NEW DELHI — By licking a dab of honey from her palm, one of India’s most prominent activists ended a nearly-16-year hunger strike on Tuesday as she pledged to run for political office in her restive home state of Manipur.
新德里——她舔了手掌上的一点蜂蜜。就这样，这位印度知名活动人士周二结束了近16年的绝食抗议，许诺在动荡的家乡曼尼普尔邦竞选公职。
The activist, Irom Chanu Sharmila, was held for years in judicial custody, refusing to eat in protest of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act of 1958, a law that shields members of the military from prosecution in conflict-ridden parts of India.
这位活动人士名为伊萝姆·恰努·莎米拉(Irom Chanu Sharmila)，遭司法羁押多年，她拒绝进食，以抗议1958年《武装力量特别权力法案》(Armed Forces Special Powers Act)。这部法案使得军人免于在印度冲突不断的部分地区遭到诉讼。
A judge granted her bail on Tuesday after she said she intended to end her strike, releasing her from the hospital where she had been force-fed through a tube in her nose to keep her alive.
在她表示自己有意结束绝食抗议之后，一名法官在周二允许她保释，让她从医院出院。在那里，为了保证她的生存，院方一直通过鼻管进行强迫喂食。
“Politics is so dirty and everybody knows it,” she told reporters at a news conference in Imphal, the state capital.
“政治太肮脏了，人尽皆知，”她在曼尼普尔邦首府因帕尔举行的新闻发布会上告诉记者。
For a woman whose fast largely spoke for her for more than 15 years, she articulated extraordinary ambition on Tuesday, announcing a run for chief minister of the conflict-scarred and corruption-ridden state of Manipur, which borders Myanmar.
逾15年里，绝食基本是莎米拉的标识。对这样一个人而言，她周二提出的抱负非同寻常。她宣布竞选曼尼普尔邦首席部长。该邦冲突不断，腐败横行，与缅甸接壤。
“I know nothing about politics and nothing about academia. My education is very, very low,” she said. But she called herself the “real embodiment of revolution,” offering herself as a rare honest political voice in the state.
“我对政治一无所知，对学术一无所知。我受的教育非常非常有限，”莎米拉说。不过，她自称是“革命的真正化身”，将自己呈现为邦里少有的诚实政治声音。
Ms. Sharmila, 44, began her hunger strike in November 2000, after soldiers killed 10 people in the village of Malom, near Imphal, in northeastern India. She was detained for attempting suicide, a crime in India.
莎米拉现年44岁，于2000年11月开始绝食抗议。当时，位于印度东北部因帕尔郊区的马洛姆村有10人死于军人之手。她遭到了拘押，理由是尝试自杀——这在印度属于犯罪行为。
Hunger strikes as a tool of nonviolent political activism are common in India, employed most famously by Mohandas K. Gandhi, who regularly fasted as a means of protest during India’s struggle for independence.
作为一种非暴力政治活动形式，绝食在印度很普遍，最出名的使用者是莫罕达斯·K·甘地(Mohandas K. Gandhi)。印度争取独立期间，他时常将禁食作为一种抗议手段。
Ms. Sharmila’s strike raised the profile of the campaign to oppose the law, and Amnesty International has called her a prisoner of conscience, but the government has not budged on repealing the legislation.
莎米拉的绝食提升了抗议这项法案的活动的曝光度。国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)称其为良心犯，不过印度政府一直没有在废止这项法案上让步。
Babloo Loitongbam, a human-rights activist and an associate of Ms. Sharmila, said that Ms. Sharmila’s decision to end the strike was an attempt to bring her fight to a new arena.
与莎米拉相识的人权活动人士巴布鲁·洛通巴姆(Babloo Loitongbam)表示，莎米拉之所以做出终结绝食的决定，是为了将自己的斗争带到一个新领域。
Dr. Lokeshwar Singh, an associate professor at Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences in Imphal, the hospital where Ms. Sharmila was held, said that because she had been fed through a nasal tube, her body could tolerate only light solid food at first before working up to full meals.
莎米拉被拘押在因帕尔的贾瓦哈拉尔·尼赫鲁医学院(Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences)。该院副教授洛克什瓦尔·辛格博士(Lokeshwar Singh)称，因为她之前一直通过鼻管进食，身体起初只能容忍不那么着实的固体食物，然后才能逐渐适应正常餐食。
Though Ms. Sharmila is considered by many the embodiment of Manipur’s conscience, some wondered if she could handle the rough-and-tumble nature of India’s politics.
尽管许多人认为莎米拉是曼尼普尔邦良心的化身，一些人怀疑她能否应付印度政治的大风大浪。
“Politics is altogether a different game,” said Pradip Phanjoubam, the editor of The Imphal Free Press. “She is not prepared. She is inexperienced in politics. Politics in India is a different ballgame. You may have right call but still you may lose.”
“政治是截然不同的游戏，”《因帕尔自由新闻》(The Imphal Free Press)的主编普拉迪普·帕乔巴姆(Pradip Phanjoubam)说。“她没有准备。她在政治上欠缺经验。印度的政治与其他地方全然不同。你可能主张正确，但还是会输。”
At Tuesday’s news conference, one reporter called her the “goddess of Manipur,” a nickname she rejected.
在周二的新闻发布会上，一名记者称呼莎米拉“曼尼普尔女神”。她并不接受这一名号。
“I don’t like that very identification,” she said. “I am a human being, and why should they remain keeping me in their own version? As a human being I feel everything. Why should they remain trying to isolate me?”
“我不喜欢这种身份，”她说。“我是个人，为什么他们要把我困在他们自己的想象中？作为一个人，我能感知所有的东西。为什么他们还是想要把我隔绝起来？”
Ms. Sharmila said that she did not know where she would live now that she has been released, but that that she might like to go to an ashram. She said she would file the necessary paperwork to run in the Manipuri assembly elections, expected to take place next year. Her next court hearing is on Aug. 23.
莎米拉表示获释后不知道自己会住在哪里，不过她也许会去一处静修之所。她说自己会提交参与曼尼普尔议会竞选所需的文件。这次选举定于明年举行。她的下次听证会则安排在8月23日。
In addition to protesting the Armed Forces Special Powers Act, Ms. Sharmila also called for the right to self-determination in Kashmir, the site of a longtime separatist movement. And she had a message for Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
除了抗议《武装力量特别权力法案》，莎米拉还呼吁赋予长期存在分离主义运动的克什米尔自决权。她还有一句话送给印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)。
“Oh, Mr. Prime Minister, you remain indulged in violence,” she said. “Without this draconian law you can connect with us, you can govern us with fatherly affection, without discrimination.”
“啊，总理先生，你一直纵容暴力，”她说。“没有这项峻法，你可以与我们相联，你可以用父爱来治理，不要歧视。”