If you’ve spent any time in Lower Manhattan and had a cappuccino at a patisserie, a 10-inch pie at a pizza place, or a pint of Guinness in a wood-paneled pub, chances are you were patronizing an establishment owned by Peter Poulakakos.
假如你曾在曼哈顿的下城区消磨时光，且在当地一家法式糕点店里喝过一杯卡布奇诺，在一家比萨饼店里吃过一块10英寸（约合25厘米）的馅饼，或在装饰着实木护墙板的酒吧里点过一品脱的健力士(Guinness)，那么，你很有可能光顾了彼得·普拉卡克斯(Peter Poulakakos)的店。
And you’d be forgiven for asking: “Who?”
如果你问出了“他是谁？”的问题，也是情有可原的。
“I call him the quiet titan,” said Jessica Lappin, the president of the Alliance for Downtown New York.
“我叫他‘静默的巨头’。”纽约下城区联盟(Alliance for Downtown New York)的主席杰西卡·拉品(Jessica Lappin)说。
Mr. Poulakakos owns no fewer than 10 restaurants south of Chambers Street, with a few more notable projects on the horizon. “We’re devoted to downtown and downtown’s devoted to us,” he said on a recent Tuesday afternoon, standing amid the bustling construction inside Pier A Harbor House, which will open this summer as a “maritime meets industrial” gallery of bars, restaurants and event spaces.
普拉卡克斯在钱伯斯街(Chambers Street)以南，拥有不下十家餐馆，还有一些更令人瞩目的项目即将完工。“我们专注于市中心的开发，而市中心也是我们的舞台。”在最近一个周二的下午，他站在A码头港口大厦(Pier A Harbor House)内繁忙的施工现场，这样说道。该大厦定于今夏开放，届时将成为一座“海事与工业风格相互碰撞”的建筑，成为酒吧、餐馆云集的地方，举办各类活动的场所。
Perched over the Hudson River on the west side of Battery Park, the 38,000-square-foot Beaux-Arts building that dates to 1886 had fallen into disrepair and sat empty and decaying for decades until Mr. Poulakakos stepped in. In 2011, with the Dermot Company, a residential developer, he signed a 25-year deal to lease the space from the Battery Park City Authority, the state agency responsible for renovating the city-owned pier, and is realizing a family dream. “My father has had Pier A on his radar since the ’70s,” he said.
这座布杂艺术(Beaux-Arts)风格的建筑，坐落在炮台公园(Battery Park)西部、哈德逊河(Hudson River)河畔，占地3.8万平方英尺（约合3530平方米），始建于1886年。在过去几十年里一直处于年久失修的闲置状态，已到了风雨飘摇的边缘，直到普拉卡克斯介入进来。2011年，普拉卡克斯和住宅开发商Dermot Company一道，与炮台公园城管理局(Battery Park City Authority)签订了为期25年的租约。A码头为纽约市所有，而炮台公园城管理局就是负责修缮该码头的政府机构。普拉卡克斯正在实现他的家族梦想。“我父亲早在70年代就已经瞄准A码头了。”他说。
Peter’s father, Harry Poulakakos, immigrated as a teenager to New York from Greece in 1956, worked in restaurants in the financial district, and in 1972, opened his own — Harry’s at Hanover Square, which served as a kind of Wall Street clubhouse. (It closed in 2003, then reopened three years later as Harry’s Cafe and Steak.) There, Peter learned the hospitality business from the ground up; his first paying job was as a delivery boy for Harry’s in 1990; and since graduating from Georgetown University with a degree in economics in 1998, he has systematically built a small empire downtown. Harry, 75, is not involved in day-to-day operations. “He’s the emperor,” according to his son. “And a great resource.”
彼得的父亲哈里·普拉卡克斯(Harry Poulakakos)在1956年从希腊移民到纽约，当时还是少年的他，在金融区的餐馆工作。1972年，他在汉诺威广场(Hanover Square)开了自己的餐馆——Harry's，它可以算作华尔街上的俱乐部会所（Harry's于2003年关闭，三年后又重新开张，更名为Harry's Cafe and Steak）。在那里，彼得从零基础开始了解了餐旅服务业；他的第一份带薪工作，就是在20世纪90年代为Harry's担任外卖员；1998年从乔治城大学(Georgetown University)的经济学专业毕业后，他在市中心系统地建立了一座小型帝国。75岁的哈里并没有参与日常运营。“他就是帝国的君主，”据他儿子说，“也是老江湖。”
Peter Poulakakos started on Stone Street. One curving block sandwiched between Pearl and South William Streets, it was the city’s first paved road and figures in the earliest days of New York. But by the end of the 20th century, when Lower Manhattan was a thriving business district, “Stone Street was crack alley,” said Mr. Poulakakos, 37. “All the buildings had those steel shutters that never opened. Security had to escort Goldman Sachs employees through the street.”
彼得·普拉卡克斯是从石街(Stone Street)起家的。那是珍珠街(Pearl Street)和南威廉街(South William Street)之间的一片蜿蜒曲折的街区，是这座城市第一条石头铺的路，在纽约市最早期的历史阶段扮演了重要角色。但是到了20世纪初，当曼哈顿下城区成为欣欣向荣的商业区后，“石街变成了一条破败的小巷，”37岁的普拉卡克斯说，“所有建筑门口都有一扇永远不开的卷帘门。高盛的员工经过这里，还得由保安护送。”
Mr. Poulakakos tends to think long term, and he had a vision. From 2002 to 2005, he opened three restaurants along Stone Street: the first, Financier Patisserie at No. 62, in 2002 (the cafe now has 10 locations in Manhattan); Ulysses, an Irish pub at No. 58, in 2003; and Adrienne’s Pizza Bar, at No. 54, in 2005. The big three, he called them. At the same time, the historic district that would become a ghost town in the evening — after the stock market closed and everyone went home — began to show signs of residential life.
普拉卡克斯倾向于从长远的角度看问题，他有先见之明。从2002到2005年，他在石街开了三家餐馆，分别是：2002年在62号开张的金融家法式糕点店(Financier Patisserie)；2003年在58号开业的爱尔兰酒吧——尤利西斯(Ulysses)；2005年在54号开业的艾德里安比萨餐厅(Adrienne’s Pizza Bar)。他把它们称为“三巨头”。与此同时，每到股市休盘，所有人都回家之后，这片本应沦为“鬼城”的历史街区开始显现出生活的气息。
According to the Alliance for Downtown New York, there were 22,900 people living south of City Hall in 2000. As the Poulakakos business has grown, so has the population. By 2013, the number of residents had swelled to 61,000, and in 2014 the supply of residential units cannot keep up with demand. (Post-recession, values are also increasing. Lower Manhattan’s median sales price was $937,500 in 2013, up 10 percent from the previous year, according to the Alliance for Downtown New York.)
根据纽约下城联盟的调查，2000年，有2.29万人居住在市政厅以南。随着普拉卡克斯的店铺开始扩张，当地的人口也在增长。到了2013年，居民数量膨胀到了6.1万人；2014年，住宅已经供不应求（经济衰退结束后，房价也在上涨。根据纽约下城区联盟的调查，2013年，曼哈顿下城的房屋售价中值为937500美元[约合人民币583万元]，比2012年上涨了10%）。
Did restaurants pave the way for the residential boom, or did the growing population fuel the success of the hospitality business? “It’s the chicken and the egg,” Ms. Lappin said. Today you’ll find the pedestrian-only street full of cafe and picnic tables and teeming with people, from young families to tourists fresh from the nearby 9/11 Memorial.
究竟是餐馆带动了住宅热，还是人口的增长推动了餐旅服务业的成功？“这是个鸡生蛋、蛋生鸡的问题，”拉品说。如今，你会发现步行街边开满了咖啡馆，摆满了野餐桌。行人摩肩接踵，既有年轻的家庭，也有刚在附近参观完9/11国家纪念博物馆的游客。
“Stone Street has had a tremendous impact,” said Mr. Poulakakos, who is lanky and unassuming in brown leather Pumas and a cashmere V-neck sweater. “We opened Ulysses with a residential focus, a super pub for people coming in on a Sunday night. It was unheard of then. Now we’re feeling the effects. That seven-day community that we wanted is here.”
“石街发挥了很大的影响力，”普拉卡克斯说。他的身材颀长、举止谦恭，穿着棕色彪马皮鞋和开司米V领毛衣，“我们开‘尤利西斯’，就是以居民为着眼点，要将它打造成一家超级酒吧，吸引人们在周六晚上前来光顾。这在当时是前所未有的，而现在我们感觉到效果了。‘尤利西斯’已经吸引了我们想要的客户群体。”
Danny McDonald, an Irishman who is a partner in five Poulakakos operations, including Ulysses and the throwback bar the Dead Rabbit that opened in 2013, has been working with the young restaurateur for 12 years. Mr. Poulakakos also owns the buildings that house those two establishments. “Pete has the patience of Job,” he said, which may have given him the fortitude to expand his vision beyond a cobblestone street to a broad swath of Lower Manhattan, even in the face of financial crisis and natural disaster. (Progress was set back months at Pier A Harbor House, which Mr. McDonald is overseeing, when it suffered more than $4 million in water damage from Hurricane Sandy.)
丹尼·麦克唐纳(Danny McDonald)是爱尔兰人，他和普拉卡克斯合伙开了五家店，包括“尤利西斯”和2013年开张的复古酒吧“死兔”(Dead Rabbit)。他和这名年轻的餐馆老板已经合作了12年。普拉卡克斯还拥有其中两家店面所在的楼盘。“皮特有着约伯(Job)的耐性，”麦克唐纳说。或许正是这一点，给了他执着的韧劲，将眼界从一条石子路放宽到了更广阔的曼哈顿下城区，即使在面临金融危机和自然灾害时也毫不动摇（在麦克唐纳监工的A码头港口大厦，工程进度曾经连续数月陷入迟滞，当时飓风“桑迪”造成的危害，使项目损失了400多万美元[约合人民币2488万元]）。
Mr. Poulakakos, married with two young sons and living in Battery Park City, says he does not do business in a conventional way. Like the owner of a professional sports team, he finds and cultivates talent to put into different positions and strengthen the franchise. For example, he enlisted Jordi Valles, a chef from Barcelona who has trained with the greats of Spain, to oversee food — from oyster bar to 100-seat dining room — at Pier A and spearhead Le District, Mr. Poulakakos’s 25,000-square-foot market that’s set to open in the Brookfield Place complex (formerly the World Financial Center) by spring 2015. Just in time to provide the discerning creative types moving into offices at 1 World Trade Center with a proper fishmonger and good selection of artisanal cheese.
普拉卡克斯已婚，育有两名幼子，住在炮台公园城。他说自己不按常规的套路做生意。和职业体育队的老板一样，他寻找、培养人才，并将他们安排到合适的岗位，以增强企业的实力。比如说，他聘请了师从西班牙大师的巴塞罗那厨师霍尔迪·巴列(Jordi Valles)，来掌管A码头和Le District的食品——从牡蛎酒吧到有100个座位的餐厅，都在他的管控范围内。Le District位于布鲁克菲尔德广场(Brookfield Place)建筑群（原世界金融中心[World Financial Center]），是一座面积2.5万平方英尺（约合2323平方米）的市场，预计将于2015年春开放。届时正好可以给搬进世界金融中心1号的那些眼光高、创造力强的人士提供优质的鲜鱼和手工奶酪。
Rounding out the latter-day big three — with Pier A and Le District — is the Battery Maritime Building. You’ll be forgiven for asking: “The what?”
除了A码头和Le District以外，“新三巨头”中的最后一个是巴特里海事大厦(Battery Maritime Building)。如果你觉得难以置信，这也在情理之中。
Even native New Yorkers have overlooked the grand arches and detailed metalwork of the 1909 Beaux-Arts building at the southern end of Manhattan’s East Side that sits between the heliport and the Staten Island Ferry terminal. It’s been boarded up, marked with graffiti, and only used at street level as a homely port to Governors Island. Inside, it’s a beautiful relic the size of a football field. Already eight years in the process, Mr. Poulakakos is renovating the place with the Dermot Company. Soon it will have a great hall on the ground floor for public use, a 61-room hotel on the second floor (some with balconies overlooking New York Harbor), and a modern glass restaurant added to the top.
就连纽约本地人也忽视了它宏伟的拱门，和繁复的金属工艺。这座布杂风格的艺术建筑始建于1909年，位于曼哈顿东城南端，坐落在机场和史泰登岛渡轮码头(Staten Island Ferry terminal)之间。如今，它的门窗已被封上，墙面满是涂鸦，平常只作为普通的港口使用，开通了前往总督岛(Governors Island)的渡轮。大厦内部是足球场大小的壮观遗址。普拉卡克斯正在和Dermot Company一起修缮这座建筑，工程已经开展了八年。很快，大厦一楼就会建起一座宏伟的大厅，供公众使用；二楼则将开设一家酒店，配备61间客房（有些客房带有阳台，可以俯瞰纽约港的景观）；而顶层将开设一家装饰着玻璃墙的现代风格餐厅。
Somehow, while building a multimillion-dollar business, the Poulakakos family has managed to create an ecosystem that will save more than a few city landmarks. The son credits the father. “For him,” the younger Mr. Poulakakos said, “it’s always been: This is what downtown needs.”
普拉卡克斯家族一边开拓着几百万美元的业务，一边设法开创了一个生态体系。在这个体系中，得到拯救的城市地标建筑将不在少数。普拉卡克斯是这么称赞他父亲的，“对他而言，”普拉卡克斯说，“心里想的总是：这是市中心所需要的。”