’Tis the season to be jolly — or, at any rate, to spend a lot of time in shopping malls. It is also, traditionally, a time to reflect on the plight of those less fortunate than oneself — for example, the person on the other side of that cash register.
这是欢乐的时节——或者至少是在商场里耗去大把时间的时节。按照传统，人们此刻还应该思考不及自己幸运的那些人所面临的困境——比如站在收银台另一边的人。
The last few decades have been tough for many American workers, but especially hard on those employed in retail trade — a category that includes both the sales clerks at your local Walmart and the staff at your local McDonald’s. Despite the lingering effects of the financial crisis, America is a much richer country than it was 40 years ago. But the inflation-adjusted wages of nonsupervisory workers in retail trade — who weren’t particularly well paid to begin with — have fallen almost 30 percent since 1973.
过去几十年间，很多美国劳动者的日子一直不好过，零售业雇员的处境更是尤为艰难——其中包括你们当地沃尔玛(Walmart)的售货员以及你们当地麦当劳(McDonald’s)的员工。虽然受到金融危机的持续影响，但美国还是比40年前富裕得多。可是，从1973年至今，去掉通胀的因素，零售业非管理人员的工资——他们本来就赚得就不多——几乎下降了30%。
So can anything be done to help these workers, many of whom depend on food stamps — if they can get them — to feed their families, and who depend on Medicaid — again, if they can get it — to provide essential health care? Yes. We can preserve and expand food stamps, not slash the program the way Republicans want. We can make health reform work, despite right-wing efforts to undermine the program.
零售业的普通劳动者，很多都要靠食品券来养家糊口——前提是他们拿得到；还要靠联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)来支付医疗费——前提是他们可以享有。那么，我们能做点什么来帮助这些劳动者吗？当然能。我们可以保留并进一步推广食品券项目，而不是像共和党人所希望的那样大肆削减这一项目；我们可以让医改计划顺利推行，尽管右翼力量一直设法破坏这一计划。
And we can raise the minimum wage.
此外，我们还可以提高最低工资标准。
First, a few facts. Although the national minimum wage was raised a few years ago, it’s still very low by historical standards, having consistently lagged behind both inflation and average wage levels. Who gets paid this low minimum? By and large, it’s the man or woman behind the cash register: almost 60 percent of U.S. minimum-wage workers are in either food service or sales. This means, by the way, that one argument often invoked against any attempt to raise wages — the threat of foreign competition — won’t wash here: Americans won’t drive to China to pick up their burgers and fries.
先来看一些事实。联邦最低工资标准曾在数年前得到过提高，但以历史标准来衡量，仍然是非常低的，一直落后于通胀和平均工资水平。拿最低工资的是哪些人？大体上就是站在收银台后面的男男女女：在美国，拿最低工资的劳动者近60%都来自食品服务领域，或者在从事销售工作。顺便说一下，这意味着反对提高工资标准的人经常提及的一个理由——即海外竞争者的威胁——是站不住脚的：美国人不会开车去中国买汉堡和炸薯条。
Still, even if international competition isn’t an issue, can we really help workers simply by legislating a higher wage? Doesn’t that violate the law of supply and demand? Won’t the market gods smite us with their invisible hand? The answer is that we have a lot of evidence on what happens when you raise the minimum wage. And the evidence is overwhelmingly positive: hiking the minimum wage has little or no adverse effect on employment, while significantly increasing workers’ earnings.
然而，即便国际竞争不是问题，我们仅仅通过以法律形式确立更高的工资标准，就真的能帮助劳动者吗？这样做是否会违背供求规律？市场之神会不会用看不见的手狠狠地打击我们？答：关于提高最低工资标准时会出现什么情况，我们掌握了大量的证据。而这些证据是绝对正面的：提高最低工资标准对就业没有负面影响或者影响甚微，同时还能让劳动者的收入大幅增长。
It’s important to understand how good this evidence is. Normally, economic analysis is handicapped by the absence of controlled experiments. For example, we can look at what happened to the U.S. economy after the Obama stimulus went into effect, but we can’t observe an alternative universe in which there was no stimulus, and compare the results.
弄清楚这证据到底有多珍贵是十分重要的。通常情况下，可控实验的缺乏会让经济分析存在一定的局限性。举例来说，我们可以看到奥巴马的经济刺激计划生效之后美国经济有哪些表现，但我们却无法观察到如果没有经济刺激计划局面会是什么样的，也无法拿两种结果作比较。
When it comes to the minimum wage, however, we have a number of cases in which a state raised its own minimum wage while a neighboring state did not. If there were anything to the notion that minimum wage increases have big negative effects on employment, that result should show up in state-to-state comparisons. It doesn’t.
不过，谈到最低工资标准，我们手里的很多案例都牵涉到一个州提高了最低工资，而邻州并未如此的情况。假如提高最低工资对就业有巨大负面影响的理念有任何合理的地方，那么这种影响就应该在州与州之间的对比中体现出来。但它并没有。
So a minimum-wage increase would help low-paid workers, with few adverse side effects. And we’re talking about a lot of people. Early this year the Economic Policy Institute estimated that an increase in the national minimum wage to $10.10 from its current $7.25 would benefit 30 million workers. Most would benefit directly, because they are currently earning less than $10.10 an hour, but others would benefit indirectly, because their pay is in effect pegged to the minimum — for example, fast-food store managers who are paid slightly (but only slightly) more than the workers they manage.
因此，提高最低工资标准既可以帮助低薪劳动者，又几乎不会产生什么负面影响。而且我们所谈论的是一个庞大的群体。经济政策研究所(Economic Policy Institute)于今年早些时候估计，把联邦最低工资标准从当前的7.25美元（约合44元人民币）提高到10.1美元，将惠及3000万劳动者。大多数人将直接受益，因为他们每小时的收入目前低于10.1美元；其他人将间接受益，因为他们的工资实际上是与最低工资标准挂钩的——比如快餐店经理，他们的工资比他们所管理的员工略高(但也只高一点点)。
Now, many economists have a visceral dislike of anything that sounds like price-fixing, even if the evidence strongly indicates that it would have positive effects. Some of these skeptics oppose doing anything to help low-wage workers. Others argue that we should subsidize, not regulate — in particular, that we should expand the Earned Income Tax Credit (E.I.T.C.), an existing program that does indeed provide significant aid to low-income working families. And for the record, I’m all for an expanded E.I.T.C.
如今，许多经济学家打心眼儿里厌恶听起来有着价格操纵意味的东西，即便相关证据有力地表明它会带来积极的影响。在这类怀疑论者中间，有些人反对采取任何措施帮助低薪劳动者。其他一些人则认为，我们应该发放补贴，而不是做出明确规定——尤其应该拓展现有的劳动所得税抵扣计划(Earned Income Tax Credit，简称EITC)，该计划实际上给低收入工薪家庭提供了大量补助。请注意，我绝对支持拓展EITC。
But there are, it turns out, good technical reasons to regard the minimum wage and the E.I.T.C. as complements — mutually supportive policies, not substitutes. Both should be increased. Unfortunately, given the political realities, there is no chance whatsoever that a bill increasing aid to the working poor would pass Congress.
但事实证明，把最低工资和EITC看作互补品——即相互支持的政策——而非替代品，是有充分的现实原因的。两者都应该得到提高。但遗憾的是，鉴于当前的政治现实，国会不可能通过任何一个给贫困的劳动者增加补助的议案。
An increase in the minimum wage, on the other hand, just might happen, thanks to overwhelming public support. This support doesn’t come just from Democrats or even independents; strong majorities of Republicans (57 percent) and self-identified conservatives (59 percent) favor an increase.
另一方面，最低工资标准的提高却有可能成为现实，因为得到了公众的普遍支持。这种支持不只来自民主党人乃至无党派人士；大多数共和党人(57%)以及自认为是保守派的人士(59%)都表示赞成。
In short, raising the minimum wage would help many Americans, and might actually be politically possible. Let’s give it a try.
简而言之，提高最低工资标准可以惠及很多美国人，在政治上其实也是可行的。就让我们尝试一下吧。