It was in 2007 that Juergen Perthold, an engineer living in Anderson, S.C., strapped a tiny camera of his own design to the collar of his cat, Mr. Lee. When the images Mr. Lee captured while roaming around their neighborhood were posted online, they went, predictably, viral. Mr. Lee received a flurry of attention from the international media and became the star of a documentary, “CatCam: The Movie,” which made the film festival rounds in 2012 and even won a few awards.
那是在2007年，南卡罗来纳州安德森市(Anderson)的一位工程师于尔根·佩尔托德(Juergen Perthold)把自己设计的一台微型相机绑到了他的猫“李先生”(Mr. Lee)的项圈上。李先生在社区里游荡时拍下的照片被放到网上后，毫不意外地一炮而红。它不仅成为了国际媒体的焦点，还在纪录片《猫用相机：一部电影》(CatCam: The Movie)中闪亮登场。这部电影进入2012年的电影节，甚至还摘得了几个奖项。
Mr. Perthold has since refined his tiny camera, which was designed to record video or still photographs at programmable intervals, and has sold nearly 5,000 to pet owners in 35 countries, many of whom send their images back to Mr. Perthold, who displays them on his website. For Mr. Lee is not the only pet photographer, and his CatCam is not the only pet-oriented photographic device.
此后，佩尔托德改良了他的微型相机，这款相机可以用来拍摄视频，也可设定为每隔一段时间拍摄静态照片。佩尔托德向35个国家的宠物主人销售了近5000台相机，其中许多人将照片反馈给他，他则将这些照片发布在了自己的网站上。“李先生”并不是唯一一名宠物摄影师，它的猫用相机也不是唯一一款面向宠物的摄影设备。
Last week, GoPro, a camera company made famous by surfers and other athletes who clip on its waterproof miniature Heros to record their adventures, introduced its own version: Fetch, a harness and camera mount designed for dogs. For years, pet owners had been rigging Heros to attach to their pets; perhaps you’ve seen the YouTube video of that surfing pig? (GoPro, a 10-year-old company that enjoyed a stunning I.P.O. in June, couldn’t say how many Heros have been used “off-label” in this way, but it did share its 2013 revenue: $985 million, up from $150,000 a decade ago. And GoPro’s spokesman was quick to remind this reporter that last year Americans spent nearly $60 billion on their pets.)
GoPro是一家由冲浪爱好者等运动员追捧起来的相机公司。运动员们喜欢使用该公司的微型防水相机Hero，记录他们的探险历程。上周（8月最后一周——译注），GoPro推出了自己的宠物摄影装备：Fetch，一款专为宠物狗设计的胸背带及相机托架。多年来，宠物主人们一直在给自家宠物佩戴Hero相机；说不定你们已经在YouTube上看过那只冲浪猪的视频？（创立已有十年的GoPro公司，今年6月的IPO表现不俗。公司方面也说不清究竟有多少台Hero相机被客户以这种方式“误用”了，不过它还是给出了2013年的收入数据：9.85亿美元[约合人民币60.5亿元]。而在十年前，其年收入还仅有15万美元[约合人民币92万元]。此外，GoPro的发言人还不失时机地提醒笔者，去年美国人在他们的宠物身上花费了600亿美元[约合人民币3688亿元]。）
As programmable digital cameras get smaller and cheaper, the universe of pet, uh, journalism — or is it fine art? — has exploded. Scientists on both sides of the Atlantic have been using these technologies to learn more about the habits of all manner of animals, including house cats. The work of Leo, a cat from Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, has been made into a poster. Cooper, from Seattle, has had a gallery show of his work, which has also been collected into a book. A collaborative (what else to call them?) of Swiss cows posts their oeuvre at cowcam.ch.
随着可编程数码相机变得越来越小、越来越便宜，宠物的，呃，还有新闻（或说美术？）的宇宙发生了大爆炸。大西洋两岸的科学家们，一直在运用这些技术来了解各种动物的习性，包括家猫的习性。一只来自加拿大西北地区(Northwest Territories)首府耶罗纳夫(Yellowknife)的猫里奥(Leo)，它的作品已经被做成了海报。而西雅图的库珀(Cooper)曾经举办过一届画廊展，来展示它的作品，那些作品还被收录到了一本书中。还有一个瑞士奶牛协作社（不然还能称之为什么呢？），将它们的毕生之作发布到了cowcam.ch网站上。
Inevitably, copyright disputes have arisen over who exactly owns the images taken by nonhumans. As The Washington Post and others reported last month, David Slater, a British photographer whose camera was snatched up and passed around by macaque monkeys while he was in Indonesia in 2011, has been sparring with various media outlets, including Wikimedia, over their use of the winsome “selfie” one monkey shot with Mr. Slater’s camera.
这些人类之外的摄影师所拍摄的照片，不可避免地引起了版权纠纷。2011年，英国摄影师戴维·斯莱特(David Slater)在印度尼西亚期间，被几只猕猴抢走了相机，还将它传来传去，其中一只猴子拍了张迷人的“自拍”。这张照片被Wikimedia等各类媒体登载出来。据《华盛顿邮报》等媒体上个月报道，斯莱特和上述媒体针对那张自拍照片的使用问题发生了争议。
Boing Boing, the technology and culture webzine, helpfully weighed in last week by reminding readers that United States copyright law avers that works by “nature, animals or plants,” along with those produced by “divine or supernatural beings,” cannot be registered.
上周，科技与文化网站“波音波音”(Boing Boing)提供了一个有价值的线索，它提醒读者，美国版权法规定，“自然、动物或植物”以及“神或超自然生灵”的作品不可登记版权。
In any case, this month, “PetCam: The World Through the Lens of Our Four-Legged Friends,” by Chris Keeney, a human photographer, will be published by Princeton Architectural Press, perhaps the first-ever book of pet photographs from an established publishing company. (In other pet book news, the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, the home of the wildly popular Internet Cat Video Festival, is collaborating on a coffee-table book that will explore “the impact of cat videos on art and culture,” according to a news release, and will be financed with a so-called “Catstarter” campaign, but we are getting a bit off topic.)
无论如何，这个月，人类摄影师克里斯·基尼(Chris Keeney)的新书《宠物用相机：我们的四腿朋友镜头下的世界》(PetCam: The World Through the Lens of Our Four-Legged Friends)将由普林斯顿建筑出版社(Princeton Architectural Press)出版，这或许是老牌出版公司推出的第一部宠物摄影集（宠物图书领域的其它新闻包括：人气火爆的“网络猫咪视频节”[Internet Cat Video Festival]的主办方——明尼阿波利斯市的沃克艺术中心[Walker Art Center]正在合作出版一部“咖啡桌读本”。根据新闻发布会上的消息，这本书将探索“猫咪视频对艺术和文化的影响”，所需资金将通过一个所谓的“Catstarter”活动筹集。不过，我们有点跑题了）。
Featuring the work of 20 critters, including a cow and a chicken, “PetCam,” the book, was inspiration enough for this reporter to investigate the artistic practice of her own cat, Tiger, while on vacation in Rhode Island. Because he is an adventurous guy with fine tree-climbing skills, admirable speed and a hunter’s precision (requiescat in pace, rodentia), I had high hopes for our project, though I did also anticipate a high gore factor, like Peter Beard’s work in Africa. But Tiger vanished the week of the experiment.
《宠物用相机》的“供稿摄影师”有20名，包括一头奶牛和一只鸡。受到这本书启发，笔者在罗德岛度假期间，也试图探索一下自家猫咪小虎(Tiger)的艺术实践。因为它是一个富有冒险精神的小伙子，爬树技巧高超、行动速度一流，有着猎人般的敏锐（安息吧，啮齿动物们），我对这次的项目抱有很大希望，只不过我也做好了上刀山下火海的准备，就像彼得·比尔德(Peter Beard)在非洲拍摄照片时所做的那样。但是，小虎在试验开始的当周就消失不见了。
Cause and effect? Mr. Keeney, the “PetCam” author, wondered. He said his own cat, Alice, had disappeared soon after he clipped a camera on her collar, returning triumphantly a few hours later without it. He eventually recovered the camera under his deck, and “the battery was dead, because Alice had taken 2,000 pictures of the underside of the deck before she scratched it off her head,” he said. “I would not put a camera on an animal that’s not used to having something around their neck.”
这其中的因果关系是什么？《猫用相机》的作者基尼思考着这个问题。他说，他给自家猫咪爱丽丝(Alice)在项圈上拴了相机之后，爱丽丝很快就消失不见了。过了几小时，它得意洋洋地跑回来，项圈上的相机没了。最终，他在自家露台底下找到了相机，“电池没电了，因为爱丽丝拍了2000张露台底部的照片，最后把相机从脑袋上抓了下来，”他说，“要是小动物不习惯脖子上有东西，我就不会在它身上安相机了。”
Yet Tiger had worn Mr. Lee’s CatCam a few weeks earlier without incident, clipped to a harness I had bought years ago, when briefly (foolishly) entertaining the idea that we might be able to walk Tiger, never the happiest of indoor cats, like a dog when we were in New York City. The harness he tolerated; the leash, and the scrum of Second Avenue, not so much.
但是，小虎在失踪前已经戴了好几个星期的猫用相机，一直安然无事。相机就夹在我多年前给它买的背带上，那阵子我们还住在纽约，当时我觉得小虎闷在家里并不开心，或许可以把它带出去遛一遛，就像遛狗一样。于是我短暂（而又愚蠢）地把它带了出去。背带它忍了，但是锚链和第二大道上的人流，它就不怎么能忍了。
With Tiger missing, I scrambled to find other artists in the neighborhood. After all, I had the gear, a GoPro Hero and Mr. Lee’s CatCam, and Tony Cenicola, a New York Times photographer, had driven up for the project. In an effort to capture more than one point of view, the sort of range Mr. Keeney has in his book, I called upon a tortoise, a pig and a miniature schnauzer. How might their personalities and appetites affect their photographs? Would they even tolerate such shenanigans?
小虎失踪后，我在社区里迫不及待地寻找着其它艺术家。毕竟，我已经有了设备——一台GoPro的Hero和“李先生”那款猫用相机；而且，《纽约时报》的摄影师托尼·塞尼克拉(Tony Cenicola)也跑过来跟拍项目进展了。为了捕捉多个拍摄视角，就像基尼在他的新书中所做的那样，我找到一只乌龟、一头猪和一只迷你雪纳瑞。它们的个性和胃口将给照片带来怎样的影响？它们会不会连这种恶作剧也忍受不了呢？ 
•
Milton is a female gopher tortoise, probably in her mid-50s. George Jacobs, 52, a curator and dealer of outsider and self-taught art, bought her at a pet store when they were both about 10. She is a threatened species; during the Depression, gophers were known as Hoover Chickens, because people would roast and eat them. Watching Milton’s lovely, ancient face and her strangely graceful, ratcheting gait, you wince at the thought. Tony used wall putty to anchor our GoPro Hero to her back, after removing it from its waterproof case. We had tried and failed to program the CatCam, which is slightly smaller and less expensive ($49 as opposed to $200), but whose functions are less than intuitive. Even Tony was stymied. Mr. Keeney reported similar difficulties, though he was able, in the end, to make his work. (He used both the GoPro Hero and the CatCam, but there are myriad other options: If you Google “petcam,” you’ll see a range of devices at various price points.)
弥尔顿(Milton)是一只雌性沙龟，可能已经50多岁了。它的主人乔治·雅各布斯(George Jacobs)现年52岁，是一名域外艺术策展人和交易商。他从宠物店买下这只沙龟的时候，他们的年龄都在十岁左右。这只沙龟是个濒危物种；在大萧条期间，沙龟被称为“胡佛鸡”(Hoover Chicken)，因为人们会烤食它们。看着弥尔顿可爱、古朴的脸蛋和慢吞吞的优雅步态，你就会觉得，烤食这种动物是一件可怕的事情。托尼将我们的GoPro Hero相机从防水外壳里取出后，用墙腻子把它固定在弥尔顿的背部。我们试过为猫用相机编程，但失败了。它虽然比Hero的体积稍小、价格也更低（一个是49美元[约合人民币301元]，另一个则要200美元[约合人民币1228元]），但是功能并不直观，就连托尼也感到棘手。基尼说他遇到了类似的难题，只不过他最终还是完成了作品（GoPro Hero和猫用相机他都采用了，不过还有无数其它选择：如果你在谷歌上搜索“petcam”[宠物相机]，就可以找到价位各异的各种设备）。
Milton posed, as regal as an elephant, amid Mr. Jacobs’s children’s blocks, which were strewn on the floor of his bright, sparsely decorated house. We all watched, mesmerized, as she pivoted, yawned and stalked across the carpet to her box and a pile of lettuce, which she scarfed down in great gulps. The GoPro never wavered.
弥尔顿的仪态就像大象一样，颇具王者风范。它游走在雅各布斯家里散布在地板上的儿童积木间。屋子里光线充足，装修风格简约。我们都痴迷地看着它转身、打哈欠，昂首阔步地走过地毯，走到它的饲养盒和一堆莴苣边，大口大口地吃莴苣。而GoPro从来没有晃动过。
“The thing that attracted me to tortoises when I was a kid was that they were so peaceful,” Mr. Jacobs said finally. “She has been a great companion.”
“我小时候之所以迷上了乌龟，是因为它们很安静，”雅各布斯最后说，“弥尔顿一直是个很好的玩伴。”
Are there outsider, or self-taught, photographers? Certainly, Mr. Jacobs said, mentioning Vivian Maier, the French-born Chicago nanny and street photographer who died in 2009, leaving behind thousands of negatives. Milton’s photographs, not surprisingly, were rather solemn: many iterations of plastic blocks, oak flooring and lettuce, her stately head at midframe.
有没有外行的、或者自学成才的摄影师呢？雅各布斯表示，当然有。她提到了薇薇安·梅尔(Vivian Maier)。梅尔出生于法国，在芝加哥做保姆和街头摄影师，在2009年去世后，留下了成千上万张底片。毫无悬念的是，弥尔顿拍摄的照片都很严肃：大多数照片的内容是塑料积木、橡木地板和莴苣，镜头中间则是弥尔顿高贵的头颅。
Earlier, we had met Mrs. Grima, a 4-year-old potbellied pig who belongs to James O. Coleman, a New Orleans native in town for a few weeks. The pig was named after a historic property in Mr. Coleman’s hometown, the Hermann-Grima House, and she is definitely a creature of some gravitas, if lacking in obvious charm.
在此之前，我们还见到了格里玛(Grima)，一头肚皮圆滚滚的四岁猪。它的主人詹姆斯·O·柯乐曼(James O. Coleman)是新奥尔良本地人，来城里待了几个星期。柯乐曼的猪得名于他老家的一座历史建筑——赫尔曼-格里玛公馆(Hermann-Grima House)。她肯定是个有分量的角色，只不过缺少一点外在美。
“She’s a terrible pet,” Mr. Coleman said, “food-driven and self-centered.” He nonetheless proudly walks her with his dogs most afternoons, drawing crowds along Bellevue Avenue near his apartment. Since pigs have no neck, she wore a kind of harness around her shoulders, and it was tricky to keep the GoPro aloft. (Tony used rubber bands and twist-ties, and his constant ministrations irritated Mrs. Grima, who head-butted him at regular intervals.) When we took her for a spin in front of the Marble House, Alva Vanderbilt’s 19th-century McMansion here, one gobsmacked tourist asked, “Is that a pig?”
“它是个可怕的宠物，”柯乐曼说，“只知道吃，而且以自我为中心。”但是在大多数下午时间，他依然会自豪地把它和家里的狗狗们一起带出去，沿着公寓附近的百乐威大道(Bellevue Avenue) 遛一遛，吸引一大群人来围观。由于猪没有脖子，它就在肩膀部位围上一种背带，而GoPro在上面很难支撑起来。（托尼用上了橡皮筋和扎口带，他总是调整相机，把格里玛激怒了，于是格里玛每隔一段时间就会去用头拱他）。有一次，我们把它带到了阿尔瓦·范德堡(Alva Vanderbilt)在19世纪的麦克豪宅前（McMansion，形容一些庞大而突兀的住宅，一味求大却没有特色，还被不断大量复制，就像快餐汉堡一样——译注）兜风。这座豪宅名为Marble House（美国镀金时代众多富豪庄园之一，由著名建筑师设计师莫里斯·理查德·亨特[Richard Morris Hunt]设计，据说灵感来自凡尔赛宫的小特里阿侬[Petit Trianon]——译注）。当时，一名目瞪口呆的游客问：“那是一头猪吗？”
Monique Coleman, Mr. Coleman’s wife, was intrigued by Mrs. Grima’s “hoggy brain” framing the Marble House. “She is capturing a symbol of Gilded Age excess and consumption, the very thing that makes Newport worth visiting.” Social commentary, indeed.
柯乐曼的妻子莫尼克·柯乐曼(Monique Coleman)被格里玛小姐那“浑圆的大脑袋”与Marble House的合影吸引住了。“它捕捉到了镀金时代物质过剩和消费过度的象征，这是纽波特(Newport)值得一游的亮点所在。”无疑，她这番话属于社会评论的范畴。
•
Later that evening, we visited Harvey, 9, a miniature schnauzer with a winning, eager personality, who lives with Rufus, a 13-year-old cairn terrier, and Diana Oswald, a book agent and the author of “Debutantes: When Glamour Was Born,” a photography book published last year by Rizzoli. With the GoPro dangling from his collar, Harvey took a burn around his front yard, and then we brought him to the beach and let him rip on his extendable leash.
当天晚些时候，我们拜访了一只九岁的迷你雪纳瑞哈维(Harvey)。它很讨人喜欢，对人很殷勤。和它生活在一起的，是一条13岁的凯恩犬鲁弗斯(Rufus)，还有戴安娜·奥斯瓦尔德(Diana Oswald)。奥斯瓦尔德是一名图书经纪人，曾出版《名媛成人礼：魅力诞生之时》(Debutantes: When Glamour Was Born)。这是一本摄影集，去年由里佐利出版社(Rizzoli)推出。由于GoPro摇摇晃晃地悬挂在项圈上，哈维在前院附近拍摄的照片效果并不好；后来，我们把它带到海滩上，让它脱离了伸缩牵引绳。
What sort of work did Ms. Oswald think he’d produce? Photojournalism, definitely, she said, like a National Geographic contributor, “all his travels and where he explores.”
奥斯瓦尔德认为哈维会拍出什么样的照片呢？她说，当然是摄影新闻，就像《国家地理》的供稿人那样，拍下“它所有的旅程和冒险地。”
One thing you need to know about animal photography is that editing is a significant part of the endeavor. We programmed our cameras at 10-second intervals for Mrs. Grima and Harvey, and 30 seconds for Milton; our animals shot, on average, for about an hour. That means we had thousands of images to comb through. I say we, but it was Tony who put in the time, harvesting about 30 usable photos from each session. Mr. Keeney, for his part, said he spent weeks editing for his own book. “After a while, I became kind of jaded and burned out,” he admitted.
关于动物摄影，有件事你需要知道，那就是后期编辑占据了摄影工作的很大一部分。我们给格里玛和哈维设定的拍照时间间隔都是10秒，给弥尔顿设的是30秒；几只动物的平均拍照时间大约是一小时。这就意味着，我们有成千上万张照片需要梳理。虽然我说的是“我们”，但真正花费时间的人是托尼，每轮拍摄下来，大约可以收获30张可用的照片。至于基尼，他表示自己花费了数周时间，编辑自己的摄影书。“弄了一会儿，我就觉得有些筋疲力竭了。”他坦言道。
But art, of course, may be more process than product. I asked James Danziger, a photography gallerist, to critique our project. As he pointed out, the animals didn’t choose what images were taken; the cameras merely captured what they were focused on. “To be clear, we’re not criticizing the animals’ artistry so much as critiquing their eye,” he said. “Anyway, there’s not a lot we can say about the first two, the tortoise and the pig.”
不过，在艺术领域，过程或许比产品更重要，这是理所当然的。詹姆斯·丹齐格(James Danziger)是一家摄影画廊的经营者，我邀请他对我们的项目发表评论。正如他所指出的那样，动物不会选择拍摄什么画面；相机捕捉到的只是它们聚焦的东西。“事先说明，我们在评论动物的艺术才能时，也无异于是在评论它们的眼光，”他说，“总之，关于前两种动物——乌龟和猪，我们没有太多可说的。”
Mr. Danziger noted that Milton’s interests seemed to be in interiors and food. He thought she might have a career shooting for shelter magazines. As for Mrs. Grima, Mr. Danziger thought he detected the influence of Lee Friedlander’s shadow self-portraits. “I also think her use of the top of her head against the various scenes shows a more sophisticated understanding of the history of photography,” he said. “I think she would benefit from going to art school to continue her interests.”
丹齐格注意到，弥尔顿的兴趣似乎集中在室内装潢和食物上。他认为，它或许可以为家居杂志摄影，进而开创一番事业。至于格里玛，丹齐格认为，他在它的作品中看到了李·弗瑞兰德(Lee Friedlander)的阴暗自拍照的影响。“我还觉得，它在各种景观照中露出自己的头顶，说明它对摄影的历史有着更复杂的理解，”他说，“我觉得它上艺术学校深造一番，会很有好处。”
Harvey’s work was in a class by itself. Marveling at his abstract and representational photos — the mesmerizing swoops of color; the archly composed images of his roommate, Rufus, or a yellow fire hydrant, with his own tongue and beard at the top of the frame — Tony wondered how he might use a GoPro to similar effect in his own practice.
哈维的作品则是自成一派。托尼惊叹于它那些抽象和具象的照片——画面中有着迷人的颜色碰撞；“室友”鲁弗斯亦庄亦谐的形象，或者一个黄色的消防栓，哈维在照片上方露出自己的舌头和胡子——托尼琢磨着怎样才能通过一台GoPro，在自己的摄影过程中制造出类似的效果。
Mr. Danziger noted influences like Mark Cohen, a street photographer known for his truncated view of human bodies who came to prominence in the early 1970s and whose work Mr. Danziger showed recently. Furthermore, he said, “Harvey’s interest in blurry motion seems to refer to a number of photographs taken by Paul Fusco in his famous RFK funeral train series. Using motion to give a sense of the speed of the journey is something Harvey is definitely employing. He also has a sense of humor. I believe he’s referring to Duchamp’s urinal with his fire hydrant images. Harvey is gallery-ready. All he has to do is find the right one.”
丹齐格注意到，哈维的作品受到了马克·柯恩(Mark Cohen)的影响。柯恩是一名20世纪70年代初声名鹊起的街头摄影师。他拍人物照时，不喜欢把人的头部拍进去。丹齐格最近开始在画廊里展出他的作品。此外，丹齐格表示：“哈维对动态模糊的场景很感兴趣，这似乎是在影射保罗·弗斯科(Pau Fusco)在R·F·肯尼迪的灵车上拍摄的一系列名作。哈维肯定采用了通过动态场景来制造速度感的技巧。此外，哈维还挺有幽默感。我相信，它那几张消防栓的照片是在影射杜尚(Duchamp)的马桶。哈维的作品已经达到了画廊水准，它只需找到一家适合的画廊就行了。”
It’s definitely an emerging genre, Mr. Keeney said. Fred, his Chihuahua-terrier mix, now has his own Instagram account, thanks to Mr. Keeney’s daughter. “PetCam is going to be the phrase that describes it,” he continued. “People are gaga about their pets. This activity will ultimately strengthen that bond, because ultimately it’s a collaboration.”
基尼表示，这绝对是一种新兴的门类。他的宠物弗雷德(Fred)是吉娃娃和梗犬的混血品种，现在，这只狗狗也有了自己的Instagram账号，这还得拜基尼的女儿所赐。“这种门类可以用‘宠物相机’(PetCam)这个短语来形容，”他接着说，“人们对自己的宠物很着迷。这种活动最终能够增强主人与宠物之间的纽带，因为它最终还需要二者间的配合。”
•
And what of Tiger, my absent would-be collaborator? I asked Alan Wilson, a scientist in the Structure & Motion laboratory at the Royal Veterinary College in London, why he might have left home. In a recent study, aired last summer on the BBC Two Horizon show “The Secret Life of Cats,” Dr. Wilson and his colleagues tracked 50 house cats in an English village by placing GPS tags and, in some cases, tiny cameras on their collars, to see where they went. The maps of the cats’ activity were fascinating, with most cats ranging just over 100 yards from their homes, deftly skirting one another’s rambles, though one cat had a range of two miles. In many cases, it turned out that cats were making a beeline for other cats’ houses in the post-midnight hours, sneaking into their kitchens and eating their food.
我那位失踪的潜在搭档小虎到底怎么了呢？我找到伦敦皇家兽医学院(Royal Veterinary College)结构与动作实验室(Structure & Motion laboratory)的科学家阿兰·威尔森(Alan Wilson)，请教他小虎离家出走可能的原因。最近BBC二台的《地平线》(Horizon)节目推出了《猫咪的秘密生活》(The Secret Life of Cats)，这期节目报道了一项最新研究。在这项研究中，威尔森及其同事在英格兰一座村庄追踪了50只家猫，他们在猫咪的项圈上安装了GPS追踪器——还给有些猫咪安装了迷你相机，以掌握它们的去向。猫的活动地图非常有趣，大多数猫咪的离家范围只有100多码（约合91米），它们会巧妙地避开各自的漫步路线，只有一只猫的漫步距离达到了两英里（约合3公里）。事实表明，在许多情况下，午夜过后的几个小时内，猫咪会直接潜入其它猫的房间里，溜进厨房偷吃食物。
“Tiger might have found somewhere nicer to live,” Dr. Wilson said. “Someplace with better cat food, nicer windowsills. There’s an old saying, ‘Cats own people, not the other way around.’ As we saw in our studies, some cats have several owners. Cats return because the other situation has become less advantageous. Maybe the other household gets a dog, for example. Then they’d come back to exploit you again. Don’t give up hope. He’s probably living somewhere else. I don’t know if that’s better or worse, really, for you to hear.”
“小虎说不定找到了一个更舒服的家，”威尔森说，“那里有更优质的猫粮和更好玩的窗台。有句老话说，‘是猫主宰人，而不是反过来。’我们在研究中也发现，有些猫有好几个主人。当其他主人家里的条件变得没有那么好时，它们就会回来。比方说，要是其他主人家里养了一条狗，它们就会回来，再次奴役你。不要放弃希望。它可能现在正住在别人家里呢。我不知道你听到这个消息后，心情会好一些，还是更糟。”
Tiger, however, is less opportunistic than the average feline, more dog than cat. He is not mysterious or inscrutable. He comes when you call him. He is extravagantly affectionate. A pleasure-seeker, to be sure, but his pleasures derive mostly from human contact. He purred so loudly during his first checkup, the vet couldn’t hear his heartbeat.
但是小虎没有一般的猫咪那么喜欢投机取巧，它更像狗。它并不神秘，也没什么心机。你一叫它，它就会来，非常亲昵。当然，它是一只追求享乐的猫，但是它的乐趣大多源于和人类的接触。第一次检查身体的时候，它叫得太欢实了，以至于兽医都听不清它的心跳。