Luca Nichetto is an Italian designer who grew up professionally among the glassmaking studios of Murano. These days, however, he often finds himself inspired by a humbler medium.
卢卡·尼凯托(Luca Nichetto)是一名意大利设计师，从小在慕拉诺（Murano，威尼斯的玻璃工业中心——译注）的玻璃作坊中长大，受到专业氛围的熏陶。不过，这些天里，他发现自己往往能从更低端的媒介中汲取灵感。
“Paper and cardboard are amazing materials,” he said.
“纸张和硬纸板是神奇的材料，”他说。
For one thing, Mr. Nichetto explained, they are easily recycled, and that “makes them really interesting materials that respect our planet.” But they can also assume a variety of forms — from simple sheets of material to pressed paper pulp — which allows designers to create a surprisingly diverse range of paper-based products.
尼凯托解释道，首先，它们很容易回收，这“使它们成为非常有趣的环保材料”。此外，它们的形式多样——从简单的纸片到加压纸浆，各种材料都有。设计师就可以在此基础上创作出令人惊叹而百变的各类纸制品。
Although his finished designs are usually made out of other materials, Mr. Nichetto, 37, said he frequently works with paper when he is developing them at his studios in Venice and Stockholm. For instance, when he was designing the Motek chair for Cassina, which was introduced last year, he said, “I played with small modeling paper to create a shell” that was informed by origami, which had folds that provided structural rigidity. And his Stewie lamp for Foscarini, introduced in 2012, grew out of an analysis of Japanese paper lamps.
尽管他的设计成品通常是由其它材料制成的，现年37岁的尼凯托说，他在威尼斯和斯德哥尔摩的工作室里创作时，经常会用到纸。举个例子，去年，Cassina公司推出了他所设计的“Motek”座椅。他说，在设计过程中，“我试用一些较小的模型用纸，做了个壳子”，灵感源于折纸艺术，通过褶皱来增强作品整体的结构刚性。还有2012年，Foscarini公司推出了尼凯托设计的“Stewie”灯具，这款设计的灵感则衍生于对日本纸灯的一次分析。
But he was quick to note that other designers have been creating finished products made of paper and cardboard for years. At the Vitra store in the meatpacking district, Mr. Nichetto pointed to a couple of classic cardboard pieces by the architect Frank Gehry: the 1972 Wiggle side chair and a miniature of the 1987 Little Beaver chair.
不过，他很快注意到，其他设计师早在多年前就已开始采用纸张和硬纸板创作成品了。在肉库区(meatpacking district)的Vitra门店，尼凯托指了指两件经典的硬纸板作品，它们都是建筑师弗兰克·盖里(Frank Gehry)的大作。一件是1972年推出的无扶手波纹椅“Wiggle”，另一件是1987年推出的座椅“Little Beaver”的迷你版。
“Cardboard is usually just considered cheap and for packaging,” Mr. Nichetto said. “But he gave it a whole new meaning.” He sat down on the Wiggle chair, pronouncing it firm and durable, but malleable enough to “develop a patina as you use it.”
“硬纸板通常只被人们视为廉价的包装材料，”尼凯托说，“但他却为硬纸板赋予了全新的意义。”他坐到Wiggle波纹椅上，称它结实耐用，且柔韧性足够好，“用久之后还会泛出古旧的光泽”。
At the MoMA Design Store in SoHo, Mr. Nichetto found another cardboard seat: the Riki stool, designed by Riki Watanabe in 1965. “It’s super simple, but really cool,” he said, admiring the bold primary colors. And with the hidden voids inside, he joked, “You have some secret storage for when the police come to your flat.”
在苏豪区，MoMA的设计店里，尼凯托又找到一张名为“Riki”的硬纸板脚凳，这是渡边力(Riki Watanabe)在1965年设计的作品。“它超级简约，但真的很酷，”他边说边欣赏着椅身上大胆保留的原色。在谈到椅子内部的暗格时，他打趣道，“警察来搜查时，你就有藏东西的地方了。”
For a larger storage unit, Mr. Nichetto suggested the Paper Cabinet by Studio Job for Moooi, which he found online at Lumens. Made entirely out of paper and cardboard components that slotted together, it had a finish that looked like haphazard papier-mâché. “It’s typical in Venice to use this process for masks,” he said.
至于大型收纳用具，尼凯托推荐设计工作室Studio Job为荷兰品牌Moooi设计的纸柜(Paper Cabinet)，那是他在Lumens网站上找到的。这款纸柜完全由纸张和硬纸板组件拼装而成，有一层涂料，看起来就像混凝纸浆。“这种涂饰工艺在威尼斯很典型，”他说。
But the Trash Me table lamp by Victor Vetterlein, at YLighting, offered an even more surprising texture: molded paper pulp. “I like the really rough projection of the material,” Mr. Nichetto said. “He used a process similar to egg packaging.”
不过，维克多·费特莱因(Victor Vetterlein)为灯具品牌YLighting设计的“Trash Me”台灯，展示出了更加惊人的质地：纸浆模塑。“材料的质感看起来真的很粗糙，这一点我非常喜欢，”尼凯托说，“他采用了和鸡蛋托类似的制作工艺。”