IT’S one of the things we are most afraid might happen to us. We go to great lengths to avoid it. And yet we do it all the same: We marry the wrong person.
这是我们最怕遇到的事情之一。我们会竭力避免。然而结局还是一样：我们选错了结婚对象。
Partly, it’s because we have a bewildering array of problems that emerge when we try to get close to others. We seem normal only to those who don’t know us very well. In a wiser, more self-aware society than our own, a standard question on any early dinner date would be: “And how are you crazy?”
这在一定程度上是因为，当我们试图接近另一个人时，会有一系列令人晕头转向的问题出现。我们看上去挺正常，但那只是因为别人不太了解我们。如果生活在一个比现在更明智、更自知的社会，任何交往初期的晚餐约会上都应该问一个标准问题：“你有什么毛病？”
Perhaps we have a latent tendency to get furious when someone disagrees with us or can relax only when we are working; perhaps we’re tricky about intimacy after sex or clam up in response to humiliation. Nobody’s perfect. The problem is that before marriage, we rarely delve into our complexities. Whenever casual relationships threaten to reveal our flaws, we blame our partners and call it a day. As for our friends, they don’t care enough to do the hard work of enlightening us. One of the privileges of being on our own is therefore the sincere impression that we are really quite easy to live with.
我们也许有一种被人反驳时会发怒的潜在倾向，或者只有在二人交往顺利时才能放松；也许我们难于接受性事之后的亲密接触，或在受辱时会选择沉默。谁都不完美。问题在于，我们在婚前很少去探究我们复杂的一面。在关系尚不稳定时，每当我们的缺陷有暴露的危险，我们就会把错推到对方身上，分手了事。至于我们的朋友，他们不会在意到愿花大力气去点醒我们的地步。因此，独立生活的其中一项好处就是，我们真心认为我们是很好相处的人。
Our partners are no more self-aware. Naturally, we make a stab at trying to understand them. We visit their families. We look at their photos, we meet their college friends. All this contributes to a sense that we’ve done our homework. We haven’t. Marriage ends up as a hopeful, generous, infinitely kind gamble taken by two people who don’t know yet who they are or who the other might be, binding themselves to a future they cannot conceive of and have carefully avoided investigating.
我们的伴侣也不见得比你更有自知之明。我们理所当然会去试图理解他们。我们去他们的家中拜访。我们看他们的照片，我们见他们大学时的朋友。这些都让我们感觉，我们是做了功课的。但我们没有。到头来，婚姻是两个不了解自己、也不了解对方的人，开始一场充满希望的、宽宏的、无比亲切的赌博，把自己和一个他们无从想象的未来捆绑在一起，并且他们还一直小心翼翼地避免去探究那个未来。
For most of recorded history, people married for logical sorts of reasons: because her parcel of land adjoined yours, his family had a flourishing business, her father was the magistrate in town, there was a castle to keep up, or both sets of parents subscribed to the same interpretation of a holy text. And from such reasonable marriages, there flowed loneliness, infidelity, abuse, hardness of heart and screams heard through the nursery doors. The marriage of reason was not, in hindsight, reasonable at all; it was often expedient, narrow-minded, snobbish and exploitative. That is why what has replaced it — the marriage of feeling — has largely been spared the need to account for itself.
有历史记载以来，人多数时候是出于一些理性的原因结婚的：因为她家的土地和你的相邻，他家的生意非常红火，她父亲是本地的执法官，有一座世袭的城堡，或者两家的父母同属一个宗教派别。通过这些有理有据的婚姻，人们得到的是孤独、偷情、虐待、冷酷和从儿童房传出的尖叫。如今我们看到，理性的婚姻根本就不合情理；它往往是权宜的、狭隘的、势利的，是为了榨取好处。这也就是为什么，取代了它的情感婚姻，基本上不需要为自己做出解释。
What matters in the marriage of feeling is that two people are drawn to each other by an overwhelming instinct and know in their hearts that it is right. Indeed, the more imprudent a marriage appears (perhaps it’s been only six months since they met; one of them has no job or both are barely out of their teens), the safer it can feel. Recklessness is taken as a counterweight to all the errors of reason, that catalyst of misery, that accountant’s demand. The prestige of instinct is the traumatized reaction against too many centuries of unreasonable reason.
在情感婚姻中，重要的是两个人在一种强大的本能驱使下走到一起，他们心里清楚这是个正确的决定。的确，一场婚姻看上去越是草率（也许两人才认识六个月；其中一个人没有工作，或两个人都才勉强算成年人），感觉就越是牢靠。理性这种痛苦的催化剂，这种对精打细算的需求，犯下了种种错误，而鲁莽被用来平衡这些错误。对本能的推崇，是千百年来不合理的理性造成的创伤性反应。
But though we believe ourselves to be seeking happiness in marriage, it isn’t that simple. What we really seek is familiarity — which may well complicate any plans we might have had for happiness. We are looking to recreate, within our adult relationships, the feelings we knew so well in childhood. The love most of us will have tasted early on was often confused with other, more destructive dynamics: feelings of wanting to help an adult who was out of control, of being deprived of a parent’s warmth or scared of his anger, of not feeling secure enough to communicate our wishes. How logical, then, that we should as grown-ups find ourselves rejecting certain candidates for marriage not because they are wrong but because they are too right — too balanced, mature, understanding and reliable — given that in our hearts, such rightness feels foreign. We marry the wrong people because we don’t associate being loved with feeling happy.
我们相信自己是在婚姻中追寻幸福，然而并不是那么简单。我们真正在追寻的是亲密——而这一点完全可以是我们寻找幸福的计划的一道障碍。我们希望在成人关系中重建儿时熟悉的感受。我们在早年品尝到的爱，往往会和另一些更具毁灭性的作用力混为一谈：想要去帮助一个失控的成年人的感觉、被剥夺父母关爱或害怕父母愤怒的感觉、因缺乏安全感而不愿表达个人意愿的感觉。那么，当作为成年人的我们拒绝一个婚姻对象的理由不是他们错了，而是他们太正确——太均衡、成熟、善解人意和可靠——那又是何其合乎情理啊。毕竟在我们心里，这种正确是种陌生的感觉。我们和错误的人结婚是因为，我们不把被爱和幸福感联系起来。
We make mistakes, too, because we are so lonely. No one can be in an optimal frame of mind to choose a partner when remaining single feels unbearable. We have to be wholly at peace with the prospect of many years of solitude in order to be appropriately picky; otherwise, we risk loving no longer being single rather more than we love the partner who spared us that fate.
孤独的感觉也会让我们犯错。当我们无法忍受一个人的生活时，谁也无法用最佳的心态去选择伴侣。要想保持适度的挑剔，我们必须彻底接受一个现实：接下来的多年可能要一个人过；否则，我们就有可能是为了摆脱单身而选择，而不是因为我们爱上了一个让我们逃脱孤独命运的伴侣。
Finally, we marry to make a nice feeling permanent. We imagine that marriage will help us to bottle the joy we felt when the thought of proposing first came to us: Perhaps we were in Venice, on the lagoon, in a motorboat, with the evening sun throwing glitter across the sea, chatting about aspects of our souls no one ever seemed to have grasped before, with the prospect of dinner in a risotto place a little later. We married to make such sensations permanent but failed to see that there was no solid connection between these feelings and the institution of marriage.
最后，我们结婚是为了将一种美好的感受固化。我们设想婚姻可以把我们初次产生求婚念头那一刻的喜悦之情保存起来：也许我们是在威尼斯，在泻湖上，乘着一艘摩托艇，落日余晖在水面上泛起粼粼波光，我们聊着自己的灵魂中似乎从未有人触碰过的某个角落，过一会儿可能还要去一个主打意大利烩饭的馆子共进晚餐。我们结婚，是为了让这些美好感受成为永恒，但是我们没有意识到，这些感受和婚姻制度之间并不存在切实的关联。
Indeed, marriage tends decisively to move us onto another, very different and more administrative plane, which perhaps unfolds in a suburban house, with a long commute and maddening children who kill the passion from which they emerged. The only ingredient in common is the partner. And that might have been the wrong ingredient to bottle.
事实上婚姻往往把我们推向另一个截然不同的、更具经营色彩的层面，它可能是在一座郊区房子里展开的，上班的地方很远，孩子能把人气死，这些会扼杀当初让他们产生结婚念头的激情。这其中唯一不变的一个成分就是伴侣。而我们选择的这个成分可能是错的。
The good news is that it doesn’t matter if we find we have married the wrong person.
好消息是，如果发现我们跟不适合的人结了婚也不要紧。
We mustn’t abandon him or her, only the founding Romantic idea upon which the Western understanding of marriage has been based the last 250 years: that a perfect being exists who can meet all our needs and satisfy our every yearning.
我们一定不能放弃他或她，要放弃的只是内心深处的浪漫想法，即世界上存在能满足我们所有需求和向往的完美伴侣。过去250年间，西方对婚姻的理解一直以此为基础。
WE need to swap the Romantic view for a tragic (and at points comedic) awareness that every human will frustrate, anger, annoy, madden and disappoint us — and we will (without any malice) do the same to them. There can be no end to our sense of emptiness and incompleteness. But none of this is unusual or grounds for divorce. Choosing whom to commit ourselves to is merely a case of identifying which particular variety of suffering we would most like to sacrifice ourselves for.
上述浪漫想法需要让位给一种带有悲剧色彩（有时也带有喜剧色彩）的观点：每个人都会让我们感到困扰、愤怒、烦恼、发狂、失望——而我们也会对他们做同样的事。我们可能会有无尽的空虚感和不完整感。但这不是什么不寻常的事，也不是离婚的理由。选择向哪个人奉上一生的承诺，只关乎我们最愿意做出哪些牺牲，忍受哪些特定的痛苦。
This philosophy of pessimism offers a solution to a lot of distress and agitation around marriage. It might sound odd, but pessimism relieves the excessive imaginative pressure that our romantic culture places upon marriage. The failure of one particular partner to save us from our grief and melancholy is not an argument against that person and no sign that a union deserves to fail or be upgraded.
这种悲观的理念有助于处理婚姻中的许多烦恼和躁动。听起来或许有些奇怪，但悲观主义的确可以舒缓我们的浪漫文化加于婚姻之上的那种过于不切实际的压力。某个特定的伴侣无法让我们摆脱悲伤和忧郁，不能被当成否定那个人的理由，也不意味着一场婚姻注定要失败，必须转而寻找更好的。
The person who is best suited to us is not the person who shares our every taste (he or she doesn’t exist), but the person who can negotiate differences in taste intelligently — the person who is good at disagreement. Rather than some notional idea of perfect complementarity, it is the capacity to tolerate differences with generosity that is the true marker of the “not overly wrong” person. Compatibility is an achievement of love; it must not be its precondition.
最适合我们的人并不是与我们志趣完全相投的人（这样的他或她并不存在），而是能够就不同的志趣聪明地进行协商的人，是善于求同存异的人。一个“不算太不适合”的人的真正标志，不是只存在于想象中的完美互补，而是有能力包容差异。契合是爱的成就，千万不要把它当成爱的前提。
Romanticism has been unhelpful to us; it is a harsh philosophy. It has made a lot of what we go through in marriage seem exceptional and appalling. We end up lonely and convinced that our union, with its imperfections, is not “normal.” We should learn to accommodate ourselves to “wrongness,” striving always to adopt a more forgiving, humorous and kindly perspective on its multiple examples in ourselves and in our partners.
浪漫主义对我们一直没有帮助，它是一种严苛的理念。它让我们在婚姻中经历的许多事情显得异常而恶劣。它让我们感到孤独，让我们相信我们的不完美婚姻并不“正常”。我们应该学着包容所谓的“不正常”，尽可能以更宽容、幽默、充满善意的眼光来看待自己以及伴侣身上的种种“不正常”之处。