When Nina Montée and Harvey Karp first met, at a party in 1992, she mistook him for a nanny. “Here was this good-looking, ponytailed, hippy-ish guy telling me he took care of our hosts’ child,” she said. “It didn’t occur to me he was a doctor.”
1992年，妮娜·蒙蒂(Nina Montée)在派对上第一次见到哈维·卡普(Harvey Karp)时，她以为他是个保姆。“当时他挺帅气的，扎着马尾，走嬉皮路线。他说他给主人家照看孩子，”她回忆道，“我没想到他是医生。”
Since then, Dr. Karp, a pediatrician, has become a best-selling author, hailed as a “baby whisperer” for his expertise in calming newborns and toddlers and promoting healthy sleep. But that evening, he was just an intriguing stranger who surprised her with his enthusiasm for the same obscure works of music, art and literature that she loved. Soon they began dating, and three years later, when they went looking for a house together, the element of surprise once again played a role.
自此之后，小儿科医师卡普成了畅销书作家，人称“宝宝耳语专家”(Baby Whisperer)，因为他善于安抚婴幼儿，促进他们的健康睡眠。不过那天晚上，他在蒙蒂的眼里，只是个很有魅力的陌生人。让她惊喜的是，他也很喜欢她所钟爱的晦涩歌曲、艺术品和文学作品。很快，他们开始约会。三年后，他们一起找房子时，又一次遇到了惊喜。
The first property they saw was a modest 1961 home, perched on a steep hill in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles. A chalet with wood-paneled interiors wasn’t an obvious choice for two modernists, but once they crossed the threshold, they knew they had arrived. “Along the street, you don’t sense the enormous presence of the ocean,” said Dr. Karp, now 62. “Then you walk inside and suddenly you see it. It’s mesmerizing.”
他们看到第一套房子，是一座1961年建成的住宅，外观朴实无华，坐落在洛杉矶Pacific Palisades的一座陡峭山峰上。对于两个现代主义者来说，一个室内铺着实木面板的山间小屋显然不是理想选择。但是自打踏过门槛的那一刻起，他们就知道这是他们要找的地方。“走在街面上的时候，你感觉不到海洋的壮阔，”现年62岁的卡普说，“进门之后，你一下子就看到了大海，这太让人震撼了。”
They bought the 1,900-square-foot house and settled in with Ms. Montée’s daughter, Lexi, who was 12. “We always said we were going to renovate next year,” she said. “Fifteen years later, we still hadn’t done it.”
他们买下了这套1900平方英尺（约合177平方米）的房子，和蒙蒂12岁的女儿莱克西(Lexi)一同住了进去。“我们总是说明年要装修房子，”蒙蒂说，“但是15年过去了，房子依然没装修。”
During that time, they married, Lexi grew up and moved out, and Dr. Karp made a career change. In 2002, with the release of his first book, “The Happiest Baby on the Block,” he ended 27 years of pediatric practice to devote himself to educating parents on his calming techniques. He and Ms. Montée Karp (the surname she now uses) founded the Happiest Baby, a company that oversees this mission, and the couple became environmental activists.
在这15年里，他们结了婚，莱克西长大了，搬了出去，卡普转了行。2002年，卡普出版了第一本书《妙手妈妈 VS 哭闹宝宝》(The Happiest Baby on the Block)，结束了他为期27年的小儿科医师生涯，转而向为人父母者传授安抚婴幼儿的技巧。他和蒙蒂·卡普（卡普是蒙蒂现在的姓氏）成立了一家叫the Happiest Baby的公司，旨在完成这一使命。夫妇俩还成为了环保活动家。
“We were too busy to renovate until the need pushed itself upon us,” Dr. Karp said, referring to damage from a burst water heater, “but then we saw the opportunity.” It was their chance to have a modern home, exposing the views and their collection of works by Southern California artists like Charles Arnoldi, Alison Van Pelt and Ed Ruscha.
“我们太忙了，根本没时间装修。后来不装修不行了，”卡普说，他指的是热水器爆裂的事，“不过这也让我们得到一个机会。”他们可以趁此机会，装修出一个现代风格的住宅，扩大观景视角，展示私人收藏的南加州艺术家的作品。这些艺术家包括查尔斯·阿诺迪(Charles Arnoldi)、艾莉森·范·佩尔特(Alison Van Pelt)和埃德·鲁沙(Ed Ruscha)。
But there was a catch: Zoning codes protecting the coastal land prohibited adding height or enlarging the house more than few feet out front. And covenants protecting neighbors’ views meant the pitched roof couldn’t be made flat without sacrificing the second story.
不过这样做有一个陷阱：保护沿海土地的区划法规禁止居民将房屋加高，房屋正面向外扩建的规模也不得超过几英尺。由于签订了保护邻居观景视角的协议，这就意味着，要想将斜屋顶修平，就必须牺牲二楼的空间。
After a few false starts, they hired Patrick Tighe, an architect whose work ranges from housing to arts venues. Ms. Montée Karp, 51, a documentary filmmaker, said, “We told Patrick we wanted modern, but not cold — a place that would reflect our love of books, music and art.”
经过一些错误的早期摸索，他们聘请了建筑师帕特里克·泰伊(Patrick Tighe)。泰伊的作品既包括住宅，又包括艺术场馆。51岁的纪录片制片人蒙蒂·卡普说：“我们跟帕特里克说，我们想把家里装修得现代一点，但又不给人冷冰冰的感觉——家里的布置要能反映我们对书籍、音乐和艺术的喜爱。”
Once Mr. Tighe discovered “how adventurous” they were, as he put it, he transformed their house “by massaging the restrictions for height, setbacks and projections.” By tweaking code restrictions, borrowing space from the garage and pushing out a few feet on the street side, the $935,000 renovation succeeded in expanding the house slightly, to 2,200 square feet.
泰伊说，他发现他们有“多喜欢冒险”之后，他对房子进行了改头换面，“在满足高度限制和外墙缩进限制的前提下，实现原本的设想。”他们绞尽脑汁地满足法规限制，通过从车库借用空间、将房子向外扩建几英尺，这项耗资93.5万美元（约合人民币585万元）的装修工程，成功地将房屋面积扩大了一小部分，使之达到了2200平方英尺（约合204平方米）。
The resulting facade, plastered smooth, is faceted and sculptural, with sloping walls that merge seamlessly with the roof. Similarly, the white terrazzo floors, pitched ceilings and interior walls flow together like a continuous wrapper, framing views and playing against the artwork. Ms. Montée Karp oversaw the décor, integrating her own paintings and sculpture, as well as furnishings she designed herself.
装修好的房屋正面光滑，刷有灰泥，采用多面体墙面，并饰以浮雕。墙体是倾斜的，与屋顶无缝结合。同样，白色水磨石地板、斜天花板和内墙的线条流畅地结合在一起，就像浑然一体的包装纸，为景观构建了框架，与室内的艺术品相映成趣。蒙特·卡普监督了装潢过程，并将自己的画作、雕塑和亲手设计的家具布置了进去。
The ocean panoramas, Dr. Karp said, “almost make you feel you’re on a boat, but then you see the trees. You have both drama — the ocean and the mountains — and real serenity. It’s a place full of unexpected juxtapositions.”
卡普说，海洋的全景“让你感觉自己就像坐在船上，但是你还可以看到树木。海洋和山峰——这两种壮观的景象你都能看到——你能得到真正的宁静。这里到处都可以看到不同的景观相映成趣，让人觉得不可思议。”
Ms. Montée Karp added: “And the brilliance of Patrick’s design completely makes you forget this was an A-frame shack.”
蒙蒂·卡普补充道：“而且帕特里克的设计太出色了，你完全感觉不到这里只是一个金字塔形的小木屋。”