CHERNOBYL, Ukraine — Against the decaying skyline here, a one-of-a-kind engineering project is rising near the remains of the world's worst civilian nuclear disaster.
乌克兰切尔诺贝利——在世界上最严重的民用核设施灾难的遗址旁边，一座空前绝后的建筑工程拔地而起，指向这里日渐衰败的天际线。
An army of workers, shielded from radiation by thick concrete slabs, is constructing a huge arch, sheathed in acres of gleaming stainless steel and vast enough to cover the Statue of Liberty. The structure is so otherworldly it looks as if it could have been dropped by aliens onto this Soviet-era industrial landscape. If all goes as planned, by 2017 the 32,000-ton arch will be delicately pushed on Teflon pads to cover the ramshackle shelter that was built to entomb the radioactive remains of the reactor that exploded and burned here in April 1986. When its ends are closed, it will be able to contain any radioactive dust should the aging shelter collapse.
在厚厚的混凝土板的反辐射防护下，无数的工人正在建造一座巨大的拱顶。它包裹在大量锃亮的不锈钢下，体量之大足以覆盖自由女神像。这座建筑极为超自然，看起来就像是被外星人扔到这片苏联时代的工业区中一样。如果一切顺利，到了2017年，这座重达3.2万吨的拱顶将被安置在聚四氟乙烯垫轨上，巧妙地滑去覆盖在那座破败的防护建筑上。老的防护是为了包裹1986年4月爆炸燃毁的反应堆释放的放射性残余物而兴建的。当拱顶的两端封闭后，将有能力在日渐陈旧的防护建筑倒塌的情况下，包住所有的放射性尘埃。
By all but eliminating the risk of additional atmospheric contamination, the arch will remove the lingering threat of even a limited reprise of those nightmarish days 28 years ago, when radioactive fallout poisoned the flatlands for miles around and turned villages into ghost towns, filled with the echoes of abandoned lives.
通过几近消除大气遭进一步污染的风险，这座拱顶将解除挥之不去的灾难重演的威胁，哪怕是有限的重演。在28年前的那段梦魇般的日子里，放射性尘埃严重污染了周边的大面积平原地区，将村镇变为鬼城，里面回荡着过往生活的回声。
The arch will also allow the final stage of the Chernobyl cleanup to begin — an arduous task to remove the heavily contaminated reactor debris for permanent safe storage. That this job will fall from international hands to those of Ukraine presents new worries, especially as Russia threatens the nation's borders.
这座拱顶还将允许切尔诺贝利清理工作开启任务艰巨的最后阶段，即移除遭严重污染的反应堆废墟，以便将其进行永久性的安全储存。这一任务将由国际社会移交到乌克兰手中，从而带来了新的忧虑，尤其是在俄罗斯威胁乌克兰边境线的局势下。
For now, though, the rising arch is a sign of progress.
不过，目前看来，这座日渐增高的拱顶是进步的象征。
“It's an amazing structure,” said Nicolas Caille, project director for Novarka, the consortium of French construction companies that is building it. “You can't compare it to anything else.”
拱顶由法国建筑企业联合体Novarka打造。“这是座不可思议的建筑，”Novarka的项目总监尼古拉·卡耶(Nicolas Caille)说。“你没法拿它与任何其他的东西类比。”
With nations debating the future of atomic power as one way to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions and fight climate change, the arch is also a stark reminder that nuclear energy, for all of its benefits, carries enormous risks. When things go wrong, huge challenges follow.
各国正在辩论原子能作为削减温室气体排放及应对气候变化的一种手段的未来，而这座拱顶响亮地提醒人们，核能尽管拥有诸多好处，但也背负着巨大的风险。一旦出现差池，巨大的挑战就会随之而来。
Containment and cleanup push engineering capabilities to their limits, as Japan is also finding out since the meltdowns at the Fukushima power plant three years ago.
正如日本自三年前福岛核电站熔融事故以来体会的那样，核污染的控制与清理工作挑战着工程能力的极限。
The costs are enormous — the Chernobyl arch alone will end up costing about $1.5 billion, financed largely by the United States and about 30 other nations.
其间的成本也极为可观——单是切尔诺贝利拱顶，最终花费就将达15亿美元左右（约合94亿元人民币）。拱顶项目主要由美国资助，还有其他约30个国家出资。
And making the site of a radioactive disaster truly secure can take generations.
而且，要想让这座放射性灾难遗址真正安全，或许要花上好几代人的时间。
Engineers have designed the Chernobyl arch to stand for 100 years; they figure that is how long it may take to fully clean the area. But there have always been questions about Ukraine's long-term commitment, and the political turmoil and tensions with Russia have raised new concerns. So even a century might not be enough.
工程人员将切尔诺贝利拱顶的设计寿命定为100年；根据他们的测算，这是彻底清洁该地区可能需要的时间。然而，乌克兰的长期决心一直存疑，而该国的政治动荡及其与俄罗斯之间的冲突又引发了新的关切。因此，就连一个世纪也可能并不足够。
The arch, though, is a formidable structure, said Vince Novak, the director of nuclear safety for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which administers the project's financing. If necessary, he said, “it might be able to last 300 years or more.”
不过，欧洲复兴开发银行(European Bank for Reconstruction and Development)的核安全主管文斯·诺瓦克(Vince Novak)表示，这座拱形建筑相当强大。他所在的机构负责管理该项目的融资。他说，如有必要，“它或许可以维持300年，乃至更久。”
The Chernobyl accident can be likened to a huge dirty bomb, an explosion that spewed radioactive material in all directions. The blast was followed by a fire that sent even more contaminants into the atmosphere that were then carried by winds across the region and into Western Europe.
切尔诺贝利核事故可被比作引爆了一枚巨大的脏弹，爆炸把放射性物质喷向四面八方。爆炸后引发的大火进而把更多的污染物送入了大气中，随后它们被风带到了该地区的各个地方，并进入了西欧地区。
In this way the disaster differs from nuclear power's two other major accidents, at Three Mile Island in Pennsylvania in 1979 and Fukushima in 2011. At both of those plants, reactor cores melted down, but the core material — the nuclear fuel — remained within protective containment structures.
因此，这场灾难和其他两起重大的核电站事故截然不同，其中的一起是1979年发生的三里岛核事故，另一起是2011年发生的福岛核事故。在那两次事故中，核反应堆堆芯都发生了熔融，不过堆芯物质——即核燃料——依然处于防护装置内。
The four reactors at the Chernobyl plant had no such containment. But that was only one aspect of their flawed design. The system for controlling the nuclear fission reaction was temperamental, and under certain conditions reactor power could quickly soar out of control.
切尔诺贝利核电站的四个反应堆机组没有这样的防护机制。不过，这只是反应堆机组的设计缺陷之一。控制核裂变反应的系统性能不稳，在一定条件下，反应堆功率会迅速升高，脱离控制。
That is what happened in the early hours of April 26, 1986, at Chernobyl's Unit 4, during an ill-advised test of some of the reactor's safety systems. In a matter of seconds, the reactor power rose exponentially and the core was blasted apart by steam.
这就是1986年4月26日清晨的头几个小时里，切尔诺贝利核电站四号机组经历的情况，当时，工作人员在对反应堆的一些安全系统实施一次有欠考虑的测试。在短短几秒内，反应堆功率呈几何级数增长，堆芯被蒸汽炸得四分五裂。
A few workers died immediately, but most of the technicians in Unit 4, and the firefighters who initially responded, suffered agonizing deaths over the ensuing weeks from exposure to high levels of radiation.
有几名工人当场死亡，然而，四号机组的大部分技术员和一开始到场的消防员都因为暴露在高浓度的辐射下，在接下来的几周里经历了痛苦不堪的死亡过程。
Officially, several dozen people were killed, and many others became sick. The radiation also caused thousands of later cancers — though just how many is still the subject of much debate.
据官方统计，有数十人遇难，还有许多人身患疾病。辐射更导致成千上万人在灾难后罹患癌症，不过相关人数依然是一个众说纷纭的话题。
In the immediate aftermath, the Soviet authorities brought in the military to fight the reactor fire and evacuate nearby villages and the city of Pripyat, home to most of the plant workers and their families. Laborers were enlisted to hastily build the concrete-and-steel shelter, known as the sarcophagus. When their radiation exposure grew too high, the workers were replaced by others; in all, more than half a million people were involved in the initial cleanup.
在紧随其后的一段时间里，苏联当局派遣军队去扑灭反应堆大火，疏散普里皮亚季附近的村庄和城市，大多数核电站员工和他们的家人都住在这里。当局招募劳工加速建造钢筋混凝土防护层，也就是众所周知的石棺。当这些工人接触到的核辐射变得过高时，他们会被另一批工人替换下来；总共有五十多万人参与了最初的事故清理工作。
That was nearly three decades ago. But in and around Chernobyl, it is as if the calendar froze.
那是近30年前的事情了。然而，在切尔诺贝利核电站和其周围，时间仿佛被冻结了。
An exclusion zone of about 1,000 square miles still exists around the plant, with access controlled through checkpoints. Although radiation levels have declined somewhat through the natural process of radioactive decay, the zone remains virtually empty. Many of the villages were bulldozed; forest has overtaken others. In Pripyat, where 45,000 people once lived, paint peels off the murals in the community center and a tree grows in the middle of a gym floor.
核电站附近依然有一片大约1000平方英里（约合2590平方公里）的隔离区，只能通过哨卡进入。尽管核辐射浓度在经历自然的放射性衰变后，已出现一定程度的下降，然而这片区域实际上依然空空荡荡。有许多村庄被夷为平地；森林已经覆盖了一切。在曾有4.5万人生活的普里皮亚季，社区中心的壁画的油彩纷纷脱落，体育馆的地板中间长出了一棵树。
Radiation levels around the site are carefully mapped and arch workers have to stay within proscribed areas. Everyone wears dosimeters, detectors that would sound an alarm if there were a release from the sarcophagus and radiation levels increased. But otherwise the workers have normal schedules and wear regular work clothes.
石棺周围的辐射水平被详细绘制下来，拱顶建筑工人必须待在指定区域内。每个人都带着放射量测定仪，这是一种探测器，如果石棺发生泄露，放射浓度增加，它会发出声音预警。不过，除此以外，工人们会在正常的工作时间内工作，身着常规工作服。
Yet working there can be anything but normal. “When you arrive here for the first time, it's quite emotional,” Caille said. “We have a lot of people who have been involved or were here when they had the accident. It's still very, very present.”
然而，在这里工作实在是非同一般。卡耶说，“当你第一次抵达这里时，你会觉得百感交集。事故发生后，我们有许多人一直在参与相关工作，或者来过这里。当时的情景依然历历在目。”
After the arch is in place, Dodd said, the plan is for Ukraine to eventually begin removing the unstable structures and the remaining fuel. That will ensure that the radiation does not eventually reach groundwater, which would endanger the water supply for the 3 million people of Kiev. Ukraine also must build a repository for all the high-level waste it recovers.
多德说，拱顶安放到位后，按计划，乌克兰将最终开始清除不稳定的石棺和剩下的燃料。此举将确保放射物质不会最终渗入地下水，地下水被污将危及300万基辅居民的供水。乌克兰还必须为其回收的高放射性废料建立一个存储场。
It is unclear where the money for that work will come from — especially now with the country in turmoil. Officials with the Ukrainian Embassy in Washington did not respond when asked for comment.
目前还不清楚，清理工作的资金从哪来，尤其是考虑到该国目前局势动荡。华盛顿的乌克兰驻美国大使馆的官员没有回应我们的置评要求。
But even if there is enough money, there are technical questions as to whether the work can be accomplished, and if so how long it will take.
不过，即使有足够的资金，技术性的问题仍然存在。例如，这些工作能否完成，如果可以，最终需要多长时间？
But that is all in the future. The more immediate problem is completing the arch in an unstable political environment.
但这些都是以后的事了，更紧迫的问题是在不稳定的政治环境下建好拱顶。
“I am very concerned how the current situation will affect this initiative,” Novak said.
诺瓦克说，“对于当前局势会如何影响这项工程，我感到十分担忧。”
Chernobyl, near Ukraine's northern border, is far from the Crimea and other disputed territory. “Chernobyl and the exclusion zone remain calm, and our contractors continue their work,” Novak said, although Western experts were evacuated for a week in March.
靠近乌克兰北部边境的切尔诺贝利远离克里米亚和其他存在争议的区域。“切尔诺贝利及其隔离区依然保持着平静，我们的承包商在继续工作。”诺瓦克说。不过今年3月，西方专家曾被疏散过一次，时长一周。
The project has enough money to continue well into next year. But at some point in the next few months, there must be a “political decision” on additional financing, he said.
该项目有足够的资金，能够支撑施工方继续干到明年而毫无问题。不过他说，在今后几个月内的某一时刻，必须拿出一个筹集额外资金的“政治决定”。
Even before the political upheaval, Novak said, there were concerns about having to ask donors to contribute more. “But the risk of leaving this whole program unfinished is a prospect which I don't think anyone would want to contemplate,” he said.
诺瓦克说，早在乌克兰陷入政治动乱之前，他们就对不得不要求捐款国贡献更多资金感到担忧了。“不过，让整个项目半途而废风险太大了，我不认为，有任何人想看到这样的前景。”