Try one of these techniques if you want better service in restaurants:
如果你想在餐厅享受更好的服务，可以尝试以下窍门:
1. Become very famous;
1. 成为大名人；
2. Spend $1,000 or more on wine every time you go out;
2. 每次外出就餐都在酒单上花上1000美元（约合6100元人民币）；
3. Keep going to the same restaurant until you get V.I.P. treatment; if that doesn’t work, pick another place.
3. 经常去同一家餐厅，直到混到VIP待遇；如果不奏效，换一家地方。
Now, here is a technique that is guaranteed to have no effect on your service: leave a generous tip.
倒是有个窍门包管对你获得的服务没有任何影响：慷慨地给小费。
I’ve tipped slightly above the average for years, generally leaving 20 percent of the total, no matter what. According to one study, lots of people are just like me, sticking with a reasonable percentage through good nights and bad. And it doesn’t do us any good, because servers have no way of telling that we aren’t the hated type that leaves 10 percent of the pretax total, beverages excluded.
多年来，我给出的小费均稍高于平均水平，不管情况如何，一般都留下总餐费的20%。一项研究显示，很多人跟我一样，吃得愉快也好、糟糕也罢，总是按照一定的合理比例给小费。不过，这对我们什么好处也没有，因为服务员根本没法判断我们是不是那种招人恨的顾客，小费只给税前餐费的10%，还刨去了酒水钱。
Some servers do try to sniff out stingy tippers, engaging in customer profiling based on national origin, age, race, gender and other traits. (The profiling appears to run both ways: another study showed that customers tended to leave smaller tips for black servers.)
有些服务员的确会尝试嗅探出吝啬鬼，按照祖籍、年龄、种族和性别等特征来给顾客定性。（定性似乎是双方面的：另一项研究显示，顾客中存在给黑人服务员较少小费的倾向。）
I could go on against tipping, but let’s leave it at this: it is irrational, outdated, ineffective, confusing, prone to abuse and sometimes discriminatory. The people who take care of us in restaurants deserve a better system, and so do we.
反对小费的理由，我可以滔滔不绝，不过现在只谈一部分：小费不合理、过时、无效、令人费解、易被滥用，而且有时会造成歧视。在餐厅为我们服务的人理应得到一个更好的机制，我们顾客也是。
That’s one reason we pay attention when a restaurant tries another way, as Sushi Yasuda in Manhattan started to do two months ago. Raising most of its prices, it appended this note to credit card slips: “Following the custom in Japan, Sushi Yasuda’s service staff are fully compensated by their salary. Therefore gratuities are not accepted.”
因此，当有餐厅尝试其他方式的时候，我们会加以关注。曼哈顿的安田寿司料理店(Sushi Yasuda)两个月前开始采用新办法，提高价格，并在信用卡签账单上贴了一条告示：“遵照日本的习俗，安田寿司服务人员的薪水里已经完全包含了奖励部分。顾客的好意我们心领了。”
Sushi Yasuda joins other restaurants that have done away with tips, replacing them with either a surcharge (Atera and Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare in New York; Next and Alinea in Chicago; Coi and Chez Panisse in the San Francisco Bay Area) or prices that include the cost of service (Per Se in New York and the French Laundry in Yountville, Calif.).
安田寿司加入了一批不收小费的餐厅之列。取而代之的要么是附加费（比如纽约的Atera和Chef’s Table at Brooklyn Fare、芝加哥的Next和Alinea，以及旧金山湾区的Coi和Chez Panisse），要么是已经包含服务费的定价（比如纽约的Per Se和加利福尼亚州扬特维尔的French Laundry）。
The chef Tom Colicchio is considering service-included pricing at one of his New York restaurants, paying servers “an hourly rate that would be consistent with what they make now,” he said. “I think it makes perfect sense. I’m not sure my staff is going to think it makes perfect sense.”
大厨汤姆·科利基奥(Tom Colicchio)正考虑在旗下的纽约餐厅中找一家推行包含服务费的标价，他说，给服务员的“时薪将与他们目前的水平一致”，“我觉得非常合理。不过我不知道员工会不会也觉得非常合理。”
These restaurants are numerous enough and important enough to suggest that a tip-reform movement is under way. On the other hand, they are few enough and exceptional enough to suggest that the movement may remain very small, and move very slowly.
这些餐厅的数量和名气足以表明，小费改革运动正在发生。但另一方面看，它们的数量并不多，情况又太特殊，表明这项运动也许会保持在小范围内，而且会推行得非常缓慢。
Americans have stuck with tipping for years because all parties thought it worked in their favor. Servers, especially in restaurants from the mid- to high-priced, made good money, much of it in cash, and much of that unreported on tax returns. Owners saved on labor costs and taxes. And customers generally believed that tips brought better service.
多年来，美国人一直坚持着付小费的习惯，因为各方都认为这样做对自己有好处。服务员，尤其是那些中高档餐厅的服务员可以挣很多钱，其中大部分是现金，而且有相当一部分不缴税。餐厅所有者节省了劳动力和税收支出。顾客则往往认为，给小费能让他们享受到更好的服务。
The self-interest calculation may be different now. Credit card receipts and tougher oversight have virtually killed off unreported tips.
现在，这种利己主义的小算盘恐怕已经无法再打下去了。信用卡收据和更严格的监管基本消除了不报税的小费。
Another change is cultural. The restaurant business can be seen as a class struggle between the groomed, pressed, articulate charmers working in the dining room and the blistered, stained and profane grunts in the kitchen. The rise of chefs that are also owners has brought a few of the grunts to power. But as the average tip has risen to 20 percent or so from 15 percent, the pay for line cooks, dishwashers and others has stayed low.
另一个改变在文化方面。餐厅这一行可以被看做一场阶级斗争，斗争的双方分别是外表得体、行动迅速、表达能力好而招人喜欢的餐厅服务员和不讨人喜欢、满身污渍、举止粗鲁、心存不满的后厨工作人员。作为餐厅所有者的主厨的地位提升，使一些在厨房工作的人获得了一定权力。然而，当小费的平均水平从15%上升到了20%左右时，帮厨、洗碗工和其他人的报酬却仍然很低。
At Coi, in San Francisco, Daniel Patterson, the chef and owner, levies an 18 percent service charge to be “shared by the entire staff,” the menu notes. One of his motives was to level out the income disparity that tipping creates between the kitchen and the front of the house, he said.
旧金山Coi餐厅的菜单上写道，主厨兼店主丹尼尔·帕特森(Daniel Patterson)会收取18%的服务费来“供所有员工分享”。他说，这样做的其中一个原因，就是想消除小费在厨房工作人员和餐厅服务人员的收入方面造成的差距。
“Neither one is more important than the other,” Mr. Patterson said. “So it doesn’t make sense to me that servers would make three to four times as much as cooks.”
“两种工作都一样重要，”帕特森说。“所以，我认为服务人员挣的钱是厨师的三到四倍的现象并不合理。”
A second change has been howling outside the door. Front-of-house workers are suing one respected restaurant after another, including Dovetail, last month, accusing them of playing fast and loose with the laws on tips. The charges include sharing tips with workers who aren’t eligible for them and making tipped employees spend too much time on what is called sidework, like folding napkins between meals.
门外还在发生另一场变革。一个又一个著名餐厅被餐厅服务员起诉（上个月Dovetail也遭到了起诉），称餐厅没有遵守有关小费的法规。餐厅受到的指控包括，与无资格分享小费的工作人员分享小费，让收到小费的员工做太多所谓的附属工作，比如在空闲时叠餐巾等。
One such lawsuit was settled for more than $5 million. Some owners now think they can avoid the suits by eliminating tips.
此类诉讼中有一桩案子花了超过500万美元才和解。有些餐厅所有者现在认为，他们可以通过不收小费来避免遭到起诉。
Mr. Patterson is a true believer, but he can’t convince everybody. In 2010 he tried an 18 percent service charge when he opened Plum in Oakland, Calif. Perhaps because Plum was less expensive and more casual than Coi, diners rebelled, and he dropped the charge.
帕特森对这一点深信不疑，但是他无法说服每个人。2010年，他在加利福尼亚州奥克兰开了一家名为Plum的餐厅，当时他试图收取18%的服务费。或许是因为Plum相对廉价，而且没有Coi那么正式，这个做法引起了顾客的反感，他也就放弃了收费。
The new system may not be right for customers at value-oriented places like Plum, at least for now. But it’s time for all of us who go out to eat to think twice about our habits. Tipping doesn’t work, and it doesn’t feel very good anymore, either.
对于像Plum这种平价餐厅的顾客，这个新体系或许并不合适，至少目前是这样。但是，我们这些外出就餐的人现在的确应该对自己的习惯进行反思。付小费行不通了，而且给人小费的感觉也没那么好了。