PRESIDENT OBAMA and Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu of Israel spoke on the phone for 90 minutes the other day. Wow — 90 minutes! I wonder if Obama has ever spoken to John Boehner for 90 minutes?
奥巴马总统和以色列总理比比·内塔尼亚胡(Bibi Netanyahu)日前在电话里交谈了90分钟。哇，90分钟！我怀疑奥巴马跟约翰·博纳(John Boehner)都没有交谈过90分钟。
But this is just the start of some even longer conversations. Secretary of State John Kerry is teeing up not one, but two negotiations that involve the most neuralgic issues facing Israel today: the Iran threat and Palestinian statehood. Israel soon could face two of the hardest strategic choices it’s ever had to make at the same time: trade West Bank settlements for peace with the Palestinians and trade sanctions on Iran for curbs on its nuclear program. I’d say Obama and Netanyahu better get one of those unlimited minutes plans — or maybe just install a hotline.
但这仅仅是个开始，更为漫长的会谈还在后头。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)正准备进行的谈判不是一场，而是两场，其中牵涉到以色列眼下面临的最为头痛的问题：伊朗的威胁以及巴勒斯坦建国。以色列很快就会同时面对两个它所遇到过的最为重要的战略抉择：用约旦河西岸的定居点，与巴勒斯坦换取和平；用对伊朗的制裁，换取对其核计划的约束。我得说，奥巴马和内塔尼亚胡最好选用电话公司那种不限通话时长的套餐——或者干脆装一条首脑热线。
Given this situation, I can think of no better time for a good book about Israel — the real Israel, not the fantasy, do-no-wrong Israel peddled by its most besotted supporters or the do-no-right colonial monster portrayed by its most savage critics. Ari Shavit, the popular Haaretz columnist, has come out with just such a book this week, entitled “My Promised Land: The Triumph and Tragedy of Israel.”
鉴于这种情况，我想不出还有什么时机更适合推出一本关于以色列的好书——这本书讲述的是一个真实的以色列，既不是那些最狂热的支持者所兜售的，永远不会犯错的理想化的以色列，也不是那些最粗暴的批评者所描绘的，从来都没做过好事的殖民怪兽。备受欢迎的《国土报》(Haaretz)专栏作家阿里·沙维特(Ari Shavit)本周就出版了这样一本书，题为《我的应许之地：以色列的胜利和悲情》(My Promised Land: The Triumph and Tragedy of Israel)。
Shavit is one of a handful of experts whom I’ve relied upon to understand Israel ever since I reported there in the 1980s. What do all my Israeli analytical sources have in common? They all share a way of thinking about Israel — which is expressed with deep insight, compassion and originality in Shavit’s must-read book — that to understand Israel today requires keeping several truths in tension in your head at the same time.
自从上世纪80年代，我在以色列报道新闻以来，沙维特就一直是我赖以了解那片土地的少数几个专家之一。在对以色列的分析性报道中，我的信息源有哪些相通之处？他们看待以色列时有相同的思维方式：要理解今天的以色列，就必须同时在头脑里谨记若干事实，而这些事实之间却有紧张的关系。在沙维特这本不可不读的书中，就以深邃的洞察力、同理心以及独到性，表现了这种思维方式。
First, that Israel, at its best, is one of the most amazing political experiments in modern history, so much better than its critics will ever acknowledge. Second, Israel at its worst, is devouring Palestinian farms and homes in the West Bank in ways that are ugly, brutal, selfish and deceitful, so much worse than its supporters will ever admit. Third, Israel lives in a dangerous region — surrounded by people who hate it not only for what it does but for what it is, a successful Jewish state — but its actions matter, too. It can ameliorate or exacerbate Arab antipathy.
首先，就最好的一面而论，以色列是现代史上最令人惊叹的政治试验之一，远远好过它的批评者所愿意承认的程度。其次，就最坏的一面而论，以色列正在约旦河西岸(West Bank)以丑陋、野蛮、自私、不诚实的方式侵占巴勒斯坦人的土地和家园，远远坏过它的支持者愿意承认的程度。再次，尽管以色列存在于一个危险地带——周围尽是仇视它的人，不光因为它的所作所为，还因为它是一个成功的犹太国——但是它自身的举动也举足轻重。它能够减轻或者加深阿拉伯人的反感。
Shavit winds the history of Israel through these truths, starting with his own family. His great-grandfather, a lawyer, was a founding father; his grandfather helped to build Israel’s education system; his father, a chemist, worked among the scientists who built Israel’s nuclear program. He then weaves in the next waves of immigrants, the broken survivors of World War II who joined up with the idealistic Zionists to rebuild the Jewish commonwealth in its ancient homeland. Israel’s founders were a remarkable lot. They were modest — Golda Meir died in a two-bedroom apartment — pragmatic, but utterly focused builders, who laid the foundations for a country that absorbed Jewish immigrants from 100 nations, built world-class universities and hospitals, its own Silicon Valley and 12 winners of the Nobel Prize.
通过这些事实，沙维特对以色列的历史进行了梳理。他是从自己的家人讲起的：当律师的曾祖父曾为以色列建国立下过汗马功劳；他的祖父帮助建立了以色列的教育体系；做化学家的父亲则和其他科学家一道，为以色列的核计划打下了基础。随后，他谈到了接下来的移民潮，身心破碎的二战幸存者加入了具有理想主义色彩的犹太复国者的队伍，在的古老家园重建以色列国。以色列的立国者是一群了不起的人。这群朴素——果尔达·梅厄(Golda Meir)是在一套两居室的公寓里去世的——务实，又极为专注的建设者，为日后那个吸引了来自100个国家的犹太移民，兴建了世界一流的大学、医院，以及自己的“硅谷”，并且培养出了12位诺贝尔奖得主的以色列奠定了根基。
“Zionism’s goal,” writes Shavit, “was to transfer a people from one continent to another, to conquer a country and assemble a nation and build a state and revive a language and give hope to a hopeless people. And against all odds, Zionism succeeded. If a Vesuvius-like volcano were to erupt tonight and end our Pompeii, this is what it would petrify: a living people. People that have come from death and were surrounded by death but who nevertheless put up a spectacular spectacle of life.”
“犹太复国主义的目标，”沙维特写道，“是让一个民族从一个大洲迁往另一个大洲，征服一个国度、创立一个国家、组建一个政府、复兴一门语言，并给绝望的民族以希望。排除万难之后，犹太复国主义取得了成功。假如维苏威(Vesuvius)之类的火山在今夜爆发，毁掉我们的‘庞贝城’(Pompeii)，那么它所埋葬并固化的，将是一个充满生机的民族。这个民族死里逃生，曾被死亡包围，但还是可以创造出令人惊叹的生的奇迹。”
But this miracle also produced a nightmare. There was another people there when the Jews returned, who had their own aspirations: the Palestinian Arabs. In a brutally honest chapter entitled “Lydda, 1948,” Shavit reconstructs the story of how the population of this Palestinian Arab town, in the center of what was to become Israel, was expelled on July 13th in the 1948 war.
但这个奇迹也带来了噩梦。犹太人归来时，那里还有另外一个民族：巴勒斯坦阿拉伯人，而他们同样有着自己的期许。在《卢德，1948》(Lydda, 1948)这章中，沙维特毫不掩饰地真实再现了在1948年的战争中，7月13日那天，这座巴勒斯坦阿拉伯小镇上的人是如何遭到驱逐的。在后来成为以色列的国土上，卢德正位于中心位置。
“By noon, a mass evacuation is under way,” writes Shavit. “By evening, tens of thousands of Palestinian Arabs leave Lydda in a long column, marching south past the Ben Shemen youth village and disappearing into the East. Zionism obliterates the city of Lydda. Lydda is our black box. In it lies the dark secret of Zionism. ... If Zionism was to be, Lydda could not be.”
“到中午时，一场大规模撤离正在进行，”沙维特写道。“而到晚上，数以万计的巴勒斯坦阿拉伯人离开卢德，他们排成长长的队伍，经过本谢曼青年村(Ben Shemen)向南行进，渐渐消失在东方。犹太复国主义运动摧毁了卢德城。卢德是我们的黑匣子。它里面躺着犹太复国主义的阴暗秘密……有犹太复国主义，就不能有卢德。”
Shavit wrestles with this contradiction, arguing that it is vital for every Israeli and Zionist to acknowledge Lydda, to empathize with the Palestinians’ fate. “But Lydda does not make Zionism criminal,” he insisted in an interview. History has produced many flights of refugees — the Jewish refugees of Europe were one such wave. Israel absorbed those refugees. European countries absorbed theirs. For too long, the Arab world kept the Palestinians frozen in victimhood. “It is my moral duty as an Israeli to recognize Lydda and help the Palestinians to overcome it,” said Shavit, by helping them establish a Palestinian state that is ready to live in peace with Israel. But, ultimately, “it is the Palestinians’ responsibility to overcome the painful past, lean forward and not become addicted to victimhood.”
沙维特很难解决这个矛盾。他主张对于每个以色列人和犹太复国者而言，承认卢德的历史，对巴勒斯坦人的命运报以同情至关重要。“但卢德发生的事，并没有让犹太复国主义成为一种犯罪，”沙维特在一次采访中坚持说道。历史造成了很多次难民逃亡——欧洲犹太难民的逃亡只是其中的一批。以色列接收了他们，欧洲国家则接收了自己的难民，但长期以来，阿拉伯世界一直让巴勒斯坦人处在受害者的状态。“作为一个以色列人，”通过帮助巴勒斯坦人建立一个能与以色列和平相处的巴勒斯坦国，“来承认卢德的历史，并帮助巴勒斯坦人克服过去，是我的道德责任，”沙维特说。但最终，“克服痛苦的过去，向前看，而不是沉溺在受害者心态中，是巴勒斯坦人的责任。”
Shavit’s chapter on the Oslo peace accords, which he first supported but later denounced, challenges the Israeli left. The great mistake of the Israeli left was that it was right about the evils of Israel’s occupation, he said, “but it was wrong that ending the occupation would end the conflict with the Palestinians, because the Palestinians have not overcome the trauma of 1948 and many still oppose a Jewish democracy in this region, no matter what the borders.” But Shavit argues that Israel can’t afford to just wait for every Palestinian to embrace a Jewish state. It must find a way to separate from the West Bank, as it did in Gaza, otherwise the spreading Jewish settlements there will be the virus that kills the original Israel.
沙维特所写的，讲述奥斯陆和平协议的那一章，就对以色列左派提出了质疑。沙维特一开始时支持奥斯陆协议，后来又对协议提出批评。以色列左派犯的一个重大错误是，沙维特说，他们关于以色列占领充斥着罪恶的观点并没有错，但“他们认为结束占领，便能终结与巴勒斯坦的冲突的想法则是错误的，因为巴勒斯坦人还没有克服1948年的创伤，很多人仍反对在这个地区建立一个犹太人的民主国家，不论这个国家的边界在哪里。”但沙维特表示，以色列不能等到所有巴勒斯坦人都支持建立犹太国，以色列等不起。它必须想办法给约旦河西岸划定边界，正如它在加沙地带所做的那样，否则，在那里蔓延的犹太人定居点就会成为一种病毒，扼杀最初的以色列国。
FOR the Jewish people to have a sustainable home, he insists, it must be “just” and enjoy the support of the world — and the West Bank occupation is not just — and Israel must be democratic, and an endless occupation will lead to Jews being a minority in their own home. “Settlements endanger both these foundations for a Jewish state,” he says.
犹太人若想拥有一个能持久存在的家园，沙维特坚称，这个家园就必须是“正义的”，并得到世界的支持，而在约旦河西岸的占领则不是正义的；而且以色列必须实行民主，无休止的占领则将使犹太人成为自己家园里的少数派。沙维特说，“定居活动会威胁犹太国立国的这两个根基。”
The uniqueness of Shavit’s book is that when you’re done with it you can understand, respect or love Israel — but not in a dogmatic or unthinking way, and not a fake or contrived Israel. Shavit celebrates the Zionist man-made miracle — from its start-ups to its gay bars — while remaining affectionate, critical, realistic and morally anchored. There’s that tension again. But it’s the only way to truly appreciate Israel. It’s why his book is a real contribution to changing the conversation about Israel and building a healthier relationship with it. Before their next 90-minute phone call, both Barack and Bibi should read it.
沙维特的这本书的独特之处在于，读完这本书后，你就能理解、尊重甚至爱上以色列，但并不是以一种教条式的、不假思索的方式，而且这个以色列也并不是虚假或蓄意建构的以色列。沙维特为犹太复国主义者凭人的力量创造的这个奇迹欢呼——从它的初创企业到那里的同志酒吧，但同时他也富有感情，笔调保持批判和现实，而且时刻不忘道德责任。这里又出现了那种矛盾。但这是唯一能真正欣赏以色列的方式。这也是为什么沙维特的书真的有助于对涉及以色列的讨论带来改变，也真的有助于和以色列建立更健康的关系。在进行下一次长达90分钟的电话交谈之前，奥巴马和内塔尼亚胡都应该读读这本书。