DELHI, India — A thrill goes down Lane 12, C Block, Kamalpur, every time another working-class family brings home its first air-conditioner. Switched on for a few hours, usually to cool a room where the whole family sleeps, it transforms life in this suffocating concrete labyrinth where the heat reached 117 degrees in May.
印度德里——每当又有一个工薪家庭买回家里第一部空调，就会在卡马尔普尔12巷C座引发兴奋之情。5月时，这座迷宫般的混凝土建筑内的温度一度高达47.2摄氏度，热到令人窒息。空调开上几个小时，就可以让一个通常是全家人都睡在里边的房间凉快下来，改变人们的生活。
“You wake up totally fresh,” exulted Kaushilya Devi, a housewife, whose husband bought a unit in May. “I wouldn’t say we are middle class,” she said. “But we are closer.”
“醒来时会觉得精神抖擞，”考希利亚·德维(Kaushilya Devi)兴高采烈地说道。她是一名家庭主妇，她丈夫在5月份买了一部空调。“我不会说我们是中产阶级，”她表示。“但我们又朝那个方向迈进了一步。”
But 3,700 miles away, in Kigali, Rwanda, negotiators from more than 170 countries gathered this week to complete an accord that would phase out the use of heat-trapping hydrofluorocarbons, or HFCs, worldwide, and with them the cheapest air-conditioners that are just coming within reach of people like Devi.
不过，在3700英里开外的卢旺达基加利，来自逾170个国家的谈判代表于本周汇聚一堂，想要达成一项协议，在全球范围内逐步停止使用具有吸热效力的氢氟烃（hydrofluorocarbons, 简称HFC），以及德维等人买得起的那种会用到HFC的最便宜的空调。
Millions of Indians might mark the transition from poverty with the purchase of their first air-conditioner, but as those purchases ease suffering in one of the planet’s hottest countries, they are contributing profoundly to the heating of the planet.
购买自家的首部空调，或许是数以百万计的印度人脱贫的标志。印度是全世界最热的国家之一，人们购买空调后可以生活得舒适一些，但他们的购买行为对全球变暖问题有着深刻的影响。
HFCs function as a sort of supergreenhouse gas, with 1,000 times the heat-trapping potency of carbon dioxide. While they account for just a small percentage of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, scientists say a surge in the use of HFC-fueled air-conditioners would alone contribute to nearly a full degree Fahrenheit of atmospheric warming over the coming century. That is a lot in an environment where just 3 degrees of warming could be enough to tip the planet into an irreversible future of rising sea levels, more powerful storms and deluges, extreme drought, food shortages and other devastating effects.
作为一种超级温室气体，HFC的吸热效力是二氧化碳的1000倍。它占大气中温室气体的比例很小，但一些科学家称，在接下来的一个世纪中，单是以HFC为冷媒的空调使用量激增，就会让全球气温上升将近1华氏度。这是一个很大的数值，因为气温只要再升高3华氏度，就有可能把地球送进一个不可逆转的未来：海平面不断升高，风暴和洪水更加猛烈，极其恶劣的旱灾，食物短缺，以及其他灾难性后果。
The emerging HFC ban, nearly seven years in the making, has not drawn the same kind of attention as last year’s Paris agreement on climate change. And the Kigali talks are focused on a narrow slice of the economy — just the HFCs in air-conditioners and refrigerators.
这道HFC禁令的制定工作耗费了将近七年时间，如今终于有了眉目，但它并未像去年的巴黎气候变化协议一样获得极大关注。此外，基加利会谈聚焦的是一个狭窄的经济领域——仅限于空调和冰箱使用的HFC。
But the deal, which could be completed this weekend, could have as much or more of an effect on climate change. Unlike the Paris accord, the emerging Kigali agreement will have the force of international law, a legal requirement that rich countries give poor countries money to help them comply, and trade and economic sanctions against countries that do not.
不过，可能在本周末达成的这项协议，或许会对气候变化产生同样大甚至更大的影响。和巴黎协议不同，即将浮出水面的基加利协议将具有国际法的效力，包含让富国为穷国提供资金、帮助其遵守协议的法律要求，并列明违反协议的国家会受到的贸易和经济制裁。
Between 6 and 9 percent of Indian households use air-conditioning, and the purchase of a first unit — not a second or a third — is driving growth, said Ajay Mathur, the director-general of the Energy and Resources Institute in New Delhi. Every time government salaries are raised, he said, air-conditioner purchases surge, as civil servants gain confidence that they will be able to pay higher electric bills.
新德里能源与资源研究所(Energy and Resources Institute)所长阿杰·马瑟(Ajay Mathur)说，在印度，有6%至9%的家庭在使用空调，首部空调购买行为——不是第二部或第三部——正在推动增长。他说，每当政府机构加薪，空调销量都会猛增，因为公务员会变得更自信，觉得可以付得起金额更高的电费账单。
“It is me of 10 years ago. It is many of my younger colleagues,” Mathur said. “It is my driver, who after 20 years working for me, bought his first air-conditioner. It is a marker of social mobility.”
“十年前的我是这样。我的许多年轻同事是这样，”马瑟说。“我的司机是这样，他在为我工作了20年之后终于给家里买了第一部空调。这是社会阶层流动的标志。”
But a new global deal committing the world to a rapid phaseout of HFCs, Mathur said, would mean that many Indians would never “be able to get the benefits that go with air-conditioning.”
但马瑟表示，一项让世界各国承诺快速淘汰HFC的全球性协议的出炉，将意味着许多印度人永远“无法享有空调的好处”。
A fast phaseout comes with big wins for the United States, since many of the replacement chemicals are manufactured by U.S. chemical companies like Dow and Honeywell. But those manufacturers concede that they are more expensive than HFCs.
快速淘汰HFC会给美国带来巨大收益，因为许多替代性化学品都是由陶氏(Dow)、霍尼韦尔(Honeywell)等美国化学品公司生产的。不过这些生产商承认，替代品的价格比HFC要高。
“The replacements are more flammable and toxic,” said Stephen Yurek, the president of the Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute, an advocacy organization. “So there is a need to make sure the equipment is better designed and maintained, a need to make sure that when it is installed, it is done correctly and safely. You need better-trained people to do all that, and that will be more expensive.”
“这些替代品更易燃，毒性也更大，”倡导组织美国空调供热制冷协会(Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute)的会长斯蒂芬·尤列克(Stephen Yurek)说。“因此有必要确保设备的设计更加精良、维护更加到位，有必要确保正确、安全地安装设备。要做到这些，你得对相关人员进行更好的培训，因此价格会更加高昂。”
But a compromise solution is not just a matter of meeting in the middle. Experts say that it is crucial to ban HFCs before the Indian air-conditioning boom begins.
但制定折衷方案并不是各退一步那么简单。专家称，在印度空调市场被引爆之前禁用HFC是至关重要的。
“It’s the iPhone moment, when a product that wasn’t widely available is suddenly ubiquitous,” said Nihar Shah, an engineer at the Energy Department’s Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
“现在是处于iPhone时刻，原本很少见的产品转瞬间就有可能变得无所不在，”美国能源部(Energy Department)劳伦斯伯克利国家实验室(Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory)的工程师尼哈尔·沙阿(Nihar Shah)说。
During the 1990s, 5 percent of urban residents in China owned air-conditioners. A decade later, it was nearly 100 percent.
在上世纪90年代，中国城市居民中只有5%拥有空调。十年后，这一数字上升到了将近100%。
“The idea is to get the best air-conditioner technology in place before this happens,” he said. “Otherwise, you’ll have these HFC air-conditioners locked in place for another decade.”
“在这种事情发生前，就应该让最好的空调技术就位，”她说。“否则，你就得让这些以HFC为制冷剂的空调在另一个十年里大行其道。”
In Burari, the Delhi neighborhood where Devi lives, and which Kamalpur is a section of, air-conditioning signifies both arrival and investment in the future. Homeowners here are mostly migrants from mountainous north India who work as government clerks or drivers and are investing heavily in their children’s English-language education.
在德里的布拉里——即德维居住的社区，卡马尔普尔是其中一部分——空调意味着社会阶层的提升，以及对未来的投资。这里的房主大部分是来自印度北部山区的移民，多为政府职员或司机，会大力投资于子女的英语教育。
S.S. Pathak, a bank manager, said he installed air-conditioning so his children, who are studying for medical school entrance exams, could manage late-night study sessions without nodding off or being devoured by disease-carrying mosquitoes.
银行经理S·S·帕塔克(S.S. Pathak)说他之所以安装空调，是因为家里的孩子正为参加医学院入学考试而努力学习，有了空调，孩子们深夜用功时就不会犯困，不会被携带病菌的蚊子叮咬。
Sandhya Chauhan and her family live in two musty, windowless subterranean rooms, which turn stifling on summer nights, leaving six sweat-soaked adults to fidget, toss and pace until morning. They have lived there for 20 years, unable to find other lodging on the household’s combined earnings of around 30,000 rupees ($450) a month.
桑德海厄·肖汉(Sandhya Chauhan)及其家人住在两间发霉、无窗的地下室内。夏天的夜晚，屋子里非常憋闷，六名成年人常常汗流浃背，整夜辗转反侧。他们已经在这里住了20年，由于全家人每月的收入加起来只有3万卢比左右（约合450美元），根本无法找到其他住处。
But it was never as awful as this May, when temperatures crept so high that Chauhan’s friends speculated that the earth was colliding with the sun. After a doctor warned Chauhan that heat exhaustion was affecting their oldest son’s health, her husband bought an air-conditioner on credit.
但这个5月的情况是最糟糕的，气温高到惊人，以至于肖汉的朋友说地球就要撞上太阳了。在一位医生警告肖汉，热衰竭正影响她大儿子的健康以后，她丈夫赊购了一部空调。
Though they are hardly middle class — “we have never let this thought cross our minds,” Chauhan said — the purchase has changed the way they see themselves.
他们远远谈不上是中产阶级——“我们从未这样想过，”肖汉说——但购买空调改变了他们看待自己的方式。
“My children sleep in peace,” she said. “There was a sense of happiness from inside. There was a sense that father has done a great job.”
“孩子们睡得很香，”她说。“打心眼儿里有一种幸福感。觉得爸爸做了件大好事。”