Question:
问题：
What’s the best way to avoid a sore back from sitting at a computer all day?
坐在电脑前一整天，腰酸背痛，请问有办法避免吗？
Reader Question
读者提问
Answer:
回答：
One of the problems with office work is that many of us are using chairs that don’t fit our bodies very well or give adequate support to the back, said Jack Dennerlein, a professor at Northeastern’s Bouvé College of Health Sciences in Boston who specializes in ergonomics and safety. If you are experiencing back pain, you may be able to adjust your chair to increase its lumbar support. A good office chair will have an adjustable seat pan that you can slide back and forth as well as adjustable back and height features. First, sit in the chair so the lumbar region of your back, your lower back, is resting on the back support. At the same time, your feet should be resting comfortably on the ground and the back of your knees should be about three-finger widths from the edge of the chair, said Dr. Dennerlein.
“坐在办公室里工作的一个很大问题就是：许多人使用的座椅与身型不匹配，或不能为背部提供足够的支撑。”波士顿东北大学鲍维健康科学院(Northeastern’s Bouvé College of Health Sciences)专门从事人体工学及安全研究的杰克·登纳林(Jack Dennerlein)教授说：如果你正经受着背痛的折磨，你应当调整座椅使其能更好地支持腰椎部位。一个好的座椅，应当椅面可调，助你前倾或后仰，椅背和椅子的高度也应当可调。坐下时，首先将你的腰椎（背部下方）靠在椅子的后背支撑上。同时，双脚舒服地放在地面上，膝盖后部到座椅的距离应当为3根手指宽。
Some high-end chair brands have adjustable seat pans, including the Steelcase Leap chair, which retails for between $800 and $900 and offers an adjustable seat and plenty of lumbar support.
一些高端品牌的座椅具有可调整椅面，比如灵感办公室(Steelcase)的Leap办公椅，零售价在800-900美元。椅面可调，并提供足够的腰椎支持。
The Steelcase Criterion chair sells anywhere from $350 to $850 online, depending on the model, and boasts seven different adjustments “to offer support through the full range of dynamic seating postures.”
灵感办公室的Criterion办公椅网上售价为350-850美元不等（取决于型号）。它声称有7种调节模式，可以“为所有动态变化的坐姿提供身体支撑”。
The HumanScale Freedom chair is the winner of several design awards and also has an adjustable seat pan as well as “weight-sensitive recline, synchronously adjustable armrests, and dynamically positioned headrest.” ($400 to $1,400)
HumanScale公司生产的Freedom办公椅获得过各种设计大奖，它也有可调椅面，还具有“根据体重下斜、同步可调节的扶手，以及动态移位头枕”。（售价400-1400美元）
The Herman Miller Aeron chair is also popular because it comes in small, medium and large sizes and claims a PostureFit design that “supports the way your pelvis tilts naturally forward, so that your spine stays aligned and you avoid back pain.” ($680 to $850)
赫曼米勒(Herman Miller)公司的Aeron座椅同样也广受欢迎，因其有小、中、大三种型号可选，并宣称所使用的PostureFit设计“让你的骨盆自然前倾，脊柱保持直立，避免背痛”。（售价680-850美元）
If all that sounds really wonderful and really too expensive, there may be a simpler solution to ease your back pain at work. Invest $15 to $30 in a lumbar chair pillow to make sure your back is getting the support it needs even when you are not sitting in a $900 chair.
如果这些都看起来特别棒但可惜特别贵，那还有个简单的办法解决办公室型背痛。花15-30美元买一个腰部支撑靠垫，保证自己即使不坐在900美元的椅子上也能给腰椎以很好的支持。
Question:
问题：
What are good exercises for folks who spend much of their day sitting at a computer?
对于一天到晚坐在电脑前的人而言，什么运动最好？
Asked by Deborah
Deborah提问
Answer:
回答：
The answer is simple. Get up and move around frequently during the day. While you could do calisthenics in your cubicle or standing desk pushups, your co-workers may not appreciate your workout.
答案很简单：经常站起来走走。当然，你可以在办公小隔间里做体操或支着办公桌做俯卧撑，但你的同事大概不会很欣赏的。
Jack Dennerlein, a professor at Northeastern’s Bouvé College of Health Sciences in Boston who specializes in ergonomics and safety, suggests a variation on the 20-20-20 rule used to reduce eyestrain. In the case of the eyes, the rule is to take 20 seconds to look at something 20 feet away (instead of your computer), and repeat this every 20 minutes. But Dr. Dennerlein notes that this eye rule can be applied to movement as well. Every 20 minutes, walk 20 feet away for 20 seconds or more. Stop by a co-worker’s desk. Get a cup of coffee. Pace. Just don’t sit.
杰克·登纳林教授建议使用“改编版20-20-20减轻视疲劳法”（每过20分钟用20秒看20英尺[约6米]开外的东西[不是你电脑]）。登纳林说这个法则同样可运用在身体活动上：每20分钟走20英尺以上的距离。比如走到同事的办公桌前，或倒杯咖啡。随便走走，就是别坐着。
An interesting solution for both sore backs and a sedentary workday is the sit-stand workstation. (For more information about these stations, you can read the article “Taking a Stand for Office Ergonomics.”) Dr. Dennerlein said he now has one both at the office and at home and likes the effect it’s had on his work habits.
另外一种有意思的办法可以同时解决背痛和久坐不动带来的各种不适：坐站两用型工作台（推荐阅读：《办公室的人体工学——站着工作》）登纳林说他在办公室和家里各放了一台，而且非常喜欢它们给他的工作习惯带来的改变。
“It gets me moving around,” he said. “It keeps me varying my postures. When I stand at my desk, if I’ve got a thought I’ll walk around. Instead of just sitting and turning and looking at the window, if I’m already standing then I’ll walk over to the window and come back.”
“它让我能不时地活动身体，”他说，“使我不断改换姿势。当我站在桌子前时，一旦脑子里出现什么想法，我就来回走一走，而不是坐在椅子上转头看窗外。既然已经站着了，我就会直接走到窗前，再走回来。”
Dr. Dennerlein notes that standing for long periods of time is not good for you either. The key is to vary your work posture throughout the day. “Just keep moving and changing things around,” he said. “I think people should be empowered to make adjustments to see what feels right for them. And one thing that might feel comfortable in the morning might not feel comfortable in the afternoon.”
登纳林教授提到，长时间站立也未必是件好事，关键是要不断改变你工作时的姿势。“就是要不断活动，调整桌椅，”他说，“我认为大家应当有意识调整各种家具，感觉怎样是最舒适的。早上感觉舒服的位置，下午可就不一定了。”