So let us suppose, reader, that you have won Wednesday’s $1.5 billion Powerball jackpot. Congratulations! You have some important decisions to make, such as what ailing magazine to acquire and what congressional seat your spouse should run for. But first, you must choose whether to take the prize as an annuity paid over 30 years, or a lump-sum payment right now.
让我们假设一下，是您，本文读者，赢取了周三“强力球”彩票15亿美元的头奖，恭喜您！现在您得做些重大决定了，比如哪本病怏怏的杂志你要收购，或你的配偶哪个国会席位应去竞选。但首先你得选择，是以30年期年金形式领取奖金，还是以现在就一次付清的形式。
If I’m reading you right, you should probably take the annuity.
如果我看对你的心思，你应会选择年金。
First, some background: You might not realize this, but the top prize in the $1.5 billion Powerball is not actually $1.5 billion. (Nor is it $999 million, as many of the three-digit-readout lottery signs around the country say it is.) If you take the prize as a one-time cash payment, you will get a mere $930 million, before taxes.
首先，一些背景知识：你或许没有意识到，金额15亿美元的“强力球”头奖并非真是15亿美元（也不是全美许多写着三位液晶数彩票广告牌说的9.99亿美元）。要是你以现金支付方式一次领取奖金，你只得9.30亿美元，而且这是税前金额。
If you want $1.5 billion, you’ll have to take it in installments over the next 30 years. That’s a long time, and so most people take the cash, according to Kelly Cripe, a Powerball spokeswoman. But I think most of them are making a mistake, for the following reasons.
如果15亿美元你全要，那么你得以30年分期付款形式领取奖金。这时间是够长的，所以按“强力球”发言人凯利·克里普（Kelly Cripe）女士的说法，大多数人拿现金。但我觉得这些人大都错了，我的理由如下：
First, while people associate the term “annuity” with payment streams that end when you die, the Powerball prize is actually what actuaries call an annuity certain: a stream of annual payments, every year from now until 2045, regardless of what happens to you. If you die before 2045, the future payments become part of your estate, like any other asset.
第一，尽管有人把“年金”一词和那种你死便告终结的续供支付联系起来，但事实上，“强力球”奖金是保险精算师们所称的“固定年金”：即按年头支付的续供，从今年起到2045年年如此，不论你身上发生了什么事。你如果2045年前死去，那么未来支付部分将成为你财产的一部分，如同其他形式的资产。
Second, there are big tax advantages to the annuity. The main one is that taking the annuity is basically like letting the government hold onto part of your prize for a while and invest it for you — and the government does not pay tax on investment income. Of course, once you get the annuity checks, you’ll have to pay income tax on them. But if you take the lump-sum cash prize, you’ll pay tax twice: on the prize when you win it, and on the income you get by investing it.
第二，年金在税务上有很大便利。主要便利是，以年金形式领取，说白了就像是让政府把你的部分奖金先拿上一段时间，帮你投资——而政府是不必支付“投资收入税”的（译者：政府如果不用付“投资收入税”，那么政府以后退还你投资本金和利息时，也同样不需你支付这种税）。当然，一旦拿到年金支票，你还是需为此支付收入税的。但是，如果你一次性领取中奖现金，你需付两次税，一次在奖金上，另一次在把奖金用于投资所获得的收入上。
This adds up. If you invested all your prize money in the same way Powerball does (essentially by putting it in government bonds), you’d end up with 20 percent more cash in 2045 if you took the annuity option rather than the cash option, thanks to the tax savings. You could shave that difference by picking a different investment strategy with better tax management, but you’ll never beat the effective tax rate of zero on the investment income earned inside the Powerball annuity.
这是有道理的。如果你选择年金，那么当你按“强力球”机构同样的投资方式把自己全部奖金拿去投资时（基本上就是把它投进政府债券中去），其结果是，到2045年它将比选择现金多出20%的现金收益，而这一切都得益于省税。当然了，你也可挑别的、理税更佳的投资策略来削除这种差异。但是，就“强力球”年金这个范畴内赚取的投资收入而言，这种货真价实的零税率你是永远也比不过的。
On the other hand, there is a potential tax disadvantage with the annuity. If you die before it’s finished paying out, you can leave the future payments to your heirs, but the I.R.S. will want to collect estate tax right away on those payments’ future value. If you die shortly after getting the prize, you won’t have nearly enough cash on hand to satisfy the taxes due.
另一方面，年金也有一个潜在的税务劣势。如果你在支付终了之前去世，你是可把未来支付的那部分留给你的后代，但美国国税局对于这部分的未来价值，要立即收取财产税。这样一来，如果你才领奖就死去，你手头可能就没有足够的现金来满足税赋的需要。
Powerball’s website proposes a simple solution to this: If you die, Powerball can convert your annuity into a cash lump sum, so you can pay estate tax. However, it can only do that if it’s legal in the state where you bought the ticket. Texas, for example, has a law authorizing such conversions; New York does not. If your state won’t allow it, and you have reason to believe your life expectancy may be short, that is a strong argument for taking the lump sum.
“强力球”网站对这个问题给出了一个简单对策：如果你死去，“强力球”会把你的年金转换成一次性现金，这样你就能够付得了财产税。但条件是，这样做在你买彩票的州是合法的，如德州，它许可这种转换，而纽约州则不许。如果你的州不允许，且你也有理由相信自己寿命计日可期，那么拿一次性现金是一个太可以站得住脚的理由了。
Taxes aside, you’ll probably quibble with the pretax rate of return on the Powerball annuity. Effectively, it’s like investing in bonds that pay 2.843 percent interest. But that’s actually a good deal for an ultrasafe investment in today’s ultralow interest rate environment, said Allison Schrager, a financial economist with expertise in annuities.
就算不提德州，你可能还会和“强力球”年金的税前回报率过不去。事实上，它如同拿钱去投资回报利率为2.843%的债券一样。在年金方面有专长的金融类经济学家埃里森·施拉格（Allison Schrager）称，对于在当今超低利率环境下寻求一种“超稳”投资而言，这真可谓是桩好买卖。
Ms. Schrager noted that you’d pay big fees to an insurance company to build the same investment that Powerball is offering you, and because of those fees your effective interest rate would be even lower than 2.843 percent. As annuities go, this one is structured very favorably.
施拉格女士提到说，你自己建一套类似“强力球”提供你的投资方案，就得先给保险公司支付一大笔钱。而且，由于这些费用，你实际的利率甚至会低于2.843%。拿年金现行的运作来说，这种投资方案其实建构得是很有利的。
But what if you don’t want an ultrasafe investment? I don’t know all about your risk preferences, but I do know you buy lottery tickets. So maybe you’d prefer to take the cash option and gamble in the stock market for a higher average return. Or maybe you have a brilliant business idea ready to go and all you’ve been waiting for is the several hundred million dollars in investment capital you need to make it happen. Or maybe you want to buy the biggest house in the Hamptons, and the $22.6 million first-year annuity payment isn’t big enough to do that. If you want to go any of those routes, you’ll have to take the cash option.
但如果你就不想要“超稳”投资呢？我不了解你的风险偏好，但我了解你买彩票。所以，你或许还是愿意选择现金方式，在股市上赌一把更高的平均回报额；或许，你有个万事俱备的绝妙生意点子，全等那成好事儿的几亿美元投资金了；再要不，你想购买纽约长岛汉普顿（Hamptons）最大的房子，而第一年两千两百六十万的年金还差了些——如果你想走这其中的任何一条道儿，你就得选择现金方式了。
But this leads us to the biggest advantage of the annuity: protecting you from yourself.
但是，这也把我们指引到年金最大的优势上来：保护不被自己所伤害。
Again, I don’t know all about you, but I do know you buy lottery tickets, so let’s consider the possibility that you are not one of your generation’s great financial minds. We all know the stories of people who win huge fortunes in the lottery and then lose them. The great thing about the annuity is, no matter what stupid choices you make this year, you’ll have an enormous check waiting for you next year — all the way until 2045.
再一次，我不了解你，但我了解你买彩票。所以，我们假设一下这种可能：你还不是当代最伟大的金融达人。我们都知道那些先中彩票大运，后却将之遗失殆尽人们的故事。但年金的妙处在于，不论你今年做了多蠢的选择，来年还有一张巨额支票等着你——直到2045年。
The big advantage of the cash prize is flexibility, but let’s not underrate the value of the annuity’s inflexibility. Your Powerball win is likely to bring a lot of long-lost friends and relatives out of the woodwork with stories about why they need money. Being able to tell them that this year’s check is only for $22.6 million, and that’s really not very much after taxes and the new mansion and the summer house and the cars and the boats and the new political magazine, will help you conserve your fortune.
现金奖最大的优势在于其灵活性，但也别低估了年金的非灵活性。你中的“强力球”奖很有可能会把你的好些个长久失联的亲戚朋友从隐秘居所招出来，人手一个他们为何需钱的故事。要是你能够做到讲给他们听，今年支票仅有两千两百六十万美元，去掉税钱，再有新豪宅、度假屋、汽车游艇和新接手的政治期刊的钱，剩下的真没多少了，那么，这能帮你储存好你的财富。
As a Powerball winner, you’ve already done way better than you could reasonably have expected with your investment strategy. Don’t press your luck. Take the annuity.
作为“强力球”赢家，以你的投资战略，你做得已经比你按常理预期的不知好到哪里去了。见好就收，就拿年金吧。