Her perseverance often awes me. Her arrogance sometimes galls me. And her particular braid of high-mindedness and high-handedness almost always leaves me puzzled and exhausted.
她的毅力往往让我心生敬畏。她的傲慢有时会让我感到恼火。而她独特的、夹杂在一起的高尚和专横几乎总是会让我困惑不已，疲惫不堪。
But what I’ve been feeling for and about Hillary Clinton over the last week is sadness. Does she have even a smidgen of privacy left? Can she utter a syllable or think a thought with any assurance that it won’t be exposed, analyzed, ridiculed?
但在过去一周，关于希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，我只能为她感到悲伤。她还有一丁点隐私吗？她的每一句话，每一个念头，都要被曝光，被分析，被嘲笑吗？
When she was talking decades ago with Diane Blair, whose journals are part of “The Hillary Papers,” she no doubt assumed an audience of one: her dear friend. Her best friend. But this corner of Hillary’s life, like every other, has now been put on public display. Get as close as you like. Gawk. Judge.
多年前和黛安·布莱尔(Diane Blair)交谈时，她无疑以为自己只有一个听众，那就是她的密友。她最好的朋友。但现在，布莱尔的日记成了“希拉里文件”(The Hillary Papers)的一部分。如同生活中的其他所有角落一样，希拉里生活中的这个角落被置于公众面前。你和她的距离想有多近，就有多近，去窥视她，评判她。
I’m not suggesting that The Washington Free Beacon, the news site that presented “The Hillary Papers,” did anything unusual or wrong. By recognizing that an archive of documents at the University of Arkansas hadn’t received much scrutiny and going through it, The Free Beacon provided candid, intimate glimpses of the Clintons that hadn’t existed before. This was indeed a scoop, one that many other media organizations would have been happy to trumpet.
我并不是说发布了“希拉里文件”的新闻网站“华盛顿自由灯塔”(Washington Free Beacon)这么做不对或有违常理。该网站意识到阿肯色大学(University of Arkansas)的文件档案没有得到太多关注，并且仔细阅读了这些文件，随后提供了有关克林顿夫妇真实且私密的信息。此前是没有这些信息的。这也的确是其他许多媒体机构都乐于大肆宣传的独家新闻。
But to absorb it in the context of the endless drip-drip-drip about Hillary over the years was to worry that we’ve lost sight of any boundaries and limits — that maybe even Hillary herself has stopped hoping for anything kinder. When the archive was opened to the public in 2010, she gave a tribute to Blair, who died in 2000.
但这些年来，对希拉里的指责无穷无尽，在这种背景下理解此事，我们便有理由担心，目前已经看不到任何界限和限制了——或许连希拉里本人也已不再指望能有什么对自己更友好的事情了。当相关档案在2010年被向公众开放时，希拉里向已在2000年去世的布莱尔表示了哀悼。
Details in the documents were fresh. Most of the truths they fleshed out weren’t. We already knew that Hillary had found tortured rationales for Bill’s infidelities. We already knew that her compromised brand of feminism accommodated the vilification of women who dared to threaten the couple’s purchase on power.
相关文件中的细节是之前不为人所知的。但它们描述的大部分事实却并非如此。我们之前就已经知道，希拉里为比尔(Bill)的不忠找了令人纠结的托辞。我们也已经知道，希拉里版本的女性主义有所妥协，允许自己去丑化那些胆敢威胁到他们夫妇的权力地位的女性。
What’s at least as interesting is what the documents say about the political arena that the Clintons inhabit: the toll it takes, the cynics it makes. Early in her White House years, Hillary’s guard has already gone up. Blair chats with Janet Reno, Bill Clinton’s attorney general, and writes, in April 1993, that while “Janet wants to connect” with Hillary, she “finds HC a ‘mask.’ ”
至少同样有意思的是相关文件对克林顿夫妇所在的政治舞台的描述：为它付出的代价，以及它造就的那些不再相信道德的人。从白宫生活的早期开始，希拉里就提高了警惕。布莱尔曾和比尔·克林顿任内的司法部长珍妮特·雷诺(Janet Reno)聊天，并在1993年4月写道，当“珍妮特希望和希拉里敞开心扉”时，她“发现希拉里‘戴着面具’”。
This is even before the fever pitch of impeachment and the Starr Report in all its lurid detail and the sustained analysis of every provisional hairstyle and the millions of pages by authors determined to turn her into a symbol of this, that or the other. She has been called a Rorschach, but as I read “The Hillary Papers,” I couldn’t stop thinking of her as a carcass. With a tireless zest, we pick her clean.
其实，早在克林顿的弹劾案和充满了耸人听闻细节的《斯塔尔报告》(Starr Report)引发轰动之前，也早在对她的每一个新发型的持续分析和那些决意要把她变成某种标志的作者写就的数百万页内容面世之前，情况就已是如此。她被称作是一个罗夏(Rorschach)测试。但在阅读“希拉里文件”时，我忍不住把她当做一具尸骸，我们以不懈的热情把她啃得干干净净。
The latest book about her, “HRC,” by the journalists Jonathan Allen and Amie Parnes, was published last week. It focuses on recent years, and is flattering: The Hillary here is resourceful and diligent and has enough guile and grace to win over the people whom she sets out to.
上周，乔纳森·艾伦(Jonathan Allen)和埃米·艾伦(Amie Parnes)这两名记者出版了合著的《HRC》。这是距今最近的有关希拉里的书。该书主要关注的是最近几年，对她的描写颇为友善：现在的希拉里足智多谋、勤勤恳恳，而且，她的狡猾和优雅足以让她说服那些她需要拉拢的人。
She’s also obsessed with loyalty, which governs her decisions, leading to bad ones. That’s perhaps inevitable when you’ve been so thoroughly peered and poked at. You do your damnedest to carve out a safe space.
她还迷恋忠诚。忠诚支配着她的决策，也导致她做了一些不明智的决断。当你被这么彻底地窥视和指指点点时，这或许是不可避免的。你要尽自己最大的努力，才能开拓出一个安全的空间。
Blair was surely supposed to be that, and it’s not clear why she was taking notes or what she intended to do with them. It’s also not clear that the Hillary in those notes is the truest one. With our friends, yes, we bare our souls. But we also let off steam, allowing ourselves a theatricality and sloppiness that exaggerate our emotions.
希拉里无疑以为布莱尔就是这样一种人。目前尚不清楚她为何做笔记，也不清楚她原本打算如何处理这些笔记，同样不清楚的是，这些笔记里的希拉里是不是最真实的希拉里。不错，我们会在朋友面前裸露自己的灵魂。不过，我们也会在朋友面前宣泄情绪，暴露出我们歇斯底里和粗心散漫的一面，我们的情绪会因此受到夸大了。
Blair’s journals are the kind of material from which biographies and histories have long been woven. But it doesn’t always surface so soon, and it is now augmented by the eavesdropping and tattling of cabinet secretaries (see “Duty,” by Robert Gates) and political allies and handlers eager to make themselves look better, even at a benefactor’s expense (see “Game Change” and the robust genre to which it belongs).
布莱尔的日记就属于这么一种材料，长久以来，传记和历史都是靠这类材料撰写而成的。不过，它并不会总是这么早就浮出水面，目前它的影响力也被扩大了，原因是内阁部长之间曝出了互相偷听和打小报告的情节（参见罗伯特·盖茨[Robert Gates]的书《责任》[Duty]），还因为政治盟友和顾问们为了让自己的形象看上去更冠冕堂皇，甚至不介意贬损往日出手相助的人（参见《选情告急》[Game Change]及同题材影片）。
Frenzied media feed on this, to a degree that arguably goes beyond our obligation to keep politicians honest, and it’s troubling in two regards. How many decent, gifted people who contemplate public office look at what someone like Hillary endures and step away? And the people who aren’t scared off: How cold and hard are they, or how cold and hard do they become?
疯狂的媒体对此抓住不放，简直超出了其监督政治人物品行的职责范围，这在两方面令人不安。有多少想要谋求公职，而且正派、有才干的人，在看到希拉里等人所承受的一切之后会放弃努力？那些没有被吓跑的人：他们有多么冷酷无情，或者他们会变得多么冷酷无情了？
“HRC” recalls that just after the 2008 presidential election, a photo came to light of one of Barack Obama’s speechwriters, Jon Favreau, pretending to cup the breast of a cardboard cutout of Hillary. The image is shocking, but then again not. For a good long while, we’ve done with Hillary as we pleased, frequently looking past her humanity, routinely running roughshod over her secrets. She has gained so much — tremendous influence, significant riches — but lost so much, too. Was that the bargain she expected? Has she made peace with it?
《HRC》一书中回忆说，2008年总统大选刚结束的时候，奥巴马的演讲稿写手乔恩·法夫罗(Jon Favreau)的一张照片被曝光，照片中法夫罗把手放在希拉里的人形纸板上、假装托着她的胸部。这张照片令人震惊，但又并非如此。长时间以来，我们对待希拉里的方式一直随心所欲，我们常常无视她的谦逊，习惯性地践踏她的隐私。她有如此多的成就——巨大的影响力、庞大的财富——但也失去了很多。这是她期待的结果吗？她是否已经心平气和地接受了这一切？