LOS ANGELES — AS children return to school this fall and sign up for a new year’s worth of extracurricular activities, parents should keep one question in mind. Whether your kid loves Little League or gymnastics, ask the program organizers this: “Which kids get awards?” If the answer is, “Everybody gets a trophy,” find another program.
洛杉矶——秋天来临之际，当孩子们回到学校，报名参加新一年的课外活动时，家长需要留意一点。不管你的孩子喜不喜欢小联盟(Litte League)或体操，都得问项目组织者一个问题，“哪些孩子能得奖？”如果回答是“每个人都有奖杯”，那就换别的项目。
Trophies were once rare things — sterling silver loving cups bought from jewelry stores for truly special occasions. But in the 1960s, they began to be mass-produced, marketed in catalogs to teachers and coaches, and sold in sporting-goods stores.
奖杯曾经是个稀罕物——从珠宝行买来的标准纯银双耳杯，用于真正特殊的场合。但是到了20世纪60年代，奖杯开始被批量生产，用导购图册推销给教师和教练，并被放在体育用品商店里出售。
Today, participation trophies and prizes are almost a given, as children are constantly assured that they are winners. One Maryland summer program gives awards every day — and the “day” is one hour long. In Southern California, a regional branch of the American Youth Soccer Organization hands out roughly 3,500 awards each season — each player gets one, while around a third get two. Nationally, A.Y.S.O. local branches typically spend as much as 12 percent of their yearly budgets on trophies.
在今天，参与性奖杯和奖金几乎就是必需品，我们不断向孩子们说明他们是获胜者。马里兰州一个暑期项目每天都发奖——而这个“天”的长度为一小时。在南加利福尼亚，美国青年足球组织(American Youth Soccer Organization)一个地区分支机构每个赛季要颁发大约3500个奖——每个球员都有一个奖，大概三分之一的人能拿到两个。全国范围内，青足组织在各地的分支通常需要把年预算的12%用在奖杯上。
It adds up: trophy and award sales are now an estimated $3 billion-a-year industry in the United States and Canada.
这个数字是可靠的：在美国和加拿大，奖杯和奖项现在是一个年销售额达30亿美元的产业。
Po Bronson and I have spent years reporting on the effects of praise and rewards on kids. The science is clear. Awards can be powerful motivators, but nonstop recognition does not inspire children to succeed. Instead, it can cause them to underachieve.
珀·布朗森(Po Bronson)和我多年来一直在报道这种对孩子的奖励和夸赞所造成的后果。这里面的原理很清楚。奖励可以带来很强大的激励力量，但无休止地认可并不能激发孩子去实现自己。反倒会令他们无法充分发挥。
Carol Dweck, a psychology professor at Stanford University, found that kids respond positively to praise; they enjoy hearing that they’re talented, smart and so on. But after such praise of their innate abilities, they collapse at the first experience of difficulty. Demoralized by their failure, they say they’d rather cheat than risk failing again.
斯坦福大学(Stanford University)心理学教授卡罗尔·德韦克(Carol Dweck)发现，孩子对夸赞的反应是积极的；他们喜欢听到别人说他们有才华、聪明等等。但是经过这种对天赋能力的赞扬后，他们会在初次面对困难时垮掉。被失败挫伤信心后，他们宁肯作弊也不愿甘冒再次失败的危险。
In recent eye-tracking experiments by the researchers Bradley Morris and Shannon Zentall, kids were asked to draw pictures. Those who heard praise suggesting they had an innate talent were then twice as fixated on mistakes they’d made in their pictures.
研究人员布拉德利·莫里斯(Bradley Morris)和香农·赞塔尔(Shannon Zentall)在一项跟踪眼球活动的实验中要求孩子画画。那些被赞扬有天赋的孩子，对他们在画中犯下的错误会加倍地在意。
By age 4 or 5, children aren’t fooled by all the trophies. They are surprisingly accurate in identifying who excels and who struggles. Those who are outperformed know it and give up, while those who do well feel cheated when they aren’t recognized for their accomplishments. They, too, may give up.
孩子到了4、5岁的时候就不会被奖杯骗到了。他们会分辨谁是杰出的、谁是不行的，精准度超乎想象。那些被比下去的很清楚这一点，并且会放弃，而那些表现出众的人，一旦成就没有得到认可就会有被骗的感觉。为此，他们也可能会放弃。
It turns out that, once kids have some proficiency in a task, the excitement and uncertainty of real competition may become the activity’s very appeal.
实际上，一旦孩子在某件事上有了一些心得，真实竞争的刺激和不确定性也许恰恰就成了这种活动的魅力所在。
If children know they will automatically get an award, what is the impetus for improvement? Why bother learning problem-solving skills, when there are never obstacles to begin with?
如果孩子知道，他们铁定会拿到一个奖，进步的动力在哪里呢？既然根本就没有什么困难可言，为什么还要那么麻烦去学习解决问题的技巧？
If I were a baseball coach, I would announce at the first meeting that there would be only three awards: Best Overall, Most Improved and Best Sportsmanship. Then I’d hand the kids a list of things they’d have to do to earn one of those trophies. They would know from the get-go that excellence, improvement, character and persistence were valued.
如果我是一个棒球教练，我会在第一次集合的时候说，总共只有三个奖：综合最佳、进步最大和竞技精神最佳。然后我会给孩子们一张清单，列举他们要做些什么来赢得那些奖杯。这样他们从一开始就知道优秀、进步、作风和坚持是有价值的东西。
It’s accepted that, before punishing children, we must consider their individual levels of cognitive and emotional development. Then we monitor them, changing our approach if there’s a negative outcome. However, when it comes to rewards, people argue that kids must be treated identically: everyone must always win. That is misguided. And there are negative outcomes. Not just for specific children, but for society as a whole.
在惩罚孩子之前，我们必须考虑到他们各自的认知和情感发育水平，这是有共识的。然后我们要观察他们，一旦出现负面的效果，我们要改变我们的方法。然而在给予奖励方面，有人认为孩子应该被等同对待：每个人都必须永远是赢家。这是受到误导了。而且是会有负面效果的。不只是对具体某个孩子，还包括对整个社会。
In June, an Oklahoma Little League canceled participation trophies because of a budget shortfall. A furious parent complained to a local reporter, “My children look forward to their trophy as much as playing the game.” That’s exactly the problem, says Jean Twenge, author of “Generation Me.”
由于预算削减，俄克拉何马小联盟(Oklahoma Little League)在6月取消了参与奖杯。一个愤怒的家长向当地记者控诉道，“我的孩子们对奖杯有着跟比赛一样的渴望。”《我世代》(Generation Me)一书作者简·特文奇(Jean Twenge)说，这正是问题所在。
Having studied recent increases in narcissism and entitlement among college students, she warns that when living rooms are filled with participation trophies, it’s part of a larger cultural message: to succeed, you just have to show up. In college, those who’ve grown up receiving endless awards do the requisite work, but don’t see the need to do it well. In the office, they still believe that attendance is all it takes to get a promotion.
在研究了近年大学生中自恋和理所当然的优越感的膨胀趋势后，她警告说，当客厅里摆满了参与奖杯时，这个做法也就构成了一种宽泛的文化启示：想成功，你只需要露面就行了。在大学，那些从小不断受到表扬的孩子会去做必需的作业，但不觉得应该把它们做好。在职场，他们依然认为只需要保持出勤就可以升职了。
In life, “you’re going to lose more often than you win, even if you’re good at something,” Ms. Twenge told me. “You’ve got to get used to that to keep going.”
在生活中，“就算你擅长做某些事，你遭遇的失败还是会比成功多，”特文奇对我说，“要想继续走下去，你得习惯失败。”
When children make mistakes, our job should not be to spin those losses into decorated victories. Instead, our job is to help kids overcome setbacks, to help them see that progress over time is more important than a particular win or loss, and to help them graciously congratulate the child who succeeded when they failed. To do that, we need to refuse all the meaningless plastic and tin destined for landfills. We have to stop letting the Trophy-Industrial Complex run our children’s lives.
孩子犯了错，我们该做的不是把失败粉饰成胜利。我们的职责是帮助孩子克服挫败，帮他们认识到取得进步要比具体的胜负更重要，当他们失败时，要帮他们大度地去祝贺获胜者。要想做到这一点，我们必须拒绝那些注定要扔进垃圾堆的、毫无意义的塑料和铁皮玩意儿。我们不能再让这个奖杯产业综合体左右孩子的人生了。
This school year, let’s fight for a kid’s right to lose.
这个学年，让我们为孩子失败的权利而战。