Casting a glance skyward in Manhattan these days may include the risk of beholding not sky but horizontal appendages that curve and jut outward from the sides of residential towers and hover like geometric mutants above the roofs of vertically challenged neighbors, inhabiting space once occupied by open air.
近些天来，抬头看一眼曼哈顿的天空可要冒点风险，可能你看到的并非天空，而是那些水平伸展的建筑附属物。它们从公寓大楼的侧立面上弯弯曲曲地伸出来，如同几何变异体一般悬停、压迫在邻居的屋顶上，占据了一度露天的空间。
Typically built of glass and steel and suspended in midair, they are not optical illusions. In fact, they are vista-grabbing, profit-generating cantilevers the likes of which Frank Lloyd Wright probably did not contemplate in 1935 when he designed a rural residence known as Fallingwater, which levitated, with assistance from cantilevers, above a 30-foot waterfall in Mill Run, Pa. Wright cantilevered for the aesthetic thrill of it. Piers and bridges cantilever for the sake of a design imperative. The cantilevered entrance of the former IBM building at 590 Madison Avenue, designed by Edward Larrabee Barnes & Associates, continues to be a piece of modernist eye candy that wows passers-by.
这些悬停在半空中、通常以玻璃和钢铁建造的建筑体可并非是视学幻象。实际上，它们是一些前景可观、利润丰厚的悬臂建筑。这类悬臂(cantilever)，或许是弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)在1935年设计著名的“落水山庄”(Fallingwater)乡村住宅时，完全没有想到的。那栋房屋就是借由几只悬臂的力量，悬置在宾夕法尼亚州Mill Run小镇一处30英尺（约9米）高的瀑布上。赖特当初运用悬臂，是为了满足这处住宅的审美快感；码头和桥梁使用悬臂，则是因为设计上必须如此。而在麦迪逊大道上，由Edward Larrabee Barnes & Associates建筑事务所设计的前IBM大厦的悬臂式大门，却一直是现代主义者的心头好，让路过之人每每发出惊叹。
But the escalating popularity of cantilevers in luxury residential (and some commercial) developments is apparently driven by — what else? — economics. With “bigger is better” the prevailing mantra among developers, cantilevers are getting bigger, too: superior apartment layouts are the desired endgame.
但是在豪华公寓楼（以及一些商务楼）的开发过程中，悬臂设计不断上升的人气显然是受到了——还能有什么呢？——经济因素的驱使。随着“越大越好”这句口头禅在开发商中的日益盛行，悬臂也越做越大了：超大户型的公寓，成为人们趋之若鹜的终极结局。
Enabled by advances in technology — structural steel and reinforced concrete have conspired to make load-bearing walls virtually obsolete — cantilevers are the unsurprising sequel to the towers born of air-rights transfers, made feasible by a tweak to the city’s zoning codes in 1961 that established density quotas for every neighborhood. Small properties that wished to stay that way could sell their excess rights to developers, and piles of such transfers resulted in some very tall residential buildings, like One57, 845 United Nations Plaza and 432 Park Avenue.
结构用钢材与钢筋混凝土已经联手将承重墙几乎淘汰出局。这样的技术进步，使悬臂成为那些高楼大厦理所当然的后续发展。1961年时对规定了每个社区容积率的纽约区划法所做的一处小小修改，使领空开发权(air-rights)的转移成为可能，继而催生出那些高层建筑。愿意保持原样的小面积房产，可以把它们多余的权利卖给开发商；而这类权利的大批转移，最终就导致一些非常高的住宅建筑横空出世，比如One57、联合国广场845号(845 United Nations Plaza)和公园大道432号(432 Park Avenue)。
But why stop at building taller, when the opportunity presents itself to build wider via extensions into a neighbor’s unused airspace?
但是，如果有机会将建筑规模扩展到邻近住宅未使用的空间里、将大楼建得更宽，开发商们为何还会止步于仅仅把大楼建得高一些呢？
Cantilevers can be expensive and difficult to construct; some require support columns along the lines of the traditional flying buttress. But their ultimate cost-effectiveness is determined by the added square footage, and upgraded views, they bring to a project. Their advocates are not shy in pointing out that transfer fees are a source of serious income to properties willing to relinquish their option for future expansion. So long as they don’t violate density quotas, and hover at a respectable distance above the neighbor’s roof, cantilevers are also architectural catnip because they reward creativity.
因为，悬臂可能造价不菲，而且很难修建，一些悬臂还要求沿着传统飞拱(flying buttress)搭建支撑柱。但是悬臂最终的成本效益，取决于它们为某个项目带来的额外建筑面积，以及提升的景观。悬臂的拥护者们并不羞于指出，转移费是那些愿意放弃未来扩建权的房产的一项重要收入。只要它们不违反容积率的规定，并且在相邻建筑屋顶上方的悬停距离适当，那么悬臂也能成为建筑业的猫薄荷，因为它们也奖励创造力。
“In New York, development is a three-dimensional chess game,” said Dan Kaplan, a senior partner at FXFowle Architects, “and the reason we’re seeing an increase in the use of cantilevers above neighboring buildings is linked to the complexity of finding a site that can utilize all available development rights.”
“在纽约，房产开发恰似一场三维象棋游戏，”FXFowle建筑公司的高级合伙人丹·卡普兰(Dan Kaplan)说，“我们正眼见着附近建筑物的上空用到越来越多的悬臂，这是因为，要想寻找一处能利用到所有可用开发权的建筑地块，选址工作的复杂性就会很大。”
FXFowle incorporated a pair of eight-foot cantilevers at the Isis, 303 East 77th Street, a condo developed by Alchemy Properties. For Alchemy’s new project, 35XV, FXFowle employed two cantilevers: the first extends west 17 feet into the airspace above Xavier High School, and the second projects 36 feet to the north over a rear courtyard.
在东77街303号，在由房地产公司Alchemy Properties开发的一栋名为Isis的共管公寓大楼上，FXFowle公司安装了一对8英尺（约2.4米）长的悬臂；他们还为Alchemy的新项目35XV启用了两条悬臂：第一条向西伸出17英尺（约5米），进入泽维尔高中(Xavier High School)的领空，第二条则向北伸出36英尺（约11米），悬停在一户人家后院的上方。
“The school wanted to monetize its transferable development rights,” Mr. Kaplan said, and Alchemy needed them to make its project viable.
“这所学校想将其可转移的开发权货币化，”卡普兰说，而Alchemy公司需要这些开发权，以便让该项目有利可图。
In a sense, the cantilever is the urban iteration of the suburban dormer: it is both space-stretcher and brightener. According to Gerry Davis, an Alchemy principal, the cantilevers at 35XV account for some 40 percent of the square footage, in addition to providing improved views and a diversity of layouts. The building has 59 residential units on Floors 8 through 24. Alchemy paid $13.7 million for Xavier’s development rights.
从某种意义上来说，悬臂是乡村房屋上老虎窗(dormer)在都市中的再现：这种结构不但扩展了空间，而且有利于采光。据Alchemy的负责人格里·戴维斯(Gerry Davis)说，35XV的两条悬臂承载了大约40%的建筑面积，而且提供了更好的景观，以及多元化的外观设计。这栋建筑的第8层到第24层共有59套公寓单元。Alchemy公司为泽维尔高中出让的开发权支付了1370万美元（约合人民币8293万元）。
“In the 1920s they used to build straight up, with wedding-cake-type setbacks,” Mr. Kaplan added. “But with a cantilever, we can build outward as well as up, and in kind of an inversion of the wedding-cake theme, the floors are bigger toward the top, where space is more valuable.
“在20世纪20年代，他们通常会建造笔直的高楼，设计得如同婚礼蛋糕般逐层变窄，”卡普兰补充说，“但有了悬臂之后，我们不但能向上扩展，而且能向外扩展。通过这种倒婚礼蛋糕式的设计，越往上楼面越大，空间也就越有价值。”
“I picture it like a tree, where the trunk is the footprint and the building branches out above,” he said. “The ingenuity in the process, from a developer’s point of view, is to take full advantage of every potential dimension a site has to offer, and the cantilever is a key strategy in that regard.”
“我形容这种设计就像一颗树，树干是占地面积，而建筑在上层扩展开来，”他说，“其间的精妙之处，从开发商的角度来看，就是充分利用一处选址所能提供的每个潜在维度，就此而言，悬臂的运用是个重要策略。”
An optimally functioning cantilever is an essential design element, not an afterthought. Describing 35XV, Kenneth S. Horn, the president of Alchemy Properties, said, “The first cantilever begins 85 to 90 feet above the ground, and by virtue of the way it’s constructed, when you’re inside your apartment, you’ll literally feel like you can reach out and grab the Empire State Building.”
一条功能良好的悬臂是一个关键的设计元素，而非画蛇添足。Alchemy地产的总裁肯尼斯·S·霍恩(Kenneth S. Horn)描述35XV的时候说，“第一条悬臂在地面以上85至90英尺（约26至27米）的地方开始建造，鉴于悬臂的这种建造方式，当你待在自己的公寓里，感觉好像一伸手就能抓住帝国大厦一样。”
The Extell Development Company has plans for the air, too. Its tower at 225 West 57th Street is to cantilever above an 1890s landmark, the Art Students League, to accommodate a 1,423-foot residential tower anchored by New York City’s first Nordstrom department store.
房地产开发公司Extell也有建造悬臂的计划。该公司在西57街225号建造的高楼，将把一条悬臂伸到一座19世纪90年代的地标式建筑——艺术学生联盟(the Art Students League)的上方，以容纳一栋高达1423英尺（约434米）、下有纽约市第一家诺德斯特姆(Nordstrom)百货商店坐镇的公寓楼。
Still, whether the cantilevers boldly sprouting all over town are marvels of architectural and engineering ingenuity or capricious eyesores inflicted by developers remains in the eye of the beholder.
尽管如此，大批在纽约市各处横空出世的悬臂，究竟是建筑艺术上的奇迹和建造工程中的匠心，还是开发商肆意强加给人们的眼中钉，在旁观者眼中各有千秋。
The Nordstrom cantilever (Extell’s first) passed muster with the Landmarks Preservation Commission after Gary Barnett, Extell’s president, testified that it was an essential element of the design. One dissenting commissioner, however, referred to it as a gimmick.
Extell公司设计的第一条悬臂应用于诺德斯特姆大楼(Nordstrom)。在Extell总裁盖里·巴奈特(Gary Barnett)作证其为此项设计的一个关键元素之后，这条悬臂便通过了地标建筑保护委员会(Landmarks Preservation Commission)的检查。然而，一位持有异议的委员却称其为一个骗人的玩意儿。
There has also been grumbling about the 24-foot cantilever built by Toll Brothers City Living at 160 East 22nd Street, a 21-story, 81-unit condominium. The cantilever starts at the sixth floor and hangs above a pair of townhouses (neither is a landmark). The additional square footage allowed the developer to include an extra line of apartments.
还有人窃窃私语地讨论着纽约高档住宅开发商托尔兄弟城市生活(Toll Brothers City Living)在东22街160号建造的一条24英尺（约7.3米）的悬臂，应用于一栋含有81个单元的21层共管公寓大楼内。这条悬臂从六楼开始，悬停在两栋皆非地标式建筑的联排别墅上方。由此增加的建筑面积，让开发商多建出一列公寓单元。
“Some people may not like it,” said David Von Spreckelsen, the president of the City Living division. “But I think it adds an interesting modern component, and with people not willing to sell their property to you, but willing to sell their air rights, the cantilever almost becomes a necessity.”
“有些人可能不喜欢它，”城市生活的部门总裁大卫·冯·斯普里克森(David Von Spreckelsen)说道。“但我认为，悬臂为建筑物增加了一种有趣的现代元素，人们虽不愿把房产卖给你，却愿意出售他们的领空开发所有权。所以，悬臂几乎成了一种必不可少的设计。”
Cantilevers may be yet another fact of life in a city with a shortage of logical building sites but a seemingly inexhaustible appetite for new housing stock.
在合理的建筑地块短缺、但人们对新增住房存量的胃口似乎总是沟壑难填的情况下，悬臂可能也是都市生活中又一个无可避免的现实。
“They were more commonly in the back of buildings and out of view,” said Vin Cipolla, the president of the Municipal Art Society. “But with fewer highly desirable sites available, they’re popping up to grab eye-popping views and are becoming integral design features. Design matters — so is this good design? And what about environmental impact? There needs to be an understanding of these hyper-tall buildings and their effect on the streetscape.”
“它们更多的时候位于建筑物的身后，在人们的视野之外，”市政艺术协会(Municipal Art Society)的主席文·奇波拉(Vin Cipolla)说，“但是，随着非常理想的地理位置日渐稀少，它们就会不断涌现，擎起那些令人大跌眼镜的景观，成为整体建筑的设计特征。设计是至关重要的——那么，它们是优秀的设计吗？环境影响又怎么办呢？人们对于这些超高建筑及它们对街道景观的影响，需要有所认知。”
When New York City began selling the rights to its airspace in earnest in the last few decades, the objective of the developers who bought them was usually to push the skyscraper envelope. Buy the unused air rights of stodgy structures next door, and suddenly a 25-story project on a lot of less-than-lordly proportions could attain impressive heights.
当纽约市过去几十年来积极出售其领空开发权时，买下那些权利的开发商们，通常意在挑战摩天大楼的高度极限。他们买下隔壁老式建筑未经使用的领空开发权，然后忽然之间，一栋25层高的大厦就能在一块算不上气派的地块上达到令人惊叹的高度。
But what happens when vertical limitations are imposed on an already constricted or less-than-perfectly situated building site? What happens when a developer has spent millions of dollars on air rights to bolster a project and needs to find a way to use them that doesn’t offend a neighborhood’s contextual height and zoning codes?
但是，当垂直高度的限制被施加在一处已经饱受约束或选址不太完美的建筑地点上时，会出现什么情况呢？当一位开发商已经花费数百万美元，来购买领空开发权以便提升一个项目，并需要找到一种方式来行使这一权利，同时又要保证不侵犯邻居的周边环境高度及区划法规时，又会出现什么情况？
Cantilevers happen.
悬臂应运而生。
“Cantilevers are being done around the city, very often in nonlandmarked areas,” Mr. Barnett said, “because there are a lot of places with height limitations, and cantilevering can get you a better layout and a larger floor plate.”
“纽约市到处都在建悬臂，尤其是在一些非地标建筑区域，”巴奈特说，“因为许多地方都有高度限制，而悬臂能让你获得更好的布局，和更大面积的楼面板(floor plate)。”
“In our case,” he continued, “the constraint was that we needed to accommodate Nordstrom, which is used to a wide-open, suburban-style layout. It wasn’t critical to cantilever for the residential portion of the project, but we needed to give Nordstrom the largest possible floor plate, and as it turns out, the cantilever gives the apartments a bit better view shot, too.”
“在我们的项目中，”他继续说，“局限就在于我们需要让诺德斯特姆妥善入驻。这家百货商店过去一直是乡村风格的开放式布局。对于这条悬臂，紧要的不是项目中的住宅部分，而是我们需要给诺德斯特姆提供最大可能的楼板面积。于是乎，这条悬臂也为那些公寓提供了更好的视野。”
On top of the original $23 million it spent for air rights, Extell paid the league nearly $30 million for the privilege of adding the cantilever. “I wouldn’t call it a donation,” Mr. Barnett said, “but I guess I’m happy it will assist an important and historic arts institution in making a huge chunk of some sorely needed repairs.”
Extell公司最初花了2300万美元（约合人民币1.4亿元）购买领空开发权；为得到增建悬臂的权利，他们又向联合会支付了将近3000万美元（约合人民币1.8亿元）。“我不愿称之为一笔捐款，”巴奈特说，“但我想，让我高兴的是，这笔可以帮助一个重要而有历史意义的机构进行大量很有必要的修复工作。”
He added that the Nordstrom cantilever definitely wouldn’t be Extell’s last. Other developers are on the same wavelength.
他补充说，诺德斯特姆大楼的这条悬臂，肯定不会是Extell建造的最后一条。其他开发商也有同样的想法。
Of late, what’s showing up at developments around Manhattan (and at 64 Bayard opposite McCarren Park in Brooklyn) is a profusion of cantilevers that exponentially expand square footage and can also, thanks to lot-line easements, legally transform unexceptional one- or two-bedroom units into three-bedroom beauties with fabulous light and, often, uniquely positioned outdoor space. The cantilevers at 56 Leonard Street in TriBeCa, a 57-story condominium that doesn’t have a single terrace overshadowed by that of its immediate upstairs neighbor, epitomize that innovation. (The tower, designed by Herzog & de Meuron, paid New York Law School $150 million for land and air rights.)
最近，曼哈顿周边（以及布鲁克林区麦克伦公园[McCarren Park]对面的贝阿德街64号[64 Bayard]）出现了悬臂云集的发展态势。这些悬臂不但以指数方式扩大了建筑面积，而且，要感谢地界线地役权（在英美法系里，地役权[Easement]是指使用他人土地或限制他人使用土地的一种有限权利——译注），它们还能合法地把普通的单卧室或双卧室公寓单元，改造为美轮美奂的三卧室住宅，不但提供了充足的光线，而且常常有位置独特的户外空间。翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)的莱昂纳德街56号是一栋57层的共管公寓大楼，那里没有一座阳台被其楼上的邻居挡住阳光。该大楼的悬臂，正是这种创新设计的典型例子（这栋楼由Herzog & de Meuron公司设计，他们为这片地块和领空开发权，向纽约法学院[New York Law School]共支付了1.5亿美元[约合人民币9.1亿元]）。
At 64 Bayard, a 53-unit rental with two 16-foot cantilevers, “it turned out to be an absolute home run for the developer, because each apartment in the cantilever has amazing views of Manhattan,” said William Ross, a managing director of Halstead Property Development Marketing.
在位于贝阿德街 64号的一栋有53个单元、并带两条16英尺（约4.9米）悬臂的租赁式公寓大楼，哈尔斯泰德地产(Halstead Property)的市场开发部总经理威廉‧罗斯(William Ross)说：“这就是开发商的一记漂亮的本垒打。因为悬臂上的每套公寓都拥有令人惊人的曼哈顿景观。”
The architect Ismael Leyva, whose firm has incorporated cantilevers in Midtown at Place 57 and the Icon and most recently at the Charles, a 31-story, 27-unit luxury tower at First Avenue and 73rd Street, says cantilevers have become the go-to option for developers.
建筑设计师伊斯梅尔·莱瓦(Ismael Leyva)的公司已经为曼哈顿中城区的Place 57大厦、Icon大厦以及查尔斯大厦(the Charles)这栋位于第一大道和73街间、含有27套豪华公寓的31层新建大厦装上了悬臂，他说，悬臂已经变成了开发商们趋之若鹜的选择。
“It’s a good tool for increasing the ratio of salable square feet,” Mr. Leyva said. “And it gives a building a different external dynamic: you have the movement of intercepting shapes instead of the typical box.”
“这是一个提高可售面积比率的好工具，”莱瓦说，“而且还让建筑物具备了一种与众不同的外在动感：你能拥有断面造型的动态美，而不是普普通通的四方块。”
The Landmarks Preservation Commission has reviewed the contextual appropriateness of cantilevers proposed at historic sites on just three occasions, two of them for the same site. Besides the Nordstrom tower, which it approved in October, the commission twice approved a cantilever for a condominium at 39-41 West 23rd Street, in the Ladies’ Mile Historic District. The initial project was a victim of the downturn, but Anbau Enterprises bought the distressed site for $18.5 million in 2010 and eventually selected a redesign by Cook & Fox Architects that retained the cantilever.
地标建筑保护委员会针对要建在历史保护区内的悬臂，已进行了三轮环评考察，其中两次是针对同一地址。除了10月（2013年）通过的诺德斯特姆大楼外，该委员会还分两次通过了为西23街39号-41号设计的一条悬臂，位于仕女一英里历史街区(Ladies' Mile Historic District)内。此项目起初受到经济衰退的影响，成了牺牲品；但2010年Anbau公司用1850万美元（约合人民币1.1亿元）买下了这块烂尾地，并最终选择了由建筑设计公司Cook & Fox Architects提交的保留悬臂的再设计方案。
“Our experience with cantilevers is sort of dramatic and intrinsically interesting,” said Robert Tierney, the commission’s chairman. It decided the cantilever above the Art Students League did not diminish the landmark, and on 23rd Street, it again ruled that the sculptural cantilever proposed for the condominium had been integrated into the design and was not an intrusion or a distraction at street level.
“我们评估悬臂的经验非常丰富，实质上也非常有趣，”该委员会的主席罗伯特·蒂尔尼(Robert Tierney)说。其委员会裁定，位于艺术学生联盟(Art Students League)上空的悬臂没有侵害到这座地标式建筑；而在西23街，该委员会再次判定，为这栋共管公寓楼设计的那条如同雕塑般的悬臂，已与设计融为一体，对街道层面的景观没有侵犯或干扰。
But three approvals do not constitute blanket acceptance: “I would say it would be the exception rather than the rule for us to find a cantilever appropriate,” said Sarah Carroll, the commission’s director of preservation. “It is very site specific.”
但是通过三次环评，并不意味着所有人都接受了：“我想说的是，去确定一条悬臂对于某处环境是适合的，这不该是我们的工作准则，而应属于个别情况，”该委员会负责保护工作的主任萨拉·卡洛尔(Sarah Carroll)说，“具体地点要具体分析。”
Barbara van Beuren, a managing partner at Anbau, is not a cantilever enthusiast. “They’ve become an accepted part of building in the city now that you can build sideways if you own the air,” she said. “But it’s expensive to build a pretty building, so they aren’t always pretty, especially where Landmarks isn’t there to hold your feet to the fire designwise. Some are not obtrusive; others are horrendous. They may make a project viable, but they’re not easy to do, and I would never do one if given a choice.”
Anbau公司的主管合伙人芭芭拉·范·博伊伦(Barbara van Beuren)就不是一位悬臂爱好者，“现在，在这座城市中，悬臂已经被接纳为建筑物的一部分，所以，只要有领空开发权，你就能在大楼两侧修建悬臂，”她说，“但要把一座大楼建得漂亮，造价就会十分昂贵，所以悬臂并不总是好看的，尤其是在那些没有地标式建筑的地块，设计智慧就如同脱缰的野马，不受束缚。有的悬臂并不显眼，另一些则惊世骇俗。悬臂可能会提升一个项目的价值，但建造起来并不容易。如果可以选择的话，我绝不会去建一条悬臂。”
“On West 23rd Street,” she added, “we inherited a site and a design and wound up keeping the cantilever because it was a critical part of making the project work. We’re proud of the design. We live in the 21st century, not the 19th, and even in a historic district, the point is not to reproduce what was. But the burden of proof is on the designer.”
“在西23号街，”她补充说，“我们接手了一个地块及其上的设计方案，我们可能会保留设计中的悬臂，因为它是确保该项目可行性的一个关键部分。我们对悬臂的设计感到骄傲。我们生活在21世纪而不是19世纪，即便在一处历史保护片区内，最关键的问题也在于不要去重复创造旧事物。但是，获得许可的重任都是由设计方来承担的。”
Nancy Belsky and her husband, Mark, who live in a Georgian colonial in the Boston suburbs, bought their 17th-floor penthouse at the Isis three years ago to use as a pied-à-terre. They were not looking to live in a cantilever building (she researched cantilevers after moving in). But they loved the apartment’s layout the instant they opened the door.
南希·贝尔斯基(Nancy Belsky)和她的丈夫马克(Mark)住在波士顿郊区的一栋佐治亚风格(Georgian)的殖民时期住宅中。三年前，他们买下了Isis大厦17楼的顶层公寓作为临时住所。他们本来并没有打算住在一栋有悬臂的大楼里（搬进去后，她研究了那些悬臂）；但他们一推开房门，就喜欢上了这套公寓的布局。
“Besides the floor-to-ceiling windows and the two terraces,” she said, “there was this automatic, almost transcendent feeling, thrusting us into being a part of the beauty that is New York City. You don’t feel contained; there’s almost this Frank Lloyd Wright sense of being at one with your surroundings. It’s like you’re invited to be part of what’s beyond your space.” Vertigo is not, she said, part of the experience.
“除了从地面直抵天花板的落地窗和两处阳台，”她说，“其中还有一种令人无意间几乎超常的感觉，它促使我们进入一种成为纽约之美的一部分的状态里。你感觉不到束缚，几乎有种人与环境合而为一的、弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)式的感受，就好像你被邀请成为室外空间的一部分。”她说，在这里并没有眩晕的感觉。
“The ability to cantilever has been one of the real impetuses of modern architecture with a capital M,” said Mr. Kaplan, whose firm designed the Isis. “It’s an opportunity to make a great design — and it unlocks the potential inherent in development rights.”
“运用悬臂的能力，已经成为当代建筑风格背后真正的推动力之一，”卡普兰说，他的公司设计了Isis大楼，“这是一个成就伟大设计的机遇——也释放了开发权的内在潜力。”