For Christmas in 2013, President Vladimir V. Putin sent three books to every regional governor and other senior officials in Russia. One of them was “Our Tasks,” by Ivan Ilyin, an early-20th-century Russian philosopher who disdained Western-style democracy and argued for an authoritarian, though not totalitarian, state. In Mr. Ilyin’s view, the government would not control all aspects of society, but in certain important areas would be “dictatorial in the scope of its powers.”
2013年的圣诞节，弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统向俄罗斯的每位区域最高领导人和其他一些高层官员赠送了三本书。其中一本是伊万·伊林(Ivan Ilyin)的《我们的任务》(Our Tasks)。这位20世纪初的俄罗斯哲学家鄙视西方式的民主，主张建立威权（虽然并非极权）国家。在伊林看来，政府不应当控制社会的方方面面，但在某些特定的重要领域，应当“在它权力的范围内独断专行”。
Mr. Putin has developed something of a man crush on that exiled writer. He has quoted Mr. Ilyin in several national addresses, helped arrange for Mr. Ilyin’s body to be returned to Russia from Switzerland for reburial, was reported to have personally paid for a new headstone and later traveled to a Moscow monastery to lay flowers on his grave.
普京对这位流放作家很是迷恋。他在若干次国家演讲中引用伊林的话，帮助把伊林的遗体从瑞士迎回俄罗斯重新下葬，据报道，他自己掏钱为伊林建了一座新墓碑，后来又到坐落在莫斯科某修道院的伊林墓前献花。
This admiration contains clues to Mr. Putin’s own, somewhat enigmatic philosophy, the venerable historian Walter Laqueur writes in “Putinism: Russia and Its Future With the West,” an aptly timed and much needed look at the mercurial master of the Kremlin.
这种崇拜也揭示出普京自己略有些神秘的哲学，著名历史学家沃尔特·拉克尔(Walter Laqueur)的《普京主义：俄罗斯和它与西方的未来》(Putinism: Russia and Its Future With the West)一书审视了这位反复无常的克里姆林宫主人，而这正是当下所需要的。
With Russia grabbing territory and sponsoring a separatist war in Ukraine, putting it once again at odds with the West, efforts to peer inside Mr. Putin’s head have taken on profound significance. The White House has spent months on an interagency review trying to answer the question: What is Putinism anyway, and what should be done to counter it, beyond the immediate crisis in Ukraine?
俄罗斯目前正在攫取领土，支持乌克兰境内的分离主义战争，再度与西方发生争执，弄清普京的所思所想就变得尤为重要。白宫花费了几个月时间，由几个部门合作研究，想要弄清这个问题：普京主义到底是什么，等乌克兰迫在眉睫的危机缓解之后，应当怎样克服？
Into this examination comes Mr. Laqueur, with trademark scholarly discipline deconstructing Mr. Putin, who in his 16 years as prime minister and president has defied the understanding of some of the world’s best-informed leaders and best-financed intelligence agencies.
这样的研究催生了拉克尔的著作，他以标志性的学术严谨解构了普京。担任俄罗斯总理和总统的时间有16年，这段经历公然挑战了若干世界上最为见多识广的领袖，乃至最富有的情报机构的认识。
“What is Putinism?” Mr. Laqueur asks. “A great amount of mental energy has been devoted to finding an accurate definition, as so often happens when a new regime appears. But it has not been a very successful enterprise.”
“什么是普京主义？”拉克尔发问。“很多人贡献智慧，用来为这个词下一个精确的定义，每当一个新的政权显现之时，往往都是如此。但这种努力并不成功。”
Mr. Laqueur, who has studied Russia for more than 60 years and has written more than 25 books, does not fall for the easy traps. While some in the United States see Mr. Putin as simply a revanchist Soviet, even a latter-day Stalin, Mr. Laqueur understands it is not so simple.
拉克尔研究俄罗斯已经有60多年，写过超过25本专著，他并没有落入这种窠臼。有些美国人认为普京只是苏联的复仇者，甚至是未来的斯大林，拉克尔明白，事情并不是这样简单。
To be sure, Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. officer raised with Soviet sensibilities, has paid homage to the old symbols and promoted nostalgia for a lost superpower. He has in some ways rehabilitated Stalin, in keeping with the views of a strikingly large share of Russia’s populace. But Mr. Putin is not a Communist in the old sense. He does not talk of the dictatorship of the proletariat or the worker’s paradise, nor does he export ideological revolution beyond his own neighborhood.
诚然，普京是前任克格勃官员，在苏联氛围之下成长，对于那些逝去时代的符号抱有敬意，对失去的超级霸权产生怀旧之情。他在某些方面恢复了斯大林的声誉，这是为了迎合数量惊人的俄罗斯平民们的观点。但普京并不是旧有意义上的共产主义者。他并不提及无产阶级专政，以及工人阶级的天堂，他也不向自己以外的地区输出意识形态革命。
He came to power as the heir apparent to Boris N. Yeltsin, and many in the West wishfully thought he would stabilize Russia’s shaky journey toward democracy. The signs, though, were there early for those who cared to notice: Mr. Putin took over independent television, punished defiant business tycoons, turned Parliament into a rubber stamp and eliminated the election of governors.
他以鲍里斯·N·叶利钦(Boris N. Yeltsin)无可争议的继承者身份执掌政权，很多西方人一厢情愿地认为，他会巩固俄罗斯风雨飘摇的民主之路。然而，有心者注意到了早期的一些迹象：普京取消了独立电视台、惩戒不服从的商业大亨、架空议会，取消了执政长官的选举。
To the extent that he has defined a governing philosophy, Mr. Putin has made clear he favors the restoration of a strong state. At first, the ruling philosophy was called the “vertical of power” — in other words, a top-down system with him at the top. Later, amid criticism in the West that he had forsaken freedom, the phrase was recast as “sovereign democracy,” with the emphasis on the sovereign.
普京表明，他致力于恢复一个强大的国家，从这种意义而言，他定义了一种统治哲学。一开始，他的统治哲学可以称为“垂直权力”——换言之，一种自上而下的系统，他本人立于权力的顶峰。后来在西方批评他放弃了自由的声浪中，这个词也换成了“主权民主”(sovereign democracy)，更强调“主权”。
But that seemed more of a brand, not an ideology. Mr. Putin’s efforts at political definition have often felt more opportunistic than organized, the product of a leader playing the angles to preserve power and nervous about what he portrays as outsiders trying to take it from him.
但是这看上去更像是一种品牌，而不是一种意识形态。普京在政治阐释方面的努力更像是投机的，而不像是有条理的，是一个领导人为保持权力耍手腕，焦虑地在那些想从他手中攫取权力的外人面前摆出姿态的产物。
Mr. Laqueur searches for the organizing principle. Putinism, he writes, seems to be state capitalism with elements of a liberal economic policy but significant state intervention — “almost total interference when important issues are concerned.” Russia has the trappings of democracy — elections, a Parliament, news media — but that all increasingly seems to be for show. And “the most important component in the new ideology is nationalism accompanied by anti-Westernism.”
拉克尔搜索出其中有条理的原则。他写道，普京主义似乎可以被表述为带有自由经济政策，但又有显著国家干预的国家资本主义——“在重大问题上，几乎是彻底的干预”。俄罗斯具有民主的外部标志——选举、议会、新闻媒体——但都愈来愈显得像是作秀。而且“在新的意识形态中，最重要的成分是伴有反西方主义的民族主义。”
In recent years Mr. Putin has tried to position himself as the champion of a Eurasian power, setting Russia as a counterpoint to Europe. Mr. Laqueur does not buy this, either. For all the talk of the Mongol influence on a country that stretches all the way to the Pacific, Mr. Laqueur notes that Russia remains much more tied to Europe in terms of culture, history, language and religion.
近年来，普京试图把自己塑造为欧亚势力的捍卫者，让俄罗斯成为同欧洲平起平坐的力量。拉克尔同样也不信这一套。尽管有很多说法，声称这个版图一直延伸到太平洋的国家受到蒙古帝国的影响，拉克尔指出，俄罗斯仍然在文化、历史、语言和信仰方面同欧洲有着千丝万缕的关系。
Mr. Putin’s approach has always been rooted in resentment over at Russia’s lost superpower status and his promise to restore the country’s greatness. But where he once sought to validate that greatness through membership in the world’s elite organizations, what was then the Group of 8, lately he has stoked anger at the West, presenting it as determined to keep Russia down. He is the self-appointed protector of Russians, even those living in other countries like Ukraine. Similarly, he has played to the longstanding dream of becoming the Third Rome, defining Russia as the savior of morality at a time of moral decay in the West that for him is typified by the rise of gay rights.
普京的手段一直深深植根于对俄罗斯丧失超级大国地位的不满和令这个国家重返辉煌的承诺中。他一度试图通过在世界精英集团（当时是八国的集团）的成员身份证明这种辉煌，后来他在那里对西方发火，说它决心整垮俄罗斯。他是自封的俄罗斯人的保护者，甚至连住在乌克兰等外国的俄罗斯人也要保护。同样，他一直有着成为罗马第三帝国的梦想，声称在西方道德沦丧之际（对他来说，最典型的就是同性恋权利运动的崛起），俄罗斯是救世主。
Mr. Ilyin has been a source of inspiration to the Kremlin in this project. In him, Mr. Laqueur writes, Mr. Putin and his circle “have found the prophet to present their much-needed new ideology.”
在这方面，伊林成为克里姆林宫灵感的源泉，拉克尔写道，普京和他的小圈子“找到了先知，可以用来呈现他们备受需要的新意识形态。”
The product of an upper-class Moscow family with ties to the army, Mr. Ilyin studied philosophy and did not last long once the Bolsheviks swept to power. Expelled from the Soviet Union in 1922, he wound up in Germany, where he worked for the Russian Scientific Institute, which Mr. Laqueur points out was part of Joseph Goebbels’s Ministry of Propaganda. He was fired and fled again, this time to Switzerland, where he lived until his death in 1954. Once forgotten in Russia, nearly 30 of his books have been republished in his home country since the fall of the Soviet Union.
伊林出身莫斯科一个上层阶级家庭，与军方有所联系，他学习哲学，但布尔什维克掌权不久后就放弃了学业。1922年，他被驱逐出苏联，来到德国，在那里的俄罗斯科学院(Russian Scientific Institute)工作，拉克尔指出，这个机构是约瑟夫·戈培尔(Joseph Goebbel)的宣传部的一部分。后来他被解雇，再度逃亡，这一次到瑞士，住在那里直至1954年去世。他的名字一度在俄罗斯被人遗忘，自从苏联覆灭后，他的近30本著作在祖国重新出版。
To some extent, Mr. Laqueur saw this coming. In his 1993 volume, “Black Hundred,” issued as the rest of the world was still basking in the fall of the Soviet Union and foreseeing a new democratic Russia, he warned of the opposite.
在某种程度上，拉克尔预见到了这种趋势。1993年，当全世界还陶醉在苏联的覆灭，并展望一个民主的新俄罗斯时，他便在著作《黑色百年》(Black Hundred)一书中警告人们，一切可能恰恰相反。
“An authoritarian system based on some nationalist populism appears more probable,” Mr. Laqueur wrote then.
“更有可能出现的是一个建立在民族主义和民粹主义基础上的威权体制，”拉克尔在当时写道。
More than 20 years later, he seems eerily and depressingly prescient.
20多年后，这番话显得颇具先见之明，真是神秘而又令人沮丧。