On Thanksgiving, Americans sat down to dinner, looked at the big turkey and thought about Donald Trump.
在感恩节，美国人坐下来吃饭，看着面前的大火鸡，心里想着唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)。
O.K., that was totally the wrong attitude. We’re supposed to be having a reset. The president-elect has been going out of his way to build bridges. He came to The Times this week for a long conversation, during which he was extremely amiable. He blasted the alt-right twits who celebrated his victory with Nazi salutes. (“Of course I condemn. I disavow and condemn.”) He had nothing but praise for Barack Obama (“I really liked him a lot.”) He has no desire to see Hillary Clinton prosecuted. (“She went through a lot. And suffered greatly in many different ways.”)
好吧，这态度完全不对头。我们应该重新调整自己。候任总统已经在很努力地搭建桥梁了。本周他来到《时报》，做了长时间的交谈，期间态度非常友好。他抨击了那些用纳粹敬礼庆祝他当选的另类右翼蠢材（“我当然谴责。我否定并谴责”）。对于贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)他只有赞美之词（“我真的很喜欢他”）。他无意看到希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)遭到起诉（“她经历了很多，在很多方面都饱经痛苦”）。
Policywise, he was still the guy who’s not all that into position papers. In discussing climate change alone, Trump used the phrase “open mind” seven times. This is one thing you can count on. We haven’t had a mind so open in the White House since Warren Harding.
在政策方面，他仍然是那个不怎么在乎立场文件的家伙。单单在讨论气候变化的时候，特朗普就连用了七次“开放心态”这个词。这是可以想见的。我们从沃伦·哈丁(Warren Harding)以来，就从没见过心态这么开放的一位总统。
Trump certainly hasn’t been giving many hints about what he’s actually going to do. But the real, and very important, message from his outreach was to remind the nation that he’s not crazy.
至于自己实际上准备做什么，特朗普当然没有给出很多提示。但是，他做出这些姿态，所要传达给这个国家的真正重要的信息是，他不是疯子。
Trump not crazy! The word spread throughout the land. The stock market soared. While it’s true that the country has generally expected a little more from an incoming president, this election year has always been the story of a very low bar.
特朗普不是疯子！这句话传遍全国。股市顿时飙升。虽然这个国家一般确实会从即将上任的总统身上期待更多一点，但这个选举年的标准一直都非常低。
Look at his appointments. In another year, people might question whether Gov. Nikki Haley of South Carolina would be the right choice for United Nations ambassador, since she has virtually no experience whatsoever in foreign affairs. However, given the fact that last week Haley appeared to be a finalist for secretary of state, the U.N. seems like an eminently sensible assignment. Plus, once again we are relieved it’s not Rudy Giuliani.
看看他的那些任命吧。换了另一年，人们可能会质疑南卡罗来纳州州长尼基·黑利(Nikki Haley)是否是驻联合国大使的正确人选，因为她在外交事务上几乎毫无经验。然而，鉴于上周黑利似乎成了国务卿提名的最终入围者，联合国大使似乎也变成了一项格外明智的任命。另外，我们再一次放下了悬着的心，国务卿不是鲁迪·朱利安尼(Rudy Giuliani)。
Ironically, Trump, who ran as the big-change guy, is spending his first days as president-elect trying to assure people the changes won’t be too large. The Mexican wall is going to be a mixture of wall and fences — think of it as the Great Wence. The war on illegal immigrants is going to be all about deporting criminals, which is exactly what the Obama administration has been doing for years.
讽刺的是，特朗普一直把自己打造为带来大变革的人物，成为候任总统之后，他却把最初几天的时间用来安抚人们：变化不会太大。墨西哥墙将会是墙壁与篱笆的混合体――就把它当成一道“篱笆大墙”吧。对非法移民的战争只不过是将犯罪分子驱逐出境而已，而奥巴马政府几年来一直都是这么做的。
The most astonishing moment in Trump’s visit to The Times came when the president-elect announced that waterboarding suspected terrorists was “not going to make the kind of a difference that maybe a lot of people think.” Those people would include all the folks who went to Trump rallies and cheered when the candidate said things like: “Would I approve waterboarding? You bet your ass I would. … It works.”
特朗普访问时报期间最令人惊讶的一刻是，这位候任总统宣布，对被疑为恐怖分子的人实施水刑“不像许多人可能认为的那么有效”。“许多人”中可能包括所有参加特朗普集会的人，或是在这位候选人说出类似下面的话时大声欢呼的人――“我会赞成水刑吗？我会赞成的，赌上你的屁股吧……它确实管用。”
“If it’s so important to the American people, I would go for it,” said the man who spent much of the last year trying to make it important. But, he said, he’d talked to Gen. James Mattis — the odds-on bet for secretary of defense — and found that Mattis thought waterboarding was pretty useless and much less effective than trying to win over a prisoner with cigarettes and beer.
“如果这对于美国人来说这么重要，我会支持它的，”在过去一年花了很多时间，努力使它变得重要的人这样说。但是，他说，他和詹姆斯·马蒂斯(James Mattis)将军交谈过了――马蒂斯是新任国防部长大有可能的人选――他发现马蒂斯认为水刑基本上是没用的，要想争取一个犯人，香烟和啤酒要有效得多。
Now, you can look at this two ways. One is that we have a president-elect who never bothered to talk with any experts about one of his major campaign themes. The other is that he’s growing into the job.
现在，你可以用这两种方式来看待这件事。一个是，我们这位候任总统之前从来没有费心与专家探讨过他的重要竞选主题。另一个是，他正在为这份工作而成长。
Let’s take the second. Sure, we’ll probably be disappointed by Valentine’s Day, but it could get us through the holidays.
让我们接受第二种方式。当然，到情人节时我们可能又会失望，但它至少可以帮我们度过接下来的假期。
I’ve been trying to think of a way to set an example — to come up with an olive branch that doesn’t go overboard. Some little thing to smooth the edges before we start fighting about the Supreme Court and health care.
我一直在想办法举出一个例子――抛出一根不会太过分的橄榄枝。在我们开始为最高法院和医疗保健而战之前，用小东西来缓和气氛。
Over the past couple of years I have noted on several occasions that Donald Trump once sent me a letter saying I had the face of a dog. This was when he took exception to my description of him as a “thousandaire.”
在过去一两年里，我提到过好几次，唐纳德·特朗普曾经给过我一封信，说我长着一张狗脸，他的反感是因为我把他描述为“千元富翁”。
I’ve decided I will refrain from mentioning the incident again until he does something really, really terrible as president. In the name of accuracy, however, I have to correct the record. I dug out Trump’s missive the other day and discovered he did not actually say I looked like a dog. He said I was “a dog and a liar” with the face of a pig.
我本来打定主意，如果他当上总统以后没有做出什么真的非常可怕的事情，我就再也不提这回事了。然而，为了准确起见，我必须更正这份记录。话说有一天，我翻出特朗普的信，发现他的原话并不是说我看起来活像一条狗。他说的是，我是“一条狗和一个骗子”，还长着一张猪脸。
Hard to believe I got that wrong. The moral is that you should always consult the primary source.
很难相信我居然记错了。这件事的教训是，你应该总是核实消息的一手来源。
So off we go. Fiscal conservatives are terrified that Trump will spend a ton of money on construction projects and refuse to cut entitlements. Murmurs of the dread term “Rockefeller Republican” are probably wafting at Paul Ryan’s holiday table. Perhaps liberals can take comfort in the fact that the other side is just as freaked out as they are.
就是这么回事。财政保守派害怕特朗普将在建筑项目上花费大量金钱，并且拒绝削减福利。低声讲出的骇人术语“洛克菲勒共和党人”可能出现在保罗·赖恩(Paul Ryan)的假日餐桌上。也许自由主义者可以从一个事实中得到安慰――对头也跟他们一样恐慌。
Next year at this time, we’ll be watching President Trump pardon the Thanksgiving turkeys. Unless he reverts and winds up ordering the turkeys tortured.
明年的这个时候，我们将看到特朗普总统特赦感恩节火鸡。除非他改变主意，最后下命令把火鸡严刑审讯一番。