BEIRUT, Lebanon — In the images, he sits alone, a small boy coated with gray dust and encrusted blood. His little feet barely extend beyond his seat. He stares, bewildered, shocked and, above all, weary, as if channeling the mood of Syria.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——在那些图像里，他独自坐着，一个小男孩，浑身都是灰土和凝结的血块。他的小脚从椅子上伸出来一点。他瞪着眼睛，满脸迷惑和震惊，但主要还是疲惫不堪，仿佛整个叙利亚的情绪都在他的脸上。
The boy, identified by medical workers as Omran Daqneesh, 5, was pulled from a damaged building after a Syrian government or Russian airstrike in the northern city of Aleppo. He was one of 12 children under the age of 15 treated on Wednesday, not a particularly unusual figure, at one of the hospitals in the city’s rebel-held eastern section, according to doctors there.
医务人员确认这个男孩名叫奥姆兰·达克尼什(Omran Daqnees)，今年五岁，是叙利亚政府或俄罗斯空袭叙利亚北方城市阿勒颇(Aleppo)之后从废墟中被救出来的。他是周三在这座城市北部受反对派控制的一处医院中接受治疗的12个15岁以下的儿童之一，该医院的医生说，他并不是什么特别的人物。
But some images strike a particular nerve, for reasons both obvious and unknowable, jarring even a public numbed to disaster. Omran’s is one.
但是出于某些既显而易见又不可知的原因，一些影像特别能触动人类的神经，甚至能震撼那些对灾难已经麻木的公众。奥姆兰的图像就是其中之一。
Within minutes of being posted by witnesses and journalists, a photograph and a video of Omran began rocketing around the world on social media. Unwittingly, Omran — like Alan Kurdi, the Syrian toddler who drowned last September and whose lifeless body washed up on a Turkish beach — is bringing new attention to the thousands upon thousands of children killed and injured during five years of war and the inability or unwillingness of global powers to stop the carnage.
奥姆兰的一张照片和一段视频被记者和目击者们贴到网上后，几分钟内就通过社交网络传遍了世界。不知不觉中，奥姆兰和去年9月在淹死后尸体被冲到土耳其海岸上的叙利亚儿童阿兰·库尔迪(Alan Kurdi)一样，令人们重新关注那些在持续五年的战争中遇难或受伤的上万名儿童，以及全球的各种力量在阻止这场屠杀时是多么无能为力抑或不情不愿。
Maybe it was his haircut, long and floppy up top; or his rumpled T-shirt showing the Nickelodeon cartoon character CatDog; or his tentative, confused movements in a widely circulated video — gestures familiar to anyone who has loved a child. Or the instant and inescapable question of whether a parent was left alive to give him a hug.
或许是因为他有些长又乱蓬蓬的头发；抑或是他皱巴巴的T恤，上面还印着尼克洛迪恩儿童频道的卡通角色“猫狗”；又或者是因为他在这个广为流传的视频里那些充满犹豫和困惑的动作——对于喜欢孩子的人来说，他的姿势再熟悉不过。又或者是因为那个紧急而又无可回避的问题：他的父母是否生还，是否还能再来拥抱他？
In any event, by Thursday morning, Omran’s image had been broadcast and published around the world, and Syrians were sharing mock-ups of his photograph in memes that both cried for help and darkly mocked the futile repetitiveness of such pleas.
不管怎样，星期四的早晨，全世界都播放或登载了奥姆兰的形象，叙利亚人纷纷分享这张照片的仿作，它们既呼吁帮助，亦悲观地嘲讽这种一再重复的请求是多么无用。
One, riffing on Omran’s officelike chair, showed him at a desk as if representing his country to the world.
其中一张图片拿奥姆兰坐着的、看起来像办公用椅的椅子做文章，在他面前放了一张桌子，仿佛向世人代表着他的国家。
Another pasted him like a silent accusation between President Obama and his Russian counterpart, President Vladimir V. Putin.
另一张图片让他置身于奥巴马总统(President Obama)和俄国总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)中间，仿佛是一种无声的控诉。
The drafting of Omran as an emblem of despair is not new; images of dead and injured children from Syria are shared daily on social media, many of them indescribably more harrowing. Pieces of children’s bodies being pulled from rubble are photographed with appalling regularity in a war of indiscriminate attacks, most often from government airstrikes and shelling but also from rebel mortars.
奥姆兰的形象成为绝望的象征，这绝非什么新鲜事；叙利亚伤亡儿童的形象每天都在社交网络上传播，其中有很多悲惨到无法用语言表达的程度。在一场无差别攻击的战争中，儿童尸体碎片从废墟中挖出来的照片如此常见，到了惊人的地步，这样的攻击不仅来自政府的空袭和轰炸，也来自反对派武装的炮火。
But while the mind revolts against looking too long at those pictures, and many news media shun them as too gruesome, it may be the relatively familiar look of Omran’s distress that allows a broader public to relate to it.
尽管这样的照片看久了会让人觉得反感，很多新闻媒体也因为太过残酷而避免发表这样的照片，但奥姆兰痛苦的样子，看上去仍然相对来说让人感觉熟悉，引发了公众更广泛的共鸣。
In the case of Alan, the Syrian toddler who washed up on a beach last year, after his family tried to reach Europe on a smuggler’s boat, the child was dead. But his body was intact, lying in the sand as if sleeping, and dressed neatly with evident parental love for his big journey.
在去年那个尸体被冲上岸的孩子阿兰的事件里，他全家乘坐偷渡船去欧洲，这个孩子死了。但他的尸体却完好无损，躺在沙滩上，仿佛熟睡一般，他衣着整洁，证明漫长的旅途中，他一直有父母的爱相伴。
Omran, as he is carried from a damaged building in the dark, could be Everychild. He looks around in confusion, his chubby forearm draped trustingly across the reflective stripe on his rescuer’s back, before he is plopped into the chair at the back of ambulance, lit blindingly white.
奥姆兰在黑暗中从遭到破坏的建筑里被拖出来，他可能和任何孩子没什么两样。他困惑地打量四周，胖乎乎的小胳膊信任地垂在救护人员背上的反光条纹上，后来他被放在灯光白得刺眼的救护车后部的椅子上。
He settles into a thousand-yard stare, apparently too stunned to cry. Then he puts a hand to his bloody brow, looks at his palm in surprise, and tries to wipe it on the chair. Then he glances around, as if trying to understand where he is.
他茫然地凝视着远方，震惊到忘了哭泣。后来他伸手去摸流血的额头，吃惊地看着自己的手掌，想把血抹在椅子上。然后他又四下打量，好像想弄清自己到底在哪儿。
Omran’s picture and video were distributed by the Aleppo Media Center, a longstanding group of antigovernment activists and citizen journalists who document the conflict. They were also shared with journalists by doctors from the hospital where he was treated, which is supported by the Syrian American Medical Society.
奥姆兰的照片和视频由阿勒颇医疗中心提供，这个存在多时的组织由反政府活动分子和记录这场冲突的公民记者所组成。这家医院由叙利亚-美国医疗社团(Syrian American Medical Society)赞助，医院的医生们也向记者们提供了若干他接受治疗的照片和视频。
The video shows two more small children brought to the ambulance, and then two adults, one person on a stretcher, one man covered in dust and agitated but able to walk.
在视频上，两个更小的孩子被带上救护车，跟着是两个大人，其中一个人躺在担架上，另一个男人浑身都是灰土，显得非常焦躁，不过还能走路。
They were taken to a hospital already swamped with casualties.
他们被带到一家已经挤满死伤者的医院里。
Mohammad al-Ahmad, a radiology nurse, was in the emergency room when Omran arrived around 9 p.m. with bruises and cuts all over his body.
奥姆兰在晚上9点左右被送进急救室，浑身都是淤血和伤口，放射科护士穆罕默德·艾哈迈德(Mohammad al-Ahmad)当时在那里。
“The boy was traumatized,” Mr. Ahmad said. “He wasn’t speaking when he arrived. A few minutes later, he started crying from pain.”
“这个孩子受了精神创伤，”艾哈迈德说。“他进来的时候什么话也不说。几分钟后，他开始因为疼痛而哭起来。”
Mr. Ahmad cleaned Omran’s face and bandaged his head, as images shared by the hospital’s medical staff showed. Doctors said they found no apparent signs of brain injury.
如医院的医务人员分享的图像所示，艾哈迈德洗干净奥姆兰的脸，给他的头部做了包扎。医生们说他们没有发现脑损伤的明显迹象。
In the chaos, the hospital workers, who communicated via online messages, could not immediately say which of the boy’s adult relatives were alive and whether they were with him.
在一片混乱中，医院通过网络对外联系的工作人员无法立刻说出这个孩子的成人亲属是否还活着，是不是和他在一起。
That is not unusual, medical workers say, in a city where some dead and injured children cannot even be identified because they are brought in alone. Bombings bring so many patients at once that doctors treat them on the floor, and hospitals and medical workers have been systematically targeted in the war.
医务人员说，这种情况并不罕见，在这个城市里，很多死去和受伤的孩子甚至无法识别身份，因为他们是独自被送来的。轰炸一下子就带来太多伤员，医生们得在地上治疗他们，同时医院和医务人员也是战争中遭受系统打击的对象。
Later, doctors at the hospital said they had verified that Omran’s parents had survived, though their home had been destroyed. Relatives declined to speak, saying they were afraid of government reprisals. The doctors said the family may have relatives living in government-controlled territory.
后来，医院的医生们说，他们已经证实奥姆兰的父母还活着，不过他们的家被摧毁了。相关人士害怕遭到政府的报复，因此拒绝发言。医生们说，这家人可能有亲戚生活在政府控制的区域内。
Mahmoud Raslan, who had taken some of the video and photographs of Omran, said in an interview that the boy lived with his mother, father and three siblings, and that they were all injured.
为奥姆兰拍摄了若干视频和照片的马哈茂德·拉斯兰(Mahmoud Raslan)在接受采访时说，这个男孩和父母以及三个兄弟姐妹住在一起，他们都受了伤。
Cases like Omran’s are a daily sight in eastern Aleppo, several doctors said, adding that he was lucky in that he made it to a hospital that was still open.
几个医生说，奥姆兰这样的事情在东阿勒颇每天都会发生，并说他很幸运，被送到一家仍然开着的医院。
Mr. Ahmad, the nurse, said three other children had been hospitalized with Omran, along with a 22-year-old man who had been stuck under rubble for eight hours. He said that at least three people had died in the strike.
护士艾哈迈德说，还有三个孩子和奥姆兰一起被送进医院，以及一个在废墟下被埋了八个小时的22岁男子。他说，至少有三人在这次空袭中丧生。
“But Omran took all the attention,” he said.
“但是奥姆兰得到了所有人的关注，”他说。
Mr. Raslan, the photographer, was surprised that the images of this one boy drew so much news coverage when, he said, he photographs similar events every day.
一个孩子的影像得到了那么多新闻报道，令摄影师拉斯兰感到惊讶，他说，他每天都在拍下类似的事件。
On Thursday morning, journalists from around the world were clamoring in an online chat group for more information about Omran and his family. But the doctors had moved on.
星期四上午，世界各地的记者在网上的各个聊天群组里喧哗不休，要求得到关于奥姆兰和其家人的更多信息，但是医生们已经向前看了。
They were handling yet another influx from a bombing in the morning, later posting new images. A boy lay on the floor, his legs missing. A woman in black put her hand to her mouth in anguish.
他们在忙着处理另一批当天早上遭受轰炸的伤员，后来又贴出了新的影像。一个男孩躺在地上，没有了双腿。一个穿黑衣的女人痛苦地捂着嘴。
Another boy lay on a gurney, soaked in blood, as a clinician worked on him. A few minutes later came another text message: The boy had died. His name was Ibrahim Hadiri, and there was a new photograph of his face, eyes closed. It is not likely to go viral.
另一个男孩躺在运送病人的轮床上，浑身是血，医生在他身边忙碌。几分钟后传来一则文字信息：这个男孩死了。他的名字是易卜拉欣·哈迪里(Ibrahim Hadir)，还有一张他的新照片，他的双眼已经合上。这张照片不太可能在网上得到大肆传播。