SEOUL, South Korea — As the protests against her have grown larger, louder and closer, and her career, reputation and presidency march inexorably toward an impeachment vote on Friday, President Park Geun-hye has kept mostly hidden from public view, gripped by self-pity and despair, and largely alone.
韩国首尔——随着抗议的规模越来越大、声音越来越响、距离越来越近，自己的事业、声誉和总统职位不可阻挡地向周五的弹劾投票迈进，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)大部分时候都远离公众视线，陷入自怜和绝望，基本上都是一人独处。
Cloistered in the presidential Blue House, which in a twist of fate befitting a Greek tragedy is also her childhood home, she has had few visitors, aides said.
助手称，隐居在总统官邸青瓦台的她几乎没有访客。如同希腊悲剧的造化弄人一样，那里也是她童年的家。
At 64, she has never married or had children. Her brother and sister have been estranged from her for years. Her three most trusted aides have been fired over the corruption and influence-peddling scandal that now threatens to undo her presidency. One has been jailed. Park’s closest friend and confidante, Choi Soon-sil, is also in jail.
64岁的她至今未婚未育，与弟弟妹妹疏远多年。在现已威胁其总统职位的腐败和以权谋私丑闻中，她最信任的三名助手被免职，其中一人入狱。而她最亲密的知己崔顺实(Choi Soon-sil)，也关在狱中。
Park has stopped attending Cabinet and presidential staff meetings. She has been dejected, she said in one public apology, losing “countless nights” of sleep and at times regretting ever becoming president.
朴槿惠已不再参加内阁和青瓦台工作会议。在一次公开道歉中，她说自己很沮丧，“无数个夜里”失眠，并且有时会后悔当总统。
“She has grown noticeably wan,” said Chung Jin-suk, the floor leader of Park’s governing party, Saenuri, who visited her in the Blue House on Tuesday. “She said a few times that she was sorry to our lawmakers.”
“她明显变得憔悴了，”朴槿惠所在的执政党新国家党(Saenuri)议会党团主席郑镇硕(Chung Jin-suk)说。他周二去青瓦台看望了朴槿惠。“她好几次说自己愧对我们的议员。”
Since the scandal began to break into public view in October, over allegations that Park conspired with Choi to extort tens of millions of dollars from big businesses and to help Choi, who had no official post, manipulate government affairs from the shadows, Park has rarely been seen in public.
在这起丑闻中，朴槿惠被指与崔顺实合谋从大公司敲诈数千万美元，并协助没有官职的崔顺实暗中操纵政府事务。自丑闻10月开始进入公众视线以来，朴槿惠甚少出现在公共场合。
She last met a foreign visitor on Nov. 10, when she greeted a presidential delegation from Kazakhstan, the same day she spoke on the phone with President-elect Donald Trump.
她最后一次会见外宾是11月10日接待来自哈萨克斯坦的总统代表团。同一天，她和美国候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)通了电话。
She has delivered three televised apologies, each only several minutes long, sometimes choking with emotion. “My heart is crushed,” she said, “when I think I cannot resolve the deep disappointment and anger of the people even if I apologize 100 times.”
她三次在电视上道歉，每次的时间都只有几分钟。有时，她情绪激动，声音哽塞。“我感到心碎，”她说，“因为我觉得即使道100次歉，也无法消除民众的深深失望和愤怒。”
She was said to have heard the weekly protests calling for her to leave office. Those protests have grown from 20,000 people in central Seoul six weeks ago to about 1.7 million on Saturday, who came within a few hundred feet of her compound, shouting, “Evict her!”
据说，她听到了每周要求她下台的抗议声。抗议的规模已经从六周前首尔市中心的2万人，发展到了上周六的大约170万人。他们来到离她的住地几百英尺的地方高喊，“把她赶走！”
“The president heard the people’s voices with a heavy heart,” Jung Youn-kuk, Park’s spokesman, said after one of the protests, though he did not clarify whether she heard the protesters’ shouts through her window or, as one South Korean news outlet has reported, watched them on TV.
“总统听到了民众的声音，心情沉重，”朴槿惠的发言人郑然国(Jung Youn-kuk)在一场抗议结束后说。但他未明确表示朴槿惠是透过窗户听到抗议呼声的，还是像韩国一家新闻机构报道的那样，在电视上看到的。
Beyond that, her aides have declined to discuss her daily routine or her mood these days, except to say that she was taking the crisis gravely and was doing her best to deal with it.
除此之外，她的助手拒绝讨论她这些天的日常生活和心情，只说她很重视这场危机，正在全力应对。
They said she had invited Christian leaders and a top Buddhist monk to visit her last month to offer advice on the crisis. Her office did not disclose what they told her, except that the monk had quoted Buddhist scripture, saying, “A tree bears fruit when it sheds flowers.”
他们说她上月邀请数位基督教领袖和一位佛教高僧上门，听取他们就这场危机的看法。她的办公室未透露他们对她说了什么，但表示那位高僧引用了佛教经文，说“落花结果”。
For many in South Korea, the flower has already fallen. As Park’s approval rating has plummeted, shop owners across the country have pulled down pictures of her they once hung proudly on the wall.
对很多韩国人来说，这朵花已经凋落了。随着朴槿惠的支持率暴跌，韩国全国各地的店家都取下了他们曾经自豪地挂在墙上的朴槿惠照片。
For Park, the Blue House itself is ablaze with memories.
对朴槿惠来说，青瓦台本身就充满了回忆。
She first moved there at age 9, when her father, Maj. Gen. Park Chung-hee, seized power in a military coup in 1961. At 22, after her mother was killed in an assassination attempt against her father, she became his acting first lady. In 1979, after her father was assassinated amid widespread protests against his dictatorship, she left the presidential palace, only to return as president in 2013.
她第一次搬进那里才9岁。当时，她的父亲、身为少将的朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)在1961年的一场军事政变中夺权。22岁时，当她的母亲在一场针对她父亲的暗杀行动中去世后，她成了父亲的代理第一夫人。1979年，当她父亲在一片反独裁抗议中遇刺身亡后，她离开了这座总统官邸，直到2013年以总统的身份回归。
In between, she lived a secluded life in southern Seoul, in a house plastered with photos of her dead parents and adorned with their relics.
在这中间，她在首尔南部的一栋房子里过着隐居生活。房子里张贴着离世父母的照片，摆放着他们的遗物。
“Her home was more like a museum for Park Chung-hee,” Choi Sang-yeon, an editorial writer at the South Korean daily JoongAng Ilbo, wrote recently of his visit there a decade ago. “It looked as if her clock had stopped in the 1970s and she spent much time communicating with her dead father.”
“她的家就是像一个朴正熙博物馆，”韩国报纸《中央日报》(JoongAng Ilbo)的主笔崔尚勇（Choi Sang-yeon，音）最近写到自己十年前去那里的经历时说。“看上去她的时钟好像停在了70年代，她把大量时间用在和去世的父亲交流上。”
Choi described the atmosphere there as “heavy and dark.”
崔尚勇说那里的气氛“沉重、悲观”。
In her 1993 memoir, “What If I Were Born in an Ordinary Family,” Park wrote of her tragic family history and her sadness: “In my life’s scale, the worthwhile times have never outweighed painful ones.”
在1993年的回忆录《如果我生在普通家庭会怎样》(What If I Were Born in an Ordinary Family)中，朴槿惠写到家族历史悲剧和自己的悲伤时说：“在我的一生中，愉快的时光从未超过痛苦的时光。”
In the end, Park’s cloistered life may have set the stage for her political implosion.
最终，隐居生活可能为朴槿惠的政治溃败埋下了伏笔。
She has said she often spends evenings alone reading government reports. She shuns one-on-one meetings with senior aides. Her former cook told a South Korean magazine that she usually ate alone, watching TV.
她曾说自己晚上经常一个人看政府报告。她避免和高级助手举行一对一的会议。她的前厨师对韩国一家杂志表示，她常常一个人吃饭，一边吃一边看电视。
She has said she cut ties with her brother and sister to prevent nepotism, a bane of past South Korean presidents. She has two dogs, white Jindos, a Korean breed prized for its loyalty.
她还说自己切断了与弟弟和妹妹的联系，为的是防止裙带关系，多位韩国前总统都是毁在这个上面。她养了两只狗，都是白色的珍岛犬。这是一个韩国品种，因忠诚而备受珍爱。
Her trusted friend and adviser all these years was Choi Soon-sil, whose family had befriended her while her father was still in power.
这些年里，她信任的朋友和顾问一直是崔顺实。在他父亲还在位时，崔顺实的家人便和她成为了朋友。
After becoming president, Park has said that she continued to rely on Choi to look after her wardrobe and other personal affairs.
朴槿惠说，担任总统后她仍依靠崔顺实负责自己的服装和其他私事。
Prosecutors said Choi did far more than that, and they have indicted her on extortion and other charges. While Park cannot be indicted while she holds office, the indictment of Choi identified Park as a criminal accomplice, a first for a president.
检方称崔顺实所做的远不仅限于此，并已对她提出敲诈勒索和其他指控。尽管朴槿惠在职期间不会受到指控，但控告崔顺实的起诉书确认朴槿惠是共犯，这对韩国总统来说属于首次。
In her apologies, a grim-faced Park has said she could not forgive herself for letting her guard down with Choi, who she said had helped her during her “lonely” and “difficult times.” But she admitted no legal wrongdoing.
道歉时，一脸严肃的朴槿惠称无法原谅自己放松了对崔顺实的警惕。说到崔顺实时，她说对方在她“孤独”和“困难的时期”帮助了她。但她不承认自己有违法行为。
By this time, few Koreans trusted her. According to opinion polls, she had become the least popular president since South Korea began democratizing in the late 1980s.
到如今，韩国鲜有信任她的人。民调显示，她已经成了自韩国80年代末民主化以来最不受欢迎的总统。
She has tried to restore a semblance of normalcy to her besieged administration by making appointments of ambassadors and deputy Cabinet ministers. Her government also pressed ahead with signing a controversial military intelligence sharing pact with Japan.
她试图通过约见大使和内阁副部长，来让自己四面受敌的政府恢复一切正常的样子。她领导的政府还在继续推动与日本签订一项有争议的军事情报共享协定。
It all may be too little, too late, and the crowds outside the Blue House on a recent Saturday evinced little sympathy.
大概一切都太微不足道、都为时已晚。最近一个周六，青瓦台外面的人群几乎没有表现出同情。
“If you are so lonely,” some chanted, “why don’t you go and join Choi Soon-sil in her prison cell?”
“如果你这么孤独，”一些人高喊着，“何不去牢房里和崔顺实会合？”