When Greece hit the skids almost four years ago, some analysts (myself included) thought that we might be seeing the beginning of the end for the euro, Europe’s common currency. Others were more optimistic, believing that tough love — temporary aid tied to reform — would soon produce recovery. Both camps were wrong. What we actually got was a rolling crisis that never seems to reach any kind of resolution. Every time Europe seems ready to go over the edge, policy makers find a way to avoid complete disaster. But every time there are hints of true recovery, something else goes wrong.
四年前希腊陷入困境时，有的分析师（也包括我在内）以为，我们将开始见证欧洲的共同货币——欧元的终结。其他人稍微乐观一些，认为那些跟改革挂钩的临时援助——也就是所谓的严厉的爱，会很快推动经济复苏。两派观点都错了。我们最后获得的结果，是一个不断发展中的经济危机，好像永远没有尽头。每一次，当欧洲看似走到了崩溃的边缘，政策制定者们总能找到方法避免全面灾难的爆发。但是每一次露出真正复苏的苗头的时候，肯定又会在什么地方出现问题。
And here we go again. Not long ago, European officials were declaring that the Continent had turned the corner, that market confidence was returning and growth was resuming. But now there’s a new source of concern, as the specter of deflation looms over much of Europe. And the debate over how to respond is turning seriously ugly.
现在又出现了之前的情况。不久前，欧洲官员宣布，欧洲大陆已经触底反弹，市场重获信心，经济重新开始增长。但是现在，人们又有新的担心，因为通缩的幽灵开始浮现在欧洲的大部分地区。就怎么应对这个问题，人们开始激烈辩论，吵得不可开交。
Some background: The European Central Bank or E.C.B., Europe’s equivalent of the Federal Reserve, is supposed to keep inflation close to 2 percent. Why not zero? Several reasons, but the most important point right now is that an overall European inflation rate too close to zero would translate into actual deflation in the troubled economies of southern Europe. And deflation has nasty economic side effects, especially in countries already burdened by high debt.
介绍一些背景信息：欧洲央行(ECB)相当于欧洲的美联储。他们本该将通货膨胀控制在2%左右。为什么不是零通胀呢？有好几个原因，但是现阶段最重要的一点是，如果整个欧洲的通胀率太接近零的话，就意味着经济遇到问题的南欧地区实际上出现通缩。而通缩会带来恶劣的经济副作用，特别是对于那些债台高筑的国家来说。
So it’s a source of great concern that European inflation has started dropping far below target; over the past year, consumer prices rose only 0.7 percent, while “core” prices that exclude volatile food and energy costs rose only 0.8 percent.
因此，当欧洲的通胀水平远低于预期目标，人们感到非常担心；过去一年中，消费者价格仅增长0.7%，而除去波动剧烈的食品和能源价格的“核心”价格仅增长0.8%。
Something had to be done, and last week the E.C.B. cut interest rates. As policy decisions go, this had the distinction of being both obviously appropriate and obviously inadequate: Europe’s economy clearly needs a boost, but the E.C.B.’s action will surely make, at best, a marginal difference. Still, it was a move in the right direction.
人们必须要做些什么。于是在上个礼拜，欧洲央行降低了利率。就政策决议来说，这一决定很显然是正确的，但也很显然力度不够：欧洲的经济当然需要刺激，但是欧洲央行的这一行为，最多也只能起到微小作用。当然，这个动作的方向是正确的。
Yet the move was hugely controversial, both inside and outside the E.C.B. And the controversy took an ominous form, at least for anyone who remembers Europe’s terrible history. For arguments over European monetary policy aren’t just a battle of ideas; increasingly, they sound like a battle of nations, too.
但是这一决定却在欧洲央行内外引发了大量争议。而且，至少是对那些还记得欧洲的可怕历史的人来说，争议的内容所预示的兆头相当不好。这是因为，对于欧洲货币政策的争议不只是思想之争那么简单；它听上去越来越像国家之间的斗争。
For example, who voted against the rate cut? Both German members of the E.C.B. board, joined by the leaders of the Dutch and Austrian central banks. Who, outside the E.C.B., was harshest in criticizing the action? German economists, who made a point not just of attacking the substance of the bank’s action but of emphasizing the nationality of Mario Draghi, the bank’s president, who is Italian. The influential German economist Hans-Werner Sinn declared that Mr. Draghi was just trying to give Italy access to low-interest loans. The chief economist of the newsweekly WirtschaftsWoche called the rate cut a “diktat from a new Banca d’Italia, based in Frankfurt.”
比方说，究竟是谁投票反对降低利率？欧洲央行委员会中的两名德国成员都是反对者，此外还有荷兰和奥地利央行的负责人。而在欧洲央行之外，谁对于降息的批评又最严厉？是德国经济学家，他们不仅攻击欧洲央行降息行为本身，还强调了欧洲央行行长，意大利人马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)的国籍。汉斯-韦尔纳·辛恩(Hans-Werner Sinn)是一位影响力颇大的德国经济学家，他表示，德拉吉不过是想要给意大利提供低息贷款。德国《经济周刊》的首席经济学家在评价此次降息行动时表示，“这是一道强制命令，来自新的、位于法兰克福的意大利央行。”
Such insinuations are grossly unfair to Mr. Draghi, whose efforts to contain the euro crisis have been little short of heroic. I’d go so far as to say that the euro probably would have collapsed in 2011 or 2012 without his leadership. But never mind the personalities. What’s scary here is the way this is turning into the Teutons versus the Latins, with the euro — which was supposed to bring Europe together — pulling it apart instead.
这类含沙射影的评论对于德拉吉是相当不公平的，他在控制欧元危机方面做出的努力完全称得上是一个英雄的所作所为。我甚至认为，如果不是他的领导，可能欧元在2011年或者2012年就崩溃了。但是这里暂时不谈人格问题。让人害怕的是，现在局面正在演变成为条顿人对抗拉丁人，而本来应该将欧洲弥合在一起的欧元，实际上反过来却让欧洲分崩离析。
What’s going on? Some of it is national stereotyping: the German public is eternally vigilant against the prospect that those lazy southern Europeans are going to make off with its hard-earned money. But there’s also a real issue here. Germans just hate inflation, but if the E.C.B. succeeds in getting average European inflation back up to around 2 percent, it will push inflation in Germany — which is booming even as other European nations suffer Depression-like levels of unemployment — substantially higher than that, maybe to 3 percent or more.
究竟发生了什么情况？部分原因是对别国的成见：德国民众一直都非常警惕这样一种可能，即懒惰的南欧人会拿走他们辛辛苦苦赚来的钱。但是还有一个切实的问题在这儿。现在，虽然其他欧洲国家正在经历大萧条似的失业率，但是德国却经济情况良好。德国人如此厌恶通货膨胀，但如果欧洲央行成功地将欧洲平均通胀水平拉回2%附近，那么这将大大推升德国的通胀水平，远超2%，可能会达到3%甚至以上。
This may sound bad, but it’s how the euro is supposed to work. In fact, it’s the way it has to work. If you’re going to share a currency with other countries, sometimes you’re going to have above-average inflation. In the years before the global financial crisis, Germany had low inflation while countries like Spain had relatively high inflation. Now the rules of the game require that the roles be reversed, and the question is whether Germany is prepared to accept those rules. And the answer to that question isn’t clear.
这听上去很糟糕，但是欧元理论上应该按照这种方式运作。事实上，欧元必须按照这种方式运作。如果你跟其他国家使用同一种货币，有时候你就必须要经历比一般水平要高的通胀。在全球金融危机之前的那些年，德国的通胀水平低而西班牙等国家的通胀水平相对较高。现在根据游戏规则，双方位置互换，问题是德国是否已经准备好接受这些游戏规则。对于这个问题，目前还没有很清晰的回答。
The truly sad thing is that, as I said, the euro was supposed to bring Europe together, in ways both substantive and symbolic. It was supposed to encourage closer economic ties, even as it fostered a sense of shared identity. What we’re getting instead, however, is a climate of anger and disdain on the part of both creditors and debtors. And the end is still nowhere in sight.
正如我所说的，真正的悲哀在于，欧元本来是应该将欧洲弥合在一起的，不论是从实际意义上还是象征意义上。它本该促进更紧密的经济纽带，甚至培育出人们对共同身份的认同。但是我们实际上获得的，却是债权人债务人双方的相互愤懑和不齿。而且现在还看不到结局究竟会是如何。