KABUL, Afghanistan — The Afghan presidential election on Saturday appeared to be substantially cleaner than the widely discredited 2009 election, according to complaint figures released Tuesday by the authorities here.
阿富汗喀布尔——根据当局在周二公布的投诉数据，周六的阿富汗总统大选，看来要比受到广泛质疑的2009年选举规范得多。
None of the leading candidates have said so far that they would dispute this year’s balloting, whose results have not yet been announced. Widespread complaints about ballot-box stuffing in 2009 led the country’s Independent Election Complaints Commission to order a recount, which cost President Hamid Karzai the outright majority that he initially appeared to have secured, though he still won a second term.
迄今为止，几名主要的候选人都没有对今年的投票过程提出质疑。目前，投票结果尚未公布。2009年曾出现大量的假票投诉，促使该国的独立选举投诉委员会(Independent Election Complaints Commission)下令重新计票，从而导致哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)总统失去了原本看似已经毫无争议的绝对多数，不过他仍然获得了连任。
“The scale of fraud and violations in this election was much lower compared to previous elections,” said Nader Mohseni, the spokesman for the commission, citing both international and Afghan election observers.
“本次选举中的舞弊和违规情况相比上次选举要少很多，”委员会发言人纳德尔·莫赫塞尼(Nader Mohseni)说，他还援引了国内外选举观察人士的评论。
In the 48-hour period for filing complaints, which ended Monday night, the commission recorded 1,573 formal complaints, Mr. Mohseni said. “Compared with 7.5 million people who voted, that number is very small,” he said. “That’s what the international observers believe as well.” He said that 228 of the complaints were lodged against one or another of the eight presidential candidates or their campaigns.
莫赫塞尼说，在于周一晚间结束的48小时投诉提交期内，委员会共记录了1573宗正式投诉。“相比750万的选民人数，这个数字是非常小的，”他说。“国际观察人士也是这么认为。”他说其中228宗的投诉对象是八名总统候选人中的某一位或是其竞选活动。
By contrast, the commission recorded 2,842 complaints after the 2009 election, according to the National Democratic Institute. The institute had international monitors in Afghanistan in 2009 and tried again this year, but withdrew the monitors shortly before the voting after one was killed in an attack by insurgents.
相比之下，据国际民主研究院(National Democratic Institute)的数据，委员会在2009年选举后记录了2842宗投诉。研究院在2009年曾派驻国际观察员到阿富汗，今年也有同样的打算，但一名观察员在投票开始前不久遭叛乱分子袭击身亡，迫使研究院放弃了这个计划。
Under Afghan election law, the candidates are supposed to refrain from claiming victory until the official results are released, which may not come until April 24, officials have said.
根据阿富汗选举法，候选人必须等到官方公布结果后才能宣告自己获胜，而官员称可能要到4月24日才能公布结果。
Nonetheless, of the three major candidates, two have let it be known that they believed they had won outright by taking more than 50 percent of the vote in the first round.
尽管如此，在三个主要候选人中，还是有两个已经放出话来，称他们相信自己在第一轮投票中得票率超过50%，以绝对优势获胜。
One candidate — Ashraf Ghani, a former World Bank official and longtime Karzai aide — went as far as posting a pie chart on his personal Facebook page showing 57 percent of the vote for him, with Abdullah Abdullah, the runner-up in 2009, supposedly receiving 26 percent and Zalmay Rassoul, Mr. Karzai’s former foreign minister, a distant third with 10 percent. The pie chart was apparently based on tabulations of 5.12 million votes compiled by Mr. Ghani’s campaign.
其中一位候选人，前世界银行(World Bank)官员、任卡尔扎伊幕僚多年的艾什勒弗·贾尼(Ashraf Ghani)甚至在自己的Facebook页面上贴了一张饼图，显示自己得到了57%的选票，而2009年屈居第二的阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉(Abdullah Abdullah)据称得票26%，排名第三的前卡尔扎伊政府外交部长扎勒迈·拉苏尔(Zalmay Rassoul)仅为10%。这张饼图的依据，似乎是贾尼的选举团队根据512万张选票所编制的图表。
“Congratulations to him,” Mr. Abdullah said mockingly of Mr. Ghani’s claims, which were later withdrawn from his Facebook page. “And he’s been very gracious in according me, also, some votes in the country, so I’m grateful.”
“恭喜他了，”阿卜杜拉用嘲弄的口气评价贾尼的说法。“他很大方，还把这个国家的一些选票给了我，对此我感激不尽。”贾尼后来收回了他的Facebook帖子。
In an interview on Monday, Mr. Abdullah said his 20,000 observers had reported results to him, but that he was going to wait until the election commission released its official tallies before speaking about his own. “We have to respect the rule of law here,” he said.
在周一的一次采访中，阿卜杜拉说他的2万名观察员已经向他报告了结果，但是他打算等到选举委员会公布官方统计后再拿出自己的数据。“我们必须尊重这里的法治，”他说。
But people involved in his campaign released figures they said were based on analysis of 2.25 million votes (about one-third of the total cast), showing Mr. Abdullah with 50 percent; by their reckoning, Mr. Ghani was running second with 38 percent and Mr. Rassoul third with 10 percent.
但是他竞选团队的工作人员公布了一些数据，显示阿卜杜拉有50%的得票率，据他们说这是对225万张选票（约全部选票的三分之一）进行分析得出的；根据他们的估算，贾尼以38%居第二，第三名拉苏尔为10%。
Whatever the credibility of these rival counts, it seemed likely that the contest was coming down to Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah. Mr. Ghani claimed as much in an interview Sunday: “The pattern has become clear, the losers are clear. It has become a two-way race, whatever else one says.”
不管这些截然不同的数字可信度如何，看起来最终的竞争是在贾尼和阿卜杜拉之间进行的。贾尼在周日的采访中也明确地说：“形势已经很清楚，输家也已经很清楚。不管其他人怎么说，现在是两个选手的较量了。”
For his part, Mr. Rassoul has been silent about the results, and efforts to reach his campaign spokesmen for comment were unsuccessful. One former Afghan official who is close to Mr. Rassoul, however, said his campaign had concluded that it would most likely place third behind Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah.
拉苏尔对选举结果一直保持沉默，本文试图联系他的竞选发言人请求置评，但未能成功。然而，一名和拉苏尔过从甚密的前阿富汗官员说，他的竞选团队已经得出结论，他极有可能排在贾尼和阿卜杜拉后面，名列第三。
Mr. Rassoul was the only one of the three major candidates who made a clear promise to accept whatever results the election commission announces. Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah have each praised the election as relatively clean, but both have registered complaints of irregularities and stopped short of committing to accept the official outcome.
三名主要候选人中，只有拉苏尔已经明确承诺，无论委员会公布什么样的结果都会接受。贾尼和阿卜杜拉都赞扬了本次选举相对比较规范，但两人也都举报了不合规行为，并且没有承诺会接受官方的一切结果。
“The scale of the fraud is not massive,” Mr. Ghani said. Mr. Abdullah said the 2014 poll was “much cleaner” than 2009 and that he “would accept the results in accordance with the process, yes, whatever, anything — but not ballot papers from the sky.”
“欺诈的情况不是很严重，”贾尼说。阿卜杜拉则说2013年的投票比2009年“规矩很多”，他“会接受一切符合程序的结果，什么都可以——但不能接受天上掉下来的选票。”
There were major differences in campaign monitoring this year, compared with 2009. The five-member complaints commission had three foreign members in 2009, but this year it is entirely Afghan. Similarly, there was extensive international influence over the election commission in 2009; this year it is headed by Mohammad Yusuf Nuristani, a former spokesman for Mr. Karzai’s government.
今年的竞选监测和2009年相比有很大不同。在2009年，五人组成的投诉委员会中有三名外国人，今年则全部由阿富汗人担任。同样地，2009年的选举委员会受到了国际社会的广泛影响；今年的委员会则由前卡尔扎伊政府发言人穆罕默德·优素福·努里斯塔尼(Mohammad Yusuf Nuristani)领导。
International monitoring groups and United Nations officials have praised both bodies for doing a credible job. And in the years since 2009, a small army of Afghans have been trained as poll-watchers and monitors, working for political parties and civic organizations as well as international groups.
两个委员会都受到了国际观察组织和联合国官员的赞扬，称它们的工作是可靠的。2009年以来，有许多阿富汗人接受了投票观察和监督的培训，为政党和民间组织以及国际机构工作。
Mr. Mohseni of the complaints commission said it would take time to investigate the reports of irregularities, and he did not rule out possible action. “The fact that the election was successful does not mean there has not been fraud and violations during the election,” he said.
投诉委员会的莫赫塞尼说，举报的不合规行为需要用上一段时间来调查，他没有排除采取行动的可能。“选举的成功并不表示选举期间没有舞弊和违规，”他说。