Stepparents, the villains of so many fairy tales and other children’s stories, get some redemption in “The Smurfs 2,” a new, not very engaging movie featuring a lot of blue skin and household-name voices.
继父母们是那么多童话和儿童故事里的恶人，在《蓝精灵2》(The Smurfs 2)中终于得到了一点补偿。这部新片中有许多蓝皮肤的小伙伴和家喻户晓的声音，却不是那么引人入胜。
Like the initial Smurfs movie, in 2011, this one is a mix of live action and animation, something that displeased a segment of the Smurf fan base the first time and will certainly do so again. The first one was set in New York. Here the action switches to Paris as the nefarious Gargamel (Hank Azaria, again putting more effort into his role than anyone else is) sets out to increase his supply of Smurf essence. Yes, Smurf essence. Don’t ask.
和2011年的第一部蓝精灵影片一样，这部片子也是将真人表演和动画相结合。这种做法在第一部影片中就已令一部分蓝精灵迷们颇感不快，这一次他们自然也不会高兴。第一部的背景设定在纽约。这一次，故事发生在巴黎，邪恶的格格巫（饰演者汉克·阿扎利亚[Hank Azaria]再一次为这个角色付出了最多心血）想增添自己的“蓝精灵精华”。是的，蓝精灵精华，别问我这是什么东西。
He sends two Smurf-size emissaries to the blue world to kidnap Smurfette (the voice of Katy Perry), and the inevitable rescue mission begins shortly after. Neil Patrick Harris and Jayma Mays again play the Smurf-friendly human couple who help the rescue along, though neither seems very happy about being in a Smurf sequel. Brendan Gleeson turns up as the stepfather of Mr. Harris’s character, his primary purpose being to teach everyone that a stepdad can be a worthy substitute for your biological dad if you’ll just give him a chance.
他派出了两个和蓝精灵个头一样的使者到蓝色世界里拐走了蓝妹妹（凯蒂·派瑞[Katy Perry]配音），不可避免的拯救行动很快展开。尼尔·帕特里克·哈里斯(Neil Patrick Harris)和杰玛·梅斯(Jayma Mays)再度饰演对蓝精灵友善的人类夫妇，在拯救行动中一直帮助他们，尽管他俩似乎都不太情愿出演《蓝精灵》续集。布莱丹·格里森(Brendan Gleeson)饰演哈里斯的继父，这个角色的主要目的是告诉大家，只要你给他机会，继父也可以成为亲生父亲的好替补。
The movie doesn’t have the wit of the first installment and seems as if it might be hard for young children to follow, though who knows with young children? John Oliver, Jimmy Kimmel, Alan Cumming and Jeff Foxworthy are among those contributing Smurf voices, and Jonathan Winters left this life in April being able to say that one of his last jobs was providing the voice of Papa Smurf, the big-hearted patriarch of the Smurf world.
这部影片没有第一部中的那种机智，而且小孩子不一定看得懂，但是谁知道小孩子会怎样呢？约翰·奥利弗(John Oliver)、吉米·坎摩尔(Jimmy Kimmel)、艾伦·卡明(Alan Cumming)和杰夫·福克斯沃西(Jeff Foxworthy)都在为蓝精灵配音的演员行列。而今年4月去世的乔纳森·温特斯(Jonathan Winters)生前最后的工作之一就是为蓝精灵世界里宽宏大量的家长蓝爸爸配音。