YANGON, Myanmar — Tired of running a nightclub in Geneva, the businessman known as Sharky was looking for a second act. So he returned to his native Myanmar and hatched an unlikely idea: growing and making fine food in an impoverished military dictatorship.
缅甸仰光——一位绰号为“鲨鱼”(Sharky)的商人厌倦了在日内瓦经营夜店，开始寻找新的方向。他返回祖国缅甸，酝酿了一个不太靠谱的想法：在这个贫困的军事独裁国家种植食材，烹制美食。
Sharky, whose real name is U Ye Htut Win, has spent a decade hurdling the obstacles of producing European food in the tropics. He experimented with varieties of tomatoes, spinach and arugula that could tolerate steamy heat, and found a remote spot along the Indian Ocean where he could make fleur de sel, the fine salt flakes harvested from the sea. He improvised, using local buffalo milk to make striking facsimiles of French and Swiss cheeses. He attracted a loyal following among diplomats and expatriates, and served one particularly prestigious customer, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel laureate, who ordered Sharky’s goat cheese while she was under house arrest.
“鲨鱼”的真名是耶塔温(Ye Htut Win)，他花十年时间克服了在热带烹制欧洲美食的各种障碍。他用能经受湿热环境的番茄、菠菜和芝麻菜等各种食材做试验，沿着印度洋找到一个能制作海盐的偏僻地方。他因地制宜，用当地的水牛奶制作奶酪，它与法国和瑞士的奶酪惊人地相似。他在外交官和侨民中吸引了一批忠实顾客，此外还有一位特别尊贵的顾客——诺贝尔和平奖得主昂山素季。她被软禁期间经常买“鲨鱼”的山羊奶酪外卖。
In a country where rice is the universal staple, Sharky produced brown breads, baguettes and croissants, earning the respect of those with considerable bread-making pedigrees. And in the process, he single-handedly created the beginnings of a food culture here that mixes local resources and Western traditions.
在一个以大米为主食的国家，“鲨鱼”制作黑面包、长棍面包和羊角面包，赢得了一些面包制作世家的尊重。在这个过程中，他在缅甸一手创立了把地方食材与西方传统相结合的美食文化。
“What is remarkable about his products is how he applies know-how, learned from farmers, producers and books, to local ingredients,” said Apollonia Poilâne, the scion of the family that makes the sourdough breads known as pain Poilâne in Paris and London. “Adjusting baking methods takes skill and thought,” she wrote in an email. “The result is amazing in the most delicious way.”
“他的产品的非凡之处就在于：他把自己从农民、制作商和书上学来的技术用于当地食材，”普瓦拉纳(Poilâne)家族的子嗣阿波洛尼娅·普瓦拉纳(Apollonia Poilâne)说，这个家族在巴黎和伦敦拥有普瓦拉纳面包房，专门制作酵母面包。她在电子邮件中说，“调整烘焙方法需要技巧和思考”，“他试验的结果令人惊叹，非常美味”。
Ms. Poilâne, who met Sharky during a vacation in Myanmar late last year, called him “the best of today’s globalized world: thinking global but acting local.”
普瓦拉纳去年年底在缅甸度假时遇见“鲨鱼”，她称他是“当今全球化世界的典范：用全球眼光思考，在当地采取行动。”
By the standards of today’s agro-industries, Sharky, 56, is a minnow. But over the last three years, as Myanmar has opened to the world and begun to shed the legacy of five decades of cloistered military dictatorship, Sharky’s business has taken off. He owns a restaurant and food shop here that bears his name. These days he cannot bake enough bread or make enough ice cream, yogurt and cheese to satisfy the demand from the hotels that host the influx of foreign tourists and from a wealthy Burmese elite that is increasingly exposed to the outside world and Western tastes. To ramp up production, he is spending $2 million to build a factory on the outskirts of Yangon.
按照当今农工业(agro-industries)的标准，56岁的“鲨鱼”只是一条小鲦鱼。但是在过去三年里，随着缅甸对外开放，逐渐摆脱五十年军事独裁闭关锁国的阴影，“鲨鱼”的生意开始兴隆起来。他拥有一家以自己的名字命名的餐馆和食品店。如今，他制作的面包和冰激凌供不应求，深受蜂拥而至的外国游客喜爱，更多接触外部世界和西方口味的缅甸富裕精英阶层也纷纷追捧。为了增加产量，他投资200万美元在仰光市郊修建了一个工厂。
Military rule, which began with a coup in 1962, cut off Myanmar from the dynamism of its neighbors and kept the country in a poverty-stricken, dictatorial time warp. But for Sharky, it provided a cocoon of experimentation. He was shielded from the forces of global competition, in a country with no local rivals. And the generals didn’t see his business as a threat.
1962年缅甸发生政变，实行军事统治，切断与蓬勃发展的邻国的联系，进入贫困的独裁时期。不过这为“鲨鱼”提供了一个做试验的保护壳，他既没有来自国际上的竞争对手，也没有当地竞争对手。而且那些将军们不把他的生意当作一种威胁。
“The thing about military rule was that if you didn’t go into politics, they left you alone,” Sharky said. “They didn’t care about someone making cheese.”
“军事统治就是你不招惹政治，他们也不管你，”“鲨鱼”说，“他们才不在乎一个做奶酪的人。”
Talking with Sharky requires concentration. Food facts spill from his mouth in a sort of stream of consciousness. He tells a visitor that tomatoes do not pollinate above 32 degrees Celsius (89.6 degrees Fahrenheit); that his buffaloes give seven liters of milk a day; that his pigs swim in lakes to make their legs stronger. He describes the “salt bunker” he constructed to age his meats.
跟“鲨鱼”谈话需要集中注意力。关于食物的各种事从他口中源源不绝地涌出来，近乎意识流。他对一位游客说，番茄在32摄氏度以上的环境中不能授粉；他的水牛每天产7升奶；他让猪在湖里游泳，好让它们的腿更强壮。他还描述自己修建的腌肉“盐坑”。
“He is incredibly passionate to the point of obsessive,” said Richard Horsey, an early customer of Sharky’s who worked for the United Nations in Myanmar while the country was under military rule.
“他特别热情，到了痴迷的程度，”“鲨鱼”的一位早期顾客理查德·霍西(Richard Horsey)说。军事统治时期，霍西在缅甸为联合国工作。
The son of a Burmese diplomat, Sharky had a nomadic upbringing in Britain, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Sri Lanka, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates.
“鲨鱼”是一位缅甸外交官的儿子，他的成长期在英国、以色列、意大利、约旦、斯里兰卡、瑞士和阿拉伯联合酋长国度过。
“I’m rootless, and that has given me a big advantage,” he said over lunch at his restaurant that included his whole-milk mozzarella sprinkled with olive oil, crunchy Indian Ocean fleur de sel, Burmese pepper and Myanmar lemons. “I’m willing to break the rules. I’m willing to embrace anything.”
“我四处漂泊，这让我拥有一个很大的优势，”我们在他的餐厅共进午餐时他说。午餐包括浇橄榄油的全脂马苏里拉奶酪、嚼起来嘎吱作响的印度洋海盐、缅甸胡椒和缅甸柠檬。“我乐于打破规则。我乐于接受一切。”
His first taste of the food business began, incongruously, at a Geneva branch of Wendy’s, the American fast food chain, when he was 21. He mopped the floors and took out the trash and worked his way up to manager, all the while learning French. After a stint running a cocktail bar, he opened a nightclub, the Underground, in the city’s old town. His sharp-edged ambition earned him his nickname and enough money to build his parents a teak house, in the style of a Swiss chalet, in Rangoon, as Myanmar’s largest city was formerly known.
不过，他首次踏足饮食业却是在美国快餐连锁店Wendy’s的日内瓦分店。当时他21岁，一边学法语，一边从拖地、倒垃圾升至经理。在短暂经营一个鸡尾酒吧之后，他在日内瓦的老城区开了个夜店，名叫地下(Underground)。锋芒毕露的野心为他赢得了“鲨鱼”的绰号，也让他赚够了钱，为父母在缅甸最大的城市仰光建了一座瑞士木屋风格的柚木房子。
In 1996, he traded the flash and glamour of his nightclub for a career with dirt under his fingernails. “I came back here to recycle myself,” he said. “I wanted to go back to the earth. I wanted to be a farmer.”
1996年，他放下夜店的光鲜魅力，干起了满手泥土的事业。“我回到这里重新开始，”他说，“我想回归大地。我想当个农民。”
He recruited rice farmers from three poor villages in the delta of the Irrawaddy River and introduced them to exotic foods.
他在伊洛瓦底江三角洲的三个贫困村庄雇佣了一些稻农，向他们介绍异国风情的食物。
“We hired people who had no idea what a Camembert was,” Sharky said. “They’ve never eaten cheese in their life or even thought about it. They come to me as raw stones that I polish into rubies.”
“我们雇佣的那些人对卡芒贝尔奶酪没有一点概念，”“鲨鱼”说，“他们从没吃过奶酪，连想都没想过。他们像未经打磨的石头，我把他们磨成了红宝石。”
He experimented with milk from Indian buffaloes brought to the country during its days as a British colony. The dairy farmers were descendants of Indian Muslims who had come to Burma with their buffaloes. Sharky now makes most of his cheeses, including one he calls Pavé de Mandalay, with buffalo milk.
他用印度水牛奶做试验。印度水牛是英国殖民时期引入缅甸的。奶农是和水牛一起来到缅甸的印度穆斯林后裔。“鲨鱼”现在用水牛奶制作大部分奶酪，其中一款被他称为曼德勒马路(Pavé de Mandalay)。
Mr. Horsey, the former U.N. official, calls Sharky’s cheeses “fantastic.”
前联合国官员霍西说，“鲨鱼”的奶酪“棒极了”。
“At its peak of ripeness, his Camembert is an unctuous, earthy pleasure,” he said. “His buffalo mozzarella is rich and creamy and soft.”
“在巅峰时期，他的卡芒贝尔奶酪是一种柔滑、质朴的享受，”他说，“他的水牛马苏里拉奶酪浓郁、滑腻、柔软。”
He added, “And what is remarkable is that he has achieved this level of quality and consistency in Myanmar, with its hot, humid climate and lack of a proper dairy industry.”
他补充说，“最不可思议的是，他能在缅甸保持这种品质水准，因为这里气候湿热，乳品业不发达。”
In the West, Sharky’s business would be described as locavore; he estimates that 80 percent of the ingredients at his restaurant come from Myanmar. But that achievement was born of necessity. Severe import restrictions and a dearth of direct flights to other countries made foreign delicacies unobtainable or prohibitively expensive under the dictatorship.
在西方，“鲨鱼”的生意会被描述为土食(locavore)。他估计自己餐馆里80%的食材产自缅甸。但这是为情势所迫。独裁时期有严格的进口限制，外国直达航班也很少，因此外国佳肴十分稀有或者价格过高。
Sharky smuggled in his equipment and ingredients from Thailand: dough-kneading machines, flour, the ferments for his cheese. He returned from trips to Europe with hundreds of pounds of excess baggage.
“鲨鱼”从泰国私运了设备和配料：揉面机、面粉和奶酪酵母。他多次赴欧洲，带回几百磅的超重行李。