A DUPLEX PENTHOUSE IN CENTRAL VIENNA
维也纳市中心，一套复式顶层豪华公寓
1.65 MILLION EUROS ($1.87 MILLION)
165万欧元（187万美元，约合人民币1172万元）
This 1,860-square-foot apartment is on the top two floors of a seven-story turn-of-the-20th-century building in the Eighth District of Vienna, which is known as Josefstadt. The two-bedroom two-bath apartment, reached by elevator, is one of two units that were built in 2007 atop the existing building. It was designed in an ultracontemporary style, with modular living spaces contained within an open floor plan, two-story-high windows and a double-height living area.
这套面积1860平方英尺（约173平方米）的公寓，占据了一栋20世纪初建造的七层建筑的顶部两层，该建筑位于维也纳的第八区，也即约瑟夫城(Josefstadt)。这套有电梯直达的两室两卫公寓，是2007年时在这栋既有建筑顶部加建的两套单元之一。公寓内部采用了超现代的设计风格，在一层开放空间中容纳着几个模块化的生活空间。屋内有几扇两层高的窗户，还有一间双层高的客厅。
An entry foyer, with a full bathroom to the right and built-in storage to the left, opens to a 625-square-foot living/dining area with a wood-burning fireplace. Three expansive windows under an angled roof offer northern views over the city’s rooftops, and a sleek cabinet unit next to the fireplace has lower and upper storage. Floors throughout the apartment are parquet wood in a modern pattern.
该公寓一进门是间门厅，门厅的左边是嵌壁式储物间，右边是全功能的浴室，前方通往一间面积625平方英尺（约58平方米）的起居/餐厅区，里边有一座燃木壁炉。倾斜的屋顶下有三扇大窗，可眺望城市北边的屋顶景观。壁炉旁一套光洁的组合橱柜，上下方都带有储物格。地面满铺了现代图案的拼花木地板。
An integrated kitchen at the rear of the living space is by the Italian company Boffi and has a ventilated induction cooktop, an electric oven and concealed lighting above and below the cabinets.
起居区后侧的整体厨房，由一家意大利公司Boffi设计，内有一个带通风感应的灶台和一台电烤炉，橱柜上下都有隐蔽的光源。
Also on the first floor is a 400-square-foot space that is used as an office, with access to the bathroom and a small terrace.
一楼还有一处面积400平方英尺（约37平方米）的空间，被用作一间办公室，那里可以通往浴室及一处小平台。
A staircase leads to the second floor, where there is a 500-square-foot master suite, with a glass-enclosed rain shower set flush to the floor and two wash basins. A door leads to a 500-square-foot terrace, with a sauna to the left. The multilevel terrace has an elevated eating rotunda with remotely adjustable sunshades, as well as extensive plantings and other sheltered areas for relaxing or reading. The apartment has central air-conditioning, and parking is available in the building for a monthly fee.
有一段楼梯可通往二楼，那有一间面积500平方英尺（约47平方米）的主卧套间，带一间全封闭、水流直冲地板的雨式花洒玻璃淋浴房，和两个盥洗池。主卧里还有一扇门可通往一个面积500平方英尺（约47平方米）的平台，其左侧还有间桑拿房。这个多层平台上还有一处加高的圆形进餐区，带有遥控遮阳棚。平台上有大面积的绿化区，以及其他几处可供休息或阅读的乘凉区。这套公寓装有中央空调。楼内配有停车场，按月收费。
The Eighth District is very traditional, said Michaela Orisich of Otto Immobilien in Vienna, which is listing the property, with a number of parks, good public and private schools, and easy access to major highways and the city center via public transport. City Hall is nearby, and the Vienna airport is about 30 minutes away, she said.
第八区是个非常传统的地方，维也纳奥托房地产公司(Otto Immobilien)的米凯拉·奥里西赫(Michaela Orisich)说，该公司是这套房产的卖方代理。第八区内有多座公园，还有多所公立和私立学校，而且搭乘公共交通可以轻松前往市中心与几条主要的高速公路。市政厅就在附近，维也纳机场距此大约30分钟的路程，她说。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
The Viennese real estate market largely sailed through the 2008 recession unscathed, agents said. According to a report issued by Knight Frank real estate in London, home prices in the city rose 55 percent from the collapse of Lehman Brothers to June of last year. Overall prices in Austria rose 34.7 percent in the same period, the report said.
一些地产经纪人说，维也纳的房地产市场基本度过了2008年的经济衰退，损失不大。据伦敦莱坊国际(Knight Frank)房地产公司发布的一份报告，从雷曼兄弟破产至去年6月份为止，维也纳的住宅价格上升了55%。该报告称，在同一时期，奥地利总体房价的涨幅为34.7%。
Agents cited a number of reasons, including a limited supply of new and renovated apartments in the desirable city center, Austria’s stable economy and conservative banking system, and limits on foreign buyers that had discouraged speculation and flipping.
一些经纪人提到了房价上涨的原因，包括在大热的市中心地段，新公寓与翻修公寓的供应有限；奥地利经济发展稳定且银行体系保守；以及对外国买家的限制已经阻止了投机与炒房行为。
When the crisis hit, said Peter Marschall, the owner of Marschall Real Estate in Vienna,  “A lot of people invested in real estate as an alternative to shares. It was a secure investment.”
维也纳房地产公司Marschall Real Estate的所有者彼得·马歇尔(Peter Marschall)说，发生金融危机的时候，“很多人都会投资房地产，以此作为股票投资的一种替代方式。这是一项安全的投资。”
The luxury and second-home market in Vienna has traditionally centered on apartments in the First District, a Unesco heritage site with a wealth of Baroque architecture as well as the Imperial Palace. In recent years, as the high-end market has grown, a number of historic buildings in the center have been converted to luxury apartments. Prices in the First District range from about $1,000 per square foot to three times that or more for the most exclusive penthouses.
维也纳的豪华房地产与第二住宅市场一直以来都集中在第一区(First District)的公寓之中，该区有丰富多样的巴洛克式建筑和皇宫(Imperial Palace)，目前已被联合国科教文组织纳入了《世界遗产名录》(Unesco heritage site)。近些年来，随着高端市场的增长，市中心的大量历史建筑已被改建为豪华公寓。第一区的地产价格区间，从每平方英尺大约1000美元（每平方米约合人民币67664元）至该价格的三倍不等，而最高级的顶层豪华公寓价格则更高。
Buyers looking for houses or villas will find them in the 13th District, west of the center, as well as in the 18th and 19th Districts to the north. “You are 15 minutes by car from the city center, but you are in the countryside,” Mr. Marschall said. The very best historic houses in those districts can sell for up to $12 million, agents said, though many are under $4 million.
想购买独栋房屋或别墅的买家，可以在市中心西边的第十三区找到这类房产，也可以在北边的第十八、十九区找到。“开车15分钟就可以到达市中心，但你却住在郊区，”马歇尔说。那几个区内最好的历史名宅，可以售出1200万美元（约合人民币7518万元）的价格，一些经纪人说，不过有许多房产的价格都低于400万美元（约合人民币2506万元）。
Prices tend to fall as buyers move away from the First District, said Alexander Koch de Gooreynd, the international residential director of Knight Frank in London, which is partners with Otto in Vienna, and developers are starting to respond to the limited supply there.
随着买家们纷纷离开第一区，那里的房价也趋于下跌，伦敦莱坊房地产公司的国际住宅部主管亚历山大·科赫·德戈里恩德(Alexander Koch de Gooreynd)说，该公司与维也纳的奥托公司是合作伙伴。所以，开发商们也开始对那里有限的房源供给做出了反应。
In districts like the second and fifth, he said, “It’s still easy to walk into the city center, but you’re looking at price points from 750,000 to 2.5 million euros,” or about $850,000 to $2.8 million. “That is where we’re getting a lot of interest.”
在第二区与第五区这样的区域中，他说，“步行至市中心仍然很容易，但你要看的是介于75万欧元至250万欧元（约合人民币526万元至1753万元）之间的价格”，也就是大约85万美元至280万美元。“那个区间内的价格，我们最有兴趣。”
The swiftly rising prices have brought some soul-searching among Austrians, said Eggert Koch, the owner of Dr. Koch & Company real estate as younger people are finding it harder and harder to afford property. “There are two opinions,” he said, about whether the jump in prices is a good thing for the city. “One is that prices are too low — if you compare to London or Paris, it’s much, much cheaper. The other feeling is that young people can’t afford to buy here if you didn’t inherit money. If it’s a world city, then we’re too cheap, but if you live here and make money here, it’s too expensive.”
房地产公司Dr. Koch & Company real estate的所有者埃格特·科赫(Eggert Koch)说，快速上涨的房价在奥地利社会引起了一些反思，因为年轻人发现越来越难买房了。他说，关于房价暴涨是不是一件好事，“目前有两种观点。一种观点认为，房价还是太低了——如果与伦敦或巴黎比较的话，这样的房价真的相当、相当便宜。另一种观点则是，如果年轻人没有继承一笔财产的话，就无法在这里买房。如果这是一座国际化的城市，那我们的房价还是太便宜了，但如果你在这里生活和赚钱，那就太贵了。”
Nonetheless, Vienna remains a relative bargain, said Christian Sommer, the managing director of Austria for Engel & Voelkers. “If you want to spend maybe 6,000 or 7,000 euros per square meter,” or about $630 to $735 per square foot, “you can get good quality in a good location. That puts us in a good situation compared with other international locations. You get two or three times more here for the same price.”
尽管如此，维也纳仍旧保持着相对便宜的房价，Engel & Voelkers地产公司的奥地利总经理克里斯汀·萨默(Christian Sommer)说。“如果你希望每平方米大约花6000欧元（约合人民币42088元）或7000欧元（约合人民币49104元）”，也就是每平方英尺大约630美元或735美元，“你就能在非常好的地段买到高质量的房屋。因此，与其他国际城市相比，我们处于非常有利的位置。花同样的价钱，你可以在这里买到两或三倍大的面积。”
Looking ahead, there are signs that the market is cooling down, even if prices have not fallen. Chief among them is the uncertain economic situation in Russia, as well as the conflict in Ukraine. “I think this year it will not be so easy, because we are strongly influenced by the economy in Eastern Europe, and a lot of buyers come from there,” Mr. Marschall said. “But if it gets better, they will come back.”
从前景上看，有迹象表明，房地产市场正在降温，即便目前价格并没有下跌。一个最主要的影响因素就是俄罗斯尚不确定的经济形势，以及乌克兰的国内冲突。“我想今年的形势不会那么轻松吧，因为我们受到了东欧经济的很大影响，许多买家都来自东欧，”马歇尔说，“但如果情况变好了，他们还会回来。”
WHO BUYS IN VIENNA
谁在维也纳买房
Apart from Austrians, a majority of buyers in Vienna come from Eastern Europe or Germany, agents said. “We have about 60 percent Austrians and 40 percent foreigners, especially the high-end residential market, mainly from Eastern European countries like Russia and Ukraine,” Mr. Marschall said.  
除了奥地利人，维也纳的大部分买家来自东欧或德国，一些经纪人说。“我们有大约60%的奥地利买家，和大约40%的外国买家，尤其是在高端的住宅市场，买家主要来自一些东欧国家，比如俄罗斯和乌克兰。”马歇尔说。
Mr. de Gooreynd said buyers from Eastern Europe “see Vienna as a very safe environment. You can walk around the center of Vienna and no one knows who you are, no one cares who you are.”
德戈里恩德说，一些东欧买家“认为维也纳是个非常安全的地方。你可以在维也纳市中心散步，没有人会知道你是谁，也没有人关心你是谁。”
He added that recently his agency had seen “a lot of expat Austrians looking to get back into the market,  because they feel that Vienna is a safe investment.”
他补充说，最近，他的地产代理公司已经发现“有许多移居国外的奥地利人打算回来买房，因为他们觉得维亚纳是个非常安全的投资地。”
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
Buyers from European Union countries enjoy the same rights and privileges as Austrians when buying property, but those from other countries will need to obtain permission from the government. This is generally obtained without too much difficulty in Vienna, agents said, if the buyer is not planning to use the property purely as an investment.
来自欧盟国家的买家，购买房产时可以享受和奥地利人一样的待遇；但来自其他国家的买家们则需要获得政府批准。一些经纪人说，在维也纳，如果买家不是打算把房产用作纯粹投资用途的话，获得政府批准一般不太困难。
Agents said buyers should budget about 10 percent of the purchase price for fees and taxes. There is a real estate transfer tax of 3.5 percent and a registration fee of 1.1 percent. Unlike in many countries, the broker’s commission is usually divided in half, with buyers customarily paying about 3 percent. In addition, foreign buyers will need to retain the services of a lawyer and pay notary fees. Those costs together are about 2 percent to 3 percent of the purchase price, according to Knight Frank.
一些经纪人说，买家们应该预留购买价格的10%作为税费支出。另外还有3.5%的不动产转让税和1.1%的登记费用。同许多国家不一样的是，这里的经纪人佣金通常分为两部分，买家一般支付约3%。除此之外，外国买家还需聘请一位律师并支付公证费。据莱坊国际透露的消息，这些费用合计约占购买价格的2%至3%。
WEBSITES
网站
Vienna tourism: wien.info
维也纳旅游：wien.info
City of Vienna: wien.gv.at
维也纳市：wien.gv.at
Austria tourism: austria.info
奥地利旅游： austria.info
Kunsthistorisches Museum: khm.at
艺术历史博物馆：khm.at
Unesco World Heritage Site: whc.unesco.org/en/list/1033
联合国教科文组织世界遗产网站：whc.unesco.org/en/list/1033
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCIES
语言与货币
German; euro (1 euro = $1.13)
德语；欧元（1欧元=1.13美元，约合人民币6.7元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费
Building costs and taxes are about $430 (380 euros) a month.
建筑维护成本与税收约为每月430美元（380欧元，约合人民币2660元）。
CONTACT
联系方式
Michaela Orisich, Otto Immobilien, (43 1) 512 77 77-323, Otto.at
米凯拉·奥里西赫, 奥托房地产公司, (43 1) 512 77 77-323, Otto.at