PARIS — WikiLeaks published documents late Tuesday that it says show the U.S. National Security Agency eavesdropped on the last three French presidents, releasing material which appeared to capture officials in Paris talking candidly about Greece's economy, relations with Germany — and, ironically, American espionage.
巴黎——维基解密(WikiLeaks)称，其周二夜里公布的文件显示，美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）窃听了法国最近三位总统的谈话。在维基解密公布的材料中，被窃听的法国官员们似乎坦率地讨论了希腊经济、与德国的关系以及美国的间谍活动，而这颇具讽刺意味。
There was no instant confirmation of the accuracy of the documents released in collaboration with French daily newspaper Liberation and investigative website Mediapart, but WikiLeaks has a track record of publishing intelligence and diplomatic material and the release appeared serious enough to prompt an emergency meeting of President Francois Hollande's defense council, according to a presidential aide. The council, meeting Wednesday morning, includes France's top security officials.
目前尚无法立即证实维基解密与法国日报《解放报》(Liberation)及调查性网站Mediapart联合公开的相关文件的准确性，但维基解密有过诸多公布情报和外交材料的先例，而且据一名总统助理称，此次事件足够重大，已促使法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的国防委员会召开了一次紧急会议。该委员会于周三上午召开会议，其成员包括法国最高级别的几位安全官员。
WikiLeaks spokesman Kristinn Hrafnsson told The Associated Press he was confident the documents were authentic, noting that WikiLeaks' previous mass disclosures — including a large cache of Saudi diplomatic memos released last week — have proven to be accurate.
维基解密的发言人克里斯廷·赫拉夫恩孙(Kristinn Hrafnsson)对美联社(The Associated Press)表示，他相信相关文件真实可信，并指出维基解密之前披露的大量材料，包括上周公布的大批沙特外交备忘录，都已经被证明是准确的。
The timing of the release was not accidental: It came a day before the French Parliament is expected to definitively pass a controversial security bill legalizing broad surveillance, particularly of terrorism suspects.
此次公开相关文件的时机选择并非偶然：一天后，法国议会预计就会最终通过一项有争议的安全法案，使范围广泛的监视行动合法化，特别是针对恐怖主义嫌犯的监视。
Hollande's office did not comment on the reports other than to announce the security meeting.
奥朗德的办公室未对相关报道发表评论，只是宣布召开上述安全会议。
An aide to Hollande's predecessor Nicolas Sarkozy told the AP that the former president considers these methods unacceptable, generally speaking and especially from an ally. The aide was not authorized to be publicly named.
奥朗德的前任尼古拉·萨科奇(Nicolas Sarkozy)的一名助手对美联社表示，前总统萨科齐认为，总的来说这些做法令人难以接受，特别是从盟友的角度来看。这名助手并未透露其姓名。
There was no comment Tuesday from former President Jacques Chirac, also reportedly targeted by the eavesdropping.
据报道，前总统雅克·希拉克(Jacques Chirac)也是被偷听的对象。周二当天，希拉克未就此发表评论。
U.S. National Security Council spokesman Ned Price said in a statement that the American government would not comment on the specifics of the leak.
美国国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的发言人内德·普赖斯(Ned Price)在一则声明中表示，美国政府不会对泄露的具体细节发表评论。
"As a general matter, we do not conduct any foreign intelligence surveillance activities unless there is a specific and validated national security purpose. This applies to ordinary citizens and world leaders alike," he said.
“总而言之，我们不会对外国进行任何情报监视活动，除非是出于具体、经确认的国家安全目的。这一点对普通公民和世界领导人都一样，”他说。
Ever since documents leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden showed in 2013 that the NSA had been eavesdropping on the cellphone of Angela Merkel, it had been understood that the U.S. had been using the digital spying agency to intercept the conversations of allied politicians. The new revelations are bound to cause diplomatic embarrassment for the Americans, even though friends have been spying on friends for thousands of years.
自从2013年前NSA承包商雇员爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)泄露的文件显示，NSA一直在监听安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的手机以来，外界就认为，美国曾长期利用数字间谍手段窃听盟国政坛人物的谈话。尽管盟友之间的相互监视已有数千年历史，但新披露的情况肯定会让美国在外交领域感到尴尬。
Late on Tuesday, several French politicians posted messages to social media voicing their disgust with the reports.
周二夜间，法国几名政界人士在社交媒体上发帖，表示获悉相关报道后的厌恶之情。
"And one more time we find out that the U.S. has no allies, they only have targets or vassals," Socialist lawmaker Jean-Jacques Urvoas said in messages posted on Twitter in both French and English.
“我们再一次发现，美国没有盟友，他们只有目标或仆从，”社会主义党派议员让-雅克·于尔沃阿(Jean-Jacques Urvoas)在Twitter上分别用英语和法语发帖说。
Hollande said last year that he discussed his concerns about NSA surveillance with President Barack Obama during a visit to the U.S., and they patched up their differences.
奥朗德去年曾表示，他在访美期间同贝拉克·奥巴马总统讨论过对NSA的监视活动的担忧，双方就分歧达成了一致。
After the Merkel disclosures, Obama ordered a wholesale review of NSA spying on allies, after officials suggested that senior White House officials had not approved many operations that were largely on auto-pilot. After the review, American officials said Obama had ordered a halt to spying on the leaders of allied countries, if not their aides.
在对默克尔的监听被曝光后，官员表示，那主要属于自主开展的行动，很多都未得到白宫高级官员的批准。之后，奥巴马下令对NSA监视盟友的行动进行大规模检查。检查结束后，美国官员称，奥巴马叫停了针对盟国领导人的监视行动，但其助手可能不在豁免行列。
WikiLeaks, on its website, listed the contents of what it said were five selected "top" intercepts of communications involving French presidents — on subjects including a top U.N. appointment, the Middle East peace process, and the handling of the euro crisis — between 2006 and 2012.
维基解密在自己的网站上列出了相关内容，并称那是经过挑选后的“最高级别”的五个涉及法国总统的窃听个案。它们发生在2006年到2012年之间，话题包括联合国一名顶级官员的任命、中东和平进程以及对欧元危机的应对。
The site also listed in a chart what were said to be phone numbers listed by NSA as top French official "intercept targets," including that of the French president's own cellphone, with some digits crossed out.
该网站还在一幅图表中列出了包括法国总统自己的手机号在内的一些电话号码，但划去了部分数字。据称，NSA将这些号码列为首要的法官官方“窃听目标”。
Hrafnsson refused to comment on how WikiLeaks had obtained the documents and declined to go into specifics about what else might be appearing in the French press, but said that "they can expect more revelations in the near future."
赫拉夫恩孙拒绝透露维基解密是如何获得相关文件的，也不愿细说法国媒体可能还会爆出什么内容。但他表示，“它们近期可能会有更多爆料。”
Privacy advocates and human rights groups have protested the new French surveillance bill, which allows intelligence services to vacuum up metadata in hopes of preventing imminent attacks. But the government argues that it is just updating a 1991 law to grapple with modern threats and has tried to distance itself from U.S.-style mass surveillance.
隐私权利倡导人士和人权组织对法国新的监视法案表示不满。该法案允许情报机构大量收集元数据，以期阻止即将发生的袭击。但政府称，这只是对1991年的一项法律的更新，为的是应对最新威胁，并一直尝试与美国式的大规模监视活动保持距离。