LONDON — Time is running out for Swedish prosecutors investigating accusations of sexual assault against Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, who has been holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London since he walked into the building in 2012 and claimed asylum.
伦敦——对于负责调查针对维基解密(WikiLeaks)创始人朱利安 ·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)性侵指控的瑞典检察官来说，剩下的时间不多了。自2012年走进位于伦敦的厄瓜多尔驻英大使馆寻求庇护，阿桑奇就一直躲在那里。
Swedish officials said Wednesday that three of the four claims against him may never be investigated because the time Swedish law allows for them to do so is about to expire.
瑞典官员周三表示，在针对阿桑奇的四项指控中，有三项的调查可能不会再进行，因为依据瑞典法律，这些指控的追诉有效期即将终结。
It is the latest twist in a saga that has often seemed like a grueling diplomatic and legal war of attrition. But it is not the final chapter. The fourth and most serious allegation against Mr. Assange, of rape, can remain under investigation for a further five years, and after some fractious exchanges, Swedish and Ecuadorean diplomats have scheduled more talks to try to end the impasse.
这个看起来更像是磨人耐性的外交和法律消耗战的传奇故事又出现了最新的转折。但它还不是终结篇。针对阿桑奇的第四项、也是最严重的指控——强奸罪的追诉时效，还有五年。经历过几次不愉快交涉的瑞典和厄瓜多尔外交官员，已经安排了更多对话，以期扭转这一僵局。
British police officers remain on a 24-hour watch outside the Ecuadorean Embassy in the Knightsbridge district of London, unable to enter the building because of diplomatic protocol but ready to arrest Mr. Assange if he leaves.
英国警方仍然在位于伦敦骑士桥区的厄瓜多尔大使馆外进行24小时监控，尽管依外交惯例他们不能进大使馆，但只要阿桑奇走出这个建筑，他们就会马上逮捕他。
The police surveillance has already cost British taxpayers 9.2 million pounds from June 2012 to April 2015.
自2012年6月至2015年4月，这项监视工作已经花费英国纳税人920万英镑（约合9220万元人民币）。
No formal charges have been filed against Mr. Assange, who denies the allegations, originally made in 2010. But he has refused to go to Sweden to face an investigation because he says he fears he would then be extradited to the United States, where he could face a trial over the publication of leaked diplomatic cables on WikiLeaks.
目前阿桑奇并没有接到任何针对他的正式法律指控。此前他否认了最早在2010年对他提出的指控，但拒绝前往瑞典接受调查，因为担心自己在瑞典会被引渡到美国，在那里，他有可能因在维基解密网站公开泄露的外交电报而被审判。
Swedish officials say that there has been no extradition request from the United States and that his fears are “hypothetical.”
瑞典官员表示，美国不曾向瑞典提出引渡阿桑奇的要求，他的担心是一种“假想”。
In March, it appeared that a breakthrough was imminent when Marianne Ny, Sweden’s director of public prosecution, who had previously insisted that Mr. Assange be interviewed in Sweden, said prosecutors were prepared to travel to Britain to question him.
今年3月，这一状况一度看起来有望出现突破性进展。之前坚持要求阿桑奇到瑞典接受质询的瑞典总检察长玛丽安娜·尼(Marianne Ny)表示，瑞典检察官已经做好前往英国与阿桑奇谈话的准备。
Since then, Sweden and Ecuador have sparred over a legal agreement needed before questioning can take place. Though Sweden says it sent a prosecutor to London in June, the interview never happened, and each side has blamed the other.
之后，瑞典和厄瓜多尔就问话前需要达成的法律协议陷入争论。尽管瑞典表示他们在6月已经派一名检察官前往伦敦，但谈话并没有发生，两方开始为此相互指责。
Sweden’s Justice Ministry said that it could not accept, on legal grounds, a request by Ecuador to recognize its decision to grant Mr. Assange asylum, and so guarantee that Sweden would not eventually extradite him to the United States.
瑞典司法部表示，从法律层面讲，他们不能同意厄瓜多尔提出的要求，即肯定厄瓜多尔给予阿桑奇避难权的做法，并因此保证最终不会把他引渡到美国。
On Monday, the Ecuadorean Embassy in London issued a statement saying, “At no point has the Republic of Ecuador asked the Kingdom of Sweden to grant Mr. Assange asylum.”
周一，位于伦敦的厄瓜多尔大使馆发声明表示，“厄瓜多尔共和国不曾要求瑞典给予阿桑奇避难权。”
It also said, “On no occasion has any representative of the Kingdom of Sweden presented themselves at the embassy in relation to the Assange matter.”
它还表示，“不曾有任何来自瑞典王国的代表因涉及阿桑奇的事宜到访大使馆。”
Karin Rosander, director of communications for the Swedish prosecution authority, said that an assistant prosecutor, Ingrid Isgren, had traveled to London on June 16 and 17, ready to begin the questioning, but had not gone to the Ecuadorean Embassy because it was clear that the legal formalities had not been completed.
瑞典检方发言人卡琳·罗桑德(Karin Rosander)表示，该国的助理检察官英格丽德·伊斯格伦(Ingrid Isgren)曾于6月16日和17日前往伦敦，准备进行问话工作，但并没有去厄瓜多尔大使馆，因为相关法律手续显然没有完成。
But talks on a broader mutual assistance deal are scheduled to go ahead, said Cecilia Riddselius, a senior Justice Ministry official.
但司法部高级官员塞西莉亚·里德塞柳斯(Cecilia Riddselius)表示，就一项更广泛的互助协议进行的谈判有望取得进展。
On Thursday, the statute of limitations will expire on one allegation of sexual molestation and one of unlawful coercion, Ms. Rosander said. Next Tuesday, another allegation of sexual molestation will reach its expiration date.
罗桑德表示，针对阿桑奇的一项性骚扰指控和一项非法胁迫指控的诉讼时效将在周四终止。下周二，另外一项性骚扰指控的时效也将过期。
Ms. Riddselius said that in practical terms, it would be impossible to proceed given the time required for normal legal procedures. However, the allegation of rape could be pursued until August 2020. Under Swedish law, Mr. Assange could face up to four years in prison if convicted of the type of rape allegation made against him, the least serious in that category of offense.
里德塞柳斯表示，就实际情况而言，考虑到走正常法律程序需要时间，他们不可能赶在时效结束之前提起诉讼。但是，针对阿桑奇的强奸指控直到2020年8月之前都可以进行追查。依据瑞典法律，如果依据该指控中强奸类型定罪，阿桑奇可能会面临四年监禁，是此类罪行中量刑最轻的。
Per Samuelson, a lawyer for Mr. Assange, said that technically, it might still be possible for prosecutors to pursue all of the allegations, even those whose statutes of limitations are about to expire, if they were reclassified as investigations into more serious crimes.
阿桑奇的辩护律师佩尔·塞缪尔森(Per Samuelson)表示，从技术层面上讲，如果将指控升级，变成针对更严重犯罪行为的调查，瑞典检方就有可能对所有这些指控继续进行追查，包括那些诉讼时效即将终止的。
Mr. Samuelson called on Ms. Ny, the director of public prosecution, to drop the case entirely. “She has run this pre-investigation in such a bad manner that she must drop the whole case,” he said, criticizing Ms. Ny’s refusal, until March, to consider questioning Mr. Assange in London.
塞缪尔森要求瑞典总检察长尼撤销这个案子。“在这个案子的庭前调查上，她组织得太差，必须完全撤销指控，”他说道，并指责尼直到今年3月才开始考虑到伦敦对阿桑奇进行问话。
“You can’t blame Ecuador,” he said, adding that responsibility lay with “the prosecutor for having done nothing for five years.”
“你不能怪厄瓜多尔，”他说道，还表示责任在“检方，他们五年里什么也没干。”
Kristinn Hrafnsson, a spokesman for WikiLeaks, also called for all inquiries against Mr. Assange to be dropped. “It is simply obvious that there has been no real willingness to move this forward by the Swedish prosecutor,” he said.
维基解密的发言人克里斯廷·赫拉夫恩孙(Kristinn Hrafnsson)也呼吁撤销针对阿桑奇的所有指控。“很显然，瑞典检控部门一直没有推进此事的真正意愿。”
But Claes Borgstrom, a lawyer representing one of the complainants in the case, said he could see no reason to drop the rape investigation, adding that it was up to Mr. Assange to cooperate with the inquiry.
不过，代理此案一名原告的律师克拉斯·博格斯特姆 (Claes Borgstrom)表示，他认为没有理由撤销对强奸指控的调查，而且应由阿桑奇来配合调查。