VICHY, France — Perhaps this small city could be forgiven for thinking, 70 years after the end of World War II, that it might be thought of as something other than the capital of the collaborationist government of Marshal Philippe Pétain.
法国维希——这个小城希望人们不要再把它看作菲利普·贝当元帅(Marshal Philippe Pétain)傀儡政府的首都。二战结束已经70年，这种想法倒也无可厚非。
Vichy, situated in the Auvergne region in central France, has tried to draw interest for other pursuits, including Omnisports Parc, one of the largest and most comprehensive sporting centers in Europe. A French language center draws thousands of international students every year. And its casino, built during the reign of Napoleon III, has been transformed into a convention center.
维希坐落在法国中部的奥弗涅大区(Auvergne)，它试图用其他方面来吸引人们的兴趣。那里有欧洲最大和最全面的体育中心之一：多用体育园(Omnisports Parc)。还有一个法语语言中心，每年吸引数以千计的国际学生。而拿破仑三世统治时期建造的赌场，已被改造成一个会议中心。
On the final weekend of August, when 3,000 people from all over the world raced through the streets in the city's first Ironman Triathlon, it seemed like an auspicious moment.
今年8月的最后一个周末，来自全球各地的3000人冲过这里的街道，参加该城举办的第一届铁人三项赛，那似乎是一个欢庆的时刻。
Yet as much as Vichy desires to forge a vibrant future and honor its cosmopolitan past as a resort for European aristocrats and U.S. millionaires, ghosts of the war years linger. The triathlon's route, for instance, took the runners past the Hôtel du Parc, where Pétain's office has been carefully preserved by an organization dedicated to enshrining his memory.
但尽管维希渴望打造一个充满活力的未来，并强调自己过去是国际化都市，欧洲贵族和美国百万富翁曾经纷纷前来这里度假，但是战争年代的幽灵却挥之不去。比如，铁人三项赛的路线途经的公园酒店(Hôtel du Parc)里，贝当在那里的办公室受到了他的一个纪念组织的精心保护。
“For many years, Vichy has been trying to reinvent itself,” says Henri Diot, a retired history professor who lives here. “And, in the end, it may have to rely solely on itself.”
“多年来，维希一直在努力改造自己，”住在这里的退休历史学教授亨利·迪欧(Henri Diot)说。“终究，它或许只能靠自己。”
Philippe Gendre, Vichy's director of tourism, said in an email, “I often make a comparison to Berlin, which can accommodate gatherings on human rights without being thought of as the Third Reich.”
维希旅游部门的主管菲利普·让德尔(Philippe Gendre)在一封电邮中说，“我经常把维希与柏林做比较，人们在柏林召开人权集会时，也并不会联想到第三帝国。”
“Vichy is no longer a city,” he added. “It has become a symbol.”
“维希不再是一个城市，”他说。“它已经变成了一个象征。”
While the city of 25,000 may remain a symbol, it may no longer be a scapegoat. By the end of this month, the government will begin releasing online 200,000 wartime collaboration records, which have been held at the Police Museum in Paris and have been off limits for 75 years. By 2019, every name in those records will be available to the public. Thierry Wirth, a Vichy historian and author, said that would provide a true picture of France's “collective involvement.”
尽管这个2.5万人口的城市可能依旧是一种象征，但它可能不再是替罪羊了。本月底，政府将在网上公布20万份战时通敌档案，这些档案被封存在巴黎的警察博物馆(Police Museum)，过去75年里一直没有公开。到2019年，档案中的每一个名字都会对公众公开。维希的历史学者、作家蒂埃里·维尔特(Thierry Wirth)表示，这会让人们了解法国“集体参与”的真相。
“The Vichy regime was situated here, in the free zone, but the records clearly show that the greatest numbers of collaborationists were, in fact, in the occupied zone, including Paris,” Wirth said. “Moreover, the region in which we are situated, the Auvergne, had France's largest force of Resistance fighters, `Maquis du Mont Mouchet.”'
“维希政府设立在这里，处于自由地带，但档案显然说明，实际上包括巴黎在内的被占领区，通敌者最多，”维尔特说。“此外，我们所在的奥弗涅大区，拥有法国规模最大的抵抗部队穆谢山游击队(Maquis du Mont Mouchet)。”
In 2008, the city hosted a European Union conference organized by Brice Hortefeux, President Nicolas Sarkozy's minister of immigration and integration. Although 27 ministers and high-ranking representatives of the union attended, many in France were outraged by the choice of location.
该市在2008年主办了欧盟会议，会议由时任法国总统尼古拉·萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)设立的移民、融入、国民身份认同与共同发展部的部长布里斯·奥尔特弗(Brice Hortefeux)组织。虽然有27名部长及欧盟高层代表出席了该次会议，但是很多法国人对于选择在该市举办会议的做法感到愤怒。
Before World War II, that choice would most likely have been applauded. Vichy was an established settlement in Roman times, and by the 17th century, its waters were known for their curative powers. Napoleon III, believing that his rheumatism had been conquered there, commissioned the casino and the first grand hotels. One reason that the puppet government chose Vichy as its capital during World War II was its many hotels.
在二战之前，这种选择可能会受到称赞。维希在罗马时代就已经是一个定居点。到17世纪，这里的水因为能治病而著称。拿破仑三世认为，他的风湿病是在那里治好的，于是命人在那里建造赌场和第一批豪华酒店。法国傀儡政府在二战中选择这座城市作为它的首都，部分原因在于这里有很多酒店。
The many architectural styles that rise from its well-preserved boulevards and streets prompted The Guardian to once refer to it as “a melancholy fragmentation of Bournemouth, Brighton, Bath, Baden Baden and Brigadoon.”
保存完好的林荫大道和街道上，建筑风格各异。英国《卫报》(The Guardian)一度称这里“融合了伯恩茅斯、布莱顿、巴思、巴登-巴登和布里戈顿令人忧郁的元素”。
The city's longtime mayor, Claude Malhuret, a founder of Doctors Without Borders, seems, like many here, perplexed and slightly defensive over how to respond to the enduring stigma. “There are many stories about this city, and then there's the truth,” he said, “because that period was very complicated and has been incorrectly defining this city for too long.”
长期担任该市市长的克洛德·马吕勒(Claude Malhuret)是无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)的创始人之一。对于如何应对这种持久的恶名，他像这里的很多人一样，似乎感到困惑，展现出了一些防御的姿态。“关于这座城市的故事有很多，但都偏离了事实，”他说，“因为那个时期非常复杂，而且在很长时间里都错误地代表了这座城市。”
There is a popular walking tour of sites associated with the collaborationist government that came to power after the German invasion of France in 1940, and when asked if a museum might be established to encompass all of the city's history Malhuret responded: “Why? Nobody would go there.”
有一条广受欢迎的步行路线，可以参观与在1940年德国入侵法国后上台的傀儡政府有关的场所。当被问及是否可能设立一所展示该市所有历史的博物馆时，马吕勒回答道：“为什么要建呢？没人会去。”
The walking tour might include a visit with a resident, Lucien Guyot, 91, who was a member of the Resistance. Guyot said that anyone wondering why so many of his countrymen collaborated with the Nazi occupiers, some quite eagerly, should consider the broader canvas.
这趟徒步行程可能包括会见91岁的居民吕西安·居约(Lucien Guyot)，他是抵抗运动的成员。居约表示，如果有人不明白为何有那么多法国同胞与纳粹占领者勾结，而且其中一些人是相当急切地勾结，就应该考虑一下当时的大背景。
“The draconian Pétain government went far beyond the Germans' expectations, in particular with the deportation of `foreign' Jews, including children, to concentration camps, and they chased us down with a vengeance,” he said. “But it was the government's actions that were unforgivable, not this city's.”
“严酷的贝当政府远远超出了德国人的预期，特别是将包括儿童在内的‘外国’犹太人驱逐至集中营的行为，他们像寻仇似的追查我们，”他说。“但不可原谅的是政府的行为，而不是这座城市。”
Robert O. Paxton, an American historian who has written extensively on “les années noires” (the dark years), also takes issue with the city's vilification.
美国历史学家罗伯特·O·帕克斯顿(Robert O. Paxton)撰写了很多关于“黑暗时代”(les années noires)的文章，他也对这个城市遭到的中伤持异议。