Past the closed-circuit cameras, past the nondisclosure-agreement-wielding security guard, past the Damien Hirst pictures, past the hyperorganized assistant and the bold monochrome walls and the sumptuous gray sofas and the three giant orchids — past all the accouterments of the celebrity household — a toddler sat on the floor, playing with her nanny.
走过那些闭路电视摄像头，走过那些签了保密协议的保安，走过达米恩·赫斯特(Damien Hirst)的画作，再走过那些极度干练的助理，那些厚重的单色墙，那些奢华的灰色沙发和那三朵巨大的兰花——总之是走过一个明星家里的所有摆设——就会看到一个刚学走路的婴儿坐在地上，正在和她的保姆玩。
The toddler was plump and adorable, her hair in a little bun that just then was being decorated with a chain made of tiny flowers. The nanny, a minute, seemingly nondescript person in a careless ponytail, was doing the decorating. She looked up. “I’m sorry — I’ll be looking after her while we do this,” she said, a remark that prompted a moment of severe cognitive dissonance, because this was not the nanny at all, but Victoria Beckham herself, barefoot, T-shirted, skin glowing, so tiny as to appear to be in danger of dissolving into the furniture. She wore baggy, oversize boyfriend-y jeans suspended above her super-slim hips by little more than a casual canvas belt and a prayer, and she was surprisingly smiley.
婴儿胖乎乎的，很可爱，她的头发扎成了一个小圆发髻，此时此刻，有人正用小花做成的花链装点着那个发髻。不过等一下，在给婴儿打扮的就是那个看起来平平无奇、扎着一根随意的马尾辫的保姆。她抬头看了一眼。“不好意思——我们聊天的时候我要一边照看着她，”她这么一说，立刻带来一个与一般认识非常不协调的瞬间，因为这个人根本不是保姆，而是维多利亚·贝克汉姆(Victoria Beckham)本人。她光着脚，穿着T恤，皮肤容光焕发，身躯小得看起来快要被周围的家具所淹没。她穿着宽大的“男友式”牛仔裤，仅用一根帆布腰带固定在她那个超级苗条的髋部上，你会祈祷它不要掉下来。而她也出人意料地满面微笑。
“Harper and I went to the park this morning and picked daisies, but she didn’t quite understand that to make daisy chains you need to leave some of the stem on,” she explained, gesturing to the pile of teeny flowers on the floor. Harper, 2, is Beckham’s daughter, but of course we know that already. We know it just as we already know the names of Beckham’s three sons (Brooklyn, Romeo and Cruz), the name of her husband (David, who, tragically, was not at home), her Spice Girls handle (Posh Spice), and many other interesting Beckham-related facts, both important and trivial.
“今天早上，我和哈珀(Harper)去公园摘菊花去了，不过她不太明白，要做菊花环，你需要留一部分花茎，”她指着地上那堆小花解释说。两岁的哈珀是维多利亚的女儿，不过我们当然已经知道这个了，正如我们也已经知道维多利亚那三个儿子的名字（布鲁克林、罗密欧和克鲁兹），也知道她丈夫的名字（大卫当时不在家，真可惜），知道她在“辣妹”(Spice Girls)组合中的角色（“时髦辣妹”[Posh Spice]），还知道很多其他与贝克汉姆有关的事情，它们既很重要，又很微不足道。
Beckham seized fame by the collar in 1996, when the Spice Girls emerged to become, briefly, the biggest thing in girl bands since the Supremes; fame in turn grabbed her by the throat when she married David, then a dishy Manchester United midfielder with mercurial hair, boundless talent and a yen for the limelight. They were more than the sum of their parts; he, one of the world’s most famous soccer players, with a deadly free kick; she, the impossibly thin, impossibly high-heeled quintessential wife, followed everywhere, photographed everywhere, even her most banal utterances repeated and dissected.
维多利亚·贝克汉姆在1996年开始将名气握在手中，当时的辣妹组合短暂地冒起，成为自“至高无上合唱团”(The Supremes)以来名气最大的女子组合；然后在她与大卫结婚的时候，名声又反过来扼住了她的咽喉。那时的大卫·贝克汉姆是曼联的一名万人迷中场球员，发型多变，才华无量，而且热衷于站在聚光灯下。他们在一起的效应超过了两人各自加起来的总和；他是世界最著名的足球运动员之一，任意球极具杀伤力；她是穿着高跟鞋、苗条标致得不可方物的妻子，走到哪里就被跟到哪里，拍到哪里，哪怕她最平常的言语，都会被反复地分析玩味。
But in the last few years, a new kind of renown has been creeping up on Victoria Beckham, an unfamiliar phenomenon in a Kardashian world where people are famous for just being famous. This is the renown that comes from having a serious job and being seriously good at it. Five years after she shocked the blasé New York fashion world by unveiling a collection of beautifully made, elegant dresses that were chic and understated and ultraflattering, Beckham has established herself as a powerful force in the industry, proving again and again that she is far more than another celebrity slapping her name onto someone else’s product.
但在过去这几年，一种新的名声已经悄然笼罩在了维多利亚·贝克汉姆身上。在一个人们像名媛卡戴珊(Kardashian)一样因为出名而出名的世界里，这种名声是一个不常见的现象，它来自于有一份正经的工作并且真的做得不错。五年前她推出了一系列制作精美的优雅女装，别致、低调而又极尽讨好，震撼了已经浮躁到麻木的纽约时装界，之后维多利亚让自己成为了这个产业中一股强大的力量，一次又一次地证明，她远不只是又一个将自己的名字贴到别人产品上的明星。
She knows her product intimately — she often says she designs clothes that she herself fantasizes about wearing — and they reflect her tastes: nothing busy, very few prints, color used sparingly, lots of calm clean grays, creams, navys, blacks. Her first collection evoked the work of Roland Mouret, one of whose dresses she made famous when she wore it to David’s official introduction ceremony with the Los Angeles Galaxy, but she has gradually acquired a new boldness, the confidence to find her own style. Her current collection for fall is widely considered one of the standouts of the season, with masculine-influenced coats, long hemlines and skirts and trousers that skim the body rather than cling to it.
她对自己的作品了如指掌——她常常说她会设计一些幻想自己会穿的衣服——而它们反映出她的品味：毫不喧闹，很少印染，用色有节制，很多平静简洁的灰色、奶油色、海军色和黑色。她的第一个系列令人联想起了罗兰·穆雷(Roland Mouret)的作品，后者的其中一件作品就是被她捧红的，当时她穿着它，出席大卫在洛杉矶银河队的官方亮相仪式；而她也渐渐获得了一种胆识，有信心去找她自己的风格。她目前的秋季系列被广泛认为是这一季的突出作品之一，当中有带阳刚气的大衣，长裙和短裙，还有裤子，它们更多地是轻轻地裹着身体，而不是紧身。
Beckham’s ready-to-wear collection is still purposely small, but she is thinking big. She has branched out into sunglasses, handbags and denim. She has started a younger, less expensive line, Victoria, Victoria Beckham, which features clothes that are less tailored, more casual, more colorful. She has taken her brand global and is expanding most rapidly in the Asian markets, particularly China. Her company, based in Battersea, south London, already employs 90 workers, and is due to expand its office space soon. It recently started an e-commerce site, and there is talk of opening the first Victoria Beckham stand-alone store, in central London.
维多利亚的高级成衣系列仍然是有意识地做小，但她的想法却很宏大。她已经拓展到太阳眼镜、手提包和牛仔服饰。她开设了一个更年轻、价格稍低的品牌线，维多利亚·贝克汉姆之“维多利亚”(Victoria, Victoria Beckham)，出品那种不那么合体剪裁、更休闲、色彩更丰富的服饰。她已将她的品牌带向全球，其中在亚洲市场扩展得最快，特别是中国。她的公司位于伦敦南部的巴特西(Battersea)，目前雇用了90名员工，并且不久就将扩充办公室。最近它还开通了一个电子商务网站，还有传言说，伦敦中部将开设第一家维多利亚·贝克汉姆的独立经营品牌店。
Here she is at the center of all this, a tiny dynamo in skyscraper heels who gives off an aura of calm — how real it is is anyone’s guess — while everything spins around her. Her ambition is endless. “I want to reach as many women throughout the world as I can,” she said. “There are more categories that I want to enter into. I have five categories at the moment. But at some point I would love to do shoes, I would love to do fragrance, I would love to do makeup, I would like to do underwear. There are so many things I want to do.”
而这里，她就是这一切的中心，一个娇小却精力充沛的女子，穿着超高的高跟鞋，散发出一种淡定的气场——至于这到底有多真实，就见仁见智了——所有的一切都围着她转。她的野心无穷无尽。“我想要在全世界范围内将品牌带到尽可能多的女士那里，”她说，“我还有更多的类别领域想要踏足。目前我有五个类别，但到了某个时候，我想要做鞋，我想要做香水，我想要做化妆，我还想要做内衣。我想做的东西太多了。”
At the moment, though, it was time to eat lunch. (Yes, she eats, though on the other hand she spends a large chunk of time each day doing a Tracy Anderson workout with a personal trainer.) We moved to the table. On one wall was a huge collage-y Julian Schnabel; on another, a David Beckham original: a blown-up black-and-white photograph of the four children bouncing together on a bed. The house is a rental, and Beckham said she missed Los Angeles, where the family lived most recently — the climate, the openness, the work ethic. “I am very career minded, and I think my personality is more suited to America,” she said. “I am a working mum.”
不过现在，该是吃午饭的时间了（是的，她也吃饭，不过另一方面，她会每天花大量的时间跟一个私人教练做特蕾茜·安德森[Tracy Anderson]式的健身锻炼）。我们转到了餐桌上。一面墙上是一幅巨大的、拼贴式的朱里安·许纳贝(Julian Schnabel)作品；另一面墙上，是大卫·贝克汉姆的原创作品：一幅放大的黑白照，四个孩子一起在床上蹦跳的画面。房子是租的，而维多利亚说她想念洛杉矶，那是他们一家此前居住的地方——那里的气候，那里开放的氛围，那里的敬业精神。“我是非常注重事业的，我认为我的个性更适合美国，”她说，“我是一个要工作的母亲。”
She is also a perfectionist involved in every aspect of her company, from the smallest detail on a cuff, to the type of cushions on the spectators’ chairs at her fashion shows, to the largest strategic decision about where she wants the company to go, to a celebrity’s request to borrow a piece for a party (yes to the query from Naomi Watts, she said into the phone at one point during the afternoon). From the beginning, Beckham said, she realized that her work was “not just turning up on the red carpet wearing my dresses.” She has in the last few seasons begun doing proper runway shows, but wisely started out doing small presentations, making a point of introducing each collection personally, walking the buyers and editors and sales reps through every aspect of every piece, dazzling them with her command of her product. She frequently schedules in-store events in which she talks to customers trying on her clothes in the dressing room, advising them even as they advise her right back. “I’m involved in everything,” she said.
她也是一个完美主义者，会介入到公司每一个方面的事情当中，从袖口上一个最小的细节，到她的时装秀观众席座椅用哪一种坐垫，再到她想让公司往哪个方向走的重大决策，还有一个明星要借一件衣服去派对的请求（在这个下午，她就在电话中答应了来自娜奥米·沃茨[Naomi Watts]的请求）。维多利亚说，从一开始，她就意识到她的工作“不仅仅是穿着我的服装出现在红地毯上”。在过去几个时装季，她已经开始做一些名符其实的T台时装秀。但最开始的时候，她是很明智地先做一些小型的展示，通过亲自介绍每一个系列来表明自身价值。她向买家、时尚编辑和销售代表逐一介绍每一件作品的每一个元素，她对自己产品的认识震住了他们。她频繁地安排店内活动，当中她会和在试衣间试穿她衣服的顾客聊天，给她们建议的同时也会得到她们反馈的建议。“我参与到了每一件事情当中，”她说。
Lunch — corn soup followed by a salad of greens and fruit for Beckham; sushi for Beckham’s assistant and me; and a fruit platter for everyone — was prepared and served by a chef. “You are going to think this is real — this is what I get every day!” Beckham said. But it is not, apparently. “Chris” — that is the chef — “comes in a couple of days a week and might make a giant lasagna so I can put it in the freezer and then do it myself,” Beckham said. “David does the cooking.”
午餐由一位厨师做好奉上。维多利亚享用的是玉米浓汤，然后是蔬菜水果沙拉；她的助理和我吃的是寿司；还有每一个人都享用了果盘。“你会想这是真的——我每天就是这样吃饭的！”维多利亚说。但其实不是。“克里斯(Chris)”——就是那位厨师——“每周来两天，可能会做好一个巨大的意大利千层面，让我可以放进冰箱里，然后自己再加热，”维多利亚说，“通常是大卫负责做饭。”
David does the cooking? “Yes, he’s really good,” his wife said. When David was playing soccer in Italy a few years ago, she explained, the family was living in L.A., and he was left alone on his days off. “So he decided to go to culinary school.”
大卫负责做饭？“是，他做饭很好吃，”贝克汉姆的妻子说。她解释道，几年前，当大卫在意大利踢球的时候，家人还住在洛杉矶，而他在休息日的时候就只能一个人。“于是他决定去上烹饪课。”
She says he is a hands-on father, just as she is a hands-on mother. The nanny apparently works just a few days a week, too, and so Harper sat with us at lunch, trying on my shoes, wandering off with pieces of fruit, and at one point grabbing a piece of paper, covering it with Post-it notes and announcing that she was going to her office. If they can, either Victoria or David always drives the children to school — three boys, three different schools — and collects them. At least one of them, she said, is at every parents’ meeting, every play, every sports event.
她说，他是个很亲力亲为的父亲，就像她也是个亲力亲为的母亲一样。事实上，保姆一周也只工作那么几天，所以这一天哈珀是和我们坐在一起吃午饭的。她试着穿上了我的鞋，拿着几块水果走开了，某一刻还拿了一张纸，在上面贴上报事贴，宣称自己要去办公室了。只要情况允许，维多利亚或者大卫都会开车送孩子们上学——三个男孩，三所不同的学校——也都会去接他们。她说，每一次家长会，每一次话剧表演，每一场运动会，他们俩人至少都会有一人出席。
Beckham said that she has never missed a birthday, and that it is important to her to keep the children grounded and unspoiled. Both she and David come from close, hard-working families: David’s father was a gas-company engineer, and hers was an electrical wholesaler. She contrasted her attitude toward that of some of their friends in L.A.
维多利亚说，她从来没有一次错过孩子们的生日；而且不溺爱孩子，让孩子们脚踏实地，对她而言很重要。她和大卫都来自于关系亲密、工作勤劳的家庭：大卫的父亲是一名煤气公司的工程师，她的父亲则是一名电器批发商。她拿她的态度和他们在洛杉矶的一些朋友作对比。
“We have what I consider to be normal birthday parties,” she said. “I’ve been to parties in L.A. that are mind-blowing. I mean, quite literally mind-blowing. People get cellphones in the party bag, that sort of thing. Fabulous, fabulous parties. Ours aren’t like that. They are normal kids’ parties. We’ll have a bouncy castle, a face painter.”
“我觉得我们开的是一些普通的生日派对，”她说，“我在洛杉矶去过一些能把人头脑冲昏的派对。我的意思，真的挺冲昏头脑的。人们会在派对包里拿到手机那样的东西。非常非常绚丽的派对。我们的不是那样的，我们的是普通的小孩子的派对。我们会有充气城堡，有脸部彩绘师。”
After lunch, Beckham put Harper down for her nap, the nanny having materialized; sat for hair and makeup; and changed into her work outfit, all in black: slouchy Isabel Marant trousers, a skimpy sleeveless silk top, a Balenciaga leather jacket and a pair of towering leopard-print stilettos. The ordered taxi failed to show up, so an operative from the on-site Beckham security detail drove us to Beckham Ventures Ltd., where the various teams — the handbag group, the denim group, the financial group — all work in a big open-plan space, and where Beckham was due to have her photograph taken by Juergen Teller.
午饭后，维多利亚将哈珀放到床上让她午睡，保姆工作告一段落；她坐下来打理头发和化妆；然后换上全黑的工作装：一条伊莎贝尔·玛兰(Isabel Marant)的低腰裤，一件轻薄的无袖丝绸上装，一件巴黎世家(Balenciaga)皮夹克和一双让她傲然高耸的豹纹细高跟鞋。预约的出租车没有出现，于是现场贝克汉姆保安小分队里的一名成员就开车送我们到贝氏风投有限公司(Beckham Ventures Ltd.)。在那里，各个团队——手提包组、牛仔服组、财务组——全都在一个巨大敞开式布置的空间里工作。在这里，维多利亚要让尤尔根·泰勒(Juergen Teller)为她拍照。
Teller has shot Beckham before. He was responsible for the witty 2008 Marc Jacobs ads in which, among other things, she lay inside a shopping bag, with only her splayed legs visible — and she appreciates his no-fuss approach. “Normally in a fashion shoot you’d be plastered in makeup, in amazing clothes,” she said. “I find it embarrassing when you don’t look like yourself, when you’ve had tons of retouching.”
泰勒之前就曾拍过维多利亚。他在2008年负责拍摄了一组相当巧妙的马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)广告。在当中，她躺在一个购物袋里面，当中还有别的东西，只看得见她张开的双脚——而她很欣赏泰勒这种克制的处理。“通常在时装拍摄里，你会涂上厚厚的化妆，穿上令人惊艳的衣服，”她说，“我觉得当你被大量地修图润色，看起来都不像自己的时候，是很尴尬的。”
At the same time, Beckham is incredibly controlling of her image. Even in supposedly candid photographs, she is invariably shown posing as if she were on the red carpet: one leg in front of the other, body leaning back so that her hips jut forward and emphasize the slenderness of her form.
与此同时，维多利亚对于她自身形象的管理是超乎想像的。即使在那些本应是写实的照片里，她也毫不例外地摆出仿佛是站在红地毯上的姿势：一只脚在另一只脚的前面，身体稍后仰，以让她的腰髋向前，突出她体态的修长苗条。
She never smiles — it is almost as if someone once told her that she looks better scowling — and instead affects a mien of distant hauteur that can come across as snobbishness but in person reads more like shyness and insecurity.
她从不微笑——仿佛是有人曾跟她说她板着脸更好看一样——摆出一副拒人于千里之外的傲慢，让人觉得好像是一种势利，但亲眼所见时，却会更多地解读成羞怯和不安全感。
“I dunno,” she said, when asked about the no-smiling phenomenon. “I smile in family pictures.” Perhaps, she mused, the reputation she got for being moody during the Spice era stuck. Also, she said, “When you’re in a position to be paparazzi-ed just walking down the street, you’d look a little daft if you were smiling all the time.” (Apparently, the eternally sunny-seeming Kate Middleton never got that particular memo).
“我不知道，”在被问到这个说她从来不笑的现象时，她这么说道，“在家庭合照时我是笑的。”她打趣道，或许是她在辣妹时代遗落下来的喜怒无常的名声，一直延续了下来。而且，她说，“当你在街上走都会被狗仔队抓到的时候，如果你还无时无刻都在微笑，看起来就有点傻了。”（这么看来，永远阳光灿烂的凯特·米德尔顿[Kate Middleton]怕是没有得到过这条指示了）
She says she is relaxed about how she looks in pictures. “I don’t want to be made to look like I’m 25,” she said. “I’m 39. I don’t have any issues with my age.” That is what she said, at least. But she fretted a bit before the session, and as Teller prepared to take her picture she asked — jokingly, but not — that he go easy on her wrinkles (not that she has any noticeable ones).
她说她对于自己在照片里好不好看是不太在意的。“我不想被整得看起来好像我还是25岁似的，”她说，“我39岁了。我对于我的年龄没有任何困扰。”至少她是这么说的。但在拍摄环节之前，她有点焦虑，而且在泰勒准备给她拍照时，她既开玩笑又认真地要求他对她的皱纹手下留情（虽然她其实并没有什么看得出来的皱纹）。
For the shoot, Beckham reclined on her office floor, surrounded by fashion chaos: swatches of fabric, soda cans, sketches. She declined the suggestion to include a plate of grapes or some such in the picture. “We don’t want anyone to know I eat,” she said. “Why ruin that?”
在拍摄中，维多利亚躺在了办公室的地上，周围凌乱地堆着时装的元素：布料样品、汽水易拉罐、草图。她拒绝了在照片加进一盘葡萄或者类似东西的建议。“我们不想让任何人知道我会吃东西，”她说，“为什么要打破这一点呢？”
David, who spoke on the phone to his wife several times during the afternoon but, alas, never appeared in the flesh, is no slouch in the fashion department, either. “He might sometimes ask advice if he’s going to be late — ‘What should I wear?’ — but generally speaking, he has a really good sense of what works on him,” Beckham said. “I think he looks great whatever he does. He literally always looks really, really good.”
大卫在这个下午跟他妻子通了好几次电话，但可惜，他本人并没有露面。而他在时装领域也绝不是个懒散的人。“他有时候就算快迟到了也可能会问‘我应该穿什么呢’，不过通常来说，他对于自己穿什么好看是非常有判断力的，”维多利亚说，“我觉得不管他在做什么，他都很帅。他确实是任何时候都是非常非常好看。”
They work well together, she said, and then began talking without irony about the brand — the brand she and David have fashioned together, along with Simon Fuller, creator of “American Idol”— as if being part of a brand was the most normal thing in the world, as if that is simply what people do.
她说，他们在一起工作也很合拍。然后她开始说起这个品牌，语气丝毫不带调侃——这是一个她和大卫一起打造的品牌，还加上《美国偶像》(American Idol)的创作人西蒙·富勒(Simon Fuller)的合作——仿佛作为一个品牌的一员是世界上再平常不过的事情，仿佛这就是人人都在做的事情一样。
“You know, we don’t look at it as a big brand,” she said. “It is, but it happened very, very naturally. It seems that now everybody wants to make a brand; everybody wants to build a brand. Ours happened very organically.” And then she said: “The most important thing is each other and the children.”
“你知道吗，我们不把它看作一个大品牌，”她说，“它是个大品牌，但这是非常非常自然地发生的。现在似乎每个人都想做一个品牌；每个人都想建立一个品牌。而我们这个是非常自然而然地发生的。”然后她说：“我们最重要的是对方，还有孩子们。”
The Beckham brand is one thing; the Victoria Beckham brand is another. “I just wanted to create beautiful clothes, good quality clothes I wanted to wear myself,” she said. “And then I wanted to create handbags, because I couldn’t find the right handbag that I wanted to carry. Then I couldn’t find the right sunglasses, so I decided to make my own sunglasses.”
贝克汉姆的品牌是一回事；维多利亚·贝克汉姆的品牌又是另一回事。“我只想创造出我自己也想穿的漂亮的、高品质的衣服，”她说，“然后我想要创作手提包，因为我找不到我想要带着的合适的手提包。然后我也找不到合适的太阳眼镜，于是我就决定做自己的太阳眼镜。”
There is no stopping her. “I want to get bigger and bigger,” she said. “I absolutely want an empire.”
没有什么能阻挡她。“我想越做越大，”她说，“我绝对想把它做成一个王国。”