Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, said on Thursday that he would turn himself in to the British police if a United Nations panel rejects his petition asserting that the years he has spent in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London trying to avoid extradition to Sweden amount to illegal imprisonment.
周四，维基解密(WikiLeaks)创始人朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)表示，假如联合国的一个委员会驳回他的申诉，他就会向英国警方自首。他提出，自己为了避免被引渡到瑞典而在厄瓜多尔驻伦敦大使馆逗留多年，如同接受非法监禁。
A ruling from the panel, the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, is expected on Friday. “Should the U.N. announce tomorrow that I have lost my case against the United Kingdom and Sweden, I shall exit the embassy at noon on Friday to accept arrest by British police, as there is no meaningful prospect of further appeal,” Mr. Assange said in a statement that WikiLeaks posted to Twitter on Thursday morning.
该委员会名为任意拘留问题工作组(Working Group on Abitrary Detention)，计划于周五作出裁决。“如果明天联合国宣布我对英国和瑞典提起的申诉失败，我将会于周五中午离开大使馆，并接受英国警方逮捕，因为再上诉已无任何真正的希望，”阿桑奇在维基解密周四上午发表在Twitter上的声明中说。
“However, should I prevail and the state parties be found to have acted unlawfully, I expect the immediate return of my passport and the termination of further attempts to arrest me,” he concluded.
“不过，如果裁决对我有利，调查发现当事国行为违法，我期望我的护照能被即时归还，而逮捕我的进一步企图亦应立即终止，”他在文末表示。
It was not clear whether Mr. Assange’s action was anything more than, in effect, a publicity stunt. Although the London police stopped a 24-hour surveillance of the embassy on Oct. 12, citing the cost of the operation, its position has not changed.
目前尚不清楚，除了宣传噱头以外，阿桑奇的声明实际上还有没有别的作用。虽然伦敦警方在去年10月12日停止了对大使馆的24小时监控，理由是成本过高，但它的立场并没有改变。
“Should he leave the embassy the M.P.S. will make every effort to arrest him,” the Metropolitan Police Service, also known as Scotland Yard, said on Thursday. The BBC, without citing sources, reported on Thursday that the panel was set to rule in Mr. Assange’s favor, but Cécile Pouilly, a spokeswoman for the high commissioner for human rights, said only that the decision would be released at 11 a.m. in Geneva on Friday.
“如果他离开了大使馆，伦敦警察厅(Matropolitan Police Service)将用尽一切努力逮捕他，”又名苏格兰场(Scotland Yard)的伦敦警察厅于周四回应。当天，英国广播公司(BBC)报道，工作组已预定会做出对阿桑奇有利的裁决，但没有透露消息来源。不过，联合国人权事务高级专员办事处发言人塞西尔·普伊(Cécile Pouilly)仅表示，裁决将于周五上午11点在日内瓦公布。
The British government said in a statementit would “not pre-empt any opinions” by the working group, but added: “We have been consistently clear that Mr Assange has never been arbitrarily detained by the U.K. but is, in fact, voluntarily avoiding lawful arrest by choosing to remain in the Ecuadorean Embassy. An allegation of rape is still outstanding and a European arrest warrant in place, so the U.K. continues to have a legal obligation to extradite Mr. Assange to Sweden.”
英国政府发表声明称，他们不会对工作组“有任何先入为主的意见”，但也强调：“我们一向明确表示，阿桑奇从未受到英国政府任意拘留，而是，在事实上，为了避免受到合法逮捕而自愿选择留在厄瓜多尔大使馆内。对他的强奸指控和欧洲逮捕令依然有效，因此英国仍有法律义务引渡阿桑奇到瑞典。”
The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention — established in 1991, and now under the auspices of the Office of the United Nations High Commisssioner for Human Rights, based in Geneva — is the only nontreaty-based United Nations body that directly accepts petitions from individuals. Although its findings often carry symbolic weight, they are not binding under international law.
任意拘留问题工作组在1991年成立，现在为总部设于日内瓦的联合国人权事务高级专员办事处辖下，是唯一一个并非基于条约而接受个人申诉的联合国机构。虽然其调查结果往往会带来象征性的影响，但并不具备国际法效力。
Per Samuelson, a lawyer representing Mr. Assange, said on Thursday that if the United Nations panel ruled in his client’s favor, the decision would rest with the Swedish, rather than the British, authorities.
阿桑奇的律师佩尔·塞缪尔森(Per Samuelson)在周四表示，倘若联合国工作组做出对他的委托人有利的裁决，要做出决定的将是瑞典当局，而不是英国当局。
“It is not legally binding, but I would take it for granted that Sweden would follow it,” Mr. Samuelson said. “To go against a decision would be to go against a unit of the United Nations, and their own interpretation of human rights. In that case, it would be for the Swedish prosecutor to cancel the decision and withdraw the European arrest warrant.”
“这项裁决没有法律约束力，但我理所当然的认为瑞典会予以遵循，”塞缪尔森说。“反对裁决就等同于和一个联合国部门及其对人权的诠释作对。在这种情况下，瑞典检察部门应撤销其决定，收回欧洲逮捕令。”
After the working group gets a complaint, it offers the government — in this case, Britain — a chance to challenge the allegations within 90 days, and the complainant is then offered the chance to respond.
工作组收到申诉后，会给涉事政府——这次是英国政府——90日的期限来对指控提出异议，然后投诉人有权对异议予以回应。
The working group then rules on whether the case involves “arbitrary deprivation of liberty,” a category that includes arbitrary arrest, detention or exile.
接下来，工作组判定案件是否涉及“任意剥夺自由”，包括任意逮捕、拘禁或流放。
Mr. Assange, who gained notoriety for publishing hundreds of thousands of confidential, politically sensitive leaked documents on WikiLeaks, including more than a quarter of a million American diplomatic cables, faces an accusation of rape in Sweden, which has requested that he be extradited there to face questioning. No formal charges have been filed against him.
阿桑奇在维基解密上了发布了数十万份政治敏感的机密外泄文件，因此留下恶名。外泄文件中，包括逾25万份美国外交电报。他在瑞典面临着强奸指控，该国要求将他引渡问话。他并没有被正式起诉。
Mr. Assange has strongly denied the rape allegations, which were made in 2010, and has refused to comply with the extradition order, saying he fears that once in Swedish or British custody, he could be sent to the United States to face prosecution for publishing classified material.
阿桑奇一直坚决否认在2010年的这项强奸指控，并拒绝遵守引渡令。他的理由是，担心瑞典或英国羁押他后，自己可能会被送到美国以出版机密资料的罪名遭到起诉。
Mr. Assange, an Australian citizen who fled to the Ecuadorean Embassy in London in June 2012, was granted asylum by Ecuador in August of that year, as the extradition order prevents him from traveling. Diplomatic protocol, meanwhile, has kept the British police from arresting him.
由于引渡令阻止他外出旅行，身为澳大利亚公民的阿桑奇在2012年6月逃往厄瓜多尔驻伦敦大使馆，并在当年8月获得厄瓜多尔庇护。与此同时，外交惯例令英国警方不能逮捕他。
In his petition to the United Nations working group — which was prepared by a team of lawyers including the Spanish jurist Baltasar Garzón, famous for his advocacy on behalf of victims of torture in Latin America — Mr. Assange and his legal team described life in the embassy as claustrophobic, with no access to fresh air, sunlight or adequate medical care.
在他给联合国工作组的申诉书中，阿桑奇和他的法律团队描述，他在使馆的生活颇为幽闭，没有新鲜空气、阳光和适当的医疗照顾。阿桑奇的申诉书由律师团队编写，当中包括因为为拉丁美洲的酷刑受害者辩护而成名的西班牙法学家巴尔塔萨·加尔松(Baltasar Garzón)。
“He is subjected to a continuous and pervasive form of round the clock surveillance, and he resides in a constant state of legal and procedural insecurity,” his lawyers wrote. The British police kept a 24-hour watch outside the embassy for several years, but ended the arrangement in October after having spent more than $17 million.
“他受到连续而彻底的全天监控，他深陷法律和程序上的不安全状态，”他的律师团队写道。在几年时间里，英国警方在使馆外保持了24小时不间断执勤，但在花了逾1700万美元之后，于去年10月终止了这一做法。
Mr. Assange’s appeal also cited the prosecution and imprisonment of Chelsea Manning, a former United States Army soldier and major source for WikiLeaks, and who was sentenced to 35 years in prison, as an example of his “likely fate” should he be extradited to the United States.
阿桑奇的申诉书中还援引了切尔西·曼宁(Chelsea Manning)遭遇的起诉和监禁，并以此作例，指出他如果被引渡到美国“很可能会面临的命运”。曼宁曾在美国陆军服役，是维基解密的主要来源，被判处了35年徒刑。
Ms. Manning leaked hundreds of thousands of sensitive documents to WikiLeaks in 2010. Some of those documents, including American diplomatic cables, were published that year in redacted form by a select group of news organizations, including The New York Times.
2010年，曼宁向维基解密泄露了数十万份敏感文件。其中一些文件，包括美国外交电报在内，在当年由选定的几家新闻机构以节录的方式发表，《纽约时报》位列其中。