LONDON — Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, who was given asylum in the Ecuadorean Embassy here two years ago, said Monday that he “will be leaving the embassy soon,” but he provided no specifics.
伦敦——两年前接受厄瓜多尔驻伦敦大使馆政治庇护的维基解密(WikiLeaks)创始人朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)周一表示，他“将很快离开大使馆”，但并未提供具体信息。
In a long and meandering news conference at which he was accompanied by the Ecuadorean foreign minister, Ricardo Patiño, Mr. Assange summarized his case, insisting that he had helped bring about needed change in the British extradition system and saying that his health was suffering after two years at the embassy.
在厄瓜多尔外交部长里卡多·巴蒂诺(Ricardo Patiño)的陪同下，阿桑奇召开了一个漫长的新闻发布会，其中有些谈话看似不着边际。他在会上对自己的案件进行了总结，并坚称自己帮助英国引渡系统做出了亟需的改变，还说在大使馆待了两年之后，他的健康状况不佳。
Mr. Assange faces extradition to Sweden, which is investigating allegations of sexual misconduct, and the British police continue to post a 24-hour guard at the embassy at a total cost thus far of at least $10 million. Mr. Assange says that he has not been charged with any crime and that he fears that if he leaves the embassy, he will be extradited to the United States. Investigations continue there into the disclosure of classified material to WikiLeaks, which posted material on its website and arranged for news organizations, including The New York Times, to publish some of it.
阿桑奇面临着被引渡到瑞典的命运。现在，瑞典正在对阿桑奇的性骚扰指控进行调查。英国警方仍在派人对大使馆进行24小时守卫，目前总支出至少已达1000万美元（约合人民币6143万元）。阿桑奇说，他并未受到任何犯罪指控，但他担心自己在离开大使馆后，会被引渡到美国。美国仍然在对向维基解密泄漏机密材料一事进行调查。维基解密在自己的网站上发布了一些材料，还安排《纽约时报》等新闻机构发表了其中的部分内容。
The United States has not sought Mr. Assange’s extradition, and there has been no public indictment of him.
美国尚未要求引渡阿桑奇，也没有对他提起公诉。
The British news media, especially Sky News, reported before the news conference that Mr. Assange would announce that he was leaving the embassy to seek medical treatment. Quoting a WikiLeaks source, news reports said that he had conditions including arrhythmia, very high blood pressure and a chronic lung problem. On Monday, Mr. Assange said that he had decided to leave “soon, but perhaps not for the reasons that the Murdoch press are saying at the moment.” He did not elaborate.
英国新闻媒体，尤其是天空新闻(Sky News)在新闻发布会前报道称，阿桑奇将宣布，他为了治病会离开大使馆。新闻报道援引一名维基解密知情人士的话说，阿桑奇患有心律不齐、严重的高血压和慢性肺病。周一，阿桑奇说他决定“会很快离开，但是或许不是出于默多克(Murdoch)的新闻媒体现在所说的原因”。他并未对此进行详细解释。
Mr. Patiño said that Ecuador supported Mr. Assange and would continue to seek a negotiated legal end to the standoff. He described “two years of great uncertainty and lack of legal protection for everyone,” and added: “The situation must come to an end. Two years have been definitely too long. It is time to free Julian Assange. It is time for his human rights to be respected.”
巴蒂诺称，厄瓜多尔支持阿桑奇，而且会继续通过协商，寻求一种合法方式来打破这种僵局。他说，“两年来，这里存在极大的不确定性，而且每个人都缺乏法律保护。”他还说：“我们必须结束这种局面。两年的确太长，现在到了让朱利安·阿桑奇重获自由的时候，也到了尊重他的人权的时候。”
Kristinn Hrafnsson, a spokesman for WikiLeaks, said that Mr. Assange would leave if Britain promised him safe passage but that he had no plans to turn himself in.
维基解密的女发言人克里斯廷·赫拉夫恩孙(Kristinn Hrafnsson)说，如果英国能保证他的安全通行，阿桑奇就会离开，但是他没有自首的打算。
In June, Mr. Assange’s lawyers petitioned a Swedish court to repeal a 2010 order to have him detained in Sweden, arguing that it could not be enforced while he was at the embassy and that it was restricting Mr. Assange’s civil rights.
6月，阿桑奇的律师请求一家瑞典法院撤销2010年在瑞典对他实施拘留的命令；理由是，他当时在大使馆，这个命令根本无法实施，而且它还限制了阿桑奇的公民权。
Mr. Assange has not been formally indicted in Sweden, but he is wanted for questioning there over allegations of sexual misconduct involving two women he met during a visit to the country in 2010. He denies the allegations.
瑞典并未正式对阿桑奇提出控告，但是由于有人指控阿桑奇2010年在瑞典期间曾对两名女性进行性犯罪，所以瑞典希望能就此对他展开质询。阿桑奇否认了这些指控。