NEW HAVEN, Conn. — Every tourist who visits Iran has three common observations: The women are stunning, the traffic is maddening, and, after oil, humor is the major industry.
康涅狄格州纽黑文——每一个去过伊朗的游客都会得出三个普遍感受：女人美极了，堵车太疯狂，还有，幽默是除石油之外另一个主要产业。
On the streets and in taxicabs, political jokes abound. No one, especially the leadership, is spared, and no perspective is more telling or reliable than the anonymous satirist’s. A popular joke during the last presidential election invited Syrians also to vote: “After all, our president will be your finance minister, too!”
大街上，出租车里，到处是政治笑话。没人能幸免，尤其是领袖人物，匿名的讽刺段子写手提供的视角，才是最说明问题或者最可靠的。上一次总统大选期间曾流行一个笑话，邀请叙利亚人也参加投票：“毕竟我们的总统将是你们的财政部长！”
Even Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, whose dour and scowling face is what many associate with the Islamic Revolution, was said to be a connoisseur of satire. In a recent interview with the website Jamaran, one of Ayatollah Khomeini’s close confidants, Mahmoud Doayee, revealed that the leader demanded to hear the jokes about him, even laughing heartily at times. To him, they were the sociocultural weather vane of all that needed “correcting,” which at times meant “eliminating.”
据说连阿亚图拉鲁霍拉·霍梅尼(Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini)都是讽刺笑话的鉴赏家，他的那张阴沉、威怒的面孔在很多人心目中就是伊斯兰革命的代名词。在近日接受网站“贾马兰”(Jamaran)的采访时，阿亚图拉霍梅尼的亲信马哈穆德·多阿伊(Mahmoud Doayee)透露，这位领袖要求把关于他的笑话讲给他听，偶尔还会开怀大笑。在他看来，这些笑话就是所有需要“纠正”的社会文化的风向标，这种纠正有时指的就是“消灭”。
Long before there was a fatwa against the British novelist Salman Rushdie, there was an official death threat against Iran’s best-known satirist, Hadi Khorsandi, who had allegedly insulted Muhammad. Mr. Khorsandi, who fled Iran in 1980 and resettled in Britain, told of the day the police in London called to warn of a plot against him: “Their best advice was to never be on time for any appointments! I laughed and said, ‘A half-hour delay is in the makeup of the Iranian character.’ The detective sighed and said, ‘Then God help you, because your killers are Iranian, too!”’
早在对英国小说家萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)发布追杀令以前，伊朗最著名的讽刺作家哈迪·霍尔桑迪(Hadi Khorsandi)就收到过一次官方发布的死亡威胁，他被指责曾侮辱穆罕默德。霍尔桑迪在1980年逃离伊朗，后定居英国，他曾提到有一次伦敦警方给他电话，警告说有人在密谋加害他：“他们给出的最佳建议是，任何约会都不要准时到场！我笑了，说，‘迟到半个钟头是每个伊朗人生下来就有的特点。’那位警探叹了口气，说，‘那只能听天由命了，杀手也是伊朗人！’”
As early as the mid-1970s, the ayatollah began to methodically undermine the regime of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi by following the advice of the philosopher Jean Paul, who said, “Freedom begets wit, and wit begets freedom.” He first set out to weaken the shah with words before actually driving him from the palace in January 1979.
早在20世纪70年代中期，阿亚图拉就已经开始遵循哲学家让·保罗(Jean Paul)的建议，在暗中按部就班地破坏国王穆罕默德·礼萨·巴列维(Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi)的政权，保罗说：“自由引来风趣，风趣引来自由。”在1979年1月将国王逐出王宫之前，他曾先使用言语去削弱国王。
The shah had been the muse of the poets, but his impeccable wardrobe and fine manners provided little material for the satirists. Irreverence was the ayatollah’s main weapon in his war against elitism.
当时的伊朗国王是诗人们的缪斯，但他不可挑剔的穿着和优雅的举止让讽刺作家无机可乘。在和权贵阶层的对抗中，不敬成了阿亚图拉的主要武器。
Ayatollah Khomeini never referred to the shah by his royal titles, addressing him by his first name, or worse yet, as “little man.” Soon, the nation ceased to call the shah “the king of kings,” or “the shadow of God on earth.” In revolutionary slogans, the shah was reduced to “Mohammed the nose,” a reference that shattered the sanctity of the royal family.
阿亚图拉霍梅尼从来不用国王的尊称，提到他只说他的名字，或者更糟，叫他“小家伙”。很快全国都不再管国王叫“众王之王”，或“神在世间的影子”。在革命口号里，国王已经降级成了“大鼻子穆罕默德”，用这种说法来粉碎王室的神圣形象。
The monarchy had symbolized civility and beauty, but the new theocratic order embraced all that was drab as a way to honor the masses. The ayatollah banned music and chess and relegated contemporary art to storage. He stated the same trite ideas so many times that he inspired a new genre of jokes — lampooning the obvious passed off as pearls of wisdom — that found its way into Iran’s graffiti: “A minibus is smaller than a bus! — Ayatollah Khomeini.”
王室曾是礼貌和美的象征，但新的神权体制弘扬一切单调的东西，以此来表示对民众的尊敬。阿亚图拉封禁了音乐和象棋，把当代艺术扔到仓库里去。他反反复复地宣讲着同一套陈腐的道理，以至于在伊朗的街头涂鸦里催生了一种新的笑话类型——把一些显而易见的事讥讽地说成金玉良言：“小巴比大巴小！——阿亚图拉霍梅尼。”
While, at one time, the shah had placed himself a class above the rest and was deemed “the other,” the clerics remain in power in part because they are deemed the nation’s “errant children,” whom, as a visiting friend once said to me, “one can’t disown.” The common touch of the revolutionary regime, its ability to appear good-humored and down to earth, is one secret of its survival.
然而，曾几何时，国王是以高人一等的身份自居的，被认为是“他者”，而宗教领袖之所以仍然掌握权力，一定程度上是因为他们被认为是国家的“不羁之子”，一位来访的友人曾对我说，“总不能不认”这些孩子吧。革命政权的平易近人之处，即将自己塑造成风趣而朴实的样子，是它的一个生存诀窍。
Former President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a lifelong Shiite seminarian, has been ranked among the richest people in Iran. Yet Iranians’ reaction to his mysteriously amassed wealth is only occasionally one of outrage. Instead, they joke about Mr. Rafsanjani’s hairlessness, a sign of femininity, calling him “the shark” — by way of alluding to his sleek pate. Had he not punctuated every speech and interview with an anecdote or a joke, as well as wearing a robe and turban, it is unlikely that Iranians would have been so tolerant.
毕生修习什叶派神学的前总统阿里·阿克巴尔·哈什米·拉夫桑贾尼(Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani)是伊朗最富有的人之一。然而对他这笔来历不明的财富，伊朗人只是偶尔会有愤怒的反应。他们倒是会拿拉夫桑贾尼的谢顶开玩笑，因为缺少毛发被认为是一种女性化的表现，他们管他叫“鲨鱼”，拐弯抹角地说他那光溜溜的脑袋。要不是每次演说和采访都会在里面点缀一段轶事或笑话，还有穿长袍、包头巾，伊朗人不太可能对他这么宽容。
Other leaders, to prove and maintain “revolutionary” credentials, have acted like fools publicly. In 1980, Iran’s representative at the United Nations took his sock and shoe off during a speech to the assembly. And former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s declaration that a 16-year-old girl had invented the atomic bomb in her basement inspired this line: “The plan to issue a stamp to honor Ahmadinejad has been canceled because no one knows which side of the stamp to spit on!”
还有一些领袖为了证明并维持自己的“革命”资格，在公开场合做出一些傻乎乎的事情。1980年，伊朗驻联合国代表在大会上发言时把鞋和袜子脱了下来。前总统马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪-内贾德总统(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)宣称有一个16岁姑娘在自家地下室里发明了原子弹，从而激发了这么一段话：“发行艾哈迈迪-内贾德纪念邮票的计划被取消了，因为没人知道该往邮票的哪一面吐唾沫！”
When asking why Iranians tolerate a regime more brutal than the one they overthrew in 1979, humor may explain a great deal. Tyrants need to dress, behave and speak in tyrannical ways to inspire a rebellion. It’s possible to feel heroic when opposing an evil regime headed by a self-serious monarch, but not so easy to do so when confronted by one run by a band of clowns.
如果你去问伊朗人，为什么要纵容一个比1979年被他们推翻的那个政权还要残暴的政权，可能幽默是一个相当重要的原因。暴君需要有暴君的穿着、举止和谈吐，从而激发反叛。如果一个邪恶的政权是由一个一本正经的君王领导，那么去反抗它就有可能产生壮烈的感觉，可如果是一帮小丑在领导，就不太容易了。