Does vitamin E help people with Alzheimer’s disease? For years, scientists have been trying to find out, guessing that the vitamin’s antioxidant properties might be beneficial. But the results from clinical trials have been mixed and — following a report that high doses of vitamin E may increase the risk of death — cautionary.
维生素E对阿尔茨海默氏症患者有帮助吗？多年以来，科学家一直在设法寻找答案，他们推测，这种维生素的抗氧化性也许会让患者受益。然而，临床试验的结果一直复杂而令人警惕，因为有一份报告表明，高剂量的维生素E可能会增加死亡风险。
Now a study suggests that vitamin E supplements may be good for some Alzheimer’s patients after all. The benefit was not huge, but for a devastating disease that has proved almost impervious to treatment, it was notable.
现在，一项研究表明，对部分阿尔茨海默氏症患者来说，维生素E补品也许终归是有利无害的。这种益处并不大，但对一种事实证明几乎无法治愈的灾难性疾病而言，它还是值得关注的。
The study, published in Wednesday’s issue of JAMA, The Journal of the American Medical Association, found that over a little more than two years, high-dose vitamin E slowed the decline of people with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s by about six months on average.
这项研究刊发于本周三出版的《美国医学会杂志》(The Journal of the American Medical Association，简称JAMA)。该研究发现，在两年多一点的时间里，高剂量的维生素E把轻度到中度阿尔茨海默氏症患者的脑力衰退进程平均推迟了大约六个月。
Vitamin E did not delay cognitive or memory deterioration, however. Instead, it seemed to temporarily protect something many patients consider especially valuable: their ability to perform daily activities like putting on clothes and feeding themselves.
不过，维生素E没有推迟患者在认知和记忆上的退化。相反，它似乎暂时保护了让许多患者格外珍视的能力，也就是穿衣进食等日常生活能力。
Compared with other study participants, people who took vitamin E also required about two fewer hours of help from caregivers per day, the researchers said.
研究人员表示，和研究中的其他参与者相比，服用维生素E的患者每天需要护理人员照料的时间要少两个小时左右。
“Is it really going to dramatically alter the lives of Alzheimer’s patients? That’s unclear,” said Dr. Scott Small, director of Columbia University’s Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center, who was not involved in the study. “But it might improve patients’ ability to bathe themselves and dress themselves.”
“它真的会极大地改变阿尔茨海默氏症患者的生活吗？这一点还不清楚，”参与研究的哥伦比亚大学老年痴呆症研究中心(Columbia University’s Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center)主任斯科特·斯莫尔(Scott Small)博士说。“不过，它或许可以提高患者自己洗澡穿衣的能力。”
Notably, in this study, high-dose vitamin E appeared safe. Many doctors had stopped suggesting it to Alzheimer’s patients after a 2005 analysis suggested that high doses could increase the risk of mortality. That analysis looked at vitamin E’s effect on patients with various diseases, not just Alzheimer’s.
值得注意的是，在这项研究中，服用高剂量的维生素E似乎是安全的。2005年的一项分析表明，服用高剂量维生素E可能会增加死亡风险，在此之后，很多医生已经停止建议阿尔茨海默氏症患者服用维生素E。那项分析研究了维生素E对各种疾病患者的效果，不只是阿尔茨海默氏症患者。
“We were concerned about safety, and we didn’t find a safety problem,” said Dr. Maurice Dysken, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Minnesota, who led the new study.
支持这项新研究的明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)精神病学教授莫里斯·迪斯肯(Maurice Dysken)博士说，“我们考虑到了安全性，但我们没有发现安全问题。”
Still, experts, including the authors, said the new study did not mean that high-dose vitamin E should be taken by everyone with dementia or everyone hoping to prevent it. The study found benefit only in people with mild to moderate Alzheimer’s, a result that echoes research in 1997 showing that vitamin E could delay functional decline for about seven months in people with moderately severe Alzheimer’s.
然而，包括研究报告作者在内的一些专家表示，新研究并不意味着每个患有痴呆症或希望预防痴呆症的人都应该服用高剂量维生素E。研究发现高剂量维生素E只对轻度到中度的阿尔茨海默氏症患者有效，这个结果与1997年的研究结果一致，当时的研究表明，维生素E可以让中重度阿尔茨海默氏症患者的机能减退进程延缓大约7个月。
But other studies have found that vitamin E failed to delay dementia in people without symptoms or with mild cognitive impairment, which may precede Alzheimer’s.
但是，在其他一些研究当中，维生素E没能帮助那些没有症状或仅呈现轻度认知障碍的人延缓痴呆，轻度认知障碍可以是阿尔茨海默症的前兆。