In 1602, a Spanish fleet was sailing up the Pacific coast of Mexico when the crew became deathly ill. “The first symptom is pain in the whole body that makes it sensitive to touch,” wrote Antonio de la Ascensión, a priest on the expedition. “Purple spots begin to cover the body, especially from the waist down; then the gums become so swollen that the teeth cannot be brought together, and they can only drink, and finally they die all of a sudden, while talking.”
1602年，在一个正沿着墨西哥的太平洋岸线航行的西班牙船队中，船员们接二连三地患上了不治之症。“首先出现的症状是全身疼痛，这使得病人对普通的触摸也十分敏感，”探险队的神父安东尼奥·德拉·阿森西翁(Antonio de la Ascensión)写道：“紫色的斑点开始遍布病人全身，在腰部以下尤其严重；然后，病人出现牙龈肿胀，以致牙齿无法咬合，只能进食流质；最后，病人们常常正说着话就突然死亡了。”
The crew was suffering from scurvy, a disease that was then both bitterly familiar and deeply mysterious. No one knew why it struck sailors or how to cure it. But on that 1602 voyage, Ascensión witnessed what he considered a miracle. While the crew was ashore burying the dead, one sick sailor picked up a cactus fruit to eat. He started to feel better, and his crewmates followed his example.
这些船员们患的是坏血病。对于当时的人们而言，这种疾病既熟悉得令人心痛，又扑朔迷离。没有人知道它为什么会忽然降临在水手身上，也没有人知道要如何才能治愈它。但是，在1602年的这次航行中，阿森西翁目睹了奇迹的发生。当船员们上岸埋葬死者时，一名患病的水手随手摘了颗仙人掌果吃。他渐渐感觉好多了，于是他的船员同伴们也纷纷效仿。
“They all began to eat them and bring them back on board so that, after another two weeks, they were all healed,” the priest wrote.
“他们全都开始食用这种果实，并把它们带回船上，这样又过了两个星期，所有人都康复如初，”神父写道。
Over the next two centuries, it gradually became clear that scurvy was caused by a lack of fruits and vegetables on long-distance voyages. In the late 1700s, the British Navy started supplying its ships with millions of gallons of lemon juice, eradicating scurvy. But it wasn’t until 1928 that the Hungarian biochemist Albert Szent-Gyorgyi discovered the ingredient that cured scurvy: vitamin C.
在接下来的两个世纪中，人们逐渐明白，坏血病是由于在长途航行中缺乏水果和蔬菜造成的。18世纪末期，英国海军开始向其舰队供应数以百万计加仑的柠檬汁，以消除坏血病。但直到1928年，匈牙利生物化学家艾伯特·圣乔其(Albert Szent-Gyorgyi)才真正发现了果蔬中可治愈坏血病的成分：维生素C。
Szent-Gyorgyi’s experiments were part of a wave of early-20th-century research that pulled back the curtain on vitamins. Scientists discovered that the human body required minuscule amounts of 13 organic molecules. A deficiency of any of the vitamins led to different diseases — a lack of vitamin A to blindness, vitamin B12 to severe anemia, vitamin D to rickets.
在20世纪早期，科学界曾掀起一阵旨在揭开维生素神秘面纱的研究浪潮，圣乔其的实验就是其中之一。科学家们发现了13种人体必需，但需求量极为微小的有机分子，这就是维生素。缺乏其中任何一种都会导致不同的疾病——缺乏维生素A可造成失明，缺乏维生素B12会严重贫血，缺乏维生素D可引起佝偻病。
Today, a huge amount of research goes into understanding vitamins, but most of it is focused on how much of them people need to stay healthy. This work does not address a basic question, though: How did we end up so dependent on these peculiar little molecules?
今天，为了深入认识维生素，人们进行了大量研究，但其中大部分都集中于保持人体健康所需的各种维生素的数量之上。可是这些工作并没有解决最根本的问题：为什么我们如此依赖这些特定的小分子？
Recent research is providing new answers. It appears that vitamins were essential to life from its earliest stages some four billion years ago. Early life-forms could make their own vitamins, but some species — including ours — later lost that ability. Species began to depend on each other for vitamins, creating a complex flow of molecules that scientists have named “vitamin traffic.”
近期的研究为此提供了新的答案。研究显示，从大约40亿年前地球上诞生了最早的生命形式起，维生素就已经对生命不可或缺。早期的生命形式可以自己制造维生素，只是有些物种——包括我们——后来失去了这种能力。基于产维生素能力的差异，不同的物种开始互相依赖，从而产生了一种复杂的分子流动，科学家们将其命名为“维生素转运”(vitamin traffic)。
A Universal Chemistry
广泛存在的化学反应
Every vitamin is made by living cells — either our own, or in other species. Vitamin D is produced in our skin, for example, when sunlight strikes a precursor of cholesterol. A lemon tree makes vitamin C out of glucose. Making a vitamin is often an enormously baroque process. In some species, it takes 22 different proteins to craft a vitamin B12 molecule.
所有的维生素都是我们自己或其他物种的活细胞产生的。例如，当阳光照射在我们皮肤中的一种胆固醇前体时可以产生维生素D；柠檬树可以从葡萄糖生成维生素C。通常，维生素的生产是一项庞大而繁复精妙的过程。在某些物种中，制造一个维生素B12分子需要22种不同的蛋白质。
While a protein may be made up of thousands of atoms, a vitamin may be made up of just a few dozen. And yet, despite their small size, vitamins expand our chemical versatility. A vitamin cooperates with proteins to help them carry out reactions they couldn’t manage on their own. Vitamin B1, for example, helps proteins pull carbon dioxide from molecules.
虽然要成千上万的原子才能构建出一个蛋白质，维生素中却可能只含有几十个原子。尽管个头微小，它们却大大丰富了我们体内化学反应的种类。维生素可与蛋白质合作，帮助它们进行原本它们自己无法完成的反应。例如，维生素B1可协助蛋白质从分子中释放二氧化碳。
Vitamins carry out these chemical reactions not just in our own bodies but in all living things. “If you talk about bacteria, fungi, plants, humans — everybody needs them,” said Harold B. White III, a biochemist at the University of Delaware.
维生素不仅在我们体内承担这些化学反应，在所有生物中也同样如此。“从细菌、真菌、植物到人类——所有的生物体都需要它们，”特拉华大学(University of Delaware)的生物化学家哈罗德·B·怀特三世(Harold B. White III)指出。
This universal chemistry is likely the result of evolution. Scientists generally agree that life on earth today evolved from a chemically simpler form perhaps four billion years ago. Those primordial organisms relied on a single-stranded variant of DNA, called RNA. Back then, RNA did double duty, carrying genes, the way DNA does today, and catalyzing chemical reactions, as proteins do now.
这种化学反应的广泛存在很可能是自然演化的结果。科学家们普遍认同，当今地球上的生命是由40亿年前化学结构更为简单的生命形式演化而来。这些原始生物依赖于DNA的单链变体（即RNA）生存繁衍——那时候，RNA担负着双重职责：携带基因（即今天DNA的工作）和催化化学反应（现在蛋白质的功能）。
Dr. White was one of the first scientists to think seriously about this primordial “RNA world.” In 1975, he proposed that vitamins helped RNA molecules carry out their chemical reactions. While proteins took over those reactions, they still rely on the same vitamins. “There’s no way we’re going to get rid of them now,” he said.
怀特博士是对这一原始的“RNA世界”展开认真思索的首批科学家之一。1975年，他提出，维生素可协助RNA分子进行化学反应。虽然到了今天，这些反应已由蛋白质接手，但它们所依赖的维生素并没有改变。“我们现在已经离不开它们了，”他说。
When Dr. White offered up his theory, other scientists were skeptical. “People were saying, ‘How are you going to test it?’ ” he recalled. “I said, ‘I can’t.’ I didn’t see any way to do that work at the time.”
当怀特博士提出上述理论时，其他的科学家们对此持怀疑态度。“人们问我：‘你要如何检测这一理论？’”他回忆道。“我回答：‘我不能。’当时，我想不出有任何方法能够完成这项工作。”
It took nearly four decades for technology to catch up. Dipankar Sen, a biochemist at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia, set out in 2007 to test Dr. White’s idea.
直到近40年后，技术的发展终于赶上了理论的需求。2007年，西蒙·菲莎大学（Simon Fraser University，位于加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省）的生物化学家迪潘克尔·森(Dipankar Sen)开始着手检测怀特博士的理论。
After six years of tinkering and testing, Dr. Sen and a graduate student, Paul Cernak, found an RNA molecule that could use vitamin B1 to pull carbon dioxide from another molecule. That is what proteins use B1 for today, just as Dr. White had predicted. Dr. Cernak and Dr. Sen described their experiment in Nature Chemistry.
经过六年的试验和改进，森博士和研究生保罗·塞纳克(Paul Cernak)发现，有一种RNA分子可以利用维生素B1从另一种分子中释放二氧化碳——与今天蛋白质利用维生素B1的方式相同，这就印证了怀特博士的预测。塞纳克博士和森博士在《自然：化学》(Nature Chemistry)杂志上描述了他们的实验。
The Ability We Lost
我们丢失的能力
Once the ability to make vitamins evolved, some species became especially good at making them. Plants, for example, evolved into vitamin C factories, packing their leaves and fruits with the molecule. At first, vitamin C probably defended plants against stress — a function it carries out in other species, including us. But over time, the vitamin took on new jobs in plants, like helping control the development of fruit.
在演化出制造维生素的能力后，有一些物种就显得对此格外擅长。例如，植物演变成了生产维生素C的工厂，它们的叶片和果实中都富含这种分子。起初，维生素C的作用可能是保护植物免受应激的胁迫——在其他物种，包括我们人类体内，至今它仍然执行着这一功能。但随着时间的推移，植物中的维生素承担了帮助控制果实发育等新的工作。
It took hundreds of millions of years for plants to become such proficient vitamin C manufacturers, but vitamin production can change in far less time. Our own ancestors needed just thousands of years to alter their production of vitamin D. When humans left equatorial Africa and spread to higher latitudes, the sun was lower in the sky and supplied less ultraviolet light. By evolving lighter skin, Europeans and Asians were able to continue making a healthy supply of vitamin D.
植物花了亿万年的时间才将自己转变为维生素C的专业制造商，但维生素的生产也可能在较短的时间内就发生变化。我们自己的祖先只需要数千年就改变了他们生产维生素D的能力。当年，人类离开非洲赤道地区向高纬度地区扩散，太阳在天空中的位置也随之降低，提供的紫外线也有所减少。欧洲人和亚洲人演化出了浅色的皮肤，从而维持了维生素D的正常供应。
Aside from vitamins D and K, we humans can’t make any of the vitamins we need to stay healthy. In some cases, our ancestors could make them, but lost that ability. Our mammalian ancestors 100 million years ago never got scurvy, for example, because they could make their own vitamin C.
除了维生素D和维生素K之外，我们人类无法生产其他任何维持健康所必需的维生素。对于其中的一些，我们的祖先原本可以制造，后来却丧失了这种能力。例如，1亿年前，始祖哺乳动物就从来没有受到过坏血病的困扰，因为他们可以自己制造维生素C。
Many vertebrates can make vitamin C, and use an identical set of genes to do so. “We should be able to make it, too, since we have all the genes,” said Rebecca Stevens of the French National Institute for Agricultural Research.
许多脊椎动物都可以制造维生素C，且它们使用的是同一套基因。“我们应该也曾经拥有这一能力，因为我们也具备所有这些基因，”法国国家农业研究院(French National Institute for Agricultural Research)的丽贝卡·史蒂文斯(Rebecca Stevens)说。
Unlike a frog or a kangaroo, however, we have crippling mutations in one of those genes, known as GULO. Unable to make the GULO protein, we cannot produce vitamin C.
然而，不同于青蛙或袋鼠，我们在其中一个基因——GULO中发生了重大突变。由于无法产生GULO蛋白，我们就不能制造维生素C。
“It’s not just us — it goes back a long time,” said Guy Drouin, a molecular evolutionary biologist at the University of Ottawa. He and other researchers have found that apes and monkeys, our closest primate relatives, have disabled GULO genes, with many of the same mutations. Dr. Drouin has concluded that the common ancestor we share with those other primates lost the ability to make vitamin C around 60 million years ago.
“这种突变不仅限于我们——实际上，它可以追溯至很久很久以前，”渥太华大学的分子演化生物学家盖伊·德劳因(Guy Drouin)说。他和其他研究人员发现，在与我们亲缘最近的灵长类——猿和猴的基因组中也存在许多与我们相同的基因突变，导致它们的GULO基因也失活了。德劳因博士得出结论：我们与其他灵长类动物的共同祖先在约6000万年前失去了制造维生素C的能力。
It Wasn’t Just Us
我们并非特例
Primates are not the only animals with a damaged GULO gene, however, and that’s why scientists were able to discover vitamin C in the first place. Dr. Szent-Gyorgyi made his breakthrough thanks to a discovery that guinea pigs, unlike other rodents, get scurvy. It turns out that their GULO gene is disabled by a different set of mutations from the ones we carry.
然而，灵长类并非唯一GULO基因受到损伤的动物，最初科学家们能够发现维生素C就是因为这个原因。圣乔其博士的突破性进展归功于他发现：与其他啮齿类动物不同，豚鼠可能发生坏血病。研究显示，由于豚鼠的GULO基因中存在与我们不同的另一组突变，导致了该基因的失活。
As it did in primates and guinea pigs, the GULO gene became disabled in a few other lineages, like bats and songbirds. Scientists have found that animals tend to lose vitamin C after a switch to a diet rich in it. Our primate ancestors, for example, started eating fruit and leaves that supplied them with far more vitamin C than they needed.
就像在灵长类动物和豚鼠中一样，在其他几个动物谱系（如蝙蝠和鸣禽）中，GULO基因也出现失活。科学家们发现，在将富含维生素C的食物纳入食谱后，动物很容易失去自己制造维生素C的能力。例如，我们的灵长类动物祖先开始摄取水果，而水果中提供的维生素C远远超过了他们的需求量。
“It may seem counterintuitive that you would lose a gene that enables you to be independent,” said Katherine E. Helliwell of the University of Cambridge, co-author of an August review about vitamin decay in Trends in Genetics. “But if you’re always surrounded by a vitamin for a long period of time, then you don’t need to use the gene.”
8月，《遗传学趋势》(Trends in Genetics)杂志上刊登了一篇关于产维生素能力衰退的综述。“失去一个令你无法独立生存的基因似乎相当违背常识，”该综述的共同作者、剑桥大学(University of Cambridge)的凯瑟琳·E·赫利韦尔(Katherine E. Helliwell)说。“但如果你长期生活在富含该维生素的环境中，你确实就不怎么需要使用这个基因。”
Now that scientists can scan genomes of thousands of species, they’re discovering many more cases in which vitamin genes have either decayed or disappeared altogether. Sergio Sanudo-Wilhelmy of the University of Southern California and his colleagues recently surveyed the genomes of 400 of the most abundant species of bacteria in the oceans. As they report in a paper to be published in the Annual Review of Marine Science, 24 percent of the bacteria lack genes to make B1, and 63 percent can’t make B12.
随着科学家们对数千个物种的基因组进行了扫描，他们发现了更多维生素基因衰退或完全消失的案例。南加州大学的塞尔赫·萨努多威廉米(Sergio Sanudo-Wilhelmy)及其同事最近调查了海洋中最丰富的400种细菌的基因组。他们在即将发表于《海洋科学年评》(Annual Review of Marine Science)上的一篇论文中报告，这些细菌中有24%缺乏制造维生素B1的基因，63%无法制造维生素B12。
These recent studies are especially surprising because bacteria have long been considered self-sufficient when it comes to vitamins. Now scientists need to figure out why many species of bacteria in the ocean aren’t dead from a microbial version of scurvy.
这些近期的研究格外出人意料，因为长期以来，人们一直以为细菌是维生素自给自足的物种。现在，科学家们需要弄清楚的是：为什么海洋中的众多细菌物种并没有因为“微生物坏血病”而死亡。
“Somebody’s making it for the good of the community, but we don’t know who,” Dr. Sanudo-Wilhelmy said.
“或许有什么东西在为整个生物群落生产维生素，但我们不知道这些无名英雄姓甚名谁，”萨努多威廉米博士说。
Only recently have scientists made measurements of vitamins in the sea. They are finding some places that are abundant with them and others that are vitamin deserts. It is possible that the difference influences not just bacteria and algae, but the animals that feed on them.
直到最近，科学家们才实现了海洋中维生素的测定。他们发现，有些区域中维生素含量非常丰富，而其他区域则是“维生素荒漠”。很可能，这一差异不仅影响到细菌和藻类，还波及了以这两者为食的动物。
Vitamins flow in complex routes, not just in the ocean, but on land. We humans can’t make our own supply of vitamin B12, for example, so we need to get it from food. One way is to eat meat like beef, which contains B12. It turns out that the cows and other animals that we consume don’t make B12 in their own cells. Instead, the bacteria in their guts manufacture it for them.
在海洋中和陆地上，维生素均沿着复杂的路径流转。例如，我们人类无法制造自己所需的维生素B12，因此需要从食物中摄取它们。其中一种方式是食用牛肉等含维生素B12的肉类。而研究表明，我们食用的奶牛和其他动物也不是在自己的细胞里生产维生素B12。相反，是它们的肠道细菌在为它们服务。
We are also home to thousands of species of bacteria, which synthesize vitamins as they eat our food. Does that mean we depend on our internal vitamin traffic? “It’s still theoretical,” said Douwe van Sinderen, a microbiologist at University College Cork in Ireland. “But evidence is building that bacteria can provide some vitamins that we need.”
我们体内也居住着成千上万种细菌，它们也可以利用我们摄取的食物合成维生素。这是否意味着我们可以依赖于内部的维生素转运？“一切还只是理论推测，”爱尔兰科克大学(University College Cork)的微生物学家杜威·范辛德伦(Douwe van Sinderen)说。“但是，已经有越来越多的证据表明，细菌可以提供我们必需的某些维生素。”
If that’s so, we may need to think of our bodies as self-contained oceans of vitamin traffic — a continuation of the traffic that has occurred on earth for four billion years.
如果是这样的话，我们或许应将自己的身体也视为维生素自给自足的海洋——40亿年来在地球上始终循环不息的维生素转运在我们体内得到了延续。