SITTWE, Myanmar — Satellite images show villages burned to the ground. Human rights groups relay allegations of rape and the slaughter of children. Thousands of refugees have fled across the border to Bangladesh, while aid workers have been prevented from reaching the afflicted.
缅甸实兑——卫星图像显示，村庄被烧毁。一些人权组织传出了儿童遭受强奸和屠戮的消息。成千上万名难民逃往孟加拉边境，救援人员被阻止进入这个遭受磨难的地区。
As the Myanmar Army unleashes a brutal counterinsurgency campaign against the Rohingya in the remote north, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar’s leader, has remained nearly silent, putting her status as an exemplar of democratic values and a Nobel Prize laureate in a different light.
缅甸军队对北部边区的罗辛亚人进行残酷镇压时，该国领导人昂山素季依然几乎保持沉默，令外界对她作为民主价值观楷模和诺贝尔奖获得者的地位产生了不同的看法。
Human rights advocates accuse her of condoning a military campaign designed to drive the Rohingya, a Muslim minority in this majority-Buddhist nation, off their land in Rakhine State and out of the country. The United Nations human rights agency has said the military abuses may amount to crimes against humanity.
人权倡导者指责她容忍相关军事行动，它旨在把这个以佛教徒为主的国家里的穆斯林少数民族罗辛亚人逐出他们在若开邦的家园，甚至逐出这个国家。联合国人权机构表示，军队的暴行可能构成反人类罪。
Now, nearly two months after the campaign began, it remains unclear what Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s plan is. She has chosen not to visit the area, close to the border with Bangladesh, which has been sealed under a military directive designed to keep out foreign aid workers and journalists.
现在，在该军事行动开始近两个月后，昂山素季的计划依然不明朗。她选择不去访问这个靠近孟加拉边境的地区。该地区已按照军事命令被封锁起来，阻止外国救援人员和记者进入。
And though she has created an advisory commission headed by Kofi Annan, the former United Nations secretary general, to look into long-term reconciliation in Rakhine State, she has largely defended the military’s behavior.
虽然她设立了一个以前联合国秘书长科菲·安南(Kofi Annan)为首的顾问委员会，研究若开邦的长期和解方案，但她总体上维护了相关的军事行为。
“Show me a country without human rights issues,” she said at an Oct. 12 news conference. “Every country has human rights abuses. I am taking seriously allegations of human rights violations in this country.”
“给我指出一个没有人权问题的国家，”她在10月12日的一次新闻发布会上说。“每个国家都有践踏人权的问题。我正在严肃对待对本国侵犯人权的指责。”
A few weeks later during a visit to Tokyo, she said, “We have been very careful not to blame anyone until we have complete evidence about who has been responsible.”
几周后，在对东京的一次访问中，她说，“我们非常谨慎地不去指责任何人，除非我们有完全的证据，能够证明谁是负责人。”
The Obama administration had hoped that once Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi came to power, the plight of the Rohingya would improve. Instead, their living conditions have deteriorated, American officials say. Near the town of Sittwe, south of where the military campaign is being carried out, more than 100,000 Rohingya live in internment camps, after their properties were demolished in communal violence in 2012.
奥巴马政府曾经希望，昂山素季一旦上台，罗辛亚人的困境就会得到改善。但美国官员称，他们的生活状况反而出现了恶化。这场军事行动目前正在实兑以北展开，共有10万余名罗辛亚人住在该市附近的拘留营里，其家园于2012年在群体暴力事件中被捣毁。
The army began its campaign this fall, after it said armed men killed nine police officers on Oct. 9. But instead of retaliating against what is believed to be a small group of poorly armed Rohingya men, it has uprooted tens of thousands of impoverished civilians, most of whom lead a hand-to-mouth existence as rice farmers and petty traders.
军方的行动始于今年秋天，行动前它声称武装人员在10月9日杀害了9名警员。凶手据信是一小群武器装备很糟糕的罗辛亚男子，但军方没去向那些人复仇，反而迫使数万名贫困的平民背井离乡，他们大多是种大米的农民和小商贩，收入仅够糊口。
The use of helicopter gunships and the “wholesale burning of villages” amounted to “gross violations of human rights,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and an early supporter of Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi.
使用武装直升机并“大规模烧毁村庄”，构成了“对人权的严重侵犯”，参议院外交关系委员会民主党资深成员本杰明·L·卡汀(Benjamin L. Cardin)说。卡汀参议员是昂山素季的早期支持者之一。
“Descriptions coming out of there are consistent with decades of abuse by the military against the Karen, Chin and Shan ethnic people,” said Tyler Giannini, a professor at Harvard Law School and a co-director of its International Human Rights Clinic. “That’s why it is beholden on the government to investigate what’s going on against the Rohingya and hold those responsible accountable.”
“关于那里的描述，和军方在数十年间对克伦族人、钦族人以及掸族人的凌虐如出一辙，”哈佛大学法学院(Harvard Law School)教授及该院国际人权诊所(International Human Rights Clinic)联合主任泰勒·詹尼尼(Tyler Giannini)说。“因此，政府有责任就罗辛亚人当下的遭遇进行调查，并追究相关人员的责任。”
As the civilian leader of the government, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi now shares power with the military. The army controls three vital cabinet posts: defense, home affairs and border affairs. These are the ministries running the anti-insurgency operation in Rakhine State.
作为缅甸政府平民出身的领导人，昂山素季眼下处于和军方分享权力的状态。军方控制着内阁里的三个关键职位：国防部长、内政部长和边境事务部长。若开邦戡乱行动的发动者正是这几个部。
Most of the information she receives on the Rohingya is from military leaders, and they have convinced her that the Rohingya in Rakhine are terrorists, analysts in Myanmar say. Her government advisers are mostly former military officers, or veteran civil servants with firm beliefs about the superiority of Buddhist values over all others, they say.
缅甸的分析人士表示，她得到的关于罗辛亚人的信息主要来自军方领导人，而后者让她相信，若开邦的罗辛亚人是恐怖分子。他们说，她的政府顾问大多是前军官或者资深公务员，那些人坚信佛教价值观比其他价值观都要优越。
A spokesman for Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi said she was “standing” with the military. “She knows everything,” said U Zaw Htay, the spokesman. “The military has been briefing her on every important issue.”
昂山素季的发言人说她站在军方一边。“她知道每一件事，”其发言人佐泰(Zaw Htay)说。“军方会就每一个重要问题向她汇报。”
So far, the government has declined requests to appoint an independent inquiry into the military’s abuses. Instead, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi is depending on the advisory commission, which does not include any Rohingya members. Mr. Annan is scheduled to visit Sittwe on Friday.
目前，政府拒绝了就军方的暴行启动独立调查的请求。而昂山素季赖以调查此事的顾问委员会中连一个罗辛亚族成员都没有。安南计划于周五到访实兑。
Mr. Giannini said there is enough evidence to warrant an independent commission similar to one conducted in the Darfur region of Sudan under the auspices of the United Nations in 2004. That inquiry found the Sudanese military had committed war crimes and referred the matter to the International Criminal Court.
詹尼尼说，有足够的证据证明，需要由一个独立的委员会介入，类似于2004年的那个在联合国主持下深入苏丹达尔富尔地区开展工作的委员会。该委员会得出了苏丹军方犯有战争罪行的调查结论，并将此事提交给了国际刑事法庭。
Like many who admired Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s steadfastness during 15 years of house arrest under the former junta, Mr. Giannini, the Harvard Law professor, said he was baffled by her failure to speak out.
许多人都曾叹服于昂山素季在被前军政府软禁的15年间做到了矢志不移，现在却因为她没能仗义执言而感到困惑，哈佛法学院教授詹尼尼说自己便是如此。
“She says she is a politician,” he noted. “You can have politics and you can have protection of the civilian population at the same time.”
“她说她是一个政治人物，”他指出。“你在从政的同时是可以保护平民的呀。”