BANGKOK — A series of unexplained blasts across Myanmar over the past several days has left two people dead and raised anxiety in the country’s main city, Yangon, where an explosion on Monday at a luxury hotel injured an American tourist.
曼谷——过去几天，缅甸各地一系列原因不明的爆炸事件已造成两人死亡，并在该国主要城市仰光引发了焦虑。周一，仰光一家豪华酒店发生爆炸，导致一名美国游客受伤。
Since Friday, nine explosions have hit hotels, a Buddhist pagoda, and restaurants in Yangon and two regions north and northeast of the city, the authorities in Myanmar said.
缅甸当局称，自周五以来，仰光以及仰光北面和东北面的两个地区已经发生了九起爆炸事件，发生爆炸的地方包括酒店、餐馆和一座佛塔。
No one had claimed responsibility as of Tuesday for detonating the small, homemade bomb in the Yangon hotel, according to The Associated Press bureau in the city — adding to confusion over whether the blasts were coordinated and who was behind them. As Myanmar sheds the legacy of five decades of military rule, the explosions are another source of concern for a country already plagued by religious violence and fighting between ethnic groups and the military.
美联社(The Associated Press)仰光分社称，截至周二，尚未有人声称对发生在仰光那家酒店的爆炸事件负责，爆炸物品是自制的小炸弹。这样一来，关于这些爆炸是否经过协调及出自何人之手的问题更不明朗。宗教暴力以及少数族裔群体与军方之间的冲突让缅甸苦不堪言。在缅甸摆脱50年军政府统治的遗留影响之际，这些爆炸事件为这个国家带来了又一个需要担忧的问题。
The blast at the Traders Hotel, one of the best known hotels in Yangon and the former address of some United Nations agencies, occurred just before midnight on Monday, the police said. The United States Embassy said that the blast had “seriously injured” the American tourist.
警方称，商贸酒店(Traders Hotel)的爆炸是在周一快到零点时发生的。该酒店是仰光最著名的酒店之一，也曾是联合国部分机构的所在地。美国大使馆(United States Embassy)称，爆炸导致前述美国游客“严重受伤”。
The Myanmar news media reported that the wounded American was on vacation with her husband and two young children. The bomb was a crude device that was planted in the bathroom of the family’s room on the ninth floor, according to The A.P.
缅甸新闻媒体报道称，受伤的美国人遇袭时正在休假，和她一起的还有她的丈夫和两个年幼的子女。根据美联社的报道，爆炸物品是一个粗糙的装置，被藏这家人的浴室里，他们的房间位于九层。
U Zaw Htay, a director in the office of President Thein Sein, said in a telephone interview that the people behind the bomb blasts “intentionally attempted to portray Myanmar as not peaceful, just as more tourists, more investors and other important guests arrive.”
登盛(Thein Sein)总统办公室主任佐泰(U Zaw Htay)在电话采访里说，“就在更多游客、投资者和其他重要客人抵达缅甸之际”，这些爆炸事件的幕后主使“蓄意把缅甸抹黑成一个不太平的国家”。
Mr. Zaw Htay said the motive for the blasts may have been to scuttle negotiations between minority ethnic groups, the government and the military. The blasts were carried out by “individuals or groups who dislike democracy and development,” he said.
佐泰说，爆炸的动机可能是破坏少数族裔群体与政府和军队之间的谈判。他说，爆炸事件的实施者是“憎恨民主和发展的个人或组织”。
The police said they had arrested four suspects on Tuesday in connection with the explosion at the Traders Hotel, but that it was too early to establish why the hotel was targeted.
警方说，本周二，他们已经逮捕了四名与商贸酒店爆炸案有关的嫌疑人，不过，酒店被选为目标的原因尚待调查。
Last week, Myanmar accepted the chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, a responsibility that entails hosting numerous meetings of government leaders and steering the agenda of the regional group. Some analysts have questioned whether the government of Myanmar is equipped to handle the chairmanship.
上周，缅甸接受了担当东南亚国家联盟(Association of Southeast Asian Nations)轮值主席的责任，具体任务包括举办大量政府领导人会议，引导该地区组织的议事日程。一些分析人士已经质疑，缅甸政府是否有能力担当此任。