HONG KONG — Symbolically, this is supposed to be an important moment for Myanmar in its transition to democracy. In taking over the annual rotating chairmanship of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, it is assuming a responsibility that the government considers a prestigious honor. After five decades of military dictatorship, Myanmar is moving on several fronts to shore up the country’s international image, hosting the Southeast Asian Games, a regional sporting event, in December and releasing what it said was the last of its political prisoners.
香港——对缅甸民主转型来说，这本应是一个具有象征意义的重要时刻。缅甸出任东南亚国家联盟（Asean，简称东盟）年度轮值主席国，意味着承担起一项该国政府视为很高荣誉的职责。在经历了50年的军事独裁统治之后，缅甸正在从几个方面提升该国的国际形象，在去年12月主办了地区性体育赛事东南亚运动会，还释放了政府所称的最后一批政治犯。
But now the country’s leaders find themselves under an unwelcome spotlight after, United Nations officials say, rampaging mobs in western Myanmar killed at least four dozen people, many of them Muslim, earlier this month in the latest spasm of violence to afflict the area.
然而，缅甸领导人此刻却发现他们受到一种不想得到的关注。前不久，联合国官员称，缅甸西部的暴民，在本月初该地区爆发的最近一次暴乱中，杀死了近50人，死者大多是穆斯林。
The Myanmar government has been criticized for its failure to aggressively investigate and prosecute the killings of Muslims ever since sectarian violence in June 2012 triggered a series of attacks across the country. But human rights groups say that with this latest round of anti-Muslim violence, the government now appears to be trying to cover up the problem.
自从2012年6月发生的一起宗教暴力引发了全国范围的一系列袭击事件以来，人们一直指责缅甸政府未能积极调查以及依法处理杀死穆斯林教徒的人。现在人权组织称，从最近发生的新一轮反穆斯林暴力来看，缅甸政府似乎正在试图掩盖问题。
The area where the attacks occurred, northern Rakhine State, has been riven by tensions between its Buddhist population and a group of Muslims known as Rohingya, with frequent bursts of violence driving more than 100,000 Rohingya from their homes and leaving at least 200 of them dead. The majority of Myanmar’s population is Buddhist, but Muslims outnumber Buddhists along the border with Bangladesh, a demographic trend that is partly behind the tensions.
袭击事件发生在缅甸北部的若开邦(Rakhine State)，该地区受当地信奉佛教的人与一个被称为罗辛亚(Rohingya)的穆斯林群体之间的紧张局势困扰，频繁发生暴力事件，已导致十多万罗辛亚人流离失所，造成其中至少200人死亡。缅甸人口的大多数信奉佛教，但在该国与孟加拉国接壤的边境地区，穆斯林教徒要比佛教徒多，这种人口趋势是导致紧张局势的部分原因。
Navi Pillay, the U.N. high commissioner for human rights, said Thursday that the latest violence started on Jan. 9 when eight Rohingya Muslim men were killed in Du Chee Yar Tan village, near the border with Bangladesh. Four days later, after the reported kidnapping and killing of a police sergeant, the local police stood by as Buddhists seeking revenge used swords, knives and sticks to attack the Rohingya, killing 40 more men, women and children, officials said.
联合国人权事务高级专员纳瓦·皮莱(Navi Pillay)周四称，最近的这起暴力事件是1月9日开始的，当天有8名罗辛亚穆斯林男子在杜其亚丹村(Du Chee Yar Tan)被杀，该村位于孟加拉国边境附近。官员称，四天之后，在一名警长遭绑架后被杀害的消息传出来后，寻求报复的佛教徒用剑、刀以及棍棒攻击了罗辛亚人，打死了40多位男人、女人和儿童，而当地警方却袖手旁观。
The attacks were first reported by The Associated Press, but government officials have denied the accounts of a massacre of Rohingya, with a government spokesman, Ye Htut, saying last week, “We have had no information about killings.” He also has suggested that the claims of violence against the Rohingya were being used to cover up or play down the killing of the police officer. Last week, the government-run newspaper The New Light of Myanmar printed an article stating in the headline that The A.P. “falsely reports violence occurred in Rakhine State” and that the agency’s reports “seemed to instigate” the unrest.
美联社最早报道了这些袭击事件，但缅甸政府官员否认发生了屠杀罗辛亚人的事情，一名政府发言人叶杜(Ye Htut)上周说，“我们没有任何关于杀人的信息。”他还暗示，针对罗辛亚人暴力的声称被用来掩盖或淡化警长被杀一事。缅甸政府报纸《缅甸新光报》(New Light of Myanmar)上周刊登的一篇报道在其标题上称，美联社有关“若开邦发生暴力事件的报道不实”，而且其报道“似乎是要煽动”暴乱。
The latest violence erupted after monks from a group known as 969, an extremist movement, descended on the area and began giving sermons calling for the expulsion of all the Rohingya, according to accounts from local media.
据当地媒体报道，在最近这次暴力事件发生前，属于一个被称为969的极端运动的一些僧人来到该地区布道，呼吁驱逐所有的罗辛亚人。
Ms. Pillay of the United Nations called for an aggressive investigation of the attacks by Myanmar’s government, urging it “to carry out a full, prompt and impartial investigation and ensure that victims and their families receive justice.”
联合国人权高级专员皮莱呼吁缅甸政府积极调查袭击事件，敦促当局“展开全面、迅速和公正的调查，并确保为受害者及其家人伸张正义。”
“By responding to these incidents quickly and decisively, the government has an opportunity to show transparency and accountability, which will strengthen democracy and the rule of law in Myanmar,” she added.
她补充说，“缅甸政府如果对这些袭击事件迅速而果断地作出反应，则可以借此来显示其透明性以及可信度，这将会强化缅甸的民主和法制。”
Yet the violence against Muslims has been widely publicized in Muslim countries, including in Indonesia and Malaysia, key members of Asean. The government has sought to play down the issue and announced earlier this month that it would not allow the issue to be put on the agenda during its chairmanship.
然而，针对穆斯林的暴力事件已经在穆斯林国家被广泛报道，包括东盟的主要成员国印度尼西亚和马来西亚。而缅甸政府则试图淡化这一问题，政府在本月初宣布，不会让这个问题在其担任轮值主席国期间出现在议程上。
Anti-Muslim feelings run deep in Myanmar, partly because the Rohingya, who number around one million and are the largest Muslim group in the country, are considered illegal immigrants. The Rohingya issue is deeply emotional among the Buddhist-Burmese majority, who link it to the legacy of colonial times when large numbers of Indians were brought into Burma by the British.
缅甸的反穆斯林情绪根深蒂固，部分是因为罗辛亚人被认为是非法移民，缅甸的罗辛亚族人口约为100万，是该国最大的穆斯林群体。在占缅甸人口多数的佛教徒中，罗辛亚问题带有很深的感情因素，他们把该问题与殖民时代遗留的问题联系起来，英国人把缅甸作为殖民地期间，曾把大批印度人带到缅甸。
The Myanmar government refuses to use the term Rohingya, preferring to call the group Bengalis.
缅甸政府拒绝使用罗辛亚这个名称，而是称该群体为孟加拉人(Bengalis)。
The group Human Rights Watch said Friday that police officials in Rakhine have issued an order allowing for the arrest of all Rohingya males over the age of 10.
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)周五称，若开邦的警方曾下令允许逮捕所有10岁以上的罗辛亚男子。
“In the event such an order has been issued, it should be rescinded immediately and authorities should act to ensure the safety of the entire population in the area,” the group said.
该组织称，“如果发出过这种命令的话，应当立刻将其取消，当局应当采取行动确保该地区所有人的安全。”
While President Obama highlighted the plight of the Rohingya during his visit to Myanmar in November, the country’s leading politicians, including Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Prize-winning rights leader, have largely been quiet on the issue. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi is considered a potential candidate for president in the 2015 elections.
尽管奥巴马总统去年11月访问缅甸时，曾特意提到罗辛亚人的处境，但缅甸的主要政治家，包括诺贝尔奖获得者、人权领袖昂山素季(Daw Aung San Suu Kyi)在内，大都对这一问题保持沉默。昂山素季被认为可能会在2015年缅甸举行大选时参加总统竞选。