IN THE ANDAMAN SEA OFF THAILAND — A wooden fishing boat carrying several hundred desperate migrants from Myanmar was spotted adrift in the Andaman Sea between Thailand and Malaysia on Thursday, part of an exodus in which thousands of people have taken to the sea in recent weeks with no country willing to take them in.
安达曼海泰国海域──一艘载着数百名移民的木质渔船，在周四被发现漂流在安达曼海上泰国与马来西亚间的海域。这些走投无路的移民是近几周在海上漂流的数千名移民中的一部分，没有哪个国家愿意接纳他们。
Cries of “Please help us! I have no water!” rose from the boat as a vessel carrying journalists approached. “Please give me water!”
载着记者的船只一接近渔船，渔船里便传来“请救救我们！我没有水！”的呼声。“请给我水！”
The green and red fishing boat, packed with men, women and children squatting on the deck with only plastic tarps to protect them from the sun, had been turned away by the Malaysian authorities on Wednesday, passengers said.
红绿相间的渔船塞满成年男女与儿童，他们蹲坐在甲板上，只有塑胶防水布为他们遮阳。船上的乘客说，马来西亚当局在周三拒绝他们入境。
They said that they had been on the boat for three months, and that the boat’s captain and crew had abandoned them six days ago. Ten passengers died during the voyage, and their bodies were thrown overboard, the passengers said.
他们表示已在船上漂流三个月，船长与船员则在六天前抛弃了他们。乘客表示，航行中有十名乘客死亡，尸体则被抛入海中。
“I am very hungry,” said a 15-year-old boy, Mohamed Siraj, who said he was from western Myanmar. “Quickly help us please.”
“我很饿，”15岁的男孩穆罕默德·西拉吉(Mohamed Siraj)说他来自缅甸西部。“请快快帮我们。”
It was unclear Thursday whether they would receive that help, however, despite the presence of a Thai Navy vessel, which arrived after being alerted to the boat’s presence by The New York Times.
他们是否会获得帮助，截至周四仍不得而知，虽然泰国海军船只在《纽约时报》通报渔船的存在后，抵达了现场。
Instead, the presence of an estimated 6,000 to 20,000 migrants at sea, fleeing ethnic persecution in Myanmar and poverty in Bangladesh, has created a crisis across the region, with countries pointing fingers at one another and declining to take responsibility themselves.
估计有6千到2万人漂流在海上，这些移民逃离了缅甸的种族迫害与孟加拉国的贫苦环境。移民在周边地区引发了危机，各国互相指责，各国也纷纷拒绝承担责任。
Most of the migrants were thought to be headed to Malaysia, but after more than 1,500 came ashore in Malaysia and Indonesia in the last week, both countries declared their intention to turn away any more boats carrying migrants.
人们认为这些移民多数打算前往马来西亚，但在上周有超过1500名移民在马来西亚与印度尼西亚登陆后，两国都宣称，会拒绝其他载有移民的船只。
Thai officials have not articulated an official policy since the crisis began, beyond convening a regional conference to discuss the problem this month. Thailand is not known to have allowed any of the migrants to land there.
自危机发生以来，泰国官方没有清晰阐明官方政策，只是曾在本月召开过一场地区会议讨论这一问题。泰国方面未传出允许任何移民登陆的消息。
The Indonesian Navy turned away a boat with thousands of passengers on Tuesday, urging it on to Malaysia, while the Malaysian authorities turned away two boats with a total of at least 800 passengers on Wednesday.
印尼海军在周二拒绝一艘载运数千名移民的船只入境，并要求船只继续行驶，前往马来西亚。马来西亚官方则在周三拒绝两艘总计载有至少800名乘客的船只入境。
The Thai naval vessel that approached the migrant ship here on Thursday kept its distance, with its commander, Lt. Cmdr. Veerapong Nakprasit, saying the migrants had “entered illegally.” At one point, the Thai sailors tossed packages of instant noodles to the boat, though the migrants appeared to have no means to cook them.
周四驶近移民船的泰国海军船只则保持了一段距离，指挥官威拉邦·那格巴西德少校(Veerapong Nakprasit)说，移民已经“非法入境”。泰国海军士兵当时曾向移民船投掷装有方便面的袋子，但移民看来并没有办法煮食。
“What we have now is a game of maritime Ping-Pong,” said Joe Lowry, a spokesman for the International Organization for Migration in Bangkok. “It’s maritime Ping-Pong with human life. What’s the endgame? I don’t want to be too overdramatic, but if these people aren’t treated and brought to shore soon, we are going to have a boat full of corpses.”
“这种做法无疑是在海上打乒乓球，”国际移民组织(International Organization for Migration)驻曼谷的发言人乔·劳里(Joe Lowry)表示。“但眼下人命关天，这样下去会有什么结果？我不是夸大其辞，但要是不尽快把这些人带上岸治疗，恐怕船上伤亡会很惨重。”
The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has asked regional governments to conduct search and rescue operations to no avail. “It’s a potential humanitarian disaster,” said Jeffrey Savage, a senior protection officer with the agency.
联合国难民事务高级专员公署(Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)要求该地区各国政府展开水上搜救并向难民提供援助，却未获各国回应。难民署高级照护官杰弗里·塞维奇(Jeffrey Savage)表示，“有可能酿成人道灾难。”
Many of the migrants are believed to have been abandoned by their traffickers with little food or water.
据信，这些移民被蛇头抛弃，船上仅剩为数不多的食物和饮水。
Indonesia’s chief military spokesman, Maj. Gen. Fuad Basya, said Thursday that the military would “push back any boat that wants to enter Indonesian waters without permission, including those of boat people like the Rohingya.”
印度尼西亚的军方首席发言人夫阿德·巴斯雅少将(Maj. Gen. Fuad Basya)于周四表示，该国军方将“驱逐所有未获允许而意图靠近印度尼西亚水域的船只，包括载有罗辛亚人(Rohingya)的这类船只”。
Tens of thousands of Rohingya, a stateless Muslim ethnic group, have fled Myanmar over the last several years, most going to Malaysia or Bangladesh. But the exodus over the last few weeks seemed to have caught everyone by surprise.
罗辛亚人是无国籍的穆斯林族群，过去数年间有上万名罗辛亚人逃离缅甸，他们大部分逃往马来西亚或孟加拉国。不过，过去几周的大出走，却出乎众人意料。
There is no single reason for the spike in departures from Myanmar and Bangladesh, said Chris Lewa, coordinator of the Arakan Project, a human rights group that tracks migration in the Andaman Sea. For the Rohingya, an accumulation of setbacks has taken a toll, she said, including the tightening of fishing permits, which has hit the Rohingya monetarily and nutritionally, and the government’s insistence that its one million Rohingya residents are not citizens.
若开项目(Arakan Project)协调员克里斯·莱瓦(Chris Lewa)表示，来自缅甸和孟加拉国的这波难民潮，无法归咎于任何单一原因。若开计划是一个人权团体，致力于追踪安达曼海上的移民状况。莱瓦说，对罗辛亚族而言，这波出走潮源自他们遭遇的一次又一次迫害，例如收紧捕鱼许可的发放，这冲击了罗辛亚族的收入及饮食；另外，缅甸官方也一再坚持，该国的一百万名罗辛亚族居民，并非该国公民。
“It’s a combination of things,” Ms. Lewa said. “Their lives have become worse and worse.”
“这是由一连串的事情交织而成的结果，”莱瓦表示，“他们的生活每下愈况”。
The fact that so many are at sea at once, however, may be in part an unintended consequence of the Thai crackdown on human trafficking. After the discovery of a mass grave this month believed to contain the bodies of 33 Burmese and Bangladeshi migrants, officials raided several smuggling camps in southern Thailand and charged dozens of police officers and senior officials with being complicit in the trade.
然而，这么多人同时越洋出走，或许也是泰国打击人口走私的意外后果。本月泰国境内发现大型坟堆，据信其中有33名缅甸及孟加拉国移民的尸体。之后泰国官员便突袭了南部多处人蛇集团的巢穴，并起诉了数十名涉嫌共谋人口走私的警察及高官。
The camps were way stations where migrants were often detained in prisonlike conditions until they or their family could pay smugglers for passage to Malaysia. As horrid as those camps were, without them, the migrants have been stuck at sea, their traffickers afraid to set foot in Thailand.
这些巢穴是人口走私的中继站，移民时常会被拘禁在类似监狱的环境里，直到他们本人或家人有能力向蛇头支付前往马来西亚的通行费。尽管这些巢穴骇人听闻，但要没有了这些地方，难民就只得沦落海上，因为带头的人蛇不敢踏上泰国领土。