SITTWE, Myanmar — By the time the baby girl was brought to the makeshift pharmacy, her chest was heaving, her temperature soaring. The supply of oxygen that might have helped was now off limits, in a Doctors Without Borders clinic shut down by the government in February.
缅甸实兑——女婴被带到临时搭建的药店时，胸口随着呼吸起起伏伏，体温升到很高。政府2月关闭无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)经营的一家诊所后，已经无法取得氧气，而氧气或许有助于救治这名女婴。
A hospital visit was out of the question; admission for Rohingya Muslims, a long-persecuted minority, always requires a lengthy approval process — time that the baby, named Parmin, did not have. In desperation, the pharmacy owner sent the family to the rarely staffed Dapaing clinic, the only government emergency health center for the tens of thousands of Rohingya Muslims herded into displaced people’s camps. Although it was just 4 p.m., the doors were shuttered.
把女婴送到医院也于事无补：收治长期受到迫害的穆斯林少数民族罗辛亚族，总是需要冗长的审批流程——这个名叫帕敏(Parmin)的女婴已经没有时间了。情急之下，药店老板把这家人送到了医护人员稀少的达班诊所。数以万计的罗辛亚人被驱赶到了收容营地，但政府仅提供了这一个紧急医疗场所。虽然当时是下午4点，但是诊所的大门却关着。
“We became like crazy people, running everywhere,” the child’s grandmother, Daw Mu Mu Lwin, said. With no good choices left, the family returned to the pharmacy, where Parmin died, untreated, three and a half hours later, cradled in her grandmother’s arms.
女婴的祖母穆穆伦(Mu Mu Lwin)说，“我们就像是疯子一样，四处奔走。”这家人没有什么好选择，只能回到药店，三个半小时之后，得不到治疗的帕敏蜷在祖母的臂弯里，离开了人世。
The baby’s death was part of a rapidly expanding death toll and humanitarian crisis among the Rohingya, a Muslim minority that Myanmar’s Buddhist-led government has increasingly deprived of the most basic liberties and aid even as it trumpets its latest democratic reforms.
罗辛亚人中的死亡人数日益上升，人道危机也日益加剧，这名女婴的去世就是其中的一个缩影。作为穆斯林少数族群，罗辛亚族在由佛教徒领导的缅甸政府统治之下，由越来越多的基本自由受到了剥夺，尽管缅甸政府当下正在大肆宣扬国内最近在推行民主改革。
The crisis began with the government’s expulsion of Doctors Without Borders, one of the world’s premier humanitarian aid groups and the lifeline to health care for more than a million Rohingya increasingly denied those services by their own government. But the situation has grown more dire in recent weeks, as local Buddhist officials began severely restricting other humanitarian aid to the camps and the rest of Rakhine State, where tuberculosis, waterborne illnesses and malnutrition are endemic.
危机的开端是政府驱逐无国界医生。该组织是全球最重要的人道主义援助组织之一，也是为100多万罗辛亚人提供医疗服务的生命线，他们从自己的政府那里能够得到的医疗服务越来越少。然而，最近几周情况变得越发恶劣，原因是身为佛教徒的地方官员，开始严格限制向营地及若开邦其他地区提供其他人道主义援助的行为。在这些地区，肺结核、水源性疾病和营养不良蔓延甚广。
Some aid workers fear they are being kept away so there are fewer witnesses to rampant mistreatment and occasional bloodletting; the doctor’s group was expelled from Rakhine State after caring for victims of a violent assault on a Rohingya village that the government denies ever happened.
一些援助人员担忧，他们被挡在外边之后，能见证猖獗的虐待，以及时而出现的杀戮事件的目击者就更少了。无国界医生之所以被赶出了若开邦，原因就是他们在一座罗辛亚人聚居的村庄，救治了受到暴力袭击的受害者。政府否认说，那里根本没有发生过袭击。
The scope of the government crackdown is serious enough that it has inspired at least some rebukes from world leaders after near silence even as Myanmar’s government ignored violence by local Buddhists in 2012 that left hundreds of Muslims dead and drove many others into the displaced people’s camps. Loath to criticize the government as it moves the country away from a military dictatorship, international leaders also fear losing out in an international scramble for Myanmar’s business, and allegiance.
政府的压制严重到了一定的程度，至少促使全球领导人做出了一些的谴责。2012年，缅甸政府对当地佛教徒的暴力行径置若罔闻，当时的暴行导致数百名穆斯林丧命，还有许多人被迫逃进了收容营，但那时外界却几乎缄默不语。由于缅甸政府正在带领国家摆脱军事独裁，各国领导人都不情愿指责该国政府，而且他们还担忧，自己会在各国抢夺缅甸商业机遇和政府支持的大战中落败。
The Obama administration — which has been eager to keep strategically positioned Myanmar away from China — weighed in when the president admonished Myanmar’s leaders during his recent Asian tour, saying: “Myanmar won’t succeed if the Muslim population is oppressed.”
缅甸的位置具有战略意义，奥巴马政府一直想让缅甸远离中国。在最近出访亚洲时，奥巴马总统也表达了立场，他责备缅甸领导人说：“如果穆斯林人口遭到压迫，缅甸是无法取得成功的。”
And Tomas Ojea Quintana, who was the United Nations representative responsible for human rights in Myanmar until March, says the government’s obstruction of humanitarian aid “could amount to crimes against humanity.”
在今年3月前一直担任联合国驻缅甸人权特别报告员的托马斯·奥赫亚·金塔纳(Tomas Ojea Quintana)表示，缅甸政府对人道主义援助的阻挠“可能已经构成了反人类罪”。
Even those foreign aid workers who have been able to return to work in recent days, do so amid heightened security fears. State government officials recently allowed a radical Buddhist monk to preach for 10 days in the region, stirring up passions among Buddhists. After the visit by the monk, Ashin Wirahtu, radical Buddhists ransacked the facilities of more than a dozen aid and U.N. agencies, including the Red Cross, forcing more than 300 foreign aid workers to evacuate.
最近几天一些外国援助人员已经重返工作岗位，但他们面临的安全恐惧却加深了。若开邦政府官员最近批准了一名激进的佛教僧人在该邦宣教十天，这在佛教徒中引发了热烈的反响。这名僧人叫阿欣威拉杜，他访问该地区后，激进的佛教徒洗劫了数十家援助组织和联合国机构的驻地，其中包括红十字会(Red Cross)，300多名外国援助人员被迫疏散。
Two battalions of riot police officers, and a Myanmar Army division remained in their barracks.
事件发生时两个营的防暴警察和缅甸部队的一个师，都待在营地里并未出动。
With most foreign aid workers gone, it is impossible to accurately assess the number of deaths caused by the absence of lifesaving medical services; the government fails to keep or share health records. Aid workers, however, say they see the evidence of a building crisis.
由于大多数外国救援人员已经离开，现已无法正确估计有多少人因缺乏挽救生命的医疗服务而死；政府没有保存医疗记录，或者拒绝向外界提供。不过，救援人员表示，他们见到了危机加剧的证据。
“For sure the deaths are accelerating,” said Dr. Liviu Vedrasco, the head of the health care cluster for the World Health Organization in Myanmar.
世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)驻缅甸医疗机构总负责人利维乌·维德拉斯科(Liviu Vedrasco)博士说，“死亡人数肯定在快速增加”。
One indicator of the seriousness of the situation: Doctors Without Borders had sent about 400 emergency cases every month to local hospitals. In March, fewer than 20 people got referrals required by the government, according to W.H.O.
一项指标显示了局势的严重性，过去无国界医生每个月都会把大约400宗急诊病例转给当地医院。根据世界卫生组织的数据，在3月份，只有不到20人按政府的要求转院了。
Some of the only aid currently being provided is food rations from the World Food Program, which has been allowed to deliver rice and oil to the camps, a move some aid agencies say they believe is aimed at averting the bad publicity that could come with mass starvation. Even before the slashing of other aid, though, the World Health Organization reported that the food program was not sufficient to prevent malnutrition in the camps in Rakhine State or to stop the chronic acute malnutrition in northern areas of Rakhine State where many other Rohingya live.
难民们目前获得的仅有的援助是世界粮食计划署（World Food Program，简称WFP）提供的配给口粮。WFP获准向营地运送大米和食用油。一些援助机构的人员表示，他们认为，此举是为了防止发生饥荒的报道会丑化缅甸的形象。不过，即使在其他援助被大幅削减之前，世卫组织就曾通报说，粮食配给不足以防止若开邦的收容营内发生营养不良的情况，也不足以终结若开邦北部地区，长期存在的严重营养不良。若开邦北部也居住着许多罗辛亚人。
At a temporary clinic set up by wealthy out-of-state Muslims after Doctors Without Borders was banned, U Maung Maung Hla, a volunteer medical assistant, surveyed the women clustered on the floor in front of him, holding emaciated babies. The children, he said, needed more than the one-time ration of vitamins he was offering.
无国界医生被禁之后，来自若开邦外的富裕穆斯林建立了一家临时诊所。诊所的地上坐着一群妇女，手中都抱着消瘦的婴儿。担任医务助理的志愿者貌貌拉(Maung Maung Hla)正在询问面前的妇女。貌貌拉说，这些婴儿需要的维生素，比他提供的一次性剂量要多。
“These children are only being fed rice,” he said. “If these conditions continue, all the babies will die.”
“这些孩子只有米吃，”他说。“如果情况继续下去，所有的婴儿都会死。”
The Rohingya, denied citizenship, have long been outcasts in Myanmar, formerly called Burma. Many in the Buddhist-majority country believe the Rohingya should go to Bangladesh, even though many are not from there, or come from families that have been in Myanmar for generations.
在缅甸，罗辛亚人被剥夺了公民身份，处于社会边缘。在这个佛教徒为主的国度，不少人认为，罗辛亚人应该去孟加拉国，尽管很多人并非来自那里，也有许多人的家族世代都生活在缅甸。
The camps outside Sittwe, where more than 100,000 of the 1.3 million Rohingya in Myanmar live, were set up after the 2012 burning of the Rohingya neighborhoods in the town, a dilapidated trading center on the Bay of Bengal. Aid workers say the camps, where tight security prevents people from leaving, even to work, have become little more than sprawling prisons.
在缅甸的130万罗辛亚人中，有逾10万居住在实兑地区。这是一座破败的贸易中心城市，濒临孟加拉湾。郊外的营地则是在城里的罗辛亚社区在2012年焚毁后建立起来的。救援人员表示，营地戒备森严，不允许人外出，哪怕是出去工作，比一座四下延伸的大监狱好不了多少。
Until Doctors Without Borders was chased out of the region, some of the few people who got to leave the camps were the desperately ill, bound for the town’s hospital. Now, even few of the sick leave.
无国界医生被赶出这一地区之前，能离开营地的少数人中，有一些人病入膏肓，需要去城里的医院。现在，连病人也没几个能离开。
In response to the recent international criticism, the Myanmar government spokesman, Ye Htut, this week told a radio network that “there is no state-sanctioned discrimination against Muslims.” He also said there was no “outbreak of disease” in the camps because Myanmar’s Ministry of Health had stepped in to provide health care, sanitation and water.
面对近期来自国际社会的批评，缅甸政府发言人叶杜(Ye Htut)本周接受广播电台采访时称，“不存在国家准许的针对穆斯林的歧视。”他还表示，营地里没有出现“疾病大流行”，因为缅甸卫生部已经介入，提供了医疗、公共卫生服务和水源。
But Dr. Vedrasco of the World Health Organization noted that Myanmar was ranked second to last — just above Sierra Leone — in the organization’s list of medical services, and could not fulfill its promises.
不过，世卫组织的维德拉斯科博士指出，在该组织公布的医疗服务排名中，缅甸处于倒数第二，仅优于塞拉利昂，并不具备兑现诺言的能力。
In the camps, the deaths often occur behind closed doors, in the cramped rooms of the bamboo rowhouses built by the United Nations. Other people die in the small mom-and-pop pharmacies where desperate families like Parmin’s go as a last resort.
在营地里，死亡往往降临在禁闭的门后，发生在联合国建造的竹制排屋中，拥挤的房间里。还有人在家庭经营的小药店里离世，也就是帕敏这样的无助家庭做最后尝试的地方。
Some of the most desperate cases are women with complicated pregnancies. Prenatal care is scarce, resulting in high numbers of precarious births.
其中一些最绝望的情形发生在孕情复杂的女性身上。这里产前护理奇缺，导致生产时险情频发。
These days, most pregnant women are reluctant to go to Sittwe General Hospital until it is too late, put off by the elaborate series of permissions needed, and by fear. As violence has increased, many Rohingya believe they will never emerge from the 14-bed ward set aside for them that used to be the prison ward.
现如今，多数孕妇宁可延误病情也不愿去实兑全科医院(Sittwe General Hospital)。阻挠她们的是所需的一系列复杂许可，还有恐惧感。随着暴力活动的加剧，许多罗辛亚人相信，进了那个专给他们准备、由牢房改成的14床病房，就再也出不来了。
Zhara Katu, 20, was one of many too frightened to go to the hospital. In pain and pregnant with twins, she instead chose the government-run Dapaing clinic. A Burmese doctor determined the babies had died and recommended she go to the Sittwe hospital for an urgent operation.
今年20岁的扎拉·卡图(Zhara Katu)就属于这种害怕到不敢去医院的病人。她怀着双胞胎，身体不适，却选择了政府设立的达班诊所。一名缅族医生诊断，两个孩子已胎死腹中，建议她去实兑全科医院进行紧急手术。
She went home instead.
可她却回了家。
Two days later, she returned to the clinic but was so ill, she was transferred to the hospital. Her father, Abdullah Mi, a scrawny, weather-beaten man, was terrified. “I worry that the Rakhine will kill her there,” he said.
两天后，她再次来到这家诊所，但病情太过严重，于是被转去了实兑的医院。她骨瘦如柴、饱经风霜的父亲阿卜杜拉·米(Abdullah Mi)心中充满了恐惧。“我怕若开人会在那里把她杀了，”他说。
His daughter survived the procedure to remove the babies, but died in the hospital a week later of maternal sepsis, a very serious condition that Dr. Vedrasco said could have been alleviated with earlier care.
他的女儿挺过了处理死胎的手术，但一周后因产后败血症而在医院离世。维德拉斯科博士称，这种病非常严重，但及早治疗的话本可以得到缓解。
By the last week of April, some aid workers for international agencies were trickling back to the camps, but reported facing conditions far less than the “return to normalcy” declared by the national Ministry of Home Affairs.
到了4月份的最后一周，来自国际机构的一些救援人员在缓慢地回到营地。然而，他们描述的眼前情景，远逊于缅甸内政部宣称的“回归正常”。
A new emergency coordinating committee established to oversee foreign assistance was dominated by two Rakhine Buddhist community leaders who demanded approval rights over their aid operations, a memo from the aid workers to the United Nations said.
一家新的应急协调委员会建立了起来，负责管理外国的援助。不过，根据联合国救援人员所写的一份备忘录，该委员会由两名若开邦佛教界领袖把持，而他们要求援助行动要经过他们的批准。