YANGON, Myanmar — After struggling against the Burmese military for 2 1/2 decades, the opposition party of the Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi said Monday that it was confident of a sweeping victory in the country's landmark nationwide elections.
缅甸仰光——在与缅甸军方进行了25年的斗争之后，本周一，诺贝尔和平奖得主昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)领导的反对党表示，在这次具有里程碑意义的全国性选举中，他们有信心大获全胜。
Although official results of Sunday's election trickled in for only a handful of districts, the potential electoral success by Suu Kyi's political movement underlined the undying appeal of a woman who sacrificed her family, her health and 15 years of her life as a political prisoner to oppose dictatorship in Myanmar.
虽然仅有有限几个地区报告了上周日选举的正式结果，但是昂山素季的政党在选举中获胜的可能性，突显了这名女性持久的魅力。她作为缅甸独裁统治时期的政治犯，牺牲了自己的家庭、健康，以及15年的时光。
But it also portends a troubled and uncertain transition for Myanmar, and a dilemma for the military-backed government that until now has tried to manage the transition away from isolation and dictatorship on its own terms.
但是，对于缅甸来说，这也预示着要经历一个困难重重的、不确定的过渡过程。对军方支持的政府来说，过渡意味着一个两难境地。因为迄今为止，这个政府也在试图按自己的方式走出孤立和独裁。
“Nationwide, we got over 70 percent,” said U Win Htein, a senior member of Suu Kyi's party. He cautioned that the results were not yet official, but added, “We can call this a landslide victory.”
“从全国范围来看，我们赢得了70%以上的票数，”昂山素季政党的高级成员温丁(U Win Htein)说。他警告说这还不是正式结果，但也表示，“我们可以把这称为压倒性的胜利。”
If the results of Sunday's election are respected by the current government and the military, it will be the first time in more than five decades that voters in Myanmar have been able to choose their leaders freely.
如果周日的大选结果能得到现政府和军方的尊重，那么这将是五十多年以来，缅甸选民第一次能够自由地选择国家领导人。
Landslide was the term used to describe the outcome the last time Myanmar had a free election, a quarter of a century ago, when Suu Kyi led democratic forces to a victory over the military's proxies, winning 80 percent of the seats in parliament.
缅甸上次自由选举发生在四分之一个世纪前，昂山素季领导的民主派取得了“压倒性”的胜利，击败了军方支持的对手，赢得了议会80%的席位。
The military's answer then was to cancel the elections, lock up its opponents, including Suu Kyi, and impose a sort of isolated dark age for the country just as its neighbors were riding the Asian economic miracle to greater prosperity.
军方随后的对策就是取消选举，关押对手，其中包括昂山素季。该国进入了一个孤立的黑暗时代，而邻国却在亚洲经济奇迹中走向繁荣。
This time seems different, although how different remains to be seen. Unlike in 1990, Myanmar, the former British colony once known as Burma, is increasingly engaged with the world, including with the United States, which has invested considerable political capital and closely watched the unfolding transition toward democracy.
这一次似乎有所不同，尽管到底有多么不同还有待观察。与1990年不同的是，它正越来越多地与世界接轨，也包括与美国接轨。美国向该国做出了大量的政治投入，密切关注着它向民主过渡的进程。
The U.S. Embassy had teams of observers in every state and region of the country on Sunday. In a carefully worded congratulatory statement, Secretary of State John Kerry warned that “a peaceful post-election period is crucial for stability” and for the political transition.
上周日，美国大使馆在缅甸的每一个省份和地区都安排了观察员。国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在一份措辞谨慎的声明中表示了祝贺，同时也警告说，要保持稳定，实现政治过渡，关键是在“选举之后要有一段和平时期”。
While such warnings may not have been far from the surface, the mood across Yangon and other parts of the country was electric. Even a torrential downpour Monday could not bring down the spirits of a crowd of opposition supporters who cheered and sang as they watched the results on a giant TV screen outside the party's headquarters here.
尽管这番告诫的涵义可能颇为明显，但仰光和全国各地氛热烈。周一，在反对党位于这里的总部外面，支持该党的人群一边在巨大的电视屏幕上观看结果，一边欢呼歌唱，就连倾盆大雨也未能影响他们的情绪。
“I haven't been able to eat anything since yesterday because I'm so happy,” said one supporter, Than Than Htay. “This is going to change everything in our country.”
“我从昨天就吃不下东西，因为太高兴了，”一个名叫申申泰(Than Than Htay)的支持者说。“这将改变我们国家的方方面面。”
Official results were fragmentary but what news there was was not good for the ruling Union Solidarity and Development Party.
官方结果还不完整，但不管是什么消息，都对执政的联邦巩固与发展党(Union Solidarity and Development Party)不利。
By the end of the day Monday, the election commission had announced the votes for only 54 of the 644 seats in parliament. The opposition National League for Democracy won 49 of them.
到周一结束时，选举委员会只宣布了议会644个席位中54席的得票数。反对党全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)赢得了其中49席。
And a number of powerful members of the military establishment conceded defeat, including former senior military officers who were among the most prominent figures in the quasi-civilian government that has ruled since 2011.
军方权力集团一些有权势的成员承认败选，其中包括一些前高级军官。这些人在2011年以来统治缅甸的准平民政府中，也属于最显赫的人物。
Thura Shwe Mann, the speaker of the lower house of parliament and a former general, lost his seat as did a host of high-profile ministers, almost all of them former generals.
和众多高调的部长一样，议会下院议长、前将领瑞曼(Thura Shwe Mann)失去了自己的席位。这些部长几乎都曾是将领。
“Nationwide, we won in some parts, and we lost in some parts,” U Htay Oo, the chairman of the ruling party, was quoted as saying in the Burmese news media on Monday. “But we had a greater share of losses.”
“从全国来说，我们在一些地方赢了，在一些地方输了，”缅甸新闻媒体周一援引执政党主席泰乌(U Htay Oo)的话说。“但输的比赢得多。”
He, too, lost his seat.
他也失去了自己的席位。