BANGKOK — Nearly 750,000 people, most of them members of a Muslim minority in one of the poorest parts of Myanmar, have been deprived of most medical services since the government banned the operations of Doctors Without Borders, the international health care organization and the main provider of medical care in the region.
曼谷——自从缅甸政府禁止国际医疗组织无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)在当地活动之后，该国已有将近75万人失去了大部分的医疗服务。这些人居住在缅甸最贫困的地区之一，大多属于一个穆斯林少数民族，无国界医生是那里主要的医疗服务机构。
The government ordered a halt to the work of Doctors Without Borders two weeks ago after some officials accused the group of favoring the Muslims, members of the Rohingya ethnic group, over a rival group, Rakhine Buddhists.
两周前，政府要求无国界医生停止工作，原因是一些官员指责该组织倾向于穆斯林，即当地的罗兴亚族(Rohingya)，而不是与之冲突的另一个族群——信仰佛教的若开族(Rakhine)。
Already, anecdotal evidence and medical estimates show that about 150 of the most vulnerable have died since Feb. 28, more than 20 of them pregnant women facing life-threatening deliveries, medical professionals said. Doctors Without Borders had been the only way for pregnant women facing difficult deliveries to get a referral to a government hospital, they said.
医务人员透露，口耳相传的讲述和医务人员的估计显示，自从2月28日以来，已经有大约150名病情最危急的患者死去，其中有超过20人是分娩时出现生命危险的孕妇。他们表示，难产的孕妇只有通过无国界医生才能转到政府经营的医院。
At the time of the order, the government said it was suspending the group’s operations in Rakhine State in the far north, but it has offered no time frame for when services might be resumed. The deputy director general of the Ministry of Health, Dr. Soe Lwin Nyein, said in a statement that his department would manage the health needs of the “whole community.” A spokesman for President Thein Sein, Ye Htut, said the government dispatched an emergency response team with eight ambulances after the Doctors Without Borders clinics were closed.
命令下达时，政府表示将暂停该组织在北部若开邦的运作，但并没有提到医疗服务什么时候才能恢复。卫生部副部长索伦年(Soe Lwin Nyein)博士在一份声明中说，他的部门会管理“整个社区”的医疗需求。缅甸总统登盛(Thein Sein)的一位发言人叶杜(Ye Htut)表示，在无国界医生的诊所关闭后，政府派遣了一个配备有八辆救护车的紧急应对小组。
Myanmar’s health services are among the most rudimentary in Asia, and with severe government restrictions on movement that prevent Muslims from seeking medical help outside their villages in Rakhine State, the impact of the shutdown will be severe, medical professionals said.
医务人员表示，缅甸的医疗服务水平几乎是亚洲最落后的，由于政府对人员的行动有限制，致使若开邦的穆斯林无法离开自己的村子外出求医，关闭诊所会产生严重的影响。
Doctors Without Borders was by far the biggest health provider in the northern part of Rakhine around the townships of Maungdaw and Buthidaung, serving about 500,000 people, most of them Rohingya, they said. An additional 200,000 people, many of them Rohingya in displaced camps around the state capital, Sittwe, had access to the group’s services.
他们透露，无国界医生是若开邦北部，貌夺(Maungdaw)和布迪当(Buthidaung)周边最大的医疗机构，为大约50万人提供服务，其中多数是罗兴亚人。另外20万人也能得到这个团体的服务，其中许多是州首府实兑(Sittwe)周边难民营中的罗兴亚人。
In Aung Mingla, a Muslim neighborhood in Sittwe, patients with tuberculosis, a common disease in the area, said they were down to their last supplies of medicine. The Rohingya who live in Aung Mingla are prevented from leaving the district by barbed-wire security posts and police officers.
在实兑的一个穆斯林社区昂明拉(Aung Mingla)，结核病患者表示他们的药品马上就会用尽，结核病是这个地区的常见病。昂明拉周围有架着铁丝网的治安岗哨，有警察把守，阻止罗兴亚人离开这个社区。
“Since Doctors Without Borders is not in Rakhine, I don’t know who will provide medicine when my supply runs out in three months,” said one patient, Muklan, 30, who like many people in Myanmar goes by a single name. “I hope Doctors can come back as soon as possible.”
“若开邦没有了无国界医生，我不知道再过三个月我的药用完后，谁还会提供药品，”今年30岁的患者穆兰(Muklan)说。“我希望医生们能尽快回来。”像很多缅甸人一样，穆兰只有名没有姓。
Another Rohingya man, Shafiul, who worked for Doctors Without Borders in Aung Mingla, said he was concerned for his patients with tuberculosis, malaria and H.I.V. “These patients have been getting help from Doctors Without Borders for years,” he said.
另外一名罗兴亚男子沙菲(Shafiul)曾在昂明拉为无国界医生工作过。他说，他很担心患有结核病、疟疾和艾滋病的患者。他说，“这些患者接受无国界医生的帮助已经有很多年了。”
In northern Rakhine State, where Doctors Without Borders had run five permanent clinics and 30 mobile ones, about 20 percent of children are acutely malnourished, medical professionals said. An intensive feeding center for those patients was shuttered as part of the government’s directive.
无国界医生在若开邦北部有五家固定诊所，30个流动诊所。医务人员表示，那里有20%的儿童严重营养不良。面向这些患者的一个加护营养中心，也作为政府指令的一部分被关闭了。
For the most part, Western donors and the United Nations say they are reluctant to antagonize the government of Myanmar, which has started along the path of economic and political reform. The donors have chosen quiet diplomacy over outspoken criticism of the government’s policies toward the Rohingya.
西方捐助国和联合国表示，它们多数时候不愿意惹恼已经开启经济和政治改革进程的缅甸政府。对于缅甸政府的罗兴亚人政策，捐助国选择静悄悄地采取外交手段，而不是直言不讳地提出批评。
But the action against Doctors Without Borders raised some public alarm.
然而针对无国界医生采取的举动，却引起了公开的警惕。
“We are extremely concerned about the situation,” said Mark Cutts, the head of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs in Myanmar. “We are in intense discussion with the government in a way that will allow operations to resume as soon as possible.”
“我们对这种局面十分关切，”联合国人道主义协调厅(Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs)驻在缅甸的负责人马克·卡茨(Mark Cutts)说。“我们正在与政府展开紧张的讨论，从而使他们的工作尽可能快地恢复。”
The deputy health director, Dr. Soe Lwin Nyein, said the government would accept supplies of medicine for tuberculosis and H.I.V. from Doctors Without Borders. But how these supplies will be distributed remains unclear. Negotiations are underway with the government over the distribution, Western officials said.
卫生部副部长索伦年说，政府会接受无国界医生提供的结核病和抗艾滋病药物。然而提供的药物会如何分配仍不清楚。西方官员表示，正在与政府就药品的分配进行谈判。
Other international organizations, including the International Committee of the Red Cross, which supports government health centers around the towns of Sittwe and Mrauk U, have been allowed to continue operations in Rakhine. But Doctors Without Borders was by far the largest health provider.
援助实兑和妙乌(Mrauk U)两地政府医疗中心的其他国际组织获准继续在若开邦运营，其中包括了红十字国际委员会(International Committee of the Red Cross)。但无国界医生是目前最大的医疗服务机构，规模远超其他组织。