YANGON, Myanmar — Amid the mold-covered facades of downtown Yangon are police stations, a five-story building housing the Special Branch state security agency and government offices where citizens are required to register out-of-town houseguests.
缅甸仰光——在仰光市中心，很多大楼的外墙都长出了霉菌，其中包括警察局，以及一座五层的小楼。在那座小楼里办公的机关有国家安全机构“特别支队”(Special Branch)，还有一些要求民众登记家中的外来访客的政府部门。
They are all vestiges of a police state in Myanmar that has yet to be fully dismantled. And all these government offices will be outside the control of a new administration led by the party of Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace laureate whose organization achieved an apparently lopsided triumph in landmark elections Sunday.
它们都是缅甸尚未彻底废除的警察国家制度遗留下的残迹。在周日具有里程碑意义的选举中，诺贝尔和平奖得主昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)所属的政党似乎取得了压倒性的胜利。她领导的政党将组建新一届政府，但上述所有机构都不受新政府的掌控。
With official vote tallies seeming to confirm the scope of the victory, Myanmar is electrified by the prospect of the long-suffering democracy movement wresting control of parliament and the executive branch from a military establishment that has ruled in one way or another for the past five decades.
官方计票结果似乎证实了这场胜利的规模。长期困顿的民主运动得以继续前进，这让整个国家激动万分。民主运动一直在与军方争夺议会和行政体系的控制权，而在过去50年里，军方一直在以这样或那样的方式统治缅甸。
Yet under the terms of the constitution drawn up by the generals, a large and powerful part of the bureaucracy will remain under the direct control of the military, including everything from passport issuance to a domestic security apparatus that spies on Myanmar citizens.
但根据军方将领起草的宪法条款，官僚体制中势力很强、规模很大的一个部分，仍将直接由军方控制，包括负责护照发放的机构，也包括监视缅甸民众的国内安全机构等等。
Thant Myint-U, a historian who has advised the government, called the victory for the opposition a “crushing win.” But he cautioned that Suu Kyi would be forced into a fragile power-sharing arrangement with the military, which kept her under house arrest for the better part of two decades.
曾担任过政府顾问的历史学者丹敏-吴(Thant Myint-U)称，反对派的胜利是“压倒性的胜利”。但他告诫称，昂山素季会被迫与军方达成脆弱的权力分享协议。过去二十年的大部分时间里，军方一直让她处在软禁状态。
“This was not an election of a government,” Thant Myint-U said. “It was an election for a spot in a shared government with the army.”
“这不是选举政府，”丹敏-吴说。“而是在与军方分享权力的政府当中，选举一个职位。”
Myanmar's military has always been a highly politicized institution. But its role extends well beyond just politics. The military has business interests in jade and ruby mines, a brewery, bus lines, tobacco, textiles and banks. Until now the military's business empire has largely been beyond government scrutiny.
缅甸军方向来是一支高度政治化的势力。但它涉足的领域却远不止政治。翡翠和红宝石矿、啤酒厂、公共汽车线路、烟草、纺织业和银行业，均有军方的商业利益。直到现在，军方的商业帝国在很大程度上都不在政府的监管范围内。
Years of military rule also created a vast centralized bureaucracy across the country that is often still led by former military officers. Known as the General Administration Department, it is what Richard Horsey, a political consultant and former U.N. official in Myanmar, calls the “backbone of all local administration.”
长年的军方统治也在全国各地造就了一个巨大的中央集权官僚体系，而领导这个体系的，常常还是以前的军官。政治顾问、前联合国驻缅甸官员理查德·霍西(Richard Horsey)形容，称作总行政署(General Administration Department)的官僚机构，是“所有地方行政的主干”。
Like the country's entire police force, the General Administration Department falls under the Home Ministry, one of three ministries controlled by the military. The other two are defense and border affairs.
和该国的整个警察部队一样，总行政署隶属于内政部(Home Ministry)。内政部是军方控制的三大部委之一，另外两个分别负责国防和边境事务。
Horsey says the military's control over such a crucial part of the administration will require Suu Kyi to collaborate with the military.
霍西表示，军方控制着政府中如此关键的机构，这将要求昂山素季与其合作。
“It will be impossible to administer the country without having the Home Ministry on their side, and that means ultimately the commander in chief of the military,” he said.
“不可能在没有内政部支持的情况下治理国家，归根结底就是要军方总司令的支持，”他说。
But the degree to which Suu Kyi is willing to compromise with her former captors is unclear.
但尚不清楚昂山素季愿意向曾经软禁过她的人做出何种程度的妥协。
During weeks of campaigning she spoke often about the importance of reconciliation.
在长达数周的竞选期间，她常常提及和解的重要性。
“I do not believe in persecution and revenge,” she said last week.
“我不相信迫害和报复，”她上周说。
But she also has challenged the military's political role, often criticizing a provision in the constitution that allocates to the military one quarter of the seats in parliament. And she says she plans to circumvent the ban on her becoming president that the generals wrote into the constitution.
但她也常常批评宪法中的一个条款，挑战军方的政治角色。该条款将议会四分之一的席位分配给了军方。她还表示，自己打算规避由军方将领写进宪法，意在阻止她担任总统的一条禁令。
In some of her strongest comments on this potential source of friction, Suu Kyi said Tuesday that as head of the party with a parliamentary majority, she would be empowered to pick who will be president, whom she described as subservient to her.
针对这个可能会引起摩擦的问题，昂山素季有过一些极为强硬的表态。就在周二，她表示作为议会多数党的领袖，她有权挑选由谁出任总统，并称这个人应该服从于她。
“I make all the decisions because I am the leader of the winning party,” she said in an interview with Channel NewsAsia. “And the president will be one whom we will choose just to meet the requirements of the constitution.”
“所有决定都将由我来做，因为我是获胜党的领导人，”她在接受亚洲新闻台(Channel NewsAsia)的采访时说。“我们会选一个符合宪法要求的人当总统。”
“The president will be told exactly what he can do,” she said.
“会有人告诉总统，他具体能做什么，”她说。
Horsey warned that the relationship between Suu Kyi and the generals was critical to a functioning government.
霍西警告称，昂山素季和军方将领的关系，对于政府的运转至关重要。
“If they get off on the wrong foot and it's confrontational, there's plenty of room for things to go wrong,” he said.
“如果一开始就不顺利、相互对抗，那么有很多地方都可能出问题，”他说。
The jubilation of Suu Kyi's political movement has been matched by the shock of the former generals at the breadth of their defeat.
昂山素季领导的政治运动异常喜悦，而大面积的惨败也让前军方将领异常震惊。
The Irrawaddy, a Myanmar news site, reported Tuesday that nearly all candidates who had served in the cabinet of President Thein Sein were defeated. Other prominent losses from the ruling party included the speaker of the lower house of parliament and the chairman of the party. Even in a district in the capital, Naypyidaw, that is heavily populated with soldiers, a former general and defense minister lost to a poet from Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy.
缅甸新闻网站伊洛瓦底(Irrawaddy)周二报道，在登盛(Thein Sein)总统的内阁任过职的候选人几乎都失败了。执政党中其他知名的败选人物包括议会下院议长和党主席。在缅甸首都内比都的一个选区，居民中有许多士兵，但即便是在这里，曾任军方将领的国防部长，也败给了昂山素季的政党全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)的一位诗人。
Out of 657 parliament seats in contention, the National League for Democracy had been officially declared the winner of 107 seats, compared with seven for the ruling party.
在各方争夺的657个议席中，全国民主联盟已正式宣布赢得了107席，相比之下执政党只获得了7席。
Thant Myint-U said the victory had raised enormous expectations for Suu Kyi to clean up corruption and improve the effectiveness of long-neglected and underfunded government services. But he cautioned that lack of direct control over institutions as crucial as the police, which itself is a focal point of corruption, could make that job much more difficult for Suu Kyi.
丹敏-吴表示，胜利让人们对昂山素季充满期待，希望她能肃清腐败，并提高长期不被重视且缺乏资金的公共服务的效率。但他告诫称，缺乏对像警察这么关键的力量的直接控制，可能会增加昂山素季开展这项工作的难度。警察本身就是腐败问题的一个焦点。
“Ex-generals who knew the system well had trouble changing it,” he said. “It's going to be even more difficult for outsiders.”
“非常了解这个制度的前将领们都难以改变这种局面，”他说。“外来者会更难。”