BANGKOK — Myanmar’s president said Thursday that he backed changing the country’s constitution to allow “any citizen” to become president, an apparent reference to Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Prize-winning democracy advocate whose political ambitions have been thwarted for decades by the military.
曼谷——周四，缅甸总统表示自己支持修改该国宪法，允许“任何公民”成为总统，这里明显指的是曾获诺贝尔奖的民主倡导人士昂山素季(Daw Aung San Suu Kyi)，数十年来，昂山素季的政治抱负一直遭到军方的阻碍。
In his most explicit remarks on the issue to date, President Thein Sein said it would be “healthy” to amend the Constitution “from time to time to address the national, economic and social needs of our society.” He added that he “would not want restrictions being imposed on the right of any citizen to become the leader of the country.”
缅甸总统登盛(Thein Sein)发表了他在这个问题上迄今最为明确的言论，称“为了满足我们的国家、经济及社会需求”，“时不时地”修改宪法(Constitution)是“有益的”。他还表示，他“不希望限制任何公民成为国家领导人的权利”。
The country’s Constitution, which was written by a now defunct military junta, specifically bars candidates for Myanmar’s presidency and vice presidency from having close family members who “owe allegiance to a foreign power” — a provision many analysts say was written to block the popular Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi from power. Her two sons with her British husband were born in Britain and live outside Myanmar, also known as Burma.
缅甸现行宪法由现已不存在的军政府制定，明确禁止缅甸总统及副总统候选人有“效忠外国势力”的近亲。很多分析人士表示，上述规定是为了阻止广受欢迎的昂山素季执政。她与英国籍丈夫养育的两个儿子出生在英国，并且没有在缅甸生活。
Mr. Thein Sein is a former general and his comments, made in a speech on national television and reprinted in the Burmese state news media on Thursday, carry weight across Burmese society. But any constitutional changes need the support of more than 75 percent of the members of Parliament, and Mr. Thein Sein’s leverage over the legislature is seen as limited.
登盛曾是一名将军。上述言论出现在他周四通过国家电视台发表的讲话当中，并且得到缅甸官方新闻媒体的转载，对整个缅甸社会产生了影响。但修宪需要获得超过75%的议会成员的支持，与此同时，人们认为登盛对立法机构的影响力是有限的。
The majority party includes at least one powerful adversary for the presidency who would have no apparent interest in changing the constitution for Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s benefit. National elections are scheduled for late next year.
多数党至少有一名有力的总统竞选对手，此人似乎无意为了昂山素季的利益修宪。全国大选将于明年年末举行。
The president’s remarks come as the country has begun grappling with the deadlock over Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s possible candidacy that has been looming over the future of the fragile democracy that emerged from a long-ruling military junta in 2011.
总统发表上述言论时，缅甸已经开始努力应对有关昂山素季候选资格的僵局，此事关系到缅甸脆弱的民主制度的未来。2011年，缅甸终结了军政府的长期统治，开始走上民主道路。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi and her allies have said they were considering a boycott of the 2015 elections if the law that effectively prevents her from running for the presidency is not changed.
昂山素季和她的盟友曾表示，如果有效阻止她参选总统的法律得不到改变，他们将考虑联合抵制2015年的选举。
Letting her run would be construed by some as a sign to the outside world, which has begun to invest heavily in Myanmar, that democratic changes are moving forward. She has repeatedly said she would run if allowed.
允许昂山素季参选可能会被一些人解读为向外部世界释放的一个信号，表明民主变革正在向前发展。目前，大量外资已经开始涌入缅甸。昂山素季多次表示，如果获得允许，她将参加竞选。
Mr. Thein Sein’s comments come after the largest political party in the country, the Union Solidarity and Development Party, offered a list of proposed amendments to the Constitution.
登盛发表评论前，缅甸最大的政党联邦巩固与发展党(Union Solidarity and Development Party)提交了一份修宪提案。
Top lawmakers from the party, which is led by senior military officers from the country’s former junta, proposed a minor change to the constitutional qualifications for president: spouses of a candidate’s children would not need to have Burmese citizenship. But the lawmakers retained the clause saying that the children must be Burmese citizens.
联邦巩固与发展党的领导人是一些来自前军政府的高级军官。该党高层议员提议对宪法规定的总统候选人资格限制进行轻微改动，即候选人子女的配偶无需拥有缅甸国籍。不过，议员们保留了候选人子女本人必须有缅甸国籍的条款。
U Khin Maung Htoo, a member of Parliament for the party, said in order for Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi to qualify for president, “her two sons must apply for Burmese citizenship and give up foreign citizenship.”
该党议员金貌图(U Khin Maung Htoo)说，昂山素季要想取得总统竞选资格，“她的两个儿子必须申请缅甸国籍，放弃外国国籍。”
According to Derek Tonkin, a former British diplomat who is the chairman of Network Myanmar, which monitors politics in the country, Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s two sons, Kim and Alexander, once held Myanmar nationality but their citizenship was revoked by the junta. Mr. Tonkin said that the two sons would probably be reluctant to renounce their foreign citizenship.
据德雷克·汤金(Derek Tonkin)透露，昂山素季的儿子金(Kim)和亚历山大(Alexander)曾持有缅甸国籍，但他们的国籍被军政府取消了。汤金表示，她的两个儿子多半不愿意放弃外国国籍。汤金曾是英国外交官，目前在监视缅甸政坛动向的“缅甸网络”(Network Myanmar)担任主席。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, who is recovering from surgery to her foot, indicated Thursday that she considered the suggested change inadequate. In remarks broadcast on Radio Free Asia, she said the nationality of adult children was not relevant and that the requirement “does not fit with democratic values.”
昂山素季刚刚做了足部手术，目前正在恢复。她于周四暗示，她认为前述修宪提议不够充分。在自由亚洲电台(Radio Free Asia)播放的评论中，她说，成人子女的国籍与此事无关，相关要求“不符合民主价值观”。
“They are adults,” she said. “Parents don’t have responsibility for them.”
她说，“他们是成人。父母不能替他们负责。”
Mr. Thein Sein did not refer to the majority party’s proposals in his own remarks, so it was unclear if he was pushing the party to go further. It also remains unclear if he will run for a second term.
登盛没有在讲话中提及多数党的提案，所以，目前尚不清楚他是否在推动该党采取进一步措施。同样不清楚的是，他是否会竞选连任。
All changes to the Constitution would require the assent of the country’s still-powerful military. Because amending the Constitution requires more than 75 percent approval of the Parliament, the military, which is allotted 25 percent of the seats, has an effective veto.
对宪法的所有改动都需要得到军方的认可，后者依然大权在握。由于修宪必须获得四分之三以上议员的同意，握有四分之一议席配额的军方拥有有效的否决权。
Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a former political prisoner who was awarded the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize for her defiance of military rule, was blocked from contesting elections in 1990 on the grounds of receiving help from foreigners.
昂山素季曾是政治犯，因反抗军方统治而在1991年获得诺贝尔和平奖。当局曾禁止昂山素季参加1990年的选举，理由是她接受了外国人的帮助。
In April 2012, she was allowed to run for the Myanmar Parliament and won, a major milestone in Myanmar’s transition from military dictatorship to democracy.
2012年4月，她获准参与缅甸议会竞选并获胜，这是缅甸从军事独裁国家向民主国家过渡的一个重要里程碑。