NAYPYIDAW, Myanmar — Three years after Myanmar’s ruling generals shed their uniforms and propelled the country on an ambitious journey toward democracy, security forces are back on the streets of the former military dictatorship.
缅甸内比都——三年前，缅甸将领们脱下军装，推动国家走上雄心勃勃的民主化道路。现如今，安全部队却重返街头，恢复了前军事独裁时代的做法。
A rampage by radical Buddhists in the sprawling city of Mandalay that left two people dead this week spurred the authorities to declare a nighttime curfew, dispatch hundreds of riot police officers and erect razor wire around the Muslim neighborhoods that were attacked.
在规模不断扩张的城市曼德勒，极端佛教徒引发的暴行上周导致两人死亡。这促使当局宣布宵禁，派遣了数百名防暴警察，并在遇袭的穆斯林社区周边拉设了铁丝网。
The violence raised fears that the rioting that has hit provincial towns in the past two years might now spill over into Myanmar’s most populous and important cities.
暴力活动使人担忧，过去两年里冲击小城的骚乱，现在可能会扩散到缅甸人口最多及最重要的城市。
It was also yet another in a string of disappointments that have worn away at the euphoria that greeted the end of five dark decades of military rule. Among the most worrisome setbacks are the attacks in western Myanmar on an ethnic minority called the Rohingya, an apparent rollback of some press freedoms and tepid commitments by foreign investors who are crucial to building the nation’s impoverished economy.
一连串的失望，消磨了终结军政府五十年黑暗统治所带来的喜悦，而此次暴行不过是又一起此类事件。最让人忧心的逆流包括：在缅甸西部针对名为罗辛亚人的少数民族的攻击；新闻自由的明显倒退；以及对改善缅甸的贫困经济至关重要的外国投资者不冷不热的投资承诺。
Both critics and supporters of the government agree that changes over the past three years have made Myanmar profoundly more open and free than the cloistered, brutally repressive country that it was under military rule.
政府的批评者和支持者均承认，过去三年里的改革，让军政府统治时期那个受到残酷压迫的与世隔绝的国家变得要开放和自由多了。
But whereas two years ago the government was tightly focused on writing a foreign investment law, releasing political prisoners and abolishing strict censorship, critics say religious politicking is both distracting leaders from reforms and poisoning some of the good will that President Thein Sein, a former general, had when he began the liberalization effort in 2011.
两年前，政府因制定外国投资法律、释放政治犯及废除严格的审查制度而成为外界关注焦点。然而，批评者表示，宗教政治纷争分散了领导人的改革精力，破坏了前军方将领、现任总统登盛（Thein Sein，又译吴登盛）在2011年启动民主化进程时的良好意愿。
One of the highest-profile proposals of his administration this year is a series of divisive measures to “protect” Buddhism that have drawn outrage from interfaith groups. The proposed laws — pushed by a radical Buddhist movement blamed by many for instigating violence against Muslims — would restrict religious conversions and require women to obtain permission before marrying outside their religion.
今年，登盛政府推出的最高调的提案中包括一系列“保护”佛教的措施，引发了严重分歧，并已招致各大宗教团体的反对。这些法律提案将限制宗教对话，并要求女性在和不同宗教的男性婚配前，必须征得批准。推动提案的是一个极端的佛教运动团体，因煽动对穆斯林施暴而受到许多人的指责。
“Liberalization is over,” said Daw Zin Mar Aung, a women’s rights activist who has received death threats for her opposition to the bills. “Why would the president submit such radical laws?”
女权活动人士辛玛昂(Daw Zin Mar Aung)说，“自由化结束了。总统怎么会提交如此极端的法律提案？”由于反对提案，她接到了死亡威胁。
Ms. Zin Mar Aung, who like many civic leaders in the country is a former political prisoner, accuses the government of building a new national identity on the basis of nationalism and Buddhist chauvinism rather than a multicultural democracy.
和本国的许多民权领袖一样，辛玛昂曾是一名政治犯。她指责，政府在构建新的国家认同的时候，倚仗的基础是民族主义和佛教沙文主义，而非包容多元文化的民主制度。
The backsliding on press freedoms has been directly related, at least in one case, to the Buddhist-Muslim violence that has led to more than 250 deaths. In that case, a correspondent for Time magazine was barred from the country after writing an article on the radical Buddhist movement.
至少在一次事件里，新闻自由的倒退直接涉及佛教和穆斯林之间的暴力冲突。此类冲突已导致逾250人丧生。那一次，《时代》周刊(Time)的一名记者撰写了一篇关于极端佛教运动的报道，之后便被禁止入境。
Foreign journalists have seen the duration of their visas cut, and in February, journalists were jailed under a British colonial law, the State Secrets Act, for reporting on what they claimed was a chemical weapons facility.
外国记者的签证期限被缩短。此外，今年2月，当局根据英国殖民时代的《国家机密法》(State Secrets Act)，把一些记者关进了监狱，原因是这些人报道了他们声称藏有化学武器的设施。
David Scott Mathieson, a Myanmar expert with Human Rights Watch, said the police last month “reverted to their old intimidation tactics” when they called in journalists and editors of several publications for questioning. The reason given was concern over potential money laundering, “but more obviously it was a subtle form of pressure to curb the confidence of the Burmese media,” Mr. Mathieson said.
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)缅甸事务专家戴维·斯科特·马西森(David Scott Mathieson)表示，警方上个月“重新诉诸老一套的恐吓战术”，把几家刊物的记者和编辑召去盘问。他们给出的理由是担心可能存在洗钱活动，“不过，更明显的是，这是一种无形的压力，为的是打压缅甸媒体的信心，”马西森说。
In an attempt to explain what many call a “pause” in reforms, Romain Caillaud, the managing director in Myanmar of Vriens & Partners, a consultancy, said he sensed more caution from the still-powerful military establishment and a belief that “it’s too early to let go of the reins.”
很多人称改革陷入“停顿”。在解释这一说法时，咨询企业弗莱恩斯合伙公司(Vriens & Partners)的缅甸事务执行总监罗曼·卡约(Romain Caillaud)表示，他感觉依旧强大的军方权势集团变得更为谨慎，并且认为“现在放开缰绳还为时过早”。
“We were all a bit naïve about how far things could go,” Mr. Caillaud said. “They have done a lot, and they are not that comfortable going much further right now.”
“我们过去都有些幼稚，以为缅甸会走得很远，”卡约说。“他们做了很多，但目前，他们对于进一步发展感到不适。”
The economic changes pushed by the new government are considered a critical complement to the political freedoms that have been introduced. For decades, Myanmar’s poverty-stricken economy was largely state-controlled and disconnected from the outside world.
新政府推动的经济变革被认为是对现已实行的政治自由的重要补充。数十年来，缅甸一直处于赤贫状态，其经济很大程度由政府控制，与外界脱节。
But the welcome mat laid out for foreign investors three years ago has failed to produce the rush of foreign companies that many anticipated, and foreign businesses are encountering high levels of corruption, a dysfunctional bureaucracy and infrastructure that remains among the most primitive in Asia.
然而，三年前推出的热烈欢迎外国投资者的举措没能像很多人期待的那样，吸引大量外企涌入缅甸。外国公司遭遇到了严重的腐败问题、运转不良的官僚机构，以及亚洲地区最为落后的基础设施。