One of the darkest aspects of Myanmar’s political transition is a surge in religious intolerance, especially toward Muslims. Liberalization has lifted the lid on many pent-up grievances, and old-timers in the government and the monkhood are stoking these sentiments.
宗教宽容度的急剧降低，是缅甸政治转型中最阴暗的一面，尤其是对穆斯林的排斥。自由化激发了大量压抑已久的愤怒，政府和寺庙里的元老派也在煽动这种情绪。
Last week the government proposed a law that would require anyone who wants to change religion to first seek permission from local authorities; it would also penalize proselytizing through “improper influence and persuasion.” This is one of four bills the government has drafted at the instigation of a powerful group of radical Buddhist monks called Mabatha, backed by a petition with 1.3 million signatures. The other three bills contemplate restricting interfaith marriage, birth rates and polygamy. Though phrased broadly, all are a veiled attack on Myanmar’s religious minorities, especially its 2.2 million Muslims.
政府上周颁布了一项法律，规定任何人想要改变宗教信仰，必须首先得到当地官员的许可；它还将对通过“不恰当的影响和说服”来劝诱他人改宗的行为进行惩罚。由于受到势力强大的激进佛教徒组织Mabatha的鼓动，政府起草了四项法案，这是其中之一。有130万人在请愿书上签名对此表示支持。其他三份法案则考虑要对跨宗教婚姻、出生率和一夫多妻制进行限制。虽然措辞含混，但是这些内容其实都是在攻击缅甸的宗教少数派，特别是220万穆斯林。
A coalition of almost 100 civil society groups, led by well-known women activists and ethnic minority leaders, immediately protested the president’s endorsement of the discriminatory laws. The Mabatha denounced them as “traitors,” but that only prompted more civil society groups to oppose the bills. Facebook lit up with posts and comments like, “Count me in; I am a traitor, too.” The publication The Voice criticized “crony monks” for trying to advance the government’s authoritarian agenda.
由著名妇女活动人士和少数民族领导人领导的大约100个民间团体所组成的联盟，第一时间对总统签署这些不公正法律的做法表示了抗议。Mabatha谴责这些人是“卖国贼”，但这个举动只是引起了更多民间组织对这些法案的反对而已。Facebook上出现了许多这样的帖子和评论，“算我一个；我也是个卖国贼。”杂志《声音》(The Voice)则指责“裙带僧人”试图推动政府的威权主义议程。
This reaction is unprecedented. Myanmar’s Buddhist order is arguably one of the clergies in the world that commands most deference from its followers, and never before have so many lay Buddhists pushed back against the monks for political reasons.
这种反应史无前例。缅甸的佛教僧团十分在意教众的顺从，这方面的要求在全世界各宗教的神职人员中算是最高的，此前从没有这么多普通佛教信徒因为政治原因而反抗僧侣。
Buddhist sects have had disputes among themselves about the tenets of monastic discipline: Should a monk’s robe cover both shoulders or just the left? And there have long been conflicts between the order and the state. Many monks opposed British colonial rule, with some joining the armed struggle against it, and from the 1980s through the late 2000s, monks rallied students to form the vanguard of the pro-democracy movement.
各个佛教宗派关于寺庙戒律的规定也存在争议：僧袍应该把双肩都盖住，还是只盖住左肩？而且长期以来，僧团和国家之间一直存在矛盾。许多僧人都反对英国殖民统治，有些人还参加了反对它的武装斗争。从1980年代初直到2000年代末，僧人一直在集结学生组成民主运动的前锋队。
Intellectuals have sometimes criticized monks, but typically it was for falling short of their own rules, not for political reasons. We were taught to think of any corrupt monks as deviant, keeping intact our faith in the virtue of the robe and the wisdom of the Buddha.
知识分子有时会批评僧人，但这往往是因为他们没有遵守自己的规定，而不是出于政治原因。我们得到的教育是，任何腐化的僧人都是离经叛道者，不会动摇我们对僧袍的纯洁和佛陀的智慧的信念。
But now a gap is growing between a significant segment of the monkhood and a significant segment of society over the issue of religious radicalism.
但是现在，在宗教激进主义的问题上，相当一部分僧人与相当一部分社会产生了越来越大的分歧。
Buddhist nationalism took a turn for the extreme in mid-2012, when riots broke out between Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims in the western state of Rakhine, killing 300 people and displacing about 140,000, mostly Muslims. (The government refuses to acknowledge the Rohingyas as a distinct ethnic group, and many people in Myanmar consider them to be intruders from neighboring Bangladesh.) When the violence spread to other parts of the country and to non-Rohingya Muslims, who were thought to be better integrated, it seemed that natural bigotry was being manipulated.
2012年中期，佛教民族主义突然走向极端。当时，佛教徒和位于西部的若开邦(Rakhine State)的罗辛亚(Rohingya)穆斯林群体发生暴力冲突，共导致300人死亡，约14万人流离失所，其中大多是穆斯林。（政府拒绝承认罗辛亚族是一个独特的民族团体，许多缅甸人都认为他们是来自邻国孟加拉国的侵略者。）当暴力波及国家其他地区，以及被认为已经更好地融入社会的非罗辛亚族穆斯林时，与生俱来的偏见似乎受到了操纵。
Two radical religious groups, Mabatha and the 969 Movement, have emerged since the political transition in 2011. Like Mabatha, the 969 Movement — named after the nine qualities of Buddha, the six qualities of his teaching and the nine qualities of monastic community — wants to ensure that Myanmar remains a majority-Burman and majority-Buddhist state. It is led by the firebrand ultranationalist Ashin Wirathu.
激进宗教组织Mabatha和969运动都是在2011年的政治变革之后出现的。与Mabatha一样，969运动——第一个“9”是指九个佛祖的属性，“6 ”指的是佛祖教诲的六大义法，最后一个“9”是僧伽的九大属性——希望能保证缅甸仍是个缅甸人占多数、佛教徒占多数的国家。它的领导者是激进的极端民族主义者阿欣威拉杜(Ashin Wirathu)。
Mabatha and the 969 Movement have run a broad anti-Muslim campaign, from organizing economic boycotts against Muslim businesses to, some charge, inciting pogroms. During a visit by a delegation from the Organization of Islamic Cooperation last year, monks marched through Yangon with banners calling Islam “a faith of animals with uncontrollable birthrates.” Other monks have even been accused of instigating killings early last year in the town of Meiktila, in central Myanmar, where Buddhist mobs destroyed Muslim neighborhoods, killing at least 44 people, including 20 students and several teachers at an Islamic school.
Mabatha和969运动展开了规模庞大的反穆斯林行动，他们曾组织针对穆斯林企业的经济抵制，而且有人还指控他们煽动进行了迫害。去年在伊斯兰合作组织(Organization of Islamic Cooperation)代表团访问期间，僧人还曾拿着条幅在仰光游行。条幅称伊斯兰教是“一种无法控制出生率的动物信仰”。有些僧人还被指控在位于缅甸中部的密铁拉煽动杀戮，佛教暴徒在那里摧毁穆斯林社区，至少杀害了44人，其中包括一所伊斯兰学校的20名学生和几名老师。
These extremist monks are proving to be valuable political allies for the ex-military leaders of the pseudo-civilian government. Ashin Wirathu’s camp criticizes the opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi for being too weak in her defense of nationalism and Buddhism. (The other side criticizes her for being too weak in her defense of minority rights.) The radical monks oppose amending the current military-drafted Constitution to let Myanmar nationals with a foreign spouse or children run for the presidency, which would open the way for Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi in the 2015 election. Meanwhile, some monks are pushing to obtain the right to vote, which the Constitution also bans.
事实证明，对伪文官政府的那些前军事领导人来说，这些极端主义僧人可以是极有价值的政治盟友。阿欣威拉杜的阵营批评反对派领袖昂山素季，说她在捍卫民族主义和佛教方面过于软弱。（另一方则批评她在捍卫少数派权利方面过于软弱。）激进的僧人反对修改目前由军方起草的《宪法》，反对让拥有外国配偶或子女的缅甸人竞选总统，那将为昂山素季参加2015年的大选铺平道路。同时，一些僧人正在试图获得目前仍受宪法禁止的投票权。
But this rise in religious radicalism has created a countermovement bringing together over one hundred civil-society actors, including the pro-democracy 88 Generation Students Group; popular monks like Metta Shin U Zawana; Muslim and Christian groups; ethnic minorities; associations of intellectuals like PEN Myanmar; much of the mainstream media; and young bloggers like Nay Phone Latt. Together they have launched an anti-hate speech campaign, released official statements of protest, petitioned the legislature and lobbied the international community to condemn discrimination in Myanmar.
但这种宗教激进主义做法激发了一个对抗性运动，它汇聚了一百多个民间社会活动机构或人士，其中包括亲民主的88世代学生团(88 Generation Students group)；广受欢迎的僧人麦塔信育扎瓦那(Metta Shin U Zawana)；穆斯林和基督教团体；少数民族；缅甸笔会(PEN Myanmar)这样的知识分子协会；很多主流媒体；涅锋拉特(Nay Phone Latt)等年轻的博客作者等等。他们共同发起了一项反仇恨言论的运动，发布正式的抗议声明，上书立法机构，游说国际社会，来谴责缅甸的歧视活动。
Their approach has a distinctly Burmese feel. They are rejecting extremism without entirely embracing Western values. Wholesale secularism hardly features in their calls; religiosity and spirituality are still prevalent in Myanmar. But local prejudice does feature: Some leaders of the 88 Generation Students Group also refuse to acknowledge the Rohingyas as a distinct ethnic group.
他们的做法带有明显的“缅甸感”。他们拒绝极端主义，却又没有完全拥抱西方价值观。他们的呼声里没有全面世俗化要求；宗教和灵性皈依仍然盛行于缅甸。但本土偏见仍占据着重要地位：88世代学生团的一些领导人也拒绝承认罗辛亚人是一个独特的民族。