YANGON, Myanmar — For years they poured out their hearts on the broken pavements of Myanmar’s cities and towns, young lovers desperate for privacy yet with no choice but to use what the Burmese call roadside phone shops.
缅甸仰光——多年来，年轻的情侣们在缅甸城镇破败的人行道上互诉心声，他们迫切渴望私密空间却没有选择，只能去缅甸人所说的路边电话店。
Daw Myint Myint Than, who rents out her two phone lines in central Yangon, has heard it all: the sobbing, heartbroken women; the angry spouses; the duplicitous boyfriends who gush sweet nothings to one girlfriend, hang up and repeat the same sweet nothings to another.
敏敏丹(Daw Myint Myint Than)在仰光市中心出租着两条电话线，一切都已经很耳熟：哭泣、心碎的女人，愤怒的夫妇，狡猾的男人刚对一个女朋友滔滔不绝地说了一通空洞的甜言蜜语，挂了电话后，又把同样的话向另一个重复了一遍。
“I have lost all faith in men,” said Ms. Myint Myint Than, who sat on a plastic stool impatiently wiggling her silver-painted toenails as her customers chatted away.
“我对男人彻底失去信心了，”敏敏丹说道，坐在一条塑料凳子上的她不耐烦地晃动着涂成银色的脚趾。她的顾客们在一旁愉快地聊着。
Roadside phone shops — actually no more than a tiny table on the sidewalk and a few push-button phones — flourished in Myanmar when the former military junta set the price of obtaining a cellphone at thousands of dollars.
路边电话店实际上不过是人行道上一个放了几台按键式电话的小桌子。前军政府把一部手机的价格设定在数千美元，使得路边电话店的买卖在缅甸兴旺起来。
But as this country opens to the world, the phone rental business is losing customers quickly, one of a number of antiquated trades that are disappearing from a rapidly modernizing country. Who needs a roadside phone shop when you can now buy a cheap cellphone and call from anywhere you want?
然而随着这个国家向世界开放，出租电话的生意正迅速失去客人。在这样一个急速走向现代化的国家里，这是一系列正在消失的过时行当中的一个。如果你可以买到一部廉价的手机，想在哪里打就在哪里打的时候，谁还需要路边电话店？
The list of soon-to-be obsolete professions is growing: The typewriter clerks who sit outside courthouses and government offices are losing ground to computers and email. The mimeograph machines and a whole neighborhood of men who manually carve rubber stamps are being replaced by laser printers, scanners and photocopiers.
即将消失的职业正在不断增加：坐在法院和政府办公楼外的打字员，电脑和电子邮件已让他们失去了优势。油印机和一整个街区手工雕刻橡皮图章的男人正在被激光打印机、扫描仪和复印机取代。
In every society, professions disappear in the name of progress. But the pace of change in Myanmar, where army generals introduced a form of democracy two years ago, has been compressed into months, not decades.
在任何一个社会，进步都会带来职业的消失。但是在缅甸，自从军方将领们在两年前引入一种民主形式以来，此地变化的速度就不是以10年计了，而是在短短数月内完成。
“The typewriting business is bad,” said Daw Nwe Sanda, who was at an outdoor shop in Yangon, where the clack-clack-clack of manual typewriters fills the air. “We still have our regular customers. But someday computers will replace all of this.”
努伊山达(Daw Nwe Sanda)身处仰光一间露天小店，空气中满是噼噼啪啪操作手动打字机的声音，她说，“打字的生意很不好。我们还是有常客。但是总有一天电脑会取代所有这些。”
Myanmar today feels caught between centuries. A clerk next to Ms. Nwe Sanda paused at her typewriter, picked up her smartphone and browsed Facebook.
如今的缅甸仿佛卡在了两个时代之间的某个地方。坐在努伊山达身边的打字员停了一下，拿起她的智能手机开始浏览Facebook。
Shiny new cars pass her stall, which sits in front of a moss-covered, five-story British colonial building that is so dilapidated that large plants grow out of cracks in the facade.
她的打字店位于一栋长满青苔的五层建筑前，这栋建于英国殖民时期的楼已经非常破旧，大株的植物从其表面的裂缝中长出，时不时会有簇新锃亮的汽车从她的店前驶过。
To tourists who hail from more orderly, sanitized societies, Myanmar’s street life can be charming.
对于那些来自更有序、更清洁的社会的游客来说，缅甸的街头生活可能会很有魅力。
On the sidewalks of Yangon, radishes are shredded, corn is steamed, coconuts are hollowed out and stalks of sugar cane are crushed into juice. Vendors sell knickknacks. On one stretch of sidewalk, they hawk teacups, used knives, Chinese-made plastic toys, two types of rat poison and a large pile of dusty, secondhand TV remote controls.
在仰光的人行道上，切着萝卜丝、蒸着玉米、挖着椰肉，还有一捆捆的甘蔗被榨成汁。小贩们出售廉价的小摆设。在人行道的一处，他们叫卖茶杯、二手刀具、中国产的塑料玩具、两种类型的鼠药和一大堆满是灰尘的二手电视遥控器。
The streets are cacophonous, crowded and colorful. But the charm is lost on some here. It is more like desperation, said U Say Thu, who has made rubber stamps on a Yangon street corner for the past decade.
街道上声音嘈杂、拥挤、色彩缤纷。但是一些人却不觉得有什么魅力。过去10年，赛杜(U Say Thu)一直在仰光的一个十字路口制作橡皮图章，他认为，这更像是一派绝望景象。
“No one would choose to work on the roadside,” said Mr. Say Thu, who tries to support his wife and children on an income of about $200 a month. “We would prefer to be indoors.”
赛杜靠着每个月约200美元（约合1200元人民币）的收入努力养活他的妻子和孩子们，他说，“没人会选择在马路上工作。我们都会想在室内工作。”
It took him almost a year to master the art of hand-carving rubber stamps, which companies used for decades to give their correspondence an official imprimatur. But finding customers is getting harder, Mr. Say Thu said. He works with his back to a wall that is covered in green fungus across the street from Sule Pagoda, the golden Buddhist shrine in central Yangon.
他花了近一年时间才掌握了手工刻制橡皮图章的技巧，多年来公司一直会在往来信函上盖这种图章，以证明其效力。可是赛杜说，客人越来越难找了。他背靠着一堵长满绿色菌类植物的墙工作，街对面是仰光市中心的那座金光灿灿的佛塔——苏雷宝塔(Sule Pagoda)。
“My profession is in danger,” he said. “It’s hard to make ends meet.”
他说，“我的职业快要完了。靠它很难谋生。”
A few blocks away is another trade that seems bound for obsolescence: the “ice water ladies” who offer to quench the thirst of customers with a block of ice that drips through a sock into a pitcher of water. Two wrinkled women compete for business by clanging metal cups together. Their main threats, convenience stores that sell bottled water, are opening across the country.
在几个街区之外是另一个将要被淘汰的行当：“冰水妇人”。她们让冰块融化通过丝袜滴入一壶水中，用这来为顾客解渴。两位满脸皱纹的妇人为了抢生意将金属杯子敲得当当作响。然而她们的主要威胁却是正在全国各地出现的便利店，它们会出售瓶装水。
Life in Yangon is moving indoors. Investors paved over a huge cemetery a few years ago and built Junction Square, a giant shopping mall.
仰光的生活正在移入室内。几年前，投资者夷平了一片巨大的墓地，在上面建造了一座大型购物中心联合广场(Junction Square)。
Office buildings and hotels are under construction across the city. Air-conditioned supermarkets carry delicacies like Roquefort cheese from France and apples from the United States.
市内到处都在兴建办公楼和酒店。带空调的超市里出售着美味佳肴，比如产自法国的罗克福(Roquefort)奶酪和美国的苹果。
Once a relatively scarce luxury, air-conditioning is everywhere now, in the form of newly imported cars. After decades when buying a car was beyond the reach of all but the wealthy, the government has allowed a flood of imports.
空调曾是相对罕见的奢侈品，而如今新的进口车里都有空调。过去几十年，买车是只有富人能办到的事，但政府如今已允许车辆大规模进口。
A significant portion of Yangon’s population now spends lots of time shielded from the tropical heat — in traffic jams.
如今的仰光有相当一部分人可以长时间避开热带的高温了——他们在堵车。
The new cars replaced what populated Myanmar’s streets before the country opened up: decades-old Japanese-made cars held together by the ingenuity of mechanics who welded their own spare parts, and used needles and thread to repair torn engine hoses.
新车取代了缅甸开放以前穿行在大街小巷的、几十年前生产的日本车，心灵手巧的机修工用自己的零件把这些车焊装起来，还用针线修补受损的发动机软管。
But those resourceful mechanics can barely contain their bafflement as they stare under the hoods of the new cars, in which microprocessors control everything.
可是，当这些足智多谋的机修工打开那些由微处理器控制的新车的引擎罩时，却无法抑制脸上的困惑。
“It’s a big problem,” said U Zaw Ye Win, who last year helped open Engine Doctor Engineering, a company that trains old mechanics in the ways of modern autos. Four decades of advances in automotive technology have cascaded into the country over the past two years. Myanmar’s mechanics, like grease-monkey Rip Van Winkles, are trying to grasp the finer points of computer diagnostics.
梭耶温(U Zaw Ye Win)说，“这是一个大问题。”去年，他参与开办了引擎医生工程公司(Engine Doctor Engineering)，这是一家给老式机修工提供现代汽车培训的公司。40年来汽车科技的发展，是过去两年才开始涌入这个国家的。缅甸的机修工一个个就像满身油污的瑞普·凡·温克尔(Rip Van Winkles)，经过长时间的沉睡后正在努力学习更尖端的电脑诊断技术。
Mr. Zaw Ye Win, who was trained to be a mechanical engineer, is a good example. He spent 12 years as a political prisoner for defying the military junta and was released during an amnesty in 2011. When he emerged from jail, he had never sent an email, owned a mobile phone or used a web browser, let alone Google. He has quickly caught up.
曾接受机械工程师培训的梭耶温就是一个典范。因为反抗军政府，他被作为政治犯关押了12年，在2011年的大赦中被释放。从狱中走出时，他还没发过电子邮件，没拥有过手机，没用过网络浏览器，谷歌(Google)就更别提了。但他已迅速跟上潮流。
“Many mechanics don’t know how to use a laptop,” he said. “We explain it slowly.”
他说，“许多机修工不知道如何使用笔记本电脑。我们慢慢解释给他们听。”