BANGKOK — A proposal to postpone elections in Myanmar caused an outcry among democratic forces on Tuesday, and the government then issued a public reassurance that the voting would take place as scheduled on Nov. 8.
曼谷——周二，推迟缅甸大选的提议遭到民主派的强烈抗议，缅甸政府后来发表声明，保证投票活动将于11月8日如期举行。
The fear and confusion over a possible delay reflected the democracy movement’s underlying mistrust of the military establishment, including the bureaucracy and the government of President Thein Sein.
延期的可能导致了担忧和困惑，反映出民主运动对军方势力的深层次的不信任，其中包括官僚体系和总统登盛(Thein Sein)领导的政府。
Early on Tuesday, U Tin Aye, a former soldier who represented the governing party before taking his current post as leader of the election commission, summoned representatives of the political parties and proposed a postponement on the grounds that some areas of the country struck by flooding in July and August might not be ready to accommodate voters by the time of the election.
现任选举委员会主席的丁埃(Tin Aye)在服役期间时曾代表执政党。周二一早，他召集各政党代表，提议推迟选举。其理由是，七八月份遭遇洪灾的部分地区可能无法在选举开始之时做好服务选民的准备。
But analysts and members of opposition parties immediately questioned the motives behind the proposal at a time when the powerful military’s political rival, the party of the Nobel Peace Prize laureate and leader of Myanmar’s democracy movement, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, is showing signs of strong support.
但一些分析人士和反对党成员立即对这一提议背后的动机提出质疑。毕竟，此时军方在政治上的强劲对手——由诺贝尔和平奖得主、缅甸民主运动领袖昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)领导的政党——正展现出受到民众强而有力支持的迹象。
U Yan Myo Thein, a political analyst, said the proposal showed that the election commission and Mr. Thein Sein were “not sincere and trustworthy in politics.”
政治分析师扬妙登(Yan Myo Thein)指出，这一提议显示，选举委员会和登盛“在政治上既不真诚，又不可信。”
“The ruling party and their allies fear the mounting strength of Aung San Suu Kyi,” he said. “They need more days to prepare their lines of defense and prepare new strategies and tactics for securing seats in Parliament by any means.”
“执政党及其盟友忌惮昂山素季与日俱增的实力，”他说。“他们需要更多的时间来准备防守战线和新的战略战术，不择手段地保住议会席位。”
On Tuesday evening, state news media announced that after the consequences of a delay were considered, the decision was made to hold the election as planned.
周二傍晚，缅甸的官方通讯社宣布，鉴于推迟选举可能导致的后果，选举委员会决定大选将按原定计划举行。
The flooding in remote parts of the country this summer was severe, and experts had raised the possibility of a postponement in those areas.
今年夏天，缅甸的一些边远地区遭遇了严重的洪灾。有专家提出，这些地区的选举可能会推迟。
Although national law allows the commission to delay or cancel elections in areas affected by natural disasters or security problems, opposition leaders said they saw no reason all voting should be postponed.
尽管缅甸的法律规定，选举委员会有权在遭遇自然灾害或安全问题的地区推迟或取消选举，但反对派领袖认为，没有理由推迟所有地区的投票。
The elections are a major test for the military establishment in Myanmar. For the first time since 1990, parties will freely challenge the military’s dominance. The military canceled the results of the 1990 elections after Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party, the National League for Democracy, won in a landslide. The military then continued its dictatorial rule until 2011, when a nominally civilian government took over.
这次大选是对缅甸军方传统势力的重大考验。自1990年以来，缅甸各政党第一次可以自由挑战军方的控制。1990年，昂山素季领导的政党——全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)——在竞选中赢得压倒性的胜利，但军方宣告选举结果作废。军政府的独裁统治一直延续至2011年，直到一个名义上的文职政府取而代之。
The government has vowed to respect the results of the election, but members of the opposition said they were wary of the military’s continued influence.
政府一直发誓会尊重选举结果，但一些反对党成员表示，他们对军方的持续影响力持谨慎态度。