YANGON, Myanmar — Myanmar's military establishment Wednesday acknowledged the victory of the country's democracy movement led by the Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, raising hopes for a peaceful transfer of power after five decades of military domination.
缅甸仰光——缅甸军方势力周三承认，诺贝尔和平奖得主昂山素季(Aung San Suu Kyi)领导的民主运动获得了胜利，这给缅甸在军事统治五十年之后实现权力的和平移交带来了希望。
President Thein Sein sent his congratulations to Suu Kyi and her party for “gathering the support of the people.” The statement, delivered in a Facebook post, amounted to an admission of defeat by the president, a former general who has led the military-backed government for the past five years.
登盛(Thein Sein)总统向昂山素季及其政党表示祝贺，称他们“凝聚了公众的支持”。这一声明是在Facebook上的一篇帖子中发表的，相当于承认了自己的失败。登盛总统曾经是一名将军，在过去五年中领导了军方支持的政府。
“The government will respect and follow the people's choice and decision, and work on transferring power peacefully according to the timetable,” the Facebook message said.
“政府将尊重和遵循民众的选择和决定，并根据时间表进行权力的和平移交，”Facebook帖子中说。
Both sides agreed to hold negotiations after the election commission announces the final results of the vote, expected later this month.
选举委员会预计于本月晚些时候公布投票的最终结果，双方同意在那之后进行谈判。
Winning a majority in both houses of parliament, as the National League for Democracy appears to have done in Sunday's election, would give the party control over both the legislative and executive branches of government — a breathtaking sweep of power for the democracy movement.
全国民主联盟(National League for Democracy)似乎已在周日的选举中赢得了议会两院的多数席位，因此政府的立法和行政部门都将由它控制——民主运动的大获全胜令人惊叹。
In a letter released by her party on Wednesday, Suu Kyi asked to meet with Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, the commander in chief of the military. “It is crucial for the dignity of the nation that the people's will, which was shown in the election of Nov. 8, be truly implemented in a peaceful and stable manner,” she wrote in the letter, which was dated Tuesday.
在本周三发布的一封信中，昂山素季要求与缅甸国防军总司令敏昂莱(Min Aung Hlaing)会面。“民众的意愿在11月8日的选举中得到了展现，而以和平、稳定的方式真正实现这个愿望，对于国家的尊严是至关重要的，”她在本周二的这封信中写道。
She sent similar letters to the president and the speaker of the lower house of parliament.
她向总统和议会下院议长发送了类似的信函。
The office of General Min Aung Hlaing responded on Wednesday night that the military “congratulates the National League for Democracy in getting a majority of seats” in the official results released so far.
敏昂莱的办公室周三晚回应说，军方祝贺全国民主联盟在迄今公布的官方结果中“获得了多数席位”。
The departing speaker of the lower house of parliament, Thura Shwe Mann, suggested that he was open to the meeting, saying on his Facebook page that he wished to “work together to build a stable, peaceful and developed country.” Shwe Mann lost his seat in parliament in the election.
议会下院议长瑞曼(Thura Shwe Mann)在本次选举中失去了议会的席位，将会卸任。他在Facebook页面上称希望“共同打造一个稳定、和平、发达的国家”，这显示他愿意参加会面。
Despite the democracy movement's triumph, the police, army and large parts of the bureaucracy will remain under the military's direct control. Analysts say the key to a functioning government will be cooperation between Suu Kyi and the military. The extent to which that is possible remains to be seen.
尽管民主运动取得了胜利，但警方、陆军和官僚体制中规模很大的一部分，仍将处于军方的直接控制下。分析人士称，昂山素季和军方之间的合作对政府的运转极为关键。这种合作可以达到什么程度仍有待观察。
The new parliament is expected to meet early next year and select a new president in March.
新一届议会预计最早会在明年召开会议，并于3月选出新总统。
The military-drafted constitution prohibits Suu Kyi from serving as president, but she has rankled the ruling party, which is the political arm of the military, by saying she would serve above the president.
军方起草的宪法禁止昂山素季担任总统，但她对执政党耿耿于怀，称自己将高于总统。执政党是军方在政界的力量。
“The president will be told exactly what he can do,” she told a television interviewer Tuesday. “I make all the decisions, because I am the leader of the winning party.”
“会有人告诉总统，他具体能做什么，”她周二对一名电视记者说。“所有决定都将由我来做，因为我是获胜党的领导人。”
But she also sent signals that she was not out for revenge. She told another interviewer: “We are not going in for vengeance, and we are not going in for a series of Nurembergs.”
但她也释放出信号，表示自己不会复仇。她在接受另一次采访时说：“我们不会报复，不会进行一系列的纽伦堡审判。”
She added that she would “uphold the parts of the constitution that are good.”
她接着表示会“维护宪法中好的部分”。
The constitution was written by the generals who have ruled Myanmar for in one form or another since 1962 and was devised for them to retain significant power even in the case of electoral defeat.
宪法是由军方将领制定的。自1962年以来，他们一直在以这样或那样的形式统治缅甸。宪法的设计让他们能够保留大量权力，即便是在选举失败后。
By Wednesday evening, the commission had announced official results for 298 of the 491 seats contested in Sunday's election. Of those, Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, won 256 and the ruling party won 21.
周日的选举涉及491个席位。到周三傍晚，选举委员会宣布了其中298个议席的正式结果。其中，昂山素季领导的政党全国民主联盟斩获256席，执政党赢得21席。
There are 664 seats in the two houses of parliament; the military appoints 166 of them.
议会两院共设664席，其中166席由军方任命。
The commission also announced that Suu Kyi had been re-elected to her seat, which was expected given the almost divine reverence that she commands across the country.
该委员会还宣布，昂山素季再次当选。考虑到她在全国各地如神明般地备受尊敬，这是预料之中的事情。