DU CHEE YAR TAN, Myanmar — Under the pale moon of Jan. 13, Zaw Patha watched from her bamboo house as Mohmach, 15, her eldest child, was dragged from the kiosk where he slept as guardian of the family business.
缅甸杜其亚丹村——在1月13日那晚苍白的月光下，梭·巴塔(Zaw Patha)从自家竹屋里眼睁睁看着15岁的大儿子穆罕默什(Mohmach)被从门口的售货亭里拖走。当时，穆罕默什睡在亭子里是为了守护家里的生意。
The men who abducted the boy struck him with the butt of a rifle until he fell to the dirt path, she said in an interview, gesturing with a sweep of her slender arms. Terrified, she fled into the rice fields. She assumes he is dead.
她在采访中说，绑架穆罕默什的男子用枪托打他，直到他倒在那条土路上。说这些话时，她挥动了一下纤细的双臂。惊恐万分的她逃进了水稻田里。她觉得穆罕默什已不在人世了。
Three doors away, Zoya, dressed in a black abaya, showed the latch on her front door that she said armed men had broken as they stormed in and began beating her 14-year-old son, Mohamed. She has not seen him since.
佐娅(Zoya)家与梭·巴塔家之间隔了三家。身穿黑色阿拉伯式长袍的她给记者看她家前门的门闩。她说，武装分子冲进来就开始打她14岁的儿子穆罕默德(Mohamed)，门闩就是他们往里闯时折断的。从那以后，她再也没见过儿子。
The villagers’ accounts back up a United Nations investigation, which concluded that the attack on Du Chee Yar Tan that night resulted in the deaths of at least 40 men, women and children, one of the worst instances of violence against the country’s long-persecuted Rohingya Muslims. They were killed, the United Nations says, by local security forces and civilians of the rival Rakhine ethnic group, many of them adherents of an extreme Buddhist ideology who were angered by the kidnapping of a Rakhine policeman by some Rohingya men.
这些村民的描述和联合国(United Nations)的一项调查是相符的。该调查得出结论称，杜其亚丹村当晚遭受的袭击是该国长期受迫害的罗辛亚穆斯林遭受的一次极为严重的暴力事件，袭击造成至少40人死亡，遇难者中有男有女，还有孩子。联合国称，遇难者是被当地的安全部队和敌对势力若开族平民杀害的，这些人中的许多人信奉一种极端的佛教思想。一些罗辛亚人绑架了一名若开族警察，此事惹怒了他们。
Myanmar’s government, intent on international acceptance and investment, has steadfastly denied the killings occurred in the village, a collection of hamlets spread across luxuriant rice fields close to Bangladesh and a five-hour ferry ride up the languid Kaladan River from the state capital, Sittwe. The country’s human rights commission called the news “unverifiable and unconfirmed.”
一心想获得国际社会的接受和投资的缅甸政府坚决否认该村发生了杀戮事件。该国人权委员会则称相关新闻“无法核实、未经证实”。杜其亚丹村是由一片分布在肥沃的稻田间的小村庄组成的，紧邻孟加拉国，乘坐轮渡沿着缓缓流淌的加拉丹河逆流而上，只需五个小时便可抵达所在州的首府实兑。
The United Nations findings, however, have become emblematic of the increasing violence against Myanmar’s Rohingya, an estimated 1.3 million people who are denied citizenship under national law.
然而，联合国的调查结果突显着缅甸罗辛亚人遭受的暴力正日益加剧。据估计，缅甸有130万罗辛亚人。依据缅甸的国家法律，他们不享有公民身份。
The world organization’s report — presented to the government by the United Nations and United States but not made public — documents the initial discovery of the massacre by five Muslim men who sneaked into the area after the attack. They found the severed heads of at least 10 Rohingya bobbing in a water tank. Some of those were children’s.
联合国的报告——由联合国和美国提交给缅甸政府，但尚未对外公布——记录了五名穆斯林男子最先发现那场大屠杀的情况。袭击结束后，那五名男子偷偷进入该地区。他们发现至少有十颗被砍下的罗辛亚人头颅漂浮在一个水槽里。其中一些是孩子的。
One of the men said he was so rattled, and concerned his eyes were playing tricks in the darkness, that he put his hands in the tank to confirm through touch what he thought he saw.
其中一名男子称自己被吓坏了，担心是不是眼睛在黑暗中和自己开了个玩笑，于是把双手放进水槽，想摸一摸，以证实自己看到的是不是真的。
The killings are a test for Myanmar’s government, which has done little to rein in radical Buddhists, even as it pursues broad economic and political reforms of policies created by its former military leaders. The government has backed severe restrictions imposed by local authorities on Muslims’ freedom of movement and deprivation of basic services in Rakhine State, where most Rohingya live.
这次杀戮事件是对缅甸政府的一次考验。尽管缅甸政府正试图对以前军政府统治时期的领导人制定的经济和政治政策进行广泛改革，但它在管控激进派佛教徒方面几乎毫无作为。政府支持地方当局严格限制穆斯林的行动自由，并在若开邦剥夺了他们享受基础服务的权利。大部分罗辛亚人都生活在若开邦。
The bloodletting is also a challenge for Western governments that have showered economic aid and good will on Myanmar in the hope of winning the fealty of the resource-rich fledgling democracy. Those countries have mostly kept their concerns about the treatment of the Rohingya quiet in the hope, diplomats said, of persuading the government to change its stance.
此次流血事件也是西方政府面临的一个挑战。西方政府一直对缅甸有着经济援助和善意表示，希望能以此赢得这个资源丰富的新兴民主国家的忠实追随。一些外交官称，它们大多只是在静观关罗辛亚人受到的待遇，希望说服缅甸政府改变立场。
On Friday, the crackdown on the ethnic minority continued, when the government ordered Doctors Without Borders, the Rohingya’s main health care provider, to stop providing its services to them. One of the group’s offenses, according to a government official, was the hiring of too many Rohingya.
周五，对罗辛亚人这个少数族群的镇压仍在继续。政府下令无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)停止为罗辛亚人提供服务。罗辛亚人主要的卫生保健服务便来自该组织。据一名政府官员称，该组织的过错之一是雇佣了太多罗辛亚人。
Since 2012, many Rohingya, a long-reviled group in Buddhist-majority Myanmar, have been herded into miserable camps they are not allowed to leave, even for work. Those still allowed to live in villages like Du Chee Yar Tan are at the mercy of the local authorities, many of whom are inspired by an extremist Buddhist group whose monks have used the nation’s new freedoms to travel the countryside on motorbikes preaching hatred of Muslims.
长期以来，在佛教徒占多数的缅甸，罗辛亚人一直是被辱骂的对象。从2012年开始，许多罗辛亚人被赶进了条件恶劣的集中营。他们不得离开那些营地，哪怕是为了工作。许多仍得以生活在像杜其亚丹村这样的村子里的人必须受地方当局的摆布。许多地方官员都是在一个极端佛教组织的启发下行事的。这个组织的僧侣利用该国刚刚解禁的摩托车在乡间穿行，宣扬对穆斯林的仇恨。
The latest carnage is a major embarrassment for the government, which has just assumed an important position as the annual chair of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
距今最近的这场大屠杀也令缅甸政府极其尴尬，因为缅甸政府刚刚接任东南亚国家联盟(Association of Southeast Asian Nations)轮值主席一职。
In a sign of the sensitivity, a visit to the village to assess the conflicting reports about the night of Jan. 13 was cut short when local police officers briefly detained two New York Times reporters and a photographer.
由于媒体对1月13日晚间发生的事件的报道存在不一致，《纽约时报》的两名记者和一名摄影师曾前往该村进行核查，但被当地警方短暂拘留，导致此行草草结束，该事件的敏感程度可见一斑。
In response to a major 2012 spasm of violence in Sittwe that included the firebombing of homes and left an estimated 300 dead, most of them Muslims, President Thein Sein said most Rohingya were in Myanmar illegally, despite their having lived there, in some cases, for generations. His solution: The United Nations should help deport them.
2012年，实兑出现大规模暴力事件，其中包括多处房屋被燃烧弹炸毁，导致大约300人死亡，其中大部分为穆斯林。对此，总统登盛（Thein Sein，又译吴登盛）表示，大部分罗辛亚人都是非法待在缅甸的，尽管他们已经在缅甸生活，而且有的甚至已经一连好几代都生活在缅甸了。他提出的解决办法是：联合国应该协助将其驱逐出境。
Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel peace laureate and opposition leader, is rarely asked at home about discrimination against the Rohingya because it is broadly accepted in Myanmar.
在国内，诺贝尔和平奖获得者、反对派领袖昂山素季(Daw Aung San Suu Kyi)很少被问及对罗辛亚人遭遇歧视的看法，因为在缅甸，这一点已被广泛接受。
She has defended her lack of action to the foreign news media, saying that taking sides could further exacerbate tensions, an explanation that even her Western supporters believe is calculated to avoid offending voters ahead of elections next year.
她向外国新闻媒体为自己未采取行动进行了辩护，称偏向任何一方都可能会进一步加剧紧张局势。即便是她的西方支持者也认为，这一解释是为了避免在明年即将举行大选之际惹怒选民。
Though there have been attacks on other Muslim groups elsewhere in Myanmar in the past two years, the animosity toward the Rohingya is especially combustible. Many of them were brought to the country from India in British colonial times, and many ethnic Burmese despise them as illegal intruders from what is now Bangladesh.
尽管过去两年里，缅甸其他地方的其他一些穆斯林群体也受到过袭击，但针对罗辛亚人的袭击尤其严重。许多罗辛亚人是在英国殖民时代被从印度带到缅甸的，许多缅甸族人看不起他们，认为他们是来自现在的孟加拉国的非法入侵者。
About 140,000 displaced Rohingya whose homes were destroyed in two major attacks in 2012 now live in more than two dozen camps around Sittwe, a dilapidated trading center. Largely dependent on assistance from international humanitarian groups, which are often harassed by the local authorities, the Rohingya remain trapped in the camps that foreign aid workers call the world’s largest outdoor jails.
在2012年的两起大规模袭击中，大约14万罗辛亚人因为房屋被毁而流离失所。他们现在生活在破败的贸易中心实兑周边的二十多个营地里，基本依赖国际人道主义组织的救助，但这些组织常常会遭到地方当局的骚扰。他们依然被困在这些被外国救援人员称为全世界最大的室外监狱的营地里。
The presidential spokesman, U Ye Htut, said in a telephone interview that plans last year for “resettlement and rehabilitation” of those in the camps were suspended because the “Bengalis did not agree and threw stones,” using a term common in Myanmar for the Rohingya, indicating the belief that they belong in Bangladesh.
总统发言人叶杜（U Ye Htut，又译吴叶杜）在接受电话采访时表示，由于“孟加拉人不同意，还扔石头”，去年在那些营地进行的“重新安置和恢复生活”计划暂停了。在缅甸，他用的“孟加拉人”这个说法普遍被用来代指罗辛亚人，表明他们认为罗辛亚人属于孟加拉国。
Of the 18 townships in Rakhine State, seven have already barred Muslims from using their clinics, foreign aid workers said. And a report released last week by Fortify Rights, a group that specializes in the Rohingya, chronicled a pattern of discrimination by officials that is intensifying as local authorities appear increasingly desperate to drive the group out. A dozen leaked documents dated from 1993 to 2008 showed the government’s efforts to slow the growth of the Rohingya population, including a requirement for official permission to marry and limits on the number of children couples can have. The presidential spokesman, Mr. Ye Htut, dismissed the findings as “a one-sided view of the Bengali.”
外国救援人员称，在若开邦的18个镇中，已有7个镇禁止罗辛亚人使用它们的诊所。专门关注罗辛亚人问题的组织“巩固人权”(Fortify Rights)上周发布的一份报告记录了官员的歧视现象。在地方当局似乎决意要赶走罗辛亚人之际，这种歧视正在不断加剧。12份泄密文件披露了政府为降低罗辛亚人口的增长速度而采取的措施，包括要求罗辛亚人必须得到官方的许可才能结婚，以及限制罗辛亚夫妇生育的孩子人数。这些文件上注明的日期介于1993年和2008年之间。总统发言人叶杜称这些结论是“孟加拉人的一面之词”。
As a way out of the bleak camps, nearly 80,000 Rohingya men, women and children last year took perilous sea journeys run by smugglers to Thailand and on to Malaysia or north to Bangladesh. Some drowned in capsized boats, and many were detained in Thailand, said Chris Lewa, the director of the Arakan Project, a human rights group.
为了逃离暗无天日的难民营，近8万名罗辛亚人，包括妇女和儿童，去年走上了危险的海上征程，乘着蛇头经营的船只前往泰国，再到马来西亚；或者向北前往孟加拉国。人权组织“若开项目”(Arakan Project)的主任克里斯·莱瓦(Chris Lewa)说，一些人因为船只倾覆而溺水身亡，还有许多人在泰国被扣留。
“The risk seems worth it to them,” she said.
她说，“对他们来说，这些风险似乎是值得的。”
Constrained Lives
限制重重的人生
Muhamed Fourhkhat, 54, and his family have it better than most in the camps and the villages around Sittwe. They have managed — in a vastly reduced way — to replicate the lives they had as the scions of a well-to-do Rohingya quarter in Sittwe that flourished with markets, a primary school for Muslim and Buddhist children, a mosque and a monastery.
现年54岁的穆罕默德·富哈特(Muhamed Fourhkhat)和家人的生活条件，要好于难民营以及实兑附近村子里的大多数人。尽管水准大大下降，但他们多少维系了自己的生活方式。他的家出身于实兑原本富裕的罗辛亚社区。那时，实兑很繁荣，有多家市场、一所接收穆斯林和佛教徒儿童的小学、一座清真寺和一座佛寺。
In the town, the family lived on the top stories of two concrete buildings laid with polished teak floors, and worked downstairs at their hardware business. The land had been passed down through his great-grandfather, Mr. Fourhkhat said.
在城里，他们全家住在两栋水泥楼的顶层，屋里铺着光洁的柚木地板。他们在楼下做五金制品的生意。富哈特说，这块土地是从他太祖父那里传下来的。
The properties were burned by a mob, backed by Rakhine security forces, in June 2012, he said, and bulldozed by the government a few months later. So was every other structure in the neighborhood.
他说，2012年6月，在若开邦安全人员的纵容下，这些房子被一群暴民烧毁，并在几个月后被政府用推土机夷平。附近的其他所有建筑都是这个命运。
On a recent day, the neighborhood was an empty stretch of land overgrown with weeds and littered with plastic bags waving in the wind. An eerie silence has settled over what, by many accounts, was once a friendly marketplace that served both Rakhine and Rohingya.
最近的一天，在这里可以看到，这片居民区已经是一片空荡荡的土地，杂草丛生，乱扔的塑料袋在风中飘摇。许多人说，这里曾经是一个好客的集市，若开人和罗辛亚人都来光顾。如今，这里只剩下诡异的寂静。
Mr. Fourhkhat has never returned, though he could probably bribe a police officer to get there for a short visit. “Why would I?” he asked, pointing out that his beard, touched with henna, gave him away as a Muslim. “If I went,” he said, making a cutting gesture across his neck, “you would find my dead body there.”
富哈特从没回来过，虽然他说不定可以贿赂一名警察，来一次短暂的故地重游。他问道，“我为什么要那么做？”他还指出，他的胡子有一点棕红色，一眼就能看出他是穆斯林。“如果我回去，”他一边说，一边做了一个割脖子的动作，“就得到那给我收尸了。”
He has built a new, if less sturdy, home of bamboo in a Muslim village that sits astride the camps inside a security perimeter that is designated by the Rakhine government as a place Rohingya can live. “I have never lived in bamboo before,” he said.
他已经在一个穆斯林村庄建造了一所竹屋，尽管没有以前的房子那么坚固，但毕竟是新的。村子环绕着难民营，位于若开邦政府划定的罗辛亚人可以居住的安全范围之内。
Mr. Fourhkhat’s son, Shwe Maung Thani, 28, is a graduate of Sittwe University in biology, getting his diploma before the state expelled all Rohingya students from the school. He has rarely sneaked out of the camp, but tried twice to get his sick mother to a hospital.
富哈特的儿子，28岁的瑞貌他尼(Shwe Maung Thani)是实兑大学(Sittwe University)生物专业的毕业生，他在该邦驱逐这所学校的所有罗辛亚学生之前拿到了学位。他很少溜出难民营，但曾经两次试图把病中的母亲送到一家医院。
She died in January after receiving inadequate medical care, he said.
他说，由于没有得到充分的治疗，母亲已于1月去世。
The only Rohingya doctor in Rakhine State — Dr. Tun Aung, trained before a citizenship law in 1982 disqualified Rohingya for medical school — was jailed after the June 2012 violence. He remains in prison, convicted of inciting violence, despite requests from the United States government for his release, an American official said.
1982年的一项公民权法律规定，罗辛亚人不能就读医学院。若开邦唯一的罗辛亚族医生吞昂(Tun Aung)就是在那之前接受的教育。吞昂在2012年的暴力事件之后入狱。一名美国官员透露，尽管美国政府要求把他释放，但他现在仍在狱中，并且因煽动暴力已被定罪。
A Longtime Fear
长期恐惧
The Rakhine people, a group of about 2.1 million who are fiercely proud of their ancient kingdom, known as Arakan, are fearful of the Rohingya based on “an acute sense of demographic besiegement,” according to a recent article by Kyaw San Wai, a Myanmar citizen who is a senior analyst at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore. It is a feeling shared by many Buddhists across Myanmar.
新加坡拉惹勒南国际研究院(The S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies)的高级分析师、缅甸公民觉山韦(Kyaw San Wai)最近的一篇文章称，若开人害怕罗辛亚人是基于一种“人数上受到冲击的强烈感受”。若开人大约有210万，他们对自己的古代王国阿拉干(Arakan)，拥有极其强烈的自豪感。缅甸国内的许多佛教徒都有这种感觉。
Given the lack of a census since 1983, the demographics are imprecise. It is generally accepted by Myanmar and international officials that about 89 percent of the roughly 55 million people in Myanmar are Buddhist and 4 percent are Muslim. The Rohingya are a subset of those Muslims, making the Buddhists’ fear of being overwhelmed seem irrational though it is nonetheless real, the experts say.
由于1983年以来就一直没有过人口普查，所以数据并不准确。缅甸和国际官员基本上接受的是，在缅甸的大约5500万人中，大约89%是佛教徒，4%是穆斯林。专家们说，罗辛亚人是这些穆斯林人口的一部分，尽管这样看来佛教徒担心被边缘化似乎没什么道理，但这种担忧仍然是真实存在的。
“Among Burmese Buddhists, there is a widespread belief that Buddhism will disappear in the future,” Mr. Wai wrote.
觉山韦写道，“缅甸的佛教徒广泛认为，佛教在未来会消失。”
While there is little chance of Muslims taking over the nation, they are enough of a presence here in Rakhine to make their presence felt politically.
尽管穆斯林几乎不可能掌控整个国家，但他们在若开邦的规模，已经足以产生政治影响。
In the 2010 general election, the central government allowed the Rohingya to vote despite their lack of citizenship, and the results were too close for comfort, said Khaing Pyi Soe, a senior member of the Rakhine Nationalities Development Party. The Rakhine candidate in Sittwe won 52 percent of the vote, and the Rohingya candidate 48 percent. Mr. Khaing Pyi Soe and other officials say the Rohingya must not be allowed to vote next year because with many young Rakhine leaving the impoverished region for work elsewhere, the results would be reversed.
2010年的大选中，虽然罗辛亚人没有公民身份，中央政府还是允许了罗辛亚人投票。得票结果过于接近，足以让人不安，若开民族发展党(Rakhine Nationalities Development Party)官员凯比梭(Khaing Pyi Soe)说。若开族候选人在实兑赢得了52%的选票，罗辛亚族的候选人得票率为48%。凯比梭和其他官员说，明年必须取消罗辛亚人的投票资格，因为随着许多若开族人离开这个贫穷的地区到其他地方工作，投票结果会发生逆转。
In the weeks before the attack on Du Chee Yar Tan, monks from the radical Buddhist movement called 969 visited a town nearby. The monks — who are at least tolerated by the national government, if not admired by some officials — have stirred anti-Muslim sentiment throughout parts of Myanmar.
杜其亚丹村遭袭前的几个星期，名为“969”的激进佛教组织的僧侣造访了附近的一座小镇。这些僧人搅动了缅甸各地的反穆斯林情绪，他们至少受到了缅甸政府容忍，甚至受到了一些官员的崇拜。
There was no formal connection between the appearance of the monks and the killings, experts said, but their hate speech has increasingly infected the sloganeering of Rakhine civilians. Now, they say, even moderate Rakhine feel it would be too dangerous to stand up for reconciliation.
专家们说，这些僧人的出现和杀戮行为没有正式的联系，但是他们的仇恨言论对若开族平民的言论口号产生了越来越大的影响。他们说，现在即使是最温和的若开族人也觉得，支持和解是危险之举。
The United Nations and the United States have kept up the pressure on Myanmar about the killings in Du Chee Yar Tan, and Myanmar’s government, which has already conducted two fast inquiries, has ordered another and included a Muslim on the panel, though not a Rohingya Muslim.
在杜其亚丹村的屠杀事件上，联合国和美国一直保持着对缅甸的压力，缅甸政府已经进行了两次快速的调查，并且已经下令进行第三次调查，调查小组包括了一名穆斯林，但不是罗辛亚穆斯林。
One factor may complicate its investigation: The United Nations report on the attack said nearby villagers reported that in the hours immediately afterward, they saw Rakhine security forces ferry 20 bodies to surrounding hills, probably to cover up the murders. Immediately after the slaughter, 22 wounded and traumatized villagers sought help at rural clinics run by Doctors Without Borders, the group said.
有一件事可能让这次调查变得复杂：有关这次袭击的联合国报告称，附近的村民说，在袭击发生后的几个小时，他们看到若开邦的安全人员把20具尸体运到了附近的山上，这也许是为了掩盖谋杀行径。该组织说，屠杀刚刚结束时，22名受伤和受到惊吓的村民曾到由无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)经营的农村诊所寻求帮助。
Some were women traumatized by the horrors they witnessed, according to aid workers familiar with the cases; others sought treatment for wounds.
熟悉这些情况的援助人员说，一些是被目睹的恐怖行为惊吓到的妇女；还有一些人是受伤后寻求救治。
At least some villagers have drifted back to check on their belongings. Zaw Patha, whose son was dragged from the kiosk, found that the goods he guarded had been looted and her cows stolen.
至少有一些村民曾回去寻找自己的财物。儿子被人从售货亭里拖走的梭·巴塔发现，儿子看管的那些货物被抢走了，她的牛也被偷走了。
Red liquid signifying blood was splashed on a school not far from her house, a warning to stay away.
她家不远处的一所学校墙上被泼上了象征鲜血的红色液体，警告人们躲开。
“To an extent, I understand the worry of the Rakhine about Rohingya population growth in an area next to Bangladesh,” said the international aid worker. “But at the same time, you can’t get rid of 1.3 million people.”
国际援助人员说，“在某种程度上，我理解若开族人对这个地区罗辛亚人口增长的担忧，这里紧邻孟加拉国。但与此同时，你不能摆脱掉这130万人。”