BANG LAEM, Myanmar — A decade ago, Myanmar seemed on course to wipe out the opium fields and heroin jungle labs along its eastern border, the notorious Golden Triangle.
缅甸邦莲村——十年前，在缅甸的东部边境，也就是臭名昭著的金三角，政府似乎有望消灭那里的鸦片田和丛林中的海洛因实验室。
Today, valley after valley in these mist-shrouded mountains is covered with resplendent opium poppies, tended by farmers who perch on steep hillsides to harvest the plant’s sticky, intoxicating sap.
如今，在这片云雾笼罩的山脉中，条条山谷都被生机勃勃的鸦片罂粟花覆盖，照看它们的农民在陡峭的山坡上劳作，从这种植物中割出粘稠而令人迷醉的汁液。
Poppy cultivation in Myanmar has nearly tripled since 2006, reaching close to 150,000 acres, according to surveys carried out by the United Nations. Yet even that steep rise fails to capture the full extent of Myanmar’s resurgence as a major player in the global heroin business. Over the last few years, an increasing number of farmers here have produced two opium crops a year, experts say; the second crop is not included in the United Nations surveys.
联合国开展的多项调查显示，自2006年以来，缅甸的罂粟种植增长了近两倍，几乎达到15万英亩（约合6公顷）。然而，即使是这样的大幅增长，也不足以充分展现缅甸作为全球海洛因产业主要参与者的复兴。专家称，过去几年，这个村子里越来越多的农民每年种植两次鸦片；第二次种植都没有被纳入联合国的调查中。
Growing opium poppies is illegal in Myanmar, but farmers in this remote and desperately poor region say they have few viable options.
在缅甸种植鸦片罂粟是违法的，不过，在这个地处偏远且极端贫穷的地区，农民们他们没有什么切实可行的选择。
“We don’t want to grow poppy our whole lives,” said Sang Phae, 36, a farmer who spent nearly a decade in Thailand and returned with knowledge of modern cultivation techniques. “We know this is not good for society, and other countries don’t like it. But there’s no other way for us now.”
“我们不想一辈子种罂粟，”36岁的农民桑派（Sang Phae，音译）说。他在泰国待过近十年，带回了现代的种植技术。“我们知道这对社会不好，别的国家也不喜欢。但我们现在无路可走。”
Myanmar remains a distant second to Afghanistan in global production of opium, the key ingredient in heroin. The United Nations estimates 550,000 acres in Afghanistan were dedicated to growing poppy last year, more than three times the area farmed in Myanmar. But Golden Triangle heroin has a reputation for superior quality and fetches much higher prices, especially in China, which appears to be the primary market.
缅甸的鸦片产量居全球第二位，但远远落后于阿富汗。鸦片是海洛因的关键原料。据联合国估计，去年，阿富汗用于种植鸦片的土地有55万英亩，是缅甸的三倍还多。不过，金三角的海洛因以品质优良著称，可以卖出比一般海洛因高得多的价格，尤其是在中国。中国似乎是金三角海洛因的主要市场。
Until the 1980s, Myanmar was the world’s largest supplier of heroin. Afghan production surged around the turn of the century, and supplies from the Golden Triangle plummeted when China pressured Myanmar ethnic groups along its border to stop growing poppy.
直到上世纪80年代，缅甸一直是世界上最大的海洛因生产国。在世纪之交，阿富汗的产量激增，而在中国要求其边境附近的缅甸少数民族停止种植鸦片之后，金三角的海洛因生产量大幅下降。
But instead of disappearing, opium production migrated south, away from the Chinese border, into areas of Myanmar controlled by a patchwork of ethnic groups, some of them allied with the government, some of them hostile. Although the government controls the big towns, upland areas are the fiefs of militias and ethnic armies, and the new center of the opium-growing business.
不过，鸦片生产并没有消失，而是从中国的边境附近向南迁移，深入到缅甸由多个族裔团体控制的地区，这些团体有些与政府结盟，有些则对外界充满敌意。尽管政府控制着大型城镇，但山地地区是民兵和少数民族军队的控制范围，也是新的鸦片种植中心。
Myanmar’s return to drug trafficking, which also includes a thriving trade in methamphetamine, comes as the country opens up to the world and sheds the shackles of five decades of isolation and dictatorship. With the government preoccupied with the challenges of a budding democracy, opium money is lining the pockets of officials charged with cracking down on the illegal trade.
缅甸毒品贸易卷土重来、包括冰毒贸易蓬勃兴起之际，这个国家开始向世界开放，摆脱了50年的与世隔绝和独裁枷锁。由于政府忙于应付新的民主制度带来的挑战，鸦片贸易带来的收入，让负责打击这项非法贸易的官员富了起来。
“The government turns a blind eye,” said John M. Whalen, the director of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration office in Myanmar until he retired in June. Even local government officials and military officers not directly involved in the trade are “paid to look the other way,” he said.
“政府睁一只眼闭一只眼，”约翰·M·惠伦(John M. Whalen)说。今年6月退休之前，他一直担任美国禁毒署驻缅甸办公室主任。他说就连与这种贸易没有直接关系的当地政府官员和军官“都收到了贿赂，让他们别多管闲事”。
The Myanmar military, which is battling a number of ethnic armies even as the government professes peace, is wary of cracking down on drugs, fearing it could jeopardize tenuous alliances it has built with other militias, he said.
在缅甸政府摆出和平姿态的同时，缅甸军方正在与多个少数民族军队作战。他说，缅甸军方对打击毒品贸易十分谨慎，担心这样做可能会破坏它与其他民兵组织的脆弱联盟。
“You have various militia groups that are allowed to carry on because the government needs them,” said Mr. Whalen, who is now a director at Search, a Singapore-based consultancy.
“多种多样的民兵组织被允许存在下去，因为政府需要它们，”惠伦说。他目前是总部位于新加坡的咨询机构Search的一名董事。
Here in Bang Laem, poppies are grown in the mountainous backcountry controlled by longtime adversaries of the central government, the southern faction of the Shan State Army, a group that like many other upland ethnic groups has been fighting for autonomy from the central government.
在邦莲村，鸦片种植在偏远山区，由中央政府的长期反对者掸邦军(Shan State Army)的南部派别控制。就像其他的许多山地族裔团体一样，该组织一直在争取脱离中央政府，实现自治。
Known as a “black zone,” the area is beyond government control and generally off-limits to foreigners. When a team of United Nations officials and journalists entered recently, the anti-narcotic police officers escorting them stayed behind. In early December, a week before the visit, a policeman was shot in a clash with rebels, United Nations officials said.
这片地区被称为“灰色地带”，它不受政府控制，基本上也禁止外国人进入。当一支由联合国官员和记者组成的团队最近进入该地区时，陪同他们的缉毒警察没有一同进入。联合国官员称，12月初，在这次访问一周前，一名警察在与叛乱分子的冲突中被射杀。
Villagers here say they find themselves locked into a treacherous opium economy. Brokers come to buy the raw opium as soon as it is harvested, but villagers must also reckon with the thuggish elements of the underground economy, including countless requests for payoffs, often at gunpoint.
这里的村民们说，他们觉得自己陷入危险的鸦片经济中无法自拔。鸦片的收获季节一到，中间商们就会来购买未经加工的鸦片，但村民们必须应对地下经济中的黑暗面，比如经常要被人拿枪指着索贿。
The United Nations has persuaded families here to dedicate part of their fields to coffee plants, a pilot project led by Jochen Wiese, an official with the United Nations anti-narcotics office who spent nearly three decades in Peru and started a successful crop substitution program there for farmers of coca, the raw ingredient of cocaine.
联合国劝说这里的农户将部分田地用于种植咖啡，这个试点项目由联合国禁毒署的官员约亨·威斯(Jochen Wiese)负责。他在秘鲁用了近30年的时间，为种植古柯的农民设立了一个成功的作物替换项目。古柯是制作可卡因的原料。
Crop substitution programs have failed numerous times before in Myanmar, notably with buckwheat and sugar cane, both of which were difficult to carry over dilapidated roads. Mr. Wiese says he is confident that he can make a name for Myanmar coffee and leverage his connections to make sure the coffee makes it to market.
作物替换项目在缅甸经历了无数次的失败，尤其是替换为荞麦和甘蔗的项目，这两种作物都很难在破旧的道路上运输。威斯说，他相信可以让缅甸咖啡出名，并利用他的人脉确保这些咖啡进入市场。
Farmers say they are willing to try cultivating coffee, which takes three years to produce beans, but are not yet ready to abandon their poppy fields.
农户们说，他们愿意尝试种植三年才能结出咖啡豆的咖啡，但还没有准备好放弃种植鸦片。
“We’d love to stop producing opium as soon as possible,” said Nang Wan, 23, who watched over her toddler as her husband harvested opium sap. “But if you only plant coffee, you’ll have nothing to eat.”
“我们愿意尽快停止种鸦片，”23岁的南万（Nang Wan，音译）说。她在看着蹒跚学步的孩子，与此同时，她的丈夫在割鸦片汁。“但如果只种咖啡，我们会吃不上饭的。”