THABYU CHAING, Myanmar — Paralyzed from the waist down, Daw Aye Kyi was too heavy for her daughter and granddaughter to carry into the surrounding jungle when a Buddhist mob stormed through this rice-farming village hunting for Muslims.
缅甸塔布昌——为了搜寻穆斯林，一群佛教暴徒洗劫了这个种植稻米的村庄。对于埃枝(Daw Aye Kyi)的女儿和孙女来说，下半身瘫痪的她太沉了，她们当时根本无法把她抬进附近的丛林里。
Three men brandishing machetes and knives ignored pleas for mercy and lunged at Ms. Aye Kyi. Her daughter and her granddaughter fled. Several hours later, Ms. Aye Kyi’s body was discovered, slumped next to the smoking cinders of her wooden house. The police say she was stabbed six times. She was 94 years old.
三名挥舞着砍刀和匕首的男子不顾埃枝的哀求，冲向了她。她的女儿和孙女已经逃走。几小时后，人们发现埃枝的尸体倒在她木屋仍在冒烟的废墟旁。警察说，她被捅了六刀。埃枝死时94岁。
Ms. Aye Kyi was one of five Muslims killed in the attack on Thabyu Chaing last month, a rampage that also destroyed more than a dozen homes. So far, in a year and a half of sporadic Buddhist-Muslim violence, more than 200 people, mostly Muslims, have died.
埃枝是上个月在塔布昌袭击中遇害的五名穆斯林之一，当时还有十几所房子被毁。截至目前，佛教徒和穆斯林之间持续一年半的间歇性暴力冲突已导致200多人死亡，其中大多是穆斯林。
But the killing of a helpless elderly woman — and what followed — is one of the starkest symbols of the breadth of anti-Muslim feelings in this Buddhist-majority country, the lack of sympathy for the victims and the failure of security forces to stop the killings.
但是，一名手无寸铁的老妇人被杀的事实——以及随后发生的事——突显了在这个佛教徒占主导地位的国家里，反穆斯林情绪之盛、对受害者同情的缺乏，以及安全部队在阻止杀人行为方面的失败。
The state-run news media obliquely reported the killings as “casualties” without offering any details. And although the president of the fledgling democracy ordered his office to directly investigate the deaths, there has been no national outcry.
缅甸国家新闻媒体隐晦地将这些杀人行为称为“伤亡事故”，而且没有提供任何细节。虽然这个新兴民主国家的总统命令他的办公室直接对这些死亡事件进行调查，但缅甸国民的普遍反应却比较淡漠。
“For a culture that has such great respect for the elderly, the killing of this old lady should have been a turning point, a moment of national soul searching,” said Richard Horsey, a former United Nations official in the country. “The fact that this has not happened is almost as disturbing as the killing itself.”
“对于一个如此尊重老者的文化而言，这位老妇人的死亡本应成为一个转折点，应该是这个国家进行反思的时刻，”联合国前驻缅官员理查德·霍西(Richard Horsey)说。“然而这种反思尚未发生，这个事实几乎与杀人事件本身一样令人不安。”
The violence that swept through this village took with it the final vestiges of what had until very recently been a peaceful place, where Muslims and Buddhists had coexisted amicably for generations before the loosening of the hard hand of the old junta freed some of Myanmar’s demons. The match that lit the violence here in Thabyu Chaing, in the western state of Rakhine, as elsewhere, appeared to be the teachings of a radical Buddhist group, 969, that the government continues to allow to preach hatred and extend its influence throughout the countryside.
这场暴力运动的影响遍及整个村庄，带走了此地最后的宁静。本来，这里一直是一块和平之地。在旧时军政府的铁拳松开，一些瓶中恶魔重获自由以前，穆斯林和佛教徒已经在这里友好共处了几个世代。这场暴行发生在位于西部若开邦的塔布昌；与其他地方一样，引发冲突的似乎是激进佛教组织969的教义。如今，缅甸政府仍然允许这个组织在全国各地宣扬对穆斯林的仇恨及扩大自身影响。
Hatred for Muslims — partly because of colonial-era grievances — and the fear of appearing sympathetic to them run so deep in Myanmar that officials seem afraid even to console the victims’ families.
对穆斯林的仇恨——部分源于殖民地时代的旧怨——以及对他们表现出同情的恐惧，深深植根在这片土地上，以至于缅甸官员似乎都不敢对受害者的家人表示慰问。
When the local police chief, U Tin Maung Lwin, inspected the body of Ms. Aye Kyi, her daughter and granddaughter remember his saying, “How cruel.” But in a telephone interview, Mr. Tin Maung Lwin, who, like the vast majority of government employees, is Buddhist, denied using “cruel” to describe the murder.
 埃枝的女儿和孙女记得，当地警察局长丁貌伦(U Tin Maung Lwin)在检查埃枝的尸体时说，“真残忍。”这位警察局长和大多数政府工作人员一样同为佛教徒，然而他在电话采访中却否认曾用“残忍”来形容这起杀人案。
“I did not use words that favor one side or the other,” he said.
他说，“我没有使用过任何表示立场的词汇。”
After five decades of military rule, Myanmar remains a heavily militarized country, where the army alone numbers around half a million men and where plainclothes intelligence officers are ubiquitous. Yet security forces were unwilling or unable to stop the Buddhist mob here.
经过50年的军政府统治，缅甸的军事化程度依然很高，仅军队人数就在50万人左右，便衣情报人员更是无处不在。但是，安全部队也不愿意或根本无法阻止这里的佛教暴徒。
Muslim villagers say the authorities were well aware of the danger because they received a telephone call from the local police station on Sept. 30, the day before the violence, warning them of looming danger and instructing them to erect a gate at the entrance to the village.
穆斯林村民说，官员非常清楚危险的到来，因为他们9月30日——暴行发生的前一天——就接到了当地警察局打来的电话，警告他们危险即将到来，还指导他们要在村庄的入口处立一道门。
In the early hours of Oct. 1, when villagers received reports that a mob of several dozen men was approaching, they made urgent phone calls to the police and military units a few miles away.
10月1日凌晨，当村民听到几十名暴徒即将到来时，他们赶紧给几英里外的警察局和部队打了电话。
U Myint Aung, a Muslim farmer, says the security forces responded with skepticism. “They asked us, ‘Are you sure? Are you sure?’ ” he said.
穆斯林农民敏昂(U Myint Aung)说，安全部队的回答充满怀疑。他说，“他们问我们，‘你们确定吗？确定吗？’”
“We told them, ‘Yes, we are sure. Come quickly!’ ”
“我们告诉他们，‘没错，我们确定。快点儿来！’”
A single police vehicle arrived and dispersed a first wave of attackers before dawn. But the mob that killed Ms. Aye Kyi returned midmorning, and the police fled after firing into the air, villagers say.
于是来了一辆警车，在黎明前驱散了第一波攻击者。但是那些最后杀死埃枝的人在上午十点左后又折返回来，村民们说，警察朝空中放了几枪就逃了。
Lt. Col. Kyaw Tint, a senior police officer in Rakhine State, said “security forces did their best.”
若开邦的高级警官觉丁(Kyaw Tint)中校说：“安全部队尽全力了。”
Tomás Ojea Quintana, the United Nations special rapporteur on human rights in Myanmar, has criticized the government for the failure of security forces to intervene in the repeated bouts of violence against Muslims. He had a taste of police inaction in August when he was investigating the site of a massacre of Muslims in the central city of Meiktila. As he toured the city, “police stood by while his car was punched and kicked by a violent mob,” according to a United Nations report.
由于安全部队未能干预层出不穷的针对穆斯林的暴力袭击，驻缅甸的联合国人权特别报告员托马斯·奥赫亚·金塔纳(Tomás Ojea Quintana)已向缅甸政府提出了批评。8月，中部城市密铁拉发生了针对穆斯林的屠杀，他在现场进行调查的时候已经体会到了警察的不作为。一份联合国的报告提到，在金塔纳视察城市的时候，“一群暴徒用拳脚踢打他的车，而警察却无动于衷。”
The failure to stop the violence of Oct. 1 was awkward for Myanmar’s president, U Thein Sein, who was on a scheduled visit to the area at the time. Mr. Thein Sein said he “urged the social, religious and community leaders to work with each other in finding solutions.”
未能阻止10月1日的暴力事件对缅甸总统登盛（U Thein Sein，又译吴登盛）来说格外尴尬。那时他正按预定行程访问该地区。登盛表示，他已“敦促社会、宗教和社区领袖们共同合作来寻找解决方案。”
Under his office’s direction, the investigation of the violence appears to have yielded swifter results than after previous killings; more than 70 people, including about 50 Buddhists, have been arrested, according to the police.
在登盛办公室的直接指挥下，这次暴力事件的调查似乎比以往的杀戮事件调查更快见到成果；警方表示，已有70多人被捕，其中有大约50名佛教徒。
The bodies of two Buddhists were discovered several days later in another village, but the circumstances of their deaths are unclear.
数天后，人们在另一个村子里发现了两具佛教徒的尸体，但他们是在何种情况下死去却不得而知。
Muslims say the spiraling hatred is largely due to influences from outside the village.
穆斯林们表示，不断升级的仇恨从很大程度上来自外部的影响。
They say Buddhist neighbors became more distant after the spiritual leader of the radical 969 movement, who preaches on the threat of Islam in the country, gave a sermon in a neighboring village in April. Buddhist families shared his hate-filled videos. In August, heeding a call by a private Buddhist organization called the Preservation and Protection of National Races and Religion, Buddhist families hoisted Buddhist flags in front of their homes, the first time in living memory that villagers had done so, according to the abbot of the local monastery.
他们说，激进的969运动的精神领袖总会宣讲伊斯兰教对这个国家的威胁，4月他在邻村讲道后，佛教徒的邻居们就开始变得更加疏远。佛教徒家庭传播了他那些充满恨意的视频录像。8月，在一家名为全国种族与宗教保存和保护(Preservation and Protection of National Races and Religion)的私人佛教组织发出号召后，佛教徒家庭纷纷响应，在家门前挂起了佛旗，据当地一家寺院的主持说，这是记忆中村民们第一次这么做。
To Muslims, the flags represented an “us-and-them” separation that allowed the mob to know which houses to spare.
对穆斯林来说，这些旗帜意味着“我们和他们”的分别，这样暴徒们就知道哪些房子是可以略过的。
“They hate Islam, and they want it to disappear from the country,” said Daw Than Than Nwe, a Muslim woman from the village.
“他们憎恨伊斯兰教，他们希望伊斯兰教从这个国家消失，”村子里的一位穆斯林妇女探探内(Daw Than Than Nwe)说道。
The spiritual leader of 969, a monk named Ashin Wirathu, says Buddhism is under siege by Muslims, who are having more children than Buddhists. He says his group is not behind any of the killings, but many say his preachings incite the violence. Mr. Thein Sein, the president, once called Mr. Wirathu a “noble person.”
969运动的精神领袖、僧人阿欣威拉杜(Ashin Wirathu)称，佛教正被穆斯林重重包围，他们生孩子也比佛教徒多。他说他的组织没有支持过任何杀戮行为，但很多人表示，他的教义煽动了暴力袭击。总统登盛曾称威拉杜为“高尚的人”。
The immediate trigger for the Oct. 1 violence, Buddhists say, was an episode in which a Muslim merchant insulted a Buddhist man for flying a Buddhist flag on his three-wheeled taxi.
佛教徒表示，10月1日暴力事件的直接诱因是一位穆斯林小贩侮辱了一位佛教徒的男子，因为他在小贩的三轮出租车上挂了一面佛旗。
U Einda Sara, the abbot of a large Buddhist temple in Myanmar’s most famous beach resort, Ngapali, is typical of extremist Buddhist monks who have great influence in Burmese society and are rarely publicly contradicted.
在缅甸，一些极端的佛教僧人在社会中有着巨大的影响力，很少有人公开质疑他们的观点。最著名海滨度假圣地额不里一间大型佛教寺庙的住持恩达萨拉(U Einda Sara)就是这样的一个人。
In an interview in his monastery, the abbot offered a version of the killing of the 94-year-old woman that stands in stark contradiction to police accounts. The abbot asserted that Ms. Aye Kyi “ran away and died from lack of oxygen.” Her body was probably mutilated by fellow Muslims to make Buddhists look bad, he said.
在他寺庙进行的采访中，这位住持对于那位94岁老妇人的死亡给出了和警方截然不同的解释。这位住持称，埃枝“逃走了，死于缺氧。”他说，其他的穆斯林对她的尸体动了手脚，来让佛教徒看上去很恶劣。
The abbot justified the killing of Muslims on the grounds that it was self-defense.
这个住持为那些针对穆斯林的杀戮行为辩护，认为那是自卫。
“If you encounter a tiger, you run away if possible,” he said. “But if you cannot run, you have to fight back.”
“如果你面对一只老虎，可能的话你会跑，”他说，“但如果你跑不了，你就得反击。”