MANDALAY, Myanmar — A provincial court in Myanmar on Thursday sentenced the head of a weekly newspaper and four of its journalists to 10 years in prison and hard labor for publishing a report that said a vast and secretive government factory was designed to produce chemical weapons.
缅甸曼德勒——缅甸一家地方法院周四做出宣判，一家周报的主管及四名记者被判处10年徒刑和劳役，原因是他们发表了一份报道称，政府的一家巨型秘密工厂被用于生产化学武器。
Burmese journalists said the jail terms were a major blow to recently won news media freedoms in the country after five decades of censorship and persecution.
缅甸记者表示，这个国家的新闻媒体经历了50年审查和迫害，近年才赢得自由，而这样的徒刑惩罚，令媒体自由遭受沉重打击。
The five people sentenced Thursday in Pakokku Township Court include four reporters and the chief executive of the Unity journal, which closed in June partly because of the expense related to the case.
周四在木各具镇法院(Pakokku Township Court)接受宣判的五人包括《团结》报(Unity journal)的四名记者和社长，这家报纸已经在六月关闭，一定程度上是因为在本案中的开销所致。
“This is injustice!” U Tint Hsan, the chief executive of Unity, shouted to reporters as he was led away from the courtroom. “This is an attempt to control the press!”
“这是不公正的！”被带出法庭的该报社长丁山(Tint Hsan)对着记者们喊道。“这是企图控制媒体！”
A lawyer for the journalists was quoted by Burmese news media saying they would appeal the decision. A news media association in Yangon, Myanmar’s largest city, said it would hold a vigil Friday at a Buddhist temple for the jailed journalists.
缅甸新闻媒体援引一位代理记者的律师称，他们会对这个裁决进行上诉。缅甸最大城市仰光的一家新闻媒体协会表示，他们将于周五在一座佛教寺庙为被关押记者举行守夜祈祷。
Hard labor was commonly added to prison sentences during military rule, and it includes building roads and digging ditches.
在徒刑中加入劳役是军政府统治时期的常用手段，内容包括修路和挖沟。
The case comes amid concerns among journalists here that the government, which is led by former military officers, is reverting to tactics of intimidation toward the news media. The Special Branch of the police force, a unit feared during military rule, has visited the newsrooms of a number of publications in recent weeks and asked to see financial records. A journalist for the Democratic Voice of Burma, an online Burmese news site, was jailed earlier this year for trespassing and disturbing the work of a civil servant.
本案发生前后，缅甸国内记者对政府已经产生了担忧，认为它在前军官的领导下，正在重新对新闻媒体使用恐吓手段。最近几周，在军政府时期令人闻声色变的警察特别支队(Special Branch)前往多家刊物的新闻编辑室，要求查阅财务记录。今年早些时候，在线新闻网站缅甸民主之声(Democratic Voice of Burma)的一名记者被判入狱，理由是非法侵入和干扰一名公务员的工作。
“Clearly, real press freedom remains a distant dream for Burma, where the government still gets to decide what is fit to print, and who has the right to inform (or misinform) the public,” said a commentary in the Irrawaddy, a news website, after Thursday’s sentences were announced.
“显然，真正的媒体自由在缅甸仍然是个遥远的梦，政府仍然有权决定什么是适合印发的，谁有权告知（或误导）公众，”新闻网站《伊洛瓦底》(Irrawaddy)在周四判决公布后发表的一则评论文章称。
President Thein Sein, who instituted news media reforms and abolished censorship after taking power three years ago, has changed his tone in recent days.
三年前上台执政时，缅甸总统登盛着手进行了新闻媒体改革，废除了审查制度，但近来他的论调有所改变。
“If media freedoms are used to endanger state security rather than give benefits to the country, I want to announce that effective action will taken under existing laws,” he said in a nationally broadcast speech on Monday.
他在周一的一次全国广播讲话中说，“如果媒体自由是被用来危害国家安全，而不是给国家带来益处，那么我要宣布，政府将依据现行法律采取切实行动。”