YANGON, Myanmar — Myanmar’s journalists celebrated this year when the government lifted a five-decade ban on private newspapers.
缅甸仰光——缅甸政府今年解除了实施50年的私营报纸禁令时，本国记者都为之欢呼雀跃。
But six months after a dozen dailies rushed into production, journalists who had withstood the wrath and cruelty of a military dictatorship are struggling against something much more mundane: market forces.
然而，十几家日报蜂拥出版六个月后，经受住了军事独裁狂风暴雨的那些记者却在世俗得多的问题上苦苦挣扎。这个问题就是市场的力量。
Despite expectations of pent-up demand, publishers say they are suffering from unexpectedly low circulation, a lack of advertising and competition from the Internet.
尽管人们普遍期待压抑的需求会带来机遇，但各家报社表示，意外的低发行量、广告不足及互联网的竞争让它们处境艰难。
“Every publisher is bleeding,” said U Sonny Swe, chief executive of the Mizzima Media Group, which publishes a daily. “You have to be ready to fight. And ready to lose.”
“每家报社都在失血，”发行了一份日报的密希玛媒体集团(Mizzima Media Group)的首席执行官密瑞(U Sonny Swe)说。“必须要做好战斗的准备，还要准备好失败。”
Three of the 12 dailies introduced this year have already shut down, and none of the remaining nine are reporting profits, publishers say.
在今年推出的12家日报中，有三家已经停业。报社称，剩下的九家也都没有盈利。
Some of the challenges facing Myanmar’s new dailies are the same as those that have confronted the news business globally for years, like declining readership for print publications.
缅甸各家新日报面临的部分挑战与全球新闻业多年来遭遇的问题别无二致，比如纸媒读者人数逐步下滑。
But Myanmar’s new dailies are also operating in an impoverished country where the legacy of military rule is pervasive. The private dailies are competing with state-run newspapers that were the mouthpieces of the junta and remain in business.
不过，这些缅甸新日报还要在一个充斥着军事统治遗风的贫穷国家办报。私营的日报需要与曾是军政府喉舌、现在继续发行的国有报纸竞争。
Distribution in big cities is still unreliable for the private papers, especially during the rainy season, and nearly nonexistent in the countryside. And a typical cover price of 20 cents a copy for the private papers is too high for many readers, publishers say. State-run publications sell for a fraction of that.
私营报纸在大城市的派送仍不稳定，尤其是在雨季，乡村地区的派送更是几乎不存在。报社表示，私营报纸的零售定价是每份20美分（约合1.2元人民币），对许多读者来说太贵了。国有报刊的售价是它的零头。
Private newspapers were banned in Myanmar, formerly Burma, by a military government in the 1960s. A junta that took over in 1988 allowed private weekly publications, but only under heavy censorship. The civilian administration that came to power in 2011 abolished censorship last year and allowed dailies to start publishing in April after obtaining licenses.
上世纪60年代，军政府对私营报纸下了禁令。缅甸当时的英文名为Burma。1988年上任的将军允许私营周刊出版，但必须经受严格的审查。2011年，文官政府掌权，并于去年废除了审查制度，允许获得执照的日报从今年4月开始发行。
Daw Nyein Nyein Naing, the executive editor at The 7 Day Daily, one of the new newspapers, said finding good reporters had been difficult. Her reporters are addicted to Facebook, she said, and often post scoops to their Facebook pages, rather than filing stories to their editors.
《7天日报》(The 7 Day Daily)是其中的一家新报纸。执行主编迎迎乃(Daw Nyein Nyein Naing)称，很难找到优秀的记者。她说，手下的记者都对Facebook上了瘾，经常把独家消息放上Facebook，而不是把报道发给编辑。
She also lamented that many readers appeared to prefer dailies and weeklies that she said ran sensational articles of dubious veracity. “People are not buying quality,” she said.
她还抱怨，许多读者似乎更喜欢那些在她看来刊登真实性存疑的、耸人听闻报道的日报和周刊。“人们不看重质量，”她说。
“It was our dream to have a daily paper,” Ms. Nyein Nyein Naing said. “Sometimes I feel that maybe it was too early for Myanmar to have daily newspapers. We are not giving the best quality to readers. Maybe we were not ready, especially on the human resources side.”
“办一份日报曾是我们的梦想，”迎迎乃说。“有时候，我感觉或许缅甸办日报还太早。我们现在没有把最好的质量呈现给读者。大概我们还没准备好，尤其是在人员方面。”
With Myanmar’s future still uncertain, troubled by sectarian violence and questions about the military’s power and influence, editors say there is a great need for high-quality reporting from around the country.
缅甸的未来尚难预料，宗教暴力之争与军方权力及影响的问题仍然困扰着这个国家。编辑们认为，缅甸各地都非常需要高质量的报道。
This was evident during bouts of violence between Buddhists and Muslims this year, says U Than Htut Aung, the chairman of the Eleven Media Group, which has both a daily and a weekly.
十一媒体集团(Eleven Media Group)的主席丹图昂(U Than Htut Aung)称，今年佛教徒与穆斯林之间的几场暴力对抗就突显了这一点。该集团同时发行日报和周刊。
When the central city of Meiktila erupted in sectarian violence in March, one of his photographers was chased away by a mob of angry Buddhists. A second photographer was dispatched from a nearby city, but he too was confronted by a marauding mob and forced to seek shelter in a police station. A third photographer was sent and posed as a businessman, discreetly taking photos of the city, where dozens of homes were burned and at least 44 people were killed. The Daily Eleven’s photos were among the first images sent from the city after the carnage.
今年3月，中部城市密铁拉爆发教派骚乱，他手下的一名摄影师被一群愤怒的佛教暴徒赶走。身处附近城市的第二名摄影师被派往那里，结果他也遭遇了一群四处劫掠的暴徒，被迫到警局躲避。报社又派出了扮作商人的第三名摄影师，小心地拍下城里的照片。当地几十座房屋被烧毁，至少44人遇害。《十一日报》(The Daily Eleven)的照片成为杀戮事件发生后第一批发自密铁拉的影像资料。
Mr. Than Htut Aung said he printed about 85,000 copies of The Daily Eleven, which is not yet profitable despite being the largest private daily newspaper.
丹图昂称，《十一日报》的发行量约为8.5万份，虽说是缅甸最大的私营日报，也尚未盈利。
The paper is effectively subsidized by a weekly sports journal, which began publishing 13 years ago and which has consistently made money.
实际上，该报由集团内的一份体育周刊补贴。这份周刊13年前开始发行，一直在赚钱。
But smaller newspapers do not have that kind of financial support.
可是，规模较小的报纸就得不到这种财务支持了。
U Thiha Saw, a longtime journalist who clashed with censors many times during military rule, runs the country’s only private English-language daily, Myanma Freedom Daily.
老记者迪苏(U Thiha Saw)在军政府统治期间与审查部门有过多次冲突。他如今管理着缅甸唯一的私营英文日报《缅甸自由日报》(Myanma Freedom Daily)。
“We scrimped and saved and sold our apartment,” said Mr. Thiha Saw, who is also vice president of the Myanmar Journalists Association. “Relatives and friends chipped in.”
“我们省吃俭用，卖了公寓，”迪苏说。“还从亲戚朋友那里东拼西凑了一些钱。”他还是缅甸记者协会(Myanmar Journalists Association)的副主席。
He is considering courting outside investors but is worried that their money might come with “strings attached.”
迪苏也在考虑寻找外部投资，却担心他们的钱会有“附带条件”。
Journalists say they face unfair competition from the state-run newspapers, especially because the state publications sell for a fraction of the price and have plentiful advertising, a legacy of military rule when they were the only dailies in the country.
记者们表示，他们面临来自国有报纸的不正当竞争，尤其是因为国有报刊的售价只是他们的零头，而且有源源不断的广告。这种情况是从军事统治时期延续下来的，因为那时只有国有的日报。
U Kyaw Zwa Moe, editor of the English edition of the Irrawaddy, a widely read Internet news site that also publishes a monthly magazine, said the state-run papers are an impediment to the development of a free press in the country.
伊洛瓦底(Irrawaddy)是受众广泛的新闻网站，同时发行一本月刊。英文版主编觉刷莫(U Kyaw Zwa Moe)称，国有报纸是缅甸新闻自由的绊脚石。
“In a democratic society you don’t expect the Ministry of Information to publish newspapers,” he said. “It’s a barrier for the freedom of the press, and for private and independent media groups.”
“在民主社会里，你不会看到信息部发行报纸，”他说。“对新闻自由、私营及独立媒体集团来说，这都是一种障碍。”
Some of the new dailies, although private, have the backing of the old military establishment.
部分新的日报，虽说属私营性质，却有老牌军方权贵的支持。
Union Daily, which is published by the Union Solidarity and Development Party, or U.S.D.P., the party formed by the former junta that has a majority in Parliament, makes no secret about its mission.
联邦巩固与发展党（Union Solidarity and Development Party，简称巩发党）发行的《联邦日报》(Union Daily)对其使命直言不讳。巩发党是由前将领成立的政党，目前在国会中占多数。
“Union Daily reflects the policies of the U.S.D.P.,” said U Win Tin, a former army officer who is the paper’s chief editor. “We are doing P.R. for the U.S.D.P.”
报纸主编温丁(U Win Tin)曾是一名陆军军官。“《联邦日报》反映的是巩发党的政策，”他说。“我们为巩发党做宣传。”
In the long term, both private and state-run newspapers are likely to find it harder than ever, editors say.
编辑们认为，长期看来，无论是私营还是国有，办报都很可能会越来越艰难。
With Internet connections improving and big foreign telecommunications companies poised to install mobile phone networks that could bring tens of millions of people online for the first time, Myanmar is likely to follow the global trend of people looking online for their news.
缅甸的互联网正在改善，大型外资电信企业准备架设手机网络，或许会让数千万民众首次用上网络。因此，缅甸也很可能追赶网上看新闻的全球趋势。
“Newspapers are so new for this country — that is why everyone is publishing,” said Mr. Sonny Swe, the chief executive of Mizzima.
“报纸对缅甸来说实在是一个新兴行业，所以每个人都在办报，”密希玛的首席执行官密瑞说。
“But you don’t want to be in newspapers for 10 years,” he said. “Our future is in mobile.”
“但是你不会想做10年的报纸，”他说。“我们的未来是移动媒体。”