MANDALAY, Myanmar — When hundreds of Buddhist men carrying clubs and swords marauded through the streets of this old royal capital earlier this month, the owner of a Muslim-Chinese restaurant took down the Koranic scriptures and the image of Mecca hanging above the cashier and removed the Arabic writing from signs on the street.
缅甸曼德勒——本月早些时候，当数百名佛教徒拿着刀棒在这座王朝古都四处劫掠时，一家穆斯林中餐厅的老板将挂在收银台上方的《古兰经》和麦加图片拿了下来，并去掉了街道招牌上的阿拉伯文书法。
“I don’t know when I will put them back up, maybe never,” said Jian Hao Yang, whose restaurant is a short walk from the mosque where Chinese Muslims have worshiped for close to a century and a half.
杨建豪（音译）说，“我不知道何时会把这些放回去，可能永远没有这一天。”他的餐厅离一座清真寺不远。华人穆斯林在这座清真寺做礼拜，已有将近一个半世纪的历史。
Mandalay, the city that evokes the romance of Kipling for Westerners, has been a center of Buddhist learning since its founding in the 19th century by a broad-minded Burmese Buddhist king. It has also been a conglomeration of complexions, religions and ethnicities, a trading post and halfway point between the great civilizations of China and India.
这座城市会让西方人想起吉卜林作品中的东方韵味。19世纪，一位胸怀博大、信奉佛教的缅甸国王建造了曼德勒，自此之后，这里便成为了研习佛法的中心。曼德勒容纳着各种肤色、宗教和民族，是一座贸易中心，处于中国与印度两大文明的中间。
But the historical tolerance shown by bygone Buddhist rulers is unraveling in Mandalay, the country’s second largest city, as antipathy between Buddhists and Muslims continues to spread across Myanmar, fomented by a radical Buddhist movement that is partly based here.
信仰佛教的昔日统治者们历来比较宽容，但如今在缅甸的第二大城市曼德勒，这种态度正在消散。在佛教激进运动的推动下，佛教徒与穆斯林互不相容的现象在缅甸不断蔓延，而曼德勒正是这场激进运动的一个发源地。
The riots in Mandalay, which left two people dead and prompted a nighttime curfew, brought religious hatred to the doorstep of one of the country’s best assimilated minorities, Chinese Muslims known here as the Panthay.
曼德勒的骚乱造成两人死亡，导致当局实施宵禁，将宗教仇恨烧到了同化程度很高的一个缅甸少数族群门前。他们是华人穆斯林，在缅甸被称为“潘泰人”(Panthay)。
The Panthay are distinct from the broader Muslim population, which is in large part made up of Indian Muslims. But in a measure of how ubiquitous antipathy toward Muslims has become today, the Panthay, after decades of lives interwoven into Burmese and Buddhist society, now fear for their safety.
在缅甸的穆斯林人口中，印度裔占多数。潘泰人与他们差异显著。然而，在融入缅甸及佛教社会上百年后，潘泰人开始担心自身的安危。这说明，对穆斯林的憎恶已经变得非常普遍。
“We are now among the hated,” said U Maung Maung Lay, the great-grandson of a Panthay leader who moved here from southern China in the 1850s.
貌貌礼(U Maung Maung Lay)说，“我们现在被人恨上了。”貌貌礼的曾祖父在19世纪50年代带领回族人从中国南方迁至缅甸。
For a week after the riots, the board of trustees of the Panthay mosque, among them jade merchants, a pediatric surgeon and timber barons, suspended the festivities that normally accompany the breaking of the fast during Ramadan. They also turned down the volume of the loudspeakers announcing the call to prayer.
骚乱发生的那一周里，潘泰清真寺的董事会暂停了斋月期间通常都会举办的开斋活动。董事会成员包括多名玉器商、一名小儿外科医生，以及几名木材大亨。他们还调低了用于召唤穆斯林做礼拜的扬声器的音量。
The mosque has since resumed the ceremonial breaking of the fast, but the celebration is muted and more sparsely attended than in years past.
这座清真寺如今已经恢复了开斋仪式，但庆祝活动并不热烈，参与的人数也比往年少。
“We are now living a lower profile,” said U Win Aung, one of the trustees of the mosque. “It’s for our own good.”
“我们现在比较低调，”董事会成员温昂(U Win Aung)说，“这是为了自保。”
The Panthay mosque, with thick, fading ocher walls and a minaret built from Burmese hardwood, was erected in the 1860s with the blessings of a great Burmese king, Mindon, who although a devoted patron of Buddhism, welcomed the Muslim community and provided the land where the mosque remains.
这座清真寺厚厚的赭石墙已经褪色，还有一座缅甸硬木材质的宣礼塔。在获得伟大的缅甸国王敏东王(Mindon)的批准后，穆斯林在19世纪60年代建造了这座清真寺。尽管敏东王是一名虔诚的佛教徒，但他对穆斯林群体表示欢迎，并提供了用于建造该清真寺的土地。
Mandalay today is a sprawling city dotted with Buddhist pagodas, churches and mosques. But it is also home to the radical teachings of Ashin Wirathu, a monk who has preached hatred toward Muslims and is the spiritual leader of a movement to boycott Muslim businesses.
如今，曼德勒的城市规模不断扩张，城中遍布着佛塔、教堂和清真寺。但是，这里还是阿欣威拉杜(Ashin Wirathu)的激进教义的发源地。阿欣威拉杜鼓动针对穆斯林的仇恨情绪，是抵制穆斯林商铺运动的精神领袖。
When bands of young Buddhists prowled the streets carrying clubs and shouting anti-Muslim slogans on the night of July 1, Mr. Maung Maung Lay, the descendant of the Panthay leader, fled to a hotel with his family.
7月1日晚间，一群年轻的佛教徒手持棍棒在街头出没，高喊反穆斯林的口号。当时，貌貌礼与家人逃到了一家宾馆里。
He advised Panthay women to remove head coverings and told Muslim friends with beards to shave.
他建议本族女性摘下头巾，并告诫穆斯林友人剃掉胡须。
“I told them: ‘Shave it off. It endangers you. The beard is not important. What is important is how you practice your religion.’ ”
“我告诉他们：‘剃掉胡须。它会危及你的安全。胡须并不重要，重要的是如何践行宗教。’”
Violence against Muslims in Myanmar began two years ago along the border with Bangladesh, as a dispute between Buddhists and the million-strong community of Muslims known as Rohingya.
缅甸国内针对穆斯林的暴力活动始于两年前。当时，在孟加拉国与缅甸边境沿线，佛教徒与由上百万穆斯林组成的罗辛亚人爆发了冲突。
Many Rohingya have lived in the country for several generations but are considered illegal immigrants by the Burmese government, denied citizenship, and seen as a demographic threat by Buddhists, who make up the vast majority of the country’s population of about 60 million.
很多罗辛亚人世世代代在缅甸生活，但缅甸政府认为他们是非法移民，并拒绝给予公民身份。在佛教徒看来，罗辛亚人的人口规模构成一大威胁。缅甸大约有6000万人，其中佛教徒占绝大多数。
Anti-Muslim riots have spread to towns and villages across Myanmar as old resentments toward Muslim immigrants that were buried during five decades of military rule resurfaced amid the new freedoms of the country’s budding democracy.
在长达50年的军人统治期间，对穆斯林移民的恶意得以掩盖。然而，随着这种情绪在民主萌芽阶段的自由环境下再次抬头，反穆斯林骚乱已经蔓延至缅甸各地的城镇和村庄。
The riots in Mandalay signaled a new level of threat in the religious strife: for the first time a big metropolis was at risk.
曼德勒的骚乱标志着宗教冲突带来的威胁达到了新高度：大都市首次陷入险境。
“No one really knows how the violence could escalate and who could be the next target,” said Thant Myint-U, one of the country’s leading historians. “There’s deep-seated prejudice against many minority communities, extremely high unemployment, rampant rumor mongering and a lot of general anxiety about the future. It’s an environment that’s very easy for anyone to exploit.”
“没人确切地知道暴力活动会如何加剧，谁将是下一个目标，”缅甸知名历史学家丹敏-吴(Thant Myint-U)说。“人们对少数族裔的偏见根深蒂固、失业率极高、谣言疯传，而且对未来普遍感到焦虑。任何人都很容易利用这个环境。”
U Thein Win Aung, the imam of a mosque on the outskirts of Mandalay, says the city “is like a pile of wood ready to burn.”
曼德勒郊区一座清真寺的阿訇登温昂(Thein Win Aung)表示，曼德勒“就像是一堆随时会燃烧的木头。”
“It will take just one spark,” said Mr. Thein Win Aung, who is active in interfaith groups that are trying to stave off conflicts in the city.
登温昂说，“只需要一个火星就能点燃。”他积极参与跨宗教团体的活动，而这些组织正设法防止曼德勒爆发冲突。
The violence in Mandalay, which was set off by unconfirmed reports on Facebook of a rape of a Buddhist woman by two Muslim men, could have been much worse had it not been for the intervention of a Buddhist monk and former political prisoner, Mr. Thein Win Aung and others say.
引发曼德勒暴力事件的是，Facebook上有未经证实的消息称，一名女佛教徒被两名穆斯林男子强奸。登温昂等人表示，假如没有那名曾是政治犯的佛教僧人出手干预，情况可能会糟得多。
The monk, Galonni Sayadaw, approached the roving bands of young Buddhist men and urged them to return to their homes. The monk also publicly exhorted the chief of police, who as in previous bouts of religious unrest did not immediately intervene, to disperse the crowds.
这位名为加霍尼·萨亚杜(Galonni Sayadaw)的僧人主动接近了那群四处流窜的年轻佛教徒，劝他们回家。他还公开敦促警长驱散人群，而在之前的宗教动乱中，警长未能及时出手。
At the end of two nights of violence, the damage to property was not as severe as in some other cities racked by religious violence: a number of cars in Indian Muslim neighborhoods had been burned and mosques had been attacked with stones but were not seriously damaged. But the two men killed — a Buddhist, U Tun Tun, and a Muslim, U Soe Min — were brutally murdered. The body of the Muslim man was identifiable by his wife only by a distinctive blemish on one of his toes.
两夜的暴力活动没有造成像同样爆发了宗教冲突的其他一些城市那样严重的财产损失。在印度裔穆斯林社区中，几辆车被烧毁，清真寺遭石块袭击，但建筑没有严重受损。不过，名为吞吞(Tun Tun)的佛教徒和名为梭敏(Soe Min)的穆斯林惨遭杀害，手法相当残忍。梭敏的妻子只能通过他脚趾上的一处特殊疤痕辨认尸体。
In an interview, Galonni, the monk, expressed the widely held view that the violence was backed by forces allied with conservative factions of the government that are trying to slow the country’s moves toward democracy ahead of landmark elections next year. “As we come closer to elections there will be more conflict,” he said.
萨亚杜在接受采访时表达了一个非常普遍的观点，即暴力活动获得了与政府保守派结盟的势力的支持，而在明年将举行具有重大意义的选举的背景下，保守派正设法阻碍缅甸的民主进程。他说，“随着选举的临近，会有更多冲突。”
David Scott Mathieson, an analyst with Human Rights Watch in Myanmar, wrote after the Mandalay riots that it appeared that the “violence was not just an organic eruption of communal resentment” and noted that it may have been linked to a planned visit to Mandalay on Sunday by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the opposition leader. Burmese analysts have speculated that the violence might be associated with efforts to slow her ascension in politics and ultimately derail her attempts to become president.
曼德勒发生骚乱之后，人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)驻缅甸的分析人士戴维·斯科特·马西森(David Scott Mathieson)写道，“这不只是集体怨恨情绪的自然爆发。”他还指出，这可能关系到反对派领导人昂山素季(Daw Aung San Suu Kyi)周日访问曼德勒的行程计划。缅甸的分析人士猜测，暴力事件可能与阻碍昂山素季的政治地位上升有关，最终目的是破坏她成为总统的努力。
Mr. Thein Win Aung, the imam, says religious strife is also being aggravated by what he describes as radical Muslims trained in India and the Middle East, who are preaching separation from Buddhist society.
登温昂阿訇表示，那些在印度及中东接受培训的激进穆斯林也可能致使宗教冲突进一步恶化。他们鼓吹穆斯林应该脱离佛教社会。