KUALA LUMPUR — With Myanmar coming out of the cold after five decades of military rule, President Thein Sein and his deputies are eager to show the world they are making progress on political reforms. The latest government ploy is to pressure minority groups — through a buildup of troops in a minority-held region — into signing a national cease-fire agreement in the coming weeks in the nation’s capital, Naypyidaw.
吉隆坡——随着缅甸长达50年的军人统治的结束，该国正在逐渐开放，总统登盛（President Thein Sein，又译吴登盛）及其副手们急于向世界展示他们在政治改革方面取得的进步。政府最近的一招是迫使一些少数民族团体在未来几周内在首都內比都签署全国范围的停火协议，为此政府向少数民族控制的地区增派了部队以施加压力。
While minority leaders are negotiating with the government this week, many are dubious of the proposal. Government troops have failed to honor agreements in the past. And Naypyidaw’s chief negotiator makes it plain that he and his team do not have control over the military. Rebel leaders are mindful that the Burmese military has exploited earlier lulls in fighting around cease-fire negotiations for its own strategic ends.
虽然少数民族领导人本周正在与政府进行谈判，但不少人对这一提议表示怀疑。政府部队过去未能履行其在协议中的承诺。而且内比都的首席谈判人明确表示，他和他的团队没有控制军队的权力。反叛团体的领导人也记得，缅甸部队曾利用以前为进行停火谈判而出现的临时休战来达到其战略目的。
But the main problem with Naypyidaw’s approach to peace is that government leaders and the military remain wedded to a highly centralized — as opposed to federal — vision of government that is unacceptable to the minorities.
但是，内比都和平方案的主要问题在于，政府领导人与军队仍坚持一种高度集中的政府结构，而不是联邦制，这是少数民族所不能接受的。
Myanmar’s ethnic minorities make up about a third of the nation’s nearly 55 million residents and live in some of the most resource-rich areas along the borders with Bangladesh, India, China, Laos and Thailand. There are a handful of major ethnic minority groups, and dozens of smaller ones, with unique cultural and linguistic heritages. Though independent statehood was the original aim of most minorities following independence from Britain in 1948, most groups chose long ago to fight for a federal system of government, an idea the Burmese generals have been reluctant to embrace since they came to power in 1962.
缅甸的少数民族在该国5500万人口中约占三分之一，他们生活在与孟加拉国、印度、中国、老挝和泰国接壤的一些资源最丰富的地区。缅甸有几个主要的少数民族以及几十个更小的少数民族，他们都有自己独特的文化和语言遗产。虽然在1948年脱离英国统治后，成立独立的国家是大多数少数民族的最初目标，但很多少数民族团体很久以前就选择了为一个联邦体制政府而战斗，而军队将领们自1962年掌管政权以来，一直不愿接受这种观念。
Several years ago, one of the country’s highest ranking generals complained to me about the minorities’ push for a federal system. In a view typical of the leadership in Naypyidaw, he said federalism would be the first step toward disintegration of Myanmar.
几年前，缅甸的一位级别最高的军队将领曾向我抱怨过少数民族推动联邦制度的问题。他的看法在内比都领导人中非常典型，他说，联邦制度将会是分裂缅甸的第一步。
The government’s military presence in ethnic minority regions is another sticking point. Government troop reduction is something all minority communities want. The army’s abysmal human rights record in the contested areas has perpetuated conflict over the decades and hardened resistance to the military.
政府在少数民族地区部署军队是谈判的另一个难点。减少这些地区的政府军是所有少数民族的要求。几十年来，军方在有争议地区糟糕的人权纪录导致冲突不断，也增强了少数民族抵抗军队的决心。
When it comes to negotiating peace, the military has in the past used its bilateral cease-fire agreements as opportunities for troop reinforcement, or the construction of strategic roads for sending in supplies to front-line positions.
就和平谈判本身而言，军队过去曾借达成双边停火协定的机会，派遣增援部队，或修建为前沿阵地提供物资的战略道路。
General Baw Kyaw Heh, the deputy chief of staff of the Karen National Liberation Army, told Karen News in September that despite a bilateral cease-fire between his group and the government, the Burmese Army has “continued to transport their military supplies, rotate their troops, modify and fortify all of their bases.”
克伦民族解放军(Karen National Liberation Army)副总参谋长鲍觉海将军（General Baw Kyaw Heh，音译）9月份曾对克伦新闻(Karen News)说，虽然他的组织与政府达成了双边停火协议，但缅甸军队仍“在继续运输军需品、轮换驻军、并在改建和加强他们所有的基地”。
Based on my experience working with the generals as an unofficial advocate for Western re-engagement with the country, I know that the military leaders who may be inclined to compromise hold an instrumentalist view of reconciliation. For them, peace is not a worthwhile goal in and of itself but a means to another end: financial reward.
我作为西方重新接触缅甸的一名非官方倡议者，与缅甸军队将领一起工作过，根据这一经验我知道，那些或许有意妥协的将领们对和解持一种工具主义看法。对他们来说，和平本身不是一个值得实现的目标，那只不过是一个获得经济奖励的手段而已。
Myanmar is well-known for its untapped natural resources, much of which are in the minority controlled areas. Kachin state is famous for jade; Karenni state’s tungsten deposit is one of the world’s largest; Karen state has vast virgin teak forests and potential as a source of hydropower.
缅甸以其未发掘的自然资源著称，大部分自然资源分布在少数民族控制的地区。克钦邦以玉石闻名；克耶邦拥有世界上最大的钨矿藏之一；克伦邦拥有巨大的柚木原始森林以及水电资源潜力。
A cessation of the violence in these regions is a prerequisite for commercial development. To be sure, some minority leaders would stand to benefit personally from the buildup of these areas. But many ethnic people look at the national leaders and well-connected businessmen with more skepticism, assuming they will exploit their land.
在这些地区停止暴力是进行商业开发的首要前提。诚然，一些少数民族领导人也会在这些地区的开发中获得利益。但很多少数民族人民对国家领导人和人脉发达的商人持更多的怀疑态度，认定他们要利用当地的土地资源谋私利。
The idea of a national cease-fire has gained traction, in part, because former President Jimmy Carter led a delegation of former heads of state, known as the Elders, to Myanmar. They met with the government, civil society groups and ethnic minority leaders and threw their weight behind Naypyidaw’s cease-fire call. Locals explain the Elders’ endorsement as a case of outsiders being misinformed about the true nature of the government, which talks peace to the West while waging quiet wars against the minorities outside the media’s gaze. A version of this is under way now in the Kachin region, where the government has recently sent in troops just as cease-fire negotiations were beginning.
在全国实现停火的想法正得到更多的支持，部分原因是美国前总统吉米·卡特曾率领一个由前国家首脑组成的“元老团”访问缅甸。他们与政府、公民社团以及少数民族领导人见了面，还表示支持内比都的停火呼吁。当地人把“元老团”对停火的支持解释为外部力量对缅甸政府的真实本质缺乏认识的一个例子，政府在西方人面前大谈和平，同时在媒体视线之外的地方悄悄地对少数民族发动战争。这种情况现在正在克钦邦上演，就在停火谈判开始之际，政府最近已向那里派遣自己的部队。
On the eve of independence in 1948, the Burmese nationalist leaders promised that ethnic equality would be a cornerstone of the new Burma. But equality has remained elusive.
1948年国家独立前夜，缅甸的国家主义领导人曾承诺，民族平等将成为新缅甸的一个基石。但平等一直没有得到实现。
Until the promise of equality and the vision of a federated union are genuinely pursued, the government’s offer of peace will have few local takers. No amount of aid or international cheerleading by celebrity statesmen will make it work.
除非缅甸能真正寻求实现平等的承诺，并建立联邦政体，否则政府提出的和平建议就不会得到很多少数民族的接受。再多的援助或著名政治家带领的国际啦啦队也无济于事。