COLOMBO, Sri Lanka — A radical monk from Myanmar who has preached hatred toward Muslims and is the spiritual leader of a movement to boycott Muslim businesses said Sunday that his movement would join hands with a Sri Lankan group to “protect Buddhism around the world.”
斯里兰卡科伦坡——一名缅甸激进僧人周日表示，他的运动将和一个斯里兰卡团体联手“保卫世界各地的佛教”，这名僧人此前一直在宣扬对穆斯林的仇恨，并成为了一场抵制穆斯林商家的运动的精神领袖。
The monk, Ashin Wirathu, the leader of an extremist movement in Myanmar called 969, was the guest of honor at a convention of Buddhist hard-liners in Colombo, Sri Lanka’s capital.
这名僧人叫阿欣威拉杜(Ashin Wirathu)，是一个名为969的缅甸极端主义运动的领导人，斯里兰卡首都科伦坡的一个佛教强硬派大会的座上宾。
Ashin Wirathu, who addressed thousands of Sri Lankan Buddhist monks at the Sugathadasa Indoor Stadium, expressed his gratitude to President Mahinda Rajapaksa of Sri Lanka for allowing him to take part in the event despite calls from Muslim and Christian groups for the government to cancel his visa.
阿欣威拉杜在苏加沙达室内体育场(Sugathadasa Indoor Stadium)对数千名斯里兰卡佛教僧人讲话，表达了自己对斯里兰卡总统马欣达·拉贾帕克萨(Mahinda Rajapaksa)的感谢，尽管穆斯林和基督教团体要求政府取消他的签证，拉贾帕克萨还是允许他前来参加这场活动。
He arrived in Sri Lanka on Friday night and was received at the airport by a large delegation from the Sri Lankan organization Bodu Bala Sena, or Buddhist Power Force, which has been accused of carrying out attacks against Muslims in Sri Lanka.
他在周五晚间抵达这里，斯里兰卡团体武道巴拉塞纳(Bodu Bala Sena)的一支庞大代表团在机场迎接了他，该组织被指在斯里兰卡发起了针对穆斯林的袭击。
On Sunday, Bodu Bala Sena’s general secretary, Galagodaththe Gnanasara, said that “the time has come for Buddhists to ally internationally,” and that Ashin Wirathu “understands the situation.”
周日，武道巴拉塞纳总干事加拉格达斯特·那那萨拉(Galagodaththe Gnanasara)说，“全世界佛教徒团结一心的时刻到来了，”并称阿欣威拉杜“清楚现在的局势”。
Speaking at the convention, Bodu Bala Sena’s leaders called for a new constitution to protect the majority Sinhalese community and for a new national flag that would recognize only the Sinhalese and no minority ethnicities and religions. Harshly criticizing the government, they vowed to field their own candidate for president if the current administration failed to protect Buddhists in the country.
武道巴拉塞纳的领导人在大会上讲话时呼吁，用一部新宪法来保护占多数的僧伽罗人社群，并使用新的国旗，上面只体现僧伽罗，不要出现少数民族和宗教。他们激烈批评政府，誓称如若现届政府不能保护这个国家的佛教徒，他们会去物色自己的总统候选人。
“This is not a multireligious country,” Bodu Bala Sena’s founder, Kirama Wimalajothi, said. “This is a Sinhalese country.”
“这不是一个多宗教国家，”武道巴拉塞纳创始人基拉玛·维马拉乔迪(Kirama Wimalajothi)说。“这是个僧伽罗国家。”
The Sri Lanka Muslim Congress, the country’s main Muslim party and a government ally, urged the authorities to step up protection for Muslims in the capital ahead of the Bodu Bala Sena convention.
该国的主要穆斯林政党、政府盟友斯里兰卡穆斯林代表大会(Sri Lanka Muslim Congress)向政府呼吁，在武道巴拉塞纳的大会开始前强化针对穆斯林的保护。