MANDALAY, Myanmar — Although Than Than Aye, a street vendor, is a half-century old, few if any wrinkles mar her complexion. Her secret? A yellowish paste made from ground tree bark that she applies to her cheeks, nose and neck after her morning shower and again before bed.
缅甸曼德勒——街头小贩丹丹蔼(Than Than Aye)已经年过半百，不过，她的皮肤上却几乎没有皱纹。她的秘密是什么？一种发黄的粉浆，原料是磨碎的树皮。她会在早晨沐浴之后，晚上就寝之前，在自己的脸颊、鼻子和脖颈上涂抹这种粉浆。
Known as thanakha and prized for its sunblock and aesthetic qualities, the paste is as ubiquitous on Burmese faces as the colorful sarongs, or lungies, wrapped around their waists.
这种粉浆名叫檀娜卡(thanakha)，因为具有防晒和美容效果而受人青睐。缅甸人涂在脸上的这种粉浆，和他们缠在腰间、色彩缤纷的莎笼(sarong)，也就是腰布一样随处可见。
“I’ve worn thanakha my whole life and will until the day I die,” said Ms. Than Than Aye, huddling over her small cart overflowing with nail polish and combs at a boisterous outdoor market here. Both ritual and remedy, thanakha cools the skin, prevents sun damage, clears up acne and can reduce fevers and headaches when ingested, many Burmese say.
丹丹蔼蜷缩在她的小推车边说道，“我这辈子天天都涂檀娜卡，到死我都会一直涂。”这里是一处熙熙攘攘的露天市场，她的推车里堆满了指甲油和梳子。檀娜卡已经不仅是一种习惯，也成了一种疗法。许多缅甸人说，檀娜卡能保持皮肤清凉、防止晒伤、清除粉刺，发烧和头疼时服用檀娜卡还能退烧止疼。
But even as the use of thanakha has outlasted countless Burmese dynasties, British colonialism and military dictatorships, this ancient practice is being challenged by a new power that has recently invaded Myanmar: multinational cosmetic corporations with seductive advertising campaigns that seek to moisturize, powder and slather this long closed-off nation.
使用檀娜卡的习惯跨越了缅甸无数个王朝、英国殖民统治，以及军事独裁，一直绵延至今。然而，这种古老的做法正在受到新近侵入缅甸的一股新势力的挑战，那就是以诱人的广告闯入缅甸，渴望替这个国家保湿、擦粉、抹乳液的国际化妆品公司。
Ms. Than Than Aye admits that the neon-colored beauty accessories she sells are part of the problem. “Young women now wear makeup when they go out,” she said. “All these cosmetic brands have changed their way of thinking.”
丹丹蔼承认，她销售的五颜六色的美容用品造成了一部分问题。“年轻女孩现在出门都要化妆，”她说，“这些有品牌的化妆品改变了她们的思维。”
In the three years since Myanmar began experimenting with democracy after decades of isolation at the hands of a military junta that seized power in 1988, new ideas and consumer trends are altering age-old facets of Burmese daily life.
在1988年缅甸军政府夺取政权后的数十年间，缅甸一直孤立于国际社会之外，直到三年前，缅甸开始尝试推行民主。这三年来，新的观念和消费潮流正在改变缅甸人日常生活里久远传承的方方面面。
Billboards, once absent from a skyline of golden pagodas and moldering colonial-era edifices, have begun sprouting alongside a frenzy of recent construction projects. Many feature fair-skinned models hawking lotions promising a pale, aristocratic hue.
这里的天际线，过去由大金塔和殖民时代的颓败大楼组成，从来没有出现过广告牌。而今，伴随着最近狂热的建设项目，广告牌也遍地开花了。许多广告牌展示的都是皮肤白皙的模特，兜售的化妆品保证让人马上拥有苍白的贵族肤色。
The corporate messaging seems to be making headway.
化妆品公司的营销讯息似乎正在产生效果。
“A lot of girls think wearing thanakha makes you look like a villager,” said Sandi Oo, 24, standing behind a glass cosmetics counter in the Ocean department store here. Ms. Sandi Oo, wearing foundation, pink lipstick and sparkly mascara, was a walking ad for the cosmetics displayed on the surrounding shelves. She said cosmetic sales clerks at the store are fined if they wear thanakha. But once she gets home, Ms. Sandi Oo said she applies thanakha, just like the rest of the sales team. “Honestly, it’s a lot better than the stuff we sell,” she said.
“许多女孩都认为，抹檀娜卡会让人看起来像村里人，”24岁的吴桑迪(Sandi Oo)说。她站在当地的大洋百货商店(Ocean)里的一个出售化妆品的玻璃柜台后面，涂了粉底、粉红色的唇彩，还刷了闪闪发亮的睫毛膏。她本人就像是活生生的广告，展示着周围货架上摆放的化妆品。她说，商店里的化妆品销售员如果涂檀娜卡就会被罚款。不过，吴桑迪说，她回到家里以后，还是会和销售团队里的其他人一样涂。她说，“说实话，檀娜卡比我卖的东西好多了。”
While thanakha is common across Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, the paste is particularly beloved in and around Mandalay, a former capital founded in 1857 by the last Burmese king and now home to a diverse array of ethnicities and religions. Despite recent riots between the local Buddhist and Muslim communities, thanakha is worn by people of all faiths and serves as a highly visible mark of Burmese cultural pride.
虽说檀娜卡风靡缅甸各地，不过格外青睐这种粉浆的却是曼德勒以及周边的地区。1857年，缅甸的最后一个国王在曼德勒建都，现在这里成了多种民族和宗教的聚居地。虽然最近本地的佛教徒和穆斯林群体之间爆发了骚乱，然而不同信仰的民众都会抹檀娜卡，它是缅甸文化自豪感里极为引人注目的一个符号。
Demand for thanakha has spurred something of an industry, especially around the city of Sagaing, a center of Buddhist learning 12 miles from Mandalay, on the opposite bank of the roiling Irrawaddy River. Crowded with monasteries and gilded pagodas, Sagaing is also a destination for those seeking the bark used to make thanakha.
对檀娜卡的需求几乎已经催生了一个产业，这在实皆市(Sagaing)周围尤为明显。实皆是佛教修行的一个中心，距离曼德勒12英里（约合19公里），位于汹涌的伊洛瓦底江对岸。实皆布满了佛寺和镀金的佛塔，而那些寻找制做檀娜卡所用的树皮的人，也会来到这里。
On a recent day, a group of women visiting the gleaming Kaungmudaw Pagoda lined up at a public thanakha stand. One pilgrim sat grinding a short piece of the fragrant wood on a wet stone slab, using a swirling hand motion akin to making a crepe. She then smeared the resulting residue on her cheeks before the next woman took her place.
最近的一天，一队前往光芒四射的贡慕都佛塔(Kaungmudaw Pagoda)朝圣的妇女，在一处制做檀娜卡的公开摊位前排起了队。一名朝圣者坐在地上，在一块湿润的石板上研磨着一段短短的黄香楝木，她用手滚动着香木，动作仿佛是在制做薄饼。之后她把由此产生的粉浆抹在脸颊上，接着她把位置让给下一名妇女。
Outside a ring of towering trees in the central courtyard, dozens of stalls were stacked with bundles of chopped thanakha wood. Thin Thin New, 35, whose face, neck, arms and ears were painted with thanakha, said she earned about $100 a month from the trade.
在中间的院子里有一圈高耸的树木，树的外围有数十个摊档，每个都堆放着成捆成捆已经劈好的黄香楝木。35岁的丁丁纽(Thin Thin New)脸部、脖颈、手臂和耳朵都涂着檀娜卡。她说，她每月能靠这门生意赚到大约100美元（约合617元人民币）。
Generations of Burmese have passed down the regimen to their children. Holding his baby son in his arms, Pyoe Pyoe, 22, a nut vendor, said his mother introduced the child to thanakha at 7 days old. The devotion is institutional. Some elementary schools require that students wear the paste as part of their uniforms, to show that they have bathed.
一代又一代缅甸人把这种美容方法传给了子女。22岁的坚果小贩彪彪(Pyoe Pyoe)抱着他的幼子说，孩子的妈妈在他七天大时，就给他涂了檀娜卡。对檀娜卡的挚爱已经制度化，一些小学要求学生把涂檀娜卡当成校服的一部分，以此显示他们已经洗过澡了。
In the dry Mandalay region, ideal for growing thanakha, the young are almost always seen with swirls and swipes of thanakha on their faces, though many teenage boys stop wearing it in public lest they be seen as feminine. But not all men are rejecting the tradition. “I put on just a little bit to make me look handsome,” said Kan Htoo, 37, a laborer with traces of thanakha on his eyelids and cheekbones. His thanakha-adorned wife approved. “It’s a different look from other guys, but I like it,” she said.
干旱的曼德勒省是种植黄香楝木的理想地带，当地少男少女的脸上几乎总能看到擦檀娜卡的痕迹。不过许多十多岁的男孩因为唯恐被人看成是娘娘腔，已经不再涂檀娜卡了。然而不是所有的男性都摒弃了传统。37岁的劳工甘托(Kan Htoo)说，“我会稍微涂一点，让自己看上去更帅气。”他的眼皮和颧骨有少许檀娜卡的痕迹。他的妻子也会用檀娜卡装点自己，她对丈夫的做法表示认同。她说，“这种打扮和其他男人不一样，不过我喜欢。”
A short drive away, Myat Thu, 33, and his extended family tend to more than 100 thanakha trees they planted near their simple teak houses. Though the tree trunks barely measure six inches in circumference, they are over 20 years old. Thanakha is a long-term investment, with each tree selling for just $50 at maturity. “It’s a long time to wait,” said Mr. Myat Thu, streaks of thanakha glistening on his sweaty cheeks as a cow grazed nearby. In the meantime, his family earns a living by buying the wood wholesale from big farms, which they resell at the Kaungmudaw Pagoda.
在距离此地车程不远的地方，33岁的密图(Myat Thu)和一大家子人在简陋的柚木房旁种了100多棵檀娜卡树。虽然这些树的树围勉强达到6英寸（约合15厘米），树龄却长达20多年，种植檀娜卡树是一项长期投资，每棵成熟的檀娜卡树的售价只有50美元。“我们要等相当长的时间。”密图说，他满是汗水的脸颊上闪着一道道檀娜卡的痕迹，说话时附近有一头牛正在吃草。与此同时，他的家人还有一项营生，就是从大农场购买檀娜卡木，再在贡慕都佛塔附近把这些木头倒手卖出去。