TACHILEIK, Myanmar — The verdant fairways of the golf course outside this northeastern city in Myanmar might suggest a measure of normalcy and tranquility — except for the handguns that some of the golfers wear.
缅甸大其力——在这座缅甸东北城镇的郊外，青翠的高尔夫球场看来正常而宁静——除了一些球手佩戴的手枪。
In a region known for rival ethnic armies and drug-trafficking gangs, many officials find it prudent to carry side arms even as they play 18 holes.
该地区以相互敌对的部族武装和贩毒帮派出名，许多官员认为，出于谨慎考虑，在18洞球场上挥杆时也应随身携带武器。
In the city, which sits along the border with Thailand, a picture of barely controlled lawlessness emerges, with at least eight ethnic militia groups patrolling the streets in different uniforms. Despite their presence — or, in some cases, facilitated by it, Thai officials say — drug traffickers regularly smuggle shipments of heroin and methamphetamine pills to Thailand.
大其力坐落于缅泰边境，呈现出一副目无法纪、几乎不受管控的景象。街头至少有八支部族民兵组织在巡逻，各自身着不同的制服。尽管有他们的存在——或者按照泰国官员的说法，有时由他们从旁协助——毒贩还是经常将海洛因和冰毒偷运到泰国。
Myanmar has begun a remarkable transformation over the past two years, edging toward democracy and moving past the legacy of five decades of military rule. But borderland areas of the country, long riven by ethnic conflict, pose a stubborn impediment to the government’s hopes for national peace. Officials have repeatedly postponed the announcement of a national cease-fire, partly because of the government’s inability to come to terms with ethnic groups located in an arc around the northern and eastern borders of the country.
过去两年间，缅甸开始了引人瞩目的转型，逐渐迈向民主，并脱离50年军事统治的遗风。然而，缅甸边境地区因部族冲突而长期四分五裂，对政府期许的举国和平构成了挥之不去的障碍。官方多次推迟宣布全国性停火，部分原因就在于政府无力与该国北部与东部边境弧形地带的部族团体达成协议。
The United Nations reported on Wednesday that Myanmar’s production of opium, which is used to make heroin, rose 26 percent this year. Opium cultivation by the region’s impoverished farmers has increased for seven straight years, the United Nations says. Production of methamphetamines in northeastern Myanmar has also surged.
联合国周三发表报告称，缅甸的鸦片产量今年攀升了26%。鸦片被用来生产海洛因。联合国称，该地区贫困农民种植的鸦片连续七年增长。缅甸东北部的冰毒产量也出现飙升。
“This area is ignored in the global conversation about Myanmar,” said Jason Eligh, the Myanmar country manager of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. “The rising level of opium cultivation is an indicator that things are not going well.”
“在关于缅甸的全球对话中，这一领域被忽略了，”联合国毒品和犯罪问题办公室(United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime)的缅甸专员贾森·伊莱(Jason Eligh)说。“鸦片种植的持续上升表明，形势不妙。”
Mr. Eligh, who has traveled widely through the northeast of Myanmar, says it is afflicted by a “classic mix of guns and trafficking.”
伊莱走访了缅甸东北部的大片区域，称“典型的枪支、走私问题组合”正影响着这里。
“There are dozens of groups with dozens of different agendas,” he said. “You are not going to find a resolution to the conflict without first addressing the issue of drugs. We are talking about a process that is going to take years and years.”
“有几十个团体带着几十种不同的目的，”他说。“不首先应对毒品问题的话，解决冲突就无从谈起。我们说的这个过程要花上很多很多年的时间。”
An on-off conflict between the central government and the tangled jumble of ethnic groups in northern and northeastern Myanmar is sometimes described as the world’s longest-running civil war.
缅甸中央政府与北部及东北部诸多纠缠不清的部族之间的冲突时断时续，这有时会被外界称为世界上持续时间最长的内战。
Since Myanmar, then called Burma, gained independence from Britain in 1948, ethnic groups have been battling for greater autonomy. Today, under the first nominally civilian government since 1962, they are clamoring for federalism. The central government and especially the military have not yet proposed a specific alternative to the country’s highly centralized state, controlled by members of the main ethnic group, the Burman.
1948年，当时英文名为Burma的缅甸从英国获得独立。自那以后，各部族一直在为更大的自治权而斗争。如今，在1962年以来首个名义上的文官政府的治下，他们大声疾呼要建立联邦制。中央政府，尤其是军方，尚未提出具体方案来替代该国高度集中的政权体制。目前的体制掌握在多数民族缅族人的手中。
The volatility of the region is underlined by periodic attacks and skirmishes, including a blast near the border with China on Tuesday that left at least three people dead, according to Burmese news accounts.
该地区局势的动荡因周期性的袭击事件和小规模冲突而得以突显。据缅甸新闻报道，本周二，缅中边境附近发生爆炸，导致至少三人身亡。
A sort of de facto autonomy reigns in many parts of the borderlands, including large swaths of territory where the central government has little or no presence.
边境地带的许多地区都由一些事实上自治的势力所控制，其中包括大片中央政府势力薄弱，甚至根本鞭长莫及的地区。
The starkest example involves the Wa people, who had something close to autonomy during British colonial rule and who since 1948 have built a state within a state, including their own armed forces, the United Wa State Army. With at least 20,000 under arms, it is one of the largest rebel armies in Asia.
最鲜明的例子就是佤族人。在英国殖民统治期间，他们近乎享有自治权，自1948年以来，他们已经建立了一个“邦中之邦”，拥有自己的武装力量佤联军(United Wa State Army)。这支至少有2万人的武装队伍，是亚洲规模最大的反叛武装力量之一。
The Wa have built their own roads and opened their own schools, hospitals, courts and prisons. They use their own license plates, have their own police force and access Chinese and Thai networks for phone and Internet connections. The leadership writes in Chinese characters, and many if not most Wa do not speak Burmese.
佤族人修建了自己的公路，开办了自己的学校、医院、法院和监狱。他们使用独立的汽车牌照系统、有自己的警察队伍，而且打电话和上网时接入中国和泰国的网络。佤族领导人使用汉字，许多人甚至大部分人都不说缅语。
U Aung Myint, a spokesman for the Wa, said by telephone Wednesday that the Wa leadership had not held talks with Burmese government officials since October.
佤族发言人昂敏(Aung Myint)周三接受电话采访时说，今年10月以后，佤族领导人就没有再和缅甸政府官员举行过会谈。
“The government in Naypyidaw has not properly answered our call for a Wa autonomous state,” he said, referring to Myanmar’s capital. The Wa “have not yet decided” whether to agree to the nationwide cease-fire agreement, he said.
他说，“内比都的政府没有对我们建立佤族自治邦的诉求给予适当的回应。”他说的内比都是缅甸的首都。他还说，佤族人“尚未决定”是否同意接受全国停火协议。
Here in Tachileik, the Wa have a “liaison office” that functions like an embassy.
佤族人在大其力有一个“联络办公室”，其职能类似于大使馆。
U Ar Thet, the deputy liaison officer, told a visiting reporter that the 20 or so Wa representatives in the liaison office are armed “for self-defense.”
联络办副主任阿德(Ar Thet)对一名到访的记者说，联络办有20名左右的佤族代表，“为了自卫”，他们全都携带着武器。
The Wa have rejected the central government’s role in conducting a census next year. Wa leaders say they will count their own people.
佤族人已经拒绝让缅甸中央政府参与明年的人口普查。佤族领导人说，他们会自行统计人口。
Government peace negotiators have met with a range of ethnic groups, sometimes on rebel-held territory. Yet the government has deferred the key question, ethnic leaders say, of how a unitary state inured to decades of top-down military rule will devolve power to the ethnic areas in a new and more democratic Myanmar. Leaders of ethnic groups say the military, which has maintained significant influence and power in the new government, does not appear to be budging from the ideology of central command.
政府的和平谈判代表会见了许多民族的谈判者。有时，会见是在叛军控制的地区进行的。然而，部族领袖表示，政府对关键的问题迟迟不谈，那就是在更民主的新缅甸，这个已经习惯了数十年自上而下的军政府统治的单一制国家，该如何把权力下放给各部族地区。部族领袖们说，军方由中央发号施令的思维模式似乎没有显示出改变的迹象。在新政府中，军方依然维持着巨大的权力和影响。
“Everybody, including the president, is talking about federalism — except the military,” said Gen. Gun Maw, the deputy chief of staff of the Kachin Independence Army, an ethnic militia that has clashed regularly with government troops.
“包括总统在内的所有人都在谈论联邦制，只有军方除外，”克钦独立军(Kachin Independence Army)副参谋长光莫少将(Gun Maw)说。克钦独立军是一支经常与政府军发生冲突的少数民族民兵武装。
Speaking on the sidelines of peace negotiations in November, General Gun Maw said the government and ethnic groups were “still in the precondition phase of the peace talks.”
在11月的和平谈判的边会上，光莫说，政府和部族团体“依然处在和平谈判的预备阶段”。
Outside observers say they see an overall improvement in the situation in northern Myanmar but are concerned about the continued, periodic clashes between government troops and ethnic forces.
外界观察人士认为，缅甸北部的局势总体上有所改善，但他们对政府军和部族武装之间持续的、周期性的冲突存在忧虑。
A Thai military intelligence officer who is a member of a special task force that deals with border security, said he believes that the Burmese military is pursing a strategy of “clobber, then caress.”
泰国军方的一名情报官员认为，缅甸军方正在运用一种“先猛打、再安抚”的战略。他是负责边境安全问题的特别行动组成员。
“The Burmese government is pretty smart at this,” he said. “They are trying to push and push these groups. And then once tension grows, they propose more talks.”
“缅甸政府在这方面很聪明，”他说，“他们正在不停地打击这些组织。等紧张局势升级，他们就会提议进行更多谈判。”
Thailand is particularly concerned about the situation because of the record seizures of methamphetamines in recent years and the prospect of violence spilling across its borders, as has happened in the past.
泰国对这里的局势格外关切，因为泰国近年来缴获的冰毒频频创下纪录，而且暴力活动可能像过去那样，越过两国边界。
The intelligence officer, who declined to be quoted by name because it would jeopardize his work, said ethnic leaders tell him that “deep down inside they still mistrust the government, especially because the government and military seem to be moving in different directions.”
这名情报人员表示，少数民族领袖告诉他说，“在内心深处，他们依然不信任政府，特别是因为政府和军方似乎方向不统一。”他拒绝公开姓名，因为那样会危及他的工作。
Mr. Ar Thet of the Wa liaison office would not comment on the overall prospects for peace. But he said the security situation had definitely improved in Tachileik during his decade and a half working in the city.
佤族联络办公室的阿德对和平的总体前景未予置评。但他表示，在他在大其力工作的15年里，这里的安全形势绝对改善了。
“When I arrived here there were shootings almost every day,” he said. “Now it’s only once in a while.”
“我刚来的时候，几乎每天晚上都会发生枪击事件，”他说，“现在偶尔才会有。”
An avid golfer, he also plays down the danger of fighting on the fairways.
作为一个狂热的高尔夫爱好者，他还表示在球道上发生冲突的危险没那么夸张。
“During my 15 years here, there has only been one attack on the golf course,” he said.
“我在这儿的15年里，这个高尔夫球场只受到了一次攻击，”他说。