MANILA — A former Philippine president, Joseph Estrada, now the mayor of Manila, hopes to accomplish in the next few weeks what the national government has failed to do in three years: mend strained ties with Hong Kong over a botched hostage rescue attempt in 2010 in which eight tourists from there were killed.
马尼拉——菲律宾前总统、现任马尼拉市市长约瑟夫·埃斯特拉达(Joseph Estrada)希望在今后几周内完成菲律宾政府过去三年都未能完成的一项任务：改善菲律宾与香港之间的紧张关系，事情的起因是菲方在2010年搞砸了一次人质拯救行动，导致八名香港游客被杀。
Tensions have intensified recently, with some in Hong Kong urging new restrictions on the tens of thousands of Filipino housekeepers in the city as they demand an official apology from the Philippines over the deaths.
最近，双方的紧张关系有所加剧，原因是一些香港人要求菲律宾对死者作出正式道歉，同时敦促当局对在香港工作的数万菲佣实行新的限制。
Mr. Estrada plans to travel to Hong Kong in the next few weeks to apologize in person on behalf of Manila for what happened in the city on Aug. 23, 2010, when a dismissed Manila police officer took a bus full of Hong Kong tourists hostage, eventually killing eight and wounding seven others before he was killed by the police.
埃斯特拉达计划在未来几周内前往香港，代表马尼拉市就2010年8月23日发生在该市的事件当面道歉。当时，一名被解雇的马尼拉警察挟持了一辆满载香港游客的大巴车，最终杀死八人，致伤七人，之后才被警方击毙。
“If I can meet with the families, I will apologize personally,” Mr. Estrada said in an interview at his office in Manila City Hall.
在马尼拉市政厅的办公室内接受采访时，埃斯特拉达说，“如果能见到遇害者的亲属，我会当面道歉。”
But Mr. Estrada’s offer may not be enough: The Philippine president, Benigno S. Aquino III, said Wednesday that no formal national apology would be issued, as demanded by some of the victims’ families. “At the end of the day, we submit that the act of one individual should not be construed as the act of the entire nation,” he told reporters.
不过，埃斯特拉达的提议也许还不够：菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)周三表示，菲律宾不会答应某些遇害者亲属的要求，以国家名义正式致歉。他对记者说，“我们最终认定，某一个人的行为不应被视作国家行为。”
The issue has cast a pall over relations between Hong Kong and the Philippines, whose economies are closely intertwined. It also comes amid strained relations with Beijing, which oversees Hong Kong, over contested islands in the South China Sea.
这个问题给香港和菲律宾之间的关系蒙上了一层阴影，尽管两地的经济密不可分。当此之际，因为南海的岛屿争议，菲律宾与管辖香港的中国政府之间的关系也相当紧张。
A Philippine government investigation of the bus shooting found gross negligence on the part of the police and city officials who oversaw the negotiations and eventual assault on the bus during the 10-hour standoff.
菲律宾政府对旅游车枪击事件的调查发现，在长达十小时的对峙中，警方和指挥谈判及最终突袭行动的马尼拉市官员都存在严重过失。
The report found evidence that in the midst of delicate hostage negotiations, Alfredo S. Lim, the Manila mayor at the time, ordered the summary execution of the hostage taker’s brother — a fellow police officer who had been acting as an informal hostage negotiator. Shortly afterward, Mr. Lim left the scene of the crisis and went to dinner.
相关报告发现，有证据表明，在微妙的人质事件谈判期间，时任马尼拉市市长林雯洛(Alfredo S. Lim)下令立即逮捕人质劫持者的弟弟。人质劫持者的弟弟也是一名警察，之前一直充当人质事件的非正式谈判代表。之后不久，林雯洛就离开危机现场吃饭去了。
The gunman, who was monitoring television broadcasts inside the bus, watched as his brother was dragged away by the police, pleading for them to not execute him. Government investigators found that the shooting of the hostages was in part a result of the seemingly imminent execution. (The brother, in the end, was not killed by the police.)
枪手密切注意着车内的电视节目，看到弟弟被警方拖走之后，他请求警方不要处决自己的弟弟。政府调查人员发现，枪手之所以枪杀人质，部分原因正是警方似乎就要处决劫持者的弟弟。（最后，警方并未处决劫持者的弟弟。）
Hong Kong’s government, with the support of the Chinese government, expressed outrage at the handling of the events by the police and the local authorities.
在中国政府的支持下，香港政府对菲律宾警方和当地政府处理此事的方式表达了愤怒。
More than a dozen officials have been charged in administrative or criminal cases with mishandling the crisis.
已有十多名官员因对那次危机处理不当而受到了行政或刑事指控。
On Tuesday, the Manila City Council passed a resolution that offered a formal apology. The Council authorized Mr. Estrada to visit Hong Kong and deliver the apology in person.
周二，马尼拉市议会(Manila City Council)通过一项决议，决定进行正式道歉。议会授权埃斯特拉达前往香港当面道歉。
Mr. Estrada said he would work to raise money from the Manila business community to help compensate the victims’ families.
埃斯特拉达表示，他将从马尼拉商界筹款，帮助赔偿遇难者家庭。