For this week’s Look column, we asked the photographer Massimo Vitali to visit Harbin, China, to take pictures of the Ice and Snow World there. Long days in the extreme cold — temperatures got as low as minus 40 degrees Fahrenheit — made for difficult work.
为了准备本周的Look专栏，我们邀请摄影师马西莫·维塔利(Massimo Vitali)前往中国哈尔滨，为当地的冰雪大世界拍摄照片。长时间的极寒天气——温度有时会降至华氏零下40度——让工作变得十分困难。
“The first 3 or 4 hours of shooting were O.K. with our clothing,” Vitali says, “but with the sun going down and the cold accumulating in your body, at some point in the day, it really became hard. Everyone had face masks — like surgeon’s masks but made of fleece. My assistant and I got them, as after a certain point our mouths and jaws were so cold we couldn’t talk.” 
“穿着我们这身衣服拍摄，头三四个小时还无所谓，”维塔利说，“不过，等到太阳落山，寒气在身体上积聚，一天中的有些时候，就会变得非常艰苦。每个人都戴着口罩——很像外科医生的口罩，但却是用羊毛做的。助理和我也戴了这种口罩，因为一段时间之后，我们的嘴和下巴就会冻得无法说话。”
Vitali was surprised that the festival’s attendees were mostly middle class. “The ticket entrance was just under $50, and the general public must have been fairly wealthy to be able to afford to go, especially for families with children,” he says. “Everybody talks about the very rich Chinese and the very poor workers, but we were in a position to observe a large and thriving middle class. They were totally westernized, and apparently they didn’t spare any expense for their leisure.”  Stacey Baker
让维塔利感到奇怪的是，前来参加游园会的大多是中产阶级。“门票还不到50美元（约合300元人民币），普通大众应该有钱来这里玩，特别是有孩子的家庭，”他说。“每个人都在谈论中国的巨富和赤贫的工人，我们却看到了规模庞大且正在发展的中产阶级。他们已经完全西化，似乎也没有在享受方面省钱。”斯塔塞·贝克(Stacey Baker)
Every winter, hundreds of thousands of tourists visit the Harbin Ice and Snow World in northeast China, near the Songhua River, to see its vast collection of elaborately carved ice structures, many of them illuminated with colorful LEDs. The arduous task of quickly collecting all that ice for an exhibition that opens in early January begins in mid-December, and the ice city has been getting bigger every year. This time around, 180,000 cubic meters of ice were used. Some of the finished sculptures this year, which remain in place until March, are a homage to structures around the world, from the Colosseum to the Empire State Building. Zengyu Wang, the executive manager of the event, says the local government in Harbin dreamed up the festival as a lure to promote winter tourism. When visitors see the ice for the first time, he says, they have one reaction: “Very shocked.” Julie Bosman
每年冬天都有数十万游客来中国东北的松花江畔，游览哈尔滨的冰雪大世界，欣赏大量精心制作的冰雕，其中许多冰雕都装饰着五颜六色的LED灯泡。游园会在1月初开始，迅速收集活动所需冰块的艰巨任务则在12月中旬启动，此外，这座冰城的规模一年比一年大。本届游园会用了18万立方米的冰。今年一些已完成冰雕的原型是世界各地的一些建筑，从斗兽场(Colosseum)到帝国大厦(Empire State Building)。这些雕塑会留在原地，直到3月。冰雪大世界活动的副总指挥王增钰说，哈尔滨政府希望这个活动能带动冬季旅游。他说，生平第一次见到冰时，游客只有一个反应：“非常震惊。”朱莉·博斯曼(Julie Bosman)
Number of visitors to last year’s Ice and Snow World in Harbin, China: 800,000
去年前往中国哈尔滨参加冰雪大世界活动的游客人数：80万
Size of festival: 600,000 square meters
占地面积：60万平方米
Entrance fee: About $50 per person
门票：大约每人50美元