Of all the troubling images from Cairo these days, none could be worse than the pictures of the many civilian casualties. But nearly as disturbing was footage from last week showing an Egyptian police vehicle toppling off the 6th of October Bridge, which spans the Nile in central Cairo. News accounts differed over whether the vehicle was pushed over by protestors or in a panic the driver burst through the bridge railing and plunged into the river. Either way, the bridge was badly damaged, the car was lost, the fate of its passengers unknown.
埃及近日出现了很多令人忧心的情景，其中最糟糕的就是大量平民伤亡的画面。但是，上周的一段录像也差不多同样让人担忧。画面中，一辆埃及警车从“十月六日桥”上坠落。这座横跨尼罗河的桥位于开罗中心。至于这辆车究竟是被抗议者推下去的，还是司机在惊慌中撞断了桥栏冲入河中，媒体的报道各不相同。但不论怎样，这座桥都遭到了严重损坏，警车不见了踪影，车里的人命运未卜。
That picture is a miniature of a country that is already decaying, already facing enormous environmental and population challenges, already desperately in need of development and repair, destroying itself further. Who will pay to heal the human and material wounds Egypt is now inflicting on itself? Even billions of dollars from Gulf nations can’t indefinitely prop up a country of 85 million people, where roughly half the women can’t read. What Egyptians are doing to their nation is sheer madness.
这是一个已经处于衰落中的国家，面临着环境和人口方面的巨大挑战，急需发展和重建，如今却在进一步自我毁灭，而这幅画面正是它现状的缩影。埃及施加于自身的人力和物质方面的种种伤害，会由谁来承担后果？即便是来自海湾国家的数以十亿计的美元资金，也无法无限期地支撑起这个拥有8500万人口的国家，这里有约一半的妇女都不识字。埃及人对他们自己国家所做的事完全是疯狂的。
What’s especially depressing is that the leadership and options needed to reverse these trends don’t seem to be on offer. Egyptians today are being given a choice between a military that seems to want to take Egypt back to 1952, when the army first seized power — and kept those Muslim Brothers in their place — and the Muslim Brothers, who want to go back to 622, to the birth of Islam and to a narrow, anti-pluralistic, anti-women, Shariah-dominated society — as if that is the answer to Egypt’s ills.
尤其令人灰心丧气的是，扭转局势所需的领导力和可选方案看来并不存在。埃及人如今面临两种选择，一面是军方，他们似乎想把埃及带回军方最先夺取政权的1952年，那时他们牢牢地控制着穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的成员，另一面则是穆兄会，他们想让埃及回到伊斯兰文明起点的622年，回到一个狭隘、反多元主义、歧视妇女、伊斯兰教法(Shariah)主导一切的社会，仿佛这就是治愈埃及顽疾的良方。
“Egypt’s striking lesson today is that its two most powerful, organized and trusted groups — the Muslim Brotherhood and the armed forces — both proved to be incompetent in the business of governance,” the political scientist Rami Khouri wrote in The Beirut Daily Star last week. “This is not because they do not have capable individuals and smart and rational supporters; they have plenty of those. It is rather because the ways of soldiers and spirituality are designed for worlds other than governance and equitably providing services and opportunities for millions of people from different religions, ideologies and ethnicities. ... The lack of other organized and credible indigenous groups of citizens that can engage in the political process and shape new constitutional systems is largely a consequence of how military officers, members of tribes, and religious zealots have dominated Arab public life for decades.”
“今日埃及发人深省的教训在于，它的两个最强大、组织最完善、最多人信任的群体——穆斯林兄弟会和军方——在国家治理上的表现都很无能。”政治学家拉米·扈利(Rami Khouri)上周在《贝鲁特每日星报》(The Beirut Daily Star)上撰文称，“这并不是因为它们没有能力强的人以及聪明、理性的支持者；它们有的是。而是因为士兵和圣职人员的使命，并不是治理国家，为不同宗教、意识形态、种族的数以百万计的人民平等地提供服务和机会。……埃及缺少其他能够参与政治进程、打造新宪法体系的，有组织、可信任的本地公民团体，这从很大程度上来说，是几十年来阿拉伯公众生活被军官、部落成员以及宗教狂热分子所把持的结果。”
How true. The Eastern Europeans had had experience with parliamentary democracy in the interwar period. So when communism was lifted in 1989, with the help of the European Union, they made relatively easy transitions to democratic capitalism. The East Asians had decades of dictators, but, unlike those in the Arab world, most of them were modernizers, who focused on building infrastructure, education, entrepreneurship and export-led economies that eventually produced middle classes so broad and educated that they relatively peacefully wrested their freedom from the generals. The East Asians also had Japan as a model — a country that said: “We’re behind, what’s wrong with us? We need to learn from those who are doing better.”
这种描述再真实不过。东欧人在两次世界大战期间尝试过议会民主制。因此，当共产主义在1989年土崩瓦解时，在欧盟(European Union)的帮助下，他们较为容易地完成了向民主资本主义的过渡。东亚人也经历过几十年的独裁统治，但东亚的独裁者与阿拉伯世界的不同，他们重视基础设施建设、教育、创业精神和出口导向的经济，这些最终催生出了为数众多教育程度较高的中产阶级，他们用相对和平的方式从将军们那里争取到了自由。东亚人过去将日本当成榜样，正是这样一个国家曾说出：“我们落后了，我们出了什么问题？我们得向那些做得好的人学习。”
The Arab world did not have the roots of democracy that could quickly blossom or modernizing autocrats, who built broad, educated middle classes that could gradually take control. And it did not have an E.U. to act as a magnet and model. So when the lid came off with the Arab awakening, there was no broad-based progressive movement to effectively compete with the same old, same old: the military and Muslim Brotherhood.
阿拉伯世界缺少民主的根基，这样的根基能很快让民主蓬勃发展，也能令独裁者具有现代化思想，再由这些独裁者来打造出人数众多、教育程度高的中产阶级，他们会逐步取得控制。而且它也没有一个像欧盟那样的组织来凝聚各方并作为典范。所以，当阿拉伯世界的觉醒开始时，这里并没有一个基础广泛的进步运动能够真正地与同样古老的两方——军方和穆斯林兄弟会——进行竞争。
I understand why so many Egyptians turned against the Brotherhood. It was stealing their revolution for its own stale agenda. But the best way to justify ousting the Brotherhood was for the military to put in place a government that really would get Egypt started on the long march to modernization, entrepreneurship, literacy for women and consensual and inclusive politics — inclusive even of Islamists — not another march in place under generals.
我知道为什么会有这么多埃及人反对穆兄会。因为它为了推行自己的腐朽议程而窃取了人民的革命果实。然而，如果想让人认为，把穆兄会赶下台的做法是正确的，军方就最好能推举一个这样的政府，能真正地带领埃及开始迈向现代化、企业家精神、女性教育、政治协商和包容（甚至连伊斯兰主义者也要包括在内）的漫长征程，而不是另一场由军队将领来领导的征程。
Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi installed a cabinet with some good people; it had the potential to give birth to a third way. But before it could take two steps, the army and police launched a campaign to decapitate the Brotherhood that involved, appallingly, the indiscriminate killing of hundreds of unarmed people. The Brotherhood provoked some of this — happy to have some “martyrs” to delegitimize the army’s takeover and change the subject from its own misrule; Brotherhood sympathizers also burned nearly 40 churches and killed some police for good measure.
阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西上将(Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)任命的内阁中有一些出色的人，有可能会产生“第三条道路”。但在该内阁能有所作为之前，军方和警方已对穆兄会展开斩首行动，包括骇人听闻地肆意屠戮手无寸铁的民众，导致死亡者数以百计。穆兄会乐于看到一些“烈士”，这会证明军方的接管为非法的，还会转移对它自身治理不当的批评，可以说它在一定程度上挑起了这样的打击。穆兄会的支持者也烧毁了将近40座教堂，又杀死了一些警察。
So, once again, Egyptians and their friends abroad are being polarized between the same two bad options. The hour is late. General Sisi has got to pull back and empower the cabinet he appointed to produce a third way — an authentically modernizing, inclusive government. That is what the 2011 revolution was about. If he diverts Egypt from that goal, the way the Brotherhood did, if his only ambition is to be another Nasser and not a Mandela, Egypt is headed for a steep plunge, just like that police vehicle tumbling into the Nile.
因此，与以往一样，埃及人和他们在海外的朋友再一次因为两个糟糕选项而分化。而现在已经到了最后的危急关头，塞西上将必须后退一步，赋予他推上台的内阁以权力，来产生“第三条道路”，一个真正进行现代化改革的、包容的政府。这正是2011年革命的目的。如果他将埃及带离这一目标，就像穆兄会曾经做的那样，如果他唯一的野心就是成为另一个纳赛尔(Nasser)，而不是曼德拉(Mandela)，那么埃及将会坠入深渊，就像那部翻入尼罗河的警车。