Apple’s much-hyped product demonstrations used to end with an emphatic “wow!”
苹果(Apple)广泛宣传的的产品展示活动通常会以一声赞叹的“哇”作为结束。
I’m not just talking about the entertainment, like Tony Bennett singing “I Left My Heart in San Francisco” in San Francisco, as he did at an Apple conference four years ago. From iPods to iPhones to iPads, Apple has unveiled genuine game-changing products with emphatic presentations.
四年前，托尼·贝内特(Tony Bennett)曾在苹果会议上演唱《我的心留在旧金山》(I Left My Heart in San Francisco)，而我说的不是这一类的娱乐表演。从iPod到iPhone，再到iPad，苹果公司曾通过引人注目的展示活动推出真正改变游戏规则的产品。
Lately, however, the events have replaced the “wow” with the “boring.”
然而，最近，人们对苹果展示活动的感觉从“哇”变成了“无聊”。
Just look at the reaction from a number of people on Twitter after the company’s iPad announcement on Tuesday. “Boring.” People on Facebook, Google Plus and Tumblr were sharing the same sentiment.
看看苹果公司周二发布iPad后Twitter上一些人的反应就知道了。Facebook、Google Plus和Tumblr的用户都表达了同样的情绪——“无聊”。
It’s not that the content is boring. The products Apple shows off at these events are still interesting — for the most part — but the presentations are getting old.
并不是说内容很无聊。大部分情况下，苹果在新品发布会上展示的产品依旧非常吸引人，但这样的展示已经有点老套了。
Here’s the script: Timothy D. Cook comes out on stage in his signature jeans and black shirt — usually untucked. He shows off some statistics. Then other execs take the microphone to show off new software that we’ve already seen.
脚本是这样的：蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)身穿标志性的牛仔裤和黑衬衫——通常衬衣没有束进裤子里——出现在舞台上。他会展示一些统计数据，然后就由其他管理人员通过麦克风介绍那些我们已经见过的新软件。
There are a few jokes; the audience laughs.
他们还会讲一些笑话，观众也确实会笑。
Then comes Philip W. Schiller, Apple’s head of marketing, who talks about new hardware and confuses everyone by touting an “Intel Xeon E5 chip,” and a “10 MB L3 cache and Turbo Boost,” and “cores” and other things most people know absolutely nothing about. (It’s as if he’s speaking Klingon.)
然后，苹果营销负责人菲利普·W·席勒(Philip W. Schiller)开始介绍新硬件，用“英特尔至强(Intel Xeon)E5芯片”、“10MB的L3存储器和睿频加速技术(Turbo Boost)”以及“内核”之类的东西把大家搞得一头雾水，因为大多数人都对这些东西一无所知。（仿佛他是在说克林贡语似的。）
Then Mr. Cook is back on stage to introduce a new version of an iPad or iPhone or iPod. Then Mr. Schiller again to explain, in Klingon, the guts of the new iPad or iPhone or iPod. Then there’s a video of Jony Ive talking about the new iPad or iPhone or iPod. “It’s the best [iPad or iPhone or iPod] we’ve ever made,” Mr. Ive says in his smooth British accent.
接下来，库克重新上台介绍新款iPad、iPhone或iPod。随后席勒再次用克林贡语对新款iPad、iPhone或iPod的内部配置进行解释。再后来是一段乔尼·艾夫(Jony Ive)介绍新款iPad、iPhone或iPod的视频。艾夫会用圆润的英国腔说，“这是我们做过的最好的（iPad或iPhone或iPod）。”
The shows are like watching someone perform the same magic show over and over. Eventually it stops looking like magic.
看这些表演，感觉就像是反复观看某些人表演同样的魔术。久而久之，它看起来就不再像魔术了。
It’s clear why Apple still hosts these events. They generate buzz for the company’s latest product. But these keynotes were designed by and for Steven P. Jobs, who had a stage presence that Mr. Cook and Mr. Schiller, for all their qualities, do not.
苹果持续举办这样的活动，动机十分明显。它们给公司的最新产品引来了很多关注。然而，这些主题都是史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)为自己设计的，库克和席勒虽然也有自己的特色，但却没有乔布斯的台风。
Showmanship aside, some saw Tuesday’s announcement as another example of a company that is forgetting how to innovate.
除去这些表演技巧不论，有些人认为，周二的发布会再次证明，这家公司正在忘记如何创新。
Apple “has gone from building things consumers never, ever dreamed they would need, to falling short at giving them what they want,” said Moshe Cohen, an assistant professor of finance and economics at Columbia Business School. The problem, he said, is Apple needs more visionaries.
苹果“已经从制造消费者想不到自己会需要的东西，变成了给消费者提供他们想要的东西，”哥伦比亚商学院(Columbia Business School)金融与经济学副教授摩西·科恩(Moshe Cohen)说。他说，问题在于，苹果需要更多富于远见的人。
I’m sure there are plenty of visionaries still working at Apple, which is apparent from the products the company still puts out. But when it comes to these presentations, a return to the “wow!” would serve the company well.
我确信仍有大量富于远见的人士在苹果工作，从公司推出的新产品就可以明显看出这一点。说到这些展示嘛，重新回到“哇”才会对公司有好处。