Think you do just fine on five or six hours of shut-eye? Chances are, you are among the many millions who unwittingly shortchange themselves on sleep.
你是否以为自己每天只睡五六小时也没什么大碍？要知道，有数百万人都在不知不觉中克扣了自己的睡眠，很可能你也是其中之一。
Research shows that most people require seven or eight hours of sleep to function optimally. Failing to get enough sleep night after night can compromise your health and may even shorten your life. From infancy to old age, the effects of inadequate sleep can profoundly affect memory, learning, creativity, productivity and emotional stability, as well as your physical health.
研究表明，大多数人都需要七八个小时的睡眠才能让身体机能保持最佳状态。夜复一夜睡眠不足可能损害你的健康，甚至缩短你的寿命。从呱呱坠地直至垂垂老矣，睡眠不足均可对你的记忆力、学习能力、创造力、生产力、情绪稳定性以及身体健康造成深远影响。
According to sleep specialists at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, among others, a number of bodily systems are negatively affected by inadequate sleep: the heart, lungs and kidneys; appetite, metabolism and weight control; immune function and disease resistance; sensitivity to pain; reaction time; mood; and brain function.
据美国匹兹堡大学医学院(University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine)和西方精神医学研究所与诊所(Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic)的睡眠专家们称，睡眠不足会对某些身体系统造成负面影响，尤其是：心脏、肺和肾脏；食欲、新陈代谢和体重控制；免疫功能和疾病抵抗力；疼痛敏感性；反应时间；情绪；以及脑功能。
Poor sleep is also a risk factor for depression and substance abuse, especially among people with post-traumatic stress disorder, according to Anne Germain, associate professor of psychiatry at the University of Pittsburgh. People with PTSD tend to relive their trauma when they try to sleep, which keeps their brains in a heightened state of alertness.
匹兹堡大学的精神病学副教授安妮·杰曼(Anne Germain)指出，睡眠质量不佳也是发生抑郁症和药物滥用的一个风险因素，对于创伤后应激障碍(PTSD)患者尤其如此。PTSD患者在尝试入睡时很容易回忆起他们所遭受的创伤，这使得他们的大脑持续处于高度警觉的状态。
Dr. Germain is studying what happens in the brains of sleeping veterans with PTSD in hopes of developing more effective treatments for them and for people with lesser degrees of stress that interfere with a good night’s sleep.
杰曼博士目前正在对患有PTSD的退伍军人在睡眠时的脑部活动开展研究，以期开发更有效的治疗方法，造福于这些患者以及受轻度应激困扰而无法一夜安睡的人们。
The elderly are especially vulnerable. Timothy H. Monk, who directs the Human Chronobiology Research Program at Western Psychiatric, heads a five-year federally funded study of circadian rhythms, sleep strength, stress reactivity, brain function and genetics among the elderly. “The circadian signal isn’t as strong as people get older,” he said.
老年人尤为脆弱。西方精神医学研究所与诊所中人类时间生物学研究计划(Human Chronobiology Research Program)的负责人蒂莫西·H·蒙克(Timothy H. Monk)领导了一项由联邦政府资助的为期五年的研究，探讨了老年人的昼夜节律、睡眠强度、应激反应性、脑功能以及遗传学。“随着人们日渐衰老，昼夜节律的信号渐渐减弱，”他说。
He is finding that many are helped by standard behavioral treatments for insomnia, like maintaining a regular sleep schedule, avoiding late-in-day naps and caffeine, and reducing distractions from light, noise and pets.
他还发现，对失眠进行标准的行为学治疗，例如保持规律的作息时间，避免在傍晚时打盹或摄入咖啡因，减少光线、噪声和宠物的干扰等，对很多人都颇有帮助。
It should come as no surprise that myriad bodily systems can be harmed by chronically shortened nights. “Sleep affects almost every tissue in our bodies,” said Dr. Michael J. Twery, a sleep specialist at the National Institutes of Health.
有众多身体系统都会因为长期睡眠不足而受到损害，这不足为奇。美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)的睡眠专家迈克尔·J·特渥利(Michael J. Twery)博士表示：“睡眠几乎影响着我们身体中的每一组织”。
Several studies have linked insufficient sleep to weight gain. Not only do night owls with shortchanged sleep have more time to eat, drink and snack, but levels of the hormone leptin, which tells the brain enough food has been consumed, are lower in the sleep-deprived while levels of ghrelin, which stimulates appetite, are higher.
目前已有若干研究将睡眠不足与体重增加相关联。这不仅是因为夜猫子们睡得少，有更充裕的时间来吃喝，还因为在缺觉期间，他们体内能通知大脑身体已摄入足够食物的激素——瘦素的水平较低，而可刺激食欲的ghrelin激素（胃促生长素，又名饥饿素）水平较高。
In addition, metabolism slows when one’s circadian rhythm and sleep are disrupted; if not counteracted by increased exercise or reduced caloric intake, this slowdown could add up to 10 extra pounds in a year.
此外，当一个人的昼夜节律和睡眠紊乱时，他的新陈代谢就会减慢；如果此时不通过增加运动或减少热量摄入来抵消这种作用，那么一年下来他的体重很可能会额外增加10磅（合4.5千克）。
The body’s ability to process glucose is also adversely affected, which may ultimately result in Type 2 diabetes. In one study, healthy young men prevented from sleeping more than four hours a night for six nights in a row ended up with insulin and blood sugar levels like those of people deemed prediabetic. The risks of cardiovascular diseases and stroke are higher in people who sleep less than six hours a night. Even a single night of inadequate sleep can cause daylong elevations in blood pressure in people with hypertension. Inadequate sleep is also associated with calcification of coronary arteries and raised levels of inflammatory factors linked to heart disease. (In terms of cardiovascular disease, sleeping too much may also be risky. Higher rates of heart disease have been found among women who sleep more than nine hours nightly.)
人体处理葡萄糖的能力也会受到不利影响，这最终可能导致II型糖尿病的发生。在一项研究中，健康的年轻男性连续六夜每夜睡眠都不超过四个小时，其后他们的胰岛素和血糖浓度均达到与糖尿病前期患者相近的水平。在每夜睡眠时间少于六小时的人群中，心血管疾病和中风风险均较高。对于高血压患者，即使仅有一夜睡眠不足也可导致其在随后的一整天里血压居高不下。睡眠不足还与冠状动脉钙化以及心脏疾病相关炎症因子水平升高有关。（就心血管疾病而言，睡眠过多也可能存在风险。现已发现，每晚睡眠超过九小时的女性患心脏病的几率相对较高。）
The risk of cancer may also be elevated in people who fail to get enough sleep. A Japanese study of nearly 24,000 women ages 40 to 79 found that those who slept less than six hours a night were more likely to develop breast cancer than women who slept longer. The increased risk may result from diminished secretion of the sleep hormone melatonin. Among participants in the Nurses Health Study, Eva S. Schernhammer of Harvard Medical School found a link between low melatonin levels and an increased risk of breast cancer.
未能得到充足睡眠的人患癌症的风险很可能也有所升高。一项日本研究在考察了近2.4万名年龄在40至79岁的女性后发现，每晚睡眠不足六小时的女性比睡眠时间较长的女性更容易罹患乳腺癌。这种风险增加有可能是睡眠激素褪黑激素的分泌减少所导致。哈佛医学院的伊娃·S·舍汉摩(Eva S.Schernhammer)发现，在护士健康研究(Nurses Health Study)的参与者中，较低的褪黑激素水平与乳腺癌风险增加之间存在关联。
A study of 1,240 people by researchers at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland found an increased risk of potentially cancerous colorectal polyps in those who slept fewer than six hours nightly.
在克利夫兰市凯斯西储大学(Case Western Reserve University)一项关于1240人的研究中，研究人员发现，每晚睡眠时间少于六小时的人出现具癌变潜能的大肠息肉的风险有所增加。
Children can also experience hormonal disruptions from inadequate sleep. Growth hormone is released during deep sleep; it not only stimulates growth in children, but also boosts muscle mass and repairs damaged cells and tissues in both children and adults.
儿童在睡眠不足时也可能发生激素紊乱。在深度睡眠过程中会释放生长激素；它不仅可促进儿童的生长发育，还可增加儿童和成年人的肌肉量并修复损伤的细胞和组织。
Dr. Vatsal G. Thakkar, a psychiatrist affiliated with New York University, recently described evidence associating inadequate sleep with an erroneous diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children. In one study, 28 percent of children with sleep problems had symptoms of the disorder, but not the disorder.
隶属于纽约大学(New York University)的精神病学家瓦斯塔尔·G·塔克尔(Vatsal G. Thakkar)博士近期报告了一些证据，将睡眠不足与儿童中的注意缺陷多动障碍(ADHD)误诊相关联。在一项研究中，在28%的存在睡眠问题的儿童身上都可观察到ADHD的症状，但他们并非该疾病的真正患者。
During sleep, the body produces cytokines, cellular hormones that help fight infections. Thus, short sleepers may be more susceptible to everyday infections like colds and flu. In a study of 153 healthy men and women, Sheldon Cohen and colleagues at Carnegie Mellon University found that those who slept less than seven hours a night were three times as likely to develop cold symptoms when exposed to a cold-causing virus than were people who slept eight or more hours.
入睡时，人体可产生细胞因子，这是一种有助于抵抗感染的细胞激素。因此，缺觉的人也许更容易患上感冒和流感等常见传染病。在一项对153名健康男性和女性的研究中，卡内基·梅隆大学(Carnegie Mellon University)的谢尔登·科恩(Sheldon Cohen)及其同事发现，在暴露于致感冒病毒中时，夜晚睡眠时间不足七小时的人出现感冒症状的可能性是睡眠时间至少达八小时者的三倍。
Some of the most insidious effects of too little sleep involve mental processes like learning, memory, judgment and problem-solving. During sleep, new learning and memory pathways become encoded in the brain, and adequate sleep is necessary for those pathways to work optimally. People who are well rested are better able to learn a task and more likely to remember what they learned. The cognitive decline that so often accompanies aging may in part result from chronically poor sleep.
睡眠过少所造成的潜在效应可涉及学习、记忆、判断和解决问题等心理过程。在睡眠期间，大脑将编码新的学习和记忆通路，而充足的睡眠对于使这些通路保持最佳工作状态必不可少。得到良好休息的人可以更好地学习新任务，且更容易记住他们学到的新知识。在人衰老时往往伴随着认知能力的下降，而长期睡眠不佳可能是其部分原因。
With insufficient sleep, thinking slows, it is harder to focus and pay attention, and people are more likely to make poor decisions and take undue risks. As you might guess, these effects can be disastrous when operating a motor vehicle or dangerous machine.
睡眠不足时思维缓慢，人们难以集中注意力，就更容易做出错误的决定，承担不必要的风险。可以想见，在开车或操作危险的机器时，这些影响可能带来灾难性的后果。
In driving tests, sleep-deprived people perform as if drunk, and no amount of caffeine or cold air can negate the ill effects.
在驾驶执照考试中，缺乏睡眠者的表现就如同醉酒一样，再多的咖啡因和冷空气都无法消除这种不良影响。
At your next health checkup, tell your doctor how long and how well you sleep. Be honest: Sleep duration and quality can be as important to your health as your blood pressure and cholesterol level.
在你下一次体检时，请告诉医生你的睡眠时间和质量。说句老实话：对于健康来说，睡眠时间和质量与血压和胆固醇水平同样重要。