LONDON — In Britain, there were commemorative poppies by the hundreds of thousands, bright red ceramics that filled the moat of the Tower of London.
伦敦——在英国，几十万作为纪念的鲜红陶瓷罂粟花，插满了伦敦塔的干护城河。
In France, there were names, hundreds of thousands of them, too, engraved in a solemn ring on a hillside that was once a theater of war.
在法国，也是数以几十万记的人名，刻在了曾经的战区山坡下庄严的环形纪念碑上。
In Belgium, schoolchildren and military pipers joined others in a procession to the memorial marking the onetime killing fields of Flanders.
在比利时，学生和军乐队与其他人一起，向标志着佛兰德斯曾经的杀戮场的纪念碑行进。
On Tuesday, Europeans paused on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month, to remember the moment the guns fell silent to end World War I in 1918. In London, the clock of Elizabeth Tower, better known as Big Ben, signaled the beginning of two minutes’ silent reflection that stopped traffic as crowds gathered in Trafalgar Square.
周二，欧洲人在第11个月的第11天的第11个小时中断一切活动，以纪念标志着第一次世界大战于1918年结束的那个枪声沉默的时刻。在伦敦，伊丽莎白塔的大钟（其大笨钟的名称更广为人知）发出信号，让人们开始两分钟的静思，人群聚集在特拉法加广场，交通也停止了。
This year, because it is the centenary of the beginning of the war, the remembrance was particularly poignant, culminating in months of preparation, exhibits and re-examination of a murderous conflict that redefined the very notion of mechanized carnage that killed millions.
因为今年是一战开始的一百周年，经过了几个月的准备工作、举办展览，以及对重新定义了机械化大屠杀、造成数百万人死亡的残忍冲突的再思考之后，纪念停战的活动尤其令人伤感。
And perhaps because of that milestone, magnified by more recent wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, a familiar debate over the nature of remembrance and the place of the past and of patriotism itself in modern society seemed more intense than ever.
也许是因为这个里程碑，再加上伊拉克和阿富汗最近的战争，有关记忆的本质、历史的作用，以及现代社会中爱国主义问题本身的熟悉辩论，似乎比以往任何时候都更加强烈。
“British society divides at this time of year,” the columnist Alex Stevenson wrote in the newspaper Metro, referring to divisions over wearing a commemorative lapel poppy sold by the nonprofit British Legion, and complaining about the social pressures brought to bear by politicians and charities to display one.
“英国社会在每年的这个时刻分裂，”专栏作家亚历克斯·史蒂文森(Alex Stevenson)在《都市报》(Metro)上写道，他指的是佩戴非营利的英国退伍军人协会出售的纪念襟罂粟花的传统，并抱怨政客和慈善机构制造迫使人们展示罂粟花的社会压力。
“Remembrance is important,” he said, “but it’s something that should happen all year around, not just when a national charity campaign tells you to.”
“记忆是重要的，”他说，“但这是全年都应该做的，不只是在一个全国慈善活动叫你这样做的时候。”
It is, of course, a debate not confined to Europe. World War I drew in combatants from the United States and the farthest reaches of empires.
这当然不是一个只局限于欧洲的辩论。第一次世界大战牵涉到来自美国和曾经的大英帝国最遥远角落的战士。
In London, the installation of the ceramic poppies around the Tower of London was intended as a memorial to the 888,246 British and colonial soldiers who died. The poppies have already been sold for 25 pounds each, around $40, to raise money for charity. Initially, the installation, called “Blood Swept Lands and Seas of Red” by the artist Paul Cummins and the set designer Tom Piper, was supposed to be dismantled starting on Tuesday.
在伦敦的伦敦塔周围布置的陶瓷罂粟花，是为了纪念英国及其殖民地的888246名阵亡士兵。为了给慈善机构募捐，罂粟花以每只25英镑(约合244元人民币)的价格出售。最初，这个由艺术家保罗·康明斯(Paul Cummins)和布景设计师汤姆·派珀(Tom Piper)创造的、名为“血染的土地、红色的海洋”的艺术装置本该在周二开始拆除。
But such was the crush of people who wanted to see it that parts of the display will remain until the end of the month.
但是，希望能来观看的人如此之多，以至于这个艺术装置的部分将保留到本月底。
For many years, Armistice Day has been celebrated by nations with a focus on their own dead, but the poppies — like the so-called Ring of Remembrance in northern France — offer a broader sense of participation in the war and in loss.
多年来，各国的停战纪念日活动主要关注本国的死者，但与法国北部所谓的“纪念之环”(Ring of Remembrance)一样，陶瓷罂粟花代表了战争中更广泛的参与和损失。
“New generations must understand that the fight for peace is never over,” President François Hollande of France was quoted as saying in an interview with a newspaper in northern France, where the newest memorial was unveiled on Tuesday at the Notre-Dame-de-Lorette military cemetery, near Arras.
法国北部一份报纸对法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德的采访报道中引用他的话说，“新的一代必须明白，为了和平的战斗永远不会结束。”这个新纪念碑周二在阿拉斯附近的洛雷特圣母军人公墓揭幕。
The monument tallies the names of 579,606 fallen soldiers but, unusually, it cuts across national identities, and even the parameters of the war, recording the names of military personnel from France, Britain, Germany and other nations on hundreds of gold steel plates, without alluding to their nationality or rank.
纪念碑上刻着579606名阵亡士兵的名字，但与以往不同的是，它超越了国家身份，甚至超越了战争规范，在数百个金钢板上刻下的来自法国、英国、德国以及其他国家的军事人员的姓名，没有给出他们的国籍或军衔。
The unveiling, Mr. Hollande said, aimed to be “a profoundly human gesture as well as a message of hope for all who today fight so that peace and law triumph everywhere in the world.”
奥朗德说，这个纪念碑旨在成为“一个彻底的人性表达，同时也给今天所有的战士带来一个希望的信息，他们为之而战的和平与法律将在世界各地最终获得胜利。”