One morning in September, I logged on to the website of HelloMD, a medical startup that promises to connect patients with doctors instantly over the Internet. I filled out my personal details, explained my ailment — I often get heartburn — and entered in my credit card number to cover the $50 consultation fee.
9月的一个上午，我登录了HelloMD网站。这家医疗初创公司承诺帮助病人通过网络直接与医生联系。我填写了个人信息，说明了自己的病情——我经常出现烧心的情况——并输入我的信用卡号支付50美元的咨询费。
Within 10 minutes, a pediatrician based near Washington, D.C., who is licensed to practice medicine in my home state of California popped up on my screen. She appeared to be sitting in her home — there were a few teddy bears and ceramic figurines on a cabinet behind her — and she wore a red shirt, not the traditional white coat.
不到10分钟，一名在华盛顿特区附近的儿科医生出现在电脑屏幕上。这名医生在我的家乡加利福尼亚州获得了行医许可。她似乎是坐在家中——背后的橱柜里摆了几个泰迪熊和陶瓷雕塑——她穿着红色衬衣，而不是传统的白大褂。
The doctor asked about my medical history, current symptoms and familiarity with certain medicines. The interview lasted about three minutes, after which she announced what everyone who visits HelloMD expects to hear: According to her diagnosis, my heartburn made me a candidate for medical marijuana, which has been legal in California since 1996.
医生询问我的病史、目前的症状，以及对某些药物的熟悉度。对话持续了大约三分钟，然后她宣布了HelloMD网站访客都想听到的消息：根据她的诊断，我的烧心病情使我可以使用医用大麻。医用大麻自1996年以来在加州已合法化。
HelloMD is at the forefront of a new trend in Silicon Valley: the cannabis tech startup. As marijuana laws are being loosened across the country, entrepreneurs and investors are creating new businesses to cash in on what they see as an emerging bonanza. Like startups in other industries, these firms are trying to use technology to bring speed and efficiency to what has long been a face-to-face, pen-and-paper market. In the process, they are also trying to alter mainstream perceptions of the marijuana industry, shedding the ganja and Rasta imagery to cultivate a wider audience.
HelloMD网站处于硅谷一股新趋势的最前沿：大麻科技初创企业。随着全美各地放宽大麻法案，创业者和投资者在创立新公司来通过他们眼中的这个新兴财源赚钱。就像其他产业的初创公司一样，这些企业试图利用技术给长期以来的面对面、纸笔呈现病历的市场带来速度与效率。在这个过程中，他们还试图改变有关大麻产业的主流看法，使之摆脱与拉斯特法里派有关的传统形象，培养更广泛的受众。
“What we see is moms, dads, professionals, old people, everyone wanting access to cannabis,” said Mark Hadfield, founder of HelloMD. “The old type of experience — go to a crummy dispensary, wait in line — was not going to appeal to the market that we were after, which is everyday Americans, a market that, by the way, is much larger than the old market of — I don't want to call them stoners, but let's say, `recreationally minded young people.”'
“我们看到每个人都想获得大麻，母亲、父亲、专业人士和老人，”HelloMD网站创始人马克·哈德菲尔德(Mark Hadfield)说。“旧式的经历——前往破烂的药房排队——不会吸引我们寻求的普通美国人的市场。顺便说一下，这个市场的规模远大于旧市场——我不想叫他们‘瘾君子’，还是叫‘喜欢消遣的年轻人’吧。”
People in the marijuana industry have lately taken to saying that legal marijuana is the next Internet, an untrammeled new market opportunity that is just waiting for its own big brands, the Google and Facebook of pot. But many businesses are also finding that, in an environment of only partial legality, not everything in the marijuana business is smooth sailing.
大麻产业的从业人员最近甚至开始声称，合法大麻就是下一个互联网，一种无法阻挡的新市场机会，在等待出现自己的大品牌——大麻产业的谷歌(Google)和Facebook。但很多公司也发现，在目前的部分合法的环境中，大麻产业并不是所有事情都会一帆风顺。
Proponents for legalization expect a handful of states to vote on ballot measures to legalize the recreational use of marijuana in the 2016 election. The biggest prize is California, where a wealthy coalition of advocates, including Sean Parker, co-founder of Napster and the former president of Facebook, is pushing for recreational legalization.
大麻合法化的支持者希望五六个州在2016年的选举中通过公投促使消遣用大麻合法化。最值得争取的是加州。Napster联合创始人、Facebook前总裁肖恩·帕克(Sean Parker)等富人组成的倡导联盟正在推动消遣用大麻合法化。
“California is the biggest domino,” said Justin Hartfield, founder and chief executive of Weedmaps, a kind of Yelp for marijuana dispensaries, who is also backing the California initiative. “Once California goes legal, very shortly after we'll have a majority of states where adult-use is legal.”
“加州是最大的多米诺骨牌，”Weedmaps创始人兼首席执行官、加州计划支持者贾斯汀·哈特菲尔德(Justin Hartfield)说。“一旦大麻在加州合法，不久之后，大多数州都会实现成人使用合法。”该公司是针对大麻药店的类似Yelp的平台。
The ArcView Group, a company that connects investors to cannabis businesses, estimates the U.S. legal cannabis industry generated $2.4 billion in sales in 2014, up 74 percent from 2013. Legalization will lead to continued growth of at least double-digit percentage points for the rest of the decade, according to Troy Dayton, the chief executive of the ArcView Group.
据帮助投资者投资大麻公司的ArcView Group估计，美国合法大麻产业2014年的销售额达到24亿美元，比2013年上升了74%。公司首席执行官特洛伊·戴顿(Troy Dayton)认为，合法化将促使大麻销售在这十年剩下的时间里以每年至少两位数百分点的比率持续增长。
“This is already the fastest-growing industry in America, and when these new markets come online, the impact will be huge,” Dayton said.
“这已经是美国增长最快的产业了。这些新市场上线后，会产生巨大影响，”戴顿表示。
And when millions of new customers flood into the marijuana business, tech companies will be lining up to offer them an easy way to find a hit. They've already made it pretty simple: After getting my prescription, I didn't have to do much more to get some drugs.
当成百上千万新顾客涌入大麻产业时，科技公司将一窝蜂地为他们提供找到大麻的便捷途径。他们已经让这个过程变得相当简单了：拿到处方后，我不需要再做更多事情就能获取大麻。
HelloMD emailed me a letter, a “medical recommendation” that is the technical equivalent of a medical marijuana prescription, stating that “this patient has been diagnosed with a serious medical condition, and that the medical use of marijuana is appropriate.” Using Weedmaps, I found a service that would deliver marijuana to my house. After uploading a picture of my driver's license and the HelloMD letter to the dispensary, I was cleared to order from a voluminous online menu.
HelloMD给我发了一封邮件，这份“医疗建议”在技术层面上相当于一份医用大麻处方，表明“这名病人被诊断出患有严重疾病，适宜使用医用大麻”。我通过Weedmaps发现了一项送大麻上门的服务。在向药店上传驾驶证和HelloMD信件的照片后，我就可以在网上提供的大量选择中进行挑选订购。
I chose a Shatter Tank, a $100 pen-shaped electronic cannabis-extract vaporizer (even when it comes to drugs, I choose the techie route). About an hour after placing my order, a young man who bore the faint smell of a joint rang my doorbell and handed me the package. The entire process was easier than ordering a pizza. I've since forgotten about my heartburn (which I really do have — though of course, it's entirely possible that many HelloMD patients could be stretching the truth about their ailments).
我选择了100美元的Shatter Tank笔状大麻提取物电子雾化器（即便是嗑药，我也选择走技术宅路线）。在我下单大约一小时后，一名散发微弱大麻气味的年轻男子按响门铃，交给我一个包裹。整个过程比订披萨还简单。然后，我便忘记了自己的烧心症状（当然，我确实有这种疾病，但很多使用HelloMD的病患完全有可能夸大自己的病情）。
In April, Founders Fund, the venture capital firm co-founded by investor Peter Thiel, made a multimillion-dollar investment in Privateer Holdings, a Seattle company that manages several marijuana businesses. Among Privateer's companies is Leafly, a site that offers news and reviews of various marijuana products, and Tilray, which researches and cultivates marijuana crops at a state-of-the-art grow facility in Canada.
今年4月，由彼得·蒂尔(Peter Thiel)联合创立的风险投资公司创始人基金(Founders Fund)向Privateer Holdings投资数百万美元。这家位于西雅图的企业管理着几家大麻公司，其中包括Leafly和Tilray。前者是一家提供各种大麻产品信息和评测的网站，后者在加拿大先进的种植基地研究并培育大麻作物。
Brendan Kennedy, one of Privateer's founders and its chief executive, worked for years in Silicon Valley finance, and he began researching the cannabis business after chatting with a potential client.
公司创始人之一、首席执行官布伦丹·肯尼迪(Brendan Kennedy)在硅谷金融界工作多年。在与一名潜在客户聊完天后，他开始研究大麻业务。
“After looking into the industry, we quickly realized that this is no longer, and hasn't been for years, a countercultural product,” Kennedy said. There was opportunity, he added, because “the brands that were out there tended to embrace the clichés of the industry.”
肯尼迪说，“在研究了这个产业后，我们立即认识到，大麻不再是，而且多年来已经不是一种反文化产品了。”他还说，其中还有商机，因为“现有的品牌往往全盘采用业界的老一套”。
Privateer's ultimate goal is to become something like the Anheuser-Busch InBev — or maybe even the Coca-Cola — of pot: The friendly, widely recognizable face of an everyday pastime.
公司的最终目标是成为大麻产业的安海斯-布希英博集团(Anheuser-Busch InBev)，乃至可口可乐(Coca-Cola)：一个知名度高的、友好的日常消遣品牌。
“Everything in this industry is harder,” Kennedy said. “Things that would be check-the-box items for any Silicon Valley technology company, like opening a bank account or hiring a marketing firm or finding a lawyer to represent you, becomes a three- or four-month project in this business.”
“业界的每一件事都在变得更加艰难，”肯尼迪说。“对于硅谷的任何技术公司来说，那些轻而易举的事情，比如开设银行账户、雇佣营销公司或找代理律师，在这个行业都会变成长达三四个月的大项目。”
And because the federal government considers marijuana illegal, many cannabis companies are not allowed to write off business expenses on their tax returns. “Every other industry only pays taxes on their profits,” said AJ Gentile, the chief executive of the marijuana delivery company SpeedWeed, which serves the Los Angeles area. “I have to pay federal tax on gross revenue.”
由于联邦政府将大麻视作违法，很多大麻公司不能在纳税申报单上冲销营业费用。“其他产业只为利润缴税，”大麻运送公司SpeedWeed的首席执行官A·J·金泰尔(AJ Gentile)说。“我得为营业总收入缴纳联邦税。”这家公司在洛杉矶地区配送大麻。
SpeedWeed delivers about 200 orders a day and it is growing, but Gentile isn't sure about the prospects of his business. “If you factor all these extra costs in, the margins become very small,” he said.
SpeedWeed每天运送大约200单货品，业务不断增长，但金泰尔对公司的前景并没有把握。“如果将所有额外的费用计算在内，利润会变得很小，”他说。
But legalization looms — and with it, Gentile and other entrepreneurs hope for a wave of new customers and investors, and a widespread cultural acceptance of weed.
但大麻合法的那一天并不远了。合法化后，金泰尔和其他创业者希望能涌现一批新顾客和投资者，推动文化上对大麻的广泛接受。