Three previously unpublished short stories by J. D. Salinger have appeared online for the first time, apparently after an unauthorized edition of the stories was sold on eBay and its pages were scanned and uploaded, Buzzfeed reported.
Buzzfeed报道称，近日，J·D·塞林格(J. D. Salinger)三篇未发表的短篇小说首次在网上露面，这似乎是因为有人扫描了eBay上销售的未授权版本，然后把它传到了网上。
The stories — “The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls,” “Birthday Boy” and “Paula” — seem to have been copied from original Salinger manuscripts held by the Princeton University Library and the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas and published in a 25-copy edition privately printed without Salinger’s approval in London in 1999.
这三篇小说——《满是保龄球的海洋》 (The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls)、《生日男孩》(Birthday Boy)和《葆拉》(Paula)——似乎来自普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)图书馆和德州大学(University of Texas)哈里·兰塞姆中心(Harry Ransom Center)所保存的塞林格原始手稿；1999年，手稿内容在未经塞林格同意的情况下偷偷在伦敦印制，当时一共印了25本。
A copy of that edition was sold on eBay in September for 67 British pounds (about $110 at the time), and on Nov. 27, a commenter on the social news site Reddit announced that the stories had been “leaked” onto an invitation-only music file-sharing site. Before the end of the day, they had found their way onto the wider Web.
9月，一本该版本的书在eBay上以67英镑（当时约合110美元）出售；11月27日，有人在社会新闻网站Reddit的评论栏中宣布，这几篇小说被“泄露”到了一个只有被邀请才能加入的音乐文件分享网站。当天结束以前，它们在更大的网络空间得到扩散。
In an article in The Los Angeles Times, the book critic David L. Ulin wrote that he had read two of the stories — “Birthday Boy” and “Paula” — in the collection of the Ransom Center and could vouch for the authenticity of the versions posted online. Kenneth Slawenski, a Salinger scholar, told Buzzfeed that he had read those two stories as well as “The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls” — a story about the final day in the life of Holden Caulfield’s younger brother and so a precursor of sorts to “The Catcher in the Rye” — and also believed that the versions online were accurate copies.
书评家戴维·L·尤林(David L. Ulin)在《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)的一篇文章中说，他在兰塞姆中心读过其中两个故事——《生日男孩》和《葆拉》，所以他可以担保网上的版本是真的。研究塞林格的学者肯尼思·斯拉温斯基(Kenneth Slawenski)告诉Buzzfeed，他既读过这两篇故事，也读过《满是保龄球的海洋》——这个故事讲述了霍尔顿·考菲尔德(Holden Caulfield)的弟弟生命的最后一天，所以很像是《麦田里的守望者》(The Catcher in the Rye)的前传——他也认为网上的版本与原文没有出入。
The appearance of the stories would undoubtedly have enraged Salinger, who died at 91 in 2010 and worked very hard to prevent people from publishing anything he had written (or conceived) that he didn’t want published. Unauthorized copies of his published but uncollected magazine fiction have circulated like samizdat for years, but the existence of the edition of the three stories was not widely known until now. A new film and book about Salinger this year claimed that he instructed his estate to publish at least five new books starting as early as 2015. Salinger’s family has declined to comment on that claim.
毫无疑问，这些故事的面世会让塞林格十分愤怒。2010年，塞林格逝世，享年91岁，他一直都在努力阻止人们发表任何他已经完成（或正在构思的），但却不愿意发表的作品。有人收集了他零散发表在杂志上的小说，并在未经授权的情况下进行印制，多年来，这些作品就像地下出版物一样在传播，但是此前知道这三篇小说的合集的人并不多。今年一部关于塞林格的新电影和一本书宣称，他曾让自己的遗产代理人从2015年开始，至少出版五本新书。塞林格的家人拒绝就此置评。