The Chinese public is digging deep for portents of the Communist Party’s anticorruption campaign in President Xi Jinping’s recent lunch at a popular steamed bun restaurant in western Beijing.
中国国家主席习近平最近在北京西城区一家广受欢迎的包子铺吃了一顿午餐，这件事释放的与中共反腐运动有关的信息正在成为中国公众深度挖掘的对象。
Shortly after noon on Saturday, Mr. Xi and several associates arrived at the restaurant in a residential area near the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse. Mr. Xi lined up with the busy lunch crowd and ordered six steamed buns filled with pork and spring onions, a bowl of stir-fried pig liver and a plate of vegetables, for a total cost of 21 renminbi, about $3.50.
周六午后不久，习近平和几名随行人员抵达了位于钓鱼台国宾馆附近居民区内的这家餐厅。习近平和大批前来用餐的顾客一起排队，他点了六个猪肉大葱馅的包子、一碗炒肝和一盘蔬菜，共消费人民币21元，约合3.5美元。
“Everyone was very excited,” He Yuanli, the restaurant’s manager, was quoted as saying by state media. “The general secretary was smiling the entire time.”
中国国有媒体援引店长贺媛丽的话说，“大家都特别激动，总书记一直笑着。”
After carrying his tray to one of the 60 tables in the restaurant, Mr. Xi was surrounded by other customers and waiters. The state-run People’s Daily newspaper ran a photo of Mr. Xi with his arm around a boy’s shoulders. Mr. Xi said food safety must be guaranteed.
这家餐厅共有60张桌子，在端着托盘到一张桌子旁坐下之后，习近平身边围满了顾客和服务员。官方的《人民日报》刊登了习近平用胳膊搂着一个小男孩肩膀的照片。习近平说，一定要注意食品安全。
The cashier, Guo Xueqin, said she was “shocked” to see the president. Zhu Yuling, the general manager of the bun restaurant chain, said the president had not told the restaurant in advance of his plan to visit, according to the state media.
收银员郭雪琴说，她看到主席时都“懵了”。据国有媒体报道，这家包子铺连锁企业的总经理朱玉玲说，主席在来之前没打招呼。
While photos of the presidential lunch fill pages of Weibo, China’s Twitter-like social media site, users are trying to “crack the code” of the three simple food items for signals regarding the president’s anticorruption campaign.
在中国与Twitter类似的社交媒体新浪微博的页面上几乎被习近平这顿午餐的图片占满，而微博用户们则在努力破解这三种普通食物的密码，试图获得与主席发起的反腐运动有关的信号。
According to one theory, the name of the steamed bun shop, “Qingfeng,” which means “celebrating the harvest” but sounds like the Chinese words for “clear wind” and evokes an honest government official who never takes bribes, suggests the qualities Mr. Xi wants all government officials to uphold as a standard.
一位微博用户说，包子铺名为“庆丰”，本意是“庆祝丰收”，在中国与“清风”谐音，让人联想起两袖清风的官员，这暗示了习主席想要所有政府官员都做到这一点。
Another says the stir-fried pig liver means that any government officials who demonstrate pig-like greed will be “fried,” which can mean to be fired in Chinese.
还有人说，炒肝意味着，像猪一样贪婪的干部会被“炒”，也就是会被开除。
The green vegetables Mr. Xi ordered, called “jiecai,” sound like the Chinese phrase “beware of wealth” — a possible warning to all officials to resist the temptation of financial gain.
习近平点的绿色蔬菜叫做芥菜，与“戒财”谐音——可能是警告全体官员，拒绝财务利益的诱惑。
The translucent filling of fatty pork and spring onion signifies transparency. And it is no coincidence, says one theory, that the meal cost 21 renminbi, the sum of three times seven. This is because the Chinese saying “It doesn’t matter if three times seven is 21” means that whatever is going to happen is going to happen.
肥猪肉和大葱调成的半透明包子馅代表着一清二白。有人说，这顿饭花了21元不是巧合。因为中国有句俗语叫做“不管三七二十一”，意思是不论结果如何，一定要放手一搏。
“President Xi is saying government officials must stay clean and transparent, otherwise they will all get fired!” concludes this theory.
这种说法的结论是，“习近平的真实用意是，官员们必须保持廉洁透明，否则都得被炒！”
“If you are a corrupt official, the president will finish you like he did his lunch!” said another Weibo user. 
另一名微博用户说，“如果你是一个贪官，主席会像对待午餐一样把你解决掉！”