For more than five years now, as Western terrorism investigators have searched for critical influences behind the latest jihadist plot, one name has surfaced again and again.
五年多以来，西方反恐调查人员在搜寻最新圣战阴谋背后的关键影响因素时，有一个名字反复出现。
In the failed attack on an airliner over Detroit in 2009, the stabbing of a British member of Parliament in London in 2010, the lethal bombing of the Boston Marathon in 2013 and now the machine-gunning of cartoonists and police officers in Paris, Anwar al-Awlaki has proved to be a sinister and durable inspiration.
2009年，飞临底特律的一个航班险遭恐怖袭击；2010年，一名英国下议院议员在伦敦被刺伤；2013年，波士顿马拉松赛发生爆炸，导致人员伤亡；到了现在，巴黎的一群漫画家及警员遭到扫射。在这些事件中，安瓦尔·奥拉基(Anwar al-Awlaki)被证明是鼓动袭击的一个邪恶且持久的人物。
Two of those four attacks took place after Mr. Awlaki, the silver-tongued, American-born imam who joined Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen, was killed by a C.I.A. drone strike in September 2011.
这名在美国出生的伊玛目能言善辩，加入了基地组织(Al Qaeda)的也门分支。在上述四起袭击事件中，有两起发生在奥拉基于2011年9月遭中央情报局(CIA)无人机空袭身亡之后。
In the age of YouTube, Mr. Awlaki’s death — or martyrdom, in the view of his followers — has hardly reduced his impact. The Internet magazine Inspire, which he oversaw along with another American, Samir Khan, has continued to spread not just militant rhetoric but also practical instructions on shooting and bomb-making.
在YouTube时代，奥拉基的死——在他的追随者眼中，这是一种殉教行为——几乎没有削弱他的影响力。奥拉基与另一名美国公民萨米尔·汗(Samir Khan)共同负责的网络杂志《激励》(Inspire)不仅继续传播激进言论，还提供有关射击和制造炸弹的实践指导。
In effect, Mr. Awlaki has become a leading brand name in the world of armed jihad. He operated mainly in English, the language of global commerce, and has helped attract a diverse group of volunteers. The four attacks were carried out by a Nigerian banker’s son, a British college student, two Chechen immigrants to Massachusetts and two Frenchmen of Algerian background. His pronouncements continue to provide a supposed religious rationale for thuggish acts vehemently denounced by the overwhelming majority of Muslims and Islamic authorities.
实际上，奥拉基已经成为信奉武力圣战的群体中声名远扬的标志性人物。他主要说英语——全球商务领域通用的语言——还帮助吸引了背景各异的志愿者。这四起袭击事件的实施者中，包括一名尼日利亚银行业高层的儿子、一名英国大学生、两名在马萨诸塞州生活的车臣移民，以及两名阿尔及利亚裔法国人。奥拉基的宣言仍旧为他们的残暴行径提供了某种宗教依据，而此类行为受到大多数穆斯林及伊斯兰当局的强烈谴责。
Mr. Awlaki also became the face in the West of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, or A.Q.A.P., as it is widely known. Against the odds, the group, which was formally created in early 2009 by Yemeni and Saudi militants, has supplanted Al Qaeda’s old core in Pakistan as the terrorist organization most feared by the United States and now, perhaps, by Europe as well.
在西方国家，奥拉基还成为了阿拉伯半岛基地组织（Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula，通常简称AQAP）的代表。2009年初，也门及沙特阿拉伯的激进分子正式创立了阿拉伯半岛分支。尽管困难重重，该分支还是取代了基地组织在巴基斯坦的旧的核心力量，成为最让美国——或许现在也是最让欧洲——担心的恐怖团体。
Since it split with Al Qaeda a year ago, the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, has seized the international spotlight, first with territorial gains and more recently with beheadings of journalists and other hostages. But if A.Q.A.P. was behind the machine-gunning in Paris of cartoonists and editors at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, then Al Qaeda may have regained the publicity advantage in its rancorous rivalry with its offshoot.
自一年前与基地组织分道扬镳以来，伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）已经成为了国际社会关注的焦点，起初是凭借占据土地的活动，最近则是靠斩首记者等人质的行为。不过，如果AQAP的确是针对巴黎的讽刺刊物《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)的漫画家及编辑的射杀行动的幕后主使，那么基地组织可能已在与其衍生组织的恶性竞争中重新获得了宣传优势。
The evidence that Yemen’s Al Qaeda branch, and the late Mr. Awlaki, had a role in preparations for the Paris assault has accumulated steadily since Wednesday’s shootings. The two gunmen, identified by the French police as the brothers Saïd and Chérif Kouachi, seemed determined to attach the A.Q.A.P.-Awlaki label to their shooting spree.
自周三发生射杀事件以来，有越来越多的证据表明，基地组织的也门分支及已故的奥拉基与巴黎袭击案的筹备工作有牵连。法国警方确认，袭击者是赛义德(Saïd)和谢里夫·库瓦奇(Chérif Kouachi)兄弟二人。这两名持械歹徒似乎决意将他们的枪击行为贴上AQAP和奥拉基的标签。
An eyewitness heard the brothers yell to passers-by at the shooting scene to “tell the media that this is Al Qaeda in Yemen.” They reportedly told the driver of a car they hijacked that their attack was in revenge for Mr. Awlaki’s death.
一名目击者听到库瓦奇兄弟对路过枪击现场的人喊道，“告诉媒体，我们是基地组织也门分支。”据称，他们对自己劫持的车辆的司机表示，开展袭击是为了替奥拉基报仇。
Intelligence officials and eyewitnesses said the older brother, Saïd Kouachi, 34, had spent time in Yemen between 2009 and 2012, getting firearms training from the Qaeda branch and, according to some reports, meeting with Mr. Awlaki. According to a Yemeni journalist, Mohamed al-Kibsi, Saïd Kouachi roomed briefly in the Yemeni capital, Sana, with Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who tried to blow up an airliner over Detroit on Christmas Day in 2009 with explosives hidden in his underwear. Mr. Abdulmutallab, who is now serving a life sentence in federal prison, told the F.B.I. that his plot was approved and partly directed by Mr. Awlaki.
情报官员及目击者表示，34岁的哥哥赛义德·库瓦奇曾于2009年至2012年期间在也门待过一段时间，接受该基地组织分支的武器训练。还有一些报道称，他在此期间曾与奥拉基见面。据也门记者穆罕默德·基卜西(Mohamed al-Kibsi)透露，在该国首都萨那，赛义德·库瓦奇曾在短期内与奥马尔·法鲁克·阿卜杜勒穆塔拉卜(Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab)共住一室。后者在2009年圣诞节试图利用藏在内衣中的炸药炸毁飞临底特律的一个航班，目前被终身监禁在美国的联邦监狱中。阿卜杜勒穆塔拉卜告诉FBI，他的行动获得了奥拉基的批准，而且在一定程度上由他指导。
And Chérif Kouachi, 32, in a brief telephone interview with a French television reporter before he was killed with his brother on Friday, firmly associated the attack with A.Q.A.P. and its former propagandist.
上周五，32岁的谢里夫·库瓦奇和哥哥一同被击毙。此前接受法国电视台一名记者简短的电话采访时，谢里夫坚决地将袭击行动与AQAP及奥拉基联系在一起。
“Awlaki’s name still pops up pretty often in cases of Western radicals, but given the amount of time since his death, it is unusual to see a case where the suspects actually met him,” said J. M. Berger, a fellow with the Brookings Institution’s project on American relations with the Islamic world who has studied Mr. Awlaki. “It reflects the long lead time on this plot. We may never know if this attack was formulated back then, or if the targets or particulars changed over time.”
“奥拉基的名字依旧经常出现在与西方激进分子有关的案件中，但鉴于他几年前就被击毙了，嫌疑人真的见过奥拉基本人的情况是相当罕见的，” 布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)美国与伊斯兰世界关系项目的研究员J·M·伯杰(J.M. Berger)说。“这反映出此次计划经过了长时间的准备。我们可能永远都不会知道，这起袭击事件是不是当时策划的，或者袭击目标及细节是否随着时间的推移而有所改变。”伯杰一直在对奥拉基进行研究。
American Origins
美国国籍
Mr. Awlaki was born in New Mexico in 1971 while his Yemeni father was a graduate student, went with his family to Yemen at the age of 7 and returned to the United States at 19 to study engineering at Colorado State University. He discovered a knack for preaching and spent eight years as a highly successful imam at mosques in Denver, San Diego and Washington, where he preached at the Capitol and was a luncheon speaker at the Pentagon.
奥拉基于1971年出生在美国新墨西哥州，父亲是也门人，当时在念研究生。7岁时，他随家人迁往也门，并于19岁返回美国，在科罗拉多州立大学(Colorado State University)念工程学。他发现自己擅长宣教，并在丹佛、圣迭戈和华盛顿的清真寺当了八年非常成功的伊玛目。在华盛顿时，他曾去国会传教，还在五角大楼担任过午餐会发言人。
He came under F.B.I. scrutiny briefly in 1999 for contacts with known militants, and again in 2002 when agents discovered that three of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers had worshiped in his mosques. The national Sept. 11 commission raised the possibility that Mr. Awlaki was part of a support network for the hijackers, but the F.B.I. concluded that he had no prior knowledge of the plot.
1999年，他因为与已知的激进分子接触而受到了联邦调查局(FBI)的简短调查；2002年，FBI工作人员发现头一年的“9·11”事件中有三名劫机者曾在他的清真寺做礼拜，再次对他进行了调查。调查“9·11”事件的全国性委员会指出，奥拉基有可能参与了劫机者的支持网络，但FBI得出的结论是，他事先对该计划并不知情。
In 2002, Mr. Awlaki moved to London, where he became a popular speaker and flirted more openly with militancy. After moving to Yemen in 2004, he began to espouse violent jihad against the United States and other countries he labeled enemies of Islam.
2002年，奥拉基搬到伦敦，在那里成为了一个颇受欢迎的宣教者，而且开始更公开地表现出对激进主义的推崇。2004年移居也门之后，他开始支持暴力圣战，对象是美国，以及其他一些被他称为伊斯兰教敌人的国家。
‘Operational’ Terrorist
“正在行动的”恐怖分子
After the underwear bomb fizzled, President Obama, judging that the cleric was now an “operational” terrorist, sought and received a Justice Department legal opinion declaring that killing him without a trial, despite his American citizenship, would violate neither the law nor the Constitution. During a 17-month manhunt, Mr. Awlaki called for the murder of cartoonists who insulted the Prophet Muhammad and helped A.Q.A.P. send bombs in printer cartridges to the United States on cargo planes; a Saudi tip foiled the plan. But the cleric’s followers kept getting arrested, including Roshonara Choudhry, who said, after listening to more than 100 hours of Mr. Awlaki’s lectures, that she had stabbed a member of Parliament who had voted in favor of the Iraq war.
在内衣炸弹的计划失败后，奥巴马总统判定这名神职人员已是“正在行动的”恐怖分子，并希望司法部能签署法律意见书，宣布在不进行审判的情况下处死他——虽然他是美国公民——既不违法，也不违宪，司法部后来也确实这样做了。追捕行动持续了17个月，期间奥拉基呼吁要杀死侮辱先知穆罕默德的漫画家，并参与了帮AQAP把藏在打印机墨盒里的炸弹用货运飞机送到美国的计划；沙特阿拉伯的提醒挫败了这个计划。不过，奥拉基的追随者们一再被捕，其中包括罗莎娜拉·乔杜里(Roshonara Choudhry)。此人交代，在听了奥拉基100多个小时的演讲后，她刺伤了一名投票赞成伊拉克战争的英国下议院议员。
The drone strike that killed Mr. Awlaki also killed Samir Khan and two other Qaeda operatives, and two weeks later, another American strike killed Mr. Awlaki’s 16-year-old son, infuriating many Yemenis. Obama administration officials have said the son, Abdulrahman al-Awlaki, also an American citizen, was not the intended target of the strike.
让奥拉基毙命的那次无人机袭击也杀死了萨米尔·汗(Samir Khan)和另外两名基地组织行动人员。两周后，美国在另一次空袭中让奥拉基16岁的儿子丧命，惹恼了许多也门人。奥巴马政府的多名官员表示，同为美国公民的奥拉基的儿子阿卜杜勒拉赫曼·奥拉基(Abdulrahman al-Awlaki)并非此次袭击的目标。
By then, in the fall of 2011, chaos in the wake of the ouster of Yemen’s longtime ruler, Ali Abdullah Saleh, had allowed Al Qaeda to seize large swaths of territory in the country’s south. In 2012, Yemeni forces, and American drones strikes, drove A.Q.A.P. out of the towns it had captured.
那是2011年的秋天。彼时，由于也门的长期统治者阿里·阿卜杜拉·萨利赫(Ali Abdullah Saleh)被推翻，局势混乱，基地组织趁机占领了该国南部的大片土地。不过，2012年，也门政府军和美国的无人机袭击把AQAP赶出了它所占领的多座城镇。
But in recent months, as a Shiite militia known as the Houthis seized power in Sana and elsewhere across Yemen, A.Q.A.P. has gained strength by rallying Sunni tribesmen against the Houthis. The growing violence, including numerous A.Q.A.P. bombings, underscores the failure of Yemeni and American efforts, including the drone campaign, to dismantle the group.
然而最近几个月，随着一个名为“胡塞”(Houthi)的什叶派民兵组织在首都萨那和也门其他多个地区掌权，AQAP通过集结逊尼派部落对抗胡塞而积蓄了力量。愈加严重的暴力事件——其中包括多次AQAP炸弹袭击——突显了也门和美国政府为摧毁该组织而采取的种种行动的失败，无人机空袭策略也不例外。
Dashed Hopes
希望破灭
American officials had hoped that the deaths of Mr. Awlaki and Mr. Khan, who were viewed as part of an A.Q.A.P. cell focused on attacking the United States and Europe, would curb the group’s ambitions. But A.Q.A.P. attempted a second underwear bombing of an airliner in 2012; it was foiled because the would-be bomber was an infiltrator sent by Saudi and Western intelligence agencies.
美国官员曾指望奥拉基和萨米尔·汗的死将遏制该组织的野心。这两人均被认为是专门攻击美国和欧洲的一个AQAP部门的成员。但是，2012年，AQAP再次试图用内衣炸弹袭击一架客机。此次行动最终失败，因为被选中的轰炸者是沙特阿拉伯和西方情报机构派遣的一名卧底。
In April 2013, investigators found that the two Tsarnaev brothers, the Chechens accused in the Boston Marathon bombing, had been deeply influenced by Mr. Awlaki and had gotten their bomb-making directions from Inspire magazine.
2013年4月，调查人员发现，移民自车臣的波士顿马拉松爆炸案的嫌疑人萨纳耶夫(Tsarnaev)两兄弟一直深受奥拉基的影响，而且从《激励》杂志上获知了制造炸弹的方法。
The killings of A.Q.A.P.’s main English-language propagandists did not slow down its robust media production. In fact, A.Q.A.P. put out English-language videos and audio messages at a far faster rate in 2013 and 2014 than in earlier years, according to IntelCenter, a company that tracks jihadist media. Inspire magazine has continued to appear, and a 2013 issue called for the killing of Charlie Hebdo’s editor, Stéphane Charbonnier, among others. The Kouachi brothers sought out Mr. Charbonnier by name when they invaded the newspaper, and he was among the first to be killed.
AQAP的英语宣传主力奥拉基丧命后，它强大的媒体产出能力并没有减弱。追踪研究圣战主义媒体的公司IntelCenter表示，实际上，在2013年和2014年，AQAP发布英语视频和音频信息的速度比以前更快。《激烈》杂志仍在继续更新，2013年的一期还呼吁杀死《查理周报》的主编斯特凡纳·沙博尼耶(Stéphane Charbonnier)等人。闯入报社时，库瓦奇兄弟直接点名寻找沙博尼耶，并让他成为了第一批遇害者之一。