A flaw has been discovered in one of the Internet’s key security methods, potentially forcing a wide swath of websites to make changes to protect the security of consumers.
人们在互联网的一个关键安全路径上发现了一个漏洞，该漏洞可能会迫使大量网站为保护用户安全而做出改变。
The problem was first discovered by a team of Finnish security experts and researchers at Google last week and disclosed on Monday. By Tuesday afternoon, a number of large websites, including Yahoo, Facebook, Google, and Amazon Web Services, said they were fixing the problem or had already fixed it.
上周，由芬兰安全专家和谷歌(Google)研究人员组成的一个团队首先发现了这个问题，并于周一公布了这个问题。截至周二下午，雅虎(Yahoo)、Facebook、谷歌(Google)和亚马逊网络服务(Amazon Web Services)等一系列大型网站都已表示自己正在处理这个问题，或称漏洞已经得到修复。
Researchers were still looking at the impact on consumers but warned it could be significant. Users’ most sensitive information — like passwords, stored files, bank details, even Social Security numbers — could be vulnerable because of the flaw.
研究人员仍在分析这个漏洞对用户的影响，但已警告称，影响可能会很大。用户最敏感的信息——比如密码、储存的文档、银行资料乃至社会安全号码——都可能会因这个漏洞而遭到泄露。
The most immediate advice from security experts to consumers was to wait or at least be cautious before changing passwords. Change a password on a site that hasn’t been fixed, and you could be handing the new password over to hackers. So before you do anything, they recommended, research a site to see if it has dealt with the issue. If it has, make the change.
安全专家给用户的最直接建议就是等待，至少要保持警惕，不要轻易修改密码。如果在尚未修复的网站上修改密码，就有可能把新密码泄露给黑客。所以他们建议用户先看看网站是否已经修复这个问题，然后再采取行动。如果问题已经修复，就可以修改密码。
The exact extent of the vulnerability was unclear. Up to two-thirds of websites rely on the affected technology, called OpenSSL. But some organizations appeared to have had advance notice of the issue and had already fixed the problem by Tuesday afternoon. Many others were still working on the problem.
泄露风险的确切大小目前尚不明确。有多达三分之二的网站都依赖这种名为OpenSSL的有缺陷技术。但有些组织似乎提前得到了通知，并已于周二下午修复了这个问题。其他许多网站仍在处理这个问题。
There is no indication that hackers have used the flaw to steal information, although it has existed for about two years. On Github, a website where developers gather to share code, some were posting ways to exploit the bug. The Finnish security researchers, working for Codenomicon, a security company headquartered in Saratoga, Calif., and security researchers at Google found the bug in a portion of the OpenSSL protocol — the basic security that encrypts sessions between consumer devices and websites — called the “heartbeat” because it pings messages back and forth. The researchers called the bug “Heartbleed.”
这个漏洞已存在了大约两年，但尚无迹象表明黑客曾利用它来窃取信息。在开发者聚集起来分享编码的Github网站上，有人发布了一些利用这个漏洞的方法。一些芬兰安全研究人员和谷歌的安全研究人员在OpenSSL安全协议里发现了这个漏洞。OpenSSL的安全协议是为用户设备和网站之间的通讯加密的基本安全设置，被人称为“心跳”，因为它负责来回发送信息。研究人员把这个漏洞称为“心脏出血”。前述芬兰研究人员是为总部位于加州萨拉托加的安全公司Codenomicon工作的。
“It’s a serious bug in that it doesn’t leave any trace,” said David Chartier, chief executive at Codenomicon. “Bad guys can access the memory on a machine and take encryption keys, usernames, passwords, valuable intellectual property, and there’s no trace they’ve been there.”
“这是一个严重的漏洞，因为它可能不会留下任何痕迹，”Codenomicon的首席执行官戴维·沙尔捷(David Chartier)说。“不怀好意的人可以进入机器内存，窃取密钥、用户名、密码和有价值的知识产权，而且不会留下任何痕迹。”
Organizations were advised to immediately download the newest version of the OpenSSL protocol, which included a fix, and quickly swap out their encryption keys. It also meant organizations needed to change their corporate passwords, log out users and advise them to change their own passwords.
有关方面建议各机构立即下载最新版OpenSSL安全协议，该安全协议将包含一个补丁，而且能够快速置换它们的密钥。这还意味着各组织需要改变他们的企业密码，登出用户，并建议用户修改自己的密码。
Then companies began taking inventory of what they may have lost. But because the flaw would allow attackers to surreptitiously steal the keys that protect communication, user passwords and anything stored in the memory of a vulnerable web server, it was virtually impossible to assess whether damage had been done.
接下来，公司应该开始盘点可能丢失了什么数据。然而，这个漏洞可以让袭击者偷偷窃取保护通讯的秘钥、用户密码以及易受攻击的网络服务器存储的任何东西，这样一来，几乎无法评定是否已经造成了损害。
Security researchers say they found evidence that suggests attackers were aware of the bug. Researchers monitoring various “honey pots” — stashes of fake data on the web aimed at luring hackers so researchers can learn more about their tools and techniques — found evidence that attackers had used the Heartbleed bug to access the fake data.
安全研究人员称，他们发现了一些证据，表明袭击者知道这个漏洞。监控各种“蜜罐”——网上隐藏的假数据，意在引诱黑客，让研究人员更多地了解他们的工具和手法——的研究人员发现的证据表明，袭击者曾利用“心脏出血”漏洞接触那些假数据。
If there were actual victims, they would be out of luck. “Unless an attacker blackmails you, or publishes your information online, or steals a trade secret and uses it, you won’t know if you’ve been compromised,” Mr. Chartier said. “That’s what makes it so vicious.”
如果确实有人受害，这些人可谓厄运临头。“除非袭击者跑来敲诈你，或是将你的信息公布在网上，或是窃取并利用某项商业机密，不然的话，你都不会知道自己受了损害，”沙尔捷说，“这个漏洞最恶劣的地方就在这里。”
Mr. Chartier advised users to consider their passwords gone and said companies should deal with the issue right away if they had not already. “Companies need to get new encryption keys and users need to get new passwords,” he said, adding: “And do it quickly.”
沙尔捷建议用户就当自己的密码丢了，并且表示，各公司如果还没开始处理这个问题，那就应该立即着手解决。“公司必须有新密钥，用户也必须用新密码，”他补充说：“而且动作要快。”
Security researchers are also warning people to start changing their passwords, particularly for sensitive accounts like their online banking, email, file storage and e-commerce accounts.
安全研究人员还提醒人们着手修改各种密码，尤其是敏感账户的密码，比如网银、电子邮件、文件存储器和电子商务账户。
By Tuesday afternoon, many organizations were heeding the warning. Companies across the web, including Yahoo, OKCupid, Amazon and PayPal began notifying users of the bug and what was being done to mitigate it. Tumblr, the social network owned by Yahoo, said they had issued fixes and warned users to immediately swap out their passwords.
截至周二下午，许多组织都注意到了这一警告。包括雅虎、OKCupid、亚马逊、贝宝(PayPal)在内的网络公司都已开始向用户通报这个漏洞，通报他们正在为修复漏洞而采取的措施。雅虎旗下的社交网络Tumblr称他们已经发布了修复补丁，并提醒用户立即修改密码。
“This still means that the little lock icon (HTTPS) we all trusted to keep our passwords, personal emails and credit cards safe was actually making all that private information accessible to anyone who knew about the exploit,” the security team at Tumblr, which is part of Yahoo, wrote on their site. “This might be a good day to call in sick and take some time to change your passwords everywhere — especially your high-security services like email, file storage and banking, which may have been compromised by this bug.”
“这依然意味着，我们都相信能保护我们的密码、私人邮件和信用卡安全的那个小锁图标(HTTPS)，实际上会让任何知道如何利用漏洞的人接触所有这些个人信息，”雅虎旗下Tumblr公司的安全团队在他们的网站上写道。“这可能是一个打电话请病假，用点时间修改各种密码的好机会——尤其是像电子邮件、文件存储器和银行这样的高安全性服务，它们可能已经受到了这个漏洞的损害。”