When Eric Nelson’s 6-year-old daughter, Charlotte, and 10-year-old son, Asa, discover that they cannot rewind or fast-forward a TV show, they are perplexed — and their father is, too. It is hard to explain the limitations of live television to children who have grown up in an on-demand world.
当埃里克·纳尔逊(Eric Nelson)6岁的女儿夏洛特(Charlotte)和10岁的儿子阿萨(Asa)发现无法倒回或快进一个电视节目时，他们一头雾水，纳尔逊也一样。对于在一个按需点播的世界里长大的孩子，向他们解释电视直播的局限性很困难。
“They say ‘live TV’ the way I say ‘doing my taxes’ — with resignation,” said Mr. Nelson, a literary agent in Manhattan.
“他们说‘电视直播’时，就像我说‘报税’一样无可奈何，”曼哈顿的文学作品经纪人纳尔逊说。
Charlotte and Asa, like many children, perceive all of television to be more Netflix than Nickelodeon: on demand and on their schedule, not the networks’. Their expectations — that every episode of every show is available anytime — give a glimpse into the future of entertainment, and are already shaping the decisions of media executives who are their grandparents’ ages.
和很多孩子一样，夏洛特和阿萨认为所有的电视都更像是Netflix，而不是尼克儿童频道(Nickelodeon)：他们可以按照自己的需要和时间安排来点播，而不是根据电视台的节目单收看。他们期望在任何时候选择观看任何节目的任何一集，这让人得以窥视娱乐业的未来，并且已经开始影响那些同他们祖父母差不多年纪的媒体高管的决定。
Netflix, Amazon and other streaming video services are competing ferociously for children’s programming. And networks that cater to children are starting to show programs online before they appear on old-fashioned television.
Netflix、亚马逊(Amazon)以及其他在线视频服务提供商正在儿童节目领域展开激烈竞争。专门针对儿童的广播电视网也开始在一些节目出现在老式电视机上之前，进行在线播放。
“Kids today don’t know a world where they had to wait for a program,” said Tara Sorensen, the head of original programming at Amazon Studios.
“现在的孩子不知道还有需要等着看节目这回事，”亚马逊工作室(Amazon Studios)负责原创节目的塔拉·索伦森(Tara Sorensen)说。
As Ms. Sorensen’s title indicates, Amazon and its rivals are commissioning new shows, including, they hope, the next big hits for children while bidding handsomely for the rights to repeats of shows like “SpongeBob SquarePants.”
正如索伦森的职位表明的那样，亚马逊和它的竞争对手正在委托制作新的电视节目，他们希望能够制作出新的热门儿童节目，同时，也在不惜重金竞标《海绵宝宝》(SpongeBob SquarePants)等节目的重复播放权。
But stalwarts like Nickelodeon and the Disney Channel are not yielding ground. They are promoting new phone and tablet apps that give cable and satellite subscribers streamlined access to programs. Disney, for example, is planning on showing the first nine episodes of “Sheriff Callie’s Wild West” online this month, several months before showing the program on the Disney Channel. New business models are being tried all the time: “Sesame Street,” while still available free over the public airwaves, can now also be seen for $4 a month on YouTube.
但是尼克儿童频道和迪士尼频道(Disney Channel)等实力雄厚的电视频道也不准备退让。他们正在推广新的手机和平板电脑应用，有了这些应用，有线电视和卫星电视的付费用户就可以在线观看节目。比如，迪士尼正计划本月在网上播出《卡利警长的狂野西部》(Sheriff Callie’s Wild West)的前九集，几个月后，该节目才会在迪士尼频道播出。许多公司都一直在尝试新的商业模式：《芝麻街》(Sesame Street)仍能在公共频道上免费观看，但现在同时也可以每月支付4美元（约合24元人民币）在YouTube上观看这个节目。
Children like Charlotte Nelson — who likes to turn on the Nintendo Wii U and watch movies on Netflix when she wakes up — are hot commodities, they just are not old enough to know it.
像夏洛特·纳尔逊这样的孩子，他们喜欢一醒来就打开任天堂Wii U(Nintendo Wii U)，在Netflix上看电影。他们现在是十分抢手的群体，他们只是年龄太小，还不明白而已。
Disney, Netflix and other companies are being driven in part by studies that show children are gravitating toward tablets and phones, and away from the big-screen television. A study by Common Sense Media, released in October, found that “the average amount of time children spend using mobile devices has tripled” since 2011, from five minutes a day to 15. The average amount of time in front of the TV set is still much greater — about 75 minutes a day — but the group said it was “down substantially” from 2011. Children are increasingly choosing a personal (and malleable) touch screen over a television screen.
迪士尼、Netflix等一些公司这么做的部分原因是看到了一些研究。这些研究的结果显示，儿童正在被平板设备和手机吸引，逐渐远离大屏幕的电视。“常识媒体”(Common Sense Media)10月份发布的一项研究显示，自2011年以来，“儿童使用移动设备的平均时间已经增加了两倍”，从每天5分钟增加到了15分钟。在电视机前的平均时间仍然要比这多得多，大约每天75分钟，但是该组织说，与2011年相比已经“大大减少”。越来越多的儿童更喜欢个人化的（而且是更听话的）触屏设备，而不是电视机。
Disney and others also are influenced by the fact that children are natural binge viewers, but with a twist. When children are enamored of a show (or, more specifically, a character) they want to watch the same episode over and over again and learn every detail of it. Instead of binge viewing as their parents do, they déjà view.
对迪士尼等公司产生影响的还有一个事实，那就是儿童是天生的无节制观众，但有其独特之处。当儿童喜欢一个节目（或者更具体的说，喜欢一个角色时），他们会一遍又一遍地重复看同一集，了解每一个细节。与他们父母那种无节制地看电视不同，他们是反复看。
According to Amazon, 65 percent of the most-replayed programs on its streaming service, Prime Instant Video, are shows for children. Within the Amazon Kindle’s subscription service for children ages 3 to 8, called FreeTime Unlimited, nearly half of all video views are second-, third- or fourth-time views.
亚马逊说，在它的流媒体服务Prime Instant Video上重播最多的节目中，65%是儿童节目。在亚马逊Kindle针对3到8岁儿童的订阅服务FreeTime Unlimited中，将近一半的视频播放是第二次、三次或四次收看。
For younger children, re-watching involves learning — shows for preschoolers are the ones re-watched most by families that subscribe to Netflix. For older children, it involves enjoying the humor in specific episodes.
对于更小的孩子来说，重复观看意味着学习。针对学龄前儿童的节目是订阅Netflix的家庭观看次数最多的节目。对于再大一点的孩子们来说，重复观看是因为他们喜欢某几集中的幽默。 
Netflix enters programming negotiations armed with these observations. Its executives assert that it does not need to license every episode of a hit children’s show, as long as it has enough episodes to satisfy its youngest viewers. Netflix’s latest deal with PBS, for example, includes 30 episodes of “Arthur” produced from 2009 through 2011, out of a total of 195 episodes. “We understand how kids watch, and we use that information in how we license,” a spokeswoman said.
带着这些观察，Netflix开始了有关节目制作的谈判。Netflix的高管认为，不需要为一个热门儿童电视节目的每一集都申请授权上线，只要提供的那些集足够满足那些最小的观众就行。例如，Netflix最近与PBS的合同就包括从2009年到2011年的30集Arthur，而该剧共有195集。一名发言人说，“我们了解儿童看电视的方式，我们在申请节目授权时就运用了这方面的信息”。
Netflix and other streaming services put a premium on being the only destination for must-see programs. But so do cable channels like the Viacom-owned Nickelodeon — so the competition can be fierce. A licensing deal between Netflix and Viacom ended in May. A few days later, Amazon Prime started carrying Nickelodeon’s “Bubble Guppies,” “The Backyardigans” and other series. (Those shows also are available through Nickelodeon’s apps and websites. The channel said its app had been downloaded five million times.)
Netflix和其他流媒体服务都希望成为人们观看不容错过节目时的唯一选择。但是，Viacom旗下的尼克儿童频道等有线电视频道也是这么想的，因此竞争可能会非常激烈。Netflix和Viacom之间的授权协议已于5月份终止。几天之后，亚马逊Prime开始提供尼克儿童频道 《泡泡孔雀鱼》(Bubble Guppies)、《花园小子》(The Backyardigans)和其他系列剧。（这些节目也可以通过尼克儿童频道的应用和网站观看。该频道说，其应用程序已经被下载了500万次。）
Netflix tried to one-up Amazon by announcing deals with Disney, PBS and Scholastic. But both services will soon compete in another category, original programming for children. Netflix will start DreamWorks’ “Turbo: F.A.S.T,” an animated spinoff of the film flop “Turbo,” in December, and will have 300 hours of original programming from DreamWorks later. Amazon is set to start offering three of its own children’s series next year.
Netflix宣布与迪士尼、PBS和Scholastic的交易是为了对抗亚马逊。但是这两家公司很快就会开始在另一个类别的竞争，那就是儿童原创节目。Netflix将会在12月开始梦工厂(DreamWorks)的《极速蜗牛：FAST》(Turbo: F.A.S.T)，这是电影《极速蜗牛》(Turbo)派生出的一部电视剧，未来将有来自梦工厂300小时的原创节目。亚马逊明年将开始提供三部自己原创的儿童电视剧。
On the plus side for some parents, Netflix and Amazon’s streaming services have no advertising, unlike traditional television. Mr. Nelson has noticed that while Asa is annoyed when he cannot fast-forward through boring ads, Charlotte is not. Why? He chalks it up to the fact that she has seen so few commercials in her life, because she is accustomed to streaming. “Instead of being annoyed” by the ads, he said, “she’s intrigued.”
对于一些父母来说，Netflix和亚马逊的流媒体服务的一个优势是，与传统的电视不同，它们没有广告。纳尔逊已经注意到，尽管在播放无聊的广告时不能快进让阿萨很不快，夏洛特却毫不在意。为什么？他认为原因是她一直使用流媒体，所以长这么大根本没怎么看过广告。他说，“她不仅没有被广告困扰，反而被其吸引。”
This year, both children took a liking to the Nickelodeon series “Peter Rabbit.” But only 18 episodes have been broadcast, and they had to wait a week for new ones. Try explaining network scheduling logic to a 6-year-old.
今年，两个孩子都喜欢上了尼克儿童频道的电视剧“彼得兔”(Peter Rabbit)。但是只播了18集，他们必须再等一周才能有新的剧集。向一个六岁的孩子解释电视台的播出安排吧。
“What about YouTube?,” Mr. Nelson said Charlotte asked him. He had to explain about the future episodes, “They literally haven’t made them yet, honey.”
纳尔逊说，夏洛特问他：“不能在YouTube上看吗？”他不得不解释说，后面的剧集“还没制作出来呢，亲爱的。”