WASHINGTON — President Trump and his top aides coordinated their response to North Korea’s missile test on Saturday night in full view of diners at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida — a remarkable, public display of presidential activity that is almost always conducted in highly secure settings.
华盛顿——周六晚上，在佛罗里达州的马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)里，特朗普和他的高级助手协调了对朝鲜导弹测试的反应——几乎总是在高度安全的环境下进行的总统活动，就这样引人瞩目地展示在了公众面前。
The scene — of aides huddled over their computers and the president on his cellphone at his club’s terrace — was captured by a club member dining not far away and published in pictures on his Facebook account. The images also show Mr. Trump conferring with his guest at the resort, Shinzo Abe, the Japanese prime minister.
助手们挤在电脑前，总统在俱乐部的露台上用手机的场景，都被不远处用餐的一名俱乐部会员拍下，并发布在自己的Facebook帐户上。照片还显示了特朗普与他的客人、日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在度假村交换意见的情景。
Shortly before Richard DeAgazio, a new member of Mr. Trump’s club, snapped the pictures, North Korea test-fired a ballistic missile into the sea off its eastern coast. Mr. DeAgazio posted his pictures to Facebook as the two leaders and their staff reviewed documents and worked on their laptops, using cellphones as flashlights.
就在特朗普俱乐部的新会员理查德·德阿加齐奥(Richard DeAgazio)拍下这些照片的不久之前，朝鲜向其东海岸外的海中试射了一枚弹道导弹。德阿加齐奥把这些照片贴到了Facebook上，照片中两位领导人及其幕僚查看文件、在笔记本电脑上工作，同时把手机当作手电筒使用。
““HOLY MOLY !!! It was fascinating to watch the flurry of activity at dinner when the news came that North Korea had launched a missile in the direction of Japan,” Mr. DeAgazio wrote later on Facebook, describing how the two leaders “conferred and then went into another room for hastily arranged press conference.”
“天啦！吃晚饭时朝鲜向日本方向发射导弹的消息传来，看到眼前忙乱的一幕真是有意思。”德阿加齐奥后来在Facebook上描述了两位领导人如何“交换意见，然后进入另一个房间，匆忙地安排新闻发布会”。
“Wow.....the center of the action!!!” Mr. DeAgazio wrote in the posting. The scene at Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, was first reported by CNN. Mr. DeAgazio did not respond to a call seeking comment.
“哇......这是行动的中心！！！”德阿加齐奥在帖子里写道。棕榈滩马阿拉歌庄园的这幅景象是由CNN率先报道的。德阿加齐奥没有回复请求置评的电话。
The fact that the national security incident was playing out in public view drew swift condemnation from some Democrats, who said it was irresponsible for Mr. Trump not to have moved his discussion to a more private location.
国家安全事件在众目睽睽之下发生，立即招致一些民主党人的谴责，他们认为特朗普没有在更私密的地方进行这种讨论是不负责任之举。
“There’s no excuse for letting an international crisis play out in front of a bunch of country club members like dinner theater,” Representative Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House, said in a Twitter message.
“没有理由让国际危机在一群乡村俱乐部会员面前发生，弄得跟餐馆剧院一样，”众议院(House of Representatives)民主党领袖南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)在Twitter上说。
Discussions about how to respond to international incidents involving adversaries like North Korea are almost always conducted in places that have high-tech protections against eavesdropping, like the White House Situation Room. When presidents are away from the White House, they often conduct important business in a “Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility,” or SCIF, a location that can be made temporarily impervious to eavesdropping.
当讨论如何应对涉及朝鲜等对手的国际事件时，地点几乎总是选在配备高科技防窃听措施的场所，比如白宫军情室(Situation Room)。如果总统不在白宫，他们经常会在“敏感区域信息设施”（Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility，简称SCIF）处理重要事情，那里可以暂时防止窃听。
Mr. Trump and his White House aides who joined him for dinner, including Steve Bannon, his chief strategist, did not relocate the discussion to such a facility.
特朗普和一起出席晚宴的白宫助理，包括他的首席战略师史蒂夫·班农(Steve Bannon)，并没有把讨论搬到这样的设施中。
The president’s dinner with Mr. Abe was also a departure.
特朗普与安倍晋三的晚宴也不合常规。
Mr. Trump’s predecessors have almost always held such working dinners in private facilities. In 2013, former President Barack Obama held a dinner with China’s President Xi Jinping at the Sunnylands resort in Palm Springs, Calif. But the dinner between the leaders was out of sight of members of the public.
特朗普之前的总统几乎总是在私下场所举行这种工作宴会。2013年，前总统奥巴马在加州棕榈泉的阳光之乡(Sunnylands)度假村为中国国家主席习近平举行晚宴，但那次晚宴并不在公众视线之内。
But Mr. Trump appears to enjoy presenting the spectacle of his presidency to those at his privately held club, where members pay $200,000 to join. While the club is not open to the public, Mr. Trump’s dinner with Mr. Abe was in the club’s dining room, where any member or their guests were likely to be.
但是，特朗普似乎喜欢向其俱乐部里的人公开展示自己担任总统的样子，该俱乐部的入会费是20万美元。虽然它不向公众开放，但特朗普与安倍晋三是在俱乐部的餐厅共进晚餐的，任何会员或客人都可能出现在那里。
Individual club members can invite guests, submitting a list of names of table guests for security clearance to officials ahead of time.
俱乐部的成员可以邀请客人进入，只需提前列出客人的名单，供官员进行安全调查。
In addition to the pictures of the North Korea conversation, Mr. DeAgazio also posted pictures of himself standing with a person he described as Mr. Trump’s military aide responsible for carrying the nuclear “football” — the briefcase with codes for launching nuclear weapons.
除了朝鲜谈话的照片之外，德阿加齐奥还张贴了一张自己与某人的合影，称此人是特朗普的军事助理，负责拿着核“橄榄球”——有核武器发射密码的公文包。
After news reports were published about Mr. DeAgazio’s Facebook account, the account was deleted, along with the photographs.
在新闻机构报道了德阿加齐奥的Facebook帐户之后，该帐户以及照片都已删除。