Maria Sharapova said Monday that she had been notified by the International Tennis Federation that she tested positive for a banned substance at the Australian Open in January.
玛丽亚·莎拉波娃(Maria Sharapova)本周一表示，国际网球联合会(International Tennis Federation)已经通知她，在1月澳大利亚网球公开赛上，她的违禁药物检测呈阳性。
A five-time Grand Slam champion, Sharapova, 28, is one of tennis’s biggest stars and has been the highest-paid female athlete for 11 straight years.
五度大满贯冠军莎拉波娃现年28岁，是网球界最耀眼的明星之一，曾连续11年成为收入最高的女运动员。
She said she had been taking mildronate since 2006 for health issues. Mildronate, a heart medication, is also known as meldonium, which was added to the prohibited list this year.
她说，自2006年以来，她一直出于医疗原因服用米曲肼(mildronate)。这种心脏药物也被称为meldonium，是在今年被添加到禁药列表中的。
Sharapova said she received an email from the World Anti-Doping Agency in December that noted changes to tennis’s program for 2016. She said that the email included a link to a list of banned substances, but that she did not look at it.
莎拉波娃说，她去年12月收到世界反兴奋剂机构(World Anti-Doping Agency)的一封电子邮件，告知2016年的网球活动安排，电邮中有一个禁用物质名单的链接，但她并没有去看它。
“I have to take full responsibility for it,” Sharapova said at a news conference in Los Angeles. “It’s my body, and I’m responsible for what I put into it.”
“我必须承担全部责任，”莎拉波娃在洛杉矶的新闻发布会上说。“这是我的身体，我得为摄入了什么东西负责。”
Last fall, WADA said meldonium was included on the prohibited list because of evidence of its use by athletes with the intention of enhancing performance. Sharapova is at least the seventh athlete to test positive for the drug this year.
去年秋天，世界反兴奋剂机构将米曲肼列入名单，因为有证据表明，一些希望提高成绩的运动员在服用它。莎拉波娃至少是第七个今年米曲肼测试呈阳性的运动员。
Earlier Monday, the Russian ice dancer Ekaterina Bobrova announced she had tested positive for meldonium, forcing her out of this month’s world championships.
周一早些时候，俄罗斯冰上舞蹈运动员叶卡捷琳娜·波洛娃(Ekaterina Bobrova)宣布自己米曲肼检测呈阳性，无法参加这个月的世锦赛。
Sharapova is, by far, the most high-profile tennis player to test positive for a performance-enhancing drug. Her sample was taken on Jan. 26, the day of her quarterfinal loss to Serena Williams at the Australian Open. Sharapova has not played since, citing a forearm injury.
在兴奋剂测试呈阳性的网球运动员中，莎拉波娃是迄今为止最备受瞩目的一位。1月26日取样送检的当天，她在澳大利亚网球公开赛的四分之一决赛中败给了塞雷娜·威廉姆斯(Serena Williams)。莎拉波娃后来一直没有出场，原因是前臂受伤。
John Haggerty, a lawyer representing Sharapova, said that she would be provisionally suspended on Saturday and that she had instructed him to waive testing of her B sample.
莎拉波娃的律师约翰·哈格蒂(John Haggerty)说，上周六她被暂时停赛，她已告知他要放弃B瓶检测。
“Because she wants to be very upfront and move this along, she has permitted me and instructed me to waive testing of the B sample,” Haggerty said. “She acknowledged she took the drug called mildronate and that under a different name, meldonium, it is on the banned list. And that is why she’s acknowledged that she’s failed the drug test, and now we are just going through the I.T.F. process to discuss with them why we believe that either no, or a very limited, sanction is required based upon all the facts surrounding why she was taking it, for how long she’s been taking it and the medical issues she was taking it for.”
“因为她想非常坦率地对待这件事，让事情过去，她允许并指示我放弃B瓶检测，”哈格蒂说。“她承认自己服用了禁药名单上的米曲肼。这就是为什么她承认未能通过药检的原因，现在我们要做的就是走国际网球联合会的程序，和他们讨论为什么我们觉得，根据她服用这种药物的前因后果，或者不对她进行处罚，或者应该是非常轻的处罚，因为她出于医疗原因，长期以来一直在服用这种药。”
Sharapova, a former No. 1 player, has battled injuries in recent years. She had right shoulder surgery to repair two rotator cuff tears in 2008 and had more shoulder problems in 2013 that she attributed to bursitis, tendinitis and a bone bruise. She has played only four events in the last eight months: three WTA tournaments and the 2015 Fed Cup final.
莎拉波娃曾经是头号网球选手，最近几年来一直在与伤病斗争。2008年她做了右肩手术，以修复两处肩袖撕裂，2013年她的肩部出现了更多问题，被她归结为滑囊炎、肌腱炎和一处骨挫伤。过去八个月，她只参加了四场比赛：女子职业网联(WTA)的三场锦标赛，以及2015年联合会杯(Fed Cup)的决赛。
“I know that with this I face consequences and I don’t want to end my career this way — and I really hope I will be given another chance to play this game,” said Sharapova, who is ranked seventh in the world.
“我知道自己要面对这件事的后果，我不想就这样结束我的职业生涯——我真的希望还有机会参赛，”莎拉波娃说。她目前排名世界第七。
Steve Simon, the chairman and chief executive of the WTA, said in a statement that he was “very saddened” by news of Sharapova’s failed test.
WTA主席兼首席执行官史蒂夫·西蒙(Steve Simon)在一份声明中说，他对莎拉波娃未通过测试的消息感到“非常难过”。
“Maria is a leader and I have always known her to be a woman of great integrity,” Simon said. “Nevertheless, as Maria acknowledged, it is every player’s responsibility to know what they put in their body and to know if it is permissible.”
“玛丽亚是顶尖球员，我一直都知道她是一位非常正直的女性，”西蒙说。“尽管如此，就像玛丽亚所说的那样，知道自己摄入什么东西，知道这些东西是否违禁，是每个球员的责任。”