When an Ohio teenager witnessed her 17-year-old friend being raped, according to officials, she not only failed to help the victim, she pointed her phone and streamed a live video of it on the Periscope app.
官员称，当俄亥俄州一位少女目睹17岁的朋友被强奸时，她不仅没去帮助受害人，还举起手机拍摄实况，并把视频上传到流媒体直播应用Periscope。
The teenager, Marina Lonina, 18, faces a spate of charges as severe as those facing the man accused of attacking her, Raymond Gates, 29. Both have been charged with kidnapping, rape, sexual battery and pandering sexual matter involving a minor.
这位名叫马里纳·洛尼纳(Marina Lonina)的18岁少女，与被指袭击她的男人——29岁的雷蒙德·盖茨(Raymond Gates)——面临着同样严重的指控。两人均被控犯下绑架、强奸、性暴力以及纵容涉及未成年人的性事等罪行。
“I have never seen a case such as this where you would actually live-stream a sexual assault,” Ron O’Brien, the Franklin County prosecutor, said in remarks to the local news media.
“我从未遇到过这样的案件，一个人竟然真的会对性侵进行现场直播，”富兰克林县的检察官罗恩·奥布莱恩(Ron O’Brien)接受当地媒体采访时评论道。
The prosecutor’s office said Ms. Lonina and the victim, friends from the same high school outside Columbus, met Mr. Gates for the first time while hanging out at a shopping mall in the city, the day before the alleged assault. He proposed meeting the next day.
这名检察官所在的办公室称，洛尼纳和受害人是来自哥伦布市郊区的同一所高中的朋友，在指控中的袭击事件发生的前一天，两人在市里的一家购物中心闲逛时，初次遇到盖茨。
On the evening of Feb. 27, all three were gathered at a residence in Columbus where Mr. Gates pinned the 17-year-old down and raped her as Ms. Lonina used Periscope, an app owned by Twitter, to live-stream the attack, the authorities said.
当局称，2月27日傍晚，三人齐聚哥伦布市的一处住宅，在那里，盖茨压住17岁的受害者，对其实施强奸，洛尼纳则利用Twitter旗下的一款应用程序，对袭击进行现场直播。
A friend of Ms. Lonina’s in another state saw the video and contacted the authorities.
洛尼纳在另外一个州的一位朋友看到视频后联系了当局。
Both defendants pleaded not guilty on Friday.
上周五，两名被告均否认控罪。
Mr. O’Brien, the prosecutor, said Ms. Lonina had apparently hoped that live-streaming the attack would help to stop it, but that she became enthralled by positive feedback online.
检察官奥布莱恩称，洛尼纳起初似乎希望通过现场直播来帮忙阻止这场袭击，但后来网上的正面反馈让她着了迷。
“She got caught up in the likes,” he said.
“她意外地发现有很多人点赞，”他说。
Ms. Lonina’s lawyer, Sam Shamansky, has portrayed his client as the victim of a much older man, who bought the teenagers a bottle of vodka.
在洛尼纳的律师山姆·沙马恩斯基(Sam Shamansky)看来，洛尼纳是一个比她年长许多的男子的受害人。该男子为两个少女买了一瓶伏特加。
“You don’t want to lose track of the fact that she’s a high school student and she and her friend were clearly taken advantage of,” he said.
“你一定不想忽略这样一个事实：她是一名高中生，她和她的朋友显然是被人利用了，”他说。
Ms. Lonina told the police that she filmed the encounter to gather evidence of a crime. Mr. Shamansky, who has viewed the Periscope video, said Ms. Lonina made “substantial” efforts to thwart the attack, though he declined to specify them.
洛尼纳告诉警方，她拍摄事件实况是为了搜集犯罪证据。沙马恩斯基已经看过Periscope上的视频，他说洛尼纳为阻止这场袭击做了“大量”努力，但他拒绝具体指出洛尼纳做了哪些努力。
“She was swept up by the gravity of the situation,” Mr. Shamansky said. “And as she immediately told the police, she was filming in order to preserve, not to embarrass or to shame or to titillate anybody.”
“她被情况的严重性震住了，”沙马恩斯基说。“她在立刻告知警方的同时进行录影，是为了保存犯罪证据，而非有意让任何人难堪、丢脸，或进行挑逗。”
In an interview on Monday, Mr. O’Brien acknowledged that for roughly 10 seconds during the 10-minute video Ms. Lonina pulled the leg of the victim, who he said cried out during the attack saying “no,” “stop” and “help me.” It was not clear though that she intended to help the victim, he said.
周一接受采访时，奥布莱恩承认，在这个时长10分钟的视频中，有大约10秒钟的画面显示洛尼纳在拉受害人的腿。他说在被袭过程中，受害人一直在大喊“不要”、“停下来”和“救命”。不过他也表示，从画面中并不能明显看出她有意帮助受害人。
“For the most part she is just streaming it on the Periscope app and giggling and laughing,” Mr. O’Brien said.
“她基本上只是在用Periscope做现场直播，还时不时地咯咯笑和大笑，”奥布莱恩说。
Ms. Lonina did not call 911, he added.
他还提到洛尼纳并没有拨打911。
Court records showed no attorney listed for Mr. Gates.
法庭文件显示，目前没人担任盖茨的代理律师。
The authorities also charged Ms. Lonina with an additional felony for photographing her friend in the nude on Feb. 26, the night before the assault, Mr. O’Brien said.
奥布莱恩表示，当局另外对洛尼纳提出了一项重罪指控，因为她在2月26日，也就是袭击事件发生前一晚，拍摄了她朋友的裸体。
The defendants each face more than 40 years in prison if convicted, Mr. O’Brien said. Court records show Ms. Lonina was released Friday on a bond of $125,000, while Mr. Gates remained incarcerated after his bond was set at $300,000.
奥布莱恩称，如果被定罪，两名被告都将面临超过40年的监禁。法庭文件显示，在缴纳12.5万美元保释金之后，洛尼纳已于周五被释放。盖茨依然被关押，他的保释金额为30万美元。