The most important book I read in 2013 was Jaron Lanier’s “Who Owns the Future?” Though it was published in May, I came to it late in the year. But this turned out to be fortuitous timing. With unemployment seemingly stalled out at around 7 percent in the aftermath of the Great Recession, with the leak of thousands of National Security Agency documents making news almost daily, with the continuing stories about the erosion of privacy in the digital economy, “Who Owns the Future?” puts forth a kind of universal theory that ties all these things together. It also puts forth some provocative, unconventional ideas for ensuring that the inevitable dominance of software in every corner of society will be healthy instead of harmful.
我2013年读过的最重要的一本书是杰伦·拉尼尔(Jaron Lanier)的《谁拥有未来？》(Who Owns the Future?)。虽然书是在5月出版的，但是我接近年末才开始读，不过事实证明我阅读的时间点很巧。在大衰退(Great Recession)之后，失业率似乎卡在了7%左右；成千上万份国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的文件外泄后，媒体几乎每天都在报道数字经济中，个人隐私受到侵犯的故事，而《谁拥有未来？》一书却提出了一种普遍适用的理论，将所有这些事件联系在了一起。书中还提出了一些跳脱常规、争议巨大的观点，讨论该如何确保软件不可避免地主导社会的方方面面时，对我们有益而非有害。
Lanier has an unusual authority to criticize the digital economy: He was there, more or less, at the creation. Among (many) other things, he founded the first company to sell virtual reality products. Another of his start-ups was sold to Google. As a consultant, he has had assignments with “Wal-Mart, Fannie Mae, major banks and hedge funds,” as he notes in “Who Owns the Future?” But unlike most of his fellow technologists, he eventually came to feel that the rise of digital networks was no panacea.
在批评数字经济这方面，拉尼尔是一个不可多得的权威，因为在数字经济的开端，他多多少少有过亲身参与。他参与过许多项目，包括建立了第一家销售虚拟现实产品的公司。他的另一家创业企业卖给了谷歌(Google)。他在《谁拥有未来？》一书中写道，自己作为咨询师还与“沃尔玛(Wal-Mart)、房利美(Fannie Mae)、大型银行和对冲基金”做过项目。然而与多数技术专家不同的是，他最终渐渐地感觉到，数字网络并不是万灵药。
On the contrary: “What I came away with from having access to these varied worlds was a realization that they were all remarkably similar,” he writes. “The big players often gained benefits from digital networks to an amazing degree, but they were also constrained, even imprisoned, by the same dynamics.”
恰恰相反，他写道，“能够接触这些不同的世界，我的感触是意识到了它们都十分相似。大企业常常能从数字网络中获益，而且获益的程度十分惊人，但同样的动态也束缚着它们，甚至可以说囚禁着它们。”
Over time, the same network efficiencies that had given them their great advantages would become the instrument of their failures. In the financial services industry, it led to the financial crisis. In the case of Wal-Mart, its adoption of technology to manage its supply chain at first reaped great benefits, but over time it cost competitors and suppliers hundreds of thousands of jobs, thus “gradually impoverishing its own customer base,” as Lanier put it to me.
这些网络带来的效率提升会为它们提供巨大的优势，但长期来看，这也会促成它们的失败。在金融服务业，这造成了金融危机。就沃尔玛来说，它所采用的管理供应链的技术，最初取得了巨大的效益，但从长期来看，这让竞争对手和供应商损失了数以千计的就业岗位。拉尼尔对我说，这样一来，“也就逐步加重了其客户群的贫困程度”。
The N.S.A.? It developed computer technology that could monitor the entire world — and, in the process, lost control of the contractors it employed. As for Facebook, Google, Twitter, Amazon et al., well, in Lanier’s view, it’s only a matter of time before their advantages, too, disintegrate.
那NSA呢？它研发出了可以监控整个世界的电脑技术，而在这个过程中失去了对受雇的承包商的控制。对于Facebook、谷歌、Twitter、亚马逊(Amazon)等企业，在拉尼尔看来，它们的优势迟早也会消失。
There are two additional components to Lanier’s thesis. The first is that the digital economy has done as much as any single thing to hollow out the middle class. (When I asked him about the effect of globalization, he said that globalization was “just one form of network efficiency.” See what I mean about a universal theory?) His great example here is Kodak and Instagram. At its height, writes Lanier “Kodak employed more than 140,000 people.” Yes, Kodak made plenty of mistakes, but look at what is replacing it: “When Instagram was sold to Facebook for a billion dollars in 2012, it employed only 13 people.”
拉尼尔的理论中还有其他两项成分。第一项是数字经济在掏空中产阶级这个方面，发生了无与伦比的效果。（我向他问及关于全球化效应的问题时，他说全球化“只是网络带来效率提升”的一种形式。这下明白我说“普遍适用”是什么意思了吧？）他在这个方面举出的绝好例子是柯达(Kodak)和Instagram。拉尼尔写道，柯达在鼎盛时“有超过14万名员工”。柯达的确犯过很多错误，但是我们要明白替代它的是什么：“Instagram在2012年以10亿美元的价格出售给Facebook时，员工只有13人。”
Which leads nicely to Lanier’s final big point: that the value of these new companies comes from us. “Instagram isn’t worth a billion dollars just because those 13 employees are extraordinary,” he writes. “Instead, its value comes from the millions of users who contribute to the network without being paid for it.” He adds, “Networks need a great number of people to participate in them to generate significant value. But when they have them, only a small number of people get paid. This has the net effect of centralizing wealth and limiting overall economic growth.” Thus, in Lanier’s view, is income inequality also partly a consequence of the digital economy.
这也就自然地引出了拉尼尔最后的宏大论点，即这些公司的价值来自我们。“Instagram值10亿美元不仅仅是因为那13名员工超乎寻常，”他写道，“相反，其价值来自于数百万用户向网络贡献内容却不领取报酬。”他还说，“网络需要人数众多的成员参与其中，才能创造显著的价值。但一旦网络拥有了价值，只有少数人能从中获利。这产生了集中财富，制约总体经济增长的净效果。”因此，按照拉尼尔的观点，收入不平等部分上也是数字经济的后果。
It is Lanier’s radical idea that people should get paid whenever their information is used. He envisions a different kind of digital economy, in which creators of content — whether a blog post or a Facebook photograph — would receive micropayments whenever that content was used. A digital economy that appears to give things away for free — in return for being able to invade the privacy of its customers for commercial gain — isn’t free at all, he argues.
拉尼尔的激进观点是，只要人们创造的信息被使用了，就应该向他们付费。他构想了一种不同的数字经济：只要内容被使用了，无论它是博客上发表的文章还是Facebook上发布的照片，都要向内容的创造者支付小额的费用。数字经济仿佛是在免费提供服务，而代价就是让它通过侵犯用户的隐私来获取商业利益，所以实际上完全不是免费的，
Lanier’s ideas raise as many questions as they answer, and he makes no pretense to having it all figured out. “I know some of this will turn out to be wrong,” he told me. “But I just don’t know which part.”
拉尼尔的观点提出的问题和它回答的问题一样多，不过他也没有假装自己拥有所有的答案。“我知道其中的一些论断最终可能是错的，”他对我说，“我只是不知道哪部分会犯错。”
Still his ideas about reformulating the economy — creating what he calls a “humanistic economy” — offer much food for thought. Lanier wants to create a dynamic where digital networks expand the pie rather than shrink it, and rebuild the middle class instead of destroying it.
不过，他重塑经济，创造出他所说的“人本主义经济”的设想，为读者的思考提供了很多养料。拉尼尔希望建立一个这样的动态关系，让数字网络做大“馅饼”，而不是缩小，并且重建中产阶级，而不是摧毁它。
“If Google and Facebook were smart,” he said, “they would want to enrich their own customers.” So far, he adds, Silicon Valley has made “the stupid choice” — to grow their businesses at the expense of their own customers.
“如果谷歌和Facebook聪明的话，”他说。“它们就会愿意让自己的用户获利。”他还说，目前来看，硅谷做了“愚蠢的选择”——做大自己的生意，却损害用户的利益。
Lanier’s message is that it can’t last. And it won’t.
拉尼尔的中心观点是，这样做不能长久，也不会长久。