Every writer fears the blank page. Every comedian dreads silence at the end of a punch line. Every creative soul quivers at the prospect of brush touching canvas or fingers reaching for keyboards and finding — nothing.
每个作者都害怕空白的纸页。每个笑星都担心抖出包袱后出现沉默。每一个从事创作的人，想到画笔碰到画布，手指触到键盘，却无从下手的时候都会颤抖。
In all the tributes to the propulsive force of genius that was Robin Williams, in all the helpful pivots from a celebrity’s suicide to the larger issue of depression that cripples millions, we may have forgotten one obvious thing about him. Williams was a showman — perhaps the most vulnerable of public persons. And in the digital age, when trolls can make a piñata of even the most gifted performers, the pressure on those on stage or in the arena has never been greater. Nor has the arc from triumph to tragedy been shorter.
人们纷纷称赞罗宾·威廉姆斯(Robin Williams)这位天才的推动力，话题也从一位名人的自杀，转向了困扰数百万人的更大问题——抑郁症。尽管讨论的延伸大有裨益，但是我们或许忘记了他的一个明显特质。威廉姆斯是一名表演者，这群人或许是公众人物中，最容易受伤害的一类人。在数字化时代，恶意的帖子甚至能让最有天赋的表演者，成为人人击打的玩偶，那些在舞台上的表演者，面临着前所未有的巨大压力。从意气风发到沦为悲剧的跌落，也从未如此迅速。
In 2008, Williams was trying out new material at the Showbox in Seattle, a small venue. He was coming off a string of mediocre movies and unkind reviews, and was trying to dig his way out of a career hole. That night he did the work of 12 comedians, all the manic flights, the voices, the riffs, sweating through his shirt and gulping bottled water like a marathon runner. He was Springsteen in encore, Michael Jordan in double overtime.
2008年，威廉姆斯在西雅图的小剧场Showbox，尝试一些新东西。他摆脱了一系列平庸电影和刻薄评论的影响，正在努力寻找一条走出职业困境的道路。那一晚，他完成了12名笑星的工作——癫狂的笑话、模仿的声音、高潮迭起的讲述。汗水浸透了他的衬衫，他像马拉松运动员一样大口喝水。他仿佛是安可表演时的斯普林斯汀(Springsteen)，又仿佛正在打第二次加时的迈克尔·乔丹(Michael Jordan)。
Afterward, in his cramped dressing room, he appeared deflated, exhausted, spent and, as is often said of famous people when you meet them in real life, smaller than his screen self. We complimented him on the new stuff — he had killed, leaving the room in tears of laughter. “Really?” he asked in schoolboy hunger for a pat on the head. “Did you really like it?”
散场后，他回到狭窄的化妆室里，看上去有些沮丧、精疲力竭。就像人们在现实生活中遇到名人后经常形容的那样，他比屏幕上的自己更渺小。我们称赞了他的新尝试，他的表演征服了观众，让他们都笑出了泪。“真的吗？”他问道，仿佛像一个小学生一样，渴望着别人摸摸头。“你们真的喜欢吗？”
On stage, he owned the room. Backstage, he was lonely and needy and a little out of breath; laughter was his oxygen. Two years later, in a podcast interview with the comedian Marc Maron, he offered another glimpse of the pressure to create and remain fresh. “You bottom out,” he said. “People say, ‘You have an Academy Award.’ The Academy Award lasted about a week, then one week later people are going, ‘Hey, Mork.’ ”
在舞台上，他能掌控全场。在后台，他孤独、需要支撑，还有点喘不过气；笑声就是他的氧气。两年之后，他在笑星马克·马龙(Marc Maron)的播客上接受采访时，再一次透露出要进行创作又要保持新鲜时，所面临的压力。他说，“跌入谷底时，人们会说，‘你得过奥斯卡奖。’可是奥斯卡奖的光环只能维持一周。一周之后，人们就会说，‘嗨！默克(Mork)。’ ”
Williams needed those nights in Seattle (he donated all the proceeds to a food bank, without making a fuss of it), because artists need room to fail. But I’m not sure that our era, in which everything is exposed, shared and composted in less time than it takes a cup of coffee to go cold, allows for these creative resuscitations anymore.
威廉姆斯需要西雅图的这些夜晚（他将所有收入都捐赠给了一家食品银行，但却没有张扬），因为艺术家需要失败的空间。但在这个时代，所有事件受到曝光、被人分享，再发酵变质的周期，比咖啡放凉的时间还短。我不敢确定，这个时代是否还允许创造力的复苏。
Look at the most savage reaction to Williams’s death. Rush Limbaugh said the suicide “fits a certain picture, or a certain image that the left has.” He said later he was talking about the “liberal media,” but he was doing what he always does: Finding the most heartless thing to say about a situation that requires a teaspoon of genuine empathy. On the Glenn Beck website for “The Blaze,” the hate flowed. “The way I look at it, that’s one less Hollywood lib-prog donor and voter,” one reader wrote in the comments. There were many others in the same vein. Harassment from Internet trolls forced the comedian’s daughter, Zelda Williams, to shut down her social media sites “maybe forever.”
看看对威廉姆斯的去世最残忍的反应吧。拉什·林博(Rush Limbaugh)称这种自杀行为“符合左派的某种形象”。他后来说自己谈论的是“自由派媒体”，但他现在的做法，却符合他一贯的风格：在需要表现出一些真正的同情时，找到最冷酷的话说。格伦·贝克(Glenn Beck)为The Blaze搭建的网站上，充斥着这种憎恨。一名读者在评论中写道，“依我看，好莱坞又少了一个给自由进步派捐钱、投票的人。”其他许多人也表达了同样的论调。面对互联网上的恶意言论，这位喜剧演员的女儿泽尔达·威廉姆斯(Zelda Williams)关闭了自己的社交媒体账户，“可能是永久”关闭。
We’ll never know if the bullies with public forums could drive Williams, who was 63, to severe depression. So much of chronic melancholy has more to do with clinical issues of the brain than immediate slights. And if Williams was indeed suffering from early stages of Parkinson’s disease, as his wife, Susan Schneider, announced Thursday, he could have sensed a coming diminishment of his talents.
我们永远无法得知，公共论坛上的欺凌，是否导致63岁的威廉姆斯患上了严重的抑郁症。相较于直接的冒犯，长期的郁郁寡欢更有可能来源于大脑的临床问题。如果真的像威廉姆斯的妻子苏珊·施耐德(Susan Schneider)周四所宣布的那样，他的确处于帕金森氏症早期，那么他可能已经感觉到，自己的天赋即将消散。
Life events can trigger a downward episode. And Williams, as an artist, was highly sensitive to nuances of success or failure, and the accelerated cycles of those two sides in the 21st century.
生活中的事件可能会导致情绪低沉。身为一名艺术家，威廉姆斯对于成功或失败的细微差别，以及21世纪二者之间更快的交替非常敏感。
He once said he heard “a little voice saying, ‘You’re garbage, you’re nothing.’ ” He did a riff, comic with a ring of haunting truth, about his GPS steering him over the Golden Gate Bridge. “I said: ‘Why? Have you seen my movies lately?’ ”
他曾经讲过，自己听到“一个很小的声音说，‘你就是垃圾，你什么都不是’。”他讲过的一段笑话里，传达了令人难以忘怀的真实情景。笑话中说，他的GPS指引他开到了金门大桥上。“我说：‘为什么？你最近看过我的电影吗？’。”
Ernest Hemingway, often called the greatest writer of the 20th century, realized that creativity has its own land mines. “That terrible mood of depression of whether it’s any good or not is known as the artist’s reward,” he said. Hemingway was emotionally wounded by the negative reviews of a novel published in 1950, “Across the River and Into the Trees.”
欧内斯特·海明威(Ernest Hemingway)常被称作20世纪最伟大的作家。他意识到，创造力也有自己的地雷。他说，“对于作品好不好的担心，会产生抑郁的糟糕情绪，这被认为是当艺术家的回报。”1950年出版的小说《过河入林》(Across the River and Into the Trees)引发的负面评论，伤害了海明威的感情。
Were he around today, a tortured, possibly medicated Hemingway would probably be hiding under his boat in Cuba. He would certainly hope, as all creative types do, that the well would never run dry. But he might find the pressure to do something original too much in the modern age.
如果海明威还在世的话，备受折磨，而且可能还需要接受药物治疗的他，或许会躲在位于古巴的船下面。他当然会像所有富有创造力的人那样，希望创作的源泉永不干涸。但他可能会发现，在现代，创作原创作品的压力太大了。