SEOUL, South Korea — The retired N.B.A. star Dennis Rodman said Monday that on his visit to North Korea last week, the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, trusted him enough to let him hold his baby daughter and asked him to bring a team of former basketball stars for games in Pyongyang and train the North’s basketball team for the next Olympics.
韩国首尔——NBA退役明星丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)周一称，上周访问朝鲜期间，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)非常信任他，不光让他抱自己的女儿，还请他带一支由前篮球明星组成的队伍去平壤比赛，并为下一届奥运会训练朝鲜篮球队。
Mr. Rodman, who had visited Pyongyang once before at the invitation of Mr. Kim, thus solved one mystery about the North Korean leader. Although Mr. Kim’s wife, Ri Sol-ju, was seen pregnant on the North’s state-run television last year, no outsider has reported having seen the baby, much less holding it. In an interview with The Guardian on Sunday, Mr. Rodman called Mr. Kim’s baby “Ju-ae.”
在此之前，罗德曼也曾应金正恩的邀请去过一次朝鲜。他的话解开了一个和这位朝鲜领导人有关的谜团。去年，朝鲜官方电视台的节目显示金正恩的妻子李雪主(Ri Sol-ju)已经怀孕，尽管如此，从来没有外部人士报称见过那个孩子，更别说抱过孩子了。周日接受《卫报》(The Guardian)的采访时，罗德曼称，金正恩的孩子名叫“珠爱”（音译）。
Speaking at a news conference arranged in New York on Monday by Paddy Power, an Irish betting company that helped finance his trip to Pyongyang, Mr. Rodman also revealed that Mr. Kim was 30 years old and that his birthday was Jan. 8. The age and birthday conform with what South Korean intelligence officials have said.
周一，赞助罗德曼朝鲜之行的爱尔兰赌博公司Paddy Power在纽约安排了一场新闻发布会。罗德曼在发布会上透露，金正恩现年30岁，生日是1月8日。金正恩的年龄和出生日期同韩国情报官员的说法相符。
Mr. Kim and Mr. Rodman have forged an odd friendship since the flamboyant N.B.A. legend made his first trip to Pyongyang in February. During that visit, Mr. Kim threw parties for him, and they watched a basketball game together. Mr. Rodman has since publicly professed his affection for his “friend,” Mr. Kim.
今年2月，这位作风招摇的NBA传奇人物首次前往平壤。自那以后，金正恩同罗德曼结下了奇怪的友谊。那次访问期间，金正恩为他举行了宴会，两人还一起观看了一场篮球比赛。从那以后，罗德曼一直在公开表示对自己的“朋友”金正恩的好感。
On Monday, Mr. Rodman said Mr. Kim gave him the right to write a book about him.
周一，罗德曼说金正恩授权他写一本关于自己的书。
“If you meet the marshal over there, he is a very good guy,” Mr. Rodman said, using the military title for Mr. Kim. “He doesn’t want a war.”
“如果你能去那里见见元帅，就会发现他是个特别好的人，”罗德曼说，“他不希望发生战争。”他用的是金正恩的军衔。
“If he wanted to bomb anyone in the world, he would have done it,” he said, apparently referring to Pyongyang’s recent moves to ease tensions after months of threats this year.
“如果有轰炸世上任何人的想法，那他肯定已经付诸行动，”罗德曼说。他明显指的是平壤最近的举动。平壤今年进行了几个月的威胁，最近则试图缓和紧张局势。
Mr. Rodman said he would put together a team of 12 former N.B.A. stars to travel to Pyongyang in January for one week. He said he hoped to recruit people like his former Chicago Bulls teammate Scottie Pippen and Karl Malone. They will play a North Korean team on Jan. 8 and another game two days later, he said. Mr. Kim promised a stadium and 95,000 fans.
罗德曼表示，自己将会召集一支由12名前NBA球星组成的队伍，在明年1月前往平壤，在那里停留一周。他说，他希望招到像前芝加哥公牛队(Chicago Bulls)队友斯科蒂·皮蓬(Scottie Pippen)和卡尔·马龙(Karl Malone)那样的人。他还说，这支队伍将在1月8日同一支朝鲜队伍比赛，并在两天后再进行一场比赛。金正恩承诺提供一个体育场和9.5万名粉丝。
Mr. Rodman said he planned to travel to Pyongyang in December to help select and prepare a North Korean team. A second set of games between the teams will also be played in June in Europe, according to an agreement between the North Korean minister of sports and Mr. Rodman that was read during the news conference on Monday.
罗德曼表示，他计划12月前往平壤，帮助朝鲜挑选和训练一支队伍。根据朝鲜体育部长和罗德曼达成的协议，两支队伍还将于明年6月在欧洲进行一轮比赛。周一的新闻发布会上宣读了这份协议。
Mr. Rodman said he accepted Mr. Kim’s request for him to train the North’s Olympic basketball team.
罗德曼说，金正恩想让他训练朝鲜的奥运篮球代表队，他接受了这个请求。
He criticized President Obama for not talking to Mr. Kim. Speaking of his “inside track” with Mr. Kim, he also challenged Mr. Obama to go to talk to him.
他批评奥巴马总统不跟金正恩对话。在谈到他和金正恩的“内部渠道”时，他说，奥巴马也应该去和金正恩谈谈。
“Even give him a call, that’s all he wants,” Mr. Rodman said, adding that Mr. Kim wanted to “change” and wanted conversations with Washington. “We are not a bad country,” he quoted Mr. Kim as saying.
“即使给他打个电话也行，他想要的不过如此。”罗德曼说，金正恩想“改变”，想跟华盛顿对话。“我们的国家并不坏，”他引用金正恩的话说。
Mr. Rodman said he was not trying to use his friendship with Mr. Kim to win the release of Kenneth Bae, an American missionary imprisoned in the country for “hostile acts.”
罗德曼说，他没有尝试用他与金正恩的友谊来帮助美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)获释。此人因对朝鲜的“敌对行为”被关押在该国。
“If you want this guy to be released, why don’t you ask Obama?” he said.
“如果你希望这家伙获释，为什么不去找奥巴马呢？”他说。