My father’s laughter introduced me to the comedy of Jonathan Winters. My dad was a sweet man, but not an easy laugh. We were watching Jack Paar on “The Tonight Show” on our black-and-white television, and on came Jonathan in a pith helmet.
是父亲的笑声把我带入乔纳森·温特斯(Jonathan Winters)的喜剧世界。我爸爸和蔼可亲，但不轻易大笑。我们当时在黑白电视上观看杰克·帕尔(Jack Paar)的《今夜秀》(The Tonight Show)，乔纳森戴着遮阳帽登场了。
“Who are you?” Paar asked.
“你是谁？”帕尔问。
“I’m a great white hunter,” Jonathan said in an effete voice. “I hunt mainly squirrels.”
“我是个伟大的白人猎手，”乔纳森用疲惫的语气说，“我主要是捕猎松鼠。”
“How do you do that?”
“你是怎么捕猎的？”
“I aim for their little nuts.”
“我瞄准他们的小果子（这个单词既有坚果的意思，也有睾丸的意思——译注）。”
My dad and I lost it. Seeing my father laugh like that made me think, “Who is this guy and what’s he on?”
爸爸和我笑喷了。看着爸爸笑成那样，我在想：“这个家伙是谁，是干什么的？”
A short time later, Jonathan was on Paar again. This time Jack handed him a stick, and what happened next was extraordinary. Jon did a four-minute freestyle riff in which that stick became a fishing rod, a spear, a giant beetle antenna, even Bing Crosby’s golf club complete with song. Each transformation was a cameo with characters and sound effects. He was performing comedic alchemy. The world was his laboratory. I was hooked.
不久之后，乔纳森又上了帕尔的节目。这一次杰克递给他一根棍子，下面发生的事精彩极了。乔进行了四分钟的即兴表演，这根棍子跟着音乐一会儿变成了钓竿，一会儿变成了长矛，一会儿又变成了巨大的甲虫触角，甚至还变成了平·克劳斯贝(Bing Crosby)的高尔夫球杆。每一段表演都是对角色和音效的精彩演绎。他表演的是喜剧炼金术。这个世界就是他的实验室。我迷上了他。
Not only was Jonathan funny on TV, but his comedy albums are also auditory bliss. One of my favorite routines involved a mad scientist who sounded like Boris Karloff. But instead of creating a Frankenstein, he made thousands of little men that he unleashed on the world. His shocked assistant cried out, “What are they looking for?”
乔纳森不仅在电视上很有趣，他的喜剧录音专辑也是听觉盛宴。我最喜欢听的其中一个节目是关于一个疯狂科学家的，他听起来像鲍里斯·卡洛夫(Boris Karloff)。他没有制造出一个弗兰肯斯坦式的怪物，而是制造了成千上万个小男人，他把他们放到了人世间。他的助手惊呼道：“他们在寻找什么？”
The professor replied, “Little women, you fool.”
教授回答说：“当然是小女人了，傻瓜。”
He also created comic characters like Maude Frickert and the overgrown child Chester Honeyhugger. In one classic pre-P.C.-era routine, he had Maude being molested by a huge farmhand. She protested, “Stop, I’m church people.” After he had his way, he was off to do his chores, and she called out, “Don’t be long.”
他还创作出了一些喜剧人物，比如莫德·弗里克特(Maude Frickert)，以及老小孩切斯特·哈尼哈格(Chester Honeyhugger)。像电脑诞生之前的经典故事套路一样，他让一个高大的农场工人调戏莫德。她反抗道：“住手，我可是信教的人。”他得手之后，离开去干活，她喊道：“不要离开太久。”
Mort Sahl said Jonathan was seen as a great improviser, but to him he was just being himself. He was a rebel without a pause, whether he was portraying the WASP who couldn’t get a decent martini in Mombasa or the cowboy who couldn’t ride a horse and backed out of frame. Jonathan’s wife, Eileen, maybe had the best quote. She said that Jonathan went through his terrible 2’s but that they lasted 20 years.
莫特·萨尔(Mort Sahl)说乔纳森是个伟大的即兴表演者，但是在他本人看来，他只是在做自己。他一直都很叛逆，不管是扮演一位在蒙巴萨（Mombasa，肯尼亚第二大城市）找不到像样的马提尼酒的盎格鲁撒克逊白人新教徒，还是扮演不能骑上马扬尘而去的牛仔。也许还是乔纳森的妻子艾琳(Eileen)说得最准确，她说乔纳森艰难地度过了他两岁那一年，不过那一年持续了20年。
In 1981, my sitcom “Mork & Mindy” was about to enter its fourth and final season. The show had run its course and we wanted to go out swinging. The producers suggested hiring Jonathan to play my son, who ages backward. That woke me out of a two-year slump. The cavalry was on the way.
1981年，我的情景喜剧《莫克和明迪》(Mork & Mindy)即将开拍第4季，那也是最后一季。这部剧即将走完它的旅程，我们打算全力以赴。制作人们建议邀请乔纳森扮演我的儿子，这个人物是越长越年轻。那个建议把我从两年的消沉中拉了出来。骑兵登场了。
Jonathan’s improvs on “Mork & Mindy” were legendary. People on the Paramount lot would pack the soundstage on the nights we filmed him. He once did a World War I parody in which he portrayed upper-class English generals, Cockney infantrymen, a Scottish sergeant no one could understand and a Zulu who was in the wrong war. The bit went on so long that all three cameras ran out of film. Sometimes I would join in, but I felt like a kazoo player sitting in with Coltrane.
乔纳森在《莫克和明迪》中的即兴表演堪称经典。有他出场的夜晚，派拉蒙片场的人挤满了我们的摄影棚。其中有一段关于“一战”的讽刺片段，他在其中扮演英国上流社会的将军们；操着伦敦腔的步兵们；一个苏格拉中士，他的口音没人能听懂；一个祖鲁人，他打仗找错地方了。那场戏演了很长时间，所有三个摄影师的胶卷都用完了。有时我也会加入，但我像是班门弄斧。
On one of his first days on the show, a young man asked Jonathan how to get into show business. He said: “You know how movie studios have a front gate? You get a Camaro with a steel grill, drive it through the gate, and once you’re on the lot, you’re in showbiz.”
乔纳森来剧组没几天，有个年轻人问他怎样才能进入演艺圈。他说：“你知道电影公司都有个大门吧？你就开着你的带钢挡泥板的大黄蜂轿车，从大门进来。能开进片场，你就算进了演艺圈。”
No audience was too small for Jonathan. I once saw him do a hissing cat for a lone beagle.
乔纳森从不在乎观众的多少。有一次我看见他在一只孤独的小猎犬面前扮演一只嘶嘶叫的猫。
His comedy sometimes had an edge. Once, at a gun show, Jon was looking at antique pistols and a man asked if he was a gun proponent. He said: “No, I prefer grenades. They’re more effective.”
他的幽默有时也很犀利。有一次，乔在一个枪支展览上看古董手枪，一个男人问他是否是私人持枪支持者。他说：“不，我更喜欢手榴弹。它们更有效。”
Earlier in his life, he had a breakdown and spent some time in a mental institution. He joked that the head doctor told him: “You can get out of here. All you need is 57 keys.” He also hinted that Eileen wanted him to stay there at least until Christmas because he made great ornaments.
他早年精神崩溃过，曾在精神病院住过一段时间。他开玩笑说，主治医师跟他说：“你能离开这儿。你所需要的就是57把钥匙。”他还暗示说，艾琳想让他在那里至少待到圣诞节，因为他能把那里装扮得很漂亮。
Even in his later years, he exorcised his demons in public. His car had handicap plates. He once parked in a blue lane and a woman approached him and said, “You don’t look handicapped to me.”
甚至到后来，他还在公开场合驱除内心的恶魔。他的车有残疾人牌照。有一次他停在残疾人车位上，一个女人走向他说：“我觉得你没有残疾。”
Jonathan said, “Madam, can you see inside my mind?”
乔纳森说：“夫人，你能看到我的内心吗？”
If you wanted a visual representation of Jonathan’s mind, you’d have to go to his house. It is awe-inspiring. There are his paintings (a combination of Miró and Navajo); baseball memorabilia; Civil War pistols and swords; model airplanes, trains, and tin trucks from the ’20s; miniature cowboys and Indians; and toys of all kinds.
如果你想看到乔纳森内心的画面，你得去他的家里看看。那里令人惊叹。里面有他的画（融合了米罗[Miró]和纳瓦霍[Navajo]的风格）；棒球纪念品；内战时的手枪和剑；20年代的飞机、火车和锡制卡车模型；微型牛仔和印第安人模型；各种各样的玩具。
We shared a love of painted military miniatures. He once sent me four tiny Napoleonic hookers in various states of undress with a note that read, “For zee troops!”
我们都喜欢彩色的微型军事模型。有一次他送给我4个小小的拿破仑时期的妓女模型，她们都没穿衣服，摆着各种姿势。还随附了一张纸条，上面写道：“为了你的军队！”
But the toys were a manifestation of a dark time in his life. Jonathan was a Marine who fought in the Pacific in World War II. When he came home from the war, he went to his old bedroom and discovered that his prized tin trucks were gone.
但是这些玩具展示出了他人生中的一段黑暗的时期。乔纳森曾是一名海军陆战队员，“二战”时在太平洋战场服役。当他从战场回到家中，走进他原来的卧室时，发现他钟爱的锡制卡车不见了。
He asked his mother what she did with his stuff.
他问母亲把他的东西弄哪儿去了。
“I gave them to the mission,” she said.
“我捐给教堂了，”她说。
“Why did you do that?”
“你为什么要那样做呢？”
“I didn’t think you were coming back,” she replied.
“我以为你不回来了，”她回答说。
Jonathan has shuffled off this mortal coil. So here’s to Jonny Winters, the cherubic madman with a stick who touched so many. Damn, am I going to miss you!
乔纳森已经摆脱了这种剧烈的痛楚。此致乔尼·温特斯，那个天使般的疯子，他的魔法棒打动了那么多的人。真是的，我会想念你的！