Some years ago, at a party at the Cannes Film Festival, I was leaning against a rail watching a fireworks display when I heard a familiar voice behind me. Or rather, at least a dozen voices, punctuating the offshore explosions with jokes, non sequiturs and off-the-wall pop-cultural, sexual and political references.
几年前，在戛纳电影节的某个派对上，我正倚着栏杆看烟花，身后传来一个熟悉的声音——或者说至少十几个声音，聊着疯疯癫癫的流行文化、性与政治，夹杂着笑话和胡言乱语，点缀在海边烟花的砰然巨响之间。
There was no need to turn around: The voices were not talking directly to me and they could not have belonged to anyone other than Robin Williams, who was extemporizing a monologue at least as pyrotechnically amazing as what was unfolding against the Mediterranean sky. I’m unable to recall the details now, but you can probably imagine the rapid-fire succession of accents and pitches — macho basso, squeaky girly, French, Spanish, African-American, human, animal and alien — entangling with curlicues of self-conscious commentary about the sheer ridiculousness of anyone trying to narrate explosions of colored gunpowder in real time.
没必要转过身去：那些声音不是在直接对我说话，它们也不可能属于别人，只可能属于罗宾·威廉姆斯(Robin Williams)，他正在即兴表演独白，和地中海的天空里展开的焰火一样精彩纷呈。如今我已无法回想起细节，但你大概可以想像他的口音和语调，如同连串喷射的火焰——大男人的口音、叽叽喳喳的女孩口音、法国口音、西班牙口音、非裔美国人口音、人类的声音、动物与异形的声音——不时还有一个清醒的声音，评论着实时描述彩色火药在空中爆炸这种行为有多么荒谬。
Very few people would try to upstage fireworks, and probably only Robin Williams could have succeeded. I doubt anyone asked him for his play-by-play, an impromptu performance for a small, captive group, and I can’t say if it arose from inspiration or compulsion. Maybe there’s not really a difference. Whether or not anyone expected him to be, and maybe whether or not he entirely wanted to be, he was on.
几乎没有人会尝试和烟花抢戏，而且大概只有罗宾·威廉姆斯才能胜出。我怀疑根本没有人邀请他为这一小群心醉神迷的观众做这场即席表演和现场评说，也说不清这是否出于一时的灵感抑或冲动。或许这根本没什么区别。不管有没有人希望他表演，又或许不管他自己是否愿意，他就这样上场了。
Part of the shock of his death on Monday came from the fact that he had been on — ubiquitous, self-reinventing, insistently present — for so long. On Twitter, mourners dated themselves with memories of the first time they had noticed him. For some it was the movie “Aladdin.” For others “Dead Poets Society” or “Mrs. Doubtfire.” I go back even further, to the “Mork and Mindy” television show and an album called “Reality — What a Concept” that blew my eighth-grade mind.
星期一他的死讯传来时，我的震惊部分来自于他竟然已经表演了那么久——无时无刻地表演、不断重新自我塑造、持续性的在场。在Twitter上，哀悼者们回忆第一次注意他时的影片。有些人是通过《阿拉丁》(Aladdin)认识他，有些人则是通过《死亡诗社》(Dead Poets Society)或《窈窕奶爸》(Mrs. Doubtfire)。我比他们都早，是通过《默克与明蒂》(Mork and Mindy)电视剧和一张名叫《现实——一个重要的概念》(Reality — What a Concept)的专辑，它令八年级的我兴奋不已。
Back then, it was clear that Mr. Williams was one of the most explosively, exhaustingly, prodigiously verbal comedians who ever lived. The only thing faster than his mouth was his mind, which was capable of breathtaking leaps of free-associative absurdity. Janet Maslin, reviewing his standup act in 1979, cataloged a tumble of riffs that ranged from an impression of Jacques Cousteau to “an evangelist at the Disco Temple of Comedy,” to Truman Capote Jr. at “the Kindergarten of the Stars” (whatever that was). “He acts out the Reader’s Digest condensed version of ‘Roots,’ ” Ms. Maslin wrote, “which lasts 15 seconds in its entirety. He improvises a Shakespearean-sounding epic about the Three Mile Island nuclear disaster, playing all the parts himself, including Einstein’s ghost.” (That, or something like it, was a role he would reprise more than 20 years later in Steven Spielberg’s “A.I.”)
回想起来，威廉姆斯显然是世上最有爆发力、最令人全神贯注、最令人震惊的语言喜剧大师。能快过他的语速的只有他的思想，他可以把许多荒诞的东西自由自在地联系到一起。1979年，珍妮特·马斯林(Janet Maslin)曾经报道过他的单人喜剧秀，列举了他一连串的即兴小段子，从对雅克·库斯托(Jacques Cousteau)的印象，到“喜剧迪斯科圣殿里的传教士”，再到小杜鲁门·卡波特(Truman Capote Jr.)在“明星幼儿园里”（不管它到底是什么东西）。“他表演《读者文摘》(Reader’s Digest)上的《根》(Roots)浓缩本，”马斯林写道，“一共持续了15秒。他即兴表演了一出莎士比亚式的史诗，是关于三里岛核事件的，他一个人饰演所有角色，包括爱因斯坦的鬼魂。”（20年后，在史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格[Steven Spielberg]的《人工智能》(A.I.)里，他再现了类似的东西）。
Onstage, Mr. Williams’s speed allowed him to test audience responses and to edit and change direction on the fly. He simultaneously explained and acted out this process in “Come Inside My Mind,” a two-and-a-half-minute tour de force of manic meta — “I’m doing great! I’m improvising like crazy! No you’re not, you fool! You’re just doing pee-pee-ca-ca, no substance!” But if Mr. Williams was often self-aware, commenting on what he was doing as he was doing it, he was rarely arch or insincere. He could, as an actor, succumb to treacliness sometimes — maybe more than sometimes — but his essential persona as an entertainer combined neediness and generosity, intelligence and kindness, in ways that were charming and often unexpectedly moving as well.
在舞台上，威廉姆斯的速度让他可以一边检验观众的反应，一边还能在匆忙中调整和改变自己的方向。《进入我的脑子》(Come Inside My Mind)是他一个两分半钟的疯狂绝活，他在其中一边解释，一边表演——“我很棒！我疯狂地即兴表演！不，你没有，你是个傻瓜！无非就是屎尿屁，什么内容也没有！”如果说他通常是一边表演，一边自省地评价自己的表演，那么他的评论通常不是顽皮的，而是真诚的。作为演员，他有时可以放低身段，表现得甜蜜可人——或许他经常这样做——但是作为娱乐者，他的真正人格中掺杂了需索与慷慨、聪慧与善良，它们格外富于魅力，通常会在意想不到的时候动人心弦。
In his periodic post-“Mork and Mindy” television appearances (on “The Larry Sanders Show” and more recently on “Louie”), he often played sly, sad or surprising versions of himself, the Robin Williams some of us had known and loved since childhood, which means an entertainer we sometimes took for granted or allowed ourselves to tire of. Many of his memorable big-screen performances were variations on that persona — madcap, motor-mouthed, shape-shifting jokers like the genie in “Aladdin,” the anti-authoritarian D.J. in “Good Morning Vietnam,” Parry in “The Fisher King” and even the redoubtable Mrs. Doubtfire herself.
演完电视剧《默克与明蒂》之后（他还曾在《拉里·桑德斯秀》(The Larry Sanders Show)，乃至最近的《路易不容易》(Louie)等电视节目中亮相），他经常饰演狡黠、悲伤或令人惊讶的角色，都是不同版本的他自己，这样的罗宾·威廉姆斯们，有的是我们从童年起就熟悉和喜爱的，是我们习以为常，或者有点厌倦的娱乐者。他那些令人难忘的电影角色有着人格的变化——那些疯狂的、健谈的、形体会发生改变的诙谐角色，比如《阿拉丁》里的灯神，以及《早安越南》(Good Morning Vietnam)里反抗权威的电台节目主持人、《渔王》(The Fisher King)里的帕里，甚至还有令人震惊的“窈窕奶爸”。
That was a role within a role, of course, and Mr. Williams’s best serious movie characters — or maybe we should say the non-silly ones, since an element of playfulness was always there — had a similar doubleness. Watching him acting in earnest, you could not help but be aware of the exuberance, the mischief, that was being held in check, and you couldn’t help but wonder when, how or if it would burst out. That you knew what he was capable of made his feats of self-control all the more exciting. You sometimes felt that he was aware of this, and that he enjoyed the sheer improbability of appearing as the straight man, the heavy, the voice of reason.
当然，它们是角色中的角色，而威廉姆斯最精彩的那些严肃电影角色——或许我们应该说不那么傻乎乎的角色，因为他的角色中总是带着一丝戏谑意味——也都有着类似的双重性。看着他带着诚挚所做的那些表演，你忍不住会注意到角色中蕴含的那种生机和顽皮，它们被约束着，你忍不住会想，它们什么时候会爆发出来，会怎样爆发出来，或者会不会爆发出来。你完全清楚他的本事，这令他的自控显得更加精彩。有时你会觉得他自己知道这一点，能装得一丝不苟，满脸沉重，装出理性的谈吐，这还让他觉得挺乐在其中的。