LOS ANGELES — Warner Brothers is doubling down on the J. K. Rowling business. The studio, whose blockbuster “Harry Potter” films have generated billions of dollars for the company, announced on Thursday that it had concluded a deal with Ms. Rowling that will include new movies, distribution rights to a television mini-series and new theme park attractions.
洛杉矶——华纳兄弟(Warner Brothers)正在J·K·罗琳的生意上加倍下注。这家电影公司周四宣布，已同罗琳达成一项协议，协议涉及新电影、一部小型电视连续剧的发行权以及新的主题公园景点。该公司出品的《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)系列大片已为华纳兄弟带来了数十亿美元收入。
Under the agreement, the studio said, Ms. Rowling, who wrote the “Harry Potter” books, will become a screenwriter for the first time, working on an adaptation of her “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them,” a book that extends the world of wizardry in the Potter series. In a statement, Warner said the movie would become the first in a planned series of films.
华纳兄弟称，根据这份协议，《哈利·波特》系列小说的作者罗琳将首次担任编剧，对自己的作品《神奇动物在哪里》(Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them)进行改编。该书延伸了《哈利·波特》系列中的魔法世界。在声明中，华纳兄弟称这部电影是列入计划的一系列电影当中的第一部。
The studio also said the agreement would permit new attractions and initiatives connected with its “Harry Potter” presence at the Universal Studios theme parks.
这家电影公司还表示，协议允许在环球影城主题公园里修建与《哈利·波特》场景有关的新景点，并举办相关活动。
In television, the deal makes Warner the global distributor of a BBC mini-series based on “The Casual Vacancy,” a Rowling novel that is aimed at adults. The mini-series is set for production next year, the studio said.
在电视剧方面，协议授权华纳兄弟在全球发行BBC根据《偶发空缺》(The Casual Vacancy)拍摄的一部小型连续剧。罗琳的这部小说面向的是成年人。华纳公司称，这部小型电视连续剧定于明年开拍。
The Rowling deal is a significant step for Kevin Tsujihara, who was recently named chief executive of Warner, after a long, internal competition for a post being vacated by Barry Meyer. The “Harry Potter” film series, which Warner started in 2001 with “Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone,” has been a huge success for the company. The final film, “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2,” took in more than $1.3 billion at the worldwide box office after its release in 2011.
这次跟罗琳签约，是华纳不久前新任命的首席执行官凯文·特苏哈拉(Kevin Tsujihara)迈出的重大一步；经过漫长的内部竞争，特苏哈拉成为了前任首席执行官巴里·迈耶(Barry Meyer)的接替者。 以2001年的《哈利·波特与魔法石》(Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s Stone)为开端，华纳拍摄的《哈利·波特》系列电影取得了巨大的成功。最后一部《哈利·波特与死亡圣器（下）》(Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2)于2011年上映，全球票房收入超过了13亿美元。
Ms. Rowling, who has become almost as closely associated with the studio as with her own books, said Warner executives had proposed the idea of a film based on “Fantastic Beasts,” and she counterproposed that she should be the writer, though she has not previously written screenplays.
罗琳跟这家制片公司之间的联系，几乎已经变得跟她自己的书之间一样密切了。她说，华纳高管建议拍摄一部以“神奇动物”(Fantastic Beasts)为蓝本的电影，而她提议由自己来当编剧，虽然她以前从来没有写过剧本。
“As I considered Warner’s proposal, an idea took shape that I couldn’t dislodge,” Ms. Rowling said in a statement. “That is how I ended up pitching my own idea for a film to Warner Brothers.”
“考虑华纳的建议时，我产生了一个挥之不去的想法。”罗琳在一份声明中说。 “就这样，最后我把自己对电影的想法告诉了华纳。”
She said she envisioned the film as “an extension of the wizarding world,” but not a prequel or sequel to the “Potter” series.
她说，按她的设想，这部电影会是“魔法世界的延伸”，但却不是《哈利·波特》系列的前传或续集。
Ms. Rowling has broadened her writing since the final Harry Potter book was published in 2007. “The Casual Vacancy,” published last year, featured dark themes like drug addiction and domestic abuse. This summer, she provided the surprise of the publishing world when it was revealed that she was the author of the mystery novel “The Cuckoo’s Calling,” which she wrote under the pseudonym Robert Galbreath.
自2007年《哈利·波特》系列的终结篇出版以来，罗琳已经扩大了自己的写作范围。 去年出版的《偶发空缺》(The Casual Vacancy)含有吸毒和家庭暴力之类的黑暗元素。今年夏天，出版界惊喜地发现，推理小说《布谷鸟的呼唤》(The Cuckoo’s Calling)的作者罗伯特·加尔布雷思(Robert Galbreath)其实是化名的罗琳。