One of the world’s most beautiful regions, the seas of Southeast Asia — home to sparkling white beaches and $7,000-a-night beach villas — is becoming a scene of a mass atrocity.
东南亚的海洋是全世界最美丽的地区之一，这里有闪亮的银白色沙滩和每晚7000美元的滨海别墅。然而就是这里正在发生一场大规模的暴行。
Thousands of refugees from the persecuted Rohingya minority in Myanmar, fleeing modern concentration camps at home, have fled to sea in boats, and many have drowned. Fearing a crackdown, smugglers have abandoned some of those boats at sea, and neighboring countries are pushing the boats back to sea when they try to land.
数千名在缅甸遭到迫害的罗辛亚(Rohingya)少数民族逃离了本国的现代集中营，乘船在海上逃命，许多人溺水身亡。由于害怕受到打击，蛇头抛弃了海上的一些船只。而这些船准备靠岸时，又会被邻国推回海上。
The Obama administration, which has regarded Myanmar as one of its diplomatic successes, is largely unhelpful as this calamity unfolds.
奥巴马政府把缅甸视作其外交成就之一，在惨剧发生之时基本上没有起到什么帮助。
“The Andaman Sea is about to become a floating mass grave, and it’s because of the failure of governments, including our own, to do what is necessary,” says Tom Andrews, a former member of Congress who is president of United to End Genocide. “Not only is there not a search-and-rescue operation going on right now — with thousands out to sea — but governments are towing these people out from their shores back to open sea, which is tantamount to mass murder.”
“安达曼海即将成为飘浮的集体坟场，原因就是各国政府，包括我国政府，没有做出必要的行动，”汤姆·安德鲁斯(Tom Andrews)说。“有成千上万人漂在海上，但当前不仅没有搜救行动在展开，各国政府还在把这些人从本国的海岸上拖回大海里，这无异于大规模屠杀。”安德鲁斯曾任国会议员，现在是“齐心终结种族灭绝”(United to End Genocide)组织的主席。
One appalling chapter of World War II came when the SS St. Louis left Germany in 1939 full of Jewish refugees fleeing the Nazis. Cuba and the United States barred them from disembarking, and — after passing so close to Miami that passengers could see the lights on shore — the ship returned to Europe, where many died in the Holocaust.
第二次世界大战期间发生过这样一个骇人听闻的事件。圣路易斯号客轮(SS St. Louis)于1939年满载着逃离纳粹迫害的犹太难民离开德国。然而古巴和美国都禁止他们登陆，这艘船当时离迈阿密很近，乘客都看到了岸上的灯光。这艘船最后返航欧洲，船上的许多难民后来都死于大屠杀。
Now refugees fleeing concentration camps are again denied landfall.
而现在，逃离集中营的难民们，又一次被拒绝登岸。
“We’re talking about a flotilla of St. Louises, and people are going to die,” Andrews told me.
“我们谈的是一支船队，相当于很多艘圣路易斯号，会有人死掉的，”安德鲁斯对我说。
Rohingyas are a Muslim minority reviled by the majority Buddhist population in Myanmar. The government has confined some 150,000 of them to 21st-century concentration camps: I visited these camps last year and wrote about starving children and camp inmates dying for lack of medical care.
罗辛亚人是一个穆斯林少数民族，他们受到了在缅甸占多数的佛教徒的仇视。政府将15万名罗辛亚人囚禁在了21世纪的集中营里。去年我探访了这些集中营，并且撰文讲述了在里面挨饿的孩子，以及因为缺乏医疗条件而死亡的在押者。
On Wednesday, there were unconfirmed reports of 20 Rohingya-owned shops being burned down in Maungdaw in western Myanmar near the border with Bangladesh.
周三，有报道称在缅甸西部临近孟加拉边界的孟都，有20家属于罗辛亚人的店铺被烧毁。报道尚未得到证实。
The United Nations says that more than 130,000 Rohingyas have fled by sea since 2012. Many fall prey to human smugglers who torture, rape and starve them in Thai camps until relatives pay ransom. The discovery of a mass grave this month from one such camp embarrassed Thai authorities into cracking down on human smugglers, leading the crews to abandon the ships, with their human cargo adrift at sea.
联合国称，自2012年以来，有超过13万名罗辛亚人通过海路逃离缅甸。许多人成为蛇头的猎物，在泰国的营地里忍饥挨饿，并遭到蛇头的虐待、强奸，直到有亲属支付赎金。本月，在逃亡者营地中发现一座集体坟墓的事件令泰国当局十分难堪。泰国当局于是开始打击偷渡，导致船员纷纷弃船，而装满人的货轮则漂浮在海面上。
Chris Lewa of The Arakan Project, a human rights group, said she has been in cellphone contact with two ships full of refugees, and she suspects that there are more farther from land and thus out of cellphone range. One is drifting without engines or adequate food, and she, as a private citizen, has been frantically trying to organize a search-and-rescue effort to save the passengers — so far, unsuccessfully.
人权组织“若开项目”(Arakan Project)的主任克里斯·莱瓦(Chris Lewa)说，她通过手机与两船难民保持着联系，她还揣测在距离陆地更远，手机信号无法覆盖的地方有更多难民。其中一艘船失去了动力，而且缺少食物。而她作为个人，一直在拼命地尝试组织搜救活动，挽救船上的旅客，但到目前为止并不成功。
Come on! If a suspected terrorist were on board, intelligence agencies would use that cellphone number to locate that boat. But 350 desperate refugees adrift at sea, and we’re going to shrug and let them drown?
天啊！如果船上有恐怖嫌疑人，情报机构恐怕已经用手机号锁定那艘船的位置了。然而350名走投无路的难民漂在海上，我们怎么能袖手旁观，坐视他们溺水呢？
Governments are probably uninterested in rescuing refugees for fear that they would then have to take them in. Thailand has long had a policy of sending refugee boats on their way, and Indonesia this week pushed two ships carrying hundreds of Rohingya back to sea. As for Malaysia, “we won’t let any foreign boats come in,” an admiral said.
各国政府之所以没有兴趣挽救难民，可能是因为担心救了以后就必须接收这些难民。泰国长期以来都在奉行赶走难民船的政策，印度尼西亚本周也把两艘载有数百名罗辛亚难民的船只赶回了海上。至于马来西亚，一位海军将领说，“我们不会让任何外国船只入境。”
Europe also has a refugee crisis, but at least European countries are mounting search-and-rescue operations to try to save lives. What Southeast Asian governments are doing is the opposite.
欧洲也面临着难民危机，但至少欧洲各国正在开展搜救行动，尝试挽救生命。而东南亚国家的做法却恰恰相反。
As a first step, President Obama should call the leaders of Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia, urging them to rescue and shelter refugees. The United States can also use military and intelligence assets to locate drifting refugee ships and assist with search and rescue.
第一步行动应当是，让奥巴马总统给泰国、马来西亚和印度尼西亚领导人打电话，敦促他们挽救难民并提供庇护所。美国也可以动用军事和情报资源，确定漂浮的难民船的位置，帮助搜索和救援。
Obama must also make clear that Myanmar cannot have a normal relationship with the United States as long as it engages in crimes against humanity. Just this month, the administration welcomed to the White House a senior official of the Myanmar government, Thura Shwe Mann, who has allied himself with extremist anti-Rohingya positions. In its statement afterward, the White House’s press office even avoided using the word “Rohingya,” apparently so as not to offend Myanmar.
奥巴马也必须阐明，只要缅甸从事反人类罪行，就不能与美国保持正常的关系。就在本月，政府刚刚欢迎缅甸政府的一名高级官员瑞曼(Thura Shwe Mann)访问白宫，此人认同反罗辛亚人的极端立场。在会晤之后发表的声明中，白宫新闻办公室甚至回避了“罗辛亚”一词，似乎是因为不想触怒缅甸方面。