ROME — The grass in some public parks sways knee high. Disgruntled subway workers have slowed service to a crawl. Fire has rendered the city’s largest airport crammed and chaotic. The arrests of public officials pile up, revealing mob infiltration of the city government.
罗马——公园的草皮长到膝盖高、不满的地铁员工消极怠慢、全市最大的机场因火灾陷入壅塞和混乱，还有一大票公务员遭到逮捕，揭露出市政府被帮派渗透的实情。
It all adds up to what Romans call “degrado” — the degradation of services, buildings and their standard of living — and the general sense that their ancient city, even more than usual, is falling apart.
罗马人称这些景象为“退化”(degrado)，他们用这个词来形容不断恶化的公共服务、建筑情况与生活水准。他们也比以往更能感受到，这古老的城市正在崩溃。
Not all those troubles are necessarily the fault of Mayor Ignazio Marino, a former surgeon whose own integrity remains unblemished. But, strangely enough, in Rome, his decency is not necessarily seen as part of the solution, either.
这些问题并不一定都是罗马市长伊尼亚齐奥‧马里诺(Ignazio Marino)的过错，这位市长曾是一名外科医生，他的正直尚未受到玷污。但奇怪的是，罗马人并不一定认为他的正直有助于解决混乱。
Born in Genoa and trained in the United States, Mr. Marino took office in 2013 as the unlikely leader of a city famed for its political intrigues. His outsider résumé initially appealed to Romans hoping for an honest broker with Anglo-Saxon credentials who could clean up their city.
马里诺生于热那亚，曾在美国学医。他在2013年接掌了这座以政治阴谋著称的城市。他作为局外人的背景起初唤起了罗马人的希望，期待这位有着盎格鲁-萨克逊印记的诚实的调停人，可以净化这座城市。
Today, Mr. Marino finds himself under political siege in the city he vowed to save from itself. Italy’s news media lampoons him as an honest man in over his head, or as one newspaper called him, a Forrest Gump.
然而宣称要拯救罗马的马里诺，当下在这座城市的政局中却身陷重围。意大利媒体嘲弄他是个惹上天大麻烦的老实人，一家报纸还直接给他冠以“阿甘”(Forrest Gump)的名号。
“His virtue is also his main problem: He is not connected to all the rotten Roman relationships,” said Carlo Bonini, an investigative journalist with La Repubblica, a daily newspaper. “He knows the world he operates in too little.”
“他的优点也是他主要的问题：他与罗马各种腐败的关系毫无瓜葛，”《共和报》(La Repubblica)的调查记者卡尔洛‧博尼尼(Carlo Bonini)表示。“他对自己管治的领域所知甚少。”
Romans are notorious for their cynicism about politics, their resignation in the face of antiquated services and sprawling bureaucracy, and their abundance of ways to complain about it. As the problems mount, residents are voicing more frustration with services inadequate to serve the city’s roughly 2.8 million people.
众所周知，罗马人对政治抱有犬儒主义的态度，对公共服务的陈旧和官僚体系的庞杂无可奈何，但也有数不清的方法来抱怨。如今问题堆积如山，城内居民也发出了更多沮丧的声音，抱怨公共服务难以满足该市近280万人口的需求。
“At times I do wonder whether this is a first- or third-world service,” said Liliana Marelli, 64. She was sweating as she rode a city bus with no air-conditioning during a recent heat wave.
“我的确会时常思考，这究竟是第一世界的服务，还是第三世界的水准，”今年64岁的莉莉安娜‧马略利(Liliana Marelli)表示。最近一波热浪来袭时，她满头大汗地搭乘着一辆没有空调的市内公交车。
In recent months, the situation in the capital has grown so dire that Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, himself a reformer, has expressed concern, fueling speculation that the city cabinet will be disbanded or that the mayor might be prodded to step down.
数月来，首都罗马的情况变得如此糟糕，以至于身为改革派的总理马泰奥‧伦齐(Matteo Renzi)本人也表达了关切，让人们开始猜测市政府团队是否会被解散，或者市长本人会被迫辞职。
Perhaps most damning for the mayor has been the slow-bleeding “Mafia Capitale” investigation, which has exposed tainted bidding for city contracts on a number of services, including refugee centers and sanitation. Even for a country more than accustomed to such scandal, the revelations have come as a shock.
市长最受人抨击的地方，或许是迟迟无法终结的“首都黑手党”(Mafia Capitale)调查。这宗调查揭露了市政服务合约投标的黑幕，难民中心与环卫设施也被卷入。尽管意大利已经对这样的丑闻习以为常，但案件揭露的事实仍令人震惊。
In the south, as well as in some northern regions, investigations have revealed that organized crime groups such as the Camorra, the ’Ndrangheta and the Mafia still exert surreptitious influence and dominate public bidding.
在意大利南部，乃至北部的一些地区，调查也揭示出一些犯罪组织仍在秘密地干预和控制公共项目的招标，如克莫拉(Camorra)、光荣会(’Ndrangheta)与黑手党等。
But Rome was supposed to be different. The seat of power of the national government, it was believed to be free of mafia tentacles.
但罗马是中央政府权力的中心，人们本以为它不会受到黑手党触角的荼毒。
While the corruption revealed by the scandal predated Mr. Marino’s arrival in office, the mayor has been criticized as responding slowly and indecisively. “He has always been a step behind,” Mr. Bonini of La Repubblica said.
尽管丑闻暴露出的腐败发生在马里诺上台之前，但这位市长还是被指责反应迟钝，犹豫不决。“他总是慢一步，”《共和报》的博尼尼说。
Police raids have set off a torrent of bad publicity as one powerful figure after another has been taken down. They include the former president of the City Council and top municipal officials responsible for housing and social policy.
警方的突击行动引发了一股负面新闻的洪流，因为权势人物一个接一个地被拉下马。他们包括前市议会议长，以及负责住房和社会政策的市级高官。
It has not helped that some are former members of Mr. Marino’s own Democratic Party. In wiretaps, publicized in the national news media, calls for obedience can be heard.
更糟糕的是，其中一些人是马里诺自己所在的民主党(Democratic Party)的党员。在全国性新闻媒体曝出的窃听录音中，可以听到有人想要别人服从。
“These city councilmen have to be at our orders,” Salvatore Buzzi, who ran a social cooperative that provided housing services for migrants, is heard telling a mob suspect, Massimo Carminati.
“这些市议员得听命于我们，”萨尔瓦托雷·布齐(Salvatore Buzzi)在录音中对涉嫌参与犯罪团伙的马西莫·卡尔米纳蒂(Massimo Carminati)说。布齐经营着一家为移民提供住房服务的社会合作机构。
Both were jailed last year when the corruption revelations first emerged, and most of the public figures linked to the scandal are now under house arrest.
去年，腐败丑闻首次曝出时，这两人均受到监禁。与丑闻有关联的大部分公众人物，目前也被软禁了。
Facing fierce criticism, Mr. Marino published a response in a national newspaper last week and then sat down for an interview last Friday in his office in Rome’s City Hall to defend himself.
面对激烈的批评，马里诺上周在一家全国性的报纸上发文回应。而后在上周五，他又坐在自己位于罗马市政厅的办公室里接受采访，为自己辩护。
“I was surgically aggressive from the very beginning,” he said. “I am the first mayor that called the investigators of our I.R.S. inside our offices to check what had been done in the years before.”
“我从一开始就像做手术时那样积极，”他说。“我是第一个要求税务机关的调查人员，在政府机构内部开展调查，了解此前几年的情况的市长。”
“We bring rules here,” he added.
“我们在这里建立了规则，”他接着说。
For the time being, though, his good intention to instill order has, it seems, ushered in still more disorder.
但目前，他逐渐恢复秩序的良好愿望，似乎引发了更多混乱。
The corruption investigation of park maintenance contractors led the mayor to suspend their work, leaving public spaces overgrown. His order to stop sidewalk vendors from peddling near historical sites prompted protests from merchants.
对公园养护承包商开展腐败调查后，市长叫停了它们的工作，导致公共场所杂草丛生。要求街边小贩不得在历史遗迹附近兜售商品的命令，引发了商贩的抗议。
Rome’s news media outlets have often criticized the mayor for being more interested in a foreign audience — courting wealthy patrons to restore the city’s antiquities — than in municipal troubles. As the crime scandal erupted, his popularity was already sinking as a result of problems more commonly encountered by mayors of larger cities.
罗马的新闻媒体常常指责这位市长更感兴趣的是国外受众——巴结有钱的金主，从而修复该市的古迹——而非市政难题。在犯罪丑闻曝出时，他的民意支持率已经在下降了，原因正是较大城市的市长，较为频繁地遇到的那些问题。
A recent survey published in La Repubblica found that a majority of Romans consider the mayor to be too weak, while more than 70 percent of those who supported him in the last election said they would not do so again.
《共和报》最近刊登的一项调查发现，大部分罗马人认为市长太软弱，而在上一次选举中支持他的人中，超过70%的人表示不会再这么做。
Once the scandal broke, critics said Mr. Marino was too naïve to grasp the vast illegal network that has long surrounded Rome’s administration, and too weak to respond.
丑闻一爆发，批评人士就表示马里诺狠抓庞大的非法关系网的做法太幼稚了，长期以来，这个关系网一直包围着罗马政府。他们还称他太软弱了，无力应对。
“He personally remains honest, but that’s it, as the world around him falls apart,” Ernesto Galli della Loggia, columnist for the daily Corriere della Sera, wrote in a front-page editorial last week.
“他本人还是诚实的，但仅此而已，但他周围的世界土崩瓦解了，”《晚邮报》(Corriere della Sera)的专栏作家埃内斯托·加利·德洛贾拉(Ernesto Galli della Loggia)上周在一篇头版评论文章中写道。
Mr. Marino argues that he has successfully shaken up the city’s entrenched networks, and that doing so has provoked much animosity. A few envelopes delivered in his mail contained spent bullets.
马里诺称自己成功地撼动了该市根深蒂固的关系网，而这么做激起了大量敌意。他的信箱里收到了几个装有用过的子弹的信封。
“I don’t give a damn about what the political agreements were before I arrived,” he said, adding that previous mayors made decisions in closed circles, often during lunches and dinners with famed entrepreneurs.
他说，“我毫不在乎我上任之前的政治协议。”他还说，以前的市长是在封闭的圈子里制定决策的，通常是在和知名企业家一起吃午饭或晚饭的时候。
“The most important thing to me is to run the city in an honest and transparent way,” he added.
“对我来说，最重要的是以一种诚实、透明的方式管理这座城市，”他接着表示。
Others are backing his efforts. “Marino might be an earthenware vase among iron vases,” said Alfonso Sabella, a Sicilian anti-mafia magistrate whom the mayor brought to Rome’s administration last December, after the scandal broke. “But he has proved to be persistent and honest.”
另一些人则支持他的行动。“马里诺或许是一堆铁瓶中的陶瓶，”西西里岛反对黑手党的地方执法官阿方索·萨贝拉(Alfonso Sabella)说。“但事实证明他是坚定、诚实的。”丑闻曝出后，市长让萨贝拉进入了罗马市政府。
He added: “I wonder where all those who are criticizing him were as the crimes were committed. He needs more time.”
他接着表示：“我倒想问罪行发生时，那些指责他的人在哪里。他需要更多时间。”
The mayor notched a victory last week when a report by a government delegate exonerated him of any corruption.
上周，这位市长赢得了胜利，因为政府的一名代表撰写的一份报告宣布，他没有任何腐败行为。
And he maintains that he has started substituting cronyism with merit in Rome, as the rules for public bidding are streamlined and a website has been set up to allow whistle-blowers to report problems.
他还坚持称，在罗马，选贤任能已经取代了任人唯亲，因为公开招投标规则得到了简化，并且还设立了一个网站，供举报人反映问题。
Many residents credit Mr. Marino for his honesty but are frustrated that he is not getting more done.
很多民众称赞马里诺的诚实，但对他没有做成更多事情表达了失望。