ROME — Pope Francis canonized two 19th-century nuns from Ottoman-ruled Palestine on Sunday, just days after the Vatican moved to formally recognize a state of Palestine, offering tacit support to a bid for full sovereignty.
罗马——周日，教皇方济各(Pope Francis)册封19世纪两名生活在奥斯曼帝国统治下的巴勒斯坦修女为圣女。而就在几天之前，梵蒂冈正式承认巴勒斯坦国，并暗示了对巴勒斯坦争取完全主权的支持。
The canonization of Sister Mariam Baouardy, who founded a Carmelite convent in Bethlehem, and Sister Marie Alphonsine Ghattas, who founded a congregation of nuns, was not related to the Vatican’s announcement last week of a new treaty with the Palestinians, Vatican officials said Friday.
周五，梵蒂冈官员表示，两名修女的封圣与上周梵蒂冈和巴勒斯坦新签订的条约无关。被封圣的玛丽亚姆·芭瓦蒂修女(Sister Mariam Baouardy)在伯利恒创办了加尔默罗会女修道院，另一位玛利亚·阿方西娜·加塔斯修女(Sister Marie Alphonsine Ghattas)则是一个修女会的创始人。
The two new saints, now named St. Mary of Jesus Crucified and St. Marie-Alphonsine, are being held up as beacons of encouragement to Christian communities in the Middle East that are being persecuted by Islamic extremists.
两名新封圣女将被称为“十字架耶稣的圣女玛利亚”(St. Mary of Jesus Crucified)及圣玛利亚-阿方西娜(St. Marie-Alphonsine)。她们被誉为鼓舞人心的引路人，激励着在中东地区受伊斯兰极端分子迫害的基督教社区。
Sunday’s ceremony in St. Peter’s Square was attended by the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, who met with the pope on Saturday, and about 2,100 people from the Palestinian territories, Jordan and Israel, led by the Latin patriarch of Jerusalem, Fouad Twal.
周六刚与教皇会面的巴勒斯坦民族权力机构主席马哈茂德·阿巴斯(Mahmoud Abbas)，参加了周日在圣彼得广场举行的封圣仪式，此外出席的还有天主教拉丁礼耶路撒冷宗主教福阿德·特瓦尔(Fouad Twal)及其带领的2100名来自巴勒斯坦、约旦和以色列的朝圣者。
Last week before leaving for the Vatican, the patriarch called the canonization of the two nuns “a spiritual event of prime importance for the citizens of the Holy Land, amid the difficulties we are experiencing.” He added: “As the Holy Land, wrecked by violence and dissent, has for some time had a tarnished image, our two saints emerge to restore its sanctity, reminding us that sanctity is possible even in the most difficult circumstances.”
上周在动身前往梵蒂冈之前，宗主教将两名修女的封圣典礼称为“对圣地民众来说具有至高无上意义的神圣仪式，尽管我们现在面临诸多困难，”他还说：“由于暴力和分歧的破坏，在过去一段时间里，圣地的形象被玷污了。然而，圣女的出现让圣地重归圣洁。这提醒着我们，就算在最糟糕的时候，圣地依旧可以保持神圣。”
Both new saints were given variations of the name Mary, a name “widespread and commonly used” in Christian, Jewish and Muslim traditions, Patriarch Twal said. “It is a sign of our modern time, which suggests that we can talk about the three religions without any discrimination,” he said.
两名新封圣女的称号都是玛丽(Mary)的变化形式，这个名字在基督教、犹太教和穆斯林传统中都“十分普遍，被广泛取用”，特瓦尔宗主教说，“这是一种现代的标志，我们现在可以不带任何歧视地谈论三种宗教。”
The two Arab nuns were also symbols of encouragement to women, whose role in some countries of the Middle East is still undervalued, said the Rev. Rifat Bader, director of the Catholic Center for Studies and Media in Amman, Jordan. As examples of the presence of Arab Christians in the region, he said, they offered “a message to our citizens to respect each other irrespective of religion.”
两名阿拉伯修女也象征着对女性的鼓励。在中东一些国家，女性的地位仍然被贬低，阿曼的天主教研究和媒体中心(Catholic Center for Studies and Media)主任里法特·贝德神父(Rev. Rifat Bader)说。作为该地区阿拉伯基督徒的典范，两名修女传递了“一个消息给我们的民众，要尊重对方，不管对方的宗教是什么”。
Two other women were also canonized on Sunday: St. Jeanne Émilie de Villeneuve, a French nun, and Maria Cristina of the Immaculate Conception, a nun from Italy. In his homily Francis praised the four women for the “luminous example” they set, living in unity with others “and with charity toward all.”
周日，还有两名修女被封圣：法国修女圣让娜·艾米莉·德威尔纳夫(St. Jeanne Émilie de Villeneuve)和意大利修女“无染原罪的玛利亚‧克里斯蒂纳”(Maria Cristina of the Immaculate Conception)。在训诫中，方济各赞扬了四位修女设立的“光明的典范”，她们与周围人团结在一起“慈悲地对待众人”。
“Inspired by their example of mercy, charity and reconciliation, may the Christians of these lands look to the future with hope, continuing in the journey of solidarity and fraternal coexistence,” the pope said.
“在她们的仁慈、善良与团结的激励下，愿这些土地的基督徒能够对未来抱有希望，继续团结和友好共处的旅行，”教皇说道。
The two Arab saints were born within a few years of each other. Mariam Baouardy was born in 1846 in a village in Galilee, and is said to have had visions and displayed stigmata, the wounds of Jesus. She went on to found Carmelite convents in Bethlehem and India, and died in 1878.
两名阿拉伯圣女出生时间相差仅仅几年。玛丽亚姆·芭瓦蒂于1846年生于加利利的一个村庄，据说曾有过神视，并拥有圣痕，也就是耶稣的伤痕。她在伯利恒和印度创办加尔默罗会女修道院，逝于1878年。
“Her life and intercession are a cry urging respect for religious and ethnic differences,” Father Rifat said.
“她的一生和她做出的调解都是在呼吁人们要尊重宗教和种族差异，”里法特神父说。