Olga Dogaru, the Romanian woman who told investigators that she had incinerated seven works of art by Matisse, Picasso and other modern masters in an effort to protect her son, denied in court on Monday that she had burned the works.
周一，罗马尼亚妇女奥尔加·多加鲁(Olga Dogaru)在法庭上否认了她之前告诉调查人员的说法。她曾声称自己为了保护儿子，烧毁了马蒂斯(Matisse)、毕加索(Picasso)及其他几位现代艺术大师的七幅作品。
Standing alongside her son, Radu, 29, who has admitted stealing the paintings in October from the Kunsthal museum in Rotterdam, Mrs. Dogaru, 50, told a panel of three judges that her earlier account of destroying the works in a stove at her house in the tiny village of Carcaliu was untrue. “I did not burn them,” she said in a soft voice.
她的儿子、现年29岁的拉杜·多加鲁(Radu Dogaru)已经承认了去年10月从鹿特丹艺术厅(Kunsthal)盗画一事。50岁的多加鲁太太站在儿子身旁，告诉三名法官，她之前所说的她在自己位于小村庄卡尔卡柳的家中，用炉子焚毁了这些作品的说法并不属实。她声音轻柔地说，“我没有烧毁它们。”
Alarm swept the art world last week when it appeared that the theft in the Netherlands had ended with a spasm of wanton destruction in a remote corner of Romania. The head of Romania’s National History Museum, Ernest Oberlander-Tarnoveanu, described the supposed burning as a “barbarian crime against humanity.”
上周，当荷兰失窃名画被人在罗马尼亚一个偏远角落焚毁的荒唐消息传来时，整个艺术界极为震惊。罗马尼亚国家历史博物馆(National History Museum)馆长埃内斯特·奥博兰德-塔尔诺韦亚努(Ernest Oberlander-Tarnoveanu)称焚画行为“对人类犯下了一次野蛮罪行”。
The artworks — paintings and drawings signed by Picasso, Matisse, Monet, Gauguin, Lucian Freud and Meyer de Haan — were stolen from the Kunsthal in a brazen nighttime robbery led, according to prosecutors, by Mrs. Dogaru’s son, who was arrested in Romania in January. Mrs. Dogaru told investigators in May that months earlier, in February, she had shoved the stolen artworks into a stove used to heat a sauna at her family home and then set them alight, in a desperate attempt to destroy evidence and save her son from going to jail.
检方称，这些艺术作品——签着毕加索、马蒂斯、莫奈(Monet)、高更(Gauguin)、卢西恩·弗洛伊德(Lucian Freud)及迈耶·德哈恩(Meyer de Haan)等名字的油画和素描——是被一个胆大妄为的抢劫团伙于夜间偷走的，而其头目就是多加鲁太太的儿子，他已于今年1月在罗马尼亚被捕。今年5月，多加鲁太太告诉调查人员，几个月前，也就是今年2月，她把那些偷来的画作扔进了家里蒸气浴用的炉子里，然后点了火。她这种绝望的举动，是为了销毁证据，让儿子免于牢狱之灾。
In the hearing on Monday, though, she said she had made it all up. When she was asked what had become of the stolen art, she stuttered and then denied that any burning of artwork had occurred.
然而在周一的听证会上，她却说上述说法都是自己编造的。当被问到那些失窃艺术品现在的情况时，她开始支支吾吾，然后继续否认这些作品已被焚毁。
The purpose of the hearing on Monday was to review a defense lawyer’s request that Mrs. Dogaru, who was arrested in March, and her son be released from detention while awaiting the start of their trial, scheduled for next month. 
多加鲁太太于今年3月被捕，她和她儿子将于下个月接受审判。一名辩护律师要求在等待审判期间释放他们。周一的听证会便是为了审核该律师的要求举行的。
Relatives and friends in the village of Carcaliu have long insisted that Mrs. Dogaru invented the incineration story, but fears that it might be true were bolstered last week when the National History Museum in Bucharest announced that forensic scientists had found ash material consistent with burned paintings, including copper tacks and pigments used by artists of the relevant periods.
卡尔卡柳村的亲属和朋友一直坚称焚毁画作的故事是多加鲁太太编造出来的。但是上周，位于布加勒斯特的国家历史博物馆宣布，司法科学专家在灰烬中发现了被焚烧画作的残余物质，其中还包括当时的艺术家经常使用的铜钉和颜料。于是，人们纷纷开始担心这些画作的确已遭焚毁。
Radu Catalin Dancu, Mrs. Dogaru’s lawyer, said after the hearing that his client had invented the story about burning the artworks “to protect her son and under pressure from prosecutors.” He said it was unclear what had become of the stolen works. “We might never find out what happened to the paintings,” he said.
多加鲁太太的律师拉杜·卡塔林·丹库(Radu Catalin Dancu)在听证会后说，他的委托人之所以编造焚毁画作的故事，是“出于护子之心，而且还面临着检方的压力”。他说，失窃作品的具体情况目前仍不明确。他说，“或许我们永远都不会知道那些画到底怎样了。”