To Olga Dogaru, a lifelong resident of the tiny Romanian village of Carcaliu, the strangely beautiful artworks her son had brought home in a suitcase four months earlier had become a curse.
奥尔加·多加鲁太太(Olga Dogaru)一辈子都住在罗马尼亚小村庄卡拉卡里。四个月前，她儿子带回家一箱子精美绝伦的艺术品。在她眼中，这些艺术品已经成了一个诅咒。
No matter, she said, that the works — seven in all — were signed by Picasso, Matisse, Monet, Gauguin, Lucian Freud and Meyer de Haan. Her son had just been arrested on suspicion of orchestrating the art robbery of the century: stealing masterpieces in a brazen October-night theft from the Kunsthal museum in Rotterdam.
总共七件艺术品上签着毕加索(Picasso)、马蒂斯(Matisse)、莫奈(Monet)、高更(Gauguin)、卢西恩·佛洛伊德(Lucian Freud)及麦耶·德·汉(Meyer de Haan)的名字，但她说这是无济于事的。她的儿子已经被捕。警方怀疑他谋划了一场艺术品盗窃世纪大案：在一个10月的夜晚，无耻地盗窃了鹿特丹艺术厅(Kunsthal)内的经典作品。
But if the paintings and drawings no longer existed, Radu Dogaru, her son, could be free from prosecution, she reasoned. So Mrs. Dogaru told the police that on a freezing night in February, she placed all seven works — which included Monet’s 1901 “Waterloo Bridge, London”; Gauguin’s 1898 “Girl in Front of Open Window”; and Picasso’s 1971 “Harlequin Head” — in a wood-burning stove used to heat saunas and incinerated them.
但是，多加鲁太太认为，如果这些画作不复存在，她的儿子拉杜·多加鲁(Radu Dogaru)就不会受到惩罚。所以，她告诉警察说，在2月一个寒冷的夜晚，她把那七件作品——包括莫奈的《伦敦滑铁卢桥》(Waterloo Bridge, London, 1901)、高更的《敞窗前的女孩》(Girl in Front of Open Window, 1898)及毕加索的《丑角头像》(Harlequin Head, 1971)——扔进一个蒸气浴用的柴火炉里焚毁了。
Mrs. Dogaru’s confession could be pure invention, and the works could be discovered hidden away somewhere. But this week, after examining ashes from her oven, forensic scientists at Romania’s National History Museum appeared on the verge of confirming the art world’s worst fears: her tale may be true.
多加鲁的供词可能纯粹是编造的，这些作品可能会被发现藏在别的什么地方。但是，本周罗马尼亚国家历史博物院(Romania’s National History Museum)的司法科学专家在检查炉中灰烬后，似乎即将证实艺术界最大的恐慌成为现实：她可能没有撒谎。
In total, the works were valued at hundreds of millions of dollars, but for curators and art lovers, their loss would be irreplaceable.
这些作品总共价值数亿美元，但是，对于策展人及艺术爱好者来说，这些作品如果被毁了，损失是不可弥补的。
“Unfortunately, I have a bad feeling that a huge and horrible crime happened, and the masterpieces were destroyed,” Ernest Oberlander-Tarnoveanu, the director of the National History Museum, said in a telephone interview on Thursday. If so, he added, it would be “a barbarian crime against humanity.”
周四，国家历史博物馆馆长埃内斯特·奥博兰德-塔尔诺韦亚努(Ernest Oberlander-Tarnoveanu)在接受电话采访时说，“不幸的是，我有种不好的预感，滔天罪行已经犯下了，这些杰作都被毁了。”他补充说，如果真是这样，那将是“对人类犯下了一次野蛮罪行”。
How Picassos, Matisses, Monets and other precious masterpieces may have met a fiery fate in a remote Romanian village, population 3,400, is something the police are still trying to understand. The theft has turned into a compelling and convoluted mystery that underscores the intrigues of the international criminal networks lured by high-priced art and the enormous difficulties involved in storing, selling or otherwise disposing of well-known works after they have been stolen.
毕加索、马蒂斯、莫奈及其他大师的珍贵作品，是怎么在一个有3400人口的偏远罗马尼亚村庄被付之一炬的，这仍是警察试图弄明白的一个问题。这次盗窃变成了一个引人瞩目的、错综复杂的谜，突显着高价艺术品诱惑下国际犯罪网络阴谋，以及名作被偷盗后，储存、出售或者处理等方面的巨大困难。
As in so many such mesmerizing capers, including an estimated $350 million worth of diamonds stolen from the Brussels airport recently, the theft itself is often easier than the fencing. It is a quandary, along with the lengths a mother might go to protect her son, that could help explain Mrs. Dogaru’s desperate actions, if she did what she says she did.
在这类引人瞩目的罪行中，包括最近布鲁塞尔机场价值3.5亿美元的钻石失窃案，很多时候盗窃本身往往比处理赃物简单。这一点，再加上一个护子心切的母亲，对理解多加鲁太太的疯狂举动是有帮助的，如果她真的烧毁了那些艺术品的话。
Mr. Oberlander-Tarnoveanu declined to say whether it had been established that the ash found in Mrs. Dogaru’s oven, which the police turned over to his investigative team, was in fact the burned remains of the stolen canvases. “That is for legal authorities to determine,” he said.
警方把多加鲁太太炉中发现的灰烬交给了奥博兰德-塔尔诺韦亚努的调查团队，但是，他拒绝透露是否已经确定这就是那些失窃作品所用画布的灰烬。他说，“这还需要法律专家来确定。”
But he said his team had discovered material that classical French, Dutch, Spanish and other European artists typically used to prepare canvases for oil painting, as well as the “remains of colors, like red, yellow, green, blue, gray.” The pigments included cinnabar, chromium green and lazurite — a blue-green copper compound — as well as tin-lead yellow, which artists stopped using after the 19th century because of toxicity. In addition, copper nails and tacks made by blacksmiths before the Industrial Revolution and used to tack canvas down were found in the debris. Such items would be nearly impossible to fake, he said.
但是他说，他的团队发现了法国、荷兰、西班牙及其他欧洲古典画家在准备画布时使用的材料，以及“红色、黄色、绿色、蓝色及灰色等颜料的痕迹”。这些颜料包括朱砂、铬绿、青金石——一种蓝绿色的铜化合物——以及铅锡黄。艺术家在19世纪之后就因为铅锡黄的毒性而不再使用这种颜料了。此外，灰烬中还发现了用于固定画布的铜钉和铁钉，是工业革命前的铁匠制作的。他说，这些物品几乎不可能是假的。
It would be harder to verify if two other works that were stolen, by Picasso and Matisse, were burned, Mr. Oberlander-Tarnoveanu said. More delicate than the other five works, the two were done in pastels and colored ink on paper. “Unfortunately, it’s impossible to assess those remains,” he said, “because the burned paper was basically turned into pure carbon.”
奥博兰德-塔尔诺韦亚努称，另外两件毕加索及马蒂斯的失窃作品是否被毁，则较难确定。这两幅作品比其他五幅作品复杂，是用蜡笔及有色墨水在纸上画成的。他说，“不幸的是，不可能检查那两幅画的灰烬，因为纸燃烧之后，基本上就纯粹是碳了。”
The stolen works were part of a collection amassed by a Dutch investor, Willem Cordia, that had been exhibited for only a week at the Kunsthal. The police say three men, led by Mr. Dogaru, 28, broke in through an emergency exit and snatched the seven works from the wall in just under two minutes. Mr. Dogaru was arrested in late January in Carcaliu.
这些失窃作品是荷兰投资家威廉·考迪亚(Willem Cordia)藏品的一部分，只在艺术厅展出了一周就被盗窃。警察称，28岁的拉杜·多加鲁带着另外两名男子通过安全出口闯进来，从墙上取下这七件作品。这一系列动作在不足两分钟内完成。拉杜·多加鲁于1月末在卡拉卡里被捕。
The other stolen works were Monet’s “Charing Cross Bridge, London,” painted in 1901; Matisse’s “Reading Girl in White and Yellow” from 1919; and de Haan’s “Self-Portrait” from 1890; and Freud’s 2002 “Woman With Eyes Closed.”
其余的失窃作品有莫奈的《伦敦查令十字大桥》(Charing Cross Bridge, London, 1901)、马蒂斯的《穿着白黄衣裳阅读的女孩》(Reading Girl in White and Yellow, 1919)、德·汉的《自画像》(Self-Portrait, 1890)及弗洛伊德的《闭着双眼的女人》(Woman With Eyes Closed, 2002)。
On Thursday, Gabriela Chiru, a spokeswoman for the Romanian public prosecutor, said the authorities were still investigating Mrs. Dogaru’s claims and were waiting to examine the findings produced by the museum’s forensics team. The investigation was expected to take months to complete.
周四，罗马尼亚检察院发言人加布莉埃拉·奇鲁(Gabriela Chiru)称，官方仍在调查多加鲁太太的说法，而且正在等着检查博物馆痕检团队提供的结果。据信该调查需要几个月才能完成。
In the absence of more definitive news, Dutch newspapers and some art dealers have speculated that the plunder might have been a contract job orchestrated by underworld figures, with the thieves picking their targets well ahead of time.
由于缺乏确切的信息，荷兰报纸及一些艺术交易商推测，这次失窃案可能是黑社会谋划的，雇佣了这些人作案，窃贼提前就瞄准了目标。
What is clear is that the thieves appeared to have been familiar with the security system at the Kunsthal. Shortly after 3 a.m. on Oct. 16, they deactivated it for a few minutes, then broke the lock on an emergency door without triggering alarms, the Dutch police said. The museum’s camera system showed two men entering and leaving in less than 96 seconds, carrying unusually wide backpacks stuffed with the works.
有一点是毫无疑问的，窃贼看起来已经很熟悉艺术厅的安保系统。10月16日刚过凌晨3点，他们就让该安保系统失灵了几分钟，在没有触动警报的情况下破坏了一扇应急门的锁。博物馆的监控录像系统显示，两名男子在不足96秒钟内进来又离开，背着极其巨大的大背包，里面装着这些作品。
Little is known about what followed. At some point, the Romanian police said, the works made their way to Carcaliu, which Mr. Oberlander-Tarnoveanu, the national museum director, described as “a remote and poor village.”
鲜为人知的是接下来发生了什么。罗马尼亚警方称，这些作品在这一过程中进入了卡拉卡里。国家博物馆馆长奥博兰德-塔尔诺韦亚努称卡拉卡里是“一个偏远贫困的小村子”。
In late January, the Romanian police raided the homes of Mr. Dogaru and several relatives and acquaintances.
1月底，罗马尼亚警方突检了多加鲁太太及几个亲戚和熟人的家。
Mr. Dogaru’s arrest appeared to have spurred his mother into action. In her statement to the police, Mrs. Dogaru said she panicked when she realized the works would be used as evidence against her son. With officers combing the village, she told the authorities that she had looked frantically for places to hide the works, which were all in a large plastic bag.
拉杜·多加鲁被捕，似乎刺激了他母亲出此下策。多加鲁太太在对警方的声明中说，当她意识到那些作品将被用作对她儿子不利的证据时，她感到惊恐。她告诉警方说，当警方在村子里四处搜查时，她到处找地方藏那些作品。那些作品都装在一个巨大的塑料袋里。
She hid them in various places, including her sister’s home and her garden. Then, she said, she buried them at the village cemetery. But that did not end her anxiety, she told the police.
她把它们藏在各种地方，包括她姐姐的家里和花园里。然后，她说，她把这些作品埋在了村子的墓地里。但她告诉警察，这并没有止住她的焦虑。
Fearful that the works could still be discovered, “an idea sprang into my mind,” she told the police, that if they were not found, there would be no evidence against her son and his friends.
她告诉警方说，她担心这些作品还是会被发现，“我突然想到了一个主意，”如果它们不被发现，就没有对她儿子和他的朋友不利的证据了。
In her statement, Mrs. Dogaru said she lighted a fire in the stove and went to the cemetery to get the works. “I put the whole package with the seven paintings, without even opening it, into the stove, and then placed over them some wood and my plastic slippers and waited for them to fully burn,” she said. “The next day I cleaned the stove, took out the ash and placed it in the garden, in a wheelbarrow.”
多加鲁太太在声明中称，她生了一炉子火，到墓地去把画拿来。她说，“我把装着那七幅画的整个大袋子，连打开都没打开，直接扔到了炉子里，然后在上面放了一些木柴，放上我的塑料拖鞋，等着它们充分燃烧。第二天，我清理了炉子，把灰烬取出来，用手推车运到花园里。
If her story is true, “then it has extinguished the last remaining glimmer of hope we had that the paintings might be returned,” said Mariette Maaskant, a spokeswoman for the Kunsthal. 
艺术厅发言人玛丽耶特·马斯坎特(Mariette Maaskant)说，如果她说的都是真的，“那么，我们对找回这些作品的最后一丝希望也被浇灭了。”