SEOUL, South Korea — Myeongdong Cathedral, the center of South Korean Catholicism, was a magnet for the country’s downtrodden for decades. Pro-democracy fugitives found asylum inside the red brick church in the center of Seoul during the darkest years of military dictatorship in the 1980s, and parents who lost their children to government torture sought solace there.
韩国首尔——几十年来，韩国天主教的中心、明洞圣堂吸引着这个国家受欺压的人们。在上个世纪80年代军事独裁最黑暗的年代，民主运动的逃亡者在首尔中心的这个红砖教堂里找到了庇护所，子女被政府刑讯折磨的父母们也曾在这里寻求安慰。
Today, the activists and their slogans are long gone. As dusk fell on a recent evening, the church was shrouded in quiet, away from the lights and bustle of the large surrounding shopping and hotel district. Unlike the red neon crosses of the country’s more popular Protestant churches, the cathedral’s cross was barely visible in the night sky.
如今，活动人士和他们的标语早已不复存在。在最近的一个晚上，随着暮色的降临，这个教堂笼罩在安静之中，远离周围大商场和酒店区的灯光和喧闹。与韩国更大众化的新教教堂上红色霓虹灯十字架不同，这个教堂的十字架在夜幕中只是勉强可见。
But the Catholic role in sheltering those who moved the country toward democracy has not been forgotten. And that history, experts say, could give Pope Francis an important opening during his visit to South Korea starting Thursday — his first trip as pontiff to the Far East, which is viewed as vital to the church’s future because much of its growth is outside traditionally Christian Europe.
但是，天主教为庇护那些把这个国家推向民主的人所起的作用并没有被遗忘。专家说，那段历史也许可以给教皇方济各(Pope Francis)的韩国之行提供一个重要开端，他的访问将于周四开始，这是他第一次作为教皇来亚洲，这个地区被视为对天主教的未来至关重要，因为天主教徒的大部分增长都来自传统基督教地区欧洲之外。
For the Argentine Francis, who was chosen to lead the world’s Catholics in part because of his allure for people in South America, a stronghold of the faith, South Korea presents an important test of whether his popularity there and in the United States and parts of Europe transfers to Asia.
方济各来自阿根廷，他被挑选出来领导世界上的天主教徒，部分是因为他在南美洲人民眼中富有魅力，天主教在南美洲势力强大。韩国之行对他来说是一次重要考验，看他在南美洲以及美国和部分欧洲地区深受欢迎的程度是否能转移到亚洲。
“From the vantage of the global demographics of Roman Catholicism, the pope’s presence is a powerful symbol of the Vatican’s recognition that it is in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa that the church is growing most prominently,” said Lionel Jensen, an expert on religion in Asia at the University of Notre Dame.
“从罗马天主教在全球的人口分布来看，教皇的到来是一种强有力的象征，它表明梵蒂冈认识到教会在亚洲和撒哈拉以南非洲的增长最为显著，”利昂内尔·詹森(Lionel Jensen)说，他是美国圣母大学(University of Notre Dame)研究亚洲宗教的专家。
The Vatican says the last papal trip to the region was in 1999, when Pope John Paul II visited New Delhi. Francis, who was installed last year, has made two international trips, the first to Brazil, where he attended an international gathering of young Catholics, and the second to Israel and Jordan.
梵蒂冈表示，上一次教皇访问亚洲是在1999年，当时教皇约翰·保罗二世(Pope John Paul II)访问了新德里。方济各去年被选为教皇，之后有过两次国际旅行，第一次是去巴西，他在那里参加了年轻天主教徒的一个国际聚会，第二次是去以色列和约旦。
To emphasize its increased focus on Asia, the Vatican has announced that the pope will travel early next year to the Philippines and Sri Lanka.
为了强调其更加重视亚洲，梵蒂冈宣布，教皇将在明年年初访问菲律宾和斯里兰卡。
Paolo Affatato, the director of a news agency with a Vatican office dedicated to spreading the faith, said that with its vast youth population, “Asia was the frontier of evangelization.” Part of the impetus for the pope’s trip to South Korea was to attend Asian Youth Day, a meeting of young Asian Catholics.
一个在梵蒂冈设有办公室的致力于传播天主教的新闻机构主任保罗·阿法塔托(Paolo Affatato)说，由于其大批的年轻人口，“亚洲是传播福音的前沿。”教皇出问​​韩国的动因之一是参加亚洲青年节，这是亚洲年轻天主教徒的一次会议。
South Korea is considered possible fertile ground for the pope, who has won accolades elsewhere for his humility and focus on the poor.
对教皇来说，韩国被认为是可能的沃土，他的谦逊和对穷人的关心已在其他地方赢得了赞誉。
The number of Catholics in South Korea grew from 1.86 million in 1985 to 5.14 million, nearly 11 percent of the total population, in 2005, the last year when a census on religious affiliation took place.
韩国天主教徒的人数，从1985年的186万增长到2005年的514万，近当时人口总数的11%，最近一次宗教信仰普查是在2005年做的。
Experts noted that John Paul’s two visits, in 1984 and 1989, helped spur Catholic growth in South Korea, where a majority of Christians remain Protestant, many of them Presbyterian. The number of Protestants, after years of exponential growth, peaked at 8.76 million in 1995, slipping to 8.61 million in 2005.
专家指出，约翰·保罗二世1984年和1989年的两次访问，促进了天主教徒人数在韩国的增长，韩国的大多数基督徒仍为新教徒，其中许多是长老会成员。新教徒人数在经过多年的快速增长后，于1995年达到顶峰876万人，之后出现下滑，2005年的新教徒人数为861万。
Ahead of Francis’ visit, new books on the pope in Korean have crowded bookstore shelves, and coins and postage stamps to celebrate his visit have been issued. The government of President Park Geun-hye, who was baptized as “Juliana” at a Catholic church but officially says she has no religion, plans a grand welcome.
方济各的访问到来之前，有关教皇的韩文新书在书店大量上架，还发行了纪念他来访的钱币和邮票。朴槿惠总统的政府表示将举行隆重的欢迎仪式，朴槿惠在一个天主教堂受洗时取名为“朱莉安娜”，但官方说法是她没有宗教。
It has planned to close traffic on Gwanghwamun Boulevard, the hub of South Korean political and cultural life, when Francis leads a beatification ceremony there. Francis’ appearance on the fabled street — surrounded by foreign embassies, museums and statues of Korea’s most beloved national heroes — would set a milestone for Korean Catholics and Christians in general, whose origins were marked by bloody persecutions.
政府计划对光化门大道实行临时交通管制，光化门是韩国政治和文化生活的中心，届时方济各将在那里主持一个宣福仪式。这条著名街道两旁遍布外国大使馆、博物馆，以及韩国最受崇敬的民族英雄的雕像，方济各在这里出现，不仅对韩国天主教徒、而且对韩国所有基督教徒都具有里程碑式的意义，基督教在韩国的起源中经历了不少血腥迫害。
Catholicism began taking root here more than two centuries ago, when Koreans studied imported books on the religion. The Joseon Dynasty saw Christianity as a subversive influence, and an estimated 10,000 Christians were beheaded, drowned, buried alive or tortured to death. During his five-day trip, Francis is scheduled to visit sites of those killings.
天主教于两个多世纪前在这里生根，当时的朝鲜人通过进口书籍开始了解这个宗教。朝鲜王朝把基督教视为一种颠覆性的影响，估计有1万名基督徒被斩首、淹死、活埋或折磨致死。在他为期五天的行程中，方济各计划前往那些曾经的杀人地点。
Today, Protestants and Catholics together make up nearly 30 percent of the South Korean population, and the churches are often credited with helping push forward the country’s modernization. But the South Korea that the pope will see this week is vastly different from the country that John Paul II visited more than two decades ago.
如今，新教徒和天主教徒人数总合已近韩国人口的30%，教会常常受到其帮助推动了国家现代化的称赞。但是，教皇本周将看到的韩国，与约翰·保罗二世二十多年前访问时看到的，有极大的不同。
After emerging from military dictatorship and building one of the world’s strongest economies, Koreans now fret over growing gaps between rich and poor. Some here hope that the pope’s visit will address a growing complaint among South Koreans that Christian churches are losing touch with the poor as wealthier people populate their pews.
摆脱了军事独裁统治之后，韩国建成了世界上最强大的经济体之一，韩国人现在担心的是日益加大的贫富差距。这里有人希望，教皇的访问将让人关注一个韩国人日益不满的问题：随着越来越多的富人加入教会，这里的基督教会正在疏远穷人。
Francis planned to visit a center for the disabled, and organizers of the trip invited laid-off workers to a special mass at the Myeongdong Cathedral.
方济各的行程安排包括参观一个残疾人中心，行程主办方还邀请了失业工人前来参加明洞圣堂的一个特别弥撒。
Also eagerly awaiting his arrival are the parents of many teenage victims of a ferry that sank in April. No matter their religion, the parents, who call the government investigation of the tragedy a whitewash, hope that the pope’s attention to their plight will help persuade the government to arrange an independent inquiry.
在热切等待他到来的人中，还有4月份渡轮沉没事件的许多遇难青少年的父母。不管他们信仰什么宗教，这些父母希望教皇对他们困境的关注，有助于说服政府启动对事件的独立调查，他们认为政府自己对那个悲剧进行的调查是粉饰太平。