The phrase “white-glove Manhattan co-op” has invariably conjured the image of a fortresslike residence whose precincts could be stormed only via a gantlet distinguished by mountains of paperwork and a daunting personal interview. The New York condominium, the relatively new kid on the block, has seemed the opposite: laissez-faire in everything, from rules governing pets and smoking to regulations determining who could rent an apartment.
“一流的曼哈顿合作公寓”(white-glove Manhattan co-op)这条短语，难免令人想起某个堡垒般的住宅区形象，要想攻克那种地方，只有先通过堆积如山的资料和令人胆怯的面试的两面夹击。而纽约市的共管公寓(condominium)这个新近才加入社区大家庭的孩子，看起来则恰恰相反：从管理宠物和吸烟的条例，到决定谁可以租住其中公寓的章程，在各方面都显得自由、任性。
Co-ops and condominiums are still two different animals. But in subtle yet tangible ways, each is taking on characteristics of the other as they compete for well-heeled buyers in an ever-more-challenging residential marketplace.
合作公寓(co-op)和共管公寓，仍是两个截然不同的物种。但从细微而具体的方面看，在这始终充满挑战的住宅市场内争夺富有买家时，二者却都带有对方的特色。
Although no co-op will admit to lowered admission standards, board members and applicants report brisker responses to applications and more welcoming personal interviews, traditionally so formidable that they were recently satirized on “Saturday Night Live.” And concurrently, in a shift that began a few years ago and is becoming more marked, many condominiums are imposing heftier and more numerous fees, tightening house rules and discouraging the short-term rentals that can give a building the hectic ambience of a hotel.
尽管没有合作公寓会承认自己降低了准入标准，但董事会成员和申请者们却有所反馈，认为申请要求得到了更积极的回应，面谈的气氛也更融洽友善了；而在传统上，这两件事都曾是那么的令人畏惧，以至于最近还受到过《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)节目的冷嘲热讽。与此同时，在一场始于几年前、并变得越来越显著的转变下，许多共管公寓开始收取更大比例且项目更多的管理费，对租赁条例严加约束，并打击了会让一栋公寓大楼像酒店般繁忙的短期租赁行为。
In both cases, financial considerations are the driving force.
无论是哪种公寓，对入住者财务状况的考虑还是最具决定性的。
“The issue is value,” said Eva Talel, a partner in Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, a law firm that represents the boards of more than 200 co-ops and condominiums in Manhattan. “The goal is to attract financially strong buyers, because everyone wants the best people. And because co-ops and condominiums compete in the same marketplace, what makes one more desirable has an impact on the other.
“问题的关键在于价值，”Stroock & Stroock & Lavan法律公司的合伙人伊娃·塔莱(Eva Talel)说，该公司代表着曼哈顿200多套合作公寓与共管公寓的董事会，“我们的目标是吸引实力雄厚的买家，因为每个人都想与最好的人为伍。而且，由于合作公寓与共管公寓在同一市场上彼此竞争，所以，让某一方更具吸引力的条件，也会对另一方产生影响。”
“Many of the high-end condominiums coming on the market, like 15 Central Park West, are socially desirable and can compete with any high-end co-op,” Ms. Talel said. “So to enhance value, co-ops want to make the admissions process more user-friendly, without sacrificing the building’s financial and neighborliness requirements, because if a seller gets a good price for an apartment, that benefits the entire building.”
“许多进入市场的高端共管公寓——比如中央公园西15号(15 Central Park West)，都是合乎社会需求的，能与任何高端的合作公寓竞争，”塔莱说，“所以，为了增强自身的价值，合作公寓想在不牺牲其对财务状况及邻里关系的要求的前提下，让准入流程更有利于申请者。因为如果一位卖家能以一个不错的价格出售一套公寓，那么整栋大楼都会由此获益。”
“And at some condominiums,” she added, “lax rules have led to many residents’ being unhappy with who their neighbors are. So these residents are pushing for more stringent admission criteria, especially when it comes to foreign buyers and increasingly to renters.”
“而在一些共管公寓楼中，”她补充道，“松懈的规章已经让许多住户对他们的邻居感到不满了。所以这些住户正在推动更加严格的准入标准，尤其是涉及到国外买家的时候，同时也越来越多地针对那些租客。”
CO-OPS
合作公寓
At Southgate, a co-op whose Deco-detailed buildings cluster in the far East 50s, the once-intimidating interview has experienced a makeover.
在索思盖特(Southgate)这处东五十几号街上的装饰艺术风格的合作公寓楼建筑群中，那种曾经令人胆怯的面试，已经历了一次革新。
“We wanted to be more user-friendly,” said Ellise Delphin Rose, a member of the board’s admissions committee. “An application requires an enormous amount of paperwork and invades most of a person’s privacy. So we don’t have to rehash everything at the interview. The main goal is to see if a person seems neighborly.” She describes the interview as “the emotional intelligence screening.”
“我们想对住户更加友善，”董事会准入委员会的一位成员埃利斯·德尔芬·罗斯(Ellise Delphin Rose)说，“一次申请需要做大量的书面工作，而且会侵犯一个人的大部分隐私。所以，我们不必在面试的时候就急于了解一切。面试的主要目的是看看这个人是否友善。”她形容这种面试为“情商筛查”。
“If a person has led a responsible life and has good letters of recommendation,” Dr. Rose said, “what’s the point of torturing or interrogating them or making them feel as if you’re doing them a huge favor by admitting them to your little club?”
“如果一个人过着负责任的生活，而且有不错的推荐信，”罗斯博士说，“那么何必要折磨或者审问他们，或让他们觉得，允许他们进入你的小圈子好像是在帮他们一个大忙呢？”
Southgate’s final verdict also comes more promptly. In the past, there was no particular hurry getting back to applicants after the board interview. “Now they generally learn the answer in one day,” Dr. Rose said. “And the answer is usually positive.”
索思盖特的最终裁决也来得更为及时了。过去，董事会面试之后并不急于给申请者反馈。“而现在，申请者一般会在一天之内就得到回复，”罗斯博士说，“而且回复通常是积极的。”
Brooke Bratton, a lawyer who moved to a two-bedroom in Southgate in May with her husband, Paul, an executive director of JPMorgan, and their daughter, Sydney, 6, was a grateful beneficiary of the new policies.
身为律师的布鲁克·布拉顿(Brooke Bratton)，五月份和丈夫——摩根大通(JPMorgan)的常务董事保罗(Paul)，以及他们6岁的女儿雪莉(Sydney)一起搬进了索思盖特的一套两卧室公寓。他们正是对这些新政策心怀感激的受益者。
“When it came to the board interview,” Ms. Bratton said, “I had no idea what to expect. Previously we’d purchased homes in Vermont and in Bronxville, and we just bought the property. It was as simple as that. But we were pleasantly surprised. The interview was very friendly, very conversational and relaxed. No one was shooting questions at us.”
“当进行到董事会面试这一环节的时候，”布拉顿说，“我不知道会面对什么。我们之前在佛蒙特州(Vermont)和布朗克斯维尔(Bronxville)都买过房，都是直接买下房产，就那么简单。但我们仍感到很惊喜。那次的面试非常友好，谈话轻松愉快。没有人接连不断地质问我们。”
And the icing on the cake? The next morning the couple received an email welcoming them to the building.
还能再锦上添花吗？第二天一早，这对夫妇收到了一封电子邮件，欢迎他们入住这栋公寓楼。
Shifts have also taken place at River House, the storied co-op on East 52nd Street overlooking the East River.
位于东52街(East 52nd Street)一栋俯瞰东河(East River)的多层合作公寓楼River House，也发生了很多转变。
“Our standards have not changed,” said John Allison, the board president. “Actually, they’ve gotten tighter in terms of examining people’s financials and determining whether they’ll be good neighbors. At the same time, the process has become easier than ever.”
“我们的准入标准没什么变化，”董事会主席约翰·艾利森(John Allison)说，“实际上，就考察住户的经济状况，和判断他们是否会成为好邻居的方面而言，这些标准还变得更严格了。但同时，申请流程也变得比以前容易了很多。”
“The time spent evaluating a person’s application was longer than we’d wish, sometimes as much as three to six months,” Mr. Allison added. “But starting about a year ago, we began getting back to people in less than 30 days.” Because of the more user-friendly and timely procedures, he said, brokers are now eager to refer clients to the building.
“过去，评估个人申请所花的时间比我们希望的更长，”艾利森补充道，“但从大约一年前起，我们开始在30天内给人们反馈。”由于流程变得更友善和及时了，他说，房地产经纪人们现在会积极向客户推荐这栋公寓楼。
As at Southgate, the board interview has undergone a makeover. “We want to make it very human, not a test,” Mr. Allison said. “It’s more open-ended, more conversational.”
在索思盖特，董事会的面试也有了新风貌。“我们想让面试显得非常人性化，不是一场测试，”艾利森说，“而是更加自由、更有对话感。”
Or as Philip Bobbitt, a Columbia Law School professor who with his wife, Maya Ondalikoglu Bobbitt, bought a three-bedroom penthouse at River House a year ago, summed up the experience, “It was a nice afternoon.”
或者，正如哥伦比亚法学院(Columbia Law School)的教授菲利普·博比特(Philip Bobbitt)及妻子玛雅·翁达丽科古鲁·博比特(Maya Ondalikoglu Bobbitt)一年前买下River House内一套三卧室顶层公寓后总结的体验一样，“那是一个美好的下午。”
Like many prospective co-op buyers, Ms. Bobbitt, a lawyer, had expected the worst when it came to the application process. “Most of our friends live on the Upper East Side, and we’d heard the horror stories,” she said. “That wasn’t our experience.”
和许多有远见的合作公寓买家一样，身为律师的博比特夫人对申请过程做了最坏的打算。“我们有很多朋友都住在上东区，所以我们听说过那些可怕的故事，”她说，“我们的经历却并不是那样的。”
Her husband agreed. “Fairly or not,” he said, “there’s a sense that co-ops can be a little capricious, a little arbitrary. But at River House, we didn’t feel that the board was playing games.”
他的丈夫也同意。“完全不是，”他说，“人们总觉得合作公寓的管理可能有点任性，有点武断。但在River House，我们并没有感觉董事会在耍我们。”
Still other changes have been put in place at River House. Brokers may now mention the building’s name and address in listings and show images of apartments on the market — all of which had been forbidden. The period during the summer in which residents may make alterations to their apartments has been extended past Labor Day.
此外，River House还有一些其它变化。经纪人们现在可以在挂牌信息中提到这栋大楼的名字和地址，并在市面上展示一些公寓单元的图片了——这一切原本都属于严禁之举。另外，夏季允许住户们改建公寓的时间段，已经延长到了劳动节（Labor Day，9月的第一个周一）之后。
Mr. Allison said the shifts were not prompted by what was going on in the condominium market — “It never crossed our minds” — but described them as motivated by economic realities.
艾利森说，这些转变并不是被共管公寓市场行情的变化所激发的——“我们从来没有这样的想法”——但他把这些变化说成是经济现状导致的。
“We’re an iconic building with a rich cultural history,” he said, “but having a great history doesn’t mean having a great future. The world is changing, and we need to change, too. The shifts in the condo market have just confirmed our view.”
“我们是一栋标志性的建筑物，具有丰富的文化历史，”他说，“但是，悠久的历史并不意味着美好的未来。这个世界正在改变，我们也需要改变。共管公寓市场中发生的转变，只是佐证了我们的看法。”
Steven Sladkus, a partner at Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz who represents co-op and condominium boards, has noticed other changes at co-ops. “Co-ops want to seem less nose-in-the-air, and they don’t want to make the buyer sweat so much,” Mr. Sladkus said. When it comes to board interviews, for example, he has seen instances of prospective buyers’ being offered drinks and snacks to warm up the proceedings.
史蒂文·斯拉德科斯(Steven Sladkus)，是代表合作公寓与共管公寓董事会的Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz律师事务所的一位合伙人。他注意到了合作公寓的其它变化。“合作公寓想让自己看上去不再那么傲慢，他们也不想让买家满头大汗，”斯拉德科斯说。比如说，他曾看到过一些实例，进行董事会面试的时候，会为潜在买家们提供饮料和零食，作为整个流程的热身。
Some people are also finding it less onerous to rent co-op apartments, as was the case for Emily Weinstein, 23, and her boyfriend, Russell Gilbert, 24. The pair, who moved from Atlanta last summer to take jobs at Big Four accounting firms, had their eye on a large one-bedroom in a Carnegie Hill co-op with a monthly rent in the mid-$2,000s.
有些人还发现，租住合作公寓也不再那么艰难了，正如23岁的艾米丽·温斯坦(Emily Weinstein)和她的男友，24岁的拉塞尔•吉尔伯特(Russell Gilbert)的例子一样。这对情侣去年夏天从亚特兰大(Atlanta)搬来，就职于四大会计师事务所(Big Four accounting firms)。他们在卡内基山(Carnegie Hill)看中了一套大户型的单卧室公寓，每个月的房租大约在2500美元（约合人民币15339元）。
“We had a strong financial statement, with savings and no liabilities,” said Ms. Weinstein, who was delighted by how speedily the process moved forward. In April, while still in Atlanta, the couple checked out the space via Skype, then sent in the required documents by overnight mail.
“我们有可靠的财务状况，帐户里有存款而无借贷，”温斯坦说，她对审核进行得如此之快感到高兴。四月份，还在亚特兰大的时候，这对情侣通过Skype看了看这个地方，然后通过隔夜送达的邮件递交了所需的文件。
“We found out that we had our board interview approximately one month later, and our interview took roughly 20 minutes,” Ms. Weinstein said. The broker, Aash Jethra of Citi Habitats, got the good news a few days later.
“结果大概一个月后，我们就做了董事会面试，那次面试进行了大约20分钟，”温斯坦说。花旗居屋(Citi Habitats)的经纪人艾什·杰思拉(Aash Jethra)几天后便收到了好消息。
Mr. Jethra, too, was impressed with the speed and ease of the process. “This is a co-op with a typically stringent board, a triumphant lobby, a rooftop pool,” he said. “Boards in this sort of building are usually looking for couples who are older, married, more advanced in their careers. These were new grads in their early 20s.”
杰思拉对整个过程的快速与轻松也感到印象深刻。“这是一栋具备严厉的董事会、华丽的门厅以及一个屋顶游泳池的合作公寓大楼，”他说，“这类大楼的董事会通常喜欢找一些年长已婚、事业已经达到一定高度的夫妻。而这对情侣刚毕业不久，才20出头。”
CONDOMINIUMS
共管公寓
At the city’s growing number of condominiums, things are changing in a different way. House rules are tightening — dogs are increasingly persona non grata — and fees are climbing and multiplying. Short-term renters — the airbnb crowd — are being discouraged, and even longer-term renters are finding the path more arduous.
从纽约市数量不断增长的共管公寓来看，事情正在发生着另一种转变。租房条约变得更加严格——宠物狗越来越不受欢迎；而各类费用也在攀升和翻倍。短期租户——airbnb群体感到受挫，甚至连长期的租客都觉得这条路变得更困难了。
Last year, smoking was banned at One Grand Army Plaza in Brooklyn, Richard Meier’s shimmering glass tower overlooking Prospect Park, at the urging of Dennis Sughrue, the president of the condominium board.
布鲁克林区的共管公寓楼“大军广场一号”(One Grand Army Plaza)，是一座俯瞰展望公园(Prospect Park)的闪亮玻璃高塔，由理查德·迈耶(Richard Meier)设计。在其董事会主席丹尼斯·萨格鲁(Dennis Sughrue)的督促下，此楼实施了禁烟。
“Secondhand smoke, firsthand smoke — it was really wrecking some people’s lives,” Mr. Sughrue said, “especially because it’s impossible to seal off individual units.” As a result of the change, he said, many residents have stopped smoking indoors, “in part because we will impose significant fines upon them if they do.”
“不管是二手烟还是一手烟，确实都会殃及一些人的生命，”萨格鲁说，“特别是因为，不可能把个人住宅完全密封上。”由于这一变化，他说，许多住户都在室内停止了吸烟的行为，“部分是因为，如果他们这样做，我们将对他们收取一大笔费用。”
Mr. Sughrue attributed the shift to a broader evolution at condominiums, which have already sharpened scrutiny of prospective buyers to make sure that they have enough money to foot the bills.
萨格鲁把这一变化归功于共管公寓更为全面的进化。这些共管公寓已经对未来的买家加强了审查，以确保他们有足够的钱来支付账单。
“People like the flexibility of condominiums,” Mr. Sughrue said. “But they expect the same quality of life and financial security as co-op owners. So we’re likely to see the adoption of more co-op-like rules.” His board, for example, has explored imposing new restrictions on residents who fall behind on their common-charge payments. “We can’t deny access to basic services,” Mr. Sughrue said. “But we can, and will, deny access to our fabulous roof deck.”
“人们喜欢共管公寓的灵活性，”萨格鲁说，“但是他们期待有合作公寓业主那样的生活品质和财务保障。所以，我们有可能看到，共管公寓会采用更有合作公寓风格的管理条例。”比如说，他的董事会已经尝试对拖延交纳日常费用的住户实施一些新的限制。“虽然我们不能切断某些基础服务，”萨格鲁说，“但我们不仅能、而且也的确会切断那些人去往美好的屋顶平台的路。”
Mr. Sladkus, the lawyer who represents co-op and condominium boards, has noticed other tactics used to cope with tardy payers. “For example,” he said, “the doorman won’t accept UPS packages or let in the guy delivering the Chinese food.”
代表合作公寓和共管公寓董事会的律师斯拉德科斯，已经注意到了其它一些用来应付拖延支付者的策略。“例如，”他说，“门卫可以拒绝签收UPS的包裹，或者不让送餐员把中式快餐送进楼去。”