WASHINGTON — Two long-range American bombers have conducted what Pentagon officials described Tuesday as a routine training mission through airspace recently claimed by China as its “air defense identification zone.”
华盛顿——五角大楼(Pentagon)周二表示，美国的两架远程轰炸机飞越了中国前不久宣布划定的“防空识别区”，完成了一次日常训练任务。
The Chinese government said Saturday that it had the right to identify, monitor and possibly take military action against aircraft that enter the area, which includes sea and islands also claimed by Japan. The claim threatens to escalate an already tense dispute over some of the maritime territory.
中国政府上周六表示有权对进入该区域的航空器进行识别和监控，甚或对其采取军事行动。该识别区覆盖了日本也声称拥有主权的海域和岛屿。这一声明可能会导致部分领海引发的本已紧张的争端升级。
American officials said the pair of B-52s carried out a mission that had been planned long in advance of the Chinese announcement last weekend, and that the United States military would continue to assert its right to fly through what it regards as international airspace.
美国官员称，那两架B-52轰炸机执行的任务在中国上周末发出声明之前很久就已列入计划，此外，美国军方还将继续维护飞越自己认定的国际空域的权利。
Pentagon officials said the two bombers made a round-trip flight from Guam, passing through a zone that covers sea and islands that are the subject of a sovereignty dispute between Japan and China.
五角大楼官员说，两架轰炸机完成了从关岛始发的往返飞行，飞越了引发中日主权争端的海域和岛屿所在的地区。
Officials said there had been no Chinese response to the bomber run.
官员称，中国未对此次轰炸机飞行做出回应。
The Obama administration has become increasingly worried by the tense standoff over the islands, which could drag the United States into a conflict. By treaty, the United States is obligated to defend Japan if it is attacked.
奥巴马政府越来越担心相关岛屿引发的紧张对峙，对峙可能会将美国卷入一场冲突。根据条约，如果日本受到攻击，美国有义务保卫日本。
The islands, called the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, are currently administered by the Japanese, who consider the airspace above the islands to be theirs as well.
这些岛屿在日本被称作尖阁诸岛，在中国被称作钓鱼岛，目前处在日本的管辖下。日本认为，这些岛屿上方的领空也属于自己。
On Tuesday, Josh Earnest, a deputy White House spokesman, reiterated the administration’s view that the Chinese announcement was “unnecessarily inflammatory” and had a “destabilizing impact on the region.”
周二，白宫副发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)重申了奥巴马政府的观点，认为中国的声明“具有煽动性，毫无必要”，而且“影响该地区的稳定”。
Within hours of the Chinese announcement that it had declared what Beijing termed an “East China Sea air defense identification zone,” Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel issued a statement expressing deep concern over the action.
在中国宣布划设北京方面所谓的“东海防空识别区”几小时后，国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)发表声明，表示对此举深感担忧。
“We view this development as a destabilizing attempt to alter the status quo in the region,” Mr. Hagel said. “This unilateral action increases the risk of misunderstanding and miscalculations.”
“我们认为，这一行动意在改变该地区的现状，会影响该地区的稳定，”哈格尔说，“这一单边行动增加了误会和错误估计的风险。”
Mr. Hagel noted, “This announcement by the People’s Republic of China will not in any way change how the United States conducts military operations in the region.”
哈格尔指出，“中华人民共和国的这一声明丝毫不会影响美国如何在该地区开展军事行动。”
Pentagon officials said the training sortie by the two B-52s could be seen as underscoring that commitment to preserving traditional rules of international airspace.
国防部官员说，两架B-52轰炸机的飞行训练可以被视为美方对上述承诺的一种强调，那就是要维护国际空域的传统规则。
Mr. Hagel’s statement said the United States had conveyed “concerns to China through diplomatic and military channels, and we are in close consultation with our allies and partners in the region, including Japan.”
哈格尔的声明说，美国已经“通过外交和军方途径向中方”转达“关切，此外，我们正在和地区盟友及伙伴进行密切磋商，包括日本。”
His statement concluded by noting that the United States is “steadfast in our commitments to our allies and partners. The United States reaffirms its longstanding policy that Article V of the U.S.-Japan Mutual Defense Treaty applies to the Senkaku Islands.”
他在声明末尾指出，美国“将坚定不移地履行对盟友和伙伴的承诺。美国在此重申自己的一贯政策，即《美日安保条约》(U.S.-Japan Mutual Defense Treaty)第五条适用于尖阁诸岛。”
The move by China appeared to be another step in its efforts to intensify pressure on Japan over the Japanese-controlled islands in the East China Sea that are at the heart of the dispute.
中国一直尝试就处于争议中心的日控东海岛屿问题对日本进一步施压，前述举动似乎是这方面的又一个步骤。
The declaration, from a Ministry of National Defense spokesman, Col. Yang Yujun, accompanied the ministry’s release of a map, geographic coordinates and rules in Chinese and English that said, “China’s armed forces will take defensive emergency measures to respond to aircraft that do not cooperate in identification or refuse to follow orders.”
在中国国防部发言人杨宇军上校发布识别区声明的同时，国防部还公布了一张地图、几个地理坐标和中英双语的规定，规定说“对不配合识别或者拒不服从指令的航空器，中国武装力量将采取防御性紧急处置措施。”
“The objective is to defend national sovereignty and territorial and air security, as well as to maintain orderly aviation,” Colonel Yang said in comments issued on the ministry’s website. One of the rules requires all aircraft flying in the zone to file flight plans with Chinese authorities.
杨宇军在国防部网站发布的评论中说，设立防空识别区“目的是捍卫国家主权和领土领空安全，维护空中飞行秩序。”根据其中的一条规定，在该区域飞行的所有航空器都须向中国当局报备飞行计划。
After the announcement Saturday, several Japanese commercial airlines began filing flight plans with China, according to the Japanese government. On Tuesday, Japan’s Transportation Ministry asked them to stop, and a group representing the two largest Japanese airlines, Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airlines, issued a statement later Tuesday saying that it would heed the request.
根据日本政府的消息，在中方上周六发布声明后，几家日本航空公司开始向中国报备飞行计划。周二，日本国土交通省(Japan’s Transportation Ministry)要求其停止报备，一个团体于周二晚些时候发布声明，表示会接受当局的要求。该团体代表日本最大的两家航空公司，日本航空公司(Japan Airlines)和全日空航空公司(All Nippon Airlines)。
The group, the Scheduled Airlines Association of Japan, said it had “determined that there was no concern about the safety of flights even if flight plans were not submitted to China.”
名为日本定期航空协会(Scheduled Airlines Association of Japan)的前述团体表示，他们已经“判定，即使没有向中国提交飞行计划，也无需担心飞行安全。”
Japan’s foreign minister, Fumio Kishida, said the government was in close communication with the airlines.
日本外相岸田文雄(Fumio Kishida)说，政府和各家航空公司保持着密切的沟通。
“I believe it is important for the public and private sectors to cooperate in showing our firm resolve to China,” Mr. Kishida said.
岸田文雄说，“我认为，为了向中国彰显我们的坚定决心，公共部门和私营企业的合作是至关重要的。”