A Maryland businessman who thrilled thousands of sick children with his impersonation of Batman over more than a decade was hit by a car and killed on Sunday on a highway in western Maryland, the state police said.
州警方称，一位来自马里兰州商人，周日在马里兰州西部的高速路上发生车祸死亡。他假扮“蝙蝠侠”超过10年，激励了数千重症儿童。
The man’s real name was not Bruce Wayne, but Leonard B. Robinson, 51, the father of three adult children from Owings Mills, Md., near Baltimore. For years he visited hospitals, schools and charity events dressed as the Dark Knight to the delight of thousands of children battling cancers and other serious diseases as well as bullying. He gave out thousands of dollars worth of gifts and books and signed autographs as “Batman.”
这名商人的真名不叫布鲁斯·韦恩（“蝙蝠侠”的真名），而是莱昂纳德·罗宾森，今年51岁。他是三个已成人孩子的父亲，住在巴尔的摩附近的欧文斯米尔。多年来他装扮成“黑暗骑士”造访医院、学校，参加慈善活动，使得患有癌症或其他重症的孩子、遭受欺凌的孩子们十分高兴。他还送给他们价值数千美元的礼物、图书和“蝙蝠侠”签名照。
The police said Mr. Robinson was having engine trouble late Sunday and had pulled over on Interstate 70 to look under the hood of his Batmobile, a custom-made black car decked out with the superhero’s insignia. He was standing on the car’s passenger side, which was still partly in the fast lane, when he was struck by a Toyota Camry that sideswiped the Batmobile.
警方称罗宾森在周日晚些时候遇到引擎故障，他把他印有“蝙蝠侠”标志的改装“蝙蝠车”停在70号州际公路上检查。当时他正站在部分处于快速车道上的车副驾驶位置，突然被一辆边擦上“蝙蝠车”的丰田凯美瑞撞上。
He was pronounced dead at the scene.
他被宣布当场死亡。
The driver of the Camry was not injured and no charges were filed against him, the police said.
警方说凯美瑞的司机并没有受伤，也没有受到任何指控。
Mr. Robinson gained national attention in 2012 after dash-cam video of him being stopped by police officers in Silver Spring, Md., went viral. He was pulled over for failing to display a license plate, but the officers, who were amused by the encounter, promptly let him go without a ticket so that he would not be late to an event at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital. The video has been watched more than 940,000 times on YouTube alone.
罗宾森在2012年因一段行车记录仪视频变得家喻户晓。视频中，他在马里兰州银泉市因为遮挡车牌而被警方拦下，但被逗乐的警察没开罚单就让他离开了，以便让他能够及时赶到乔治城大学医星医院（MedStar Georgetown University Hospital）参加活动。这段视频光是在Youtube上就有超过940,000次的点击率。
“When we replay the traffic-stop video, we smile and laugh, fondly remembering the day that MCP met a real superhero,” the Montgomery County Police Department said in a statement. “We hope that the Dark Knight’s bright light shines on.”
“当我们重看当时的视频时，笑声不断，想起那天我们遇到一名真正的超级英雄，心里就很高兴。” 蒙哥马利县警局在一份声明中说。“我们希望‘黑暗骑士’的光芒能一直照耀我们前行。”
Mr. Robinson, who made a fortune building a cleaning business that he later sold, began masquerading as the Dark Knight in 2001 to cater to an obsession of his youngest son. The boy grew up, but the role grew on Mr. Robinson, who became known variously as the Route 29 Batman, Beltway Batman and Baltimore Batman.
罗宾森以保洁公司发家，后又把其卖掉。他在2001年开始扮演“黑暗骑士”以满足小儿子对蝙蝠侠的痴迷。虽然后来儿子长大了，罗宾森先生却渐渐爱上了扮演蝙蝠侠。他又被称为 “29路的蝙蝠侠”，“高速路上的蝙蝠侠”或“巴尔的摩的蝙蝠侠”。
“Eventually, it sinks in and you become him,” he told The Washington Post in 2012. “It feels like I have a responsibility that’s beyond a normal person. And that responsibility is to be there for the kids, to be strong for them, and to make them smile as much as I can.”
“最终，它（指“蝙蝠侠”）和我融为一体。”他在2012年《华盛顿邮报》的采访中说。“我觉得我肩负着超出常人的责任，那就是陪伴孩子们，为他们变得更加强大，还有让他们都能像我一样微笑。”
Sharen Sumpter-Deitz, a board member of the South Charleston Convention and Visitors Bureau in West Virginia, said in a post on Facebook that Mr. Robinson was returning home from his third appearance at a festival there.
一名叫莎伦·桑普特戴茨的南查尔斯顿会议旅游局董事会成员在Facebook上发帖称，罗宾森先生当时正从该地的一庆祝活动中返家。这是他的第三次参加该活动。
He worked closely with Hope for Henry, a charity that throws superhero parties in hospitals and was founded by a couple whose son died from a rare blood disorder. “Our superhero, Lenny B. Robinson, is gone,” the charity said on Facebook on Monday. “So, so sad.”
他与“亨利希望基金会”（Hope for Henry）有紧密的合作。该基金会经常在医院举办超级英雄主题的聚会，它由一对因罕见的血液疾病而失去儿子的夫妇创立。 “我们的英雄，莱尼·罗宾森，离开了我们，”该基金会在Facebook上写道。“（我们）很悲伤”。