GENEVA — The United States and Russia reached a sweeping agreement on Saturday that called for Syria’s arsenal of chemical weapons to be removed or destroyed by the middle of 2014 and indefinitely stalled the prospect of American airstrikes.
日内瓦——美国和俄罗斯于周六达成了一项广泛的协议，要求在2014年中期之前转移或销毁叙利亚的所有化学武器，并且无限期推迟美国的空袭计划。
The joint announcement, on the third day of intensive talks in Geneva, also set the stage for one of the most challenging undertakings in the history of arms control.
双方在日内瓦进行了激烈的讨论，讨论进入第三天时，双方发布了这份联合声明，给历史上最具挑战性的军备控制行动之一铺平了道路。
“This situation has no precedent,” said Amy E. Smithson, an expert on chemical weapons at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies. “They are cramming what would probably be five or six years’ worth of work into a period of several months, and they are undertaking this in an extremely difficult security environment due to the ongoing civil war.”
詹姆斯·马丁防扩散研究中心(James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies)的专家艾米·E·史密森(Amy E. Smithson)说，“这种情况没有先例。他们这是把需要五到六年才能完成的工作压缩到几个月之内来处理，由于战争仍在持续，他们还得在一种极端困难的安全环境当中推进此事。”
Although the agreement explicitly includes the United Nations Security Council for the first time in determining possible international action in Syria, Russia has maintained its opposition to any military action.
该协议首次明确地把联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)列为对叙采取国际行动的决策者，尽管如此，俄罗斯还是坚持反对对叙利亚采取任何军事行动。
But George Little, the Pentagon press secretary, emphasized that the possibility of unilateral American military force was still on the table. “We haven’t made any changes to our force posture to this point,” Mr. Little said. “The credible threat of military force has been key to driving diplomatic progress, and it’s important that the Assad regime lives up to its obligations under the framework agreement.”
不过，美国国防部发言人乔治·利特尔(George Little)强调，美国采取单边军事行动的可能性依然存在。利特尔说，“就这一点而言，我们并没有改变我们的强硬姿态。真实可信的武力威胁一直是推动外交进程的关键，重要的是，阿萨德政权必须根据框架协议履行自己的义务。”
In Syria, the state news agency, SANA, voiced cautious approval of the Russian and American deal, calling it “a starting point,” though the government issued no immediate statement about its willingness to implement the agreement.
在叙利亚，官方通讯社阿拉伯叙利亚通讯社（Syrian Arab News Agency，简称SANA）对俄罗斯和美国达成的协议表示了谨慎的赞许，称协议是“一个起点”，但政府并未立即就是否愿意执行这一协议发表声明。
In any case, the deal was at least a temporary reprieve for President Bashar al-Assad and his Syrian government, and it formally placed international decision-making about Syria into the purview of Russia, one of Mr. Assad’s staunchest supporters and military suppliers.
无论如何，该协议至少暂时解救了叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)及其领导的叙利亚政府。它正式将国际社会有关叙利亚的决策纳入了俄罗斯的影响范围，而俄罗斯是阿萨德最坚定的支持者和军火供应商之一。
That reality was bitterly seized on by the fractured Syrian rebel forces, most of which have pleaded for American airstrikes. Gen. Salim Idris, the head of the Western-backed rebels’ nominal military command, the Supreme Military Council, denounced the initiative.
四分五裂的叙利亚反对派力量抓住这一事实表达了愤怒。之前，大部分反对派力量都请求美国进行空袭。西方支持的反对派名义上的军事指挥机构最高军事委员会(Supreme Military Council)主席萨利姆·伊德里将军(Gen. Salim Idris)对该协议表示了谴责。
“All of this initiative does not interest us. Russia is a partner with the regime in killing the Syrian people,” he told reporters in Istanbul. “A crime against humanity has been committed, and there is not any mention of accountability.”
“我们对这份协议的一切内容都不感兴趣。俄罗斯与这个政权狼狈为奸，屠杀叙利亚人民，”他在伊斯坦布尔告诉记者，“反人类的罪行已经犯下，协议却丝毫没有提及谁应对此负责。”
An immediate test of the viability of the accord will come within a week, when the Syrian government is to provide a “comprehensive listing” of its chemical arsenal. That list is to include the types and quantities of Syria’s poison gas, the chemical munitions it possesses, and the location of its storage, production and research sites.
该协议的可行性将在一周之内接受直接考验，届时，叙利亚政府将提供一份有关化学武器的“全面清单”。清单将包括叙利亚毒气的类别和数量、其拥有的化学弹药以及储备、制造和研发这些武器的地点。
Speaking at a joint news conference with his Russian counterpart, Secretary of State John Kerry said that “if fully implemented, this framework can provide greater protection and security to the world.”
在同俄罗斯外长举行的联合新闻发布会上，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)表示，“若能得到全面执行，这一框架将为世界带来更大的保护和安全。”
If Mr. Assad fails to comply with the agreement, the issue would be referred to the United Nations Security Council, where the violations would be taken up under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which authorizes punitive action, Mr. Kerry said.
克里说，如果阿萨德未能遵守协议，各方将把这个问题提交联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)。安理会将根据《联合国宪章》(United Nations Charter)第七章来讨论如何处理违规行为，该条款可以为惩罚性措施提供授权。
If the Russians objected to punishing Syrian noncompliance with military action, however, the United States would still have the option of acting without the Security Council’s approval. “If diplomacy fails, the United States remains prepared to act,” President Obama said in a statement.
然而，如果俄罗斯反对用军事行动来惩罚叙利亚的违约行为，美国依然可以选择不经安理会授权而采取行动。“如果外交途径归于失败，美国依然做好了行动准备，”奥巴马总统在一份声明中说。