WASHINGTON — House and Senate budget negotiators reached agreement Tuesday on a budget deal that would raise military and domestic spending over the next two years, shifting the pain of across-the-board cuts to other programs over the coming decade and raising fees on airline tickets to pay for airport security.
华盛顿——美国参众两院的预算谈判代表周二达成一项预算协议。根据协议，未来两年将提高军费和国内支出，并在未来10年把全面减支的痛苦转嫁到其他项目上，机票价格中的税费部分也将上涨，为机场安保提供资金。
The deal, while modest in scope, amounts to a cease-fire in the budget wars that have debilitated Washington since 2011 and gives lawmakers breathing room to try to address the real drivers of federal spending — health care and entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security — and to reshape the tax code.
尽管规模不大，这项协议仍然意味着自从2011年以来就一致困扰着华府的预算大战暂时停火，并且让议员们得到了喘息的空间，以着手应对联邦支出增长的真正原因——医改，以及联邦医疗保险(Medicare)和社会安全福利(Social Security)等福利计划——同时修改税法。
For a Capitol used to paralyzing partisan gridlock, the accord between Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, chairman of the House Budget Committee, and Senator Patty Murray of Washington, chairwoman of the Senate Budget Committee, was a reminder that even fierce political combatants can find common ground. Mr. Ryan praised the deal in the most elementary terms as a way to “get our government functioning at its very basic levels.”
对于习惯了令人崩溃的两党谈判僵局的国会，威斯康星州共和党众议员、众议院预算委员会主席保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)和华盛顿州民主党参议员、参议院预算委员会主席帕蒂·默里(Patty Murray)达成的协议提醒了人们，即使是狂热的政治对手之间也能达成共识。瑞安非常低调地称赞了该份协议，他说，该协议是“让我们的政府在最基本的层面正常运作”的一条途径。
Both negotiators promised an end to uncertainty and the lurching from crisis to crisis, at least for a year.
这两名谈判代表都承诺，至少在一年的时间里告别不确定性和危机不断的状态。
The deal drew praise from House Republican leaders, who are likely to put it to a vote by Thursday.
这项协议还得到了众议院共和党领导人的赞许，他们很可能于周四将其付诸投票。
“While modest in scale, this agreement represents a positive step forward by replacing one-time spending cuts with permanent reforms to mandatory spending programs that will produce real, lasting savings,” Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said in a statement.
众议院议长、俄亥俄州众议员约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)在一份声明中说，“尽管规模不大，但由于用法定支出的永久性改革代替了一次性减支，这项协议代表着向前迈出的积极一步，将会在长久的时间里带来真正的节约。”
President Obama also weighed in. “This agreement doesn’t include everything I’d like — and I know many Republicans feel the same way. That’s the nature of compromise,” he said. “But it’s a good sign that Democrats and Republicans in Congress were able to come together and break the cycle of shortsighted, crisis-driven decision making to get this done.”
奥巴马总统也发表了看法。他说，“这项协议并没有把我想要的所有东西都包括进去——我知道许多共和党人有同感。这就是妥协的本质所在。但国会的两党议员能够聚在一起，打破短视的、危机驱动的决策制定循环，这是一个好兆头。”
The proposal quickly drew fire from conservatives who saw it as a retreat from earlier spending cuts and a betrayal by senior Republicans. Some excoriated Mr. Ryan, the party’s vice-presidential nominee in 2012, for rolling back immediate spending cuts in exchange for promised savings that may never materialize.
这项提议很快招致了保守派人士的猛烈抨击，他们认为这是对早些时候减支措施的抛弃，也是来自资深共和党人的背叛行为。一些人严厉批评了瑞安，因为他为了可能永远不会实现的节约承诺，放弃了直接的减支措施。瑞安曾是共和党2012年副总统提名候选人。
For Democrats and their negotiator, Ms. Murray, the deal is a turning point in the spending wars that have dominated the Capitol since Republicans swept to control of the House in 2011.
对于民主党人及其谈判代表默里来说，这项协议是开支大战经历的一个转折点。自从2011年共和党人控制众议院之后，开支大战已在国会成为常态。
For Republicans and their negotiator, Mr. Ryan, the deal should mean the political focus can remain on Mr. Obama’s health care law and not on another round of budget brinkmanship next month, as the government moves to another shutdown.
对于共和党人及其谈判代表瑞安来说，这项协议应该意味着，政策的焦点仍将集中在奥巴马的医改法案上，而不是下个月可能迫使政府再次陷入停摆的的新一轮预算大战。
While the agreement had the backing of senior House Republicans, Heritage Action, the political arm of the Heritage Foundation and a group influential with rank-and-file House Republicans, came out against the deal even before it was announced, as did Americans for Prosperity, the advocacy group backed by the conservative Koch brothers, and Koch Industries, the brothers’ energy and paper conglomerate.
尽管协议得到了资深共和党众议员的支持，遗产基金会(Heritage Foundation)的政治分支、对普通共和党众议员颇具影响力的组织“遗产行动”(Heritage Action)甚至在协议被宣布之前就站出来表示反对，持反对立场的还有“美国繁荣”(Americans for Prosperity)。这家倡导组织受到了保守派的“科氏兄弟”(Koch brothers)以及其在能源和造纸领域的联合企业科氏工业集团(Koch Industries)的赞助。
“We will hold members accountable, Republican and Democrat, if they go forward and vote to raise spending above sequester levels,” said Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity.
“美国繁荣”的主席蒂姆·菲利普斯(Tim Phillips)说，如果有成员投票支持将支出提高到超过“自动减赤”的水平，我们将让他们做出解释，无论是共和党人还是民主党人。
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader who is up for re-election next year, also expressed reluctance to reverse automatic, across-the-board spending cuts mandated by the 2011 Budget Control Act if a broader, multitrillion-dollar deficit reduction deal could not be reached.
明年面临参议院选举的共和党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)也表示，如果无法达成一个更大范围的、数万亿美元的减赤协议，就拒绝更改2011年《预算控制法案》(Budget Control Act)规定的自动、全盘减支计划。
Military spending would be set at $520.5 billion this fiscal year, while domestic programs would get $491.8 billion. The $63 billion increase over the next two years would be spread evenly between Pentagon and domestic spending. Domestic programs would fare particularly well because the 2 percent cut to Medicare health providers would be kept in place, alleviating cuts to programs like health research, education and Head Start.
本财年的军费开支将设定在5205亿美元，而国内项目的预算为4918亿美元。未来两年增加的630亿美元的预算将平均分给五角大楼和国内项目。由于针对联邦医疗保险提供商的2%支出削减计划将会被保持，医疗研究、教育和学前教育计划(Head Start)等项目的预算支出削减将得到缓解，国内项目前景一片光明。
The increase would be paid for in part with higher airline fees that underwrite airport security. Higher contributions from federal workers to their pensions would save about $6 billion. Military pensions would see slower cost of living increases, a $6 billion savings over 10 years. Private companies would pay more into the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
上调的开支将部分来自于上涨的航空公司费，这部分收入还可以负担机场安保的费用。提高联邦雇员的养老金的缴付比例将节约大约60亿美元的支出。退休军人养老金中，生活成本的增长将会放缓，未来10年将节省60亿美元的支出。私人公司将会向美国联邦退休金担保公司(Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp.)支付更多保费。
Deep water, natural gas and other petroleum research programs would end.
深水钻井、天然气和其他一些石油研究项目将终止。
Democrats gave up their demand that the deal extend unemployment benefits that expire at the end of the month, but they hope to press for an extension in a separate measure.
民主党人放弃了在协议中延长将于本月底结束的失业救济的要求，但是他们希望用另一种方式推动失业救济的延期。
For Republican leaders, the deal would erase the threat of another government shutdown on Jan. 15, when the stopgap spending measure that reopened the government in October runs out. The government’s statutory borrowing authority will lapse as early as March, however, another potential crisis, but a budget deal allows Republicans to remain singularly focused on the health care law.
对共和党领袖来说，这项协议将消除美国政府在1月15日再次停摆的威胁。10月份让政府重新开门的暂时性开支措施将于1月15日到期。政府的法定借款授权将在明年3月终止，这是另一个潜在的危机。现在，由于达成了预算协议，共和党人可以继续专注于医改法案。