President Obama is even less likely to go through with a visit to Moscow this fall after Russia’s decision on Thursday to grant Edward J. Snowden temporary asylum. For Mr. Obama, though, the Snowden affair is only one of myriad reasons to beg off the scheduled meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin.
俄罗斯本周四决定为爱德华·J·斯诺登 (Edward J. Snowden)提供临时庇护之后，奥巴马总统今年秋天访问莫斯科的可能性变得更小了。不过，对于奥巴马来说，取消已经安排好的与普京总统的会晤有很多理由，斯诺登事件只是其中的一个。
The dispute over Mr. Snowden, the fugitive intelligence contractor, is less a singular sore point between the United States and Russia than a symptom of a relationship that has soured across the board. Even without it, administration officials and analysts said, it was not clear what Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin would talk about — let alone agree on.
斯诺登是一名逃亡的情报服务承包商雇员，关于他的争执，与其说是美俄之间一个异乎寻常的痛点，倒不如说是两国关系全面恶化的症状。政府官员和分析师们说，即使没有这件事，他们也不清楚有什么内容可以供奥巴马和普京商议 —— 更不用说达成一致了。
From the Syrian civil war and Iran’s new president to missile defense and nuclear arms reductions, the United States and Russia are miles apart on virtually every major issue they discuss.
从叙利亚内战、伊朗新总统，到导弹防御系统和削减核武器，在美俄讨论的几乎每一个重要议题上，两国的立场都相距甚远。
The White House, which began debating last month whether to cancel the September trip, said Mr. Obama still had not made a final decision. “Obviously this is not a positive development,” said the White House spokesman, Jay Carney. “We are evaluating the utility of a summit.”
白宫上个月开始讨论是否要取消9月之行，并表示，奥巴马还没有做出最后决定。“显然事情不是在朝着好的方向发展。”白宫发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)说。“我们正在评估峰会的意义。”
“There is no question that there are a range of issues, setting aside the disposition of Mr. Snowden, on which we are currently in disagreement with Russia,” he added.
“就算撇开斯诺登的事情不谈，我们无疑也在一系列问题上跟俄罗斯存在分歧，”他说。
The decline in the American-Russian relationship has been remarkably swift since Mr. Putin’s return to the presidency last year. Lately, it has taken on a tit-for-tat quality reminiscent of the cold war: Russia barred Americans from adopting Russian babies; the United States blacklisted 18 Russians accused of human-rights violations.
自从普京去年再次担任总统以来，美俄关系迅速恶化。最近，两国关系已经变得针锋相对起来，不禁让人想起冷战时期：俄罗斯禁止美国人领养俄罗斯婴儿；美国将18名被控侵犯人权的俄罗斯人列入了黑名单。
The Russian government gave the White House no advance notice of its decision on Mr. Snowden, Mr. Carney said, making it clear that weeks of public and private diplomacy had gone nowhere.
卡尼说，关于给予斯诺登庇护的决定，俄罗斯政府并没有提前通知白宫，很显然，数周以来的公共和私人外交努力没有取得任何成效。
For a White House keen to extract concrete results from a face-to-face meeting with Mr. Putin, the differences on geopolitical and security issues are an equally compelling reason to scrap the meeting.
白宫很希望跟普京的面对面会晤能产生具体成果，因此，地缘政治和安全问题上的分歧是取消会晤的一个同样令人信服的理由。
“If you look at the major issues — Syria, nuclear arms, missile defense — it doesn’t look like there would be anything to sign,” said Angela E. Stent, a former national intelligence officer on Russia who is now at Georgetown University. “The question is, What would they do?”
“在主要问题（叙利亚、核武器、导弹防御系统）上 ，没有迹象显示，美俄可能签署任何协议。”安吉拉·斯坦特(Angela E. Stent)说。她曾是俄罗斯事务方面的美国国家情报官员，目前在乔治城大学(Georgetown University)工作。“问题是，那他们谈什么呢？”
Mr. Putin, she said, does not appear interested in accelerating talks over reductions in nuclear stockpiles, which Mr. Obama made the centerpiece of his speech in Berlin in June. Mr. Putin continues to express suspicions that the American missile-defense system in Europe is targeted at Russia, even after it was modified by the Obama administration.
她说，奥巴马今年6月在柏林发表的讲话的核心是加快削减核武器库存，但普京对于协商这个问题没有表现出兴趣。即使奥巴马政府修改了美国在欧洲的导弹防御系统项目，普京还是怀疑，它针对的是俄罗斯。
On Syria, the Russians have refused to abandon their support for President Bashar al-Assad. Some analysts said the shifting momentum of the battle in recent weeks would only reinforce their belief that they were right. Russia is also viewed as more open than the United States to dealing with Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani.
在叙利亚问题上，俄罗斯一直拒绝放弃支持巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统。一些分析师说，最近几周的战势逆转，只会让他们更加相信自己是正确的。在对待伊朗新总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)时，人们也认为俄罗斯的态度比美国更加开放。
When Mr. Snowden first applied for asylum in Russia, Mr. Putin appeared to be trying to walk a fine line with the United States, warning Mr. Snowden that if he were granted permission to stay in the country, he could not disclose further classified documents.
斯诺登最初向俄罗斯申请庇护时，普京似乎想小心行事，避免触怒美国。他警告斯诺登，如果他获准留在该国，就不能泄露更多的机密文件。
“If he wants to stay here, there is one condition,” Mr. Putin said. “He must cease his work aimed at inflicting damage to our American partners, as strange as it may sound from my lips.”
普京说：“如果他想留在这儿，只有一个条件，那就是他必须停止旨在给我们的合作伙伴美国造成损害的行为，虽然这话从我的嘴里说出来有点奇怪。”
By granting Mr. Snowden asylum, however, Mr. Putin was implicitly rejecting the White House’s contention, repeated Thursday, that Mr. Snowden is not a whistle-blower but a rogue contractor accused of a felony, who poses a huge risk to his nation’s national security.
但是，通过给斯诺登提供庇护，普京含蓄地否定了白宫的论点；白宫在周四时重申，斯诺登不是揭秘者，而是被指控犯有重罪的承包商雇员，背叛雇主的他给自己祖国的国家安全带来了巨大风险。
Russian officials have told visiting Americans that harboring Mr. Snowden indefinitely in the transit area of Moscow’s airport was “beginning to look ridiculous,” and that there was no other option to move him, said Dmitri K. Simes, a Russia expert and president of the Center for the National Interest, a research center in Washington.
俄罗斯专家、国家利益中心(Center for the National Interest)主席德米特里·K·西梅斯 (Dmitri K. Simes)称，俄罗斯官员告诉到访的美国人，让斯诺登无限期地滞留莫斯科机场的过境区“开始显得荒谬起来”，而且要让他离开那里也没有其他办法。国家利益中心是一所位于华盛顿的研究中心。
But he and Dr. Stent both said the decision reflected a more fundamental calculation by Mr. Putin not to accommodate Mr. Obama. “However important it would be to have his position validated by a presidential visit,” Dr. Stent said, “that is trumped by other issues.”
但他和斯坦特博士都说，给斯诺登提供庇护反映了普京经过更深层次的权衡之后，决定不迁就奥巴马。“对于巩固普京的地位而言，无论一次总统级别的访问是多么重要，都还有比它更重要的事情，”斯坦特博士说。
The temporary nature of Mr. Snowden’s asylum could give Mr. Putin added leverage in the coming year, as he negotiates with Mr. Obama over issues like arms reductions, Syria and Iran. Despite an anti-American streak, Mr. Putin is deeply pragmatic, Dr. Stent said.
斯诺登获得的庇护属于临时性质，在未来的一年里，当普京就武器削减、叙利亚和伊朗等问题跟奥巴马谈判时，这可以给普京提供更多的筹码。斯坦特博士说，尽管普京有反美倾向，但他也极为务实。
The last time the two leaders met, at a Group of 8 meeting in Northern Ireland in June, Mr. Obama tried to lighten the tense mood with a joke about how age was depleting their athletic skills. Mr. Putin, with a frigid smile, replied, “The president just wants to get me to relax.”
两国领导人的上次会晤，是6月在北爱尔兰的八国集团(Group of 8)峰会上，当时，奥巴马试图缓和紧张情绪，讲了一个年龄正在削弱他们的运动能力的笑话。普京冷淡地微笑着回应：“奥巴马总统只是想让我放松。”
Given all the tension between the United States and Russia, Mr. Simes said that Russian officials would probably be just as relieved if Mr. Obama did not show up. The president is also scheduled to attend a meeting of the Group of 20 industrialized nations in St. Petersburg, and there was no indication on Thursday that he would pull out of that.
鉴于美国和俄罗斯之间的紧张关系，西梅斯说，如果奥巴马不来，俄罗斯官员很可能也松了一口气。奥巴马还是计划出席在圣彼得堡召开的二十国集团(Group of 20)峰会，本周四没有任何迹象表明，他不会参加那个会议。