DES MOINES — As Ben Milne sought money for the mobile-payment company he began developing here three years ago, investors responded with rejections by the dozens.
得梅因——三年前，本·米尔恩(Ben Milne)在这里创立了一家移动支付公司，他在为公司筹集资金时，遭到了数十名投资者的拒绝。
Eventually, he coaxed $1 million from a pair of local investors. His app, Dwolla, has since attracted more than 100,000 users, and now moves $30 million to $50 million in transactions a month.
最后，他终于从两名本地投资者手中拿到了100万美元（约合629万元人民币）。从那时开始，他的应用程序Dwolla吸引了10万多名用户，目前这个程序每月的交易总额在3000万到5000万美元。
So when he decided to seek a second round of financing last year, Mr. Milne, a 29-year-old college dropout, had an easier sell. This time investors courted him. This year, he announced that Dwolla had drawn another $5 million in capital from investors on both coasts, including Ashton Kutcher and a firm with Twitter and Foursquare in its portfolio.
所以，去年当他决定进行第二轮融资时，29岁的大学肄业者米尔恩不再那么犯愁了。这一次是投资者向他示好。他今年宣布，Dwolla又从全国各地的投资者手中获得了500万美元的投资，其中包括艾什顿·库彻(Ashton Kutcher)以及一家为Twitter和Foursquare提供了投资的公司。
From Des Moines to Omaha to Kansas City — a region known more for its barns than its bandwidth — a start-up tech scene is burgeoning. Dozens of new ventures are laying roots each year, investors are committing hundreds of millions of dollars to them, and state governments are teaming up with private organizations to promote the growing tech community. They are calling it — what else? — the Silicon Prairie.
从得梅因到奥马哈再到堪萨斯城，新兴科技公司正在这片以谷仓而非带宽闻名的区域快速发展。每年都有数十家新企业在这里落户，投资者为他们输送了数以亿计的美元，此外，州政府还与私营机构联合起来共同推动这个正在发展的科技社区。他们把它叫做——还能是什么呢？——“硅原”(Silicon Prairie)。
Although a relatively small share of the country’s “angel investment” deals — 5.7 percent — are done in the Great Plains, the region was just one of two (the other is the Southwest) that increased its share of them from the first half of 2011 to the first half of this year, according to a report commissioned by the Angel Resource Institute, Silicon Valley Bank and CB Insights.
虽然这个国家仅有相对较少的“天使投资”交易——约5.7%——是在大平原(Great Plains)地区完成的，但天使资源研究院(Angel Resource Institute)、硅谷银行(Silicon Valley Bank)和风险投资调研机构CB Insights委托制作的报告显示，美国有两个地区的天使投资交易比重在2011年上半年到今年上半年之间有所增长，其中一个就是大平原地区（另一个是美国西南部）。
Fifteen to 20 start-ups, most of them tech-related, are now established each year in eastern Nebraska, a more than threefold increase from five years ago, according to the Omaha Chamber of Commerce. Today, there is more than $300 million in organized venture capital available in the state, as well as tax credits for investors; six years ago there was virtually none, according to the chamber.
每年都有15到20家新公司在内布拉斯加州东部成立，其中大部分公司都与科技相关，奥马哈商会(Omaha Chamber of Commerce)称，这与五年前相比增加了两倍多。现在，该州拥有3亿多美元的有组织风险资本，此外投资者还享有课税津贴；商会表示，六年前这里实际上什么都没有。
About a dozen start-ups flocked to a single neighborhood in Kansas City, Kan., after Google Fiber installed its first ultrafast Internet connection there last week. And over the past seven months, about 60 start-ups have presented their ideas in Kansas City at weekly forums organized by Nate Olson, an analyst with the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation. In Iowa, Startup City Des Moines, an incubator financed with $700,000 in public and private money, including a quarter-million dollars from the state, received applications from 160 start-ups over the past two years. It has accepted 9 so far.
自从上周“谷歌光纤”(Google Fiber)在这里搭建了第一个超高速宽带网络之后，十多家新公司纷纷涌入了位于堪萨斯州堪萨斯城的一个社区。在过去七个月中，已经有大约60家新公司在堪萨斯城由尤因·马里昂·考夫曼基金会(Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation)的分析师纳特·奥尔森(Nate Olson)组织的每周论坛上介绍了自己的想法。在艾奥瓦州，为处于初始阶段的科技公司提供赞助的“得梅因创业城市”(Startup City Des Moines)通过公共和私人渠道获得了70万美元的资金，其中还包括州政府提供的25万美元，它在过去两年间收到了160家新公司的申请。目前，该组织已经批准了九家公司的申请。
“Traditionally, you’d say, ‘Hey, if I want the safe lifestyle, I’ll stay here and I’ll do what generations before have done,’ ” said Jeff Slobotski, an Omaha native who four years ago started Silicon Prairie News, a Web site covering the region’s tech scene. Now, he continued, “there is a newer potential in terms of what can take place here and not having to hop on the first plane out of here — saying, ‘Hey, I’m going to set up shop in the Midwest in our cities and make a go at it here.’”
来自奥马哈当地的杰夫·斯洛博茨基(Jeff Slobotski)说，“在以前，人们会说，‘嘿，如果我想要安全的生活方式，我会待在这里，像先辈们那样谋生。’”杰夫于四年前创办了一家报道地区科技动态的网站“硅原新闻”(Silicon Prairie News)。他又说，现在，“就这里能发生什么事情而言，出现了一些更新的潜在可能，我们不必跳上飞离这里的第一架航班，而是会说，‘嘿，我要在我们自己中西部的城市开业，并尝试获得成功’。”
Still, the region’s entrepreneurs insist that they are not striving to replicate Silicon Valley or other well-known tech hubs like Boston.
尽管如此，这一地区的企业家坚称，他们不是在力图复制硅谷或其他知名的科技中心，比如波士顿。
“We’re creating different types of start-ups using local ingredients,” said Christian Renaud, a principal at an information technology start-up incubator here.
当地一家信息技术创业孵化项目的主管克里斯蒂安·雷诺(Christian Renaud)说，“我们正在利用当地的资源，进行不同类型的创业。”
Among the companies that have started in the region over the past few years are Ag Local, a firm that created an online marketplace for trading meat; EyeVerify, which verifies people’s identities through eye-vein patterns; and Tikly, which created a platform for bands to sell concert tickets. But there also are many start-ups outside the information technology realm, focusing on fields like biotechnology, advanced manufacturing and medical devices.
过去几年里，在这一地区开始创业的公司中包括了Ag Local，它创建了一个进行肉类交易的网上集市；EyeVerify，它通过眼球血管辨别人们的身份；以及Tikly，它为乐队创建了一个销售音乐会门票的平台。不过，这个地区也有很多处于信息技术范畴之外的初创企业，它们致力于其他领域，像生物技术、先进的制造业和医疗设备。
Many entrepreneurs credit Silicon Prairie News for the region’s start-up growth. In addition to writing about start-up activity, The News also organizes conventions that connect entrepreneurs and investors. In the four years since its creation, Silicon Prairie News has covered the emergence of more than 80 companies in the region and more than 50 additional endeavors that spawned mobile or Web apps.
许多企业家赞扬“硅原新闻”为该地区的创业发展做出了贡献。除了报道创业活动，“硅原新闻”还组织会议，使企业家和投资人可以相互联络。创办四年以来，“硅原新闻”已经报道了该地区出现的80多家企业，和其他50多个催生了手机或网络应用软件的项目。
The Silicon Prairie still lags in national recognition as a start-up hub, however. Capital remains relatively sparse, and software engineers are in shorter supply than on the coasts.
虽然如此，作为创业中心，“硅原”依然未能在全国范围内获得足够认可。相比沿海地区，这里的资本相对稀少，软件工程师也更稀缺。
“We’re just not aware of, potentially, the opportunities that exist in a variety of places in the middle of the country,” said Stephen T. Zarrilli, the president and chief executive of Safeguard Scientifics, a Philadelphia venture capital firm that has invested in companies across the country but not in the Great Plains.
位于费城的风险投资公司Safeguard Scientifics的董事长和首席执行官斯蒂芬·T·扎里利(Stephen T. Zarrilli)说，“我们只是没有意识到，美国中部形形色色的地方存在的潜在机会。”Safeguard Scientifics投资的公司遍布美国全国， 不过尚未涉足大平原地区。
Tech enthusiasts in the region are hoping to change that by pointing to other strengths: lower costs and a work force focused more on building strong companies than moving on to the next big thing, they say.
这一地区的科技爱好者希望通过亮出当地的其它优势改变上述情况：他们说，这些优势包括，更低的成本、更专注于打造强大的公司，而不是转移到下一个宏伟目标的劳动力。