CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — “I continue to be much more concerned, when it comes to our security, with the prospect of a nuclear weapon going off in Manhattan.” So said President Obama last March, weighing the danger of nuclear terrorism against that of Russian aggression in Ukraine. Yet our research shows that his administration proposes cutting the amount of money spent on an array of programs to secure nuclear bomb materials around the world and keep them out of terrorists’ hands — to $555 million next year from $700 million in fiscal 2014. And in both houses of Congress, there are efforts to legislate a suspension of nuclear security cooperation with Russia.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇——今年3月，奥巴马在比较核恐怖主义与俄罗斯入侵乌克兰带来的威胁时说，“就我们的安全而言，我依然更关心核武器在曼哈顿爆炸的可能性。”但我们的研究发现，奥巴马政府提议，将一系列核项目的支出从2014财年的7亿美元（约合43.1亿美元）减至明年的5.55亿美元。这些项目旨在保护世界各地的武器级核材料，并且防止其落入恐怖分子手中。此外，国会两院都在努力推动立法，希望暂停与俄罗斯的核安全合作。
None of this makes sense, given the growing power of terrorist movements in the Middle East, the consequences if such terrorists made a crude nuclear bomb, and how modest the price of nuclear security has been — never more than two out of every $1,000 in America’s defense budget. Slowing these efforts would be penny-wise and pound-foolish. And cutting off cooperation now, when urgent tasks to improve nuclear security remain, would only add nuclear security to the list of victims of Russian aggression.
这些举措并不合理，因为中东地区恐怖主义活动的影响力不断加大，而如果这些恐怖分子制造出简陋的核弹，后果不堪设想，况且，核安全方面的支出一直不多——在国防预算中，此类开销从未超过0.2%。减缓核安全工作属于捡了芝麻丢了西瓜。在增强核安全的任务非常紧迫的当下，中断与俄罗斯的合作只会使其成为对方入侵之举的牺牲品。
This cooperation is not a favor to Russia. It is an investment in vital American security interests. Yet under the president’s proposed 2015 budget, funding for removing nuclear materials from vulnerable locations would be halved, to $58 million from $115 million, allowing fewer such removals than in any year in the past decade. Converting research reactors from high-enriched to low-enriched uranium fuel would be extended five more years; deploying border equipment to detect smuggling would be delayed; work to better protect sites where radiological material (useful for dirty bombs) is stored could slow so much that the task wouldn’t be finished until 2074.
与俄罗斯开展合作并不是给它的特殊照顾，而是为了保障美国重要安全利益的一种投入。然而，根据总统提出的2015年度预算方案，用于将核材料从易受攻击地区移除的资金将会减半，从1.15亿美元降至5800万美元，从而将迫使这项工作的规模小于过去十年中的任何一年。将研究用反应堆的高浓缩铀燃料转换成低浓缩铀的工作会被再拉长五年；在边境地区探查走私活动的设备也将推迟配置；更好地保护（可用于制造脏弹的）放射性物质储存场所的工作会大幅放缓，以至于在2074年前无法完成任务。
American efforts abroad to secure nuclear weapons and materials remain one of the few policy areas with deep bipartisan support. They began at the urging of Senators Sam Nunn of Georgia, a Democrat, and Richard Lugar of Indiana, a Republican, under President George Bush, as the Soviet Union crumbled a quarter-century ago. President Bill Clinton deepened cooperation with Russia, establishing the current range of programs. After 9/11, President George W. Bush doubled their total budget.
美国在境外保护核武器及核材料的举措仍是少有的获得两党高度支持的政策领域之一。乔治·布什(George Bush)执政时期，也就是25年前苏联解体的时候，在乔治亚州民主党参议员萨姆·纳恩(Sam Nunn)与印第安纳州共和党参议员理查德·卢格(Richard Lugar)的推动下，美国开始采取此类行动。比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统进一步深化了与俄罗斯的合作，确立了这些项目现在的范畴。9·11之后，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统将此类项目的总预算增加了一倍。
President Obama has emphasized the concept of nuclear security; in 2010 he hosted a Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, and he has attended two more — in Seoul in 2012 and Amsterdam last March.
奥巴马总统一直在强调核安全的观念：他于2010年在华盛顿主持了核安全峰会(Nuclear Security Summit)，还于2012年及今年3月出席了分别在首尔和阿姆斯特丹举行的两届峰会。
Guarding Russia’s stockpile remains a key concern, but the program’s scope now also includes work with many other countries. Twenty-six nations have been helped either to reduce the enrichment level of uranium stocks that could have become bomb fuel, or to verify the shutdown of reactors fueled by high-enriched uranium. A key achievement of the last Nuclear Security Summit was Japan’s decision to dispose of hundreds of pounds of high-enriched uranium and plutonium. Storage sites that once had gaping holes in their fences and lacked detectors to sound an alarm if someone was smuggling out plutonium now hold the material in steel vaults with security cameras and detectors; they also require identification cards and passwords for workers to pass through forbidding security doors.
俄罗斯核储备的保护工作仍是一个主要问题，但此类项目目前还涉及很多其他国家。美国为26个国家提供了帮助，要么是降低能够成为核弹燃料的铀的浓缩水平，要么是查明使用高浓缩铀的反应堆是否已经关停。最近这届核安全峰会的主要成就是，日本决定销毁数百磅高浓缩铀和高浓缩钚。有些储藏场所曾经围墙有很多裂口，就算有人偷运钚，也没有探测器能发出警报。如今，它们的核材料都被储存在钢制设备中，还配有摄像头和探测器；工人需要有身份识别卡及密码才能通过森严的安全门。
For two decades, one of every 10 light bulbs in America has been powered by uranium from dismantled Russian nuclear bombs. And the number of countries with a kilogram or more of highly enriched uranium has been halved.
在过去20年间，美国十分之一的照明电力由俄罗斯核弹中拆除的铀供应。拥有至少1千克高浓缩铀的国家的数量也已经减少了一半。
Despite these successes, the nuclear terrorism threat remains urgent. Weapons-usable material was seized from criminals in 2003, 2006, 2010 and 2011, and serious nuclear security breaches occurred in 2007 and 2012. Some officials and politicians say decreased funding shows that the job is proceeding well enough. But just last year, the Obama administration was projecting a need to spend $100 million more than it now seeks.
尽管取得了这些成就，核恐怖主义的威胁依旧紧迫。当局在2003、2006、2010及2011年从犯罪分子手中缴获了武器级核材料，2007年及2012年则出现了严重的核安全漏洞。一些官员及政党人士表示，减少经费说明这项工作进展得很好。但就在去年，奥巴马政府还预测，所需支出比现在提出的预算多1亿美元。