WASHINGTON — The House on Tuesday passed a bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security for the rest of the fiscal year, averting a partial shutdown of the agency after weeks of uncertainty, but inflaming conservative lawmakers.
华盛顿——本周二，众议院通过了一项法案，将在本财年剩下的月份里为美国国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)拨款，从而在经历了数周的不确定性之后，避免了该机构部分停摆的结果，但此举却激怒了保守派议员。
The legislation passed, 257-167, with only 75 Republican votes, and it now heads to President Barack Obama's desk, where he is expected to sign it.
该法案以257票赞成，167票反对获得通过，只有75名共和党人参加了投票。现在该法案正被送交奥巴马总统，等待签署。
In the vote Tuesday — an abrupt reversal of position by House Republicans — what started as an uprising by conservative lawmakers ended largely in a resigned whimper, with Speaker John A. Boehner pushing through a “clean” spending bill over the objections of his more hard-line members, who had hoped to use the measure to fight what they say are Obama's unconstitutional executive actions on immigration.
在本周二的投票中，众议院共和党人的立场大幅逆转——本来是保守派议员发起的一场逆袭，却以无奈的失败告终。众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)不顾立场更加强硬的成员的反对，推进了一个专项开支法案。他们曾希望利用此举来打击奥巴马在移民问题上的行政措施，因为他们认为那是违宪之举。
“How did we end up with kind of a slow demise, even after a very hefty kind of rhetoric?” said Rep. John Fleming, R-La. “Well apparently that's the way it's done around here. I don't agree with it.”
“即便在提出了非常有力的理由之后，我们最后还是慢慢滑向了失败，怎么会这样？”路易斯安那州共和党众议员约翰·弗莱明(John Fleming)说。“在这里，事情似乎就是这样的。我不满意这种状况。”
Boehner's decision, surprising in its timing, reduced the potential for the political fallout that Republicans would most likely have faced if the department's operations were halted in a way that harmed public safety.
博纳做出这个决定的时机令人惊讶，但如果国土安全部停转损害了公众安全，这个决定就等于缓和了共和党很可能会面临的糟糕政治后果。
In a closed meeting of Republicans, Boehner told members that he was “as outraged and frustrated as you at the lawless and unconstitutional actions of this president,” according to one person who was in the room, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Boehner added that he thought the decision was “the right one for this team, and the right one for this country.”
在共和党的闭门会议上，博纳告诉大家，他“对于总统无法无天的违宪行为，感到同样愤怒和失望”，一名不愿具名的与会者透露。博纳说，他认为这个决定“对于团队，对于国家来说是正确的”。
Boehner's turnabout came after his leadership team suffered a humiliating setback Friday, narrowly averting a partial shutdown of the department after his more conservative members revolted against a Republican plan to pass a three-week funding measure.
在上周五的事情之后，博纳的立场发生了转变。当时由于更加保守的成员反对共和党提出的一项将国土安全部拨款延长三个星期的方案，博纳领导的团队遭受了一次尴尬的挫败，勉强才避免了该部门部分停摆。
The House leadership had hoped that the short-term measure would provide it with more time to pressure the Senate to take up a bill that passed the House in January. That measure would have funded the agency but would also have gutted the legal protections that Obama provided through executive actions to as many as 5 million undocumented immigrants, including children.
众议院领导层曾经希望，这个短期方案将为他们提供更多时间，来迫使参议院考虑众议院今年1月通过的一项法案。该法案将为该机构提供拨款，但也会使奥巴马基本上无法再通过行政措施，为包括儿童在内的500万非法移民提供法律保护。