WASHINGTON — President Obama’s top military adviser said Tuesday that he would recommend deploying United States forces in ground operations against Islamic extremists in Iraq if airstrikes prove insufficient, opening the door to a riskier, more expansive American combat role than the president has publicly outlined.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统的最高军事顾问在周二表示，如果空袭的作用不够，他会建议美国部署部队，开展地面行动打击伊拉克的伊斯兰极端分子，相对于奥巴马之前公开阐述的计划，此举意味着让美国担负更危险、更广泛的作战职责。
Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that while he was confident that an American-led coalition would defeat the Islamic State, he would not foreclose the possibility of asking Mr. Obama to send American troops to fight the militants on the ground — something Mr. Obama has ruled out.
美国参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)告诉参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)，他相信以美国为首的联盟将会打败伊斯兰国(Islamic State)，他不排除请求奥巴马派美国部队打击武装分子的可能性，而奥巴马之前已经排除这种可能。
“My view at this point is that this coalition is the appropriate way forward. I believe that will prove true,” General Dempsey said. “But if it fails to be true, and if there are threats to the United States, then I, of course, would go back to the president and make a recommendation that may include the use of U.S. military ground forces.”
“在目前阶段，我觉得联盟是合适的前进之路。我相信结果会证明这是正确的，”邓普西上将说。“但如果无法证明是正确的，如果美国面临威胁，我当然会向奥巴马总统提出可能包括部署美国地面部队在内的建议。”
General Dempsey acknowledged that this would run counter to the president’s policy, but he said, “He has told me as well to come back to him on a case-by-case basis.”
邓普西上将承认，这与总统的政策背道而驰，但他表示，“他曾让我根据具体情况，为他提建议。”
The general’s statement lays bare the challenge the president will face in selling an expanded military campaign to a war-weary American public. Mr. Obama, seeking to allay fears of another Iraq war, has promised that American ground troops will not be involved in fighting the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. In a sign of the administration’s mixed message, the president pointedly did not call it a war, while his advisers later did.
邓普西上将的声明表露了奥巴马面临的挑战，他需要向厌战的美国民众宣传扩大军事行动规模的必要性。奥巴马力图消除人们对另一场伊拉克战争的顾虑，承诺美国地面部队不会参与打击伊斯兰国（也被称为ISIS或ISIL）的行动。奥巴马显然没有将此称为战争，而他的顾问后来称其为战争，这说明政府在该问题上存在矛盾说法。
But the realities of a prolonged campaign, General Dempsey said, could make such a hands-off approach untenable, particularly if the battle against the militants moves into densely populated cities where airstrikes are less effective and the chances of civilian casualties are much higher. His candid testimony, hours before a divided House of Representatives began debating whether or not to approve Mr. Obama’s request for authority to arm the Syrian rebels, drew expressions of concern from antiwar groups and could further complicate the political dynamic for the president.
但邓普西上将表示，如果战事被拖长，可能会使不干预政策站不住脚，特别是在对抗武装分子的战斗进入人口密集城市的情况下，在这些城市中，空袭效果欠佳，平民伤亡的风险要高得多。存在分歧的众议院(House of Representatives)准备开始讨论是否批准奥巴马的请求，授权为叙利亚叛乱分子提供武器，而在数小时之前，邓普西上将坦率的声明致使反战组织表达担忧，可能会使奥巴马的政治态势进一步恶化。
The White House insisted on Tuesday that Mr. Obama was not shifting his policy and that General Dempsey was not out of sync with his commander in chief.
周二，白宫坚称，奥巴马不会改变政策，邓普西上将的态度和三军统帅是一致的。
“It’s the responsibility of the president’s military advisers to plan and consider all the wide range of contingencies,” the White House press secretary, Josh Earnest, said to reporters. “It’s also the responsibility of the commander in chief to set out a clear policy.”
“总统的军事顾问负责设想、考虑各种意外情况的发生，” 白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)对记者表示。“而三军统帅又要负责制定出一个明确的政策”
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama is scheduled to get a briefing from his military commanders at the Pentagon’s Central Command headquarters in Tampa, Fla. The rare visit is described by White House officials as part of his effort to mobilize public support for the mission. But it is also calculated to soothe tensions with the military over who is in charge of the operation after Mr. Obama named retired Gen. John R. Allen, to be his special envoy to the coalition of countries fighting the Islamic State. General Allen will be based at the State Department.
奥巴马定于周三抵达佛罗里达州坦帕市五角大楼中央司令部总部，听取军事指挥官的汇报。白宫官员称，奥巴马这趟罕见的行程是为了给这次行动争取公众支持。不过，在奥巴马任命已退休的约翰·R·艾伦上将(John R. Allen)为打击伊斯兰国的国家联盟特使之后，此举也是为了缓和与军方在行动控制权归属问题上的紧张关系。艾伦上将将在国务院开展工作。
Already, Mr. Obama’s policy has been tested by his commanders. General Dempsey said Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, who oversees the Central Command, had recommended putting Special Operations troops on the ground to direct airstrikes during a recent campaign by Iraqi and Kurdish forces to retake the Mosul Dam from the extremist militants.
指挥官们已经在考验奥巴马的政策。邓普西上将称，在近期伊拉克和库尔德部队从极端分子手中夺回摩苏尔大坝的行动中，中央司令部司令劳埃德·奥斯汀三世(Lloyd Austin III)曾建议，派遣特种作战部队(Special Operations)在地面引导空袭。
Mr. Obama rejected that recommendation, and General Dempsey said the United States used technology — a drone known as a Rover — to compensate for not having its own advisers on the ground. The American advisers remained in the Kurdish capital of Erbil.
奥巴马拒绝了这一建议，邓普西说，美国利用技术——一种叫作Rover的无人机——弥补了在地面没有派遣本国顾问的不足。美国的顾问仍然待在库尔德族自治区的首府埃尔比勒。
The challenge will come, General Dempsey said, when Iraqi and Kurdish forces try to drive the militants out of densely-populated urban areas like Mosul. In those cases, General Dempsey said, he might recommend deploying Special Operations troops to provide what he called “close combat advising,” essentially working alongside Iraqi commanders in the field and helping them direct their troops to targets.
邓普西上将称，当伊拉克和库尔德部队试图赶走摩苏尔等人口密集地区的极端分子时，就会面临挑战。他说，在这种情况下，他可能会建议部署特种作战部队，提供“密切的作战指导”，主要是在战场上与伊拉克指挥官合作，帮助他们指导部队击中目标。
While the Americans would not fire weapons themselves, military experts said there was little practical distinction between the role General Dempsey described at the hearing and actual combat.
尽管美国人不会亲自开火，军事专家认为邓普西上将在听证会上所描述的角色与真正的作战几乎没有实质区别。
“We’ve already got ground forces introduced and they are performing combat missions,” Paul D. Eaton, a retired Army general who helped train the Iraqi security forces and is now a senior adviser to the National Security Network, said on Tuesday. “I applaud the general for his candor. That will help the president and the debate greatly “
“我们已经引入地面部队，他们正在执行作战任务，”退役陆军上将保罗·D·伊顿(Paul D. Eaton)周二称。伊顿曾经参与训练伊拉克安全部队，目前是国家安全网络(National Security Network)的高级顾问。“我对他的坦率表示赞赏。这将为总统和相关讨论带来很大益处。”
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel testified along with General Dempsey, but their appearance appeared to do little to dispel concerns on Capitol Hill. They said the campaign would include the training and equipping of 5,000 Syrian fighters, the involvement of more than 40 coalition nations, including 30 that have pledged military support.
国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)与邓普西上将一同发表了证词，但这并没有打消国会的疑虑。他们说，行动将包括对5000名叙利亚士兵进行培训并向其提供装备，超过40个联盟国家将参与进来，其中30个国家已经承诺提供军事支持。
Members of the committee sounded far from convinced that the plan would succeed. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said he doubted that 5,000 Syrian fighters, who could not be trained for months, would be able to fight off more than 30,000 Islamic State combatants. “To many of us that seems like an inadequate response,” he said.
委员会成员似乎根本不相信计划会成功。亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)称，他不相信5000名叙利亚士兵能够打败逾3000名伊斯兰国的武装分子。这些士兵不可能接受好几个月的训练。“在我们许多人看来，这不足以应对武装分子的袭击，”他说。