The yearly bloom of cherry blossoms in Washington, one of the grandest and most colorful of the capital’s annual traditions, is also one of its most fragile and weather-dependent.
华盛顿一年一度樱花盛放的时间，是这个首都最宏大、最多彩的年度传统之一，同时也是它最脆弱、最依赖天气的一项传统。
A balmy February lured the blooms from their buds earlier than usual, and a sudden cold snap is threatening to kill most of them off for the year, officials here say.
这里的官员表示，温暖的2月令这些花蕾吐露芬芳的时间早于往年，但突如其来的寒流可能会让它们大部分香消玉殒，无缘得见。
“We had this real mild winter to bring the blossoms out early,” Mike Litterst, a spokesman with the National Park Service, said in an interview. “Then when they were at their most vulnerable, here comes Old Man Winter to crash the party.”
“经历了一个十分和煦的冬天，今年花开得比较早，”美国国家公园管理局(National Park Service)发言人迈克·利特斯特(Mike Litterst)在接受采访时说。“接着在它们最脆弱的时候，冬老头冲了过来，毁掉了这场派对。”
Tuesday was supposed to be the beginning of the peak blooming period for the cherry blossoms in Washington. Instead, the capital was covered in snow and sleet as a nor’easter moved up the East Coast.
周二本该是华盛顿樱花绽放的高峰时期开始的时候。但这座城市却因为一阵东北风暴向东海岸移动而被雨雪覆盖。
The winter storm is to be followed by cold weather the next three nights, with temperatures expected to dip below 24 degrees Fahrenheit. The cold could kill off 90 percent of the tender blossoms, Mr. Litterst said.
这场冬季风暴过后，将是连着三晚的寒冷天气，气温有可能低至24华氏度（零下4.4摄氏度）以下。利特斯特表示，这股冷空气有可能毁掉90%的娇嫩花苞。
Over the past few days, officials have been watching the blossoms and the forecast closely, sharing updates on Twitter. On Tuesday, other observers began sharing photos of the blossoms encased in ice.
在过去几天里，官员们一直在密切关注着这些花苞和天气预报的情况，并在Twitter上不断发布最新信息。周二，其他观察人士开始传播花朵被冰雪包裹的照片。
The trees, some of which were first delivered to the capital in 1912, are the centerpiece of a weekslong festival in the capital that was projected to attract over a million tourists from around the world this year. The festival has been in danger before: a government shutdown threatened to cancel its parade in 2011.
这些树——有些最早是在1912年被移至这里——是首都一个持续整周的节庆活动的主要看点。这场活动曾被预计会于今年在全世界吸引100万游客。它以往也曾遭遇过危机：2011年游街活动一度有可能因政府停摆而被取消。
But this is the first time that officials at the National Park Service have grappled with such a weather whiplash. The initial projected bloom date, March 14, would have been the earliest on record. But now the blooms face missing their new bloom date — delayed to March 19 — for the first time since officials started keeping those records in 1921.
但这是国家公园管理局的官员首次应对这样一场天气狙击。原先预计的开花时间——3月14日——将是史上最早的一次。但现在这些花苞将错过新的绽放时间——推迟至3月19日——自官员们从1921年开始记录这个时间以来还是第一次。
“We’re in unprecedented territory,” Mr. Litterst said. “The next 48 hours are going to be crucial.”
“我处在前所未有的境况里，”利特斯特说。“接下来的48个小时将至关重要。”
He would not address whether climate change had influenced this year’s problems, but he noted that average temperatures have been rising in Washington overall, and the average peak bloom date, April 4, is five days earlier than it was when the trees were first planted.
他不愿谈论是否是气候变化导致了今年这种令人困惑的现象，但他指出华盛顿的平均气温总体上一直在上升，如今花开正盛的通常时间——4月4日——比这些树最初栽种过来时早5天。
“The earlier cherry blossom blooming is consistent with the rising temperatures in the city,” he said.
“樱花花期提前的情况与这个城市逐渐上升的气温是一致的，”他说。