GENEVA — Secretary of State John Kerry set an early test for Syria’s top leader on Thursday by insisting on quick disclosure of data on that country’s arsenal of chemical weapons.
日内瓦——周四，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)提早为叙利亚最高领导人定下了一次考验，坚持要求对方尽快公布叙利亚化学武器库的相关数据。
Mr. Kerry’s demand came as he began talks with Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, on a plan to secure and dispose of Syria’s poison gas.
提出这一要求时，克里刚刚开始同俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)就一项获取并处置叙利亚毒气武器的计划进行谈判。
Earlier on Thursday, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria announced publicly that his country had formally applied to join the chemical weapons treaty. According to the treaty’s terms, Syria would be required to submit a declaration detailing the types, quantities and locations of all its chemical weapons and the locations of all facilities for producing them within 60 days of formally joining the accord.
周四早些时候，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)公开宣布，他领导的国家已正式申请加入化学武器公约。根据这一公约的条款，叙利亚必须在正式加入条约的60天之内提交一份申报文件，详细说明所有化学武器的型号、数量及所在位置，以及所有化学武器生产设施的所在地点。
But Mr. Kerry said that the normal procedures were far too slow because Mr. Assad’s government had used chemical weapons against its own people.
但克里称，常规程序太过缓慢，因为阿萨德领导的政府已经对自己的民众使用了化学武器。
“There is nothing standard about this process because of the way the regime has behaved,” Mr. Kerry said. “The words of the Syrian regime in our judgment are simply not enough.”
“因为这个政权的行事方式，这个程序不能再照常规进行，”克里说，“在我们看来，光有叙利亚政权的声明还不够。”
A spokeswoman for Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, made a similar point in a statement.
美国常驻联合国代表萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)的女发言人在一份声明中表达了类似的观点。
“Syria needs to take immediate actions to disclose, surrender and eliminate its chemical weapons stockpile under international monitoring and verification,” said the spokeswoman, Erin Pelton. “Statements without action are wholly insufficient for a country that has had a secret, enormous chemical weapons program for decades.”
“叙利亚必须立即采取行动，公布、交出并销毁自己的化学武器储备，接受国际社会的监督和核查，”名为艾琳·裴尔顿(Erin Pelton)的这位女发言人说，“对一个几十年来一直拥有规模巨大的秘密化学武器计划的国家而言，只发表声明而不行动是完全不够的。”
With a tableau of American and Russian flags behind them, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov stood side by side in a public show of joint purpose. But differences quickly re-emerged as Mr. Lavrov emphasized that the “solution of this problem will remove any need for a strike.”
克里和拉夫罗夫并肩站立，身后是美国和俄罗斯两国的旗子，以此公开展示，双方目标一致。然而，分歧迅速重现，因为拉夫罗夫强调，“这个问题的解决方案排除了实施打击的任何必要”。
Mr. Kerry emphasized that “only the credible threat of force” had prompted Mr. Assad to acknowledge that his nation possessed chemical weapons in the first place, and that a military option was needed to ensure that Mr. Assad fulfilled his promises.
克里强调，首先，“正是可信的武力威胁”才迫使阿萨德承认自己的国家拥有化学武器，而且，为了确保阿萨德兑现承诺，军事选择是有必要的。
Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov met at the same Geneva hotel where Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state, presented Mr. Lavrov with a red “reset” button in 2009 to symbolize the Obama administration’s efforts to improve ties with Moscow — an effort largely stymied since Vladimir V. Putin resumed his role as Russia’s president.
克里和拉夫罗夫在日内瓦的一家酒店会面，2009年。时任美国国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)曾在同一家酒店向拉夫罗夫赠送一枚红色的“重启”按钮，为的是象征奥巴马政府改善同俄罗斯关系的努力。然而，自从弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)重回俄罗斯总统之位以来，这一努力基本上遭到了阻断。
American officials say they hope Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov can work out an effective plan, but they are wary of the United States being drawn into prolonged talks that would serve as a tactic to delay, and perhaps prevent, an American-led military strike.
美国官员表示，他们希望克里和拉夫罗夫能制定出一份有效的计划，同时又担心美国会被拖进旷日持久的谈判，担心谈判只是一种策略，为的是拖延甚至阻止美国领导的军事打击。
One test will be the willingness of Russia and Syria to accept “a rapid beginning to international control” that would preclude the Assad government from gaining access to chemical weapons or using them, said a senior State Department official who was traveling on Mr. Kerry’s plane.
一名与克里同机前往的国务院(State Department)高官说，考验之一是俄罗斯和叙利亚是否愿意接受“国际社会迅速开始实施控制”，这可以防止阿萨德政府接触或使用化学武器。
Coming up with a verifiable plan to inspect, control and dispose of Syria’s chemical weapons during a civil war is a daunting task. Though Obama administration officials have said that the problem of Syria’s chemical weapons has been discussed with the Russians for more than a year, the two sides have not yet talked about it in detail.
在内战进行期间，要找到一个可行的计划来检查、控制和处置叙利亚的化学武器是一件非常困难的事情。奥巴马政府官员曾表示，他们已经就叙利亚化学武器的问题与俄罗斯讨论了一年多，尽管如此，双方还未谈到细节问题。
For example, the United States and Russia have yet to compare intelligence on the quantities of Syria’s chemical stocks, their main elements and their locations. American officials have declassified intelligence reports and plan to begin that process here.
例如，关于叙利亚化武储备的数量、主要成分和存放位置，美国和俄罗斯还没有进行情报对比。美国官员已经解除了一些情报的保密状态，打算由此开启情报对比工作。
“What we will be looking at is the chemical weapons stockpiles, the production facilities, precursor chemicals,” the State Department official said. “And to the extent that there are munitions that are used to spread those chemical weapons in whatever manner, that obviously is part of dismantling and destroying the chemical weapons that Assad has.”
 “我们将着眼于化学武器库存、生产设施和易制毒化学品。” 这名国务院官员说，“用于以各种方式传播这些化武的军需品也要调查，显然这也是拆除和销毁阿萨德化学武器的部分工作。 ”
A major concern is how to conduct inspections safely in the middle of a civil war, to make sure that the Assad government is not hiding some of its stockpile.
一项主要的担忧是，如何在内战进行期间安全地进行检查，如何确保阿萨德政府没有隐瞒部分库存。
Gary Samore, the senior aide on nonproliferation issues at the National Security Council during President Obama’s first term, said that the Assad government would be reluctant to give up its entire arsenal because it valued poison gas as a deterrent against Israel and a weapon to attack Syrian rebels.
加里·萨莫尔(Gary Samore)曾在奥巴马总统第一任期担任美国国家安全委员会(National Security Council)防扩散问题方面的高级助手，他说，阿萨德政府不会愿意彻底放弃化学武器，因为他们很重视毒气对以色列的威慑力，以及对叙利亚叛军的攻击力。
“What Assad might make is a partial declaration of the chemical weapons he is willing to put under international control and keep a significant portion in his back pocket,” said Mr. Samore, who is the director of the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at Harvard.
“阿萨德可能会申报他愿意交出的那部分化学武器，让它们处于国际管控之下，同时也会把大量化学武器保留下来，自己藏着掖着。”萨莫尔说。他现在是哈佛大学贝尔福科学与国际事务研究中心(Harvard Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs)的主任。
Mr. Obama’s decision to delay any military action and explore a disarmament plan with the Russians, who have been a main supplier of arms to the Assad government, has distressed much of the Syrian opposition and raised fresh questions about whether the rebels would even take part in a peace conference.
俄罗斯一直是阿萨德政府的主要武器供应商，而奥巴马决定推迟一切军事行动，跟俄罗斯一起商讨裁军计划，这让很多叙利亚反对派感到担忧，并且引发了新的问题，即叛军会不会愿意参与和平会议。
“They’re upset,” a senior State Department official said. “They don’t trust this at all.”
国务院的一位高级官员说：“他们非常失望，根本不信这一套。”
In a recent statement, Gen. Salim Idris, the head of the military wing of the Syrian opposition, rejected the Russian initiative and said the Syrians who carried out the Aug. 21 chemical attack near Damascus that started the current crisis must be punished.
萨利姆·伊德里将军(Gen. Salim Idris)是叙利亚反对派军事分支的领导人，他在最近的一份声明中拒绝了俄罗斯的倡议，声称那些8月21日对大马士革附近地区进行化学攻击，进而导致当前危机的叙利亚人必须受到惩罚。
In an effort to address their fears, Mr. Kerry spoke Thursday with General Idris and Ahmad al-Jarba, the president of the Syrian opposition, and sought to assure them that the military option remained on the table and that the Obama administration would insist that any understanding about Syria’s chemical weapons be verifiable and “enforceable,” a State Department official said.
美国国务院一位官员说，为了打消他们的忧虑，克里本周四跟伊德里将军以及反对派领袖艾哈迈德·贾尔巴(Ahmad al-Jarba)通了话，试图向他们保证：军事选择仍然留在台面上，而奥巴马政府也会坚持要求，对叙利亚化学武器的任何了解都必须可以核实，而且可以“实际履行”。