VIENNA — Secretary of State John Kerry arrived here early Sunday in an attempt to rescue negotiations with Iran that have stalled on the question of how large a nuclear infrastructure that nation will be permitted to have over the next decade or two. But he quickly confronted the fact that the problem might be less at the negotiating table here than with mullahs in Tehran and members of Congress in Washington.
维也纳——美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周日早间来到这里，尝试挽救与伊朗之间的谈判僵局。谈判的主要障碍在于，伊朗未来10到20年间，可以维持多大规模的核设施。然而克里很快就遭遇了一个现实问题：关键或许并不在于这里的谈判桌，而是在于德黑兰的神职人员和华盛顿的国会议员。
During 11 days of intensive negotiations in a palace just steps from where Beethoven and Mozart once lived and worked, a team of sophisticated, westernized negotiators from Iran’s government have given a bit of ground on how some of the country’s facilities will be used and how others will be inspected, according to officials who have been in the rooms where the wording was being discussed.
在一所宫殿里开展的紧张谈判已经持续了11天，这里距离贝多芬和莫扎特曾经居住和工作的地方只有咫尺之遥。讨论文件措辞时在场的官员透露，会议期间，伊朗政府派出的精明、西化的谈判代表们，对于伊朗的一些核设施应该如何使用，应该对另一些核设施如何开展检查做出了一点让步。
But the Iranians appeared taken a bit by surprise when their supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, gave a speech in Tehran last week that went into extraordinary detail about how much nuclear enrichment capacity Iran would need — statements that seemed to circumscribe their ability to come up with face-saving ways to dismantle a good portion of Iran’s facilities while still portraying their program as moving forward.
然而伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)上周在德黑兰发表讲话时，伊朗谈判代表却表现出了些许惊讶。哈梅内伊在讲话中以超乎寻常的细节阐述了伊朗需要多少核燃料浓缩能力，这番声明似乎让谈判代表难以找到一种方法，能做到体面地关停该国大部分核设施，同时又宣告本国的核计划正在前进。
The Americans face their own constraints at home: A letter from key members of the Senate to President Obama describes what a deal to prevent Iran from producing a weapon should look like, and suggests that anything short of that would not lead to the lifting of sanctions, the only incentive the American team can dangle in front of the Iranians.
美国谈判代表也面临着国内的掣肘。参议院一些关键人物向奥巴马总统提交了一封信，阐述了阻止伊朗制造核武器的协议应该是怎样的。信中提到，只要达不到信中的要求，就不能解除制裁。而美国谈判团队能亮给伊朗的交换条件只有这一个。
It was a reminder for Mr. Kerry that there is not one negotiation underway to strike this deal, but three. Mr. Kerry and his counterparts from five other nations are struggling to reach an accommodation with Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s American-educated foreign minister, who has been camped out for the past 11 days in the Coburg Palace, which has become a luxury dormitory for the American, Western European, Russian and Chinese negotiators who are living and working just doors away from one another.
这种局面提醒克里，要想达成协议，需要开展的谈判不仅有这一场，而是有三场。克里及其他五个国家的外交负责人，一直在艰难地尝试与曾在美国受过教育的伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)达成谅解。过去11天里，他们一直驻扎在维也纳的科堡宫(Coburg Palace)里。这里已经成了美国、西欧国家、俄罗斯和中国谈判代表的豪华宿舍。各国谈判代表居住和生活的地方只隔着几扇门。
But Mr. Zarif has a parallel negotiation underway with Ayatollah Khamenei and the generals of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, which runs the military side of the nuclear program and barely trusts its foreign minister. Mr. Obama, meanwhile, has been in a constant behind-the-scenes struggle with members of Congress who argue for more sanctions and more pressure. Mr. Obama has threatened to veto such efforts for fear they will undermine chances for a deal that he believes would be a more lasting solution than permanent sanctions or military action against Iran’s nuclear sites.
然而与此同时，扎里夫还在与阿亚图拉哈梅内伊，以及伊斯兰革命卫队(Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps)的将领们进行谈判。伊朗核计划中的军方项目由革命卫队主管，而革命卫队对外交部长鲜少信任。与此同时，奥巴马也一直在幕后与主张采取更多制裁、施加更大压力的国会议员们角力。奥巴马曾威胁会否决这样的议案，因为他担心加大施压力度的议案，会破坏达成协议的可能性。与持续施加压力，甚至对伊朗核设施采取军事行动相比，他认为取得共识是更持久的解决方案。
“It may be the most complex negotiation I’ve ever seen,” said an American official who has been advising the White House, declining to speak on the record about sensitive negotiations. “Everyone is using the constraints they face back home as a reason to avoid compromise. And the fact of the matter is that there are many generals in Iran and many members of Congress in Washington who would like to see this whole effort collapse.”
“这可能是我见过的最复杂的谈判，”为白宫充当顾问的一位美国官员评价称。“所有人都在以国内受到制约为理由，避免做出妥协。而且实际上，在伊朗有很多将领，在华盛顿也有很多国会议员都很乐意看到谈判无果而终。”因为在讨论敏感的谈判，这位官员拒绝公布姓名。
Mr. Kerry said he was evaluating the process to determine whether to recommend to Mr. Obama that the talks be extended beyond the July 20 deadline.
克里表示，他正在评估谈判进程，从而确定是否建议奥巴马要不要在原定期限7月20日的基础上，再延长谈判。
“Obviously, we have some very significant gaps still,” he said. “It is vital to make certain that Iran is not going to develop a nuclear weapon, that their program is peaceful.” Though Mr. Kerry is not talking about extending the talks — which is permitted under an interim agreement reached in November — that now seems inevitable.
“很显然，我们还有些十分显著的分歧，”他说。“很关键的一点是，要确保伊朗不会研发核武器，而且该国的核计划是和平的。”尽管克里并未谈及延长谈判，但现在看来这似乎是不可避免的——去年11月达成的一项临时协议允许延长谈判期限。
“We are trying to find solutions to narrow the difference,” Iran’s deputy foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, said to a state-run Iranian news service in an interview here. “Given this context, it’s possible that negotiations will be extended by a few days or weeks.”
“我们正在想方设法减轻分歧，”伊朗副外长阿巴斯·阿拉格齐(Abbas Araghchi)在维也纳接受采访时，对伊朗国有新闻机构表示。“鉴于当前的环境，谈判有可能延长数天或数周。”