WASHINGTON — A week ago, President Trump was accused of being a tool for the Russians, an unwitting agent of influence, so full of admiration that he defended President Vladimir V. Putin against critics who called him a killer.
华盛顿——一周之前，特朗普总统还被人指责为俄罗斯的工具，是不自知的俄罗斯影响力代理人，而且还维护被批评者称为杀人犯的普京，对其充满了钦佩之情。
Now, Mr. Trump is in a diplomatic clash with Mr. Putin’s Russia, his administration accusing Moscow of trying to cover up a Syrian chemical weapons attack on civilians and his secretary of state delivering us-or-them ultimatums.
现在，特朗普与普京治下的俄罗斯处在了外交冲突之中，特朗普政府指责莫斯科试图掩盖叙利亚对平民的化武袭击，他的国务卿下达了“选我们还是选他们”的最后通牒。
Even in a presidency marked by unpredictability, the head-spinning shift from coziness to confrontation has left Washington and other capitals with a case of geopolitical whiplash. The prospects of improving Russian-American relations were already slim given the atmosphere of suspicion stemming from Kremlin meddling in last year’s election, but the détente once envisioned by Mr. Trump has instead deteriorated into the latest cold war.
即便是在一个以不可预测为特征的总统任期内，从温馨关系到对抗的转折也陡然得令人头晕，这已经令华盛顿和其他国家的政府遭受到了地缘政治的无情打击。虽然克里姆林宫干预去年美国大选引发的怀疑气氛已经令改善俄美关系的前景变得黯淡，但特朗普曾经设想过的关系缓和竟然恶化成了最新的冷战。
For Mr. Trump’s camp, the abrupt turnaround simply proved how false the conspiracy narrative was from the start. “If there was anything that Syria did, it was to validate the fact that there is no Russia tie,” said Eric Trump, the president’s son.
对于特朗普阵营来说，这种突然转向只是证明了阴谋论说法从一开始就是非常错误的。总统的儿子埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)说，“如果叙利亚这事儿起到了什么作用，那就是证明了我们的竞选班底和俄罗斯没有关系。”
For some critics, it seemed to be a cynical way of distracting attention from the multiple investigations into possible contacts between associates of Mr. Trump and Russia even as Moscow was trying to help Mr. Trump win the presidency.
在一些批评者看来，这似乎也是一种让人起疑的方式，用来分散人们对特朗普的助手和俄罗斯之间可能存在联系的多个调查的关注，当时莫斯科试图帮助特朗普赢得总统位置。
Either way, it suggested that the relationship between the two powers could be volatile in the months to come, subject to the impulsive reactions of a president with no prior experience in foreign policy, the often strident responses of a Russian leader given to his own moments of pique and the clashing national interests of both countries in key areas around the world.
无论如何，这表明两国之间的关系在未来几个月可能会出现波动，特朗普在外交政策上没有任何经验，行事冲动，而普京出于怒火，也出于两国在全球重点地区的国家利益冲突，常常做出尖锐的回应。
“I was skeptical from the beginning that it would be possible for the United States and Russia, after all that happened in the last few years, to engage in a successful reset,” said Angela Stent, a former national intelligence officer on Russia now at Georgetown University. “What’s surprising is how quickly we returned to the status quo ante we had at the end of the Obama administration.”
目前在乔治城大学工作、专注俄罗斯问题的前美国情报人员安吉拉·斯坦特(Angela Stent)表示：“从一开始，我就怀疑，经历了过去几年的事情之后，美国和俄罗斯之间的关系是否真地能够重置。令人惊讶的是，我们竟然这么快就回到了奥巴马政府末期的状态。”
John R. Beyrle, a former ambassador to Moscow, said the extremes of the relationship were being exaggerated and it would probably settle back into the middle. “Levels of trust have deteriorated so much that these initial meetings will produce little in the way of agreements and the investigations into likely Russian interference in the election cast a huge shadow that both sides need to acknowledge,” he said.
前美国驻莫斯科大使约翰·贝尔勒(John R. Beyrle)说，这种关系极端化情况遭到人为夸大，它可能会恢复到中间状态。他表示：“信任水平已经大大恶化，最初的一些会面几乎不会达成协议，调查俄罗斯可能干预美国总统选举的事情可能会投下巨大阴影，这一点双方都需要认识到。”
Mr. Trump is the fourth president in a row who came into office determined to reboot the relationship with Moscow, an ambition that often eluded the other three. The difference is that the hacking of Democratic email during last year’s election, for which intelligence agencies blamed Russia, made Mr. Trump’s embrace of Mr. Putin politically problematic.
特朗普是连续第四任在上任时决心重新启动与莫斯科关系的总统，这个抱负让其他三位知难而退。所不同的是，由于情报机构把去年选举中民主党邮件被黑事件归咎于俄罗斯，因此特朗普拥抱普京会引发政治问题。
His willingness to overlook Russia’s annexation of Crimea, its armed intervention in eastern Ukraine and, until now, its support for President Bashar al-Assad’s government in Syria mystified many experts. He called Mr. Putin “a stronger leader” than President Barack Obama, praised him for “doing a great job” and expressed hope that he would be “my new best friend.” Michael Morell, a former acting C.I.A. director, wrote last fall that Mr. Trump seemed to be an “unwitting agent of influence” for Moscow.
特朗普愿意无视俄罗斯吞并克里米亚、对乌克兰东部的武装干涉，以及直到现在其对叙利亚阿萨德政府的支持，这让很多专家感到困惑不解。特朗普说普京是比奥巴马总统“更有力”的领导人，并称赞他“做得很好”，表示希望他能成为“我最好的朋友”。前CIA代理局长迈克尔·莫雷尔(Michael Morell)去年秋天写道，特朗普似乎是莫斯科影响力“不自知的代理人”。
By Tuesday, after Mr. Trump ordered a missile strike against Syria in retaliation for using chemical weapons on its own people, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson arrived in Moscow with a harsh warning that Russia had better give up its support of Mr. Assad. He was greeted with a cold shoulder, denied a meeting with Mr. Putin as no secretary of state has been on a first visit to Moscow going back to the days of Cordell Hull in World War II. Back in Washington, the White House held a briefing accusing Russia of shielding Syria’s chemical weapons attack on civilians.
周二，在特朗普下令对叙利亚进行导弹袭击以报复他们对人民使用化学武器后，国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)带着俄罗斯最好放弃支持阿萨德的强烈警告抵达莫斯科。结果他受到冷遇，想与普京会晤遭拒，自第二次世界大战科德尔·赫尔(Cordell Hull)时期以来，还没有哪个国务卿第一次访问莫斯科遭到这种对待。而在华盛顿，白宫在吹风会上指责俄方袒护叙利亚对平民实施化学武器袭击。
The Russians have responded with harsh language of their own. On Tuesday, Mr. Putin compared Mr. Trump’s action in Syria to President George W. Bush’s invasion of Iraq in 2003. And Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev suggested that Mr. Trump has turned out not to be what he presented himself to be during last year’s campaign.
俄罗斯人用尖锐的言辞做出了回应。普京周二将特朗普在叙利亚的行动与2003年小布什入侵伊拉克相提并论。总理梅德韦杰夫则表示，特朗普不是他在去年竞选期间表现出来的那种人。
“That’s it,” he wrote on Facebook last week. “The last remaining election fog has lifted.” In the end, he said, Mr. Trump was “broken by the existing power machine” in Washington.
“就是这样，”他上周在Facebook上写道。“剩下的最后一个选举迷雾已经揭开了。”最后他说，特朗普“被华盛顿现有的权力机制打败了”。
Mr. Morell said on Tuesday that despite calling Mr. Trump a virtual Russian agent, he always believed Russian behavior would lead to a parting of the ways. “This seems to be happening now,” he said. But he noted that Mr. Trump has left it to Mr. Tillerson and others rather than speaking out himself.
莫雷尔周二称，尽管自己称特朗普是俄罗斯事实上的代理人，但他一直相信，俄罗斯的行为会导致双方分道扬镳。“现在这一幕似乎正在上演，”他说。但他指出，特朗普把事情丢给了蒂勒森和其他人，而不是亲自发声。
“He needs to do that, and he needs to be critical of the large number of other aggressive actions that Putin has undertaken over the past two years,” Mr. Morell said.
“他需要这么做，需要对普京在过去两年里采取的大量其他咄咄逼人的行动持批评态度，”莫雷尔说。
Aides to Mr. Trump have been frustrated at the focus on the Russia investigations and the assumptions that the president’s associates did something wrong even though several officials have said no evidence has emerged that proves collusion with Russia. They blame the media for creating a false narrative that they see as now disproved. How, they ask, could Mr. Trump’s team have made secret deals with Russia if his own secretary of state cannot even get a meeting?
特朗普的幕僚对于把焦点放在涉及俄罗斯的调查上，以及尽管几名官员已表示没有证据证明与俄罗斯共谋，但仍有人认为总统的亲信做错了事感到不满。他们指责媒体制造了一种他们认为现在已经证明是虚假的错误叙事。他们质疑，如果国务卿都见不到普京，特朗普的团队如何能同俄罗斯达成秘密交易？
“It’s interesting that we went from all of these direct links to Russia to now are we disappointed that we can’t even get a meeting with him,” Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary. “There is a bit of irony in the question.”
“有意思的是，从一开始是所有这些与俄罗斯的直接联系，到现在是失望地得知我们甚至连他的面都见不着，”白宫发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)说。“这个问题有点讽刺。”
The back-and-forth over Russia left lawmakers trying to make sense of it.
围绕俄罗斯问题的反复促使国会议员试图把事情弄清楚。
“It speaks to the broader incoherence of this administration’s foreign policy,” said Senator Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut. “The change in rhetoric on Russia is head-spinning. I’m glad to see it and I hope it continues, but so far the only thing we know about this administration’s foreign policy is that it will probably change in a week or two.”
“它证明了本届政府的外交政策整体上不连贯，”康涅狄格州民主党参议员克里斯·墨菲(Chris Murphy)说。“有关俄罗斯的言辞发生的变化令人晕头转向。看到这里我很高兴，我希望它能继续下去，但迄今为止，关于本届政府的外交政策，我们只知道它可能会在一两周后发生变化。”