We find ourselves in an increasingly risky strategic environment. The Ukrainian crisis has threatened the stability of relations between Russia and the West, including the nuclear dimension — as became apparent last month when it was reported that Russian defense officials had advised President Vladimir V. Putin to consider placing Russia’s nuclear arsenal on alert during last year’s crisis in Crimea.
我们发现自己所处的战略环境越来越危险。乌克兰危机已经威胁到了俄罗斯与西方关系的稳定，包括在核武器层面。上月有报道称，去年的克里米亚危机期间，俄罗斯的国防官员曾建议总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)考虑让俄罗斯的核武库处于警戒状态，尤其能说明危险的存在。
Diplomatic efforts have done little to ease the new nuclear tension. This makes it all the more critical for Russia and the United States to talk, to relieve the pressures to “use or lose” nuclear forces during a crisis and minimize the risk of a mistaken launch.
外交行动几乎未对这种新的核紧张局势起到任何缓解作用。这使俄罗斯和美国进行谈判，以缓解在危机期间“要么使用，要么失去”核力量的压力，并将错误发射的风险降到最低，变得更加关键。
The fact is that we are still living with the nuclear-strike doctrine of the Cold War, which dictated three strategic options: first strike, launch on warning and post-attack retaliation. There is no reason to believe that Russia and the United States have discarded these options, as long as the architecture of “mutually assured destruction” remains intact.
事实是，我们依然信奉冷战时期的核打击原则。这一原则规定了三个战略选择：先发制人、收到预警后发射和遇袭后报复。只要“共同毁灭原则”(mutually assured destruction)的架构完好无损，就没理由认为俄罗斯和美国已经放弃了这些选择。
For either side, the decision to launch on warning — in an attempt to fire one’s nuclear missiles before they are destroyed — would be made on the basis of information from early-warning satellites and ground radar. Given the 15- to 30-minute flight times of strategic missiles, a decision to launch after an alert of an apparent attack must be made in minutes.
对任何一方来说，收到预警后发射的决定，都是基于来自早期预警卫星和地面雷达的信息。考虑到战略导弹的飞行时间为15到30分钟，在收到可能会遭到攻击的警报后，必须在几分钟内做出发射决定。
This is therefore the riskiest scenario, since provocations or malfunctions can trigger a global catastrophe. Since computer-based information systems have been in place, the likelihood of such errors has been minimized. But the emergence of cyberwarfare threats has increased the potential for false alerts in early-warning systems. The possibility of an error cannot be ruled out.
因而这是最危险的情形，因为挑衅或故障可能会引发一场全球性的大灾难。鉴于已经建立起了以计算机为基础的信息系统，出现这种错误的可能性已经被降到了最低。但网络战威胁的出现，增加了早期预警系统假报警的可能。这种出错的可能性无法根除。
American officials have usually played down the launch-on-warning option. They have argued instead for the advantages of post-attack retaliation, which would allow more time to analyze the situation and make an intelligent decision. Neither the Soviet Union nor Russia ever stated explicitly that it would pursue a similar strategy, but an emphasis on mobile missile launchers and strategic submarines continues to imply a similar reliance on an ability to absorb an attack and carry out retaliatory strikes.
美国官员通常会淡化收到预警后发射的选择，转而强调遇袭后报复的优势。这一战略有更多时间分析情况，做出明智的决定。苏联和俄罗斯均未明确表示会采取类似的战略，但对移动导弹发射器和战略潜艇的重视，依然暗示着双方同样重视承受一次攻击并展开报复性打击的能力。
Today, however, Russia’s early warning system is compromised. The last of the satellites that would have detected missile launches from American territory and submarines in the past stopped functioning last fall. This has raised questions about Russia’s very ability to carry out launch-on-warning attacks.
然而如今，俄罗斯的早期预警系统已经受损。曾经能够监测到美国领土和潜水艇上的导弹发射的最后一颗卫星，已经在去年秋天停止工作。这引发了对俄罗斯是否有能力实施“收到预警后发射”的质疑。
Partly to compensate for the loss of its space-based system, Russia has deployed prefabricated radar units that can be set up quickly along its borders. Some of these are already operational; some are still being tested. Unlike satellite networks, radar can provide accurate information about the scale and targeting of a missile attack — but only once a missile has entered its vicinity, which would most likely be 10 to 15 minutes after launch.
俄罗斯已经部署了预制化雷达单元，可以沿边境迅速组装起来，这一定程度上是弥补太空雷达系统的不足。其中有些雷达单元已经投入运作；有些仍在测试。与卫星网络不同，雷达能够提供关于导弹袭击规模和目标的准确信息——不过只能在导弹进入附近区域时，差不多是在发射10至15分钟之后。
The upside of radar reporting is more information. The downside of having to wait is that it cuts the time for deciding whether to launch on warning. That in turn increases the likelihood of mistaken retaliation. For a submarine missile fired from the Norwegian Sea, Russia’s radar network would give its nuclear decision makers just 10 minutes to respond. America’s early warning systems can be expected to provide about twice as much time.
雷达报告的优点是能提供更多信息。不过，必须等待一段时间的缺点，意味着用于决策是否采取“收到预警后发射”的时间缩短了。这反过来增大了错误报复的几率。针对一枚从挪威海发射的潜水艇导弹，俄罗斯的雷达网络可能只给核决策者留有10分钟的反应时间。美国的预警系统预计可以提供两倍的时间。
Clearly, for either side, these timelines are very compressed and the opportunities for ill-considered decisions very real. Launch-on-warning puts enormous strain on the nuclear chains of command in both countries.
显然，对于任何一方来说，这些时间都非常局促，决策中考虑不周的可能性真实存在。“收到预警后发射”为两国的核指挥系统带来了巨大的压力。
In theory, no sensible head of state would authorize a launch-on-warning strike after receiving information that just one missile, or a small number of missiles, were inbound, on the assumption that this was not an intentional, full-scale attack. But the launch-on-warning doctrine still rules in both Russia and the United States — in which case the risk, however small, of cataclysmic error remains.
理论上讲，没有哪个头脑清楚的国家元首会在接到一枚导弹或者几枚导弹正在发射过来的信息之后，授权一次“收到预警后发射”的袭击，他们会认为这不是一次故意的全面袭击。不过，“收到预警后发射”的信条仍然被俄罗斯和美国奉为圭臬——这意味着，灾难性错误的风险虽然可能很小，但仍然存在。
This risk should motivate the presidents of Russia and the United States to decide in tandem to eliminate the launch-on-warning concept from their nuclear strategies. They should reinstitute military-to-military talks, which were suspended over the Ukraine crisis, to pursue this stand-down as an urgent priority. (A joint decision on this would not destabilize nuclear deterrence: Both countries still have nuclear forces designed to withstand a first-strike attack, guaranteeing retaliatory strikes.)
这种风险应该促使俄罗斯和美国总统决定从核战略中取消“收到预警后发射”的概念。他们应该重新开启因为乌克兰危机而暂停的军方会谈，以此为当务之急。（这样的联合决定不会破坏核威慑的稳定：两国仍然拥有能够承受第一次核打击的核力量，确保了可以实施报复性袭击。）
To reinforce this accord, both countries should refrain from conducting military exercises that involve practicing missile launches based on information from early warning systems. Even if this restraint cannot yet be fully verified, it would be a valuable contribution to strategic stability — and, of course, to preventing an inadvertent nuclear war. This would be a positive step ahead of the Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference that the United Nations will host later this month.
为了巩固这个协议，两国应避免进行涉及以来自早期预警系统的信息为基础的导弹发射的军事演习。即便这种限制目前还无法完全确认，它也将对战略稳定性做出宝贵贡献——当然，它还能避免发生意外的核战争。这对于联合国将于本月晚些时候召开的《不扩散核武器条约》缔约国审议大会(Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference)，将是一个积极的前奏。
Detailed verification measures can come later, once better Russian-American relations are restored. The technical implementation of a decision to abandon the launch-on-warning concept would fall within the framework of the New Start treaty. A phased reduction of the combat readiness of the strategic nuclear forces would provide a safer time buffer for nuclear decision making.
详细的确认措施可以等到俄美关系得到改善之后再制定。在技术层面实施放弃收到预警后发射这个概念的决定是包纳在《新削减战略武器条约》(New Start treaty)的框架以内的。分阶段削减战略核力量的战备程度，将为制定核决策提供一个更安全的缓冲时间。