WASHINGTON — The growing confrontation between Washington and Moscow over Ukraine has derailed a recent accord that promised one of the most expansive collaborations ever between the countries’ nuclear scientists, including reciprocal visits to atomic sites to work on projects ranging from energy to planetary defense.
华盛顿——华盛顿和莫斯科在乌克兰问题上的对峙日益加剧，让双方不久前达成的一份协议实施受阻。该协议包含了两国核专家迄今为止最大范围的多项合作，包括对两国核设施的互访，从而在从能源到行星防御的多个项目上开展合作。
It was only 11 months ago that the American energy secretary — Ernest J. Moniz, a former M.I.T. professor who has championed scientific programs that would bury the Cold War competitions between the United States and Russia — went to Vienna to sign the agreement, an indication of how recently the Obama administration believed it had a chance of building on a quarter-century of gradual integration of Russia with the West.
就在11个月前，美国能源部长、前麻省理工学院(MIT)教授欧内斯特·J·莫尼斯(Ernest J.Moniz)在维也纳签署了这份协议，此举意味着奥巴马政府开始相信，自己有可能以过去25年来俄罗斯与西方的逐渐融合为基础加以发展。莫尼斯曾经倡导一些让美国和俄罗斯抛开冷战竞赛的科研项目。
Handshakes and congratulations exchanged with Mr. Moniz’s Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Kirienko, sealed an arrangement that would let Russian scientists into, among other places, the heart of the American nuclear complex at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, where the first atomic bomb was constructed 70 years ago, and a dozen sister laboratories devoted to the making of the American nuclear arsenal. In return, American scientists would be allowed deep into Russian nuclear facilities, including the birthplace of the Soviet bomb.
莫尼斯与俄罗斯官员谢尔盖·V·基里延科(Sergey V. Kirienko)在握手并相互祝贺之后达成了上述协议，根据协议，俄罗斯科学家将能够进入位于新墨西哥州洛斯阿拉莫斯国家实验室(Los Alamos National Laboratory)的美国关键核设施——70年前，美国就是在这里研制出了第一枚原子弹；他们还可以参观十几个专门从事美国核武库研发的姊妹实验室，以及其他地方。反过来，美国科学家也可以深入到俄罗斯核设施内部参观，包括苏联核弹的诞生地。
The Energy Department’s announcement of the deal also highlighted its potential for “defense from asteroids,” shorthand for a proposal to recycle a city-busting warhead that could be aimed at an incoming earth-destroyer — a plot Hollywood had imagined 15 years before in two far-fetched thrillers, “Armageddon” and “Deep Impact,” in which Bruce Willis and Ben Affleck, among others, saved humanity.
在宣布这项协议时，能源部还强调了它“防御小行星”的潜力，简略地表达了这样一个提议：循环利用一个可以摧毁城市的核弹头，从而防止小行星摧毁地球——15年前，好莱坞在两部夸诞的惊悚片《绝世天劫》(Armageddon)和《天地大冲撞》(Deep Impact)中就想象了这样的情节。在这两部电影中，布鲁斯·威利斯(Bruce Willis)和本·阿弗莱克(Ben Affleck)扮演的角色拯救了人类。
Today, the real-life accord is on ice. This year, the Energy Department canceled nuclear meetings, symposia and lab visits with Russia.
如今，这个真实世界里的协议已被暂时搁置。今年，能源部取消了与俄罗斯的核会议、专题讨论以及实验室访问的计划。
Daniel B. Poneman, the deputy energy secretary, said that Russia’s annexation of Crimea in March had prompted the decision to freeze the accord.
能源部副部长丹尼尔·B·波内曼(Daniel B. Poneman)说，俄罗斯3月份占领克里米亚的举动触发了冻结该协议的决定。
“We’ve made it very clear that this is not a time for business as usual,” Mr. Poneman said Friday in his office. He added, however, that the Energy Department continued to work with Russia on the security of atomic materials.
“我们已经明确表示，照常合作是不可能的了，”波内曼周五在办公室说。不过他还说，能源部与俄罗斯在核材料安全方面仍保持着合作。
American officials and experts say the decision will limit how much each side knows about the other’s capabilities and intentions after more than two decades in which American and Russian nuclear scientists worked alongside one another. Those programs let once-bitter rivals, locked in the ultimate arms race, take each other’s measure and deepen relationships, reducing the chances for deadly miscalculation and technological surprise.
美国的官员和专家说，在美国和俄罗斯核专家并肩合作了20多年后，当前的情况将限制两国对对方能力和企图的了解。这些合作项目让曾经陷入终极军备竞赛中的死敌，开始估量对方的情况，加深双边关系，降低了由于误判和技术上的意外导致人员伤亡的几率。
Now, both sides are slipping back toward habits reminiscent of the Cold War. The joint atomic projects have declined substantially. Last week, Washington accused Moscow of violating a major arms treaty on missile technology. After the negotiation of the modest New Start treaty in 2010, progress toward another round of nuclear warhead reductions is dead in the water and unlikely to be revived during President Obama’s term in office.
如今，双方都回到了让人联想起冷战的一些做法。联合原子项目的数量大幅减少。上周，华盛顿谴责莫斯科违反了一项与导弹技术有关的重要武器公约。在2010年有关缺乏力度的《新削减战略武器条约》(New Start treaty)的谈判之后，另一轮削减核弹头方向上的进展已经陷入停滞，且在奥巴马总统的任期内不太可能起死回生。
Satellite photographs released publicly by American intelligence agencies purport to show the movement of heavy arms across the Ukrainian border from Russia — evidence reminiscent of the kind released by the United States during conflicts half a century ago over Cuba and Berlin.
为了展示重型武器从俄罗斯边境转移到乌克兰的活动，美国情报机构公开披露了一些卫星照片——这让人不禁想起半个世纪前，美国在有关古巴和柏林的冲突中公布的那种证据。
Perhaps most startling is not the direction of these steps, but their speed: As recently as January, the two sides were meeting regularly on joint arms control and scientific programs. The cancellations show how rapidly Mr. Obama has moved from a strategy that assumed Russia’s continued interest in cooperation to one that assumes that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is out to take as much territory and control as he can, and that letting Russian scientists into America’s nuclear complex is unwise.
或许最令人吃惊的并不是这些举措的趋向，而是速度：1月的时候，双方就联合军备控制及科学项目定期举行会晤。协议的取消说明奥巴马迅速从一个策略转至另一个策略，前者假定俄罗斯仍对合作感兴趣，后者假定俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)设法尽可能多地侵占领土，加以控制，让俄罗斯科学家进入美国的核设施是不明智的。
For Mr. Obama, the motivation for negotiating the accord clearly had much less to do with asteroid destruction than geopolitics.
对于奥巴马来说，与小行星毁灭相比，就协议举行谈判明显更多的是为了地缘政治。
The United States’ 20-year effort to secure Soviet nuclear materials was winding down. Siegfried S. Hecker, a former director of the Los Alamos weapons lab who has worked closely with Russian scientists, said the agreement had promised a new phase of teamwork and technical collaboration.
联合国20年来努力确保苏联核原料的安全，但此类举措在逐步减少。曾与俄罗斯专家密切合作的洛斯阿拉莫斯(Los Alamos)武器实验室前主任格弗里德·S·赫克(Siegfried S. Hecker)表示，该协议承诺展开新一阶段的团队和技术合作。
“It was an attempt to get back to good scientific cooperation,” Mr. Hecker said. “Unfortunately, such things were struggling before Ukraine and have gone nowhere since.”
“这是试图恢复良好的科学合作的举措，”赫克说，“遗憾的是，在乌克兰问题面前，此类举措陷入困境，没有什么进展。”
That is not true of every effort at cooperation. Americans and Russians are still working alongside each other, though increasingly at cross-purposes, on the Iranian nuclear negotiations. The United States still needs its astronauts to ride to the International Space Station on Russian rockets, and it wants to keep buying Russian engines for its missiles.
但并不是每一个合作项目都是如此。美国人和俄罗斯人仍旧开展合作，尽管双方在伊朗核谈判的问题上出现了越来越多的分歧。美国宇航员仍需要乘坐俄罗斯火箭进入国际空间站(International Space Station)，美国希望继续购买俄罗斯的发动机，制造导弹。
Even so, at a moment when the White House is imposing sanctions and working to counter the flow of weapons into Ukraine, it might be difficult to justify an exchange of nuclear scientists. But some experts say it is when times are tense that such midlevel interchanges are the most critical.
即便如此，在白宫施加制裁，设法反对俄罗斯将武器运入乌克兰的时候，可能很难找到交换核科学家的理由。但一些专家表示，在局势紧张的时候，这些中层交流活动才最重要。
“The idea of having thick relations with Russian nuclear scientists is a good idea,” said Graham Allison, a Harvard professor who negotiated some early deals on securing the Soviet arsenal during the Clinton administration, the peak of cooperation between American and Russian nuclear weapons scientists. “People get to know each other, work on joint projects, and there is a basis for conversation and cooperation.”
“与俄罗斯核科学家保持深厚关系是一个好主意，”哈佛大学(Harvard University)教授格雷厄姆·艾利森(Graham Allison)说。“人们开始互相了解，致力于合作项目，有一个对话与合作的基础。”在克林顿(Clinton)政府时期，艾利森曾参与确保俄罗斯核武安全的早期谈判，当时美俄核武器科学家合作处于最佳状态。
That was part of the impetus, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, behind the West’s effort to fund new projects for Russian nuclear scientists. Keeping them busily employed, the theory went, made it less likely that they would sell their expertise to Iran, North Korea or a terrorist group with nuclear ambitions.
这是苏联解体后，西方资助俄罗斯核科学家新项目的部分原因。理论上，使他们忙于工作，他们就不太能向伊朗、朝鲜或拥有核野心的恐怖主义组织出售专业知识。