PARIS — Secretary of State John Kerry said on Tuesday that the United States and Russia had agreed to share more intelligence on the Islamic State, as he sought to lay the basis for improved cooperation with Moscow.
巴黎——国务卿约翰· 克里(John Kerry)在周二说，美国和俄罗斯已经达成一致，要分享更多有关伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的情报。他这是在尝试为改善与莫斯科的关系打下基础。
Just six months ago, Obama administration officials suggested that their goal was to isolate President Vladimir V. Putin following Russia’s decision to annex Crimea and provide military support to separatists in eastern Ukraine.
仅仅六个月前，在俄罗斯决定吞并克里米亚，并向乌克兰东部的分离分子提供军事支持后，奥巴马政府官员曾表示，他们的目标是孤立弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统。
But Mr. Kerry made it clear that he would welcome expanded cooperation with Mr. Putin after a meeting here with Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister.
然而在和俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)会谈后，克里明确表示，他愿意扩大与普京的合作。
While nobody on the American side said the United States was undertaking another “reset” — the term the Obama administration used to describe its early attempt to improve ties with Russia — the tenor of Mr. Kerry’s comments suggested that the State Department was pursuing a new tack.
在美国方面，没有人会认为这是在实施又一次的“重启”——奥巴马政府曾用这个词来形容早前一些改善美俄关系的努力——然而克里的言谈主旨显示，国务院(State Department)正在尝试走一条新路。
“It is no secret that the United States and Russia have had our differences over Ukraine,” Mr. Kerry told reporters. “We came together today in order to try to focus on those issues where we can find the capacity to be able to make a difference to other countries, to the world in general, and certainly to the relationship between Russia and the United States.”
“美国和俄罗斯在乌克兰问题上存在分歧是众所周知的，”克里对记者说。“今天我们走到一起，是要把注意力放在那些以我们的能力可以给别的国家，给整个世界，带来一些改变的地方，当然也会有益于俄罗斯与美国的关系。”
Mr. Kerry began his discussions with Mr. Lavrov with a stroll in the manicured garden of the residence of the American ambassador here. Leaving their aides behind, the two diplomats talked alone on a wooden bench.
在美国大使官邸内的一座精心打理的花园里，克里和拉夫罗夫并肩漫步着，开始了此次的谈话。他们将各自的助手抛在一边，一起坐在一张木凳上聊着。
Mr. Lavrov’s spokeswoman captured the moment with two photographs that were posted on her Facebook page.
拉夫罗夫的女发言人用两张照片捕捉了这个场面，上传到她的Facebook页面上。
“How it was planned” read the caption beneath a photo of an empty conference table with nameplates for officials from the two nations.
“计划是这样”，她给一张谈判桌的照片配上了这样一条标题，桌边空无一人，桌上摆着两国官员的名牌。
“How it is done” read the caption of the two diplomats holding their tête-à-tête.
“实际是这样”几个字搭配的是两位外交官促膝长谈的照片。
After their talk, Mr. Kerry and Mr. Lavrov made their way to the conference room where they were joined by their aides for the more formal discussion.
会谈结束后，克里和拉夫罗夫前往会议室，与助手们一起开始了一场更正式的会面。
In a solo news conference after the meeting, Mr. Kerry outlined his diplomatic strategy, which appeared to be drawing in the Russians with proposals to cooperate on terrorism and global issues to try to lay a foundation for negotiations on tougher issues.
在会后单独进行的新闻发布会上，克里扼要陈述了他的外交策略，看起来它的重点是，在恐怖主义和全球问题方面向俄罗斯发出合作的提议，从而为双方就更棘手的问题展开谈判打下基础。
Noting that 500 or more Islamic State volunteers may have come from Russia, Mr. Kerry said that he had proposed that the two sides intensify intelligence sharing on the militant group and other terrorist threats, and that Mr. Lavrov had agreed.
鉴于伊斯兰国中来自俄罗斯的志愿者超过500人，克里说他已经提议双方加强在激进武装组织和其他恐怖主义威胁方面的情报共享，拉夫罗夫对此表示同意。
Opening the door to cooperation in Iraq, Mr. Kerry said Mr. Lavrov had agreed to explore whether Russia could do more to support Iraq’s beleaguered government as it battles the Islamic State — including by providing weapons.
期待在伊拉克展开合作的克里说，拉夫罗夫已经同意做出考虑，看俄罗斯是否能够向身处困境的伊拉克政府给予更多的支持，以对抗伊斯兰国——其中包括提供武器。
The bulk of the conversation, Mr. Kerry asserted, was on issues other than Ukraine, including how to fight the spread of Ebola; matters involving North Korea, Afghanistan, Syria, and Yemen; and efforts to negotiate an agreement to constrain Iran’s nuclear program, which Mr. Kerry insisted was not out of reach.
克里称，谈话在多数时间里不涉及乌克兰，主要内容包括阻止埃博拉病毒的蔓延；朝鲜、阿富汗、叙利亚、也门相关的问题；尝试在限制伊朗核项目一事上达成一致，在这方面，克里坚称是有机会实现目标的。
While White House officials had made it clear earlier this year that they were not cutting off all cooperation with Russia, they indicated that they were writing off the possibility of a constructive relationship with Mr. Putin — a possibility that Mr. Kerry on Tuesday seemed determined to keep open. Whether the two sides could ever reach a meeting of the minds on Ukraine, however, remained unclear.
今年早些时候，白宫官员明确表示他们不会切断和俄罗斯的所有合作，但他们也暗示已经打消了和普京建立建设性关系的念头——然而在周二，克里似乎坚信这种可能性仍然是存在的。至于双方是否可能在乌克兰问题上形成共识，则不得而知。
Mr. Kerry said the sides backed the agreement reached in Minsk last month to defuse the conflict. But he added that some provisions were open to interpretation and noted the United States would assess Russia’s compliance with the accord.
克里说双方均支持上月在明斯克就化解危机达成的协议。但他还说，有一些条款是可以从多方面解读的，美国会评估俄罗斯对这项协议的执行情况。
Economic sanctions on Moscow, Mr. Kerry said, would not be lifted until the Kremlin withdrew all of its troops and heavy equipment from Ukraine, arranged for Ukraine to regain control over its border with Russia and pressed Ukrainian separatists to release hostages.
克里说，除非克里姆林宫将在乌克兰的所有部队和重型装备撤出，安排乌克兰重新获得对俄乌边境的控制权，并敦促乌克兰分离分子释放人质，否则不会解除对莫斯科的经济制裁。
“The troops are pulling back,” said Mr. Kerry. “The heavy equipment still has to be pulled back. And the border is yet to be properly monitored and secured and put together.”
“部队正在回撤，”克里说。“重型装备也一定要撤。边境还需要得到应有的监控和保卫，并连成一体。”
Mr. Kerry said that he had cautioned Mr. Lavrov that any attempt by Ukrainian separatists in Luhansk and Donetsk to hold a vote on independence would violate the agreement reached in Minsk and would not be accepted by the international community.
克里说他提醒拉夫罗夫，卢甘斯克和顿涅茨克的乌克兰分离分子若尝试进行任何有关独立的投票，都将违反在明斯克达成的协议，为国际社会所不容。
“The foreign minister did not agree with our judgment,” Mr. Kerry acknowledged.
“外长不赞同我们的看法，”克里承认。
In a separate news conference, Mr. Lavrov sidestepped the question of whether Russia would end its military involvement in Ukraine, which NATO has said has involved sending several thousand troops into Ukraine, including artillery units, and providing weapons to the separatists. He repeated the Kremlin’s position that Moscow was not involved militarily in the conflict.
在另一场新闻发布会上，拉夫罗夫在被问及俄罗斯是否会停止在乌克兰的军事参与时选择了回避，北约(NATO)称俄罗斯的参与包括向乌克兰派出了数千人的部队，其中有火炮单位，并向分离分子提供武器。他重申了克里姆林宫的立场，即莫斯科没有从军事上参与该冲突。