PARIS — If an agreement to limit Iran’s nuclear capability is reached by deadline in the next seven days, one thing may be missing: an actual written accord, signed by the Iranians.
巴黎——如果未来七天限制伊朗核能力的协议可以在最后期限前达成，有一个东西可能是见不到的：一份由伊朗人签署的真正的书面协议。
Over the past few weeks, Iran has increasingly resisted any kind of formal “framework” agreement at this stage in the negotiations, preferring a more general statement of “understanding” followed by a final accord in June, according to Western diplomats involved in the talks.
据参加会谈的西方外交官说，在过去几周里，伊朗越来越强烈地反对在谈判的这个阶段达成任何形式的正式“框架”协议，而是倾向于发布一个比较笼统的“谅解”声明，然后在6月达成最后协议。
Should that position hold — one of the many unknowns of the coming days — the United States and its five negotiating partners may find themselves in the uncomfortable position of describing the accord as they understand it while the Iranians go home to offer their own version.
如果他们坚持这个立场——这是未来数日里的诸多未知因素中的一个——美国及其五个谈判伙伴可能就会处于一种尴尬境地：一方面按自己的理解来描述这个声明，另一方面伊朗人回国去宣布他们自己的解释。
That poses a weighty political challenge to the Obama administration, which is already under pressure to present Iran’s commitments to a suspicious Congress by early April, in an effort to hold off the passage of sanctions or a bill that would require Congress to sign off on any agreement.
这给奥巴马政府提出了重大政治挑战。他们其实已经处在压力之下，因为在4月初时，他们向持怀疑态度的国会陈述了伊朗的承诺，希望能延缓国会通过制裁措施，或一项要求任何协议都需要获得国会认可的法案。
Just last week, as the previous round of talks with Iran came to a close, a senior American official involved in the negotiations said that the framework accord with Iran would have to be more than a political declaration of intentions. Rather, it would have to contain a “quantifiable dimension.”
就在上周，与伊朗的上一轮谈判落下帷幕时，参与谈判的一名高级美国官员说，与伊朗之间的框架协议决不能仅仅是个表达意向的政治声明。相反，它必须包含一个“可量化的维度”。
There is a lot to quantify, from the number of uranium-enriching centrifuges that would remain spinning to exactly how Iran would change the design of a reactor that is under construction to limit the production of plutonium, another pathway to a bomb. But Iran says it will not agree to such specifics, at least for now.
需要量化的东西有很多，比如可以继续运转的铀浓缩离心机数目是多少，伊朗如何修改一个正在建造的反应堆的设计，以便限制钚的生产——钚是制造核弹的另一个途径。但伊朗表示，它不会同意这样的细节，至少现在不会。
“This is one of the biggest challenges we face,” one European diplomat involved in the talks said in recent days. “The politics in America demand specificity, and an Iranian commitment. And the politics in Iran demand vagueness” and no commitment until a possible final deal — with all its technical annexes — is reached in June.
“这是我们面临的最大挑战之一，”一位参与会谈的欧洲外交官近日说。“美国的政治状况决定了具体化的必要性，需要伊朗做出承诺。而伊朗的政治状况则要求进行模糊化，”在6月达成最终协议——及其所有技术附件——之前不做任何承诺。
The European official added, “All of us are in agreement that you don’t make oral deals with Iran.”
这位欧洲官员还说，“我们所有人都认为，不能与伊朗只达成口头协议。”
Secretary of State John Kerry met with President Obama at the White House on Tuesday, administration officials said, in part to give the president the latest details before departing for Lausanne, Switzerland, on Wednesday to continue talks.
本周二，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在白宫与奥巴马见面，美国政府官员说，他的一个目的是在周三继续举行会谈之前，向总统报告瑞士洛桑会谈的最新细节。
At the core of the problem is this political reality: Republicans in Congress, along with a significant number of Democrats, took the March deadline for a political agreement announced by Mr. Kerry on Nov. 24 as a critical milestone for any accord. If the Iranians could not provide specifics by then, many in Congress told the White House, then it was a sign that Iran was deliberately dragging out the process and needed to be further pressured by new sanctions.
问题的核心在于这样一个政治现实：克里去年11月24日宣布将在3月达成一个政治协定，而国会的共和党人，以及相当多的民主党人，把3月这个期限视为达成任何最终协议的一个重要里程碑。很多国会议员都告诉白宫，如果伊朗届时不承诺具体细节，那就是一个标志，显示伊朗在故意拖延会谈进程，因而需要进一步推出新的制裁措施，向伊朗施加压力。
But Iran’s politics are running in the opposite direction. The country’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has declared that he wants only one agreement, presumably the one in late June.
但伊朗的政治状况走向了相反的方向。伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)声称他只想要一份协定，指的应该就是6月底那份。
Iran’s top negotiator, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, has made it clear to his Western counterparts that keeping hard-liners in the country in check — including generals in the Revolutionary Guard Corps and powerful mullahs who dislike the idea of being limited by any accord — is a delicate art. His fear is that a deal that details Iranian compromises could give them an opening to scuttle a final deal.
伊朗首席谈判代表、外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)已经明确告知西方的外长们，应对该国的强硬派是一门微妙的艺术。这些强硬派包括伊朗革命卫队(Revolutionary Guard Corps)的将军，以及有权有势的毛拉，他们不喜欢受到任何协议的限制。扎里夫担心的是，如果在中途签署一项协议，详细呈现伊朗做出的妥协，强硬派就可能以此为契机，破坏最终协议的达成。
“We forget that the Iranians have politics, too,” one German official who has dealt with the issue at length said recently. “And theirs are at least as complicated as Obama’s.”
“我们忘记了，伊朗这边也有政治较量，而且其复杂程度不亚于奥巴马那边，”一位长期负责伊核问题的德国官员日前表示。