TEHRAN — A coterie of Iran’s hard-line Shiite Muslim clerics and Revolutionary Guards commanders is usually vocal on the subject of the Iranian nuclear program, loudly proclaiming the country’s right to pursue its interests and angrily denouncing the United States.
德黑兰——一些坚持强硬路线的伊朗什叶派穆斯林神职人员和革命卫队(Revolutionary Guards)指挥官通常都会明确支持伊朗的核项目，高声宣称伊朗有权追求自己的利益，并愤怒地谴责美国。
But as the United States and Iran prepare to restart nuclear talks this week, the hard-liners have been keeping a low profile.
但随着美国和伊朗准备在本周重启核谈判，强硬派一直保持低调。
“They have been remarkably quiet,” said Nader Karimi Joni, a former member of the Revolutionary Guards and the Basij, a volunteer paramilitary group.
前革命卫队成员、前巴斯基(Basij)成员纳德·卡里米·约尼(Nader Karimi Joni)说，“他们保持沉默，这有点不同寻常。”巴斯基是由志愿者组成的准军事组织。
Their silence is a result of state policies intended by Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, to seriously try to find a solution through negotiations. Ayatollah Khamenei has largely supported the nuclear talks and the Iranian negotiators, whom he has called “good and caring people, who work for the country.”
他们保持沉默是因为，伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)计划采取国家政策，认真地设法通过谈判找到解决方案。阿亚图拉·哈梅内伊基本上支持核谈判和伊朗的谈判代表，他称这些代表都是“非常优秀、体贴的人，他们为国家效劳”。
The restraint by the hard-liners also reflects a general satisfaction, analysts say, with the direction of the talks and the successes Iran is enjoying, extending and deepening its influence in Iraq, Lebanon, Syria and Yemen.
分析人士表示，强硬派的克制也反映，人们对谈判的发展方向，以及伊朗在享有、扩展、加深在伊拉克、黎巴嫩、叙利亚和也门的影响力方面取得的成功感到满意。
As a result, state-condoned demonstrations against the talks have fizzled out, as have meetings among hard-line politicians and student groups who said they had been worried about a potential deal.
因此，国家纵容的反对谈判的示威活动逐渐减少，强硬派政治人士和学生组织的会议也逐渐减少，此前他们称他们一直担心双方可能达成协议。
Billboards in Tehran once depicting United States negotiators as commandos and devils have been replaced by slogans supporting the international outreach of the government of President Hassan Rouhani, a moderate who won office promising to complete the nuclear deal and end crippling economic sanctions.
德黑兰地区那些曾将美国谈判代表描绘成突击队员和魔鬼的广告牌已被撤下，替换成对哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)政府接触国际社会的举措表示支持的标语，这位赢得选举的温和派总统承诺将会达成核协议，使伊朗摆脱造成严重损害的经济制裁举措。
Two weeks ago, the Committee to Protect Iranian Interests, the main group opposing the talks, was again out on the streets, but this time protesting the government’s economic policies.
两周之前，伊朗保护国家利益委员会(Committee to Protect Iranian Interests)——反对谈判的主要组织——再次走上街头，但他们这次抗议的是政府的经济政策。
“We are having in-house debates over our strategies,” said the group’s spokesman, Alireza Mataji, refusing to explain why he and his supporters were no longer publicly opposing a deal.
“我们就策略问题开展了内部讨论，”该组织发言人阿里-礼萨·马塔伊(Alireza Mataji)说。但马塔伊拒绝解释他和他的支持者为何不再公开反对达成协议。
Those debates are more likely a simple buckling under to orders from above, Mr. Joni said. “Those critical of a deal have been told to keep quiet, to prevent giving the other side the option to blame Iran,” said Mr. Joni, who is now a journalist.
约尼表示，这些讨论可能只是屈从于上面的命令。现在担任记者的约尼表示，“对协议持批评态度的人被告知要保持沉默，防止让对方抓到指责伊朗的把柄。”
Iran’s hard-liners, who have always pledged full allegiance to Ayatollah Khamenei, do not dare veer off the course for nuclear talks set out by him — even if they involve the archenemy United States.
那些一直承诺完全忠于阿亚图拉哈梅内伊的强硬派不敢改变哈梅内伊开启的核谈判的进程，即便宿敌美国也参与谈判。
In a speech on Saturday to commemorate the first day of the Iranian New Year, Ayatollah Khamenei underlined that his country’s establishment was in favor of talks. Addressing a crowd of thousands, he rejected President Obama’s remarks that some in Iran were against resolving the nuclear issue through diplomacy.
周六，阿亚图拉哈梅内伊发表演讲纪念伊朗新年的第一天时，强调伊朗政府支持谈判。他在向数以千计的民众发表演讲时，反驳了奥巴马的言论，奥巴马曾表示一些伊朗人反对通过外交途径解决核问题。
“This is a lie,” he said. “No one in Iran is against the resolution of the nuclear issue through negotiations. What the Iranian nation does not want to agree with is the impositions and bullying of the Americans.”
“这是谎话，”他说。“在伊朗，没有人反对通过谈判解决核问题。伊朗不愿同意的是美国人的过分要求和恃强凌弱的行为。”
While supporting the talks, the supreme leader has had to walk a fine line, balancing the hopes and expectations of those wanting to end Iran’s isolation with those deeply invested in its anti-Western ideology. So while encouraging the negotiations, Ayatollah Khamenei has also accused the United States of being untrustworthy, those who are familiar with his views say, so he can blame Washington if the talks fail.
虽然伊朗最高领袖支持谈判，但他需要格外小心，一边是希望终结伊朗孤立状态的人，一边是全身心致力于反西方意识形态的人，要在两者的希望与期待之间找到平衡。因此，那些熟悉阿亚图拉哈梅内伊态度的人表示，尽管对谈判表示鼓励，但他也在指责美国不值得信任；这样一来，倘若谈判失败，他就可以指责华盛顿了。
Until that moment, however, internal dissent will not be tolerated, as it will only undermine the country’s negotiating position, Iranian analysts and hard-liners say.
不过，伊朗分析人士和强硬派表示，直到那一刻到来前，内部异见分子都是不能容忍的，因为这只会有损国家的谈判立场。
“We will have no letters or other nonsense that we are witnessing in the United States,” Hamid Reza Taraghi, a political strategist with close ties to Ayatollah Khamenei, said, referring to a letter 47 Republican senators sent to Iran’s leaders warning them that any deal on their nuclear program could be reversed by Mr. Obama’s successor. “Iran speaks with one voice.”
“我们不会有像美国那样的任何信件或其他废话，”与阿亚图拉哈梅内伊关系密切的政治策略师哈米德·礼萨·塔拉吉(Hamid Reza Taraghi)说。这里指的是47名共和党参议员给伊朗领导人的一封信。他们在信中警告称，关于伊朗核项目的任何协议都可能会被奥巴马的继任者推翻。 “伊朗在用一个声音说话。”
Mr. Taraghi said the muzzle would remain in place as long as the negotiations seemed to be progressing. “Fact of the matter is that we are seeing positive changes in the U.S. position in the nuclear talks,” he said. “We are steadfast and the U.S. is compromising. We are not complaining.”
塔拉吉称，只要谈判看上去还在进展之中，这个警告就会继续有效。“事实是，我们看到美国在核谈判中的立场正在发生积极变化，”他说。 “我们很坚定，而美国正在让步。我们不是在抱怨。”
The last time Iran’s hard-line faction erupted was in February, after a well-documented stroll by Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, and Secretary of State John Kerry along the banks of Lake Geneva.
伊朗强硬派上次采取积极行动是在2月，此前伊朗外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)曾与国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)一同沿日内瓦湖（Lake Geneva，也称“莱芒湖”——译注）湖畔漫步。此事得到了充分记载。
This “show of intimacy with the enemy of humanity” was a disgrace for the nation, said Mohammad Reza Naghdi, head commander of the Basij. Members of Parliament quickly joined in, as did several influential Friday Prayer leaders, who are often critical of the government.
巴斯基首席指挥官穆罕默德·礼萨·纳格迪(Mohammad Reza Naghdi)称，这种“与人类的敌人表示亲密”的行为是国家的耻辱。议会议员快速加入，几名领导主麻日聚礼(Friday Prayer)的有影响力的宗教人士也采取了同样的行动，这些人经常对政府表示批判。
But after Mr. Zarif explained to Ayatollah Khamenei that refusing the afternoon stroll would have been a diplomatic faux pas, the leader agreed and all criticism ended, said Mohammad Sadegh Kharazi, a former Iranian ambassador with close ties to the ayatollah and Mr. Zarif.
但是，与阿亚图拉和扎里夫关系密切的前伊朗大使穆罕默德·萨迪格·哈拉齐(Mohammad Sadegh Kharazi)说，在扎里夫向阿亚图拉哈梅内伊解释拒绝下午的散步将会是外交方面的失态后，这位领导人表示赞同，所有批评也结束了。
“The leader is a logical and reasonable person,” Mr. Kharazi said. “He greatly trusts Mr. Zarif and knows he will do his utmost to get Iran’s rights in the talks.”
“这位领导人是一个讲逻辑、讲道理的人，”哈拉齐说。 “他非常信任扎里夫，知道他会尽最大努力在谈判中为伊朗争取权益。”
There is one remaining bastion of resistance, however. Iran’s oldest newspaper, Kayhan, whose editor in chief, Hossein Shariatmadari, was appointed by Ayatollah Khamenei, continues to criticize a potential deal.
然而，还有一道阻碍的防线。伊朗历史最悠久的报纸《世界报》(Kayhan)由阿亚图拉哈梅内伊任命的主编侯赛因·沙里亚特马达里(Hossein Shariatmadari)，仍然在对潜在的协议表示批评。
Its editorials cast doubts over leaked details, like a 10-year suspension of enrichment (a nonstarter, the paper says); the speech before Congress by Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu (a “fake struggle” between two allies); and the “real” intentions of the Obama administration to engage in talks (“their only goal is regime change”).
报纸的社论文章对泄露的细节表示了质疑，比如停止铀浓缩长达10年（报纸说这是无稽之谈）；以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在国会前发表的演讲（两个盟友之间的“虚假斗争”）；以及奥巴马政府参与谈判的“真实”意图（“他们的唯一目标就是政权更迭”）。
But even this conservative redoubt, wary of crossing Ayatollah Khamenei, holds its fire on the nuclear talks.
但是，即便是这个保守派堡垒，也因为担心得罪阿亚图拉哈梅内伊，而遏制了对核谈判的批评。
“In the end, the supreme leader will be the one who benefits from a deal,” said Mr. Taraghi, the analyst. “If it is a good deal, and he says so, all factions will follow him. If not, all will follow him, too.”
“最后，这位最高领导人会成为协议的受益者，”分析师塔拉吉说。“如果这是个很好的协议，而且他是这么说的，所有派别都将跟随他。如果不是，所有人也会跟随他。”