WASHINGTON — Dozens of seasoned militant fighters, including some midlevel planners, have traveled to Syria from Pakistan in recent months in what American intelligence and counterterrorism officials fear is an effort to lay the foundation for future strikes against Europe and the United States.
华盛顿——近几个月，已有数十名经验丰富的激进武装分子从巴基斯坦抵达叙利亚，其中包括一些中层策划者。美国情报官员和反恐官员担心，他们到那里的目的是未来对欧洲和美国发动袭击。
“We are concerned about the use of Syrian territory by the Al Qaeda organization to recruit individuals and develop the capability to be able not just to carry out attacks inside of Syria, but also to use Syria as a launching pad,” John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director, told a House panel recently.
美国中央情报局(CIA)局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)最近对众议院的一个委员会表示，“基地组织(Al Qaeda)通过叙利亚的领土招募人员，并发展出不仅能在叙利亚境内实施袭击，而且能利用叙利亚作为跳板对外发动攻击的能力，我们对此相当关切。”
The extremists who concern Mr. Brennan are part of a group of Qaeda operatives in Pakistan that has been severely depleted in recent years by a decade of American drone strikes. But the fighters still bring a wide range of skills to the battlefield, such as bomb-building, small-arms tactics, logistics, religious indoctrination and planning, though they are not believed to have experience in launching attacks in the West.
让布伦南担忧的极端分子是巴基斯坦基地组织的一群作战人员，近些年来，由于遭受了长达十年的美国无人机袭击，这支队伍的实力已经严重削弱。不过，这些武装分子仍然带着多种技能投入了战场，比如炸弹制作技术、小型武器战术、后勤支持、宗教灌输和阴谋策划，不过，人们不认为他们具有在西方发动袭击的经验。
Syria is an appealing base for these operatives because it offers them the relative sanctuary of extremist-held havens — away from drone strikes in Afghanistan and Pakistan — as well as ready access to about 1,200 American and European Muslims who have gone there to fight and could be potential recruits to carry out attacks when they return home. Senior counterterrorism officials have voiced fears in recent months that these Western fighters could be radicalized by the country’s civil war.
对于这些作战人员，叙利亚是一个具有吸引力的基地，因为这里有极端分子控制的区域，因此是相对安全的避难所。它远离阿富汗和巴基斯坦的无人机打击，同时还能接触到1200名到这里作战的美国和欧洲穆斯林。他们回国后，可能会受人招募实施袭击。近几个月，高级反恐官员已经表示，他们担忧这些西方作战人员可能会因叙利亚内战而变得极端化。
New classified intelligence assessments based on information from electronic intercepts, informers and social media posts conclude that Al Qaeda’s senior leadership in Pakistan, including Ayman al-Zawahri, is developing a much more systematic, long-term plan than was previously known to create specific cells in Syria that would identify, recruit and train these Westerners.
根据电子监听、线人爆料和社交媒体上的贴子新整理出的机密情报评估报告认为，包括艾曼·扎瓦赫里(Ayman al-Zawahri)在内的巴基斯坦基地组织高级头目正在制定长期规划，在叙利亚建立特别小组，甄别、招募和培训上述西方人，这些规划比以往人们所知的计划更加系统化。
Al Qaeda has in the past blessed the creation of local branches in places like Yemen, where an affiliate has tried to strike the United States. But the effort in Syria would signify the first time that senior Qaeda leaders had set up a wing of their own outside Pakistan dedicated to conducting attacks against the West, counterterrorism officials said. It also has the potential to rejuvenate Al Qaeda’s central command, which President Obama has described as being greatly diminished.
过去，基地组织在也门等地推动了当地分支的组建，基地组织在也门的附属组织曾试图袭击美国。不过，反恐官员表示，基地组织在叙利亚的行动标志着，其高级头目首次在巴基斯坦之外建立自己的嫡系分支。此举还有可能重振基地组织的中央指挥部，奥巴马总统曾称该中央指挥部已被大大削弱。
The assessment by the United States, however, has some detractors among even its staunchest counterterrorism partners, which also see an increase in Pakistan-based veterans of Al Qaeda among Syrian rebel groups but which disagree over whether they are involved in a coordinated plan to attack the West.
然而，哪怕是在美国最坚定的反恐伙伴中，都出现了一些质疑美国评估的声音。这些质疑者也发现，叙利亚反对派武装团体中，来自巴基斯坦的基地组织老手的人数出现增加，不过对于这些人是否参与了攻击西方的协同计划，他们有不同看法。
“At this stage, it’s a lot less organized than a directed plan,” said one Western security official. “Some fighters are going to Syria, but they’re going on an ad hoc basis, not at an organized level.”
“目前阶段，他们的组织程度远未达到具有指向明确的计划，”一名西方安全官员说。“一些武装分子正在奔向叙利亚，不过他们的行动各怀目的，没有达到有组织的程度。”
Most of the operatives identified by intelligence officials are now focused on attacking Syrian government troops and occasionally rival rebel factions. But the fact that these kinds of operatives are showing up in Syria indicates to American officials that Mr. Zawahri is also playing a long game — counting on easy access to Iraq and Qaeda support networks there, as well as on the United States’ reluctance to carry out drone strikes or other military operations against targets in Syria.
情报官员识别出的许多作战人员目前主要攻击叙利亚政府军，偶尔攻击其他的反对派团体。然而在美国官员看来，这种作战人员现身叙利亚，就显示出扎瓦赫里同时还在打一场持久战，期望能利用与伊拉克之间便利的联系，以及基地组织在当地的支持网络，也认定了美国不愿意针对叙利亚的目标，采取无人机袭击或其他军事行动。
“A key question, however, is how using Syria as a launching pad to strike the West fits into Zawahri’s overall strategy, and if he’s soft-pedaling now, hoping to consolidate Al Qaeda’s position for the future,” said one American counterterrorism official. “Clearly, there is going to be push and pull between local operatives and Al Qaeda central on attack planning. How fast the pendulum will swing toward trying something isn’t clear right now.”
一名美国反恐官员说，“然而，一个关键的问题是，利用叙利亚作为跳板打击西方的步骤，是如何与扎瓦赫里的全局战略相协调的。还有，他现在的低调表现，是不是为了巩固基地组织日后的实力。显然，本地的作战人员和基地组织核心人物之间，在筹划袭击时会存在分歧。目前还不清楚，他们什么时候会下定决心，尝试采取某种行动。”
The new assessment is not likely to change American policy toward Syria any time soon, but it puts pressure on the Obama administration and its allies because it raises the possibility that Syria could become the next Afghanistan.
新的评估不太可能在近期改变美国对叙利亚政策，不过它给奥巴马政府施加了压力，因为它加大了叙利亚变成下一个阿富汗的可能性。
The Qaeda veterans have multiple missions and motivations, counterterrorism officials say. Like thousands of other foreign fighters, many have been drawn on their own to Syria to fight the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
反恐官员称，基地组织的老手有许多不同的目标和动机。和其他数千名外国战斗人员一样，他们当中的许多人也是自行前往叙利亚，与总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府军作战的。
Many others, like Abu Khalid al-Suri, a Syrian-born veteran of Al Qaeda, were sent by the terrorist group’s central command in Pakistan first to fight Mr. Assad, but also to begin laying the groundwork to use enclaves in Syria to launch attacks against the West, American officials said.
还有许多人是被这个恐怖组织在巴基斯坦的中央指挥部派往叙利亚的，这些人的首要任务是和阿萨德作战，不过他们也开始利用基地组织在叙利亚境内的地盘，为发动针对西方的袭击做准备。生于叙利亚的基地组织老手阿布·哈立德·苏里(Abu Khalid al-Suri)就是一个例子。
Mr. Suri, who is believed to have been close to Osama bin Laden and to have fought against American forces in Afghanistan and Iraq, was sent to mediate conflicts between Al Qaeda’s main affiliate in Syria, the Nusra Front, and another extremist faction, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, which Al Qaeda has disavowed. He was killed in a suicide attack in February by the rival group.
苏里被派往叙利亚调停基地组织在叙利亚的主要附属组织“努斯拉阵线”(Nusra Front)与另一个极端主义组织“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)之间的矛盾，基地组织否认与后者有关。据信苏里和奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)一度关系紧密，他曾在阿富汗和伊拉克与美军作战。今年2月，他在其他反对派团体发动的自杀式袭击中身亡。
Many of the Qaeda planners and operatives from Afghanistan and Pakistan have clustered in the east and northwest sections of Syria, in territory controlled or heavily influenced by the Nusra Front, intelligence officials said.
情报官员说，许多来自巴基斯坦的基地组织策划人员和作战人员聚集在叙利亚东部和西北部，这些区域要么由努斯拉阵线控制，要么深受其影响。