Legislation that would impose the toughest sanctions to date on Iran over its disputed nuclear program has been scheduled for a vote in the House on Wednesday, four days before the inauguration of that country’s newly elected president, a moderate cleric who has made improved relations with the United States an important goal.
一项意在对伊朗施加最严厉制裁的提案，将于周三在美国众议院投票表决，制裁的原因是伊朗在实施引发纠纷的核计划。表决后再过四天，伊朗的新当选总统，一位视与美国修好为重任的温和派神职人员，将正式就职。
The legislation, if enacted into law and fully enforced, could basically eradicate what is left of Iran’s diminished oil exports by coercing its remaining customers to find other suppliers. Proponents of the legislation say that with 376 sponsors, it is expected to pass the House easily. It would then move to the Senate for consideration in September.
这项法案一旦通过并全面实施，将迫使伊朗现有的石油主顾转向别的供应商，从而基本终结该国已经日渐减少的石油出口。提案支持者说，凭着376名发起人，它在众议院有望轻松通过。而后提案将在9月转至参议院进行评估。
But critics say the timing of the House vote has raised sharp questions about the kind of message it would send to Iran’s president-elect, Hassan Rouhani, before he takes office on Sunday. It has also laid bare a divide over Iran policy between Congress and the Obama administration, which has adopted a somewhat less confrontational approach.
但是批评人士认为，众议院投票的时机会引发一个严峻的问题：在伊朗当选总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)上任前，这样的举动传达了怎样的讯息。同时它也曝露了国会和奥巴马政府在伊朗政策上存在的分歧，后者在某种程度上一直在采取相对缓和的方式。
Early this month, just weeks after Mr. Rouhani’s victory, the administration received an overture for direct talks with Iran’s leaders, and last week, in what was seen as a modest conciliatory gesture, it moved to ease a sanctions provision concerning sales of medical devices to Iran.
本月初，鲁哈尼选举获胜没多久，奥巴马政府就接到了伊朗方面的主动示好，愿意让双方领导人进行直接对话，上周政府做出了一个被认为是比较适中的和解姿态，放松了向伊朗销售医疗设备的制裁措施。
“Most people are saying this vote is taking place at the wrong time,” said Dariush Zahedi, an Iran sanctions expert who is now a political science lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley. “They should wait and give Rouhani an opportunity to make good on his agenda.”
“多数人都认为这个投票的时机是错误的，”现为加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)政治学讲师的伊朗制裁专家达柳什·扎赫迪(Dariush Zahedi)说。“他们应该等一等，让鲁哈尼有机会去实施自己的构想。”
Megan Whittemore, the press secretary for Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, who is responsible for scheduling votes, said in an e-mail that she expected the debate on the bipartisan legislation to begin on Wednesday, with a vote most likely on Thursday. Others said the vote could be delayed until after the August recess.
众议院多数党领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)的新闻秘书梅根·维特莫尔(Megan Whittemore)负责排定投票日程，她在一封电子邮件中说，她认为这项跨党派提案的辩论有望在周三开始，投票很有可能在周四进行。另外有人说投票可能会推迟到8月休会以后。
Many of the bill’s sponsors, who did not anticipate Mr. Rouhani’s surprise victory in Iran’s election on June 14, were among the 131 lawmakers who signed a letter to President Obama on July 19 urging him to avoid “actions that delegitimize the newly elected president.”
许多提案发起人没有想到，鲁哈尼在6月14日的伊朗大选中意外获胜。7月19日，131名议员联合致信奥巴马总统，呼吁避免“影响新当选总统之正当性的行动”，其中有不少人正是该提案的发起人。
Some signed a letter circulating among House members on Tuesday asking the House leadership to postpone the vote, at least until after Mr. Rouhani has an opportunity to restart talks on Iran’s uranium enrichment program, suspended before the election. Iran contends the enrichment is for peaceful purposes, but much of the world suspects it is meant to achieve the ability to make atomic weapons.
其中一些人还联署了一封信，周二在众议院议员之间传阅，内容是要求众议院领导层推迟投票，至少给鲁哈尼一个机会，重新就伊朗铀浓缩项目展开对话，而对话在该国大选前处于中断状态。伊朗坚称，铀浓缩是出于和平目的，但其他国家大都怀疑它是想要掌握生产核武器的能力。
“The question is, why are proponents so adamant on having the vote now?” said Trita Parsi, the president and founder of the National Iranian American Council, a Washington-based group that opposes sanctions. “It certainly raises the suspicions they want to explode what opportunity may exist for negotiations.”
“问题是，提案倡导人为什么非要在这个时候投票？”伊朗裔美国人全国理事会(NationalIranian American Council)的创始者兼会长特里塔·帕尔西(Trita Parsi)说。“这自然让人担心，他们会不会因此毁掉谈判的机会。”这个总部位于华盛顿的团体对制裁持反对态度。
Supporters of the legislation argued that the vote’s timing would send exactly the type of message that, in their view, is the only one taken seriously by Iranian leaders: a threat that would force them to make a choice between self-preservation and economic catastrophe.
提案的支持者则认为，趁这个时机投票恰恰能释放一种正确的讯息，在他们看来这是伊朗领导人唯一能听得进去的那种：这是一个威胁，强迫他们在自我保护和经济灾难之间做出抉择。
“We’re not negotiating with folks who trained at the Harvard Negotiation Project,” said Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington group that supports stronger sanctions. The legislation’s sponsors, he said, “understand that Iran “has a negotiation strategy based on brinkmanship.”
“我们可不是在跟哈佛谈判计划(Harvard Negotiation Project)培训出来的人谈判，”支持采取更严厉制裁的华盛顿团体保卫民主基金会(Foundation for Defense of Democracies)总干事马克·杜博维茨(Mark Dubowtiz)说。他说提案的发起人很清楚伊朗是“在边缘政策的基础上制定谈判策略的”。
Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota, who opposes a vote now, was among those circulating the letter to colleagues urging a delay. The Iranians, he said, will interpret the vote as a signal of hostility. “I’m worried we could strengthen the hand of the hard-liners who don’t want to talk,” he said.
明尼苏达州民主党众议员凯斯·埃里森(Keith Ellison)反对现在投票，并且在院内传阅的那封呼吁推迟投票的信中署了名。他说伊朗人会把投票解读为一种敌意的表示。“我担心我们这样会助长那些不愿谈判的强硬派的势力。”