WASHINGTON — Republicans vowing to govern effectively as a congressional majority failed a fundamental test Friday evening, when House leaders could not pass a temporary measure to avert a partial shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security, leaving lawmakers scrambling for a solution before money was to run out at midnight.
华盛顿——作为国会的多数党，共和党一直承诺将成为实际的执政者。然而周五晚间，共和党却未能通过一项基本测试：众议院领袖未能通过一项避免国土安全部部分停摆的临时协议，议员们不得不在午夜资金耗尽之前匆忙寻找解决方案。
In a stunning and humiliating setback for Speaker John A. Boehner and his leadership team, the House voted 224 to 203 against their plan to extend funding for the department for three weeks.
这对议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)及他的领导团队是一次惊人和尴尬的挫折：众议院以224比203的投票结果否决了他们提出的将国土安全部拨款延长三个星期的方案。
The bill was defeated during a tense evening vote on the House floor, despite leadership optimism that, after a day of arm-twisting behind the scenes, they had the muscle to win a narrow victory.
该法案是在众议院的一场紧张的夜间投票中遭到否决的，尽管众议院的领袖们之前曾乐观地认为，经过一天的幕后施压之后，自己能够以微弱优势取胜。
The defeat for House Republican leaders came after the Senate passed its own legislation in the morning to fund the department through the fiscal year — even though senators fully expected the House to pass their own temporary three-week measure.
众议院共和党领袖的这次挫败之前，参议院在当天上午通过了为国土安全部提供整个财年拨款的法案——虽然参议员们都以为众议院会通过延期三周的临时方案。
In the aftermath of the vote, the House Republican leadership team huddled to come up with a new approach, but its options were limited given the deep rebellion by its more conservative members against supporting anything that does not halt President Obama’s immigration policies. The original legislation passed by the House essentially gutted those policies.
投票之后，众议院共和党领袖们开了一个会，想要拿出一个新办法，但考虑到党内更保守成员的反对，他们的选项十分有限。这些保守成员拒绝支持任何不会终止奥巴马总统移民政策的方案。众议院最初通过的法案实际上已经毁掉了这些移民政策。
At one point, as the legislation stalled, Mr. Boehner walked wordlessly from the chamber, his head down.
由于法案未通过，博纳一度耷拉着脑袋，一言不发地走出了众议院的会议厅。
Friday’s crisis represented a perilous situation for the speaker, who has since taking control of the House in 2011 struggled to unite his fractious rank-and-file on spending and policy issues.
周五的危机令这位议长陷入了岌岌可危的处境。自从2011年执掌众议院以来，他一直难以在支出和政策问题上令脾气暴躁的议员们达成一致。
Mr. Boehner wants to avoid a shutdown for which he knows Republicans will be blamed, but he cannot risk getting out too far ahead of his conservative members, who are dug in against the president.
博纳想要避免国土安全部停摆，他知道，这种情况一旦出现就会被归咎于共和党，但他也不能与坚决反对总统的保守派成员拉开太大距离。
For Mr. Boehner, said Representative Steve Israel of New York, a Democratic leader, “Homeland Security is the security of his gavel, and tonight it’s less secure.”
民主党领导人之一、纽约州众议员史蒂夫·伊斯雷尔(Steve Israel)称，对于博纳来说，“国土安全部是他官位的一道保险，但今晚他的位子却没那么有保障了。”
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, in a statement called on House Republicans to pass the Senate’s funding bill. “The Republican congress has shown that it simply cannot govern,” Mr. Reid said. “Two months into the Republican congress, we are already staring a Homeland Security shutdown square in the face, even as terrorists around the world threaten to strike America.”
民主党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)在一份声明中呼吁众议院的共和党人通过参议院的预算案。“共和党执掌的国会已经证明，它根本就没能力执政，”里德说。“共和党执掌国会两个月之后，我们现在眼睁睁地看着国土安全部停摆，而与此同时，全球的恐怖分子都在威胁要袭击美国。”
The impasse over the Homeland Security agency reflects a broader fight in Congress over President Obama’s immigration policies. Republicans are trying to attach restrictions on Mr. Obama’s executive action on immigration to the department’s funding measure.
围绕国土安全局的僵局，反映出了国会在奥巴马总统的移民政策上存在广泛斗争。共和党正在试图把限制奥巴马总统的移民政令一事，和国土安全部拨款协议问题挂钩。
But it also exposed deep rifts between House and Senate Republicans, who struggled in recent weeks to agree on a pragmatic path forward to both keep the agency running and express their displeasure with the president’s recent immigration action.
但这也暴露出众议院和参议院的共和党成员之间存在严重分歧。最近几周，双方未能就一条务实的前进道路达成一致，达到既能维持国土安全部的运行，又能表达他们对总统最近的移民行动不满的目的。
“We should have never fought this battle,” said Senator Mark S. Kirk, Republican of Illinois. “In my view, in the long run, if you are blessed with the majority, you are blessed with the power to govern. If you’re going to govern, you have to act responsibly.”
“我们根本就不该开始这场斗争，”伊利诺伊州共和党参议员马克·S·柯克(Mark S. Kirk)说。“我认为，从长远来看，如果得到了大多数的支持，就得到了执政的权力。如果要执政，必须负责任。”
After the Republicans gained control of the Senate and increased their margins in the House in the November elections, both Mr. Boehner and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, promised to reverse Congress’s pattern of hurtling from crisis to crisis, even over matters like appropriations that were once relatively routine.
在去年11月共和党在选举中获得了对参议院的控制权，并增加了在众议院的优势后，博纳和多数党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)承诺要扭转国会危机不断的状态，现在连原本相对平淡无奇的拨款等问题，也会出现危机。
But in their first big test, the Republican leaders often seemed to be working from different playbooks, at times verging on hostility, with each saying it was time for the other chamber to act.
但在对他们的首场大考验中，共和党的这两名领袖常常表现得像是在各自为政，偶尔会在敌视对方这一点上意见相近，双方都在说是对方采取行动的时候了。
The fight over the Homeland Security funding — coupled with a separate revolt by House conservatives — also upended Republican plans to overhaul No Child Left Behind, the 2001 education law that was a signature domestic achievement of President George W. Bush.
围绕对国土安全部拨款的斗争，以及众议院保守派发起的另一场反抗，也破坏了共和党全面修订《不让孩子掉队》(No Child Left Behind)法案的计划。2001年通过这项教育法是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)在国内取得的标志性成就。