WASHINGTON — In a battle that pits the East Coast against the Midwest over the winds that carry dirty air from coal plants, the governors of eight Northeastern states plan to petition the Environmental Protection Agency on Monday to force tighter air pollution regulations on nine Rust Belt and Appalachian states.
华盛顿——东海岸和中西部地区正为煤厂的脏空气随风四散而争斗。周一，八位东北部各州的州长计划向美国国家环境保护局（Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA）请愿，要求对“铁锈地带”和阿巴拉契亚地区的九个州强制采用更为严格的空气污染管理。
The East Coast states have for more than 15 years been subject to stricter air pollution requirements than many other parts of the country. Their governors have long criticized the Appalachian and Rust Belt states for their more lenient rules on pollution from coal-fired power plants, factories and tailpipes — allowing those economies to profit from cheap energy while their belched soot and smog are carried on the prevailing winds that blow across the United States.
在过去15年多的时间里，东海岸的各州一直遵守比美国很多其他地区更为严格的空气污染要求。而东海岸的州长们长期以来也一直对阿巴拉契亚和铁锈地带持批评态度，因为这些州对于使用煤炭的火力发电厂、工厂及尾气造成的污染纵容姑息，靠廉价能源获取经济收益。但与此同时，喷薄而出的粉尘和烟雾却由盛行风裹挟，飘至美国各处。
All the governors on the petition are Democrats. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican and a potential presidential candidate in 2016, has not signed it.
所有参与请愿的州长都是民主党人。身为共和党人并有可能成为2016年总统候选人的新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)还没有在请愿书上签名。
The petition comes the day before the Supreme Court is to hear arguments to determine the fate of a related E.P.A. regulation known as the “good neighbor” rule. The regulation, officially called the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule, would force states with coal pollution that wafts across state lines to rein in soot and smog, either by installing costly pollution control technology or by shutting the power plants.
请愿发起之时正值美国最高法院(Supreme Court)即将听取各方意见，并对由EPA颁布、被称为“友邻”规则的相关监管措施的命运进行裁定之际。官方命名为《跨州大气污染条例》(Cross-State Air Pollution Rule)的监管规定将强制那些煤炭污染殃及本州边界以外地区的各州，对其粉尘及烟雾排放进行控制，要么采用昂贵的污染控制技术，要么关闭火力发电厂。
Even if the regulation is upheld, the Eastern governors are seeking stronger constraints on pollution from the Midwest and Rust Belt states.
即使该规定获得法院支持，东部州的州长们仍要寻求更为有力的措施，以遏制来自中西部及铁锈地带的污染。
The Obama administration issued the “good neighbor” rule, which would apply chiefly to power plants in 27 states east of Nebraska, half of the country, in 2011, but a federal court struck it down. The rule is part of President Obama’s growing effort to use E.P.A. regulations to crack down on coal pollution.
由奥巴马政府于2011年颁布的“友邻”规则，将主要在内布拉斯加以东27个州的电厂实施，这相当于半个美国，但在某联邦法院遭到驳回。该规定也是奥巴马总统利用EPA规定加强治理煤炭污染的举措之一。
In the case before the Supreme Court, the E.P.A. argues that the cross-state air rule is necessary to protect the health and environment of downwind states. The utilities and 15 states on the other side argue that the rule, as written by the Obama administration E.P.A., gives the agency too much regulatory authority and places an unfair economic burden on the states.
在最高法院进行陈述时，EPA认为有必要执行跨州空气规定，以保护处于下风地区各州的环境和人民健康。而处于另一方的15个州及供电企业则认为，奥巴马政府领导下的EPA起草的规定，赋予了EPA过大的监管权，并为这些州造成了不公平的经济负担。
Like the petition from the Northeastern governors, the court case reflects the growing anger of East Coast officials against the Appalachian states that mine coal and the Rust Belt states that burn it to fuel their power plants and factories. Coal emissions are the chief cause of global warming and are linked to many health risks, including asthma and lung disease.
和东北部州长的请愿一样，法院的这一案例反映了东海岸地区官员对于产煤的阿巴拉契亚地区，和烧煤发电并进行生产的铁锈带各州，不断加剧的怒火。燃煤排放是全球变暖的罪魁祸首，并造成多项健康威胁，包括哮喘和肺部疾病。
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut, who is leading the effort by East Coast governors to crack down on out-of-state pollution, called it a “front-burner issue” for his administration.
领导东海岸各州州长打击跨州污染的康涅狄格州州长达内尔·P·马洛伊(Dannel P. Malloy)称之为其州政府“迫在眉睫的问题”。
“I care about this because it’s put Connecticut at an economic disadvantage,” Mr. Malloy said in an interview. “We’re paying a lot of money to remove these compounds from the air.”
“我之所以关心这件事，是因为它让康涅狄格处于经济劣势，”马洛伊接受采访时称。“为了从空气中去除这些化合物，我们在大把花钱。”
Mr. Malloy said that more than half the pollution in Connecticut was from outside the state and that it was lowering the life expectancy of Connecticut residents with heart disease or asthma. “They’re getting away with murder,” Mr. Malloy said of the Rust Belt and Appalachia. “Only it’s in our state, not theirs.”
马洛伊称，康涅狄格超过一半的污染来自州外，而这些污染会导致心脏疾病和哮喘，正在降低本州居民的预期寿命。谈到铁锈地带和阿巴拉契亚山脉地区，马洛伊说，“他们逍遥法外。可倒霉的是我们州，不是他们自己。”
In the last three years, Republicans and the coal industry have campaigned aggressively against the E.P.A. regulations as they have accused Mr. Obama of waging a “war on coal.”
过去三年里，共和党人与煤炭业大力反对EPA的监管，指责奥巴马发起了一场“对煤炭的战争”。
Across the Midwest, many lawmakers see the regulations as a serious economic threat. Representative Fred Upton, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has said that the cross-state air rule will force families to face “the threat of higher power bills, less reliability and job losses.”
在中西部各州，许多议员认为，这些监管措施对经济构成了严重威胁。众议院能源和商务委员会(House Energy and Commerce Committee)主席、来自密歇根州的共和党议员弗雷德·厄普顿(Fred Upton)曾说，跨州大气条例将迫使众多家庭面临“电费账单上升、可靠性减少及失业的威胁”。
Murray Energy Corporation, an Ohio-based coal company, is among the parties suing the E.P.A. in the Supreme Court. Gary Broadbent, a spokesman for the company, called the cross-state air rule “absolutely irrational, exorbitantly expensive,” and said it “would kill thousands of jobs, with no environmental benefit whatsoever.”
总部在俄亥俄州的默里能源公司(Murray Energy Corporation)是最高法院一案中对EPA提起诉讼的原告之一。公司发言人加里·布罗德本特(Gary Broadbent)表示，跨州大气条例“荒谬绝伦、贵得离谱”，并称它“将抹杀成千上万的工作机会，却完全没有环境等方面的好处”。
The Northeast has long had some of the nation’s dirtiest air. In the 1970s and 1980s, East Coast pollution was produced largely by dense cities and busy highways, particularly Interstate 95. A 1990 clean-air law placed tight regional restrictions on pollution from ozone, a primary contributor to smog on much of the Northeast.
长期以来，东北地区的空气污染属全国最严重之列。上世纪七八十年代，东海岸的污染大部分来自密集的城市及繁忙的公路，尤其是95号州际公路。1990年的一项清洁空气法对臭氧污染设置了严格的区域限制，因为臭氧是东北大部分地区产生烟雾的一个主因。
But East Coast governors say that after a decade of cleaning up their air — by, for example, putting “scrubbers” on smokestacks and requiring vehicle emissions tests, which are not mandatory in many other parts of the country — they have squeezed all the pollution they can out of their economies. While Northeastern air is often still so polluted that it violates federal law, the governors say that is because of a problem they cannot control: the wind pattern across the continental United States that typically blows from west to east.
不过，东海岸各州的州长称，经过10年清洁大气的努力，他们已经发掘了经济中的全部去污潜力。这些清洁措施中包括在烟道上安装“洗涤器”，以及要求机动车进行排放测试。在众多其他地区，它们都不是强制要求。可是，东北的大气污染仍然时常严重到违反联邦法规的地步，州长们宣称，这是因为他们控制不了的一个问题：美国本土的风向往往是从西向东的。
At the same time, Midwestern states enjoy the benefits of fresh air blown in from the Mountain West. E.P.A. data cited in briefs for the Supreme Court case shows that in many parts of Eastern states, half or more of the smog and toxic air pollution originates from out of state. The briefs say, for example, that 93 percent of the ozone pollution in New Haven, Conn., originates from out of state.
与此同时，中西部各州则享受了西部落基山脉地区吹来的新鲜空气的好处。最高法院一案的案情摘要中援引的EPA数据显示，在东部各州的许多地方，一半或以上的烟雾和有毒空气污染来自州外。比方说，摘要中称，康涅狄格州纽黑文93%的臭氧污染来自州外。
The E.P.A. estimates that the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule would prevent up to 34,000 premature deaths, 15,000 nonfatal heart attacks, 19,000 cases of acute bronchitis, 400,000 cases of aggravated asthma and 1.8 million sick days a year.
根据EPA的估算，《跨州大气污染条例》每年可防止多达3.4万例早逝、1.5万例非致命性心肌梗死、1.9万例急性支气管炎、40万例严重哮喘，以及共180万天的病假。
The E.P.A. also estimates that the rule would cost businesses $800 million annually because of the expense of installing smokestack scrubber technology and shutting the dirtiest coal plants. That burden would be borne disproportionately by the Rust Belt states, which would have to modify their coal plants. Ohio, for example, gets 78 percent of its electricity from burning coal. Coal is responsible for 83 percent of the electricity in Indiana and 93 percent of the electricity in Kentucky.
EPA还估算出，由于安装烟道洗涤器技术与关停污染最严重的煤电厂带来的花销，该条例将使商界每年增加8亿美元的成本（约合49亿元人民币）。铁锈地带各州必须整改各自的煤电厂，从而承担更多的负担。比如，俄亥俄州78%的电力来自燃煤，而印第安纳州和肯塔基州的这一比例分别为83%和93%。
Coal industry advocates say that adding new regulations to those states would not make a difference to air quality on the East Coast.
维护煤炭业权益的人辩称，即使给这些州增加新的监管措施，东海岸的空气质量也不会有所好转。
“It’s been very convenient for Northeastern states to blame their ozone problem on Midwestern power plants, but they’re a very small part of the problem,” said Jeffrey Holmstead, an assistant administrator for the E.P.A. during the administration of George W. Bush who now lobbies on behalf of coal companies. “It mostly comes from all those vehicles and businesses along the Eastern Seaboard.”
曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府担任EPA助理局长的杰弗里·霍尔姆斯特德(Jeffrey Holmstead)如今代表煤炭企业游说。“把臭氧问题推到中西部的发电厂身上，这样做对东北各州来说很省事。可是，它们只占问题的很小一部分，”他说。“大部分臭氧污染来自东海岸的那么多机动车和企业。”