President Obama may cancel a scheduled trip to Moscow to meet with President Vladimir V. Putin in September as the standoff over the fate of Edward J. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor seeking asylum there, takes its toll on already strained relations between the United States and Russia, officials said Thursday.
美国官员本周四表示，随着美国国家安全局承包商前雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden) 向俄罗斯提出避难申请，有关其命运的僵局进一步恶化了美俄之间已显紧张的关系，奥巴马总统可能会取消原定于9月前往莫斯科会晤弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统的行程。
Canceling the meeting in Moscow would be seen as a direct slap at Mr. Putin, who is known to value such high-level visits as a validation of Russian prestige. While the White House may be using the meeting as leverage to win cooperation as it seeks the return to the United States of Mr. Snowden, who is now staying at a Moscow airport, the reconsideration also reflects a broader concern that the two countries are far apart on issues like Syria, Iran, arms control and missile defense.
普京一向重视这种高级别的访问，将其作为俄罗斯国家声望的证明，因此取消莫斯科会晤将被视为直接打向他的一记耳光。虽然白宫可能是想把这次会晤当成筹码，换取俄罗斯的合作，将目前滞留在莫斯科一个机场的斯诺登带回美国，但对已经安排好的会晤的重新考虑，也反映了一种涉及广泛的担忧：两国在叙利亚、伊朗、武器控制和导弹防御等问题上存在巨大分歧。
The conviction on Thursday of Aleksei A. Navalny, a prominent leader of the opposition to Mr. Putin, on embezzlement charges further underscored the deepening divide between the two countries as the White House pronounced itself “deeply disappointed” at what it called a trend of “suppressing dissent and civil society in Russia.” The verdict and five-year sentence came a week after the posthumous conviction of Sergei L. Magnitsky, a lawyer investigating official corruption who was arrested and died in custody.
本周四，著名的反普京运动领袖阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼 (Aleksei A. Navalny)被判犯有贪污罪，进一步深化了美俄之间的鸿沟。白宫表示对俄罗斯“镇压异见者和民间团体”的趋势“深感失望”。就在纳瓦尔尼被定罪并判处五年监禁的前一个星期，调查官员腐败问题的律师谢尔盖·L·马格尼茨基(Sergei L. Magnitsky)在死后被判有罪，他在被捕后死于狱中。
“We call on the Russian government to cease its campaign of pressure against individuals and groups seeking to expose corruption, and to ensure that the universal human rights and fundamental freedoms of all of its citizens, including the freedoms of speech and assembly, are protected and respected,” said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary.
“我们呼吁俄罗斯政府停止向揭露腐败行为的个人和团体施加压力，并确保普遍人权和所有公民的基本自由获得保护和尊重，其中也包括言论和集会自由。 ”白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)说。
The talk of human rights rang hollow to the Kremlin given the Snowden case. Mr. Putin has suggested that Washington is being hypocritical in complaining about Russian actions while seeking to prosecute a whistle-blower who exposed American surveillance programs. But Mr. Putin has also made clear that he does not want the showdown to harm ties.
因为斯诺登事件，有关人权的说教在克里姆林宫听来都是空话。普京暗示说，华盛顿一边抱怨俄罗斯发生的事情，一边试图起诉将美国监控计划公之于众的揭秘人，这种做法很虚伪。但是普京也明确表示，他不想让此次的对立事件有损两国关系。
“Bilateral relations, in my opinion, are far more important than squabbles about the activities of the secret services,” he told Russian reporters who asked Wednesday about the scheduled Moscow meeting.
周三，当俄罗斯记者问到原定于莫斯科进行的会晤的情况时，普京说：“我认为，维护双边关系远比关于情报机构行动的争执更重要。” 
The White House announced the coming meeting between Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin when the two leaders met in Northern Ireland last month. It was added as an extra stop on a trip to St. Petersburg for the annual gathering of the Group of 20 nations. But while Mr. Obama is still committed to going to St. Petersburg, officials said he is now rethinking the Moscow stop, not just because of the impasse over Mr. Snowden but because of a growing sense that the two sides cannot agree on other issues enough to justify the meeting.
上个月，奥巴马和普京在北爱尔兰开会的时候，白宫宣布两位总统将进行莫斯科会晤。这样他们就可以在去圣彼得堡参加20国集团年度峰会那段时间多见一次面。虽然奥巴马仍然会前往圣彼得堡，白宫却表示他正在重新考虑是否要去莫斯科与普京会晤，这不仅是由于涉及斯诺登事件的僵局，也因为白宫越来越明显地意识到，双方在其他问题上意见太不统一，因而进行莫斯科会晤似乎没有必要。
The White House has not publicly confirmed the prospect of canceling the Moscow meeting, but it has sent unmistakable signals that the possibility is now on the table. Asked directly on Wednesday if Mr. Obama was still going to Moscow before the G-20 meeting in St. Petersburg, Mr. Carney declined to say. “I can say that the president intends to travel to Russia for the G-20 summit,” Mr. Carney said. “I don’t have anything to add to what we’ve said in the past about that trip.”
白宫还没有公开证实可能会取消莫斯科会晤，但它发出的明确信号显示，这种可能性已经摆上了台面。周三，当被直接问及奥巴马是否会在参加圣彼得堡G20峰会之前前往莫斯科时，卡尼没有明确作答。 “我能说的是，总统打算前往俄罗斯参加G20峰会。”卡尼说。“这趟行程还是跟我们之前说过的相关情况一样，我没有什么要补充的。”
But some critics have urged Mr. Obama to go further.
但是，一些批评人士已在敦促奥巴马采取更进一步的行动。
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said that the president should push to move the G-20 meeting out of Russia altogether and that the United States should boycott the Winter Olympic Games set for 2014 in Sochi, Russia.
南卡罗来纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆 (Lindsey Graham)表示，总统应该努力让G20峰会彻底搬出俄罗斯，而且美国也应该抵制2014年在俄罗斯索契召开的冬季奥运会。
“President Obama, should you go to St. Petersburg, Russia, for the G-20 summit if they give Snowden asylum and they don’t change their policy toward Syria and continue to help Iran?” Mr. Graham said Wednesday on “The Lead With Jake Tapper” on CNN. “Should you go? My advice to you is, I wouldn’t go to St. Petersburg. I would ask for a change of venue.”
“如果他们让斯诺登避难，如果他们不改变对叙利亚的政策，并且继续给伊朗提供帮助， 奥巴马总统，你应该去俄罗斯圣彼得堡参加G20峰会吗？” 格雷厄姆周三在CNN的“The Lead With Jake Tapper”访谈节目中说：“ 你应该去吗？我给你的忠告是，换成我就不会去圣彼得堡，我会要求变更开会的地点。”
The Snowden episode has likewise harmed American relations with China after Mr. Snowden initially fled to Hong Kong and was then allowed on a plane to Moscow despite an American request for his arrest. The American consul general in Hong Kong on Thursday said the case had sowed distrust and called into question the city’s supposed legal autonomy.
斯诺登事件也同样损害了美国与中国的关系。斯诺登最初逃到香港之后，尽管美国要求逮捕他，他还是登上了前往莫斯科的飞机。上周四，香港的美国总领事表示，这个事件播下了不信任的种子，让人质疑香港本应拥有的法律自主权。
“It will take some time to repair the damage there,” Stephen M. Young, the consul general, who will leave his post by the end of the month, said in departing remarks. “We were frankly disappointed by the way our colleagues here in Hong Kong” handled the situation.
“这种损害需要一些时间才能修复。”将在本月底卸任的总领事杨苏棣(Stephen M. Young) 在告别致辞中说。“坦率地讲，香港的同行处理此事的方式让我们失望。”
Mr. Obama announced in a speech last month in Berlin that he wanted to negotiate another round of arms cuts with Russia, cutting each side’s stock of deployed strategic warheads by another third beyond the New Start treaty signed in his first term. The administration hoped to advance that initiative at the meeting in Moscow by framing future discussions over reductions.
上个月，奥巴马在柏林发表的一次讲话中宣布，他希望能与俄罗斯进行新一轮削减武器的谈判。他在第一次总统任期中签署了《削减和限制进攻性战略武器条约》（Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty，简称New START），现在他希望在这个基础上，美俄双方把战略核弹头的存量再削减三分之一。美国政府希望在莫斯科会晤时推进这一倡议，为未来的核武削减讨论搭建起框架。
But Mr. Putin has publicly linked further reductions to a range of other strategic issues, including American plans to build a missile defense system in Europe, and has insisted on bringing in other nuclear powers. Privately, American officials said they have received no real response to Mr. Obama’s overture, or any other indication of any policy breakthrough to justify the Moscow meeting.
但普京已经公开表示，进一步削减核武的行动应该跟其他战略问题挂钩，比如美国在欧洲建立导弹防御系统的计划，普京还坚持这个倡议应该有其他核大国参与。美国官员私下表示，对于奥巴马的提议，他们还没有真正收到俄罗斯的任何回应，也没有看到俄罗斯在政策上有任何突破的迹象，来显示有必要进行莫斯科会晤。
Some Republicans in Washington expressed concern on Wednesday at reports that Russia was violating its obligations under the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty of 1987. Last month, Mr. Putin publicly questioned the utility of that treaty.
有报道称，俄罗斯违反了1987年签订的《中程核力量条约》(Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty )的规定。本周三，华盛顿的一些共和党人对此事表示了关注。上个月，普京曾公开对该条约的实用性表示质疑。
Angela E. Stent, a former national intelligence officer on Russia now at Georgetown University, said she could not recall another time since the cold war that an American president had called off a meeting that was already scheduled. “If they do cancel that part of the summit, that’s unprecedented since the collapse of the Soviet Union from the American side,” she said. “And it raises the question for the Obama administration — Russia’s not going to be a high priority for the rest of the term.”
安吉拉·斯坦特(Angela E. Stent)曾是俄罗斯事务方面的美国国家情报官员，目前在乔治城大学(Georgetown University)工作，她说，自冷战之后，美国总统取消已经安排的会晤的情况似乎还没有发生过。 “如果他们真地取消了本次峰会的这个部分，那就开创了自从苏联解体以后，美国主动取消会晤的先例。”她说。 “这给奥巴马政府带来了一个问题 —— 在总统任期结束前，俄罗斯不会获得优先考虑了。”