MIAMI — For rent and utilities to be considered affordable, they are supposed to take up no more than 30 percent of a household’s income. But that goal is increasingly unattainable for middle-income families as a tightening market pushes up rents ever faster, outrunning modest rises in pay.
迈阿密——房租加公用事业费用若可负担，占家庭收入的比例不应超过30%。然而，对中等收入家庭而言，这一目标越来越难以实现，因为趋紧的市场以不断加快的速率推升房租上涨，跑赢了薪资的小幅增长。
The strain is not limited to the usual high-cost cities like New York and San Francisco. An analysis for The New York Times by Zillow, the real estate website, found 90 cities where the median rent — not including utilities — was more than 30 percent of the median gross income.
这种压力并不仅限于纽约和旧金山这样的传统高消费都市。房地产网站Zillow受《纽约时报》委托进行的一项研究发现，90座城市的房租——不包括公用事业费——中位数超出了总收入中位数的30%。
In Chicago, rent as a percentage of income has risen to 31 percent, from a historical average of 21 percent. In New Orleans, it has more than doubled, to 35 percent from 14 percent. Zillow calculated the historical average using data from 1985 to 2000.
在芝加哥，房租收入比已从历史均值21%增加到31%。在新奥尔良，这一数据则已翻番有余，从14%跃升至35%。Zillow计算历史均值时采用的是1985年到2000年的数据。
Nationally, half of all renters are now spending more than 30 percent of their income on housing, according to a comprehensive Harvard study, up from 38 percent of renters in 2000. In December, Housing Secretary Shaun Donovan declared “the worst rental affordability crisis that this country has ever known.”
哈佛进行的一项综合研究指出，全美一半的租客目前将30%以上的收入用于住房，而2000年的这一比例为38%。去年12月，住房部长肖恩·多诺万(Shaun Donovan)宣布“我国进入了史上最严重的房租负担危机”。
Apartment vacancy rates have dropped so low that forecasters at Capital Economics, a research firm, said rents could rise, on average, as much as 4 percent this year, compared with 2.8 percent last year. But rents are rising faster than that in many cities even as overall inflation is running at little more than 1 percent annually.
房屋空置率已降至极低的水平，因而调研公司凯投宏观(Capital Economics)预测，今年房租可能会平均上涨4%之多，而去年的数据为2.8%。不过，许多城市的房租涨得比这还快，尽管整体年通胀率维持在刚过1%的水平。
One of the most expensive cities for renters is Miami, where rents, on average, consume 43 percent of the typical household income, up from a historical average of just over a quarter.
迈阿密是租房最贵的城市之一，房租平均占到普通家庭收入的43%，而历史均值仅略高于25%。
Stella Santamaria, a divorced 40-year-old math teacher, has been looking for an apartment in Miami for more than six months. “We’re kind of sick of talking about it,” she said of herself and fellow teachers in the same boat. “It’s like, are you still living with your mom? Yeah, are you? Yeah.” After 11 years as a teacher, Ms. Santamaria makes $41,000, considerably less than the city’s median income, which is $48,000, according to Zillow.
40岁的离婚数学教师斯泰拉·圣玛丽亚(Stella Santamaria)在迈阿密找出租公寓的时间已经超过了六个月。谈到本人及同病相怜的教师同事时，她说，“我们有点烦谈这件事了。都是这么对话的：你还跟妈妈住一起呢？对啊，你呢？可不是吗。”教了11年书的圣玛丽亚年收入为4.1万美元（约合25.5万元人民币），比Zillow统计的迈阿密收入中位数4.8万美元低了不少。
Even dual-income professional couples are being priced out of the walkable urban-core neighborhoods where many of them want to live. Stuart Kennedy, 29, a senior program officer at a nonprofit group, said he and his girlfriend, a lawyer, will be losing their $2,300 a month rental house in Buena Vista in June. Since they found the place a year ago, rents in the area have increased sharply.
就连有双份收入的情侣夫妻档专业人士也负担不起适宜步行的都市中心社区，虽然他们中有很多人希望住在这种地方。29岁的斯图尔特·肯尼迪(Stuart Kennedy)在一家非营利机构任高级项目管理人员。他说，自己和律师女友6月份就要失去位于布埃纳维斯塔的月租2300美元的房子。自打他们一年前找到这个地方之后，该地段的房租节节攀升。
“If you go by a third of your income, that formula, even with how comfortable our incomes are, it looks like it’s going to be impossible,” Mr. Kennedy said. Part of the reason for the squeeze on renters is simple demand — between 2007 and 2013 the United States added, on net, about 6.2 million tenants, compared with 208,000 homeowners, said Stan Humphries, the chief economist of Zillow.
“如果参照三分之一收入的公式来看，就算我们的收入挺不错，看起来也是没办法做到的，”肯尼迪说。租户承压的部分原因是简单的需求问题。Zillow的首席经济师斯坦·汉弗莱斯(Stan Humphries)表示，2007年到2013年间，美国的租房人数净增加了620万，相比之下，拥有私房的人数仅提高了20.8万。
For many middle- and lower-income people, high rents choke spending on other goods and services, impeding the economic recovery. Low-income families that spend more than half their income on housing spend about a third less on food, 50 percent less on clothing, and 80 percent less on medical care compared with low-income families with affordable rents, according to a new report by the National Low Income Housing Coalition. And renters amass less wealth, even non-housing wealth, than homeowners do.
对许多中低收入人群而言，高房租严重制约了他们在其他产品与服务上的花销，从而阻碍了经济复苏。根据全国低收入住房联盟(National Low Income Housing Coalition)发表的新报告，比起房租适宜的低收入家庭，把一半以上的收入花在住房上的此类家庭在食物上的开销要低三分之一左右，在服装上低50%，在医疗上低80%。而且，租客比私房拥有者累积的财富也更少，即使是在非房产类财富上。
The problem threatens to get worse before it gets better. Apartment builders have raced to build more units, creating a wave of supply that is beginning to crest. Miami added 2,500 rental apartments last year, and 7,500 more are expected in the next two years, according to the CoStar Group, a real estate research firm.
这一问题可能会在好转之前先变得更糟。公寓开发商正竞相建造更多套房子，掀起了一阵接近巅峰的供应潮。房地产调研企业CoStar集团(CoStar Group)称，迈阿密去年新增了2500套出租公寓，预计未来两年还会再增加7500套。
But demand has shown no signs of slackening. And as long as there are plenty of upper-income renters looking for apartments, there is little incentive to build anything other than expensive units. As a result, there are in effect two separate rental markets that are so far apart in price that they have little impact on each other. In one extreme case, a glut of new luxury apartments in Washington has pushed high-end rents down, even while midrange rents have continued to rise.
然而，需求端并未显露疲态。只要有众多高收入租客在寻找住房，就不会有什么动力来兴建昂贵公寓之外的住房。结果，实际产生了两个独立的租房市场，价格上相去甚远，互不相干。有个极端的例子是，华盛顿的新建豪华公寓供大于求，促使高端出租房的价格下降，尽管中档房源的租金持续上升。
“Increasing the supply is not going to increase the number of affordable units; that is a complete and utter fallacy,” said Jaimie Ross, the president of the Florida Housing Coalition. “People say if there really was a great need, the market would provide it; the market would correct itself. Well, the market has never corrected itself and it’s only getting worse.”
“增加供应并不会提高租金适宜住房的数量；那是一种彻头彻尾的谬论，”佛罗里达住房联盟(Florida Housing Coalition)的负责人杰米·罗斯(Jaimie Ross)说。“人们说，如果真的有很大的需求，市场就会供应；市场就会自我调节。不过，市场从未自我调节，只会越变越糟。”
Cities have been left to address the problem on their own, with some granting exceptions to their own zoning laws to allow for things like micro-apartments. Miami has allowed some variances to its urban plan for projects like Brickell View Terrace, which will have 176 units in a prime location near a Metrorail station. Ninety of the units will be affordable for people making 60 percent of the median income, 10 for people making less, and the rest will be market rate.
各大城市只得自行应对这一问题。一些地方允许存在不符合行政区划法规的例外，让微型公寓等成为可能。迈阿密则允许城市规划为布里克尔观景大楼(Brickell View Terrace)等项目留下一定的灵活度。该项目位于一座轨道交通站附近的黄金地段，共有176套公寓。其中90套将是为收入为中位数60%的人准备的经济适用房，10套为收入更少的人准备，其余则采用市场价。
But a seemingly insatiable demand for luxury condos in Miami, created in part by wealthy Latin Americans, has caused land prices to soar, making affordable housing projects harder to build anywhere close to downtown. Moving farther out is cheaper, but the cost savings on housing can be quickly wiped out by transportation costs. A 2012 study by the Center for Housing Policy found that Miami was the most expensive metropolitan area in the country when housing and transportation costs were combined.
不过，由于迈阿密对豪华公寓的需求——部分由富裕的拉丁裔美国人拉动——似乎永无止境，这使得地价飞涨，经济适用房项目更难以建在任何离市中心较近的地方。搬到更远的地方的确更便宜，但在住房上省下的钱或许很快就会被交通成本抵消。住房政策中心(Center for Housing Policy)2012年进行的一项研究发现，当把住房与交通成本加起来的时候，迈阿密是全美开销最大的都市区。