WASHINGTON — It was the first major piece of legislation that President Trump signed into law, and buried on page 734 was one sentence that brought a potential benefit to the president’s extended family: renewal of a program offering permanent residence in the United States to affluent foreigners investing money in real estate projects here.
华盛顿——这是特朗普总统签署生效的第一个主要法案，里面有句话深埋在法案第734页，它给总统的三亲六故带来了潜在的利益：延长一个为在美国房地产项目上投资的富有外国人提供永久居留权的计划。
Just hours after the appropriations measure was signed on Friday, the company run until January by Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and top adviser, Jared Kushner, was urging wealthy Chinese in Beijing to consider investing $500,000 each in a pair of Jersey City, N.J., luxury apartment towers the family-owned Kushner Companies plans to build. Mr. Kushner was even cited at a marketing presentation by his sister Nicole Meyer, who was on her way to China even before the bill was signed. The project “means a lot to me and my entire family,” she told the prospective investors.
周五，这项拨款法案签署仅数小时后，直到今年1月仍由特朗普的女婿兼高级顾问贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)掌舵的公司就开始在北京敦促中国富人投资，每人50万美元，对象是库什纳家族经营的几家公司计划在新泽西州泽西城修建的两栋豪华公寓楼。库什纳的妹妹尼科尔·迈耶(Nicole Meyer)甚至在市场推广会上提起库什纳。迈耶在该法案签署之前就已动身前往中国。她向潜在的投资者表示，这个项目“对我和我们家族意义重大”。
The sequence of events offers one of the most explicit examples to date of the peril of the Trump and Kushner families maintaining close ties to their business interests and creates an impression they stand to profit off Mr. Trump’s presence in the White House. It also illustrates the problems of the so-called EB-5 visa program that prominent Republican and Democratic members of Congress want changed.
这一系列事件是迄今为止最明显的一个例子，表明特朗普和库什纳家族与其商业利益保持密切联系的危害性，而且它们给人造成一种印象：亲属们利用特朗普身在白宫的事实渔利。这也暴露出人们所说的EB-5签证计划的问题，共和党和民主党的一些主要议员想要改变这个计划。
“It is just one more dilemma that a family with vast commercial interest has when relatives are in the federal government, particularly the White House,” said Michael H. Cardozo, who served as a deputy White House counsel in the Carter administration, which struggled with its own controversies related to the president’s brother, Billy Carter, and his work on behalf of an American company seeking to get into the oil industry in Libya. “The actions of relatives can come back and bite those serving those in the government.”
“这只是一个拥有巨大商业利益的家族有亲属在联邦政府尤其是白宫任职时遇到的又一个困境，”曾在卡特政府担任白宫法务副顾问的迈克尔·H·卡多佐(Michael H. Cardozo)说。卡特政府也因总统的弟弟比利·卡特(Billy Carter)代表一家美国公司寻求进入利比亚石油产业而陷入争议。“亲戚们的行为可能会反过来伤害那些在政府任职的人。”
Bipartisan critics in Washington say they want to revamp the visa program because it is often abused. It supports high-end luxury projects, like the Kushner family deal, instead of promoting job creation in rural America or distressed urban areas, as it was intended. It has also been criticized by federal regulators for insufficient safeguards against illicit money coming into the United States.
华盛顿的两党批评人士表示，他们想修改这个签证计划，因为它经常被滥用。它支持高档豪华项目，比如库什纳家族的那个项目，却未能实现它的初衷，为美国乡村或城市贫困地区创造就业机会。联邦监管机构也批评该项目缺乏足够的保障措施，无法避免非法资金流入美国。
There is no assertion that Mr. Kushner broke any conflict-of-interest rule; but the law does not prevent his relatives from attempting to exploit those ties to benefit the family business.
目前无人在说库什纳违反了利益冲突规则，但这项法律并不阻止其亲属利用这些关系为家族企业谋利。
Mr. Kushner’s portfolio includes a central role on China policy. That role has heightened the Kushner family name in a nation accounting for more than 80 percent of the EB-5 visas issued. Wealthy Chinese see the program as an easy way to legally move to the United States.
在库什纳经手的诸多事宜中，就包括其在中国政策方面所扮演的重要角色。这提高了库什纳家族在中国的名气，而80%以上的EB-5签证获得者来自中国。富裕的中国人将该计划视为合法移民美国的一个简便方法。
In fact, Kushner Companies — when Mr. Kushner was still at the helm — had received $50 million in EB-5 financing for a separate New Jersey project, a Trump-branded luxury high-rise tower in Jersey City that opened late last year.
事实上，在库什纳依然掌舵时，他的公司在新泽西州的另一个项目上通过EB-5获得了5000万美元的融资，那就是去年年底开盘的泽西市特朗普品牌高层豪华大楼。
On Monday, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, called the visa program “a stark conflict of interest for the Trump White House.”
周一，加利福尼亚州民主党参议员黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)称该签证计划“对特朗普政府来说具有明显的利益冲突”。
After a surge in attention to the topic over the weekend, a spokesman for Mr. Trump said on Monday that the president also endorses changes to the visa program, including perhaps increasing the price foreigners must pay to get the special immigration status. A White House statement said the administration “is evaluating wholesale reform of the EB-5 program to ensure that the program is used as intended and that investment is being spread to all areas of the country.”
周末，民众对该话题的关注骤涨。周一，特朗普的一名发言人表示，总统也赞成修改该签证计划，可能包括提高外国人获得特殊移民身份必须支付的费用。白宫的一项声明称，政府“正在考虑对EB-5计划进行全面改革，以确保该计划能实现它的本意，保证投资散布到全国各地”。
The statement also said that Mr. Kushner, who is married to Ivanka Trump, has recused himself from EB-5 related matters: “Jared takes the ethics rules very seriously and would never compromise himself or the administration.” In a statement from Kushner Companies, Mr. Kushner’s sister said it was not her intent to mention her brother as a way to lure investors.
该声明还表示，库什纳，也就是伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)的丈夫,已经回避与EB-5相关的事务：“贾里德非常认真地遵守道德准则，永远不会让自己或本政府的声誉受损。”在库什纳公司的一项声明中，库什纳的妹妹表示，她并非有意为吸引投资者而提及自己的哥哥。
Other family members of presidents have created stirs in past decades — including Neil Bush, the son of President George Bush — as they have engaged in outside business ventures that intersected with the federal government. Hillary Clinton’s brother Anthony Rodham was once cited for inappropriate appeals to government officials about a grant through this very same visa program.
在过去几十年里，其他一些总统的家庭成员也因参与与联邦政府相关的外部公司项目而引发争议，包括乔治·布什总统(George Bush)的儿子尼尔·布什(Neil Bush)。据说，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的弟弟安东尼·罗德姆(Anthony Rodham)曾因为想通过同一个签证计划获得资金而不恰当地请求政府官员帮忙。
But the matters involving Mr. Kushner, the White House and Kushner Companies aredifferent. None of those previous presidential relatives took jobs in the White House while simultaneously benefiting from a multibillion dollar business with international partners, who also stand to benefit from federal programs.
不过，库什纳与白宫及库什纳公司所涉事宜不同寻常。之前那些总统的亲属都没有在白宫任职的同时从价值数十亿美元的公司获利。而该公司的国际合作伙伴也受益于联邦政府的计划。
Although Mr. Kushner has shed stakes in some of the company’s investments, he has retained most of his interest, as the main beneficiary of a series of trusts invested in the firm’s various projects. His stake, along with some other investments, is worth as much as $600 million, and possibly much more, according to a government ethics disclosure form made public by Mr. Kushner in March. But Kushner Companies has declined to make public a list of its partners.
尽管库什纳已经出手了在该公司部分投资中的股份，但他保留了大部分收益，他是在该公司多个项目上投资的一系列信托机构的主要受益者。根据库什纳今年3月公布的一份政府道德披露报表，他的股份和其他一些投资的总价值高达6亿美元，甚至可能比这个数字多出许多。但是，库什纳的公司拒绝公布它的合作伙伴名单。
When it was created in 1990, the EB-5 visa program was intended to provide a new source of financing for projects in underserved areas, defined as places with high unemployment. But there are no federal standards for defining such neighborhoods. And developers often provide gerrymandered maps to qualify under the program.
EB-5签证计划1990年推出时旨在为开发程度较低地区的项目提供新的融资来源，那些地区被定义为高失业率地区。但联邦政府没有给出界定这种社区的标准。开发商经常提供篡改过的地图，以符合该计划的资格。
The Kushner project in Jersey City “is a textbook example of the abuses we have seen in the last six or seven years,” said Shae Armstrong, a Dallas lawyer who has joined with members of Congress, including Senators Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Ms. Feinstein, to call for changes in the
达拉斯律师谢伊·阿姆斯特朗(Shae Armstrong)表示，泽西市的库什纳项目“是过去六七年来我们看到的此类滥用行为的典型案例”。他和一些国会议员共同呼吁改变该签证计划，包括艾奥瓦州共和党参议员查尔斯·E·格拉斯利(Charles E. Grassley)和范斯坦等。
That part of Jersey City, less than three miles from Manhattan, is hardly an economically depressed area, and a luxury apartment building is going to create few permanent jobs. “And it is why other towns in rural America are not getting EB-5 money,” he said.
泽西市的这个区域离曼哈顿不到三英里，算不上经济萧条地区，而且一个豪华的公寓大楼也创造不出多少永久性工作。“这就是美国乡村地区的其他城镇无法获得EB-5融资的原因，”他说。
Indeed, in the Beijing presentation delivered by Mr. Kushner’s sister, the firm cited the high household income of the majority of the residents — between $100,000 and $200,000 — in the Trump-branded building that has already received EB-5 financing.
事实上，在库什纳妹妹主持的北京发布会上，该公司指出，已获得EB-5融资的特朗普品牌大楼的大部分居民都有很高的家庭年收入——在10万至20万美元之间。
The $1 billion Kushner project at the center of the current controversy is a set of high-rise towers — including 1,730 apartments and 89,000 square feet of retail space. The company is seeking $150 million through the EB-5 program.
目前处于争议中心的价值10亿美元的库什纳项目是两座高层建筑，包括1730套公寓和8.9万平方英尺的商铺面积。该公司正努力通过EB-5计划获得1.5亿美元的融资。
Traditional lenders can charge interest of between 12 and 18 percent, said Gary Friedland, a professor at New York University who has written extensively about the program. But EB-5 loans can wind up costing developers as little as 4 percent, he said.
纽约大学(New York University)教授加里·弗里德兰(Gary Friedland)写过很多关于该计划的文章。他表示，传统贷款机构可能会收取12%至18%的利息，而通过EB-5计划，开发商可能只需支付4%的利息。
“The immigrant investor’s primary purpose is to secure a visa, so they accept minimal interest, as low as half a percent,” said Mr. Friedland.
“移民投资者的主要目的是获得签证，所以他们愿意接受极低的利息，可能低至0.5%，”弗里德兰说。
For developers, said Steve Yale-Loehr, an immigration law professor at Cornell University, the appeal of EB-5 can be summed up in two words: “Cheap money.”
康奈尔大学(Cornell University)移民法教授史蒂夫·耶尔-勒尔(Steve Yale-Loehr)表示，对于开发商来说，EB-5的吸引力可以用一个词来概括：“低息贷款。”