When I’ve written recently about food stamp recipients, the uninsured and prison inmates, I’ve had plenty of pushback from readers.
最近我写了食品券领取者、未投保者和服刑人员的事，得到很多读者的负面评价。
A reader named Keith reflected a coruscating chorus when he protested: “If kids are going hungry, it is because of the parents not upholding their responsibilities.”
一位名叫基思(Keith)的读者用光芒四射的一句箴言向我抗议：“如果孩子吃不饱，那是因为父母没有尽到责任。”
A reader in Washington bluntly suggested taking children from parents and putting them in orphanages.
一位华盛顿的读者直截了当地建议把孩子从父母身边带走，送到孤儿院去。
Jim asked: “Why should I have to subsidize someone else’s child? How about personal responsibility? If you procreate, you provide.”
吉姆(Jim)问道：“我为什么要去补贴别人的孩子？个人责任哪去了？谁生的谁养。”
After a recent column about an uninsured man who delayed seeing a doctor about a condition that turned out to be colon cancer, many readers noted that he is a lifelong smoker and said he had it coming.
最近的一篇专栏文章讲到一位没有保险的人，他在身体出现状况后没有及时就医，结果得知是结肠癌，很多读者注意到他一辈子都是个烟民，说这个下场是自找的。
“What kind of a lame brain doofus is this guy?” one reader asked. “And like it’s our fault that he couldn’t afford to have himself checked out?”
“这种呆瓜蠢货算怎么回事？”一位读者问道。“他没钱给自己看病怎么成了我们的问题了？”
Such scorn seems widespread, based on the comments I get on my blog and Facebook page — as well as on polling and on government policy. At root, these attitudes reflect a profound lack of empathy.
从我在博客和Facebook页面上得到的评论来看，这样的冷言冷语是挺普遍的——从民意调查和政府的政策上也有体现。从根本上说，这种态度反映出一种同情心的严重缺失。
A Princeton University psychology professor, Susan Fiske, has found that when research subjects hooked up to neuro-imaging machines look at photos of the poor and homeless, their brains often react as if they are seeing things, not people. Her analysis suggests that Americans sometimes react to poverty not with sympathy but with revulsion.
普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)心理学教授苏珊·菲斯克(Susan Fiske)发现，当她给研究对象接上神经成像仪器，然后给他们看穷人和无家可归者的照片时，他们的大脑反应往往显示出他们是在看东西，而不是看到人。她的分析说明美国人有时候对贫穷不是抱以同情，而是感到厌恶。
So, on Thanksgiving, maybe we need a conversation about empathy for fellow humans in distress.
所以，感恩节之际，也许我们得谈一谈对苦难同胞的同情心。
Let’s acknowledge one point made by these modern social Darwinists: It’s true that some people in poverty do suffer in part because of irresponsible behavior, from abuse of narcotics to criminality to laziness at school or jobs. But remember also that many of today’s poor are small children who have done nothing wrong.
谈到这些现代社会达尔文主义者的言论，有一点我们得承认：在贫困者当中，有些人的处境的确跟他们不负责任的行为有一定关系，从沉溺毒品、犯罪到学习或工作中的懒惰都是。但别忘了，如今很多的穷人是小孩子，他们可没做错什么。
Some 45 percent of food stamp recipients are children, for example. Do we really think that kids should go hungry if they have criminal parents? Should a little boy not get a curved spine treated properly because his dad is a deadbeat? Should a girl not be able to go to preschool because her mom is an alcoholic?
例如食品券领取者中有45%是儿童。我们真的希望这些孩子挨饿，就因为他们的父母是罪犯？一个脊柱弯曲的小男孩，因为父亲游手好闲所以不应该得到妥善医治？因为母亲是个酗酒者，所以她的女儿不能上幼儿园？
Successful people tend to see in themselves a simple narrative: You study hard, work long hours, obey the law and create your own good fortune. Well, yes. That often works fine in middle-class families.
成功人士倾向于选择一种单一叙事方法看待问题：你努力学习，玩命工作，遵纪守法，创下自己的家业。是的，这个想法在中产阶级家庭里是适用的。
But if you’re conceived by a teenage mom who drinks during pregnancy so that you’re born with fetal alcohol effects, the odds are overwhelmingly stacked against you from before birth. You’ll perhaps never get traction.
但如果你是一个妊娠期间会喝酒的少女妈妈生的，那么你天生就有胎儿酒精效应，你的运气打从娘胎里就已经非常差了。你可能永远也不会是个受欢迎的人。
Likewise, if you’re born in a high-poverty neighborhood to a stressed-out single mom who doesn’t read to you and slaps you more than hugs you, you’ll face a huge handicap. One University of Minnesota study found that the kind of parenting a child receives in the first 3.5 years is a better predictor of high school graduation than I.Q.
同样的，如果你出生在一个极其贫困的社区，生你的是一个焦虑不安的单亲妈妈，不会给你读故事，打你的时候比抱你多，你会面临极大的障碍。明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)的一项研究发现，要预见一个人能不能读到高中毕业，此人在出生后前3.5年得到什么样的父母照料，比智商更能说明问题。
All this helps explain why one of the strongest determinants of ending up poor is being born poor. As Warren Buffett puts it, our life outcomes often depend on the “ovarian lottery.” Sure, some people transcend their circumstances, but it’s callous for those born on second or third base to denounce the poor for failing to hit home runs.
所有这些都解释了为什么导致一生潦倒的其中一个决定性因素是生来贫困。正如沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)所说，我们的人生成败取决于“卵巢彩票”。当然，有的人能冲破他们自身的境遇桎梏，但如果那些生下来就在二垒甚至三垒上的人要嘲笑穷人没能力打出本垒打，那就太冷血了。
John Rawls, the brilliant 20th-century philosopher, argued for a society that seems fair if we consider it from behind a “veil of ignorance” — meaning we don’t know whether we’ll be born to an investment banker or a teenage mom, in a leafy suburb or a gang-ridden inner city, healthy or disabled, smart or struggling, privileged or disadvantaged. That’s a shrewd analytical tool — and who among us would argue for food stamp cuts if we thought we might be among the hungry children?
二十世纪杰出的哲学家约翰·罗尔斯(John Rawls)曾提出，如果我们在眼前蒙上一层“无知之幕”再去思考问题，那么这个社会就显得公平了——意思是说，我们不知道我们长大以后会变成投行家还是未成年妈妈，住在绿树成荫的郊区还是匪徒出没的城里，健康还是残疾，聪明还是迟钝，尊贵还是卑微。这是一个很精妙的分析手段——如果我们认为自己可能就是某个饥饿的儿童，谁还会去提出削减食品券呢？
As we celebrate Thanksgiving, let’s remember that the difference between being surrounded by a loving family or being homeless on the street is determined not just by our own level of virtue or self-discipline, but also by an inextricable mix of luck, biography, brain chemistry and genetics.
在我们欢度感恩节的时候，不要忘了，你是和亲爱的家人团聚在一起，还是孤身一人在街上，不只是取决于我们自己的德行或自律，还取决于运气、生平、脑化学和基因的环环相扣。
For those who are well-off, it may be easier to castigate the irresponsibility of the poor than to recognize that success in life is a reflection not only of enterprise and willpower, but also of random chance and early upbringing.
一个条件优越的人可能会比较容易去斥责穷人的不负责任，而不会认识到成功的人生反映出的不只是事业和意志，也是一些机缘巧合与早期抚育的结果。
Low-income Americans, who actually encounter the needy in daily life, understand this complexity and respond with empathy. Researchers say that’s why the poorest 20 percent of Americans donate more to charity, as a fraction of their incomes, than the richest 20 percent. Meet those who need help, especially children, and you become less judgmental and more compassionate.
低收入的美国人，那些真的会在日常生活中和穷人打交道的人，能理解这种复杂性，他们的反应是同情。研究人员说，这就是为什么最穷的那20%的美国人，会在其收入比例上，做出比最富的那20%更多的慈善捐助。去认识一下那些需要帮助的人，尤其是孩子，你会少一些成见，多一些怜悯。
And compassion isn’t a sign of weakness, but a mark of civilization.
怜悯并非软弱的象征，而是文明的标志。