WASHINGTON — Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary, is resigning, ending a stormy five-year tenure marred by the disastrous rollout of President Obama’s signature legislative achievement, the Affordable Care Act.
华盛顿——卫生和公众服务部长凯瑟琳·西贝利厄斯(Kathleen Sebelius)辞职，结束了她事件多发的五年任期。她的任期因奥巴马总统的标志性立法成就《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的灾难性首秀而蒙上了污点。
Mr. Obama accepted Ms. Sebelius’s resignation this week, and on Friday morning, he will nominate Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, to replace her, officials said.
官员称，奥巴马本周接受了西贝利厄斯的辞职，并将于周五上午提名管理与预算办公室(Office of Management and Budget) 主任西尔维亚·马修斯·伯维尔( Sylvia Mathews Burwell)接替她。
The departure comes as the Obama administration tries to move beyond its early stumbles in carrying out the law, convince a still-skeptical public of its lasting benefits, and help Democratic incumbents, who face blistering attack ads after supporting the legislation, survive the midterm elections this fall.
西贝利厄斯辞职之际，奥巴马政府正在努力跨越该法案实施过程中的初期失误，让依然心存怀疑的公众相信法案带来的持久益处，并帮助民主党在职者挺过今年秋天的中期选举。因为支持该法案，民主党在职者饱受攻击。
Officials said Ms. Sebelius, 65, made the decision to resign and was not forced out. But the frustration at the White House over her performance had become increasingly clear, as administration aides worried that the crippling problems at HealthCare.gov, the website set up to enroll Americans in insurance exchanges, would result in lasting damage to the president’s legacy.
官员称，65岁的西贝利厄斯是自己决定辞职的，并非被迫出局。不过，白宫对她表现的失望情绪已经越来越明显，奥巴马政府的一些助手担心，为了让美国人加入保险交易所而设立的医改网站(HealthCare.gov)出现的严重问题可能会导致总统的这项政绩受到永久性影响。
Even last week, as Mr. Obama triumphantly announced that enrollments in the exchanges had exceeded seven million, she did not appear next to him for the news conference in the Rose Garden.
上周，奥巴马在玫瑰园的新闻发布会上洋洋得意地宣布加入交易所的人数超过了七百万，即便是在那个时候，西贝利厄斯也没有出现在他的身边。
The president is hoping that Ms. Burwell, 48, a Harvard- and Oxford-educated West Virginia native with a background in economic policy, will bring an intense focus and management acumen to the department. The budget office, which she has overseen since April of last year, is deeply involved in developing and carrying out health care policy.
总统希望48岁的伯维尔能给卫生和公众服务部带来大量关注和管理智慧。来自西弗吉尼亚州的伯维尔曾就读于哈佛大学和牛津大学，并有经济政策背景。伯维尔自去年4月开始掌管管理与预算办公室，该办公室深度参与了医改政策的制定和实施。
“The president wants to make sure we have a proven manager and relentless implementer in the job over there, which is why he is going to nominate Sylvia,” said Denis R. McDonough, the White House chief of staff.
“总统希望确保把这项工作交给一名接受过考验的管理者，一名坚持不懈的执行者，这正是他打算提名伯维尔的原因，”白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R.McDonough)说。
Last month, Ms. Sebelius approached Mr. Obama and began a series of conversations about her future, Mr. McDonough said. The secretary told the president that the March 31 deadline for sign-ups under the health care law — and rising enrollment numbers — provided an opportunity for change, and that he would be best served by someone who was not the target of so much political ire, Mr. McDonough said.
麦克多诺表示，西贝利厄斯上月找到奥巴马，开始了一系列有关她未来的谈话。麦克多诺说，西贝利厄斯告诉总统，医改法案规定的3月31日注册截止日期——以及不断增加的注册人数——提供了一个改变的机会，并且表示，总统最好找一个没有招致这么多政治愤怒的人来承担这项工作。
“What was clear is that she thought that it was time to transition the leadership to somebody else,” he said. “She’s made clear in other comments publicly that she recognizes that she takes a lot of the incoming. She does hope — all of us hope — that we can get beyond the partisan sniping.”
他说，“有一点相当清楚，也就是说，她认为把自己的领导权移交别人的时候已经到了。她在其他发言中曾公开地明确表示，她意识到自己成了众矢之的。她确实希望——我们大家都希望——我们能超越党派纷争。”
The resignation is a low point in what had been a remarkable career for Ms. Sebelius, who as governor of Kansas was named by Time magazine as one of the five best governors in the country and was even mentioned as a possible running mate for Mr. Obama in 2008. The two had bonded when Ms. Sebelius endorsed his presidential bid early in 2008, becoming one of the highest-profile Democratic women to back him over Hillary Rodham Clinton, and helping him deliver a big win in the Kansas caucus.
辞职事件是西贝利厄斯卓越职业生涯的一个低谷。担任堪萨斯州州长期间，她曾被《时代》(Time)杂志列为全美排名前五位的最佳州长之一，2008年，甚至有人将她列为奥巴马竞选伙伴的可能选择。早在2008年初，二人就走到了一起，当时西贝利厄斯对奥巴马竞选总统给予了支持，由此成为了支持奥巴马而非希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)参选总统的风头最劲的民主党女性之一，并且帮助奥巴马在堪萨斯州的党内初选中大获全胜。
White House officials were quick to point out the many successes during Ms. Sebelius’s tenure: the end to pre-existing conditions as a bar to insurance, the ability for young people to stay on their parents’ insurance, and the reduction in the growth of health care costs. In addition, Ms. Sebelius helped push through mental health parity in insurance plans and worked with the Department of Education to promote early childhood education.
白宫官员迫不及待地指出了西贝利厄斯任期内的许多成就：她终结了禁止已有健康问题的人参保的政策，维护了青少年继续受父母医疗保险庇护的资格，削减了不断增长的医疗成本。不仅如此，西贝利厄斯还促使医保计划纳入了精神卫生平等条款，并且和教育部合作推动了幼儿教育的发展。