The National Security Agency’s dominant role as the nation’s spy warehouse has spurred frequent tensions and turf fights with other federal intelligence agencies that want to use its surveillance tools for their own investigations, officials say.
官员们表示，国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）作为美国间谍集散中心而占有重要地位，但它也因此与其他想要使用NSA监视工具协助自己调查的联邦情报机构发生了频繁的冲突与资源之争。
Agencies working to curb drug trafficking, cyberattacks, money laundering, counterfeiting and even copyright infringement complain that their attempts to exploit the security agency’s vast resources have often been turned down because their own investigations are not considered a high enough priority, current and former government officials say.
现任和前任政府官员表示，那些致力于遏制毒品走私、网络攻击、洗钱、造假，乃至版权侵权的机构抱怨说，它们在尝试利用国家安全局的庞大资源时常遭拒绝，因为它们的调查常被认为不具备足够高的优先级别。
Intelligence officials say they have been careful to limit the use of the security agency’s troves of data and eavesdropping spyware for fear they could be misused in ways that violate Americans’ privacy rights.
情报官员称，他们一直以来小心限制使用国家安全局的大量数据和窃听工具，担心这些资源可能会以不恰当的方式被使用，侵犯到美国人的隐私权。
The recent disclosures of agency activities by its former contractor Edward J. Snowden have led to widespread criticism that its surveillance operations go too far and have prompted lawmakers in Washington to talk of reining them in. But out of public view, the intelligence community has been agitated in recent years for the opposite reason: frustrated officials outside the security agency say the spy tools are not used widely enough.
前NSA承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)近期对该机构活动的披露，已经招致了各界对NSA的批评，认为它的监视活动越了界，也促使华盛顿议员们开始探讨，如何对它加以限制。但在公众视野之外，情报界近几年却因为完全相反的原因而感到不满：NSA之外的官员们十分沮丧，他们认为这家情报机构的间谍工具运用得远不够广泛。
“It’s a very common complaint about N.S.A.,” said Timothy H. Edgar, a former senior intelligence official at the White House and at the office of the director of national intelligence. “They collect all this information, but it’s difficult for the other agencies to get access to what they want.”
“这是一个对NSA普遍存在的抱怨，”白宫和国家情报总监办公室(office of the director of national intelligence)前高级情报官员蒂莫西·H·埃德加(Timothy H. Edgar)说，“他们收集这一切信息，但其他机构却很难获取它们想要的东西。”
“The other agencies feel they should be bigger players,” said Mr. Edgar, who heard many of the disputes before leaving government this year to become a visiting fellow at Brown University. “They view the N.S.A. — incorrectly, I think — as this big pot of data that they could go get if they were just able to pry it out of them.”
“其他机构感到自己应有更大的发言权，”埃德加说。“我认为，它们对NSA的看法是不正确的，即只要自己能想出相应办法，就能把它当成可以利用的数据平台。”埃德加在今年离开政府前曾听说过许多这类纠纷，他现为布朗大学(Brown University)的访问学者。
Smaller intelligence units within the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Secret Service, the Pentagon and the Department of Homeland Security have sometimes been given access to the security agency’s surveillance tools for particular cases, intelligence officials say.
情报官员称，禁毒署(Drug Enforcement Administration)、特勤局(Secret Service)、五角大楼(Pentagon)和国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)内一些较小的情报部门，有时在某些案件中会获得NSA监视工具的使用权。
But more often, their requests have been rejected because the links to terrorism or foreign intelligence, usually required by law or policy, are considered tenuous. Officials at some agencies see another motive — protecting the security agency’s turf — and have grown resentful over what they see as a second-tier status that has undermined their own investigations into security matters.
但更多的时候，它们的要求会遭到拒绝，因为它们无法根据法律或政策通常的要求，证明这些案件与恐怖主义或外国情报机构有重要联系。一些机构的官员则看到了另一个拒绝的动机——保护NSA的资源——因此愈加不满，他们认为这种二等地位已经影响了他们在安全事务上的一些调查。
At the drug agency, for example, officials complained that they were blocked from using the security agency’s surveillance tools for several drug-trafficking cases in Latin America, which they said might be connected to financing terrorist groups in the Middle East and elsewhere.
例如在禁毒署，官员抱怨说，在调查拉丁美洲的几起贩毒案件时，他们无法使用NSA的监视工具，而他们认为这些案件或许与资助中东和其他地区的恐怖主义团伙有联系。
At the Homeland Security Department, officials have repeatedly sought to use the security agency’s Internet and telephone databases and other resources to trace cyberattacks on American targets that are believed to have stemmed from China, Russia and Eastern Europe, according to officials. They have often been rebuffed.
官员称，在国土安全部，官员反复地尝试使用NSA的互联网与电话数据库和其他资源，来追踪他们认为起源于中国、俄罗斯和东欧的对美国目标进行的网络攻击。他们往往遭到拒绝。
Officials at the other agencies, speaking only on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the tensions, say the National Security Agency’s reluctance to allow access to data has been particularly frustrating because of post-Sept. 11 measures that were intended to encourage information-sharing among federal agencies.
其他机构的官员由于未被授权讨论这些纠纷，而在采访时要求匿名，他们认为，国家安全局不愿他们获取数据十分令人沮丧，特别是“9·11”之后的一些措施希望联邦机构之间能共享信息。
In fact, a change made in 2008 in the executive order governing intelligence was intended to make it easier for the security agency to share surveillance information with other agencies if it was considered “relevant” to their own investigations. It has often been left to the national intelligence director’s office to referee the frequent disputes over how and when the security agency’s spy tools can be used. The director’s office declined to comment for this article.
事实上，2008年针对情报工作的行政命令做出了一个调整，目的就是让国家安全局与其他机构更好地分享监视信息，前提是这些信息被认定与它们的调查“相关”。通常，国家情报总监办公室负责调停纠纷，就如何、何时使用NSA的情报工具做出裁决。国家情报总监办公室拒绝就本文发表评论。
Decisions on using the security agency’s powers rest on many complicated variables, including a link to terrorism or “foreign intelligence,” the type of surveillance or data collection that is being conducted, the involvement of American targets, and the priority of the issue.
是否可以使用国家安全局的情报力量，这一决定取决于许多复杂的可变因素，包括与恐怖主义或“外国情报机构”的联系，正在进行的监视或数据收集的类型，所涉及的美国目标，以及问题的紧要级别。
“Every agency wants to think that their mission has to be the highest priority,” said a former senior White House intelligence official involved in recent turf issues.
“每一个机构都想要认为，它们的任务必须具有最高的优先级，”一位卷入最近的资源之争的前白宫情报官员说。
Other intelligence shops usually have quick access to N.S.A. tools and data on pressing matters of national security, like investigating a terrorism threat, planning battlefield operations or providing security for a presidential trip, officials say. But the conflicts arise during longer-term investigations with unclear foreign connections.
通常，在面临紧迫的国家安全问题时，如调查一次恐怖主义威胁、规划战时行动，或是为总统出行提供安全服务，其他情报机构能很快得到NSA的工具和数据。但面对较长期的调查项目，在其与外国的联系不十分清楚的情况下，往往就会出现冲突。
In pressing for greater access, a number of smaller agencies maintain that their cases involve legitimate national security threats and could be helped significantly by the N.S.A.’s ability to trace e-mails and Internet activity or other tools.
为了获取更多支持，一些规模较小的机构坚称，它们的调查涉及真正的国家安全威胁，如果能得到NSA在跟踪电子邮件与网络活动方面的能力及其他一些工具的支持，将会大有助益。
Mr. Edgar said officials in the national intelligence director’s office occasionally allow other agencies a role in identifying surveillance targets and seeing the results when it is relevant to their own inquiries. But more often, he acknowledged, the office has come down on the side of keeping the process held to an “exclusive club” at the N.S.A., the F.B.I. and the Justice Department, with help from the Central Intelligence Agency on foreign issues.
埃德加表示，国家情报总监办公室官员偶尔会允许其他机构，在涉及与它们各自调查相关的工作时，参与对监视目标的认定，并获得结果。但他也承认，在更多情况下，办公室还是会更乐于将这些工作限制在NSA、联邦调查局(FBI)和司法部(Justice Department)这样一个“精英俱乐部”中，并在涉及外国事务时，征求中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)的帮助。
Officials in the national intelligence director’s office worry about opening the surveillance too widely beyond the security agency and the F.B.I. for fear of abuse, Mr. Edgar said. The two intelligence giants have been “burned” by past wiretapping controversies and know the political consequences if they venture too far afield, he added.
埃德加说，国家情报总监办公室的官员担心，如果将监视工具的使用扩散到国家安全局和FBI以外更大的范围，它会被滥用。他补充说，这两家大型情报机构过去曾因监听争议而“吃过苦”，它们也非常清楚，越界带来的政治后果。
As furious as the public criticism of the security agency’s programs has been in the two months since Mr. Snowden’s disclosures, “it could have been much, much worse, if we had let these other agencies loose and we had real abuses,” Mr. Edgar said. “That was the nightmare scenario we were worried about, and that hasn’t happened.”
自从斯诺登泄密事件爆发以来，公众在过去两个月里对国家安全局项目表达了愤怒的指责，“如果我们不对其他一些机构加以限制，出现真正的滥用，情况会比现在糟糕许多，”埃德加说。“这曾是我们一直担心会出现的噩梦场景，但它并未发生。”