OVERLAND PARK, Kan. — After the Sunday afternoon mayhem, the handcuffed suspect was led to a gun-gray police car, his beard salt and pepper, his T-shirt a striking white. He looked like who he was, in part: a retiree who was said to have just spent part of his weekend at a casino. Then, from the back seat, he shouted a hoary phrase tinged with Southern inflection:
堪萨斯州欧弗兰帕克——周日下午的混乱过后，戴着手铐的嫌疑人被送进了一辆浅灰色的警车。他的胡子花白，身上的T恤是显眼的白色。一定程度上，他看起来很符合自己的身份：据说是刚在赌场度过了一段周末时光的退休人员。接下来，汽车后座上，传来他用南方口音高喊的陈旧口号：
“Heil Hitler!”
“希特勒万岁！”
Once again, Frazier Glenn Miller, 73, for decades one of the country’s more prominent white supremacists, known for his particular antipathy toward Jews, had announced himself. This time, though, he had been arrested here on suspicion of shooting and killing three people outside two Jewish community facilities, on the day before Passover.
73岁的弗雷泽·格伦·米勒(Frazier Glenn Miller)再次宣告了自己的心声。数十年来，他一直是美国颇为突出的白人至上主义者之一，尤其对犹太人极端厌恶。不过这一次，他在欧弗兰帕克遭到了拘捕，理由是涉嫌在逾越节的前一天于两家犹太人社区活动场所外枪杀三人。
The victims were William Corporon, 69, a physician; his 14-year-old grandson, Reat Underwood; and Terri LaManno, 53. None of them were Jewish.
受害人分别是69岁的医师威廉·科尔波龙(William Corporon)、他14岁的外孙里特·安德伍德(Reat Underwood)，以及53岁的特丽·拉曼诺(Terri LaManno)。三人均不是犹太人。
The news of Mr. Miller’s arrest almost, but not quite, surprised Heidi Beirich, the director of the Intelligence Project at the Southern Poverty Law Center, which monitors hate groups. Ms. Beirich has had several telephone conversations with Mr. Miller, whom she described as both congenial and so virulent in his anti-Semitism that his hatred took her aback.
米勒被捕的消息仅让南方贫困法律中心(Southern Poverty Law Center)的情报项目主管海迪·拜里奇(Heidi Beirich)略感惊讶。该中心监测仇恨团体，而拜里奇与米勒本人通过几次电话。她表示，米勒既表现得相当友善，又抱有让她震惊的极其恶劣的反犹主义仇恨情绪。
“On the one hand, I’m a little surprised,” Ms. Beirich said. “He has emphysema, spent most of his time posting nasty things on a website, and hadn’t done anything in years. On the other hand, how can you be surprised when a guy whose spent his life saying the Jews should be killed decides to go kill Jews?”
“一方面，我有点惊讶，”拜里奇说，“他有肺气肿，多数时间用来在网上发表相当恶劣的言论，但很多年都没有采取任何实质行动。另一方面，一辈子都在说犹太人应该被杀掉的某个人决定去杀犹太人，又怎能让人惊讶呢？”
Local, state and federal law-enforcement agencies announced on Monday that they were pursuing the shootings as a hate crime. “We believe that his motivation was to attack a Jewish facility,” said Chief John Douglass of the Overland Park police, but he added that it was unclear why the gunman chose the Jewish Community Center and Village Shalom, a nearby retirement home whose name includes the Hebrew word for peace.
地方、州级与联邦执法部门周一宣布，将以仇恨罪行追查这起枪击案。“我们认为，他的动机是袭击犹太人活动场所，”欧弗兰帕克警署署长约翰·道格拉斯(John Douglass)称。不过，他也指出，尚不清楚枪手为何选择犹太人社区中心(Jewish Community Center)和附近的养老院沙洛姆之村(Village Shalom)下手。在希伯来语中，沙洛姆意为“平安”。
A scheduled court appearance for Mr. Miller, who also goes by Frazier Glenn Cross, was postponed, leaving unanswered for another day the question of why. But Mr. Miller’s true nature has never been in doubt.
米勒又名弗雷泽·格伦·克罗斯（Frazier Glenn Cross，这个姓氏有十字架的意思——译注)。他原定的出庭时间被推迟，让人们抱着疑问继续等待。不过，米勒的真实本质向来确凿无疑。
His rudimentary website, for example, includes photographs of Ku Klux Klan rallies, a position paper on the need to do “whatever is necessary” to break the Jewish control of the media, and a link to his interview with the radio personality Howard Stern in 2010. After recommending that people get “Jew-wise,” Mr. Miller encourages visitors to have a nice day.
比方说，他的简陋网站上贴有3K党(Ku Klux Klan)集会的图片和宣称必须采取“一切必要措施”打破犹太人的媒体垄断的公告，以及他于2010年接受广播名人霍华德·斯特恩(Howard Stern)采访的链接。建议人们“小心犹太人”后，米勒祝愿访客度过愉快的一天。
He joined the Army as a teenager in March 1959. According to Mr. Miller and the Southern Poverty Law Center, he served two tours in Vietnam, and for 13 years, was a Green Beret. But he found his calling, he later said, when his father gave him a copy of a racist, anti-Semitic newsletter called “The Thunderbolt.”
1959年3月，十几岁的米勒加入美国陆军。按照他本人和南方贫困法律中心的说法，他两次在越南服役，并在陆军特种部队中度过了13年时光。然而，他后来表示，从父亲给他的一份简报中，他才找到了自己的使命。这份种族主义的反犹简报名为《雷电》(The Thunderbolt)
For a while, Mr. Miller — with his distinctive thick, dark mustache — was near or at the center of white supremacist action. He was present as a member of a Nazi group called the National Socialist Party of America when white supremacists shot and killed five communists at an anti-Klan protest march in Greensboro, N.C., in 1979.
有一段时间，唇上留着标志性的浓密深色胡子的米勒要么是处于白人至上主义活动的中心，要么是走得很近。1979年，白人至上主义者枪杀了在北卡罗来纳州格林斯伯勒进行反3K党游行活动的五名共产主义者。当时，作为纳粹团体美国国家社会主义党(National Socialist Party of America )成员的米勒就在现场。
William E. Martin, a North Carolina lawyer who, as a federal public defender, represented Mr. Miller in the 1980s, described his former client as a “very personable” man of typical habits, save for his worldview.
来自北卡罗来纳州的律师威廉·E·马丁(William E. Martin)曾在上世纪80年代作为公共辩护人代理米勒的官司。在他口中，这名以前的客户“招人喜欢”，习性与常人无异，唯一的例外是他的世界观。
“In standard conversation, he would be very much a regular guy,” Mr. Martin said. “But if you at all got him speaking about politics, you would immediately get his point of view on whatever topic you may be discussing, and he would be quite open about it.”
“在一般的交谈中，他很平常，”马丁说，“但是，一旦让他开口谈政治，不管讨论的是什么话题，你都会马上知道他的看法。他对这些也相当地坦然。”
Federal agents eventually tear-gassed Mr. Miller out of a weapons- and ammunition-crammed mobile home in the Ozarks. He pleaded guilty to a weapons charge, served three years in federal prison, and as part of his plea deal, later testified against other white supremacist leaders.
联邦探员最终采用催泪弹把米勒从欧扎克斯的一栋活动房里熏了出来，屋子里满是武器与弹药。他曾对一项与武器相关的指控表示认罪，在联邦监狱中服刑三年。作为认罪协议的一部分，他后来给出了不利于其他一些白人至上主义头目的证词。
Many white supremacists ostracized him as a result. But Ms. Beirich said that others considered him a hero. “There are people who will say, ‘This guy’s the real deal, as opposed to you guys who spend all your time on the Internet,’ ” she said.
结果，他受到了许多白人至上主义者的排斥。不过，拜里奇表示，其他人把他视为英雄。“有些人会说，‘这家伙如假包换，不像你们这帮人把所有时间都消磨在网上，’”她说。
About a decade ago, Mr. Miller moved to Aurora, Mo., where he has lived with his current wife, Marge, in a gray, ranch-style house at the junction of two farm roads. It is from here that he has enjoyed a second act, promoting his views on Internet hate forums, especially the Vanguard News Network website.
大约10年前，米勒搬到了密苏里州的奥罗拉。他与现任妻子玛吉(Marge)一起住在两条田间路交汇处的一栋农场风格的灰色房子里。正是在这里，他揭开了新的篇章，在互联网仇恨论坛上推广自己的观点，尤其是在“先锋新闻网”(Vanguard News Network)上。
Locally, he is known as an affable man, pretty much like anyone else, except for his views that Jews deserved extermination, and that the white race was, as he has written, “drowning literally in seas of colored mongrels.” He has mostly kept to himself, except when handing out white-supremacist literature.
在当地，他享有和蔼可亲的名声，与其他人没什么两样。除了他认为犹太人理应灭绝，并且抱有他曾写下的一种观点，即白种人“简直正在被有色杂种的海洋所淹没”。除了在散发白人至上主义材料的时候，他甚少与他人交谈。
In recent years, Mr. Miller has also been a devoted pen pal to incarcerated white supremacists, among them Joseph Paul Franklin, a convicted murderer who was executed in Missouri in November. Ms. Beirich, of the law center, said that Mr. Miller was very close to Mr. Franklin, whose birthday was Sunday, the day of the shooting.
近年来，米勒还与狱中的白人至上主义者积极通信，其中包括去年11月在密苏里州被执行死刑的谋杀犯约瑟夫·保罗·富兰克林(Joseph Paul Franklin)。南方贫困法律中心的拜里奇称，米勒与富兰克林关系非常密切，枪击发生的当天是富兰克林的生日。