Joy Chen is sitting on a bench outside a new museum about the medical atrocities committed by Japan’s Unit 731 in Manchuria during World War II, trying to absorb what she learned inside: After the war, the United States covered up Japan’s biological warfare research on humans, allowing the perpetrators to escape punishment and to prosper.
在一家展示二战期间日本731部队在满洲所犯暴行的新博物馆外，乔伊·陈(Joy Chen)坐在的一张长凳上，试图消化她在博物馆里了解的情况：二战结束后，美国掩盖了日本使用人体进行的生物武器研究，让作恶者逃脱惩罚，过上舒适的生活。
That is detailed prominently in exhibition notes and an audio guide in the black marble building that lies like a split box here in Pingfang, on the edge of Harbin in northeast China: “Out of considerations of its national security, the U.S. decided not to prosecute the leader of Unit 731 and the criminals under him. They all escaped trial for war crimes.”
在这栋黑色大理石建筑里，展览说明及语音解说详细讲述了上述情况，这个坐落于中国东北部城市哈尔滨平房区的建筑，看上去像一个分线箱：“出于对国家安全的考虑，美国决定不起诉731部队的首领及其手下的罪犯。他们都逃脱了战争罪审判。”
Led by Dr. Shiro Ishii, Unit 731 bred plague microbes, then deliberately infected thousands of men, women and children. It conducted vivisection and frostbite and air pressure experiments, transfused prisoners with horse blood and studied the effect of weapons on the body, among many things.
在石井四郎(Shiro Ishii)博士的带领下，731部队培育鼠疫细菌，然后故意感染数千名女人、男人和儿童。他们进行了活体解剖、冻伤及气压实验，将马血注入囚犯身体，研究武器对人体的影响，等等。
Ms. Chen had had her fill of horrors and left her two companions inside.
乔伊·陈非常恐惧，留下两个同伴自己走出了陈列馆。
“I’m shocked,” said Ms. Chen, 24, who studies English at the Harbin Institute of Foreign Languages. “I couldn’t take more. As a Chinese person I just felt it was so incredibly cruel.”
“我被吓到了，”24岁的乔伊·陈说。“我无法再看下去了。作为一名中国人，我觉得这太残忍了。”乔伊·陈在哈尔滨外国语学院学习英语。
“And I found out for the first time about the Americans. Why didn’t they prosecute them? I felt that was really hard to accept. Definitely, Chinese people will feel that way,” she said.“It is shocking, isn’t it,” said Mark Selden, a historian at Cornell University, in a telephone interview.
“我第一次知道美国人是这么做的。他们为什么不起诉？我觉得这真的很难接受。中国人肯定有这种感觉，”她说。“太令人震惊了，是不是？”康奈尔大学(Cornell University)历史学家马克·塞尔登(Mark Selden)接受电话采访时说。
“It is precisely correct, as far as we know. No one was prosecuted. A deal was cut for the rehabilitation of everyone,” Mr. Selden said.
塞尔登表示，“据我所知，这种说法是完全正确的。没人被起诉。所有人的改过都是做了交易的。”
That enabled the United States to gather information that was of great use for its own biological warfare program, early in the Cold War, he said.
这使得美国能够收集信息，在后来冷战初期的生物战项目中发挥了很大作用。
In contrast, many Nazi doctors in Europe who did similar things were prosecuted by the Nuremberg war crimes tribunal.
相比之下，欧洲很多做过类似事情的纳粹医生都遭到纽伦堡战争罪法庭起诉。
The American action in Japan “was in some ways similar to how Wernher von Braun and other scientists were taken to the U.S.,” said Mr. Selden, referring to the German rocket scientist. “The U.S. made very good use of them.”
美国在日本的行动“在某些方面与沃纳·冯·布劳恩(Wernher von Braun)及其他科学家被带到美国的情况类似，”塞尔登提到德国火箭专家时说。“美国很好地利用了他们。”
“In Japan, they did want the biological warfare research and they did take it. You and I may wonder if it was a wise thing to do, but the reality is that there was no significant pushback,” he said.
他说，“在日本，他们确实希望获得生物战研究成果，他们也确实得到了。我们可能会怀疑这么做是否明智，但事实是没有遇到巨大的阻力。”
The Museum of War Crime Evidence by Japanese Army Unit 731, which opened on Aug. 15, is bolder in intent than the older, adjacent museum that it incorporates and replaces and, according to museum officials, has attracted large crowds of visitors.
8月15日开馆的侵华日军第七三一部队罪证陈列馆吸引了很多游客。官方表示，相比毗邻的旧馆，这座新馆在意图上要更明确，也吸引了更多的观众。旧馆已被新馆整合与取代。
Judging by Ms. Chen’s reaction, its blunt declaration of the cover-up is having some impact and could one day raise a difficult question: Should the United States apologize to China?
根据乔伊·陈的反应来看，这种直言不讳地宣告包庇行为的举措产生了一些影响，将来某一天可能会引发一个难题：美国应该向中国道歉吗？
Those calls, for now mostly on the nationalist fringe, could grow if the relationship between the two nations worsens.There are also serious historians and bioethicists who believe what happened is morally too significant and damaging to humanity to be excused. Jing-Bao Nie at the University of Otago in New Zealand is one.
这种要求目前主要还是来自民族主义激进人士，但如果两国关系恶化，要求道歉的声音会越来越大。也有一些重要的历史学家和生物伦理学家认为，这件事在道德上关系重大，对人类造成了危害，难以饶恕。新西兰奥塔戈大学(University of Otago)的聂精保就这样认为。
“Morally, the cover-up trampled justice in the ruthless pursuit of national interest and national security,” Mr. Nie wrote in an email.
聂精保在邮件中写道，“从道德上看，坚决无情地追求国家利益和国家安全，进行包庇，这是在践踏公平正义。”
“Legally, the cover-up constitutes complicity after fact,” he said. “And pragmatically, a formal apology will serve the long-term interest of the United States because it can contribute positively to the relationship between the U.S. and China.”
“从法律上看，包庇行为构成事后共谋，”他说。“而实际上，进行正式道歉将有利于美国的长远利益，因为这会积极促进中美关系。”
That last may be needed one day, Mr. Selden said: “We are at a period in which there are a lot of tensions in the relationship.”
可能有一天会有这个必要，塞尔登表示：“目前中美关系存在很多紧张的地方。”
Yet for now, anger in China is directed almost entirely toward Japan, he said.
但他表示，目前，中国的愤怒几乎完全是针对日本的。
“I’ve often been struck by the unrestrained anger toward the Japanese, far beyond anything toward the U.S. Even if we are in a period of many frictions,” he said.
他说，“中国人对日本人的怒气常常让我感到惊讶，那种愤怒远远超过了对美国的不满，即便我们正处于摩擦不断的时期。”