When Tony West arrived in a Justice Department conference room to put the finishing touches on a lawsuit against JPMorgan Chase, he saw a familiar number flash on his cellphone.
托尼·韦斯特(Tony West)来到司法部(Justice Department)的一间会议室，准备为针对摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)的一宗案件做起诉前的最后工作。这时，他的手机上接到了一个熟悉的号码打来的电话。
Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan’s chief executive, was calling to seek a rare face-to-face meeting with Mr. West, a top Justice Department official with close ties to President Obama. Mr. Dimon hoped the meeting would avert the lawsuit, which threatened to spotlight the bank’s questionable mortgage practices before the financial crisis.
电话是摩根大通CEO杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)打来的。他请求与韦斯特进行一次并不多见的面对面交谈。韦斯特是司法部的最高官员之一，与奥巴马总统关系紧密。戴蒙希望通过会面来避免诉讼，因为一旦遭到起诉，这家银行在金融危机之前的不当按揭贷款操作恐怕就会大受关注。
Mr. West, 48, a soft-spoken but imposing presence who twice sought political office in his native California, resisted the overture. Pacing around the room with the phone pressed against his ear, people at the meeting later recalled, he told Mr. Dimon that the Justice Department would meet only if the bank came with a more generous offer than the $3 billion it had proposed to settle a narrow window of cases.
今年48岁的韦斯特语调和缓但让人心生敬畏，曾两度在家乡加利福尼亚州竞选公职。韦斯特拒绝了戴蒙的示好。当时在会议室里的人回忆道，韦斯特把电话紧紧按在耳朵上，一边在会议室里踱步，一边对戴蒙说，除非摩根大通拿出更慷慨的价码，否则司法部不会与他们碰面。摩根大通当时提出，以30亿美元（约合180亿元人民币）的金额，和解几宗胜算不大的案件。
“We don’t want you to waste your time and we don’t want to waste the attorney general’s time,” he told the bank chief, according to people in the room.
当时在场的人士透露，他对戴蒙说，“我们不想浪费你的时间，也不想浪费司法部长的时间。”
Mr. Dimon agreed to raise his offer, prompting the government to postpone the lawsuit. Two days later, on Sept. 24, he arrived at the Justice Department in Washington, where the two sides worked toward a $13 billion settlement that was announced on Tuesday.
戴蒙同意提高和解金额，于是政府决定推迟起诉。两天后的9月24日，他来到了位于华盛顿的司法部。在那里，双方通过艰苦谈判敲定了130亿美元的和解金额，和解条款已于本周二公布。
The settlement amounts to roughly half the bank’s annual profit.
这笔和解费大约相当于摩根大通年利润的一半。
Mr. West’s negotiating tactics underscore a broader strategy shift at the Justice Department, where prosecutors are seeking to hit Wall Street where it hurts most: the bottom line. After critics faulted the Justice Department for imposing fines considered little more than a slap on the wrist, Mr. West and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. have signaled to the nation’s biggest banks that the billion-dollar mark is now a floor rather than a ceiling.
韦斯特的谈判策略，显示出了司法部更广泛的战略转变。公诉人现在开始寻求打击华尔街最敏感的痛处：利润。在批评人士称司法部的罚金充其量是隔靴搔痒之后，韦斯特和司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)对美国最大的银行表示，10亿美元的标杆现在只是下限，不是上限。
The deal with JPMorgan, which eclipses other Wall Street settlements, is the largest sum a single company has ever paid to the government. The bank, at the Justice Department’s insistence, also took the rare step of admitting to a statement of facts that outlined how it failed to fully disclose the risks of buying risky mortgage securities from 2005 to 2008. And the case, a symbol of the government’s wider crackdown on Wall Street’s sale of troubled mortgage securities to pension funds and other investors, may set a precedent for cases against other major banks and industries like health care, where fines have already swelled in recent years.
与摩根大通的和解，是有史以来一家公司上缴给政府的款项中金额最大的一笔，令华尔街其他的和解案例相形见绌。在司法部的坚持要求下，这家银行还作出了罕见的举动，对一份事实陈述表示认可。这份陈述罗列了摩根大通在2005年至2008年之间，未能全面披露购入危险按揭证券所具有的风险的具体情节。这起标志性案件表明，政府对华尔街向养老基金及其他投资者销售不良按揭证券的行为，采取了更为广泛的打击。这可能会为针对其他大型银行及医疗业等其他产业的案件，设置一个先例。在这些领域，罚款金额近几年来已经出现了大幅上涨。
“The size and scope of this resolution should send a clear signal that the Justice Department’s financial fraud investigations are far from over,” Mr. Holder said in a statement. “No firm, no matter how profitable, is above the law, and the passage of time is no shield from accountability.”
“此次和解的规模和范围，应当能发出一个清晰的信号，即司法部对金融欺诈的调查远远没有停止，”霍尔德在一份声明中说。“没有任何一家企业能够凌驾于法律之上，无论它的盈利能力有多强。即使时间流逝，也不能逃脱责任。”
In its own statement, JPMorgan noted that it had money set aside for the settlement. And Mr. Dimon added, “We are pleased to have concluded this extensive agreement.”
在摩根大通自己发布的声明中，该银行称已经为和解预留了资金。戴蒙还说，“我们很欣慰，能最终达成这项全面的协议。”
Mr. West, a former defense lawyer who once represented John Walker Lindh, the American who joined the Taliban in Afghanistan, declined to be interviewed for this article.
韦斯特拒绝为本文接受采访。他曾为加入阿富汗塔利班的美国人约翰·沃克·林德(John Walker Lindh)担任辩护律师。
But people who have worked alongside Mr. West say steep fines are central to his negotiating philosophy, reflecting a focus on deterring repeat behavior. Even multimillion-dollar penalties, he has told colleagues, might become only the “cost of doing business” for big banks.
但曾与韦斯特共事的人士透露，巨额罚款在他的谈判思想中处在中心位置，反映出他关注的问题是遏止一再重复的行为。他对同事们说，即使是数百万美元的罚款，对大型银行而言，可能也只是“做生意的成本”。
Still, some critics of Wall Street are seeking harsher penalties. They question why the Justice Department’s has pursued civil penalties, rather than criminal charges, against the nation’s biggest banks.
不过，一些对华尔街持批判态度的人，仍然在要求采取更加严厉的惩罚。他们质问司法部为什么对美国最大的银行采取了民事处罚，而不是刑事起诉。
“Unless you hold the executives accountable, it really is just the cost of doing business,” said Bart Naylor, a policy advocate at Public Citizen, who noted that the settlements hurt shareholders more than executives.
公众公民(Public Citizen)政策倡导人士巴特·内勒(Bart Naylor)说，“除非能追究高管的责任，否则真的只是做生意的成本。”他指出，和解对股东的损害比对高管的损害更大。
And during a conference call on Tuesday, Marianne Lake, JPMorgan’s chief financial officer, emphasized that $7 billion of the settlement was tax-deductible. A person briefed on the case said the decision whether to credit the payments ultimately rested with the I.R.S., though public interest groups remained concerned.
在周二举行的一次电话会议上，摩根大通CFO玛丽安·雷克(Marianne Lake)强调，和解费中有70亿美元是可以减免税收的。一名了解案情的人士透露，罚款是否可以抵税最终要由国税局(IRS)决定，而公共利益团体仍然存在担忧。
In contrast, lawyers for big banks have questioned whether the Justice Department is crossing a line. The fines, they complain, are arbitrary figures meant as kind of catharsis for the public.
与上述反应相反，大型银行的律师则质疑，司法部是不是跨过了界限。他们抱怨，这笔罚款是随意确定的，意图在于让公众宣泄情绪。
Mr. West’s pursuit of big fines came into focus during the civil prosecution of Standard & Poor’s, which the Justice Department accused of awarding top ratings to troubled mortgage investments. While the rating agency offered a roughly $100 million settlement, the Justice Department sought a penalty of more than $1 billion and an admission of wrongdoing, people briefed on the matter said. The Justice Department ultimately filed the lawsuit and continues to press its case.
韦斯特追求巨额罚款的做法，是在对标准普尔(Standard & Poor’s)采取民事诉讼时受到关注的。司法部指控标普向不良按揭投资给予了最高评级。知情人士透露，这家评级机构提出缴纳大约1亿美元的和解费，但司法部寻求超过10亿美元的罚金，并要求标普承认存在过失。司法部最终提起了诉讼，并仍在继续推进该案。
The breakdown of the $13 billion settlement with JPMorgan includes a $2 billion fine to prosecutors in Sacramento and $4 billion in relief to struggling homeowners in hard-hit areas like Detroit and certain neighborhoods in New York. The government earmarked the other $7 billion as compensation to federal agencies and state attorneys general across the country, including those in Illinois, New York and California. The California attorney general, Kamala Harris, is Mr. West’s sister-in-law.
摩根大通缴纳的130亿美元和解费中，有20亿美元罚金要缴纳给萨克拉门托的检察机关，40亿美元用于在受危机冲击最严重的地区，如底特律和纽约州的一些社区，接济处境困难的购房者。政府还会将其余的70亿美元作为补偿，划拨给联邦机构和各州的检察机关，这些州包括伊利诺伊州、纽约州和加州。加州检察长卡玛拉·哈里斯(Kamala Harris)是韦斯特的妻姐。
The Justice Department secured a range of other concessions, including the admission of wrongdoing. JPMorgan also backed down from demands that prosecutors drop a related criminal investigation into the bank, and it forfeited the right to try later to recoup some of the $13 billion from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
司法部还取得了其他一系列让步，包括让摩根大通承认存在过错。该银行曾要求检察机关撤销对其展开的一项刑事调查，但后来作出退让。另外，摩根大通也放弃了从联邦存款保险公司(Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation)收回130亿美元罚金的一部分的权利。