Increasingly frustrated by his dealings with President Hamid Karzai, President Obama is giving serious consideration to speeding up the withdrawal of United States forces from Afghanistan and to a “zero option” that would leave no American troops there after next year, according to American and European officials.
美国和欧洲官员表示，由于在和哈米德·卡尔扎伊总统(Hamid Karzai)的交涉中渐感无望，奥巴马总统正在认真考虑加快美军撤离阿富汗的进程，甚至实现“零驻军”，即在明年之后美军完全撤离。
Mr. Obama is committed to ending America’s military involvement in Afghanistan by the end of 2014, and Obama administration officials have been negotiating with Afghan officials about leaving a small “residual force” behind. But his relationship with Mr. Karzai has been slowly unraveling, and reached a new low after an effort last month by the United States to begin peace talks with the Taliban in Qatar.
奥巴马承诺要在2014年年底结束美国在阿富汗的军事介入，而奥巴马政府官员也一直在与阿富汗官员商讨在当地保持少量“留守部队”事宜。但是他与卡尔扎伊的关系正在慢慢破裂，上个月美国试图在卡塔尔与塔利班(Taliban)进行和谈，更令双方关系坠入最低谷。
Mr. Karzai promptly repudiated the talks and ended negotiations with the United States over the long-term security deal that is needed to keep American forces in Afghanistan after 2014.
卡尔扎伊迅速表示反对和谈，并终止了与美国就长期安全协议所展开的协商。而如果要让美国部队在2014年后留在阿富汗，就必须有这样一个协议。
A videoconference between Mr. Obama and Mr. Karzai designed to defuse the tensions ended badly, according to both American and Afghan officials with knowledge of the conversation. Mr. Karzai, according to those sources, accused the United States of trying to negotiate a separate peace with both the Taliban and its backers in Pakistan, leaving Afghanistan’s fragile government exposed to its enemies.
为了缓和紧张气氛，奥巴马和卡尔扎伊举行了一次视频会议，但据了解谈话情况的美国和阿富汗官员表示，会议结果并不理想。这些人说，卡尔扎伊谴责美国试图与塔利班及其巴基斯坦境内的支持者进行协商，以求单独媾和，使阿富汗脆弱的政府暴露在了敌人面前。
Mr. Karzai has made similar accusations in the past. But those comments were delivered to Afghans — not to Mr. Obama, who responded by pointing out the American lives that have been lost propping up Mr. Karzai’s government, the officials said.
卡尔扎伊过去也曾发表过类似的指责。但过去这些评论的对象都是阿富汗人，而不是奥巴马。官员称奥巴马对此的回应是，有很多美国人为了支援卡尔扎伊政府而失去了生命。
The option of leaving no troops in Afghanistan after 2014 was gaining momentum before the June 27 video conference, according to the officials. But since then, the idea of a complete military exit similar to the American military pullout from Iraq has gone from being considered the worst-case scenario — and a useful negotiating tool with Mr. Karzai — to an alternative under serious consideration in Washington and Kabul.
官员表示，在6月27日的视频会议之前，美军完全撤离阿富汗的提议获得了越来越多的支持。人们原本认为，美军完全撤离的想法（这与美国撤离伊拉克很相似）是最坏打算，也是与卡尔扎伊进行协商的有力筹码，但在视频会议之后，这种想法就变成了一种选择，华盛顿和喀布尔都开始认真考虑。
The officials cautioned that no decisions had been made on the pace of the pullout and exactly how many American troops to leave behind in Afghanistan. The goal remains negotiating a long-term security deal, they said, but the hardening of negotiating stances on both sides could result in a repeat of what happened in Iraq, where a deal failed to materialize despite widespread expectations that a compromise would be reached and American forces would remain.
官员指出，该以怎样的速度撤离以及要把多少美国军队留在阿富汗目前尚无定论。他们说，最终目标仍然是协商出一个长期的安全协议，但是双方在协商中愈加强硬的立场很可能会使伊拉克的情况重演。当时，虽然人们广泛期望双方能做出让步，让美国军队留下，但双方最终还是未能达成协议。
“There’s always been a zero option, but it was not seen as the main option,” said a senior Western official in Kabul. “It is now becoming one of them, and if you listen to some people in Washington, it is maybe now being seen as a realistic path.”
“零驻军的选择一直存在，但过去人们认为它并非主要选择，”一名驻喀布尔的西方高级官员说。“它现在正在成为主要选择之一，听听一些美国政府官员的意见就知道，它或许已经被视作一种切实可行的方案了。”
The official, however, said he hoped some in the Karzai government were beginning to understand that the zero option was now a distinct possibility, and that “they’re learning now, not later, when it’s going to be too late.”
然而，这名官员说，他希望卡尔扎伊政府中有人能开始明白，美方现在极可能会零驻军，而且“他们现在就要知道（这点），而不是（等美国）做出选择后，那时就太晚了”。
As it stands now, the number of American troops in Afghanistan — around 63,000 — is scheduled to go down to 34,000 by February 2014. The White House has said that the vast majority of troops would be out of Afghanistan by the end of that year, although it now appears that the schedule could accelerate to bring the bulk of the troops — if not all of them — home by next summer, as the annual fighting season winds down.
目前美国在阿富汗驻有大约6.3万名士兵——按计划到2014年2月要降到3.4万。白宫此前表示会在明年底之前撤出大部分兵力，不过现在看来这个日程似乎可以提前，在明年夏天，也就是一年一度的冲突多发时段过去后，把大部分甚至全部部队调回。
Talks between the United States and Afghanistan over a long-term security deal have faltered in recent months over the Afghan government’s insistence that the United States guarantee Afghanistan’s security and, in essence, commit to declaring Pakistan the main obstacle in the fight against militancy in the region.
阿富汗政府要求美国必须保障阿富汗的安全，并且从根本上认定在该地区针对反政府武装的行动中，巴基斯坦是主要的障碍，由于这种坚持，美国和阿富汗就签订长期安全协议展开的会谈在最近几个月收效甚微。
The guarantees sought by Afghanistan, if implemented, could possibly compel the United States to attack Taliban havens in Pakistan long after 2014, when the Obama administration has said it hoped to dial back the C.I.A.’s covert drone war there.
阿富汗要求的这种安全保障一旦付诸实施，美国可能会被迫向巴基斯坦境内的塔利班据点发起攻击，一直持续到2014年以后，而奥巴马政府已经表示过希望在明年减少中央情报局(CIA)在那里的秘密无人机行动。
Mr. Karzai also wants the Obama administration to specify the number of troops it would leave in Afghanistan after 2014 and make a multiyear financial commitment to the Afghan Army and the police.
卡尔扎伊还希望奥巴马政府能明确2014年之后美国在阿富汗驻军的具体规模，并能承诺对阿富汗军队和警察给予多年期的财政援助。
The White House announced last month that long-delayed talks with the Taliban would begin in Doha, Qatar, where the Taliban opened what amounts to an embassy-in-exile, complete with their old flag and a plaque with their official name, “The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan.”
白宫上月宣布，和塔利班之间拖延已久的对话将在卡塔尔多哈举行，塔利班在那里设立了一个类似流亡大使馆的机构，悬挂着他们的老旗帜，门牌上写着该组织的正式名称：“阿富汗伊斯兰酋长国”(The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan)。
But the highly choreographed announcement backfired, with Afghan officials saying the talks gave the insurgents undeserved legitimacy and accusing the Obama administration of negotiating behind Mr. Karzai’s back.
但是这场精心安排的发布会产生了适得其反的效果，阿富汗官方说这样的会谈令叛乱分子具备了不正当的合理性，并指责奥巴马政府背着卡尔扎伊和塔利班谈判。
To the surprise of American officials, Mr. Karzai then abruptly ended the negotiations over a long-term security deal. He has said that the negotiations would not resume until the Taliban met directly with representatives of the Afghan government, essentially linking the security negotiations to a faltering peace process and making the United States responsible for persuading the Taliban to talk to the Afghan government.
令美国官员们感到意外的是，卡尔扎伊随后突然中止了关于长期安全协议的谈判。他曾表示除非塔利班和阿富汗政府代表能直接会面，否则不会再继续谈判，这实际上等于把安全谈判和一个前景黯淡的和平进程连在了一起，让美国去说服塔利班和阿富汗政府展开对话。
The Taliban has refused for years to meet directly with Afghan government negotiators, derided Mr. Karzai and his ministers as American puppets.
塔利班多年来一直拒绝和阿富汗政府的谈判人员会面，并嘲笑卡尔扎伊和他的内阁是美国人的傀儡。
The ripple effects of a complete American withdrawal would be significant. Western officials said the Germans and Italians — the two main European allies who have committed to staying on with substantial forces — would leave as well. Any smaller nations that envisioned keeping token forces would most likely have no way of doing so.
美国全面撤军会产生剧烈的连锁反应。西方国家的官员们称，德国和意大利也会撤军，这两个主要的欧洲盟国也向阿富汗派驻了数量可观的部队。其他较小的国家原本设想在这里象征性地驻扎部队，这样一来就不太可能了。
And Afghanistan would probably see far less than the roughly $8 billion in annual military and civilian aid it is expecting in the coming years — an amount that covers more than half the government’s annual spending.
阿富汗政府原本估计在未来几年能得到每年约80亿美元的军事和民事援助，这笔钱将覆盖政府全年一半以上的开支，但现在看来可能远远达不到这个数字。