Most low-income students who have top test scores and grades do not even apply to the nation’s best colleges, according to a new analysis of every high school student who took the SAT in a recent year.
一项新的分析显示，在近年所有参加“学术能力评估测试”(SAT)的高中生中，来自低收入家庭的大多数高分考生甚至并没有申请国内最好的大学。
The pattern contributes to widening economic inequality and low levels of mobility in this country, economists say, because college graduates earn so much more on average than nongraduates do. Low-income students who excel in high school often do not graduate from the less selective colleges they attend.
经济学家表示，这种情况加大了美国的经济不平等性，并导致流动性处在较低水平，因为平均来看，大学毕业生的薪水要远远高于非大学毕业生。通常，来自低收入家庭的优秀高中生也不能从他们所就读的非重点类院校毕业。
Only 34 percent of high-achieving high school seniors in the bottom fourth of income distribution attended any one of the country’s 238 most selective colleges, according to the analysis, conducted by Caroline M. Hoxby of Stanford and Christopher Avery of Harvard, two longtime education researchers. Among top students in the highest income quartile, that figure was 78 percent.
该项分析表明，在收入分配处于底层四分之一象限内的优秀高中毕业生中，仅有34%会选择就读美国最知名的238所高校中的一所，而在收入分配处于顶层四分之一象限内的优秀高中毕业生中，这一数字却是78%。该项分析是由两位长期致力于教育研究的专家——斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的卡罗琳·M·霍克斯比(Caroline M. Hoxby)和哈佛大学(Harvard University)的克里斯托弗·艾弗里(Christopher Avery)进行的。
The findings underscore that elite public and private colleges, despite a stated desire to recruit an economically diverse group of students, have largely failed to do so.
这些发现表明，尽管公立和私立名校都有招收不同收入阶层的学生的愿望，但它们在很大程度上并没有做到这一点。
Many top low-income students instead attend community colleges or four-year institutions closer to their homes, the study found. The students often are unaware of the amount of financial aid available or simply do not consider a top college because they have never met someone who attended one, according to the study’s authors, other experts and high school guidance counselors.
研究发现，很多低收入家庭的优秀学生只上了社区大学或离家较近的四年制院校。据该研究的作者，其他专业人士，以及高中指导顾问表示，通常而言，这些学生并不了解他们可获得的资助金额或者根本就没有考虑过知名院校，因为他们从未遇到过就读这类学校的人。
“A lot of low-income and middle-income students have the inclination to stay local, at known colleges, which is understandable when you think about it,” said George Moran, a guidance counselor at Central Magnet High School in Bridgeport, Conn. “They didn’t have any other examples, any models — who’s ever heard of Bowdoin College?”
“很多中低收入家庭的学生都愿意在当地就读比较熟悉的院校，其实想一想，这是可以理解的。”位于康涅狄格州布里奇波特的中央磁石中学(Central Magnet High School)指导顾问乔治·莫兰(George Moran)说，“他们找不到其他的例子，找不到榜样——有人听说过鲍登学院(Bowdoin College)吗？”
Whatever the reasons, the choice frequently has major consequences. The colleges that most low-income students attend have fewer resources and lower graduation rates than selective colleges, and many students who attend a local college do not graduate. Those who do graduate can miss out on the career opportunities that top colleges offer.
无论什么原因，这种选择通常都会带来严重后果。相比于知名院校，大多数低收入家庭学生就读的院校的资源要少，而且毕业率也低；很多就读当地院校的学生都未能毕业。而那些毕业的学生则会错过知名院校提供的就业机会。
The new study is beginning to receive attention among scholars and college officials because it is more comprehensive than other research on college choices. The study suggests that the problems, and the opportunities, for low-income students are larger than previously thought.
这项研究已经开始引起学者和大学官员的关注，因为它比其他有关大学选择的研究更为全面。该研究表明，低收入家庭学生所面临的问题要比先前想象的严重，当然，他们所面临的机遇也更大。
“It’s pretty close to unimpeachable — they’re drawing on a national sample,” said Tom Parker, the dean of admissions at Amherst College, which has aggressively recruited poor and middle-class students in recent years. That so many high-achieving, lower-income students exist “is a very important realization,” Mr. Parker said, and he suggested that colleges should become more creative in persuading them to apply.
“这几乎是无可置疑的——他们描绘了一个全国性的样本，”阿默斯特学院(Amherst College)招生办主任汤姆·帕克(Tom Parker)说。该校在近几年中积极招收中低收入家庭的学生。帕克先生表示，意识到有这么多来自低收入家庭的优秀学生是“非常重要的”；他建议说，大学应该采取更有创意的方式来说服他们提交申请。
Top low-income students in the nation’s 15 largest metropolitan areas do often apply to selective colleges, according to the study, which was based on test scores, self-reported data, and census and other data for the high school class of 2008. But such students from smaller metropolitan areas — like Bridgeport; Memphis; Sacramento; Toledo, Ohio; and Tulsa, Okla. — and rural areas typically do not.
这项研究表明，在美国的15个大都会区，低收入家庭的优秀学生通常都会申请知名院校。但来自较小都会区——比如说，布里奇波特、孟菲斯、萨克拉门托、俄亥俄的托莱多以及俄克拉荷马的塔尔萨——和乡村地区的这类学生一般不会申请知名院校。该研究是基于2008届高中毕业班的数据做出的，这些数据包括考试成绩、自报数据、统计数据和其他数据等。
These students, Ms. Hoxby said, “lack exposure to people who say there is a difference among colleges.”
霍克斯比女士说，这些学生“难以接触到可以告诉他们大学之间存在差异的人。”
Elite colleges may soon face more pressure to recruit poor and middle-class students, if the Supreme Court restricts race-based affirmative action. A ruling in the case, involving the University of Texas, is expected sometime before late June.
如果美国最高法院(Supreme Court)限制基于种族的平权行动，那么知名院校在招收中低收入家庭学生方面将很快面临更大压力。这起涉及德克萨斯大学(University of Texas)的案件在6月底做出了判决。
Colleges currently give little or no advantage in the admissions process to low-income students, compared with more affluent students of the same race, other research has found. A broad ruling against the University of Texas affirmative action program could cause colleges to take into account various socioeconomic measures, including income, neighborhood and family composition. Such a step would require an increase in these colleges’ financial aid spending but would help them enroll significant numbers of minority students.
据其他研究表明，相比于同一种族的富裕家庭学生，目前大学在招生方面并没有对低收入家庭学生出台优惠政策或只是给予很少的优惠。针对德克萨斯大学平权行动计划的广义判决可能会导致各大学考虑包括收入、居住社区和家庭构成在内的各种社会经济度量指标。这样的举措会加大大学的财务支出，但也会帮助它们招到更多的少数族裔学生。
Among high-achieving, low-income students, 6 percent were black, 8 percent Latino, 15 percent Asian-American and 69 percent white, the study found.
这项研究发现，在来自低收入家庭的优秀学生中，6%是黑人学生，8%是拉丁裔学生，15%是亚裔学生，69%是白人学生。
“If there are changes to how we define diversity,” said Greg W. Roberts, the dean of admission at the University of Virginia, referring to the court case, “then I expect schools will really work hard at identifying low-income students.”
“如果转向我们所说的多样化，那么我想学校在甄别低收入家庭学生方面将会面临很多工作，”弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)招生办主任格雷格·W·罗伯茨(Greg W. Roberts)说。
Winona Leon, a sophomore at the University of Southern California who grew up in West Texas, said she was not surprised by the study’s results. Ms. Leon was the valedictorian of her 17-member senior class in the ranch town of Fort Davis, where Advanced Placement classes and SAT preparation were rare.
南加州大学(University of Southern California)大二学生威诺娜·利昂(Winona Leon)来自西德克萨斯。她说她对这项研究的结果并不感到惊讶。利昂就读的高中位于牧场小镇戴维斯堡，她们这个毕业班有17人，而她是致告别词的学生代表；在那里，参加大学预修课程(AP)和SAT的学生屈指可数。
“It was really on ourselves to create those resources,” she said.
“这真的是靠我们自己来创造资源，”她说。
She first assumed that faraway colleges would be too expensive, given their high list prices and the cost of plane tickets home. But after receiving a mailing from QuestBridge, an outreach program for low-income students, she came to realize that a top college might offer her enough financial aid to make it less expensive than a state university in Texas.
基于大学所列的费用清单及往返的机票费用，她原以为就读外地大学会花很多钱。但在收到针对低收入家庭学生的拓展计划——QuestBridge的邮件后，她意识到名校可以为她提供足够的财务支持，因而其花费也会低于德州境内的州立大学。
On average, private colleges and top state universities are substantially more expensive than community colleges, even with financial aid. But some colleges, especially the most selective, offer enough aid to close or eliminate the gap for low-income students.
即便提供财务支持，私立大学和知名州立大学的费用一般也都远高于社区大学。但有些院校，尤其是一流院校，其为低收入家庭学生提供的支持可以完全或部分抵销这种费用差距。
If they make it to top colleges, high-achieving, low-income students tend to thrive there, the paper found. Based on the most recent data, 89 percent of such students at selective colleges had graduated or were on pace to do so, compared with only 50 percent of top low-income students at nonselective colleges.
据该研究表示，如果就读一流院校，那么来自低收入家庭的优秀学生通常会有更好的表现。基于最新的数据，在知名院校的这类学生中，有89%已经毕业或即将毕业，而在一般性的大学中，这一数字仅为50%。