MANILA — An elite American military counterterrorism unit that has been operating in the southern Philippines for more than a decade is being phased out, the Pentagon’s Pacific Command said Thursday.
马尼拉——美国太平洋司令部周四表示，他们将逐渐撤出在菲律宾南部驻扎了十多年的一支美军反恐精锐部队。
The Joint Special Operations Task Force Philippines — which was formed after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks — was established to help train and advise the Philippines in its fight against rebel groups linked to Al Qaeda. The unit was one of dozens worldwide that tried to fight potential terrorist groups, before they could strike the United States.
这支名为特种作战联合特遣部队菲律宾支队(Joint Special Operations Task Force Philippines)的部队是2011年9·11事件后组建的，目的是在菲律宾和基地组织(Al Qaeda)相关的叛乱团伙作战时，为菲方提供培训和咨询。为了赶在潜在恐怖组织对美国发动袭击之前先发制人，美国在全球组建了数十支这样的部队，这是其中之一。
American Special Forces will continue to help Philippine security forces counter a smaller, lingering Islamist threat, but the size of the mission will drop in the coming months to a dozen or so advisers from its current 320 service members, based in Mindanao in the south, American officials said.
美国特种部队(American Special Forces)将继续帮助菲律宾安全力量对抗历久不散、但强度较小的伊斯兰极端主义威胁，不过，在接下来的几个月里，这支部队的规模，将从目前驻守在南部棉兰老岛的320名现役人员，缩减为12名左右的顾问。
“Our partnership with the Philippine security forces has been successful in drastically reducing the capabilities of domestic and transnational terrorist groups in the Philippines — to the point where they have largely devolved into disorganized groups resorting to criminal undertakings to sustain their activities,” said Capt. Masato Itoh of the Marine Corps, a spokesman for the Pacific Command in Hawaii.
位于夏威夷的太平洋司令部发言人、海军陆战队上尉马萨托·伊托(Masato Itoh)说，“我们和菲律宾安全部队的伙伴关系大幅削减了菲律宾本土的恐怖组织和跨国恐怖组织的实力——他们大致已被击溃为一盘散沙，不得不依靠犯罪活动来维持自己的运转。”
The phasing out of the force, which had as many as 600 troops as recently as 2009, reflects a combination of budget pressures in Washington; higher priorities for Special Forces in spots like Iraq; and a successful shift to Filipino forces that have largely defeated militant groups like Abu Sayyaf and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front.
此次撤军是多种因素共同作用的结果，包括美国政府面临重重预算压力；美方更优先于在伊拉克等地部署特种部队；以及美国成功地向菲律宾部队移交了权力，菲军基本击败了阿布沙耶夫(Abu Sayyaf)和摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线(Moro Islamic Liberation Front)等武装团伙。
“This is a natural evolution and an example of the maturation of the Philippine military,” said Col. David S. Maxwell, a retired Special Forces officer who commanded the unit in 2007 and is now at Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service. “Our commitment still remains, but it’s possible to scale back and transition to a new training mission.”
戴维·S·麦克斯韦尔(David S. Maxwell)上校说，“这是一种自然而然的演变，是菲律宾军队已经成熟的例证。我们的承诺还在，不过，我们可能会缩减人员规模，转变成一支新的培训队伍。”麦克斯韦尔曾在2007年担任菲律宾支队的指挥官，现已退役，在乔治敦大学外交服务学院(Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service)任职。
Indeed, the changing American counterterrorism role comes two months after the Philippines and the United States signed an agreement that would allow the construction of military facilities in the Philippines that could be used by the United States. The new deal would allow American ships, aircraft and military personnel to be stationed there — though officials have stressed that permanent American bases would not be established.
实际上，美国反恐角色的变化，是在美菲两国签订某协议两个月后出现的，该协议批准了在菲律宾建设能为美军所用的军事基地。新协议将允许美方在这些基地部署战舰、军机和军事人员——不过，官员们强调，不会在菲律宾建设永久性的美军基地。
The new arrangement is focused on external threats, particularly in light of increased tensions between the Philippines and China over territorial disputes in the South China Sea. The Philippine government has identified several potential areas where the American military might operate, most of which are near the western Philippine coast, facing China.
新安排注重外部威胁，特别是考虑到中菲关系因为南海领土争端而日益紧张。菲律宾政府确定了几个美国军队可能驻扎的区域，其中大部分都靠近菲律宾西海岸，与中国隔海相望。
American forces in the southern Philippines have not been authorized for combat but have played an advisory role on intelligence and surveillance, including the use of aerial drones for locating suspected rebels.
驻扎在菲律宾南部的美国部队没有得到作战授权，但他们在情报及监控方面提供咨询，包括利用无人机确定可疑叛乱分子的位置。
The primary target of the Philippine military and the Special Forces was the small but violent Abu Sayyaf Group, credited with high-profile kidnappings, bombings and beheadings. Abu Sayyaf was formed in the early 1990s by Filipino rebels trained under Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan, and with help in the Philippines from Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, who organized the 1993 World Trade Center bombing in New York.
菲律宾军队和美国特种部队的主要目标是规模小但却十分暴力的阿布沙耶夫组织，该组织因为绑架、轰炸、砍头事件而备受关注。20世纪90年代早期，曾在阿富汗接受奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)训练的菲律宾叛乱分子在拉姆齐·艾哈迈德·优素福(Ramzi Ahmed Yousef)的帮助下，成立了该组织。优素福策划了1993年纽约世贸中心(World Trade Center)爆炸案。
According to data from Pacific Strategies and Assessments, a risk consultancy that produces regular reports on insurgency activities in the Philippines, violence has remained consistently high in the southern Philippines in recent years. Abu Sayyaf is focused primarily on criminal activity, but remains a significant threat, according to a recent report by the firm.
风险顾问公司太平洋战略与评估(Pacific Strategies and Assessments)定期提供有关菲律宾叛乱活动的报告，该公司的数据显示，最近几年，菲律宾南部的暴力活动数量居高不下。根据该公司最近提供的报告，阿布沙耶夫组织主要实施犯罪活动，但仍是一个重大威胁。
“The group has been surprisingly resilient and able to sustain this number over the past decade despite the death and capture of over a hundred of its leaders and members in past years,” it said.
该报告称，“该组织的恢复能力非常强，能够在过去十年保持一定的成员数量，尽管几年来已经有100多名领袖和成员死亡或被捕。”
Abu Sayyaf’s ranks have declined to 400 fighters from a peak of 1,300 members in 2000, the report said, noting that two new violent extremist groups had been established in the southern Philippines recently.
报告称，阿布沙耶夫组织的成员数量已经从2000年的高峰——1300名缩减至400名。报告指出，菲律宾南部最近成立了两个新的暴力极端组织。
The Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters, established in 2010 as an offshoot of a larger, more moderate insurgency group, has about 450 armed followers who attack government forces and carry out bombings in the southern Philippines.
成立于2010年的摩洛伊斯兰自由斗士(The Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters)是一个规模较大且比较温和的叛乱组织的分支，该组织大约有450名武装成员，他们攻击政府军，并在菲律宾南部进行炸弹袭击。
The Khilafah Islamiyah Movement, a small, shadowy organization founded in 2012, is estimated to have only 20 to 30 members, but the Philippine military believes it detonated bombs in southern malls last year.
据估计，2012年成立的小型神秘组织哈里发伊斯兰运动(The Khilafah Islamiyah Movement)只有20至30名成员，但菲律宾军队认为去年在南部地区的商场引爆炸弹的就是该组织。