Something terrible has happened to the soul of the Republican Party. We’ve gone beyond bad economic doctrine. We’ve even gone beyond selfishness and special interests. At this point we’re talking about a state of mind that takes positive glee in inflicting further suffering on the already miserable.
共和党的灵魂出了严重问题。这已经超越了他们糟糕的经济信条，甚至也超越了自私与特殊利益。时至今日，我们讨论的是他们的心态，那种让水深火热中的民众进一步受苦并从中取乐的心态。
The occasion for these observations is, as you may have guessed, the monstrous farm bill the House passed last week.
得出这种结论的依据，大家可能已经猜到了，就是众议院上周通过的畸形的农业法案。
For decades, farm bills have had two major pieces. One piece offers subsidies to farmers; the other offers nutritional aid to Americans in distress, mainly in the form of food stamps (these days officially known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP).
数十年来，农业法案包含了两项主要法律。一项向农场主提供补贴；另一项则给有困难的美国民众提供营养补助，其主要形式是食品券（它如今的正式名称是“营养补充援助计划”[Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program]，简称为SNAP）。
Long ago, when subsidies helped many poor farmers, you could defend the whole package as a form of support for those in need. Over the years, however, the two pieces diverged. Farm subsidies became a fraud-ridden program that mainly benefits corporations and wealthy individuals. Meanwhile food stamps became a crucial part of the social safety net.
很久以前，补贴帮助了许多贫穷的农场主，那时大家还可以辩称，农业法案整体上是面向有需要人群的一种援助形式。不过，随着时间的推移，这两项法律已分道扬镳。农业补贴计划变得充斥着诈骗，主要受益者成了大企业和富裕的个人。与此同时，食品券成为了社会福利中至关重要的组成部分。
So House Republicans voted to maintain farm subsidies — at a higher level than either the Senate or the White House proposed — while completely eliminating food stamps from the bill.
因此，共和党众议员们投票保留了农业补贴，补贴额度甚至高过了参议院和白宫提议的水平，同时又把法案中的食品券部分全盘取消。
To fully appreciate what just went down, listen to the rhetoric conservatives often use to justify eliminating safety-net programs. It goes something like this: “You’re personally free to help the poor. But the government has no right to take people’s money” — frequently, at this point, they add the words “at the point of a gun” — “and force them to give it to the poor.”
为了充分理解刚刚究竟发生了什么情况，请听保守派常用来为取消福利计划进行辩护的言论。它基本上是这样的：“你个人有帮助穷人的自由。但政府无权拿民众的钱”——这时候，他们往往还要加上，“端着枪，强迫他们施与穷人。”
It is, however, apparently perfectly O.K. to take people’s money at the point of a gun and force them to give it to agribusinesses and the wealthy.
不过，拿民众的钱，端着枪强迫他们向农业企业和富人施舍，这似乎就完全没有问题了。
Now, some enemies of food stamps don’t quote libertarian philosophy; they quote the Bible instead. Representative Stephen Fincher of Tennessee, for example, cited the New Testament: “The one who is unwilling to work shall not eat.” Sure enough, it turns out that Mr. Fincher has personally received millions in farm subsidies.
现如今，一些痛恨食品券的人不再援引自由意志主义哲学了，而是转而引用《圣经》。比方说，田纳西州众议员史蒂芬·芬彻(Stephen Fincher)引用了《新约全书》：“不劳作，不得食。”当然了，事实表明，芬彻本人拿到了数百万美元的农业补贴。
Given this awesome double standard — I don’t think the word “hypocrisy” does it justice — it seems almost anti-climactic to talk about facts and figures. But I guess we must.
鉴于这种奇妙的双重标准——我认为“虚伪”这个词已不足以表达个中精髓——讨论事实和数据看起来近乎扫兴了。不过我想，必须这么做。
So: Food stamp usage has indeed soared in recent years, with the percentage of the population receiving stamps rising from 8.7 in 2007 to 15.2 in the most recent data. There is, however, no mystery here. SNAP is supposed to help families in distress, and lately a lot of families have been in distress.
好吧：近年，食品券使用量的确大幅飙升，领取食品券的人口比例从2007年的8.7%提升至最新一次统计的15.2%。不过，这没什么令人费解的。SNAP的设计用途就是帮助有困难的家庭，而近来许多家庭都一直处于困难之中。
In fact, SNAP usage tends to track broad measures of unemployment, like U6, which includes the underemployed and workers who have temporarily given up active job search. And U6 more than doubled in the crisis, from about 8 percent before the Great Recession to 17 percent in early 2010. It’s true that broad unemployment has since declined slightly, while food stamp numbers have continued to rise — but there’s normally some lag in the relationship, and it’s probably also true that some families have been forced to take food stamps by sharp cuts in unemployment benefits.
事实上，SNAP使用量基本与衡量失业率的广泛标准走势一致，比如U6失业率，这其中包括未充分就业者以及暂时放弃积极寻找工作的人。经济危机期间，U6增长至原来的两倍多，从本轮大衰退(Great Recession)前的约8%升至2010年初的17%。确实，广泛的失业率自那以来有所下降，而食品券数量却在继续上升——但通常情况下两者的相关性有着一定的滞后，而且很可能也有一些家庭因失业补助大幅下降而被迫领取食品券。
What about the theory, common on the right, that it’s the other way around — that we have so much unemployment thanks to government programs that, in effect, pay people not to work? (Soup kitchens caused the Great Depression!) The basic answer is, you have to be kidding. Do you really believe that Americans are living lives of leisure on $134 a month, the average SNAP benefit?
那么那个右翼普遍接受的理论呢？根据该理论，事实正好是相反的——正是由于那些实际上给人钱让人不去工作的政府项目太多，我们才有这么高的失业率。（救济厨房导致了大萧条[Great Depression]！）简单的答案是，你肯定是在开玩笑。你真的相信美国人靠着SNAP的平均福利水平，也就是每月134美元（约合877元人民币）过着舒适的生活吗？
Still, let’s pretend to take this seriously. If employment is down because government aid is inducing people to stay home, reducing the labor force, then the law of supply and demand should apply: withdrawing all those workers should be causing labor shortages and rising wages, especially among the low-paid workers most likely to receive aid. In reality, of course, wages are stagnant or declining — and that’s especially true for the groups that benefit most from food stamps.
不过，我们还是假装认真对待这种观点。如果就业率下降是因为政府补助在诱惑人们待在家里，减少劳动力，那么供需定律就应该适用：撤走所有的劳工应当会引发劳工短缺和工资上涨，尤其是那些最可能接受补助的薪酬较低的劳工。然而，事实上，工资要么没有变化，要不在下降——对于那些从食品券获得最多好处的群体来说，尤其如此。
So what’s going on here? Is it just racism? No doubt the old racist canards — like Ronald Reagan’s image of the “strapping young buck” using food stamps to buy a T-bone steak — still have some traction. But these days almost half of food stamp recipients are non-Hispanic whites; in Tennessee, home of the Bible-quoting Mr. Fincher, the number is 63 percent. So it’s not all about race.
那么，到底是怎么回事？只是种族主义吗？毫无疑问，旧时的种族主义谣言——比如说，罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)所描述的“魁梧的年轻黑人”使用食品券买丁骨牛排的画面——仍有些影响。但现在，几乎半数的食品券领取者是非西语裔白人；在田纳西州，引用圣经的芬彻的老家，这一比例达到63%。所以不全是关乎种族。
What is it about, then? Somehow, one of our nation’s two great parties has become infected by an almost pathological meanspiritedness, a contempt for what CNBC’s Rick Santelli, in the famous rant that launched the Tea Party, called “losers.” If you’re an American, and you’re down on your luck, these people don’t want to help; they want to give you an extra kick. I don’t fully understand it, but it’s a terrible thing to behold.
那是关于什么呢？不知怎么的，我们国家两个伟大的政党之一感染上了一种几近病态的小气心理，一种对于“失败者”的鄙夷（CNBC的里克·圣泰利[Rick Santelli]在推动茶党建立的著名痛骂中言及了这个字眼）。如果你是美国人，而正好你不走运，这些人不想帮忙；他们想再给你一脚。我不是完全理解这一点，这也不是我愿看到的糟糕场景。