TOKYO — Investigators in Japan have arrested a tourist from New York in connection with the discovery of a human head and other body parts that were found during a search for a missing Japanese woman, officials said.
东京——官员称，日本的调查人员逮捕了一名来自纽约的游客，他与警方在搜寻一名失踪的日本女子时发现的人头及其他人体部位有关联。
The man, Yevgeniy Vasilievich Bayraktar, 26, gave the police information that led them to mountainous areas of Osaka and Kyoto prefectures, where they found severed arms, legs and a torso, according to local news reports.
据当地新闻报道，这个名叫叶夫根尼·瓦西里耶维奇·巴伊拉克塔尔(Yevgeniy Vasilievich Bayraktar)的26岁男子提供的信息引导警方前往大阪和京都的山区，警方在那些地方发现了割下的断臂、断腿以及身体躯干。
In an interview with Nippon TV in New York, Mr. Bayraktar’s parents told the network that their son loved Japan and wanted to marry a Japanese woman, and they said he would never commit a murder.
嫌疑人的父母在纽约接受日本电视台(Nippon TV)采访时表示，他们的儿子热爱日本，还想娶日本女人，并称他绝不会犯谋杀罪。
Mr. Bayraktar was apparently the last person seen with the woman, a 27-year-old office worker who was reported missing on Feb. 16. The Japan Times reported that he had admitted to disposing of her body, and it quoted investigators as saying that her head, found in a suitcase in short-term private lodging, had been cut by a knife.
这名男子显然是最后一个被看见与这位2月16日被报失踪的27岁办公室女职员在一起的人。据《日本时报》(Japan Times)报道，他已承认处理过她的尸体，报纸还引用了调查人员的原话称，他们在一处短期民宿的行李箱内发现了她被刀割下的脑袋。
The Asahi Shimbun newspaper reported that the man had traveled to Japan several times before and was in the country for sightseeing. It said he had been in contact with several women through dating apps, through which he met the 27-year-old woman.
据《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)报道，该男子此前曾多次赴日观光旅游。报纸称他通过约会应用与多名女性联系，也正是通过同样的途径认识了这名27岁的女性。
Mr. Bayraktar, who arrived in Japan in January, was arrested Thursday on charges of confining the woman against her will. During an interrogation by the police, he told them he had abandoned the woman’s body, The Japan Times reported. The newspaper said he subsequently led officers to locations where they found the body parts, and that he now faces charges of disposing of and damaging a body.
嫌疑人1月抵达日本，本周四被控强迫监禁这名女子而遭到逮捕。据《日本时报》报道，在警方的审讯中，该男子表示自己已将这位女性的尸体丢弃。报纸称其随后指引警方去了发现身体各部位的地点，现正面临处理和毁坏尸体罪的指控。
The woman’s head was found Saturday in a suitcase at a short-term lodging facility, or minpaku, in the Nishinari ward of the city of Osaka, investigators told the local news media. That area has long drawn homeless people and day laborers, but more recently it has attracted backpackers and other low-budget travelers who stay at minpaku on a short-term basis.
调查人员告诉当地新闻媒体，周六在大阪西成区一家短租民宿的行李箱内发现了这名女子的头颅。该地区长期吸引着流浪汉和临时工，但近来吸引了背包客和穷游者来民宿短期住宿。
The involvement of a minpaku in the gruesome case is likely to add to growing concerns in Japan about the proliferation of such residences, which are advertised on the web on sites like Airbnb.
这起骇人事件中有民宿的牵扯，可能会增加日本对此类住宿激增而加剧的担忧，此类住宅的广告在互联网上通过像爱彼迎(Airbnb)这样的网站发布。
Such short-term rentals are only allowed in designated zones, but many owners and renters operate minpaku residences illegally, and critics have called them breeding grounds for illicit activity. Starting in June, such residences must be registered with local governments.
此类短期租住仅允许在指定区域内进行，但许多业主和租赁人都在非法经营着民宿，批评人士曾将其称为非法活动的滋生地。从6月份起，此类居所必须向地方政府注册登记。
The arrest comes four months after Japan was transfixed by another grisly case, in which the dismembered bodies of nine people were found in coolers and other containers, in some cases covered in cat litter. A 27-year-old man identified as Takahiro Shiraishi was arrested in connection with those killings.
在本次逮捕的四个月前，日本才发生了另一起令人震惊的恐怖事件，9具被肢解的尸体被发现藏于冷藏箱及其他容器内，有些还被盖上了猫砂。一名确认名叫白石隆浩(Takahiro Shiraishi)的27岁男子因涉嫌杀人被捕。
Investigators said that Mr. Shiraishi had confessed to finding the victims, who he said had been considering suicide, on Twitter.
检方表示，白石隆浩承认通过Twitter来寻找那些一直在考虑自杀的受害者。