WASHINGTON — The days of airline passengers being hounded to turn off their tablets or e-readers for takeoff and landing are coming to an end.
华盛顿——之前，在飞机起降期间，乘客们总被要求关掉平板电脑和电子阅读器。这样的日子就快要结束了。
On Thursday, the Federal Aviation Administration announced that passengers would be able to use electronic devices to listen to music, read and play games in all phases of flight, though the ban on using cellphones to talk and text will remain.
本周四，美国联邦航空管理局（Federal Aviation Administration，简称FAA）宣布，乘客可以在整个飞行过程中使用电子设备听音乐，阅读和玩电子游戏。但是他们仍然禁止乘客使用手机打电话和发短信。
The normally conservative F.A.A. moved with unexpected speed in changing its policy, after an advisory committee recommended it a month ago, and the agency won unusually broad praise from pilots, flight attendants and members of Congress, along with passengers.
FAA一向保守，但此次他们意外地快速调整了自己的政策。一个月之前，该局听取了顾问委员会的相关建议。此举赢得了来自飞行员，乘务员，议员和乘客的一致称赞，实属难得。
The changes will most likely take effect before the end of the year, the F.A.A. said, after airlines determine that their aircraft can tolerate the interference.
FAA称，这项调整很可能于今年底之前落实。在此之前，各家航空公司需要确认自家飞机可以耐受相关干扰。
Passengers will still be prohibited from browsing the web and checking email once the plane’s doors have been closed and until its Wi-Fi network has been turned on, usually above 10,000 feet.
但是，在舱门关闭后，舱内Wi-Fi系统打开之前，乘客仍然不得上网浏览和查邮件。一般来说，只有飞机上升到10,000英尺之后Wi-Fi系统才会打开。
The administrator of the F.A.A., Michael P. Huerta, said he expected that, with rare exceptions, airlines would allow the use of tablets, MP3 players and smartphones in “airplane mode,” with their cell network connections turned off. The airlines will have to conduct tests on their equipment and submit the results to the F.A.A. for approval, he said at a news conference at Ronald Reagan National Airport, outside Washington.
联邦航空管理局负责人迈克尔·P·胡尔塔(Michael P. Huerta)表示，除非遇到特殊情况，他预计航空公司能够允许乘客在“飞行模式”下，也就是关掉网络连接的情况下，使用平板电脑，MP3播放器和智能手机。各家航空公司将会对各自的设备进行测试，并将结果报送联邦航空管理局审批。胡尔塔是在华盛顿郊外的罗纳德·里根国家机场(Ronald Reagan National Airport)的新闻发布会上作出上述表示的。
Soon after Mr. Huerta spoke, Delta Air Lines and JetBlue announced that they had submitted plans for passengers to use electronics in flight. JetBlue also planned to introduce a high-capacity Wi-Fi service by the end of the year that may work at lower altitudes, said a spokeswoman, Jennifer Dervin.
胡尔塔发布声明后不久，达美航空(Delta Air Lines)和捷蓝航空(JetBlue)均宣布，他们已经提交了关于乘客在飞行过程中使用电子设备的计划书。捷蓝航空发言人珍妮佛·德文(Jennifer Dervin)还表示，他们计划于年底之前配置高容量Wi-Fi系统，可能能够在较低高度使用。
The rule banning use of personal electronic devices during some parts of the flight had become an increasing source of frustration for passengers who saw it as outdated in a technology-dependent age, a point that Mr. Huerta acknowledged.
在某些飞行阶段禁止使用个人电子设备，这一规定越来越让乘客们感到沮丧。乘客认为，在这个人们十分依赖科技的时代，这项禁令已经过时了。对此，胡尔塔表示认同。
Jodi Fleisig, who lives in Atlanta with her husband and two boys, ages 11 and 9, welcomed the change. “It's great when you have kids, because you can get them settled in and settled down, and it makes a huge difference in the quality of the flight,” she said. “They can play games on their iPads, or they can read or watch a movie.”
乔迪·弗雷西格(Jodi Fleisig)跟先生，以及11岁和9岁的两个儿子一起，居住在亚特兰大。她对这项政策调整表示欢迎。她说，“如果带着小孩子旅行，能用电子设备太重要了。因为这样你能够让他们坐下来，坐定了，整个飞行经验的质量也会因此提高。小孩子能够玩他们iPad上的游戏，或者看书和电影。”
Fleisig, a senior vice president at Porter Novelli, a public relations firm, added that, “As a business traveler, I'm in the air a lot, and the fact that I can sit down and start working right away and get incredible amounts of work done is a lifesaver.”
弗雷西格是公关公司培恩公关(Porter Novelli)的高级副总裁。她还说，“作为商务旅客，我的飞行次数很多，如果我能够坐下来直接开始工作，完成大量的工作，这简直是帮了大忙。”
Mr. Huerta stressed that passengers would be told to turn off their electronics when the flight attendants gave preflight safety briefings about what to do in an emergency, and that the airlines would have to develop new rules about stowing electronics during takeoff and landing.
胡尔塔强调，乘务员在起飞之前，向乘客介绍紧急情况安全须知的时候，会要求乘客关掉他们的电子设备。同时，航空公司也必须制定新的办法，规定如何在飞机起降阶段安全放置电子设备。
While flight attendants have no effective way to determine whether a cellphone or tablet is really in airplane mode during flight, Mr. Huerta said, “There’s no safety problem if they’re not, but you’re going to arrive at your destination with a dead battery,” because the device would continue looking for a cell connection and would not find it.
胡尔塔说，在飞行过程中，虽然乘务员无从判断手机或者平板电脑是否处于飞行模式，“就算电子设备不在飞行模式，也不存在安全问题，只不过等你到达目的地的时候，就会发现电池已经耗光了。”这是因为你的设备会不停寻找手机信号，而且肯定找不着。
Mr. Huerta also noted that change would not be universal. “In some instances of low visibility, 1 percent of flights, some landing systems may not be proven to tolerate the interference,” he said. “In those cases, passengers may be asked to turn off personal electronic devices.”
胡尔塔同时指出，这项政策调整也有例外。他说，“在一些能见度较低的情况下，1%的航班，他们的着陆系统不一定能够承受电子设备的干扰。在这些情况下，我们要求乘客关掉他们的个人电子设备。”
Mr. Huerta said the airlines had favored the change, to “enhance the customer experience,” but that they did not have a uniform position. The industry’s main trade association, Airlines for America, supported the decision in a statement.
胡尔塔说，航空公司都支持这项调整，“这能够提升乘客的体验”，虽然航空公司的立场并不完全一致。航空业的主要行业协会，全美航空协会(Airlines for America)发表声明，支持这一决定。
Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat who had pressed for the change, praised the announcement as well. “This is great news for the traveling public,” she said in a statement, “and frankly, a win for common sense.”
来自密苏里州的民主党参议员克莱尔·麦卡斯基尔(Claire McCaskill)一直推动此项变革。她对FAA的声明同样表示赞许。她在一份声明中说，“对于需要旅行的公众来说，这是一则好消息。坦率的说，这也是常识的胜利。”
The new rule applies to all United States carriers. The European Aviation Safety Agency, which participated on the F.A.A. review panel, said on Thursday it would analyze the decision before clarifying its own policy.
这项新规定适用于全美的航空公司。欧洲航空安全局(European Aviation Safety Agency)曾参与FAA的审议过程。周四，欧洲航空安全局表示，他们会在分析美国人的决定之后，重申欧洲的立场。
“The position the F.A.A. announced today is actually a step in the direction of the way it works in Europe,” Dominique Fouda, a spokesman for the European agency in Cologne, said in an email. In Europe, he said, “there is per se no ban” on the use of mobile phones and other personal electronic devices. Rather, it is the responsibility of the airlines to demonstrate that they do not interfere with cockpit equipment.
多米尼克·方达(Dominique Fouda)是位于科隆的欧洲航空安全局的发言人，他在一封电子邮件中表示，“美国联邦航空管理局今天公布的立场，事实上正是朝着欧洲现行的办法靠拢。”他表示，“现在并没有禁令”，限制手机和其他个人电子设备的使用。不过，各家航空公司有义务证明，使用这些设备，不会影响驾驶舱的各项仪器。
One winner in the new policy is Amazon, which makes the Kindle e-book reader and whose representative worked on the F.A.A. panel that made the recommendation. Drew Herdener, a spokesman, said: “We’ve been fighting for our customers on this issue for years — testing an airplane packed full of Kindles, working with the F.A.A. and serving as the device manufacturer on this committee. This is a big win for customers and, frankly, it’s about time.”
这项新规的一个赢家是亚马逊公司，该公司是电子阅读器金读(Kindle)的生产商，并派员加入了提供相关建议的FAA工作小组。该公司发言人德鲁·赫尔登那尔(Drew Herdener)表示，“为了我们消费者的利益，我们已经争取了好几年——跟FAA合作，在飞机上装满金读进行测试，并作为设备生产商参与到工作小组中来。这是消费者的重大胜利，老实讲，也是时候调整政策了。”