If you could go back to 1889 and strangle Adolf Hitler in his crib, would you do it? At one level, the answer is obvious. Of course, you should. If there had been no Hitler, presumably the Nazi Party would have lacked the charismatic leader it needed to rise to power. Presumably, there would have been no World War II, no Holocaust, no millions dead on the Eastern and Western fronts.
如果能回到1889年，掐死尚在襁褓中的阿道夫·希特勒(Adolf Hitler)，你会下手吗？从某方面看，答案显而易见。当然应该那么做。没有希特勒，纳粹党没有了一个极具煽动力的领袖，大概就无法夺得权力。大概也就不会有第二次世界大战，不会有大屠杀，不会有东西两线成百上千万的死难者。
But, on the other hand, if there were no World War II, you wouldn’t have had the infusion of women into the work force. You wouldn’t have had the G.I. Bill and the rapid expansion of higher education. You wouldn’t have had the pacification of Europe, Pax-Americana, which led to decades of peace and prosperity, or the end of the British and other empires.
但是，转念一想，如果没有第二次世界大战，女性就不会渐渐汇入劳动力大军。不会有《退伍军人安置法案》(G.I. Bill)和高等教育的迅速扩张。你将看不到欧洲的平定和“美国治下之和平”(Pax-Americana)带来的几十年的平静与繁荣，亦或你也不会看到不列颠等帝国的终结。
History is an infinitely complex web of causations. To erase mistakes from the past is to obliterate your world now. You can’t go back and know then what you know now. You can’t step in the same river twice.
历史是一张无比纷杂的因果之网。要擦除过去的错误，就等于毁灭当下的世界。你不能回到过去，在当时就知道你现在才知道的事。你不能两次踏进同一条河。
So it’s really hard to give simple sound-bite answers about past mistakes. The question, would you go back and undo your errors is unanswerable. It’s only useful to ask, what wisdom have you learned from your misjudgments that will help you going forward?
因此，对于过去的错误，我们很难给出一个言简意赅的答案。你是否会回到过去，纠正自己的错误，这个问题是无法回答的。唯一有意义的问题是，从过去的误判中你得到了什么经验，能助你继续前行。
Which brings us to Iraq. From the current vantage point, the decision to go to war was a clear misjudgment, made by President George W. Bush and supported by 72 percent of the American public who were polled at the time. I supported it, too.
这就让我们想到了伊拉克。事情发展到今天，我们可以清楚地看到当初的战争决策是错误的，那个决策由乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统提出，在民调中得到了72%的美国民众支持。我当时也是一名支持者。
What can be learned?
得到的教训是什么？
The first obvious lesson is that we should look at intelligence products with a more skeptical eye. There’s a fable going around now that the intelligence about Iraqi weapons of mass destruction was all cooked by political pressure, that there was a big political conspiracy to lie us into war.
首先我们认识到，应该带着一种怀疑的眼光看待情报成果。如今坊间流传的一个说法是，有关伊拉克大规模杀伤性武器的情报，全都是在政治压力下捏造出来的，那场战争的背后，有一个向我们撒下弥天大谎的政治阴谋。
That doesn’t gibe with the facts. Anybody conversant with the Robb-Silberman report from 2005 knows that this was a case of human fallibility. This exhaustive, bipartisan commission found “a major intelligence failure”: “The failure was not merely that the Intelligence Community’s assessments were wrong. There were also serious shortcomings in the way these assessments were made and communicated to policy makers.”
但这和事实并不相符。了解2005年罗伯-希尔博曼(Robb-Silberman)报告的人都知道，这是一个人类易谬性的案例。那份详尽的两党调查报告发现了“一个重大情报失误”：“情报界的评估失误远非问题的全部。情报的评估以及与决策者的沟通，都存在严重缺陷。”
The Iraq war error reminds us of the need for epistemological modesty. We don’t know much about the world, and much of our information is wrong. A successful president has to make decisions while radiating hesitancy, staying open-minded in the face of new evidence, not falling into the traps that afflict those who possess excessive self-confidence.
伊拉克战争的错谬提醒我们，要保持谦卑的认知态度。我们对世界的了解并不多，有很多信息还是错误的。一个成功的总统应该在踌躇中做出决策，随时准备接纳新的证据，不要落入那些为过度自信的人设下的圈套。
The second lesson of Iraq concerns this question: How much can we really change other nations? Every foreign policy dilemma involves a calibration. Should we lean forward to try to influence this or that region? Or should we hang back figuring we’ll just end up making everything worse.
伊拉克给我们的另一个教训是要思考这个问题：我们能在多大程度上改变其他国家？任何一个外交政策窘境都是可以度量的。我们是应该走上前去，影响这个或那个地区？还是因为担心可能会把一切变得更糟，而驻足不前？
After the 1990s, many of us were leaning in the interventionist direction. We’d seen the fall of the apartheid regime, which made South Africa better. We’d seen the fall of communist regimes, which made the Eastern bloc nations better. Many of us thought that, by taking down Saddam Hussein, we could end another evil empire, and gradually open up human development in Iraq and the Arab world.
自1990年代以来，我们中有许多人倾向于干涉主义。我们看到支持种族隔离的政权倒台，让南非有了改善。我们看到共产主义政权的倒台，让东欧诸国有了改善。我们心想，如果能推翻萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)，就能终结又一个邪恶帝国，开始逐步改善伊拉克乃至阿拉伯世界的人类发展状况。
Has that happened? In 2004, I would have said yes. In 2006, I would have said no. In 2015, I say yes and no, but mostly no.
这种设想有没有出现呢？放在2004年，我会说有。在2006年，我会说没有。2015年，我说有，也没有，但基本上没有。
The outcome, so far, in Iraq should remind us that we don’t really know much about how other cultures will evolve. We can exert only clumsy and indirect influence on how other nations govern themselves. When you take away basic order, people respond with sectarian savagery.
伊拉克今天的局面提醒我们，我们其实不太了解其他文化会如何演进。我们只能对他国的治理施加生硬而间接的影响。当你打破一地的基本秩序时，人民会用宗派性的野蛮来应对。
If the victory in the Cold War taught us to lean forward and be interventionist, the legacy of the 2003 Iraq decision should cause us to pull back from the excesses of that mentality, to have less faith in America’s ability to understand other places and effect change.
如果说冷战的胜利让我们学会了主动出击，做一个干涉主义者，那么2003年伊拉克战争决策留给我们的，就是要把这种过度的干预思维收一收，对美国理解其他地区和促成变化的能力，不要太过有信心。
These are all data points in a larger education — along with the surge and the recent withdrawals from Iraq and Afghanistan. I wind up in a place with less interventionist instincts than where George W. Bush was in 2003, but significantly more interventionist instincts than where President Obama is inclined to be today.
这些都是一场更大范围内的教育中的数据点——此外还有向伊拉克和阿富汗的增兵，以及近期的撤军。现在的我不像2003年的乔治·W·布什，有那么强烈的干涉主义本能，但也不至于要像眼下的奥巴马总统这样，如此拒绝这种本能。
Finally, Iraq teaches us to be suspicious of leaders who try to force revolutionary, transformational change. It teaches us to have respect for trimmers, leaders who pay minute attention to context, who try to lead gradual but constant change. It teaches us to honor those who respect the unfathomable complexity of history and who are humble in the face of consequences to their actions that they cannot fully predict or understand.
总而言之，伊拉克告诉我们，当一个领导人企图强行实现革命性的、天翻地覆的变化时，我们要提高警惕。它告诉我们要尊重修修补补的人，也就是那些细致考虑背景情况，试图带来渐进性、持续性变化的领导人。它告诉我们，对历史的错综复杂心存敬畏的人，谨慎看待自己的行为所产生的影响，知道自己无法全然预测或理解行动后果的人，理应得到我们的赞美。