Federal authorities were dealt a setback this week in their yearlong crackdown on a growing niche business of buying luxury cars in the United States for quick resale in China at markups of as much as triple the initial purchase price.
联邦当局在对一种偏门生意进行了长达一年的打击之后，本周遭遇挫折。在美国购买豪华车，然后以高达两倍的加价幅度快速转售到中国，这种活动正在日益增多。
A judge in Ohio issued a ruling on Monday that ordered the federal government to return money and cars it seized last September from a Los Angeles-based automotive export business involved in reselling newly purchased Porsches, Range Rovers and other luxury cars to wealthy buyers in overseas markets.
俄亥俄州一名法官周一做出裁决，要求联邦政府归还它去年9月从一家汽车出口商那里收缴的资金和汽车。这家汽车出口商总部设在洛杉矶，参与了向海外市场富裕买家转售新购保时捷(Porsche)、路虎(Range Rover)等豪华车的行为。
Federal prosecutors contend the company, Automotive Consultants of Hollywood, violated federal wire fraud laws by using foreign money to defraud American car dealers into selling them vehicles that were intended solely for domestic use. The authorities say that the approximately $1.16 million held by the company in a Wells Fargo bank account could be traced to international customers taking part in the scheme, which involved Automotive Consultants using “straw buyers” to purchase vehicles so the cars could then be quickly shipped overseas.
联邦检察官指出，这家名为“好莱坞汽车咨询”(Automotive Consultants of Hollywood)的公司利用外国资金，欺骗美国汽车经销商，销售仅限在美国境内使用的车辆，违反了联邦电信欺诈法。联邦政府说，该公司在富国银行(Wells Fargo)账户中的大约116万美元（约合人民币720元）可以追溯到参与这个骗局的国际客户头上；好莱坞汽车咨询公司利用“代购”方式购车，这样车辆就可以快速发货到海外。
But Judge Sandra S. Beckwith of the Federal District Court for the Southern District of Ohio said that prosecutors had failed to produce sufficient evidence of wrongdoing by the car export company to justify the asset freeze.
但俄亥俄州南区联邦地区法院(Federal District Court)的法官桑德拉·S·贝克卫斯(Sandra S. Beckwith)说，检察官未能提供这家汽车出口公司存在不当行为的充分证据，无法证明冻结其资产的合理性。
“There is nothing inherently illegal about using wire transfers to move money, nor about wires from foreign sources,” Judge Beckwith wrote in a 26-page ruling. “The court must conclude that the United States has not established probable cause to believe the funds seized are the ‘proceeds’ of wire or mail fraud.”
“使用电汇转移资金本身并不违法，从外国电汇资金也不违法。”贝克卫斯法官在一份26页的裁决书中写道。“法院必然得出这样的结论：美国政府尚未提供可信的原因，让人相信被扣押的资金是电信或邮件欺诈‘所得’。”
The ruling in the Ohio case is significant because it is one of the first to challenge the legality of the seizures of vehicles being conducted by agents with the Secret Service and Department of Homeland Security. Judge Beckwith’s ruling applies only to the lawsuit filed by the Justice Department against Automotive Consultants, but it has the potential to complicate similar seizure actions that federal authorities are pursuing in other states including Florida, New York, South Carolina and Texas.
俄亥俄州这个案件的裁决具有重要意义，因为它属于第一批对特勤局(Secret Service)和国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)特工扣押车辆的做法是否合法提出挑战的案件。贝克卫斯法官的裁决只适用于司法部(Justice Department)诉好莱坞汽车咨询公司的这起官司，但它有可能让联邦当局正在其他州寻求的类似收缴行动变得复杂，这些州包括佛罗里达、纽约、南卡罗莱纳和德克萨斯。
“Being the first ruling of its kind in the auto export sector, it will get attention from other courts,” said Ely Goldin, one of Automotive Consultant’s lawyers who is with the firm Fox Rothschild. “The judge was taken aback by this entire investigation.”
“作为汽车出口行业第一项此种裁决，它会引起其他法院的注意。”福罗律师事务所(Fox Rothschild)的埃利·戈尔丁(Ely Goldin)说，他是好莱坞汽车咨询公司的律师之一。“整个调查让这位法官大吃一惊。”
A year ago, the Secret Service and the Department of Homeland Security began a broad crackdown on this “gray market” export business, which is estimated by some to be responsible for sending as many as 35,000 new luxury cars a year from the United States to China, Russia and other countries. The business has grown because newly purchased Porches, Range Rovers, BMWs and Mercedes can be resold to wealthy buyers in foreign countries for as much as three times the sticker price in the United States, especially for models that are in demand.
一年前，特勤局和国土安全部开始对这个出口领域的“灰色市场”展开大范围打击，一些人估计，美国每年通过这种方式销往中国、俄罗斯等国的全新豪华汽车多达3.5万辆。这种业务得到了蓬勃发展，因为把新购的保时捷、路虎、宝马(BMW)和奔驰(Mercedes)转卖给国外的富有买主，售价可以高达美国标价的三倍，特别是一些热门车型。
Federal authorities suspect some of the money being used by companies in America to purchase cars is coming from foreign buyers looking to launder money. The New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, is looking into claims that some car salesmen in New York and New Jersey took kickbacks in return for selling luxury cars to export companies.
联邦当局怀疑，一些公司在美国购买汽车的资金来自有意洗钱的国外买主。有人称纽约和新泽西一些汽车销售员收取回扣，把豪华车销售给出口公司，纽约州总检察长埃里克·T·施耐德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)正在对此进行调查。
The origins of the government’s crackdown on luxury car exporters is unclear. Federal authorities briefed on the matter but not authorized to discuss the situation said the effort was not being coordinated by the Justice Department and was more the case of individual jurisdictions going after a business activity that appeared questionable. Advocates for the automotive export companies have claimed that the federal government is responding to complaints from the auto manufacturers who are looking to defend their turf.
政府对豪华汽车出口商开展打击的起因尚不清楚。了解此事、但无权讨论相关情况的联邦官员说，这个行动没有通过司法部进行协调，更像是个别司法管辖区对一种看似可疑的商业活动进行调查。这些汽车出口公司的支持者称，联邦政府是在对汽车制造商的投诉做出回应，这些汽车制造商正在努力捍卫自己的地盘。
One of those companies, Jaguar Land Rover North America, recently sent a six-page letter to its franchise auto dealerships that imposes a new series of penalties for selling a car to an export firm as of April 1. The six-page letter puts the burden on dealerships in the United States to police its customers and do adequate due diligence to determine whether a buyer is a “high risk” of working for an export company.
捷豹路虎北美公司(Jaguar Land Rover North America)就是其中一家制造商，它最近给其特许汽车经销商发了一封6页长的信，称从4月1日起对销售车辆给出口公司的行为实施一系列新的处罚。这份6页长的信件让美国汽车经销商承担起监督自己客户的责任，充分做好尽职调查，以识别买主是否有“较高的可能性”是在为一家出口公司效力。
Stuart Schorr, a spokesman for Jaguar Land Rover, said the letter was a response to the increased export activity for luxury cars sold in the country. The export companies counter that these businesses are merely taking advantage of an arbitrage in the difference between the price for luxury cars in the United States and overseas markets. These people contend that if the companies are using deception to purchase vehicles, such as using straw buyers to pretend to buy cars for themselves, it should be the auto manufacturers, and not federal prosecutors, who should pursue litigation.
捷豹路虎的发言人斯图尔特·斯科尔(Stuart Schorr)说，针对美国销售的豪华车被越来越多地出口到国外，这封信就是对这种情况的回应。而出口公司反驳说，这种生意只是利用豪华车在美国和海外市场之间的价格差套利。他们争辩说，如果公司使用欺骗手段来购买车辆，比如使用“代购”方式假装成给自己买车，那么就应该是汽车制造商而不是联邦检察官来发起诉讼。
Judge Beckwith, in her ruling, seemed sympathetic to the argument that these export cases should not concern the federal government. But she declined to dismiss the pending civil forfeiture lawsuit against the export company, even as she ordered the bank account unfrozen and the return of two cars that Automotive Consultants had purchased from dealerships in the Cincinnati area.
从贝克卫斯法官的裁决来看，她似乎认同这样的说法：这种出口活动不应该牵涉到联邦政府。不过，即便她下令解冻好莱坞汽车咨询公司的银行账户，归还它从辛辛那提地区经销商那里购买的两辆汽车，她仍然拒绝撤销针对该公司提出的尚未审结的民事没收诉讼。
A spokesman for the United States attorney’s office for the Southern District of Ohio said the office was reviewing its options after Judge Beckwith’s ruling.
俄亥俄州南区美国检察官办公室的发言人说，贝克卫斯法官做出裁决之后，该办公室正在考虑它面前的各种选择。