WASHINGTON — The Obama administration has told allies and lawmakers it is considering reining in a variety of National Security Agency practices overseas, including holding White House reviews of the world leaders the agency is monitoring, forging a new accord with Germany for a closer intelligence relationship and minimizing collection on some foreigners.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府告诉盟友和议员，他们正在考虑控制国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的各种海外活动，其中包括让白宫对NSA正在监听的世界领导人进行评估，与德国达成一项新协议，以建立更紧密的情报关系，尽量减少对一些外国人的情报收集活动。
But for now, President Obama and his top advisers have concluded that there is no workable alternative to the bulk collection of huge quantities of “metadata,” including records of all telephone calls made inside the United States.
但是，就目前而言，奥巴马总统和他的首席顾问认为，搜集海量“元数据”的大规模工作还没有可行的替代品。这些元数据还包括美国境内的所有通话记录。
Instead, the administration has hinted it may hold that information for only three years instead of five while it seeks new technologies that would permit it to search the records of telephone and Internet companies, rather than collect the data in bulk in government computers. Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the director of the N.S.A., has told industry officials that developing the new technology would take at least three years.
政府暗示，它可能会将这些信息的保留期限从五年减到三年，同时开发新的技术，以便搜索电话和网络公司记录，而不是把大量数据储存在政府的电脑里。NSA局长基思·B·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith B. Alexander)告诉业内官员，研发这项新技术至少需要三年。
Mr. Obama has said nothing publicly about specific steps he is weighing in response to the disclosures of the N.S.A. practices by Edward J. Snowden, the former contractor who downloaded and turned over to journalists tens of thousands of documents concerning the agency.
奥巴马并未公开表示，他将就爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)对NSA行动的披露采取什么应对措施。斯诺登是前NSA承包商雇员，下载了有关NSA的数万份文件，并将这些材料交给了记者。
But protests from business executives, who told Mr. Obama last week at a White House meeting that they feared the N.S.A. revelations would lead to billions of dollars in lost business in Europe and Asia — and angry responses to the revelations that the United States was monitoring the cellphone of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany — have forced a rethinking inside the White House.
但是，一些商界高管上周在白宫的一次会议上告诉奥巴马，他们担心NSA文件的泄露将使他们在欧亚地区损失数十亿美元的业务。这些商界高管的抗议，以及美国监听德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)手机的行为曝光所引起的愤怒反应，迫使白宫内部开始反思。
A spokeswoman for the National Security Council, Caitlin M. Hayden, said Monday that the reviews now underway are intended to assure “that we are more effectively weighing the risks and rewards of our activities.” That includes, she said, “ensuring that we are focused above all on threats to the American people.”
国家安全委员会(National Security Council)女发言人特琳·M·海登(Caitlin M. Hayden)周一表示，正在进行的评估旨在确保“我们能更有效地权衡行动的风险与回报”。她说，评估目的包括“保证我们会首先关注针对美国人民的威胁”。
In public testimony, General Alexander and the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., have shown little willingness to make major changes, apart from agreeing to more oversight and public disclosure of some decisions by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. The White House has pressed for more. Nonetheless, the actions contemplated inside the administration seem unlikely to quell the protests in Europe or assuage critics at home.
亚历山大上将和国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)并未公开表露什么做出重大改变的意愿，只同意对外国情报监视法院(ForeignIntelligence Surveillance Court)的一些决定进行更严格的监督，并向公众透露更多信息。白宫一直在敦促有关部门采取更多措施。但是，政府内部酝酿的举措似乎无法平息欧洲的抗议，也无法安抚国内的批评者。
The details of an intelligence accord with Germany — which German officials seem more enthusiastic to negotiate than their American counterparts — are unlikely to be revealed publicly, or to end the suspicion that the American monitoring of scores or hundreds of German leaders has been discontinued.
与德国的情报协议的细节——德国官员似乎比美国官员更急于达成这一协议——不太可能会被公开，也不太可能让人们相信，美国对数十乃至数百名德国领导人的监听已经停止。
The sharpest public criticism of the N.S.A. from within the administration has come from one of the chief clients for its intelligence reports: Secretary of State John Kerry. “The president and I have learned of some things that have been happening in many ways on an automatic pilot, because the technology is there and the ability is there,” Mr. Kerry said last week, adding that “some of these actions have reached too far.”
美国政府内部公开批评NSA的最尖锐声音来自NSA情报报告的主要用户之一——国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)。克里在上周表示，“总统和我已经获悉，一些行动在以各种方式机械开展，就因为我们有这样的技术和能力。”他还表示，“其中一些行动有些过火。”
A senior administration official said that Mr. Kerry’s “automatic pilot” reference “went beyond our talking points,” but added that the president agreed and “has already made some decisions,” which have not been announced.
一名政府高级官员表示，克里关于“机械”的说法“超出了我们的话题”。但他补充说，总统对此表示赞同，“已经做了一些决策。”但政府尚未公布这些决策。
The administration’s reviews are being conducted in secrecy in part because of the secret nature of the N.S.A.’s operations. Initially, the reviews focused on domestic “bulk collection” programs begun after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, which eventually led to the N.S.A. program to collect the billing records of all calls, and, for a while, to collect a large volume of emails as well. (The email program ended, the N.S.A. says, in 2011.) In an interview last month, General Alexander said he was “open” to any alternative to having the government maintain that database of calls.
奥巴马政府秘密进行评估，部分是因为NSA行动的保密性质。起初，评估主要针对美国国内从2001年9·11袭击事件之后启动的“大规模搜集”项目，9·11事件最终催生了NSA的这个项目，开始搜集所有电话账单记录，还在一段时间内搜集了大量邮件。（NSA表示，他们在2011年终止了邮件项目。）亚历山大上将上个月接受采访时表示，如果有什么替代举措能让政府不用保留电话数据库，他“愿意接受”。
But General Alexander’s deputy, John C. Inglis, who has spent nearly three decades at the N.S.A. focused on the technology of intercepting and decoding foreign communications, told Congress last week that so far there was no satisfying alternative to a government library of calls and, seemingly by extension, text messages and many Internet searches.
但亚历山大上将的副手约翰·C·英格利斯(John C. Inglis)上周对国会(Congress)表示，到目前为止，还没有令人满意的选择能够替代政府的电话信息库，扩展开来说，这样的信息库似乎还应该包括短信及大量网络搜索。英格利斯在NSA待了将近三十年，主要负责外国通讯的拦截及破译技术。
“It needs to be the whole haystack,” Mr. Inglis said. If the United States was looking for the communications of a terrorism suspect, he said, “it needs to be such that when you make a query you come away confident that you have the whole answer.” White House officials say that changes to the foreign collection programs are easier.
英格利斯表示，“它必须能反映全貌。”他表示，如果美国需要寻找一个恐怖主义嫌犯的通讯信息，“它必须具有这样的特性，以便你在查询结束之后相信自己得到了全部答案。”白宫官员表示，对外国搜集项目做出改变比较容易。
German officials came to the White House last week, and have returned to Washington this week, in hopes of negotiating a deal similar to the kind that Britain, Australia, New Zealand and Canada have with the United States. German officials emerged from last week’s meetings at the White House talking about striking a deal within two months that included a “no spying” accord and greater intelligence sharing.
德国官员上周到访白宫，本周又来到了华盛顿，他们希望达成一项协议，类似于英国、澳大利亚、新西兰及加拿大与美国的协议。上周，德国官员在白宫参加了会议，会后表示他们将在两个月内达成协议，其中包括“不监视”共识，以及更广范围的情报共享。
Discussions are continuing this week, also in Washington, between senior German and American intelligence officials. But a senior administration official said, “We are not talking about an across-the-board ‘no spy’ agreement.” Instead, he said, “we need to work towards updated understandings between our two countries.”
德国和美国的高级情报官员本周继续在华盛顿进行讨论。但一名政府高级官员表示，“我们不是在讨论全面的‘不监视’协议，我们需要致力于增强我们两个国家之间的理解。”