Of all the falsehoods fouling the public discourse these days, one of the worst is that immigrants are a threat and a burden to the United States.
在当下充斥公共讨论的所有谎言中，最恶劣的一个是：移民是对美国的威胁，是一种负担。
It’s odd that many Americans seem to feel so badly about their own ancestors. But there’s no denying the nativist mood that has lifted Donald Trump to the top of the Republican presidential race. He slanders Mexican immigrants as drug dealers and rapists, calls America “a dumping ground” for foreigners and promises to make the country “great again” by getting rid of 11 million of them.
很多美国人似乎对自己的祖辈感到很不满，这很奇怪。但无可否认，美国存在着一种本土主义情绪。正是这种情绪让唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)在共和党内部的总统竞选中名列前茅。他诽谤移民是毒贩子和强奸犯，称美国是接收外国人的“垃圾场”，并承诺要赶走1100万外国人，好让美国“重新变得伟大”。
Mr. Trump’s rivals, far from rejecting his hatred, have joined the chorus. Ben Carson, echoing the anti-Catholic bigotry once directed at John F. Kennedy, says Muslims should not be president, because they would owe their allegiance to the Koran, not the Constitution. Jeb Bush, who married a Mexican woman and speaks fluent Spanish, denounced “multiculturalism.” Marco Rubio, son of Cuban immigrants, rules out a path to green cards and citizenship for unauthorized immigrants during his hypothetical presidency.
特朗普的竞争对手不仅没有反驳他的仇恨，反而随声附和。本·卡森(Ben Carson)重新提起那种曾经针对约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)的反天主教偏执，称穆斯林不应担任总统，因为他们要效忠的是《古兰经》，而非宪法。妻子是墨西哥裔，自己也能说一口流利西班牙语的杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)谴责“多元文化主义”。父母是古巴移民的马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)则称如果当上总统，自己不会让非法移民有获得绿卡和公民身份的途径。
“Immigration without assimilation is invasion,” says Bobby Jindal, repeatedly.
“没有同化的移民是入侵，”博比·金达尔(Bobby Jindal)反复说。
On and on, the fever rages. But this week, a cool blast of reason blew in from outside the fray.
实在是一派群情激奋的景象。但本周，一股冷静的理智从外面传了进来。
A team of scholars presented exhaustive evidence that anti-immigrant bigotry is baseless and that the truism about America as a melting pot is – no kidding – still true.
一队学者提出了全面的证据，证明反移民偏执是没有根据的，并表示说美国是一个大熔炉的老生常谈——说真的——依然是符合现实的。
A 443-page study published on Monday by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine is the most sweeping survey of immigrant integration in nearly 20 years. You can read it here, or take the highlights from Julia Preston’s article in The Times.
周一，国家科学、工程和医学学院(National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine)发表了一份长达443页的论文。这是近20年里对移民融合进行的最全面的调查。可以点击此处阅读全文，也可以在朱莉娅·普雷斯顿(Julia Preston)发表在时报上的文章中了解论文的要点。
The basic conclusion is that the machinery of American assimilation is working pretty well after nearly two and a half centuries.
基本的结论是，近两个半世纪后，美国的同化这台机器运转得非常好。
The scholars looked “across all measurable outcomes,” like education, wages and mastery of English, and found that recent immigrants were assimilating at least as quickly as their 20th-century European predecessors. They want to learn English, and their children and grandchildren invariably do. They commit fewer crimes than the native-born, and are generally healthier.
学者们研究了“所有可以衡量的结果”，如教育、工资水平和对英语的掌握程度，发现最近的移民的同化速度至少和20世纪时的欧洲前辈一样快。他们想学英语，他们的子女和孙辈也一样。他们的犯罪率比土生土长的美国人低，并且还普遍更健康。
“Immigrants’ education levels, the diversity of their jobs, their wages and their mastery of English improved as they lived for more time in the United States, and the gains were even greater for their American-born children,” Ms. Preston wrote.
“随着在美国生活的时间增加，移民的教育水平、工作多样性、工资水平和对英语的掌握程度都有所改善，他们在美国出生的后代的进步甚至更大，”普雷斯顿写道。
While Americans have always been afraid that new immigrants increase crime, “it has never been true,” said Mary C. Waters, a Harvard sociologist who led the panel.
领导该学者小组的哈佛大学社会学家玛丽·C·瓦特斯(Mary C. Waters)说，尽管美国人总是害怕新移民会导致犯罪增加，但“这从来都不是事实”。
I have long wondered why Republican politicians who revel in the trappings of patriotism — flags and eagles and chants of “U.S.A.” — fail to see how unpatriotic their words can be. What is more un-American than hopelessness about our future, and a generalized hatred of the people who made — and make — this country great? Why do Republicans think there’s a place in American ideology and iconography for pickup trucks, cowboy hats and guns — but not the Statue of Liberty and what she explicitly represents?
很长一段时间以来，我一直想知道，陶醉在爱国主义标志——旗帜、鹰和“USA”的口号——中的共和党政治人物，为何看不出来自己的话可能有多么不爱国。对我们的未来不抱希望，对那些在过去和现在让这个国家变得伟大的人普遍心怀仇恨，还有什么比这更不美国的？为什么共和党人觉得，在美国的意识形态和图像志里可以有皮卡车、牛仔帽和枪，却没有自由女神像和她明确代表的含义的一席之地？
Actually, I shouldn’t say all Republicans.
实际上，我不应该说是所有共和党人。
Check this out, from Ronald Reagan, a powerful rebuttal to the whole G.O.P. field.
看看罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)，这是对整个共和党的有力反驳。