BEFORE anyone can buy a house with a loan from a bank or refinance a mortgage, the lender needs an objective assessment of the property’s value — after all, the home is the bank’s collateral for the loan. Assessing the value is the job of the appraiser.
任何人在买房前去银行办理贷款，或者想用房产作抵押向银行贷款，作为借款方的银行都需要对房产的价值做一个客观评估——毕竟，这栋房子对银行来说是贷款的抵押物。评估这些房子的价值，就是评估师的工作。
Appraising a home, particularly in New York City, is not simple. Similar apartments just a few blocks from one another can have very different values. The floor that a home is on, the kind of view or light it gets — each factor contributes to its value. The best appraisers are intimately familiar with the neighborhoods they work in.
在纽约市，评估一套房子的价值可是格外不容易的。相差区区几个街区的相似公寓，价值就可能有天壤之别。房子所在的楼层、视野和采光都需考虑在内——因为每个因素都影响着房屋的价值。最优秀的评估师必须对其待评房产所在的街区非常熟悉。
Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the real estate appraisal firm Miller Samuel, says that with a co-op, he begins by examining the building’s financials: if there is likely to be an increase in maintenance or a special assessment, it might lower the appraisal.
米勒•萨缪尔(Miller Samuel)房地产评估公司的总裁乔纳森J.米勒(Jonathan J. Miller)说，对于一栋合作公寓（[co-op]，美国城市中低收入居民最主要的居住方式，居住者无产权——译注），他会先从房子的财务状况开始看起：如果房子的维修费用可能增加，或可能需要在某方面做一个特殊鉴定，房子的估价就会降低。
Apartments on higher floors are generally worth more than those on lower floors, particularly when they clear the tops of surrounding buildings, thus affording better views and more privacy, he says. Appraisers record the square footage, the number of bedrooms and bathrooms, and other basics, but they also consider the overall condition, deeming it poor, fair, average or good.  
他还说，所在楼层更高的公寓通常比层数低的更值钱，特别是当房子周围没有其他建筑环绕时。因为，这样的房子就具备了更好的景观和私密性。评估师要记录房子的面积，卧室与卫生间的数量，以及其它的基本条件。他们还会考虑整体环境，最终将房产分为较差(poor)、一般(fair)、中等(average)或很好(good)几档。
Owners who put in high-end finishes may be disappointed, because “there is no category for superexcellent,” said Roberta Axelrod, the director of residential sales and rentals for Time Equities. While some buyers may be willing to pay more for those finishes, she said, “there is a difference between what the market will perceive as adding value and what an appraiser will determine.”
时代资产公司(Time Equities)住宅销售与租赁部主管罗贝塔•阿克塞尔罗德(Roberta Axelrod)说，那些为高档装潢投入资金的房主可能要失望了，因为“并没有‘超级好’(superexcellent)这个分类”。虽然一些购房者可能愿意为那些豪华装修多付钱，但阿克塞尔罗德说：“被市场视为附加值的项目与评估师会认定的之间是有差异的。”
Once an appraiser has evaluated a home, he or she compares it with similar ones that have sold recently, known as comparables, or “comps.” These should be in the same building, or in one nearby in similar financial condition and with similar maintenance fees, Mr. Miller said. But in Manhattan, similar apartments a few blocks apart can have different values based on proximity to the subway or a park, or whether the building has a doorman or a gym.
米勒介绍说，房子的基本评估完成后，评估师还要将它同最近售出的类似房源进行比较，后者被称为“可比房产”(comparables)，或简称“comps”。这些comps应该位于同一栋、或处于相似财务状况的附近建筑里，物业费用也要接近。但是在曼哈顿，只差几个街区的相似公寓，价值就有可能完全不同。或是因为距离地铁或公园的远近，或是因为楼里有个健身中心，甚至一位门房。
In Bedford Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, for example, sales within a few-block radius can range from $250,000, for a dilapidated home. to $1 million for a renovated brownstone with original woodwork, said Sam Heskel, the executive vice president of the appraisal management firm HMS Associates.
房地产评估公司HMS Associates评估管理部的副主管山姆•赫斯克尔(Sam Heskel)举例说，在布鲁克贝德福德-斯特维森特(Bedford Stuyvesant)地区，仅在几个街区内，房屋售价就可以从一套破旧房屋的区区25万美元，达到一套翻修得非常高级、还带着原有木制装饰品的房屋所卖到的100万美元。
Market trends, also a factor in a home’s value, can be hard to pin down, especially if prices in a specific neighborhood rise quickly. Because it can take two or more months from the time a contract is signed on a home to the time appraisers learn of the offer, such fluctuations are not always reflected in the available comps. Appraisers can make what is called a time-adjustment to account for market shifts, but it may be hard to get a lender to accept it, Mr. Heskel said.
赫斯克尔还透露，市场趋势也是影响房屋价值的一个因素，但这个因素很难确定，特别是当某个地区的房价上升得很快时。这是因为，一般来说，从一份购房合同签署到评估师给出最后的报价，中间可能相隔两个月甚至更长时间。在这种情况下，既有的可比房产不一定总能反映出这样的价格波动。虽然评估师可以运用一种时间调整手段来体现市场的变化，但让借款方接受这样的修正可能很难。
The best thing a homeowner or broker can do to help the appraisal process is to prepare a one-page sheet for the appraiser that outlines the changes and repairs that the home has undergone since it was bought, Mr. Miller said.
米勒说，房主或经纪人要想促进评估过程顺利完成，他们所能做的最好的事就是为评估师准备一张单子，将购买房产后发生的全部变化和维修都描述出来。
Given the complexities of New York City real estate, having appraisers familiar with the neighborhoods in which they work is crucial. Unfortunately borrowers don’t always get them. When Shane Koss, a 38-year-old musician, and his wife, Dagmar Kostkova, a 38-year-old farmers’ market coordinator, had their offer accepted on a one-bedroom in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, in February 2012, they didn’t anticipate any problems. Then Mr. Koss received a call from the appraiser. He needed directions to Greenpoint.
由于纽约市的房地产市场非常复杂，这就要求评估师对所评估房产所在的社区非常熟悉，这对评估结果至关重要。不幸的是，不是所有需要贷款的人都能遇到好评估师的。2012年2月，38岁的音乐家肖恩•科斯(Shane Koss)和他的妻子，38岁的农贸市场协调员达格玛•科斯托娃(Dagmar Kostkova)得知，他们为购买布鲁克林Greenpoint地区一套一居室公寓所申请的贷款获得了批准。他们以为一切都没问题了。然后，科斯接到了评估师打来的电话，问他到Greenpoint应该怎么走。
The appraisal came in $15,000 under the $400,000 sale price that seller and buyer had agreed on. The loan officer at Quontic Bank suggested that the couple put down $15,000 more, but Mr. Koss and Ms. Kostkova refused. Discussions dragged on as the loan officer tried to get the appraisal amended. George Lazaridis, the president of the mortgage lending division of Quontic, says there is little a bank can do when an appraisal comes in low. Finally, after four months, the couple went to another bank and, with their Quontic loan officer working closely with the new lender to speed the process, closed two weeks later.
最终，评估价格比卖卖双方达成的40万美元售价低了1.5万美元。Quontic银行(Quontic Bank)的信贷业务员建议这对夫妻，把贷款额降低1.5万美元，但他们拒绝了。信贷业务员又试图让评估师调价，但讨论也陷入了僵局。Quontic银行抵押信贷部的主管乔治·拉扎里迪斯(George Lazaridis)说，如果评估的结果比成交价要低，那银行真是一点办法都没有。结果，这对夫妇在四个月后去了另一家银行申请贷款。在Quontic银行那位接待他们的信贷业务员的大力帮助下，新贷款方加快了处理流程，在两星期内就完成了全部手续。
These cases have become more common in recent years. In response to the housing crisis, Freddie Mac, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the New York attorney general’s office created the Home Valuation Code of Conduct, which prohibited loan officers from selecting and communicating with appraisers — a provision that has since become a federal regulation. Now most banks use appraisal management companies, which in turn bid jobs out to appraisers.
近年来，这样的案例变得越来越常见。为了应对房地产危机，房地美(Freddie Mac)、美国联邦住房金融管理局(Federal Housing Finance Agency)和纽约总检察长办公室(New York attorney general’s office)联合制定了《房产评估行为准则》(Home Valuation Code of Conduct)，其中明令禁止信贷业务员选择评估师，也不许他们与评估师进行交流——自此，这条规则便成为一条联邦禁令。现在，大多数银行都选择与评估管理公司合作，由这些公司轮流向评估师们通过招标分配工作任务。
Appraisers, brokers and even some lenders say this has only created more problems. David Fuller, the president of the New York State Society of Real Estate Appraisers, says that rather than being paid $400 for evaluating an apartment, an appraiser may receive only $250, with the appraisal management company keeping $150. This has driven experienced professionals out of the business. And the management companies, many of them national operations, have bid out jobs to appraisers unfamiliar with the nuances of New York City real estate.
然而，评估师和房产经纪人们说，这种方法只带来了更大的问题。甚至一些贷款银行也如此认为。纽约州房产评估师协会(New York State Society of Real Estate Appraisers)的会长大卫•富勒(David Fuller)说，在过去，评估师评估一套房子能拿到400美元的报酬，但现在只能拿到250美元，另外的150美元被评估管理公司拿走了。这导致很多经验丰富的专业评估师离开了这个行业。而且，很多评估管理公司是由国家经营的，他们经常会把评估工作交给那些并不熟悉纽约市房产市场复杂情况的评估师。
Allyson Knudsen, a senior vice president for national underwriting of Wells Fargo, says that it uses seven appraisal management companies, including one called Rels Valuation, in which it owns a minority stake. She says appraisers are generally familiar with the markets in which they work. She adds that Rels’s appraisals come in below purchase price about 9 percent of the time, versus an industrywide average of 12 percent.
阿利森•克努森(Allyson Knudsen)是富国银行(Wells Fargo)主管全国承销业务的高级副总裁。她说，富国银行与七家评估管理公司合作，其中一家叫做Rels Valuation，富国银行拥有其少量股权。她指出，一般来说，评估师对自己所辖市场是比较熟悉的，她还补充道，Rels Valuation的评估结果一般会比成交价低9%；相比之下，整个评估行业的评估结果平均则要比成交价低12%。
Yet problems seem to persist. Last summer Alexandra Penfold and her husband decided to refinance their New York City apartment. Though the home is a legal two-bedroom, the appraiser recorded it as a one-bedroom. Even though a similar two-bedroom in the building had just sold for $25,000 more than Ms. Penfold and her husband had paid for their apartment in 2008, the appraisal came back shockingly low — $110,000 less than their original purchase price.
然而问题看来依然存在。去年夏天，亚历山德拉•彭福尔德(Alexandra Penfold)和丈夫决定以他们在纽约市的公寓作抵押向银行贷款。虽然他们家是一套正规的两居室，但评估师却是将其作为一居室记录的。这栋楼里有一套户型相似的两居室刚刚出售，即便其价格比夫妻俩2008年买房时的花销高出了2.5万美元，但彭福尔德家房子的最终评估结果还是低得吓人，比他们最初的购买价还低11万美元之多。
Ms. Penfold notified the bank of the mistake and sent a copy of the offering plan to prove that her apartment had two legal bedrooms. The bank never responded, and she eventually refinanced with another lender.
彭福尔德提醒银行，他们肯定搞错了，并且送去一份资料，证明她的公寓有两个正规卧室。可那家银行始终没有回应。最终，她选择从另一家银行贷了款。
After researching Ms. Penfold’s refinance application, Amy Bonitatibus, a spokeswoman for the bank, JPMorgan Chase, said, “We fell short in serving this customer and are refunding her fees.”  
前面提到的那家银行，就是摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)。在研究过彭福尔德的抵押贷款申请后，摩根大通的发言人艾米•博尼塔蒂布斯(Amy Bonitatibus)说：“我们对这名顾客服务不周，将会返还她的费用。”
The best way to challenge an appraisal is to provide evidence as to why it is wrong, be the evidence an offering plan or relevant comps. But that can be an uphill battle. “You have a better chance of winning Powerball than getting a lender to abandon the first appraisal,” Mr. Miller said.
要想推翻一份评估结果，最好的办法就是提供证据证明，它为何是错的。作为证据的，可以是一份贷款申请计划书，或是拿出可作对比的comps。但这并非易事。正如米勒所言：“让银行放弃最初评估结果的几率，或许还没有你中威力球(Powerball)彩票的几率大。”