Federal authorities, under fire for treating Wall Street with kid gloves, have delivered a crippling blow to one of its most successful firms, SAC Capital Advisors, whose outsize trading profits have drawn government scrutiny for more than a decade.
一直因为处理华尔街问题过于谨慎小心而受人诟病的联邦当局，这次对其中最成功的机构之一SAC资本顾问公司(SAC Capital Advisors)挥出重拳。这家公司的交易盈利过于惊人，十多年来一直是政府的关注对象。
Calling SAC “a veritable magnet of market cheaters,” federal prosecutors announced criminal charges against the hedge fund on Thursday, a rare move against a large company that could threaten its survival. Authorities argued that the firm and its units permitted a “systematic” insider trading scheme to unfold from 1999 to 2010, activity that generated hundreds of millions of dollars in profit for the firm, owned by its founder, the billionaire stock picker Steven A. Cohen.
联邦检察官在周四公布了对这家对冲基金的刑事指控，并称SAC是“一个名符其实的市场欺诈者聚集地”，这是一个可能威胁到一家大公司生存的罕见举措。当局指出，从1999年到2010年，这家公司及其子公司一直在纵容一种“系统性的”内幕交易手法，为公司牟取了数以亿记的利润。公司所有人是其创始人、身家亿万的拣股者史蒂文·A·科恩(Steven A. Cohen)。
The indictment offers the most detailed account yet of SAC’s inner workings, citing e-mails indicating that Mr. Cohen and other top executives failed to prevent possible insider trading.
起诉书对SAC内部运作的描述是迄今为止最详尽的，其中援引的电子邮件表明科恩和其他高管没有去阻止潜在的内幕交易。
In one e-mail about the technology company Sun Microsystems, an SAC analyst informed Mr. Cohen that, “My edge is contacts at the company and their distribution channel.” In an instant message, an employee informed Mr. Cohen that he planned to bet against Nokia’s shares and then apologized for being “cryptic,” explaining that SAC’s compliance chief “was giving me Rules 101 yesterday — so I won’t be saying much.” (Mr. Cohen never responded to the message.) SAC, the indictment says, also recruited employees who possessed what the fund called “an edge,” including one trader who was fired from another hedge fund on suspicion of insider trading.
在一封事关科技公司太阳计算机系统(Sun Microsystems)的邮件中，一位SAC分析师告知科恩，“我的优势是在该公司和其分销渠道里的熟人。”在一条即时通讯信息中，一名雇员告知科恩，他打算做空诺基亚(Nokia)的股票，接着为他的“语焉不详”表示道歉，说SAC的合规主管“昨天给我上遵纪守法课来着——所以我不能说太多”。（科恩始终没有回这条信息。）起诉书称，SAC还招募了一些拥有公司所称的“优势”的雇员，其中有一名交易员之前在另一家对冲基金因为涉嫌内幕交易被解雇。
The United States attorney’s office in Manhattan and the F.B.I., which brought the charges, have spearheaded the largest and most prominent securities fraud cases in the nation’s history, including those against Ivan Boesky, Michael Milken and Raj Rajaratnam. Yet federal prosecutors on Thursday portrayed the “rampant insider trading” at SAC as having no equal, pointing to more than a decade of abuses that took place while managers turned a blind eye.
发起指控的曼哈顿联邦检察官办公室和联邦调查局(FBI)，在此前就牵头办理过美国历史上最大、最著名的几起证券诈骗案件，被告包括伊万·布斯基(Ivan Boesky)、迈克尔·米尔肯(Michael Milken)和拉吉·拉贾拉特南(Raj Rajaratnam)。然而联邦检察官在周四形容SAC的“猖狂内幕交易”是前所未见的，指出践踏法律的行为存在了十多年，但管理层视而不见。
The scheme at SAC, said Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, was “substantial, pervasive and on a scale without known precedent in the history of hedge funds.”
纽约南区联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)说到SAC的问题时表示，其“规模之巨、范围之广，在对冲基金历史上都是闻所未闻的。”
Mr. Cohen, 57, was not charged, but the 41-page indictment is a stinging attack on him nonetheless, declaring that he “fostered a culture that focused on not discussing inside information too openly, rather than not seeking or trading on such information in the first place.” Last week, the Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil action against Mr. Cohen, accusing him of failing to supervise his employees.
现年57岁的科恩没有受到指控，但这份41页长的起诉书还是代表着针对他的尖锐攻击，称他“培养了一种文化，专注于不过分公开地谈论内部信息，而不是去杜绝对这种信息的追求，或用这些信息进行交易。”上周，证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）对科恩发起了一项民事诉讼，指责他没有尽到管束下属的职责。
The criminal indictment lists eight former SAC employees who the government said engaged in misconduct while at the fund; six of them have already pleaded guilty to individual criminal charges, and are expected to testify in a trial against SAC.
刑事起诉书中列出了八名SAC前雇员，政府认为他们在受雇于SAC期间存在不法行为；其中六人已经对个人受到的刑事指控表示认罪，有望在庭审时成为控方证人。
In response to Thursday’s developments, a spokesman for the firm said, “SAC has never encouraged, promoted or tolerated insider trading.”
在对周四的指控进行回应时，SAC的一名发言人说：“SAC从未鼓励、助长或容忍过内幕交易。”
Despite the onslaught, SAC was open for business on Thursday with Mr. Cohen at the center of the firm’s cavernous trading floor in Stamford, Conn., sifting through information, buying and selling stocks.
尽管遭此重击，SAC周四仍然照常营业;在该公司位于康涅狄格州斯坦福德的交易大厅，科恩就在这个巨大空间的中心区域查看信息，买卖股票。
The government signaled that it could pursue hefty penalties, staking claim to “any and all assets” of SAC.
政府传达的信号显示，它可能对SAC施以重罚，查封该公司的“任何及所有资产”。
SAC managed about $15 billion at the beginning of the year, but the government’s investigation has buffeted the firm; investors have withdrawn about $5 billion in recent months.
今年年初时，SAC还管理着约150亿美元的资金，但政府调查给该公司造成了沉重打击：最近几个月内，投资者已经从该公司撤回了约50亿美元资金。
While prosecutors could theoretically pursue all of SAC’s money, they have no plans to do so, a person briefed on the matter said. Instead, they are likely to demand that SAC forfeit money that is traceable to any illicit trading, a sum that could reach a few billion dollars.
一位知情人士表示，虽然检察官理论上可以追索SAC的所有资金，但他们却并不打算这么做。他们很可能会要求SAC交出那些跟非法交易有关的资金，其总金额可能高达数十亿美元。
By filing the indictment under the theory of corporate criminal liability, the government is wielding a potent weapon. If prosecutors can show that SAC traders were acting “on behalf of and for the benefit of” SAC when breaking the law — and six such traders are likely to testify to that — then the theory allows the government to impute liability to the firm itself.
通过起诉SAC公司负有法人刑事责任，政府祭出了一个有力武器。如果检察官可以出示证据，显示SAC的交易员在触犯法律时，是“在代表SAC并为了SAC的利益而行事”——有六个这样的交易员有可能会为此作证——那么政府就可以把责任归咎到SAC公司身上。
To avoid charging corporations every time an employee commits a crime, the government often relies on so-called deferred prosecution agreements, which suspend an indictment so long as the company improves its behavior. Prosecutors seized on this approach after the Justice Department indicted Enron’s accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, in 2002, leading the firm to collapse and terminate 28,000 jobs. Deferred-prosecution agreements have drawn ire from critics of Wall Street who have complained that no Wall Street banks faced criminal charges after the financial crisis.
为了避免一有雇员犯罪公司就遭指控，政府往往会采用所谓的“延期起诉协议”：只要公司改善其行为，就暂停起诉。检察官曾在安然(Enron)事件发生之后，采用这一方法。2002年，美国司法部起诉安然公司的会计师事务所安达信(Arthur Andersen)，导致该公司倒台，令2.8万个工作岗位就此消失。延期起诉协议已经招来了一些华尔街批评者的怒火，他们抱怨说，金融危机发生之后，华尔街没有任何一家银行遭到了刑事指控。
But in the case of SAC, which has about 1,000 employees in five offices across the globe, the government rejected that more cautious measure, limiting the fund’s ability to defend itself.
但在SAC这个案子中，政府并没有采用更加谨慎的延期起诉协议，从而限制了该公司自我防卫的能力。SAC在全球各地开设了五个办事处，共有约1000名员工。
At the heart of the government’s case is an attack on SAC’s pursuit of an edge in stock trading. Though it has pushed into other investment strategies, at its core SAC has traditionally been an information-driven hedge fund, aggressively trading stocks around market-moving events like earnings releases and merger announcements.
政府案件的核心，是打击SAC采取不当方式，在股票交易中占取优势的做法。虽然SAC已经开始采用别的投资策略，但从核心来说，它历来都是一个信息驱动型的对冲基金公司，围绕着对股市产生重大影响的事件，比如财报发布和合并公告，以一种大胆进取的风格进行股票交易。
At the height of SAC’s powers in 2006 and 2007, Mr. Cohen is reported to have earned about $900 million each year, helping to give the firm a certain mystique. But it also generated whispers about whether the fund routinely crossed the line.
2006年和2007年，SAC处于鼎盛期时，据说科恩每年能赚到约9亿美元，这给该公司蒙上了某种神秘色彩，但是也导致一些人悄声议论：该基金是否常常逾矩而行。