News that the United States sent two B-52 bombers on a patrol through China’s newly declared air defense zone prompted widespread criticism Wednesday on Chinese websites, both of the United States for an action many Chinese commentators saw as provocative and of China for its lack of an immediate response.
美国派出两架B-52轰炸机在中国新划定的防空识别区巡逻的消息，周三在中国的网站上引起一片不满，既有指责美国行为的声音：很多中国评论员视之为挑战，也有指责中国没有马上作出反应的声音。
China said that it had monitored the flight and identified the U.S. aircraft, according to a statement posted on the website of China’s Ministry of National Defense shortly after noon Wednesday. “China has the ability to implement effective management and control of the airspace,” the statement added.
周三中午过后不久，中国国防部网站上发布一则声明说，中国对此次飞行做了全程监视、及时识别，判明了美方飞机类别。这则声明补充道，“中方有能力对相关空域实施有效管控。”
Even before the Chinese government offered an official reaction to the flight, which was a clear test of China’s stated intention to police the demarcated region in the East China Sea, Chinese blogs lit up with questions about American intentions and Chinese resolve.
美方的这次飞行是对中国表示要管控东海的这个划定区域的一次明显考验，在中国政府对此做出正式回应之前，中国的博客网站上已经充斥着有关美国意图和中国决心的问题。
“If the air defense zone is just a temporary, spoken thing, without means to handle other countries provocatively entering without permission, then we’d be better off not setting it up, because it’s completely unnecessary,” Liu Zhuming, a commentator based in the southwestern city of Chongqing, wrote on his Sina Weibo microblog.
中国东南部城市重庆市的一名评论员李著民在他的新浪微博上说，“如果防空识别区只是停留口头上的东西，对其他国家飞行器挑衅性的擅自进入毫无办法，那么还不如不设，因为完全不必要。”
The online reaction highlights a quandary for China in the continuing territorial dispute with Japan over islands claimed by both countries in the East China Sea. While steps that could strengthen China’s claim to the islands known as Diaoyu in China and the Senkaku in Japan are welcomed by much of the Chinese public, they also heighten expectations for government resolve.
网民的反应突显了中国在东海与日本就一些岛屿的归属问题持续的领土争端的困境。那些可能会加强中国对中方称之为钓鱼岛、日本称之为尖阁诸岛的岛屿主权的措施，虽然受到中国公众的普遍欢迎，但也提高了人们对政府决心的预期。
“If the Chinese military doesn’t do anything about aircraft that don’t obey the commands to identify themselves in the zone, it will face international ridicule,” wrote Ni Fangliu, a historian and investigative journalist with more than two million followers on his Tencent microblog account.
历史学家和调查性新闻记者倪方六在他有着200万关注者的腾讯微博上发帖称，“但如中国军方对不服从识别区指令的飞机不采取动作，将被国际嘲笑！”
China established the zone, which calls for aircraft to identify themselves or face possible interception by Chinese military forces, on Saturday, and in the following days some military analysts said they expected a robust enforcement. Meng Xiangqin, a professor at the Strategic Studies Institute of National Defense University in Beijing, said in an interview on state-run China Central Television that if a foreign aircraft entered China’s defensive zone, then antiaircraft missile forces should be in a state of high alert.
中国在上周六划定了这一区域，要求飞机经过时必须自报身份，否则可能会受到中国空军的拦截，在设立区域之后的几天里，一些军事分析家称，他们预计中方将会强力执行。北京国防大学战略研究所的教授孟祥青在接受中央电视台采访时表示，一旦外国的航空器进入我防空识别区，地面导弹部队要处在一种警戒状态。
PLA Daily, the official newspaper of China’s People’s Liberation Army, said in a commentary published before the B-52 flight that the zone required strong warning and defensive capabilities, otherwise its creation is just “armchair strategy.”
在美国B-52轰炸机的飞行之前，中国人民解放军报纸《解放军报》曾发表评论文章称，这种区域需要有强大的预警和反应能力，否则就是纸上谈兵。
“Now, we already have those capabilities, so setting up the air defense zone is only logical,” the paper said.
该报称，“现在，我们已经有了这样的能力，划设防空识别区顺理成章。”
The establishment of the zone, which overlaps in places with the defensive air perimeters established by Taiwan, South Korea and Japan, has prompted criticism from Washington and Tokyo that it escalates the continuing territorial dispute. China responded that such designations were normal and had been established by more than 20 nations, including the United States and Japan.
这个防空识别区的一些部分与台湾、韩国和日本设立的防空边界有重叠，该区域的设立已经遭到华盛顿和东京的反对，他们称这会让持续的领土争端问题升级。中国对此回应称，划定防空识别区是正常的，包括日本和美国在内的20多个国家都设立了防空识别区。