I just finished a five-month leave from this column, writing a book with my wife, Sheryl WuDunn, and what struck me while away from the daily fray is a paradox that doesn’t seem quite patriotic enough for July Fourth.
过去五个月我放了一个假，没写专栏，和妻子伍洁芳(Sheryl WuDunn)在合著一本书。在远离日常纷扰的这段日子，有一个悖论令我印象深刻，当然这个悖论对于独立日来说则显得缺乏爱国精神。
But I’ll share it anyway: On security issues, we Americans need a rebalancing. We appear willing to bear any burden, pay any price, to confound the kind of terrorists who shout “Allahu akbar” (“God is great”) and plant bombs, while unwilling to take the slightest step to curb a different kind of terrorism — mundane gun violence in classrooms, cinemas and inner cities that claims 1,200 times as many American lives.
但不管怎样，我会和大家分享这一悖论：在安全问题上，我们美国人需要重做调整。为了击退那些高喊“真主至大”并埋下炸弹的恐怖分子，我们好像愿意承担任何责任、付出任何代价，但在打击另一种形式的恐怖主义——常在教室、电影院和市中心发生的枪支暴力——方面，我们却不愿做出任何努力，虽然因后者失去性命的美国人人数是前者的1200倍。
When I began my book leave, it seemed likely that the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut would impel Congress to approve universal background checks for gun purchases. It looked as if we might follow Australia, which responded to a 1996 gun massacre by imposing restrictions that have resulted in not a single mass shooting there since.
当我因写书而开始休假时，发生在康涅狄格州桑迪·胡克小学(Sandy Hook Elementary School)的大规模枪击案看似有可能会迫使国会批准对枪支购买实行普遍的背景核查。看起来好像我们可能会效仿澳大利亚的做法。在1996年发生的一起大规模枪击案后，澳大利亚实施限制措施，其结果就是，自那以后，澳大利亚没再发生一起大规模枪击事件。
Alas, I was naïve. Despite 91 percent support from voters polled in late March and early April, Congress rejected background checks. Political momentum to reduce gun killings has now faded — until the next such slaughter.
哎，我太天真了。尽管在3月末、4月初的民调中，91%的选民表示支持背景核查，但国会最后还是否决了。如今，减少枪支杀戮的政治势头已经消失殆尽，除非再发生一次这样的屠杀事件。
Meanwhile, our national leaders have been in a tizzy over Edward Snowden and his leaks about National Security Agency surveillance of — of, well, just about everything. The public reaction has been a shrug: Most people don’t like surveillance, but they seem willing to accept it and much more as the price of suppressing terrorism.
同时，我们的国家领导人也因为爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)及其泄密行为而乱作一团。斯诺登泄露的是关于国家安全局(National Security Agency)的监控行为，其范围呢——无所不包。公众的反应一直都是不以为然：大部分人不喜欢监控，但他们好像愿意接受监控，特别是将这作为打击恐怖主义的代价，他们就更愿意了。
Our response to the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and international terrorism has been remarkable, including an intelligence apparatus in which some 1.4 million people (including, until recently, Snowden) hold “top secret” clearances.
我们对2001年9·11袭击和国际恐怖主义的应对一直是令人瞩目的，其中包括成立了一个情报机构，其中有大约140万名工作人员（就在前不久，斯诺登还是其中的一员）有资格接触“顶级机密”。
That’s more than twice the population of the District of Columbia. The Washington Post has reported that since 9/11, the United States has built new intelligence complexes equivalent in office space to 22 United States Capitol buildings.
这个人数是哥伦比亚特区人口的两倍多。《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)报道称，自9·11袭击以来，美国新建的情报机构办公空间相当于22栋国会大楼。
All told, since 9/11, the United States has spent $8 trillion on the military and homeland security, according to the National Priorities Project, a research group that works for budget transparency. That’s nearly $70,000 per American household.
据致力于预算透明的研究机构国家优先项目(National Priorities Project)的统计，自9.11袭击以来，美国已经在军队和国土安全方面总共投入了8万亿美元（约合49万亿元人民币）。这几乎相当于每个美国家庭7万美元。
Some of that money probably helped avert other terrorist attacks (although some of it spent in Iraq and Afghanistan may have increased risks). We need a robust military and intelligence network, for these threats are real. An Al Qaeda attack is an assault on the political system in a way that an ordinary murder is not. And overseas terrorists do aspire to commit mass murder again, perhaps with chemical, nuclear or biological weapons, and our government is right to work hard to prevent such a cataclysm.
其中的一些钱可能确实帮助避免了其他恐怖袭击（尽管花在伊拉克和阿富汗的一些钱可能还增加了这种风险）。我们需要一个强大的军队和情报网络，因为这些威胁是真实存在的。从某种方面来说，一场基地组织的袭击会对政治体制造成伤害，而普通谋杀则不会。而海外恐怖分子的确有志再次发动大规模袭击，他们或许会使用化学、核或是生物武器，而我们的政府努力避免这种灾难的发生是没错的。
But there are trade-offs, including other ways to protect the public, and our entire focus seems to be on national security rather than on more practical ways of assuring our safety.
然而还是要权衡各种因素，比如其他保护公众的方法，而我们所有的注意力似乎都放在国家安全上，而不是其他更实际的方法来确保我们的安全。
The imbalance in our priorities is particularly striking because since 2005, terrorism has taken an average of 23 American lives annually, mostly overseas — and the number has been falling.
我们的优先级排序失衡十分惊人，这么说是因为从2005年开始，每年因恐怖主义死亡的美国人平均为23人，大部分人是在海外遇害，而且这个数字还在一直下降。
More Americans die of falling televisions and other appliances than from terrorism. Twice as many Americans die of bee or wasp stings annually. And 15 times as many die by falling off ladders.
而每年被掉下的电视和其他设备砸死的美国人比恐怖主义杀死的人要多。每年被蜜蜂或者大黄蜂蜇死的美国人是这个数字的两倍。从梯子上摔死的人则是这一数字的15倍。
Most striking, more than 30,000 people die annually from firearms injuries, including suicides, murders and accidents, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. American children are 13 times as likely to be killed by guns as in other industrialized countries.
根据疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的报告，最显著的情况是，每年有3万多人是因枪械伤害致死，其中包括自杀、他杀和事故。和其他发达国家相比，美国儿童因枪致死的可能性要高出13倍。
Doesn’t it seem odd that we’re willing to spend trillions of dollars, and intercept metadata from just about every phone call in the country, to deal with a threat that, for now, kills but a few Americans annually — while we’re too paralyzed to introduce a rudimentary step like universal background checks to reduce gun violence that kills tens of thousands?
这听上去难道不让人吃惊吗？一方面我们太无能，无法引入一个像普遍背景核查这样的基本措施，来减少杀死数万人的枪支暴力，而另一方面我们却愿意投入几万亿美元，截取发生在这个国家的几乎每一次通话的元数据，而应对的威胁在目前来说每年致死的美国人不过几个。
Wasn’t what happened at Sandy Hook a variant of terrorism? And isn’t what happens in troubled gang-plagued neighborhoods of Chicago just as traumatic for schoolchildren, leaving them suffering a kind of post-traumatic stress disorder?
难道在桑迪·胡克小学发生的惨案不是另一种形式的恐怖主义吗？在黑帮横行、问题丛生的芝加哥社区里发生的事让学生们患上创伤后心理压力紧张综合症，这对他们来说不也是同样痛苦吗？
I don’t see any glib solutions here, just a need for a careful balancing of risks and benefits. I’d say that in auto safety, we get it about right. We give most adults access to cars, but we regulate them with licenses, insurance requirements and mandatory seat belts. In the case of national security and terrorism, I wonder if we haven’t overdeployed resources.
我在这个问题上看不到任何简单的解决方案，我们就是需要仔细权衡各种风险和好处。可以说，在行车安全方面，我们做的还不错。我们让几乎所有成年人都可以开车，但我们也通过驾照、保险要求和强制性的安全带来对他们进行管理。但是在国家安全和恐怖主义方面，我怀疑，我们是不是动用了太多的资源。
In the case of guns, we don’t do enough. Baby steps, consistent with the Second Amendment, would include requiring universal background checks, boosting research to understand gun violence and investing in smarter guns. A debit card requires a code to work, a car requires a key — and a gun, nothing at all.
在枪支管理方面，我们做的不够。在符合宪法第二修正案(Second Amendment)原则的基础上，我们可以开始逐步地推进普遍背景核查，增加对枪支暴力行为的研究，并投资生产更智能的枪支。使用借记卡需要密码，启动汽车需要钥匙，而使用一把枪，却什么都不需要。