NAIROBI, Kenya — Viewing the deadly siege at a shopping mall in Kenya as a direct threat to its security, the United States is deploying dozens of F.B.I. agents to investigate the wreckage, hoping to glean every piece of information possible to help prevent such a devastating attack from happening again, possibly even on American soil.
肯尼亚内罗毕——美国认为肯尼亚一家商场发生的血腥屠杀事件直接威胁到了自己的安全，正派遣数十名美国联邦调查局（Federal Bureau of Investigation，简称FBI）特工对现场的残骸碎片进行调查，希望尽可能收集到所有信息，以帮助防止类似的毁灭性袭击再次发生，因为这种袭击甚至可能会发生在美国的领土上。
For years, the Federal Bureau of Investigation has been closely watching the Shabab, the Somali Islamist group that has claimed responsibility for the Nairobi massacre and recruited numerous Americans to fight and die — sometimes as suicide bombers — for its cause.
多年来，FBI一直密切关注索马里的伊斯兰派组织青年党(Shabab)。该组织已声称对内罗毕发生的这场屠杀事件负责。青年党招募了许多美国人，让他们为了这个组织的目标而战斗、献身，有时这些美国人会充当自杀式炸弹袭击者。
The Shabab has already attacked most of the major actors trying to end the chaos in Somalia — the United Nations, Uganda, aid groups, the Somali government and now Kenya. The United States has spent hundreds of millions of dollars bankrolling anti-Shabab operations for years, and there is growing fear that the group could turn its sights on American interests more directly, one of the reasons the Obama administration is committing so many resources to the investigation in Kenya.
试图结束索马里混乱局势的主要势力中，大部分都遭受过青年党的袭击，从联合国、乌干达，到援助组织、索马里政府，再到现在的肯尼亚。多年来，美国为反青年党行动提供了数亿美元的资金支持。现在，人们越来越担心，该组织可能会更直接地将目光转向美国的利益。这正是奥巴马政府把如此多资源投入到肯尼亚的调查中的原因之一。
“We are in this fight together,” said Robert F. Godec, the American ambassador to Kenya. “The more we know about the planning that went into this, the way it was conducted, what was used, the people involved, the better we can protect America too.”
“我们在并肩作战，”美国驻肯尼亚大使罗伯特·F·戈代克(Robert F. Godec)说，“我们对这起事件的策划、实施方式、所用装备、参与人员知道的越多，就越能更好地保护美国。”
Less than a day after the bloody standoff ended, more than 20 F.B.I. agents wearing flak jackets and helmets were combing through the wreckage strewn across the steps of the mall. Dozens more agents may be on the way, American officials say, some of them members of the New York Joint Terrorism Task Force squad that investigates extremist groups operating in the Horn of Africa, a law enforcement official said.
血腥对峙结束后不到一天，20多名身穿防弹衣、头戴钢盔的FBI特工就在仔细清理散落在商场台阶四周的残骸与碎片。美国官员称，另外几十名特工可能正在路上。一名执法官员称，那几十名特工中，有一部分是纽约联合反恐特别小组(Joint Terrorism Task Force)的成员。这个小组的调查对象是在非洲之角活动的极端组织。
Over the next few days, agents, including a full Evidence Response Team, will be collecting D.N.A., fingerprints and other biometric information, poring through surveillance footage and examining guns, laptops, cameras and computers — anything to gain insights into how the attack was carried out and the hierarchy, planning and structures behind the group, especially if they have any ties back to the United States.
未来几天，FBI特工，包括一个证据调查小组(Evidence Response Team)的全体成员，将会搜集DNA、指纹和其他生物特征识别信息，研究监控视频，检查枪支、笔记本电脑、相机和计算机。总之，他们会采取一切措施，旨在洞察这场袭击是如何实施的，以及该组织背后的等级体系、策划过程和组织结构，尤其是查明他们是否与美国保持着联系。
American officials are mindful that Kenya, one of its closest allies in Africa, has become a precarious buffer zone between the United States and Islamist militants who have declared foreigners legitimate targets in their war.
美国官员知道，作为其在非洲最亲密的盟友之一，肯尼亚已经成了美国和伊斯兰派武装分子之间一个不稳定的缓冲地带。伊斯兰派武装分子已经在战斗中宣称外国人是合法目标。
The American government has learned the hard way what happens if it does not contain groups responsible for faraway attacks. In 1998, the then-relatively unknown group called Al Qaeda simultaneously attacked the United States embassies here and in Tanzania, killing hundreds and following up a few years later with the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
美国政府已从惨痛的教训中明白，如果不遏制那些应对遥远异国发生的袭击事件负责的组织，将会发生什么。1998年，当时相对尚不为人知的基地组织(Al Qaeda)同时袭击了美国驻肯尼亚和坦桑尼亚大使馆，导致数百人身亡。几年后，这个组织制造了“9·11”恐怖袭击事件。
The Shabab militant group, which has pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda and taken responsibility for killing more than 60 civilians at the mall, is considered an especially dangerous threat because more than two dozen young American men are already learning terrorist tactics in Somalia. So far, this has been a one-way pipeline, but the fear is that some battle-hardened militants could come home with their American passports to strike on American soil.
青年党武装组织已发誓效忠基地组织，并宣称该组织对杀害购物中心内的60多名平民一事负责，鉴于已有20多名美国青年在索马里学习恐怖袭击战术，青年党被认为是一个很大的威胁。迄今为止，这种人员流动依然是单向运作的，然而，让人担忧的是，某些久经沙场的武装分子可能会利用他们的美国护照返回家乡，攻击美国本土。
“You never know when a terrorist attack in a faraway place could be a harbinger of something that could strike at the United States,” said Daniel Benjamin, a former Obama administration counterterrorism official. On Kenya, he said, “It’s a country that has a long history of being attacked by terrorists that are of real concern to the United States.”
奥巴马政府的一名前反恐官员丹尼尔·本杰明(Daniel Benjamin)说，“你永远不知道，哪一次发生在某个遥远地区的恐怖攻击，会成为一个预兆，指向可能伤害到美国本土的袭击行动。”提到肯尼亚时他说，“这是一个长久以来一直受到恐怖分子袭击的国家，这些恐怖分子是美国真正担忧的对象。”
Compounding matters, relations between the United States and Kenya had grown frosty before the attack because Kenya’s president has been indicted on charges of crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court. American officials here were trying to keep their distance from him, but now the two sides must work closely together.
雪上加霜的是，袭击发生之前，美国和肯尼亚之间的关系变得冷淡了，原因是国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)指控肯尼亚总统犯有反人类罪。因此，驻肯尼亚的美国官员一度试图和总统保持距离，可是现在，双方必须携起手来紧密合作。
As the mall attack showed, militants would not need to reach the United States to strike hard at American interests. Several Americans were injured in the four-day siege, though none were killed. French, British, Canadians, Chinese, Indians and many others died, most of them Kenyan.
正如购物中心袭击案显示的，武装分子不需要把手伸到美国本土来重创美国的利益。在时长四日的围困中，虽然没有美国人被杀，但依然有四名美国人受伤。遇害者中有法国人、英国人、加拿大人、中国人、印度人和许多来自其他国家的民众，而大部分遇害者是肯尼亚人。
American officials say that several of the attackers may have escaped, posing as civilians and fleeing in the mayhem. The worry is that they may be planning future attacks here in Nairobi.
美国官员说，有几名袭击者装扮成平民在混乱中逃离，他们可能已经成功逃脱。让人担忧的是，他们可能计划着在内罗毕再次发动袭击。
Wednesday was Day 1 of an investigation that may take weeks, even months, with the first priority establishing the identities of the 10 to 15 attackers who burst into the mall on Saturday with automatic weapons, shooting some people at random, questioning others about their religion and ruthlessly sorting individuals for execution.
周三是一项可能持续数周，甚至数月的调查行动的第一日，该调查的首要目标是确定10到15名袭击者的身份，这些人于上周六闯入了购物中心，用自动武器随意扫射人群，他们还盘问一些平民的宗教信仰，无情地挑出一些人当场处死。
Kenyan officials have said that some of the attackers may have been Somali-Americans, but Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said on Wednesday that there had been no confirmation of that. Another question is whether a British woman, Samantha Lewthwaite, known as the White Widow, was among the assailants.
肯尼亚官员指出，其中的一些袭击者可能是索马里裔美国人，不过，美国司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)于周三表示，此事还未得到确认。另一个问题是，袭击者中是否有一名被称为白寡妇(White Widow)的英国女性，她的名字是萨曼莎·卢思韦特(Samantha Lewthwaite)。
The United States urgently wants to decode the tactics of the assault. There is growing concern about the ease with which a few determined militants armed with automatic weapons could storm into a crowded area, kill many people very quickly and hold off government forces for so long. After the Mumbai killings in 2008, the F.B.I. sponsored training sessions for the hotel industry and other groups that could be soft targets for such attacks.
美国迫切地想要解密袭击战术。人们越来越担忧的是，几名拥有自动武器的顽固武装分子，竟能如此轻易地闯入拥挤场合，极其迅速地杀死这么多民众，还抵挡了政府部队这么长的时间。在2008年孟买发生屠杀案之后，FBI赞助了一些培训课程，培训对象包括酒店业从业者和其他可能成为此类袭击软目标的团体的成员。
“One of the misconceptions is that we can let Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups stay abroad and not fight them there, and that we would be safe at home,” said Katherine Zimmerman, senior analyst at the Critical Threats Project of the American Enterprise Institute. “That’s really proven not to be the case.”
美国企业研究所(American Enterprise Institute)关键威胁项目(Critical Threats Project)高级分析员凯瑟琳·齐默尔曼(Katherine Zimmerman)说，“一个错误的观念是，我们可以不去理睬国外的基地组织或其他恐怖组织，即便不在国外和他们作战，我们在国内还是安全的。事实真的证明，情况并非如此。”