WASHINGTON — The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday that it was beginning to phase out the use of some critical antibiotics in animals raised for meat, a major policy shift that could have far-reaching implications for industrial farming and human health.
华盛顿——周三，美国食品药品监督管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）表示，它正开始逐步禁止在食用动物的养殖过程中使用一些关键的抗生素，这项重大的政策转变可能会为工业化养殖和人体健康带来深远影响。
The change, which will take effect over the next three years, is the first serious attempt by the federal government to curb the broad use of antibiotics in farm animals in decades. Pressure for action has mounted as the effectiveness of drugs important for human health has declined, and deaths from bugs resistant to antibiotics have soared. Food producers said they will abide by the new rules, but some public health advocates voiced concerns that loopholes could render the new policy toothless.
这项改革会在今后三年内生效，是数十年来联邦政府首次认真着手限制抗生素在农畜饲养中的广泛使用。随着对人体健康非常重要的一些药物的有效性减弱，以及对抗生素产生耐药性的一些细菌导致的死亡病例数飞涨，要求采取行动的呼声日渐加强。食品生产商说他们会遵守新规，但一些公共健康倡导人士却担心，漏洞可能会让新政策形同虚设。
“This is the first significant step in dealing with this important public health concern in twenty years,” said David Kessler, a former F.D.A. commissioner who has been critical of the agency’s track record on antibiotics. “No one should underestimate how big a lift this has been in changing widespread and long entrenched industry practices.”
“这是20年来应对这个重要公共健康问题的第一步重大举措，”FDA前局长戴维·凯斯勒(David Kessler)说，他一直对FDA在抗生素方面的作为持批评态度。“每一个人都应该充分认识到，这会给广泛而长期存在的产业惯例带来重大改进。”
Antibiotics, one of the wonder drugs of the 20th century, were initially used indiscriminately in people and animals, experts say. By the 1970s, public health officials had become worried that overuse was leading to the development of infections resistant to treatment in humans. But for years, modest efforts by federal officials were thwarted by the powerful food industry and its lobbying power in Congress. The issue of antibiotic overuse in animals and drug resistance has since become one of the leading public health concerns worldwide with at least 2 million Americans falling sick every year and about 23,000 dying from antibiotic-resistant infections.
抗生素是20世纪的特效药之一，专家们说，起初抗生素在人畜的应用上不加任何区分。到20世纪70年代，公共卫生官员们已经开始担心，抗生素的滥用正导致人体中出现一些对治疗产生耐药性的传染病。但是多年以来，即使是联邦官员们最微不足道的举措，也受到了势力强大的食品业及其在国会中的游说力量的阻挠。自那以后，抗生素在动物中的滥用和抗药性已经成了世界范围内公共卫生领域的重大问题之一，每年至少有200万美国人患病，其中约2.3万人死于耐抗生素感染。
The agency has changed the rules so that food animal producers would no longer be able to use antibiotics to make animals grow faster. It will accomplish that by asking manufacturers of the drugs to change the labels in a way that would make it illegal for farmers to use the medicines for growth promotion.
FDA已经对这些规则做出改变，这样一来，食用动物生产商就不能再使用抗生素来加快动物的生长。为了达到这一目的，FDA会要求抗生素的生产厂家在标签上做出改变，如此一来，农场主们再使用这种药物来刺激动物的生长就是违法的了。
The changes, which were originally proposed in 2012, are voluntary for drug companies. But F.D.A. officials said they believed the companies would comply, based on discussions during the public comment period. The two drug makers that represent a majority of such drug products have already stated their intent to participate, F.D.A. officials said on a call for reporters on Wednesday. Companies will have three months to tell the agency whether they will change the labels, and three years to carry out the new rules.
在医药公司方面，这些2012年提出的改革举措并没有做出强制性约束。但是FDA官员表示，基于公共评论期间的一些讨论，他们相信医药公司会遵守新规。周三，FDA官员在与记者的一次通话中表示，生产了市场上多数抗生素药物的两家医药公司已经表明了他们的参与意向。医药公司会有三个月的时间来告知FDA他们是否会改变标签，并用三年的时间来实施新规。
Additionally, the agency is requiring that licensed veterinarians supervise the use of antibiotics, effectively requiring farmers and ranchers to obtain prescriptions in order to be able to use the drugs for their animals. Michael Taylor, the F.D.A.'s deputy commissioner for foods and veterinary medicine said this was a substantial change from the way the industry has operated in the past.
除此以外，FDA还要求有执照的兽医监督抗生素的使用，这其实就是要求，农场主和牧场主想要为他们的动物使用抗生素，就要先取得处方。FDA主管食品和兽药的副局长迈克尔·泰勒(Michael Taylor)说，比较这个行业以往的做法，这是一个极其重大的改变。
“It’s a big shift from the current situation, in which animal producers can go to local feed store and buy these medicines over the counter and there is no oversight at all,” Mr.Taylor said.
“如今的畜禽生产商可以去当地的饲料商店购买抗生素，无需处方，完全没有任何监管，而实施了新规则会有很大的不同，”泰勒说道。
Consumer health advocates say it is an open question whether the new rules will change how much antibiotics are consumed by animals. They say that a loophole will allow animal producers to keep using the same low doses of antibiotics, by arguing that they were needed to keep animals from getting sick, and thereby avoiding the new ban on use for growth promotion.
倡导消费者健康的人士说，新规是否能改变动物的抗生素用量还很难说。他们说，有一个漏洞会允许畜禽生产商继续使用同样低剂量的抗生素，他们可以说这些抗生素的使用是为了预防动物生病，是必要的，因此就可以绕过禁止将抗生素用作生长刺激剂的新规。
“Even if all growth promotion approvals were withdrawn voluntarily, many antibiotics could still be used in similar ways,” said Keeve Nachman, a scientist at the Johns Hopkins Center for a Livable Future.
“即使所有允许生长刺激的许可被主动收回，许多抗生素依然能够以类似的方式使用下去，”约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins)宜居未来研究中心(Center for a Livable Future)的科学家基夫·纳赫曼(Keeve Nachman)说道。
A more meaningful move, Dr. Nachman said, would be to ban the use of antibiotics for the prevention of disease, a step the F.D.A. so far has not taken. That would limit antibiotic uses to treatment of sickness that was diagnosed by a veterinarian, a much narrower category, he said.
纳赫曼说，一个更有意义的举措会是禁止将抗生素用作疾病的预防，迄今为止，FDA还没有采取这一步。这样做会把抗生素的使用仅仅限于针对兽医所诊断疾病的治疗，这个范围就要小得多，他说。
One drug producer, Zoetis, said it approved of the changes. “We believe that veterinarians should be involved in decisions regarding antibiotic use in food animals for the health of the animal and for the safety of the food supply,” the company said in a statement.
药商硕腾(Zoetis)表达了对这些新举措的认可。“我们认为，决定对食用动物使用抗生素的过程应该有兽医的参与，这是为了动物的健康，也是为了食品供应的安全，”公司在一份声明中说道。
Just how broadly farmers use antibiotics simply to promote animal growth is unknown. About 80 percent of antibiotics used on farms are given through feed, and an additional 17 percent are given in water. Just 3 percent are given by injection.
但是农场主单纯为了刺激生长而使用抗生素的范围有多广，还不得而知。农场中约80%的抗生素会混入饲料中，还有17%放入水中。仅有3%是通过注射使用。
Public health advocates applauded the move.
倡导公共健康的人士对这一举措给予了肯定。
“Restricting the use of antibiotics for growth promotion and increasing veterinary oversight is a promising start,” said Laura Rogers, director of the Pew Charitable Trusts’ human health and industrial farming campaign. “We’re particularly encouraged that major drug makers are indicating they will comply and that the F.D.A. acknowledges there is still more work to do.”
“限制将抗生素用来刺激生长，增加兽医对使用的监管，这是一个充满希望的开端，”皮尤慈善信托基金会(Pew Charitable Trusts)负责人体健康和工业化养殖行动的主任劳拉·罗杰斯(Laura Rogers)说道。“大型制药公司表示它们会遵守，FDA承认还有更多的工作要做，这让我们感到尤为鼓舞。”
A spokeswoman for Zoetis, a major producer, said the change was not expected to have a big effect on the revenues of the company because many of its drug products were also approved for therapeutic uses. Dr. Nachman said that was an indication that overall use might not decline under the new rules.
抗生素的主要生产商硕腾的女发言人表示，他们不认为这项改革会对公司的收入带来很大影响，因为它的许多产品同时也获得了医疗用途的许可。纳赫曼博士说，从这点上也可以看出，新规可能并不会让抗生素的总体使用有所减少。