In recent years, Bill Nye, best known as “The Science Guy,” has become a must-book figure when a talk show, or President Obama for that matter, is looking for someone to challenge climate change denial.
比尔·奈(Bill Nye)最广为人知的身份是“科学哥”(The Science Guy)。近年来，如果有哪个脱口秀，或者奥巴马总统想要找人，对否认气候变化的言论发起挑战，即一定要邀请比尔。
But however well intended, such efforts often seem to empower defenders of fossil fuels as much as those seeking a low-emissions energy future, given how name calling syncs with the nation’s broader, edge-driven political polarization.
然而，考虑到这个国家的政治立场愈发极端，两极分化加剧，对骂与政治讨论也日益同步，不管多么用心良苦，化石燃料的捍卫者和寻求未来推行低排放能源的人士，往往都能从这种做法中找到论据。
That’s why “Explorer: Bill Nye’s Global Meltdown,” premiering Sunday night* on National Geographic Channel, is so refreshing. In the program, written and directed by Chris Cassel, Nye reluctantly resolves to confront the five stages of “climate change grief” after he is diagnosed with that malady by his cigar-chomping therapist, Arnold Schwarzenegger.
正因为如此，周日晚上在国家地理频道(National Geographic Channel)首映的《气候变迁的悲伤故事》(Explorer: Bill Nye’s Global Meltdown)令人耳目一新。在由克里斯·卡塞尔(Chris Cassel)编剧和执导的该片中，比尔在被抽着雪茄的治疗师阿诺·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)诊断为患有“气候变化感伤”后，不情不愿地直面这种疾病的五个阶段。
The program is built around the environmental equivalent of Elisabeth Kübler-Ross’s five mental stages of dealing with death — denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. The conceit makes a nice structure for what is a mix of road movie and science explainer.
伊丽莎白·库伯勒·罗斯(Elisabeth Kübler-Ross)提出了人在面对死亡时经历的五个心理阶段：否认、愤怒、讨价还价、绝望、接受。在本片中，故事脉络相当于人在面对环境变化时，经历了同样的五个阶段。拍摄者用出色的表现手法，让这部公路片兼科普片，显得结构巧妙。
Spurred by his diagnosis, Nye goes on the road, exploring denial in surreal conversations with a Florida state legislator who flatly rejects any human contribution to global warming or coastal risks, and a street sampling of tuned-out citizenry, even in flood-prone Miami. A helicopter tour shows the entire city is evidently in denial given the blistering pace of construction in the face of inevitable and sustained sea level rise. In the context of warming and sea levels, Nye can’t resist pulling out a flask to show how heated water expands.Nye hits his nadir in a desert meeting with an apocalyptic ecologist, Guy McPherson, who has built something of an “End of Days” following through his prediction that the human race will be gone by 2030.
受到诊断结果的刺激，比尔上路了。他与各色人等进行了几次超现实的对话，藉此探索了人们对气候变化的否认。其中一次交谈对象是佛罗里达州的一名州议员，对方断然否认人类活动与全球变暖或沿海地区的气象风险有任何关联。另外一些对话则展示了一些街头民众对气候问题充耳不闻的例子，哪怕这是在易发生洪涝灾害的迈阿密。在直升机上俯瞰城市时，他发现整座城市都明显不承认气候变化，因为尽管面临难以避免的海平面持续上升，但建设速度却依然很快。在全球变暖和海平面上升的背景下，比尔忍不住打了一瓶水，来展示热水会怎样膨胀。在一片沙漠里，比尔见到了认定末世即将来临的生态学家盖伊·麦克弗森(Guy McPherson)。此时，比尔的情绪跌到了最低点。麦克弗森预测，到2030年时人类将消失。他坚持自己的预测，提出了一套类似于《末日浩劫》(End of Days)的言论。
McPherson’s deadpan pronouncements send Nye into a nihilistic tailspin, including a rare unraveling of his bow tie and a cigarette-puffing walk down the middle of a highway (Cassel said that scene was Nye’s idea), followed by a hilarious cigar-smoking session back in his therapist’s office.
麦克弗森面无表情地宣布了自己的结论，这让比尔陷入了空虚和迷乱。他罕见地解开了领结，嘴里叼着烟走在公路中间（卡塞尔说这个情节是比尔的主意）。接下来的一幕有些搞笑，比尔回到治疗师的办公室，一边吸烟一边接受治疗。
It’s nice to see Nye explore various facets of denial in a way that, while including some deserved digs at Florida Republicans, is more informative than divisive.
看到比尔从各个方面探讨人们对全球变暖的否认，这令人感到高兴。他采取的方式更多的是提供有用信息，而非制造分歧，同时还让佛罗里达州的共和党人受到了应得的挖苦。
Indeed, in a phone interview Friday, Nye said he sees a rising prospect of a Republican presidential candidate turning the corner on climate: 
实际上，比尔·奈在周五接受电话采访时表示，他认为共和党总统候选人正视气候问题的可能性越来越大：
I can imagine, with the right advisers influencing the right candidate, that in order to win the votes of millennials, people coming of age right now, you would have to change your stance on climate change. I could easily imagine a thoughtful Republican, along about February or March next year, saying, ‘I’ve been thinking about this issue and I’ve changed my mind. We need to get to work on this right away.’
“我能想象，会有合适的顾问影响到合适的候选人，告诉他们要想赢得现在即将成年的‘千禧一代’的选票，候选人必须改变在气候变化问题上的立场。很容易想到，某个考虑周到的共和党人会在明年2月或3月说，‘我一直在思索这个问题，现在改变主意了。我们需要立即应对这个问题。’
That would be a phenomenally great thing. I hope the person doesn’t backfire where the person wins the election and then abandons the necessary policies. But I feel we’re so close to a tipping point on this issue where it will no longer possible for a presidential candidate to ignore the reality of climate change.The film may also offer some comfort to many environmental commentators who were horrified when 21st Century Fox and the National Geographic Society created a joint commercial enterprise. National Geographic Channel has long been a part of Fox and, along with this show, is producing the next season of the climate documentary series “Years of Living Dangerously” and produced “Cosmos.” Amusingly, a montage of Nye’s sparring matches with conservative media in the new film includes a snippet of Fox News in finest form.
“那将是一件大事。我希望那个人不要在赢得选举后出尔反尔，放弃必要的政策。但我感觉在这个问题上，转折点很快就到了，总统候选人无法再忽视气候变化的现实情况了。”影片可能还会让很多环境评论人士心生安慰。当21世纪福克斯公司(21st Century Fox)和国家地理学会(National Geographic Society)联手成立商业企业时，他们颇为震惊。长期以来，国家地理频道一直是福克斯的一部分。除本片外，该频道还制作了《宇宙时空之旅》(Cosmos)，目前正在制作气候纪录片系列《多灾凶年》(Years of Living Dangerously)。有意思的是，新片中用蒙太奇手法表现的比尔与保守媒体的争论，还用极其精细的方式放进了一段福克斯新闻(Fox News)。
One disappointment for me was the lack of any mention — particularly from a science guy — of the decades of bipartisan disinvestment in basic research and development in energy sciences in the United States and other industrialized countries — a gap that many studies have found would need to be filled to have any chance of achieving steep drops in greenhouse-gas emissions.
令我失望的一点是，片中根本没有提及——特别是从“科学哥”的角度来说——几十年来，美国对能源科学领域基础研发的资金支持日益减少，两党意见都是如此。其他工业国也是这种情况。很多研究认为，要想有机会实现温室气体排放大幅降低，就需要填补这个缺口。
There’s no mention of nuclear power and a pretty simplified summary of how to end fossil fuel use with today’s renewable-energy technologies. (That’s the difference between a thought experiment and a road map.) But this would realistically require far more than an hour.
片中没有提及核能，关于如何用当下的可再生能源技术，来终结化石燃料的使用，介绍得也过于简略。（这正是思维实验与实际路线图之间的差别。）不过老实讲，真要讲明白的话，需要的时间远不止一个小时。
Over all, “Bill Nye’s Global Meltdown” is a welcome and entertaining departure from the longstanding stream of woe and shame dominating environmental filmmaking in recent years.
总的说来，《气候变迁的悲伤故事》告别了近年来主导环保影片制作的悲哀和羞愧，给观众带来了欢乐，颇受欢迎。
If you want to multitask while watching, you can leaf or click through the November issue of National Geographic Magazine, headlined “Cool It.” The entire issue is devoted to the topic of climate change science and policy options.
如果想在观看该片时一心多用，可以翻一翻11月的《国家地理杂志》(National Geographic Magazine)，大标题是“给地球降温”(Cool It)。整期杂志讨论的都是气候变化的科学和可选的政策。
And of course, don’t forget to check out Nye’s forthcoming climate book, “Unstoppable: Harnessing Science to Change the World.” I’ll be reading it shortly.
当然，别忘了关注比尔·奈即将面世的有关气候的著作《势不可挡：用科学改变世界》(Unstoppable: Harnessing Science to Change the World)。我很快就会开始读它了。