WASHINGTON — A bipartisan bill to encourage energy efficiency in buildings died in the Senate on Monday, derailed by the contentious debate over the Keystone XL pipeline and President Obama’s plans to issue new climate change regulations.
华盛顿——周一，受Keystone XL管道引发的激烈讨论，以及奥巴马颁布气候变化新规的影响，一项鼓励建筑节能的两党法案在参议院遭到否决。
The bill’s end came as the Senate voted 55 to 36 on a procedural motion, falling five votes short of the 60 required to bring the bill to a final vote.
在参议院的一项程序动议上，55票支持、36票反对的投票结果决定了该法案的命运。该法案需在程序动议上获得60票赞成票才能接受最终投票，实际结果只差5票。
The measure, sponsored by Senators Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, and Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, was a rarity in today’s political environment: Until last week, it had widespread support from members of both parties in both chambers of Congress. A companion bill in the House, sponsored by Representatives David B. McKinley, Republican of West Virginia, and Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, has also drawn strong bipartisan backing.
该法案由俄亥俄州共和党参议员罗布·波特曼(Rob Portman)和新罕布什尔州民主党参议员珍妮·沙欣(Jeanne Shaheen)发起。在现如今的政治环境下，这是个稀罕事：直到上周，该法案还获得了参众两院两党议员的广泛支持。西弗吉尼亚州共和党众议员戴维·B·麦金利(David B. McKinley)和佛蒙特州民主党众议员彼得·韦尔奇(Peter Welch)同期发起的另一项法案也得到了两党的大力支持。
Congressional staff members have been working behind the scenes for nearly a year to draft a consensus version of the bill that party leaders in both chambers could endorse. Just a few weeks ago, leaders of both parties were optimistic that the Senate bill would show that bipartisan agreement is still possible in a gridlocked Capitol and pave the way for a broader energy bill.
为了起草一份让参众两院两党领袖都能赞成的法案，国会工作人员已经在幕后工作了近一年。就在几周前，两党领袖还乐观地认为，提交给参议院的该法案将表明，在陷入僵局的国会，两党达成一致依然是有可能的，而且法案将为一项更广泛的能源法案扫清障碍。
Mr. Welch, in talking about the unusual agreement on the bill, said, “It was like a snowstorm in July in Vermont.” And it was an issue that had united Mr. Welch, a New England liberal, and Representative Eric Cantor, the conservative House majority leader from Virginia.
韦尔奇在谈及就该法案达成的不同寻常的一致时说，“就像佛蒙特州7月下起了暴风雪一样。”这个问题将来自新英格兰地区的自由派韦尔奇和来自弗吉尼亚州的众议院多数党领袖、保守派众议员埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)团结在了一起。
But partisan differences emerged last week as the bill came to the Senate floor for debate and Republicans pushed for amendments, including one that would approve the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada to the Gulf Coast and another to block Mr. Obama’s efforts to issue climate change rules without congressional action.
但上周，当法案被提交给参议院供讨论，而共和党提出修订意见时，党派分歧浮现了出来，修改条款包括批准从加拿大到墨西哥湾沿岸的Keystone XL管道，还有一条是要阻止奥巴马企图不经国会颁布气候变化新规的企图。
The majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, refused to let the amendments come up for a vote, leading to a standoff from which neither side backed down.
来自内华达州的的多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)拒绝让相关修正案接受投票，导致双方陷入僵持，均不愿让步。
“Today’s failure to move forward on a bipartisan energy-efficiency bill is yet another disappointing example of Washington’s dysfunction,” Mr. Portman said in a statement.
“今天未能推进一项两党节能法案，再次令人失望地表明了华盛顿的失调，”波特曼在一份声明中说。
It has been seven years since Congress has passed a major energy bill, and a variety of energy issues have become top concerns since then. There is the push to combat global warming, which scientists say is made worse by the burning of coal, oil and gas, and the debate over hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, which environmentalists fear will contaminate water supplies but which also has led to a boom in oil and gas. The crisis in Ukraine, which depends on Russia for its energy supplies, has also raised questions about whether the United States should export its gas and crude oil to achieve its foreign policy goals.
国会上一次通过重要的能源法案已是七年前，自那时以来，各种能源问题已经成了首要问题。有人呼吁遏制全球变暖。一些科学家称煤、石油和天然气的燃烧加剧了全球变暖。水力压裂也引发了讨论。环保人士担心水力压裂会污染水供应，但它也带来了石油和天然气的增产。依靠俄罗斯提供能源供应的乌克兰爆发的危机，也引发了关于美国是否应该为了实现外交政策方面的目标而出口天然气和原油的问题。
The modest energy-efficiency bill would not have addressed any of those issues. It was a bundle of small-bore provisions aimed at cutting homeowners’ energy use, utility bills and carbon footprints by, among other measures, making it easier for consumers to buy “smart metered” water heaters and making it cheaper for manufacturers to build energy-efficient cooling and heating systems.
这个不温不火的能效法案解决不了这些问题中的任何一个。它包含的规定效力有限，目的是减少业主的能源使用量、水电费、碳足迹等等，促使消费者更倾向于购买“智能控制消耗量”的热水器，让制造商能以更低的成本生产高能效冷却和加热系统。
“These aren’t huge, bold things. But this is larger than losing this energy-efficiency bill,” said Margot Anderson, executive director of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s Energy Project. “What gets lost is any momentum on energy. People are worried that if we can’t even pass that, we’re not in good shape to tackle the bigger stuff. We can’t even get warmed up.”
“这些都不是什么重大、勇敢的举措。但是，这次失去的不只是一个能效法案，”两党政策中心(Bipartisan Policy Center)能源项目的执行主任玛戈·安德森(Margot Anderson)说。“还有大家在能源问题上的能动性。人们担心，如果连这个法案都通不过，那么我们就不足以应付更大的状况。我们连热身活动都没有做好。”
By late last week, it had become clear that the fight over the Keystone pipeline and Mr. Obama’s climate change regulations, both of which have become issues in the 2014 elections, had overshadowed the debate over energy efficiency.
到上周晚些时候，情况已经很明显：在Keystone输油管道和奥巴马气候变化法规问题上的争斗，把对能效的争论挤到了一边。前两者都在2014年的选举中出现的问题。
Mr. Obama has repeatedly delayed a decision on whether to approve the proposed 1,700-mile pipeline, which would carry 830,000 barrels a day of carbon-heavy crude from Canada’s Alberta oil sands to Gulf Coast refineries. The pipeline has become a political weapon for Republicans, who say it would create jobs and help ensure energy security for the United States.
奥巴马一再推迟是否批准修建Keystone管道的决定。这条拟建中的管道长1700英里，每天可以把83万桶重质原油从加拿大阿尔伯塔省的油砂地区，运输到到墨西哥湾沿岸的炼油厂。这条管道已成为共和党人的一个政治武器，他们说它可以创造就业机会，而且有助于确保美国的能源安全。
Four vulnerable Senate Democrats — Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana, Mark Begich of Alaska, Kay Hagan of North Carolina and Mark Pryor of Arkansas — have sought to distance themselves from Mr. Obama by supporting the pipeline.
四名影响力不大的民主党参议员——路易斯安那州的玛丽·L·兰德里欧(Mary L. Landrieu)、阿拉斯加州的马克·贝吉奇(Mark Begich)、北卡罗莱纳州的凯·黑根(Kay Hagan)和阿肯色州的马克·普赖尔(Mark Pryor)——与奥巴马拉开距离，支持兴建这条管道。
Republicans have also sought to use the climate change regulations that Mr. Obama is expected to announce soon — which will target coal-fired power plants, the nation’s largest source of carbon pollution — for political purposes by accusing Democrats of waging a “war on coal.”
共和党人也试图利用奥巴马可能在不久后公布的气候变化法规——该法规针对的是燃煤电厂，美国最大的碳污染源——指责民主党出于政治目的发动了一场“煤炭战争”。
Even if the Republican amendments had failed, party leaders had hoped the votes would put some incumbent Democrats on the spot. Republicans also argued that it was appropriate to offer energy-related amendments to an energy bill — especially given that it was the first such legislation on the floor in seven years. After a week of negotiations, the two sides reached an impasse, and the energy-efficiency bill was the casualty.
即使共和党的这个修正案失败了，该党领导人也希望投票表决过程会给一些民主党人施加压力。共和党人还认为，给一项能源法案提供与能源有关的修订案是合适的举动——尤其是考虑到这是七年来国会首次出现这样的立法。经过一个星期的谈判后，双方陷入僵局，而能效法案则成为了牺牲品。
Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, the ranking Republican on the Senate Energy Committee, was a co-sponsor of the legislation, and her spokesman, Robert Dillon, said, “It’s embarrassing that even an energy-efficiency bill can’t get past the floor.”
阿拉斯加共和党参议员、参议院能源委员会资深成员丽莎·穆尔科斯基(Lisa Murkowski)是这项立法的一个共同发起人，她的发言人罗伯特·迪伦(Robert Dillon)说，“这真令人尴尬，就连能效法案都没能在国会通过。”
“We used to have hundreds of votes on amendments. Now it’s all politics all the time. It’s all rhetoric,” Mr. Dillon said. “It’s frustrating to Republicans, and it’s frustrating to Democrats. There’s a lot of pent-up demand to have a real debate on energy.”
“修正案曾经有几百人投票。现在不管什么时候，一切东西都跟政治有关。一切东西都停留在语言上，“迪伦说。“这种情况让共和党气馁，让民主党灰心。人们需要对能源问题展开真正的辩论，这种需要遭到了很大的压抑。”