American Airlines suspended a flight attendant after an altercation on Friday in which the attendant took a stroller from a woman traveling with two young children and then argued with other passengers. The episode was captured, in part, on video.
在周五发生的一场争执后，美国航空公司将一名乘务员停职。这名乘务员将一辆婴儿车从一名带着两个幼儿出行的女子身边拿走，之后与其他乘客发生了争执。这个过程有一部分被拍下了视频。
The encounter, at San Francisco International Airport, occurred while the woman was boarding a Texas-bound flight. The attendant, whose name was not released by the airline, grabbed the stroller from the woman, who was carrying 15-month-old twins, a passenger who was nearby said.
事情发生在旧金山国际机场(San Francisco International Airport)，当时这名女子正在登上一架飞往德克萨斯的班机。附近的一名乘客表示，那名航空公司没有透露姓名的乘务员粗暴地从这名女子身边拿走了婴儿车，后者正抱着一对15个月大的双胞胎。
A video that circulated on social media showed the attendant nearly coming to blows with another passenger who threatened him after the altercation with the woman.
一段在社交媒体上传播开来的视频显示，乘务员与这名女子发生争执后，另一名乘客威胁了他，这名乘务员因此差点对那位乘客动手。
“What we see on this video does not reflect our values or how we care for our customers,” the airline said in a statement. “The actions of our team member captured here do not appear to reflect patience or empathy, two values necessary for customer care. In short, we are disappointed by these actions.”
“视频中显示的内容不代表我们的价值观，也不代表我们服务顾客的方式，”这家航空公司发声明表示。“这里拍到的我们的团队成员的举动，没能体现出耐心与同情心，这两项对我们服务客户是必不可少的。总之，我们对这些行为感到十分失望。”
The episode began when the plane was at the gate in San Francisco before a scheduled 1 p.m. departure to Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. It occurred in the area between the cockpit and the first-class seating section. Strollers are not permitted in airplane cabins, an airline spokeswoman said.
事件发生时，飞机停在旧金山国际机场的登机口，准备在1点出发，飞往达拉斯—沃思堡国际机场。事件发生的地点是驾驶舱和头等舱之间的区域。一位航空公司发言人表示，婴儿车是不能进入客舱的。
“He jerked it away from her and almost hit the baby in the head,” Olivia Morgan, the passenger who saw the episode unfold, said in a telephone interview.
“他从她身边一把扯过婴儿车，几乎打到了婴儿的头，”目击事情经过的乘客奥利维娅·摩根(Olivia Morgan)在接受电话采访时说道。
Morgan said that after she complained about the woman’s treatment, the attendant shouted at her.
摩根表示，她对这名女子的遭遇表示了抗议，那名乘务员便朝她大喊。
“He yells at me with his finger in my face, ‘You stay out of it!'” she said. “Full rage.”
“他用手指着我的脸大喊，‘你少管闲事！’”她说。“满腔怒火的样子。”
Surain Adyanthaya, who posted the video of the altercation on Facebook, wrote that the flight attendant had “violently” taken the stroller, “hitting her and just missing the baby.”
在Facebook上发布了争吵视频的苏拉因·阿迪安塔亚(Surain Adyanthaya)写道，那名乘务员“粗暴地”夺走婴儿车，“撞到了她，还差一点撞到婴儿”。
The video begins after the stroller has been removed. It shows the mother crying.
视频是在婴儿车被夺走之后开始录制的。视频显示母亲在哭泣。
When the flight attendant returns to the frame, a male passenger rises and threatens him.
当那名乘务员重新进入画面的时候，一名男性乘客站起身威胁了他。
The attendant turns to him, jabbing his finger in the air. “You stay out of this!” he says. Then, “Try it, hit me. Come on, bring it on.”
乘务员转向该乘客，用手指朝其指了指。“你别多管闲事！”他说。随后又说，“有种打我呀。来呀，来吧。”
“You almost hurt a baby,” the man says. “Maybe you’ll get videotaped, too, and get all over the news.”
“你差点儿伤到一个婴儿，”那个男人说。“或许你也应该被录下来，上各种新闻。”
American Airlines said that the woman and her family were put on a different flight. The airline said it had upgraded the family to first-class seats for the rest of their trip and was investigating the episode.
美国航空说那个女人及其家人被安排搭乘了另一趟航班。该航空公司说，这家人在后来的旅程中被升到了头等舱，公司目前正就这一事件展开调查。