Perhaps there’s more we could do to antagonize American allies.
如果想要进一步激怒美国的盟友，可能还是有空间的。
The National Security Agency could tweet Chancellor Angela Merkel’s juicy phone conversations, or post video clips on YouTube of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan singing in the shower.
美国国家安全局可以发布微博，内容是德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)有意思的电话内容；或者在YouTube上面公布日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)洗澡唱歌的视频短片。
The Pentagon could fly drones over Paris, dropping Big Macs on fine restaurants, just to show that we can.
五角大楼可以派无人机飞临巴黎上空，朝高级餐厅扔麦当劳巨无霸汉堡；这么做，就是为了显示出我们有这个能力。
Government officials fume at Edward Snowden and Chelsea Manning for harm they did to American security. Fair enough. But the latest uproar over our N.S.A. spying is a reminder of how senior American officials have themselves jeopardized our strategic interests — by overreaching and doing things just because they could.
对于爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)和切尔西·曼宁(Chelsea Manning)对美国的安全造成的损害，政府官员们感到非常愤怒。这可以理解。但是现在，对美国国家安全局的窃听行径怨声四起，这其实是在提醒美国高级官员们，其实他们自己就在损害美国的战略利益——他们做过了头，做了很多事情，原因仅仅因为他们有这个能力。
Our national security policy has gone off the rails since 9/11. For a dozen years, security has been an obsession, rarely constrained by a weighing of trade-offs, and to what result? We have sought every tactical advantage, and this sometimes leads — as in eavesdropping of foreign allies — to strategic losses.
从9·11之后，我们的国家安全政策就被完全打乱了。过去十二年里，我们痴迷于安全问题，基本上从不考虑让步，结果如何？我们总是想要找到战术上的优势，但是，有时候这却会导致战略上的挫败——对盟国进行窃听即为一例。
We have doubled spending on intelligence, after inflation, to more than $70 billion annually. More people have “top secret” clearances than live in the District of Columbia — and it was inevitable that there would be some rogues among them. When everything is classified, the system loses credibility, transparency and accountability.
就算考虑通货膨胀，我们现在每年的情报开支也已经翻了一番，达到700亿美元（约合4200亿元人民币）。拥有“最高机密”权限的人数，比哥伦比亚特区的居民人数还多——这些人中难免出现不守规矩的人。如果什么东西都是保密的，那么整个系统就会失去公信力，透明度，最后也无人负责任。
The war on terror led us to fight wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, achieving few obvious gains but costing thousands of American lives. For every jihadi we killed, we appear to have created several new ones.
反恐战争让我们卷入伊拉克和阿富汗的战事，明显的收益很少，但是却付出了数以千计的美国生命。每击毙一名圣战主义者，我们似乎又制造出好几名新的圣战主义者出来。
As a Chinese saying goes, we lifted up a rock and dropped it on our own feet.
正像一句中国俗语所说的，真是搬起石头砸自己的脚。
When he took office, President Obama seemed likely to reorient security policy. He did, indeed, bring troops back from Iraq and, after a misconceived “surge” in Afghanistan, is winding down our presence there.
当奥巴马总统就职时，他似乎有可能会调整安全政策。事实上，他确实做了些调整，比方说从伊拉克撤军，并且在不明智地对阿富汗“增兵”之后，开始缩小美国在阿富汗的驻军规模。
But, over all, his security policy is surprisingly similar to President Bush’s: Guantánamo remains an affront to our values and the world’s, N.S.A. spying programs continue in force, drone strikes have been stepped up, and the White House has tried to curb serious public conversation about drones, spying and cyberwarfare. The Obama administration has prosecuted more whistle-blowers under the Espionage Act than all previous administrations put together.
但是总的来说，他的安全政策跟布什总统惊人地相似：关塔那摩监狱依然存在，而这是对美国和全世界价值观的公然侮辱；美国国家安全局的间谍项目仍在强势运作，无人机袭击逐步强化，白宫也开始想要钳制关于无人机、间谍行为和网络战争的公开讨论。通过《间谍法案》，奥巴马政府公诉的爆料人人数，比之前历任政府加起来都要多。
The latest scandal involving our spying on European leaders is symptomatic of this larger myopia about our strategic interests.
最新的这起关于窃听欧洲领袖的丑闻，极好地反映了我们在战略利益上的短视。
It’s true that some of the outrage in Europe is affected. As Bernard Kouchner, the former foreign minister of France, bluntly noted in a radio interview: “Let’s be honest. We eavesdrop, too. Everyone is listening to everyone else. But we don’t have the same means as the United States, which makes us jealous.”
欧洲方面表现出来的愤怒多少有假装的成分，这没错。法国前外交部长贝尔纳·库什内(Bernard Kouchner)在接受一次电台采访时坦承：“老实说吧，法国人也会窃听。每个人都会窃听别人说些什么。但是我们没有美国人那样的条件，这让我们感到嫉妒。”
Still, our eavesdropping seems to have broken German law, as well as the first rule of spying: Don’t get caught.
不过，我们的窃听似乎是违反了德国法律的，而且也违背了间谍的首要原则：别被人抓住。
If President Obama really didn’t know that 35 world leaders were being listened to, something was wrong with intelligence oversight. A former C.I.A. senior official says that before 9/11, that kind of monitoring of world leaders was always cleared by the White House.
35位国家元首都被窃听，如果奥巴马总统真的毫不知情，那么情报监管肯定出了问题。一位前中央情报局高级官员说，在9·11之前，对外国元首进行这样的监控，是肯定要经过白宫首肯的。
“Anything with senior government officials or heads of state was checked quite carefully, at least with the national security adviser, if not the president,” the official told me.
这位官员还告诉我，“对于涉及高级政府官员和国家元首的任何行动，一般都检查得特别细；如果不是总统本人，最少也是国家安全顾问。”
Yet, since 9/11, our security policy has been on autopilot: If we can spy on Merkel, let’s do it! If we can use a drone to kill a suspected terrorist, go for it! If we can keep people indefinitely in Guantánamo, why not?
但是，在9·11之后，我们的安全政策基本上就是在自动运转：如果我们能够监听默克尔，那么我们就这么干吧！如果我们能够用无人机击毙一名恐怖嫌犯，那就行动吧！如果我们能够无限期地把人关在关塔那摩监狱，那为什么不呢？
Our hubris has undercut America’s greatest foreign policy advantage: our soft power. In Pakistan, for example, our drone strikes have removed some dangerous militants. But drone strikes deeply antagonized the Pakistani people, tarnishing our image and reducing our leverage in a pivotal country. Our drones damaged our own influence in Pakistan more than the Taliban’s.
我们的这种傲慢，正在蚕食美国外交政策最大的优势，即美国的软实力。比方说，在巴基斯坦，我们的无人机袭击确实消灭了一些危险的恐怖分子。但是无人机袭击却深深地激怒了巴基斯坦人民，损害了美国的形象，削弱了我们在这个重要国家的影响力。在巴基斯坦，无人机对我们的影响力造成的损害，甚于它对塔利班的损害。
As David Rohde of Reuters puts it: “The United States obsession with Al Qaeda is doing more damage to the nation than the terrorist group itself.”
路透社的大卫·罗德(David Rohde)这样说，“美国一心想要铲除基地组织，但是这种执迷对美国的损害，比这个恐怖组织带来的害处还要大。”
Richard Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations, notes that the majority of Europeans today have no memory of the Cold War and that, as a result, we have less leeway today to antagonize our allies. “This is a different geopolitical era,” he said. “We can’t assume that people are for us.”
理查德·哈斯(Richard Haass)是国际关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)主席。他表示，今天大多数的欧洲人都不记得冷战了，因此，激怒这些盟友之后，我们当下的回旋余地要小得多。他说，“这是一个不一样的地缘政治时代。我们不能假设，人们都是拥护我们的。”
Yes, there is still a place for drones, for spying on allies, for the N.S.A. But they need to be subjected to scrutiny, context and brakes, as they were before 9/11.
当然，无人机、对盟友的监听，甚至美国国家安全局，都还是有存在必要的。但是所有这些都必须接受审查，要考虑特定的背景，同时该设立终止机制，就像9·11之前一样。
Commercial aviation would be safer if we were all required to fly stark naked. But we accept trade-offs — such as clothing — and thus some small risk. In the same way, it’s time to pause for a breath in the security realm and start examining the trade-offs, rather than just doing things because we can.
如果我们要求所有人在飞行时一丝不挂，那么，商业飞行的安全性肯定会有提升。但是我们还是接受了转圜，允许乘客穿衣服，因此会带来些许小风险。同样道理，在安全领域不断扩展的今天，是时候停一停，去检视一下是否存在让步的空间；而不是仅仅因为我们有能力，就一意孤行。