WASHINGTON — Moving a step closer to possible American military action in Syria, a senior Obama administration official said Sunday that there was “very little doubt” that President Bashar al-Assad’s military forces had used chemical weapons against civilians last week and that a Syrian promise to allow United Nations inspectors access to the site was “too late to be credible.”
华盛顿——周日，奥巴马政府一名高级官员表示，“几乎可以肯定”，巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)的军队上周曾对平民使用化学武器，而且叙利亚允许联合国(United Nations)调查员前往现场调查的承诺“来得太迟，已经没有意义”，这说明美国可能在对叙利亚采取军事行动方面又迈进了一步。
The official, in a written statement, said that “based on the reported number of victims, reported symptoms of those who were killed or injured, witness accounts and other facts gathered by open sources, the U.S. intelligence community, and international partners, there is very little doubt at this point that a chemical weapon was used by the Syrian regime against civilians in this incident.”
这名官员在一份书面声明中表示，“根据上报的遇难者人数、伤亡人士出现的症状、目击者证词、通过公开来源获取的实际情况，以及美国情报机构和国际合作伙伴的调查，我们几乎可以肯定，叙利亚政权在该事件中对平民使用了化学武器。”
The statement, released Sunday morning on the condition that the official not be named, reflected a tougher tone after President Obama’s meeting at the White House on Saturday with his national security team, during which advisers discussed options for military action.
一位不具名的官员在周日上午发布了这份声明，声明反映出奥巴马总统于周六在白宫与其国家安全团队举行会议后采取了更加强硬的态度，顾问们曾在会议中就军事行动的选择展开讨论。
While administration officials emphasized that Mr. Obama had not decided to take action, they said he was determined not to be drawn into a protracted debate over gaining access for the United Nations investigators, because of doubts that they could now produce credible findings.
政府官员强调，奥巴马还没决定采取行动。他们又表示，总统决意不被卷入有关帮助联合国调查员进入现场的长期辩论中，因为他们怀疑，调查员现在可能无法找出可靠的证据。
Officials say that a list of possible targets for a military strike has been circulating in the White House since late last week. The list, which the Pentagon originally prepared months ago for Mr. Obama, includes both chemical-weapons sites and broader military and government targets, depending on the type of action the president orders. If strikes are carried out, the targets would probably be hit by cruise missiles fired from Navy ships.
官员们表示，白宫内部自上周晚些时候开始传阅一份军事打击的潜在目标清单。这份清单最初是由五角大楼(Pentagon)在几个月前为奥巴马准备的，其中既包括化学武器储藏地，也包括更广范围的军队及政府目标，这取决于政府决定的行动类型。如果进行打击，这些目标可能会受到从海军战舰发射的巡航导弹的攻击。
The president, who warned a year ago that the use of chemical weapons by Syrian government forces would be a “red line,” has faced criticism from Congressional Republicans and others for failing to respond more forcefully to evidence of earlier, smaller-scale chemical attacks. Mr. Obama, who inherited two costly wars — in Iraq and Afghanistan — has been extremely reluctant to commit American military forces, even in the form of missile strikes, to another tangled conflict in the Middle East.
奥巴马总统一年前曾警告，叙利亚政府部队使用化学武器将被视为跨越“红线”的行为，他因为没能对早前较小规模的化学武器攻击事件做出更强有力的回应，受到了国会共和党议员及其他人的批评。奥巴马接手了两场代价高昂的战争——伊拉克和阿富汗战争，他十分不愿意派遣军事力量参与中东地区的另一场混乱冲突，即便只是发动导弹袭击。
But on Sunday, the White House seemed to take a harder line, dismissing the Syrian promise of possible access by United Nations inspectors.
但周日，白宫似乎采取了较为强硬的路线，不理会叙利亚可能允许联合国调查员进入现场的承诺。
Mr. Obama spoke on Sunday with the French president, François Hollande, and the White House said they had expressed “grave concern” about the reported Syrian chemical attack and “discussed possible responses by the international community.” Mr. Obamaspoke on Saturday to the British prime minister, David Cameron.
奥巴马于周日与法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)进行了交谈，白宫表示，他们对上报的叙利亚使用化学武器进行攻击一事表示“严重关切”，并“讨论了国际社会可能采取的行动。”奥巴马于周六与英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)通了电话。
Those discussions, officials said, were meant to gauge whether Britain and France are on the same page as the United States, given that they could be part of a coalition carrying out strikes against Syria.
官员们表示，考虑到英国和法国可能成为联盟的一部分，一同发起针对叙利亚的军事打击，奥巴马要通过这些对话判定它们是否与美国立场一致。
While officials said the United States would still hold consultations at the United Nations, they made it clear that the United Nations was not the only avenue for taking action against Syria.
官员们说，美国仍将在联合国继续参与磋商，同时他们也明确表示，联合国不是对叙利亚采取行动的唯一途径。
Early on Sunday, the White House said Syrian officials had refused to let the inspectors see the site of the attack. But Syrian television later reported an agreement to allow access beginning on Monday. The administration official who released the statement said the offer, even if sincere, might be meaningless because of the time that had already passed since the attack.
周日早间，白宫表示，叙利亚官员拒绝让调查员查看遭受攻击的区域。但叙利亚电视台报道的一项协议称，该区域将从周一开始向调查员开放。发布这份声明的政府官员说，这个举动即使是真诚的，可能也没有意义，因为此时距离攻击发生已经过去了不少时间。
“The evidence available has been significantly corrupted as a result of the regime’s persistent shelling and other intentional actions over the last five days,” the official said.
“证据已经被严重破坏，因为在过去五天中，政府军对其采取了持续炮击和其他刻意的行动。”这位官员说。
The official, however, did not suggest that Mr. Obama had decided to take action. “We are continuing to assess the facts so the president can make an informed decision about how to respond to this indiscriminate use of chemical weapons,” the official said.
不过，这位官员没有说奥巴马已经决定要采取行动。“我们正在继续对情况进行评估，以便总统做出明智的决定，以应对这种不加区分地使用化学武器的状况。”这位官员说。
But by labeling as “indiscriminate” the attack on Wednesday in a Damascus suburb, which reportedly killed hundreds of civilians, the official suggested that the United States viewed the latest assault as different from the smaller suspected chemical attacks that had not provoked American military action.
上周三大马士革郊区遭受的袭击，据称导致了数百名平民丧生；该官员称之为“不加区分”，暗示美国可能将其跟较小的疑似化学武器的袭击区别看待，那些袭击没有促使美国采取军事行动。
The Syrian government has denied using chemical weapons as part of a civil war that has left more than 100,000 people dead. On Saturday it said its soldiers had found chemical supplies in areas seized from rebel forces. Russia, an ally of the Syrian government, accused the rebels of using the weapons, but few analysts believe they have the supplies or ability to do so.
叙利亚内战已经导致10万人死亡，该国政府否认在内战中使用化学武器。上周六，据说政府军士兵在从叛军手中夺取的地区发现了化学武器。叙利亚政府的盟友俄罗斯指责叛军使用这类武器，但极少有分析师相信叛军拥有这些武器或有能力拥有它们。
In a response that suggested concern about a possible imminent American attack, Moscow welcomed Syria’s acceptance of inspections and cautioned against a rush to judgment. A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, Aleksandr K. Lukashevich, said that those who advocated an armed response to any chemical weapons attack — without citing the United States or other countries — were prejudging the results of the United Nations inspections.
莫斯科对叙利亚接受调查的态度表示了欢迎，并告诫大家不要急于下定论，这一回应表明俄罗斯对美国可能即将发动攻击的担忧。俄罗斯外交部发言人亚历山大·卢卡舍维奇(Aleksandr K. Lukashevich)说，那些主张对任何化学武器攻击采取武力回应的人，是在对联合国的武器调查结果进行臆断；他没有具体提到美国或其他国家。
“In these conditions, we again resolutely call on all those who are trying to impose the results of the U.N. investigations and who say that armed actions against Syria is possible to show common sense and avoid tragic mistakes,” Mr. Lukashevich said in a statement released Sunday evening on the ministry’s Web site.
周日晚间，卢卡舍维奇在外交部网站上发布的一份声明中说：“在这种情况下，我们再次坚决呼吁所有那些正在试图臆断联合国调查结果的人，以及声称可以对叙利亚采取武装行动的人，请他们谨守常识，避免悲剧性的错误发生。”
Syria warned that any American military action would “create a ball of fire that will inflame the Middle East,” according to The Associated Press. And Iranian state news media quoted the Tehran government as saying that any intervention by Washington would have severe consequences.
据美联社报道，叙利亚警告说，美国采取的任何军事行动都“会在中东点燃一个火球”。而伊朗国家新闻媒体援引德黑兰政府的话说，华盛顿进行任何干预都将造成严重后果。