WASHINGTON — As American intelligence agencies grapple with the expansion of the Islamic State beyond its headquarters in Syria, the Pentagon has proposed a new plan to the White House to build up a string of military bases in Africa, Southwest Asia and the Middle East.
华盛顿——随着美国情报机构努力应对伊斯兰国(Islamic State)在叙利亚据点之外的不断扩张，五角大楼向白宫提交了一项新计划，准备在非洲、西南亚及中东地区建立一系列军事基地。
The bases could be used for collecting intelligence and carrying out strikes against the terrorist group’s far-flung affiliates.
这些军事基地可以用于收集情报，并对该恐怖组织延伸甚广的分支实施打击。
The growth of the Islamic State’s franchises — at least eight militant groups have pledged loyalty to the network’s leaders so far — has forced a debate within the Obama administration about how to distinguish between the affiliates that pose the most immediate threat to the United States and Europe and others that are more regionally focused. The regional groups, some officials say, may have opportunistically adopted the Islamic State’s brand to bolster their local clout and global stature.
迄今为止，至少有八个激进组织宣誓效忠伊斯兰国的头目。该组织旗下分支的增多迫使奥巴马政府内部开始争论，该如何甄别哪些分支对美国、欧洲造成了最直接的威胁，哪些则更关注某些区域。一些官员称，区域性团伙可能是想利用伊斯兰国的名号，借机扩大它们在当地的势力和在全球的声望。
In the midst of that debate, senior military officials have told the White House that the network of bases would serve as hubs for Special Operations troops and intelligence operatives who would conduct counterterrorism missions for the foreseeable future. The plan would all but ensure what Pentagon officials call an “enduring” American military presence in some of the world’s most volatile regions.
在这场争论中，高级军官告诉白宫，这些基地组成的网络，可以充当特种部队和情报人员行动的中枢，而这些人员会在可预见的未来执行反恐任务。该计划几乎确保了一种情形的发生，即五角大楼官员所形容的，美军在世界上最不稳定地区“持续”的存在。
Administration officials said that the proposal for the new basing system, presented to the White House this fall by Gen. Martin E. Dempsey during his final days as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was not intended to be a specific Pentagon proposal to combat the affiliates of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. The officials said that it was meant primarily as a re-examination of how the military positions itself for future counterterrorism missions, but that the growing concern about a metastasizing Islamic State threat has lent new urgency to the discussions.
政府官员表示，建立一系列新基地的计划，是马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)在担任美国参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席的最后日子里，于今年秋季提交给白宫的。该提议并不是五角大楼就打击伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）的分支提出的具体方案。官员们表示，提议主要是对军方在未来反恐任务中的定位做出的重新审视，但伊斯兰国扩展的威胁引发了越来越多的担忧，使得相关讨论变得更加紧迫。
The White House declined to comment about continuing internal deliberations. The plan has met with some resistance from State Department officials concerned about a more permanent military presence across Africa and the Middle East, according to American officials familiar with the discussion. Career diplomats have long warned about the creeping militarization of American foreign policy as the Pentagon has forged new relationships with foreign governments eager for military aid.
白宫拒绝就仍在进行的内部讨论发表评论。据了解情况的美国官员透露，该计划遭到了一些国务院官员的反对，他们对在非洲及中东地区更为持久地驻军感到担忧。随着五角大楼与渴望得到军事援助的外国政府建立新关系，职业外交官早就对美国外交政策军事化的悄然加剧提出过警告。
Officials said the proposal has been under discussion for some time, including this week during a White House meeting with some members of President Obama’s cabinet. Shortly after General Dempsey retired in September, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter referred to the plan in a speech at the Woodrow Wilson International Center in Washington. “Because we cannot predict the future, these regional nodes — from Morón, Spain, to Jalalabad, Afghanistan — will provide forward presence to respond to a range of crises, terrorist and other kinds,” Mr. Carter said. “These will enable unilateral crisis response, counterterror operations, or strikes on high-value targets.”
官员们表示，有关该提议的讨论已经持续了一段时间，比如，本周白宫与奥巴马内阁成员举行会议期间就谈到此事。邓普西上将于今年9月退休，不久之后，国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)在华盛顿的伍德罗·威尔逊国际学者中心(Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars)发表讲话时，提到了这一计划。“因为我们无法预测未来，这些地区性节点——从西班牙的莫隆到阿富汗的贾拉拉巴德——将充当滩头阵地，以应对各种危机，包括恐怖袭击及其他类型的危机，”卡特说。“这将使得单边危机应对、反恐行动或打击高价值目标的行动成为可能。”
Pentagon planners do not see the new approach as particularly costly by military standards. One official estimated it could be in the “low millions of dollars,” mainly to pay for military personnel, equipment and some base improvements.
五角大楼的筹划者认为，按照军方标准来看，新计划的成本并不高昂。一名官员估计，该计划可能只需要“不多的几百万美元”，主要用于支付军队人员的薪酬、装备费用及一些基地的改建费用。
For the approach to have any chance of success, analysts said, regional American commanders, diplomats and spies will have to work closely together and with Washington — something that does not always happen now — to combat threats that honor no borders. “You can’t just leave this on cruise control,” said Vikram J. Singh, a former official at the Pentagon and State Department who is now vice president for national security and international policy at the Center for American Progress.
分析人士表示，为了使新方法获得成功，对抗跨越边界的威胁，各地区的美军指挥官、外交官及间谍需要开展密切合作，并与华盛顿方面配合——这种情况目前很少见。曾在五角大楼和国务院供职的维克拉姆·J·辛格(Vikram J. Singh)表示，“不能让他们自行其是。”辛格目前是美国进步中心(Center for American Progress)主管国家安全和国际政策的副主任。
Officials said that the Pentagon’s proposed new architecture of bases would include four “hubs” — including expanding existing bases in Djibouti and Afghanistan — and smaller “spokes,” or more basic installations, in countries that could include Niger and Cameroon, where the United States now carries out unarmed surveillance drone missions, or will soon.
官员们表示，五角大楼提出的建立新基地的构想中包含四个“枢纽”(hub)，包括在吉布提和阿富汗扩建现有的基地；以及位于尼日尔、喀麦隆等国规模较小的“分支”(spoke)，或者说较为基本的设施，美国现在或即将在这些地区开展非武装无人机监控任务。
The hubs would range in size from about 500 American troops to 5,000 personnel, and the likely cost would be “several million dollars” a year, mostly in personnel expenses, Pentagon officials said. They would also require the approval of the host nation.
五角大楼官员表示，这些“枢纽”的美国士兵人数从500名到5000名不等，每年消耗的费用可能是“几百万美元”，主要用于人员开销。它们还需要得到基地所在国的批准。
The new approach would try to bring an ad hoc series of existing bases into one coherent system that would be able to confront regional threats from the Islamic State, Al Qaeda or other terrorist groups — including possible attacks against American embassies, like the assault on the diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, in 2012. It would also ensure that the bases would receive regular financing in the annual Pentagon budget and it could lengthen — and make more predictable — troop deployments, especially among Special Operations forces who often rotate assignments every several months.
新计划会努力将目前存在的一系列用途单一的基地融合成一个协调的系统，以对抗伊斯兰国、基地组织或其他恐怖组织造成的地区性威胁——包括针对美国使领馆的潜在袭击，比如2012年利比亚班加西美国使团驻地遭遇的那种袭击。该计划还会确保这些基地可以在五角大楼的年度预算中定期获得资金，也可以延长军队部署期限，并让部署活动更容易预期，尤其是每隔几个月就会轮换的特种部队。
A senior Pentagon official said the proposal was still very much in its early stages, with some officials advocating a larger string of new bases in West Africa, and others, mindful of African fears about a large American military footprint on the continent, saying the main hub for West Africa would actually be located in southern Europe. Any American bases in Africa, they said, might have approximately 500 soldiers.
五角大楼的一名高级官员表示，该提议在很大程度上仍处于初期阶段，一些官员提议在西非建立更多新基地，而考虑到非洲国家对美国在该大陆大规模驻军的担忧，另一些官员表示，面向西非的主要集结地实际上应该设在欧洲南部。他们表示，美国在非洲的军事基地中，每座可能有大约500名士兵。