WASHINGTON — A former Navy reservist killed at least 12 people on Monday in a mass shooting at a naval office building in Washington after he shot his way into the secure military facility, officials said, and then was killed by the police.
华盛顿——官员称，周一，一名前海军预备役人员一路开枪闯入华盛顿的一座海军办公楼，在这栋安全军事设施制造了一起大规模枪击事件，打死了至少12人，随后被警察击毙。
Parts of the nation’s capital were put on lockdown in the day after the shooting on the edge of Capitol Hill as the police sought two other armed suspects spotted by video cameras. But by Monday evening, federal authorities said they believed the shooting was the act of a lone gunman.
这起枪击案发生在国会山边缘，次日，美国首都的部分地区被封锁，警方对摄像机拍到的另外两名武装嫌疑人进行了搜索。不过，周一晚间，联邦当局称，他们相信枪击案是单独的一名枪手所为。
At Washington’s Navy Yard, the chaos started just after 8 a.m. Civilian employees described a scene of confusion as shots erupted through the hallways of the Naval Sea Systems Command headquarters, on the banks of the Anacostia River a few miles from the White House and about a half-mile from the Capitol.
在华盛顿海军造船厂，混乱在早上8点刚过的时候开始。非军籍雇员描绘了一幅混乱场面，出事之时，枪声响彻了海军海上系统司令部(Naval Sea Systems Command)的走廊。这里位于安那考斯迪亚河河岸，离白宫有几英里远，离国会大厦只有半英里左右。
“I heard three gunshots, pow, pow, pow, straight in a row,” said Patricia Ward, a logistics management specialist from Woodbridge, Va., who was in the cafeteria on the first floor when the shooting started. “About three seconds later, there were four more gunshots, and all of the people in the cafeteria were panicking, trying to figure out which way we were going to run out.”
“我听到连续三声枪响，砰、砰、砰，”来自弗吉尼亚州伍德布里奇的物流管理专家帕特里夏·沃德(Patricia Ward)说。枪击开始之时，她待在一楼的自助餐厅里。“大约三秒之后，又有四声枪响，自助餐厅内的所有人都很恐慌，都在找逃出去的路。”
Police officers who swarmed the military facility exchanged fire with a gunman later identified by the federal authorities as Aaron Alexis, 34, a former naval reservist from Fort Worth, Tex. Police officers shot and killed Mr. Alexis, law enforcement officials said, but not before a dozen people were killed and several others, including a police officer, were injured and taken to local hospitals.
包围这座军事设施的警员与一名枪手进行了交火，联邦当局后来确认，枪手是34岁的阿龙·亚历克西斯(Aaron Alexis)，是一名来得克萨斯州自沃思堡的前海军预备役人员。执法官员称，警方开枪击毙了亚历克西斯，但此前已有12人被杀，还有包括一名警官在内的数人受伤，伤者已被送入当地医院。
Officials said Mr. Alexis was able to drive onto the base and began firing as he approached Building 197, shooting an officer. Once inside, Mr. Alexis made his way to a floor overlooking an atrium and took aim at the employees eating breakfast below.
官员称，亚历克西斯驱车冲入基地，并在靠近197号楼时开始射击，打中了一名军官。冲进基地之后，亚历克西斯立刻冲上了一个俯瞰中庭的楼层，并瞄准下面吃早餐的员工开枪射击。
“He was shooting down from above the people,” one law enforcement official said. “That is where he does most of his damage.”
“当时他居高临下，向人们开枪，”一名执法官员称。“他造成的大部分伤亡都发生在那里。”
Three weapons were found on Mr. Alexis: an AR-15 assault rifle, a shotgun and a semiautomatic pistol, a senior law enforcement officer said. Officials said they were still searching for a motive as they asked the public for help by posting pictures of Mr. Alexis on the F.B.I. Web site.
一名高级执法官员称，警方在亚历克西斯身上发现了3件武器：一支AR-15自动步枪、一支霰弹枪和一把半自动手枪。官员称，他们仍在寻找凶手的杀人动机，并已把亚历克西斯的照片发布在联邦调查局(FBI)的网站上，寻求公众帮助。
Navy officials said late Monday that Mr. Alexis had worked as a contractor in information technology. A spokesman for Hewlett-Packard said Mr. Alexis had been an employee of a company called The Experts, a subcontractor on an HP Enterprise Services contract. Navy officials said Mr. Alexis was discharged in 2011 after exhibiting a “pattern of misbehavior,” which officials declined to detail. Because of the lockdown at the Navy Yard, the officials said they were still unable to search databases to determine his current employment status, or whether he had been fired.
海军官员在周一晚间称，亚历克西斯曾是一家信息技术承包商的雇员。惠普公司(Hewlett-Packard)的一名发言人称，亚历克西斯曾是一家名为“专家”(The Experts)的公司的雇员，该公司是惠普企业服务(HP Enterprise Services)合同的一家分包商。海军官员称，亚历克西斯在2011年遭到解雇，原因是他表现出了一种“不当行为模式”，对此官员拒绝详细说明。因为海军造船厂被封锁，官员称他们仍无法搜索数据库来确认他当前的就业情况，或他是否曾被开除。
The police in Seattle, where Mr. Alexis once lived, said Monday that they had arrested him in 2004 for shooting the tires of another man’s vehicle in what Mr. Alexis later described to detectives as an anger-fueled “blackout.”
亚历克西斯曾在西雅图居住，当地警方周一称，他们在2004年逮捕过他，因为他开枪射击另一名男子的汽车轮胎，亚历克西斯后来告诉警方，他当时处于由愤怒引发的“短路状态”。
Eleanor Holmes Norton, the Congressional representative for the District of Columbia, called the episode “an attack on our city.”
哥伦比亚特区的国会代表埃莉诺·霍姆斯·诺顿(Eleanor Holmes Norton)称这一幕为“对我们城市的攻击”。
“It’s an attack on our country,” she added.
她还说，“这是对我们国家的攻击。”
Mayor Vincent C. Gray called it a “long, tragic day.” President Obama praised the victims of the shooting as patriots.
华盛顿市市长文森特·C·格雷(Vincent C. Gray)把这一天称为“悲剧性的漫长一天”。奥巴马总统褒扬枪击案的受害者是爱国者。
The tension in the city was heightened for much of the day as the city’s police said they were still unsure whether Mr. Alexis had acted alone. Officials said surveillance video of people fleeing the scene of the shooting showed two armed men dressed in different military uniforms and wielding guns. For hours, the police said they believed that there might have been three gunmen and that two of them were on the loose in the city.
当日的大部分时间，市内的紧张情绪始终高涨，原因是本市警方表示，他们依然不确定，亚历克西斯是不是单独作案。官员们说，一段监控录像显示了人们逃离枪击现场的场面，其中有两名携带武器的男子，身穿不同的军装，挥舞着枪械。警方说，有几个小时，他们认为也许有三名枪手，其中两名还在市内。
Officials later cleared one of the two men seen on the surveillance video. They continued to search for a black man about 50 years old who was wearing an olive-colored military-style uniform and was believed to be carrying a “long gun.”
官员们后来排除了监控录像中出现的一名男子。他们继续搜索一名50岁上下的黑人，此人身穿橄榄色的军装式制服，据信携有一支“长枪”。
The reports of multiple suspects generated confusion across Washington as the authorities offered conflicting messages about any continuing danger. Officials did not move to secure the city, leaving the city’s subway system to operate normally. But out of an “abundance of caution,” Terrance W. Gainer, the Senate sergeant-at-arms, put the Senate complex into lockdown at after 3 p.m. The Senate had recessed in the early afternoon.
存在多名疑犯的报道在华盛顿各处引发了混乱，这是因为，关于持续存在的危险，当局提供了自相矛盾的讯息。官员们没有行动起来确保城市安全，市内的地铁系统照常运营。不过，出于“慎之又慎的考虑”，参议院侍从长特伦斯·W·盖纳(Terrance W. Gainer)宣布，下午三点之后，参议院大楼进入封闭状态。此前，参议院已于午后不久休会。
Monday morning, the shooting started at 8:20 on a drizzly day at the Navy Yard, which sits at one end of the 11th Street Bridge, a major thoroughfare bringing traffic into the city from Maryland.
枪击事件从周一早上的8点20分开始，当时天上飘着毛毛细雨，案发地点是坐落在11街大桥(11th Street Bridge)一端的海军造船厂，11街大桥是连接马里兰和市区的交通要道。
Within minutes of the first reports of shots, hundreds of police officers and naval officers surrounded the Naval Sea Systems Command headquarters, where about 3,000 service members, civilians and contractors work on the Navy’s fleet. Military helicopters circled the facility as police vehicles and other emergency vehicles rushed to the Navy Yard. A helicopter lowered a basket to the roof of one of the buildings and appeared to be taking away victims.
接到枪击事件的最初报告后，数百名警官和海军军官在几分钟之内就包围了海军海上系统司令部，那里有3000名左右的现役军人、文职人员和承包商在为海军舰队工作。军用直升机在司令部上方盘旋，警车和其他急救车辆火速抵达海军造船厂。一架直升机向其中一栋建筑的屋顶降下一个吊篮，似乎是在接受害者。
Investigators were still trying to determine how Mr. Alexis gained access to the Navy Yard. The site is protected by a high wall, with entry through checkpoints that require official identification. However, under the “force protection status” that was believed to have been in effect early Monday, someone with official access to the site could have driven a car into the parking lot without having the trunk inspected, or could have entered on foot without having a bag searched.
调查人员依然在设法弄清亚历克西斯进入海军造船厂的方法。海军造船厂处于高墙的保护之下，进入其中需要向检查站出具官方证件。据信，这种“强力保护状态”在周一早间一直是生效的，即便是在这种情况下，某个身携海军造船厂正式通行证的人还是有可能在车厢未经检查的情况下开车进入停车场，还可能在提包未经搜查的情况下徒步走进大院。
Employees evacuated from the building described a chaotic situation as an individual armed with a rifle roamed the hallways shooting at people.
疏散的楼内员工描述了一幅混乱的场景，当时，有个人拿着一支步枪，穿过走廊向人群射击。
Cmdr. Tim Jirus said he was on the fourth floor when he heard gunshots and saw people start running through the office. The commander said he was at the back of the building working to get people out when a man came out of a maintenance building and approached him, asking about the shooting. Moments later, the man, a civilian, was shot in the head, he said.
海军中校蒂姆·吉鲁斯(Tim Jirus)说，他听到了枪击声，看到人们开始跑出办公室，那时他还在四楼。吉鲁斯说，他在大楼后部设法疏散人群的时候，一名男性文职人员从一个维修车间走出来，走到他的身边，询问枪击的事情。他说，片刻之后，这个人的头部就中了枪。
“We had a conversation for about a minute,” Commander Jirus said. “I heard two gunshots, and he went down, and then I ran back here.”
吉鲁斯说，“我们交谈了大约一分钟。我听到两声枪响，他倒了下去，然后我就跑回了这里。”
Asked how he escaped when the man next to him was shot, he said: “Luck. Grace of God. Whatever you want to call it.”
关于他为何能在身边的人中枪的情况之下逃脱，他回答说，“也许是运气。也许是上帝的恩典。你怎么形容都成。”