WASHINGTON — As an October chill fell on the mountain passes that separate the militant havens in Afghanistan and Pakistan, a small team of Afghan intelligence commandos and American Special Operations forces descended on a village where they believed a leader of Al Qaeda was hiding.
华盛顿——当10月的寒意沁入激进分子藏身的阿富汗和巴基斯坦边境地区的山脉时，由阿富汗情报突击队和美国特种作战部队组成的一队人马突袭了一座村庄——他们认为那里躲藏着基地组织(Al Qaeda)的一名领导人。
That night the Afghans and Americans got their man, Abu Bara al-Kuwaiti. They also came away with what officials from both countries say was an even bigger prize: a laptop computer and files detailing Qaeda operations on both sides of the border.
那天晚上，美阿联手找到了他们想抓住的阿布·巴拉·科威提(Abu Bara al-Kuwaiti)。但两国官员表示，他们还有更大的收获：一台笔记本电脑，以及一些文件，其中详细记录了基地组织在边界两侧的行动方案。
American military officials said the intelligence seized in the raid was possibly as significant as the information found in the computer and documents of Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad, Pakistan, after members of the Navy SEALs killed him in 2011.
美国军方官员称，这次突袭中查获的情报，其重要性或许可以和海军海豹突击队成员2011年在巴基斯坦阿伯塔巴德击毙奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)之后，在他的计算机和资料库中找到的那些情报媲美。
In the months since, the trove of intelligence has helped fuel a significant increase in night raids by American Special Operations forces and Afghan intelligence commandos, Afghan and American officials said.
阿富汗和美国官员透露，之后这几个月里，在这批珍贵情报的帮助下，美国特种作战部队和阿富汗情报突击队开展夜袭活动的次数显著增加了。
The spike in raids is at odds with policy declarations in Washington, where the Obama administration has deemed the American role in the war essentially over. But the increase reflects the reality in Afghanistan, where fierce fighting in the past year killed record numbers of Afghan soldiers, police officers and civilians.
然而，袭击行动的陡增与华盛顿的政策声明之间存在着矛盾。在华盛顿，奥巴马政府宣称美国在这场战争中的角色已经基本谢幕。但袭击的增加反映了阿富汗的现实状况：在过去一年里，激战导致该国军队、警察和平民的死亡人数创下了新高。
American and Afghan officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were discussing operations that are largely classified, said that American forces were playing direct combat roles in many of the raids and were not simply going along as advisers.
谈论此事的两国官员均不愿具名，因为这些行动基本上都属于机密。他们表示，在很多次袭击中，美国部队会直接参与战斗，而不仅仅是担任顾问。
“We’ve been clear that counterterrorism operations remain a part of our mission in Afghanistan,’’ Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, said on Thursday. “We’ve also been clear that we will conduct these operations in partnership with the Afghans to eliminate threats to our forces, our partners and our interests.”
“我们已经明确表示，反恐行动仍然是我们阿富汗使命的组成部分”，五角大楼发言人、海军少将约翰·柯比(Rear Adm. John Kirby)本周四说。“我们也一直明确表示，我们将与阿富汗合作，开展这些行动，以消除我们的军队、我们的合作伙伴，以及我们的利益面临的威胁。”
The raids appear to have targeted a broad cross section of Islamist militants. They have hit both Qaeda and Taliban operatives, going beyond the narrow counterterrorism mission that Obama administration officials had said would continue after the formal end of American-led combat operations last December.
奥巴马政府官员曾表示，美国领导的作战行动在去年12月正式结束之后，将继续执行有限的反恐任务。不过，这些突袭行动似乎在针对大面积的伊斯兰主义武装分子，打击对象同时涵盖了基地组织和塔利班的活动，并未止步于奥巴马政府的官员所说的那种狭义的反恐。
The tempo of operations is “unprecedented for this time of year” — that is, the traditional winter lull in fighting, an American military official said. No official would provide exact figures, because the data is classified. The Afghan and American governments have also sought to keep quiet the surge in night raids to avoid political fallout in both countries.
通常冬季无战事，但美国军方的一名官员表示，这些行动的节奏“在以前的这个季节里不曾有过”。官方不愿提供确切数字，因为此类数据属于机密。阿富汗和美国政府也对夜间突袭激增一事闭口不谈，以免在这两个国家引发政治后果。
“It’s all in the shadows now,” said a former Afghan security official who informally advises his former colleagues. “The official war for the Americans — the part of the war that you could go see — that’s over. It’s only the secret war that’s still going. But it’s going hard.”
“目前这一切都是在暗中进行的，”一名阿富汗的前安全官员表示。此人眼下在给以前的同事提供私下的咨询意见。“对于美国人来说，正式的战争——外界可以看到的那部分——已经结束了。仍在持续的只有秘密战争，而且打得很激烈。”
American and Afghan officials said the intelligence gleaned from the October mission was not the sole factor behind the uptick in raids. Around the same time that Afghan and American intelligence analysts were poring over the seized laptop and files, Afghanistan’s newly elected president, Ashraf Ghani, signed a security agreement with the United States and eased restrictions on night raids by American and Afghan forces that had been put in place by his predecessor, Hamid Karzai. Mr. Karzai had also sought to limit the use of American air power, even to support Afghan forces.
美阿两国的官员透露，去年10月那次任务搜集到的情报并不是导致突袭行动激增的唯一因素。在阿富汗和美国的情报分析师研究缴获的笔记本电脑和文件的同时，阿富汗新当选的总统阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)与美国签署了一项安全协议，放宽了前任总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)对两国部队的夜袭行动的限制。卡尔扎伊还曾寻求限制美国动用空中力量，即使是为了向阿富汗部队提供空中支援。
Mr. Karzai’s open antipathy to the United States helped push the Obama administration toward ordering a more rapid drawdown than American military commanders had wanted. And while the timetable for the withdrawal of most American troops by the end of 2016 remains in place, the improving relations under Mr. Ghani pushed the Obama administration to grant American commanders greater latitude in military operations, American and Afghan officials said.
卡尔扎伊对美国公开表示反感，这推动了奥巴马政府下令，以快于美国军方指挥层期望的步伐从阿富汗撤军。虽然这个时间表仍然有效，即大部分美国军队将在2016年年底前撤出，但两国官员称，加尼上任后，双方关系得到改善，因而推动了奥巴马政府授予美军指挥官在军事行动上更大的灵活性。
American commanders welcomed the new freedom. Afghan forces were overwhelmed fighting the Taliban in some parts of the country during last year’s fighting season, which typically runs from the spring into the autumn. Many Western officials fear that this year’s fighting season could be even worse for the Afghans without the air power and logistical support from the American-led coalition, and without joint Afghan-American night raids to keep up pressure on insurgent commanders.
对这种新近获得的灵活度，美军指挥层表示欢迎。战斗季节一般从春季持续到秋季。在去年的这个时段里，阿富汗部队在该国一些地区打击塔利班时遭受了重挫。很多西方官员担心，在今年的战斗季节，如果失去了美国领导的盟军提供的空中支援和后勤支持，而阿富汗和美国也不再开展联合夜袭来对叛乱头目施加压力，那么阿富汗人的处境可能就会更加艰难。
Afghan and American officials said the raids over the past few months had been carried out by the elite commandos of the National Directorate of Security, Afghanistan’s main spy agency, and members of a mix of American military Special Operations units, such as Navy SEALs and Army Rangers, and paramilitary officers from the C.I.A.
两国官员透露，执行过去几个月的袭击行动的部门包括：阿富汗的主要情报机构阿富汗国家安全局(National Directorate of Security)下属的精英突击队，海豹突击队和陆军游骑兵团等美军特种作战单位的混编部队，以及中央情报局(CIA)的准军事人员。
The National Directorate of Security claimed credit for killing Mr. Kuwaiti, the man in the mountain village in October, and for seizing the laptop. The operation occurred in the Nazyan district of eastern Afghanistan, which borders the Khyber tribal agency in Pakistan, an area thick with militants from Afghanistan, Pakistan, the Middle East and other parts of the world.
阿富汗国家安全局宣称，是他们去年10月在山村结果了科威提的性命，并缴获了那台笔记本电脑。该行动发生在阿富汗东部的纳兹扬地区。那里毗邻巴基斯坦部族地带的开伯尔特区，有很多来自阿富汗、巴基斯坦、中东和世界其他一些地区的武装分子。
The N.D.S., as the agency is known, offered few other details about the operation, and it declined to comment on the raids that have occurred since. The C.I.A., which trains, supplies and bankrolls the Afghan spy agency, also declined to comment.
阿富汗国家安全局并未提供多少有关那次行动的其他细节，而且拒绝评论之后开展的突袭行动。为这家阿富汗情报机构训练人员、提供装备和资金的美国中央情报局也拒绝对此置评。
Mr. Kuwaiti himself may have unintentionally provided some clues about the nature of the intelligence in a eulogy he wrote three years ago for another senior Qaeda operative, who was killed in an American drone strike in Pakistan.
关于这批情报信息的性质，科威提本人写的一篇悼词可能在无意中透露了一些线索。三年前，美国的无人机空袭导致另一名基地组织高级行动人员在巴基斯坦丧生，科威提随后为他写了这篇悼词。
Writing in Vanguards of Khorasan, a Qaeda magazine, Mr. Kuwaiti said he had been a “student” and “comrade” of Atiyah Abd al-Rahman, who, before his death, was described as Al Qaeda’s general manager, according to The Long War Journal, a website that tracks militants.
在基地组织杂志《呼罗珊先锋》(Vanguards of Khorasan)刊登的这篇文章中，科威第称，自己曾是阿提耶·阿布德·拉赫曼(Atiyah Abd al-Rahman)的“门徒”和“同志”。据追踪激进分子状况的网站“漫长战争纪事”(The Long War Journal)描述，拉赫曼生前被称为基地组织的一名主要头目。