The tax break wars are heating up again, as New Jersey aggressively pushes a revamped program to encourage businesses to stay or move within its borders.
新泽西州正在力促一项旨在鼓励商业机构留在或迁入其界内的经改进项目，随之而来的，免税大战将再度升温。
The retooled tax credit is called Grow New Jersey, a consolidation and expansion of several previous programs. Some companies, even those already in the state, might be eligible for as much as $300 million in tax credits per project.
这项重新调整后的税收减免政策，叫做“成长新泽西”(Grow New Jersey)，是对之前几次调整措施的加强和扩充。一些公司——甚至包括那些已经设立于新泽西州的，可能有资格得到每个项目多达3亿美元（约合人民币18.2亿元）的税收减免。
The state’s neighbors, particularly New York and Pennsylvania, are not taking the competition lightly, their officials say, particularly at a delicate time when certain regions are still struggling to climb out of the recession. Both states have been watching New Jersey’s moves, and seem to gearing up for a combative response.
新泽西的邻居们——尤其是纽约州和宾夕法尼亚州，并没有轻视这次竞争，它们的官员这样说，特别是在一些地区还在努力摆脱经济萧条这样一个微妙的时刻。这两个州已经看到了新泽西的举动，似乎也将加速应战。
So while New York City recently saw a major tax credit program expire that could put it at a disadvantage, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has been promising that he wants to push a new set of incentives for businesses — especially in beleaguered upstate New York — to try to stave off business flight.
所以，当纽约市最近发现一项主要税收减免措施的到期，可能使其处于不利地位的时候，州长安德鲁·M·科莫(Andrew M. Cuomo)便做出承诺，想要推行一套新的商业机构激励措施——尤其是在受到围困的纽约州北部地区，以此努力延缓公司的外逃。
Pennsylvania has been successful at wooing e-commerce companies and their enormous distribution centers to the state, although it too could face tougher challenges given how high the stakes are for economic investment.
宾夕法尼亚州则已成功吸引了一些电子商务公司，以及这些公司庞大的物流中心。尽管考虑到经济投资的风险之高，该州也可能面临更为严峻的挑战。
“States are facing a Darwinian struggle for jobs, and New Jersey is using these incentives aggressively, and they are using them frequently,” said Joseph J. Seneca, a professor at the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University.
“各州都在为就业岗位，面临一场达尔文式的竞争，所以新泽西在不遗余力地运用这些激励措施，而且用得非常频繁。”罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)的爱德华·J·布斯坦规划与公共政策学院(Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy)的一位教授约瑟夫·J·塞内加(Joseph J. Seneca)说。
The New Jersey tax credits allow any company to apply for the 10-year credits, regardless of its size or type, as long as it is considering leaving the state or moving there and meets certain other capital investment and job requirements. The amount of the credit depends on location, the size of the work force, wages and other criteria. For example, a company relocating from another state that would move to a depressed urban area and would hire hundreds of people could earn as much as $300 million in credits.
新泽西的税收减免政策，允许任何公司去申请这项为期十年的减税措施，无论公司大小或类型，只要该公司正在考虑离开或搬入该州，并且符合其它一些特定的投资及提供就业的要求就可以。减免的额度则取决于该公司的位置、员工规模、薪酬水平及其它评价标准。比如说，一家公司从别州搬来，并会落脚到较为萧条的城区，还将雇佣几百名员工，那么这家公司就将获得多达3亿美元（约合人民币18.2亿元）的减税额度。
The New Jersey program also seems to encourage an exchange of tax credits among companies, by permitting a company with little corporate income tax liability to sell some of its credits at a slight discount to another company.
新泽西的政策似乎也鼓励公司之间交易税收减免额度，方法是允许一家无需缴纳企业所得税的公司，将其部分免税额度打一点折扣，出售给另一家公司。
“This is really substantial — it isn’t a tax credit you can lose, because you can sell them, so that is very appealing,” said Dan Breen, an executive vice president for business and economic incentives at Jones Lang LaSalle. “I have had some clients that are now looking at New Jersey that might not have otherwise, because of the difference in the incentive environment.”
“这真的是一大笔钱——它是一笔你不能弃之不理的税收减免，因为你能把额度卖掉，所以是非常有吸引力的，”仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)负责商业与经济刺激领域的行政副总裁丹·布林(Dan Breen)说，“因为新泽西州与众不同的激励型商业环境，我已有一些客户正在该州考察了。若非如此，他们可能不会考虑这里。”
The state Legislature approved the Grow New Jersey program in September, and in December it announced its first round of recipients: in exchange for nearly $93 million in tax credits, five companies agreed to retain 925 full-time employees in New Jersey and create 900 new jobs for a period of up to 15 years. The companies are Valeant Pharmaceuticals, the IDT Corporation, VF Sportswear, WebiMax and Marathon Data.
该州议会于去年9月通过了“成长新泽西”计划，并于12月宣布了第一轮接收者名单：为了获取将近9300万美元（约合人民币5.6亿元）的税收减免额度，五家公司同意保留新泽西州的925名全职雇员，并保证在大约15年内，再提供900个新的工作岗位。这些公司分别是：威朗制药(Valeant Pharmaceuticals)、通讯技术公司IDT、VF运动服饰、互联网营销公司WebiMax及软件开发公司马拉松数据(Marathon Data)。
For years and years, tax breaks for major companies have been heavily criticized as corporate welfare by government reform groups, which argue that extremely well-off businesses are rarely penalized with a loss of credits if they fail to produce jobs. And fiscal conservatives often warn that the loss of millions of dollars in tax revenue year over year hampers a state from shoring up funds for the next possible downturn.
然而多年来，给大公司提供的税收减免政策一直被政府内的改革小组诟病为公司福利，这些小组成员指出，那些实力雄厚的公司就算没有提供工作岗位，也很少被减少免税额度，以示惩罚。而财政保守主义者常常警告，年复一年上百万美元的税收流失，阻碍了一州为下一次可能发生的经济衰退储备资金。
But the lure of bigger and broader protections keeps companies jockeying for the incentives. And the states have tried to work in provisions to keep the companies in check. In the case of Grow New Jersey, for example, recipients must certify they have created or maintained the specified number of jobs, and if they fail to meet the requirements, the state could withhold the credits or even require the companies to reimburse them.
但是更大、更广的保护措施，仍吸引着各家公司千方百计地争取享受激励。而各州正试图订立条款，来保证公司行为符合规范。比如在“成长新泽西”的例子中，接受津贴的公司必须证明，他们已经创造或维持了一定的就业量，如果他们没有达到要求，该州可能会不再提供减税，甚至会要求这些公司赔偿。
“Our business development team has been fielding numerous calls by potential applicants,” Tim Lizura, the president and chief operating officer of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority, which oversees Grow New Jersey, said in an email. He said the next set of potential recipients would be recommended after the authority’s monthly meeting in mid-January.
“我们的业务发展团队已经接到无数通潜在申请人打来的电话，”新泽西州经济发展局(New Jersey Economic Development Authority)的主席和首席运营官蒂姆·利祖拉(Tim Lizura)在一封邮件中说。该机构负责监管“成长新泽西”政策。他说，在该局一月中旬的月度例会召开后，将推选出下一组潜在接收者的名单。
And the state keeps burnishing its welcome mat, real estate experts say. Robert C. Kossar, the market director for New Jersey and Long Island operations for the brokerage firm Jones Lang LaSalle Americas, praised New Jersey’s lieutenant governor, Kim Guadagno, for her accessibility.
一些房地产专家说，该州还一直保持着光鲜靓丽的欢迎姿态。仲量联行美洲分部(Jones Lang LaSalle Americas)负责新泽西和长岛运营的市场主管罗伯特·C·科萨(Robert C. Kossar)，赞许了新泽西州副州长金姆·瓜达尼奥(Kim Guadagno)平易近人的态度。
“Kim Guadagno gives everyone her cellphone — she’s made it her business over the last three years to be a conduit for the business community,” he said.
“金姆·瓜达尼奥给每个人都留她的手机号码——过去三年来，她已经把这项工作当成了自己的事业，扮演了一条商业引水渠的角色。”他说。
States that typically compete with New Jersey are taking notice. For its part, New York offers two main incentive programs: Excelsior, which provides tax credits to companies in certain industries like high tech and biotech that create jobs, and Start-Up NY, a new program that is creating tax-free zones within university campuses for new or expanding companies that are generating new jobs.
新泽西州的主要竞争对手对此都有所察觉。就纽约州而言，该州提供了两种主要激励措施：一种称为“精益求精”(Excelsior)，也即为某类行业中的公司提供税收减免，诸如能够创造就业的高科技和生物科技业；还有一种叫做“纽约创业”(Sart-Up NY)，这项全新的计划，正在为可以创造就业的新公司或正在扩容的公司，在大学校园内建立免税区。
“Increasingly, states compete for investments from companies around the country and the globe,” said Kenneth Adams, the president and chief executive of Empire State Development and the commissioner of the New York State Department of Economic Development. “New York has been making changes to its programs and it isn’t a surprise to us that New Jersey is making changes to their programs. But frankly, we are really focused on what we have to offer here in New York.”
“各州为吸引来自全国和全球的投资，竞争正日趋激烈，”肯尼斯·亚当斯(Kenneth Adams)说。他是纽约州经济发展厅(Empire State Development)的主席兼首席执行官，也是纽约州政府的经济发展部(New York State Department of Economic Development)的官员。“纽约州已经对本州的激励措施做出调整，新泽西州也在调整他们的措施，对此我们并不觉得意外。但说实话，我们真正集中精力研究的是，我们需要在纽约州提供什么。”
The New Jersey push comes at a tricky time for New York City. Last year, a tax credit program that had been in place for years for businesses in parts of Manhattan and the other boroughs expired, catching many by surprise. “Companies had assumed they would get it and now they are in limbo, and that sends the wrong signal to the business community,” said Romel C. Cañete, an executive managing director at Newmark Grubb Knight Frank.
对纽约市而言，新泽西州的项目推进时机选得颇为巧妙。去年，一项面向曼哈顿内外部分地区的公司已然实施多年的税收减免计划宣告过期，令很多人都大吃了一惊。“很多公司一直自认为能够得到这项政策优惠，现在却都陷入两难。这给商业界发出了一个错误信号。”商业地产咨询公司Newmark Grubb Knight Frank的常务董事罗梅尔·C·卡涅特(Romel C. Cañete)说。
Businesses are also warily eyeing the new mayor, Bill de Blasio, who made income inequality a chief message of his campaign. “It is safe to say the new mayor doesn’t seem to be overly aggressive in creating incentives for corporations,” said Timothy R. Greiner, an executive managing director at Newmark Grubb Knight Frank. On the other hand, he said, Gov. Chris Christie “has his arms wide open, telling anyone who will listen to bring their companies to New Jersey.”
各行各业都在密切关注着新当选的纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)，他把收入不平等问题作为自己的主要竞选口号。“可以肯定地说，这位新市长似乎不会在为企业创造激励政策的事情上太过激进，”Newmark Grubb Knight Frank的另一位常务董事蒂莫西·R·格雷纳(Timonthy R. Greiner)说。另一方面，他说，（新泽西州）州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)“已经张开怀抱，劝说所有愿意听他一言的人，把公司搬到新泽西来。”
Still, some companies choose to remain in New York even if costs may be lower elsewhere. And there are instances where the city and state have provided lucrative incentives, such as last year, when subsidies worth $127 million were given to Fresh Direct to move to the Bronx rather than relocate to New Jersey. The company is building a 500,000-square-foot warehouse there that is expected to open in 2016.
然而，即便在别处或许能把成本降得更低，仍有一些公司选择留在纽约州。也有一些例子证明，纽约市和纽约州已经提供了一些对公司而言很合算的激励机制。比如去年，Fresh Direct公司因搬到布朗克斯区(Bronx)而不是转移到新泽西州，获得了当时价值1.27亿美元（约合人民币7.7亿元）的津贴。该公司正在那里修建一栋50万平方英尺（约4.6万平方米）的仓库，预计于2016年投入使用。
Pennsylvania could also see the loss of some business as a result of the new incentives. Aside from Amazon, which announced plans in 2012 to build two large warehouses in New Jersey, Pennsylvania has mostly cornered the market for e-commerce logistics and distribution centers. These warehouses must be close to FedEx and United Parcel Service hubs, as well as to population centers, and Pennsylvania has been a popular option because land there is relatively cheap and the state offers numerous incentives.
宾夕法尼亚州可能也会因这项新的激励措施，遭遇一些商业机构的流失。除了2012年宣布计划在新泽西州建立两座大仓库的亚马逊公司(Amazon)外，宾夕法尼亚州还重点关注了电子商务物流与快递中心的市场。这些仓库必须靠近联邦快递(FedEx)和联合包裹服务公司(United Parcel Service)的集散地，以及人口集中地带，而宾夕法尼亚州是个呼声很高的选择，因为那里的土地相对便宜，而且该州提供了大量激励措施。
Now, however, “this incentive program really tips the scale,” Mr. Kossar said. “It isn’t rocket science to figure out that we are closer to New York City, and so as long as we have the land available, it’s clear that New Jersey will get a disproportionate amount of these projects.” He is working on a number of large retail distribution centers in New Jersey that he expects will be announced in the next several months.
可是现在，“这项激励计划真的起了决定性的作用，”仲量联行的科萨说，“要搞清我们离纽约市距离更近并不难，而且只要我们有现成的土地，新泽西州显然将会获得这些项目中的一大部分。”他正在新泽西州筹备若干个大型零售物流中心，他预计项目将在几个月后公布。
For its part, Pennsylvania says it is ready to compete. Speaking of Gov. Tom Corbett, Steve Kratz, the director of communications for the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development, said, “We recognize that New Jersey is upping their game, but Governor Corbett is also very focused on private sector job growth.”
就宾夕法尼亚州本身而言，该州声称已经做好参与竞争的准备。谈及其州长汤姆·科比特(Tom Corbett)，宾夕法尼亚州社区与经济发展部(Department of Community and Economic Development)的公关总监史蒂夫·克拉茨(Steve Kratz)说，“我们发现新泽西州正在升级这场游戏，但科比特州长也非常关注私营领域工作岗位的增长。”