CHARLESTON, S.C. — The man suspected of killing nine people at a prayer meeting at a historic black church in this city's downtown area was caught Thursday some 200 miles away in North Carolina, local and federal officials said.
南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿——一名涉嫌谋杀九人的男子本周四在200多英里外的北卡罗来纳州被抓获，地方和联邦官员说。这起枪杀案发生在查尔斯顿市中心，一所具有历史意义的黑人教堂举行的祈祷会上。
After an intensive, 14-hour manhunt for the man who carried out a massacre that officials are calling racially motivated, Dylann Storm Roof, 21, “was arrested in Shelby, North Carolina, during a traffic stop” shortly after 11 a.m., said Greg Mullen, the Charleston police chief.
官员称这起屠杀是种族因素驱使的。经过14小时的密集搜捕，在上午11点之后不久，21岁的迪伦·斯多姆·鲁夫(Dylann Storm Roof)“在北卡罗来纳州谢尔比的一个查车点被捕”，查尔斯顿警察局长格雷格·马伦(Greg Mullen)说。
The police here say Roof, who is white, is suspected of being the gunman who walked into the prayer meeting Wednesday night, sat down with black parishioners for nearly an hour, and then opened fire.
鲁夫是一名白人。这里的警察说，怀疑他就是周三晚上走进黑人教区居民的祷告会，坐了近一个小时，然后开枪的那名枪手。
The Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, the FBI, and the U.S. Attorney's Office for South Carolina have opened a hate crime investigation into the shooting, which left six women and three men dead, and Mullen has called it a hate crime.
司法部(Justice Department)的民权司、联邦调查局(FBI)和南卡罗来纳州的联邦检察官办公室对枪击案启动了仇恨犯罪调查，这起枪击事件导致六名女性和三名男性遇难。马伦已经声明这是仇恨犯罪。
President Barack Obama, speaking at the White House, said, “To say that our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families and their community doesn't say enough to convey the heartache and the sadness and the anger that we feel.”
奥巴马总统在白宫表示，“说我们牵系着他们及他们的家人和社区，并为他们祈祷，并不足以表达我们的心痛、悲伤和愤怒之情。”
Roof's Facebook profile picture shows him wearing a jacket decorated with the flags of two former white supremacist regimes: in apartheid-era South Africa, and in Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe.
在Facebook主页的照片上，鲁夫穿的夹克上装饰着两面旗帜，是两个曾经的白人至上政权的国旗。分别是种族隔离时期的南非，以及罗得西亚，即现在的津巴布韦。
David A. Thomas, the special agent in charge of FBI's bureau in Columbia, said Roof, who is from the Columbia, South Carolina, area, had not been someone who was being watched by the agency.
FBI哥伦比亚市分局的特工戴维·A·托马斯(David A. Thomas)表示，来自南卡罗来纳州哥伦比亚地区的鲁夫此前并未受到FBI关注。
The gunman walked into the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church after 8 p.m., and the first call to police came shortly after 9 p.m. Among the dead was the Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, pastor of the church, who was also a state senator.
枪手在晚上8点以后，走进了以马内利非裔卫理圣公会教堂(Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church)。9点刚过，警方接到第一个报警电话。死者包括该教堂的牧师克莱门塔·C·平克尼(Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney)。他同时还是一名州参议员。
Sylvia Johnson, a cousin of Pinckney's, said in an interview with NBC News that a survivor of the shooting had told her the gunman reloaded five times. The survivor said the gunman had entered the church and asked for the pastor. Then he sat next to Pinckney during the Bible study before opening fire.
平克尼的表亲西尔维娅·约翰逊(Sylvia Johnson)在接受NBC新闻的采访时表示，枪击事件的一名幸存者对她说，枪手重新给枪装了五次子弹。该幸存者称，枪手走进教堂并要求见牧师。他先是在学习圣经期间坐在平克尼身边，之后才开火。
“I have to do it,” the gunman was quoted as saying. “You rape our women and you're taking over our country. And you have to go.” 
据称枪手曾说，“我不得不这么做。你们强奸我们的女同胞，并且正在接掌我们的国家。你们必须死。”
The church, known here as “Mother Emanuel,” houses the oldest black congregation south of Baltimore, according to the National Park Service, and its website calls it the oldest A.M.E. church in the South. The Park Service lists the church’s Gothic Revival building, which dates from 1891, as a historically significant building.
在这里，该教堂又被称作以马内利圣母教堂(Mother Emanuel)。据美国国家公园管理局(National Park Service)介绍，该教堂是巴尔的摩以南，最古老的黑人教堂。公园管理局的网站称其是南方最古老的非裔卫理圣公会教堂。该教堂的哥特复兴式建筑始建于1891年，公园管理局称该建筑具有重要的历史意义。
“This was a church that was burned to the ground because its worshipers worked to end slavery,” Mr. Obama said.
“因为信众致力于结束奴隶制，这座教堂曾被烧得一干二净，”奥巴马说。
The congregation was formed by black members of Charleston’s Methodist Episcopal Church who broke away “over disputed burial ground,” according to the website of the National Park Service.
公园管理局的网站上写道，这座教堂的教众原本是查尔斯顿卫理圣公会教堂(Methodist Episcopal Church)的黑人成员，因为“墓地纠纷”脱离了那座教堂。
In 1822, one of the church’s founders, Denmark Vesey, tried to foment a slave rebellion in Charleston, the church’s website says. The plot was foiled by the authorities and 35 people were executed, including Mr. Vesey.
以马内利教堂的创建人之一丹麦克·维塞(Denmark Vesey)在1822年谋划发动查尔斯顿奴隶起义，教堂的网站说。当局挫败了这一计划，有35人被处以死刑，维塞也在其中。
The church is “symbolically recognized by everyone as a thorn in the side of the white body,” said the writer Edward Ball, whose books include “Slaves in the Family,” which recounts his own ancestors’ history as slave owners.
“所有人都能意识到，这座教堂就像从侧面插进白人肌体的一根刺，”作家爱德华·博尔(Edward Ball)说。他的作品包括《家中的奴隶》(Slaves in the Family)，书中讲述了他的祖上当奴隶主的历史。
“It’s at the very center of town, at the very center of white society,” he said. “This church is much more than a place where people sing gospel. It’s tethered to the deep unconscious of the black community.”
“它就在这座城镇的最中心，在白人社区的最中心，”他说。“这座教堂不仅仅是人们唱赞美诗的地方，它还牵动着黑人社区潜意识的深处。”