PHILADELPHIA — After decades of rising childhood obesity rates, several American cities are reporting their first declines.
费城——在肥胖儿童比例经历了几十年的上升之后，美国多个城市第一次出现了肥胖比例下降的报告。
The trend has emerged in big cities like New York and Los Angeles, as well as smaller places like Anchorage, Alaska, and Kearney, Neb. The state of Mississippi has also registered a drop, but only among white students.
这一趋势相继出现在像纽约和洛杉矶这样的大城市以及像阿拉斯加安克雷奇市以及内布拉斯加州科尔尼市这样规模稍小的地区。密西西比州也出现了下降，但仅限于白人学生。
“It’s been nothing but bad news for 30 years, so the fact that we have any good news is a big story,” said Dr. Thomas Farley, the health commissioner in New York City, which reported a 5.5 percent decline in the number of obese schoolchildren from 2007 to 2011.
纽约市卫生专员托马斯·法利博士(Dr. Thomas Farley)说，“30年来一直都是负面消息，因此任何好消息对我们来说都是个大新闻。”纽约市公布，2007-2011年，肥胖学生的数量下降了5.5%。
The drops are small, just 5 percent here in Philadelphia and 3 percent in Los Angeles. But experts say they are significant because they offer the first indication that the obesity epidemic, one of the nation’s most intractable health problems, may actually be reversing course.
虽然下降幅度并不大，费城只有5%，洛杉矶只有3%。但是专家们说这些数字意义重大，因为它们第一次预示了肥胖的流行——美国最为棘手的健康问题之一——可能会出现逆转。
The first dips — noted in a September report by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation — were so surprising that some researchers did not believe them.
罗伯特·伍德·约翰森基金会(Robert Wood Johnson Foundation)在2012年9月发表的报告中，指出肥胖趋势首次下降，然而这一趋势令人如此吃惊，以至于一些研究者表示难以置信。
Deanna M. Hoelscher, a researcher at the University of Texas, who in 2010 recorded one of the earliest declines — among mostly poor Hispanic fourth graders in the El Paso area — did a double-take. “We reran the numbers a couple of times,” she said. “I kept saying, ‘Will you please check that again for me?’ ”
德州大学研究员蒂娜·M·豪切尔(Deanna M. Hoelscher)是2010年最早发现这一下降趋势的人之一，她于厄尔巴索地区四年级学生中发现了这一现象，这些学生多为家境贫寒的西班牙裔。之后她又核查了一次。她说，“我们把数据核对了数遍。我一直在说，‘能帮我再检查一遍吗？’”
Researchers say they are not sure what is behind the declines. They may be an early sign of a national shift that is visible only in cities that routinely measure the height and weight of schoolchildren. The decline in Los Angeles, for instance, was for fifth, seventh and ninth graders — the grades that are measured each year — between 2005 and 2010. Nor is it clear whether the drops have more to do with fewer obese children entering school or currently enrolled children losing weight. But researchers note that declines occurred in cities that have had obesity reduction policies in place for a number of years.
研究人员说他们对下降的原因并不清楚。这些数字可能只是美国肥胖问题好转的早期征兆，而且这一现象只在那些定期测量学生身高和体重的大城市中才能得以体现。例如，洛杉矶的下降仅存在于2005-2010年的五年级、七年级和九年级学生当中——即那些每年都测量体重的年级。原因也有可能是上学的肥胖儿童数量减少或目前新招学生的体重有所下降。但是研究人员注意到，那些出现下降现象的城市已推行减肥政策多年。
Though obesity is now part of the national conversation, with aggressive advertising campaigns in major cities and a push by Michelle Obama, many scientists doubt that anti-obesity programs actually work. Individual efforts like one-time exercise programs have rarely produced results. Researchers say that it will take a broad set of policies applied systematically to effectively reverse the trend, a conclusion underscored by an Institute of Medicine report released in May.
肥胖目前是全美的热门话题，大城市中减肥广告活动十分活跃，米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)对此也是支持有加。尽管如此，很多科学家对反肥胖项目的效果表示怀疑。像一次性运动项目这样的个人努力收效甚微。2012年5月，研究人员在一家医学院报告的结论中指出，当局需要出台一整套政策来系统、有效地扭转这一局面。
Philadelphia has undertaken a broad assault on childhood obesity for years. Sugary drinks like sweetened iced tea, fruit punch and sports drinks started to disappear from school vending machines in 2004. A year later, new snack guidelines set calorie and fat limits, which reduced the size of snack foods like potato chips to single servings. By 2009, deep fryers were gone from cafeterias and whole milk had been replaced by one percent and skim.
多年来，费城开展了一系列对抗儿童肥胖的行动。从2004年开始，学校的自动贩卖机停止售卖诸如甜冰茶、水果宾治和运动饮料这样的含糖饮料。一年之后，新零食规定对卡路里和脂肪做出了限制，这一规定降低了单份餐食中类似于土豆条这样的零食的分量。到了2009年，学校餐馆严禁贩卖油炸食品，而且全脂牛奶也被1%脂肪含量的部分脱脂牛奶和脱脂牛奶所取代。
Change has been slow. Schools made money on sugary drinks, and some set up rogue drink machines that had to be hunted down. Deep fat fryers, favored by school administrators who did not want to lose popular items like French fries, were unplugged only after Wayne T. Grasela, the head of food services for the school district, stopped buying oil to fill them.
变化是缓慢的。学校曾靠含糖饮品赚钱，而且一些学校仍设有贩卖违规饮料的自动贩卖机。学校管理者并不希望取缔像法式炸薯条这样受欢迎的油炸食品，因此，直到区食品服务负责人维恩·T·格雷色拉(Wayne T. Grasela)停止为这些学校供应食用油之后，油炸食品才从学校消失。
But the message seems to be getting through, even if acting on it is daunting. Josh Monserrat, an eighth grader at John Welsh Elementary, uses words like “carbs,” and “portion size.” He is part of a student group that promotes healthy eating. He has even dressed as an orange to try to get other children to eat better. Still, he struggles with his own weight. He is 5-foot-3 but weighed nearly 200 pounds at his last doctor’s visit.
然而这一讯息似乎已经深入人心，虽然付诸行动是痛苦的。约翰·威尔士学校(John Welsh Elementary)八年级学生乔什·蒙萨拉特(Josh Monserrat)会使用类似于“碳水化合物”和“食物份量”这样的词语。他是提倡健康饮食学生团体的一员。他甚至装扮成橙子来劝说其他的孩子注意饮食健康。然而，令他为难的是他自己的体重。他身高5.3英尺（约合1.62米），但是上次看医生时所测量的体重接近200磅（约合91公斤）。
“I was thinking, ‘Wow, I’m obese for my age,’ ” said Josh, who is 13. “I set a goal for myself to lose 50 pounds.”
13岁的乔什说，“我在想，‘天哪，在我这个年龄，这个体重属于超重’。我为自己树立了目标，要减掉50磅。”
Nationally, about 17 percent of children under 20 are obese, or about 12.5 million people, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The C.D.C. defines childhood obesity as a body mass index at or above the 95th percentile in comparison to children of the same age and sex in the center's growth charts, a reference population based on children in the United States primarily from the 1960s and 70s.
美国疾病控制和预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的数据显示，在美国，20岁以下的孩子中有17%都患有肥胖症，也就是1250万人。该中心将儿童肥胖定义为，对于相同年龄和性别的儿童来说，体重指数大于等于95%的儿童为肥胖。肥胖率在1980年翻了两番，虽然在最近几年呈趋平态势，但仍处于历史最高点。公众健康专家们警告说，这会带来长期的健康风险。
Obese children are more likely to be obese as adults, creating a higher risk of heart disease and stroke. The American Cancer Society says that being overweight or obese is the culprit in one of seven cancer deaths. Diabetes in children is up by a fifth since 2000, according to federal data.
肥胖儿童在成年后患肥胖症的几率更大，而且患心脏病和中风的风险也更高。美国癌症学会(American Cancer Society)表示，癌症致死的病例当中，有七分之一都源于超重或肥胖。联邦政府数据显示，自2000年以来，儿童糖尿病患者的数量上升了20%。
“I’m deeply worried about it,” said Francis S. Collins, the director of the National Institutes of Health, who added that obesity is “almost certain to result in a serious downturn in longevity based on the risks people are taking on.”
美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)主任弗朗西斯·S·科林斯(Francis S. Collins)说，“我对此感到非常担忧。”他还指出，肥胖“所带来的健康风险已基本被确认会导致寿命的大幅缩短”。
Obesity affects poor children disproportionately. Twenty percent of low-income children are obese, compared with about 12 percent of children from more affluent families, according to the C.D.C. Among girls, race is also an important factor. About 25 percent of black girls are obese, compared with 15 percent of white girls.
家境贫寒的儿童也不同程度地受到了肥胖症的侵袭。美国疾控中心数据显示，20%低收入家庭的儿童都患有肥胖症，而较富裕家庭儿童患肥胖症的约为12%。在女孩当中，种族也是一个重要因素。25%的黑人女孩达到肥胖标准，而白人女孩为15%。
Some experts note that the current declines, concentrated among higher income, mostly white populations, are still not benefiting many minority children. For example, when New York City measured children in kindergarten through eighth grade from 2007 to 2011, the number of white children who were obese dropped by 12.5 percent, while the number of obese black children dropped by 1.9 percent.
一些专家意识到，目前的这种体重下降集中在高收入、以白人为主的人群，而很多少数族裔儿童并未出现这一情况。例如，纽约市在2007-2011年测量幼儿园至八年级学生体重时发现，白人肥胖儿童的数量下降了12.5%，而黑人肥胖儿童的数量下降了1.9%。
But Philadelphia, which has the biggest share of residents living in poverty of the nation’s 10 largest cities, stands out because its decline was most pronounced among minorities. Obesity among 120,000 public school students measured between 2006 and 2010 declined by 8 percent among black boys and by 7 percent among Hispanic girls, compared with a 0.8 percent decline for white girls and a 6.8 percent decline for white boys.
尽管费城在美国的十大城市中，贫困居民比例排名位居榜首，但此次调查中该市脱颖而出，因为体重下降主要集中在少数族裔。经测量，2006-2010年期间，12万名公立学校学生当中，黑人肥胖男孩数量下降了8%，西班牙裔肥胖女孩数量下降了7%，而作为对比，白人女孩下降了0.8%，白人男孩下降了6.8%。
“The needle is actually moving,” said Gary D. Foster, director of the Center for Obesity Research and Education at Temple University.
天普大学(Temple University)肥胖症研究教育中心(Center for Obesity Research and Education)主任格里·D·福斯特(Gary D. Foster)说，“秤上的指针终于开始动了。”
He first noticed the change while conducting a study of middle school students. Even children who made up the control group that did not take part in anti-obesity measures had a weight drop of nearly 4 percent, compared with 5.5 percent for those who did.
在对中学生开展调查时，他首先注意到了这一变化。即便是那些不采取减肥措施的对照组儿童的体重也下降了近4%，而采取减肥措施的儿童下降了5.5%。
Here at William H. Ziegler Elementary in Northeast Philadelphia, where most students qualify for free or reduced-price lunch, the day begins with a nutrition tip over the loudspeaker. Teachers give out colorful erasers and stickers instead of Tootsie Rolls. Fund-raising events feature fruit smoothies instead of chocolate.
在费城东北部的威廉姆·泽格勒小学(William H. Ziegler Elementary)，大部分学生都可以享用免费或折扣价午餐，学校每天在上课之前都会通过广播宣读一条营养窍门。教师们分发彩色橡皮和贴纸，而不是杜丝巧克力糖。筹资活动中用的是水果冰沙而不是巧克力。
Some students had never seen broccoli or cauliflower, so Jill Dogmanits, a sixth-grade teacher, started taste tests to acquaint students with those vegetables and healthy snacks like hummus, fresh pineapple and whole-wheat bagels.
由于一些学生从来没有见过西兰花或花椰菜，因此六年级教师吉尔·道格曼尼茨(Jill Dogmanits)开始通过组织试吃，来让学生们熟悉这些蔬菜以及诸如鹰嘴豆泥、新鲜菠萝和全麦百吉饼等健康零食。
But school is only part of the day. Children buy an average of 350 calories worth of snacks in corner stores every day, according to a study by Dr. Foster’s center at Temple University. About 640 corner stores are now part of a program of stocking healthier food, according to the Food Trust, a nonprofit group that runs it.
但是学校只是学生每天生活的一部分。天普大学研究中心福斯特博士的研究显示，孩子们每天会在街头小店会购买平均350卡路里热量的零食。非营利性机构食品信托基金会(Food Trust)称，目前，约有640家街头小店已加入了由该基金会运作的提供健康食品计划。
“Parents tell their kids, ‘Take this money and go buy a snack,’ ” said Josh, as children streamed into a store across from his school where crayon-colored sugar drinks called Hugs sell for 25 cents and generic soda is 40 cents.
乔什说，“家长们对孩子说，‘这些钱给你，去买零食吃’。”而孩子们就会蜂拥至学校对面的商店购买零食，那里，名叫Hugs的五颜六色的糖水卖25美分，普通苏打水卖40美分。
Dr. Donald F. Schwarz, a pediatrician who is the city’s health commissioner, said: “I think we are beginning to turn the tide with the many things that have gone on now for a decade.”
该市卫生专员、儿科医生唐纳尔德·F·施瓦茨博士(Dr. Donald F. Schwarz)说：“我认为局势开始扭转，到目前为止，很多事情已经持续变化近10年了。”
It is too early to tell whether the trend will hold.
这一趋势是否能够继续还难以下定论。
“I’d like to see another year of measurement before I go out and party over this,” said Mary Currier, Mississippi’s state health officer.
密西西比州卫生官员玛丽·柯瑞尔(Mary Currier)说，“在我行将欢呼之前，还想再看看明年的测量数据。”
And some public health experts say that without broader policy actions like a soda tax, which Philadelphia tried but failed to pass in 2010 and 2011, deeper change will be difficult. Still, new data from Philadelphia — from more than 20,000 children in first through sixth grades — show a further 2.5 percent obesity decline from 2011 to 2012, Dr. Foster said.
一些公共卫生专家们表示，如果没有诸如汽水税（费城曾尝试推广，但2010年和2011年均没有获得通过）这类更为宽泛的政策举措，很难发生深层次的变化。福斯特博士说，尽管如此，来自费城的新数据——调查涵盖超过两万名一年级至六年级儿童——显示2011-2012年期间肥胖儿童的数量进一步下降了2.5%。
Josh lost weight this summer, exercising outside with his stepfather, an Army reservist. But now that it’s cold he has gained some back. Still, he believes he can influence others. His 2-year-old cousin now asks for bananas instead of chips at the corner store. Josh takes full credit.
去年夏天，通过与身为陆军预备役军人的继父一道在户外活动，乔什减轻了体重。但是现在天气变冷了，他的体重又增加了一些。尽管如此，他相信自己可以感染其他人。如今，他两岁的堂弟会上街头小店去买香蕉而不是薯条，这全是乔什的功劳。