For much of the past five years readers of the political and economic news were left in little doubt that budget deficits and rising debt were the most important issue facing America. Serious people constantly issued dire warnings that the United States risked turning into another Greece any day now. President Obama appointed a special, bipartisan commission to propose solutions to the alleged fiscal crisis, and spent much of his first term trying to negotiate a Grand Bargain on the budget with Republicans.
过去5年的很长时间里，关注政治及经济新闻的人士几乎被完全说服，预算赤字与不断攀升的债务是美国所面临的最严重问题。严肃人士不停地发出可怕警告，说美国随时都有可能变为另一个希腊。奥巴马总统任命了一个跨党派的专门委员会，以提出解决所谓财政危机的方案。在首任期内，他还花费大量时间，试图在预算问题上与共和党人谈判达成大妥协(Grand Bargain)。
That bargain never happened, because Republicans refused to consider any deal that raised taxes. Nonetheless, debt and deficits have faded from the news. And there’s a good reason for that disappearing act: The whole thing turns out to have been a false alarm.
由于共和党人拒绝考虑任何包含增税的方案，这项大妥协的解决办法最终并没有形成。尽管如此，债务及赤字问题还是从新闻中淡出了。有个很好的理由可以解释这种现象：原来整个事情从一开始就是虚惊一场。
I’m not sure whether most readers realize just how thoroughly the great fiscal panic has fizzled — and the deficit scolds are, of course, still scolding. They’re even trying to spin the latest long-term projections from the Congressional Budget Office — which are distinctly non-alarming — as somehow a confirmation of their earlier scare tactics. So this seems like a good time to offer an update on the debt disaster that wasn’t.
大多数读者是否意识到，这种财政大恐慌已经偃旗息鼓了，我拿不准——当然，斥责财政赤字的人士还在斥责。他们甚至试图歪曲国会预算办公室最新发布的长期预测——预测本身显然没有令人警觉的地方——把它当做对他们早先的恐吓战术的一种肯定。因此，现在似乎有必要报告一下这场并不存在的债务灾难的最新进展。
About those projections: The budget office predicts that this year’s federal deficit will be just 2.8 percent of G.D.P., down from 9.8 percent in 2009. It’s true that the fact that we’re still running a deficit means federal debt in dollar terms continues to grow — but the economy is growing too, so the budget office expects the crucial ratio of debt to G.D.P. to remain more or less flat for the next decade.
我们先谈谈这些预测数据：预算办公室预计，本年度的联邦赤字仅为GDP的2.8%，而2009年的数字则是9.8%。没错，依然存在预算赤字的事实意味着，以美元计的联邦债务将继续增长——但经济也在增长，因此，预算办公室预计未来10年内，债务与GDP之比这一关键数据将大体持平。
Things are expected to deteriorate after that, mainly because of the impact of an aging population on Medicare and Social Security. But there has been a dramatic slowdown in the growth of health care costs, which used to play a big role in frightening budget scenarios. As a result, despite aging, debt in 2039 — a quarter-century from now! — is projected to be no higher, as a percentage of G.D.P., than the debt America had at the end of World War II, or that Britain had for much of the 20th century. Oh, and the budget office now expects interest rates to remain fairly low, not much higher than the economy’s rate of growth. This in turn weakens, indeed almost eliminates, the risk of a debt spiral, in which the cost of servicing debt drives debt even higher.
由于人口老龄化会影响到联邦医疗保险(Medicare)及社会安全福利(Social Security)，所以预计10年后情况会出现恶化。但医疗成本的增长已大幅放慢，而医疗成本在可怕的预算状况中占很大份额。因此，尽管存在人口老龄问题，但预计2029年——四分之一个世纪之后！——债务相对GDP的比例将不会高于二战后美国的债务水平，也不会高于20世纪大多数年份里英国的水平。注意，现在预算办公室预期利率将保持在较低水平，不会比经济增长率高出多少。这种情况反过来会削弱，实际上几乎消除了债务螺旋式上升的风险——在那种上升中，债务利息的成本会驱动债务进一步增加。
Still, rising debt isn’t good. So what would it take to avoid any rise in the debt ratio? Surprisingly little. The budget office estimates that stabilizing the ratio of debt to G.D.P. at its current level would require spending cuts and/or tax hikes of 1.2 percent of G.D.P. if we started now, or 1.5 percent of G.D.P. if we waited until 2020. Politically, that would be hard given total Republican opposition to anything a Democratic president might propose, but in economic terms it would be no big deal, and wouldn’t require any fundamental change in our major social programs.
不过，债务增长终究不是什么好事。该采取什么样的措施防止呢？简单的难以置信。据预算办公室测算，要让债务之于GDP的比例稳定在目前水平上，就需要削减开支，同时/或者从现在起增加相当于GDP的1.2%的税收。如果要等到2020年再实施增税，则需要增加相当于GDP的1.5%的税收。鉴于共和党会一起反对民主党人总统提议的任何东西，从政治上讲，实施增税是十分困难的，但从经济上讲，倒不是一件很大的事情，并不需要对我们的主要社会福利计划做任何根本性修改。
In short, the debt apocalypse has been called off.
一句话，债务末日警报已经解除。
Wait — what about the risk of a crisis of confidence? There have been many warnings that such a crisis was imminent, some of them coupled with surprisingly frank admissions of disappointment that it hadn’t happened yet. For example, Alan Greenspan warned of the “Greece analogy,” and declared that it was “regrettable” that U.S. interest rates and inflation hadn’t yet soared.
等等——信心危机风险又是怎么回事？许多人一直警告说这种危机迫在眉睫，其中有些警告还伴随着让人意外的坦率，表示对危机没有发生感到失望。例如，艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)曾用“希腊类比”警告过我们，同时称美国利率与通货膨胀没有大幅飙升“令人遗憾”。
But that was more than four years ago, and both inflation and interest rates remain low. Maybe the United States, which among other things borrows in its own currency and therefore can’t run out of cash, isn’t much like Greece after all.
然而，这已经是四年多以前的事情了，目前的通货膨胀和利率依然保持在较低水平。也许其中一个原因是美国能以本国货币得到贷款，不会出现现金短缺，因此跟希腊的情况存在着根本的区别。