A female student at an elite prep school in New Hampshire who accused a male senior of rape in 2014 — only for him to be convicted of misdemeanor charges — revealed her identity on Tuesday in an interview with NBC, saying she hoped to support other victims by discussing the difficulties she has faced, including being shunned when she returned to the school.
新罕布什尔州一所精英预科学校的一名女学生曾在2014年指控一名高年级男生对她实施强奸，结果对方只被判以轻罪。周二，她在接受NBC电视台采访时透露了身份，表示她希望能通过谈论自己曾经遭遇的困难——包括在返回学校之后遭受冷遇——给其他受害者以支持。
“I want everyone to know that I am not afraid or ashamed anymore, and I never should have been,” the teenager, Chessy Prout, who was 15 at the time of the assault at St. Paul’s School in Concord, said on “Today.”
“我想让所有人都知道，我不再感到害怕，也不觉得丢人，之前就不该那样，”这位名为切西·普劳特(Chessy Prout)的少女在《今天》(Today)节目上说道。在康科德的圣保罗中学(St. Paul’s School)遭遇强奸时，她只有15岁。
“It’s been two years now since the whole ordeal, and I feel ready to stand up and own what happened to me and make sure other people, other girls and boys, don’t need to be ashamed, either,” she said with her parents at her side.
“那段可怕的经历已经过去两年，我感觉自己现在可以站起来，承认自身的遭遇，同时也想让其他人，其他女孩和男孩知道，你们不需要感到羞耻，”她坐在父母旁边讲道。
Prout said she was attacked in a mechanical room at the school in May 2014. In the trial that ended last August, a senior, Owen Labrie, was cleared of felony sexual assault charges but convicted of misdemeanor charges, including having sex with someone below the age of consent.
普劳特表示，她是于2014年5月在学校的一间机械室内遭遇性侵的。在去年8月结束的审判中，高年级男生欧文·拉布里(Owen Labrie)没有被判以性侵重罪，而是被判几项轻罪，包括与未达同意年龄的少女发生性关系。
Labrie, now 20, was sentenced to a year in prison and had to register as a sex offender in New Hampshire. He was freed on $15,000 bail pending his appeal, during which he was ordered to comply with a 5 p.m. curfew at his mother’s home in Vermont.
现年20岁的拉布里被判处一年监禁，必须在新罕布什尔州以性犯罪者的身份进行登记。在缴纳1.5万美元保释金之后，他被释放。在等待上诉期间，法院要求他住在他母亲位于佛蒙特州的家里，而且在下午5点之后不准外出。
The case cast a spotlight on a culture of secret rites and sexual conquest at St. Paul’s, including the “senior salute,” in which older students tried to engage younger ones in intimate acts: kissing, touching or more. The trial included details about the tradition in which a key to the mechanical room on campus was passed around by senior classmates.
这个案件使人们了解到圣保罗中学的秘密仪式和性征服文化，包括“向高年级学生致敬”，即高年级学生试图让更小的学生与他们发生亲密行为：亲吻、抚摸，乃至更多。审判中提到了该传统的一些细节，其中一条是学校机械室的钥匙在高年级学生之间传来传去。
Labrie said the encounter had been consensual and had stopped short of sex.
拉布里表示，他们的行为是两厢情愿的，而且没有真正发生性关系。
In the interview on Tuesday, Prout described the difficulties of testifying. “It was something that was necessary,” she said, “although it was scary.”
周二接受采访时，普劳德描述了作证的困难。“它是有必要的，”她说，“尽管过程很可怕。”