Hours before leaving on summer recess, Congress on Thursday hit a seemingly intractable impasse on government spending, increasing the prospects of a government shutdown in the fall and adding new urgency to fiscal negotiations between the White House and a bloc of Senate Republicans.
就在夏季休会前若干小时，本周四（8月1日——编注）美国国会在政府开支问题上陷入了一场看来无人能解的僵局，这增大了今年秋天政府关停的前景，更令白宫与参议院的一个共和党议员小组间的财政谈判愈发紧迫。
The group of eight lawmakers headed to the White House to find a way forward after Senate Republicans filibustered a housing and transportation spending measure, saying it violated a spending deal struck two years ago. The blockade of the Senate bill came after House Republican leaders on Wednesday gave up on a more austere version of the bill when moderate Republicans balked and said the cuts in the House measure were too deep.
这八名议员前往白宫试图寻求解决之道。此前，参议院共和党人以违反两年前就开支达成的妥协为由，采取拖延战术(filibuster)阻碍了一项住房和交通运输支出提案。在参议院议案受阻之前，周三，在温和派共和党议员表示反对，称众议院的方案缩减过度之后，众议院共和党领导层搁置了该提案开支削减更严厉的版本。
For more than two and a half hours, the group met with the White House chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, senior budget officials and, for nearly an hour, with President Obama. They emerged to say they would meet again at least once during the August recess.
在超过两个半小时的时间里，八名议员会见了白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)和数名预算高级官员，此后又和奥巴马总统进行了长约一小时的会晤。会谈结束后，他们称在8月国会休会期还将进行至少一次会谈。
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said the president pressed the group to aim for a deficit-reduction deal that would be larger than simply replacing the across-the-board spending cuts known as sequester with savings elsewhere in the budget.
田纳西州共和党参议员鲍勃·柯克(Bob Corker)称，总统敦促这群议员推动一项更有意义的赤字削减方案，不仅限于通过在预算中的其他领域节约开支，来取代被称为“自动减赤”(sequester)的全盘开支削减举措。
“Each time we meet there’s a little more clarity,” Mr. Corker said. But he warned, “Nobody should get overly excited.”
“我们每次会谈都能让立场更清晰，”柯克说。不过，他也提醒道，“任何人都不应对此过于激动。”
The collapse of the spending measures on both sides of the Capitol left leaders of both parties pointing fingers and a resolution up in the air until the House and Senate return after a five-week break.
开支法案在国会参众两院都以失败告终，令两党领袖互相推卸指责，而决议仍悬而无果，需待五周后两院复会才能继续审议。
“If we can’t recognize the reality of those failures, then we’ve got big problems,” said Senator Johnny Isakson of Georgia, the unofficial leader of the Senate Republican negotiators.
“如果我们连此番失败的现实都不能承认，那就出大问题了，”参议院共和党人谈判小组的非正式领袖，乔治亚州参议员约翰尼·伊萨克松(Johnny Isakson)说道。
Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader, was pessimistic about avoiding another fiscal crisis in the fall.
众议院民主党领袖，马里兰州众议员斯坦尼·H·霍耶尔(Steny H. Hoyer)对今秋避免又一场财政危机的前景表示悲观。
“It’s a very difficult, dark path ahead, dark to the extent that I can’t tell you what the alternative is,” he said.
他说，“前方道路坎坷而黑暗，如此黑暗以至于我说不出还有什么别的选择余地。”
Congress appeared at a dead end, unable to pass spending bills at the levels mandated by the across-the-board spending cuts, but unwilling to retreat to higher numbers set by the 2011 Budget Control Act before those cuts went into force.
国会看来走进了死胡同，既无法通过满足“全盘削减”标准要求的支出法案，又不愿放松要求，回到削减方案生效前由2011年《预算控制法案》(Budget Control Act)设立的更大支出额度。
No one suggested a breakthrough was imminent, though Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the new White House budget director, said the rift within the Republican Party could be an opening for compromise. Large sections of the government will shut down on Oct. 1 unless Congress can find accommodation on new spending measures, and lawmakers will have little time to do so when they return on Sept. 9.
无人认为事态能很快发生突破，不过白宫新任预算主任西尔维亚·马修斯·伯维尔(Sylvia Mathews Burwell)谈道，共和党内部的分化可能成为寻求妥协的突破口。如果国会不能达成妥协通过新的开支法案，10月1日政府的大部分部门就要关停；而议员9月9日才会回到国会，留给他们的时间已经不多了。
“We’ve got a $16 trillion debt,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader. “We’re spending hundreds of billions of dollars a year we don’t have. This is how you get Greece. This is how you get Detroit. So we can’t do this.”
“我们背负着16万亿美元的债务，”参议院共和党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)说，“每年我们都要花掉数以千亿美元计的钱，而这钱又不是我们自己的。希腊就是这样倒下的，底特律就是这样破产的。我们不能这样做。”
Speaker John A. Boehner said he had no intention of retreating from the spending levels set by the sequester, and insisted that in September, Republican leaders would find the votes to pass spending bills at that level. “I’m sure our August recess will have our members in a better mood when they come back,” he said.
众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)表示，他无意就自动减赤设置的支出限额做出让步。他坚称，共和党领导人物能够在9月谋得足够的赞成票，通过符合该额度的开支法案。他说，“我敢肯定，经过8月休会期，议员回来时情绪会更积极。”
Other Republicans said the struggle would only get harder. Facing another rebellion, the House Appropriations Committee on Wednesday set aside the formal drafting of an interior and environmental program spending bill that would have cut the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget to $5.5 billion from $8.3 billion, slashed clean-water grants by 83 percent, and cut the national endowments for the arts and humanities by 49 percent.
另一些共和党人认为斗争只会更加激烈。因为党内又发生抵抗，众议院拨款委员会(House Appropriations Committee)周三搁置了一项国内和环境项目开支议案的正式起草。该议案拟将环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)预算从83亿美元缩减为55亿，将水净化拨款削减83%，同时将国家艺术人文拨款减少49%。
The House Appropriations Committee chairman, Representative Harold Rogers of Kentucky, released a remarkable broadside against his own leaders.
众议院拨款委员会主席，肯塔基州众议员哈罗德·罗杰斯(Harold Rogers)对本党的领导人物发动了令人称奇的炮轰。
“The House has declined to proceed on the implementation of the very budget it adopted just three months ago,” he wrote. “Thus, I believe that the House has made its choice: sequestration — and its unrealistic and ill-conceived discretionary cuts — must be brought to an end.”
“众议院拒绝继续执行它三个月前刚通过的预算案，”他写道。“因此，我认为众议院已经做出抉择：自动减赤——及其脱离现实、谋划失策的机动减支方案——必须叫停。”
The White House-Senate negotiations center on restoring domestic and military spending at least to the limits set by the Budget Control Act, and shifting those savings to entitlement programs and other “mandatory” programs not covered by the appropriations bills. Such a trade-off would be hard for the White House; Mr. Obama and senior advisers have said that he would not support reductions from the health-related entitlement programs, Medicare and Medicaid, unless Republicans agree to raise additional revenues.
白宫和参议员间的谈判，核心在于将国内和军事开支至少恢复《预算控制法案》所规定的水平，并将这些节约的经费转移到福利项目和其它不受拨款法令管辖的“强制性”项目。这种取舍对白宫来说十分艰难；奥巴马总统及其高级幕僚已经表示，他不会支持从联邦医疗保险(Medicare)和联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)这些医疗福利项目中缩减经费，除非共和党同意政府筹集额外收入。
The administration’s chief goal is to end the arbitrary sequester cuts and restore annual spending — other than for Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security — at least to levels agreed to in a July 2011 debt-reduction compromise.
奥巴马政府的主要目标是停止自动减赤中任意的开支削减，并将年度支出水平至少恢复到2011年7月就削减负债达成的妥协成果所确立的水平，但联邦医疗保险和联邦医疗补助不计算在内。
In particular, Mr. Obama wants to make room for spending about $86 billion for one-time job-creation initiatives involving public works projects, community college programs and existing manufacturing-innovation centers.
其中，奥巴马尤其希望腾出约860亿美元的经费，投入到一次性就业促进项目中，这些项目涉及公共工程、社区学院和现有的制造创新中心。
That would include about $75 billion for infrastructure, covering road and bridge repairs, seed money for a public-private infrastructure bank and school construction bonds; about $8 billion for community college programs that prepare students for careers with local businesses, and about $3 billion for additional “hubs” for advanced manufacturing.
这些经费中包括，用于基础设施的750亿美元，覆盖了公路和桥梁维修、一家公私联营基础设施银行的种子资金，以及学校建设债券等方面；80亿美元将投入社区大学，以帮助学生在当地企业就业，另有30亿美元将用于新增先进制造业“集成区”。
Two deadlines loom that could force a resolution. Because Congress will again fail to enact its spending bills on time, the government will run out of operating money Oct. 1 unless lawmakers approve a stopgap “continuing resolution” — or C.R. — to keep the money flowing. Then in November, Congress must raise the government’s borrowing limit.
两大关键时间期限近在眼前，这可能逼出一个方案来。因为国会又将无法按时通过支出法案，政府将于10月1日耗尽运转经费，除非议员能通过一项临时性的“持续决议”（continuing resolution，简称CR）来维持资金流动。接下来在11月，国会必须要提高政府的借款上限。
“If you look at the C.R. and the debt ceiling, they’re challenges but they’re also deadlines, and in that sense, opportunities,” said Senator John Hoeven, Republican of North Dakota and a member of the group. “We’re going to have to solve it at some point, right?”
“请注意CR和借款上限，它们是挑战，同时也是有时限的；从这个意义上说，它们都是机遇。”北达科他州共和党参议员，八人小组成员约翰·霍文(John Hoeven)说。“到某个时刻，我们就非得把它解决掉不可，对吧？”