DONETSK, Ukraine — As the government in Kiev moved to reassert control over pro-Russian protesters across eastern Ukraine, the United States and NATO issued stern warnings to Moscow about further intervention in the country’s affairs, amid continuing fears of an eventual Russian incursion.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——基辅政府采取行动，加强对乌克兰东部亲俄罗斯抗议者的控制之际，仍在担忧俄罗斯最终会入侵乌克兰的美国和北约(NATO)向莫斯科发出了严厉警告，不要进一步干涉乌克兰的事务。
Secretary of State John Kerry accused the Kremlin of fomenting the unrest, calling the protests the work of saboteurs whose machinations were as “ham-handed as they are transparent.” Speaking to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, he added: “No one should be fooled — and believe me, no one is fooled — by what could potentially be a contrived pretext for military intervention just as we saw in Crimea. It is clear that Russian special forces and agents have been the catalysts behind the chaos of the last 24 hours.” The secretary general of NATO, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said Russia would be making a “historic mistake” by going into Ukraine, and he urged the Kremlin to “step back.” At a news conference in Paris, he said any such actions “would have grave consequences for our relationship with Russia and would further isolate Russia internationally.”
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)谴责克里姆林宫煽动骚乱，称抗议是颠覆分子发动的，他们的阴谋“既笨拙又明显”。在参议院外交关系委员会(Senate Foreign Relations Committee)发言时，克里补充说：“这可能是军事入侵的人为借口，就像我们在克里米亚看到的那样，谁也不该受这种把戏的愚弄——相信我，实际上也没人受它的愚弄。显然，俄罗斯的特种部队和特工是过去24小时的混乱背后的催化剂。”北约秘书长安诺斯·福格·拉斯穆森(Anders Fogh Rasmussen)则表示，如果进军乌克兰，俄罗斯就会犯下“历史性的错误”。他敦促克里姆林宫“退后”。他在巴黎的一次新闻发布会上说，任何此类行动“都将对我们与俄罗斯的关系造成严重后果，并将使俄罗斯进一步遭到国际社会的孤立”。
In Moscow, the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, denied on Tuesday the accusations of Russian meddling in Ukraine. He said Russia would seek multinational talks on the Ukrainian political crisis that could involve the United States, the European Union and “all the political forces in Ukraine,” which should include representatives of the southeastern region.
周二在莫斯科，俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)否认了关于俄罗斯干涉乌克兰事务的指责。他说，俄罗斯将寻求就乌克兰政治危机举行多国谈判，参与方可能有美国、欧盟和“乌克兰所有的政治力量”，后者应该包括乌克兰东南部的代表。
But none of that was soothing nerves rattled by days of protests here, orchestrated or otherwise. With pro-Russian demonstrators having been expelled from a government building in the eastern city of Kharkiv and the government determined to end the protests across the south and east, separatist protesters here in the east’s biggest urban center reinforced barricades outside the occupied regional administration building and vowed to stand firm, setting up a possibly violent showdown over control of the city.
然而，前述表态都没能舒缓顿涅茨克数天抗议引发的紧张情绪，无论这些抗议是否出于统一筹划。亲俄罗斯示威者已被赶出了东部城市哈尔科夫的一栋政府大楼，政府决心制止南部和东部地区的抗议活动，在此情况下，这个东部最大城市中心的分裂主义抗议者加固了自己占领的地区行政办公大楼外的路障，并且誓言要坚守阵地，有可能导致为争夺该市控制权的暴力对决。
The successful operation in Kharkiv was announced by Ukraine’s acting interior minister, Arsen Avakov, who had traveled to the city to supervise the action. He wrote on Facebook that the building was retaken “without firing a shot, grenades, or other special weapons,” and that the troops were part of a broader redeployment in the region to contain unrest that Ukraine has accused Russia of orchestrating.
乌克兰代理内政部长阿尔森·阿瓦科夫(Arsen Avakov)前往哈尔科夫督查相关行动，其间宣布该市的行动颇为成功。他在Facebook上写道，“没有动用炮弹、手榴弹或其他特种武器”便重新夺回了那栋大楼，同时，参加行动的部队只是该地区更广泛重新部署的一部分，这样的部署意在遏制骚乱。乌克兰谴责俄罗斯策动了骚乱。
The Russian Foreign Ministry issued a stern statement in response to the use of the Interior Ministry troops, accusing the Ukrainian government of embedding nationalist militants from the group Right Sector as well as private American mercenaries from a company called Greystone in its forces in the east. The Russian statement said the American contractors were being disguised as members of a Ukrainian military unit called Falcon.
为了回应乌克兰动用内政部军队的举措，俄罗斯外交部(Russian Foreign Ministry)发表了一份严厉的声明，谴责乌克兰政府在东部军队中安插了来自“正义部”(Right Sector)组织的民族主义激进分子，以及来自“灰石”(Greystone)公司的私人美国雇佣兵。俄罗斯的声明称，美国雇佣兵被伪装成了乌克兰“猎鹰”(Falcon)的部队的成员。
Academi, a private American security company affiliated with Greystone, issued a statement in mid-March saying its employees were not working in Ukraine, after similar allegations surfaced in the Russian news media. The company did not immediately respond to the Foreign Ministry’s statement on Tuesday.
3月中旬，俄罗斯新闻媒体上出现类似指控后，隶属于灰石公司的美国私营安保公司阿可德米(Academi)曾发表声明称，公司雇员并未在乌克兰工作。该公司没有立即回应俄罗斯外交部周二发表的声明。
The ministry, which has repeatedly denounced the government in Kiev as the illegitimate product of a coup, warned against the use of military force in eastern Ukraine. “We call immediately for the halt of any military preparations, which risk the outbreak of civil war,” it said in its statement.
俄罗斯外交部多次谴责基辅政府是军事政变的非法产物，并警告乌克兰不要在东乌克兰使用武力。该部在声明中称，“我们呼吁立即停止一切军事准备工作，因为它有可能引发内战。”
Pro-Russian demonstrators seized government buildings Sunday evening in several eastern cities, including Kharkiv, Donetsk and Luhansk, posing a thorny challenge for the authorities in Kiev, who wrested power from the former president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, using similar tactics. Russian armed forces are deployed along the border nearby, and the Kremlin has warned that it is prepared to intervene again in Ukraine to protect the many ethnic Russians who live there, as it had in Crimea in the south.
周日夜间，哈尔科夫(Kharkiv)、顿涅茨克(Donetsk)和卢甘斯克(Luhansk)等几座乌克兰东部城市的亲俄罗斯示威者占领了政府大楼，给基辅官方带来了严峻的挑战。目前的基辅政府也曾使用类似策略夺取维克托·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的权力。俄罗斯武装部队被部署到了边境附近，克里姆林宫警告称，为了保护东部居住的许多俄罗斯族民众，俄罗斯准备采用应对南部克里米亚局势的方法，再次干预乌克兰局势。
“Comrades, beware of provocateurs and get ready to defend yourselves from the fascists,” a middle-aged man in an orange hard hat screamed through a bullhorn, echoing Russia’s line that Ukraine fell to neo-Nazi extremists after the flight of president Viktor F. Yanukovych in late February.
“同志们，请小心破坏分子，准备抵御法西斯主义者的侵犯，”一名头戴桔色安全帽的中年男子用扩音器高喊。前总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇于2月末逃亡后，俄罗斯说乌克兰落入了新纳粹极端主义分子之手，这名中年男子的说法与之如出一辙。
Bands of pro-Russia youths, however, mimicked the tactics of the pro-Europe protest movement that led to Mr. Yanukovch’s departure. As rumors spread of an impending crackdown, they formed self-defense teams armed with clubs and metal rods, dug up paving stones to hurl at troops in the event of a government attack and piled rubber tires and sandbags around the entrance of the occupied multistory regional administration building.
然而，大量亲俄罗斯的年轻人却效仿了最终导致亚努科维奇逃亡的亲欧抗议活动所使用的策略。官方将立即进行镇压的流言传来之后，他们组成了以棍棒和金属棒为武器的自卫队，挖开铺路的石块，以便在政府发动攻击时向军队投掷，还在他们占领的多楼层地区行政楼的入口周围堆放了大量橡胶轮胎和沙袋。
“This is our land, Russian land,” said Oleg Shifkemenko, waving a flag emblazoned with the word Rus, an ancient Slavic people celebrated by Russian nationalists. “Russians built the roads here, the railways, the factories. We built everything, and it is ours, forever.” Despite his Ukrainian name, he described himself as a “proud Russian.”
“这是我们的土地，俄罗斯的土地，”奥列格·希夫克门科(Oleg Shifkemenko)挥舞着印有“Rus”字样的旗子，“Rus”是俄罗斯民族主义者尊崇的一个古代斯拉夫民族。“俄罗斯人建造了这里的公路、铁路和工厂。一切都是我们建造的，它是我们的，永远都是。”他虽然有个乌克兰名字，但却自称为“自豪的俄罗斯人”。