In more than a dozen classified rulings, the nation’s surveillance court has created a secret body of law giving the National Security Agency the power to amass vast collections of data on Americans while pursuing not only terrorism suspects, but also people possibly involved in nuclear proliferation, espionage and cyberattacks, officials say.
有官员称，美国的监控法庭以十多项机密判决，建立了一个秘密的法律体系，赋予国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）大量收集美国人数据的权力，这种数据收集的追查对象不仅限于恐怖主义嫌疑人，还包括涉嫌参与核扩散、谍报和恐怖袭击的人。
The rulings, some nearly 100 pages long, reveal that the court has taken on a much more expansive role by regularly assessing broad constitutional questions and establishing important judicial precedents, with almost no public scrutiny, according to current and former officials familiar with the court’s classified decisions.
据熟悉其秘密判决的现任和前任官员透露，这些判决有的长达将近100页，显示出法庭经常就宽泛的宪法问题给出评价，树立重要判例，从而担负起了一个更加广泛的角色，且几乎不受公众监督。
The 11-member Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, known as the FISA court, was once mostly focused on approving case-by-case wiretapping orders. But since major changes in legislation and greater judicial oversight of intelligence operations were instituted six years ago, it has quietly become almost a parallel Supreme Court, serving as the ultimate arbiter on surveillance issues and delivering opinions that will most likely shape intelligence practices for years to come, the officials said.
由11名成员组成的外国情报监视法庭（Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court，简称FISA）过去的职能主要是逐案审批监听令。但官员们透露，自六年前法律做出大幅修改、要求对情报机构进行更多的司法监管以来，这个法庭已经悄无声息地变成了一家几乎与最高法院(Supreme Court)平起平坐的法庭，对监控问题做出最终裁断，并下达极有可能影响未来情报工作的裁决意见。
Last month, a former National Security Agency contractor, Edward J. Snowden, leaked a classified order from the FISA court, which authorized the collection of all phone-tracing data from Verizon business customers. But the court’s still-secret decisions go far beyond any single surveillance order, the officials said.
上个月，前NSA承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露了FISA法庭的一份机密判令，授权对威瑞森(Verizon)企业客户的所有电话跟踪数据进行收集。但官员们表示，法庭作出的那些至今仍在保密中的裁决，远不止只是一纸监控判令那么简单。
“We’ve seen a growing body of law from the court,” a former intelligence official said. “What you have is a common law that develops where the court is issuing orders involving particular types of surveillance, particular types of targets.”
“我们看到该法庭构建了一个越来越庞大的法律体系，”一名前情报官员表示。“这样就发展出了一部普通法，法庭会针对某种特定的监控形式、特定的目标类型发布判令。”
In one of the court’s most important decisions, the judges have expanded the use in terrorism cases of a legal principle known as the “special needs” doctrine and carved out an exception to the Fourth Amendment’s requirement of a warrant for searches and seizures, the officials said.
在法庭最重要的几项判决中，官员们透露法官在其中一项判决里把所谓“特殊需要”(special needs)原则在恐怖主义案件中的应用进行了扩大，并开创了美国宪法第四修正案(Fourth Amendment)的一个例外。该修正案规定要有搜查令才能进行搜查和没收。
The special needs doctrine was originally established in 1989 by the Supreme Court in a ruling allowing the drug testing of railway workers, finding that a minimal intrusion on privacy was justified by the government’s need to combat an overriding public danger. Applying that concept more broadly, the FISA judges have ruled that the N.S.A.’s collection and examination of Americans’ communications data to track possible terrorists does not run afoul of the Fourth Amendment, the officials said.
特殊需要原则最初是在1989年由最高法院树立的。在当时的判决中，最高法院裁定允许对铁路工人进行药检，最高法院认为政府为了防范重大的公共危险，对隐私权作出最小程度的侵犯是合理的。而官员们透露，FISA法官对这个原则做了更宽泛的运用，裁决NSA收集和检查美国人的通讯数据是用于追踪可能的恐怖分子的，并不违反第四修正案。
That legal interpretation is significant, several outside legal experts said, because it uses a relatively narrow area of the law — used to justify airport screenings, for instance, or drunken-driving checkpoints — and applies it much more broadly, in secret, to the wholesale collection of communications in pursuit of terrorism suspects. “It seems like a legal stretch,” William C. Banks, a national security law expert at Syracuse University, said in response to a description of the decision. “It’s another way of tilting the scales toward the government in its access to all this data.”
多位外界的法律专家表示，这项司法解释意义重大，因为它利用了一个适用范围相对狭窄的法律——原本是为机场安检或酒驾检查等场合提供法律依据——将其秘密应用到更广泛的领域，涵盖了为追查恐怖主义嫌疑人而大批量搜集通讯信息的行为。在听取了对这项判决的描述后，雪城大学(Syracuse University)国家安全法专家威廉·C·班克斯(William C. Banks)的反应是，“这似乎是对法律的一种曲解，”他还说，“在数据获取的问题上，它让天平向政府一侧又倾斜了一些。”
While President Obama and his intelligence advisers have spoken of the surveillance programs leaked by Mr. Snowden mainly in terms of combating terrorism, the court has also interpreted the law in ways that extend into other national security concerns. In one recent case, for instance, intelligence officials were able to get access to an e-mail attachment sent within the United States because they said they were worried that the e-mail contained a schematic drawing or a diagram possibly connected to Iran’s nuclear program.
对于斯诺登揭露的监控项目，奥巴马总统和他的情报顾问们主要是从打击恐怖主义的角度展开评说的。但这个法庭对法条的解释还延伸到了别的国家安全问题。例如，在最近的一则案例中，情报官员得以获取一份在美国境内发送的电子邮件附件，因为他们表示，他们担心这份电子邮件中含有一份可能与伊朗核计划有关的规划草图或图表。
In the past, that probably would have required a court warrant because the suspicious e-mail involved American communications. In this case, however, a little-noticed provision in a 2008 law, expanding the definition of “foreign intelligence” to include “weapons of mass destruction,” was used to justify access to the message.
在过去，这样做可能需要一份法庭的搜查令，因为这封可疑的电子邮件涉及美国人的通讯往来。然而在此案中，一部2008年颁布的法律中的一项极少受人注意的条款，成了获取消息的法律依据。该条款将“外国情报”的定义作出了扩展，把“大规模杀伤性武器”也列入其中。
The court’s use of that language has allowed intelligence officials to get wider access to data and communications that they believe may be linked to nuclear proliferation, the officials said. They added that other secret findings had eased access to data on espionage, cyberattacks and other possible threats connected to foreign intelligence.
官员们表示，法庭运用这样的语言，使情报官员能获取他们认为可能与核扩散相关的、范围更广的数据和通讯内容。他们还说，这些秘密做出的裁定，为获取和谍报、网络攻击及其他涉及外国情报的可能威胁有关的数据提供了便利。
“The definition of ‘foreign intelligence’ is very broad,” another former intelligence official said in an interview. “An espionage target, a nuclear proliferation target, that all falls within FISA, and the court has signed off on that.”
“‘外国情报’的定义非常宽泛，”另一位前情报官员在采访中表示，“间谍目标、核扩散目标，都在FISA的职能范围内，而FISA法庭也批准了这样的行动。”
The official, like a half-dozen other current and former national security officials, discussed the court’s rulings and the general trends they have established on the condition of anonymity because they are classified. Judges on the FISA court refused to comment on the scope and volume of their decisions.
和其他六、七位前任和现任的国家安全官员一样，这位官员在讨论FISA法庭的裁定、以及这些裁定在监听工作上确立的总体趋势时要求匿名，因为这些信息都属于机密。FISA法庭的法官拒绝就他们裁决的范围和数量发表评论。
Unlike the Supreme Court, the FISA court hears from only one side in the case — the government — and its findings are almost never made public. A Court of Review is empaneled to hear appeals, but that is known to have happened only a handful of times in the court’s history, and no case has ever been taken to the Supreme Court. In fact, it is not clear in all circumstances whether Internet and phone companies that are turning over the reams of data even have the right to appear before the FISA court.
和美国最高法院不同的是，FISA法庭在审理时只听取一方的说辞——政府，它的判决结果也几乎从不公开。接到申诉时会组成一个复核法庭来听诉，但据我们所知，这在FISA的历史上也仅发生过几次。事实上，交出了大量数据的互联网和电信公司在任何情况下是否有上诉的权利都不得而知。
Created by Congress in 1978 as a check against wiretapping abuses by the government, the court meets in a secure, nondescript room in the federal courthouse in Washington. All of the current 11 judges, who serve seven-year terms, were appointed to the special court by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., and 10 of them were nominated to the bench by Republican presidents. Most hail from districts outside the capital and come in rotating shifts to hear surveillance applications; a single judge signs most surveillance orders, which totaled nearly 1,800 last year. None of the requests from the intelligence agencies was denied, according to the court.
国会于1978年组建FISA，作为对政府滥用监听权力的一种制约。FISA的成员会在华盛顿联邦法院一间安全的、无明显特征的房间里会面。这个特殊法庭的法官以七年为一个任期，所有11位现任法官都是由首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)任命的，其中十位由共和党主席提名。他们中多数来自华盛顿以外的司法辖区，轮流听取监控申请；多数监控判令都是由一位法官单独签署的，去年法庭总共发出了将近1800项判令。来自该法庭的统计显示，没有一例来自情报机构的申请被驳回。
The officials said one central concept connects a number of the court’s opinions. The judges have concluded that the mere collection of enormous volumes of “metadata” — facts like the time of phone calls and the numbers dialed, but not the content of conversations — does not violate the Fourth Amendment, as long as the government establishes a valid reason under national security regulations before taking the next step of actually examining the contents of an American’s communications.
官员们认为该法庭的众多观点中贯穿着一个核心概念。法官们已经认定，纯粹收集大量的“元数据”——像通话时间、接通的电话号码等事实，而不是交谈的内容——并不违反宪法第四修正案，只要政府在接下来真正要审查一个美国人的通信内容时，能根据国家安全法规提出一个合理的理由就可以。
This concept is rooted partly in the “special needs” provision the court has embraced. “The basic idea is that it’s O.K. to create this huge pond of data,” a third official said, “but you have to establish a reason to stick your pole in the water and start fishing.”
从某种程度上来说，这一概念源自法庭所信奉的“特殊需要”原则。“基本上就是说，制造这样一个巨大的数据池是没问题的，”第三位官员表示，“但是在甩杆子开始钓鱼前，你必须给出一个理由。”
Under the new procedures passed by Congress in 2008 in the FISA Amendments Act, even the collection of metadata must be considered “relevant” to a terrorism investigation or other intelligence activities.
根据国会于2008年通过的《外国情报监视法修正案》(FISA Amendments Act)所规定的新程序，即便只是收集元数据也应先判断是否与恐怖行动调查或其他情报行动“有关联”。
The court has indicated that while individual pieces of data may not appear “relevant” to a terrorism investigation, the total picture that the bits of data create may in fact be relevant, according to the officials with knowledge of the decisions.
FISA法庭已表明，一些数据单独来看似乎与恐怖行动调查不存在“关联”，但了解这些裁决的官员们表示，事实上这些数据综合起来所展示的情况却可能是相关的。
Geoffrey R. Stone, a professor of constitutional law at the University of Chicago, said he was troubled by the idea that the court is creating a significant body of law without hearing from anyone outside the government, forgoing the adversarial system that is a staple of the American justice system. “That whole notion is missing in this process,” he said.
研究宪法的芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)教授杰弗里·R·斯通(Geoffrey R. Stone)表示，在没有听取任何政府以外的意见的情况下，FISA法庭正在打造一个重要的法律体系，放弃了作为美国司法体系之根本的对抗制度(adversarial system)，这让他深感不安。“在这个过程中，对抗的概念是完全缺失的。”
Even before the leaks by Mr. Snowden, members of Congress and civil liberties advocates had been pressing for declassifying and publicly releasing court decisions, perhaps in summary form.
早在斯诺登泄密之前就已经有国会议员和公民自由倡导者要求将FISA法庭的裁决解密，并可能以摘要的形式公之于众。
Reggie B. Walton, the FISA court’s presiding judge, wrote in March that he recognized the “potential benefit of better informing the public” about the court’s decisions. But, he said, there are “serious obstacles” to doing so because of the potential for misunderstanding caused by omitting classified details.
FISA法庭的主审法官雷吉·B·沃尔顿(Reggie B. Walton)曾在3月撰文称，他认识到将法庭的裁决“更多地告知公众也许是有益的”。但他也表示，由于在公布时需要略过一些机密的细节，可能会引起误解，因此公布裁决面临“严重的阻碍”。
Gen. Keith B. Alexander, the N.S.A. director, was noncommital when he was pressed at a Senate hearing in June to put out some version of the court’s decisions.
6月，NSA局长基思·B·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith B. Alexander)出席参议院的听证会，在被要求以某种形式公布这些法庭裁决时，他不愿作出承诺。
While he pledged to try to make more decisions public, he said, “I don’t want to jeopardize the security of Americans by making a mistake in saying, ‘Yes, we’re going to do all that.’ ”
他保证将尽量公布更多的裁决，但同时又表示，“我不能说‘好，我们会满足所有这些要求’。那是错的，会危及美国人的安全。”