WHITE HILLS, Ariz. — The four-hour tours offered by one of the big gun ranges here are a popular tourist attraction: Starting at $200 a person, a bus will pick up visitors at their hotel in Las Vegas, 25 miles to the north, show them Hoover Dam and bring them to a recreational shooting range called Last Stop, where they can fire the weapons of their dreams: automatic machine guns, sniper rifles, grenade launchers. A hamburger lunch is included; a helicopter tour of the nearby Grand Canyon is optional.
亚利桑那州怀特希尔斯——这里的一座大型射击场提供了一个颇受欢迎的四小时旅游项目：费用最低为每人200美元，在这里以北25英里的拉斯维加斯，巴士会从游客下榻的酒店接上他们，前往胡佛水坝进行参观，之后抵达名为“最后一站”(Last Stop)的休闲射击场，在那里，他们可以操控梦想中的武器：自动机枪、狙击步枪、榴弹发射器。包含一份汉堡午餐；可选项目：乘坐直升机游览附近的科罗拉多大峡谷。
But on Monday, one family's adventure went horribly wrong: A 9-year-old girl from New Jersey accidentally shot and killed her instructor with an Uzi submachine gun while he stood to her side, trying to guide her. A video of the shooting, which her parents recorded by cellphone, suggests that the girl, in pink shorts and with a braided ponytail, was unable to control the gun's recoil; the instructor, Charles Vacca, 39, was rushed to a hospital in Las Vegas, where he died Monday night.
但在周一，一个家庭的冒险之旅却出了致命的差错：一名来自新泽西州的9岁女孩，意外地用一把乌兹冲锋枪射杀了站在身边指导自己的教练。女孩的父母用手机录下了射击的过程，视频中显示，女孩穿着粉色短裤，梳着马尾，未能承受住枪的后坐力；教练查尔斯·瓦卡(Charles Vacca)现年39岁，他随后被紧急送往拉斯维加斯的医院，于周一夜里在那里去世。
The parents turned the cellphone video over to the sheriff's department, which released it publicly. As they spread online and on television, the images of a small girl losing control of a powerful war weapon during a family vacation created a worldwide spectacle, prompting some commentators to castigate parents who would put a submachine gun in the hands of a child.
女孩的父母把手机视频交给了警署，后者公开了这段视频。随着视频在网上和电视上传播，一个随家人度假的小女孩失去了对一把强大战争武器的控制的画面成了全世界的关注焦点，一些评论者严厉谴责了把冲锋枪交到孩子手里的父母们。
“What in the name of Jesus is wrong with us, Americans?” one person wrote on the TripAdvisor page for Bullets and Burgers, the tour company that brings people to Last Stop, amid other reviewers who raved about the great time they had firing guns there. “Automatic weapons as toys? And now a man is dead, for no reason, and a 9-year-old girl is scarred for life.”
“我们美国人到底出了什么毛病？”一名用户在“子弹与汉堡”(Bullets and Burgers)在旅游评论网站TripAdvisor的页面上写道。“子弹与汉堡”就是把游客带到“最后一站”的那家旅行社。页面上的其他人都在谈论在那里射击的美好时光。“把自动武器当玩具？现在，一个人就这么平白无故地死了，一个9岁女孩的一生永远留下了伤疤。”
Some gun owners took to Twitter to defend the practice of letting children use firearms and pointed out that it is both legal and commonplace in the Las Vegas area and elsewhere. But even the owner of the Last Stop, Sam Scarmardo, said he would reconsider the practice in light of Monday's accident.
在Twitter上，一些枪支所有者为允许儿童使用火器的做法进行了辩护，他们指出，在拉斯维加斯和一些其他地区，这么做既合法又常见。但就连“最后一站”的所有者萨姆·斯卡马多(Sam Scarmardo)也说，鉴于周一的事故，他会重新考虑这种做法。