BEIJING — Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew pushed China on Tuesday to let market forces decide its exchange rate, and pressed senior officials here not to undercut the Obama administration’s sanctions on Russia.
北京——周二，美国财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)敦促中国允许市场力量决定汇率，并向北京的高级官员施压，要求他们不要破坏奥巴马政府针对俄罗斯的制裁。
On his third trip to China since becoming Treasury secretary, Mr. Lew carried a familiar agenda: greater market access for foreign investors, less government control of exchange rate policy and concern about the overall health of the Chinese economy.
在就任财政部长以来的第三次访华之行中，雅各布·卢带来了一个熟悉的议程：要求中国对外国投资商扩大市场准入，要求中国减少政府对汇率政策的控制，表达对中国经济整体运行状况的担忧。
The renminbi has fallen about 3 percent this year. Analysts say China’s central bank is intervening in the currency markets to engineer a slide in the value of the currency. That would punish speculators and prevent big capital flows from the entering the country.
今年，人民币的贬值幅度已经达到了3%左右。分析人士称，中国央行正在干预货币市场，旨在促成人民币大幅贬值。这会使投机者遭受打击，阻止外来资本大量涌入中国。
In March, the People’s Bank of China widened the daily trading band of the currency, increasing the amount the currency is allowed to rise or fall each day.
今年3月，中国人民银行扩大了人民币每日交易区间，提高了人民币每天的浮动幅度上限。
“It is important that China demonstrate a renewed commitment to move to a more market-dominated exchange rate, which will help provide for more balanced domestic growth, and global trade, while also moving to a more transparent exchange rate policy,” Mr. Lew said in remarks to Wang Yang, the Chinese vice premier.
雅各布·卢对中国副总理汪洋表示，“重要的是，中国应该做出新的承诺，进一步推动由市场决定汇率，这将有助于推动更为均衡的国内增长和全球贸易。此外，中国还应该转向更加透明的汇率政策。”
In the long term, China says it plans to let the renminbi trade freely but American officials acknowledge that this is unlikely to happen in the near future. Still, the United States must keep pressing the case for the government to loosen its grip on the currency, American officials say.
中国表示，让人民币实现自由交易是中国的长期目标，但美国官员表示，这个目标不太可能在近期实现。美国官员称，尽管如此，美国还是必须对中国政府继续施压，使其放松对人民币的控制。
Mr. Lew discussed the Obama administration’s sanctions on Russia over the crisis in Ukraine, and asked China not to compensate Russia in ways that would lessen the impact of the sanctions.
雅各布·卢谈到了奥巴马政府就乌克兰危机对俄罗斯采取的制裁措施，并要求中国不要向俄罗斯提供可以减轻制裁压力的补偿。
“We discussed, as we do with many nations, the impact our sanctions are having and the importance that they are not offset by others’ coming in,” Mr. Lew told reporters after his day of meetings.
一天的会议结束之后，雅各布·卢告诉记者，“与和其他许多国家磋商的时候一样，我们此次也讨论了我们的制裁措施所产生的效果，以及确保这些效果不被其他因素冲抵的重要性。”
The Russian leader, Vladimir V. Putin, is scheduled to visit China next week and is expected to meet President Xi Jinping. There is speculation that the two leaders will sign an energy deal, or inspect joint military exercises involving the Russian and Chinese navies.
按照计划，俄罗斯领导人弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)将于下周访华，预计将会见中国国家主席习近平。根据相关猜测，两国领导人将签订一项能源协议，或者检阅中俄海军的联合军演。