Shruthi Aramandla’s education and her job are geared to New York City’s skyline. She did not want to go back to her native India and start all over again.
什鲁蒂·阿拉曼德拉(Shruthi Aramandla)的教育和工作都是为纽约这座城市准备的。她不想回到家乡印度重新开始。
Ms. Aramandla, 24, who has a master’s degree from the Tandon School of Engineering at New York University, has been waiting anxiously for the federal government to publish its new rule on a foreign-worker training program so she would know whether she could stay longer — and perhaps one day permanently — in the United States.
24岁的阿拉曼德拉从纽约大学坦登工程学院(Tandon School of Engineering at New York University)获得了硕士学位。她一直在焦急地等待联邦政府颁布关于外籍员工培训项目的新规定。她想知道，自己是否能在美国多待一段时间，或许将来某一天能永久性地留在美国。
The federal government will publish the rule on Friday, saying that international students earning degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields in the United States will now be eligible to stay for three years of on-the-job training. This is seven months longer than under the 2008 rule it replaces for the STEM Optional Practical Training program, known as OPT. The new rule will take effect on May 10.
联邦政府将于本周五公布这项新规定，其中表示在美国拿到科学、技术、工程和数学领域（简称STEM）学位的留学生将有资格停留三年，接受在职培训。针对STEM选择性实习项目（Optional Practical Training，简称OPT）的这一新规将取代2008年出台的原规定。和之前相比，新规定的时间延长了七个月。新规定将于5月10日生效。
Beyond offering graduates more experience in their fields, the extension serves another purpose. “If my work visa gets denied this year, I still have two more opportunities to apply, and I can keep working within the country,” said Ms. Aramandla, who wanted to be an engineer since she was 10, growing up in Chennai, India. She graduated from N.Y.U. in May; under the previous 29-month rule, she would have been able to stay only through October 2017.
除了让毕业生能在各自的领域积攒更多经验之外，这次延期还有另外的用意。“如果今年工作签证被拒，我还有两次申请机会，可以继续留在这里工作，”在印度钦奈长大的阿拉曼德拉说。去年5月，从10岁起就立志要当工程师的阿拉曼德拉从纽约大学毕业。按照之前29个月的规定，她只能待到2017年10月。
Ms. Aramandla will apply in April for a visa, known as an H-1B, for so-called skilled foreign workers. But Congress caps those yearly at 65,000, with an additional 20,000 slots for graduates with advanced degrees like Ms. Aramandla. The government received nearly four times as many applications for those visas as were accepted in last year’s lottery.
阿拉曼德拉将在4月申请H-1B签证。这种签证面向“外籍技术型员工”。但国会将这类签证的名额限制在每年6.5万人，另外2万个名额则面向像阿拉曼德拉这样拥有高等学位的毕业生。去年，政府收到的H-1B签证申请数量，几乎是所发放签证数量的四倍。
This rule is yet another flash point in the controversy over immigration reform. Industry leaders who say they are desperate for skilled talent and those defending the rights of American workers see the training program’s extension as an end-around to stalled reform. But that is all they agree upon.
不过，在围绕移民改革的争议中，这一规定也是一个触发点。宣称急需技术型人才的行业领袖和捍卫美国劳动者权益的人士均认为，在移民改革陷入停滞的情况下，培训项目时间延长是在曲线救国。然而，这是双方唯一能达成一致意见的地方。
“It’s an ongoing assault on American workers,” said John Miano, a lawyer for a technology workers’ union in Washington State, whose lawsuit last summer was what forced the government to vacate the previous rule and create a new one, this time for public comment.
“这是对美国劳动者的持续攻击，”华盛顿州一家技术从业者工会的律师约翰·米亚诺(John Miano)说。正是该工会去年夏天提起的诉讼，迫使政府停用之前的规定并制订新规定。这一次，新规定正在征求公众意见。
“They are just trying to double down on what they’re doing before,” he said of the government. “‘O.K., you didn’t like 29 months? We’ll make it 36 months.’”
谈到政府，他表示，“他们就是在强化以前的做法。‘好啊，不喜欢29个月是吧？那我们就定36个月吧。”
Mr. Miano says his group, the Washington Alliance of Technology Workers, is still arguing the legality of the program in an appeal. The next hearing will be in May at the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
米亚诺称，他代表的组织华盛顿技术从业者联盟(Washington Alliance of Technology Workers)仍在上诉，质疑该项目的合法性。下一场听证会将于5月在哥伦比亚特区联邦巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit)举行。
The government posted a similar version of the rule in the federal register in October, drawing more than 50,500 comments. (Death threats to President Obama were removed, officials said.) A large number of commenters who said they were foreign students supported the rule. But there were also comments from people who identified themselves as unemployed technology workers or concerned citizens who believed the government “was destroying this country,” and thought that it showed the government was “standing with illegals.”
政府曾于去年10月在联邦公报中登出了一项类似的规定，收到了超过5.05万条评论。（官方称，这个数字不包括对奥巴马总统发出的死亡威胁。）很多自称是留学生的评论者支持这项规定。但也有自称是失业的技术工作者或关心此事的普通民众的人发表评论说，他们认为政府“正在毁灭这个国家”，此事表明政府“站在非法人员一边”。
“I hope you rip it up,” one commenter said.
“希望你们把它撕了，”一条评论说。
The new rule states directly that “a STEM OPT student would not replace a full- or part-time, temporary or permanent U.S. worker,” and that the salary offered would “be commensurate” to American workers.
新规定直接表示，“STEM OPT学生不会取代美国员工的全职、兼职、临时或永久性的职位”，并称发放给他们的薪水与美国员工“相当”。
Officials with the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency said they tried to tighten training programs, mandate oversight of employers and make sure that the students come from accredited universities in an effort to prevent fraud.
移民与海关执法局(Immigration and Customs Enforcement)的官员称，他们在努力收紧培训项目、对雇主进行强制监督并确保学生来自经过认可的大学，以防止诈骗。
“In our mind, it enhances training and puts safeguards in to make sure that if you are an employer that you are not unfairly disadvantaging U.S. workers,” Rachel Canty, deputy director for the agency’s Student and Exchange Visitor Program.
“在我们看来，新规定会加强培训，还加入了保障措施，确保雇主没有不公平地让美国员工处于不利地位，”移民与海关执法局的学生和交流访问项目(Student and Exchange Visitor Program)副主任蕾切尔·坎蒂 (Rachel Canty)说。
The agency said it would provide help sessions for eligible students, employers and academic institution on its website on Friday.
该机构称，将于周五在自己的网站上为有资格的学生、雇主和学术机构提供帮助。
Ms. Aramandla, who works for Loring Consulting Engineers and designs heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems for schools in New York, said her training would not be applicable in India, nor would she find the same work environment there; as a woman in India, she feels she would not be as respected as she is in the United States.
阿拉曼德拉目前就职于洛林咨询工程公司(Loring Consulting Engineers)，为纽约多家学校设计采暖、通风和空调系统。她说，她受到的培训在印度会无处施展，那里也找不到同样的工作环境。作为女性，她觉得自己在印度不会像在美国这么受尊重。
Michael DesRochers, the president of Loring, said Ms. Aramandla was an integral employee in his technical work force, which is 7 percent foreign.
洛林的总裁迈克尔·德斯罗切尔斯(Michael DesRochers)称，公司的技术团队中外籍员工占7%，而阿拉曼德拉是其中的一份子。
“The labor market is tight,” Mr. DesRochers said. “We don’t look at it as the international students are taking away American opportunities. We feel we’re offering to all.”
“劳动力市场吃紧，”德斯罗切尔斯说。“我们并不认为是国际学生抢走了美国人的机会。我们感觉自己提供的机会是面向所有人的。”
His company’s work may intersect again with the new rule: Recently, his engineers replaced the ventilation and mechanical systems for the United States Supreme Court.
他的公司可能与新规定还会产生交集：最近，公司的工程师为美国最高法院(United States Supreme Court)更换了通风和机械系统。