WASHINGTON —Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew announced rules on Monday that are aimed at making it more difficult for American companies to lower their tax bills by relocating overseas and that would wipe out the benefits for those that do. It is the administration’s latest move to sidestep a paralyzed Congress and tackle a politically charged element of President Obama’s agenda.
华盛顿——周一，美国财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)宣布了一些新规定，意在让美国企业更难通过搬到海外，来减少纳税。这些规定还将削减实行这种操作的企业所取得的收益。这一举动是政府绕开陷入泥潭的国会，处理奥巴马总统的议程上，充满政治意味的事务的最新尝试。
“While there’s no substitute for congressional action, my administration will act wherever we can to protect the progress the American people have worked so hard to bring about,” Mr. Obama said in a statement after the regulations on the so-called corporate inversions were announced.
在针对企业税负倒置行为的规定宣布后，奥巴马发表声明称，“虽然没有什么能替代国会的行动，但我的政府将竭尽所能地保护美国民众辛勤劳动所带来的进步。”
The changes may affect pending inversion deals, like the one involving AbbVie, an Illinois-based pharmaceutical company that is in the process of acquiring its smaller British rival, Shire, or the Minneapolis medical device maker Medtronic, which is acquiring Covidien in Ireland.
这些变动可能会对悬而未决的倒置交易产生影响，比如涉及艾伯维(AbbVie)和美敦力(Medtronic)的交易。总部位于伊利诺伊州的制药企业艾伯维，正在收购规模较小的英国竞争对手沙尔制药(Shire)；明尼阿波利斯的医疗器械制造商美敦力，正在收购爱尔兰的柯惠医疗(Covidien)。
It is calculated to make companies considering such deals “think twice” before doing so, Mr. Lew said. Burger King announced last month it would acquire the Canadian coffee-and-doughnut chain Tim Hortons, focusing new attention on the pace of inversions.
这样做是为了让考虑进行此类交易的公司在行动前“三思”，雅各布·卢说。汉堡王(Burger King)上个月宣布，它将收购加拿大咖啡和甜甜圈连锁店蒂姆·霍顿斯(Tim Hortons)，于是人们对企业开展税负倒置的动作产生了的新关注。
“For some companies considering deals, today’s actions will mean that inversions no longer make economic sense,” Mr. Lew said. “These transactions may be legal, but they’re wrong.”
“对于一些正在考虑交易的公司，今天的行动将意味着倒置操作不再具有经济意义，”雅各布·卢说。“这些交易或许合法，但却是错的。”
Still, some Democrats, including those who have been the harshest critics of corporate inversions, said the actions were far too limited to substantially reduce the practice. Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York said the Obama administration had been hemmed in by the limits to its legal authority, yielding a set of rules that most likely will hold up in court but have little substantive effect.
然而，一些民主党人——包括对企业的倒置操作持最强烈批评态度的那些——都说这些行动太有限，不足以显著减少这种行为。纽约州参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)说，由于法定权力有限，奥巴马政府的行动受到了限制，制定了一套能在法庭上站得住脚，但却没有太大实际效果的规定。
“Certainly they made a good effort, but what this administrative action shows is that the only real way to stop inversions is legislative,” Mr. Schumer said in an interview. In particular, he said Congress must pass legislation that stops a practice known as “earnings stripping.” That is when a parent company loads up a United States subsidiary with debt, which can be deducted for tax purposes, rather than treating it as equity, which is not eligible for deductions — and that defines an inversion even more tightly.
“当然，他们做出了很大的努力，但是这届政府的行动表明，唯一能阻止倒置操作的真正途径就是立法，”舒默在采访中表示。他说，具体而言，国会必须通过立法来阻止所谓的“收益剥离”(earnings stripping)行为。这种行为指的是一家母公司向其美国子公司注入债务，而不是将这家美国子公司视作资产，前者可以减轻税负，而后者无法减轻税负。这样也能够更准确地定义“倒置”行为。
“The administration wanted to go as far as they legally could, but they’re very careful,” Mr. Schumer said, adding that he hopes a bipartisan deal for legislation on the issue can be reached in November.
“奥巴马政府希望能在法律规定的范围内做出最大努力，但他们非常谨慎，”舒默说。他还表示，他希望两党能在11月就涉及此事的立法达成协议。
While Mr. Lew said his preference was for Congress to act on a broad business tax overhaul that would include anti-inversion provisions, it had become clear that would not happen before the November postelection session. In the meantime, he said Treasury was exploring additional administrative steps to attack inversions, something the president said he supported.
虽然雅各布·卢说，他更希望国会能开展大规模的营业税改革，并将遏制倒置操作包含在内，但局面已经清楚地表明，在11月选举后的会议召开之前，这都不会发生。他同时也说，财政部正在研究其他能够遏制倒置操作的行政措施，奥巴马表示他支持这种做法。
“We’ve recently seen a few large corporations announce plans to exploit this loophole, undercutting businesses that act responsibly and leaving the middle class to pay the bill, and I’m glad that Secretary Lew is exploring additional actions to help reverse this trend,” Mr. Obama said.
奥巴马说，“我们最近看到，有几家大型企业宣布了利用这个漏洞的计划，这会对负责任的企业造成损害，让中产阶级来承担这些费用，财政部长雅各布·卢正在研究其他手段来扭转这种趋势，我对此感到高兴。”
An increasing number of United States companies are reaching deals to reorganize overseas, which has created a new opening in the run-up to the midterm congressional elections for Mr. Obama to make his signature argument about economic fairness. The president has said that companies that invert for tax purposes lack “economic patriotism.”
越来越多的美国企业正在达成协议，以便在海外进行重组，这对奥巴马而言是一个新机会，可以在国会中期选举前夕，发表有关经济公平的标志性论述。奥巴马总统表示，为了税收方面的好处而进行倒置操作的企业缺乏“经济爱国主义”。
The guidelines use existing Treasury regulations to crack down on complicated transactions like internal loans, stock purchases and sales that such inverted companies use to substantially reduce the tax they owe in the United States. They would short-circuit so-called hopscotch loans — when an American parent company uses its foreign subsidiary’s earnings without paying United States taxes — making the loans count as American property.
相关指导方针利用财政部现有的规定，打击内部贷款、股权买卖等复杂交易。税负倒置的企业正是利用这些交易，大幅降低其在美国的应纳税额的。这些规定也会打击所谓的“跳房子贷款”(hopscotch loans)，将这些贷款视为企业在美国的资产。所谓“跳房子贷款”指美国的母公司使用外国子公司的盈利，却不用在美国交税。
The rules also prevent inverted companies from taking advantage of a strategy known as decontrolling, when an inverted company essentially has its foreign entity buy enough stock from the American parent that it has access to earnings from the overseas branch without ever paying United States taxes on them. They could still make the stock purchases, but the tax benefit would vanish. And inverted companies could no longer transfer cash or property from an overseas entity to the new foreign parent company without paying taxes in the United States.
相关规定还禁止税负倒置的企业利用一种被称为“放松控制”的策略。在这种策略中，税负倒置的企业实际上通过让其在海外的实体从美国的母公司处购买足够多的股份，这样一来倒置企业就能得到海外分支的收入，而又不用在美国为这些收入交税。规定颁布后，它们依然可以购买股份，只是税收优惠将会取消。而且，倒置企业从某家海外实体向新成立的外国母公司转移现金或财产时，就需要在美国交税了。
In addition, Treasury plans to tighten an existing requirement that an inversion can take place only if the former owners of the American company own less than 80 percent of the resulting firm, and if the foreign entity is valued at more than 20 percent. Democratic lawmakers, including Mr. Schumer, have proposed adjusting that threshold to 50-50.
此外，财政部计划收紧现有的一项规定。该规定要求，只有当美国公司的前所有人在后成立的公司所持股份少于80%，或相关外国实体的估值超过20%时，才能进行倒置。包括舒默在内的民主党议员提议将这一门槛调整至50比50。
Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who is the chairman of the Finance Committee, said Treasury’s move “reinforces the urgency for action before this growing wave of inversions erodes our nation’s tax base, but only Congress has the full range of tools to address both the immediate problem and ensure U.S. businesses continue to be competitive in the global economy.”
俄勒冈州民主党人，参议院金融委员会(Finance Committee)主席罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)表示，财政部此举“再次表明了，在这股愈演愈烈的倒置浪潮侵蚀我国的税收基础之前，采取行动的紧迫性。但只有国会拥有一套完整的工具，既能应对眼前的问题，又能确保美国企业继续在全球经济中维持竞争力”。