WASHINGTON — President Obama’s decision to maintain troop levels in Afghanistan through 2015 is partly designed to bolster American counterterrorism efforts in that country, including the Central Intelligence Agency’s ability to conduct secret drone strikes and other paramilitary operations from United States military bases, administration officials said Tuesday.
华盛顿——政府官员周二表示，奥巴马总统之所以决定在2015年维持阿富汗驻军规模，一定程度上是为了巩固美国在该国的反恐力量，其中包括中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)实施秘密无人机袭击，以及从美军基地发起准军事行动的能力。
Mr. Obama on Tuesday announced he will leave 9,800 American troops in Afghanistan until at least the end of the year after a daylong White House meeting with President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan. The two men said the decision was a necessary response to the expected springtime resurgence of Taliban aggression and the need to give more training to the struggling Afghan security forces.
奥巴马在周二宣布，他和阿富汗总统阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)在白宫进行了持续一天的会晤，随后决定至少在今年底之前，不会撤走驻扎在该国的9800名美军。考虑到塔利班(Taliban)可能会在春季再度发起攻势，同时处境艰难的阿富汗安全部队也需要得到更多的培训，两人认为这是一个必要的对策。
But two American officials said that a significant part of the deliberations on the pace of the withdrawal had been focused on the need for the C.I.A. and military special operations forces to operate out of two large military bases: Kandahar Air Base in southern Afghanistan, and another base in Jalalabad, the biggest city in the country’s east. Reducing the military force by half from its current level, as planned, would have meant closing the bases and relocating many of the C.I.A.’s personnel and its contractors.
但两名美国官员说，从缓撤军的决定，在相当程度上是出于中情局和军方特种部队的需要，让它们可以在两大军事基地执行任务，其中一个是阿富汗南部的坎大哈空军基地，另一个基地位于该国东部最大城市贾拉拉巴德。如果按照之前的计划，将军事力量在现在的基础上减半，就需要关闭这两个基地，并将中情局及其承包商的许多人员转移到其他地点。
Jalalabad has been the primary base used by the C.I.A. to conduct drone strikes in the tribal areas of Pakistan. The drone operations were relocated there after the Pakistani government kicked the C.I.A. out of an air base inside Pakistan. The pace of drone strikes there has declined significantly since the peak during the early years of the Obama administration, but intelligence officials have lobbied to keep enough of a military presence in Afghanistan to allow the drone program to continue.
贾拉拉巴德是中情局在巴基斯坦部族地区实施无人机袭击行动的首要基地。无人机行动原本是在巴基斯坦境内的一处空军基地开展的，在巴基斯坦政府将中情局逐出该基地后，行动被转移到了贾拉拉巴德。无人机袭击的频次在奥巴马执政初期达到顶峰，之后有了显著减少，但情报官员一直在游说政府，要在阿富汗保持足够的军事存在，从而让无人机计划可以继续下去。
“The intelligence community sees around 10,000 troops as a key baseline to keep counterterrorism operations going in the country,” said one American official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss classified operations in Afghanistan.
“在情报界看来，要想在这个国家继续进行反恐行动，一万人左右的部队是一个关键底线，”一名美国官员透露。由于在阿富汗的行动事关机密，他要求在文中匿名。
The resilience of Al Qaeda in the mountains that straddle the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan has surprised many American officials, and there are fears that the Islamic State could gain a foothold in the Afghan conflict. Mr. Ghani has repeatedly raised the specter of the Islamic State in comments ahead of his trip to Washington and during his visit.
占据阿富汗和巴基斯坦边境山区的基地组织(Al Qaeda)之顽强，令许多美国官员感到意外，而且有人担心伊斯兰国(Islamic State)会在阿富汗冲突中站稳脚跟。在访问华盛顿之前以及访问期间，加尼都曾在发言中反复提到令人不安的伊斯兰国。
In a news conference on Tuesday, Mr. Obama pledged to “continue to conduct targeted counterterrorism operations” in Afghanistan. But he stressed the need for “flexibility” on troop levels as a way to maintain the overall security posture of Afghan forces in the country.
在周二的一场新闻发布会上，奥巴马承诺将在阿富汗“继续实施有针对性的反恐行动”。但他强调要在驻军规模上“灵活应变”，从而保障阿富汗军队在该国总体安全的态势。
“This flexibility reflects our reinvigorated partnership with Afghanistan, which is aimed at making Afghanistan secure,” Mr. Obama said, adding later that “we want to make sure that we’re doing everything we can to help Afghan security forces succeed.”
奥巴马说，“这种灵活应变反映出，我们和阿富汗的伙伴关系重新焕发出了活力，合作的目标就是要确保阿富汗的安全。”而后他还补充说，“我们一定要竭尽所能地去帮助阿富汗安全部队成功达成目标。”
Mr. Obama’s decision on the troop levels came after a direct entreaty from Mr. Ghani, who has been visiting the United States this week. While the decision will mean that some American soldiers who had expected to return home will rotate back into Afghanistan “for a few extra months,” Mr. Obama said, the additional time will be “well worth it.”
奥巴马是在加尼的坦率恳求下，做出维持驻军的决定的，后者本周在美国访问。奥巴马说，这一决定意味着，一些本来已经可以回家的美国士兵需要重返阿富汗，再留守“几个月时间”，这些额外的时间是“值得的”。
The extension was needed in part “so we don’t have to go back,” Mr. Obama said, “so we don’t have to respond in an emergency because terrorist activities are being launched out of Afghanistan.”
延长驻军时间一定程度上也是为了“不需要再回去”，奥巴马说，“这样我们就不会需要阿富汗出现恐怖分子活动时，仓促前去应对。”
Mr. Ghani, who expressed gratitude to American troops and taxpayers for their support, said the extension would allow his military to better prepare for the total withdrawal of United States forces, still scheduled for the end of 2016.
加尼对美国军队和纳税人的支持表达了感激，称延期的决定可以让他的军队为美军撤出后的局势做出更好的准备，按计划美军应于2016年底全部撤离阿富汗。
“Much binds us together, and the flexibility that has been provided for 2015 will be used to accelerate reforms to ensure that the Afghan security forces are much better led, equipped, trained, and are focused on their fundamental mission,” Mr. Ghani said, mostly speaking in English during the news conference.
“很多东西将我们维系在一起，针对2015年的这种灵活安排，可以帮我们加快改革的进度，确保阿富汗安全部队能够有更好的指挥、装备、训练，将精力集中在最核心的使命上，”加尼说。他在新闻发布会上基本使用英语发言。
The announcement was not unexpected. Administration officials had strongly suggested in recent days that Mr. Obama would agree to slow the pace of the troop withdrawal.
这不是一个出人意料的消息。有政府官员近日曾近乎明确地表示，奥巴马会同意延缓撤军的步调。
Mr. Ghani, making his first trip to the United States as president of his country, met throughout the morning with Mr. Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., discussing the future of American involvement in what Mr. Obama once declared a “necessary” war.
这是加尼任总统以来首次访问美国，他和奥巴马以及副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的会面持续了一个上午，双方商谈了美国军事介入阿富汗的前景。奥巴马曾经宣称介入阿富汗是一场“必要的”战争。
Mr. Obama has pledged to withdraw all but about 1,000 troops by the time he leaves office at the beginning of 2017. Those forces would operate largely in the Afghanistan capital, Kabul, protecting embassy personnel and other American officials there.
奥巴马此前承诺，到2017年初他卸任之时，驻阿富汗美军应该只剩1000人左右。届时他们大部分会在阿富汗首都喀布尔驻扎，负责保护那里的使馆人员以及其他美国官员。