WASHINGTON — Police officers in Ferguson, Mo., have routinely violated the constitutional rights of the city’s black residents, the Justice Department has concluded in a scathing report that accuses the officers of using excessive force and making unjustified traffic stops for years.
华盛顿——司法部(Justice Department)在一份措辞严厉的报告中称，密苏里州弗格森的警察经常性地侵犯这座城市黑人居民的宪法权利。该报告指责警方在多年时间里过度使用武力，在无正当理由的情况下拦截车辆。
The Justice Department, which opened its investigation after a white Ferguson police officer shot and killed a black teenager last summer, says the discrimination was fueled in part by racial stereotypes held by city officials. Investigators say the officials made racist jokes about blacks on their city email accounts.
去年夏天弗格森的一名白人警察开枪打死了一名黑人少年之后，司法部启动了调查。司法部称，助长了这种歧视的部分原因，来自城市官员对种族的刻板印象。调查人员称，官员们曾在工作邮件中开有关黑人的种族主义玩笑。
Ferguson is a largely black city with a government and a police force that are mostly white. After the shooting of the teenager, Michael Brown, the city erupted in angry, sometimes violent protests and looting. Since then, Ferguson has been at the center of a national debate over race and policing that has drawn in President Obama, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey.
弗格森的市民多数是黑人，但政府官员和警察基本上是白人。在名叫迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)的少年被打死之后，这座城市被激怒了，并爆发了几次暴力示威和洗劫事件。此后，弗格森一直是一场关于种族问题和治安手段的全国讨论的焦点，奥巴马总统、司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)和联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)也介入其中。
The report’s findings were summarized by a federal law enforcement official. The full report is expected to be released on Wednesday. A separate report is expected to clear the officer, Darren Wilson, of any civil rights violations in the shooting of Mr. Brown.
一位联邦执法官员简述了报告中的结论。完整报告预计将于周三发布。预计司法部还将发布一份报告，说明在布朗枪击案中，警官达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)没有任何侵犯民权的行为。
Ferguson officials now face the choice of either negotiating a settlement with the Justice Department or potentially being sued by it on charges of violating the Constitution.
弗格森的官员们现在面临的选择是，与司法部谈判达成一个和解方案，或者可能被司法部以违宪的罪名起诉。
In compiling the report, federal investigators conducted hundreds of interviews, reviewed 35,000 pages of police records and analyzed race data compiled for every police stop. They concluded that, over the past two years, African-Americans — who make up about two-thirds of the city’s population — accounted for 85 percent of traffic stops, 90 percent of citations, 93 percent of arrests and 88 percent of cases in which the police used force.
在编写这份报告的过程中，联邦调查员开展了数百次面谈，查阅了3.5万页警方记录，分析了警方所有车辆拦截的种族数据。他们得出结论，过去两年，85%的交通拦截、90%的传讯、93%的逮捕，以及88%的警方使用武力的情况，针对的是占这座城市人口三分之二的非裔美国人。
Black motorists were twice as likely as whites to be searched but were less likely to be found in possession of contraband such as drugs or guns.
黑人驾车者被要求停车搜查的概率是白人的两倍，但他们被发现藏有毒品和枪支等违禁品的概率却更小。