A federal investigation into the hiring practices of JPMorgan Chase has expanded beyond the borders of China, where the bank faces questions about whether it hired the children of powerful Chinese officials to win lucrative business there.
联邦政府对摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)雇佣行为的调查已经扩展至中国之外。人们质疑该银行，是否曾在中国通过雇佣掌权官员子女来获得有利可图的业务。
The bank disclosed in a securities filing on Friday that authorities were now looking into “its business relationships with certain related clients in the Asia Pacific region and its engagement of consultants in the Asia Pacific region.” JPMorgan did not specify where the inquiries were directed.
周五，该银行在证券备案文件中披露，相关部门正在调查“该行与亚太地区某些相关客户的业务关系，以及该行与亚太地区一些顾问的关系”。摩根大通没有说明调查的具体目标。
But according to people briefed on the matter, government authorities are examining JPMorgan’s hiring practices throughout Asia, focusing on South Korea, Singapore and India. That scrutiny comes after JPMorgan itself flagged those countries for further review, the people said.
但据一些知情人士透露，政府机构正在调查摩根大通在亚洲地区的雇佣行为，主要针对韩国、新加坡及印度。上述知情人士表示，政府调查开始之前，摩根大通自己也曾表示要对这些国家进行进一步调查。
The investigations from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department, the people noted, are still in fledgling stages. Hong Kong and British authorities are also investigating the bank’s hiring practices, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
前述人士指出，由美国证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）和司法部(Justice Department)开展的调查仍处于初始阶段。要求匿名的这些知情人士表示，香港和英国的相关部门也在调查该行的雇佣行为。
It is unclear whether authorities suspect improper activity in these regions beyond China, or are simply placing a marker for a possible broader investigation. Either way, though, the global focus signals a fresh challenge for the bank and an escalation of the inquiry.
目前还不清楚相关机构是怀疑该银行在中国之外的地方从事了不当活动，还是仅仅为了借此表明，可能会进行更广泛的调查。不管怎样，调查的全球性说明该银行面临新的挑战，调查也有所升级。
The focus of the case surfaced in August, when The New York Times reported that federal authorities — led by the S.E.C.’s antibribery unit — had begun an investigation into the bank’s hiring of the sons and daughters of China’s elite. They included the daughter of a Chinese railway official and the son of Tang Shuangning, a former Chinese banking regulator who is now the chairman of the state-controlled financial conglomerate China Everbright Group, according to a confidential government document reviewed by The Times.
此案在今年8月开始受到关注，当时《纽约时报》报道称，以SEC反贿赂部门为首的一些联邦机构开始对该银行雇佣中国精英阶层子女的行为进行调查。根据《纽约时报》查阅的一份政府机密文件，受雇该行的包括一名铁路官员的女儿，以及唐双宁的儿子。唐双宁曾是一名银行监管人员，现在担任国有金融公司中国光大集团的董事长。
At one point, according to interviews with the people who spoke on the condition of anonymity, the bank created a formal “Sons and Daughters” program. And in some cases, JPMorgan won business from companies with ties to the children.
据要求匿名的人士透露，该银行曾一度创立一个正式的“子女”项目。在部分事例当中，摩根大通从与官员子女有关系的公司获得了业务。
JPMorgan, which first made an oblique reference to the S.E.C.’s investigation in its quarterly filing in August, said on Friday that the bank was “cooperating with these investigations.” The bank declined to comment further.
在今年8月的季报中，摩根大通首次含糊提及SEC的调查。摩根大通在周五表示，该行正在“配合这些调查”。该行拒绝进一步置评。
JPMorgan has not been accused of any wrongdoing. Public documents do not show a concrete tie between the bank’s decision to hire children of Chinese officials and its ability to secure lucrative business deals.
摩根大通尚未遭受行为不当的指控。公共文件并未显示，该银行雇佣中国官员子女的决定与其获得有利可图的商业交易的能力之间存在具体联系。
The bank has begun an exhaustive review of its own hiring practices across the globe, according to people with knowledge of the internal investigation. It is also regularly providing documents to the S.E.C. and the Justice Department, these people said.
据了解内部审查的知情人士透露，该行自身已经开始对全球范围内的雇佣行为进行彻查。这些知情人士表示，该行定期向SEC和司法部提交文件。
The broadening scrutiny comes as the bank, once a favorite in Washington, is grappling with legal and regulatory woes. Even as JPMorgan has reached a tentative $13 billion settlement over its mortgage practices in the run-up to the financial crisis, it is also facing an accelerating criminal investigation related to Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme. In that case, federal prosecutors in Manhattan and the F.B.I. suspect JPMorgan failed to alert authorities to indications of Mr. Madoff’s fraud.
日渐扩大的调查到来之际，曾是华盛顿宠儿的摩根大通已经深陷法律和管理的困境。财政危机即将到来之时，它刚刚就其抵押政策达成了一个130亿美元（约合792亿元人民币）的初步和解协议，此外，它还因伯纳德·L·麦道夫(Bernard L. Madoff)的庞氏骗局(Ponzi scheme)而面临越来越严厉的刑事调查。在这个案件中，曼哈顿的联邦检察官和联邦调查局(FBI)怀疑摩根大通未能就麦道夫的诈骗行为向官方发出预警。
The corruption investigations into JPMorgan’s hiring practices could prove particularly thorny for the bank and its chief executive, Jamie Dimon.
事实可能会证明，关于摩根大通雇佣政策的腐败调查让它和它的首席执行官杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)尤其头疼。
The investigations hinge on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a 1977 federal law that effectively bars United States companies from giving “anything of value” to foreign officials to obtain “an improper advantage” in retaining business. In recent years, the S.E.C. and the Justice Department have increased their enforcement of the law, which is violated if a company acts with “corrupt” intent, or with the expectation of offering a job in exchange for government business.
调查依据美国的《反海外腐败法》(Foreign Corrupt Practices Act)展开。这个1977年的联邦法案禁止美国公司以获取业务上的“不当优势”为目的，向外国官员提供“任何有价值的物事”。近年来，SEC和司法部加大了该法的执行力度。如果公司的活动带有“贿赂”意图，或希望通过提供工作来交换政府业务，就会违反该法。
So far that link is unclear in the JPMorgan case. Yet, according to interviews, along with a review of securities filings and news reports, JPMorgan employees in Asia pinpointed the advantages of hiring the officials’ children. In an internal document, the interviews show, the employees linked the hires to the “revenue” that JPMorgan obtained from companies run by those same officials.
目前为止，摩根大通案当中的这种联系还不明显。然而，根据采访以及对证券备案文件和新闻报道的分析，摩根大通的亚洲员工已经非常详细地讲述了雇佣官员子女的好处。采访显示，摩根大通的员工在一份内部文件中称，此类雇佣与摩根大通从同一批官员所管理的公司中获得的“收益”有关。
In the case of Tang Xiaoning, the son of the chairman of China Everbright, the S.E.C. and the Justice Department are examining the employees at the bank who were involved in the decision to hire Mr. Tang, who is thought to have joined JPMorgan in 2010. Authorities, the people said, are zeroing in on whether JPMorgan won coveted business from the China Everbright Group and its banking subsidiary.
关于光大集团董事长之子唐小宁（音译）受聘一事，SEC和司法部正在对与决定雇佣唐小宁有关的摩根大通员工进行调查。据信，唐小宁于2010年加入摩根大通。相关人士称，官方正在集中调查，摩根大通是否曾从中国光大集团及其银行业子公司获取垂涎已久的业务。
The hiring of Mr. Tang, the review of securities filings and news reports shows, came at an opportune time for the bank. Before employing Mr. Tang, JPMorgan seemed to do little if any business at all with China Everbright. But since the hiring, China Everbright has become one of the bank’s esteemed Asian clients. JPMorgan was picked in 2011 to be one of 12 financial advisers on China Everbright’s decision to become a public company. The deal languished in the midst of turbulent markets and broad questions about China’s banking system.
对证券备案文件及新闻报道的分析发现，雇佣唐小宁的时机对摩根大通十分有利。在雇佣唐小宁之前，摩根大通似乎不曾与中国光大有过任何交易，即便有也很少。但是，自从雇佣唐小宁之后，中国光大便成了摩根大通最受重视的亚洲客户之一。2011年，摩根大通被中国光大选为提供上市建议的12家金融机构之一。由于市场动荡，再加上人们对中国银行体系的疑问层出不穷，这项交易进展缓慢。
And in 2012, JPMorgan was the sole bank chosen to advise China Everbright International, a subsidiary, on a $162 million sale of shares, according to S&P Capital IQ, a research service. According to securities filings, JPMorgan owns a stake in the subsidiary.
调研服务公司标普资本智商(S&P Capital IQ)表示，2012年，光大集团的子公司中国光大国际决定出售价值1.62亿美元的股票，摩根大通被选为惟一的一家顾问银行。根据证券备案文件，摩根大通持有该子公司的股份。
Then that same year, JPMorgan helped China Everbright navigate its role in what was, according to Dealogic, the largest private equity deal ever in China.
同年晚些时候，摩根大通又引导中国光大进行了一次私募股权交易。据数据提供商Dealogic统计，此次交易是中国有史以来规模最大的私募股权交易。
The “Sons and Daughters” program started in 2006 as the friends and family of China’s top echelons were jostling for positions at JPMorgan, the interviews show. And what began as an effort to ferret out nepotism and avoid bribery accusations in the United States became a two-tiered process. Those well-heeled applicants appeared to enjoy less stringent standards and fewer interviews.
采访表明，“子女”项目始于2006年，中国高层人士的朋友和家人当时都在争夺摩根大通的职位。该项目的初衷是防止裙带关系，避免在美国受到贿赂指控，结果却成了一把双刃剑。那些家世显赫的应聘者所面临的入职标准似乎没有那么严格，需要接受的面试也较少。