The brutal death of a 36-year-old transgender woman in Kansas City, Mo., is the latest in what activists are calling an alarming rise in anti-transgender violence.
在密苏里州堪萨斯城，活动人士援引一名36岁的跨性别女子的惨死指出针对跨性别者的暴力行为出现了令人警惕地增长。
Tamara Dominguez, who was reported to have migrated from Mexico to escape discrimination, was hit by a vehicle early Saturday and run over several times, making her the 17th transgender person reported killed this year, according to data compiled by the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs.
据报道，为摆脱歧视从墨西哥移民到美国的塔玛菈 · 多明格斯于周六早些时候被一辆汽车撞到后并反复碾压而身亡。美国全国反暴力计划联盟指出，她是今年报道的第17位被杀害的跨性别人士。
Most of the victims have been black or Hispanic.
这其中大部分的遇害者都是黑人或者西班牙裔。
By comparison, 12 killings of transgender people were recorded by the coalition in 2014, said Sue Yacka, a spokeswoman.
女发言人休 · 雅卡说，在2014年有12名跨性别人士的遇害事件被该联盟记录在册。
Transgender activists believe the killing in Kansas City was motivated by Ms. Dominguez’s gender identity. Randall Jenson, a representative for the Kansas City Anti-Violence Project who has been working with Ms. Dominguez’s family, characterized her death as an “intentional act” meant to send a message.
跨性别活动人士认为这起发生在堪萨斯城的命案的起因是因为多明格斯的性别认同。兰德尔 · 詹森，堪萨斯城反暴力项目的一名代表一直在跟多明格斯的家人落实此事，他将此事归类为一起“有预谋的犯罪事件”，并认为这起事件是要传达某种信号。
And those are just the killings that are reported, said Kris Hayashi, executive director of the Transgender Law Center. Mr. Hayashi said that recent media coverage had brought increased visibility to each victim, but that the killings reflected an “ongoing” state of crisis for the community.
“那些仅仅是些见诸报端的谋害事件“，跨性别法律中心的执行董事克里斯 · 林说道。他指出最近的媒体报道为每个遇害者都增加了曝光度，但这些谋杀反映出了存在于跨性别人士社区的状态“持久的”危机。
Activists say transgender women of color, who are often poor, are most at risk of violence.
活动人士指出，属于有色人种的跨性别女子通常较为穷困，她们被施暴的风险最高。
Hoping to increase visibility for the killings, transgender activists and allies are sharing pictures of victims as their deaths are reported.
跨性别活动人士和团体希望通过分享那些报道中的遇害者的照片来增加谋杀事件的曝光度。
Also alarming to advocates is that several of the 17 people killed have been slain just this summer. Other recent cases include India Clarke, a 25-year-old black transgender woman who was found dead in July from a gunshot in Tampa Bay, Fla.; Kenton Haggard, a 66-year-old who activists say was transgender, and who was killed in a stabbing in July in Fresno, Calif., that was caught on video; and Kandis Capri, a 35-year-old transgender woman, who was shot and killed in Phoenix on Aug. 11.
让活动人士同样感到警惕的是，这17名遇害者当中数人都是在今年夏天被杀害的。其他最近的案件包括一名名叫印迪雅 · 克拉克的25岁黑人跨性别女子，她是在佛罗里达州坦帕湾被枪击中而身亡的；坎顿 · 海格，活动人士称其是一位66岁的跨性别者，在加州夫勒斯诺市被刺身亡，这一切都被记录在了监控录像里；坎迪斯 · 凯普利，一名35岁的跨性别女子，于8月11日在凤凰城被枪杀。
Laverne Cox, the transgender actress, said in a statement on Thursday that a lack of national outrage over the killings “adds insult to injury.”
周四，一名跨性别女演员拉维恩 · 考克斯在一份声明中指出，国民对这些谋杀案缺少愤慨之情，这对遇害者是“进一步的侮辱”。
She said transgender women of color exist at the “intersection of multiple forms of violence which are also about race, misogyny, poverty and a system that reinforces the fallacy that we shouldn’t exist and don’t exist.”
她说属于有色人种的跨性别女子处于“多种暴力形式的交叉点上，这些暴力同样跟种族、女性歧视、贫穷以及一种强调我们不应存在或根本就不存在的谬误体系有关。”
A suspect was arrested and charged with Ms. Clarke’s killing after the police found DNA evidence and a condom that contained fluid in her car. There have been no arrests in Ms. Capri’s death, according to ABC 15 in Phoenix, but her family is seeking a hate crime investigation. And authorities say there is no update in Kenton Haggard’s case.
在找到DNA证据和一个在克拉克车子里存有体液的避孕套之后，警方逮捕了一名嫌疑人并指控其涉嫌谋杀。而据位于凤凰城的美国广播公司第15频道指出，并没有人在凯普利一案中被逮捕，但她的家人正在试图启动一项关于仇恨犯罪的调查。而对于坎顿 · 海格的案子，当局称没有新的进展。
Mr. Hayashi said that transgender people faced a system of discrimination — which includes lack of access to health care, education, housing and job resources — that can result in people who put themselves in “really vulnerable positions as far as the violence that we’re seeing.”
林说跨性别人士面临着系统性的歧视 —— 这包括缺少获得医疗保健、教育、住房以及求职资源的机会 —— 而这些将导致他们被公众置于一种不亚于显而易见的暴力的脆弱地位。
The organization receives about 2,500 calls a year from transgender people and their families seeking assistance, Mr. Hayashi said. The demand often outweighs the resources.
林说，该组织每年从跨性别人士及其家属那里接到大约2500通寻求帮助的来电。供不应求的情况时有发生。
Mr. Jenson, of the Kansas City Anti-Violence Project, said that lengthy police investigations, sometimes carried out in a way that activists feel lack dignity and thoroughness, had sometimes led to tension between officers and the communities they serve.
堪萨斯城“反暴力项目”的成员詹森说，漫长的警方调查，执行方式有时让活动人士感到尊严受损且不够彻底，这在某些时候会导致警察及其所管辖的社区之间出现紧张的气氛。
“We get told by agencies that we’re hindering the process or hurting our communities because they don’t understand hate crimes or how it could work,” Mr. Jenson said. “It’s not a community’s job to have to educate themselves on such a nuanced system and hate crime laws that do not actually work.”
“某些机构告诉我们说，我们在阻碍进程或者是在伤害我们的社区，因为他们并不了解什么是仇恨犯罪或者它们是如何产生的”詹森说，“对民众进行关于如此微妙的体系的教育并非某个社区的职责，而且有关仇恨犯罪的法律事实上执行乏力。”
Tension has also occurred over how the gender of a person who either publicly or privately identifies as transgender is reflected in a police report: In Tampa, Kansas City and Fresno, the police referred to Ms. Clarke, Ms. Dominguez and Kenton Haggard by their legal — male — names, which offends activists. And questions have been raised, particularly in the case of Kenton Haggard, over whether the victim publicly identified as transgender at all, though activists include the killing in the summer’s count of fatalities.
紧张气氛同样因警方在其报告中如何定义一个公开的或非公开的跨性别人士的性别而产生：在坦帕市、堪萨斯城和夫勒斯诺市，警方以合法的男性名字来称呼克拉克、多明格斯和坎顿，这让活动人士感到冒犯。而另一方面，质疑声也随之而起，特别是对于坎顿 · 海格的案子，人们在怀疑该遇害者到底是否公开地将自己视为为一名跨性别者，尽管活动人士将其遇害一事包含在了夏季谋杀的死亡人数里。
Lt. Joe Gomez, the public information officer for the Fresno police, said gender was not a factor in efforts to investigate the death. On Thursday, he said that criticism of the police had been “blown out of proportion.”
负责夫勒斯诺市警局公共信息部分的陆军少尉乔 · 戈麦斯说，性别问题在致力于死亡调查方面并非重要因素。在周四时，他说那些针对警方的批评“言过其实”。
“It’s just not an issue in this case,” he said. “We are hoping the community comes forward with more information on the suspect.”
“这对该案来说根本无关紧要，”他说道，“我们希望跨性别社区能够提供更多关于嫌犯的信息。”