Damage from the disclosures of United States spying on its European and Asian allies spread on Monday, threatening negotiations on a free trade agreement, hurting President Obama’s standing in Europe and raising basic questions of trust among nations that have been on friendly terms for generations.
美国监听其欧、亚盟友的消息遭披露后，由此带来的损害在周一进一步扩大：危及一项自由贸易协议的谈判，影响到奥巴马总统在欧洲的形象，并且就世代友好的国家间的基本信任提出了质疑。
President François Hollande of France issued some of the harshest language yet from a European leader on the issue, telling reporters that “we cannot accept this kind of behavior between partners and allies” and suggesting that talks on the trade pact, scheduled to start next week, should be delayed at least until questions over the spying issue were resolved and confidence restored.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)就这一问题发表的言论是迄今为止欧洲领导人发出的最严苛的声音，他告诉记者们，“我们无法接受伙伴和盟友之间发生这样的行为”，并建议推迟计划于下周开始的贸易协定谈判，至少要等到监听引起的质疑得到解决、信心重建之后，再来谈贸易协定。
It was not so much the fact of the spying as its sheer scale that alarmed European leaders and others here. Elmar Brok, an outspoken German who is chairman of the European Parliament’s foreign affairs committee, said that “the spying has reached dimensions that I did not think were possible for a democratic country.” He said the United States had “lost all balance — George Orwell is nothing by comparison.”
令欧洲领导人和其他欧洲人震惊的，与其说是监听这一事实，不如说是其规模。埃尔马·布罗克(Elmar Brok)是欧洲议会(European Parliament)外事委员会主席，这名坦率的德国人表示，“对于一个民主国家来说，我曾以为这样的监听规模是不可能出现的。”他说美国已经“完全失去了平衡，相比之下乔治·奥威尔(George Orwell)算不得什么”。
While some of the comments were political and from leaders of countries that also spy with great energy against their allies, there was a new tone of disappointment with President Obama and concern that the American intelligence system had become too large for careful political oversight.
尽管其中一些评论是出于政治考虑，而且说这话的领导人，他们自己的国家也在不遗余力地监听盟国，但人们显然对奥巴马总统产生了新的失望，也担忧美国情报体系已发展得过于庞大，细密的政治监督已无法钳制它。
“France is a cynical country,” said François Heisbourg, a defense expert at the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris. “We all spy, but the difference here is the scale — up to 60 million connections in Germany in a day!”
“法国是一个悲观的国家，”巴黎战略研究基金会(Foundation for Strategic Research)的防务专家弗朗索瓦·埃斯堡(François Heisbourg)说。“我们都会进行刺探，但区别在于规模——（美国）每天在德国截获高达6000万个通信数据包！”
That spies go “spearfishing” after particular targets is one thing, he said. “But no one has understood that our societies were being spied on so massively — this isn’t spearfishing but trawling with a big, big net. That’s the real shocker.”
他说，间谍对某些特定目标进行“鱼叉捕鱼”是一回事，“但没人会理解，我们社会被监听的范围如此巨大——这并不是鱼叉捕鱼，而是撒下一张很大很大的拖网来捕鱼。这是真正让人吃惊的地方。”
The European Parliament, which will vote on any free trade agreement, will debate the latest spying revelations in Brussels on Wednesday, with the Parliament’s president, Martin Schulz of Germany, saying that he was “deeply worried and shocked.”
欧洲议会会针对任何自由贸易协定进行投票，议员将于周三在布鲁塞尔就最新披露出的监听信息进行辩论，来自德国的议长马丁·舒尔茨(Martin Schulz)表示，他“深感担忧和震惊”。
European lawmakers across the political spectrum warned of a loss of confidence in the Obama administration that would make a free trade deal difficult. Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the Green Party floor leader, spoke for many when he said that the European Union “must immediately suspend negotiations with the U.S. over a free trade agreement.” First, he said, “we need a deal on data protection so that something like that never happens again.”
来自不同政治阵营的欧盟议会议员们纷纷警告，对奥巴马政府丧失信心将导致自由贸易协议的难产。欧洲议会绿党(Green Party)领袖丹尼尔·科恩-本迪特(Daniel Cohn-Bendit)说，欧盟“必须立即暂停与美国就自由贸易协议进行的谈判”。这代表了很多人的意见。他说，首先，“我们必须在数据保护上达成一个协议，以确保这类事件绝不会再次发生。”
The reaction was particularly angry in Germany, with its history of Nazism and the East German Stasi, made more acute by the disclosure that a large part of the American interception efforts were aimed there.
由于历史上出现过纳粹主义和东德斯塔西（Stasi，秘密警察——译注），德国的反应尤其愤怒，而且披露的消息显示，德国是美国人信息截获行动的一个主要目标，这使得人们的怒火格外炙烈。
Michael Grosse-Brömer, parliamentary president for the ruling conservative bloc, warned that if the reports proved true, “it would be sufficient to shatter mutual trust and to damage the close, trusting trans-Atlantic relationship.”
迈克尔·格罗斯-布鲁默(Michael Grosse-Brömer)是来自执政的保守派阵营的议会议长，他警告说，如果这些报道是真实的，“它就足以粉碎相互间的信任，并损害紧密、互信的跨太平洋伙伴关系。”
Mr. Obama was in Berlin on June 19, giving a speech in which he explained that the spying programs were about counterterrorism and served the interests of all allies. But the online edition of the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel and The Guardian, based on leaks from Edward J. Snowden, the former American intelligence contractor, reported on Saturday that the spying and data collection included the European Union offices in Brussels and Washington, which struck many here as unlikely places to find terrorists.
奥巴马于6月19日在柏林发表了一番讲话，其中他阐述了，间谍计划的目的是反恐，并服务于所有盟国的利益。但是，基于美国情报机关前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的消息，德国新闻类杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)的网络版和《卫报》(The Guardian)在周六的报道中指出，谍报和数据收集的目标包括了欧盟(European Union)在布鲁塞尔和华盛顿的办公室，对于很多欧洲人来说，这些都不太可能会是恐怖分子出没的地方。
Terrorism is real and “there are systems that have to be checked, especially to fight terrorism,” Mr. Hollande said, “but I don’t think that it is in our embassies or in the European Union that this threat exists.”
恐怖主义是真实存在的，“有一些组织机构是需要进行审查的，特别是为了反恐目的，”奥朗德说，“但我不认为，这种威胁会存在于我们的大使馆或者欧盟办公室里。”
Many intelligence experts dismissed as posturing the expressions of shock and disappointment among Europe’s leaders. Richard J. Aldrich, a former intelligence officer who teaches international security at Britain’s University of Warwick, said that he was “often surprised by the disconnect between political leaders whom one presumes get intelligence reports and the level of indignation they express.”
许多情报专家对此不屑一顾，认为这些欧洲领导人不过是装出震惊、失望的样子。前情报人员、在英国华威大学(University of Warwick)教授国际安全的理查德·J·奥德里奇(Richard J. Aldrich)说，他“常常惊讶于那些政界领袖们的表现，他们应该会收到情报报告，却对于此类事情表现出如此程度的愤慨，这两者是脱节的”。
European allies themselves spy on the European Union and have been happy to collaborate with the United States on intelligence gathering and even rendition, Mr. Aldrich said, “so long as everything remains secret.” 
欧洲盟国自己也会监听欧盟的活动，也乐于在情报收集甚至分析上配合美国，奥德里奇说，“只要一切保密。”
While France, Germany and other allies all spy, there is a large imbalance in technical means, which adds to the discomfort. James Bamford, the author of a 1982 book about the National Security Agency, “The Puzzle Palace,” said that the latest technology gives the United States a huge qualitative advantage over its partners.
虽然法国、德国和其他盟国都会进行监听，但科技手段上却有很大差距，这增加了它们的不安。詹姆斯·班福德(James Bamford)在1982年出版了一本关于美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的书《迷宫》(The Puzzle Palace)，他认为最新的科技手段令美国在面对其盟国时，拥有巨大的实质性优势。
“The difference is, you’re comparing eavesdropping with a nuclear weapon to eavesdropping with a cannon,” he said. “These countries don’t have anywhere near the capacity that the N.S.A. does in terms of their capacity to do to us what we do to them.”
“两方监听能力的差别就好像是核武器和大炮的对比，”他说。“比较这些国家监听美国的能力和NSA监听这些国家的能力，它们差得太远。”
Mr. Bamford, like other experts, said that Washington’s interest in Germany was understandable, both because of its political and economic clout and the fact that the Sept. 11, 2001, terror plot was hatched in Harburg, near Hamburg.
和其他专家一样，班福德也表示，华盛顿对德国的兴趣是可以理解的，既因为其政治、经济影响力，也是由于2001年的“9·11”恐怖阴谋就是在汉堡附近的哈尔堡县酝酿的。
In Tanzania on Monday, the last stop in his weeklong trip to Africa, Mr. Obama said that he had directed his staff to examine the latest reports regarding spying on United States allies. “We will take a look at this article, figure out what they may or may not be talking about, and then we’ll communicate with our allies appropriately,” Mr. Obama said.
坦桑尼亚是奥巴马为期一周的非洲行的最后一站，周一，奥巴马在当地表示，他已经要求下属审核有关监听美国盟国的最新报告。“我们会研究这篇文章，了解他们谈到了哪些问题，然后我们会与盟友进行恰当的沟通，”奥巴马说。
He said of every intelligence service: “Here’s one thing that they’re going to be doing: they’re going to be trying to understand the world better and what’s going on in world capitals around the world, from sources that aren’t available through The New York Times or NBC News.”
他在谈到所有情报机构时表示：“有一件事是它们将要做的：他们将努力更好地理解这个世界、更好地理解世界各国首都正在发生的事，它们的信息源是《纽约时报》和NBC新闻频道(NBC News)拿不到的。
“If that weren’t the case, then there’d be no use for an intelligence service,” he said, adding, “I guarantee you that in European capitals, there are people who are interested in, if not what I had for breakfast, at least what my talking points might be should I end up meeting with their leaders. That’s how intelligence services operate.”
“如果不是这样，那还要情报机构干什么，”他说，并补充道，“我向你保证，在欧洲各国的首都，一定会有一些人，就算他们对我早餐吃什么不感兴趣，至少在我与他们的领导人见面之前，会想知道我的谈话要点。情报机构就是这样运作的。”