WASHINGTON — Several gunshots were fired from a vehicle speeding by the home of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Greenville, Del., on Saturday night, according to federal law enforcement officials.
华盛顿——联邦执法官员称，周六夜里，在副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)位于特拉华州格林维尔的寓所附近，一辆疾驰而过的汽车打出了数发子弹。
The vice president and his wife, who were staying at the home over the weekend, were not there at the time of the shooting, which occurred around 8:25 p.m., the officials said.
官员们透露，副总统和夫人这个周末是在家度过的，但枪击时他们并不在家中，当时大约是晚上8点25分。
Secret Service agents and the local police were unable to catch the vehicle as it raced away.
在这辆车驶离现场的过程中，特勤局(Secret Service)特工和当地警方没能追上枪手的车辆。
It was not clear whether any of the shots hit Mr. Biden’s residence, or even if they were aimed directly at the home, which sits roughly 300 yards back from the road, the officials said.
官员们称，尚不清楚是否有子弹击中了拜登的寓所，也不清楚这些子弹是不是直接瞄准房屋射出的。拜登寓所的位置距离马路有大约300码（约合275米）远。
Secret Service agents canvassed the home on Sunday morning for bullet marks. There was no immediate explanation for a possible motive.
周日上午，特勤局的特工们仔细检查了住宅上是否有被子弹击中的痕迹。目前没有出现对可能的开枪动机的解释。
“The Secret Service is working closely with the New Castle County police on investigating this incident,” said Edwin Donovan, a spokesman for the Secret Service.
“特勤局正在与纽卡斯尔县警方密切合作，对此案展开调查，”特勤局发言人埃德温·多诺万(Edwin Donovan)说。
The F.B.I.’s Baltimore field office also is assisting with the investigation.
美国联邦调查局(FBI)的巴尔的摩办公室也在协助调查。
Less than an hour after the shooting, a man in a vehicle tried to drive past a police officer who was securing the area around the vice president’s home. The man resisted arrest, officials said, and was taken into custody and questioned.
在枪击事件发生不到一个小时后，一名男子试图驾车从一名正在副总统寓所附近戒备的警察面前驶过。官员们透露，这名男子面对逮捕时进行了抵抗，现已被羁押并受到讯问。
President Obama and Mr. Biden were briefed on the episode Saturday night, the officials said.
官员称，奥巴马总统和拜登在周六夜里听取了事件的简要汇报。
The shooting occurred as the Secret Service was working to rehabilitate its image after a string of embarrassing scandals.
枪击事件发生时，经历了一系列尴尬丑闻的特勤局正在努力重塑形象。
The agency’s director, Julia Pierson, resigned in October, as the agency came under withering criticism after a man with a knife climbed over the fence in front of the White House and managed to make his way through the North Portico door.
在一名持刀男子翻过白宫前面的栅栏，并设法通过了白宫北廊柱的那道门后，特勤局受到了严厉的指责，该局局长茱莉亚·皮尔森(Julia Pierson)于去年10月辞职。
Joseph P. Clancy, a former head of the president’s protective detail who took over from Ms. Pierson and is the agency’s interim director, would like to become the permanent director.
之前担任总统安保负责人的约瑟夫·P·克兰西(Joseph P. Clancy)接替了皮尔森的职务，现在担任特勤局的临时局长，并希望成为正式局长。