LOS ANGELES — Federal agents on Wednesday executed search warrants at several sites in greater Los Angeles that the authorities say were connected to a $50 million visa fraud operation.
洛杉矶——周三，联邦探员在大洛杉矶地区的几个地方执行搜查令，当局表示与这与涉及5000万美元的签证诈骗行为有关。
The multiyear investigation, which used Mandarin-speaking agents, is the latest to highlight abuses in the EB-5 program, which offers foreign investors a fast path to a green card. The program is also the target of a crackdown by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
这一调查历时多年，动用了能说普通话的探员。它再次突显了EB-5签证计划中存在的滥用现象，该签证计划为外国投资者提供了获取绿卡的快速途径，同时也成为美国证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)打击的目标。
The search warrants include allegations of visa fraud, money laundering and “inducing foreigners to reside in the U.S. in violation of the law.” More than 100 people have been linked to the scheme, according to the Department of Homeland Security, which worked with the F.B.I. on the investigation.
搜查令涉及关于签证诈骗、洗钱和“引诱外国人通过违反法律的方式获得美国居留权”的指控。根据与联邦调查局合作调查的国土安全部统计，涉案者超过100人。
Under the EB-5 program, foreigners and their immediate families are eligible for a green card if they invest $500,000 in a development project in an area of high unemployment that creates at least 10 jobs. Participation can result in a green card in less than a year in some instances. The cards can normally take a decade to obtain through sponsorship from an American employer or relative.
根据EB-5计划，外国人及其直系亲属如果在某一高失业率区域内的发展项目中投资50万美元，至少创造10个就业岗位，便有资格获得绿卡。在某些情况下，参与者可能在不到一年内就获得绿卡。一般情况下，绿卡往往需要经过十年，才能在美国雇主或亲戚的担保之下获得。
Wealthy Chinese eager for a foothold in the United States account for the majority of EB-5 participants. Return on investment is secondary for many Chinese, who tend to focus on the opportunity to enroll their children in state colleges and eventually gain employment in the United States, experts say.
EB-5计划的大多数参与者都是渴望在美国获得立足之地的富裕中国人。专家说，对于许多中国人来说，投资回报率是次要的，他们更关注让孩子进入美国的州立大学，最终在美国就业。
According to a 113-page affidavit filed by the F.B.I. in support of the search warrants, a lawyer identified as “Victoria” and her father, “Tat,” both Chinese citizens, conceived the scheme in 2008, using a business called the California Investment Immigration Fund. They offered wealthy Chinese the opportunity to obtain a green card under the EB-5 visa program by investing in cultural center, hotels and restaurants.
根据联邦调查局为支持搜查令而提交的113页宣誓书，一个名为“维多利亚”(Victoria)的律师和她的父亲“塔特”(Tat)这两名中国公民在2008年利用一家名为“加州投资移民基金”(California Investment Immigration Fund)的企业建构了这个涉案方案。他们为富有的中国人提供机会，通过投资文化中心、酒店和餐馆获得EB-5签证计划的绿卡。
The pair are alleged to have enticed investors by offering them a partial refund of their $500,000-investment. Other times they simply took money from investors, according to the document. None of the projects, which were approved by the United States government, ever got off the ground.
据称，两人向投资者提供50万美元投资的部分退款，以此引诱客户。这份文件称，还有些时候他们只是从投资者那里拿钱。而那些经美国政府批准的项目全都没有得到实施。
For instance, during visits in 2013 and three years later to a vacant building designated for development in the City of Industry outside Los Angeles, investigators found the structure surrounded by a chain-link fence and no active construction. Both times, they encountered a large sign in Chinese and English that read: “CIIF Investment Group” and “Retail Shops for Lease.”
例如，调查人员在2013年和其后三年内访问了洛杉矶市外工业城一处被指定开发的空置楼宇，他们发现，这栋建筑被锁链围栏环绕着，没有进行积极的建设。他们两次探访那里都看到中英文标志，写着：“CIIF投资集团”和“零售店出租”。
A “San Gabriel Valley Chinese Cultural Center,” which the suspects gained approval to develop with EB-5 investor funds, also was never built, according to the affidavit.
根据宣誓书，嫌犯获得许可，以EB-5投资者资金进行开发的“圣加布里埃尔谷华人文化中心”也从未建成。
Participants in the EB-5 program have channeled billions of dollars into construction, the film industry and other sectors in recent years.
EB-5计划的参与者近年来已将数十亿美元投资于建筑业、电影业和其他行业。
The program’s popularity has soared in the last decade. More than 14,000 foreigners applied to make investments in the United States through the program in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2016, compared with 486 in 2006, according to United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the agency that runs the program.
该计划的受欢迎程度在过去十年来出现飙升。执行该计划的美国公民及移民服务局(United States Citizenship and Immigration Services)称，在截至2016年9月30日的财政年度内，已有超过14000名外国人申请通过该计划在美国进行投资，2006年时这一数字为486人。
The program was begun in 1990 to spur job growth in economically depressed regions. But critics say that it benefits richer areas, often in big cities, and that it amounts to putting United States citizenship up for sale. They also point to a litany of fraud cases, which often involve sponsors of EB-5 investments who misappropriated funds from investors and used them for personal enrichment.
该计划始于1990年，目的是为了刺激经济萧条地区的就业增长。但批评人士指出，它往往令大城市中更为富有的地区受益，而且这相当于将美国公民身份挂牌出售。他们还列举了一系列欺诈案件，通常涉及EB-5投资计划的担保者，他们挪用投资者的资金，以增进个人财富。
Republicans and Democrats lawmakers alike agree that the program is ripe for an overhaul, particularly to bolster oversight and to raise the minimum investment required to participate. But legislators from rural and urban areas diverge on how EB-5 funds should be distributed.
共和党和民主党议员都同意，对这一方案进行重新修订的时机已经成熟，特别是需要加强监督，并提高参与该计划所需的最低投资。但是，乡村和城市地区的立法者就EB-5资金如何分配方面存在分歧。
Any change is unlikely to materialize before the program expires on April 28. Instead, it is likely to receive a three- or six-month extension.
在4月28日该方案到期之前，任何变化都不可能实现。相反，它可能会获得三到六个月的延期。