At the Colorado Center for Reproductive Medicine, a popular destination for women hoping to preserve their fertility by freezing their eggs, Dr. William Schoolcraft, the founder and medical director, has started to notice something different: more of the women are arriving with company.
对于那些想要通过冷冻卵子来保持生殖能力的女性来说，科罗拉多生殖医学中心是个常去之地，中心的创始人兼医学主任威廉·斯库尔克莱夫特(William Schoolcraft)近来注意到这里出现了一些异常现象：越来越多的女性来中心时，还有人陪伴在侧。
“I see these patients come in, and they’re with two elderly people, and I’m like, ‘What the hey?’ ” Dr. Schoolcraft said.
斯库尔克莱夫特医生说：“我发现病人来时，旁边还有两个老人陪着，我只能问，‘是谁需要看病？’”
The gray-haired entourages, it turns out, are the parents, tagging along to lend support — emotional and often financial — as their daughters turn to the fledgling field of egg freezing to improve their chances of having children later on, when they are ready to start a family.
后来他发现，那些头发花白的家属是父母，他们来这里是要为女儿提供支持——除了精神上的支持，往往还有经济上的支持，他们的女儿在寻求冷冻卵子这种新生技术帮助，以期在未来自己准备成家立业时，仍然有机会孕育子女。
The technology to freeze a woman’s delicate eggs to be used later, when the eggs being released by her ovaries may no longer be viable, has improved sharply over the past decade. There currently is no single source of data on the number of women who are choosing to freeze their eggs, but doctors in the United States say the practice is slowly growing.
近十年来，冷冻卵子技术出现了迅猛发展，这种技术是先期冷冻女性脆弱的卵子，等到日后她通过卵巢排出的卵子有可能不再具有生殖力时，再拿来使用。目前没有任何关于使用了该技术的妇女总数的数据，但美国的医生们说，这项医学实践正在缓慢增长。
The procedure remains expensive, generally costing between $8,000 and $18,000. And because it offers no guarantees and is still considered experimental by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, a professional association, it can seem to some like an extravagant gamble.
手术费用仍然很昂贵，通常要价在8000到1.8万美元之间。由于医生无法担保效果万无一失，而在专业协会美国生殖医学协会(American Society for Reproductive Medicine)看来，它仍属实验性质，因此看起来有几分像是一场豪赌。
But it is a gamble that many would-be grandparents are willing to take with their daughters, even if it means navigating a potentially uncomfortable conversation.
但这是一场许多准外公准外婆乐意与女儿一起孤注一掷的赌博，哪怕这意味着要发起一场恐怕会让大家都感到难堪的家庭会议。
“By the time Allison was 35, I felt the clock was tick-tick-ticking,” said Candace Kramer, 61, whose daughter took her up on the suggestion to freeze her eggs — and her offer to pay half the bill. “I viewed it as opening up an opportunity for her.”
“当艾丽森到了35岁时，我感觉时钟已经在滴答滴答地在走了，”61岁的坎迪斯·克莱默(Candace Kramer)这样说，她的女儿接受了冷冻卵子的建议，并且同意由母亲支付一半费用。“我认为这是为她保留了一个机会。”
Such arrangements are not unusual, said Dr. Daniel Shapiro, the medical director of Reproductive Biology Associates of Atlanta. He estimated that at least three quarters of his center’s egg-freezing patients — more than 100 over the past two years — have parents who paid part or all of the bill.
亚特兰大生殖生物学协会(Reproductive Biology Associates of Atlanta)医学主任丹尼尔·夏皮罗(Daniel Shapiro)医生说，这类安排并非罕见。过去这两年，有100多位客人来他的中心冷冻卵子，他估计这其中有至少有四分之三都是由父母来支付部分或全部医疗费用的。
“I was surprised at first about the parental involvement, but now I expect it to be the case,” said Dr. Shapiro, adding that many patients tell him, “My parents want me to have this as a gift.”
“刚开始时当我发现有家长参与这件事时，我感到蛮惊讶的，但现在我发现情况通常如此，”夏皮罗医生补充说，很多病人告诉他，“我父母想让我把这看成是他们的礼物。”
His center, along with an offshoot called My Egg Bank North America, are trying to make it easier, and less uncomfortable, for family members to pay for the procedure, marketing the “Gift of Hope”: a gift certificate and a silver charm bracelet for the recipients.
他主管的中心，以及旗下一家名为“北美卵子银行”(My Egg Bank North America)的分支机构正在设法把由亲人代付医疗费这件事变得简单、轻松一些，医院在推广时号称这是“希望的馈赠”：接收礼物的人会收到一份礼品证书和一只银质幸运手链。
Rachel Lehmann-Haupt, author of “In Her Own Sweet Time: Unexpected Adventures in Finding Love, Commitment and Motherhood,” described conversations about fertility between women and their parents as “the postmodern, adult birds-and-the-bees talk.”
《在她自己的甜蜜时光中：寻找爱情、承诺和母性的意外历险》(In Her Own Sweet Time: Unexpected Adventures in Finding Love, Commitment and Motherhood)一书作者蕾切尔·莱曼-赫普特(Rachel Lehmann-Haupt)描述说，这些女性与父母间进行的关于生育的对话，就像是“后现代的成人性启蒙对谈。”
She added, “There is a very fine line between concern and pressure.”
她补充说，“父母给予的关心与施加的压力间，只有一条非常微妙的界线。”
Gloria Hayes, who lives in Darien, Conn., bit her tongue for months after hearing about egg freezing, hoping that her daughter Jennifer, a restaurateur in Telluride, Colo., would broach the topic herself.
住在康涅狄格州达里安的葛罗瑞娅·海耶斯(Gloria Hayes)在听说了冷冻卵子技术后，憋了足足几个月，她希望目前在科罗拉多州泰莱瑞德市开餐馆的女儿詹妮弗(Jennifer)能主动提起这个话题。
“I just didn’t feel right approaching her about it, because it’s almost a criticism in a way — ‘You’re getting old,’ ” Mrs. Hayes said. When Jennifer finally floated the idea, “I was thrilled,” Mrs. Hayes said. “I thought this could just take a lot of the stress off her.”
“我觉得主动跟她说不太好，因为听起来简直有点像是批评她说，‘你的岁数不饶人了，’”海耶斯女士说。当詹妮弗最终自己提出这个想法时，海耶斯女士说：“我喜出望外。我认为这样做，能在很大程度上减轻她的压力。”
Mrs. Hayes and her husband offered to pay for the procedure, but Jennifer Hayes was initially reluctant to accept the money.
海耶斯女士和她丈夫提出要支付全部费用，但詹妮弗起初不愿意接受这笔钱。
“My mom said to me, ‘Do you think we’d rather have this money sitting in an account or have a potential grandchild someday?’ ” she recalled. “When she positioned it that way, it somehow just changed the way I felt.”
她回忆说：“我妈妈当时对我说，‘你觉得，我们是情愿放着这笔钱在银行户头里不动，还是更希望有朝一日有可能抱孙子？’她这样来分析这件事，不知怎么就改变了我的想法。”
“It’s a family decision,” said Ms. Hayes, 36, who now blogs about her experience at RetrieveFreezeRelax.com. “Because you’re talking about your future family. Grandchildren are really important to parents. Everybody wants to experience being a grandparent.”
詹妮弗·海耶斯现年36岁，目前正在RetrieveFreezeRelax.com上写博客记载自己的经历，她说：“这是我们全家人共同做出的决定，因为我们在讨论的是未来的家人。对老人来说孙辈很重要，他们都希望能含饴弄孙。”
Susan Lorman raised the idea of egg freezing when her daughter Stephanie, a sales representative in Los Angeles, was over for dinner shortly before her 35th birthday. Stephanie had just broken up with the latest in a string of boyfriends and was in tears, distraught over what-if situations that involved losing her shot at motherhood.
苏珊·洛曼(Susan Lorman)是在女儿斯蒂芬妮(Stephanie)回家吃饭时提及了冷冻卵子的想法，斯蒂芬妮在洛杉矶做销售代表，当时即将年满35岁，她那会儿刚刚与新交的男友又分了手，一连串的恋爱始终以失败告终，这让她焦虑万分，瞻前顾后，其中一个担心就是不知道自己是否还会有当母亲的机会。
“I thought no, no, no, I’m going to give it one more year,” Stephanie said. But on the eve of her 36th birthday, Stephanie took her mother up on her suggestion and called a fertility doctor, David Tourgeman, whom she had met at the gym.
“当时我想，不行，不行，还不行，我得再等一年看看，”斯蒂芬妮说。但是到了即将年满36岁时，斯蒂芬妮接受了母亲的建议，联系了她在健身房里认识的生殖专科医生大卫·图格曼(David Tourgeman)。
“It was a gift of love,” Mrs. Lorman said. “I’d had my kids at 22, and here she is, a healthy, beautiful young woman who felt her years were passing her by.”
“这是一份爱的礼物，”洛曼女士说。“我在22岁的年纪就已经做了母亲，而现在我的女儿，一个健康、漂亮的年轻女人，却在担心自己的黄金期已经一点点流逝。”
When Brigitte Adams, a San Francisco marketing consultant, brought up the idea of freezing her eggs to her parents, her father quickly approved. So quickly that, for a moment, Ms. Adams felt stung.
当在旧金山做市场顾问的布里吉特·亚当斯(Brigitte Adams)向父母提出了冷冻自己卵子的想法时，她的父亲立马投了赞成票。他同意得未免太快了点，有一小会儿，亚当斯女士甚至感觉受了点伤。
“It was a little degree of shock,” she said. “This is actually real if they’re pushing me towards this,” she recalled thinking at the time.
“我觉得自己感觉有点震惊，”她说。“简直像是他们硬逼着我去做这件事。”她这样回忆当时的想法。
Ms. Adams, who is 39, said she felt “this incredible calmness” after freezing her eggs. “No longer was I under such pressure that the next guy I dated would be daddy material,” she said.
布里吉特·亚当斯现年39岁，她说在冷冻了自己的卵子后，感觉“极为平静。”她说：“我再也不会面临那么大的压力，希望我的下一个交往对象一定得是当爹的料了。”
Her parents not only paid half the cost of the procedure but also invested in Ms. Adams’s new venture: Eggsurance.com, a Web site about egg freezing.
她的父母不仅承担了一半医药费，还向她的新公司投资，这是一家与冷冻卵子有关的网站，名为Eggsurance.com。
As the technology has evolved, more fertility clinics across the country have begun offering egg freezing to two groups: women preparing to undergo cancer treatment, which can affect fertility, and those seeking to expand their window for childbearing.
随着这项技术的发展，美国有更多生殖诊所开始向两类妇女提供冷冻卵子服务：一类是准备开始接受癌症治疗的女性，相关治疗有可能影响她们的生育能力；还有一类则是寻求增加生育机会的女性。
The Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology, a professional group, has begun collecting data on how many women freeze their eggs, but it is not yet available.
专业组织“美国辅助生殖技术协会”(Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology)已经开始收集数据，了解目前有多少女性冷冻了卵子，不过这项工作尚未完成。
The number of babies born from frozen eggs is not tracked. Some experts put the figure at more than 2,000 worldwide, many from donor eggs.
现在也无法追踪有多少婴儿是缘于这项技术才得以出生。一些专家估计全球范围内应该已有超过2000例，其中有不少来自捐献卵子。
The American Society for Reproductive Medicine’s experimental label is under review; some fertility professionals say that removing the label could prompt a surge of interest.
美国生殖医学协会正在评估是否可以将贴在这项技术上的“实验”标签去掉，一些生殖学专业人士说，去掉这个标签可以激发人们的兴趣。
Still, there are doctors who caution that egg freezing can provide a false sense of security: What if a patient pays to freeze her eggs at 34, only to discover that she is unable to get pregnant with them in her 40s?
但是，仍有医生提醒说，冷冻卵子可能会制造一种不切实际的安全感：如果一个患者是在34岁时花钱冷冻了自己的卵子，可却在40多岁时才发现，靠这些卵子她无法怀孕，这该怎么办？
Such risks, though, can seem less weighty to patients when their parents share the cost.
不过，对于那些有家长帮忙付医疗费的病人来说，这类风险看来就显得不是那么沉重了。
Amy West, 37, a psychologist in Chicago, said that she could have afforded the $7,600 bill to freeze her eggs, but that with her parents paying $5,000, “it somehow didn’t feel like as scary an investment.”
在芝加哥作心理医生的艾米·韦斯特(Amy West)现年37岁，她说她原本也花得起7600美元来冷冻自己的卵子，但在父母替她付了5000美元后，“这笔款项不知怎的就感觉不那么骇人了。”
In November, Ms. West’s mother, father and brother flew in from Washington for the egg retrieval, which followed days of hormone injections.
11月，韦斯特的父母和哥哥专程从华盛顿飞来，陪她做取卵子手术，此前她曾接受过几天荷尔蒙注射。
Even Ms. West’s mother, an international environmental and human rights lawyer, whom Ms. West described as “very career oriented” and “not the type to nag,” could not resist a joke after hearing how many of her daughter’s eggs had been successfully frozen.
韦斯特的妈妈是个国际环境法与人权律师，用艾米·韦斯特的原话来形容，她“以事业为重”、“不是那种婆婆妈妈的人”，可就连她听说女儿有多少枚卵子被成功冷冻后，也忍不住开了个玩笑。
“I have 26 grandbabies!” she exclaimed.
“我要有26个外孙了！”她这样惊呼道。