WASHINGTON — In a remarkable reversal of national security policy formed after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the Senate voted on Tuesday to curtail the federal government’s sweeping surveillance of American phone records, sending the legislation to President Obama’s desk for his signature.
华盛顿——周二，参议院投票决定限制联邦政府对美国人通话记录的大规模监控，将这份法案交到了奥巴马总统的办公桌上，等待他的签署。这是对9·11恐怖袭击后形成的美国国家安全政策的重大调整。
The passage of the measure, achieved after a vigorous debate on the Senate floor, will lead to the reinstatement of government surveillance efforts that were blacked out on Monday after Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, blocked their extension.
这个经过了参议院激烈辩论之后通过的行动，将恢复周一失效的部分政府监控计划。此前，肯塔基州共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)曾阻挠这些行动的延期。
The vote was a rebuke to Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, as lawmakers beat back a series of amendments that he sought that would have rolled back proposed controls on government spying.
这次投票结果与多数党领袖、肯塔基州共和党参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)的愿望相悖，因为议员们否绝了他提出的一系列修订案，麦康奈尔原本希望，这些修订案能够击退限制政府监控行为的提案。
Mr. McConnell took the Senate floor to give a speech unusual in its timing and tenacity before the final vote on the bill, which he cast with derision. The new law, he said, would “take one more tool away from those who defend our country every day.”
在最后的投票前，麦康奈尔在参议院发表了一篇时机和强度都不同寻常的演讲。他说，这部新的法律，将“从那些每天捍卫我们国家的人手中夺走又一个工具”。
The vote was held after members of the House starkly warned that they would not accept any changes to the law, setting off an unusual stalemate between House Speaker John A. Boehner and Mr. McConnell.
投票前，众议院的成员明确警告说，他们不会接受对该法案的任何改变，这引发了众议院议长约翰·A·博纳和麦康奈尔之间的罕见对峙。
President Obama said on Twitter that he would sign the bill when it comes to his desk.
奥巴马在Twitter上说，他拿到这份法案之后将会签字。
“Glad the Senate finally passed the USA Freedom Act,” he wrote on the @POTUS Twitter account. “It protects civil liberties and our national security. I’ll sign it as soon as I get it.”
“很高兴参议院最终通过了《美国自由法案》，”他通过Twitter上的@POTUS账户写道。“它保护了公民自由和我们的国家安全。我拿到之后会立即签署。”
Especially contentious was a push to strike a provision in the House-passed U.S.A. Freedom Act that would declassify some significant opinions by the secret national security surveillance court. Mr. McConnell has played down the significance of that provision, calling the changes “discreet and sensible.”
麦康奈尔力求删掉众议院通过的《美国自由法案》(U.S.A. Freedom Act)中一项条款，这一做法尤其引发了争议。该条款将解密国家安全监控秘密法庭的一些重要观点。麦康奈尔弱化了这一条款的重要性，称改变是“审慎合理的”。