WASHINGTON — The House on Thursday narrowly approved a bill to repeal and replace major parts of the health care law, as Republicans recovered from their earlier failures and moved a step closer to delivering their promise to reshape U.S. health care without mandated insurance coverage.
华盛顿——随着共和党人从早先的失败中恢复过来，进一步向着在不推行强制保险的前提下重塑美国医疗的承诺努力，周四，众议院以微弱优势批准了一项法案，旨在废除和取代医疗保健法的主要部分。
The vote, 217-213, on President Donald Trump’s 105th day in office, keeps alive the Republican dream to unwind the signature legislative achievement of former President Barack Obama. The House measure faces profound uncertainty in the Senate, where the legislation’s steep spending cuts will almost certainly be moderated. Any legislation that can get through the Senate will again have to clear the House and its conservative majority.
在唐纳德·特朗普总统就任第105天，这个表决以217赞同213反对的结果通过，这意味着，推翻前总统奥巴马的代表性立法成就这个共和党人的梦想依然有希望成真。法案在众议院通过之后，将在参议院却面临着重大的不确定性，它要求的大幅度削减支出几乎肯定会变得缓和。而任何可以在参议院通过的立法，都需要再次得到众议院及其保守派多数党的认可。
Speaker Paul Ryan of Wisconsin closed the debate saying that a continuation of the health care law would be intolerable. “It means even higher premiums, even fewer choices, even more insurance companies pulling out, even more uncertainty and even more chaos,” he said.
来自威斯康星州的议长保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)在辩论总结陈词中说，医疗保健法的延续将是不可接受的。“这意味着更高的保费，更少的选择，更多的保险公司撤出医保业务，更多的不确定性和更多的混乱，”他说。
“What protection is Obamacare if there is no health care plan to purchase in your state?” Ryan asked.
“如果你所在的州没有医疗保健计划可供购买，那么奥巴马医改(Obamacare)能给你带来什么保障？”瑞安反问道。
Democrats vowed to make Republicans pay a high political price for pushing such unpopular legislation. Twenty Republicans crossed the aisle to vote against the bill, which, like the health care law itself, passed without any votes from the minority party. As Republicans crossed 217 votes, Democrats heckled them with “Nah nah nah nah, hey hey hey, goodbye.”
民主党人发誓要让共和党人为推动这种不受欢迎的立法付出高昂的政治代价。另有20名共和党人也反对这项法案，就像医疗法案本身一样，它在没有得到任何少数党支持的情况下获得通过。共和党人的票数超过217票时，民主党人唱起“呐呐呐呐，嘿嘿嘿，再见”来起哄。
The House bill would eliminate tax penalties for people who go without health insurance. It would roll back state-by-state expansions of Medicaid, which covered millions of low-income Americans.
众议院法案将取消对没有健康保险的人的税收惩罚。它还会撤销医疗补助计划(Medicaid)的逐州扩张，该计划覆盖了数以百万计的低收入美国人。
In place of government-subsidized insurance policies offered exclusively on the health care law’s marketplaces, the bill would offer tax credits of $2,000 to $4,000 a year, depending mainly on age. A family could receive up to $14,000 a year in credits. The credits would be reduced for individuals making over $75,000 a year and families making over $150,000.
该法案将每年提供2000至4000美元的税收抵免，取代之前只在医疗保险法市场上提供的政府补贴保险单；税收抵免的多少主要取决于年龄。一个家庭每年最多可以获得1.4万美元的抵免。对于每年收入超过7.5万美元的个人，以及年入15万美元以上的家庭，抵免额会有所减少。
The vote Thursday shifts the focus over to the Senate, where a number of Republicans have expressed significant concerns over the House plan, including how it would affect states that expanded Medicaid and whether it would drive up premiums for older people.
周四的投票将焦点转移到了参议院，一些共和党参议员对众议院的计划深表忧虑，包括它会如何影响那些扩大了医疗补助计划的州，以及是否会提高老人的保险费。
Democrats are confident that some provisions of the House bill will not comply with special budget rules that Republicans must follow in order to skirt a Senate filibuster.
民主党人相信，在众议院的这项法案中，有一些条款不符合一些特殊预算规则；共和党人要想防止法案在参议院受到阻挠，就必须遵守这些规则。