WASHINGTON — American Special Operations forces mounted a rare raid into eastern Syria early Saturday, killing a leader of the Islamic State and about a dozen militant fighters, as well as capturing his wife and freeing an 18-year-old Yazidi woman whom Pentagon officials said had been held as a slave.
华盛顿——周六凌晨，美国特种作战部队罕见地在叙利亚东部进行了一次突袭行动，击毙了伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的一名领导人和十几名武装分子，俘获了该领导人的妻子，并释放了一名18岁的雅兹迪女性。五角大楼的官员称，这名女孩被作为奴隶囚禁在那里。
In the first successful raid by American ground troops since the military campaign against the Islamic State began last year, two dozen Delta Force commandos entered Syria aboard Black Hawk helicopters and V-22 Ospreys and killed the leader, a man known as Abu Sayyaf. One American military official described him as the Islamic State’s “emir of oil and gas.”
这是自去年对伊斯兰国的军事行动开始以来，由美国地面部队开展的首次成功突袭。在此次行动中，二十几名三角洲部队(Delta Force)突击队员乘坐黑鹰直升机(Black Hawk)和V-22鱼鹰式倾转旋翼机(V-22 Osprey)潜入叙利亚境内，杀死了这个名叫阿布·沙耶夫(Abu Sayyaf)的领导人。一名美国军事官员称，此人是伊斯兰国的“油气埃米尔”。
Even so, Abu Sayyaf is a midlevel leader in the organization — one terrorism analyst compared him to Al Capone’s accountant — and likely is replaceable in fairly short order. And the operation, while successful, comes as the Islamic State has been advancing in the Iraqi city of Ramadi, demonstrating that the fight against the Sunni militant group in both Iraq and Syria remains very fluid.
即便如此，阿布·沙耶夫只是该组织的中层领导——一名恐怖主义问题分析人士称，他相当于艾尔·卡彭（Al Capone，上世纪20年代知名的黑帮头目——译注)的会计——可能很快就会有人顶替他的位置。此外，尽管这场行动十分成功，但与此同时，伊斯兰国一直在伊拉克城市拉马迪推进。这显示出，打击这一同时在叙利亚和伊拉克活动的逊尼派激进团体的战局仍不稳定。
Yet the Pentagon’s description of a nighttime raid that found its intended target deep inside Syria without any American troops being wounded or killed illustrates not only the effectiveness of the Delta Force, but of improving American intelligence on shadowy Islamic State leaders.
不过，按照五角大楼的说法，这次夜里的突袭在叙利亚腹地找到了预定目标，且没有任何美军人员伤亡。此番描述不仅展现了三角洲部队的战斗力，也证明了美国在不断改进针对神秘莫测的伊斯兰国领导人的情报工作。
A Defense Department official said Islamic State fighters who defended their building and Abu Sayyaf tried to use women and children as shields, but that the Delta Force commandos “used very precise fire” and “separated the women and children.” The official said the operation involved close “hand-to-hand fighting.” (The accounts of the raid came from military and government officials and could not be immediately verified through independent sources.)
国防部的一名官员称，保卫那栋建筑和阿布·沙耶夫的伊斯兰国武装分子试图用妇孺做人盾，但三角洲部队的突击队员“用非常精准的火力”，“分开了妇女儿童”。这名官员还称，此次行动中出现了近距离的“肉搏战”。（关于本次突袭的描述来自美国军方和政府官员，无法立即通过独立信源核实。）
The American forces eventually entered the building where they found Abu Sayyaf and his wife, known as Umm Sayyaf, in a room together. His spouse was captured and later moved to a military facility in Iraq, officials said.
美军最终得以进入那栋建筑，在一间屋子里找到了阿布·沙耶夫和他的妻子乌姆·沙耶夫(Umm Sayyaf)。官员称，他妻子被俘，并于随后转移至伊拉克境内的一处军事设施。