Adam Cardinal’s wedded life began happily in New Hampshire, where same-sex marriages are legal. It went sour three years later in Florida, where they are not.
亚当·卡迪纳尔(Adam Cardinal)的婚姻生活愉快地始于新罕布什尔州，那里同性婚姻是合法的。三年后这段婚姻在佛罗里达州破裂，在那里，同性婚姻是不合法的。
Mr. Cardinal, who lives in Fort Lauderdale, separated from his husband several months ago. But the couple cannot get a divorce because, in the eyes of Florida officials, their marriage does not exist.
住在劳德岱堡的卡迪纳尔几个月前和他的丈夫分手。但是这对伉俪无法离婚，因为在佛罗里达的官员看来，他们的婚姻是不存在的。
Returning to New Hampshire to sever the bond is not an option either. Although marrying can be accomplished with a brief visit there, a divorce requires residency in the state for at least a year.
回新罕布什尔去斩断这段姻缘也是不可行的。那里可以接受短暂停留的人结婚，但要离婚则必须在该州居住至少一年。
Mr. Cardinal cannot remarry — to do so would make him a bigamist in states like Massachusetts or New York that recognize his previous nuptials. And although he and his husband did not combine their assets, the lack of an official document certifying the end of their marriage carries financial risks.
卡迪纳尔不能再婚——在马萨诸塞或纽约等承认他前段婚姻的州，再婚就意味着犯下重婚罪。另外，虽然他和丈夫没有合并资产，但如果缺乏一份官方认证的离婚文件，他们将面临财务上的风险。
“I didn’t realize this could potentially be an issue, that we couldn’t divorce when we wanted to,” Mr. Cardinal said. “That was really upsetting.”
“我没想到这会成为一个问题，想离婚的时候离不了，”卡迪纳尔说。“这让人很沮丧。”
The Supreme Court’s ruling last week striking down the federal Defense of Marriage Act has been hailed as a victory for gay couples who wish to marry. But it has also offered new hope to people like Mr. Cardinal who are stuck in a marriage they cannot dissolve.
上周最高法院(Supreme Court)的裁决推翻了联邦《捍卫婚姻法案》(Defense of Marriage Act)，希望结婚的同性情侣纷纷欢呼胜利。但同时它也给卡迪纳尔这种被一场婚姻困住的人带去了希望。
“I think that there’s some reason to be optimistic that we might be able to see the end of these statewide marriage bans, which would have lots of positive effects, including being able to free people from relationships they no longer want to be in,” said Elizabeth F. Schwartz, a family law and estate lawyer and gay rights advocate in Miami Beach.
“我认为有理由乐观起来，我们可能会看到这些州内的同性婚姻禁令被废除，这会带来很多积极的影响，包括让人们可以挣脱一段不希望继续下去的关系，”迈阿密海滩的家庭法和财产律师、同性恋权益倡导者伊丽莎白·F·舒瓦茨(Elizabeth F. Schwartz)说。
Ms. Schwartz said that since the ruling, her office had been flooded with calls from clients asking how the decision would affect their chances for divorce. She tells them it might take some time, but the outlook is better than it was.
舒瓦茨说自从最高法院做出裁决后，她的办公室接到大量客户的电话，询问裁决会不会增加他们离婚的可能性。她说这可能还需要一段时间，但前景已经有所改善。
Early studies suggest that same-sex marriages in the United States are no more likely to end in divorce than heterosexual unions. A 2011 study by the Williams Institute, which conducts research on sexual orientation, gender identity law and public policy, found slightly lower divorce rates for same-sex couples, but M. V. Lee Badgett, the institute’s research director, said the rates would probably even out as more people married.
初步研究表明，美国的同性婚姻并不比异性婚配更容易以离婚收场。从事性取向、性别身份法律和公共政策研究的威廉斯研究所(Williams Institute)在2011年的一次研究中发现，同性伉俪的离婚率略低一些，但该所的研究主任M·V·李·巴吉特(M. V. Lee Badgett)说，等到更多的同性恋者可以结婚时，这个比例可能会升至持平。
Stephanie Coontz, a professor of family history at Evergreen State College in Washington State and an expert on marriage, said a breakup could be far more damaging without legal guidelines.
华盛顿州的常青州立学院(Evergreen State College)家庭史教授、婚姻专家史蒂芬妮·库恩兹(Stephanie Coontz)说，没有法律引导的离异会更具破坏性。
“Divorce makes people crazy,” she said, “and if there are not clear exit rules and support systems for those exit rules, divorces, when they occur, can get very bad.”
“离婚令人发狂，”她说，“如果没有清晰的退出规则以及相关的支持体系，一旦出现离婚，情况会很糟糕。”
The legalization of same-sex marriage in a dozen states in recent years led to a flood of weddings, many of them involving couples from states where such unions are still forbidden. Like newlyweds everywhere, most gave little thought to the prospect of divorce.
近年来，有十几个州实施了同性婚姻合法化，随之而来的是大批婚礼的举行，其中很多情侣来自禁止同性婚姻的州。和所有新婚燕尔的人一样，他们大都没怎么想过离婚的情形。
“You think, ‘This is perfect, this is great, I never have to worry about anything,’ and it’s only in retrospect that you sit back and say, ‘I shouldn’t have done that,’ ” said a woman who lives in Florida but married in Connecticut. She insisted on anonymity because she did not want to jeopardize her chances of eventually obtaining a divorce.
“你会觉得，‘这太完美了，太棒了，没什么可担心的，’只有事后你才会去回想‘我不该那么做的’，”一位住在佛罗里达、但在康涅狄格州结婚的女性说。因为担心影响她获准离婚的机会，她坚持在本文中匿名。
Even when same-sex couples divorce in states that recognize their marriages, the process is often more complex than for heterosexual couples. The Supreme Court’s decision may correct some of those inequities — the division of retirement funds and tax deductions for alimony payments, for example. Peter Zupcofska, a family law and divorce lawyer who practices in Massachusetts and New York, said that in light of the court’s decision, married couples living in states where they can divorce “really should look at estate planning documents and prenuptial agreements,” because federal regulations governing the division of assets may now apply. 
即便在认可同性婚姻的州，同性伉俪的离婚手续也远比异性婚姻复杂。此次的高等法院裁决可能会纠正一些不平等因素——比如退休金和赡养费支付减税的分割。在马萨诸塞州和纽约执业的家庭法和离婚律师彼得·扎普科夫斯卡(Peter Zupcofska)说，在法院做出这个裁决后，生活在可离婚州的已婚者“非常有必要考虑一下财产规划文件和婚前协议”，因为管理资产分割的联邦法规现在可能适用了。
But discrepancies are likely to remain, he and other lawyers said. One example is that although many same-sex couples have lived together for years or decades before marrying, assets in most states are considered divisible only if they were acquired after marriage. For couples with children, difficulties can arise if they have not been legally adopted by the nonbiological parent.
但他与其他一些律师说，差异可能会继续下去。一个例子是，许多同性伉俪婚前已经在一起生活了几年甚至几十年，但多数州认定，只有在婚后获得的资产才是可以分割的。如果有孩子，且并非由非生身父母通过合法手段领养，那么离婚还会更困难。
Some same-sex couples have been startled to find their divorces as politicized as their efforts to marry. In Texas, two same-sex couples who sought to divorce met with fierce opposition from the state’s attorney general, Greg Abbott. Both cases have been appealed to the State Supreme Court and are awaiting decisions on whether they will be heard.
一些同性伉俪吃惊地发现，他们的离婚之路，跟他们争取结婚权一样充满政治色彩。在德克萨斯，两对希望离婚的同性伉俪遭到州检察长格雷格·阿伯特(Greg Abbott)的强烈反对。两宗案子都已经上诉到州最高法院，正在等待法院决定是否听诉。