The Obama administration’s decision last week to close nearly two dozen diplomatic missions and issue a worldwide travel alert resulted from intercepted electronic communications in which the head of Al Qaeda in Pakistan ordered the leader of its affiliate in Yemen, the terrorist organization’s most lethal branch, to carry out an attack as early as this past Sunday, according to American officials.
据美国官员透露，奥巴马政府之所以上周决定关闭20多个外交使馆，并且发布全球旅游警报，原因是截获的电子通讯记录显示，巴基斯坦基地组织(Al Qaeda)的首领命令其也门分支机构——该恐怖组织最具杀伤力的分支——的领导人最早在上周日发动袭击。
The intercepted conversations last week between Ayman al-Zawahri, who succeeded Osama bin Laden as the head of the global terrorist group, and Nasser al-Wuhayshi, the head of the Yemen-based Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, revealed one of the most serious plots against American and other Western interests since the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, American intelligence officials and lawmakers have said.
美国的一些情报官员及议员表示，上周截获的艾曼·扎瓦赫里(Ayman al Zawahri)与纳赛尔·乌海什(Nasser al-Wuhayshi)的对话揭露了自2001年9月11日恐怖袭击以来针对美国及其他西方国家利益的最重大的袭击阴谋。扎瓦赫里继奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)之后成为了该全球恐怖组织的首领，乌海什则是总部位于也门的基地组织阿拉伯半岛分支机构的头目。
It is highly unusual for senior Qaeda leaders in Pakistan to discuss operational matters with the group’s affiliates, so when the intercepts between the two senior Qaeda leaders were collected and analyzed last week, senior officials at the C.I.A., the State Department and the White House immediately seized on their significance. Members of Congress were quickly provided classified briefings on the matter, American officials said.
巴基斯坦基地组织高级领导人极少与其分支机构探讨行动事宜，因此，上周截获并分析两名基地组织高级领导人的对话信息之时，中央情报局(CIA)、国务院(State Department)及白宫(White House)的高级官员立即认识到了事情的重要性。美国官员表示，国会(Congress)议员很快就获得了有关此事的机密简报。
“This was significant because it was the big guys talking, and talking about very specific timing for an attack or attacks,” said one American official who had been briefed on the intelligence reports in recent days.
一名近日获悉情报报告的美国官员表示，“这件事情非常重要，因为这是大人物之间的交谈，讨论的又是一次或多次袭击的具体时间。”
The identities of the two Qaeda leaders whose discussions were monitored and the imminent nature of the suspected plot — in the intercepts, the terrorists mentioned Sunday as the day that the attacks were to take place — help explain why the United States, as well as other Western governments, have taken such extraordinary precautionary steps in the past few days to close embassies and consulates in the Middle East and North Africa.
截获的情报说明，恐怖分子提到的袭击时间是上周日。对话受到监控的两名基地组织头目的身份，以及这个可疑阴谋的紧迫性，都有助于解释，美国及其他西方国家的政府为什么在过去几天里采取此类非同寻常的预防措施，关闭驻中东及北非的使领馆。
But the intercepts were frustrating in that they did not reveal the specific location or target of the attacks, American officials said.
但美国官员表示，截获的情报令人沮丧，因为它们没有透露袭击的具体地点及目标。
In an article posted on the Web on Friday and published on Saturday, the identities of the Qaeda leaders whose conversations were intercepted were witheld by The New York Times at the request of senior American intelligence officials. The names were disclosed Sunday by McClatchy Newspapers, and after the government became aware of the article, it dropped its objections to The Times’s publishing the same information.
应美国高级情报官员的要求，在周五上传至网站、周六见报的一篇文章中，《纽约时报》没有透露对话遭受监听的基地组织头目的身份。麦克拉齐报(McClatchy Newspapers)则于周日公布了基地组织头目的姓名。发现这篇文章之后，政府不再阻止《纽约时报》公开同样的信息。
The State Department said Sunday that it was extending the closing of 19 diplomatic posts in the Middle East and North Africa through at least next Saturday because of continued fears of an imminent attack. Several European countries have also closed embassies in the Middle East.
国务院于周日表示，出于对临近袭击的持续担忧，国务院将中东及北非19个外交人员驻地的关闭时间至少延长至本周六。几个欧洲国家也关闭了驻中东的使馆。
A State Department spokesman said that the closings were not the result of new threat intelligence, but “merely an indication of our commitment to exercise caution and take appropriate steps to protect our employees and visitors to our facilities.”
国务院的一名发言人表示，关闭使领馆不是因为新的威胁情报，“只是表明我们履行承诺，小心行事，采取适当举措来保护我们的员工及使领馆的访客。”
The embassies that will be closed include the ones in Yemen, Libya, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, the statement said. The American Embassy in Pakistan has remained open, even though the Qaeda threat that shuttered many other diplomatic missions emanated in part from that country. Still, rumors of an impending militant attack on Islamabad, the capital — and not necessarily on an American target — coursed through diplomatic and security circles last weekend.
国务院声明称，驻也门、利比亚、埃及、沙特阿拉伯和阿拉伯联合酋长国的大使馆都在关闭之列。尽管迫使其他许多使领馆关闭的基地组织威胁部分源自巴基斯坦，该国的美国大使馆却依然开放。尽管如此，上周末，关于巴基斯坦首都伊斯兰堡即将遭受武装袭击，且袭击不一定针对美国的传闻在外交界和安全界流传甚广。
One Western diplomat, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said his mission had received reports that militant attackers had congregated in the Margalla Hills, which overlook the city. But the diplomat stressed that those reports were unconfirmed, and that while the security situation in the city had tightened, there was little information to suggest an impending assault. Administration officials and intelligence analysts said on Monday they had no new information on the terrorist threats.
一名要求匿名的西方外交官表示，他所在的使馆收到报告，称武装袭击者已集结在俯视伊斯兰堡市的马加拉山区(Margalla Hills)。但这名外交官强调，这些报告还有待证实，此外，尽管该市的安全形势有所收紧，目前却几乎没有信息表明袭击即将来临。奥巴马政府的官员和情报分析人士周一表示，他们没有关于恐怖威胁的新消息。
“We are going to keep evaluating information as it comes in, keep analyzing the various intelligence that we’re getting in in regards to this stream,” said a State Department spokeswoman, Marie Harf. "Over all, what we are doing is taking precautionary steps out of an abundance of caution to protect our people and our facilities and visitors to those facilities overseas."
“我们会持续评估获得的信息，持续分析我们正在收集的各种与此有关的情报，”国务院发言人玛丽·哈尔夫(Marie Harf)说，“总之，我们正在做的事情是，为慎重起见而采取预防措施，保护我们在海外的人民、设施以及那些设施的访客。”
Members of Congress who were briefed on the threat said there was no definitive information on where an attack would occur.
了解相关威胁的一些国会议员称，关于袭击可能发生的地点，目前还没有确切消息。
“The assumption is that it’s probably most likely to happen in the Middle East,” Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York said on Sunday on the ABC News program “This Week.” “But there’s no guarantee of that at all.”
“我们设想袭击最有可能发生在中东，”周日，来自纽约州的共和党众议员彼得·T·金(Peter T. King)在ABC的新闻节目《本周新闻》(This Week)上说，“不过，这个设想完全没有保证。”
“It could basically be in Europe, it could be in the United States, it could be a series of combined attacks,” said Mr. King, who is a member of the House Intelligence Committee.
“大体说来，袭击也可能发生在欧洲或美国，还可能是一系列的连环袭击，”身为众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)成员的金说。
The one aspect of the intelligence that officials appear to agree on is that Al Qaeda’s affiliate in Yemen is behind the plotting.
关于这方面的情报，官员们似乎就一个问题达成了共识，即在幕后操纵这场阴谋的是基地组织在也门的分支。