SEOUL, South Korea — The United States flew a nuclear-capable B-52 long-distance bomber over South Korea on Sunday in a show of force afterNorth Korea’s fourth nuclear test.
韩国首尔——在朝鲜进行第四次核试验之后，周日，美国派遣一架可进行核打击的B-52远程轰炸机在韩国上空飞过，以此炫示武力。
The bomber, taking off from the United States Air Force base in Guam, arrived over Osan Air Base south of Seoul, the South Korean capital, on Sunday to conduct training missions together with American and South Korean warplanes, both countries’ militaries announced. The bomber returned to Guam after the exercise.
韩美两国军方都宣布，这架轰炸机周日从美国的关岛空军基地起飞，抵达位于韩国首都首尔以南的乌山空军基地(Osan Air Base)，与美国和韩国战机一起开展训练任务。训练结束之后，这架轰炸机返回了关岛。
“This was a demonstration of the ironclad U.S. commitment to our allies in South Korea, in Japan, and to the defense of the American homeland,” Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., commander of the United States Pacific Command, said in a statement. “North Korea’s nuclear test is a blatant violation of its international obligations.”
“这展现了美国对韩日盟友以及本土防卫的坚定承诺，”美国太平洋司令部司令、海军上将小哈里·B·哈里斯(Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr.)在一份声明中说。“朝鲜核试验是对其国际义务的公然违反。”
Washington has often dispatched B-52 and B-2 bombers to South Korea over the years. It usually does not publicize their training missions, but such flyovers by nuclear-capable bombers have always drawn harsh criticism from North Korea.
多年来，华盛顿经常派遣B-52和B-2轰炸机前往韩国。训练任务的消息通常不会公开，但是这些核轰炸机的出动一直遭到朝鲜的严厉批评。
But during military standoffs, as when North Korea raised tensions in early 2013 after its third nuclear test, both Seoul and Washington have made the unusual gesture of announcing their missions to demonstrate the American resolve toward defending South Korea and to help calm jitters there.
但朝鲜在2013年初开展第三次核试验后，局势变得紧张，在这类军事对峙时期，首尔和华盛顿会采取不寻常的姿态，公开这些任务，以展示美国保护韩国，帮助平息该国紧张气氛的决心。
North Korea conducted its fourth underground nuclear test on Wednesday. The country said the device it detonated in the test was a hydrogen bomb, although the claim was received with widespread skepticism. Analysts and officials in the region have said that North Korea may be bluffing or may have detonated a hybrid atomic bomb that it has been suspected of developing. The test on Wednesday is said to have produced an explosion too small to be called that of an H-bomb.
上周三，朝鲜进行了第四次地下核试验。它自称这次试验引爆的是氢弹，不过人们普遍对此存疑。该地区的分析人士和官员表示，朝鲜可能是在虚张声势，或者引爆的可能是它研制出来的混合型原子弹。上周三的试验据说爆炸当量太小，不像是氢弹。
But North Korea’s defiant nuclear test, which took place despite warnings and increasingly tightened sanctions, has rattled the region.
但朝鲜不顾警告和日益严峻的制裁，开展挑衅性核试验的做法，已经造成了该地区的动荡。
Earlier on Sunday, the North’s official Korean Central News Agency reported that its leader, Kim Jong-un, visited the Ministry of People’s Armed Forces and ordered it to increase military readiness. He called the nuclear test a “self-defensive” measure his country had to take in the face of American nuclear threats.
周日早些时候，朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社报道称，该国领导人金正恩视察了人民武装部(Ministry of People’s Armed Forces)，下令加强战备。他宣称核试验是“自卫”措施，面对美国的核威胁，朝鲜不得不采取这样的措施。
“It is the legitimate right of a sovereign state and a fair action that nobody can criticize,” Mr. Kim was reported as saying. His comments came as world powers sought to punish his impoverished, already heavily sanctioned country with a new round of tougher penalties. On Friday, South Korea resumed propaganda broadcasts on loudspeakers on the border, blaring pop music and criticism of Mr. Kim into his isolated country.
“这是一个主权国家应有的权利，一次公正的行动，”报道引述金正恩的话说。在他发表这番言论之际，世界各国正在寻求新一轮更严厉的措施，以惩罚这个已经遭受严厉制裁的贫穷国家。上周五，韩国恢复了边境的高音喇叭宣传广播，朝着这个孤立的国家大声奏响流行音乐，以及对金正恩的批评之词。
Over the weekend, North Korea mobilized a large crowd in Pyongyang, the capital, to celebrate what it called its “H-bomb of justice.” Speaking at the rally, a top North Korean ruling party official said that the South Korean propaganda broadcasts were pushing the Korean Peninsula “toward the brink of war.” The official added that the South was “jealous” of the North’s successful hydrogen bomb test.
上周末，朝鲜在首都平壤兴师动众，庆祝其所说的“正义的氢弹”。在集会上发言时，朝鲜执政党的一位高层官员说，韩国的广播宣传行动，是在推动朝鲜半岛局势“走向战争边缘”。此人还说，韩国“嫉妒”朝鲜的氢弹试验成功。
Brinkmanship and tough talk have been North Korea’s favorite card in dealing with its external foes. Officials in South Korea also suspected that Mr. Kim was using his latest nuclear test to glorify his rule and may further raise tensions to consolidate loyalty at home.
边缘策略和强硬的言论是朝鲜对付外部敌人时最喜欢采取的方式。韩国官员认为，金正恩是在利用最新的核试验来美化自己的统治，而且可能还会进一步加剧紧张局势，来巩固国内的忠诚度。