WASHINGTON — The Senate approved the most fundamental alteration of its rules in more than a generation on Thursday, ending the minority party’s ability to filibuster most presidential nominees in response to the partisan gridlock that has plagued Congress for much of the Obama administration.
华盛顿——本周四，美国参议院批准了三、四十年来最大的一项规则改变，终结了少数党运用拖延战术(filibuster)来阻挠大部分总统提名人选通过的权力，这是为了应对奥巴马执政期间常常困扰国会的党派僵局而做出的。
Furious Republicans accused Democrats of a power grab, warning them that they would deeply regret their action if they lose control of the Senate next year and the White House in years to come. Invoking the Founding Fathers and the meaning of the Constitution, Republicans said Democrats were trampling the minority rights the framers intended to protect. But when the vote was called, Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader who was initially reluctant to force the issue, prevailed 52 to 48.
愤怒的共和党人指责民主党人夺权，并警告说，如果他们明年不再是参议院的多数党，而且今后几年失去了对白宫的控制，他们就会对这种做法后悔。共和党人援引开国元勋的话和《宪法》的意义，说民主党人是在践踏开国元勋们意图保护的少数派权利。但是在投票表决的时候，最初不愿意在这个问题上步步紧逼的参议院多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)以52票对48票的结果获得了胜利。
Under the change, the Senate will be able to cut off debate on executive and judicial branch nominees with a simple majority rather than rounding up a supermajority of 60 votes. The new precedent established by the Senate on Thursday does not apply to Supreme Court nominations or legislation itself.
规则变化之后，参议院无需获得60票的绝对多数票，只需获得简单多数票，就可以中止关于行政和司法部门提名的辩论。这项本周四由参议院制定的开创先河的新规则不适用于最高法院提名或立法机构本身的提名。
It represented the culmination of years of frustration over what Democrats denounced as a Republican campaign to stall the machinery of Congress, stymie President Obama’s agenda, and block his picks to cabinet posts and federal judgeships by insisting that virtually everything the Senate approves must be done by a supermajority.
民主党谴责，共和党坚持参议院批准的几乎任何事项都必须获得绝对多数票，从而阻扰了国会正常运行，为奥巴马总统的议程设置了障碍，并阻止了他提名的内阁和联邦法官人选获得通过，而本次规则变化代表了这种多年来的不满已达到了顶峰。
After repeatedly threatening to change the filibuster, Mr. Reid decided to follow through when Republicans refused this week to back down from their effort to keep Mr. Obama from filling any of three vacancies on the most powerful appeals court in the country.
共和党人全力阻止奥巴马为美国最高上诉法院的三个空缺任命人选，本周仍拒绝让步，于是多次扬言要改变这种拖延战术的里德终于决定要坚持到底。
This was the final straw for some Democratic holdouts against limiting the filibuster, providing Mr. Reid with the votes he needed to impose a new standard certain to reverberate through the Senate for years.
对于那些迟迟不肯赞同对拖延战术加以限制的民主党人来说，这成了最后一根稻草，他们于是为里德提供了通过新标准所需的票数。这个新标准肯定会在今后多年里影响参议院。
“There has been unbelievable, unprecedented obstruction,” Mr. Reid said as he set in motion the steps for the vote on Thursday. “The Senate is a living thing, and to survive it must change as it has over the history of this great country. To the average American, adapting the rules to make the Senate work again is just common sense.”
“参议院出现了前所未有的巨大障碍，”里德在周四启动投票程序时说。“参议院就好像一个有机体，要想继续生存下去，它就必须做出改变，就像它在这个伟大国家的历史上曾做过的那样。调整规则让参议院能正常运行，对于一般美国人而言这不过是个常识。“
Republicans accused Democrats of irreparably damaging the character of an institution that in many ways still operates as it did in the 19th century, and of disregarding the constitutional prerogative of the Senate as a body of “advice and consent” on presidential nominations.
共和党指责民主党不可弥补地损害了参议院的特性，这个机构在许多方面仍然像它在19世纪时那样运作，而且还说民主党无视了宪法赋予参议院对总统提名人选进行“咨询和准许”的特权。
“You think this is in the best interest of the United States Senate and the American people?” asked the Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell, sounding incredulous.
“你以为这符合美国参议院和美国人民的最佳利益吗？”共和党领袖、参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)问道，听上去充满怀疑。
“I say to my friends on the other side of the aisle, you’ll regret this. And you may regret it a lot sooner than you think,” he added.
“我对另一边的朋友说，你们会后悔的，而且会比你以为的要早得多，”他说。
Mr. Obama applauded the Senate’s move. “Today’s pattern of obstruction, it just isn’t normal,” he told reporters at the White House. “It’s not what our founders envisioned. A deliberate and determined effort to obstruct everything, no matter what the merits, just to refight the results of an election is not normal, and for the sake of future generations we can’t let it become normal.”
奥巴马称赞了参议院的这一行动。“如今事事受阻的情况根本就不正常，”他在白宫告诉记者，“这不符合美国开国元勋们的设想。故意而执着阻挠所有事情，完全不管这件事有什么好处，目的只是为了对一场选举结果进行反击，这是不正常的，为了未来美国人的利益考虑，我们不能让它成为常态。”
The changes will apply to all 1,183 executive branch nominations that require Senate confirmation — not just cabinet positions but hundreds of high- and midlevel federal agency jobs and government board seats.
新的规则将适用于需要参议院确认的所有1183个行政部门的提名——不只是内阁职位，而且包括数百个中、高级联邦机构工作岗位和政府委员会席位。
With the filibuster rules now rewritten — the most significant change since the Senate lowered its threshold to break a filibuster from two-thirds of the body to three-fifths, or 60 votes, in 1975 — the Senate can proceed with approving a backlog of presidential nominations.
随着拖延战术规则的改写，参议院现在可以开始审批积压的总统提名了。自从参议院1975年把终止拖延战术的门槛从三分之二的票数要求降至五分之三，即60票以来，这是最大的一次变化。
There are now 59 nominees to executive branch positions and 17 nominees to the federal judiciary awaiting confirmation votes. The Senate acted immediately on Thursday when it voted with just 55 senators affirming to move forward on the nomination of Patricia A. Millett, a Washington lawyer nominated to the Washington appeals court. Two other nominees to that court, Cornelia T. L. Pillard and Robert L. Wilkins, are expected to be confirmed when the Senate returns from its Thanksgiving recess next month.
现在有59个行政部门职位的任命和17个联邦司法部门职位的任命等待确认。本周四，参议院立即采取行动，在仅有55名参议员投赞成票的情况下，决定择期表决华盛顿律师帕特里夏·A·米利特(Patricia A. Millett)就任华盛顿上诉法院法官的提名。该法院的其他两项提名，科妮莉亚·T·L·皮拉德(Cornelia T. L. Pillard)和罗伯特·L·威尔金斯(Robert L. Wilkins)，预计也可在参议院下个月感恩节休会结束后获得通过。
The filibuster has frustrated presidents and majority parties since the early days of the republic. Over the years, and almost always after the minority had made excessive use of it, the Senate has adjusted the rules. Until 1917, the year Woodrow Wilson derided the Senate as “a little group of willful men” that had rendered the government helpless through blocking everything in front of it, there was no rule to end debate. From 1917 to 1975, the bar for cutting off debate was set at two-thirds of the Senate.
自从美国成立之初，拖延战术就一直让总统和多数党头痛。多年以来，参议院已经对其规则进行了一些调整，几乎每次都是在少数党过度使用它之后。1917年，伍德罗·威尔逊(Woodrow Wilson)嘲笑参议院是“一小群任性的人”，阻挠它面前的所有东西，从而令政府陷入无助。在这以前，没有任何规则可以终止辩论。从1917年到1975年，参议院终止辩论的规则是获得三分之二的票数。
Some would go even further than Thursday’s action. Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, said that he would like to see the next fight on the filibuster to be to require senators to actually stand on the floor and talk if they wanted to stall legislation.
有些人甚至想在周四的行动上更进一步。俄勒冈州民主党参议员杰夫·梅尔克利(Jeff Merkley)说，他想看到针对拖延战术的下一场较量会要求参议员真正站到议会会场里，如果他们想要阻止立法就来阐明他们的观点。
The historic nature of the vote was not lost on senators. The gravity of the situation was reflected in an unusual scene on the Senate floor: Nearly all 100 senators were in their seats, rapt, as their two leaders debated.
参议员们很清楚这次投票表决的历史意义。情况的严重性反映在参议院会场上不同寻常的一幕：100名参议员几乎悉数坐在自己的座位上，全神贯注地看着两位领袖的辩论。
As the two men went back and forth, Mr. McConnell appeared to realize there was no way to persuade Mr. Reid to change his mind. As many Democrats wore large grins, Republicans looked dour as they lost on a futile, last-ditch parliamentary attempt by Mr. McConnell to overrule the majority vote.
几个回合下来，麦康奈尔似乎意识到没有办法说服里德改变主意。他试图推翻新多数票规则的最后努力徒劳无功，令很多民主党人面露笑容，而共和党人则因失败而表情阴郁。
When Mr. McConnell left the chamber, he said, “I think it’s a time to be sad about what’s been done to the United States Senate.”
离开会议厅的时候，麦康奈尔说，“我认为，现在是为美国参议院发生的事情感到悲哀的时候。”