WASHINGTON — Millions of Americans will begin receiving health insurance coverage under the Affordable Care Act on Wednesday after years of contention and a rollout hobbled by delays and technical problems. The decisively new moment in the effort to overhaul the country’s health care system will test the law’s central premise: that extending coverage to far more Americans will improve the nation’s health and help many avoid crippling medical bills.
华盛顿——根据《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)，数百万美国人将从周三起享受医保。此事经过了多年的争论，并且还因为延期和技术问题使其实施从一开始就步履蹒跚。在改革美国医疗体系的过程中，这具有关键意义的新时刻将考验这部法律的核心前提：大幅扩大美国的医保覆盖将改善这个国家的健康状况，并帮助许多美国人避免被巨大的医疗账单压垮。
Starting Wednesday, health insurance companies can no longer deny coverage to people with pre-existing conditions and cannot charge higher premiums to women than to men for the same coverage. In most cases, insurers must provide a standard set of benefits prescribed by federal law and regulations. And they cannot set dollar limits on what they spend on “essential health benefits” for a policyholder.
从周三开始，医疗保险公司再也不能拒绝为已存在健康问题的个人承保，也不能就同样的保险计划，向女性收取更高的保费。在多数情况下，承保方必须提供一套由联邦法律和法规所约定的保险金标准。它们在为投保人支付的“核心健康保险金”上不得设置金额限制。
Though this is a milestone for the law, it is unlikely to end the constant partisan battles that began even before its passage nearly four years ago. Late Tuesday, Justice Sonia Sotomayor temporarily blocked the Obama administration from forcing some religious-affiliated groups to provide coverage of birth control or face penalties.
这是医保法案推进中的一个里程碑，但它不太可能就此终结持续的党派之争，这场争斗在将近四年前法案获通过以前就在进行了。奥巴马政府向一些宗教相关的组织施压，要求它们或提供节育保险，或支付罚金。而周二晚间，大法官索尼娅·索托马约尔(Sonia Sotomayor)暂时阻止了奥巴马政府的这一举措。
Doctors, hospitals and pharmacists say consumers could initially experience some delays and difficulties as they try to use their new insurance.
医生、医院和药剂师表示，投保人一开始使用他们的新医保时，可能会遭遇延迟和困难。
“I feel a huge sense of relief,” said Katie R. Norvell, 33, a music therapist in St. Louis, who has been uninsured for three and a half years and has a pre-existing gynecological condition, endometriosis. She signed up Dec. 22 for a midlevel silver plan offered by Coventry Health Care, owned by Aetna, and has already begun making doctor’s appointments.
“我感到大大地松了一口气，”圣路易斯33岁的音乐治疗师凯蒂·R·诺维尔(Katie R. Norvell)说。她已经三年半没有参保，患有一种叫作子宫内膜异位症的妇科疾病。12月22日，她向安泰保险(Aetna)所有的考文垂医疗保健公司(Coventry Health Care)投保了一份中等标准的银质计划，已经开始在与医生预约看诊时间。
“With coverage,” she said, “I can be my best self. Health insurance won’t control my job choices.”
“有了医疗保险，”她说，“我可以达到最佳状态。医疗保险也不会左右我对工作的选择。”
A series of last-minute changes in rules and deadlines for people to sign up and pay premiums have left less time for insurers to activate coverage and issue identification cards, adding to the uncertainty caused by the troubled rollout of the health exchange.
有许多针对个人投保和支付保险费的规则和时限做出的调整是最后关头做出的，这让承保人没有太多时间启动保险和发放身份证明。医保交易所推出过程中遭遇了种种问题，更为医改的未来增加了不确定性。
“There will be a lot of confusion,” said Brian D. Caswell, a former president of the Kansas Pharmacists Association, who owns a drugstore in rural Baxter Springs. “Many people will get insurance cards, but will not have a clue what’s covered, what’s not covered and what they are supposed to pay.”
“将会出现很多混乱，”堪萨斯药剂师协会(Kansas Pharmacists Association)前会长布赖恩·D·卡斯韦尔(Brian D. Caswell)说。他在巴克斯特斯普林斯乡下开着一家药店。“许多人都会拿到医保卡，但并不知道哪些是保险覆盖的，哪些是不覆盖的，要由他们自付。”
Others may find their insurance companies have no record of their enrollment because the information was not sent by the online marketplaces where they signed up for coverage. Some of the newly insured may have trouble finding doctors who accept their health plans, many of which are restricting the number of providers in their networks to hold down premium costs.
还有一些人可能会发现，他们的保险公司还没有他们登记的记录，因为他们投保的在线交易平台没有将相关信息发送给保险公司。一些新参保的人可能会很难找到接受他们医保计划的医生，因为许多保单会限制投保人可去的医疗机构的数量，从而压低保费。
And as newly insured consumers sort through details of their coverage, others will find that they are no longer insured by their old plans, which were canceled or discontinued because they did not comply with coverage requirements of the law. Of several million who received cancellation notices, most should be able to obtain other coverage, the Obama administration says.
在新参保人仔细研读他们保单的详情时，其他人会发现他们的旧保单因为不符合医保法的覆盖要求或被取消、或被中断，他们已不再受这些保险计划的保障了。奥巴马政府表示，在几百万收到取消通知的人中，大多数应该能获得其他的保险覆盖。
Subscribers will be entitled to coverage starting Wednesday if they pay the first month’s premium by the due date, Jan. 10 for many insurers.
投保人如果在截止日期前支付了第一个月的保费，他们就可以从周三开始享受保险。许多承保人规定截止日期为1月10日。
Ana Yngelmo, a 37-year-old immigration lawyer in Kearny, N.J., said she would use her new insurance to start seeing a primary care doctor and to get her first mammogram. Ms. Yngelmo, who said she had been uninsured for 16 months, chose a platinum plan with generous coverage and no deductible. She qualified for a tax-credit subsidy that will lower her monthly premium to $350 — still expensive, she said, but worth it for peace of mind.
新泽西州卡尼37岁的移民律师安娜·英格尔莫(Ana Yngelmo)表示，有了新保险，她将开始去看初级保健医生，拍她第一张乳房X线照片。英格尔莫说她已经16个月未参保，这次选择了一项覆盖程度极广、没有免赔额的白金计划。她有资格享受一项税收减免补贴，这会让她每个月的保费降低到350美元（约合2100元人民币）。她说，这依然很高，但花钱买个安心也值得。
“For me, insurance is about those tragic situations where you need some terrible surgery or get cancer,” said Ms. Yngelmo, who recently started her own law practice. “I just want to make sure that in those situations, I can go to whichever doctor I want and it will be covered.”
“对我来说，保险主要就是用在那些悲惨的时刻，需要做大手术或得了癌症，”开始法律执业不久的英格尔莫说。“我就是想要确保，在这些情况下，我可以想去看哪个医生就去看哪个，费用能得到偿付。”
In some states, doctors are preparing for an influx of newly insured patients. Dr. Michael J. Pramenko, a family doctor who is executive director of Primary Care Partners in Grand Junction, Colo., said his group had opened a satellite clinic, added several doctors and extended office hours in the expectation that “we will be seeing more patients.”
在一些州，医生们正在准备应对纷至沓来的新承保病人。家庭医生、科罗拉多州大章克申初级护理合伙人公司(Primary Care Partners)的执行董事迈克尔·J·普拉门科(Michael J. Pramenko)博士表示，由于预计到“我们会接到更多的病人”，他所在的医疗机构已经开设了一家附属诊所，增加了几名医生，也延长了工作时间。
Cynthia Taueg, a vice president of the St. John Providence Health System in Warren, Mich., near Detroit, said she expected a gradual increase in patients because “a majority of the uninsured in our service area will be eligible for Medicaid” or for subsidized private insurance through the exchange.
离底特律不远的密歇根州沃伦市的圣约翰普罗维登斯健康系统(St. John Providence Health System)副总裁辛西娅·陶格(Cynthia Taueg)说，她预计病人会慢慢增加，因为“我们服务区域内的多数未参保人将有资格享受联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)”，或通过医保交易所得到受补贴的私人保险。
Scott Keefer, a vice president of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, voiced a concern expressed by many insurers: Some consumers will go to doctors, hospitals and drugstores believing they have enrolled in a health plan, only to find that the company has no record of them.
明尼苏达蓝十字蓝盾(Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota)副总裁斯科特·基弗(Scott Keefer)表达了许多承保人的担忧：许多投保人以为他们已经加入了保险计划，但是到了医生、医院和药房才发现，保险公司根本没有他们的记录。
Peter V. Lee, the executive director of California’s insurance exchange, said that while logistical problems would surely pop up, they would matter less and less as people started using their benefits.
加利福尼亚保险交易所执行董事彼得·V·李(Peter V. Lee)表示，后勤方面的问题肯定会出现，但随着人们开始使用他们的保险金，这些问题会越来越不重要。
But John G. Lee, an insurance agent in Fredericksburg, Va., said that health insurance was a complicated product and that people did not always understand what they were buying online. He said he worried that consumers would be upset when they discovered that certain medicines were not covered by their plans, or that their doctors were excluded from the approved providers.
但弗吉尼亚州弗雷德里克斯堡的保健经纪人约翰·G·李(John G. Lee)表示，医疗保险是一项复杂的产品，人们在线购买时未必都知道他们买下的具体内容。他说他担心当投保人发现他们的保险计划不覆盖特定的药品时，或他们的医生不在核准的医疗服务提供方中，他们会有所不满。