WASHINGTON — The Senate voted 96 to 0 on Thursday to confirm Senator Max Baucus as the new ambassador to China.
华盛顿——周四，参议院以96对0的投票结果批准马克斯·鲍卡斯(Max Baucus)出任美国驻华大使。
Mr. Baucus, a Democrat, has represented Montana in the Senate since 1978, and as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, he has been a major voice during many of the major policy debates of the past decade. He also was an architect of President Obama’s signature legislative achievement, the Affordable Care Act.
鲍卡斯是民主党人，自1978年以来一直是代表蒙大拿州的参议员。身为参议院财政委员会(Senate Finance Committee)主席，他在过去十年的许多重大政策辩论中发出了强有力的声音。此外，他还是奥巴马总统的标志性立法成就《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的设计者之一。
His departure from the Senate will have a domino effect among the Senate’s Democratic leaders. Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, who is now chairman of the Senate Energy Committee, will become leader of the powerful Finance Committee; Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, is expected to replace Mr. Wyden on the energy panel. Gov. Steve Bullock of Montana, a Democrat, is expected to name a replacement for Mr. Baucus.
他离任参议院一事将会在参议院的民主党领袖中造成多米诺效应。俄勒冈州民主党参议员、参议院能源委员会(Senate Energy Committee)现任主席罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)将出任举足轻重的财政委员会的主席，路易斯安那州的民主党参议员玛丽·L·兰德里欧(Mary L. Landrieu)则有望填补怀登在能源委员会的位置。民主党人、蒙大拿州州长史蒂夫·布洛克(Steve Bullock)预计会为鲍卡斯的参议员席位提名一个接替者。
In his farewell address on the Senate floor on Thursday, Mr. Baucus described what he called the defining period of his life — the year he took off from college to travel to India, Japan and China.
周四在参议院发表告别演说时，鲍卡斯说起了自己生命中的那个决定性时期——他曾中断大学学业，到印度、日本和中国游历了一年。
“Before I departed, I had never thought about a life of public service, but that trip opened my eyes, it charted my course,” he said. “I realized how people across the globe were interconnected, and I saw the indispensable role America plays as a leader on the world stage.
“出发之前，我从未想过要从事公众服务，但那次旅程开阔了我的视野，帮我制定了路线，”他说。“我认识到了世界各国人民的相互联系，也看到了美国在世界舞台上扮演的不可或缺的领袖角色。”
“The world is getting smaller,” he added. “Our natural resources are diminishing. We have to find a way to work together better.”
“世界越来越小，”他补充说。“我们的自然资源正在减少。我们必须找到一种更好的合作方式。”
Mr. Baucus said he was most proud of two pieces of legislation he worked on: the Affordable Care Act and a 2010 law that used the Montana National Guard’s post-traumatic stress disorder screening as a model to expand such programs nationwide.
鲍卡斯说，他最自豪的是自己曾参与的两项立法，即《合理医疗费用法案》和2010年的一项法律，后者以蒙大拿国民警卫队(Montana National Guard)的创伤后紧张症筛查项目为范例，在全国推广这种项目。
“It’s been almost four years since President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law,” Mr. Baucus said. “In that time, the law has done more than any in the past half-century to expand access to health coverage.”
“奥巴马总统把《合理医疗费用法案》签署为法律接近四年了，”鲍卡斯说。“在扩大医疗保险覆盖范围方面，这个法案在这段时间里发挥的作用比过去半个世纪内任何法律的作用都大。”
“It has been a challenge I am proud to have taken on,” he added.
他还说，“我为自己接受的这个挑战感到骄傲。”