WASHINGTON — EGYPT has entered a dark tunnel, and it is difficult to say when, and in what condition, it will emerge.
华盛顿——埃及进入了一个黑暗隧道，很难说什么时候，在什么情况下，埃及才能摆脱这种状态。
Many Americans, in the meantime, are outraged that the Obama administration has not exerted its supposed leverage, in the form of military aid, to pressure the Egyptian army to restore a democratic form of government.
与此同时，很多美国人感到非常愤怒，因为奥巴马政府没有施加美国应当具有的影响力，利用军事援助来迫使埃及军队恢复民主政府。
But it is time for some realism about that leverage. A yearly sum of $1.3 billion may seem persuasive, but this money has always been intended to secure foreign policy outcomes, not domestic political arrangements that the United States favors. For $1.3 billion per year, America has ensured peace with Israel, priority access to the Suez Canal and, more recently, counterterrorism cooperation.
但现在，大家该变得现实一点了。每年13亿美元（约合79.5亿元人民币）的援助可能看似有说服力，但这笔钱是被用于确保外交政策的成果，而不是为了确保美国支持的国内政治安排。通过每年提供13亿美元的援助，美国确保了埃以和平局势、进入苏伊士运河的优先权，以及在反恐领域的合作。
This worked under the authoritarian regime of Hosni Mubarak and under the Muslim Brotherhood government of Mohamed Morsi, with whom President Obama had an effective enough working relationship to broker a deal to end the latest outbreak of fighting between Israel and Hamas in Gaza.
这种援助在胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)的威权政权、穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)政府的统治时期都发挥了作用，奥巴马总统曾与穆尔西有效合作，达成协议，结束了以色列和哈马斯(Hamas)最近在加沙爆发的冲突。
Despite the fact that American military aid to Egypt has always been intended as an inducement to strategic cooperation, successive presidents have been tempted to use it in other ways.
尽管美国对埃及进行军事援助是为了促进战略合作，但历届总统都试图将援助用于其他目的。
But this aid has never succeeded in persuading Egypt’s rulers to govern the way Washington wants. Shortly after he took office in 1993, President Bill Clinton issued a not-so-veiled warning to Mr. Mubarak to reform the electoral process or face a cut in aid. Mr. Mubarak was unresponsive, and as violent resistance against him mounted, the White House backed off.
但这种援助从未能说服埃及的统治者按照美国希望的方式执政。比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)在1993年就任美国总统后不久，就对穆巴拉克发出了赤裸裸的警告，要求他改革选举程序，否则美国将削减援助。穆巴拉克毫无反应，随着针对他的暴力反抗活动不断增加，白宫只能放弃。
The administration of George W. Bush fared no better. When Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice demanded that Mr. Mubarak liberalize the country’s political system to allow opposition parties greater representation, he responded by arresting the only liberal candidate with any name recognition in Egypt — Ayman Nour — for electoral fraud. (No one should doubt authoritarian rulers’ capacity for irony.)
乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府做得也不怎么样。当康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)要求穆巴拉克实现埃及政治制度自由化，给予反对党更多代表权时，穆巴拉克逮捕了埃及唯一一名知名的自由派候选人——艾曼·努尔(Ayman Nour)，罪名是选举欺诈。（人们不应质疑集权统治者的讽刺能力。）
In response, Ms. Rice canceled an impending trip to Egypt, which led to Potemkinesque changes to the country’s election rules. These reforms faded quickly, paving the way, in conjunction with an economic downturn, to the mass protests that eventually resulted in Mr. Mubarak’s fall in February 2011.
作为回应，赖斯取消了即将开始的埃及之旅，致使埃及竞选规则产生了一些表面上的改变。但这些改革迅速失色，再加上经济也不景气，这为大规模抗议活动铺平了道路，抗议活动最终导致穆巴拉克在2011年2月下台。
Just as pressure from Presidents Clinton and Bush didn’t succeed in bringing about domestic change, the alleged leverage supplied by American assistance failed to compel Mr. Morsi to heed Mr. Obama’s repeated warnings to adopt a more inclusive approach to governing a deeply divided Egypt in the past year.
就像来自克林顿总统和布什总统的压力没有给埃及带来变化一样，所谓的美国援助带来的影响力没能迫使穆尔西听从奥巴马的再三警告——在过去一年中采取更加包容的方式统治深度分裂的埃及。
As far as Mr. Morsi was concerned, the need for his party to dominate Egyptian politics and escape the charge that he was collaborating with the West trumped not just the $1.3 billion on offer from Washington but also the $4.8 billion the International Monetary Fund was urging him to accept. When in history has a country the size of Egypt, with its proud history and self-conscious greatness, rearranged its domestic politics for the equivalent of just a billion dollars?
在穆尔西看来，他的党派需要主宰埃及政治，自己需要打破与西方勾结的指控，这两者不仅比美国政府所提供的13亿美元重要，而且比国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)敦促他接受的48亿美元更重要。历史上，像埃及这么大，而又拥有骄人历史，自认为伟大的国家何曾为区区数十亿美元重新安排过自己的国内政治秩序？
A decade ago, Turkey began making bold constitutional changes, institutionalizing civilian control over the military and reforming the judiciary, but these steps were taken to meet the membership requirements imposed by the European Union — a status to which Turkey still aspires. Compared with the $1.3 billion America provides Egypt, E.U. membership promised incalculably greater rewards to Turkey. Indeed, if the E.U. had offered Turkey only what Egypt receives from Washington, the Turkish Army might still be running the country.
10年前，土耳其开始推行大胆的制度改革，他们使文职政府对军队的控制实现了制度化，并且改革了司法体系，但是采取这些举措都是为了达到欧盟(European Union)所设立的成员国要求——土耳其仍然渴望能获得这个身份。与美国提供给埃及的13亿美元相比，成为欧盟成员将能为土耳其带来无法计算的好处。的确，如果欧盟提供给土耳其的只是埃及从美国那里得到的东西，那么如今统治土耳其的应该仍然是该国军队。
However great its hegemony may have once been in the Middle East, America no longer enjoys a strategic monopsony. Today, there are other buyers of Egyptian cooperation who can outbid the United States. Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia together have pledged $12 billion to Egypt’s junta, and they have done so without the conditions that Congress places on American-appropriated funds.
不管美国在中东地区的霸权曾经多么强大，它现在已不再享有战略垄断权。如今，为了获取埃及的合作，其他买家已经给出了高于美国的价格。科威特、阿联酋和沙特阿拉伯承诺要为埃及军方提供共计120亿美元的资金，而且他们还没有像美国国会那样给拨款附加条件。
Of course, the White House could still do something symbolic, cutting off aid to assuage America’s moral critics. But presumably Mr. Obama hasn’t done this for two reasons.
当然，美国政府仍然可以采取一些象征性举措，用切断援助来安抚美国的道德批判者。但是据推测，奥巴马没有这样做是出于两个原因。
The first is to avoid making the United States the center of the story. If America cut all aid tomorrow, the Obama administration would be accused by all sides of undermining the country’s security and meddling in its affairs. Egypt’s current political crisis dates back to the 1930s, and it is one that Egyptians need to resolve themselves, without the distraction of American involvement. And since cutting aid is unlikely to work in any case, staking American prestige on such a doubtful outcome would be imprudent.
首先，这是为了避免使美国成为事情的焦点。假如美国明天就切断所有援助，各方都会指责奥巴马政府弃埃及的安全局势于不顾而干涉其内政。埃及当前的政治危机可以追溯到20世纪30年代，而且这场危机需要埃及人自己来解决，并不需要美国的插手干预来分散精力。此外，既然切断援助的做法似乎无法在任何情况下起作用，那么把美国的声誉押在一个如此难以确定的结果上，将是很轻率的做法。
The second is that as violence and repression in Egypt deepen, the White House will ultimately be compelled to respond, even if its options are at best symbolic and, at worst, counterproductive.
第二，随着埃及的暴力冲突和镇压行动不断升级，白宫最终将被迫作出回应，虽然它的行动充其量只具有象征性，而且在最坏的情况下，还可能会起到相反作用。
Proponents of punitive action are correct to argue that the biggest threat America can wield is a cutoff of military aid. But this must be held in reserve for when things inevitably get worse.
支持采取惩罚性措施的人曾经辩称，美国能发出的最有力的威胁就是切断军事援助，他们是对的。但是，这个威胁必须留到形势更加恶劣、局面无法扭转的时候使用。
In the interim, canceling a joint military exercise with Egypt was the tactically sensible thing to do. Having fired this warning shot, the administration still has at least one round of ammunition remaining. Egypt’s nightmare will not disappear overnight; Washington needs to keep dry what little powder it has left.
在此期间，取消与埃及的联合军演从战术上来看是明智的。在这次鸣枪示警之后，奥巴马政府至少还有一发子弹。埃及的噩梦不会在一夜间结束，美国政府还需保留自己已所剩无几的弹药。