LANGLEY, Va. — John O. Brennan, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, on Thursday strongly defended the brutal interrogation tactics once used by the C.I.A. against Qaeda suspects, describing agency interrogators as “patriots” and admonishing only those C.I.A. officers who went “outside the bounds” of Justice Department rules.
维吉尼亚兰利——周四，中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称CIA）局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)为CIA对付基地组织嫌疑人时曾经采用的残酷审讯手法进行了强力辩护。他将局里的审讯人员称为“爱国者”，并把谴责范围限定在“逾越”司法部制定的规则“界限”的CIA探员身上。
Speaking from inside the marble lobby of the C.I.A.’s headquarters, Mr. Brennan on Thursday challenged the conclusions of an excoriating report by the Senate Intelligence Committee that concluded the agency’s detention program had yielded little valuable information, and that the C.I.A. repeatedly misled the White House and Congress about the value of the program. Mr. Brennan said what the C.I.A. calls enhanced interrogation techniques were effective, even if it is “unknowable” whether useful intelligence was obtained as the direct result of brutal interrogation methods.
布伦南周四在CIA总部的大理石门厅发表了此番讲话。参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)此前发布的措辞严厉的报告得出结论，CIA的羁押项目并未带来多少有价值的信息，而且CIA在这一项目的价值上反复误导白宫和国会。对于这些结论，布伦南予以了驳斥。他表示，CIA所说的“加强型审讯技巧”是有效的，尽管“无法知晓”有用的情报是否直接来自于残酷的审讯手法。
Unlike President Obama, Mr. Brennan pointedly refused to say that the methods — including waterboarding, shackling prisoners in painful positions, and locking them in coffin-like boxes — amounted to torture. His characterization of the program on Thursday was a contrast to the remarks he made in 2009 while serving as Mr. Obama’s top counterterrorism adviser, when he said the interrogation methods “led us astray from our ideals as a nation” and that “tactics such as waterboarding were not in keeping with our values as Americans.” Asked on Thursday about those comments, Mr. Brennan said he stood by them.
与奥巴马总统不同，布伦南刻意拒绝评论这些手法——包括水刑、令在押人员保持痛苦姿势再拷上，以及将其锁在类似棺材的箱子里——是否等同于虐囚。他周四对这一项目的描述，与其本人2009年担任奥巴马的首席反恐顾问时所做的评论形成了对照。当时，他表示这些审讯手法“将我们带上了与这个国家的理念相悖的歧途”，而“类似水刑的手法与我们美国的价值观不符”。当周四被问到当年的评论时，布伦南称自己的这些话没错。
He is in a different role today, leading a C.I.A. work force that still comprises hundreds of officers who were involved in the detention and interrogation program.
今时今日，布伦南的身份已发生了变化。作为CIA局长，他手下的员工中仍然包括数以百计参与过羁押和审讯项目的探员。
He was unstinting in his praise of the C.I.A’s response after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, even while agreeing with the conclusions of the Senate Intelligence Committee that the agency was ill-prepared for its new role as jailers and conducted poor oversight of the program during its early years.
他对9·11袭击后CIA的应对大加赞赏，尽管也同意参议院情报委员会得出的部分结论：CIA没有做好准备来迎接关押囚徒的新任务，在项目开始后的头几年里监管不力。
Although he said the C.I.A. was out of the interrogation business, he offered no assurances that anything prevented the government from authorizing the same techniques in the face of another crisis. “I defer to the policy makers in future times,” he said.
虽然布伦南表示，CIA已不再进行审讯，但他并未保证有什么机制能够阻止政府在面临下一场危机时授权采用同样的审讯技巧。“我把它交给未来的决策者来回答，”他说。
While Mr. Brennan acknowledged that hard work that went into the Senate report — which took five years to complete and involved the examination of millions of documents — he criticized the investigation as “flawed,” “partisan,” and “frustrating,” and pointed out numerous disagreements that he had with the report’s damning conclusions about the C.I.A. now-defunct prison program.
布伦南承认，参议院的报告耗费了大量时间精力——报告历时五年完成，期间审阅了数百万份文件。不过，他批评这项调查“存在缺陷”、“带有党派色彩”、“令人不安”，并指出了他在多个方面不赞同文中对CIA的羁押项目大加鞭挞的结论。该项目如今已遭废止。
His position about the efficacy of the interrogation techniques was an attempt to thread a needle between Senate Democrats who have argued that the brutal techniques played little role in disrupting significant terror plots or hunting down leaders of Al Qaeda like Osama bin Laden, and former C.IA. officials who during a fiery counterattack to the Senate report have said that waterboarding and other interrogation methods were central to counterterrorism successes since 2001.
对于审讯技术的有效性，他的立场是试图站在两个对立方之间，其中一方是参议院民主党人，他们认为，对于粉碎重大恐怖阴谋、追捕奥萨玛·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)等基地组织领导人来说，这种残忍的技术没有起到什么作用，另一方是CIA，他们对参议院的报告予以了强烈反击，说自2001年以来，水刑等审讯手段是反恐成功的关键因素。
As Mr. Brennan put it, using C.I.A. shorthand for enhanced interrogation techniques, “we have not concluded that it was the use of E.I.T.s within that program that allowed us to obtain useful information from detainees subjected to them. The cause and effect relationship between the use of E.I.T.s and useful information subsequently provided by the detainee is, in my view, unknowable.”
布伦南说，“是否是EIT（CIA对“强化审讯技术”的简称）让我们从受刑的被拘者那里获得了有用的信息，对此我们尚无定论。我们使用EIT之后，被拘者提供了有用的信息，在我看来，两者之间是否存在因果关系是无法知晓的。”
White House officials insist that Mr. Brennan—who has long been one of Mr. Obama’s closest advisers — remains in favor with the president.
长期以来，布伦南都是奥巴马关系最亲密的顾问之一。白宫官员坚称，他仍然受到总统的信任。
Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, on Thursday called Mr. Brennan a “patriot” and said that Mr. Obama retains “full confidence” in his C.I.A. director.
白宫新闻秘书乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)本周四说布伦南是个“爱国者”，并说奥巴马对他的CIA局长“充满信心”。
In his remarks, Mr. Brennan acknowledged that in a limited number of cases, C.I.A. officers had used “interrogation methods that had not been authorized, were abhorrent and rightly should be repudiated by all.”
在发言中，布伦南承认，在少量案例中，CIA人员使用了“未被授权的审讯方法，那很糟糕，理应进行彻底否定。”
But the “overwhelming majority of officers involved in the program,” he said, carried out their responsibilities “faithfully and in accordance with the legal and policy guidance they were provided.”
但“绝大多数参与这个项目的人员，”他说，是在“忠实地依照法律，依照所传达的政策方针”来履行自己的职责
Some of the most shocking examples contained in the Senate Intelligence Committee report involved C.I.A. interrogations that were within the wide boundaries established by the Justice Department.
参议院情报委员会报告中有一些非常令人震惊的例子，它们所涉及的CIA审讯方法，属于司法部设定的宽泛范围之内。
The report gave an excruciating account of the 2002 interrogation of Abu Zubaydah in Thailand. The interrogation sessions became so extreme that some C.I.A. officers began choking up with tears and requested to be transferred out of the facility if the torture continued.
该报告叙述的一个案例令人难受：2002年，CIA在泰国审讯阿布·朱贝达(Abu Zubaydah)时，过程变得非常残忍，以至于一些CIA人员开始哽咽流泪，表示如果再这么刑讯逼供，他们就要申请调出该设施。
The report also details several instances in which interrogators used unauthorized tactics. At a secret prison in Afghanistan known as the Salt Pit — what one C.I.A. officer likened to a “dungeon” — a detainee died of hypothermia after being doused with water and left chained, half-naked, to a cold concrete floor
该报告还详细描述了审讯人员使用未经授权的方法的一些实例。在阿富汗一个被称为“盐坑”的秘密监狱——CIA人员将其比作“地牢”——给一名被拘者浇上水，让他半裸着，带着镣铐，躺在冰冷的水泥地上，后来他被冻死。
Senator Dianne Feinstein, the chairwoman on the Intelligence Committee, offered a running — often critical — commentary on Twitter during Mr. Brennan’s remarks.
布伦南发言过程中，参议院情报委员会主席、参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)在Twitter上即时发表评论，这些评论往往是是批判性的。
“Useful information was not the legal policy standard for E.I.T.,” Ms. Feinstein wrote.
“有用的信息并不是EIT合法的政策标准，”范斯坦写道。
Later in the day, however, Ms. Feinstein struck a more conciliatory tone.
但是，当天晚些时候，范斯坦的语气缓和了下来。
In a statement, she said Mr. Brennan’s remarks “showed that C.I.A. leadership is prepared to prevent this from ever happening again — which is all important.”
在一份声明中，她说布伦南的发言“表明CIA领导层做好了防止这种事情再次发生的准备——这才是最重要的。”
She disagreed with Mr. Brennan’s conclusion that it is “unknowable” whether brutality and torture employed by the C.I.A. was effective, but said she was “pleased that Director Brennan is attempting to acknowledge past mistakes by the agency in order to focus on current and future missions.”
布伦南说，CIA所用暴行和酷刑的有效性是“无法知晓的”，这个结论她不赞同，但她表示“很高兴布伦南试图承认CIA过去犯下的错误，以便把重点放在当前和未来的使命上”。