Next week the Environmental Protection Agency is expected to announce new rules designed to limit global warming. Although we don’t know the details yet, anti-environmental groups are already predicting vast costs and economic doom. Don’t believe them. Everything we know suggests that we can achieve large reductions in greenhouse gas emissions at little cost to the economy.
下周，美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)预计将宣布旨在遏制全球变暖的新规定。尽管我们尚不清楚其中细节，但反环保团体已经在预言，此举成本巨大，经济在劫难逃。别买他们的帐。我们了解的所有情况均显示，我们可以在不让经济付出多少代价的情况下大幅减排温室气体。
Just ask the United States Chamber of Commerce.
只要问问美国商会(United States Chamber of Commerce)就知道了。
O.K., that’s not the message the Chamber of Commerce was trying to deliver in the report it put out Wednesday. It clearly meant to convey the impression that the E.P.A.’s new rules would wreak havoc. But if you focus on the report’s content rather than its rhetoric, you discover that despite the chamber’s best efforts to spin things — as I’ll explain later, the report almost surely overstates the real cost of climate protection — the numbers are remarkably small.
好吧，美国商会周三公布的报告原意并非如此。显然，它意图留下的印象是，环保局的新规定将造成极大破坏。可是，如果把注意力放到报告的内容而非论调上，大家就会发现，尽管商会极尽歪曲之能事，但真实成本是非常小的。我将在后文解释，这份报告几乎肯定夸大了保护气候的真实成本。
Specifically, the report considers a carbon-reduction program that’s probably considerably more ambitious than we’re actually going to see, and it concludes that between now and 2030 the program would cost $50.2 billion in constant dollars per year. That’s supposed to sound like a big deal. Instead, if you know anything about the U.S. economy, it sounds like Dr. Evil intoning “one million dollars.” These days, it’s just not a lot of money.
尤其是，文中考虑的减碳计划很可能比我们实际将会看到的情况要激进不少，而报告据此得出结论，从现在到2030年，以不变美元计算，该计划的成本将达每年502亿美元（约合3130亿元人民币）。这一数字意在让人觉得是大手笔。然而，倘若读者对美国经济稍有了解，这就好比是从邪恶博士的口中平静地吐出“一百万美元”。现如今，这根本不算是多大的数目。
Remember, we have a $17 trillion economy right now, and it’s going to grow over time. So what the Chamber of Commerce is actually saying is that we can take dramatic steps on climate — steps that would transform international negotiations, setting the stage for global action — while reducing our incomes by only one-fifth of 1 percent. That’s cheap!
请记住，我们目前的经济规模为17万亿美元，而且还会继续增长。因此，美国商会实际传达的讯息是，我们可以采取激进的气候举措——此类举措将彻底改变国际谈判的格局，为全球性行动奠定基础——而我们的经济进项仅会减少0.2%。根本很划算嘛！
Alternatively, consider the chamber’s estimate of costs per household: $200 per year. Since the average American household has an income of more than $70,000 a year, and that’s going to rise over time, we’re again looking at costs that amount to no more than a small fraction of 1 percent.
或者，我们可以考察一下商会对每个家庭承担的成本的估算：每年200美元。既然美国户均年收入逾7万美元，而且会随时间推移继续增长，我们可以再次看到，这一影响不及1%的一半。
One more useful comparison: The Pentagon has warned that global warming and its consequences pose a significant threat to national security. (Republicans in the House responded with a legislative amendment that would forbid the military from even thinking about the issue.) Currently, we’re spending $600 billion a year on defense. Is it really extravagant to spend another 8 percent of that budget to reduce a serious threat?
有一种更为有效的比较方式：五角大楼发出警告，全球变暖及其后果对国家安全构成重大威胁。（众议院的共和党人对此的回应是，提出一项立法修正案，要求禁止军方对此议题进行任何考虑。）目前，我们的防务预算为每年6000亿美元。再花上这一数字的8%来减轻一种严重威胁的话，难道真的是挥霍无度吗？
And all of this is based on anti-environmentalists’ own numbers. The real costs would almost surely be smaller, for three reasons.
而且，以上分析均基于的是反环保团体自己给出的数据。几乎可以肯定，真实成本将比之更小，原因有三：
First, the Chamber of Commerce study assumes that economic growth, and the associated growth in emissions, will be at its historic norm of 2.5 percent a year. But we should expect slower growth in the future as baby boomers retire, making emissions targets easier to hit.
首先，商会的研究假定，美国未来的经济增长及与之相关的碳排放增长将为历史基准值：每年2.5%。然而，随着婴儿潮一代的退休，我们应会看到未来的增长较之放缓，从而使得排放目标更易于达到。
Second, in the chamber’s analysis, the bulk of the reduction in emissions comes from replacing coal with natural gas. This neglects the dramatic technological progress taking place in renewables, especially solar power, which should make cutting back on carbon even easier.
其次，在商会的分析中，大部分减排源自用天然气替代煤炭。这忽略了可再生能源领域日新月异的技术进步，尤其是太阳能，而这种能源应该会让碳减排更加容易。
Third, the U.S. economy is still depressed — and in a depressed economy many of the supposed costs of compliance with energy regulations aren’t costs at all. In particular, building new, low-emission power plants would employ both workers and capital that would otherwise be sitting idle, and would, if anything, give the U.S. economy a boost.
第三，美国经济仍一片萧条，而在这种情况下，在遵守能源监管的所谓合规成本中，许多根本算不上是成本。尤其是，设立低排放的新工厂将让本会闲置的人力与资本投入运转。如果说这会产生什么后果的话，那就是刺激美国经济增长。
You might ask why the Chamber of Commerce is so fiercely opposed to action against global warming, if the cost of action is so small. The answer, of course, is that the chamber is serving special interests, notably the coal industry — what’s good for America isn’t good for the Koch brothers, and vice versa — and also catering to the ever more powerful anti-science sentiments of the Republican Party.
大家或许会问，如果说采取抗击全球变暖的行动的成本如此之低的话，美国商会为何要如此激烈地予以反对？问题的答案，当然了，是商会服务于特殊利益，尤其是煤炭业——对美国好的事情对科氏兄弟不好，反之亦然——还有，商会是在迎合共和党内与日俱增的反科学情绪。
Finally, let me take on the anti-environmentalists’ last line of defense — the claim that whatever we do won’t matter, because other countries, will just keep on burning ever more coal. This gets things exactly wrong. Yes, we need an international agreement to reduce emissions, including sanctions on countries that don’t sign on. But U.S. unwillingness to act has been the biggest obstacle to such an agreement. If we start taking serious steps against global warming, the stage will be set for Europe and Japan to follow suit, and for concerted pressure on the rest of the world as well.
最后，让我们来看看反环保分子的最后一道防线——他们宣称，不管我们做什么，都无关紧要，因为其他国家，将继续燃烧越来越多的煤炭。恰恰相反。的确，我们需要一项国际协议来减排，其中包含对不遵守规定的国家实施的制裁措施。然而，美国不愿采取行动一直是达成这样一项协议的最大障碍。倘若我们开始认真地应对全球变暖，就将既为欧洲与日本从善如流创造条件，也为协同起来对世界其他地区施加压力奠定基础。