WASHINGTON — The United States and allies launched airstrikes against Sunni militants in Syria early Tuesday, unleashing a torrent of cruise missiles and precision-guided bombs from the air and sea on the militants’ de facto capital of Raqqa and along the porous Iraq border.
华盛顿——周二凌晨，美国及其盟友对叙利亚境内的逊尼派武装分子发动了空袭，利用巡航导弹和精确制导炸弹，从空中和海上对武装分子事实上的首都拉卡，以及漏洞百出的伊拉克边境沿线发动了猛烈的袭击。
American fighter jets and armed Predator and Reaper drones, flying alongside warplanes from several Arab allies, struck a broad array of targets in territory controlled by the militants, known as the Islamic State. American defense officials said the targets included weapons supplies, depots, barracks and buildings the militants use for command and control. Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired from United States Navy ships in the region.
美国的战斗机，以及“捕食者”(Predator)和“死神”(Reaper)武装无人机，与来自几个阿拉伯盟国的战斗机并驾齐驱，对一系列广泛的目标发起了攻击。这些目标所在的地区，处在称作伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的武装分子的控制之下。美国国防官员表示，攻击目标包括武器补给、仓库、营房，以及武装分子用于指挥和控制的建筑。美国海军从停靠在该地区的舰艇上发射了“战斧”(Tomahawk)巡航导弹。
“I can confirm that U.S. military and partner nation forces are undertaking military action against ISIL terrorists in Syria using a mix of fighter, bomber and Tomahawk Land Attack Missiles,” said Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, using an alternate name for the Islamic State.
“我可以证实美国以及盟友的军队，正在利用战斗机、轰炸机和‘战斧’对地导弹的组合，对叙利亚境内的ISIL恐怖分子采取军事行动，”五角大楼新闻发言人约翰·柯比少将(John Kirby)说。他所说的ISIL是伊斯兰国的另一个称呼。
“Given that these operations are ongoing, we are not in a position to provide additional details at this time,” Admiral Kirby said in a statement Monday night in Washington. “The decision to conduct these strikes was made earlier today by the U.S. Central Command commander under authorization granted him by the commander in chief. We will provide more details later as operationally appropriate.”
“鉴于这些行动正在进行，我们不方便在此时提供更多的细节，”柯比周一夜间在华盛顿发表声明说。“开展这些打击行动的决定，是美国中央司令部(U.S. Central Command)司令，按照三军统帅给予的授权，在今天早些时候做出的。我们随后将在不影响行动的时候，提供更多细节。”
The strikes are a major turning point in President Obama’s war against the Islamic State and open up a risky new stage of the American military campaign. Until now, the administration had bombed Islamic State targets only in Iraq, and had suggested it would be weeks if not months before the start of a bombing campaign against Islamic State targets in Syria.
在奥巴马总统对伊斯兰国的战斗中，这些打击是一个重要的转折点，开启了美国军事行动一个危险的新阶段。在此之前，奥巴马政府仅对伊拉克境内的伊斯兰国目标进行了轰炸，还曾表示即使不是几个月，也是几周后才会开始对叙利亚境内的伊斯兰国目标展开轰炸。
The strikes came less than two weeks after Mr. Obama announced in an address to the nation that he was authorizing an expansion of the military campaign against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.
在展开此番打击行动不到两周前，奥巴马在面向全国的讲话中宣布，他会授权扩大对伊斯兰国发起的军事行动。伊斯兰国又称ISIS。
Unlike American strikes in Iraq over the past month, which have been small-bore bombings of mostly individual Islamic State targets — patrol boats and trucks — the salvo on Tuesday in Syria was the beginning of what was expected to be a sustained, hourslong bombardment at targets in the militant headquarters in Raqqa and on the border.
过去一个月里，美国在伊拉克的打击行动，均是小规模的轰炸，对象大多是伊斯兰国的个别目标，如巡逻船和卡车。有所不同的是，周二在叙利亚境内发起的猛烈轰炸，预计将掀起长达数小时的持续攻击，对象则是武装分子位于拉卡总部的目标。
The strikes began after years of debate within the Obama administration about whether the United States should intervene militarily or should avoid another entanglement in a complex war in the Middle East. But the Islamic State controls a broad swath of land across both Iraq and Syria.
展开袭击前，奥巴马政府内部就美国是否应该派军队干预，还是应该避免在中东再次陷入复杂的战争，进行过数年的辩论。但伊斯兰国在伊拉克和叙利亚境内，控制了一大片地区。
Defense officials said the goal of the air campaign was to deprive the Islamic State of the safe havens it enjoys in Syria. The administration’s ultimate goal, as set forth in the address Mr. Obama delivered on Sept. 10, is to recruit a global coalition to “degrade and ultimately destroy” the militants, even as Mr. Obama warned that “eradicating a cancer” like the Islamic State was a long-term challenge that would put some American troops at risk.
国防官员称这场空袭行动的目标是破坏伊斯兰国在叙利亚境内享有的避风港。正如奥巴马在9月10日的讲话中所说，政府的最终目标是建立一个全球联盟，“削弱并最终摧毁”那些武装分子，不过奥巴马警告称，“根除”伊斯兰国这样的“毒瘤”是一项长期挑战，会使一些美国士兵陷于危险境地。
American warplanes had been conducting aerial surveillance flights in Syria for more than a month in anticipation of airstrikes, but it had been unclear just how much intelligence the Pentagon had managed to gather about the movements of the Sunni militant group in Syria. Unlike Iraq, whose airspace is controlled by the United States, Syria has its own aerial defense system, so American planes have had to rely on sometimes jamming the country’s defenses when crossing into Syria.
为了筹备空袭，一个多月以来，美国战机一直在叙利亚执行空中侦察任务，但目前尚不清楚美国国防部搜集到了多少关于逊尼派武装组织在叙利亚行动的情报。与领空由美国控制的伊拉克不同，叙利亚拥有自己的防空体系，所以有时候，美国飞机在飞入叙利亚境内时不得不干扰叙利亚的防空系统。
The strikes in Syria occurred without the approval of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, whose government, unlike Iraq, did not ask the United States for help against the Sunni militant group. Mr. Obama has repeatedly called on Mr. Assad to step down because of chemical weapons attacks and violence against his own people, and defense officials said Mr. Assad had not been told in advance of the strikes.
在叙利亚实施的空袭并未得到叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的批准。与伊拉克不同，阿萨德政府并未请求美国帮其对抗逊尼派武装组织。由于阿萨德曾对本国人民使用化学武器和暴力，所以奥巴马曾多次要求他下台。国防官员称，在空袭发生前，阿萨德并未得到任何消息。
But administration officials acknowledge that American efforts to roll back the Sunni militant group in Syria cannot help but aid Mr. Assad, whose government is also a target of the Islamic State.
但是，政府官员承认，美国击退叙利亚逊尼派武装组织的行动无法不帮助到阿萨德。阿萨德政府也是伊斯兰国的袭击目标。
The administration did not announce the allies that participated in the strikes, saying they would leave it up to the nations’ leaders to announce their own military action. Arab officials said they expected to make announcements later Tuesday about their participation.
奥巴马政府并未公布参与此次袭击的盟国都有哪些，还表示要让各国领导人自己来宣布各自的军事行动。阿联酋官员称，他们预计将于周二晚些时候发表声明，阐述该国在此次行动中的参与。
The United Arab Emirates announced three weeks ago that it was willing to participate in the campaign against the Islamic State, and administration officials have also said they expect the Iraqi military to take part in strikes both in Iraq and Syria. If both nations are in fact participants, the strikes on Tuesday could mark a rare instance when the Shiite-dominated Iraqi military has cooperated in a military operation with its Sunni Arab neighbors.
阿联酋三周前宣布愿意参与针对伊斯兰国的攻势，政府官员也表示，他们希望伊拉克军方能参与在伊拉克和叙利亚境内的袭击行动。如果两国的确都曾参与行动，那么周二的袭击就会成为一个罕见的例子——什叶派占主导的伊拉克军方竟然与其逊尼派占主导的阿拉伯邻国开展了军事合作。
Combined with a French airstrike last week on a logistics depot held by Islamic State militants in northeastern Iraq, the allied participation in the strikes allows Mr. Obama to make the case that his plan to target the Islamic State has international cooperation.
上周，法国对伊斯兰国武装分子在伊拉克东北部占领的后勤仓库发动空袭。由于此次袭击有多国参与，所以奥巴马也能以此为由，表示自己攻击伊斯兰国的计划获得了国际社会的合作。