WASHINGTON — A sweeping bipartisan majority in the Senate on Wednesday rejected President Barack Obama’s veto of legislation that would allow families of those killed in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to sue Saudi Arabia for any role in the plot, all but assuring that Obama would suffer the first override vote of his presidency.
华盛顿——周三，参议院来自两党的议员以一边倒的结果同意推翻奥巴马总统对一项议案的否决。该议案将允许2011年9月11日恐怖袭击事件遇难者的家属因沙特阿拉伯在其中起到的任何作用对该国提起上诉。几乎可以确定，奥巴马将遭遇他担任总统以来的首次推翻否决投票。
The vote was 97-1, with only Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., siding with the president.
投票结果是97比1，只有内华达州民主党参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)与总统站在一边。
With the House nearly certain to follow the Senate later Wednesday, the 9/11 bill will become law in a remarkable yet complicated bipartisan rebuke. Still, the measure itself remains contentious, and even some of those who cast a vote against Obama conceded that they did not fully support it.
几乎可以肯定，众议院也会在周三晚些时候给出同样的表决结果。经过引人注目而又极为复杂的两党抵制之后，9·11议案将成为法律。不过，这项议案本身依然有争议，就连其中一些对奥巴马投反对票的人也承认，他们并不完全支持它。
“This is a decision I do not take lightly,” said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., one of the authors of this legislation. “This bill is near and dear to my heart as a New Yorker, because it would allow the victims of 9/11 to pursue some small measure of justice, finally giving them a legal avenue to pursue foreign sponsors of the terrorist attack that took from them the lives of their loved ones.”
“这个决定不是轻易做出的，”该草案的起草者之一、纽约州民主党参议员查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)说。“作为一名纽约人，我觉得这项议案戳中了我的内心，因为它将允许9·11受害者伸张小规模的正义，最终给予他们合法的途径，去追查这场夺走他们至亲至爱的恐怖袭击的境外资助者。”
The bill’s triumphant journey came without significant congressional debate or intense pressure from voters, but rather through the sheer will of the victims’ families, who seized on the 15th anniversary of the attack and an election year to lean on members of Congress.
这项取得胜利的议案并没有经过大的国会辩论，也没有来自选民的巨大压力，而是全由受害者家人的意愿促成。他们利用袭击事件15周年纪念的时机，以及选举年的特殊情况，对国会成员施压。
The override means the passage of a bill that many Republicans now regret helping.
推翻否决意味着，一项很多共和党人后悔参与的法案获得了通过。
“On an issue of this significance,” said Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., “and with so many equities to balance, a fulsome floor debate would have been useful in order to air some of the unintended consequences that could occur following enactment of the legislation.”
“在一件这么重要的事情上，”田纳西州共和党参议员鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)说，“有这么多利益需要权衡，一场全是吹捧的辩论也足以曝露法案一旦实施会有哪些意想不到的后果。”
The measure would amend a 1976 law that granted other countries broad immunity from U.S. lawsuits, allowing nations to be sued in federal court if they are found to have played any role in terrorist attacks that killed Americans on U.S. soil.
这项议案将对1976年一项法律作出修正，该法授予其他国家免遭美国诉讼的广泛豁免权。修正后这些国家可以被告上联邦法院，条件是它们被发现在于美国本土杀害美国公民的恐怖袭击中扮演了某种角色。
The law “could be devastating to the Department of Defense and its service members,” Obama wrote.
这项法律“可能会给国防部及其服役人员造成极大的冲击，”奥巴马写道。