Friday’s employment report wasn’t bad. But given how depressed our economy remains, we really should be adding more than 300,000 jobs a month, not fewer than 200,000. As the Economic Policy Institute points out, we would need more than five years of job growth at this rate to get back to the level of unemployment that prevailed before the Great Recession. Full recovery still looks a very long way off. And I’m beginning to worry that it may never happen.
周五的就业报告不算糟。但是考虑到我们的经济依旧如此萧条，我们每个月的就业人口增长应该在30万以上，而不是20万不到。正如经济政策研究所(Economic Policy Institute)所说，我们需要将这样的增长速度保持五年以上，才能把失业水平恢复到大衰退(Great Recession)前的常态。距离全面复苏还有很长一段路要走，而我已经开始担心可能永远走不到头。
Ask yourself the hard question: What, exactly, will bring us back to full employment?
大家都思考一下这个难题：我们要靠什么来恢复充分就业？
We certainly can’t count on fiscal policy. The austerity gang may have experienced a stunning defeat in the intellectual debate, but stimulus is still a dirty word, and no deliberate job-creation program is likely soon, or ever.
财政政策肯定是指望不上了。紧缩帮在智力辩论上一败涂地，但“刺激措施”依然是个不能说出口的敏感词，深思熟虑的创造就业项目短时间内是不会有了，而且可能永远也不会再有。
Aggressive monetary action by the Federal Reserve, something like what the Bank of Japan is now trying, might do the trick. But far from becoming more aggressive, the Fed is talking about “tapering” its efforts. This talk has already done real damage; more on that in a minute.
美联储(Federal Reserve)若能像日本银行(Bank of Japan)目前正在做的那样，采取激进的货币措施，也许能见效。但别提什么更激进了，联储正在说要“收敛”自己的活动。这个言论已经构成实际危害了；待会儿我们会仔细谈这个问题。
Still, even if we don’t and won’t have a job-creation policy, can’t we count on the natural recuperative powers of the private sector? Maybe not.
不过，就算我们没有也不愿有创造就业政策，难道私营经济天生的自愈能力也不能指望吗？可能不行。
It’s true that after a protracted slump, the private sector usually does find reasons to start spending again. Investment in equipment and software is already well above pre-recession levels, basically because technology marches on, and businesses must spend to keep up. After six years during which hardly any new homes were built in America, housing is trying to stage a comeback. So yes, the economy is showing some signs of healing itself.
经过长时间的滑坡后，私营经济的确往往会找到重新开始花钱的理由。设备和软件的投资已经大大超过衰退前的水平了，根本上这是因为技术在进步，企业必须花钱跟上。六年来美国几乎没有新建过什么住宅，现在房地产正在努力重新崛起。所以，经济的确表现出了一些自愈的迹象。
But that healing process won’t go very far if policy makers stomp on it, in particular by raising interest rates. That’s not an idle worry. A Fed chairman famously declared that his job was to take away the punch bowl just as the party was really warming up; unfortunately, history offers many examples of central bankers pulling away the punch bowl before the party even starts.
但是如果政策制定者要去遏制它，具体来说就是提升利率，那么这个疗伤过程就持续不了多久。这可不是在凭空担忧。一位联储主席有句名言，他说他的工作就是在聚会气氛开始升温时把潘趣酒碗拿走；不幸地是，历史上我们看到不少央行在聚会开始前就把酒碗收走的事例。
And financial markets are, in effect, betting that the Fed is going to offer another such example. Long-term interest rates, which mainly reflect expectations about future short-term rates, shot up after Friday’s job report — a report that, to repeat, was at best just O.K. Housing may be trying to bounce back, but that bounce now has to contend with sharply rising financing costs: 30-year mortgage rates have risen by a third since the Fed started talking about relaxing its efforts about two months ago.
而金融市场其实就在赌美联储会重蹈覆辙。长期利率是对未来短期利率预期的主要反映，在周五的就业报告发布之后，这个利率突然蹿升——我要重申，这份报告的表现，顶多只能算是还可以。房地产可能在尝试反弹，但这波反弹需要和急剧增长的融资成本作斗争：自打两个月前美联储开始说要放缓相关措施，30年期按揭利率已经上升了三分之一。
Why is this happening? Part of the reason is that the Fed is constantly under pressure from monetary hawks, who always want to see tighter money and higher interest rates. These hawks spent years warning that soaring inflation was just around the corner. They were wrong, of course, but rather than change their position they have simply invented new reasons — financial stability, whatever — to advocate higher rates. At this point it’s clear that monetary hawkery is mainly a form of Puritanism in H. L. Mencken’s sense — “the haunting fear that someone, somewhere may be happy.” But it remains dangerously influential.
为什么会这样？其中一个原因是货币鹰派不断在给美联储施压，他们永远都嫌货币政策不够紧，嫌利率不够高。多年来鹰派一直在警告，高通胀随时会发生。他们当然错了，但他们没有改变立场，倒是发明了新的理由——金融稳定性之类的——从而鼓吹进一步提高利率。此时此刻已经可以清楚地看到，货币鹰派人士主要就是一种H·L·门肯(H. L. Mencken)意义上的清教主义——“无休止地担忧某人、某地也许过上了好日子。”但是它始终保持着危险的影响力。
Unfortunately, there’s also a technical issue that plays into the prejudices of the monetary hawks. The statistical techniques policy makers often use to estimate the economy’s “potential” — the maximum level of output and employment it can achieve without inflationary overheating — turn out to be badly flawed: they interpret any sustained economic slump as a decline in potential, so that the hawks can point to charts and spreadsheets supposedly showing that there’s not much room for growth.
不幸的是，货币鹰派的先入之见里还有一个技术问题在起作用。政策制定者在评估经济“潜力”——在不造成通胀过热的前提下，产量和就业能达到的最高水平——时经常使用的统计技术，看来是有严重缺陷的：它们把所有持续性的经济滑坡都解读为潜力的下降，所以鹰派人士就可以指着各种统计图表说，已经没什么上升的空间了。
In short, there’s a real risk that bad policy will choke off our already inadequate recovery.
简单说，已经很乏力的复苏被烂政策扼杀的可能性是存在的。
But won’t voters eventually demand more? Well, that’s where I get especially pessimistic.
但是难道最终选民不会表达不满足吗？这个，就是让我格外悲观的地方了。
You might think that a persistently poor economy — an economy in which millions of people who could and should be productively employed are jobless, and in many cases have been without work for a very long time — would eventually spark public outrage. But the political science evidence on economics and elections is unambiguous: what matters is the rate of change, not the level.
数百万的人本可以也应该做着富有产出的工作，但却失业了，其中很多人已经很长时间没有工作了，你可能以为，在这样持续低迷的经济形势下，最终公众会爆发出不满。但是经济和选举的政治科学证据是明确的：关键在于变化的速度而非水平。
Put it this way: if unemployment rises from 6 to 7 percent during an election year, the incumbent will probably lose. But if it stays flat at 8 percent through the incumbent’s whole term, he or she will probably be returned to power. And this means that there’s remarkably little political pressure to end our continuing, if low-grade, depression.
这么说吧：如果失业率在选举年从6%升到7%，那么在任候选人可能会输。但如果在其任内始终保持着8%的水平，他或她可能会重掌大权。这意味着，我们目前这种虽不严重但持续存在的衰退，政治上几乎不构成压力。
Someday, I suppose, something will turn up that finally gets us back to full employment. But I can’t help recalling that the last time we were in this kind of situation, the thing that eventually turned up was World War II.
我想，有朝一日会发生个什么事，最终让我们重回充分就业。但是我禁不住回想起上一次我们遇到这种局面，那次发生的事，是第二次世界大战。