BRUSSELS — Expressing alarm at the lethal escalation of political violence in Ukraine, the European Union and the United States scrambled for a quick response Wednesday, threatening punitive sanctions against senior figures in the Ukrainian government. The Obama administration later said it had placed 20 top Ukrainian officials on a visa blacklist.
布鲁塞尔——周三，欧盟和美国争相作出快速回应，对乌克兰政治暴力的致命性升级表示深切担忧，并威胁要对乌克兰政府的高层人物实施惩罚性制裁。奥巴马政府随后表示，美国已将20名乌克兰高官列入签证黑名单。
European diplomats and senior officials in Brussels began working on the logistics of imposing sanctions, in preparation for an emergency meeting of European Union foreign ministers called for Thursday.
欧洲外交官和布鲁塞尔的高级官员已经开始商讨实施制裁的保障工作，为周四召开的欧盟外长紧急会议做准备。
They also announced that the French, German and Polish foreign ministers would visit Kiev beforehand, to meet with members of the government and the opposition.
他们还宣布，法国、德国和波兰的外长将事先访问基辅，与政府及反对派成员会面。
President Obama warned the Ukrainian military to stay out of the crisis. “We have been watching very carefully and we expect the Ukrainian government to show restraint, to not resort to violence in dealing with peaceful protesters,” Mr. Obama said during a one-day visit to Mexico to meet with Mexican and Canadian counterparts. “There will be consequences if people step over the line.”
奥巴马警告乌克兰军队不要介入这场危机。“我们一直在密切观察，并希望乌克兰政府保持克制，不要对和平抗议者使用暴力，”奥巴马在访问墨西哥期间表示，“如果人们越过这条界线，将会产生种种后果。”此次访问为期一天，其间奥巴马与墨西哥及加拿大总统举行了会晤。
In Washington, the State Department said it had imposed a visa ban on 20 senior Ukrainian officials, whom it accused of playing a role in the government’s crackdown. The State Department declined to say which officials were on the blacklist, which prevents them from traveling to the United States, but a senior State Department official said, “the list today includes the full chain of command responsible for ordering the violence last night.”
在华盛顿，国务院(State Department)表示，该机构已禁止向20名被控参与政府镇压行动的乌克兰高官发放签证。国务院拒绝透露哪些官员被列入了黑名单，名单上的人将无法进入美国。不过，国务院一名高级官员表示，“今天的名单涵盖了下令实施昨晚暴力行动的整个指挥链条。”
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that if the violence continued, the United States, working with the European Union, would impose sanctions against Ukrainian officials “in a much broader and deeper way.”
要求匿名的上述官员表示，如果暴力冲突继续下去，美国将会与欧盟合作，以“远比现在广泛深入的方式”对乌克兰官员施加制裁。
While this official said there were no signs of military involvement in the crackdown on Tuesday night, American officials were closely monitoring a “changing of the guard” at military barracks on Wednesday, saying it raised concerns that troops could be yet mobilized.
虽然这名官员表示，没有迹象表明军队参与了周二晚间的镇压行动，美国官员周三仍在密切监控军队营区的一次“卫兵换岗”，称此举让人担心政府已经调动军队。
Earlier Wednesday Secretary of State John Kerry, who was visiting Paris for meetings on the Middle East, had also warned that the United States might join a European sanctions response to the Ukraine crisis. “We are talking about the possibility of sanctions or other steps with our friends in Europe and elsewhere,” Mr. Kerry said in a joint appearance in Paris with the French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius.
周三早些时候，正在为中东会议事宜访问巴黎的国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)也提出警告，称美国可能会加入欧洲的制裁计划，应对乌克兰危机。与法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)在巴黎一同露面时，克里表示，“我们正在与欧洲及其他地方的朋友讨论制裁或其他举措的可能性。”
President François Hollande of France, speaking at a joint news conference with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany after a regularly scheduled meeting in Paris, said, “There are unspeakable, unacceptable, intolerable acts being carried out in Ukraine.”
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)在巴黎与德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)举行了常规会晤，并在之后的联合新闻发布会上表示，“乌克兰正在实施无法形容、不可接受、无法容忍的行动。”
Ms. Merkel, condemning the “shocking pictures which are reaching us from Ukraine,” made plain that sanctions would be applied against those responsible for the violence. E.U. foreign ministers have only to decide “which specific sanctions should be applied,” she said.
默克尔谴责了“从乌克兰传来的骇人景象”，并且明确表示，应该对暴力事件的责任人实施制裁。她表示，欧盟外长需要决定的只是“应该采用的具体制裁措施”。
“But sanctions alone are not enough,” she added. “We have to get the political process going again,” including both government and opposition representatives.
“不过，只进行制裁是不够的，”她补充说。“我们需要重启政治进程”，让政府和反对派的代表都参与进来。
She added that the French and German foreign ministers and top officials were using every available channel, including to Russia, to defuse the crisis.
她还表示，法德两国的外长及高级官员正在通过一切可用渠道化解危机，包括与俄罗斯进行接触。
Mr. Kerry said the purpose of his warning to Ukraine was to “create the environment for compromise,” and that United States did not think it was too late for Ukraine’s president, Viktor F. Yanukovych, to negotiate with the opposition.
克里说，他警告乌克兰的目的是“为妥协创造环境”，而美国并不认为，乌克兰总统维克托·F·亚努科维奇已经没有时间与反对派进行谈判。
“President Yanukovych has the opportunity to make a choice,” Mr. Kerry said. “Our desire is for Mr. Yanukovych to bring people together, dialogue with the opposition, find the measure of compromise and put the broad interests of the people of Ukraine out front.”
克里说，“亚努科维奇总统有机会做出选择。我们对亚努科维奇的希望是团结人民，和反对派对话，找出妥协方案，把乌克兰人民的广泛利益摆在前面。”
Obama administration officials have said in recent weeks that the United States was prepared to move ahead with sanctions if Mr. Yanukovych cracked down on the opposition. American officials signaled on Wednesday morning that sanctions were under consideration.
最近几周，奥巴马政府官员已表示，如果亚努科维奇镇压反对派，美国已准备好采取行动推进制裁。美国官员在周三上午暗示，他们正在考虑实施制裁。
The imposition of so-called smart sanctions is a standard foreign policy reflex of the European Union when confronted by acts of violence. Over the years, officials have honed a system for identifying individuals deemed responsible for repression, usually imposing a travel ban preventing visits to the 28-nation European Union and often freezing bank accounts.
实施所谓的精明制裁，是欧盟面对暴力局面时标准的外交政策反应机制。多年以来，官员们已经打磨出一种制度，通过它来确定被指对迫害行径负有责任的个人，之后通常会发布旅行禁令，禁止这些人前往欧盟的28个成员国，常常还会冻结他们的银行账户。
Experts debate their effectiveness when applied to countries like Zimbabwe, but their likely use in this case underlines the extent to which the bloc’s efforts to use its influence in its own neighborhood have faltered.
这套制度对津巴布韦之类的国家是否有效，专家们仍有争议，不过，欧盟打算为目前局势采纳这套制度，突显欧盟对邻国发挥自身影响力的努力遭到了严重的挫败。
Nevertheless, they appear highly likely to be introduced, José Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, the executive arm of the 28-nation bloc, having also said he expects targeted measures against those responsible for violence.
尽管如此，这套制度被实施的可能性依然非常大，欧盟委员会(European Commission)主席若泽•曼努埃尔•巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)也表示，他期待能对暴力行动的责任人实施定向制裁。欧盟委员会是这个28国组织的执行机构。
Elmar Brok, chairman of the European Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, called for sanctions against specific individuals responsible for the violence. “This is not the time for news releases,” he told a news conference in Brussels. “We don’t call for sanctions against Ukraine but against certain responsible people.”
欧洲议会(European Parliament)外事委员会主席埃尔马·布罗克(Elmar Brok)呼吁对暴力行动的特定责任人实施制裁。他在布鲁塞尔的新闻发布会上说，“这不是发布新闻的时候。我们呼吁制裁不是针对乌克兰，而是针对特定的责任人。”
Mr. Brok suggested a travel ban on leadership figures and measures to investigate the bank accounts held by individuals in countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and Britain.
布罗克建议对乌克兰的领导人物发布旅行禁令，并采取措施调查这些人在德国、荷兰和英国等地持有的银行账户。
He was speaking alongside Ruslana Lyzhychko, a Ukrainian pop singer and protest leader, who said she would go on hunger strike if such sanctions were not introduced.
发表上述言论时，他正和乌克兰流行歌手及抗议领袖鲁斯兰娜·雷日奇科(Ruslana Lyzhychko)在一起，后者说，如果不实施此类制裁，她就要绝食抗议。
If officials and diplomats decided on Wednesday and Thursday to go ahead with sanctions against individuals, they would be agreed formally by European foreign ministers at their emergency meeting Thursday. Any list of those targeted would normally be made public only when published in the European Union’s Official Journal, which puts sanctions into legal effect. The earliest that is likely would be Friday. The system is designed to avoid giving warning to those whose bank accounts are about to be frozen.
如果官员和外交官在周三和周四决定推进针对个人的制裁措施，欧洲各国外长就会在周四的紧急会议上正式批准实施制裁。制裁对象名单通常要到欧盟官方公报刊登之后才会公之于众，名单的刊登将使制裁产生法律效力。可能的最早生效日是本周五。这种制度的意图是不让那些银行账号将被冻结的人得到预警。
The German foreign minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, also issued a warning to the Ukrainian government. “Whoever is responsible for the decisions which have led to the bloodshed in Kiev and other parts of Ukraine should expect Europe to reconsider its position on imposing sanctions on individuals,” Mr. Steinmeier said in a statement, as lethal mayhem engulfed the center of Kiev Tuesday night.
德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)也向乌克兰政府发出了警告。周二晚间，死伤惨重的暴力行动席卷了基辅市中心，在此背景下，施泰因迈尔在一则声明里表示，“不管是谁做出了导致基辅和乌克兰其他地区发生流血事件的决定，此人都应该想到，欧洲会重新考虑自身对于制裁个人的立场。”