It was once common for elementary-school teachers to arrange their classrooms by ability, placing the highest-achieving students in one cluster, the lowest in another. But ability grouping and its close cousin, tracking, in which children take different classes based on their proficiency levels, fell out of favor in the late 1980s and the 1990s as critics charged that they perpetuated inequality by trapping poor and minority students in low-level groups.
老师按照学生的能力水平进行分组，将表现优异的学生分在一组，表现差的学生分在另一组，以前这种现象在美国小学很普遍。而能力分班相对能力分组而言也是大同小异，能力分班就是根据孩子们能力水平把他们分到不同的班级，这样的教学方式到20世纪80年代末至90年代就因为广受诟病而不再流行了。批评人士认为，这种将贫困生和少数族裔学生分到差生班的教学方式会使这些学生一直保持弱势，有失公平。
Now ability grouping has re-emerged in classrooms all over the country — a trend that has surprised education experts who believed the outcry had all but ended its use.
教育专家们以为这种教学方式已经在抗议声中消亡了，但是现在能力分组教学又有了卷土重来的架势，这让专家们也大感吃惊。
A new analysis of data collected by the government’s National Assessment of Educational Progress shows that of the fourth-grade teachers surveyed, 71 percent said they had grouped students by reading ability in 2009, up from 28 percent in 1998. The analysis, by Tom Loveless, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said that in math, 61 percent of fourth-grade teachers reported ability grouping in 2011, up from 40 percent in 1996.
美国国家教育进展评估（National Assessment of Educational Progress，简称NAEP）新近的一份数据分析报告表明，在受访的四年级教师中，1998年将学生按阅读能力进行分组的教师比例为28%，而到2009年，这一比例飙升至71%。这份由布鲁金斯学会(The Brookings Institution)高级分析师汤姆·洛夫莱斯(Tom Loveless)撰写的报告显示，对四年级数学老师的问卷调查表明，按学生能力分组进行教学的老师比例从1996年的40%上升到了2011年的61%。
“These practices were essentially stigmatized,” said Mr. Loveless, who first noted the returning trend in a March report, and who has studied the grouping debate. “It’s kind of gone underground, it’s become less controversial.”
洛夫莱斯说：“分组教学方式曾经可以说是声名狼藉了。”他在3月份的报告中首次指出这种教学方式卷土重来的势头。洛夫莱斯一直研究有关分组教学方面的争论，他说：“现在有的学校只是偷偷地采取这种做法，因此争议没那么大了。”
The resurgence of ability grouping comes as New York City grapples with the state of its gifted and talented programs — a form of tracking in some public schools in which certain students, selected through testing, take accelerated classes together.
在能力分组教学方式复兴之际，纽约市正在焦头烂额地应对一些公立学校开设的天才与资优教育精英班项目。这种天才班的模式是通过测试将一些学生选拔出来进入速成班。
These programs, which serve about 3 percent of the elementary school population, are dominated by white and Asian students.
这些天才班项目的受众人数仅为美国小学生总人数的3%左右，并且由白人和亚裔学生占据主导地位。
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker who is running for mayor, has proposed expanding the number of gifted classes while broadening the criteria for admission in hopes of increasing diversity. (The city’s Education Department has opposed the proposal, saying that using criteria other than tests would dilute the classes.)
纽约市现任议会议长克莉丝汀·C·奎恩(Christine C. Quinn)目前正在竞选该市市长，她提议增加天才班的数量，并且加宽招收标准以增加学生的多样性。（纽约市的教育部门反对这项提案，理由是如果使用考试以外的其他招收标准就淡化了天才班的意义。）
Teachers and principals who use grouping say that the practice has become indispensable, helping them cope with widely varying levels of ability and achievement.
采用能力分组教学方式的老师和校长们说，这已经成为不可或缺的教育方法，有助于应对学习能力以及学习成绩参差不齐的各类学生。
When Jill Sears began teaching elementary school in New Hampshire 17 years ago, the second graders in her class showed up on the first day with a bewildering mix of strengths and weaknesses. Some children coasted through math worksheets in a few minutes, she said; others struggled to finish half a page. The swifter students, bored, would make mischief, while the slowest would become frustrated, give up and act out.
17年前，当吉尔·西尔斯(Jill Sears)刚到新罕布什尔州的一所小学教书时，第一天给二年级的学生上课，她就发现了学生们良莠不齐。她说，一些学生几分钟内就做完了数学题，而另一些学生绞尽脑汁也只完成了半页。于是那些反应较快的学生就会觉得无所事事，进而无事生非，而那些做得最慢的学生则会沮丧泄气，失去学习兴趣继而放弃学习。
“My instruction aimed at the middle of my class, and was leaving out approximately two-thirds of my learners,” said Ms. Sears, a fourth-grade teacher at Woodman Park Elementary in Dover, N.H. “I didn’t like those odds.”
目前在新罕布什尔州多佛市伍德曼帕克小学(Woodman Park Elementary)担任四年级教师的西尔斯女士说：“把教学目标定位在学生们的平均水平，而不考虑其他将近三分之二的学生的情况。这让我很难接受。”
So she completely reorganized her classroom. About a decade ago, instead of teaching all her students as one group, she began ability grouping, teaching all groups the same material but tailoring activities and assignments to each group.
因此，她对班里做了彻底的重新调整。大约10年前，她不再将班上所有的学生放在一起授课，取而代之的是能力分组教学方式，她对所有学生还是采用同样的教材，但是针对每个不同的小组做了不同的教案，布置不同的作业。
“I just knew that for me to have any sanity at the end of the day, I could just make these changes,” she said.
她说：“我知道我能去做那样的改变，这让我每天放学后都保持平静的心境。”
While acknowledging that wide variation in classrooms poses a challenge, critics of grouping — including education researchers and civil rights groups — argued in the 1980s and 1990s that the practice inevitably divided students according to traits corresponding with achievement, like race and class. Some states began recommending that schools end grouping in the 1990s, amid concerns that teachers’ expectations for students were shaped by the initial groupings, confining students to rigid tracks and leading teachers to devote fewer resources to low-achieving students.
尽管包括一些教育专家和民权团体在内的批评者也承认一个班级中学生间存在的巨大差异对教学工作来说是一项挑战，但是在20世纪80年代至90年代期间，他们还是抗议这种能力分组教学方式，批评者们声称，这种做法不可避免地会将学生按照与成绩相关的特点进行分类，比如种族与阶层。由于担心一开始的分组就让老师对学生的期望固化，狭隘地限制在某个层面，导致对成绩较差的学生投入更少的资源，美国一些州在20世纪90年代开始建议学校取消这种能力分组教学方式。
“The kids who are thought of as the least able end up with the fewest opportunities and resources and positive learning environments,” said Jeannie Oakes, author of “Keeping Track: How Schools Structure Inequality,” a popular critique of grouping. “The potential benefit is so far outweighed by the very known and well-documented risks.”
珍妮·奥克斯(Jeannie Oakes)著有颇为流行的《能力分班教学：学校教育如何造成不平等？》(Keeping Track: How Schools Structure Inequality)一书，批评了能力分组教学方式。她说：“那些被分到差生组的学生，获得的机会和资源是最少的，学习氛围也是最差的，”奥克斯还说：“目前关于能力分组教学方式已知的和有据可查的风险远高于它所能带来的潜在好处。”
Though the issue is one of the most frequently studied by education scholars, there is little consensus about grouping’s effects.
虽然能力分组教学方式是教育学者研究最多的课题之一，但是对于其影响却鲜有共识。
Some studies indicate that grouping can damage students’ self-esteem by consigning them to lower-tier groups; others suggest that it produces the opposite effect by ensuring that more advanced students do not make their less advanced peers feel inadequate. Some studies conclude that grouping improves test scores in students of all levels, others that it helps high-achieving students while harming low-achieving ones, and still others say that it has little effect.
一些研究表明，能力分组教学将一些学生分到差生组会伤害到他们的自尊心；另一些研究则指出，能力分组教学恰恰可以避免这种情况，让那些资质欠佳的孩子在与同龄孩子的对比中不会感到自卑。有一些研究说，能力分组教学可以提高所有学生的考试成绩；另外还有一些研究则称，能力分组教学让好学生更好，差生更差，甚至还有一些研究说，能力分组教学根本没什么用。
Proponents of grouping argue that without it, teachers are forced to teach to the middle, leaving out both struggling children and gifted learners. They also say there is a “peer effect,” in which high-achieving children do better if paired with other high-achieving students. Done judiciously and flexibly, they say, grouping can help all students. The reasons for the resurgence are unclear. Some experts attribute it to No Child Left Behind, the 2001 law that strengthened accountability standards for schools. By forcing teachers to focus on students who fell just below the proficiency cutoff, the law may have encouraged teachers to group struggling students together to prepare them for standardized tests.
拥护能力分组教学方式的人认为，不这样分组，老师只能按照学生的平均水平进行授课，差生和优等生都将无法顾及。他们还认为，优等生在一起会产生“同伴效应”，使其学得更好。他们说，如果处理得当并且措施灵活，那么能力分组教学可以使所有学生都受益。能力分组教学方式重新流行起来的原因尚不清楚。一些专家将这归因于2001年美国总统签署的《不让一个孩子掉队》法案(No Child Left Behind)，该法案用法律的形式加强了对学校的问责标准，要求教师更多关注那些资质平庸的学生，鼓励老师对跟不上进度的学生进行小组补习，以帮助那些学生来准备标准化考试。
Technology might have also played a role, Mr. Loveless said, with teachers becoming more comfortable using computers to allow children to learn at different speeds.
洛夫莱斯说，科技的发展可能也起到了一定作用，随着老师在教学中越来越多使用电脑，这也能够更方便地让学生按不同的进度学习。
In interviews, several teachers said they believed modern-day grouping was not discriminatory because the groups were constantly in flux. But they acknowledged the additional challenge of tailoring instruction to different groups, as they must produce multiple lesson plans and keep closer track of students’ progress.
在采访中，一些老师表示，现在能力分组教学中的学生成员一直在调整，所以他们觉得能力分组教学并不存在歧视对待的问题。但是他们也承认，当他们必须制定多个授课计划以及密切跟踪学生们的学习进度时，在针对不同小组制定不同教案方面的确带来了额外的考验。
At Public School 156 in Brownsville, Brooklyn, which enrolls mostly African-American and Hispanic children, many living in homeless shelters, Cathy Vail randomly sorts her fifth graders at the beginning of the year using lettered sticks. After six weeks of testing and observing them, she shifts them into “teams” of seven or eight.
在纽约市布鲁克林区布朗斯维尔156公立学校(Public School 156)，学生大多是非洲裔和西班牙裔，他们中有很多人都住在庇护所里。凯茜·韦尔(Cathy Vail)教五年级，开学时，她用字母棒随机将学生进行了分组。通过六周的观察以及测试，她重新将学生们分组，每组七到八名学生。
Children may be assigned to different groups for reading and math, and can switch groups if they have shown progress, struggle to get along with other students in a group or need extra help with a particular lesson. Ms. Vail uses thrice-yearly reading assessments and a test before each math unit to make sure children do not remain in groups that are too advanced or too slow for them, she said; one student this year, for instance, has moved up two groups in both reading and math.
学生可能因为阅读能力和数学水平不同被分到不同的小组里，当他们在小组中取得了进步或者跟不上同组的其他同学需要额外辅导时，可以换到其他合适的小组。韦尔女士每年会进行三次阅读评估，并且在每一个新的数学单元开始前都会进行测试，以确保同一组中的孩子们学习进度基本相同。她说，比如今年就有一个学生，同时在阅读能力和数学水平上提升了两个小组层次。
Ms. Vail teaches the same lesson, whether it is a math concept or a book, to the entire class, but gives each group a different assignment. Working on each week’s set of new vocabulary words, all four groups draw illustrations and write captions using the assigned words, but she encourages team C, her highest-achieving group, to write more complex sentences, perhaps using two new vocabulary words in the same sentence. She also asks children in team C to peer-teach students in the other groups.
对于整个班级来说，不管是讨论一个数学定义还是一整本教材，韦尔女士教授课程的内容是一样的，但是她给每个小组分配的课业任务是不同的。她每周制定新的词汇表，四个小组中所有的学生都要根据指定的单词来绘制插图以及写标题，但是她鼓励表现最佳的C小组学生尝试写更复杂的句子，最好能在造一个新句时使用两个新单词。她还让C组里的孩子们帮助其他小组的同学一起学习。
“At the end of the day, they’re learning the same words, but just with different levels of complexity and nuance,” she said.
她说：“在每天放学时，他们都学到了同样的词汇，只是在对词汇的复杂性和细微差别上认知不同。”
When she moves students to new groups, she tells them it is because she can best help them there, and she believes they see the grouping positively, she said.
她说，每当把学生们调换到另一个小组时，她总是告诉孩子们这是为了更好地帮助他们学习，她认为学生们都能积极地看待能力分组问题。
“It has to be done properly — you can’t make a kid feel small because they’re in group A,” her lowest-achieving group, she said. “If you don’t have a stigma attached to the group, then I don’t see the problem.”
“对于A组的孩子们，必须妥善处理，不能让他们有自卑感，”在谈到表现最平庸的A组时，她说：“只要A组的孩子没有感受到任何的自卑压力，那么我觉得能力分组教学方式不存在什么问题。”
In Ms. Sears’s classroom at Woodman Elementary in Dover, the three or four groups of students rotate throughout the day, some being taught on the rug while others work in desk clusters. Before each unit, she groups the 26 children based on initial assessments, takes a few days to observe them in the smaller groups and revises the groups again, sometimes as often as every day.
在多佛市伍德曼小学西尔斯老师的班上，每天会对三到四个小组进行滚动授课，一些坐在地毯上上课，而另一些则聚集在书桌那儿学习。每个新单元开始学习前，她先根据初步评估结果对26名学生进行分组，用几天的时间来观察他们在小组中的表现，然后重新调整分组，有时候这种调整每天都会进行。
In the decimal unit, one group might learn to add decimals using blocks they can manipulate with their hands, while another might be able to draw the models on their own. Yet another might practice using the algorithm for adding. The last group might be asked to analyze a word problem and apply the calculation.
在学习十进制小数的时候，一组学生可能会通过用手摆放积木来学习添加小数点，而另一组学生可能要自己画出模型。还有一组学生可能用计算法则来练习添加小数点。最后一组学生可能会被要求分析一道应用题，将小数点计算运用进去。
“I can really hone in on their performance and see if they need to move up to a group that will help them access the same content in a way that works for them,” said Ms. Sears, who refers to the technique as dynamic grouping. “Are they an abstract learner, are they someone who needs to draw a picture, are they someone who needs to move their body, are they someone that likes to work alone?”
“我可以进一步观察他们的表现，以便及时把他们调整到进度合适的小组，这样更有利于他们的学习，”西尔斯女士说，她把这种教学方式叫做动态分组。“哪些学生善于抽象思维，哪些学生需要通过画图来理解，哪些学生喜欢肢体交流，哪些学生喜欢独立思考？”
She said the minority children in her class were more or less evenly distributed among the groups.
她说，她班里的少数族裔学生基本上都被平均分配到了各个组里。
African-American and Hispanic children make up about 15 percent of Woodman’s population, its principal, Patrick Boodey, said. More than half of the school’s students are eligible for free or reduced lunch. Socioeconomic factors are a stronger indicator of where a student will end up than race, he said, with minorities spread among groups but with many poorer children congregating in lower-tier groups and remedial programs.
伍德曼小学校长帕特里克·布德(Patrick Boodey)说，非洲裔和西班牙裔的孩子约占他们学校总人数的15%，而该校有超过一半的学生享受政府免费午饭或者优惠午餐。社会经济因素往往比种族因素更能影响到一个学生的分组，布德说，少数族裔学生分散到各个小组中，但是许多贫困生则被分到了较差的小组以及补习班。
Ability grouping in reading has been a common practice at the school for at least a decade, and more teachers are beginning to group children in math as well, he said. The school has so embraced the practice that Ms. Sears will go to Maine this summer to train teachers in two districts in grouping.
他还说，学校按阅读能力将学生进行分组作为一种常用的教学方法，至少已经有十年了，并且有越来越多的老师在数学教学上也采用相同的方法。学校非常认可这种教学方式，所以今年暑假西尔斯女士将会被派往缅因州，在那里对两个区的老师进行能力分组教学方式的培训。
“Dynamic grouping is the norm, and it’s going to continue to be,” Mr. Boodey said.
布德先生说：“动态分组教学已经是一项常规的教学方法，以后还将继续沿用。”