WASHINGTON — The United States prepared Monday to impose sanctions on high-level Russian officials involved in the military occupation of Crimea, as the escalating crisis in Ukraine sparked turmoil in global markets, pounding the Russian ruble and driving up energy prices.
华盛顿——不断升级的乌克兰危机在全球市场引发动荡，致使俄罗斯货币卢布遭受重创，能源价格上涨。在此背景下，美国周一准备对与军事占领克里米亚有关的俄罗斯高级官员实施制裁。
The Obama administration suspended military ties to Russia, including exercises, port visits and planning meetings, just a day after calling off trade talks. If Moscow does not reverse course, officials said they will ban visas and freeze assets of select Russian officials in the chain of command as well as target state-run financial institutions. Congressional leaders signaled that they would follow with sanctions of their own, plus quickly approve economic aid for the fragile new pro-Western government in Ukraine and follow with sanctions of their own.
就在取消贸易谈判一天后，奥巴马政府暂时中断了与俄罗斯的军方交往，包括演习、港口访问及计划会议。官员们称，如果莫斯科方面不改弦更张，他们将禁止向俄罗斯指挥链条及部分国有金融机构中的某些官员发放签证，冻结他们的资产。国会领导人也已释放信号，表明他们将拿出自己的制裁措施，还会迅速批准相关的经济救援计划，支持地位不稳、亲西方的乌克兰新政府。
The besieged Kiev government said Monday that the Russians had deployed 16,000 troops in the region over the past week and had demanded that Ukrainian forces there surrender within hours or face armed assault. While Russia denied it had issued any ultimatums, it was clearly moving to strengthen its grip on Crimea, the largely Russian-speaking peninsula in southern Ukraine where Moscow has long maintained a military base.
陷入困境的基辅政府周一表示，俄罗斯上周在克里米亚地区部署了1.6万名士兵，并要求当地的乌克兰军队在几个小时内投降，否则将面临武装突袭。俄罗斯否认己方发布了最后通牒，但却明显在采取行动加强对克里米亚的控制。克里米亚半岛位于乌克兰南部，大多数居民说俄罗斯语，俄罗斯长期在该地设有军事基地。
In response to the Russian moves, European leaders have indicated Monday that they would go along with limited action like suspending unrelated talks with Moscow and halting arms sales, but they have resisted more sweeping efforts to curb commercial activity and investment in Russia.
为了回应俄罗斯的行动，欧洲领导人周一表示，他们将同意开展有限的行动，比如暂停与莫斯科方面举行与此无关的会谈，停止武器销售。不过，他们拒绝以更为全面的举措来抑制在俄罗斯的商业活动和投资。
German officials emphasized the need for diplomacy, while Dutch diplomats ruled out sanctions for now. A British government document photographed by a journalist said the government of Prince Minister David Cameron would not support trade sanctions or block Russian money from the British market.
德国官员强调外交手段的必要性，荷兰外交官则暂不考虑制裁举措。一名记者拍摄的一份英国政府文件显示，首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)领导的政府不会支持贸易制裁举措，也不会阻止俄罗斯的资金进入英国市场。
Without European backing, American officials worry that economic sanctions may not carry enough bite to persuade President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to reverse course in Ukraine. By itself, the United States is not even among Russia’s top 10 trading partners, with no more than $40 billion in exports and imports exchanged between the two each year. By contrast, Europe does about $340 billion in business with Russia, giving it far more potential clout, but also exposing it to far more potential risk.
美国官员担心，没有欧洲国家的支持，经济制裁可能不会具有足够大的儆惩力度，无法说服俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)调转在乌克兰的行动方向。美国自身连俄罗斯贸易伙伴的前十名都进不了，美俄两国的年进出口总额不超过400亿美元（约合2460亿元人民币）。相比之下，欧洲与俄罗斯的贸易总额约为3400亿美元，这为欧洲带来了远远大于美国的潜在影响力，但也使欧洲面临远远大于美国的潜在风险。
“It’s particularly important for the United States to bring Europe along,” said Julianne Smith, a former national security aide to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “To the extent that the United States tries to put economic pressure on Russian industry, they won’t feel the impact as much as they would if we had Europe standing with us. That’s easier said than done.”
“对于美国来说，拉欧洲入伙尤其重要，”曾为副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)担任国家安全助理的茱莉安·史密斯(Julianne Smith)说。“就美国设法对俄罗斯工业施加经济压力来说，他们不会感受到太大的冲击，除非我们获得了欧洲的支持。这事情说来容易，做到却很难。”
Even without taking action, Western officials hoped the immediate and unscripted reaction of world markets would give Moscow pause. Russia’s benchmark stock index dropped 9.4 percent and the ruble fell to a record low against the dollar. The Russian central bank took the extraordinary step of raising interest rates by 1.5 percentage points, spending an estimated $20 billion to support the currency.
西方国家的官员希望，即便不采取行动，国际市场即时的自然反应也会促使莫斯科方面停止行动。俄罗斯的基准股指下跌了9.4%，卢布兑美元的汇率跌至新低。俄罗斯中央银行采取非常举措，将利率提高了1.5个百分点，耗费了估计多达200亿美元的资金来支持其货币。
In his first public comments on the confrontation in three days, President Obama said Monday that he was focused on assembling an economic aid package to shore up the Ukrainian government and asked that Congress make it “the first order of business,” drawing quick endorsements on Capitol Hill.
周一，奥巴马就此次冲突发表了三天以来的首次公开评论。他表示，他的关注点在于组织一个经济救援计划来为乌克兰政府提供支持。他要求国会把此事列为“首要任务”，并且立即得到了国会的认可。
“What we are also indicating to the Russians,” Mr. Obama added, “is that if, in fact, they continue on the current trajectory that they’re on, that we are examining a whole series of steps — economic, diplomatic — that will isolate Russia and will have a negative impact on Russia’s economy and its standing in the world.”. “It is likely that we will put those in place, and we are preparing that right now.”
“我们还要向俄罗斯人表明，”奥巴马接着说，“事实上，如果他们继续按照目前的路线行事，我们就会考虑采取一整套举措——经济上的、外交上的——这些举措将使俄罗斯陷于孤立，还会对俄罗斯的经济及国际地位产生负面影响。”“我们很可能会将这些举措付诸实施，目前就在进行相关的准备工作。”
Russia responded that it was only protecting its interests and those of Russians in Ukraine. “Those who try to interpret the situation as an act of aggression, threaten us with sanctions and boycotts, are the same partners who have been consistently and vigorously encouraging the political powers close to them to declare ultimatums and renounce dialogue,” Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, said in a speech in Geneva.
俄罗斯回应称，它只是在保护自身利益与乌克兰俄罗斯人的利益。“那些想把这种情况解释为侵略、用制裁和抵制来威胁我们的人，正是那些一直在大力怂恿与他们关系密切的政治势力发布最后通牒并放弃对话的人，”俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)在日内瓦发表演讲时说。
The Pentagon press secretary, Rear Adm. John Kirby, said in a statement: “Although the Department of Defense finds value in the military-to-military relationship with the Russian Federation we have developed over the past few years to increase transparency, build understanding, and reduce the risk of military miscalculation we have, in light of recent events in Ukraine, put on hold all military-to-military engagements between the United States and Russia.”  The crisis prompted tense meetings at the United Nations, the NATO alliance and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. NATO called its second emergency meeting on Ukraine in response to a request from Poland under Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty relating to threats to a member state’s security and independence.
五角大楼新闻秘书、海军少将约翰·柯比(John Kirby)在声明中表示：“过去几年，为了增加透明度、建立互信、减少发生军事误判的风险，我们与俄罗斯联邦建立了军事联系。国防部认为这种联系确有价值，但由于乌克兰近期发生的事情，我们已经暂停了美国与俄罗斯之间的所有军事联系。”由于此次危机，联合国(United Nations)、北约(NATO)联盟和欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)纷纷召开了气氛紧张的会议。北约召开了关于乌克兰问题的第二次紧急会议，因为波兰依据北大西洋公约(North Atlantic Treaty)第四条的规定提出了请求，该条款与危及北约成员国安全与独立的威胁有关。
Meeting in Brussels, European Union foreign ministers called on Moscow to return its troops to their bases and threatened to freeze visa liberalization and economic cooperation talks and skip a Group of 8 summit meeting to be hosted by Russia in June. Heads of the European Union governments will meet in emergency session on Thursday to discuss the measures.
欧盟各国外长在布鲁塞尔举行了会议，要求莫斯科命令军队退回基地，并威胁要冻结签证自由化和经济合作对话、退出今年6月由俄罗斯主办的G8峰会。欧盟各国政府首脑将于周四召开紧急会议，就相关举措进行讨论。
But the Europeans made clear they are not yet willing to go as far as the United States in terms of economic strictures at this point. Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the German foreign minister, said that “crisis diplomacy is not a weakness, but it will be more important than ever to not fall into the abyss of military escalation.”
但是，欧洲已经明确表示，就目前而言，他们还不愿意采取与美国同样严厉的经济对策。德国外长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank-Walter Steinmeier)说，“危机外交没有什么错，然而，空前重要的事情是不要陷入军事升级的深渊。”