A 1,200-square-foot house that Frank Lloyd Wright designed to perch on a Los Angeles hillside will be auctioned next month, with most of its contents sold separately.
弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特(Frank Lloyd Wright)在洛杉矶设计的一座住宅将于下月拍卖。此住宅面积1200平方英尺（约合111平方米），坐落在山腰。屋内大部分物件单独出售。
Los Angeles Modern Auctions will offer the 1939 home, which has a sales estimate of $2.5 million to $3 million, on Feb. 21. The four-room wood-and-brick structure, with tiers of decks, is cantilevered over a slope in the city’s Brentwood section. In 1967 the actor, playwright and librettist Jack Larson and his partner, the director and screenwriter James Bridges, purchased it for $60,000; they restored it, preserving the original furniture and coping with its persistently leaky roof.
此住宅将于2月21日由洛杉矶现代拍卖行(Los Angeles Modern Auctions)拍卖，估价250到300万美元（约合人民币1645到1974万元）。它建于1939年，带有四个房间，采用砖木结构，设有多层露台，坐落在洛杉矶布伦特伍德(Brentwood)的一座斜坡上。1967年，演员、剧作家兼编剧杰克·拉森(Jack Larson)及其合作伙伴，导演兼编剧詹姆斯·布里奇斯(James Bridges)以6万美元的价格入手，他们对房屋进行了修缮，保留了原有的家具，处理了屋顶持续漏水的问题。
The two worked on the house in collaboration with the influential Southern California architect John Lautner, who had supervised the construction for Wright’s clients, George and Selma Sturges. Mr. Bridges died in 1993, and Mr. Larson died last year.
与两人协作修缮房屋的，是南加州著名建筑师约翰·劳特纳(John Lautner)，他为赖特的客户乔治和塞尔玛·斯特奇斯(George and Selma Sturges)监理了施工工程。布里奇斯于1993年逝世，拉森于去年去世。
Los Angeles Modern is auctioning the house with two original dining chairs, various built-ins and Mr. Larson’s extensive Wright and Lautner archival material. The rest of its contents will be divided up; stools with X-shaped bases, boxy tables, pyramidal floor lamps and flanged armchairs designed by Wright or Lautner have estimates starting at a few thousand dollars each.
在洛杉矶现代拍卖行与住宅一同拍卖的，还有两把原有餐椅、各种嵌入式家居、以及拉森收藏的赖特和劳特纳档案材料。其余物件将被单独出售；无论是X形凳、四方桌、金字塔形落地灯，还是由赖特或劳特纳设计的带垫扶手椅，每一件单品的估价都是几千美元起。
The house has had a series of occupants with scholarly inclinations. Mr. Sturges, a Lockheed engineer and chess aficionado, and his wife spent a decade in the house before hiring the Modernist residential architect Edla Muir to design a more practical home nearby. Edward Lorenz, a meteorologist and chaos theorist, briefly rented the place, and Madeleine Mathiot and Paul Garvin, both linguistics scholars, owned it before Mr. Larson and Mr. Bridges purchased it.
此住宅有多任入住者具备学术背景。斯特奇斯(Sturges)是洛克希德(Lockheed)公司的工程师，也是国际象棋爱好者，他和妻子在这里住了十年，然后聘请现代主义住宅建筑师埃德拉·缪尔(Edla Muir)在附近设计了一座更实用的住宅。气象学家和混沌理论家爱德华·罗伦兹(Edward Lorenz)曾在此短暂租住。在拉森和布里奇斯买下它之前，这里的业主是玛德莲·玛迪奥(Madeleine Mathiot)和保罗·加尔文(Paul Garvin)，两个人都是语言学者。
Ms. Mathiot recalled the leaky roof in an interview, recounting that her Russian wolfhound would take refuge under a table when rain seeped in. She and Mr. Garvin sold the property soon after their son was born. “It was beautiful, but unlivable with a baby,” she said. She added that she was saddened to learn that the Wright and Lautner pieces would be auctioned separately.
玛迪奥在一次接受采访时回忆起了屋顶漏水的经历，她说，她的俄罗斯猎狼犬在漏雨时会躲到桌子底下。儿子出生后不久，她和加尔文就卖了这套房子。“这套房子很好，但是没法带着宝宝住。”她说。她还补充道，当得知赖特和洛特纳设计的家具将被分别拍卖时，她感到难过。
The plans for dispersal of the furniture have also been lamented in online postings. Janet Halstead, executive director of the Frank Lloyd Wright Building Conservancy in Chicago, wrote in an email that the Wright and Lautner pieces, whether original or added later, “certainly contribute to the context of the house, and the conservancy would strongly urge that the house and the furniture remain together.”
这样的家具处理方案也在网上引起了悲叹。芝加哥弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特建筑保护协会(Frank Lloyd Wright Building Conservancy)的执行董事珍妮特·霍尔斯特德(Janet Halstead)，在一封邮件中表示，赖特和劳特纳设计的家具，无论是原有的，还是添置的，“都肯定对住宅环境的营造做出了贡献，出于保护的目的，强烈建议不要把房子和家具分开。”
“Perhaps there is a very enlightened buyer who will try to do exactly that,” she said.
“也许会有一位非常开明的买家，他会尽力做到这一点。”她说。
Elizabeth Portanova, the auction house’s marketing director, said that the proceeds would benefit the Bridges-Larson Foundation, which supports creative endeavors. Because the house will be the first lot in the auction, she added, the winning bidder will have a chance to pursue the furniture.
拍卖行的营销总监伊丽莎白·波尔塔诺瓦(Elizabeth Portanova)表示，所得款项将捐赠布里奇斯-拉森基金会(Bridges-Larson Foundation)，该基金会致力于为创意者提供支持。波尔塔诺瓦表示，由于住宅将被首先拍卖，中标人将有机会竞拍家具。
Gilded Glory at the Frick
弗里克美术收藏馆的鎏金名品
The industrialist and philanthropist Henry Clay Frick admired his 18th-century gilded furnishings almost as much as the old master paintings that graced his palatial home. The staff of the Frick Collection is now trying to draw attention to the objects between the canvases in his former mansion.
对于实业家和慈善家亨利·克莱·弗里克(Henry Clay Frick)来说，其豪宅中的18世纪鎏金家具几乎和装点门面的经典大师画作一样值得欣赏。他的故居现为弗里克美术收藏馆(Frick Collection)。工作人员目前正试图将人们的注意力吸引到画布之间的家具上。
In the past year, the museum’s publications and shows have focused on the institution’s tapestries, Sèvres porcelain and Limoges enamels; the staff has produced a handbook on the decorative arts collection over all. In November, an exhibition will be devoted to Pierre Gouthière, a talented but now somewhat obscure 18th-century gilder.
在过去的一年里，博物馆的出版物和展出都聚焦于馆内的挂毯、塞夫勒(Sèvres)瓷器和利摩日(Limoges)珐琅制品；工作人员已编制一部手册，将所有的装饰艺术收藏品收录其中。11月将专门为皮埃尔·古谢尔(Pierre Gouthière)举办一出展览。古谢尔是一位才华横溢的18世纪鎏金师，现在知道他的人不多。
On a recent morning, Charlotte Vignon, the Frick Collection’s decorative arts curator, circled the dismantled components of a marble table from the 1780s that is being cleaned and restored. Gouthière’s Paris workshop trimmed the marble with bronze arrows, fruit, flowers, leaves, snakes, ribbons and a woman’s face enveloped in beads and braids. The reliefs are as lacy as intricate jewelry, and the foliage and petals are botanically accurate; their facets would have reflected candlelight in aristocrats’ salons.
前不久的一天上午，弗里克美术收藏馆的装饰艺术策展人夏洛特·维侬(Charlotte Vignon)在一张大理石桌的拆卸部件边徘徊。这张大理石桌制作于18世纪80年代，目前正在被清理、修整。古谢尔的巴黎工作室在这块大理石上雕琢出了青铜箭矢、花果、树叶、蛇、缎带和一张女子面庞，女子头上编有发辫，缀以珠饰。浮雕如同精致的珠宝般繁复，树叶和花瓣栩栩如生；其刻面仿佛能映照出昔日贵族沙龙里的烛光。
“Gouthière brought life to every single detail,” said Ms. Vignon, who has collaborated on a monograph in tandem with the exhibition, “Pierre Gouthière: Virtuoso Gilder at the French Court.”
“古谢尔给每一个细节都赋予了生机。”维侬表示。此次展览主题为“皮埃尔·古谢尔：法国宫廷的鎏金名师”(Pierre Gouthière: Virtuoso Gilder at the French Court)，维侬合著了随展推出的一篇专题论文。
It is not clear how Gouthière, who was born in 1732 as the son of a saddle maker in northeastern France, rose to become the pre-eminent bronze caster and gilder of the late 18th century. But by the 1760s he had married the widow of his metalsmithing mentor and his clients had included kings and their inner circles.
古谢尔出生于1732年，是法国东北部一位马鞍制造商的儿子。至于他如何跃升成了18世纪末的杰出铸铜师和鎏金师，目前尚不清楚。不过到了18世纪60年代，古谢尔迎娶了其金工师傅的遗孀，国王及其圈内人士已成为他的客户。
After the French Revolution, many of Gouthière’s patrons were executed or went into bankruptcy or exile. He died in poverty in 1813 after decades of legal battles over unpaid bills. “He had to go from trial to trial,” Ms. Vignon said.
法国大革命后，古谢尔的许多主顾要么被处决，要么破产，要么被流放。1813年，古谢尔在贫困中去世，死前几十年一直在为追讨欠款而做法律斗争。“他只能不断地上法庭。”维侬表示。
The Frick will display about 30 pieces, and the exhibition monograph will analyze about 50; it is the first major book devoted to Gouthière since 1920. His sculpted ornamentation appears on clocks, vases, sconces, fireplaces and candelabra, with details like furrowed brows on sea gods and intricately serrated swan beaks. The monograph’s authors have scoured the archives of aristocrats for references to such wares and have located drawings, prints and photos depicting lost works by the gilder.
弗里克美术收藏馆将展示约30件作品，随展推出的专题论文将分析约50件作品；这是自1920年以来专为古谢尔推出的首部大作。他的雕刻纹饰可见于钟表、花瓶，烛台、壁炉和枝形烛架，其细节栩栩如生，比如海神紧蹙的眉头，精雕细琢的锯齿状天鹅喙。专题论文的执笔者们翻遍了昔日贵族的档案，来寻访这类作品。他们找到了一些素描、版画和照片，这些资料描绘了鎏金师古谢尔散佚的作品。
The show will include a few pieces that came on the market last year. In April a pair of lidded Japanese porcelain bowls adorned with Gouthière’s bronze work and mounted on gilded bases sold for about $3 million at Sotheby’s in London. In October, a pair of porcelain-and-marble candelabra on Gouthière mounts surfaced at the Academy Mansion in Manhattan in a show organized by dealers from Paris and Rome.
此次展出将收录几件去年上市的作品。4月，一对带盖日本瓷碗以3亿美元（约合人民币20亿元）左右的价格在伦敦苏富比拍卖行(Sotheby's)售出，这对瓷碗装饰着古谢尔的青铜作品，带有鎏金底座。10月，一对枝形烛架亮相于曼哈顿Academy Mansion的一场由巴黎和罗马交易商主办的展出，这对烛架由瓷料和大理石制成，底座出自古谢尔的手笔。
The Getty Museum, which owns several pieces attributed to Gouthière, is displaying them alongside recent acquisitions of around 30 gilded clocks, vases, candelabra and andirons fashioned by his Parisian competitors.
盖蒂博物馆(Getty Museum)有几件藏品被归为古谢尔名下。馆方在展出这几件藏品的同时，还将展示最近收入的约30件鎏金钟表、花瓶、烛台和柴架，这些作品的创作者是古谢尔在巴黎的竞争对手。