The most detailed public disclosure of American intelligence spending in history shows a surprisingly dominant role for the Central Intelligence Agency, a growing emphasis on both defensive and offensive cyberoperations, and significant gaps in knowledge about targeted countries despite the sharp increase in spending after the 2001 terrorist attacks.
美国情报经费被公之于众，这次曝光是历史上最详尽的一次。它揭示出美国中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)令人吃惊的主导角色，也显示出攻击性和防御性的网络作战受到了越来越多的重视，还暴露出尽管在2001年恐怖袭击之后经费急剧增加，但对于目标国家的了解仍存在显著不足。
The top secret budget request for the current fiscal year was obtained by The Washington Post from the former N.S.A. contractor Edward J. Snowden and published in part on its Web site on Thursday. The newspaper said it was withholding most of the 178-page document at the request of government officials because “sensitive details are so pervasive” in its description of spying programs.
属于最高机密的当前财年预算申请，是《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)从前美国国家安全局(NSA)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)手中取得的，周四《邮报》将部分内容公布在了该报网站上。该报表示，应政府官员的要求，这份178页文件的大部分内容都未被公布，原因是在对间谍项目的描述中，“敏感细节比比皆是”。
The document shows that the agencies’ budget request for the year ending Sept. 30 was $52.6 billion, a small decrease from the 2011 peak of $54.6 billion, which came after a decade of rapid spending growth. Of that, the biggest share was taken by the C.I.A., which carries out traditional human spying and intelligence analysis but also now conducts drone strikes against terrorism suspects in Pakistan and Yemen.
这份文件显示，情报机关在截止于9月30日的财政年度中申请的预算为526亿美元（约合3220亿元人民币），与2011年创纪录的546亿美元相比略有下降，在那之前的十年里，情报开支一直迅速增长。中情局在这些经费中占有最大份额，该局不仅执行由情报人员参与的传统间谍活动，还开展情报分析，现在也在针对巴基斯坦和也门的恐怖主义嫌疑人进行无人机空袭。
For decades, administrations from both parties have hidden spy spending in what is popularly known as the “black budget,” asserting that letting adversaries know what the United States is spending would make the country less safe. Only since 2007 has even the total annual spending on what is called the national intelligence program been made public; another $23 billion is spent each year in a separate military intelligence budget.
几十年来，两党政府都将情报开支列入了通常称为“黑色预算”(black budget)的分类，声称让对手了解美国在花什么钱会有损于美国的安全。从2007年开始，被称为“国家情报项目”的年度开支项目总金额才被公之于众，另外，每年单列的军事情报预算还有230亿美元。
The C.I.A. asked for $14.7 billion, significantly outpacing the two big technological spy agencies, the eavesdropping National Security Agency, which sought $10.8 billion, and the National Reconnaissance Office, which operates surveillance satellites, and sought $10.3 billion.
中情局申请的预算达到147亿美元，远远高于两大技术间谍机构。进行监听的NSA申请的预算有108亿美元，负责运行监控卫星的国家侦察局(National Reconnaissance Office)申请的预算则为103亿美元。
According to The Post, the budget request included a candid account of the remaining holes in the government’s knowledge of the world despite the aggressive spying. The governments of China, Russia and Iran are hard to penetrate, but North Korea may be the hardest target of all, the document suggests.
《邮报》表示，预算申请中包括了一些坦诚的描述，称尽管大举开展间谍活动，但美国政府对世界的了解仍然存在漏洞。文件表示，中国、俄罗斯和伊朗政府难以渗透，不过朝鲜可能是最难攻克的目标。
The budget request lists five major missions for the intelligence agencies: warning American leaders about threats and instability; battling terrorism; countering weapons proliferation; cyberoperations; and counterespionage.
预算申请列出了情报机关的五大任务：就威胁和不稳定因素向美国领导人提出警告、打击恐怖主义、遏制武器扩散、网络作战，以及反间谍行动。
In a statement introducing the budget request, the director of national intelligence, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., wrote that counterterrorism efforts would be focused in particular on Yemen, Somalia and the Horn of Africa and would continue efforts in Libya “to deny terrorists a safe haven.”
在介绍预算申请的声明中，国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)写道，反恐行动将会着重关注也门、索马里和非洲之角，还会继续在利比亚的行动，“不让其成为恐怖分子的避风港”。
Despite the declining budget, Mr. Clapper said, the N.S.A.’s eavesdropping would get additional money to use on “foreign leadership targets” as well as to break the encryption used on foreign communications and “exploit Internet traffic.”
尽管预算有所下降，但克拉珀表示，NSA的监听行动将会获得更多资金，用于监听“外国领导层目标”，以及攻破外国通讯的加密，“挖掘互联网数据流”。
The 16 American spy agencies employ about 107,000 people, including some 21,800 working on contract, the document shows. The number does not include tens of thousands of contractors who work in support of the intelligence agencies, in some cases outnumbering actual employees, said Jeffrey T. Richelson, a prolific author on intelligence.
这份文件显示，美国16家情报机构共有10.7万名员工，其中约有2.18万人是合同员工。杰弗里·T·里奇尔森(Jeffrey T. Richelson)表示，但这一数字并不包含成千上万名承包商雇员，他们为情报机构从事支持性工作，在某些情况下比情报机构的实际员工还多。里奇尔森著有多本关于情报的书籍。
Mr. Richelson said he thought the N.S.A. budget figure understated the real cost of its electronic surveillance, because it omits much of the support it receives from military personnel who carry out eavesdropping on its behalf.
里奇尔森说，他认为NSA的预算数字已经被压低，没有体现电子监控的真实成本，因为它把来自军方部门的支持排除在外，这些部门也在为NSA从事窃听活动。
The latest disclosure underscores the extraordinary impact of the leaks by Mr. Snowden, 30, who has accepted temporary asylum in Russia as he tries to avoid prosecution in the United States on espionage charges.
最近的这次揭秘突显了斯诺登的泄密造成的巨大影响，现年30岁的斯诺登为躲避美国的间谍指控，已经暂时在俄罗斯避难。
The documents he took from his job as an N.S.A. contractor and provided to The Guardian, The Post and other publications have set off the most significant public debate in decades about surveillance and data collection by the government. The parts of the new budget document published by The Post, while containing no major surprises, offer by far the most granular look to date at how billions of dollars is spent for intelligence collection. (The Guardian has recently shared some of Mr. Snowden’s documents with The New York Times.)
他将供职于一家NSA承包商期间获取的文件提供给了《卫报》(Guardian)和《邮报》等刊物，从而引发近几十年来就政府监控和数据收集进行的一次最大规模的公共辩论。《邮报》公布的这部分新预算文档中没有特别出人意料的地方，但对于了解数十亿美元在情报收集工作中是怎么用掉的，这份文档提供了前所未有的详细信息。（《卫报》最近将一些斯诺登披露的文档分享给了《纽约时报》。）
Experts estimate that the government has spent about $500 billion on the intelligence agencies in the dozen years since the Sept. 11 attacks. That was a sharp increase in spending over the 1990s but is roughly what the Pentagon is spending this year alone.
9·11袭击之后这十几年里，专家估计政府在情报机构上投入了约5000亿美元。这和20世纪90年代的支出相比有大幅提高，但也就差不多和五角大楼今年一年的支出相当。
The budget called for some $278 million on N.S.A.’s “corporate partner access,” a reference to programs collecting information from Internet companies like Google and Microsoft, and more than $48 million to study “coping with information overload,” a longstanding problem for the agency.
预算中有2.78亿美元用于NSA的“企业合作机会”，这和从谷歌(Google)和微软(Microsoft)等互联网公司收集信息的项目有关，还有4800万美元用于研究一个多年来困扰着这家机构的问题：如何“处理信息的过载”。
Steven Aftergood, who runs the Project on Government Secrecy at the Federation of American Scientists and has long campaigned for greater budget transparency, said the document “highlights the ascension of the C.I.A.,” which in before the Sept. 11 era accounted for about 10 percent of intelligence spending and now approaches a third of the total.
在美国科学家联合会(Federation of American Scientists)负责政府机密项目(Project on Government Secrecy)的史蒂文·阿福特古德(Steven Aftergood)说，文档“突出表现了CIA的地位提高，”在9·11之前，这家机构在情报支出中只占大约10%，现在已经接近三分之一。
“The C.I.A. has a presence in many places where they did not 15 years ago,” Mr. Aftergood said. In addition, it has taken on a major paramilitary role in combating terrorism, notably by carrying out missile strikes from drones in places where the United States is not officially at war.
“现在CIA插手的很多地方，15年前是看不到它的身影的，”阿福特古德说。此外它还在与恐怖主义的战斗中承担起了一个主要的准军事角色，在一些美国没有正式宣战的地区用无人机发起导弹打击。
The document reveals that agency spends about $2.5 billion on covert action, including the drone program.
文档显示CIA在包括无人机项目在内的秘密行动上花费了大约25亿美元。
The budget included $4.3 billion for cyberoperations, a relatively new and increasingly central part of national security programs. That covers both intrusions into foreign computers to gather intelligence and prepare for possible cyberattack, and spending to prevent electronic spying and hacking against the United States. But it is only a fraction of the entire government spending, since the Defense Department and the Department of Homeland Security account for most cyberspending.
预算中包含43亿美元的网络行动支出，这在国家安全项目中是相对较新的一部分，但正逐渐成为核心。这些行动既包括侵入外国电脑以收集情报，防备潜在的网络攻击，也包括阻止针对美国的电子间谍和黑客行动。不过这在所有相关政府支出中只占很小一部分，因为网络领域的支出大部分在国防部(Defense Department)和国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)。
Mr. Aftergood said the document suggested that the agencies could safely be far more open about their priorities and spending without damaging national security. “We did not need this document to tell us that North Korea is a hard target,” he said.
阿福特古德说从这份文档上看，该机构完全可以在不破坏国家安全的情况下，更多地公开它的重点事项和支出。“我们不需要通过这份文档才知道朝鲜是个难对付的目标，”他说。