Late last week, I was driving my daughter to her play-based, shoe-optional, sugar-free preschool — a magical Arcadia where an actual chicken is free to roam and grow fat off Pirate’s Booty, and where the major areas of academic focus revolve around turn-taking, problem-solving and the life story of Rosa Parks — when I experienced a moment of self-doubt so paralyzing I almost had to pull over. The radio in my car was tuned to an NPR show, on which callers were debating the decision by the C.E.O. of Yahoo, Marissa Mayer, to ban employees from working from home. I’d been thinking about Mayer since early that morning, having fallen down an Internet rabbit hole that plunged me deep into her art collection, her exclusive wardrobe and her estimated $300 million net worth. Specifically, I was thinking about the rather highhanded, Marie Antoinette-ish way in which she dismissed the need for extended maternity leave, as if it hadn’t occurred to her that building an en suite nursery for her newborn next to her office basically elided the need for it, since the baby could remain within a few feet of her all day long.
上周末，我送女儿去上她那个寓教于乐、可以不穿鞋而且糖果随便吃的学前班——那是一个梦幻的世外桃源，在那里，一只真正的鸡能够自由漫步，吃着“海盗珍宝”(Pirate's Booty)牌爆米花长得肥肥的；在那里，课程的重点包括了遵守秩序、解决问题以及罗莎·帕克斯（Rosa Parks，被称为现代民权运动之母——译注）的生平故事。在路上，当我经历了一个自我怀疑的瞬间时，我差点就心烦得想要靠边停车。车里的电台正调在国家公共电台(NPR，National Public Radio)的一档节目上，几位打进电话的听众在讨论雅虎首席执行官玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)所做的禁止员工在家办公的决定。从这个上午的稍早时候起，我就一直想着梅耶尔的事，就像掉进互联网上的兔子洞一样，一路深深坠入她的艺术收藏、她的奢华衣柜以及她预计高达3亿美元的财富。特别是，我在思考她那玛丽·安托瓦内特（Marie Antoinette，法国国王路易十六的王后——译注）式的强硬作风，她觉得没有必要休满产假，好像忘记了产假之所以对她来说不重要，是因为她在办公室边为自己的新生婴儿专门建了个育儿室，让宝宝一整天都待在离她仅有几英尺远的地方。
En route to the preschool, I was suddenly visited by an apocalyptic vision of the future: I saw my daughter as a frustrated former liberal-arts major stuck in a midlevel job at a company where, despite the easy availability of 3-D holographic telepresence software allowing people all over the globe to interface with one another from the comfort of their own brain implants, employees were now required to “live from work” and occasionally beam themselves home for some cursory family face time. Moreover, I saw that I alone was to blame for this dismal state of affairs, because I am a deluded throwback to carefree days, and in my attempt to raise a conscious, creative and socially and environmentally responsible child while lacking the means to also finance her conscious, creative and environmentally and socially responsible lifestyle forever, I’d accidentally gone and raised a hothouse serf. Oops.
在去学前班的路上，我突然看到了一个极其悲观的未来前景：我看到我的女儿在从人文学科专业毕业后，沮丧地被困在一个不上不下的工作中，尽管简便易得的3D全息远程呈现(holographic telepresence)软件让全球的人们能够通过大脑中所植入的设备与他人交谈，但她所在的公司还是要求职员们“在现场工作”，偶尔把他们放回家去与家人潦草地见一下面。除此之外，我还看见我自己是这个悲惨境地的始作俑者，因为我误以为自己并没有后顾之忧，在我努力要培养一个善良、有创造力、对社会与环境负责任的孩子的过程中，却没有能力为她永远保持这种善良、有创造力、对社会与环境负责任的生活方式提供金钱上的支持，我可能不小心培养出了一个温室中的农奴。唉呀。
As Facebook’s C.O.O., Sheryl Sandberg, writes in her new book, “Lean In,” a guide for helping women claw their way to the top of the corporate heap, “the media will report endlessly about women attacking other women, which distracts from the real issues.” And it’s true; there’s something about the is-she-or-isn’t-she-a-feminist way the Mayer debate has been framed (and even about the way Mayer herself has participated in it) that feels almost deliberately obtuse. Not that it’s surprising — pretty much every issue that concerns a woman is framed as a woman’s issue. But while Mayer is, in fact, a woman, her circumstances are so rarefied that she might as well be a unicorn. So it’s interesting that the discussions about whether she is a feminist, or whether she displays sufficient empathy for her fellow working mothers, persist even after she has made it amply clear that she never intended to become a standard-bearer for the plight of working women. Furthermore, as she told PBS, she does not consider herself a feminist because she lacks “the militant drive” and “the chip on the shoulder that sometimes comes with that.” (Take that, ladies!)
Facebook的首席运营官雪莉·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)在她的新书《向前一步：女性、工作与领导意志》(Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead)中指导女性往公司高层攀登，“媒体会无休止地报道女性攻击其他女性的新闻，这与真实情况是有出入的。”这是对的，在针对梅耶尔的讨论中，关于她到底是不是一个女权主义者成为了重点议题（还有她自己的亲身参与也有些微妙），这让人感觉他们故意将这个话题粉饰得不痛不痒。这并不令人惊讶——几乎所有涉及到女性的问题都会被包装成女性议题。但是，梅耶尔的确是女人不假，可她所处的环境是如此特殊，在那里她就像独角兽一样稀有。所以对于她是否是一个女权主义者，或者她是否表现出与同样在职场打拼的母亲们存在共鸣的讨论，以及在她明确表示自己从来都没有担当职场女性困境发言人的意愿之后仍然坚持这些讨论，都是很有趣的。而且，她还告诉PBS电视台，她并不觉得自己是一个女权主义者，因为她缺少为此“战斗的动力”，而且认为“那种斗志通常是由自卑所引起的”。（女士们，接招吧！）
As Lisa Miller wrote in her 2012 New York magazine profile of Mayer: “Since her earliest days at Google, and despite a canny performance of her own ‘girliness,’ Mayer has refused to make the Woman Question part of her public persona. She doesn’t want to talk at all about how being a woman — in tech, or at Google, or in upper management — makes her different from the guys in the room or deserving of any kind of special consideration. ‘I’m a geek,’ is what she always says.”
在2012年的《纽约杂志》(New York magazine)上，丽莎·米勒(Lisa Miller)在对梅耶尔的专访中写道：“从她之前在谷歌的时候起，除了精明地表现她特有的‘女孩子气质’之外，梅耶尔拒绝在她的公众形象方面加入女性问题的那一部分。她根本就不想谈论，身为一个女人是如何让她在技术领域、谷歌或者在高级管理层中显得与众不同或者引起任何特殊思考的。‘我是一个电脑狂人，’她总是这么说。”
Which pretty much sums it up. Mayer doesn’t identify with working mothers or feminists not because she identifies with another sex or a different ideology, but because she puts herself in a different column altogether — and I don’t mean the geek column. As Miller puts it: “While American women may wish to see themselves, their maternal joys and their workplace dilemmas reflected in Mayer, it is not a sensible comparison for most. Mayer is a superstar.”
这已经足够说明问题了。梅耶尔不想被当作职场母亲或女权主义者，并不是因为她更认同另一种性别或者另一种意识形态，而是因为她把自己完全放入了另一种身份类别中——在此我指的并不是电脑狂人那个类别。就像米勒所说的：“美国女性可能希望在梅耶尔身上看到她们，看到她们为人母的快乐以及她们在职场面临的困境，对于绝大多数人来说，这个比较并没有意义。梅耶尔是一个超级明星。”
This seems to closer to the real issue, which is not feminism, or working mothers, or even Mayer or Yahoo in particular, but privilege and the choices it confers.
这看上去和问题核心更接近了，与女权主义无关，与职场母亲无关，甚至与梅耶尔和雅虎也没有太特别的关系，而是特权以及由此所得到的各种选择。
The United States is now among the most unequal countries in the world in terms of wealth distribution. In 2007, the concentration of wealth at the top reached levels not seen since 1928, and much of this is a result of C.E.O. compensation. Businessweek reported that the average C.E.O. made 42 times that of the average worker’s pay in 1980. According to an A.F.L.-C.I.O. study, a C.E.O. now makes a surreal 380 times more than the average worker. In the last 35 years, income for all but the highest earners has flattened as the costs of education and health care have soared. Paradoxically, according to some measures, Britain offers more opportunity for upward mobility than does the United States.
美国现在是全球财富分配最不平均的国家之一。2007年，美国财富的集中程度达到了1928年后的最高记录，而这种情况有很大一部分是由于首席执行官的红利收入导致的。据《商业周刊》(Businessweek)报道，在1980年，CEO们的平均收入是普通员工平均收入的42倍。而根据美国劳工联合会—产业工会联合会(A.F.L.-C.I.O.)的研究，在如今，一位CEO赚到的钱比普通员工要多380倍。在过去的35年里，除去最高收入阶级，其他人的收入上升水平和教育以及医疗所需费用的上涨持平。有些矛盾的是，根据某些衡量标准，英国向人们提供的向社会上层流动机会要比美国更多。
I encountered much of this information in a documentary called “Inequality for All,” which had its premiere earlier this year at Sundance and is being billed as “An Inconvenient Truth” for income inequality. (Full disclosure: The film, which will be released in September, was directed by my old friend Jacob Kornbluth and edited by my new friend and fellow preschool mom Kim Roberts.) The film stars Robert Reich, secretary of labor under Bill Clinton and now a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley. It’s based on a class he teaches called Wealth and Poverty, which sets out to answer three questions: What is happening in terms of the distribution of wealth in this country? Why is it happening? And is it a problem?
我是在一部叫作《所有人的不公平》(Inequality for All)的纪录片中得知上述大多数信息的，它在今年早些时候于圣丹斯国际电影节上首映，被称为收入不公平方面“难以忽视的真相”。（该电影在9月上映，由我的老朋友雅各布·科恩布鲁斯[Jacob Kornbluth]执导，由我的新朋友以及同为学前儿童母亲的金·罗伯茨[Kim Roberts]编剧）。影片的主角是罗伯特·莱克(Robert Reich)，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)政府的劳工部部长，现在是加州大学伯克利分校的一位公共政策教授。它基于他教授的一节名为《财富与贫穷》的课，该课程计划解答三个问题：在这个国家的财富分配中发生了什么事？为什么它发生了？它是一个难题吗？
Reich’s thesis is that some inequality is inevitable, even necessary, in a free-market system. But what makes an economy stable and prosperous is a strong, vibrant, growing middle class. In the three decades after World War II, a period that Reich calls “the great prosperity,” the G.I. Bill, the expansion of public universities and the rise of labor unions helped create the biggest, best-educated middle class in the world. Reich describes this as an example of a “virtuous circle” in which productivity grows, wages increase, workers buy more, companies hire more, tax revenues increase, government invests more, workers are better educated. On the flip side, when the middle class doesn’t share in the economic gains, it results over time in a downward vicious cycle: Wages stagnate, workers buy less, companies downsize, tax revenues decrease, government cuts programs, workers are less educated, unemployment rises, deficits grow. Since the crash that followed the deregulation of the financial markets, we have struggled to emerge from such a cycle.
莱克的论点是，在一个自由市场的系统中，有些不公平是无法避免的，甚至是必要的。但保持经济稳定繁荣的，是一个强大的、有活力的、不断发展的中产阶级。第二次世界大战之后的30年被莱克称为“大繁荣”时期，军人安置法案(G.I Bill)、公立大学的扩张以及劳工联盟的兴起，这些因素一起造就了世界上最大、受教育程度最高的中产阶级。莱克把它形容成一个“良性循环”的范例，在其中，生产力发展、工资提高，工人有更高的购买力，公司雇用更多的人，税收增加，政府投资更多，工人得到更好的培训。另一方面，如果中产阶级没有分享到经济成果，长久下去就会陷入恶性循环：收入停滞，工人购买力下降，公司缩小规模，失业率上升，税收减少，政府削减项目，工人受教育程度下降。由于在放松对金融市场的管制之后紧跟而来的崩溃，我们渐渐滑入了这样的一个怪圈。
At one point in the film, Reich points to a chart showing the stratospheric rise of the Dow at the beginning of the ’90s. “One of the big reasons that corporations were showing higher profits is that they were keeping pay down,” he says. “At the same time, corporate C.E.O.’s were starting to pay themselves large multiples of what the average worker was earning.” The film then cuts to a clip of Viacom’s C.E.O., Philippe Dauman, discussing a period of layoffs: “It was a difficult time, you knew that you were impacting people who would have a difficult time, many of them, in finding new jobs, but you had to do it for the organization to, in that day, look to survive.” In a corner of the screen, Dauman’s total compensation for 2010 fades in: $84.5 million.
在电影中的某一幕，莱克指着一张显示了陶氏化学(DOW)在90年代初期令人费解的急剧发展的图表，“企业的利润极高，其中一个重大原因是他们一直把所支付的薪水压得很低，”他说，“与此同时，企业的首席执行官则开始为自己开出比普通工人赚的多许多倍的薪水。”电影随即把镜头切到了维亚康姆(Viacom)的CEO菲利浦·道曼(Philippe Dauman)，他正在讨论某个裁员时期：“那是一个艰难的时期，你知道你影响的是一些将要面临困难的人们，其中许多人要寻找新工作，但你为了企业必须这么做，在那个时候，这样做是为了存活下去。”在屏幕的角落，道曼在2010年得到的分红金额显示了出来：8450万美元。
It’s hard to find your bearings in the middle of a cataclysm. Do you fight or surrender? Beat ’em or join ’em? Is joining them even possible? If not for me, at least for my kids?
在一场大灾难中，找到你的支撑点很难。你会战斗还是投降？打败他们还是加入他们？加入他们这个选项可能存在吗？如果对我来说没有，至少我的孩子能不能有？
This is my daughter’s last year at her beloved free-to-be-you-and-me preschool, and for the past six months or so, I was consumed by the question of where she would go next. I went deep, touring schools of every possible description (public, private, progressive, academic, bilingual, charter and magnet) and swinging wildly from one type of school to another. (My husband, pragmatically, let himself be guided by the quality of the complimentary baked goods, if any, on offer.)
这是我女儿在她深爱的自由烂漫的学前班度过的最后一年，在过去的6个月左右中，我一直被她接下来要去哪里上学这个问题困扰着。我进行了深入的调查，察看了每一种可能存在的类型的学校（公立、私立、改革派、学院派、双语、教会与磁石学校），在一种又一种学校间摇摆不定。（我的丈夫则非常实用主义，如果学校赠送食品的话，他就根据赠送的烘焙点心的质量来决定是否喜欢它们。）
As diverse as these schools were, the one thing they had in common was that the values they espoused, while admirably democratic and humanistic, didn’t seem to me to jibe with the realities of late capitalism. And so I began to wonder: Are we feeding our children a bunch of dangerous illusions about fairness and hard work and level playing fields? Are ideals a luxury only the rich can afford? (Tuition certainly is.) As seduced as I was by the good intentions on display, I couldn’t shake the feeling that there was something not quite fair about all this — not fair to my daughter, I mean. What if the kid got it in her head that it was a good idea to go into public service, the helping professions, craftsmanship, scholarship or — God help her — the arts? Wouldn’t a greedier, more back-stabby style of early education be more valuable to the children of the shrinking middle class ­ — one suited to the world they are actually living in? Because every time my daughter says, “I want to be a writer like Mommy,” I have to resist the urge to wash her mouth out with soap.
这些学校差别特别大，但有一点是共通的，就是他们所推崇的价值观，在令人尊敬得民主与人性化的同时，和现今的资本主义社会现实并不匹配。所以我开始好奇：我们是不是错误地向我们的孩子们灌输了一堆关于公正、认真工作以及公平竞争的观念？而这些是不是只有富人才承受得起的理想化奢侈品？（从学费的角度上来说当然是这样的。）被表面上好的出发点给误导成现在这样，使得我无法摆脱所有这一切中有什么东西不太公平的感觉——我的意思是，对我的女儿不公平。如果这孩子觉得进入公共服务行业、护理辅助专业、手工艺行业、学术圈或者——愿上帝帮助她——艺术业是一个上佳选择的话，怎么办？一个更贪婪、更两面三刀的早教体系不是对日渐萎缩的中产阶级的孩子们更有价值，更符合他们所居住的真实世界吗？因为每次我的女儿说“我想做一个像妈妈这样的作家”时，我都得克制自己用肥皂水清洗一下她的嘴巴的冲动。
I’m reminded of the quote by John Adams: “I must study politics and war, that my sons may have the liberty to study mathematics and philosophy. My sons ought to study mathematics and philosophy, geography, natural history [and] naval architecture . . . in order to give their children a right to study painting, poetry, music, architecture, tapestry and porcelain.” For all intents and purposes, I guess I studied porcelain. The funny thing is that my parents came from a country (Peru) with a middle class so small that parents had to study business so that their children could study business. If I didn’t follow suit, it’s at least in part because I spent my childhood in the 1970s absorbing the nurturing message of a progressive pop culture that told me I could be anything I wanted, because this is America.
约翰·亚当斯(John Adams)的话提醒了我：“我必须学习政治与战争，这样我的儿子们才有可能自由地去学习数学与哲学。我的儿子们应该去学习数学、哲学、地理、自然史与船只建造……而这是为了让他们的孩子学习绘画、写诗、音乐、建筑、编织与制瓷。”无论从哪个方面来看，我猜我学的差不多就是制瓷那一类的门道。有趣的是，我的父母来自一个中产阶级人口非常少的国家（秘鲁），父母们必须学习做生意，这样他们的孩子才能够选择学习做生意。如果我没有依样照做，那至少有一部分是因为我在19世纪70年代度过了我的童年时代，那时我从革命性的流行文化中汲取了信息的养分，它告诉我，我可以成为任何我所想要成为的人，因为这里是美国。
Looking back at the schools I toured for my daughter, which ranged from the luxuriously utopian to the grimly pragmatic, I find myself thinking about something Reich said in the movie. “When we see the contrast between the values we share and the realities we live in, that is the fundamental foundation for social change.”
回顾我为女儿挑选的学校们，从奢华的乌托邦到严肃的实用主义，我发现我在思考莱克在那部电影里所说的一些东西：“当我们看到我们所持的价值观与我们生活在其中的现实之间的冲突时，这就是社会变革基本的立足点。”
It’s nice to think so. Until that happens, though, what should we tell kids? How should we raise them? I’m not sure, but in the meantime I’m open to ideas. Wilderness survival camp? Gladiator school? Krav Maga? Should I just start organizing “Lean In” circle playdates now? Or tiger-momming her straight into the trainee program at Goldman Sachs?
这么想很好。但在它真的来临之前，我们该怎么告诉孩子们？我们该怎么养育他们？我不确定，但与此同时我的思路拓宽了。野外求生训练营？角斗学校？以色列格斗术？我是不是应该从现在开始安排“向前一步”圈子的玩伴？或者用虎妈那样的高压方式把她一路送进高盛集团(Goldman Sachs)的训练生项目？
It’s not what I envisioned when I had her, but then this is not about me. Until it gets figured out, though — baby steps. Maybe I’ll ask my daughter’s preschool teachers to consider injecting a little social Darwinism into circle time. A little less Rosa Parks, a little more Scrooge McDuck.
这不是我刚有她时所构想的方式，但是这不是我能决定的。不过在事情真正明朗化之前，我们都只能摸索前行。也许我会请我女儿学前班的老师们考虑一下在课程中加入一点点社会达尔文主义的思想。少一点罗莎·帕克斯，多一点唐老鸭(Scrooge McDuck)。