After months of setbacks and delays, the merger of American Airlines and US Airways to create the world’s largest airline became all but certain on Tuesday after the airlines reached a settlement with the Justice Department just two weeks before a scheduled trial.
在经过长达数月的挫折和延误之后，美国航空(American Airlines)和全美航空(US Airways)合并，组建世界最大航空公司的计划，终于在本周二几乎成为定局。这两家航空公司与美国司法部(Justice Department)达成了和解，此时距离预定的开庭日期只剩两周时间。
The deal paves the way for the creation of a third major global airline that can compete with United Airlines and Delta Air Lines, which completed their own mergers in recent years, and sets the structure for the domestic airline industry for years to come.
这项和解，为位列全球前三的一家新航空公司的成立铺平了道路，也将在未来很长的时间里，设定美国国内航空产业的格局。新成立的公司将能够与美联航(United Airlines)和达美航空(Delta Air Lines)一较高下，这两家公司最近几年也在并购领域有所斩获。
The combination caps a tumultuous decade for the airlines, which have been hobbled by high fuel prices and plagued by a series of bankruptcies, including American’s.
这起合并案终结了航空产业动荡的十年。由于燃油价格上涨，而且受到一系列破产案的冲击，其中包括美国航空的破产，这个行业近年来举步维艰。
It also opens a new chapter in the history of the airline industry’s deregulation, leaving a handful of airlines to control most domestic and international flights — American, Delta, United and the domestic giant Southwest Airlines.
它也开启了航空产业历史上放松监管的一个新篇章，美国航空、达美航空、美联航，以及国内航空巨头西南航空(Southwest Airlines)这几家航空公司，将控制大多数国内和国际航班。
The Justice Department said the agreement would foster competition at busy markets like Washington and New York, opening opportunities for lower-cost carriers.
司法部表示，和解协议能够在繁忙的航空市场促进竞争，如在华盛顿和纽约，为廉价航空公司打开竞争机遇。
But analysts questioned how much competition would be created. George Hoffer, a transportation economics professor at the University of Richmond, said the merger effectively took one major competitor out of the market. That could result in subtle fare increases in many markets and fewer flights, he said.
然而分析人士质疑这项和解能在多大程度上促进竞争。里士满大学(University of Richmond)运输经济学教授乔治·霍夫(George Hoffer)说，合并实际上是从市场上去掉了一个大型竞争者。他指出，这可能会导致机票价格在很多市场上略微出现上涨，而航班数量也会有所减少。
Mr. Hoffer added that “the Justice Department was in an indefensible position. Once you created a super-Delta and a super-United, you had to create a super-American. So the outcome was inevitable.”
霍夫还说，“司法部此前的立场站不住脚。既然建立了超大型达美，又建立了超大型美联航，就必须要成立一家超大型美国航空。所以这个结局是不可避免的。”
Investors cheered the deal, sending airline stocks higher after the announcement.
这项和解令投资者感到十分振奋，消息宣布后，航空股大涨。
The settlement still needs to be approved by the Federal District Court in the District of Columbia and by the judge overseeing American’s bankruptcy proceeding. But the airlines are confident they can now close their merger deal by mid-December.
和解还需要经过哥伦比亚特区的联邦地区法院(Federal District Court)批准，也需要经过监督美国航空破产程序的法官批准。但这两家航空公司都相信，现在看来应该可以在12月中旬完成合并。
Airline executives have argued over the years that consolidation and pruning of unprofitable routes was the only way to return a beleaguered industry to health. The process has led to a string of mergers since 2005, including the combination between Delta and Northwest, United and Continental and, more recently, Southwest and AirTran.
航空产业的高管多年来一直主张，只有通过产业整合、裁撤无法盈利的航线，才能让这个处境被动的产业恢复到健康状态。自2005年以来，这个过程中已经出现了一系列合并案，包括达美航空与西北航空(Northwest)合并，美联航与大陆航空(Continental)合并，以及在那以后西南航空(Southwest)与AirTran的合并。
While all those mergers were approved by antitrust regulators, with few or no objections, the planned combination of American and US Airways hit a major stumbling block this summer when the Justice Department, along with some state attorneys general and the District of Columbia, filed a legal challenge, contending that fares would rise if another merger went through.
尽管上述所有合并案都得到了监管机关批准，甚至几乎完全没有异议，但是美国航空和全美航空的合并计划却在今年夏天遭遇了极大阻碍。司法部连同几个州的检察长及哥伦比亚特区政府提起了诉讼，称如果再有一桩合并案顺利完成，机票价格就会上涨。
But in the face of an effective lobbying campaign by the airlines and their employees, particularly with local and state officials, as well as the perceived weakness of their own case, government regulators dropped their suit in exchange for some divestitures.
然而由于这两家航空公司及其员工游说得力，尤其是在针对地方和州级官员时，而且政府监管部门的立场也被认为论据不够充分，监管部门最终放弃了诉讼，转而要求剥离一些资产。
Under the proposal, American and US Airways agreed to sell 104 takeoff and landing slots at Ronald Reagan National Airport, and 34 slots at La Guardia Airport in New York to lower-cost carriers. It also agreed to sell the rights to a pair of terminal gates and associated ground assets at five other airports — Chicago O’Hare International, Los Angeles International, Boston Logan International, Dallas Love Field and Miami International.
按照提出的和解方案，美国航空和全美航空同意将位于罗纳德·里根国家机场(Ronald Reagan National Airport)的104条起降位，以及位于纽约拉瓜迪亚机场(La Guardia Airport)的34条起降位，出让给廉价航空公司。和解方案中还同意，出售在其他5座机场使用一对通道门及相关地面设施的权利，包括芝加哥奥黑尔国际机场(O’Hare International)、洛杉矶国际机场、波士顿洛根国际机场(Logan International)、达拉斯爱田机场(Dallas Love Field)和迈阿密国际机场(Miami International)。
The airlines also addressed a concern of the attorneys general that had joined the suit, agreeing to maintain hubs at Kennedy Airport in New York; in Charlotte, N.C.; Chicago; Los Angeles; Miami; Philadelphia; and Phoenix for a period of three years “consistent with historical operations.” In a separate agreement with the Department of Transportation, the airlines agreed to maintain current service to small and midsize communities from Reagan National.
两家航空公司还回应了共同提起诉讼的检察官提出的疑问，同意在三年时间里，“按过去的运行方式”继续运行设在纽约肯尼迪机场、北卡罗来纳州夏洛特、芝加哥、洛杉矶、迈阿密、费城和菲尼克斯的中转枢纽。在与美国运输部(Department of Transportation)单独达成的协议中，两家航空公司同意在里根机场继续为中小型目的地提供现有的服务。
Robert Mann, an aviation consultant, said the deal was “basically a face-saver” for the Justice Department, which dropped its earlier objection over the possible loss of a low-fare program run by US Airways.
航空产业咨询师罗伯特·曼(Robert Mann)说，和解对司法部来说“基本上是挽回了面子”。司法部放弃了此前以全美航空经营的一个低价服务可能会消失为由而提出的反对。
“But they did get a pound of flesh, or couple of ounces, at La Guardia and Washington National,” he said.
他说，“不过司法部的确在拉瓜迪亚机场和华盛顿国家机场得到了‘一磅肉’，或者说几盎司肉。”
Airline executives, as well as labor groups that backed the merger, praised the deal. The slots to be sold represent about 15 percent of the combined slots at both airlines. Even after the divestitures, the new airline will have more flights from Reagan than US Airways, the current leader there, did before the merger and will remain the largest carrier there, said Doug Parker, the chairman of US Airways.
航空业高管，以及支持合并的劳工团体对于和解大加赞赏。需要出售的起降位占两家航空公司起降位总数的15%。但全美航空董事长道格·帕克(Doug Parker)说，全美航空目前是里根机场航班最多的航空公司，即使在剥离资产之后，新航空公司在里根机场的航班总数，仍然多于全美航空在合并前的数量，维持了其里根机场最大航空公司的地位。
The market value of the combined company has now reached $17 billion, up from $11 billion when the deal was announced in February, based on US Airways’ current share price.
按照全美航空当前的股价计算，合并后公司的市值，现在达到了170亿美元，今年2月合并的消息公布时，市值为110亿美元。