As classes began at a high school in suburban Pittsburgh on Wednesday morning, a 16-year-old student walked through the hallway stabbing and slashing students with two large knives, the authorities said.
当局称，周三早上，当匹兹堡郊区一所高中的学生正陆续到校时，一个16岁的学生手持两把大型刀具，在走廊里疯狂地砍向其他学生。
By the time the student was tackled by an assistant principal, he had stabbed 20 students and a security guard and sent students running from the school, officials said. At least four of the students had serious wounds to the stomach and torso but were expected to survive.
官员们称，当这名学生被一名校长助理擒住时，他已经捅伤了20名学生和一名保安，一些学生则已经逃离校园。至少四名学生的胸腹部和躯干严重受伤，但预计没有生命危险。
The suspect was taken into custody and treated for cuts to his hands at a hospital. Officials expected to charge him as an adult in the attacks, John Peck, the Westmoreland County district attorney, said.
行凶者已被收押，他手上的刀伤也在医院得到了治疗。威斯特摩兰县的地方检察官约翰·佩克(John Peck)说，此人预计将作为成年人受到指控。
The attack at Franklin Regional High School in Murrysville, Pa., a suburb about 20 miles east of Pittsburgh, began shortly after 7 a.m., officials said. The teenager stabbed students with two knives that were 8 to 10 inches long, the police said.
官员们说，发生在宾夕法尼亚州默里斯维尔的富兰克林地区高中(Franklin Regional High School)的袭击开始于刚过7点的时候。这片郊区位于匹兹堡以东约20英里（约合32公里）处。警方说，这名少年使用了两把长度为8到10英寸（20到25厘米）的刀具。
The police said they were investigating whether the student might have been bullied, but they said they did not have concrete evidence of it.
警方说，正在调查这名学生是否曾受到欺凌，但表示，目前还没有相关的确凿证据。
A sophomore, Cameron Lazor, said she saw the 16-year-old student stab four students, including one teenager who was slashed in the arm as he tried to protect two classmates. The teenager had a “serious look” in his eye as he passed her in the hallway, she said.
高中二年级的卡梅伦·拉佐尔(Cameron Lazor)说，她看到这个16岁的少年捅伤了四个学生，其中一名学生在保护两名同学时，胳膊被砍伤。她说，行凶者在走廊从她身边经过时，眼露“凶光”。
“It seemed like he was targeting some people,” she said. “But anyone who got in his way, he was hurting them too.”
“他的目标似乎是某些人，”她说，“但如果有人挡路，他也会袭击他们。”
A friend took her hand, and they went running out of the school. In a parking lot outside, Ms. Lazor said, she saw many bloody students with injuries to their stomachs and arms.
一个朋友拉起了她的手，两人一起跑出了学校。拉佐尔说，在校外的一个停车场，她看到许多学生身带血迹，胸腹部和胳膊受了伤。
On Wednesday evening, at least four victims remained in critical condition, hospital officials said. One of the most seriously injured patients was a 17-year-old male student who was stabbed in the torso, just barely missing his heart, doctors at University of Pittsburgh Medical Center said at a news conference. Doctors said they were hopeful that the student, who was on life support, would survive. The hospital system said it had three other patients in fair and good condition.
周三晚间，医院的管理人员说，至少四名受害者仍然情况危重。匹茨堡大学医学中心(University of Pittsburgh Medical Center)的医生在新闻发布会上说，受伤最严重的是一个17岁的男生，他的躯干被刀捅伤，险些伤到心脏，目前仍然需要使用人工呼吸机。医生们说，他们认为该学生有望脱离生命危险。这家医院说，该院还收治了三名病人，目前状况良好。
Three other patients were in critical condition at Forbes Hospital in Pittsburgh, the closest trauma center to the high school. The three male students had abdominal wounds and were being treated in the intensive care unit, the hospital said. Three other teenagers at the hospital were in fair condition.
另外的三名危重病人正在匹兹堡的福布斯医院(Forbes Hospital)接受治疗，这是距那所高中最近的创伤医院。这三个男生腹部受伤，正在重症监护病房接受治疗。在这所医院接受治疗的另外三名学生状况良好。
At a news conference on Wednesday evening, Chief Thomas Seefeld of the Murrysville Police Department said the attack had lasted about five minutes. The student was confronted by a school security guard, but the guard was unable to subdue him and was stabbed in the stomach.
在周三晚间的新闻发布会上，默里斯维尔警察局长托马斯·泽费尔德 (Thomas Seefeld)说，袭击持续了大约5分钟。学校一名保安与他发生了对抗，但未能制伏他，腹部受了伤。
At one point, a student pulled a fire alarm. Students and staff members who had been unaware of the attack then fled, which might have saved more people from being harmed.
暴力发生时，一名学生拉响了火灾警报。此前尚未意识到袭击事件的学生和工作人员由此开始逃离现场，这可能让许多人躲过了劫难。
“It could have been a lot worse,” Mr. Seefeld said.
泽费尔德说，“情况本来可能糟得多。”
An assistant principal, Sam King, eventually tackled the student, Mr. Seefeld said.
最终，校长助理萨姆·金(Sam King)制伏了行凶者。
Gov. Tom Corbett of Pennsylvania said there were many heroes at the school, including students, cafeteria workers and teachers who helped one another after the attacks.
宾州州长汤姆·科比特(Tom Corbett)说，学校里涌现出了许多英雄，包括在袭击发生后相互帮助的学生、食堂员工和教师。
“As a parent and grandparent, I can think of nothing more distressing than senseless violence against children,” Governor Corbett said in a statement.
科比特州长在一份声明中说，“作为一个父亲和祖父，我想象不出比无端地对孩子使用暴力更令人痛心的事了。”
Chief Seefeld said investigators were looking into reports of a threatening phone call between the 16-year-old and another student the night before.
泽费尔德警长说，一些报告称，事发前一天的夜里，这个16岁的少年和另一名学生进行了一次恐吓性通话，调查人员正在对此进行调查。
The high school will be closed for several days, said Gennaro Piraino, superintendent of Franklin Regional School District. The district will provide counseling for students.
富兰克林学区的负责人热纳罗·皮拉伊诺 (Gennaro Piraino)说，这所高中将停课几天。学区将为学生提供心理辅导。
Ms. Lazor said she had known the suspect since they were children, and that they had played on a soccer team together for a decade and rode the same bus to school. She said she did not understand why the shy student would attack their classmates.
拉佐尔说，她和嫌疑人从小就认识，他们一起在一个足球队踢球长达10年，每天乘坐同一班车上学。她说，她想不明白这个性格腼腆的同学为什么会袭击他们的同学。
“It was just a normal day,” she said. “I can’t grasp that it happened right in front of my eyes.”
“只是很平常的一天，”她说，“我现在仍然无法明白为什么会发生这一切。”