As President Obama made the case on Wednesday about how the American economy was improving, he went off script to underscore how significant the challenges were that remained.
周三，奥巴马总统先是阐述了美国经济正在如何改善，之后就脱稿开始强调尚存的挑战有多么巨大。
“But — and here’s the big but — I’m here today to tell you that we’re not there yet,” Mr. Obama said, expanding on his prepared text to note that the wealthy are doing better while the middle class is struggling and others are faring worse.
奥巴马说，“但是——重要的‘但是’来了——今天我要在这里告诉你们，我们还没达到目标。”他在预先准备好的讲稿基础上展开了话题，谈到尽管富人的处境改善了，但中产阶级仍在挣扎，其他阶层的状况恶化了。
He did not need to remind many of his fellow Democrats.
许多民主党人其实不需要他提醒。
With Mr. Obama experiencing a difficult first year of his second term and his lame-duck status growing ever nearer, his speech underscored the stirrings of a debate inside the Democratic Party about the party’s economic approach, given the halting recovery.
在第二任期的第一年里，奥巴马感受到了处境的艰难，而且他距离沦为“跛脚鸭”也越来越近。在复苏乏力之际，民主党内部对党的经济策略展开了辩论，奥巴马的讲话反映出了这场辩论在民主党内部掀起的波澜。
If positions on foreign policy and specifically the Iraq war marked the dividing line in the Democrats’ last fierce internal debate, issues related to banks, entitlements and the rights of consumers broadly could shape the party’s next search for an identity.
如果说民主党上一次出现激烈的内部争论是围绕着在外交政策上的立场分歧——具体说是针对伊拉克战争，那么关涉银行、福利和消费者权益的广泛议题，或许会在该党下一次寻找自我身份定位的过程中成为关键因素。
Liberals, pointing to a bankrupt Detroit and new reports of diminished class mobility, believe the plight of lower-income and young Americans is so severe that the party must shift away from the center-left consensus that has shaped its fiscal politics since Bill Clinton’s 1992 election and push more aggressively to reduce income disparity.
自由派以底特律的破产、以及关于阶级流动性降低的新研究报告为依据，指出美国低收入人群和年轻人深陷困境，民主党必须脱离中左派共识，要更激进地推行举措，减少收入不平等。这一共识自比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)在1992年当选总统以来，就一直左右着民主党的财政政策。
“The sooner we get back to a good, progressive, populist message, the better off we’re going to be as Democrats,” said Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa.
艾奥瓦州参议员汤姆·哈金(Tom Harkin)表示，“我们越早回归好的、进步的、平民的路线，我们作为民主党人境况就越好。”
The growing intraparty economic debate comes even as there is increasing cohesion on the cultural issues that once divided Democrats. Many in the party see progress on matters like gay rights, gun control and immigration, topics that Mr. Obama has spent time on this year but mentioned only glancingly in his address Wednesday at Knox College, in Galesburg, Ill.
尽管在一度存在分歧的文化议题上，民主党的意见正越来越一致，但还是发生了针对经济立场的争论。党内许多人认为在同性恋权利、枪支管控和移民问题上取得了进展，奥巴马今年在这些议题上花费了很多时间。但周三在伊利诺伊州盖尔斯堡的诺克斯学院(Knox College)发表的演说中，对这些议题他却只是一笔带过。
The votes and stances on these issues among Democrats in Congress are now far more uniform than they were as late as the 1990s. And it is unthinkable that — whether their 2016 standard-bearer is Hillary Rodham Clinton or somebody else — every major contender in the next Democratic primary season will not be down-the-line progressive on cultural issues.
比起上世纪90年代，民主党议员在相关议题上的立场和投票取向如今要一致得多。而且很难想象，下次民主党初选的主要竞争者里——不管2016年扛起民主党大旗的是希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)还是别的什么人——会有什么人在文化议题上不是彻底的进步派。
But there is a growing frustration among progressives who are now saying the party must move toward a more populist position on the issue that many on the left see as the great unfinished business of the Obama years: economic fairness.
但是，进步人士中间存在着日渐浓厚的沮丧情绪，如今他们声称，民主党必须在一个议题上转向更具平民色彩的立场。许多左翼人士认为，这一议题是奥巴马时期巨大的未竟事业：经济公平。
“Look at where we are going to be at the end of the Obama administration — we’ll see a lot of change on social issues, but on the ground in the country we’ll still have this growing economic inequality,” said Neera Tanden, president of the liberal Center for American Progress.
自由派组织美国进步中心(Center for American Progress)的负责人尼拉·坦登(Neera Tanden)说，“想想奥巴马任期结束的时候，我们会处于什么状况。我们会看到社会议题上的诸多变革，但在美国的现实中，我们的经济不平等正在加剧。”
Dating to his first appointments as president-elect, Mr. Obama has drawn suspicion from some elements of the left on economics. Now, with the first talk of the post-Obama Democratic Party, liberal angst is starting to take form in Washington.
自从作为候任总统做出第一批人事任命以来，奥巴马就一直在经济问题上遭到部分左翼人士的怀疑。如今，随着人们开展初步探讨后奥巴马时代的民主党，自由派的忧虑开始在华盛顿成型。
Senator Elizabeth Warren, the former Harvard law professor who is suddenly Massachusetts’s senior senator as a freshman, has been at the center of two issues that will be sharply debated within the Democratic Party heading into 2016. Ms. Warren is drawing attention to the college students and recent graduates besieged by debt by proposing to offer them the same interest rate for a year, 0.75 percent, as the Federal Reserve offers banks.
参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)曾是哈佛大学(Harvard University)的法学教授，进入参议院的第一年就突然成了马萨诸塞州的资深参议员。2016年前将在民主党内部引发激辩的两个议题中，她一直处于中心。沃伦建议，学生贷款的年利率应为0.75%，等同美联储给银行业提供的利率水平，这让她吸引了受困于债务的大学生和新毕业生的注意。
When a bipartisan compromise was struck last week on federal student loans, she declined to support the deal — irritating some of her more senior Democratic colleagues.
上周，两党就联邦助学贷款达成妥协，但沃伦拒绝支持该协议，引发了一些更资深的民主党同侪的不满。
Center-versus-left tensions have come into view in just the last few days amid speculation that Lawrence H. Summers, the centrist former Harvard president and senior economic official in the Clinton and Obama White House, is a serious candidate to become chairman of the Federal Reserve.
中左之间的对立在过去几天里逐渐显现，此时正值外界猜想中间派的劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)是担任下届美联储主席的热门人选。萨默斯曾任哈佛大学校长，并在克林顿和奥巴马政府中担任高级经济官员。
And while the issue has largely been dormant since Mr. Obama’s budget proposal earlier this year, he signaled in his Wednesday speech that he would again try to push through changes to Social Security and Medicare, programs the left considers sacrosanct.
而且，尽管自今年早些时候奥巴马提出预算案以来这种对立大体上暂时停歇了，但他在周三的演讲中发出信号，他将再次尝试推行社会安全福利(Social Security)和联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的改革，而左翼人士认为这些福利项目不可触碰。
“We’ve got to embrace changes to cherished priorities so that they work better in this new age,” Mr. Obama said of his party. “We can’t just — Democrats can’t just stand pat and just defend whatever government is doing.”
谈到本党时，奥巴马说，“我们必须欣然接受对宝贵的重点项目进行改革，这样它们才能在新时期运行得更加良好。我们不能、民主党人不能一味固执己见，自顾自地为政府的任何作为辩护。”
But the scale and the persistence of the country’s economic difficulties may cool Democratic ardor for addressing deficits.
然而，美国经济困难的规模及其持续的存在可能会冷却民主党人对处理赤字问题的热情。
Some in the party took note when Mrs. Clinton used her first major speech since departing as secretary of state to point to the desperate straits of many people and localities in the Obama era.
一些党内人士注意到，在离开国务卿一职后的首次重大演讲中，克林顿指出许多民众及地区深陷困境。
“In too many places in our own country, community institutions are crumbling, social and public health indicators are cratering, and jobs are coming apart and communities face the consequences,” Mrs. Clinton said in a speech last month at the Clinton Global Initiative conference in Chicago.
她说，“我们自己的国家有太多地方，社区机构分崩离析，社会与健康指标满目疮痍，就业机会渐渐消失，要承担这些后果的却是居民们。”她是上个月在芝加哥举行的克林顿全球倡议组织(Clinton Global Initiative)会议上发表此番演讲的。
Too much should not be read into one part of one speech. And Mrs. Clinton’s sheer force of personality could overshadow any internecine policy debates.
一次演讲的一小部分不应被过度解读。而且克林顿十足的个人魅力可能会掩盖内部的所有政策纷争。
But past arguments by Mr. Clinton and other moderate Democrats that positioning the Democratic Party in the political center was the only way to win elections could be harder to make at a moment when the economy is still wheezing, powerful strains of populism have emerged in both parties, and the Republicans are fighting their own civil wars and face serious demographic challenges.
不过比尔·克林顿等温和派民主党人曾经的主张，即民主党只有采取中间的政治立场才能赢得选举的胜利，在如今的形势下可能更难立足了。经济仍很虚弱，两党内部均涌现了强大的平民主义倾向，而共和党人正在打着他们自己的内战，在人口分布上也面临着严峻的挑战。