WASHINGTON — Secretary of State John Kerry announced on Wednesday that the United States and Afghanistan had finalized the wording of a bilateral security agreement that would allow for a lasting American troop presence through 2024 and set the stage for billions of dollars of international assistance to keep flowing to the government in Kabul.
华盛顿——美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周三宣布，美国已与阿富汗确定了一个双边安全协议的最后措辞。根据该协议，美军将一直在阿富汗驻扎到2024年；此外，协议还设定了相关框架，让数以十亿美元计的国际援助能继续涌入位于喀布尔的阿富汗政府。
The deal, which now will be presented for approval by an Afghan grand council of elders starting on Thursday, came after days of brinkmanship by Afghan officials and two direct calls from Mr. Kerry to President Hamid Karzai, including one on Wednesday before the announcement.
这一协议目前将交由一个阿富汗长老大理事会审核，理事会会议将于周四开始。此前数日，阿富汗官员曾实施边缘政策，克里还给阿富汗总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)直接打了两次电话，其中一个是在周三宣布声明之前打的。
Just the day before, a senior aide to Mr. Karzai had said the Afghan leader would not approve an agreement unless President Obama sent a letter acknowledging American military mistakes during the 12-year war. But on Wednesday, Mr. Kerry emphatically insisted that a deal was reached with no American apology forthcoming.
就在前一天，卡尔扎伊的一个高级助手表示，阿富汗领导人不会批准任何协议，除非奥巴马总统能来信承认美国军队在12年的战争中所犯的错误。但是周三，克里着重强调，双方已达成协议，美国也不会表示道歉。
“President Karzai didn’t ask for an apology. There was no discussion of an apology,” Mr. Kerry said. “I mean, it’s just not even on the table.”
“卡尔扎伊总统并没有要求我们道歉。我们没有谈论道歉的问题，”克里说，“我是说，这个问题根本没有进入讨论范围。”
After a dozen-year war that stands as the longest in American history, the security agreement defines a training and counterterrorism mission in Afghanistan lasting at least 10 more years and involving 8,000 to 12,000 troops, mostly American.
这场战争为期12年，是美国历史上时间最长的战争。在此之后，前述安全协议要求在阿富汗开展一项训练和反恐任务，该任务将至少持续10年，将有8000到12000名士兵参与，大多数都是美国士兵。
Despite the sometimes harsh criticism from Afghan officials during its negotiation, the agreement contains concessions that the Obama administration could not win from Iraq during a similar process in 2011, leading to the final withdrawal of American troops there.
协商过程中，阿富汗官员不时对这个协议表示激烈批判，尽管如此，协议中还是包含了一些奥巴马政府没能在2011年与伊拉克进行类似谈判时获得的妥协。美国和伊拉克的谈判最终导致了美军从伊拉克撤离。
Now, the United States has at least an initial agreement from Afghan officials that American soldiers will not face Afghan prosecution in the course of their duties. And United States Special Operations forces will retain leeway to conduct antiterrorism raids on private Afghan homes — a central American demand that Afghan officials had resisted and described as the last sticking point in negotiations.
如今，美国至少是拿到了与阿富汗官员达成的最初协议，这样一来，美国士兵执行任务时就不会受到阿富汗的指控。另外，美国特种作战部队(United States Special Operations Forces)将继续拥有一些活动余地，可以对阿富汗私人住所进行反恐搜查。对私人住所进行搜查是美国的一个核心要求，阿富汗官员曾对此表示反对，并称其为协商的最后一个症结。
In the end, both the Obama administration and the Karzai government had more reason to agree than disagree, according to officials on both sides. American officials do not want to see Afghanistan again become a haven for terrorists after it spent billions of dollars and thousands of lives in the war. And the Afghan leadership knows that more than $4 billion in annual international security assistance simply would not flow absent an American military presence to account for it.
两国官员称，最终，奥巴马政府和卡尔扎伊政府达成一致的理由还是比各执己见的理由更充分。美国官员不希望看到阿富汗再次变成恐怖分子的避风港，因为美国已经为这场战争投入了数十亿美元，牺牲了数千条生命。阿富汗领导人也知道，如果美军不驻扎在这里，每年40多亿美元的国际安全援助也将没有理由流入阿富汗。
Still, domestic political risks remain for both presidents today, as well. Some in Afghanistan already criticize Mr. Karzai as the political agent of a long-term foreign military presence. And Mr. Obama must explain to a nation weary of war why he is pressing for a continued military deployment, albeit a smaller one than advocated by American military commanders.
但如今，两国总统都面临国内的政治风险。在阿富汗，一些人批评卡尔扎伊是外国军队长期驻扎的政治掮客。而奥巴马必须向厌战的美国民众解释，他为什么迫切要求继续进行军事部署，尽管规模小于美国军事指挥官的主张。
Further, there is an immediate risk to the deal itself: the bilateral security agreement now must be approved by the Afghan council, known as a loya jirga. About 3,000 elders and leadership figures, all vetted by the Karzai government, will meet in Kabul for the next three days to weigh the agreement’s language, and it is sure to face at least some criticism.
而且，协议本身就面临一个直接风险：双边安全协议必须获得阿富汗大理事会即大国民议会的批准。未来三天，大约3000名经过卡尔扎伊政府甄选的长老和领导人物将聚集在喀布尔斟酌协议的措辞，毫无疑问，协议至少会受到一些批评。
“We have agreed on the language that would be submitted to a loya jirga, but they have to pass it,” Mr. Kerry said.
克里说：“我们已经就提交给大国民议会的协议的措辞达成一致，但必须得到他们的通过。”
The agreement itself would not establish a final troop number after the official NATO combat mission ends in December 2014. That is still to come from the Obama administration, and is expected to be a force of 8,000 to 12,000 personnel to train, advise and assist Afghan forces. About two-thirds of that force would be American, and the rest from NATO and other allies.
协议本身不会最终规定在2014年12月北约(NATO)正式作战任务结束后部署的士兵人数。这仍由奥巴马政府决定，预计届时会有一支8000到1.2万人的部队，为阿富汗部队提供训练、建议和协助。其中大约三分之二的人员将会是美国人，其他人则来自北约和其他盟国。
There would be no direct combat role for most of those troops, who would be assigned to major headquarters and not out in the field with Afghan fighting units. There would be a much smaller counterterrorism force envisioned by American and NATO planners.
大部分士兵不会直接参与战斗，他们将被派往重要的驻地，不会与阿富汗战斗部队一起在战场上作战。美国和北约的规划者设想建立一支反恐部队，但规模要小得多。
The current draft agreement accedes to the central American demand that ended up scuttling the Iraq negotiations: United States military personnel would be subject only to American military law, not Afghan laws, and Afghanistan pledges not to turn them over to any international tribunals.
目前的协议草案同意了美国的核心要求，也就是最终破坏伊拉克谈判的那个要求：美国军事人员将仅受美国军事法的约束，不受限于阿富汗法律，阿富汗承诺不将他们送交任何国际法庭。
The proposed treaty does, however, grant Afghans legal jurisdiction over contractors.
然而，拟议中的协议确实给了阿富汗人对承包商的法定管辖权。
A State Department official said that Mr. Kerry had spoken by telephone with Mr. Karzai on Wednesday morning, for the second time in two days, to nail down details of the agreement.
国务院的一名官员表示，克里曾于周三与卡尔扎伊通电话，确定协议的细节，这是两天内的第二次通话。
While Mr. Kerry was adamant that there would be no presidential apology for actions in Afghanistan, he left open the possibility that there would be some form of White House communication in the coming days.
克里坚称总统不会就在阿富汗的行动道歉，但并没有排除这样一种可能性，即白宫会在未来几天进行某种形式的沟通。
“It’s very important for President Karzai to know that the issues that he’s raised with us for many years have been properly addressed,” Mr. Kerry said, “and it’s very important for us to know that issues we have raised with him for a number of years are properly addressed.”
“重要的是让卡尔扎伊总统知道，他多年来对我们提出的问题已经得到妥善处理，”克里说，“我们也得知道，我们多年来对他提出的问题得到了妥善处理。”