SHANGHAI — The United States has been a destabilizing force in the dispute between China and Japan over the sovereignty of a small chain of islands in the East China Sea. Not only did Washington create the problem in 1971 by arbitrarily returning the administrative rights of the islands to Japan, but America’s claim that its security alliance with Japan applies to the tiny islands has emboldened Tokyo to take a more aggressive stance toward Beijing.
上海——在中日两国之间的东海小型岛屿主权争端中，美国一直扮演了不稳定因素。美国不仅在1971年主观地将岛屿的管辖权交还给日本，从而造成了这一问题，而且，美国还宣称美日安保联盟适用于这些小岛，促使日本敢于采取更加强硬的对华立场。
A peaceful resolution of the issue ultimately depends on the willingness of the Japanese government to acknowledge the dispute and pursue more reconciliatory policies toward China. But a major factor is whether Washington will shift its strategy to help rein in Japan and adopt a more reasonable stance that accommodates Beijing’s concerns about its maritime interests and security environment.
这一问题的和平解决最终取决于日本政府是否愿意承认存在争议，并寻求更为和解性的对华政策。但一个重要因素在于，华盛顿方面是否会调整策略，协助控制日本，并采取更加合理的立场，以照顾中国对其海事权和安全环境的关切。
When Chinese-Japanese relations moved toward normalization after Richard Nixon’s visit to China in 1972, Tokyo and Beijing agreed to shelve the disagreement over who owned the islands, called the Senkaku by Japan and the Diaoyu by China. The situation was largely ignored for decades.
在1972年理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)访问中国之后，中日关系朝着正常化方向发展，东京和北京同意搁置岛屿主权分歧。日本称这些岛屿为尖阁诸岛，中国则称之为钓鱼岛。数十年来，这个问题基本上被忽略。
But Tokyo’s decision to nationalize the islands in September 2012, prompted by the right-wing former governor of Tokyo, Shintaro Ishihara, was a major change to the status quo and a violation of the tacit understanding between Beijing and Tokyo to let sleeping dogs lie. China had no choice but to react strongly: Beijing sent its patrol boats to the territorial waters surrounding the Diaoyu and has since maintained regular patrols there aimed at asserting its claim to sovereignty.
然而，在右翼的前东京都知事石原慎太郎(Shintaro Ishihara)的推动下，日本于2012年9月决定对该岛实行国有化。这极大地改变了现状，打破了中日之前默认的不生是非的共识。除了作出强烈反应之外，中国别无选择：北京派遣了巡逻船前往钓鱼岛周边的领海，并保持定期巡逻，以加强对主权的宣示。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, a tough-talking nationalist who’s been in office since December 2012, takes an uncompromising position and denies that there is any question over the islands’ sovereignty. This stance, coupled with a more active security policy and other confrontational policies toward China, shows how Japan has transformed under Mr. Abe into a more assertive power. This shift reminds Chinese people of Japanese aggression in the World War II era.
自2012年12月以来，安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)任日本首相。这名言辞强硬的民族主义者采取毫无妥协的立场，否认岛屿主权存在任何争议。这种态度，以及更加积极的安保政策和针对中国的其他对抗性政策，展示了日本如何在安倍晋三的领导下已转化成一个更加强势的国家。这种转变让中国民众想起了日本在二战时期的侵略行为。
The United States has acted as Japan’s enabler. Washington supports efforts in Tokyo to reinterpret the country’s post-World War II pacifist Constitution to allow the military to act in conjunction with allies beyond Japanese territory. Washington encourages Mr. Abe to pursue a more active and assertive security policy, including the buildup of the Japanese military, which may lead to a further strengthening of Japan’s already advanced air and naval forces. And Washington asserts that the United States-Japan security alliance applies to the East China Sea island dispute; the American military has intensified its cooperation with the Japanese military in the area.
美国一直在充当鼓励日本的角色。华盛顿支持东京的举措——重新解读二战后的和平宪法，以允许军队携手盟军在国土之外采取行动。华盛顿鼓励安倍晋三采取更加积极而强势的安保政策，比如逐步强化日本军队。该举措可能会使日本本属先进的空军及海军实力进一步增强。华盛顿还声称，美日安保联盟适用于东海的岛屿争端；美国军队已经加强了与日本军队在该区域的合作。
These policies suggest that the United States, while claiming to be neutral, not only supports the Japanese position over the islands but, more importantly, prods Japan to be more aggressive toward China. Beijing feels pressure to sustain, and even step up, its patrols in the East China Sea so as to resist the combined American-Japanese power.
这些举措说明，虽然美国宣称保持中立，但它不仅支持日本在岛屿问题上的立场，更重要的是，它还鼓励日本采取更加强势的对华政策。北京感受到了压力，要保持并加强在东海的巡航工作，以抵抗美日联合力量。
The immediate concern, before any long-lasting peace is addressed, is to prevent a minor clash from spiraling out of control. Beijing and Tokyo should give their patrol boats strict guidelines on how to avoid provoking each other. The Chinese and Japanese coast guards should establish a hotline and maintain close contact, so as to avert misjudgment and escalation when an incidental conflict threatens to occur. The two countries should strictly prohibit their citizens from landing on the islands as such actions would certainly invite like reactions from the other side.
在实现长久和平之前，当务之急是防止小冲突演变为失去控制。北京和东京应该为各自的巡逻船制定严格的避免挑衅对方的指导原则。中国和日本的海事部门应该设立热线，保持密切联系，以便在将要发生意外冲突时，避免出现误判和升级的状况。两国还应该严禁本国公民登上争议岛屿，因为此类行为势必会促使另一方做出反应。
Washington is the key to helping establish the environment for a long-term agreement, which ultimately Japan and China have to reach on their own. In this case, for the United States, it is a matter of inaction, rather than action. Washington can help by avoiding a direct role in the dispute. It should not take sides on the sovereignty issue, nor attempt to serve as an arbitrator. Washington should refrain from pledging overt military support to Japan as the Abe administration may regard such support as a blank check to take an even stronger position against China.
中日两国最终需要依靠自己来达成长期协议，但在协助创造达成此类协议的环境方面，美国扮演关键角色。在这件事情上，美国需要做的是袖手旁观，而不是采取行动。对于华盛顿来说，避免直接介入争端就是一种帮助。美国不应当在主权问题上站队，或者试图充当仲裁者。华盛顿应避免公开承诺为日本提供军事支持，因为安倍晋三领导的政府可能会将此类支持当作空白支票，对中国采取更加强硬的立场。
The most constructive thing the United States could do is to use its sway to get Tokyo to officially acknowledge the sovereignty dispute.
美国所能做的最具建设性的事情是，利用自身的影响力促使东京正式承认存在这一主权争端。
The most efficient and realistic long-term way to solve the conflict is to reach an agreement that simply puts the sovereignty question aside. In other words, as they did in the early 1970s, China and Japan should agree to disagree, and carry on.
解决岛屿冲突的最有效且最实际的长久之计是，达成协议，其中完全将主权问题搁置。换句话说，就像在20世纪70年代初一样，中日两国应当求同存异，向前发展。
Japan should take the first step and acknowledge that the sovereignty of the islands is in dispute. Were Tokyo to take this leap, Beijing could then suggest shelving the disagreement altogether. To maintain this status going forward, Beijing and Tokyo could establish a “Three No” formula: no entry into the disputed waters, no landings on the islands, and no flight over them.
日本应走出第一步，承认岛屿主权存在争议。如果东京率先表态，那么北京就可以建议完全搁置争议。为了保持这种状态，中国和日本可以制定“三不”原则：不进入争议海域、不登岛、不飞越岛屿上空。
President Obama’s visit to Tokyo this week is an opportunity to set an agreement in motion. Short of encouraging words from Mr. Obama, a Chinese-Japanese standoff in the East China Sea is likely to continue, undermining regional stability and constraining United States-China relations.
奥巴马总统本周的东京之行是推动达成协议的一个契机。没有奥巴马的鼓励，中日两国在东海的僵持局面可能会继续上演，从而破坏地区稳定，抑制中美关系的发展。
The Diaoyu Islands, which are of little real strategic or economic use, are hardly worth disrupting relations among the world’s three largest economies. It is time to put the issue back into a box.
钓鱼岛没有多少实际的战略或经济价值，不值得为此而破坏世界三大经济体的关系。现在，是时候把这一问题收回搁置了。