WASHINGTON — President Obama and House Republicans failed to reach agreement on a six-week extension of the nation’s borrowing authority during a meeting Thursday at the White House, but the two sides kept talking, and the offer from politically besieged Republicans was seen as a step toward ending the budget standoff.
华盛顿——周四，奥巴马总统和众议院共和党人在白宫会面，虽未能就将政府债务上限最后期限后延六周达成协议，但双方继续进行对话，人们也认为，四面楚歌的共和党人的提议是向结束预算僵局迈出了一步。
In statements afterward that struck the most positive tone in weeks of acrimony, House Republicans described their hour-and-a-half-long meeting with Mr. Obama as “a useful and productive conversation,” while the White House described “a good meeting,” though “no specific determination was made” about the Republicans’ offer. Both agreed to continue talks through the night.
会晤后，双方发表了数周恶语相向以来措辞最为积极的声明，众议院共和党人称，同奥巴马的一个半小时会晤是“一次卓有成效的有益对话”，白宫则称此为“良好的会面”，但对于共和党提出的方案“尚未作出具体决定”。双方均同意在当晚继续开展对话。
People familiar with the meeting said that Mr. Obama pressed Republicans to reopen the government, and that Republicans raised the possibility that financing could be restored by early next week if terms for broad budget negotiations could be reached.
知晓会谈内情的人士称，奥巴马敦促共和党人让政府恢复运转，共和党人则表示，如果双方能就开展广泛预算谈判的条件达成一致，资金就有可能在下周初重新到位。
Twenty Republicans, led by Speaker John A. Boehner, went to the White House at Mr. Obama’s invitation after a day of fine-tuning their proposal to increase the Treasury Department’s authority to borrow money to pay existing obligations through Nov. 22. The government is expected to reach its borrowing limit next week. In exchange, they sought a commitment by the president to negotiate a deal for long-term deficit reduction and a tax overhaul.
应奥巴马之邀，在众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boeher)带领下，20名共和党人前往白宫与总统进行会晤。之前一天，他们一直在完善己方的提议，内容是提高财政部借款权限、将偿还现存债务的最后期限延至11月22日。按照预期，政府将在下周达到其举债上限。作为交换，共和党人希望总统许诺参与谈判，以达成有关长期减赤及税收改革的协定。
The president “didn’t say yes, didn’t say no,” said Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Budget Committee. He added, “We agreed to continue talking and continue negotiating.”
总统“没有答应，也没有拒绝”，众议院预算委员会主席、威斯康辛州众议员保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)说。瑞安还表示，“双方都同意继续开展对话和谈判。”
An initial report that Mr. Obama had rejected the Republicans’ offer was too definitive and came before Republican leaders or the White House had made it clear to reporters that the negotiations would continue.
起初的一份报道称，奥巴马已拒绝了共和党人的提议，该报道太过绝对，报道发表之时，共和党领导人和白宫都还没有向记者明确表示，谈判将会继续。
Still, the House Republican offer represented a potentially significant breakthrough. Even if Democrats found fault with the Republicans’ immediate proposal — for example, it would prevent a Treasury secretary from engaging in accounting maneuvers to stave off potential default — it was seen as an opening gambit in the legislative dance toward some resolution before the government is expected to breach its debt limit on Thursday.
不过，众议院共和党人的提议代表着一个潜在的重大突破。即使民主党人对共和党人的提议有所挑剔——比如，该提议将阻止财政部长通过账务操纵来延缓可能的政府违约——该提议仍被认为是一次立法斡旋的开场，斡旋的目的便是在周四政府债务上限到期前达成某种解决方案。
Even before the meeting, the White House and its Democratic allies in Congress were all but declaring victory at the evidence that Republicans — suffering the most in polls, and pressured by business allies and donors not to provoke a government default — were seeking a way out of the impasse.
早在会晤开始前，白宫和其国会的民主党同盟就已经到了宣布获胜的边缘，因为他们看到，共和党人正在寻求结束僵局的出路——共和党人承受了大部分的民调损失，并且受到了商界盟友和捐款人的压力，要求其不要引发政府违约。
After some fretful weeks, the Democrats believe, Mr. Obama was seeing some payoff for his big gamble this year. Burned by his experience with House Republicans in mid-2011, when brinkmanship over the debt limit hobbled the already weak economy, Mr. Obama began his second term vowing never again to negotiate over raising the ceiling or to give any concessions to Republicans for performing an act that is their constitutional responsibility.
焦躁不安的几周之后，民主党人认为，奥巴马今年的大赌局会获得一些回报。2011年中期，众议院共和党人有关债务上限的边缘政策阻碍了本已疲软的经济，这段经历让奥巴马十分愤怒，因此便在第二任期开始时誓称不再就提高上限进行谈判，也不会对共和党人做出任何让步，任由他们在宪定职责范围之内展开行动。
“The good news is that Republicans have accepted the principle that they’re not going to attach conditions to the debt ceiling,” said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee. “The bad news is they’ve only extended the debt ceiling for six weeks, which will continue to generate huge amounts of destructive uncertainty in the economy. And, of course, they also continue to keep the government shut down.”
“好消息是，共和党人已经接受以下原则，即他们不会为债务上限附加条件，”马里兰州众议员、众议院预算委员会(House Budget Committee)资深民主党人克里斯·范霍伦(Chris Van Hollen)说。“坏消息是，他们只将债务上限期限延长了六周，这将继续给美国经济带来大量具有破坏性的不稳定性。当然，他们还继续使政府处于停摆状态。”
For House Republicans, the maneuvers represented a near complete reversal of their original strategy in September of going to the mat over the debt limit but not shutting down the government. Now, under pressure from falling poll numbers and angry business supporters, they are seeking a compromise on the debt ceiling. Yet for now, they are still refusing to finance and reopen the government without some concessions.
对于众议院共和党人来说，这些举动说明他们几乎完全推翻了他们在今年9月采取的原定策略——为债务上限斗争到底，同时避免政府停摆。如今，面对支持率下降及愤怒的商界支持者带来的压力，他们正寻求就债务上限达成妥协。然而，他们目前仍然拒绝无条件地容许政府获得经费、重新开始运行。
Mr. Ryan said before the White House meeting that Republicans were now willing to formally negotiate with Senate Democrats over a long-term, comprehensive budget framework. The Republicans have resisted such a move since April, fearing that it would require compromises, like raising additional tax revenues, that would enrage the party’s conservative base heading into the 2014 midterm elections.
前述白宫会议之前，瑞安表示，共和党人现在愿意与参议院民主党人就长期全面的预算框架进行正式谈判。共和党人自4月以来一直拒绝参与此类谈判，原因是担心自己需要做出妥协，比如增加额外税入，这会激怒该党的保守派基础选民，而2014中期选举又即将到来。
Many House Republicans, leaving a closed-door party caucus earlier Thursday that at times grew contentious, said they would support their leadership’s short-term debt limit proposal. But they said they would do so only if Mr. Obama agreed to negotiate a broader deficit reduction deal, with big savings from entitlement programs.
本周四早些时候，共和党举行了闭门党团会议，会议不时陷入争论之中。很多与会的众议院共和党人表示，他们将支持其领导层的短期债务上限提议。但他们表示，他们这么做的前提是，奥巴马必须同意就更广泛的赤字削减协议进行谈判，大幅削减社会福利方面的支出。
But the president has insisted he will not agree to significant reductions in projected Medicare and Medicaid spending — even his own tentative proposals — unless Republicans agree to raise revenues by curbing tax breaks for corporations and wealthy individuals. And Mr. Boehner in recent days reaffirmed the party’s anti-tax stance, suggesting future talks could founder on the same tax-and-entitlement spending divide that caused past negotiations to collapse.
但奥巴马总统坚称，他不会同意大幅削减联邦医疗保险(Medicare)和联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)计划的开支，哪怕是依据他自己提出的尝试性计划，除非共和党人同意限制针对公司及富人的减税政策，借此增加收入。博纳在最近几天重申了该党的反税收立场，暗示未来的对话可能会因为税收和福利支出方面的分歧而失败，同样的分歧曾致使过去的谈判崩溃。
Economists across a broad spectrum agree that breaching the debt limit would damage the economy and could be calamitous if it is prolonged. The new Republican proposal could temporarily remove that threat.
很多经济学家都同意以下观点，即债务上限触顶将会对经济造成损害，长期持续还可能带来灾难性后果。共和党的新提议也许能暂时解除这一威胁。