WASHINGTON — When the Republican National Committee gathers for its winter meeting here on Wednesday, the action will start a few hours late to accommodate anyone who wants to stop first at the March for Life, the annual anti-abortion demonstration on the National Mall. And if they need a lift to the meeting afterward, they can hop on a free shuttle, courtesy of the Republican Party.
华盛顿——当共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)周三在这里举行冬季会议时，为了照顾想要先去参加“生命游行”(March for Life)的人，会议将推迟几个小时开幕。生命游行是每年都会在国家广场(National Mall)举行的反堕胎示威活动。如果参与者需要搭车去参加接下来的会议，可以跳上一辆由共和党免费提供的摆渡车。
“We thought it only fitting for our members to attend the march,” said Reince Priebus, the party chairman.
共和党全国委员会主席雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)说，“我觉得我们的成员参加这一游行再合适不过。”
Abortion is becoming an unexpectedly animating issue in the 2014 midterm elections. Republicans, through state ballot initiatives and legislation in Congress, are using it to stoke enthusiasm among core supporters. Democrats, mindful of how potent the subject has been in recent campaigns like last year’s governor’s race in Virginia, are looking to rally female voters by portraying their conservative opponents as callous on women’s issues.
堕胎问题正在成为2014年中期选举中一个意料之外的热点问题。通过各州的公民投票和国会立法，共和党正在利用这一问题来激发核心支持者的热情。民主党人深知这个话题在最近几次选战中的威力，比如去年弗吉尼亚州长竞选，所以他们正试图通过渲染保守派的竞争对手对女性议题的麻木不仁，从而吸引女性支持者。
“Republicans have turned the floor of the House into the battleground for their relentless war on women’s health care and freedoms,” said Representative Steve Israel of New York, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “Every time they launch another extreme attack against women’s rights, they lose more ground with women voters.”
民主党国会竞选委员会(Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee)主席、纽约州众议员史蒂夫·伊斯雷尔(Steve Israel)说，“共和党人已经把众议院的会场变成了他们的战场，在妇女的医疗保健和女性自由的问题上无休止地发动攻势。他们对女性权利每发动一次极端打击，都会失去更多的女性选民。“
Aware that their candidates at times have struck the wrong tone on issues of women’s health, Republicans in some states are now framing abortion in an economic context, arguing, for example, that the new federal health law uses public money to subsidize abortion coverage. In the House in the coming weeks, Republicans will make passing the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act” one of their top priorities this year.
共和党人明白他们的候选人有时会在女性健康的问题上发出错误的论调，一些州的共和党人现在正在把堕胎问题框定在经济语境内，比如反对新的联邦医改法案使用公共资金补贴堕胎费用。未来几周在众议院，共和党人将把通过《禁止用税款资助堕胎法案》(No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act)作为今年工作的重点。
Democrats say their success this year will depend on how close they can come, given lower turnout, to President Obama’s overwhelming margins with female voters; in 2008, he enjoyed a 14-point advantage among women, and in 2012, it was 12 points.
民主党人说，鉴于投票率降低，他们今年能否取得成功，将取决于能否接近奥巴马在女性选民中的压倒性优势；2008年，奥巴马在女性选民中领先了14个百分点，2012年领先了12个百分点。
The fraught politics of women’s health care are already surfacing, as restrictions on abortion are appearing on state ballots and becoming the focus of debate in congressional races — many in places like North Carolina and Colorado that could hold the key to whether Republicans can sweep Democrats from power in the Senate and maintain their grip on the House.
女性医疗保健问题引发的政治难题已经浮出水面，限制堕胎的表决选项已经列在了各州的选票上，它也成为国会选举中的辩论焦点——在北卡罗来纳州和科罗拉多州等地的许多人，可能是决定共和党人能否赢得参议院，保住众议院的关键。
“I don’t think this is a niche issue anymore,” said Drew Lieberman, a vice president at Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research, a political consultancy concern, who has advised Democratic congressional candidates and has done polling for Naral Pro-Choice America.
政治咨询机构格林伯格-昆兰-罗斯纳研究所(Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research)的副总裁德鲁·利伯曼(Drew Lieberman)说，“我认为这已经不再是一个少数人的问题。”该公司为民主党国会候选人提供建议，也为美国堕胎权利联盟(Naral Pro-Choice America)开展过民意测验。
In North Carolina, Senator Kay Hagan, a Democrat in a difficult re-election fight, and her allies plan to make an issue of the new restrictions on abortion approved by the Republican-led state legislature.
在北卡罗来纳州，陷入一场艰难连任选战的民主党参议员凯·黑根(Kay Hagan)以及她的多名盟友，打算就共和党领导的州议会通过的对堕胎的最新限制发动攻势。
In Colorado, where Senator Mark Udall, a Democrat, says anger over the Affordable Care Act could hurt his chances, social conservatives have succeeded in placing a constitutional amendment on the ballot that would enshrine legal protections for fetuses. Even if it fails, similar “personhood” measures in Colorado and elsewhere have given Republican turnout a boost in years past.
科罗拉多州参议员马克·尤德尔(Mark Udall)说，《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)引发的不满可能会影响他选举的胜算。该州在社会议题上立场保守的人士，已经成功地在选票上增加了对一项州宪法修正案进行表决的选项，该修正案会对胎儿给予法律保护。即使该修正案的表决没有通过，与此类似向胎儿赋予“人格权利”的表决，也曾在过去几年里，在科罗拉多州和其他地方提升了投票率。
In Oregon, Senator Jeff Merkley could face a similar situation if supporters of an initiative there succeed in getting an anti-abortion measure with a fiscally conservative twist on the ballot: the measure seeks to outlaw the use of state funds to pay for any abortion unless the mother is in grave medical danger.
在俄勒冈州，如果那里的支持者将一项反堕胎的表决选项增加到选票上，参议员杰夫·默克利(Jeff Merkley)可能会面临类似的处境。该项举措寻求立法禁止使用州资金支付堕胎的费用，除非孕妇处在严重的医疗危险中。
“We don’t make this a pro-life thing,” said Jeff Jimerson, who is organizing the petition drive. “This is a pro-taxpayer thing. There are a lot of libertarians in Oregon, people who don’t really care what you do, just don’t make me pay for it.”
正在组织请愿活动的杰夫·吉莫森(Jeff Jimerson)说，“我们不把‘支持生命’作为这件事的主题。在俄勒冈州有许多信奉自由意志的人，他们并不在乎你做什么，只要别让我掏钱就行。”
Coupling the issue of abortion with a subject important to Republicans’ Tea Party followers — government spending — is one way the party is recalibrating its election-year message. Republicans say that by framing the abortion debate in terms of fiscal conservatism, they can make a connection to the issue they believe will ultimately decide who controls Congress next year — the Affordable Care Act.
把堕胎问题和一个对共和党的茶党追随者很重要的议题——政府支出——放在一起，是该党重新调整选举年信息的一种方式。共和党人说，通过在财政保守主义方面框定堕胎辩论，就可以把这与《合理医疗费用法案》联系起来，他们认为这项议题将最终决定明年谁会控制国会。
“For a lot of members politically it ties into the issue they want to be talking about this election, which is Obamacare,” said Tom McClusky, vice president of government affairs for the March for Life.
“生命游行”的政府事务副总裁汤姆·麦克拉斯基(Tom McClusky)说，“在很多成员看来，这在政治上与他们想要在选举中谈论的问题有关，那就是奥巴马医改(Obamacare)。”
Nowhere was the power of the abortion issue more evident recently than in the governor’s race in Virginia, where the Democratic candidate, Terry McAuliffe, won in November in part because women preferred him by nine percentage points over the Republican, Ken Cuccinelli, whom Democrats portrayed as extreme on women’s issues.
最能体现堕胎问题影响力的例子就要数弗吉尼亚的州长竞选。去年11月，民主党候选人特里·麦考利夫(Terry McAuliffe)在弗吉尼亚州长竞选中胜出，部分原因是他在女性选民中的支持率领先了共和党的肯尼斯·库奇内利(Kenneth Cuccinelli)9个百分点，民主党人将后者描绘成了一个在女性问题上持极端立场的人。
Nearly one-third — about $4.6 million — of the $16.4 million that Democrats and their allies spent on broadcast television advertising in Virginia last year dealt with abortion or birth control, according to an analysis by Kantar Media’s Campaign Media Analysis Group, which tracks political advertising.
坎塔媒体(Kantar Media)旗下追踪政治广告的竞选媒体分析集团(Campaign Media Analysis Group)的一份分析报告显示，民主党及其盟友去年在弗吉尼亚州的广播电视宣传花费为1640万美元，其中几乎三分之一——大约460万美元——都与堕胎或节育的议题有关。
Abortion rights groups have built targeting models that allow them to predict an individual voter’s position on women’s health issues. These models, along with similar ones built by the Obama campaign, were factors not just in Virginia last year but also in Democratic electoral victories in 2012.
堕胎权利组织已经建立了定向广告模型，可以预测个体选民在妇女健康问题上的立场。这些模型和奥巴马竞选建立的类似模型一样，不只在去年的弗吉尼亚州长选举中起到了作用，在2012年的民主党选举的胜利中也扮演了角色。