WASHINGTON — The United States carried out an airstrike in Libya early Sunday against the mastermind of the 2013 terrorist seizure of an Algerian gas plant that left 38 foreign hostages dead, American and Libyan officials said on Sunday.
华盛顿——美国和利比亚官方周日称，美国在利比亚实施了空袭，目标是2013年恐怖分子占领一座阿尔及利亚天然气工厂的主使者。那次事件造成了38名外国人质丧生。
It was the first time the American military has carried out any kind of airstrike in Libya since the NATO operation there in 2011 helped oust Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
这是自2011年北约(NATO)在利比亚的行动帮助推翻了穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)以来，美国军方首次在该国开展空袭。
The Libyan government said in a statement Sunday night that the airstrikes killed the terrorist leader, Mokhtar Belmokhtar, and “a number” of other Libyan terrorists in the eastern part of the country.
周日晚，利比亚政府在一份声明中表示，恐怖分子头目穆赫塔尔·贝尔摩塔尔(Mokhtar Belmokhtar)以及该国东部的其他“若干”利比亚恐怖分子已在空袭中丧生。
“The Libyan government announces that American planes undertook action that resulted in the death of the wanted terrorist Mokhtar Belmokhtar and a number of Libyans belonging to one of the terrorist groups in Eastern Libya, after consultation with the Libyan interim government to take action on terrorist leadership present on Libyan soil,” according to a statement released by the government.
“利比亚政府宣布，关于如何打击目前在利比亚境内的恐怖分子头目，美国在与利比亚临时政府进行过协商之后，采取了空袭行动，击毙了一些被通缉的恐怖分子，其中包括穆赫塔尔·贝尔摩塔尔，以及隶属于利比亚东部一个恐怖组织的若干利比亚人，”政府发布的声明称。
American officials confirmed that Mr. Belmokhtar was the target of the strike by at least one American warplane, but they expressed caution about his fate, saying that they needed forensic proof to declare with certainty Mr. Belmokhtar’s death. That could take some time unless terrorist websites issue a statement of mourning.
美国官员证实，贝尔摩塔尔是至少一架美国战机的袭击目标，但他们对此人是否已经丧生态度谨慎，称需要法医学证据来确认贝尔摩塔尔已死。这可能需要一些时间，除非恐怖分子的网站发出了哀悼声明。
“The U.S. military conducted a counterterrorism strike against an Al Qaeda-associated terrorist in Libya,” said Col. Steven H. Warren, a Pentagon spokesman. “We are assessing the results of the operation and will provide additional information as and when appropriate.”
“美军在利比亚开展了一次反恐行动，目标是和基地组织有关的一名恐怖分子，”五角大楼发言人史蒂夫·H·沃伦上校(Col. Steven H. Warren)说。“我们正在评估这次行动的结果，并会在适当的时候公布更多信息。”
Mr. Belmokhtar is an Algerian militant with a long history in the Sahel region, which falls on the southern flank of the Sahara stretching from Senegal to Chad. Although his direct operational ties to Al Qaeda may have lessened, his stature as a terrorist leader has grown.
贝尔摩塔尔是一名阿尔及利亚武装分子，长期活动在萨赫勒地区，位于撒哈拉南侧，从塞内加尔到乍得之间。他与基地组织的直接联系或许已经减弱，但他作为恐怖分子的地位则在上升。
Among his militant names is Laaouar, or the One-Eyed, given after losing an eye to shrapnel. He learned combat skills fighting the Soviet-installed government in Afghanistan.
贝尔摩塔尔绰号独眼，因他曾被弹片击中，一只眼失明而得。他的战斗技能是在阿富汗与苏联扶植的政府作战中磨练出来的。
After returning to Algeria in the 1990s, he joined a militant Algerian group based in Mali. He took up smuggling and kidnapping for ransom; one terrorist raid included the abduction of a Canadian diplomat in 2008.
在20世纪90年代返回阿尔及利亚之后，他加入了总部设在马里的阿尔及利亚武装团伙，开展走私和绑架勒索活动；在2008年的一次恐怖袭击中，一名加拿大外交官遭到绑架。
Mr. Belmokhtar became a leading figure in Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, or A.Q.I.M., the Qaeda affiliate in North Africa. But in 2012, he split with the group to lead the Al Mulathameen Battalion, which was officially designated as a foreign terrorist organization by the State Department in 2013.
贝尔摩塔尔成了基地组织在北非的分支“伊斯兰马格里布”（Islamic Maghreb，或称AQIM），的头目。但在2012年，他与该团体分裂，开始领导“蒙面军旅”(Al Mulathameen Battalion)，该组织在2013年被美国国务院正式归类为外国恐怖组织。
In January 2013, Mr. Belmokhtar led the attack on a gas plant in Algeria that resulted in the death of 38 civilians, including three Americans. Four months later, his group joined with a Western African terrorist faction — the Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa — to carry out attacks in Niger that killed at least 20 people, the State Department said.
2013年1月，贝尔摩塔尔带人袭击了阿尔及利亚天然气厂，导致38名平民丧生，其中包括三名美国人。四个月后，他的团体与一个西非恐怖主义派别——西非统一与圣战运动(Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa)——结成联盟，在尼日尔开展袭击，造成了至少20人遇难，国务院说。
Two senior American officials said on Sunday that the Qaeda operative, who was not identified, had been tracked by American surveillance aircraft in Libya, but the decision to carry out a strike against him had been made in just the past few days.
美国的两名高级官员在周日表示，美国在利比亚的侦察机一直在跟踪基地组织的这名特工，但对其进行打击的决定是过去几天才做出的。他们未透露这名特工的身份。
“It was a strike on an extremist leadership target whom we believed posed a threat against American and Western interests,” said one official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss confidential intelligence reports.
“这是针对极端分子领导层的攻击，我们相信，这些人对美国和西方利益构成了威胁，”一位官员说，因为事关机密情报，他不愿具名。
“He was a member of Al Qaeda, so he was fair game,” said a second official, who did not elaborate on whether the extremist was a member of Al Qaeda’s headquarters in Pakistan or affiliated with a regional branch of the terrorist organization.
“他是基地组织的成员，所以这很公平，”另一名官员说，他没有详细说明这名极端主义分子是基地组织巴基斯坦总部的成员，还是隶属于该组织在某地的分支。