THE Western response to the death of Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud, king of Saudi Arabia and custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, followed two paths. Along one, various officials and luminaries offered the gestures — half-mast flags, public obsequies — expected when a great statesman enters the hereafter. John Kerry described the late monarch as “a man of wisdom and vision” and a “revered leader.” Tony Blair called him a “modernizer of his country” and a “staunch advocate of interfaith relations,” who was “loved by his people and will be deeply missed.”
沙特国王、两个圣地的监护人阿卜杜拉·本·阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹·沙特(Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz al-Saud)逝世后，西方世界分别以两种方式做出了回应。一种方式是，各种名人政要主动做出的象征性姿态——降半旗、公开哀悼，与其他伟大的政治人物去世后的情形一样。约翰·克里(John Kerry)将这位已故的国王形容为“一个有远见卓识的人”和“一位受到崇敬的领袖”。托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)称他是“国家现代化的推动者”和“不同信仰间关系的坚定倡导者”，“受到了人民的爱戴，将被深深地缅怀”。
Along the other path, anyone outside Western officialdom was free to tell the fuller truth: that Abdullah presided over one of the world’s most wicked nonpariah states, whose domestic policies are almost cartoonishly repressive and whose international influence has been strikingly malign. His dynasty is founded on gangsterish control over a precious natural resource, sustained by an unholy alliance with a most cruel interpretation of Islam and protected by the United States and its allies out of fear of worse alternatives if it fell.
另一方式是，西方政界之外的人们都在自由地谈论更全面的真相：阿卜杜拉生前执掌着世界上最恶劣但却不被国际社会排斥的国家之一，其国内政策的压迫性如同天方夜谭一般令人难以置信，其国际影响也十分恶劣。他的王朝建立在对一种珍贵自然资源的强盗式的控制上，维系它的是与一种对伊斯兰主义的最残酷诠释的邪恶联盟。它还受到了美国及其盟友的庇护，因为后者担心，如果沙特政府倒台，取代它的会更糟。
Was he a “modernizer”? Well, there were gestures, like giving women the vote in elections that don’t particularly matter. But Abdullah’s most important recent legacy has been counterrevolutionary, in his attempts to rally a kind of axis of authoritarianism against the influence of the Arab Spring.
他是“国家现代化的推动者”吗？好吧，他是有过一些象征性的举措，比如让女性在不太重要的选举中拥有投票权。但阿卜杜拉近期最重要的遗产是对革命的镇压，他曾反复尝试召集一个独裁主义的轴心，遏制阿拉伯之春的影响力。
Did he believe in “interfaith relations”? Sure, so long as the other faiths were safely outside Saudi territory, where religious uniformity is enforced by the police and by the lash.
他相信“信仰间的关系”吗？当然，只要其他信仰都在沙特领土之外的安全范围内。在沙特，执行宗教统一的是警察和笞刑。
Will he be “deeply missed”? Well, not by dissidents, Shiites, non-Muslims, protestors in neighboring countries ... and for everyone else, only by comparison with the incompetence or chaos or still greater cruelty that might come next.
他会被“深深地缅怀”吗？这个嘛，反正异见人士、什叶派、非穆斯林人士，周边国家的抗议者不会。而对于其他所有人来说，只有看到了接下来可能出现的无能、混乱或是更恶劣的残暴行为之后才会如此。
But Americans should feel some limited sympathy for the late king, because our relationship with his kingdom has something in common with his own. Like so many despots, Abdullah was to some extent a prisoner of the system he inherited, interested in reform in theory but unable to find the room or take the risks required to see it through. And we in the United States are prisoners as well: handcuffed to Saudi Arabia, bound to its corruptions and repression, with no immediate possibility of escape.
但美国人应该对这位已故的国王怀有一些有限的同情，因为我们与他本人在和他的国家的关系上有一些共同点。就像许多专制君主一样，阿卜杜拉某种程度上是他所继承的体制的囚徒，在理论上，他对改革有兴趣，但他找不到改革的空间，也无法承担坚持改革所必须承担的风险。在美国的我们也是囚徒：我们和沙特阿拉伯拷在了一起，在短期根本无法逃脱它的腐败和压迫。
Much of America’s post-Cold War policy-making in the Middle East can be understood as a search for a way to slip those cuffs. Three consecutive presidents have tried to reshape the region so that alliances with despotic regimes will no longer seem so inevitable or necessary. And all of them have failed.
美国冷战后的中东决策很大一部分可以理解为是在寻找取下这些手铐的方法。接连有三位总统试图重塑这一地区，好让与暴君政权的联盟不再像现在这样不可避免或不可或缺。但他们都失败了。
For Bill Clinton, solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was supposed to be the catalyst — in ways never quite elucidated — for reform and progress in the wider Arab world. For George W. Bush, or at least his ambitious advisers, the invasion of Iraq was supposed to create a brilliant alternative to our Saudi alliance — a new special Middle Eastern relationship, but with an oil-producing liberal democracy this time.
对于比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)来说，解决巴以冲突本应是更广泛的阿拉伯世界的改革和进步的催化剂，虽然这其中的原因从未被阐明。对于乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)来说，或者至少对他雄心勃勃的顾问们来说，入侵伊拉克本应催生出一个能够代替与沙特结盟的绝佳方案，那将是一种新的特殊的中东关系，是与生产石油的自由民主国家的结盟。
For President Obama, there have been multiple ideas for how we might, as an administration official put it during our Libya campaign, “realign our interests and our values.” The president has tried rhetorical outreach to transcend (or at least obscure) our coziness with tyrants; he tried, in Libya and haltingly in Egypt, to put his administration on the side of the Arab Spring; he and Mr. Kerry have made efforts to restart the Israeli-Palestinian peace process; he has sought some kind of realigning deal with that other font of cruelty, the Islamic Republic of Iran.
对于奥巴马总统而言，正如一名政府官员在利比亚运动中所说的，“重新调整我们的利益和价值”的方法有很多。总统尝试通过言辞去主动感召，试图超越（或至少是掩盖）我们对暴君示好的做法；他尝试在利比亚问题上让政府站在阿拉伯之春的一边，在对待埃及问题时似乎也有此意；他和克里努力重启了巴以和平进程；他寻求在一定程度上调整与另一个残暴政权伊朗伊斯兰共和国的关系。
The Iran project is ongoing, but so far all these efforts either have led (in the case of our Libyan crusade) to outright chaos, or have seen things cycle back to the same old stalemates, the same morally corrosive status quo.
关于伊朗的计划正在推进当中，但迄今为止，所有的努力要么引发了彻底的混乱（比如我们在利比亚的行动），要么让局势回到了曾经的僵持局面，同样道德腐坏的状况。
Here Obama’s experiences are of a piece with Bush’s, albeit without the same cost in blood and treasure. From Saddam’s Iraq to Mubarak’s Egypt, from Libya to the West Bank, the last two presidents have repeatedly pulled the curtain back, or had it pulled back for them, on potential alternatives to the kind of realpolitik that binds us to the Saudis, and potential aftermaths to the dynasty’s eventual fall. So far, they’ve found nothing good.
奥巴马的经历与布什如出一辙，虽然没有付出同样的鲜血和财富的代价。从萨达姆的伊拉克到穆巴拉克的埃及，从利比亚到约旦河西岸，后两位总统都看到了一些替代把我们与沙特绑在一起的实用政治的可能的解决方案，以及沙特王朝最终覆灭的可能后果。迄今为止，他们没有发现什么好的选择。
Meanwhile, the Saudis themselves are still there. And since much of what’s gone bad now surrounds them — the Islamic State very much in business in the north, Iranian-backed rebels seizing power in Yemen to the south — the American interest in the stability of their kingdom, the continuation of the royal family’s corrupt and wicked rule, is if anything even stronger than before.
与此同时，沙特人自己还在那里。由于他们已经被糟糕局势所包围——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)在北部兴风作浪，在南部，伊朗支持的叛乱分子在也门夺取了政权——美国对这个国家的稳定，也就是让这个皇室家族腐败邪恶的统治延续下去的愿望，比以往更加强大。