THERE’S a lot of talk these days about raising the debt ceiling, to create time for more meaningful budget negotiations. But why should anyone expect Act II of this tragedy to unfold any differently from Act I? What we need most isn’t more time, but to change the debt-ceiling game itself, to make “debt-ceiling moments” less fraught with peril, less prone to stalemate, and more conducive to productive negotiations.
最近有很多有关提高债务上限的讨论，认为这样可以为更切实的预算谈判创造时间。但为什么大家认为悲剧的第二幕和第一幕会有不同呢？我们最需要的不是更多的时间，而是改变债务上限之争本身，使“债务上限时刻”变得不再充满危机，不会动辄陷入僵局，更有利于开展富有成效的谈判。
The basic problem is a lack of trust. Republicans don’t trust Democrats to make substantial concessions on the debt, while Democrats believe that, no matter what they put on the table, Republicans will always demand more. Why then bother negotiating at all?
基本问题在于信任的缺乏。共和党人不信任民主党人，不愿在债务问题上做出重大让步，而民主党人则认为无论他们提出什么方案，共和党人总是会索要更多。那何必费劲谈判呢？
In game theory, this sort of quandary has a name: “the holdup problem.” Holdup problems arise anytime you need to trust someone else to follow through on a commitment, whether in business, romance or politics. We solve the holdup problem in everyday life quite simply, by treating one another with good will, and that’s how politicians used to get the government’s business done as well. That’s gone now, unfortunately, but there are other solutions.
在博弈论中，这种两难困境有一个名称——“套牢问题”(holdup problem)。每当你需要信任某人可以履行某个承诺时，就会出现套牢问题，无论是在商业、爱情还是政治中，情况都是如此。在日常生活中，我们能够通过善待他人轻松解决此类问题，政治人士过去也利用这种方式完成政府工作。遗憾的是，那都是过去的事了。不过也有别的解决方案。
When a transaction isn’t happening because of a lack of trust, the affected parties can still often reach a deal by tying their own hands, limiting their ability to take advantage of the other side.
当由于缺乏信任而没能开展谈判时，受影响的一方仍然能够通过自缚手脚，限制己方占对方便宜的能力，从而达成共识。
In the business world, such self-restraint often takes the form of legal contracts. For example, those who want to learn about a new invention often sign a nondisclosure agreement, since otherwise the inventor would not trust them enough to share the idea. Politicians can’t make binding commitments as easily as businesspeople do. Nonetheless, the basic idea of changing a game for the better by limiting options could in fact help Republicans and Democrats fashion an effective exit strategy from the current debt-ceiling crisis.
在商界，这种自我约束的方式通常以法律合同的形式呈现。例如，那些想要了解新发明的人通常会签订保密协定，否则发明者不会完全信任他们，与他们分享创意。政治人士无法像商人一样，简单地做出约束性承诺。尽管如此，通过限制选项改善博弈行动的基本理念确实能够帮助共和党人和民主党人制定一个有效的退出策略，摆脱目前的债务上限危机。
Here’s one way that could happen. Imagine that, in the negotiations over this problem, the Republicans were to suggest making the next debt ceiling automatically self-extending if an agreed-upon debt-reduction target were met. Such a self-extension provision would allow both parties to avoid the next debt-ceiling crisis. (If the debt-reduction target wasn’t met, we would have to endure another debt-ceiling crisis.) The strategic benefits of tying your own hands are counterintuitive, and some fiscal conservatives will undoubtedly hate this idea. Yet limiting your own options can be essential to getting others to do what you want.
这里有一个或许能解决问题的办法。想象一下，在就该问题开展的谈判中，共和党可以建议，如果达到了一致认同的债务削减目标，未来的债务上限就自动延期。这种自动延期安排将促使两党避免下一个债务上限危机。（如果没有达成债务削减目标，我们将会经受另一个债务上限危机。）自缚手脚的战略意义是和直觉相悖的，毫无疑问，一些财政保守主义者会讨厌这个主意。然而，要让别人按照你的意愿行事，限制你自己的选择有时候是必要的。
Constantly wielding the threat of a debt default has, ironically, undermined fiscal conservatives’ ability to extract meaningful concessions on the debt, as it has hardened Democrats’ resolve not to give in to such threats. The best way forward for those who care about controlling our nation’s debt isn’t to make more threats, but to give up the ability to conduct last-minute brinkmanship, in exchange for tying the next debt ceiling to a fixed target for debt reduction.
讽刺的是，不断拿债务违约相要挟，反而是对财政保守主义者不利的，削弱了他们在债务上迫使对方做出切实让步的能力，因为这令民主党人绝不屈服于此类威胁的决心更加坚定起来。对于那些关心美国债务管控问题的人来说，最好的推动方式，不是做出更多的威胁，而是放弃在最后关头实施边缘政策，从而将未来的债务上限与债务削减的固定目标捆绑在一起。
Since both parties will have negotiated this debt-reduction target, both will have an incentive to reach an agreement. There will still be fierce disagreement over how best to achieve the target, but at least they may finally start moving toward a common goal, of putting America on a sound fiscal footing.
既然两党将会就这个债务削减目标开展谈判，双方都会有达成协议的动力。对于如何最好地完成目标，双方会存在严重分歧，但也许至少他们终于可以开始朝着共同的目标前进，为美国打下一个健康的财政基础了。