James Cahill, one of the foremost authorities on Chinese art, whose interpretations of Chinese painting for the West influenced generations of scholars, died on Friday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 87.
美国著名中国美术史学者高居翰(James Cahill)周五在加州伯克利家中去世，享年87岁。高居翰对中国美术作品的解读影响了西方几代学者。
The cause was complications of prostate cancer, his daughter, Sarah Cahill, said.
他的女儿萨拉·卡希尔 (Sarah Cahill)说，他因前列腺癌并发症去世。
Professor Cahill, who taught at the University of California, Berkeley, from 1965 until his retirement in 1994, was among a group of eminent art historians who, from the late 1950s to the 1970s, researched and cataloged Chinese painting. At the time, Western interest in Chinese art was far less than it is today, said Patricia Berger, professor of Chinese art at Berkeley and one of his former students.
高居翰教授从1965年开始到1994年退休前都在加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)任教， 他是上世纪50年代到70年代对中国美术作品进行研究和编目造册的一批著名美术史学家之一。伯克利分校研究中国艺术的白瑞霞 (Patricia Berger)教授说，当时的西方对中国艺术的兴趣远不能与现在相比。白瑞霞曾师从于高居翰。
Working with the Swedish scholar Osvald Siren and later on his own, Professor Cahill recorded and photographed Chinese masterworks, building a canon on which to understand the development of Chinese painting over the centuries, Professor Berger said.
她说，高居翰教授一开始是和瑞典学者喜仁龙(Osvald Siren)合作，后独自展开工作，他对中国绘画精品进行纪录和拍照，建立起一套正典体系，在此基础上去理解中国绘画千百年来的发展。
In his analysis of paintings, Professor Cahill typically tried to learn as much as possible about the character of an artist from the brushwork. This formal analysis led to an interest in authenticity, a major theme in the study of Chinese art; in China, copying revered works is a tradition, and some copies are regarded as masterpieces in their own right.
在对绘画作品的分析中，高居翰教授通常会尽可能透过画的笔法来了解一位画家的性格。这种形式分析演变成为对艺术品鉴定的兴趣，而这是中国艺术研究中一个主要课题；中国有临仿著名作品的传统，一些临仿作品本身也被认为是大作。
Professor Cahill set off an explosive debate about authenticity in 1999 when he said a painting that had become an important part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Chinese collection was a fake.
高居翰教授在1999年曾引发了一场关于作品鉴定的热烈辩论，当时他说大都会博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)中国收藏中有一件重要藏品是伪作。
The work, a scroll titled “Riverbank,” was said to be by Dong Yuan, a 10th-century painter. Professor Cahill said it was probably the work of Zhang Daqian, a 20th-century Chinese artist, collector and master forger whose own work sells for millions of dollars.
这部作品是据称出自10世纪画家董源之手的《溪岸图》。高居翰教授当时说，此画可能为张大千所作。张大千是20世纪中国画家、收藏家以及临仿大师，他自己的作品也价值连城。
Professor Cahill presented his conclusions during an international symposium at the Met, citing evidence based on the brushwork and seals used in the painting. Maxwell K. Hearn, of the Met’s Asian department, defended the authenticity of the work, and it remains on display at the museum, attributed to Dong Yuan, although Professor Cahill remained convinced that it is by Zhang.  
高居翰在大都会博物馆的一次内部研讨会上提出了自己的结论，他说证据来源于这幅画的笔法和印章。大都会博物馆亚洲艺术部主任何慕文(Maxwell K. Hearn)认为这部作品是真品，至今该画仍在馆内展出，并标为董源作品，而高居翰教授始终认为其作者是张大千。
“I don’t think it will be ever finally resolved,” said Julia White, senior curator for Asian art at the Berkeley Art Museum and another student of Professor Cahill’s.
伯克利艺术博物馆(Berkeley Art Museum)亚洲艺术高级策展人、高居翰教授的另一位学生白珠丽(Julia White)说，“我认为这个问题永远不会有结论。”
In an email on Tuesday, Mr. Hearn said that few scholars now believe “Riverbank” to be a modern forgery. But he praised Professor Cahill, whom he called “a mentor to us all,” for his healthy skepticism.
何慕文周二在一封邮件中说，现在几乎没有学者相信《溪岸图》是近代仿作。但他赞扬了高居翰教授的合理质疑，称他是“我们所有人的导师”。
Professor Cahill’s son Nick said that his father reveled in such debates, “not for the controversy but for the argument, the dialogue, for the engagement in the field.”
高居翰教授的儿子尼克(Nick)说，父亲很享受这样的争辩，“不是因为争议性，而是因为观点、对话，和如同身临战场般的交锋。”
James Francis Cahill was born on Aug. 13, 1926, in Fort Bragg, Calif.  Originally a linguist, he worked as an Army translator in Japan in 1946 and in Korea, where he became interested in collecting paintings, from 1946 to 1948. He received his bachelor’s degree in Oriental languages in 1950 from the University of California, Berkeley, and his master’s and Ph.D. in art history from the University of Michigan.
高居翰1926年8月13日出生于加利福尼亚州的布拉格堡。他最初是一名语言学家，1946年在日本、1946年到1948年在朝鲜担任美国陆军翻译官，并在那里萌生了对绘画收藏的兴趣。1950年他在伯克利分校获得了东方语言学士学位，后来又在密歇根大学(University of Michigan)获得了艺术史硕士和博士学位。
In 1954 and 1955 he studied at Kyoto University on a Fulbright scholarship. He joined the staff of the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington in 1956 and was curator of Chinese art there until 1965.
1954年到1955年，他作为富布莱特(Fulbright)学者在京都大学(Kyoto University)访学。1956年，他开始在华盛顿的弗瑞尔艺廊(Freer Gallery of Art)担任中国艺术策展人直至1965年。
In 1973 he visited China for the first time as part of a delegation of art historians. Fearing that many works had been destroyed or moved out of the country, he discovered instead that paintings he had been able to see only in old catalogs were still in Beijing.
1973年，他随一个艺术史学家代表团首次访问中国。原本担心许多作品已经被破坏或者流失到海外的他发现，之前只能在古旧的辑录里看到的一些画作，仍然藏于北京。
After that he made frequent visits to China, where he lectured, met with other Chinese art scholars and was given access to painting collections.
此后，他频繁地访问中国，在中国讲课，并与中国的艺术专家见面，也获得了一睹某些绘画收藏的机会。
Later in the 1970s he began exploring deeper questions about the art, like whether Chinese painting had been influenced by Western images, and he began to branch out from studying the masters and their techniques and look instead at paintings that had been ignored, like the popular works, often by unnamed artists, that Chinese people had in their homes. 
上世纪70年代晚些时候，他开始探究有关艺术的更深层次问题，比如中国的绘画是否受到了西方形象的影响，他还从研究大师及其技法向外拓展，开始关注曾经被忽略的画作，比如中国人家中挂着的通俗画作，这些作品通常出自不知名的画家。
In 1978 and 1979 he gave the Charles Eliot Norton lectures at Harvard. They were published as a book, “The Compelling Image: Nature and Style in Seventeenth-Century Chinese Painting.”
1978年到1979年，他在哈佛大学(Harvard)的诺顿讲座(Charles Eliot Norton)进行讲学。讲学内容后出整理出版为《气势撼人：十七世纪中国绘画中的自然与风格》(The Compelling Image: Nature and Style in Seventeenth-Century Chinese Painting)一书。
In 2010 the Smithsonian Institution awarded him the Charles Lang Freer Medal for his lifetime contributions to the history of Asian and Near Eastern art. He left many of his own paintings to the Berkeley Art Museum.
2010年，史密森尼学会(Smithsonian Institution)向高居翰教授颁发了查尔斯·朗·弗瑞尔奖章(Charles Lang Freer Medal)，表彰他对亚洲和近东艺术史的终生贡献。他把自己的许多画作留给了伯克利艺术博物馆。
His marriages to Dorothy Dunlap and Hsingyuan Tsao ended in divorce. In addition to Nick and Sarah, children from his first marriage, his survivors include two sons from his second, Benedict and Julian, and six grandchildren. At his death Professor Cahill had just completed a collaboration with Ms. White on an exhibition at the Berkeley Art Museum focused on images of women in Chinese painting of the Qing dynasty (1644-1911).
高居翰与多萝西·邓拉普(Dorothy Dunlap) 以及曹星原(Hsingyuan Tsao)的婚姻均以离婚告终。除了他首次婚姻的子女尼克和萨拉，他还和第二任妻子育有两个儿子——贝内迪克特(Benedict)和朱利安(Julian)。他还有六个孙辈。高居翰教授去世前刚刚与白珠丽合作，在伯克利艺术博物馆举办了一次展览，关注的是清朝（1644-1911）绘画中的女性形象。
He had been confined to bed in his final few weeks, his daughter said, but he continued to work on a video lecture series on the history of Chinese painting. It can be seen on his website, where he also reflected on his life and illness in what he called Bedridden Blog.
高居翰的女儿说，他在生命的最后几个星期里一直卧病在床，但并没有停下手头的一部中国绘画史系列教学视频的制作。在高居翰的网站上可以看到这些视频，此外还有一个名为“病榻日志”(Bedridden Blog)的博客，他在其中回顾了自己人生和病情。
In a December post, he wrote of the lecture series as one part of his legacy. “Basically,” he said, “it is a problem of how to convert what is in my mind, a great store of information and images and ideas that cannot be duplicated in the mind of anyone else alive, into a communicable form so that it is preserved.” 
在12月的一篇博文中，高居翰写道，讲课视频是自己遗产的一部分。他说，“这基本上是一个如何把我脑子里的东西转化成一种可以传播的形式、从而得以保存下来的问题。因为我脑海中储存了大量的信息、图像和想法，它们不能被复制到任何一个活着的人的思想里。”