After decades of worsening diets and sharp increases in obesity, Americans’ eating habits have begun changing for the better.
经过了几十年不健康的饮食和急剧增高的肥胖率之后，美国人的饮食习惯终于开始改观。
Calories consumed daily by the typical American adult, which peaked around 2003, are in the midst of their first sustained decline since federal statistics began to track the subject, more than 40 years ago. The number of calories that the average American child takes in daily has fallen even more — by at least 9 percent.
从2003年的最高峰后，一个典型美国成年人每日的卡路里摄取量已经开始降低。这是自从40多年前开始有纪录以来，第一次有下降的趋势。美国儿童日均摄取量尤其为是——下降了至少9%。
The declines cut across most major demographic groups — including higher- and lower-income families, and blacks and whites — though they vary somewhat by group.
虽然有些微的差别但这个下降趋势在多个主要社会族群内都为一致——不论家庭收入高低也不论是黑人还是白人。
In the most striking shift, the amount of full-calorie soda drunk by the average American has dropped 25 percent since the late 1990s.
尤其注意的是，从90年代后期开始，美国人对非低卡汽水的饮用已经减少了25％。
As calorie consumption has declined, obesity rates appear to have stopped rising for adults and school-aged children and have come down for the youngest children, suggesting the calorie reductions are making a difference.
从肥胖症比例在成年人内不再攀升，以及在最小的学龄儿童也有降低的趋势来看，这都说明是卡路里摄取量的降低产生的影响。
The reversal appears to stem from people’s growing realization that they were harming their health by eating and drinking too much. The awareness began to build in the late 1990s, thanks to a burst of scientific research about the costs of obesity, and to public health campaigns in recent years.
这个反转趋势显然是因为人们开始惊觉到放纵饮食对身体的危害。这个从90年代开始的改观意识都是拜赐于大量关于肥胖症危害的科学研究和近年来对公共健康的宣导活动。
The encouraging data does not mean an end to the obesity epidemic: More than a third of American adults are still considered obese, putting them at increased risk of diabetes, heart disease and cancer. Americans are still eating far too few fruits and vegetables and far too much junk food, even if they are eating somewhat less of it, experts say.
这些听起来令人振奋的消息可不代表肥胖症的疫情即将解除。超过三分之一的美国成年人依然被归类于肥胖族。这些人更容易患得糖尿病，心脏疾病以及癌症。专家们表示，美国人对蔬果的摄取量仍然太低。即使大家对垃圾食物已经少吃了，但吃的还是太多。
But the changes in eating habits suggest that what once seemed an inexorable decline in health may finally be changing course. Since the mid-1970s, when American eating habits began to rapidly change, calorie consumption had been on a near-steady incline.
饮食习惯的改变可能对我们以往一直视为必然的健康衰退提供了一线生机。从70年代中开始，美国人的饮食习惯急速的改变，卡路里摄取量也一直持续攀升。
“I think people are hearing the message, and diet is slowly improving,” said Dr. Dariush Mozaffarian, the dean of the Friedman School of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University.
Tufts大学的营养学主任Mozaffarian医生说：“我认为大家终于有在听，大家也开始慢慢地注意饮食。”
Barry Popkin, a University of North Carolina professor who has studied food data extensively, described the development as a “turning point.
对食品管理有大量研究的北卡大学教授Popkin形容这样的发展为一个转折点。
There is no perfect way to measure American calorie consumption. But three large sources of data about diet all point in the same direction. Detailed daily food diaries tracked by government researchers, data from food bar codes and estimates of food production all show reductions in the calories consumed by the average American since the early 2000s. Those signals, along with the flattening of the national obesity rate, have convinced many public health researchers that the changes are meaningful.
虽然对美国人的热量摄取没有完美的测量法，但三大食品资料来源的箭头都指向同一个地方。政府食品机构研究员的详细饮食日记，食品条码资料和食品产量的估计都显示从2000年以来，美国人的日均热量摄取有下降的趋势。这些信号，加上肥胖症人口不再攀升，都足以说服公共健康研究者这些变化并不是偶然。
The eating changes have been the most substantial in households with children. Becky Lopes-Filho’s 4-year-old son, Sebastian, has always been at the top of the growth chart for weight. Ms. Lopes-Filho, 35, is the operations manager of a pizzeria in Cambridge, Mass., and her son, like her, loves food. As he has gotten older, she has grown more concerned about his cravings for sweets. Instead of a cookie every day now, she said, she has been trying to limit him to one a week. “If he was given access, he would just go nuts,” she said. “He, I think, would tend to be a super obese kid.”
这些饮食习惯的改变在有孩童的家庭内最为明显。Lopes Filho女士的四岁儿子 Sebastian 一直在体重表上名列前茅。35岁在麻州一家披萨店当经理的 Lopes Filho女士，和她儿子一样，都好大快朵颐。儿子越大，她开始对儿子爱吃甜食感到担忧。以前每天给儿子一块饼乾的她，现在试图少到每一个星期才给一块。她说 “如果他拿得到，一定吃得没完没了。我觉得我儿子极有可能成为一个超胖小子。”
There is no single moment when American attitudes toward eating changed, but researchers point to a 1999 study as a breakthrough. That year, researchers from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention published a paper in The Journal of the American Medical Association that turned into something of a blockbuster.
美国人对饮食的态度从来没有大变动，但研究者指出在1999年有个突破性的改变。那一年，疾病预防控制中心的研究者在美国医学协会期刊内发表了一篇研究报告。这篇报告后来家喻户晓。
The paper included bright blue maps illustrating worsening obesity rates in the 1980s and 1990s in all 50 states. Researchers knew the obesity rate was rising, but Dr. Ali Mokdad, the paper’s lead author, said that when he presented the maps at conferences, even the experts were gasping. A year later, he published another paper, with a similar set of maps, showing a related explosion in diabetes diagnoses. “People became more aware of it in a very visual and impactful way,” said Hank Cardello, a former food industry executive who is now a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute, a conservative policy center. “That created a lot of attention and concern.”
报告里的蓝图凸显了80和90年代在全美50州内的人口肥胖率越演越剧。带领这份研究的 Mokdad 医生说即使肥胖率的攀升是皆所众知，但他发表蓝图时还是讶异了许多专家。隔年，他又另外发表了一份报告，利用类似的蓝图，显示出一系列相关糖尿病诊断的爆增。保守派Hudson政策机构内的一位前食品高层经理 Cardello 说，“这些看得到也感受得到的数据让人印象深刻。这使得大家开始关注和关心。”
Shortly afterward, the surgeon general, Dr. David Satcher, issued a report — “Call to Action to Prevent and Decrease Overweight and Obesity” — modeled on the famous 1964 surgeon general’s report on tobacco. The 2001 report summarized the increasing evidence that obesity was a risk factor for several chronic diseases, and said controlling children’s weight should be a priority, to prevent the onset of obesity-related illnesses.
不久后，一位权威外科医师 Satcher 医生提出了 “呼吁减轻体重和肥胖避免行动”的报告。 这是彷照1964年外科医师对菸草危害警告的着名报告。2001年的这份报告总结指出有越来越多的证明肥胖对数个慢性疾病来说是个风险因素。报告还建议控制住儿童的体重是当务之急，以防以后出现其他的肥胖相关疾病。“
Slowly, the messages appear to have sunk in with the public. By 2003, 60 percent of Americans said they wanted to lose weight, according to Gallup, up from 52 percent in 1990 and 35 percent in the 1950s.
这些信息大家开始听到。至2003年，60%的美国人说他们想要减肥。这个比例在1990年只有52%，而在五零年代更只有35%。
The Obama administration has increased pressure. The Affordable Care Act, passed in 2010, required chain restaurants to publish the calorie content of their meals. The federal government has also changed requirements, making school lunches healthier, although the effort has created some backlash.
奥巴马政府对此开始施压。2010年通过的平价医疗法桉要求连锁餐厅必需标列出所有食品的卡路里含量。联邦政府也改变政策使得学校内的午餐更健康，即使某些人对此举不以为是。
Several cities have gone further. Philadelphiasubsidizes produce purchases for the poor. New York limits the kind of food available in day care centers. Berkeley, Calif., last year became the first city in the United States to tax sugar-sweetened beverages. The evidence for the effectiveness of these interventions is mixed, but their popularity reflects public health officials’ emphasis on diet and obesity.
有几个城市做的更过。费城对低收入群提供资助购买新鲜蔬果。纽约市则限制幼儿所内能够供应那些食品。就在去年，加州的 Berkeley 成为全美第一个对加糖饮品课税的城市。这些干预政策的成效有好有坏但是它们之所以得人心就反映了大家有在听公共健康官员对饮食与肥胖预防的呼吁。
Still, the timeline of the calorie declines suggests that people started eating a little less before policy makers got involved. That follows the pattern for tobacco use, which peaked right around the time of the 1964 surgeon general’s report. The policy changes that many credit with the country’s sharp reductions in smoking — advertising bans, warning labels, taxes and restrictions on smoking in public — came later, accelerating change after attitudes had already begun to shift.
从卡路里摄取量降低的时间表上看得出来，人们在政府干预以前就已经开始吃的比较少。这与菸草使用降低的模式一致。菸草使用率的顶峰就是在外科医师发出警告报告的1964那一年。导致吸菸者大幅减少大家都归功于广告禁令，危害标语，菸草课税以及限制在公共场所吸烟的这些政策。其实这些政策只是在人们已经对吸菸态度改观后加速了改变而已。
The anti-obesity public health campaigns have focused on one subject more than any other: beverages.
这次大众抗肥运动有个头号敌人——饮料
Anti-soda messages hit their target. Americans, on average, purchased about 40 gallons of full-calorie soda a year in 1998, according to sales data from the industry trade publication Beverage Digest analyzed by the Center for Science in the Public Interest. That fell to 30 gallons in 2014, about the level that Americans bought in 1980, before the obesity rates took off.
反对喝汽水就成了主要目标。根据业者的销售数据，美国人在1998年平均买了40加仑的非低卡汽水。到了2014年，汽水购买跌到了30加仑。这数据和1980年时差不多，肥胖率就是当年开始上升的。
“I think the attitude more and more in this country is that it’s not a good idea to consume a lot of soda,” said Dr. Satcher, now a professor at the Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta.
Satcher 医生说 “我认为美国人对喝太多汽水的态度越来越觉得是不健康的。”他现在任教于亚特兰大Morehouse医学院当教授。
Beverage companies have reacted by marketing diet drinks and investing heavily in new products, including iced teas and flavored water. “A lot of the changes we are seeing are consumer-driven,” said John Sicher, Beverage Digest’s publisher.
对此回应，饮料公司开始行销低卡饮品并巨额投资开发新产品，包括冰茶和加味水。饮料文摘出版人 Sicher 说 “我们看到的这些改变其实许多都是消费者要的。”
Outside of beverages, there are few clear trends. Experts who have examined the data say the reductions do not mean that Americans are flocking to farmer’s markets and abandoning fast food. Consumption of fruits and vegetables remains low; consumption of desserts remains high. Instead, people appear to be eating a little less of everything. Although consumption in nearly every category has been “cut some,” said Mr. Popkin, “the food part of our diet is horrendous and remains horrendous.”
除了饮品，还有几个明显的趋势。分析资料的专家指出摄取热量的减少不代表现在美国人就一窝蜂的挤去果农市场或者就不吃垃圾食物。鲜果蔬菜还是低迷，而甜品也还是人气旺。其实，大家只是每一种食品都少吃些。Popkin 说 “每一种食品类别的用量都有降低，但我们放入口的东西还是乱七八糟。”
The calorie reductions are seen across nearly every demographic group, but not equally. White families have reduced their calorie consumption more than black and Hispanic families. Most starkly, families with children have cut back more than households with adults living alone, further evidence, experts say, that the public health emphasis on childhood obesity is driving the changes.
卡路里摄取量的减少在几乎每一个社会族群内都看得到，但不是等量。白人家庭比黑人和拉丁族家庭减少的幅度更多。说穿了，有小孩的家庭比只有成年人的家庭减低了更多的卡路里。专家说这就是针对儿童肥胖症做的公益广告有了奏效的证明。
Ms. Lopes-Filho said she’s seen how her concern about her son’s diet has subtly changed her own eating habits. “I think I’m still sneaking stuff behind his back, but I have tried to change,” she said. “I haven’t been drinking soda or doing a lot of sugary drinks in a while, but all because of him — because I know that if I have it, he’s going to want it. And there’s really no fair way to say, ‘No, this is Mommy’s drink.’ ”
Lopes Filho 女士说她对儿子饮食的担忧让她自己的饮食习惯也产生了微妙变化。“我还是会偷偷地当儿子没看到时偷吃，但我尝试要改变。” “我已经很久没喝汽水或其他糖分高的饮料，都是我儿子的关系。因为我知道如果我喝了，他也会吵着要。跟他说 ‘这是妈妈才能喝的’好像不是很公平。”
Perhaps the biggest caveat to the trend is that it does not appear to extend to the very heaviest Americans. Among the most overweight people, weight and waist circumference have all continued rising in recent years.
恐怕最大的危险是热量摄取的降低趋势好像并没有达到在美国肥胖榜上最顶端的那些人。他们之中，体重和腰围近年来还是不停的上升。
The recent calorie reductions appear to be good news, but they, alone, will not be enough to reverse the obesity epidemic. A paper by Kevin Hall, a researcher at the National Institutes of Health, estimated that for Americans to return to the body weights of 1978 by 2020, an average adult would need to reduce calorie consumption by 220 calories a day. The recent reductions represent just a fraction of that change.
虽然最近的卡路里摄取量降低是好事，但只有这样并不足以反转肥胖疫情。根据国立健康学院 Kevin Hall 发表的文章估计要在2020年使美国人的体重回到1978年时的标准，每个成年人必需每天少吃220卡路里。最近的摄取量降低只算是冰山一角。
“This was like a freight train going downhill without brakes,” Kelly Brownell, dean of the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University, said. “Anything slowing it down is good.”
杜克大学史丹佛公共政策学院院长 Kelly Brownell 说 “这就像没有煞车的下山火车，任何能使它慢下来的东西都好”。