SEOUL, South Korea — Almost everything American intelligence agencies and North Korea-watchers thought they understood two years ago about Kim Jong-un, the North’s young leader, turns out to have been wrong.
韩国首尔——美国情报机构和朝鲜观察家们两年前自以为对年轻的朝鲜领导人金正恩有所了解，事实证明几乎他们所有的设想都不正确。
The briefings given to President Obama after Mr. Kim inherited leadership said it was almost certain he would be kept in check by his more experienced uncle, Jang Song-thaek. Instead, Mr. Kim had his uncle and dozens of others executed.
金正恩继承领导权之后，奥巴马总统收到的报告说，金正恩几乎肯定会受制于其经验丰富的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)。结果，金正日处决了他的姑父和其他几十人。
The early betting was also that Mr. Kim, who was briefly educated in Switzerland, would stress economic reform over expanding the nuclear and missile arsenals that were his father’s and grandfather’s legacy. Instead, the nuclear program has surged forward, and recent missile tests are demonstrating that after years of spectacular failures, the North’s engineers are finally improving their aim. Their next big challenge is proving that an intercontinental missile they have shown only in mock-ups can reach America’s shores.
当初也有人坚信，曾经短暂就读于瑞士的金正日会强调经济改革，而不是注重扩大父亲和祖父传下来的核计划和导弹武库。结果朝鲜的核计划突飞猛进。最近的导弹测试表明，经过多年的惨痛失败，朝鲜工程师们终于提高了精准度。他们的下一个重大挑战，是证明可以把洲际导弹发射到美国本土，迄今他们只展示过这种导弹的实体模型。
As a result, when President Obama lands here on Friday on the second stop of his Asia tour, he will be confronting the question of whether his strategy of “strategic patience” with the North has been overtaken by reality: an unpredictable, though calculating, ruler in Mr. Kim, who has proved to be more ruthless, aggressive and tactically skilled than anyone expected.
因此，当奥巴马总统本周五抵达其亚洲之行的第二站韩国时，将要面临的问题是，他对朝鲜的“战略耐心”策略是否已经落后于现实：事实已经证明，金正恩这个统治者比所有人预想的更无情、更有攻击性，更具谋略，这个统治者虽然反复无常，却精于算计。
“We have failed,” said Evans Revere, who spent his State Department career trying various diplomatic strategies to stop the North. “For two decades our policy has been to keep the North Koreans from developing nuclear weapons. It’s now clear there is no way they will give them up, no matter what sanctions we impose, no matter what we offer. So now what?”
“我们已经失败，”李维亚(Evans Revere)说，他在国务院任职期间曾尝试过用不同的外交策略来阻止朝鲜的核计划。“20年来，我们的政策一直是阻止朝鲜发展核武器。现在情况已经很清楚，无论我们怎样制裁朝鲜，也不管我们开出什么样的条件，他们也不会放弃计划。那现在该怎么办？”
It is an assessment some of Mr. Obama’s aides say they privately share, though for now the administration refuses to negotiate with the North until it first fulfills its oft-violated agreements to freeze its nuclear and missile programs. A recent effort inside the National Security Council to devise a new approach resulted in a flurry of papers and classified strategy sessions — and the conclusion that all the alternatives to the current course were worse.
奥巴马的一些助手说，他们私下里赞同这个看法，虽然目前来说，美国政府拒绝与朝鲜进行谈判，除非它先履行其经常违反的协议，冻结其核计划和导弹计划为止。国家安全委员会(National Security Council)最近试图制定一个新的对朝策略，于是汇集了大量研究报告，开了多次机密战略会议——结论是，所有替代方案还不如现有方案。
“We’re stuck,” one participant in the review said.
“我们现在进退两难，”一位参与审核的人说。
The only place any real change is visible is in the military planning by South Korea and the United States, which maintains a shrunken force of 28,000 troops in the South. For the first time since the armistice in 1953, officials say, the contingency plan for a conflict with the North now treats the nation as a nuclear-capable adversary, despite the administration’s official refusal to acknowledge it as a defacto nuclear state. (North Korea’s apparent preparations for a fourth nuclear test, perhaps in the coming days, appears intended to remove all doubt.)
唯一可见的真正变化与韩国和美国的军事规划有关。美国目前在韩国驻扎了2.8万兵力，比较过去已有所缩水。官员们说，如今，与朝鲜发生冲突的应急计划自1953年停战以来首次把该国作为了一个拥有核能力的对手来看待，尽管美国官方拒绝承认朝鲜事实上是一个有核国家。（朝鲜看似在为第四个核试验做准备，时间也许就在不远的未来，其目的似乎是为了消除所有人的相关怀疑。）
The latest revision for OpPlan 5029, the war plan for the Korean Peninsula, assumes that if a conflict broke out, the North would be capable of delivering a crude nuclear weapon, perhaps by truck or ship. American intelligence officials do not believe the North is yet able to shrink a bomb to a size that could fit on one its Nodong missiles, the key breakthrough it needs.
根据最新修订的朝鲜半岛作战计划《OpPlan5029》，如果发生了冲突，朝鲜有能力使用一件由卡车或船只运载的、粗糙的核武器。美国情报官员不相信朝鲜现在能把核弹尺寸缩小到可以用其“劳动”(Nodong)导弹运载的程度，这是朝鲜需要突破的关键问题。
“He’s put new effort into his nuclear program, missiles, special operations forces and long-range artillery,” said Gen. Curtis M. Scaparrotti, who took over last fall as commander of United States Forces Korea and the United Nations Command here. “They are using more underground facilities. He’s gone to school on how we operate.”
“金正恩在核计划、导弹计划、特种作战部队和远程火炮上开展了新的行动，”柯蒂斯·M·斯卡帕罗蒂(Curtis M. Scaparrotti)将军说，他去年秋天成为了美国驻韩部队以及驻韩联合国军(United Nations Command)的司令。“他们正在更多地使用地下设施。金正恩学习了我们的操作方式。”
Defense officials say they now have less warning time on missile launchings than they did two or three years ago because Mr. Kim has put his resources into mobile launchers that are regularly moved from tunnel to tunnel, making them harder for American satellites to track.
国防部官员说，他们现在对导弹发射的预警时间比两、三年前少，因为金正恩把导弹放在了移动发射装置上，并且经常在隧道之间转换位置，让美国卫星难以追踪。
Although details of the revised plan are classified, officials have talked about elements of it. Since the North shelled a South Korean island and was blamed for sinking South Korean warship four years ago, there are now extensive plans for immediately responding to and then de-escalating small attacks along the border regions.
虽然修订后的计划细节属于机密，但官员提及过它的部分内容。四年前朝鲜向韩国的一些岛屿发射了炮弹，并被指责击沉了一艘韩国军舰，因此在立即做出反应，然后再化解边境地区的小型攻击方面，现在已经有了范围广泛的行动计划。
The North Korean forces remain numerically impressive at a million soldiers, but highly unimpressive when they train. The country is so poor that South Korean military officials say its pilots rarely have the gas to perform practice runs.
朝鲜军队在数量上仍然令人叹为观止，有100万士兵，但训练质量极为平庸。这个国家是如此贫穷，以至于韩国军方官员说，朝鲜的飞行员几乎没有训练所需的燃油。
But in recent interviews here and in Washington, a picture has emerged of Mr. Kim’s new focus on inexpensive weaponry, from missile launchers to crude cyberweapons, that are hard to detect and harder to halt. He has also nurtured his reputation for unpredictability, keeping adversaries on edge. Administration officials acknowledge that they have largely left North Korea on the back burner while they have focused on sanctions, cyberattacks and pressure on Iran, forcing it into negotiations.
但是最近在这里和华盛顿的采访则显示出，金正恩已经把重点重新放在了较为廉价的武器上，包括导弹发射器和粗糙的网络武器，而这类武器很难监测，更难阻止。他还给人留下了难以预测的印象，让对手不敢放松警惕。美国政府的官员承认，在专注于对伊朗进行制裁、网络攻击和施压该国，以迫使它参与谈判的同时，他们基本上把朝鲜问题搁在了一边。
“The administration decided, consciously or implicitly, that Iran was more important and there was a greater prospect of getting something done,” said Robert Einhorn, who ran the sanctions enforcement program against both countries until he left the State Department last year. “While you can squeeze Iran and its oil money, it’s much harder to squeeze North Korea” while China continues its financial support.
罗伯特·艾因霍恩(Robert Einhorn)去年离开国务院，此前管理着针对这两个国家的制裁实施项目。他说，“政府有意识地，或不言明地认定，伊朗问题更重要，取得实效的可能性更大。“你可以挤压伊朗和它的石油收入”，不过，在中国不断为朝鲜提供经济支持的同时，“挤压朝鲜则要难得多”。
White House officials argue that focusing first on Iran made sense. Its program can still be halted before it gains a weapons capability, if that is Tehran’s goal, and the administration believes that North Korea is less likely to set off a regional arms race.
白宫官员认为，把伊朗放在首位很合理。如果德黑兰的目标是获得核武能力，那么在它获得核武器之前，仍然可以中止该项目，美国政府认为，朝鲜引发地区军备竞赛的可能性更小。
“You could argue that the best North Korea strategy now is to get a deal with Iran, and use it as a model for the North about what the world can look like,” one senior administration official said.
一名高级政府官员说，“你可能会说，最好的朝鲜战略是与伊朗达成一项协议，为朝鲜树立榜样，告诉它世界可以是怎样的。”
But others inside the administration fear that policy is too passive — and perhaps a prescription for a much larger North Korean arsenal by the time Mr. Obama leaves office in 2017.
但政府内部的其他人担心，这一政策过于被动，如果这么做，在奥巴马2017年离任时，朝鲜的核武库可能会比现在大得多。
At the heart of the problem are dashed hopes that Mr. Kim would somehow conclude that his grandfather’s and father’s pursuit of a nuclear capability was a Cold War relic, and that he would gradually steer the country back to integration with the world economy. There was modest reason for optimism just months after Mr. Kim came to power in 2011 and struck yet another deal to freeze all his nuclear and missile activity, in return for a resumption of the episodic “Six-Party Talks” with the United States and other nations. That brief effort ended when the North sent a satellite aloft in honor of Mr. Kim’s grandfather. Diplomacy froze for the next two years, with the administration unwilling to make concessions as previous administrations did only to find the North was reneging on its promises.
问题的核心是，对于让金正恩相信其祖父和父亲对核能力的追求是冷战遗产，并逐渐把国家带回到与世界经济融合的轨道中来的希望已经破灭。金正恩2011年掌权，并再次达成了停止所有核武器及导弹活动的协议，以换取与美国等国重启时断时续的六方会谈的机会，但在这几个月之后，我们就失去了乐观的理由。朝鲜短暂的努力很快终止：为了纪念金正恩的祖父，朝鲜发射了一颗卫星。接下来两年，与朝鲜的外交活动暂停了下来，美国政府不愿像之前几任政府那样做出妥协，因为之前的妥协之后，朝鲜都没有信守承诺。
In recent months the Chinese have led an effort to restart diplomatic talks, and the United States has quietly met with the North. But the goal is unclear. To the United States, the purpose of the talks would be denuclearization; Mr. Kim’s government has already declared that the one thing he will not do is give up his small nuclear arsenal, especially after seeing the United States help unseat Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, who surrendered his own nuclear program in 2003.
最近几个月，中国发起了重启外交谈判的行动，美国也悄悄与朝鲜举行了会晤。但目标很不清晰。对于美国来说，谈判的目标是去核；而金正恩的政府已经表示，他不会放弃其小型核武库，在看到美国帮助推翻了利比亚的穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Muammar el-Qaddafi)政权之后更是如此。卡扎菲2003年放弃了自己的核计划。
Joel Wit, a former American government strategist for dealing with North Korea who edits 38 North, a website that closely follows development in the murky, often murderous politics of the Kim government, said Mr. Kim learned of that accident.
美国政府的前朝鲜问题策略师乔尔·威特(Joel Wit)说，金正恩知道那件事。威特目前在38 North网站担任主编，这个网站密切关注着甚少为外人了解，但颇为残酷的朝鲜政局。
“It’s not an accident he’s positioning himself to make sure the inventory of nuclear material in the hands of the North is about to take off,” he said.
他说，“金正恩的所作所为是确保朝鲜的核材料储备越来越多，这不是偶然的。”
He was referring to the North’s effort to expand the production of highly enriched uranium, which would give Mr. Kim a steadier, more plentiful supply of nuclear fuel than its past reliance on plutonium.
他指的是朝鲜扩大高浓缩铀生产的计划。与过去只依赖钚相比，这会让金正恩拥有更为稳定、更充足的核燃料供应。
“I’m now convinced North Korea would prefer to collapse with nuclear weapons that try to survive without nuclear weapons,” Chun Yung-woo, who recently served as the South’s national security advisor, said this week. Yet the strategy Washington is pursuing is based on the opposite assumption.
“我现在确信，朝鲜宁可在拥有核武器的情况下灭亡，也不愿意在没有核武器的情况下存活，”不久前曾担任韩国国家安全顾问的千英宇(Chun Yung-woo)本周说。然而华盛顿目前遵循的策略则基于完全相反的假设。