After news of her death was confirmed, Ms. Mueller’s family released a copy of an unpublished letter that she wrote to her loved ones in the spring of 2014, while held hostage by Islamic State militants.
在米勒的死讯得到证实后，米勒的家人公布了一封2014年春她被伊斯兰国武装分子挟持期间写给至亲的信。
The following is the full text of her letter.
以下是这封信的全部内容。
Everyone, If you are receiving this letter it means I am still detained but my cell mates (starting from 11/2/2014) have been released. I have asked them to contact you + send you this letter. It’s hard to know what to say. Please know that I am in a safe location, completely unharmed + healthy (put on weight in fact); I have been treated w/ the utmost respect + kindness. I wanted to write you all a well thought out letter (but I didn’t know if my cell mates would be leaving in the coming days or the coming months restricting my time but primarily) I could only but write the letter a paragraph at a time, just the thought of you all sends me into a fit of tears. If you could say I have “suffered” at all throughout this whole experience it is only in knowing how much suffering I have put you all through; I will never ask you to forgive me as I do not deserve forgiveness. I remember mom always telling me that all in all in the end the only one you really have is God. I have come to a place in experience where, in every sense of the word, I have surrendered myself to our creator b/c literally there was no else…. + by God + by your prayers I have felt tenderly cradled in freefall. I have been shown in darkness, light + have learned that even in prison, one can be free. I am grateful. I have come to see that there is good in every situation, sometimes we just have to look for it. I pray each each day that if nothing else, you have felt a certain closeness + surrender to God as well + have formed a bond of love + support amongst one another… I miss you all as if it has been a decade of forced separation. I have had many a long hour to think, to think of all the things I will do w/ Lex, our first family camping trip, the first meeting @ the airport. I have had many hours to think how only in your absence have I finally @ 25 years old come to realize your place in my life. The gift that is each one of you + the person I could + could not be if you were not a part of my life, my family, my support. I DO NOT want the negotiations for my release to be your duty, if there is any other option take it, even if it takes more time. This should never have become your burden. I have asked these women to support you; please seek their advice. If you have not done so already, [REDACTED] can contact [REDACTED] who may have a certain level of experience with these people. None of us could have known it would be this long but know I am also fighting from my side in the ways I am able + I have a lot of fight left inside of me. I am not breaking down + I will not give in no matter how long it takes. I wrote a song some months ago that says, “The part of me that pains the most also gets me out of bed, w/out your hope there would be nothing left…” aka—The thought of your pain is the source of my own, simultaneously the hope of our reunion is the source of my strength. Please be patient, give your pain to God. I know you would want me to remain strong. That is exactly what I am doing. Do not fear for me, continue to pray as will I + by God’s will we will be together soon. All my everything, Kayla
大家好，如果你收到了这封信，就意味着我仍被关押，但我的狱友（自2014年2月11日开始）已被释放。我请求她们与你们联络并交付这封信。我不知道该说什么。但我想让大家知道，我在一个安全的地方，毫发未伤并且非常健康（实际上体重增加了）；我还受到了极大的尊重和善待。我想给你们写一封经过深思熟虑的信（但是由于我不清楚狱友会在几天后还是几个月之后离开，我的思考时间有限，不过我的初衷是这样的）。我每次都只能写一段，因为单是想起你们就会让我哭泣一阵。如果你们说，我在这段时间里真的“遭受”了什么痛苦，对我来说痛苦就是想到我让你们在这段日子里承受了多少。我永远不会请求你们的原谅，因为我不值得被原谅。我记得妈妈总是告诉我，无论如何，人到最后唯一真正拥有的是上帝。在实际经历中，我已抵达一种境界，无论“顺从”这个词有多少含义，我将自己顺从于我们的造物者，因为除了他以外，真的没有什么其他了。经由上帝，经由你们的祈祷，我感到自己被温柔地置于摇篮之中，自由地落下。我看到了黑暗和光明，体悟到即便在囚牢之中，一个人也可以拥有自由。我很感激。我已经懂得，任何一种情况都有好的一面，有时我们只是需要去寻找它。在日日祈祷之中，我希望无论如何，你们能感受到对上帝的某种亲近和顺从，并建立一种爱的纽带，彼此之间相互扶持……我想念你们每一个人，这种活生生的分离像已持续十年。曾有许多时候，我一人长时间思考，设想所有我和雷克斯以后要做的事，我们的第一次家庭露营，在机场的第一次见面。我长久地思考，你不在身边的事实是如何终于让我在25岁时意识到，你在我生命中的位置。你们每一个人都是我的礼物，出现在我的生命、家庭里，给予我支持，从而让我成为我自己。我实在不想把解救我的谈判变成你们的责任。如果有任何其他的办法，请采纳吧，即便花费更多的时间。这永远不应该变成你们的负担。我已请求我的狱友们给予你们支持；请问问她们的建议。你们可以联系那些有过类似经历的人，如果你们尚未这样做的话。没有人预料到这件事竟持续如此之久，但我会从我这边做一切努力。在我的心里，仍有许多抗争。我没有崩溃，而且无论这将持续多久，我也不会屈服。几个月前我写了一首歌：“我身体里最痛的部分将我从睡梦中唤醒，没有你们的希望，就什么都没有”，就是说——我痛苦的来源是想到你们的痛苦，而重聚的希望带给我力量。保持耐心，把痛苦交给上帝。我知道你们会希望我坚强。这正是我目前在做的。不要为我感到害怕，像我一样继续祈祷，根据上帝的旨意，我们很快就会在一起的。献上我所有的爱，凯拉