Prince, the songwriter, singer, producer, one-man studio band and consummate showman, died Thursday at his residence, Paisley Park, in Chanhassen, Minn., according to a statement from his publicist, Yvette Noel-Schure. He was 57.
据其公关人员伊维特·尼尔-许尔(Yvette Noel-Schure)发表的声明，唱作人、制作人，单人录音室乐队与技艺精湛的表演者“王子”(Prince)周四于明尼苏达州昌哈森佩斯利园家中去世，时年57岁。
No cause of death has been given. In a statement, the Carver County sheriff, Jim Olson, said that deputies responded to an emergency call at 9:43 a.m.: “When deputies and medical personnel arrived, they found an unresponsive adult male in the elevator. First responders attempted to provide lifesaving CPR, but were unable to revive the victim. He was pronounced deceased at 10:07 a.m.” The sheriff’s office said it would continue to investigate his death.
他的死因目前尚未给出。在一份声明中，卡沃郡警长吉姆·奥尔森(Jim Olson)说，上午9:43，警员们接到紧急求助电话：“警官和医疗团队赶到后，在电梯中发现一名失去知觉的成年男性。第一批赶到者试图给他做挽救生命的心肺复苏术，但已经无法挽回他的生命。他于上午10:07正式宣告死亡。”警长说，还将就他的死因进一步展开调查。
Last week, responding to news reports that Prince’s plane had made an emergency landing because of a health scare, Ms. Noel-Schure said Prince was “fighting the flu.”
上星期，有报道说“王子”的飞机因为他的健康问题而迫降，尼尔-许尔女士当时回应说，“王子”“正在和流感做斗争。”
Prince, born Prince Rogers Nelson on June 7, 1958, was a man bursting with music — a wildly prolific songwriter, a virtuoso on guitars, keyboards and drums and a master architect of funk, rock, R&B and pop, even as his music defied genres. In a career that lasted from the late 1970s until an arena tour this year, he was acclaimed as a sex symbol, a musical prodigy and an artist who shaped his career his way, often battling with accepted music-business practices.
“王子”于1958年6月7日出生，原名普林斯·罗杰斯·尼尔森(Prince Rogers Nelson)，他是一个全身燃烧着音乐的人，极为高产的创作者，精通吉他、键盘和鼓，尽管他的音乐无视任何类型，他亦堪称放克、摇滚、R&B与流行乐的大师。他的音乐生涯从20世纪70年代末延续至今年的一场大型场馆巡演，在这个过程中，他被誉为性感符号、音乐神童与自行其是的艺术家，经常挑战公认的音乐行业传统做法。
“When I first started out in the music industry, I was most concerned with freedom. Freedom to produce, freedom to play all the instruments on my records, freedom to say anything I wanted to,” he said when he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2004. In a tribute to George Harrison that night, Prince went on to play a guitar solo in “While My Guitar Gently Weeps” that left the room floored.
“当我在音乐工业内刚刚起步的时候，我最关心的就是自由。制作的自由，在我的唱片里演奏所有乐器的自由，说出任何我想说的话的自由，”2004年，他在入主摇滚名人堂的时候说道。当晚，在向乔治·哈里森(George Harrison)致敬的环节，“王子”弹了一段《当我的吉他轻声哭泣》(While My Guitar Gently Weeps)中的吉他独奏，令全场为之沸腾。
Prince’s Top 10 hits included “Little Red Corvette,” “When Doves Cry,” “Let’s Go Crazy,” “Kiss,” and “The Most Beautiful Girl in the World”; albums like “Dirty Mind,” “1999” and “Sign O’ the Times” were full-length statements. His songs also became hits for others, among them “Nothing Compares 2 U” for Sinead O’Connor and “I Feel for You” for Chaka Khan. With the 1984 film and album “Purple Rain,” Prince told a fictionalized version of his own story: biracial, gifted, spectacularly ambitious. Its music won him an Academy Award and the album sold more than 13 million copies in the United States alone.
“王子”的前十金曲包括《小红科维特》(Little Red Corvette)、《当鸽子哭泣时》(When Doves Cry)、《发疯吧》(Let’s Go Crazy)、《吻》(Kiss)和《世界上最美的女孩》(The Most Beautiful Girl in the World)；他的专辑《肮脏念头》(Dirty Mind)、《1999》和《永远的O’符号》(Sign O’ the Times)是一份完整的宣言。他创作的一些歌曲也成了其他人的金曲，比如西尼德·奥康纳(Sinead O’Connor)唱红的《你无与伦比》(Nothing Compares 2 U)和查卡·汉( Chaka Khan)唱红的《我对你有感觉》(I Feel for You)。在1984年的电影和专辑《紫雨》(Purple Rain)中，“王子”以虚构的形式讲述了一个关于自己的故事：有白人与黑人血统、天赋异禀，有着极大的抱负。《紫雨》为他赢得了奥斯卡奖，专辑仅在美国就售出了1300万张。
In a statement, President Obama said, “Few artists have influenced the sound and trajectory of popular music more distinctly, or touched quite so many people with their talent. As one of the most gifted and prolific musicians of our time, Prince did it all. Funk. R&B. Rock and roll. He was a virtuoso instrumentalist, a brilliant bandleader, and an electrifying performer. ‘A strong spirit transcends rules,’ Prince once said — and nobody’s spirit was stronger, bolder, or more creative.”
在一份声明中，奥巴马总统说：“很少有艺术家能够深刻地影响流行音乐的声音与发展轨迹，并以自己的天赋打动那么多的人。作为我们时代最有才华、最高产的音乐家，‘王子’二者都做到了。放克、R&B与摇滚。他还是演奏乐器的大师，杰出的乐队领袖与激动人心的表演者。‘王子’曾说自己是‘逾越一切规则的强大灵魂’，他的精神是如此强大、勇敢，富于创造性，无人能够与他相比。”
Prince recorded the great majority of his music entirely on his own, playing every instrument and singing every vocal line. Many of his albums were simply credited, “Produced, arranged, composed and performed by Prince.” Then, performing those songs onstage, he worked as a bandleader in the polished, athletic, ecstatic tradition of James Brown, at once spontaneous and utterly precise, riveting enough to open a Grammy Awards telecast and play the Super Bowl halftime show. Often, Prince would follow a full-tilt arena concert with a late-night club show, pouring out even more music.
“王子”的大部分音乐都是完全由他自己录制，演奏所有乐器，唱所有人声音轨。他的很多专辑都简单地署名为：“制作、配器、词曲、表演：‘王子’”。登台演出时，他就化身为詹姆斯·布朗(James Brown)式的乐队领队：风度优雅、动作敏捷、热情洋溢；把音乐中的自发性与精确性融为一体，极为精彩，比如他在格莱美颁奖礼电视直播中的开场演出与在超级碗中场秀上的表演。“王子”还常常在大型场馆的演唱会之后接上一场深夜俱乐部演出，献上更多音乐。
In Prince’s biggest hits, he sang passionately, affectionately and playfully about sex and seduction. With deep bedroom eyes and a sly, knowing smile, he was one of pop’s ultimate flirts: a sex symbol devoted to romance and pleasure, not power or machismo. Elsewhere in his catalog were songs that addressed social issues and delved into mysticism and science fiction. He made himself a unifier of dualities — racial, sexual, musical, cultural — teasing at them in songs like “Controversy” and transcending them in his career.
在“王子”那些最出名的金曲中，他以热烈、深情与戏谑的方式歌唱性爱与诱惑。他眼窝深陷，总是带着一丝狡黠，了然的微笑，堪称流行世界里的终极诱惑者之一：一个献身浪漫与欢娱的性感符号，对权力或男子气概不屑一顾。他的其他歌曲也歌唱社会问题，抑或涉猎神秘主义和科幻小说。他把自己塑造为二元对立的统一体——无论是种族、性、音乐抑或文化——并在《辩论》(Controversy)等歌曲里揶揄这些二元对立，终其事业生涯，他一直都在超越它们。
He had plenty of eccentricities: his fondness for the color purple, using “U” for “you” and a drawn eye for “I” long before textspeak, his vigilant policing of his music online, his penchant for releasing huge troves of music at once, his intensely private persona. Yet for musicians and listeners of multiple generations, he was admired well-nigh universally.
他有不少怪癖：他喜欢紫色；在有短信的年代之前，就喜欢用“U”来代替“you”，画一个眼睛代表“I”； 他对自己的网络音乐版权极为谨慎；他喜欢一下子发布海量的音乐；他极度注重隐私。即便如此，几乎在世界各地，他都受到众多乐手、听众与几代人的深深崇拜。
Prince’s music had an immediate and lasting influence: among songwriters concocting come-ons, among producers working on dance grooves, among studio experimenters and stage performers. He sang as a soul belter, a rocker, a bluesy ballad singer and a falsetto crooner. His most immediately recognizable (and widely imitated) instrumental style was a particular kind of pinpoint, staccato funk, defined as much by keyboards as by the rhythm section. But that was just one among the many styles he would draw on and blend, from hard rock to psychedelia to electronic music. His music was a cornucopia of ideas: triumphantly, brilliantly kaleidoscopic.
无论对于编写的口水歌的词曲作者、制作舞曲律动的制作人、录音室内的实验者与舞台上的表演者们来说，“王子”音乐的影响力都来得直接而持久。他能像灵魂歌手、摇滚歌手、布鲁斯歌谣歌手与假声吟唱者一样唱歌。他最有辨识度（也是最被广泛模仿）的乐器演奏风格便是那种精准的断奏放克乐，不仅是节奏组，键盘也具有这个特点。但这仅仅是他的特色之一，他采纳并融合的风格从硬摇滚到迷幻乐，乃至电子乐。他的音乐如同充满创意的丰饶之角，亦如绚烂多彩的万花筒。