For four decades, Chicagoans have been able to one-up New Yorkers on at least one measure: The City of the Big Shoulders had the tallest building in the United States.
至少以一个标准来衡量，芝加哥人在过去40年里一直胜过纽约人一筹：大肩膀城(The City of the Big Shoulders)曾经拥有美国最高的建筑。
But as of Tuesday, that crown is moving east. One World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan has officially been ruled to be taller than the Willis Tower, in Chicago. That judgment came from the primary arbiter of structural stature, the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat.
但从周二开始，这顶桂冠就要飘到东边去了。经官方认定，曼哈顿下城的世贸中心1号楼(One World Trade Center)在高度上超越了芝加哥的威利斯大厦(Willis Tower)。这一裁决出自建筑物高度的主要仲裁机构：高层建筑与城市住宅委员会(Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat)。
New York’s tallest building was deemed taller even though it has six fewer floors and its roof is more than 100 feet lower than the top side of the Willis Tower. Formerly known as the Sears Tower, the Chicago building captured the title in the 1970s from the twin towers.
威利斯大厦以前叫做西尔斯大厦(Sears Tower)，它在上世纪70年代击败世贸双塔，夺取了美国第一高楼的头衔。与威利斯大厦相比，纽约这栋新加冕的全美最高建筑在楼层数上少了六层，楼顶也矮了100多英尺（约合30多米），但它还是被认为更高一些。
How can that be?
这又怎么可能呢？
It all depends on what the definition of an antenna is.
一切都取决于怎么定义天线。
Both buildings have long masts poking skyward from their roofs. But those on the 1,451-foot Willis Tower are considered antennas, which the council does not count in calculating the height of a building.
两栋建筑的楼顶上都竖着直指云霄的长杆。不过，伫立在1451英尺高的威利斯大厦顶部的那些长杆被视为天线，当高层建筑与城市住宅委员会计算建筑物的高度时，天线是不作数的。
The 408-foot long mast on 1 World Trade Center, on the other hand, is more than just a means of improving radio signals, its developers argued. They called it a spire and insisted it was a critical and permanent element of the architects’ overall design.
另一方面，世贸中心一号楼的开发者商则宣称，伫立在这栋建筑顶部的408英尺高的长杆，不仅仅是改善无线电信号接收效果的工具。他们管它叫尖顶，并且坚称，它在设计师们的整体设计中是一个不可或缺的永久存在的元素。
When 25 members of the council’s height committee met in Chicago on Friday, they heard the spire argument from the chief architect, David Childs of the firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, and representatives of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which developed the trade center.
高层建筑与城市住宅委员会的25位成员周五在芝加哥碰头时，听取了世贸中心1号楼主设计师、SOM建筑设计事务所(Skidmore, Owings & Merrill)的大卫·蔡尔兹(David Childs)以及世贸中心开发商纽约与新泽西港口事务管理局(Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)的代表关于尖顶的论述。
The New York contingent said the spire had always been part of the plan to achieve the symbolic height of 1,776 feet.
纽约代表团表示，尖顶一直都在计划之中，为的是达到具有象征意义的1776英尺的高度。
The committee members unanimously agreed that the spire should be counted, said Timothy Johnson, the council’s chairman and a partner in NBBJ, a design firm.
高层建筑与城市住宅委员会主席、设计公司NBBJ的合伙人蒂莫西·约翰逊(Timothy Johnson)表示，该委员会成员一致同意，尖顶的高度应该被计算在内。
“The building is in fact 1,776 feet,” Mr. Johnson said. “We don’t believe the spire will ever be removed.”
“这栋建筑的实际高度是1776英尺，”约翰逊说，“我们认为尖顶在任何时候都不会被拆除。”
The Port Authority issued a joint statement with the architects and the Durst Organization, which is managing the building and recruiting tenants. “This iconic building represents the resilience of America, and today’s decision recognizes 1 World Trade Center’s rightful place in history,” the statement said.
纽约与新泽西港口事务管理局和负责该建筑的物业与招租事宜的邓斯特房地产集团(Durst Organization)共同发布了一份联合声明。声明称：“这栋标志性的建筑象征着美国的百折不挠，今天的结论确认了世贸中心1号楼在历史上应有的地位。”
Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago was unmoved.
芝加哥市长拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)却不以为然。
“If it looks like an antenna, acts like an antenna, then it is an antenna,” Mr. Emanuel said after the decision was announced. “At the Willis Tower, you have a panoramic view that is unmatched. You can’t get a view like that from an antenna.”
“如果它看上去像天线，起到的作用也和天线差不多，那它就是一根天线，”高层建筑与城市住宅委员会宣布上述结论后，伊曼纽尔表示。“站上威利斯大厦，你可以拥有无与伦比的开阔视野。但你无法站在一根天线上获得这样的视野。”
Mr. Emanuel’s tone reflects the pride Chicagoans take in their city’s architecture and its status as the home of the country’s first “skyscraper,” the 10-story Home Insurance Building.
伊曼纽尔的语气反映出了芝加哥人的自豪感，自己城市里的建筑以及城市本身的地位——美国第一座摩天楼，10层高的家庭保险大楼(Home Insurance Building)就出自这里——都让他们引以为傲。
Carol Willis, an architectural historian and founder of the Skyscraper Museum in Manhattan, said there were various ways to measure the size of a building beyond its height. “In the end,” Ms. Willis said, “buildings are about more than one dimension. It’s about height, floor plans, office space, location and rent.”
建筑历史学家、位于曼哈顿的摩天大楼博物馆(Skyscraper Museum)的创始人卡罗尔·威利斯(Carol Willis)表示，除了高度，还有各种各样的衡量建筑物规模的标准。“最终，”威利斯说，“建筑物是关乎多个维度的。它关乎高度、平面布局、办公空间、位置和租金。”
She pointed out that the Empire State Building was about 200 feet taller than another former record-holder, the Chrysler Building, and also had twice as much office space as the Chrysler Building and the Bank of Manhattan Building at 40 Wall Street combined.
她指出，帝国大厦(Empire State Building)比另一个前纪录保持者克莱斯勒大厦(he Chrysler Building)高出约200英尺，至于其公共空间，则是克莱斯勒大厦与位于华尔街40号的曼哈顿银行大厦(Bank of Manhattan Building)办公空间之和的二倍。
Walter Chrysler came up with a spire of his own to gain the edge in a similar rivalry in the late 1920s. To beat the 927-foot height of 40 Wall Street, he secretly had a 125-foot spire assembled inside the crown of the Chrysler Building, raising it to 1,046 feet.
上世纪20年代末沃尔特·克莱斯勒(Walter Chrysler)想出了加盖尖顶的办法，以便在一场类似的竞争中获胜。为了超越927英尺高的华尔街40号大厦(40 Wall Street)，他在克莱斯勒大厦的穹顶之内秘密安装了一个125英尺高的尖顶，从而让大厦的高度增加到了1046英尺。
The architects for 40 Wall Street countered that their building had the highest usable floor.
华尔街40号大厦的设计师则反驳称，他们的建筑拥有最高的实用楼面。
Now Chicagoans can say the same about the Willis Tower.
现在，芝加哥人也可以这样说威利斯大厦。