WASHINGTON — With the 2014 political landscape becoming more defined, it is increasingly likely that the midterm elections in November will maintain divided government in the capital for the final two years of President Obama’s second term, with the chief unknown being exactly how divided it will be.
华盛顿——2014年的美国政治版图正变得更加清晰，11月份中期选举之后，政府在奥巴马总统第二任期的最后两年继续呈分裂态势的可能性越来越大，只不过究竟会有多分裂，仍是个未知数。
A review of competitive congressional contests suggests that, at the moment, Republicans will hold on to the House, though Democrats could defy midterm history and gain a few seats. Senate Democrats, at the same time, are defending unfavorable terrain and will almost certainly see their majority narrowed. They are at risk of losing it altogether, an outcome that would leave Capitol Hill entirely in Republican control for the conclusion of Mr. Obama’s presidency.
通过分析竞争激烈的国会选战可以看出，共和党人将继续执掌众议院，虽然民主党人可能会改写中期选举的历史，再获得几个席位。与此同时，参议院的民主党人正在保护其处境不利的地盘，其多数优势几乎毫无疑问会缩小。他们甚至可能彻底失去多数席位，使国会完全落入共和党的控制，直到奥巴马任期结束。
“Democrats are going to lose seats, there is no question about that,” said Jennifer Duffy, who follows Senate races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.
无党派网站“库克政治报告”(Cook Political Report)跟踪报道参议院竞选的珍妮弗·达菲(Jennifer Duffy)说，“民主党会失去席位，这一点毫无疑问。”
Hoping to offset losses and make it more difficult for Republicans to net the six seats that would hand them the majority, Senate Democrats are taking aim at Republican-held seats in Georgia, an open contest, and Kentucky, where they hope to defeat Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader and 30-year Senate veteran who has seen his popularity dip back home.
为了减少损失，让共和党不那么容易再添六个席位从而成为多数党，参议院的民主党人正在把目标对准共和党在乔治亚州和肯塔基州的席位。乔治亚州将迎来一场争夺空缺的选战。在肯塔基州，他们打败了参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)。这位共和党领袖已经担任参议员30年，但在家乡的支持率已经下降。
They are also hoping that Republicans, who are engaged in a continuing internal struggle over ideology, will end a series of bitter primaries by nominating far-right candidates who could be defeated in general elections even in Republican-leaning states, a phenomenon that cost Republicans in 2010 and 2012. Both parties will have to defend against an electorate sour on Washington’s dysfunction as neither seems to be benefiting much from an improving economy.
他们还希望，陷入长期内部意识形态之争的共和党人，将在一系列残酷的初选后提名极右翼候选人，而这些候选人在哪怕是亲共和党的州里都有可能被打败。正是这种现象让共和党在2010年和2012年吃了亏。两党似乎都不会从经济的不断改善中得益多少，因此必须面对一批对政府失灵十分不满的选民。
House and Senate Republicans are coalescing around the new health care law as their chief issue and plan to frame problems with the implementation of the law — and the individual stories of those adversely affected — to paint Mr. Obama and the Democrats as incompetent administrators of an overreaching expansion of government.
众议院和参议院的共和党人都在把新的医改法案作为主要议题，并打算把问题框定在法案的实施层面——比如受到负面影响的个人遭遇——把奥巴马和民主党人描绘成导致政府职能过度扩张的无能的管理者。
“Obamacare, Obamacare, Obamacare,” said Andrea Bozek, communications director for the National Republican Congressional Committee. “It is going to be an issue in every single congressional race.”
共和党国会议员全国委员会(National Republican Congressional Committee)的通讯联络主任安德烈亚·博策克(Andrea Bozek)说，“奥巴马医改、奥巴马医改、奥巴马医改，它将成为所有国会选举中的问题。”
The election is still 10 months away, and a major misstep by either party or an unexpected outside event could quickly shift the narrative of a campaign season that is likely to set records for midterm spending by outside groups seeking to influence the outcome without disclosing the sources behind their cash.
距离选举还有10个月，两党出现任何重大失误，或是发生意料之外的外部事件，都会迅速改变竞选季的格局。寻求影响选举结果而不披露资金来源的外部组织，很可能使这次中期选举的支出创下最高纪录。
But in the end, many experts agree, the distribution of power in Washington could be guided by the popularity of the president, whose approval rating now stands at 46 percent, according to the latest CBS News poll. The number is being watched closely by both parties, and the assumption is that if it is in the low 40s or worse around election time, Republicans would benefit significantly.
但许多专家都认为，华盛顿的权力分配归根结底可能受到总统支持率的影响，根据CBS新闻频道(CBS News)的最新民调，奥巴马目前的支持率为46%。两党都在密切关注这个数字，他们认为，如果临近选举时下降到40%出头，或者低于40%，共和党人将大大受益。
“All signs are that we are heading for a traditional midterm election that is more about the president than the individual Republican candidates,” said Stuart Rothenberg, the editor of the Rothenberg Political Report.
《罗森博格政治报告》(Rothenberg Political Report)的主编斯图尔特·罗森博格(Stuart Rothenberg)说，“所有的迹象都显示，我们将迎来一次传统的中期选举，其结果更加取决于总统，而不是单个的共和党候选人。”
With Republicans holding the edge in the competitive open seats, the battle for control will most likely come down to the ability of Democratic senators like Mark Begich of Alaska, Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Mary L. Landrieu of Louisiana and Kay Hagan of North Carolina to wage successful re-election campaigns in states where the president is unpopular.
由于共和党人在竞争激烈的空缺上有一定的优势，参议院控制权之争将很可能归结到阿拉斯加州的马克·贝吉奇(Mark Begich)、阿肯色州的马克·普赖尔(Mark Pryor)、路易斯安那州的玛丽·L·兰德里欧(Mary L. Landrieu)及北卡罗来纳州的凯·黑根(Kay Hagan)等民主党议员身上，看他们能否在奥巴马总统不受欢迎的州里开展成功的连任竞选。
Hoping to stoke enthusiasm, Democrats say they also intend to make the case about the dangers of a Republican-led Congress.
期望鼓舞士气的民主党人则称，他们还准备拿共和党领导国会将有多么危险来做文章。
“The Democratic Senate is all that stands in the way of Tea Party control of Congress, so our supporters understand what’s at stake,” said Guy Cecil, the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. 
“民主党领导的参议院是茶党接管国会的唯一障碍，因此我们的支持者明白其中的利害关系，”民主党参议院竞选委员会(Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee)执行主管盖伊·塞西尔(Guy Cecil)说。
In the House, Democrats would have to pick up 17 seats to regain the majority they lost in the Tea Party wave of 2010, though not even party optimists see that as realistic. Mr. Rothenberg said his best estimate was that either party is capable of winning a handful of additional seats. That prospect reflects the reality that most House districts are now considered safe for incumbents, forcing the parties to concentrate on the fairly limited number of districts where they have a partisan advantage.
在众议院，民主党需要多拿17个席位才能重获在2010年的茶党风潮中失去的多数党地位。不过，就连党内的乐观派都认为这不现实。罗森博格表示，他估算的最大可能性是，两党都没有能力再赢得五席。这种前景反映了一个事实，即大多数的国会选区现在被认为是现任众议员的囊中之物，从而迫使两党把精力集中到相当有限的几个有党派优势的选区中。
For instance, Republicans are focused on seven districts in Arizona, Georgia, Minnesota, North Carolina, Utah and West Virginia now represented by Democrats. However, voters in those districts favored the last three Republican presidential candidates. Republicans are also looking at two other districts, in Florida and Texas, that were carried by Mitt Romney. Two of those Democratic representatives, Mike McIntyre of North Carolina and Jim Matheson of Utah, have announced that they are not running, and Republicans are strongly favored to replace them.
比如，共和党人的焦点是如今被民主党占据的七个众议院席位，其选区分别位于亚利桑那州、乔治亚州、明尼苏达州、北卡罗来纳州、犹他州和西弗吉尼亚州。这些选区的选民在之前的三次总统大选中青睐的是共和党候选人。民主党人还在考虑米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)曾经拿下的位于佛罗里达州和德克萨斯州的两个选区。以上选区中，有两名民主党众议员，即来自北卡罗来纳州的迈克·麦金太尔(Mike McIntyre)和犹他州的吉姆·马西森(Jim Matheson)，已宣布不再寻求连任。外界极为看好共和党人取而代之。
But Democrats believe they can beat back the challenge to other five incumbents in red districts and say they have real opportunities in seats being vacated by Republicans in Arkansas, Iowa, Montana, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Virginia and against incumbents in California, Colorado, Illinois and New York, among others. Republicans acknowledge that they will be defending vacancies in the expensive media markets of Philadelphia and Washington.
然而，民主党人认为，他们能够在以上支持共和党的选区中击退对其余五名现任议员的挑战，并且表示在多个席位中拥有一定的机会，比如在阿肯色州、艾奥瓦州、蒙大拿州、新泽西州、宾夕法尼亚州和弗吉尼亚州争取由共和党人空出的位子，并且在加利福尼亚州、科罗拉多州、伊利诺伊州和纽约州挑战寻求连任的共和党议员，诸如此类。共和党人承认，他们还需在费城和华盛顿的媒体烧钱战中保住己方空出的席位。
For a moment in October when Republicans were cratering in public approval because of the government shutdown, Democrats entertained real thoughts of winning back the majority. But the flawed implementation of the health care law has tempered those expectations. Democrats say that at minimum, they expect to chip away at the Republican majority to get them in position for a run at control in 2016.
去年10月，当共和党人因为政府停摆而不断丧失公众支持的时候，民主党人曾经一度看到了赢回众议院多数的希望。可是，医保法案出师不利，让他们开始打消这个念头。民主党人如今表示，他们至少希望能够蚕食共和党的优势，从而为2016年重夺控制权铺路。
“While the rollout of Obamacare created a more challenging environment, House Republicans still have not recovered from the toxic environment of the shutdown,” said Representative Steve Israel, the New York Democrat who heads up the party’s House campaign committee. “They are still at historically low levels of job approval, and they are still extremely unpopular.” Democrats, though, are held in similarly low regard.
“尽管奥巴马医改的推出给我们造成了一种更具挑战性的环境，但众议院的共和党人仍然没有从政府停摆的有害环境中走出来，”民主党众议院竞选委员会主席、来自纽约州的史蒂夫·伊斯雷尔(Steve Israel)说。“他们的工作认可率还在历史低位徘徊，他们还是极其不受欢迎。”不过，民主党人受到的评价也同样不高。