WASHINGTON — In a long-sought victory for the gay rights movement, the Supreme Court ruled by a 5-4 vote Friday that the Constitution guarantees a right to same-sex marriage.
华盛顿——周五，美国最高法院以5比4的投票结果裁定，联邦宪法保护同性结婚的权利，从而让同性恋权益运动获得了寻求已久的胜利。
“No longer may this liberty be denied,” Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, wrote for the majority in the historic decision. “No union is more profound than marriage, for it embodies the highest ideals of love, fidelity, devotion, sacrifice and family. In forming a marital union, two people become something greater than once they were.”
“这种自由不会再被剥夺，”在这份具有历史意义的判决意见书中，大法官安东尼·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)代表多数意见写道。“没有哪种结合比婚姻更为深刻，因为婚姻象征着爱情、忠贞、奉献和家庭的最高理想。两个人通过婚姻的方式结合，成为更好的人。”
The decision, which was the culmination of decades of litigation and activism, set off jubilation and tearful embraces across the country, the first same-sex marriages in several states, and signs of resistance — or at least stalling — in others. It came against the backdrop of fast-moving changes in public opinion, with polls indicating that most Americans now approve of the unions.
这项裁决是数十年的诉讼和行动主义的终点，激起了全国各地的人们欢呼庆祝，含泪拥抱。它使得几个州首次出现了同性婚姻，但也有另外几个州表现出抵制——或者至少是拖延——许可的迹象。最高法院做出这一裁决的背景是公众舆论的快速演化。民意调查显示，大部分美国民众如今首肯同性结合。
The court's four more liberal justices joined Kennedy's majority opinion. Each member of the court's conservative wing filed a separate dissent, in tones ranging from resigned dismay to bitter scorn.
倾向自由派的四名最高法院大法官与肯尼迪立场一致，从而形成了多数意见。每一名保守派大法官均提出了各自的异议意见。他们语气各异，有的透露出无可奈何的不满，有的则是冷嘲热讽。
In dissent, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said the Constitution had nothing to say on the subject of same-sex marriage.
首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)在异议意见中表示，宪法根本不涉及同性婚姻这个议题。
“If you are among the many Americans — of whatever sexual orientation — who favor expanding same-sex marriage, by all means celebrate today's decision,” Roberts wrote. “Celebrate the achievement of a desired goal. Celebrate the opportunity for a new expression of commitment to a partner. Celebrate the availability of new benefits. But do not celebrate the Constitution. It had nothing to do with it.”
“不管你本人的性取向如何，如果你与许多人一样，赞成扩大同性婚姻的适用范围，那么请尽情庆祝今天的判决，”罗伯茨写道。“庆祝你们终于达成了一个渴望已久的目标。庆祝你们获得了一种新的表达忠诚的方式。庆祝你们可以获得新的福利。但是，请不要庆祝宪法的成功。此判决与宪法无关。”
In a second dissent, Justice Antonin Scalia mocked the soaring language of Kennedy, who has become the nation's most important judicial champion of gay rights.
在另一份异议意见中，大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)对肯尼迪华丽的辞藻予以了嘲弄。在捍卫同性恋权益议题上，肯尼迪已成为美国司法系统中最举足轻重的人物。
“The opinion is couched in a style that is as pretentious as its content is egotistic,” Scalia wrote of his colleague's work. “Of course the opinion's showy profundities are often profoundly incoherent.”
“多数意见内容自大，表达方式也同样矫饰，”斯卡利亚这样评价同僚撰写的判词。“当然，其中的故作深刻往往极其不合逻辑。”
In remarks, President Barack Obama welcomed the decision, saying it “affirms what millions of Americans already believe in their hearts.”
美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马发表讲话对这项裁决表示欢迎，称其“肯定了成百上千万美国民众深信不疑的信念。”
“Today,” he said, “we can say, in no uncertain terms, that we have made our union a little more perfect.”
“今天，”他说，“我们可以毫不犹豫地说，我们使自己的联邦更加接近完美。”