When Edward J. Snowden disclosed the extent of the United States data mining operations in Germany, monitoring as many as 60 million of the country’s telephone and Internet connections in one day and bugging its embassy, politicians here, like others in Europe, were by turns appalled and indignant. But like the French before them, this week they found themselves backpedaling.
爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)曝光了美国对德国进行数据挖掘的程度，称美国每日监测德国的电话和互联网连接数量高达6000万，并称美国在窃听德国大使馆，德国的政治人士和欧洲其他国家的同侪一样，对此感到震惊和愤怒。但在这周，德国的政治人士开始改变态度，一如法国此前的做法。
In an interview released this week Mr. Snowden said that Germany’s intelligence services are “in bed” with the National Security Agency, “the same as with most other Western countries.” The assertion has added to fresh scrutiny in the European news media of Berlin and other European governments that may have benefited from the enormous American snooping program known as Prism, or conducted wide-ranging surveillance operations of their own.
在于本周发布的一次采访中，斯诺登表示，德国的情报机构和美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)“串通一气”，就像“大多数其他西方国家一样”。这番话促使欧洲的新闻媒体重新审视柏林和其他欧洲政府，这些政府可能都从美国大规模的监测项目“棱镜”(Prism)中获益，或自身也在从事大范围的监控行动。
The outrage of European leaders notwithstanding, intelligence experts and historians say the most recent disclosures reflect the complicated nature of the relationship between the intelligence services of the United States and its allies, which have long quietly swapped information on each others’ citizens.
尽管欧洲领导人表示愤怒，情报专家和历史学家称，最新的曝光反映了美国和其盟国的情报机构之间关系的复杂本质，这些机构长期以来都在秘密交换针对彼此公民的情报信息。
“The other services don’t ask us where our information is from and we don’t ask them,” Mr. Snowden said in the interview, conducted by the documentary filmmaker Laura Poitras and Jacob Appelbaum, a computer security researcher, and published this week in the German magazine Der Spiegel. “This way they can protect their political leaders from backlash, if it should become public how massively the private spheres of people around the globe are being violated.” Britain, which has the closest intelligence relationship with the United States of any European country, has been implicated in several of the data operations described by Mr. Snowden, including claims that Britain’s agencies had access to the Prism computer network, which monitors data from a range of American Internet companies. Such sharing would have allowed British intelligence agencies to sidestep British legal restrictions on electronic snooping. Prime Minister David Cameron has insisted that its intelligence services operate within the law.
“其他情报机构不会问我们的情报从何而来，我们也不会问他们，”斯诺登在采访中表示，这次采访由纪录片制作人劳拉·波伊特拉斯(Laura Poitras)和计算机安全研究员雅各布·阿佩尔鲍姆(Jacob Appelbaum)制作，并于本周在德国杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)上发表。“这样一来，如果全球范围内私人领域受到大规模侵犯的事实被公之于众，他们就能保护其政治领导人免受民众的强烈抗议。”英国和美国之间的情报合作关系强过其他任何欧洲国家，有消息显示，斯诺登提到的数个情报数据收集活动都有英国的参与，包括英国情报机构能进入“棱镜”电脑网络，该电脑网络可以监控来自一系列美国互联网公司的数据。这样的信息共享会让英国情报机构免受英国法律对电子监控行为的制约。英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)坚称，该国的情报组织没有违反法律。
Another allegation, reported by The Guardian newspaper, is that the Government Communications Headquarters, the British surveillance center, tapped fiber-optic cables carrying international telephone and Internet traffic, then shared the information with the N.S.A. This program, known as Tempora, involved attaching intercept probes to trans-Atlantic cables when they land on British shores from North America, the report said.
《卫报》(The Guardian)还报道了另一个说法，即英国监控中心政府通讯总部(Government Communications Headquarters)窃听了传输国际电话和互联网流量的光缆，然后把获得的信息和美国国家安全局共享。报道称，这一计划被称为“时光”(Tempora)，其行动包括在从北美跨大西洋到达英国海岸的光缆上安装拦截探测器。
President François Hollande of France was among the first European leaders to express outrage at the revelations of American spying, and especially at accusations that the Americans had spied on French diplomatic posts in Washington and New York.
法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)是最早对美国监控行动表示愤怒的几位领导人之一，他对美国监控法国驻华盛顿和纽约外交机构一事尤其愤怒。
There is no evidence to date that French intelligence services were granted access to information from the N.S.A., Le Monde reported last week, however, that France’s external intelligence agency maintains a broad telecommunications data collection system of its own, amassing metadata on most, if not all, telephone calls, e-mails and Internet activity coming in and out of France.
法国《世界报》(Le Monde)在上周报道，至今仍无证据表明法国情报机构能从美国国家安全局获取信息，但法国的对外情报机构自身拥有一个庞大的电信数据收集系统，可以收集全部或部分出入法国境内的电话、电子邮件和互联网活动的元数据。
Mr. Hollande and other officials have been notably less vocal regarding the claims advanced by Le Monde, which authorities in France have neither confirmed nor denied.
奥朗德和其他官员对《世界报》提到的事明显有所回避，法国官方对此也不置可否。
Given their bad experiences with domestic spying, first under the Nazis and then the former the East German secret police, Germans are touchy when it comes to issues of personal privacy and protection of their personal data. Guarantees ensuring the privacy of mail and all forms of long-distance communications are enshrined in Article 10 of their Constitution.
考虑到德国在国内监控这方面不堪回首的历史（先是纳粹的监控，然后是前东德秘密警察的监控），德国人对个人隐私和个人数据保护等问题相当敏感。德国宪法的第10条庄严规定邮件和各种形式的长途通讯的隐私须得以确保。
When the extent of the American spying in Germany came to light the chancellor’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, decried such behavior as “unacceptable,” insisting that, “We are no longer in the cold war.”
当美国对德国实施监控的深入程度公之于众后，德国总理发言人斯特芬·塞伯特(Steffen Seibert)公开谴责此类行为“不可接受”，坚称“我们可不是在冷战年代”。
But experts say ties between the intelligence services remain rooted in agreements stemming from that era, when West Germany depended on the United States to protect it from the former Soviet Union and its allies in the East.
不过专家表示，情报部门之间的联系仍然是源于冷战时期的共识。当时，西德依靠美国的保护来应对前苏联及其东欧盟友。
Using technology developed by the Americans and used by the N.S.A., Germany’s foreign intelligence service monitors networks from the Middle East, filtering the information before sending it to Washington, said Erich Schmidt-Eenboom, an expert on secret services who runs the Research Institute for Peace Politics in Bavaria.
巴伐利亚州的和平政治研究所(Research Institute for Peace Politics)负责人、特工专家埃里克·施密特-伊恩博姆(Erich Schmidt-Eenboom)表示，德国对外情报部门采用了与美国国家安全局相同的技术，都是由美国人开发，他们会监控中东网络，并将经过筛选的信息传送给华盛顿。
In exchange, Washington shares intelligence with Germany that authorities here say has been essential to preventing terror attacks similar to those in Madrid or London. It is a matter of pride among German authorities that they have been able to swoop in and detain suspects, preventing several plots from being carried out. By focusing the current public debate in Germany on the issue of personal data, experts say Chancellor Angela Merkel is able to steer clear of the stickier questions about Germany’s own surveillance programs and a long history of intelligence sharing with the United States, which still makes many Germans deeply uncomfortable, more than two decades after the end of the cold war.
作为交换，华盛顿也与德国分享情报。德国当局称，这些情报对阻止类似马德里和伦敦的恐怖袭击至关重要。对德国当局而言，他们监控并拘捕嫌疑人，阻止了数起阴谋的实施，对此他们是感到骄傲的。专家表示，通过将德国目前的公众辩论聚焦在个人数据问题上，总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)成功地回避了一些更棘手的问题，这些问题涉及到德国自身的监控计划，以及与美国分享情报的悠久历史。尽管冷战已终结了20多年，但这仍让许多德国人深感不安。
“Every postwar German government, at some point, has been confronted with this problem,” said Josef Foschepoth, a German historian at Freiburg University, of the surveillance scandal. “The way that the chancellor is handling it shows that she knows very well, she is very well informed and she wants the issue to fade away.”
谈到监控丑闻，弗莱堡大学(Freiburg University)的德国历史学家约瑟夫·福申波特(Josef Foschepoth)说，“战后的每届德国政府，都会在某个时间点面临这个问题。默克尔总理的处理方式表明，她深谙此道且充分知情，她希望淡化这个问题。”