The American middle class, long the most affluent in the world, has lost that distinction.
美国中产阶级长期以来一直是全球最富裕的，但现在已经失去了这一殊荣。
While the wealthiest Americans are outpacing many of their global peers, a New York Times analysis shows that across the lower- and middle-income tiers, citizens of other advanced countries have received considerably larger raises over the last three decades.
尽管美国最富有人群的收入增长，超出了全球同一阶层的人群，但《纽约时报》的分析显示，在较低收入和中等收入人群中，其他发达国家的公民在过去三十年里收入水平的提升明显更高。
After-tax middle-class incomes in Canada — substantially behind in 2000 — now appear to be higher than in the United States. The poor in much of Europe earn more than poor Americans.
加拿大中产阶级的税后收入在2000年时显著落后，但现在似乎高于美国。欧洲许多地区的贫困人口收入也高于美国穷人。
The numbers, based on surveys conducted over the past 35 years, offer some of the most detailed publicly available comparisons for different income groups in different countries over time. They suggest that most American families are paying a steep price for high and rising income inequality.
利用过去35年开展的调查所得出的数据，能够对不同国家的不同收入人群进行长期比较。这应该是可以公开获取的最详尽的比较。比较结果显示，多数美国家庭都在为严峻且仍在加剧的收入不平等付出高昂代价。
Although economic growth in the United States continues to be as strong as in many other countries, or stronger, a small percentage of American households is fully benefiting from it. Median income in Canada pulled into a tie with median United States income in 2010 and has most likely surpassed it since then. Median incomes in Western European countries still trail those in the United States, but the gap in several — including Britain, the Netherlands and Sweden — is much smaller than it was a decade ago.
尽管一直以来，美国的经济增长与其他许多国家相当甚至更强，但是完全从中受益的美国家庭所占的比例很小。在2010年，加拿大的收入中位数追上了美国，在那以后更是很可能已超越美国。西欧国家的收入中位数仍然低于美国，但几个国家与美国之间的差距，较十年前大幅缩小，如英国、荷兰、瑞典。
In European countries hit hardest by recent financial crises, such as Greece and Portugal, incomes have of course fallen sharply in recent years.
在最近的金融危机中受挫最重的欧洲国家，如希腊和葡萄牙，收入水平近几年自然出现了急剧下降。
The income data were compiled by LIS, a group that maintains the Luxembourg Income Study Database. The numbers were analyzed by researchers at LIS and by The Upshot, a New York Times website covering policy and politics, and reviewed by outside academic economists. The struggles of the poor in the United States are even starker than those of the middle class. A family at the 20th percentile of the income distribution in this country makes significantly less money than a similar family in Canada, Sweden, Norway, Finland or the Netherlands. Thirty-five years ago, the reverse was true. LIS counts after-tax cash income from salaries, interest and stock dividends, among other sources, as well as direct government benefits such as tax credits.
上述收入数据是由LIS收集的，该组织维护着“卢森堡收入研究数据库”(Luxembourg Income Study Database)。分析数据的研究人员来自LIS和《纽约时报》旗下关注政治与政策的网站“结语”(The Upshot)，分析结论经过学术界的外部经济学家审阅。美国贫困人口所面临的困难甚于其中产阶级。在美国，处于收入分布图最底层的20%家庭所取得的收入，大大低于加拿大、瑞典、挪威、芬兰和荷兰的相似家庭，35年前的状况与此相反。LIS计算的税后现金收入包括工资、利息、股息等来源，也包括直接由政府提供的福利，如税收减免。
The findings are striking because the most commonly cited economic statistics — such as per capita gross domestic product — continue to show that the United States has maintained its lead as the world’s richest large country. But those numbers are averages, which do not capture the distribution of income. With a big share of recent income gains in this country flowing to a relatively small slice of high-earning households, most Americans are not keeping pace with their counterparts around the world.
这些结论出人意料，因为最广泛引用的经济统计数据，如人均国内生产总值(GDP)依然显示，美国作为最富有的大国仍维持着领导地位。然而这些数字是平均值，并不能反映收入的分配。近年来美国的收入增长流入了比例相对很小的高收入家庭，多数美国人未能跟上世界其他国家同等收入人群的步伐。
“The idea that the median American has so much more income than the middle class in all other parts of the world is not true these days,” said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist who is not associated with LIS. “In 1960, we were massively richer than anyone else. In 1980, we were richer. In the 1990s, we were still richer.”
“美国中等收入人群与世界其他国家的中产阶级相比，收入要高得多——这种说法现在已经不再成立了，”哈佛大学经济学家劳伦斯·卡茨(Lawrence Katz)说。“1960年，我们比其他所有国家都富得多，到了1980年，我们比别人富。在90年代，我们仍然比别人富。”卡茨与LIS并无关联。
That is no longer the case, Professor Katz added.
卡茨接着说，现在已经不再是这种情况了。
Three broad factors appear to be driving much of the weak income performance in the United States. First, educational attainment in the United States has risen far more slowly than in much of the industrialized world over the last three decades, making it harder for the American economy to maintain its share of highly skilled, well-paying jobs.
美国收入增长乏力的主要推动因素似乎有三个。第一，美国教育程度在过去三十年里的提升速度远低于多数发达国家，从而使美国经济更难维持在高技能、高薪就业岗位中所占的份额。
Americans between the ages of 55 and 65 have literacy, numeracy and technology skills that are above average relative to 55- to 65-year-olds in rest of the industrialized world, according to a recent study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, an international group. Younger Americans, though, are not keeping pace: Those between 16 and 24 rank near the bottom among rich countries, well behind their counterparts in Canada, Australia, Japan and Scandinavia and close to those in Italy and Spain.
经济合作与发展组织(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)最近的一项研究显示，年龄在55岁至65岁之间的美国人，在识字率、算术、技术技能方面优于其他发达国家同龄人的平均水平。然而更年轻的美国人则没有跟上步伐，16岁至24岁的人在富国中排名接近垫底，远远低于加拿大、澳大利亚、日本，及斯堪的纳维亚国家的同龄人，接近意大利和西班牙的同龄人。
A second factor is that companies in the United States economy distribute a smaller share of their bounty to the middle class and poor than similar companies elsewhere. Top executives make substantially more money in the United States than in other wealthy countries. The minimum wage is lower. Labor unions are weaker.
第二个因素是，企业在美国经济中分配给中产阶级和贫困人群的收入比例，低于其他国家的类似企业。在美国，最高管理层赚的钱远远比其他富裕国家要多，同时最低工资更低，工会力量也更弱。
And because the total bounty produced by the American economy has not been growing substantially faster here in recent decades than in Canada or Western Europe, most American workers are left receiving meager raises.
而且由于美国经济创造的总收入，近几十年的增长步伐并没有明显高于加拿大或西欧国家，许多美国工薪阶层取得的收入增长少得可怜。
Finally, governments in Canada and Western Europe take more aggressive steps to raise the take-home pay of low- and middle-income households by redistributing income.
最后，加拿大和西欧国家的政府也会采取更积极的措施，通过收入再分配确保中低收入家庭拿到手的实际收入能够有所提高。
Janet Gornick, the director of LIS, noted that inequality in so-called market incomes — which does not count taxes or government benefits — “is high but not off the charts in the United States.” Yet the American rich pay lower taxes than the rich in many other places, and the United States does not redistribute as much income to the poor as other countries do. As a result, inequality in disposable income is sharply higher in the United States than elsewhere.
LIS主任珍妮特·戈尔尼克(Janet Gornick)指出，谈到不计算税收或政府福利的所谓“市场收入”，“美国的不平等很高，但并没有高得离谱。”然而美国富人的税负比其他国家的富人要低，而且也不会像其他国家那样，将那么多的收入再分配给穷人。因此，可支配收入的不平等在美国比在其他国家要严重得多。
Whatever the causes, the stagnation of income has left many Americans dissatisfied with the state of the country. Only about 30 percent of people believe the country is headed in the right direction, polls show.
无论原因是什么，收入增长的停滞都让许多美国人对国家的现状产生了不满。民调显示，只有大约30%的人相信，美国在朝正确的方向前进。
“Things are pretty flat,” said Kathy Washburn, 59, of Mount Vernon, Iowa, who earns $33,000 at an Ace Hardware store, where she has worked for 23 years. “You have mostly lower level and high and not a lot in between. People need to start in between to work their way up.”
凯西·沃什伯恩(Kathy Washburn)今年59岁，住在艾奥瓦州弗农山。她说，“事情没有什么起色。”沃什伯恩的收入是3.3万美元（约合20.6万元人民币），她已经在Ace Hardware的一家店铺工作了23年。“对于大多数人来说，收入水平较低，一些人收入很高。处在中间的人却没多少。要想往上走，总要从中间开始。”