New deportation cases brought by the Obama administration in the nation’s immigration courts have been declining steadily since 2009, and judges have increasingly ruled against deportations, leading to a 43 percent drop in the number of deportations through the courts in the last five years, according to Justice Department statistics released on Wednesday.
根据司法部(Justice Department)周三公布的数字，自2009年以来，奥巴马政府向移民法庭提起的驱逐出境诉讼案稳步减少，而法官也越来越多地做出反对驱逐的裁决，因此过去五年里法庭裁决的驱逐出境案例数量下降了43%。
The figures show that the administration opened 26 percent fewer deportation cases in the courts last year than in 2009. In 2013, immigration judges ordered deportations in 105,064 cases nationwide.
此次公布的数字表明，政府在去年发起的驱逐案比2009年少了26%。2013年，全国移民法官在105064宗诉讼中做出了驱逐出境的裁决。
The statistics present a different picture of President Obama’s enforcement policies than the one painted by many immigrant advocates, who have assailed the president as the “deporter in chief” and accused him of rushing to reach a record of two million deportations. While Mr. Obama has deported more foreigners than any other president, the pace of deportations has recently declined.
这份统计报告所呈现出的奥巴马总统施政形象，与许多移民倡导人士渲染的截然不同，他们斥责总统是“总驱逐官”，说他很快就要创下200万宗驱逐的纪录。奥巴马任内政府驱逐的外国人的确要多于以往任何一位总统，但驱逐的步调已经放慢。
The steepest drop in deportations filed in the courts came after 2011, when the administration began to apply more aggressively a policy of prosecutorial discretion that officials said would lead to fewer deportations of illegal immigrants who had no criminal record. Last year the Department of Homeland Security opened 187,678 deportation cases, nearly 50,000 fewer than in 2011.
提交给法庭的驱逐请求在2011年后出现了最大幅度的缩减，当时政府开始更严格地实施一套公诉裁量权政策，官员说这将减少无犯罪记录的非法移民被驱逐的情况。去年国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)提交了187678宗驱逐案，比2011年减少了将近5万宗。
At the same time, the share of cases in which judges decided against deportation and for allowing foreigners to remain in the United States has consistently increased, to about one-third last year from about one-fifth in 2009.
与此同时，法官拒绝做出驱逐裁决，并允许外国人留在美国的情况也在不断增多，从2009年的约五分之一增加到去年的约三分之一。
The court figures do not suggest there has been any wholesale retreat from enforcement by the administration, as many Republican lawmakers have contended in the polarized debate over immigration. Rather, more immigrants are seeking lawyers and fighting deportations, leading to longer and more complex cases for immigration judges to weigh.
从法庭的数据上看不出政府在大举放松执法，这和很多共和党议员在极度两极化的移民辩论中所指责的情况是不相符的。倒是有更多的移民在寻求律师的帮助，针对驱逐做出抗诉，移民法官面对的案件越来越漫长和复杂。
The number of deportations ordered by immigration courts is only a portion of total deportations in a given year. But the lower numbers from the courts contributed to a drop in overall deportations last year, when enforcement agents made 368,644 removals, a 10 percent decrease from 2012. Also, some deportations that judges order — for example, if the foreigner becomes a fugitive — may not be carried out.
移民法庭做出的驱逐裁决只是全年驱逐出境案例的一部分。然而法庭做出驱逐裁决的数量减少，带动了去年整体数字的下降，执法部门共实施驱逐368644例，比2012年减少了10%。还有，一些法官裁决的驱逐可能没有得到执行，例如有时候外国人已经逃跑。
In addition, since 2011 the administration made a major shift in enforcement geography, sending more agents and resources to the Southwest border to quickly remove immigrants caught crossing illegally. Many deportations at the border do not go through the immigration courts.
此外，自2011年以来政府在执法的地域分布上有重大转变，往西南边境派出了更多的执法人员和资源，以尽快将非法入境的移民驱逐出境。许多在边境进行的驱逐不会经过移民法庭。
Homeland Security officials said the court statistics reflected their efforts to focus on deporting convicted criminals, foreigners posing security threats and recent illegal border crossers.
国土安全部官员说，他们把精力集中在驱逐已判决罪犯、有安全威胁的外国人和近期非法入境者上，这些努力反映在了法庭的数据上。
“The administration has taken a number of steps to focus our resources on those priorities,” said Peter Boogaard, a department spokesman. He said “the exercise of prosecutorial discretion” had led enforcement agents and visa officials to file fewer deportation charges.
“政府采取了一系列措施，以将资源集中于我们的重点任务上，”国土安全部发言人彼得·布加德(Peter Boogaard)说。他说“公诉裁量权的操作”让执法人员和签证官员可以减少发起驱逐指控的数量。
Deportations were further reduced by a big increase since 2011 in cases that were suspended, often by agreement between Homeland Security prosecutors and judges. Under the prosecutorial discretion policy, administration officials said they would offer suspensions to clear the court docket of low-priority cases involving immigrants with no criminal records who had families in the United States.
而自2011年以来，国土安全部的检察官与法官达成协议后搁置的案件有大幅增加，也进一步减少了驱逐。在公诉裁量政策下，政府官员说他们会提出搁置一些次要案件，从而减少法庭的案件积压，这些案件往往涉及无犯罪记录且有家人在美国的移民。
The number of case suspensions rose to 32,454 last year from 6360 in 2011, an increase of more than 400 percent.
搁置案件的数量从2011年的6360宗上升到去年的32454宗，升幅超过了400%。
Mr. Obama has asked the Homeland Security secretary, Jeh C. Johnson, to review the enforcement strategy to come up with what he called a more humane policy. Mr. Johnson has been meeting with lawmakers, advocates and religious groups to hear their often impassioned criticism of the current approach.
奥巴马已经要求国土安全部部长杰·C·约翰逊(Jeh C. Johnson)对执法策略进行评估，拿出一套他称为更人性的政策来。约翰逊已经和议员、倡导人士和宗教团体进行了会谈，他们对当前的手段往往有颇为激烈的批评。
The new court statistics do not include any description of foreigners facing deportation, such as their criminal histories.
新公布的法庭统计数据不包括对面临驱逐的外国人的描述，例如他们的犯罪记录。
The figures do reveal that more of them are battling their cases and going to court with lawyers versed in the intricacies of immigration law, which Mr. Osuna hailed as a positive trend for the system. In 2013, 59 percent of cases involved lawyers, compared with 35 percent in 2009.
但从数据上可以看到，越来越多的人选择对簿公堂，寻找对错综复杂的移民法了如指掌的律师帮他们抗争，司法部负责移民法庭系统的主任胡安·欧苏纳(Juan Osuna)称这是一个积极的趋势。2013年，59%的案件有律师参与，相比之下2009年为35%。