Younger Americans die earlier and live in poorer health than their counterparts in other developed countries, with far higher rates of death from guns, car accidents and drug addiction, according to a new analysis of health and longevity in the United States.
据美国一份新近发布的健康及寿命分析报告显示，与其他发达国家的同龄人相比，美国年轻人的预期寿命更短，健康状况也更差，枪支暴力、车祸和毒瘾导致的死亡率也更高。
Researchers have known for some time that the United States fares poorly in comparison with other rich countries, a trend established in the 1980s. But most studies have focused on older ages, when the majority of people die.
一段时间以来，研究人员已经知道，和其他富裕国家相比，美国人的健康状况不那么好，这一趋势形成于20世纪80年代。不过，大部分健康和寿命研究都集中在老年人，这个高死亡率人群。
The findings were stark. Deaths before age 50 accounted for about two-thirds of the difference in life expectancy between males in the United States and their counterparts in 16 other developed countries, and about one-third of the difference for females. The countries in the analysis included Canada, Japan, Australia, France, Germany and Spain.
研究结果相当严峻。美国男性的预期寿命，与其他16个发达国家男性的预期寿命之间的差距，有三分之二是由于50岁之前死亡导致的，而女性在预期寿命上的差异有三分之一是由于50岁之前死亡导致的。分析包括的国家有加拿大、日本、澳大利亚、法国、德国和西班牙。
The 378-page study by a panel of experts convened by the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council is the first to systematically compare death rates and health measures for people of all ages, including American youths. It went further than other studies in documenting the full range of causes of death, from diseases to accidents to violence. It was based on a broad review of mortality and health studies and statistics.
这份长达378页的研究报告由美国医学研究院(Institute of Medicine)和全国研究委员会(National Research Council)召集的一个专家小组编写。它是第一份系统比较包括美国年轻人在内的各年龄段人群的死亡率及健康指标的报告。和其它研究相比，它更加全方位地研究了包括疾病、事故和暴力在内的各种死亡原因。专家组针对死亡率、健康研究和统计数据展开了大量研究，得出了上述结论。
The panel called the pattern of higher rates of disease and shorter lives “the U.S. health disadvantage,” and said it was responsible for dragging the country to the bottom in terms of life expectancy over the past 30 years. American men ranked last in life expectancy among the 17 countries in the study, and American women ranked second to last.
研究小组把这种高患病率及更短寿命的规律性现象称为“美国健康劣势”，说这是过去30年来美国人预期寿命垫底的原因。研究显示，美国男性预期寿命在17个国家里位列倒数第一，美国女性预期寿命则位列倒数第二。
“Something fundamental is going wrong,” said Dr. Steven Woolf, chairman of the Department of Family Medicine at Virginia Commonwealth University, who led the panel. “This is not the product of a particular administration or political party. Something at the core is causing the U.S. to slip behind these other high-income countries. And it’s getting worse.”
研究小组负责人、弗吉尼亚联邦大学(Virginia Commonwealth University)家庭医学系(Department of Family Medicine)主任史蒂文·伍尔夫(Steven Woolf)医生说，“出了一些根本性问题。这不是某届政府或某个政党造成的。某些核心问题正导致美国落后于其他那些高收入国家。而且情况还在恶化。”
Car accidents, gun violence and drug overdoses were major contributors to years of life lost by Americans before age 50.
车祸、枪支暴力和吸毒过量是让美国人在50岁之前死亡的主要原因。
The rate of firearm homicides was 20 times higher in the United States than in the other countries, according to the report, which cited a 2011 study of 23 countries. And though suicide rates were lower in the United States, firearm suicide rates were six times higher.
报告援引2011年对23个国家进行的研究披露，在美国，持枪杀人案件比其他国家多出20倍。虽然美国的自杀率较低，但枪械自杀的比率比其他国家高六倍。
Sixty-nine percent of all American homicide deaths in 2007 involved firearms, compared with an average of 26 percent in other countries, the study said.
研究透露，美国2007年的杀人案中有69%的案件涉及枪支，其他国家这一比例平均只有26%。
“The bottom line is that we are not preventing damaging health behaviors,” said Samuel Preston, a demographer and sociologist at the University of Pennsylvania, who was on the panel. “You can blame that on public health officials, or on the health care system. No one understands where responsibility lies.”
研究小组成员、宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)人口学家兼社会学家塞缪尔·普雷斯顿(Samuel Preston)表示，“总而言之，我们不能防止健康问题上的有害行为。你可以怪罪公共卫生官员或医疗体系。没有人明白责任应该由谁来负。”
Panelists were surprised at just how consistently Americans ended up at the bottom of the rankings. The United States had the second-highest death rate from the most common form of heart disease, the kind that causes heart attacks, and the second-highest death rate from lung disease, a legacy of high smoking rates in past decades. American adults also have the highest diabetes rates.
美国人在各项指标上都垫底，令专家感到吃惊。美国人因普通心脏病导致的死亡率在各国中为第二高，肺病死亡率也位居第二，这是过去10年高吸烟率的后果。美国成年人的糖尿病患病率也是最高的。
Youths fared no better. The United States has the highest infant mortality rate among these countries, and its young people have the highest rates of sexually transmitted diseases, teen pregnancy and deaths from car crashes. Americans lose more years of life before age 50 to alcohol and drug abuse than people in any of the other countries.
年轻人的情况也不乐观。美国是被调查的国家中婴儿死亡率最高的国家，美国年轻人患性传播疾病的比率、青少年怀孕率和车祸死亡率也是最高的。美国人50岁以前因酗酒和吸毒导致死亡的也比其他国家更多。
Americans also had the lowest probability over all of surviving to the age of 50. The report’s second chapter details health indicators for youths where the United States ranks near or at the bottom. There are so many that the list takes up four pages. Chronic diseases, including heart disease, also played a role for people under 50.
美国人活到50岁的机率也是各国中最低的。报告的第二章详细罗列了年轻人的各项健康指标，美国青年的排名不是在最后，就是接近最后。健康指标的内容繁多，占了整整四页。对50岁一下人群而言，心脏病等慢性疾病也是影响寿命的因素之一。
“We expected to see some bad news and some good news,” Dr. Woolf said. “But the U.S. ranked near and at the bottom in almost every health indicator. That stunned us.”
“我们以为会看到一些坏消息和一些好消息，”伍尔夫博士说，“但是美国人几乎在每项健康指标上的排名都在最后或接近最后，这让我们感到吃惊。”
There were bright spots. Death rates from cancers that can be detected with tests, like breast cancer, were lower in the United States. Adults had better control over their cholesterol and high blood pressure. And the very oldest Americans — above 75 — tended to outlive their counterparts.
还有一些积极信息。美国能通过检测发现的癌症（如乳腺癌）的致死率比较低。成年人对胆固醇和高血压的控制较好。而且最年长的美国人，即75岁以上的老人，通常会比其他国家的同龄人更加长寿。
The panel sought to explain the poor performance. It noted the United States has a highly fragmented health care system, with limited primary care resources and a large uninsured population. It has the highest rates of poverty among the countries studied.
研究小组试图解释美国人健康状况欠佳的原因。它指出，美国的医疗保健系统非常支离破碎，基础医疗资源很有限，还有很多人不在保障范围内。在研究对象国中，美国的贫困率最高。
Education also played a role. Americans who have not graduated from high school die from diabetes at three times the rate of those with some college, Dr. Woolf said. In the other countries, more generous social safety nets buffer families from the health consequences of poverty, the report said.
教育也是一个原因。伍尔夫说，美国高中未毕业的人死于糖尿病的比率是受过大学教育的人的三倍。报告还称，其他国家有更加慷慨的社会保障体系，降低了贫困导致的健康方面问题对家庭的伤害。
Still, even the people most likely to be healthy, like college-educated Americans and those with high incomes, fare worse on many health indicators.
尽管如此，最有可能身体健康的人群，如受过大学教育和高收入的美国人，在很多健康指标上的表现也比较差。