WASHINGTON — An Islamic State detainee currently in U.S. custody at a temporary detention facility in Erbil, Iraq, is a specialist in chemical weapons whom U.S. military officials are questioning about the militant Sunni group's plans to use the banned substances in Iraq and Syria, defense officials said.
华盛顿——伊斯兰国的一名化学武器专家被美国抓获，目前收押在伊拉克埃尔比勒的一个临时羁押场所。国防部官员称，美军人员正就此逊尼派武装组织欲使用违禁物质袭击伊拉克和叙利亚的计划，对此人进行审讯。
The detainee was identified by officials as Sleiman Daoud al-Afari, a chemical and biological weapons expert who once worked for Saddam Hussein's Military Industrialization Authority.
美国官员称，这名被扣押人员名为苏莱曼·达吾德·阿法里(Sleiman Daoud al-Afari)，曾在萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的军事工业化管理局(Military Industrialization Authority)担任生化武器专家。
Al-Afari, described by the military as a “significant” Islamic State operative was captured a month ago by commandos in an elite American Special Operations force, has, under interrogation, provided his captors with details about how the group had weaponized mustard gas into powdered form and loaded it into artillery shells, the officials said.
美军形容阿法里是伊斯兰国的“重要”人员。他于一个月前被美军一支特种部队的精英突击队抓获。美军官员称，他在接受讯问时，向看守他的人员详细供述了，伊斯兰国如何将芥子气制作成粉末，并装载到导弹弹壳里。
One official said the gas was not concentrated enough to kill anyone, but that it could maim people.
一位官员说，该化学气体的浓度还不足以致命，但能使人致残。
As is protocol, Defense Department officials notified the International Committee of the Red Cross, which monitors the treatment of detainees, that they were holding an Islamic State fighter. The Red Cross acknowledged in a statement on Tuesday that it had visited the detainee but gave no other information.
美国国防部官员依照条约，向负责监督在押人员有否受到虐待的国际红十字会(International Committee of the Red Cross)，通报了美军收押一名伊斯兰国战斗人员的情况。国际红十字会在周二发出的一份声明称，已对犯人进行了探视，除此之外没有透露其他信息。
Defense Department officials insist that the United States has no plans to hold the detainee or any other captives indefinitely, and that they would be handed over to the Iraqi and Kurdish authorities after they had been interviewed. The officials say they did not intend to establish a long-term U.S. facility to hold Islamic State detainees, and Obama administration officials have ruled out sending any to the United States military prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.
国防部官员坚称，美国并无计划长期关押抓获的囚犯和其他人员，这些人员将在讯问之后，交给伊拉克和库尔德当局。官员还表示，美国无意建立长期的关押场所来囚禁这些人员，奥巴马政府官员也排除了把他们送到位于古巴关塔那摩湾的美军监狱的可能性。
Al-Afari was captured last month, shortly after the arrival in Iraq of a new Special Operations force that is made up primarily of Delta Force commandos. They are the first major U.S. combat force on the ground there since the United States pulled out of the country at the end of 2011.
阿法里于上个月被抓获，这发生在美军一支特种部队抵达伊拉克后不久。这支队伍主要由三角洲部队(Delta Force)的成员组成，他们是自2011年美军撤离伊拉克之后，第一支返伊的美军主要地面部队。