TOKYO — Japan went into a collective swoon two months ago when Caroline Kennedy arrived as the United States’ ambassador. The appointment of someone with such celebrity appeal — who offered a living link to a golden age when America was still reassuringly strong and confident — appeared to be proof that Washington was finally giving Japan the embrace it craved.
东京——两个月前，当卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)以美国大使的身份抵达时，日本举国一片欢腾。任命这样一位有着名流光环的人物——她是那个黄金年代的一个活生生的见证，那时的美国尚有着令人宽慰的强大和自信——似乎证明，华盛顿终于给了日本一个盼望已久的拥抱。
When she traveled by horse-drawn carriage to present her credentials to Emperor Akihito, a formality observed by many new ambassadors, thousands of cheering Japanese lined the streets in a rare display of public affection for a diplomatic envoy.
当她乘坐马车前去向明仁天皇(Emperor Akihito)递交国书时，数千名欢呼雀跃的日本人挤满了街道，罕见地显示出了日本民众对一名外交使节的感情。乘马车向天皇递交国书是许多大使履新过程中的一项仪式。
But Ms. Kennedy has quickly surprised her Japanese hosts by being undiplomatically frank on delicate issues. She created a stir recently when she publicly expressed concern about a bloody annual dolphin hunt that is widely condemned abroad, but that many Japanese view as a part of their traditional culture.
但很快，肯尼迪就在一些敏感问题上表现出与其外交官身份不符的坦率，让她的日本东道主大为意外。前不久，她公开对每年一度的海豚捕杀活动表示关切，引发了轰动。捕杀海豚的活动在海外广受谴责，但许多日本人却认为它是传统文化的一部分。
“Deeply concerned by inhumaneness of drive hunt dolphin killing,” Ms. Kennedy wrote last week on Twitter. “USG opposes drive hunt fisheries,” she added, referring to the United States government’s stance on the hunts, in which dolphins are herded into coves so they can be hacked to death.
“对海豚捕杀的惨无人道深感忧心，”肯尼迪上周在Twitter上写道，“美国政府反对以驱赶式猎杀为手段的渔业。”她提到了美国政府对猎杀海豚一事的立场。用这种方式捕杀海豚时，海豚被赶进小海湾里，然后再被砍死。
The comment, coming soon after her embassy issued a rare criticism of the prime minister for visiting a controversial war shrine, indicated that the often reserved Ms. Kennedy might be more of an outspoken envoy than many expected, willing to take on subjects the Japanese prefer to discuss behind closed doors. And she is doing so using a social medium that allows for little of the nuance that shapes formal Japanese diplomatic communication; Ms. Kennedy is an active Twitter user, posting in English and Japanese for her more than 75,000 followers.
在发表此番评论前不久，肯尼迪领导的大使馆罕见地批评了日本首相参拜一处有争议的、供奉着战争亡灵的神社。这次的评论表明，通常为人矜持的肯尼迪可能比许多人预想的更直言不讳，愿意提及日本人更倾向于关起门来讨论的一些问题。而且，她在通过社交媒体来做这些事。和日本进行正式外交沟通所必需的那种细腻微妙，在这个平台上荡然无存。肯尼迪在Twitter上很活跃，用英语和日语发帖，有超过7.5万名追随者。
Her stark criticism of the hunt comes as the United States is trying to strike a delicate balance — nudging Japan to stop antagonizing its neighbors over their shared wartime history, while also encouraging its support for a stronger American presence in the region as a counterbalance to China.
她严厉批评海豚捕杀活动之际，正值美国试图达成一种微妙的平衡——在慢慢说服日本停止在战争历史问题上激怒邻国的同时，鼓励日本支持美国增强在该地区的力量，以制衡中国。
Japanese officials greeted Ms. Kennedy’s comments on the dolphin killings, which the State Department says it supported, with a mixture of irritation and seeming confusion.
日本官员对肯尼迪有关猎杀海豚一事的评论既显得有些不快，又感到困惑。而美国国务院(State Department)则对相关评论表示支持。
Yoshinobu Nisaka, the governor of the prefecture where this week’s hunt took place, said in a news conference that “we live on the lives of cows and pigs.”
本周进行了海豚捕杀的那个县的知事仁坂吉伸(Yoshinobu Nisaka)在一次新闻发布会上说，“我们的生活离不开牛和猪。”
“It is not appropriate to say only dolphin hunting is inhumane,” he continued.
“因此只说捕杀海豚残忍是不恰当的，”他继续说。
The top government spokesman, Yoshihide Suga, defended the hunt — the same one filmed in the 2009 American documentary “The Cove” — as being in accordance with international law. But he quickly added that Japan would try to “explain our stance to the United States.”
政府首席发言人菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)为捕杀活动——就是2009年美国纪录片《海豚湾》(The Cove)中拍摄的那种捕杀活动——进行了辩护，称其符合国际法。但他迅速补充说，日本将尝试“向美国解释我们的立场”。
The United States Embassy in Japan referred all requests for comment to Washington, and on Friday, the White House spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, said that “Ambassador Kennedy is doing a great job representing the United States in Japan.” The State Department said that even before Ms. Kennedy’s confirmation hearing last fall, she received numerous comments about Japan’s dolphin hunting practices and decided she wanted to address the issue. She consulted with the department about the administration’s policies before posting on Twitter, an official said.
美国驻日本大使馆将所有置评请求推给了华盛顿。周五，白宫发言人帕特里克·文特雷尔(Patrick Ventrell)表示，“在日本，肯尼迪大使在代表美国方面做得非常出色。”国务院表示，早在去年肯尼迪的任命听证会之前，她就收到了大量有关日本捕杀海豚的活动的评论，并决定要提出这个问题。一名官员称，在Twitter上发帖前，肯尼迪曾就政府在此事上的原则咨询了国务院。
Commentators in Japan say some of the turbulence may be inevitable, since the Obama administration chose in Ms. Kennedy a public figure with the star power to dazzle the Japanese public, but who is also not afraid to speak out. Even if some officials felt jittery with her approach, it might prove difficult for them to say so publicly.
日本的评论人士称，引起一些骚动是不可避免的，因为奥巴马政府选择的肯尼迪是一名公众人物，有着让日本民众倾倒的明星魅力，同时她又不怕畅所欲言。即便部分官员对她的行事方式感到不安，但事实或许会证明，他们很难公开地表达自己的相关感想。
“How do you rein someone like her in?” said Dave Spector, an American who has worked in Japan for more than 25 years as a television commentator and who has followed Ms. Kennedy’s ambassadorship closely. “Her father is on the 50-cents coin, for crying out loud. She is bigger than life.”
“像她这样的人，你怎么控制呢？”在日本做了25年以上电视评论员的美国人戴夫·斯派克特(Dave Spector)说，他一直在密切地关注着肯尼迪大使。“天啊，她父亲可是印在50美分硬币上的。她不是一般人。”
Her fame is so formidable, he said, that she is vulnerable to people looking for meaning in her every move. On Wednesday, a routine meeting with the South Korean ambassador to Japan generated articles in both countries. The news agencies emphasized that a sore point between the two countries had come up during the meeting.
他说，由于她的声名实在太过显赫，以至于人们要在她的一举一动中寻找涵义。她周三和韩国驻日本大使的例行会面在两国都得到了报道。新闻机构强调，在会议中出现了一个两国之间的敏感话题。
The Kyodo news agency of Japan, in its headline, quoted the Yonhap news agency of South Korea as saying that the two ambassadors discussed the so-called comfort women issue, but neither article makes clear if she even made a comment on the matter. Many scholars say the women, tens of thousands of them Korean, were forced to serve in wartime Japanese military brothels, but many Japanese conservatives say they were prostitutes.
日本的共同通讯社(Kyodo)在报道标题中引用了韩国的联合通讯社(Yonhap)的报道，称两位大使讨论了所谓的慰安妇问题，不过两篇报道都没有明确指出，她是否就该问题发表了评论。许多学者说，在战争期间有许多女性被强迫在日军的妓院工作，其中包括数以万计的韩朝女性，然而许多日本保守派人士说她们本身就是娼妓。
Her willingness to engage in touchy issues may prove a particular headache for the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, a conservative who has pledged to maintain close ties with Washington. Mr. Abe, who has 260,000 followers on Twitter, has been popular in Japan’s small but very vocal community of nationalist Web users.
她这种面对棘手问题的意愿，可能会让首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的政府颇感头疼。作为一名保守派，安倍曾承诺要和华盛顿保持密切联系。在人数不多但言辞激烈的日本民族主义网民社区里，拥有26万Twitter追随者的安倍人气颇高。
At least one noted woman also spoke out on the dolphin hunt. A day after the ambassador’s post, Yoko Ono published an open letter to the fishermen to stop the killings she said have given Japan a bad name internationally. (Dolphin meat is prized in a limited number of places in Japan, but conservatives bridle at foreign dictates of what Japan should do.)
至少还有一位知名女性也在猎杀海豚的问题上表明了态度。在大使发出帖子后的第二天，小野洋子(Yoko Ono)发表了一封致渔民的公开信，希望停止在她看来有损日本国际形象的猎杀。（海豚肉只在日本有限几处地方被奉为瑰宝，但保守派人士对外国人来插手日本事务怒不可遏。）
Despite the kerfuffle, Ms. Kennedy remains enormously popular in Japan, Mr. Spector and others say. Partly, this is because of the aura here that still surrounds the presidency of her father, John F. Kennedy, for whom many older Japanese feel an almost teary-eyed nostalgia. When Ms. Kennedy was named as ambassador, Japanese television stations repeatedly broadcast images of her as a little girl on her father’s lap, or standing forlornly at his funeral.
斯派克特等人说，虽然惹出这么多是非，肯尼迪在日本依然是很受欢迎的。这在一定程度上是因为她那位至今仍笼罩在光环里的父亲约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)，在很多年长的日本人眼里，他代表着一段令人几欲落泪的美好往昔。在肯尼迪被任命为大使时，日本的电视台反复播出她小时候坐在父亲膝上的图像，或者是在父亲葬礼上那令人心痛的样子。
Nor has Japan been entirely negative about her outspokenness. Some of the comments posted on Twitter expressed admiration for her as a woman who has the courage to speak her mind in Japan, a nation still dominated by men.
同时，日本人对她的直言不讳也并非完全持负面看法。Twitter上有一些评论表达了对她作为一名女性的钦佩，认为她在日本这个至今仍由男性主宰的国度里敢于说出自己的想法。
But others quickly criticized her for sticking her nose into something that they say is not her, or any other foreigner’s, business. Some angrily reminded her that Commodore Matthew C. Perry opened Japan at gunpoint in 1853 to secure ports for American whalers.
但是也有人迅速开始批评她，认为她插手一些跟她、跟任何外国人都无关的事。有人愤怒地提醒她，海军准将马修·C·佩里(Matthew C. Perry)在1853年用武力打开日本国门，是为了获取供美国捕鲸船使用的港口。
“We don’t want to be told such things by Americans who used to kill whales just for their oil,” said one user. Another was succinct: “Stupid woman! Go home!”
“我们可不想被美国人说教，他们当年杀鲸鱼就为了取鲸脂，”一名用户说。还有一个人简明扼要地说：“蠢女人！回家去！”
Many said the relationship between Japan and the United States is strong enough to endure an honest airing of opinions, and that the number of Japanese who feel strongly about the dolphin hunt is limited in any case.
很多人说，日美两国有着稳固的关系，足以确保双方开诚布公地交换看法，此外，在海豚捕杀问题上持强硬立场的日本人的数量无论怎么说都很有限。
“Frankly I think it’s good that someone with that kind of credentials can say the kind of thing that others would hesitate to say,” said Ellis S. Krauss, a professor of Japanese politics at the School of International Relations and Pacific Studies at the University of California, San Diego. Although the message could have been conveyed more subtly and privately, he said, “It would have gotten less attention if Caroline Kennedy hadn’t said it.”
“一个受到如此广泛认可的人可以说出其他人难以启齿的话，坦率地说，我认为这是好事，”加州大学圣迭戈分校(University of California, San Diego)国际关系和太平洋研究学院研究日本政治的教授埃利斯·S·克劳斯(Ellis S. Krauss)说。他认为，虽然这个讯息本可以用更巧妙的、私下里的方式传达出来，但“如果不是卡洛琳·肯尼迪来说，就不会受到那么多的关注。”
Minoru Morita, a political analyst who runs a think tank in Tokyo, says he does not think the flare-up will have a lasting effect on her popularity. “I don’t think many Japanese felt good about her criticizing Japan’s food culture,” he said. “But most Japanese have very fond feelings for her, and for the era of her father, and that won’t go away easily.”
东京一家智库机构的负责人、政治分析人士森田实(Minoru Morita)说，他不认为这次争议会对她的人气构成持续性的影响。“我认为没有多少日本人会乐于看到她这样来批判日本饮食文化，”他说。“但是大多数日本人对她以及他父亲那个时代都是非常喜爱的，这种感情不是说没就没的。”