LONDON — The United States has opened a new line of combat against the Islamic State, directing the military’s 6-year-old Cyber Command for the first time to mount computer-network attacks that are now being used alongside more traditional weapons. 
伦敦——美国开始对伊斯兰国采取一种新的打击方式，首次指示成立六年的美军网络战司令部(Cyber Command)对伊斯兰国发起网络袭击，这种方式目前被用来与更传统的武器相配合。
The effort reflects President Barack Obama’s desire to bring many of the secret U.S. cyberweapons that had been aimed elsewhere, notably at Iran, into the fight against the Islamic State — which has proved effective in using modern communications and encryption to recruit and carry out operations. 
这种努力表明，奥巴马总统希望用曾打击其他目标——尤其是对伊朗——的秘密网络武器打击伊斯兰国。该组织已经证明自己可以有效使用现代通讯设备和加密方式招募人员和发起行动。
The National Security Agency, which specializes in electronic surveillance, has for years listened intensely to the militants of the Islamic State, and those reports are often part of the president’s daily intelligence briefing. But the NSA’s military counterpart, Cyber Command, was focused largely on Russia, Iran and North Korea — where cyberattacks on the United States most frequently originate — and had run virtually no operations against what has become the most dangerous terrorist organization in the world. 
多年来，专门负责电子监控的美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）一直对伊斯兰国武装分子进行监听，相关报告通常是总统的每日情报综述的一部分。但NSA的军方对应机构网络战司令部的行动主要针对俄罗斯、伊朗和朝鲜——最频繁地对美国发起网络袭击的国家——几乎不曾对伊斯兰国展开过任何行动，而后者已经成为世界上最危险的恐怖组织。
A review of what should be done to confront the Islamic State is on Obama’s agenda Monday, when he is scheduled to attend a conference in Hanover, Germany, with the leaders of Britain, France, Italy and Germany. 
重新审视应该对伊斯兰国采取何种行动，是奥巴马在本周一的商谈事项之一，当天他将在德国的汉诺威与英国、法国、意大利和德国的领导人一起参加一场会议。
The goal of the new campaign is to disrupt the ability of the Islamic State to spread its message, attract new adherents, circulate orders from commanders and carry out day-to-day functions, like paying its fighters. A benefit of the administration’s exceedingly rare public discussion of the campaign, officials said, is to rattle the Islamic State’s commanders, who have begun to realize that sophisticated hacking efforts are manipulating their data. Potential recruits might also be deterred if they come to worry about the security of their communications with the militant group. 
新行动的目标是破坏伊斯兰国的一些能力，即传播信息，吸引新的追随者，下达指挥官命令，实现日常运转，比如给圣战分子支付薪酬。有官员表示，美国政府极其罕见地公开谈论这种行动的好处之一，是让伊斯兰国的指挥官们感到紧张，后者已经开始意识到有尖端的黑客行动在篡改他们的数据。如果他们开始担心自己的通讯安全受到美国军方威胁，可能会因此害怕而暂停一些招募行动。
Defense Secretary Ash Carter is among those who have publicly discussed the new mission, but only in broad terms, and this month the deputy secretary of defense, Robert O. Work, was more colorful in describing the effort. 
美国国国防部长(Defense Secretary)阿什·卡特(Ash Carter)是公开谈论过这一新任务的人士之一，不过他只是宽泛地谈及它。本月，国防部副部长罗伯特·O·沃克(Robert O. Work)用更生动的话语描述了这种努力。
“We are dropping cyberbombs,” Work said. “We have never done that before.”
“我们在朝他们扔网络炸弹，”沃克说。“以前我们从没这么做过。”