Let’s play a game. It is called “What if ... .”
我们来玩个游戏，叫“如果……会怎样……。”
As we observe the five-year anniversary of the financial crisis — Lehman Brothers filed for bankruptcy five years ago this coming weekend — the most intriguing hypothetical question about those fateful days is what would have happened had the government bailed out Lehman.
值此金融危机五周年之际——五年前的这个周末，雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)申请破产——关于那决定命运的几天，最令人好奇的假想就是，如果政府当时对雷曼出手相救，又会发生什么情况。
It would have changed the course of history, certainly, but maybe not for the better.
当然，这会改变历史进程，但未必朝着更好的方向。
The collapse of Lehman has long been considered the domino that led to the tumbling of so many others: Merrill Lynch’s hasty sale to Bank of America; the bailout of the American International Group; the breaking of the buck in the money market; the near collapse of Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley that led them to become banking holding companies; and the decision by the government to pursue the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program to bail out the entire banking industry.
雷曼垮台一直以来被视为引发了多米诺效应，导致很多其他公司纷纷崩溃：美林公司(Merrill Lynch)被仓促出售给美国银行(Bank of America)；美国国际集团（American International Group，简称AIG）获得救援；货币市场基金的资产净值跌破一美元；高盛(Goldman Sachs)和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)几近垮台，变为银行控股公司；政府决定执行7000亿美元的问题资产救助计划（Troubled Asset Relief Program，简称TARP）以帮助整个银行业脱离困境。
The decision not to rescue Lehman has been called a mistake and worse. Christine Lagarde, the French finance minister at the time, called it “horrendous.”
不救雷曼的决定曾被认为是错误的，而且是相当糟糕的错误。时任法国财政部长的克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)称，这是一个“可怕的”决定。
No one suggested Lehman deserved to be saved. But the argument has been made that the crisis might have been less severe if it had been saved, because Lehman’s failure created remarkable uncertainty in the market as investors became confused about the role of the government and whether it was picking winners and losers. The government had bailed out Bear Stearns and then nationalized Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac but left Lehman for dead only to turn around and save A.I.G.
没人说过雷曼值得挽救。但提出的观点却是，如果雷曼获救，也许危机就不会那么严重。雷曼的破产为市场带来了严重的不安情绪，投资者对于政府的作用感到迷茫，不知政府是否在插手干预，决定不同机构的存亡。政府此前救助了贝尔斯登(Bear Stearns)，然后对房利美(Fannie Mae)和房地美(Freddie Mac)进行了国有化，仅留下雷曼等死，却回过头又救助了AIG。
Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary at the time, has suggested that the government didn’t have a choice because it lacked the proper tools to take over Lehman without a willing buyer. The British government pulled the plug on Barclays’s 11th-hour bid, a brilliant decision in retrospect.
当时美国财长小亨利·M·保尔森(Henry M. Paulson Jr.)曾暗示，政府别无选择。由于没有买家愿意出手相助，政府缺乏合适手段接管雷曼。英国政府在最后一刻叫停了巴克莱银行的收购计划。回头来看，这确实是个英明的决定。
Mr. Paulson may be right: he didn’t have the tools. But that didn’t stop the government from finding clever ways to bail out A.I.G. and then pursuing strong-arm tactics — like pressing Bank of America to complete its deal for Merrill without disclosing the severity of Merrill’s problems to shareholders — that would have been considered unconscionable had the country not been in the midst of a crisis.
保尔森可能是正确的：他没有手段。但这并未阻止政府巧妙布局，救助AIG，然后再使用强力手段——如强制美国银行完成对美林的收购，同时避免向持股人透露美林问题的严重性——若非国家身陷危机，如此下策会被视为良心的缺失。
Of course, the government was hardly predisposed to participating in a bailout of Lehman, despite assertions that it was prepared to help. The contemporaneous evidence is overwhelming: “looks like Paulson will go to NYC to sort through this Lehman mess ... can’t imagine a scenario where we put in gov’t money ... we shall see,” Jim Wilkinson, Mr. Paulson’s chief of staff, wrote to a recruiter on Sept. 12.
当然，政府虽然放言进行帮助，但却不太情愿参与救助雷曼。同一时期的证据非常有力：“看起来保尔森将亲临纽约来解决雷曼这个乱摊子……想象不出什么样的局面需要政府进行注资……拭目以待吧，”保尔森的幕僚长吉姆·威尔金森(Jim Wilkinson)在 9月12日给一个招聘人员的邮件中写到。
Two days later, he sent another e-mail to Jes Staley, the head of global asset management at JPMorgan Chase: “No way govt money is coming in ... I’m writing the usg coms plan for orderly unwind ... also just did a call with the WH and usg is united behind no money. No way in hell Paulson could blink now.”
两天后，他向摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)全球资产管理部门的负责人杰斯·斯塔利(Jes Staley)又发了一封邮件：“政府不可能出钱……我正在写政府关于有序退出的表态口径……刚和白宫通话，政府部门统一意见了，不出钱。保尔森是打死也不会让步了。”
Had the government stepped in, what would have happened next?
如果当时政府挺身而出，接下来又会发生什么呢？
That’s where the hypothetical guessing game begins. But there are some educated assumptions that can be made. The blowback against a bailout of Lehman would have been fierce. It is often forgotten, but the prevailing wisdom the day after Lehman fell was that its collapse was a good thing. The New York Times wrote in an editorial: “It is oddly reassuring that the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve let Lehman Brothers fail.” (The Wall Street Journal came out on the same side.)
这就是假想游戏开始的地方。但我们完全可以做出一些非常合理的设想。救助雷曼会一石激起千层浪。我们经常忘记，在雷曼破产之后，主流观点认为这是件好事。《纽约时报》(The New York Times)刊登社论：“看到财政部和美联储(Federal Reserve)会坐视雷曼兄弟崩溃，让人有种奇怪的欣慰感。”（《华尔街日报》[The Wall Street Journal]也持类似观点。）
It is also worth noting that most of Wall Street was convinced that the failure of Lehman Brothers would not pose a systemic risk. “I think the market can take the lehman unwind, but there needs to be a bid for Merrill early in the week,” Mr. Staley had e-mailed to Mr. Wilkinson over the weekend.
同样值得注意的是，华尔街的多数人相信雷曼兄弟的失败不会危及系统。“我认为市场能承受雷曼的解散，但在本周内需要有人给美林出个价，”斯塔利在周末给威尔金森的邮件里写到。
In truth, in the fairy-tale version of bailing out Lehman, the next domino, A.I.G., would have fallen even harder. If the politics of bailing out Lehman were bad, the politics of bailing out A.I.G. would have been worse. And the systemic risk that a failure of A.I.G. posed was orders of magnitude greater than Lehman’s collapse.
真相是，在童话版的救助雷曼故事里，作为多米诺牌阵的下一位，AIG会摔得更惨。如果说围绕着救助雷曼的政治斗争是激烈的，那么围绕着救助AIG的政治斗争只会更激烈。而且和雷曼解体相比，AIG垮台对系统造成的风险远超雷曼几个数量级。
Had the Fed stepped in to save A.I.G. at that point anyway, despite the politics, it then becomes increasingly unlikely that the Treasury Department would have been able to muster enough Congressional support to pass TARP. At the very least, the size and scope of it would have been curbed. And remember, even with the stock market and economy in free fall, Congress originally rejected TARP before it reversed itself days later after the markets appeared to be gripped in a death spiral.
如果美联储不顾政治考量，在那一刻出手帮助AIG，那么财政部就益发难以取得足够的国会支持以通过TARP。至少，该计划的规模和覆盖面会大打折扣。请记住，尽管当时股市和经济都开始了自由落体运动，国会起初仍驳回了TARP，后来市场似乎坠入死亡漩涡，TARP才时来运转，得以通过。
As Rahm Emanuel said in 2008: “You never want a serious crisis to go to waste. And what I mean by that, it’s an opportunity to do things you think you could not do before.”
正如拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)2008年所言：“你绝不想浪费一个严重的危机。我的意思是，这是个机会，去做你以前无法做到的事。”
The failure of Lehman may have allowed the government to do more to prop up the economy than it otherwise could. Niall Ferguson, the historian, put it this way a year after the crisis in an opinion article in The Financial Times: “Like the executed British admiral in Voltaire’s famous phrase, Lehman had to die pour encourager les autres — to convince the other banks that they needed injections of public capital, and to convince the legislature to approve them.”
雷曼的垮台使得政府能够给予经济更多支持。历史学家尼尔·弗格森(Niall Ferguson)在危机结束后第二年在《金融时报》的一篇评论文章中这样写道：“雷曼就像是伏尔泰名著中那位被处死的英国海军上将，它必须牺牲才能使其它银行认识到注入公共资本的必要性，也才能说服立法机构批准注资计划。”
Ed Lazear, chief economic adviser to President George W. Bush, told a group of students at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, however, that thinking about the crisis as a series of dominoes may be the wrong analogy.
乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)的经济顾问艾德·拉齐尔(Ed Lazear)却告诉芝加哥大学布斯商学院(the University of Chicago Booth School of Business)的学生们，把危机比为一系列多米诺骨牌效应可能是错误的比喻。
“Under the domino theory of contagion, one domino falls and knocks over the other dominoes, and they all topple, and you’ve got a mess on your hands,” he said. “That’s pretty much what we were thinking in saving Bear Stearns. That looked like the way to go. Unfortunately, the model was not dominoes; it was popcorn.
“根据多米诺理论里的传染性，一个多米诺牌倒下，并碰倒其他多米诺牌，它们全部倒下，你手里就是一个烂摊子，”他说道。“在我们救助贝尔斯登的时候，就是这么想的。而且看起来局势就会那样发展下去。不幸的是，那并不是一个多米诺模式，而是爆米花模式。”
“When you make popcorn, you heat it up in a pan and, as the kernels get hot, they pop. Taking the first kernel to pop out of the pan doesn’t do anything. The other kernels are still getting hot, the heat is on, and they’re going to pop no matter what,” he said.
“做爆米花的时候，你把锅加热，玉米粒受热后爆开了。把第一个爆开的玉米粒从锅里拿走没有任何用。其他玉米粒仍在受热，只要热量在，无论怎样它们都会爆开，”他解释道。
Of course, if this column had more space, there’s always the question of what would have happened if the government had not bailed out Bear Stearns. ...
当然，如果专栏还有足够的地方的话，还有一个问题就是，如果政府没有救助贝尔斯登，又会怎样呢……