LONDON — In his Prison Notebooks, Antonio Gramsci wrote: “The crisis consists precisely in the fact that the old is dying and the new cannot be born; in this interregnum a great variety of morbid symptoms appear.”
伦敦——安东尼奥·葛兰西(Antonio Gramsci)在《狱中札记》(Prison Notebooks)中写道：“危机恰恰在于，旧的东西已经死亡，但新的东西尚不能诞生。在这种空白时期，会出现许多不同的反常现象。”
The world is once again living an interregnum. It is poised between inward-looking old powers and reluctant emergent ones. The post-9/11 era is over; it has bequeathed an exhausted America.
眼下，世界正在再次经历一个空白时期，因为老牌列强专注于自身问题，新兴的大国又无意参与全球事务，这个世界摇摆不定。后9·11时代结束了，留下了一个疲惫不堪的美国。
Morbid symptoms include a dysfunctional United Nations Security Council, a Syria that bleeds, an American economy squeezing its middle class and a Europe that leaves its youth jobless. But does anyone want the superpower’s mantle?
反常现象包括：联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)不能正常行使职能，叙利亚的流血冲突仍在持续，美国经济令中产阶级受到挤压，欧洲年轻人失业率高企。但是有人想接过超级大国的旗帜吗？
According to a survey this year by the Pew Research Center, 83 percent of Americans think the president should concentrate on domestic policy, against 6 percent who believe his priority should be foreign affairs. That is the lowest recorded number for foreign policy concerns since Pew’s survey on national priorities began 15 years ago. In 2007, 39 percent thought the president’s primary focus should be domestic, as compared with 40 percent for foreign.
皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)今年进行的一项调查显示，83％的美国人认为，总统应该把精力集中在国内政策上，6％的人认为他应该优先侧重外交事务。这创下了皮尤调查“国家优先重点”15年以来，人们关心外交政策的最低记录。2007年时，39％的人认为总统的首要重点应该是国内事务，40％的人认为是国外事务。
This is the national mood behind the withdrawal from Iraq, the looming pullback from Afghanistan, the last-minute retreat from military strikes against Syria, and a possibly imminent (and highly desirable) interim deal with Iran on its nuclear program. If there is a single phrase America has taken to heart it comes from Robert Gates, the former defense secretary: “Any future defense secretary who advises the president to again send a big American land army into Asia or into the Middle East or Africa should ‘have his head examined,’ as General MacArthur so delicately put it.”
就是在这种国民情绪的推动下，美国从伊拉克撤军，即将从阿富汗撤军，在最后关头放弃对叙利亚进行军事打击，并可能很快与伊朗在核问题上达成临时（且相当不错的）协议。如果有哪个说法被美国人牢记在了心里，它来自于美国前国防部长罗伯特·盖茨(Robert Gates)：“以后，凡是建议总统把地面部队再次大量派往亚洲、中东或非洲的国防部长，都应该像麦克阿瑟将军(General MacArthur)巧妙指出的那样，去‘检查一下脑袋’。”
The immense toll in lives and treasure of Iraq and Afghanistan — wars the country will try to forget rather than memorialize — explains part of the inward turn. So, too, does a feeling that something is skewed in an economy where for many the relationship between hard work and reward seems lost. But there is something more, a very American pragmatism that has understood the power shift now underway and wants the nation to husband its resources after a reckless decade.
在伊拉克和阿富汗断送的大量生命和财富——美国想要忘记，而非设法去纪念的这些战争——部分解释了美国“向内转”的原因。还有一部分原因是，人们感觉到，某些东西在当前的经济形势下被扭曲了，对于很多人而言，辛勤工作和回报之间，似乎已经失去了关系。但除此之外，还有更多原因：人们已经发现，权力正在转移，因而希望美国在鲁莽行事10年之后，现在能够节约使用资源，这是一种非常美国式的实用主义，
When an exhausted Britain in imperial decline passed the mantle of global power to the United States, the transition was relatively seamless, an affair between cousins. Today America’s travails inspire schadenfreude but nobody much wants the keys to the kingdom.
筋疲力竭的大英帝国在气数衰落时，把全球霸权交给了美国，那是一个相对顺畅无缝的过渡，好像是堂兄弟之间的交接。如今，美国焦头烂额的遭遇让大家幸灾乐祸，但没有人想要接过权杖。
Never have the ambitions of the European Union been so circumscribed. Consumed with internal problems, particularly those of the euro, it has lost coherence. Europe, for the foreseeable future, will spend more time debating its internal architecture than defining its external objectives.
欧盟的雄心从未如此受到局限。内部的问题，特别是那些跟欧元有关的问题，消耗了它的精力，让它已经失去了凝聚力。在可预见的将来，欧洲将花费更多的时间去讨论它的内部架构问题，而不是定义外部目标。
The French-German alliance, the motor of integration, is frayed to the point of near rupture. Germany needs France less and has shed many of its complexes, but history and self-absorption mean it will punch below its weight, doing enough to avert European implosion but not enough to give Europe renewed impulsion. America’s inward turn finds Europe introverted, unable to take a leadership role on any crisis but its own.
作为融合计划发动机的法德联盟，已经脆弱到了接近破裂的程度。德国不再那么需要法国，而且已经抛开了很多相关的情节，但由于历史原因和它专注于自身的态度，德国的影响力无法与其实力处于同一级别。它的所作所为足以防止欧洲崩溃，但不足以让欧洲重新获得动力。美国“向内转”的时候，欧洲也专注在内部事务上，除了自身危机之外，它无法在任何危机中发挥领导作用。
Russia, under Vladimir Putin, is a spoiling power above all, still driven by the notion that, as he once put it, the Soviet Union’s collapse was “the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the century.” Its ambitions lie in turning back the clock.
而普京领导下的俄罗斯，首先是一股破坏力量，仍然受到这样一个概念的推动：援引普京的说法，苏联解体是“那个世纪最大的地缘政治灾难”。俄罗斯的雄心壮志就是将时钟往回调。
China, the heir apparent to nobody’s world, has scarcely a word to say on Syria, less still on Iran. Stability is its watchword, with an eye on full development by midcentury. It still needs America as an offsetting power in Asia. It is heavily invested in the avoidance of any American economic debacle. Peaceful rise means cautious rise. Neither China nor India shows much interest for now in new organizing principles for the world.
中国作为这个没人想要的世界的未来继承人，几乎没有在叙利亚问题上说出任何话，在伊朗问题上就说得更少了。它的口号是“稳定”，着眼于在本世纪中叶达到完全发展阶段。中国仍然需要美国在亚洲作为一种制衡力量。它在避免美国出现经济崩溃上有着巨大利益。和平崛起意味着谨慎的崛起。无论是中国还是印度，眼下对给世界打造新的组织规则都没有表现出太大兴趣。
Perhaps, those principles are now defined by technology, social networks and individual empowerment, forces that lie outside conventional notions of geostrategic power. But this is just another way of saying that the world’s current interregnum is little understood.
也许，这些规则现在由技术、社交网络和个人理想这些地缘政治传统观念之外的因素来定义了。但是，这只是“我们对眼下世界的空白期还知之甚少”的另外一种说法。
It is just over a decade since President George W. Bush lumped North Korea, Iraq and Iran together in an “axis of evil,” an unhappy phrase pregnant with disastrous consequences. The United States has since learned many bitter lessons.
现在距离乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统将朝鲜、伊拉克和伊朗称之为“邪恶轴心”仅仅才过了十多年，那是一个不适当的说法，孕育了灾难性后果。自那时起，美国已经受到了很多惨痛教训。
The importance of the now likely deal with Iran, and of the conversations taking place between Tehran and Washington on a range of subjects, goes well beyond the nuclear dossier. The Iranian revolution was an uprising against Western dominance (just as the nuclear program is above all an assertion of technological independence). For more than three decades, antagonism has prevailed. If the United States and Iran can reach some accommodation, it would be the most powerful signal in a long time of an American willingness to rethink its global strategy in the most volatile area of the world.
可能与伊朗达成的协议，以及德黑兰和华盛顿之间关于一系列问题的对话，远远超出了核问题的范畴。伊朗革命是一场反对西方霸权的革命（就像核计划首先代表的是对技术自主能力的宣示一样）。在30多年的时间中，对立占据了上风。如果美国和伊朗能够达成一些和解，它将是很长一段时间中最有力的信号，表示美国愿意重新考虑自己在世界上最不稳定的地区所采取的全球战略。
Interregnums are dangerous — and doubly morbid if unaccompanied by a readiness to think anew about changed power structures.
空白时期是危险的——如果我们没有准备好用新的方式来思考已经变化的权力结构的话，它还会变得加倍地反常。