BAGHDAD — Al Qaeda’s affiliate in Yemen released a video statement on Tuesday confirming the death of its leader, Nasser al-Wuhayshi, in an American missile strike last week. His death was also confirmed by the Obama administration on Tuesday.
巴格达——基地组织(Al Qaeda)在也门的分支周二发布了一则视频声明，证实其头目纳赛尔·乌海什(Nasser al-Wuhayshi)在美国的导弹袭击中丧生。奥巴马政府周二也确认了此人的死讯。
Mr. Wuhayshi, 38, who had led Qaeda operations in Yemen since 2002 and was also the global extremist network’s second-ranking leader, was killed along with two other operatives, the statement said.
乌海什今年38岁，自2002年开始领导基地组织在也门的行动，他也是这个全球极端主义网络中排名第二的头目。该声明说，他和另外两名组织成员在袭击中丧生。
The group said that its military commander, Qassim al-Raimi, had been chosen as Mr. Wuhayshi’s successor.
该组织称，其军事指挥官卡西姆·莱米(Qassim al-Raimi)已被选为乌海什的继任者。
“Let it be known to the enemies of God that their battle is not only with one person or figure, no matter how important,” a senior Qaeda operative, Khaled Batarfi, said in the statement. “To the infidel America: God has kept alive those who will trouble your life and make you taste the bitterness of defeat.”
“神的敌人应该明白，他们的对手不是某个人，无论那个人有多重要，”基地组织高层哈立德·巴塔费(Khaled Batarfi)在声明中表示。“美国异教徒听着：那些让你们的生活遭受煎熬、让你们品尝失败的人，神会让他们前仆后继。”
The Qaeda statement apparently resolves uncertainty about the fate of Mr. Wuhayshi, but the result of an attack over the weekend on another prominent militant was in doubt. Over the weekend, American F-15s carried out an airstrike in Libya against Mokhtar Belmokhtar, who planned an attack on an Algerian gas plant in 2013 in which 38 foreign workers died. It was unclear whether the missiles had hit their target.
这份声明似乎证明了乌海什确实已经丧生，但上周末袭击的目标还包括另一个知名武装分子，他的情况尚存疑问。上周末，美国F–15飞机在利比亚对穆赫塔尔·贝尔摩塔尔(Mokhtar Belmokhtar)实施了空袭，此人策划了2013年对阿尔及利亚天然气工厂的袭击，导致38外国工人遇难。目前还不清楚导弹是否命中了目标。
The White House statement called Mr. Wuhayshi’s death “a major blow to AQAP, Al Qaeda’s most dangerous affiliate, and to Al Qaeda more broadly.” The term stands for Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. Mr. Wuhayshi oversaw “the group’s plotting against the United States, U.S. interests in the Arabian Peninsula, and those of our allies in the region,” and was responsible for the “deaths of innocent Yemenis and Westerners, including Americans,” the statement said.
白宫发表声明称，乌海什之死是“对基地组织最危险的分支AQAP的一个重大打击，也在更广的范围内对基地组织造成了打击”。AQAP指阿拉伯半岛基地组织。该声明说，乌海什指挥的“组织策划阴谋，攻击美国及其地区盟友在阿拉伯半岛的利益”，此人“导致了无辜的也门人和西方人，包括美国人的死亡”。
Mr. Wuhayshi’s death, the statement added, “removes from the battlefield an experienced terrorist leader, and brings us closer to degrading and ultimately defeating these groups.”
对于乌海什之死，该声明表示，“将这样一名经验丰富的恐怖分子头目从战场上清除，距离瓦解并最终击败这些组织更近了一步。”
Despite the recent deaths of Mr. Wuhayshi and several other senior leaders, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula has grown more formidable in Yemen over the last few months, capitalizing on the civil war there to capture territory and forge new alliances with Sunni tribes to fight the Houthis, a Shiite rebel group from the north that controls large parts of the country.
尽管乌海什和其他几名高级领导人均已在最近丧命，但过去几个月里，阿拉伯半岛基地组织在也门变得更难对付了。它趁该国内战攻城略地，并与逊尼派部落结成新的联盟，以对抗什叶派反叛组织胡塞(Houthi)。来自也门北部的胡塞组织控制着该国大片地区。
In early April, Al Qaeda seized control of Al Mukalla, Yemen’s fifth-largest city, reportedly capturing millions of dollars from the vaults of the central bank. The city, which is in a remote coastal area, has remained relatively untouched by the spreading civil war.
4月初，基地组织夺取了对也门第五大城市穆卡拉的控制权。据报道，该组织从中央银行的金库里取得了数以百万计的美元。穆卡拉地处偏远的沿海地区，相对来说尚未被不断蔓延的内战影响。
The militants’ high profile in Al Mukalla – where they interact openly with residents, and regularly patrol the streets — may have made them more vulnerable. The editor of a local news website, who requested anonymity out of fear of reprisal by the militants, said they had likely been “infilitrated” by spies.
在穆卡拉，武装分子公开与民众互动，并定期在街头巡逻。这种高调可能让他们变得更易受到攻击。当地一家新闻网站的编辑称，他们中可能“渗透”了间谍。因为害怕被武装分子报复，这名编辑要求匿名。
The Qaeda men had “made themselves too visible” in the city, he added. “They are available in mosques, markets and restaurants. Mobile phone sellers say the militants enjoy buying smartphones, like the Samsung Galaxy. In the afternoons, they park their cars outside local restaurants and have their favorite meal – fried chicken,” he said. “It would be easy for anyone to catch them.”
在穆卡拉，基地组织的人“太招摇了，”他接着表示，“清真寺里、市场上、饭店里都能看到他们。卖移动电话的人说武装分子喜欢买三星Galaxy这样的智能手机。下午，他们会把车停在当地饭店的外面，吃他们最喜欢的炸鸡，”他说。“任何人要抓他们都很容易。”