WASHINGTON — The most expensive midterm elections in American history moved toward what could be an inconclusive finish on Monday, the last full day of campaigning before Election Day. Polls show control of the Senate trending Republican but still up for grabs and an angry electorate unclear on what it wants from Washington in Barack Obama’s final two years as president.
华盛顿——在周二的选举日之前的最后一个完整竞选日，美国历史上耗资最高的中期选举的态势或许在朝着一个结果并不明确的方向演变。民调显示，参议院的控制权在向共和党倾斜，但仍需经过激烈争夺，而且愤怒的选民并不清楚他们在贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的最后两年总统任期里希望华盛顿做些什么。
Unlike in previous midterms when the party out of power made strong gains, Republican candidates did not carry a defined platform into the elections of 2014, nor did they campaign on policy specifics. Instead, they have been supported by a bitter electorate that is far less sure of its views than the voters who propelled Republican majorities in both chambers in 1994, gave Congress back to the Democrats in 2006 and swept Republicans to control of the House in 2010.
与以前出现的未入主白宫的政党在中期选举中大有斩获的情形不同，在2014年的选举中，共和党候选人既未祭出鲜明的施政纲领，也未围绕具体的政策问题来竞选。取而代之的是，支持他们的选民心中满含愤恨，却并未抱有清晰的观点，远不及那些让共和党在1994年拿下参众两院多数党地位、民主党2006年夺回国会、共和党2010年夺取众议院控制权的那些选民笃定。
A new poll conducted by NBC News and The Wall Street Journal on Monday found that likely voters favor Republican control of Congress by a single percentage point, 46 percent to 45 percent. The same poll showed voters favoring Republicans 49 percent to 43 percent in 2010 just before Republicans seized control of the House and made large gains in the Senate.
周一公布的NBC新闻频道(NBC News)与《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)联合民调的结果显示，在可能投票的选民中，支持共和党控制国会的人多出一个百分点，为46%对45%。2010年共和党夺取众议院控制权并在参议院收获颇丰的前夕，同样的联合民调显示，共和党与民主党的支持率为49%对43%。
A batch of new state polls show Senate control is anybody’s guess, despite widespread statistical predictions showing Republicans as heavily favored to win a majority. In New Hampshire, a poll by WMUR and the University of New Hampshire gave Senator Jeanne Shaheen, the incumbent Democrat, a two-point lead over Scott Brown, the former Republican senator from Massachusetts.
一批新的州级民调显示，参议院的控制权仍悬而未决，尽管有大量的数据预测，共和党有很好的机会去赢得多数席位。在新罕布什尔州，WMUR电视台与新罕布什尔大学(University of New Hampshire)进行的联合民调给出的数据是，来自民主党的现任参议员珍妮·沙欣(Jeanne Shaheen)领先曾代表马萨诸塞州的共和党前参议员斯科特·布朗(Scott Brown)两个百分点。
A Quinnipiac University poll put the Iowa Senate race between Representative Bruce Braley, a Democrat, and State Senator Joni Ernst, a Republican, dead even, after a Des Moines Register poll showed Ms. Ernst pulling away by seven points just a day before. In Colorado, Quinnipiac showed Representative Cory Gardner, a Republican, leading the incumbent Senator Mark Udall, a Democrat, by two percentage points, keeping that race too close to call as well.
昆尼皮亚克大学(Quinnipiac University)的民调显示，在艾奥瓦州的联邦参议员竞选中，民主党候选人、现任联邦众议员布鲁斯·布雷利(Bruce Braley)与共和党候选人、现任州参议员约尼·厄恩斯特(Joni Ernst)难分伯仲。就在前一天，《得梅因纪事报》(Des Moines Register)的民调还显示，厄恩斯特将对手甩开了七个百分点。在科罗拉多州，昆尼皮亚克大学的民调显示，竞选联邦参议员的共和党联邦众议员科里·加德纳(Cory Gardner)领先目前占据这一席位的民主党人马克·尤德尔(Mark Udall)两个百分点。因此，这场选战也是难解难分。
Polling still points to likely runoffs in Louisiana and Georgia, where no candidate appears capable of mustering more than 50 percent of the vote on Election Day. Between those two races and a late vote count in Alaska, where Senator Mark Begich, the incumbent Democrat, and Dan Sullivan, the Republican, are closely matched, Senate control may not be determined Tuesday night.
在路易斯安那州和乔治亚州，民调结果依然指向第二轮投票的可能性，因为没有任何一名候选人看起来能够在投票日当天凑够半数选票。除了这两场选战之外，阿拉斯加州的计票工作将进行得较晚，而来自民主党的现任参议员马克·贝吉奇(Mark Begich)与其共和党对手丹·沙利文(Dan Sullivan)不相上下。因此，参议院的控制权或许并不能于周二见分晓。
All of the differences in these polls are statistically insignificant, falling within the margins of sampling error.
在这些民调中，所有的领先优势均落到了取样误差的范围之内，因而在统计学上并不显著。
For all the spending and all the nail-biting on races this year, the stakes of the 2014 cycle are not that high. President Obama will still be in office to defend his health care law and other Democratic accomplishments against Republican efforts to reverse them. And Republican leaders in Congress will have to wrestle with political crosscurrents in their own party that could affect their ability to confront the president or to work with him.
尽管今年的竞选花销惊人、选情异常激烈，但2014选举周期涉及的赌注其实并没有那么高。奥巴马总统将依然在位，会捍卫自己推行的医改法案等民主党政治成就，阻挠来自共和党的颠覆企图。国会的共和党领导层将依旧需要与党内相互冲突的政治倾向搏斗，而这种冲突或许会影响他们对抗或携手总统的能力。
Interest in the election is also at a record low. The NBC News-Wall Street Journal poll found that only half of voters said they were interested in the election, down slightly from the 51 percent who were interested in June. In October 2010, 61 percent were interested, up from 51 percent the previous June. The numbers were similar in 2006, before Democrats took back control of Congress.
民众对中期选举的兴趣也创下历史新低。NBC新闻频道与《华尔街日报》的联合民调显示，仅有半数选民表示对此次选举感兴趣，比今年6月的51%略有下滑。2010年10月，感兴趣的选民比例为61%，而当年6月的数据也为51%。2006年民主党夺回国会两院控制权前夕的数据与之类似。
At least three Republicans — Senators Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida — are eyeing runs for their party’s 2016 presidential nomination. They will be tempted to move to the right to appeal to Republican presidential base voters. Mr. Cruz, in an interview with The Washington Post, said over the weekend that a Republican-led Senate should hold Mr. Obama accountable for his policies, and urged his colleagues to aggressively pursue a repeal of the president’s signature health care law.
目前至少有三名共和党人着眼于竞争2016年大选的该党候选人名额。他们均为参议员，分别是来自德克萨斯州的特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)、肯塔基州的兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)，以及佛罗里达州的马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)。为了吸引共和党的大选基础选民，他们将受到往右翼靠拢的诱惑。在周末期间接受《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)采访时，克鲁兹表示，一个共和党领导的参议院应当让奥巴马为自己的政策负责，并且敦促同僚积极推动废除总统的标志性医保法案。
At the same time, many more Republicans elected in the Tea Party wave of 2010 and now getting ready to stand for re-election in Democratic or swing states in 2016 will want to tack to the center. Freshman Republican senators from New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Illinois, Ohio and Missouri could have very different political imperatives than their counterparts running for the White House.
与此同时，在2010年的茶党浪潮中当选的众多共和党人，如今要为在倾向民主党的州或摇摆州里开展2016年的连任竞选而做好准备，而他们将不得不往中间立场转移。比起要角逐白宫的同侪，来自新罕布什尔、宾夕法尼亚、威斯康星、伊利诺伊、俄亥俄和密苏里的共和党新参议员，可以说在政治上拥有迥然不同的当务之急。
“Quite frankly, going into 2016, the Republicans have to make a decision whether they’re in control or not in control,” Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. said in an interview with CNN on Monday. “Are they gonna begin to allow things to happen? Or are they gonna continue to be obstructionists? And I think they’re gonna choose to get things done.”
“坦率地说，在2016年选举之前的这段时间，共和党人必须作出决定，到底要不要控制议程，”副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)周一接受CNN采访时表示。“他们是要开始允许事情向前推进呢？还是要继续处处当绊脚石？我认为他们会选择有所作为。”
If cooperation is what they seek, Republicans and the White House could make common cause in the decades-old quest to overhaul and simplify the tax code. Next year, if the parties cannot come together, deep across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration will return, hitting defense programs favored by Republicans and domestic programs favored by Democrats.
倘若他们的确寻求合作，共和党和白宫可以在拖了几十年的改革、简化税法的议程中找到共同点。明年，假若两党不能达成一致，名为“自动减支”的全方位、大幅度预算削减将卷土重来，同时影响到共和党人青睐的防务项目和民主党人青睐的国内项目。
If resurgent Republicans favor confrontation, a Republican Senate would give them the power to try to send to Mr. Obama policies that they have talked about for years: balancing the budget quickly, converting Medicare into a program that provides vouchers for seniors to purchase private insurance, turning Medicaid into block grants to the states, and shackling regulatory agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency and the new Consumer Financial Protection Board.
如果重获优势的共和党钟意对抗，那么由其掌控的参议院将使得他们有能力尝试把己方谈论了多年的一些政策送到奥巴马面前，包括快速平衡预算、将联邦医疗保险(Medicare)改革为向老年人发放用于购买私人保险的医疗券、将联邦医疗救助(Medicaid)变成下发给州级政府的整笔拨款，以及限制国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)和新成立的消费者金融保护局(Consumer Financial Protection Board)等监管机构的权限。
Republicans would also have to decide how hard they will push to repeal or scale back the president’s health care law.
共和党还得抉择，要做出多大的努力，去废除或削弱总统的医保法案？
Republicans ran a highly localized campaign, focusing on individual races specifically geared toward each state; unlike Republicans in 1994 and Democrats in 2006, they did not offer a sweeping platform of reforms that could serve as their governing blueprint nationally should they win.
共和党人的此次竞选具有相当浓厚的地方色彩，把重心放到了为所有州量身打造每一场选战上。与1994年的共和党和2006年的民主党不同，他们今年并未提供可以作为胜选之后的全国性执政蓝图的综合性改革纲领。
Democrats, meanwhile, are hoping that their multimillion-dollar gamble on a robust ground game — intended to make the off-year electorate more closely resemble a presidential election, in which Democrats typically do better — will pay off. But motivating reliable Democratic constituencies — unmarried women, minorities and young voters — to turn out in a midterm election year has always been more difficult than in presidential election years, and perhaps even more so in a climate where the president’s approval ratings hover in the low-40s.
与此同时，民主党则寄望于他们在其强劲的地方组织能力上撒下的大笔资金将能收到成效。民主党通常在大选时表现更佳，而这些地方性活动意在让本次选举的选民构成更接近于大选年。然而，比起大选年，动员稳定的民主党选民——未婚女性、少数族裔和年轻人——在中期选举的年份出来投票，一直较为艰难。考虑到总统的支持率徘徊在40%出头的大环境，要做到这一点恐怕是难上加难。
Early voting results do indicate that Democrats in some states, particularly in Iowa and North Carolina, are doing better than they did in 2010.
提前投票的结果的确显示，在部分州，尤其是艾奥瓦和北卡罗来纳，民主党的表现优于2010年。