WASHINGTON — Attorney General Jeff Sessions was questioned for several hours last week as part of the special counsel investigation, and the former F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, was interviewed by the office last year, according to two people briefed on the meeting.
华盛顿——上周，作为特别检察官调查的一部分，司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)接受了该检察官办公室几个小时的问话，据两名与会者透露，前联邦调查局(FBI)局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)也于去年接受了这个办公室的问询。
The interview with Mr. Sessions marked the first time that investigators for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, are known to have questioned a member of President Trump’s cabinet.
根据目前已知的情况，与塞申斯的面谈是特别检察官罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)的调查人员首次问询特朗普内阁成员。
The interview with Mr. Comey focused on a series of memos he wrote about his interactions with Mr. Trump that unnerved Mr. Comey. In one memo, Mr. Comey said that Mr. Trump had asked him to end the F.B.I.’s investigation into the former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn.
对科米的问询重点在他所写的一系列备忘录之上，其内容是他同特朗普的来往，以及科米对这些往来感到的不安。他在其中一份备忘录中写道，特朗普要求他结束FBI对前国家安全顾问迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)的调查。
After the president’s request was revealed publicly, the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, appointed Mr. Mueller as the special counsel to lead the Russia investigation and examine whether the president obstructed justice.
在总统的要求被公开披露后，司法部副部长罗德·J·罗森斯坦(Rod J. Rosenstein)任命穆勒为特别检察官，领导同俄罗斯相关的调查，并调查总统是否妨碍了司法公正。
The disclosure about Mr. Comey’s interview came hours after the Justice Department spokeswoman, Sarah Isgur Flores, confirmed that the interview with Mr. Sessions occurred. Mr. Sessions was accompanied by the longtime Washington lawyer Chuck Cooper to the interview.
科米接受问询一事，是在司法部发言人莎拉·伊丝格尔·弗洛雷斯(Sarah Isgur Flores)证实对塞申斯的问询几小时后披露的。塞申斯在华盛顿资深律师恰克·库珀(Chuck Cooper)陪同下接受了问询。
The attorney general announced in March that he had recused himself from all matters related to the 2016 election, including the Russia inquiry. The disclosure came after it was revealed that Mr. Sessions had not told Congress that he met twice with the Russian ambassador to the United States at the time, Sergey I. Kislyak, during the campaign.
司法部长曾于去年3月宣布回避同2016年大选有关的一切事务，包括关于俄罗斯的调查。当时塞申斯被曝出没有向国会透露他在竞选期间曾两次与俄罗斯驻美大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)会晤，之后他宣布了回避的决定。
Mr. Sessions, an early supporter of Mr. Trump’s presidential run, had been among a small group of senior campaign and administration officials whom Mr. Mueller had been expected to interview.
塞申斯是特朗普竞选总统的早期支持者，外界预计穆勒将会问询一小批特朗普的高级竞选官员和政府官员，塞申斯是其中之一。
Mr. Mueller’s interest in Mr. Sessions shows how the president’s own actions helped prompt a broader inquiry. What began as a Justice Department counterintelligence investigation into Russia’s election interference is now also an examination of whether Mr. Trump tried to obstruct the inquiry, and the nation’s top law enforcement officer is a witness in the case.
穆勒对塞申斯的兴趣表明，总统自身的行为促成了更广泛的调查。调查一开始只是司法部对俄罗斯干预大选的反间谍调查，现在则同时开始调查特朗普是否试图阻挠该调查，而这个国家的最高执法官员是此案的证人。
For Mr. Mueller, Mr. Sessions is a key witness to two of the major issues he is investigating: the campaign’s possible ties to the Russians and whether the president tried to obstruct the Russia investigation.
穆勒目前正在调查两个主要问题：俄罗斯人与总统竞选可能存在的关联，以及总统是否试图阻挠关于俄罗斯的调查。塞申斯是这两个问题的关键证人。
Mr. Mueller can question Mr. Sessions about his role as the head of the campaign’s foreign policy team. Mr. Sessions was involved in developing Mr. Trump’s position toward Russia and met with Russian officials, including the ambassador.
穆勒可以针对塞申斯作为总统竞选外交政策团队领导人的角色，对他展开质询。塞申斯参与了特朗普对俄立场的制定，并会见了包括基斯利亚克大使在内的俄罗斯官员。
Along with Mr. Trump, Mr. Sessions led a March 2016 meeting at the Trump International Hotel in Washington, where one of the campaign’s foreign policy advisers, George Papadopoulos, pitched the idea of a personal meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin. Mr. Papadopoulos pleaded guilty in October to lying to federal authorities about the nature of his contacts with the Russians and agreed to cooperate with the special counsel’s office.
2016年3月，塞申斯与特朗普一起在华盛顿的特朗普国际酒店主持了一次会议，会上，竞选中的外交政策顾问乔治·帕帕佐普洛斯(George Papadopoulos)提出了让特朗普和普京举行私下会晤的想法。去年10月，帕帕佐普洛斯认罪，承认没有向联邦当局如实陈述自己与俄罗斯人接触的性质，并同意与特别检察官办公室合作。
As attorney general, Mr. Sessions was deeply involved in the firing of the former F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, and the president has repeatedly criticized Mr. Sessions publicly and privately for recusing himself from the Russia investigation.
作为司法部长，塞申斯深深地卷入了前FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米遭解雇一事。总统曾在公开和私下多次批评塞申斯对俄罗斯相关调查的回避。
When Mr. Trump learned in March that Mr. Sessions was considering whether to recuse himself, the president had the White House’s top lawyer, Donald F. McGahn II, lobby Mr. Sessions to remain in charge of the Russia investigation.
特朗普在3月得知塞申斯正在考虑是否要回避该调查后，让白宫首席律师唐纳德·F·麦格恩二世(Donald F. McGahn II)游说塞申斯继续主持俄罗斯调查。
Mr. Sessions instead followed the guidance of career prosecutors at the Justice Department, who advised him that he should not be involved with the investigation. When Mr. Trump was told of this, the president erupted in anger, saying he needed an attorney general to protect him.
塞申斯没有听从特朗普的建议，而是接受了司法部职业检察官的指导，他们建议他不应参与调查。特朗普得知此事后大为光火，说他需要一位能够保护自己的司法部长。
After Mr. Mueller was appointed in May, Mr. Trump again erupted at Mr. Sessions and Mr. Sessions offered to resign. Several days later, Mr. Trump rejected Mr. Sessions’s offer.
去年5月穆勒接受任命后，特朗普再次对塞申斯发火，塞申斯提出过辞职。几天后，特朗普拒绝了塞申斯的辞职。
Mr. Trump insisted to reporters in the Oval Office on Tuesday afternoon that he was not troubled that Mr. Sessions had spoken to Mr. Mueller’s investigators.
周二下午，特朗普在椭圆形办公室对记者坚称，他并不认为塞申斯曾与穆勒的调查人员交谈。
“No, not at all,” Mr. Trump said.
“没有，根本没有，”特朗普说。
The president was also asked whether Christopher A. Wray, the director of the F.B.I. who replaced Mr. Comey, had threatened to resign because Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions were pressuring him to clear the bureau of loyalists to Mr. Comey, as reported by the website Axios late on Monday.
记者还询问总统，取代科米的FBI局长克里斯托弗·A·雷(Christopher A. Wray)是否曾经威胁辞职，因为特朗普和塞申斯逼迫他清洗联邦调查局内忠于科米的人，该消息是由Axios网站于周一晚些时候报道的。
“He didn’t at all,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Wray. Asked again, the president added: “He did not even a little bit. Nope. He’s going to do a good job.”
“他根本没有，”特朗普谈到雷时这样说，并补充道：“他一丁点这个念头都没有。不。他会做得很好。”
Mr. Wray’s tenure has been fraught as the president has repeatedly fanned suspicion about whether the F.B.I.’s work is politically motivated. But he stopped short of threatening to quit, a person familiar with the events said. Mr. Wray told Mr. Sessions that he needed to move at his own pace to make changes within the F.B.I., and that if the president and the attorney general wanted replacements made more quickly, someone else would have to do it, the person said.
雷在上任后忧心忡忡，因为总统一再表达对FBI工作的怀疑，认为其背后有政治动机。但是一名熟悉内情的人士说，他还没有到威胁辞职的地步。这位人士称，雷告诉塞申斯，他需要按照自己的进度在FBI内部进行调整，如果总统和司法部长希望他更快地完成人事更迭，那应该让其他人来做这份工作。
Two weeks ago, Mr. Mueller subpoenaed Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, to testify before a grand jury. Mr. Mueller is expected to forgo the grand jury appearance for now and will instead have his investigators interview Mr. Bannon in the coming weeks.
两周前，穆勒曾传唤特朗普的前首席策略师史蒂芬·K·班农(Stephen K. Bannon)在大陪审团前作证。预计穆勒暂时会放弃让班农在大陪审团前出庭，并在未来几周内让他的调查人员问询他。