As a rebel fighter shined his flashlight onto a clump of blankets and clothes scattered around the concrete basement floor, I wondered if this was where my friend Sultan had spent the last moments of his life. A goofy, gap-toothed 22-year-old who worked for a local fixer, he was part of a group of Syrian activists, journalists and rebel fighters who had been arrested by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria and taken to this makeshift prison in the basement of a former hospital.
一名反对派武装人员用手电筒照亮水泥地下室的地面，光线打在地面上散落的一团团毯子和衣物上。我思忖着，我的朋友苏尔坦(Sultan)生命中的最后时刻，是不是就是在这里度过的。苏尔坦是个傻愣愣的22岁青年，牙齿中间有宽大的缝隙，他为当地的一个能人工作。伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）逮捕过一群活动人士、记者和反对派武装分子，把他们关押在了这座曾是医院的建筑的地下室里，其中就包括苏尔坦。
The building had served as the Sunni extremist group’s headquarters in Aleppo, Syria’s largest city, but now the pitch-dark corridors were deserted. By the stairs, we found a long cable of copper wires taped together. One of the rebels picked it up and mimicked a whipping gesture — former prisoners who were held here reported being tortured. Farther down was a room that served as a cafeteria, with signs in English attesting to the presence of foreign jihadists among ISIS’s ranks. “Fear Allah! Remember that he is watching you so please do not waste food and clean up after you have eaten,” read one. Another advised “brothers who want to receive their families from outside Syria” to coordinate with the “Mujahedeen Services Office.”
这里曾是逊尼派极端分子组织ISIS在叙利亚最大城市阿勒颇的总部，然而如今漆黑的走廊已经空无一人。在楼梯边上，我们发现了用胶带粘在一起的一条长长的铜缆。一名反对派士兵拿起铜缆，模仿了抽打的姿势——据报道被关押在这里的囚犯曾受到拷打。再向前走，是用作食堂的房间，那里的英文标语表明，ISIS的作战人员中存在外国圣战分子。一则标语用英文写道：“畏惧安拉！谨记他在凝视，不要浪费粮食，餐后要清理餐桌。”另一条则建议“兄弟们，如果想接收身在叙利亚以外的家人”，请与“圣战人员服务处”联系。
ISIS began as the Iraqi affiliate of Al Qaeda but split off at the beginning of this year over its ambitions to expand into Syria and establish itself as a new caliphate. After its stunning takeover of much of western Iraq last month, it now calls itself simply the Islamic State.
ISIS最初是基地组织(Al Qaeda)在伊拉克的分支，但今年年初因为志在拓展到叙利亚，并将自身塑造为一个新的哈里发国，而从基地组织脱离了出来。在上个月出人意料地夺取伊拉克西部大片区域之后，现在它开始直接自称“伊斯兰国”(Islamic State)。
But ISIS is gone from Aleppo, having been forced out by local Syrian rebels in January. This military reversal, one of the group’s few, highlights the dilemma facing the West: Its best potential allies against ISIS are other Sunni Islamists.
不过，今年1月，在叙利亚当地反对派武装的驱逐下，ISIS已经撤离阿勒颇。这是ISIS少有的几次挫败，这样的挫败显示出西方面临的尴尬：对抗ISIS的潜在盟友是其他逊尼派伊斯兰主义者。
The fighters who accompanied me during a weeklong visit to Aleppo in mid-June were members of the Islamic Front, a rebel coalition dominant in the city and much of northern Syria. The Islamic Front is a fierce and effective opponent of ISIS but also, in its Islamist platform and indirect connections with Al Qaeda, a far cry from the “appropriately vetted elements of the moderate Syrian armed opposition” for whom the Obama administration recently requested $500 million in military training and funding.
今年6月在阿勒颇探访的一周时间里，陪同我的是伊斯兰阵线(Islamic Front)的成员，这是一个反对派武装组成的联盟，在阿勒颇及叙利亚北部多数地区处于主导地位。在面对ISIS时，伊斯兰阵线是个强大而高效的对手，然而该组织持伊斯兰派立场，并且与基地组织有着间接的关系，它与奥巴马政府最近申请的5亿美元军事训练开支和资金所欲协助的对象，即那些“叙利亚武装反对派中，经过仔细核查的温和派分子”大相径庭。
ISIS’s abandoned headquarters in Aleppo are just across from another large building that serves as the base for Tawhid Brigade, one of the largest of the seven rebel groups that joined together in November to form the Islamic Front. ISIS had been present in opposition-held Aleppo since the beginning of 2013, but by the end of the year tensions with rebel groups had reached a crisis. Considering itself a sovereign state, ISIS was refusing to accept mediation for any dispute, and it had taken to kidnapping those it considered to be critics or enemies, including people who worked with foreign journalists, like Sultan.
被遗弃的ISIS驻阿勒颇总部，正对着塔希德旅(Tawhid Brigade)的基地所在的另一座大楼。塔希德旅是共同加入伊斯兰阵线的七个反叛组织中规模较大的一个。从2013年初开始，由反对派控制的阿勒颇就有ISIS的存在了，但是到了年底，反对派团体之间的紧张关系触发了危机。ISIS认为自己是一个主权国家，拒绝就任何争端接受调停，甚至还绑架过那些被它认为是批评者或敌人的人，包括为外国记者工作过的人，比如苏尔坦。
On Jan. 7, ISIS carried out a surprise attack on Tawhid Brigade’s headquarters. It was held off. The next day, Tawhid Brigade forces from around the city counterattacked and surrounded the hospital. “We cut them off and prevented them from bringing any support,” said the commander who led the offensive and who goes by the nom de guerre of Abu Assad.
今年1月7日，ISIS对塔希德旅的总部发动突然袭击，但后者顶住了攻势。第二天，塔希德旅下属的部队从城市各处发起反击并包围了这座医院。化名阿布·阿萨德(Abu Assad)的指挥官领导了那次的战斗，他说：“我们切断了他们的路线，让他们叫不来任何增援。”
Around 3 a.m., the ISIS fighters trapped inside the hospital asked to be allowed to leave the city, and Abu Assad, not wanting further bloodshed, agreed. When he and his men searched the hospital at first light, they discovered that ISIS had massacred its captives. “We found a group of bodies every ten meters,” said Abu Assad. Most of them had been shot in the head while bound. “They were real revolutionaries, journalists, doctors. If we had known what ISIS had done, we wouldn’t have let them escape alive.”
下午大约3点，被困在医院内的ISIS武装人员要求让他们离开这座城市，不想再有流血的阿布·阿萨德同意了。他和手下天一亮就进入医院搜查，发现ISIS已经屠杀了那些被关押者。“我们每隔十米就能找到一堆尸体，”阿布·阿萨德说。大多数人都被捆绑着，头部中枪。“他们是真正的革命者、记者、医生。如果我们知道ISIS干了这种事，肯定不会让他们活着溜走的。”
Not long after the battle, half a globe away, I watched footage of its aftermath that rebels had recorded and uploaded to YouTube, and recognized Sultan among the corpses.
战斗过后不久，我在地球另一边看到了事发后的场景，反叛分子拍摄了视频并上传到YouTube，我在尸首中认出了苏尔坦。
The battle against ISIS in Aleppo is part of a larger conflict that started at the beginning of this year, as rebel groups across the northern provinces of Idlib and Aleppo — including the powerful Syrian Al Qaeda affiliate, Jabhat al-Nusra — fought a pitched battle to expel ISIS. The face-off left the Islamic Front pre-eminent. It controls the key border crossing with Turkey at Azaz and, with its estimated 50,000 to 60,000 fighters, is thought to be the largest and most militarily potent rebel alliance in Syria.
在阿勒颇和ISIS的武装冲突，是今年初开始的一场大规模冲突的一部分，在北部省份伊德利卜和阿勒颇活动的反叛组织——包括实力强劲的叙利亚基地组织分支努斯拉阵线(Jabhat al-Nusra)——发起了驱逐ISIS的会战。伊斯兰阵线在那场对决中表现出众。它在阿扎兹控制了重要的土耳其边境口岸，拥有约5到6万名战斗人员，被认为是叙利亚规模最大、军事实力最强的反叛联盟。
The Islamic Front is entirely Syrian in leadership, and its central goal is overthrowing President Bashar al-Assad — good credentials in the eyes of Western governments hoping to roll back ISIS without strengthening the Syrian regime. Many of the group’s most powerful members — including Tawhid Brigade and one of the largest factions fighting in the Damascus suburbs, Jaish al-Islam — are not particularly ideological, and were once allied with the Western-backed Free Syrian Army.
伊斯兰阵线完全由叙利亚人领导，它的核心目标就是推翻总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)——对于想击退ISIS同时又不想强化叙利亚政权的西方政府来说，这是个优点。组织内最强大的几个成员——包括塔希德旅以及在大马士革郊区战斗的第一大派别伊斯兰军(Jaish al-Islam)——意识形态色彩并不浓重，曾经和西方支持的叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)结盟。