WASHINGTON — Key congressional leaders agreed Thursday on legislation to give President Barack Obama special authority to finish negotiating one of the world's largest trade accords, starting a rare battle that aligns the president with Republicans against a broad coalition of Democrats.
华盛顿——国会主要领导人本周四同意立法，让奥巴马总统拥有特别授权，以完成世界上最大规模的贸易协定之一的谈判。这也为一场罕见的争斗拉开了序幕：总统与共和党人团结一致，与民主党人率领的广泛联盟针锋相对。
In what is sure to be one of the toughest fights of his last 19 months in office, the “fast track” bill allowing the White House to pursue its planned Pacific trade deal also heralds a divisive fight within the Democratic Party, one that could spill into the 2016 presidential campaign.
可以肯定的是，这是奥巴马过去19个月工作中最艰难的战斗之一。这项“快车道”法案既可以让白宫推进其计划中的太平洋贸易协议，也预示着民主党内部会出现分裂，乃至于对2016年的总统竞选造成影响。
With committee votes planned next week, liberal senators such as Sherrod Brown of Ohio are demanding to know Hillary Clinton's position on the bill to give the president so-called trade promotion authority, or TPA.
该法案将授予总统所谓的贸易促进权，简称TPA。委员会计划在下周举行投票，俄亥俄州谢罗德·布朗(Sherrod Brown)这样的自由派参议员正在要求希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)表明对该法案的立场。
Trade unions, environmentalists and Latino political organizations — potent Democratic constituencies — also quickly lined up in opposition, arguing that past trade pacts have failed to deliver on their promise and that the latest effort will harm American workers and the middle class rather than helping them.
工会、环保主义者和拉丁裔政治组织是民主党强有力的支持者，他们迅速表达了对该法案的反对，声称过去的贸易协定都未兑现承诺，而这次的最新行动将损害而不是增进美国工人和中产阶级的利益。
The deal was struck by Sens. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the Finance Committee chairman; Ron Wyden of Oregon, the committee's ranking Democrat; and Rep. Paul D. Ryan, R-Wis., the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee.
达成这笔交易的是参议院金融委员会(Finance Committee)主席、犹他州共和党参议员奥林·哈奇(Orrin Hatch)；该委员会资深民主党人、俄勒冈州参议员罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)，以及众议院筹款委员会(House Ways and Means Committee)主席、威斯康星州共和党众议员保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)。
It would give Congress the power to vote on the more encompassing 12-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership once it is completed, but would deny lawmakers the chance to amend what would be the largest trade deal since the North American Free Trade Agreement of 1994. A separate trade accord with Europe is also in the works.
它将给赋予国会权力，在更广泛的12国跨太平洋伙伴关系（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）完成之后对其进行投票，但没有给立法者提供修改这个协定的机会。TPP将是自1994年北美自由贸易协定（North American Free Trade Agreement，简称 NAFTA）以来的最大的一个贸易协定。与欧洲之间签订一份单独贸易协定的工作也在进行之中。
The largest beneficiaries of any trade deal would be business. While supporters have promised broad gains for American consumers and the economy, the clearest winners of the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement would be U.S. agriculture, along with technology and pharmaceutical companies, insurers and many large manufacturers that say they could also expand United States' exports to the other 11 nations in Asia and South America that are involved.
在任何贸易协议中，最大受益者都是企业。虽然该协定的支持者们许诺说，它将广泛惠及美国消费者和经济，但TPP最明显的赢家将是美国的农业，以及科技和制药公司、保险企业和很多大型制造商，他们说TPP有助于扩大美国向其他11个亚洲和南美成员国的出口。