WASHINGTON — The Obama administration on Tuesday leveled sanctions against 12 Russians for human rights abuses including the detention and death of a celebrated lawyer who the United States says sought to expose fraud by Russian officials.
华盛顿——周二，奥巴马政府对12名俄罗斯人实施了制裁，理由是他们侵犯了人权，其中有些人曾羁押了一位著名律师并致其死亡。美方说，这名律师曾设法揭露俄罗斯官员的欺诈罪行。
The sanctions were announced under a 2012 law named for the lawyer, Sergei L. Magnitsky, who died in detention in November 2009 and whose case has become a symbol of human rights abuses in Russia.
宣布此次制裁的依据是美国在2012年通过的一部法案，该法案以前述律师谢尔盖·L·马格尼茨基(Sergei L. Magnitsky)的名字命名。马格尼茨基于2009年11月在羁押中死去，他的案子已成为俄罗斯侵犯人权状况的一个标志。
The United States imposed sanctions on 18 Russians under the Magnitsky Act in April 2013, and American lawmakers and human rights activists had expected the Obama administration to add to that list in December. 
2013年4月，美国根据《马格尼茨基法案》(Magnitsky Act)对18名俄罗斯人实施了制裁，美国议员和人权活动人士曾预计奥巴马政府会在去年12月扩充制裁名单。
Administration officials were more tight-lipped about the sanctions imposed on Tuesday than they had been about those made this year in response to Russia’s annexation of Crimea and to the crisis in Ukraine. In contrast to Ukraine-related announcement, the Obama administration did not hold conference calls with reporters.
白宫官员对周二实施的制裁三缄其口，显得比今年美国为应对俄罗斯吞并克里米亚及乌克兰危机而采取制裁时更谨慎。奥巴马政府没有召开记者电话会议，这和公布与乌克兰相关的制裁声明时的情形形成了对比。
Ten of the individuals named on Tuesday were linked to the Magnitsky case, the Treasury Department said. They include Larisa Litvinova, Dmitry Kratov and Alexandra Gauss, three doctors who worked at detention centers who “withheld appropriate medical care” for Mr. Magnitsky, according to the department. The department also imposed sanctions on Igor B. Alisov, a Russian judge who oversaw the posthumous trial of Mr. Magnitsky for tax evasion.  
财政部(Treasury Department)表示，周二被点到的被制裁者中，有10人和马格尼茨基案有关。据财政部透露，10人中包括三名在看守所工作的医生拉里莎·利特维诺娃(Larisa Litvinova)、德米特里·克拉托夫(Dmitry Kratov)和亚历山大·高斯(Alexandra Gauss)，他们“拒绝”给马格尼茨基提供“适当的治疗”。财政部还对伊戈尔·B·阿利索夫(Igor B. Alisov)实施了制裁，他是一名俄罗斯法官，负责在马格尼茨基死后对其逃税案进行审判。
The Treasury Department also cited four individuals it said were involved in the “criminal conspiracy” uncovered by Mr. Magnitsky.
财政部还提到，有四人参与了被马格尼茨基揭发的“犯罪阴谋”。
The sanctions include a freeze on any assets the people might have in the United States and a ban on travel visas.
此次制裁包括冻结这些人可能在美国拥有的所有资产，并禁止给他们签发赴美签证。
David J. Kramer, the president of Freedom House, a human rights group, said the White House had resisted in December expanding the list of individuals under sanctions because the move would have come at a time when the Obama administration was still seeking to maintain a good working relationship with the Kremlin.
人权组织“自由之家”(Freedom House)的主席戴维·J·克雷默(David J. Kramer)表示，去年12月，白宫曾拒绝扩大制裁名单，因为那个时候，奥巴马政府依然在力图与俄罗斯维持一个良好的工作关系。
Despite the delay, Mr. Kramer said that he was “rather pleased with the list.”
虽然制裁被延后出台，克雷默还是表示，他“对这份名单感到相当满意。”
Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman, denied that there had been a delay. “We add new names to the list as credible information becomes available,” she said in a statement.
美国国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)否认了制裁名单被延后出台。“我们一获得可靠的信息，就把新名字添加到了名单里。”她在一则声明里说。
In addition to the 12 individuals named Tuesday, Mr. Kramer said that he had heard that Aleksandr I. Bastrykin, a close aide to President Vladimir V. Putin, was on a classified list of individuals that had been under Magnitsky Act sanctions. Administration officials declined to comment on suggestions that Mr. Bastrykin was on such a list.
除了周二被点到的12个人，克雷默表示，他听说俄罗斯总统的亲密助手亚历山大·I·巴斯特雷金(Aleksandr I. Bastrykin)已被列入根据《马格尼茨基法案》拟定的一份机密制裁名单中。奥巴马政府官员拒绝对巴斯特雷金被列入这样一份名单的说法做出评论。
Mr. Magnitsky died in pretrial detention in Moscow when he was 37.  He was found guilty of tax evasion at his posthumous trial.
马格尼茨基在莫斯科接受审前羁押期间去世，时年37岁。对他的死后审判裁定他逃税罪名成立。