LEITH, N.D. — The bearded man with thinning, gray-and-bleach-blond hair flapping down his neck first appeared in this tiny agricultural town last year, quietly and inconspicuously roaming the crackly dirt roads.
北达科他州利斯——这个留着胡子的男子是去年第一次出现在这个农业小镇上的，一头染成金色但已灰白的头发飘至颈间，在咯吱作响的泥路上悄悄地、不起眼地游荡着。
Nettie Ketterling thought nothing of it when he came into her bar to charge his cellphone in an outlet beneath the mounted head of a mule deer. To Kenneth Zimmerman, the man was just another customer, bringing his blue Dodge Durango in for repairs. Bobby Harper did not blink when the man appeared in front of his house and asked him if he had any land to sell. And the mayor, Ryan Schock, was simply extending a civic courtesy when he swung by the man’s house to introduce himself.
当他走进妮蒂·凯特琳(Nettie Ketterling)的酒吧，用安在一个黑尾鹿头标本下面的插座给自己的手机充电时，凯特琳根本就没把他放在心上。对肯尼斯·齐默尔曼(Kenneth Zimmerman)而言，这名男子只是又一位开着蓝色道奇杜兰戈来这里维修的顾客。当这名男子出现在博比·哈珀(Bobby Harper)门前，问他是否有地要卖时，他连眼都没眨一下。而市长瑞安·朔克(Ryan Schock)途经他家介绍自己时，也只是向他致以礼节性的问候。
Their new neighbor, they thought, was just another person looking to get closer to the lucrative oil fields in western North Dakota known as the Bakken.
他们认为，他们的新邻居，不过是指望进一步靠近北达科他州西部高产的巴肯(Bakken)油田的又一名居民而已。
But all that changed last week.
然而，这种看法在上周发生了改变。
The Southern Poverty Law Center and The Bismarck Tribune revealed that the man, Paul Craig Cobb, 61, has been buying up property in this town of 24 people in an effort to transform it into a colony for white supremacists.
据南部贫困法律中心(Southern Poverty Law Center)和《俾斯麦论坛报》(The Bismarck Tribune)披露，这名男子名叫保罗·克雷格·科布(Paul Craig Cobb)，现年61岁，他一直在购买本市24名居民的房产，为的是把这里变成白人至上主义者的聚居区。
In the past two years, Mr. Cobb, a longtime proselytizer for white supremacy who is wanted in Canada on charges of promoting hatred, has bought a dozen plots of land in Leith (pronounced Leeth) and has sold or transferred ownership of some of them to a couple of like-minded white nationalists.
科布多年来一直是白人至上主义宣教者，因为被控激化种族仇恨在加拿大遭到通缉。过去两年里，他在利斯购买了十多块地，通过出售或产权转移，他已把其中的一些地转给了一些和他志趣相投的白人民族主义者。
He is using Craigslist and white power message boards to entice others in the movement to take refuge in Leith, about two hours southwest of Bismarck. On one board, he detailed his vision for the community — an enclave where residents fly “racialist” banners, where they are able to import enough “responsible hard core” white nationalists to take control of the town government, where “leftist journalists or antis” who “come and try to make trouble” will face arrest.
他正在利用分类广告网站Craiglist和白人权力(white power)留言板吸引同道中人到利斯避难，利斯位于俾斯麦的西南方，距离俾斯麦有两个小时车程。在一个留言板上，他详述了自己对这个社区的设想——这是一片飞地，这里的居民悬挂着“种族主义者”的横幅，他们可以引入足够多的“负责任的死硬派”民族主义者来控制市政府，“到这里试图制造麻烦”的“左派记者或反对者”将面临被逮捕的后果。
The revelations have riveted this community and the surrounding area, drawing a range of reactions from disgust to disbelief to curiosity.
信息的披露吸引了当地社区和周围地区的注意力，引发了各式各样的反应，从厌恶、怀疑到好奇不一而足。
“If that man wanted to live in Leith and be a good neighbor and be decent and not push his thoughts on the people, then he could live there,” said Arlene Wells, 82, a farmer and local historian. “But to come in and want to change everything and be the big dog — no. I don’t like bulldogs.”
本地的历史学家、82岁的农场主阿琳·韦尔斯(Arlene Wells)说，“如果这个人想在利斯居住，想成为一名好邻居，想表现得体、不把他的想法强加于人，那么他可以在这里居住。可是，如果他想来这里改变所有的一切、成为大人物——那可没门。我不喜欢横行乡里的人。”
It is all people are talking about, in bars and in their homes, at funerals and at church. They are poking around on the Web to read Mr. Cobb’s positions for themselves. A stream of cars creep through the streets where horses occasionally trot, their passengers hoping to catch a glimpse of some action or take a peek at Mr. Cobb’s peeling, two-story clapboard home. Sheriff’s cars, too, are making more rounds.
这就是在酒吧、家中、葬礼上和教堂里所有人谈论的话题。人们在网上四处翻找，了解科布对他们的立场。车流穿过偶尔有马匹跑过的街道，车上的人希望能够瞥见科布的一些行动，或者偷偷看一眼科布那栋墙皮脱落的二层住所。警长的车也在进行更多的巡逻。
This is not how residents wanted Leith to get back on the map. Founded in 1909, the town bustled in the middle of the century, a regional center for festivals, movies and skating. The population began slipping after peaking at 174 in 1930, but the death knell was the closing of the railroad some 30 years ago. Though the 2010 census said the population is 16, Mr. Schock puts it at 24, and the Leith Bar is the only one of the five remaining buildings on Main Street still open. Most lots are empty and overgrown, laden with high-flying grasshoppers, in this town that sits in a bowl surrounded by wheat and sunflower fields.
居民们可不想让利斯以这种方式重新出现在人们的视线中。利斯创建于1909年，在上世纪中叶成为一个繁忙喧嚣的地方，它是本地区的节日、电影和溜冰中心。1930年，本地人口升至顶峰，达到174人，之后就开始下滑，不过，敲响丧钟的是大约30年前的铁路关闭一事。2010年的人口普查显示这里有16名居民，但朔克给出的人口数量是24，利斯酒吧是主街上五栋残留的建筑中唯一依然开放的一个。在这个四面被小麦和向日葵田环绕的低洼小镇，许多地块都空空如也、杂草蔓生，到处是高飞的蚂蚱。
Mr. Cobb happened upon the community, he said, through an ad for the home he eventually bought on Craigslist. He paid a total of about $8,600 for the house and 12 plots, he said, making his first purchases in 2011. He moved here in May 2012, he said, after fleeing Canada in 2010 to avoid the criminal charges. He spent some time in Montana, before coming to North Dakota to find work in the oil patch. He said he lost his construction job last week after the story broke.
科布说，他通过Craigslist上的一则住房广告，偶然发现了这个社区，最后他购买了广告上的房产。他说，他在2011年第一次购买此地的房产，他的房子和12块地一共花了他8600美元左右（约合5.26万元人民币）。他说他在2012年5月搬到此地，此前为了躲避犯罪指控，他于2010年逃离了加拿大。他曾在蒙大拿渡过一段时间，后来来到北达科他州，在油田找到了一份工作。他说，在他的故事被曝光之后，他于上周失去了在建筑工地的工作。
People have knocked on Mr. Cobb’s red door to offer to buy back his land and to preach the Gospel. The City Council is looking into potential ordinance or health code violations (his home has no septic tank or running water). There is a doomsday plan in place, Mr. Schock explained: If enough of Mr. Cobb’s friends move in to gain a majority that could vote out the current government, the Council would immediately dissolve the town.
已经有人去敲过科布家的红色大门，提出要买回他们的土地，向他宣讲基督教福音(Gospel)。市议会(City Council)正在调查他是否可能违反了法令、或违反了卫生规范（他家没有化粪池或自来水）。朔克解释说已经准备好一个末日计划：如果科布有足够多的朋友搬到这里，在市议会里赢得能够把现任政府选下台的多数席位，那么市议会会立即解散这座小镇。
Mr. Harper, Leith’s only black resident, said a lot of people approached him at his mother-in-law’s funeral on Monday to tell him they had his back.
利斯唯一的黑人居民哈珀说，周一在他岳母的葬礼上，很多人过来对他说他们会支持他。
“People told me to leave town for the weekend and they’d take care of everything,” he said.
哈珀说，“人们让我在周末离开小镇，说他们会把一切都打理好。”
But he and his wife, Sherrill — who found herself referred to as a “filthy race-mixing white woman” in one of Mr. Cobb’s online posts — said they were not going anywhere.
可是，他和妻子谢里尔(Sherrill)说，他们哪儿也不去。谢里尔发现，科布在他的一条网帖中，把她称为“肮脏的混种白人女性”。
Mr. Cobb, meanwhile, seems to be soaking in the publicity and mocking it.
与此同时，科布似乎沉浸于媒体的关注，而且在嘲讽这种关注。
Although he said that four fellow white nationalists have bought or acquired some of his plots, he said he did not know if or when they would be moving to the town, nor would he push the issue on them.
他说，有四名白人民族主义者购买或获得了他手中的一些地块，尽管如此，他说他不知道他们会在何时搬到镇上，他也不会敦促他们考虑这个问题。
He gave the community’s run-down former meat locker and creamery to the National Socialist Movement. Jeff Schoep, the movement’s leader, said he was unsure how easy it would be for people, in a tough economy, to pack up and head to Leith. But he said he thought it was a fantastic idea to establish a community for white nationalists so they could have a safe place to land in a crisis — say, a civil war.
他把社区内原已停产的肉类加工厂和乳制品厂赠给了白人至上组织“国家社会主义运动”(National Socialist Movement)。该运动的领导人杰夫·舍珀(Jeff Schoep)说，眼下经济状况不好，他不确定人们能不能下决心收拾行李前往利斯。不过他说，他认为为白人民族主义者建立一个社区，以便他们能够在危机中——比如说内战——找到一个安全的落脚点，是一个很棒的主意。
“I would like to see it prosper and move forward,” Mr. Schoep said. “People should move there and get the process going. It gives us a base of support for elections and things like that.”
舍珀说，“我希望这个社区能繁荣兴旺，能向前发展。人们应该搬到那里推动它的发展进程。它能够成为我们的一个基地，用于支持选举之类的东西。”
But as Ms. Ketterling has been hearing from her bar patrons all week, residents would rather see the venture fail.
不过，就像过去一整周里，凯特琳从她的酒吧顾客那里听说的那样，居民们是希望这次探索以失败告终的。
“They’re not happy,” she said. “We don’t like that kind of stuff.”
她说，“他们不开心。我们不喜欢这种事。”