SANA, Yemen — United States commandos stormed a village in southern Yemen early Saturday in an effort to free an American photojournalist held hostage by Al Qaeda, but the raid ended in tragedy, with the kidnappers killing the American and a South African held with him, United States officials said.
也门萨那——周六早上，为了解救被基地组织(Al Qaeda)绑架的一名美国摄影记者，美国突击队闯进了也门南部的一个村庄，但突袭以悲剧告终。劫持者杀害了这名美国人和与他关押在一起的一名南非人，美国官员说。
The hostages — Luke Somers, an American photojournalist, and Pierre Korkie, a South African teacher — were killed by their captors, militants from Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, when they realized the rescue effort was underway. President Obama said he had authorized the operation, led by about three dozen Navy SEAL Team 6 commandos, after concluding that Mr. Somers’s life was in “imminent danger.”
这两名人质分别是美国摄影记者卢克·萨默斯(Luke Somers)和南非教师皮埃尔·库尔基(Pierre Korkie)。绑架他们的阿拉伯半岛基地组织(Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula)的武装分子，在意识到营救行动正在展开之后，杀害了他们。奥巴马总统称，在确定萨默斯的生命有“迫在眉睫的危险”之后，他授权启动了这次由海豹突击队第六小队(Navy SEAL Team 6)的三十多名成员牵头的行动。
It was the second attempt by United States forces to rescue Mr. Somers from Yemen in less than two weeks. Despite the deaths of the hostages, as well as several Yemeni civilians, President Obama said his administration would not back down from using military power to free its captured citizens.
这是美国军队在不到两周时间内第二次尝试在也门营救萨默斯。尽管此次行动造成了两名人质和多名也门平民的死亡，但是奥巴马表示，政府不会放弃动用军事力量来解救被劫持的美国公民。
“As this and previous hostage rescue operations demonstrate, the United States will spare no effort to use all of its military, intelligence and diplomatic capabilities to bring Americans home safely, wherever they are located,” he said in a statement.
“正如这一次人质解救行动及此前的行动所显示的，美国将不遗余力地使用所有军事、情报和外交手段，让美国公民平安回家，无论他们被困在何方，”奥巴马在一份声明中说。
The raid Saturday, however, may have doomed an effort by a South African aid group to free Mr. Korkie. Gift of the Givers, a South African relief organization that has projects in Yemen, said it had successfully negotiated Mr. Korkie’s release, and he had been expected to be freed by the militants on Sunday. American officials said they were not aware of those arrangements.
然而，周六的突袭行动或许破坏了一个南非援助组织解救库尔基的计划。在也门拥有项目的南非援助组织“捐助者的礼物”(Gift of the Givers)称，该机构已经通过谈判成功达成了释放库尔基的协议，预计武装分子将于周日将他释放。美国官员称，他们不知道这一情况。
Mr. Somers had been part of a group of freelance journalists who covered the aftermath of Yemen’s 2011 uprising and had stayed on, working as a freelance editor at English-language publications and as a photojournalist. He was kidnapped in September 2013 while walking on a street in Sana, Yemen’s capital. Shortly before his death, Mr. Somers’s family released a video in which they pleaded with his captors to release him, while insisting that they had no prior knowledge of the first rescue attempt.
萨默斯此前曾参与了一个自由记者团体，报道也门2011年抗议的后续影响。后来他留在了也门，为一些英文出版物做自由编辑，并从事摄影记者的工作。2013年9月在也门首都萨那的街上步行时，萨默斯遭到了绑架。萨默斯遇害前不久，他的家人发布了一则视频，恳求绑架者释放他，同时还坚持说，他们事先对第一次的营救尝试并不知情。
On Saturday, Mr. Somers’s sister, Lucy Somers, told The Associated Press that F.B.I. agents had notified the family of her brother’s death.
周六，萨默斯的妹妹露西·萨默斯(Lucy Somers)对美联社说，美国联邦调查局(FBI)的特工向家人通报了哥哥的死讯。
“We ask that all of Luke’s family members be allowed to mourn in peace,” she said.
“我们希望外界让卢克的亲人，能在不受干扰的情况下，安静地悼念他，”她说。
In the village where the rescue attempt took place, in the southern province of Shabwah, a tribal leader, Tarek al-Daghari al-Awlaki, said the American commandos had raided four houses, killing at least two militants but also eight civilians. He said that one of the civilians killed was a 70-year-old man.
此次营救行动发生在也门南部舍卜沃省(Shabwah)的村庄，村里的部落首领塔里克·达噶里·奥拉基(Tarek al-Daghari al-Awlaki)说，美国突击队突袭了四所房屋，杀死了至少两名武装分子，但也杀死了八名平民。他说，遇难平民中包括一名70岁的男子。
“The shooting caused panic,” Mr. Daghari said. “Nine of the dead are from my tribe.” He added that villagers had spent the rest of Saturday burying the dead and collecting spent bullet casings.
“枪击引发了恐慌，”达噶里说。“死者中有九人来自我的部落。”他还说，村民们在当天埋葬了他们，并收集了废弃的子弹壳。
American officials said they acted while facing a perilous deadline and a tiny window of opportunity. Mr. Somers’s captors said in a video statement released Wednesday that they would kill him by Saturday unless unspecified demands were met. The ultimatum for Mr. Somers appeared to be largely a response to the first raid, on Nov. 25, an operation led by United States Special Operations commandos on a cave near Yemen’s border with Saudi Arabia. The commandos freed eight other hostages and killed seven militants, but found no sign of Mr. Somers, who apparently had been moved in the days before the operation.
美国官员们称，他们采取行动的期限十分紧迫，取得成功的机会窗口也很窄。萨默斯的劫持者在周三发布的一则视频声明中说，如果他们的要求得不到满足，就会在周六之前杀掉他，但视频中并未具体说明是什么要求。这段关于萨默斯的最后通牒，在很大程度上似乎是对11月25日第一次突袭行动的回应，该行动由美国特种作战部队(United States Special Operations)的突击队负责，行动地点是也门与沙特阿拉伯边境附近的一个洞穴。在那次行动中，突击队解救了另外八名人质，杀死了七名武装分子，但没有发现萨默斯的踪迹。萨默斯似乎在该次行动的几天前，就已被转移到别处。
By Saturday, though, the United States had tracked him to a walled compound in the village in southern Yemen. American intelligence, including spy satellites, surveillance drones and eavesdropping technology, had pinpointed the location of Mr. Somers and one other Western hostage inside the compound, according to a senior military official who provided an account of the operation. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss classified operations.
但到周六，美国已经追踪到，他被关押在也门南部一座村庄的一处有围墙的院子里。军方的一名高官介绍了此次行动的情况，他透露美国运用包括间谍卫星、无人侦察机和窃听技术在内的情报手段，查明了萨默斯和另外一名西方人质在该院落的具体位置。由于讨论的是机密行动，这名官员要求匿名。
America’s Special Operations forces have played a central role in global combat missions since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the most notable being the raid into Pakistan in 2011 that killed Osama bin Laden. But the challenges of distance, weather, equipment failure, pinpoint intelligence — and unpredictable actions by the adversary — are ever-present.
自2001年9月11日的袭击之后，美国特种作战部队一直在全球作战任务中扮演着核心角色，其中最有名的是2011年进入巴基斯坦，击毙奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)的那次突袭。但距离、天气、设备故障、情报准确性，以及对手行动无法预知等因素构成的挑战始终存在。
The operation on Saturday began at about 1 a.m. The SEAL Team 6 commandos, joined by a small number of Yemeni counterterrorism troops, swept toward the village aboard V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft under cover of darkness early Saturday local time. They landed several hundred yards from the compound in an effort to remain undetected.
周六的行动是在大约凌晨1点时开始的。当地时间周六凌晨，在夜色的掩护下，海豹突击队第六小队和少量来自也门反恐部队的人员，乘坐V-22“鱼鹰”(Osprey)倾转旋翼机向那座村庄挺近。为了保持隐蔽，他们降落在了离那处院落几百码的地方。
Their effort faced steep odds. The compound, which was located in a remote, hilly area, surrounded by scrub, was guarded by about half a dozen gunmen, already jittery about a possible repeat of the previous rescue attempt. And the approach to the compound was sufficiently difficult that the commandos had virtually no element of surprise, which they typically plan for and rely on. The commandos were detected when they were less than 100 yards from the compound. It was not clear what alerted the militants.
他们的这番行动胜算很低。那处院落位于偏远的山区，四周围绕着矮树丛，有大约六名武装人员把守。由于担心再次发生上次那样的营救行动，这些武装分子也紧张不安。而且接近那处院落相当困难，突击队几乎无法像往常一样出奇制胜，他们通常都会计划并依靠出人意料的行动来取得成功。在离院子不到100码（约合91米）的地方，突击队被对方发现了。尚不清楚是什么惊动了武装分子。
“It was very difficult to catch them by enough surprise to prevent them from having time to execute the hostages,” said the senior military official, who monitored the operation overnight Friday into Saturday.
“很难做到出其不意，让他们没时间杀害人质，”前述军方高官说。他监督了周五夜里的行动。
Heavily armed and wearing night-vision goggles, the commandos breached the compound and knew in which building the hostages were being held. But their advantage was already lost: the commandos saw one of the militants go into a small building long enough to shoot the hostages and leave. By the time the Americans reached the building, the militants had already fled. The commandos recovered Mr. Somers and Mr. Korkie, who were both gravely wounded. One of the hostages — officials did not say which one — died on the helicopter ride to the amphibious assault ship Makin Island, from which the rescue mission was launched off the Yemeni coast.
全副武装且佩戴着夜视镜的突击队员攻进了院子，并且知道人质被关押在哪间房屋里。但他们已经失去了先机：突击队员看见其中一名武装分子进入了一栋较小的建筑物，但那栋建筑与突击队员之间的距离很远，足够让武装分子向人质开枪，然后离开。美军抵达时，武装分子已经逃走。突击队员找到了萨默斯和库尔基，两人均身受重伤。其中一名人质在飞往两栖攻击舰“马金岛号”(Makin Island)的直升机上死亡，但官方没有说具体是谁。此次营救任务正是从停靠在也门海岸附近的“马金岛号”上发起的。
The other hostage died on the operating table after reaching the ship.
抵达该船后，另一名人质死在了手术台上。
Mr. Korkie was kidnapped with his wife, Yolande Korkie, in May 2013. Ms. Korkie was released without a ransom in January after Gift of the Givers used its connections with tribal leaders in the area to contact the kidnappers, according to the charity’s director, Imtiaz Sooliman.
库尔基是在2013年5月与妻子约兰德·库尔基(Yolande Korkie)一同被绑架的。据“捐助者的礼物”的负责人伊姆蒂亚兹·苏莱曼(Imtiaz Sooliman)称，该慈善组织通过与该地区部落领袖的关系，与绑架者取得联系，约兰德·库尔基今年1月在没有交付赎金的情况下获释。
Negotiations for the release of Mr. Korkie proved more difficult, the aid group said, with Al Qaeda insisting on the payment of a ransom — even though the family said that they did not have the money. The South African government refused to intercede, Mr. Sooliman said in an interview in June.
该援助团体称，事实证明，为释放库尔基进行的谈判更困难，因为基地组织坚持要求支付赎金，尽管库尔基的家人表示拿不出钱来。苏莱曼在6月接受采访时称，南非政府拒绝出面交涉。