WASHINGTON — Secretary of State John Kerry said Monday that the use of chemical weapons in attacks on civilians in Syria last week was undeniable and that the Obama administration would hold the Syrian government accountable for what he called a “moral obscenity” that has shocked the world’s conscience.
华盛顿——美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周一表示，叙利亚上周使用化学武器袭击平民的举动无可否认，奥巴马政府会让叙利亚政府对此负责，他称这种举动是震惊全世界良知的“道德暴行”。
In some of the most aggressive language used yet by the administration, Mr. Kerry accused the Syrian government of the “indiscriminate slaughter of civilians” and of cynical efforts to cover up its responsibility for what he called a “cowardly crime.”
在奥巴马政府迄今使用的部分最强硬言辞中，克里谴责，叙利亚政府不光“滥杀平民”，并且无耻地试图掩盖自身对“懦弱罪行”的责任。
Mr. Kerry’s remarks at the State Department reinforced the administration’s toughening stance on the Syria conflict, which is now well into its third year, and indicated that the White House was moving closer to a military response in consultation with America’s allies.
克里在国务院(State Department)的这番言论强化了奥巴马政府对叙利亚冲突日益强硬的立场，表明白宫离同美国盟友协同采取军事行动的举措越来越近。如今，叙利亚冲突早已进入第三个年头。
Administration officials said that although President Obama had not made a final decision on military action, he was likely to order a limited military operation — cruise missiles launched from American destroyers in the Mediterranean Sea at military targets in Syria, for example — and not a sustained air campaign intended to topple Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian president, or to fundamentally alter the nature of the conflict on the ground.
政府官员称，尽管奥巴马总统还没有就军事行动作出最终决定，但他很可能下令采取一次有限军事行动——比如，从位于地中海的美国驱逐舰发射巡航导弹——而不是一场旨在推翻叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的持续空袭，也不会从根本上改变地面冲突的性质。
In the coming days, officials said, the nation’s intelligence agencies will disclose information to bolster their case that chemical weapons were used by Mr. Assad’s forces. The information could include so-called signals intelligence — intercepted radio or telephone calls between Syrian military commanders.
官员称，在接下来的几天，美国情报机构将公布信息，支持使用化学武器的是阿萨德的军队这一说法。相关信息可能包括所谓的信号情报，即截获的叙利亚军事指挥官之间的无线电或电话通话。
Officials said it was conceivable that military action could still be averted by a dramatic turnabout on the part of the Assad government, or by the Russian government that has been supporting it. But they said there were few expectations that this would happen.
官员称，可以想象，美国依然可能会因阿萨德政府或一直向其提供支持的俄罗斯政府发生重大转变而放弃军事行动。但他们表示，几乎没人认为会出现这样的情况。
Although the United States was consulting with allies, administration officials said they had largely abandoned hopes of obtaining any authorization for action in the United Nations Security Council, given the all-but certain veto from Russia.
美国正在同其盟友协商，但政府官员称，考虑到俄罗斯肯定会投反对票，他们基本上已经放弃了从联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)获得行动授权的希望。
Other signs of Western momentum toward a military response also took shape on Monday. Britain’s prime minister, David Cameron, cut short a holiday to deal with Syria, and the foreign ministers of Britain and Turkey suggested that bypassing the United Nations Security Council was an option. France’s foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said inaction was unacceptable.
周一，西方还出现了其他一些可能会采取军事行动的迹象。英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)为应对叙利亚问题而中断了假期。英国外长和土耳其外长表示，绕开联合国安理会也是一种选择。法国外交部长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)则称，不作为是不可接受的。
“The only option I do not envisage is to do nothing,” Mr. Fabius told Europe 1, a French radio station. France has been a close ally of the rebels seeking Mr. Assad’s ouster in the country’s civil war.
“我唯一无法想象的选择是不采取任何行动，”法比尤斯告诉法国广播电台欧洲第一电台(Europe 1)。法国一直是叙利亚内战中寻求推翻阿萨德的反对派的亲密盟友。
News media in Cyprus, where Britain maintains a military air base that is less than 100 miles from Syria’s coast, reported stepped-up flights there in recent days, although such activity may not have been unusual.
塞浦路斯距离叙利亚海岸不到100英里（约160公里），英国依然在那里设有一处空军基地。塞浦路斯的新闻媒体报道称，最近几天，基地的飞行次数增加，不过类似现象可能是正常的。
Mr. Kerry spoke hours after United Nations inspectors were finally allowed access to one of the attack sites, despite shooting from unidentified snipers that disabled their convoy’s lead vehicle. The inspectors still managed to visit two hospitals, interview witnesses and doctors and collect patient samples for the first time since the attack last week that claimed hundreds of lives.
在克里发表前述言论几个小时之前，联合国调查员不顾其车队第一辆车遭到了不明身份狙击手的射击，终于获准进入其中一个袭击现场。调查员还设法走访了两家医院、采访了目击者和医生，收集了伤者样本。上周发生导致数百人死亡的袭击后，这还是第一次。
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said in a statement that he had instructed his top disarmament official, Angela Kane, who was visiting Damascus, to register a “strong complaint to the Syrian government and authorities of opposition forces” to ensure the safety of the inspectors after the assault. There was no indication that any member of the inspection team had been hurt.
联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)在一份声明中表示，袭击发生之后，他已指示正在大马士革访问的裁军事务最高官员安哥拉·凯恩(Angela Kane)“向叙利亚政府和反对派力量当局表示强烈抗议”，以保证调查人员的安全。没有迹象表明调查小组有成员受伤。
Mr. Ban’s spokesman, Farhan Haq, told reporters at a regular daily briefing at United Nations headquarters in New York that the assailants, who had not been identified, fired on the first vehicle in the convoy, which was “hit in its tires and its front window.”
潘基文的发言人法尔汗·哈克(Farhan Haq)在纽约联合国总部每日例行的新闻发布会上对记者表示，身份依然不明的袭击者开火袭击了调查小组的第一辆车，车辆的“轮胎和前窗被打中”。
“Ultimately,” he said, “it was not able to travel further.”
他说，“最终，车队无法继续前行。”
Antigovernment activists posted videos online of United Nations inspectors in blue helmets arriving in the Moadamiya area, southwest of the capital, where they were shown entering a clinic and interviewing patients.
反政府活动人士在网上贴出视频，显示戴着蓝盔的联合国调查员们抵达了叙利亚首都西南的穆阿达米亚地区。视频还显示，他们进入当地的一家诊所，和伤者进行了面谈。
The visit by the United Nations inspectors to the Damascus suburb, in a half-dozen vehicles escorted by Syrian security forces, came shortly after President Assad denied that his forces had used poison gas.
联合国调查员乘坐六辆车，在叙利亚安全部队的护卫下走访了大马士革郊区，此前不久，阿萨德总统刚刚否认他的部队曾使用毒气。
In an interview with the Russian newspaper Izvestia, published on Monday, Mr. Assad said accusations that his forces had used chemical weapons were an “outrage against common sense” and warned the United States that military intervention in Syria would bring “failure just like in all the previous wars they waged, starting with Vietnam and up to the present day.”
根据俄罗斯《消息报》(Izvestia)于周一刊发的采访，阿萨德说，指控他的部队使用了化学武器，是一种“违反常理的侮辱”，他警告美国，对叙利亚的军事干预会给美国带来“失败，就像他们之前发动的所有战争一样，这种失败始自越南战争，一直延续到今日”。
Obama administration officials said that Mr. Kerry’s statement was calculated to rebut the claims made by Syria and its longtime patron, Russia, that the rebels were somehow responsible for the chemical weapons attack, or that Mr. Assad had made an important concession by giving the United Nations investigators access.
奥巴马政府的官员说，克里的声明旨在驳斥叙利亚及其长期赞助者俄罗斯的主张，这两个国家认为反对派应在某种程度上为化学武器袭击负责，或者认为阿萨德允许联合国调查员进入叙利亚，已经是做出了重要的让步。
Mr. Kerry noted that on Thursday he had told Walid al-Moallem, the Syrian foreign minister, that if the Assad government had nothing to hide it should provide immediate access to the attack site.
克里于周四指出，他已向叙利亚外交部长瓦利德·穆阿利姆(Walid al-Moallem)表示，如果阿萨德政府没有什么需要隐藏的秘密，那它就应该允许调查员立即进入袭击现场。
“Instead, for five days, the Syrian regime refused to allow the U.N. investigators access to the site of the attack that would allegedly exonerate them,” Mr. Kerry said. “Instead, it attacked the area further, shelling it and systematically destroying evidence.”
克里说，“事实正相反，在过去五天里，叙利亚当局一直拒绝批准联合国调查员进入袭击现场，依他们所说，现场证据可以使他们免责。当局反而进一步袭击了这个地区，用炮轰有组织地破坏证据。”
He said: “The indiscriminate slaughter of civilians, the killing of women and children and innocent bystanders by chemical weapons is a moral obscenity. By any standard, it is inexcusable. And despite the excuses and equivocations that some have manufactured, it is undeniable.”
他说：“用化学武器滥杀平民、屠杀妇女儿童和无辜旁观者是道德沦丧的行为。无论按照何种标准，这种行为都是不可原谅的。尽管一些人炮制了种种借口和遁词，这种行为仍然无法否认。”
On Capitol Hill, top House and Senate Republicans called on the administration to confer with lawmakers before any military strike and to make the case to a skeptical public. The White House on Monday reached out to Speaker John A. Boehner after Mr. Boehner’s office noted publicly that the speaker had not heard from the president on Syria.
在国会山(Capitol Hill)，参众两院的共和党高层呼吁政府，在采取任何军事打击行动之前，都要和议员们进行协商，还呼吁政府向心存怀疑的公众说明真相。众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)的办公室公开指出，议长还没有听到奥巴马总统对叙利亚问题的看法，在这之后，白宫于周一联系了博纳。
“The speaker made clear that before any action is taken there must be meaningful consultation with members of Congress, as well as clearly defined objectives and a broader strategy to achieve stability,” said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner.
博纳的发言人布伦达·布克(Brendan Buck)说，“议长明确表示，在采取任何行动之前，政府必须和国会议员进行富有意义的磋商，并应明确界定行动目标，拿出实现稳定的整体战略。”
Even as the United States and its allies considered their next steps, the toll from the attack continued to mount.
就在美国及其盟友考虑下一步行动之际，遇袭伤亡人数仍在增加。
Doctors Without Borders reported on Saturday that about 3,600 patients had been treated at three hospitals for symptoms that appeared to stem from exposure to chemical weapons.
“无国界医生”组织(Doctors Without Borders)于上周六公布，有3600名左右的病人在三家医院接受治疗，他们的症状似乎都是因接触化学武器引起的。
On Monday, the group said that 70 of the 100 volunteers who had taken care of these patients had also become ill and that one volunteer had died.
周一，该组织表示，照料这些病人的100名志愿者中有70名已经生病，其中一名已经死亡。
The organization was trying to replenish the depleted stocks of atropine, which is an antidote used to treat victims of chemical attacks, at the hospitals that treated the patients and was also rushing supplies to other medical facilities in Syria.
收治患者的医院里库存的阿托品已经消耗一空，该组织正在设法补充。阿托品是一种解毒药，可用于治疗化学攻击受害者。该组织还在加紧给叙利亚其他医疗机构提供补给。