WASHINGTON — A flurry of last-minute moves by the House, Senate and White House late Monday failed to break a bitter budget standoff over President Obama’s health care law, setting in motion the first government shutdown in nearly two decades.
华盛顿——众议院、参议院和白宫周一夜间一系列的最后仓皇招数，未能打破因奥巴马总统的医疗改革法导致的艰难预算对峙，引发了近20年以来的首次政府关闭。
The impasse meant that 800,000 federal workers were to be furloughed and more than a million others would be asked to work without pay. The Office of Management and Budget issued orders shortly before the midnight deadline that “agencies should now execute plans for an orderly shutdown due to the absence of appropriations” because Congress had failed to act to keep the federal government financed.
这一僵局意味着将有80万联邦政府工作人员暂时被解雇，另有超过一百万的工作人员将被要求无薪工作。管理与预算办公室(Office of Management and Budget)赶在午夜最后时限到来之前发出指示，“因无拨款，各部门应按计划有序关闭”，这是由于国会未能采取行动为联邦政府提供经费而造成的。
After a series of rapid-fire back and forth legislative maneuvers, the House and Senate ended the day with no resolution, and the Senate halted business until later Tuesday while the House took steps to open talks. But Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, dismissed as game-playing the House proposal to begin conference committee negotiations.
经过几个回合的快速立法招数往来之后，参众两院在当天结束之时仍未达成决议。参议院暂停工作，直到周二晚些时候，而众议院则开始准备新一轮的谈判。但参议院多数派领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)表示，不理会众议院开启参众两院协调会议的提议，称之为耍花招。
“We will not go to conference with a gun to our heads,” he said, demanding that the House accept the Senate’s six-week stopgap spending bill, which has no policy prescriptions, before negotiations begin.
他说，“我们不会在枪对着我们脑袋的情况下参加协调会”，他要求众议院在开始谈判之前，接受参议院提出的六周临时开支法案，该法案不包括任何政策条款。
The Obama administration and the Republican-controlled House had come close to failing to finance the government in the past but had always reached a last-minute agreement to head off a disruption in government services.
奥巴马政府与共和党控制的众议院过去曾有几次差点未能给政府提供经费，但总能在最后时刻达成协议，阻止了政府服务的中断。
In the hours leading up to the deadline, House Republican leaders won approval, in a vote of 228 to 201, of a new plan to tie further government spending to a one-year delay in a requirement that individuals buy health insurance. The House proposal would deny federal subsidies to members of Congress, Capitol Hill staff, executive branch political appointees, White House staff, and the president and vice president, who would be forced to buy their health coverage on the Affordable Care Act’s new insurance exchanges.
在最后时限到达之前的几小时里，众议院的共和党领导人以228比201的投票结果赢得了一个新方案，把政府开支与推迟一年执行医疗改革中的一项要求联系起来，即个人必须购买医疗保险的要求。众议院的新方案还将免去国会成员、国会山工作人员、总统任命的行政人员、白宫工作人员以及总统、副总统享有的联邦医疗保险补贴，以上人员将被迫在根据平价医疗法(Affordable Care Act)而新开设的保险市场上，购买自己的医疗保险。
But 57 minutes later, and with almost no debate, the Senate killed the House health care provisions and sent the stopgap spending bill right back, free of policy prescriptions. Earlier in the day, the Senate had taken less than 25 minutes to convene and dispose of a weekend budget proposal by the House Republicans.
但57分钟之后，参议院几乎在毫无讨论的情况下，否决了众议院的附带医疗改革法案条款的提案，在临时开支法案中删除了有关政策的内容，把其直接返回到众议院。当天早些时候，参议院还曾仅用不到25分钟的会议，否决了众议院共和党人周末通过的预算提案。
“They’ve lost their minds,” Mr. Reid said, before disposing of the House bill. “They keep trying to do the same thing over and over again.”
在就参议院否决提案之前，里德说，“他们疯了，他们一次又一次地尝试同样的作法。”
The federal government was then left essentially to run out of money at midnight, the end of the fiscal year, although the president signed a measure late Monday that would allow members of the military to continue to be paid.
其后果是，联邦政府必然会在午夜时分、财政年度结束之际，无钱可花。同时，总统在周一晚些时候签署了一项法案，保证给军队人员继续发薪。
“You don’t get to extract a ransom for doing your job,” Mr. Obama said in the White House briefing room as the clock ticked to midnight.
“不能为干你该做的工作而索要赎金，”奥巴马在时针指向午夜时在白宫新闻发布厅说道。
Mr. Obama called House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio, but they spoke for less than 10 minutes, without any sign of progress.
奥巴马打电话给众议院议长、来自俄亥俄州的约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)，但通话仅持续了不到10分钟，没有任何取得进展的迹象。
“I talked to the president tonight,” the speaker said on the House floor. He summed up Mr. Obama’s remarks as: “I’m not going to negotiate. I’m not going to negotiate.”
在众议院会议大厅里，这位议长说道，“我今晚和总统通了电话。”他把奥巴马的话归纳为：“我不会再谈判。我不会再谈判。”
The House’s most ardent conservatives were resigned to seeing through their war on the health care law to its inevitable conclusion, a shutdown that could test voters’ patience with Republican brinkmanship.
众议院中最强硬的保守派人士早已决心与医疗改革法斗争到底，这会不可避免地导致政府停止运转，但这也会检验选民对于共和党边缘政策的耐心。
Cracks in the party were opening into fissures of frustration.
党内意见的分歧已引发了更大的不满情绪。
“You have this group that keeps saying somehow if you’re not with them, you’re for Obamacare,” said Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California. “If you’re not with exactly their plan, exactly what they want to do, then you’re somehow for Obamacare, and it’s just getting a little old.”
“有这样一群人，他们认为，如果你不站到他们一边，那你就是奥巴马医保法的支持者”，加利福尼亚州共和党众议员德文·努尼斯(Devin Nunes)说道。“如果你不完全支持他们的方案，不完全支持他们想做的事，那么你就是支持奥巴马医保法。这种思维方式有点过时了。”
“It’s moronic to shut down the government over this,” he continued.
“为此而关闭政府是愚蠢的，”他继续说道。
It was far from certain that Republicans could remain unified on their insistence on health care concessions if a shutdown lasted for some time. Asked whether Republicans could hold together through the end of the week, Representative Phil Gingrey of Georgia, one of the more conservative members, answered: “I don’t know. I don’t know.”
如果政府的关闭持续一些日子的话，目前很难确定共和党人会继续团结一致，坚持要求医疗保障改革法做出让步。在被问到共和党人是否到本周结束时还能保持意见一致时，更保守的众议员之一、乔治亚州的众议员菲尔·金格瑞(Phil Gingrey)答道：“我不清楚，我不清楚。”
Mr. Reid laid into Mr. Boehner and put the blame for a shutdown solely on his shoulders. 
里德指责博纳，把造成政府关闭的责任全部推到他的头上。
“You know with a bully you cannot let them slap you around, because they slap you around today, they slap you five or six times tomorrow,” Mr. Reid, a former boxer, said. “We are not going to be bullied.”
“要知道，面对横行霸道之人，你不能让他们随便打你。因为如果今天让他们打你一次了，明天他们会来打你五六次，”前拳击手里德说道，“我们不是好欺负的。”
Mr. Reid called on the speaker to put the Senate bill up for a vote, which would almost certainly pass in the House because of overwhelming Democratic support and backing from moderate Republicans.
里德呼吁博纳议长把参议院的开支提案拿到众议院去进行投票。如果进行投票，会得到众议院中民主党人压倒性的拥护，再加上来自共和党温和派的支持，几乎可以肯定提案会获得通过。
In one of their final moves, House Republicans attached language to a government funding bill that would delay the mandate that individuals obtain health insurance and would force members of Congress, their staffs and White House staff members to buy their health insurance on the new exchanges without any government subsidies.
在最后使出的几招中，共和党众议员给政府开支法案提出附加条件，希望推迟个人购买医疗保险的要求。根据附加条件，国会成员、工作人员和白宫工作人员将被迫不再享受政府补贴，而需自行在保险市场上购买医疗保险。
Conservative activists have portrayed the language as ensuring that Congress and the White House would be held to the same strictures that apply to ordinary Americans under the health care law. In fact, the language would put poorly paid junior staff members at a disadvantage.
保守派活动人士把附加条件的语言形容为，保证了国会和白宫人员和美国普通民众一样遵守医疗保障改革法的严格规定。事实上，附件条件的语言对收入较低的年轻工作人员非常不利。
Most people buying coverage on the exchanges will receive subsidies through generous tax credits. Most Americans will still get their insurance from their employers, who will continue to receive a tax deduction for the cost of that care. 
多数在保险市场购买医保的人会享有慷慨的税收抵扣而得到补助。大多数美国人仍继续从雇主那里获得医疗保险，而雇主也会因为在医疗保险上的开支而享有减税待遇。
Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York, said junior staff members were “being used as a sacrifice” for a political gambit, driven by Republican hard-liners in the Senate like Ted Cruz of Texas, that will go nowhere.
纽约州共和党众议员彼得·T·金(Peter T. King)表示，类似德克萨斯州的特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)这样的参议院共和党强硬派，把年轻工作人员作为其毫无意义的政治棋局上的“牺牲品”。
“They locked themselves into this situation, the dead end that Ted Cruz created,” Mr. King said.
“他们让自己陷入困境，走进了特德·克鲁兹制造的死胡同，”金说道。
The budget confrontation — which threatened to close federal offices and facilities, idling thousands of workers around the country — stemmed from an unusual push by Republicans to undo a law that has been on the books for three years, through a presidential election, and that the Supreme Court largely upheld in 2012. A major part of the law is set to take effect Tuesday: the opening of insurance exchanges, where people without insurance will be able to obtain coverage.
预算上的对峙，已经威胁要关闭联邦政府办公室和设施，并让全国范围内近万名政府员工无所事事。这种局面源自共和党人出乎寻常地对一项法律的抵制。该法律获得通过已达3年之久，并经历了一次总统大选的考验。最高法院(Supreme Court)也在2012年在很大程度上维持了该法律。法律中的主要部分原定从周二起生效，即开设保险市场，让没有医疗保险的人们可以购买医保。
Republicans argue that the administration has itself delayed elements of the law. They say it should be postponed for at least a year.
共和党人认为，政府自己造成了法律部分内容的拖延。他们说法律应该推迟至少一年再实施。
Democrats say Republicans are being driven by the most extreme elements of their party to use the federal budget to extract concessions on health care that they could not win through the traditional legislative process. “The scary thing about the period we’re in right now is there is no clear end,” said Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland.
民主党人则认为，共和党人在该党极端人士驱使下，试图利用联邦预算进行要挟，来得到他们无法在传统立法程序中获得的、有关医疗保障改革法案的让步。马里兰州民主党众议员克里斯·范霍伦(Chris Van Hollen)说，“我们所处时期的可怕之处在于，看不到解决问题的前景。”