TAISHAN, China — Australian officials have asked an American icebreaker to help with the rescue of Chinese and Russian vessels that are surrounded by ice floes off Antarctica, according to an announcement on Sunday by the Australian Maritime Safety Authority.
中国台山——澳大利亚海洋安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)周日宣布，澳大利亚官员已请求美国的一艘破冰船协助援救在南极洲附近受困浮冰的中国和俄罗斯船只。
The officials said the United States Coast Guard had answered the request and was making a ship available to assist the other vessels.
相关官员称，美国海岸警卫队(United States Coast Guard)已响应澳方请求，正安排一艘船协助被困船只。
The deployment of the American ship, the Polar Star, for the rescue operation adds to an increasingly complex set of issues for international vessels that have found themselves struggling against unfavorable ice and weather conditions in Antarctica.
涉事各国船只正在与不利的冰雪和天气状况作斗争，面临的局面日趋复杂。美国部署“北极星号”(Polar Star)参加此次救援行动，使得这一局面更加复杂。
A news release from the Australian authorities said the Polar Star, which was docked in Australia, has been en route to Antarctica since Dec. 3. Its original mission was to clear a navigable shipping channel in McMurdo Sound to the National Science Foundation’s Scientific Research Station. The channel is used by resupply ships to deliver food, fuel and other goods to the station. Australian officials said the American icebreaker would continue with that mission after the rescue operation was over.
澳大利亚当局发出的一份新闻稿称，12月3日，原本停靠在澳大利亚的“北极星号”开始前往南极。该船原来的任务是为国家科学基金会(National Science Foundation)的科考站(Scientific Research Station)清理位于麦克默多海峡的一条可通航物流通道。补给船需要利用该通道向科考站运送食品、燃料和其他物资。澳大利亚官员称，救援行动结束后，美国这艘破冰船将继续继续执行原来的任务。
On Friday, Australian officials said the Chinese ship, the Xue Long, or Snow Dragon, had notified the authorities that it might be trapped by ice, one day after the Chinese used a helicopter from the ship to rescue 52 passengers from the Russian ship, the Akademik Shokalskiy, which had become trapped on Christmas Eve. The passengers were scientists, tourists and journalists on a research trip, the Australasian Antarctic Expedition.
周五，澳大利亚官员称，中国船只“雪龙号”用自己的直升飞机把俄罗斯“绍卡利斯基院士号”(Akademik Shokalskiy)上的52名乘客救走后一天，“雪龙号”通知澳大利亚当局，称自己可能被冰困住了。“绍卡利斯基院士号”是在平安夜被困的，船上搭载着包括科学家、游客和记者在内的澳大拉西亚南极考察队(Australasian Antarctic Expedition)。
Those passengers were taken by the Chinese helicopter, the Snow Eagle, and a barge to an Australian icebreaker, the Aurora Australis. The 22 crew members of the Russian ship had said they would remain onboard their vessel and leave Antarctica once ice conditions improved.
前述乘客已被中国的“雪鹰号”直升飞机和澳大利亚破冰船“南极光号”的一艘驳船接走，但船上的22名船员表示他们要留在船上，一旦冰雪条件好转便驶离南极。
After the Chinese vessel said that it could become trapped in ice, Australian maritime officials told the Aurora to remain in the area. On Saturday, the Chinese sailors told the Australian authorities that the Xue Long’s attempt to maneuver through the ice had failed. But the ship was in no immediate danger, and it had food supplies for several weeks, Australian officials said.
“雪龙号”称自己可能被冰块困住了之后，澳大利亚海事官员命令“南极光号”留在该地区。周六，中国船员告诉澳大利亚当局，“雪龙号”突围的尝试已经失败。但澳大利亚官员称，“雪龙号”没有直接危险，并有可维持数周的食物供应。
The senior crew members of the Chinese and Russian vessels said they no longer needed assistance from the Aurora Australis, with the 52 rescued expedition members, left for Casey Station, an Australian base in Antarctica, to complete a resupply, and then on to Hobart, in Tasmania, Australian officials said.
澳大利亚官员称，中国和俄罗斯船只的高级船员都表示不再需要“南极光号”的支援，因为搭载着52名获救探险队成员的“南极光号”已动身前往澳大利亚的南极科考站凯西站(Casey Station)完成补给任务，该船随后将前往塔斯马尼亚的霍巴特。
A reporter for Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, sent a report from the Xue Long on Saturday that said all crew and passengers on board the Chinese vessel “are safe and making efforts to get out of trouble.” The ship was surrounded by heavy ice floes and was 13 miles from an ice-free area.
周六，中国国家通讯社新华社的一名记者从“雪龙号”发回报道称，船上所有的船员和乘客“安全，正在积极寻求脱困”。船被厚厚的冰层包围，离无冰区有13英里（约合21公里）。
Wang Jianzhong, the ship’s captain, said the Xue Long had been surrounded by ice floes pushed by strong winds in the past few days, Xinhua reported. The thickest ice layer measured 10 feet to 13 feet.
据新华社报道，船长王建忠说，过去几天，“雪龙号”一直被强风推动的大浮冰包围着。冰层最厚的地方达到10至13英尺。
President Xi Jinping of China has urged an “all-out effort” to ensure the safety of those aboard the Xue Long, Xinhua reported. Prime Minister Li Keqiang has told the crew members and passengers to stay calm and wait for an opportunity to get out of trouble, the report said.
新华社称，中国国家主席习近平敦促“全力”保障“雪龙号”乘客的安全。总理李克强告诉船员和乘客要保持冷静，等待脱困时机。
Xinhua also reported Sunday that China planned to build a new icebreaker, one with blades at the bow and stern, and able to cut ice five feet thick. Qu Tanzhou, the director of the Chinese Arctic and Antarctic Administration, said the ship would be a “mobile research station.” The Xue Long was built by Ukraine and deployed by China in 1994. It was designed to transport supplies to Chinese research stations in Antarctica, Xinhua reported.
周日，新华社还报道称中国计划建造一艘新的破冰船，在船头和船尾都装备破冰刀，可破1.5米厚浮冰。国家海洋局极地考察办公室主任曲探宙说，这艘船将成为一个“移动科考站”。“雪龙号”由乌克兰建造，1994年由中国投入使用。新华社报道称，它是为了向中国的南极科考站运送物资而建造的。
Australian officials said they first asked the United States Coast Guard for help on Friday. The Coast Guard officially accepted the request and released its vessel to the Australians for the search-and-rescue efforts at 8:30 a.m. on Saturday. The Polar Star was scheduled to leave Sydney on Sunday after taking on supplies, and it would take about seven days to reach Commonwealth Bay in Antarctica, depending on weather and ice conditions.
澳大利亚官员称，周五，他们首次向美国海岸警卫队(United States Coast Guard)发出了救援请求。海岸警卫队正式接受了他们的请求，并于周六上午8:30派出船只，供澳大利亚人实施搜救之用。按计划，“北极星号”将于周日完成补给后离开悉尼，并在大约七天后抵达南极洲“联邦湾”(Commonwealth Bay)，具体时间将取决于天气状况和冰情。
The 122-meter Polar Star is one of the largest ships in the Coast Guard fleet and has 140 crew members.
长122米的“北极星号”是海岸警卫队最大的船只之一，共有船员140人。