WASHINGTON — A festering conflict between the Central Intelligence Agency and its congressional overseers broke into the open Tuesday when Senator Dianne Feinstein, chairman of the intelligence committee and one of the C.I.A.’s staunchest defenders, delivered an extraordinary denunciation of the agency, accusing it of withholding information about its treatment of prisoners and trying to intimidate committee staff members investigating the detention program.
华盛顿——中央情报局（Central Intelligence Agency，简称中情局）与其国会监管机构之间不断发酵的矛盾周二公开化。当天，情报委员会主席参议员黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)对中情局提出了不同寻常的严厉谴责，指责它隐瞒有关其如何对待囚犯的信息，以及恐吓负责调查拘留项目的委员会成员。范斯坦曾是中情局最坚定的捍卫者之一。
Describing what she called a “defining moment” for the oversight of American spy agencies, Ms. Feinstein said the C.I.A. had removed documents from computers used by Senate Intelligence Committee staff members working on a report about the agency’s detention program, searched the computers after the committee completed its report and referred a criminal case to the Justice Department in an attempt to thwart their investigation.
在描述被她称为美国情报机构监管工作的“决定性时刻”时，范斯坦说，中情局从参议院情报委员会成员使用的计算机中删除了一些文件——这些成员正在编写一份关于中情局拘留项目的报告；在委员会完成报告之后搜查了这些计算机；并且为了妨碍委员会实施调查，向司法部提交了一宗刑事诉讼。
The 6,300-page report has been at the center of a bitter dispute between the committee and the agency, which says it contains many inaccuracies and wants them to be corrected before it is released.
这份6300页的报告已经成为情报委员会和中情局之间激烈争议的核心所在。中情局说，该报告包含许多错误，希望委员会在发布报告前把它们纠正过来。
Ms. Feinstein’s disclosures came a week after it was first reported that the C.I.A. last year had monitored computers used by her staff in an effort to learn how the committee may have gained access to the agency’s own internal agency review of the detention and interrogation program that became perhaps the most criticized part of the American government’s response to the Sept. 11 attacks.
范斯坦披露上述情况的一个星期前，首次有报道称，中情局去年监控了她手下员工所使用的电脑，目的是了解委员会是如何获得中情局自己对拘留和审讯项目的内部审核报告的。该项目可能是美国政府对“9·11”袭击的应对行动中，受到最多批评的一个项目。
Ms. Feinstein said the internal review bolstered the conclusions of the committee’s still-classified report on the program, which President Obama officially ended in January 2009 after sharply criticizing it during the 2008 presidential campaign.
范斯坦说，中情局的这份内部审核报告支持了委员会关于该项目的报告中的一些结论。情报委员会的报告目前仍未解密。奥巴马总统2009年1月正式终结了这一项目，此前，他在2008年的总统竞选中痛斥了这一项目。
For an intelligence community already buffeted by controversies over electronic surveillance and armed drone strikes, the rupture with Ms. Feinstein, one of its closest congressional allies, could have broad ramifications for the entire American intelligence apparatus.
中情局已经受困于电子监控和武装无人机袭击引发的争议，这家情报机构与其最亲密的国会盟友范斯坦之间的争吵，可能会对整个美国情报系统造成广泛的影响。
“Feinstein has always pushed the agency in private and defended it in public,” said Amy B. Zegart, who studies intelligence issues at Stanford University. “Now she is skewering the C.I.A. in public. This is a whole new world for the C.I.A.”
在斯坦福大学(Stanford University)研究情报问题的埃米·B·泽加特(Amy B. Zegart)说，“范斯坦一直在私下里对该机构施压，在公开场合为它辩护。现在，她公开批评了中情局。中情局正面临着一个全新的局面。”
Ms. Feinstein, who had refused to comment on the dispute between the C.I.A. and her committee, took the Senate floor on Tuesday morning to say the agency’s actions had breached constitutional provisions for the separation of powers and “were a potential effort to intimidate.”
范斯坦一度曾拒绝对中情局和她所领导的委员会之间的争执发表评论。她周二上午在参议院说，中情局的做法违反了权力分立的宪法规定，“是潜在的威胁性举动”。
“How this will be resolved will show whether the Intelligence Committee can be effective in monitoring and investigating our nation’s intelligence activities, or whether our work can be thwarted by those we oversee,” she said.
她说，“这个问题的解决方式将显示出中情局能否有效监控和调查我们国家的情报活动，以及我们的工作是否会被我们监管的对象所阻挠。”
Hours later, John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director, forcefully denied Ms. Feinstein’s assertions that the agency had carried out a broad effort to spy on the committee’s work.
几个小时后，中情局局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)强有力地反驳了范斯坦的说法，即该机构开展了大规模行动来刺探委员会的工作。
“Nothing could be further from the truth,” Mr. Brennan said in response to questions during an appearance at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington.”
在华盛顿的美国对外关系委员会露面时，布伦南面对问题回答说，“没有什么比这更虚假的了。”
In her 45-minute speech Ms. Feinstein gave the fullest public account of the years of back-room jousting between her committee and the C.I.A. over the agency’s detention program, and its use of secret prisons and brutal interrogation techniques like waterboarding that critics described as torture.
在45分钟的演讲中，范斯坦讲述了她领导的委员会和中情局多年以来的暗中角力，这是迄今为止对双方矛盾最全面的公开描述。这些争议涉及中情局的拘留项目，以及该机构使用的秘密监狱和残酷审讯方法，比如被一些批评者认为属于酷刑的坐水凳(waterboarding)。
The dispute came to a head in mid-January, when Mr. Brennan told members of the committee that the agency had carried out a search of computers used by committee investigators at a C.I.A. facility in Northern Virginia, where the committee was examining documents the agency had made available for its report.
这场争议在1月中旬进入了白热化阶段，当时，布伦南告诉委员会成员，中情局搜查了情报委员会调查人员在弗吉尼亚北部一处中情局办公设施所使用的计算机。委员会在那里工作是为了查阅中情局披露的文件，从而编写报告。
Ms. Feinstein said on Tuesday that during the meeting, Mr. Brennan told her that the C.I.A. had searched a “walled-off committee network drive containing the committee’s own internal work product and communications” and that he was going to “order further forensic evidence of the committee network to learn more about activities of the committee’s oversight staff.”
范斯坦周二说，布伦南在会上告诉她，中情局搜查了一个“受到保护的委员会网络硬盘，其中包含委员会自己的内部工作成果和通讯记录”，他打算“获得更多有关委员会网络的司法证据，从而更多地了解委员会监管成员的活动。”
The C.I.A. had carried out the search to determine whether committee investigators may have gained unauthorized access to the internal review of the detention program that the agency had carried out without informing the committee. Ms. Feinstein on Tuesday vigorously disputed this allegation, saying that the document had been included — intentionally or not — as part of a dump of millions of pages the C.I.A. had provided for the intelligence committee.
中情局开展这次调查是为了确定，委员会调查人员是否在未授权的情况下获得了有关拘留项目的中情局内部审核报告。这份审核报告是中情局在没有通知委员会的前提下偷偷完成的。范斯坦周二激烈地反驳了这一说法，称这份文件——无论是否刻意为之——包括在中情局提供给委员会的大量文件之中。
Mr. Brennan, in a January letter to Ms. Feinstein that a government official who did not want to be identified released on Tuesday, said that the committee had not been entitled to the internal review because it contained “sensitive, deliberative, pre-decisional C.I.A. material”— and therefore was protected under executive privilege considerations.
布伦南在1月写给范斯坦的信中说，委员会无权获得中情局的内部审核报告，因为报告中包含“敏感的、审议中的、并非最终结论的中情局信息”，因此，基于行政特权方面的考虑，该报告是受到保护的。这封信是由一名不愿透露身份的政府官员披露的。
The C.I.A.’s acting general counsel has referred to the matter to the Justice Department as a possible criminal offense, a move Ms. Feinstein called a strong-arm tactic by someone with a conflict of interest in the case.
中情局的代理总法律顾问把这个问题作为可能属于刑事犯罪的案件提交给了司法部。范斯坦说，此举是在本案中存在利益关系的某个人所实施的蛮横伎俩。