After years of growing concern about obesity among children, federal researchers have found the clearest evidence yet that the epidemic may be turning a corner in young children from low-income families.
多年来，人们对儿童肥胖问题的担忧日益加深。但现在美国研究人员发现，有非常清楚的证据显示，在低收入家庭中，幼儿肥胖问题有所缓解。
The obesity rate among preschool-age children from poor families fell in 19 states and United States territories between 2008 and 2011, federal health officials said Tuesday — the first time a major government report has shown a consistent pattern of decline for low-income children after decades of rising rates.
联邦卫生​​官员本周二表示，在19个州和其他一些美国领土上，贫困家庭学龄前儿童的肥胖率在2008年至2011年间出现了下降。这是首次有一份重要的政府报告显示，低收入家庭儿童的肥胖率在经过几十年的上升之后，呈现了一致的下降模式。
Children from poor families have had some of the nation’s highest rates of obesity. One in eight preschoolers in the United States is obese. Among low-income children, it is one in seven. The rate is much higher for blacks (one in five) and for Hispanics (one in six).
在美国，贫困家庭儿童的肥胖率是最高的。每八个美国学龄前儿童中就有一个肥胖。在低收入家庭的儿童中，每七个中就有一个。在黑人（五分之一）和西语裔（六分之一）人口中，这个比例则高得多。
Several cities have reported modest drops among school-age children, offering hints of a change in course. But gains were concentrated among whites and children from middle- and upper-income families, and were not consistent across the country.
已经有几个城市表示，其学龄儿童的肥胖率小幅下降，这为正在发生的变化提供了一些蛛丝马迹。但这些改善集中在白人和中高收入家庭的儿童中，而且在不同的地区，情况也不一致。
“We’ve seen isolated reports in the past that have had encouraging trends, but this is the first report to show declining rates of obesity in our youngest children,” said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which prepared the report. “We are going in the right direction for the first time in a generation.”
托马斯·R·弗里登(Thomas R. Frieden)医生是撰写这份报告的疾​​病预防控制中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的主任。他说：“之前，我们也看到过一些个别例子，显示了向好趋势，  但是，这是第一份表明美国婴幼儿肥胖率下降的报告。”“这是过去几十年中第一次在朝着正确的方向前进。”
The cause of the decline remains a mystery, but researchers offered theories, like an increase in breast-feeding, a drop in calories from sugary drinks, and changes in the food offered in federal nutrition programs for women and children. In interviews, parents suggested that they have become more educated in recent years, and so are more aware of their families’ eating habits and of the health problems that can come with being overweight.
下降的原因仍然是一个谜，但研究人员进行了一些推测，比如母乳喂养增加了，含糖饮料的热量下降了，以及联邦妇幼营养项目提供的食物改变了。在接受采访时，家长们表示，近年来他们对肥胖的了解增加了，因此对家人的饮食习惯，以及超重可能带来的健康问题更加留心。
Health officials noted a small decline in the national rate for low-income children for the first time in December, but they did not regard it as important because they lacked a geographic breakdown to show whether the pattern had taken hold in many states.
去年12月，卫生官员发现全美低收入家庭儿童肥胖率第一次出现了小幅下降，但没有把这当成大事，因为当时没有按地理位置划分的数据，因而无法判断这是否在很多州形成了趋势。
The new report, based on the country’s largest set of health data for children, used weight and height measurements from 12 million children ages 2 to 4 who participate in federally funded nutrition programs, to provide the most detailed picture of obesity among low-income Americans.
这份新的报告建立在美国最大的儿童健康数据集的基础上，为美国低收入家庭幼儿的肥胖状况提供了最详细的图景；它使用的体重和身高测量值，来自于1200万参与联邦政府资助的营养项目的2到4岁儿童。
It included data from 40 states, as well as the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands. Ten states were not included because of incomplete data. Trained health professionals took the children’s measurements.
报告中的数据来自40个州，以及哥伦比亚特区，波多黎各，和美属维尔京群岛。有10个州因为数据不完整，没有被纳入其中。孩子们的身高体重则由训练有素的卫生专业人员测量。
“This is the first time we have this many states in the U.S. showing a decline,” said Heidi Blanck, a senior researcher at the C.D.C. “Until now, it has been a patchwork.”
美国疾病控制与预防中心的高级研究员海蒂·布兰克(Heidi Blanck)说：“这是第一次，在美国很多个州都出现了下降。在此之前，各州的数字有升有降，参差不齐。”
Researchers last analyzed these data in 2009, when only 9 states and territories had obesity declines and 24 had increases. In the report on Tuesday, the proportions were reversed, with only 3 states experiencing increases and 18 states and the Virgin Islands showing declines; 19 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico were flat. The declines were modest: Most states dropped by less than 1 percentage point.
研究人员上次分析这种数据是在2009年，当时肥胖率下降的州和地区只有9个，增加的有24个。在周二的报告中，这个比例颠倒过来， 只有3个州出现了上升，18个州和维尔京群岛都下降了，19个州以及哥伦比亚特区和波多黎各与之前持平。下降的幅度并不大：大多数州降了不到一个百分点。
Researchers agreed that the decline was real and held good implications for future health in America. Children who are overweight or obese between age 3 and 5 are five times as likely to be overweight or obese as adults, creating a higher risk of heart disease, stroke, diabetes and cancer.
研究人员一致认为这种下降是真实存在的，会对美国未来的健康状况产生正面影响。在3到5岁间存在超重或肥胖的儿童，成年后超重或肥胖的可能性是一般人的5倍，并导致罹患心脏病、中风、糖尿病和癌症风险增加。
But there was little consensus on why the decline might be happening.
但是为什么会出现这种下降，各方看法不一。
Children now consume fewer calories from sugary beverages than they did in 1999, Dr. Blanck said. More women are breast-feeding, which can lead to healthier weight gain for young children. Federal researchers have also chronicled a drop in overall calories for children in the past decade, down by 7 percent for boys and 4 percent for girls, but health experts said those declines were too small to make much difference.
布兰克说，如今的儿童通过甜饮料摄入的热量比1999年时少了。母乳喂养的女性增加了，让幼儿可以更健康地增重。联邦研究人员通过近十年的记录发现，儿童的热量摄入总体上是下降的，男孩下降7%，女孩4%，但是健康专家称这样的下降幅度太小，不会带来什么变化。
Another explanation is that some combination of state, local and federal policies aimed at reducing obesity is starting to have an effect. Michelle Obama has led a push to change young children’s eating and exercise habits and 10,000 child care centers across the country have signed on.
还有一种解释是，来自地方政府、州政府，及联邦政府的一些针对减少肥胖问题的政策组合开始见效。米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)一直在倡议改变儿童的饮食和锻炼习惯，现在，全美已经有1万家托儿所加入了这场行动。
Many scientists doubt that anti-obesity programs actually work, but proponents of the programs say a broad set of policies applied systematically over a period of time can affect behavior.
许多科学家对反肥胖项目的实效存在怀疑，但这些项目的倡导者说，系统地实施一整套广泛的政策，一段时间下来对行为是能够产生影响的。
“We can’t prove what are the changes in environment and policy that led to” the declining rates, Dr. Frieden said. But he added that it was hard to believe that the government policies now in place “aren’t having a big role here.”
“我们无法证明是环境和政策的哪些改变造成了”肥胖率下降，弗里登说。但是他也认为，很难相信目前实施的政府策略“没有起到重要作用。”
Tom Baranowski, a professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine who has been skeptical about government interventions, said obesity has as much to do with genes as it does with behavior. “It could be that we are hitting some sort of a biological limit,” he said, in which “all those who are genetically predisposed to being obese already are.”
贝勒医学院(Baylor College of Medicine)儿科教授汤姆·巴兰诺夫斯基(Tom Baranowski)对政府干预一直持怀疑态度，他说基因和行为一样是跟肥胖相关的因素。“可能是我们达到了某种生物极限，”他说，“所有基因上存在肥胖倾向的人都已经肥胖了。”
At the Union Baptist Harvey Johnson Head Start, a bright preschool in Baltimore, the focus is on behavior. Children now get health lessons, field trips to a grocery store, healthier meals and an hour of exercise a day on a new jungle gym. Instructors measure children’s height and weight and a nutritionist counsels parents. The income threshold for a family of three is under $20,000.
一个气氛活跃的学前教育机构、巴尔的摩的联盟浸礼教徒哈维·约翰逊启智学校(Union Baptist Harvey Johnson Head Start)把重点放在了行为上。孩子们会上健康课程，去食品杂货店作实地考察，吃更健康的食物，每天在一个新建的攀爬架上锻炼一小时。教师会测量孩子的身高和体重，还有一个营养师会向父母提供建议。这间学校所要求的三口之家家庭收入上限是2万美元。
The share of the school’s approximately 250 children who were obese or overweight fell to 33 percent in 2013, from 35 percent in 2010.
这所学校共有约250名儿童。在2013年，学校肥胖或超重儿童的比率从2010年的35%下降到了33%。
In interviews, parents agreed that encouragement from child care programs like Union Baptist, as well as warnings from doctors, had helped. But just as important, they said, were health worries that have taken hold in low-income communities because of the epidemics of obesity and diabetes.
在采访中家长都认为，像联盟浸礼学校这样的托儿项目给予的激励，以及来自医生的警告，都是有帮助的。但是他们说，肥胖和糖尿病的流行在低收入社群中引起的健康担忧是同样重要的。