So, what do you think about those Medicare numbers? What, you haven’t heard about them? Well, they haven’t been front-page news. But something remarkable has been happening on the health-spending front, and it should (but probably won’t) transform a lot of our political debate.
那些联邦医疗保险(Medicare)数据，你觉得怎么样？什么，你还没见着？嗯，它们的确没上过新闻头版。但是，在医疗支出方面发生了一些引人注目的事情，这些事应该（但可能不会）极大地改变我们的政治争论。
The story so far: We’ve all seen projections of giant federal deficits over the next few decades, and there’s a whole industry devoted to issuing dire warnings about the budget and demanding cuts in Socialsecuritymedicareandmedicaid. Policy wonks have long known, however, that there’s no such program, and that health care, rather than retirement, was driving those scary projections. Why? Because, historically, health spending has grown much faster than G.D.P., and it was assumed that this trend would continue.
目前的情况：我们都看到了对未来几十年出现巨额联邦赤字的预测，有整整一个产业，不干别的，只管发布有关预算的紧急警报，并要求对“社会安全福利联邦医疗保险联邦医疗补助”进行削减。然而死抠政策的呆子们一向知道，根本不存在这样的项目，而那些可怕的预测是由医保而不是退休驱动的。为什么？因为从历史上看，医疗支出增长比GDP增长要快得多，他们因此假定这种趋势会继续。
But a funny thing has happened: Health spending has slowed sharply, and it’s already well below projections made just a few years ago. The falloff has been especially pronounced in Medicare, which is spending $1,000 less per beneficiary than the Congressional Budget Office projected just four years ago.
但是有个搞笑的事情发生了：医疗支出增长大幅放缓，已经大大低于仅在几年前做出的预测。这种下滑在联邦医疗保险中体现得格外明显，单个受益人支出比国会预算办公室(Congressional Budget Office)四年前的预测已经少了1000美元。
This is a really big deal, in at least three ways.
这至少在三个方面是很了不得的。
First, our supposed fiscal crisis has been postponed, perhaps indefinitely. The federal government is still running deficits, but they’re way down. True, the red ink is still likely to swell again in a few years, if only because more baby boomers will retire and start collecting benefits; but, these days, projections of federal debt as a percentage of G.D.P. show it creeping up rather than soaring. We’ll probably have to raise more revenue eventually, but the long-term fiscal gap now looks much more manageable than the deficit scolds would have you believe.
首先，那个号称会来的财政危机已经推迟了，也许是无限期推迟。联邦政府还是有赤字，但是已经降下来很多。没错，接下来几年账本上红色的数字可能会再次变大，单单是考虑到婴儿潮一代将要退休并开始领取养老金就知道了；但在目前，对联邦债务与GDP的比率的预测显示，它是缓缓上升的，并没有急升。最终我们可能还是需要有更多的收入，但是长期财政缺口现在看来没那么不可控制了，远没有那些批评财政问题的人说的严重。
Second, the slowdown in Medicare helps refute one common explanation of the health-cost slowdown: that it’s mainly the product of a depressed economy, and that spending will surge again once the economy recovers. That could explain low private spending, but Medicare is a government program, and shouldn’t be affected by the recession. In other words, the good news on health costs is for real.
其次，联邦医疗保险的增长减速，有助于我们驳斥一个对医疗成本增长减速的常见解释，即这主要是经济萧条的产物，一旦经济复苏，支出还会再暴涨的。用这个解释私人支出走低可以，但联邦医保是政府项目，不应该受衰退影响。换句话说，医保成本方面的好消息是实打实的。
But what accounts for this good news? The third big implication of the Medicare cost miracle is that everything the usual suspects have been saying about fiscal responsibility is wrong.
但是这个好消息是怎么来的？联邦医保成本的奇迹给我们的第三个重要启示是，那几位在拿财政责任说事的老面孔全都错了。
For years, pundits have accused President Obama of failing to take on entitlement spending. These accusations always involved magical thinking on the politics, assuming that Mr. Obama could somehow get Republicans to negotiate in good faith if only he really wanted to. But they also implicitly dismissed as worthless all the cost-control measures included in the Affordable Care Act. Inside the Beltway, cost control apparently isn’t considered real unless it involves slashing benefits. One pundit went so far as to say, after the Obama administration rejected proposals to raise the eligibility age for Medicare, “America gets the shaft.”
多年来，专家们指责奥巴马总统没有解决福利支出问题。这些指责永远都会包含对政治的魔幻思考，假定奥巴马有办法让共和党人诚心实意地来协商，只要他有这个意愿。但是同时他们又含沙射影地贬损《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)中的成本控制措施，说它们是毫无意义的。看来华盛顿的人是觉得，成本控制必须要涉及到削减福利，否则就不是真的在控制。奥巴马政府拒绝了提高联邦医保资格年龄限制的方案后，有位专家甚至夸张到说，“美利坚被坑了。”
It turns out, however, that raising the Medicare age would hardly save any money. Meanwhile, Medicare is spending much less than expected, and those Obamacare cost-saving measures are at least part of the story. The conventional wisdom on what is and isn’t serious is completely wrong.
然而现在我们看到，提高联邦医保年龄省不出什么钱来。与此同时，联邦医保支出比预期要低得多，奥巴马医保中的那些节省成本措施至少是起到一部分作用的。关于什么叫严重什么叫不严重的，传统思维是彻底错误的。
While we’re on the subject of health costs, there are two other stories you should know about.
在医疗成本的问题上，还有两个故事你得知道。
One involves the supposed savings from running Medicare through for-profit insurance companies. That’s the way the drug benefit works, and conservatives love to point out that this benefit has ended up costing much less than projected, which they claim proves that privatization is the way to go. But the budget office has a new report on this issue, and it finds that privatization had nothing to do with it. Instead, Medicare Part D is costing less than expected partly because enrollment has been low and partly because an absence of new blockbuster drugs has led to an overall slowdown in pharmaceutical spending.
其中一个涉及通过盈利性保险公司来进行联邦医保可以节省开支的说法。药品补助就是这样运行的，保守派喜欢指出，这种补助最终的成本比预期少了很多，他们认为这证明私有化是正确的选择。但是预算办公室在这个问题上出了一份新报告，发现私有化在里面没起什么作用。实际上，联邦医保的成本低于预期，一部分原因是因为注册人数少，还有一部分是没有新出的热销药物，导致医药支出增长的总体减速。
The other involves the “sticker shock” that opponents of health reform have been predicting for years. Bulletin: It’s still not happening. Over all, health insurance premiums seem likely to rise only modestly next year, and they are on track to be flat or even falling in several states, including Connecticut and Arkansas.
还有一个涉及医保改革反对者多年来一直预言会出现的“价签休克”。公告：它尚没出现。总的来看，医疗保险金到明年看来应该只会有小幅的上涨，而且即将进入不涨不跌的阶段，在几个州甚至会有下降，包括康涅狄格和阿肯色州。