CHARLOTTE, N.C. — A night of violent clashes between authorities and protesters after the fatal police shooting of an African-American man left North Carolina’s largest city on edge Wednesday, as competing narratives began to take hold and residents here braced for the possibility of further unrest.
北卡罗来纳州夏洛特——因为警察开枪打死一名非裔美国男子，当局与抗议者之间的暴力冲突持续了整晚，导致周三当天，北卡罗来纳州最大城市的气氛紧张。相互矛盾的叙述开始产生影响力，本地居民为可能会出现进一步的骚乱做好了准备。
Officials in Charlotte urged calm and reiterated their position that the Tuesday afternoon shooting of the man, Keith L. Scott, 43, occurred after he posed an “imminent deadly threat” to police officers. But at the University City apartment complex where Scott was killed, critics of the city government suggested that investigators were covering up a murder, and cast doubts on the police’s account.
夏洛特的官员呼吁民众冷静，并重申了他们的立场，即周二下午，43岁的男子基思·L·斯科特(Keith L. Scott)在遭到枪击之前，对警察构成了“迫在眉睫的致命威胁”。但在斯科特被杀的大学城公寓大楼，对市政府持批评态度的人士称调查人员在掩盖一起谋杀，并对警方的说法表示怀疑。
At a news conference Wednesday, Kerr Putney, chief of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department, said officers had found the gun that police said Scott had brandished before an officer fatally shot him and were examining police video of the encounter between Scott and officers as Scott stepped out of a car.
警方称，在被一名警察开枪打死之前，斯科特挥舞着一把手枪。在周三的一场新闻发布会上，夏洛特-梅克伦堡警察局(Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department)局长克尔·帕特尼(Kerr Putney)称警察找到了那把枪，并且正在查看警方掌握的一段视频。该视频记录了斯科特下车时与警方的对峙。
“He did have a weapon when he exited the vehicle,” Putney said. “Officers were giving loud, clear verbal commands. The suspect exited the vehicle with a handgun, threatening officers.”
“他下车的时候的确拿着一件武器，”帕特尼说。“警察大声、清楚地发出了口头命令。嫌疑人下车的时候拿着一把手枪，威胁警察。”
While family members of Scott have said that he was unarmed, and was holding only a book, Putney said Wednesday morning, “We did not find a book.”
尽管家人表示斯科特当时并未携带武器，只是拿着一本书，但帕特尼在周三上午表示，“我们没找到书。”
About an hour later, John Barnett, a civil rights activist in Charlotte, said during a raucous news conference that Scott had simply been waiting for his son to arrive home from school.
大约一小时后，夏洛特的民权活动人士约翰·巴尼特(John Barnett)在一场人声鼎沸的新闻发布会上表示，斯科特只是在等儿子放学回家。
“The truth of the matter is, he didn’t point that gun,” Barnett said. “Did he intend to really sit in a vehicle, waiting on his son to get home from school and then plot to shoot a cop if they pulled up on him?”
“事情的真相是，他并没有拿那把枪指着谁，”巴尼特说。“他真的打算在坐在车里等儿子放学回家，然后在谋划如果有警察上来就开枪？”
The chief said that police investigators were reviewing video from officers’ body cameras, but that he did not believe that Brentley Vinson, the officer who police say killed Scott, was wearing a camera at the time of the shooting. Vinson has been placed on administrative leave, the department said. Vinson is black, according to local reports.
警察局长称，警方调查人员正在查看警察随身摄像头拍摄的视频，但他认为枪击事件发生时，布伦特利·文森(Brentley Vinson)——被警方指认为杀死斯科特的警察——并未携带摄像头。该警察局称，文森已被责令行政休假。据当地的新闻报道，文森是黑人。