Take a look back at some of the most popular TV programs of the mid-1960s — “The Dick Van Dyke Show,” “Bewitched,” even “The Beverly Hillbillies” — and what do you see?
回望20世纪60年代中期那些最受欢迎的电视节目，诸如“迪克·范·戴克秀”(The Dick Van Dyke Show)、《家有仙妻》(Bewitched)，甚至《贝弗利山人》(The Beverly Hillbillies)之类的，你会发现什么？
Like today, middle-class Americans typically had washing machines and air-conditioning, telephones and cars. The Internet and video games were not yet invented. But life, over all, did not look that different.
和如今一样，美国中产阶级一般都拥有洗衣机、空调、电话和车子。互联网和电视游戏当时还没发明，但是生活总的来说也没什么两样。
There were TVs and radios in most homes. Millions of people worked in downtown offices and lived in suburbs, connected by multilane highways. Americans’ average life expectancy at birth was 70, only eight years less than it is today.
大多数家庭都拥有电视和收音机。成千上百万人住在郊区，在市区办公室上班，靠多车道高速公路通勤。当时美国人出生时的平均寿命是70岁，只比现在少8岁。
But flash back 50 years earlier. Then, less than half the population lived in cities. Though Ford Model T’s were starting to roll off the assembly line, Americans typically moved around on horse-drawn buggies on dirt or cobblestone roads. Refrigerators or TVs? Most homes weren’t even wired for electricity. And average life expectancy was only 53.
但把时间再向前拨回50年。当时居住在城市的人口还不到一半。尽管福特T型车(Ford Model T)已经出现在流水线上，大多数美国人还是依靠轻便马车出行，在土路或鹅卵石道路上往来。冰箱和电视？大多数家庭甚至还没通电呢。人们的平均寿命是53岁。
Americans like to think they live in an era of rapid and unprecedented change, but this kind of comparison — pitting the momentous changes of the mid-20th century against the seemingly more modest progress of our present era — raises a critical question about the nation’s future prosperity.
美国人往往认为自己生活在一个飞速发展的时代，经历着史无前例的变革，但是，如果把20世纪中期的巨变同当代似乎较为平缓的发展进行对比，就会对这个国家未来的繁荣昌盛产生严重的疑问。
What does this portend for our well-being over the next half century? Has technological progress slowed for good?
这种对比对我们下半个世纪的发展有什么启示呢？技术进步是否会持续减速呢？
The idea that America’s best days are behind us sits in sharp tension with the high-tech optimism radiating from the offices of the technology start-ups and venture capital firms of Silicon Valley. But it lies at the heart of the current political unrest. And it is about to elbow its way forcefully into the national conversation.
“美国最好的岁月已经过去”这个观点与硅谷那些科技初创公司与风投公司散发出的高科技乐观主义显得格格不入。但是这种观念却深深植根在当今的政治焦虑中，肯定会顽强地一路挤进全国议题。
Robert J. Gordon, a professor of economics at Northwestern University who has patiently developed the proposition in a series of research papers over the last few years, has bundled his arguments into an ambitious new book, “The Rise and Fall of American Growth” (Princeton University Press).
过去几年间，西北大学的经济学教授罗伯特·J·戈登(Robert J. Gordon)耐心地把这个命题整理为一系列研究论文，把自己的观点整理为一本雄心勃勃的新书：《美国增长之起落》(The Rise and Fall of American Growth, Princeton University Press)。
The hefty tome, minutely detailed yet dauntingly broad in scope, offers a lively portrayal of the evolution of American living standards since the Civil War. It also adds up to a dispiriting forecast for American prosperity in the decades to come. “This book,” he writes in the introduction, “ends by doubting that the standard of living of today’s youths will double that of their parents, unlike the standard of living of each previous generation of Americans back to the late 19th century.”
这本厚重的巨著充满细节，涉及范围亦是极为广泛，为南北战争之后美国人生活水准的进步描绘了一幅生动的画卷。它还为美国未来几十年的繁荣推算出一个令人沮丧的预言。他在前言中写道：“19世纪末以来，每一代年轻人的生活水平都会超过父母一倍，如今的年轻人还能做到吗，这本书的结尾对此表示怀疑。”
Innovation will trundle along at the same pace of the last 40 years, Professor Gordon predicts. Despite the burst of progress of the Internet era, total factor productivity — which captures innovation’s contribution to growth — rose over that period at about one-third the pace of the previous five decades.
戈登教授预测，创新的脚步仍将和过去40年来一样迟缓。尽管是在互联网大爆炸的时代，这个阶段的全要素生产率（这个指标能体现创新在产值增长中所占的比例）的增速是过去50年的三分之一。
That’s hardly the worst part of the story. The labor force will continue to decline, as aging baby boomers leave the work force and women’s labor supply plateaus. And gains in education, an important driver of productivity that expanded sharply in the 20th century, will contribute little.
这还不是整个故事中最糟糕的部分。随着婴儿潮一代即将退休，女性生育进入停滞期，劳动力还将持续减少。教育收益的贡献将只占一小部分，而在20世纪，教育曾是生产率高速增长的重要推动力。
Moreover, the growing concentration of income means that whatever the growth rate, most of the population will barely share in its fruits. Altogether, Professor Gordon argues, the disposable income of the bottom 99 percent of the population, which has expanded about 2 percent per year since the late 19th century, will expand over the next few decades at a rate little above zero.
此外，收入日益集中意味着，不管增长率有多高，大多数人口将无法分享经济增长的果实。总之，戈登教授认为，自从19世纪末以来，底层99%的人口的可支配收入平均每年增长2%，接下来几十年内的增长率将接近于零。
Professor Gordon’s take on the future is, of course, not infallible. Economists generally agree that future growth will be slowed by the headwinds of demography, education and income distribution. But the productivity slowdown of recent decades was clearly affected by one-time factors, including a shattering financial crisis. He is on less solid ground forecasting weakness decades into the future.
当然，戈登教授认为，对未来的预测并不绝对可靠。经济学家大都认为，未来的经济增长将会因为人口、教育和收入分配方面的不利因素而放缓。但是最近几十年来，生产率的放缓显然受若干一次性的因素影响，包括一次破坏性的金融危机。他预测未来几十年经济衰弱的证据不够充分。
Economists, in fact, have no trustworthy theory of what produces technological breakthroughs. Joel Mokyr, an economic historian who also teaches at Northwestern, argues there are reasons to expect enormous breakthroughs are in the offing.
事实上，经济学家并没有可靠的理论去预测什么因素能导致科技突破。同在西北大学任教的经济史学家乔伊·莫吉尔(Joel Mokyr)认为，有理由期待未来大量突破的到来。
Science has piggybacked on technology ever since Galileo used a telescope to develop a new understanding of the heavens. This new science, in turn, led to new technological innovations.
自从伽利略使用望远镜，拓展了人们对天空的认识以来，科学的进步就一直有赖于技术的发展。而新的科学也会带来技术的创新。
What Professor Gordon fails to account for, Professor Mokyr argues, is that the information technology revolution and other recent developments produced mind-blowing tools and techniques, from gene-sequencing machines to computers that analyze mountains of data at blistering speed. This is creating vast new opportunities for innovation, from health care to materials technology and beyond.
莫吉尔认为，戈登教授没有看到，信息技术的革新与其他最新技术的发展创造出了令人惊叹的工具与技术，从基因测序机到能够瞬间分析大量数据的电脑。这为创新带来大量的新机会，从健康卫生领域到材料技术领域，乃至更多。
“The tools available to science have been improving at a dazzling rate,” he told me. “I’m not sure how, but the world of technology in 30 to 40 years’ time will be vastly different than it is today.”
“可以用在科学上的工具正以日新月异的速度发展，”他告诉我，“我不清楚具体方式，但是在30到40年内，技术的世界就会与如今大不一样。”
Nonetheless, Professor Gordon’s argument is not easy to dismiss. He does not forecast that technological progress will slow to a crawl. His argument, rather, is that the explosion of innovation and prosperity from 1920 through 1970 was a one-time phenomenon. From now on, progress will continue at the more gradual pace of both the last 40 years and the period before 1920.
不管怎样，戈登教授的看法很难忽视。他并不是预测技术进步会像爬行一样缓慢。他的主张其实是说，从1920年到1970年的创新大爆炸乃至繁荣是一次性的现象。从现在开始，技术的进步将以比较平缓的速度进行，就像过去40年或是1920年以前那个阶段一样。
“There is plenty of room in my forecast for evolutionary change,” he told me. “What is lacking is sharp, discrete change.”
“我的预测为进化的改变留出了许多空间，”他告诉我，“缺乏的是深刻、切实的改变。”
He is not the only economist forecasting slower progress, now that the burst of productivity gains of the late 1990s and early 2000s has waned. “Growth in educational attainment, developed-economy R&D intensity and population are all likely to be slower in the future than in the past,” John G. Fernald of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and Charles I. Jones of Stanford wrote in a recent article.
戈登教授并不是唯一一个预测科技进步将会放缓的人，如今20世纪90年代末到21世纪初的生产率增长大爆发已经消退。“教育的增长、发达经济的研发强度与人口都很可能在未来放缓，”旧金山联邦储备银行的约翰·G·费纳尔多(John G. Fernald)与斯坦福的查尔斯·I·琼斯(Charles I. Jones)在近期一篇文章中写道。
Professor Gordon’s view of slowing technological opportunities meshes with other bits of evidence.
戈登教授的关于技术发展放缓的观点亦与其他一些证据相吻合。
Ben S. Bernanke, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve who is now at the Brookings Institution, points out that long-term interest rates have been declining for a very long time. This is in response partly to the accumulation of savings in China and other developing economies, which have been buying Treasury bonds hand over fist. But it also suggests that investors, whether they realize it or not, may agree with Professor Gordon’s proposition.
美联储前主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)如今在布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)工作，他指出长期利率已经历了长时间的下降。这部分是由于中国以及其他发展中经济体内储蓄的积累，它们一直大量购买美国长期国债。但这也表明，投资者不管自己意识到与否，可能都赞同戈登的观点。
“People who invest money in the markets are saying the rate of return on capital investments is lower than it was 15 or 30 years ago,” Mr. Bernanke said. “Gordon’s forecast is not without some market reality.”
“在市场上进行投资的人是在表明，资本投资回报率比15到30年前低了，”伯南克说。“戈登的预测并不是没有市场事实作为基础的。”
Other strands of data point in this direction. Business dynamism, measured by the role of new companies in the economy, appears to be waning. The share of employment in companies less than five years old dropped from about 19 percent in 1982 to 11 percent in 2011.
其他一些数据也指向这个方向。新公司在经济中扮演的角色可以用来衡量经济活力，如今它们的地位也在下降。成立五年以下公司的雇员所占总就业比例从1982年的19%降低到2011年的11%。
Skepticism is warranted, to be sure. Since the time of Thomas Malthus, eras of depressed expectations like our own have inspired predictions of doom and gloom that were proved wrong once economies turned up a few years down the road.
当然，怀疑主义是必要的。自从托马斯·马尔萨斯(Thomas Malthus)以来，一旦经济几年内走下坡路，就会出现像我们这样悲观并导致末日论调的预期，还曾一再被证明是错误的。
“For reasons I have never understood, people like to hear that the world is going to hell,” the economic historian Deirdre N. McCloskey of the University of Illinois, Chicago, wrote in an essay about “Capital in the Twenty-First Century,” the blockbuster about income inequality by the French economist Thomas Piketty. “Yet pessimism has consistently been a poor guide to the modern economic world.”
芝加哥伊利诺斯大学经济史学家戴尔德尔·N·麦克克罗斯基(Deirdre N. McCloskey)为法国经济学家托马斯·皮克迪(Thomas Piketty)的轰动大作《21世纪资本论》(Capital in the Twenty-First Century)撰写的评论中写道，“由于种种我永远无法理解的原因，人们总是喜欢听到‘世界要完’的论调。然而悲观主义总是一个现代经济世界不可靠的指南。”
Optimism, though, is also subject to cognitive biases. It’s not just that the income of our optimistic techno-entrepreneurs is growing faster than gross domestic product. A lot of new innovation — the rockets to vacations in orbit, the Apple Watch and Google Glass — also seems custom-designed for them.
但是，乐观主义也是一种认知偏见。乐观的科技产业企业家们的收入增长比国内总产值的增长还快，不仅如此，很多创新——太空旅游火箭、苹果手表和谷歌眼镜——似乎根本就是为他们量身定制的。
“If you are sitting in Silicon Valley, rich and at the frontier of technology,” said Lawrence F. Katz of Harvard, “it is probably true that things are getting better.”
“如果你身在硅谷，有钱，处于科技的最前沿，”哈佛大学的劳伦斯·F·卡茨(Lawrence F. Katz)说，“一切对你来说可能真的是越来越好。”
The same can’t always be said for the rest of us.
这种话不一定总能适用于我们其他人。