As officials in charge of American policy toward North Korea during the Clinton and Obama administrations, we met last month in Europe with senior representatives of the North Korean government to discuss relations between our countries. We believe that the current impasse, which only buys time for North Korea to develop its nuclear program, is unstable and that matters will only get worse if not addressed directly. It’s time for the Obama administration to reopen dialogue with Pyongyang.
上个月，我们作为曾在克林顿和奥巴马政府中负责美国对朝政策的官员，与朝鲜政府的高级代表在欧洲会晤，讨论两国关系。我们认为当前的僵局是不稳定的，而且只会让朝鲜获得发展核计划的时间，如果不去直截了当地解决问题，事情只会越来越糟。奥巴马政府应当尽快与平壤方面重启对话。
The United States government has not had direct contact with a senior North Korean official for more than a year. Our private and unofficial meetings were an important opportunity to review the state of the regime’s thinking on bilateral relations and its willingness to give up its nuclear weapons program. The North Koreans — who are longtime participants in government-to-government talks and well plugged-in to their country’s leadership — stated that if dialogue were to resume, their nuclear weapons program would be on the negotiating table. They provided preliminary thinking on a phased approach that would start with a freeze of their program and end with denuclearization.
在过去一年多时间里，美国政府和朝鲜高级官员一直未曾有过直接的接触。我们这种私下进行的非正式会晤提供了一个契机，让我们能够审视朝鲜对于双边关系的思路及其放弃核武计划的意愿。与我们会晤的朝方人员长期参与政府间谈判，并且与朝鲜领导层关系密切。他们宣称，只要重启对话，他们可以把核武计划摆上谈判桌。他们还就一个分阶段的方案提出了初步设想：先冻结核武计划，最终实现无核化。
That process, they said, would have to include steps by America, such as the conclusion of a peace treaty to replace the temporary armistice that ended the Korean War, and the lifting of economic sanctions imposed on the North by the United States since the end of that war.
他们表示，在上述进程中，美国也必须采取某些举措：比如缔结一项和平协议，以取代终结了朝鲜战争的临时停战协议；同时解除美国自战争结束以来一直对朝鲜实施的经济制裁。
We stressed that Pyongyang needs to indicate clearly the concrete steps it would take both before and immediately after a return to the negotiating table. The North Koreans told us that they were prepared to enter talks without preconditions and would consider some confidence-building measures once talks begin.
我们强调，平壤需要清楚地说明自己在重返谈判桌之前以及随后所要采取的具体措施。朝方人员则告诉我们：他们愿意在不预设条件的情况下展开谈判，并将在开启谈判后考虑某些有助于建立信任的举措。
The Obama administration says that the North must take steps to demonstrate its seriousness about denuclearization before, not after, dialogue resumes. Washington also has in mind steps that appear to be more far-reaching than those the North Koreans are considering, such as a moratorium on long-range rocket tests. Pyongyang wrecked a February 2012 agreement by launching a rocket later that year, claiming that space launches were allowed.
奥巴马政府称，朝鲜必须在重启会谈之前——而非之后——拿出行动，展现自己在无核化方面的诚意。华盛顿希望朝鲜采取的举措，范围似乎比朝鲜正在考虑的更深更广，比如暂停远程火箭试验。平壤在2012年发射了一枚火箭，从而撕毁了该年2月刚刚签订的一项协议。朝鲜宣称发射空间运载火箭是协议允许的行为。
Overall, the Obama administration’s position reflects a healthy skepticism about the North Koreans, particularly given what happened in 2012.
总体而言，奥巴马政府的立场反映出对于朝鲜的合理怀疑，尤其是鉴于2012年发生的事情。
Still, here we sit, with multiple dangers threatening both countries and the region, while Pyongyang moves ahead with its nuclear program. Whatever risks might be associated with new talks, they are less than those that come with doing nothing. Pyongyang’s nuclear stockpile will continue to expand, the North will continue to perfect its missile delivery systems, the danger of weapons-of-mass-destruction exports will grow, and the threat to U.S. allies will increase.
可话说回来，我们坐在这里什么都不做，而平壤在继续推进核武计划，多重危险威胁着美朝两国乃至东北亚地区。无论新的会谈有可能带来怎样的风险，什么也不做的风险更大。平壤的核武库会继续扩充，朝鲜将继续完善其导弹投送系统，出口大规模杀伤性武器的危险将会增长，对美国盟友的威胁也会加大。
We recognize the pitfalls of negotiating with Pyongyang. The North Koreans have not abided by many of their past commitments. The United States should enter talks with the North with its eyes wide open.
我们知道与平壤谈判是有风险的。朝鲜方面没有遵守过去的许多承诺。美国投入和朝鲜的谈判时，必须睁大双眼。
While Washington is right to press Beijing to take a firmer hand with Pyongyang given their close ties with the North, we would be wrong to assume that the Chinese will solve this problem for us. The Chinese have their own concerns. They don’t want North Korea to have nuclear weapons, but they also don’t want North Korea to collapse under the weight of sanctions.
考虑到中国与朝鲜关系密切，华盛顿向北京施压，敦促其以更强硬的立场对待平壤，这样做是对的；但如果以为中国人会帮我们解决问题，那就错了。中国方面有自己的关切。他们不希望朝鲜拥有核武器，但也不希望朝鲜在制裁的重压下崩溃。
It is in the interests of both Pyongyang and Washington to show the flexibility needed to jump-start discussions. The United States should relax its requirement that North Korea meet its demands before any dialogue begins. Pyongyang should be ready to take steps not only at the very beginning of talks but also beforehand.
平壤和华盛顿展现出启动会谈所需要的灵活性，符合双方的利益。美国应该放松自己提出的条件，即朝鲜必须在任何对话之前满足美国的要求。而平壤应该准备好不仅在谈判启动之初，而且在谈判开始之前拿出一些行动。
A confidence-building step that Pyongyang could take would be to release Kenneth Bae, a U.S. citizen held in a North Korean prison. It should follow up with other moves like a moratorium on testing nuclear weapons and a suspension of operations at its main nuclear facility intended to produce bomb-making material, to be verified by international inspectors. Another important step by the North would be an end to missile tests, including “space launch vehicles.” Finally, Pyongyang should reaffirm the pledge to denuclearize that it made in a 2005 agreement among the United States, China, North Korea, South Korea, Russia and Japan.
平壤可以采取的有助于建立信任的举措之一，就是释放被关押在监狱里的美国公民肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)。随后应该是其他一些举动，比如暂停核武器试验，暂停其用于生产核弹所需材料的主要核设施的运行，并由国际检查人员核实。朝鲜所要采取的另一个重要举措是停止导弹试验，包括“空间运载火箭”试验。最后，平壤还应该重申自己的无核化承诺。美国、中国、朝鲜、韩国、俄罗斯和日本曾在2005年达成一项协议，朝鲜在该协议中做出了这一承诺。
Once talks begin, Washington should embrace two guiding principles. First, any new agreements must be based on “simultaneous, verified steps.” That approach means no unilateral concessions or moves but rather moving forward in lock step. Second, America should move quickly to talks on a peace treaty that formally ends the Korean War and improves our bilateral relationship, which are among the North’s main concerns.
一旦会谈得以启动，华盛顿应该奉行两项指导原则。第一，任何新协议都必须基于“同步的、得到核实的步骤”。这一方式意味着双方需要步调一致地行动，而不是单方面的让步或者举动。第二，美国应该尽快采取行动，就达成一项正式终结朝鲜战争的和平协议，以及改善美朝双边关系展开谈判。这些是朝鲜方面的主要关切。
Although President Obama and his national security team are busy with issues far from the Korean Peninsula, we believe it is imperative that the United States turn its attention to quickly resolving this dangerous situation.
尽管奥巴马总统和他的国家安全顾问团队目前所忙于的事务与朝鲜半岛相去甚远，但我们认为，美国必须把注意力迅速转移到解决该地区的危险局势上来。