WESLEY CHAPEL, Fla. — There’s a sticker on the door of the Grove 16 Theater just outside Tampa: no weapons.
佛罗里达州韦斯利查珀尔——格罗夫16号影院(Grove 16 Theater)就在坦帕市外，影院的大门上贴着一则告示，上面写着：禁止携带武器。
Curtis J. Reeves Jr. must have walked right past it on Jan. 13 when he went to a matinee with his wife, carrying a .380 handgun.
今年1月13日，当小柯蒂斯·J·里夫斯(Curtis J. Reeves Jr.)和妻子到这里看午后场电影时，他绝对是走过了这张告示的，当时，他带着一支点380手枪。
Judging by later events, Mr. Reeves, a 71-year old retired police captain, seemed more interested in another notice that flashed across the movie screen, the one that warned against talking on the phone or texting during the movie. That message was announced a few times, once by on-screen M&Ms that walked and talked, and again in a way that made clear that using a phone could get a patron ejected from the cinema.
根据之后发生的事件判断，71岁的退休警长里夫斯似乎对电影屏幕上闪现的另一则提示更有兴趣，那是一则提醒观众不要在观影期间打电话或发短信的通知。这条信息播出了数次，一次出自屏幕上边走边说话的M&M巧克力豆小人，另一次则是以一种方式明确表示，使用手机的观众可能会被强制带离影院。
Before the movie “Lone Survivor” had even begun, Mr. Reeves had killed a phone user, was in handcuffs and faced the prospect of spending the rest of his life in prison. In a moment that instantly sparked a national debate about legal firearms in public spaces, a former homicide detective had snuffed the life from a Desert Storm veteran on a movie date with his wife.
电影《孤独的生还者》(Lone Survivor)甚至还没开始，里夫斯就杀死了一名使用手机的观众，被戴上手铐，面临在狱中度过余生的可能。短短一瞬间，一名前凶杀案探员杀死了一位曾参加沙漠风暴行动(Desert Storm)、和妻子一起看电影的退伍老兵，这立刻引发了一场全国上下有关在公共场所携带合法枪械的讨论。
The tale as told by the Pasco County sheriff’s office, a witness and the victim’s friends is of a fatal clash between two Navy veterans who happened to sit near each other in a movie theater. A woman would later come forward and tell prosecutors that two weeks earlier at the movies, Mr. Reeves had menaced her for texting as well, describing a man in sharp contrast to the generous and kind neighbor the people on his block describe.
根据帕斯科县警长办公室、一名目击证人和遇害者友人的说法，这是一起发生在两名海军老兵之间的致命冲突，事发时，两人碰巧在同一家影院里，坐在临近的座位上。一名女子后来会站出来对检察官说，早在两周之前，里夫斯就曾在影院里因为她发短信而恐吓她，她的描述和里夫斯左邻右舍口中所说的慷慨友善的那个人，形成了鲜明的对比。
“What’s he bringing a gun to the movies for?” said Charles Cummings, a 68-year-old former Marine who was in the row ahead of Mr. Reeves and described him as “aggressive.” “That’s a happy place. No one is going to kill you there, except that he did go there and kill someone.”
曾在海军陆战队服役的、68岁的查尔斯·卡明斯(Charles Cummings)说，“他为什么要带枪去电影院？那是一个欢乐的地方。没人会想在那里杀人，不过他除外，他确实去那里杀了人。”卡明斯坐在里夫斯的前排，他说里夫斯“态度蛮横”。
“Lone Survivor,” a movie about a covert Navy SEAL operation, was set to start at 1:20 that Monday afternoon. The lights had dimmed halfway. The previews were being shown while stragglers made their way to the plush seats.
《孤独的生还者》有关海豹突击队(Navy SEAL)的一次秘密行动，原定于那个周一下午的1点20分开映。当时，放映厅的灯光已经变暗。当迟到者摸索着找到自己的豪华座椅时，屏幕上正在放映预告片。
Only about 25 people attended the showing, among them a nurse and an off-duty sheriff’s deputy.
只有25名观众观看这部影片，其中有一名护士和一名休假的副警长。
In front of Mr. Reeves was Chad W. Oulson, 43, of Land O’ Lakes, Fla., a finance manager at a local motorcycle dealership. Mr. Oulson was a 6-foot 4-inch motorcycle enthusiast, whose 22-month-old daughter, Alexis, was at home with a babysitter and not feeling well. So Mr. Oulson defied technology etiquette and texted the sitter. The light from his phone was visible in the semidarkness.
里夫斯的前排座位上是43岁的查德·W·奥尔森(Chad W. Oulson)，他来自佛罗里达州兰奥莱克斯，是当地一家摩托车经销店的财务经理。奥尔森身高6英尺4英寸（1米83左右），是一名摩托车爱好者，他22个月大的女儿亚历克西丝(Alexis)因为身体不适，和保姆待在家中。所以，奥尔森无视了影院对手机使用的限制，给保姆发了短信。在半暗的光线下，他手机屏幕发出的亮光格外明显。
Mr. Cummings remembers Mr. Reeves kicking the seat in front of him.
卡明斯记得，里夫斯踢了他前面的座位。
“He was agitated,” Mr. Cummings said.
卡明斯说，“他显得很烦躁。”
Mr. Reeves asked Mr. Oulson to quit texting. Mr. Oulson kept at it, explaining that he was just communicating about a preschooler. Mr. Reeves left in a huff to get a manager, but he returned alone.
里夫斯让奥尔森停止发短信。奥尔森还是继续发，他解释说，自己只是在就一个幼龄儿童的事进行交流。里夫斯愤愤地离开去找管理人员，不过他一个人回来了。
Mr. Oulson complained about being tattled on, and the two men exchanged more words. The words got louder. That’s when Mr. Oulson made what would turn out to be a fatal move.
奥尔森抱怨说有人告他的状，两人又多说了几句。他们的声音变得更响了。就在此时，奥尔森做出了让自己丧命的举动。
“He stood up,” said Joseph Detrapani, a friend of Mr. Oulson’s, who heard the story later. “That was it.”
奥尔森的朋友、事后听说此事的约瑟夫·德特拉帕尼(Joseph Detrapani)说，“他站了起来。仅此而已。”
This was a boutique theater with rows of large seats that are elevated from one another, with a foot and a half of legroom between them. Mr. Oulson turned to face Mr. Reeves and swung the popcorn bag at his side; kernels struck Mr. Reeves’ face.
这是一家精品影院，有着一排排逐级升高的宽大座椅，两排座椅之间留有一英尺半伸腿的空间。奥尔森转身面对里夫斯，拿起身边的一袋爆米花扔了出去；米花粒打到了里夫斯的脸。
Mr. Reeves, a co-founder of the Tampa Police Department’s first tactical response team, reacted. Struck in the face by what he told police was a “dark object,” he reached for his .380 and fired, just as his son, Matthew, also a police officer, entered the theater. Mr. Oulson’s wife, Nicole, had placed her hand on her husband’s chest and was struck in the finger.
作为坦帕警察局首支战术反应小组的联合创始人，里夫斯做出了反应。他对警方说，他的脸被一件“黑色物体”打中了，他伸手掏出随身携带的点380手枪，开了火。就在此时，他的儿子马修(Matthew)刚好走进影院，他也是一名警察。奥尔森的妻子妮科尔(Nicole)把手挡在了自己丈夫的胸前，手指被击中。
Mr. Oulson was hit once in the chest. The people nearby laid him down on the floor and rested his head on Mr. Cummings’s foot. Mr. Cummings’s son called for help while the nurse in the audience rendered aid.
奥尔森胸口中了一枪。周围的人把他放倒在地，把他的头放在卡明斯的脚上。卡明斯的儿子打电话求助，与此同时，观众中的那名护士主动提供了救助。
Police said Mr. Reeves sat down calmly, put the gun on his lap and stared ahead. A sheriff’s deputy from nearby Sumter County who saw the muzzle flash snatched the weapon from him. Police said Mr. Reeves resisted at first and then acquiesced.
警方说，里夫斯冷静地坐下来，把枪放在腿上，目视前方。来自附近萨姆特县的一名副警长看见枪火，从里夫斯手中夺下了枪。警方表示，里夫斯一开始曾作出反抗，之后放弃了。
His lawyer, Richard Escobar, said Mr. Reeves,  who is charged with second-degree murder, acted in self-defense. He suggested that Mr. Reeves was hit in the face with something other than popcorn, and had every right to defend himself with deadly force.
里夫斯被控犯有二级谋杀罪，但他的律师理查德·埃斯科巴尔(Richard Escobar)说里夫斯的行为是自卫。埃斯科巴尔提出，里夫斯的脸被物体击中了，而且并非爆米花，所以他有权以致命性的武力行动自卫。
Mr. Escobar in court described his client as a person who attends Bible study and has been married to the same woman since 1967. Mr. Reeves, he said, was a commander in the Police Department for almost 17 years and has health problems including bursitis and respiratory ailments.
埃斯科巴尔在法庭上描述道，他的当事人参加《圣经》学习，而且自1967年结婚以来，一直和妻子相守至今。他说，里夫斯在警察局担任指挥官近17年之久，他身体状况不佳，患有粘液囊炎和呼吸系统疾病等病症。
“He has been protecting the community from individuals that do commit crimes,” Mr. Escobar told the judge at a bond hearing last week.
在上周的保释听证会上，埃斯科巴尔对法官说，“他一直在保护这个社区免受某些人的侵扰，而那些人的确会犯罪。”
Mr. Escobar has said that because of his age, Florida law supports Mr. Reeves’ self-defense claim. In Florida, a misdemeanor assault against anyone 65 or older is a felony. And in Florida, a person who has a reasonable fear of great bodily injury or death is not obligated to retreat.
埃斯科巴尔表示，佛罗里达州的法律支持里夫斯的自卫申辩，这是因为他的年龄摆在那儿。在佛罗里达州，攻击65岁及以上年龄老人的不法行为，构成重罪。在这里，如果个人合理地认为，自己面临着遭受巨大人身伤害乃至死亡的威胁，那么他没有义务后退。
“He’s throwing spaghetti against the wall to see which noodle sticks,” said TJ Grimaldi, a lawyer representing Mr. Oulson’s widow, Nicole.
奥尔森的遗孀妮科尔聘请的代理律师TJ·格里马尔迪(TJ Grimaldi)说，“他仿佛是往墙上扔意面，看哪种面能黏住。”
The shooting and Mr. Reeves’ appearance in court, looking dazed in his dark green antisuicide smock, shocked those who know him and describe him as generous and friendly.
里夫斯出庭时，穿着墨绿色的防自杀罩衫，看上去一脸茫然。枪击案和里夫斯出庭时的样子，让认识他的人感到震惊。他们形容里夫斯慷慨、友善。
“He always had a smile on his face,” said Bill Costas, his next-door neighbor in Brooksville, a small town 55 miles north of Tampa. “He is always very decent and very kind to my wife and myself. Although he stressed that he was not present for the dispute and the shooting, Mr. Costas suspects the victim must have been aggressive enough to put Mr. Reeves in fear.
里夫斯的邻居比尔·科斯塔斯(Bill Costas)说，“他总是面带微笑，总是很友善，对我和我的妻子也很和蔼。”他们都住在坦帕市以北55公里处的小镇布鲁克斯维尔。虽然科斯塔斯强调口角和枪击发生时他并不在场，不过他怀疑，遇害者一定是做出了很有挑衅性的行为，才让里夫斯产生了恐惧。
“If everybody would just treat each other with respect,” he said.
他说，“人们就不能彼此尊重一下吗？”
Mr. Reeves’s family declined to comment, as did the management of the theater, part of the Cobb chain.
里夫斯的家人和影院管理方均拒绝置评。这家影院属于科布院线(Cobb)。