JOINT BASE LEWIS-McCHORD, Wash. — Staff Sgt. Robert Bales offered a tearful apology on Thursday for gunning down 16 unarmed Afghan civilians inside their homes, but said he still could not explain why he had carried out one of the worst American war crimes in years.
华盛顿州刘易斯-麦科德联合基地——周四，罗伯特·贝尔斯(Robert Bales)上士为他冲入阿富汗人家中枪杀16名手无寸铁的平民含泪道歉，但他说他仍然无法解释为什么犯下这样的罪，这是多年来美国人犯下的最严重的战争罪行之一。
“What I did is an act of cowardice,” he said, choking up as he sat on the witness stand in a military courtroom here. “I’m truly, truly sorry for those people whose family members I’ve taken away.”
“我所做的是一个懦夫的行为，”他坐在此地一间军事法庭的证人席上哽咽说道。“对于那些被我夺去生命的人，对于他们的家庭，我真的、真的很抱歉。”
The unsworn statement from Sergeant Bales, 40, came on the third day of a hearing to determine whether he should ever be eligible for parole in the March 2012 massacre. In June, he pleaded guilty to slipping away from his combat base in southern Afghanistan and invading the mud-walled compounds where dozens of Afghan civilians slept. He beat and kicked them, chased them from room to room, opened fire on them, and set several of their bodies ablaze.
这是一场针对40岁的贝尔斯上士在2012年3月实施的屠杀进行的听证，将决定他是否能获得保释资格，而上述未经宣誓做出的声明则出现在听证会的第三天。今年6月，他表示认罪，承认自己偷偷地离开了他在阿富汗南部的作战基地，冲入由泥墙包围的院落，那里当时有数十名阿富汗平民正在睡觉。他踢打他们，在一间间房子里追赶他们，向他们开火，并点火焚烧几个人的尸体。
Two days of wrenching testimony from survivors and witnesses painted indelible images of the brutality of Sergeant Bales’ crimes, and their toll on the victims. Bearded Afghan men, who traveled some 7,000 miles to testify in the hearing, spoke of how nearly every member of their families had been taken. A skinny boy told how he cried after seeing his sister shot. A doctor described how a young girl named Zardana could no longer dress herself or go to the bathroom without help.
两天里，幸存者和目击者做出了令人痛心的证词，描绘出一幅幅无法忘却的场景，展示了贝尔斯所犯罪行之残忍，以及这些罪行给受害者带来的巨大伤痛。留胡子的阿富汗男人赶了差不多7000英里（约为11265公里）的路来为听证会作证，讲述他们的家庭成员几乎被杀绝。一个瘦弱的男孩说，他目睹姐妹被枪杀后痛哭不止。一名医生描述了一个叫扎达娜(Zardana)的年轻女孩如何无法再自己穿衣，也无法在没有帮助的情况下去洗手间。
Sergeant Bales sat quietly, his hands often clasped in front of him, during that testimony, sometimes watching as prosecutors displayed video images of the carnage. On Thursday, he said he understood the terrible cost of what he had done.
在这次听证会上，贝尔斯静静地坐着，双手常常在身前紧握，有时也会在公诉人播放屠杀录像的时候看录像。周四，他说他明白自己的所作所为造成了怎样可怕的后果。
“If I could bring their family members back I would in a heartbeat,” he said. “I can’t comprehend their loss. I think about it every time I look at my kids. I know I murdered their family. I took that away from them.”
“如果我能够把他们的家人带回来，我马上就会这么做，”他说。“我无法估量他们所遭受的巨大损失。每次看到我的孩子们时，我就会想起这个问题。我知道我杀了他们的家人。我把亲人从他们身边夺走。”
He spoke tearfully about how he had disgraced his family. And with particular emotion, he apologized for shaming the Army and staining the reputation of the “really good guys, some heroes” who had served alongside him during three deployments to Iraq and one to Afghanistan.
他含泪讲述了自己如何令家人蒙羞。他展现出某种特殊的情绪，为自己令美军蒙羞，玷污了一些“非常好的人，乃至一些英雄”的名声而道歉，在三次派驻伊拉克和一次派驻阿富汗的任务中，这些人曾与他共事。
But his apology — the first time he has publicly expressed sorrow — came without an explanation.
这是他第一次公开表示自己的歉意，但他在道歉中却没有对自己的行为作出解释。
“I don’t know why,” he said.
他说，“我不知道原因。”
Lawyers for Sergeant Bales offered no clues, either. The defense has suggested that he was a broken man who suffered from post-traumatic stress and a traumatic brain injury, a good soldier who had snapped under the strain of four wartime deployments. But they presented no such evidence to the six-person jury weighing whether Sergeant Bales deserves a life sentence with no possibility of parole, or whether he should have a chance at freedom after serving about 20 years in prison. The closing arguments are set for Friday, and then the jury will deliberate.
贝尔斯的律师也没有提供任何线索。他们在辩护中提到，贝尔斯受到创伤后压力症及创伤性脑损伤的折磨，痛苦不堪，这名出色的士兵因为参与四次战争派驻任务而饱受压力，最终崩溃。但他们没有向六人陪审团提供任何相关证据，陪审团负责评定贝尔斯是否应该被判处终身监禁，且无保释可能，或者是否在服刑20年后应给予他获得自由的机会。控辩双方将于周五作出结案陈词，之后陪审团将进行商议。
The few witnesses to speak on his behalf recalled him as a loving son and neighbor, a devoted father, a generous high-school buddy and a brave soldier who endured explosions and bore witnesses to the bloody horrors of Iraq’s insurgency.
为他作证的几个人回忆，说他是一个充满爱心的儿子和邻居，一位慈爱的父亲，一个慷慨大方的高中朋友，一个勇敢的士兵——亲历爆炸，见证了伊拉克暴乱的血腥与恐怖。
On Thursday, Sergeant Bales said that after returning from his tours in Iraq, he slid deeper into a pit of anger, weakness and fear. He said he had attended counseling but quit after about a month and a half after failing to see any improvements. He said he had not been eager to return to combat for a fourth deployment.
贝尔斯在周四表示，在结束服役从伊拉克回国后，他深深地陷入了愤怒、脆弱及恐惧的情绪之中。贝尔斯表示，自己曾接受过咨询，但过了一个半月，他没有看到任何好转，因此选择退出。贝尔斯说，他不想参与第四次派驻任务，不想重返战场。
In a long narrative of the massacre and the events leading to it, prosecutors painted Sergeant Bales as a frustrated soldier prone to drinking and violent outbursts. They said that he had been in deep financial trouble, that he wanted to divorce his wife, and that he was upset about being passed over for a promotion to sergeant first class.
在对屠杀行为及导致屠杀行为的种种事件的长篇叙述中，检察官将贝尔斯描绘成一个爱喝酒，并有暴力倾向的失望不满的士兵。他们表示，贝尔斯深陷经济困境，他想与妻子离婚，而且没能被提升为三级军士长，也让他受到了打击。
In Afghanistan, he began taking steroids and at times lost his temper, once screaming at another soldier and once punching and kneeing an Afghan driver who accidentally struck Sergeant Bales with a box of supplies.
在阿富汗，他开始服用类固醇，有时会大发脾气，还曾对另一名士兵大喊大叫，还重击并用膝盖撞击一名阿富汗司机，这名司机搬着一个装有供应品的箱子，不小心打到了贝尔斯。
On Thursday, Sergeant Bales said he had seen threats everywhere, spotting phantom bombs and Taliban where other soldiers saw nothing. The day before the shooting, Sergeant Bales spent eight hours hacking away at a fallen tree that Taliban fighters had used as a landmark for placing roadside bombs.
周四，贝尔斯表示，他觉得到处都有威胁，并看到隐藏的炸弹和塔利班(Taliban)，而其他士兵什么也没看到。在枪击发生的前一天，贝尔斯花了八个小时慢慢地砍开一棵倒地的树，塔利班武装分子曾将这棵树当做地标，以说明这里的路边放着炸弹。
“I couldn’t let it go,” he said.
他说，“我不能放任不管。”
Throughout his statement, he acknowledged that his apologies would not bring back anyone’s wife, children or parents.
他在陈述当中承认，道歉不能使任何人的妻子、孩子或父母起死回生。
“Sorry just isn’t good enough,” he said.
他说，“光道歉是不够的。”