“It sounded like a stampede of cattle,” Donna Melanson said — 30 to 40 people fleeing, terrified, through Los Angeles International Airport on Sunday night. “Everyone is yelling, ‘Shooter, shooter, shooter,’ and they start diving under the seats to hide.”
“听上去像狂奔的牛群一样，”唐娜·梅兰森(Donna Melanson)说。周日晚上在洛杉矶国际机场，三四十人四处逃散，惊恐万分。“所有人都在喊，‘枪手、枪手、枪手，’然后开始钻到座位底下藏起来。”
Ms. Melanson, 53, a yoga instructor who was waiting to fly home to Miami, grabbed her bag and joined the stampede because, she said, “I couldn’t think of why people would be running unless there was a true emergency.”
现年53岁的梅兰森是瑜伽教练，正等着搭乘飞机回迈阿密的家。她一把抓起行李，加入狂奔的人群，因为她说，“除非真的出现了紧急情况，否则我想不到大家为什么会跑。”
There was not. A loud noise mistaken for gunfire led to rumors that spread at blazing speed in person and on social media, setting off a panic that shut down one of the nation’s busiest airports, as passengers fled terminals and burst through security cordons, and as the police struggled to figure out what was happening and to restore order.
实际并未发生紧急情况。一声巨响被误以为是枪声，进而引发传言。传言以闪电般的速度在人们口中和社交媒体上传播，造成恐慌，最终导致这座属于全美最繁忙之列的机场关闭。乘客逃离航站楼，冲破安全警戒线，警察则努力想要弄清楚发生了什么事，并恢复秩序。
Far from being an isolated episode, it was essentially what had happened on Aug. 13 at a mall in Raleigh, N.C.; on Aug. 14 at Kennedy International Airport in New York; on Aug. 20 at a mall in Michigan; and on Aug. 25 at a mall in Orlando, Fla.
这远不是一起孤立事件。基本上，这一幕8月13日在北卡罗来纳州罗利的一家商场、8月14日在纽约肯尼迪国际机场、8月20日在密西根州的一家商场、8月25日在佛罗里达州奥兰多的一家商场均上演过。
In the wake of terrorist attacks at airports in Brussels and Istanbul — and against other targets in Paris; San Bernardino, Calif.; Orlando; Nice, France; and elsewhere — Americans are primed, when they hear a loud bang or screams, or see a crowd break into a run, to think in terms of mass killings and active shooters. Yet crime statistics show that over all, violence in the United States is as low as it has ever been, and experts say the fear far exceeds the risk.
在布鲁塞尔和伊斯坦布尔的机场，以及巴黎、加利福尼亚州圣贝纳迪诺、奥兰多、法国尼斯等地的其他一些目标遭遇恐怖袭击后，美国民众一听到巨大的响声或尖叫声，或是看到人群突然开始奔跑，就会想到大规模杀戮事件和正在开枪的凶手。但犯罪统计数据显示，总的来说，美国的暴力事件发生几率处于历史最低水平，并且专家表示，民众的恐惧远远超出了真实的风险。
“I would say that we are in the grip of a moral panic,” said John Horgan, a professor of global studies and psychology at Georgia State University who specializes in the study of terrorism. “The constant threat perception of being vulnerable to mass violence has seeped into our collective consciousness.”
“我想说，我们陷入了一种道德恐慌，”乔治亚州立大学(Georgia State University)专门研究恐怖主义的全球研究与心理学教授约翰·霍根(John Horgan)说。“始终认为自己会受到大规模暴力事件的伤害这种想法，逐渐渗进了我们的集体意识。”
Sam Macon, 36, a documentary filmmaker who was at the Los Angeles airport on Sunday, said: “People who were running had absolutely no idea why they were doing so. I don’t think it takes a social scientist to understand that the general tenor of American society right now is that we’re all wound up pretty tight.”
周日当天，36岁的纪录片工作者萨姆·梅肯(Sam Macon)也在洛杉矶机场。他说：“跑的人肯定不知道自己为什么跑。我认为不需要社会科学家就知道，美国社会现在的主基调就是我们都很紧张。”
The recent false-alarm panics injured dozens of people, some of them seriously.
最近，假警报引发的恐慌导致数十人受伤，部分人伤势严重。
Kokila Patel, 66, and her husband, Manu, 74, had just finished lunch at a Panera in the Crabtree Valley Mall in Raleigh on Aug. 13 when she heard a noise and turned to see panicked shoppers surging toward them. People had taken still-unexplained sounds for gunshots, screamed, dived into stores and made a chaotic rush for the exits, paying little heed to what was in their way — including the Patels.
在8月13日，66岁的戈吉拉·帕特尔(Kokila Patel)刚和74岁的丈夫马努(Manu)在罗利的克雷布特里山谷购物中心(Crabtree Valley Mall)吃完午饭就听到响声。她转过身，看到惊慌失措的购物者向他们涌来。大家把迄今仍原因不明的响声当成了枪声，尖叫着冲进店铺里，一片混乱地涌向出口，几乎不管挡在自己面前的是什么，包括帕特尔夫妇。
The crowd knocked the couple down and trampled Ms. Patel, breaking her right femur and leaving her to wait in searing pain for two hours until police officers in tactical gear arrived and helped carry her out of the mall on a plastic display table. Surgeons braced her shattered leg with a steel rod, plate and screws, but the pain is still intense. Ms. Patel, who usually travels to India for three months each year with her husband, remains homebound.
人群将这对夫妇撞倒，并从帕特尔身上踩过，导致她右股骨碎裂。她在剧痛中等了两个小时，携带着战术装备的警察才到达现场，帮忙把她放在一张塑料展示桌上抬出商场。外科医生用钢棍、金属板和螺丝把她粉碎性骨折的那条腿固定了起来，但痛感依然剧烈。通常每年都要和丈夫去印度待三个月的帕特尔至今仍被迫待在家里。
“People always think, ‘A gunman, a gunman,’” said Ms. Patel, who with her husband was earlier interviewed by The News and Observer. “People’s mentality are changing. People are always being afraid.”
“大家总以为，‘枪手，枪手，’”帕特尔早前和丈夫一起接受《新闻与观察报》(The News and Observer)的采访时说。“人们的心态变了，总是很害怕。”
Mr. Patel said he could see fear on the faces of the people who rushed over him and his wife.
帕特尔的丈夫说，他能在朝自己和妻子冲过来的人脸上看到恐惧。
“They thought that somebody’s there to kill them,” he said. “Psychologically, we have been damaged.”
“他们以为那里有人要杀他们，”他说。“从心理上来说，我们有创伤。”
Social media feeds that kind of frenzy, said Roxane Cohen Silver, a professor of psychology and social behavior at the University of California, Irvine.
加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)的心理学与社会行为教授罗克珊·科恩·西尔弗(Roxane Cohen Silver)表示，社交媒体加剧了这种疯狂。
“There’s rapid dissemination of information on social media that’s not being filtered by anybody,” she said. “This provides the unfortunate opportunity for rumors to be transmitted very quickly, without any ability to evaluate the veracity.”
“未经任何人过滤的信息在社交媒体上迅速传播，”她说。“遗憾的是，这让流言有机会火速扩散，人们无法评估其真实性。”
Before there were television news reports about what was happening at the Los Angeles airport, she said, her son in Chicago had called to tell her, “I’m watching Twitter videos of people running at LAX.”
她说，在介绍洛杉矶机场所发生的事情的电视新闻报道出来之前，在芝加哥的儿子打电话和她说，“我正在Twitter上看洛杉矶机场人群奔跑的视频。”
At the Florida Mall in Orlando, popping balloons were apparently mistaken for gunshots. At the Twelve Oaks Mall in Novi, Mich., it was a glass door toppling to the floor, knocked over by thieves who had smashed a glass display class in a jewelry store to grab two luxury watches.
在奥兰多佛罗里达购物中心(Florida Mall)，人们似乎把气球爆裂的声音当成了枪声。在密歇根州诺维的十二棵橡树购物中心(Twelve Oaks Mall)，则是一扇玻璃门被窃贼撞倒在地上的声音。在那之前，窃贼为了抢走两块名贵腕表而打破了一家珠宝店的玻璃展台。
As the robbers ran, so did shoppers, and people posted videos of the chaotic scene on social media and said — falsely — that shots had been fired. That message spread fast, and calls to the Novi police overwhelmed the 911 system, shunting overflow callers to the state police.
随着抢劫者逃跑，购物者也跟着跑了起来。有人把一片混乱的现场视频发布在了社交媒体上，并错误地宣称有人开火。这个消息迅速扩散，打给诺维警方的电话淹没了911报警系统，无法打入电话的人被迫致电州警方。
“It’s a wildfire you try to control,” said Detective Sgt. Scott Baetens of the Novi Police Department. “We try to put out timely and accurate information. But you can’t put it out fast enough to beat Twitter and Facebook.”
“你试图控制的是一场野火，”诺维警察局的探员斯科特·贝滕斯警佐(Scott Baetens)说。“我们努力发布及时、准确的信息。但你的速度不足以超过Twitter和Facebook。”
Once people start to flee, it is fairly normal for others to join in, experts say — even people who did not hear any suspicious sounds or rumors of terrorism. But people who study crowd psychology and the fear of terrorism say the steady stream of news reports of bloodshed has heightened anxieties out of proportion to the threat, making panic more likely to take hold.
专家称，一旦有人开始逃散，其他人加入很正常，即便是没听到任何可疑的声响或恐怖活动传言的人。但研究从众心理和对恐怖主义的恐惧的人士表示，源源不断的有关流血事件的新闻报道加剧了民众对威胁的过度焦虑，导致爆发恐慌的可能性增加。
“This overexposure can cause increased fear, anxiety and helplessness, particularly in already psychologically vulnerable populations,” said Daniel Antonius, an assistant professor of psychiatry at the University at Buffalo. He described “a national anxiety” about mass attacks that did not reflect the real level of danger.
“这种过度报道可能会导致恐惧、焦虑和无助情绪加剧，特别是在心理上已经颇为脆弱的群体中，”纽约州立大学布法罗分校(University at Buffalo)的精神病学助理教授丹尼尔·安东尼厄斯(Daniel Antonius)说。他认为，对大规模袭击的“全民焦虑”未反映出真正的危险程度。
Dr. Horgan stressed that in addition to physical violence, “terrorism is fundamentally a form of psychological warfare, and it’s one of the greatest ironies that we help give it its strength in our reactions to it.”
霍根强调，除身体上遭受的暴力外，“恐怖主义本质上是一种心理战，我们对它做出的反应助长了它的力量，而这堪称最大的讽刺之一。”