RIGA, Latvia — In a significant move to deter possible Russian aggression in Europe, the Pentagon is poised to store battle tanks, infantry fighting vehicles and other heavy weapons for as many as 5,000 American troops in several Baltic and Eastern European countries, American and allied officials say.
拉脱维亚里加——美国和盟国官员透露，五角大楼(Pentagon)准备在巴尔干半岛和东欧的若干国家，停放作战坦克、步兵战车及其他重型武器装备，这些装备可供5000名美国士兵使用。面对俄罗斯进犯欧洲的可能性，这是一个重要的威慑举动。
The proposal, if approved, would represent the first time since the end of the Cold War that the United States has stationed heavy military equipment in the newer NATO member nations in Eastern Europe that had once been part of the Soviet sphere of influence. Russia’s annexation of Crimea and the war in eastern Ukraine have caused alarm and prompted new military planning in NATO capitals.
这一提议如果得到批准，将是冷战结束之后，美国第一次向东欧的北约(NATO)新成员国部署重型军事装备，那些国家曾经属于苏联的势力范围。俄罗斯吞并克里米亚的举动以及乌克兰东部的战事，令北约成员国产生了警觉，新的军事计划正是因此制定的。
It would be the most prominent of a series of moves the United States and NATO have taken to bolster forces in the region and send a clear message of resolve to allies and to Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, that the United States would defend the alliance’s members closest to the Russian frontier.
美国和北约在该地区增强军力的一系列举动当中，这将是最引人瞩目的一个，它也能向盟友和俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)明确地展示决心，表明美国会保护距离俄罗斯边境最近的那些北约成员国。
After the expansion of NATO to include the Baltic nations in 2004, the United States and its allies avoided the permanent stationing of equipment or troops in the east as they sought varying forms of partnership with Russia.
在2004年北约东扩，吸纳波罗的海国家之后，美国及其盟友寻求与俄罗斯展开不同形式的合作，因而并未在东欧永久性驻军或存放装备。
“This is a very meaningful shift in policy,” said James G. Stavridis, a retired admiral and the former supreme allied commander of NATO, who is now dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. “It provides a reasonable level of reassurance to jittery allies, although nothing is as good as troops stationed full-time on the ground, of course.”
“这是很有意义的战略转变，”詹姆斯·G·斯塔夫里迪斯(James G. Stavridis)，“它向惴惴不安的盟国提供了程度合理的安抚，当然，最好的还是永久性驻军。”斯塔夫里迪斯是退休海军上将，曾任北约盟军最高司令，现任塔夫茨大学(Tufts University)弗莱彻法律与外交学院院长。
The amount of equipment included in the planning is small compared with what Russia could bring to bear against the NATO nations on or near its borders, but it would serve as a credible sign of American commitment, acting as a deterrent the way that the Berlin Brigade did after the Berlin Wall crisis in 1961.
计划中包括的武器装备的数量，比俄罗斯可以部署到边境线或边境线附近从而对抗北约国家的武器总量要小。但它是美国承诺的一个可信迹象，可以像1961年柏林墙危机之后的“柏林旅”(Berlin Brigade)一样，起到威慑作用。
“It’s like taking NATO back to the future,” said Julianne Smith, a former defense and White House official who is now a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a vice president at the consulting firm Beacon Global Strategies.
前国防部和白宫官员茱莉安·史密斯(Julianne Smith)表示，“这就像把北约带回了未来。”史密斯现任新美国安全中心(Center for a New American Security)高级研究员、灯塔全球战略(Beacon Global Strategies)咨询公司副总裁。
The “prepositioned” stocks — to be stored on allied bases and enough to equip a brigade of 3,000 to 5,000 soldiers — also would be similar to what the United States maintained in Kuwait for more than a decade after Iraq invaded it in 1990 and was expelled by American and allied forces early the next year.
这些“预部署”的装备将会存放在盟国的军事基地，足以为兵力有3000至5000人的一个旅提供武装。这些装备与伊拉克在1990年入侵科威特并于次年初被美军及盟军击退之后，美国在科威特持续部署了十多年的那些装备相似。
The Pentagon’s proposal still requires approval by Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter and the White House. And political hurdles remain, as the significance of the potential step has stirred concern among some NATO allies about Russia’s reaction to a buildup of equipment.
五角大楼的提议仍然需要国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)和白宫的批准。此外，前方还有政治障碍，由于提议的举动具有重大意义，因此一些北约盟国开始担忧，俄罗斯对武器装备的增加会如何反应。
“The U.S. military continues to review the best location to store these materials in consultation with our allies,” said Col. Steven H. Warren, a Pentagon spokesman. “At this time, we have made no decision about if or when to move to this equipment.”
“美军会持续与盟友磋商，审定存放这些装备的最佳地点，”五角大楼发言人史蒂文·H·沃伦上校(Col. Steven H. Warren)表示。“目前，我们还没有就是否运送这些装备，以及何时运送作出决定。”
Senior officials briefed on the proposals, who described the internal military planning on the condition of anonymity, said that they expected approval to come before the NATO defense ministers’ meeting in Brussels this month.
了解上述提议的高级官员透露，他们预料本月北约成员国的国防部长在布鲁塞尔召开会议之前，提议能够得到批准。由于在讨论内部军事计划，这些高级官员要求匿名。
The current proposal falls short of permanently assigning United States troops to the Baltics — something that senior officials of those countries recently requested in a letter to NATO. Even so, officials in those countries say they welcome the proposal to ship at least the equipment forward.
当前的提议并未要求美国在波罗的海永久性驻军——那些国家的高级官员最近在一封提交给北约的信中，提出了驻军的要求。尽管如此，这些国家的官员们表示，他们欢迎上述提议至少先把装备运来。
“We need the prepositioned equipment because if something happens, we’ll need additional armaments, equipment and ammunition,” Raimonds Vejonis, Latvia’s minister of defense, said in an interview at his office here last week.
“我们需要这些预部署装备，因为如果有情况发生，我们将需要更多的武器、装备和弹药，”拉脱维亚国防部长莱蒙德斯·韦约尼斯(Raimonds Vejonis)上周在他本地的办公室接受采访时说。
“If something happens, we can’t wait days or weeks for more equipment,” said Mr. Vejonis, who will become Latvia’s president in July. “We need to react immediately.”
“如果有情况发生，我们不能为更多的装备等几天或几周，”韦约尼斯说。“我们需要立即作出反应。”韦约尼斯将于7月份担任拉脱维亚总统。
Mark Galeotti, a professor at New York University who has written extensively on Russia’s military and security services, noted, “Tanks on the ground, even if they haven’t people in them, make for a significant marker.”
纽约大学教授马克·加莱奥蒂(Mark Galeotti)写过大量有关俄罗斯军事和安全部门的文章，他指出，“在地面部署坦克，即使这些坦克里没有人，也构成一个重要的标志。”
As the proposal stands now, a company’s worth of equipment — enough for about 150 soldiers — would be stored in each of the three Baltic nations: Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Enough for a company or possibly a battalion — about 750 soldiers — would be located in Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and possibly Hungary, they said.
按照目前的方案，将在三个波罗的海国家——立陶宛、拉脱维亚和爱沙尼亚——中的每一个存放一个连的装备，够供约150名士兵使用。将在波兰、罗马尼亚、保加利亚和匈牙利存放足够一个连、或者可能是一个营——约750名士兵——的装备，他们说。
American military specialists have conducted site surveys in the countries under consideration, and the Pentagon is working on estimates about the costs to upgrade railways, build new warehouses and equipment-cleaning facilities, and to replace other Soviet-era facilities to accommodate the heavy American weaponry. The weapons warehouses would be guarded by local or security contractors, and not by American military personnel, officials said.
美国军事专家们已对这些考虑中的国家进行了选址勘查，五角大楼正在对有关费用进行估算，包括铁路的升级、新库房和装备清洗设施的建设，以及改造其他苏联时代的设施，以容纳美国的重型武器。官员说，这些武器库将由本地军事人员、或安全承包商看守，而不是由美国军事人员看守。
Positioning the equipment forward saves the United States Army time, money and resources, and avoids having to ship the equipment back and forth to the United States each time an Army unit travels to Europe to train. A full brigade’s worth of equipment — formally called the European Activity Set — would include about 1,200 vehicles, including some 250 M1-A2 tanks, Bradley fighting vehicles, and armored howitzers, according to a senior military official.
把军事装备向前方布置能节省美国陆军的时间、经费和资源，还能避免陆军部队每次前往欧洲训练时，把装备从美国运出、再运回的必要。据一位高级军事官员的说法，为一个旅配的装备，过去被称为欧洲行动集合，会包括大约1200辆车辆，其中有约250辆M1-A2型坦克、布雷德利战车，以及装甲榴弹炮。
The Army previously said after the invasion of Crimea last year that it would expand the amount of equipment it stored at the Grafenwöhr training range in southeastern Germany and at other sites to a brigade from a battalion. An interim step would be prepositioning the additional weapons and vehicles in Germany ahead of decisions to move them farther east.
去年发生了入侵克里米亚事件之后，美国陆军曾表示，将扩大其存放在德国东南部的格拉芬沃尔训练基地内、以及其它地点的装备数量，从一个营的量扩充到一个旅。一个临时步骤将是，在作出把装备进一步向东移动决定之前，向德国预部署更多的武器和车辆。
Army units — currently a battalion from the Third Infantry Division — now fly into the range on regular rotations, using the same equipment left in place. They train with the equipment there or take it to exercises elsewhere in Europe.
目前的做法是，来自美国陆军第3步兵师的部队定期轮换飞到格拉芬沃尔基地，用存放在那里的装备进行训练。他们或者在基地训练使用装备，或把装备带到欧洲其他地方进行训练。
That, along with stepped-up air patrolling and training exercises on NATO’s eastern flank, was among the initial measures approved by NATO’s leaders at their summit meeting in Wales last year. The Pentagon’s proposal reflects a realization that the tensions with Russia are unlikely to diminish soon.
这种做法，加上在北约东翼加紧空中巡逻和训练，属去年北约领导人在威尔士首脑会议上批准了的初步措施范围。五角大楼提出的计划反映了这样一个实现，那就是与俄罗斯的紧张关系不太可能会很快放松。
“We have to transition from what was a series of temporary decisions made last year,” said Heather A. Conley, director of the Europe Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
华盛顿的战略与国际研究中心欧洲项目部主任希瑟·A·康利(Heather A. Conley)说，“我们必须从去年作出的一系列临时决定过渡（到下一个阶段）。”
The idea of moving prepositioned weapons and materials to the Baltics and Eastern Europe has been discussed before, but never carried out because it would be viewed by the Kremlin as a violation of the spirit of the 1997 agreement between NATO and Russia that laid the foundation for cooperation.
把预部署的武器和物资向波罗的海和东欧移动的想法过去曾讨论过，但从未实施，因为这种做法会被克里姆林宫视为有违北约与俄罗斯1997年签署的协议精神，该协议是双方合作的基础。
In that agreement, NATO pledged that, “in the current and foreseeable security environment,” it would not seek “additional permanent stationing of substantial ground combat forces” in the nations closer to Russia.
北约曾在协议中承诺，“在当前的、以及可预见的安全环境下，”北约不会寻求在临近俄罗斯的国家“额外地永久性部署大量地面作战部队。”
The agreement also says that “NATO and Russia do not consider each other as adversaries.” Many in the alliance argue that Russia’s increasingly aggressive actions around NATO’s borders have made that pact effectively moot.
协议还表示：“北约与俄罗斯不把彼此作为对手。”北约联盟中有不少人认为，俄罗斯在北约边界附近日益增长的侵略性行动已基本上让协议失效。
The Pentagon’s proposal has gained new support because of fears among the eastern NATO allies that they could face a Russian threat.
五角大楼提出的方案得到了新的支持，是因为北约东部盟国之中的恐惧感，这些国家担心他们可能面临来自俄罗斯的威胁。
“This is essentially about politics,” Professor Galeotti said. “This is about telling Russia that you’re getting closer to a real red line.”
“这实际上事关政治，”加莱奥蒂说。“事关告知俄罗斯，你正在越来越接近一条真正的红线。”
In an interview before a visit to Italy this week, Mr. Putin dismissed fears of any Russian attack on NATO.
在本周前往意大利访问之前的一次采访中，普京打消了任何有关俄罗斯对北约发动袭击的担忧。