The American political establishment was reeling from shock on Wednesday as leaders in both parties began coming to grips with four years of President Donald Trump in the White House, a once-unimaginable scenario that has now plunged the United States and its allies and adversaries into a period of unprecedented uncertainty about the policies and impact of Trump.
美国政治建制派在本周三遭受了冲击，因为唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)将作为总统在白宫待上四年，这种曾经无法想象的前景让两党领导人措手不及。对于特朗普的政策和影响，美国及其盟国和对手现在都陷入了一种前所未有的不确定性中。
President Barack Obama, a longtime foe of Trump, and Hillary Clinton, the president-elect’s vanquished opponent, held separate news conferences to urge people to put aside whatever bruised feelings and disappointment they have and come together for the sake of the republic, and for the good of Trump’s presidency.
一直与特朗普作对的奥巴马和败给了这位候任总统的希拉里·克林顿各自举行了新闻发布会，敦促人们把伤痛和失望抛在一边，为了共和国，为了特朗普担任总统期间的大局，团结到一起。
Obama, addressing the nation from the Rose Garden on Wednesday, said he had called Trump with congratulations and to invite him to meet at the White House on Thursday to discuss a smooth transition to the Trump administration.
奥巴马周三在玫瑰园发表全国讲话，表示他已致电特朗普表达了祝贺，并邀请他周四赴白宫见面，讨论如何顺利过渡到特朗普政府。
“We are all now rooting for his success in uniting and leading the country,” Obama said. “The peaceful transfer of power is one of the hallmarks of our democracy. And over the next few months we are going to show that to the world.”
“我们现在都期待他能成功地团结和领导这个国家，”奥巴马说：“和平移交权力是我们民主制度的标志之一。在接下来的几个月里，我们将向世界展示这一点。”
Clinton, in her first remarks to supporters after the election, said that she hoped that Trump “will be a successful president for all Americans,” and said she was “sorry that we did not win this election for the values we share and the vision we hold for our country.”
克林顿在选举后对支持者的首次发言中说，她希望特朗普“成为一个成功的总统，对所有美国人都是如此，”她说她“很遗憾没有为我们共同的价值观和我们对这个国家的愿景赢得这场选举。”
“This is painful, and it will be for a long time,” Clinton said, standing beside her husband, former President Bill Clinton, in a tableau that underscored the end of a nearly 25-year era when the Clintons dominated American politics.
“这很痛苦，而痛苦会持续很长时间，”克林顿站在自己的丈夫、前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)身边说，这样的场面昭示着近25年来克林顿家族主导美国政治时代的结束。
Noting that the country was “more deeply divided than we thought,” Hillary Clinton added: “We must accept this result and look to the future. Donald Trump is going to be our president — we owe him an open mind and a chance to lead.”
“这个国家比我们想象的更加分裂，”希拉里·克林顿说：“我们必须接受这一结果并展望未来。唐纳德·特朗普将成为我们的总统——我们理应给他一个开放的心态，一个领导国家的机会。”
While her speech largely dealt with politics, Clinton choked back tears at times, and turned personal at one point.
虽然演讲主要在谈政治，但克林顿也会时不时哽咽，一度透露了个人情绪。
“To all the little girls who are watching this,” she said, “never doubt that you are valuable and powerful and deserving of every chance and opportunity in the world to pursue and achieve your own dreams.”
“我要对观众中每个小女孩说的是，”她说，“永远不要怀疑你很有价值，很强大，理应得到世界上的每一个机会来追求和实现你自己的梦想。”
For many millions of voters, a sense of excitement and even euphoria coursed from coast to coast as they celebrated the election of a true political outsider who had promised to reverse policies of the Obama administration and be a champion for “forgotten Americans.” But millions of others felt a sense of dread and even fear as they tried to fathom how Trump could win the presidency when so many polls suggested otherwise, and to prepare themselves for the consequences of a new leader who has no experience in government or world affairs.
对于数以百万计的选民来说，从东海岸到西海岸充满了一种兴奋甚至欣快，一个承诺要扭转奥巴马政府政策的真正的政治门外汉，一个“被遗忘的美国人”的捍卫者，当选为总统，这让他们拍手相庆。但其他许许多多的民众则感到害怕甚至恐惧，因为他们想不通特朗普如何能够赢得选举，毕竟有这么多的民调都显示他不会当选，面对这样一个没有政府或全球事务经验的新领导人，他们需要准备好迎接此事的后果。
Trump campaign advisers said Wednesday that the president-elect was turning to assembling a Cabinet and White House team and selecting a conservative nominee for the Supreme Court vacancy. The advisers said Trump was inclined to roll out a few Cabinet nominations at a time, rather than kicking them off with one high-profile pick for a critical department like Treasury or State.
特朗普的竞选顾问本周三说，他将开始组建内阁和白宫团队，并为最高法院的空缺选择一位保守派提名人。顾问们说，特朗普倾向于一次宣布几个内阁提名，而不是针对财政部或国务院这样的重要部门每次隆重推出一位提名人。
Among the candidates for Cabinet secretaries and advisers are members of Trump’s inner circle, aides said, including Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, a crucial adviser on policy issues; Steven Mnuchin, a businessman who was Trump’s national finance chairman; Rudy Giuliani, the former mayor of New York; Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey; and Newt Gingrich, a former speaker of the House.
助手们说，内阁部长和顾问的候选人中有一些是特朗普小圈子里的成员，其中包括他在政策问题上的重要顾问、阿拉巴马州的杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)，担任特朗普财务主席的商人史蒂文·努钦(Steven Mnuchin)，前纽约市长鲁迪·朱利亚尼(Rudy Giuliani)，新泽西州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)，以及前众议院议长纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)。
Trump also spent Wednesday morning receiving phone calls from world leaders, said the campaign advisers who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the transition planning. The advisers declined to identify the leaders, though one said it would be unusual if the president-elect had not heard from allies like Britain and Germany.
选择不具名谈论交接计划的多名竞选顾问表示，特朗普周三上午在忙着接听世界各国领导人打来的电话。顾问们拒绝确认这些领导人的身份，不过其中一人表示，如果一位当选总统没有接到英国和德国等盟友的问候，那会非常反常。
Asked if President Vladimir Putin of Russia had spoken with Trump, who surprised many Americans by saying that Putin had been a stronger leader than President Barack Obama, the aide said the two men had not been in touch.
在被问到俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)是否有和特朗普通话时，这名助手表示两人还没有联系。特朗普曾经表示，相比于贝拉克·奥巴马总统，普京是一位更强有力的领导，令许多美国人大吃一惊。
Anxiety was particularly deep among Hispanics, African-Americans, Muslims, immigrants, women and others who had felt disparaged or demonized by Trump, who at times used harsh and racially charged language in ways that upended mainstream politics. The very idea that Trump had been endorsed by a Ku Klux Klan newspaper — even if he rejected it — symbolized the sense of shock that he would now lead a vibrantly diverse democracy.
在西语裔、非裔、穆斯林、移民、女性和其他感觉被特朗普贬低或妖魔化的美国人群体中，焦虑的情绪尤其强烈。特朗普有时会使用刺耳和含有种族歧视意味的语言，与主流政治的方式相悖。仅从特朗普曾得到一家三K党报纸背书这一点——尽管他自己表示反对——就不难想象，这样一个人将领导一个极为多样的民主国家，是多么令人震惊的一件事。
Asked how they would feel about a Trump presidency, more than a third of Americans said they would be frightened, exit polls found. Among those who voted for Hillary Clinton, the feeling was almost unanimous and reflected a deep divide: 92 percent said Trump scared them.
出口民调结果显示，在被问到对特朗普当选总统有何感受时，超过三分之一的美国人表示，他们会感到害怕。投给希拉里·克林顿的选民几乎全都有这样的感受：92%的人表示特朗普让他们感到害怕。这反映了一种深刻的分歧。
Politicians also joined business leaders — as well as the many Americans with retirement and savings accounts — in keeping a nervous eye on the world financial markets in fear of the sort of backlash that wounded Britain after its vote in June to leave the European Union. While some business leaders worried about the nation’s sliding into recession, others were more hopeful that Trump’s proposals of tax cuts, infrastructure spending and relaxing of regulations would be welcomed by the financial markets, which stabilized after sharp declines overnight.
政治人士也和商业领袖一起——还有许多持有退休金账户和储蓄账户的人——在紧张地关注着世界金融市场，担心出现英国今年6月公投退出欧盟后出现的强烈市场反应。尽管一些商业领袖担心美国会滑向经济衰退，但也有人更期待特朗普的减税提议，在基础设施上的投入，以及宽松的管制会在金融市场收到良好反馈。这个市场在一夜剧跌之后已经趋于稳定。
Political activity and reactions in both parties were in a surreal state of suspended animation as Republicans and Democrats began anticipating Trump’s moves. Paul Ryan, the speaker of the House, said at a news conference Wednesday morning that Trump had a “mandate” for his vision of government, including trying to repeal the Affordable Care Act, after his stunning upset victory over Clinton.
在共和党人和民主党人开始预测特朗普会有什么举动的同时，两党的政治活动和反应都处在一种离奇的“暂停生命”状态。众议院议长保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)在周三上午举行的一场新闻发布会上表示，在令人震惊地战胜了克林顿后，特朗普对政府的构想得到了“授权”，这其中包括努力废除《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)。
Ryan described a United States under Trump as a different place than it has been, saying that the president-elect would be a champion of the many Americans who do not like the direction of the country and “don’t feel heard and don’t feel represented by the people in office.”
瑞安将特朗普领导下的美国描述成一个跟过去完全不一样的地方，表示这位当选总统会成为许多美国人的捍卫者，这些人不喜欢美国现在的方向，“觉得自己没有被倾听，觉得现任官员没有代表他们的利益。”