WASHINGTON — Defying China’s attempt to extend its jurisdiction over more of the East China Sea, two long-range American bombers flew through disputed airspace over the sea just days after the Chinese asserted they have the right to police it.
华盛顿——中国宣称有权管辖更多的东海海域没几天，美国两架远程轰炸机便飞越了该海域上方的争议空域，挑战中国扩展管辖权的尝试。
Pentagon officials said Tuesday that the B-52s were on a routine training mission that had been planned long in advance of the Chinese announcement on Saturday that it was establishing an “air defense identification zone” over contested islands and seas that have been the source of increasing tension with Japan. But the message was clear.
相关海域和岛屿是导致中日关系日益紧张的根源。五角大楼官员周二表示，在中国上周六宣布在争议海域和岛屿上空设立“防空识别区”之前很久，那两架B-52轰炸机执行的日常训练任务就已列入计划。然而，美国此举传达的讯息很明确。
A senior Pentagon official said Tuesday that the training mission “was a demonstration of long-established international rights to freedom of navigation and transit through international airspace.” The official said the unilateral Chinese declaration of expanded control “was provocative, and a barrier to dialogue that only increases the risk of miscalculation in the region.”
五角大楼的一名高级官员周二表示，此次训练任务“展示了确立已久的、在国际空域自由通行的国际权利”。这名官员称，中国单方面宣布扩展管辖权的行为“是一种挑衅，是开展对话的障碍，只会增加该地区出现错误估计的风险”。
There was no immediate Chinese military response to the flights, which were conducted without prior notification as demanded by the new declaration from Beijing, which asserted the right to identify, monitor and possibly take military action against any aircraft that enter the area.
此次飞行没有按北京方面新声明的要求进行事先通知，但中国军方并未立即做出回应。北京的新声明称，中国有权对进入该区域的航空器进行识别和监控，甚或对其采取军事行动。
The unexpected announcement by China was among its boldest moves yet in a struggle for power in Asia with the United States, and by extension its regional allies including Japan. The United States, long the dominant power in the region, has been scrambling to shore up its influence in the region, promising in what it called a “pivot” to Asia in 2011 to refocus its energies there after the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan diverted its time and resources.
中国的这一声明出人意料，是它在与美国争夺亚洲影响力的过程中最大胆的举动之一。更广泛地说，中国在这场争夺中的对手还有美国在该地区的盟友，其中包括日本。作为该地区长期以来的主导力量，美国一直在极力增加自己在该地区的影响力。伊拉克战争和阿富汗战争曾使美国转移了自己的时间和资源，此后，美国于2011年在所谓的“转向”亚洲战略中承诺，将把精力重新集中在该地区。
Having Japan in the mix only adds volatility. The country has its own tangled history with China, which has sped past Japan as an economic power and which retains bitter memories of imperial Japan’s military invasion last century. Under its conservative leader, Shinzo Abe, Japan has refused to back down in the dispute with China over the islands, which Japan has long controlled.
日本的卷入只是增加了形势的变数。中日之间的历史关系原本就十分复杂。在经济上，中国已快速超越日本，但中国依然保留着对上世纪日本帝国军事入侵的痛苦回忆。在保守派领导人安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的领导下，日本拒绝在相关岛屿引发的争端中向中国让步。长期以来，那些岛屿一直处在日本的控制之下。
For the White House, the flare-up could prove a major distraction for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., as he embarks on a weeklong tour of China, Japan, and South Korea. Administration officials are eager to focus on issues like a trans-Pacific trade deal and North Korea.
对白宫而言，事实可能会证明，在副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)着手准备对中、日、韩进行长达一周的访问之际，此次冲突升级会极大地分散他的精力。奥巴马政府官员急于应付的是诸如跨太平洋贸易协定和朝鲜问题之类的问题。
The islands, called the Senkaku in Japan and the Diaoyu in China, are currently administered by the Japanese, who consider the airspace above the islands to be theirs. American officials have been increasingly worried about the standoff they say should be resolved diplomatically. By treaty the United States is obligated to defend Japan if attacked.
争议岛屿目前处于日本管辖之下，在日本被称作尖阁诸岛，在中国被称作钓鱼岛。日方认为，该岛上空属于其领空范围。美国官员对这种僵局日益感到担忧，他们表示，应该通过外交途径化解僵局。按照条约，如果日本受到攻击，美国有义务保卫日本。
But both China and America’s Asian allies know that Washington’s focus has been elsewhere, a reality that become ever more evident when President Obama had to cancel a trip to an Asian summit meeting during his battle with Congress over the budget and his health care plan.
不过，中国和美国的亚洲盟友都知道，美方的焦点一直在别处。当奥巴马总统和国会因预算及医改计划发生争斗，不得不取消亚洲峰会之行时，这个现实变得前所未有地明显。
Pressed on whether the Chinese move represents an overt attempt to fill an American security void in the region, Pentagon officials respond by pointing to the American response to the catastrophic typhoon that struck the Philippines this month. The United States quickly moved in hundreds of Marines, dozens of transport aircraft and an entire aircraft carrier strike group. China’s offer of military assistance was feeble by comparison.
中国的行动是否代表它正在公开尝试填补美国在该地区留下的安全真空?面对这样的追问，五角大楼官员指出了美国在本月袭击菲律宾的灾难性台风当中的表现，以此作为回应。美国迅速调动了数百名海军陆战队(Marine)队员，数十艘运输机和一整支航母攻击舰队，相比之下，中国提供的军事援助相对薄弱。
However, President Obama is fielding a new national security team with views on Asia that are still coalescing and with relatively little experience in the region.
然而，心怀亚洲的奥巴马总统拥有的是一支新的国家安全队伍，这支队伍还在磨合之中，对该地区的经验相对较少。
In her first major speech on Asia policy last week, Mr. Obama’s national security adviser, Susan E. Rice, did not mention the mutual defense clause in the treaty between the United States and Japan — an omission her colleagues dismissed as irrelevant, since American officials reiterate it religiously, but which troubled some in Japan.
上周，奥巴马的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)发表了她关于亚洲政策的第一次重要演讲。她在演讲中没有提到美日安保条约里的共同防卫条款，她的同僚认为这一遗漏无关紧要，因为美国官员经常信誓旦旦地重申该条款，然而，这一点却让某些日本人感到担忧。
But Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel wasted no time in responding to the initial Chinese declaration, issuing a statement reiterating that the United States is “steadfast in our commitments to our allies and partners. The United States reaffirms its longstanding policy that Article V of the U.S.-Japan Mutual Defense Treaty applies to the Senkaku Islands.”
不过，国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)在回应中国的最初公告时可谓争分夺秒。他发表了一则声明，重申美国将“坚定不移地履行对盟友和伙伴的承诺。美国在此重申自己的一贯政策，即《美日安保条约》(U.S.-Japan Mutual Defense Treaty)第五条适用于尖阁诸岛。”
American officials said Tuesday that the United States military would continue to stage a standard cycle of training flights in that area.
美国官员周二表示，美国军方会继续在该区域进行标准的周期性飞行训练。
China’s declaration on Saturday, from a Ministry of National Defense spokesman, Col. Yang Yujun, accompanied the ministry’s release of a map, geographic coordinates and rules in Chinese and English that said “China’s armed forces will take defensive emergency measures to respond to aircraft that do not cooperate in identification or refuse to follow orders.”
中国国防部发言人杨宇军上校于上周六发布识别区声明的同时，国防部还公布了一张地图、几个地理坐标和中英双语的规定，规定说“对不配合识别或者拒不服从指令的航空器，中国武装力量将采取防御性紧急处置措施。”
After the announcement, several Japanese commercial airlines that fly over the area, including Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airlines, began filing flight plans to China, according to the Japanese government. On Tuesday, a group representing those airlines, Japan’s two largest, issued a statement saying that the airlines would heed their government’s request to stop filing flight plans.
根据日本政府的消息，声明发布后，几家飞经该空域的日本航空公司开始向中方报备飞行计划，其中包括日本航空公司(Japan Airlines)和全日空航空公司(All Nippon Airlines)。上述公司是日本最大的两家航空公司，一个团体于周二晚些时候代表它们发布声明，表示会接受当局的要求，停止报备飞行计划。
“I believe it is important for the public and private sectors to cooperate in showing our firm resolve to China,” said Japan’s foreign minister, Fumio Kishida.
日本外相岸田文雄(Fumio Kishida)说，“我认为，为了向中国彰显我们的坚定决心，公共部门和私营企业的合作是至关重要的。”
Just how China would enforce the rules, including prior announcement of flight plans and logo identification for foreign aircraft that entered the zone, may not be clear for a while, experts said. But the severe language that accompanied the announcement, and the fact that the new Chinese air defense zone overlapped with Japan’s long established air defense zone dating from 1969 was alarming, they said.
一些专家说，一段时间之内，人们可能无法清楚地知道中国将如何执行相关规定，包括进入识别区的外国飞行器应如何提前报备航班计划和识别标志。不过，他们说，这份声明措辞严厉，新划设的中国防空识别区又与日本于1969年设立并沿用至今的防空识别区有重合，这些事实令人担忧。
In describing China’s operation of the new zone, a senior colonel at the National Defense University, Meng Xiangqing, told China’s main television broadcaster, CCTV, that once foreign aircraft entered the area, ground missile forces, including antiaircraft missiles, should be on a state of alert.
讲述中国管控新防空区的方式时，国防大学的大校孟祥青对中国主要的电视台中央电视台表示，一旦外国航空器进入识别区，包括防空导弹在内的地面导弹部队就应进入警戒状态。