AL RASHID AIR BASE, Iraq — By Day 2 of the U.S. airstrike campaign against militants holed up in Tikrit, the mission appeared beleaguered on several fronts on Thursday: Thousands of Shiite militiamen boycotted the fight in protest, others threatened to attack any Americans they found, and Iraqi officials said nine of their fighters had been accidentally killed in an airstrike.
伊拉克拉希德空军基地——本周四，美国空袭躲藏在提克里特的武装分子第二天，这个行动似乎受到了多方面的打击：数以千计的什叶派民兵抵制战斗以示抗议，其他人威胁要袭击他们发现的任何美国人，而伊拉克官员说，他们有九名士兵在空袭中被误杀。
In Washington, U.S. military leaders insisted that things were going according to plan. They said that they were stepping into the Tikrit fight only after the Iranian- and militia-led advance on the city had stalled after three weeks, and that they welcomed working solely with Iraqi government forces.
在华盛顿，美国军方领导人坚称，事情在按计划进行。他们说，直到伊朗人和民兵引领的战斗在三周后陷入胶着状态之后，他们才参与了提克里特之战，而且他们只乐于与伊拉克政府军合作。
Gen. Lloyd Austin, the head of the U.S. Central Command, told a Senate hearing on Thursday that no Shiite militias remained in Tikrit.
美国中央司令部司令劳埃德·奥斯汀(Lloyd Austin)上将在本周四的听证会上告诉参议院，没有什叶派民兵仍然留在提克里特。
While the withdrawal of Iranian-led Shiite militias was one of the preconditions for the Americans to join the fight against the Islamic State in Tikrit, the sudden departure of three of the major groups risked leaving the Iraqi ground forces short-handed, especially if other Shiite militiamen also abandoned the fight.
虽然伊朗人领导的什叶派民兵撤离，是美国人参加在提克里特反对伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的战斗先决条件之一，但三个主要组织的突然离开导致伊拉克地面部队人手短缺，如果其它什叶派民兵也放弃战斗，情况就会更加严重。
The three militia groups, some of which had Iranian advisers with them until recently, pulled out of the Tikrit fight to protest the U.S. airstrikes, which began late on Wednesday night, insisting that the Americans were not needed to defeat the extremists in Tikrit.
这三个民兵团体的其中一两个之前有伊朗顾问；三个团体撤出提克里特的战场，以抗议美国本周三晚间开始的空袭，他们坚称，在提克里特打击极端分子没有必要让美国人参与。
Too great or abrupt a withdrawal by militia forces, analysts said, could complicate the entire Iraqi counteroffensive. Even with the militias involved, officials said the current pro-government force would not be large enough to eventually help take Mosul back from the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
分析师表示，民兵突然撤出，或者撤出的人数过多，可能会让伊拉克的整个反扑行动变得更加棘手。官员们表示，即使有民兵参与，目前的亲政府力量仍然不够强大，不足以最终从伊斯兰国手中夺回摩苏尔。伊斯兰国也被称为ISIS或ISIL。
Top officials at the Pentagon appeared to think that it would not be easy to retake even Tikrit without Iranian help. “It's going to require the kind of hammer and anvil approach of ground forces forcing ISIL to respond in ways that they're targetable by air power,” one Defense Department official said. “But we're less than 24 hours into it.”
五角大楼高级官员似乎认为，没有伊朗的帮助，就连夺回提克里特都不容易。“这需要地面部队采取槌钴战术，迫使ISIL做出那种可以受到空中力量打击的反应，”国防部(Defense Department)一位官员说。“我们参与行动还不到24小时。”
Another official, asked if he was worried that the United States now owned the Tikrit operation, said, “Yes. This was a calculated risk, but it's one that had to be taken.” Both officials spoke on grounds of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the issue.
当被问及是否担心提克里特的行动现在变成由美国来负责时，另一位官员回答道：“是的。我们考量过这其中的风险，但这个险必须冒。”由于没有在这个问题上公开发言的权限，这两名官员都不愿具名。