KILLEEN, Texas — A soldier who was being evaluated for post-traumatic stress disorder opened fire at Fort Hood on Wednesday, killing three people and wounding 16 before killing himself, the authorities said. The shooting set off a huge police response and shut down the sprawling Army base, the same facility where a deadly rampage by an officer resulted in 13 deaths in 2009.
德克萨斯州基林——有关当局表示，周三，一名正在因创伤后压力障碍接受评估的士兵在胡德堡基地开火，导致3人死亡，16人受伤，随后自杀身亡。枪击事件促使警方作出强烈回应，关闭了这个规模庞大的陆军基地。2009年，一名军官曾在同一个基地狂暴杀戮，致使13人死亡。
Fort Hood’s commanding general said the gunman, an Army specialist who had served in Iraq and was being treated for behavioral and mental health issues, had died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. The commander, Lt. Gen. Mark A. Milley, told reporters that the soldier’s motive remained unclear, but that the shooting did not appear to be related to terrorism.
胡德堡基地指挥官马克·A·米莱(Mark A. Milley)中将表示，身为陆军专业军士的这名枪手是饮弹自尽的，此人曾在伊拉克服役，事发时正在因行为及心理健康问题接受治疗。指挥官告诉记者，尚不清楚这名士兵的动机，但枪击事件似乎与恐怖主义无关。
A Pentagon official said the suspected gunman was Army Specialist Ivan Lopez. General Milley, while not identifying Specialist Lopez by name, said the gunman had served four months in Iraq in 2011 and was being evaluated for post-traumatic stress disorder, but had not yet been diagnosed with the condition. There were indications that he had self-reported a traumatic brain injury when he returned from Iraq, General Milley said.
五角大楼的一名官员表示，枪击嫌犯是陆军专业军士伊万·洛佩斯(Ivan Lopez)。米莱中将没有透露枪手的名字，只是称枪手曾于2011年在伊拉克服役四个月，正在因创伤后压力障碍而接受评估，但尚未被诊断患有这种疾病。米莱表示，有迹象表明，从伊拉克回到美国时，他曾报告自己遭受了创伤性脑损伤。
Reports of the shooting sent dozens of local, state and federal law enforcement officials rushing to the base in Killeen as they had in November 2009. In Chicago, President Obama said that White House and Pentagon officials were following the events closely. “We are going to get to the bottom of exactly what happened,” the president said. “We’re heartbroken something like this might have happened again.”
枪击事件的消息促使数十名当地、州及联邦执法官员急忙赶到该基地，动作像2009年11月一样快。奥巴马总统在芝加哥表示，白宫和五角大楼的官员们正在密切关注该事件。“我们将彻底查明事情的原委，”奥巴马说。“这样的事情竟然再度发生，我们感到非常悲伤。”
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, said that many questions remained but that officials’ focus was on supporting the victims and their families. “This is a community that has faced and overcome crises with resilience and strength,” he said in a statement.
美国参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)表示，很多疑问尚未得到澄清，但官员们的工作重点是帮助受害者及其家属。他发表声明称，“我们是一个曾经面临危机，也曾凭借坚韧和力量克服危机的集体。”
The episode appeared to have unfolded around 4:30 p.m. at a medical support building. Witnesses described chaos as gunshots rang out.
枪击事件似乎发生在下午4点30分左右，地点是医疗大楼。目击者称，枪声响起之时，现场一片混乱。
The authorities said Specialist Lopez appeared to have walked into one building, then gone inside a vehicle and fired shots from the vehicle with a .45-caliber Smith & Wesson semiautomatic pistol that had recently been bought in the Killeen area. He got out of the vehicle, walked into another building and opened fire again, and then engaged with a female military police officer before shooting himself.
有关当局表示，专业军士洛佩斯似乎走入了其中一栋建筑，然后坐进一辆汽车，从车里往外开枪，用的是他最近在基林地区购买的史密斯-韦森(Smith & Wesson)0.45口径半自动手枪。他从车里走出来，走进另一栋建筑，然后再次开枪。随后他碰上了宪兵队的一名女军官，再后来便开枪自杀。
He put his hands up, General Milley said, then reached under his jacket. The female officer pulled out her weapon, and then Specialist Lopez put his weapon to his head and fired. General Milley described the officer’s actions as “clearly heroic,” adding: “She did her job. She did exactly what we would expect of U.S. Army military police.”
米莱中将说，他先是举起双手，之后又把手伸到了上衣下面。女军官掏出武器之后，洛佩斯把枪顶到自己的脑袋上开了火。米莱中将称，女军官的行为“无疑相当英勇”，并且补充说，“她尽到了职责。她的所作所为完全符合我们对美国陆军宪兵的期待。”
Specialist Lopez had arrived at Fort Hood in February from another installation, officials said.
官员们说，专业军士洛佩斯是于今年2月从另一处军事基地来到胡德堡的。
Scott and White Memorial Hospital in nearby Temple, Tex., said it had received eight patients and expected one more. Three victims were in critical condition, and five others were expected to be upgraded from serious to fair condition overnight. The injuries included gunshot wounds to the abdomen, chest and neck.
斯科特怀特医院位于基地附近的德克萨斯州坦普尔，(Scott and White Memorial Hospital)，该医院表示他们已收治了八名伤者，预计还会再收一名。有三名受害者情况危急，还有五名受害者有望在一夜治疗之后从重伤转为良好。伤者的枪伤部位包括腹部、胸口和颈部。
The heightened alert brought back memories of the previous shooting at Fort Hood.
胡德堡高度戒备的状态让人回想起该基地之前发生的一起枪击案。
On Nov. 5, 2009, Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, a military psychiatrist, opened fire inside the Soldier Readiness Processing Center, shooting unarmed soldiers and commissioned officers. Prosecutors said one of his motivations was to kill as many soldiers as he could to wage jihad on American military personnel. A Senate report called it the worst act of terrorism on American soil since the Sept. 11 attacks.
2009年11月5日，陆军精神病医生尼达尔·马利克·哈桑少校(Nidal Malik Hasan)在士兵预备处理中心(Soldier Readiness Processing Center)开枪射击手无寸铁的士兵和军官。检察官指出，他的动机之一是尽可能多地杀害士兵，借此向美国军方人员发起圣战。参议院的一份报告称，那次枪击案是9:11袭击以来发生在美国本土的性质最恶劣的恐怖主义事件。
After a military trial that was held at the base last year under tight security, a jury of 13 senior Army officers found Major Hasan guilty and sentenced him to death. He was transferred after the trial to Fort Leavenworth in Kansas, home of the military’s death row and death chamber.
去年，安保严密的军事审判在胡德堡举行，由13名陆军高级军官组成的陪审团认定哈桑少校有罪，并判处他死刑。庭审后，他被转移到了堪萨斯州的莱文沃思堡(Fort Leavenworth)，那里是军方死囚牢房和死刑执行室的所在地。
In addition to the shooting in 2009 and the one on Wednesday, Fort Hood was the site of a planned attack that was foiled by the authorities.
除了2009年的枪击案和本周三的枪击案之外，胡德堡还曾发生一起被当局挫败的阴谋袭击事件。
Representative Michael McCaul, Republican of Texas and chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, said the three episodes had given him concern that the base was “becoming a target for potential jihadists.”
德克萨斯州共和党众议员、国土安全委员会主席迈克尔·麦考尔(Michael McCaul)表示，这三起事件让他担心，胡德堡“已成为潜在圣战分子的攻击目标”。
In Washington, intelligence officials said they were investigating potential terrorist connections to the shooting, but so far had no evidence to suggest any.
在华盛顿，情报官员表示，他们正在调查此次枪击案是否与恐怖主义分子有关，但目前尚无证据显示此类关连。