President Obama may be right: free trade is a winning strategy that will lower consumer costs and expand employment in exporting industries.
奥巴马总统也许说得对：自由贸易是一个致胜策略，它会减少消费者的购物成本，增加出口产业的就业机会。
“When 98 percent of our exporters are small businesses, new trade partnerships with Europe and the Asia-Pacific will help them create even more jobs,” the president declared in this year’s State of the Union address.
奥巴马在今年的国情咨文(State of the Union)演说中表示，“我们的出口商98%都是小企业，与欧洲和亚太地区建立新的贸易伙伴关系，有助于让这些企业创造更多的就业机会。”
In the short run, however, trade imposes heavy costs on American workers in both the manufacturing and service sectors, particularly on those least equipped by training and education to adapt.
但是在短期内，自由贸易却让美国制造业和服务业的工人付出了沉重的代价，对于那些最缺乏培训和教育来适应新局面的工人来说尤为如此。
Branko Milanovic, a visiting professor at CUNY who once served as a senior economist at the World Bank, has tracked worldwide changes in income growth from 1998 to 2008.
纽约市立大学(CUNY)客座教授布兰科·米拉诺维奇(Branko Milanovic)曾在世界银行(World Bank)担任高级经济学家，他跟踪了1998年至2008年间全球范围内的收入增长变化。
Milanovic calculates that the middle class in China and India experienced 60 to 70 percent income growth from 1998 to 2008, while growth stalled for the middle and working classes in the United States.
根据米拉诺维奇的计算，中国和印度中产阶层的收入在1998年至2008年增长了60%到70%，而美国中产阶级和工薪阶级的收入却停滞不前。
The question then becomes, in Milanovic’s words, “Does the growth of China and India take place on the back of the middle class in rich countries,” especially the United States? Milanovic does not claim a direct causal relationship, but contends that the two “may not be unrelated.”
那么用米拉诺维奇的话来说，问题就变成了：“中国和印度的增长难道是以富国中产阶级为代价才取得的”，尤其是美国的中产阶级？米拉诺维奇并没有提出这两者之间存在直接的因果关系，但表示“不会没有关系”。
Milanovic has his critics.
米拉诺维奇的观点遭到了一些人的批评。
I asked Jagdish Bhagwati, a professor of economics at Columbia and an expert on international trade, for a different perspective on the impact of rapid growth in India and China on households in the United States. Bhagwati countered with two points. First, that technological innovation is driving wages down; and, second, that there are substantial gains to American consumers from foreign trade.
关于印度和中国的快速增长给美国家庭带来的影响，我向国际贸易方面的专家、哥伦比亚大学(Columbia)经济学教授贾格迪什·巴格沃蒂(Jagdish Bhagwati)寻求了不同的意见。巴格沃蒂从两个方面进行了反驳：第一，技术创新正在推动工资下降；第二，对外贸易给美国消费者带来了可观的好处。
As Bhagwati put it: “There is an alternative narrative that says the pressure on our workers’ incomes arises from continual and deep labor-saving technical change; that many labor-intensive activities have already been lost here; and that therefore the workers are not going to lose as producers from lowered world prices of labor-intensive goods, but rather the workers will gain as consumers benefit from these cheapening prices. In this scenario or narrative, trade with the poor countries (e.g. flip-flops, cheap lingerie from Macy’s rather than more expensive lingerie from Victoria’s Secret) moderates the fall in wages that technical change brings about.”
巴格沃蒂说：“另外一种论述是：节省劳动力的技术变革持续而深入，它对美国工人的收入构成了压力；美国很多劳动力密集型工作岗位已经消失；因此工人作为生产者不会因为劳动密集型商品的全球价格降低而蒙受损失，实际上工人作为消费者还会受益于这些商品价格的降低。在这种状况下，与穷国开展贸易（比如梅西百货[Macy’s]的夹趾拖鞋、廉价内衣，而不是维多利亚的秘密[Victoria’s Secret]那样的昂贵内衣）缓和了技术变革导致的工资下降。”
Entering the fray, three economists – David Autor of M.I.T., David Dorn of the Center for Monetary and Financial Studies in Spain, and Gordon Hanson of the University of California, San Diego – have analyzed the employment consequences of globalized trade and technological advance.
三位经济学家加入了这场辩论，他们是麻省理工学院(MIT)的经济学家戴维·奥特(David Autor)、西班牙货币与金融研究中心(Center for Monetary and Financial Studies)的戴维·多恩(David Dorn)，以及加州大学圣迭戈分校的戈登·汉森(Gordon Hanson)。三个人分析了全球化贸易和技术进步对就业的影响。
In a series of papers they wrote together – “Trade Adjustment: Worker Level Evidence,” “The China Syndrome: Local Labor Market Effects of Import Competition in the United States,” and “Untangling Trade and Technology: Evidence from Local Labor Markets” — Autor, Dorn and Hanson find that in the case of trade with China, there are very painful consequences for specific categories of American workers.
他们共同撰写了一系列论文：《贸易调整：工人层面的证据》(Trade Adjustment: Worker Level Evidence)、《中国综合征：进口竞争对美国本地劳动力市场的影响》(The China Syndrome: Local Labor Market Effects of Import Competition in the United States)、《理顺贸易和技术：来自本地劳动力市场的证据》(Untangling Trade and Technology: Evidence from Local Labor Markets)。在这些研究中，奥特、多恩和汉森发现，对于某些具体类别的美国工人而言，与中国进行贸易带来了非常痛苦的后果。
Their findings show why voters are wary of free trade agreements.
他们的研究显示了，为什么选民会对自由贸易协定持警觉的态度。
Relative to the average employee in manufacturing, workers in industries that face stronger competition from imports “garner lower cumulative earnings and are at elevated risk of exiting the labor force and obtaining public disability benefits,” Autor, Dorn and Hanson write.
奥特、多恩和汉森写道，相对于一般的制造业雇员，在进口竞争较为激烈的行业中，工人“获得的累计收入更低，退出劳动力队伍、领公共伤残补助金的风险更高”。
And if manufacturers are ranked on a scale of 1 to 100 for exposure to import competition from China, between 1992 and 2007, workers in firms high on the exposure scale lost nearly half a year’s pay, compared to workers in firms at the low end of the scale.
如果以1至100的分值，给制造企业在1992年到2007年间受到中国进口竞争冲击的程度打分，那么受冲击程度高的企业的工人，与受冲击程度低的企业相比，少获得了将近半年的工资。
The exposure of American workers to import competition from China more than doubled after China’s entry into the World Trade Organization in 2001; one quarter of the decline in manufacturing employment in the United States since 2000 can be explained by import competition.
中国在2001年加入世界贸易组织(WTO)之后，中国进口竞争对美国工人冲击增加了一倍多；美国自2000年以来减少的制造业就业岗位，有四分之一可以用进口竞争来解释。
The authors calculate the income losses over a period of 10 years during which imports from China increased by $1,000 for each American worker in a competitive industry. The decline was sharper for the subset of workers without college degrees, at 1.21 percentage points, compared to a 0.53 percentage point decline for those with college degrees, but it is notable that wages for both groups fell.
三位作者计算了在一段为期10年的时间中，美国一个竞争激烈的行业遭受的收入损失，这期间来自中国的进口额增长产生的影响，平均到该行业每个工人身上达到了1000美元（约合人民币6100元）。没有大学学历的工人收入损失幅度比较大，为1.21%，有大学学历的工人则为0.53%，但值得注意的是，两个类别的工人收入都下降了。
The domestic employment declines resulting from trade with China are disproportionately high in states where labor-intensive manufacturing of furniture, toys, apparel, footwear and leather goods has been most concentrated: Tennessee, Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina and Indiana.
在家具、玩具、服装、鞋类和皮革制品这些劳动密集型制造业比较集中的州，与中国开展贸易导致的就业岗位减少幅度格外严重。它们是田纳西州、密苏里州、阿肯色州、密西西比州、阿拉巴马州、乔治亚州、北卡罗来纳州和印第安纳州。
Another group of economists that includes Avraham Ebenstein of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Margaret McMillan of Tufts, Ann Harrison of the Wharton School, and Shannon Phillips of Boston College have found similarly negative effects on workers in this country from trade with low-wage countries.
另一组经济学家也得出了类似的发现：与低工资国家之间的贸易对美国的工人带来了负面的影响。这些经济学家包括耶路撒冷希伯来大学(Hebrew University of Jerusalem)的亚伯拉罕·艾宾斯坦(Avraham Ebenstein)、塔夫斯大学(Tufts)的玛格丽特·麦克米伦(Margaret McMillan)、沃顿商学院(Wharton School)的安·哈里森(Ann Harrison)和波士顿学院(Boston College)的香农·菲利普斯(Shannon Phillips)。
In their paper “Why Are American Workers Getting Poorer?” these four economists find that “offshoring to low wage countries is associated with wage declines for U.S. workers, and the workers most affected are those performing routine tasks. Import competition is associated with wage declines, while exports are associated with wage increases. We present evidence that globalization has led to the reallocation of workers away from higher wage manufacturing jobs into other sectors and other occupations. We estimate that occupation switching due to trade led to real wage losses of 12 to 17 percent.”
在他们的论文《美国工人为什么变穷了？》(Why Are American Workers Getting Poorer?)当中，这四位经济学家发现， “将工作外包给低工资国家，与美国工人工资下降之间存在关联，并且受影响最严重是那些从事重复性工作的工人。进口竞争和工资下降之间存在关联，而出口则和工资上涨有关联。我们给出的证据表明，全球化导致工人从工资较高的制造业岗位，流动到了其他行业或岗位上。我们估计，贸易造成的职业转换，导致实际工资下降了12%到17%”。
A separate paper, “Understanding the Role of China in the ‘Decline’ of US Manufacturing,” by Ebenstein, McMillan, Yaohui Zhao and Chanchuan Zhang, both of Peking University, found that “Chinese employment growth has been largest in industries with US employment declines, suggesting substitution between US and Chinese workers” and that “during the sample period, while the share of workers performing routine occupations in the US declined, the share increased in China, and these changes were correlated across industries.”
在另一篇论文，《理解中国在美国制造业‘衰落’中扮演的角色》(Understanding the Role of China in the "Decline" of US Manufacturing)当中，作者艾宾斯坦、麦克米伦，以及北京大学的赵耀辉和张川川发现，“中国就业增幅最大的行业正是美国就业下降的行业，这表明美国工人被中国工人替换了”，而且“在样本期里，美国从事重复性工作的工人比例下降了，而在中国对应的比例上升了，而且在不同行业里，这些变化都存在相关性”。
The question that arises next is whether the detrimental consequences of trade for developed countries are inevitable in a global marketplace, and whether those negative consequences outweigh the benefits.
接下来出现的问题是，在全球市场上，贸易给发达国家带来的消极影响是否无法避免，以及那些消极影响是否超过了贸易带来的收益。
Ellen Frost, an adjunct fellow at the East-West Center who was counselor to the U.S. Trade Representative from 1993 to 1995, posed a rhetorical question during a phone interview: “If you sealed borders and did not trade, would you be able to stop the decline in manufacturing jobs?” Frost pointed out that “it’s a political fact that jobs actually or allegedly lost are much more visible than gains from imports or exports.” Echoing Bhagwati, Frost mentioned the positive outcomes for American consumers, like the way that foreign competition forced the domestic auto industry to pay attention to quality and to stop producing “crummy cars.”
曾在1993年至1995年间担任美国贸易代表的东西研究中心(East-West Center)副研究员埃伦·弗罗斯特(Ellen Frost)在接受电话采访时反问道：“封闭边境、不开展贸易，就能阻止制造业就业岗位的减少吗？”弗罗斯特指出，“就业岗位实际上的减少或是所谓的减少，比进出口带来的好处要更容易被看到。这在政治上是一个事实。”弗罗斯特说到了美国消费者得到的好处，比如外国竞争迫使国内汽车行业关注质量，不再制造“烂车”，在这一点上他和巴格瓦蒂意见一致。
Free traders argue that attempts to ameliorate the effects of trade can prove to be extremely costly.
主张自由贸易的人提出，减轻贸易冲击的努力，可能会耗资巨大。
Gary Clyde Hufbauer and Sean Lowry, both of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, make this case in their paper “US Tire Tariffs: Saving Few Jobs at High Cost.”
彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)的加里·克莱德·赫夫鲍尔(Gary Clyde Hufbauer)和肖恩·劳里(Sean Lowry)也在他们的论文《美国轮胎关税：以高昂代价挽救少量就业》(US Tire Tariffs: Saving Few Jobs at High Cost)中论述了这一点。
The Obama administration’s decision to restrict tire imports from China, they contend, “saved a maximum of 1,200 jobs” at “the total cost to American consumers from higher prices” of $1.1 billion in 2011. “The cost per job saved was at least $900,000 in that year. Only a very small fraction of this bloated figure reached the pockets of tire workers. Instead, most of the money landed in the coffers of tire companies, mainly abroad but also at home.”
他们称，2011年，奥巴马政府限制从中国进口轮胎的决定“至多挽救了1200个就业岗位”，但“价格提高让美国消费者付出的代价总计”高达11亿美元。“当年，为挽救一个就业岗位付出的代价至少有90万美元。这一巨大金额中，只有极小一部分进入了轮胎工人的口袋。相反，大部分钱进入了轮胎公司手中，主要是外国公司，但也有国内公司。”