Bidding wars sound almost quaint. These days, the only way for would-be buyers to secure a home, it often seems, is to offer all cash and be ready to do so within hours, not days.
竞购战听上去几乎是不可思议的。这些天，对那些想买房子的人来说，似乎保住一套房子的唯一途径往往就是在数小时内准备好全额现金付款，而不是几天。
The bursting of last decade’s housing bubble feels like ancient history here, where first-time home buyers are competing with investors to get into single-family homes with prices approaching $1 million.
洛杉矶持续十年之久的房产泡沫的破裂仿佛已经是很久以前的事情。如今，首次购房者正在和投资者竞争，以近100万美元（约合613万元人民币）的价格竞购家庭独栋住宅。
“It’s everyone from a kid out of law school to an investor from China, walking around with thousands to spend,” said Kameron Eliassian, a Los Angeles real estate agent. “I don’t know where it’s coming from, and I don’t care. Just show me proof that it’s there, and we’re good.”
洛杉矶的一名房地产中介卡梅伦·伊莱亚森(Kameron Eliassian)说，“从法学院的毕业生到来自中国的投资者，所有人都攥着几十万现金四处走动，随时准备出手。我不知道他们的钱来自哪里，我也不在乎。他们只要用证据向我证明钱准备好了，一切就都好说。”
After saving money for years, waiting for the residential real estate market to hit bottom, buyers all over the country appear eager to get back in, lured by low interest rates and the prospect of a good deal.
多年以来，全国的买家们一直在存钱，等着住宅房产市场触底，而在低利率和可能买到好房子的诱惑之下，他们现在似乎急于回归市场。
But with the number of homes for sale at historically low levels and large investors purchasing thousands of properties, buyers are facing a radically changed market and prices are quickly rising.
不过，由于待售房屋的数量处于历史新低，而且大投资者正在买下数以千计的房产，买家们正面临一个完全不同的市场，房价正在快速攀升。
The percentage of homes bought with cash has shot up in many markets across the nation. Nearly a third of all homes purchased in Los Angeles during the first quarter of this year went for all cash, compared with just 7 percent in 2007. In Miami, 65 percent of homes sold were for cash deals, compared with 16 percent six years ago.
在全美许多市场，以现金购房的比例已经大增。今年第一季度，将近三分之一的洛杉矶房屋交易是以全额现金付款，而2007年的这个比例只有7%。在迈阿密，65%的售出房产是以现金交易的，相比之下，6年前的比例是16%。
The prices on all-cash deals are also rising significantly. In Los Angeles, the median price on an all-cash home this year is about $351,000, compared with $230,000 in 2009. Over the same period, the median price over all increased to $410,000, up $85,000. In fact, last month, home prices in Southern California hit their highest level in the last five years.
全额现金付款交易的价格也在大幅上涨。今年，洛杉矶一栋以全额现金购买的房屋的价格中位数是35.1万美元（215万元人民币），相比之下，2009年的对应数字是23万美元。在同一时期，美国整体的房屋交易中位数上涨了8.5万美元，至41万美元。实际上，南加利福尼亚州的房价在上个月达到了过去五年里的最高水平。
All-cash buyers, typically investors eager to renovate and quickly resell or rent out homes, are making it more difficult for first-time buyers, who typically rely on mortgage loans that can take weeks or months to materialize. More California homes have been flipped in the last year than in any year since 2005.
全额现金买家的行为让首次购房者面临更大困难。因为典型的全额现金买家都是急于把房子翻新之后迅速再卖出去、或租出去的投资者，而首次购房者通常要依赖可能需要数周、或数月才能开始发放的抵押贷款来购房。去年，加州房子的换手率是自2005年以来最高的。
And while Los Angeles may be a center of the frenzy, it is not an anomaly. Buyers in Boston are offering $100,000 more than the asking price or placing offers on homes they have spent only minutes in. In San Francisco, Miami and Phoenix, sellers are looking at dozens of offers within days of putting their home on the market, often accompanied by letters from would-be buyers professing their love for the property. New York City has seen similar drops in inventory, and prices have been rising steadily since 2009.
尽管洛杉矶可能是这次竞购风潮的一个中心，它却并非独一无二。波士顿的买家正以高出报价10万美元的价格竞买，或者给他们只待了几分钟的房子出价。在旧金山、迈阿密和凤凰城，卖家刚把房子投入市场几天就会收到几十人出价，往往还附有想买房子的人写下的表明对房子热爱的信函。纽约也目睹了类似的待售房库存下跌的情况，自2009年之后，那里的房价一直在稳步上升。
Shortly after Andres Alvarez, 36, got married last fall, he began to look for a home with his wife, figuring that their steady jobs, savings and good credit would make them the perfect buyers in Los Angeles. They were ready to spend $700,000. Their optimism deflated quickly.
36岁的安德烈斯·阿尔瓦雷斯(Andres Alvarez)于去年秋天结婚，此后不久就开始和妻子寻找住房，夫妻俩认为，他们工作稳定，有一定存款以及良好的信用，这些能让他们成为洛杉矶市场上的理想买家。他们准备花70万美元购房。但他们的乐观情绪很快就消失殆尽。
“We thought we were the cream of the crop, but anything that was in our price range and move-in ready, there was this insane competition,” Mr. Alvarez said. They put in nearly a dozen bids, often losing to cash buyers, before finding a two-bedroom home for $650,000. “It might be a great time to buy, but it’s a horrible time to be a buyer,” he said.
阿尔瓦雷斯说，“我以为，我们属于百里挑一的买家，可是任何属于我们的价格范围之内、又可以即刻入住的房子，竞争都非常激烈。”在找到一间要价65万美元的两居住所之前，他们参加了十几次竞价，往往败于现金买家之手。他说，“现在可能是买房的好时机，可是对买家来说，却是一个可怕的时刻。”
Still, there are plenty of skeptics wondering how long the sharp price increases can last.
但还是有许多怀疑者在想，房价的这种大幅上涨还能持续多久。
“People are realizing we’ve probably hit bottom, but the kinds of spikes we’re seeing in places like California seems like history is repeating itself,” said Daren Blomquist of RealtyTrac, which monitors residential sales. “That’s not sustainable for the long term, at least not for the regular home buyer, so I think there are some warning flags there.”
“人们正在意识到，我们可能已经触底了，但我们现在在加利福尼亚等地看到的这种涨价情形，就好像是历史重演了，”监控住宅销售的RealtyTrac公司的达郎·布洛姆奎斯特(Daren Blomquist)说。“从长远来看，这是不可持续的，至少对普通买房者来说是不可行，因此，我觉得我们需要有所警惕。”
Lewis Legon, a developer in Salem, Mass., jumped into the Boston market after he saw how many people were showing up at open houses. “It was like Times Square,” he said of one open house, at a property listed for $1.5 million. He beat out two dozen other bidders by offering $1.8 million in cash, not the first time he had made an all-cash offer.
马萨诸塞州塞勒姆的开发商刘易斯·莱贡(Lewis Legon)看到许多人都会在开放日参观待售房屋，于是他也迅速进入了波士顿市场。“感觉就好像是在时报广场(Times Square)一样，”他在说起一处标价150万美元的房产的开放日活动时说。他用180万美元现金支付的报价打败了其他二十多个竞争对手，这并不是他第一次全额现金报价。
“The first time I was ready to have a heart attack,” he said of all-cash buy. “But it makes you a more attractive buyer and helps you stand out.”
“第一次的时候，我做好了心脏病发作的准备，”他说的是全额现金购房，“但它会让你成为更有吸引力的买家，帮你脱颖而出。”
He also waived the inspection clause, an increasingly common practice. While offers have typically included appraisal clauses, allowing buyers to back out if the home was valued below what they were willing to pay, offers today are more likely to include escalation clauses, saying buyers will pay an additional amount over the highest bid.
他还放弃了检验条款，这是一种越来越常见的做法。尽管出价通常都包含估价条款，根据这一条款，如果房屋的估值低于买方愿意支付的价钱，买方可以退出，但如今的出价更可能包含升价条款，规定买方需要在最高竞价之上再付一笔额外的钱。
“Buyers are taking a lot more risks than they ever would before,” said Dana DeSimone, a Boston real estate agent who called the current market an “insane asylum.” “I don’t know that I’ve ever heard of waiving the inspection contingency on a 150-year-old brownstone until now.”
“买家所冒的风险远比以前多，”波士顿房地产经纪人达纳·德西蒙(Dana DeSimone)说。他说当前市场是一个“疯人院”。“放弃对一座有150年历史的褐沙石连体住宅进行检验，我以前可从没听说过。”
Now, agents say their biggest challenge is potential sellers who are wary of putting their home on the market because they fear they cannot find a place to buy.
如今，经纪人表示，他们最大的挑战是，一些潜在的卖家因为担心找不到能买的房子，往往对挂牌出售自己现有的房屋十分谨慎。
Jeff and Lorena Leininger considered moving from their suburban Los Angeles home over the last several years, but they feared they would not get as much as they paid for it. But this year, with their youngest child getting ready for kindergarten, they decided it was time. Three days after showing the home, they had nine offers.
过去几年，杰夫·莱宁格尔(Jeff Leininger)和洛雷娜·莱宁格尔(Lorena Leininger)一直考虑搬离他们位于洛杉矶郊区的家，但他们害怕房屋的售价不及当初的买价。但今年，他们最小的孩子都能上幼儿园了，他们决定是时候搬家了。房子挂牌三天后，他们便收到了9份报价。
“It felt as crazy as it was back when we bought 10 years ago,” Mr. Leininger said. “But it was much worse on the other side. We would show up to an open house, and it was already sold. The clear message was: be ready to move fast or just get left out.”
“这感觉和我们10年前买房时一样疯狂，”  莱宁格尔说，“但从另一方面来说，情况也更糟。我们会去参观待售房屋，但房子已经卖出去了。形势很明确：做好迅速行动的准备，否则就会一无所获。”
Even in Florida, where the market was once swamped with foreclosures, there are signs of the latest boom, with cash purchases fueled in part by international investors and retirees awash in cash after selling their homes elsewhere.
佛罗里达州的房产市场曾一度到处都是法院在拍卖房屋，但即使在那里，也能感觉到最近的市场繁荣，现金买家在一定程度上是由国际投资者和退休人员构成，这些退休人员卖掉了他们在其他地方的房屋，因此拥有充足的现金。
Don Faught, a manager with Alain Pinel Realtors near San Francisco, said the current market is turning buyers to desperation, particularly because the turnaround has come so quickly.
旧金山附近的房地产中介公司Alain Pinel Realtors的经理唐福特(Don Faught)说，目前的市场正在让买房者陷入绝望，特别是因为形势逆转得如此之快。
“A year ago, people didn’t want a deal, they wanted a steal,” he said. “Sellers were listing homes for less than what they originally paid for them and offering all these concessions. Now, the only concessions are coming from the buyers.”
“一年前，人们不想交易，只想拣便宜货，”他说，“卖房者当时的要价会低于他们当初买房时的价格，而且愿意做出所有这些让步。而现在，做出让步的只有买房者。”
His office has begun to track the number of offers clients make before landing a property. The current record: 27 offers, nearly all at or above asking price.
他的公司开始追踪客户在买到一处房产之前的报价次数。目前的纪录是：27次，几乎每次报价都与要价持平，或高于要价。