From the early 1990s to the mid-2010s — almost a quarter-century of fundamental changes for Madison Avenue, and for those who have covered the advertising industry.
从20世纪90年代初到21世纪10年代中期，四分之一个世纪以来，麦迪逊大街，乃至广告界的从业者们发生了许多根本性的变化。
There are profound differences from the past; clearly, the astonishing shift from analog to digital ranks as the most disruptive.
现在和过去相比有了许多深层次的区别，显然，从模拟到数码的惊人变化带来了最多混乱。
At the same time, there are a rash of similarities that could comfort a time traveler from the days when Mitsubishi was introducing the Diamante to affluent auto buyers; or the idea of populating commercials with hip “dudes” to reach teenage consumers was fresh enough to warrant a feature.
与此同时，假如一位时间旅行者从三菱向富有的消费者推销Diamante汽车的时代穿越而来，众多对此案例的效仿一定会令他大为满意；此外，把时髦的“公子哥儿”形象植入广告，推向青少年消费者，这种观念在当时显得如此新鲜，至今仍然显得很有特色。
Take, for instance, the headline on an article that was posted Tuesday on Adweek.com: “Droga5 Wins Hotly Contested Sausage Pitch.” The concept of reading about account changes on a website rather than in print might puzzle that visitor from the past, as would, in all likelihood, the reference to Droga5, an agency that was not opened until 2006.
举例来说，星期二Adweek.coms网站上一篇文章的标题是：“Droga5在争夺索萨奇的激烈竞争中获胜”。在网站上读到客户变更的消息，而不是在印刷品上读到，这很可能会令过去时代的读者困惑不已，标题中提到的Draga5广告代理公司是2006年才开张的，它的名字也可能令过去的人感到困惑。
Yet as 2015 approaches agencies are still fighting each other fiercely for business — in this instance, Johnsonville Sausage — just as they did almost 25 years ago. And there are still publications covering those scrums, even if the one named Adweek no longer provides a weekly print edition.
在2015年即将到来之际，广告公司们仍在为争取业务而激烈竞争——比如说上文提到的约翰森威尔·索萨奇(Johnsonville Sausage)之争——这和过去的近25年无甚区别。如今仍然有一些出版物在报道这些混战，尽管Adweek已经不再提供每周的纸质版读物。
As transformative as recent changes have been for the advertising business — Joe Mandese, editor in chief of MediaPost, describes them as part of “an industrial revolution”— are they more wrenching than the disruption caused by the rapid rise of television as an ad medium in the 1950s? Or by cable television when it crashed the broadcasters’ party in the 1980s? Perhaps.
广告业最近的变化非常具有变革意义——MediaPost的编辑乔伊·曼迪斯(Joe Mandese)说他们是“一场工业革命”的一部分——与此同时，这些变革是否比20世纪50年代电视迅速成为广告主要媒介期间的变革更加彻底？和20世纪80年代，有线台击溃无线台派对那段时间相比又怎样？或许还是如今的变革更彻底吧。
On the other hand, ad spending is now near or at historic peaks — fueled, to be sure, by growing budgets for digital media — and the industry has demonstrated a remarkable ability to adapt to change and accept (or co-opt) many of the change agents.
另一方面，受到数码媒体预算不断增长的影响，在广告上投入的费用如今也已经接近或是达到历史高峰，这个行业显示出非凡的适应变化能力，以及接纳大量变化的媒介的能力（或与之合作的能力）。
“When people say our industry is dead, we are always able to reinvent ourselves,” said Stephen Martincic, executive vice president for global branding and corporate affairs at the agency FCB.
“每当人们说我们的行业已经死去的时候，我们总是能脱胎换骨，”FCB广告公司的全球品牌与公司事务执行副总裁斯蒂芬·马丁西克(Stephen Martincic)说。
After all, how many major agencies were forced to close during the financial crisis? How many global agency holding groups went bankrupt during the Great Recession? No-spoiler alert: none and none. Compare that enviable track record with how much the automotive, financial and retail industries suffered during those years.
毕竟，有多少大型广告公司在金融危机中被迫关闭呢？有多少全球广告控股集团在大衰退中破产呢？这不算什么剧透：根本就没有。把这个令人羡慕的纪录同近年来水深火热的汽车业、金融业和零售业对比看看吧。
On the occasion of my last advertising column for The New York Times, and with a hat tip to Chris Rock, here, in my opinion, are the Top 5 most significant differences between advertising then and now.
在我最后一次在《纽约时报》发表广告专栏之际——向克里斯·罗克(Chris Rock)致意——特此列出我心目中广告业近年来最重大的五个变化。
THE RISE OF DIVERSITY MARKETING As America has come to resemble the “gorgeous mosaic” of David N. Dinkins, advertisers responded — slowly at first, certainly — with inclusive, multicultural campaigns. The results of the 2010 census, which showed the Spanish-speaking population becoming a national presence, produced a boom in Hispanic marketing.
多样化市场的崛起：美国已经变得好像大卫·N·迪金斯(David N. Dinkins)口中的“辉煌的马赛克”，广告业也开始对此作出回应（当然一开始有点缓慢），带来包罗万象，多元文化的宣传活动。2010年的人口普查显示，说西班牙语的人口遍布全国，造成针对西班牙语的市场活动出现飙升。
And as same-sex marriage becomes more prevalent and accepted, Madison Avenue is running ads with gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender consumers in mainstream media, not only in media aimed at this market. This year alone, brands climbing aboard the rainbow bandwagon included Beats Music, Brita, Cheerios, Chevrolet, Coca-Cola, Heineken Light, Honey Maid, Intel, Johnson & Johnson, Mr. Clean, Revlon, Starbucks, Taco Bell and Tide.
此外，随着同性婚姻日益普遍、为人们所接受，麦迪逊大道开始推出含有男女同性恋、双性恋和跨性别消费者元素的广告，不仅投放到专门针对这一市场的媒体，也开始投放到主流媒体。仅在今年，赶上这股彩虹大潮的就有Beats音乐、Brita、Cheerios、雪佛兰、可口可乐、喜力淡啤、Honey Maid、英特尔、强生、朗白先生、露华浓、星巴克、塔可钟和汰渍等公司。
TV OR NOT TV? Who could or would have thought in the early ’90s that 20-odd years later the hegemony of television, for decades the most powerful ad medium, would be under siege or, at least, in question. Ratings data, the currency of television, is growing problematic because viewership is more difficult to measure when people use mobile devices instead of TV sets; or watch shows online, as streaming video or as video-on-demand. And it is easier than ever for viewers to ignore or avoid traditional commercials; popular streaming services like Netflix are (gasp!) ad-free.
上不上电视？20世纪90年代初有谁会想到，电视作为最有势力的广告媒体的霸权地位在二十年后将会受到冲击，或者至少也是受到质疑？如今，电视界内的通货——收视统计数据——已经愈来愈成问题了，因为人们目前都用移动设备取代电视机，或者通过流媒体和点播节目在线观看，观众情况变得更难统计。观众比以往任何时候都容易忽略或回避传统广告；Netflix等受欢迎的流媒体服务都是无广告的（天哪！）。
BACK TO THE FUTURE Doubts about the effectiveness of commercials are reviving the trappings of television from a bygone era when advertisers and agencies controlled the programming rather than the networks. Shows are now liberally peppered with brands, which are being integrated into story lines, while cast members interact with sponsors’ products and even occasionally pitch in to deliver the pitches.
回到未来：对广告效果的怀疑令过去时代的电视花样有所抬头，当时的电视节目不是由电视台决定，而是由广告者和广告公司所控制。如今电视节目中故意植入品牌名字，把它们整合到故事之中，演员与赞助商的产品互动，有时甚至说出广告词。
ADS AS ‘CONTENT’ The interweaving of ad matter into editorial content has accelerated, spawning an industry within an industry that describes itself with terms like content marketing, branded content, sponsored content and native advertising. Whatever the phrasing, the practice represents a bold attempt to further blur the line between editorial material and paid peddling. Are consumers who are now willing to opt in for ads they deem entertaining or informative — witness the billions of “likes” for brand fan pages on Facebook and other social media platforms — going to take that in stride, or will the worth of editorial content be diminished, threatening its value?
软文趋势：广告内容无缝接入编辑内容的趋势在加速，在一个行业内部催生出另一个将自己命名为“内容广告”、“品牌内容”、“赞助内容”或“叙事广告”之类的行业。不管怎么称呼，这种行为代表了一种大胆的尝试，进一步模糊了编辑内容与付费宣传之间的界限。消费者如今乐于接受有娱乐性或提供信息的广告——看看品牌在Facebook或其他社交媒体上得到的数以亿计的“赞”吧——他们会从容接受这种新趋势吗？编辑内容的价值是否将会变小，从而威胁到它自身的重要性呢？