We in the United States grow up celebrating ourselves as the world’s most powerful nation, the world’s richest nation, the world’s most blessed nation.
我们这些美国人从小就自夸我们是世上最强大的国家，最富有的国家，最幸福的国家。
Sure, technically Norwegians may be wealthier per capita, and the Japanese may live longer, but the world watches the N.B.A., melts at Katy Perry, trembles at our aircraft carriers, and blames the C.I.A. for everything. We’re No. 1!
严格来讲，挪威人均财富比我们多，日本人寿命比我们长，这没错，但全世界都在看NBA，为凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)所倾倒，在我们的航空母舰之前颤栗，把一切罪责推给中情局(CIA)。我们是第一！
In some ways we indisputably are, but a major new ranking of livability in 132 countries puts the United States in a sobering 16th place. We underperform because our economic and military strengths don’t translate into well-being for the average citizen.
在某些方面，我们的确是无可非议的第一，但在一项新近得出的132个国家宜居程度的重要排名中，美国第16位的排名是发人深省的。如此平庸的表现是因为，我们没能把经济和军事优势转化为普通国民的福祉。
In the Social Progress Index, the United States excels in access to advanced education but ranks 70th in health, 69th in ecosystem sustainability, 39th in basic education, 34th in access to water and sanitation and 31st in personal safety. Even in access to cellphones and the Internet, the United States ranks a disappointing 23rd, partly because one American in five lacks Internet access.
在社会进步指数（Social Progress Index，简称SPI）排名中，美国在获取高等教育方面表现优异，但医疗排第70，生态可持续性排第69，基础教育是第39，饮水和公共卫生获取是第34，个人安全是第31。甚至连获取手机和互联网方面，美国的排名都是令人失望的第23位，这跟五分之一的美国人缺乏互联网接入有一定关系。
“It’s astonishing that for a country that has Silicon Valley, lack of access to information is a red flag,” notes Michael Green, executive director of the Social Progress Imperative, which oversees the index. The United States has done better at investing in drones than in children, and cuts in social services could fray the social fabric further.
“一个拥有硅谷的国家，信息获取渠道匮乏方面却亮红灯了，真是不可思议，”本次排名的负责人、社会进步促进(Social Progress Imperative)组织执行董事迈克尔·格林(Michael Green)说。美国在对无人机的投资上的表现，要比对下一代的投资强，而对社会服务的削减可能会进一步加剧社会矛盾。
This Social Progress Index ranks New Zealand No. 1, followed by Switzerland, Iceland and the Netherlands. All are somewhat poorer than America per capita, yet they appear to do a better job of meeting the needs of their people.
在本次SPI排名中，新西兰名列第一，紧随其后的是瑞士、冰岛和荷兰。在某种程度上，它们的人均财富都少于美国，但似乎更擅长满足其国民所需。
The Social Progress Index is a brainchild of Michael E. Porter, the eminent Harvard business professor who earlier helped develop the Global Competitiveness Report. Porter is a Republican whose work, until now, has focused on economic metrics.
SPI为哈佛大学(Harvard)知名商学教授迈克尔·E·波特(Michael E. Porter)的发明，此前他还参与了“全球竞争力报告”(Global Competitiveness Report)的编撰。波特是一名共和党人，目前为止他的研究方向一直是经济计量。
“This is kind of a journey for me,” Porter told me. He said that he became increasingly aware that social factors support economic growth: tax policy and regulations affect economic prospects, but so do schooling, health and a society’s inclusiveness.
“对我来说这就像一段旅程，”波特对我说。他说他越来越意识到，社会因素对经济增长的支撑：税收政策和法规会影响经济前景，但教育、医疗和社会包容度一样可以。
So Porter and a team of experts spent two years developing this index, based on a vast amount of data reflecting suicide, property rights, school attendance, attitudes toward immigrants and minorities, opportunity for women, religious freedom, nutrition, electrification and much more.
因此波特和一个专家团队用了两年时间来编制这个指数，它是以巨量的数据作为基础的，反映了自杀、物权、学生出勤率、对移民和少数族裔的态度、女性的机会、宗教自由、营养水平、电气化等等方面。
Many who back proposed Republican cuts in Medicaid, food stamps and public services believe that such trims would boost America’s competitiveness. Looking at this report, it seems that the opposite is true.
很多支持共和党削减联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)、食品券和公共服务的提案的人相信，这样的削减有助于提升美国的竞争力。从这份报告上看，情况似乎恰恰相反。
Ireland, from which so many people fled in the 19th century to find opportunity in the United States, now ranks 15th. That’s a notch ahead of the United States, and Ireland is also ahead of America in the category of “opportunity.”
爱尔兰人在19世纪纷纷逃往美国寻找机会，如今这个国家排在第15位，比美国的排名要高一位。此外爱尔兰还在“机会”这一门类中领先美国。
Canada came in seventh, the best among the nations in the G-7. Germany is 12th, Britain 13th and Japan 14th.
加拿大排在第七，是G7国家中排在最靠前的，此外德国在第12，英国在第13，日本第14。
The bottom spot on the ranking was filled by Chad. Just above it were Central African Republic, Burundi, Guinea, Sudan and Angola.
倒数第一给了乍得。再往上是中非共和国、布隆迪、几内亚、苏丹和安哥拉。
In contrast, some countries punch well above their weight. Costa Rica performs better than much richer countries, and so do the Philippines, Estonia and Jamaica. In Africa, Malawi, Ghana and Liberia shine. Bangladesh (no. 99) ranks ahead of wealthier India (no. 102). Likewise, Ukraine (no. 62) outperforms Russia (no. 80).
相比之下，有些国家却得到了超出自身实力的成绩。哥斯达黎加的表现，比一些富裕得多的国家要好，菲律宾、爱沙尼亚和牙买加也是。在非洲，马拉维、加纳和利比里亚最抢眼。孟加拉国（第99）比更富有的印度（第102）靠前。同样地，乌克兰（第62）比俄罗斯（第80）强。
All this goes to what kind of a nation we want to be, and whether we put too much faith in G.D.P. as a metric.
一切都取决于我们想成为一个什么样的国家，我们是不是对GDP这个衡量指标给予了过分的信赖。
Over all, the United States’ economy outperformed France’s between 1975 and 2006. But 99 percent of the French population actually enjoyed more gains in that period than 99 percent of the American population. Exclude the top 1 percent, and the average French citizen did better than the average American. This lack of shared prosperity and opportunity has stunted our social progress.
总体来看，从1975年到2006年，美国经济的表现要优于法国。但在那段时间里，法国99%的人口分享到的增长，其实要多于美国99%的人口。除去顶部的1%，法国国民平均下来日子要比美国人过得好。这种繁荣和机遇分享上的欠缺，遏制了我们的社会进步。
There are no quick fixes, but basic education and health care are obvious places to begin, especially in the first few years of life, when returns are the highest.
解决这个问题非一夕之功，但基础教育和医疗保障显然可以作为入手点，尤其是针对生命的最初几年，那段时间得到的回报是最丰厚的。
The arguments for boosting opportunity or social services usually revolve around social justice and fairness. The Social Progress Index offers a reminder that what’s at stake is also the health of our society — and our competitiveness around the globe.
就增加机遇或提升社会服务进行的讨论，通常围绕着社会正义和公平展开。社会进步指数提醒我们，这些议题同样事关这个社会的健康——还有我们在全球的竞争力。