Two stories appeared on the website of The New York Times within hours of each other early this month. One reported that the drugstore giant CVS had stopped selling tobacco products in its 7,700 stores. The other announced: “Gay Groups to March in St. Patrick’s Day Parade as a Ban Falls.” These two developments had nothing obvious in common beyond their newsworthiness. And yet to anyone who has spent the past couple of decades living on planet Earth, the two stories conveyed the same powerful message: Look how times have changed. What was scarcely imaginable not too many years ago has come to pass.
本月初，两则报道一前一后出现在《纽约时报》的网站上，相隔不过数小时。其中一则称，药店巨头CVS旗下的7700家门店已停止售卖烟草制品。另一则的标题是《禁令解除，同性恋群体将参加圣帕特里克节游行》。除了都具有新闻价值之外，这两件事并没有其他明显的共同之处。然而，对于那些过去20年间生活在世上的人而言，它们都传达了同样强大的讯息：看看时代在如何变迁。就在距今不算遥远的那些年里还无法想象的一些事情，现在已经成为了现实。
I don’t have much to say about the CVS tobacco ban beyond the obvious — that this decision, announced last winter, was clearly carefully considered and deemed beneficial to the company’s bottom line. It’s taken a generation, to be sure, but now mass-market capitalism has embraced opposition to smoking as a winning strategy. Amazing.
对于CVS的烟草禁令，我没有太多的话要说，情况显而易见——CVS去年冬天宣布了这个决定，显然事前进行了慎重考虑，觉得此举有利于公司盈利。当然，这一转变花了二三十年的时间才实现，但大众市场资本界现在居然接受了“反对吸烟是一个致胜策略”的理念。太神奇了。
Certainly, gay men and lesbians have always been a quiet part of the throng marching up Fifth Avenue in New York’s St. Patrick’s Day parade. But next year, they will be able to march under their own identifying banner, with the approval not only of the parade’s private organizers but of its grand marshal, Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, who called the decision “a wise one.”
当然，当纽约举行圣帕特里克节游行时，在第五大道上走过的大批人群中，一直存在沉默的男女同性恋者。但明年，他们就可以打着亮明自己身份的旗帜游行了。同意此事的不仅有纽约游行的私人组织者，还包括游行典礼官、枢机主教提摩太·M·多兰(Timothy M. Dolan)。他称这个决定“很明智”。
Boston, home of perhaps the most iconic St. Patrick’s Day parade of all, hasn’t come around yet. It will be 20 years since the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that the South Boston Allied War Veterans Council, the Boston parade’s organizer, had a First Amendment right to exclude people seeking to march under a banner proclaiming their identity as gay, lesbian, and bisexual Irish-Americans.
在所有地方的圣帕特里克节游行中，波士顿举办的也许最具标志性。该市目前还没有做出类似决定。20年前，联邦最高法院一致裁定，根据宪法第一修正案，波士顿游行的组织方南波士顿退伍军人联合会(South Boston Allied War Veterans Council)有权将一部分人排除在外——如果他们要求在一面表明自己同性恋或双性恋爱尔兰裔美国人身份的旗帜下游行。
That decision, Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Group of Boston, wasn’t anti-gay. Rather, the court viewed a parade as an expressive activity — Justice David H. Souter’s opinion described a parade organizer as “rather like a composer” who decides what to include in the composition — that can’t be required by the government to include an undesired message. But while the Boston parade organizers stand on their First Amendment rights, which of course is their privilege, they must know that the world is changing around them.
这一判例，即“赫利诉波士顿爱尔兰裔同性恋和双性恋团体案(Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual Group of Boston)”，并不是在反同，而是法院认为，游行是一种表达性的活动——大法官戴维·H·苏特(David H. Souter)在裁决书中说，游行组织者“就像作曲家”，可以决定包含或者不包含哪些元素——因而政府不能强行要求组织者添加他们不想要的内容。波士顿游行组织者坚持行使第一修正案赋予他们的权利，这当然是他们的特权。尽管如此，他们也必须了解，周围的世界正在改变。
When it comes to gay rights, it’s not as if we need proof of how things have changed in the past 20 years. But anyone looking for proof might put two documents side by side. Both are by the same author, the always interesting, often provocative federal appeals court judge, Richard A. Posner. One, from the mid-1990s, is a review of a book advocating legal acceptance of same-sex marriage by William N. Eskridge Jr., then a law professor at Georgetown University, now at Yale.
在同性恋权益方面，其实我们并不需要证据来表明过去20年间已经发生了哪些变化。但任何想找证据的人，都可以对照看看两份资料。撰写它们的是同一个人：总是很有趣、但又经常引发争议的联邦上诉法院法官理查德·A·波斯纳(Richard A. Posner)。一份资料是书评，写于90年代中期，评价了小威廉·N·埃斯科利奇(William N. Eskridge Jr.)撰写的一本主张法律承认同性婚姻的书。埃斯科利奇当时是乔治城大学(Georgetown University)的法学教授，如今在耶鲁任教。
The argument in the book, “The Case for Same-Sex Marriage,” was “a powerful one,” Judge Posner wrote, “and it would not trouble me if a state were persuaded by it and adopted such a law.” But a judicial declaration to a right to same-sex marriage, he continued, “would be an unprecedented example of judicial immodesty.” The public would view such a decision as the imposition of “a radical social policy that is deeply offensive to the vast majority,” Judge Posner went on, adding that “judges must accord considerable respect to the deeply held views of the democratic majority.”
这本书名为《为同性婚姻一辩》(The Case for Same-Sex Marriage)。它做出了“有力”的论述，波斯纳法官写道，“如果某个州被它说服，并通过了这样的法律，我不会感到烦恼”，但法律承认同性婚姻权利的话，“将是一个前所未有的司法不当的例子”。公众会把这样的决定视为强制推行“一个激进的、深深冒犯了绝大多数人的社会政策”，波斯纳法官还说。“对于在民主状态下多数人持有的根深蒂固的看法，法官必须给予足够多的尊重。”
The second document is from two weeks ago. Writing for a unanimous three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, Judge Posner held that the refusal by Indiana and Wisconsin to recognize same-sex marriages violated the 14th Amendment guarantee of equal protection.
第二份资料是波斯纳法官在两周前，为联邦第七巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit)三人合议庭所写。文中认为，印第安纳州和威斯康星州拒绝承认同性婚姻的做法，违反了宪法第十四修正案在平等保护方面的规定。
In a 40-page opinion in Baskin v. Bogan, issued nine days after the argument, Judge Posner said the states had failed to offer even “plausible” justifications for their prohibitions. He shredded the states’ arguments in pithy, sometimes hilarious terms. To the states’ “argument from tradition,” he observed that traditions are not invariably or reliably good. They can sometimes be bad (“cannibalism, foot-binding, and suttee”) or sometimes neither good nor bad (“trick-or-treating on Halloween.”) “Tradition per se therefore cannot be a lawful ground for discrimination.”
这份40页的裁决意见书在“巴斯金诉博根案”(Baskin v. Bogan)审理九天后发出。波斯纳法官在文中写道，这两个州的政府未能为各自的禁令提供哪怕“貌似合理”的理由。他以精辟又时而滑稽的表述彻底推翻了这些州的论据，指出它们“把传统当作理由”，但传统并不见得总是很好。有些传统很糟糕（“食人、缠足和寡妇殉夫”），有些传统不好也不坏（“万圣节不给糖就捣乱”）。“因此，传统本身并不能成为歧视的合法理由。”
And to the argument that courts should defer to the democratic process (Indiana’s ban was by statute, and Wisconsin’s by constitutional referendum), Judge Posner had this to say: “Minorities trampled on by the democratic process have recourse to the courts; the recourse is called constitutional law.”
对于法院应该服从民主程序（印第安纳州的禁令由成文法支持，威斯康星州的禁令由宪法公投支持）的说法，波斯纳法官是这样说的：“被民主程序践踏的少数派可以向法庭求助；其依据就是宪法。”
I first learned about Judge Posner’s book review from references to it in Indiana’s petition seeking Supreme Court review of the decision. Book reviews aren’t typically invoked for legal argument in Supreme Court briefs, and by citing twice to this one, Indiana is none too subtly suggesting that the author of the decision is a hypocrite.
从印第安纳州提请最高法院复议该裁决的上诉书中，我第一次了解到波斯纳法官的那篇书评。书评通常不会被当做法律依据而出现在最高法院的案情摘要中，而印第安纳州两度援引这篇书评，则是在不那么隐晦地暗示，写下那份裁决意见书的法官是个伪君子。
But a fair reading of the book review, side by side with the opinion, suggests nothing of the kind. In the opinion (joined by Judges Ann Claire Williams and David F. Hamilton), Judge Posner is explicit about how much has changed, both in legal doctrine and in life outside the courts. In 1972, in Baker v. Nelson, the Supreme Court summarily dismissed a case claiming a right to same-sex marriage without even deeming the issue worthy of argument; opponents of same-sex marriage often cite this case as having settled the question. Judge Posner refused to consider his court bound by Baker v. Nelson, which he described as dating from “42 years ago and the dark ages so far as litigation over discrimination against homosexuals is concerned.”
不过，仔细阅读该书评，并比照那份意见书，会发现事实并非如此。在与安·克莱尔·威廉斯(Ann Claire Williams)和戴维·F·汉密尔顿(David F. Hamilton)两名法官共同出具的意见书中，波斯纳明确写出，不管是司法理论，还是法庭外的生活，都已经发生了重大的变化。1972年，在“贝克尔诉纳尔逊案”(Baker v. Nelson)中，最高法院即刻驳回了一起主张同性婚姻权利的案件，甚至都不认为这个问题值得争论。同性婚姻的反对者经常宣称该案已经一锤定音地解决了同性婚姻问题。波斯纳拒绝接受自己所在的法院应受制于该案。他表示，此案可以追溯到“42年前，就对同性恋者遭受的歧视提起诉讼而言，那是个黑暗时代”。
Modern Supreme Court opinions are what bind the courts today, he said, citing the 2003 decision, Lawrence v. Texas, which decriminalized consensual gay sex as a matter of constitutional due process. Judge Posner quoted, perhaps a bit mischievously, from the dissenting opinion in Lawrence in which Justice Antonin Scalia warned that the “principle and logic” of the decision would lead to a constitutional right to same-sex marriage.
他说现在，约束各法院的是当代最高法院的意见，并提到了2003年“劳伦斯诉德克萨斯州案”(Lawrence v. Texas)的裁例。该案裁决，自愿的同性性行为符合宪法，从而使其非罪化。波斯纳或许有些调皮地引用了该案反对意见中的部分内容，其中，大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)警告，该判决的“原则和逻辑”会导致同性婚姻成为一项宪法权利。
When Judge Posner wrote his book review, Bowers v. Hardwick, the 1986 decision that Lawrence v. Texas repudiated, was still on the books. Just over one-quarter of the public told the Gallup Poll that same-sex marriage should be legal. According to Gallup, public support broke the 50 percent level two years ago and is now at 55 percent (a population-wide figure; support is much higher among young people.) When Judge Posner wrote the review, no state recognized same-sex marriage; now there are 21 that do (11 by legislative action and the others by judicial decision.)
当波斯纳法官在撰写自己的书评时，1986年“鲍尔斯诉哈德威克案”(Bowers v. Hardwick)的判决还具有法律效力（后来由“劳伦斯诉德克萨斯州案”推翻）。当时，只有略多于四分之一的民众对盖洛普民意调查(Gallup Poll)表示，认为同性婚姻理应合法。盖洛普的调查显示，持支持态度的民众在两年前突破了一半的水平，现在为55%（这是全体受访者的数据，年轻人当中的支持者比例更高）。波斯纳撰写书评时，还没有哪个州承认同性婚姻；而现在，已有21个州认可同性婚姻（其中11个州是通过立法行动，而其余的州则是通过司法判决）。
Judges who ruled for same-sex marriage in the mid-1990s, and there were a handful, might well have felt they were jumping off a cliff into unknown waters. Now, any judge confronting a same-sex marriage claim enters into a rich multiparty conversation that includes not only numerous state and federal colleagues but actual evidence of what has — or has not — happened when gay couples exercise their right to marry. The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court went first, interpreting its state constitution in November 2003 to provide a right to same-sex marriage. Judge Posner alluded to the Massachusetts experience in the portion of his opinion that rejected Wisconsin’s argument that courts should be wary of “transforming this cornerstone of civilization and society” — namely, heterosexual marriage. “Has heterosexual marriage in Massachusetts been ‘transformed’?” Judge Posner asked in his opinion, and then gave the answer: “Wisconsin’s lawyer didn’t suggest it has been.”
20世纪90年代中期，有少数法官做出了支持同性婚姻的裁决，他们当时很可能觉得自己像是从悬崖上纵身一跃，进入了未知的水域。如今，面临同性婚姻问题的所有法官都会表示，自己加入了一场牵扯多方的丰富对话，其中涉及了州司法系统和联邦司法系统的同事；此外也有了事实依据，来表明同性伴侣在行使结婚权时会发生什么、不会发生什么。马萨诸塞州最高法院(Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court)率先行动，在2003年11月对该州的宪法做出了解释，从而向民众赋予了同性婚姻的权利。波斯纳在自己那一部分意见书中，反驳了威斯康星州认为法院应当谨慎对待“改变文明和社会的这个基石”——即异性婚姻——的论述。他间接地提到了马萨诸塞州的经验。波斯纳在自己撰写的那一部分意见书中问道，“马萨诸塞州的异性婚姻被‘改变了吗’？”然后他又给出了答案：“威斯康星州的律师没有说被改变了。”
It seems odd to say this, because Richard Posner is no Everyman, but there is a sense in which, in his journey from “no” (in his 1992 book “Sex and Reason,”) to “maybe but not yet” to “yes and now,” he is a stand-in for many of us. Twenty years ago, even many well intentioned straight people found same-sex marriage a challenging concept to grasp, if they thought about it at all. Today, it would take an act of will to ignore the fact that as barriers fall, the sum total of human happiness increases and any theoretical downside remains — as the states have found — impossible to articulate convincingly. In an interview published this summer in the American Bar Association’s ABA Journal, Judge Posner mentioned and implicitly disavowed his earlier position on same-sex marriage. “My views have changed about a lot of things,” he said. “You don’t want a judge who takes a position and feels committed to it because he thinks it’s terrible to change one’s mind.”
这么说似乎有些奇怪，因为理查德·波斯纳不是普通人。但在他从1992年的著作《性与理智》(Sex and Reason)中的“不行”，到“或许可以，但还不是时候”，再到“现在就可以”的转变中，感觉他似乎可以代表我们许多人。20年前，许多动机良好的异性恋者即便曾经考虑过同性婚姻这个问题，也会觉得这个概念难以理解。如今，需要拿出一些决心才能忽略以下事实：随着各种障碍的消除，人类幸福的总量提升了，而且正如各州所发现的那样，至今仍然无法令人信服地阐述任何理论上的负面影响。在美国律师协会(American Bar Association)的《ABA期刊》(ABA Journal)今年夏天刊登的一篇采访文章中，波斯纳谈到并含蓄地否定了自己早前对同性婚姻的态度。“我对很多事情的看法都变了，”他说。“你们也不想要一个表明了立场，却认为改变想法是很糟糕的事情，于是就一直固执己见的法官。”
The Supreme Court’s rules give the losing side in a lower court 90 days to file its Supreme Court appeal. Indiana and Wisconsin filed their appeals last week, a mere five days after the Seventh Circuit ruled. That same day, the lawyers representing the successful plaintiffs filed their responses to the states’ petitions. Instead of opposing Supreme Court review, they urged the justices to grant the petitions. “This case is an excellent vehicle for resolving the constitutional questions raised here,” lawyers for the Indiana plaintiffs told the court.
按照最高法院的规定，在下级法院败诉的一方可在90天内向最高法院上诉。上周，在美国联邦第七巡回上诉法院作出判决仅五天后，印第安纳州和威斯康星州便提起了上诉。同一天，胜诉原告的代理律师也就两州的上诉书提交了回应。他们没有反对最高法院复审，而是鼓励法官受理申诉。“本案是解决这里出现的宪法问题的好机会，”印第安纳州的原告代理律师对法庭表示。
Lawyers for the Wisconsin couples called the case an “ideal vehicle.” A case that would ordinarily have taken until early next year to reach the justices is ready for their consideration now.
威斯康星州同性伴侣的代理律师称该案是一个“理想的机会”。通常，本案可能要等到明年年初，才能到大法官手里。但现在，这起案件已经可以交给他们审理了。
State officials from Utah, Oklahoma and Virginia, where federal appeals courts have also struck down same-sex marriage bans, filed Supreme Court appeals during the summer recess. Each case differs in its emphasis and constitutional analysis. (I have cheated Judge Posner by quoting only some of his better zingers; his opinion contains a lengthy and serious discussion of the benefits that same-sex marriage holds for children now living in families headed by gay couples, as well as children who might be adopted or born into such families in the future. We know from Justice Anthony M. Kennedy’s majority opinion last year in United States v. Windsor, the decision requiring the federal government to recognize same-sex marriages legally performed in the states, that this aspect of the issue matters a great deal to him — and Justice Kennedy’s vote is crucial to the ultimate outcome.)
在夏季休庭期间，犹他州、俄克拉荷马州和弗吉尼亚州的州政府官员也向最高法院提起了上诉，因为联邦上诉法院也否决了这些州的同性婚姻禁令。每个案件强调的重点和宪法分析各有不同。（我没能忠实转述波斯纳法官的观点，只是引用了他较为精华的反驳意见。实际上，他在意见书中用很长篇幅，严肃地讨论了同性婚姻对于生活在同性伴侣为户主的家庭，以及将来可能会被这类家庭收养，或在这类家庭出生的孩子的益处。去年，大法官安东尼·M·肯尼迪[Anthony M. Kennedy]在“美利坚合众国诉温莎案”[United States v. Windsor]中出具的多数意见，要求联邦政府承认各州合法缔结的同性婚姻。我们从中知道，这个议题中的这个层面对肯尼迪来说很重要。而肯尼迪大法官的投票也对最终结果至关重要。）