Dell Williams, who in 1974, after being humiliated by a department-store clerk when she tried to buy a vibrator, was moved to start Eve’s Garden, the New York boutique widely described as the nation’s first sex shop catering specifically to women, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92.
戴尔·威廉姆斯(Dell Williams)1974购买振动棒时曾遭百货店员羞辱，之后在纽约开了“夏娃花园”(Eve’s Garden)精品店，它被公认为美国第一家专为女性服务的性用品商店。她于周三在曼哈顿寓所逝世，享年92岁。
Her death was confirmed by a friend, Mary Elizabeth Greene-Cohen.
友人玛丽·伊丽莎白·格林恩-科恩(Mary Elizabeth Greene-Cohen)确认了她的死亡。
A former actress, advertising executive and Army Wac, Ms. Williams was for four decades a nationally known advocate of women’s liberation, sexuality and sexual health — a stance founded on the premise, as she often put it, that “women have a right to sexual expression.”
威廉姆斯曾当过演员和广告公司主管，亦曾加入陆军妇女军团(Army Wac)，40年来，一直因宣传妇女的解放、女性性欲与性健康而家喻户晓，她经常说，自己这一立场的前提是“女人有性表达的权利”。
She was consulted frequently by the news media on subjects including Valentine’s Day (“Using sex toys is fun, sensual and can bring a couple closer”); vibrators (“Even if it collects dust in your drawer, I say hold on to it”); and the furor around Britney Spears’s 2003 song “Touch of My Hand,” which celebrates female masturbation.
媒体经常就各种话题向她征求意见，比如关于情人节，她说：“伴侣使用性玩具可以很有趣、很性感，也可以让二人关系更亲密”；关于振动棒，她说：“就算只是放在抽屉里落灰，我也建议你拥有一个”；2003年，小甜甜布兰妮(Britney Spears)2003年的歌《手的触感》(Touch of My Hand)引发了轩然大波，人们认为这是公然歌唱女性自慰的，对此，威廉姆斯也有话说。
“In the past 50 years or so, even as the medicinal and moral fears of masturbation have ebbed, the stigma still remains — and that’s what is shameful,” Ms. Williams said at the time. “Hopefully, Britney’s honesty and her song can help women overcome feelings of embarrassment and instead embrace something so natural.”
“在过去的50余年里，对自慰的医学与道德恐惧在减退，但它仍然保持着污名——这真是太遗憾了，”威廉姆斯当时说，“希望布兰妮的诚实与她的歌曲可以帮助女人们克服尴尬，接受这种非常自然的东西。”
When Ms. Williams founded Eve’s Garden at her kitchen table, discussions of female sexuality in general, and female orgasm in particular, had long been taboo. What sex shops there were — mostly seamy red-light-district affairs — were owned by, and catered to, men.
威廉姆斯在自家厨房桌边创立“夏娃花园”之时，关于女性性欲，特别是女性高潮，都是由来已久的禁忌话题。性用品商店（大都开在堕落的红灯区）由男人经营，为男性服务。
Today, thanks partly to Ms. Williams’s work, the women’s sex-product industry is a multimillion-dollar concern nationwide.
如今，部分是由于威廉姆斯的努力，女性性用品行业遍及全国，是资产达到成千上百万美元的大产业。
Begun as a mail-order business, Eve’s Garden has for decades operated a discreet brick-and-mortar store from an upper floor of a Manhattan office building at 119 West 57th Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues. For the timid or the out-of-town, the shop still sells by mail order and, in recent years, via a website, evesgarden.com.
“夏娃花园”从邮购商品起步，几十年来一直小心翼翼地在曼哈顿一家办公楼二层的实体店经营，它位于西57街119号，在第六与第七大道之间。由于它不在城内，作风低调，至今仍然提供邮购服务，近年来可以通过evesgarden.com网购。
Among its offerings are: myriad vibrators, including the Rabbit, a model made famous by an episode of the TV show “Sex and the City” in which Charlotte, played by Kristin Davis, becomes inseparable from one; mint-, cola- and banana-flavored condoms; and a welter of “Fifty Shades of Grey”-licensed products, including the Submit to Me Beginners Bondage Kit, at $60, slashed down from $70.
它的商品当中包括各种各样的按摩棒，当然，其中也有“兔子”，这种型号是因为电视剧《欲望都市》(Sex and the City)出名的，在剧中某一集里，克里斯汀·戴维斯(Kristin Davis)饰演的夏洛特简直离不开它；此外还有薄荷味、可乐味和香蕉味的保险套；各种《五十度灰》(Fifty Shades of Grey)的冠名产品，包括束缚入门套装，原价70美元，现价60美元。
The shop also sells books, including Ms. Williams’s memoir, “Revolution in the Garden” (2005), written with Lynn Vannucci. The book chronicles her theatrical training with the Method actor Paul Mann, her life in the Communist Party and the feminist movement, her Army career and, in her words, “how a nice Jewish girl from the Bronx ended up owning a sex toy store.”
商店也卖书，其中就有威廉姆斯的回忆录《花园中的革命》(Revolution in the Garden,2005)。该书与林恩·范努西(Lynn Vannucci)合著，按年代记述了她的经历：师从方法派表演大师保罗·曼恩(Paul Mann)学习戏剧表演、加入共产党、参与女性主义运动、入伍服役，以及她所谓的“一个来自布朗克斯的漂亮犹太女孩最后怎么会开了一家性用品商店”。
The daughter of Isaac Zetlin and the former Sarah Bronstein, Dell Zetlin was born in Manhattan on Aug. 5, 1922, and reared in the Bronx. Her given name, according to family legend, was in honor of the socialist journalist Floyd Dell, a staunch champion of the birth-control advocate Margaret Sanger. The surname Williams, which she adopted in adulthood, appears to be a variant of the surname of a man to whom she was briefly married.
她原名戴尔·泽特林(Dell Zetlin)，父亲是艾萨克·泽特林(Issaac Zetlin)，母亲原名莎拉·布朗斯坦(Sarah Bronstein)，她于1922年8月5日出生于曼哈顿，在布朗克斯长大。根据家里人流传的说法，她起这个名字是为了纪念信仰社会主义的记者弗洛伊德·戴尔(Floyd Dell)，他是计划生育主张者玛格丽特·桑格(Margaret Sanger)的忠实同盟。“威廉姆斯”这个姓氏是她成年后才有的，来自一个她曾短暂与之结婚的男人姓氏的变体。
When she was an older teenager, Ms. Williams’s memoir recounts, she was raped by a date. Later, after a brief wartime romance, she became pregnant and underwent a painful, terrifying illegal abortion.
威廉姆斯在自传中写道，十八九岁的时候，她在约会时遭到强暴。后来一段短暂的战时恋爱令她怀孕，她经历了痛苦、恐怖的非法堕胎。
In 1945, Ms. Williams enlisted in the Women’s Army Corps. As an entertainment specialist at an Army hospital in Tuscaloosa, Ala., she produced and performed on a daily radio show broadcast to patients, and later toured military bases in a WAC musical. After her Army service, she was involved in theater in Los Angeles before returning to New York, where she pursued a career in advertising.
1945年，威廉姆斯加入了陆军妇女军团，在阿拉巴马州塔斯卡卢萨的陆军医院里担任娱乐专家，每日为病人制作并播报一个广播节目，后来又参演了陆军妇女军团的音乐剧，在军事基地之间巡回演出。退伍之后，她进入洛杉矶戏剧界，之后回到纽约从事广告业。
Eve’s Garden was born of an epiphany, if not quite a miracle, on 34th Street. In the early ’70s, Ms. Williams took a workshop from the sex educator Betty Dodson, an advocate of women’s masturbation. So that women might experiment in private, Ms. Dodson recommended the Hitachi Magic Wand, a cylindrical vibrator nominally sold for aching muscles.
“夏娃花园”的诞生始于34街，就算不是一个奇迹，也是出自一种顿悟。70年代初，威廉姆斯参加了性教育学家贝蒂·多德森(Betty Dodson)主持的研讨会，多德森提倡女性自慰，女人可以在私下里体验这种行为。她向学员们推荐“日立魔棒”，这是一种圆柱形的按摩器，一般是用来按摩疼痛的肌肉。
Off Ms. Williams went to Macy’s to buy a Magic Wand. There, she wrote afterward, she found herself face to face with a “pimply 20-something” male sales clerk.
会后，威廉姆斯去了玛西百货店购买“魔棒”。事后，她写道，她发现自己面对的是一个“20多岁、满脸粉刺”的男售货员。
“What do you want it for?” he asked in a carrying voice.
“你买这个干什么？”他大声问。
“I left Macy’s that day,” she wrote, “clutching my precious, anonymous brown shopping bag and thinking: Someone really ought to open up a store where a woman can buy one of these things without some kid asking her what she’s going to do with it.”
“那天我紧紧抓着珍贵的、外表看上去平平无奇的棕色购物袋离开了玛西百货店，心里想着：一定得有人开一家店，让女人可以买到这些东西，不会有这种孩子来盘问她买这个干什么，”她写道。
Ms. Williams’s marriage to Ted Willms was annulled. No immediate family members survive.
威廉姆斯与泰德·威尔姆斯(Ted Willms)的婚姻破裂，她没有在世的直系亲属。
Her other work includes helping to organize a 1973 conference on women’s sexuality in New York that drew more than a thousand women and nearly 100 men and attracted coverage in the news media. She was featured prominently in “Passion & Power: The Technology of Orgasm,” a recent documentary film about the history of the vibrator.
她的其他工作包括1973年在纽约组织了一场关于女性性欲的大会，吸引了1000多名女性与将近100名男性参加，新闻媒体纷纷对之进行报道。她还醒目地出现在近期的纪录片《激情与权力：关于高潮的科技》(Passion & Power: The Technology of Orgasm)之中，影片是关于振动器的历史的。