RIO DE JANEIRO — The U.S. swimmers who claimed that they were assaulted at gunpoint over the weekend by assailants posing as police officers fabricated their account of the episode, Brazilian law enforcement officials said Thursday, illuminating many aspects of an incident that has spiraled into a thorny legal case testing the relations between Brazil and the United States.
里约热内卢——巴西执法官员周四表示，声称自己在上周末被假扮为警察的袭击者持枪抢劫的几名美国游泳运动员编造了有关该事件的说法。此事迅速演变成棘手的法律案件，对巴西与美国之间的关系提出了考验，而执法官员的表态解释了其中的许多方面。
Police said that they believed that U.S. swimmer Ryan Lochte had “stained” Rio by lying about what happened, but they acknowledged that a security guard had brandished a gun after one or more of the swimmers vandalized a gas station bathroom.
警方表示，他们认为美国游泳运动员瑞安·罗切特(Ryan Lochte)在描述事情经过时撒了谎，由此“玷污了”里约的形象。但他们承认，的确有一名保安在至少一名游泳运动员蓄意破坏加油站洗手间之后拔出了手枪。
Fernando Veloso, the Civil Police chief, said at a news conference that “there was no robbery in the way it was reported by the athletes,” and “they were not the victim of the criminal act they described.”
里约警察局局长费尔南多·韦洛苏(Fernando Veloso)在新闻发布会上表示，“并没有发生几名运动员报告的那种抢劫事件”，而且“他们也不是自己口中的犯罪行为的受害者”。
Lochte originally claimed that men posing as police officers had pulled over their taxi and that an assailant had put a cocked gun to his forehead before taking his money. He later altered his account, saying the taxi stopped at a gas station so they could use the bathroom.
罗切特最初称，有几名假扮为警察的男子拦下了他们乘坐的出租车，一名袭击者拿上了膛的手枪对准他的前额，然后抢走了他身上的钱。后来他改变了说法，称出租车是停在一座加油站，因为他们要在那里上洗手间。
“We saw our city stained by a fantastical version,” Veloso said.
“我们看到自己城市的形象被一种荒唐的说法玷污，”韦洛苏说。
After watching video and hearing testimony from witnesses, Brazilian police said they determined the incident involved damage to a bathroom at a gas station where the swimmers stopped in the early hours Sunday on the way back to the athletes’ village from a party.
在观看了监控视频并听取了目击者的证词之后，巴西警方表示，他们确定这起事件与加油站内的洗手间遭到破坏有关。周日清晨，在参加完派对返回奥运村的路上，这几名游泳运动员曾把车停在那里。
The police said the taxi carrying the swimmers stopped at a Shell gas station about 6 a.m., shortly after the men exited a party in the upscale Lagoa district.
警方表示，在大约凌晨6点的时候，他们乘坐的出租车停在了一座壳牌加油站，那时他们刚刚从在高端社区拉戈阿举行的派对上离开不久。
At the gas station, in Barra da Tijuca, the swimmers went to the bathroom. In the process, according to the account by investigators, damage was done to the bathroom door and a discussion ensued with the manager and a security guard.
在位于巴拉达蒂茹卡的这座加油站，他们去了趟洗手间。调查人员透露，在此期间，洗手间的门遭到了破坏，由此引发他们与加油站经理和保安的争执。
Someone at the gas station called police, but by the time a police car arrived at the scene the swimmers were gone. Witnesses, including a person who offered to translate for the swimmers, said they paid money to the manager before leaving.
加油站的某个人报了警，但是等警车到达现场时，几名游泳运动员已经离开。目击者称，他们在离开之前付给了加油站经理一些钱。目击者中包括一名自愿为他们充当翻译的人。
Judges ordered the swimmers to stay in the country, but Lochte had left Brazil and the U.S. Olympic Committee would not give up the athletes’ locations. Police pulled two of the swimmers off their plane Wednesday night.
法官要求这几名游泳运动员留在巴西，但罗切特之前已经离开。美国奥林匹克委员会不愿提供这些运动员的行踪。周三晚上，巴西警方拦下其中两名已登机的运动员。