In a historic transformation of the American military, Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter said on Thursday that the Pentagon will open all combat jobs to women.
在美军的一场历史性变革中，国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)周四表示，五角大楼将向女性放开所有战斗职位。
“There will be no exceptions,” Mr. Carter said at a news conference.
“不会有任何例外，”卡特在新闻发布会上说。
The groundbreaking decision overturns a 1994 Pentagon rule that restricts women from artillery, armor, infantry and other such combat roles, even though in reality women often found themselves in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan over the past 14 years.
这个开创性的决定推翻了五角大楼于1994年制定的一项规定：限制女性担任炮兵、装甲兵、步兵和其他类似战斗职位。但现实是，过去14年间伊拉克和阿富汗战场上经常有女性参加战斗。
The military faced a deadline set by the Obama administration three years ago to integrate women into all combat jobs by 2016 or ask for specific exemptions. The Navy and Air Force have already opened almost all combat positions to women, and the Army has also increasingly integrated its forces.
军方面临奥巴马政府三年前设定的最后期限，即在2016年前所有战斗职位都应接纳女性，否则就得申请特别豁免。海军和空军已经对女性放开了几乎所有的战斗职位，而陆军也日益在它的部队中推行混编。
The only exemptions were requested by the Marine Corps, which has a 93 percent male force dominated by infantry and a culture that still segregates recruits by gender for basic training. But Mr. Carter said he overruled the Marines because the military should operate under a common set of standards.
唯一申请豁免的是海军陆战队，其主战的步兵中93%为男性，而且仍然有按性别将新兵分开进行基础训练的传统。但卡特表示，他已否决了海军陆战队的申请，因为军方应遵循一套通用的标准。
Women have long chafed under the combat restrictions, and they have increasingly pressured the Pentagon to catch up with the reality on the battlefield. In the military, serving in combat positions like the infantry remains crucial to career advancement, and women have long said that by not recognizing their real service, the military has unfairly held them back.
女性早已对战斗限制恼火不已，她们也越来越多地迫使五角大楼尊重战场上的现实情况。军队中，在步兵之类的战斗岗位服役，对晋升仍然至关重要。而女性早就抱怨，通过否认她们的真实服役情况，军方不公平地妨碍了她们升职。
A major barrier fell this year when women were permitted to go through the grueling training that would allow them to qualify as Army Rangers, the service’s elite infantry.
今年，一个主要的障碍消失了，女性获准参加艰苦的训练，以便有资格进入陆军游骑兵——军中的精锐步兵部队。
Mr. Carter said that women would be allowed to serve in all military combat roles — from commanding tanks to dropping secretly behind enemy lines — by early next year. He characterized the historic shift as necessary to ensure that the United States military remained the world’s most powerful.
卡特称，到明年年初，女性将被允许担任一切军事战斗职位——从指挥坦克到秘密潜入敌后。他将这一历史性转变形容为确保美军始终是世界上最强大军队的必要措施。
“When I became secretary of defense, I made a commitment to building America’s force of the future,” Mr. Carter told reporters. “In the 21st century that requires drawing strength from the broadest possible pool of talent. This includes women.”
“成为国防部长时，我承诺要打造美国未来的军队，”卡特先生告诉记者。“在21世纪，这需要从尽可能广泛的人才群体中汲取力量。这其中就包括女性。”
Many women hailed the decision. “It’s a thrilling day for women serving in the military — and for women across the country,” said Nancy Duff Campbell, co-president of the National Women’s Law Center. “We applaud today’s announcement that knocks down the last remaining official barrier to women’s military service and ensures the full integration of women into all military jobs, positions and units.”
这一决定让许多女性欢呼雀跃。“对在军中服役的女性以及全美各地的女性来说，这都是令人兴奋的一天，”全国女性法律中心(National Women’s Law Center)联合主席南希·达夫·坎贝尔(Nancy Duff Campbell)说。“我们非常欢迎今天的公告，它消除了女性服兵役的最后的官方障碍，确保女性全面参与所有的军事工作、职位和部队。”
But the Republican chairmen of the Senate and House Armed Services Committee expressed caution and noted that by law Congress has 30 days to review the decision. “Secretary Carter’s decision to open all combat positions to women will have a consequential impact on our service members and our military’s war-fighting capabilities,” Senator John McCain of Arizona and Representative Mac Thornberry of Texas said in a statement. “The Senate and House Armed Services Committees intend to carefully and thoroughly review all relevant documentation related to today’s decision.’’
不过，参众两院军事委员会来自共和党的两位主席对此表示谨慎，并指出根据法律，国会有30天的时间来审核这一决定。“卡特部长向女性放开所有战斗职位的决定，将会深远地影响我们的军人和我们的军事作战能力，”来自亚利桑那州的联邦参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和来自德克萨斯州的联邦众议员马克·索里伯里(Mac Thornberry)在联合声明中表示。“参议院和众议院军事委员会将认真彻底地审核与今天的决定有关的所有文件。”
Mr. Carter acknowledged at the news conference that simply opening up combat roles to women was not going to lead to a fully integrated military. Senior defense officials and military officers would have to overcome the perception among many service members, men and women alike, that the change would reduce the effectiveness of the armed services.
在新闻发布会上，卡特承认，仅仅向女性放开战斗职位并不足以造就一支完全混编的军队。高级国防官员和军官必须克服许多军人——无论男女——都有的一种观念，即这种变化将降低军队的战斗力。
The defense secretary sought to assuage those concerns on Thursday by saying that every service member would have to meet the standards of the jobs they wished to fill, and that “there must be no quotas or perception thereof.”
周四的时候，卡特部长力图缓和这些担忧。他说每位军人都必须符合他们希望担任的职位的标准，而且“绝对不可以有配额或之类的想法。”
He also acknowledged that many units were likely to remain largely male, especially elite infantry troops and Special Operations forces, where “only small numbers of women could” likely meet the standards.
他也承认，许多部队的大部分人员很可能仍为男性，尤其是精锐步兵部队和特种作战部队，其中“只有少数的女性”有可能符合标准。
“Studies say there are physical differences,” Mr. Carter said, though he added that some women could meet the most demanding physical requirements, just as some men could not.
“研究表明，体能差异是存在的，”卡特说，尽管他也表示，一些女性能够满足最苛刻的体能要求，就像有些男性不能一样。
At the same time, military leaders are going to be required to assign jobs and tasks and determine who gets promoted based on “ability, not gender.”
同时，军方领导人也将需要分配工作和任务，并根据“能力而非性别”来决定谁将获得晋升。
Mr. Carter’s announcement came less than a month from the three-year deadline set by the Obama administration to integrate women into all combat jobs by 2016 or ask for specific exemptions.
卡特宣布此番公告时，距奥巴马政府设定的2016年前所有战斗职位都应接纳女性、否则就得申请特别豁免的三年期限还有不到一个月的时间。
In recent months, as the deadline approached, the Marines engaged in an unusually public campaign to keep women out of some jobs. The Marines in September released a $36 million study that study that found integrated combat units were slower, fired weapons with less accuracy and had more injuries.
最近几个月，随着最后期限的临近，海军陆战队发起了一场不寻常的公众宣传活动，目的是让女性不得担任某些职位。9月份，海军陆战队公布了一项耗资3600万美元完成的研究成果，得出的结论是，男女混合作战单位速度更慢、武器射击精度更低且伤亡更大。
The study took nine months to complete, and critics were quick to counter by saying that the force, which is dominated by infantry units, was simply looking for data to justify its desire to keep women in secondary roles.
此研究耗时九个月完成，而批评者很快就进行了反击，说这支由步兵为主的部队，不过是去故意寻找数据来满足自身将女性置于次要地位的愿望。
In contrast, a study of the Marine Corps made public by a women’s advocacy group this week found that after months of testing mixed-gender combat units, troops reported morale equal to that of all-male groups and higher than noncombat integrated groups.
相反，一家女性维权组织本周公布了针对海军陆战队所做的另一项研究。在对男女混合作战部队进行多个月的测试后，研究发现，此类部队的士气与全男性部队的士气不相上下，并且高于非战斗混合部队。
In addition, the study found sexual assault levels no higher than in the Marines as a whole.
此外，研究发现，性侵犯的水平也并不高于海军陆战队的整体水平。