The government is reopening, and we didn’t default on our debt. Happy days are here again, right?
政府重新开门了，我们没有债务违约。好日子又回来了，是不是？
Well, no. For one thing, Congress has only voted in a temporary fix, and we could find ourselves going through it all over again in a few months. You may say that Republicans would be crazy to provoke another confrontation. But they were crazy to provoke this one, so why assume that they’ve learned their lesson?
这个嘛，不是。一方面，国会只是通过了一个暂时的应急方案，几个月之后，我们可能发现自己又在重蹈覆辙。你可能说，共和党人要是再挑起矛盾，他们简直是疯了。但是他们已经疯狂地引发了这次的对抗，所以，你凭什么认为他们能得到教训？
Beyond that, however, it’s important to recognize that the economic damage from obstruction and extortion didn’t start when the G.O.P. shut down the government. On the contrary, it has been an ongoing process, dating back to the Republican takeover of the House in 2010. And the damage is large: Unemployment in America would be far lower than it is if the House majority hadn’t done so much to undermine recovery.
然而除此之外，我们要意识到，阻挠和勒索对经济造成的破坏并不是共和党使政府关门的时候才开始出现的。相反，这是一个一直在持续的过程，最早可以追溯到2010年共和党夺取众议院领导权的时候。破坏很严重：如果众议院多数党没有做这么多破坏经济复苏的事，美国的失业率会远低于目前的水平。
A useful starting point for assessing the damage done is a widely cited report by the consulting firm Macroeconomic Advisers, which estimated that “crisis driven” fiscal policy — which has been the norm since 2010 — has subtracted about 1 percent off the U.S. growth rate for the past three years. This implies cumulative economic losses — the value of goods and services that America could and should have produced, but didn’t — of around $700 billion. The firm also estimated that unemployment is 1.4 percentage points higher than it would have been in the absence of political confrontation, enough to imply that the unemployment rate right now would be below 6 percent instead of above 7.
要评估目前已经造成的破坏，可以从宏观经济咨询公司(Macroeconomic Advisers)的一份报告开始，这份报告已经被广泛援引，报告估计，“受到危机驱动”的财政政策——自从2010年开始就成为常态——过去三年已经让美国的经济增长损失了大约一个百分点。这意味着累计经济损失——美国能够，本来应该，但是没有生产的商品和服务的价值——为7000亿美元左右。公司还估计，如果没有发生政治上的乱局，失业率将会比目前低1.4个百分点，这充分证明，目前的失业率本应该低于6%，而不是高于7%。
You don’t have to take these estimates as gospel. In fact, I have doubts about the report’s attempt to assess the effects of policy uncertainty, which relies on research that hasn’t held up very well under scrutiny.
你不需要认为这些数字就是对的。事实上，我对该报告评估政策不确定性影响的做法有诸多怀疑，报告所依赖的研究结果在严格审视下并不能站得住脚。
Yet it would be a mistake to conclude that Macroeconomic Advisers overstated the case. The main driver of their estimates is the sharp fall since 2010 in discretionary spending as a share of G.D.P. — that is, in spending that, unlike spending on programs like Social Security and Medicare, must be approved by Congress each year. Since the biggest problem the U.S. economy faces is still inadequate overall demand, this fall in spending has depressed both growth and employment.
然而，如果认为宏观经济咨询公司夸大了实际情况，那就错了。它们评估结果的主要依据，是2010年以来自由开支在GDP中的比重的急剧下滑。这类支出与社会安全福利(Social Security)和联邦医疗保险(Medicare)等项目上的支出不同，每年必须由国会批准。既然美国经济面临的最大问题仍然是整体需求不足，支出的减少同时打击了增长和就业。
What’s more, the report doesn’t take into account the effect of other bad policies that are a more or less direct result of the Republican takeover in 2010. Two big bads stand out: letting payroll taxes rise, and sharply reducing aid to the unemployed even though there are still three times as many people looking for work as there are job openings. Both actions have reduced the purchasing power of American workers, weakening consumer demand and further reducing growth.
此外，报告没有考虑其他不良政策的影响，这些政策基本上是2010年共和党成为多数党的直接结果。最突出的两个糟糕政策就是，提高工资税和大幅降低对失业人员的救济，虽然找工作的人数仍然是工作岗位空缺数量的三倍。这两项政策都降低了美国劳动者的购买力，削弱了消费者需求，进一步拖累了增长。
Putting it all together, it’s a good guess that those estimates of damage from political hostage-taking understate the true harm done. Elections have consequences, and one consequence of Republican victories in the 2010 midterms has been a still-weak economy when we could and should have been well on the way to full recovery.
考虑到上述所有因素，可以说，这些评估政治勒索破坏性的数据低估了已经造成的危害。选举是有后果的，共和党在2010年的中期选举中获胜的一个后果就是，在我们能够而且本应该走向全面复苏的时候，经济仍然脆弱。
But why have Republican demands so consistently had a depressing effect on the economy?
但是为什么共和党的需求如此持续地产生了抑制经济增长的效果？
Part of the answer is that the party remains determined to wage top-down class warfare in an economy where such warfare is particularly destructive. Slashing benefits to the unemployed because you think they have it too easy is cruel even in normal times, but it has the side effect of destroying jobs when the economy is already depressed. Defending tax cuts for the wealthy while happily scrapping tax cuts for ordinary workers means redistributing money from people likely to spend it to people who are likely to sit on it.
一个原因是，共和党仍然决意发动自上而下的阶级战争，尽管在目前的经济形势下，这种战争格外具有破坏性。他们认为对方日子过得太舒服，就削减了对失业者的福利。但即便是在正常时期，这么做也是残忍的，更何况在经济业已低迷的时候，还会产生破坏就业的副作用。捍卫对富人减税的政策，同时愉快地取消对普通工人的减税措施，意味着把钱从可能花掉它们的人那里夺走，交到可能存下这笔钱的人手里。
We should also acknowledge the power of bad ideas. Back in 2011, triumphant Republicans eagerly adopted the concept, already popular in Europe, of “expansionary austerity” — the notion that cutting spending would actually boost the economy by increasing confidence. Experience since then has thoroughly refuted this concept: Across the advanced world, big spending cuts have been associated with deeper slumps. In fact, the International Monetary Fund eventually issued what amounted to a mea culpa, admitting that it greatly underestimated the harm that spending cuts inflict. As you may have noticed, however, today’s Republicans aren’t big on revising their views in the face of contrary evidence.
我们还应该看到坏点子的威力。2011年，胜利的共和党人迫不及待地采纳了一个在欧洲已经流行开来的概念——“扩张性紧缩”(expansionary austerity)———这个概念的意思是，削减支出实际上能通过增加信心来提振经济。此后发生的一切彻底否定了这个概念：在发达国家，大幅的支出削减已经被认为与衰退加深有关。事实上，国际货币基金组织(International Monetary Fund)最终发布了一个相当于检讨书的东西，承认自己严重低估了削减支出的危害。然而，你可能已经注意到，在相反的事实面前，今天的共和党人却没有积极地改变自己的看法。
Are all the economy’s problems the G.O.P.’s fault? Of course not. President Obama didn’t take a strong enough stand against spending cuts, and the Federal Reserve could have done more to support growth. But most of the blame for the wrong turn we took on economic policy, nonetheless, rests with the extremists and extortionists controlling the House.
所有的经济问题都是共和党的错吗？当然不是。奥巴马总统反对削减支出的立场不够坚定，美联储(Federal Reserve)本来也可以采取更多行动来支持经济增长。但是我们在经济政策上的错误转向仍要大部分归咎于控制着众议院的极端主义者和勒索者。
Things could have been even worse. This week, we managed to avoid driving off a cliff. But we’re still on the road to nowhere.
事情本可以变得更糟。本周，我们没有跌下悬崖。但我们仍然走在一条根本不通的路上。