As the new St. Joseph’s Hospital in Highland, Ill., prepared to open in August, its chief executive exulted, “You feel like you could be at the Marriott.”
位于伊利诺斯州海兰德新建成的圣约瑟夫医院(St. Joseph’s Hospital)准备在8月开张的时候，它的首席执行官自信地表示：“在这里，你将感觉像身处万豪酒店(Marriott)一般。”
In the $63 million community hospital, patients all enjoy private rooms, with couches, flat-screen TVs and views of nature. Its lobby features stone fireplaces and a waterfall.
在这座耗资6300万美元的社区医院中，所有病人都将拥有单人病房，配有沙发和平板电视，并可从窗外领略自然风光。医院的大厅则有石砌壁炉与瀑布景观。
Some hospitals in the United States, like Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles, have long been associated with deluxe accommodations, and others have always had suites for V.I.P.’s. But today even many smaller hospitals often offer general amenities, like room service and nail salons, more often associated with hotels than health care.
美国的有些医院，像洛杉矶的西达赛奈(Cedars-Sinai)医院，一直以来都提供豪华的住宿条件，还有一些医院为VIP病人提供套房。但如今连较小的医院也经常慷慨地提供更舒适的环境，比如客房服务以及美甲沙龙，感觉更像是宾馆而非医疗机构。
In the current boom of hospital construction, private rooms have become the norm. And some health economists worry that the luxury surroundings are adding unneeded costs to the nation’s $2.7 trillion health care bill.
如今繁荣发展的医院建造风潮中，单人病房已经成为了标准配置。有些医疗保健经济学家担忧这种奢华的环境会在全美国2.7万亿美元的医疗账单上再添加一笔不必要的开支。
There are some medical arguments for the trend — private rooms, for example, could lower infection rates and allow patients more rest as they heal. But the main reason for the largess is marketing.
对于这种倾向，有不少医学方面的辩解——比如说，单人病房有助于降低感染的概率，能够让病人在恢复期休息得更好。但是这种豪华风兴起主要的原因还是在于市场。
In a highly competitive field, patients — sometimes now referred to as “guests” — appreciate amenities. The tactic works. “We found that patient demand correlates much better to amenities than quality of care,” said Dr. John Romley, a research professor at the Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics of the University of Southern California, who has studied the trend. That means that hospitals can improve their bottom line and their reputation by focusing more on hospitality than health care — offering organic food by a celebrity chef rather than lowering medication errors, for example.
在这样一个竞争高度激烈的领域，病人——如今有时会被称为是“客人”——喜欢舒适的环境。这个战略奏效了。“我们发现，相比医护质量，病人的要求与居住环境条件更相关，”约翰·罗姆利(John Romley)博士说，这位南加州大学(University of Southern California)的莱纳德·谢弗医疗政策与经济中心(Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics)的研究教授在这方面有所探索。这意味着，医院可以通过把注意力放在提高住宿条件而非医护条件，来提高它们的净收益和声誉——比如说，提供由著名主厨烹制的有机食物，而不是降低医疗差错率。
As a result, American hospitals are looking less and less like their more utilitarian counterparts in Europe, where the average hospital charges per day are often less than a quarter of those in the United States, according to the International Federation of Health Plans.
因此，美国医院看上去越来越不像欧洲那些实用至上的医院了。根据国际医疗计划联合会(International Federation of Health Plans)所提供的数据，在欧洲，住院日均费用通常不到美国住院所需日均费用的四分之一。
The Henry Ford health system in Michigan caused a stir after it hired a hotel industry executive, Gerard van Grinsven of the Ritz-Carlton Group, in 2006 to run its new hospital, Henry Ford West Bloomfield. He had opened 20 hotels and his “focus on people and service excellence” has helped the hospital thrive in a competitive market, said Nancy M. Schlichting, Henry Ford’s chief executive, who decided to hire him. The idea was to take care of patients’ needs, she said, clinical and otherwise.
密歇根的亨利·福特卫生系统(Henry Ford Health System)在2006年掀起了一场风波，他们雇用了一位来自酒店业的高级管理人员——丽思卡尔顿集团(Ritz-Carlton Group)的杰拉德·范·格林斯文(Gerald van Grinsven)，来运营新落成的亨利·福特西布伦医院(Henry Ford West Bloomfield)。他之前开过20家酒店，而据决定聘请他的亨利·福特首席执行官南希·施利希廷(Nancy M. Schlichting)表示，他“在人本以及周到服务方面的关注视角”成功帮助该医院在竞争激烈的市场上蓬勃发展。她说，当初做这个决定，是旨在照顾病人们在医疗以及其他一些方面的需求。
While no one is getting nostalgic for traditional hospital food, open wards or revealing gowns, some worry that hospitals are going too far with the creature comforts. They are particularly concerned since most hospitals are nonprofit, so construction — directly or indirectly — is subsidized with public money.
没人会怀念传统的医院食物、开放式病房或者过于暴露的病人服装，不这有些人还是担心，医院在追求制造舒适环境这条路上走得过远了。他们特别关心此事，因为绝大多数医院都是非盈利的，所以医院的修建——直接或间接地——都是由公众资金来出资的。
With the prospect on the horizon of the Affordable Care Act’s lowering reimbursement, and interest rates rising, the hospital construction boom appears to be slowing. And, in choosing a hospital, patients should probably think beyond room service anyway. Many years ago, when I was a doctor-in-training, I was assigned to work on a hospital floor with V.I.P. rooms. Though the views were spectacular, the cardiac arrest team could not get there as quickly as it could to the regular wards. We called it “a hotel near a major teaching hospital.”
在合理医疗费用法案(Affordable Care Act)所带来的降低补偿费用的前景下，再加上利率的升高，医院的修建风潮看上去正放慢了步伐。而在选择医院的时候，病人毕竟也应该考虑那些比客房服务更重要的因素。许多年以前，当我是一个见习医生时，我被分配去VIP病房所在的那一层。虽然那里房间窗外的景色是最美的，但心脏停搏急救团队却无法像去其他病房一样迅速到达病房。我们管它叫作“大型教学医院旁边的宾馆”。