Determined to get rid of the hepatitis C infection that was slowly destroying his liver, Arthur Rubens tried one experimental treatment after another. None worked, and most brought side effects, like fever, insomnia, depression, anemia and a rash that “felt like your skin was on fire.”
丙肝在慢慢摧毁阿瑟·鲁宾斯(Arthur Rubens)的肝脏。决意摆脱这一疾病的他尝试了一种又一种试验疗法，但没一种起作用，而且大多数疗法还带来了副作用，比如发烧、失眠、抑郁、贫血和“让人感觉皮肤像火烧一样”的皮疹。
But this year, Dr. Rubens, a professor of management at Florida Gulf Coast University, entered a clinical trial testing a new pill against hepatitis C. Taking it was “a piece of cake.” And after three months of treatment, the virus was cleared from his body at last.
但今年，身为佛罗里达湾岸大学(Florida Gulf Coast University)管理学教授的鲁宾斯博士参加了一种新的抗丙肝片剂的临床试验。这种药的服用“十分简单”。在进行了三个月的治疗后，丙肝病毒终于被从他体内清除了出去。
“I had a birthday in September,” Dr. Rubens, 63, said. “I told my wife I don’t want anything. It would take away from the magnitude of this gift.”
“我9月份过生日，”63岁的鲁宾斯说，“当时我和妻子说，我什么都不想要。因为它会冲淡这份礼物的重要程度。”
Medicine may be on the brink of an enormous public health achievement: turning the tide against hepatitis C, a silent plague that kills more Americans annually than AIDS and is the leading cause of liver transplants. If the effort succeeds, it will be an unusual conquest of a viral epidemic without using a vaccine.
医学领域可能即将取得一项巨大的公共卫生成就：逆转丙肝病毒的发展。丙肝是一种隐匿性的疾病，每年因丙肝去世的美国人人数超过艾滋病。丙肝也是导致肝脏移植的主要原因。如果这种新的治疗方案取得成功，就能做到在未注射疫苗的情况下也能治愈病毒性传染病，这将是一项非同寻常的成就。
“There is no doubt we are on the verge of wiping out hepatitis C,” said Dr. Mitchell L. Shiffman, the director of the Bon Secours Liver Institute of Virginia and a consultant to many drug companies.
“毫无疑问，我们就快能彻底消灭丙肝了，”弗吉尼亚邦塞科尔肝病研究所(Bon Secours Liver Institute of Virginia)主任、多家制药公司的顾问米切尔·L·希夫曼(Mitchell L. Shiffman)博士说。
Over the next three years, starting within the next few weeks, new drugs are expected to come to market that will cure most patients with the virus, in some cases with a once-a-day pill taken for as little as eight weeks, and with only minimal side effects.
从接下来的几周开始的三年时间里，多种新药预计将进入市场。这些药将能治愈大多数携带丙肝病毒的病人，而且只会带来很小的副作用。对一些病人来说，只需服用一种片剂，每日一次，最短持续8周即可。
That would be a vast improvement over current therapies, which cure about 70 percent of newly treated patients but require six to 12 months of injections that can bring horrible side effects.
相较目前的诸多疗法，那将是巨大的进步，因为目前的疗法虽能治愈约70%初次接受治疗的患者，但患者需接受半年到一年的药物注射，而且还会出现严重的副作用。
The latest data on the experimental drugs is being presented at The Liver Meeting in Washington, which ends Tuesday.
这些试验药物的最新数据正在华盛顿举行的肝病大会(The Liver Meeting)上展示，大会将于周二闭幕。
But the new drugs are expected to cost from $60,000 to more than $100,000 for a course of treatment. Access could be a problem, particularly for the uninsured and in developing countries. Even if discounts or generic drugs are offered to poor countries, there are no international agencies or charities that buy hepatitis C medications, as there are for H.I.V. and malaria drugs.
但那些新药的费用预计会在每疗程6万美元（约合36万元人民币）到10万美元以上。能不能用得起可能是个问题，尤其是对那些没有医保和发展中国家的患者而言。即便向贫穷国家提供折扣或非专利药，也没有国际机构或慈善组织像购买抗艾滋病病毒药物、疟疾药物那样，购买抗丙肝药物。
And some critics worry that the bill will be run up when huge numbers of people who would have done fine without them turn to the drugs. That is because many people infected with hepatitis C never suffer serious liver problems.
一些批评人士担心，当大量不需服用那些药也能生活得很好的人转而服用它们时，价格会被推高。这是因为，许多感染了丙肝的人永远都不会遭遇严重的肝脏问题。
“The vast majority of patients who are infected with this virus never have any trouble,” said Dr. Ronald Koretz, emeritus professor of clinical medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles.
“绝大部分感染了这种病毒的患者永远不会出现任何问题，”加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)临床医学荣休教授罗纳德·科雷茨(Ronald Koretz)博士说。
It is impossible to tell in advance whether an infected individual will go on to suffer serious consequences. For patients who can afford them, the temptation to take the new drugs before trouble arises will be powerful.
但目前根本无法预先确定，感染了丙肝病毒的人将来会否面临严重后果。对用得起那些药的患者而言，在出现问题之前服用新药将具有很大的诱惑力。
A Heavy Toll 
高死亡率
An estimated three to four million Americans are infected with hepatitis C, and about 150 million worldwide — three to five times the number who have H.I.V. Most people who are infected do not know it, because it can take decades for the virus to damage the liver sufficiently to cause symptoms.
据估计，感染丙肝的美国人有300至400万，全世界的感染者人数约有1.5亿，是人类免疫缺陷病毒(HIV)感染者人数的三至五倍。大部分感染者并不知情，因为丙肝病毒可能要用几十年时间才能将肝脏摧毁到症状显现的程度。
In the United States, the number of new infections has fallen to about 17,000 a year, from more than 200,000 per year in the 1980s, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There has been a recent rise in cases among young people who inject pain medicines or heroin.
据美国疾病预防和控制中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）的数据统计，美国每年新感染丙肝病毒的人数已从20世纪80年代的20万跌至1.7万。但是在近年，注射止痛药物或海洛因的年轻人群中，感染人数有所增加。
About 16,600 Americans had hepatitis C listed as a cause of death on death certificates in 2010, though that might vastly understate the mortality linked to the disease, according to the C.D.C.  Although there are fewer new infections, the number of deaths is expected to keep rising as the infections incurred years ago increasingly take their toll.
CDC的研究发现，2010年，约有1.66万美国人的死亡证明上将丙肝列为死亡原因，但这一数字远低于与这种疾病相关的实际死亡人数。虽然新感染病例减少，但由于多年前感染的患者逐渐开始发病，死亡人数预计还将继续增加。
Hepatitis C is spread mainly by the sharing of needles, though it can also be acquired during sex. The virus was transmitted through blood transfusions before testing of donated blood began in 1992. Dr. Rubens, the recently cured patient, believes he was infected when he worked as a paramedic long ago.
丙肝的传播主要是共用针头引起的，但它也可以通过性传播。在1992年开始对献血者进行化验之前，这种病毒也通过输血传播。最近治愈的鲁宾斯博士相信，他是在很久以前做急救护理工作的时候感染上丙肝的。
The main treatment has been interferon alfa, given in weekly injections for 24 or 48 weeks, combined with daily tablets of ribavirin. Neither drug was developed specifically to treat hepatitis C. The combination cures about half the patients, but the side effects — flulike symptoms, anemia and depression — can be brutal.
一直以来，丙肝的主要治疗方法是持续24或48周，每周注射α干扰素(interferon alfa)，并配合每日服用病毒唑(ribavirin)。这两种药都不是专门治疗丙肝的。这种方案可以治愈大概一半的病人，但类流感综合症、贫血和抑郁症等副作用可能会很厉害。
The new drugs, by contrast, are specifically designed to inhibit the enzymes the hepatitis C virus uses to replicate, the same approach used to control H.I.V. As with H.I.V., two or more hepatitis C drugs will be used together to prevent the virus from developing resistance.
相比之下，新药是特别针对丙肝病毒用来分裂细胞的酶而设计的，抑制其发展，这和用来控制HIV的手法是一致的。和HIV的治疗方法一样，医生将同时使用两种或更多丙肝药物来阻止病毒形成抗药性。
To be sure, many of the new drug combinations have not been extensively tested yet. Side effects might still show up. And the drugs are not expected to work as well for patients with severe cirrhosis or those co-infected with H.I.V.
但实际上，许多新的药物组合还没有经过广泛验证，可能还是会出现副作用。而且预计新药对患有晚期肝硬化的患者以及同时感染了HIV的患者作用不大。
“I just don’t think we know the answer until we get more widespread clinical experience,” said Charles M. Rice, a hepatitis C expert at Rockefeller University. “We may be in for some surprises still.”
“我就是觉得，除非我们经过更广泛的临床验证，我们无法知道答案，”洛克菲勒大学(Rockefeller University)丙肝专家查尔斯·M·赖斯(Charles M. Rice)说道。“我们可能还是会遇到一些意想不到的情况。”
Awaiting Better Options
等待更好的选择
These new drugs are likely to alter the calculus about who gets treated and when.
这些新药很可能会改变谁用药、何时用药等考虑。
Many doctors are now “warehousing” their hepatitis C patients — urging them to forgo treatment until the new drugs are approved.
很多医生现在正在“囤积”他们的丙肝病人，要他们放弃治疗，等待新药通过审批。
“There’s no way I’m going to put them on an interferon regimen when we’re a year away from having interferon-free regimens,” said Dr. Scott Friedman, the chief of liver diseases at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. “It’s rare you have to pull the trigger and get them on treatment in that period of time.”
“当我们离非干扰素治疗方案获批仅一年之遥，我绝不会让他们开始做干扰素治疗，”西奈山医院伊坎医学院(Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai)肝病治疗主任斯科特·弗里德曼(Scott Friedman)博士说。“现在做决定让他们在这段时间里开始治疗，会很少见。”
The all-oral regimens also may make it more feasible to treat the people who are most likely to spread the virus — intravenous drug users, the homeless and prison inmates, many of whom also have mental health problems.
全口服的方案可能在治疗最易传播丙肝病毒的人群方面会更可行——静脉注射的吸毒者、无家可归者和囚犯，他们中的很多人也患有精神疾病。
“I can’t treat an unstable patient safely with interferon,” said Dr. Diana Sylvestre, who runs a clinic in Oakland, Calif. that treats illicit drug users and former users. “But I can sure as hell give them a few pills.”
“我没法用干扰素疗法安全地治疗一位精神状态不稳定的病人，”运营加利福尼亚州奥克兰一家诊所的黛安娜·西尔韦斯特(Diana Sylvestre)博士说。她的诊所治疗非法使用毒品和曾经吸毒的患者。“但我肯定能给他们几片药。”