THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The United States and its closest allies on Monday cast Russia out of the Group of 8 industrialized democracies, their most exclusive club, to punish President Vladimir V. Putin for his lightning annexation of Crimea, while threatening tougher sanctions if he escalates aggression against Ukraine.
荷兰海牙——周一，美国及其最亲密的盟友将俄罗斯踢出了由8个工业化民主国家组成的集团，以此惩罚俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)对克里米亚的闪电式吞并，同时威胁称，如果普京加紧侵略乌克兰，它们会采取更严厉的制裁。该集团是最为高端的工业化民主国家俱乐部。
President Obama and the leaders of Canada, Japan and Europe’s four strongest economies gathered for the first time since the Ukraine crisis erupted last month, using a closed two-hour meeting on the sidelines of a summit about nuclear security to project a united front against Moscow.
自乌克兰危机上月爆发以来，奥巴马和加拿大、日本及欧洲四大经济强国的领导人首次举行会晤，在一次核安全峰会期间举行了两个小时的闭门会议，希望打造一条对抗俄罗斯的统一战线。
But they stopped short, at least for now, of imposing sanctions against what a senior Obama administration official called vital sectors of the Russian economy: energy, banking and finance, engineering and the arms industry. Only further aggression by Mr. Putin — like rolling his forces into the Ukrainian mainland — would prompt that much-harsher punishment, the countries indicated in their joint statement, called the Hague Declaration.
不过，至少从目前来看，他们并未决定对俄罗斯的能源、银行与金融、工程和军工业实施制裁。奥巴马政府的一名高官称，这些是俄罗斯经济的关键部门。这些国家在名为《海牙宣言》(Hague Declaration)的联合声明中表示，只有在普京进一步发起侵略活动——比如将自己的军队开进乌克兰内陆——的情况下，它们才会实施这种远比目前严厉的惩罚。
“The biggest hammer that can drop is sectoral sanctions, and the clearest trigger for those is eastern and southern Ukraine,” the senior administration official said.
“最沉重的打击是行业性制裁，可能引发这种制裁的最明显导火索则位于乌克兰东部和南部，”奥巴马政府的这名高级官员说。
Some critics of the administration said the suspension of Russia from the G-8, which administration officials acknowledged was largely symbolic, showed a lack of resolve among the allies to take tougher steps to undo Mr. Putin’s annexation of Ukraine.
奥巴马政府的一些批评人士称，中止俄罗斯G8集团成员国身份的举动表明，美国及其盟友缺乏决心，不敢采取更严厉的举措来迫使俄罗斯放弃吞并乌克兰的举动。奥巴马政府的一些官员也承认，中止俄罗斯成员国身份的举措基本上只有象征意义。
But it signified a firming of Western resolve compared with the early days of the Crimea crisis, when Germany and some other allies said it was premature to consider excluding Russia from the club of industrial democracies. Having Russia as part of that group since 1998 was meant to signal cooperation between East and West, and its exclusion inevitably raises new echoes of Cold War-style rivalry.
不过，此举表明西方的决心比克里米亚危机早期有所加强，危机早期，德国和其他一些盟友曾表示，考虑将俄罗斯踢出该工业化民主国家俱乐部为时尚早。该集团于1998年接纳俄罗斯的举动本是为了象征东西方的合作，如今将其踢出集团，必将重新引发有关冷战式对抗的声音。
Announcing that they would boycott a Group of 8 meeting planned for Sochi — Mr. Putin’s Black Sea showcase for the recent Winter Olympics — the seven countries who met here said they would instead gather by themselves in June in Brussels, headquarters of NATO and the European Union.
在本地举行会晤的前述七个国家宣布，将抵制原定在索契——不久前，普京在位于黑海边的该地举办了冬奥会——举行的八国集团峰会，同时表示，他们将于6月在北约(NATO)和欧盟总部所在地布鲁塞尔另行举行会议。
“We will suspend our participation in the G-8 until Russia changes course,” the seven countries declared in what constituted a subtle appeal to Russian leaders outside Mr. Putin’s circle to press for a switch in direction.
“我们将暂停参与八国集团的活动，除非俄罗斯改弦更张，”前述七个国家宣布。他们的言论是一种含蓄的呼吁，希望普京圈子之外的俄罗斯领导人敦促普京改变方向。
After the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991, Russia eagerly sought to join the tight circle of the world’s top economies, eventually gaining entry in 1998. For all that Mr. Putin shrugged off the threat of canceling the Sochi summit this month — a shoulder shrug imitated here by his foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, on Monday — it is a blow to the Kremlin’s search for prestige.
1991年苏联解体后，俄罗斯迫切地希望加入由全世界最强经济体组成的这个紧密的小圈子，并最终在1998年如愿以偿。尽管普京本月对取消索契峰会的威胁不屑一顾——周一，普京的外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)也在这里表现出了类似的不屑态度——这对谋求声望的俄罗斯政府依然是个打击。
Mr. Putin took membership in the group so seriously that he went all out when it came time for Russia to host the annual meeting for the first time. He rebuilt a broken-down czarist-era palace outside his hometown, St. Petersburg, in part with the summit in mind, adding a series of new mansions to the grounds for each leader to stay in. The Kremlin hired a Western public relations agency to promote its status as host.
普京非常看重该集团的成员国身份，以至于在轮到俄罗斯首次举办该集团的年会时，他投入了全部的力气。他重建了家乡圣彼得堡城外一处沙皇时期的衰败宫殿，部分就是因为考虑到了即将举行的峰会。他还新修了一系列宅邸，供每位领导人居住。此外，俄罗斯雇用了西方的一家公关机构，以便宣传自己的东道主地位。
“Obviously, it’s mostly symbolic, but symbols do matter,” said Michael A. McFaul, the just-departed American ambassador to Moscow. “The G-8 was something they wanted to be part of. This for them was a symbol of being part of the big-boy club, the great power club — and the club of democracies, I might add.”
刚刚离任的美国驻俄罗斯大使迈克尔·A·麦克福尔(Michael A. McFaul)说，“显然，此举基本上只具有象征意义，不过，象征确实至关重要。俄罗斯想成为八国集团的一分子。对他们来说，这象征着他们加入了一个大人物俱乐部，一个大国俱乐部——也许我应该补充一句，这还是一个民主国家的俱乐部。”
The Obama administration voiced satisfaction that the West was united in punishing Russia, both now and in future, if it does not reverse course. “There really wasn’t much disagreement” at the meeting either about Russia or the need to swiftly aid Ukraine, the senior administration official said.
西方各国团结一致，准备在此刻和将来对俄罗斯实施惩罚，如果后者不改变路线的话。对于这种表现，奥巴马政府表示满意。前述奥巴马政府高官表示，在谈论俄罗斯的问题和迅速援助乌克兰的必要性时，与会各方“真的不存在太多歧见”。
Germany’s chancellor, Angela Merkel, who with her foreign minister has had the most contact with Mr. Putin and other Russian officials during this crisis, has been among the most forthright in rejecting Mr. Putin’s actions, despite the potential costs to Germany’s economy.
此次惩罚可能会让德国付出经济代价，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)却一直是最直率地反对普京的行动的西方领导人之一。在此次危机中，她和德国外长与普京及其他俄罗斯官员的接触最多。
German businesses sold almost 40 billion euros of goods to Russia last year, and bought Russian imports of the same value, almost exclusively oil and natural gas supplies that meet about one-third of Germany’s energy needs.
去年，德国商家对俄罗斯出口了将近400亿欧元的商品，德国从俄罗斯进口的商品总值也与此相差无几，进口商品几乎全都是石油和天然气，它们满足了德国约三分之一的能源需求。
But Ms. Merkel has strengthened Germany’s response over the past two weeks after she perceived Mr. Putin as violating promises by annexing Crimea and opting for old-fashioned nationalism and the use of military force over the talk of cooperation and respect for borders that have governed East-West relations in recent decades.
不过，最近两周，默克尔加大了德国的回应力度，因为她认定普京吞并克里米亚的行动违反了相关承诺，认定他选择了过时的民族主义道路，选择了武力，没有选择最近数十年里一直支配东西方关系的合作性谈话，以及尊重现有国界的立场。
The support of Germany, the largest economy in Europe and a longtime bellwether on Russian relations, is viewed as crucial to enforcing tougher sanctions if they become necessary down the road. The administration official said that any such sanctions would have “consequences for the global economy and individual countries.”
德国是欧洲最大的经济体，也是对俄关系的长期领导者，人们由此认为，如果更严厉的制裁势在必行，德国的支持可谓至关重要。奥巴马政府官员说，任何类似的制裁都会对“全球经济和单个国家造成影响”。
“The cost is far greater for the Russians, who stand much more to lose,” the official added.
这名官员说，“俄罗斯人付出的代价要大得多，他们将承担大得多的损失。”