Sheriff’s investigators are expected to offer evidence to prosecutors that could lead a manslaughter charge against Caitlyn Jenner for her role in a fatal car crash on the Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu, Calif., in February.
警长的调查人员将向检察官提供证据，这些证据可能会促使凯特琳·詹纳(Caitlyn Jenner)因今年2月在加州马利布太平洋海岸公路发生的致命车祸而遭到杀人指控。
A Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department spokeswoman, Nicole Nishida, said Thursday that investigators had found that Ms. Jenner was driving in a manner “unsafe for the prevailing road conditions” when her sport utility vehicle rear-ended a Lexus, pushing it into oncoming traffic.
洛杉矶县警察局发言人妮科尔·西田(Nicole Nishida)在周四表示，调查人员发现詹纳的运动型多用途车与一辆雷克萨斯追尾，将该汽车推向迎面而来的车辆时，其驾驶方式“以当时路况来说是不安全的”。
Ms. Nishida said the case would be presented for review next week. The district attorney will determine what charges Ms. Jenner ultimately faces.
西田表示，此案将于下周送交核审。地方检察官将决定詹纳最终面临什么指控。
Ms. Jenner was hauling an off-road vehicle on a trailer behind her Cadillac Escalade on Feb. 7 when she steered to avoid cars slowing for a traffic light in front of her on the Pacific Coast Highway in Malibu.
詹纳于2月7日驾驶一辆凯迪拉克凯雷德在马利布太平洋海岸公路上行驶，事故发生时，她试图转向以避开因红灯而减速的前车。当时她的车后面拉着一辆载有越野车的拖车。
The Lexus driver, Kim Howe, 69, was killed when her car was struck head-on by a Hummer.
雷克萨斯与一辆悍马正面相撞，导致69岁的司机基姆·霍韦(Kim Howe)死亡。
Ms. Jenner’s lawyer, Blair Berk, declined to comment.
詹纳的律师布莱尔·伯克(Blair Berk)拒绝置评。
The crash occurred months before Ms. Jenner’s gender transition. She was formerly known as Bruce Jenner, the 1976 Olympic decathlon champion and Kim Kardashian’s stepfather. Photographs from the scene of the crash, posted online, showed her wearing dark glasses and a baseball cap, surveying the wreckage and speaking with emergency responders.
撞车事故发生几个月后，詹纳进行了变性手术。她之前名为布鲁斯·詹纳(Bruce Jenner)，是1976年奥运会十项全能冠军，金·卡戴珊(Kim Kardashian)的继父。网上公布的事故现场照片显示，她戴着墨镜和棒球帽，检查汽车残骸，与急救人员交谈。
As Bruce Jenner, she was on the cover of Playgirl and was an author, an actor and, most recently, a part of the Kardashian family’s reality television empire.
名叫布鲁斯·詹纳的时候，她上过《花花女郎》杂志(Playgirl)的封面，当过作家、演员，最近又成了卡戴珊家族电视真人秀帝国的一份子。
In April, she spoke about her gender transition in a television special that drew nearly 17 million viewers.
她今年4月在电视节目上讲述了自己转变为女人的经历。那场特别报道吸引了将近1700万观众。
In early June, Ms. Jenner revealed her new identity on the cover of Vanity Fair and became a sensation on social media when the magazine posted the article online.
6月初，詹纳登上《名利场》杂志(Vanity Fair)封面，公布了自己的新身份，该杂志在网上发布这篇文章时，詹纳在社交媒体上引发了轰动。