WASHINGTON — The risk that President Obama may be forced to pull all American troops out of Afghanistan by the end of the year has set off concerns inside the American intelligence agencies that they could lose their air bases used for drone strikes against Al Qaeda in Pakistan and for responding to a nuclear crisis in the region.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统可能会被迫在今年年底前撤出所有驻扎在阿富汗的美军，这让美国情报机构内部开始担忧，它们可能失去用于开展无人机袭击的空军基地。情报机构需要利用这些基地，打击巴基斯坦的基地组织(Al Qaeda)，并准备应对该地区的核危机。
Until now, the debate here and in Kabul about the size and duration of an American-led allied force in Afghanistan after 2014 had focused on that country’s long-term security. But these new concerns also reflect how troop levels in Afghanistan directly affect long-term American security interests in neighboring Pakistan, according to administration, military and intelligence officials.
无论在华盛顿还是喀布尔，围绕2014年之后以美国为首的驻阿盟军的规模和驻扎期限，都产生了争论。到目前为止，这些争论主要涉及阿富汗的长期安全。但据奥巴马政府、军方及情报官员透露，这些新的忧虑也反映出，阿富汗驻军的规模直接影响美国在邻国巴基斯坦的安全利益。
The concern has become serious enough that the Obama administration has organized a team of intelligence, military and policy specialists to devise alternatives to mitigate the damage if a final security deal cannot be struck with the Afghan president, Hamid Karzai, who has declined to enact an agreement that American officials thought was completed last year.
由于这种担忧变得非常严重，奥巴马政府已经成立了一个由情报、军事和政策专家组成的小组来制定备选方案，以便在美国政府无法与阿富汗总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)达成最终的安全协议的情况下，减少造成的损失。卡尔扎伊拒绝实施一项美国官员以为去年就已敲定的协议。
If Mr. Obama ultimately withdrew all American troops from Afghanistan, the C.I.A.’s drone bases in the country would have to be closed, according to administration officials, because it could no longer be protected.
政府官员表示，如果奥巴马最终撤出所有驻阿美军，中央情报局(CIA)就需要关闭位于阿富汗的无人机基地，因为该基地不会再受到保护。
Their concern is that the nearest alternative bases are too far away for drones to reach the mountainous territory in Pakistan where the remnants of Al Qaeda’s central command are hiding. Those bases would also be too distant to monitor and respond as quickly if there was a crisis involving missing nuclear material or weapons from the arsenals and related facilities in Pakistan and India.
他们担心距离最近的备用基地也还是太远，无人机无法到达巴基斯坦的山区，也就是基地组织中央指挥部残余势力的藏身之处。如果巴基斯坦和印度的军火库及相关设施丢失核材料或武器，这些基地距离也太远，美方就无法进行监控，并快速做出反应。
The issue is coming to the fore after the Pentagon recently presented Mr. Obama with two options for the end of the year. One option calls for a presence through the end of Mr. Obama’s term of 10,000 American troops who could train Afghan troops, conduct counterterrorism raids and protect the American facilities, including those in eastern Afghanistan where drones and nuclear monitoring are based.
这些问题之所以浮出水面，是因为国防部近期为奥巴马今年年底的决策提供了两个选项。一个选项是，在奥巴马的任期结束前，留下1万名美军士兵驻守阿富汗，让他们训练阿富汗士兵，开展反恐行动，保护美国的设施，包括阿富汗东部那些停放无人机及核检测设备的基地。
Under the other, so-called zero option, no American troops would remain. The United States has said that if it is unable to reach a final security arrangement with Mr. Karzai, it is prepared, reluctantly, to pull out completely, as it did in Iraq in 2011.
另一个选项就是所谓的“零驻军”，美军全部撤离。美国曾表示，如果无法与卡尔扎伊达成最终的安全协议，美军将被迫全部撤离，就像2011年美军全部撤出伊拉克一样。
Mr. Obama has made “no decisions” on troop levels, said Caitlin M. Hayden, the spokeswoman for the National Security Council. “We will be weighing inputs from our military commanders, as well as the intelligence community, our diplomats and development experts, as we make decisions about our-post 2014 presence in Afghanistan,” she said.
国家安全委员会(National Security Council)女发言人凯特琳·M·海登(Caitlin M. Hayden)表示，在驻阿美军规模问题上，奥巴马“还没做出决定”。她说，“我们在就2014年后的驻阿美军问题作出决定时，会参考军方指挥官、情报机构、外交官和发展专家的意见。”
In his State of the Union address on Tuesday night, however, Mr. Obama is expected to say that by the end of this year the Afghan war will be over — at least for Americans — slightly more than 13 years after it began, making it the longest in American history.
奥巴马将于周二晚间发表国情咨文(State of the Union)演说，根据预期他将宣布阿富汗战争会在今年年底前结束，至少对于美国人来说，是一个结束。阿富汗战争已经开始13年，这是美国历史上持续时间最长的战争。
Even though the zero option has few supporters in the administration, the idea has gained renewed credence with each day that Mr. Karzai delays signing the security accord and poses new demands to the United States. “Karzai has believed for some time that he has this leverage — that we need him and his bases more than he needs us,” said Daniel Markey, a former Bush administration official and the author of “No Exit From Pakistan,” published last year.
尽管“零驻军”的选择在政府中受到的支持很少，但由于卡尔扎伊推迟签署安全协议，对美国提出新要求，这个设想再次显示出了合理性。前布什政府官员丹尼尔·马基(Daniel Markey)表示，“卡尔扎伊一段时间以来一直认为他手里有牌打，我们需要他、需要那些基地，多过他需要我们。”马基著有《离不开的巴基斯坦》(No Exit From Pakistan)一书，该书已于去年出版。
Secretary of State John Kerry is to meet Pakistan’s foreign and national security policy adviser, Sartaj Aziz, here on Monday, and counterterrorism operations are to be a major subject of discussion, a senior State Department official said Sunday. Talking with Pakistan about its nuclear program is especially delicate.
周日，国务院一名高级官员称，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)将于周一在华盛顿会见巴基斯坦国家安全与外交事务顾问萨尔塔杰·阿齐兹(Sartaj Aziz)，两人讨论的重点话题之一便是反恐，与巴基斯坦讨论其核计划需要尤为小心。
In recent years the country has accelerated its drive to build small tactical nuclear weapons — similar to what the United States placed in Europe during the Cold War — that could be used to repel an invasion from India. But those weapons are considered more vulnerable to theft or use by a rogue commander, and they are one reason that American intelligence agencies have invested so heavily in monitoring the Pakistani arsenal.
最近几年，巴基斯坦开始加快建造小型战术核武器，用以抵挡来自印度的进攻，这种武器与冷战期间美国放置在欧洲的核武器相似。但这些核武器很容易被盗，或被不听从管束的指挥官利用，它们也是美国投入如此多资源监控巴基斯坦武器库的一个原因。
A scare in 2009, when the United States feared that nuclear materials or a weapon was missing in Pakistan, led Mr. Obama to order the basing of a permanent monitoring and search capability in the region.
在2009年，美国怀疑巴基斯坦一些核材料或一件核武器失踪了，这给奥巴马敲响警报，他决定在该地区永久性地部署军事力量，执行监控和搜索任务。
But the complexities of bringing those capabilities to an end are forcing the intelligence agencies, which run the covert strikes into Pakistan and monitor nuclear events around the world, to scramble. Their base inside Pakistan was closed after a shooting involving a C.I.A. security contractor, Raymond Davis, and the raid into Pakistani territory that killed Osama bin Laden, both in 2011.
然而，全面撤军带来的复杂影响让在巴基斯坦开展无人机秘密打击任务、监控世界各地核动作的情报机构手忙脚乱。2011年发生了一起涉及中情局安全承包商雇员雷蒙德·戴维斯(Raymond Davis)的枪击事件，同年，美军在巴基斯坦领土发动突袭，击毙了奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)，之后，美国情报机构在巴基斯坦的基地被关闭。
Crucial to the surveillance of Bin Laden’s house in Abbottabad was the use of an RQ-170 drone. Pakistani officials talked openly in the weeks after that raid about their fear that the unmanned aircraft was also being used to monitor their nuclear arsenal, now believed to be the fastest growing in the world. The raid, and those drones, came out of American facilities just over the Afghan border.
RQ–170无人机在监控本·拉登位于阿伯塔巴德的住所时，发挥了至关重要的作用。在突袭后的几个星期内，巴基斯坦官员公开表达担心，称无人机可能也被用来监控他们的核武库，据信该国核武器增长速度现在是世界第一。那次突袭是由距离边界不远处的驻阿富汗美军发动的，当时使用的无人机也来自阿富汗的军事设施。
“You hear about the president’s decision of the ‘zero option’ in the context of the future of Afghanistan, but this is really more about Pakistan,” said one former senior intelligence official who has consulted with the Pentagon and intelligence agencies about the problem. “That’s where the biggest problem is.”
“总统决定在阿富汗实现‘零驻军’，涉及的似乎是阿富汗的未来。但实际上这更加关乎巴基斯坦，”一名曾为五角大楼和情报机构就该问题提供过建议的前高级情报官员表示。“那里才是最大的问题所在。”
The C.I.A.’s drone bases in Afghanistan allows operators to respond quickly to fresh intelligence. The proximity to Pakistan’s tribal areas also allows the Predator drones and their larger, faster cousin, the Reaper, to fly longer missions without having to return to base.
中情局驻阿富汗无人机基地可以让操作人员更迅速地针对新获情报采取行动。由于基地靠近巴基斯坦部落地区，“捕食者”(Predator)无人机，以及机型更大也更快的“死神”(Reaper)无人机能在不返回基地的情况下，完成更远距离的飞行任务。
The New York Times is withholding the location of the drone bases at the request of administration officials, who said identifying it would jeopardize the safety of Americans working there.
《纽约时报》应奥巴马政府官员的要求，不会公布无人机基地的位置。官员称，透露其位置将危及在那里工作的美国人的安全。
“There certainly is an interdependence between the military and the intelligence community in Afghanistan,” one senior administration official said.
一名政府高级官员称，“驻阿富汗的军队和情报机构之间，肯定有种相互依赖的关系。”
The Reapers, the newest, largest and most capable of the unmanned armed vehicles, have a range of up to 1,100 miles. That puts Pakistan’s tribal areas within range of some bases the American military has flown from, especially in Kyrgyzstan, where for more than a decade the Pentagon has conducted air operations, include cargo and troop flights, out of a base at Manas. But the United States said last fall that it would pull out of that base in July.
“死神”是携带武器的无人机中，最新、最大，威力也最强的一款，航程最远可达1100英里（约合1770公里）。这就使得巴基斯坦的部落地区，处在了美军曾使用过的一些军事基地的势力范围内，尤其是美国驻吉尔吉斯斯坦的基地。10多年来，五角大楼通过吉尔吉斯斯坦的玛纳斯空军基地，执行了很多飞行任务，包括运送物资和军事人员。但在去年秋天，美国表示将于今年7月从玛纳斯空军基地撤军。
Other allied countries are within the Reaper’s range — in the Persian Gulf, for example. But the distances would be too great to carry out drone operations effectively, officials said, and it is very unlikely that any of those nations would approve launching the diplomatically sensitive strikes missions from their soil.
美国的其他盟国也在“死神”的航程范围内，比如一些波斯湾国家。但官员表示，距离太远无法有效开展无人机任务，而且这些国家也不大可能同意从它们的领土上发起这种袭击行动，因为这种袭击会产生敏感的外交影响。
“There’s no easy alternative to Afghanistan,” one former senior American counterterrorism official said.
一名美国前反恐高级官员表示，“想找到代替阿富汗的选择并不容易。”