The kitchen of the Thomas house in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, exudes an air of cozy domesticity.
在布鲁克林(Brooklyn)的湾脊区(Bay Ridge)，托马斯(Thomas)家的厨房里满溢着家庭的温馨。
Khadija Benmakhlouf, wearing pink corduroys and a crimson shirt, is perched on a stool poring over her kindergarten math homework. Her grandmother, Tupper Thomas, who is curled up in a nearby armchair, offers encouraging shout-outs from the sidelines.
身穿深红色衬衫与粉红色灯芯绒裤子的卡蒂嘉·本马克洛夫(Khadija Benmakhlouf)，正趴在一张凳子上聚精会神地做幼儿园的数学作业。她的祖母，塔珀·托马斯(Tupper Thomas)蜷在不远处的一张扶手椅中，在一旁给她加油助威。
Around 5 o’clock, Khadija’s mother, Phaedra Thomas, bustles in from her job as a community development consultant in Red Hook with her son, Teddy, 3, whom she has picked up from day care. Within minutes the kitchen is flooded with an intoxicating aroma as lamb chops from the halal butcher down the street sizzle in the oven.
大约在5点钟，卡蒂嘉的母亲菲德拉·托马斯(Phaedra Thomas)在Red Hook公司做完社区发展顾问的工作，从托儿所接了3岁的儿子泰迪(Teddy)，匆匆赶回家里。几分钟后，从这条街的清真肉铺买来的羊排就开始在烤箱中嘶嘶作响，厨房里到处弥漫着诱人的香味。
The two women moved into the two-family house in February, dodging workers as their contractor, the M & H Art General Construction Corporation, transformed the century-old home into a dwelling suitable for a 21st-century family.
两个女人避开了那些建筑工人，于今年二月搬进了这栋两家共用式别墅。当时这些工人的雇主M&H艺术总建筑公司(M & H Art General Construction Corporation)正在把这栋百年老屋改造成一栋21世纪家庭的宜居住宅。
“I’m a big believer in this sort of arrangement, maybe because it never happened for me when I was a parent,” said Tupper Thomas, a longtime resident of Park Slope who retired three years ago from a three-decade career as the president of the Prospect Park Alliance. “I didn’t have that mom person around.”
“我是这种生活方式的坚定拥护者，或许因为在我当父母的那段时间，从来没有这样的机会，”塔珀·托马斯说，她是Park Slope小区的常住居民，三年前刚从当了三十年的展望公园联盟(Prospect Park Alliance)主席的位置上退休。“我从没有让妈妈什么的待在身边过。” 
With several generations in residence, the Thomas household represents a housing model that social scientists are paying a lot of attention to these days, one that grows out of a phenomenon that economists call “shrinking households” or “missing households.” The terms refer to an arrangement not uncommon today among some ethnic groups and viewed as an encouraging throwback to the way many families lived decades ago.
在几代同堂的居住模式下，托马斯一家代表了近来备受社会学家关注的一种居住模式。这种模式从一种被经济学家们称为“缩巢”或“空巢”的现象中衍生而来。这两条术语所代表的家庭组织方式，如今在某些族群中并不罕见，且被视为一种对许多家庭几十年前旧有模式令人鼓舞的回归。
The challenges of multigenerational families are considerable — witness the flood of recent books on how to navigate the situation — but the financial, practical and emotional benefits can be great.
几世同堂的家庭所要面对的挑战相当大——有近期洪水般涌现的、教人怎样处理这种情况的图书为证；但是它在经济、情感和实际生活方面的益处，也相当可观。
The impetus for the growing number of such households is the recession that started in late 2007, whose lingering effects persist. During tough economic times, economists say, fewer new households are created than would be expected, because people are more likely to double up than strike out on their own. Statistically, they go missing.
促使这类家庭数量不断增长的因素，是始于2007年年底的那场经济衰退，其后续影响一直存在。在经济困难时期，经济学家们说，新创建家庭的数量比预期少得多，因为人们在那种情况下更有可能挤住在一起，而不是靠自己奋斗。从统计学的角度看，他们都消失了。
Recent college graduates moving back home — so-called boomerang kids — are only part of the story. Whether prompted by a lost job, a house foreclosed or a sinking pension, grown children and their elderly parents are increasingly coming together under a single roof. Census figures show an uptick in the number of multigenerational families in New York.
近期搬回家住的大学毕业生被称作所谓的“归巢儿”，他们只是此现象中的一小部分。无论是因为失业、房屋止赎还是养老金下滑，越来越多的成年子女正与他们年迈的父母在同一屋檐下生活。人口普查数据显示，纽约市多代同堂家庭的数量在激增。
One measure of the increase is the number of households in which someone 60 or older is identified as the parent of the head of the household. In these families, the assumption is that elderly parents are living with their grown children.
针对这类增长的统计方法之一，就是考察有多少家庭中有60岁或更大年纪的老人，其身份被认定为“户主的父母”。在这类家庭中，一般认为那些年迈的父母们正与他们的成年子女一起生活。
Between the 2000 census and the 2009-2011 American Community Survey figures, the number of such households in New York increased by 5 percent. The increases are especially large in Staten Island (up 21 percent) and Queens (up 8 percent). Both boroughs have large numbers of two-family houses, often called mother-daughter homes, with an attached apartment on the side or in the basement.
从2000年的人口普查数据，到2009年至2011年美国社区调查数据，纽约市这类家庭的数量增长了5%，其中尤其显著的是史泰登岛(Staten Island)（21%以上）和皇后区(Queens)（8%以上）的增长。在这两个行政区内，都有大量的两家共用式别墅，通常被称为“母女住宅”(mother-daughter homes)，在主建筑的侧边或地下室里带有一套附属公寓。
And the New York numbers are reflected nationally. According to a 2011 report titled “Family Matters: Multigenerational Families in a Volatile Economy,” published by Generations United, an organization that supports this population, more than 51 million Americans — about one in six — lived in a multigenerational household. This number represents an increase of more than 10 percent since the recession began, the organization said.
而纽约市的这种情况在美国全国上下都有反映。根据2011年由一个支持该类人群的组织Generations United出版的一份名为《家庭问题：动荡经济环境下的几世同堂之家》(Family Matters: Multigenerational Families in a Volatile Economy)的报告，有超过510万的美国人（大约每6人当中就有1人）住在几代同堂的家庭里。这一数字表明，自经济开始步入萧条以来，这类家庭的数量增长已超过了10%，该组织说。
“Our report found that in 66 percent of the households, the current economic problems were the cause,” said Donna Butts, the executive director of Generations United. “But while many families came together because of the economy, they stayed together by choice. People expect stress from this arrangement, but they don’t expect the benefits. The downside is that our culture is so focused on independence that pushing against the culture is considered shameful. I tell them, wake up and smell the demographics.”
“我们的报告发现，在这类家庭中，有66%的合住原因在于目前的经济问题，”Generations United公司的执行总裁堂娜·巴茨(Donna Butts)说，“不过，虽然很多家庭是由于经济问题才合住的，他们这样做也是出于自愿的选择。人们预料到了这种安排所带来的压力，但他们没有预料到其中的好处。不利的一面是，我们的文化是如此大力提倡独立，以至于反其道而行之会被认为是可耻的。我告诉他们，醒醒吧，好好体会一下这份人口统计学的资料。”
The Thomas family is a classic example.
托马斯一家，就是个典型的例子。
At the time they decided to live under a single roof, Tupper Thomas, 69, was living in a condo on Eastern Parkway, and her daughter, 37 and recently divorced, was living in Bay Ridge. When the mother proposed that they take up joint residence in the neighborhood, her daughter’s reaction was instantaneous: “Oh, my God, that would be fabulous! Are you serious?”
他们决定要住在同一屋檐下时，69岁的塔珀·托马斯还在公园路东侧(Eastern Parkway)的一套共管公寓中生活，而她那位刚刚离了婚的37岁女儿住在湾脊区。当这位母亲提议她俩在这个社区中一起住的时候，女儿立刻做出了反应：“哦，天哪，那再好不过了！你说真的吗？”
Tupper had proposed the idea, in part, because she was an ardent fan of the support system a multigenerational family could provide. “As a girl growing up in Minnesota,” she said, “my grandmothers were part of the family. They were there when the kids came home from school.”
塔珀之所以提出这个想法，部分原因在于，对于几代同堂之家为家庭成员们提供的保障，她可是一名忠实粉丝。“作为一名在明尼苏达州(Minnesota)长大的女孩，”她说，“我的祖母们就是家庭的一部分。当孩子们放学回家时，她们总是等在家里。”
Their white house with red brick pillars, which cost $800,000, is, like its sisters on the block, a two-family structure. In warm weather the front porch is wreathed in purple wisteria.
她俩那栋80万美元（约合人民币484万元）、带有红砖柱子的白色别墅，正如同在那条街区上的另一栋姐妹楼一样，是一座两家共用式的建筑。气候温暖的时候，前门廊会被一片紫藤花围绕。
The first floor, with a separate door leading to Tupper’s quarters, is the heart of the house, with a spacious open kitchen where the family eats most meals, and a living room that faces the tree-lined street. The second and third floors, home to Phaedra and her children, include a playroom, the communal washer-dryer and Phaedra’s childhood bunk bed, dotted with her old glow-in-the-dark stickers.
一楼是这栋房屋的核心部分，有一扇独立的门通往塔珀的房间；还有一个宽敞的开放式厨房，全家人大部分时候都在那里吃饭；另外还有一间面对着林荫大道的客厅。二楼和三楼是菲德拉和孩子们的住处，包括一间游戏室、共用的洗衣烘干两用机，以及菲德拉童年用过的双层床，床边还星星点点地贴着她曾经的夜光贴纸。
The neighborhood is ideal. Phaedra’s former husband, Mohamed Benmakhlouf, with whom she shares custody of their children, is close by, as is his auto repair business, Carma Car Care.
这个社区十分理想。菲德拉的前夫、和她共同享有孩子们的监护权的穆罕默德·本马克洛夫(Mohamed Benmakhlouf)就住在附近，他的汽车修理店Carma Car Care也是。
The mother bought the house. The daughter, who works part time, pays a monthly rent of $1,500, a figure that includes her share of taxes and utilities. Household expenses are shared, and the daughter benefits from free child care. “And over time, she’ll take care of me,” Tupper said. “It’s a smart investment for both of us.”
这位母亲出钱买下房子，而做兼职的女儿则每月支付一笔1500美元（约合人民币60625元）的租金，包括了她分摊的一部分税金和物业费。家庭开支也由两人共同分担，女儿还能从母亲免费帮忙带孩子中获益。“久而久之，她就会照顾我，”塔珀说，“这是一项对我们来说都很不错的投资。”
Both women feel they have been lucky to escape the problems that can encumber such an arrangement.
两个女人都觉得十分幸运，她们躲过了可能会妨碍这种生活的那些问题。
“It’s usually complicated when you have two adult women under one roof,” Tupper said. “But we just really have a lot of fun.” Her daughter chimed in: “You know what it’s like to have your mom, who you know and trust and love, helping take care of your children? It’s unbelievable.”
“当一个家庭里住着两名成年女人的时候，情况通常会很复杂，”塔珀说，“但我们俩的生活真的很有乐趣。”她的女儿插了进来：“你知道让你的母亲，一个你了解、信任且深爱的人来照顾你的孩子是什么样的吗？太不可思议了。”
The Thomas family came together under one roof voluntarily. That is not always the case.
托马斯一家自愿住在了同一屋檐下。但事情可并不总是这样。
In August, after being laid off from a job, Elizabeth Sollazzo moved back to the house in Staten Island where she had grown up. She hopes that the arrangement will be temporary, but so far things are working well. What could have been a fraught situation, in part because Ms. Sollazzo’s mother has Alzheimer’s disease, has proved unexpectedly rewarding.
八月间，伊丽莎白·索洛佐(Elizabeth Sollazzo)在失业后，搬回了她儿时在史泰登岛(Staten Island)生活过的那栋房屋。她希望这样的安排是暂时的，但目前事情一切顺利。索洛佐的母亲患有阿尔茨海默症(Alzheimer's disease)，这个情况原本可能令人忧虑，目前看来却意外地让人获益良多。
“To be honest, I didn’t know how everything would work out,” John Sollazzo said of his daughter’s return to the family homestead. “She has her ways, I have mine. But I’m happy as all heck that she’s around. I’ve loved every minute of it, and I miss her when she’s gone.”
“坦白讲，我不知道事情会变成怎样，”约翰·索洛佐(John Sollazzo)谈起他女儿回家的事时说，“她有她的方式，我有我的做法。但她能在我们身边，我还是觉得开心得要命。我享受这段时光的每分每秒，而她不在的时候，我会很想她。”
From 2006 to 2011 Ms. Sollazzo worked for the Arthur Kill Correctional Facility on the island, making $49,000 a year as a teacher of art to inmates. At the time she was living in Brooklyn. But after she lost her job at the end of 2011, she was unable to pay her rent.
从2006年到2011年，索洛佐在这座岛上为亚瑟．基尔惩教中心(Arthur Kill Correctional Facility)工作。作为当地居民的艺术老师，她一年能挣49000美元（约合人民币29.7万元）。而当她住在布鲁克林。但在2011年底失业后，她再也付不出房租了。
And so she returned to the Sollazzo family home, a two-family red-brick and white-clapboard structure with twin evergreens in the pocket-size front yard. Mr. Sollazzo and his wife, Frances, both 74, had bought the house for $27,000 in 1970, not long after their marriage.
于是，她回到了父母家。那是一栋两家共用式的、镶有白色护墙板的红砖建筑，前院有两处巴掌大的绿地。索洛佐和妻子弗朗西斯都已经74岁了，他们在1970年结婚后不久，便以27000美元（约合人民币16.3万元）的价格买下了这栋房子。
The younger Ms. Sollazzo, who is 49, has vivid memories of picking black raspberries in the woods behind the house, and many decorative details that defined the house during her childhood are still in place. Shelves packed with silver bowls and goblets, now slightly tarnished, line the living-room walls. Photographs of the Sollazzos’ long-ago wedding abound.
而那位小索洛佐已经49岁，当年在屋后树林中采摘覆盆子的往事仍然历历在目；这栋房屋中许多自她童年时起就存在的装饰部件，也还在原处。几个放满银碗和银杯的架子，如今已经有些晦暗了，沿着客厅的墙壁排列着。家里到处都是索洛佐夫妇很久以前的结婚照。
Ms. Sollazzo’s childhood bedroom, where she still sleeps, is similarly unchanged. Even the wallpaper, a white-on-white background embossed with rosettes, has survived. One of the few new additions to the house is the 55-inch flat-screen television set, a Christmas gift to her parents.
索洛佐仍然睡在自己儿时的卧室，这里也一样没有改变。甚至连白织提花背景中点缀着玫瑰花结的墙纸都保留了下来。家里不多的几件新添物品，是一台55英寸的平板电视。这是她送给父母的一件圣诞礼物。
Ms. Sollazzo, who is divorced and the mother of two grown children, makes $15 to $23 an hour working two part-time jobs. She teaches art at Intermediate School 30 in Brooklyn under the auspices of NIA, a community services group, and at the Art Lab at the Snug Harbor Cultural Center.
离婚并有两名成年子女的索洛佐打了两份工，每小时能赚15到23美元（约合人民币91到139元）。她在一个社区服务组织NIA赞助的布鲁克林区30号初级中学(Intermediate School 30)和斯纳格海港文化中心(Snug Harbor Cultural Center)的艺术实验室里教画画。
She has started selling Mary Kay cosmetics — the additional money helps her contribute to the cost of food and cleaning supplies — and she makes a little extra selling her own artwork. Having inherited political genes from her father, a retired firefighter so active in local Democratic Party politics that islanders affectionately call him “Mr. Democrat,” she also worked as a campaign coordinator for Mendy Mirocznik, a Staten Islander who ran unsuccessfully for City Council.
她还开始销售玫琳凯(Mary Kay)化妆品——这份额外收入帮她负担了食物与洗涤衣物的费用，而且她还通过出售自己的画，赚点了外快。她的父亲是位退休的消防员，在当地的民主党政治事务中十分活跃，以至于岛民们都亲切地称呼他为“民主先生”。由于继承了父亲的政治基因，她还为一位史泰登岛民曼迪·米罗兹尼克(Mendy Mirocznik)当过竞选运动协调员。但后者并未成功竞选市议员。
“To be able to come back to the house was a good thing,” Ms. Sollazzo said. “It can be hard, because there are lots of different opinions with several people under one roof.” But though she intends to stay just until she can get back on her feet, “I’m very thankful I had a place to come home to. It makes it better for everyone.”
“能回到家里住是件好事，”小索洛佐说，“这可能会很难，因为几个人住在同一屋檐下会有许多意见分歧。”但她打算在这里待到自己可以重新自食其力为止，“我很感激能有家可回。这让每个人的生活都过得更好。”
That seems to be the case. Mr. Sollazzo recently had triple bypass surgery, and while he is now in robust health, he treasures having an energetic, like-minded daughter around. Aides help care for his wife. But he said his daughter’s presence, and her help with cooking, cleaning and laundry, had made it possible for his wife to remain at home rather than be moved to a nursing home.
看起来，的确是这样。老索洛佐最近刚刚做过三重心脏搭桥手术，虽然他现在身强体壮，但还是很珍惜有个精力充沛、想法相近的女儿陪在身边。有援助机构可以帮忙照顾他的妻子。但是他说，有女儿在家帮忙做饭、洗衣服和打扫卫生，这就使他的妻子有可能留在自己家里，而不是被送到看护所了。
Most multigenerational families live outside of apartment-heavy Manhattan, where it’s easier to retrofit a free-standing house or a family-owned brownstone to make room for additional people.
大多数几代同堂的家庭，都生活在单元公寓密集的曼哈顿之外。那些地方很容易改建一栋独栋公寓，或着一栋一家人共有的褐砂石房屋(brownstone)，以便腾出空间多住些人。
Yet it can be done in Manhattan, as Nathan Vogel, a marketing research consultant, discovered three years ago when he redid his 1,550-square-foot apartment on West 70th Street to accommodate his widowed mother, Rachel, 93.
不过，在曼哈顿也能这么做，正如市场研究顾问内森·沃格尔(Nathan Vogel)发现的那样。三年前，他改建了自己那套位于西70街的1550平方英尺（约144平方米）的公寓，好让自己93岁的母亲雷切尔(Rachel)来住。
“My parents lived across the street,” said Mr. Vogel, who is 62 and the father of two teenage sons. “But after my father died four years ago, my mother was increasingly frail and less sharp. She also has leukemia. My wife suggested, ‘Why doesn’t she live with us?’ ” As it turned out, the mother stayed until this past October.
“我的父母住在街对面，”今年62岁并有两个十来岁的儿子的沃格尔说，“但是四年前，我父亲去世之后，母亲就越来越脆弱迟钝了。她还患有白血病。我的妻子建议说，‘为什么不让她和我们一起生活呢？’”结果，这位母亲就一直住到了今年（2013年——译注）的十月。
In preparation for the move, the Vogel apartment was reconfigured. Two-thirds of the dining room was removed to create a sleeping alcove. Walls were shifted in a way that reduced the size of both boys’ bedrooms. Closets came and went.
为了给这次搬迁做准备，沃格尔将公寓重新修整了一番。餐厅隔出三分之二的地方，布置成了一个睡觉的小隔间；墙壁挪了位置，缩小了两个男孩的卧室；衣柜有增有减。
One result of the move was that Mr. Vogel’s mother, whose sole source of income was Social Security, no longer had to pay monthly rent of $3,000. But the tens of thousands of dollars spent for new construction offset any potential savings.
这次搬家的一个结果就是，以社保为唯一收入来源的沃格尔的母亲，不再需要支付每月3000美元（约合人民币1.8万元）的租金了。不过，花在公寓翻新工程上的上万美元，也抵消了可能省下的费用。
In any case, Mr. Vogel said: “We didn’t do this for financial reasons. It just seemed like the right thing to do. And for the first two years it was wonderful for all of us.” He has especially warm memories of his mother, a Holocaust survivor, lighting the Sabbath candles and reciting prayers on Friday nights as her grandsons looked on.
无论如何，沃格尔说：“我们并不是为了财务原因而这样做的，只是看起来应该这样做。最初两年，我们所有人都觉得很不错。”他对母亲有特别温暖的记忆。她是犹太人大屠杀的一名幸存者，每逢星期五晚上，她就会点起安息日蜡烛(Sabbath candles)并背诵祈祷词，而她的孙子们会在一旁观看。
Nevertheless, the burdens increased. Privacy became a greater issue, especially as the children got older. After Mr. Vogel’s mother slipped and fell on her way to the bathroom early one morning, the son started to sleep on a couch in the living room, adjacent to his mother’s bedroom, rigging a set of chairs that squeaked and awakened him if she was up and about. As a result he rarely had an uninterrupted night’s sleep.
然而，负担也增加了。隐私成了更大的问题，特别是当孩子们越来越大的时候。一天早上，沃格尔的母亲在去浴室的路上滑倒了。从此以后，当儿子的就开始在客厅沙发上睡觉，以便靠近他母亲的卧室。他还放了几把椅子，如果她起床走动，就会发出响声把他弄醒。结果，他晚上很少能睡上一个安稳觉。
In October, after the second hospitalization within a week, Ms. Vogel was moved to a rehabilitation center. The next step, her son thinks, will be an apartment in the neighborhood with a live-in aide.
在十月里，当沃格尔老太太一周之内第二次住进医院后，她被转移到了一家康复中心。她的儿子想，下一步他们将在本社区内找个公寓套间，还要带居家看护服务。
He sometimes wonders what the experience might have been like if he lived somewhere else. “In the suburbs,” he said, “it would have been completely different. You could dedicate a room. But how many people can you crowd into 1,550 square feet?”
他有时会想，如果自己住在其它地方，情况会是什么样。“在郊区，”他说，“事情应该就会完全不同了。你可以腾出一个房间来。但是在一个面积1550平方英尺（约合144平方米）的住处，还能挤下多少人呢？”