PHILIPSBURG, Pa. — Emma Whitehead has been bounding around the house lately, practicing somersaults and rugby-style tumbles that make her parents wince.
宾夕法尼亚州菲利普斯堡——埃玛·怀特黑德(Emma Whitehead)近来一直在这家里欢蹦乱跳，练习空手翻和英国橄榄球式的打滚，令她的父母担惊受怕。
It is hard to believe, but last spring Emma, then 6, was near death from leukemia. She had relapsed twice after chemotherapy, and doctors had run out of options.
而令人难以置信的是，在今年春天，6岁的埃玛几乎死于白血病。她曾两次在化疗之后旧病复发，而医生已经束手无策了。
Desperate to save her, her parents sought an experimental treatment at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia, one that had never before been tried in a child, or in anyone with the type of leukemia Emma had. The experiment, in April, used a disabled form of the AIDS virus to reprogram Emma’s immune system genetically to kill cancer cells.
为了救女儿的命，心急如焚的父母把她送到费城儿童医院(Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia)，去接受了一个实验性疗法。这种疗法此前从未在儿童身上用过，也从未在埃玛这类白血病患者身上用过。今年4月进行的这次尝试，是使用一种丧失传染力的艾滋病病毒在基因层面重新编码埃玛的免疫系统，从而杀死癌细胞。
The treatment very nearly killed her. But she emerged from it cancer-free, and seven months later is still in complete remission. She is the first child and one of the first humans ever in whom new techniques have achieved a long-sought goal — giving a patient’s own immune system the lasting ability to fight cancer.
这种疗法差点要了她的命。但在她恢复过来后，癌细胞都消失了，而且七个月后病情仍旧处于缓解状态。她是首名儿童测试者，也是首次接受测试的患者中的一名。这种疗法通过新技术，实现了一个长期追寻的目标，即赋予患者自己的免疫系统与癌症持久斗争的能力。
Emma had been ill with acute lymphoblastic leukemia since 2010, when she was 5, her parents, Kari and Tom, said. She is their only child.
埃玛的父母卡丽(Kari)和汤姆(Tom)说，埃玛从2010年起就患上了急性淋巴细胞性白血病，那时她5岁。埃玛是他们唯一的孩子。
She is among just a dozen patients with advanced leukemia to have received the experimental treatment, which was developed at the University of Pennsylvania. Similar approaches are also being tried at other centers, including the National Cancer Institute and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.
这个实验性疗法由宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)开创。埃玛只是12名接受这种疗法的晚期白血病患者中的一名。其他医疗中心也正在尝试类似的疗法，包括美国国家癌症研究所(National Cancer Institute)和纪念斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心(Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center)。
“Our goal is to have a cure, but we can’t say that word,” said Dr. Carl June, who leads the research team at the University of Pennsylvania. He hopes the new treatment will eventually replace bone-marrow transplantation, an even more arduous, risky and expensive procedure that is now the last hope when other treatments fail in leukemia and related diseases.
“我们的目标是找到一种治愈方法，但我们不能这么说，”领导宾夕法尼亚大学这一课题研究组的卡尔·琼博士(Carl June)说。他希望新疗法能够最终取代骨髓移植，因为后者是一种更加费力、危险且昂贵的方法。现在，在治疗白血病及相关疾病的其他疗法失败时，骨髓移植是最后一丝希望。
Three adults with chronic leukemia treated at the University of Pennsylvania have also had complete remissions, with no signs of disease; two of them have been well for more than two years, said Dr. David Porter. Four adults improved but did not have full remissions, and one was treated too recently to evaluate. A child improved and then relapsed. In two adults, the treatment did not work at all. The Pennsylvania researchers are presenting their results on Sunday and Monday in Atlanta at a meeting of the American Society of Hematology.
三名在宾夕法尼亚大学接受治疗的慢性白血病成年患者也完全缓解，不再有任何疾病症状。戴维·波特(David Porter)博士说，他们中的两人已经在两年多的时间里保持了健康。四名成年患者的病情有所好转，但并未完全缓解；另有一名成年患者近期才接受治疗，其疗效有待评估。一名儿童患者有所好转，但随后旧病复发。对于另外两名成年患者，这种疗法毫无效果。周日和周一，在亚特兰大召开的美国血液病协会(American Society of Hematology)的一次会议上，宾夕法尼亚大学的研究者发布了他们的实验结果。
Despite the mixed results, cancer experts not involved with the research say it has tremendous promise, because even in this early phase of testing it has worked in seemingly hopeless cases.
未参与到此次研究中的癌症专家称，尽管出现了好坏掺杂的结果，这项实验也大有前途，因为即便是在实验的早期阶段，该疗法也对那些似乎毫无希望的病例起了作用。
A major drug company, Novartis, is betting on the Penn team, and has committed $20 million to building a research center on the Penn campus to bring the treatment to market.
大型制药公司诺华公司(Novartis)已经把赌注压在了宾大的研究团队上。诺华斥资2000万美元（约合1.2亿元人民币），在宾大校园建立了一所研究中心，来把这种疗法推向市场。
Hervé Hoppenot, president of Novartis Oncology, called the research “fantastic” and said it had the potential — if the early results hold up — to revolutionize the treatment of leukemia and related blood cancers. Researchers say the same approach, reprogramming the patient’s immune system, may also be used eventually against tumors like breast and prostate cancer.
诺华肿瘤(Novartis Oncology)的总裁埃尔韦·奥普诺(Hervé Hoppenot)把这项研究称为“奇妙”，并称如果前期成果有效，这项研究可能会彻底改变白血病和其他血液类癌症的治疗方法。研究者称，同样的方法，即重新编码患者的免疫系统，也有可能最终被用于治疗乳腺癌和前列腺癌等肿瘤病。
To perform the treatment, doctors remove millions of the patient’s T-cells — a type of white blood cell — and insert new genes that enable the T-cells to kill cancer cells. The new genes program the T-cells to attack B-cells, a normal part of the immune system that turns malignant in leukemia.
在实施这种疗法时，医生会从患者体内抽出数以百万计的T细胞（一种白细胞），并注入新的基因，使得T细胞能够杀死癌细胞。新的基因会发出指令，让T细胞对B细胞进行攻击。B细胞是免疫系统的一部分，但在白血病中会变成恶性的。
The altered T-cells — called chimeric antigen receptor cells — are then dripped back into the patient’s veins, and if all goes well they multiply like crazy and start destroying the cancer.
改变之后的T细胞——被称为嵌合抗原受体细胞——被输入病人的血管中。如果一切顺利的话，它们会疯狂增殖，并开始抗击癌症。
The T-cells home in on a protein called CD-19 that is found on the surface of most B-cells, whether they are healthy or malignant.
这种T细胞会针对位于大多数B细胞表面的一种名为CD-19的蛋白质发起攻击，不管B细胞是健康的还是恶性的。
A sign that the treatment is working is that the patient becomes terribly ill, with raging fevers and chills — a reaction that oncologists call “shake and bake,” Dr. June said. Its medical name is cytokine-release syndrome, or cytokine storm, referring to the natural chemicals that pour out of cells in the immune system as they are being activated, causing fevers and other symptoms. 
这种治疗开始起效的标志是，患者病情加重，伴有严重的发烧和发冷——这一反应被肿瘤学家称为“摇一摇烤一烤”，琼医生说。该反应的医学名称是细胞因子释放综合症，或称细胞因子风暴，指的是免疫系统里的细胞在激活状态下释放出来的天然化学物质，这些细胞因子会引起发烧和其他症状。
In patients with lasting remissions after the treatment, the altered T-cells persist in the bloodstream, though in smaller numbers than when they were fighting the disease. Some patients have had the cells for years.
对那些在接受治疗后病情持久缓解的患者来说，改变后的T细胞会长期留存在血液里，尽管它们后来的数量会少于抗击癌症时的数量。一些患者会已携带这些细胞长达数年。
Dr. Michel Sadelain, who conducts similar studies at the Sloan-Kettering Institute, said: “These T-cells are living drugs. With a pill, you take it, it’s eliminated from your body and you have to take it again.” But T-cells, he said, “could potentially be given only once, maybe only once or twice or three times.”
米歇尔·萨德兰博士(Michel Sadelain)在斯隆-凯特林研究所(Sloan-Kettering Institute)也进行了类似的研究。他说，“这些T细胞是活着的药片。对于药片，你服下之后就会从你的体内排出，你不得不再服一片。”他说，但T细胞“可能只需要制造一次或许少数几次”。
Penn researchers said they were surprised to find any big drug company interested in their work, because a new batch of T-cells must be created for each patient — a far cry from the familiar commercial strategy of developing products like Viagra or cholesterol medicines, in which millions of people take the same drug.
宾夕法尼亚大学的研究人员说，他们惊奇地发现会有制药公司对他们的工作感兴趣，因为他们必须为每个患者制造新的T细胞——这和研发药物的常规商业策略相距甚远，如伟哥(Viagra)或胆固醇药物。对于这两种药物而言，数百万的人都服用相同的药物。
But Mr. Hoppenot said Novartis was taking a different path with cancer drugs, looking for treatments that would have a big, unmistakable impact on a small number of patients. Such home-run drugs can be approved more quickly and efficiently, he said, with smaller studies than are needed for drugs with less obvious benefits.
但奥普诺说，诺华对抗癌药物实施了不同的策略，他们想为一小部分患者找疗效重大，且无可置疑的治疗方法。他说，这种疗效显著的药物能更快更有效地获得批准，其所需的研究量也小于那些药效较不明显的药物。
“The economic model is totally acceptable,” Mr. Hoppenot said.
“这种经济模式是完全可行的，”奥普诺说。
But such drugs tend to be hugely expensive. A prime example is the Novartis drug Gleevec, which won rapid approval in 2001 for use against certain types of leukemia and gastrointestinal tumors. It can cost more than $5,000 a month, depending on the dosage.
但这样的药物一般都极其昂贵。最好的例子就是诺华生产的药物“格列卫”(Gleevec)。该药物在2001年迅速获得批准，被用于一些特定类型的白血病和胃肠道肿瘤。根据不同的服用量，此药的费用可达到5000美元一月。
Dr. June said that producing engineered T-cells costs about $20,000 per patient — far less than the cost of a bone-marrow transplant. Scaling up the procedure should make it even less expensive, he said, but he added, “Our costs do not include any profit margin, facility depreciation costs, or other clinical care costs, and other research costs.”
琼博士说，通过基因工程制造T细胞的费用大约是2万美元一人——远远小于一次骨髓移植的费用。他说，扩大规模会进一步降低费用。但他又补充道，“我们的费用不包括任何利润率、设备折旧成本或其他的临床护理费用和其他的研究费用。”
The research is still in its early stages, and many questions remain. The researchers are not entirely sure why the treatment works, or why it sometimes fails.
该研究现在还处在早期阶段，仍有很多问题尚待解决。研究人员并不完全确定，治疗为什么会有效，为什么有时又会失败。
So far, her parents say, Emma seems to have taken it all in stride. She went back to school this year with her second-grade classmates, and though her grades are high and she reads about 50 books a month, she insists impishly that her favorite subjects are lunch and recess.
埃玛的父母说，到目前为止，埃玛的情况似乎一切顺利。她今年回到了学校，和二年级的同学们一起学习，尽管她的成绩很好，而且每个月会读大约50本书，但她顽皮地坚称自己最喜爱的学科是午餐和休息。
“It’s time for her to be a kid again and get her childhood back,” Mr. Whitehead said.
“是该让她重新当一个小孩，找回自己的童年，”怀特黑德说。