WASHINGTON — The Air Force said on Wednesday that 34 officers responsible for launching the nation’s nuclear missiles had been suspended, and their security clearances revoked, for cheating on monthly proficiency tests that assess their knowledge of how to operate the warheads.
华盛顿——美国空军周三表示，由于在评估核弹头操作能力的月度水平测试中作弊，34名负责发射核导弹的军官被停职，他们的安全权限也被收回。
At a news conference, Deborah Lee James, the secretary of the Air Force, said the officers, at Malmstrom Air Force Base in North Dakota, either knew about or took part in texting answers to the routine monthly tests.
空军部长德博拉·李·詹姆斯(Deborah Lee James)在新闻发布会上表示，这些军官隶属于北达科他州的马姆斯特罗姆空军基地(Malmstrom Air Force Base)，其中一些人参与了用短信发送月度例行测试的答案，另一些人则知晓此事。
Eleven Air Force officers — including two accused in the Malmstrom cheating scandal, as well as one other nuclear missile officer — have also been the focus of suspicion in an illegal drugs investigation, defense officials said.
国防部官员表示，11名空军军官——其中有两名卷入了马姆斯特罗姆作弊丑闻，还有一名同样来自核导弹部队的军官——还在一起毒品调查案中遭到怀疑。
Although the Air Force has been plagued in recent years by scandals, the current revelations are particularly alarming because they involve America’s nuclear arsenal, where errors could be catastrophic.
虽然美国空军近年来备受丑闻困扰，但眼下曝光的这些事件尤其令人忧心，因为它们涉及核武库，一旦出现差错，后果可能不堪设想。
“There’s no making this better,” said Kathleen Hicks, a former top defense official in the Obama administration. She called any potential security lapse in the country’s nuclear arsenal as “worrisome. Period. Full Stop.”
“这事糟糕透顶，”奥巴马政府前高级国防官员凯瑟琳·希克斯(Kathleen Hicks)说。她表示，涉及美国核武库的任何潜在安全漏洞都“令人担忧。就是这样。”
Defense officials insisted that the nation’s nuclear arsenal remained safe.
国防部官员坚称，美国核武库依然安全。
“This is not about the compromise of nuclear weapons,” said Gen. Mark A. Welsh III, the Air Force chief of staff. He called the revelations a “compromise of the integrity of some of our airmen” and said the Air Force “will not accept or allow that type of behavior.”
“这与核武器安全威胁无关，”空军参谋长马克·威尔士三世(Mark A. Welsh III)将军说。他称这些事件是“我们一些军官的诚信污点”，并说空军“不会接受或允许这类行为”。
He characterized the Malmstrom case as the largest cheating episode he had come across among missile launch officers.
他表示，在他见过的导弹发射军官考试作弊事件中，马姆斯特罗姆丑闻是最大的一起。
Defense experts say that the end of the Cold War and the elevation of counterterrorism in the American military has led to low morale among the men and women, known as missileers, who live and work within a hair trigger of the country’s 450 nuclear missiles. The missileers have increasingly come to view their mission as a backwater, with little chance of advancement to the top ranks of the Air Force.
国防专家说，冷战的结束以及美国军方对反恐行动的升级，导致被称为“导弹人”(missileer)的男女军官们士气低落，这些人在450枚核导弹咫尺之遥的范围里工作和生活。他们越来越觉得自己的使命就是死水一潭，没有晋升到空军高层的机会。
Bruce G. Blair, a former Minuteman missile launch control officer, said missile officers routinely cheated, in part because the Air Force required them to score 100 percent on the proficiency tests. “Perfection is demanded of all of these crew members, and it’s an impossible standard,” Mr. Blair said.
布鲁斯·G·布莱尔(Bruce G. Blair)曾经是“民兵”式(Minuteman)导弹的发射控制人员，他说，导弹部队军官在测试中作弊是一种常态，部分原因是空军要求大家满分通过水平测试。“要求所有人都得满分，这一标准不现实，”布莱尔说。
The Air Force cheating and drug scandals come at a time when a large number of senior officers in other branches of the military have been investigated, penalized or fired in connection with allegations of sexual improprieties, sexual violence, financial mismanagement or poor judgment.
空军发生作弊和毒品丑闻之际，其他兵种的大量高级管理人员也正在遭到调查、处罚或免职，原因包括涉嫌不当性行为、性暴力、财务管理不善或缺乏判断力。
But Air Force nuclear missile officers have had particular problems. Last month, an Air Force inquiry revealed that the general who oversaw some of the nation’s nuclear weapons was dismissed for drunken antics during an official trip to Moscow last summer.
但空军核导弹部队军官的问题很特别。上个月，对空军进行的一项调查显示，一位负责看管部分核武器的将军遭到了免职，因为他去年夏天在对莫斯科进行正式访问时喝醉了酒，行为不当。
The officer, Maj. Gen. Michael J. Carey, was removed as commander of the 20th Air Force, which maintains and operates intercontinental ballistic missiles, after being accused of drinking heavily, insulting his guests, consorting with someone identified as the “cigar shop lady,” and slurring his speech while weaving in Red Square, “pouting and stumbling.”
这位将军是迈克尔·J·凯里(Michael J. Carey)少将，原为负责洲际弹道导弹维护和运行的空军第20军指挥官，他受到的指控是大量酗酒，侮辱客人，跟一位被指认为“雪茄店小姐”的女士厮混，以及“板着脸、跌跌撞撞”地在红场穿行，含糊不清地讲话。
Last May the Air Force disclosed that it removed 17 officers assigned to stand watch over nuclear-tipped Minuteman missiles after finding safety violations, potential violations in protecting codes and attitude problems.
去年5月，空军表示对17名负责看守装有核弹头的“民兵”式导弹的军官给予免职处理，这些军官违反了安全规定，可能在保护代码方面有违规行为，而且工作态度有问题。
And last November, The Associated Press reported that Air Force officers with nuclear launch authority had twice been caught napping with the blast door open. That is a violation of security regulations meant to prevent a terrorist or intruder from entering the underground command post and compromising secret launch codes.
去年11月，美联社(The Associated Press)报道，空军核弹发射部队的军官两度被发现开着防护门打盹。这违反了避免恐怖分子或入侵者进入这个地下指挥所，危及秘密发射代码的安全规定。
The Pentagon disclosed the original drug inquiry last week, but officials have declined to go into details on the investigation, which is continuing, other than to say that the officers are suspected of possessing recreational drugs.
上周，五角大楼披露了毒品调查的初步结果，但官员们拒绝透露这项仍在进行的调查的详情，只是说，这些官员被怀疑持有消遣性毒品。
Senator Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado and chairman of the Senate subcommittee that oversees the nuclear arsenal, said Wednesday of the cheating scandal that “there is simply no room in our Air Force, and certainly in our nuclear enterprise, for this type of misconduct.”
周三，科罗拉多州民主党参议员、参议院负责监督核武库的小组委员会主席马克·尤德尔(Mark Udall)在谈到作弊丑闻时说：“我们的空军，特别是核机构里，没有容忍这类不当行为的余地。”
Ms. James said she would travel next week to missile launch sites to discuss ways to prevent future problems. She said that 600 missile crew members across the Air Force, including all of the 190 officers at Malmstrom, would retake the proficiency test by Thursday.
詹姆斯说，她下周将前往导弹发射部队驻地，讨论如何防范未来可能出现的问题。她说，整个空军600名导弹人员，包括马姆斯特罗姆基地的190人在内，全部都将在周四重新参加水平测试。
General Welsh said that the time frame for the cheating alleged to have occurred was last August and September.
威尔士将军说，这起作弊事件发生的时间是去年8月和9月。
As for the reports in November of crews sleeping with the blast door open, Mr. Blair, the former Minuteman launch control officer, said that back when he was a missileer, “everyone slept with the blast door open.”
至于11月报道的开着防护门睡觉的事件，曾经是“民兵”式导弹发射控制官的布莱尔说，当初他还是“导弹人”的时候，“大家都是开着防护门睡觉的”。