MANILA — Secretary of State John Kerry said here on Tuesday that the United States would give the Philippines $40 million in maritime security assistance and was negotiating with Manila to rotate more American military forces through the country, the latest signs of the Obama administration’s concerns about mounting pressure from China on its neighbors.
马尼拉——周二，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在这里表示，美国将为菲律宾提供4000万美元的海上安全援助，而且正在与马尼拉商议让更多美国士兵在菲律宾轮换驻防事宜，这个最新迹象表明，中国对邻国施加的巨大压力引起了奥巴马政府的担心。
Both steps have been months in preparation, and Mr. Kerry took pains not to portray them as direct responses to the most recent difficulties in Chinese-American relations. Even so, they signal that the United States may not back down quickly as China becomes increasingly assertive in claiming islands, airspace and large expanses of ocean in the East China Sea and South China Sea.
以上两项举措都经过了几个月的准备，克里煞费苦心地让它们看起来不像是对最近中美矛盾的直接回应。即便如此，这些举动还是表明，面对中国对东海及南海岛屿、空域和大片海域越来越强硬的主权主张，美国可能不会很快做出让步。
“The United States strongly opposes the use of intimidation, coercion or aggression to advance territorial claims,” Mr. Kerry said. “The United States remains firmly committed to the security of the Philippines and the region.”
“美国坚决反对使用恐吓、压迫和侵略手段来加强领土主张，”克里说。“美国依然会坚决维护菲律宾以及该地区的安全。”
Appearing at a joint news conference after an afternoon of discussions, Mr. Kerry and the Philippine foreign secretary, Albert F. del Rosario, strongly criticized China’s recent unilateral declaration of an air defense identification zone over the East China Sea, including airspace previously monitored mainly by Japan and South Korea.
经过一下午的讨论，克里和菲律宾外交部长阿尔伯特·F·德尔罗萨里奥(Albert F. Del Rosario)在一次联合新闻发布会上现身，强烈谴责中国近期单边宣布在东海划设防空识别区的做法。该防空识别区涵盖之前主要受日本和韩国监控的空域。
“China, in doing this, effectively is attempting to transform an air zone into its own domestic airspace, and we think that this could lead to compromising freedom of flight,” Mr. del Rosario said.
德尔罗萨里奥说，“中国这样做，实际上是想把这个空域变成自己的领空，我们认为，这可能会导致飞行自由受到损害。”
Mr. Kerry reiterated that “the United States does not recognize that zone and does not accept it.”
克里重申，“美国不承认这个防空识别区，也不接受它。”
“The zone should not be implemented, and China should refrain from taking similar unilateral actions elsewhere in the region, and particularly over the South China Sea,” he said.
他说，“这个防空识别区不应该付诸实施，中国也不应该将类似单边行动用于本地区的其他地方，特别是南海区域。”
The latest maritime incident between the United States and China in the South China Sea occurred on Dec. 5, but did not become public until last weekend. An American vessel, the missile-carrying cruiser Cowpens, nearly collided with a Chinese ship that was accompanying China’s aircraft carrier, the Liaoning.
中美两国在南海的最新海上事件发生在12月5日，但却直到上周末才公开。当时，美国导弹巡洋舰“考本斯号”(Cowpens)几乎撞上了与中国航空母舰“辽宁号”同行的一艘中国军舰。
The joint news conference by Mr. Kerry and Mr. del Rosario came at the end of the day on Tuesday, after the daily Foreign Ministry briefing in Beijing, and there was no immediate reaction from the Chinese government.
克里和德尔罗萨里奥的联合新闻发布会在周二晚上举行，时间在北京外交部的日常新闻发布会之后，中国政府没有立即对此做出回应。
But Ruan Zongze, a prominent Chinese diplomat who is a vice president of the China Institute of International Studies, a research organization in Beijing financed by the Foreign Ministry, said in a telephone interview that the Chinese government would not be pleased by the prospect of more American forces in the Philippines — even if those forces are classified as rotating through and not permanently based there.
然而，中国著名外交官、中国国际问题研究所副所长阮宗泽接受电话采访时表示，中国政府不会对美国增加驻菲部队的举措感到高兴，即便这些兵力只是以菲律宾为轮换驻防地，不进行长期驻扎。中国国际问题研究所是一家位于北京的研究机构，由外交部资助。
“It happens against the backdrop of China-Philippines disputes,” he said. “Any of these measures taken by the United States will be taken by the Chinese as support for Manila. This rotation can be sort of permanent.”
“这项举措出现在中菲争端的背景之下，”他说。“美国采取的这类举措都会被中国视作对马尼拉方面的支持。这种轮换可以算是某种长期驻扎。”
The United States closed two large bases and four small ones in the Philippines in 1991 and 1992, under pressure from Philippine nationalists who objected to the continued presence of American forces after the Cold War had ended. Steven Rood of the Asia Foundation, a nonprofit development group based in San Francisco, said it was important for domestic political reasons in the Philippines that any added American troops not appear to be permanently stationed in the country.
菲律宾民族主义者反对美国军队在冷战结束后继续留在菲律宾，迫于这些人的压力，美国于1991年和1992年关闭了在菲律宾的两个大型基地和四个小型基地。总部位于旧金山的亚洲基金会(Asia Foundation)是一个非营利发展组织，该组织的史蒂文·鲁德(Steven Rood)表示，考虑到菲律宾的国内政治，重要的事情是，不要让人们觉得增加的美国兵力是常驻部队。
While surveys in the Philippines have shown for a decade that the general public would welcome a return of American forces, the country’s decision makers and opinion leaders have begun to come around to that view only in the last couple of years, as rising tensions with China prompted them to reconsider their lingering aversion to an expanded American military footprint.
菲律宾十年来的调查显示，公众欢迎美国军队的回归，然而，该国的决策者及意见领袖只是在近几年才开始倾向于这一观点，原因是中菲关系趋于紧张，促使他们重新考虑自己对规模扩大的美国驻军长期以来的厌恶态度。
So the arrangement “needs to be demonstrably a Philippines base that has an American presence, rather than an American base embedded in a Philippines base,” Mr. Rood said.
鲁德表示，有鉴于此，这项安排“需要清晰地表明，自身是一个有美国士兵驻扎的菲律宾基地，而不是一个嵌入菲律宾基地的美国基地”。
The challenge for the United States lies in how to make the Philippines confident that it can stand up to China in territorial disputes, without emboldening Philippine nationalists to pick fights with their much larger neighbor.
美国面临的挑战是如何使菲律宾拥有在领土争端中对抗中国的自信，同时又不鼓励菲律宾的民族主义者去挑衅国土面积大得多的邻国。
As a vibrant but sometimes tumultuous democracy, the Philippines has a wide spectrum of political views. The Chinese government has sometimes outspokenly condemned the more assertive comments made by politicians in Manila, even as it pursued a more confrontational policy of its own, sending vessels to assert ever more control over islets, coral atolls and even semi-submerged rocks in the South China Sea that the countries each claim.
作为一个充满活力却时或陷入动荡的民主国家，菲律宾存在多种多样的政治观点。中国政府不时直言不讳地指责马尼拉政治人物那些比较强硬的言论，尽管中国自身采取了更具对抗性的政策，不断派船舰宣示对一些南海小岛、珊瑚礁以至半水下礁石的更多控制权，中菲两国都宣称对这些地方拥有主权。