The F.B.I. is leading an investigation into a fire that was set Wednesday night at the main entrance of the Chinese Consulate General in San Francisco, the authorities said Thursday. No injuries were reported.
政府官员周四表示，美国联邦调查局(F.B.I.)正就中国驻旧金山总领事馆正门周三夜间被人点火焚烧展开调查。袭击没有导致人员伤亡。
The consulate denounced the attack as “despicable” and demanded that the United States move quickly to find those responsible.
中国总领事馆谴责了这次袭击事件，称之为“卑鄙的袭击” 并且要求美国政府迅速行动以找到元凶。
An F.B.I. spokesman in San Francisco, Peter Lee, said that the fire had been started by an “incendiary device,” but that it did not appear to have been a bomb. He said the blaze caused significant damage to the building’s doors and charred a large part of the consulate’s exterior before firefighters were able to put it out.
美国联邦调查局驻旧金山的一位发言人Peter Lee说，这次纵火是由一个“纵火装置”引起的，但似乎不是一枚炸弹。他说纵火导致大楼的正门被严重损毁以及领事馆门外的一片区域起火，直至消防员将火扑灭。
Mr. Lee said the F.B.I., along with the State Department’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security and the San Francisco Police Department, was investigating.
Peter Lee说，联邦调查局正协同国务院下设的外交安全局以及旧金山警察局进行调查。
In a statement released late Wednesday, the consulate said that someone had emerged from a minivan in front of the building about 9:25 p.m. and “poured two buckets of gasoline onto the front door of the consulate, and then set it on fire.”
在周三发布的一份声明中，中国总领事馆称，当日晚间大约9:25时，一位身份不明的袭击者从停在大楼前面的一辆商务车中下来，并“向领事馆大门泼洒了两桶汽油，然后点火焚烧。”
The statement continued, “We strongly condemn this despicable act and have already made representations with the U.S. side on the attack.” It urged the United States to do everything necessary to protect the consulate and its personnel.
声明还说，“我们对这一卑鄙的袭击表示强烈谴责。我们已向美方提出交涉”，敦促美方切实履行职责，保护中方馆舍和人员安全。
There have been no claims of responsibility for the attack, which the consulate said had threatened the safety of its staff and residents of the neighborhood.
目前，尚没有人声称对这起攻击负责。领事馆称这次攻击威胁了领事馆工作人员和附近居民的安全。
Pictures of the flames were widely circulated on Chinese social media and news sites Thursday, drawing expressions of outrage from commenters.
纵火的照片周四在中国社交媒体和新闻网站上广泛流传，激起谴责这起袭击事件的评论者的愤怒表达。