What should teacher accountability look like?
教师问责制到底应该是什么样的？
We know what the current system of accountability looks like, and it's not pretty. Ever since the passage of No Child Left Behind 12 years ago, teachers have been judged, far too simplistically, based on standardized tests given to their students — tests, as Marc S. Tucker points out in a new report, Fixing Our National Accountability System, that are used to decide which teachers should get to keep their jobs and which should be fired. This system has infuriated and shamed teachers, and is a lot of the reason that teacher turnover is so high, causing even many of the best teachers to abandon the ranks.
我们了解美国目前的问责体系，但它看起来并不美妙。自从12年前通过《不让孩子掉队》法案 (No Child Left Behind)以来，评判教师的方式一直基于学生的标准化考试成绩，实在是太简化，正如马克·S·塔克(Marc S. Tucker)在其新报告《整顿全美教师问责制》(Fixing Our National Accountability System)中指出的，那是用考试来决定哪些老师可以保住饭碗，哪些又会被解雇。这一制度让教师愤怒、难堪，是师资队伍离职率如此高的一大原因，就连许多最优秀的老师也因此放弃了教职。
All of which might be worth it if this form of accountability truly meant that public school students were getting a better education. But, Tucker writes, “There is no evidence that it is contributing anything to improved student performance.” Meanwhile, he adds, test-based accountability is “doing untold damage to the profession of teaching.”
假如这种问责制真的意味着公立学校学生能获得更好的教育，倒也都值了。但是，塔克写道，“没有任何证据表明，它对促进学生的表现有所助益。”与此同时，基于考试成绩的问责制正在“对教师职业造成难以估量的破坏”。
Tucker is one of the grand old men of education policy. In the 1970s, he worked at the National Institute of Education, followed by a stint at the Carnegie Corp. In 1988, he founded the National Center on Education and the Economy — whose premise, he told me recently, is that, in order to meet the demands of a global economy, our educational system needs to be re-engineered for much higher performance.
塔克是教育政策方面的老前辈。上世纪70年代，他在国家教育研究院(National Institute of Education)工作，随后在卡内基基金会(Carnegie Corp)任职。1988年，他成立了全美教育经济中心(National Center on Education and the Economy)。他近期告诉我，这家中心的信条是，为了满足全球化经济的要求，我们的教育系统需要重新设计，以取得好得多的成效。
Not long after founding the center, Tucker began taking a close look at countries and cities that were re-engineering successfully. What he came away with were two insights. First was a profound appreciation for the fact that most of the countries with the best educational results used the same set of techniques to get there. And, second, that the American reform methods were used nowhere else in the world.
成立中心后不久，塔克开始悉心研究在重塑教育体系上取得成功的国家和城市。他得出了两条深刻见解。首先是要极为尊重一个事实，即取得最佳教育成果的大多数国家均采用了同样一套方法。其次是全球没有其他地方采用了美国的改革方案。
“No other country believes that you can get to a high quality educational system simply by instituting an accountability system,” he says. “We are entirely on the wrong track.” His cri de coeur has been that Americans should look to what works, instead of clinging to what doesn't.
“没有任何其他国家相信，通过简简单单地搞一套问责制就能形成高质量的教育体系，”他说。“我们彻底误入歧途了。”他的肺腑之言是，美国应当研究那些奏效的地方，而不要抱残守缺。
The main thing that works is treating teaching as a profession, and teachers as professionals. That means that teachers are as well paid as other professionals, that they have a career ladder, that they go to elite schools where they learn their craft, and that they are among the top quartile of college graduates instead of the bottom quartile. When I suggested that American cities couldn't afford to pay teachers the way we pay engineers or lawyers, Tucker scoffed. With rare exception, he said, the cost per pupil in the places with the best educational systems is less than the American system, even though their teachers are far better paid.
一个有效的措施是，将教书视作一种高级职业，让老师成为专业人士。这意味着，教师的薪水可与其他专业人士媲美，他们要有职业上升通道，去名牌院校学习专业知识，是大学毕业生中的佼佼者，而非垫底的人。我说美国城镇地区的财政负担不起让教师与工程师或律师收入相当的成本，塔克对此予以了驳斥。他说，除了个别例外，教育系统最出色的地方，在中小学生身上的人均花销均远低于美国，但教师的收入却大大高于美国。
“They are not spending more money; they are spending money differently,” he said.
“他们并没有花更多的钱；只是花钱的方式不同而已，”他说。
Tucker would not abolish tests, but he would have fewer of them. And they would have a different purpose: in the high-performing countries, the tests exist to hold the students accountable, rather than the teachers. Meanwhile, he writes, in “most of these countries, the primary form of accountability for the school and its staff is high-profile publication of the average scores for the exams for each school, often front-page news.”
塔克并非要废除考试，但希望减少考试次数，并且变更考试目的：在教育成效好的国家里，考试的存在是为了让学生负责，而不是教师。他写道，与此同时，在“多数这样的国家里，对学校和教职工问责的主要方式是高调地公开每所学校的考试平均分，往往高调到上新闻头条的地步。”
When a school falls short, instead of looking to fire teachers, the high-performing countries “use the data to decide which schools will receive visits from teams of expert school inspectors. These inspectors are highly regarded educators.”
当某所学校表现不佳的时候，这些教育成效好的国家不是解聘教师，而是“运用数据来决定，哪些学校需要让督学专家组成的团队前去访问，而这些督学都是在教育方面德高望重的人物。”
Tucker envisions the same kind of accountability for teachers as exists for, say, lawyers in a firm — where it is peers holding one another accountable rather than some outside force. People who don't pull their own weight are asked to leave. The ethos is that people help one another to become better for the good of the firm. Those who successfully rise through the ranks are rewarded with higher pay and status.
塔克心中设想的教师问责制与律所里的律师问责制类似——同事之间互相负责，而不依靠什么外来力量。不做出相应贡献的人会遭到解雇。那里的风气是员工互助，以便更好地为公司利益服务。成功晋升的人得到更高的薪水和地位。