WASHINGTON —North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un, “is begging for war,” Nikki Haley, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, told the Security Council on Monday.
华盛顿——美国驻联合国大使尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R.Haley)周一在联合国安理会上说，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)“是在讨打”。
Her remark came a day after the North’s most powerful nuclear test, and hours after South Korean officials told lawmakers that North Korea might be preparing to launch another ballistic missile to mark the anniversary of the founding of the North’s government in the coming days.
在她发表此番言论的一天前，朝鲜进行了威力最强大的核试验，而几个小时前，韩国官员对立法机关成员表示，朝鲜可能正在准备再发射一枚弹道导弹，庆祝几天后的朝鲜国庆。
“We have kicked the can down the road long enough,” Haley told the Council in an emergency meeting. “There is no more road left.”
“我们已经拖得够久了，”黑利在安理会的一次紧急会议上说。“不能再拖了。”
Haley did not threaten unilateral military action by Washington or repeat President Donald Trump’s statement on Twitter that South Korea’s call for more diplomacy was a form of “appeasement.” She said instead that “the time has come for us to exhaust all of our diplomatic means before it’s too late.”
黑利没有威胁华盛顿会采取单边军事行动，也没有重申唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统在Twitter上的声明，即韩国呼吁在外交上投入更多努力是一种“绥靖”政策。她说，“已经到我们穷尽一切外交手段的时候了，免得为时已晚。”
It was the second time in less than a week that the Security Council had met to discuss North Korea, and the 10th time it has done so this year.
这是安理会在不到一周的时间里第二次，也是今年第十次开会讨论朝鲜问题。
Last month, the council tightened sanctions against North Korea, unanimously adopting a resolution that Haley called “the most stringent set of sanctions on any country in a generation.”
上月，安理会收紧对朝鲜的制裁，一致通过了一项决议。黑利称该决议是“一代人的时间里对一个国家采取的最严厉的一套制裁措施”。
But since then, North Korea carried out one of its most provocative missile tests in recent years, hurling a ballistic missile directly over Japan that prompted the government in Tokyo to warn residents in its path to take cover.
但自那以后，朝鲜发射了一枚直接飞越日本上空的弹道导弹，促使东京政府警告沿途民众寻找掩护。这是朝鲜近年来最具挑衅性的导弹试验之一。
And on Sunday, the North conducted its most powerful nuclear test ever, with a blast that experts said was far more destructive than the bombs that the United States dropped on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II.
周六，朝鲜又进行了其有史以来威力最大的核试验。专家称，这次爆炸的破坏力远超美国在“二战”期间向日本广岛和长崎投掷的原子弹。
Koro Bessho, the Japanese ambassador to the United Nations, also stopped short of threatening imminent military action, but said the danger from North Korea had been “raised to an unprecedented level” and was “a grave threat to the peace and the security of the world.”
日本常驻联合国代表别所浩郎(Koro Bessho)也没有发出即将采取军事行动的威胁，但表示来自朝鲜的危险已经“升至史无前例的水平”，并且“严重威胁世界的和平与安全”。
Cho Tae-yul, the South Korean ambassador, described the North’s latest test as “do-or-die behavior.”
韩国驻联合国代表赵兑烈(Cho Tae-yul)称，朝鲜最近这次试验是“孤注一掷之举”。
He called for “truly biting and robust measures that Pyongyang finds really painful,” including blocking the flow of any money that might finance the North’s weapons program.
他呼吁采取“让朝鲜真地感觉到痛苦的真正严厉、有力的措施”，包括禁止任何可能会为朝鲜武器计划提供资金的资金流动。