As the Allies stormed through Germany in 1945, museum officials in Dessau scurried to hide their art treasures in a nearby salt mine, where they would soon be discovered by American soldiers.
1945年，盟军的猛烈攻势席卷德国，东部城市徳绍的博物馆管理员们匆匆把馆藏的艺术珍品藏到附近一个盐矿，但很快被美国士兵发现了。
Much of the art was preserved, but three paintings by old masters somehow ended up in a poker game won by an American tank commander, Maj. William S. Oftebro, who quietly mailed them home.
大多数艺术品被保存下来，但有三件古老的大师杰作被美国坦克兵指挥官威廉·S·奥夫特布洛少校(Maj. William S. Oftebro)在一次扑克牌游戏中赢走，他不声不响地把它们寄回了家乡。
For the past seven decades, they have been with his family, most recently on the wall of his widow’s room in an assisted living center in Texas.
在过去的70年里，它们一直保存在他家里，最近是被挂在得克萨斯州他的遗孀居住的养老院房间墙上。
On Tuesday, the poker winnings began their journey home.
星期二，这些扑克牌游戏的彩头要回家了。
In a ceremony at the State Department in Washington, the three works from Dessau and two other paintings taken by American G.I.’s were handed over by the soldiers’ heirs to the German ambassador to the United States, Peter Wittig, in an event organized by the Monuments Men Foundation, based in Dallas. “I just couldn’t keep them,” the major’s stepson, James Hetherington, 71, of Dallas, said. “Whether he won them in a poker game or not, they were stolen property.”
国务院在华盛顿举行了典礼，三件来自德绍的艺术品，以及其他两件美国士兵从德国拿来的油画被这些士兵的继承人们交还给德国驻美大使彼得·魏蒂格(Peter Wittig)，这项活动由达拉斯的古迹卫士基金会(Monuments Men Foundation)主办。“我不能保留它们，”少校71岁的继子、现居达拉斯的詹姆斯·赫瑟林顿(James Hetherington)说道。“不管这些画是不是他在扑克牌游戏里赢回来的，它们都是被偷来的东西。”
Though stories of art looting during World War II invariably focus on Nazi plunder, German and American officials say thousands of works, among them masterpieces by Dürer, Cranach and Hals, crossed the Atlantic in footlockers and mail parcels in the 1940s. Very few have trickled back.
关于“二战”中被掠夺的艺术品赃物，人们的注意力难免总是集中在纳粹掠夺者身上，但是德国和美国官员说，在40年代，成千上万件艺术品被装在军用小提箱和邮政包裹里穿越了大西洋，其中就有丢勒(Dürer)、克拉纳赫(Cranach)与哈尔斯(Hals)的杰作。几乎没有作品得到归还。
The thefts from German castles and storage vaults in no way match the scale of Nazi looting, and were undertaken by men who had witnessed the bloody toll of German aggression. But few suggest American soldiers were confused about the rules of war. Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower had issued strict directives forbidding such thefts.
从德国的城堡与地窖偷走的物品在规模上不能与纳粹的掠夺相提并论，而且拿走它们的都是那些见识过德军侵略者血腥屠杀的人。但几乎没有人认为美国士兵们是因为不懂军规才这么做。德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔将军(Dwight D. Eisenhower)曾经严令禁止过类似的盗窃行为。
“Yes, they were suffering and losing buddies,” said Robert M. Edsel, chairman of the board of the foundation, which chronicles and promotes the return of art stolen during World War II. “But they knew what they did was wrong.”
“是的，他们很痛苦，内心充满失落，”基金会董事会主席罗伯特·M·埃德塞尔(Robert M. Edsel)说道——他致力于记录“二战”期间的被窃艺术品，并努力促成它们的归还。
Mr. Edsel has spent much of his life researching the work of a small group of American troops who were assigned to safeguard European treasures against the retreating Germans and the advancing Soviets, events portrayed in the 2014 George Clooney film, “The Monuments Men.” He believes the return of artworks to Germany on Tuesday might prompt the families of other American veterans who defied Eisenhower and took illicit trophies to come forward with any items hanging on dining room walls or taking up space in the attic.
埃德塞尔花了很多时间研究一小群美国士兵的工作，在德军撤退和苏联进军期间，他们负责保护欧洲的文物，乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)的电影《古迹卫士》（The Monuments Men，另译《盟军夺宝队》——译注）讲述了他们的故事。他相信，周二这次归还活动可以促进其他违背艾森豪威尔的命令，将非法战利品带回家的老兵们的家人，归还挂在家中餐厅墙上或收藏在阁楼里的物品。
“We just have to hope the heirs will come forward now that they’re discovering these things as the veterans die off,” he said.
“那些老兵如今已经去世，我们希望继承人们可以归还他们发现的物品。”
In the past, returns have been scarce. In 1992, rarities from the eighth century, including a gold-and-jewel-studded Bible cover, a hand-carved ivory and gold chest, and a rock-crystal silver reliquary, went back to a Lutheran church in Germany after a group there paid $3 million to the heirs of the Texas soldier who had them.
过去很少有人归还这些物品。1992年，一个组织向一位得克萨斯州老兵的后裔支付了300万美元，买回他们手中一批来自八世纪的珍宝，并将其归还给德国的一家路德会教堂，其中包括一个黄金与珠宝装潢的圣经书套、一只手工雕刻的象牙与黄金箱子，以及一只镶嵌水晶的银质圣物匣。
Seven years later, a 16th-century painting of Christ by Jacopo de’ Barbari was recovered by a museum in Weimar, Germany, after a Long Island man tried to negotiate a $40,000 reward for the work, stolen in 1945, saying it had mysteriously turned up in his wood shop. Instead, he was arrested and charged with selling stolen property.
七年后，一幅由雅各布·德德巴里(Jacopo de’ Barbari)创作的16世纪的耶稣画像被德国魏玛一家博物馆发现，当时一个长岛男人想以四万美元卖出这幅1945年遭窃的作品，他说这幅作品神秘地出现在他家的木工房里。他不但没有得到报酬，反因出售贼赃遭到逮捕和起诉。
Two years ago, eight antique manuscripts from 1533 to 1789, taken from shell-damaged Naples by an Army radio operator, were handed back to Italian officials by the operator’s grandson.
两年前，八份来自1533年到1789年的古手稿被归还给意大利官方，它们是“二战”中被一位美国陆军电台操作员带走的，归还者是这位操作员的孙子。
The three works obtained by Major Oftebro, whose 750th tank battalion had landed at Normandy, France, were among hundreds that the Anhaltische Gemäldegalerie, a small museum in Dessau, had crated and hidden in the Solvayhall mine, about 30 miles east. But when officers from the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives section arrived at the mine a few weeks later, they found that some hidden items had been taken.
奥夫特布洛少校隶属曾参与法国诺曼底登陆的750坦克营，他拿走的三件文物属于徳绍的小博物馆格安哈尔特美术馆(Anhaltische Gemäldegalerie)，当时该馆把几百件藏品装在板条箱里，藏在博物馆30英里以东的索尔瓦霍尔矿内。但是几周后，当古迹卫士部队的美术与档案部门的专家们来到那座矿藏时，发现一些藏匿的物品已经被人取走了。
Among those missing were “The Prodigal Son,” a 17th-century Flemish work by Frans Francken III; a landscape by the German artist Christian Wilhelm Ernst Dietrich; and “Landscape With Staffage,” by an Austrian, Franz de Paula Ferg. Experts said they would fetch between $25,000 and $50,000 each if sold today.
在遗失的物品中包括17世纪弗兰德画家弗兰斯·弗兰肯三世创作的《浪子回头》(The Prodigal Son)、德国艺术家克里斯蒂安·威廉·厄内斯特·迪特里希(Christian Wilhelm Ernst Dietrich)的一幅风景画，以及奥地利画家弗朗兹·德·保拉·弗格(Franz de Paula Ferg)创作的《风景与陪衬》(Landscape With Staffage)。专家们说这三幅作品如果在今天出售，每幅的价格约在2.5万美元到5万美元之间。
Mr. Hetherington said his mother had married the major in 1982 and that the three works held pride of place on the parlor wall of the Oftebro home for years. No one in the family “had the foggiest idea they were valuable,” he said.
赫瑟林顿说，他的母亲在1982年嫁给少校，这三幅作品多年来一直被奥夫特布洛少校挂在起居室内最显眼的位置。家中“没人能想到它们竟然这么值钱”，他说。
But in 1994, when the major died, and again in 2002, Mr. Hetherington said he had consulted an appraiser. Each time he was told they were listed on a database of stolen art and should be returned to Dessau.
但是1994年少校过世时，赫瑟林顿去咨询了鉴定专家，2002年又鉴定了一次。两次他都被告知，这些作品被列在遭窃艺术品的数据库里，应当被归还给徳绍。
But Mr. Hetherington — influenced, he said, by the losses so many had suffered at the hands of the Nazis — resisted at first, reasoning, “I’m sure as heck not giving anything back to the Germans.”
但是赫瑟林顿说，他深知纳粹给许多人带来伤害，于是一开始拒绝归还这三件艺术品，“我绝对不把任何东西还给德国人。”
More recently, he said, he had a change of heart after seeing The “Monuments Men” and witnessing the heroism of the men who had risked so much to preserve part of the world’s cultural heritage. He described it as “the honorable thing” to do.
但是最近，看了《古迹卫士》，目睹片中角色冒着巨大危险，保护世界文化遗产的英雄事迹，他改变了心意。他说这是“一件光荣的事”。
The two other works being returned were stolen from the Kronberg Castle Hotel outside Frankfurt, a luxurious palace built in 1893 by Queen Victoria’s eldest child, also Victoria, who had married Emperor Frederick III of Prussia and later became known as Empress Friedrich.
另外两件被窃作品将归还给法兰克福郊外的克朗伯格城堡酒店，这是一栋豪华宫殿，由维多利亚女王的长女于1893年兴建，她的名字也是维多利亚，嫁给了普鲁士国王腓特烈三世，后来以腓特烈皇后为世人所知。
One is an unattributed copy of a triple portrait of King Charles I of England, originally painted by Anthony van Dyck in 1636 to help Bernini create a sculpture of the king. The other is a gilt-framed miniature showing Queen Victoria holding her namesake daughter in a Madonna and Child pose.
其中一幅作品是英格兰查理一世国王的三联画肖像仿作，作者不详，仿自1626年安东尼·凡·戴克(Anthony van Dyck)的作品，当时他正协助贝尼尼(Bernini)创作一尊查理一世的雕像。另一幅是带有镀金画框的维多利亚女王的微型画像，她怀中抱着自己的长女，摆出圣母与童年耶稣的姿势。
The castle was one of 14 estates in the region requisitioned by the Army as postwar officers’ clubs. But in 1945, hundreds of the works there, as well as gold and silver heirlooms and a $31 million cache of diamonds, rubies and emeralds, were shipped to the United States by rogue officers with reputed ties to the Chicago mob. Some of those pieces were recovered.
美国陆军征用了这一地区的14栋建筑，作为战后的军人俱乐部，这栋城堡也在其中。1945年，这里收藏的数百件艺术品、金银器皿和一批价值3100万美元的钻石、红宝石和祖母绿被为非作歹的美军运往美国，他们据说同芝加哥黑帮有往来。其中若干物品已被归还。
The two small paintings are being returned by Michael R. Holland, a retired house builder from Montana, who said he found them in the safe deposit box of his aunt, Margaret I. Reeb, after her death. A note in the box from Mrs. Reeb, a member of the Women’s Army Corps who had served in Germany, said she bought them there just after the war.
这两件小画像是由迈克尔·R·霍兰德(Michael R. Holland)归还的，他是蒙大拿一名退休的建筑工人。他说自己是在阿姨玛格丽特·I·里布(Margaret I. Reeb)去世后，在她的银行保险箱里发现的。里布女士是陆军妇女队的成员，曾在德国服役，箱子里有她写的一张纸条，说她是在战后买到这两件艺术品的。
Family lore, Mr. Holland said, has it that Mrs. Reeb, who died in 2005 and was a wartime acquaintance of Eleanor Roosevelt, bought the works from American soldiers who approached her in a Nuremberg hotel for some quick cash.
里布女士于2005年去世，她在战争期间曾和伊莉诺·罗斯福(Eleanor Roosevelt)熟识，霍兰德说，家里人说这些艺术品是她从几个美国士兵手里买来的，他们在纽伦堡的一家酒店和她接头，想用这些艺术品换几个钱花。
“She was a very secretive woman,” Mr. Holland, 67, said of his aunt. “To me it was always kind of iffy.” After the ceremony on Tuesday, he said he was “ecstatic” to be returning them. Donatus Landgraf von Hessen, great-great-grandson of Empress Friedrich, said in a telephone interview that few paintings from the castle have been recovered, and that many are probably in the United States or Russia.
“她是个守口如瓶的女人，”67岁的霍兰德说起自己的阿姨。“我总觉得这有点可疑。”在周二的仪式上，他说能归还这些艺术品让他感到“兴奋”。腓特烈皇后的玄孙多纳图斯·兰德格拉夫·冯·黑森(Donatus Landgraf von Hessen)在接受电话采访时说，从那座城堡被拿走的画几乎都没有得到归还，其中大部分可能流落在美国和俄罗斯。
“Finding these is like a needle in the straw,” he said. “It’s wunderbar, because in wartime winner takes it all, in a way. So it is very honorable of the people to give them back now.”
“寻找这些东西就像大海捞针，”他说。“（这次的归还）真是太好了，因为在某种程度上，战争的胜利者拿走一切。所以这些人能交还这些文物是非常可敬的行为。”
Similarly appreciative remarks were made by the director of the Anhaltische Gemäldegalerie museum in Dessau.
徳绍的格安哈尔特美术馆馆长也同样对此表示赞赏。