WASHINGTON — President Obama, under increasing pressure to demonstrate that the United States is joining European nations in the effort to resettle Syrian refugees, has told his administration to take in at least 10,000 displaced Syrians over the next year.
华盛顿——在日渐加剧的压力下，奥巴马总统需要表明，美国正和欧洲国家联手应对叙利亚难民安置问题，为此他已经对自己的政府提出要求，要在明年接收至少一万名背井离乡的叙利亚人。
Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said in a briefing Thursday that while the administration was continuing to examine responses to a refugee crisis that has overwhelmed Europe in recent days, the president has decided to raise the number of Syrian refugees admitted to at least 10,000 in the fiscal year beginning in October from fewer than 2,000 this year.
白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在周四的一次发布会上说，对于近日这场令欧洲十分狼狈的难民危机，政府仍在考虑对策，但总统已经决定在十月开始的下一个财年里增加接收难民的数量，从今年的不到2000人，增加到至少一万人。
The announcement brought a variety of reactions that underscored how the refugee crisis has become another polarized political question. Aid groups called the administration’s action a token one given the size of the American economy and population, while a number of Republicans warned that Mr. Obama was allowing in potential terrorists. “Our enemy now is Islamic terrorism, and these people are coming from a country filled with Islamic terrorists,” said Representative Peter T. King, Republican of New York. “We don’t want another Boston Marathon bombing situation.”
各方对此反应不一，这表明难民危机已经成为又一个两极化的政治问题。援助组织称，以美国的经济和人口规模，政府这样的行动只是做个样子，而许多共和党人则发出警告，称奥巴马此举可能会引来潜在的恐怖分子。“我们当前的敌人是伊斯兰恐怖主义，这些人来自有大量伊斯兰恐怖分子的国家，”纽约州共和党众议员彼得·T·金(Peter T. King)说。“我们可不想波士顿马拉松爆炸那样的事件重演。”
But Mr. Earnest emphasized that the president would not allow any lessening in the intense background and medical checks that can take as much as two years to complete. Those wishing to come to the United States must apply through the United Nations, which has a presence in many refugee camps, and Mr. Earnest discouraged migrants from taking risky journeys and paying traffickers.
但欧内斯特强调，总统不会允许严格的背景调查和医疗检查有分毫松动，这是个最长耗时两年完成的程序。那些希望来美国的人必须通过联合国提交申请，其工作人员在许多难民营都有驻扎，此外欧内斯特奉劝移民不要选择冒险的途径，付钱给蛇头。
“Refugees go through the most robust security process of anybody who’s contemplating travel to the United States,” Mr. Earnest said. “Refugees have to be screened by the National Counter Terrorism Center, by the F.B.I. Terrorist Screening Center. They go through databases that are maintained by D.H.S., the Department of Defense and the intelligence community. There is biographical and biometric information that is collected about these individuals.”
“任何打算到美国来的人都要通过最严密的安全程序，难民也不例外，”欧内斯特说。“难民必须接受国家反恐中心(National Counterterrorism Center)和联邦调查局恐怖分子甄别中心(FBI Terrorist Screening Center)的筛查。他们要进入国土安全部(DHS)、国防部和情报部门维护的数据库。上述部门会收集这些人的个人经历和生物计量信息。”
The United States once offered refuge to tens of thousands at a time. In 1979, it provided sanctuary to 111,000 Vietnamese refugees and in 1980 almost doubled that number to 207,000. Around the same time, the United States took in more than 120,000 Cuban refugees during the Mariel boatlift, including more than 80,000 in one month alone.
美国曾经有过一次接纳数十万难民的时候。1979年，美国为11.1万越南难民提供庇护，这个数字在1980年几乎翻倍，达到20.7万。同样在那段时期的马里埃尔偷渡事件中，美国还接收了超过12万名古巴难民，一度在一个月内接收逾八万人。
But after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, the number of refugees allowed into the United States slowed sharply, dropping to 27,131 in 2002. The numbers have risen steadily since then and last year amounted to 69,987 — just below a cap of 70,000. Most refugees need at least a year and sometimes two to navigate the system.
但在2001年9月11日的袭击事件后，被准许入境的难民数量锐减，到2002年降至27,131人。这个数字此后稳步回升，去年达到69,987人——几乎到达七万人的上限。多数人要走至少一年的程序，有的要两年。
For refugees fleeing war or fearing for their lives, the United States can no longer provide anything approaching immediate sanctuary, said Sarah Margon, the Washington director of Human Rights Watch. “The system is just too bogged down in bureaucratic impediments,” she said.
人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)华盛顿总监莎拉·玛尔根(Sarah Margon)说，对于那些躲避战乱或有生命之虞的难民，美国已经不再提供任何能即时产生庇护效果的政策。“整个制度已经被官僚主义障碍牢牢困住，”她说。
Germany has talked about taking more than 800,000 Syrian refugees, thousands of whom have already flooded train and bus stations throughout Europe. Even Venezuela has promised to take 20,000 refugees.
德国已经表示要接收80万叙利亚难民，其中有数万人已经挤满了欧洲各地的火车和汽车站。连委内瑞拉都承诺接收两万名难民。
“Ten thousand is just an embarrassingly low number given the scale of this crisis and that the U.S. has long been a global leader in resettlement,” said Eleanor Acer of Human Rights First, a New York-based nonprofit.
“考虑到这场危机的规模，以及美国长期以来在难民安置方面领先全球的表现，只收一万人是很丢脸的，”纽约非盈利机构人权第一组织(Human Rights First)的埃莉诺·埃瑟(Eleanor Acer)说。
Earlier Thursday, Secretary of State John Kerry said at a closed-door meeting on Capitol Hill that the total number of refugees taken in by the United States could rise to more than 100,000, from the current figure of 70,000. State Department officials said that not all of the additional 30,000 would be Syrians, but many would be. But Mr. Earnest said that members of Congress “misunderstood” Mr. Kerry, and that the number of refugees would not rise to 100,000 next year but might in later years.
周四早些时候，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在国会山的一次闭门会议中说，美国接收难民总数也许会从目前的七万增加到十万以上。国务院官员说，多出来的这三万人不一定都来自叙利亚，但相当一部分会是。但欧内斯特说，国会议员“曲解”了克里，难民数不会在明年升至十万，而是会在今后几年。