CAMP DAVID, Md. — President Obama on Thursday offered Saudi Arabia and smaller states in the Arab world new defenses against potential missile attacks and maritime and cyberthreats from Iran, an effort to allay their fears that a nuclear accord with Tehran will empower their main rival in the Middle East.
马里兰州戴维营——奥巴马总统在周四称，为应对伊朗可能开展的导弹袭击和海上、网络威胁，美国将向沙特阿拉伯和一些阿拉伯小国提供新的保护，此举旨在消除这些国家的顾虑，它们担心美国与伊朗达成核协议会助长这个中东地区头号敌人的势力。
But in a daylong meeting here, Mr. Obama stopped short of offering a formal defense pact that would obligate the United States to come to the nations’ aid if they were attacked. Instead, he tried to reassure them that he was committed to their security and willing to help them counter Iran. The Saudis and other Arab nations in the Gulf Cooperation Council say that lifting oil and financial sanctions, as called for in the nuclear deal, will allow Iran to expand its influence from Iraq to Syria to Yemen.
但在长达一天的会议中，奥巴马没有提出正式的防御协定，这种协定会使美国有义务在一些国家受到攻击时施援。奥巴马努力安抚他们，称他致力于保护他们的安全，愿意帮助他们对抗伊朗。沙特阿拉伯和海湾合作委员会（Gulf Cooperation Council，简称GCC）中的其他阿拉伯国家表示，核协议涉及解除石油及金融制裁的内容，这会使得伊朗能够将影响力从伊拉克扩展至叙利亚乃至也门。
Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Mr. Obama said that he had been “very explicit that the United States will stand by our G.C.C. partners against external attacks,” adding, “We want to make sure that this is not just a photo op but a concrete series of steps.”
奥巴马在会议结束后对记者说，他“一直明确表示美国会支持我们的GCC伙伴，对抗外部攻击”。他还表示，“我们希望确保这不只是在摆姿态，要有一些具体举措。”
In a series of meetings and at a working lunch on Thursday, Mr. Obama and members of his Cabinet — including Secretary of State John Kerry and Energy Secretary Ernest J. Moniz, the lead negotiators with Iran — gave the leaders and representatives of the council a detailed briefing about the status of the Iran nuclear negotiations that have caused so much concern in their nations.
周四，奥巴马和内阁成员——包括国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和能源部长欧内斯特·J·莫尼斯(Ernest J. Moniz)等伊朗谈判的主要谈判代表——向GCC的领导人及代表们详细介绍了伊朗核谈判的进展情况，伊朗核谈判在这些国家引发大量担忧。
The administration argued that the deal, if completed by June 30, would ultimately make them and the region safer by preventing Iran from being able to create a nuclear weapon in the next 10 to 15 years. After that, many of the restrictions on Iran would be lifted entirely, one of the main reasons Arab leaders have objected to the deal.
奥巴马政府辩称，该协议——如果在6月30前达成——最终会阻止伊朗在未来10到15年里制造核武器，使它们及该地区更加安全。在那之后，很多针对伊朗的限制会被完全解除，这是阿拉伯国家领导人反对该协议的主要原因之一。
Mr. Obama also outlined what a senior official called an “extensive program” of military cooperation between the United States and gulf Nations, including assistance with a regional program to defend against Iranian missiles, increased collaboration on maritime security, and more joint training exercises.
奥巴马还简要介绍了一名高级官员所说的一项美国与海湾国家军事合作“大规模计划”，包括协助完成防御伊朗导弹的地区项目，加强海上安全合作，开展更多的联合演习。
Aides said the joint statement agreed upon by Mr. Obama and the gulf officials, expected to be released later today, would address the risk that a nuclear deal with Iran could lead Saudi Arabia or other nations in the region to seek enhanced nuclear capabilities of their own. The Saudis have said they will match whatever nuclear enrichment capability Iran is allowed to keep under the agreement. That has raised fear of an “enrichment race” that could ultimately lead to an arms race.
助手们表示，奥巴马和海湾国家官员达成的联合声明将会在今天晚些时候发布，该声明是要确保美国与伊朗达成核协议不会导致沙特阿拉伯或该地的其他国家寻求核能力提升。沙特阿拉伯人表示，不管该协议会允许伊朗保留何种核浓缩能力，他们都会努力获得同等的能力。这种表态促使人们担心会出现“铀浓缩竞赛”，最终引发军备竞赛。
“There will be no need to see the type of regional arms race that would make an already volatile part of the world that much more unstable and insecure,” Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, told reporters.
副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J.Rhodes)表示，“那种让一个本就动荡不安的地区变得更不稳定、更不安全的地区军备竞赛，是没有必要的。”
“We’re really looking at what we can do to expedite the provision of support and capacity-building to the G.C.C. in areas like ballistic missile defense, maritime security, special operations, counterterrorism capacity, border security,” Mr. Rhodes said, using the acronym for the organization which consists of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
罗兹还表示，“我们正在考虑能采取何种举措来加快在弹道导弹防御、海上安全、特别行动、反恐能力、边境安全等领域，为GCC提供支持和能力建设的步伐。”GCC是沙特阿拉伯和海湾合作委员会的缩写，该委员会成员包括巴林、科威特、阿曼、卡塔尔、沙特阿拉伯，以及阿拉伯联合酋长国。
“These are the types of capabilities that I think are directly relevant to the threats across the region, to include not just destabilizing activities from Iran, but also terrorist groups like ISIL,” Mr. Rhodes said, using an alternate acronym for the Islamic State.
“我认为，这些类型的力量与该地区的威胁直接相关——不仅包括来自伊朗的，而且还包括来自ISIL等恐怖组织的破坏稳定的活动，”罗兹表示，这里用的是伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL）的另一个缩写。
But even before the meeting started at Camp David, it had fallen short of the expectations of allies like Saudi Arabia, which had sought a formal treaty outlining new United States defense commitments; American officials said no such commitments would materialize.
但是，戴维营(Camp David)会议还没开始，沙特阿拉伯等盟友已经对此表现出了不满——这些盟友希望能签署一项正式条约，对新的美国防御承诺做出概述；美国官员称，这些承诺是不会具体化的。
Instead, Mr. Obama is widely expected to issue a presidential statement, which is not as binding as a mutual defense treaty and would not necessarily obligate a future president.
不过，人们广泛认为奥巴马将发布一项总统声明，它的约束力比不上共同防御条约，并且未来的总统也没义务去贯彻。
The roster reflects the dampened expectations for the gathering, with only two of the six gulf nations sending their top leaders. The absence of King Salman of Saudi Arabia has attracted particular attention, coming at a time when his majority Sunni country’s leaders are increasingly uneasy about the prospect of a nuclear deal with a Shiite-led Iran, which they fear would free Tehran to further exert its influence in the region.
与会者名单反映了人们对此次集会的期望值不高，六个海湾国家中只有两个派出了他们的最高领导人。沙特国王萨勒曼(Salman)的缺席引起了人们的特别关注，因为此时在以逊尼派为主的沙特，领导人正日益担心国际社会将与由什叶派领导的伊朗达成核协议——他们担心该协议将使德黑兰能无拘无束地在该地区进一步发挥影响力。
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Nayef, the Saudi interior minister, and Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the defense minister, who met with Mr. Obama in the Oval Office on Wednesday, are attending the summit meeting instead.
周三在椭圆形办公室会见奥巴马的沙特内政部长、王储穆罕默德·本·纳伊夫(Mohammed bin Nayef)和国防部长、副王储默哈迈德·本·萨勒曼(Mohammed bin Salman)出席了此次峰会。
During the summit meeting’s opening session, Mr. Kerry, Mr. Moniz and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew were on hand to provide a detailed briefing about the nuclear talks to the gulf leaders, all designed to convince them that any deal would contain strict limits on Iran’s nuclear activities that would block Tehran from acquiring a weapon.
峰会开幕期间，克里、莫尼斯和财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)到场就核谈判向海湾国家领导人做了详细报告，这些内容的目的都是说服他们，所有协议都将包含对伊朗核活动的严格限制，而这将阻止德黑兰获得核武器。
The leaders also were discussing a range of challenges throughout the Middle East, including confronting the Islamic State and conflicts in Yemen, Syria and Libya.
各国领导人还就中东地区的一系列挑战进行了讨论，其中包括对抗伊斯兰国，以及应对也门、叙利亚和利比亚的冲突。
King Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa of Bahrain skipped the meeting for a high-society horse show at Windsor Castle with Queen Elizabeth II of Britain.
巴林国王哈马德·本·伊萨·阿勒哈利法(Hamad bin Isa al-Khalifa)没有出席，而选择在温莎城堡与英国女王伊丽莎白二世(Queen Elizabeth II)一同参加一个上流社会的马展。
And for all the expected talk of close ties and historical alliances, at the White House on Wednesday, Mr. Obama named the wrong Saudi king as he invoked the long tradition of friendship between Washington and Riyadh.
周三，奥巴马在白宫谈了沙特与美国的密切关系与结盟的历史，这些都在意料之中，但在谈到华盛顿与利雅得的长期友谊时，他把当时的沙特国王的名字说错了。
“The United States and Saudi Arabia have an extraordinary friendship and relationship that dates back to Franklin Roosevelt and King Faisal,” Mr. Obama said in the Oval Office meeting on Wednesday.
奥巴马周三在椭圆形办公室的会议上说，“早在富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)和费萨尔国王(King Faisal)时代，美国和沙特阿拉伯就建立了非同寻常的友谊和关系。”
King Faisal bin Abdul Aziz ruled from 1964 to 1975, when he was assassinated. Roosevelt died in 1945. Mr. Obama almost certainly meant to refer to King Abdul Aziz bin Saud, Faisal’s father, who famously met with the American president after the Yalta conference in February 1945, just months before Roosevelt’s death.
费萨尔·本·阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹国王(King Faisal bin Abdul Aziz)的在位时间是1964年到1975年，于1975年被人刺杀。奥巴马想说的肯定是费萨尔国王的父亲阿卜杜勒·阿齐兹·本·沙特国王(King Abdul Aziz bin Saud)。1945年2月的雅尔塔会议之后，他曾与罗斯福会面，罗斯福于数月之后去世。