WASHINGTON — The impasse over the nation’s finances appeared closer to a short-term resolution on Friday as President Obama and Congressional Republicans showed greater flexibility but headed into the weekend without a deal to reopen the government and raise the debt ceiling.
华盛顿——周五，奥巴马总统和国会共和党人表现出了更大的灵活性，美国似乎离达成短期方案解决财政僵局近了一步，但双方仍未能在周末之前达成重启政府并提高债务上限的协议。
While the outlines of an agreement that would involve a temporary fix followed by longer-term budget talks came into view, the president and lawmakers faced the challenge of framing such a deal in a way that they could all accept politically.
一方面，这样一份协议的大概内容已变得颇为清楚，亦即政府债务得到暂时解决，双方随后就长期预算问题进行谈判，另一方面，总统和国会议员还面临一个挑战，需要将协议组织成双方都能在政治上接受的样式。
“We’re obviously in a better place than we were a few days ago in terms of the constructive approach that we’ve seen of late,” Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said late in the day after the president met with the entire Senate Republican conference and consulted by telephone with Representative John A. Boehner, the Republican speaker of the House. “But there’s not an agreement.”
总统和参议院全体共和党人会面，并通过电话和众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)进行了商谈。在此之后，当天晚些时候，白宫新闻秘书杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)说，“就最近看到的这种建设性方式而言，和几天前相比，我们所处的形势明显有所好转。不过，目前还没有达成协议。”
Both houses of Congress were scheduled to meet over the weekend. But White House officials and senior lawmakers cautioned against expecting a quick deal, although much of the incendiary rhetoric that has characterized the fiscal fight had given way to words like “constructive” and “progress.”
按照计划，国会两院都将在本周末举行会议。但一些白宫官员和资深议员警告称，协议不会很快出炉，尽管充斥此次财政之争的许多煽动性措辞都已被诸如“建设性”和“进展”之类的词语取代。
Republicans in the Senate emerged from a 90-minute meeting with Mr. Obama at the White House with a collective sense of tempered hope. A coalition of Republicans, many of them centrists from independent-leaning states who have been openly critical of the aggressive posture of their House colleagues, was trying to find room to maneuver in a very tight space.
同奥巴马在白宫进行了90分钟会晤之后，参议院共和党人都开始抱有谨慎的希望。一个由共和党人组成的联盟正在一个相当狭小的空间内努力寻找周旋的余地，联盟中的很多人都是来自中立各州的中间派议员，他们一直在颇为公开地批评众议院同僚的好斗姿态。
Democrats, led by Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, have repeatedly said they will not negotiate over reopening the government or raising the debt ceiling. But privately, a growing number of them said they have come to the realization that to insist on giving nothing to Republicans at all is a bargaining position they may be unable to maintain.
由参议院多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)领导的民主党人曾反复表示，他们不会就重启政府或者提高债务上限进行谈判。然而，私底下，他们当中越来越多的人表示，他们已经意识到，坚持不向共和党人做任何妥协，可能是一种无法维持的谈判立场。
What they give and how a compromise could be structured so it allows the president and Democratic leaders to say credibly that they have not reversed their hard-line position is unclear. White House officials said the president would be willing to sign a short-term increase in the debt ceiling and then negotiate on larger budget issues, but not if the two were explicitly linked.
目前尚不清楚他们将做出怎样的妥协，也不清楚怎样的妥协方式才能让总统和民主党领袖可以令人信服地宣称，自己并没有改变强硬立场。白宫官员称，总统愿意签署一份短期提高债务上限的协议，然后就更大的预算事宜进行协商，但是，如果协议将两者明确地关联在一起，总统将不会签署。
Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, one of a handful of Republicans who often reaches across the aisle, said Mr. Obama told them he would be willing to “trade” something in exchange for their cooperation.
阿拉斯加州参议员莉萨·穆尔科斯基(Lisa Murkowski)是经常支持民主党的为数不多的共和党人之一。她称，奥巴马对他们说，他愿意拿些东西来“做交易”，换取他们的合作。
“He said ‘space for trading,’ ” Ms. Murkowski said. “So apparently we are not talking about negotiation, we’re talking about some trading space.”
“他说到了‘交易的空间，’”穆尔科斯基说。“那么，显而易见，我们讨论的不是谈判，而是某种交易空间。”
But among some Democrats, especially Mr. Reid, there was a growing concern that the White House would be willing to bargain away too much — a sense, as one senior Democratic aide put it, that history was repeating itself. Many liberals were angry after the White House cut budget and tax deals in the past that they felt gave in too much to conservative demands, most recently over the fiscal cliff talks late last year that resulted in higher taxes on the wealthy but not as high as some would have liked.
但是，以里德为首的一些民主党人越来越担心，白宫会愿意做出过大的妥协。正如一名资深民主党助手所说，这是一种历史重演的感觉。过去，白宫削减预算和税收的举措也曾让很多自由主义者感到愤怒，他们觉得，为了满足保守派的要求，白宫做出了太多让步。最近的一次是去年年底有关财政悬崖的谈判，他们之所以感到愤怒，是因为政府对富人征税的增幅没有达到一些人的期望。
White House officials said their allies need not worry. Confident that he had the upper hand politically, Mr. Obama met with or talked by phone with business leaders and state governors to enlist them to lobby Congress to avoid a default. Aides said he was holding firm against any deal that included specific concessions sought by Republicans, particularly involving his signature health care program.
白宫官员表示，盟友们不必担心。奥巴马相信自己在政治上占到了优势，与一些商界领袖和州长见了面或是通了电话，请求他们帮助游说国会，以避免违约。助手们表示，奥巴马坚决反对达成任何涉及共和党人寻求的具体让步的协议，特别是涉及他标志性医保计划的让步。
“It is our view that we cannot have a situation where the debt ceiling is extended as part of a budget negotiation for only six weeks, which would put us right back in the same position that we’re in now,” Mr. Carney said. But “he has seen indications from Republicans in both the Senate and the House in the last 24 hours that they too are interested in engaging in serious budget negotiations” if the government is first reopened and the borrowing limit raised.
“我们认为，我们不能接受这样的情况，即仅将债务上限期限延期六周，以此作为预算案谈判的一部分，这会使我们回到现在的处境，”卡尼说，但是，“奥巴马在过去24个小时里看到了参众两院共和党人发出的信号，表明他们也有意参与有关预算案的重要谈判”，前提是要让政府重新开始运行，提高举债上限。
Mr. Reid has put in motion a process for the Senate to begin voting on Saturday on a Democratic plan to raise the debt limit through the end of 2014, a move designed to pressure Republicans to avert what could be a devastating default after the government reaches the current borrowing limit on Oct. 17.
里德已经启动进程，推动参议院于周六开始就民主党的一项计划投票，内容是提高债务上限至2014年底，此举旨在向共和党人施压，避免因政府在10月17日达到目前举债上限而来的潜在灾难性后果。
A new poll from NBC News and The Wall Street Journal highlighted the peril for Republicans, showing that they have shouldered a far larger share of the blame for the government shutdown than Mr. Obama. Just 24 percent of Americans viewed the Republican Party favorably, an all-time low in the survey.
NBC新闻频道(NBC News)和《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)的新民调突显了共和党人面临的危险。民调显示，人们认为，共和党人对政府停摆的责任远大于奥巴马。共和党在美国人中的支持率只有24%，降至该项调查的历史最低点。
Republican lawmakers and aides repeatedly brought up the poll on Friday. “The reality is we are, in the eyes of the American people, in very bad shape,” said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. “You can’t argue with those polls.”
周五，共和党议员及助手们多次提到此次民调。“事实是，美国人觉得我们非常差劲，” 亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)说。“面对这些民调，你没有争辩的余地。”
To the dismay of conservatives, discussions about including revisions to Mr. Obama’s health care program have been dropped from most serious negotiations. An e-mail plea from the group Tea Party Express summed up their frustration on Friday. “Are you like us and wondering where the fight against Obamacare went?” it asked.
让保守派失望的是，一些最重要的谈判已经剔除了有关修改奥巴马医改计划的讨论。茶党快车(Tea Party Express)周五通过电子邮件发出的呼吁就体现了这种失望情绪。邮件写道，“你是否跟我们一样，想知道反对奥巴马医改(Obamacare)的斗争到哪里去了？”
Senate Republicans have insisted on dropping efforts to dismantle the law. At a lunch meeting in the Capitol earlier this week, Mr. McCain asked the roomful of Republican senators if any still thought reversing parts of the program was an achievable goal now, according to a person briefed on the meeting. No one raised a hand, not even Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, the public face of the conservative push in Congress to repeal the law.
参议院共和党人坚持放弃废除医改法的努力。据一名知情人士透露，本周早些时候在国会(Capitol)参加午餐会时，麦凯恩向满屋的共和党参议员询问，是否有人仍然认为，修改医改计划是一个可以完成的目标。没人举手，连德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)也没有举手，尽管他是主张废除医改法的国会保守势力的代表。