Voters in 12 states go to the polls on Tuesday as Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton, who have had the most success in the early nominating contests, look to extend their delegate leads over their nearest rivals. Here are some of the things we will be watching.
随着在早期提名竞选中最成功的唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)和希拉里·克林顿(Hilary Clinton)期望拉大与自己最接近的竞争对手所获得的本党代表人数，12个州的选民在周二投票。下面是一些我们将密切关注的事情。
Trump’s America
特普朗的美国
Know what you usually call a presidential candidate who wins a swath of states ranging from liberal Vermont and Massachusetts to conservative Oklahoma and Alabama, including a centrist bellwether like Virginia? The nominee.
知道人们通常如何称呼一位赢得了好几个州，从自由的佛蒙特州和马萨诸塞州、到保守的俄克拉何马州和阿拉巴马州、还有弗吉尼亚州这样的中间派代表的总统候选人吗？总统提名候选人。
Super Tuesday offers Mr. Trump an opportunity to send a resounding message about the depth and breadth of his support. His string of recent victories — in New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada — suggests his anti-establishment message has wide appeal. And while he might not be able to overtake Senator Ted Cruz in his home state, Texas, were Mr. Trump to sweep the remaining 10 states, winning in nearly every region of the country on a single day, there would be little doubt he is positioned to become the Republican standard-bearer.
超级星期二将给特朗普提供一个机会，让他就选民对自己的支持有多深多广发出一个响亮的信号。他最近在新罕布什尔州、南卡罗来纳州以及内华达州的一系列胜利表明，他的反正统言论具有广泛的吸引力。虽然他可能无法在参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)的家乡得克萨斯州胜选，但如果特朗普横扫了余下的10个州、在一天中在全国几乎每个地区获胜的话，他几乎将无可置疑地获取共和党领袖的地位。
Mr. Trump has begun to render obsolete the defining divisions of region, religion and ideology that have characterized recent Republican presidential primaries. If he can do so on a wider map — winning evangelical conservatives in the rural South and secular moderates in the urban Northeast — he will demonstrate that he is leading a realignment and creating something new: a Trump coalition.
特朗普已开始让地域、宗教和意识形态所界定的分歧失去意义，而这些分歧曾是最近几次共和党总统初选的特征。如果他能在更大的版图上做到这一点，在福音派基督徒占多数的保守的南方农业州，和世俗温和派为主的东北部城市地区获胜的话，他将证明他正在引领一场改组，也创造了一件新鲜事：一个特朗普联盟。
Clinton and Black Voters
希拉里与黑人选民
Mrs. Clinton is poised to sweep the South, but her margin of victory depends on how well she does among black voters.
虽然希拉里有望在南方各州获胜，但她获胜的幅度将取决于她在黑人选民中的得票率。
Mrs. Clinton won 87 percent of the black vote in South Carolina — a larger share than President Obama won in the 2008 primary — helping her win the state in a landslide, 73 percent to 26 percent for Senator Bernie Sanders.
希拉里在南卡罗来纳州赢得了87％的黑人选票，比现任美国总统奥巴马2008年在该州得到的黑人选票率还高，这帮助希拉里在该州初选中占据绝对优势，获得了73％的选票，而参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)只获得了26％的选票。
If Mrs. Clinton were to repeat that performance on Tuesday, she could post similar victories in states like Georgia and Alabama. She could top 60 percent of the vote in other Southern states with large black populations, like Virginia, Texas, Tennessee and Arkansas.
如果希拉里能在周二重复这种表现的话，她将会在像佐治亚和阿拉巴马这样的州获得类似的胜利。她可能会在拥有大量黑人选民的其他南方各州，比如弗吉尼亚、得克萨斯、田纳西和阿肯色，获得高达60％的选票。
The margin matters, and for more than just appearances: Democrats allocate all delegates proportionally, so Mrs. Clinton will be rewarded if she maximizes her support among black voters.
获胜幅度事关紧要，不仅是在外表：民主党按照得票率分配代表名额，因此，如果希拉里能把她在黑人选民中的支持率最大化的话，她将得到回报。
The Race Within a Race
竞选之中的竞选
Mr. Trump is favored on Tuesday in every state except Texas, but the battle between Mr. Cruz and Senator Marco Rubio for second place is an important one. If one of the freshman senators were to emerge as a decisive runner-up, he could make the case that the other should exit the race to give the party a better chance at stopping Mr. Trump.
周二，特朗普有望在除了得克萨斯州之外的每个州获胜，但克鲁兹与参议员马可·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)之间竞争第二名的斗争也很重要。如果这两位几年前当选的首任参议员之一能够以决定性的第二名出线的话，他会有理由提出让其他侯选人退出竞选，以给共和党一个更好的机会来阻止特朗普成为提名人。
But the results might not lend themselves to such a clean outcome. Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio could trade second-place finishes across the map. And even if Mr. Rubio were to capture second place in all 11 states, Mr. Cruz could still win Texas outright and hold that victory up to argue that, as the only other candidate to beat Mr. Trump and win a state, he has every justification to go forward.
但投票结果也许不会提供这样明朗的结局。克鲁兹和卢比奥可能在不同的州交替获得第二名的选票数。即使卢比奥能在所有11个州中获得第二名，克鲁兹仍可能以绝对优势赢得德克萨斯州，并用这一胜利来争辩，自己作为唯一一名击败过特朗普、赢得了一个州的候选人，他有所有的理由继续竞选。
But after emphasizing the importance of March 1 to his campaign, and investing so much in winning support from evangelicals, Mr. Cruz would be in a rough spot if he were to finish behind Mr. Rubio in such Bible Belt states as Alabama, Oklahoma and Tennessee.
但是，克鲁兹在对其竞选队伍强调了3月1日的重要性，并为赢得福音派基督徒的支持投入了如此之多的资源后，如果他在阿拉巴马、俄克拉荷马和田纳西这些圣经带州中获得的选票数落后于卢比奥的话，克鲁兹将会处于极为不利的地位。
Texas, Rich in Delegates and Symbolism
德克萨斯州，代表人数众多、意义重大
With 155 delegates, the Lone Star State is the big enchilada (or, keeping with current Texas trends, the big breakfast taco) of Super Tuesday. But even more important, it is a crucial test for Mr. Cruz, who would face intense pressure to withdraw from the race if he were to lose.
拥有155名代表的“孤星州”（Lone Star State，德州昵称）是超级星期二的首要州。但更重要的是，德州对克鲁兹是一次关键的检验，如果他不能胜选的话，他将面临着退出竞选的巨大压力。
And the Texas prize for Mr. Trump is found as much in its symbolism as in its delegate distribution. Not only is the deep-red state a citadel of the national Republican Party, but it is also home to George W. Bush, Rick Perry and Mr. Cruz.
赢得德州的奖励对特朗普来说，其象征意义不亚于其提供的代表人数。这个深红色州不仅是美国共和党的堡垒，也是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)、里克·佩里(Rick Perry)，以及克鲁兹的老家。
They may be the three most influential Texas Republicans of recent vintage — and Mr. Trump has viciously attacked each of them. If he can do that and still win there, there will be little doubt about whose Republican Party this is now, in Texas and beyond.
这三人可能是近年来最具影响力的德州共和党人，特朗普一直在恶毒攻击他们中的每一位。如果他既能这样做，又仍能在德州获胜的话，共和党属于谁这个问题，在德州乃至其他地方几乎是毫无疑问了。
Super Tuesday Delegate Math
超级星期二代表形势分析
Even a Trump sweep would not necessarily allow him to amass a majority of all the delegates in play, since party rules prevent states from apportioning their delegates on a winner-take-all basis. But there is one number that could let Mr. Trump run up the score: 20 percent.
特朗普即使横扫了这些州，也未必能在全部代表中赢得多数，因为党规所限，各州不会以赢家通吃的方式分配代表。但有一个数字，特朗普达到它后就能得分：20%。
Candidates must reach that percentage of the vote in Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, Texas and Vermont to be allocated any delegates in those states. The delegates they forfeit by not clearing the threshold will go to the candidates who do.
在阿拉巴马州、乔治亚州、田纳西州、德克萨斯州和佛蒙特州，候选人必须获得选票中的20%，才能在这些州分配到代表。没有达到这个门槛的候选人获得的代表数，将被划给那些达到了门槛的候选人。
That poses a real danger for both Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio: Polls in all five of those states show at least one of them in danger of missing the delegate threshold.
这让克鲁兹和卢比奥面临着一个切实的危险：民意调查显示，在所有这五个州中，他俩至少有一个有可能达不到门槛。
If both Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio can breach the threshold in every state, they will almost certainly prevent Mr. Trump from earning a majority of delegates. But if they fall short, Mr. Trump could extend his lead to more than 165: the number of delegates at stake in the winner-take-all contests of Ohio and Florida, which hold primaries on March 15.
如果克鲁兹和卢比奥都可以在所有州达到门槛，差不多就肯定能阻止特朗普赢得多数代表。但如果他们达不到，特朗普就会把领先优势扩大到165以上：在俄亥俄州和佛罗里达州那种赢家通吃的比拼中，这个代表数目利害攸关。这两个州将在3月15日举行初选。
Can Sanders Win a Landslide?
桑德斯能取得压倒性胜利吗？
Mrs. Clinton’s strength in the South, particularly among black voters, places a big burden on Mr. Sanders, who needs more than a few narrow, feel-good wins to make up for getting crushed in the nation’s most populous region.
希拉里在南方的实力，特别是在黑人选民中的号召力，给桑德斯带来了沉重的负担。仅靠一个优势微弱、自我感觉良好的胜利，无法帮助他弥补在全国人口最多的地区的失败。
Based on the makeup of the Democratic electorate, Mr. Sanders needs to outperform Mrs. Clinton among nonblack voters by a significant margin to counter her success in attracting black voters. So far, Mr. Sanders hasn’t been able to do that anywhere outside western New Hampshire, a liberal, overwhelmingly white region that borders his home state, Vermont.
从民主党的选民构成来看，桑德斯需要在非黑人选民中以显著优势战胜克林顿，才能抵消她在吸引黑人选民方面的成功。迄今为止，桑德斯一直没有能够做到这一点，只有新罕布什尔州西部是个例外。该区域与他的家乡佛蒙特州接壤，自由派白人在人口中占绝大多数。
Mr. Sanders has a few good options on Tuesday: Massachusetts, Colorado and Minnesota are three states with few black voters and large numbers of white liberals. And Colorado and Minnesota hold caucuses, which tend to attract disproportionally liberal electorates.
桑德斯在星期二的形势有几个不错的亮点：马萨诸塞、科罗拉多和明尼苏达这三个州的自由派白人数量庞大，黑人选民很少。而科罗拉多州和明尼苏达州会召开预选会，这有望吸引格外多的自由派选民。
If he can’t win these states in landslide fashion, it will be hard to chart a plausible way for Mr. Sanders to overcome his weakness in the South and earn a majority of delegates.
如果桑德斯不能在这些州取得压倒性的胜利，你就难以想见他将如何弥补在南方的失利，赢得多数代表了。