WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — When a pack of whip-thin girls zipped across the finish of the 1,600-meter race at a recent track meet here, the smallest runner’s legs wobbled like rubber, and she flopped into her waiting coach’s arms. She collapses every time she races.
北卡罗来纳州温斯顿-塞勒姆——近期在这里举办的一场径赛中，一群纤瘦的女孩飕飕地越过1600米比赛的终点线。其中个头最小的运动员双腿像橡胶一样抖动，然后猛地倒在等候在那里的教练的怀中。每次比赛，她都会瘫倒。
Kayla Montgomery, 18, was found to have multiple sclerosis three years ago. Defying most logic, she has gone on to become one of the fastest young distance runners in the country — one who cannot stay on her feet after crossing the finish line.
18岁的凯拉·蒙哥马利(Kayla Montgomery)三年前被诊断患有多发性硬化症。违反大多数逻辑的是，她继续跑步，并且成为了全美跑得最快的青少年中长跑运动员——一名越过终点线后，不能站稳的运动员。
Because M.S. blocks nerve signals from Montgomery’s legs to her brain, particularly as her body temperature increases, she can move at steady speeds that cause other runners pain she cannot sense, creating the peculiar circumstance in which the symptoms of a disease might confer an athletic advantage.
多发性硬化会阻止蒙哥马利的双腿向脑部传输神经信号，尤其是在体温上升的时候，因此，她能保持住导致其他运动员疼痛的高速，自己却感受不到这种痛苦。这造成了一种特殊的现象：疾病的症状竟会带来竞技上的优势。
But intense exercise can also trigger weakness and instability; as Montgomery goes numb in races, she can continue moving forward as if on autopilot, but any disruption, like stopping, makes her lose control.
不过，高强度的训练也可能引发身体的虚弱和不稳定。在跑步过程中失去知觉的时候，她可以像自动驾驶一样继续前进，但一旦有任何干扰，比如停下来，就会让她失控。
“When I finish, it feels like there’s nothing underneath me,” Montgomery said. “I start out feeling normal and then my legs gradually go numb. I’ve trained myself to think about other things while I race, to get through. But when I break the motion, I can’t control them and I fall.”
“冲线后，我感觉就像是脚下空了，”蒙哥马利说。“我开始的时候感觉正常，然后双脚逐渐失去知觉。通过训练，我已经可以在比赛中想别的事情，熬过这段时间。可是一旦打断运动，我就不能控制双腿，然后就摔倒了。”
Last month, Montgomery, a senior at Mount Tabor High School, won the North Carolina state title in the 3,200 meters. Her time of 10 minutes 43 seconds ranks her 21st in the country. Her next major competition is the 5,000 meters at the national indoor track championships in New York on March 14, when she hopes to break 17 minutes.
上个月，在大博尔山高中(Mount Tabor High School)读最后一年的蒙哥马利赢得了北卡罗来纳3200米跑比赛的州冠军。她用时10分43秒，在全国排第21名。下次重大比赛是3月14号在纽约举行的全美室内田径锦标赛。她将参加5000米的角逐，希望能跑进17分钟以内。
Her trajectory as a distance runner has been unusually ascendant.
她的中长跑生涯非比寻常地呈现上升势头。
“When she was diagnosed, she said to me, ‘Coach, I don’t know how much time I have left, so I want to run fast — don’t hold back,’ ” said Patrick Cromwell, Montgomery’s coach. “That’s when I said, ‘Wow, who are you?’ ”
“在确诊后，她对我说，‘教练，我不知道自己还剩下多少时间，所以我想跑得很快——不要保留，’”蒙哥马利的教练帕特里克·克伦威尔(Patrick Cromwell)说。“当时我就说，‘哇，这人是谁？’”
At the time, Montgomery was one of the slowest on her team, completing her first 5-kilometer race in 24:29; by last November, she had run a 17:22, placing 11th in the regional qualifier for the Foot Locker national cross-country championships.
那个时候，蒙哥马利属于队里跑得最慢的人之一，首次参加5000米比赛的成绩是24分29秒。去年11月，她跑出了17分22秒，在Foot Locker冠名的全美越野锦标赛的地区选拔赛上名列第11。
Because Montgomery has played down her condition, few people understand her unusual racing finishes. In the national indoor 5,000-meter championship last year, officials forgot to catch her and she fell on her face, lying prostrate on the track until someone carried her away. Announcers speculated that she had a seizure. Some assume she is fainting. Others, she said, have simply called her a wimp.
由于蒙哥马利淡化了自己的病情，很少有人明白她与众不同的冲线表现是怎么回事。在去年的全美室内锦标赛的5000米角逐中，官员们忘记了接住她，结果她迎面倒下，趴在了赛道上，直到有人把她抱走。播报员猜测，她抽搐了。还有人以为她晕倒了。她说，另有些人干脆叫她窝囊废。
She dismisses the attention.
她不喜欢被关注。
“I didn’t want to be treated differently, and I didn’t want to be looked at differently,” she said.
“我不想被区别对待，我不想接受异样的眼光，”她说。
The numbness is particularly dire for midrace falls. At her state cross-country meet last year, she clipped the heel of a fellow runner in the lead pack and crashed. Facedown with her legs splayed, she could not get up. Runners sprinted by, and she slipped from all-state contention. Seeing a rival pass was enough to get her to use a nearby fence to pull herself up and cruise into 10th place.
赛中跌倒的话，这种失去知觉的情况尤为可怕。在去年的州级越野赛中，蒙哥马利碰到了同处于领先集团一名参赛者的脚后跟，重重地摔倒在地。她双脚叉开地趴在地上，没法站起来。运动员们飞奔而过，眼看她就要在全州竞争中悄然退出。看到一名对手超到前面，她受到了刺激，随后利用附近的栅栏让自己爬了起来，最终轻松获得第10名。
It was a lesson in resilience. “Now I know I can do it,” she said. “It may take a little while, but if I fall, I know I can get up.”
这是一次关于坚韧不拔的学习经历。“现在我知道自己可以做到，”她说，“可能得花上一点时间，但是，如果我摔倒了，我知道自己可以站起来。”
Exercise is commonly recommended for M.S. patients, and Montgomery’s doctor has cleared her for racing. However, some experts worry pushing to the point of collapse could have long-term drawbacks.
多发性硬化症患者通常会接到锻炼的建议，蒙哥马利的医生也批准她参赛。不过，有些专家担心，把身体逼到瘫倒的地步，或许会带来长期负面效应。
“When you push to your limit, your body usually sends pain signals to warn you that you’re damaging tissues,” said Dr. Peter Calabresi, director of the Multiple Sclerosis Center at Johns Hopkins. He has not treated Montgomery.
“当你把自己逼到极致的时候，身体通常会发出疼痛信号，警告你，你正在损害身体组织，”约翰·霍普金斯多发性硬化症中心(Multiple Sclerosis Center)的主任彼得·卡拉布雷西博士(Peter Calabresi)说。他没有参与蒙哥马利的治疗工作。
“Pushing that limit is what endurance sports are all about. But if you can’t feel those signals and push from tingling to extreme or prolonged numbness, you could be doing damage that we won’t even know about until down the road. It’s a paradox.”
“逼到那样的极致就是耐力运动的全部意义。可是，如果你不能感知这些信号，从刺痛发展到极限，或长时间失去知觉，也许就是在伤害自己，而这种伤害要到将来甚至才会为我们所知。这是一种悖论。”