WASHINGTON — The Obama administration announced Sunday that it was imposing new, more limited sanctions on some Iranian citizens and companies for violating United Nations resolutions against ballistic missile tests. The move came less than 24 hours after the White House lifted broader sanctions against Iran for its nuclear program.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府于周日宣布，因为一些伊朗公民和公司违背联合国禁止进行弹道导弹试验的决议，将对他们施加较为有限的新制裁。而在不到24小时之前，白宫才刚解除了因为核计划而对伊朗施加的广泛制裁。
The announcement, which was prepared several weeks ago but delayed by the Treasury Department, was made shortly after a Swiss plane carrying Americans freed by the Iranian authorities departed Tehran. The release of the Americans came a day after Iran and the United States concluded delicate negotiations on a prisoner exchange tied indirectly to the completion of a nuclear agreement.
一架载有伊朗当局释放的美国人的瑞士飞机飞离德黑兰后不久，奥巴马政府就宣布了上述新制裁举措。这一措施是在几周前拟定的，但被财政部(Treasury Department)推迟发布。伊朗与美国结束有关囚犯交换的棘手谈判一天之后，伊朗释放了美国人。交换囚犯与美伊核协议的实施有着间接的联系。
President Obama on Sunday hailed the agreements with Iran as the beginning of what he hoped would be a new era of constructive relations between two nations, which have been long estranged over ideology and regional ambitions.
周日，奥巴马总统称赞与伊朗达成的协议，称希望这能开启两国间建设性关系的新时代。一直以来，两国关系都因为意识形态及地区野心而疏远。
“This is a good day,” Mr. Obama said in a televised statement from the White House.
“今天是个好日子，”奥巴马在白宫发表电视讲话时说。
“We have a rare chance to pursue a new path, a different, better future that delivers progress for both our peoples and the wider world,” said Mr. Obama, who has staked his political credibility on the opening with Iran. “That’s the opportunity before the Iranian people. We need to take advantage of that.”
“我们有一个不可多得的机遇来寻求新道路，寻求一个不同的、更好的未来，推动我们两国人民及世界的进步发展，”奥巴马说。“这是摆在伊朗人民面前的机会，我们需要抓住这个机会。”奥巴马在与伊朗开启新关系的问题上，赌上了自己的政治信誉。
But Mr. Obama vowed to continue monitoring Iran’s nuclear program to ensure it does not cheat and said he would work to restrain any aggressive behavior by Iran, including terrorist activity and human rights abuses.
但奥巴马信誓旦旦地表示，会继续监控伊朗的核计划，以确保伊朗不会作弊，并表示自己将会努力遏制伊朗的任何过激行为，比如恐怖活动及侵犯人权的行为。
He also noted the new sanctions on those involved with Iran’s recent ballistic missile tests conducted in violation of United Nations restrictions, but he did not elaborate or dwell on that dispute.
他还提到了对那些违背联合国限制，参与伊朗近期弹道导弹试验的人员所施加的新制裁，但对于这一争端他没有详细阐述。
In a statement, the Treasury Department said it was targeting for sanctions “11 entities and individuals involved in procurement on behalf of Iran’s ballistic missile program” and “five Iranian individuals who have worked to procure ballistic missile components for Iran.”
财政部在一份声明中表示，该部将会对“11个代表伊朗弹道导弹项目进行采购的实体和个人”及“五名为伊朗采购弹道导弹部件的伊朗人”实施制裁。
While the optics of the back-to-back sanctions announcements might seem to suggest that Washington was imposing new measures to make up for those that were lifted Saturday, they are actually nowhere near comparable.
尽管紧接着宣布的制裁仿佛显示出，华盛顿实施新制裁，是为了弥补周六解除的制裁，但前后两宗制裁实际上毫无可比性。
The action taken Saturday allowed Iran to re-enter the world’s oil markets; according to some estimates, by the end of the year its exports may increase by a million barrels a day, yielding roughly $30 million a day in revenue at current prices. Its ships will be able to enter and leave foreign ports, and its people will have access to global financial markets. With a few strokes of a pen, Mr. Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry released more than $100 billion in frozen funds, mostly from past oil sales.
周六解除制裁之后，伊朗得以重新进入世界石油市场。据估计，到今年年底，伊朗原油的日出口量可能会增加100万桶，按照当前价格计算，每天会带来大约3000万美元的收入。伊朗的船只将可以进出外国港口，伊朗人将可以进入全球金融市场。奥巴马和国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)挥笔签字之后，伊朗1000多亿美元的冻结资金就得到了解冻，其中大部分资金来自过去的石油销售。
The new sanctions are mostly aimed at individuals and some small companies accused of shipping crucial technologies to Iran, including carbon fiber and missile parts that can survive re-entry forces. The sanctions are so focused on those individuals and firms that most Iranians will never feel them, and the amounts are comparatively tiny.
新制裁主要针对被控向伊朗输送关键技术的个人及一些小公司，比如碳纤维和能够承受重新进入大气层时的各种作用力的导弹部件。由于制裁针对这些公司和个人，大多数伊朗人不会受到影响，而且制裁范围相对较小。
Mr. Obama also announced Sunday that, in addition to the completion of the nuclear deal and the prisoner swap, the United States and Iran had resolved a three-decade-old financial dispute. The United States will return Iranian money held since the hostage crisis of 1979-81 with interest — but far less than Iran had been seeking, Mr. Obama said.
除了协议的实施和囚犯交换计划，奥巴马在周日还宣布，美国和伊朗解决了一场持续30年的金融纠纷。奥巴马表示，美国将退还自1979年至1981年的人质危机以来扣押的伊朗资金，并支付利息，但金额远低于伊朗寻求的目标。
Administration officials had denied that the missile sanctions were being delayed for political reasons.
政府官员否认涉及导弹的制裁举措是因为政治原因推迟的。
Relatives of three of the freed Americans — Jason Rezaian, Amir Hekmati and Saeed Abedini — expressed joy after getting phone calls from the State Department that their family members were en route to Switzerland and then on to an American air base in Germany. The three men arrived first in Geneva on Sunday, accompanied by Mr. Rezaian’s wife, Yeganeh Salehi, and mother, a State Department official, Brett McGurk, said in a Twitter message. They then continued on to Germany.
三名获释的美国人——贾森·礼萨安(Jason Rezaian)、阿米尔·赫克马提(Amir Hekmati)、赛义德·阿伯蒂尼(Saeed Abedini)——的亲属接到美国国务院的电话，得知他们正在前往瑞士的途中，随后会前往美军位于德国的空军基地，他们都表示感到非常高兴。国务院官员布雷特·麦古尔克(Brett McGurk)在Twitter上表示，这三名美国人在礼萨安的妻子耶加内·萨利希(Yeganeh Salehi)和他的母亲陪同下，首先于周日抵达日内瓦。他们随后前往了德国。
The fourth American freed in the exchange, Nosratollah Khosravi — whose incarceration had not been reported until the prisoner exchange was announced Saturday — was not on the plane, American officials said. It was not immediately clear why.
美国官员表示，第四名获释的美国人努斯拉图拉·荷斯拉维(Nosratollah Khosravi)没有乘坐这架飞机。目前尚不清楚原因。在囚犯交换计划于周六获得公布之前，没有有关荷斯拉维遭到囚禁的报道。
Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, did not address the prisoner swap on Sunday. At a news conference, he said that since the sanctions were lifted, the door had opened for foreign investments in the country, even by American companies.
伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)周日没有提到囚犯交换计划。他在新闻发布会上表示，制裁已经解除，伊朗已经向外国投资敞开大门，甚至欢迎美国公司投资。
“They can invest here anytime, but they have their own obstacles to do so,” Mr. Rouhani said. He did not comment on whether the lifting of the sanctions after two years of talks with world powers, including the United States, would lead to more cooperation by Iran in Syria. Instead, he promised Iran a new and better future.
“他们任何时候都可以来投资，但他们有自己的阻碍，”鲁哈尼说。伊朗在与包括美国在内的世界大国开展了两年的谈判后，制裁得以解除，但鲁哈尼没有评论这是否会促使伊朗在叙利亚开展更多合作。他承诺会给伊朗带来更好的新未来。
The family of Mr. Hekmati, 32, a former Marine incarcerated in Iran longer than any of the others, issued a statement expressing relief that he was out of Iran.
赫克马提的家人发表声明称，得知他离开伊朗后，他们松了一口气。32岁的赫克马提曾在海军陆战队服役，与其他人相比，他被囚禁的时间最长。
“It is hard to put into words what our family feels right now,” the family said. “But we remain in hopeful anticipation until Amir is in our arms.”
“很难用语言表达我们家人现在的感受，”他的家人说。“但我们仍然满怀希望地期待着阿米尔回到我们的怀抱。”
The family of Mr. Rezaian, 39, the Washington Post’s Tehran correspondent, also expressed enormous relief after an agonizing 24 hours between when the exchange was publicly disclosed and when they received confirmation that the Americans had left.
39岁的礼萨安是《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)驻德黑兰记者。他的家人表示，从对外公布交换计划到确认这些美国人已经离开伊朗，他们度过了煎熬的24小时后，终于如释重负。
Mr. Rezaian was arrested in July 2014 on vague charges that included spying. The Washington Post and news media advocates around the world defended his innocence and protested increasingly loudly about his case.
礼萨安在2014年7月因为间谍罪等模糊的指控被捕。《华盛顿邮报》及世界各地的媒体倡导人士都捍卫他的清白，并愈发大声地就该案提出抗议。
“I am incredibly relieved that Jason is on his way home,” Mr. Rezaian’s brother, Ali Rezaian, said in a statement. “He is a talented journalist, who was simply doing his job fairly, accurately and lawfully.”
“贾森正在回家的途中，这让我倍感安心，”礼萨安的兄弟阿里·礼萨安(Ali Rezaian)在声明中说。“他是一名出色的记者，他只是在正当、准确、合法地工作。”
He added: “Today is an incredible day for all of us.”
他还表示，“今天对我们来说是不可思议的一天。”