WASHINGTON — The Senate moved quickly Wednesday to break an impasse over financing the Department of Homeland Security, laying bare tensions between House and Senate Republicans as they searched for a way to avert a partial shutdown of the agency.
华盛顿——参议院在周三迅速采取行动，以打破国土安全部（Department of Homeland Security，简称DHS）拨款僵局，这暴露了参众两院共和党人之间的紧张关系。他们都在寻找方法，防止国土安全部部分停转。
Senate Democrats added to the pressure on House Republicans by saying they would support a proposal by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, to consider a bill that deals only with providing funding for the department, which is set to run out of money Friday.
参议院民主党人给众议院共和党人增加了压力，称他们会支持参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)的提议，考虑一个只涉及国土安全部拨款问题的法案。国土安全部的资金将在周五耗尽。
The dispute over money to keep the department running has emerged as a proxy fight about President Obama’s immigration policies, as well as a major test for Republicans to show they can function as a governing party in Congress. But it also has highlighted the considerable differences on policy matters between House and Senate Republicans, with the plan emerging from the Senate already being criticized by House Republicans.
围绕拨款问题展开的争论其实真正针对的是奥巴马总统的移民政策，也是对共和党人能否展示自己可以发挥国会执政党的作用的重大考验。但这也突显了众议院和参议院共和党人在政策问题上的巨大差异，参议院的新计划已经遭到众议院共和党人的批评。
Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa and a vocal immigration opponent, said Mr. McConnell had “tipped over his king,” using a chess term to imply that the Republican leader had surrendered.
艾奥瓦州共和党众议员斯蒂夫·金(Steve King) 明确反对移民政策，他表示麦康奈尔已经“推倒了自己的国王”，他利用这个国际象棋术语暗示，共和党领导人已经承认失败。
Speaker John A. Boehner told his Republican conference at a closed-door meeting Wednesday morning that he and Mr. McConnell had not spoken in two weeks, something several lawmakers said they found surprising. Mr. Boehner also has not taken a position publicly on the Senate proposal, though the two men met privately for about 40 minutes Wednesday afternoon.
周三上午，众议院议长约翰·博纳(John Boehner)在闭门会议上告诉共和党成员，他和麦康奈尔两周以来没有交谈过，几名议员表示，他们对此感到吃惊。不过两人于周三下午私下会见了将近40分钟，博纳还没有就参议院的提议公开表态。
On Tuesday, Mr. McConnell offered what he hoped was a way out of the fight — one vote on a bill solely to fund the agency, and another vote on legislation proposed by Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, to halt Mr. Obama’s 2014 executive actions on immigration. The Senate Democrats said that their plan would allow for a vote to fund the agency, but that they would not take up the second bill, to end the president’s recent immigration actions, until the funding bill had also passed the House.
周二，麦康奈尔提出了一个方案，希望以此解决争端：单独就向国土安全部拨款的法案进行表决，然后再去就缅因州共和党参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)的提案——终止奥巴马2014年提出的移民改革行政举措——进行表决。参议院民主党人表示，该计划能让针对国土安全部拨款法案的表决得以进行，但直到拨款法案在众议院获得通过，他们不会考虑第二个法案，去终止总统最近提出的移民举措。
“We’re happy to debate it — we won’t put procedural barriers in the way of debating it, once a fully funded D.H.S. bill is on the president’s desk to be signed, that is our view,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the No. 3 Democrat. “We now believe that the way to keep the focus on Speaker Boehner, where it’s been all along, is to pass the clean bill.”
“我们很乐意展开辩论，一旦总统的桌子上有了一份为DHS提供全额拨款的法案，等待总统签署，我们不会为辩论设置程序上的障碍，这就是我们的想法，”来自纽约州的参议院民主党三号人物查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)说。“我们现在认为，一如既往的，要想把人们的注意力锁定在博纳议长身上，就得通过这个单纯的法案。”
And on Wednesday morning, Mr. Boehner and House Republicans emerged from their private meeting saying they had no plans to act until the Senate actually sent them a bill.
周三上午进行私人会晤后，博纳和众议院共和党人对外宣布，在参议院向他们提交议案之前，他们无意行动。
“I don’t know what the Senate’s capable of passing, and until I see what they’re going to pass, no decisions have been made on the House side,” Mr. Boehner said. “The House has done its job to fund the Department of Homeland Security and to stop the president’s overreach on immigration, and we’re waiting for the Senate to do their job.”
“我不知道参议院能够通过什么样的议案，所以在我看到他们要通过的议案之前，众议院这边不会作出任何决定，”博纳说道。“众议院尽到了自己的职责，为国土安全部的运作拨款并制止总统在移民问题上越权。我们在等待参议院尽到他们的职责。”
Representative Kevin McCarthy, Republican of California and the majority leader, told his members to keep their schedules “flexible,” and to expect a lot of late nights and early mornings, as well as maybe a weekend session. Another option emerging Wednesday was a short-term funding measure, either for a few months, or for at least a few days until lawmakers figure out a plan.
来自加利福尼亚州的多数党领袖、众议员凯文·麦卡锡(Kevin McCarthy)要求党员们将时间表安排得“灵活些”，并准备好在深夜和清晨工作，也许还会有个周末会议。周三浮现的另一个选项是一项短期提供资金的举措，持续数月，或至少数天，直到两院达成一致。
But it remains unclear just how far House Republicans — who want use the spending to gut the president’s actions on immigration — are willing to go in their delicate stance between fighting Mr. Obama’s immigration policies and providing money for a vital security agency.
现在还不清楚，想通过预算来遏止总统在移民问题上的行动的众议院共和党人想要做到什么程度。立场微妙的他们既要反抗奥巴马的移民政策，也要为这个关键的安全机构提供资金。
Short of passing the Senate’s funding bill or allowing the agency to shut down, House Republicans worked behind the scenes to come up with alternative solutions.
既不想通过参议院的拨款提案，也不愿让国土安全部关门的众议院共和党人正在幕后谋划备选方案。
Several options that members have suggested, said someone with knowledge of the discussions, include a short-term funding measure until the House and the Senate can meet in a joint committee to resolve the differences between their plans; a short-term funding measure until the Senate passes Ms. Collins’s proposal; or adding back in language to repeal Mr. Obama’s 2014 executive actions, but leaving untouched his 2012 protections for the young immigrants known as “Dreamers.”
据一位熟悉内部讨论的人透露，共和党成员们提出了几个选项，其中包括：一项短期提供资金的举措，直到参众两院可以在联席委员会上来消除二者计划上的分歧；一项短期提供资金的举措，直到参议院通过柯林斯的提案；或者是重新加入文本，废除奥巴马2014年的行政举措，但是对他2012年颁布的对年轻移民的保护措施不予更改。这些年轻移民被称作“有梦的人”(Dreamers)。
Another possibility is passing a bill to fund the department — but with the condition that the financing would end if a recent ruling by a federal judge to halt the president from implementing his immigration executive actions is overturned.
另一种可能性是通过一项议案，为该部门拨款——但条件是，如果一项由联邦法官近期为阻止总统实施移民改革行政举措而做出的裁决被推翻的话，资金提供将终止。
“There wasn’t really a clear message of where we’re going,” said Representative Raúl R. Labrador, Republican of Idaho. “I know that most of us over here feel that you have to have the defunding of the president’s actions attached.”
“没有一个明确的信息表明我们正走向何处，”爱达荷州共和党众议员劳尔·R·拉夫拉多尔(Raúl R. Labrador)说。“我知道这里的大多数人都觉得，撤出总统举措的资金一事必须与此决定挂钩。”
If Mr. Boehner and his leadership team do ultimately try to pass a “clean” funding bill that has no immigration-related amendments, probably with the support of Democratic members, the Republican base “would be extremely angry,” said Representative John Fleming, Republican of Louisiana. “So this is very, very delicate territory for our leadership.”
路易斯安那州共和党众议员约翰·弗莱明(John Fleming)说，如果博纳和其领导团队，或许在民主党成员的支持下，最终真的试图通过一项“纯粹的”、没有与移民相关的修正案附带其中的资金议案，共和党大众“将极度愤怒”。“所以这对我们的领导层来说，是一个非常、非常棘手的领域。”
But on Wednesday, Mr. Boehner gave no clear indication of what the House would be able to pass. “Senate Democrats have stood in the way now for three weeks over a bill that should have been debated and passed,” he said. “So until the Senate does something, we’re in a wait-and-see mode.”
但在周三，博纳没有明确表明众议院将能够通过何种议案。“参议院民主党人现在已经阻碍一项议案三周了，它本应已被讨论过、且通过了的，”他说。“所以直到参议院有所行动之前，我们都会处于‘等着看怎么办’的状态。”
Republicans have long blamed Democrats for the stalemate, pointing out that Senate Democrats have four times filibustered an effort to even open debate on a funding bill. But with time ticking down until a partial shutdown, some Republican lawmakers also signaled that it was time to accept a compromise.
共和党人长久以来把僵持怪在民主党人头上，指出参议院民主党人已有四次故意发表长篇演说从中作梗，使就拨款议案的讨论甚至都无法开始。但随着离局部停转已时日不多，一些共和党议员也表示，是时候接受妥协了。