MIAMI — The Justice Department on Tuesday closed its investigation into the shooting death three years ago of Trayvon Martin, the unarmed black teenager in a hoodie who became a symbol of racial profiling and expansive self-defense laws, without filing hate-crime charges against the gunman George Zimmerman.
迈阿密——司法部(Justice Department)周二结束了对三年前未持械黑人少年特雷沃恩·马丁(Trayvon Martin)被枪杀一案的调查，未对开枪者乔治·齐默尔曼(George Zimmerman)提起仇恨犯罪指控。遇害时身着兜帽上衣的马丁成了种族定性和宽泛的自卫法律的象征。
The department began a civil rights investigation shortly after a national furor erupted over Martin's death, which set off protests, demands for justice and an emotional response from President Barack Obama. The shooting was the first in a string of racially tinged cases involving the death of young black men that have prompted a rethinking of the nation's criminal justice system and police procedure.
马丁之死引发了抗议和伸张正义的呼声，贝拉克·奥巴马总统(President Barack Obama)也作出了动情的回应。在事件引发全国性愤怒后不久，司法部开启了民事权利调查。这起枪击事件是一系列带有种族主义气息、涉及年轻黑人男子死亡的案件中的第一起。这些案件促使人们反思美国的刑事司法制度和警务程序。
Zimmerman was acquitted in a state court of second-degree murder in 2013; some jurors said they believed that Zimmerman had shot Martin, 17, in self-defense.
2013年，一家州法院判定齐默尔曼二级谋杀罪名不成立；一些陪审员称，他们认为齐默尔曼向17岁的马丁开枪是出于自卫。
The conclusion of the Justice Department investigation came as Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. completed his term in office and was one of several racially fraught cases that he said the department would finish investigating before he stepped down. The Justice Department is also conducting two separate civil rights investigations into the shooting death of Michael Brown, another unarmed black teenager who was killed by a white police officer in Ferguson, Missouri, last August. In that case, violent demonstrations sometimes erupted after the shooting. A grand jury declined to indict the officer.
司法部结束调查之际，正值司法部长小埃里克·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)任职期满。霍尔德曾表示，司法部将在他离任前结束对几桩有种族主义色彩的案件的调查，该案便是其中之一。目前，司法部还在就迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)被枪杀一案进行两项独立的民权调查。布朗是另一名被白人警察枪杀的黑人少年。那起事件发生在密苏里州的弗格森，时间是去年8月。该案发生后时有暴力的抗议示威活动出现。一个大陪审团已经拒绝起诉涉事警察。
On Tuesday, officials from the Justice Department and the FBI met with Martin's parents, Sybrina Fulton and Tracy Martin, in Miami to inform them about the decision not to bring federal charges.
周二，司法部和联邦调查局(FBI)官员在迈阿密与马丁的父母——塞布丽娜·富尔顿(Sybrina Fulton)和特雷西·马丁(Tracy Martin)——见了面，告知他们不提出联邦指控的决定。
“The death of Trayvon Martin was a devastating tragedy,” Holder said in a statement. “It shook an entire community, drew the attention of millions across the nation, and sparked a painful but necessary dialogue throughout the country.
“特雷沃恩·马丁的死是一个令人心碎的悲剧，”霍尔德在一份声明中说。“它震动了整个社会，引发了全国无数人的关注，在全国范围激起了一场痛苦但必要的对话。”
“Though a comprehensive investigation found that the high standard for a federal hate crime prosecution cannot be met under the circumstances here, this young man's premature death necessitates that we continue the dialogue and be unafraid of confronting the issues and tensions his passing brought to the surface. We, as a nation, must take concrete steps to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the future.”
“尽管通过综合调查发现，本案没能符合联邦报复性犯罪指控的高标准，但这名年轻人的早逝，让我们必须把对话进行下去，勇敢地面对他的逝去暴露出的问题和冲突。作为一个国家，我们必须采取具体的措施，确保这样的事故未来不再发生。”