In a city where skyscrapers sprout like weeds, none grew as high as the Sapphire tower in Istanbul.
在伊斯坦布尔这座高楼大厦如野草般丛生的城市里，没有哪栋楼比蓝宝石大厦(Sapphire tower)更高。
Today, it stands as a symbol of how far the mighty may fall.
如今，它的存在象征着经济崩溃之后可能出现的严重后果。
Like a vast majority of new buildings that have blanketed the Istanbul hills in recent years, the Sapphire — at 856 feet it is the tallest in Turkey and among the loftiest in Europe — was built on the back of cheap loans, in dollars, that have flooded Turkey and other fast-growing markets like Brazil, India and South Korea. The money began to flow when the Federal Reserve and other major central banks cut interest rates to the bone in 2009 and cranked up the printing presses in a bid to spur recovery in the United States and other advanced industrial nations.
近年来，伊斯坦布尔的山丘上布满了大量新楼房，与这些建筑一样，蓝宝石大厦——它高856英尺（约合261米），是土耳其的最高建筑，也是欧洲最高的建筑之一——也是靠廉价贷款修建的，这些美元贷款大量涌入了土耳其、巴西、印度和韩国等增长迅速的市场。2009年，为了促进美国和其他发达工业国家的经济恢复，美联储(Federal Reserve)和其他主要中央银行大幅降低利率，而且还加大了印钞机的运行强度。这些资金便是从那时开始流入的。
But now, with expectations mounting that the Federal Reserve, led by its departing chairman Ben S. Bernanke, may soon begin to tighten its monetary spigot, Istanbul’s skyline could well be a harbinger of an emerging-market bust brought on by unpaid loans, weakening currencies, and, eventually, the possible failure of developers and banks.
然而现在，有越来越多的人都认为，美联储在其行将卸任的主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)的领导下，很快就会开始拧紧资金阀门，所以伊斯坦布尔的天际线很可能预示着这个新兴市场即将陷入萧条，而导致萧条的原因就是未偿付的贷款、走弱的货币，最后可能还有开发商和银行的破产。
This week, stocks and currencies in several developing Asian markets, including India, Indonesia and Thailand, have been hit hard. Global investors continued to withdraw funds from emerging markets, as interest rates edge up in anticipation of the Fed’s move to reduce its stimulus efforts in the United States. Indonesia’s benchmark index, which fell 5 percent on Monday, dropped 3.2 percent more on Tuesday. India’s stock market fell 0.3 percent after sliding 5.6 percent in the previous two trading sessions.
本周，印度、印度尼西亚和泰国等几个亚洲发展中国家的股票和货币都受到了严重冲击。由于市场预计，美联储可能会减少它在美国的刺激措施，利率开始缓慢攀升，于是国际投资者持续在从新兴市场回收资金。周一，印尼的基准指数骤降5%，周二又大跌3.2%。印度股市在之前的两个交易日下滑5.6%之后，又降低了0.3%。
Some analysts see it as the markets reacting to an end — real or perceived — of the Bernanke boom. “What we are witnessing is a huge bubble, a Bernanke bubble if you will,” said Tim Lee of Pi Economics, an independent consultancy based in Greenwich, Conn.
有些分析人士认为，出现这种现象是因为这些市场对伯南克繁荣期的结束（不管是真的还是人们想象的）作出了反应。位于康涅狄格州格林威治的独立咨询公司派经济学(Pi Economics)的蒂姆·李(Tim Lee)说，“我们见到的是一个巨大的泡沫，我们可以把它称作伯南克泡沫。”
Not everybody is as alarmed as Mr. Lee. Still, 16 years after emerging markets in Asia imploded after local currencies collapsed, even optimists are starting to grow nervous over the rapid accumulation of dollar-denominated debt not just in Turkey but in other now-struggling economies like Brazil, India and South Korea.
并非每个人都像蒂姆·李一样担心。然而在亚洲，新兴市场曾在16年前因本国货币崩溃而爆发经济动荡，在那里，就连乐观主义者现在都开始担心各国美元债务的快速增加状况，而这种情况不仅发生在土耳其，还发生在巴西、印度和韩国等正在陷入困境的经济体。
When the Turkish lira or the rupee in India was strong — as these currencies were until recently — local companies had every incentive to borrow in dollars at comparatively lower interest rates.
当土耳其里拉或印度卢比还比较强势的时候——过去一直如此，情况最近才发生了变化——当地公司有着很大的动力来以较低利率借入美元。
But when local currencies start to weaken, in line with diminished economic prospects, then the effect is twofold: paying off dollar loans becomes more costly for the borrower, and the lender becomes increasingly skittish about his exposure to a fragile currency and may move to reduce or even slash credit lines.
但是，在当地货币随着恶化的经济形势开始变弱时，就会带来双重影响：对于借款人来说，偿还美元贷款将需要付出更高的代价，而贷款者则会对借款人脆弱的本国货币愈加感到不安，因而可能会减少甚至大幅降低借款人的信用额度。
While Brazil has the largest amount of dollar loans outstanding at $287 billion, few countries have relied on this source of money as much as Turkey, where dollar loans of around $172 billion represent 22 percent of the overall economy.
虽然巴西的美元贷款数额最大，其未偿贷款的数额为2870亿美元（约合1.76万亿元人民币），但是很少有哪个国家像土耳其那样如此依赖这个资金来源。在土耳其，共计约1720亿美元的美元贷款相当于土耳其经济规模的22%。
In recent months, the Turkish lira has lost 4.5 percent of its value against the dollar. Adding to this, protests have hit Istanbul’s main public square over an unpopular building sponsored by a developer with close political and cultural ties to the prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
最近几个月，土耳其里拉兑美元汇率下跌了4.5%。雪上加霜的是，人们还在伊斯坦布尔的主要公共广场上举行抗议活动，对一名开发商出资建造的不受欢迎的建筑物表示反对。这名开发商与总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)有着密切的政治和文化关系。
Goldman Sachs is forecasting a dollar-lira rate of 2.2, representing a 15 percent mini-devaluation from the current level of 1.95. “The Turkish economic miracle was built on liquidity and a massive appreciation of the Turkish lira,” said Atilla Yesilada, an economist at Global Source partners in Istanbul, who has lived through Turkey’s previous financial crashes in 1994 and 2001.
高盛投资公司(Goldman Sachs)预测美元兑里拉的汇率将变为2.2，也就是说将出现15%的小幅贬值，目前的汇率为1.95。“土耳其的经济奇迹建立在流动性和土耳其里拉大幅度升值的基础之上，”伊斯坦布尔环球资源合作伙伴(Global Source partners)的经济学家阿蒂拉·耶西拉达(Atilla Yesilada)说。他曾经历过土耳其1994年和2001年的金融危机。
These loans — many of them relatively short term — also highlight a recurring characteristic of the emerging-market growth boom: the powerful nexus between ambitious governments eager to promote high-profile investments and politically connected business groups ready to take on such projects.
这些贷款——其中很多的期限都相对较短——还突显了新兴市场的繁荣发展中反复出现的一个特征：野心勃勃的政府急于推动高调投资项目，而政治人脉深厚的商业团体也做好了接手这些项目的准备，政府和商业团体之间有着强有力的联系。
The Sapphire tower in Turkey is a perfect example in this regard.
就这一点而言，土耳其的蓝宝石大厦是一个完美案例。
The 54-floor tower, which received a ceremonial baptism from Prime Minister Erdogan when it opened in early 2011, is the signature property of the Kiler Group, one of the many construction-themed conglomerates that have achieved extraordinary success since Mr. Erdogan came to power in 2003.
2011年初，这座54层的大厦开放之时，埃尔多安为它进行了剪彩。它是基莱尔集团(Kiler Group)的标志性建筑。自埃尔多安于2003年掌权以来，许多主要从事建筑行业的集团都取得了巨大成功，基莱尔集团就是其中之一。
According to regulatory filings, 154 million liras of the group’s total 164 million liras in debt is denominated in dollars — about $79 million using current exchange rates. Of that figure, $25 million is related to the Sapphire tower, company officials say. Most of the group’s debt is short term, and in a reflection of the project’s risk, regulatory documents show that the cash generated by the property goes directly to the project’s primary creditor, Akbank, the fourth-largest bank in Turkey.
监管披露文件表明，该集团共计1.64亿里拉的债务中有1.54亿里拉都是美元——用当前的汇率就是约7900万美元。公司管理人员说，这个数字中有2500万美元都与蓝宝石大厦有关。集团的债务大部分都是短期的，文件还指出，大厦所带来的现金收入直接进入了工程主要债权人Akbank的账户，这些都反映了该工程面临的风险。Akbank是土耳其第四大银行。
Given the differential between dollar loans at 6.5 percent and lira credit costing 11.5 percent, it was no surprise that the Kiler Group and others chose to borrow in dollars. The company, in its most recent filings, acknowledged this risk: if the American dollar gains 10 percent against the Turkish currency, the loss to the company would be 11.8 million Turkish liras.
美元贷款的利率为6.5%，而里拉贷款的利率则为11.5%，鉴于这种区别，基莱尔集团和其他集团会选择美元贷款也就不足为奇了。公司在最新的披露文件中承认了这种风险：如果美元兑土耳其货币的汇率升值10%，公司就将损失1180万土耳其里拉。
According to Rasim Kaan Aytogu, chief financial officer for the Kiler Group, contends that because the project books its revenue in dollars it is not exposed to currency fluctuations. He also says that demand for apartment units is strong, with 66 percent of them sold.
基莱尔集团的首席财务官拉西姆·卡安·阿伊托古(Rasim Kaan Aytogu)称，因为这项工程是用美元来记录收益的，所以不会受到汇率波动的影响。他还说住房的需求很强劲，其中66%的房子都已售出。
“This is a unique property in all of Europe,” he said. “And it is becoming a travel destination.”
“这个房产在整个欧洲都是独一无二的，”他说。“而且它正在成为旅游热点。”
But Turkish real estate experts say that sales of the apartments, which cost from $1 million to $10 million, have lagged and that the tower does not have the prestige of rival properties, including towers built by Trump and Zorlu. And according to company filings, revenue from visitors ogling the view from the tower’s observation deck have undershot targets from the outset.
但是土耳其的房地产专家却说，房子（售价从100万美元到1000万美元不等）的销售并未达到预期水平，而且蓝宝石大厦没有它的竞争对手的那种声誉，其中包括特朗普(Trump)和Zorlu集团所修建的大厦。此外，公司披露文件还显示，游客前往大厦观景台观赏风景所带来的收益从一开始就没有达到预期目标。