The United States economy performed a bit better than expected in the second quarter, shrugging off some of the impact from higher taxes and lower federal spending in the spring, the government reported Wednesday.
美国政府周三报告，美国经济第二季度的表现比预期稍好，并未受到春季较高税收和较低联邦支出的影响。
The gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of 1.7 percent, hardly indicative of an economic boom, let alone enough to bring down elevated levels of unemployment soon. It is also the third quarter in a row in which growth failed to top 2 percent, the average since the recession ended in 2009.
国内生产总值的年化增长率为1.7%，算不上经济繁荣的迹象，更不足以马上降低居高不下的失业率。这也是经济增长率连续第三个季度没有超过2%，2%是2009年衰退期结束后的平均水平。
Still, the increase was an acceleration from growth in the first quarter of 2013, which was revised downward to 1.1 percent from an earlier estimate of 1.8 percent by the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
尽管如此，与2013年第一季度相比，这一季度的增长率已经出现增长。商务部经济分析局(Bureau of Economic Analysis)起初预计第一季度的增长率为1.8%，后来又调低为1.1%。
“It was a reasonable performance,” said Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. “In the long run, it’s not enough, but I’ll take growth wherever I can get it.”
“这个表现很正常，”潘西恩宏观经济咨询公司(Pantheon Macroeconomics)的首席经济学家伊恩·谢泼德森(Ian Shepherdson)说。“长期来看，这样是不够的，但我认为，有增长就好。”
The economy’s trajectory is being closely watched by the Federal Reserve as it determines whether to ease its huge stimulus efforts. Fed policy makers will conclude a two-day meeting on Wednesday and issue their latest statement on the economy early Wednesday afternoon.
美联储(Federal Reserve)一直在密切关注经济形势，以决定是否缩减大规模经济刺激计划。美联储的政策制定者将于周三结束为期两天的会议，并将于周三午后不久发布他们关于经济的最新声明。
On Wall Street, stocks rose modestly as traders readied for the Fed announcement, watching closely for any change in the language of the statement that might indicate the central bank’s course.
华尔街的交易者都为美联储的声明做好了准备，股价出现了轻微上浮。交易者会紧密关注声明在措辞上的任何变化，借以推测中央银行的政策。
Many economists had anticipated growth of below 1 percent in the second quarter, as automatic spending cuts imposed by Congress and higher taxes that went into effect this year began to bite.
很多经济学家曾预计第二季度的增长率不会超过1%，因为国会推行的自动减支和较高税收已于今年生效，并已造成负面影响。
Federal spending did decline by 1.5 percent in the second quarter, but the drop was not as severe as the falloff in government spending in earlier quarters. Exports rose 5.4 percent, reversing a decline in the first quarter.
第二季度的联邦开支的确减少了1.5%，降幅却不像此前几个季度那么大。出口增加了5.4%，扭转了第一季度的跌势。
Most experts predict growth will pick up in the second half of 2013 as the drag from the federal spending cuts and higher taxes begins to fade.
多数专家预计，由于联邦削减开支和较高税赋所产生的负面影响开始消退，2013年下半年，经济增速将会加快。
“On balance it was a positive report showing a healthier economy than previously believed,” said Michelle Meyer, senior United States economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “But growth has slowed in the past few quarters, reflecting fiscal tightening in Washington.”
“总的说来，这是一份积极的报告，显示出经济形势比此前想象的要好，”美国银行-美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)资深经济学家米歇尔·梅耶(Michelle Meyer)说。“不过，经济增长在过去几个季度中有所放缓，反映了华盛顿财政紧缩的影响。”
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke, has hinted the Fed will soon begin winding down part of its extensive bond purchases aimed at stimulating the economy, but the timing is uncertain.
美联储主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)曾暗示，美联储将很快开始部分缩减大规模购买债券的经济刺激计划，但时间还没确定。
On Wall Street, analysts and traders are speculating that the Fed could start tapering as early as September if the economy enjoys healthier growth and the job situation improves, or it could be delayed to December or beyond on evidence of weakness.
在华尔街，分析人士及交易员猜测，如果经济保持健康发展，就业形势有所改善，美联储最早会从9月开始逐渐减少购买债券，如果经济疲软，美联储可能会把这一举措推迟到12月，甚至更晚。
While the Federal Reserve is not expected to announce a change in policy later in the day Wednesday, the economic data in the second quarter paints a more vigorous picture than anticipated and may increase the odds that the Fed will taper sooner rather than later.
虽然美联储预计不会在周三晚些时候宣布政策变更，第二季度的经济数据却勾画了一幅比预期更有活力的图景，可能会增加美联储提早而不是推后缩减计划的几率。
Indeed, there were pockets of strength in Wednesday’s data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis. For example, residential fixed investment increased by 13.4 percent, a sign the housing sector continues to recover. Personal consumption rose 1.8 percent, as consumers showed some resiliency, especially given the increase in payroll taxes at the beginning of 2013.
实际上，商务部经济分析局(Bureau of Economic Analysis)周三公布的数据确有不少亮点。例如，住宅类固定投资上涨了13.4%，说明房地产领域继续复苏。随着消费者情绪出现回弹，个人消费增加了1.8%，考虑到2013年初工资税的提高，这一点尤其可喜。
The reason government spending stabilized last quarter, rather than falling sharply, was that military spending flattened out, said Steve Blitz, an economist with ITG.
ITG投资研究公司经济学家史蒂夫·布利茨(Steve Blitz)表示，上个季度的政府支出之所以保持稳定，没有出现大幅下降，是因为军费开支持平。
After falling 21.6 percent in the final quarter of 2012, and another 11.2 percent in the first quarter of 2013, military spending last quarter barely budged, sinking just 0.5 percent. One factor that makes Mr. Blitz more optimistic about growth in 2014 “is the presumption that most of the military wind-down will have been completed.”
军费开支在2012年最后一个季度下降21.6%，又在2013年第一季度减少11.2%，上个季度则几乎没有发生变化，仅减少0.5%。布利茨对2014年的经济增长持较为乐观的态度，其中一个原因是“据推测，政府的大部分军费缩减计划业已完成”。
Higher inventories, always a volatile component of economic reports, added 0.41 percentage point to overall growth. But analysts cautioned that inventory estimates were often adjusted as more data came in, raising the possibility that second-quarter growth could be revised downward in the future.
较高的库存一直是经济报告中不稳定的部分，为总体经济增长贡献了0.41个百分点。但分析人士警告称，随着更多数据的出现，库存估计数字通常会被调整，增加了未来下调第二季度经济增长数字的可能性。
More clues about the economy’s performance will come on Friday when the Labor Department reports on monthly job creation and the unemployment rate. Economists estimate the economy created 185,000 jobs in July, according to a Bloomberg survey, a bit below the 195,000 level in June, with the unemployment rate falling to 7.5 percent, from 7.6 percent.
美国劳工部(Labor Department)将于周五公布每月的就业情况及失业率，为评估经济表现提供更多的线索。根据彭博社(Bloomberg)的一项调查，经济学家估计，7月的经济发展创造了18.5万个就业机会，略低于6月份19.5万的水平，失业率则从7.6%降到了7.5%。