In the last few days, reports that Harvard’s most common grade is an “A” have  now gone viral. But despite the shocked-shocked! tone of some of the coverage, this is actually very old news.
在过去的几天中，对哈佛大学现在最常见的成绩是A一事的报道引起了广泛的传播与讨论。尽管某些媒体在报道时表示惊讶万分，不过这其实是个很老的新闻。
The last time A-range (that is, the combination of A and A-) grades or their equivalent were not the most common grades awarded at Harvard was 20 years ago. That’s according to Stuart Rojstaczer, who tracks and aggregates grading data at colleges, including some data going back to prewar times. (You may recall he previously answered your questions on grade inflation here).
上一次A级别（也就是A与A-加起来）的成绩或者是等同此的成绩不占哈佛大学学生成绩主流，还是20年前的事情了。这一结论是由斯图尔特·罗伊斯塔柴尔(Stuart Rojstaczer)给出的，他追踪与统计大学院校对学生打分的数据，其中有些数据追溯到了战前年代（你可能会记得他曾经回答过大家关于大学给分通货膨胀的问题）。
He used the term “equivalent” because Harvard converted from a 15-point grading system to a conventional A-F system in the 2000s. Harvard defined its “15″ as an A and its “14″ as an A-, Dr. Rojstaczer explained in an email.
他使用了“等同于”这样一个概念，因为哈佛大学在21世纪初从以15分制打分系统转换到了传统的A至F的系统。据罗伊斯塔柴尔在电子邮件中给出的解释，哈佛将其原来的15分设定为A，14分则为A-。
Dr. Rojstaczer wrote that as of the 1989-90 academic year, A- was the grade most commonly awarded to undergraduates at Harvard. By 2000-01, A- was very close to being replaced by A (within 1.3 percent) as the modal grade (that is, the grade that appears with the most frequency). The A-range combination of A/A- became the modal grade (in comparison to B+/B/B-) in the 1994-95 academic year.
罗伊斯塔柴尔博士表示，在1989-1990学年，A-是哈佛为本科生打出的最常见的分数。在2000-2001学年，作为典型给分（也就是最经常出现的分数），A-差不多快要被A所取代（仅多出1.3%）。在1994-1995学年，由A与A-共同组成的A级别成为了最典型的给分（与B+/B/B-组成的B级别相对应）。
Clutching your pearls yet? Bear in mind that nationally, the A/A- combination has been the most common grade awarded nationwide at colleges since 1997.
这些线索足够把散落的珍珠串成项链了吧？要知道，在全美国范围内，A/A-组成的A级别成为大学为学生给出的最常见的打分，是在1997年。
“So Harvard was only about three years ahead of its time,” Dr. Rojstaczer wrote.Dr. Rojstaczer said the Harvard data “come from the dean’s office by way of request to Larry Summers,” the university’s president until 2006. “Since Larry Summers resigned, Harvard has refused all requests for data.”
“所以哈佛只不过是领先时代大概三年而已，”罗伊斯塔柴尔博士写道。罗伊斯塔柴尔博士表示，哈佛的数据“是从教务办公室获取的，由拉里·萨莫斯(Larry Summers)许可”，后者担任哈佛大学的校长直至2006年。“自从拉里·萨莫斯卸任之后，哈佛就拒绝了所有请他们提供数据的要求。”
For some other coverage of grades and grade inflation, see this post on how private colleges have inflated marks the most; this item on how Republican- versus Democratic-leaning professors grade their students; an article about how law school grading curves were being deliberately softened so graduates would be more competitive on the tough job market; and this post puzzling through why college has gotten less rigorous, but the college degree earnings premium has risen all the same.
至于一些其他对于成绩以及分数通货膨胀的报道，可以看看这个博客，探讨私立大学为什么是给分上浮最多的；这篇文章写的是共和党与民主党倾向的教授都是怎么给学生打分的；这一篇则是关于法学院给出的成绩曲线逐渐柔和平缓，使毕业生能够在艰难的求职市场中更有竞争力；这一篇博客则是提出疑问，为什么大学院校越来越不严谨，但大学文凭的收入溢价一直在增长。