When Amanda Wolfbauer, a high school senior, received the admissions verdict from Hamilton College, in Clinton, N.Y., she posted on Twitter, “What does one do once they’re on a college waitlist? #frustrated #worsethanrejection.”
收到纽约州克林顿镇汉密尔顿学院(Hamilton College)的录取结果以后，高中毕业班学生阿曼达·沃尔夫鲍尔(Amanda Wolfbauer)在她的推特(Twitter)上发了这样一条消息：“被大学列入候补录取名单怎么办？#好挫败#比被拒更惨#。”
A few minutes later she had gone from dejected to dogged: “Well, @HamiltonAdmssn prepare to be dazzled, because I’m determined to get off that waitlist.”
但是只过了几分钟，她的情绪就从沮丧变为坚韧：“好吧，那就请@汉密尔顿学院招生办等着看好了，我是铁了心要进去的！”
Since then, Ms. Wolfbauer, of Carver, Minn., says she has written the admissions department to tell it “how much I want to go there and why Hamilton has been my No. 1 choice since the beginning of my college search”; she sent in “a lot of high school projects,” including one that won a statewide competition; and last weekend she started filming a video with friends — teachers to be added later — “basically telling them how awesome I am, talking about the positive qualities I have and why Hamilton should accept me.”
自那开始，这位来自明尼苏达州卡佛市的沃尔夫鲍尔小姐就开始向汉密尔顿学院招生办连续去信，表达“自己想去贵校就读的强烈兴趣，以及为什么汉密尔顿一直以来都是我择校的首选”；此外，她还寄去了“很多我在高中阶段完成的项目”，其中一个还在全州范围的竞赛中获了奖；就在上周，她又和小伙伴们开始拍摄一段视频，并即将邀请老师出境，“基本上就是向他们展示我有多牛，介绍我有哪些优点，以及为什么汉密尔顿应该录取我。”
Does she ever worry it might be too much? “I more worry that I’m not doing enough,” she said.
那么，她会不会担心自己做得太过头？“其实我更担心自己还做得不够，”沃尔夫鲍尔小姐说。
Especially not while other students on waiting lists are bombarding their dream schools with baked goods, family photos, craft projects depicting campus landmarks and dossiers of testimonials from civic and religious leaders, to name just a few come-ons that admissions offices have seen over the past month.
的确，考虑到其他候补名单上的学生还会向他们的心仪学校狂轰滥炸般寄送烘焙点心、家庭合影、描绘校园地标的手工作品，以及市政或宗教领导人开出的证明材料，沃尔夫鲍尔小姐的做法似乎的确不能被称为过火；而在各大高校招生办在过去几个月里受到的“诱惑”当中，这还只是九牛一毛。
For most applicants to selective colleges, the letters that arrived by April 1 brought an end to months of anxious wondering. But for some small fraction of those students, the tension is only now reaching its apex. They were assigned not to the relief of the yes pile, or the decisiveness of the no pile, but to the slender median of the maybe, with no idea how their application will be resolved, or even when.
对大多数渴望入读心仪学校的人来说，4月1日那天的邮件可以结束他们长达数月的等待与煎熬，但是有一小部分人却无缘这种解脱，反而会感受自己的焦灼更上层楼，因为他们既没有已被录取的欣慰，也没有直接被拒的干脆，而是成了夹在当中的“待定”者，抱着“有可能”会被录取的微薄几率，却豪无确凿的把握，甚至没有可供参考的进度表。
The schools generally ask those students to send word of whether they wish to stay on the waiting list or want to be removed from consideration.
通常，各个大学还会让这些进入候补名单的学生给出回复，表明他们是愿意继续等待，还是愿意直接从名单上移除，不予考虑。
“We encourage wait-listed students who remain very interested in Columbia to send a brief letter affirming that interest and updating us on their senior year,” said Jessica Marinaccio, Columbia University’s dean of undergraduate admissions, “and discourage them from sending extra letters of recommendation or other supplementary materials.”
“我们鼓励那些没能直接入选但是仍对哥伦比亚大学感兴趣的学生给我们发来一封简信，确认他们的确仍有兴趣，并向我们通告一些他们在毕业班的新动向，”哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)本科招生处负责人杰西卡·玛丽娜乔(Jessica Marinaccio)说，“但我们同时也请他们不要再寄送更多的推荐信或是补充材料了。”
Given the high stakes and the opaque proceedings, however, some students just cannot hold back.
即便如此，面对高企的风险和并不透明的进程，很多学生还是抑制不住地想要表达更多。
Admissions officers describe the dynamic in terms that sound like dating: hopeful students are trying to express their interest without coming off like a stalker, while colleges are trying to figure out whether the students are courting other institutions on the side.
在大学招生处的官员看来，学生和学校间的互动就像男女交往：憧憬满满的学生努力想表达自己的热情，但又不想表现得过于饥渴，大学则努力分辨这些学生有没有暗地里同时在“追求”其他的机构。
“Last year, I had a girl who wrote to me every day,” recalled Monica Inzer, Hamilton’s dean of admissions. “She’d send me e-mails; she’d send me letters; she had alums write to me. We all knew that this girl wanted us more than anyone else.”
“去年，有一个女生每天都给我写信，电邮和书信都有，还发动校友写推荐信给我；我们知道她比任何人都更想来我们学校，”汉密尔顿学院的招生处负责人莫妮卡·英泽尔(Monica Inzer)回忆说。
When a total of three spots in the freshman class opened up, that eager young woman was the first person Ms. Inzer called. “She said, ‘Eh, I’m going someplace else.’ ”
所以，当那一年的新生班终于有三个名额空了出来，英泽尔女士第一个通知的就是她，但是这位原本殷切的小姐却在电话里说：“呃，我打算去另一所学校了。”
Another applicant eagerly informed Ann Fleming Brown, the director of admissions at Union College, in Schenectady, N.Y., that the college was her first choice — or had become that when her true first choice, Bowdoin, rejected her. It is just one of the many ways, Ms. Brown and her colleagues at other schools say, that students on the waiting list have shot themselves in the foot in recent years.
另一位大学招生负责人——美国纽约州斯克内克塔迪联合学院(Union College)的安·弗莱明·布朗女士(Ann Fleming Brown)也有过类似的经历：一个学生热情地告诉她，联合学院是她的首选——或者说，是在她被自己真正的首选鲍登学院(Bowdoin College)拒绝以后成为的“首选”。在布朗女士和同事看来，这无疑是近年来候补申请人搬起石头砸中自己脚的众多事例中的一个。
They have insulted the college’s judgment or taste. They have disparaged classmates who already got in. They have threatened to go over the admissions officer’s head. Showing up and demanding an interview is inadvisable. Showing up with a camping tent, even more so.
他们羞辱了大学的辨别力和品味，贬损了已经通过的同学，甚至还威胁要找招生人员的上司，或是直接找上门来要求面试，这都是极不明智的举动——当然，那些带着露营帐篷打算打持久战的就更不用说了。
And parents are often part of the problem. “There’s a mother who e-mails me every third day — they must have timers on these things,” Ms. Brown said. “There’s one parent who calls up and yells at me: ‘I can’t believe this happened! This is a horrible thing!’ And then he calls 10 minutes later and says, ‘I’m sorry.’ Then he calls and says, ‘I know you don’t like me. I’m being a complete pest.’ ”
除了学生，家长方面也同样可能出问题，譬如布朗女士就遇到过一个“每隔三天就给我写信的母亲，我都怀疑她们对这事儿是不是设有定时器”；“还有一位学生家长打来电话向我吼说：‘我不敢相信你们会这么做！这简直太糟糕了！’过了十分钟，他又打来电话说：‘很对不起。’然后过一会儿又打来说：‘我知道我惹你生气了，我表现得完全就是个讨厌鬼。’”
To cut down on behavior like that, says David Borus, dean of admissions at Vassar College, “We are very explicit in the communications we send out about what’s going to help you and what’s not going to help you, and we make it pretty clear that if you do do some of this stuff, you’re just going to tick us off.”
所以为了减少这种事件，瓦萨学院(Vassar College)的招生办主任大卫·博勒斯(David Borus)表示：“我们在向申请人交代的信息里有非常明确的说明，哪些举动对申请是有帮助的，哪些则无益，而且我们也明确表示：假如你做出一些不受欢迎的动作，那么我们肯定会被惹毛。”
What works? Generally, communications that are informed and mature.
所以说到底，到底什么方式才管用？大体来说，最管用的就是有理有据又有节的沟通。
“What most students will do is write, ‘I love you I love you I love you,’ ” said Michael Motto, a former assistant dean of admissions at Yale University who now works as a private educational consultant in New York. “While those notes are charming and flattering and warm, these are academic institutions.”
“大多数学生会写‘爱你爱你爱你’，”耶鲁大学(Yale University)前任招生处副主任、现纽约市私人教育顾问迈克尔·莫托(Michael Motto)先生透露，“但是即便这些留言让人感觉受用又有趣，还是不要忘了，大学毕竟是学术机构。”
Letters that indicate a deep interest in the college’s scholarly offerings, he and others said, probably go further. (The cookies that a wait-listed applicant to Yale once sent in — spelling out Mr. Motto’s name and employer — did not do the trick. )
迈克尔和其他人都同意，那些在申请信中表达出对学校的学术造诣有浓厚兴趣的人更容易被录取。（当迈克尔在耶鲁大学任职期间，还曾收到过一包饼干，是一个候补学生寄来的礼物，那些饼干别出心裁地拼出了迈克尔和耶鲁大学的名字——这招还是不管用。）
No matter what approach students take, there is no way to predict how many seats will become available before the fall semester begins. Right now, schools are counting up how many accepted students have decided to enroll. (Even that number is only a conditional answer, since those committed students could still get word that their first-choice school has plucked them off its waiting list, leaving an opening for a student on the second-choice school’s waiting list.)
不管学生使出什么招数，各个大学在秋季开学前会空出多少录取名额仍然是无法预测的。眼下，大学们也正在统计申请成功的学生里有多少人打算入学，不过即便这个数字被统计出来也只是暂时的，因为一些原本决定入学的学生可能又接到他们更心仪学校的录取通知，这样一来就在他们的次选学校里留了一个空缺给候补名单上的学生。
Trinity College, in Hartford, Conn., which offers several hundred students a spot on its waiting list, eventually accepted around 30 of them last year. The year before, that number was zero. And the year before that, it was more than 100. At present, Hamilton, the school Ms. Wolfbauer has been trying to impress, does not anticipate taking anyone off the waiting list, though that could change as the months go on.
在位于康涅狄格州哈特福德市的美国三一学院(Trinity College)，每年都有数百名学生被列入入候补名单；去年，这个名单上有30来位终被录取，前年一个也没有，再往前一年又补录了一百多个。现在，汉密尔顿学院——也就是沃尔夫鲍尔小姐力争入读的大学还没有任何补录安排，不过这在未来几个月里可能随时发生改变。
Given that uncertainty, Ms. Inzer says, “I encourage families to treat a wait list offer a little bit like a lottery ticket — if it comes through and you win, everything’s great, but you don’t plan on it.”
鉴于这样的不确定性，英泽尔女士表示：“我建议那些拿到候补通知的家庭不妨将其视为一张彩票，假如你真的中了大奖，那当然最好不过，但是也不要对它寄予太多希望。”
Inevitably, some families will ask about buying their way off the waiting list. At Ms. Inzer’s former employer, Babson College, in Wellesley, Mass., she said one parent went so far as to open a checkbook and ask, “What’s it going to take?”
此外，还有一种不可避免的情况，那就是有些家庭会试图用钱来买通他们的录取之路。在英泽尔女士曾经就职的马萨诸塞州威尔斯利巴布森学院(Babson College)，就有家长甚至直接掏出支票簿问：“你们要多少钱才肯录取？”
According to Mr. Motto, at a time when top academic institutions now receive nine-figure donations, there is little point in even asking those questions.
在莫托先生看来，现在顶级学术机构的社会捐款已高达九位数，所以这些问题实在是自取其辱。
“All parents say they know someone who’s made a contribution” that has turned a spot on the waiting list into a spot in the freshman class, he said. “Has it happened in some instances? I’m sure it has,” but, he added, “I think a lot of it is rumor.”
“每个家长都声称他们认识的某个人就是通过捐赠才让小孩摆脱了候补的名单，得偿入选，”莫托先生说。“有这种事情吗？我相信是有的，但是大多数情况只是谣传。”
Which may be why some people turn to other sorts of currencies. During his time at Yale, Mr. Motto said, “Some parent called and offered to buy me two pizzas every week for a year if I admitted the person’s child.” (No one got off the waiting list that year.)
或许这也是为什么有些人转而用其他的方式“捐款”，譬如当莫托先生还在耶鲁大学任职时，“有些学生家长会打电话过来表示，假如我让他们的孩子入学，可以每周帮我买两盒披萨，直到买够一年。”（可惜的是，那一年的耶鲁大学候补名单上一个都没录取。）
An entreaty that Ms. Brown received last month, from a father of a student on Union’s waiting list, may just top them all. “I was offered free rotator cuff surgery,” she said. “Or, alternately, carpal tunnel surgery. I said, Unfortunately I do not need either surgery. And he said, But you will.”
不过要论及这些“捐赠”的奇怪程度，联合学院的布朗女士在上个月遇到的可谓力压群雄：一位候补名单上的学生家长向她表示，愿意帮她“免费做一次肩转轴肌手术或是腕管手术”，由她任选；“我说，不好意思，我可能两个都不需要，但是他说：你早晚是会需要的。”