SAN FRANCISCO — The United States has found a way to permanently embed surveillance and sabotage tools in computers and networks it has targeted in Iran, Russia, Pakistan, Afghanistan and other countries closely watched by American intelligence agencies, according to a Russian cybersecurity firm.
旧金山——俄罗斯网络安全公司表示，美国已经找到了一种方法，可以把监视和破坏工具永久性地嵌入在伊朗、俄罗斯、巴基斯坦、阿富汗和其他美国情报机构密切关注的国家的目标计算机和网络中。
In a presentation of its findings at a conference in Mexico on Monday, Kaspersky Lab, the Russian firm, said that the implants had been placed by what it called the “Equation Group,” which appears to be a veiled reference to the National Security Agency and its military counterpart, United States Cyber Command.
周一，俄罗斯公司卡巴斯基实验室(Kaspersky Lab)在墨西哥的一次会议上介绍其调查结果称，这些工具由它所谓的“方程组”(Equation Group)植入，这里似乎是暗指国家安全局(National Security Agency)及其对应的军事机构网络战司令部(United States Cyber Command)。
It linked the techniques to those used in Stuxnet, the computer worm that disabled about 1,000 centrifuges in Iran’s nuclear enrichment program. It was later revealed that Stuxnet was part of a program code-named Olympic Games and run jointly by Israel and the United States.
它认为，这些技术与破坏伊朗核浓缩项目大约1000台离心机的计算机蠕虫病毒Stuxnet中所使用的技术有关。后来发现，Stuxnet病毒是一个代号“奥运会”(Olympic Games)的项目的一部分，由以色列和美国共同进行。
Kaspersky’s report said that Olympic Games had similarities to a much broader effort to infect computers well beyond those in Iran. It detected particularly high infection rates in computers in Iran, Pakistan and Russia, three countries whose nuclear programs the United States routinely monitors.
卡巴斯基的报告称，“奥运会”与感染伊朗以外计算机的更大规模行动具有相似之处。它在伊朗、巴基斯坦和俄罗斯的计算机中检测到了特别高的感染率，这三个国家的核项目向来在美国监控之下。
Some of the implants burrow so deep into the computer systems, Kaspersky said, that they infect the “firmware,” the embedded software that preps the computer’s hardware before the operating system starts. It is beyond the reach of existing antivirus products and most security controls, Kaspersky reported, making it virtually impossible to wipe out.
卡巴斯基表示，有些植入程序在电脑系统中隐藏得非常之深，甚至感染了“固件”，这种嵌入式软件负责在操作系统启动前准备好电脑的硬件。卡巴斯基报道称，它已经超出了现有杀毒产品和大多数安全控制手段的能力范畴，所以几乎不可能清除。
In many cases, it also allows the American intelligence agencies to grab the encryption keys off a machine, unnoticed, and unlock scrambled contents. Moreover, many of the tools are designed to run on computers that are disconnected from the Internet, which was the case in the computers controlling Iran’s nuclear enrichment plants.
在很多情况下，它还能让美国情报机构无声无息地从一台机器上获取密钥，然后解密加密内容。此外，许多工具都是为了在不与互联网连接的电脑上运行而设计的，控制伊朗核浓缩工厂的计算机就是这种情况。
Kaspersky noted that of the more than 60 attack groups it was tracking in cyberspace, the so-called Equation Group “surpasses anything known in terms of complexity and sophistication of techniques, and that has been active for almost two decades.”
卡巴斯基指出，在它在网络空间跟踪的60多个攻击群体中，所谓的方程组“在复杂性和成熟度方面超过了所有已知技术，而且它已经启用了将近20年”。
Kaspersky Lab was founded by Eugene Kaspersky, who studied cryptography at a high school co-sponsored by the K.G.B. and once worked for the Russian military. Its studies, including one describing a cyberattack of more than 100 banks and other financial institutions in 30 countries, are considered credible by Western experts.
卡巴斯基实验室由尤金·卡巴斯基(Eugene Kaspersky)创立，他曾在由克格勃(KGB)联合主办的一所学校学习密码学，还曾为俄罗斯军方工作。西方专家认为，实验室的研究具有可信性。在其中一项研究中，实验室发现30个国家的100多家银行和其他金融机构受到了网络袭击。
The fact that security software made by Kaspersky Lab is not used by many American government agencies has made it more trusted by other governments, like those of Iran and Russia, whose systems are closely watched by United States intelligence agencies. That gives Kaspersky a front-row seat to America's digital espionage operations.
许多美国政府机构都是不使用卡巴斯基实验室制作的安全软件的，因此，它也更受伊朗和俄罗斯等其他国家的政府信赖。这些国家的系统都在被美国情报机构密切监视。所以，卡巴斯基也得以在第一线监视美国的数字间谍活动。
The firm’s researchers say that what makes these attacks particularly remarkable is their way of attacking the actual firmware of the computers. Only in rare cases are cybercriminals able to get into the actual guts of a machine.
公司的研究人员称，这些袭击之所以尤其引人注意，是因为它们会袭击计算机实际固件的方式。网络犯罪分子很少能进入一台机器的实体内部。
Recovering from a cyberattack typically involves wiping the computer’s operating system and reinstalling software, or replacing a computer’s hard drive. But if the firmware gets infected, security experts say, it can turn even the most sophisticated computer into a useless piece of metal.
恢复受到网络攻击的电脑通常需要清理计算机的操作系统和重新安装软件，或者更换计算机的硬盘驱动器。但安全专家说，倘若固件受到感染，最精密的计算机可能也会变成一堆废铁。
In the past, security experts have warned about “the race to the bare metal” of a machine. As security around software has increased, criminals have looked for ways to infect the actual hardware of the machine. Firmware is about the closest to the bare metal you can get — a coveted position that allows the attacker not only to hide from antivirus products but also to reinfect a machine even if its hard drive is wiped.
安全专家过去就警告过要注意感染电脑“裸机的竞赛”。随着软件安全的升级，犯罪分子已开始寻找感染电脑实际硬件的途径。能攻击到固件，几乎可以说已经无限接近对裸机的攻击——这是一种梦寐以求的态势，不仅能让攻击者避开反病毒产品，还能在硬盘数据被抹掉后再次感染电脑。
“If the malware gets into the firmware, it is able to resurrect itself forever,” Costin Raiu, a Kaspersky threat researcher, said in the report. “It means that we are practically blind and cannot detect hard drives that have been infected with this malware.”
“如果恶意软件进入固件，它永远都能自行复活，”卡巴斯基的威胁研究人员科斯廷·拉尤(Costin Raiu)在报告中说。“这意味着我们实际上就瞎了，无法检测到感染了这种恶意软件的硬盘。”
The possibility of such an attack is one that math researchers at the National Institute of Standards and Technology, a branch of the Commerce Department, have long cautioned about but have very rarely seen. In an interview last year, Andrew Regenscheid, a math researcher at the institute, warned that such attacks were extremely powerful. If the firmware gets corrupted, Mr. Regenscheid said, “your computer won’t boot up and you can’t use it. You have to replace the computer to recover from that attack.”
隶属于商务部(Commerce Department)的国家标准与技术研究院(National Institute of Standards and Technology)的数学研究人员多年来一直在发出警告，称存在遭遇这种攻击的可能性，但很少能实际见到它的发生。去年接受采访时，该研究院的数学研究人员安德鲁·雷根沙伊德(Andrew Regenscheid)警告称，这类攻击极其有力。雷根沙伊德表示，如果固件被感染了，“电脑就无法启动和使用。不得不换电脑才能从攻击中恢复过来。”
That kind of attack also makes for a powerful encryption-cracking tool, Mr. Raiu noted, because it gives attackers the ability to capture a machine’s encryption password, store it in “an invisible area inside the computer’s hard drive” and unscramble a machine’s contents.
拉尤指出，这种攻击也会成为一种强大的加密破解手段，因为它让攻击者能够获取电脑的加密秘钥，将其存储在“电脑硬盘里一个看不见的区域”并译出电脑里的内容。
Kaspersky’s report also detailed the group’s efforts to map out so-called air-gapped systems that are not connected to the Internet, including Iran’s nuclear enrichment facilities, and infect them using a USB stick. To get those devices onto the machines, the report said, the attackers have in some cases intercepted them in transit.
卡巴斯基的报告还详细介绍了方程组为了绘制伊朗核浓缩设施等不与互联网连接的所谓物理隔离系统的结构图，并用U盘感染它们而展开的活动。报告称，为了让这些装置进入电脑，攻击者在部分情况下会在传输过程中对其进行拦截。
Documents revealed by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden detailed the agency’s plans to leap the “air gaps” that separate computers from the outside world, including efforts to install specialized hardware on computers being shipped to a target country. That hardware can then receive low-frequency radio waves broadcast from a suitcase-size device that the N.S.A. has deployed around the world. At other times the air gaps have been leapt by having a spy physically install use a USB stick to infect the adversary's computer.
前国家安全局承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄密的文件，详细记述了国家安全局为跨越将电脑同外部世界隔离开的“物理距离”而展开计划，包括在运往目标国家的电脑上安装专业硬件等活动。这种硬件能接收NSA部署在世界各地的一种手提箱大小的设备发出的低频无线电波。有的时候则直接跨过隔离带，通过让间谍使用U盘的方式，直接安装到敌方的电脑里。
Basing its estimate on the time stamps in code, the Kaspersky presentation said, the Equation Group had been infecting computers since 2001, but aggressively began ramping up their capabilities in 2008, the year that President Obama was elected, and began doubling down on digital tools to spy on adversaries of America.
基于对编码中的时间标识的估计，卡巴斯基的介绍称方程组从2001年开始就一直在感染电脑，但在奥巴马总统当选的2008年，该机构的实力开始大幅提升，并在暗中监视美国的敌人的数字手段上加大投入。
While the United States has never acknowledged conducting any offensive cyberoperations, President Obama discussed the issue in general in an interview on Friday with Re/code, an online computer industry publication, describing offensive cyberweapons as being unlike traditional weapons.
尽管美国从未承认进行过任何进攻性的网络行动，但周五接受在线计算机行业出版物Re/code的采访时，奥巴马总统泛泛地讨论了这个问题，称攻击性网络武器不同于传统武器。