HONOLULU — The Obama administration doubled down on Friday on its allegation that North Korea’s leadership was behind the hacking of Sony Pictures as it announced new sanctions on 10 senior North Korean officials and several organizations. Administration officials said the action was part of what President Obama promised would be a “proportional response” against the country.
檀香山——对于索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)所遭受的黑客攻击，奥巴马政府周五进一步坚定了此事为朝鲜政权指使的看法，宣布对10名朝鲜官员及多家机构施加新的制裁措施。政府官员表示，此举是奥巴马承诺的针对该国的“适当回应”的一部分。
But White House officials said there was no evidence that the 10 officials took part in ordering or planning the Sony attack, although they described them as central to a number of provocative actions against the United States.
但白宫官员表示，没有证据证明这10名官员参与了针对索尼的攻击活动的指示或计划，不过他们称，这些朝鲜官员在针对美国的多次挑衅行为中起到了核心作用。
“It’s a first step,” one of the officials said. “The administration felt that it had to do something to stay on point. This is certainly not the end for them.”
“这是第一步，”其中的一名官员称，“政府感到必须做点什么来表明立场。朝鲜人肯定不会善罢甘休。”
The actions may well turn out to be more symbolic than substantive: North Korea already faces some of the heaviest sanctions of any country. The action seemed to be an effort to echo sanctions that the Bush administration imposed eight years ago against a bank that the North Korean leadership used to buy goods illicitly and to reward leaders for loyalty. Those penalties were later judged to be the only actions that got the attention of Kim Jong-il, the dictator whose son now runs the country.
上述行动可能更多只具有象征意义而不会产生实质效果：朝鲜本来就面临着一些最为严厉的制裁。该举措似乎与布什政府八年前施加给一家银行的制裁相似。朝鲜领导层曾通过这家银行非法购买商品，并为向它效忠的官员提供奖励。外界后来认定，在针对朝鲜的诸多制裁中，只有这些惩罚引起了独裁者金正日(Kim Jong-il)的注意，也就是朝鲜现任领导人的父亲。
The more immediate impact of the announcement may be that the administration is not backing down on Mr. Obama’s announcement on Dec. 19, hours before leaving for his Hawaii vacation, that “North Korea engaged in this attack” on Sony Pictures. The president’s statement touched off an escalating debate between skeptics who said the attack came from inside Sony and government officials who said it could be traced to North Korea.
上述决定更直接的效果，是表明美国政府不打算收回奥巴马于12月19日去夏威夷度假几小时前发表的说法，即“朝鲜参与了攻击”索尼影业。总统的声明在一些怀疑人士和政府官员之间出发了日益激烈的争论，前者认为，攻击活动来自索尼内部，而后者则称攻击活动的源头可以追溯到朝鲜。
The security firms and analysts questioning the government’s decision to “attribute” the attack to North Korea say that the public indicators do not back up the case. They contend that the United States may have been duped by ingenious hackers who know how easy it is to hide one’s tracks in the cyberworld.
网络安全公司和分析人士纷纷质疑美国政府将此次黑客攻击的责任归咎于朝鲜的决定，他们说，一些公开的迹象并不支持这一说法。他们说，美国可能是受到了一些聪明的黑客的愚弄，对这些黑客来说，隐藏在网络世界的足迹易如反掌。
But Mr. Obama’s aides say those analysts do not have access to the evidence that persuaded the president, who is usually cautious on intelligence issues, to blame North Korea. They continue to insist that they cannot explain the basis of the president’s declaration without revealing some of the most sensitive sources and technologies at their disposal.
但奥巴马的幕僚们说，这些分析人士没有看到促使总统把责任归咎于朝鲜的证据。奥巴马通常对情报问题非常谨慎。他们还坚持说，如果不公开他们所使用的一些最敏感的消息源和技术，自己就无法解释总统的说法的依据。
The Treasury Department said the sanctions were part of an executive order that Mr. Obama signed in Hawaii against both the North Korean government and the Workers’ Party, which has complete control of North Korea’s politics. In a statement, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew suggested that the sanctions were intended not only to punish North Korea for the hacking of Sony — which resulted in the destruction of about three-quarters of the computers and servers at the studio’s main operations — but also to warn the country not to try anything like it again.
财政部称，相关制裁是奥巴马在夏威夷签署的一项行政命令的一部分。该项命令既针对朝鲜政府，也针对完全控制着朝鲜政局的劳动党(Workers’ Party)。财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)在一份声明中表示，制裁不仅是为了惩罚朝鲜入侵索尼，也是为了警告它不要再进行任何类似的尝试。朝鲜的入侵导致索尼公司主体部分大约四分之三的计算机和服务器被毁。
“Today’s actions are driven by our commitment to hold North Korea accountable for its destructive and destabilizing conduct,” he said. “Even as the F.B.I. continues its investigation into the cyberattack against Sony Pictures Entertainment, these steps underscore that we will employ a broad set of tools to defend U.S. businesses and citizens, and to respond to attempts to undermine our values or threaten the national security of the United States.”
“我们要让朝鲜为破坏稳定的毁灭性行为付出代价，正是这一决心促使我们采取了今天的行动，”他说。“在联邦调查局(FBI)仍在调查索尼电影娱乐公司遭受的网络攻击之际，这些措施强调我们会采取各种手段保护美国的企业和公民，应对破坏我们的价值观或危及美国国家安全的企图。”
In reality, none of the targets of the sanctions are likely to feel much sting. One of them is the Reconnaissance General Bureau, the intelligence organization in North Korea that directs the country’s arms trade, which is already the subject of the Proliferation Security Initiative, an effort started by the Bush administration to intercept the sales of missiles and other arms. But the Treasury noted that “many of North Korea’s major cyberoperations run through R.G.B.”
实际上，可能没有哪个制裁对象会感受到太大的影响。管理着朝鲜军火贸易的情报机构侦查总局(Reconnaissance General Bureau)是制裁对象之一。该机构本就是布什政府为阻止导弹和其他武器销售而发起的“防扩散安全倡议”(Proliferation Security Initiative)针对的对象。但财政部指出，“朝鲜许多大型网络行动是通过侦查总局实施的。”
The Korea Mining Development Trading Corporation, another target, is an arms-dealing organization, with offices in North Korean embassies around the world. Both the Bush administration and the United Nations levied sanctions against it in 2009. The third group on the Obama administration’s list, the Korea Tangun Trading Organization, obtains missile parts and materials. The Obama administration issued sanctions against it in 2009 after a North Korean nuclear test.
另一个被制裁的对象是朝鲜矿业发展贸易公司(Korea Mining Development Trading Corporation)。从事军火交易的该机构在世界各地的朝鲜大使馆设有办事处。2009年，布什政府和联合国均对该机构实行了制裁。在奥巴马政府的制裁名单上，第三个机构是采购导弹部件和原料的朝鲜檀君贸易公司(Korea Tangun Trading Organization)。在2009年，奥巴马政府就因朝鲜进行了一次核试验而宣布对该机构实行制裁。