WASHINGTON — When the State Department condemned Israel’s strike on a United Nations school in Gaza on Sunday, saying it was “appalled” by this “disgraceful” act, it gave full vent to what has been weeks of mounting American anger toward the Israeli government.
华盛顿——美国国务院谴责以色列周日对加沙的联合国学校的轰炸时说，国务院对这个“可耻的”行径表示“震惊”，这个说法充分发泄了几周来美国对以色列政府不断增长的怒气。
The blunt, unsparing language — among the toughest diplomats recall ever being aimed at Israel — lays bare a frustrating reality for the Obama administration: the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has largely dismissed diplomatic efforts by the United States to end the violence in Gaza, leaving American officials to seethe on the sidelines about what they regard as disrespectful treatment.
这种直截了当、不留情面的语言，在外交官的记忆中是对以色列使用的最严厉的一次，暴露了奥巴马政府所面临的一个令人沮丧的现实：本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)总理的政府，已经在很大程度上不理睬美国为结束在加沙的暴力所做的外交努力，这让插不上手的美国官员闷闷不乐，他们认为这是对美国的大不敬。
Even as Israel agreed to a new cease-fire with Hamas, raising hopes for an end to four weeks of bloodshed, its relationship with the United States has been bruised by repeated clashes, from the withering Israeli criticism of Secretary of State John Kerry’s peacemaking efforts to Mr. Netanyahu’s dressing down of the American ambassador to Israel. 
尽管以色列同意了与哈马斯停火的新提议，给结束长达四周的流血冲突带来了希望，但是，以色列与美国的关系已在多次分歧之后受到挫伤，分歧反映在从以色列对国务卿约翰·克里缔造和平努力的尖刻批评、到内塔尼亚胡教训了一顿美国驻以色列大使等事情上。
“This is the most sustained period of antagonism in the relationship,” said Daniel C. Kurtzer, a former American ambassador to Israel who now teaches at Princeton. “I don’t know how the relationship recovers as long as you have this president and this prime minister.”
“这是两国关系史上最长的一段对立时期，”曾任美国驻以色列大使的丹尼尔·C·库尔策(Daniel C. Kurtzer)说，他现在在普林斯顿大学教书。“只要有这个总统和这个总理，我不知道关系怎样才能恢复。”
And yet, with public opinion in both Israel and the United States solidly behind the Israeli military’s campaign against Hamas, no outcry from Israel’s Arab neighbors, and unstinting support for Israel on Capitol Hill, President Obama has had few obvious levers to force Mr. Netanyahu to stop pounding targets in Gaza until he was ready to do it.
然而，以色列和美国的公众舆论都大力支持以军打击哈马斯的行动，以色列的阿拉伯邻国并没有表示强烈抗议，美国国会也对以色列全力支持，在这种情况下，奥巴马总统已没有多少明显的杠杆能迫使内塔尼亚胡停止轰炸加沙的目标，除非内塔尼亚胡已准备好了那样做。
On Monday, the Israeli prime minister signaled that moment had come. Amid signs it was prepared to wind down the conflict unilaterally, Israel announced it would accept a 72-hour cease-fire, effective Tuesday, and send a delegation to Cairo to negotiate for a lasting end to the violence.
周一，以色列总理暗示那一时刻已经到来。在一些表明其准备单方逐步结束冲突的迹象之中，以色列宣布将接受72小时的停火，停火于周二生效，还将派代表团前往开罗就长久结束暴力的问题进行谈判。
Even as the White House harshly criticized the Israeli strike on the school, the Pentagon confirmed that last Friday it had resupplied the Israeli military with ammunition under a longstanding military aid agreement. Mr. Obama swiftly signed a bill Monday giving Israel $225 million in emergency aid for its Iron Dome antimissile system.
就在白宫严厉批评以色列轰炸学校一事时，五角大楼证实，国防部在上周五已按照一个长期的军事援助协议，为以色列军方提供了弹药补给。奥巴马也在周一快速签署了一项法案，将为以色列的铁穹反导弹系统提供2.25亿美元的紧急援助。
For all its outrage over civilian casualties, the United States steadfastly backs Israel’s right to defend itself and shares Israel’s view that Hamas is a terrorist organization. In a world of bitter enmities, the Israeli-American dispute is more akin to a family quarrel.
尽管对平民伤亡表示强烈愤慨，但美国坚定不移地支持以色列的自卫权，并与以色列持同样的观点，认为哈马斯是一个恐怖组织。在一个充满仇敌的世界里，以色列与美国的分歧更像是一个家庭纠纷。
The White House seems determined to tamp down the latest eruption in tensions. “The nature of our relationship is strong and unchanged,” the press secretary, Josh Earnest, told reporters on Monday, pointing to comments by Mr. Netanyahu over the weekend, in which he said, “I think the United States has been terrific.”
白宫看来要决意平息最近的关系紧张气氛。“我们关系的性质没有改变，依然很强，”白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)周一对记者说，他提到内塔尼亚胡周末说过的话，内塔尼亚胡说，“我觉得美国一直很了不起。”
The two statements are part of a recurring pattern for this administration: an angry outburst, followed by calmer words and the grudging recognition that little is going to change in the fundamental relationship between the United States and its closest ally in the Middle East.
这两个表态是本届政府反复表现出的模式的一种反映：先是暴跳如雷，随后是冷静的话语和不情愿的承认：美国与其在中东地区最亲密盟友之间的根本性关系不会发生多大变化。
While tensions between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu only occasionally spill into the open, Mr. Kerry became the subject of very public and vitriolic — albeit anonymous — criticism from Israeli officials for his efforts two weeks ago to negotiate a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas. His proposal, the officials said, was tilted in favor of Hamas and did not do enough to protect Israel’s security.
奥巴马和内塔尼亚胡之间的紧张关系只偶尔地公开表露，然而克里已经成为来自以色列官员的虽匿名、但非常公开和尖刻批评的对象，针对的是两周前克里调解以色列与哈马斯停火的努力。以色列官员说，他的建议偏向哈马斯，没有足够地保障以色列的安全。
Mr. Kerry, American officials responded, based his efforts on an Egyptian cease-fire proposal that had already been accepted by the Israelis. He submitted his ideas to the Israelis, anticipating that they would have concerns. Whatever the precise circumstances, Mr. Kerry found himself excoriated across the political spectrum in Israel.
美国官员回应称，克里的努力建立在已被以色列接受的埃及停火提议的基础之上。他把想法提交给了以色列人，因为预计他们会有所担忧。不管确切情况如何，克里发现自己成为以色列各个政治派别痛斥的对象。
At the White House, officials were incensed by what they saw as shabby treatment of Mr. Kerry, a loyal friend of Israel. In addition to the cease-fire and the peace talks, they noted, Mr. Kerry went to bat for Israel with the Federal Aviation Administration after it imposed a ban on commercial flights to Tel Aviv following a rocket attack near Ben-Gurion International Airport.
白宫的官员被惹怒，在他们看来这是对克里的不公正待遇，克里是以色列的忠实朋友。他们指出，除了停火与和平谈判，克里还向美国联邦航空管理局表示支持以色列，在一枚火箭弹在本-古里安国际机场(Ben-Gurion International Airport)附近爆炸后，航空管理局曾一度禁止商业航班飞往特拉维夫。
Adding to the tensions was a report in the German magazine Der Spiegel that Israel wiretapped Mr. Kerry’s telephone during his peace negotiations. A State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, declined to comment but said Mr. Kerry took pains to protect his communications.
德国《明镜周刊》的一篇报道让紧张气氛进一步增加，报道称以色列在克里进行平谈判期间曾窃听他的电话。美国国务院女发言人珍·帕莎其(Jen Psaki)拒绝对此发表评论，但表示克里确保了自己通信的安全。
Although Mr. Netanyahu has insisted he will not end the operation in Gaza until Israel has shut down the tunnels that Hamas uses to launch attacks on Israel, a senior American official predicted that the tough State Department statement would “box them in internationally.”
虽然内塔尼亚胡一直坚称，在以色列封闭了哈马斯用来发动对以袭击的地道之前，他不会结束在加沙的军事行动，但一位美国高级官员预测，国务院的严厉声明会“在国际上束缚他们的手脚。”
Mr. Netanyahu, however, has shown little evidence of wavering. American officials said that after the previous cease-fire fell apart on Friday, Mr. Netanyahu scolded the American ambassador to Israel, Dan Shapiro, saying the United States should not “ever second-guess him again” on how to deal with Hamas.
然而，内塔尼亚胡没有表示出多少动摇的迹象。美国官员说，上次停火于周五宣告破裂之后，内塔尼亚胡召见了美国驻以色列大使丹·夏皮罗(Dan Shapiro)，教训他说，在如何处理哈马斯的问题上，美国“再也不要自以为知道他的意图。”
Responding to the White House’s outrage, Mr. Netanyahu dispatched his ambassador to Washington, Ron Dermer, to defend Mr. Kerry, saying the attacks on him were “unwarranted.” But Mr. Dermer insisted that the harsh words did not reveal a deeper dysfunction in Israel’s relationship with the United States.
作为对白宫愤怒的回应，内塔尼亚胡派自己驻华盛顿的大使罗恩·德尔梅(Ron Dermer)出来为克里说话，德尔梅说对克里的攻击“不适当”。但德尔梅坚称，难听的话并不是美以关系一种更深度失调的表现。