The number of Americans graduating from college has surged in recent years, sending the share with a college degree to a new high, federal data shows.
联邦数据显示，近年来美国大学毕业生人数激增，持有学士学位的毕业生比例创下新高。
The surge follows more than two decades of slow growth in college completion, which caused the United States to fall behind other countries and led politicians from both parties, including President Obama, to raise alarms.
在此前20多年来，美国大学毕业生数量增长缓慢，增速低于其他国家，包括总统奥巴马(Obama)在内的两党政界人士纷纷对此发出警告，而现在，美国的大学毕业生人数终于迎来了大幅增加。
Last year, 33.5 percent of Americans ages 25 to 29 had at least a bachelor’s degree, compared with 24.7 percent in 1995, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. In 1975, the share was 21.9 percent. The number of two-year college degrees, master’s degrees and doctorates has also risen recently.
美国国家教育数据统计中心(National Center for Education Statistics)的数据显示，2012年，33.5%的25至29岁年龄段的美国人至少拥有一个学士学位，而在1995年这一比例为24.7%，1975年是21.9%。近来获得两年制大专、硕士和博士学位的人数也出现上升。
The increases appear to be driven both by a sharp rise in college enrollment and by an improvement among colleges in graduating students. The trends could bring good news in future years, economists say, as more Americans become qualified for higher-paying jobs as the economy recovers.
大学大幅扩招和大学毕业率提高是这一增长背后的主要推动力。经济学家们称，在美国经济复苏过程中，有更多的美国人能胜任更高报酬的工作，这在未来几年里会是利好消息。
College attendance has increased in the past decade partly because of the new types of jobs that have been created in the digital age, which have increased the wage gap between degree holders and everyone else. The recent recession, which pushed more workers of all ages to take shelter on college campuses while the job market was poor, has also played a role.
在过去10年中，更多人进入大学学习，部分原因在于数字时代创造的一些新工种扩大了学位持有者和其他人之间的薪资差距。美国最近一轮经济衰退促使更多不同年龄层的工作者从低迷的就业市场转向大学校园避难，这也起到了一定作用。
“Basically, I was just barely getting by, and I didn’t like my job, and I wanted to do something that wasn’t living dollar to dollar,” said Sarah O’Doherty, 24, a former nail salon receptionist who will graduate next month from the County College of Morris in New Jersey with a degree in respiratory therapy. “After I had my son, I wanted to do something I felt passionate about, to have a career.”
“基本上，我只是勉强维持生计，我不喜欢之前做的那份工作。我想做一些不是靠一分一厘攒钱的工作，”24岁的莎拉·多尔蒂(Sarah O’Doherty)说。她之前是美甲店的一名前台接待，下个月将拿到新泽西莫里斯郡学院(County College of Morris)的呼吸治疗学文凭。“在儿子出生后，我想做一些让我觉得有激情的事，能拥有一份事业。”
The attainment of bachelor’s degrees has risen much faster for young women in the past decade than for young men. It has also risen among young whites, blacks and Hispanics, though relatively little among Asians, who already had the highest rate of college completion. The share of people with a college degree also varies tremendously by state, with 48.1 percent of people ages 25 to 34 in Massachusetts holding a bachelor’s degree, but just 20.4 percent in Nevada, according to the National Center for Higher Education Management Systems, a research and development center founded to improve management at colleges.
过去10年，获得学士学位的年轻女性比例远比年轻男性增长的快。持有学士学位的年轻白人、黑人和西班牙裔人的比例也出现增涨，而大学毕业率已经处于最高水平的亚裔人数增幅相对较小。各州学士学位的持有比例也有很大差异。据旨在推动大学完善管理的研发中心“美国国家高等教育管理中心”(National Center for Higher Education Management Systems)统计，马萨诸塞州25到34岁的年轻人中48.1%有学士学位，而在内华达州这一比例仅为20.4%。
Despite the recent improvement, higher education experts emphasized that college completion rates were still distressingly low, with only about half of first-time college freshmen who enrolled in 2006 having graduated by 2012, according to the National Student Clearinghouse.
虽然大学学业完成率近来已经有所改善，但高等教育专家强调其仍处于严重偏低水平。美国学生信息交换研究中心(National Student Clearinghouse)数据显示，在2006年首次入学的大学新生中，只有半数人在2012年毕业。
“There are worrisome signs that the demand for high-skilled talent is increasing more rapidly than we’re actually educating people,” said Jamie P. Merisotis, the chief executive of the Lumina Foundation, an Indianapolis group that focuses on higher education, which is releasing a report on Thursday analyzing the federal data. “We can’t expect our citizens to meet the demands of the 21st-century economy and society without a 21st-century education.”
“一些令人担忧的迹象表明，市场对高技能人才的需求增长迅速，增速远比我们实际培养人才的速度快，”鲁米娜基金(Lumina Foundation)首席执行官杰米·梅里索提斯(Jamie P. Merisotis)说。总部位于印第安纳波利斯的鲁米娜基金是一家致力于推广高等教育的私人基金。该基金于周四发布一份了一份联邦数据分析报告。“若没有21世纪的教育，我们就无法期望我们的市民能满足21世纪经济和社会的要求。
The recent jump in college graduation mirrors similar increases in educational attainment during previous severe downturns, economists said.
经济学家们说，最近大学毕业率的上升与前几轮经济严重下滑后大学毕业率上升类似。
“It was sort of one of these ironic good things about the Great Depression, that it got all these kids to graduate from high school, which turned out to be really good for workers later on,” said Claudia Goldin, an economics professor at Harvard.
“经济大萧条带来的有些讽刺意味的好事之一是，它使当时很多学生都能得以从高中毕业，这对他们后来的职业而言非常有利，”哈佛大学(Harvard)经济学教授克劳迪亚·戈尔丁(Claudia Goldin)说。
The G.I. Bill then created a second surge in educational investment after World War II, which also helped fuel the postwar economic boom. Of course, in those cases, Professor Goldin said, education was free or very cheap; college today is not.
二战后的《美国退伍军人安置法案》(G.I. Bill)在当时引起了教育投入的二次激增，同时也助推了战后经济腾飞。戈尔丁说，那时候教育是免费或非常实惠的，但现在的大学教育可不便宜。
Cost may be one reason that college completion has not risen nearly as much for low-income students, many of whom take on large amounts of debt and often do not graduate. The share of 24-year-olds from low-income families who hold college degrees has remained relatively flat over the last several decades, according to Tom Mortenson, a higher education policy analyst with Postsecondary Education Opportunity, a newsletter.
费用问题可能是低收入家庭的大学毕业生比例增幅不大的原因之一，这些学生大多背负着高额贷款，往往无法毕业。研究通讯刊物《高等教育机会》(Postsecondary Education Opportunity)高等教育政策分析师汤姆·摩顿生(Tom Mortenson)表示，在过去的几十年中，来自低收入家庭的24岁公民中拥有学士学位的比例一直稳定在相对较低的水平。
Low-income students are less likely to graduate from high school than more affluent students, less likely to enroll in college after high school and less likely to graduate from college after enrolling. Only about 1 out of 10 Americans whose parents were in the lowest income quartile held four-year college degrees by age 24 in 2011; the comparable share for people from the highest quartile was about 7 in 10, according to Mr. Mortenson.
与富裕家庭相比，低收入家庭的学生高中毕业、进入大学、大学毕业的机率都更小。摩顿生说，2011年，在来自收入为最底层四分之一家庭的美国人中，只有一成的人在24岁时拿到四年制大学学位，而在收入为最高层四分之一的家庭这一比例却是七成。
Some of the recent increase in college completion has come among students who enroll in college, or return to it, at older ages, and experts say any future increases will probably need to come among this group as well, given its growth potential.
近来大学毕业率的增长部分来源于较大年龄入学或重返大学读书的人员。专家们表示，鉴于他们的增长潜力，未来大学毕业率的进一步增长也可能将由这个年龄组带动。
For-profit colleges — despite being more expensive and having lower completion rates than other colleges — are taking in many of these older and lower-income students. Professor Goldin estimates that for-profit colleges account for about one-fifth of the increase in bachelor’s degrees over the last decade.
虽然私立营利性大学更昂贵，毕业率也不及其他大学，但它们接收了大量年长和较低收入的学生。戈尔丁教授估计，过去十年增加的学士中，约有五分之一毕业于私立大学。
“Community colleges just don’t have the money to expand,” she said. “At the for-profits, every person who comes there they’re making money on, so boy, are they expanding.”
“社区大学则缺乏资金进行扩张，”她说。“但私立大学从每个去那上学的学生身上赚钱，所以它们当然在扩张。”
The increase in college degrees is likely to fuel a debate about the wisdom of having so many people flock to college, given high debt levels and stories of unemployed graduates who are stuck on their parents’ couches.
鉴于目前的高债务水平和失业的毕业生不得不啃老的现象，本科生人数的增加可能会引起争议，人们会质疑这么多人涌进大学是否明智。
Many economists point out that college graduates have fared much better than their less-educated peers and argue that rising educational levels will help the economy in the long run. Since the recession began in December 2007, the number of Americans with bachelor’s degrees who have jobs has risen by 9 percent, while employment has fallen for everyone else.
许多经济学家指出，与受教育程度低的同龄人相比，大学毕业生事业发展得更好，并且他们认为从长远看，教育水平的上升有助于经济发展。自2007年12月美国出现经济衰退以来，持有学士学位的美国就业人数上升了9%，而其他人的就业率都出现了下滑。
The unemployment rate for graduates of four-year colleges between the ages of 25 and 34 was 3.3 percent in March, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. For high school graduates in the same age group who had not attended college, it was 11.8 percent.
劳工统计局(Bureau of Labor Statistics)的统计数据显示，3月份25到34岁的四年制大学毕业生失业率为3.3%，而只有高中文凭的同一年龄段的人失业率高达11.8%。
Today’s premium for college degrees is caused partly by increasing selectiveness among employers about whom they hire and screening based on education even for positions that do not require higher skills. But jobs themselves have changed, too.
如今学士学位含金量提高的一部分原因是雇主有越来越多的选择，他们可以根据受教育水平来进行雇佣和筛选，即便有些职位并不需要更高的技能。但工作本身的内容也发生了变化。
“Think about jobs 15 years ago that didn’t need any college education,” said Sandy Baum, a senior fellow at the George Washington University Graduate School of Education. Many of them now do, she added.
“想想15年前的工作，它们并不需要大学文凭，”乔治华盛顿大学教育研究生院(George Washington University Graduate School of Education)高级研究员桑迪·鲍姆(Sandy Baum)说。但现在的许多工作都要求大学文凭了，她补充说。
“Maybe you don’t need a bachelor’s to change bedpans,” Ms. Baum said, “but today if you’re an auto mechanic, you really have to understand computers and other technical things.”
“也许换便盆这样的工作不需要学士学位，”鲍姆说，“但如果你是一名汽车修理工，你真的要很懂电脑和其他技术方面的东西。”