WASHINGTON — President Obama on Wednesday ordered the restoration of full diplomatic relations with Cuba and the opening of an embassy in Havana for the first time in more than a half-century as he vowed to “cut loose the shackles of the past” and sweep aside one of the last vestiges of the Cold War.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周三宣布，全面恢复与古巴的外交关系，并在逾半个世纪后在哈瓦那重新开设大使馆，奥巴马誓言要“解除历史的束缚”，并将这一冷战仅存的遗迹一扫而空。
The surprise announcement came at the end of 18 months of secret negotiations that produced a prisoner swap brokered with the help of Pope Francis and concluded by a telephone call between Mr. Obama and President Raúl Castro. The historic deal broke an enduring stalemate between two countries divided by just 90 miles of water but oceans of mistrust and hostility dating from the days of Theodore Roosevelt’s charge up San Juan Hill and the nuclear brinkmanship of the Cuban missile crisis.
在这份突如其来的公告宣布之前，秘密谈判已经进行了18个月，在教皇方济各(Pope Francis)的牵线下，奥巴马和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)经过电话会谈敲定了最后的协议，双方还同意进行一项囚犯交换。自西奥多·罗斯福(Theodore Rosevelt)在圣胡安山(San Juan Hill)冲锋陷阵，以及古巴导弹危机让世界陷入核战边缘时，美国和古巴就一直陷于僵持对立，分隔两国的不止是90英里(145公里)的海水，还有猜疑、敌意的汪洋，而今天的历史性协议终于打破了这个僵局。
“We will end an outdated approach that for decades has failed to advance our interests and instead we will begin to normalize relations between our two countries,” Mr. Obama said in a nationally televised statement from the White House. The deal will “begin a new chapter among the nations of the Americas” and move beyond a “rigid policy that is rooted in events that took place before most of us were born.”
“今天，我们将为过去几十年里那种过时的、没有为我们增进利益的外交方式画上句号，取而代之的是，我们将开启两国关系的正常化，”奥巴马在白宫通过全国电视讲话如此说道。这项协议将“为美洲国家开启新的一页”，将超越“起源于久远事件的僵硬政策，那些事件发生时我们大多数人都没有出生。”
In doing so, Mr. Obama ventured into diplomatic territory where the last 10 presidents refused to go, and Republicans along with a senior Democrat quickly characterized the rapprochement with the Castro family as appeasement of the hemisphere’s leading dictatorship. Republican lawmakers who will take control of the Senate as well as the House next month made clear they would resist lifting the 54-year-old trade embargo.
此举让奥巴马一下踏入了之前十位总统都不愿涉足的领域，共和党人和一名资深民主党人迅速将这次与卡斯特罗家族的邦交恢复视为对西半球头号独裁政权的绥靖。在下月即将接管参议院和众议院的共和党议员们明确表示，他们将拒绝终结对古巴长达54年的贸易禁令。
“This entire policy shift announced today is based on an illusion, on a lie, the lie and the illusion that more commerce and access to money and goods will translate to political freedom for the Cuban people,” said Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida and son of Cuban immigrants. “All this is going to do is give the Castro regime, which controls every aspect of Cuban life, the opportunity to manipulate these changes to perpetuate itself in power.”
来自佛罗里达州的共和党参议院马克·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)说，“今天宣布的这项政策转变，完全建立在一项幻觉和谎言之上，即认为更多通商、更多获取商品和资金的机遇就会为古巴人民带来政治自由。”“而这么做只会让已经控制了古巴生活方方面面的卡斯特罗政权得以操纵这些变化，让它掌权更加持久。”
For good or ill, the move represented a dramatic turning point in relations with an island that for generations has captivated and vexed its giant northern neighbor. From the days of 18th century presidents coveting it, Cuba loomed large in the American imagination long before Fidel Castro stormed from the mountains and seized power in 1959.
是好是坏也罢，恢复邦交代表着两国关系的重大转折，在几代人的时间里，这个岛国一直让它的北部邻国既困惑又烦恼。早在1959年菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)从山里席卷而来夺取政权之前，古巴在美国的观念里就已经变得愈发重要，美国总统们在18世纪时就在垂涎这座小岛。
Mr. Castro’s alliance with the Soviet Union made Cuba a geopolitical flash point in a global struggle of ideology and power. President Dwight D. Eisenhower imposed the first trade embargo in 1960 and broke off diplomatic relations in January 1961, just weeks before leaving office and seven months before Mr. Obama was born. Under President John F. Kennedy, the failed Bay of Pigs operation aimed at toppling Mr. Castro in April 1961 and the 13-day showdown over Soviet missiles installed in Cuba the following year cemented its status as a ground zero in the Cold War.
卡斯特罗和苏联的结盟，让古巴成了这场意识形态与力量对决的地缘政治热点。德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔总统(Dwight D. Eisenhower)在1960年1月首次对古巴颁布贸易禁令，并于1961年在自己离任几周前与古巴断绝了外交关系，而在此7个月后奥巴马才出生。而在约翰·F·肯尼迪总统(John F. Kennedy)任内，1961年4月旨在推翻卡斯特罗的猪湾行动(Bay of Pigs operation)最终失败；次年，苏联在古巴设置导弹又酿成了13天的对峙，这些事件都奠定了古巴作为美苏冷战起始点的地位。
But the relationship remained frozen in time long after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of the Soviet Union, a thorn in the side of multiple presidents who waited for Mr. Castro’s demise and experienced false hope when he passed power to his brother, Raúl. Even as the United States built relations with Communist nations like China and Vietnam, Cuba remained one of just a few nations, along with Iran and North Korea, that had no diplomatic relations with Washington.
但在柏林墙倒塌以及苏联垮台之后，两国关系仍一直处于冰点，这让多任美国总统觉得如芒在背，他们等着卡斯特罗的驾崩，在卡斯特罗将权力交给自己弟弟劳尔后，美国总统们又一度燃起错误的希望。尽管美国和如中国、越南等共产主义国家建立了关系，古巴依然和伊朗、朝鲜等少数几个国家一样，没有和华盛顿建立外交关系。
Mr. Obama has long expressed hope of transforming relations with Cuba and relaxed some travel restrictions in 2011. But further moves remained untenable as long as Cuba held Alan P. Gross, an American government contractor arrested in 2009 and sentenced to 15 years in a Cuban prison for trying to deliver satellite telephone equipment capable of cloaking connections to the Internet.
奥巴马长期以来就曾表示希望改变与古巴的关系，并在2011年放松了部分旅游管制。但只要古巴还继续关押艾伦·格罗斯(Alan Gross)，美方就没法做出更进一步的行动。格罗斯是一名美国政府承包商，他在2009年因试图递送能够隐匿互联网连接的卫星电话设备被捕，后被判在一座古巴监狱服刑15年。
After winning re-election, Mr. Obama resolved to make Cuba a priority for his second term and authorized secret negotiations led by two aides, Benjamin J. Rhodes and Ricardo Zúñiga, who conducted nine meetings with Cuban counterparts starting in June 2013, most of them in Canada, which has ties with Havana.
在赢得连任后，奥巴马决意将古巴作为其第二任期的重点，并授权两名助手本杰明·J·罗德斯(Benjamin J. Rhodes)和里卡多·祖尼加(Ricardo Zúñiga)牵头开展秘密谈判，自2013年6月以来，他们和古巴方面进行了九次谈判，大多数谈判在加拿大进行，该国与哈瓦那有外交关系。
Pope Francis encouraged the talks with letters to Mr. Obama and Mr. Castro and had the Vatican host a meeting in October to finalize the deal. Mr. Obama spoke with Mr. Castro by telephone on Tuesday to finalize the agreement in a call that lasted more than 45 minutes, the first direct substantive contact between the leaders of the two countries in more than 50 years.
教皇方济各曾向奥巴马和卡斯特罗去信，鼓励双方对话，并在10月份于梵蒂冈举行了一次会议以敲定协议。周二，奥巴马和卡斯特罗在电话中进行了45分钟的会谈，才最后敲定了协议。这是逾50年来，两国领导人首次直接、实质的接触。
On Wednesday morning, Mr. Gross walked out of a Cuban prison and boarded an American military plane that flew him to Washington, accompanied by his wife, Judy. While eating a corned beef sandwich on rye bread with mustard during the flight, Mr. Gross received a call from Mr. Obama. “He’s back where he belongs, in America with his family, home for Hanukkah,” Mr. Obama said later.
周二早晨，格罗斯走出了古巴的那所监狱并登上一架军用飞机飞往华盛顿，陪同的还有他的妻子朱迪(Judy)。格罗斯在飞机上吃了一个涂着黄芥末酱的黑麦面包腌牛肉三明治，然后接到了奥巴马的电话。“他回到了他的所属之地，回到了美国和亲人团聚，回到家里度过光明节(Hanukkah)，”奥巴马之后说道。
For its part, the United States sent back three imprisoned Cuban spies who were caught in 1998 and have become a cause célèbre for the Havana government. They were swapped for a Cuban who had worked as an agent for American intelligence and had been in a Cuban prison for nearly 20 years. Mr. Gross was not technically part of the swap, officials said, but was released separately on “humanitarian grounds,” a distinction critics found unpersuasive.
在美国这边，一共遣返了三名正在服刑的古巴间谍，他们在1998年被捕，该案已经成了哈瓦那政府眼中的轰动要闻。和这三人交换的是一名曾作为特工为美国情报部门工作的古巴人，他已在古巴监狱中服刑近20年。官员们表示，从技术层面说，格罗斯本人不属于囚犯交换协议的一部分，而是以“人道理由”另行释放，关于这一点很多批评家觉得并不可信。
The United States will ease restrictions on remittances, travel and banking, while Cuba will allow more Internet access and release 53 Cuban prisoners identified as political prisoners by the United States. Although the embargo will remain in place, the president called for an “honest and serious debate about lifting” it, which would require an act of Congress.
美国会放松汇款、旅行和银行业方面的限制，而古巴则会放宽更多连接互联网的权限，并释放53名被美国认定为政治犯的古巴囚犯。尽管禁运仍将有效，但美国总统已经呼吁关于取消禁运“诚实而严肃的讨论”，这将要求国会方面有所行动。
Mr. Castro spoke simultaneously on Cuban television, taking to the airwaves with no introduction and announcing that he had spoken by telephone with Mr. Obama on Tuesday.
与此同时，卡斯特罗在古巴发表电视讲话，但没有介绍或宣布他已经和奥巴马在周二进行了电话会谈。
“We have been able to make headway in the solution of some topics of mutual interest for both nations,” he announced, emphasizing the release of the three Cubans. “President Obama’s decision deserves the respect and acknowledgment of our people.”
“我们已经可以在解决一些事关两国利益的问题上有所突破，”他说，还强调了三名古巴人的获释。“奥巴马总统的决定应该得到我们人民的尊敬和承认。”
Only afterward did Mr. Castro mention the reopening of diplomatic relations. “This in no way means that the heart of the matter has been resolved,” he said. “The economic, commercial and financial blockade, which causes enormous human and economic damages to our country, must cease.” But, he added, “the progress made in our exchanges proves that it is possible to find solutions to many problems.”
在这之后，卡斯特罗才提到了外交关系的重启。“这绝非意味着此事的核心已被解决，”他说。“对我们的国家造成巨大人员和经济损害的经济、商业和金融封锁必须停止。”但是，他补充道，“我们交涉中的进展证明了找到很多问题的解决办法是可能的。”
Mr. Obama is gambling that restoring ties with Cuba may no longer be politically unthinkable with the generational shift among Cuban-Americans, where many younger children of exiles are open to change. Nearly six in 10 Americans support re-establishing relations with Cuba, according to a New York Times poll conducted in October. Mr. Obama’s move had the support of the Catholic Church, the American Chamber of Commerce, Human Rights Watch and major agricultural interests.
奥巴马赌的是，恢复与古巴的联系随古巴裔美国人的世代更替——许多年轻的流亡者的后代都对转而持开放态度——在政治上已非不可想象。《纽约时报》于10月进行的一项民意调查显示，近六成美国人支持重建与古巴的关系。奥巴马此举得到了天主教会、美国商会(American Chamber of Commerce)、人权观察(Human Rights Watch)及主要农业利益团体的支持。
At a news conference in Washington, Mr. Gross said he supported Mr. Obama’s move toward normalizing relations with Cuba, adding that his own ordeal and the injustice with which Cuban people have been treated were “a consequence of two governments’ mutually belligerent policies.”
在华盛顿一场新闻发布会上，格罗斯说，他支持奥巴马让与古巴关系走向正常化之举，并补充说，他自己的苦难和古巴人民所遭受的不公正待遇是“两个政府相互敌对的政策的后果”。
“Five and a half decades of history show us that such belligerence inhibits better judgment,” Mr. Gross said. “Two wrongs never make a right. This is a game-changer, which I fully support.”
“55年的历史告诉我们，这样的敌对抑制了更明智的判断，”格罗斯说。“两个错误加在一起不会得来正确。这是一个关键转折点，我全力支持它。
But leading Republicans, including Speaker John A. Boehner and the incoming Senate majority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell, did not. In addition to Mr. Rubio, two other Republican potential candidates for president joined in the criticism. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas called it a “very, very bad deal,” while former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida said it “undermines the quest for a free and democratic Cuba.”
但包括众议员约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)和即将任参议院多数党领袖的参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)在内的共和党领导人对此举并不支持。除卢比奥外，另外两名共和党总统潜在角逐者也加入了批判阵营。参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)将此称为一个“非常、非常糟的协议”，而佛罗里达州前州长杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)则说此举“破坏了对一个自由、民主的古巴的追求”。
A leading Democrat agreed. “It is a fallacy that Cuba will reform just because the American president believes that if he extends his hand in peace that the Castro brothers suddenly will unclench their fists,” said Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the outgoing chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee and a Cuban-American.
一位民主党领导人对此表示同意。“仅仅因为美国总统认为只要他伸出和平之手，卡斯特罗兄弟就会突然松开拳头，古巴就会改革，这是一个谬论，”古巴裔美国人、即将卸任外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)主席的新泽西州参议员罗伯特·梅嫩德斯(Robert Menendez)说。
While the United States has no embassy in Havana, there is a lower-grade facility called an interests section that can be upgraded, currently led by a diplomat, Jeffrey DeLaurentis, who will become the charge d’affaires pending the nomination and confirmation of an ambassador.
尽管美国没有驻哈瓦那大使馆，但那里有一个级别低一些的、被称为利益代表处的机构，它可以被升级。该机构目前由外交官杰弗瑞·德劳伦提斯领导，他将成为待由大使任命并确认的代办。
Mr. Obama has instructed Secretary of State John Kerry to begin the process of removing Cuba from the list of states that sponsor terrorism and announced that he would attend a regional Summit of the Americas next spring that Mr. Castro is also to attend. Mr. Obama will send an assistant secretary of state to Havana next month to talk about migration, and Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker may lead a commercial mission.
奥巴马已指示国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)开始着手将古巴从资助恐怖主义的国家名单中移除，并宣布他将于明年春天参加一个地区性美洲国家峰会，卡斯特罗也将与会。奥巴马下月将派一名助理国务卿前往哈瓦那讨论移民问题，商务部长彭妮·普利茨克(Penny Pritzker)则可能会牵头一项商业任务。
Mr. Obama’s decision will ease travel restrictions for family visits, public performances, and professional, educational and religious activities, but ordinary tourism will still be banned under the law. Mr. Obama will also allow greater banking ties, making it possible to use credit and debit cards in Cuba, and American travelers will be allowed to import up to $400 worth of goods from Cuba, including up to $100 in tobacco and alcohol products.
奥巴马的决定将放宽探亲、公共表演、专业人士、教育和宗教活动的旅行限制，但依据当前法律大众旅游仍将被禁止。奥巴马还将允许更紧密的银行业往来，使得信用卡和借记卡能够在古巴使用，美国的游客们还将被获准携带超过价值400美元的商品回国，包括价值超过100美元的烟草和酒精产品。