Teenagers can be a notoriously sedentary group. Now a new study showed that school may be a big part of the problem.
众所周知青少年已经成为一个不爱运动的群体。目前一项新的研究表明学校也许会是这个问题的主要原因。
The study, which used GPS devices to track when and where teenagers were getting physical activity, found that, on average, they were physically active only 23 minutes a day while at school. Meager as that figure is, it made up over half the 39.4 minutes of physical activity the average teenager got every day.
这项研究通过GPS定位技术追踪青少年的日常活动。它发现：孩子们每天在校里“动起来”的时间平均只有23分钟。这可怜的23分钟还构成了青少年每天平均运动39.4分钟一半以上的时间。
Teenagers are “one of the tougher groups to get active,” said Jordan A. Carlson, a research assistant professor at Children’s Mercy Hospital in Kansas City, Mo., and one of the authors of the new study, which was published in Pediatrics. By some estimates, fewer than one in 10 adolescents get the 60 minutes of physical activity a day recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
堪萨斯城一家儿童医院的助理教授Jordan A. Carlson认为：青少年已经成为比较不爱运动的群体。他和其他作者一起在儿科方面发表了这一新发现。一些测评显示：只有不到十分之一的青少年每天运动能达到美国疾病控制与预防中心推荐的60分钟。
The researchers undertook their study to find out where teenagers were getting most of their physical activity — whether at or near home, school or elsewhere. Their hope was that the information could lead to ways to maximize opportunities for activity and make adolescents’ environments more conducive to exercise.
研究员们发现青少年经常会在家和学校的附近或其它地方运动。他们希望从这些信息上会找到一些方法，这些方法能最大程度地增多的运动机会和创造更易让孩子们活动的环境。
They used data from the Teen Environment and Neighborhood study, which initially recruited 928 adolescents between the ages of 12 and 16 who lived in a mix of urban and suburban neighborhoods in Baltimore, the District of Columbia/Maryland area and Seattle between 2009 and 2011. The participants were split fairly evenly between girls and boys; just under a third were nonwhite.
从2009年到2011年他们让928名青少年参与这项研究。这些12至16岁的孩子们分别来自巴尔地摩的一个城市与郊区结合的区域。哥伦比亚行政区/马里兰和西雅图。参与者被平均的分为女孩和男孩，低于三成的孩子是非白人。
The teenagers were asked to wear an accelerometer and a GPS tracker on a belt around their waist throughout the day, with the accelerometer measuring physical activity and the GPS noting their location every 30 seconds. Making use of tools like GPS helps “reduce the error in our data and give us much more precision” than many earlier studies that rely on self-reporting, which tends to be inaccurate, Dr. Carlson said.
青少年需要全天携带加速器和在皮带上戴上GPS跟踪器。加速器可以测量运动量，而GPS会每30秒确定方位。早期的研究基于参与者自己报告，这种数据往往不太精确。Carison博士说相比于早期的研究使GPS有利于降低错误数据量并且更加精确。
Participants had to wear the belt for at least one whole school day and one weekend day for their data to be included. The current analysis included data from 549 participants who wore the device for a mean number of seven days; many teenagers were not included because they failed to follow instructions or didn’t provide information that was needed, like their school location.
参与者至少要一个完整上学日和一个周末日都佩着这个皮带。现在的分析包括了平均携带了七天的549名参与者。很多青少年的数据没有被采用因为他们没有按照指示去做或没有提供所需的信息，如他们学校方位。
What the researchers found surprised them.
这些发现让他们吃惊。
Even though teenagers spend 42 percent of their waking time at school and get about half their day’s physical activity there, Dr. Carlson said, “They’re getting a lot less activity at school than we thought. We were surprised that they only spent about 4.8 percent of their time at school actually physically active.”
Carlson博士说尽管青少年一天中42%的清醒时间呆在学校，而且他们一半的运动在学校完成。但他们的运动量比我们想象的要少得多，我们吃惊的是孩子们的运动时间只占在校时间的4.8%。
Teenagers tended to be more active when they were near their school or in the neighborhood around their home — but spent very little time being active when they were at home indoors. Girls were less active in most places than boys.
青少年更喜欢在学校附近或家周围的社区运动——可一到了家他们则几乎不动。在很多场合女孩都比男孩更不活跃。
The researchers concluded that teenagers would be more active if there were more opportunity for physical activity at school, and if they spent less time indoors at home and more time in the vicinity of the home and school.
研究者们得出的结论是如果孩子们在校有更多的体力运动的机会，减少呆着在家里的时间并且多在家和学校的附近呆会儿，他们会更加活跃。