WASHINGTON — The top 10 percent of earners took more than half of the country’s total income in 2012, the highest level recorded since the government began collecting the relevant data a century ago, according to an updated study by the prominent economists Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty.
华盛顿——一项研究显示，美国人当中收入最高的10%所取得的收入，在2012年全国总收入中所占的比例超过了一半，这是政府从一个世纪以前开始收集相关数据以来的最高水平。这项最新的研究是由著名经济学家伊曼纽尔·赛斯(Emmanuel Saez)和托马斯·皮凯迪(Thomas Piketty)做出的。
The top 1 percent took more than one-fifth of the income earned by Americans, one of the highest levels on record since 1913, when the government instituted an income tax.
收入最高的1%占据了美国人总收入的五分之一以上。这是自1913年政府设立一项所得税以来的最高纪录。
The figures underscore that even after the recession the country remains in a new Gilded Age, with income as concentrated as it was in the years that preceded the Depression of the 1930s, if not more so.
这些数字显示出，即使经历了衰退，美国仍然处在一个新的镀金时代(Gilded Age)，收入集中的程度与上世纪30年代的大萧条发生之前的年份相当，甚至还要更严重。
High stock prices, rising home values and surging corporate profits have buoyed the recovery-era incomes of the most affluent Americans, with the incomes of the rest still weighed down by high unemployment and stagnant wages for many blue- and white-collar workers.
高股价、房屋价格高涨、企业利润飙升，都在经济复苏时期推高了美国最富裕人群的收入。而其他人的收入则由于蓝领和白领就业人群中失业率高企、工资水平停滞而受到抑制。
“These results suggest the Great Recession has only depressed top income shares temporarily and will not undo any of the dramatic increase in top income shares that has taken place since the 1970s,” Mr. Saez, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, wrote in his analysis of the data.
赛斯在对数据进行分析时写道，“这些结果显示出，‘大衰退’(Great Recession)只是暂时压低了最高收入所占的比例，并没有抵消上世纪70年代以来发生的高收入阶层收入比例的急剧提升。”赛斯是加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)经济学家。
The income share of the top 1 percent of earners in 2012 returned to the same level as before both the Great Recession and the Great Depression: just above 20 percent, jumping to about 22.5 percent in 2012 from 19.7 percent in 2011.
收入水平最高的1%人在总收入中所占的比例，在大衰退前和大萧条前的水平为略高于20%。此比例在2012年回到了上述水平，从2011年的19.7%跃升至约22.5%。
That increase is probably in part due to one-time factors. Congress made a last-minute deal to avoid the expiration of all of the Bush-era tax cuts in January. That deal included a number of tax increases on wealthy Americans, including bumping up levies on investment income. Seeing the tax changes coming, many companies gave large dividends and investors cashed out.
这种提高可能在部分上要归咎于一个一次性的因素。国会在最后一刻达成妥协，避免了布什时代的减税举措在今年1月过期失效，这些妥协中包括了若干项对富人增税措施，比如提高投资收益的税负。在了解到税率即将变动后，许多企业派发了巨额股息，投资者套现离场。
But the economists noted that the trends looked the same for income figures including and excluding realized capital gains — implying that the temporary tax moves were not the only reason the top 1 percent did so well relative to everyone else in 2012.
然而经济学家也注意到，无论计入还是排除取得的资本受益，呈现的趋势都是相同的，这显示出，暂时性的税收变动，并不是2012年最富有的1%人相对于其他人境况好很多的唯一原因。
More generally, richer households have disproportionately benefited from the boom in the stock market during the recovery, with the Dow Jones industrial average more than doubling in value since it bottomed out early in 2009. About half of households hold stock, directly or through vehicles like pension accounts. But the richest 10 percent of households own about 90 percent of the stock, expanding both their net worth and their incomes when they cash out or receive dividends.
更广泛的原因是，富裕的家庭在复苏期间从股市的繁荣中获得的收益比别人大得多。道琼斯(Dow Jones)工业平均指数自2009年初探底以来，股指已经翻了不止一番。约有一半家庭持有股票，其中既有直接持有，也有通过退休金账户等投资工具持有。然而最富有的10%家庭总共拥有90%的股票，在套现或得到分红时，他们的资产净值和收入都会扩大。
The economy remains depressed for most wage-earning families. With sustained, relatively high rates of unemployment, businesses are under no pressure to raise their employees’ incomes because both workers and employers know that many people without jobs would be willing to work for less. The share of Americans working or looking for work is at its lowest in 35 years.
在多数依赖工资收入的家庭中，经济状况仍然是很低落的。由于相对较高的失业率长期持续，企业并没有提高员工薪酬的压力，因为无论是员工还是雇主都明白，有很多没有工作的人愿意拿更少的钱工作。美国就业人口和正在找工作的人口比例达到了35年来的最低水平。
There is a glimmer of good news for the 99 percent in the report, though. Mr. Piketty and Mr. Saez show that the incomes of that group stagnated between 2009 and 2011. In 2012, they started growing again — if only by about 1 percent. But the total income of the top 1 percent surged nearly 20 percent that year. The incomes of the very richest, the 0.01 percent, shot up more than 32 percent.
不过对报告中的99%人来说，还有一点好消息。赛斯和皮凯迪的研究显示，这部分人的收入水平在2009年至2011年之间一直停滞，但在2012年，收入水平重新开始增长——尽管只有1%，而同一年最富有的1%人，收入却大增近20%。最富有的0.01%人，收入则更是激增了32%。
The new data shows that the top 1 percent of earners experienced a sharp drop in income during the recession, of about 36 percent, and a nearly equal rebound during the recovery of roughly 31 percent. The incomes of the other 99 percent plunged nearly 12 percent in the recession and have barely grown — a 0.4 percent uptick — since then. Thus, the 1 percent has captured about 95 percent of the income gains since the recession ended.
新数据显示，收入最高的1%人口在经济衰退期间收入出现了急剧下降，降幅约36%，而在复苏期间收入回升的幅度几乎相当，约31%。另外99%人口的收入水平在衰退期间大幅下跌近12%，而且从那以后就几乎没有再增长，仅提高了0.4%。于是，在衰退结束以来的总收入中，那1%人斩获了总额的近95%。
Mr. Saez and Mr. Piketty have argued that the concentration of income among top earners is unlikely to reverse without stark changes in the economy or in tax policy. Increases that Congress negotiated in January are not likely to have a major effect, Mr. Saez wrote, saying they “are not negligible, but they are modest.”
赛斯和皮凯迪提出，如果经济形势或税收政策不发生急剧改变，收入向最富有人群集中的趋势就不会扭转。赛斯写道，国会在今年1月谈判确定的增税并不会产生很大效果，“尽管效果不能忽视，但相当有限。”
Mr. Saez and Mr. Piketty, of the Paris School of Economics, plan to update their data again in January, after more complete statistics become available.
赛斯和巴黎经济学院(Paris School of Economics)的皮凯迪计划在明年1月更完整的统计数据公布后，再次更新他们的数据。