Along the Maricopa Highway at the southwestern end of the San Joaquin Valley, rimmed by hardscrabble hills and bobbing oil derricks, stretch miles of lush green groves bearing fluorescent mandarin oranges. Once home to cotton fields, this is now the epicenter of an epic agricultural boom that has industrialized a noble fruit and turned it into a rising star.
贫瘠的山丘与上下起伏的井架环绕着圣华金谷，在峡谷的西南端，马里科帕高速路的沿线，繁茂的果园绵延几英里，种满闪闪发亮的橘子。这里过去曾是棉田，如今成为农业增长的核心，以工业化的规模生产这种优质水果，令它成为崛起的明星。
Since that expansion started in the late 1990s, California’s mandarin plantings have increased 10-fold, to 50,000 acres from 5,000. The state now harvests 92 percent of the nation’s mandarin crop, while Florida, troubled by citrus greening disease and obsolete varieties with seeds, has had its share drop to 8 percent, from 66 percent.
这个扩张是从20世纪90年代末期开始的，从那以后加利福尼亚州的橘子种植规模扩大到10倍，从5000公顷增长到5万公顷。州橘子产量目前占全国的92%，而曾占全国产量66%的佛罗里达州，受柑橘绿皮病和品种过时的困扰，所占比例缩减到8%。
In the process, thanks to new offerings and deft marketing, mandarins — popularly known as tangerines — have become a fixture in the American fruit bowl. The country’s consumption of mandarins has doubled, to five pounds a year for every American, while orange sales have declined.
在这个过程中，由于新的供给条件和娴熟的市场营销策略，橘子渐渐成了美国人水果篮中不可或缺的部分。这个国家对橘子的消费量增加了一倍，达到每个美国人一年五磅，约合0.45公斤，而橙子的销量下降了。
Mandarins may seem an unlikely candidate for a marquee fruit. The most complex and flavorful of citrus, they are correspondingly difficult to grow, as demanding as wine grapes in their requirements for terroir and horticultural prowess. At their finest, they are juicy, sweet-tart and intensely aromatic, but many store-bought specimens are dry and bland. Shippers and merchants often store them far past their peak, and the seeds in traditional varieties can put off consumers.
橘子可能看似不是一种户外餐饮水果。它是柑橘属水果中口感最丰富、最美味的，因此也格外难以种植，就像酿酒葡萄一样，需要风土条件和种植技巧。最好的橘子味美多汁、酸甜适中，芬芳扑鼻，但是许多商店里出售的橘子干瘪无味。店家和商户经常把它们储存起来，错过了最好的时期，而传统品种的橘子里面的籽也会让消费者不喜欢。
To get the best of the mandarin boom, it helps to understand the fruit’s history, varieties and seasons.
为了理解橘子何以出现如今的兴盛，就需要理解这种水果的历史、品种和时令。
Native to China and northeastern India, mandarins are one of five original types of citrus (along with pummelos, citrons, kumquats and papedas) from which all others, like oranges and grapefruit, are derived. Until recently, because most mandarins were relatively small, delicate or full of seeds, they remained less cultivated than other citrus in the United States.
橘子原产于中国和东北印度，是五种柑橘属水果中的一种（还包括柚子、佛手柑、金橘和橙），橙子和葡萄柚都属于柑橘属。此前，由于大多数橘子体型较小，多籽，和其他柑橘属水果相比，在美国种植较少。
Several forces converged to ignite the California mandarin boom. Consumers increasingly demanded convenient, easy-to-eat fruits like blueberries and seedless grapes. In the 1970s, Spain started exporting clementines — seedless and easy to peel, with excellent flavor — to the Eastern United States, and that trade increased significantly after a devastating California citrus freeze in 1990.
有几种因素汇聚在一起，促进了加利福尼亚州橘子的繁荣。消费者愈来愈需要蓝莓和无籽葡萄这样方便易食的水果。20世纪70年代，西班牙开始向美国东部出口克莱门式小柑橘(Clementine)，它们无籽易剥，口感非常好，在1990年加利福尼亚毁灭性的柑橘霜冻之后，这项贸易一直持续增加。
Two varieties of seedless, easy-peeling mandarins, adapted to mechanized packing, became available to California growers, and horticulturists figured out how to grow seedless clementines, a type of mandarin, in the harsh climate of the San Joaquin Valley.
加州种植者开始引进两种两种易剥的橘子品种，它们特别适合商业包装，种植专家也掌握了在气候环境严酷的圣华金谷种植无籽克莱门式小柑橘的技巧。
In the late 1990s, two companies with deep pockets and marketing savvy, Sun Pacific and Paramount Citrus (now Wonderful Citrus), gambled big with huge mandarin plantings on the Maricopa Highway, 25 miles southwest of Bakersfield, where they were isolated from other citrus whose pollen could make the fruit seedy.
90年代末，Sun Pacific与Paramount Citrus（如今已更名Wonderful Citrus）这两家资金雄厚、有市场头脑的公司大笔投资，在距离巴克斯菲尔德西南25英里的马里科帕高速路种植大量橘子，并把它们同其他柑橘属作物隔离开，因为那些作物的花粉可能导致橘子多籽。
“It was a crapshoot,” recalled Berne Evans, the plain-spoken owner of Sun Pacific, during an interview in his office in Pasadena.
“这是一项有风险的事业，”Sun Pacific公司平易近人的老板在伯恩·伊文思(Berne Evans)在帕萨迪纳的办公室接受采访时说。
The bet paid off spectacularly. Mandarins from the two companies, sold as Cuties and Halos, now dominate the American market; these and a few other brands of reasonably priced, seedless and easy-peeling fruit have become a staple.
这个赌博获得了巨大的回报。两家公司的橘子分别以Cuties 和Halos这两个品牌上市，如今主宰了美国市场；它们与其他若干品牌一起，令这种价格合理、无籽易剥的水果成了市场上的重要产品。
As often happens, however, industrialization has exacted compromises. There are two main types of mandarin in Cuties and Halos boxes, and the earlier of these to ripen — yellow-orange clementines marketed from November to mid-January — requires a more Mediterranean climate to produce the juiciest, most flavorful fruit. The chief clementine variety grown in California, Clemenules, is larger but less sublime than the original varieties, Algerian and Fina.
然而，正如经常发生的，工业化也带来了损害。Cuties和Halos橘子主要有两个品种，其中较早成熟的是黄橙色克莱门式小柑橘，在11月到1月中旬上市，要想出产最多汁味美的果实，条件需要接近地中海气候。而加州最主要的克莱门式小柑橘名叫Clemenules，个头更大，但不如原始的品种Algerian和Fina优质。
To a greater extent than for other citrus, commercial packing can distort the flavor of many mandarins, including clementines. The washing needed for food safety strips the natural wax off fruits, and to keep them from drying out, packers apply artificial wax. This stops natural respiration, leading to the production of fermented and musty flavors, which are aggravated by prolonged storage and unrefrigerated conditions. The only recourse for shoppers is to taste or at least sniff a sample before buying.
与其他柑橘属水果相比，橘子的商业包装在很大程度上会左右它的味道，也包括了克莱门式小柑橘。食品安全所需的水洗工序会去掉果实外面的天然蜡质，为了让它们不容易变干，包装时还需要人工上蜡。这又阻止了水果自然的呼吸作用，导致产品容易腐坏发霉，在长期储存和无冷藏条件下就更加糟糕。商家唯一的办法就是在购入之前亲口品尝或至少闻一下样品。
Fortunately for consumers, the other main type of mandarins in Halos and Cuties boxes, from late January through April, is better adapted to the San Joaquin Valley climate and less susceptible to post-harvest degradation. These are actually two similar varieties: W. Murcott Afourer, a seedling of Murcott (best known as the Florida Honey tangerine), found in Morocco in 1982, and Tango, bred from W. Murcott Afourer to be seedless even when pollinated.
对消费者来说，幸运的是，Halos与Cuties的另一个在一月底到四月上市的主要品种更加适合圣华金谷的气候，不容易受收获之后工序的影响。这个品种有两个相似品种，一个是W. Murcott Afourer，是Murcott橘子（以佛罗里达蜜橘闻名）的有籽品种，1982年发现于摩洛哥，此外还有Tango，是在W. Murcott Afourer基础上演化出来的授粉无籽品种。
Attractively deep orange inside and out, dependably juicy, easy to grow and wildly prolific, these robust prodigies rule the market in their season.
这两个变种内外都呈美丽的深橙色，味美多汁，易于栽培，极为高产，当季时可以统治整个市场。
The supremacy of the two big companies and two mandarin types has forced medium and smaller growers to think outside the Cuties and Halos box — to exploit seasonal and regional niches, and to market distinctive premium varieties.
这两家公司的霸权，乃至这两种橘子的统治地位，令中小型种植者思考Cuties与Halos之外的品种，利用季节与地域小环境，推出特别的优质品种。
Many of these growers are in the traditional citrus belt in the eastern San Joaquin Valley, from Bakersfield to Fresno, where the red soil imparts robust flavor. Some have focused on offerings that ripen in late December and January, when the main commercial varieties are not at their best.
许多这类种植者都位于圣华金谷以东，巴斯科菲尔德至弗莱斯诺之间传统的柑橘种植带，这里的红土会带来强烈的口感。有些种植者专门生产在12月底到1月上市的品种，这个时段，主要的商业品种都不在最佳时期。
The fine acid balance and rich aromatics of one variety, Page, have made it a longtime favorite at California farmers’ markets, but until recently, large growers neglected it because it doesn’t peel very readily, and looks more like a small, round orange than a mandarin. Since it fills the December-to-January gap, and produces and ships well, it has been planted on more than 1,000 acres in the last five years and become widely available for the first time.
一个名叫Page的品种有极好的酸度平衡和浓郁的芳香，长期以来是加州农民市场上的最爱，但是直到最近，大规模种植者都忽略了它，因为它剥皮不太容易，看上去更像小一点的圆橙，而不是橘子。因为它能填补12月到1月的空隙，加工运输较为方便，五年来，在超过1000公顷的面积上种植，第一次成了大规模供应的品种。
One of the best-tasting mandarins in the world, Daisy SL, has a gorgeously smooth, red-orange rind, firm, intensely sweet-tart flesh that melts in the mouth, and complex, lingering aromatics. Alas, plantings have been limited because it is only moderately easy to peel, low in seeds rather than seedless, and genetically unstable, so that some trees have reverted to seedy form. In today’s market, fruit with seeds have little value.
还有一种名叫Daisy SL的橘子，是世界上最味美的橘子之一，它有着顺滑的红橙色外皮，坚实紧致，酸甜适中的果肉，入口即化，馥郁的芬芳萦绕不去。它的种植一直有限，因为不是特别容易剥皮，有少量橘籽，不是无籽的，此外还有些不稳定，有些橘树容易变成多籽。在如今的市场上，带籽的橘子价值不高。
“It’s not a matter of price,” Mr. Evans said. “People don’t want them.”
“这与价格无关，”伊文思说。“人们就是不想要它们。”
The prized Dekopon mandarin of Japan, grown and marketed in this country as Sumo from mid-January to March, has cornered the high-price niche since its introduction in 2011. Huge, with pebbly skin and a distinctive bump at the top, very easy to peel and seedless, it is intensely sweet but balanced by refreshing acidity, a blend of power and finesse.
价格高昂的日本Dekopon橘子在美国以Sumo品牌上市，时令在1月中旬到3月，自2011年引进以来，就一直垄断着高端市场。它个头大，表皮凹凸不平，顶部有一个特别的凸起，特别容易剥皮，而且无籽。非常甜，但也有一丝清新的酸味，既强烈又微妙。
Despite its rugged appearance, it takes extreme care to grow and pick, so it costs $4 to $7 a pound, as much as a whole box of common mandarins. To ensure that the quality matches the price, the packer recently installed near-infrared spectroscopy sensors that measure sweetness and acidity. Many stores sell Sumos, including Whole Foods nationwide, Wegmans in the Middle Atlantic States, Central Market in Texas, and Town & Country in Washington State.
尽管它外表粗糙，但需要精心种植和挑选，所以一磅要卖4到7美元，和一整箱普通橘子一样。为了确保质量能够对得起价格，近来，包装者引入了红外光谱感应器，测量它的甜酸度。很多商店都售卖Sumo橘子，包括全国的Whole Foods店、大西洋中部各州的Wegmans店、得克萨斯州的Central Market和华盛顿州的Town & Country。
A new type of hybrid mandarin with red flesh like a blood orange, marketed as Ruby Tango, is large and mostly orange on the outside, peels fairly easily, and is sweet, juicy and seedless. A cross of blood orange and clementine bred in Sicily, grown primarily by Sunwest Fruit, it will be sold on a significant scale for the first time this year starting around Valentine’s Day by retailers like Fairway Market and FreshDirect in the New York area and some Whole Foods stores in California.
一种新的杂交品种有血橙般的红色果肉，以Ruby Tango为名上市，个头很大，外表是橙色的，剥皮非常容易，甜美、多汁，无籽。它是血橙与克莱门式小柑橘的杂交，在西西里培育，由Sunwest Fruit公司出品，今年将在情人节期间首次大规模上市，纽约一带的Fairway Market和FreshDirect有售，加利福尼亚的Whole Foods店也出售。
The cutest, most child-friendly mandarin is the Seedless Kishu, an ancient Japanese specialty the size of a golf ball, very easy to peel, super sweet, with welcome acidity. It is so small, expensive to pick and perishable that it seems utterly uncommercial, but two sophisticated specialty growers in Orange Cove have planted 20 acres, some on trellises like wine grapes. There, its season is December, but the crop from the original California growers, Churchill Orchard of Ojai, starts ripening in mid-January and will be available at select stores nationwide (including the Orchard in Midwood, Brooklyn) for about the next 10 days.
Seedless Kishu橘子外形可爱，受到孩子们喜爱，它是一种古老的日本品种，有高尔夫球大小，非常容易剥皮，非常甜，也有适口的酸度。它个头很小，挑选起来成本高昂，易坏，似乎非常不商业化，但是在橘谷有两个特别有头脑的种植者中了20公顷，其中一些要像酿酒葡萄一样种在篱笆上。它的成熟期在12月，但是在加州奥哈伊市的Churchill Orchard果园，这种橘子是在1月中旬成熟，并在全国少数几个商店上市(其中包括布鲁克林Midwood的Orchard店)，上市期只有十天。
Ojai, 40 miles south at the other end of the Maricopa Highway from the big commercial plantings, across a rugged mountain range in a coastal valley, is the domain of small artisanal growers. The area’s fierce summer heat sweetens the fruit, and a wide daily fluctuation in temperature preserves acidity and develops aromatics. But even within this Napa Valley of mandarins, there is considerable variation.
奥哈伊位于马里科帕高速路的另一端，在那些大型商业种植园南部40英里的位置，穿过崎岖的山脉，来到一片临海的谷地，就是小型手工种植者们的天下。这里夏季的高温赋予果实甜度，极高的昼夜温差又保持了果实的酸度，令果实更加芳香。但是，就算在这个橘子的纳帕谷之内，也有各种变量。
“The presence or absence of acidity in the same variety, sometimes grown a block apart, is one of the great mysteries of mandarins,” said Lisa Brenneis, an owner of Churchill Orchard. “Sweet is one thing, but if you don’t have the acidity with it, it doesn’t haunt you.”
“同一品种内，也会有缺乏酸度的情况发生，有时发生在同一个生长区域里，这是橘子最神秘的地方，”Churchill Orchard果园的主人莉莎·布伦尼斯(Lisa Brenneis)说。“甜度是一回事，但如果口味中缺少酸度，就不会令人难忘。”
Ojai growers specialize in Pixie, a late-season, naturally low-acid, seedless and easy-to-peel fruit that reaches an ideal balance only there. Because the variety is highly susceptible to developing off-flavors from waxing, Ojai Pixies are dry-brushed clean rather than waxed. They are available from March to May at many stores around the country.
奥哈伊也种植Pixie橘子，这是一种晚熟，带有自然微酸，无籽易剥皮的品种，只有这里才最适合它们的生长。因为这个品种一上蜡就容易产生异味，奥哈伊的Pixie橘子是用干刷子来清洁的，没有上蜡。它们在3月至5月上市，全国很多商店都有售。
Tony Thacher of Friend’s Ranches, whose family has grown mandarins in Ojai since the 1920s, ships unwaxed fruit by mail order, including supreme specimens of Daisy SL, in season now. Some of the six varieties, packed by his daughter, Emily Ayala, have seeds, and they are not cheap — about $60 to $75 for 10 pounds, including shipping. But they offer a rare opportunity to taste the most flavorful mandarins from a prime growing area, as fresh as possible.
Friends’s Ranches果园出品的主人是托尼·撒切尔(Tony Thacher)，他的家族从20世纪20年代就开始在奥哈伊种橘子了，撒切尔通过邮购，出售未经上蜡的水果，包括如今应季的高级品种Daisy SL。他的女儿艾米丽·阿亚拉(Emily Ayala)种植的六种橘子有籽，但价钱并不便宜，价格是60到70美元10磅含运费。但它们有种独特的滋味，来自最好的橘子产区，非常清新。
The commercial mandarin season closes with Gold Nugget, a half brother of Pixie harvested from February to April or May. It is seedless and has excellent sweet flavor, with good acidity, but the rind is rough, with abundant oil that makes it difficult to pick and pack, and comes off on the hands when peeled. Many growers are planting it anyway, believing that its season and flavor outweigh these drawbacks.
商业橘子丰收季以Gold Nugget作为尾声，它是Pixie的兄弟，成熟期在二月到四五月份。它无籽，非常甜，也有美妙的酸度，但是外皮粗糙，有丰富的油脂，所以采摘包装较为困难，剥皮是会觉得很滑。但很多种植者还是会种它，因为觉得它的成熟期和滋味足以抵消这些麻烦。
As for the future, the mandarin boom may be peaking. Most major growers feel that the market is getting saturated, and that California plantings will soon stabilize. But whatever happens, mandarins have arrived, and now is the time to try them.
在未来，橘子的繁荣将达到巅峰。许多大型种植者都觉得这个市场已经接近饱和，加利福尼亚的种植将会很快趋于稳定。但是不管怎样，现在橘子已经熟了，赶快吃吧。