WASHINGTON — The State Department is expected to release the first batch of emails from Hillary Rodham Clinton’s private email address in the coming days.
华盛顿——美国国务院计划在未来几天公布来自希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)私人电子邮箱的首批邮件。
The emails set for release, drawn from some 55,000 pages and focused on Libya, have already been turned over to the special House committee investigating the 2012 attacks on the United States outposts in Benghazi. The New York Times has obtained about a third of the 850 pages of emails.
将要公布的这批邮件是从约5.5万页邮件中挑选出来的，主要关于利比亚问题。它们已被转交给了众议院的一个特别委员会。该委员会正在调查2012年美国在班加西的使团驻地遭到的攻击。《纽约时报》获得了这850页邮件中的大约三分之一。
They capture the correspondence and concerns expressed among Mrs. Clinton, who was secretary of state at the time, and her advisers following the attacks, which claimed the lives of the American ambassador, J. Christopher Stevens, and three other Americans.
它们展现了时任国务卿克林顿和她的幕僚在此次袭击后的通信，以及他们表达的担忧。袭击导致美国大使J·克里斯托弗·史蒂文斯(J. Christopher Stevens)和其他三名美国人遇害。
The emails also offer occasional glimpses into the private side of Mrs. Clinton’s life, such as her public-radio listening habits and the fact that she was complimented for how she looked in a photo that appeared on the front page of The Times.
这些邮件偶尔还能让外界一睹克林顿私人生活的一面，比如收听公共广播的习惯，以及她因为在时报头版的一幅照片上的形象而受到的恭维。
In response to requests from the news media and Mrs. Clinton, who has said she wants the emails to be made public, the State Department has drawn up plans to release them.
作为对新闻媒体和克林顿本人请求的回应，国务院制定了公布邮件的计划。克林顿表示她希望公开相关邮件。
The emails appear to back up Mrs. Clinton’s previous assertions that she did not receive classified information at her private email address.
这些邮件似乎支持了克林顿之前的言论，也就是她未曾用私人邮箱接收机密信息。
But some of the emails contain what the government calls “sensitive” information or “SBU’’ — sensitive but unclassified. This includes details of the whereabouts of State Department officials in Libya when security there was deteriorating during the 2011 revolution. One email from a year and a half before the attacks that was marked sensitive but unclassified contained the whereabouts of Mr. Stevens as he considered leaving Benghazi during the uprising against the Qaddafi regime because of the deteriorating security.
不过，部分邮件包含政府口中的“敏感”信息或“非机密敏感”(SBU)信息。这包括，当利比亚安全形势在2011年革命期间不断恶化时，国务院驻该国官员的详细行踪。其中一封邮件的接收时间在袭击发生前一年半，标记显示为非机密敏感信息。信中包含了史蒂文斯的行踪。当时正值反卡扎菲政权的动荡时期，由于安全形式不断恶化，史蒂文斯在考虑离开班加西。
“The envoy’s delegation is currently doing a phased checkout (paying the hotel bills, moving some comms to the boat, etc.),” said the email that was forwarded to Mrs. Clinton from a close aide, Huma Abedin. “He will monitor the situation to see if it deteriorates further, but no decision has been made on departure. He will wait 2-3 more hours, then revisit the decision on departure.”
“使团正在逐步撤出（支付酒店账单，把一些通讯设备转移到船上等），”克林顿的亲密幕僚胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)在转发给她的一封邮件中说。“他将观察形势，看情况是否进一步恶化，但尚未作出离开的决定。他会等待两三小时，然后重新考虑是否离开。”
The emails also show that Mrs. Clinton was circulating information about the attacks in Benghazi that contradicted the Obama administration’s initial narrative of what occurred, and that she was concerned about how Republicans could use the incidents to undermine President Obama.
这些电子邮件还表明，克林顿在收发关于班加西袭击的信息，而这些信息与奥巴马政府最初对事件的描述存在矛盾。此外，她还担心共和党将利用这起事件来对奥巴马总统造成不利。
The emails show that even those at the highest levels of government engage in occasional flattering of those above them. In March 2011, Mrs. Clinton received an email from Ann-Marie Slaughter, the director of policy planning for the State Department, who was leaving her position.
邮件显示，就连处于政府最高层级的人偶尔也会对上司溜须拍马。2011年3月，克林顿收到了一封来自国务院政策规划主管安-玛丽·斯劳特(Ann-Marie Slaughter)的邮件，后者当时即将离职。
“Gorgeous pic on the front page of the NYT!” Ms. Slaughter said, referring to a photo of Mrs. Clinton. “One for the wall...” Ms. Slaughter then moved on to more serious matters, including her opposition to arming the rebels in Libya.
“《纽约时报》头版上的图片真漂亮！”斯劳特写道。这里指的是克林顿的一张照片。“可以挂在墙上……”然后，斯劳特开始讨论比较严肃的事情，包括她反对武装利比亚的反对派。