CAIRO — Libyans have overrun a residential compound abandoned by the American Embassy when it pulled out of Tripoli in July, according to a video circulated online Sunday. Dozens of gleeful trespassers could be seen gathered around a swimming pool inside the compound, and a few dived in from the second-floor balcony, all fully clothed.
开罗——周日在网络上流传的一则视频显示，一群利比亚人占领了美国大使馆7月撤离的黎波里之后留下的住宅。几十名闯入者兴高采烈地聚集在院子里的泳池周围，几个人从二楼的阳台跳入泳池，身上的衣服都还穿着。
The video evoked memories of the assault on the American diplomatic mission in Benghazi two years ago. On Sept. 11, 2012, scores of attackers burst into the compound, set fire to its buildings and killed Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens. Three other Americans also died that night.
这段视频让人想起了两年前，美国外交使团在班加西遭遇的袭击。2012年9月11日，几十名袭击者冲进领事馆院落，纵火焚烧房屋，造成美国大使J·克里斯托弗·史蒂文斯(J. Christopher Stevens)遇害。那天夜里遇害的还有另外三名美国人。
This invasion, however, was nonviolent. Like most foreign governments, the United States withdrew its employees from Tripoli weeks ago because of the escalating clashes between rival militias from the western mountain town of Zintan and the coastal city of Misurata. The Zintanis accused the Misuratans of colluding with Islamists, and the Misuratans accused the Zintanis of conspiring in a counterrevolution. Both sides deny the claims.
然而，这次的闯入是非暴力的。由于利比亚西部山城津坦与沿海城市米苏拉塔的民兵组织之间的冲突不断升级，与大部分外国政府一样，美国政府几周前从的黎波里撤回了人员。津坦人指责米苏拉塔人与伊斯兰派勾结，而米苏拉塔人指责津坦人密谋反革命活动。双方都否认对方的说法。
It was unclear if the trespassers at the compound belonged to either faction. At least one young man by the pool was carrying a rifle. But another held what appeared to be a bottle of alcohol, dangling it by the neck as he walked by the pool. Several could be seen recording the mayhem on mobile devices.
目前尚不清楚这些闯入者是否属于上述任何一个派别。至少有一名站在泳池旁的年轻男子持有一把步枪。还有一人似乎拿着一瓶酒，在泳池旁走动时，他把酒瓶举到脖子的高度晃荡。从视频上看，有几个人正在用移动设备拍摄当时的混乱场面。
“Come on, Awad, I feel like you are taking too long,” one trespasser shouted to a companion hesitating before a dive from the balcony.
一名闯入者在从阳台跳入泳池前，有一名同伴对他说，“快点，阿瓦德(Awad)，你花的时间太长了。”
One American who was part of the evacuation said Zintani militiamen had moved into the residential compound as the United States pulled out. But almost all of the Zintani fighters fled the city over the last week after they lost control of the airport, leaving the Misuratans in control of the capital and putting a stop to the fighting. There was no sound of shelling in the background of the poolside video, so it appeared to have been recorded after the Zintanis fled and the guns went quiet.
一名已经撤离的美国人表示，随着美国人员的撤离，津坦民兵组织已进入院落。但在失去对机场的控制，进而让米苏拉塔人控制首都，并结束战斗后，几乎所有津坦作战人员都在上周逃离该市。这段在泳池边拍摄的视频中没有出现炮声，因此可能是在津坦人逃走，枪声消失后拍摄的。
The amateur videographer wrongly identified the scene. “This used to be the American Embassy. God is great!” he said. But people who worked there said the facility in the video was only a residential compound.
这段视频的业余拍摄者认错了场地。他说，“这里曾是美国大使馆。真主至大！”但曾在大使馆工作的人员表示，视频中的场地只是一所住宅。