SEOUL, South Korea — The video footage North Korea has broadcast of what looked like a successful submarine-launched ballistic missile was most likely faked to exaggerate the country’s advances in missile development, according to an analysis posted Tuesday by a research institute based in the United States.
韩国首尔——一家总部位于美国的研究机构在于周二发布的一份分析报告中表示，朝鲜公布的一段看似成功发射一枚潜射弹道导弹的影像片段，很有可能是假的，目的是夸大该国在导弹研发方面的先进程度。
Two days after conducting its fourth nuclear test, North Korea released television footage on Friday that showed its leader, Kim Jong-un, watching a missile rising from the sea and soaring through clouds. The North indicated that the test took place in December, supporting earlier news media and analysts’ reports that it had launched a submarine-launched ballistic missile on Dec. 21.
上周五，也就是宣称进行了第四次核试验两天后，朝鲜公布了一段电视画面，显示其领导人金正恩正在观看一枚导弹飞出海面，穿透云层，进入高空。朝鲜表示这次试验的时间是12月，印证了一些媒体和分析人士早前的报道，即朝鲜在12月21日发射了一枚潜射弹道导弹。
But officials at the South Korean Defense Ministry immediately questioned the North Korean claim, saying that they saw signs that the footage had been doctored.
但韩国国防部的官员很快对朝鲜的声明提出质疑，表示他们发现上述影像片段有伪造痕迹。
John Schilling, a missile expert, raised similar doubts in an analysis posted Tuesday on 38 North, a website run by the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University.
导弹专家约翰·席林(John Schilling)于周二在约翰·霍普金斯大学美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University)的网站38 North上发布了一篇分析文章，也提出了类似的质疑。
“Closer examination of the video itself has revealed inconsistencies that suggest it has been spliced together to show success,” he wrote. Mr. Schilling said that the test had probably been conducted from a submerged barge rather than a submarine and appeared to have failed.
“更仔细地观看这段视频，可以发现有前后不一致的地方，显示出它可能是被拼接而成，以造成试验成功的影像效果，”他写道。席林表示，这次试验可能是从一艘水下驳船而不是潜水艇上发射的，而且似乎没有成功。
He said he had reached his conclusions after examining the video and subsequent independent commercial satellite imagery of the submarine and support vessels involved in the North’s ballistic missile development.
他还表示，他是在仔细研究了这个影像片段，以及随后出现的由独立商业卫星拍摄的有关图像后，得出这些结论的。那些卫星拍摄了参与朝鲜弹道导弹研发的潜水艇和支援舰艇。
“The failed launch combined with testing from a barge shows that North Korea still has a long way to go to develop this system,” he said. “An initial operational capability of a North Korean ballistic-missile submarine is not expected before 2020.”
“这次试验的失败，再加上是在驳船上发射，显示出在这种导弹系统的研发上，朝鲜还有很长的路要走，”他说。“朝鲜研制出一艘具备初期作战能力的弹道导弹潜水艇预计要在2020年以后。”
Fears of North Korea’s missile threats have grown since May, when it claimed that it had successfully test-fired a ballistic missile from a submarine, and released photographs of Mr. Kim observing a missile soaring out of the water. Some missile experts also questioned that claim, saying that those photos appeared to have been modified as well. North Korea is believed to be developing a submarine-launched ballistic missile and mobile missile systems to make it harder to detect the ability to deliver nuclear warheads.
去年5月，朝鲜声称自己成功试射一枚潜射弹道导弹，并发布了金正恩观看导弹飞出海面的照片，之后有关朝鲜导弹威胁的担忧就进一步加剧。一些导弹专家也质疑了那次声明，表示那些照片似乎也被修改过。外界认为，朝鲜研发潜射弹道导弹和机动导弹系统的目的，是让外界更加难以侦查其发射核弹头的能力。