I first met Hana-san in my family’s laundry room. She was stripped to the waist, vigorously sudsing her armpits, having just finished mowing our lawn. Hana was maybe 4-foot-10, a miraculously fit 50-something whose warm smile verged on the beatific. I was a jet-lagged college freshman, grumpy about being forced to spend my summers with my Air Force family at Kadena Air Base on Okinawa, largest of the Ryukyu Islands trailing beneath the southern tip of the Japanese archipelago, half a world away from the thrilling upheavals of the late ’60s.
我第一次遇见英(Hana-san)是在我家的洗衣房里。她刚刚割完我家的草坪，正在赤裸着上身，卖力地揉擦着腋窝。当时50多岁的英，身高或许有4英尺10英寸（约合1米47），她是一个健康得令人惊奇的妇人。她温暖的微笑格外喜人。读大一的我正在倒时差，当时我闷闷不乐，因为要被迫来到冲绳的嘉手纳空军基地(Kadena Air Base)，与驻扎在这里的家人度夏。冲绳是琉球群岛中最大的岛屿，悬垂在日本列岛最南端以南，距离60年代末刺激的剧变风潮有半个地球之遥。
Nowadays, when I read about President Obama’s “pivot” to Asia and about the growing tensions in the East China Sea between China and Japan, I always recall Hana-san.
现在，我读到奥巴马总统“转向”亚洲的政策，读到中国与日本在东海愈演愈烈的紧张局面，我总会想起英。
I doubt that any of us military brats, not my three brothers or two sisters, wondered why a child-size grandma was pushing a hand mower up and down the Dr. Seuss hill we lived on. We had only a vague idea about the spoils of war accounting for not just Hana-san, but the vast green swaths of our golf courses, the concrete rivers of our runways, the aqua diadems of our many swimming pools and even the “O Club,” where we ate fried shrimp and watched floor shows. Had we questioned any of it, we’d have received a blank stare and the answer, “Because we won the war, knucklehead.”
我想，军人家庭的任何一个小毛孩，包括我的三个兄弟、两个姐妹，都没有考虑过为什么只有孩子那么高的老奶奶，要推着手动割草机，在我们居住的苏斯博士山(Dr. Seuss hill)，走上走下。对于战争的战利品，我们只有模糊的概念——那些战利品除了英，还有我们一片片碧绿的高尔夫球场、流淌如河的混凝土跑道、像王冠一样晶莹的游泳池，甚至还有我们吃炸虾看现场表演的“O俱乐部”。如果我们问到任何一个问题，大人们都会面无表情地看着我们，并回答：“因为我们赢得了战争啊，小笨蛋。”
Around one-fourth to one-third of the civilian population died as a result of the Battle of Okinawa, either killed outright during the invasion or later by suicide, starvation or disease. On Sept. 8, 1951, Japan and the United States signed a peace treaty; the day it went into effect is sometimes called the Day of Shame. Though the prefecture of Okinawa (which includes Okinawa Island as well as a number of smaller islands) constitutes less than 1 percent of Japan’s total landmass, it was forced to host nearly three-quarters of our military bases in Japan. Almost one-fifth of Okinawa Island’s 463 square miles, most of it prime farmland that would later become high-dollar beachfront property, was seized by the United States military to use for its bases, camps, training areas and storage facilities.
约有四分之一到三分之一的平民因为冲绳战役(Battle of Okinawa)而死，一些是在美军入侵时被杀，一些是之后自杀、饿死或病死。1951年9月8日，日本与美国签署和平条约，条约生效的那一天被称为“耻辱日”(Day of Shame)。尽管包括冲绳岛及其他几座较小岛屿的冲绳县不到日本陆地总面积的1%，但是却被迫接纳四分之三的驻日美军基地。面积463平方英里（约合1200平方公里）的冲绳岛几乎有五分之一被美军占据，用作基地、军营、训练区和储藏设施。
My family was stationed on Okinawa during the Vietnam War, when the entire island sometimes seemed like either a giant parking lot filled with endless rows of jeeps and steel shipping containers on their way to that conflict, or spring break for sunburned G.I.’s desperate to wring a bit of pleasure out of the island’s many bars and strip clubs before being shipped back to the jungle.
越南战争期间，我的家人驻扎在冲绳，有时候整座岛屿都像是巨大的停车场，一排排的吉普车和集装箱望不到尽头，准备出发奔赴战场；有时候晒得不成样子的士兵，在登船再次走进丛林之前，则会在岛上的许多酒吧和脱衣舞俱乐部里，急切地找些乐子。
For a teenage girl, Okinawa had other amazements: ruins of castles built before America was discovered and a Technicolor coral reef patrolled by clouds of neon fish and grouper as big as a VW. I never considered myself to be what I was: part of an occupying force. Or stopped to consider how I would feel if a foreign force had occupied one-fifth of my home state for decades.
对于一个十几岁的女孩，冲绳还有别的惊奇，这里有美洲大陆被发现之前就建起来的堡垒的废墟，异彩纷呈的珊瑚礁上，会有如云的荧光鱼，以及像大众汽车一样大的石斑鱼游过。我从来没有考虑过自己的真实身份：占领军的一份子；也从来没有考虑过，如果一支外国军队占领我家乡的州长达几十年，自己会做何感想。
Today, Okinawa is the stake from which our military would like its pivot into Asia to radiate. The prefecture currently hosts more than half of the 50,000 American military personnel stationed in the Japanese archipelago, along with Osprey helicopters, F-15C Eagle jets and anti-submarine planes.
今天，美军希望冲绳成为其在转向亚洲战略中，向外投射影响力的发源地。日本列岛的5万美军人员中，有超过一半驻扎在冲绳县。除了士兵，这里还有鱼鹰(Osprey)直升机、F-15C“鹰式”(Eagle)战斗机，以及反潜飞机。
Okinawans have protested our presence for decades. They’ve decried the crime, environmental degradation, economic stagnation and loss of prime real estate, as well as the fact that we’ve made their homeland an inevitable military target. Symbolic of their resistance is the struggle over the relocation of the Futenma Marine base. The proposal to shift the most unpopular of our bases began in 1995, with island-wide protests of the abduction and rape of a 12-year-old schoolgirl by three American servicemen.
冲绳人抗议美军的存在已经有数十年。他们谴责犯罪、环境恶化、经济停滞，抱怨优质的房地产被人占据，也抱怨我们把他们的家园不可避免地变成了一个军事目标。针对海军陆战队普天间基地的搬迁进行的抗争，最能代表他们的抵抗。迁移这座最不受欢迎的美军基地的提议始于1995年，当时三名美国军人挟持并强奸了一名12岁的女童，引发了全岛范围内的抗议。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has proposed moving the base from its current location, in a densely populated urban area, to Henoko, a fishing village near Nago on the idyllic northern end of the island. But Okinawans want the base gone altogether; voters in Nago have consistently opposed mayoral candidates who support the move. The proposal also met with international protest for planning to build two runways on reclaimed land that would jut into the ocean, threatening fish, a fragile coral reef and the endangered dugong — a cousin to the manatee.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)提议将基地从当前的位置，人口密集的城区，迁移到岛上风景宜人的北部，临近名护市的边野古(Henoko)。但是冲绳人却希望彻底裁撤这座基地，名护市的选民一直反对支持搬迁的市长候选人。搬迁提议中计划填海造地建设两条深入海里的跑道，于是也受到了国际社会的抗议，因为那会威胁鱼类、一种脆弱的珊瑚礁，还有濒危的儒艮——这种动物与海牛是近亲。
Okinawans like Hana-san have paid, too much and too long, for a war they had no part in starting. During the 82 days of the Battle of Okinawa, Hana saw her homeland turned into a wasteland of decomposing corpses and mud, then watched as it was permanently occupied by the invaders. She long ago joined her ancestors, but we still have an unfulfilled obligation to her and to her descendants.
英这样的冲绳人，已经为一场他们并未参与发动的战争，付出了太多、太久的代价。在持续82天的冲绳战役中，英眼睁睁地看着自己的家乡变成了堆满腐烂尸体和污泥的废墟，之后又眼睁睁地看着自己的家园被入侵者永久占据。如今她作古已久，但我们对她和她的后人仍有一份没有报偿的亏欠。