WASHINGTON — Senator Kay Hagan, a Democrat from North Carolina who is up for re-election, is admonishing Republicans as “irresponsible and cold-hearted” because they refuse to extend unemployment benefits. Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, has a ready counter that her party’s thinking is “stale and old and doesn’t really address the magnitude of the problem.”
华盛顿——准备寻求连任的北卡罗来纳州民主党参议员凯·黑根(Kay Hagan)责备共和党人“不负责任、冷漠无情”，因为他们拒绝延长失业补助政策。佛罗里达州共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)立即反驳称，民主党的思想“陈腐守旧，没有真正认识到问题的严重性”。
Poverty is suddenly the subject of bipartisan embrace.
贫困问题突然成为两党都乐谈的主题。
President Obama will highlight income disparity in his State of the Union address this month, part of a broader effort by Democrats to push a populist theme for their midterm campaigns against Republicans. Republicans are offering solutions that would give the states and the private sector, not the federal government, more authority to help improve the plight of the poor.
奥巴马总统将在本月的国情咨文演讲中强调收入差距问题，这是民主党人为在中期选举中对抗共和党人所做的广泛努力的一部分，这种努力以推动民粹主义主题为目标。共和党人提供的解决方案则会给予各州及私营领域，而不是联邦政府，更多帮助改善穷人境况的权力。
Each side’s argument is freighted with difficulty. Democrats could push the rich-versus-poor theme too far, alienating middle-class voters and wealthy donors. Republicans may find themselves painted in the same box as Mitt Romney was in 2012, when many voters saw him as indifferent to the concerns of working Americans.
双方选择的道路都充满困难。民主党人可能会在贫富问题上走得太远，因而疏远中产阶级选民和富有捐赠者。共和党人可能会发现，他们会被贴上和2012年的米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)一样的标签，当时很多选民认为罗姆尼对美国就业人口的担忧漠不关心。
“A lot of voters felt that President Obama cared more about them than Mitt Romney did,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who has proposed overhauling the assistance program for the long-term unemployed by linking benefits to job training. “That was a wake-up call to Republicans that we need a positive approach that gives people reason to believe we want to support policies to create more jobs. And then we can draw the contrasts with the failed policies of this administration.”
“很多选民当时觉得奥巴马总统比米特·罗姆尼更关心他们，”缅因州共和党参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)说。“这给共和党人敲响了警钟，意识到我们需要一个积极的方法，让人们有理由相信我们愿意支持创造更多就业机会的政策。那我们就能够与奥巴马政府的失败政策进行对比。”柯林斯曾提议改革长期失业人员援助项目，将失业津贴与职业培训挂钩。
Ms. Collins’s words reflect how income inequality has taken on unanticipated prominence as the campaign year begins. Republicans and Democrats alike, offering different prescriptions, marked the 50th anniversary of President Lyndon B. Johnson’s “war on poverty” declaration.
柯林斯的言辞反映出，选举年伊始，收入不均问题突然出人意料地成为了焦点。共和党人和民主党人一样，纷纷庆祝林登·约翰逊(Lyndon Johnson)总统“向贫困开战”宣言50周年纪念日，尽管他们提供了不同的解决办法。
Republicans are offering a series of proposals to help more Americans rise out of poverty: attaching or reinstating work requirements to safety-net programs, streamlining federal offices, improving training and education initiatives and offering tax breaks to the needy. Democrats are urging an extension of unemployment benefits and an increase in the federal minimum wage.
共和党人提出一系列帮助更多美国人摆脱贫困的提议：附加或恢复社会保障项目的工作要求，提高联邦机构的工作效率，增加培训教育项目，为有需要的人提供税费减免优惠。民主党人正在推动延长发放失业补贴，提高联邦最低工资标准。
Among leading Republican voices is Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the party’s 2012 vice-presidential candidate, who says the government social safety net has “failed miserably.” He has spent much of the last year traveling to poverty-stricken areas across the country and meeting with local leaders and will address the issue in a television interview this week. Next week, he will participate in a summit on social mobility at the Brookings Institution.
威斯康星州共和党众议员、共和党2012年副总统候选人保罗∙D∙瑞安(Paul D.Ryan)是该党的主要呼吁者之一。他表示，奥巴马政府的社保项目已经“遭遇惨败”。在去年的大部分时间里，瑞安访问了全国各地的贫困地区，与地方领导人会面，他将在本周的电视采访中提到这个问题。瑞安将于下周在布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)参加一个有关社会流动性的峰会。
Mr. Rubio on Wednesday stood in the frescoed room that used to be Johnson’s office in the Capitol and declared that Democratic proposals do nothing to attack the societal issues that contribute to poverty.
周三，卢比奥站在国会的壁画间，宣称民主党的提议不会解决导致贫困的社会问题。该壁画间曾是约翰逊总统的办公室。
“Raising the minimum wage may poll well, but having a job that pays $10 an hour is not the American dream,” he said.
他说，“提高最低工资标准可能会帮助他们赢得选票，但拥有一份时薪10美元（约合60.6元人民币）的工作并不是美国梦。”
Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, spoke Wednesday at Brookings to argue that education reform broadly, and school choice in particular, is the surest way to break “the vicious cycle of poverty.” This shift toward antipoverty policy also represents another realization by Republicans as they try to take control of the Senate and add to their numbers in the House: They cannot run campaigns focused exclusively on Mr. Obama’s health care law.
弗吉尼亚州众议员、众议院多数派领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)周三在布鲁金斯学会上辩称，广泛的教育改革，尤其学校选择，是最有希望打破“贫困的恶性循环”的方式。随着共和党正试图控制参议院，增加在众议院的席位，这种将注意力向反贫困政策转移的做法还代表了他们的另一个认识：他们竞选时不能只把注意力放在奥巴马的医改法案上。
“You can’t be unidimensional,” said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Republican leadership. “Yes, Obamacare is going to be very politically important this year. But I also think the bigger picture into which it feeds is also something that we have to be speaking to.”
“你不能只关注一个方面，”南达科他州参议员、共和党领导人约翰·图恩(John Thune)说。“的确，今年，奥巴马医改(Obamacare)将具有非常重要的政治意义。但我还认为，它所瞄准的目标也是我们应该提及的方面。”
Still, Republicans have not shown that they can avoid the same problems that bedeviled Mr. Romney and allowed Democrats to portray him as insincere when he talked about helping alleviate poverty. Some candidates are already finding their less-than-tactful remarks about the poor thrown back at them. Democrats are not passing up any opportunity to make mini-Mitt Romneys out of their opponents.
然而，共和党尚未显示出他们能够避免一些问题——同样的问题曾使罗姆尼深受困扰，而且当他谈论要为缓和贫困提供帮助时，民主党还因这些问题认为他缺乏真诚。有些候选人已经发现，他们对贫穷人口发表的拙劣评论现在被用在了他们自己身上。 民主党绝不会放过任何从对手中塑造小罗姆尼的机会。
In North Carolina, where Ms. Hagan is under attack from several Republican opponents trying to oust her, the state Democratic Party will release a memo this week highlighting what it says is “a long record of demeaning statements against those struggling to make ends meet” by Thom Tillis, the speaker of the State House, who is running against her.
黑根已经在北卡罗莱纳受到了几个想把她赶下台的共和党对手的攻击，北卡罗莱纳州民主党本周将发布一份备忘录，其中将突出它所谓的汤姆·蒂利什(Thom Tillis)对“那些难以糊口的人所说的长篇侮辱性言论”。州众议院议长蒂利什是黑根的竞选对手。
Those include his remarks about needing “to divide and conquer” people on public assistance and dismissing opposition to policies championed by North Carolina Republicans as “whining coming from losers.” After the Republican-led legislature there cut social service programs like unemployment, imposed new restrictions on abortion and put higher burdens on voters, protests broke out in Raleigh.
其中包括蒂利什所说的要“分离和击败”那些接受公共援助的人，消除人们对北卡罗莱纳州共和党所支持的政策的反对，因为“只有失败者才会抱怨”。在当地由共和党领导的立法机构削减失业等社会服务项目，给堕胎制定新的限制并增加选民负担后，抗议活动在罗利爆发。
For Democrats, this is familiar ground. To listen today to speeches on the floor of the House and the Senate, to watch the attack ads on television, and to read the flurry of fund-raising solicitations that flood email inboxes can, in fact, seem a lot like a rerun of the last presidential election.
对于民主党而言，这种情况并不陌生。如今，听着众议员和参议院里的演讲，看着电视上的攻击性广告，读着电子邮件收件箱里大量恳求募捐的信件，其实非常像是回到了上次总统选举时的情形。
“We won that fight,” said Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat, who was unapologetic about borrowing from his party’s old playbook. “I’m comfortable having fights we won,” he added, his face lighting up as he seemed unable to resist his own reference to the “47 percent” comment that helped doom Mr. Romney. “We need to be one nation, not a divided nation, not a segregated nation, and not a nation in which 47 percent of us will be ignored.”
“我们打赢了那场战争，”马里兰州众议员、众议院民主党二号人物斯坦尼·H·霍耶尔(Steny H. Hoyer)说。他对借用民主党过去的策略毫不愧疚。“我觉得赢得战斗胜利没什么不好，”他还说。同时面露喜色，似乎提到让罗姆尼陷入败局的那“47%”的言论是一件情不自禁的事。“我们要成为一个国家，不是一个分裂的国家、一个存在隔离的国家、一个有47%的人会被忽视的国家。”
But Democrats must reckon with the reality that Mr. Obama’s approval ratings are far lower than they were when he won re-election. And the arguments that worked so well two years ago could fall flat come November, especially if the year is dominated by stories about the Affordable Care Act’s deficiencies and produces more uncomfortable revelations like those that exposed the National Security Agency’s spying programs.
但是，民主党必须考虑到，奥巴马目前的支持率比他再次当选时要低得多。而且那些两年前十分奏效的说法很可能不会在11月的选举中再奏效，尤其是如果今年出现许多有关《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)缺陷的讨论，并披露更多令人不快的信息，比如国家安全局(National Security Agency)的监听项目。