A few months ago, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, and Marlene Seltzer, the chief executive of Jobs for the Future, published an article in Politico titled “Closing the Skills Gap.” They began portentously: “Today, nearly 11 million Americans are unemployed. Yet, at the same time, 4 million jobs sit unfilled” — supposedly demonstrating “the gulf between the skills job seekers currently have and the skills employers need.”
几个月前，摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)首席执行官杰米·戴蒙(Jamie Dimon)和“未来工作”(Jobs for the Future)总干事玛琳·塞尔泽尔(Marlene Seltzer)在《政治人》(Politico)上发表了一篇文章，题为《消除技能的鸿沟》。他们在文章开头煞有介事地写道：“目前，将近1100万美国人没有工作。然而与此同时，又有400万个职位空缺”——据说这证明了“当前找工作的人所具备的技能，和雇主需要的技能是有很大差距的”。
Actually, in an ever-changing economy there are always some positions unfilled even while some workers are unemployed, and the current ratio of vacancies to unemployed workers is far below normal. Meanwhile, multiple careful studies have found no support for claims that inadequate worker skills explain high unemployment.
实际上，在瞬息万变的经济世界里总是会有一些空缺职位，尽管同时又有一些工人找不到工作，而目前空缺职位和失业人数的比例远低于正常水平。同时，对于工人技能不足导致高失业率的说法，有多项细致的研究都认为没有证据支持。
But the belief that America suffers from a severe “skills gap” is one of those things that everyone important knows must be true, because everyone they know says it’s true. It’s a prime example of a zombie idea — an idea that should have been killed by evidence, but refuses to die.
然而，但凡有点分量的人，至今仍对美国存在巨大“技能鸿沟”的判断深信不疑，因为他们认识的每一个人都这么说。这是“僵尸看法”(zombie idea)的绝佳例子——这种看法本应该被证据杀死，但怎么杀它都不死。
And it does a lot of harm. Before we get there, however, what do we actually know about skills and jobs?
它造成的破坏则是巨大的。不过，在说破坏前，我们先来说说，对于技能和工作我们到底知道些什么？
Yes, workers with a lot of formal education have lower unemployment than those with less, but that’s always true, in good times and bad. The crucial point is that unemployment remains much higher among workers at all education levels than it was before the financial crisis. The same is true across occupations: workers in every major category are doing worse than they were in 2007.
是的，接受过许多正规教育的工人，失业率会比教育程度低的人低，但这一点无论经济状况的好坏都是一样的。关键问题在于，教育程度各异的所有人群中，失业率都比金融危机前要高。从各职业领域看也是这样：所有职业大类的工作者，境遇都比2007年要糟。
Some employers do complain that they’re finding it hard to find workers with the skills they need. But show us the money: If employers are really crying out for certain skills, they should be willing to offer higher wages to attract workers with those skills. In reality, however, it’s very hard to find groups of workers getting big wage increases, and the cases you can find don’t fit the conventional wisdom at all. It’s good, for example, that workers who know how to operate a sewing machine are seeing significant raises in wages, but I very much doubt that these are the skills people who make a lot of noise about the alleged gap have in mind.
的确有一些雇主在抱怨，说他们很难找到具备所需技能的工人。可是你们拿钱出来啊：如果雇主真那么急需某种技能，他们应该愿意开出更高的工资，吸引有这些技能的工人。然而在现实中，很难看到某个工人群体的薪水出现大幅上涨，你能找到的案例都是跟传统智慧完全不符的。比如，会操作缝纫机的工人现在得到了大幅加薪，这是好事，但我非常怀疑那些大呼小叫说有鸿沟的人，心里想的是不是这类工作。
And it’s not just the evidence on unemployment and wages that refutes the skills-gap story. Careful surveys of employers — like those recently conducted by researchers at both M.I.T. and the Boston Consulting Group — similarly find, as the consulting group declared, that “worries of a skills gap crisis are overblown.”
除了失业率和薪资方面的证据，还可以从其他方面反驳技能鸿沟的说法。经过对雇主的细致调研——例如麻省理工学院(MIT)和波士顿咨询集团(Boston Consulting Group)近来开展的研究——研究人员不约而同地发现，就像这家咨询集团所断言的，“对技能鸿沟危机的担忧被夸大了。”
The one piece of evidence you might cite in favor of the skills-gap story is the sharp rise in long-term unemployment, which could be evidence that many workers don’t have what employers want. But it isn’t. At this point, we know a lot about the long-term unemployed, and they’re pretty much indistinguishable in skills from laid-off workers who quickly find new jobs. So what’s their problem? It’s the very fact of being out of work, which makes employers unwilling even to look at their qualifications.
唯一可能对“技能鸿沟”的说法有利的证据，是长期失业率的急升，这有可能表明许多工人不具备雇主要求的技能。但其实并非如此。目前我们对长期失业者有很多了解，他们在技能上跟那些被裁员后迅速找到新工作的工人基本上没有分别。那他们怎么回事？正是因为没有工作，才使得雇主看都不想看这些工人的资质。
So how does the myth of a skills shortage not only persist, but remain part of what “everyone knows”? Well, there was a nice illustration of the process last fall, when some news media reported that 92 percent of top executives said that there was, indeed, a skills gap. The basis for this claim? A telephone survey in which executives were asked, “Which of the following do you feel best describes the ‘gap’ in the U.S. workforce skills gap?” followed by a list of alternatives. Given the loaded question, it’s actually amazing that 8 percent of the respondents were willing to declare that there was no gap.
那么为什么这个技能短缺的谬论不但能存活到现在，而且还能继续成为“人所共知”的东西？这个嘛，整个过程在去年秋天有过一次很好的展示，当时一些新闻媒体报道称，有92%的企业高管说的确存在技能鸿沟。这个说法是根据什么得出的？一次电话调查，高管们在调查中要回答这样一个问题，“你认为以下哪一项对美国劳动力技能鸿沟中的‘鸿沟’做出了最佳描述？”后面是一系列选项。如此诱导性的问题，仍然有8%的参与者表示不存在鸿沟，已经相当惊人。
The point is that influential people move in circles in which repeating the skills-gap story — or, better yet, writing about skill gaps in media outlets like Politico — is a badge of seriousness, an assertion of tribal identity. And the zombie shambles on.
问题在于，有影响力的人物在原地兜圈子，不停重复技能鸿沟的故事——或者能通过《政治人》这样的媒体平台阐述一下技能鸿沟就更好了——这象征着你是很严肃的，是一种部落身份的申明。僵尸就这样拖着步子继续前行。
Unfortunately, the skills myth — like the myth of a looming debt crisis — is having dire effects on real-world policy. Instead of focusing on the way disastrously wrongheaded fiscal policy and inadequate action by the Federal Reserve have crippled the economy and demanding action, important people piously wring their hands about the failings of American workers.
不幸的是，和债务危机近在咫尺的谬论一样，这个技能谬论正在对真实世界的政策产生可怕的影响。财政政策的灾难性路线错误以及联储的不作为已经对经济构成严重的破坏，急需采取措施，可大人物们不去关注这些，反倒假装对美国工人的弱点痛心疾首起来。