WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans on Tuesday blocked a sweeping overhaul of the once-secret National Security Agency program that collects records of Americans’ phone calls in bulk.
华盛顿——周二，参议院的共和党人阻止了全面改革国家安全局(National Security Agency)的一个电话项目的立法。这一项目曾属机密，作用是批量搜集美国民众的通话记录。
Democrats and a handful of Republicans who supported the measure fell two votes short of the 60 votes they needed to take up the legislation, which sponsors named the U.S.A. Freedom Act.
提案发起人将其称为《美国自由法案》(U.S.A. Freedom Act)。支持它的民主党人及少数共和党人以2票之差未能获得过关所需的60票。
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, worked hard to defeat the bill, which had the support of the Obama administration and a coalition of technology companies, including Apple, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo.
提案获得了奥巴马政府的支持，以及由苹果(Apple)、谷歌(Google)、微软(Microsoft)和雅虎(Yahoo)等公司组成的科技业联盟的拥护。为了击败它，参议院共和党领袖、来自肯塔基州的米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)竭尽所能。
“This is the worst possible time to be tying our hands behind our backs,” Mr. McConnell said before the vote, expressing the concerns of those who argued that the program was a vital tool in the fight against terrorism.
“当下是束缚我们手脚的最糟糕时机，”麦康奈尔在投票前的演讲中说，表达了将电话项目视为抗击恐怖主义重要工具的那些人士的关切之情。
But the vote only put off a fractious debate over security and personal liberties until next year. While a Republican-controlled Senate is less likely to go along with the kinds of changes that were in the bill, which would have ended the N.S.A.'s ability to collect bulk phone call data, the debate could further expose rifts between the party’s interventionist and more libertarian-leaning wings.
然而，此次投票的结果不过是将这场关于安全与个人自由的激烈辩论推迟到了明年。按照这一提案，国家安全局将不能再批量搜集通话数据。尽管共和党人把持的参议院届时不大可能认同其中的改革举措，但这场辩论有可能进一步暴露出该党内部持有干涉主义立场的人士与更倾向于自由主义的派别之间的矛盾。
Under the bill, which grew out of the disclosures in June 2013 by Edward J. Snowden, the former intelligence contractor, the N.S.A. would have gotten out of the business of collecting Americans’ phone records in bulk. Instead, most of the records would have stayed in the hands of the phone companies, which would not have been required to hold them any longer than they already do for normal business purposes, which in some cases is 18 months.
这项提案源于情报领域的前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)于2013年6月曝光的内容。按照法案的规定，国家安全局将告别批量搜集美国民众通话记录的做法。取而代之的是，多数记录将保留在电话公司的手中。提案不要求这些公司保存记录的时间超出商业惯例。在一些情况下，这个时间为18个月。
The N.S.A., Mr. Snowden revealed, was systematically collecting such telephone metadata — information about who called whom, but not the content of what was said — from major American phone companies. The program began after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, based on an assertion of unilateral executive power by President George W. Bush. In 2006, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court had secretly brought the program under its authority and started issuing orders under the Patriot Act to the companies for their records. 
斯诺登揭露出，国家安全局从美国各大电话公司那里系统性地搜集这类通话元数据——相关信息能揭示谁向谁打了电话，但并不包括通话内容。该项目始于2001年的9·11恐怖袭击之后，法律基础是总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)主张的一种单方面行政权。2006年，外国情报监视法院(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)悄然将项目归于自身的权限之下，开始依据《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)签发要求企业提供相关通话记录的法庭令。
Analysts would still have been able to perform contact chaining, but they would be required to use a new kind of court order to swiftly obtain only those records that were linked, up to two layers away, to a suspect — even when held by different phone companies.
按照提案的规定，情报分析师仍将保有进行联络线索分析的能力，但必须采用一种新的法庭令。这种法庭令可以授权他们快速获得通话记录，但仅限于彼此关联的那些，至多涉及与嫌疑人隔着两层的联络人——无论信息是否同属一家电话公司。
In January, President Obama announced some changes to the program, including requiring court approval before a new number can be used to query the database, and limiting analysts to scrutinizing the records of callers two — down from three — layers removed.
今年1月，奥巴马总统宣布对电话项目进行部分调整，包括在数据库中查询新号码前必须获得法院批准，以及将情报分析师审核通话者记录的层次限制从之前的三层减为两层。
The Republican-controlled House passed a version of the bill in May, but it was watered down before passage, losing the support of civil liberties groups. With the bill’s defeat in the Senate, Congress now faces a hard deadline for new legislation since the legal basis for the phone records program, a provision of the Patriot Act, expires in June.
共和党控制的众议院于5月通过了提案的一个版本，但它在过关之前力度遭到了削弱，从而失去了公民自由团体的支持。鉴于它现在又在参议院失利，国会将面临通过新立法的一个硬性期限。因为到了明年6月，为通话记录项目提供法律基础的《爱国者法案》的一个条款将会失效。