Dan Kramer found out his new neighbor was planning extensive renovations last summer when he overheard an architect talking in the backyard next door. Within a few weeks, the reality of how this project was going to affect him literally hit home.
去年夏天，丹·克莱默(Dan Kramer)偶然听到隔壁后院里有个建筑师在说话，由此得知新来的邻居正打算对房子大修。短短几周内，他就亲眼见识到了这次大修可能会给他家带来的影响。
“A brick had fallen down into a chimney stack, hit an obstruction, then burst through the plaster in my wall because it fell two flights,” he said. “It came in right next to a laundry machine and almost hit my friend.”
“一块砖从烟囱里掉下来，碰到一个障碍物，然后砸穿了我家墙壁的灰泥，因为它足足坠落了两段楼梯的高度，”他说，“最后它正好掉在洗衣机旁边，差点砸中我朋友。”
Mr. Kramer, who lives in the West Village in a 19th-century brownstone, is facing a problem increasingly common in the 21st, as homeowners renovate old buildings that share walls and foundational support — namely, how to protect your property (and sanity) when a neighbor does major construction.
克莱默现居于西村(West Village)一座始建于19世纪的褐石建筑中。由于很多与邻居共用隔墙和地基的业主，纷纷开始装修自己的老房子，他就面临着一个在21世纪日益普遍的问题——那就是，当邻居大兴土木时，你该如何保护自己的房产（同时克制自己的脾气）。
People living next door to a house or apartment undergoing a serious makeover must deal with noise, dust, debris, and disruptions that can last for months, if not years, each one causing its share of headaches. But for owners of houses, the demolition process can also affect structural integrity, especially when developers dig deeper to gain space, because height restrictions prevent properties from growing taller. If not handled correctly, that process can cause adjacent homes to settle, so doors no longer shut properly and floors start to slope.
当一套住房或公寓在经历大规模装修时，住在隔壁的人将不得不忍受长达几个月、甚至几年的折磨，无论是噪音、灰尘、瓦砾还是干扰，都是令人头痛的问题。但是对于房主来说，大兴土木的过程更有可能影响建筑结构的完整性，尤其是在开发商为了获得更多空间而深挖地基的情况下。之所以这么做，是因开发商碍于建筑高度限制，不能将房子盖得更高。如果挖地基的过程处理不当，很有可能导致相邻的房子发生地陷，房门再也关不严实，地板也开始倾斜。
According to Mr. Kramer, contractors had not received the proper permission before they started removing bricks from the party wall he and his neighbor share. His neighbor, Ara K. Hovnanian, a real estate developer, is removing a rear addition, lowering the cellar floor and adding a penthouse, work that Mr. Kramer says has already caused leaks in his ceiling, the close call with the brick, and other damage, prompting him to hire a lawyer.
据克莱默说，承包商在未经许可的情况下，就擅自开始从他和邻居共用的隔墙上拆除砖块。他的邻居——房地产开发商阿拉·K·霍夫纳尼安(Ara K. Hovnanian)正在拆除屋后扩建的部分，挖深地下室底板，并加盖一间阁楼。克莱默说，这些工程已经给他造成了一系列损失，比如天花板和庭院的砖墙出现裂缝。于是，他聘请了一名律师。
“Now we’re in the process of entering into a very detailed agreement about responsibility for damages and anything else that goes wrong,” he said.
“现在我们正在达成非常详细的协议，将对各项损失和其它出现问题的地方追究责任。”他说。
Robert Banner, a partner at Ingram Yuzek Gainen Carroll & Bertolotti who specializes in construction law, is helping Mr. Kramer negotiate that agreement, which covers issues like hiring a structural engineer to assess the state of Mr. Kramer’s building, and installing crack and vibration monitors.
罗伯特·班纳(Robert Banner)是专业从事建筑法律服务的律师事务所Ingram Yuzek Gainen Carroll & Bertolotti的合伙人，他正帮助克莱默交涉协议。协议覆盖的事项包括：聘请建筑工程师来评估克莱默的房产状况，安装裂纹和振动检测仪等。
Chris McCabe, a lawyer representing Mr. Hovnanian, declined to comment on the situation.
而霍夫纳尼安的律师克里斯·麦凯布(Chris McCabe)拒绝对此发表评论。
Mr. Banner recommends that adjacent homeowners ask to be added to the renovating neighbor’s insurance policy, and also have their own architect or engineer review the construction plans. That is especially important if your neighbor plans to dig a lower level deeper than yours, as it may require shoring up your foundation.
班纳建议房产拥有者，如果碰到邻居大规模施工的情况，应该要求邻居将自己作为建筑工程保险的参保人之一，同时聘请建筑师或工程师来审核施工安排。如果你的邻居打算深挖地基，这样做就尤其重要，因为你可能需要加固地基。
“When you go down deep,” Mr. Banner said, “you’re creating an avenue for whatever is under the adjacent person’s building — soil or gravel — to flow a little bit. The adjacent owner’s property could move. That’s the biggest fear.”
“你挖地基的时候，”班纳说，“相当于给隔壁房屋底部的东西制造了一条通路，那些土壤、砂砾都会稍许流动。邻居家的房子可能就会发生位移。这是最可怕的地方。”
Joe Tortorella, the president of Silman Associates, a structural engineering firm, says digging deeper is becoming more common in New York City, as new homeowners with lots of spare cash excavate to make room for bigger basements or amenities like swimming pools and wine cellars.
建筑工程公司Silman Associates的总裁乔·托尔托雷拉(Joe Tortorella)表示，挖地基在纽约市已变得日益常见。手头宽裕的新晋有房族纷纷掘地三尺，以腾出更多空间建造更大的地下室或游泳池、酒窖等设施。
Having worked for renovators and their neighbors, he has empathy for the parties on both sides of the construction fence.
他和装修房子的人及其邻居都打过交道，因此对施工护栏两边的人都抱有同情心。
“There’s the issue of vibration and how that may shake an adjacent building and loosen cornices or stone sills or even the foundation,” he said. “There’s also the opposite situation, where nothing is going wrong and just because of adversarial neighbors or hypersensitivity to the construction, the mind starts to imagine all these problems that might have already been there.”
“我们需要考虑施工振动的问题。施工可能会造成隔壁房屋的振动，导致檐板、窗台石甚至地基出现松动，”他说，“也可能会出现相反的情况。本来好端端的，就因为邻居心怀敌意，或者对施工过度敏感，就把家里可能原本就有的问题，设想成在施工中新出现的。”
Mr. Tortorella says that’s why it is in the renovator’s interest to do a preconstruction survey of adjacent buildings, and especially to document the conditions inside neighbors’ homes.
托尔托雷拉表示，正因为如此，装修者应该事先调查一下隔壁建筑，尤其是要将邻居家的内部状况用文件记录下来，留作证据，这样做符合装修者自身的利益。
“Take as many pictures as possible,” he advised. “Otherwise, you’ll pay for every crack that’s there.”
“尽可能多拍些照片，”他建议道，“要不然，隔壁家出现的每一道裂缝都要算在你头上。”
Of course, to do a preconstruction survey, one would need permission to enter the neighbor’s property, which is one source of leverage for anyone living next to a potential construction site.
当然，要做施工前的调查，就得经过邻居的允许进入其房内，这对任何一个居住在潜在施工场所旁的人来说，都是一个筹码。
“They may need to access your land; they may need to come in on your roof,” said Elisabeth Cunnick, the owner of a nearly 200-year-old wooden house in Brooklyn Heights that is about to have company in the empty lot next door.
“他们可能需要进入你的地盘；他们可能需要走进你的房门，”伊丽莎白·坎尼克(Elisabeth Cunnick)说。坎尼克在布鲁克林高地(Brooklyn Heights)拥有一套房龄将近两百年的木房子，而在她隔壁的空地上，即将建起一座新房子。
To lessen the impact of watching a 9,000-square-foot building go up out the windows of her more modest home, Ms. Cunnick moved for a year to a studio in Manhattan. But the project was delayed and she has now moved back to Brooklyn just as construction is to begin.
眼看着一座9000平方英尺（约合836平方米）的建筑即将在自己相对简陋的房子旁边拔地而起，坎尼克为了减少自己所受的波及，搬到曼哈顿的一套单间公寓住了一年。但是施工计划推迟了，她现在搬回了布鲁克林，正好赶在施工即将开始的时候。
Since her lot is wider than her house, she is having a new survey made of the boundaries and has hired Mr. Banner to help negotiate an agreement with her neighbor. She also removed a chandelier, packed away most of her books to protect them from dust, and took artwork off the walls to avoid damage from vibrations from pile-drilling next door.
由于她拥有的地皮比她房屋的占地宽阔些，她正着手开展一项新的调查，以划清边界，同时聘请班纳协助她与邻居交涉。她拆掉了一盏枝形吊灯，将大多数藏书都打包运走，以免沾上灰尘，还将墙上的艺术品取了下来，以免隔壁钻孔打桩时将它们振坏。
Even more important than minimizing the stress of living side by side with construction, she said, is preserving her historic home.
她表示，除了降低隔壁施工为她生活带来的压力外，更重要的是保护她所居住的这栋历史建筑。
“When you live in a house this old,” she explained, “it’s like living in a big piece of 19th-century furniture. I would like to do everything I can to protect it. I don’t know exactly what that is, but I’m trying to figure it out as I go.”
“住在这么老的房子里，”她说，“就相当于住在一个19世纪的大家具中。我想尽一切努力保护它。我不知道具体该怎么做，但我会在实践中慢慢摸索。”
The lot next door to Ms. Cunnick is owned by SDS 155 Lincoln L.L.C. Louis Greco, the company’s manager, said, “It’s always very difficult to build next to an existing residence, but the laws are specific, and just being a good neighbor is paramount.”
隔壁地皮的所有者是SDS 155 Lincoln L.L.C.公司。公司经理路易·格雷科(Louis Greco)表示：“在已有的民居旁边建房一向是非常困难的，不过法规很明确，最重要的就是要做个好邻居。”
For owners of historic buildings, one source of help may be a neighborhood group that promotes preservation; the Historic Districts Council’s Web site (hdc.org) lists organizations in all five boroughs.
对于历史建筑的所有者而言，一个致力于历史建筑保护的社区团体，或许可以提供帮助；历史街区委员会(Historic Districts Council)的网站上(hdc.org)列举了纽约市五个行政区的保护机构。
Andrew Berman, the executive director of the Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation (gvshp.org), recommends that people concerned about a renovation project first try to communicate with the neighbor who is doing the work, and then become involved in the permit-approval process.
格林尼治村历史建筑保护协会(Greenwich Village Society for Historic Preservation)(gvshp.org)的执行总监安德鲁·伯曼(Andrew Berman)建议，对邻居的改建计划不放心的人，可以先试着和邻居沟通，然后参与到许可证的审批流程中。
“In cases where it’s a landmark property,” he said, “the application to do the work often has to go through a much more public process than if it were not a landmark property.”
“如果是地标性建筑，”他说，“那么其改建申请流程往往比非地标性建筑要公开得多。”
The society’s Web site lists applications submitted to the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission for properties in Greenwich Village, the East Village and other nearby neighborhoods; it includes dates on which the local community board or the preservation commission will consider these applications. Interested neighbors can sign up to receive e-mail notifications of updates to the status of an application for a particular address.
协会的网站上列出了向纽约市地标建筑保护委员会(New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission)提交改建申请的房产，房产所在地的范围包括格林尼治村、东村及附近社区；网站上还列出了当地社区委员会或保护委员会将对这些申请作出考量的日期。感兴趣的社区居民可以订阅邮件通知，实时掌握某个特定房产的申请状态。
Mr. Berman says showing up at community board meetings, at which renovation proposals are often publicly presented, is one way for a neighbor to voice any concerns.
伯曼表示，改建申请往往会在社区董事会会议上公开演示，出席社区董事会会议是社区居民表达自己心声的方式之一。
“The problem is, often times people don’t hear about these applications until after it’s gone through the community board process,” he said, adding that community boards issue only recommendations, as opposed to having a decision-making capacity. “But they may be willing to say, ‘We don’t approve this unless you take these precautions to protect your adjacent property owner.’ ”
“问题是，人们往往在一项申请走完了董事会流程之后才听说这回事，”他说，并补充说，董事会只发布建议，不具备决策权，“不过董事会的人可能会说，‘除非你采取预防措施保护隔壁建筑的房主，否则我们不予通过。’”
The New York City Department of Buildings (nyc.gov/buildings) also offers resources for neighbors concerned about construction. On its Web site, you can enter an address and get information about jobs that have been filed for it, a record of any complaints or violations, and whether they have been resolved.
纽约市房屋局(New York City Department of Buildings)(nyc.gov/buildings)也为关心施工计划的社区居民提供资源。在其网站上，你可以输入一个地址，查询有关该处房产的施工申请文件、投诉或违规记录，以及相关问题有没有得到处理。
But homeowners say the site can be difficult to navigate if you are in search of useful information like plans, and some of the terminology can be hard to decipher if you’re not a builder or an architect.
但是业主们表示，这个网站很不好用，要想查找施工计划之类的有用信息很难操作，而且有些术语除了建筑师之外，其他人也很难搞懂。
Anthony Sclafani, a department spokesman, says that plans are generally available at borough offices after a project has been approved, but that interested parties can find a rendering of the proposed changes by looking up the zoning document. (After entering the property’s address at the building department Web site, click on “jobs/filings,” select the most recent filing, choose the “virtual jobs folder,” then select “zoning document-ZD1.”)
房屋局发言人安东尼·斯克拉法尼(Anthony Sclafani)表示，一项施工计划在通过后，可在行政区的市政机构查询，不过分区规划文件上也可以找到有关改建申请的决议。具体做法是：登录房屋局的网站，输入待查房产地址，点击“施工/档案”(jobs/filings)、选择最新的文件，选择“虚拟施工文件夹”(virtual jobs folder)，然后选择“分区文件-ZD1”(zoning document-ZD1)。
The city has introduced a mobile app (available for iPhone and Android devices) that provides access to building data.
市政当局还推出了一款手机应用（适用于iPhone和安卓系统的手机），以便于用户访问建筑数据。
Using these digital tools, neighbors can find out whether the city has issued an after-hours variance permit for a construction project, allowing work outside the normal hours of 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., Monday through Friday.
通过使用这些数字化工具，社区居民可以查询市政当局有没有为某项特定的施工计划授予“特许变更”（variance，美国土地分区使用法令的一种弹性机制。申请房主必须证明，由于特殊情况，土地依现有规定无法合理使用，而这种特殊情况并非房主造成的，且核发特许变更并不会为公众带来实质的不利——译注），比如允许施工在标准工时（即使周一到周五早7点至晚6点）以外的时间进行。
To report a violation — like saws screeching on a Sunday morning or safety concerns — Mr. Sclafani recommended that New Yorkers call 311, which may result in the arrival of a buildings department inspector and possibly, a stop-work order or fines.
如果想举报违规行为（比如周日清晨的锯子声扰民）或提出安全担忧，斯克拉法尼建议纽约市民拨打311，房屋局会派稽查员视察现场，或许还会发出停工命令或对施工方处以罚款。
Co-op or condo dwellers often have more protections than the owner of house, because of the alteration agreements that many larger buildings require when a resident undertakes a renovation project.
合作公寓(Co-op)或共管公寓(condo)的居民，往往比独栋别墅的房主享有更多保护，因为在许多大型建筑中，一旦有一户居民准备实施改建计划，就需签订改建协议。
Eva Talel, a partner in the law firm Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, says these agreements vary, but should include details like how long the construction will last, what hours it is to be allowed, how the work will be monitored, what dust containment measures will be taken, how much the security deposit will cost, and what the insurance requirements will be.
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan律师事务所的合伙人伊娃·塔雷尔(Eva Talel)表示，虽然不同的改建协议条款不同，但它们都需要包含如下细节：工期有多长、哪些时段施工比较合适、施工进程将如何监督、施工方将采取哪些防尘措施、保证金要出多少、需要购买哪些保险。
One agreement she negotiated — to be used by a building’s managing agent for all renovation projects, so every shareholder is subject to the same rules — is nearly 70 pages.
塔雷尔曾谈妥一份篇幅长达70页的协议，其使用者是一栋大楼的托管经纪公司，适用对象是大楼内的所有施工计划。协议签订后，所有股东都受到同一套规则的约束。
“The list of horrible things that can happen in the course of alterations is endless,” Ms. Talel said, citing a minor paint job that turned into a fire when a worker left a blowtorch too close to the paint. “Not only was that apartment gutted by the fire, but the neighbors suffered smoke and water damage after the fire department came.”
“在房屋改建的过程中，什么样的坏事都有可能发生。”说着，塔雷尔举了个例子——有个工人把喷枪放得离油漆太近，结果一个不起眼的刷漆工作就酿成了一场火灾，“不仅房子内部被烧毁，邻居家也进了浓烟，还被消防员的高压水枪冲坏了。”
Even though most renovations cause neighbors only temporary distress, she said, having an agreement can prevent problems like the lack of proper soundproofing in a new floor, as well as provide a path to a resolution if something does go wrong.
塔雷尔表示，尽管大多数施工给周边居民带来的烦扰只是暂时的，但是事先签好协议就能免除一些后患——比如新盖的楼层隔音不好。就算出了问题，也能依照章法办事。
“It can end up in a lot of contentiousness,” she said of the building process, “which is not what one wants in a multifamily living arrangement.”
“施工进行到最后阶段，邻里之间可能会发生许多争吵，”塔雷尔在谈及施工过程时说，“在一栋多户共居式的住宅里，这种情况是人们不愿意看到的。”
Next-door neighbors living in houses also have a delicate relationship to navigate. One woman who lives with her husband in an early 19th-century house in TriBeCa says they now regret not having asked for a written agreement when their neighbor began extensive renovations.
住在独栋别墅里的邻居，关系也很难处理。一位女士同丈夫住在翠贝卡区(TriBeCa)的一栋建于19世纪初期的别墅里。她说自己很后悔，当初没在邻居开始大规模施工之前要求与之签订书面协议。
Although everyone started out with good intentions, and both sides tried to be accommodating when problems arose (like cracks in the walls and doors that would no longer open), she said good will eroded as the project dragged on for years.
她表示，尽管每个人的出发点都是好的，双方在出现问题时也都会尽力解决，但是眼看着施工计划一拖就是好几年，当初的善意就会烟消云散。
Speaking anonymously to avoid further discord, she suggested that anyone in a similar situation with a neighbor “get things in writing — and find a structural engineer that you trust and believe is on your side.”
为了避免日后的争端，她不愿意透露自己的姓名。她建议遇到类似情况的人，可以“把商议好的结果用白纸黑字记录下来——然后找一个信得过的、站在你这边的建筑工程师。”
But there are inevitably risks when centuries-old buildings are subject to the side effects of major construction, and not all damage can be repaired.
不过，当一座数百年的老宅就坐落在一处大型施工场地旁边，受其施工影响时，势必面临一定的风险，而且并不是所有损坏都可以修复。
“We know that our house changed, and it has changed forever,” she said. “That’s not something that can be quantified.”
“我们知道自己的房子发生了变化，这是恢复不了的，”她说，“这不是什么可以量化的问题。”