WASHINGTON — Just a month before a peace conference that will seek an end to the grinding civil war in Syria, the Obama administration’s decision to suspend the delivery of nonlethal aid to the moderate opposition demonstrated again the frustrations of trying to cultivate a viable alternative to President Bashar al-Assad.
华盛顿——就在距离寻求终结旷日持久的叙利亚内战的和平大会开幕仅一个月的时候，奥巴马政府决定暂停向温和反对派交付非致命性物资援助。这再次证明了，培养合适的巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)替代者的尝试有多么艰难。
The administration acted after several warehouses of American-supplied equipment were seized Friday by the Islamic Front, a coalition of Islamist fighters who have broken with the moderate, American-backed opposition, but who also battle Al Qaeda.
上周五，几处美援设备仓库被伊斯兰阵线(Islamic Front)接管，奥巴马政府于是采取了暂停措施。伊斯兰阵线是伊斯兰派武装的联盟，已与美国支持的温和反对派分裂，但也会对抗基地组织(Al Qaeda)。
Administration officials said that the suspension was temporary and that aid could flow again. Under the administration’s division of labor, the State Department is in charge of supplying nonlethal aid to Syria while the Central Intelligence Agency runs a covert program to arm and train Syrian rebels.
奥巴马政府的官员称，暂停是临时性的，援助可能还会恢复。按照政府的分工，国务院负责向叙利亚提供非致命性物资，中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)则开展了一项武装并培训叙利亚反对派的秘密计划。
But with rebels feuding with each other instead of concentrating on fighting Mr. Assad, and with the United States still groping for a reliable partner in Syria, the odds of any peace conference breaking the cycle of bloodshed appeared to have dimmed.
然而，反对派未能集中对付阿萨德而是互相争斗，美国又仍在搜寻可靠的叙利亚伙伴，在这种形势下，通过和平大会来打破流血循环的可能性似乎已经减退。
For the White House, which has pinned its hopes for Syria on a political solution, the fracturing of the opposition raises a number of thorny questions, including whether the United States should work more closely with Islamist forces as it sometimes did in Iraq.
白宫已将叙利亚问题的希望寄托在政治解决上，反对派的分裂却给其造成了一系列棘手问题，比如美国是否应参照偶尔在伊拉克采取的策略，与伊斯兰派势力更密切地合作。
Some experts on Syria said the episode called into question not only the effectiveness of the moderate groups the United States has been supporting in Syria for the last two years but also the administration’s broader strategy for forcing Mr. Assad to yield power.
有叙利亚问题专家称，这起事件引发了一些疑问，不仅是美国过去两年间一直支持的叙利亚温和派团体的有效性问题，还有奥巴马政府推动阿萨德交出权力的宏观策略问题。
“For all practical purposes, the moderate armed opposition that the administration really wanted to support — albeit in a hesitant and halfhearted way — is now on the sidelines,” said Frederic C. Hof, who as a State Department official who worked on plans for a political transition in Syria and is now a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council.
“实际上，奥巴马政府很想支持的——尽管犹豫不决、半心半意——温和武装反对派现在处于边缘地位，”弗雷德里克·C·霍夫(Frederic C. Hof)说。他曾是国务院官员，参与过叙利亚政治过渡方案的起草工作，如今在大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)任高级研究员。
Under such circumstances, Mr. Hof said, the prospects for major progress at the peace conference were “pretty grim.”
霍夫称，在这种情况下，和平大会取得重大进展的前景“相当渺茫”。
In the murky events of last Friday, some opposition officials said, the Islamic Front also seized the northern Syrian headquarters of Gen. Salim Idris, the leader of the military wing of the moderate Syrian opposition, formally known as the Supreme Military Council. According to American officials, General Idris was in Turkey, where he has a house, when the headquarters was taken over and then left for Qatar, which has provided money and weapons to the resistance. He is now said to be back in Turkey.
上周五的事件扑朔迷离，一些叙利亚反对派官员称，伊斯兰阵线还接管了萨利姆·伊德里斯将军(Gen. Salim Idris)在该国北部的总部。伊德里斯领导着温和叙利亚反对派的军事力量，也就是所谓的最高军事委员会(Supreme Military Council)。根据美方官员的说法，总部被占领的时候，伊德里斯在他土耳其的家中，随后前往了一直提供资金与武器援助的卡塔尔。据说，他现在回到了土耳其。
American officials are still struggling to assess what the internecine battle means. “If we’re able to understand that, we could revert to the provision of nonlethal assistance,” a senior administration official said.
美国官方仍难以评估这种内耗背后的含义。“如果我们能了解清楚，我们就可能重新提供非致命性物资援助，”一名高级政府官员称。
The United States, the official said, would not rule out talks with the Islamic Front but said it was too soon to determine whether the administration would abandon its insistence that all American and allied assistance be funneled through the Supreme Military Council.
这名官员表示，美国不排除与伊斯兰阵线会谈的可能性，不过奥巴马政府是否会放弃目前的立场还很难说。奥巴马政府坚持，美国及其盟友的所有援助均需经过最高军事委员会。
For months, Secretary of State John Kerry has argued that a political solution is the only answer for a civil war that has already led to the death of more than 100,000 Syrians. His goal is to encourage a handover of power from Mr. Assad to a transitional government.
多个月来，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)反复主张，政治解决是叙利亚内战问题的唯一答案。战争已导致叙利亚的死亡人数超过了10万。克里的目标是鼓励阿萨德将权力移交给过渡政府。
But Mr. Assad, who has received substantial military support from Iran and Russia, seems as entrenched as ever.
然而，阿萨德不断从伊朗与俄罗斯那里获得军事支持，似乎地位仍相当稳固。
At the same time, the opposition groups that the Obama administration has designated as the legitimate representatives of the Syrian people appear to have grown weaker, in part because of their tenuous ties to many of the rebel fighters inside the country and because of the lukewarm support they have received from the West.
与此同时，奥巴马政府指定的能合法代表叙利亚民众的反对派团体似乎变得更加弱小了，部分原因在于，它们与国内的许多反对派武装关系脆弱，而且从西方获取的支持也乏力。
The Syria peace conference, which Mr. Kerry originally thought would be held last May, is now scheduled for Jan. 22. It had been planned for Geneva but may be shifted to the lakeside Swiss town of Montreux because Geneva hotel rooms have been booked for a luxury watch fair.
按照克里最初的设想，叙利亚和平大会本应于今年5月举行，不过目前的计划是在明年1月22日。原定的地点在日内瓦，但可能换到瑞士的湖畔小城蒙特勒，因为日内瓦的酒店房间因为一个奢侈钟表展而被预订一空。
A major aim of the meeting is to begin the process of identifying Syrians who might serve in a transitional governing body that would run the country if Mr. Assad yielded power.
会议的一大主旨是，开始甄选可进入叙利亚过渡执政机构的人选。一旦阿萨德交出权力，该机构将负责国家的管理。
But as the Islamic fighters have begun to play an increasingly important role in the fight against Mr. Assad, the administration is faced with the choice of whether to include their representatives in any transitional government and perhaps even give them military aid.
可是，随着伊斯兰派武装开始在对抗阿萨德的斗争中发挥日趋重要的作用，奥巴马政府面临着抉择：是否要把他们的代表纳入任何过渡政府中，或许甚至还有是否要给他们提供军事援助。
“It puts the administration into a situation of having to choose between supporting moderate groups or effective ones,” said Andrew J. Tabler, an expert on Syria at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
“这把政府推进了两难的境地，必须要选择是支持温和派，还是支持有战斗力的团体，”华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)的叙利亚问题专家安德鲁·J·泰布勒(Andrew J. Tabler)说。
The impact of the aid suspension was hard to gauge, as rebels have routinely complained that aid from the United States, Britain and their allies is too little, too late and has had little influence on the conflict.
暂停援助的影响难以衡量，而反对派经常抱怨，来自美国、英国及其盟国的援助太少又太迟，对战事没起到什么作用。
Khatab, the commander of a small Free Syrian Army battalion, interviewed by phone in Turkey, said that the suspension would hamper fighters like his. But he added it would ultimately harm the Islamic Front as well, suggesting that whatever the official policies, the Islamic Front had cooperated with the Supreme Military Council and received supplies through it.
叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)一支小队伍的指挥官哈塔布(Khatab)在土耳其接受电话采访称，暂停援助一事不利于他这样的武装。不过，他还表示，这最终也会损害到伊斯兰阵线。他指出，无论官方政策如何，伊斯兰阵线一直与最高军事委员会有合作，并从那里获得补给。
Many antigovernment activists reacted with scorn and bravado, saying they did not care about the suspension of aid that they believed had been mostly for show.
许多反政府活动人士的反应交织着嘲讽与逞能，自称这种援助在他们看来就是做做样子，暂停了也无所谓。
“What nonlethal assistance?” said Moaz, an activist who recently fled Syria. “The U.S. is supporting us with expired tuna, and in this way they think they are supporting the revolution.”
“什么非致命性援助？”最近逃离叙利亚的活动人士穆阿兹(Moaz)说，“美国拿过期的金枪鱼来支持我们，然后他们就觉得是在支持革命了。”