WASHINGTON — Since 2010, the National Security Agency has been exploiting its huge collections of data to create sophisticated graphs of some Americans’ social connections that can identify their associates, their locations at certain times, their traveling companions and other personal information, according to newly disclosed documents and interviews with officials.
华盛顿——最新披露的文件及官员访谈显示，美国国家安全局(以下简称“NSA”)一直在利用其掌握的大量数据绘制一些美国公民的社会关系图。通过这些详尽的关系图可识别这些公民的联系人，在特定时间所处的位置，旅伴及其它个人信息。
The spy agency began allowing the analysis of phone call and e-mail logs in November 2010 to examine Americans’ networks of associations for foreign intelligence purposes after N.S.A. officials lifted restrictions on the practice, according to documents provided by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor.
根据NSA前雇员爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)提供的文件，为了获得外国情报，NSA官员取消了相关限制，该间谍机构从2010年11月起便开始允许分析通话记录及电子邮件日志，以便监视美国公民的社会关系网。
The policy shift was intended to help the agency “discover and track” connections between intelligence targets overseas and people in the United States, according to an N.S.A. memorandum from January 2011. The agency was authorized to conduct “large-scale graph analysis on very large sets of communications metadata without having to check foreignness” of every e-mail address, phone number or other identifier, the document said. Because of concerns about infringing on the privacy of American citizens, the computer analysis of such data had previously been permitted only for foreigners.
根据NSA的2011年1月的一份备忘录，这一政策转向是为了帮助该机构“发现并跟踪”海外情报目标与在美人员之间的联系。前述文件显示，该机构获得授权，可以针对每个电子邮件地址，电话号码或其它识别方式“对大量通信元数据进行大规模图表分析，而无需检查其是否属于外国人士”。出于对侵犯美国公民隐私的担忧，对此类数据的计算机分析之前只针对外国人士。
The agency can augment the communications data with material from public, commercial and other sources, including bank codes, insurance information, Facebook profiles, passenger manifests, voter registration rolls and GPS location information, as well as property records and unspecified tax data, according to the documents. They do not indicate any restrictions on the use of such “enrichment” data, and several former senior Obama administration officials said the agency drew on it for both Americans and foreigners.
文件还显示，该机构可利用通过公开、商业及其他途径获得的资料扩充通信数据，包括银行代码、保险信息、Facebook个人主页、旅客名单、选举登记名单、GPS定位信息，以及财产记录及纳税资料。这些文件并未说明对此类“充实”资料的使用是否受到限制，一些前奥巴马政府高级官员称，国家安全局针对美国公民和外国公民都使用过这一手段。
N.S.A. officials declined to say how many Americans have been caught up in the effort, including people involved in no wrongdoing. The documents do not describe what has resulted from the scrutiny, which links phone numbers and e-mails in a “contact chain” tied directly or indirectly to a person or organization overseas that is of foreign intelligence interest.
NSA官员拒绝回答这项行动涉及多少美国公民，包括没有任何不当行为的人员。文件并未说明这种监视行为取得了何种效果。该监视行为将电话号码和电子邮件汇编为一条“联系链”，并与涉及外国情报的海外人员或组织直接或间接地关联起来。
The new disclosures add to the growing body of knowledge in recent months about the N.S.A.’s access to and use of private information concerning Americans, prompting lawmakers in Washington to call for reining in the agency and President Obama to order an examination of its surveillance policies. Almost everything about the agency’s operations is hidden, and the decision to revise the limits concerning Americans was made in secret, without review by the nation’s intelligence court or any public debate. As far back as 2006, a Justice Department memo warned of the potential for the “misuse” of such information without adequate safeguards.
最近几个月，人们对关于NSA获取并使用涉及美国公民的私人信息的行为有了越来越多的了解，最新披露的这些内容则提供了新的认识。这促使华盛顿的立法者们呼吁限制该机构行为，并要求奥巴马下令检讨其监控政策。人们对该机构的运作方式几乎一无所知，修改涉及美国公民限制的决定也是秘密做出，没有经过美国情报法庭的审查或公开讨论。早在2006年，司法部的一份备忘录就曾警告，在没有适当保护措施的情况下，此类信息可能会遭到“滥用”。
An agency spokeswoman, asked about the analyses of Americans’ data, said, “All data queries must include a foreign intelligence justification, period.”
在被问及关于针对美国公民资料的分析时，一名国家安全局女发言人说，“任何数据查询都必须提供针对外国情报的正当理由。”
“All of N.S.A.’s work has a foreign intelligence purpose,” the spokeswoman added. “Our activities are centered on counterterrorism, counterproliferation and cybersecurity.”
“NSA的所有工作都是为了搜集外国情报，”该发言人称，“我们的活动集中于反恐，反扩散及网络安全。”
The legal underpinning of the policy change, she said, was a 1979 Supreme Court ruling that Americans could have no expectation of privacy about what numbers they had called. Based on that ruling, the Justice Department and the Pentagon decided that it was permissible to create contact chains using Americans’ “metadata,” which includes the timing, location and other details of calls and e-mails, but not their content. The agency is not required to seek warrants for the analyses from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.
该发言人称，该政策变化的法律依据是1979年最高法院做出的一项裁决，即美国公民不能将其拨打过的电话号码视为隐私。根据此项裁决，司法部和五角大楼认为其有权利用美国公民的“元数据”，包括通话和邮件的时间、地点及其他细节（不包括内容），由此建立联系链。国家安全局无需获得外国情报监视法庭对该类数据分析的授权。
The new documents provide a rare window into what the N.S.A. actually does with the information it gathers.
这些新披露的文件为了解NSA如何处理其收集的信息提供了一个难得的机会。
A series of agency PowerPoint presentations and memos describe how the N.S.A. has been able to develop software and other tools — one document cited a new generation of programs that “revolutionize” data collection and analysis — to unlock as many secrets about individuals as possible.
一系列PPT演示文档及备忘录描述了该机构如何开发软件和其它工具，并使用这些工具最大限度地挖掘个人隐秘。一份文件中提到了其开发的新一代程序，并称该程序可以对数据收集和分析工作产生“革命性”的影响。
The spy agency, led by Gen. Keith B. Alexander, an unabashed advocate for more weapons in the hunt for information about the nation’s adversaries, clearly views its collections of metadata as one of its most powerful resources. N.S.A. analysts can exploit that information to develop a portrait of an individual, one that is perhaps more complete and predictive of behavior than could be obtained by listening to phone conversations or reading e-mails, experts say.
由基思·B·亚历山大(Keith B. Alexander)将军领导的NSA显然把本机构收集的元数据视作自身最强大的资源之一，亚历山大不加掩饰地倡导利用更多的武器来搜索与美国的对手相关的信息。一些专家说，NSA的分析员可以通过这些信息推断一个人的行为，它也许能比窃听电话谈话，或阅读电子邮件所得到的行为推断更全面、预测也更准。
Phone and e-mail logs, for example, allow analysts to identify people’s friends and associates, detect where they were at a certain time, acquire clues to religious or political affiliations, and pick up sensitive information like regular calls to a psychiatrist’s office, late-night messages to an extramarital partner or exchanges with a fellow plotter.
比如说，根据电话和电子邮件记录，分析员可以识别对象的朋友和同事，查看对象在特定时间身处何地，获得关于他们宗教信仰或政治倾向的线索，还可以掌握一些敏感信息，比如定期打给心理医生办公室的电话、半夜向婚外伙伴发送的信息，或者和同谋者之间的交流。
A 2009 draft of an N.S.A. inspector general’s report suggests that contact chaining and analysis may have been done on Americans’ communications data under the Bush administration’s program of wiretapping without warrants, which began after the Sept. 11 attacks to detect terrorist activities and skirted the existing laws governing electronic surveillance.
NSA监察长在2009年拟定的一份报告草案显示，根据布什(Bush)政府时期的监听计划，该机构可能已经在缺乏授权的情况下，对美国人的通信数据做出了联络关联和分析。该监听计划始于“9·11”袭击之后，目的是探查恐怖活动，规避现行的电子监控管理法规。
In 2006, months after the wiretapping program was disclosed by The New York Times, the N.S.A.’s acting general counsel wrote a letter to a senior Justice Department official, which was also leaked by Mr. Snowden, formally asking for permission to perform the analysis on American phone and e-mail data. A Justice Department memo to the attorney general noted that the “misuse” of such information “could raise serious concerns,” and said the N.S.A. promised to impose safeguards, including regular audits, on the metadata program. In 2008, the Bush administration gave its approval.
2006年，就在《纽约时报》披露该监听计划几个月之后，NSA的代理法律顾问给司法部的一名高官写了一封信，正式要求司法部批准对美国人的电话和电子邮件数据进行分析，这封信的内容也被斯诺登泄露了出来。司法部在给部长的备忘录中指出，“误用”此类信息“可能会引发严重的关切”，并说NSA承诺要采取包括定期审查在内的措施，以便保障元数据项目的安全。2008年，布什政府批准了NSA的请求。
A new policy that year, detailed in “Department of Defense Supplemental Procedures Governing Communications Metadata Analysis,” authorized by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey, said that since the Supreme Court had ruled that metadata was not constitutionally protected, N.S.A. analysts could use such information “without regard to the nationality or location of the communicants,” according to an internal N.S.A. description of the policy.
根据NSA内部对相关政策的描述，那一年，记录在《国防部管理通信类元数据分析的补充程序》(Department of Defense Supplemental Procedures Governing Communications Metadata Analysis)当中的新政策获得了国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)和司法部长迈克尔·B·穆凯西(Michael B. Mukasey)的批准。新政策指出，由于最高法院(Supreme Court)已经裁决，元数据并未受到宪法的保护，NSA分析员可以利用此类信息，“无需考虑通信方的国籍或所在地”。
After that decision, which was previously reported by The Guardian, the N.S.A. performed the social network graphing in a pilot project for 1 ½ years “to great benefit,” according to the 2011 memo. It was put in place in November 2010 in “Sigint Management Directive 424” (sigint refers to signals intelligence).
此前，《卫报》(The Guardian)曾报道这个决定。根据2011年的备忘录，该决定出台之后，在一个持续了一年半的试点计划中，NSA针对社交网络绘制了关系图表，并且“获益巨大”。2010年11月，这个政策转变被列入《信号情报管理第424号令》（Sigint Management Directive 424，Sigint指的是信号情报），并正式生效。
In the 2011 memo explaining the shift, N.S.A. analysts were told that they could trace the contacts of Americans as long as they cited a foreign intelligence justification. That could include anything from ties to terrorism, weapons proliferation or international drug smuggling to spying on conversations of foreign politicians, business figures or activists.
2011发布的备忘录解释了这种转变，并告知NSA的分析员，只要能拿出一条外国情报来做理由，他们就能追踪美国人的联络信息。这可能包括任何信息，从与恐怖主义的联系、武器扩散或国际毒品走私到监视外国政客、商务人士或活动人士的对话，不一而足。
Analysts were warned to follow existing “minimization rules,” which prohibit the N.S.A. from sharing with other agencies names and other details of Americans whose communications are collected, unless they are necessary to understand foreign intelligence reports or there is evidence of a crime. The agency is required to obtain a warrant from the intelligence court to target a “U.S. person” — a citizen or legal resident — for actual eavesdropping.
备忘录警告分析员，要遵从现有的“最小化规则”，该规则禁止NSA与其他机构共享被收集了信息的美国人的姓名及其他细节，除非他们有必要了解外国情报报告、或者手里攥有犯罪证据。根据法律，NSA必须获得情报法院的授权，才能把身为美国公民或合法居民的“美国人”设为实际监听目标。
The N.S.A. documents show that one of the main tools used for chaining phone numbers and e-mail addresses has the code name Mainway. It is a repository into which vast amounts of data flow daily from the agency’s fiber-optic cables, corporate partners and foreign computer networks that have been hacked.
NSA的文件显示，用于关联电话号码和电子邮件地址的主要工具之一以主干道(Mainway)为代码。这是一个信息库，每天都会汇入海量的数据，数据来自NSA的传输光缆、合作伙伴和受到黑客攻击的外国电脑网络。
The documents show that significant amounts of information from the United States go into Mainway. An internal N.S.A. bulletin, for example, noted that in 2011 Mainway was taking in 700 million phone records per day. In August 2011, it began receiving an additional 1.1 billion cellphone records daily from an unnamed American service provider under Section 702 of the 2008 FISA Amendments Act, which allows for the collection of the data of Americans if at least one end of the communication is believed to be foreign.
文件显示，有大量来自美国的信息汇入主干道。例如，一份NSA内部简报指出，2011年，主干道每天都要接收7亿条电话记录。2011年8月，根据2008年通过的《外国情报监视法修正案》(FISA Amendments Act)第702条，主干道开始每天接收额外的11亿条电话记录，这些记录来自一家未列名的美国服务提供商。根据第702条，NSA可以在认定通信人中至少有一方身处国外的情况下，收集美国人的信息。
A top-secret document titled “Better Person Centric Analysis” describes how the agency looks for 94 “entity types,” including phone numbers, e-mail addresses and IP addresses. In addition, the N.S.A. correlates 164 “relationship types” to build social networks and what the agency calls “community of interest” profiles, using queries like “travelsWith, hasFather, sentForumMessage, employs.”
一份题为《以人为本的更佳分析》(Better Person Centric Analysis)的高度机密文件形容了NSA以何种方式寻找94类“数据条目”，其中包括电话号码、电子邮件信息和IP地址。除此之外，NSA还利用“和谁出行、有父亲、发送论坛信息、雇佣”等查询指令，把164种“关系类别”关联起来，建立社交网络和被NSA称为“兴趣团体”档案。
If the N.S.A. does not immediately use the phone and e-mail logging data of an American, it can be stored for later use, at least under certain circumstances, according to several documents.
几份文件显示，NSA即便没有立即使用美国人的电话记录和电子邮件记录数据，依然可以将它们存储下来，留待日后使用，至少可以在特定的环境下加以利用。
One 2011 memo, for example, said that after a court ruling narrowed the scope of the agency’s collection, the data in question was “being buffered for possible ingest” later. A year earlier, an internal briefing paper from the N.S.A. Office of Legal Counsel showed that the agency was allowed to collect and retain raw traffic, which includes both metadata and content, about “U.S. persons” for up to five years online and for an additional 10 years offline for “historical searches.”
举例来说，2011年的一份备忘录指出，在一家法院的裁决缩小了NSA的信息收集范围之后，前述数据后来“被搁置以待未来分析”。2010年，NSA法律顾问办公室(Office of Legal Counsel)的一份内部简报显示，NSA获准收集和保留原始的数据流，包括在最长可达五年的时间里在线保存与“美国人”有关的元数据和内容，而对“历史搜索”记录的离线保存时间还可以再长出10年。