The United States economy rebounded strongly in the second quarter of the year, shaking off the negative effects of an unusually harsh winter and stirring hopes that it might finally be establishing a solid enough footing to put the lingering effects of the recession squarely in the past.
今年二季度，美国经济强劲回升，摆脱了异常寒冷的冬季带来的不利影响，并使人们燃起希望：美国经济或许终于在建立足够稳固的基础，让衰退挥之不去的影响彻底成为过去。
The Commerce Department, in its initial estimate for April, May and June, reported on Wednesday that the economy grew at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4 percent, surpassing expectations.
周三，美国商务部通报了对二季度数据的初步估算，经过年化调整后的二季度经济增长率为4%，超出了预期。
During the first quarter, output shrank at a rate of 2.1 percent, less than had been reported. The department had earlier said that first-quarter output fell 2.9 percent.
而在今年一季度中，产出下降了2.1%，低于之前报道的幅度。商务部早前曾表示，一季度的产出降幅为2.9%。
Some experts, citing a range of indicators including an improving job market, were encouraged by the signs of healthy business investment and consumer spending, but others cautioned that the economy had yet to break out of an underlying pattern of steady but relatively sluggish growth that has plagued the nation since the Great Recession officially ended in mid-2009.
部分专家以日渐改善的就业市场等一系列指标为证，受到健康的商业投资和消费者支出迹象的鼓舞。不过，其他一些人告诫，经济还尚未摆脱增长稳定但相对缓慢的大趋势。自大衰退于2009年中期正式结束以来，这种增长模式一直困扰着美国。
President Obama heralded the positive economic news on a visit to Kansas City, Mo.
奥巴马总统在访问密苏里州堪萨斯城期间通报了这则正面的经济消息。
Federal Reserve policy makers, meeting this week in Washington, said they were taking a wait-and-see attitude toward the latest data, emphasizing concern about the millions of Americans who still cannot find jobs.
本周，美联储(Federal Reserve)的政策制定者在华盛顿举行会议。他们表示对最新数据持观望态度，并且强调了对数百万美国人依然未能找到工作的关切。
In a statement released Wednesday afternoon, the Fed acknowledged that growth had “rebounded,” but its tone was measured and it made clear that it had no plans to raise interest rates anytime soon. It described the chances of faster growth as roughly even with the chances that the expansion would slow down.
在周三下午发表的声明中，美联储承认经济“回升”，但语气慎重，并明确表示没有很快提升利率的打算。美联储称，更快增长的可能性与增长放缓的可能性大致相当。
“The recovery so far has been unspectacular,” said Ben Herzon, a senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers, a consulting firm based in St. Louis. “With the exception of a few wiggles here and there, it’s been on this steady growth path, which is not great but it’s been good enough.”
“截至目前，复苏尚不强劲，”总部位于圣路易斯的宏观经济咨询公司(Macroeconomic Advisers)的高级经济师本·赫尔逊(Ben Herzon)说，“除了一些零星的波动外，经济一直处在这种稳定增长的道路上，虽不出色，但也够好了。”
Democrats are hoping to use the signs of an improving economy as a selling point in the run-up to midterm elections as proof their policies are working. Mr. Obama seemed energized by the report, though even his take was muted. He said a healthy jobs market was the real measure of whether the economy was working.
民主党希望把经济日益改善的迹象作为中期选举竞选阶段的卖点，证明己方的政策正在起作用。奥巴马似乎受到了此次报告的鼓舞，不过态度相对温和。他表示，健康的就业市场是衡量经济是否正在回升的真正标准。
“I’m glad that G.D.P. is growing, and I’m glad that corporate profits are high, and I’m glad that the stock market is booming,” the president told a boisterous crowd in Kansas City. “But what I really want to see is a guy working 9 to 5, and then working some overtime. I want that guy making more than the minimum wage.”
“很高兴GDP正在增加、企业利润处于高水平、股票市场也一片红火，”总统告诉堪萨斯城热闹的人群，“但我真正想看到的，是人们朝九晚五地工作，然后还能加会儿班。我希望人们的收入超过最低工资。”
Consumer spending on automobiles, furniture and recreational goods helped bolster G.D.P. for the second quarter, as did an increase in state and local government expenditures that offset a modest decline in federal spending. But the biggest factor in the quarterly expansion was a sharp increase in the stocks of goods in warehouses and on store shelves as businesses anticipated that consumers were developing a greater urge to shop.
消费者在汽车、家具和娱乐产品方面的支出也推动了第二季度GDP的上涨。州和地方政府支出的提升冲抵了联邦政府支出略微下降所产生的影响。但是，促使该季度经济好转的最大因素是库存商品及上架货品的大幅增加，因为企业认为，消费者的购买欲正在提高。
The rate at which businesses stock their shelves can be volatile, and the second-quarter gains could falter if consumers do not continue to spend freely in the second half of the year. For all the exuberance over Wednesday’s news, at least one economist chalked up the latest numbers mostly to “payback” for the poor showing in the first quarter.
企业的库存力度具有很大的波动性，而且如果下半年消费者不继续自由消费，第二季度的增长可能就会难以为继。虽然周三的消息令人激动，但至少有一名经济学家认为，这些最新数据很大程度上要归功于“回馈”第一季度的糟糕表现。
Looking back over the last 12 months, the overall inflation-adjusted output of goods and services for the second quarter was 2.4 percent higher than the same quarter a year earlier, barely ahead of the average pace of 2.2 percent growth since the recession ended.
回顾过去12个月的情况可知，通过通胀调整的二季度商品和服务总量同比增长了2.4%，与衰退结束以来平均2.2%的增长率相差无几。
Still, most economists say that — little by little — the economy is returning to a healthier state.
不过，大多数经济学家都表示，慢慢地，整体经济正在向更健康的状态转变。
“It isn’t something people are going to get excited about, but it does represent honest, real progress,” said Michael Gapen, a senior economist for Barclays, which predicted more of the same for the rest of the year.
“这不会太让人兴奋，但的确体现了实在的、真正的进步，”巴克莱银行(Barclays)的高级经济师迈克尔·加彭(Michael Gapen)说。巴克莱预计，今年下半年的情况也会大致相当。
Perhaps the biggest factor holding back the economy has been slow wage growth, as the high number of people out of work means that businesses see little need to pay much more to attract new employees. Housing has partly recovered from the depths it fell to during the recession but has not significantly helped power the economy forward as it did in the early stages of past expansions.
影响经济增长的最大因素或许是工资上涨缓慢。由于很多人都处于失业状态，所以企业认为没有什么必要花更多钱来吸引新员工。经济衰退时期猛跌的房地产市场如今已部分恢复，但尚未像过去的上升期起始阶段那样，对经济增长起到巨大的促进作用。
Second-quarter earnings for many companies have been mixed. Labor conditions continue to be underwhelming, contributing to the belief of many jobless Americans that the economy is leaving them behind.
许多公司第二季度的收益状况都好坏参半。就业状况仍然令人失望，让许多没有工作的人认为自己正在被经济增长抛在身后。