WASHINGTON — As the nation’s spy agencies assess the fallout from disclosures about their surveillance programs, some government analysts and senior officials have made a startling finding: the impact of a leaked terrorist plot by Al Qaeda in August has caused more immediate damage to American counterterrorism efforts than the thousands of classified documents disclosed by Edward Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor.
华盛顿——当美国情报机构评估他们的监控计划被泄露的后果时，一些政府分析员和高级官员得出了一个惊人的发现，那就是对今年8月基地组织(Al Qaeda)一次行动计划的泄密为美国反恐行动带来的直接损害，比国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）前承包商雇员爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)泄露的几千份机密文件所造成的损害还要大。
Since news reports in early August revealed that the United States intercepted messages between Ayman al-Zawahri, who succeeded Osama bin Laden as the head of Al Qaeda, and Nasser al-Wuhayshi, the head of the Yemen-based Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, discussing an imminent terrorist attack, analysts have detected a sharp drop in the terrorists’ use of a major communications channel that authorities were monitoring. Since August, senior American officials have been scrambling to find new ways to tap into the electronic messages and conversations of Al Qaeda’s leaders and operatives.
8月初的新闻报道披露称，美国截获了艾曼·扎瓦赫里(Ayman al-Zawahri)和纳赛尔·乌海什(Nasser al-Wuhayshi)之间的通话讯息，内容是讨论一起即将发动的恐怖袭击，自那之后，分析员就察觉到，恐怖分子大幅减少了他们对美国当局正在监听的主要通讯渠道的使用。扎瓦赫里是基地组织的现任领袖，奥萨马·本拉登(Osama bin Laden)的继任者，乌海什则是总部设在也门的阿拉伯半岛基地组织(Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula)头目。自8月以来，美国高级官员一直在争相寻找新的途径，以便于监听基地组织头目和其手下之间的电子讯息和通话。
“The switches weren’t turned off but there has been a real decrease in quality” of communications, said one United States official, who like others quoted spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence programs.
一名美国官员说，“他们没有关闭相互之间的交流”，不过通讯的质量“大幅下降了”。与本文引用的其他人一样，这名官员要求在匿名条件下讨论情报计划。
The drop in message traffic after the communication intercepts contrasts with what analysts describe as a far more muted impact on counterterrorism efforts from the disclosures by Mr. Snowden of the broad capabilities of N.S.A. surveillance programs. Instead of terrorists moving away from electronic communications after those disclosures, analysts have detected terrorists mainly talking about the information that Mr. Snowden has disclosed.
NSA监控项目所具有的广泛能力，通过斯诺登的泄密被暴露了出来，然而这种暴露对反恐行动的影响，和上述通话被截获后出现的通信流量下降有着天壤之别。分析人员称前者造成的影响要远远逊于后者。他们发现，在斯诺登泄密之后，恐怖分子并没有放弃电子通讯渠道，倒是用大多数的时间在谈论斯诺登泄露的信息。
Senior American officials say that Mr. Snowden’s disclosures have had a broader impact on national security in general, including counterterrorism efforts. This includes fears that Russia and China now have more technical details about the N.S.A. surveillance programs, as well as damaged diplomatic ties, like the decision by Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff, to postpone a state visit to the United States in protest over revelations that the agency spied on her, her top aides and Brazil’s largest company, the oil giant Petrobras.
美国高官表示，斯诺登的泄密对国家的整体安全造成了更为广泛的影响，反恐行动也在被影响之列。这包括，担忧俄罗斯和中国目前掌握了更多的NSA监控计划技术细节，以及担忧美国的外交关系受损，例如，巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)决定推迟对美国的国事访问，以就斯诺登披露的相关细节提出抗议。其内容包括NSA暗中监视她本人、她的高级助理和巴西最大的公司——石油巨头巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)。
The communication intercepts between Mr. Zawahri and Mr. Wuhayshi revealed what American intelligence officials and lawmakers have described as one of the most serious plots against American and Western interests since the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. It prompted the closure of 19 United States Embassies and consulates for a week, when the authorities ultimately concluded that the plot focused on the embassy in Yemen.
扎瓦赫里和乌海什之间被截获的通话暴露了一个阴谋，美国情报官员和议员把它形容为自2001年9月11日的袭击发生以来，策划攻击美国和西方利益的最重大阴谋之一。这起阴谋促使美国关闭了驻19个国家的大使馆和领事馆，时间长达一周。当局最终得出结论称，这起阴谋的主要目标是美国驻也门大使馆。
McClatchy Newspapers first reported on the conversations between Mr. Zawahri and Mr. Wuhayshi on Aug. 4. Two days before that, The New York Times agreed to withhold the identities of the Qaeda leaders after senior American intelligence officials said the information could jeopardize their operations. After the government became aware of the McClatchy article, it dropped its objections to The Times’s publishing the same information, and the newspaper did so on Aug. 5.
《麦克拉齐报》(McClatchy Newspapers)率先于8月4日报道了扎瓦赫里和乌海什之间的通话。在此两天以前，《纽约时报》同意不披露相关基地头目的身份，原因是美国情报官员此前表示，这些身份信息可能会危及他们的行动。政府获悉《麦克拉齐报》的文章后，不再反对《纽约时报》刊登同样的信息，于是本报在8月5日刊发了报道。
American counterterrorism officials say they believe the disclosure about the Qaeda plot has had a significant impact because it was a specific event that signaled to terrorists that a main communication network that the group’s leaders were using was being monitored. The sharpest decline in messaging has been among the Qaeda operatives in Yemen, officials said. The disclosures from Mr. Snowden have not had such specificity about terrorist communications networks that the government is monitoring, they said.
美国反恐官员表示，他们认为，基地组织的阴谋被揭露一事，造成了重大的影响，原因是阴谋的破获是一个具体事件，它向恐怖分子表明，基地组织领袖正在使用的某个主要的通讯网络受到监控。官员们说，通讯往来中最大的跌幅出现在也门基地特工之中。他们表示，斯诺登披露的机密中，不含有此类与政府正在监控的恐怖分子通讯网络有关的细节。
“It was something that was immediate, direct and involved specific people on specific communications about specific events,” one senior American official said of the exchange between the Qaeda leaders. “The Snowden stuff is layered and layered, and it will take a lot of time to understand it. There wasn’t a sudden drop-off from it. A lot of these guys think that they are not impacted by it, and it is difficult stuff for them to understand.”
“那是一件即时、直接的事件，涉及具体的人，就具体的事情进行了具体的通讯，”一位美国高级官员这样评价基地头目之间的那次交流。“斯诺登的东西是层层包覆的，需要花很多时间去理解。它没有造成过通讯的突然减少。这些人中有很多人觉得他们不会受此影响，对他们来说这些东西是比较难理解的。”
Other senior intelligence and counterterrorism officials offer a dissenting view, saying it is difficult, if not impossible, to separate the impact of the messages between the Qaeda leaders from Mr. Snowden’s overall disclosures, and that the decline is more likely a combination the two.
其他情报和反恐高级官员提出了不同意见，他说要将斯诺登全面泄密所带来的影响跟基地头目之间的那次通讯泄密的影响完全分开是很困难的，甚至是不可能的，这种通讯的减少很有可能是两者共同作用的结果。
“The bad guys are just not going to talk operational planning electronically,” said one senior counterterrorism official.
“这些坏人只是不再通过电子方式讨论行动计划了，”一位高级反恐官员说。
Over the past decade, the N.S.A. has invested billions of dollars in a clandestine campaign to preserve its ability to eavesdrop. The agency has circumvented or cracked much of the encryption, or digital scrambling, that guards global commerce and banking systems, protects sensitive data like trade secrets and medical records, and automatically secures the e-mails, Web searches, Internet chats and phone calls of Americans and others around the world, according to documents provided by Mr. Snowden.
过去10年里，NSA为了保持窃听的能力，投入数十亿美元发起了一项秘密行动。从斯诺登提供的文档看，这项行动绕过或破解了保卫全球贸易和银行系统的不少加密措施，这种措施又叫数码扰频，它保护着交易机密和医疗记录这样的敏感数据，并对美国和其他国家的电子邮件、网络搜索、网络聊天和电话通讯进行自动的加密保护。
The government’s greatest fear concerning its counterterrorism operations is that over the next several months, the level of intercepted communications will continue to fall as terrorists likely find new ways to communicate with one another, one senior American official said. It will likely take the government some time to break into that method and monitor communications.
一位美国高级官员说，在反恐行动的层面，政府最担心的是截获通讯的水平在未来几个月里还会继续下降，恐怖分子可能会找到新的联络方式。政府很可能需要花一段时间才能突入那种新的方式，并展开监听。
A senior intelligence official put it this way: “They are agile, we are agile. When we see a change in behavior, our guys are changing right along with it, or we’re already seeing it and adapting to it. Our capabilities are changing in hours and days, versus weeks and months like we used to.”
一位高级情报官员是这么说的：“他们灵活，我们也灵活。当我们看到行为上的变化，我们的人会马上跟着改变，或者我们已经看到了，并在适应它。我们的能力会在几个小时、几天里发生改变，和以前的几周、几个月不一样了。”
To be sure, Qaeda leaders and their top lieutenants use other secure electronic communications as well as old-fashioned means — like couriers, as Bin Laden did — that pose major challenges to American intelligence services.
毫无疑问，在使用其他加密的电子通讯手段的同时，基地组织头目和他们的高级副手也会用一些老式的方法——比如本·拉登会用信差——这是美国的情报机构面临的主要挑战。
In the past few months, the Global Islamic Media Front, the propaganda arm of Al Qaeda and other Islamic terrorist groups, has released new software that allows users to encrypt communications for instant-messaging and cellphones. Officials say these new programs may pose fresh challenges for N.S.A. code breakers.
过去几个月里，基地组织与其他伊斯兰恐怖组织的宣传机构全球伊斯兰媒体阵线(Global Islamic Media Front)发布了一些软件，让用户可以对即时通讯和手机的通话进行加密。有官员称，这些新程序可能会给NSA的代码破译人员带来新的麻烦。
Jihadists have been working on camouflaging their communications through encryption software for years.
圣战分子多年来一直在想方设法用加密软件掩盖他们的通讯踪迹。
Al Qaeda’s use of advanced encryption technology dates to 2007, when the Global Islamic Media Front released the Asrar al-Mujahedeen, or so-called “Mujahedeen Secrets” software. An updated version, Mujahedeen Secrets 2, was released in January 2008, and has been revised at least twice, most recently in May 2012, analysts said.
基地组织对先进加密技术的应用可以追溯到2007年，当时全球伊斯兰媒体阵线发布了所谓的“圣战秘密”(Asrar al-Mujahedeen)软件。情报分析员说，这个软件在2008年1月发布了升级版“圣战秘密 2”，此后至少更新了两次，最近一次是在2012年5月。
The program was popularized in the first issue of Inspire, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula’s quarterly online magazine, in a July 2010 post entitled “How to Use Asrar al-Mujahedeen: Sending and Receiving Encrypted Messages.”
2010年7月，阿拉伯半岛基地组织的在线季刊杂志《激励》(Inspire)第一期中的一篇题为《如何使用圣战秘密：发送和接受加密信息》的文章首次介绍推广了这个项目。
Since then, each issue of Inspire has offered a how-to section on encrypting communications, recommending MS2 as the main encryption tool.
《激励》杂志此后在每一期里都会有一个教程版块，介绍加密通讯，并推荐了MS2作为主要加密工具。