Leaders of the Republican establishment, alarmed by the emergence of far-right and often unpredictable Tea Party candidates, are pushing their party to rethink how it chooses nominees and advocating changes they say would result in the selection of less extreme contenders.
看到难以捉摸的极右翼茶党候选人的崛起，共和党体制内的领导人警觉起来了。他们开始推动共和党重新思考选择候选人的具体办法，同时敦促改革。他们声称，要通过改革，选出不那么极端的候选人来。
The push comes as the national Republican Party is grappling with vexing divisions over its identity and image, and mainstream leaders complain that more ideologically-driven conservatives are damaging the party with tactics like the government shutdown.
之所以会有这些举动，是因为共和党总部面对该党分裂的身份和形象感到非常棘手。主流派的领导人抱怨称，很多保守派受到意识形态驱使，采用了让政府关门之类的策略，损害了党的形象。
The debate intensified on Wednesday after Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, the deeply conservative Republican candidate for governor of Virginia, lost a close race in which Democrats highlighted his opposition to abortion in almost all circumstances, his views on contraception and comments in which he seemed to liken immigration policy to pest control.
肯尼斯·T·库奇内利二世(Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II)是极端保守的弗吉尼亚州州长共和党候选人。周三，库奇内利以微弱劣势输掉了州长选举，这加剧了共和党内部的辩论。在竞选当中，民主党人不停地强调，库奇内利基本上在任何情况下都反对堕胎的立场、他对于避孕的看法，还有他似乎将移民政策比作消灭害虫的言论。
The party leaders pushing for changes want to replace state caucuses and conventions, like the one that nominated Mr. Cuccinelli, with a primary system that they believe will draw a broader cross-section of Republicans and produce more moderate candidates.
那些想要推动改革的党派领袖希望能够推翻现有的州预选会议和党大会制度（库奇内利就是在这些会议上被选出来的），取而代之的是一套初选系统。他们相信，这样能够吸引更多具有不同立场的共和党人参与，从而选出更加温和的候选人来。
Similar pushes are already underway in other states, including Montana and Utah, and last week Mitt Romney said Republicans should re-examine how to overhaul their presidential nominating process to attract a wider range of voters. He suggested that states holding open primaries be rewarded with more delegates to the national convention.
类似的努力已经在其他州起步了，例如蒙大拿州和犹他州。上个礼拜，米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)就表示，共和党人需要重新检视一下，看看如何全面调整党的总统候选人提名过程，这样才能够在更大范围内吸引选民。他建议，那些举行公开初选的州，应该获得更多的共和党全国大会代表名额。
While the discussion may appear arcane, it reflects a fierce struggle for power between the activist, often Tea Party-dominated wing of the Republican Party — whose members tend to be devoted to showing up and organizing at events like party conventions — and the more mainstream wing, which is frustrated by its inability to rein in the extremist elements and by the fact that its message is not resonating with more voters.
虽然这些讨论看上去不好理解，但它却反映出激烈的权争。其中一方是激进派，通常是茶党主导的那派共和党人，他们的成员往往特别愿意组织和出席党大会这样的活动。而更主流的一派则没有能力控制极端分子，同时他们的主张又没有办法得到广大选民的共鸣，因此感到强烈的挫败感。
“Conventions by nature force candidates and campaigns to focus on a very small group of party activists,” said Phil Cox, executive director of the Republican Governors Association and a longtime Virginia-based strategist. He grimaced at the successful movement by conservative activists in his state earlier this year to switch from a primary system to a convention system. “If the goal is actually to win elections, holding more primaries would be a good start."
菲尔·考克斯(Phil Cox)是共和党州长协会(Republican Governors Association)的执行主任，也是一位长期以弗吉尼亚州为主攻对象的竞选策略师。他说，“从本质上看，党大会迫使候选人和他们的竞选团队把注意力放在一小群党的激进分子身上。”今年早些时候，保守派的激进分子成功地在弗吉尼亚州里组织了运动，将初选竞选模式变成了党大会模式，他对此感到非常反感。他说，“如果目标确实是要赢得选举的话，那么举办更多的初选才是一个好的开始。”
With control of the Senate expected to turn on a handful of races around the country next year, Republican leaders are worried about the outcome in Iowa, where a crowded field of G.O.P. candidates has taken shape, including several untested ones. If no one receives 35 percent of the primary vote, the nominee will be selected by a convention.
明年，全国各地的几个竞选将决定参议院控制权的归属。共和党领导人担心艾奥瓦州的竞选结果，因为那里出现了众多共和党候选人，包括好几名新手。如果没有人获得35%的初选选票，那么该州候选人将由党大会提名。
“Conventions have a flimsy track record of selecting the most electable candidates,” David Kochel, an Iowa-based Republican strategist, said in an interview on Wednesday.
戴维·柯切尔(David Kochel)是一位以艾奥瓦州为主场的共和党竞选策略师。周三，他在一次采访时表示，“历史上，党大会基本上很难选出最能够在竞选中获胜的候选人。”
Nowhere is the debate over how to limit the influence of the party’s most hard-line activists more intense than in Utah, where in 2010 conservatives cheered as the Tea Party toppled one of the veteran Republican centrists in the Senate, Bob Bennett. The state party’s caucus and convention system helped elevate Mike Lee, a little-known lawyer who replaced Mr. Bennett.
而全国范围内，对于如何控制党派内最强硬的激进分子的影响，争论最激烈的地方是犹他州。2010年，保守派一度欢呼雀跃，因为茶党掀翻了共和党老将，前中间派参议员鲍勃·本尼特(Bob Bennett)。该州共和党的州预选会议和党大会系统帮助迈克·李(Mike Lee)这位少有人知的律师战胜了本尼特。
Now Mr. Lee is a patriarch of sorts to Tea Party conservatives in Congress. Though Senator Ted Cruz of Texas was the public face of government shutdown fight, it was Mr. Lee who largely conceived the strategy in an effort to block funding for President Obama’s health care law.
现在，迈克·李像是国会中茶党保守派的大家长。虽然德克萨斯州参议员泰德·科鲁兹(Ted Cruz)是政府关门斗争中的台面人物，但在很大程度上这个策略来自李，他想要借此来切断奥巴马总统医保法案的拨款。
Back home, Mr. Lee is now at odds with Republican stalwarts like former Gov. Mike Leavitt, who are leading a campaign for a ballot initiative that would shift the state to a primary system.
在犹他州，李跟那里的共和党大佬不和。例如前州长迈克·李威特(Mike Leavitt)就正在组织群众推动投票，想要将犹他州变成一个进行初选的州。
“If you look at the place where the aggregate heart of the Republican Party is in this state, it is not represented by the aggregate of folks who attend conventions — demographically or ideologically,” Mr. Leavitt said in an interview this week.
李威特在本周的一次采访中说，“你看一下，犹他州共和党支持者的总体想法是什么。绝不是去参加党大会的那些人所能代表的——不论是从人口学角度看，还是从意识形态上看。”
In Virginia last year, state Republican leaders switched their system for selecting a nominee for governor from a primary to a convention, a decision that all but guaranteed Mr. Cuccinelli would be the party’s choice. It was a sudden turn of events that doomed the more moderate candidate, Lt. Gov. Bill Bolling.
去年在弗吉尼亚州，当地的共和党领导人将选举州长候选人的方式，从初选变成了党大会选举，这一决定基本上确保了库奇内利会获得共和党候选人资格。这一突如其来的意外变化，注定了更加温和的候选人副州长比尔·布林(Bill Bolling)的失败。
Mr. Bolling and his allies in the party had persuaded their state board to hold a primary that would be open to all voters. Outraged conservatives, many of them loyal to the former presidential candidate Ron Paul, successfully captured slots on the board and reversed the decision.
此前，布林和他的党内盟友成功地游说州委会举办面向所有选民的初选。此举激起了保守派的怒火，其中很多人都是前总统候选人罗恩·保罗(Ron Paul)的支持者。他们最终获取了州委会的席位，从而逆转了上述决定。
Their maneuver resulted in a slate of far-right candidates at the top of the ticket, including the lieutenant governor nominee, a minister named E. W. Jackson who has a history of inflammatory remarks, such as when he compared Planned Parenthood to the Ku Klux Klan and associated homosexuality with pedophilia.
这种操控导致一系列的极右翼人士获取了候选人资格，包括了副州长候选人，一位叫做E·W·杰克逊(E. W. Jackson)，曾发表煽动言论的牧师。他曾经将计划生育比作三K党，还将同性恋跟恋童癖联系起来。
To revert back to a primary system would be difficult but not impossible, Republicans in the state said this week, especially given the soul-searching that Mr. Cuccinelli’s loss has inspired.
该州的共和党人在本周表示，虽然将选举模式变回初选的方式比较困难，但也不是没有办法。特别是库奇内利失利之后，人们肯定会开始反思。
“The convention method is political arsenic, pure and simple,” said Mike Murphy, a veteran Republican consultant. “It incentivizes our candidates to appeal to the base voters they already get for free, not the swing voters they need to win.”
迈克·墨菲(Mike Murphy)是一位经验丰富的共和党顾问。他说，“非常简单，党大会的模式就是政治毒药。这种模式下，我们的候选人只要去迎合自己的铁杆选民就可以了，但是这些人不用费力气也会投你的票；候选人们不会去管那些举棋不定的选民，但是最后赢得这些人才能赢得竞选。”