KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The case of the missing corn seeds first broke in May 2011 when a manager at a DuPont research farm in east-central Iowa noticed a man on his knees, digging up the field. When confronted, the man, Mo Hailong, who was with his colleague Wang Lei, appeared flushed. Mr. Mo told the manager that he worked for the University of Iowa and was traveling to a conference nearby. When the manager paused to answer his cellphone, the two men sped off in a car, racing through a ditch to get away, federal authorities said.
密苏里州堪萨斯城——这桩玉米种子失窃案要追溯到2011年5月。当时，位于艾奥瓦州中东部的杜邦公司(DuPont)科研农场的一名经理发现，一名男子正跪在地上挖土。被询问的时候，他似乎脸红了。他名叫莫海龙（音译），与同事王磊（音译）在一起。莫海龙告诉这名经理，他在艾奥瓦大学(University of Iowa)工作，是来附近的地方参加会议的。联邦当局表示，当经理停下来接电话的时候，两人跳上一辆小车，飞快地驶过一条沟渠逃跑了。
What ensued was about a year of F.B.I. surveillance of Mr. Mo and his associates, all but one of whom worked for the Beijing Dabeinong Technology Group or its subsidiary Kings Nower Seed. It resulted in the arrest of Mr. Mo last December and the indictment of five other Chinese citizens on charges of stealing trade secrets in what the authorities and agriculture experts have called an unusual and brazen scheme to undercut expensive, time-consuming research.
接下来，联邦调查局(FBI)对莫海龙及其同伙进行了一年左右的监控。除了一人之外，其他人均为大北农集团或其下属的金色农华种业公司的员工。监控的结果是莫海龙于去年12月被捕，另有五名中国公民以盗窃贸易机密的罪名被起诉。联邦当局与农业专家称，这是一起非比寻常的、无耻的阴谋，目的是为了获取他人耗费了大量金钱与时间的研究成果。
The case of Mr. Mo — who was arraigned last week in Des Moines, pleaded not guilty and remains in custody — and a separate one in Kansas last year suggest that the agriculture sector is becoming a greater target, something that industry analysts fear could hurt the competitive advantage of farmers and big agriculture alike.
莫海龙一案——他于上周在得梅因被传讯，做出了无罪抗辩，并继续遭到拘押——以及去年在堪萨斯州的另一桩案件表明，农业部门正成为更大的目标。行业分析人士担心，这可能会同时损害美国农场主与大型农业集团的竞争优势。
“Agriculture is an emerging trend that we’re seeing,” said Robert Anderson Jr., assistant director of counterintelligence at the F.B.I., adding that the trend has developed internationally in the last two years. “It’s pretty clear cut. Before then, the majority of the countries and hostile intelligence services within those countries were stealing the other stuff.”
“我们看到，农业是一个新的热点，”FBI反情报部门的助理主管小罗伯特·安德森(Robert Anderson Jr.,)说。他还表示，过去两年里这已经发展成为一种国际性的趋势。“这是非常明显的。在此之前，大部分的国家以及来自这些国家的敌对情报机构偷的都不是这些东西。”
The defendants in the Mo case visited numerous seed testing fields in Iowa and Illinois that were used by the big agriculture companies Pioneer, Monsanto and LG Seeds, the authorities said. They bought a test plot of their own in Illinois, according to the complaint, and concealed stolen seeds in, among other things, microwave popcorn boxes and napkins from Subway restaurants.
当局称，莫海龙一案的被告曾前往艾奥瓦州和伊利诺伊州的多块种子试验田，而这些试验田的测试方为杜邦先锋(Pioneer)、孟山都(Monsanto)和LG种业(LG Seeds)等农业巨头。起诉书称，被告在伊利诺伊州购买了一小块自己的试验田，将偷来的种子藏在微波炉爆米花包装盒和赛百味(Subway)餐厅的餐巾纸等东西里。
The seeds that they were after are called inbreds, meaning they come from self-pollinating corn plants. Inbreds are eventually crossed with other inbreds to create hybrid seeds that are then sold to farmers, and they are bred to be durable in the face of drought and pests. One inbred line takes five to eight years of research and can cost $30 million to $40 million to develop, federal prosecutors said.
他们想要的是自交系种子，也就是玉米植株的自授粉产物。自交系最终会与其他自交系杂交，培育出杂交种子，然后出售给农民。这种种子有能力抵御干旱和害虫的侵扰。联邦检察部门称，一种自交系需要耗费五到八年的科研时间，成本可达3000万到4000万美元（约合2.4亿元人民币）。
A company or farmer can replant a stolen inbred seed and eventually use the new seeds to cross with a separate inbred to produce a hybrid — a shortcut that avoids years of costly research.
企业或个人可以移栽偷来的自交系种子，并且最终利用新种子来与另一种自交系杂交，以培育出杂交品种。这样走捷径能够省下多年的高成本科研。
“These are quite brazen facts,” said Jay P. Kesan, a professor at the University of Illinois who specializes in intellectual property and technology law. “What makes this different, I guess, is really the extent to which these entities seem to have gone to try to get at these trade secrets.”
“这些都是相当无耻的事实，”伊利诺伊大学(University of Illinois)专于知识产权与技术法的教授杰伊·P·盖桑(Jay P. Kesan)说。“我想，本案的不同之处在于，为了获得商业机密，这些实体似乎达到了无所不至的程度。”
Mr. Mo, 44, was arrested at his home in Boca Raton, Fla., but the other defendants are not in custody, and the authorities have declined to comment on their status. Mr. Mo’s lawyer denies that his client, a seed dealer and permanent resident who he said moved to the United States 15 years ago, did anything wrong. In the other seed case, Zhang Weiqiang, of Manhattan, Kan., a rice breeder for Ventria Bioscience, a Colorado-based biopharmaceutical company, and Yan Wengui, of Stuttgart, Ark., a research geneticist for the federal Agriculture Department, are accused of giving proprietary rice seeds that contained medicinal qualities to crop researchers in their native China.
现年44岁的莫海龙在佛罗里达州博卡拉顿的家中被捕，但其他被告目前并未遭到羁押，当局也拒绝就他们的状态予以置评。莫海龙的律师否认自己的客户有任何不当行为，称其为种子经销商，15年前移居美国，目前是永久居民。在另一起案件中，家住堪萨斯州曼哈顿的张伟强（音译），以及阿肯色州斯图加特的严文贵（音译），被控将具有药性的专利稻米种子交给祖国中国的农作物研究人员。张伟强为总部在科罗拉多州的生物医药企业文特里亚生科(Ventria Bioscience)工作，是稻米培育员；而严文贵则是在联邦农业部从事研究工作的基因学家。
In 2012, Mr. Zhang, 47, a permanent resident, and Mr. Yan, 63, a naturalized citizen, both made trips to China, where the authorities said they discussed research they had performed in the United States with Chinese scientists. The men then arranged for a group from the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science and the Crop Research Institute in China to travel to the United States last year. They brought the group to the Ventria facility in Kansas where Mr. Zhang worked and to his home, and to the federal agriculture facility in Arkansas where Mr. Yan worked.
2012年，47岁的永久居民张伟强和63岁的归化公民严文贵都曾前往中国，当局称他们与中国科学家探讨了自己在美国进行的研究。去年，两人安排中国农业科学院和作物研究所的代表团访问美国。他们将该代表团带到了张伟强的工作场所——位于堪萨斯州的文特里亚农场、他的住所，以及位于阿肯色州的联邦农场，也就是严文贵的工作场所。
The proprietary rice seeds were found in the luggage of members of the Chinese delegation as they tried to leave the country, according to the indictment, and at the home of Mr. Zhang, who, along with Mr. Yan, was arrested in December.
根据起诉书所述，中国代表团准备离开美国时，有人在代表团成员的行李中发现了专利稻米种子，在张伟强的家中也找到此类种子。张伟强和严文贵于去年12月被逮捕。
As seed technology has become more costly and time consuming to develop, “in some people’s eyes, it makes it more advantageous for them” to try to steal it because it “enables them to get a jump on three to five years of research on the back of somebody else’s time and effort that was put in,” said Andrew W. LaVigne, the president and chief executive of the American Seed Trade Association.
美国种子贸易协会(American Seed Trade Association)主席兼首席执行官安德鲁·W·拉维涅(Andrew W. LaVigne)表示，随着种子技术的研发需要耗费的成本与时间越来越多，“在一些人的眼里，这更有利于他们”偷窃种子，因为这“使他们能够借助别人投入的时间与努力，节省三到五年的研究时间。”
American farmers are concerned that stolen seeds could give their Chinese counterparts an unfair advantage because they could get access to the technologically advanced hybrids at lower prices, said Dave Miller, the research director for the Iowa Farm Bureau.
艾奥瓦州农业局(Farm Bureau)的研究主任戴夫·米勒(Dave Miller)表示，美国的务农者担心被盗的种子可能会给中国务农者带来不公的优势，因为他们能够以较低的价格获得通过先进技术研发的杂交种子。
Foreign vegetable seeds make up 80 percent of the Chinese market, said Guo Ming, a consultant specializing in corn breeds for a Beijing-based agribusiness firm. Multinational corporations’ share of the corn seed market in China grew from a tenth of a percent just over a decade ago to 11 percent in 2011, according to an article published last year in People’s Daily, the Communist Party’s official newspaper. Although China’s domestic corn output has been growing over the years, the yield per corn plant has not grown significantly.
郭明是一家总部位于北京的农业公司的玉米品种顾问，她表示，外国蔬菜种子在中国市场中占据80%的份额。根据《人民日报》去年发表的一篇文章，2011年，跨国公司在中国玉米种子市场的份额从10年前的0.1%增长至11%。虽然中国国内的玉米产量多年来不断增长，但玉米的单位产量没有出现大幅增长。
The Chinese have not developed a major corn hybrid since 2001, though the country’s second most popular corn, which debuted in 2007, was a collaboration between Pioneer and a Chinese company.
自2001年以来，中国没有研发出任何重要的杂交玉米种子，不过于2007年推出的排名第二的玉米种子是由杜邦先锋与一家中国公司合作研发的。
Analysts say one of the major problems is the fragmented seed industry in China. Much of the breeding research is done in state-funded universities and academies, and there is poor communication between them and the companies that sell and trade the seeds. So research often fails to yield strong commercial results. This structure also has fostered theft within the Chinese seed market, Ms. Guo, the breeding consultant, said.
分析人士表示，主要问题在于中国的种子产业是分散的。大部分育种研究工作由国家资助的大学及研究院完成，这些机构与买卖种子的公司之间缺乏沟通。因此研究工作常常无法带来丰厚的商业收益。育种顾问郭明表示，这种结构还致使中国种子市场内部出现偷窃行为。
“Some seed trading companies just went to breeding bases to steal the seeds,” she said. “Some breeding companies would outsource breeding to farmers, but when the seeds were harvested, the farmers wouldn’t sell back to the breeding company because seed trading companies pay more.”
“有的种子公司直接去种子基地偷种子，”她说。“有些育种公司把种子交给农民代繁，种子收获以后，农民不卖回给你，有种子公司出更高的价钱来买，他们买回去，再高价卖出。”
Those trading companies would then sell the seeds at a premium, Ms. Guo continued, making an exorbitant profit on a product that cost them nothing to develop.
郭明还表示，然后，这些贸易公司会以高价出售种子，赚取暴利，他们没有投入成本进行研发。
“That’s the ethos here,” she said.
“风气就是这样，”她说。
“These varieties that Pioneer has, have shown to be better than the best varieties they’ve got in China,” said Carl E. Pray, a professor of agriculture, food and resource economics at Rutgers. “If they’re going to compete with multinationals, even in China, they need to get access to the basic material that multinationals are using.”
“事实证明，杜邦先锋研发的品种要优于中国的最佳品种，”罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)农业、食品及资源经济学教授卡尔·E·普雷(Carl E. Pray)说。“如果他们打算与跨国公司竞争，即便是在中国竞争，他们也需要获得跨国公司使用的基本原料。”