BEIJING — Secretary of State John Kerry warned on Wednesday that if China failed to do more to curb North Korea’s enhanced nuclear capacity, Washington would take steps that China has strongly opposed, including deploying defense systems to protect American allies in Asia.
北京——美国国务卿约翰·克里周三发出警告，表示如果中国不采取更多行动遏制朝鲜日益增强的核能力，华盛顿将采取中国曾强烈反对的一些措施，包括部署防御系统，以保护美国在亚洲的盟友。
“This is a threat the United States must take extremely seriously,” Mr. Kerry said of North Korea’s growing nuclear arsenal at a news conference with the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi. “The United States will take all necessary steps to protect our people and allies. We don’t want to heighten security tensions. But we won’t walk away from any options.”
“这是美国必须极端重视的一个威胁，”克里在与中国外交部长王毅一起参加的一场新闻发布会上讲道，这里的威胁指的是朝鲜日益强大的核武库。“美国将采取所有必要的措施，保护我们的人民和盟友。我们不想加剧这一地区本就紧张的安全形势，但我们不会放弃任何选择。”
Mr. Kerry adopted the tough tone after nearly five hours of talks with Mr. Wang that were dominated by North Korea and what the United States and China, a treaty ally of the North, should do in the aftermath of its fourth nuclear test.
在发表上述强硬言论之前，克里与王毅进行了将近五个小时的会谈，主要围绕朝鲜问题，讨论在朝鲜进行第四次核试验之后，美国和朝鲜的盟国中国应该如何应对。
The secretary was referring to the deployment of a missile defense system to South Korea that has been under discussion for some time but that the South, an American ally, has resisted because of China’s opposition.
克里所说的措施指的是在韩国部署导弹防御系统，美国已经就这一提议与其盟友韩国商讨了一段时间，韩国一直没有接受，因为中国对此表示反对。
But after the North Korean test on Jan. 6, the South’s president, Park Geun-hye, said she would consider accepting the missile system — called Thaad, for Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense — to better cope with the North’s growing nuclear and missile threats.
但1月6日朝鲜再度进行核试验之后，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)表示，她会考虑接受在韩国部署导弹防御系统的提议，以便更好地应对朝鲜日益增长的核威胁和导弹威胁。该防御系统全称为末段高空区域防御(Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense)，简称“萨德”(Thaad)。
China agreed during the talks on Wednesday to new United Nations sanctions against the North, and negotiations on their content will proceed in the coming days, Mr. Wang said. But these new sanctions “must not provoke new tensions,” he said.
在周三的会谈中，中国同意联合国安理会对朝鲜采取新制裁措施，王毅表示，在接下来的几天，中国会就制裁的具体内容与各方进行商讨。但他说，这些新制裁措施“不是为了刺激局势紧张”。
A draft of new sanctions was sent to China about 10 days ago, but by the time Mr. Kerry arrived in Beijing, China had not responded in substance, American officials said.
有美国官员表示，一份有关新制裁的草案在10天前就被送至中国，但直到克里抵达北京，中国也不曾做出任何实质性的回应。
Suggesting that the Obama administration was evincing a little too much concern about the North Korean nuclear test, and that Washington’s attention would soon drift away, Mr. Wang said that China “will not be swayed by specific events or the temporary mood of the moment.”
王毅表示中国的立场“不会受一时一事影响，不会因喜怒哀乐而改变”，暗示奥巴马政府对朝鲜核试验问题有点过于关切，而且华盛顿的注意力很快就会转移。
Mr. Wang stuck to a basic theme, that China’s preference is the reconvening of talks on North Korea. “Sanctions are not an end in themselves,” he said.
王毅一直坚持这样一个基调，即中国更愿意重启有关半岛核问题的对话谈判。“制裁不是目的，”他说。
Mr. Kerry made clear that the United States’ position was that China, North Korea’s biggest trading partner, needed to use its leverage and what he called its “connections” with the country to pressure it to give up its nuclear arsenal.
克里也清楚地表明了美国的立场，即中国是朝鲜最大的贸易伙伴，它需要利用自身的影响力，或者他所说的“关系”，向朝鲜施压，迫使它放弃发展核武器。
Washington would like China to curb exports of oil, including aviation fuel, that help keep the bare-bones North Korean economy afloat. It has also asked China to crack down on its banks and businesses that give the North access to foreign exchange.
华盛顿希望中国能控制对朝鲜的石油出口，包括能帮助朝鲜维持基本经济运转的航空燃料。它还要求中国对其银行和商业机构采取严厉措施，限制它们给朝鲜提供外汇。
A bill calling for sanctions against Chinese entities that help North Korea in its military programs, criminal activities and money laundering recently passed with strong support in the House of Representatives.
最近美国众议院高票通过一项议案，呼吁对某些中国实体进行制裁，因为它们帮助朝鲜建造军事项目、从事犯罪活动，还帮他们洗钱。
As part of his attempt to persuade Beijing, Mr. Kerry used the example of the recent Iran deal: The restrictions on Iran’s banks and financial institutions to conduct transactions abroad helped bring that country to the negotiating table over its nuclear program, a feat that Mr. Kerry led and that China supported, along with Russia.
克里还拿伊朗最近的情况做例子，试图劝说北京采取行动：禁止伊朗的银行和金融机构在海外进行交易，帮助实现了让伊朗重新回到谈判桌商议其核项目的目标，这是在中国和俄罗斯支持之下，由克里主导实现的一项伟业。
Mr. Kerry used the news conference to publicly call on China to take similar actions against North Korea and to create another “united front.”
克里利用这场新闻发布会公开呼吁中国对朝鲜采取类似的行动，打造另一个“统一战线”。
“With all due respect, more significant and impactful sanctions were put against Iran, which did not have nuclear weapons, than against North Korea, which does,” Mr. Kerry said.
“恕我直言，我们对没有核武器的伊朗所实施的制裁，比对拥有核武器的朝鲜实施的制裁更严重，也更为有效，”克里说。
The secretary faces a tough sell. President Xi Jinping of China made a decision last year that it was better for China to have a friendly nuclear-armed North Korea on its border than a hostile nuclear-armed North Korea, Chinese analysts have said.
克里要说服中国并不容易。多名中国分析人士表示，中国国家主席习近平在去年已经做出决定，相比于一个持有核武器且对中国怀有敌意的朝鲜，中国更愿意和一个持有核武器但对中国友善的朝鲜做邻居。
“For China, the worst-case scenario is you push North Korea over to become an enemy with nuclear weapons,” said Zhang Baohui, director of the Center for Asian Pacific Studies at Lingnan University in Hong Kong. “I think China has decided to tolerate North Korea as a nuclear state.”
“对中国来说，最糟糕的情况就是把朝鲜逼得太狠，使它变成一个持有核武器的敌人，”香港岭南大学亚太研究中心主任张泊汇说。“我觉得中国已经决定容忍朝鲜成为一个核武国家。”
Mr. Xi sent a top lieutenant, Liu Yunshan, a member of the Standing Committee of the Politburo, to the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, in October to attend a military parade and to deliver a personal letter from Mr. Xi to the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un.
去年10月，习近平曾经派遣中国级别最高的官员之一、中共中央政治局常委刘云山前往朝鲜首都平壤参加一场阅兵式，并转交习近平给朝鲜领导人金正恩的一封私人信函。
Nevertheless, Mr. Zhang said, China has urged North Korea to denuclearize. And the North’s detonation of a nuclear device on Jan. 6 was a way of telling Beijing that it could not dictate the country’s foreign policy, Mr. Zhang said.
不过，张泊汇表示，中国此前也在敦促朝鲜停止试验核武器。而朝鲜在1月6日引爆一个核装置，是在用这样一种方式告诉北京，中国不能对朝鲜下命令，无权决定它采取什么样的外交政策。
Chinese officials have told their American counterparts that they were not informed of the timing of the test and that it came as a surprise.
有数名中国官员告诉美国官员，他们此前没有接到朝鲜要进行核试验的通知，所以他们也很意外。
China has accused Washington of using the North Korean nuclear tests as an excuse to deploy the missile defense system in South Korea.
中国指责华盛顿欲以朝鲜核试验为借口，在韩国部署导弹防御系统。