Donald J. Trump crushed his Republican opponents in Pennsylvania, Maryland and three other states on Tuesday, a sweep that put him considerably closer to capturing the party’s presidential nomination outright, while Hillary Clinton won Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Maryland and Delaware and was battling to amass enough delegates to claim the Democratic nomination as early as mid-May.
周二，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在宾夕法尼亚、马里兰和其他三个州的共和党初选中大胜竞选对手，距离锁定共和党总统提名人又靠近了一大步。与此同时，希拉里在宾夕法尼亚、康涅狄格、马里兰和特拉华四州获得胜利。她正在力争累积足够多的代表数，以便最早在5月中旬就稳获民主党提名资格。
Though Mr. Trump was widely expected to dominate the primaries, his margins of victory intensified the aura of inevitability around his bid to lead the Republicans, and created urgent new challenges for his rivals. More significant, they increased his chances of avoiding a fight on the floor of the party’s convention in July and of claiming the nomination on the delegates’ first ballot.
虽然特朗普在全部五个州成为赢家符合普遍预期，但其中的优势之大进一步加强了他将不可避免成为共和党提名人的势头，也给他的对手带来了迫在眉睫的新挑战。更值得注意的是，这增加了他在7月的共和党大会上免于同对手较量的机会，更加有望在代表们的第一轮投票中直接获得提名。
The other Republican candidates, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, fared so poorly on Tuesday that they were likely to lose most of the 118 bound delegates up for grabs across the Northeast. Rhode Island, Connecticut and Delaware also went for Mr. Trump.
周二当天，共和党其他候选人——德克萨斯州联邦参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和俄亥俄州州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)——表现太过糟糕，导致他们很可能失去东北部几个州可供争夺的118名受限代表中的绝大部分。特朗普还拿下了罗德岛、康涅狄格和特拉华。
Mr. Cruz is now under intense pressure to beat Mr. Trump in Indiana’s primary next week, perhaps the last real chance the stop-Trump forces have to halt his march to the nomination. He and Mr. Kasich forged an alliance to stop Mr. Trump in Indiana, but it already appears strained.
克鲁兹现在承受着巨大的压力，必须在下周印第安纳州的初选中打败特朗普。这或许是意欲阻拦特朗普的各方力量中断他赢得提名之旅的最后机会。为了在印第安纳州打败特朗普，克鲁兹和卡西奇结成了联盟，但这种关系似乎已经受到了考验。
Even before polls closed in the East on Tuesday night, Mr. Cruz tried to pre-empt the rush of coverage about Mr. Trump’s dominance.
早在周二晚上东部的投票结束前，克鲁兹就试图预先阻止媒体对特朗普的强势表现进行铺天盖地的报道。
“Tonight this campaign moves back to more favorable terrain,” Mr. Cruz told supporters in the Knightstown, Ind., gymnasium where the high school basketball movie “Hoosiers,” about underdogs who triumph over a big-city rival, was filmed.
“今晚，这场竞选回到了更合乎时宜的场地，”克鲁兹在印第安纳州奈茨敦的一座体育馆里对记者说。高中篮球电影《火爆教头草地兵》(Hoosiers)便是在这座球馆拍摄的。片子讲述了一支不被看好的球队打败大城市里的竞争对手的故事。
On the Democratic side, while Senator Bernie Sanders won the primary in Rhode Island, Mrs. Clinton was poised to pick up significantly more delegates in Maryland and Pennsylvania in particular. Her advisers predicted that she would net at least 30 more pledged delegates over all — and perhaps significantly more — to add to her lead of about 240 going into the primaries.
在民主党一方，尽管参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)在罗德岛的初选中获胜，但克林顿已经锁定了在马里兰和宾夕法尼亚的明显优势。克林顿的幕僚预言，她当晚会净胜至少30名受限代表——甚至可能比这个数目还要高不少——让她在初选中领先大约240名代表的优势进一步扩大。
Clinton advisers said Tuesday’s final delegate tally would reveal not if, but when, Mrs. Clinton would win the nomination: either in early June, if she continues at her current pace, or as soon as the Kentucky and Oregon primaries on May 17, if she does better than expected in the coming weeks, once her support from more than 500 superdelegates is included. Superdelegates could switch their votes at any point, but Mrs. Clinton’s are widely considered to be staunch supporters.
克林顿的幕僚表示，周二当天的最终代表总数透露出的信息不是克林顿能否赢得提名，而是何时赢得：要么是6月初，如果她继续保持当前态势的话；而如果在未来几周的表现好于预期，一旦将500多名超级代表的支持考虑在内，那么她最早在5月17日肯塔基州和俄勒冈州举行初选时便可以锁定提名。超级代表随时可以改投他人，不过外界普遍认为，克林顿争取到的超级代表会坚定地支持她。
Mrs. Clinton predicted that she would return to Philadelphia this summer for the Democratic convention “with the most votes and the most pledged delegates.” But she also looked past her competition with Mr. Sanders, taking a swipe at Mr. Trump and his campaign motto, “Make America Great Again.”
克林顿预言自己今年夏天会“带着最多的选票和最多的受限代表”回到费城，参加民主党全国大会。不过，她也不忘越过与桑德斯的竞争，抨击特朗和他的竞选口号：“让美国恢复伟大荣光”。
“Despite what other candidates say, we believe in the goodness of our people and the greatness of our nation,” Mrs. Clinton said.
“不管其他候选人怎么说，我们相信我们民众的善良，我们国家的伟大，”克林顿说。
Mr. Sanders, speaking Tuesday night at a rally in West Virginia, which votes May 10, said emphatically that he would stay in the race. He made an unusually pointed appeal to superdelegates, arguing that he had won more votes from independents and from Republicans than Mrs. Clinton and would be a stronger general election candidate.
周二晚上，桑德斯在西弗吉尼亚州的一场集会上发表讲话时坚定地表示，他将坚持到底。他异乎寻常地针对超级代表发出呼吁，提出他赢取的独立派和共和党人的选票比克林顿多，因而会是更有力的大选候选人。
“As of today, we have won 16 primaries and caucuses all over this country, and with your help we’re going to win here in West Virginia,” Mr. Sanders said.
“截至今天，我们赢下了全国16场初选和预选会。在你们的帮助下，我们还将在西弗吉尼亚州这里取得胜利，”桑德斯说。
For all his fortitude, Mr. Sanders plans to reassess his candidacy on Wednesday and decide whether to adjust his strategy if Mrs. Clinton’s delegate lead appears all but insurmountable. His senior strategist, Tad Devine, said the Sanders team would discuss a range of issues including how to adjust messaging about the nominating process and what route if any there is to winning it. Mr. Devine said he could still see a mathematical path to securing the nomination but added that if it changed, the campaign would have to adjust.
虽然态度坚定，但桑德斯计划周三重新评估自己的竞选状况，并决定如果克林顿的代表人数领先优势几乎无法逾越的话，他是否要调整自己的战略。他的高级策略师塔德·迪瓦恩(Tad Devine)称，桑德斯团队会讨论一系列议题，包括如何调整和提名程序有关的对外沟通手法，以及倘若有赢得提名的方式的话，这种方式是什么。迪瓦恩表示他依然认为数字上可以有办法来拿到提名，但又说如果情况发生了变化，则竞选团队不得不进行调整。
“If we are sitting here and there’s no sort of mathematical way to do it, we will be up front about that,” Mr. Devine said Tuesday.
“要是我们只是干坐着，理论上没有一种办法可以办到，那我们会坦白承认的，”迪瓦恩周二说。
The broad support for Mr. Trump spanned some of the dividing lines that have characterized the Republican race until now: He won among the affluent and college-educated as well as with blue-collar voters and those with no more than a high school education, according to exit polls.
此前，共和党提名争夺的一大特点是分歧众多。但这次的出口民调显示，对特朗普的广泛支持跨越了其中一些界线：他既赢得了富裕的和受过大学教育的选民手中的票，也得到了蓝领和学历不超过高中的选民的支持。
But the unease about Mr. Trump’s candidacy in some quarters of the party persisted, a potential warning sign if he emerges as the nominee. About a quarter of Republican primary voters in Connecticut, Maryland and Pennsylvania said they would not support him if he were the party’s nominee. The resistance to Mr. Trump was greatest among Mr. Kasich’s supporters, who are more moderate-leaning: Six in 10 said they would not vote for Mr. Trump in November.
但在党内的部分群体中，对特朗普候选人身份的担忧依然存在。如果他赢得提名，这会是一个潜在的警报信号。康涅狄格、马里兰和宾夕法尼亚大约四分之一的共和党初选选民表示，如果特朗普成为该党的提名人选，他们不会支持他。卡西奇的支持者更倾向于温和派，对特朗普的抵触是最强烈的：60%的人宣称不会在11月的大选中投给特朗普。