Federal health authorities on Tuesday reported a stunning 43 percent drop in the obesity rate among 2- to 5-year-old children over the past decade, the first broad decline in an epidemic that often leads to lifelong struggles with weight and higher risks for cancer, heart disease and stroke.
周二，联邦卫生官员宣布，在过去十年里，美国2到5岁儿童中的肥胖率大幅下滑了43%，是肥胖症发病率的首次大范围下降。患有肥胖症这种流行病的人往往终生为体重烦恼，也面临着更高的癌症、心脏病和脑卒中的风险。
The drop emerged from a major federal health survey that experts say is the gold standard for evidence on what Americans weigh. The trend came as a welcome surprise to researchers. New evidence has shown that obesity takes hold young: Children who are overweight or obese between age 3 and 5 are five times as likely to be overweight or obese as adults.
一项大型联邦公共卫生调查得出了大幅下降的结论。专家们表示，这项调查提供了有关美国人体重的最权威的证据，是一杆标尺。这一趋势也让调查人员感到惊讶而欣喜。新证据显示，肥胖症往往会在幼年时期形成：在3到5岁期间超重或肥胖的儿童，成年后超重或肥胖的可能性是常人的5倍。
A smattering of states have reported modest progress in reducing childhood obesity in recent years, and last year federal authorities noted a slight decline in the obesity rate among low-income children. But the figures on Tuesday showed a sharp fall in obesity rates among all 2- to 5-year-olds, offering the first clear evidence that America's youngest children have turned a corner in the obesity epidemic. About 8 percent of 2- to 5-year-olds were obese in 2012, down from 14 percent in 2004.
少数几个州近几年在减少儿童肥胖上取得了一些进步。联邦官员去年指出，低收入家庭儿童中的肥胖率略有下降。但周二的数字则显示出所有2到5岁儿童群体中肥胖率的大幅下滑，第一次清晰地证明，美国幼童在与肥胖症的斗争中，已经度过了最艰难的时刻。2012年，2到5岁儿童群体中患有肥胖症的比例已从2004年的14%减少到大约8%。
“This is the first time we've seen any indication of any significant decrease in any group,” said Cynthia Ogden, a researcher for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the author of the report, which will be published in JAMA, The Journal of the American Medical Association, on Wednesday. “It was exciting.”
“不论哪个群体，这都是我们第一次看到显著下降的迹象，”美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的研究员辛西娅·奥格登(Cynthia Ogden)说。她也是这份将于周三发表在《美国医学会杂志》（The Journal of the American Medical Association，简称JAMA）的报告的作者。“这令人振奋。”
She cautioned that these very young children make up a tiny fraction of the American population and that the figures for the broader society had remained flat, and had even increased for women over 60. A third of adults and 17 percent of youth are obese, the federal survey found. Still, the lower obesity rates in the very young bode well for the future, researchers said.
但她警告，这些幼童仅占美国人口中很小的一部分，而从全社会来说，肥胖率并没有什么变化。相反地，在60岁以上妇女中的比例还有所增加。联邦调查显示，有三分之一的美国成年人和17%的未成年人患有肥胖症。尽管如此，研究人员表示，幼年人群中肥胖率的减少从长远来说是件好事。
There was little consensus on why the decline might be happening, but many theories.
至于为什么会出现这样的下降，研究人员们提出了很多的理论解释，但并没有形成什么一致意见。
Children now consume fewer calories from sugary beverages than they did in 1999. More women are breast-feeding, which can lead to a healthier range of weight gain for young children. Federal researchers have also chronicled a drop in overall calories for children in the past decade, down by 7 percent for boys and 4 percent for girls, but health experts said those declines were too small to make much difference.
相比起1999年，如今的儿童从含糖饮料中摄入的卡路里要少。更多妇女采取母乳喂养方式，而这会让幼童体重的增加保持在更健康的范围内。联邦调查人员还通过连续记录发现，在过去十年里，儿童总体的卡路里摄入有所减少，男童下降了7%，女童下降了4%。然而，公共卫生专家表示，这些下滑幅度太小，不足以带来太多的变化。
Barry M. Popkin, a researcher at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill who has tracked American food purchases in a large data project, said families with children have been buying foods that contain fewer calories over the past decade, a pattern he said was unrelated to the economic downturn. He credited those habits, and changes in a federally funded nutrition program — the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children — for the decline in obesity among young children. The program, which subsidizes food for low-income women, reduced funding for fruit juices, cheese and eggs and increased it for whole fruits and vegetables.
北卡罗来纳大学教堂山分校(University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill)的研究员巴里·M·波普金(Barry M. Popkin)参与了一项大型数据项目，跟踪记录了美国的食品采购行为。他表示，有孩子的家庭在过去十年采购了含卡路里较少的食品，他还说这一趋势和经济衰退无关。他认为，幼童中肥胖率的减少要归功于这样的一些好习惯，以及由联邦政府出资的营养项目“妇女、婴儿与儿童特别营养补充计划”(Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children)中的一些改变。这项计划向低收入女性提供食品补助，它减少了对果汁、奶酪和鸡蛋的补贴，同时增加了对水果和蔬菜的补助。
Another possible explanation is that some combination of state, local and federal policies aimed at reducing obesity is starting to make a difference. Michelle Obama, the first lady, has led a push to change young children's eating and exercise habits and 10,000 child care centers across the country have signed on. The news announcement from the CDC included a remark from Obama: “I am thrilled at the progress we've made over the last few years in obesity rates among our youngest Americans.”
另一个可能的原因是，各州、各地方和联邦政府为了减少肥胖而制定的一些政策结合起来，终于开始带来改变。第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)推动了一场改变幼童饮食和运动习惯的运动，如今全国上下已有1万所幼儿园加入了这一行动。美国疾病控制与预防中心在宣布这则消息时，还提到了奥巴马夫人的一句评语：“对于我们过去几年在控制美国儿童肥胖率方面的进展，我无比兴奋。”
New York City under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg also made a major push to combat obesity. The city told restaurants to stop using artificial trans fats in cooking and required chain restaurants to display calorie information on their menus.
在市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)执政时期，纽约也在抗击肥胖症方面做出了重大的举措。市政府不仅要求饭馆在烹调食物时停止使用人工反式脂肪酸，还要求连锁餐厅在菜单上列出卡路里含量。
Many scientists doubt that anti-obesity programs actually work, but proponents of the programs say a broad set of policies applied systematically over a period of time can affect behavior.
许多科学家怀疑，那些反肥胖项目是不是真能起效，但支持这种项目的人表示，在一段时间里系统性地实施一揽子措施，是可以影响人们的行为的。
The obesity rate for preschoolers — 2- to 5-year-olds — has fluctuated over the years, but Ogden said the pattern became clear with a decade's worth of data. About 1 in 12 children in this age group were obese in 2012. Rates for blacks (1 in 9) and Hispanics (1 in 6) were much higher.
多年来，美国2到5岁学龄前儿童中的肥胖率时高时低，但奥格登称，十年的追踪数据让我们清楚地看到了其中的趋势。在2012年，这一年龄组的儿童中，每12个人里面有一个患有肥胖症。同年龄组的黑人儿童的肥胖率是九分之一，西语裔美国儿童则是六分之一，比例都要高得多。
Researchers welcomed the drop but cautioned that only time will tell if the progress will be sustained.
研究人员对这种下降感到鼓舞，但也警告，只有时间能告诉我们，这样的进展能否持久。
“This is great news but I'm cautious,” said Ruth Loos, a professor of preventive medicine at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. “The picture will be clearer when we have a few more years of data.”
“这真是一个好消息，但我还是不想高兴得太早，”纽约市西奈山伊坎医学院(Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital)的预防医学教授露丝·卢斯(Ruth Loos)说。“如果再掌握多几年的数据，那么情况就会更明朗。”
Tom Baranowski, a professor of pediatrics at Baylor College of Medicine, said there was not enough data to determine whether the decline would spread to older children. Since 2003, the rate for youth overall — ages 2 to 19 — has remained flat, said Ogden, author of the CDC report.
贝勒医学院(Baylor College of Medicine)的儿科教授汤姆·巴兰诺夫斯基(Tom Baranowski)则认为，还没有足够的数据来确定，这样的下降是否会扩散到5岁以上的儿童中。美国疾病控制与预防中心报告的作者奥格登说，2003年以来，2到19岁未成年人群中总体的肥胖率就一直保持不变。
But 2- to 5-year-olds are perhaps the most significant age group, as it is in those years that obesity — and all the disease risk that comes with it — gets established and is later very difficult to shake, said Dr. Jeffrey P. Koplan, a professor of medicine and public health at Emory University in Atlanta.
不过，亚特兰大艾默理大学(Emory University)的医学与公共卫生学教授杰弗里·P·卡普兰博士(Jeffrey P. Koplan)表示，2到5岁可能是最重要的年龄组，因为就是在这个年龄段，肥胖症及与之相关的各种疾病风险得以形成，之后就很难摆脱了。
“You have to say maybe some real progress is taking place at the very time it can have the most impact,” Koplan said. He said he believed the decline was real, as the finding followed several studies that detected patterns of decline among young children, including one by researchers in Massachusetts and the large study by the CDC of low-income children.
“你不得不说，也许一些真正的进展正在发生，来得也正是时候，可能会带来最大的影响，”卡普兰说。他还表示，自己相信肥胖率下降真实存在，因为得出这一结果之前，就有几项研究显示了幼童肥胖率的降低趋势，其中一项是马萨诸塞州的研究人员做出的，还有美国疾病控制与预防中心针对低收入家庭儿童进行的那项大型研究。
“The weight of evidence is becoming more marked,” he said. Still, he cautioned that the age group was only a small slice of American society: “One blossom doesn't make a spring.”
“证据愈加有力了，”他说。但他还是警告，这一年龄组只占美国社会的一小部分。“一花独放不是春。”