WASHINGTON — A bill that would let the families of those killed in the Sept. 11 attacks sue Saudi Arabia for any role in the terror plot passed the Senate unanimously on Tuesday, bringing Congress closer to a showdown with the White House, which has threatened to veto the legislation.
华盛顿——周二，一项提案在参议院获得一致通过，令国会与白宫进一步走向摊牌。根据该提案，9·11事件丧生者的家属可以就沙特阿拉伯在那起恐怖袭击中发挥的作用提起诉讼。白宫已威胁要否决这项立法。
The Senate’s passage of the bill, which will now be taken up in the House, is another sign of escalating tensions in a relationship between the United States and Saudi Arabia. 
提案在参议院获得通过后，现在将被提交给众议院考虑。这是美国和沙特之间的关系趋于紧张的又一迹象。
Obama administration officials have lobbied against the bill, a view that White House spokesman Josh Earnest reiterated after the vote. And the Saudi government has warned that if the legislation passes, it might begin selling off up to $750 billion in Treasury securities and other assets in the United States before they face a danger of being frozen by U.S. courts. 
奥巴马政府的官员一直在开展游说活动，反对该提案。在参议院投票后，白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)重申了这一立场。沙特政府警告，如果通过立法，它可能会开始抛售高达7500亿美元的美国国债和在美国境内的其他资产，以免它们面临着被美国法院冻结的风险。
Many economists are skeptical that the Saudis would deliver on such a warning. 
对于沙特是否会兑现这样的警告，很多经济学家表示怀疑。
Questions about the role Saudi officials might have played in the Sept. 11 plot have lingered for more than a decade, and families of the victims have used various lawsuits to try to hold members of the Saudi royal family and charities liable for what they allege is financial support of terrorism. But these moves have been mostly blocked, in part because of a 1976 law that gives foreign nations some immunity from lawsuits in U.S. courts. 
关于沙特官员在9·11袭击中可能扮演的角色，有些疑问十多年悬而未决。受害者家属声称沙特皇室和慈善机构的一些成员给恐怖活动提供了资金支持，并对这些人发起了多次诉讼。但是，这些行动绝大部分遭到了阻拦，部分原因是1976年的一项法律使得外国在美国法院诉讼中拥有一定的豁免权。
The Senate bill carves out an exception to the law if foreign countries are found culpable for terrorist attacks that kill U.S. citizens within the United States. If the legislation were to pass both houses and be signed by the president, it could clear a path for the role of the Saudi government to be examined in the Sept. 11 lawsuits. 
参议院通过的提案给该法设定了一种例外情况：外国在美国境内参与了针对美国公民的恐怖袭击。倘若提案在两院获得通过，总统也同意签署，它就可能会为在9·11诉讼中调查沙特政府的作用扫清障碍。
“If the Saudis did not participate in this terrorism, they have nothing to fear about going to court,” said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. “If they did, they should be held accountable.” 
“如果沙特没有参与这个恐怖活动，他们就不怕走上法庭，”纽约州民主党参议员查克·舒默(Chuck Schumer)说。“如果他们参与了，就应该被追究责任。”
Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said the legislation was written in such a way that Americans would not be subject to legal action taken by other nations. 
德克萨斯州共和党参议员约翰·科宁(John Cornyn)表示，这项立法在措辞上有讲究，不会让美国人成为其他国家法律行动的目标。