KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has moved to the dark depths of the Indian Ocean with the first deployment of an unmanned submersible to scan the seabed for signs of wreckage, officials said Tuesday.
马来西亚吉隆坡——官员们周二表示，随着无人潜水器首次被部署在海底搜索失联的马航370次客机残骸，对失联客机的搜索已深入黑暗的印度洋深处。
But the inaugural mission of the torpedo-shaped submarine, a Bluefin-21, was cut short because it reached its maximum operating depth of about 2.8 miles, triggering a safety mechanism that forced it back to the surface, the Australian agency coordinating the search said.
然而，负责协调搜寻行动的澳大利亚机构表示，鱼雷形潜水器“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”(Bluefin-21)的首次搜索行动被迫中断，原因是它已到达水下约2.8英里（约4.5公里）的操作深度极限，由此触发安全系统，迫使它返回了水面。
The data the vehicle captured during its abbreviated mission, which occurred late Monday, yielded “no objects of interest,” according to a statement from the United States Navy’s Seventh Fleet, which is overseeing American naval involvement in the search.
蓝鳍是在周一晚间执行此次搜寻任务的。据美国海军第七舰队透露，，它在这次短暂搜索中捕捉到的数据未能揭示“值得注意的目标”。第七舰队负责协调美国海军的搜寻行动。
Officials had estimated that the ocean’s depth in that area was 2.8 miles, possibly deeper, stretching the vehicle’s capabilities. At a news conference on Monday, the lead coordinator, Angus Houston, said that if the challenges were too great for the Bluefin, the authorities would have to bring in another submersible with the ability to dive to greater depths, possibly delaying the search.
官员们此前估计，这片海域的深度是2.8英里，也许还更深，这一深度达到了蓝鳍的下潜能力极限。在周一的新闻发布会上，首席协调员安格斯·休斯顿(Angus Houston)说，如果蓝鳍遭遇的挑战太大，相关机构将不得不调用一台下潜能力更强的潜水器，搜寻行动可能会因此耽搁。
Officials said they planned to send the Bluefin back down on Tuesday if weather permitted; the forecast was for scattered showers and isolated thunderstorms with sea swells up to six feet. There was no immediate word, however, on whether the authorities planned to supplement the Bluefin with another submarine.
官员们表示，如果天气许可，他们计划于周二让蓝鳍潜入同一海域；天气预报称届时将有零星阵雨和局部风暴，海浪高度将达到6英尺（约1.8米）。不过，关于相关机构是否计划用另一艘潜水器替代蓝鳍，目前没有尚无明确消息。
The deployment of the Bluefin marked the start of a new phase in the search, shifting the emphasis to the sea bottom.
调用蓝鳍标志着搜寻行动进入了一个新阶段，其重点已转向海底。
The Bluefin, which is equipped with sonar mapping technology, was deployed in the area where four sets of pings were detected during the past two weeks by American technicians working aboard an Australian naval vessel, Ocean Shield.
配备了声纳绘图技术的蓝鳍开展工作的这片海域，正是澳大利亚海军舰船“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)上的美国技术人员于过去两周探测到四组ping信号的区域。
The vehicle was expected to spend about 20 hours in the water — two hours to descend to the seabed, 16 hours of exploring and another two hours to ascend. But after six hours, the submersible exceeded its depth limit, officials said.
人们本打算让这台设备在水中停留大约20小时——2小时用于潜下海底，16小时用于勘测，2小时用于浮上海面。但官员称，这台潜水设备在六小时后便超过了它的深度极限。
In the meantime, planes and vessels continued to scour the ocean surface in hopes of finding debris from the plane. Despite weeks of searching, no debris from the aircraft has been recovered.
与此同时，飞机和船只仍在继续搜索海面，希望能找到飞机残骸。搜寻已持续数周之久，但仍未发现这架飞机的任何残骸。
Up to nine military aircraft, two civil aircraft and 11 ships were scheduled to assist in Tuesday’s search. The aircraft and most of the search vessels were being deployed to areas where debris is likely to have drifted, hundreds of miles from where the underwater pings were detected.
按照计划，将有多达9架军用飞机、两架民用飞机和11艘船协助周二的搜索工作。飞机和大多数参与搜寻的船只都会被部署到残片可能漂到的区域，该区域距离侦测到水下ping信号的地方有数百英里。
The decision to deploy the Bluefin, and to shift the focus of the search to the seabed, was announced on Monday.
周一，相关机构宣布了部署蓝鳍并把搜索重心转到海底的决定。
An American team aboard Ocean Shield had been using an underwater listening device, called a towed pinger locator, to trawl for signals from the plane’s flight recorders, commonly known as black boxes.
此前，“海盾号”上的一支美国团队一直在使用一台名为拖曳式声波定位仪的水听设备，以拖网方式来搜寻飞机飞行记录仪发出的信号。飞行记录仪即通常所谓的黑匣子。
They detected two sets of signals on April 5 and two more on April 8 in an area about 1,000 miles northwest of Perth, Australia, and hoped to capture more signals to better identify the location of the sources.
在澳大利亚珀斯西北方向大约1000英里的区域，他们于4月5日侦测到两组信号，又于4月8日侦测到另外两组。他们本来希望捕捉到更多的信号，以便更好地定位信号源头。
But the absence of further pings, together with the belief that the batteries in the black boxes were at the end of their life span, led the authorities to conclude that they were unlikely to detect any further signals and that they needed to change tactics. The search authorities believe that the black boxes and the rest of the plane’s wreckage might provide crucial evidence in determining what caused the Boeing 777-200 to veer off its scheduled route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on March 8 and vanish with 239 people on board.
但是，由于没有侦测到更多的ping信号，而黑匣子的电池据信已经耗尽，相关机构便认定不太可能侦测到更多的信号，因而需要改变战略。负责搜索的官员认为，黑匣子和飞机残骸可能会提供关键证据，说明这架波音(Boeing)777-200为何会于3月8日偏离从吉隆坡飞往北京的预定航线，并与飞机上的239人一同消失。