Michael A. Downs, a businessman in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., says he is simply looking to profit from the growing demand in China for cars from the likes of Mercedes, BMW and Range Rover.
佛罗里达州劳德代尔堡商人迈克尔·A·唐斯(Michael A. Downs)说，他无非是看到中国对奔驰、宝马和路虎等车的需求增长，希望从中获利。
His three-year-old business recruits people in a dozen or so states to buy new cars from dealerships in the United States. He then sells those vehicles to other companies, which ship them to China. Once in China, the cars, which typically retail for $55,000 to $75,000 in the United States, can be resold for as much as three times those prices. “We’re taking advantage of a legitimate arbitrage situation,” he said.
他的这个生意已经做了三年，雇了十来个人到美国的车行购买新车。然后他把车卖给其他公司，这些公司再转手卖到中国。在美国通常售价为5.5到7.5万美元（约合人民币33.3到45.4万元）的车，到中国转手的价格可以达到这个的三倍。“我们是在利用一种合法套利的局面，”他说。
But to the federal government, businesses like Mr. Downs’s are potentially violating customs laws and deceiving auto manufacturers like Mercedes-Benz and BMW, which try to keep tight control over sales to domestic dealers and to foreign countries.
但在联邦政府看来，唐斯的这种买卖可能违反了海关法规，对梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)和宝马(BMW)等汽车制造商构成欺诈，这些制造商在尽可能严格地控制针对本土经销商和国外市场的销售。
Last year, federal prosecutors and agents with the Secret Service and the Department of Homeland Security began a broad crackdown on this “gray market” export business, which is estimated by some to be responsible for sending as many as 35,000 new luxury cars a year to China from the United States.
去年，联邦检察官和特勤局(Secret Service)、国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)执法人员开始对这个出口领域的“灰色市场”展开大范围的打击，据估计，美国每年通过这种方式销往中国的全新豪华汽车多达3.5万辆。
Federal prosecutors in half a dozen states — New Hampshire, New Jersey, Ohio, New York, Texas and South Carolina — have filed criminal or civil actions seeking to put a halt to the resale of luxury cars to China. Prosecutors have frozen bank accounts containing the proceeds from auto sales and seized hundreds of cars, some waiting to be shipped from cargo ports in Newark, Staten Island and Long Beach, Calif.
六个州的联邦检察官——新罕布什尔、新泽西、俄亥俄、纽约、德克萨斯和南卡罗来纳，已经发起刑事或民事诉讼，以求终止向中国转售豪华车的活动。检察官已经冻结了经手汽车销售的银行账户，没收了数百辆汽车，其中一些正在纽瓦克、史泰登岛和加利福尼亚长滩等货柜码头等待装船。
The authorities have even ordered cars already on ships headed to China to be returned to port. The seizures are continuing, with federal agents in the last week taking possession of a number of luxury cars in Maryland destined for sale in China, according to people briefed on the investigations. “What we have found is a scam and people looking to make a fast buck,” said United States Attorney John P. Kacavas of New Hampshire, whose office brought the first federal prosecution.
当局甚至下令要求正在运往中国途中的汽车回到港口。没收行动还在继续，据了解调查行动内情的人说，联邦执法人员上周在马里兰州控制了一些将销往中国的豪华车。新罕布什尔州联邦检察官约翰·P·卡卡瓦斯(John P. Kacavas)说，“迄今我们看到的是一场骗局，有人想从中不劳而获。”卡卡瓦斯的办公室发起了第一宗相关的联邦诉讼。
The aggressive crackdown, however, has raised questions about the role of law enforcement in what some contend is a commercial dispute that should be resolved through private litigation.
然而，这场大规模的打击行动也令人对执法部门在类似事件中的角色产生了质疑，在一些人看来，这是一场商业纠纷，应该通过私人诉讼来解决。
The domestic divisions of Mercedes-Benz and BMW say the clampdown by federal authorities is a legitimate attempt to regulate trade and to ensure that American consumers who want to own a car for personal use are not deprived of a chance to buy one.
奔驰和宝马的美国分公司称，联邦当局的严厉打击是合理行动，旨在进行贸易管制，确保希望购车自用的美国消费者不会被剥夺购买的机会。
“The BMW Group has been working closely with federal authorities for almost two years to stop illegal exports of our vehicles from the U.S.,” said Kenn Sparks, a spokesman for BMW of North America. “Illegal exports deny legitimate customers here in the U.S. the popular vehicles, which are in high demand.”
“宝马集团已经和联邦当局进行了将近两年的紧密合作，以求制止我们的车辆被非法出口，”宝马北美发言人肯·斯帕克斯(Kenn Sparks)说。“非法出口让真正的美国消费者无法获得一些受欢迎的车型，市场对这些车的需求很旺盛。”
Most car manufacturers require dealerships to verify that customers are not buying cars to quickly export them to overseas markets. Dealers can be penalized if a new car sold in the United States is traced to a subsequent buyer overseas.
大多数汽车制造商都会要求车行进行核实，确保顾客不是买到汽车后迅速出口到海外市场。如果一辆在美国售出的新车被查出在海外的后续买家手中，车行会被罚款。
In many cases brought by federal authorities, the buyers do not say that they intend to ship the newly purchased cars overseas.
在联邦当局发起调查的多宗案件中，买家没有说他们打算把新买的车运到海外。
Federal authorities are moving forward with illegal export cases at a time when luxury auto manufacturers are pressing to take advantage of the demand for high-end cars in China. On Wednesday, Daimler, the parent company of Mercedes, said it had sold 24,199 cars in China in January, an increase of 44 percent from a year ago.
联邦当局推进非法出口案件之时，正值豪华车制造商在加紧行动，利用中国市场对高端汽车的高需求获利。梅赛德斯公司的母公司戴姆勒(Daimler)在周三说，公司1月在中国售出了24199辆车，相比一年之前有44%的增长。
So far, most of the actions brought have been civil in nature, as the New Hampshire action is the only one in which anyone pleaded guilty to a crime.
目前大多数行动还是民事性质的，其中只有在新罕布什尔州的诉讼有人表示认罪。
But that may change as the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, has opened a criminal investigation into activity involving luxury car dealerships in New York and New Jersey, people briefed on the matter said.
不过，据熟悉内情的人说，随着纽约州检察长埃里克·T·施奈德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)开始对涉及纽约和新泽西豪华车行的活动进行刑事调查，情况可能会发生改变。
Lawyers, including former prosecutors, are divided on whether the federal government’s efforts are best spent going after activity in which the primary victim is a foreign automaker.
联邦政府在主要受害人是外国车厂的活动上耗费精力是否明智，包括前检察官在内法律人士看法不一。
“If you can prove some kind of deception, that usually is enough to let you bring the case as a legal matter,” said Aitan D. Goelman, a defense lawyer and former federal prosecutor. “But the more interesting question is, should you, considering scarce prosecutorial resources.”
“通常如果你能证明存在某种欺诈，就可以把它当一个法律问题来处理，”辩护律师、前联邦检察官艾坦·D·戈尔曼(Aitan D. Goelman)说。“但更有意思的问题是要不要这么做，要知道检控资源是有限的。”
In most instances, the companies that prosecutors are targeting employ so-called straw buyers, who are paid a few hundred dollars to show up at a dealership with a certified bank check to buy a car and then quickly turn over the vehicle.
在多数情况下，检察部门针对的企业会雇佣所谓的“代购”，付几百美元让他们去车行用保付支票买车，然后很快转手。
Mr. Schneiderman’s office is conducting an undercover investigation focusing on the activities of sales managers working at a number of luxury auto dealerships in New York and New Jersey, said the people briefed on the matter.
知情人士透露，施奈德曼的办公室正在进行一项卧底调查行动，重点是纽约州和新泽西州的几家豪华车行的销售经理的行为。
The investigation, which could lead to the filing of criminal charges, is examining whether some sales managers took kickbacks to sell luxury cars to people who they knew intended to resell them overseas.
这项调查针对的是，某些销售经理是否将豪车卖给那些自己明知会倒卖到海外的人员，以捞取回扣。调查结果可能导致刑事诉讼。
The authorities say that using straw buyers to buy cars is deceptive. The buyers typically indicate that they are buying the cars for themselves. In most cases, prosecutors also say that the companies shipping the cars overseas have created misleading export documents to disguise the fact that the cars were recently purchased. Auto insurance policies taken out for the buyers are quickly canceled once the cars are shipped.
当局表示，使用代购买车属欺诈行为。此类买家一般会表示，购车是为了自用。检察部门称，在多数案件里，将汽车运至海外的企业会提交误导性的出口文件，以掩盖车辆属新近购得的事实。买家购入的车险保单也会在车辆运走后立即被取消。
In the New Hampshire case, two California men who not only used straw buyers to buy cars destined for China but also fraudulently obtained drivers’ licenses in New Hampshire as part of their scheme pleaded guilty and were sentenced to three years of probation.
在新罕布什尔州的案件中，加利福尼亚州的两名男性不仅雇佣了代购来买下意在运往中国的车辆，还通过欺诈手段在新罕布什尔州获取了驾照，以完善骗局。两人表示认罪，被判处三年缓刑。
But in Florida, Mr. Downs is fighting back. He has filed a lawsuit in federal court in West Palm Beach, Fla., seeking a declaratory judgment that his business is lawful.
不过，唐斯正在佛罗里达州积极应战。他向该州西棕榈滩的联邦法院提起了诉讼，希望通过裁决确认自己的生意合法。
Mr. Downs filed the lawsuit before New York prosecutors froze his company’s bank account, but after Secret Service agents seized a Mercedes-Benz GL350 and a Land Rover Range Rover that two people working for him had bought in North Carolina.
在纽约州的检察部门冻结唐斯的公司银行账户之前，他就提起了这项诉讼，但此时，特勤局探员已经查扣了他的两名手下在北卡罗来纳州分别购买的一辆奔驰GL350和一辆路虎揽胜。
“I am creating jobs and income for people,” said Mr. Downs, who said he was not aware of the investigation by authorities in New York when he filed his lawsuit. “We would like this to come to a decision, because there is no specific law that says what we do is illegal. We want the acceptance or a judge to reject our business model.”
“我在为民众创造工作岗位、提供收入，”唐斯说。他还表示，在佛罗里达州提起诉讼时，自己并未察觉纽约州当局正在进行调查。“我们希望这件事能有个裁决，因为没有明确的法律条文规定，我们的行为违法。我们希望，要么获得承认，要么法官全盘否决我们的商业模式。”
A decision is still pending in Mr. Downs’s case in Florida.
唐斯在佛罗里达州提起的诉讼尚未判决。
Court filings show that Mr. Downs is on Mercedes’s prohibited auto exporter purchasing list. He says his company complies with all state and federal laws.
提交给法院的文件显示，唐斯在梅赛德斯公司的汽车出口商禁买名单上。他本人则表示，公司遵守了所有的州级与联邦法规。
A training video for prospective car buyers on the website for Mr. Downs’s company reminds recruits to be careful what they say to sales people at dealerships.
唐斯的公司在其网站上放着培训潜在代购的视频，其中提醒新员工，与车行的销售人员交谈时要小心措辞。
An introduction to one of the videos states: “The main thing to remember is that you do not want to raise any flags alerting them to the fact that you may be part of an exporting company.”
有一则视频在开头部分说道：“关键要记住，不要让他们有任何的警觉，怀疑你们可能在为出口企业工作。”
Scott Winowitz, one of the people in North Carolina who bought a car for Mr. Downs, said he was surprised when several agents from the Secret Service showed up at his home on Sept. 14 to seize the Mercedes he had just bought for $66,537, because he did not think he was doing anything wrong.
在北卡罗来纳州为唐斯代买了一辆车的斯科特·威诺维茨(Scott Winowitz)称，去年9月14日，特勤局的几名探员出现在自家门口，查扣了他刚刚以6万6537美元购买的奔驰车。此举让他相当错愕，因为他以为自己完全没有干坏事。
“They were telling me you can get arrested and go to jail. I was practically having a panic attack,” he said. “I didn’t know that any of that stuff was illegal. People do exporting and importing every single day.”
“他们告诉我，你可能会被捕坐牢。我差点吓晕了，”他说。“我不知道这种事情竟然违法。大家每天都在搞进出口。”
Mr. Downs’s company became further ensnared in the federal crackdown in November, when prosecutors in New York sought to freeze $2.38 million in a bank account listed in his company’s name. His lawyer said the company account actually held much less money.
去年11月，唐斯的公司遭受了进一步的联邦严打。纽约州的检察部门寻求冻结公司名下的一个238万美元的银行账户。唐斯的律师表示，公司账上的钱实际上比这少得多。
The New York action also seized bank accounts and 47 vehicles suspected of being linked to Efans Trading of Memphis, which had bought cars from Mr. Downs’s company.
纽约州的行动还查封了疑似与孟菲斯的伊凡斯贸易公司(Efans Trading)有关的多个银行账户，外加47辆车。伊凡斯是从唐斯的公司购买汽车的客户。
Ely Goldin, a lawyer with Fox Rothschild who represents Efans, said the government was doing the bidding of the automobile manufacturers. Disputes, he said, should be resolved through private litigation and not the threat of asset seizures or criminal prosecution.
代表伊凡斯的福罗律师事务所(Fox Rothschild)的埃利·戈尔丁(Ely Goldin)表示，政府这是在听命于汽车生产商。他还称，纠纷应当通过民事诉讼来解决，而不是用资产扣押和刑事诉讼来进行威逼。
“It is an open question who are the so-called victims and whether the purchase and sale of cars should be considered a fraudulent scheme,” Mr. Goldin said.
“谁是所谓的受害者？这样购买销售汽车是否应该被视为欺诈？这些都还是有待探讨的问题，”戈尔丁说。