Scientists say that fur seals in the Antarctic are having sex with the penguins.
科学家称，南极地区的海狗与企鹅发生了交配。
This may have been going on for some time. A South African research team has published a paper on it, “Multiple Occurrences of King Penguin Sexual Harassment by Antarctic Fur Seals.” There’s also a video featuring a rather large seal and a really unhappy looking bird.
这种行为可能已经持续了一段时间。南非的一个研究小组发表了一篇关于此事的论文，题为《帝企鹅多次遭到南极海狗性侵》(Multiple Occurrences of King Penguin Sexual Harassment by Antarctic Fur Seals)。还有视频记录了一只个头很大的海狗，与一只看起来并不开心的企鹅交配的过程。
“This may be an emergent behavior,” the team wrote ominously.
该研究小组以不祥的口气写道，“这可能是一种正在兴起的行为。”
I am bringing you this disturbing news because it may make you feel better about politics, Congress, and the general state of the nation. True, virtually everything that’s happened since the election suggests things are going to get worse rather than better. But hey, at least we’re not being governed by seals.
我之所以提起这条令人不安的新闻，是因为它会让你觉得政治、国会，以及这个国家的整体状态没那么糟糕。诚然，选举以来发生的几乎所有事情都说明，情况在进一步恶化，而不是改善。但至少治理国家的不是那些海狗。
All this brings us to Washington, where congressional leaders from both parties have been making copious promises about seeking common ground. Generally, the specifics end with some vague reference to doing “tax reform.”
这一切让我们想到了华盛顿。国会两党领袖在华盛顿做出了大量的承诺，宣称要寻求共同点。但通常，最后的具体动作只是笼统地谈一谈“税制改革”。
“Reagan and Tip O’Neill saved Social Security for a generation, did the last comprehensive tax reform. We need to do that again,” said Mitch McConnell, the next Senate majority leader, in his paean to bipartisan cooperation.
下一届参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)热情赞颂两党合作。他说，“里根(Reagan)和蒂普·奥尼尔(Tip O'Neill)保全了社会保障体系，使一代人受益，并开展了最近一次的全面税制改革。我们需要再做一次。”
Reagan and Tip O’Neill agreed to the largest peacetime tax increase in American history. Do you think that’s what McConnell has in mind? Otherwise, one is forced to consider the possibility that he is making things up. The Democrats and Republicans are definitely in accord about the need for tax reform. However, given the fact that they disagree completely about what that reform should entail, chances of progress do not seem great.
里根和蒂普·奥尼尔同意实行美国和平时期里，有史以来规模最大的增税计划。你觉得麦康奈尔脑子里想的是这个吗？如果不是，大家就必须思考一下，他是不是在瞎编。民主党人和共和党人看法一致，都认为需要进行税制改革。然而，鉴于他们在改革应该包含哪些举措的问题上意见相左，取得进展的可能性看起来不大。
But maybe wishing can make it so. Even as young fur seals are apparently compensating for the shortage of mating partners by looking at a king penguin and imagining that it is a female seal.
但或许凭借空想，就能取得进展。就像年轻的海狗显然是为了填补交配对象的短缺，就盯着一只帝企鹅，把它当成雌海狗一样。
On Thursday, President Obama is expected to announce he’s protecting millions of undocumented immigrants from deportation through use of his executive power. And that will probably be the end of the talk of amity. The Republicans feel that if Obama usurps the congressional prerogative to make immigration policy, he will have poisoned the well, waved the red flag and generally ruined all the possibility for a new era of cooperation. They were saying that all this week, as they worked feverishly to pass a bill that would override the executive branch’s power to grant permits for projects that cross the national border.
奥巴马总统周四宣布，他将通过行使行政权力，保障数百万无证件移民免遭驱逐。两党之间恐怕不会再谈什么友好了。共和党人认为，如果奥巴马要篡夺国会职权，制定移民政策，他肯定会给别人扣帽子、危言耸听，然后破坏所有合作的可能性。共和党本周一直在这样宣扬，他们正极力推动一项议案，该议案会超越行政部门的权力，批准开展跨越边境的项目。
That would be the Keystone pipeline bill. It failed when Senate supporters fell one vote short of the 60 needed to stop a Democratic filibuster. This happened on the same day that a bill to get the federal government out of the business of collecting citizens’ phone records died in a Republican filibuster.
这里指的是关于Keystone输油管道的议案。如果要阻止民主党使用拖延战术，参议院的支持者需要60张投票；因为缺少一票，民主党动用拖延战术，所以议案未能通过。同一天，一份禁止联邦政府收集公民电话记录的议案，也因为共和党使出拖延战术而未获通过。
Yes, people, both parties did it. However, since the Republicans are the ones promising to usher in a new order, we are going to pay special attention to them.
是的各位，两党都是这么干的。不过，既然承诺要带来新秩序的是共和党，我们就要向他们给予特别关注。
“I thought we had a new day coming, when McConnell said he wanted to go back to the regular order of having votes, and amendments and all,” said Patrick Leahy, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. This was in a phone interview, so it was hard to determine conclusively whether Leahy was being somewhat wry. “He said the next few weeks would set a positive tone for Congress.”
“当麦康奈尔说他想回到有投票、修正案等等的常规秩序时，我认为我们迎来了新的一天，”参议院司法委员会(Judiciary Committee)主席帕特里克·莱希(Patrick Leahy)说。这个说法来自电话采访，所以很难完全确定莱希是否在说反话。“他说，未来几周将会为国会设定一个积极的基调。”
Leahy’s bill, the USA Freedom Act, was a response to the Edward Snowden leaks, particularly the revelation that the federal government is stockpiling everybody’s phone records. It was the bipartisan product of six public hearings and painful negotiations that attracted the support of über-conservative senators like Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah. One of its major features was a requirement that the call records stay with the phone companies. The National Security Agency could retrieve them, but it would have to be specific about whose calls were being traced and why they were needed.
莱希的议案《美国自由法案》(USA Freedom Act)是对爱德华·斯诺登(Edward Snowden)泄密事件，尤其是他揭露联邦政府正在储存每个人的电话记录一事的回应。这项法案是两党共同努力的结果，经过六次公开听证会和艰苦的谈判，赢得了德克萨斯州的特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和犹他州的迈克·李(Mike Lee)等超级保守派参议员的支持。该法案的一项主要内容是，要求电话记录保存在电信公司。国家安全局(National Security Agency)有权调阅，但必须说明要追踪谁的电话，以及为何需要这些信息。
McConnell led the battle to keep the status quo. (“This is the worst possible time to be tying our hands behind our backs.”) During the debate, after the minority leader finished his remarks, Leahy asked if he would respond to a few questions, but McConnell was already on his way out of the room. “He said: ‘I’m sorry but I don’t have time.’ In 40 years I’d never seen anybody do that,” Leahy said.
麦康奈尔领导了保持现状的战斗。（“现在这个时候，最不应该自己把自己的双手绑在背后。”）辩论过程，当麦康奈尔发言完毕后，莱希问他是否可以回答几个问题，但是麦康奈尔已经要走出房间了。莱希透露，“他说：‘抱歉，我没时间。’40年来，我从未见过谁这样做。”