WASHINGTON — The nation’s top spymaster said on Tuesday that the White House had long been aware in general terms of the National Security Agency’s overseas eavesdropping, stoutly defending the agency’s intelligence-gathering methods and suggesting possible divisions within the Obama administration.
华盛顿——美国最高情报官员周二表示，长期以来，白宫一直大体知晓国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）在海外的窃听活动。他的言论为该机构的情报收集方式提供了有力辩护，也表明奥巴马政府内部可能存在分歧。
The official, James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, testified before the House Intelligence Committee that the N.S.A. had kept senior officials in the National Security Council informed of surveillance it was conducting in foreign countries. He did not specifically say whether President Obama was told of these spying efforts, but he appeared to challenge assertions in recent days that the White House had been in the dark about some of the agency’s practices.
这名官员是国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)。他在众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)作证时说，NSA一直在向国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的高级官员汇报自己在他国进行的监视活动。他没有明确说明奥巴马总统是否知晓这些监视活动，但却似乎挑战了最近几天的一些说法。这些说法称，关于NSA的一些做法，白宫一直蒙在鼓里。
Mr. Clapper and the agency’s director, Gen. Keith Alexander, vigorously rejected suggestions that the agency was a rogue institution, trawling for information on ordinary citizens and leaders of America’s closest allies, without the knowledge of its Washington overseers.
克拉珀和NSA局长基思·B·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith B. Alexander)均极力否认相关看法，亦即NSA是一个流氓机构，瞒着华盛顿的监管机构搜集美国最亲密盟国的普通民众和领导人的信息。
Their testimony came amid mounting questions about how the N.S.A. collects information overseas, with Republicans and Democrats calling for a congressional review, lawmakers introducing a bill that would curb its activities, and Mr. Obama poised to impose his own constraints, particularly on monitoring the leaders of friendly nations. At the same time, current and former American intelligence officials say there is a growing sense of anger with the White House for what they see as attempts by the administration to pin the blame for the controversy squarely on them.
他们发表上述证词之际，NSA在海外收集信息的方式正在引发越来越多的质疑。共和党人和民主党人都呼吁国会进行审查，一些议员提出了一项将限制NSA活动的法案，奥巴马也准备采取一些约束措施，矛头尤其指向监视友好国家领导人的做法。与此同时，一些现任或前任美国情报官员表示，他们对白宫的愤怒与日俱增，因为他们认为，奥巴马政府试图把这一争议的罪责推到他们头上。
General Alexander said news media reports that the N.S.A. had vacuumed up tens of millions of telephone calls in France, Spain and Italy were “completely false.” That data, he said, is at least partly collected by the intelligence services of those countries and provided to the N.S.A.
亚历山大上将表示，新闻媒体称NSA在法国、西班牙和意大利窃听了几千万个电话通话，这些报道“纯属无稽之谈”。他说，那些数据当中，至少有一部分是那些国家的情报机构自己收集并提供给NSA的。
Still, both he and Mr. Clapper said that spying on foreign leaders — even those of allies — was a basic tenet of intelligence tradecraft and had gone on for decades. European countries, Mr. Clapper said, routinely seek to listen in on the conversations of American leaders.
但他和克拉珀都表示，监视外国领导人，哪怕是盟国领导人，是情报行当的基本原则，已经持续了几十年。克拉珀说，欧洲国家也时常试图窃听美国领导人的谈话。
“Some of this reminds me of the classic movie ‘Casablanca’ — ‘My God, there’s gambling going on here,’ ” Mr. Clapper said, twisting the line from the movie uttered by a corrupt French official who feigns outrage at the very activity in which he avidly partakes.
“其中一些说法让我想起了经典电影《卡萨布兰卡》(Casablanca)——‘天哪，你这里居然有赌场，’”克拉珀说。他这句话改编自一名法国贪官在电影中的台词，该官员对自己热情参与的活动佯装愤怒。
Asked whether the White House knows about the N.S.A.’s intelligence-gathering, including on foreign leaders, Mr. Clapper said, “They can and do.” But, he added, “I have to say that that does not extend down to the level of detail. We’re talking about a huge enterprise here, with thousands and thousands of individual requirements.”
有人问及白宫是否知晓NSA的情报收集活动，包括针对外国领导人的情报收集活动，克拉珀回答说，“他们有能力知道，而且确实知道。”但他补充说，“我必须得说，他们知道的事情不会具体到细节。我们说的是一件庞大的工作，有成千上万个单独的要求。”
The White House has faced criticism for the N.S.A.’s surveillance practices since the first revelations by a former agency contractor, Edward J. Snowden, in June. But in recent weeks it has struggled to quell a new diplomatic storm over reports that the agency monitored the cellphone of Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany for more than a decade. White House officials said the president did not know of that surveillance, but that he has told Ms. Merkel that the United States is not monitoring her phone now and would not in the future.
自NSA前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)6月的最初几次泄密以来，白宫一直因NSA的监视活动备受指责。但最近几周，它不得不竭力平息新闻报道引发的一场新的外交风暴。相关报道称，NSA监听德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的手机长达十多年。白宫官员称，奥巴马总统不知道此事，但他已告诉默克尔，美国现在没有，将来也不会监听她的电话。
Several current and former American officials said that presidents and their senior national security advisers have long known about which foreign leaders the United States spied on.
几名现任或前任美国官员表示，长期以来，各位总统及其高级国家安全顾问都知道美国监视的是哪些外国领导人。
“It would be unusual for the White House senior staff not to know the exact source and method of collection,” said Michael Allen, a National Security Council official in the George W. Bush administration and a former staff director for the House Intelligence Committee. “That information helps a policy maker assess the reliability of the intelligence.”
“要说白宫的高级工作人员不知道准确的情报来源和获取方式，情况就不正常了，”乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府时期的国家安全委员会官员、众议院情报委员会前办公室主任迈克尔·艾伦(Michael Allen)说，“那些信息有助于政策制定者判断情报的可信度。”
Mr. Allen, the author of book about intelligence reform called “Blinking Red,” said this information often comes to the president during preparation for phone calls or meetings with the foreign leaders.
艾伦说，在总统为致电或会见外国领导人做准备的阶段，这些信息往往会被送到总统手中。艾伦写过一本书，主题是名为“闪光红”(Blinking Red)的情报改革。
The White House declined to discuss intelligence policies, pending the completion of a review of intelligence-gathering practices that will be completed in December. But a senior administration official noted that the vast majority of intelligence that made it into Mr. Obama’s daily intelligence briefings focused on potential threats, from Al Qaeda plots to Iran’s nuclear program.
在情报收集行动审查于12月完成之前，白宫拒绝讨论情报政策。不过，一名政府高官指出，在奥巴马收到的每日情报简报中，绝大部分情报的重点都是从基地组织(Al Qaeda)阴谋到伊朗核计划的各种潜在威胁。
“These are front-burner, first-tier issues,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter. “He’s not getting many briefings on intelligence about Germany.”
这名官员说，“这些都是火烧眉毛的首要问题。他不会收到多少和德国情报相关的简报。”由于此事的敏感性，他要求匿名发言。
Another senior administration official said that Mr. Obama did not generally rely on intelligence reports to prepare for meetings or phone calls with Ms. Merkel.
另一名政府高官说，为与默克尔的会晤或通话做准备的时候，奥巴马通常不会依赖情报报告。
“He knows her well, he speaks with her regularly, and our governments work together every day on a wide range of issues,” said this official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity because of the diplomatic concerns. “Because we talk so frequently, we know where they stand and they know where we stand on most issues.”
这名官员说，“他非常了解默克尔，定期和默克尔交谈，两国政府每天都在一同处理多种多样的问题。由于交流频繁，在大多数问题上，双方都了解彼此的立场。”出于外交顾虑，这名官员也要求匿名发言。
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee and one of the fiercest defenders of American surveillance operations, said Monday that she did “not believe the United States should be collecting phone calls or emails of friendly presidents and prime ministers.” Ms. Feinstein said her committee would be conducting a “major review” of the intelligence programs.
加利福尼亚州参议员、参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)女主席黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)是美国监控行动最狂热的捍卫者之一，她于周一表示，她“不相信美国会收集友好国家的总统和总理的电话或电子邮件信息”。她说，她掌舵的委员会将会对各种情报项目实施一项“重要的评估”。
Another strong defender of the N.S.A., Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio, agreed that “there needs to be review, there ought to be review, and it ought to be thorough,” he said. “We’ve got obligations to the American people to keep them safe. We’ve got obligations to our allies around the world.”
另一名NSA的强力捍卫者、来自俄亥俄州的众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)也认为，“有必要进行评估，理应进行评估，评估还应该彻底。我们有责任保障美国人民的安全，有责任保障全球盟友的安全。”
“But having said that, we’ve got to find the right balance here,” he added. “We’re imbalanced as we stand here.”
他还说，“话虽如此，我们必须找到一个合适的平衡点。我们目前所处的位置是不平衡的。”
On Tuesday, House Democrats and Republicans introduced a bill that would curb some of the N.S.A.’s practices, including the bulk collection of telephone data inside the United States and so-called reverse targeting, in which agencies eavesdrop on non-Americans to collect data on communications to or from an American citizen.
周二，众议院民主党人和共和党人推出了一项提案，该提案将限制NSA的某些行动，包括NSA在美国境内大规模收集通话数据的行动以及所谓的反向定位行动，后者指的是情报机构对非美国人实施窃听，以收集美国公民发送或接收的通讯数据。
“The picture drawn is one of a surveillance system run amok,” said Representative John Conyers, Democrat of Michigan, a sponsor of the bill. “Our intelligence community has operated without proper congressional oversight or regard for Americans’ privacy and civil liberties.”
提案的支持者、密歇根州民主党众议员约翰·科尼尔斯(John Conyers)说，“眼下的情形是，监控系统已经失控。我们情报机构的行动没有受到国会的合理监控，也没有顾及美国人的隐私和公民权利。”
Even on the House Intelligence Committee, members sparred over what they had been told by the intelligence agencies about eavesdropping on foreign leaders. Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California, a senior member of the committee, said that he had first learned about the practice after the recent news media reports.
即使是在众议院情报委员会(House Intelligence Committee)内部，众人也因情报机构就窃听外国领导人行动提交的证词产生了争执。委员会资深成员、加利福尼亚州民主党众议员亚当·席夫(Adam Schiff)说，看了近日的媒体报道，他才头一次听说了这种做法。
“Would you consider that a wiretap of a leader of an allied country would be a significant intelligence activity requiring a report to the intelligence committees?” Mr. Schiff asked Mr. Clapper.
席夫问克拉珀，“你难道不觉得，窃听盟国领导人是一项重大的情报活动，需要向情报委员会汇报吗？”
Mr. Clapper said the agencies had “lived up to the letter and spirit of that requirement.”
克拉珀说，NSA“的行动符合相关规定的字面要求，也符合规定宗旨。”
Mr. Schiff disagreed, saying that the agencies had much work to do “to make sure we’re getting the information we need.” He said that disclosures about such eavesdropping could create significant “blowback.”
席夫不同意他的说法，称NSA还有更多工作要做，“以便确保我们获得所需的信息”。他说，类似窃听行动的披露，可能会导致重大的“反作用”。
Mr. Rogers disputed Mr. Schiff’s claim, saying that Mr. Schiff needed to take the time to educate himself about what the committee had been briefed on.
罗杰斯(Rogers)驳斥了席夫的观点，并且表示，席夫应该花点儿时间去了解，委员会收到了哪些汇报。
“To make the case that somehow we are in the dark is mystifying to me,” Mr. Rogers said. “It is disingenuous to imply that this committee did not have a full and complete understanding of activities of the intelligence community as was directed under the national intelligence priority framework to include sources and methods.”
罗杰斯说，“要说我们莫名其妙地蒙在了鼓里，我倒觉得难以理解。暗示情报委员会对情报领域的行动缺乏全面彻底的了解，这样的说法是不实之词，情报行动遵循的是国家情报优先框架的指导，它要求我们动用各种资源和方法收集情报。”