VIENNA — With a deadline for an agreement to curb Iran’s nuclear program just a day away, American officials finally acknowledged Sunday that the two sides would not reach a deal by Monday’s deadline but would probably extend the talks a second time to explore a series of possible solutions.
维也纳——周日，距离达成一份遏制伊朗核计划的协议的最后期限还有一天，美国官员终于承认，双方在期限之前将无法达成协议，但可能会再次延长谈判期，从而探索一系列可能的解决方案。
It was unclear how long the talks would be prolonged or what additional sanctions relief Iran might receive as negotiators wrestled with differences such as how much nuclear fuel Iran could produce, how long the accord would last and how intrusive inspections would be, among other issues.
目前尚不清楚谈判期会延长多久，也不清楚伊朗还会被免除哪些制裁，因为谈判官员在一些问题上存在分歧，比如，伊朗可以生产多少核燃料，协议的期限是多久，以及检查可以深入到什么程度等。
Secretary of State John Kerry raised the idea of extending the talks in a meeting Sunday night with Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister. It was not clear whether a document detailing new points of convergence would be issued Monday in return for an extension in the talks. 
在周日夜里与伊朗外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)的会面中，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)提出了延长谈判期的想法。目前尚不清楚周一是否会公布一份详细记录新共识要点的文件，从而达到延长谈判期的目的。
“Our focus remains on taking steps forward toward an agreement, but it’s only natural that just over 24 hours from the deadline, we are discussing a range of options,” said a senior State Department official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. “An extension is one of those options. It should come as no surprise that we are also engaged in a discussion of the options with the Iranians.”
“我们的重点仍然是朝着达成协议的目标采取行动，不过，在截止日期前的24小时里讨论各种可能性，也是十分正常的，”国务院的一名高级官员说。由于涉及内部审议，他要求在本文中不具名。“延长谈判期是选项之一。和伊朗人就这个选项展开讨论，不应该算意外。”
Earlier on Sunday, President Obama said that the gaps in the negotiations were still “significant.”
周日早些时候，奥巴马总统称，谈判中仍然存在“重大”分歧。
Mr. Obama appeared to rule out giving in to one of Iran’s central demands: that as part of any final deal, the United States and its partners lift, quickly and permanently, all the nuclear-related sanctions against Iran. “I think Iran would love to see the sanctions end immediately, and then to still have some avenues that might not be completely closed, and we can’t do that,” Mr. Obama said, referring to avenues for producing a nuclear weapon.
奥巴马似乎笃定不会屈服于伊朗的一个核心要求：作为任何最终协议的一部分，美国及其伙伴必须迅速和永久性地取消对伊朗的所有核相关制裁。“我认为伊朗希望制裁立即结束，然后继续保留一些可能不会彻底关闭的设施，我们不能这么做，”奥巴马说。他指的是生产核武器的设施。
But he also held out hope that an agreement, if it could be struck, would change the nature of the relationship with Iran for the first time in more than three decades.
不过，奥巴马还是提到了这样的希望：如果协议能够达成，将是30多年以来与伊朗关系首次产生质的变化。
“What a deal would do,” he said, “is take a big piece of business off the table and perhaps begin a long process in which the relationship not just between Iran and us but the relationship between Iran and the world, and the region, begins to change,” Mr. Obama said Sunday in an interview on ABC.
“如果达成协议，”他说，“将会省去大量谈判工作，或许还能开启一个长期的过程，在这一过程中，不光是伊朗和我们的关系将开始改变，伊朗和世界、和该地区的关系都是如此，”奥巴马周日接受ABC采访时说。
The decision of when and under what conditions to agree to a negotiating extension has been a highly delicate one for the Obama administration. It would like to lock in many areas of agreement that negotiators for the two sides have spent months drafting and which are now waiting for political decisions from Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and Mr. Obama.
对于奥巴马政府来说，在何时以及何种条件下同意延长谈判期，一直是一个棘手的问题。它将会涉及双方谈判官员几个月来起草的许多协议的领域，而这些协议正在等待伊朗最高领导人阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)和奥巴马的政治决定。
But given the failure to close the wide gap that remains, neither leader seems inclined to end the negotiations — or to declare failure. The Iranians have reportedly declined to agree to dismantle a significant number of their centrifuges — the machines that enrich uranium at supersonic speed — just as Mr. Obama has refused to end the sanctions by a specific date, until he can measure Iran’s compliance.
但考虑到未能弥合的巨大分歧依然存在，双方领导人似乎都不打算结束谈判，或承认失败。据报道，伊朗不同意拆除数量可观的离心机——以超音速进行铀浓缩的机器——奥巴马也拒绝在某个特定日期前结束制裁，直到他能衡量伊朗遵守协议的情况。
And other issues are in dispute. One is how many years an agreement would last before Iran would be free, like any other signer of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, to develop as large a civilian nuclear infrastructure as it would like. Another is what kind of freedom inspectors would have to visit any location where they suspect nuclear-related work might be underway.
其他问题也存在争议。其中一个问题是，协议要持续多少年，伊朗才能和《核不扩散条约》(Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty)的其他缔约国一样，自由发展民用核设施且自己制定相关规模。另一个存在争议的问题是，检查人员应享有何种自由，以便检查被疑可能正在进行核相关作业的场所。
For weeks, the American team has sought to keep the pressure on the Iranians to make hard decisions in the talks by insisting that an extension was not on the table. “We are not talking about an extension,” Mr. Kerry insisted as recently as Thursday. “We are driving towards what we believe is the outline of an agreement that we think we can have.”
数周来，美方谈判小组坚称不可能延长谈判期限，试图以此向伊朗持续施压，迫使其在谈判中做出艰难的决定。就在周四，克里还坚持说，“我们没在讨论延期。我认为，我们正在朝着协议框架的方向前进。我们认为能达成协议。”
Republican and even some Democratic lawmakers have warned that they would press for additional sanctions if the American negotiators did not emerge from the latest round of talks with provisions that toughened the temporary agreement. That agreement freezes much of Iran’s nuclear program and is set to expire Monday evening.
共和党乃至部分民主党议员警告称，如果美方谈判人员未能在最新一轮谈判中达成加强临时协议的条款，他们将要求增加制裁。临时协议冻结了伊朗核计划的相当一部分，将于周一傍晚到期。
The Obama administration already agreed to one extension in July, which it justified on the grounds that sufficient progress had been made to warrant continuing the talks until Nov. 24, the anniversary of an agreement for a temporary accord that froze some of Iran’s advances and required Iran to dilute a stockpile of fuel that the West feared could quickly be converted to weapons use.
7月，奥巴马政府同意延长谈判期限，依据是已取得的进展足以保证谈判持续至11月24日。这一最后期限是一项临时协议满一周年的日子。该协议冻结了伊朗的部分进展，并要求伊朗稀释一批库存燃料。西方担心这些燃料很快便会被用于制造武器。
A breakdown in talks, American and Iranian officials seem to agree, is in neither side’s interest.
美伊两国的官员似乎一致认为，谈判破裂对双方都不利。