BERLIN — The diplomatic fallout from the documents harvested by the former N.S.A. contractor Edward J. Snowden intensified on Wednesday, with one of the United States’ closest allies, Germany, announcing that its leader had angrily called President Obama seeking reassurance that her cellphone was not the target of an American intelligence tap.
柏林——美国国家安全局(NSA)前承包商雇员爱德华·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)掌握的文件已经导致了一些外交后果，本周三情况继续恶化，这次是美国最亲密的盟友之一德国。该国宣布，愤怒的领导人已经打电话给奥巴马总统，要求确认她的手机没有遭到美国情报机构的监控。
Washington hastily pledged that Chancellor Angela Merkel, leader of Europe’s most powerful economy, was not the target of current surveillance and would not be in the future, while conspicuously saying nothing about the past. After a similar furor with France, the call was the second time in 48 hours that the president found himself on the phone with a close European ally to argue that the unceasing revelations of invasive American intelligence gathering should not undermine decades of hard-won trans-Atlantic trust.
华盛顿急忙保证，欧洲最强大经济体的领导人、德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)不是他们目前监视的目标，未来也不会是，但显然没有提到过去是不是。这是奥巴马在48小时内第二次接到关系密切的欧洲盟友的电话，此前法国人已经发出过类似的怒吼。他在通话中表示，美国情报机构入侵他国搜集资料这件事的不断曝光，不应该破坏几十年来大西洋两岸来之不易的信任。
Both episodes illustrated the diplomatic challenge to the United States posed by the cache of documents that Mr. Snowden handed to the journalist Glenn Greenwald. Last week, Mr. Greenwald concluded a deal with the eBay founder Pierre Omidyar to build a new media platform that aims in part to publicize other revelations from the data Mr. Greenwald now possesses.
这两起事件都表明了斯诺登交给记者格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)的文件给美国带来的外交挑战。上周，格林沃尔德和eBay创始人皮埃尔·奥米迪亚(Pierre Omidyar)签订了一个建立新媒体平台的协议，其部分目的在于利用格林沃尔德手里掌握的数据，曝光其他真相。
The damage to core American relationships continues to mount. Last month, President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil postponed a state visit to the United States after Brazilian news media reports — fed by material from Mr. Greenwald — that the National Security Agency had intercepted messages from Ms. Rousseff, her aides and the state oil company, Petrobras. Last weekend, the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel, which has said it has a stack of Snowden documents, suggested that United States intelligence had gained access to communications to and from President Felipe Calderón of Mexico when he was still in office.
美国的核心外交关系继续遭受损害。上个月，巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)推迟了对美国的国事访问，因为巴西新闻媒体以格林沃尔德的资料为根据，称NSA截获过罗塞夫、她的助手，以及巴西国家石油公司(Petrobras)的讯息。上周末，德国新闻杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)称，它现在掌握的一些斯诺登文件表明，美国情报部门曾在墨西哥前总统费利佩·卡尔德龙(Felipe Calderón)在任时窃取过他的往来通讯。
Secretary of State John F. Kerry had barely landed in France on Monday when the newspaper Le Monde disclosed what it said was the mass surveillance of French citizens, as well as spying on French diplomats. Furious, the French summoned the United States ambassador, Charles H. Rivkin, and President François Hollande expressed “extreme reprobation” for the reported collection of 70 million phone calls in 30 days late last year and into January.
本周一，就在美国国务卿约翰·F·克里(John F. Kerry)即将抵达法国之际，该国《世界报》(Le Monde)报道称，美国对法国公民进行了大规模监视，法国外交官也遭受窥探。愤怒的法国人召见了美国驻法大使查尔斯·H·里夫金(Charles H. Rivkin)，对于报道中所说的，从去年年底到今年1月的30天中，美国收集了法国7000万份通话情况，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)表示了“极度严厉的谴责”。
In a statement published on the Web site of the national intelligence office on Wednesday, James R. Clapper, the director, disputed some aspects of Le Monde’s reporting, calling it misleading and inaccurate in unspecified ways.
本周三，在美国情报办公室网站的一份声明中，国家情报总监詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper)对《世界报》这篇报告的某些方面提出了异议，笼统地称它不准确，具有误导性。
He did not address another report by Le Monde that monitoring by the United States had extended to “French diplomatic interests” at the United Nations and in Washington. Information garnered by the N.S.A. played a significant part in a United Nations vote on June 9, 2010, in favor of sanctions against Iran, Le Monde said.
他没有提到《世界报》的另一篇报道。那篇报道称，美国的监视范围已经扩大到了法国在联合国和华盛顿的“外交利益”上。《世界报》说，在联合国2010年6月9日支持对伊朗实施制裁的投票中，NSA搜集的信息发挥了重大作用。
Two senior administration officials — from the State Department and the National Security Council — had arrived in Berlin only hours before the German government disclosed on Wednesday that it had received unspecified information that Ms. Merkel’s cellphone was under surveillance.
两名分别来自美国国务院和国家安全委员会(National Security Council )的奥巴马政府高级官员周三抵达柏林访问。仅仅几个小时后，德国政府披露，它收到未加详细说明的信息，称默克尔的手机被监听。
If confirmed, that is “completely unacceptable,” said her spokesman, Steffen Seibert. The accusations followed Der Spiegel’s disclosures in June of widespread American surveillance of German communications, which struck an especially unsettling chord in a country scarred by the surveillance undertaken by Nazi and Communist governments in its past.
默克尔的发言人斯特芬·塞伯特(Steffen Seibert)表示，如果证明属实，此举“完全不可接受”。在这轮指责之前，《明镜》周刊曾于今年6月披露美国在大规模监听德国的通讯。这在德国激起了一种极为不安的反应，因为纳粹和共产党政府过去的监听活动给这个国家留下了创伤。
Mr. Seibert quoted the chancellor, who was raised in Communist East Germany, as telling Mr. Obama that “between close friends and partners, which the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States of America have been for decades, there should be no such surveillance of the communications of a head of government.”
默克尔本人在共产主义的东德长大。塞伯特援引了她对奥巴马说的原话，“作为亲密的盟友和伙伴，而且德意志联邦共和国与美利坚合众国的这种关系已经延续了几十年，不应当对政府首脑的通讯进行这样的监听。”
“That would be a grave breach of trust,” Mr. Seibert quoted her as saying. “Such practices must cease immediately.”
“这将是对信任的极大破坏，”塞伯特援引默克尔的说法称，“此类行为必须立即终止。”
The government statement did not disclose the source or nature of its suspicions. But Der Spiegel said on its Web site that Ms. Merkel acted after it submitted a reporting inquiry to the government. “Apparently, after an examination by the Federal Intelligence Service and the Federal Office for Security in Information Technology, the government found sufficient plausible grounds to confront the U.S. government,” Der Spiegel wrote.
德国政府的声明没有透露这种怀疑的消息源或其性质。不过，《明镜》周刊在其网站中称，该杂志向政府提交了报道问询后，默克尔采取了行动。“显然，联邦情报局(Federal Intelligence Service)与联邦信息技术安全局(Federal Office for Security in Information Technology)找到了足够的合理依据来与美国政府对质，”《明镜》写道。
ARD, Germany’s premier state television channel, said without naming its sources that the supposed monitoring had targeted Ms. Merkel’s official cellphone, not her private one.
德国著名的公共电视频道ARD援引匿名消息称，所谓的监听针对的是默克尔的官方手机，而不是她的私人手机。
About an hour after the news broke in Berlin, Jay Carney, the White House spokesman, appeared before news media in Washington, reporting the Obama-Merkel phone call and saying that “the president assured the chancellor that the United States is not monitoring, and will not monitor, the communications of the chancellor.”
消息在柏林曝光一小时后，身处华盛顿的白宫发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)出现在新闻媒体面前，通报奥巴马和默克尔的电话交流，“总统向默克尔总理保证，美国目前没有、将来也不会监听她的通讯。”
Mr. Obama pledged, as he had to Mr. Hollande, and to Mexico and Brazil, that intelligence operations were under scrutiny and that he was aware of the need to balance security against privacy.
奥巴马承诺，情报工作正接受严格审查，而且他明白，有必要在安全与隐私之间寻求平衡。这与他向奥朗德、墨西哥及巴西的承诺一致。
The first disclosures from Der Spiegel in June almost soured the long-planned meeting between Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel in her capital, which the president visited as a candidate in 2008, delivering a speech before an estimated 200,000 people.
《明镜》周刊今年6月的首次披露，令奥巴马和默克尔在柏林的那场酝酿多时的会晤差点不欢而散。2008年，奥巴马还是总统候选人的时候曾到访柏林，在大约20万人面前发表了讲话。
Last June, there were far fewer, carefully screened and invited Germans and Americans on hand to hear Mr. Obama at the Brandenburg Gate, the symbol of Berlin’s unity and freedom since the Berlin Wall fell in 1989.
而今年6月到场倾听奥巴马在勃兰登堡门演讲的人数大幅减少，均为受到邀请并经过严格审查的德国人和美国人。1989年柏林墙倒塌之后，勃兰登堡门成为德国统一与自由的象征。
Shortly beforehand, Mr. Obama and Ms. Merkel stood side by side in her chancellery, fielding questions about American surveillance of foreigners’ phone and e-mail traffic. Pressed personally by Ms. Merkel, the president said that terrorist threats in Germany were among those foiled by intelligence operations around the world, and Ms. Merkel concurred.
演讲前不久，奥巴马和默克尔在总理官邸并肩站立，回答关于美国对外国人电话和电子邮件通讯进行监控的问题。在默克尔本人的亲自催促下，奥巴马表示，全球情报工作所挫败的恐怖主义威胁中，也包括针对德国的威胁，而默克尔对此表示同意。