WASHINGTON — A Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 with 298 people aboard was shot down over eastern Ukraine on Thursday by what Ukrainian and American officials described as a Russian-made antiaircraft missile, American officials have confirmed. The plane was traveling at about 30,000 feet, according to tracking information from a military spy satellite. The satellite was unable to detect where exactly the missile was fired.
华盛顿——美国官员证实，周四，马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)一架载有298人的波音777飞机在乌克兰东部上空被击落。乌克兰和美国官员称那是一枚俄制地对空导弹。一颗军事间谍卫星的跟踪信息显示，飞机当时的飞行高度约为3万英尺（约合9100米）。该卫星无法确定导弹具体是从哪里发射的。
Ukraine accused the separatists of carrying out what it called a terrorist attack. American intelligence and military officials said the plane had been destroyed by a Russian SA-series missile, based on surveillance satellite data that showed the final trajectory and impact of the missile but not its point of origin.
乌克兰方面谴责分裂势力制造了这起空难，称这是恐怖袭击。美国情报和军事官员根据卫星数据判断，飞机是被俄SA系列导弹击中的。卫星记录了导弹最后的轨迹和命中时的情况。
Military and intelligence analysts are using mathematical formulas, high-speed computers and other sensors to try to pin down the missile’s point of origin. Other analysts will work with the Ukrainian authorities to recover and analyze pieces of the missile and the aircraft to help determine what kind of missile was fired, the officials said.
军方和情报部门的分析人士正在利用数学公式、高速计算机和其他一些传感器，尝试确定导弹的发射点。相关官员称，还有一些分析人士将与乌克兰当局合作，找回并分析导弹和飞机的碎片，以帮助确定发射的是何种导弹。
There were strong indications that those responsible may have errantly downed what they had thought was a military aircraft only to discover, to their shock, that they had struck a civilian airliner. Everyone aboard was killed, their corpses littered among wreckage that smoldered late into the summer night.
有强烈迹象显示凶手可能是错误地击落了被他们认为是军事目标的飞机，结果却震惊地发现他们打下了一架民航客机。机上所有人员全部遇难，尸体散落在飞机残骸四周，现场浓烟升腾直至入夜。
The plane — Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia — crashed and burned in an eastern Ukraine wheat field near the Russian border, in an area roiled by fighting between pro-Russian separatists and Ukrainian forces. 
从阿姆斯特丹飞往马来西亚吉隆坡的马航17航班，在乌克兰东部靠近俄罗斯边境的一片麦田里坠毁，该地区因亲俄罗斯的分裂分子和乌克兰部队之间的战争而动荡不安。
The furiously unfolding investigation centered on Ukrainian separatists or Russian troops as the missile operators. Ukraine authorities said they have intercepted communications that indicate separatist involvement. But the reason for the attack — whether it was a deliberate strike or a tragic accident — was unknown.
相关调查迅速展开，其核心问题是，操作导弹的是乌克兰分裂分子还是俄罗斯军队。乌克兰当局称他们截获的通讯显示，分裂分子参与了此事。但究竟是蓄意袭击还是一个悲惨的意外尚不得而知。
“What we still don’t know is what were they thinking,” one official said. “This is truly a grave situation,” said Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. of the United States, speaking in Detroit. “It’s important we get to the bottom of this sooner than later because of the possible repercussions that can flow beyond from this, beyond the tragic loss of life.” Ukraine’s president, Petro O. Poroshenko, called for an immediate investigation and asked the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, to send experts to assist. “I would like to note that we are calling this not an incident, not a catastrophe, but a terrorist act,” Mr. Poroshenko said.
“我们至今仍不清楚的是他们在想什么，”一名官员称。“眼下的局面极为严峻，”美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在底特律发表讲话时说。“尽快彻查此事很重要，因为它的可能后果会超越这件事本身，超越不幸逝去的生命。”乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)呼吁立即进行调查，并请求荷兰首相马克·吕特(Mark Rutte)派专家前去协助。“我想指出的是，我们认为这不是一起事故，不是一场灾难，而是一次恐怖主义行动，”波罗申科说。
Malaysia’s prime minister, Najib Razak, said, “If it transpires that the plane was, indeed, shot down, we insist that the perpetrators must be brought to justice.” Forensics evidence from the site, as well as the satellite data and any intercepted communications, would help analysts and investigators determine who fired the lethal missile.
马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)表示，“如果发现飞机的确是被击落的，我们坚决要求必须将凶手绳之以法。”现场取证以及卫星数据和任何被截获的通讯，都可能有助于分析人士和调查人员确定谁发射了这枚致命的导弹。
Defense Department officials said late Thursday that they were examining the possibility that Ukrainian separatists with Russian advisers had fired a captured Ukrainian Army Buk missile system. The separatists do not otherwise have the technology to shoot down an airliner at such a high altitude, the officials said.
美国国防部(Defense Department)官员周四晚间表示，他们正在调查配备了俄罗斯顾问的乌克兰分裂分子，以查实是不是他们发射了一个从乌克兰陆军(Ukrainian Army)缴获的山毛榉导弹系统(Buk)。相关官员称，如果不是这样，以分裂分子的技术能力是不足以击落在那个高度飞行的飞机的。
Another possibility, a senior Pentagon official said, was that Russian troops just across the border from eastern Ukraine may have fired the missile. A third possibility, the official said, was that the Russians supplied the rebels with the missile.
五角大楼的一名高官表示，另一种可能是，发射导弹的就是位于乌克兰东部边境外的俄罗斯军队。这名官员表示，第三种可能是，导弹是由俄罗斯提供给反叛者的。
Two senior Pentagon officials said military analysts suspected that the missile was either an SA-11 or an SA-20.
五角大楼的两名高官表示，军事分析人士怀疑，击落飞机的导弹不是SA-11，就是SA-20。
By Thursday night, American intelligence analysts were increasingly focused on a theory that rebels had used a Russian-made SA-11 surface-to-air missile system to shoot down the aircraft and operated on their own fire-control radar, outside the checks and balances of the national Ukrainian air-defense network.
到周四夜间，美国情报分析专家越来越倾向于认为叛军使用了俄制SA-11地对空导弹系统，操控系统是他们自己的火控雷达，不在乌克兰国家防空体系之内。
“Everything we have, and it is not much, says separatists,” said a fourth senior Pentagon official. “That said, there’s still a lot of conjecture.”
“我们掌握的信息不是很多，但所有信息都表明是分裂分子干的，”五角大楼另一名高官说，“话虽如此，还是有很多地方有待证实。”
Russian troops have very similar SA-11 systems as well as the larger SA-20’s, Pentagon officials said.
五角大楼的官员表示，俄罗斯军队有非常相似的SA-11系统，以及更大的SA-20系统。
Reporters arriving at the scene near the town of Grabovo described dozens of lifeless bodies strewn about, mostly intact, in a field dotted with purple flowers, with remnants of the plane scattered across a road lined with fire engines and emergency vehicles. “It fell down in pieces,” said one rescue worker as tents were set up to gather the dead.
抵达格拉博沃镇附近现场的记者称，有几十具遗体散落在一片遍布着紫色花朵的田野里，遗体大多完好无损，飞机残骸散落在一条公路上，路两侧停放着消防车和应急车辆。“飞机坠落时已经是碎片，”一名救援人员称。为了收集死者遗体，人们搭起了帐篷。
Analysts from the military’s Joint Staff, European Command, Defense Intelligence Agency, and the C.I.A., among others, were expected to work around-the-clock in the coming days to try to determine what happened.
未来几天，军方的联合参谋部(Joint Staff)、欧洲司令部(European Command)、国防情报局(Defense Intelligence Agency)、中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)等机构预计会夜以继日地工作，尝试明确发生了什么。
Just hours after the crash, the Ukrainian foreign ministry distributed what it said were intercepted conversations from separatists suggesting they had shot down the plane and were shocked to discover it was a civilian jetliner.
坠机事件发生仅数小时后，乌克兰外交部长便公布了据称从分裂分子那里截获的对话，对话显示他们击落了一架飞机，并震惊地发现地是一架民用客机。
Ukraine’s intelligence agency, the State Security Service, known as the SBU, said audio was from intercepted phone calls between rebels and Russian military intelligence officers. The people speaking in the recording seem to acknowledge shooting down a civilian plane. The Ukrainian foreign ministry sent reporters a link to the edited audio of the calls posted on YouTube by the SBU with English subtitles.
乌克兰情报机构国家安全局(State Security Service)称，这段音频来自对反对派和俄罗斯军事情报官通话的窃听。录音中说话的人似乎已经承认自己击落了一架民用航班。乌克兰外交部给记者发送了一个链接。该局已经将链接中经过编辑的通话音频发布在了YouTube上，同时附有英文字幕。
According to a translation of the Russian audio by the English-language Kyiv Post, the recording beings with a separatist commander, Igor Bezler, telling a Russian military intelligence official, “We have just shot down a plane.”
根据英语报刊《基辅邮报》(Kyiv Post)对这段俄语音频的翻译，开始说话的是分裂主义组织指挥官伊戈尔·贝兹列尔(Igor Bezler)。他告诉一名俄罗斯军事情报官，“我们刚刚击落了一架飞机。”
In another call, a man who seems to be at the scene says that a group of Cossack militiamen shot down the plane. He adds that it was a passenger plane and that the debris contains no sign of any military equipment. Asked if there are any weapons, he says, “Absolutely nothing. Civilian items, medical equipment, towels, toilet paper.” Asked if there are any documents among the debris, the man of the ground says, “Yes, of one Indonesian student.”
在另一次通话中，一个似乎在现场的人说，飞机是被一个哥萨克民兵组织击落的。他还说，这是一架客机，残骸中并无迹象表明飞机上有任何军事装备。在被问到飞机是否配有武器时，他说，“绝对没有。全是民用物品、医疗设备、毛巾、卫生纸。”在被问到残骸中是否有什么证件时，这个在现场的人表示，“有，一个印尼学生的。”
Malaysia Airlines, still reeling from the mysterious loss of another Boeing 777 flight in March, said it had lost contact with Thursday’s flight, MH17, over Ukraine, a few hours after takeoff.
至今仍在为3月一架波音777型飞机的神秘失踪而困扰的马来西亚航空表示，周四的MH17航班在起飞数小时后，在乌克兰上空失联。
In Amsterdam, a Malaysia Airlines official, Huib Gorter, said the plane had carried 154 Dutch passengers; 45 Malaysians, including the crew; and 27 Australians, 12 Indonesians, nine Britons, four Belgians, four Germans, three Filipinos and one Canadian. The rest of the passengers had not been identified.
马航欧洲高级副总裁胡伊布·戈特(Huib Gorter)在阿姆斯特丹表示，飞机上载有154名荷兰乘客；45名马来西亚人，包括机组成员；27名澳大利亚人；12名印度尼西亚人；9名英国人；4名比利时人；3名菲律宾人和一名加拿大人。
Speaking at Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport, Huib Gorter, senior vice president for Malaysia Airlines Europe, said that Ukrainian authorities lost contact with the plane at 14:15 local time at a Ukrainian waypoint called “tarmac”, after it took off from Amsterdam Airport at 12:15 local time. (Ukraine is one hour ahead of The Netherlands.)
戈特说，当地时间14:15，乌克兰官方在一个叫做“tarmac”的乌克兰航点与飞机失去联系。飞机于当地时间12:15在阿姆斯特丹机场起飞。（乌克兰时间比荷兰早一个小时。）
President Obama, who one day earlier had announced strengthened sanctions against Russia over its support for the eastern Ukraine separatists, spoke by telephone with Mr. Putin, who raised the issue of the reports of the downed plane, White House officials said. Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Obama had been briefed about the plane crash.
一天前，由于俄罗斯对东乌克兰分裂分子的支持，奥巴马总统宣布加强对俄罗斯的制裁力度。白宫官员表示，奥巴马已与普京通话，后者提及了有关飞机被击落的报道。白宫发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说，有关部门已向奥巴马通报坠机事件。
Later Mr. Obama said the United States government was working to determine whether any Americans had been aboard the flight. Russia’s Interfax news agency said there had been no Russians aboard.
奥巴马随后表示，美国政府正试图查明飞机上是否有美国人。俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)表示，飞机上没有俄罗斯人。
There was no immediate word from the Kremlin about the substance of the Obama-Putin telephone call. The Kremlin put out a short statement saying that Mr. Putin had a previously scheduled telephone conversation with Mr. Obama.
克里姆林宫尚未立即就奥巴马与普京的通话内容发表任何消息。克里姆林宫发表了一份简短声明，称普京按计划与奥巴马进行了通话。
“The parties had a detailed discussion about the crisis in Ukraine,” the statement said. Mr. Putin repeated the need for an immediate cease-fire and objected to what he said was Ukrainian army fire striking inside Russia.
“双方详细讨论了乌克兰危机，”声明称。普京反复表示需要立即达成停火协议，并对他所称的乌克兰军队向俄罗斯境内开火一事表示抗议。
Interfax reported that Mr. Putin said later, during a meeting about economic issues that he started with a moment of silence for the accident in Ukraine, that “the government under whose territory this happened holds responsibility for this horrible tragedy.”
国际文传电讯社报道称，此后普京在一个讨论经济事宜的会开始前为乌克兰事件默哀，并表示“事发地的政府应该对这个可怕的悲剧负责。”
He added, “This tragedy would not have happened, if there was peace in this world, if there were no resumed hostilities in South-East Ukraine.”
他还表示，“如果世界和平，如果乌克兰东南部没有重新陷入战争，这个悲剧就不会发生。”
A brief truce between Kiev and seperatists ended when Ukrainian authorities launched military operations to retake rebel-held towns.
基辅和分裂主义者曾短暂休战，但在乌克兰官方采取军事行动重新夺回反动派占领的城镇后，双方的冲突再次展开。