KABUL, Afghanistan — For the first time since Vietnam, a United States Army general was killed in an overseas conflict on Tuesday when an Afghan soldier opened fire on senior American officers at a military training academy.
阿富汗喀布尔——周二，一名阿富汗士兵在军事训练学院朝一群美国高级军官开枪，导致一名美国陆军将领中弹身亡。这是越南战争以来第一次有美军将领在海外冲突中丧生。
The slain officer, Maj. Gen. Harold J. Greene, was the highest-ranking member of the NATO-led coalition killed in the Afghanistan war, and his death punctuated the problems vexing the Americans as they attempt to wind down the 13-year-old conflict, contending with a political crisis that has threatened to splinter the Afghan government and leave it unable to fend off the Taliban.
遭枪击的陆军少将哈罗德·J·格林(Maj. Gen. Harold J. Greene)是北约(NATO)领导的联军中，在阿富汗战争中丧生的军衔最高的官员。他的去世突显了目前困扰着美国的种种难题。此时美国正试图让持续13年的冲突收尾，也正面对着一场政治危机。危机之下，阿富汗政府有可能分崩离析，从而无力抵御塔利班(Taliban)。
The general was among a group of senior American and Afghan officers making a routine visit to Afghanistan’s premier military academy on the outskirts of Kabul when an Afghan soldier sprayed the officers with bullets from the window of a nearby building, hitting at least 15 before he was killed.
格林少将当时正与一群美国和阿富汗的高级军官一起，到位于喀布尔城郊的阿富汗最好的军事院校进行例行巡视。一名阿富汗士兵从附近一座大楼的窗户里开枪扫射，格林身亡前，已经至少有15人中弹。
Though American officials said General Greene was not believed to have been specifically targeted, his violent death at the hands of an Afghan soldier, not an insurgent, was a reminder of the dangers faced by even the highest-ranking — and best protected — officers in Afghanistan.
尽管美国官员表示，据信袭击并非专门针对格林，但行凶者并非叛乱分子，而是阿富汗士兵这一事实，让他的惨死成为了一个警示，提醒人们，即使是军衔最高、得到最周全保护的军官，在阿富汗也面临着危险。
Driving home the threat, an Afghan police officer opened fire on American soldiers visiting the governor of Paktia Province in eastern Afghanistan soon after the shooting at the military academy, Afghan and coalition officials said. The policeman was fatally shot; none of the Americans were wounded.
另一起事件同样突显了这种威胁。阿富汗和联军官员透露，军事学院枪击案发生后不久，在阿富汗东部的帕克蒂亚省，一名阿富汗警察向拜访省长的美国士兵开枪。这名警察被击毙，在场的美军士兵无人受伤。
There was no indication that either of the attackers were members of the Taliban, or that their acts were coordinated. The insurgents did not claim the attackers as their own, instead hailing them as hero soldiers. American officials said they had no reason to suspect the gunman at the military academy was anything but an ordinary Afghan soldier whose motivations remained a mystery.
没有迹象表明，这两起事件中的行凶者是塔利班成员，或者他们的举动经过了合谋。反叛分子并未宣称攻击者是自己的同伴，而是称赞他们是英勇的士兵。美国官员称，他们没有理由猜测军事学院的枪手不是一名普通的阿富汗士兵，不过此人的动机仍是个谜。
But scores of these so-called insider attacks have plagued the American military in recent years, and Afghan and American commanders believe the vast majority have been carried out by Afghan soldiers and police alienated and angered by the protracted war in their country, and the corrupt and ineffectual government that the United States has left in place. Few of the attacks are believed to have been the result of coordinated Taliban plots.
然而最近几年里，美国军队已经遭受了数十起这种所谓的“内部袭击”。阿富汗和美国指挥官认为，在这些袭击中，绝大多数的行凶者是那些感到孤立和愤怒的阿富汗军警。令他们产生不满的原因，既有国内的战事久拖不决，又有美国扶持的政府腐败无能。据信，极少有袭击事件是由塔利班协调策划的。
Rear Adm. John F. Kirby, the Pentagon spokesman, said officials believed the gunman was “a member of the Afghan national security forces,” but he had no other details about him or the circumstances of the shooting.
五角大楼发言人约翰·F·柯比海军少将(Rear Adm. John F. Kirby)表示，官方认为，枪手是“阿富汗国家安全部队的一名成员”。但柯比少将并没有透露其他涉及行凶者本人或枪击案发生的情形的细节。
Still, Admiral Kirby maintained on Tuesday that the insider attack, the first in months, would not change the Obama administration’s plans to leave a residual force in Afghanistan after most American forces are withdrawn at the end of the year and the NATO combat mission here formally concludes.
不过，柯比周二坚持称，这起数月来的首次内部袭击事件，不会改变奥巴马政府的计划，即在今年年底大部分美国部队撤离，北约在阿富汗的作战任务也正式结束后，在当地保留一些驻军。
Admiral Kirby emphasized the progress that Afghan forces had made in recent years, citing as examples their role in limiting violence in the presidential election in April and the June runoff vote.
柯比强调了阿富汗军队近年来取得的进步，并举例称，他们在今年4月的总统选举及6月的第二轮投票中，起到了限制暴力的作用。
“They have had a good year, securing not one, but two, national elections and stopping or minimizing the impact of countless numbers of attacks throughout the country — even in Kabul,” he said.
他说，“他们今年成绩很好，为全国大选保障安全，不仅是一轮投票，而是两轮。此外还在全国各地乃至喀布尔，阻止了无数的袭击事件，或是最大限度地削弱了袭击事件的影响。”
Yet the shooting was a blunt reminder that discipline and vetting remain a challenge, and rogue Afghan soldiers and policemen remain a threat, despite a sharp drop in insider attacks since 2012, when the violence peaked and dozens of coalition service members were killed by Afghan counterparts.
然而这次的枪击案却让人沉痛地认识到，纪律约束和人员筛查仍然是一个挑战，而不受控的阿富汗士兵和警察仍然是一个威胁，尽管这两年里内部袭击事件大幅减少。2012年，暴力袭击事件的数量达到最高，有数十名联军士兵被阿富汗友军杀害。
With foreign troops having largely ceded their front-line role to Afghan forces in the past two years, training and advising Afghans is one of the few crucial roles still played here by the coalition. American soldiers largely stay out of the Taliban’s line of fire, but they must still maintain close contact with Afghan soldiers and policemen. Foreign forces have few options for protecting themselves, short of cutting off contact with the Afghans.
由于外国士兵已经很大程度上脱离前线，把阵地让给了阿富汗部队，因而训练阿富汗士兵并充当顾问，已经成了联军在阿富汗为数不多的关键职责之一。美国军人基本上会远离塔利班的火力线，然而他们必须继续与阿富汗士兵和警察维持密切的接触。除了与阿富汗人彻底隔离之外，外国军队没有多少保护自己的手段。
But that would make the training mission impossible, as General Greene, 55, most likely knew.
然而这样就不可能执行训练任务了。55岁的格林少将恐怕也明白这一点。
He was one of the most senior officers overseeing the transition from a war led and fought by foreign troops to one conducted by Afghan forces. His specialty was logistics — he was a longtime acquisitions officer — and he was dispatched to Afghanistan to help the Afghan military address one of its most potentially debilitating weaknesses: inability to manage soldiers and weaponry.
在负责让这场外国部队领导和参加的战争，过渡成由阿富汗部队进行的战争的军官中，他是军衔最高的将领之一。他的专长是后勤，曾长期负责采购，他被派去阿富汗，是为了帮助阿富汗军方解决无力管理士兵和武器这个薄弱之处，而这是最有可能削弱阿富汗军队力量的软肋之一。
Compared with the infantry grunts who did tours of duty in the Taliban-infested hinterlands of Afghanistan, General Greene’s assignment appeared to carry far less risk. Yet on Tuesday, he became one of the more than 2,300 American service members killed in Afghanistan.
和在塔利班常常出没的阿富汗内陆地区执行任务的步兵相比，格林少将的任务风险似乎低很多。但周二，他成了在阿富汗遇难的2300多名美国服役人员中的一个。
Admiral Kirby said his death reflected an inherent risk of the war, calling insider attacks “a pernicious threat and always difficult to ascertain.”
柯比少将表示，格林少将的遇难反映出了这场战争内在的风险，称内部袭击是“一个致命威胁，从来难以查明”。
“Afghanistan is still a war zone,” he said.
“阿富汗依然是战区，”他说。
In images of the incident released by The A.P., the gunner appeared to be firing a warning flare.
在美联社(The A.P.)公布的事件照片中，枪手似乎先开了一枪，以示警告。
“I haven’t seen anything like this since 2010,” when an American and a Canadian colonel and two American lieutenant colonels were killed in suicide car bombing, said an American official in Kabul. There was “more than a little shock and numbness” at coalition headquarters.
“2010年以后，我从没遇到过这种事情，”喀布尔的一名美国官员说。在联军总部，人们“颇为震惊，感到麻木”。2010年，一名美国陆军上校、一名加拿大陆军上校和两名美国陆军中校在一起自杀式汽车炸弹袭击中遇难身亡。
Another coalition official compared General Greene’s death to the killings of American advisers at Afghanistan’s Interior Ministry by an Afghan government employee in 2012, an attack that led many Western officials here to question the viability of their purpose here. That attack came amid a wave of anti-American violence over burnings of Qurans at Bagram Air Field, a sprawling base north of Kabul.
另一名联军官员将格林少将的遇害，和2012年一名阿富汗政府雇员在该国内政部(Interior Ministry)杀害美国顾问事件相提并论。那次袭击导致这里的许多西方官员质疑他们在这里的目的的可行性。就在那次袭击发生之前，喀布尔北部庞大的巴格拉姆空军基地(Bagram Air Field)出现焚烧古兰经事件，而这引发了一波反美暴力浪潮。
There was no similar incident before Tuesday’s shooting. The general and the other Afghan and American officers were standing by a water purification tank when the Afghan soldier opened fire without warning, a senior Pentagon official said.
在周二的枪击事件之前，没有发生过类似事件。五角大楼的一名高官说，那名阿富汗士兵未发出警告便开火，当时格林少将正和其他一些阿富汗和美国军官站在一个净化水池旁边。
Afghan forces responded quickly, gunning down the assailant, and the shooting was over nearly as quickly as it began, Afghan and coalition officials said.
阿富汗和联军官员称，阿富汗部队反应迅速，击中袭击者，于是这起枪击事件突然开始，又倏忽结束。
A German brigadier general and a senior Afghan commander also were among the wounded, Afghan and coalition officials said, though they declined to identify any of the Western victims by name. The identity of the gunman was not disclosed either.
阿富汗和联军官员表示，受伤的人中包括一名德国准将和一名阿富汗高级指挥官，但他们拒绝透露任何西方受害人的姓名。枪手的身份也未被公布。
Late into the night on Tuesday, many details of the shooting were sketchy, and the coalition, in an official statement, would only confirm that one of its service members had been killed in what it described as “an incident” at the Marshal Fahim National Defense University in Kabul.
到周二深夜，此次枪击事件的许多细节还很模糊，联军在一份官方声明中也仅证实，一名服役人员在喀布尔法希姆元帅国防大学(Marshal Fahim National Defense University)遇难。声明称之为“一起事件”。