SEOUL, South Korea — The United States ambassador to South Korea, Mark W. Lippert, was attacked Thursday morning by a knife-wielding man who said he opposed joint American-South Korean military exercises, according to Korean journalists and officials who were at the scene.
韩国首尔——周四上午，美国驻韩国大使马克·W·利伯特(Mark W. Lippert)遭一名持刀男子袭击。现场的韩国记者和官员表示，此人声称自己是为了反对美韩联合军事演习。[此处观看现场视频]
Mr. Lippert was taken to a Seoul hospital in stable condition with bleeding on the right side of his face, they added. South Korean news websites carried photos of Mr. Lippert walking to a car to be taken to the hospital.
现场人员还称，利伯特已被送往首尔的一家医院，当时情况稳定，但右脸仍在流血。韩国新闻网站上发布了一些照片，显示利伯特正走向一辆车，准备前往医院。
He was covering the injury with his hand, and his shirt was spattered with blood. The assailant was apprehended at the scene and taken into custody.
他用手捂住伤口，衬衫上溅有鲜血。行凶者被当场擒获，并遭扣押。
Before he was taken away, the attacker, who identified himself as Kim Ki-jong, told South Korean reporters that he had attacked Mr. Lippert to protest the annual joint military exercises that the United States started this week with South Korea.
在被带走之前，自称为金基宗(Kim Ki-jong)的这名行凶者告诉韩国记者，他之所以袭击利伯特，是想对美韩两国本周开始的年度联合军演表示抗议。
Some left-leaning activists in South Korea have criticized the exercises, saying that they raise tensions with North Korea and hamper efforts to build reconciliation on the divided Korean Peninsula. North Korea also condemned the exercises as a rehearsal for invasion, though both Washington and Seoul said the drills were defensive in nature.
韩国的一些左倾活动人士对军演一直持批判态度，认为这样做会加剧与朝鲜之间的紧张，阻碍促进分裂的朝鲜半岛进行和解的种种努力。朝鲜也谴责军演是对入侵的预演，不过华盛顿和首尔均表示演习属于防御性质。
Marie Harf, a State Department spokeswoman, said in a statement that Mr. Lippert’s wounds were not life-threatening. “We strongly condemn this act of violence,” she said, adding that the United States Embassy in Seoul was “coordinating with local law enforcement authorities.” She did not provide further details.
国务院发言人玛丽·哈夫(Marie Harf)发表声明称，利伯特的伤势不会危及生命。“我们强烈谴责这种暴力行径，”她说。她还表示，美国驻首尔大使馆正在“与当地执法部门合作”。她并未提供进一步细节。
South Korean journalists said the attack occurred at about 7:10 a.m. on Thursday, shortly after Mr. Lippert arrived at a restaurant attached to Sejong Center, a performance hall across the main boulevard from the American Embassy at the center of Seoul. He was scheduled to deliver a speech at a breakfast meeting hosted by the Korean Council for Reconciliation and Cooperation, a local nongovernmental group focused on exchanges and reconciliation with North Korea.
韩国记者表示，袭击事件发生在周四清晨7点10分，当时利伯特刚刚到达首尔世宗文化会馆的餐厅。这座表演中心与位于首尔市中心的美国大使馆仅隔着一条主干道。利伯特原本计划在韩国非政府组织“民族和解合作泛国民协议会”(Korean Council for Reconciliation and Cooperation)举办的早餐会上发表演讲。该组织致力于朝韩交流与和解工作。
“He sat at the head table and was exchanging name cards when a man approached the ambassador and toppled him and attacked him in the face with a knife,” said one of the reporters, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of his paper’s regulations on giving information to other news organizations. “When asked about his motive, he said he was committing an act of ‘terror’ to oppose military exercises for war.”
“大使坐在主桌。就在他与别人交换名片的时候，一名男子靠近大使，将他扑到，用刀刺伤了他的脸部，”一名记者表示。“当被问到袭击动机时，他自称实施‘恐怖’袭击是为了反对意在战争的军演。”这名记者要求不具名，因为他所在的报社不允许向其他新闻机构提供消息。
Mr. Lippert, an expert on Asia policy, was named ambassador to South Korea in 2014 after spending years working for President Obama on the National Security Council and at the Defense Department. Just before moving to the State Department, he was chief of staff to Chuck Hagel, then the defense secretary.
利伯特是亚洲政策方面的专家，于2014年被任命为美国驻韩国大使，此前曾在国家安全委员会(National Security Council)和国防部为奥巴马政府效力多年。在进入国务院之前，他是时任国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)的幕僚长。