WASHINGTON — The United States carried out a missile attack in Syria on Thursday night in response to the Syrian government’s chemical weapons attack this week that killed more than 80 civilians, American officials said.
华盛顿——美国官员称，周四晚间，美国在叙利亚进行了导弹袭击，以回应叙利亚政府本周的化学武器袭击。此次化武袭击造成80多名平民丧生。
Dozens of Tomahawk cruise missiles were fired at an air base in Syria, military officials said. They said the strike occurred at about 8:45 p.m. Eastern Time, that the target was the Shayrat airfield and that the strike had hit planes, fuel, spare parts and the runway.
军方官员称，美军向叙利亚的一个空军基地发射了数十枚“战斧”(Tomahawk)巡航导弹。他们表示，袭击发生在美国东部时间晚上8点45分左右，目标是沙伊拉特机场，击中了飞机、燃料、配件和跑道。
According to one military official, 50 Tomahawks were launched from two Navy warships.
据一名军官称，美国从两艘海军船舰上发射了50枚“战斧”导弹。
The official said that the cruise missile strike was at the more limited end of the military options presented to President Trump Thursday by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. The cruise missile strike, the official said, was intended to send a message to Mr. Assad about the American intention to use military force if he continues to use chemical weapons.
这名军官称，导弹袭击是周四国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)向特朗普总统提供的军事打击方案中较为有限的一种。该官员称，本次导弹袭击旨在向阿萨德(Assad)发出一个信号：如果他继续使用化学武器，美国打算使用武力。
It was the first time that the White House had ordered military action against forces loyal to Mr. Assad.
这是白宫首次下令对忠于阿萨德的部队采取军事行动。
The speed with which the Trump administration responded — and remarks earlier in the day by American officials who said that options were still being considered — appeared intended to maximize the element of surprise and sharply contrasted with the methodical scrutiny of the use of force by the Obama administration.
特朗普政府的回应速度——以及当天早些时候美国官员的评论，他们表示仍在考虑相关选择——似乎意在最大限度地造成意外的效果，并与奥巴马政府对使用武力的有条不紊的审议形成鲜明对比。
It was Mr. Trump’s first order to the military for the use of force — other operations in Syria, Yemen and Iraq had been carried out under authorization delegated to his commanders — and appeared intended to send a message to North Korea, Iran and other potential adversaries that the new commander in chief was prepared to act, and sometimes on short notice.
这是特朗普首次向军方下令使用武力——美国在叙利亚、也门和伊拉克的其他军事行动是他那些获得授权的指挥官展开的——似乎旨在向朝鲜和伊朗等潜在对手发出信号，表明这位新任三军统帅愿意采取行动，有时速度还会很快。
The airstrikes were carried out less than an hour after the president concluded a dinner with Xi Jinping, the president of China, at his estate in Mar-a-Lago in Florida, sending an unmistakably aggressive message about Mr. Trump’s willingness to use the military power at his disposal.
这次空袭是在特朗普总统与中国国家主席习近平在佛罗里达州马阿拉歌庄园共进晚餐后不到一个小时进行的。它发出了一个明确的强硬信号：特朗普打算按照自己的意愿使用那些可供动用的武力选项。
Mr. Trump authorized the strike with no congressional approval for the use of force, an assertion of presidential authority that contrasts sharply with the protracted deliberations over the use of force by his predecessor, former President Barack Obama.
特朗普动用了总统权力，未经国会批准就授权进行打击，这与前任总统贝拉克·奥巴马就使用武力展开的冗长讨论形成鲜明对比。
Unlike Mr. Obama, who weighed — and ultimately rejected — the use of a similar strike at targets after Syria used chemical weapons in 2013, Mr. Trump moved with remarkable speed, delivering the punishing military strike barely 72 hours after the devastating chemical attack that killed 80 people this week.
2013年，叙利亚使用化学武器后，奥巴马经过权衡，最终拒绝进行类似的袭击。而特朗普则以惊人的速度采取行动，在本周的毁灭性化学袭击导致80人丧生后的短短72小时内进行了惩罚性军事打击。