CLAYTON, Mo. — A St. Louis County grand jury has brought no criminal charges against Darren Wilson, a white police officer who fatally shot Michael Brown, an unarmed African-American teenager, more than three months ago in nearby Ferguson.
密苏里州克莱顿——圣路易斯县的一个大陪审团没有对达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)提出刑事指控。三个多月前，在附近的弗格森镇，这名白人警察枪杀了手无寸铁的黑人少年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)。
At a news conference, the St. Louis County prosecutor, Robert P. McCulloch, said that members of the grand jury deliberated for more than two days before finding that no probable cause existed to file charges against Officer Wilson.
在新闻发布会上，圣路易斯县检察官罗伯特·P·麦卡洛克(Robert P. McCulloch)说，大陪审团的成员经过两天多的商议，认为不存在对威尔逊警官提出指控的充分理由。
The decision set off a new wave of anger among hundreds who gathered outside the Ferguson Police Department. Police in riot gear stood in a line as demonstrators chanted and threw signs and other objects toward them as the news spread. One woman said: “The system failed us again.”
这个决定再次点燃了聚集在弗格森警察局门外的数百人的愤怒。身穿防爆装备的警察站了一排，随着消息的传出，示威者一边高喊口号，一边朝警察投掷标语和其他物体。一名妇女说：“制度再次辜负了我们。”
Mr. Brown’s family issued a statement expressing sadness but calling for peaceful protest and a campaign for body cameras on police officers nationwide. “We are profoundly disappointed that the killer of our child will not face the consequence of his actions,” the statement said. “While we understand that many others share our pain, we ask that you channel your frustration in ways that will make a positive change. We need to work together to fix the system that allowed this to happen.”
布朗的家人发布了一份声明，表达了悲痛的心情，但同时也呼吁和平抗议，并为全国警察配备可穿戴摄像头。“杀害我们孩子的凶手将不会为自己的行为承担后果，这让我们深感失望，”声明说。“我们知道许多其他人和我们一样痛苦，但我们请求你们以能够促成积极变化的方式来排解你们的失望。我们需要共同努力，纠正让这种情况发生的制度。”
Mr. McCulloch said that over 25 days, the grand jury heard more than 70 hours of testimony from 60 witnesses, including three medical examiners. In its deliberations, the grand jury considered five possible charges ranging from first degree murder to involuntary manslaughter.
麦卡洛克说，25天以来，大陪审团听取了60位证人的70多个小时的证词，其中包括三名验尸官的证词。在审议过程中，大陪审团考虑了从一级谋杀到过失杀人的五种可能指控。
Grand jurors were “the only people who heard every witness,” he said, “and every piece of evidence.” Many witnesses presented conflicting statements that ultimately were inconsistent with the physical evidence.
他说，大陪审团的成员是“唯一听取过所有证言和证据的人”。许多证人的说法相互矛盾，而且与物证不符。
He declined to release the vote of the grand jury, which was made up of nine whites and three blacks, saying that the process was secret.
他拒绝公布大陪审团的投票情况，称该过程需要保密。这个陪审团由九名白人和三名黑人组成。
The killing on a residential street in Ferguson set off civil unrest — and a national debate — fueled by protesters’ outrage over what they called a pattern of police brutality against young black men.
发生在弗格森一条住宅区街道的枪击事件引发了民众骚乱以及一场全国性的讨论。抗议者对他们所说的针对青年黑人的警方暴行怒不可遏，这助推了骚乱活动。
The St. Louis area has been steeped in anxiety as it has waited for a decision by the grand jury, which was made up of nine whites and three blacks and had been meeting on the case since Aug. 20. Around the region, law enforcement authorities were on alert Monday, and the Missouri National Guard stood by as word of the decision began leaking out; political leaders, including Gov. Jay Nixon, held last-minute meetings with community members; and residents, including parents of schoolchildren, braced for what might come next.
在等待大陪审团做出裁决的过程中，圣路易斯地区一直沉浸在焦虑中。这个由九名白人和三名黑人组成的大陪审团从8月20日开始一直在对该案进行讨论。随着裁决的内容开始，该地区执法部门周一处于戒备状态，密苏里国民警卫队(Missouri National Guard)也严阵以待；包括州长杰伊·尼克松(Jay Nixon)在内的政治领袖与社区成员在决定公布前的最后一刻举行了会议；包括学生家长在内的居民也为可能发生的事情做好了准备。
As darkness fell and word of the decision in the case spread, a growing, tense group of hundreds of protesters gathered outside Ferguson Police Headquarters as a line of police officers stood watch nearby. Many of protesters stood in the middle of the street, and all traffic was blocked. Some people wore masks. “Whose streets! Our streets!” some chanted. “We’ve got to fight back!”
随着夜幕降临，以及消息的传出，数百名示威者聚集在弗格森警察局，示威者的队伍不断扩大，现场气氛紧张，一排警察站在旁边观察着局面。许多示威者站在街道中央，所有的交通都被阻断。一些人带着口罩。“谁的街道！我们的街道！”一些人喊道。“我们必须反击！”
Protesters were listening to the prosecutor’s statement on radios throughout the crowd. While the prosecutor was speaking, Mr. Brown’s mother, Lesley McSpadden, and stepfather, Louis Head, stepped onto a platform where protest leaders were standing.
抗议者从无线电中听到了检察官的声明。检察官讲话的同时，布朗的母亲莱斯利·麦克斯帕登(Lesley McSpadden)和继父路易斯·海德(Louis Head)走上了抗议领袖站着的讲台上。
With a stern look on her face, Ms. McSpadden yelled frustrated responses to what the prosecutor was saying.
麦克斯帕登面色凝重，声嘶力竭地表达着对检察官的声明的不满。
“Defend himself from what!” she yelled, when the prosecutor spoke of Officer Wilson defending himself. She added that this was a joke. She wore a white winter hat stitched with “JFMS” in blue.
当检察官提到威尔森警官为自己辩护时，她喊道，“为自己辩护什么！”她接着说，那就是个笑话。麦克斯帕登戴着一顶白色的冬帽，上面绣着蓝色的“JFMS”字样。
“They wrong,” she yelled, pointing toward the police officers standing outside of the station.
“他们错了，”她喊道，指向站在警察局外的警察。
They still don’t care,” she said. Ms. McSpadden then sunk her head into her husband’s chest and bounced as she wept vigorously.
“他们还是不在乎，”她说。麦克斯帕登随后把头埋在丈夫的胸前，不停地抽泣。
Law enforcement authorities had been on alert in preparation for unrest if no indictment was returned. Even before the decision was announced, National Guard troops were dispatched to a police command post; political leaders, including Gov. Jay Nixon, flew here to hold last-minute meetings with community members; schools closed for the week; and businesses and residents, including parents of schoolchildren, braced for what might come next.
执法部门一直高度戒备，以防不起诉的决议下来后发生骚乱。就在决议宣布前，国民警卫队(National Guard)的部队被派往一处警察指挥所；包括州长杰伊·尼克松(Jay Nixon)在内的政治领袖乘飞机来到这里，与社区成员举行最后时刻的会面；学校停课一周；企业以及包括学生家长在内的居民为接下来可能出现的情况做好了准备。
Mr. Nixon, who had declared a state of emergency and called up the Missouri National Guard last week, called for peace and calm in a news conference Monday several hours before the decision was announced. “Our shared hope and expectation is that regardless of the decision people on all sides show tolerance, mutual respect and restraint,” he said.
周一，宣布进入紧急状态并于上周致电密苏里国民警卫队的尼克松，在决议宣布几小时前的新闻发布会上呼吁和平、冷静。“我们都希望并期待，不论是什么决议，各方都要表现出容忍、相互尊重和克制，”他说。
Charlie A. Dooley, the St Louis county executive, who appeared with Mr. Nixon, said, “Now is the time to show the world that we can act without being destructive.”
与尼克松一同现身的圣路易斯县长查理·A·杜利(Charlie A. Dooley)说，“现在是时候向世界表明，我们能在行动的同时不造成破坏。”
Yet many here questioned why the authorities would announce the decision in the evening, rather than waiting for daylight hours. Furious, sometimes violent, demonstrations and tense clashes with the police took place late into the night for several weeks in August, and some law enforcement officers had urged a daytime announcement. Over a period of weeks, many leaders here had suggested that a Sunday morning announcement would be best, but the grand jury finished its work on Monday. Asked about the timing, Mr. Nixon said it had been the choice of Mr. McCulloch.
然而，这里的许多人质疑，当局为何在傍晚而不是等到白天宣布这一决议。在8月的几周时间里，愤怒的示威，以及与警方紧张的冲突均发生在深夜。那些示威活动有时会诉诸暴力。一些执法人员主张白天宣布决议。数周来，这里的许多领袖表示，周日上午宣布是最佳选择，但大陪审团在周一才结束工作。被问及时间选择时，尼克松称这是麦卡洛克选的。
Many of the elaborate plans for how the grand jury’s decision would be released — including 48-hour notice for the police after the decision — appeared to have been scrapped. The family of Michael Brown, the 18-year-old who was killed by Officer Wilson on Aug. 9, was notified by prosecutors in the afternoon, after some reports had already appeared on television and online. A lawyer for the family expressed frustration that they had not been told sooner.
关于如何公布大陪审团的决议，有一些列周密的计划，包括在做出决议后的48小时内通知警方。但许多计划似乎都已作废。8月9日遭威尔逊枪击身亡的18岁青年迈克尔·布朗的家人，是下午才接到检方通知的。那时，电视和网上已经出现了一些相关报道。布朗一家的代理律师对未及早通知他们表示失望。
Officer Wilson, who largely vanished from public view after the shooting, has spent the last several days in a state of nervous anticipation, those close to him said, and had prepared for the possibility of being indicted. Last week, Officer Wilson met with Jeff Roorda, an official with Shield of Hope, a charitable foundation for police officers that had offered to provide him with bail money, should it be needed. And his lawyers spoke with officials in the St. Louis County prosecutor’s office to discuss how Officer Wilson would turn himself in. A tentative plan, people close to Officer Wilson said, was that he would be quietly brought to the courthouse in Clayton, accompanied by his lawyers, and post bond. But by Monday night, the officer had not been asked to turn himself in.
枪击事件后，威尔逊几乎在公众视线中消失了。接近他的人称，过去几天，他一直处于一种紧张的等待状态，并且已经为可能会被起诉做好了准备。上周，威尔逊与守护希望(Shield of Hope)组织的一名官员碰了头。作为一个面向警察的慈善基金会，该机构表示如有需要，将为威尔逊提供保释金。威尔逊的代理律师也与圣路易斯县检察官办公室进行了沟通，讨论了威尔逊自首的方式。接近威尔逊的人称，初步计划是，将他连同保证金悄悄带到克莱顿法院，律师将与他同行。但到了周一夜里，威尔逊并未被要求自首。
The Brown family has, by contrast, traveled widely to speak about their son’s death, including appearing at the BET Hip Hop Awards, meeting with United Nations officials in Geneva and talking with protesters near the spot where Mr. Brown was killed.
形成对比的是，布朗的家人前往各地讲述儿子遇害一事，包括现身黑人娱乐电视嘻哈音乐大奖(BET Hip Hop Awards)颁奖典礼，在日内瓦接受联合国官员的会见，以及在布朗遇害地附近与抗议者交谈。
Mr. Brown’s father, Michael Brown Sr., handed out turkeys to needy families over the weekend, and has filmed a public service announcement urging calm once the grand jury decision is announced. The parents have been pushing for what supporters have called the Michael Brown Law, which would require officers to wear body cameras.
布朗的父亲老迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown Sr.)在周末给贫困的邻居分发了火鸡，还拍摄了一部公益广告，呼吁一旦大陪审团宣读了决议，要保持冷静。这一对父母一直在推动支持者所说的《迈克尔·布朗法》(Michael Brown Law)。该法要求警察随身佩戴摄像头。