The first prescription drug to enhance women’s sexual drive won regulatory approval Tuesday, clinching a victory for a lobbying campaign that had accused the Food and Drug Administration of gender bias for ignoring the sexual needs of women.
首款增强女性性欲的处方药于周二获得监管机构批准，这意味着一场游说行动的胜利，游说人士在行动中指责美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）忽略女性性需求的行为是性别歧视。
The drug — Addyi from Sprout Pharmaceuticals — is actually the first drug approved to treat a flagging or absent libido for either sex. Viagra and other drugs available for men are approved to help achieve erections, or to treat certain deficiencies of the hormone testosterone, not to increase desire.
斯普劳特制药(Sprout Pharmaceuticals)生产的药物Addyi实际上是首款获得批准的治疗两性性欲衰退或缺乏的药物。而万艾可(Viagra)及其他获批的男性用药是用来帮助勃起或治疗某些特定的睾丸激素匮乏，而不是增加性欲。
Advocates who pressed for approval of Addyi, many of them part of a coalition called Even the Score, said that a drug to improve women’s sex lives was long overdue, given the many options available to men.
要求批准Addyi的倡导人士表示，男性有很多选择，早就应该推出改善女性性生活的药物，其中很多人都是平分运动(Even the Score)联盟的成员。
“This is the biggest breakthrough for women’s sexual health since the pill,” said Sally Greenberg, executive director of the National Consumers League.
国家消费者联盟(National Consumers League)的执行董事莎莉·格林伯格(Sally Greenberg) 表示，“这是有避孕药以来，女性性健康方面的最大突破。”
But critics said the campaign behind Addyi had made a mockery of the system that regulates pharmaceuticals and had co-opted the women’s movement to pressure the F.D.A. into approving a drug that was at best minimally effective and could cause side effects like low blood pressure, fainting, nausea, dizziness and sleepiness.
但批评人士表示， Addyi背后的运动愚弄了药品监管制度，假借妇女运动来迫使FDA批准一种效果甚微而且可能会引起低血压、昏厥、恶心、头晕及嗜睡等副作用的药物。
The F.D.A. decision Tuesday was not a surprise since an advisory committee of outside experts had recommended by a vote of 18 to 6 in June that the drug be approved, albeit with precautions required to try to limit the risks and ensure that it was not overused. Even some committee members who voted in favor of the drug expressed only tepid support.
FDA周二做出的决定并非出人意料，因为一个由外部专家组成的咨询委员会在今年6月以18比6的投票结果，决定建议批准这种药物，尽管他们要求采取预防举措，设法限制风险，确保不会出现过度使用的情况。该委员会中投票支持该药物的成员只是表达了有限的支持。
The big question now is how many women will use Addyi (pronounced ADD-ee), which is also known as flibanserin and has sometimes been called the “pink Viagra.”According to one survey, about 10 percent of women suffer from hypoactive sexual desire disorder, the condition the drug is approved to treat.
现在的最大问题是有多少女性会使用Addyi，这种药物又名氟班色林(Flibanserin)，有时还被称为“粉色万艾可”。一项研究显示，大约10%的女性存在性欲减退障碍，这种药物的获批就是为了治疗这一问题。
Dr. Lauren Streicher, associate professor of clinical obstetrics and gynecology at Northwestern University, said she sensed great interest for a drug like Addyi among her patients. She said the drug’s availability would encourage many women to talk to doctors about their sexual problems for the first time.
西北大学(Northwestern University)临床妇产科学教授劳伦·施特赖歇尔(Lauren Streicher)博士表示，她觉得她的病人对Addyi这样的药物很感兴趣。她表示，该药物的上市会鼓励很多女性首次向医生诉说她们的性问题。
“I think this is going to change the conversation that’s taking place in medical offices across the country,” she said, much as the 1998 approval of Viagra made it acceptable for men to talk about erectile dysfunction.
她说，“我觉得这会改变全国各地医疗机构中进行的对话。”就像1998年批准万艾可的决定，使得男性能够接受谈论勃起障碍的问题一样。
Cindy Whitehead, the chief executive of Sprout, declined to predict sales of Addyi, which she said would be available starting Oct. 17.
斯普劳特制药公司首席执行官辛迪·怀特黑德(Cindy Whitehead)拒绝预测Addyi的销售额，她表示将从10月17日开始销售该药物。
To allay concerns that the drug would be overused, Sprout has said it would not advertise on radio or television for 18 months after the drug’s approval. Ms. Whitehead said the company would focus its marketing on doctors, not consumers. She said Sprout planned to hire 200 sales representatives, enough to call on about 30,000 doctors, mainly obstetricians and gynecologists but also some psychiatrists and primary care physicians.
为了减轻对过度使用该药物的担忧，斯普劳特公司曾表示，在药物获得批准后的18个月内，不会在电台或电视台做广告。怀特黑德表示，公司的营销对象主要是医生，而不是顾客。她表示，斯普劳特计划雇佣200名销售代表，足以拜访三万名医生，其中主要是妇产科医生，但也有一些精神病医生和初级护理医师。
She said the exact price of Addyi had not been decided but suggested it would be roughly equivalent on a monthly basis to erectile dysfunction pills. Those pills are generally taken when needed, while Addyi is supposed to be taken nightly. That makes a direct comparison difficult. But 10 Viagra tablets, a possible monthly allotment, cost about $400.
她表示Addyi的具体价格尚未确定，但暗示每月的费用会与勃起障碍药物的费用差不多。后者通常是在需要时服用，而Addyi应该是每晚服用。因此很难进行直接对比。但10粒万艾可——可能是一个月的用量——的价格是大约400美元。