CORVALLIS, Ore. — As the anthropology instructor engaged her class, a fault line quickly developed. American students answered and asked questions, even offered opinions, but the foreigners — half the class, most from China — sat in silence.
俄勒冈州科瓦利斯——当那位人类学讲师开始与课堂上的学生互动时，一条断层线迅速形成。美国学生既回答问题也提出问题，有时甚至还会发表意见，但占全班人数一半的外国学生却坐在那里一言不发，这些学生中的大部分来自中国。
It became clear that some had understood little of the lecture here at Oregon State University and were not ready to be enrolled. In fact, they are not, at least not yet.
很明显，有些学生在俄勒冈州立大学(Oregon State University)的这堂课上听得云里雾里，他们还没有做好参与的准备。实际上他们也确实没有正式入学，至少现在还没有。
Instead, those students fit into a fast-growing and lucrative niche in higher education, of efforts to increase enrollment of foreigners with transitional programs to bridge the cultural divide — often a chasm — between what it means to be a college student in their own countries and in the United States. Oregon State’s program, a joint venture with a private company, Into University Partnerships, prepares students to move into the university’s mainstream after a year, as Oregon State sophomores.
这些学生参加的项目属于高等教育中一个发展迅猛、利润丰厚的特殊市场，其目的是吸引更多外国学生参加过渡性项目来弥合文化差异。对于这些学生来说，在自己的国家上大学和在美国上大学意味着将面临巨大的文化差异，甚至是鸿沟。俄勒冈州立大学的这个项目，是和一家名为INTO教育集团(Into University Partnerships)的私营公司合作的，旨在让学生经过一年的过渡性课程后融入学校的主流文化，成为俄勒冈州立大学二年级学生。
Colleges want, and increasingly need, more foreign students, not only for high-minded reasons, but also because foreigners generally pay full price. Recruitment from overseas is a rare and increasingly important financial bright spot at a time when state support for higher education has dropped to historic lows, research grants are declining, consumers are objecting to tuition increases, and the supply of college-age Americans is stagnant.
美国高校不仅希望，而且也越来越需要招收更多的外国学生，这不单是出于一些高尚的原因，也是由于外国学生通常会支付全额学费。如今，美国政府对高等教育的支持程度滑落到了历史低点，研究经费在减少，人们反对学费上涨，大学年龄的美国人人数难以增加，在这样一个时候，海外招生就成为了寥寥无几的财务亮点中的一个，而且变得愈发重要。
“It is a wonderful source of revenue,” said Sabah U. Randhawa, Oregon State’s provost. “It helps us afford to admit more resident students, offer them more aid, expand the faculty and infrastructure.”
“这是一个很好的收入来源，”俄勒冈州立大学的教务长沙巴·U·兰德哈瓦(Sabah U. Randhawa)说。“它帮助我们得以招收更多的本土学生，为他们提供更多的资助，扩大教师队伍和基础设施。”
The university’s joint venture, called Into Oregon State, has about 1,400 students, most from China and most studying engineering. Dr. Randhawa wants to expand it significantly, in part, he said, “because we want more academic and national diversity, and because engineering is an expensive discipline.”
该校的这个合作项目名叫“INTO俄勒冈州立大学项目”(Into Oregon State)，现有约1400名学生，大部分来自中国，大多数都学习工程专业。兰德哈瓦博士希望大幅扩大它的规模，他说，在某种程度上，这是“因为我们希望增加学术和学生来源的多样性，也是因为工程专业学费更高。”
English is just one of numerous challenges for the foreigners that must be addressed in the transition year. Many say they are used to classes in which only the teachers speak, they do not call on students, students have few choices about what work they will do, and grades are based entirely on a few written exams.
在为期一年的过渡期中，外国学生必须克服大量挑战，英语仅仅是其中之一。很多人说自己习惯的教学方式是：只有老师讲；不会和学生交流；对于自己做什么作业，学生几乎没有选择；完全依靠几次笔试来判定成绩。
“This tradition of class discussion and activities is very strange to us,” said Yuqi Zhang, a student from China.
“我们不习惯这种课堂讨论和活动。”中国学生张玉绮（音译）说。
A recently arrived South Korean student, Min Jae Lee, said, “In American university, student is free, study attitude is free.”
一名刚来不久的韩国学生李民宰（音译）说，“美国大学的学生很自由，学习态度也很开放。”
Even taking notes can be an obstacle in a class taught in English, with frequent digressions that can make it harder to extract the central points. Instructors and students say that in many cultures, students are largely expected to repeat information given by the authorities, and they have to learn Western views of plagiarism and attribution.
在用英语授课的课堂上，甚至连记笔记都有可能成为障碍，因为经常出现一些与主题无关的讨论，学生更难提炼出关键要点。教师和学生们表示，在很多文化中，学生的职责主要是复述讲授者提供的信息，他们还必须了解西方对抄袭和署名权的观念。
Into Oregon State has a 12-person student care team that offers workshops and personal counseling on cultural issues that go far beyond the academic: dating etiquette, notions of personal space and privacy, driving and drinking laws, attitudes toward mental health, body language, and standards of interaction with peers, faculty members or even, if needed, the police.
INTO俄勒冈州立大学项目有一个学生辅导团队，由12个人组成。该团队在远远超出学业范畴的文化议题方面为学生提供团队培训和个人辅导，内容包括约会礼仪、个人空间和隐私观念、驾驶和饮酒法律、对精神健康的态度、身体语言，跟同伴、教师，以及必要情况下跟警察交流的规范等。
The most prestigious American schools have no shortage of foreign applicants and have their pick of the best. But most colleges and universities are relatively unknown worldwide and lack the resources to do overseas recruiting. And while the supply of students abroad who want an American education is immense, the number who are actually prepared for it is much more limited.
最负盛名的美国高校不乏外国申请者，它们可以从中挑选最优秀的。但是，大多数美国高校在其他国家的名气都相对有限，缺乏开展海外招聘的资源。虽然希望接受美国教育的外国留学生数量庞大，真正做好了入学准备的人却少得多。
A number of for-profit companies have stepped into that breach, offering recruitment services or college preparatory boot camps, but a handful offer something more ambitious, working with American colleges to create bridge programs for foreigners, a more common practice in Britain and Australia. Six years ago, there were no programs of that kind in the United States, but now at least 15 American universities have them, working with companies like Into and Study Group, both based in Britain; Navitas, an Australian company; and Kaplan Inc., with more scheduled to come on line.
一些以营利为目的的公司已经在着手填补这个缺口，它们为客户提供招聘服务或大学预备训练营，但有几家公司提供的服务更加深入，它们与美国大学合作，为外国学生推出过渡项目，这种做法在英国和澳大利亚比较普遍。六年前，美国还完全没有这样的项目，现在则至少有15所美国大学在开展这种项目，而且还有更多的项目将要推出。这些高校的合作方包括英国的INTO和学习集团(Study Group)，澳大利亚的纳维集团(Navitas)，以及卡普兰公司(Kaplan Inc)。
The trend of colleges’ hiring private companies for new functions has been underway for decades. Few colleges, for example, run their own dining halls anymore, and many campus bookstores have become outposts of national chains.
院校雇用私营公司来提供新服务的趋势已经有几十年的历史。例如，自己经营食堂的高校如今已经极为罕见，很多校园书店已经经营起了全国性的连锁店。
“But this is an additional leap because it’s much closer to our core mission,” said Peter N. Stearns, provost of George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., which recently announced an agreement with Into. He and other administrators say universities have tread cautiously with this particular strain of outsourcing, worried about ceding control of curriculum or admissions, or watering down either academics or the caliber of the student body.
“但是，这种合作很不一样，因为它更接近我们的核心任务。”乔治梅森大学(George Mason University)的教务长彼得·N·斯特恩斯(Peter N. Stearns)说，该校位于弗吉尼亚州的费尔法克斯，最近宣布与INTO签订了一项协议。斯特恩斯等管理人员说，高校对这种类型的外包服务很谨慎，担心这会让学校在课程和招生工作上失去控制权，还有可能拉低学术水平和学生的整体水准。
“Into approached us five years ago, but we decided to build our own program, which in retrospect was probably a mistake,” Dr. Stearns said. “We’re pleased with what we’ve got, but it’s small, 125 students. We want to do it on a much bigger scale, and we’ve come to the conclusion that we can’t.”
“INTO五年前就和我们接洽过，但我们决定自己开设项目，现在回想起来，那个决定可能是错误的。”斯特恩斯博士说。“我们对结果很满意，但它的规模很小，只有125名学生。我们想大大扩大规模，结果发现完全靠自己的力量是不行的。”
The private companies have recruitment operations around the world, so they can find students, screen them for quality, direct them to Western schools they might not have heard of, and provide support services on campus. The programs vary in structure, duration and revenue-sharing arrangements. In Into’s program, the universities control the academic side, providing the curriculum and employing the professors, and the students attend for at least a full academic year before enrolling in the university.
这些私营公司在全球各地设有招生机构，这样它们就可以找到学生，考察他们的素质，引导他们进入一些他们可能从未听说过的西方学校，并提供校园支持服务。这些项目在结构、持续时间和收入分成方案上各有不同。就INTO的项目来说，高校需要负责管理学生的学业，提供课程和聘请教授，而学生在正式入读大学之前，至少需要在这个项目中就读整整一学年。