THE latest results in the Program for International Student Assessment, or PISA, which compare how well 15-year-olds in 65 cities and countries can apply math, science and reading skills to solve real-world problems were released last week, and it wasn’t pretty for the home team. Andreas Schleicher, who manages PISA, told the Department of Education: “Three years ago, I came here with a special report benchmarking the U.S. against some of the best performing and rapidly improving education systems. Most of them have pulled further ahead, whether it is Brazil that advanced from the bottom, Germany and Poland that moved from adequate to good, or Shanghai and Singapore that moved from good to great. The math results of top-performer Shanghai are now two-and-a-half school years ahead even of those in Massachusetts — itself a leader within the U.S.”
上周，国际学生评估项目（Program for International Student Assessment，简称PISA）的最新结果公布了出来，美国队成绩可不好。PISA在全球65个城市和国家，衡量15岁学生运用数学、科学、阅读技能解决真实问题的能力有多强。PISA项目的主管安德里亚斯·施莱谢尔(Andreas Schleicher)对联邦教育部(Department of Education)表示：“三年前我来这里时给出了一份专题报告，将美国对比某些成绩最好、而且快步改善的教育体系。它们中很多已经有了更大的进步，无论是从最低程度前进的巴西，还是从尚可提高到良好的德国和波兰，或者是从良好进步到优秀的上海和新加坡。表现最佳的上海，它的数学成绩如今已经比马萨诸塞州领先2.5个学年了。而马萨诸塞州在美国名列前茅。”
Not good. We’re now in an era in which globalization and the information technology revolution have merged to drastically shrink what was the basis of our middle class for so many years: the “high-wage, middle-skilled” job. In a less integrated and less automated world of walls, where unions held more sway, many Americans could live an average middle-class lifestyle with average skills. In today’s hyperconnected world without walls — when more Indians, Chinese, computers, robots and software can perform more average blue-collar and white-collar jobs — the only high-wage jobs are increasingly high-skill jobs. “Over the last decade, job growth in the industrialized world has almost exclusively been at the top end of the PISA skill distribution,” explained Schleicher, “while routine cognitive skills, the kinds of things that are easy to teach but also easy to digitize and outsource, have seen the steepest decline in demand.”
这可不妙。我们当下所处的时代，全球化和信息技术革命共同作用极大地削减了“高工资、中等技能”的工作岗位，而这在很多年里都一直是美国中产阶级的根基。在一个全球融合没有那么充分、自动化没有那么普遍的相互隔离的世界，工会有更大的影响力，许多美国人可以靠中等的技能享受普通中产阶级的生活方式。然而在当今高度互联、没有隔离的世界，更多印度人、中国人、电脑、机器人、软件可以完成更多普通的蓝领和白领工作，硕果仅存的高薪岗位越来越需要高技能。“过去十年，工业化国家就业岗位的增长，几乎完全是在PISA技能分布最高端发生的，”施莱谢尔说。“而常规的认知技能，也就是很容易就能教授，但也很容易数字化和外包的技能，需求却出现了最大的下降。”
President Obama noted last week that this is one reason that the top 10 percent in America now takes home half of our national income, up from a third in 1979. One response is to raise the minimum wage and provide national health care. I hope both work, but neither will solve the problem. “Since the link between skills, jobs and growth is becoming ever tighter, it will be harder and harder for governments to address inequalities through redistribution,” argues Schleicher.
奥巴马总统上周提到，现在美国收入最高的10%人口之所以获得了国民收入的一半，与1979年的三分之一相比出现提高，这就是其中一个原因。一项应对是提高最低工资、提供全国性医疗保障。我希望这两项措施都能奏效，但无论哪一项都不能解决问题。“由于技能、就业和增长之间的联系正在变得越来越紧密，政府通过财富再分配来应对不平等问题会越来越难，”施莱谢尔说。
To his credit, Obama has also been calling for more investment in preschool, tech-ed and affordable colleges, but Republicans will only talk about tax cuts. Tax cuts alone won’t cut it either. Our kids face three big adjustments. First, to be in the middle class, they will need to be constantly improving their skills over their lifetime. Second, to do that, they will need a lot more self-motivation. The “digital divide” will soon disappear. Fairly soon, virtually everyone will have a screen and an Internet connection. In that world, argues futurist Marina Gorbis, the big divide will be “the motivational divide” — who has the self-motivation, grit and persistence to take advantage of all the free or cheap online tools to create, collaborate and learn. And third, countries that thrive the most will be the H.I.E.’s — the high imagination-enabling countries — that attract and enable talent to be constantly spinning off new ideas and start-ups, the source of most new good jobs.
奥巴马还呼吁对学前教育、科技教育和平价高校加大投资力度，这值得认可。但共和党人却只肯讨论减税，但单靠减税并不能解决问题。我们的孩子们面临着三项重大改变。首先，要想进入中产阶级，就需要一生都不断地改善技能。其次，要想做到这一点，他们需要更强的自我激励。“数字鸿沟”(digital divide)很快就会消失，不久以后几乎每个人都会有电子屏幕和互联网连接。未来学家玛丽娜·戈尔比斯(Marina Gorbis)阐述道，在那样一个世界，巨大的鸿沟将是“积极性的鸿沟”(motivational divide)，也就是要看谁有积极性、毅力和决心，利用免费或廉价的在线工具创造、协作、学习。第三，最生机勃勃的国家将是那些能高度激发想象力的国家，它们能够吸引人才，并促使人才不断地产生新想法、建立新的初创企业，大多数新增的高质量就业岗位都来自这些企业。
So now let’s look at the latest PISA. It found that the most successful students are those who feel real “ownership” of their education. In all the best performing school systems, said Schleicher, “students feel they personally can make a difference in their own outcomes and that education will make a difference for their future.” The PISA research, said Schleicher, also shows that “students whose parents have high expectations for them tend to have more perseverance, greater intrinsic motivation to learn.” The highest performing PISA schools, he added, all have “ownership” cultures — a high degree of professional autonomy for teachers in the classrooms, where teachers get to participate in shaping standards and curriculum and have ample time for continuous professional development. So teaching is not treated as an industry where teachers just spew out and implement the ideas of others, but rather is “a profession where teachers have ownership of their practice and standards, and hold each other accountable,” said Schleicher.
现在我们再来看最近的PISA结果。研究发现，成绩最好的学生是那些真实地感觉到对自己的教育拥有“自主权”的学生。施莱谢尔说，在所有表现最出色的教育体系里，“学生们都察觉，他们自己能够对自己的学习成绩产生影响，而且教育能够对他们的未来产生影响。”施莱谢尔说，PISA的研究还显示出，“父母对其有很高期望的学生，往往也更有毅力，学习的内在动力也更强。”他还说，在PISA测评中成绩最好的学校，都有一种“自主权”的文化——教师在课堂上有很高的专业自主权，教师能参与制定教学标准和课程，也有充足的时间继续职业发展。因而施莱谢尔说，教学没有被当做一个教师仅仅进行大量灌输，执行别人想法的行当，而是一个“教师对他们的工作和教学标准都有自主权，能够互相问责的职业”。
We’re going through a huge technological transformation in the middle of a recession. It requires a systemic response. Democrats who protect teachers’ unions that block reforms to give teachers more ownership and accountability, and who refuse to address long-term entitlement spending that threatens to deprive us of funds to invest in the young, are harming our future. Republicans who block investments in things like early education and immigration reform — today we educate the world’s top talent in our colleges and then send them back to their home countries — are harming our future.
我们正在经济衰退中经历一场巨大的技术变革，需要做出系统性的应对。教师工会对向教师赋予更大自主权，同时要求更多问责的改革予以阻挠。保护教师工会的民主党人其实是在损害我们的未来。长期福利开支恐怕会影响我们向年轻一代投资的资金，不肯着手解决长期福利开支问题的民主党人也是在损害我们的未来。那些阻挠对早期教育等事宜进行投资的共和党人，以及阻挠移民改革——现在美国的大学为全世界最优秀的人才提供教育，之后又把他们送回祖国——的共和党人也在损害我们的未来。
Conservatives need to think differently about the near-term safety nets we need to ease some people through this period, and liberals need to think more seriously about how we incentivize and unleash risk-takers to start new companies that create growth, wealth and good jobs. To have more employees, we need more employers. Just redividing a slow-growing pie will not sustain the American dream.
保守派需要重新思考短期的安全网，我们需要那些福利在这个阶段缓解一些人的痛苦。自由派也需要更严肃地考虑，我们该怎么激励和解放热衷冒险的人建立新公司，进而创造增长、财富和高质量的就业岗位。要想有更多人就业，就需要有更多雇主。只是重新划分增长迟缓的大饼，并不能维系美国梦。