MIAMI — Captive diners know that a good meal is hard to find.
迈阿密——身不由己的食客都知道，要吃上一顿好饭可不容易。
Airplane passengers, for instance, have been known to order kosher meals, even if they are not Jewish, in the hope of getting a fresher, tastier, more tolerable tray of food. It turns out that prison inmates are no different.
比如飞机上的乘客就有点犹太洁食的风气，哪怕他们并非犹太人，他们希望这样能吃到更新鲜、美味、比较可以接受的食品。原来，监狱里的囚犯也是这样。
Florida is now under a court order to begin serving kosher food to eligible inmates, a routine and court-tested practice in most states. But state prison officials expressed alarm recently over the surge in prisoners, many of them gentiles, who have stated an interest in going kosher.
根据一条法庭判令，佛罗里达州现在要开始向符合要求的囚犯提供洁食了，这在大多数州都是已经是常规的、经过法庭判定的做法。然而近来囚犯中对洁食感兴趣的人剧增，其中包括很多非犹太人，这引起了州监狱官员的警惕。
Their concern: The cost of religious meals is four times more than the standard fare, said Michael D. Crews, who is expected to be confirmed as secretary of the Department of Corrections in March.
有望在3月获批担任狱政局(Department of Corrections)局长的迈克尔·D·克鲁斯(Michael D. Crews)说，他们的担忧在于，宗教餐食的成本高出标准菜肴四倍。
“The last number I saw Monday was 4,417,” Mr. Crews said of inmate requests at his recent confirmation hearing before a State Senate committee. “Once they start having the meals, we could see the number balloon.”
在近日的一个州参议院委员会的核准听证会上，克鲁斯在提及洁食申请时说，“我在周一看到的最新数据是4417人。一旦他们开始得到这种餐食，我们会看到这个数字暴涨。”
To which, Senator Greg Evers, the Republican chairman of the Senate Criminal Justice Committee remarked: “Is bread and water considered kosher? Just a thought. Just a thought.”
参议院刑事司法委员会共和党主席格雷格·埃弗斯(Greg Evers)参议员发言说：“面包和水是洁食么？我就是一说。就是一说。”
Florida, a state with a substantial Jewish population and the third-largest prison system, stopped serving a religious diet to inmates in 2007, saying it cost too much and was unfair to other prisoners. Several inmates have challenged the move with little success. Last year, though, the United States Department of Justice sued Florida for violating a 2000 law designed to protect inmates’ religious freedom. The federal judge in the case issued a temporary injunction in December, forcing the state to begin serving kosher meals by July until the issue is decided at trial. Florida is one of only 15 states that do not offer inmates a kosher diet systemwide.
有可观的犹太人口和第三大监狱系统的佛罗里达在2007年开始停止向囚犯供应宗教餐食，称那样做的成本过高，而且对其他囚犯不公平。多名囚犯对此发起了挑战，但收效甚微。然而去年美国司法部(United States Department of Justice)起诉佛罗里达，称其违反了2000年颁发的一部囚犯宗教自由保护法律。负责该案的联邦法官在去年12月发出一个临时禁制令，强迫佛罗里达在7月前开始供应符合洁食规范的餐食，直到法庭就该问题做出审判裁决。佛罗里达州是15个尚未开始向整个监狱系统内的囚犯供应洁食的州之一。
Kosher food in prisons has long served as fodder for lawsuits around the country, with most courts coming down firmly on the side of inmates. As long as inmates say they hold a sincere belief in Judaism — a deeply forgiving standard — they are entitled to kosher meals, even if takes a little chutzpah to make the request.
在监狱内供应洁食的问题一直是各州的一个诉讼之源，法庭在这些诉讼中大都坚决地站在囚犯一边。只要囚犯称，他有虔诚的犹太教信仰——这是一个非常宽松的标准——就有权享用洁食，虽然提出这个要求是需要一点点“厚脸皮”精神的。
“Florida is an outlier,” said Eric Rassbach, deputy general counsel for the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, which has represented inmates around the country. “It’s a holdout. I don’t know why it’s being a holdout. It is strange that Florida, of all places, is placing a special burden on Jewish inmates. It’s just stubbornness.”
“佛罗里达是个异类，”贝克特宗教自由基金(Becket Fund for Religious Liberty)副总法律顾问埃里克·拉斯巴赫(Eric Rassbach)说，这家机构代理着全国各地的囚犯客户。“这是食古不化。我不知道为什么它要这样。怎么偏偏佛罗里达反而要对犹太囚犯施加一个特别的负担呢。这根本就是顽固。”
In Florida’s prison system. which faces a $58 million deficit, money is the easy answer for the battle against kosher food. The cost of three kosher meals in Florida is $7 a day, a big jump from the $1.54 for standard meals, Mr. Crews said. In New York State, where 1,500 inmates out of about 56,000 keep kosher, the cost of a kosher meal is $5 a person. In California, where some prisons have kosher kitchens, the price tag is $8, and the meals are served to 0.7 percent of about 120,000 inmates.
佛罗里达监狱系统面临5800万美元（约合人民币3.5亿元）的赤字，因此在抗拒洁食供应的过程中，钱就成了一个方便的回应。克鲁斯说，在佛罗里达，三餐供应洁食的成本为7美元，比标准餐食的1.54美元高出很多。在纽约州的5.6万名囚犯中有1500人是保持洁食的，一顿合规餐食的成本是每人5美元。在加利福尼亚的一些监狱有合规厨房，价码是8美元，在大约12万囚犯中有0.7%是保持洁食的。
Last April, facing an inmate lawsuit, Florida began a pilot program for the religious diet at Union Correctional Facility near Jacksonville. Initially, some 250 inmates signed up, Mr. Crews said. But once other inmates spied the individually boxed lunches, 863 expressed a sudden interest in keeping kosher.
去年4月，面临一宗囚犯诉讼的佛罗里达开始在杰克逊威尔附近的尤宁监狱(Union Correctional Facility)开始试验宗教餐食方案。克鲁斯说一开始有约250名囚犯报名。但是在别的囚犯窥探了单独包装的午餐盒后，忽然间有863人表达了对奉行洁食教规的兴趣。
Prison officials began to fret that if those numbers held, the cost of the kosher program could reach $54.1 million statewide. “You are talking about a lot of money,” Mr. Crews said.
监狱官员开始担心，一旦保持在这个水平，全州洁食供应的成本可达5410万美元。“这可是很大一笔钱，”克鲁斯说。
But lawyers and chaplains said prison officials were inflating the numbers as a scare tactic, a common move in some states. “They are trying to make the problem bigger than it is,” Mr. Rassbach said.
但是律师和监狱神职人员称狱方在夸大数据，这在一些州里是常见的手段。拉斯巴赫说，“他们在试图把问题放大。”
In a world of few choices, the meals are a novelty, a chance to break from the usual ritual of prison life. Others believe the kosher turkey cutlets and spaghetti and meatballs simply taste better. But some see it as a safer bet.
在一个几乎没什么选择的世界里，一日三餐就成了新鲜事，一个打破监狱生活惯常模式的机会。还有的人认为犹太教的火鸡排和意大利面和肉丸就是好吃一些。不过有些人是觉得这是个更安全的选择。