WASHINGTON — Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. is resigning but will remain in office until a successor is nominated and confirmed, the Justice Department said Thursday.
华盛顿——美国司法部(Justice Department)周四宣布，司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)打算辞职，不过在提名继任者并得到参议院批准之前，他仍将继续履职。
Mr. Holder, the 82nd attorney general and the first African-American to serve in that position, had previously said he planned to leave office by the end of this year.
霍尔德是美国第82任司法部长，也是担任这一职务的第一位非裔美国人。他之前曾表示要在今年年底前离开司法部。
The resignation was officially announced in a formal ceremony in the State Dining Room at the White House, with Mr. Obama hailing Mr. Holder’s accomplishments and praising his “deep and abiding fidelity” to the idea of equal justice under the law.
他辞职的消息是在白宫国家宴会厅(State Dining Room)的一次仪式上正式宣布的。奥巴马对霍尔德的成就表示了赞赏，并称赞他“深刻而坚定地遵循了”依照法律推动司法公正的理念。
“I chose him to serve as attorney general because he believes as I do that justice is not just an abstract theory. It’s a living and breathing principle,” Mr. Obama said. He said Mr. Holder used the law to make people’s lives better. “That’s why I made him America’s lawyer, the people’s lawyer.”
“我选择让他担任司法部长，是因为他与我一样，也相信正义不仅是一个抽象的理论。它是一条有生命、有呼吸的准则，”奥巴马说。他表示，霍尔德利用法律改善了人们的生活状态。“这就是我任命他担任美国的律师、担任民众的律师的原因。”
Particularly in President Obama’s second term, Mr. Holder, 63, has been the most prominent liberal voice of the administration, leading its push for same-sex marriage and voting rights.
尤其值得一提的是，在奥巴马的第二个任期内，63岁的霍尔德一直是政府最重要的自由派声音，他带头推动了同性婚姻和选举权方面的变革。
After the recent shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a white police officer, Mr. Holder volunteered to go to Ferguson, Mo., as the administration’s emissary.
最近，在一名白人警察枪杀了一名未携带武器的黑人青年之后，霍尔德自愿作为奥巴马政府代表，前往密苏里州弗格森。
A senior White House official said the president was “a long way” from announcing Mr. Holder’s replacement. Frequently mentioned candidates for the job include: Kathryn Ruemmler, the former White House counsel; Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts; Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr.; former Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan; Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island; and Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney in Brooklyn.
一名白宫高官称，奥巴马离公布霍尔德的继任者还有“很长一段距离”。这份工作经常被人提到的候选人包括：前白宫法律顾问凯瑟琳·鲁姆勒(Kathryn Ruemmler)、马萨诸塞州州长德瓦尔·派崔克(Deval Patrick)、联邦总检察长小唐纳德·B·韦里利(Donald B. Verrilli Jr.)、密歇根州前州长詹妮弗·M·格兰霍姆(Jennifer M. Granholm)、罗得岛州民主党参议员谢尔登·怀特豪斯(Sheldon Whitehouse)，以及驻布鲁克林的联邦检察官洛蕾塔·E·林奇(Loretta E. Lynch)。
The Justice Department said Mr. Holder finalized his plans to leave in an hourlong conversation with Mr. Obama at the White House over Labor Day weekend. A formal announcement was scheduled for Thursday afternoon at the White House.
司法部称，劳动节(Labor Day)的周末，霍尔德在白宫与奥巴马进行了长达一小时的谈话，他在谈话中最终确定了离任计划，并安排在周四下午在白宫正式宣布。
Mr. Holder is a former federal prosecutor and Superior Court judge in Washington and served as the deputy attorney general under Attorney General Janet Reno.
霍尔德曾担任联邦检察官和华盛顿最高法院法官，还曾在珍妮特·雷诺(Janet Reno)担任司法部长时担任司法部副部长。
A child of the civil rights era, Mr. Holder was shaped by images of violence in Selma, Ala. He joined sit-ins at Columbia University, where protesters renamed an office after Malcolm X. He has frequently spoken in personal terms about civil rights, including about his experiences as a prosecutor in Washington and as a college student, when he was stopped by the police.
霍尔德成长于民权运动时期，阿拉巴马州塞尔玛的暴力景象对他产生了塑造作用。他曾参与哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)的静坐抗议。在那里，抗议者们当时以马尔科姆·X (Malcolm X)的名字给一个办公室重新命名。他经常以亲身经历谈论民权问题，而且还谈到了他在华盛顿担任检察官，以及上大学时被警察拦住的经历。
As attorney general, he has pushed to change what he sees as fundamental inequities in the criminal justice system. He told prosecutors not to seek long sentences for low-level crime, and he pushed to eliminate those sentences for nonviolent drug crimes. He has joined with liberal Democrats and libertarian-minded Republicans to advocate for the most sweeping liberalization of sentencing laws since the beginning of the War on Drugs.
作为司法部长，对于自己在刑事司法体系中看到的根本性的不平等，他努力推动变革。他要求检察官，不要对程度较轻的罪行寻求处以长期监禁，而且还推动消除非暴力毒品犯罪受到的刑罚。他还与自由派民主党人，以及倾向自由意志论的共和党人一道，倡导量刑法的自由化，这是“反毒品战争”(War on Drugs)以来规模最大的一次。
Early this week, Mr. Holder announced that the federal prison population declined this year for the first time since 1980. He projected the decline would continue for the next two years.
本周早些时候，霍尔德宣布，今年联邦监狱的服刑人数出现了1980年以来的首次下降。他预计未来两年将持续下降。
But his record on civil liberties has earned him fewer accolades. He authorized subpoenas directed at journalists and approved the Central Intelligence Agency’s killing of Anwar al-Awlaki, an American citizen working with the Al Qaeda branch in Yemen. Mr. Holder signed off on the National Security Agency’s authority to sweep up the phone records of millions of Americans not charged with any crime.
但他在公民自由方面的表现，未能给自己赢得这么多称赞。他曾授权传唤记者，并批准中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)击毙在基地组织(Al Qaeda)也门分支效力的美国公民安瓦尔·奥拉基(Anwar al-Awlaki)。霍尔德还批准国家安全局(National Security Agency)获取数百万美国民众的电话记录，而这些民众并未因任何罪名而受过指控。
Mr. Holder was among Mr. Obama’s first nominees to the cabinet. The president-elect announced his selection on the same day he announced his choice of Hillary Rodham Clinton to be secretary of state.
霍尔德是奥巴马最先宣布的内阁提名人选之一。在宣布选择希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)出任国务卿的同一天，尚未履职的奥巴马就公布了对霍尔德的提名。
The new attorney general quickly became an outspoken voice on issues that remained sensitive for a first-term president, especially race. While Mr. Obama only rarely confronted issues of race and discrimination, Mr. Holder emerged as a forceful advocate in those areas.
很快，新任司法部长就在一些问题上发出了直言不讳的声音。对尚在第一个任期内的总统而言，这些问题还颇为敏感，比如种族问题。尽管奥巴马很少面对种族和歧视问题，但霍尔德却成了这些领域的有力倡导者。
Mr. Holder was also a lightening rod, attracting partisan venom in Congress that might otherwise have been aimed more squarely at the president. He was attacked by critics in the wake of a botched gun program along the border with Mexico. Republican lawmakers in the House held Mr. Holder in contempt of Congress.
霍尔德也充当避雷针，成为了国会里党派怨恨的目标，否则这些怨恨可能会更明确地指向总统。在美墨边境沿线的一个枪支计划搞砸后，霍尔德遭到了批评人士的抨击。众议院的共和党议员则认定霍尔德藐视国会。
With Mr. Holder’s imminent departure, Mr. Obama must now find a successor who can follow through on Mr. Holder’s initiatives for the remainder of the president’s second term.
随着霍尔德即将离任，奥巴马必须找到一名接替者，从而在他第二届任期剩余的时间里坚持霍尔德发起的行动。
Mr. Holder’s successor will play a central role shaping the legal policies behind the war Mr. Obama is waging in Iraq and Syria. The new attorney general will also have a big hand in helping enact new executive orders that Mr. Obama has announced, including a change in immigration policy that is expected after the midterm elections.
奥巴马在伊拉克和叙利亚发动战争之际，在制定其背后的法律政策方面，霍尔德的继任者将起到关键的作用。新任司法部长的其他重要任务还包括，协助颁布规章，落实奥巴马宣布的新行政命令，包括预计在中期选举后推行的移民政策变动。