President Obama has warned that Iran is not open for business, even as the United States has loosened some of its punishing economic sanctions as part of an interim nuclear pact.
奥巴马总统曾警告说，伊朗的商业环境还没有开放，尽管由于一个临时核协议的签订，美国已经放松了对伊朗的一些惩治性经济制裁。
Yet, on Tuesday morning, Iran had an unlikely visitor: a plane, owned by the Bank of Utah, a community bank in Ogden that has 13 branches throughout the state. Bearing a small American flag on its tail, the aircraft was parked in a highly visible section of  Mehrabad Airport in Tehran.
然而本周二上午，一个出人意料的客人抵达了伊朗：犹他银行(Bank of Utah)的一架飞机。犹他银行是奥格登的一家社区银行，在该州拥有13家分行。这架飞机停在了德黑兰梅赫拉巴德机场一个非常显眼的位置上，机尾处印有一面小小的美国国旗。
But from there, the story surrounding the plane, and why it was in Iran — where all but a few United States and European business activities are prohibited — grows more mysterious.
但是此后，跟这架飞机相关的故事，以及它抵达伊朗的原因，变得越发神秘起来。美国和欧洲几乎禁止了跟该国的一切商业活动。
While federal aviation records show the plane is held in a trust by the Bank of Utah, Brett King, one of its executives in Salt Lake City, said, “We have no idea why that plane was at that airport.”
虽然联邦航空记录显示，这家飞机属于犹他银行的一个信托基金，但该公司在盐湖城的高管布雷特·金(Brett King)说：“我们完全不知道为什么那架飞机会在那个机场。”
He said that the Bank of Utah acted as a trustee for investors who have a financial stake in the plane and that the bank was investigating further.
他说，犹他银行是一些投资者的受托人，这些投资者拥有这架飞机的财务股权。他还说该银行正在对此事进行深入调查。
The Federal Aviation Administration said it had no information about the investors in the aircraft or who was operating it. Officials waiting at the gangway at Mehrabad Airport said only that the aircraft was “V.I.P.”
美国联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)表示，它有没有这架飞机投资者的信息，也不知道正在操作它的人是谁。而在梅赫拉巴德机场舷梯处守候的官员们只说这架飞机是“贵宾”。
The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, the federal government’s primary enforcer of sanctions against Iran, declined to comment on the plane’s presence there. Under United States law, any American aircraft would usually need prior approval from the department to go to Iran without violating a complicated patchwork of rules governing trade.
财政部外国资产控制办公室(Office of Foreign Assets Control)是联邦政府对伊制裁的主要实施机构，它拒绝就这架飞机出现在那里置评。根据美国法律，任何美国飞机在飞往伊朗之前，通常都需要得到这个办公室的批准，否则就会违反错综复杂的贸易规则。
In the case of this particular aircraft, powered by engines made by General Electric, the Commerce Department typically would have to grant its own clearance for American-made parts to touch down on Iranian soil.
另外这架飞机还采用了通用电气(GE)制造的发动机，而美国制造的零部件要进入伊朗境内，通常还必须获得美国商务部的授权。
Iranian officials also declined to comment on the purpose of the plane’s visit or passengers’ identities. A spokesman for Iran’s United Nations mission in New York, Hamid Babaei, said: “We don’t have any information in this regard. I refer you to the owner.”
伊朗官员也拒绝就该飞机此次行程的意图和乘客身份置评。伊朗驻联合国代表团发言人哈米德·巴巴埃(Hamid Babaei)说：“我们没有这方面的任何信息。我建议你去问机主。”
The tracking of planes has become a kind of global sport, as largely amateur photographers post thousands of images showing arrivals and departures in their attempts to chronicle flight paths.
追踪飞机位置已经成为了一种全球性的消遣活动，这很大程度上是因为业余摄影者为了记录自己的飞行路线，在网上张贴了数以千计的抵港和离港照片。
But this week’s spotting by a New York Times reporter in Tehran carries particular intrigue because it involves Iran, a country still effectively shunned by the global financial system.
但本周由《纽约时报》驻德黑兰记者发现的这架飞机具有特殊的意义，因为它与伊朗有关。这个国家事实上仍然被全球金融系统排除在外。
Even some former federal officials, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the very presence of an American-flagged aircraft parked in broad daylight suggested its flight had been approved as part of a legitimate business trip. What is more, they said, the easily identifiable plane was not likely to be part of a covert diplomatic mission.
甚至连一些前联邦官员也说，一架印有美国国旗的飞机光天化日停在那里，这意味着该飞机的飞行是经过批准的合法商业旅行。这些官员在发表评论时要求匿名。他们说，此外，这架可以轻易辨识身份的飞机也不太可能属于某个秘密的外交使命。
The secrecy surrounding the plane is compounded by federal aviation regulations that can make it virtually impossible to determine who was flying it.
由于一些联邦航空规定，几乎不可能确定谁在驾驶这架飞机。这进一步加深了与这架飞机有关的疑团。
The private plane, like thousands of similar ones, is owned through a trust — a complex legal structure often established to help foreign individuals or corporations invest in planes that can fly freely within the United States. Aside from that benefit, the structure enables investors and operators to remain largely anonymous to the public. The trustee — in this case, the Bank of Utah — is the sole entity recorded as owner in a vast database maintained by the Federal Aviation Administration.
与数以千计的类似飞机一样，这架私人飞机也是通过一只信托基金所有的。信托基金是一种复杂的法律实体，通常是为了帮助国外的个人和企业投资在美国境内自由飞行的飞机而设立的。除了这一服务，信托公司还能确保投资者和运营者的身份基本上不被外界得知。在联邦航空管理局保存的庞大数据库中，被记录为飞机机主的只有受托人——在本文例子中，也就是犹他银行。
The Bank of Utah is listed as a trustee for 1,169 aircraft, ranging from Boeing 747s to single-engine Cessnas, according to a review by The New York Times of the database. The Bank of Utah acts as a trustee for more planes than just about any other bank, the review shows.
《纽约时报》对数据的审核发现，犹他银行是1169架飞机的受托人，这些飞机既包括波音747，也包括单引擎的塞斯纳(Cessnas)。审核报告显示，以犹他银行作为受托人的飞机数量大于其他所有银行。
Mr. King, who helps run the bank’s trust services business, said the bank had no “operational control” or “financial exposure” to any of the planes.
参与运营该银行信托服务业务的金说，银行对其中的任何飞机都没有“操作控制权”或“金融敞口”。
He said he was not allowed to disclose the identity of the plane’s investors. “As fiduciary, we must keep information confidential when it comes to the beneficiary,” Mr. King said.
他说，他无权披露飞机投资者的身份。“作为受信托者，在牵扯到受益人的时候，我们必须对信息保密，”金说。