Popular weight-loss and workout supplements on sale in hundreds of vitamin shops across the nation contain a chemical nearly identical to amphetamine, the powerful stimulant, and pose dangers to the health of those who take them, according to a new study. The Canadian health authorities in December called the chemical, BMPEA, “a serious health risk,” and pulled supplements that contain it from store shelves.
一项新研究表明，目前在全美各地数百家维生素商店销售的多种广受欢迎的减肥和健身补充剂中含有一种几乎完全等同于苯丙胺（即安非他明，一种强力兴奋剂）的化学物质，可对服用者的健康造成危害。去年12月，加拿大卫生当局指出这种简称BMPEA的化学物质是“一个严重的健康风险”，并将含有该物质的补充剂撤下商店的货架。
The Food and Drug Administration documented two years ago that nine such supplements contained the same chemical, but never made public the names of the products or the companies that made them. Neither has it recalled the products nor issued a health alert to consumers as it has done with other tainted supplements. The F.D.A. said in a statement that its review of supplements containing the stimulant “does not identify a specific safety concern at this time.”
两年前，美国食品和药品监督管理局(Food and Drug Administration, F.D.A.)就已将九种含有这种化学物质的补充剂记录在案，但该机构既未公开这些产品的名称和生产它们的公司，也没有召回这些产品或像对待其他受污染的补充剂那样向消费者发布健康警报。F.D.A.在一份声明中表示，“目前还不能断定含有该兴奋剂的补充剂是一种安全隐患。”
But public health experts contend that the F.D.A.’s reluctance to act in this case is symptomatic of a broader problem. The agency is not effectively policing the $33 billion-a-year supplements industry in part because top agency regulators themselves come from the industry and have conflicts of interest, they say. In recent years, two of the agency’s top officials overseeing supplements — including one currently on the job — were former leaders of the largest supplement industry trade and lobbying group.
但公共卫生专家表示，F.D.A.不愿意对这件事采取行动，表明实际上还存在更广泛的问题。他们还说，该机构未能有效地监管年产值330亿美元的补充剂行业，部分原因在于这一最高监管机构的成员本身就来自该行业，因此会产生利益冲突。在最近的几年中，该机构监管补充剂行业的两名高级官员——其中一人现在仍在职——是补充剂行业最大的贸易和游说集团的前领导人。
Daniel Fabricant, who ran the agency’s division of dietary supplement programs from 2011 to 2014, had been a senior executive at that trade group, the Natural Products Association, which has spent millions of dollars lobbying to block new laws that would hold supplement makers to stricter standards. He left the F.D.A. last year and returned to the association as its chief executive. His current replacement at the F.D.A.’s supplement division also comes from the trade group.
在2011年至2014年间负责F.D.A.膳食补充计划的丹尼尔·法布里坎特(Daniel Fabricant)曾担任贸易集团天然产品协会(Natural Products Association)的高级主管，而该集团花费了数百万美元游说有关人员，以阻挠要求补充剂制造商遵守更严格标准的一项新法律的通过。去年，法布里坎特博士离开了F.D.A.，又回到了该协会担任首席执行官。但如今接替他掌管F.D.A.补充剂部门的官员同样来自该贸易集团。
“To have former officials in the supplement industry become the chief regulators of that industry at the F.D.A. is like the fox guarding the hen house,” said Michael F. Jacobson, the executive director of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer advocacy group.
消费者维权组织公共利益科学中心(Center for Science in the Public Interest)的执行董事迈克尔·F·雅各布森(Michael F. Jacobson)说：“让补充剂行业的前官员担任该行业最重要的监管者无异于让狐狸看守鸡窝。”
Dr. Fabricant disagreed, saying in an interview that having industry officials run the F.D.A.’s supplement division was “an incredible benefit to the agency.” He said that during his tenure, the division worked to get unsafe products off the market and issued a mandatory recall of a supplement involved in a deadly multistate outbreak of liver disease. “I did more there in three and a half years than was done in the 16 years prior,” he said.
法布里坎特博士并不以为然，他在接受采访时说，让本行业官员负责F.D.A.的补充剂部门可以给“该机构带来令人难以置信的益处”。他说，在他任职期间，该部门一直致力于将不安全的产品逐出市场，并强制召回了一种与波及多个州的致命性肝脏疾病爆发有关的补充剂。“在那三年半期间，我做的实事比之前16年加起来还要多，”他说。
The controversy comes at a time when the supplement industry is under increased scrutiny. Last week, 14 state attorneys general, led by Eric T. Schneiderman of New York, called on Congress to provide the F.D.A. with more power to regulate supplements. Mr. Schneiderman’s office in February accused four major retailers of selling contaminated herbal supplements, and one of the companies, GNC, has agreed to extensive new testing and quality control procedures for its store-brand herbal products.
上述争议的出现，正值补充剂行业面临更严格的监管之时。上周，以纽约州总检察长(New York Attorney General)埃里克·T·施奈德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)为首，14个州的总检察长联名呼吁国会(Congress)赋予F.D.A.更大的权力来规范补充剂行业。今年2月，施奈德曼先生的办公室指控四家大型零售商出售受到污染的草药类补充剂，其中的健安喜公司(GNC)已同意对其自有品牌的草药产品施行全面的新测试和质量控制程序。
The F.D.A. was the first to begin investigating products that turned out to contain BMPEA. As early as 2013, scientists at the agency said in an article published last year that they noticed many popular supplements listed among their ingredients a little-known plant called acacia rigidula, a shrub native to Mexico and southern Texas.
F.D.A.是首个对含有BMPEA的产品开展调查的机构。该机构的科学家在去年发表的一篇文章中称，早在2013年，他们就发现很多广受欢迎的补充剂的成分列表中都有一种鲜为人知的金合欢属植物：Acacia rigidula，一种原产于墨西哥和得克萨斯州南部的灌木。
The plant’s presence in so many supplements was a red flag, said Dr. Pieter A. Cohen, the lead author of the new study published Tuesday and an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School. He said it is not uncommon for companies to spike weight-loss and exercise supplements with amphetamine-like chemicals, then hide them on their labels under the names of obscure plants to give the impression they are natural botanical extracts.
周二发表的这项新研究的主要作者，哈佛医学院的助理教授、剑桥健康联盟(Cambridge Health Alliance)的内科医师彼得·A·科恩(Pieter A. Cohen)博士认为，这么多补充剂中都含有这种植物，这是一个危险信号。他还说，企业偷偷往减肥和健身补充剂中掺入苯丙胺类化学物质，然后在标签上用晦涩的植物名称来掩饰，好给人造成这些产品是天然植物提取物的假相，这种情况并不少见。
The F.D.A. tested 21 popular supplements that listed acacia rigidula on their labels and found nine of them tested positive for varying amounts of BMPEA, the agency reported last year in The Journal of Pharmaceutical and Biomedical Analysis. F.D.A. officials did not, however, name the specific products.
F.D.A.检测了21种在成分标签中列有Acacia rigidula的常见补充剂，发现其中九种含有不同含量的BMPEA，并在去年的《药物和生物医学分析杂志》(The Journal of Pharmaceutical and Biomedical Analysis)上报道了结果。然而，F.D.A.官员没有公布具体的产品名称。
Although BMPEA was first synthesized in the 1930s as a replacement for amphetamine, it was never introduced as a pharmaceutical drug and its side effects were never studied in humans.
虽然BMPEA在20世纪30年代首次合成，并用作苯丙胺的替代品，但它从未作为药物面世，其副作用也从未经过人体研究。
Under federal law, dietary supplements — with some exceptions — can contain only ingredients that are part of the food supply or that were already on the market before 1994. Dr. Cohen said that BMPEA has never been sold as a food or supplement, and as a result any product that contains it is considered adulterated, which would give the F.D.A. the authority to send warning letters to companies that add it to their supplements.
根据联邦法律，膳食补充剂（部分例外除外）只能包含可用于食品或者在1994年以前就已经上市的成分。科恩博士说，BMPEA从未作为食物或补充剂出售，因此任何含有该物质的产品都应被视为掺入了杂质，F.D.A.有权对在补充剂中添加该物质的公司发警告书。
It was only after trying unsuccessfully to find out from the F.D.A. which supplements contained BMPEA that Dr. Cohen and academics at other universities conducted their own tests, identifying the stimulant in 11 of 21 products. Their findings were published in the journal Drug Testing and Analysis.
科恩博士和其他大学的学者试图从F.D.A.处了解哪些补充剂中含有BMPEA，未果，只好自己动手检测，结果从21种产品中鉴别出11种含有兴奋剂。他们的研究结果发表在《药品测试与分析》(Drug Testing and Analysis)杂志上。
In December, the Canadian health authorities said they forced a recall of a supplement that lists acacia rigidula as an ingredient — JetFuel Superburn — after the product was found to contain BMPEA and another amphetamine-like stimulant. The Canadian government issued a public health alert about BMPEA to consumers: “Amphetamine stimulants can increase blood pressure, heart rate and body temperature; lead to serious cardiovascular complications (including stroke) at high doses; suppress sleep and appetite, and be addictive.”
去年12月，加拿大卫生当局表示，在发现成分列表中有Acacia rigidula的一种补充剂JetFuel Superburn中含有BMPEA和另一种苯丙胺类兴奋剂后，他们强制召回了该产品。加拿大政府向消费者发布了关于BMPEA的公共卫生警告：“苯丙胺类兴奋剂可提高血压、心率和体温；载高剂量下可导致中风等严重的心血管并发症；还可抑制睡眠和食欲，并具有成瘾性。”
As of Tuesday morning, three of the supplements — JetFuel Superburn, JetFuel T-300 and MX-LS7 — found in Dr. Cohen’s study to contain BMPEA were for sale at Vitamin Shoppe, one of the country’s largest retailers of supplements, with hundreds of locations. None list BMPEA as an ingredient. One of the products is the same one that the Canadian health authorities pulled from stores. Vitamin Shoppe did not respond to a request for comment.
截至周二上午，科恩博士的研究中发现的含有BMPEA的补充剂中有三种：JetFuel Superburn、JetFuel T-300和MX-LS7仍在全美最大的补充剂零售商之一，拥有数百家分店的维生素专柜(Vitamin Shoppe)出售。加拿大卫生当局要求下架的那一种产品也在其中。这些产品均未在成分列表中标示BMPEA。维生素专柜没有回应记者的置评请求。
The other supplements the study listed as containing BMPEA were Aro Black Series Burn, Black Widow, Dexaprine XR, Fastin-XR, Lipodrene Hardcore, Lipodrene Xtreme, Stimerex-ES and Yellow Scorpion.
该研究列出的其他含有BMPEA的补充剂为：Aro Black Series Burn、Black Widow、Dexaprine XR、Fastin-XR、Lipodrene Hardcore、Lipodrene Xtreme、Stimerex-ES和Yellow Scorpion。
But on Tuesday, one of the leading supplement industry trade groups, the Council for Responsible Nutrition, called on the F.D.A. “to enforce the law” and remove products containing BMPEA from the market “before there are serious health consequences.”
本周二，补充剂行业的主要贸易团体之一——“可靠营养品协会”(Council for Responsible Nutrition)呼吁F.D.A.“执法”，在“造成严重的健康后果之前”将含有BMPEA的产品从市场上清除出去。
Bastiaan Venhuis, a scientist who studies tainted supplements at the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment in the Netherlands, said that the physiological effects of BMPEA are most likely very similar to those of DMAA, an amphetamine-like stimulant that can cause heart attacks and strokes.
荷兰国家公共卫生和环境研究所(National Institute for Public Health and the Environment in the Netherlands)的研究受污染补充剂的科学家巴斯蒂安·芬海斯(Bastiaan Venhuis)说，BMPEA的生理效应极有可能与苯丙胺类兴奋剂DMAA（可引起心肌梗死和中风）相似。
Supplements containing DMAA were banned from military bases by the Department of Defense in 2011 after they were implicated in the deaths of two soldiers. The F.D.A. issued a health alert warning consumers about DMAA 16 months later — long after Australia, Britain, Canada and Sweden had banned it.
2011年，含有DMAA的补充剂涉嫌造成两名士兵死亡，从此美国国防部(Department of Defense)禁止在军事基地中使用此类补充剂。16个月后，F.D.A.向消费者发布了有关DMAA的健康警告——相比于澳大利亚、英国、加拿大和瑞典对此类产品颁布禁令的时间已经迟了很久。
“I think health authorities should be concerned,” Dr. Venhuis said of BMPEA.
芬海斯博士说：“我认为这(BMPEA)应该引起卫生当局的关注。”
Dr. Cohen said the F.D.A. appeared to be waiting for evidence that BMPEA was harming consumers. “If they wait long enough,” he said, “I suspect they will have that level of evidence to remove it from the market.”
科恩博士说，F.D.A.似乎还在等待着可表明BMPEA有害于消费者的证据。“如果他们等的时间够长的话，”他说，“我猜他们一定会得到足够的证据将它们下市的。”
Regulation of the supplements industry has long been contentious. Under a 1994 law, supplements are exempt from the rigorous oversight applied to prescription drugs and medical devices. They do not have to undergo federal reviews of their safety or effectiveness before they are sold to the public, and as a result tainted supplements are usually pulled from the market only after consumers are harmed.
长久以来，补充剂行业的监管一直饱受争议。1994年的法律规定，补充剂可以免受处方药品和医疗器械适用的那种严格监督。在向公众出售之前，它们的安全性或有效性无需接受联邦审查，因此通常也只有在消费者受到损害以后，才会将受污染的补充剂下市。
The Natural Products Association played a crucial role in the passage of that law — the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act — which was sponsored by Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, where many supplement companies are headquartered. Mr. Hatch has long been a top recipient of campaign contributions from the Natural Products Association, and his son, Scott Hatch, is a founding partner at a Washington firm that lobbies for the organization.
在众多补充剂公司总部云集的犹他州，共和党参议员奥林·G·哈奇(Orrin G. Hatch)提起了《膳食补充剂健康教育法》(Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act)。美国天然产品协会(Natural Products Association)在该法案的通过中发挥了至关重要的作用。哈奇先生长期以来都是来自天然产品协会的竞选献金的头号受益人，他的儿子斯科特·哈奇(Scott Hatch)是华盛顿的一家为该组织游说的公司的创始合伙人。
In 2013 and 2014, the Natural Products Association spent nearly $1.5 million lobbying the Food and Drug Administration, members of the House and Senate, and the Federal Trade Commission, according to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics. The trade association has lobbied against the Dietary Supplement Labeling Act, a bill that would require supplement labels to carry basic information about side effects and ingredients that could be harmful to children and pregnant women.
据无党派组织响应性政治中心(Center for Responsive Politics)称，2013年和2014年，天然产品协会仅在游说食品和药品监督管理局，众议院(House)、参议院(Senate)以及联邦贸易委员会(Federal Trade Commission)成员上就花了近150万美元。该贸易协会还游说人们反对《膳食补充剂标签法案》(Dietary Supplement Labeling Act)——一项要求补充剂产品在标签上标示关于其副作用的基本信息，以及可能危害儿童和孕妇的成分的法案。
Both the F.D.A. officials with industry ties came to the agency from senior positions at the Natural Products Association. Shortly before Dr. Fabricant left the F.D.A. in 2014 to return to the association, the F.D.A. hired another official from the group, Cara Welch. She is now the acting director of the agency’s supplement division. Dr. Cohen, who is also an internist at the Cambridge Health Alliance, said he repeatedly wrote to Dr. Welch asking what the agency was going to do about BMPEA, and that she did not respond.
F.D.A.的两名与补充剂行业有关的官员都曾在天然产品协会中担任要职。2014年，就在法布里坎特博士离开F.D.A.重返协会不久前，F.D.A.又从该组织中聘请了另一位官员卡拉·韦尔奇(Cara Welch)。她现在是F.D.A.补充剂部门的代理主任。科恩博士称自己曾多次写信询问韦尔奇博士F.D.A.打算对BMPEA采取哪些行动，但她始终没有回复。
Dr. Welch declined repeated requests for interviews. In a statement, Juli Putnam, an F.D.A. spokeswoman, said that the agency “has found that hiring experienced leaders with diverse backgrounds in public health, industry, academia, and science enriches the professional environment and leads to the best health policy outcomes for the American public.”
韦尔奇博士一再拒绝媒体的采访请求。F.D.A.的发言人尤利·帕特南(Juli Putnam)在一份声明中称，该机构“发现，从公共卫生、工业、学术界和科学界等不同领域中聘请经验丰富的领导者可充实机构的专业环境，为美国公众带来最佳的卫生政策成果”。
Before joining the F.D.A., Dr. Welch was the vice president of scientific and regulatory affairs at the Natural Products Association, where she was a staunch defender of the supplement industry. When JAMA, a leading medical journal, raised concerns in a 2011 editorial that the federal law allowed the supplements industry to police itself, Dr. Welch responded that the industry had “an excellent safety record.”
在加入F.D.A.之前，韦尔奇博士在天然产品协会担任科学和管理事务副总裁，也是补充剂行业的坚定捍卫者。2011年，顶尖医学杂志《美国医学会杂志》(JAMA)发表社论对联邦法律允许补充剂行业自我监管表示担忧，对此，韦尔奇博士回应说，该行业一直拥有“良好的安全信誉”，
“The industry itself supports and has implemented strong self-regulatory mechanisms,” she said in an industry news release at the time.
她还在当时的一次行业新闻发布会上表示：“该行业本身支持并已实施了强有力的自律机制。”
Ethicists disagree. “There are just too many other people who could have that job who don’t have these conflicts,” said Arthur L. Caplan, the head of the division of medical ethics at New York University Langone Medical Center.
伦理学家们并不同意这一点。纽约大学朗格尼医学中心(New York University Langone Medical Center)的医学伦理学部主任阿瑟·L·卡普兰(Arthur L. Caplan)说：“有太多其他的人也可以担任这项工作，而且还不会引起利益冲突。”
Public health experts said that the agency has moved too slowly when alerted to dangerous supplements. In February 2013, Dr. Kenneth R. Spaeth, the division chief of occupational and environmental medicine at North Shore University Hospital in New York, reported to the F.D.A. that 20 of his patients developed muscle aches, fatigue and liver damage after using a brand of B vitamins. Some female patients had stopped having their periods and started growing facial hair. He said he told the F.D.A. he suspected the vitamins were contaminated with anabolic steroids.
公共卫生专家指出，在提醒公众警惕有害的补充剂方面，F.D.A.动作太慢。2013年2月，纽约长岛北岸医院(North Shore University Hospital)职业和环境医学部主任肯尼思·R·施佩特(Kenneth R. Spaeth)博士向F.D.A.报告，他有20名病患在服用某品牌的B族维生素之后出现肌肉疼痛、疲劳和肝损伤。部分女性患者停经并开始长胡须。他告诉F.D.A.他怀疑该维生素受到了合成类固醇的污染。
Dr. Spaeth said he got no response for weeks and called the agency numerous times. He also sent multiple emails to Dr. Fabricant and other F.D.A. officials, pleading with them to get the vitamins off the market.
施佩特博士说，数周来，他还给该机构打过很多电话，也给法布里坎特博士和F.D.A.的其他官员发了数封电子邮件，请求他们将该维生素下市，但从未得到任何回应。
In response to a request under the Freedom of Information Act, the F.D.A. said it was “unable to locate” any records of Dr. Spaeth’s communications. Dr. Spaeth provided The New York Times with the emails.
应一根据《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information Act)提出的要求，F.D.A.回复称自己“找不到”施佩特博士与其进行过通讯的记录。但施佩特博士向《纽约时报》(The New York Times)提供了当时的电子邮件。
“I am hoping you folks are taking this seriously,” Dr. Spaeth wrote to Dr. Fabricant and other F.D.A. officials in an email on April 17, 2013. “I have 20 very worried patients and I have little to offer them. Particularly about what they’ve been exposed to and the possible long term risks.”
“我希望你们能认真对待这件事，”施佩特博士在2013年4月17日写给法布里坎特博士和其他F.D.A.官员的电子邮件中写道。“我有20位焦虑万分的患者，可我几乎为他们做不了什么，尤其是，关于他们所接触到的东西和可能的长期风险，我什么忙也帮不上。”
On July 26 of that year — nearly six months after Dr. Spaeth first contacted the F.D.A. — the agency issued a public health alert warning consumers not to take the vitamins and saying it had asked the company that made them, Purity First Health Products, to recall them.
同年7月26日，也就是施佩特博士初次联系F.D.A.近半年后，该机构发布了公共卫生警告，警示消费者不要服用此种维生素，并称自己已要求生产厂家“纯度第一保健品公司”(Purity First Health Products)召回该产品。
“The bottom line is that I feel the F.D.A. did not do everything they could to protect the health of my patients and anyone else taking these supplements,” Dr. Spaeth said.
施佩特博士说：“总而言之，我觉得F.D.A.并没有尽力保护我的患者和服用这些补充剂的其他人的健康。”