When foreign visitors used to describe American culture, they generally settled on different versions of one trait: energy. Whether driven by crass motivations or spiritual ones, Americans, visitors agreed, worked more frantically, moved more and switched jobs more than just about anybody else on earth.
过去，当外国游客描述美国文化时，他们往往会关注同一特点的不同表现形式：精力。游客们都认为，美国人不论是出于表面还是精神层面的原因，工作起来都更加疯狂，他们搬家和换工作的次数比世界任何其他地方的人都要多。
That’s changing. In the past 60 years, for example, Americans have become steadily less mobile. In 1950, 20 percent of Americans moved in a given year. Now, it’s around 12 percent. In the 1950s and 1960s, people lived in the same house for an average of five years; now people live in the same house for an average of 8.6 years. When it comes to geographic mobility, we are now at historic lows, no more mobile than people in Denmark or Finland.
这种情况正在发生变化。例如，过去60年间，美国的流动性明显减弱。1950年一年里，美国有20%的人搬了家。如今这个数据在12%左右。20世纪50、60年代，人们住在同一所房子里的平均时长为五年；如今人们住在同一所房子里的平均时长为8.6年。在地理移动性的问题上，我们处于历史最低点，并不比丹麦或芬兰人民的流动性更强。
Why is this happening? A few theories offer partial explanations, but only partial ones.
为什么会这样？有几个理论提供了部分原因，但只是部分而已。
It is true that we are an aging nation and older people tend to move less. But today’s young people are much less mobile than young people from earlier generations. Between the 1980s and the 2000s alone, mobility among young adults dropped by 41 percent.
我们的国家正在趋于老龄化，较为年长的人搬家会少一些，这个事实毋庸置疑。然而，如今的年轻人比前几代的年轻人搬家的次数更少。仅在20世纪80年代和21世纪的头10年，年轻成年人的流动性就降低了41%。
It’s also true that many people are locked into homes with underwater values. But as Timothy Noah pointed out in Washington Monthly, mobility among renters is down just as sharply as mobility among homeowners.
还有一个事实是，许多人都被困在了资不抵债的房子里。但是正如蒂莫西·诺亚(Timothy Noah)在《华盛顿月刊》(Washington Monthly)中所说的那样，租户的流动性下降幅度不比房主小。
It’s also true that labor markets are getting more homogeneous. It used to be that the jobs found in Pittsburgh were different than the ones found in Atlanta. But now they are more similar, so there is less reason to move from one city to another. But that also fails to explain the tremendous drops over decades.
而且，各地劳动力市场正在趋同。过去的情况是，匹兹堡的工作和亚特兰大的工作是不一样的。但是，它们如今正趋于大同小异，所以人们没有太多从一座城市搬往另一座城市的理由。但这也无法解释为何数10年来流动性出现显著降低。
No, a big factor here is a loss in self-confidence. It takes faith to move. You are putting yourself through temporary expense and hardship because you have faith that over the long run you will slingshot forward. Many highly educated people, who are still moving in high numbers, have that long-term faith. Less-educated people often do not.
不对，这里的一个重要因素是自信心的丧失。搬家是需要信念的。你之所以愿意去承担暂时的开支和困难，是因为你相信你未来会得到很好的发展。许多受过高等教育的人仍然在大量迁移，他们都有着长期的信念。受教育程度较低的人往往不会如此。
One of the oddities of the mobility that does exist is that people are not moving to low-unemployment/high-income areas. Instead they are moving to lower-income areas with cheap housing. That is to say, they are less likely to endure temporary housing hardship for the sake of future opportunity. They are more likely to move to places that offer immediate comfort even if the long-term income prospects are lower.
流动性中一个很奇怪的事实是，人们不会搬到低失业/高收入的区域。相反，他们会搬到有廉价住房的低收入地区。这就是说，他们倾向于不为了将来的机会而忍受暂时的住房难题。他们比较愿意搬到能提供直接享受的地方，尽管长期的收入前景不够乐观。
This loss of faith is evident in other areas of life. Fertility rates, a good marker of confidence, are down. Even accounting for cyclical changes, people are less likely to voluntarily vacate a job in search of a better one. Only 46 percent of white Americans believe they have a good chance of improving their standard of living, the lowest levels in the history of the General Social Survey.
信念的丧失在生活的其他领域也比较明显。作为信心的良好标志的生育率也降低了。即使将周期变化考虑在内，人们都不太可能自愿辞掉工作，去寻找一份更好的工作。只有46%的美国白人认为，他们拥有很多提高生活水平机会，这个比例在“综合社会调查”(General Social Survey)的历史上，处于最低水平。
Peter Beinart wrote a fascinating piece for National Journal, arguing that Americans used to have much more faith in capitalism, a classless society, America’s role in the world and organized religion than people from Europe. But now American attitudes resemble European attitudes, and when you just look at young people, American exceptionalism is basically gone.
彼得·贝纳特(Peter Beinart)给《国家期刊》(National Journal)写了一篇非常不错的文章，他说与欧洲人相比，美国人曾经对资本主义、无阶级社会、美国的世界角色和有组织的宗教拥有更大的信心。然而，美国人目前的态度与欧洲相似，看看年轻人就知道，美国的例外主义已经基本不存在了。
Fifty percent of Americans over 65 believe America stands above all others as the greatest nation on earth. Only 27 percent of Americans ages 18 to 29 believe that. As late as 2003, Americans were more likely than Italians, Brits and Germans to say the “free market economy is the best system on which to base the future of the world.” By 2010, they were slightly less likely than those Europeans to embrace capitalism.
有50%超过65岁的美国人都认为，美国是世界上最强大的国家。而在18岁到29岁的美国人中，只有27%的人持这种观点。直到2003年，美国人还都比意大利、英国和德国人更倾向于相信“自由市场经济是最好的体系，世界的未来就建立在这种体系之上”。而到了2010年，与欧洲人相比，他们对资本主义表示认可的可能性略低。
Thirty years ago, a vast majority of Americans identified as members of the middle class. But since 1988, the percentage of Americans who call themselves members of the “have-nots” has doubled. Today’s young people are more likely to believe success is a matter of luck, not effort, than earlier generations.
30年前，大多数美国人都被认为属于中产阶级。但是自1988年以来，认为自己属于“贫民”的人的比例增加了一倍。与前几代人相比，当今的年轻人更相信成功靠的是运气，而非努力。
These pessimistic views bring to mind a concept that’s been floating around Europe: the Precariat. According to the British academic Guy Standing, the Precariat is the growing class of people living with short-term and part-time work with precarious living standards and “without a narrative of occupational development.” They live with multiple forms of insecurity and are liable to join protest movements across the political spectrum.
这些消极的观点让人想起了一个一直在欧洲广为流传的概念：“无业游民”(Precariat)。英国学者盖·斯坦丁(Guy Standing)说，“无业游民”指的是越来越多的靠短期工作或兼职而生活的人，这些人的生活水平并无保障，而且也没有“任何职业发展前景”。他们的生活会受到各种各样的威胁，而且很可能会参与政治领域的各种抗议运动。
The American Precariat seems more hunkered down, insecure, risk averse, relying on friends and family but without faith in American possibilities. This fatalism is historically uncharacteristic of America.
美国的“无业游民”似乎更因循守旧、缺乏安全感、厌恶风险，他们依赖朋友和家人，但是对美国的可能性缺乏信念。这种宿命论的观点在过去从来不是美国人的特征。
No one response is going to reverse the trend, but Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute believes government should offer moving vouchers to the long-term unemployed so they can chase opportunity. If we could induce more people to Go West! (or South, East or North) in search of opportunity, maybe the old future-oriented mind-set would return.
没有哪个对策能扭转这个趋势，但美国企业研究所(American Enterprise Institute)的迈克尔·斯特兰(Michael Strain)认为，政府应该为长期失业人员提供搬家补助，使他们获得追逐机遇的机会。如果我们能够说服更多人去西部（或南部、东部、北部）寻找机会，或许原来那种关注未来的思维模式就会回归。