New York authorities appear to be getting closer to filing charges in connection with an investigation into accusations of kickbacks being paid to salesmen at high-end car dealerships in the New York area. The investigation is part of a broad national crackdown on businesses seeking to turn a quick profit by exporting luxury cars from the United States to China.
纽约当局似乎越来越接近提出与一项调查有关的指控。这项调查针对的是被指收受回扣的纽约地区高端汽车经销商的销售人员。该调查是一项全国范围的大型打击行动的一部分，打击的对象是寻求从美国向中国出口豪华汽车从而迅速获利的企业。
Two weeks ago, in an indication that the investigation has progressed, Prestige Motors, one of the largest luxury car dealers in the New York region, fired or suspended a half-dozen executives after an internal inquiry by the law firm Drinker Biddle & Reath, said two people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak publicly. The action was a response to the investigation being led by New York State’s attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, whose office has begun contacting some of those Prestige employees.
两个了解此事、但无权公开发表评论的人说，两周前，纽约地区的大型豪华汽车经销商Prestige Motors解除或暂停了六名管理人员的职务；此前，Drinker Biddle & Reath律师事务所为其进行了一项内部调查。这个消息意味着调查已经取得进展。这家经销商的举动是对纽约州总检察长埃里克·T·施耐德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)主导的调查工作的回应。施耐德曼的办公室已经开始接触那些Prestige员工中的一些人。
The investigators are looking at several dealerships in New York and New Jersey that sell Mercedes, BMWs, Range Rovers and Porsches to determine whether sales executives sold new cars to businesses engaged in exporting luxury vehicles to China. New cars can be resold in China for as much as three times the sticker price here because of the high demand in cities like Shanghai and Beijing for luxury vehicles, said the people briefed on the matter.
调查人员正在调查纽约和新泽西的几家经销商，以确定其销售人员是否把新车销售给了向中国出口豪华车的公司。这些经销商销售奔驰(Mercedes)、宝马(BMW)、路虎(Range Rover)和保时捷(Porsches)等品牌的汽车。了解此事的人说，由于上海和北京等城市对豪华汽车的需求很高，新车可以在中国转售，价格最高可达美国标价的三倍。
Government authorities suspect that some of the money being used by the export companies is coming from foreign buyers looking to launder money made in illegal activities. 
联邦当局怀疑，这些出口公司在美国购买汽车的一些资金来自想要洗钱的国外买主，这些人通过从事非法活动赚钱。
Others in the export industry said the government’s yearlong crackdown was starting to have an impact on overseas demand and had caused some wealthy buyers in China to back away from transactions.
出口行业的另外一些人说，政府长达一年的打击活动正在对海外需求造成影响，已经导致中国一些富有的买家放弃购买。
The investigation centers on accusations that some sales executives at luxury auto dealerships took bribes or other payments from these exporting businesses, which typically pay local residents to serve as “straw buyers” who claim to be buying the cars for themselves. The straw buyers come to the dealerships with wallets full of cash to purchase cars that typically retail for $55,000 to $75,000 and are supposed to be sold only for domestic use.
调查的中心是有关豪华汽车经销商的销售管理人员收受这些出口公司提供的贿赂或其他费用的说法。这些出口公司一般为当地的居民支付费用，要求其充当“代购者”，声称是为自己买车。这些代购者带着大量现金到经销商那里，购买零售价一般为5.5万美元到7.5万美元的汽车，而这些汽车本来应该只在本土销售。
It is not clear what laws, if any, the export businesses are violating. In some cases, the authorities have claimed that car export firms violated United States law by using deception to purchase cars and also sometimes submitting falsified shipping documents to conceal the fact the cars were newly purchased. Lawyers for the firms counter that there is nothing inherently illegal in buying a car in the United States and shipping it overseas and that government lawyers were effectively getting involved in a commercial dispute between auto manufacturers and export firms.
目前还不清楚这些出口公司是否违反了法律，以及违反了哪些法律。在一些案例中，当局曾表示，这些汽车出口公司用欺骗手段购买汽车，而且为了隐瞒这些车是新购车，有时提交伪造的发货文件，这些做法违反了美国法律。这些公司的律师们反驳说，在美国购买一辆车然后把车运到海外本身没有触犯任何法律，政府的律师实际上卷入了汽车制造商和出口公司的商业纠纷中。
Matt Mittenthal, a spokesman for Mr. Schneiderman said, “Our investigation is ongoing,” adding that “it is not yet clear which laws are being violated.”
施耐德曼的发言人马特·米顿索尔(Matt Mittenthal)说，“我们的调查正在进行当中，目前尚不清楚这些做法触犯了哪些法律。”
Mr. Schneiderman’s office, along with agents from the Secret Service and the Department of Homeland Security, began investigating the activities at New York-area car dealerships last fall. Several months earlier, the Secret Service began a broad national crackdown in a half-dozen states on automotive firms that specialize in exporting newly purchased luxury cars to China and other overseas countries.
施耐德曼的办公室以及特勤局(Secret Service)和国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)的特工去年秋天开始调查纽约地区汽车经销商的活动。在这几个月之前，特勤局启动了对在六个州向中国等国家出口新购豪华车的汽车公司的全国性大范围打击行动。
Representatives from the two federal agencies recently met with lawyers in Mr. Schneiderman’s office to discuss the investigation and are still deciding whether to pursue the matter in a criminal or civil court, said another person briefed on the matter but not authorized to discuss it. The inquiry by Mr. Schneiderman’s office, if it results in criminal charges, would be a significant escalation in the government crackdown, and potentially put a further chill in the profit potential of this type of business.
另一个了解此事、但无权讨论相关情况的人说，这两个联邦机构的代表最近与施耐德曼办公室的律师见面讨论了调查情况，目前正在决定是否在刑事或民事法院提起诉讼。如果提出刑事指控，施耐德曼办公室的调查活动将代表着政府打击行动的重要升级，可能令这种业务的盈利前景更加黯淡。
To date, most of the actions have involved civil forfeiture brought by federal prosecutors in Florida, New York, New Jersey, Ohio and South Carolina. In those states, the authorities have seized cars and frozen the bank accounts of the export firms in an attempt to squeeze this gray market export business, which is believed responsible for sending as many as 35,000 new luxury cars a year from the United States to China, Russia and other countries.
迄今为止采取的主要行动是佛罗里达州、纽约州、新泽西州、俄亥俄州和南卡罗来纳州的联邦检察官实施的民事罚没。在这些州，当局已经没收了一些汽车，冻结了出口公司的银行账户，以挤压这个灰色市场中的出口公司。据信这些公司每年从美国销往中国、俄罗斯和其他国家的全新豪华汽车多达3.5万辆。
Theresa Boylan, a spokeswoman for Prestige Management Services, which operates seven Prestige Motor dealerships in northern New Jersey, declined to confirm the firings and dismissals or Mr. Schneiderman’s investigation. But she said the company, which also has dealerships in Colorado and Connecticut, “continues to look closely at its business operations and will take appropriate action in any situation involving improper export sales.”
Prestige Management Services的发言人特雷莎·博伊兰(Theresa Boylan)拒绝证实公司人员被解雇和停职的消息，也拒绝证实施耐德曼的调查。该公司在新泽西北部运营着七家Prestige Motor汽车经销点，在科罗拉多和康涅狄格州也有分店。但她说，该公司“在继续密切关注业务运营，将在涉及不当出口销售的情形下采取适当行动。”
This month, the export firms scored a legal victory when a federal judge in Ohio ordered the federal government to return money and cars it seized in September from a car export business based in Los Angeles involved in reselling newly purchased luxury vehicles. Judge Sandra S. Beckwith, of the Federal District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, said that prosecutors had failed to produce sufficient evidence of wrongdoing by the car export company to justify the asset freeze.
本月，这些出口公司赢得了一场官司，俄亥俄州的一名联邦法官要求联邦政府归还去年9月从洛杉矶一家参与转售新购豪华车交易的出口公司没收的资金和汽车。俄亥俄州南区联邦地区法院的法官桑德拉·S·贝克卫斯(Sandra S. Beckwith) 说，检察官未能提供这家汽车出口公司存在不当行为的充分证据，无法证明冻结其资产的合理性。
Reports of auto salesmen taking cash payments to look the other way at the activities are not limited to dealerships in the New York area. A person who works for an export firm, but declined to be identified because it might expose his firm to potential liability, said dealers in other states asked him for cash payments of $5,000 to overlook the fact a car was being sold to an exporter.
有关汽车销售人员在收取现金贿赂之后对上述活动视而不见的指控不仅针对纽约地区的经销商。一家出口公司的工作人员说，其他州的经销商向他索要5000美元的现金贿赂，说只有这样才会无视一辆汽车被卖给出口商的事实。因为可能令公司受到追究，此人拒绝透露身份。