Look at the $4.7 billion purchase in September of the pork producer Smithfield Foods by Shuanghui International Holdings Ltd. -- the Chinese firm that counts Goldman Sachs among its backers -- from the standpoint of the Chinese. As this century’s economic titan, they had to “take a position” in United States pork. China’s population of nearly 1.4 billion is not only growing rapidly but growing wealthier rapidly, and flattering us by emulating our consumption patterns (for better or worse) while having trouble replicating some our production systems.
让我们从中国人的角度看看今年9月的收购案，双汇国际控股有限公司以47亿美元的价格（约合286亿元人民币）收购了史密斯菲尔德食品公司(Smithfield Foods)，高盛(Goldman Sachs)也是这家中国公司的支持者之一。作为本世纪的经济巨人，中国必须在美国的猪肉市场“占据一席之地”。近14亿中国人口不仅在迅速增长，而且在迅速变得更有钱，他们正在效仿我们的消费方式（不论这样做是好是坏），这仿佛是对我们的恭维。不过，在复制我们的一些生产体系时，他们却遇到了麻烦。
China has notorious problems with food safety; urban Chinese consumers distrust the quality and safety of their own food system, and express clear preference for imported food when it is available. What to do when you are the largest pork supplier in China, you have production and quality problems, must meet the ravenous demand for more meat from hundreds of millions of paying consumers, and the international supply is abundant? You buy the world’s largest pork producer and processor, together with that firm’s vaunted supply chain, quality controls, brand value and consumer appeal.
中国存在臭名昭著的食品安全问题；中国城市的消费者不信任本国食品体系的质量和安全性，在能够获得进口食品的情况下，他们明确地表达了对后者的偏爱。如果你是中国最大的猪肉供应商、存在生产和质量问题，却必须满足数亿消费者如饥似渴的肉类需求，而此时国际供应却相当充裕，你会怎么做？你会收购全球最大的猪肉生产商和加工商，同时买下该公司引以为傲的供应链、质量控制体系、品牌价值和对消费者的吸引力。
Sadly, there may be only one potential upside to this deal for most Americans, and that one is ironic. We might see a marginal improvement in the quality of industrially produced pork by ridding it of ractopamine, a lean-meat growth stimulant whose effects on humans are sufficiently questionable that its use for meat production is illegal in the European Union, Russia and China. Smithfield says that as of June, 50 percent of its pork is ractopamine-free, the better to please its new masters.
悲哀的是，对大部分美国人而言，这桩交易也许只有一个潜在的好处，而且这个好处相当讽刺。我们可能会目睹工业化生产猪肉的质量，因为去除了莱克多巴胺(ractopamine)而得到微小的改善。莱克多巴胺是一种瘦肉精，它对人类的影响引发了足够多的疑问，因此在欧盟、俄罗斯和中国，将其用于肉类生产都是非法的。史密斯菲尔德说，截至今年6月，该公司有50%的猪肉不含莱克多巴胺，这能更好地取悦它的新东家。
But can Americans buy Smithfield pork without ractopamine? Maybe, maybe not. At the moment, there’s no way to know.
可是，美国人能买到不含莱克多巴胺的史密斯菲尔德猪肉吗？也许能、也许不能。目前我们无从知晓。
The other upsides are for the Chinese, and of course, Smithfield shareholders, though Smithfield executives would have you believe otherwise. Larry Pope, Smithfield’s C.E.O., who is no doubt glowing about what turned out to be a $34-per-share premium, was cheerleading in his testimony this past summer before the Senate committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. He said that the purchase -- the biggest ever of a United States company by a Chinese one -- “provides enormous benefits … for American manufacturing and agriculture,” and claims it will result in more production, jobs and exports.
其他的好处都属于中国人，当然，还有史密斯菲尔德的股东们，尽管该公司的高管会让你相信不同的说法。今年夏天，在参议院农业、营养和林业委员会(Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry)作证时，史密斯菲尔德公司CEO拉里·波普(Larry Pope)在证词里为这桩交易大唱赞歌。现在，他毫无疑问正在因为每股34美元的收购价溢价而容光焕发。他在作证时说，此次收购能“为美国制造业和农业提供了巨大的收益”，他还声称，此次交易会提高产量和出口，创造更多的就业岗位。
“It’ll be the same old Smithfield, only better,” Mr. Pope said.
波普说，“我们还是原来的史密斯菲尔德，只是会更好。”
The Chinese produce and consume half the world’s pigs. They have a pork strategic reserve not unlike our petroleum reserve. Really. They’ll buy more pork from us when they can and need to, but not simply because a Chinese company owns the factory. (Would you, for example, be more likely to buy a Kia if Goldman Sachs bought the Korean carmaker? For that matter, can you be certain that they haven’t?) If they did, and pork became scarcer, prices would climb; producers might consider that a good thing but consumers would not. Almost anything that reduces consumption of industrially produced meat is a plus, but reducing its production is equally important, and there’s the rub, or one of them.
全世界一半的猪是中国生产和消费的。中国有一个猪肉战略储备，和我们的石油战略储备相似。当他们能够并需要时，他们会从我们这里购买更多猪肉，不过不仅是因为中国公司拥有了史密斯菲尔德的工厂。（打个比方，如果高盛买下那家韩国汽车厂，你会不会更愿意购买一辆起亚[Kia]？而且，你能确定高盛没有买下起亚吗？）如果中国的确从美国购买更多猪肉，那么猪肉就会变得更稀缺，价格就会攀升；生产商也许会觉得这是好事，不过消费者不会这么认为。对于工业化生产的肉类，任何能减少其消耗量的做法都是有利的，但是减少生产也同样重要，这就是症结所在，或者说这二者之中，必有其一是症结所在。
The benefits for Shuanghui are crystal clear: As is the case with 90 percent of the pork produced in the United States, almost all of Smithfield’s “farms” use now standard techniques, including large (average: 2,000 pigs) concentrated animal feeding operations, or CAFOs,in which pigs are confined, fed with legal but problematic drugs and use enormous amounts of feed, water and energy while generating giant lagoons of manure. (That Smithfield has made some progress in manure disposal and even confinement are minor if not insignificant factors when the entire production model is assessed.)
双汇获得的收益清晰无比：和美国生产的90%的猪肉一样，几乎所有的史密斯菲尔德猪场目前都使用标准化技术，包括大型（平均规模2000头猪）集约化饲养模式，猪被圈在一处、喂食符合法律要求但存在问题的药品，消耗大量的饲料、水和能源，排出大堆的粪便。（对整个生产模式进行评估的话，史密斯菲尔德在粪便处理甚至圈养上已经取得一些进展，即使不算微不足道，也只能算是次要因素。）
Smithfield has also bred what might be the world’s leanest and therefore most profitable pork, using genetic research paid for in part with tax dollars through public support of research at land-grant universities. Technologically speaking, the almost inconceivably huge Chinese pork industry is primitive. This is an instantaneous technology transfer that doesn’t involve spying but cash.
史密斯菲尔德还利用基因研究，培育出了可能是全世界最精瘦，所以也是利润最丰厚的猪肉，这项研究中有部分资金源自税收，是通过赠地大学(land-grant universities)里开展的得到公共支持的研究项目获得的。从技术上说，几乎庞大到不可思议的中国猪肉产业还处于原始阶段。此次收购是一种瞬息之间的技术转移，完全不涉及间谍活动，而是跟钱有关。
Given what they just outsourced, why would the Chinese not want to buy the whole shebang? According to Kai Olson-Sawyer, a research and policy analyst at the Grace Communications Foundation who has blogged extensively on this subject, “The CAFO system has major impacts on environmental and human health, rural communities and animal welfare. And basically, taxpayers pay for it all: we subsidize the production of cheap grain used as feed, and are ultimately stuck bearing the environmental, public health and socioeconomic costs of industrial livestock production.”
考虑到中国人刚刚完成的对外收购的规模，为什么他们不想购买全套家当呢？格蕾丝沟通基金会(Grace Communications Foundation)研究及政策分析师凯·奥尔森-索耶(Kai Olson-Sawyer)说，“集约化养殖对环境和人类健康、农村社区和动物福利存在重大影响。基本上，纳税人承担了这种经营的所有成本：用作饲料的廉价粮食的生产过程是由我们补贴的，而且最后却不得不承担工业化养殖生产导致的环境、公共卫生和社会经济成本。”奥尔森-索耶在博客里就这一主题发表过许多见解。
The fact is that China is going to be a net importer of food more or less forever: it’s got a fifth of the world’s population (and eats a fifth of the world’s food), but only nine percent of its agricultural land and scarce water resources. (The average pig takes nearly 600 gallons of water to produce a pound of meat.)
事实上，中国基本上会成为永久性的食品净进口国：它有全球五分之一的人口（消费全球五分之一的食物），但只有全球9%的农田，而且水资源稀缺。每头猪每长出一磅（约合0.45公斤）肉，平均要消耗近600加仑（约合2270升）的水。
So even more than a technology grab, the Smithfield deal is a land and water grab. We still have the world’s most enviable combination of arable land, rainfall and temperate weather, and there’s no practical technological substitute for any of these. It’s the consumption of these resources, along with the manure deposits, that make the Smithfield deal, to paraphrase Warren Buffett, a form of colonization by purchase rather than conquest. In short, the deal, as Minxin Pei wrote in Fortune, is “really about owning access to America’s safe farmland and clean water supplies.”
所以，收购史密斯菲尔德的交易不只是夺取技术，更是在夺取土地和水。我们仍然拥有全球最令人羡慕的耕地、降雨和温带气候，这些东西都不存在可行的技术替代物。按照沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)的说法，正是对这些资源的消费，还有堆积起的粪便，让史密斯菲尔德并购案成了通过收购，而非征服，来实现某种形式的殖民扩张的例子。简而言之，就像裴敏欣在《财富》(Fortune)杂志上所写的，这次交易“实际上是为了取得使用美国安全的农田和清洁的水源的渠道”。
Put aside for a moment the arguments of those who see a better way to eat and produce food more sustainably. And put aside that most Americans remain ignorant of how food is produced and the effect that production has on land, water, energy and even climate. Just say this: all agriculture has impact, which means it uses resources and leaves behind waste. We implicitly accept some of that impact because we want, for example, the pork.
有些人想到了更可持续地食用和生产食物的方法，我们暂且不讨论他们的观点。大多数美国人对食物生产的方式一无所知，也不知道这种生产方式对土地、水、能源，甚至气候造成的影响，不过我们暂且也不讨论这个问题。只说一点：所有的农业都会产生影响，这意味着它要消耗资源、产生废物。我们默许了其中的一些影响，因为我们需要农产品，比方说，猪肉。
The Smithfield-Shuanghui deal guarantees China the pork while offloading the downsides (the “externalities”) of pork production onto The Land of the Free. It guarantees us cropland devoted to chemical-dependent monoculture; continued overuse of water and other resources, none of which we can afford to squander; and great big stinking piles of manure. In sum, it transfers the environmental damage of large-scale pork production from China to the United States without even guaranteeing us pork with as few chemicals as that shipped to China.
史密斯菲尔德和双汇的收购交易确保了中国获得充足的猪肉，同时把生产猪肉的负面影响（或者说“外部性”）转嫁给了“自由之国”（The Land of the Free，意指美国——译注）。它确保我们的农田会被用于种植依赖化肥的单一作物；确保我们会继续过量使用水和其他资源，其中的哪一样，我们都挥霍不起；而且还会确保产出大堆大堆臭气熏天的粪便。总而言之，它把大规模猪肉生产对环境的损害，从中国转移到了美国，甚至不用保障我们吃到的猪肉里含有的化学品和运往中国的猪肉一样少。
Welcome to China’s farm team.
欢迎加入中国的养猪大队。