BATON ROUGE, La. — Three law enforcement officers were fatally shot and three others wounded Sunday in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, the East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff’s Office said, less than two weeks after a black man was killed by the police here, sparking nightly protests.
路易斯安那州巴吞鲁日——东巴吞鲁日县警长办公室表示，周日，路易斯安那州巴吞鲁日市的三名执法人员遭枪击身亡，另有三名执法人员受伤。事发不到两周前，这里的一名黑人男子被警察打死，此后每晚都会举行抗议活动。
The gunman, who was identified as Gavin Long, of Kansas City, Missouri, was killed by the police.
枪手已被警方击毙，其身份经确认是密苏里州堪萨斯城的加文·龙(Gavin Long)。
Police said initially that they were looking for other possible suspects, but the superintendent of the Louisiana State Police, Col. Michael Edmonson, said at a news conference that the person who attacked the officers had been shot and killed at the scene.
警方最初表示，他们正在寻找其他可能的嫌疑人，但路易斯安那州警的迈克尔·埃德蒙森(Michael Edmonson)警司在新闻发布会上说，袭击执法人员的人已被当场击毙。
“There is not an active shooter scenario in Baton Rouge,” Edmonson said in a day punctuated by rumors and misinformation.
“目前巴吞鲁日不存在仍在活动的枪手，”埃德蒙森在不时有谣言和错误的信息传出之际表示。
Edmonson said that a call came in to police dispatch early Sunday reporting “a guy carrying a weapon” near the Hammond Aire Plaza shopping center on Airline Highway.
埃德蒙森说，周日早上，警察调度指挥中心接到电话称，在民航高速路上的哈蒙德艾尔购物广场(Hammond Aire Plaza)附近有“一个拿着武器的男人”。
Around 8:40 a.m., law enforcement officers observed the man, wearing all black and holding a rifle, outside a beauty supply store, he said. Within the next 4 minutes, there were reports of shots fired and officers struck, said Edmonson, whose agency will take the lead on the investigation assisted by local and federal investigators.
他说，8点40分左右，执法人员在一家美容用品店外发现了那个一袭黑衣、手持一把步枪的男人，接下来的四分钟时间里，传来了开火和执法人员中枪的消息。埃德蒙森所在的警局将在地方和联邦调查人员协助下主持调查工作。
Asked if investigators believed that the police had been targeted, Kip Holden, the mayor-president of East Baton Rouge Parish, noted that the police were responding to a report of a man with a weapon. Louisiana is an open-carry state.
当被问及调查人员是否认为枪手以警员为目标时，东巴吞鲁日县县长基普·霍尔登(Kip Holden)表示，警员是在接到一个男人持有武器的消息后采取行动的。路易斯安那州允许公开携枪。
“Based upon that, it would not seem that they were targeted,” Holden said. “They responded to a call that said there’s this guy walking along the street in these dark clothes, carrying a rifle.”
“基于此，当时不会想到他们将成为目标，”霍尔登说。“他们出警的原因是有人打电话来，说一个持有一把步枪的黑衣人在街边走。”
Violence against law enforcement, Gov. John Bel Edwards of Louisiana said, “doesn’t address any injustice, perceived or real. It is just an injustice in and of itself.”
路易斯安那州州长约翰·贝尔·爱德华兹(John Bel Edwards)说，针对执法者的暴力“并不能解决任何真实或想象的不公，它本身就是一种不公”。
Just five days after traveling to a memorial service in Dallas for the five police officers killed there, President Barack Obama addressed the killings of police officers Sunday afternoon. In remarks from the White House, he said they were “an attack on all of us.”
前往达拉斯参加五名被杀警员的追悼会仅仅五天后，也就是周日下午，巴拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统就巴吞鲁日警员遇袭身亡事件做出了回应。他在白宫发表讲话时表示，这是“针对我们所有人的袭击”。