RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. — As President Obama weighs airstrikes against marauding militants in Iraq, he has concluded that any American military action must be conditioned on a political plan to try to heal Iraq’s sectarian rifts, a senior administration official said on Sunday.
加州兰乔米拉——一位高级政府官员上周日表示，正考虑对在伊拉克烧杀抢掠的武装分子实施空袭的奥巴马总统已经决定，美国的任何军事行动，必须以一个政治计划为先决条件，这个计划应努力弥合伊拉克的宗派裂痕。
While Mr. Obama has ordered unmanned surveillance flights over Iraq to gather intelligence for possible strikes on militant positions, the official said, the White House’s emphasis, when Mr. Obama returns to Washington on Monday from a weekend in Southern California, will be on prodding Iraq’s leaders to form a new national unity government.
这名官员表示，虽然奥巴马已经下令动用无人机在伊拉克境内进行侦察飞行，以便收集情报，做好打击军事目标的准备，但是，当奥巴马本周一从南加州度周末回到华盛顿时，白宫将把侧重点放在了敦促伊拉克领导人组建一个新的全国联合政府上。
The United States, this official said, has asked Iraq’s prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a Shiite, to work with the Kurds to seek to persuade the disaffected Sunni minority that the next government will be an “ally not an adversary” and to invest in Iraq’s depleted army. All three groups must be adequately represented in Baghdad, he said.
这名官员表示，美国已经要求什叶派的伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)一方面与库尔德人合作，努力让那些心怀不满的少数派逊尼派相信，下届政府将是他们的“盟友而非对手”；另一方面对伊拉克所剩不多的军队进行投入。他说，这三个群体的呼声都必须在巴格达得到充分表达。
The president’s two-track response, the official said, stems from his belief that military strikes on radical Sunni militants, absent parallel measures to reform Iraq’s government, will simply hand the country over to competing Shiite, Kurdish and Sunni fighters, and a future of unending sectarian strife.
该官员表示，奥巴马双管齐下的回应方式源于这样一个信念：对激进的逊尼派武装分子进行空袭，如果不辅以对伊拉克政府加以改革的并行措施，就相当于把这个国家直接交到了什叶派、库尔德人和逊尼派武装手中，以后会有无休无止的教派冲突。
The White House believes it has a brief window to pursue diplomacy, this official said, because after a week of surprising advances across Iraq’s Sunni-dominated north and west, the militant group, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, now faces more motivated Iraqi troops and fiercely motivated Shiite militias, defending the gates of Baghdad.
这位官员说，白宫相信现在有一个追求外交解决的短暂时机，因为在逊尼派为主的伊拉克北部和西部，武装分子取得惊人胜利一周之后，这个名为“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)的激进组织现在面对的是积极性有所增强的伊拉克部队，以及极其主动的什叶派民兵，他们在保卫巴格达的门户。
On Sunday, reflecting American concerns over the militant advance, the State Department said it plans to evacuate some of its personnel from the heavily fortified American Embassy in Baghdad to Jordan and consulates in more secure cities in Iraq. Most of the staff will remain in Baghdad.
上周日，美国国务院的一条消息显示了该国对武装分子推进的担忧。国务院表示，它计划从戒备森严的美国驻巴格达大使馆撤离一些人员，分散到约旦和伊拉克较安全地区的领事馆。大部分职员则将继续留在巴格达。
Mr. Obama’s push for political reconciliation has put him in a potential alignment with Iran, a Shiite backer of the Maliki government. On Sunday, Iranian officials echoed Mr. Obama’s admonition to Mr. Maliki that he needed to be more inclusive of the Sunnis to quell the insurgency.
奥巴马促进政治和解的举动，可能会让他和伊朗站在同一条船上；什叶派占主导的伊朗是马利基政府的支持者。上周日，伊朗官员对马利基发出了类似于奥巴马的告诫，说他需要提高对于逊尼派的包容性，以平息叛乱。
“Iraqi politicians should make tough decisions in order to keep unity in their country,” Hamid Aboutalebi, a top deputy to President Hassan Rouhani, wrote on Twitter. In another tweet, he said, “Iran and the U.S. are the only countries who can manage the Iraq crisis.”
“为了维护国家团结，伊拉克政治家应做出艰难的决定，”哈米德·阿布塔莱比(Hamid Aboutalebi)在Twitter上写道，他是伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)的高级副手。他还在另一条推文中说，“现在可以控制伊拉克危机的国家只有伊朗和美国。”
The messages came a day after Mr. Rouhani said that Iran would not rule out working with the United States to battle Sunni fighters. On Friday, American officials said that Gen. Qassim Suleimani, the shadowy commander of Iran’s paramilitary Quds Force, had flown to Iraq with dozens of his officers to advise Iraq’s beleaguered commanders.
这些推文发布的前一天，鲁哈尼表示，伊朗不排除与美国合作，和逊尼派武装开战的可能。美国官员说，上周五，行事隐秘的伊朗准军事武装圣城军(Quds Force)指挥官卡西姆·苏莱马尼(Qassim Suleimani)上将率领下数十名军官飞到伊拉克，为该国焦头烂额的指挥官们提供建议。
While the United States and Iran have both backed Mr. Maliki — and American officials said they were still standing by him now, while not endorsing a third term for him as prime minister — they have had sharply different goals: The United States has supported Mr. Maliki, while urging him to lead a cross-sectarian government; Iran has wanted him at the head of a Shiite-dominated government.
尽管美国和伊朗都支持马利基——美国官员们表示，他们虽然不认可他第三次担任总理，但现在仍然支持他——两国的目标却截然不同：美国支持马利基，同时敦促他组建一个跨宗派的政府；伊朗则希望他执掌什叶派主导的政府。
The complex calculations facing Mr. Obama are evident in the advice he is getting from his critics. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said on the CBS program “Face the Nation” that the United States should conduct airstrikes against the militants, if necessary, working with Iran, given the common interest in saving Baghdad.
奥巴马面临的复杂状况，在其批评者发表的意见中表现得很明显。南卡罗莱纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)在CBS节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)中说，美国应进行对武装分子进行空袭，如果有必要的话还应该与伊朗合作，因为美伊在拯救巴格达这件事上具有共同利益。
As Mr. Obama pursues a political solution, officials said Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Mr. Kerry would both play higher-profile roles. Mr. Biden, who held the Iraq portfolio during the administration’s first term, called Mr. Maliki last week. The president has not yet spoken to the Iraqi prime minister during this crisis.
官员们说，由于奥巴马寻求政治解决途径，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.) 和国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)都将扮演更高调的角色。拜登在奥巴马政府第一任期中处理过伊拉克事务，上周他给马利基打了电话。这次危机发生后，奥巴马总统还没有和伊拉克总理进行过交谈。
The White House has been considering whether, and how, to initiate discussions with Iran on Iraq’s security. Josh Earnest, the deputy spokesman, said Friday no such talks had occurred but did not rule out the possibility they could in the future.
白宫一直在考虑是否以及如何就伊拉克安全问题和伊朗展开对话。副发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)在周五说，目前还没有进行这样的对话，但不排除今后这样做的可能。
On Saturday, Mr. Kerry called Iraq’s foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, to urge the government to ratify the results of its recent parliamentary election “without delay,” and stick to “its constitutionally mandated time frame for forming a new government,” the State Department said.
美国国务院称，克里在周六致电伊拉克外交部长霍希亚尔·兹巴里(Hoshyar Zebari)，敦促其政府“及时”批准近日的议会选举结果，严守“宪法规定的组建新政府的时间框架。”