LONDON — The bitter fiscal stalemate in Washington is producing nervous ripples from London to Bali, with increasing anxiety that the United States might actually default on a portion of its government debt, set off global financial troubles and undercut fragile economic recoveries in many countries.
伦敦——美国政府惨痛的财政僵局正在产生令人不安的涟漪效应，从伦敦到巴厘岛，各地都被这一效应波及，各国越来越担忧，美国可能会实实在在地拖欠部分政府债务，从而引发全球性金融困局、打断许多国家脆弱的经济复苏进程。
Five years after the financial crisis in the United States helped spread a deep global recession, policy makers around the world again fear collateral damage, this time with their nations becoming victims not of Wall Street’s excesses but of a political system in Washington that to many foreign eyes no longer seems to be able to function efficiently.
五年之前，美国的经济危机曾加深全球深度经济衰退的蔓延。如今，全球的政策制定者再次担忧被殃及，这一次，他们的国家不会成为华尔街肆意妄为的牺牲品，却会成为美国政治体制的牺牲品，在许多外国人士眼中，这个体制似乎无法再维持有效的运转。
There is plenty of evidence that the United States remains engaged globally on many levels, with the dual commando raids on targets in Africa this weekend the most recent. But the partial shutdown of the United States government has shown again that Washington’s problems extend beyond American borders. Effectively grounded by the political crisis at home, President Obama was absent from a summit meeting of Pacific Rim leaders in Indonesia on Monday, giving China greater opportunity to highlight its role in the region.
大量证据表明，美国在许多层面上依然维持着对国际事务的参与，最近的表现就是美国于本周末在非洲针对目标发起的双重突击行动。可是，美国政府部分停摆已经再次显示，它的问题会延伸到美国国境之外。受到国内政治危机的有效牵制，奥巴马总统缺席了本周一在印度尼西亚举行环太平洋领导人峰会，给中国提供了更大的机会来彰显它在该区域的作用。
One of the attendees, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, provided a possibly sardonic statement of sympathy for Mr. Obama. “We see what is happening in U.S. domestic politics and this is not an easy situation,” Mr. Putin said, adding, “If I was in his situation, I would not come, either.”
峰会的出席者之一、俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)对奥巴马发表了也许带有讽刺意味的同情感言。普京说，“我们目睹了美国国内政治的现状，形势殊为艰难。”他还说，“如果我遭遇他所处的局面，我也不会来。”
In Europe, the effort to reach a big new trade accord with the United States is at a standstill, with many government agencies in Washington operating with skeletal staffs. And as worrisome as that kind of delay is in Europe, it is only a precursor to the almost certain economic fallout if the United States does not raise the debt limit and defaults for the first time on government securities.
在欧洲，和美国达成新的大型贸易协议的努力陷入了停滞，原因是华盛顿许多政府机构的运转人手严重不足。让欧洲感到同样担忧的是，如果美国不提高债务上限，不首次拖欠政府债务，那么，这种延误只会是几乎铁定会出现的经济衰退的一个前兆。
Foreigners often complain, usually with some forbearance, that the United States is so powerful that its president is in some important sense their president, too. In their case, however, they lack the opportunity to cast a vote.
海外民众经常抱怨，美国如此强大，以至于从某个重要的意义上说，美国总统也是他们的总统，说这话的时候，他们的口气还往往带着一丝克制。然而，从他们的角度说，他们没有投票的机会。
There is not much that any foreigner can do about Mr. Obama’s confrontation with the House speaker, John A. Boehner, who said Sunday that his Republican members would not accept a clean bill — one with no conditions — that would raise the American debt limit before the government hits its borrowing limit and risks technical default as soon as next week. At the same time, Mr. Boehner has told colleagues privately that he would avert a default, but whether he actually has the ability to do so remains uncertain.
对于奥巴马和众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)之间的对峙，海外民众基本无法插手。博纳于周日表示，他的共和党同僚不会接受一份干干净净的提案，也就是不带任何条件的提案，该提案原本可以提高美国的债务上限，赶在美国政府触及借贷上限、以及最快于下周触发法律意义上的债务违约风险之前。与此同时，私下里，博纳已对同僚表示，他会避免债务违约情况的发生，不过，目前依然无法确定的是，他是否确实拥有做到这一点的能力。
“The international community is asking, ‘Does the U.S. still have the will to act?’ ” said Xenia Dormandy, a senior fellow at London’s Chatham House and a former American official in the State Department and the National Security Council under President George W. Bush.
“国际社会在问，‘美国仍有采取行动的决心吗？’”英国皇家国际事务研究所(Chatham House)资深研究员齐妮娅·多曼迪(Xenia Dormandy)说道。多曼迪为前美国国务院官员，曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)任内就职于国家安全委员会。
“Both the Syria vote and the current budget crisis are nerve-racking for the world,” she said, referring to Mr. Obama’s sudden decision to ask Congress to authorize a strike on Syria and then changing his mind.
“针对叙利亚的投票，以及当前的预算危机，都让当今世界神经紧张，”多曼迪说，指的是奥巴马之前突然决定请国会授权打击叙利亚，接着又改变了主意。
Alain Frachon, a columnist and former Washington correspondent for the French newspaper Le Monde, said, “Washington is looking more like the Italian political system, with its permanent crises, and not a presidential system, as before.”
法国报纸《世界报》(Le Monde)前华盛顿驻站记者、专栏作者阿兰·弗拉商(Alain Frachon)说，“华盛顿的政治体制现在看上去更像意大利，有着永久性的危机，而不像之前那样，是一种总统制。”
The anxiety is all over Europe, Mr. Frachon said, and it comes just as Greece and Spain seem to be turning around, as there are spurts of growth that promise an end to recession, and as Germany has gotten through its elections and Rome through another political crisis. Another financial meltdown would hurt France, too, he said, not just Greece, Portugal and Spain.
焦虑感弥漫整个欧洲，弗拉商说，此外，这种焦虑来临之时，希腊和西班牙的状况似乎正要出现转机，经济刚刚出现爆发性增长，预示着衰退即将结束，而德国结束了选举，罗马也度过了又一场政治危机。如果出现另一轮金融崩盘，受创的将不止是希腊、葡萄牙和西班牙，连法国也不能幸免，弗拉商说。
“People don’t want to see all this fragile equilibrium destabilized by a possible financial crisis provoked in Washington,” he said.
“人们不想看到这个脆弱的经济稳定局面被肇源于华盛顿的一场潜在金融危机所破坏，”弗拉商说。
Jean-Paul Fitoussi, an economist at the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris, said a default would slow the American economy and depreciate the dollar, “so it would lead to a loss of competitiveness in Europe at the very moment when all policies in Europe are aimed at increasing competitiveness, and that would be very bad news.”
巴黎政治学院(Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris)的经济学家让-保罗·菲图西(Jean-Paul Fitoussi)说，政府违约将降低美国的经济发展速度，让美元贬值，“就在欧洲的所有政策都旨在增强竞争力之时，这样的局面将会导致欧洲的竞争力下降，后果十分糟糕。”
Perhaps worse, he said, is that “the banking system in Europe remains fragile, so more bad news could have unforeseen consequences on the world’s financial system.”
或许更糟的是，菲图西说，“鉴于欧洲的银行系统仍很脆弱，如果有更多糟糕事情发生的话，世界的金融体系可能会面临未曾预见的后果。”
The United States has gone through government shutdowns before, Mr. Fitoussi noted, but this time it feels different, even if it turns out to be short-lived.
菲图西表示，美国以前也经历过政府关门，这一次的感觉却不一样，即使事实证明关门持续的时间并不长。
“Perhaps we have not completely understood the American Constitution, and the effective power of the president is not as strong as we believed,” he said. “And maybe it’s because Obama is not using his constitutional power very well.”
“也许我们没有完全弄懂美国宪法，美国总统的实权也不如我们认为的那么大，”菲图西说。“又或许，这是因为奥巴马没有很好地利用他的宪定权力。”
The weekend military strikes on terrorist targets in Libya and Somalia are a perfect indication that the American government can act when its direct interests are at stake, said Ms. Dormandy of Chatham House. But the deeper question is whether a more insular, less globally active United States is emerging for the longer term, or is just a function of the Obama administration’s reaction to events.
皇家国际事务研究所的多曼迪说，周末对位于利比亚和索马里的恐怖主义目标的军事打击极好地说明，当关乎其直接利益时，美国政府仍有能力采取行动。但更深层的问题是，美国是否会在更长期内趋于孤立，降低参与全球事务的积极性，如其不然，这是否只是奥巴马政府应对方法的一个后果。
“The jury is still out,” Ms. Dormandy said, “but I would say it seems like a more profound transition.”
“现在尚无定论，”多曼迪说，“但我认为，这看上去像是一种更深层的转变。”