WASHINGTON — For weeks, Capitol Hill has tried to keep America’s military engagement in Iraq at arm’s length: Democrats and Republicans warily backed President Obama’s limited airstrikes against Sunni militants, but nobody — aside from Senator John McCain and a few fellow hawks — demonstrated an appetite for deeper involvement.
华盛顿——数周以来，美国国会一直试图让美军与伊拉克保持一定距离。民主党人和共和党人心存警惕地支持了奥巴马总统的提议，即对逊尼派武装分子采取有限的空中打击，但是除了参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)及为数不多的其他鹰派之外，没有人有意加大干预力度。
Now, though, the gruesome execution of an American journalist, James Foley, has drawn an intensely emotional reaction from lawmakers in both parties, with many issuing statements condemning the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, the group responsible for Mr. Foley’s killing, and some urging Mr. Obama to redouble the fight against it.
然而现在，美国记者詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)遭到血腥处决的事件，在两党议员中产生了激烈反应，许多人发表声明谴责对福利被杀负责的伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS），还有一些人敦促奥巴马总统加大对ISIS的打击力度。
There were signs on Thursday that the Obama administration is weighing that, with the White House and the Pentagon refusing to rule out military action against the group in Syria. But far from satisfying Congress, a wider conflict could put lawmakers, particularly Democrats, in a difficult position, since most deeply oppose any new war in the Middle East.
周四，有迹象表明奥巴马政府正在考虑这种选项，白宫和五角大楼都拒绝排除在叙利亚针对该团体采取军事行动的可能性。然而这种前景很难令国会满意，因为扩大冲突规模会让许多议员，尤其是民主党人，置身艰难的处境，因为他们当中多数人都坚决反对在中东地区发动新的战争。
“Most Democrats and Republicans are extraordinarily wary of being sucked into a large occupation, both because it will kill a lot of Americans and because we saw in Iraq the last time that it didn’t work,” said Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.
“多数民主党人和共和党人异常反感被牵扯到大规模的占领行动当中，这既是因为许多美国人会因此丧命，也是因为我们在伊拉克看到了，上一次的行动并不管用，”加利福尼亚州民主党众议员亚当·B·希夫(Adam B. Schiff)表示。希夫也是众议院情报委员会(House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence)委员。
Mr. Schiff was among those who expressed horror at Mr. Foley’s killing, saying, “Seldom is the descriptor ‘evil’ applied with perfect accuracy as it is with this monstrous group.”
对于福利的被害表达愤慨的议员中就包括希夫。他表示，“用‘邪恶’这个词来形容这个魔鬼一般的团体，实在是难得地恰当。”
His fellow California Democrat, Senator Dianne Feinstein, has called for “coordinated and sustained action” to defeat the militants. “Only then can we reverse ISIL’s rise and eliminate this very dangerous terrorist threat,” she said, using an alternative name for the group.
加利福尼亚州民主党参议员戴安·范士丹(Dianne Feinstein)呼吁采取“协调、持续的行动”打击武装分子。她说，“只有那样，我们才能扭转ISIL的崛起，消灭这个十分危险的恐怖主义威胁。”ISIL是该组织的另一种缩写。
A growing number of Republicans are criticizing Mr. Obama for not doing more. Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said, “President Obama continues to appear unwilling to do what is necessary to confront ISIL and communicate clearly to the American people about the threat ISIL poses to our country and to our way of life.”
越来越多的共和党人开始批评奥巴马行动力度不足。佛罗里达州共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)说，“奥巴马总统仿佛仍不愿意采取必要的行动来抗击ISIL，向美国民众明确地传达ISIL对我们国家，以及我们的生活方式所构成的威胁。”
Representative Mike Pompeo, a Kansas Republican who is also a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, said: “The president’s current path of action has been far too limited to make a difference. We must do what is necessary to eliminate ISIS, protect the innocent, and keep Americans safe.”
堪萨斯州共和党众议员迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)也是众议院情报委员会成员，他表示：“总统当前的行动方针过于有限，无法产生效果。我们必须采取必要的措施消灭ISIS，保护无辜者，确保美国人的安全。”
But few of these Republicans have laid out exactly what they want Mr. Obama to do to intensify the battle. Even conducting airstrikes in Syria would be a politically fraught step.
然而这些共和党人当中，却几乎没有人明确指出，他们想要奥巴马做些什么来加大战斗力度。即使是在叙利亚实施空袭，也是一个具有复杂政治影响的举动。
The last time the president sought to put military action in Syria to a congressional vote — a missile strike after Syria’s chemical weapons attacks last year — he faced an overwhelming defeat that he avoided only by seizing on an alternative Russian diplomatic proposal.
奥巴马上一次寻求国会就是否对叙利亚采取军事行动（在叙利亚采取化武攻击之后，发动导弹袭击）投票表决之时，险些遭遇压倒性的反对。他抓住时机，接受了俄罗斯通过外交途径解决的提议，才避免了遭遇挫败。
Little has changed in Congress since, even if a vote to use military action in response to an attack on Americans would naturally draw more support than intervening in a distant civil war.
尽管美国人遇袭后以军事行动作为回应的投票表决，与干预遥远的内战相比，自然能赢得更多支持，但是从那时到现在，国会的形势几乎没有变化。
“This horrendous event has got a lot of folks in Congress talking,” Representative Peter Welch, a Vermont Democrat, said of the killing of Mr. Foley, “but it doesn’t give us a license to ignore the lessons of George W. Bush in Iraq.”
“这起骇人听闻的事件，在国会中有很多人在谈论，”佛蒙特州民主党众议员彼得·韦尔奇(Peter Welch)在谈到福利被害事件时说，“然而我们并不能据此无视乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)在伊拉克的教训。”
Mr. Schiff said he was concerned that the White House had already broadened the mission beyond the limited purposes outlined by Mr. Obama two weeks ago — conducting airstrikes to support Iraqi forces in recapturing the Mosul Dam, for example.
希夫说，他担心白宫已经扩大了行动的范围，超出了奥巴马两周前所阐述的有限目标——例如，实施空袭支持伊拉克军方夺回摩苏尔坝(Mosul Dam)的控制权。
On Thursday, a day after disclosing that the Pentagon had mounted a fruitless rescue operation in Syria for Mr. Foley and other American hostages, the White House indicated it would not rule out further military action in Syria if there was a threat to Americans.
周四，白宫表示，如果美国人面临威胁，不会排除在叙利亚进一步采取军事行动的可能性。此前一天，有消息透露，五角大楼曾在叙利亚采取行动，试图营救福利及其他美国人质，但以失败告终。
For his part, the president did not signal a shift in his strategy, even as he condemned the militants who killed Mr. Foley for having no “ideology of any value to human beings.”
奥巴马并未表示自己的战略产生了变化，尽管他曾谴责杀害福利的武装分子，完全没有“对人类有任何价值的意识形态”。
“The United States of America will continue to do what we must do to protect our people,” Mr. Obama said on Wednesday. “We will be vigilant and we will be relentless. When people harm Americans, anywhere, we do what’s necessary to see that justice is done.”
“美利坚合众国会继续采取必要的行动保护我国民众，”奥巴马周三说。“我们会保持警醒，不遗余力。无论何时何地，只要有人伤害美国人，我们都会采取必要的措施，确保他们受到正义的惩罚。”