John Glenn, a freckle-faced son of Ohio who was hailed as a national hero and a symbol of the Space Age as the first American to orbit the Earth, then became a national political figure for 24 years in the Senate, died on Thursday in Columbus, Ohio. He was 95.
满脸雀斑的俄亥俄州之子约翰·格伦(John Glenn)被赞为国家英雄。作为第一位环绕地球飞行的美国人，他成为太空时代的一个象征。后来他成为一名国家政治人物，在参议院任职24年。周四，他在俄亥俄州哥伦布市去世，享年95岁。
His death was announced on Twitter by Gov. John Kasich of Ohio.
俄亥俄州长约翰·卡西奇(John Kasich)在Twitter上公布了格伦去世的消息。
Glenn had recently been hospitalized at the James Cancer Center at Ohio State University in Columbus, though university officials said at the time that admission there did not necessarily mean he had cancer. He had heart-valve replacement surgery in 2014 and a stroke around that time.
前不久，格伦在俄亥俄州立大学哥伦布分校(Ohio State University in Columbus)的詹姆斯癌症中心(James Cancer Center)住院治疗，不过，当时大学官员们称，在那里住院并不意味着他得了癌症。2014年，他做了心脏瓣膜置换手术，那段时间还中风过一次。
In just five hours on Feb. 20, 1962, Glenn joined a select roster of Americans whose feats have seized the country’s imagination and come to embody a moment in its history, figures like Lewis and Clark, the Wright brothers and Charles Lindbergh.
1962年2月20日，格伦仅仅花了5个小时，就进入了一个美国精英名单，比肩刘易斯和克拉克(Lewis and Clark)、怀特兄弟以及林白(Charles Lindbergh)等等人物。他们的事迹令美国人民兴奋不已，代表着美国历史上的一个时刻。
It was a short flight, just three orbits. But when Glenn was safely back, flashing the world a triumphant grin, doubts were replaced by a broad, new faith that the United States could indeed hold its own against the Soviet Union in the Cold War and might someday prevail.
那是一次短暂的飞行，他只飞了三圈。不过，当格伦安全返回、向全世界露出胜利的笑容时，疑虑被一种普遍的新生信念所取代，那就是，美国真的能够在冷战中对抗苏联，而且未来还可能占上风。
Glenn was reluctant to talk about himself as a hero. “I figure I’m the same person who grew up in New Concord, Ohio, and went off through the years to participate in a lot of events of importance,” he said in an interview years later.
格伦不大愿意称自己为英雄。“我觉得自己还是那个在俄亥俄州新康科德长大的人，只是这些年参与了很多重要事件，”多年后，他在一次采访中说。
Glenn did not return to space for a long time. President John F. Kennedy thought him too valuable as a hero to risk losing in an accident. So Glenn resigned from the astronaut corps in 1964, became an executive in private industry and entered politics, serving four full terms as a Democratic senator from Ohio and in 1984 running unsuccessfully for the Democratic presidential nomination.
格伦有很长一段时间没有返回太空。约翰·F·肯尼迪总统(John F. Kennedy)认为他是一名宝贵的英雄，不能再冒在事故中丧生的风险。所以，1964年，格伦从宇航员队伍中退役，成为一名私企高管。后来，他进入政界，作为俄亥俄州民主党人担任了整整四届参议员。1984年，他竞选民主党总统提名，没有成功。
Finally, 36 years after his Mercury flight, in the last months of his final Senate term, he got his wish for a return to orbit. Despite some criticism that his presence on the mission was a political payoff, a waste of money and of doubtful scientific merit, he was launched aboard the space shuttle Discovery on Oct. 29, 1998. At 77, he became the oldest person to go into space.
在水星计划36年后，在他参议员任期的最后几个月里实现了自己的愿望，再次返回轨道。尽管有人批评说，他参与这次任务是政治贿赂，浪费钱财，没有科研价值，但是，1998年10月29日，他还是登上了发现号航天飞机(Discovery)。他在77岁高龄，成为年龄最大的飞入太空的人。
In retirement from the Senate, Glenn lived with his wife of 73 years, Anna (he always called her Annie), in a suburb of Washington in addition to Columbus.
从参议院退休后，格伦和结婚73年的妻子安娜（他总是叫她安妮）生活在华盛顿郊区和哥伦布市。
John Herschel Glenn Jr. was born on July 18, 1921, in Cambridge, Ohio, the only son of a railroad conductor who also owned a plumbing business, and the former Clara Sproat.
小约翰·赫舍尔·格伦(John Herschel Glenn Jr.)于1921年7月18日出生在俄亥俄州坎布里奇市，是一名铁路列车员的独子。他父亲还拥有一家管道公司，他母亲的原名是克拉拉·斯普罗特(Clara Sproat)。
Glenn began his journey to fame in World War II. As a fighter pilot, he flew 59 combat missions in the Pacific, earning two Distinguished Flying Crosses and other decorations. Glenn saw more action in the Korean War, flying 90 combat missions and winning more medals.
格伦在二战期间开始了自己的成名之旅。作为一名战斗机飞行员，他在太平洋地区执行了59次战斗飞行任务，两次获得飞行优异十字勋章(Distinguished Flying Cross)，以及其他荣誉。格伦在朝鲜战争中有更多表现，执行了94次战斗飞行任务，获得了更多奖章。
Then, in 1959, newly promoted to lieutenant colonel, he heeded a call for test pilots to apply to be astronauts for the fledgling National Aeronautics and Space Administration. He and six other pilots were selected in April of that year.
1959年，刚被提升为中校的格伦响应号召，作为试飞员申请成为刚成立的美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的宇航员。当年4月，他和另外六名飞行员被选中。
One night in December 1962, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy invited the Glenns to dinner at his home in McLean, Virginia. In the course of the evening, the attorney general suggested that Glenn run for public office.
1962年12月的一个晚上，司法部长罗伯特·F·肯尼迪(Robert F. Kennedy)邀请格伦夫妇在弗吉尼亚州麦克莱恩市自己家中共进晚餐。当晚，这位司法部长建议格伦竞选公职。
Glenn eventually took the advice. As a senator, Glenn developed an expertise in weapons systems, nuclear proliferation issues and most legislation related to technology and bureaucratic reform.
格伦最终听从了这个建议。作为参议员，格伦成为武器系统、核扩散问题以及大部分与技术和官僚体制改革相关的立法的专家。
The one blemish on Glenn’s squeaky-clean political reputation came in the 1980s, when he was one of five senators present at a meeting with federal regulators concerning accusations of savings and loan association fraud against Charles H. Keating Jr., a former Ohioan.
在格伦无可指摘的政治生涯中，唯一一个瑕疵出现在20世纪80年代。联邦监管机构指控前俄亥俄州人小查尔斯·H·基廷(Charles H. Keating Jr.)进行储蓄贷款联合诈骗，而格伦是出席其中一次调查会议的5名参议员之一。
In recent years, honors continued to come his way: the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Congressional Gold Medal and election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
近些年，格伦继续获得了更多荣誉，如总统自由勋章(Presidential Medal of Freedom)和国会金质奖章(Congressional Gold Medal)，他还被选入美国文理科学院(American Academy of Arts and Sciences)。
Glenn is survived by his wife; two children, Carolyn Ann Glenn of St. Paul, Minnesota, and John David Glenn of Berkeley, California; and two grandsons, Daniel and Zach Glenn.
格伦在世的亲人包括他的妻子；两个孩子：明尼苏达州圣保罗市的卡罗琳·安·格伦(Carolyn Ann Glenn)和加利福尼亚州伯克利市的约翰·戴维·格伦(John David Glenn)；以及两个孙子：丹尼尔和扎克·格伦(Daniel and Zach Glenn)。