Cable and streaming services are far outpacing broadcasters when it comes to including gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender characters in their shows.
有线电视台和流媒体的电视剧集中出现的男同、女同、双性恋和跨性别角色比电视网络要多得多。
That was the finding of an annual report by Glaad, released on Tuesday, that seeks to quantify lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender representation on television. The “Where We Are on TV” report assesses the presence of such characters in the 2015-16 season, defined as broadcast, cable and streaming shows expected to premiere between June 1, 2015, and May 31, 2016. (Scheduling changes could affect the figures.)
这是Glaad周二（10月27日）发布的年度报告中所提到的发现。这份报告主要是统计电视剧中出现的女同、男同、双性恋和跨性别角色的数量。这份名为《我们在电视上的位置》(Where We Are on TV)的报告研究的是2015年至2016年美剧季中（指的是电视网、有线电视台和流媒体预计在2015年6月1日至2016年3月31日首播的电视剧）这类角色的出现情况（节目安排的改变可能会影响统计数字的准确性）。
Glaad found that of the 881 regular characters scheduled to appear on prime-time broadcast television, 35, or 4 percent, were identified as gay, lesbian or bisexual. There are another 35 recurring characters — people who make multiple appearances in a series but are not part of the main cast — who fit that description.
Glaad发现，安排在电视网黄金时段出现的881名主要角色中有35名（4%）是同性恋或双性恋。另有35名多次出现的角色（不是主要角色）是同性恋或双性恋。
Scripted cable series will feature 84 regular lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender characters (up from 64 last season) and 58 recurring ones (up from 41). Original series premiering on the streaming services Amazon, Hulu and Netflix include 43 such series regulars and 16 recurring ones.
有线电视台电视剧的主要角色中将包括84名同性恋、双性恋和变性者（比上一季的64名有所上升），多次出现的角色中有58名此类人物（上一季是41名）。在亚马逊(Amazon)、Hulu网和Netflix网等流媒体上首播的原创电视剧中有43名主要角色和16名多次出现的角色属于这类人群。
Overall character counts and percentages are harder to tabulate in cable and streaming, said Matt Kane, Glaad’s director of entertainment media, because those programming slates are more fluid. Broadcasters tend to follow clearly defined seasonal schedules.
Glaad的娱乐媒体主管马特·凯恩(Matt Kane)说，总体来讲，有线电视台和流媒体的角色数量和比例更难统计，因为它们的节目安排变动性更大。电视网则往往会遵循每季明确设置的节目表。
This was the first year that the Glaad report included streaming series. (The report has been prepared since 2005.) Those shows notably included four transgender characters, with two leading roles on the Emmy-winning “Transparent,” the Amazon series about a transitioning patriarch, and “Sense8,” the Netflix thriller about a group of mysteriously interconnected people.
今年，Glaad首次将流媒体包含到统计中来（这份报告始于2005年）。值得注意的是，流媒体的电视剧中包括四名跨性别角色，其中两位还是《透明家庭》(Transparent)和《超感猎杀》(Sense8)的主角。前者是亚马逊推出的电视剧，讲述的是一位正在变性的家长，该剧获得了艾美奖；后者是Netflix推出的惊悚剧，讲述的是一群具有神秘联系的人。
There are no transgender characters on prime-time broadcast television, the report said, and three recurring transgender characters on cable.
该报告称，黄金时段的电视网剧集中没有跨性别角色，有线电视台电视剧中有三位多次出现的跨性别角色。
The number of bisexual characters rose on both broadcast and cable this year, but “many of these characters still fall into dangerous stereotypes about bisexual people,” the report noted. Such characters are often depicted as being immoral, manipulative or self-destructive, the report said.
该报告指出，今年，电视网和有线电视台的双性恋角色数量增多，但是“很多这类角色仍被老套地描绘成危险人物”。这些角色通常不道德，喜欢操纵别人，或者具有自杀倾向。
Of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender characters on television, most are gay men, the study found. These characters are also overwhelmingly white, ranging from 73 percent on streaming series to 69 percent in broadcast.
这项研究还发现，电视剧中的同性恋、双性恋和跨性别角色以男同性恋居多。而且这些角色绝大多数是白人，流媒体电视剧中的这类角色有73%是白人，电视网的这个比例是69%。