WASHINGTON — Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew on Wednesday announced the most sweeping and historically symbolic makeover of American currency in a century, proposing to replace the slaveholding Andrew Jackson on the $20 bill with Harriet Tubman, the former slave and abolitionist, and to add women and civil rights leaders to the $5 and $10 notes.
华盛顿——周三，美国财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)宣布了美国货币的改版方案，这是一个世纪以来规模最大、最具历史象征意义的改动，提议在20美元纸币上用一度为奴的废奴主义者哈丽雅特·塔布曼(Harriet Tubman)取代曾经蓄奴的安德鲁·杰克逊(Andrew Jackson)，此外还将在5美元和10美元纸币上加入女性和民权领袖。
Mr. Lew may have reneged on a commitment he made last year to make a woman the face of the $10 bill, opting instead to keep Alexander Hamilton, to the delight of a fan base swollen with enthusiasm over a Broadway rap musical named after and based on the life of the first Treasury secretary.
卢在去年曾承诺要在10美元纸币正面使用一个女性形象，现在看来他可能要食言，选择保留亚历山大·汉密尔顿(Alexander Hamilton)，这会让一部百老汇说唱音乐剧的狂热粉丝们十分开心，这部根据美国首任财政部长生平创作的音乐剧用了他的名字作剧名。
But the broader remaking of the nation’s paper currency, which President Obama welcomed on Wednesday, may well have captured a historical moment for a multicultural, multiethnic and multiracial nation moving contentiously through the early years of a new century.
然而从整体来看，随着这个多元文化、多民族、多种族国家在争吵中度过一个新世纪的最初几年，此次对国家纸币的改版，也许捕捉到了一个载入史册的时刻。
Tubman, an African-American and a Union spy during the Civil War, would bump Jackson — a white man known as much for his persecution of Native Americans as for his war heroics and advocacy for the common man — to the back of the $20, in some reduced image along with the White House. Tubman would be the first woman so honored on paper currency since Martha Washington’s portrait briefly graced the $1 silver certificate in the late 19th century.
塔布曼，一个非裔美国人，南北战争期间的联邦间谍，把杰克逊——一个白人男性，以骁勇善战、倡导民权著称，同时也留下了迫害美洲原住民的恶名——挤到了20美元的背面，缩小后和白宫图像放在一起。在19世纪末，玛莎·华盛顿(Martha Washington)的肖像曾短暂出现在1美元银元券上，塔布曼是此后首次有女性获得登上纸币的荣誉。
While Hamilton would remain on the $10, and Abraham Lincoln on the $5s, images of women would be added to the back of both — in keeping with Mr. Lew’s intent “to bring to life” the national monuments depicted there.
10美元上的汉密尔顿、5美元上的亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)都将保留，但两者的背面会加入女性形象，此举是为实现卢的目标——给背面所描绘的国家史迹“注入生命”。
The picture of the Treasury building on the back of the $10 bill would be replaced with a depiction of a 1913 march in support of women’s right to vote that ended at the building, along with portraits of five suffrage leaders: Lucretia Mott, Sojourner Truth, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Alice Paul and Susan B. Anthony, who in more recent years was on an unpopular $1 coin until minting ceased.
对1913年支持妇女投票权游行的描绘，将取代10美元背面的财政部大楼，当时的游行就是以这座大楼为终点，此外还将加入女性参政运动领袖的肖像，分别是露柯丽霞·莫特(Lucretia Mott)、索杰娜·楚斯(Sojourner Truth)、伊丽莎白·凯蒂·斯坦顿(Elizabeth Cady Stanton)、艾丽丝·保罗(Alice Paul)和苏珊·B·安瑟尼(Susan B. Anthony)，其中安瑟尼在较晚近的年代曾经出现在一种流传不广的1美元硬币上，后来停止了铸造。
On the flip side of the $5 bill, the Lincoln Memorial would remain, but as the backdrop for the 1939 performance there of Marian Anderson, the African-American classical singer, after she was barred from singing at the segregated Constitution Hall nearby. Sharing space on the rear would be images of Eleanor Roosevelt, who arranged Anderson’s Lincoln Memorial performance, and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who in 1963 delivered his “I have a dream” speech from its steps.
5美元纸币的背面仍有林肯纪念堂，但只是玛丽安·安德森(Marian Anderson)在1939年的一场演出的背景，这位非裔美国古典歌唱家当时被禁止在附近那座实施种族隔离的宪政大厅演唱。和她一同出现的还有促成林肯纪念堂演出的埃莉诺·罗斯福(Eleanor Roosevelt)，以及1963年在纪念堂台阶上发表“我有一个梦想”演说的牧师小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)博士。
The final redesigns will be unveiled in 2020, the centennial of the 19th Amendment establishing women’s suffrage, and will not go into wide circulation until later in the decade, starting with the new $10 note. The unexpectedly ambitious proposals reflect Mr. Lew’s tortuous attempt to expedite the process and win over critics who have lodged conflicting demands, pitting mainly women’s advocates against Hamiltonians newly empowered by the unlikely success of their hero’s story on Broadway.
设计方案终稿将于2020年公布，也就是宪法第19修正案确立女性参政权100周年的时候，并在接下来的10年里开始广泛流通，最先开始的将是新版10美元纸币。方案的规模之庞大是出人意料的，表明卢为了加快进程、争得持对立立场的批评者的认可，经历了许多波折，冲突主要发生在女性权益倡导者和汉密尔顿拥趸之间，后者因为自己心目中的英雄最近出乎意料地在百老汇大热，显得底气十足。
Mr. Lew’s design proposals are the culmination of 10 months of often-heated public commentary that began almost immediately after he invited Americans last June to help him decide which woman from history to honor on the $10 bill. That feel-good initiative proved to be hardly as simple as he first imagined.
卢的设计方案结束了一场历时10个月、时有激烈争吵的公众评议，它的起点是去年6月，当时他邀请美国人民帮他决定，该把登上10美元的荣誉授予历史上哪位女性。结果这个哄人开心的举动并没有像他预想得那么简单。
Immediately an online group called Women on 20s insisted that the woman to be honored — Tubman was its choice — had to go on the more common $20 note, displacing not the popular Hamilton but Jackson, whose place in history has suffered lately with attention to his record of forcibly relocating Native Americans, supporting slavery and — despite his prominence on currency — opposing a national banking system and paper money. But the $10 was next in line for redesign, based on federal officials’ assessment of counterfeiting threats.
很快就有一个名为“20美元纸币上的女性”(Women On 20s)的网络团体提出，女性应该登上更常用的20美元纸币，具体人选则是塔布曼，这样一来被替换的将不是受人爱戴的汉密尔顿，而是杰克逊，后者曾经强令原住民迁移、支持蓄奴，并且——尽管被显赫地摆在货币上——反对国家银行体制和纸币，近年来历史地位出现动摇。但是根据联邦官员对伪造威胁的评估，接下来应该改版的是10美元纸币。
Yet other women mobilized by the Girls’ Lounge, a networking organization for female corporate leaders, demanded that a woman go on the $10 note, as Mr. Lew first proposed, because they did not want to wait years for a new $20 bill. Within the administration, Rosie Rios, who as treasurer of the United States oversees the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, was also pushing for a woman on the $10 bill.
在女性企业领袖人脉组织“女孩休息室”(Girl’s Lounge)的动员下，还有一些女性要求依照卢最初的提议，在10美元纸币上使用女性形象，因为她们不想等上很多年才能等到20美元出新版。在政府内部，掌管铸印局(Bureau of Engraving and Printing)的财政部出纳局长罗茜·里奥斯(Rosie Rios)也主张在10美元上使用女性形象。
But nothing so roiled the debate as the phenomenon of the musical “Hamilton.”
然而音乐剧《汉密尔顿》(Hamilton)的火爆给这场争论造成的冲击是无与伦比的。
Weighing in for his place on the $10 bill were well-to-do theater patrons and teenagers rapping to the soundtrack, as well as the show’s creator and star, Lin-Manuel Miranda. When Mr. Lew and his wife caught a performance last August, the Treasury secretary hinted to Mr. Miranda that Hamilton would stay. Just this week, the show won the Pulitzer Prize for drama.
从衣食无忧的戏迷到跟着原声录音一起说唱的少年，乃至该剧主创和主演林-马努艾尔·米兰达(Lin-Manuel Miranda)，大家都在为10美元上的汉密尔顿说话。去年8月有人看到卢和妻子去看了演出，当时这位财政部长向米兰达暗示会保留汉密尔顿。本周，该剧刚刚获得普利策最佳戏剧奖。
By July, in fact, Mr. Lew already had decided to keep his long-ago predecessor on the $10 note, and put a vignette of suffragists on the back, with Tubman scheduled for the $20 bill and changes to the $5 note as well.
事实上，卢在7月就已经决定把这位许多年前的前任留在10美元上，在背面放妇女参政论者的画像，并计划在20美元上使用塔布曼，对5美元也做出改动。
“I had a kind of ‘aha’ moment where I said we’re thinking too small,” Mr. Lew said on Wednesday.
“我突然有了个主意，我觉得我们把这事想得太小了，”卢在周三说。
He decided to redesign all three notes to accommodate the various views, and sooner. As for the choice of Tubman, he said that in the public comments he reviewed each night, “the pattern became clear that Harriet Tubman struck a chord with people in all parts of the country, of all ages.”
他决定把三种纸币全部重新设计，以适应各方的立场，并且要加快进行。至于选择塔布曼的决定，他说他每晚都在看公众评议，“倾向渐渐明确起来，哈丽雅特·塔布曼打动了全国各地、各年龄层的人。”
“This is a good solution,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who wrote to the secretary “strongly suggesting he not remove Hamilton” from the bill.
“这是个不错的解决方案，”缅因州共和党参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)说，她曾致信部长“强烈建议把汉密尔顿留在”钞票上。
Mr. Lew directed the Bureau of Engraving and Printing to hasten the redesign of the $20 and $5 notes at the same time. Subsequent production of the $10 bill would take precedence, though Mr. Lew said all three notes could be in wallets before 2030. The final decision on release is up to the Fed.
卢指示铸印局同时加快新版20和5美元的设计工作。10美元会率先进入后续的生产环节，不过卢表示三种纸币应该都能在2030年前出现在人们的钱包里。纸币发行的最终决定权在美联储手中。