A major maker of solar panels opened another chapter in a long-simmering trade dispute on Tuesday, asking the Commerce Department to impose new duties on imported modules made of certain components from China or Taiwan.
周二，一家大型太阳能电池板制造公司为长期胶着的贸易争端翻开了新的篇章，要求美国商务部(Commerce Department)对利用来自中国或台湾的某些零件所制造的进口组件征收新关税。
The petition, brought by SolarWorld Industries America, is intended to close a loophole in the United States decision to impose duties on imported Chinese modules.
此次申诉由太阳能世界工业（美国）公司(SolarWorld Industries America)提出。此前，美国决定对从中国进口的太阳能组件征税，这个申诉是为了弥补该决定中的一个漏洞。
Should the petition go forward, it could effectively block Chinese manufacturers from the American market, said Shayle Kann, vice president of research at GTM Research, which tracks clean-tech industries.
跟踪研究清洁能源技术行业的市场研究机构GTM Research的副总裁舍勒·卡恩(Shayle Kann)表示，如果这个申诉得到通过，它就能有效阻止中国制造商进入美国市场。
In 2012, the United States issued final rulings that Chinese solar companies had received unfair subsidies from their government and dumped products on the American market below costs. But the duties, roughly 24 to 36 percent, applied only to panels made from Chinese solar cells, the final major parts that are assembled into finished modules.
2012年，美国发布的最终裁决称，中国太阳能公司得到了该国政府的不公平补贴，以低于成本的价格在美国市场倾销产品。但是，这些约为24%到36%的关税只适用于由中国太阳能电池制成的电池组件。太阳能电池是组装太阳能组件成品所需的最终重要部件。
As a result, many Chinese companies were able to avoid the duties by assembling panels from cells produced elsewhere, especially in Taiwan, even if those cells were derived from components — called ingots and wafers — from China. Should SolarWorld win the case, modules made from Taiwanese cells or cells made from Chinese ingots or wafers would be subject to duties as well.
所以，许多中国公司都通过使用其他地方——尤其是台湾制造的电池组装太阳能电池板而成功避税，虽然这些电池又是由被称作钢锭和晶片的中国部件制造而成的。如果太阳能世界获胜，由台湾电池或中国钢锭和晶片制成的电池所制造的组件都将需要缴税。
“We’re finishing the job of presenting the facts to our trade regulators to prevent China from further damaging yet another manufacturing industry and another rich base of employment,” Mukesh Dulani, president of SolarWorld Industries America, said in a statement. “China obviously recognizes the key importance of solar technology manufacturing to future economic competitiveness. But we do, too.”
“我们正在向我们的贸易管理者提交事实证据，希望能阻止中国对制造业的另一个行业及另一个就业大户造成进一步损害，”太阳能世界工业（美国）公司总裁穆克什·杜拉尼(Mukesh Dulani)在声明中称。“中国明显意识到了太阳能科技制造业对未来经济竞争力的重要作用。但我们也意识到了这一点。”
Under federal regulations, the Commerce Department is required to consider the petition, and is to determine whether to investigate around the middle of January. China is continuing to pursue imposing duties on American polysilicon, the base compound for conventional solar panels; the country negotiated a settlement with the European Union over similar trade complaints in July.
根据联邦规定，商务部有义务考虑前述申诉，而且它还将决定是否要在1月中旬前后展开调查。中国仍试图对美国的多晶硅征税。多晶硅是传统太阳能电池板的基本组成部分；2013年7月，中国与欧盟就类似贸易申诉达成了和解协议。
SolarWorld, the American subsidiary of a German company, has found support for its case among some solar employers in the United States, where many manufacturers have been squeezed to the brink of bankruptcy and beyond by fierce competition from China. But the main industry trade group expressed disappointment with the new petition and called for renewed negotiations.
太阳能世界工业（美国）公司是一家德国公司的子公司，它的申诉得到了一些美国太阳能公司的支持。在美国，许多制造商都因为来自中国的激烈竞争而濒临破产，有些公司的情况甚至更糟。但是，相关的主要行业协会表示对这个新申诉感到失望，要求重新进行协商。
“Trade litigation is a blunt instrument and, alone, incapable of resolving the complex competitiveness issues that exist between the U.S. and Chinese solar industries,” Rhone Resch, chief executive of the Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group, said in a statement.
行业组织太阳能行业协会(Solar Energy Industries Association)的主席罗恩·雷施(Rhone Resch)在声明中称，“贸易诉讼是种粗率的手段，单凭它并不能解决中美两国太阳能行业之间的复杂竞争问题。”
Robert Petrina, managing director of Yingli Green Energy Americas, a division of a leading Chinese manufacturer, said in an email message that the company would “fight this just as vigorously as we did the first case.”
隶属于一家主要中国制造公司的英利绿色能源美洲分公司(Yingli Green Energy Americas)的总经理罗伯特·彼得林(Robert Petrin)在电子邮件中说，公司会“像在第一个案件中那样积极地抗争”。
In Europe, Mr. Kann of GTM Research said, negotiations resulted in a set price floor and volume quota for Chinese panels, “so it’s possible you could end up with something similar here.”
在欧洲，GTM Research的卡恩说，通过协商，他们给中国的电池板规定了价格下限和数量限制，“所以这里的结果可能最终也差不多”。
The Chinese embassy in Washington did not respond to an email seeking comment.
中国驻华盛顿大使馆没有回复要求置评的电子邮件。