NEW DELHI — Two dozen revved-up television crews were clustered outside a V.I.P. exit at Indira Gandhi International Airport on Friday, waiting for the flight from New York. They had been in place for two hours, and every time a trickle of passengers came into view, they all jumped up and pressed their cameras against the glass.
新德里——周五，二三十名电视台工作人员兴奋地聚集在英迪拉·甘地国际机场(Indira Gandhi International Airport)的一个贵宾出口外，等待一架来自纽约的航班。他们已经严阵以待了两个小时，每当有几名乘客进入视野，他们就急忙把镜头贴到玻璃幕墙上。
Few passengers in recent memory could match the celebrity of Devyani Khobragade, the diplomat who was arrested on charges of visa fraud and making false statements in New York in connection with her treatment of a domestic worker. When Ms. Khobragade’s father appeared — she had been spirited away through another door — he beamed at the cameras, and told them, “I am impressed by your love and affection.”
最近一段时间以来，还没有哪位乘客的阵势可以比得上德芙雅尼·霍布拉加德(Devyani Khobragade)——这名外交官因为签证欺诈和虚假陈述而在纽约被捕，这些罪名与她给家政工人的待遇有关。当其父出现时——霍布拉加德已被人从另外一个出口迅速带走——他面对镜头露出笑容，并告诉记者，“你们的深情厚谊让我感动。”
Ms. Khobragade’s return seemingly brought to a climax a monthlong diplomatic spat between the United States and India that at times threatened to open a breach in the countries’ relations. While American prosecutors stood firm, India removed security barriers at the United States Embassy in New Delhi, canceled the embassy’s food and alcohol import privileges, and issued new identity cards to American consular employees and their families specifying that they could be arrested for serious offenses.
霍布拉加德的回国似乎把美国和印度持续了一个月的外交风波带向了一个高潮。而这场风波多次险些导致两国关系出现裂痕。美国检方立场坚定，而印度也移走了美国驻新德里大使馆的安全屏障，取消了使馆进口食品和酒类的特权，并为美国领事馆的雇员及其家人发放了新的身份证明，上面特别注明，如果有严重违法行为，他们将会被逮捕。
Only on Friday, with the reluctant agreement from the State Department to expel a diplomat of equal rank from its embassy in New Delhi, was the matter seemingly resolved.
直到周五，美国国务院勉强同意撤回驻新德里大使馆的一名同级外交官，这件事似乎才算得到解决。
Yet the incident has uncovered a gaping cultural disconnect between the world’s two largest democracies. While Americans reflexively came to the defense of a maid who the authorities said was subjected to abuse, Indians reflexively sympathized with the diplomat.
然而，这起偶然事件暴露出了世界上两个最大民主国家在文化上的巨大鸿沟。美国本能地保护一名其当局称受到虐待的女佣，而印度人也本能地同情本国的外交官。
This is partly because middle- and upper-class Indians typically have their own servants, who often work long hours for far less than the $573 a month that Ms. Khobragade had promised to pay. But the bigger reason, especially compelling in an election year, is national pride. In the month that has passed since Ms. Khobragade’s arrest, she has been transformed into a symbol of India’s sovereignty, pushed around and humiliated by an arrogant superpower.
这其中的部分原因是，处在社会中上层的印度人一般都有自己的佣人。这些佣人的工作时间很长，而工资远低于霍布拉加德承诺的每月573美元（约合人民币3400元）。但更主要的原因是民族自尊心，而这在选举年格外引人关注。在霍布拉加德被逮捕后的一个月里，她已经成为了受到一个傲慢的超级大国摆布和羞辱的印度主权的象征。
“There is always this sense, since the end of the Soviet Union, that America is too big for its britches,” said Sandip Roy, senior editor at Firstpost, a news website. “What happened to Devyani is seen in a larger, cosmic sense as that kind of unilateral thing, like, ‘I will go and invade Afghanistan, and I don’t care what anyone thinks.' ”
Firstpost新闻网站的高级编辑桑迪普·罗伊(Sandip Roy)说，“自从苏联解体之后，总是有这种感觉，那就是美国太骄傲自大了。德芙雅尼的遭遇被无限地放大了，被看做了一种单边行为，类似于， ‘我要侵略阿富汗，我不在乎别人怎么想’。”
The dispute was brought to a rapid finish in the last 72 hours, in what appeared to be an effort by American officials to relax tensions.
在过去的72个小时里，这次纠纷很快归于平静，这似乎是因为美国官员为缓解紧张关系所做的一次努力。
Daniel N. Arshack, Ms. Khobragade’s lawyer in New York, agreed that once negotiations with prosecutors broke down last weekend, “this week turned into a focus on diplomatic solutions.” Mr. Arshack said that his client’s husband, a college professor, and two young daughters, ages 4 and 7, who are all American citizens, had remained in New York.
霍布拉加德在纽约的律师丹尼尔·N·阿沙克(Daniel N. Arshack)曾同意，上周末与检方的谈判破裂之后，“本周的关注焦点将是外交解决方案”。阿沙克说，霍布拉加德的丈夫——一名大学教授，以及两个年幼的女儿——一个四岁一个七岁，皆为美国公民，目前仍在纽约。
The domestic worker, Sangeeta Richard, told prosecutors that she was forced to work 94 to 109 hours a week, with limited breaks for calls and meals, according to an indictment handed up on Thursday in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Last summer, it said, Ms. Richard told Ms. Khobragade that she was unhappy with the work conditions and wanted to return home, but her employer refused the request and would not return her passport.
上周四提交给曼哈顿的联邦地区法院的起诉书称，这个名叫桑吉塔·理查德(Sangeeta Richard)的家政工告诉检察官，她被迫每周工作94到109个小时，而且这些时间里打电话和吃饭的休息时间有限。文中还称，去年夏天，理查德告诉霍布拉加德，她对工作环境不满，希望回国，但遭到雇主的拒绝，并被扣押了护照。
Ms. Khobragade was arrested Dec. 12 when she was dropping off her daughters at school, and charged with misrepresenting Ms. Richard’s pay to obtain a work visa for a housekeeper. Indian newspapers reported that she was strip-searched, something Indians found especially offensive, and then kept in a police holding pen with drug addicts before being released on bond. India responded with a raft of retaliatory steps, including the removal of security barriers around the embassy in New Delhi, and the case was the lead story in the Indian news media for weeks.
霍布拉加德于12月12日在送女儿上学时被捕，被控虚报理查德的工资金额以获取家政工的工作签证。印度报章刊文指出，她遭到脱衣搜身，然后被关在警局里，与瘾君子一起，最后才得以保释。对搜身一事，印度人觉得尤为无礼。作为回应，印度采取了一系列报复性措施，包括移除美国驻新德里大使馆周围的安全屏障。这一案件在数周时间里成为了印度新闻媒体的头条。
On Wednesday, India granted Ms. Khobragade the full immunity and privileges of a diplomat, a set of rights not accorded those posted in consulates, as she was at the time of the arrest. Though the United States appealed to India to waive that immunity, India refused, and transferred her to a new position at the Foreign Ministry in Delhi. The State Department then told her to leave the United States, which she did Thursday night.
上周三，印度授予尚在被捕状态的霍布拉加德完整的外交豁免权和其他特权。这些权利之前并不适用于领事馆的职位。尽管印度接到了美国提出的收回豁免权的请求，却予以了回绝，并将她调至德里的印度外交部的新职位上。美国国务院随后要求她离境，于是她于周四晚间离开。
Ms. Richard, in a statement issued through Safe Horizon, a victim services agency that has been representing her in New York, said that she was disappointed to learn that Ms. Khobragade had left the United States. “I stood up for my rights as a worker and I only wish that Defendant Khobragade would stand up in court and address the charges against her,” Ms. Richard said.
理查德通过代理其纽约事务的受害者服务组织安全领域(Safe Horizon)发表声明称，得知霍布拉加德已离开美国让她感到失望。“作为劳工，我捍卫了自己的权利。我只希望被告霍布拉加德出庭回应针对她的指控，”理查德说。
One thing that has baffled American observers — in particular Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan — is why there is so little outrage about the treatment of Ms. Richard. In fact, Indian newspapers routinely carry articles about abuse of domestic workers, and many people interviewed said the sympathy would have been with the accuser had the case occurred in India.
让美国观察人士——尤其是驻曼哈顿的联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)——不解的是，为何对理查德遭遇的愤慨少得可怜？实际上，印度报纸常年刊载家政工遭虐待的报道，而且不少受访人士称，如果本案发生在印度，舆论会同情原告。
But because it emerged in the United States, and Ms. Khobragade represented India, many people interviewed saw her treatment as a humiliation for the country.
不过，由于是在美国，霍布拉加德又代表了印度，许多受访者认为，她的遭遇是对印度的羞辱。
“You have to take Devyani out of this, the support is for her position,” said Subhajit Sengupta, one of the journalists who camped outside Terminal 3. “What she has done is wrong. What the U.S. has done is also wrong. Since what the U.S. has done is against a country, it will be taken as a matter of prestige.”
“不能只看德芙雅尼本人，大家支持的是她的处境，”在三号航站楼外蹲点的记者之一苏哈吉特·森古普塔(Subhajit Sengupta)说。“她的行为是错误的。美国的行为也是错误的。由于美国的作法针对的是一个国家，这就会被看成是荣誉问题。”
Shweta Bajaj, one of the journalists who spent Friday night staking the diplomat out, said she had been shocked and a little mystified by the intensity of the attention given to the Khobragade case this winter. She said it was the first time in her career as a journalist that she had seen India “make such a stand against America.”
周五整晚等待她出现的另一名记者什韦塔·巴贾杰(Shweta Bajaj)则表示，对于今冬霍布拉加德案受到的密切关注，她感到颇为震惊，还有点困惑。她自称这是其记者生涯中首次看到印度“在面对美国时坚持立场”。
“It’s not even Pakistan,” she said.
“而且还都不涉及巴基斯坦，”她说。