Chimpanzees are not people, no matter how they are dressed up for commercials, but perhaps they are close enough that they deserve some of the same rights humans have.
黑猩猩不是人，不管它们在广告片里打扮得多漂亮，它们也不是人，不过也许它们与人类足够接近，所以应该享有一些人类具有的权利。
That is what an animal rights group claimed on Monday when it filed a classic writ of habeas corpus, that revered staple of American and English law and tired cliché of detective fiction — not for a person held unlawfully, but for Tommy, a chimpanzee in Gloversville, N.Y.
这就是一家动物权益组织周一提请法庭动用经典的人身保护令(habeas corpus)时的主张，人身保护令是英美法律中深受尊崇的支柱，也是侦探小说中惯用的陈词，但此次请求不是为了一位被非法拘禁的人，而是为了汤米(Tommy)，纽约州格洛沃斯维尔的一只黑猩猩。
This is no stunt. The Nonhuman Rights Project has been working on this legal strategy for years, sifting through decisions in all 50 states to find one that is strong on what is called common law, and one that recognizes animals as legal persons for the purpose of being the beneficiary of a trust.
这不是做秀。名为“非人类的权利项目”(Nonhuman Rights Project)的组织多年来一直致力于运用这个法律策略，他们仔细阅读全美50个州的大量判决书，从中寻找一个在被称为普通法的法典上很强的州，一个为了让动物作为信托受益者，将动物视为法人的州。
The leader of the project, Steven M. Wise, who has written about the history of habeas corpus writs in the fight against human slavery and who views the crusade for animal rights as a lifelong project, said New York fit the bill. His legal action added a milestone to a year that has already been remarkable for chimpanzees, with one federal agency taking steps to retire most chimps owned by the government and another proposing to classify all chimps as endangered, an action that would throw up new obstacles to experiments even on privately owned chimps.
这个组织的负责人史蒂文·M·怀斯(Steven M. Wise)曾写过有关在人类废奴斗争中运用人身保护令的历史，他将动物权利运动视为毕生的事业，他说纽约州是符合他们要求的州。他的法律行动，为对黑猩猩来说已经是很重要的一年，增添了一个里程碑；在这一年中，一家联邦机构采取行动，让政府拥有的大部分黑猩猩退休；另一家机构则提出将黑猩猩定为濒危物种，这将给用黑猩猩做实验制造更多的障碍，包括用私人拥有的黑猩猩做实验。
Activists have relished their successes, while some scientists have deplored restrictions on the use of the animals, which have played a crucial role in some biomedical research, such as work on hepatitis C vaccines.
活动人士以他们的胜利为乐，而一些科学家则对动物使用的限制深表遗憾，动物实验在某些生物医学研究中起着至关重要的作用，例如研制丙型肝炎疫苗的工作。
Until now, all the actions have addressed the issue of animal welfare, not animal rights. But Mr. Wise filed papers on Monday in State Supreme Court in Fulton County, N.Y., demanding that courts in New York recognize Tommy as a legal person, with a right to liberty, but one that has its limits.
迄今为止，所有的行动针对的都是动物的福祉，而不是动物的权利。但怀斯在周一向位于纽约州富尔顿县的州最高法院提交了法律文件，要求纽约州法院将汤米作为法人对待，让其享有自由权，虽然是有限度的自由权。
Tommy, the group says, “is being held captive in a cage in a shed at a used-trailer lot.”
该组织称，汤米“被囚禁在一个二手拖车停车场内的一座棚屋里的笼子里”。
The petition does not ask the court to set Tommy free to roam Gloversville, or to send him back to Africa after a life in captivity. It asks the court to remove him from his owners and place him in a sanctuary.
诉状并不要求法庭赋予汤米在格洛沃维尔四处游荡的自由，或将其送回非洲，汤米有生以来都是在笼内圈养的。诉状要求法庭把汤米从他的主人那里带走，将其转移到一个庇护地去。
The group said it intended to file suit later this week on behalf of three more chimps in New York, also demanding their freedom. Two of the chimpanzees are believed to be owned by the New Iberia Research Center, at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette, but are housed at Stony Brook University for a study of locomotion. The fourth, according to the rights project, is owned by Carmen Presti of Niagara Falls, who runs the Primate Sanctuary, a nonprofit organization that has monkeys and the one chimpanzee.
该组织说本周晚些时候他们还打算代表纽约州的另外三只黑猩猩提交诉状，要求也赋予它们自由。其中有两只黑猩猩据信属路易斯安那大学拉斐特分校(University of Louisiana at Lafayette)的新伊比利亚研究中心(New Iberia Research Center)所有，但是目前养在石溪大学(Stony Brook University)，被用于一项运动力研究。据该组织称，第四只黑猩猩属尼亚加拉瀑布市（美）的卡门·普莱斯蒂(Carmen Presti)所有，她运作一家非营利的灵长类动物庇护所，那里有一些猴子和一只黑猩猩。
Patrick C. Lavery, the owner of Circle L Trailer Sales in Gloversville, where Tommy lives, said he heard about the petition from reporters’ telephone calls. He said from his home in Florida that he had complied with all state and federal regulations, that Tommy had a spacious cage “with tons of toys,” and that he had been trying to place him in sanctuaries, but that they had no room. He said he had rescued the chimp from his previous home, where he was badly treated.
汤米居住的格洛沃斯维尔的L圈拖车卖场(Circle L Trailer Sales)的业主叫帕特里克·C·拉弗里(Patrick C. Lavery)，他说他是从给自己打电话的记者口中得知诉状的。他从自己位于佛罗里达的家中对记者说，他遵循所有的纽约州和联邦法规，汤米的笼子有很大的空间，“里面还有一大堆玩具”，他还说自己曾尝试把汤米送到庇护所去，但庇护所都没有空间接收它。他说自己把这个黑猩猩从它以前住的地方解救出来，它在那里遭到过虐待。
“People ought to use common sense,” he said. Of the Nonhuman Rights Project, a group he was not aware of, he said, “If they were to see where this chimp lived for the first 30 years of his life, they would jump up and down for joy about where he is now.”
“人们应该运用常识，”他说。他没听说过非人类的权利项目，但他说，“如果他们看过这只黑猩猩在其有生以来的前30年住的地方，那他们会为它现在住的地方高兴得上蹦下跳。”
The other people who are named in the petitions being filed this week did not immediately comment.
本周提交的诉状中提到的其他几个人没有马上对此事置评。
The use of habeas corpus actions is a time-honored legal strategy for addressing unlawful imprisonment of human beings. Mr. Wise argues in a 70-plus-page memo rich with legal, scientific and philosophical references that being human is not essential to having rights. He argues that captive chimps are, in fact, enslaved, and that the same principles apply to them as to humans who were enslaved.
运用人身保护令是一个历史悠久的解决人的非法拘禁问题的法律战略。怀斯在一份长达70多页的备忘录中，用丰富的法律、科学和哲学文献论据，论证了作为人类不是享有该权利的必要条件。他辩称，圈养的黑猩猩在事实上是被奴役的，所以适用于被奴役人类的原则同样适用于它们。
“This petition asks this court to issue a writ recognizing that Tommy is not a legal thing to be possessed by respondents, but rather is a cognitively complex autonomous legal person with the fundamental legal right not to be imprisoned,” the court filing says.
提交给法庭的文件称，“本诉状要求本法庭发令，承认汤米不是被告占有的合法财物，而是拥有复杂认知的自主法人，享有不被拘禁的基本法定权利。”
Mr. Wise is not asking the courts to declare the chimps equivalent to human beings, any more than a corporation, also considered a legal person, is a human being. Because the rights group has set up a trust for all four chimps, they are already legal persons under New York law, he argues.
怀斯不是要求法庭宣布黑猩猩与人类等同，正如公司作为法人并非与人类等同一样。他提出理由说，因为他们的组织已经为所有四只黑猩猩设立了一个信托基金，根据纽约的法律，它们已经都是法人了。
He also marshals evidence from various scientists that a chimpanzee has qualities, including awareness of self, past and future, that should provide it with a right to bodily liberty.
他还提交了大量的来自多位科学家的证据，表明黑猩猩具有多项素质，包括有自我意识、知道过去和未来，所以应该让其享有身体自由权。
The request is not for the chimps to be set completely free, but to be moved to one of the eight sanctuaries in the North American Primate Sanctuary Alliance.
该请求并不是要让黑猩猩获得完全的自由，而是要它们转移到北美灵长类动物庇护地联盟(North American Primate Sanctuary Alliance)的八个庇护地之一去。
David S. Favre, a professor at Michigan State University College of Law, who teaches animal law but is not associated with the rights project or the legal action, said Mr. Wise’s arguments are “a serious legal strategy,” though one that had not been tried before in the United States. “It is unique,” Mr. Favre said. He added, however, that he would not comment on its chances of success.
在歇根州立大学法学院(Michigan State University College of Law)讲授动物法的教授戴维·S·法夫尔(David S. Favre)说，怀斯的论据是“一个严肃的法律策略”，不过该策略之前从未在美国试过。法夫尔说，“这是前无古人之举”，但他补充说，他不会就这个策略的成功概率置评。
Laurence H. Tribe, a professor at Harvard Law School, said in an email that in seeking rights for nonhuman animals, “The classic writ of habeas corpus is as good a place to begin as any.”
哈佛大学法学院教授劳伦斯·H·特赖布(Laurence H. Tribe)在一封电子邮件中表示，在为非人类的动物寻求权利时，“经典的人身保护令是和任何法令一样好的起点。”
Though it has been used only on humans, he said, “that need not be decisive if one remembers that the central point of the writ is to impose the restraints of law on those who wield power in the people’s name.”
他说，尽管人身保护令此前只适用于人类，“但那不是决定性的，如果人们记得该保护令的核心是要对那些以人民的名义行使权力的人施加法律约束的话。”
Enormous changes have occurred worldwide in how chimps are viewed and treated. Only the United States and Gabon allow biomedical experiments on the animals, and the United States is working to phase them out. But the human responsibility to lessen activities that are seen as cruel is far different from conferring chimps with rights under the law — a move that would, among other things, distinguish them from other animals.
在如何看待和对待黑猩猩的问题上，世界上已经发生了巨大的变化。只有美国和加蓬允许用黑猩猩做生物医学实验，美国正致力于逐步淘汰这类实验。但人类努力减少被视为残忍行为的责任，仅靠授予黑猩猩法定权利还远不能满足，虽然这样做以及其他一些做法，将会让黑猩猩有别于其他动物。
Still, the legal action is not unprecedented. Chimps were granted certain legal rights by the Spanish Parliament in 2008, and sporadic efforts in other countries, like India, have had some successes.
其实，这个法律行动并非没有先例。2008年，西班牙议会授予黑猩猩一定的法律权利。包括印度在内的其他一些国家的零星努力也取得了一些成功。