WASHINGTON — The Senate voted Tuesday to ban the use of torture, moving to ensure that the government does not return to interrogation techniques like waterboarding.
华盛顿——美国参议院周二投票禁止刑讯逼供，将采取措施确保政府不再利用水刑一类的审问技巧。
In a vote of 78 to 21, senators approved an amendment to a defense authorization bill that would restrict all government entities, not just the military, to using only the interrogation techniques described in the Army Field Manual.
参议员们以78票对21票的结果通过了国防授权议案的一项修正案，据此，包括军方在内的任何政府机构将只能使用《陆军战地手册》(Army Field Manual)所载的审问技巧。
The amendment would enshrine in law an executive order that President Obama signed in 2009 permitting only noncoercive interrogation methods.
奥巴马总统在2009年签署的一项行政命令规定，审讯只能使用非强迫性手段，而这项修正案将政令固化为法律。
“I believe past interrogation policies compromised our values, stained our national honor and did little practical good,” said Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, who was a sponsor of the measure. “This amendment provides greater assurances that never again will the United States follow that dark path of sacrificing our values for our short-term security needs.”
“我相信过去的审问策略违背了我们的价值观，这不仅玷污了国家的尊严，也没有实质效益。”支持该措施的亚利桑那州共和党参议员、参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)主席约翰‧麦凯恩(John McCain)说。“修正案进一步确保美国将不再为短期安定而走上牺牲价值观的黑暗道路。”
The provision, which was supported by all Senate Democrats and 32 Republicans, would also codify an executive order by Mr. Obama requiring that the Red Cross be granted access to detainees in American custody.
修正案条款获得了民主党全体参议员与32位共和党参议员的支持。奥巴马总统的另一项行政命令也被编入法律，该行政命令让红十字会(Red Cross)得以接触被美国关押的人员。
The amendment briefly looked as though it could become mired in the opposition to the broader defense authorization bill, as Democrats threatened to hold the measure up if Republicans did not agree to increase nonmilitary spending. But the Senate voted to end debate on Tuesday, moving toward a final vote on the more than $600 billion bill.
该修正案曾一度因为两党在增加非军费支出问题上的分歧而陷入泥沼：民主党人士警告称若共和党反对增加非军费支出，将搁置对国防授权议案的扩增。但参议院在周二投票终止了针对军费开支问题的辩论，让这个超过6000亿美元的议案得以进行最终表决。
A 2005 law prohibited the Pentagon from using harsh interrogation methods. Those restrictions did not apply to the C.I.A. and other agencies until Mr. Obama issued his executive order.
2005年颁布的一部法律禁止五角大楼使用酷刑审问。但这些限制在奥巴马总统签署行政命令前，并不适用于中央情报局与其他机构。
The absence of a broader law means that a future president could overturn the executive order.
如果没有涉及面更广的法律，未来的总统可以撤回这个行政命令。
Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, who sponsored the measure with Mr. McCain, said the amendment would ensure that lawmakers, not government lawyers, set the parameters for interrogations.
加利福尼亚州参议员黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)是民主党在参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)的首要人物，和麦凯恩一同支持这项修正案。她说修正案能够确保设立审问标准的是立法者，而不是政府律师。
The Intelligence Committee released a scathing report in December condemning the C.I.A. for actions during the George W. Bush administration. Included were what it called the agency’s brutal treatment of detainees, a lack of oversight over its secret prisons worldwide, and routine misleading of the White House and Congress about what it had collected through interrogations.
情报委员会在去年十二月发布报告，严厉指责中情局自乔治‧W‧布什(George W. Bush)总统任期以来的行为。委员会的指控包括中情局粗暴对待被关押人员、疏于管理其在全球所设的秘密监狱，屡屡就刑讯逼供的情报收集效果对白宫与国会加以误导。
A C.I.A. spokesman declined to comment on the amendment.
中情局发言人拒绝就修正案置评。