WASHINGTON — Intensifying sectarian and clan violence has presented new opportunities for jihadist groups across the Middle East and raised concerns among American intelligence and counterterrorism officials that militants aligned with Al Qaeda could establish a base in Syria capable of threatening Israel and Europe.
华盛顿——教派、宗派间的暴力冲突激化，为圣战组织在整个中东地区的活动创造了新的机会，也让美国情报和反恐官员越发忧虑，与“基地”组织(Al Qaeda)相关的武装分子可能在叙利亚扎下了根，进而有能力威胁以色列和欧洲。
The new signs of an energized but fragmented jihadist threat, stretching from Mali and Libya in the west to Yemen in the east, have complicated the narrative of a weakened Al Qaeda that President Obama offered in May in a landmark speech heralding the end of the war on terrorism. The leaders of the Senate and House intelligence committees, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California and Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, raised warnings in an interview on CNN on Sunday when they said that Americans were “not safer” from terrorist attacks than in 2011.
奥巴马总统曾在今年5月发表的一次重要演讲中宣告反恐战争的终结，提出基地组织的力量已经被削弱，然而从西部的马里、利比亚到东部的也门，种种新的迹象表明一种活跃而松散的圣战威胁仍然存在，从而令他的阐述显得复杂起来。参议院和众议院情报委员会的领导者，加利福尼亚州参议员戴安·范士丹(Dianne Feinstein)和密歇根州众议员迈克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)在周日接受CNN采访时提出了警告，称在恐怖袭击的威胁面前，美国人与2011年时相比“并没有更安全”。
The concerns are based in part on messages relayed this year by Ayman al-Zawahri, Al Qaeda’s overall leader, indicating that he views Syria — where the number of jihadist rebels and foreign fighters is steadily rising — as a promising staging ground.
产生这种忧虑的部分原因是基地组织总头目艾曼·扎瓦赫里(Ayman al-Zawahri)今年传出的消息。扎瓦赫里在消息中表示，他把叙利亚视为一个有前景的策源地，在那里反政府的圣战分子和外国作战人员的人数一直在持续增长。
Some analysts and American officials say the chaos there could force the Obama administration to take a more active role to stave off potential threats among the opposition groups fighting against the government of President Bashar al-Assad. But striking at jihadist groups in Syria would pose formidable political, military and legal obstacles, and could come at the cost of some kind of accommodation — even if only temporary or tactical — with Mr. Assad’s brutal but secular government, analysts say.
一些分析人士和美国官员表示，叙利亚的乱局或许会迫使奥巴马政府扮演更积极的角色，消除反对派武装团体中潜在的威胁，这些武装团体正在对抗叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府。但分析人士表示，打击叙利亚境内的圣战团体会在政治、军事和法律上面临无法克服的巨大障碍，而且可能要付出与阿萨德残暴但世俗的政府达成和解的代价，即便只是临时性和战术性的。
“We need to start talking to the Assad regime again” about counterterrorism and other issues of shared concern, said Ryan C. Crocker, a veteran diplomat who has served in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. “It will have to be done very, very quietly. But bad as Assad is, he is not as bad as the jihadis who would take over in his absence.”
“我们需要与阿萨德政权重新开始对话，”讨论反恐和其他共同关心的问题，曾在叙利亚、伊拉克和阿富汗履职的资深外交官瑞安·C·克罗克(Ryan C. Crocker)说。“一定要十分、十分秘密地进行。可是阿萨德再坏，也没有他倒台后掌权的圣战分子坏。”
It is not clear whether or when the White House would be willing to make such an abrupt shift in approach after years of supporting the Syrian opposition and calling for Mr. Assad’s ouster. It would certainly require delicate negotiations with Middle Eastern allies who were early and eager supporters of Syrian rebel groups, notably Saudi Arabia.
在多年来奉行支持叙利亚反对派、呼吁阿萨德下台的路线之后，不清楚白宫是否，以及何时，会愿意做出这种突如其来的立场转变。肯定需要与中东地区的盟友，尤其是沙特阿拉伯举行谨慎的谈判，这些国家很早就对叙利亚的反对派团体给予了热切的支持。
One growing source of concern is the number of Muslims from Western countries who have gone to fight in Syria and might eventually return home and pose a terrorist threat. Analysts say at least 1,200 European Muslims have gone to Syria since the start of the war to join the fight, and dozens of Americans.
而西方国家的穆斯林前往叙利亚作战的人数之众也越来越让人担忧，他们最终回国时或许会成为一个恐怖主义威胁。分析人士称，自从内战开始以来，至少有1200名欧洲穆斯林和数十名美国穆斯林已经前往叙利亚参战。
Across the region, a rising tide of Islamist militancy — fueled partly by sectarian violence and partly by the collapse of Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood in the face of opposition from the country’s military — has contributed to a recent wave of attacks, including deadly bombings in Lebanon and the Sinai Peninsula as well as the daily carnage in Syria and Iraq.
在整个区域，伊斯兰派武装活动呈上升趋势，部分推动因素是教派间的暴力冲突，部分原因是埃及穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)在本国军方的抵制下陷入崩溃。伊斯兰派武装活动的增强，造成了最近的一波攻击事件，包括在黎巴嫩和西奈半岛致人死亡的爆炸，也加剧了叙利亚和伊拉克每天都在发生的屠戮。
The violence has underscored the continuing disarray across the Middle East in the wake of the 2011 Arab Spring uprisings. Above all, it is the chaos of Syria, where foreign jihadis appear to be building to a critical mass and have overwhelmed the Western strategy of support for the moderate opposition, that could drive the Obama administration toward greater involvement, analysts say.
暴力事件突出显示了在2011年爆发的“阿拉伯之春”运动过后，整个中东地区处在持续的混乱中。分析人士表示，最终迫使奥巴马政府进行更深入干预的，可能是叙利亚的混乱。外国圣战分子似乎正在叙利亚积聚起相当大的规模，已经压倒了西方支持温和反对派的战略。
“To the extent that I am concerned about Al Qaeda the brand, it’s that it is clearly expanding its affiliates, both in number and in some cases in capability,” Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said in an interview. “We’ve got to watch and determine which ones are local, which ones are regional, and which ones are global, and each requires a different approach.”
“令我对‘基地’这个名号产生担忧的是，很明显它正在扩展附属组织，既在数量上扩展，某些情况下也在能力上扩展，”参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E. Dempsey)在一次采访中说。“我们必须观察并判断，哪些团体是当地的，哪些是地区性的，哪些是全球性的，每一种都需要采取不同的应对方式。”
Those agendas can easily overlap and change, and one place where that appears to be happening is Yemen, the home to Al Qaeda’s most organized and threatening affiliate. A series of clashes in the past month between Zaydi Muslim militia fighters and hard-line Sunnis in Yemen’s remote northwest has led to calls for a wider religious war, and there are reports of training camps being established for that purpose, Yemeni officials say.
这些议程很容易重叠和变化，这似乎就是也门正在发生的事。基地组织中最成规模、威胁最大的分支就在也门。过去一个月，宰德派(Zaydi)穆斯林武装和强硬的逊尼派在也门偏远的西北部发生了一系列冲突。这些冲突引起了开展更广泛宗教战争的呼声，也门官员说，有报告显示，针对这个目标而建立的训练营已经出现。
In Yemen, as in Syria, this sectarian dynamic may appear to divert the militants’ attention away from the West. But the accompanying radicalization and militancy creates “the perfect environment for Al Qaeda” in a country where the terrorist group already has a strong foothold, said one Yemeni official who spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not authorized to comment on the matter.
和在叙利亚一样，也们的教派纷争似乎转移了武装分子的注意力，让他们不再关注西方。然而一名也门官员表示，与此同时发生的激进化和武装升级，却在这个国家“为基地组织创造了完美的环境”，恐怖分子已经在这里建立了据点。这名官员要求匿名，因为他没有公开评论此事的权限。
Even as an American drone campaign continues to kill people suspected as militants in Yemen, the Qaeda affiliate based there gained at least $20 million in ransom payments earlier this year from the governments of Qatar and Oman, which paid to free two groups of European hostages, according to American and Yemeni officials. That is enough to fuel their operations for years, the officials said.
尽管美国仍在也门通过无人机行动击毙涉嫌从事武装活动的人员，但美国和也门官员表示，驻扎在那里的基地组织分支还是在今年早些时候、从卡塔尔和阿曼等国政府取得了2000万美元的赎金，支付这些赎金是为了救出两组欧洲人质。官员表示，这笔钱能维持他们运作很多年。
A string of recent deadly attacks on Yemeni military targets has also made clear that Al Qaeda “has infiltrated our security services” to a greater extent, the Yemeni official said. In one of those attacks, a band of six jihadists disguised in army uniforms commandeered a military post with dozens of soldiers inside and held it for three days, repelling repeated efforts to free the men.
上述也门官员称，最近一系列针对也门军方目标并导致伤亡的袭击事件更是显示出，基地组织加强了“对我们的安全部队的渗透。”在最近的一次袭击中，六名圣战分子身穿军服作为伪装，控制了一所内有数十名士兵的哨所并把守了三天，击退数次试图解救这些士兵的行动。
Other extremist groups are redoubling their efforts across Africa. Last month the State Department branded Boko Haram, the homegrown Islamist insurgent movement in Nigeria, as a foreign terrorist group. Its attacks have left thousands dead in a decade, and in October it ransomed four French hostages for a reported payment of over $27 million.
其他极端主义团体也正在非洲各地增强实力。上个月，美国国务院将尼日利亚本土产生的伊斯兰主义反叛运动“博科圣地”(Boko Haram)列为外国恐怖主义团体。10年来，该组织的袭击已经造成数千人死亡。
“Whether they are dismayed by the way things played out in Egypt or by the growth of Al Qaeda in Syria, the worm has turned in the Middle East in the minds of American foreign policy makers,” said William McCants, an expert on jihadist movements and a former senior adviser at the State Department. “It seems we are back to counterterrorism as a guiding focus for American policy.”
“无论埃及局势的发展、以及基地组织在叙利亚的发展是否令他们措手不及，在美国政策制定者看来，中东地区的局势都已经激化了，”美国国务院前高级顾问、圣战运动专家威廉·麦坎茨(William McCants)说。“似乎我们又回到了把反恐当做美国政策指导性重点的时期。”