WASHINGTON — When the Obama administration imposed sanctions on individual Russians last month in response to Moscow’s armed intervention in Ukraine, one of the targets was a longtime part-owner of a commodities trading company called the Gunvor Group.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府上个月对个别俄罗斯人施加制裁，以回应俄罗斯武装干涉乌克兰的举动，其中一个目标是大宗商品贸易公司贡渥集团(Gunvor Group)的长期合伙人。
His name, Gennady N. Timchenko, meant little to most Americans, but buried in the Treasury Department announcement were a dozen words that President Obama and his team knew would not escape the attention of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin. “Putin,” the statement said, “has investments in Gunvor and may have access to Gunvor funds.”
他的名字格纳迪·N·季姆琴科(Gennady N. Timchenko)对大多数美国人来说意义不大，但奥巴马总统和他的团队知道，美国财政部(Treasury Department)发表的声明中的寥寥数语，不会被俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)忽视。声明中称，“普京在贡渥有投资，或许能够动用贡渥的资金。”
For years, the suspicion that Mr. Putin has a secret fortune has intrigued scholars, industry analysts, opposition figures, journalists and intelligence agencies but defied their efforts to uncover it. Numbers are thrown around suggesting that Mr. Putin may control $40 billion or even $70 billion, in theory making him the richest head of state in world history.
多年来，有关普京拥有隐秘财富的猜疑引发了学者、行业分析人士、反对派人物、记者及情报机构的兴趣，但他们都没能发现这些财富。流传的数据称，普京可能拥有400亿美元（约合2500亿元人民币），甚至700亿美元资产，理论上这使他成为了世界历史上最富有的国家元首。
For all the rumors and speculation, though, there has been little if any hard evidence, and Gunvor has adamantly denied any financial ties to Mr. Putin and repeated that denial on Friday.
但这些传言和猜测很少有确凿的证据，贡渥集团坚决否认与普京有任何财务关系，并于周五重申了这一说法。
But Mr. Obama’s response to the Ukraine crisis, while derided by critics as slow and weak, has reinvigorated a 15-year global hunt for Mr. Putin’s hidden wealth.
虽然批评人士嘲笑奥巴马对乌克兰危机作出的回应迟缓、软弱，但这些回应还是重新激活了15年来追踪普京隐秘财富的一场全球行动。
As the Obama administration announced another round of sanctions Monday targeting Russians it considers part of Mr. Putin’s financial circle, it sent a not-very-subtle message that it thinks it knows where the Russian leader has his money, and that he could ultimately be targeted directly or indirectly.
奥巴马政府已在本周一宣布了新一轮针对与普京有财务关系的俄罗斯人的制裁。奥巴马政府的此番行动发出了一个颇为明确的信号，即它认为自己知道普京的财富藏在哪里，并且最终可能会直接或间接地对普京采取行动。
“It’s something that could be done that would send a very clear signal of taking the gloves off and not just dance around it,” said Juan C. Zarate, a White House counterterrorism adviser to President George W. Bush who helped pioneer the government’s modern financial campaign techniques to choke off terrorist money.
在前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)任内，担任过白宫反恐顾问的胡安·C·萨拉特(Juan C. Zarate)表示，“我们这样做可以释放一个非常明确的信号，我们会采取行动，而不只是说说而已。”萨拉特帮助开创了美国政府用来切断恐怖分子资金链的现代金融行动手段。
So far, the American government has not imposed sanctions on Mr. Putin himself, and officials said they would not in the short term, reasoning that personally targeting a head of state would amount to a “nuclear” escalation, as several put it.
迄今为止，美国政府还没有对普京本人采取制裁。官员们表示，他们短期内不会对普京采取行动，因为就像其中一些人所说的那样，针对国家元首个人相当于动用“核”武器。
But officials said they hoped to get Mr. Putin’s attention by targeting figures close to him like Mr. Timchenko, and other business magnates like Yuri V. Kovalchuk, Vladimir I. Yakunin and Arkady and Boris Rotenberg.
但官员们表示，他们希望通过针对与普京关系密切的人物引起普京的注意，如季姆琴科，以及尤里·V·科瓦利丘克(Yuri V. Kovalchuk)、弗拉基米尔·I·亚库宁(Vladimir I. Yakunin)、阿尔卡季·罗滕贝格和鲍里斯·罗滕贝格(Arkady and Boris Rotenberg)等商业大亨。
Among those on Monday’s list was Igor Sechin, president of the Rosneft state oil company.
周一公布的名单包括国有企业俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)的总裁伊格尔·谢钦(Igor Sechin)。
“It’s like standing in a circle and all of a sudden everyone in the circle is getting a bomb thrown on them, and you get the message that it’s getting close,” said Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, describing at a recent hearing the way the sanctions are getting closer to Mr. Putin.
新泽西州民主党参议员、外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)主席罗伯特·梅嫩德斯(Robert Menendez)最近参加听证会时形容道，“这就像是大家站成一个圆圈，突然之间，其中每一个人都遭到炸弹袭击，你就知道炸弹离你越来越近了。”他指的是美国距离制裁普京越来越近了。
Putin’s Denials
普京的否认
Mr. Putin’s reported income for 2013 was just $102,000, according to a Kremlin statement this month. Over the years, he has crudely dismissed suggestions of personal wealth. “I have seen some papers about this,” he said at a news conference in 2008. “Just gossip that’s not worth discussing. It’s simply rubbish. They picked everything out of someone’s nose and smeared it on their little papers.”
根据克里姆林宫(Kremlin)本月发表的声明，普京2013年申报的收入只有10.2万美元。多年以来，他都会直截了当地否认有关个人财富的说法。“我看到了一些相关报道，”他在2008年的一场新闻发布会上说。“只是些不值得讨论的谣言，胡说八道。他们会从别人鼻子里挖出所有料来，然后抹在自己的小报上发表。”
How much Mr. Putin cares about money has long been a subject of debate both in Russia and in the West. On government payrolls since his days in the K.G.B., the Soviet intelligence agency, Mr. Putin to many seemed driven more by power and nationalism than by material gain. With access to government perks like palaces, planes and luxury cars, he seemingly has little need for personal wealth.
在俄罗斯及西方国家，普京对金钱的在乎程度一直是一个争论主题。看看普京在苏联情报机构克格勃(KGB)工作以来的政府薪资单，与物质利益相比，很多人觉得他的动力来源似乎更多的是权力和民族主义。他享有各种政府特殊待遇，比如豪宅、飞机及高档轿车，他似乎没有个人财富需求。
“If he really does have all that money salted away somewhere, why?” asked Bruce K. Misamore, who was the chief financial officer of Yukos Oil before the Russian government imprisoned its top shareholder, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, seized its assets and gave many of them to Mr. Sechin’s Rosneft. “What good does it do him? Is it just ego? Presumably, it’s not to pass it down to heirs. I doubt we’ll see Mr. Putin becoming one of the leading philanthropists in the world.”
“如果他真的在某处放了那么多钱，那目的是什么？”布鲁斯·K·米萨莫尔(Bruce K. Misamore)说。“这对他有什么好处？仅仅出于自尊心？可能不是为了留给继承人。我猜想，普京恐怕也不会成为影响世界的著名慈善家。”在俄罗斯政府关押尤科斯石油公司(Yukos Oil)最大股东米哈伊尔·B·霍多尔科夫斯基(Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky)，没收尤科斯公司的资产，并将其中大部分资产转移到谢钦的Rosneft之前，米萨莫尔在尤科斯担任首席财务官。
And yet, some have drawn attention to what appear to be expensive watches on his wrist and the construction of a seaside palace that the Kremlin denied was being built for Mr. Putin. Some argue that Mr. Putin may want money, or the appearance of it, because it is the measure of stature and power in a society whose transition to capitalism has produced instant billionaires out of the wreckage of Communism.
但一些人注意到他手腕上昂贵的手表，以及正在修建的海边宅邸，克里姆林宫否认那是为普京建造的。一些人认为，普京可能想要钱，或者想看起来有钱，因为金钱在俄罗斯是地位和权力的象征。俄罗斯向资本主义转型的过程中，许多人从共产主义体制的残骸中摇身一变，成为了亿万富翁。
“I came to the conclusion after time that some of these reports may be seeded by people around Putin himself,” said Fiona Hill, who was the chief Russia expert at the National Intelligence Council and last year co-wrote a book about Mr. Putin. “Russians have to have the biggest and the best. It’s part of the mystique, part of the image.”
“我后来得出了这样一个结论，其中一些传闻可能是普京周围的人散播的，”美国国家情报委员会(National Intelligence Council)首席俄罗斯问题专家菲奥娜·希尔(Fiona Hill)说。“俄罗斯人必须要拥有最大、最好的，这是气场的一部分，是形象的一部分，”希尔去年与人合著了一本关于普京的书。
The Treasury Department has not provided evidence to back up its statement about Mr. Putin, but standard policy requires it to have enough verification to withstand a court challenge. 
财政部并没有为涉及普京的声明提供证据。但根据常规的政策，它要拥有充足的证据，好应对法院的挑战。
American diplomatic cables obtained by the antisecrecy organization WikiLeaks show sustained attention to the subject. The cables tied Mr. Putin not only to Gunvor but also to Surgutneftegaz, a large oil company, and even to Gazprom, but they used words like “rumored.” In one cable, for instance, diplomats cited a General Electric executive working in the region who privately said that Mr. Yakunin, the president of the state-owned Russian Railways, “has made sizable cash payments to Putin” and estimated that the Russian leader was worth “well over $10 billion.”
反保密组织维基解密(WikiLeaks)取得的美国外交电文显示，这个问题受到了持续的关注。电报内容将普京与贡渥、大型石油企业苏尔古特石油天然气公司(Surgutneftegaz)，以及Gazprom联系在一起，但电文中使用了“传言”之类的字眼。比如，在一条电文中，外交官们称一名在俄罗斯工作的通用电气(General Electric)高管私下表示，国有公司俄铁(Russian Railways)的总裁亚库宁“支付给普京大笔现金”，并估计普京的资产“远远超过了100亿美元”。
The C.I.A. in 2007 produced a secret assessment of Mr. Putin’s wealth that has never been released, according to officials who have read it. The assessment, the officials said, largely tracked with assertions later made publicly by a Russian political analyst who said Mr. Putin effectively controlled holdings in Gunvor, Gazprom and Surgutneftegaz that added up to about $40 billion at the time.
中央情报局2007年对普京的财富进行了秘密评估，这份评估一直没有公开。读过该份评估的官员表示，它和一位俄罗斯政治分析师后来的说法大致吻合。该分析师公开声称，普京实际上在贡渥集团、Gazprom和苏尔古特持有股份，当时总共约值400亿美元。
Trailed by Suspicion
疑点缠身
From the start of his political career, Mr. Putin has been dogged by suspicion. While he was deputy mayor of St. Petersburg in the 1990s, his office signed deals giving favored companies licenses to export $92 million in oil, timber, metal and other products in exchange for an equal amount of imported food. But the food never materialized.
自从初涉政坛，普京就一直疑点缠身。上世纪90年代担任圣彼得堡副市长时，他的办公室给一些受到青睐的公司颁发许可证，允许它们出口价值9200万美元的石油、木材、金属及其他货物，以换取同等金额的进口食品。但那些食品从未出现。
Mr. Putin was not accused of personally benefiting, but a City Council committee led by Marina Salye recommended Mr. Putin’s dismissal for “incompetence” and “unprecedented negligence and irresponsibility.” She also pushed for prosecutors to investigate. Mr. Putin blamed the companies involved and was spared by the mayor, Anatoly A. Sobchak, his political patron.
普京本人没有遭到中饱私囊的指控，但玛琳娜·萨利叶(Marina Salye)领导的一个市议会委员会建议解除普京的职务，理由是他“无能”，并且“前所未有地疏忽、不负责任”。她还力促检察机关调查此事。普京把责任推到了相关公司头上，其政治靠山、市长阿纳托利·A·索布恰克(Anatoly A. Sobchak)保住了普京的位置。
Still, it was not clear whether Mr. Putin in that era coveted money for himself or was more interested in deciding how it would be distributed as state assets were gobbled up by newly minted capitalists. Boris A. Berezovsky, the tycoon who helped install Mr. Putin in the Kremlin only to fall out with him and become his most bitter opponent, told a story of seeking and receiving Mr. Putin’s help with a business venture in St. Petersburg and then offering him a bribe in thanks, only to be turned down.
不过，并不清楚普京在那个时期垂涎金钱是出于私欲，还是对另外一件事更感兴趣：当新崛起的资本家侵吞国有资产的时候，他想决定如何对金钱进行分配。大亨鲍里斯·A·别列佐夫斯基(Boris A. Berezovsky)曾帮助普京进入克里姆林宫，但后来却与他不和，并成为了普京最激烈的反对者。根据别列佐夫斯基的讲述，他曾因圣彼得堡的一个商业项目寻求过普京的帮助，在得到普京的帮助后，向普京提供好处费以示感谢，结果遭到了拒绝。
In 2006, Mr. Bush kicked off an initiative targeting corrupt foreign leaders. Over the next year, his administration focused attention on learning more about the finances of leaders in the former Soviet Union, like Ilham Aliyev of Azerbaijan and Aleksandr G. Lukashenko of Belarus.
2006年，布什总统启动了一项针对外国腐败领导人的计划。接下来的一年，布什政府专注于更深入地了解前苏联加盟共和国领导人的财务状况，如阿塞拜疆的伊尔哈姆·阿利耶夫(Ilham Aliev)和白俄罗斯的亚历山大·G·卢卡申科(Aleksandr G. Lukashenko)。
The 2007 C.I.A. assessment grew out of that. But different officials came away with different impressions of its reliability. Some said they considered it a reasonable appraisal of Mr. Putin’s worth based on solid reporting. Others said they considered it to be built largely on speculation and unsubstantiated talk.
中情局2007年的评估就是由此而来。但是，官员们对这份评估的可靠性莫衷一是。一些人表示，他们认为其对普京身家的评估是合理的，建立在可靠报告的基础上。另一些人则说，他们认为这份评估在很大程度是以猜测和未经核实的谈话为依据的。
Either way, the assessment roughly mirrored estimates made publicly at the end of that year by Stanislav Belkovsky, a Russian political analyst with ties to the Kremlin whose public attack on oligarchs several years earlier had presaged the arrest and prosecution of Mr. Khodorkovsky of Yukos.
无论如何，那份评估与当年年底俄罗斯政治分析师斯坦尼斯拉夫·别尔科夫斯基(Stanislav Belkovsky)所做的估计大致吻合。别尔科夫斯基与克里姆林宫关系紧密，他几年前对寡头公开发起攻击，不久之后尤科斯公司的霍多尔科夫斯基就遭到逮捕并受到起诉。
Mr. Belkovsky told European newspapers in December 2007 that Mr. Putin had amassed a fortune of “at least” $40 billion through sizable shares of some of Russia’s largest energy companies. Mr. Putin secretly controlled “at least 75 percent” of Gunvor, 4.5 percent of Gazprom and 37 percent of Surgutneftegaz, Mr. Belkovsky said, citing only unnamed Kremlin insiders.
2007年12月，别尔科夫斯基告诉一些欧洲报纸，普京在俄罗斯一些大型能源企业持有可观的股份，因而积累了大量的财富，“至少”价值400亿美元。别尔科夫斯基援引未具名的克里姆林宫内线的说法，称普京暗中控制了贡渥集团“至少75%”的股份，Gazprom的4.5%，以及苏尔古特公司的37%的股份。
“The reality is that Putin has others and entities to move money that he controls or that he might control ultimately,” said Mr. Zarate, the former Bush adviser. “The challenge with him is you don’t have an easy way of drawing the line to the assets he actually owns and controls currently. There’s a dimension of layering and relationships with people with whom he’s close and entities that serve as conduits that make it tricky to determine what is Putin’s and what is not.”
“现实情况是，普京还有其他实体来转移他掌控的资金，或者最终可能由他掌控的资金，”布什的前顾问萨拉特说。“这里面临的挑战是，界定他目前实际拥有和控制了哪些资产并不容易。他跟一些关系紧密的人，以及一些作为渠道的实体之间关系复杂，所以要确定哪些资产属于普京，哪些不属于他，是件棘手的事。”
Efforts to Open Curtain
努力解开谜团
In the years since, others have taken a look at Mr. Putin’s finances. The magazine The Economist linked Mr. Putin to Mr. Timchenko in 2008. Mr. Timchenko sued but later dropped the case, and The Economist issued a statement. “We accept Gunvor’s assurances that neither Vladimir Putin nor any other senior Russian political figures have any ownership in Gunvor,” the magazine said.
此后数年，其他人也研究过普京的财务状况。《经济学人》(The Economist)杂志2008年把普京和季姆琴科联系到了一起。季姆琴科起诉了该杂志，但后来撤诉了。《经济学人》则发表了一份声明。声明中表示：“贡渥集团保证，无论是普京还是其他任何俄罗斯高级政治人物，都未持有该公司的任何股份，我们接受这个保证。”
In 2010, Sergei Kolesnikov, a businessman, published an open letter saying he had helped Mr. Putin secretly build a billion-dollar palace on the Black Sea. The Kremlin dismissed his claims as “absurd.” In 2012, Boris Y. Nemtsov, an opposition leader, released a report detailing the presidential perks at Mr. Putin’s disposal, including 20 residences, 15 helicopters, four yachts and 43 aircraft.
2010年，商人谢尔盖·科列斯尼科夫(Sergei Kolesnikov)发表了一封公开信，称他曾帮助普京在黑海边秘密修建了一座数十亿美元的豪宅。克里姆林宫驳斥道，他的说法很“荒谬”。2012年，一位名为鲍里斯·Y·涅姆佐夫(Boris Y. Nemtsov)的反对派领袖发布报告，详细列出了普京当总统取得的好处，其中包括住房20处、直升机15架、游艇4艘、飞机43架。
But some hunting for Mr. Putin’s private wealth have found obstacles. Last month, Cambridge University Press declined to publish a book by its longtime author Karen Dawisha, a Miami University professor, exploring how Mr. Putin built “a kleptocratic and authoritarian regime in Russia.” The publisher wrote her saying it had “no reason to doubt the veracity” of her book, but deemed the risk of a lawsuit too high, according to letters published by The Economist. In a return letter, Ms. Dawisha called the decision “pre-emptive book burning.”
但是，一些人在追踪普京私人财富的过程中遇到了阻碍。上个月，剑桥大学出版社(Cambridge University Press)拒绝出版与其长期合作的作家，迈阿密大学(Miami University)教授卡伦·达维沙(Karen Dawisha)的一本书。此书对普京如何“在俄罗斯建立一个盗贼统治和专制政权”进行了探究。《经济学人》报道，出版社写信告诉她，出版社“没有理由怀疑该书的真实性”，但认为这本书很有可能惹来官司。达维沙则在回信中称，这个决定是“主动防卫型焚书”。
All of which makes the Treasury Department’s assertions last month so striking. 
所有这一切都让美国财政部上个月的说法非常惊人。