SEOUL, South Korea — The United States responded Wednesday to North Korea’s intercontinental ballistic missile test by conducting a rare joint missile exercise with South Korea and pushing to impose tougher United Nations sanctions against the North that would affect trading partners like China.
韩国首尔——周三，美国对朝鲜的洲际弹道导弹试验作出反应：美韩进行了罕见的联合导弹演习，并且努力推动对朝鲜施加更严格的制裁，这些制裁可能会影响到中国等贸易伙伴。
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, told an emergency meeting of the Security Council that North Korea’s test of an intercontinental ballistic missile Tuesday was a “clear escalation.”
美国驻联合国大使尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)在安理会紧急会议上说，朝鲜周二试射洲际弹道导弹是事态的“明显升级”。
Haley said the United States was working on a Security Council draft resolution that “raises the international response” to North Korea’s repeated missile and nuclear tests. The sanctions to date, she said, “have been insufficient.”
黑利说，美国正在起草一项安理会决议，“提升”对朝鲜不断进行导弹和核试验的“国际反应”。她说，目前实施的制裁“还不够”。
She did not specify what the resolution would do or when it might be ready for a vote. But she alluded to punishments including a complete cutoff of North Korea’s access to international currency markets, severe restrictions on high-level North Korean officials.
她没有具体说明这个决议将会采取什么措施，以及什么时候表决。但她指出，惩罚包括完全限制朝鲜进入国际货币市场，并对朝鲜高级官员加以严格限制。
On Tuesday, North Korea successfully tested its first intercontinental ballistic missile, the Hwasong-14. Washington and its allies confirmed that the weapon was an ICBM and condemned the test as a violation of U.N. resolutions and a dangerous escalation of tensions.
朝鲜本周二成功测试了其首枚洲际弹道导弹(ICBM)“火星-14型”。华盛顿及其盟友证实它属于ICBM，谴责它违反了联合国决议，是对紧张局势的危险升级。
The top U.S. general in South Korea said Wednesday that “self-restraint” was all that was keeping the United States and South Korea from going to war with the North.
驻韩美军最高将领周三表示，美国和韩国之所以还没有和朝鲜开战，靠的全是“自我克制”。
The unusually blunt warning, from Gen. Vincent K. Brooks, commander of U.S. troops based in Seoul, came as the South’s defense minister indicated that the North’s missile had the potential to reach Hawaii.
驻扎在首尔的美军司令文森特·K·布鲁克斯上将(Vincent K. Brooks)发出这个异常直白的警告同时，韩国国防部长表示，朝鲜的这种导弹有可能打到夏威夷。
“Self-restraint, which is a choice, is all that separates armistice and war,” Brooks said, referring to the 1953 cease-fire that halted but never officially ended the Korean War. “As this alliance missile live-fire shows, we are able to change our choice when so ordered by our alliance national leaders.
“自我克制是一种选择，停战还是开战就在这一线之间，”布鲁克斯说。他指的是朝鲜战争虽然自1953年停火，但是从来没有正式结束过。“就像韩美联盟导弹实弹演习所表明的，当我们联盟的国家领导人下了令，我们能够改变选择。”
“It would be a grave mistake for anyone to believe anything to the contrary.”
“任何不以为然的人，都是在犯下大错。”
Although doubts remained about whether North Korea had cleared all the technical hurdles to make the Hwasong-14 a fully functional ICBM, the launch prompted the United States and South Korea to conduct a joint missile exercise off the east coast of the South on Wednesday. The drill involved firing an undisclosed number of ballistic missiles into the sea.
虽然朝鲜是否已经清除了所有技术障碍，使“火星-14型”成为一个功能齐全的ICBM尚存疑问，但试射促使美韩周三在韩国东海岸进行了联合导弹演习。这次演习向海中发射了若干弹道导弹，具体数量未作披露。
President Moon Jae-in of South Korea asked President Donald Trump on Tuesday night to endorse the joint exercise, arguing that the allies needed to respond to the North’s provocation with “more than statements,” Moon’s office said.
韩国总统文在寅的办公室说，他本周二晚上要求特朗普总统支持联合演习，认为联盟在应对朝鲜的挑衅时，需要的“不仅仅是声明”。
The South Korean military said the missiles, which had a range of about 185 miles, had been fired to test their ability to launch “a precision strike at the enemy leadership” in case of war. It did not say how far the missiles had traveled.
韩国军方表示，这些导弹的射程大约在185英里（约合298公里），本次发射是为了测试它们“对敌方领导人进行精确打击”的能力。军方没有说这些导弹飞行了多远。
Japan’s chief Cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, said Wednesday that Japan and the United States had agreed to take “specific actions to improve our defense systems and our ability to deter North Korea.”
日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)周三表示，日本和美国已同意采取“具体行动，以改善我们的防务体系和遏制朝鲜的能力”。
Suga did not say what those actions were, but a spokesman for the Defense Ministry said the government was considering buying ballistic missile defense systems from the United States.
菅义伟虽然没有具体说是哪些行动，但是国防部发言人说，日本政府正在考虑从美国购买弹道导弹防御系统。
The propaganda battle between the Koreas escalated Wednesday, even as Asian stock markets appeared to shrug off the latest tensions.
朝韩两国的宣传攻势周三出现升级，亚洲股市似乎未受最近紧张局势的影响。
The North’s leader, Kim Jong Un, said the missile test was intended to “slap the American bastards in their face” and was a Fourth of July “gift package” for the “Yankees.”
朝鲜领导人金正恩说，这次导弹试验是“打美国杂种的脸”，是独立日送给“美国佬”的“礼物”。
South Korea released a computer-animated video showing missile strikes at the heart of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. The video featured a U.S. B1-B bomber and German-made Taurus air-to-land cruise missiles.
韩国发布了一个计算机动画视频，展示了导弹击中朝鲜首都平壤核心地带的场面。一架美国B1-B轰炸机，以及德国制造的“金牛座”(Taurus)空对地巡航导弹出现在了这个视频中。
The Taurus, which is meant to destroy targets underground, is often cited as a critical weapon South Korea would use in an operation to “decapitate” the North’s government.
“金牛座”用于摧毁地下目标，它往往被视作韩国“斩首”朝鲜政府行动中会使用到的一个关键武器。
The video showed flags and government buildings in Pyongyang in flames.
这个视频显示平壤的一些旗帜和政府大楼在火焰中燃烧。
The North Korean missile launched Tuesday was fired at a steep angle, flying a horizontal distance of only 578 miles but reaching an altitude of more than 1,700 miles, according to North Korean, South Korean and Japanese officials.
按照朝鲜、韩国和日本官员的说法，周二朝鲜以大角度发射了那枚导弹，它飞行的水平距离只有578英里（约合930公里），但达到的高度超过1700英里（约合2736公里）。
Speaking to the South Korean National Assembly on Wednesday, the defense minister, Han Min-koo, said that the Hwasong-14, if launched on a standard trajectory, could have a range of 4,350 to 4,970 miles, enough to hit Alaska and possibly Hawaii.
韩国国防部长官韩民求(Han Min-Koo)周三对韩国国民议会说，如果以标准轨道发射，“火星-14型”可以飞出4350英里（约合7000公里）到4970英里（约合8000公里），足以打到阿拉斯加，可能还可以打到夏威夷。
Analysts had said Tuesday that the missile appeared to be capable of striking Alaska. Hawaii is farther, about 4,780 miles from Kusong, the North Korean town where the missile was fired.
分析人士周二表示，这种导弹打到阿拉斯加似乎没问题。夏威夷更远一点，距离发射导弹的朝鲜龟城约4780英里（约合7693公里）。