Barbara Bush, the widely admired wife of one president and the fiercely loyal mother of another, died Tuesday evening. She was 92.
芭芭拉·布什(Barbara Bush)于周二晚间去世，享年92岁。作为一位总统的妻子，她备受人们的敬仰。而作为另一位总统的母亲，她给予自己的儿子坚定的支持。
Jim McGrath, a family spokesman, announced the death in a statement posted to Twitter..
布什家族发言人吉姆·麦格拉斯(Jim McGrath)在Twitter上发表的声明中宣布了她去世的消息。
On the office of her husband, former President George Bush, issued a statement saying that after consulting her family and her doctors, Mrs. Bush had “decided not to seek additional medical treatment and will instead focus on comfort care.”
她的丈夫、前总统乔治·布什(George Bush)的办公室此前发表声明，称在同家人和医生商议后，芭芭拉·布什“决定不再寻求更多的治疗，而是把重点放在舒适护理上”。
The Bushes had celebrated their 73rd wedding anniversary in January, making them the longest-married couple in presidential history.
布什夫妇在1月庆祝了他们结婚73周年纪念日。他们是有史以来结婚时间最长的美国总统夫妇。
Mrs. Bush had been hospitalized with pneumonia in December 2013. She underwent surgery for a perforated ulcer in 2008 and had heart surgery four months later.
2013年12月，芭芭拉·布什因肺炎住院。她在2008年因溃疡穿孔接受了手术，四个月后又做了心脏手术。
As the wife of the 41st president and the mother of the 43rd, George W. Bush, Mrs. Bush was only the second woman in American history to see a son of hers follow his father to the White House. (Abigail Adams, wife of John Adams and mother of John Quincy Adams, was the first.)
作为第41任总统的妻子和第43任总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)的母亲，芭芭拉·布什是美国历史上第二个见证了儿子在父亲之后入主白宫的女性。（约翰·亚当斯[John Adams]的妻子、约翰·昆西·亚当斯[John Quincy Adams]的母亲阿比盖尔·亚当斯[Abigail Adams]是第一个。）
Another son, Jeb, the governor of Florida from 1999 to 2007, was an unsuccessful candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016.
她的另一个儿子杰布(Jeb)在1999至2007年期间担任佛罗里达州州长，2016年曾竞选共和党总统候选人提名，但以失败告终。
During that campaign, he was repeatedly derided in personal terms by the eventual nominee and now president, Donald J. Trump, prompting Mrs. Bush, who was never shy about expressing her views, to lash back, suggesting in television interviews that Mr. Trump was a misogynist and a hatemonger.
在那场竞选期间，最终提名人选、现任总统唐纳德·J·特朗普多次对杰布·布什进行人身攻击。这促使从来不羞于表达自己观点的芭芭拉·布什进行反击，在电视采访中表示特朗普厌恶女性，煽动仇恨。
“He’s said terrible things about women, terrible things about the military,” Mrs. Bush told CNN. “I don’t understand why people are for him.”
“他对女性、对军队有很多可怕的言论，”芭芭拉·布什对CNN说。“我不明白人们为什么支持他。”
Dedicated to her family and largely indifferent to glamour, Mrs. Bush played down her role in her husband’s political success. But she was a shrewd and valuable ally, becoming a sought-after speaker in at least four national campaigns: in 1980, when Mr. Bush was chosen to be Ronald Reagan’s running mate; in 1984, when the two ran for re-election; in 1988, when Mr. Bush campaigned for president; and in 1992, when he sought re-election.
芭芭拉·布什专注于家庭，甚少在意个人的风光。她淡化了自己在丈夫的政治成功中所起的作用。但她是一个敏锐、有价值的盟友，在至少四场全国竞选中成为广受欢迎的演讲者：1980年布什被选为罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的竞选搭档、1984年两人谋求连任、1988年布什竞选总统和1992年布什谋求连任。
She stepped into another presidential campaign in 2000, that of her son George, then the governor of Texas. She appeared at fund-raisers and met voters in New Hampshire and other states on his behalf as he rolled to the Republican presidential nomination.
2000年，她加入了另一场总统竞选，这次是她的儿子、时任德克萨斯州州长乔治。在他争取共和党总统候选人提名期间，她出席筹款活动，并代表他在新罕布什尔和其他州和选民见面。
She was clearly a political asset. A 1999 poll found that 63 percent of Americans had a favorable opinion of her and that only 3 percent had an unfavorable one.
她显然是一笔政治资产。1999年的一项民意调查发现，63%的美国人对她有好感，只有3%的人对她有意见。
Mrs. Bush enjoyed a favorable public image throughout her years as first lady. In one respect she benefited from comparisons with her predecessor, Nancy Reagan, whom many perceived, rightly or wrongly, as remote, icy and overly style-conscious.
在担任第一夫人期间，芭芭拉·布什一直保持着良好的公众形象。一方面，她受益于与她的前任南希·里根(Nancy Reagan)的对比。不管是否符合实情，很多人的确认为后者疏远、冷淡且过于注重时尚。
By contrast, Mrs. Bush was regarded as unpretentious, a woman who could wear fake pearls, enjoy takeout tacos, walk the dog in her bathrobe and make fun of herself. Perhaps adding to her appeal, she conformed to the popular view of an old-fashioned grandmother, with her white hair and matronly figure; though she was almost a year younger than her husband, many thought she looked much older.
相比之下，芭芭拉·布什被认为朴实无华，是一个可以戴假珍珠饰品、喜欢吃墨西哥卷饼外卖、穿着浴袍遛狗和拿自己开玩笑的人。她的白发和庄重仪表，符合民众对老派祖母的想象，这或许增加了她的魅力。尽管她比丈夫小将近一岁，但很多人认为她看上去比她丈夫大得多。
The family returned to Washington in 1973 when Mr. Bush was appointed chairman of the Republican National Committee, a position he occupied during the Watergate crisis. In 1974, President Gerald R. Ford sent him to the People’s Republic of China to lead the United States Liaison Office in Beijing.
1973年，布什被任命为共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)主席，任职期间发生了水门事件。1974年，杰拉德·R·福特(Gerald R. Ford)总统派他前往中华人民共和国，成为位于北京的美国联络办公室(United States Liaison Office)负责人。
“Watergate was a terrible experience,” Mrs. Bush told Ms. Radcliffe in 1984. “So to go off to China and learn a whole new culture was beautiful.”
“水门事件是一次可怕的经历，”布什夫人在1984年对自己的传记作者唐妮·雷德克里夫(Donnie Radcliffe)说。“因此，能去中国了解一种全新的文化是很美好的。”
She particularly liked having her husband to herself; their children had not accompanied them. The two cycled around Beijing, studied Chinese and learned tai chi.
让她尤其高兴的是可以和丈夫独处；他们的孩子没有跟去。两人在北京骑车、学中文、打太极。
In “Barbara Bush: A Memoir,” published in 1994, Mrs. Bush acknowledged that she suffered from depression in 1976 after she and her husband had returned from his two-year China posting and he was named director of the Central Intelligence Agency, a post he held for 11 months.
在1994年出版的《芭芭拉·布什回忆录》中，布什夫人承认，她在1976年时曾受抑郁症困扰。那是在她和丈夫从中国任职两年回国之后，当时丈夫被任命为中央情报局局长，并在这一职位上工作了11个月。
She had discussed her depression at a news conference, saying she believed that the women’s movement had contributed to her illness. “I believe it made me feel inadequate,” she said. “I’m not quite sure how. You were made to feel demeaned a little bit.”
她曾在一次新闻发布会上讨论过自己的抑郁症，表示她的病和女权运动有关。“我认为这让我感到了不足，”她说。“我也不太确定是怎么回事。你就是有点被羞辱的感觉。”
Mrs. Bush published another memoir, “Reflections: Life After the White House,” in 2004.
2004年，布什夫人出版了另一本回忆录《反思——白宫之后的生活》。
A lifelong volunteer for charitable causes, Mrs. Bush raised money for the United Negro College Fund while in New Haven, started a thrift shop in Midland and volunteered in nursing homes and hospitals in Houston, Washington and New York. Her son Neil’s dyslexia led to her interest in fighting illiteracy.
在纽黑文时，终身致力于慈善事业的布什夫人曾为联合黑人学院基金会(United Negro College Fund)募捐，在米德兰开设了一家慈善二手物品商店，还在休斯顿、华盛顿和纽约的疗养院作过志愿者。儿子尼尔的阅读障碍症使她对扫盲产生了兴趣。
In her eight years as the wife of the vice president, she attended more than 500 events related to literacy, and after she became first lady she started the Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy. The profits from her book “C. Fred’s Story: A Dog’s Life” (1984), a wry look at Washington life as seen by her dog, and from a follow-up based on another family dog, “Millie’s Book: As Dictated to Barbara Bush” (1990), went to literacy causes.
在她身为副总统夫人的八年间，她参与了超过500场与扫盲有关的活动。在成为第一夫人后，她创立了“芭芭拉·布什家庭扫盲基金会”(Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy)。她的作品《C·弗莱德的故事——一只狗的生活》(C. Fred’s Story: A Dog’s Life，1984)以自家宠物狗的视角冷眼旁观了华盛顿生活，又以家里另一只狗的视角写就了一本续集《米莉的书——对芭芭拉·布什的口述》(Millie’s Book: As Dictated to Barbara Bush，1990)。两本作品的获利均被用于扫盲事业。
Mrs. Bush hoped her contributions to those causes would form a large part of her legacy.
布什夫人希望她在这些事业上的贡献是她留下遗产的一大部分。
“I want to be known as a wife, a mother, a grandmother,” she wrote in 1988. “That’s what I am. And I’d like to be known as someone who really cared about people and worked very, very hard to make America more literate.”
“我希望以一个妻子、一个母亲、一个祖母的身份为人所知，”她在1988年写道。“这就是我。我希望人们心目中的我是一个关心别人的人，曾经非常、非常努力地想让更多美国人能读书写字。”