Even if you are a bank as gigantic as BNP Paribas, $9 billion is a lot of money. Shareholders of the French bank know that all too well, as that is what they are paying in penalties to the United States for a conspiracy to allow money transfers to Sudan and other blacklisted nations.
即便是对法国巴黎银行（BNP Paribas，简称BNP）这样的大型银行来说，90亿美元也是一大笔钱。这家法国银行的股东非常清楚这一点，因为他们需要支付给美国的罚款金额就是90亿美元（约合550亿元人民币）；BNP受罚的原因是，它暗中提供帮助，把一些资金转移到了苏丹等黑名单国家。
The case is remarkable for the size of the penalty, which is a bit more than the bank’s total earnings for 2013. But it may be more interesting for the lesson it teaches about how the United States’ financial power goes hand in hand with its role in foreign affairs.
这桩案子引人瞩目的地方在于罚款金额之巨大，90亿美元比该银行2013年的盈利总额还略高一些。但它更有趣的地方是提供了一个教训，关乎于美国的金融实力如何与该国在外交事务上的角色紧密结合。
In short: The dollar is the global reserve currency, the bedrock of the world financial system. And that role gives the United States surprising power over what happens in the world even in spheres that would have little to do with finance.
简而言之：美元是全球储备货币，是全球金融体系的基石。而这个角色赋予了美国惊人的权力，让它能左右世界上的各种事务，甚至在那些几乎与金融毫无关联的领域也是如此。
In the case of BNP Paribas, a French bank was accused of (and has now admitted) facilitating transactions with Sudan, Iran and Cuba. These were engineered out of its Geneva office, which covered up transactions with Sudan.
在BNP的例子中，一家法国银行被指控（现已承认）提供方便之门，让资金流入苏丹、伊朗和古巴。BNP的日内瓦分支一手策划了此事，并把和苏丹的交易掩盖了起来。
Yet it is now facing a huge penalty and the forced resignations of 13 executives, who may be banned from the banking industry, because of actions taken by the Justice Department, the Federal Reserve and the New York State financial regulator. In other words, a French bank must comply with United States foreign policy, which set economic sanctions on those nations, or it will pay a very high price.
由于美国司法部(Justice Department)、美国联邦储备委员会（Federal Reserve，简称：美联储）和纽约州金融监管机构采取的行动，BNP现在正面临着巨额罚款，它的13名高管不仅将被迫辞职，而且可能被禁止进入银行业。换句话说，一家法国银行必须服从美国规定的、对黑名单国家施加经济制裁的外交政策，否则就会付出巨大代价。
And for BNP Paribas, or really any bank of any size around the world, there is no choice but to comply. The dollar is by a wide margin the most widely used currency for international trade and for foreign governments, wealthy individuals or corporations looking to park cash.
不管是BNP，还是全球各地大大小小的银行，对此都没有其他办法，只好照办。对于国际贸易，以及希望储备现金的外国政府、富人或公司来说，美元是使用最广泛的货币，远远超过其他币种。
If you are a bank in Paris or Jakarta or São Paulo, you can’t really serve your clients unless you are able to connect them to the global market for dollars. And you can’t do that unless you are in good standing with United States regulators. And you will very much not be in good standing with them if there is evidence you facilitated financing of terrorism or governments that the United States considers global threats.
如果你是一家位于巴黎、雅加达或圣保罗的银行，你必须把客户连接到全球的美元市场上，才算是真正能为客户提供服务。而这样做的前提是美国监管机构认为你表现良好。如果有证据表明，你为恐怖主义或美国认为对全球构成威胁的政府获得资金开了方便之门，那么美国监管机构就不会认为你表现良好。
That’s one of the important reasons that United States-led economic sanctions against Sudan or Iran carry weight. Those countries cannot easily gain access to the global financial system by going to a bank in a more sympathetic country.
美国牵头对苏丹和伊朗进行经济制裁之所以很有分量，这就是重要原因之一。就算有些国家比较同情他们，这些受制裁者也无法轻易获得其银行的帮助，从而进入全球金融体系。