FERGUSON, Mo. — President Obama said Monday that he was sending Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to this St. Louis suburb and the Missouri governor deployed the National Guard to help the police quell unrest over the shooting death of an unarmed black teenager by a police officer. Gov. Jay Nixon also lifted a curfew that had been imposed on Friday night.
密苏里州弗格森——奥巴马总统在周一表示，他将派司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)前往圣路易斯郊区的弗格森市。密苏里州州长则部署了国民警卫队(National Guard)来帮助警方平息骚乱。此前，一名警察开枪打死了一个手无寸铁的黑人少年，引发了这场骚乱。州长杰伊·尼克松(Jay Nixon)还解除了周五晚间开始实施的宵禁。
Mr. Holder will travel to Ferguson on Wednesday, Mr. Obama said, and Ronald Davis, the director of the Justice Department’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, will arrive there on Tuesday to work with police officials.
奥巴马表示，霍尔德将于周三前往弗格森。司法部社区警务办公室(Office of Community Oriented Policing Services)主任罗纳德·戴维斯(Ronald Davis)也将于周二抵达弗格森，与警方开展合作。
Mr. Obama told reporters at the White House that he had talked to Mr. Nixon and expressed “an interest in making sure that if in fact the National Guard is used, it is used in a limited and appropriate way.”
奥巴马在白宫告诉记者，他已与尼克松进行交谈，并表示“有意确保，如果的确动用国民警卫队，就要以有限而适当的方式动用”。
“I’ll be watching over the next several days, to assess whether, in fact, it’s helping rather than hindering progress in Ferguson,” Mr. Obama said.
奥巴马说，“接下来几天，我将继续关注，以便评估这种举措是否实际上推动而非阻碍了弗格森的事态进展。”
Mr. Nixon said in a statement that the role of the National Guard would be limited to protecting the police command center here, which the authorities said came under a coordinated attack on Sunday night.
尼克松发表声明称，国民警卫队发挥的作用将仅限于保护当地的警方指挥中心。当局称，该中心在周日晚间遭到协同攻击。
“With these additional resources in place,” Mr. Nixon said, “the Missouri State Highway Patrol and local law enforcement will continue to respond appropriately to incidents of lawlessness and violence, and protect the civil rights of all peaceful citizens to make their voices heard.”
“有了这些新资源，”尼克松说，“密苏里州高速公路巡警和当地执法部门将继续对违法和暴力事件做出适当回应，保护所有爱好和平的公民的权利，以允许他们发表意见。”
The authorities have been stymied in their efforts to quell the unrest in the street caused by the death of the teenager, Michael Brown, on Aug. 9. Mr. Nixon turned to the State Highway Patrol to oversee crowd control on Thursday after local officials were criticized for heavy-handed tactics that included the use of tear gas and military-style vehicles. The state’s less confrontational approach seemed to calm the crowds for one night, but tensions between the police and protesters have since surpassed levels seen earlier.
少年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)在8月9日遭枪杀一事引发了街头骚乱，而当局平息骚乱的努力频频受阻。人们批评当地官员采用严厉手段，比如动用催泪瓦斯和军用车辆，于是，尼克松上周四转而下令州高速公路巡警来负责人群控制。州里采取的对抗性较低的举措似乎使民众恢复了平静，但这种状态只持续了一个晚上，警方与抗议者之间的对立随后升级到更高的水平。
Mr. Obama said to reporters that while the “vast majority” of residents who had taken to the streets were protesting peacefully, a “small minority” had acted violently.
奥巴马面对记者时说，虽然走上街头的“绝大多数”民众是在和平抗议，但“一小部分人”却实施了暴力活动。
“While I understand the passions and the anger that arise over the death of Michael Brown, giving in to that anger by looting or carrying guns and even attacking the police only serves to raise tensions and stir chaos,” Mr. Obama said.
“我理解迈克尔·布朗之死所引发的激动和愤怒，但通过抢劫、持枪、乃至袭警来发泄愤怒，只能加剧对抗，引发混乱，”奥巴马说。
“In too many communities around the country, a gulf of mistrust exists between local residents and law enforcement,” Mr. Obama said. “In too many communities, too many young men of color are left behind and seen only as objects of fear.”
“在全国的太多社区，当地居民和执法部门之间都存在着一条不信任的鸿沟，”奥巴马说。“在太多社区，有太多的有色人种青年被社会抛弃，仅仅被看做恐惧的对象。”
He also criticized the behavior of the police in the community, saying, “There’s no excuse for excessive force by police or any action that denies people the right to protest peacefully.”
奥巴马还谴责了警方在该社区的行为，他说，“警方没有借口滥用武力，也没有理由剥夺人们和平抗议的权利。”
On the street, law enforcement officials indicated Monday that they would take a different tack with protesters. People will not be allowed to congregate on the major thoroughfare that has been the center of the protests. They could walk, officials said, but not be stationary.
街头的执法官员周一表示，他们会换一种策略来应对抗议者。人们将被禁止聚集在曾经作为抗议中心的那条主干道上。官员称，抗议者可以游行，但不能滞留在一个地方。
At midmorning on Monday, about a dozen county and state police officers told a small group that it could not gather at the QuikTrip convenience store that had been burned last week during protests over the death of Mr. Brown, 18.
周一上午九十点左右，约十几名县级和州级警员阻止了一小群人在QuikTrip便利店前的集会。在18岁少年布朗之死引发的抗议活动中，这家商店上周被烧毁。
People could walk up and down the street to protest, the officers told the group, which included the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, but they could not stand in one place.
警察告诉他们，可以沿着街道来回行走，表达抗议，但不可以站在一个地方不动。这群人中包括牧师杰西·L·杰克逊(Jesse L. Jackson)。