Many white Americans say they are fed up with the coverage of the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo. A plurality of whites in a recent Pew survey said that the issue of race is getting more attention than it deserves.
许多美国白人说自己受够了有关密苏里州的弗格森迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)被枪杀一事的报道。在皮尤研究中心最近的一项调查中，众多白人受访者表示，种族问题得到了过分多的关注。
Bill O’Reilly of Fox News reflected that weariness, saying: “All you hear is grievance, grievance, grievance, money, money, money.”
Fox新闻频道(Fox News)的比尔·奥赖利(Bill O'Reilly)也表现出了这种厌倦，说：“你听到的都是委屈、委屈、委屈，钱、钱、钱。
Indeed, a 2011 study by scholars at Harvard and Tufts found that whites, on average, believed that anti-white racism was a bigger problem than anti-black racism.
的确，哈佛大学和塔夫茨大学的学者在2011年进行的一项研究发现，白人通常认为，相比于反黑人种族主义，反白人种族主义这个问题更严重。
Yes, you read that right!
对，你没看错。
So let me push back at what I see as smug white delusion. Here are a few reasons race relations deserve more attention, not less:
那就让我来驳斥这种自鸣得意的白人错觉吧。我们应该更关注种族关系，而不是减少对它的关注，以下是其中一些理由：
• The net worth of the average black household in the United States is $6,314, compared with $110,500 for the average white household, according to 2011 census data. The gap has worsened in the last decade, and the United States now has a greater wealth gap by race than South Africa did during apartheid. (Whites in America on average own almost 18 times as much as blacks; in South Africa in 1970, the ratio was about 15 times.)
2011年的人口普查数据显示，美国普通黑人家庭的净资产为6,314美元（约合4万元人民币），而普通白人家庭的净资产则为110,500美元。过去十年，两者之间差距加大，美国现在不同种族之间的财富差距，比南非在种族隔离时期的水平还严重。（平均下来，美国白人的财产几乎是黑人的18倍，而在1970年的南非，这一比例约为15倍。）
• The black-white income gap is roughly 40 percent greater today than it was in 1967.
眼下，黑人和白人的收入差距几乎比1967年高出40%。
• A black boy born today in the United States has a life expectancy five years shorter than that of a white boy.
美国现在出生的黑人男孩的寿命，比白人男孩短5年。
• Black students are significantly less likely to attend schools offering advanced math and science courses than white students. They are three times as likely to be suspended and expelled, setting them up for educational failure.
和白人学生相比，黑人学生去开设了高级数学和理科课程的学校读书的可能性明显更小。他们被勒令休学和开除的可能性是白人学生的三倍，导致了他们在受教育方面的失败。
• Because of the catastrophic experiment in mass incarceration, black men in their 20s without a high school diploma are more likely to be incarcerated today than employed, according to a study from the National Bureau of Economic Research. Nearly 70 percent of middle-aged black men who never graduated from high school have been imprisoned.
美国国家经济研究局(National Bureau of Economic Research)的数据显示，因为对大规模监禁进行的灾难性实验，20多岁的没有高中毕业文凭的黑人，入狱的可能性比受雇工作要大。在高中未毕业的中年黑人中，近70%有入狱经历。
All these constitute not a black problem or a white problem, but an American problem. When so much talent is underemployed and overincarcerated, the entire country suffers.
所有这些构成的不是黑人或白人的问题，而是美国的问题。当这么多人才未充分就业并被过度拘禁时，受到损害的是整个国家。
Some straight people have gradually changed their attitudes toward gays after realizing that their friends — or children — were gay. Researchers have found that male judges are more sympathetic to women’s rights when they have daughters. Yet because of the de facto segregation of America, whites are unlikely to have many black friends: A study from the Public Religion Research Institute suggests that in a network of 100 friends, a white person, on average, has one black friend.
在意识到自己的朋友——或子女——是同性恋后，一些异性恋人士逐步改变了他们对同性恋的态度。研究人员发现，自己有女儿的男性法官，更同情女性的权利。然而，因为美国实际上的种族隔离，白人不太可能有很多黑人朋友：公共宗教研究所(Public Religion Research Institute)的一项研究显示，在一个白人的朋友圈中，100个朋友中平均只有1个黑人。
That’s unfortunate, because friends open our eyes. I was shaken after a well-known black woman told me about looking out her front window and seeing that police officers had her teenage son down on the ground after he had stepped out of their upscale house because they thought he was a prowler. “Thank God he didn’t run,” she said.
这一点令人遗憾，因为朋友会开阔我们的眼界。一位著名的黑人女性和我说起过她的经历，让我震惊。她透过自家房前的窗户看到，她十几岁的儿子在走出他们的高档住宅后被警察摁倒在了地上，因为他们以为他是小偷。“谢天谢地他没跑，”她说。
One black friend tells me that he freaked out when his white fiancée purchased an item in a store and promptly threw the receipt away. “What are you doing?” he protested to her. He is a highly successful and well-educated professional but would never dream of tossing a receipt for fear of being accused of shoplifting.
一个黑人朋友和我说，当他的白人未婚妻在店里买完东西并立即就把收据扔了后，他吓坏了。“你在干什么？”他向她抗议道。他是一名非常成功的职业人士，受过良好的教育，但因为害怕被当做入店行窃，他做梦也想不到要扔掉发票。
Some readers will protest that the stereotype is rooted in reality: Young black men are disproportionately likely to be criminals.
一些读者会抗议，这种定型观念根植于现实：年轻黑人沦为罪犯的可能性更大。
That’s true — and complicated. “There’s nothing more painful to me,” the Rev. Jesse Jackson once said, “than to walk down the street and hear footsteps and start thinking about robbery — then look around and see somebody white and feel relieved.”
是这样的——但情况复杂。杰西·杰克逊牧师(Jesse Jackson)曾说过，“对我来说，最痛苦的莫过于走在街上，听到脚步声后开始想到抢劫——然后向四周看看，看到白人后松了一口气。”
All this should be part of the national conversation on race, as well, and prompt a drive to help young black men end up in jobs and stable families rather than in crime or jail. We have policies with a robust record of creating opportunity: home visitation programs like Nurse-Family Partnership; early education initiatives like Educare and Head Start; programs for troubled adolescents like Youth Villages; anti-gang and anti-crime initiatives like Becoming a Man; efforts to prevent teen pregnancies like the Carrera curriculum; job training like Career Academies; and job incentives like the earned-income tax credit.
所有这些都应该成为全国种族讨论的一部分，并催生帮助年轻黑人最终找到工作、组建稳定家庭的动力，而不是让他们走上犯罪道路或入狱受罚。我们有一些政策在创造机会方面表现卓著，比如“护士-家庭伙伴”( Nurse-Family Partnership)等家庭访问项目、像爱度凯尔(Educare)和学前教育计划(Head Start)这样的早教项目、青年村(Youth Villages)等面向问题青少年的项目、成为一个男人(Becoming a Man)等反黑帮和犯罪的活动、卡雷拉(Carrera)课程等预防青少年怀孕的活动、职业学院(Career Academies)等工作培训项目以及劳动所得税抵扣等工作刺激计划。