A decade ago, a couple running a dairy business in Northern California visited a Mennonite farm where the owner had used a flock of laying hens to teach his children business principles and instill values like responsibility and care for nature.
十年前，一对在北加利福尼亚经营乳品业的夫妻去门诺特(Mennonite)一家农场拜访。那位农场主用一群孵蛋的母鸡来教授孩子们商业原则，潜移默化地传达责任心、热爱大自然等价值观。
They returned home and bought 150 hens for their boys, Christian and Joseph. “My parents told us, you and Joseph are in charge of keeping these 150 birds alive,” recalled Christian Alexandre, who now heads the family’s egg business.
夫妻俩回到家后，也给自己的儿子克里斯蒂安(Christian)和约瑟夫(Joseph)买了150只母鸡。“爸爸妈妈告诉我们，你和约瑟夫要负责照顾这150只鸡，让它们活着，”克里斯蒂安·亚历山大(Christian Alexandre)说，如今他主管家族的鸡蛋生意。
What started as a parental effort to instill solid values has become the mainstay of Alexandre Family EcoDairy Farms. Within five years, Christian and Joseph were tending 1,500 hens and had a deal in place to supply eggs to Whole Foods stores in Northern California. Christian remembers Walter Robb, co-chief executive of the grocery retailer, showing up at one of his football games.
这个最初是父母为传授好的价值观所做的努力，如今却成了“亚历山大家庭生态乳品农场”(Alexandre Family EcoDairy Farms)的支柱。五年之内，克里斯蒂安和约瑟夫就养殖了1500只母鸡，和北加州的“整体食品”(Whole Foods)连锁店签约，向他们供应鸡蛋。克里斯蒂安还记得这家零售公司的联合首席执行官沃尔特·罗布(Walter Robb)还到他打的一场橄榄球赛上观赛。
The rusty red chickens foraging in the fields outnumber the cows 10 to 1 — and the roughly five million eggs they will produce this year command prices that make organic milk look cheap. “The egg business has kept the dairy going for several years,” Blake Alexandre, Christian’s father, said.
砖红色的小鸡们在田野里觅食，小鸡的数量是奶牛的十倍，今年，它们将提供约500万枚鸡蛋，价格会比有机牛奶高。“几年来，一直是鸡蛋业在支撑着乳品业走下去，”克里斯蒂安的父亲布莱克·亚历山大(Blake Alexandre)说。
Alexandre Kids Eggs produces pastured eggs, which on their farm means that the hens live in housing that allows them to spend much of the day in open pasture. While still a minuscule portion of the roughly 75 billion eggs produced in the United States each year, pastured eggs like theirs are one of the fastest-growing category of eggs in America today.
“亚历山大孩童鸡蛋”(Alexandre Kids Eggs)出品土生鸡蛋，在他们的农场，这意味着母鸡们一天里的大部分时间可以在外面的牧场活动。美国每年约出品750亿枚鸡蛋，像他们这样的土鸡蛋所占比例虽然小，但现在却是美国鸡蛋业内增长最快的种类之一。
Consumers have grown more aware of the conditions under which many of the nation’s laying hens live, thanks to undercover videos from animal welfare advocates and, more recently, photos of hundreds of thousands of dead birds being tossed out of hangar-size barns after outbreaks of avian flu.
由于动物福利宣传者们公布的各种秘密录像，以及最近，禽流感爆发后，成百上千只死鸡从飞机库那么大的仓库里被丢出来的组照，让消费者们也开始日益关注这个国家里诸多蛋鸡的生存状况。
Pastured eggs from hens allowed to roam about help to address some of those concerns about how foods are produced and the impact such systems have on the environment, animal welfare and health and nutrition.
有人担心鸡们的饲料是怎么做成的，这样放养母鸡会对环境、动物福利、健康与营养造成什么样的影响。而那些可以到处走来走去的母鸡下的土鸡蛋，则帮助安抚了这些担忧。
“The egg market for probably the last 30 years has been a very sleepy category,” said Betsy Babcock, a proprietor of Handsome Brook Farm, a pastured egg business with operations in 41 states. “What we’ve seen over the last year or so, though, is a revolution, with pastured eggs going from being a niche-y segment in the natural food market and Whole Foods to being a thriving business in places like Kroger.”
“过去30年间，鸡蛋市场一直都处于不活跃的状态，”“英俊布鲁克农场”(Handsome Brook Farm)的业主贝特西·巴布考克(Betsy Babcock)说，这家土鸡产业在41个州都有生意。“去年一年来，我们目睹了土鸡蛋从天然食品市场中的小众鸡蛋，发展到今天这样的繁荣景象，以及‘整体食品’在像克罗格(Kroger)这样的地方，成长为一家欣欣向荣的企业。这些都不失为一场革命。”
Not all eggs labeled “pastured” are the same — there are no federal regulations governing use of the terms “pastured,” “free range” or “cage-free” on egg cartons.
带有“土鸡蛋”标签的鸡蛋并不都是一回事，对鸡蛋盒上“放养”(pastured)、“散养”(free range)和“非笼养”(cage-free)几种说法的使用，并没有统一的联邦管理标准。
Thus, the Babcocks’ production regimen for eggs labeled “pastured” is somewhat different from the Alexandres’, which in turn is different from the operations of Vital Farms, another large pastured-egg supplier.
因此，巴布考克的“土鸡蛋”生产方法和亚历山大的并不相同，亚历山大的农场和另一家大型土鸡蛋供应商“生机农场”(Vital Farms)又不相同。
Hens producing pastured eggs may indeed live in lush pastures — or they may merely have access to a patch of dirt outside their barn. Eggs labeled “cage-free” typically means the hens that laid them were free to move about inside a barn kitted out with an aviary system of roosts, nests and feeding stations — but with no outdoor access at all.
生产土鸡蛋的母鸡可能确实生活在水草丰富的牧场，但它们也有可能只能在鸡舍外的一小块脏兮兮的地上走走。标记“非笼养”的鸡蛋一般意味着母鸡可以在配备了鸡窝和喂食点的饲养场里随意走动，但根本不能到户外去。
“There’s quite a range of operations among businesses that label their eggs pastured,” said Mark Kastel, co-founder and senior farm policy analyst at the Cornucopia Institute, which publishes the Organic Egg Scorecard, a ratings system.
“这个行业里有各种各样的操作方法，他们都把自己的产品标记为土鸡，”“丰饶角学院”(Cornucopia Institute)的创始人兼资深农业政策分析师马克·卡斯特尔(Mark Kastel)说，这个机构刚刚公布了评价系统“有机鸡蛋计分卡”(Organic Egg Scorecard.)。
Cornucopia is updating its egg report, thus Mr. Kastel and his team have recently visited egg farms around the country, hoping to clarify the terminology used on egg cartons. Its highest rating will go to egg businesses like the Alexandres’, where most of the hens are outside in mobile housing during the day with access to fresh pasture.
“丰饶角”正在更新自己的鸡蛋报告，卡斯特尔和自己的团队最近访问了全国各地的鸡蛋农场，希望澄清鸡蛋包装上印制的各种措辞。该机构最高的评级是亚历山大农场这类的农场，大多数母鸡白天可以在室外活动，吃新鲜的牧草。
“To get the very best eggs, consumers need to do their homework,” Mr. Kastel said. “Despite federal organic law that requires access to the outdoors, many of the leading organic brands come from giant henhouses with as many as 180,000 birds, offering nothing more than a tiny screened porch.”
“为了获取最好的鸡蛋，消费者需要做做功课，”卡斯特尔说。“尽管联邦有机法律规定，母鸡必须能去室外，许多顶尖有机品牌还是修建了超大鸡舍，里面养着多达18万只鸡，只有一个带纱门的小走廊而已。”
In 2008, California voters passed a ballot measure requiring egg producers to provide more spacious living conditions for laying hens. Eggs imported to California from other states also must come from hens housed to the same standard.
2008年，加利福尼亚选民投票通过了一项法案，要求鸡蛋生产者为蛋鸡提供足够宽敞舒适的生活条件。从其他州进口到加利福尼亚的鸡蛋必须来自满足同样条件的鸡舍。
In the meantime, major food businesses like Taco Bell and Panera Bread have made commitments to require the eggs they use to come from cage-free environments, which are a step beyond the colony cages that are the minimum needed to meet the California regulations.
与此同时，塔可钟(Taco Bell)和帕纳拉面包(Panera Bread)等大型食品企业也承诺使用非笼养环境下产出的鸡蛋，此前加利福尼亚州对蛋鸡的最低标准是平置笼养（colony cage，亦是一种笼养方式，比下文的‘排笼饲养’宽敞，有更多活动空间——译注），新举措无疑是又前进了一步。
Finally, after the avian flu epidemic that killed tens of millions of laying hens this year, some major egg producers decided to replace at least some of their conventional housing with cage-free systems.
终于，在今年禽流感杀死了数千万只蛋鸡后，一些大型鸡蛋生产商决定，至少把部分传统鸡舍换成非笼养系统。
Costco began reducing its sales of conventional eggs in 2007, according to Craig Wilson, its vice president for food safety and quality assurance. “It just seemed to us at the time that battery cages were going to go away, and anyway, they’re not a good thing,” Mr. Wilson said.
好市多(Costco)自2007年起，便开始减少销售以传统方式生产的鸡蛋，公司负责安全与质量保障的副总裁克里格·威尔逊(Craig Wilson)说，“当时我们觉得，层架式鸡笼(battery cage)将会被淘汰，而且它们也不是什么好商品。”
In August and September of this year, which are not particularly big months for egg sales at Costco, the grocery chain sold 516 million eggs, he said.
对于好市多来说，8、9月并不是鸡蛋销售的旺季，即便如此，今年的这个时段，这家连锁杂货店还是售出了5.16亿只鸡蛋，威尔逊说。
Just 39 percent of those eggs came from birds housed in conventional systems. About 30 percent came from hens housed in colony cages, and the rest were from birds in cage-free systems or raised organically, free range or pastured.
这些鸡蛋当中，只有39%来自传统方式饲养下的蛋鸡。约30%来自平置笼养的蛋鸡；其他都是来自非笼养系统与有机方式饲养的蛋鸡，有散养鸡，也有土鸡。
Only 1.5 million eggs sold in August and September were from pastured operations like the Alexandres’, who have been Costco suppliers since 2014. “Could we rely on that kind of production for the nation’s egg supply?” Mr. Wilson said. “No. But our members just love them and so we do our best to support their desires.”
该连锁店8、9月间出售的鸡蛋里，只有150万只蛋来自亚历山大这样的土鸡场，2014年起，亚历山大成了好市多的供货商。“我们能依靠这种生产方式满足全国的鸡蛋供应吗？”威尔逊说。“不能。但我们的会员喜欢它们，所以我们就尽可能地满足他们的愿望。”
Costco, in fact, has inspired the Alexandres to double the number of laying hens they have over the next year.
事实上，好市多激发了亚历山大兄弟，他们计划明年把蛋鸡数量扩充一倍。
Their egg production system lives side-by-side with the milk business that Blake and Stephanie Alexandre started with when they bought the first 572 acres here, just eight miles south of the Oregon border and about a mile from the Pacific Ocean on land where giant redwood trees once grew.
他们的鸡蛋生产体系就在布莱克与斯蒂芬妮·亚历山大(Stephanie Alexandre)的牛奶产业旁边，夫妻俩创立企业时，买下了572公顷土地，位于俄勒冈边境以南8英里，距离太平洋海岸一英里，这里曾经生长着巨大的红杉。
The mild climate — the temperature fluctuates by only 11 degrees throughout the year — is ideal for outdoor hens, and rotating chickens and cows in pastures has a number of benefits for livestock and soil. Chickens, which are natural foragers, peck at cow patties to extract fly larvae and in the process help distribute manure around a field (as well as keep the fly population to a minimum). “They’re our best manure spreaders,” Christian Alexandre said.
这里的温度一年只波动11度，温和的气候非常适合室外养鸡，而且在牧场上轮流饲养鸡类和奶牛，这对家畜和土壤都有很多好处。鸡是天生的觅食者，从牛粪中啄食蛆虫，从而有助于散布肥料（也有助于把苍蝇的数目减少到最低）。“它们是我们的最佳施肥工，”克里斯蒂安·亚历山大说。
That helps fertilize grass for the family’s 3,500 dairy cows, which are managed organically, to graze on. Vanessa Alexandre, who graduated last summer from California Polytechnic University, is immersing herself in the dairy business and recently struck a deal to provide milk from the family’s herd of 100 percent grass-fed cows to a large grocery business for its private label yogurt, which is made from milk from grass-fed cows. She plans to increase the number of cows raised solely on grass, rather than on grass and feed, as well.
亚历山大的牧场上养了3500头乳牛，也是有机饲养的，有了母鸡们的施肥，供乳牛们吃的牧草就更加肥沃了。凡妮莎·亚历山大(Vanessa Alexandre)去年夏天从加利福尼亚理工大学(California Polytechnic University)毕业，加入了家族的奶牛产业，最近她签下一单生意，把将家中100%草饲的奶牛所产的牛奶提供给一家大型百货商，供其生产私家品牌的酸奶。该品牌的酸奶所用的都是来自草饲奶牛的牛奶。她计划提升百分百草饲奶牛的数量，而不是兼喂草料和饲料。
The farm has nine chicken flocks, each typically numbering about 3,500 birds. The flocks are somewhat smaller now after a bout of cholera wiped out about a third of the hens last spring.
农场有九个鸡群，每个鸡群一般是3500只鸡。在春天的一场霍乱令三分之一的母鸡丧生之后，鸡群的规模就变小了一些。
The flocks are rotated to new pastures every Tuesday and Friday, leaving behind a section of field shaved as close as a chin in the morning. The pasture then is left alone for a month or so to allow grass to regrow before cows are returned to it.
鸡群和牛群轮流到新牧场觅食，每周二、周五轮换，它们觅食过的草场就像早上刚刮过胡子的下巴那么干净。之后这片草场将会轮休一个月左右，让新草长出来，下一批母牛又可以来吃。
The hen barns, made from tin reclaimed from the farm in Southern California where Mrs. Alexandre grew up, and heated by solar panels on the roofs, move around on wheels. Christian Alexandre designed the barns, basing the design on the picturesque caravanlike coops he first saw as a boy on the Mennonite farm.
建造鸡舍用的锡板是农场从南加州回收而来的，亚历山大夫人就是在那里长大。鸡舍依靠屋顶的太阳能设备供暖，下面有轮子可以到处移动。这个鸡舍是克里斯蒂安·亚历山大设计的，他小时候第一次在门诺特农场看到奇特的、大篷车式的鸡舍，后来就按照这个设计了自家的鸡舍。
The barns are split in the middle and separated, to give the birds ample room to walk in and out. Nesting boxes hover over a wide canvas belt that catches the eggs as they are laid. Some of the farm’s 85 employees turn hand cranks each morning to move the belt, collecting the eggs at one end and delivering them to a facility where they are washed, inspected and packed.
鸡舍可以从中间拆分，让鸡们有足够的空间走进走出。蛋箱悬在一条宽阔的帆布带子上，承载着生出的鸡蛋。农场的85名雇员中，有些人负责每天早晨扳动手柄去移动那条带子，在带子的一端收集鸡蛋，把它们送到另一处设备中进行清洗、检查、装箱。
Roosts for the birds slope up to the rafters of a barn. Very few birds were inside the barns on a recent visit, but they all return at night. “The best thing about chickens is you don’t have to herd them,” Blake Alexandre said.
鸡笼一直延伸到鸡舍的房梁，但最近去参观时，几乎没有什么鸡留在室内，但它们晚上会回到室内。“鸡最好的地方就是，你用不着把它们赶在一起，”布莱克·亚历山大说。
The eggs sell for as much as 53 cents each — Christian Alexandre declined to reveal the profit margin. Costco sells 18 of them for $9.49 and is working with the family to reduce the price.
亚历山大的鸡蛋每只售价53美分，克里斯蒂安·亚历山大拒绝透露具体利润率。好市多的售价是9.49美元18个，目前它正在和亚历山大合作，希望降低价格。
Handsome Brook, which grew out of a bed-and-breakfast farm that the Babcocks opened after they retired from the health care business, contracts for eggs with about 50 farms in 41 states that have some 250,000 hens in total. Its production, about 82 million eggs this year, dwarfs the Alexandres’ — and it plans to have 120 farms under contract next year, more than doubling its production.
“英俊布鲁克”已经发展为一家B&B农场，是巴布考克一家从健康服务行业退休后开的，与41个州的50个农场签约合作，总共拥有25万只母鸡。今年它的产量大约是8200万只鸡蛋，令亚历山大家相形见绌，它还计划明年令签约农场的数字达到120家，让产量也增长一倍多。
Each farm houses an average of 5,000 birds in a barn on a 12.5-acre pasture, Ms. Babcock said. The chickens are fenced off in a section of that pasture until they have pecked the grass down to dirt; then they are moved to another section.
巴布考克夫人说，签约的每家农场会在一处12.5英亩的土地上饲养平均5000只鸡。这些鸡被栏杆隔在一个区域内，直到这片地上的草被它们吃完，然后就换到另一个区域。
“We’re seeing 100 percent year-over-year growth in sales in the stores where our eggs are sold,” Ms. Babcock said. “We think we’re just at the beginning of what’s going to be a very big business.”
“在很多店里，我们的鸡蛋销售年度同比增长达到一倍，”巴布考克夫人说。“我们觉得这会变成一个很大的产业，而我们这才刚刚开始。”