ST PAUL — Minnesota’s governor called on Thursday for a federal investigation into the shooting of a black man by a police officer during a traffic stop near St. Paul, after millions of people watched the bloody, dying man in a grisly video recorded by his girlfriend and streamed live moments after the shooting.
圣保罗——周四，针对一名警察在圣保罗附近截查车辆时枪击一名黑人的事件，明尼苏达州长要求展开联邦调查。此前，数百万人在一段令人毛骨悚然的视频中看到了那名浑身是血、奄奄一息的男子。枪击事件发生后不久，他的女朋友录制了视频，并进行了现场直播。
The deadly encounter Wednesday night in the city of Falcon Heights was at least the second shooting this week of a black man by police officers, and followed the killing of a man in Baton Rouge during an attempted arrest. Parts of both encounters were recorded on video.
这起死亡事件发生在法尔考高地市，时间是周三晚上。这至少是本周第二起警察枪击黑人事件。在这之前，巴吞鲁日一名男子在警察的抓捕行动中被开枪打死。两次事件的部分片段都被视频记录了下来。
The graphic video from Minnesota showed Philando Castile, 32, who had been shot several times, slumping against the woman who was recording the scene. As she did so, her 4-year-old daughter sat in the back seat and an officer stood just outside the driver’s side window, still aiming his gun at the mortally wounded man at point-blank range.
在明尼苏达的这起事件中，视频清晰地显示，时年32岁的菲兰多·卡斯蒂尔(Philando Castile)身中多枪，倒向正在录制视频的女子。在她录视频时，她四岁的女儿坐在后座上，一名警察就站在驾驶员一边的侧窗外，仍把枪近距离对准那名身受致命伤的男子。
The video is all the more shocking for the calm, clear narration of the woman, Diamond Reynolds, who can be heard saying that Castile had done nothing wrong, and the fact that she streamed it live on Facebook. On the video, Reynolds gives her account of what happened, saying again and again that Castile was just reaching for his driver’s license and registration — as the officer had requested — when the officer opened fire.
名为黛蒙德·雷诺兹(Diamond Reynolds)的这名女子镇定、清晰的表述，让这段视频愈发令人震惊。从中可以听到她说卡斯蒂尔没做错什么，并告知对方她正在Facebook上直播此事。在视频中，雷诺兹陈述了事情的经过，一遍又一遍地说警察开火时，卡斯蒂尔只是在按照警察的要求掏驾照和行车执照。
“Please, officer, don’t tell me that you just did this to him,” she said. “You shot four bullets into him, sir. He was just getting his license and registration, sir.”
“警官，请不要告诉我，你对他做了这种事，”她说。“你朝他开了四枪，警官。他只是在取驾照和行车执照，警官。”
As the video circulated widely on social media, hundreds of protesters gathered outside the governor’s mansion in St. Paul. Some voiced anger that Gov. Mark Dayton did not respond faster.
随着这段视频在社交媒体上广泛流传，成百上千名抗议者聚集在圣保罗的州长官邸外。一些人表示了对州长马克·戴顿(Mark Dayton)未能更快行动的愤怒。
Thirteen hours after the shooting, Dayton, a Democrat, released a statement on the incident, saying that he had spoken with a White House official to request a Justice Department investigation. Rep. Betty McCollum, D-Minn., had called for the Justice Department to investigate earlier Thursday. The state Bureau of Criminal Apprehension is already investigating.
枪击事件发生13小时后，身为民主党人的戴顿就事件发表声明，称他已同一名白宫官员进行了沟通，请求司法部展开调查。周四早些时候，明尼苏达州民主党众议员贝蒂·麦科勒姆(Betty McCollum)也要求司法部进行调查。该州犯罪分析局(Bureau of Criminal Apprehension)已开始调查。
The Justice Department released an ambiguous response to the governor’s call for a federal investigation, saying that it “will continue to monitor the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension investigation into the death of Philando Castile, and will independently assess what further action may be warranted.”
对于明尼苏达州长进行联邦调查的要求，司法部做出了含糊不清的回应，称其将“继续监督明尼苏达犯罪分析局对菲兰多·卡斯蒂尔死亡一事的调查，并就采取进一步行动的必要性进行独立评估”。
Jon Mangseth, the interim police chief of St. Anthony, said he could not provide any details about the shooting, but said the officer had been put on administrative leave. He declined to identify the officers involved, but said that the one who fired — whom Ms. Reynolds described as Asian-American — had been with the department for more than five years.
圣安东尼临时警察局长乔恩·芒塞思(Jon Mangseth)称无法提供有关此次事件的任何细节，但表示已令那名警察行政休假。他不愿透露涉事警察的身份，但表示开火的那名警察——雷诺兹称其是一名亚裔美国人——任职已超过五年。