BEIJING — Merrill Newman is 85 and suffers from a heart ailment, but that did not deter him from fulfilling his wish to return to North Korea where he fought as a young man, his family and friends say.
北京——梅里尔·纽曼(Merrill Newman)的家人和朋友表示，纽曼已经85岁，而且患有心脏疾病，但这没有阻挡他完成重回朝鲜的愿望，他年轻的时候曾在朝鲜作战。
With a companion from his California retirement village, Mr. Newman booked a nine-day trip to the most closed society in the world, a nuclear-armed state that keeps its people in poverty and is an enemy of the United States. Some call the country the last frontier of travel.
纽曼与同住在加利福尼亚退休人员社区的一个同伴一起预订了为期九天的旅程，前往世界上最封闭的国家，这个有核国家使自己的人民陷于贫困，而且是美国的敌人。有人说，这个国家是终极的旅行目的地。
“Why do World War II veterans go back to Normandy?” Mr. Newman’s son, Jeff, asked this week as he dealt with the reality that his father has been detained in North Korea for nearly a month and that his whereabouts remained unclear. “The war had a powerful impact on him.”
“二战老兵为什么要回诺曼底？”本周，纽曼的儿子杰夫(Jeff)如是问道。“朝鲜战争对他产生了巨大的影响。”杰夫面对着这样一个现实，他父亲已经被朝鲜扣押了将近一个月，具体下落仍然不明。
Mr. Newman and his friend had completed their tour and were on board an Air Koryo plane in Pyongyang ready to leave for Beijing on Oct. 26 when uniformed North Korean officers escorted him off, his son said. He has not been heard from since.
纽曼的儿子表示，纽曼和朋友结束旅程，并于10月26日在平壤登上高丽航空(Air Koryo)的飞机，准备飞往北京，就在这时，身穿制服的朝鲜军官带走了他。自那以后，人们就失去了他的消息。
The day before they were scheduled to leave North Korea, Mr. Newman had a conversation about the Korean War and his service as a soldier with one of his tour guides and another Korean whose identity is not known, his son said. According to the son, Mr. Newman was upset afterward and indicated to his friend, Bob Hamrdla, that the talk did not go well.
纽曼的儿子表示，在他们按计划离开朝鲜的前一天，纽曼向一名导游及一名身份未知的朝鲜人谈起了朝鲜战争，以及自己当兵的经历。据纽曼的儿子透露，纽曼后来非常难过，并且告诉朋友鲍勃·哈姆德拉(Bob Hamrdla)，谈话并不顺利。
Mr. Newman is part of a small but growing number of Americans, Europeans and Chinese who have signed up in recent years to visit the North on state-approved tours, despite the difficulties inherent in traveling to an impoverished police state.
到一个贫困的极权国家旅行是一件困难重重的事情，但最近几年，一些美国人、欧洲人及中国人还是报名参加经过朝鲜批准的赴朝旅行团，人数虽少但却不断增加，纽曼就是其中之一。
Tourists must be accompanied at all times by state-authorized guides who prevent much interaction with ordinary people, itineraries are set in advance and creature comforts are limited.
游客必须由国家认可的导游全程陪同，这些导游会阻止游客与普通人进行过多互动，行程是提前设定的，物质享受有限。
“It tends to be for curiosity seekers who have been everywhere and want to see the place,” said Tony Namkung, a North Korea expert.
朝鲜问题专家托尼·纳姆昆(Tony Namkung)说，“去那里的往往是那些去过很多地方的猎奇者，他们想看看这个地方。”
Mr. Newman, who has visited Cuba according to his son, traveled to North Korea with Juche Travel Services, an agency that advertises offices in Beijing, London and Berlin. The group was founded in 2011, according to its website. Reached by telephone, the head of the London office, David Thompson, said that because of Mr. Newman’s detention he could not talk.
据纽曼的儿子透露，纽曼曾去过古巴。他通过自主旅行社(Juche Travel Services)前往朝鲜旅游，该旅行社宣称在北京、伦敦及柏林拥有分公司。根据该旅行社的网站提供的信息，该公司成立于2011年。我们通过电话联系到伦敦分公司的负责人戴维·汤普森(David Thompson)，他表示，由于纽曼遭到了扣押，他不能发表言论。
In the last several years, and particularly under Kim Jong-un, who became the country’s leader in 2011, North Korea has tried to attract Western tourists.
过去几年，尤其是在金正恩(Kim Jong-un)上台之后，朝鲜一直在设法吸引西方游客。金正恩于2011年成为朝鲜领导人。
The government opened a dolphin aquarium in Pyongyang last year, and, despite a lack of money that keeps many of its people hungry, has started to build a ski resort at Masikryong on North Korea’s east coast. The Swiss government recently refused to sell ski equipment for the project, saying the country should not be able to afford such a luxury.
朝鲜政府去年在平壤开设了一个海豚水族馆，此外，尽管该国非常贫穷，致使很多民众处于饥饿状态，朝鲜还是开始在朝鲜东海岸的马息岭建造滑雪场。瑞士政府最近拒绝向该项目出售滑雪装备，称朝鲜不应该有能力负担这样的奢侈项目。
A wealthy European businessman who visited last year said he and his family were drawn by the desire to see a Communist country where a three-generation family dynasty has ruled with an iron hand. “You don’t even see that in Cuba,” said the businessman, who declined to be named for fear of publicity.
一名富有的欧洲商人曾于去年前往朝鲜，他称自己和家人很想看看这个遭受一家三代铁腕统治的共产党国家。这名商人表示，“在古巴你都看不到这种情况。”由于担心曝光，这名商人要求匿名。
During the visit, the family paid 200 euros a person for a seat at the main stadium to see a synchronized dancing show, visited a farm and was taken to a power plant.
旅行期间，这个家庭曾支付每人200欧元的费用在朝鲜的主体育场观看大型集体舞，参观了一个农场，还曾被带到一个发电厂去参观。
“As a tourist there is no freedom,” the businessman said. “After two days I was ready to leave.”
“游客没有自由，”这名商人说。“才去两天我就想走了。”
For the last decade or so, two travel agencies, Young Pioneer Tours and Koryo Tours, have been the main conduits for Western tourists, North Korea experts said. Juche Travel Services, which bills itself as tailored for the “modern independent traveler,” was a relative newcomer, they said.
朝鲜问题专家表示，过去10年左右的时间里，青年先锋旅行社(Young Pioneer Tours)和高丽旅行社(Koryo Tours)是西方游客前往朝鲜的主要渠道。他们表示，自主旅行社相对较新，该旅行社自称主要针对“现代散客”。
Named after the official state ideology of “self-reliance,” Juche Travel Services advertises offbeat tours, including a bird watching tour for October, and suggests an arms and equipment exhibition run by the Korean People’s Army as an attraction.
根据朝鲜官方的“自力更生”理念命名的自主旅行社(Juche Travel Services)兜售10月观鸟之类的新奇旅游项目，还用朝鲜人民军(North Korean People's Army)举办的武器装备展览来吸引游客。
All travel agencies outside North Korea must make their arrangements through the state-run Korea International Travel Company, which provides the guides, said Mr. Namkung, who has arranged trips for Bill Richardson, the former United Nations ambassador, and Eric E. Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google.
朝鲜以外的旅行社都必须通过国有的朝鲜国际旅行社(Korea International Travel Company)来安排行程，后者会提供导游，纳姆昆说。他曾为前联合国大使比尔·理查森(Bill Richardson)和谷歌(Google)执行总裁埃里克·E·施密特(Eric E. Schmidt)安排行程。
Mr. Newman and his traveling companion, Mr. Hamrdla, stayed at the Yanggakdo Hotel in Pyongyang, a 47-floor building located on an island. The hotel is one of the two main Western-style hotels in the capital, and it is increasingly favored by the North Koreans for tourists because its location makes it difficult for visitors to wander very far without being seen.
纽曼和他的旅伴哈姆德拉住在平壤的羊角岛酒店(Yanggakdo Hotel)，这栋47层的建筑坐落在岛上，是平壤的两个主要西式酒店之一。因为它的地理位置让游客难以在不受监视的情况下四处游走，朝鲜越来越倾向于让游客住在这里。
The itinerary for Mr. Newman and Mr. Hamrdla, who has since returned to the United States, took them to standard places. They visited Wonsan, on the east coast, and Nampho, a city southwest of Pyongyang, where a series of dams that hold back the tide are considered a tourist attraction.
根据路线安排，纽曼和已回到美国的哈姆德拉去的都是些常规的地方。他们去了东海岸的元山和位于平壤西南方向的南浦。南浦有一系列阻拦潮水的大坝，被朝鲜视作旅游景点。
Like most visitors, they also went to Kaesong, the industrial zone on the border with South Korea that the two countries jointly operate despite hostile relations.
与大多数游客一样，他们还去了开城；虽然朝韩两国关系恶劣，这个位于两国边境的工业区却由两国共同经营。
A person familiar with the situation surrounding Mr. Newman’s disappearance, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that inquiries about Mr. Newman by Swedish officials in Pyongyang who represent American interests in the North have been “stonewalled.”
一名熟知纽曼失踪情况的人士匿名表示，在平壤代表美国利益的瑞典官员曾询问纽曼的情况，但“碰了壁”。
On Thursday, Mr. Richardson — who has visited North Korea at least eight times, including a number of delicate diplomatic missions to secure the release of other detained Americans — also got involved in the effort to determine why Mr. Newman had been taken into custody. In a telephone interview, Mr. Richardson said that he had communicated with his North Korean contacts to express his concern, but that he had received no new information.
理查森曾到访朝鲜至少八次，其中多次是为了执行争取其他被拘美国人获释的敏感外交任务，周四，他也试图弄清楚纽曼为何被拘。理查森在电话采访中说，他已经与他在朝鲜的联络人进行了交流，表达了自己的担忧，但他尚未获得任何新信息。
“I’m flabbergasted at this action by the North Koreans,” he said. “It means that possibly there’s no one in charge, and that the relationship with the United States, unfortunately, is not going to be helped by this incident.”
“朝鲜的举动让我大吃一惊，”他说。“这意味着，那里可能没人在负责此事，而且不幸的是，这件事也不会对美朝关系有帮助。”
Several months ago, the country allowed a Korean War veteran who was searching for the body of a former friend to visit, and invited him back to keep trying. But the country continues to hold an American missionary, a Christian who was sentenced to 15 years hard labor for “hostile acts” against the Communist North, which human rights activists say does not tolerate religious freedom.
几个月以前，朝鲜曾允许一名试图寻找朋友遗体的朝鲜战争老兵到访朝鲜，后来还邀请这位老兵去朝鲜继续寻找。但是，朝鲜继续扣押着一名美国传教士，这名基督徒因为对共产主义国家朝鲜的“敌意举动”而被判15年劳改。人权活动人士称，朝鲜没有宗教自由。
Mr. Newman’s family members and those trying to help them are mainly concerned about his health. He was on a regimen of nine different medications for his heart ailment, according to an American official.
纽曼的家人和那些希望帮助他们的人担心的主要是他的健康状况。一名美国官员说，他目前正在用九种药物治疗心脏病。
The family sent a package with a 30-day supply of the medicines to the American Embassy in Beijing, his son said, and the package was forwarded to the Swedes in Pyongyang. The Swedes reported back that they had delivered the medicine to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but there was no word whether Mr. Newman had received them, his son said.
纽曼的儿子说，家人向美国驻北京大使馆寄了一个包裹，里面装着30天的药，包裹随后被转交给了平壤的瑞典人，瑞典人后来表示已将药物交给朝鲜外交部，但目前还没有消息表明纽曼是否收到了这些东西。
While Mr. Newman’s family worried about how and when they would hear of his condition, the postcards he wrote while on the trip, adorned with the elaborate postage stamps produced by the North Korean government, have started to arrive for family and friends.
纽曼的家人担心他们如何以及何时才能听到他的情况，与此同时，家人和朋友纷纷开始收到纽曼在旅行途中寄出的明信片，明信片上贴着朝鲜政府印制的精美邮票。
“They said he was having an excellent time,” the younger Mr. Newman said.
纽曼的儿子说，“明信片上说，他玩得很开心。”