NAIROBI, Kenya — For nearly a decade, the United States has been trying to fight the Somali Islamist group known as the Shabab, using everything from its African allies and economic sanctions to American missile strikes and commando raids.
肯尼亚内罗毕——近10年来，美国一直努力打击被称作青年党(Shabab)的索马里伊斯兰极端组织，手段包括利用非洲的盟友、经济制裁、美国导弹袭击和突击队。
On Tuesday, Pentagon officials announced that they had conducted American airstrikes to go after the leader of the Shabab directly, striking at the heart of a militant group that has allied itself with Al Qaeda and terrorized the region for years.
周二，五角大楼的官员宣布，为了对青年党的领导人发起直接打击，美国空袭了该激进组织的中心。青年党是基地组织(Al Qaeda)的盟友，多年来一直在该地区从事恐怖活动。
Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, said military officials were trying to assess whether the Shabab leader, Ahmed Abdi Godane, had been killed in the strikes, which took place on Monday on an encampment and a vehicle south of Mogadishu, the capital. The attack was carried out by Special Operations forces using both manned and unmanned aircraft, launched, Admiral Kirby said, based on “actionable” intelligence that Mr. Godane was at the encampment.
五角大楼新闻秘书约翰·F·柯比海军少将(Rear Adm. John F. Kirby)表示，军方官员正在尝试评估青年党领导人艾哈迈德·阿布迪·戈丹内(Ahmed Abdi Godane)是否已在周一的袭击中丧命。袭击的目标是索马里首都摩加迪沙以南的一处营地和一辆车。柯比说，执行袭击任务的是特种作战部队(Special Operations)，使用了载人飞机和无人机，行动的依据是有“充分的”情报显示，戈丹内就在那处营地。
The American warplanes dropped a number of Hellfire missiles and precision bombs. Defense officials said they believed that both the encampment and the vehicle had been destroyed, and that the militants there had been killed. But they were still trying to determine the fate of Mr. Godane.
美国战机投下了数枚“狱火”(Hellfire)式导弹和精确制导炸弹。国防部官员称，他们认为那处营地和那辆车均已被摧毁，那里的武装分子也已丧命。但他们依然在尝试确定戈丹内的下落。
“We certainly believe that we hit what we were aiming at,” Admiral Kirby said during a news briefing. He said that the United States would “continue to use all the tools at our disposal” to “dismantle Al Shabab and other terrorist groups.”
“我们确信击中了目标，”柯比在一场新闻发布会上说。他表示，美国将“继续动用掌握的一切手段”，“摧毁青年党和其他恐怖组织”。
One American official in Nairobi said that “we’re 80 percent sure” Mr. Godane was killed in the strike. Still, militants in places like Yemen and Pakistan have been thought to be killed in drone strikes just like this one, only to resurface weeks or months later, crowing about having survived American attempts to kill them.
身在内罗毕的一名美国官员说，“我们有80%的把握确信”戈丹内在这次袭击中丧命。然而，之前在也门和巴基斯坦等地，一些武装分子被认为死在了和这次袭击类似的无人机袭击中，几周或几个月后却再度露面，沾沾自喜于自己在美国试图杀死他们的行动中幸存了下来。
The airstrikes came nearly a year after a Navy SEAL team attempted a pre-dawn raid on another senior Shabab leader, Abdikadir Mohamed Abdikadir, who uses the nom de guerre Ikrimah. But the SEAL team was forced to withdraw, and the Shabab quickly tried to use the clash as a propaganda tool, boasting that their fighters had beaten back the Navy SEALs famed for killing Osama bin Laden.
近一年前，一支海豹突击队(Navy Seals)在黎明前对化名伊克里马赫(Ikrimah)的另一名青年党高级领导人阿卜迪卡迪尔·默罕默德·阿布迪卡迪尔(Abdikadir Mohamed Abdikadir)发起了突袭。但那支部队被迫撤退，青年党则很快尝试把那场冲突当做宣传工具，吹嘘他们的武装人员打退了因刺杀奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)而闻名的海豹突击队成员。
Admiral Kirby said that no American combat troops were on the ground calling in the airstrikes on Monday. “All I would tell you is we continue to work with partners in Somalia and in the region, but I won’t get any more specific than that,” he said.
柯比说，周一的空袭没有美国的地面部队进行引导。“我能告诉你们的是，我们会继续与索马里及该地区的合作伙伴携手，但我不能说得比这更具体了，”他说。
Mr. Godane has been the driving force behind turning what was once a poor, obscure local militant group in a country many had forgotten into one of the most fearsome Qaeda franchises in the world. At the height of its power, the Shabab, under Mr. Godane’s merciless leadership, controlled more square miles of territory than just about any other Qaeda offshoot.
青年党从被众人遗忘的国度里一个拙劣的、鲜为人知的地方性武装团体，变成了全世界最恐怖的基地组织盟友组织之一，这个过程中，戈丹内一直是背后的推动力量。在势力鼎盛时期，青年党在戈丹内的无情领导下控制了大片地区，几乎比其他任何一个基地组织分支都大。
Mr. Godane, thought to be around 40 years old, has been one of the most wanted figures in Africa, widely believed to have orchestrated countless attacks on civilians, including the massacre of dozens of shoppers at a mall in Nairobi last year. He has presided over a reign of terror inside Somalia for several years, organizing the stoning of teenage girls and crude public amputations, all part of an effort to place Somalia under a harsh interpretation of Islamic rule.
戈丹内的年龄据信在40岁上下，一直是非洲的通缉要犯。外界普遍认为他精心策划了针对平民的无数次袭击，包括去年在内罗毕一家商场残杀几十名购物者。他在索马里国内一个恐怖活动肆虐的地区称霸多年，组织过对十几岁女孩的石刑，残忍地公开斩断人的四肢。所有这些为的都是在索马里实现严酷的伊斯兰统治。
During Somalia’s famine in 2011, when more than 200,000 people died, Mr. Godane gave the orders to block food supplies from reaching starving people. His masked fighters even diverted rivers from famished farmers. Mr. Godane has also taken the Shabab’s violence international by organizing suicide attacks in Kenya and Uganda.
在2011年的索马里饥荒期间，超过20万人死亡，戈丹内却下令不让忍饥挨饿的民众获取食品供应。他手下头戴面罩的武装分子甚至还让河流改道，不让挨饿的农民利用河水。戈丹内还通过组织肯尼亚和和乌干达境内的自杀式袭击，让青年党的暴力走向国际化。
The Shabab leader is one of a number of terror suspects whom the military has standing orders to strike if the opportunity presents itself, administration officials said. President Obama has already authorized such strikes.
奥巴马政府的官员称，针对部分恐怖分子嫌疑人，美军下了长期有效的命令，一旦机会出现可以直接发起打击，戈丹内便是其中之一。奥巴马总统已经授权了这类攻击。
“This is not one of those cases where a permission slip is needed,” a senior administration official said on Tuesday.
“这不属于需要征得许可的情形，”奥巴马政府的一名高官周二表示。
American commandos have winnowed down the leadership of the Shabab, killing other leaders in airstrikes over the years, while thousands of African Union troops have pushed the group out of the capital, Mogadishu, and many of its strongholds.
美国的突击队已经削弱了青年党的领导层，在多年的空袭中杀死了其他领导人，同时，数千名非洲联盟(African Union)的士兵已把该组织赶出了索马里首都摩加迪沙和它的许多据点。
The Shabab are not nearly as powerful as they once were, when they controlled vast areas of southern Somalia and nearly overran the government. But they still control some towns and villages, and in recent days, they have stepped up assassinations of Somali officials in Mogadishu.
相比其曾一度控制索马里南部广大地区，并凌驾于政府之上的鼎盛时期，青年党的影响力已大大减弱。但他们依然控制着部分城镇和村落，而且最近，他们加强了在摩加迪沙暗杀索马里官员的行动。
Even if Mr. Godane was killed, some Somalia analysts said the terror threat in East Africa would remain.
部分索马里分析人士表示，即便戈丹内被打死了，东非的恐怖威胁依然存在。
“The U.S. has been so focused on Somalia, they took their eye off their ball,” said Bronwyn Bruton, deputy director of the Ansari Africa Center of the Atlantic Council in Washington. “The real threat isn’t Somalia itself. It’s the regionalization of Al Qaeda in East Africa, which has already been happening.”
“美国太关注索马里了，他们忽略了重点，”华盛顿大西洋理事会安萨里非洲中心(Ansari Africa Center of the Atlantic Council)主任布朗温·布鲁顿(Bronwyn Bruton)说。“真正的威胁不是索马里本身，而是基地组织在东非的区域化，这一点已经在发生了。”
She mentioned recent attacks in Uganda and Kenya, two countries with important and growing economies where many Westerners live, compared with Somalia, where there are scant few.
她提到了乌干达和肯尼亚最近发生的袭击。这两个国家的经济都颇为重要，且在不断增长，生活着许多西方人。而在索马里，西方人少之又少。
Still, American counterterrorism and intelligence officials greeted news of the airstrike with cautious optimism.
然而，美国的反恐和情报官员对此次空袭的新闻持谨慎的乐观态度。