In 2012 President Obama, ever hopeful that reason would prevail, predicted that his re-election would finally break the G.O.P.’s “fever.” It didn’t.
2012年，一直希望理智能占上风的奥巴马总统预言，自己的连任最终将击退共和党的“狂热”。事实却并非如此。
But the intransigence of the right wasn’t the only disease troubling America’s body politic in 2012. We were also suffering from fiscal fever: the insistence by virtually the entire political and media establishment that budget deficits were our most important and urgent economic problem, even though the federal government could borrow at incredibly low interest rates. Instead of talking about mass unemployment and soaring inequality, Washington was almost exclusively focused on the alleged need to slash spending (which would worsen the jobs crisis) and hack away at the social safety net (which would worsen inequality).
然而，右翼拒不妥协并不是2012年困扰美国人民的唯一恶疾。我们还深受财政狂热之苦：尽管联邦政府能以极低的利率借到钱，但几乎政界和媒体界的所有权威人士都坚持认为，预算赤字是我们最严重、最紧迫的经济问题。华盛顿没有讨论大规模失业和不平等现象急剧恶化的问题，反而基本上只去关注削减开支（会加剧就业危机）和瓦解社会安全保障（会加剧不平等）的所谓的必要性。
So the good news is that this fever, unlike the fever of the Tea Party, has finally broken.
因此，好消息是，不同于茶党(Tea Party)的狂热，这种狂热终于褪去了。
True, the fiscal scolds are still out there, and still getting worshipful treatment from some news organizations. As the Columbia Journalism Review recently noted, many reporters retain the habit of “treating deficit-cutting as a non-ideological objective while portraying other points of view as partisan or political.” But the scolds are no longer able to define the bounds of respectable opinion. For example, when the usual suspects recently piled on Senator Elizabeth Warren over her call for an expansion of Social Security, they clearly ended up enhancing her stature.
的确，斥责财政政策的依然大有人在。一些新闻机构也仍对这些人崇敬有加。正如《哥伦比亚新闻评论》(Columbia Journalism Review)前不久所指出的那样，许多记者保持着老习惯，“把其他一切观点都当做党派或政治纷争来报道，唯独认为削减赤字是一个不涉及意识形态的目标。”但那些批评者已经无法再去定义哪些观点值得令人尊敬了。比如，因为呼吁增加社会安全福利(Social Security)，参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)最近遭到了那撮“惯犯”的攻击，但显而易见的是，他们最终却只是提高了沃伦的名望。
What changed? I’d suggest that at least four things happened to discredit deficit-cutting ideology.
发生了什么变化？我认为，至少有四件事情碰巧让削减赤字这种思想失去了市场。
First, the political premise behind “centrism” — that moderate Republicans would be willing to meet Democrats halfway in a Grand Bargain combining tax hikes and spending cuts — became untenable. There are no moderate Republicans. To the extent that there are debates between the Tea Party and non-Tea Party wings of the G.O.P., they’re about political strategy, not policy substance.
首先，“中间路线”背后的政治前提——在既增税又削减开支的“大妥协”(Grand Bargain)中，共和党中的温和派愿意做出让步——站住不住脚了。共和党人中已经没有了温和派。虽然共和党内部的茶党和非茶党人士之间争论不休，但这些争论涉及的是政治战略，而非政策内容。
Second, a combination of rising tax receipts and falling spending has caused federal borrowing to plunge. This is actually a bad thing, because premature deficit-cutting damages our still-weak economy — in fact, we’d probably be close to full employment now but for the unprecedented fiscal austerity of the past three years. But a falling deficit has undermined the scare tactics so central to the “centrist” cause. Even longer-term projections of federal debt no longer look at all alarming.
其次，增税和削减开支已让联邦债务骤跌。这其实不是件好事，因为过早削减赤字会损害我们依然很疲软的经济。实际上，如果不是因为过去三年里史无前例的财政紧缩，我们现在可能已接近充分就业的水平了。但正在下跌的赤字削弱了“中间派”的这个至关重要的恐慌策略。即便是对联邦债务的较长期预测，看上去也根本不再令人惊慌。
Speaking of scare tactics, 2013 was the year journalists and the public finally grew weary of the boys who cried wolf. There was a time when audiences listened raptly to forecasts of fiscal doom — for example, when Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, co-chairmen of Mr. Obama’s debt commission, warned that a severe fiscal crisis was likely within two years. But that was almost three years ago.
说到恐慌策略，2013年是记者和公众终于厌倦了那些喊狼来了的人的一年。曾几何时，听众会全神贯注的倾听有关财政末日的预言。例如，奥巴马的赤字委员会联席主席埃尔斯肯·鲍尔斯(Erskine Bowles)和阿兰·辛普森(Alan Simpson)曾警告说，严重的财政危机可能会在两年内出现。但那是近三年前的事情了。
Finally, over the course of 2013 the intellectual case for debt panic collapsed. Normally, technical debates among economists have relatively little impact on the political world, because politicians can almost always find experts — or, in many cases, “experts” — to tell them what they want to hear. But what happened in the year behind us may have been an exception.
最后，在2013年里，债务恐慌在学术上的论据终于失去了说服力。通常，经济学家之间的技术性讨论对政界的影响相对较小，因为政界人士几乎总会找专家——或者很多情况下所谓的“专家”——说出他们自己想听的内容。但过去这一年发生的事情或许是个例外。
For those who missed it or have forgotten, for several years fiscal scolds in both Europe and the United States leaned heavily on a paper by two highly-respected economists, Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, suggesting that government debt has severe negative effects on growth when it exceeds 90 percent of G.D.P. From the beginning, many economists expressed skepticism about this claim. In particular, it seemed immediately obvious that slow growth often causes high debt, not the other way around — as has surely been the case, for example, in both Japan and Italy. But in political circles the 90 percent claim nonetheless became gospel.
有人可能没注意到或是忘记了，多年来，欧洲和美国斥责财政政策的人高度依赖两位备受尊敬的经济学家卡门·莱因哈特(Carmen Reinhart)和肯尼斯·罗格夫(Kenneth Rogoff)合写的一篇文章。这篇文章指出，当政府债务在国内生产总值中所占的比例超过90%时，便会给经济增长带来严重的消极影响。从一开始，许多经济学家就对这一说法表示了质疑。尤其是，增长缓慢往往会导致债务增加而不是反过来这一点很明显。比如，日本和意大利就出现过这种情况。然而，在政界，这个90%的说法成了真理。
Then Thomas Herndon, a graduate student at the University of Massachusetts, reworked the data, and found that the apparent cliff at 90 percent disappeared once you corrected a minor error and added a few more data points.
后来，马萨诸塞州大学(University of Massachusetts)的研究生托马斯·赫恩登(Thomas Herndon)重新运算了相关数据后发现，只要更正一个小错误，再多加一些数据点，那个看似确凿的90%悬崖就消失了。
Now, it’s not as if fiscal scolds really arrived at their position based on statistical evidence. As the old saying goes, they used Reinhart-Rogoff the way a drunk uses a lamppost — for support, not illumination. Still, they suddenly lost that support, and with it the ability to pretend that economic necessity justified their ideological agenda.
如此看来，批判财政政策的人似乎不是根据统计证据决定自己的立场的。正如老话所说，他们就像醉酒者对路灯竿的使用一样，只是用来支撑自己，而非用来看清事物。但突然之间，他们失去了这一支撑，连带着也失去了一种能力，这种能力就是，假装经济需要可以证明自己的意识形态议程的合理性。
Still, does any of this matter? You could argue that it doesn’t — that fiscal scolds may have lost control of the conversation, but that we’re still doing terrible things like cutting off benefits to the long-term unemployed. But while policy remains terrible, we’re finally starting to talk about real issues like inequality, not a fake fiscal crisis. And that has to be a move in the right direction.
但是，这都有关系吗？你可以说没关系——虽然那些指责财政政策的人可能失去了对舆论的控制，但我们依然在做可怕的事情，比如削减面向长期失业者的福利。然而，虽然政策依然很糟糕，但我们终于开始讨论像不平等现象这样真正存在的问题，而不是虚构出来的财政危机了。这也一定是往正确的方向所迈出的一步。