For years, virtually every new mother has been sent home from the hospital with a gift bag full of free product samples, including infant formula.
多年来，几乎每个新妈妈出院回家时，都会拎着一个装满了免费试用小样的礼品袋，里面通常都会有各种配方奶。
Now health authorities and breast-feeding advocates are leading a nationwide effort to ban formula samples, which often come in stylish bags with formula company logos. Health experts say they can sway women away from breast-feeding.
而现在，卫生管理机构和母乳喂养的呼吁人士正在牵着组织一场全美规模的运动，抵制配方奶赠品，这些赠品往往都会被放进漂漂亮亮的袋子里，上面印着奶粉公司的标志。卫生专家们说，这种赠品会让新妈妈们放弃母乳喂养。
As of 2011, nearly half of about 2,600 hospitals in a survey by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had stopped giving formula samples to breast-feeding mothers, up from a quarter in 2007. The survey did not ask about distributing samples to non-nursing mothers.
2011年，美国疾病控制与预防中心对2600家医院进行调查，结果发现其中近半数不再向母乳喂养的母亲提供配方奶赠品，而在2007年，这个比例只有四分之一。该调查并未询问向非母乳喂养母亲发放奶粉赠品的情况。
Recently, 24 hospitals in Oklahoma agreed to a ban, and Massachusetts became the second state, after Rhode Island, in which all hospitals halted free samples. In New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg started the “Latch On NYC” campaign, urging hospitals to stop giveaways and monitor formula like other medical supplies, stored in locked cabinets and accounted for when mothers have medical needs or request it; 28 of 40 hospitals have agreed.
罗德岛州的全部医院已禁止发放奶粉赠品，而近期，马萨诸塞州紧随其后，成为对奶粉下禁令的第二个州，俄克拉荷马州也有24家医院同意不再向新妈妈发放奶粉赠品。在纽约市，市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)发起了“母乳在纽约”(Latch on NYC)的活动，敦促医院停止发放奶粉赠品，同时像监控其他医疗用品一样监控配方奶，将其锁在柜子里，只有在新妈妈有医疗需求或主动提出要求时才会提供；在40家纽约市的医院中，已有28家同意活动的主张。
The debate over formula samples isn’t about whether breast-feeding is healthier. Even formula companies acknowledge that “breast milk is the gold standard; it’s the best for babies,” said Christopher Perille, a spokesman for Mead Johnson, which makes Enfamil formula.
关于发放配方奶赠品的争论，讨论的并不是母乳喂养是否更健康。甚至连配方奶公司都承认，“母乳是黄金标准；对宝宝是最好的，”生产婴儿配方奶粉的美赞臣公司(Mead Johnson)发言人克里斯托弗·佩里尔(Christopher Perille)这样说。
Breast-feeding decreases babies’ risk of ear infections, diarrhea, asthma and other diseases, and may reduce risk of obesity and slightly improve I.Q., experts say. The question is whether samples tempt mothers who could breast-feed exclusively for the recommended six months to use formula when they’re exhausted or discouraged if nursing proves difficult. The C.D.C., the World Health Organization and breast-feeding advocates say samples turn hospitals into formula sales agents and imply that hospitals think formula is as healthy as breast-feeding. Health experts warn that even small amounts of formula dilute breast-feeding’s benefits by altering intestinal micro-organisms and decreasing breast milk supply, since women produce less when babies nurse less. They say that while some women face serious breast-feeding challenges, more could nurse longer with greater support, and that formula samples can weaken that support system.
据专家们介绍，母乳喂养可降低婴儿患耳部感染、腹泻、哮喘和其他疾病的可能性，并有可能减少超重的危险，小幅度提高智商。问题是提供配方奶赠品是否会给一些新妈妈带来诱惑，导致这些本来有可能进行六个月全母乳喂养的妈妈在精疲力竭，或者在母乳喂养遇到困难而丧气的时候，转而投奔配方奶。美国疾控中心、世卫组织和母乳喂养呼吁人士说，赠品会令医院变成配方奶粉的销售代理，而且暗示人们，医院认为配方奶跟母乳一样健康。健康专家警告说，即使是少量喂养配方奶，也会淡化母乳喂养的益处，因为配方奶会改变婴儿的肠道微生物环境，而且由于母乳分泌量会随着喂奶次数减少而降低，也会导致母乳变少。他们说，尽管有些妇女在喂母乳方面确实会遇到非常严重的问题，但更多人只要能得到更有力的支持，是可以喂更长时间母乳的，而配方奶赠品会削弱对她们的支持力度。
“We’re not anti-formula,” said Dr. Melissa Bartick, a founder of Ban the Bags, a breast-feeding advocacy group, which reports that one-fifth of the country’s nearly 3,300 birthing programs have taken more comprehensive steps of banning samples and logo-emblazoned bags for all mothers. “If a woman makes an informed choice to formula-feed, the hospital should provide that formula. But hospitals shouldn’t be marketing it.”
“我们并不是反对配方奶，”梅丽莎·巴提克(Melissa Bartick)医生说，她是母乳倡导组织“禁发奶粉袋”(Ban the Gags)的创始人，该组织报告说，美国近3300个产科医院中，有五分之一已经采取了更为全面的措施，禁止向所有新妈妈发放配方奶样品和印有配方奶商标的袋子。“如果一位女性在充分知情的情况下，决定选择用配方奶进行人工喂养，那么医院就应当提供配方奶粉。但医院不应推广奶粉。”
The industry and some mothers say samples provide a healthy alternative and offer relief if nursing causes pain, fatigue or frustration. They disagree that samples can shake the resolve to breast-feed exclusively.
配方奶粉业和一些妈妈说，这些赠品能提供母乳之外另一种健康的选择，而且在喂母乳让妈妈感到痛苦、疲惫或沮丧时，能让大家都感到轻松些。他们并不认为赠品能撼动妈妈们全母乳喂养的决心。
“Babies grow fine on it,” said Mardi Mountford, executive vice president of the International Formula Council, who breast-fed her baby exclusively. “And moms tell us they like getting the samples.”
“宝宝喝奶粉长得也挺好，而且妈妈们告诉我们，她们喜欢得到赠品，”玛尔蒂·蒙特福德(Mardi Mountford)表示。她是国际配方奶协会(International Formula Council)的执行副总裁，她自己在养育孩子时，选择的则是全母乳喂养。
Ann Roberts, 32, a book buyer in Atlanta, said she had wanted to breast-feed exclusively, but found it painful and her daughter was underweight. The sample “gave me peace of mind,” she said. “It would have added stress to have to send my husband to the grocery store to buy formula.” She continued supplementing with formula, and like many women who formula-feed, bought the brand the hospital gave out. “We are using that brand because we got the sample,” she said.
32岁的安·罗伯茨(Ann Roberts)是个图书采购员，家住亚特兰大，她说自己本想要全母乳喂养，但发现这样做很辛苦，而且她女儿的体重开始往下掉。她说，奶粉赠品“让我平静。假如非得勒令我丈夫去食杂店买配方奶，这让会我感到火上加油的。”她在母乳不足的时候会添上配方奶，而且跟许多给宝宝喝配方奶的妈妈们一样，挑的就是医院赠送的那个牌子。“我们得到了这个牌子的赠品，所以一直买它，”她说。
Do samples sway women to use formula in the first place? Some studies have found that women who receive samples do not breast-feed as long as those who don’t; others found no significant connection. People on either side of the sample issue agree that hospitals should support breast-feeding in many ways.
奶粉赠品是否让新妈妈从一开始就投奔配方奶阵营？一些研究发现，那些得到赠品的妇女，母乳喂养时间比没有得到赠品的妇女要少；还有些研究则发现两者间并无显著联系。在赠品这个问题上，无论持正反哪方的观点，人们都认为医院应从许多方面来支持母乳喂养。
The campaign to ban samples stirs strong feelings among mothers, including those who are health care providers.
禁止奶粉赠品运动激起了许多妈妈的强烈情绪，其中包括不少医疗服务人员。
Megan Caron, 27, a nurse in Massachusetts, felt a sample coaxed her to capitulate when breast-feeding her daughter became challenging. “If it wasn’t there, I think I would have tried a little bit more to get breast-feeding down,” she said. “And once they get formula, it’s hard to get them back.”
27岁的梅根·卡伦(Megan Caron)是马萨诸塞州的一名护士，她觉得在母乳喂养女儿变得困难重重时，正是赠品哄骗她屈服于压力。“假如没有那袋赠品，我想我还会再坚持喂母乳。可一旦宝宝喝上了配方奶，就很难再把他们拉回来了。”
Dr. Rachel Freedman, 34, an oncologist, had a different experience after giving birth this year at her hospital, Brigham and Women’s in Boston. It long ago banned formula samples. But Dr. Freedman, who said she intended to breast-feed but had difficulty, concluded that samples could be “nice when you’re a mother and you get into a pinch in the middle of the night and you’re exhausted.” When her milk did not come in, nurses encouraged her not to give up. But after hours of trying, “we broke down” and gave formula, she said. Her milk came in two weeks later, but not enough to nurse exclusively. “Maybe I wasn’t patient enough, but at the time I thought he was starving,” Dr. Freedman said of her son.
34岁的瑞秋·弗里德曼(Rachel Freedman)医生是名肿瘤学家，今年在波士顿的布莱根妇女医院(Brigham and Women’s)分娩后，她碰到的情况跟卡伦有所不同。这所医院很久前就对配方奶赠品下了禁令。弗里德曼医生说，她一心想要母乳喂养，但发现很难做到，她认为“当你是个新妈妈，午夜时分精疲力竭，束手无策时，奶粉赠品是个好东西。”她说，在她没有下奶时，护士鼓励她不要放弃，但努力了好几个钟头，“我们崩溃了”，还是喂了奶粉。她的奶水是到两周后才开始下来的，但不足以进行全母乳喂养。“也许是我不够耐心，但当时我觉得把儿子饿坏了，”弗里德曼说。
Dr. Nicole Leopardi, 30, a pediatrician, said the sample she got after giving birth at Virtua Hospital in Voorhees, N.J., in 2006, helped influence her to supplement with formula when she became worried she wasn’t producing enough milk. “Since it was available, I think I probably kept doing it those early days,” she said. “I was under the misconception that that would help the baby be more satisfied.” This year, Dr. Leopardi gave birth at Cooper University Hospital in Camden, where she is affiliated. Cooper recently banned formula samples, and she said its unequivocal breast-feeding support helped her keep nursing.
30岁的儿科大夫妮可·莱奥帕迪(Nicole Leopardi)说，2006年，当她在新泽西沃里斯的沃图阿医院(Virtua Hospital)分娩时，医院提供的奶粉赠品促使她在怀疑奶水不够时，给宝宝添加了配方奶。“因为奶粉就在手边，在刚开始的时候我一直在给宝宝添奶粉，我当时错误的认为，这会让宝宝更加满足。”今年，莱奥帕迪在她工作的卡姆登库珀大学医院(Cooper University Hospital)又生了个宝宝，库珀医院新近禁止提供配方奶赠品，她说，正是医院态度鲜明地支持母乳喂养，鼓励她坚持了下去。
At Cooper, where 70 percent of mothers were formula-feeding, the ban improved breast-feeding rates significantly. In a study, Dr. Lori Winter, a pediatrics professor at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, introduced hospital bags without formula logos or samples. At first, she was stunned to find that mothers were receiving formula samples anyway. Nurses were slipping them in, she said, because “they didn’t believe these babies weren’t going to starve. Cooper began storing formula in locked cabinets and having nurses document when mothers had medical needs or requested it. Now, 70 percent breast-feed in the hospital.
在库珀医院，之前有70%的妈妈是使用人工喂养，配方奶禁令显著地提升了母乳喂养的比例。新泽西医科和牙科大学(University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey)的儿科教授洛里·文特尔(Lori Winter)在一项研究中，向新妈妈们介绍了没有印奶粉厂商标志、也没有装配方奶赠品的医院礼品袋。一开始，她吃惊地发现妈妈们对配方奶赠品持来者不拒的态度。她说，护士们会挨个把赠品递给她们，因为“她们相信如果不喝奶粉，宝宝们就会挨饿。”库珀医院于是将配方奶锁进柜子里，只有在妈妈们填写了相关医学需求的文件，或主动要求时，护士们才会发放奶粉，并记录在案。现在，该医院有70%的妈妈进行母乳喂养。
Other hospitals say they do not believe samples discourage breast-feeding. At Virtua, which runs two maternity hospitals in suburban New Jersey, Dr. Alka Kohli, vice president of medical affairs, said officials would re-evaluate formula giveaways. But she said that because of Virtua’s breast-feeding programs, “despite the fact that formula sits around, our breast-feeding rates climb every year.”
也有些医院认为赠品不会影响妈妈母乳喂养的决心。沃图阿医院在新泽西郊区开有两家产科诊所，医院负责医疗事务的副院长阿尔卡·科利(Alka Kohli)医生说，医院管理层将会重新研讨配方奶发放情况，但她说，沃尔图医院有健全的母乳喂养项目，“尽管这里确实有配方奶，但我们的母乳喂养比例还是在逐年攀升。”
“Ban the Bags” campaigns have seeped into politics. Mayor Bloomberg’s critics call “Latch On NYC” another nanny-state initiative. Breast-feeding advocates are criticizing Mitt Romney’s 2006 decisions as Massachusetts governor to pressure the state’s Public Health Council to reverse a ban on formula giveaways, and replace three council members who objected.
“禁发奶粉袋”运动也渗透到政治层面。纽约市长布隆伯格的批评者称“母乳在纽约”是又一项“保姆州”的动议。母乳倡导人士则在批评米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)2006年任职马萨诸塞州州长时做出的一项举动，当时他向该州公共卫生委员会(Public Health Council)施压，令其放弃了禁止发放配方奶赠品的决意，并更换了三名跟他唱反调的委员会成员。
When UMass Memorial Medical Center in Worcester eliminated samples in 2005, people complained, said Dr. Ellen Delpapa, chief of maternal-fetal medicine. UMass partly retrenched, giving coupons for free formula to women not exclusively breast-feeding. Only when more Massachusetts hospitals stopped samples did UMass reimpose its ban.
2005年，位于伍斯特的麻省大学纪念医疗中心(UMass Memorial Medical Center)曾一度抵制奶粉赠品，结果据该院母胎医学科主任埃伦·德尔帕帕(Ellen Delpapa)医生说，此举遭到不少投诉。医院只好采取折衷的办法，为那些没有全母乳喂养的女性提供配方奶的免费赠品券。直到更多马萨诸塞州的医院停止发放赠品后，该院才重新彻底恢复了禁令。
Some hospitals say manufacturers make banning giveaways harder. Dr. Winter called it “a big production to disengage companies from flooding us with these bags,” adding, “I was reported to the chief of neonatology because the companies said I refused to meet with them.”
一些医院说，奶粉厂商从中阻拦，让他们很难推行禁令。文特尔医生说，“让这些公司不再继续用这些礼品袋向我们狂轰滥炸，得费很大的功夫，”随后她补充说，“这些公司说我拒不跟他们见面，把我告到了新生儿科主任那里。”
At Beverly Hospital, the last Massachusetts hospital to ban samples, companies “were very infiltrated,” said Rebecca Gadon, director of maternal, newborn and cancer care. She arrived in 2008 to find formula companies giving the staff gifts and paying for continuing education classes.
比弗利医院(Beverly Hospital)是马萨诸塞州最后一个禁止奶粉赠品的医院，这家医院产科、新生儿暨癌症护理部的主管瑞贝卡·加登(Rebecca Gadon)说，奶粉厂商“无孔不入”。2008年她在深入调查中发现，这些公司会给她们的员工送礼，甚至支付学费让医护人员参加继续教育课程。
Hospitals often also receive all formula supplies free from manufacturers, providing incentives to cooperate. Many hospitals continue to accept supplies after banning samples, although the C.D.C. and other agencies discourage this. UMass Memorial still accepts Similac and Enfamil, and while it is considering buying formula, “when they tell us how much we’re getting for free, that’s worth a lot,” Dr. Delpapa said.
医院往往能从厂商那里免费得到各种配方奶，如果愿意进一步合作，还会有更多好处可以拿。很多医院不顾美国疾控中心和其他机构的反对，在奶粉禁令后仍旧在接受免费奶粉。麻省大学纪念医疗中心仍在接受雅培(Similac)和美赞臣奶粉，尽管医院也在考虑自行购买配方奶，“奶粉公司告诉我们，他们免费给了我们多少奶粉，算算真还值不少钱，”德尔帕帕医生说。
The chief of the C.D.C.’s nutrition branch, Laurence Grummer-Strawn, said he was concerned enough that he had “spoken to people at formula companies suggesting they change their marketing practices.”
美国疾控中心营养部门主管劳伦斯·格鲁默-斯特劳恩(Laurence Grummer-Strawn)说，他对此情形非常关注，他甚至“曾跟奶粉公司的人打过招呼，想让他们改改行销手法。”
He also tells hospitals to buy formula, with competitive bidding like for other supplies. “We shouldn’t be receiving free giveaways from pharmaceutical companies, we shouldn’t be receiving free giveaways from formula companies,” Dr. Grummer-Strawn said.
他也曾要求医院购买配方奶，在这个过程中要像购买其他医疗器材那样引入竞价机制，他说：“我们不应从制药公司那里得到免费赠品，我们也不应从奶粉公司那里得到免费赠品。”
Neither the Formula Council nor Mead Johnson would discuss marketing specifically. Abbott Nutrition, which makes Similac, deferred questions to the Formula Council. Mr. Perille of Mead Johnson said factors like birthrate and efficiency were more important to business success than sending samples to hospitals or pediatricians’ offices.
配方奶协会和美赞臣公司都不愿具体谈及行销策略。生产雅培奶粉的雅培营养(Abbott Nutrition)将这个问题推给配方奶协会。美赞臣公司的佩里尔说，像出生率和效率这类因素，比起送赠品给医院或儿科诊所，对其取得商业成功的作用更重大。
Still, hospitals are “the ideal setting for new mothers to get information about feeding options,” Mr. Perille said. And “if they’re going to formula-feed, we would like them to choose our brand.”
但佩里尔说，医院“是新妈妈获得关于喂养方案信息的最理想的环境。”此外，“如果她们准备用奶粉喂养小宝宝，我们将很高兴她们能选择我们这个牌子的产品。”