WASHINGTON — A military airstrike in northwest Syria has killed the leader of a shadowy Qaeda cell that American officials say has been plotting attacks against the United States and Europe, the Pentagon announced on Sunday.
华盛顿——五角大楼周日宣布，军方在叙利亚西北部开展空袭，打死了一个隐蔽的基地组织小组头目。美国官员说，此人已经在策划针对美国和欧洲的袭击。
The leader, Sanafi al-Nasr, a Saudi national, was the highest-ranking leader of a network of some two dozen veteran Qaeda operatives called the Khorasan Group and the fifth senior member of the group to be killed in the past four months. His death was announced in a Pentagon statement describing Thursday’s operation, which American officials said was a drone strike.
该头目沙那非·纳斯尔(Sanafi al-Nasr)是沙特公民，在由20多名基地组织老兵组成的呼罗珊组织(Khorasan Group)中，他是级别最高的头目，也是过去四个月中该组织被打死的第五名高级成员。五角大楼的声明称他在上周四的行动中身亡，美国官员说那是一次无人机袭击。
Mr. Nasr, whose full name was Abdul Mohsen Adballah Ibrahim al Charekh, was a longtime militant experienced in funneling money and fighters for Al Qaeda, said Peter Cook, the Pentagon press secretary.
五角大楼新闻秘书彼得·库克(Peter Cook)说，纳斯尔全名阿卜杜勒·穆赫辛·阿巴拉哈·易卜拉欣·卡里克( Abdul Mohsen Adballah Ibrahim al Charekh)，是一名资历很深的武装分子，在为基地组织输送资金和人手方面经验丰富。
Mr. Cook said Mr. Nasr had organized and maintained routes for new recruits to travel from Pakistan to Syria through Turkey, in addition to helping Al Qaeda’s external operations in the West. Mr. Nasr previously worked for Al Qaeda’s Iran-based facilitation network and, in 2012 he took charge of the group’s core finances before relocating to Syria in 2013.
库克说，纳斯尔除了帮助基地组织在西方开展行动之外，还开辟和维护了新人从巴基斯坦经土耳其前往叙利亚的通道。纳斯尔曾为基地组织在伊朗的机构工作，2012年开始负责该组织的核心经费事务，在2013年迁往叙利亚。
In imposing terrorism sanctions on Mr. Nasr last year, the Treasury Department said he had raised money and facilitated travel to Syria for the Nusra Front, Al Qaeda’s branch in Syria.
财政部去年对纳斯尔实施恐怖主义制裁时，称他为基地组织在叙利亚的分支努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)筹集资金，并协助武装分子前往那里。
“Al-Nasr is important as a financier for Al Qaeda with key connections in the gulf states,” said Bruce O. Riedel, a former C.I.A. analyst who is now at the Brookings Institution.
“纳斯尔为基地组织充当融资人，是个关键角色，他在海湾国家有重要的资金链条，”曾任中情局官员的布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)高级研究员布鲁斯·O·里德尔(Bruce O. Riedel)说。
Last week’s strike was another significant blow to the Khorasan network, American terrorism officials said. In early July, the group’s founding leader, Muhsin al-Fadhli, was killed while traveling in a vehicle near Sarmada, in northwestern Syria. Mr. Fadhli was a senior Qaeda operative who, according to the State Department, was so close to Osama bin Laden that he was among a small group of people who knew about the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks before they were launched.
美国反恐官员说，上周的袭击是对呼罗珊组织的又一次重大打击。今年7月初，该组织的创立者穆赫辛·法德赫里(Muhsin al-Fadhli)在搭车行经叙利亚西北部的萨玛达城时遇袭身亡。美国国务院的资料显示，法德赫里是基地组织的高级成员，与奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)极为亲近，在2001年9月11日袭击发生之前，只有为数不多的人知道这个行动，法德赫里就是其中之一。
Also in July, David Drugeon, a French citizen and an explosives expert for Khorasan, was killed in an allied airstrike near Aleppo, Syria.
同样在7月，法国公民、呼罗珊组织的爆炸专家戴维·德吕容(David Drugeon)在叙利亚阿勒颇附近遭遇盟军空袭身亡。
Even as the United States has shifted its main counterterrorism focus to the Islamic State from Al Qaeda, intelligence officials say the Khorasan Group has emerged as the cell in Syria that may be the most intent on, and capable of, striking the United States or its Western allies with an organized terrorist attack.
就在美国将主要反恐重心从基地组织转移到伊斯兰国的时候，情报官员表示，呼罗珊组织在叙利亚崛起，成为可能最想也最有能力通过有组织恐怖活动打击美国或其西方盟友的组织。
There is little public information about the Khorasan Group, which American officials say is made up of about two dozen seasoned Qaeda operatives from the Middle East, South Asia and North Africa who were sent to Syria by Ayman al-Zawahri, Al Qaeda’s leader in Pakistan. Embedded within the Nusra Front, Al Qaeda’s affiliate in Syria, the Khorasan operatives were to recruit Europeans and Americans whose passports allow them to travel on American-bound jetliners with less scrutiny from security officials.
几乎没有关于呼罗珊组织的公开信息，美国官员表示该组织由20多名来自中东、南亚及北非的经验丰富的基地组织成员组成，藏身于巴基斯坦的基地组织头目艾曼·扎瓦希里(Ayman al-Zawahri)派这些成员前往叙利亚。这些进入努斯拉阵线的呼罗珊成员将招募欧洲人及美国人，在乘坐飞往美国的飞机时，他们的护照可以减少安全官员对他们的检查。