WASHINGTON — The Justice Department on Wednesday called on Ferguson, Mo., to overhaul its criminal justice system, declaring that the city had engaged in so many constitutional violations that they could be corrected only through better training, new policies and outside oversight.
华盛顿——周三，联邦司法部要求密苏里州弗格森市全面改革刑事司法体系，宣称该市存在很多侵犯居民宪法权利的行为，只有通过更好的训练、新政策及外部监督才能予以纠正。
The recommendations were contained in a scathing department report that described a city where police officers singled out blacks for petty crimes, even while fixing tickets for their friends. City officials sent racist jokes from their government email addresses while at work without fear of being punished because their colleagues forwarded them to others. Complaints of police abuses, overwhelmingly against African-Americans, were rarely investigated or punished.
上述建议出自司法部的一份措辞严厉的报告。文中指出，弗格森的警员会在轻微罪行上针对黑人，哪怕是在为友人走后门销掉罚款单的时候。该市多名官员在工作时间通过政府邮箱发送带有种族歧视的笑话，而且并不担心会因为同事将邮件转发给其他人而受到惩罚。有关警察滥用职权——绝大部分针对非裔人口——的投诉很少受到调查或导致惩罚。
The findings will force Ferguson, a working-class city that is about two-thirds black, to either make changes or face a civil rights lawsuit. Justice Department officials said it appeared that city officials were open to making changes that would head off a court battle.
这些调查结果将迫使弗格森做出选择，要么改变，要么面临民权诉讼。在这座工薪阶层为主的城市，黑人占总人口的三分之二左右。司法部官员表示，该市官员似乎愿意做出改变，避免打官司。
“The findings in Ferguson are very serious, and the list of needed changes is long,” Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said in a statement Wednesday.
司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)周三发表声明称，“有关弗格森的调查结果非常严肃，需要改变的方面有很多。”
It is rare for the Justice Department to bring the weight of the federal government down on a small city. Normally it targets large police forces. But last summer’s fatal shooting of an unarmed black teenager, Michael Brown, by a white police officer prompted a broader investigation, and federal authorities were shocked by what they uncovered.
司法部对小地方施加联邦政府影响力的情况颇为罕见。它通常将目标对准大的警察部门。不过，去年夏天弗格森的一名白人警员击毙了手无寸铁的黑人少年迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)。该事件引发了这项广泛的调查，而其结果让联邦当局颇为震惊。
For example, the report described how one police officer pulled up behind a 32-year-old black man who was cooling off in his car after a basketball game. Without cause, the officer demanded the man’s identification, ordered him out of his car, patted him down and asked to search the car. “The man objected, citing his constitutional rights,” the Justice Department wrote. “In response, the officer arrested the man, reportedly at gunpoint, charging him with eight violations of Ferguson’s municipal code.”
例如，报告中描述了一名警员要求一名32岁的黑人男子靠边停车的过程。这名男子打完篮球后在车里乘凉，而警员无缘无故地要求他出示身份证件、命令他下车、进行搜身检查，并要求搜车。“此人拒绝配合，称自己拥有宪法权利，”司法部写道。“结果，警员逮捕了这名男子，据称用枪指着他，指控他违反了弗格森城市条例中的八项规定。”
The report found that Ferguson, a city of about 21,000, had abandoned any attempt at establishing relations with the community in favor of a strategy of making money through law enforcement. Fines are a major revenue source for the city, and the local courts were used to extract money. “Everything’s about the courts,” one Ferguson officer told federal investigators. “The court’s enforcement priorities are money.”
报告得出结论，人口约为2.1万的弗格森已经放弃进行任何努力来与社区建立关系，反而是青睐通过执法来赚钱的策略。罚款是这座城市的主要财政收入来源，而地方法院被用于榨取钱财。 “一切都与法院有关，”弗格森的一名警员告诉联邦调查人员。“法院执法的优先目标是钱。”
The Justice Department called for an entirely new approach, one built upon community policing. That will require new work schedules and a focus on crime prevention and community outreach. Federal authorities said that Ferguson must change the way it stops, searches and arrests people. Over the past two years, blacks accounted for 85 percent of all traffic stops, 90 percent of tickets and 93 percent of arrests. In cases like jaywalking, which often hinge on police discretion, blacks accounted for 95 percent of all arrests.
司法部呼吁弗格森采取全新的策略，将其建立在社区警务制度的基础上。这将需要警方制定新的工作日程，把重点放到预防犯罪和接触社区方面。联邦部门称，弗格森必须改变截停、搜查和拘捕的方式。过去两年，黑人在遭到交通截停的人当中占85%，在吃罚单的人中占90%，在被捕的人中当中占93%。在因为乱穿马路等往往取决于警察判断的行为而被捕的人当中，黑人占95%。
The Justice Department also called for closer scrutiny when the police use force, for better training of officers and for closer supervision.
司法部还呼吁，更严格地审查警察使用武力的情况、对警员进行更好的训练，以及实施更严格的监督。
One Ferguson resident who has organized protests, Alexis Templeton, said the Justice Department’s report confirmed her belief that the city needed to clean house. “I think a lot of people need to lose their jobs,” she said. “When you have people sending certain emails and saying certain things, and then they go out and police the community, which happens to be predominantly black, those stereotypes play into the work.”
曾组织抗议活动的弗格森居民亚历克西斯·坦普尔顿(Alexis Templeton)表示，司法部的报告证实了她的观点，即市政当局需要清理门户。 “我认为很多人都应该丢掉他们的工作，”她说。 “当有人发送某一类的电子邮件，表达一些看法的时候，接下来他们又出去执行社区的警务工作，而这个社区恰好以黑人为主，这些刻板印象便开始起作用了。”