Elizabeth Barrow celebrated her 100th birthday at a backyard gathering with her son and three grandchildren in the coastal Massachusetts town where she raised her family and cooked lunches in a school cafeteria.
伊丽莎白·巴洛(Elizabeth Barrow)在她家位于马萨诸塞州一个海滨城市的后院，召集来了儿子和三个孙辈，庆祝自己的100岁生日。她在这座城市里把孩子拉扯大，还曾在一所学校的食堂里做午饭。
A month later, in September 2009, Mrs. Barrow was found dead at a local nursing home, strangled and suffocated, with a plastic shopping bag over her head. The killer, the police said, was her 97-year-old roommate.
一个月后，2009年9月，伊丽莎白·巴洛被发现死在了当地的一家养老院，她是被勒住窒息而死的，死时头上还套着一个塑料购物袋。警方表示，行凶者是她97岁的室友。
Workers at the nursing home, Brandon Woods in South Dartmouth, Mass., had months earlier described the roommate in patient files as being “at risk to harm herself or others.”
几个月前，马萨诸塞州南达特茅斯布兰顿森林养老院(Brandon Woods)的工作人员曾在那名室友的病例中形容，她“有伤害自己或他人的风险”。
After a police inquiry, the roommate — despite her age and dementia — was charged with murder. The authorities did not focus on the nursing home, though. Brandon Woods claims that, except for some minor arguments, the two women got along nicely. When the roommate was deemed unfit to stand trial and committed to a state hospital, the sensational case that shocked this corner of New England essentially disappeared.
在警方进行了调查之后，这名室友被控谋杀——尽管她年迈且已失智。不过官方并没有把调查的注意力放在养老院上。布兰顿森林养老院宣称，除了一些小争执之外，这两名老妪相处得很好。等到该名室友被判定不适合出庭，并被送进一所州立医院后，这宗在新英格兰一隅引起轰动的案件就基本上销声匿迹了。
More than six years after the killing, Mrs. Barrow’s only son, Scott, is still trying to hold the nursing home accountable. “The woman had a history of problems,” Mr. Barrow said of the roommate in an interview this month. “She should not have been living in that room with my mother.”
杀人案发生超过六年之后，伊丽莎白仅有的儿子斯科特·巴洛(Scott)仍在尝试将养老院送上法庭。“那个女人出过很多问题，”巴洛先生在本月接受采访时这样形容那名室友。“她就不应该和我母亲一起住在那间屋里。”
Mr. Barrow was barred from taking Brandon Woods to court in 2010 because his mother’s contract with the nursing home contained a clause that forced any dispute, even one over wrongful death, into private arbitration.
2010年，巴洛先生未能在法院起诉布兰顿森林养老院，因为他母亲与养老院的合同中包含一则条款，规定任何纠纷都要通过私人仲裁解决，哪怕是过失致人死亡。
He has been trying ever since to get back to court, and next month he will finally get that chance. A Massachusetts state court is scheduled to hear Mr. Barrow’s case against the home, which has evolved into much more than a lawsuit about one woman’s death. It has become a crucial test of a legal strategy to prevent nursing homes across the country from requiring their residents to go to arbitration, where there is no judge or jury and the proceedings are hidden from public scrutiny.
从那时以来，他就一直在尝试再回到法庭，下个月他将终于赢得这个机会。马萨诸塞州的一家州法院计划开庭审理斯科特·巴洛起诉养老院的案件，这个案件的影响已经远远超出了一个女人的死。美国各地的养老院都要求住户进行仲裁，而仲裁程序没有法官也没有陪审团，且其审理程序不公开，不受公众监督。一项旨在推翻这种做法的法律策略，在巴洛案中面临着关键的挑战。
Arbitration clauses have proliferated over the last 10 years as companies have added them to tens of millions of contracts for things as diverse as cellphone service, credit cards and student loans. Nursing homes in particular have embraced the clauses, which are often buried in complex contracts that are difficult to navigate, especially for elderly people with dwindling mental acuity or their relatives, who can be emotionally vulnerable when admitting a parent to a home.
过去十年间，企业界在其数千万份合同中增加了要求仲裁的条款，这些合同涉及的事项林林总总，包括手机服务、信用卡、学生贷款等。养老院尤其热衷这种条款。而且这些条款常常埋藏在复杂合同里，难以阅读，对于智力日益衰退的老人，以及他们的亲属，都是如此。这些亲属在送父母到养老院时，通常情绪脆弱。
State regulators are concerned because the secretive nature of arbitration can obscure patterns of wrongdoing from prospective residents and their families. Recently, officials in 16 states and the District of Columbia urged the federal government to deny Medicaid and Medicare money to nursing homes that use the clauses. Between 2010 and 2014, hundreds of cases of elder abuse, neglect and wrongful death ended up in arbitration, according to an examination by The New York Times of 25,000 arbitration records and interviews with arbitrators, judges and plaintiffs.
州监管机构感到担忧，因为仲裁程序的保密性可能会掩盖不端行为，使潜在的客户及其家人难以觉察。最近，16个州及哥伦比亚特区的官员敦促联邦政府，禁止将联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)和联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的资金投入使用这些条款的养老院。《纽约时报》查阅了2.5万份仲裁记录，并采访仲裁员、法官、原告人之后发现，在2010年至2014年之间，有数百宗虐待老人、疏于照管、过失致人死亡的案件以仲裁告终。
Judges have consistently upheld the clauses, The Times found, regardless of whether the people signing them understood what they were forfeiting. It is the most basic principle of contract law: Once a contract is signed, judges have ruled, it is legally binding.
时报发现，法官一贯支持这些条款，不管签署人是否明白他们放弃了怎样的权利。这是合同法里最基本的原则：法官认定，一旦合同签署完毕，它就有了法律效力。
Mr. Barrow’s case is pivotal because, with the help of his lawyers, he has overcome an arbitration clause by using the fundamentals of contract law to fight back.
巴洛案是一个转折点，因为在律师的帮助下，巴洛用合同法的基本原则予以反击，进而攻克了仲裁条款。
As is often the case when elderly people are admitted to nursing homes, Mr. Barrow signed the admissions paperwork containing the arbitration clause on his mother’s behalf.
就像很多老人在入住养老院时的情形一样，巴洛替母亲签署了包含仲裁条款的入住文件。
Although his mother had designated Mr. Barrow as her health care proxy — someone who was authorized to make decisions about her medical treatment — his lawyers argued that he did not have the authority to bind his mother to arbitration. In 2014, a judge ruled in his favor.
尽管母亲将巴洛指定成了医疗事务代理人，即授权巴洛替她做出医疗方面的决定，但他的律师认为，他并没有权力约束母亲只可以接受仲裁。2014年，法院作出了有利于他的判决。
It is a straightforward argument that is catching on. Appeals courts across the country have been throwing out arbitration agreements signed by family members of nursing home residents.
这种论证简单明了，受到了广泛的效仿。全美各地的上诉法院否决了大量由养老院居住者的家人签署的仲裁协议。
For years, judges hearing elder-abuse cases rejected arguments that arbitration clauses in nursing home contracts were patently unfair because they were signed by people who did not understand them or perhaps even realize they existed.
多年来，一直有当事人主张，养老院合同里的仲裁条款显失公平，因为签署人并不理解，甚至可能没有意识到这种条款的存在。但审理虐待老年人案件的法官们都驳回了这种论述。
In a circuit court case involving a man in a Mississippi nursing home who could not read, write or sign his name, the judges held that under state law, “illiteracy alone is not a sufficient basis for the invalidation of an arbitration agreement.”
一家巡回法院审理一宗涉及密西西比州某家养老院里一名不识字、不会写字、不会签自己名字的男子的案件时，法官认定，依据州法律“单单是不识字，不足以成为取消仲裁协议的依据”。
“Any normal human being would say that these contracts don’t pass the smell test. But the courts don’t accept this,” said Martin S. Kardon, a plaintiff’s lawyer in Philadelphia with a focus on nursing home cases.
“任何一个正常人都会觉得这些合同有问题，但法庭不接受这一点，”费城的辩护律师马丁·S·卡顿(Martin S. Kardon)表示。卡顿一直关注养老院案件。
A few years ago, Mr. Kardon and a small network of lawyers across the country tried a different tack. They began making hyper-technical arguments about the validity of nursing home contracts.
几年前，卡顿和全国各地的一小群律师开始采用一条不同的路线。他们开始对养老院合同的法律效力作出高度技术化的反驳。
They argued that unless family members had power of attorney, they lacked the authority to agree to arbitration.
他们辩称，除非家属有法律授权书，否则就没有同意仲裁的权限。
“We had to start speaking the language of judges,” Mr. Kardon said.
“我们必须开始用法官的语言讲话，”卡顿说。
When Mr. Barrow, now 67, brought his parents to the nursing home in 2006, signing the paperwork seemed like little more than a formality, the final step of an already tough process.
现年67岁的斯科特·巴洛在2006年将父母送到养老院时，签署文件仿佛只是例行公事，是一段已然艰难的历程中的最后一步。
At first, his parents — sweethearts since they met working at a textile mill — shared the same room at the home, a tidy brick building with a decorative pond outside. After his father died the next year, his mother had a string of roommates. Known for walking the halls, asking other residents if they needed hugs, Mrs. Barrow made friends easily. And the light in her south-facing room was perfect for cultivating her beloved African violets.
他的父母在一家纺织厂共事时相恋，之后一直相恋相守。起初他们二人在养老院里住在同一个房间里，养老院是一座整洁的砖楼，外面有一座装饰性水塘。他的父亲第二年去世后，母亲有过一系列室友。由于喜欢在大堂里闲逛，询问其他老人要不要个拥抱，伊丽莎白·巴洛很容易就交到了朋友。而且她朝南的房间对于培育她钟爱的非洲紫罗兰十分完美。
Things changed in 2008 when she got a new roommate, Laura Lundquist, who was moved because of an argument with her previous roommate, Mr. Barrow’s lawyers said in a court filing.
但在2008年，她有了一个新室友之后，一切都变了。新室友劳拉·伦德奎斯特(Laura Lundquist)之所以搬进来是因为她与上一个室友发生了争执，巴洛先生的律师在法庭文件中说。
The change of scenery did not seem to help Ms. Lundquist, who had been diagnosed with dementia, delusions, anxiety disorder, depression and paranoia.
环境的改变并没有给伦德奎斯特带来多大帮助。她被诊断患有失智、幻觉、焦虑症、抑郁症和妄想症。
Ms. Lundquist did not like to eat in the dining hall, so Mrs. Barrow would take her own meals in their room to keep her company, Mr. Barrow said.
伦德奎斯特不喜欢在餐厅里吃饭，于是巴洛女士会把自己的饭带到屋里陪她，斯科特·巴洛说。
In court papers, lawyers for Brandon Woods cited those meals as evidence that the two women “generally carried on a caring friendship.”
法庭文件显示，布兰顿森林养老院的律师认为，这些进餐经历显示两名老妪“大体上存在相互关怀的友谊”。
On Aug. 21, Mrs. Barrow turned 100. Her son and three grandchildren took her on a shopping trip to Walmart. They ate cake with green frosting, and she declared it her goal to live to 104.
那年8月21日，巴洛女士过100岁生日。她的儿子和三名孙辈带她去沃尔玛购物。他们吃了涂覆成绿色的蛋糕，她宣布自己的目标是活到104岁。
A month later, back at the nursing home, a simple disagreement between the roommates escalated.
一个月后，在养老院里，室友之间一场简单的分歧加剧了。
It began when Mrs. Barrow asked a nursing assistant to move a table from the foot of Ms. Lundquist’s bed so that she could get to the bathroom. At that request, Ms. Lundquist got out of bed, screamed, “was verbally abusive and hit” the nursing assistant, records show. It took two staff members to calm Ms. Lundquist.
巴洛女士要求一位护工把伦德奎斯特床脚的一张桌子挪开，好让她能去洗手间。记录显示，听到这个要求后，伦德奎斯特下床高呼了“一些很伤人的话，还打了”护工。两个职员一起下手才让伦德奎斯特镇静下来。
Officials at Brandon Woods and lawyers for the nursing home did not respond to requests for comment.
布兰登森林养老院的管理人员和律师没有回应记者的置评请求。
In the court papers, lawyers for the nursing home said Mrs. Barrow had assured the nurse that she felt safe in the room “and that Ms. Lundquist would cool off.”
在法庭文件中，养老院的律师表示巴洛女士曾向护士确认，她在房间里感到安全，“伦德奎斯特会冷静下来”。
At 6:20 the next morning, a staff member found Mrs. Barrow in bed with a plastic bag on her head and the covers pulled up. The table was back at the foot of Ms. Lundquist’s bed.
第二天早上6点20分，一名职员发现巴洛女士死在床上，头上套着塑料袋，被子盖在身上。