In June 2011, Ogmundur Jonasson, Iceland’s minister of the interior at the time, received an urgent message from the authorities in the United States. It said that “there was an imminent attack on Icelandic government databases” by hackers, and that the F.B.I. would send agents to investigate, Mr. Jonasson said in a telephone interview.
2011年6月，时任冰岛内政部长的奥格蒙迪尔·约纳松(Ogmundur Jonasson)收到美国有关部门发来的一条紧急消息。约纳松在电话采访中说，美方称“冰岛政府的数据库即将遭到黑客攻击”，美国联邦调查局(FBI)将派遣特工前去调查。
But when “eight or nine” F.B.I. agents arrived in August, Mr. Jonasson said, he found that they were not investigating an imminent attack, but gathering material on WikiLeaks, the activist group which has been responsible for publishing millions of confidential documents over the past three years, and which has many operatives in Iceland.
约纳松说，但是当“八、九名”FBI特工在当年8月抵达后，他发现这些人并不是在调查迫在眉睫的袭击，而是在搜集关于维基解密(WikiLeaks)的材料。这个活动组织在过去三年里发布了数百万份机密文件，而且在冰岛有很多工作人员。
Mr. Jonasson asked the agents to leave, he said, because they had misrepresented the purpose of their visit.
约纳松要求这些特工离开，因为这些人没有如实通报来意。
The operation in Iceland was part of a wide-ranging investigation into WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange, for their roles in the release of American military and diplomatic documents in 2009 and 2010. The investigation has been quietly gathering material since at least October 2010, six months after the arrest of Pfc. Bradley Manning, the army enlistee who is accused of providing the bulk of the leaks.
冰岛的行动是针对维基解密及其创始人朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)的广泛调查的一部分，这两者都与2009年和2010年美国军事和外交文件泄露有关。至少从2010年10月开始，即一等兵布拉德利·曼宁(Bradley Manning)被捕六个月后，调查人员就一直在悄悄搜集材料。曼宁被指提供了大部分泄密材料。
Until he re-emerged this week as an ally for Edward J. Snowden, the former computer contractor who leaked details of National Security Agency surveillance, Mr. Assange looked like a forgotten man. WikiLeaks had not had a major release of information in several years, its funds had dwindled and several senior architects of its systems left, citing internal disputes. Mr. Assange himself is holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, where he fled to avoid extradition to Sweden for questioning on allegations of sexual abuse.
在本周重新露面、充当泄露国家安全局(National Security Agency)监视行动详细讯息的前电脑合同工爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)的盟友之前，阿桑奇似乎已被人遗忘。维基解密已经好几年没有作出重大爆料，其资金逐渐枯竭，几位高级系统工程师也因为内部矛盾而离开。阿桑奇自己则藏身厄瓜多尔驻伦敦大使馆，以逃避被引渡到瑞典就性侵指控接受讯问。
But the United States government had not forgotten about him. Interviews with government agents, prosecutors and others familiar with the WikiLeaks investigation as well as an examination of court documents, suggest that Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks are being investigated by at least four government agencies, along with a grand jury that has subpoenaed witnesses.
然而，美国政府并没有忘记他。采访熟悉维基解密调查的政府工作人员、检察官和其他人士，并研究法庭文件，都似乎表明至少有四个政府机构，外加一个曾传唤证人的大陪审团，在对阿桑奇和维基解密进行调查。
Tens of thousands of pages of evidence have been gathered. And at least four other former members of WikiLeaks have had contact with United States authorities seeking information on Mr. Assange, the former members said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss a matter they were informed was confidential.
收集的证据已达到数万页。至少有四名维基解密的前成员曾与搜集阿桑奇信息的美国官员有过接触，因为被告知此事涉密，这些前成员要求匿名谈论此事。
A Justice Department spokesman confirmed that it “has an investigation into matters involving WikiLeaks, and that investigation remains ongoing,” but he declined to offer any details.
美国司法部(Justice Department)的一名发言人证实称，司法部“在调查涉及维基解密的事情，而且调查仍在进行”，但是他拒绝提供任何细节。
The prosecution of WikiLeaks would put the administration into tricky legal territory. WikiLeaks is an international organization and, unlike Mr. Manning and Mr. Snowden, Mr. Assange and the other members did not work for the United States government or its contractors and could not be charged with espionage.
对维基解密提起公诉可能会使奥巴马政府陷入棘手的法律境地。维基解密是一个国际组织，而且与曼宁和斯诺登不同，阿桑奇和其他成员并没有为美国政府或其承包商工作，所以不能指控他们犯下间谍罪。
WikiLeaks maintains it was functioning as a publisher by enabling the release of information in the public interest, and it has frequently been a partner with traditional news organizations, including The New York Times and The Guardian. If the government charged WikiLeaks and Mr. Assange as co-conspirators, it would be arguing that, unlike their partners, they are not journalists.
维基解密坚称自己是出版者，从公共利益出发，为信息曝光创造条件，同时它还经常是《纽约时报》和《卫报》等传统新闻机构的合作伙伴。如果美国政府起诉维基解密和阿桑奇是共谋者，它将主张，与合作伙伴不同，他们并非新闻工作者。
“Given the government’s aggression in the Snowden case, I would expect that the government will continue to move forward with the Assange case on a conspiracy theory, even though WikiLeaks would seem eligible for First Amendment protections,” said James C. Goodale, a First Amendment lawyer who previously worked for The Times and is the author of “Fighting for the Press.”
“鉴于政府在斯诺登案件中咄咄逼人的态度，虽然维基解密似乎有资格得到第一修正案(First Amendment)的保护，但我认为政府将继续以共谋理论为依据，推进阿桑奇一案，”第一修正案律师詹姆斯·C·古德尔(James C. Goodale)说。他曾在《纽约时报》工作，著有《为媒体战斗》(Fighting for the Press)。
He added that no reporter had ever been successfully prosecuted on a conspiracy charge but that recent actions, like the investigation of a Fox News reporter, James Rosen, was evidence that the government was “moving toward criminalizing the reporting process.”
他补充说，从来没有记者被以共谋罪的罪名成功定罪，但最近的一些行为，比如针对福克斯新闻频道(Fox News)记者詹姆斯·罗森(James Rosen)的调查，证明政府“正趋向于给报道过程扣上犯罪的帽子”。
The Times has never been contacted as part of a WikiLeaks investigation, said David E. McCraw, its assistant general counsel. “But I would note that the proposed shield law,” he said, describing new legislation that the administration says is an effort to shield journalists from prosecution, “tries to define Wiki-like publishers out of the definition of news organizations.”
《纽约时报》助理总法律顾问戴维·E·麦克劳(David E. McCraw)表示，官方从未在调查维基解密的过程中联系《纽约时报》。麦克劳提到了新立法，奥巴马政府称此法是为了使新闻工作者免受起诉， 他说 ，“但我要指出，拟议中的盾牌法试图将维基之类的出版者排除在新闻机构的定义范围以外。”
Mr. Assange declined to be interviewed, but said in a statement to The New York Times that the Justice Department “and its accompanying F.B.I. investigation are blinded by their zeal to get rid of publishers who speak truth to power. They believe U.S. agencies can flout laws, coerce people into becoming informants, steal our property and detain our alleged sources without trial.”
阿桑奇拒绝接受采访，但他在给《纽约时报》的声明中表示，美国司法部“及与之配合的联邦调查局调查急于除掉敢于向权力说真话的出版者，因而不辨是非。他们认为美国的政府机构可以藐视法律，迫使人们成为告密者，盗取我们的财产，并且不经审判就拘留据称的消息来源。”
The investigation has largely been carried out in secret, as most are, but a few clues have emerged. In December 2010, a federal prosecutor requested Twitter account information for Mr. Manning, Mr. Assange and Birgitta Jonsdottir, a former WikiLeaks activist and now a member of Iceland’s Parliament, among others. A redacted version of the subpoena served on Ms. Jonsdottir cited a specific conspiracy provision which may have been aimed at those thought to have assisted Mr. Manning.
像大多数调查一样，这项调查主要是秘密进行的，但一些线索已浮出水面。2010年12月，一名联邦检察官要求获得曼宁、阿桑奇及比吉塔·约恩斯多蒂尔(Birgitta Jonsdottir)等人的Twitter账户信息，后者曾是维基解密活动人士，现在是冰岛议会议员。约恩斯多蒂尔收到的传票的删节版内容提到了具体的共谋条款，该条款可能针对那些据信帮助过曼宁的人。
Other court orders have been disclosed. Last week, Herbert Snorrason, a former WikiLeaks member once close to Mr. Assange, wrote on his Web site that he had been provided orders, unsealed on May 2, including a search warrant served on Google for “all e-mail associated with my Gmail account, every shred of information they had on my identity, and anything I’d uploaded to a Google service.”
其他法院命令也被披露。上周，曾与阿桑奇关系密切的维基解密前成员赫伯特·斯诺拉松(Herbert Snorrason)在他的网站上写道，他在5月2日被出示法院指令，包括送达谷歌(Google)的一个搜查令，索取“与我的Gmail账户关联的所有邮件，他们掌握的有关我的身份的全部信息，以及我上传至某个谷歌服务的任何内容。”
The pretrial hearings in the case of Mr. Manning have also provided some hints. According to testimony in Mr. Manning’s hearings, as transcribed by Alexa O’Brien, an activist who was present in court, prosecutors told the judge that an F.B.I. file that contained information on Mr. Manning “is much broader” than just his case and contained secret grand jury testimony. He said the file contained 3,475 documents and ran to 42,135 pages.
曼宁案在庭审前的预审开庭也提供了一些线索。根据出庭的活动人士——亚历克萨·奥布赖恩(Alexa O’Brien)——记录的法庭证词，检察官告诉法官，与该案所涉内容相比，FBI建立的曼宁档案“要广泛得多”，其中包含大陪审团的秘密证词。他表示，该档案共有3475份文件，页数多达42135页。
The F.B.I.’s activities in Iceland provide perhaps the clearest view of the government’s interest in Mr. Assange. A young online activist, Sigurdur Ingi Thordarson, (known as Siggi) told a closed session of Iceland’s Parliament this year that he had been he had been cooperating with United States agents investigating WikiLeaks at the time of the F.B.I.’s visit in 2011.
FBI在冰岛的行动可能最明确地展现了美国政府对阿桑奇的兴趣。年轻的网上活动人士西格德·因贾·索达尔松（Sigurdur Ingi Thordarson，被称为西吉[Siggi])今年告诉冰岛议会一个闭门会议，FBI在2011年到访冰岛时，他在与调查维基解密的美国政府工作人员合作。
“He was at the time going back and forwards going to meet Julian” at Ellingham Hall, a rural mansion where he was under house arrest and “they were trying to get him to go there wearing a wire,” Ms. Jonsdottir said in an interview. Mr. Thordarson could not immediately be reached at numbers and e-mail addresses listed for him in Iceland.
约恩斯多蒂尔在一次采访中表示，“他那时来回穿梭与朱利安会面，”地点是英国的爱林厄姆庄园(Ellingham Hall)，阿桑奇当时被软禁在这个田园宅邸，“他们试图在他身上装上窃听器”。记者无法根据索达尔松在冰岛的电话号码及邮箱地址立即与他取得联系。
The F.B.I. efforts left WikiLeaks supporters in Iceland shaken. “The paranoia,” Ms. Jonsdottir said, “is going to kill us all.”
FBI的行动使冰岛的维基解密支持者受到惊吓。约恩斯多蒂尔表示，“这种偏执的多疑会害死我们。”