LONDON — Karen Joy Fowler and Joshua Ferris are among five Americans who have made it onto the longlist of the Man Booker Prize, which for the first time is open to writers from beyond Britain, Ireland and the Commonwealth.
伦敦——五位美国作家进入曼布克奖(Man Booker Prize)的长名单，其中包括凯伦·乔伊·福勒(Karen Joy Fowler)和约书亚·弗里斯(Joshua Ferris)。该奖项首次向英国、爱尔兰和英联邦国家之外的作家开放。
The longlist, which also has six books written by Britons, was announced on Wednesday by the administrators of the prize. The other Americans nominated are Siri Hustvedt, Richard Powers and Joseph O’Neill, an Irish-born writer now living in New York.
这份长名单是周三由该奖项的管理者们公布的，其中包括英国人写的六本书。其他获得提名的美国人是西瑞·阿斯维特(Siri Hustvedt)、理查德·鲍尔斯(Richard Powers)和约瑟夫·奥尼尔(Joseph O’Neill)。奥尼尔生于爱尔兰，现居纽约。
The eclectic list of 13 novels ranges from experimental, literary high-wire acts to more commercial fare, like works by the best-selling authors David Nicholls and Ms. Fowler.
获得提名的13部小说风格各异，从实验小说、高端的文学小说到更商业化的小说，例如畅销作家大卫·尼科尔斯(David Nicholls)和福勒的作品。
The decision to include all authors, “whether from Chicago, Sheffield or Shanghai” rankled some purists when it was announced last September; until last year, the 50,000 pound, or roughly $85,000, prize was restricted to authors from Britain, the other countries in the Commonwealth, and Ireland and Zimbabwe for books originally written in English and published in Britain.
去年9月该奖项宣布决定颁给所有作家——“不管来自芝加哥、谢菲尔德还是上海”——激怒了一些力求纯正的人。直到去年，该奖项50000英镑的奖金（约合85000美元）仅颁给来自英国、英联邦其他国家、爱尔兰和津巴布韦的作家，面向用英语创作、在英国出版的图书。
Immediately, there were grumbles that the American presence came at the expense of writers from Commonwealth countries, as well as writers from smaller, more experimental literary presses. The BBC’s article about the nominees was headlined “Commonwealth Authors Edged Out.“ Some British critics expressed bafflement about the American authors who were chosen. And several commenters noted the absence of heavy hitters with recent or forthcoming books, like Martin Amis, Ian McEwan and Donna Tartt, whose novel “The Goldfinch” won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction.
很快有人抱怨说美国人的出现是以牺牲英联邦国家的作家、以及更具实验文学性的小出版社的作家为代价的。BBC关于该奖项提名的文章以《英联邦作家险胜》(Commonwealth Authors Edged Out)为题。英国一些批评家对获得提名的美国作家表示困惑。几位评论人指出，提名名单中缺乏最近出书或即将出书的重量级人物，例如马丁·艾米斯(Martin Amis)、伊恩·麦克尤恩(Ian McEwan)和唐娜·塔特(Donna Tartt)。塔特的小说《金翅雀》(The Goldfinch)获得了普利策小说奖。
A. C. Grayling, the British philosopher and writer who headed the panel of six judges, said that the selections were based exclusively on merit. “The one guiding principle was to judge each book solely on its literary quality,” he said. “There was no tokenism of any kind.”
英国哲学家、作家A·C·格雷灵(A. C. Grayling)是六人评审组组长。他说这些选择完全是基于品质。“唯一的指导原则是仅根据文学品质来评判每本书，”他说，“没有任何特殊意图。”
The list includes, from the United States, Mr. Ferris’s “To Rise Again at a Decent Hour,” about a Manhattan dentist who discovers that someone is impersonating him online; “We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves,“ by Ms. Fowler; “The Blazing World,“ Ms. Hustvedt’s novel set in New York art circles; “Orfeo,” by Mr. Powers; and Mr. O’Neill’s forthcoming novel “The Dog.”
获得提名的美国作家的作品包括弗里斯的《适时再起》(To Rise Again at a Decent Hour)，讲述的是一个曼哈顿牙医发现有人在网上冒充他；福勒的《我们都疯了》(We Are All Completely Beside Ourselves)；阿斯维特的《炽热的世界》(The Blazing World)，讲述的是纽约的艺术圈；鲍尔斯的《奥尔费奥》(Orfeo)以及奥尼尔即将出版的小说《狗》(The Dog)。
The nominees from Britain are “J,” by Howard Jacobson, a futuristic parable about collective memory loss; “The Wake,” by Paul Kingsnorth; “The Bone Clocks,” by David Mitchell; “The Lives of Others,” by Neel Mukherjee; “Us,” by Mr. Nicholls; and “How to Be Both,” by Ali Smith. From Ireland is “History of the Rain,” by Niall Williams, about the daughter of a dead poet who tries to learn about her father through the books he has collected. And from Australia is “The Narrow Road to the Deep North,” Richard Flanagan’s story of a doctor in a prisoner of war camp.
获得提名的英国小说有霍华德·雅各布森(Howard Jacobson)的《J》，一个关于集体失忆的未来主义寓言；保罗·金斯诺思(Paul Kingsnorth)的《守灵》(The Wake)；大卫·米切尔(David Mitchell)的《骨钟》(The Bone Clocks)；尼尔·穆克吉(Neel Mukherjee)的《别人的生活》(The Lives of Others)；尼科尔斯的《我们》(Us)；阿莉·史密斯(Ali Smith)的《如何两者兼得》(How to Be Both)。入选的爱尔兰小说是尼尔·威廉姆斯(Niall Williams)的《雨的历史》(History of the Rain)，讲述的是一个去世的诗人的女儿想通过父亲的藏书来了解他。入选的澳大利亚小说是理查德·弗拉纳根(Richard Flanagan)的《通往遥远北方的窄路》(The Narrow Road to the Deep North)，讲述的是战俘营里的一位医生。
The 13 nominees were chosen from a field of 154 novels, Mr. Grayling said.
格雷灵说这13部提名小说是从154部小说中挑选出来的。