WASHINGTON — For two years, President Obama has boasted that he accomplished what his predecessor had not. “I ended the war in Iraq,” he has told audience after audience. But a resurgence by Islamic militants in western Iraq has reminded the world that the war is anything but over.
华盛顿——这两年来，奥巴马总统一直夸耀自己完成了前任没有做到的事情。他对一批又一批听众说，“我结束了伊拉克战争。”但伊斯兰武装分子在伊拉克西部卷土重来，提醒全世界，那场战争并未结束。
What Mr. Obama ended was the United States military presence in Iraq, but the fighting did not stop when the last troops left in 2011; it simply stopped being a daily concern for most Americans. While attention shifted elsewhere, the war raged on and has now escalated to its most violent phase since the depths of the occupation.
奥巴马结束的，只是美国在伊拉克的军事存在。但2011年，最后一批部队离开伊拉克时，战斗并没有结束，只是这件事已经不再是大多数美国人的日常关注点了。虽然人们的注意力转移到了其他地方，但战争却仍在那里肆虐，现在已经升级到了伊拉克被美军占领以来，战斗最猛烈的阶段。
The turn of events in a country that once dominated the American agenda underscores the approach of a president determined to keep the United States out of what he sees as the quagmires of the last decade. In places like Afghanistan, Egypt, Libya and Syria, Mr. Obama has opted for selective engagement and accepted that sometimes there will be bad results, but in his view not as bad as if the United States immersed itself more assertively in other people’s problems.
伊拉克在美国的议程中曾占据主导地位，该国形势出现这样的变化，令奥巴马的态度显得受人注目。奥巴马认为美国过去的十年陷入了泥潭，一心想避免它重蹈覆辙。对于阿富汗、埃及、利比亚和叙利亚的事务，奥巴马进行了有选择的参与，并接受了有时会出现糟糕后果的可能性，但在他看来即使是糟糕的后果，也好过让美国更卖力地淌进别人的问题当中。
The president’s methods have come under new scrutiny in recent days with flags of Al Qaeda hoisted over Falluja and Ramadi, two names with deep resonance for a generation of American veterans who spilled blood there. And the criticism was fueled by a new memoir by former Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates describing an ambivalent commander in chief who did not believe in his own military buildup in Afghanistan and wanted mainly to get out of Iraq.
奥巴马的这种应对方式近来重新受到了人们的审视，因为费卢杰和拉马迪飘扬起了基地组织的旗帜，对于曾在那里抛洒热血的整整一代美国军人来说，这两个地名能够引发深切的共鸣。而前国防部长罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)新出版的回忆录，也对这种批评推波助澜。在这本书中，奥巴马被描绘成为一个心态矛盾的总司令，他不相信美国自身在阿富汗增兵的效果，而在伊拉克问题上，他的主要想法就是撤军。
“The vacuum of American leadership certainly is felt there,” said Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, the top Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, who last visited Baghdad in August. “It felt as if the administration thought that Iraq was checked off the list and it’s time to move on. And because it was checked off the list, there really was no reason to maintain the kind of relationship that would have been helpful.”
“可以明显感觉到那里由于缺乏了美国的主导，出现了权力真空，”田纳西州参议员、外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)共和党资深成员鲍勃·柯克(Bob Corker)说。“仿佛奥巴马政府觉得，伊拉克已经从待办事项里划掉了，现在是时候做其他事情了。而且既然已经把伊拉克划掉了，就没有理由维持这种本来有益的关系了。”柯克上一次访问巴格达是去年8月。
Critics complain that Mr. Obama squandered the military success achieved by President George W. Bush’s 2007 troop “surge” and should have done more to persuade Baghdad to accept a residual American force beyond 2011. They say he should have been more active in restraining Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, whose Shiite leadership has alienated many Sunnis, fueling the latest uprising.
批评人士抱怨，奥巴马挥霍了乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)在2007年“增兵”后取得的军事成功，他本来应该做更多的说服工作，让巴格达同意美国在2011年之后也保留一些驻军。他们说，奥巴马本来应该更加主动地约束伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)，他的什叶派领导层疏远了很多逊尼派人士，助长了最新的反叛。
But if Mr. Obama has pulled back from Iraq and other global hot spots, so has the American public. The president’s decision to withdraw troops from Iraq remains popular in surveys, and even his strongest critics generally do not advocate sending ground forces back in. After years of crushing guerrilla warfare, Obama advisers argue the president has simply recalibrated American policy to be more realistic, and many Americans seem content to let Iraqis fight it out themselves.
尽管可以说奥巴马已经从伊拉克以及全球其他战乱区域抽身，但其实美国公众也是一样。民调显示，奥巴马从伊拉克撤军的决定仍然受到了很大的支持，就连他最激烈的批评者，一般也不会主张再向伊拉克派遣地面部队。与游击队作战多年之后，奥巴马的顾问说，总统已经把美国的政策调整得更加现实，很多美国人似乎也满足于让伊拉克自己打出一个结果来。
“There was never a sense at the White House that this is a wrap, that we’ve somehow resolved all the conflict in the country and the U.S. could pull back,” said Julianne Smith, a former deputy national security adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. who is now at the Center for a New American Security. But for all the effort, she added, “we have to be cleareyed about the limits of U.S. engagement.”
曾在副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)手下担任副国家安全顾问的茱莉安·史密斯(Julianne Smith)说，“白宫从来没有产生过‘就此收尾’的感觉，没有以为我们大体上解决了那个国家所有的冲突，美国可以抽身了。”史密斯现在供职于新美国安全中心(Center for a New American Security)。但她也补充道，尽管付出了很多努力，但是“我们也要清醒地认识到美国的干预存在局限”。
She continued: “At the end of the day, the United States does not control what happens in Iraq.”
她还说：“说到底，美国没办法控制伊拉克会发生什么。”
The strife in Iraq today has turned into part of a larger regional battlefield tied to the civil war next door in Syria. In recent months, American officials said, as many as 50 suicide bombers a month have slipped over the border into Iraq, greatly complicating the nature of the conflict. The Qaeda assaults in Falluja and Ramadi came after a year in which 7,800 civilians and 1,000 Iraqi security troops were killed in attacks, according to the United Nations, the highest levels in five years.
伊拉克今天的争斗，已经变成了范围更大的地区性战场的一部分，与邻国叙利亚的内战紧密相关。美国官员透露，最近几个月，每月都有多达50名自杀炸弹袭击者越境进入伊拉克，这场冲突的复杂性因此大大加剧。联合国(United Nations)数据显示，基地组织在费卢杰和拉马迪发动袭击之前的一年里，有7800名平民和1000名伊拉克安全部队成员在袭击中丧生。这是过去五年中最多的一年。
Some Republicans acknowledged the complicated set of dynamics at work. “Is there some responsibility for the United States for this chain of events? Yes,” said Representative Mac Thornberry of Texas, the vice chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. “Is it the sole cause? No.”
一些共和党人承认，相互牵扯的影响因素十分复杂。众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)副主席，德克萨斯州众议员迈克·索恩伯里(Mac Thornberry)说，“发生这一连串的事件美国有没有一定责任？有。它是唯一的原因吗？不是。”
Mr. Obama has made no public comment about the developments in the Iraqi province of Anbar, leaving the matter instead to Mr. Biden, his point person on Iraq. Mr. Biden called Mr. Maliki on Wednesday in their second conversation in three days, pressing for more outreach to disaffected Sunnis.
对于伊拉克安巴尔省的事态发展，奥巴马尚未公开发表评论，而是把这个问题交给了负责伊拉克问题的拜登。周三，拜登致电马利基，要求后者向心怀不满的逊尼派作出更多示好举动，这是二人在过去三天来的第二次通话。
The administration is sending Hellfire missiles and surveillance drones to help Iraqi forces and has stepped up efforts to persuade the Senate to permit the lease and sale of Apache attack helicopters. Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the Democratic chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, has held up the Apaches while demanding that they not be used against civilians and that Mr. Maliki take steps to stop Iran from supplying Syria’s military through Iraqi airspace.
奥巴马政府提供了“地狱火”(Hellfire)导弹和监控无人机帮助伊拉克军方，还加大力劝说参议院允许租赁和销售“阿帕奇”(Apache)攻击直升机。新泽西州民主党参议员、外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)主席罗伯特·梅嫩德斯(Robert Menendez)阻挠了提供阿帕奇直升机的进程，要求直升机不能针对平民，还要求马利基采取措施，阻止伊朗通过伊拉克空域向叙利亚军方提供支持。
After months of waiting, Mr. Menendez received an urgent call from the State Department on Tuesday promising a response, and he signaled Wednesday that he may lift his hold. “Provided these issues are sufficiently addressed, Chairman Menendez will be ready to move forward,” said his spokesman, Adam Sharon.
在等待数月之后，国务院周二向梅嫩德斯打来了一通紧急电话，承诺会作出反应，之后梅嫩德斯在周三表示他或许会停止其阻挠行动。他的发言人亚当·沙伦(Adam Sharon)说，“如果这些问题得到了妥善的解决，梅嫩德斯主席原意向前看。”
Even so, other senators may still be wary. “I think we have to be very careful,” said Senator Saxby Chambliss, the ranking Republican on the Intelligence Committee. “All of that could fall into the wrong hands.”
尽管如此，其他参议员或许仍然会心存警惕。共和党参议员、情报委员会(Intelligence Committee)资深成员萨克斯比·钱布利斯(Saxby Chambliss)说，“我想我们必须要非常小心，所有这些武器都可能会落入旁人手中。”
And even once it is approved, it could take months for the first of the leased Apaches to arrive, and pilots would need to be trained, officials said. More broadly, the administration has made it clear that Baghdad should not expect the United States to come to its rescue. Secretary of State John Kerry emphasized last weekend that “this is a fight that belongs to the Iraqis,” using the words “their fight” four more times in the course of comments to reporters.
官员们表示，即使这个提议最后得到通过，第一批租借的阿帕奇直升机运抵伊拉克也要等到数月之后，而且飞行员也需要培训。更广泛的问题是，奥巴马政府明确表示，伊拉克政府不应该期待美国会出手搭救。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)上周末强调，“这是一场属于伊拉克人的战斗”，他在向记者们发表评论的过程中，先后说了四次“他们的战斗”。
The White House denies that it has neglected Iraq.
白宫否认自身忽视了伊拉克。
“It’s an important relationship that we have with the government of Iraq, with the Iraqi people, and our commitment to assisting them in this effort I think is represented both by the military assistance that we’re providing and speeding up but also by the kind of discourse that we have with Iraq’s leaders,” said Jay Carney, the White House press secretary.
“我们与伊拉克政府及伊拉克民众之间的关系相当重要。我们致力于在这一过程中协助他们。我认为，这一承诺不仅体现在我们正在提供而且不断加快的军事援助上，还体现在我们与伊拉克领导人之间的各种对话上，”白宫发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)说。
Other officials said they have quietly helped guide Mr. Maliki’s response, intervening to stop him from launching a head-on army assault on Ramadi, which they feared would only lead to a blood bath.
其他一些官员则称，他们悄然指导了马利基的回应策略，出手阻止他对拉马迪发动正面军事袭击，因为他们担心，这样做会导致血流成河。
Instead, they encouraged him to reach out to Sunni tribal leaders and approve payments to those fighting Al Qaeda.
他们鼓励马利基转而主动接触逊尼派部族长老，并批准向反抗基地组织的那些人拨款。
In doing so, they said, the Iraqi government and its allies have recaptured much of Ramadi in just a week. They hope to try something similar in Falluja, but conceded it is more of a challenge because the city has long been friendlier to Islamic extremists.
他们表示，通过这些做法，伊拉克政府及其盟友在短短一周时间内重新占领了拉马迪的大部分地区。他们希望在费卢杰尝试类似策略，不过也承认那里的困难更大，因为该地长期对伊斯兰极端分子更为友善。
“In cases like this, we have to choose between the least bad options,” said Anthony H. Cordesman, an analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who just completed a long study of Iraq. “The whole idea that we have some magic wand hasn’t worked out all that well.”
“在这种情况下，我们必须要在一系列坏选择里，挑一个没那么坏的，”国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的分析师安东尼·H·科德斯曼(Anthony H. Cordesman)说。他刚刚完成了一项对伊拉克的长期研究。“我们能挥舞什么魔杖的想法根本行不通。”