WASHINGTON — Two leading senators have asked the Obama administration to warn South Korea against allowing Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications firm, to build large parts of a next-generation network for the capital city of Seoul, arguing that it could give the Chinese government a way to enter the networks of a major American ally.
华盛顿——两名重要美国议员要求奥巴马政府警告韩国，不要让中国通讯公司华为在韩国首尔修建下一代网络的大型部件，理由是中国政府可能会借此进入美国这个重要盟友的网络。
The issue appears almost certain to come up when Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. arrives in Seoul later this week, the last stop on his Asian trip.
此事似乎必将在副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)于本周晚些时候抵达首尔时被提上议事日程。首尔是拜登亚洲访问的最后一站。
At a moment when the United States is already protesting China’s establishment of an “air defense zone” over disputed territory in the East China Sea, the Huawei issue is bound to be another irritant in an increasingly contentious discussion with the government of the Chinese president, Xi Jinping.
目前，美国已经对中国在东海争议岛屿上空划设“防空识别区”的行为表示了抗议，美国与中国国家主席习近平领导的政府之间的谈话也越来越有分歧，华为问题势必成为另一件棘手的事情。
The White House would not say whether Mr. Biden was planning to bring the issue up with the leadership in Seoul.
白宫不愿透露拜登是否打算与首尔领导层讨论此事。
But a senior administration official, while declining to talk about the diplomatic discussions between Washington and South Korea, noted that “we do have concerns about Huawei, evidenced by the fact that Huawei was excluded in October of 2011 from taking part in the building of America’s wireless emergency network for first responders, due to U.S. government national security concerns.”
但是，一名高级政府官员指出，“我们的确担心华为，以事实为例，2011年10月，出于国家安全考虑，美国政府没有让华为参与建设美国为现场急救员设立的无线应急网络。”与此同时，这名官员拒绝谈论美韩之间的外交商讨。
In that case, and in others, Huawei has been blocked from playing a major role in the American telecommunications market for fear that it would build a “back door” into its systems that would give the Chinese government entry points into the telecommunications networks and Web traffic.
在前述事例以及其他一些事例中，华为一直遭到阻挠，未能在美国通讯市场发挥重要作用，因为人们担心华为会在它的系统里安插“后门”，给中国政府提供进入通讯网络和网络信息流的入口。
For years, Huawei has dismissed those arguments, arguing that the company has no significant link to the Chinese government, and that its systems are open for scrutiny by regulatory authorities.
多年来，华为一直不承认这些说法，称华为与中国政府没有太大联系，它的系统也可以接受监管者的检查。
Recently, senior company executives have said they had all but given up on the American market.
最近，该公司高管宣称，他们已经基本上放弃了美国市场。
The warning about the Seoul network came in a private letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, and the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr.
关于首尔网络的警告是以私人信函的形式发出的，收件人为国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)、国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)，以及国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)。
In the letter, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California and the chairwoman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, and Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, cited the close American and South Korean intelligence and military ties.
写信的两人分别是参议院情报委员会(Senate Select Committee on Intelligence)主席、来自加利福尼亚州的共和党参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)，以及参议院外交委员会(Senate Foreign Affairs Committee)主席、来自新泽西州的民主党参议员罗伯特·梅嫩德斯(Robert Menendez)。在信中，两人援引美韩之间紧密的情报与军事联系作为理由。
They warned that “the integrity of telecommunications infrastructure is critical to the operational effectiveness of this important security alliance” and asked for an “assessment of the potential threats” of having Huawei acting as a supplier to a new, advanced system in Seoul.
他们警告，“通讯基础设施完好可靠，对这一重要安全盟友的行动有效性至关重要”，并且要求对华为向首尔一个新的先进网络提供服务的“潜在威胁进行评估”。
The senior administration official, who requested anonymity because it involved a sensitive diplomatic issue, would not say how the White House planned to respond to the letter.
由于涉及敏感外交问题，前述高级政府官员要求不具名。此人也不愿透露白宫打算如何回应这封信。