The Supreme Court’s 1944 decision in Korematsu v. United States was a disaster. In endorsing an executive order that required 110,000 Americans of Japanese ancestry to be removed from their homes and confined in detention camps, the court relied on wartime hysteria streaked with racism, sullying its reputation and damaging the constitutional principles it was meant to uphold.
最高法院1944年对是松丰三郎诉美国政府案（Korematsu v. United States，简称：是松案）的裁决糟糕至极。在带有种族歧视色彩的战争歇斯底里症的驱使下，最高法院支持了要求11万日裔美国人离开家园、关入拘留营的一项行政命令，此举为其声誉抹上了污点，也破坏了它理应坚持的宪法原则。
Justice Antonin Scalia has ranked Korematsu alongside Dred Scott, the 1857 decision that black slaves were property and not citizens, as among the court’s most shameful blunders.
大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)把是松案和德雷德·斯科特(Dred Scott)案相提并论，称它们都属于最高法院所犯下的最可耻错误。1857年的斯科特案中，法院做出了黑奴是财产，而不是公民的裁定。
Justice Stephen G. Breyer has written that Korematsu has lost all potency as precedent. “The decision has been so thoroughly discredited,” he wrote in a recent book, “that it is hard to conceive of any future court referring to it favorably or relying on it.”
大法官史蒂芬·G·布雷耶(Stephen G. Breyer)曾写道，是松案彻底失去了作为判例的资格。他在最近的一本书中写道，“这个裁决已名誉扫地。很难想象未来会有任何法院会引用它来支持自己的裁决，或借鉴它的判决结果。”
But Korematsu has never been overruled.
不过，是松案从未被推翻。
Calls for the Supreme Court to renounce the ruling started almost immediately after it was issued, and have persisted for 70 years. “Public expiation in the case of the internment of Japanese Americans from the West Coast would be good for the court, and for the country,” Eugene V. Rostow wrote in 1945, in The Yale Law Journal.
要求最高法院撤销判决的呼吁几乎在裁决做出之后就立即开始了，已经坚持了70年。尤金·V·罗斯托(Eugene V. Rostow)1945年在《耶鲁法律学刊》(The Yale Law Journal)中写道，“对西海岸日裔美国人被拘留案进行公开修正，对法院、对国家都有好处。”
The jurisprudential problem for the court is that it needs a proper setting in which to overrule a decision. It rules on live controversies, and the mass detention of citizens has not arisen again.
最高法院所面对的法理问题是，它需要一个合适的契机，才能推翻一个决定。它对当下发生的争议进行裁决，但居民被大规模拘禁这样的事件没有再出现过。
The failure to make a definitive statement may also reflect a lack of judicial creativity. The court can say what it likes about its earlier rulings, and it would cost nothing but ink to say something about Korematsu.
未能发表一个权威的声明可能也反映出司法创造力的缺乏。法院可以谈论以往裁决的可取之处，而除了墨水，谈论是松案也不需要任何成本。
The court will soon have a chance to do that in a case concerning a 2012 federal law that authorized the military detention without trial of people accused of providing support to terrorist organizations. The law left in place “existing law or authorities relating to the detention of United States citizens.” That would seem to include the Korematsu decision.
法院将很快在一桩与2012年一部联邦法律有关的案件中有机会做这件事。该法律允许在未经审理的情况下，对被指控为恐怖组织提供支持的人进行军事关押。该法律没有改变“与美国公民被拘留有关的现有法律或权力机关”。这似乎包括了是松案的裁决。
In urging the Supreme Court to hear their case, Hedges v. Obama, No. 13-758, the plaintiffs challenging the law asked the justices to consider whether Korematsu should be overruled.
在编号为13-758的赫奇斯诉奥巴马案(Hedges v. Obama)中，为了敦促最高法院审理他们的案子，挑战这部法律的原告们请求大法官们考虑是否应该推翻是松案。
The new case is hardly an ideal vehicle. The federal appeals court in New York dismissed it, saying that the plaintiffs had not suffered the sort of injury that gave them standing to sue, and it said nothing about Korematsu. Solicitor General Donald B. Verrilli Jr. will presumably oppose a Supreme Court review on the grounds that the appeals court’s ruling on standing was correct.
这桩最新的案件并不是推翻是松案的理想途径。纽约联邦上诉法院驳回了这起案件，称原告并没有受到那种赋予他们起诉权的侵害，它也丝毫没有提及是松案。联邦总检察长小唐纳德·B·韦里利(Donald B. Verrilli Jr.)很可能会反对最高法院审查是松案，理由是上诉法院在起诉权问题上的裁决是正确的 。
But Peter H. Irons, a lawyer who discovered evidence of government misconduct in the Korematsu case and later helped its namesake, Fred Korematsu, wipe out his conviction, for remaining in a restricted military area, said the new case represents an opportunity.
但彼得·H·艾恩斯(Peter H. Irons)说，这桩新案件代表着一个机会。艾恩斯是一名律师，他发现了政府在是松案中行为失当的证据，后来帮助案件的主人公是松丰三郎洗脱了因为留在军事限制区而获得的罪名。
He and other lawyers recently wrote to Mr. Verrilli to ask him to join the plaintiffs in asking that Korematsu be overruled. They reminded Mr. Verrilli that his predecessor, Acting Solicitor General Neal Kumar Katyal, had in 2011 issued a “confession of error” for the actions of government lawyers in the Korematsu case. Those lawyers, over the protests of underlings, had twisted and withheld evidence from the Supreme Court.
他和一些其他律师最近写信给韦里利，要求他和这些原告一起，要求推翻是松案的判决。他们提醒韦里利，他的前任、代理联邦总检察长尼尔·库马尔·卡特亚尔(Neal Kumar Katyal)2011年为政府律师在是松案中的行动“承认了错误”。这些律师不顾下属的抗议，在最高法院曲解和隐瞒了一些证据。
Mr. Katyal spoke for the executive branch. Congress has also addressed the matter.
卡特亚尔也为这个执行部门辩护。国会也提到了这个问题。
In 1982, a congressional commission concluded that the internment of Japanese Americans was “a grave injustice” animated by “race prejudice, war hysteria and a failure of political leadership.” It added that “the decision in Korematsu lies overruled in the court of history.”
1982年，一个国会委员会作出决定，拘留日裔美国人是一个源自“种族歧视、战争歇斯底里和政治领导人失责”的“严重的非正义行为”。决定中还说，“是松案的决定在历史的法庭上已经被推翻”。
But not in the court that issued it. “The Supreme Court is the last branch of government to formally apologize and renounce this,” Mr. Irons said in an interview.
但做出这个裁决的法院还没有这么做。艾恩斯在接受采访时说，“最高法院是最不愿意正式道歉和撤销此案的政府机构。”
He said the Hedges case could provide an opportunity even if the court declined to hear it, as it is not unusual for justices to append statements to orders denying review. “It would be a very symbolic gesture on the court’s part, especially if it is joined by a majority of the justices,” Mr. Irons said of such a statement.
他说，即使法院拒绝审理赫奇斯案，该案还是可以提供一个机会，理由是，大法官在判令中附加拒绝审查的声明并非前所未有。艾恩斯说起这份声明，“这样的一份声明是法院做出的一个非常有象征意义的姿态，尤其是如果它受到大多数大法官支持的话。”
In his dissent in the 1944 Korematsu decision, Justice Robert H. Jackson wrote that the Supreme Court “for all time has validated the principle of racial discrimination in criminal procedure and of transplanting American citizens.”
对1944年是松案裁决提出异议时，大法官罗伯特·H·杰克逊(Robert H. Jackson)写道，最高法院“一直奉行着在刑事案件的审理中认可种族歧视的原则，以及转移美国公民的原则。”
“The principle then lies about like a loaded weapon, ready for the hand of any authority that can bring forward a plausible claim of an urgent need,” he added.
他补充说，“这个原则就像一个上了弹药的武器，任何能够提出一个急需的可信说法的权力机关都可以使用它。”
Most lawyers and scholars think the weapon has long been disarmed as a practical matter. But the view is not universal.
大多数律师和学者都认为，这个武器实际上早已失去杀伤力。但并不是所有人都这么认为。
“What will we say after another terrorist attack?” Bruce Ackerman, a professor of law at Yale, asked in a 2004 essay. “More precisely, what will the Supreme Court say if Arab-Americans are herded into concentration camps? Are we certain any longer that the wartime precedent of Korematsu will not be extended to the ‘war on terrorism?’ ”
耶鲁大学法学教授布鲁斯·阿克曼(Bruce Ackerman)在2004年的一篇文章中问道，“如果再发生一次恐怖袭击，我们会怎么说？更准确地说，如果阿拉伯裔美国人被赶进集中营，最高法院会怎么说？我们是否仍然确定，战争时期的是松案判例不会被延伸到 ‘反恐之战’？”
There are ways for the Supreme Court to answer those questions. It is one thing to disarm a weapon, and another to destroy it.
最高法院有很多办法来回答这些问题。消除一个武器的杀伤力是一回事，毁掉它则是另外一回事。