The Food and Drug Administration proposed measures on Thursday that would all but eliminate artery-clogging, artificial trans fats from the food supply, the culmination of three decades of effort by public health advocates to get the government to take action against them.
美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）周四提出了一项举措，将几乎全面禁止在食品中添加阻塞动脉的人造反式脂肪。公共卫生倡导人士劝说政府对反式脂肪采取措施的努力已经持续了三十年，FDA作出的决定标志着，他们的努力取得了成果。
Artificial trans fats — a major contributor to heart disease in the United States — have already been substantially reduced in foods. But they still lurk in many popular products, like frostings, microwave popcorn, packaged pies, frozen pizzas, margarines and coffee creamers. Banning them completely could prevent 20,000 heart attacks and 7,000 deaths from heart disease each year, the F.D.A. said.
人造反式脂肪作为美国人心脏疾病的一个主要诱因，在食品中的使用已经显著减少。但是仍然藏身在许多受人欢迎的产品中，如蛋糕涂层、微波炉爆米花、包装销售的馅饼、速冻比萨、人造黄油和咖啡伴侣。FDA表示，彻底禁止反式脂肪的话，每年能避免2万人心脏病发病、7000人死亡。
“This is the final slam dunk on the trans fat issue,” said Barry Popkin, a nutrition epidemiologist at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
北卡罗来纳大学教堂山分校(University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill)营养流行病学家巴里·波普金(Barry Popkin)说，“这就像是反式脂肪问题上最后的一记大灌篮。”
The proposal is a rare political victory in an era when many regulations to protect public health have stalled. A landmark food safety bill took years to carry out, in part because it collided with the 2012 election season. And rules to regulate the tobacco industry are still stuck, four years after the law calling for them was passed. But just last month, the F.D.A. toughened restrictions on narcotic painkillers over industry objections. Thursday’s announcement got the attention of food experts.
在当下这个保护公众健康的监管举措时常停滞不前的时代，FDA的这项提案是一场罕见的政治胜利。一项有划时代意义的食品安全法案花了很多年才得以实施，部分上是因为碰巧撞上了2012年的选举季。监管烟草行业的规则仍然受到了阻碍，尽管要求执行这些规则的法律4年前就已经通过。但就在上个月，FDA直面业界的反对，加强了对麻醉性止痛药的约束。而周四公布的规定则受到了食品专家的关注。
“The F.D.A. is back,” said Marion Nestle, a professor in the department of nutrition, food studies and public health at New York University.
纽约大学(New York University)营养学、食品研究和公共卫生系教授玛丽恩·内斯特尔(Marion Nestle)说，“FDA又回来了。”
The agency has proposed that partially hydrogenated oils, the source of trans fats, no longer be “generally recognized as safe.”
FDA提出，部分氢化油不再“被认为一般是安全的”。部分氢化油是反式脂肪的来源。
That means companies would have to prove that such oils are safe to eat, a high hurdle given that scientific literature overwhelmingly shows the contrary. The Institute of Medicine has concluded that there is no safe level for consumption of them, a conclusion that the F.D.A. cited in its reasoning.
这就意味着企业必须要证明这种油脂足够安全，可供食用。但这是一个大的障碍，因为科研文献压倒性地证明了相反的事实。医学研究所(Institute of Medicine)曾得出结论，摄入反式脂肪不存在所谓的安全水平，FDA的论证中引用了这一结论。
The agency emphasized that the ruling, which is open to public comment for 60 days, was preliminary. But food producers seemed to take it in stride, in part because many had already made adjustments, and Dr. Margaret A. Hamburg, the agency’s commissioner, signaled that the draft rule might be made final.
FDA强调这只是一个初步决定，并且有60天的公众咨询期。然而食品生产商似乎已经安然接受，部分原因在于很多企业已经作出了调整，而且FDA玛格丽特·A·汉伯格博士(Margaret A. Hamburg)表示，这份决定当前的草稿可能会成为终稿。
“Life has many uncertainties, but we are on a clear track,” she said Thursday on a conference call with reporters. Michael Taylor, deputy commissioner for foods at the F.D.A., said, “We have solid evidence showing the need for today’s action on trans fat.”
“生命有很多不确定性，但我们的路线是清晰的，”她周四在与记者举行的电话会议上说。FDA负责食品的副局长迈克尔·泰勒(Michael Taylor)则说，“我们有确凿的证据显示，今天对反式脂肪采取的措施是必要的。”
Partially hydrogenated oils are cheaper than saturated animal fats like butter, and for years were thought to be healthier. They are formed when liquid oil is treated with hydrogen gas and made solid. They became popular in fried and baked goods and in margarine. Crisco, originally marketed in the beginning of the 20th century, was the archetype, although it now contains no trans fat.
部分氢化油比动物饱和脂肪便宜，而且有很长一段时间也被认为更健康。这种物质是液态的油经过氢气处理成为固态后形成的。后来它们在油炸和烘焙食品以及人造黄油中流行开来。最初于20世纪初期问世的Crisco牌起酥油是使用这种物质的鼻祖，尽管现在Crisco已经不再包含反式脂肪。
But over the years, scientific evidence has shown they are dangerous because they raise the levels of so-called bad cholesterol and can lower the levels of good cholesterol. In 2003, the F.D.A. required that artificial trans fats be listed on food labels, a shift that prompted many large producers to eliminate them. Two years later, New York City under Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg told restaurants to stop using artificial trans fats in cooking; other places, including California, Cleveland and Philadelphia, followed suit. Many major chains, like McDonald’s, found substitutes and eliminated trans fats.
但多年来的科学证据表明，这种物质是危险的，因为它们会提高所谓的“坏胆固醇”的水平，并抑制“好胆固醇”的水平。2003年，FDA要求人造反式脂肪成分需要在食品标签中注明，这一举动已经促使许多大型食品生产商去除了反式脂肪成分。两年后，由时任市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)领导的纽约市政府要求餐馆不要在烹饪时使用人造反式脂肪，还有包括加利福尼亚州、克利夫兰和费城在内的其他一些地方也效仿了这一做法。许多大型连锁企业，如麦当劳(McDonald’s)，找到了替代品，停止了反式脂肪的使用。
Those actions led to a stunning reduction in consumption: Americans ate about one gram a day last year, down from 4.6 grams in 2006. A report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that blood levels of trans fatty acids among white adults in the United States declined by 58 percent from 2000 to 2009.
这些举措导致反式脂肪消耗量出现了惊人的下降：去年美国人平均每天摄入反式脂肪1克，与2006年的4.6克相比出现大幅下降。美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的一份报告指出，从2000年到2009年，美国成年白人血液中的反式脂肪酸水平下降了58%。
But the fats were not banned. They are required to be listed on food labels only if there is more than half a gram per serving, a trace amount that can add up. Even as little as two or three grams of trans fat a day can increase the health risk, scientists say. (Some trans fats occur naturally. The F.D.A. proposal applies only to those that are added to foods.)
但这种脂肪当时并未遭到禁止，而且只有每餐中含量超过半克时才需要在食品包装上标注。尽管这个含量很小，但可以累积起来，而科学家表示，每日摄入反式脂肪哪怕只有2到3克，也会提高健康风险。（有些反式脂肪是自然产生的。FDA提出的规定只适用于添加到食品中的反式脂肪。）
“The artery is still half clogged,” said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the disease centers, who led the charge against the fats in New York when he was health commissioner there.
“动脉仍然堵塞了一半，”疾防控制中心主任托马斯·R·弗里登(Thomas R. Frieden)博士说。他在纽约担任卫生专员时，曾领导过反脂肪的斗争。
Scientists emphasized that saturated fats are still an enormous problem in the American diet, and that Thursday’s ruling should not give consumers false security.
科学家们强调，在美国的饮食结构中，饱和脂肪仍然是一个巨大问题，周四的裁决不应该给消费者带来虚假的安全感。
“In the push to reduce trans fats, people have been forgetting that saturated fats are much worse because there is a lot more saturated fat in the diet than trans fat,” said Dr. Scott Grundy, director of the Center for Human Nutrition at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas.
斯科特·格兰迪(Scott Grundy)博士说：“在大力降低反式脂肪时，人们已经忘记，饱和脂肪更加糟糕，因为在我们的饮食中，饱和脂肪的含量比反式脂肪多得多。”格兰迪是达拉斯德克萨斯大学西南医学中心(University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center)人类营养学中心(Center for Human Nutrition)的主任。
Dr. Alice H. Lichtenstein, a nutritional biochemist at Tufts University, said about 1 percent of Americans’ total energy intake is trans fats, while about 12 percent is saturated fats.
爱丽丝·H·利希滕斯坦(Alice H. Lichtenstein)博士是塔夫茨大学(Tufts University)的营养生物化学家，她说，在美国人摄入的总能量中，反式脂肪占大约1％，而饱和脂肪占到了12％左右。
Some nutritionists worried that trans fats would simply be replaced by saturated fats. But a study of lunch receipts from major fast food chains in New York found that while saturated fat consumption increased modestly, the average of both together declined by about 2 grams per person, said Jean Weinberg, a spokeswoman for New York City’s health department.
一些营养学家担心，人们减少摄入反式脂肪的同时，会多摄入等量的饱和脂肪。但纽约市卫生部门的女发言人简·温伯格(Jean Weinberg)说，通过对纽约大型连锁快餐店午餐收据进行的一项研究发现，虽然饱和脂肪的消费量略有增加，但两者的总消费量每人平均降低了2克。
Experts said they did not expect companies or restaurants to object strenuously to the F.D.A. proposal, largely because the negative publicity made them willing to avoid being associated with trans fats. Dr. Frieden said that restaurants in New York complied without too much fuss, because they found substitutes without too much additional cost, were given time to make the changes and taste was unchanged.
专家说，他们认为公司或餐馆不会强烈反对FDA的提议，这主要是因为反式脂肪受到了负面宣传，它们不愿意跟它扯上关系。弗里登博士说，纽约餐馆比较顺利地遵从了这个规定，因为它们没有追加太多成本就找到了替代品，而且有足够的时间来进行调整，此外还保持了食物的味道不变。
In a statement, the Grocery Manufacturers Association noted that food manufacturers had already voluntarily lowered the amounts of trans fats by more than 73 percent since 2005.
在一份声明中，美国食品杂货生产商协会(Grocery Manufacturers Association)指出，自2005年以来，食品制造商们已经自觉减少反式脂肪逾73％的产量。