Carol Doda, who was widely credited with triggering a nationwide topless revolution as a 26-year-old go-go dancer in 1964, died on Monday in San Francisco. She was 78.
1964年，24岁的go-go舞者卡萝尔·多达(Carol Doda)成了引发全国裸胸革命风潮的关键人物，她于11月9日在旧金山逝世，享年78岁。
Her death was confirmed by the St. Luke’s campus of California Pacific Medical Center. Friends said the cause was complications of kidney failure.
圣卢克校区内的加利福尼亚太平洋医疗中心确认了她的死讯，朋友们说死因是肾衰竭引发的并发症。
To understand the scandalousness of Ms. Doda’s precedent-setting impromptu performance in San Francisco, on June 19, 1964, consider that it was followed less than a month later in that same city by the Republican National Convention that nominated the conservative Barry Goldwater.
1964年6月19日，多达女士在旧金山的即兴表演开创了先河，想知道这次演出是多么惊世骇俗，就要知道这样的背景——演出不到一个月后，共和党全国大会便在同一座城市举行，会上提名了保守分子巴里·戈德华特(Barry Goldwater)做总统候选人。
Delegates flocked from the Cow Palace convention hall to the Condor Club in the North Beach neighborhood to see her act. As word spread, toplessness became a sensation in clubs and bars across the country.
代表们从奶牛宫的大会厅蜂拥而出，成群结队地来到北滩附近的神鹰俱乐部(Condor Club)看她表演。随着消息传开，半裸女郎开始在全国的夜店与酒吧蔓延，轰动一时。
The San Francisco newspaper columnist Herb Caen characterized Ms. Doda as “the Susan B. Anthony of this particular liberating movement.”
旧金山报纸专栏作家赫布·卡恩(Herb Caen)说多达女士是“这个特殊解放运动中的苏珊·B ·安东尼（Susan B. Anthony，在19世纪美国女性争取投票权的运动中扮演了关键角色的美国民权领袖——译注）”。
Ms. Doda, a platinum blonde, gained particular attention for injecting her breasts with enough silicone to expand her bra size to 44DD from 34B. The author Tom Wolfe gushed about them in his book “The Pump House Gang.”
多达有一头闪亮的金发，胸部曾注射大量硅胶，将胸围从34B增为44DD，因此更加引人瞩目。作家汤姆·伍尔夫(Tom Wolfe)在《水泵房团伙》(The Pump House Gang)一书中曾对她的乳房赞不绝口。
Earlier this year, Ms. Doda told the website babyboomerdaily.com, “I was the first to go topless in 1964 and started a sexual revolution that spun as fast as twirling tassels.”
今年年初，多达在接受babyboomerdaily.com网站采访时说，“1964年，我成了最早开始半裸跳舞的人，这成了一场性革命的开端，它和衣服上打转的流苏一样飞速旋转起来。”
In a 2009 interview with The San Francisco Chronicle, Ms. Doda, a former secretary and cocktail waitress, said: “The minute I knew I existed in life was the night I started the Condor thing. The only thing that mattered to me was entertaining people.”
多达女士在当舞者之前曾经做过秘书和酒吧招待，2009年，在接受《旧金山编年报》(The San Francisco Chronicle)采访时，她说，“就是在‘神鹰’跳舞的那一晚，我感受到自己的存在。对于我来说，最重要的就是娱乐人们。”
She underwent 44 surgical treatments (the number was “just a coincidence,” she said) in which emulsified silicone, the chief component of Silly Putty, was injected at a cost of about $12,000 in today’s dollars. The procedure has since been banned, but Ms. Doda, who began every day with a bowl of Wheaties, said she suffered no health complications.
她做过44次整形手术（她说，这个数字“只是个巧合”），其中包括花费1.2万美元（折合成今天的价格）的填充乳化硅胶（这是橡皮泥的主要成分）。这项手术现在已被禁止，但是每天早上都要吃一大碗麦片的多达说，自己没有任何健康问题。
Her bust was said to have been insured for $1.5 million.
据说，她为自己的胸部上了价值150万美元的保险。
The Condor was raided, but she was found not guilty of indecency according to community standards. She continued to bare her breasts nightly, eventually earning the equivalent of about $4,000 a week today.
后来神鹰俱乐部遭到查抄，根据旧金山的猥亵行为标准，她被判无罪。于是她继续夜复一夜裸露胸部起舞，最后收入高达每周4000美元（折合成今天的标准）。
Her example inspired Russ Meyer’s film “Mondo Topless.” She appeared (as Sally Silicone) in Bob Rafelson’s movie “Head” (1968), starring the Monkees. Ms. Doda went to further extremes, even going bottomless in 1968, until California ruled that women could not perform completely naked in clubs that served alcohol.
她的故事启发罗斯·梅尔(Russ Meyer)拍出影片《露乳传道》(Mondo Topless)。她亦曾在鲍勃·拉菲尔森(Bob Rafelson)1968年的影片《毛发》(Head)中亮相，饰演莎莉·西里科恩(Sally Silicone)，“猴子”(Monkees)乐队亦参演了该片。多达还做过更极端的事，1968年，她跳过全裸舞，直到加利福尼亚州规定女人不能在出售酒精饮料的俱乐部内全裸表演才作罢。
Carol Ann Doda was born in Solano County, in Northern California, on Aug. 29, 1937, and raised in San Francisco. Her parents divorced when she was 3.
卡萝尔·安·多达(Carol Ann Doda)于1937年8月29日生于北加利福尼亚的沙拉拿县，在旧金山长大，三岁那年父母离婚。
Ms. Doda told interviewers that she had dropped out of school and became a cocktail waitress at 14 before attending the San Francisco Art Institute. She never married, and there was no immediate word on survivors.
多达女士在接受采访时曾说，她14岁那年退学，跑去酒吧当招待，后来又进入旧金山艺术学院就读。她终生未婚，也没有在世家人的直接消息。
She found work singing at the Condor, where she would make a dramatic entrance dancing atop a white grand piano as it was lowered from the ceiling. She made her topless debut after Davey Rosenberg, the club’s publicist, proffered a “monokini” swimsuit by Rudi Gernreich, the avant-garde designer, and suggested, “Try this in the act.”
她最初是在神鹰俱乐部做唱歌的工作，登场时会颇为戏剧性地站在一架从天花板缓缓垂落下来的白色大钢琴上起舞。 一次，俱乐部的宣传戴维·罗森伯格(Davey Rosenberg)给了她一件前卫设计师鲁迪·格恩里希(Rudi Gernreich)设计的“无上装比基尼”(monokini)，建议她“演出时试试这个”。于是就有了她的第一次半裸舞蹈。
She continued dancing topless into the 1980s.
她的半裸舞蹈生涯一直持续到20世纪80年代。
Ms. Doda later started a rock band, the Lucky Stiffs, regularly appeared as a host on local cable television and ran a lingerie boutique in San Francisco.
后来，多达成立了一个摇滚乐队，名叫“幸运小人物”(Lucky Stiffs)，还经常在当地的有线台做主持人，在旧金山开了一家内衣精品店。
In 2009, when she was still dancing, fully clothed, at North Beach clubs, Ms. Doda told an interviewer, “The only way I’ll stop performing is when I can’t walk anymore, honey.”
2009年，她在北滩的俱乐部跳舞（不过是穿着衣服）时，曾对采访者说，“宝贝儿，只要我还能走路，就会一直表演下去。”