WASHINGTON — Congressional Republican leaders conceded defeat Wednesday in their budget fight with President Obama over the new health care law, agreeing to support a reopening of the government and a lifting of the nation’s borrowing authority in exchange for future budget negotiations.
华盛顿——周三，在与奥巴马总统围绕新医改法案展开的预算斗争中，国会共和党领袖做出妥协，同意支持政府重新开门，并提高美国的借款上限，以此换取未来的预算谈判。
Speaker John A. Boehner, the leader of conservative House Republicans whose push to strip money for the health law led to the shuttering of much of the government on Oct. 1, said that the House would not block a bipartisan agreement reached in the Senate that yielded virtually no concessions to the Republicans.
众议院议长、众议院共和党保守派的领袖约翰·A·博纳(John A.Boehner)表示，众议院不会阻止参议院达成的两党协议，该协议几乎没有向共和党做出任何让步。博纳曾大力推动取消资助医改法案的议案，导致美国许多政府部门在10月1日停摆。
“We fought the good fight,” Mr. Boehner said in an interview with the radio station WLW-AM in Cincinnati. “We just didn’t win.”
“我们打了一场漂亮仗，”博纳在接受辛辛那提WLW-AM电台的采访时说，“只不过没有赢而已。”
In a statement issued as the Senate and the House prepared to vote on the proposal, Mr. Boehner said: “The fight will continue. But blocking the bipartisan agreement reached today by members of the Senate will not be a tactic for us.”
在参众两院准备就两党协议举行投票之际，博纳发表声明说：“斗争将会继续。不过，封杀参议院今天达成的那项两党协议不会是我们的战术。”
The decision came about 24 hours before the Treasury was due to exhaust its borrowing authority, putting the nation on the brink of a default. Mr. Boehner had earlier told colleagues privately that he would not allow the nation to default.
这一决定距财政部(Treasury Department)借款权限告罄、美国走向违约边缘还有大约24小时。早些时候，博纳曾私下告诉同僚，他不会让美国违约。
The Senate is expected to vote on the bill Wednesday evening, with final passage coming late Wednesday or early Thursday.
参议院预计会在周三晚上对法案举行投票，并最终在周三晚上或周四早间宣布其获得通过。
Under the agreement, the government would be funded through Jan. 15, and the debt ceiling would be raised until Feb. 7. The Senate will take up a separate motion to instruct House and Senate negotiators to reach accord by Dec. 13 on a long-term blueprint for tax and spending policies over the next decade.
根据该协议，政府将获得资金，一直运行到1月15日，债务上限期限也将被延长到2月7日。参议院将单独提出一项动议，指示参众两院的谈判人员在12月13日之前就未来十年的税收和支出政策计划达成一致。
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, stressed that under the deal, which he negotiated with Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, budget cuts extracted in the 2011 fiscal showdown were not reversed, as some Democrats had wanted, a slim reed that not even he claimed as a significant victory.
肯塔基州参议员、共和党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)强调，根据他与内华达州参议员、多数派领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)通过谈判达成的前述协议，2011年财政较量中削减的预算不会得到恢复。这正是部分民主党人所希望的，就连麦康奈尔自己也没有称之为重大胜利。
The deal, Mr. McConnell said, “is far less than many of us hoped for, quite frankly, but far better than what some had sought.”
麦康奈尔说，该协议“坦率地说，远未满足我们当中许多人的希望，但也远好于一些人一直追求的结果”。
“It’s time for Republicans to unite behind other crucial goals,” he added.
“共和党人是时候为其他一些关键目标团结在一起了，”他补充说。
Chastened Senate Republicans said they hoped the outcome would be a learning experience for lawmakers in the House and the Senate who shut down the government in hopes of gutting Mr. Obama’s signature domestic achievement, the Affordable Care Act. Instead of using the twin deadlines of an end to government funding and borrowing authority to address the drivers of the federal deficit, conservatives focused on a law they could never undo as long as Mr. Obama is president, several senators said.
受了教训的参议院共和党人说，他们希望这一结果能为参众两院的某些议员提供一点学习经验，就是这些议员关闭了美国政府，试图以此破坏奥巴马的标志性国内政绩《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act) 。几位参议员说，保守派没有利用终结政府拨款和举债权限的双重期限来消除各种推高联邦赤字的因素，却把重心放在了废除一部法案上，与此同时，只要奥巴马还是总统，这部法案他们根本废除不了。
“We took some bread crumbs and left an entire meal on the table,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. “This has been a really bad two weeks for the Republican Party.”
南卡罗莱纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)说，“我们拿走了一些面包渣，却把整块肉留在了桌上。对共和党来说，过去两周真是糟糕透顶。”
Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina, took a swipe at Senators Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, as well as House members who linked further funding of the government to gutting the health care law, which is financed by its own designated revenues and spending cuts.
北卡罗莱纳州共和党参议员理查德·伯尔(Richard Burr)则归咎于得克萨斯州共和党人泰德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)、犹他州共和党人迈克·李(Mike Lee)，以及其他一些众议院成员，这些人把继续向政府拨款的决定和破坏医疗法案挂起钩来，而医改法案的资金源自政府的应得收入和支出削减。
“Let’s just say sometimes learning what can’t be accomplished is an important long-term thing,” Mr. Burr said, “and hopefully for some of the members they’ve learned it’s impossible to defund mandatory programs by shutting down the federal government.”
伯尔说，“这么说吧，有时候，了解什么事情无法做到是一件重要的长期任务。我希望某些议员已经搞明白，通过关闭联邦政府来取消资助法定法案是不可能的。”
But while Mr. Cruz conceded defeat, he did not express contrition.
不过，克鲁兹虽然承认失败，但却没有表达悔悟之情。
“Unfortunately, the Washington establishment is failing to listen to the American people,” he said as he emerged from a meeting of Senate Republicans called to ratify the agreement.
克鲁兹在参议院共和党呼吁批准协议的会议上现身时说，“不幸的是，美国政府没有听取本国人民的意见。”
Mr. Cruz promised not to use parliamentary tactics to block a final vote, raising hopes that the government will be opened and the debt ceiling will be lifted before Thursday, when the Treasury exhausts its borrowing authority.
克鲁兹承诺不动用议会战术阻止最终投票，带来了在周四之前重启政府及提高债务上限的希望。财政部的举债权限周四就会到期。
“From our side, I don’t see any evidence of delay,” said Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky and a Cruz ally.
克鲁兹的盟友、肯塔基州共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)说，“从我们这边来说，我没有看到任何拖延的迹象。”
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Obama supported the compromise reached by the Senate leaders, and he urged lawmakers in both chambers to pass it quickly.
白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)说，奥巴马支持参议院领袖达成的妥协，并且敦促参众两院议员迅速通过协议。
Mr. Carney said the agreement “achieves what’s necessary” to reopen the federal government after 16 days, and removes “the threat of economic brinksmanship” that raised the possibility of a government default.
卡尼说，协议为在停摆16天之后重启联邦政府“准备了充分的条件”，排除了“经济边缘策略构成的威胁”，正是这种策略导致了政府违约的风险。
“We leave parliamentary procedures to the Congress,” he said. “But we obviously hope that each house will be able to act swiftly. We are already on Day 16 of a wholly unnecessary shutdown of government.”
他说，“国会的议事程序由国会做主。不过，我们显然希望，参众两院都能迅速行动起来。到目前，毫无必要的政府停摆已经进入了第十六天。”