WASHINGTON — Justice Department lawyers will recommend that no civil rights charges be brought against the police officer involved in the fatal shooting of an unarmed teenager in Ferguson, Mo., after an F.B.I. investigation found no evidence to support charges, law enforcement officials said Wednesday.
华盛顿——在联邦调查局(FBI)的调查没有找到能支持指控的证据后，执法部门官员在周三表示，对于在密苏里州弗格森枪杀了一名未持械少年的警官，司法部(Justice Department)律师将建议不发起任何民权指控。
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and his civil rights chief, Vanita Gupta, will have the final say on whether the Justice Department will close the case against the officer, Darren Wilson. But it would be unusual for them to overrule the prosecutors on the case, who are still working on a legal memo explaining their recommendation.
司法部是否结束针对达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)警官的案件，最终决定权在司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)和他的民权主管瓦妮塔·古普塔(Vanita Gupta)手上。但通常来说他们不会驳回办案检察官的意见，本案检察官目前还在准备一份法律备忘录，以解释他们的建议依据。
A decision by the Justice Department would bring to an end to the politically charged investigation of Mr. Wilson in the shooting death of 18-year-old Michael Brown. Missouri authorities concluded their investigation into Mr. Brown’s death in November and also recommended against charges.
一旦司法部做出裁决，就意味着针对威尔逊枪杀18岁的迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)一案进行的充满政治意味的调查将告一段落。密苏里当局对布朗之死的调查于十一月结束，同样也不建议发起指控。
But a broader Justice Department civil rights investigation into allegations of discriminatory traffic stops and excessive force by the Ferguson Police Department remains open. That investigation could lead to significant changes at the department, which is overwhelmingly white despite serving a city that is mostly black.
但是针对弗格森警察局(Ferguson Police Department)歧视性交通截查和滥用武力的指控，司法部仍在进行一项更大范围的民权调查。该调查可能促使警察局做出重大改变，在这座多数人口为黑人的城市里，警员以白人为主。
Benjamin L. Crump, a lawyer for Mr. Brown’s family, said he did not want to comment on the investigation until the Justice Department made an official announcement.
代表布朗家人的律师本杰明·L·克伦普(Benjamin L. Crump)说，在司法部正式宣布决定前，他对调查不予置评。
“We’ve heard speculation on cases before that didn’t turn out to be true,” Mr. Crump said. “It’s too much to put the family through to respond to every rumor.”
“我们听过很多关于案子的猜测，事后发现不是真的，”克伦普说。“每一个传闻都要给反馈的话，就太折磨这一家人了。”
The lawyer for Mr. Wilson did not return calls for comment.
威尔逊的律师没有回复请求置评的电话。
Mr. Brown’s death touched off protests and violent clashes between demonstrators and heavily armed police in Ferguson. The incident, along with the death of Eric Garner — an unarmed black man who died after a chokehold by a New York police officer in July — sparked a nationwide discussion about policing, race and the use of deadly force.
布朗之死引发了抗议活动，示威者和全副武装的警察在弗格森发生暴力冲突。这起事件，再加上埃里克·加纳(Eric Garner)之死——一名未持械黑人男性在七月被一名纽约警官扼喉后死亡——触发了一场关于警察、种族和致命武力使用的全国大讨论。
President Obama, Mr. Holder and Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York, speaking about the issue in personal terms, said they understood the concern that minority neighborhoods had with the police. Those comments prompted rebukes from some law enforcement groups.
奥巴马总统、霍尔德和纽约市长白思豪(Bill de Blasio)就此事发表了个人看法，称他们明白少数族裔社区对警察问题的担忧。这些言论在一些执法部门团体中引起了不满。
Soon after the shooting, witnesses told reporters that Mr. Brown had his hands up in a gesture of surrender when he was shot and killed by Mr. Wilson on a city street.
在枪击后不久，目击者对记者说布朗当时在市内一条街上举着双手示意投降，但遭到威尔逊枪击并死亡。
The F.B.I. investigation, however, painted a murkier picture. Mr. Wilson told investigators that Mr. Brown tussled with him through the window of his police car and tried to grab his gun, an account supported by bruises and DNA evidence. Two shots were fired during that struggle.
然而FBI调查得出的案情经过却没那么清晰分明。威尔逊对调查人员说布朗穿过车窗和警车内的他发生扭打，并试图抢枪，身上的瘀伤和DNA证据证实了这一说法。扭打中威尔逊开了两枪。
What happened next as the confrontation moved into the street is in dispute. While some witnesses were adamant that Mr. Brown had his hands up, some recanted their stories. Mr. Wilson testified that Mr. Brown charged at him, and other witnesses backed up his account.
冲突转移到街道上后发生的事存在争议。有证人坚称布朗举起了双手，有的则收回了他们的说法。威尔逊在证词中说布朗曾冲向他，其他证人支持了他的供述。
“I’m backpedaling pretty good because I know if he reaches me, he’ll kill me,” Mr. Wilson told a state grand jury, in testimony that investigators said was consistent with what he told the F.B.I. “And he had started to lean forward as he got that close, like he was going to just tackle me, just go right through me,” Mr. Wilson said.
“我往后退得很快，因为我知道如果他赶上我，他会杀了我，”威尔逊对一个密苏里州大陪审团说，调查人员称他的证词和他对FBI的陈述是一致的。“然后，在他接近我的时候，身体前倾，好像是要直接把我撞倒，就那样直接冲过去，”威尔逊说。
Mr. Holder said that the Justice Department’s investigation into Mr. Brown’s death would be independent from the one conducted by local authorities. While the F.B.I. and local officials conducted some interviews together and shared evidence, the analysis and decision-making were separate. Mr. Holder resisted calls from local officials to announce his conclusion alongside the county prosecutor last year, in part because he did not want it to appear as if they had reached their decisions together.
霍尔德说司法部对布朗之死的调查是独立于地方当局的。FBI和地方官员共同进行了一些问讯并分享了证据，但分析和决策是分开的。地方官员去年呼吁霍尔德和县检察官一起宣布决定，被霍尔德回绝，原因之一是他不想让人觉得他们共同做出了决定。
Federal investigators interviewed more than 200 people and analyzed cellphone audio and video, the law enforcement officials said. Officer Wilson’s gun, clothing and other evidence were analyzed at the F.B.I.’s laboratory in Quantico, Va. Though the local authorities and Mr. Brown’s family conducted autopsies, Mr. Holder ordered a separate autopsy, which was conducted by pathologists from the Armed Forces Medical Examiner’s office at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware, the officials said.
执法部门官员说，联邦调查人员询问了200余人，分析了手机音频和视频。威尔逊的枪、衣服和其他证物被送往FBI在弗吉尼亚州匡蒂科的实验室分析。官员说，尽管当地官方和布朗家属已经安排过尸检，霍尔德还是下令进行独立的尸检，由特拉华州多佛尔空军基地(Dover Air Force Base)武装部队验尸官(Armed Forces Medical Examiner)办公室的病理学家负责。