WASHINGTON — The Pentagon said on Saturday that it had conducted its first strikes against Islamic State targets in a besieged Kurdish area of Syria along the Turkish border, destroying two armored vehicles in an area that has been the subject of a weeklong onslaught by the Islamic State.
华盛顿——五角大楼在周六称，他们已经对土耳其边境附近一个叙利亚库尔德地区内的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)目标发起了首次空袭，摧毁两辆装甲车。这个被围困的地区过去一周里一直受到伊斯兰国的猛攻。
The action around Kobani, where at least 150,000 refugees have crossed into Turkey, appeared to signify the opening of a new front for American airstrikes in Syria, and came on a day when several other strikes took place in Raqqa, the de facto headquarters of the Islamic State’s forces, and other sites in the eastern part of the country.
此前在科巴尼已经有15万难民越境进入土耳其，围绕该地区的行动看来意味着，美国在叙利亚境内开启了一道新的空袭前线。同一天，拉卡以及叙利亚东部其他一些地方也遭到数次空袭。拉卡是伊斯兰国武装力量实际上的总部所在地。
Symbolically, though, the modest strikes around Kobani demonstrated some American and Arab commitment to the direct defense of the Kurds in an area that, village by village, has been falling to Islamic State forces.
对科巴尼一带进行的小规模空袭具有象征意义，一定程度上表明美国和阿拉伯世界打算直接参与到库尔德人的防御行动中来，该地区此前在伊斯兰国的攻击下节节败退，村庄一个接一个地沦陷。
After days of pleading for air cover, Kurds watching the fighting were gleeful as jets roared overhead and two columns of smoke could be seen from another front miles away. They hoped it meant that American warplanes had finally come to their aid. One praised President Obama, using an honorific for a man who has made the Muslim pilgrimage to Mecca.
看着飞机从头顶掠过，两股浓烟在另一个空袭前线升起，几英里开外都能看到，连日来一直恳求空中支援的库尔德人无不欢呼雀跃。他们希望这意味着美国战机终于来帮助他们了。有人在赞颂奥巴马总统时，用上了只有去过麦加(Mecca)朝圣的穆斯林才能得到的敬称。
“Without Hajji Obama,” said Sheikh Mohammad Bozan, a Syrian Kurd, “we would all lose our heads.”
“没有哈吉奥巴马，”叙利亚库尔德人谢赫·莫哈迈德·博赞(Sheikh Mohammad Bozan)说，“我们可就都得掉脑袋了。”
Nearby, Syrian and Turkish Kurds cheered from hilltops dotted with fig and olive trees and army foxholes as Kurdish fighters scaled a ridge and fired a heavy machine gun mounted on a pickup truck at an Islamic State position less than a mile away. Islamic State fighters could be seen moving from a nearby village, but seemed to be shifting tactics in a hedge against airstrikes, moving one vehicle at a time.
叙利亚和土耳其库尔德人在附近的山顶上欢呼，这些山上零星点缀着无花果树、橄榄树和散兵坑，库尔德战斗人员爬上一处山脊，用装在皮卡上的一架重机枪向不到一英里开外的伊斯兰国阵地射击。可以看到附近一座村庄的伊斯兰国战斗人员正在转移，他们在空袭中似乎采取了比较保险的战术，一次只移动一辆车。
Nonetheless, on Saturday it was clear that Kurdish fighters were outgunned by the Islamic State militants, in fighting just a few hundred yards inside Syria and clearly visible from hilltop olive groves in Karaca, a frontier village on the Turkish side of the border. They fought with rocket-propelled grenades and heavy machine guns west of Kobani, the central town in the region.
不过，从周六的情况看，库尔德武装人员的火力显然逊于伊斯兰国，双方的战斗发生在叙利亚境内距土耳其边境仅几百码的地方，透过土耳其边境村庄卡拉卡山顶的橄榄树丛可以清楚地看到。在该地区的中心城镇科巴尼以西，他们在用火箭筒和重机枪对抗。
On the eastern front, a Kurdish activist, Mustafa Ebdi, said from Kobani that an Islamic State command post, a tank and a cannon had been hit by the American strike. Still, hours later, Islamic State shelling hit Kobani’s main town for the first time, killing at least two people.
身在科巴尼的库尔德活动人士穆斯塔法·埃博迪(Mustafa Ebdi)说，美国在东部前线的空袭击中了一个伊斯兰国指挥所、一辆坦克以及一座加农炮。然而几个小时后，科巴尼的主要城镇还是首次遭到了伊斯兰国的炮弹袭击，造成至少两人丧生。
In a statement, the United States Central Command said that strikes around the country had been carried out with forces from Saudi Arabia, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates — it did not specify which aircraft hit which areas — and that “all aircraft exited the strike areas safely.”
美军中央司令部(United States Central Command)的一份声明称，在叙利亚境内的空袭是与沙特阿拉伯、约旦和阿联酋的武装力量协同进行的——声明没有具体说明哪一国打击了哪个区域——“所有飞机都已安全离开打击区域”。
The administration has been eager to show that those three Arab countries, all dominated by Sunnis, are part of the effort against the Islamic State, which is also known as ISIS and ISIL.
在针对又名ISIS和ISIL的伊斯兰国的行动中，美国政府迫切想要展示这三个逊尼派穆斯林主导的阿拉伯国家在其中起到的作用。
The statement also said there were three airstrikes near Erbil, the capital of Iraq’s Kurdistan region, that destroyed four of the Islamic State’s armed vehicles and one of its fighting positions.
声明还表示，在伊拉克的库尔德斯坦地区首府阿尔贝拉附近也进行了三次空袭，摧毁四辆伊斯兰国装甲车以及它的一座阵地。
But for all the action in the air, it was unclear how much progress was being made. American strategists and retired officers like Gen. David H. Petraeus, the former commander of Centcom and an architect of the troop surge in Iraq in the latter years of the George W. Bush administration, have made clear that airstrikes alone, without coordinated ground attacks, may halt but are unlikely to reverse the Islamic State’s territorial gains.
然而，这些空中行动究竟取得了何种进展，目前尚不得而知。美国的军事家以及包括戴维·H·彼得雷乌斯上将(Gen. David H. Petraeus) 在内的退役军官明确表示，没有地面进攻配合的空袭也许能遏制伊斯兰国扩张地盘的势头，但却不太可能扭转局面。彼得雷乌斯是前中央司令部司令，也是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府后期增兵伊拉克计划的发起人。