The decision came down to this: Would people buy prosciutto from a guy named Herb from Iowa?
这个问题归根到底就是：人们会不会从爱荷华州一个名叫赫布(Herb)的人那里买熏火腿？
“It was a crazy idea, but we didn’t think it was a stupid idea,” says Herb Eckhouse, the Herb from Iowa who spent some anxious years weighing that question. Racks of raw pork rolling into the refrigerated chambers around him suggest the answer.
“这个想法有点疯狂，但是我们认为它并不愚蠢，”赫布·埃克豪斯(Herb Eckhouse)说。他就是艾奥瓦州的赫布。有好几年时间他都在焦虑地考虑那个问题。一个个放着生猪肉的货架被推入他周围的冷藏室，这一幕告诉了我们他的决定。
It is Wednesday, salting day, so Mr. Eckhouse is preoccupied with the central task of making his prosciutto: coating the carefully trimmed hind leg of a pig with sea salt. “This is kind of the key time, so we want to make sure it’s done right,” he says
今天是周三，是盐腌的日子，所以埃克豪斯一心想着制作熏火腿的这个主要工作：给仔细处理过的猪后腿肉涂上海盐。他说，“这差不多是最关键的一步，所以我们一定要做好。”
Mr. Eckhouse and his wife, Kathy, began producing La Quercia Prosciutto Americano eight years ago in a plant they built here, just south of Des Moines. The meat has drawn enthusiastic reviews and is on the menus of upscale restaurants and in shops in New York, Chicago and the Bay Area. Some Whole Foods Markets and Costco stores stock it.
8年前，埃克豪斯和他的妻子凯西(Kathy)在得梅因市南部建了一个工厂，开始生产“橡树”(La Quercia)牌美式熏火腿。这种熏火腿引发了热情的评论，出现在高档餐厅的菜单上以及纽约、芝加哥和旧金山湾区的商店里。有些全食超市(Whole Foods Markets)和科思科(Costco)商店也储备了这种熏火腿。
“I sell a ton of it,” said Paul Kahan, a Chicago restaurateur who shared this year’s James Beard Award for outstanding chef. Mr. Kahan met Mr. Eckhouse about 10 years ago at a benefit dinner in Des Moines, and later began using the prosciutto and other products.
“这个牌子的熏火腿我卖了1吨，”保罗·卡亨(Paul Kahan)说。他是芝加哥的一个餐馆老板，是其中一位获得今年詹姆斯·比尔德杰出厨师奖(James Beard Award)的人。卡亨和埃克豪斯是大约10年前在得梅因市的一个公益晚宴上认识的，后来卡亨开始使用埃克豪斯生产的熏火腿和其他一些肉制品。
Andrew Carmellini, the New York chef, said La Quercia’s is “the most amazing prosciutto I’ve ever seen outside Italy.” It’s on the menu at Mr. Carmellini’s Locanda Verde, and he uses the company’s pancetta at Lafayette, his new French restaurant.
纽约厨师安德鲁·卡尔梅利尼(Andrew Carmellini)说橡树牌熏火腿是“我在意大利之外见过的最好吃的熏火腿”。卡尔梅利尼的Locanda Verde餐厅的菜单上有这种熏火腿，他新开的法式餐厅Lafayette用的是该公司的烟肉。
Still, the Eckhouses, in hairnets and lab coats, fuss over details and patrol La Quercia’s cavernous curing rooms, unwilling to declare an unqualified victory.
埃克豪斯戴着发网，穿着实验袍，仍在为细节担心，在橡树公司巨大的腌制室里来回巡视，不希望发现任何不合格的地方。
Acorn-fed Tamworth pigs are their latest project. Because prosciutto has only two ingredients, pork and salt, it’s the breeding and feeding that produce distinctive flavor. (Making prosciutto is a relatively simple process: the pork is salted to remove water, refrigerated, then aged for months.)
用橡子喂养的塔姆沃思猪是他们最近的项目。因为熏火腿只有两种成分：猪肉和盐，所以要做出与众不同的好味道，只能靠猪的品种和饲养方式（制作熏火腿是个相对简单的过程：盐腌猪肉以去除水分，冷藏，然后陈化几个月）。
The couple hope to release their first batch of Tamworth prosciutto in December. By then, it will have aged for two years. A variety made from acorn-fed Berkshire pigs went to market last year.
这对夫妇希望第一批塔姆沃思熏火腿能在12月份上市。到那时候，它将已经陈化两年了。用以橡子喂养的巴克夏猪制作的一个品种去年上市了。
“We knew we were never going to be the biggest or the most efficient,” said Mr. Eckhouse, 64. “We were going to be small and make something very special.”
 “我们知道自己永远不会是最大或者效率最高的，”64岁的埃克豪斯说，“我们会是小规模的，但是会做出非常独特的东西。”
Nor was their goal to replicate Italian or Spanish prosciutto. “It would be American prosciutto,” he said. “The flavor is very rich, very sweet, very meaty.”
他们的目标也不是复制意大利或西班牙熏火腿。“它会是美式熏火腿，”他说，“它的口味是很浓、很甜、很香。”
From the beginning, the couple insisted on humane and healthy practices. They use no pork from pigs fed nontherapeutic antibiotics or raised in confinement pens in huge metal barns. They require that growers provide pigs space to congregate, a place to sleep in deep bedding and access to the outdoors.
这对夫妇从一开始就坚持健康的、人性化的方式。他们绝不选用喂食非治疗性抗生素的猪或者关在巨大的金属畜棚的围栏里养的猪。他们要求饲养者给猪提供能够聚集在一起的空间，让猪睡在厚厚的草垫上，让猪能够到户外活动。
The acorn-fed Tamworths are raised by Russell Kremer on 150 acres of woodland in the Ozark Mountains. Each fall, the pigs graze among the trees, consuming five or six varieties of acorns.
用橡子喂养的塔姆沃思猪是拉塞尔·克雷默(Russell Kremer)在欧扎克山脉一个占地150英亩的林场里喂养的。每年秋天，这些猪都会被放到林间觅食，吃五六种橡子。
The Eckhouses developed their taste for the thinly sliced, richly marbled cured ham during the 3 1/2 years they lived in Parma, Italy, where Mr. Eckhouse was the chief executive of the Italian subsidiary of what was then known as Pioneer Hi-Bred International, a Des Moines seed company. They lived an Italian life, sent their children to Italian preschools and ate prosciutto two or three times a week. “We didn’t learn anything about making it, but we learned about eating it,” he said.
埃克豪斯夫妇在意大利帕尔马住过3年半，那时候埃克豪斯是得梅因先锋良种公司(Pioneer Hi-Bred International)意大利子公司的主管。在这期间，他们喜欢上了这种切成薄片、有丰富大理石花纹的盐腌火腿。他们过着意大利式的生活，送孩子到意大利的幼儿园上学，每周吃两三次熏火腿。“我们完全没有学习制作那种火腿的方法，但是我们学会了怎么吃它，”他说。
When they returned to Iowa in 1989, they were struck by the beauty of the landscape, with crops “bursting out of the ground and the rich black soil,” he said. “You think: ‘This is amazing. What are we making here that we can be proud of? What are we making that shows that we really appreciate this bounty?’ ”
他说，1989年他们回到艾奥瓦州时，被那里的美景迷住了，庄稼“从肥沃的黑土地里冒出来”。“你会想：‘这太美了。在这里生产什么才能让自己引以为豪呢？生产什么才能表明我们真的感激大自然的慷慨呢？’”
Maybe, they said, they could make prosciutto. Most of their friends weren’t even sure what it was.
他们说，也许他们能生产熏火腿。他们的很多朋友甚至不太清楚那是什么东西。
Mr. Eckhouse left Pioneer in mid-2000 and spent the rest of that year preparing what his wife calls “his master’s thesis on prosciutto.” It was a practical, if hopeful, plan for making something new of a 2,000-year-old meat. They were inspired by the American evolution of other European products like cheese, wine and craft beer.
埃克豪斯在2000年年中的时候离开先锋良种公司，剩下的半年时间用来准备妻子所说的“熏火腿硕士论文”。熏火腿已经有2000年的历史了，想做出点新东西不容易，但埃克豪斯想出的是一个可行的、甚至是有前途的计划。他们是受到了美国改造其他欧洲产品的鼓舞，比如奶酪、红酒和精酿啤酒。
They named their new venture La Quercia (pronounced la KWAIR-cha), which means oak, a reference to the ancient oak savannas of Italy as well as the savannas of Iowa, where the oak is the state tree.
他们给新公司命名为La Quercia（发音是la KWAIR-cha），意思是橡树，既暗指意大利古老的热带橡树草原，也暗指艾奥瓦州的热带草原，橡树是艾奥瓦州的州树。
Still, Mr. Eckhouse’s credentials as Herb-the-hayseed-from-Iowa don’t hold up under close inspection. He grew up in Winnetka, an affluent North Shore suburb of Chicago, and graduated from Harvard, which he is careful never to mention. Mrs. Eckhouse, 63, was raised in Berkeley, Calif., and attended Idaho State University while she worked as a cowgirl on her aunt’s ranch. They met during his post-Harvard year as a ski bum, as he puts it.
不过，说埃克豪斯是“来自艾奥瓦州的乡巴佬赫布”实际上经不起仔细推敲。他在芝加哥北部富裕的湖滨郊区温内特卡(Winnetka)长大，毕业于哈佛大学，他总是很小心地从来不提后面这一点。63岁的埃克豪斯夫人在加利福尼亚州的伯克利长大，在艾奥瓦州立大学上学期间也在她姑姑（或姨妈）的农场里当女牛仔。他说他们是在他从哈佛毕业后在滑雪胜地打零工时认识的。
They worked for her aunt for a few years, during which Mr. Eckhouse, in an early sign of resourcefulness, came up with a project: They would buy a run-down log cabin and move it to the ranch. They lettered, numbered and color-coded the logs, reassembling them after the move. “He did the wiring,” Mrs. Eckhouse said. “He did everything but dig the well. You know how he did it? This is the thing that got me. He went to the library and checked books out. And I thought, ‘This guy really thinks he can do anything.’ ”
他们为她姑姑（或姨妈）工作了几年，在这期间，埃克豪斯就表现出了足智多谋的迹象，他想出了一个计划：买一个破旧的木屋，把它搬到农场里。他们给那些木头标上字母和数字，涂上颜色，搬进去以后重新组装。“他还装了电线，”埃克豪斯夫人说，“他什么都自己做，除了打井。你知道他是怎么做的吗？他去图书馆借书。这一点真让我佩服。我想，‘这家伙真的相信自己什么都能做到。’”
Still, the decision years later to go ahead with the prosciutto venture was “gut-wrenching,” Mr. Eckhouse said. “We put everything on the line.”
不过，埃克豪斯说，多年后决定是否要做熏火腿生意的时候他真是“左思右想”，“我们把一切都赌上了。”
They began at home, salting the meat and putting it in a refrigerator in the garage. Later they took the salt off and put the meat back in the refrigerator. When it was ready, it hung in the basement to age.
他们先在家里做，盐腌生肉，放到车库的冰箱里。过一段时间后把盐去掉，把肉放回冰箱里。再过一段时间，挂在地下室里陈化。
Ever the diligent student, Mr. Eckhouse began networking at food conventions. At the Fancy Food Show in San Francisco in 2001, he simply walked up to a vendor and asked, “So how does this work?” The woman, an experienced entrepreneur, became a valued mentor.
埃克豪斯像个最勤奋的学生，开始在食品大会上建立人际关系。在2001年的优质食品展(Fancy Food Show)上，他径直走向一个摊主，问道：“应该怎么运作公司？”那个女人是个有经验的企业家，成了他的良师益友。
It was that straightforward approach that got the attention of a skeptical Mr. Carmellini 10 years ago. Having never heard of Mr. Eckhouse, the chef ignored his request for a meeting before a hog-farmer appreciation dinner in Des Moines. “So it’s like: ‘Oh, my God, some guy’s going to bring me some homemade prosciutto. Who cares?’ ” Mr. Carmellini recalled.
10年前，正是这种直接的态度引起了一向持怀疑态度的卡尔梅利尼的注意。这位大厨从未听说过埃克豪斯，所以他没有理会埃克豪斯想要与他在得梅因市的一次养猪农夫答谢宴上会面的请求。“当时我的感觉是，‘哦，天哪，又有人要带给我一些自制的熏火腿了。谁在乎呀？’”卡尔梅利尼回忆说。
Mr. Eckhouse persisted. “Herb showed up and brought me the most amazing prosciutto I’ve ever seen outside Italy,” said Mr. Carmellini, who became La Quercia’s first New York customer. The acorn-fed hams, he said, have a hazelnut flavor and are less salty than most American prosciutto.
埃克豪斯坚持要见他。“赫布到场了，他带给我的熏火腿是我在意大利之外见过的最好吃的熏火腿，”卡尔梅利尼说。他成了橡树公司的第一位纽约客户。他说用以橡子喂养的猪做成的火腿有一种榛子味，没有大多数美式熏火腿那么咸。
Mr. Kahan, the James Beard Award winner, had a similar experience. During a benefit dinner in Des Moines, Mr. Eckhouse persuaded him to go to a parking garage to taste some prosciutto from a cooler in the trunk of his car. Mr. Kahan now serves it with homemade bread and a local goat butter at the Publican, one of his Chicago restaurants.
詹姆斯·比尔德杰出厨师奖获得者卡亨有着类似的经历。在得梅因市的一次公益宴会上，埃克豪斯劝他去停车场尝尝他汽车后备箱的冰箱里放的一些熏火腿。如今，卡亨在自己的一家芝加哥餐厅the Publican里把这种熏火腿与自制的面包和当地的山羊黄油搭配供应。
Back at La Quercia on salting day, a boom box blasted “Don Giovanni” into the din of the chilly center room, the fresh-meat work area. The Eckhouses were pitching in to help their work force, which has reached 30. “We started our careers working and doing things, and it feels like a good thing,” Mr. Eckhouse said.
回到“橡树公司”盐腌那天，音乐匣子里大声播放着《唐凡乔尼》(Don Giovanni)，与生肉工作区寒冷的中央工作室的喧闹相呼应。埃克豪斯夫妇也参与到30多个工人中间。“我们创业的时候都是自己亲手做，那感觉挺好的，”埃克豪斯说。
When they were done for the morning, they retreated to the front office, where two of the world’s most fortunate dogs, Molly and Coco Chanel, have spent their days since they were rescued from shelters. The dogs jumped to attention when the plant door opened, making clear that no visitors would enter until the bottoms of their shoes had been sniffed and licked. Once satisfied, they returned to their naps, reassured, perhaps, that heaven exists somewhere beyond that door, where the hallway is lined with bacon.
做完上午的工作后，他们回到前面的办公室，那里有世界上最幸运的两只狗，莫利和可可·香奈儿，它们被从救济所救回来后，白天就待在这里。工厂大门打开的时候，两只狗警觉地跳了起来，清楚地向客人表明，如果不让它们闻一闻、舔一舔他们的鞋底，他们就别想进去。一旦你满足了它们的愿望，他们就会回去接着小睡，也许它又放心了：天堂就在门里边的某个地方，那里的走道两边都挂着培根。
The plant was designed to mimic the four seasons, and approximate the way prosciutto was made two millenniums ago. Farm families in Italy killed the pigs in late November, salted the meat, then used the cold to help preserve it. Because salmonella, the enemy of all cured meats, thrives in a moist, warm environment, its growth was blocked.
工厂的设计模仿两千年前生产熏火腿时的四季和大致方法。意大利的农户在11月底把猪杀死，盐腌生肉，然后利用天气的寒冷来保存。因为所有腌肉的天敌沙门氏菌在温暖、潮湿的环境里才会滋生，所以寒冷的天气能阻止它们的生长。
“They used the whole pig one way or another, and they would feed their families,” Mr. Eckhouse said. “You salt it in the winter, dry it in the winter, then you’d warm it up in the springtime and kind of age it in the summer. That’s the way our building is laid out.”
“他们用不同的方法处理猪的各个部分，供家人食用，”埃克豪斯说，“在冬天盐腌、风干，在春天让它们变暖，在夏天让它们陈化。我们的工厂也是这么设计的。”
The hams are moved from chamber to chamber, each replicating a season and filled with equipment made in Italy. Computers control temperature and humidity. Specifics of the aging process (how long and at what temperatures) are secret.
火腿被从一个房间搬到另一个房间，每个房间模仿一个季节，里面放满了意大利生产的设备。电脑控制着温度和湿度。陈化过程的具体数据（多长时间、多高温度）是商业机密。
“If you ask a prosciutto person what they’re doing,” Mr. Eckhouse said, “they’re going to lie.”
“如果你问做熏火腿的人他们的制作方法，”埃克豪斯说，“他们会对你撒谎。”