WASHINGTON — With the federal government on the brink of a default, a House Republican effort to end the shutdown and extend the Treasury’s borrowing authority collapsed Tuesday night as a major credit agency warned that the United States was on the verge of a costly ratings downgrade.
华盛顿——美国联邦政府债务违约在即，一家大型信用评级机构警告称，美国的评级正处在降级边缘，它将为此付出高昂代价。而本周二晚上，众议院共和党试图结束政府停摆并延长财政部借款权限的努力却以失败告终。
After the failure of the House Republican leadership to find enough support for its latest proposal to end the fiscal crisis, the Senate’s Democratic and Republican leaders immediately restarted negotiations to find a bipartisan path forward, and one aide described an agreement as imminent. A spokesman for Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Mr. Reid was “optimistic that an agreement is within reach” with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.
众议院共和党领导层提出了结束财政危机的最新建议，但却未能获得足够多的支持。之后，参议院的民主党与共和党立即重新启动谈判，以便找到一条两党都赞同的前进道路。一名助手称，协议即将达成。参议院多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)的发言人表示，里德乐观地认为，他和共和党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)之间的“协议是可以企及的”。
With so little time left, chances rose that a resolution would not be approved by Congress and sent to President Obama before Thursday, when the government is left with only its cash on hand to pay the nation’s bills.
剩下的时间非常有限，决议无法在周四之前得到国会批准并送交奥巴马总统的可能性已经增加，而这时，政府只剩下手头的一些现金来支付联邦的账单了。
“It’s very, very serious,” warned Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. “Republicans have to understand we have lost this battle, as I predicted weeks ago, that we would not be able to win because we were demanding something that was not achievable.”
“情况非常、非常严重，”亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)警告说，“共和党人必须明白，我们已经输掉了这场战斗，正如我几周前预测的，我们赢不了，因为我们要求的是一件无法达成的事。”
A day that was supposed to bring Washington to the edge of resolving the fiscal showdown instead seemed to bring chaos and retrenching. And a bitter fight that had begun over stripping money from the president’s signature health care law had essentially descended in the House into one over whether lawmakers and their staff members would pay the full cost of their health insurance premiums, unlike most workers at American companies, and how to restrict the administration from using flexibility to extend the debt limit beyond a fixed deadline.
人们原本以为，本周二，华盛顿已经处在了解决财政僵局的边缘，但这一天似乎却预示着混乱和节衣缩食。这场尖锐的争论，最初的焦点是给奥巴马标志性的医保法案削减经费，但在众议院里，争论的议题实质上已经降格为议员及其工作人员，是否应该有别于在企业工作的大多数就业者，需要全额支付自己的医疗保险保费，以及如何限制行政部门利用灵活性，在最后期限后设法抬高债务上限。
Even so, the House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, and his leadership team failed in repeated, daylong attempts to bring their troops behind any bill that would reopen the government and extend the Treasury’s debt limit on terms significantly reduced from their original push against funding for the health care law. The House’s hard-core conservatives and some more pragmatic Republicans were nearing open revolt, and the leadership was forced twice to back away from proposals it had floated, the second time sending lawmakers home for the night to await a decision on how to proceed Wednesday.
尽管如此，众议院议长、俄亥俄州共和党人约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)和他的领导团队一整天都在反复尝试，希望部下支持一项重开政府、提高财政部举债上限，但交换条件与最初反对为医改法案提供资金的立场相比大打折扣的提案。然而众议院里坚定的保守派和一些较为务实的共和党人差一点就公开反叛，领导层被迫两度放弃自己拿出的提案，当晚第二次出现这种情况后，议员们回家过夜，等候关于周三如何继续议事的决定。
“We’re trying to find a way through it,” said Representative Greg Walden of Oregon, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, emerging from Mr. Boehner’s office to announce that no votes would be held Tuesday night.
“我们正在想办法解决。”共和党国会议员全国委员会(National Republican Congressional Committee)主席格雷格·沃尔登(Greg Walden)说。他从博纳的办公室出来，宣布周二晚上不会进行表决。
The House setback returned the focus to the Senate, where the leadership had suspended talks after the Senate Republican leadership opted to give the House a chance to produce an alternative to the Senate measure taking shape.
在众议院遭受挫折之后，焦点又转回到了参议院。之前参议院的领导层暂停了会谈，因为参议院共和党领导层决定给众议院一个机会，为参议院正在制定的措施提供一个替代方案。
Under the emerging Senate deal, the government would be funded through Jan. 15 and the debt limit extended until Feb. 7. House and Senate negotiators would be required to reach accord on a detailed tax-and-spending blueprint for the next decade by Dec. 13. A proposal to delay the imposition of a tax on medical devices had been dropped from the deal, as had a complicated tax on self-insured unions and businesses participating in the health care exchanges. All that remained for Republicans was language tightening income verification for people seeking subsidies on the insurance exchanges, but that language was still being negotiated. 
根据参议院即将达成的共识，政府在1月15日之前将继续得到资金，债务上限问题则延期至2月7日。参众两院的谈判者们需要在12月13日之前，就未来10年税收和开支的详尽蓝图达成一致。推迟对医疗设备征税的提议已经从共识中删除，一同删除的还有针对参与医保交易所的自行保险的工会和企业征收一项繁琐税目的计划。条文中唯一留给共和党人的，就是对在保险交易所购买保险时申请保费补贴的人，进行更严格的收入核实，但具体的表述仍在谈判之中。
It remained unclear if the Senate plan could pass the House or even if Mr. Boehner would bring it forward for a vote. The hopes for a resolution by Thursday also appeared to rest with the senators who had begun the failed movement to tie any further government funding to the gutting of the Affordable Care Act: Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and Mike Lee, Republican of Utah.
目前还不清楚参议院的方案能否在众议院得到通过，甚至连博纳是否会让众议院进行表决也不清楚。周四之前能否产生决议似乎也同样掌握在一些参议员手中，这些参议员曾经徒劳地试图把削弱《平价医疗法案》(Affordable Care Act)当成给政府出资的前提条件，包括德克萨斯州共和党人特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和犹他州共和党人迈克·李(Mike Lee)。
If Mr. Reid and Mr. McConnell reach a final accord, Senate leaders expect to use a parliamentary maneuver that will allow the majority leader to quickly move the deal to the Senate floor on Wednesday. With unanimous consent, a final vote would come the same day. But if Senate hard-liners object, the Senate would have to wait until Friday, then muster 60 votes to cut off debate. Further obstruction would mean the final vote would happen Saturday, when the bill would go back to the House, where it would probably have to pass with overwhelming Democratic support and the votes of a minority of Republicans.
如果里德和麦康奈尔最终达成共识，参议院的领袖们预计将在国会斡旋，进而允许里德在周三迅速将该项共识交给参议员讨论。如果参议院一致通过，同一天将举行最终表决。但如果参议院的强硬派反对，参议院就需要等到周五，届时再获得60张选票停止辩论。如果再遇到阻碍，就意味着最终的投票将于周六进行，届时，这份提案将回到众议院，到时需要民主党人压倒性的支持和少数共和党人的支持才能通过。
Given the progress that had been made in the Senate, Congressional Democrats and officials at the White House criticized Mr. Boehner’s move on Tuesday as an attempt to sabotage the bipartisan Senate talks even as they seemed to be nearing an agreement.
鉴于参议院已经取得的进展，国会民主党人和白宫官员周二谴责了博纳的举动，称在两党已经接近达成一致之际，此举是在试图破坏参议院的两党谈判。
In the midst of the turmoil, the credit rating agency Fitch put the United States on a "negative ratings watch,” warning that Congressional intransigence has put the full faith and credit of the government at risk.
在局面混乱之际，信用评级机构惠誉(Fitch)将美国的评级列入“负面观察名单”，并警告说，国会的顽固已经将美国政府的全部信用置于风险之中。
The news came as the Treasury Department said it had only about $35 billion in cash on hand. It expects to run out of “extraordinary measures” to keep on paying all of the government’s bills on Thursday, at which point outgoing payments might exceed that cash, plus any revenues, on any day going forward.
惠誉发布上述消息的同时，财政部表示，手头仅剩350亿美元的现金。财政部预计，继续支付政府的所有开销，到周四将穷尽所有“非常手段”，以至于在未来的日子，这些现金加上任何收入都无法支付政府的开销。
As the United States nears default, investors have demanded more compensation for lending to the government, with yields on short-term debt spiking to their highest levels in years.
随着美国政府越来越接近债务违约，投资者也在要求，借钱给政府应当获得更多补偿。短期国债的收益率飙升到了多年以来的最高水平。
Fitch warned that Congress has not “raised the federal debt ceiling in a timely manner.” It said it “continues to believe that the debt ceiling will be raised soon,” but that "political brinkmanship and reduced financing flexibility could increase the risk of a U.S. default.”
惠誉警告说，美国国会“没有及时地提高联邦债务上限”。惠誉说，该机构“仍然相信债务上限将很快提高”，但是“政界在危机边缘角力的做法，以及融资灵活性的降低，将会加大美国债务违约的风险”。