This may be the way the world ends — not with a bang but with a temper tantrum.
这或许是世界末日来临的方式，伴随着的不是大爆炸，而是耍性子。
O.K., a temporary government shutdown — which became almost inevitable after Saturday’s House vote to provide government funding only on unacceptable conditions — wouldn’t be the end of the world. But a U.S. government default, which will happen unless Congress raises the debt ceiling soon, might cause financial catastrophe. Unfortunately, many Republicans either don’t understand this or don’t care.
众议院上周六的表决显示，只有在不可接受的条件得到满足之后，才会给政府提供经费，政府关门由此变得近乎不可避免。好吧，暂时停摆并不是世界末日。不过，美国政府违约却可能导致金融灾难。除非国会立即提高美国的举债上限，违约是一定会出现的。不幸的是，许多共和党人既不明白也不在乎。
Let’s talk first about the economics.
我们首先谈谈经济问题。
After the government shutdowns of 1995 and 1996 many observers concluded that such events, while clearly bad, aren’t catastrophes: essential services continue, and the result is a major nuisance but no lasting harm. That’s still partly true, but it’s important to note that the Clinton-era shutdowns took place against the background of a booming economy. Today we have a weak economy, with falling government spending one main cause of that weakness. A shutdown would amount to a further economic hit, which could become a big deal if the shutdown went on for a long time.
1995年到1996年间的政府停摆事件之后，许多观察人士得出结论，这种事虽说显然很糟糕，但也并非灾难：核心服务得以延续，而结果是让大家不胜其烦，但并没有产生长期危害。这么说仍然有一定的道理，不过需要指出的是，克林顿(Clinton)时期的停摆发生在经济繁荣的背景下。现如今，我们经济疲软，而政府开支的日益缩减正是疲软的一个主要原因。停摆相当于进一步打击经济，如果延续较长时间，可能演变成大问题。
Still, a government shutdown looks benign compared with the possibility that Congress might refuse to raise the debt ceiling.
虽说如此，比起国会拒绝提高举债上限的可能性，政府停摆看来并不致命。
First of all, hitting the ceiling would force a huge, immediate spending cut, almost surely pushing America back into recession. Beyond that, failure to raise the ceiling would mean missed payments on existing U.S. government debt. And that might have terrifying consequences.
首先，触及举债上限会导致巨额的开支削减立即强制生效，几乎肯定会把美国打回经济衰退之中。此外，不提高举债上限还将意味着，现有的美国国债不能按期偿还。而这可能会引发骇人的后果。
Why? Financial markets have long treated U.S. bonds as the ultimate safe asset; the assumption that America will always honor its debts is the bedrock on which the world financial system rests. In particular, Treasury bills — short-term U.S. bonds — are what investors demand when they want absolutely solid collateral against loans. Treasury bills are so essential for this role that in times of severe stress they sometimes pay slightly negative interest rates, that is, they’re treated as being better than cash.
原因何在？长期以来，金融市场一直将美国国债视为终极的安全资产；美国有债必偿的假定是世界金融体系的基石。尤其是，当投资者希望就其借贷获得一种绝对可靠的抵押品的时候，就会产生对短期国库券——即短期国债的需求。短期国库券扮演的这一角色至关重要，以致于在经济严重萧条时期，它们偶尔会有略低于零的负收益率，也就是说，它们被视为比现金还好。
Now suppose it became clear that U.S. bonds weren’t safe, that America couldn’t be counted on to honor its debts after all. Suddenly, the whole system would be disrupted. Maybe, if we were lucky, financial institutions would quickly cobble together alternative arrangements. But it looks quite possible that default would create a huge financial crisis, dwarfing the crisis set off by the failure of Lehman Brothers five years ago.
现在设想一下，美国国债变得不安全了，竟然没法指望美国有债必偿了。突然之间，整个体系将陷入混乱之中。如果我们运气好的话，各大金融机构或许会匆匆拼凑出替代机制。不过，看似很可能的是，违约将造成巨大的金融危机，让五年前由雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产触发的危机相形见绌。
No sane political system would run this kind of risk. But we don’t have a sane political system; we have a system in which a substantial number of Republicans believe that they can force President Obama to cancel health reform by threatening a government shutdown, a debt default, or both, and in which Republican leaders who know better are afraid to level with the party’s delusional wing. For they are delusional, about both the economics and the politics.
任何正常的政治体制都不会冒这样的风险。但我们没有正常的政治体制。我们有的体制是，一大群共和党人认为，他们可以迫使奥巴马总统放弃医保改革，方法是以政府停摆、债务违约，或两者一起，来进行要挟。而且在这样的体制里，有头脑的共和党领导层害怕与党内患有妄想症的那派人实话实说。因为他们患有的妄想症，不仅是在经济方面，也在政治方面。
On the economics: Republican radicals generally reject the scientific consensus on climate change; many of them reject the theory of evolution, too. So why expect them to believe expert warnings about the dangers of default? Sure enough, they don’t: the G.O.P. caucus contains a significant number of “default deniers,” who simply dismiss warnings about the dangers of failing to honor our debts.
在经济上：共和党激进派普遍排斥气候变化的科学共识；其中不少人也排斥进化论。那么，为什么还要指望他们相信专家发出的有关违约危险的警告呢？的确，他们不相信：共和党议员中有一大批“否认违约者”，他们对不偿债的种种危险置若罔闻。
Meanwhile, on the politics, reasonable people know that Mr. Obama can’t and won’t let himself be blackmailed in this way, and not just because health reform is his key policy legacy. After all, once he starts making concessions to people who threaten to blow up the world economy unless they get what they want, he might as well tear up the Constitution. But Republican radicals — and even some leaders — still insist that Mr. Obama will cave in to their demands.
另一方面，在政治上，明理的人都知道，奥巴马不能也不会允许自己被这样要挟，原因不仅在于医保改革是他主要的政治遗产。毕竟，一旦他开始做出让步，顺从了那些为了一遂心愿而威胁毁掉世界经济的人，他还不如把宪法给撕了。可是共和党激进派，乃至一些党内领袖，仍然坚持，奥巴马会屈服于他们的要求。
So how does this end? The votes to fund the government and raise the debt ceiling are there, and always have been: every Democrat in the House would vote for the necessary measures, and so would enough Republicans. The problem is that G.O.P. leaders, fearing the wrath of the radicals, haven’t been willing to allow such votes. What would change their minds?
那么，此事如何收场呢？给政府拨款并提高举债上限所需的票数已经够了，其实一直就够：每个民主党众议员都会给必需的提案投赞成票，也有足够人数的共和党人会这样做。问题在于，共和党领导层惧怕激进派的怒火，一直不愿给此类投票放行。有什么可以让他们转变心意吗？
Ironically, considering who got us into our economic mess, the most plausible answer is that Wall Street will come to the rescue — that the big money will tell Republican leaders that they have to put an end to the nonsense.
具有讽刺意味的是——想想当初是谁让我们陷入经济困境的吧–—最有可能的答案是华尔街前来救驾。大财阀会告诉共和党领导层，他们必须结束这种无理取闹。
But what if even the plutocrats lack the power to rein in the radicals? In that case, Mr. Obama will either let default happen or find some way of defying the blackmailers, trading a financial crisis for a constitutional crisis.
可是，要是连财阀们也无力控制激进派呢？在这种情况下，奥巴马要么允许违约发生，要么找到某种途径反抗要挟，拿宪法危机交换金融危机。
This all sounds crazy, because it is. But the craziness, ultimately, resides not in the situation but in the minds of our politicians and the people who vote for them. Default is not in our stars, but in ourselves.
这一切听起来很疯狂，因为事实的确如此。不过说到底，疯狂的不是形势，而是我们政客的想法，以及给他们投票的人。违约的不是美国，而是我们自己。