Stacey Calvin spends almost as much time commuting to her job — on a bus, two trains and another bus — as she does working part-time at a day care center. She knows exactly where to board the train and which stairwells to use at the stations so that she has the best chance of getting to work on time in the morning and making it home to greet her three children after school.
斯塔塞·卡尔文(Stacey Calvin)在上班路上所花的时间几乎和她在日托中心做兼职的工作时间差不多。她要先坐巴士，再转两趟火车，然后再坐巴士才能到。她非常清楚到哪里上火车、用车站里的哪个楼梯，才能保证在早晨按时抵达工作地点或按时到家迎接三个放学的孩子。
“It’s a science you just have to perfect over time,” said Ms. Calvin, 37.
37岁的卡尔文说，“这种技巧必须经过一定时间才能熟练掌握。”
Her four-hour round-trip stems largely from the economic geography of Atlanta, which is one of America’s most affluent metropolitan areas yet also one of the most physically divided by income. The low-income neighborhoods here often stretch for miles, with rows of houses and low-slung apartments, interrupted by the occasional strip mall, and lacking much in the way of good-paying job opportunities.
她之所以来回要花四个小时，很大程度上是因为亚特兰大的经济地形。亚特兰大是美国最富裕的大都市之一，也是收入差异在地理分布上反映最明显的地方。当地的低收入社区往往绵延数英里，路边可以看到一排排独栋住宅和低矮的公寓楼，偶尔会出现一排商店，而且很少有报酬较高的工作机会。
This geography appears to play a major role in making Atlanta one of the metropolitan areas where it is most difficult for lower-income households to rise into the middle class and beyond, according to a new study that other researchers are calling the most detailed portrait yet of income mobility in the United States.
与很多大都市一样，亚特兰大的低收入家庭也很难升入中产及以上阶层。一项新研究表明，在亚特兰大，地形分布起了很大的作用。其他研究人员认为，这是目前对美国收入流动性描述最具体的一份研究。
The study — based on millions of anonymous earnings records and being released this week by a team of top academic economists — is the first with enough data to compare upward mobility across metropolitan areas. These comparisons provide some of the most powerful evidence yet about the factors that seem to drive people’s chances of rising beyond the station of their birth, including education, family structure and the economic layout of metropolitan areas.
一组顶尖的从事学术研究的经济学家本周发布了这份以数百万份匿名收入记录为基础的研究报告，它也是第一个有足够数据来对比不同大都市向上流动性的研究。这些对比提供了一些目前最为有力的证据，揭露出的一些因素看来能增加人们突破自己出生地位的机会，出生地位包括教育、家庭结构，以及所处大都市的经济布局。
Climbing the income ladder occurs less often in the Southeast and industrial Midwest, the data shows, with the odds notably low in Atlanta, Charlotte, Memphis, Raleigh, Indianapolis, Cincinnati and Columbus. By contrast, some of the highest rates occur in the Northeast, Great Plains, and West, including in New York, Boston, Salt Lake City, Pittsburgh, Seattle and large swaths of California and Minnesota.
数据表明，在东南地区和中西部工业区，提高收入层次的几率较低，其中亚特兰大、夏洛特、孟菲斯、罗利、印第安纳波利斯、辛辛那提和哥伦布的几率尤低。比较而言，最高几率往往出现在东北部、大平原和西部地区，其中包括纽约、波士顿、盐湖城、匹兹堡、西雅图，以及加利福尼亚州和明尼苏达州的大片地区。
“Where you grow up matters,” said Nathaniel Hendren, a Harvard economist and one of the study’s authors. “There is tremendous variation across the U.S. in the extent to which kids can rise out of poverty.”
“这与你成长的地方有关，”哈佛大学(Harvard)经济学家及该研究报告的作者之一纳撒尼尔·亨德伦(Nathaniel Hendren)说。“孩子们能从多大程度上脱离贫困，在美国各地的差别非常大。”
That variation does not stem simply from the fact that some areas have higher average incomes: Upward mobility rates, Mr. Hendren added, often differ sharply in areas where average income is similar, like Atlanta and Seattle.
这些差异不仅是因为某些地区的平均收入较高：亨德伦补充道，在平均收入比较接近的地区，比如亚特兰大和西雅图，向上流动的几率通常也存在显著差异。
The gaps can be stark. A fairly poor child in Seattle – one who grew up in the 25th percentile of the national income distribution – can expect when they are grown to do as well financially as a middle-class child – one who grew up at the 50th percentile – from Atlanta.
这种差距可能会非常明显。例如，西雅图一个相当贫穷的孩子——成长于在国民收入中处于后25%的家庭——长大后在收入方面的表现有可能会与亚特兰大中产阶级家庭的孩子——成长于在国民收入中处于中等水平的家庭——表现相当。
The team of researchers initially analyzed an enormous database of earnings records to study tax policy, hypothesizing that different local and state tax breaks might affect intergenerational mobility.
在假设不同地方和州的减税政策会对代际流动性造成影响的情况下，为了研究税收政策，这些研究员首先分析了大量的收入记录数据。
What they found surprised them, said Raj Chetty, one of the authors and the most recent winner of the John Bates Clark Medal, given to the country’s best academic economist under the age of 40.
研究报告的作者之一、最近获得约翰·贝茨·克拉克奖(John Bates Clark Medal)的拉杰·切蒂(Raj Chetty)说，研究结果令他们颇为震惊。该奖项是为美国40岁以下的最佳理论经济学家所设置的。
The researchers concluded that larger tax credits for the poor and higher taxes on the affluent seemed to improve income mobility only slightly. The economists also found only modest or no correlation between mobility and the number of local colleges and their tuition rates or between mobility and the amount of extreme wealth in a region.
研究人员认为，穷人享有更大额度的税收抵免和富人承受更多税负，对改善收入流动性的作用看来很小。这些经济学家还发现，收入流动性与当地大学数量及其学费的相关性微乎其微，而且收入流动性与当地极富裕人数的相关性也是如此。
But the researchers identified four broad factors that appeared to affect income mobility, including the size and dispersion of the local middle class. All else being equal, upward mobility tended to be higher in metropolitan areas where poor families were more dispersed among mixed-income neighborhoods.
然而，研究人员指出了四种看来会普遍影响收入流动性的因素，其中包括当地中产阶级的规模和分布。在其他条件相同的情况下，如果大都市的贫穷家庭分布在收入阶层混合社区的程度越高，这些地区的向上流动性就越强。
Income mobility was also higher in areas with more two-parent households, better elementary schools and high schools, and more civic engagement, including membership in religious and community groups.
在双亲家庭更多、小学和中学更好、公民参与程度更高（包括参加宗教和社区组织）的地区，收入流动性也会更高。
The authors emphasize that their data allowed them to identify only correlation, not causation. Other economists said that future studies will be important for sorting through the patterns in this new data.
该研究的作者强调，他们的数据只能让他们发现其中的相关性，而非因果关系。其他一些经济学家则表示，要从这些新数据中梳理出模式，未来的研究很重要。
Still, earlier studies have already found that education and family structure have a large effect on the chances that children escape poverty. Other researchers have also argued that social connections play an important role in a community’s success.
但先前的研究已经发现，教育和家庭结构对孩子脱离贫困的机会有很大影响。其他一些研究人员也表示，社会关系在一个社区的成功中起着重要作用。
Income mobility has become one of the hottest topics in economics, as both liberals and conservatives have grown worried about diminished opportunities following more than a decade of disappointing economic growth. After years of focusing more on inequality at a moment in time, economists have more recently turned their attention to people’s paths over their lifetimes.
收入流动性已经成了经济学领域最热门的话题之一，因为经济增长连续十多年令人失望之后，自由派和保守派均已开始为工作机会的减少担心。在多年从某一时段的情况来研究不平等现象后，经济学家最近已把注意力转向了人们一生的发展轨迹。
Polls show that Americans are worried about whether living standards will rise for most people in coming decades, as they have for nearly all of the nation’s history.
民意调查显示，美国人担心的是，在未来几十年，大多数人的生活水平会不会提高，就像在几乎整个美国历史上表现出的那样。
In previous studies of mobility, economists have found that a smaller percentage of people escape childhood poverty in the United States than in several other rich countries, including Canada, Australia, France, Germany and Japan. The latest study is consistent with those findings.
在之前有关流动性的研究中，经济学家发现，美国脱离童年贫困的人口比例低于包括加拿大、澳大利亚、法国、德国和日本在内的一些富裕国家。这项最新研究同那些结论一致。
Yet the parts of this country with the highest mobility rates — like Pittsburgh, Seattle and Salt Lake City — have rates roughly as high as those in Denmark and Norway, two countries at the top of the international mobility rankings. In areas like Atlanta and Memphis, by comparison, upward mobility appears to be substantially lower than in any other rich country, Mr. Chetty said.
但美国流动几率最高的地方，比如匹兹堡、西雅图和盐湖城，它们的几率同全球流动性排名最靠前的丹麦和挪威大致一般高。切蒂表示，相比之下，在像亚特兰大和孟菲斯这样的地区，向上流动的几率似乎远远低于其他任何一个富裕国家。
Especially intriguing, Mr. Chetty said, is the fact that children who moved at a young age from a low-mobility area to a high-mobility area did almost as well as those who spent their entire childhoods in a higher-mobility area. But children who moved as teenagers did less well.
切蒂说，特别有意思的是，在幼年时就从流动几率低的地区搬到流动几率高的地区的孩子，表现得几乎和那些在流动几率较高地区度过整个童年的人一样好。但青少年时搬家的孩子的表现则没那么好。
That pattern makes economists more confident that the characteristics of different regions — as opposed to something inherent and unchangeable in the local residents — are helping cause the varying mobility rates.
是地域特点，而不是当地居民与生俱来、无法改变的东西促成不同的流动几率，这种模式让经济学家们对这一点更加自信。
Lawrence Katz, a labor economist who did not work on the project, said he was struck by the fact that areas with high levels of income mobility were also those that established high school earliest and have long had strong school systems.
未参与此项研究的劳动经济学家劳伦斯·卡茨(Lawrence Katz)表示，一个事实让他震惊，收入流动几率高的地区也同样是那些最早开设高中且长期以来有着强有力的学校体系的地区。
The comparison of metropolitan areas allows researchers to consider local factors that previous mobility studies could not — including a region’s geography. And in Atlanta, the most common lament seems to be precisely that concentrated poverty, extensive traffic and a weak public-transit system make it difficult to get to the job opportunities. “When poor communities are segregated,” said Cindia Cameron, an organizer for 9 to 5, a women’s rights group, “everything about life is harder.”
对都市地区进行的比较让研究人员能考虑之前的流动性研究中未能考虑的地方因素，包括一个地区的地形。而且，在亚特兰大，最常见的抱怨似乎恰恰就是贫困的集中化、路途的遥远和脆弱的公共运输系统，是这些让人们难以获得工作机会。“当贫穷社区被隔离起来时，”妇女权益组织“朝九晚五”(9 to 5)的组织者辛迪亚·卡梅伦(Cindia Cameron)说，“和生活有关的一切都更难了。”