Talk of doing away with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is still just that — talk. But as Congress considers whether and how to get rid of these agencies, consumers ought to be aware of how a substantial reduction in the government’s role in housing finance could affect their ability to borrow in the future.
取消房利美(Fannie Mae)和房地美(Freddie Mac)的风声，目前还只是风声而已。但在国会考虑是否以及如何取消“两房”的同时，消费者也应警惕，一旦政府介入住房金融市场的程度显著降低，消费者将来的借贷能力或将大受影响。
“What’s at stake here is access to mortgages at an affordable price,” said Julia Gordon, the director of housing finance and policy at the Center for American Progress in Washington.
“消费者可能面临无法获得担付得起的抵押贷款的风险，”位于华盛顿的美国进步中心(Center for American Progress)住房金融与政策主任朱莉娅·戈登(Julia Gordon)表示。
Fannie and Freddie have been much maligned since their heavy investment in risky loans resulted in a $188-billion taxpayer bailout during the financial crisis. Having since refocused on guaranteeing and securitizing prime mortgages, while also acting as a fill-in for fleeing private capital, the agencies now own or guarantee a majority of the country’s home loans.
房利美和房地美近年来饱受诟病，因为“两房”曾大量投资高风险贷款，结果在金融危机期间让纳税人掏了1880亿美元（约合人民币11504亿元）的救助金。此后，“两房”吸取教训，专注于针对优质抵押贷款(Prime Mortgage)的担保和保障，同时也发挥填补私人资本逃离所致亏空的作用。目前，“两房”持有或担保着美国的大多数住房抵押贷款。
As the housing market strengthens, Congress is interested in transferring some or all of that risk back to the private sector. Last month, President Obama voiced support for a bipartisan effort in the Senate to replace the government-sponsored agencies with a new agency with a much-reduced role.
随着住房市场渐渐复苏，国会拟将部分或所有风险重新转移给私营部门。上个月（2013年8月——译注），奥巴马总统表态支持参议院两党的提议，逐步取消政府担保的“两房”，并成立一个新机构取而代之，大幅降低政府介入房地产金融市场的程度。
A competing bill in the House would go even further to almost completely privatize the mortgage market.
众议院拟定的一部竞争法案甚至更加激进，该法案提议将抵押贷款市场完全私营化。
If a winding down of the two agencies is inevitable, some government guarantee should remain to ensure lending is widely available and safe, Ms. Gordon said.
即便“两房”的取消在所难免，政府也应保留其部分担保，以确保房贷的广范覆盖和安全性，戈登表示。
“The private market likes to look at every single loan — they only want the loans that are the crème de la crème,” she said. “If you scale back the government guarantee too much, then you end up with a really segmented market where people who have pristine credit scores and lots of money can get good, safe, well-priced mortgages, but everybody else can’t.”
“市场私营部门喜欢盯紧每一笔贷款——他们只给百里挑一的客户发放贷款，”她说。“政府如果撤出太多担保，就会催生真正的细分市场，只有财力雄厚、且信用评分无懈可击的人，才能拿到优质、安全又优惠的抵押贷款，而其他人就都与之无缘了。”
A former administrator at the Federal Housing Finance Agency, Ms. Gordon cited analyses that estimate a half-percentage-point rise in borrowing costs if a “fairly robust” government guarantee stays in place, and an increase of at least a whole percentage point if it is dropped completely. The reason for the added expense is that “the market is going to perceive greater risk associated with the loans,” said Alan MacEachin, the corporate economist for the Navy Federal Credit Union, a four million-member banking institution in Virginia. “If there’s greater risk, the markets have to be compensated, and that compensation is higher interest rates, or risk premiums, if you will.”
戈登曾就职于联邦住房金融局(Federal Housing Finance Agency)，她援引分析资料估计，如果政府担保的比重继续维持“相当大”的水平，借贷成本会上升0.5个百分点；而如果政府完全撤出担保，借贷成本则会足足上升一个百分点。之所以会多出半个百分点，是因为“市场会对高风险贷款保持警觉，”海军联邦信贷协会(Navy Federal Credit Union)的企业经济学家艾伦·麦克伊钦(Alan MacEachin)表示。海军联邦信贷协会是弗吉尼亚州的一家银行业金融机构，拥有400万名会员。“如果风险更大了，市场就需要得到相应的补偿。也就是说，借款者必须承担更高的利率或风险溢价。”
With a greatly reduced government backstop, borrowers would likely have to contend with higher down payment requirements, Mr. MacEachin said. And, he added, “lending conditions would be more reactionary to what’s going on in the market. We could only imagine what could have happened had the government not stepped in during the mortgage crisis.”
一旦政府的资助大幅减少，借款人或将不得不承担更多首付，麦克伊钦说。他补充道，“贷款条件还会更易受到市场波动的影响。在本轮次贷危机当中，若政府不介入，后果大家可想而知。”
Any reform isn’t likely to happen for at least a couple of years, especially since the now-profitable agencies are repaying the government for the bailout “rather handsomely,” Mr. MacEachin said.
麦克伊钦认为，至少近两年还不太可能发生任何改革。特别是，如今已处盈利状态的“两房”，正在替政府偿还那笔“相当可观”的救市资金。
Despite widespread negative perceptions of Fannie and Freddie, the conversations about reform have, in a “refreshing twist,” drawn attention to the positive role the agencies play, noted Alex Matjanec, a founder of MyBankTracker.com, a personal finance Web site.
而个人理财网站MyBankTracker.com的联合创始人亚历克斯·马特杰内克(Alex Matjanec)指出，尽管人们普遍对房利美和房地美持有负面看法，但有关改革的讨论发生了“戏剧性的转折”，人们把注意力转向了“两房”发挥的积极作用。
A central argument for eliminating Fannie and Freddie is to get taxpayers off the hook for any further bailouts. But Mr. Matjanec thinks that professed taxpayer protection may be false assurance.
改革派的中心论点之一，就是一旦取消“两房”，纳税人就无需被迫去救助这两家管理不善的机构。但是马特杰内克认为，这种说法看似是在保护纳税人，实则站不住脚。
“If a major bank fails,” he said, “I think the government will treat them like a General Motors and bail them out anyway.”
“一旦某家大银行倒闭，”他说，“我认为政府还是会像对待通用汽车(General Motors)一样对待它，无论如何都会给予救助的。”