WASHINGTON — Technical and diplomatic experts from the United States have crossed into North Korea to meet with their counterparts, American officials said on Sunday, as part of an intense behind-the-scenes effort to resurrect the possibility of a summit meeting between the two countries’ leaders.
华盛顿——美国官员周日表示，美国的技术和外交专家已进入朝鲜，同相应官员会面。这是为恢复两国领导人会晤的可能性而在幕后进行的巨大努力的一部分。
Led by Sung Kim, a veteran diplomat with years of experience negotiating with North Korea, the team is seeking detailed commitments from Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, about his regime’s willingness to abandon its nuclear weapons program. News of the delegation was first reported by The Washington Post.
在有多年对朝谈判经验的资深外交官金成(Sung Kim)的领导下，这个团队正在争取让朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)就他领导的政权愿意放弃核武器计划做出详细的承诺。《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)最先报道了关于这个代表团的新闻。
In Singapore, White House officials said, Joe Hagin, a deputy White House chief of staff, is leading a separate delegation to work out the logistics of a meeting between President Trump and Mr. Kim: when the various meetings would take place, how much would be open to the press, which officials would be in the negotiating rooms, how to handle security concerns.
白宫官员称，在新加坡，白宫副幕僚长乔·哈金(Joe Hagin)正率领另一个代表团为特朗普与金正恩的会晤安排相关后勤事宜：各种会议何时召开、向媒体公开多少信息、哪些官员出现在谈判现场、如何处理安全问题。
Such issues would typically be handled by a well-established diplomatic process of lower-level negotiations that usually takes months, if not years.
这类问题通常是通过一个成熟的外交流程来处理，在此期间往往需要进行数月乃至数年的较低级别谈判。
But Mr. Trump short-circuited that process when he abruptly accepted in March an invitation to meet with Mr. Kim.
但特朗普简化了这个过程。今年3月，他突然接受与金正恩会面的邀请。
Now, after just as abruptly canceling the summit meeting scheduled for June 12 in Singapore, Mr. Trump has — wittingly or not — set in motion a more normal set of discussions to lay the groundwork for an agreement about North Korea’s nuclear weapons program ahead of a decision on whether to hold a meeting between the two leaders after all.
现在，在同样突然地取消了原定于6月12日在新加坡举行的会面后，特朗普有意无意地在决定双方究竟是否举行会晤之前启动了一系列更常规的谈判，为有关朝鲜核武器计划的协议奠定基础。
The timeline is still extraordinarily condensed. Mr. Trump’s repeatedly stated desire to keep June 12 as a possible date for a summit meeting means that officials on both sides are racing to see if work can be completed in a matter of days. Veteran negotiators said it remained unclear whether the two sides could complete enough work to make a meeting possible.
时间依然非常紧张。特朗普一再表示希望仍把6月12日作为可能会晤的日期，这意味着双方官员都在争分夺秒地看能否在几天内完成相关工作。资深谈判代表说，还不清楚双方是否能够完成足够多的工作，让会晤成为可能。
American officials have said the discussions are moving along well, expressing optimism about the possibility of a summit meeting that is clearly intended for an audience of Mr. Trump.
美国官员称谈判进展顺利，对举行会晤的可能性表示乐观。这显然是说给特朗普的听众听的。
In brief remarks to reporters on Saturday night, the president said the lower-level negotiations are “going along very well,” though he added his usual caveat: “We’ll see what happens.” On the Korean Peninsula, a surprise meeting between Mr. Kim and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea also produced some progress toward a meeting.
周六晚上面向记者发表简短讲话时，总统称低级别谈判“进展非常顺利”，不过他接着又发出了常见的警告：“我们会等等看。”在朝鲜半岛，金正恩突然与韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae -in)会面。这次会面也为朝美会晤带来了一些进展。
Mr. Moon said Mr. Kim wanted to discuss “complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula” with Mr. Trump.
文在寅说，金正恩希望与特朗普讨论“朝鲜半岛的彻底无核化”。
“What is not so clear to him is how firmly he can trust the United States’ commitment to ending hostile relations and providing security guarantees for his government, should it denuclearize,” Mr. Moon said after the meeting on the North Korean side of Panmunjom, a “truce village” inside the Demilitarized Zone that separates the two Koreas.
“他不太确定的是，他可以在多大程度上相信美国的承诺，即如果朝鲜无核化，美国便结束敌对关系，并为他的政府提供安全保证，”文在寅在会面结束后说。会面在朝韩两国之间非军事区内的“停战村”板门店村的朝鲜一侧举行。
The answer to that question may hinge on the lower-level discussions going on between representatives of the two countries, a fraught process that can sometimes dissolve into disagreement and at other times produce halting progress toward a presidential meeting.
这个问题的答案可能取决于两国代表之间正在进行的低级别谈判。这是一个令人担忧的过程，有时候会引起分歧，有时则会促进领导人会晤的进程在曲折中向前推进。
Administration officials say they are under no illusions that the team now in North Korea can negotiate the details to begin to dismantle the sprawling nuclear, missile and biological weapons programs in North Korea — all of which were part of the objective Secretary of State Mike Pompeo laid out recently for the talks. In the case of the Iran deal, a detailed plan struck in 2015 that Mr. Trump abandoned this month as insufficient, the negotiations took more than two years.
特朗普政府的官员说他们不抱幻想，不指望在朝鲜的团队能够敲定细节，开始废除朝鲜庞大的核武器、导弹和生物武器计划——这些都属于国务卿迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)最近为谈判制定的目标。以2015年达成的伊朗协议为例，谈判耗时两年多。本月，特朗普废弃了这个详细的计划，称其不全面。
But they can negotiate language and a timetable that Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump can agree on, a framework for further negotiations. That alone would be a major accomplishment, as North Korea has rejected the idea of rapid denuclearization, and wants a step-by-step approach.
但他们可以商定金正恩和特朗普能够达成一致的表述和时间表，这是进一步谈判的框架。单这一点就是一项重大的成就，因为朝鲜已经拒绝了迅速无核化的主意，希望循序渐进。
The United States would also have to agree to changes it would make, perhaps opening talks on a peace treaty that would formally end the Korean War. Another possible concession would be to provide security guarantees to the North that go beyond previous presidents’ pledges.
美国也必须同意做出改变，也许是开启和平条约的谈判，正式结束朝鲜战争。另一个可能的让步是，向朝鲜提供超越前几任总统的承诺。
But for now, veteran diplomats said the negotiating teams from the United States have the kind of experience needed to at least work out the details needed for a summit meeting.
但目前，资深外交官表示，美国的谈判团队拥有的经验，至少能够让他们制定出会晤所需的细节。