Cecil, a 13-year-old lion, wandered out of his sanctuary in a national park in Zimbabwe this month, following the scent of a potential snack.
本月，13岁大的狮子塞西尔(Cecil)循着一只猎物的气味，走出了它在津巴布韦一座国家公园里的保护区。
At the other end of Cecil’s search was a lure, placed there by hunters who, conservationists say, wanted their prey to cross into unprotected territory so they could kill it.
塞西尔追踪的那种气味，是一个陷阱。动物保护人士表示，猎人放置食物是希望猎物进入非保护区域以便猎杀。
Cecil, well known to those who visited the Hwange National Park in western Zimbabwe for his jet black mane, was beheaded, according to conservation officials. His corpse was left to rot in the sun.
塞西尔是津巴布韦西部的万基国家公园(Hwange National Park)的熟面孔，黑色的背鬃为游客所知。然而据保护人员表示，这只狮子已被斩首，尸体被留在在太阳下腐烂。
Zimbabwean officials said that Dr. Walter J. Palmer, an American hunter known for killing big game with a bow and arrow, killed Cecil, and is being sought on poaching charges.
津巴布韦官员表示，杀害西塞尔的是美国人瓦尔特·J‧帕尔默(Walter J. Palmer)医生。这位因使用弓箭猎杀大型猎物而出名的猎人，已经因为盗猎而被当局追查。
Johnny Rodrigues of the Zimbabwe Conservation Task Force said Cecil was lured out of a protected game preserve one night in early July by a hunting party that tied a dead animal to a car.
津巴布韦保护工作组(Zimbabwe Conservation Task Force)的约翰尼‧罗德里格斯(Johnny Rodrigues)表示，在7月初的一个晚上，一群猎人用绑在车上的动物死尸，将塞西尔诱出禁猎保护区。
The first shot, which the authorities say came from Dr. Palmer’s crossbow, was not enough to kill the lion. Cecil was tracked for nearly two days before Dr. Palmer killed him with a gun.
当局表示帕尔默的弩发出了第一击，但未能杀死这只狮子。猎人后来追踪塞西尔两天，才让帕尔默医生用枪将之杀死。
The details of the lion’s death have outraged nature enthusiasts and conservationists around the world who are troubled by wealthy big game hunters who pay tens of thousands of dollars for licenses to kill protected animals for trophies and sport.
狮子被害的细节引发众怒。富有的大型猎物猎人用数万美元取得执照，出于获取狩猎纪念品或运动的目的猎杀保护动物，这让世界各地的自然爱好者与保护人士头痛不已。
Some conservationists argue that, if done responsibly, the selling of expensive licenses to hunters on the prowl for big game can help pay for efforts to protect endangered species. In 2013, the Dallas Safari Club in Texas fought for the right to sell at auction a permit for the hunting of a black rhino in Namibia, setting off a debate over the practice.
一些保护人士称，向追踪大型猎物的猎人出售昂贵执照的做法，只要操作得当，可以成为濒危物种保护的一个资金来源。达拉斯狩猎旅行俱乐部(Dallas Safari Club)就曾致力于拍卖在纳米比亚狩猎黑犀牛的执照，引发了一场争议。
The group argued that a limited hunt helped thin the herd of weak rhinos so the population could grow, and that the $350,000 paid in 2014 by a reality show host to hunt the animal would help fund Namibia’s conservation efforts.
这个组织辩称，有限的狩猎可以减少弱小犀牛的数量，有助于犀牛数量的增长。一名真人秀主持人在2014年支付35万美元购买执照，这笔钱可以用来资助纳米比亚的动物保护工作。
In 2009, Dr. Palmer, a dentist from Minnesota, paid $45,000 at an auction to help fund preservation of an elk habitat in California.
2009年，来自明尼苏达的牙医帕尔默曾在一场拍卖会上花了4.5万美元，用于资助加利福尼亚州一处麋鹿栖息地的保护工作。
A big-game hunter known for his skills in hunting without firearms, Dr. Palmer was profiled in 2009 in The New York Times, when he shot an elk dead from 75 yards with a compound bow in pursuit of a new bowhunting record. The Telegraph in Britain reported on Tuesday that he paid around $54,000 for the opportunity to hunt a lion.
帕尔默是一名大型动物猎人，以不用枪械的狩猎技巧著称。为了刷新弓箭狩猎的纪录，他在2009年用复合弓从75码（约合68米）远处射杀一只麋鹿，《纽约时报》曾撰文报道。英国《每日电讯报》(The Telegraph)周二报道他为了狩猎狮子的机会，花了5.4万美元取得执照。
Thousands of people have signed a petition, intended for Zimbabwe’s president, demanding justice for Cecil, and angry animal rights supporters have gone online to express their outrage at Dr. Palmer.
为了替塞西尔伸张正义，有数千人联名向津巴布韦总统请愿。支持动物权益的人士也在网上表达对帕尔默的愤怒。
Once he was named as the hunter who killed Cecil, Dr. Palmer’s dentistry website was taken offline, and social media users quickly created a parody Facebook page for his office. His Yelp page was also overrun with indignant commenters.
被指认为杀害塞西尔的凶手后，帕尔默的牙医诊所网站便无法连线，社交媒体用户很快在Facebook上建立嘲仿该诊所的专页。帕尔默的Yelp页面也被愤怒的评论淹没。
The Minneapolis Star Tribune reported on Tuesday that Dr. Palmer’s dentistry office had abruptly closed. A makeshift memorial featuring plush animal toys had been set up outside the office on Tuesday afternoon.
明尼阿波利斯《明星论坛报》(The Minneapolis Star Tribune)周二报道，帕尔默医生的诊所突然中止营业。在周二下午，办公室外有人用动物绒毛玩偶堆建起一个临时纪念地。
In a statement, Dr. Palmer defended his actions, saying that he believed what he had done was legal.
帕尔默医生在声明中为自己的行为辩护，表示他认为自己所为都是合法的。
“I had no idea that the lion I took was a known, local favorite, was collared and part of a study until the end of the hunt,” Dr. Palmer said. “I relied on the expertise of my local professional guides to ensure a legal hunt.”
“在猎得这只狮子以前，我不知道我猎杀的是一只受当地人喜爱的知名动物 ，并且佩戴了项圈，属于研究对象，”帕尔默医生说。“我仰赖我在当地的专业向导来确保狩猎合法。”
He said he had not yet been contacted by the authorities in Zimbabwe.
他表示津巴布韦当局尚未与他联络。
Dr. Palmer has past legal problems related to hunting. He faced probation after he pleaded guilty in 2008 for making a false statement to federal officials about where, exactly, a black bear was killed in Wisconsin.
帕尔默过去也曾因狩猎而惹上法律问题。2008年在威斯康星州一只黑熊被杀一案中，他承认自己没有将黑熊的被杀地点如实告知联邦官员，因此面临缓刑判决。