TORONTO — HERE’S the puzzle of America today: the plutocrats have never been richer, and their economic power continues to grow, but the populists, the wilder the better, are taking over. The rise of the political extremes is most evident, of course, in the domination of the Republican Party by the Tea Party and in the astonishing ability of this small group to shut down the American government. But the centrists are losing out in more genteel political battles on the left, too — that is the story of Bill de Blasio’s dark-horse surge to the mayoralty in New York, and of the Democratic president’s inability to push through his choice to run the Federal Reserve, Lawrence H. Summers.
多伦多——这是今日美国的谜团：富豪们达到了财富的顶峰，他们的经济影响力与日俱增，但是，正在接管权力的却是民粹主义者，而且他们是越疯狂越受欢迎。当然，政治极端势力的兴起最为明显的案例是，小型团体茶党(Tea Party)主导了共和党，并且展现了让美国政府停摆的惊人力量。不过，在体面一点的左翼政治斗争中，中间派也在失势：比尔·德布拉西奥(Bill de Blasio)以黑马之姿在纽约市长选举中崛起；民主党总统没法让自己中意的美联储主席人选劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)获得提名。
All of these are triumphs of populists over plutocrats: Mr. de Blasio is winning because he is offering New Yorkers a chance to reject the plutocratic politics of Michael R. Bloomberg. The left wing of the Democratic Party opposed the appointment of Mr. Summers as part of a wider backlash against the so-called Rubin Democrats (as in Robert E. Rubin, who preceded Mr. Summers as Treasury secretary during the Clinton administration) and their sympathy for Wall Street. Even the Tea Party, which in its initial phase was to some extent the creation of plutocrats like Charles and David Koch, has slipped the leash of its very conservative backers and alienated more centrist corporate bosses and organizations.
这些全都是民粹主义者对富豪的胜利：德布拉西奥之所以正在取胜，是因为他给纽约人提供了抛弃迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)的金钱政治的机会。民主党左翼对任命萨默斯的反对，只是针对所谓的“鲁宾派民主党人”（即克林顿[Clinton]政府时期在萨默斯之前担任财政部长的罗伯特·E·鲁宾[Robert E. Rubin]）及其华尔街同情情绪的大规模反抗浪潮的一部分。就连茶党，尽管初期在某种程度上是由查尔斯·科克(Charles Koch)和戴维·科克(David Koch)等富豪打造出来的，现在也已经挣脱了其深度保守派支持者的控制，并惹恼了更为中间派的商界领导人及相关机构。
The limits of plutocratic politics, at both ends of the ideological spectrum, are being tested. That’s a surprise. Political scientists like Larry M. Bartels and Martin Gilens have documented the frightening degree to which, in America, more money means a more effective political voice: Democratic and Republican politicians are more likely to agree with the views of their wealthier constituents and to listen to them than they are to those lower down the income scale. Money also drives political engagement: Citizens United, which removed some restrictions on political spending, strengthened these trends.
在意识形态谱系的两端，金钱政治的局限性都受到了考验。这真是出人意料。拉里·M·巴特尔斯(Larry M. Bartels)与马丁·吉伦斯(Martin Gilens)等政治学者曾经证明，在美国，更多的金钱意味着更为有效的政治声音，其程度骇人听闻：民主与共和两党的政客均更有可能赞同富裕选民的观点，并听进他们的意见，而他们倾听收入水平不高的选民的可能性则较低。金钱还是政治参与背后的驱动力：“联合公民”(Citizens United)一案的判决取消了对政治开支的部分限制，则加强了这一趋势。
Why are the plutocrats, with their great wealth and a political system more likely to listen to them anyway, losing some control to the populists? The answer lies in the particular nature of plutocratic political power in the 21st century and its limitations in a wired mass democracy.
富豪们拥有巨大的财富，以及一个无论如何都更愿倾听他们声音的政治体制，为何还会让部分控制权落入民粹主义者手中？答案在于21世纪金钱政治权力的特殊本质，以及这种权力在互联网时代的大众民主之中的局限性。
Consider the methods with which plutocrats actually exercise power in America’s New Gilded Age. The Koch brothers, who have found a way to blend their business interests and personal ideological convictions with the sponsorship of a highly effective political network, are easy to latch on to partly because this self-dealing fits so perfectly with our imagined idea of a nefarious plutocracy and partly because they have had such an impact. But the Kochs are the exception rather than the rule, and even in their case the grass roots they nurtured now follow their script imperfectly.
想想美国新镀金时代的富豪们到底是如何施展权力的吧。科氏兄弟找到了一种途径，将他们的商业利益与个人意识形态理念融合到对高效的政治网络的赞助中。之所以很容易看懂他们，一方面是因为，这种谋私行为实在是太符合我们脑海中的邪恶金钱统治的概念了，另一方面则是因为，他们在这方面非常的成功。然而，科氏兄弟并非标杆，而是例外。而且，就连他们培育的草根如今也没有严格按照他们的脚本行事。
MOST plutocrats are translating their vast economic power into political influence in two principle ways. The first is political lobbying strictly focused on the defense or expansion of their economic interests. This is very specific work, with each company or, at most, narrowly defined industry group advocating its self-interest: the hedge fund industry protecting the carried-interest tax loophole from which it benefits, or agribusiness pushing for continued subsidies. Often, these are fights for lower taxes and less regulation, but they are motivated by the bottom line, not by strictly political ideals, and they benefit very specific business people and companies, not the business community as a whole.
多数富豪通过两种方式将他们巨大的经济权力转化为政治影响。第一种是严格局限于维护或扩充其经济利益的政治游说。这是一种针对性很强的工作，每家公司，或者顶多是狭隘定义的业界团体，倡导各自的利益：对冲基金业维护让其受益的附带收益税漏洞，农业企业则推动补贴的延续。这些努力往往是为了减少税收和监管，但背后的动力是盈利，而非纯粹的政治理念，而且受益的是极为特定的商务人群及企业，不是整个商界。
As Mark S. Mizruchi, a sociologist at the University of Michigan, documents in his recent book “The Fracturing of the American Corporate Elite,” this is not the business lobby that shaped America so powerfully in the 1950s and 1960s. Business leaders of the postwar era were individually weaker but collectively more effective; C.E.O. salaries were relatively lower, but the voice of business in the national conversation was much more potent, perhaps in part because it was less exclusively self-interested. The postwar era, not coincidentally a period when income inequality declined, was the time when business executives could say that what was good for G.M. was good for America and really believe it. It didn’t hurt that they were sometimes willing to forgo short-term personal and corporate gain when they judged that the national interest required it.
密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的社会学家马克·S·米兹鲁奇(Mark S. Mizruchi)在最近出版的著作《美国企业精英的断裂》(The Fracturing of the American Corporate Elite)中说，这不是上世纪50、60年代曾对美国产生强大影响的商业游说。战后时期的商界领袖作为个体更加脆弱，但是作为整体更为有效；那时CEO的工资相对较低，但是在国家的对话中，企业的声音更大，部分原因也许是这种声音不完全出于自私。并非巧合的是，战后也是收入不平等趋缓的时期，那时的企业高管们敢说，对通用汽车公司有利的事情，对美国也有利，而且他们真有这种信念。同样有帮助的是，在他们认为国家利益需要的情况下，他们有时候愿意放弃短期的个人和企业利益。
The second way today’s plutocrats flex their political muscle is more novel. Matthew Bishop and Michael Green, a pair of business writers, have called this approach “philanthrocapitalism” — activist engagement with public policy and social problems. This isn’t the traditional charity of supporting hospitals and museums, uncontroversial good causes in which sitting on the board can offer the additional perk of status in the social elite. Philanthrocapitalism is a more self-consciously innovative and entrepreneurial effort to tackle the world’s most urgent social problems; philanthrocapitalists deploy not merely the fortunes they accumulated, but also the skills, energy and ambition they used to amass those fortunes in the first place.
富豪们当今展示政治肌肉的第二种方式更加新颖。商业作家马修·毕晓普(Matthew Bishop)和迈克尔·格林(Michael Green)将这种方式叫做“慈善资本主义”——以活动家的方式介入公共政策和社会问题。这不是支持医院和博物馆的传统慈善——在这些无争议的公益事业中，占有一个理事会席位可以带来社会精英地位的额外好处。慈善资本主义是一种更具自我意识的创新和创业努力，目的是对付当今世界最紧迫的社会问题；慈善资本家不光动用自己积累起来的财富，还有他们当初积累这些财富时所用的技能、能量和雄心。
Bill Gates is the leading philanthrocapitalist, and he has many emulators — nowadays, having your own policy-oriented think tank is a far more effective status symbol among the super-rich than the mere conspicuous consumption of yachts or private jets. Philanthrocapitalism can be partisan — George Soros, one of the pioneers of this new approach, backed a big effort to try to prevent the re-election of George W. Bush — but it is most often about finding technocratic, evidence-based solutions to social problems and then advocating their wider adoption.
比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)是一位领头的慈善资本家，他有许多效仿者——在当今的超级富豪圈子中，与游艇和私人飞机等炫耀性消费相比，拥有自己的政策智库才是更有效的身份象征。慈善资本主义可以是有党派的——乔治·索罗斯(George Soros)是采用这种新方法的先锋之一，他支持了一项阻止乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)连任的大规模努力——但最常见的宗旨是针对社会问题找到技术专家式的、基于证据的解决方案，然后倡议推广这些解决方案。
Philanthrocapitalism, particularly when you agree with the basic values of the capitalist in charge, can achieve remarkable things. Consider the work the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has done on malaria, or the transformative impact of Mr. Soros’s Open Society Foundations in Eastern Europe.
慈善资本主义可以取得惊人的成就，尤其是当你赞同相关资本家的基本价值观时。想想比尔和梅琳达·盖茨基金会(Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation)在防治疟疾方面的工作，或者索罗斯在东欧设立的开放社会基金会(Open Society Foundations)的变革性影响吧。
Mr. Bloomberg took philanthrocapitalism one step further — he used his résumé and his wealth to win elected political office. In City Hall, Mr. Bloomberg’s greatest achievements were technocratic triumphs — restricting smoking in public places, posting calorie counts and championing biking. As he prepares for life after political office, he is already honing the more typical plutocratic skill of using his money to shape public policy by energetically engaging in national battles over issues like gun control and immigration reform.
布隆伯格在慈善资本主义方面走得更远，他利用自己的履历和财富赢得了民选的公职。在市政厅，布隆伯格的最大成就都是技术专家式的胜利——限制在公共场所吸烟，标注卡路里数值，倡导骑自行车。在他为卸任公职之后的生活做准备之际，他已经在修炼更为典型的富豪政治技能，动用自己的财力来影响公共政策，积极投入枪支管制和移民改革等议题的全国争论。
At its best, this form of plutocratic political power offers the tantalizing possibility of policy practiced at the highest professional level with none of the messiness and deal making and venality of traditional politics. You might call it the Silicon Valley school of politics — a technocratic, data-based, objective search for solutions to our problems, uncorrupted by vested interests or, when it comes to issues like smoking or soft drinks, our own self-indulgence.
在最好的情况下，这种富豪政治力量提供了一种诱人的可能性，那就是以最高的专业水平落实政策，摆脱传统政治的肮脏凌乱、交易和以权谋私。你可以称其为“硅谷政治学派”——针对当今社会的问题，以一种技术专家式的、基于数据的、客观的方式搜寻解决方案，不受既得利益的影响，或者在吸烟或者软饮料这样的问题上，不受我们自己的自我放纵的影响。
But the same economic forces that have made this technocratic version of plutocratic politics possible — particularly the winner-take-all spiral that has increased inequality — have also helped define its limits. Surging income inequality doesn’t create just an economic divide. The gap is cultural and social, too. Plutocrats inhabit a different world from everyone else, with different schools, different means of travel, different food, even different life expectancies. The technocratic solutions to public-policy problems they deliver from those Olympian heights arrive in a wrapper of remote benevolence. Plutocrats are no more likely to send their own children to the charter schools they champion than they are to need the malaria cures they support.
但是，使这种技术专家版本的富豪政治成为可能的经济力量，尤其是加剧了不平等现象的赢者通吃的恶性螺旋，也界定了这种政治的局限性。日趋严重的收入不平等并非只是制造了经济上的鸿沟。这种鸿沟还延伸到文化和社会层面。富豪们生活在一个远离普通人的不同世界，他们有不同的学校，不同的出行方式，不同的食物，甚至是不同的预期寿命。高高在上的他们针对公共政策问题拿出的技术专家式解决方案，带有一种不食人间烟火的仁慈。富豪们不太可能把自己的孩子送到他们支持的政府特许学校，他们也不需要自己掏钱资助的疟疾治疗方法。
People might not mind that if the political economy were delivering for society as a whole. But it is not: wages for 70 percent of the work force have stagnated, unemployment is high and many people with jobs feel insecure about them and about their retirement. Meanwhile, the plutocrats continue to prosper. And for more and more people, the plutocrats’ technocratic paternalism seems at best weak broth and at worst an effort to preserve the rules of a game that is rigged in their favor. More radical ideas, particularly ones explicitly hostile to elites and technocratic intellectuals, gain traction. And that is true not just in the United States but across the Western developed world — for instance, the Italian prime minister Enrico Letta, recently warned that “the rise of populism is today the main European social and political issue.”
如果政治经济造福于整个社会，那么人们可能不介意这一点。但实际情况并不是这样：70%的劳动者工资已陷入停滞，失业率居高不下，许多有工作的人对工作和退休没有安全感。与此同时，富豪们活得一天比一天滋润。对于越来越多的人来说，富豪们那种以技术专家自居的家长式作风，似乎从最好的方向上说是苍白的姿态，往最坏的方向上说是试图维护对他们有利的游戏规则。更为极端的观念，尤其是那些明确敌视精英阶层和技术官僚知识分子的观念，正在凝聚人气。不仅在美国是这样，在整个西方发达世界都是如此——例如，意大利总理恩里科·莱塔(Enrico Letta)最近警告说，“民粹主义的崛起是当今欧洲面临的主要社会和政治问题。”
AS this populist wave crashes in on both sides of the Atlantic, the plutocrats, for all their treasure and their intellect, are in a weak position to hold it back.
当这股民粹主义浪潮冲击大西洋两岸时，富豪们尽管拥有大量财富和高度理论水平，但却处在劣势，难以抵挡它的冲击。
Part of the appeal of plutocratic politics is their power to liberate policy making from the messiness and the deal making of grass-roots and retail politics. In the postwar era, civic engagement was built through a network of community organizations with thousands of monthly-dues-paying members and through the often unseemly patronage networks of old-fashioned party machines, sometimes serving only particular ethnic communities or groups of workers.
富豪政治的部分吸引力在于，它可以把政策制定从草根政治和接触个别选民的“零售”政治(retail politics)中解脱出来，避免与之相关的凌乱和交易。战后时期，公民参与(civic engagement)是通过两种方式形成的，一是社区组织网络，这些组织拥有成千上万每月缴纳会费的成员，二是老式的政党地方组织庇护网，它们往往不太正当，有时只服务于特定的族裔社区或工人群体。
The age of plutocracy made it possible to liberate public policy from all of that, and to professionalize it. Instead of going to work as community organizers, or simply taking part in the civic life of their own communities, smart, publicly minded technocrats go to work for plutocrats whose values they share. The technocrats get to focus full time on the policy issues they love, without the tedium of building, rallying — and serving — a permanent mass membership. They can be pretty well paid to boot.
富豪时代使公共政策有可能摆脱这一切，并实现专业化。与其像社区组织者那样工作，或者只参与自己社区的公共生活，聪明、有公共意识的技术官员会为价值观相同的富豪工作。技术官员能够专职关注他们喜欢的政策问题，而不用去做那些单调乏味的事情，即培养、动员固定的群众基础，并为他们服务。此外，他们还可以获得相当可观的收入。
The Democratic political advisers who went from working on behalf of the president or his party to advising the San Francisco billionaire Thomas F. Steyer on his campaign against the Keystone XL pipeline provide a telling example. Twenty years ago, they might have gone to work for the Sierra Club or the Nature Conservancy or run for public office themselves. Today, they are helping to build a pop-up political movement for a plutocrat.
一些民主党政治顾问的举动是一个生动的例子，他们从代表总统或其政党工作，变成了给旧金山亿万富翁托马斯·F·斯蒂尔(Thomas F. Steyer)提供建议，帮助其开展反对“拱心石XL”(Keystone XL)输油管道项目的活动。如果是在20年前，他们可能去为塞拉俱乐部(Sierra Club)或大自然保护协会(Nature Conservancy)工作，或是自己去竞选公职。如今，他们却在帮助一位富豪打造一个弹出式政治运动。
Plutocratic politics have much to recommend them. They are pure, smart and focused. But at a time when society as a whole is riven by an ever widening economic chasm, policy delivered from on high can get you only so far. Voters on both the right and the left are suspicious of whether the plutocrats and the technocrats they employ understand their real needs, and whether they truly have their best interests at heart. That rift means we should all brace ourselves for more extremist politics and a more rancorous political debate.
富豪政治有很多理由来推荐技术官员。他们纯粹、聪明、专注。但在社会作为一个整体正被不断扩大的经济鸿沟撕裂之际，居高临下的政策只能产生有限的实际效果。左翼和右翼选民都怀疑富豪及其雇佣的技术官员是否了解自己的真正需求，是否真正为自己的最佳利益着想。这种裂痕意味着，我们都要准备迎接更加极端主义的政见，以及更加针锋相对的政治辩论。
Where does that leave smart centrists with their clever, fact-based policies designed to fine-tune 21st century capitalism and make it work better for everyone?
而这又会把机智的中间派及其聪明、以事实为基础的政策置于何地呢？他们的这些政策旨在对21世纪资本主义进行微调，使其对各方都更加管用。
Part of the problem is that no one has yet come up with a fully convincing answer to the question of how you harness the power of the technology revolution and globalization without hollowing out middle-class jobs. Liberal nanny-state paternalism, as it has been brilliantly described and practiced by Cass R. Sunstein and like-minded thinkers, can help, as can shoring up the welfare state. But neither is enough, and voters are smart enough to appreciate that. Even multiple nudges won’t make 21st-century capitalism work for everyone. Plutocrats, as well as the rest of us, need to rise to this larger challenge, to find solutions that work on the global scale at which business already operates.
部分问题在于，对于你如何利用技术革命和全球化的力量，而不让中产阶级的工作岗位空心化这个问题，还没有人拿出一个完全令人信服的答案。卡斯·R·桑斯坦(Cass R. Sunstein)和一些志同道合的思想者精彩表述和推行过的自由派“保姆国家”家长作风会起到一些作用，福利国家制度也会有帮助。但这两者都是不够的，选民有足够智慧认识到这一点。即使是多方面的微调也无法让21世纪的资本主义造福于每个人。无论是富豪还是我们其他人，都需要应对这个更大的挑战，找到在全球层面可行的解决办法——毕竟，企业已经在全球范围运作了。
The other task is to fully engage in retail, bottom-up politics — not just to sell those carefully thought-through, data-based technocratic solutions but to figure out what they should be in the first place. The Tea Party was able to steer the Republican Party away from its traditional country-club base because its anti-establishment rage resonated better with all of the grass-roots Republican voters who are part of the squeezed middle class. Mr. de Blasio will be the next mayor of New York because he built a constituency among those who are losing out and those who sympathize with them. Politics in the winner-take-all economy don’t have to be extremist and nasty, but they have to grow out of, and speak for, the 99 percent. The pop-up political movements that come so naturally to the plutocrats won’t be enough.
另一个任务是全面投入“零售”的、自下而上的政治——不只是兜售那些深思熟虑过的、基于数据的、技术专家型的解决方案，而是先弄清楚这些解决方案应该是什么样的。茶党之所以能够让共和党脱离其传统的乡村俱乐部根基，是因为它的反体制愤怒与基层共和党选民更好地产生共鸣，这些人是受到挤压的中产阶级的一部分。德布拉西奥当选下一任纽约市市长，因为他在弱势人群以及他们的同情者中培养了自己的选民基础。在“赢家通吃”的经济体中，政治不一定非得走极端主义和下三滥的道路，但它们必须来自于99%的多数人，并且为他们讲话。在富豪们看来自然的弹出式政治运动是不够的。