A little over a year after Colorado and Washington legalized marijuana, more than half the states, including some in the conservative South, are considering decriminalizing the drug or legalizing it for medical or recreational use. That has set up a watershed year in the battle over whether marijuana should be as acceptable as alcohol.
现在距离科罗拉多州和华盛顿州的大麻被合法化已过去一年多一点的时间，此刻，美国有超过一半的州都在考虑把这种毒品无罪化，或是合法用于医疗或消遣的目的，南部一些保守的州也在考虑之列，在一场是否应像接受酒精那样接受大麻的战役中，这无疑时具有里程碑意义的一年。
Demonstrating how marijuana is no longer a strictly partisan issue, the two states considered likeliest this year to follow Colorado and Washington in outright legalization of the drug are Oregon, dominated by liberal Democrats, and Alaska, where libertarian Republicans hold sway.
有两个州极有可能在今年跟随科罗拉多州和华盛顿州的脚步，全面合法化大麻，它们是自由派民主党占统治地位的俄勒冈州和秉持自由意志论的共和党占上风的阿拉斯加州，这一点显示，大麻已不再是严格意义上的两党议题。
Advocates of more lenient marijuana laws say they intend to maintain the momentum from their successes, heartened by national and statewide polls showing greater public acceptance of legalizing marijuana, President Obama’s recent musings on the discriminatory effect of marijuana prosecutions and the release of guidelines by his Treasury Department intended to make it easier for banks to do business with legal marijuana businesses.
支持更宽松的大麻法案的倡议者表示，他们意图维持目前这种成功的势头，有几个原因让他们倍受鼓舞，包括全国性民调和州级民调显示，公众对大麻合法化的接受度提高了，还有，奥巴马总统最近正在考量大麻诉讼引发的歧视性效应，再有就是，财政部下发的指导方针有意降低银行和合法的大麻企业做生意的难度。
Their opponents, though, who also see this as a crucial year, are just as keen to slow the legalization drives. They are aided by a wait-and-see attitude among many governors and legislators, who seem wary of pushing ahead too quickly without seeing how the rollout of legal marijuana works in Colorado and Washington.
不过，他们的反对者也把今年视为关键性的一年，这些人怀着同样的热情希望延缓大麻合法化的行动。许多州长和议员的观望态度让他们受到了鼓舞，他们似乎对过快地推进大麻合法化态度谨慎，因为他们还没看到科罗拉多州和华盛顿州的合法化措施登场后效果如何。
“We feel that if Oregon or Alaska could be stopped, it would disrupt the whole narrative these groups have that legalization is inevitable,” said Kevin A. Sabet, executive director of Smart Approaches to Marijuana, which is spearheading much of the effort to stop these initiatives. “We could stop that momentum.”
带头发起多项制止大麻合法化倡议的组织“明智应对大麻”(Smart Approaches to Marijuana)的执行董事凯文·A·萨比特(Kevin A. Sabet)说，“我们感觉，如果能阻止俄勒冈州或阿拉斯加州的大麻合法化，就能打破这些团体声称合法化是不可避免的整体论断。我们能制止这股势头。”
Despite the drug still being illegal under federal law, the Obama administration has said it will not interfere with the rollout of legal marijuana in the states for several reasons, including whether the state is successful in keeping it out of the hands of minors.
虽然按照联邦法律，大麻依然是非法的，不过奥巴马政府已表示，出于几个原因，联邦政府不会干涉各州初步推行的大麻合法化行动，包括不会干涉这些州是否成功地让大麻远离了未成年人。
At least 14 states — including Florida, where an initiative has already qualified for the ballot — are considering new medical marijuana laws this year, according to the Marijuana Policy Project, which supports legalization, and 12 states and the District of Columbia are contemplating decriminalization, in which the drug remains illegal, but the penalties are softened or reduced to fines. Medical marijuana use is already legal in 20 states and the District of Columbia.
据支持大麻合法化的“大麻政策项目”(Marijuana Policy Project)透露，至少有14个州在考虑于今年推出新的药用大麻法案，其中就有佛罗里达州，该州的一项新提案已符合投票标准。哥伦比亚特区及其他12个州在斟酌大麻的无罪化，在无罪化法案下，大麻依然是非法的，不过惩罚措施会更温和，或者会被减轻为罚款。药用大麻在哥伦比亚特区和其他20个州已经合法。
An even larger number of states, at least 17, have seen bills introduced or initiatives begun to legalize the drug for adult use along the lines of alcohol, the same approach used in Colorado and Washington, but most of those efforts are considered unlikely of success this year.
甚至还有为数更多的州——至少有17个——已经推出提案，或者提出了要按酒精合法化的路线，开始合法化供成人使用的大麻，科罗拉多州和华盛顿州就采取了这条途径，不过，人们认为，大多数举措都不太可能在今年取得成功。
The allure of tax revenues is also becoming a powerful selling point in some states, particularly after Gov. John W. Hickenlooper of Colorado said last week that taxes from legal marijuana sales would be $134 million in the coming fiscal year, much higher than had been predicted when the measure was passed in 2012.
在某些州，税收诱惑也成了一个强有力的卖点，尤其是在科罗拉多州州长约翰·W·希肯卢伯(John W. Hickenlooper)于上周说，在即将到来的财年，合法的大麻销售将贡献高达1.34亿美元（约合8.26亿元人民币）的税收，比2012年提案通过时预计的要高得多。
In Rhode Island, which is struggling financially, national and local advocates for legalization say the Colorado news is sure to help legislation introduced in February to legalize the drug.
在陷入财务困境的罗德岛，呼吁大麻合法化的本地倡议者和其他国内倡议者表示，科罗拉多州的消息肯定对当地于今年2月推出大麻合法化提案有帮助。
“Some feel it’s not an appropriate issue for an election year, and others want to wait and see what happens in Colorado,” said State Senator Joshua Miller, a Democrat who is sponsoring the Rhode Island legalization law. “But a lot of other people are very anxious to take the revenue part of this very seriously.”
罗德岛法律提案的倡议者、民主党参议员乔舒亚·米勒(Joshua Miller)表示，“有些人感觉，在大选年提出这个议题不合适，有些人想要等等，看看科罗拉多州的进展。不过，还有许多人非常迫切希望把税收这个方面重视起来。”
Opponents of legalization, meanwhile, are mobilizing across the country to slow the momentum, keeping a sharp eye on Colorado for any problems in the rollout of the new law there.
与此同时，提案的反对者正在动员全国上下减缓这股势头，他们在死盯科罗拉多州，留意新法案推出后在那里是否出现了任何问题。
“Legalization almost had to happen in order for people to wake up and realize they don’t want it,” Mr. Sabet said. “In a strange way, we feel legalization in a few states could be a blessing.”
萨比特说，“为了让人们觉醒，意识到他们不想让大麻合法化，合法化几乎是不可避免的。这也许让人奇怪，不过我们觉得几个州的合法化法案也许是件好事。”
California had been considered a possibility to legalize marijuana this year through a ballot proposition — one to do just that failed in 2010 — but the Drug Policy Alliance, which had been leading the effort, decided this month to wait until 2016.
加州一直在考虑通过投票提案在年内实现大麻合法化的可能性——类似的单一提案在2010失败了——不过，一直主导该提案的药品政策联盟(Drug Policy Alliance)于本月决定，要到2016年再行动。
While much of the recent attention has focused on these legalization efforts, medical marijuana may also cross what its backers consider an important threshold this year — most notably in the South where Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina are among the states considering such laws.
即使最近有大量的注意力都集中在这些立法提案上，药用大麻还是有可能在今年迈过一个被支持者看重的门槛——最显眼的门槛在南方，那里的阿拉巴马州、佐治亚州和南卡罗来纳州都在考虑类似的法案。
A narrow majority of Americans — 51 percent — believe marijuana should be legal, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted last week, matching the result in a CBS News poll the previous month. In 1979, when The Times and CBS first asked the question, only 27 percent wanted cannabis legalized.
《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道(CBS News)上周展开的民意调查显示，有占微弱多数的美国人——51%——认为大麻应该是合法的，这一结果和CBS新闻频道上个月的民调结果相符。1979年，当《纽约时报》和CBS新闻频道第一次提出这个问题时，只有27%的民众希望大麻能合法化。
There were stark differences in the new poll, though. While 72 percent of people under 30 favored legalization, only 29 percent of those over 65 agreed. And while about a third of Republicans now favored legalization, this was far below the 60 percent of Democrats and 54 percent of independents who did so.
不过，新民调存在惊人的差异。年龄在30岁以下的被调查者中，有72%支持大麻合法化，然而，在65岁的被调查者中，这个比例只有29%。有约三分之一的共和党人目前支持大麻合法化，该比例远低于民主党人中60%的支持率和中立人士中54%的支持率。
In Alaska, sufficient signatures have been collected to get the legalization initiative on the ballot.
阿拉斯加已经收集到足够多的民众签名，可以将立法提案带入表决程序。