GRINNELL, Iowa — The glossy color brochures, each crammed with photos depicting a Chinese student’s high-achieving life from birth to young adulthood, pile up in the admissions office at Grinnell College here.
艾奥瓦州格林内尔——一本本色彩斑斓的入学申请手册堆放在格林内尔学院(Grinnell College)的招生办公室里，这些贴满照片的手册，叙述着每一个中国学生从出生之日起到他们青年时代的卓越人生。
“Hi Professors!” one young woman announced in her bound booklet, sometimes known in China as a “brag sheet,” which included a photo of herself as a baby. She characterized her childhood as “naïve and curious,” and described herself now as “sincere, kind and tough.”
“您好，教授们！”一个女生在她装帧精美的小册子（有时候在中国也被叫做“注水简历”）中这样写道，里面还贴着一张她幼儿时期的照片。她把她的童年时代定义为“天真烂漫、充满好奇”，而把现在的自己形容为“真诚、善良、顽强”。
The brochures, though they are almost never read by admissions officers, are a sign of Grinnell’s success marketing itself in China — a plan that has paid off in important ways, like diversifying the student body and attracting students who can sometimes pay full tuition.
虽然格林内尔学院招生办公室的工作人员几乎从来没有读过这些手册，但它们是这所高校在中国的成功的市场营销的一个象征。这一计划在很多重要方面得到了回报，比如将学生构成多样化，以及吸引到一些可以全额支付学费的学生。
At rural Grinnell, nearly one of every 10 applicants being considered for the class of 2015 is from China.
在偏远的格林内尔小镇，几乎每10个被考虑的2015届学生中就有一个是来自中国的申请人。
Dozens of other American colleges and universities are seeing a surge in applications (and similar brochures) from students in China, where a booming economy means that more families can pursue the dream of an American higher education.
其它数十所美国高校在学生申请信（及类似的申请小册子）中也见识到了蜂拥而至的中国人，中国经济蓬勃发展，意味着越来越多的家庭可以追求美国高等教育的梦想。
But that success — following a 30 percent increase last year in the number of Chinese studying in the United States — has created a problem for admissions officers. At Grinnell, for example, how do they choose perhaps 15 students from the more than 200 applicants from China? After all, the 11-member admissions committee cannot necessarily rely on the rubrics it applies to American applications (which are challenging enough to sort through).
然而，随着去年赴美留学的中国学生人数增长30%，这一成功给招生官员们带来了新问题。以格林内尔为例，如何从200多个中国申请人里精挑细选出15名？毕竟，这个由11名成员构成的招生委员会不可能完全按照录取美国申请人的程序来招收中国学生（按照那个程序筛选出美国学生已经实属不易了）。
Consider, for example, that half of Grinnell’s applicants from China this year have perfect scores of 800 on the math portion of the SAT, making the performance of one largely indistinguishable from another.
以格林内尔为例，今年申请该校的半数以上的中国学生在学术能力评估测试(SAT)考试中数学分数都取得了满分800分，个人成绩十分相近，以致很难区分孰优孰劣。
But the most accomplished applicants will have grades in the 70s or 80s, because Chinese schools tend to grade on a far less generous curve than American high schools. Few will have had the opportunity to take honors or Advanced Placement courses to demonstrate their ability to do college work, since such courses are rare in China.
不过，最优秀的申请人平时考试成绩也只有七八十分，这是因为中国学校的评分要比美国高中苛刻很多。只有寥寥无几的中国学生有机会去上荣誉课程或者大学先修课程(Advanced Placement)来证明他们已经有能力学习大学课程，那种课程在中国是很少见的。
Then there is the challenge of assessing an applicant’s command of English, since some Chinese families have been known to hire “agents” to write the application essay. These are the same advisers who counsel families to spend money on the fancy brochures. “They should save their money,” Seth Allen, the dean of admission and financial aid at Grinnell, said as he glanced at the full-color brag sheets stacked on a nearby desk.
另外一项挑战是评估申请人的英语能力，众所周知，有些中国家庭是雇佣“中介”代写申请作文的。也正是这些留学顾问建议学生家长在华丽的申请手册上花费大量金钱。“他们应该把那笔钱省下来，”扫了一眼旁边桌子上一摞摞的花花绿绿的流水简历，格林内尔招生和助学金办公室主任赛思·艾伦(Seth Allen)说。
Mr. Allen said that few would actually be read by the overworked admissions officers as they plowed through nearly 3,000 applications over all. In fact, the next stop for the brochures, said Jonathan C. Edwards, Grinnell’s coordinator of international admission, would be the recycling bin.
艾伦说，招生办公室工作人员虽然已经加班加点工作，可他们实际读过的申请手册屈指可数，因为他们总共要读将近3000份申请。格林内尔国际招生协调人乔纳森·C·爱德华(Jonathan C. Edwards)说，事实上，这些手册很快就要被扔到可回收的垃圾桶里。
Mr. Allen, Mr. Edwards and their colleagues said they spend most of their time on Chinese applications trying to parse the essays — paying particular attention, as they might with an American candidate, to whether they detect the authentic voice and sensibility.
艾伦、爱德华以及他们的同事都说，在阅读中国人的申请时，他们大部分时间都花在了对作文的解读上——他们需要字斟句酌，弄清楚这些文章是否体现了真情实感。在这一点上，他们在对待中国申请人和美国申请人上毫无二致。
A young woman from Shanghai, for example, who had scored 800 on the math portion of the SAT, and nearly 600 on the main verbal section, impressed Mr. Edwards with an essay that described her volunteering at a rehabilitation center, where a young autistic boy captured her heart.
举例说，一个SAT数学得了800分，阅读部分得了将近600分的上海女生，以她的作文打动了爱德华，在文中她描绘道，她在一个康复中心做志愿者时，被一个自闭症小男孩俘获了她的心。
“Such a hopeless boy evoked my strong feeling to help him and love him,” she wrote. “As time passed by, I found he was interested in hearing the special sound of the piano and was gifted in playing piano.”
“一个如此无助的小男孩，他唤起了我强烈的感情，我要帮助他，爱护他，”她写道。“随着时间流逝，我发现他喜欢聆听钢琴的特殊声音，而且在弹钢琴上很有天赋。”
The applicant was admitted to Grinnell in its early decision round last fall.
这个申请人在去年秋季就被格林内尔提前录取了。
Another Chinese applicant who wrote about her community service made a less favorable impression, at least with her essay, by writing about her own hardship while helping others after the earthquake in 2008 in Sichuan Province. “Every day, I showered and brushed my teeth using cold water,” she wrote. “It was unbearable.”
另外一个写了个人社区服务经验的中国申请人留下的印象则比较不佳——至少从她的申请作文看是这样，她写了在2008年四川地震后帮助灾民时自己所遇到的困难。“每天我都得用凉水洗澡和刷牙，”她写道，“真让人受不了。”
The admissions officers sometimes reach out to teachers and counselors at the applicants’ high schools — especially those that have emerged as “feeders” to Grinnell and other American colleges.
有时候，招生办公室的录取人员也会跟这些申请人高中学校的老师和辅导员了解情况，特别是那些定期向格林奈尔和其它美国高校“输送”学生的高中。
Such relationships have been further cemented during each of the last two summers, when Mr. Allen barnstormed China — stopping in Beijing, Zhengzhou, Changsha and Shanghai — on a recruiting tour with representatives from a handful of other liberal arts colleges, including Franklin & Marshall and Williams. (Grinnell’s applications from China were down slightly this year, as were its applications over all, but still greater than they were five years ago.)
这种关系在去年和前年夏天得到了进一步巩固，艾伦先后在北京、郑州、长沙和上海进行了巡回招生宣讲，那两次招生还有其他几个文理学院的代表参加，富兰克林·马歇尔学院(Franklin & Marshall)和威廉姆斯学院(Williams)都在其中。（今年格林内尔无论从中国收到的申请信数量还是收到的申请信总量都略有下降，但是，和五年前相比，还是有所增加。）
For the colleges, such tours are motivated at least partly by money.
对于这些美国高校来说，开展这样的巡回招生，至少部分动力源于金钱的诱惑。
Grinnell, for example, is “need-blind” when considering American students — who are evaluated regardless of their ability to pay — but its process for admitting international students is “need-aware.”
以格林内尔为例，当考虑是否招收美国学生时，支付能力是不在招生人员的考虑范畴之内的，但是，在录取国际学生时，对于他们是否有能力付费是一定要考虑的。
So an applicant from China or another country could have an edge if he or she can pay full tuition.
所以，对于一个来自中国或者其他国家的申请人，如果有能力支付全额学费，在录取中就会具有优势。
And yet, in the name of socioeconomic diversity, Grinnell also has a dozen full scholarships set aside for international applicants, including those from China, who need help paying tuition.
然而，在社会经济多样化的名义下，格林内尔也有一部分全额奖学金是专门留给国际申请者的，包括那些需要助学金的中国申请人。
“I realize what regional differences there are in China,” Mr. Allen said. “Lumping students into this amorphous Chinese applicant pool really isn’t doing them justice.”
“我意识到了中国的地区差异有多大，”艾伦先生说。“把所有中国申请人都混为一谈，对其中的一些人是不公平的。”
Grinnell started seeing a steady stream of Chinese applications in the early 2000s, and says it can point to strong academic accomplishments among those applicants it has accepted.
在21世纪初期，格林内尔开始收到数量稳定的中国学生的申请书，而且，在他们录取的中国学生中，很多人取得了非凡的学术成就。
Their graduation rate has been comparable to the 1,600-member Grinnell student body over all — about 84 percent of those who enroll graduate in four years — and most Chinese students at Grinnell do “very well” in economics, math or science, the subjects in which they are most likely to major (and usually double-major), Mr. Allen said. Help with writing English papers is also available in a writers’ workshop.
艾伦先生说，中国学生的毕业率和格林奈尔总的毕业率是持平的，每年1600名的学生总人数中，大概84%的学生能够在入学四年以后完成学业。而且，格林奈尔的大部分中国学生在经济学、数学或者自然科学上表现的“可圈可点”，这些也是他们最可能主修（而且常常是主修两门）的科目。而如何撰写英文论文是可以在教授写作的学习班里获得帮助的。
“Chinese students are required to devote significantly more time to their studies than American students, and this generally carries through when they come to college in the U.S.,” he said.
“中国学生在各方面的要求下，在学业上花费的时间要比美国学生多很多，赴美留学以后，情况还是基本如此，”他说。
Chinese applicants have also been learning about Grinnell and other American colleges and universities through a popular Chinese Web site, cuus.cn — which stands for Chinese Undergraduates in the United States, but the letters are also meant to be shorthand for “See You in the U.S.”
同时，中国申请人也一直通过一个很流行的叫做cuus.cn的国内网站来了解格林奈尔以及其它的美国高校。cuus的意思是“在美国学习的中国本科生”，不过那些字母也可以理解为是“美国见”的英文缩写。
“Grinnell in My Eyes,” an article written in Chinese and posted on the site by a recent graduate, is a big bouquet to the school; the writer pays tribute to Grinnell’s flexibility (“if you don’t like the current major, you may also choose independent major”) and the dining hall (“glorious French windows.”)
《我眼中的格林奈尔》——这是新近毕业的一个中国留学生用中文写成并贴在网上的一篇文章，文中充满了对学校的溢美之词；作者高度赞扬了格林奈尔的灵活性（“如果你不喜欢现在的专业，你还可以选择另外的专业”）和食堂（“富丽堂皇的法式窗户”）。
If there is an attribute that American and Chinese applicants share, it may be the ardor they often demonstrate toward Grinnell and the other highly selective colleges they hope will find a place for them.
如果美国和中国申请人有什么共性的话，那就是他们经常表现出来的对格林内尔以及其它他们希望能够获得一席之地的名校的狂热。
“A girl from China called the other day after lunch, which was 2 or 3 in the morning for her,” Mr. Edwards said. “She said she was calling to make sure everything in her application was complete.”
“有一天，一个中国女生在我午饭后给我打了电话，当时应该是中国时间凌晨两三点，”爱德华说。“她说她打电话来只是为了确认她是否把申请材料全部递上来了。”
“I had to tell her to go to bed,” he said.
“我不得不让她先去睡觉，”他说。