WASHINGTON — In the minutes before Asiana Airlines flight 214 crashed at San Francisco International Airport on July 6, one of the three pilots in the cockpit called out three times that the plane was descending too fast. But none of the pilots noticed that they were flying the plane too slowly until shortly before it hit the sea wall at the end of runway 28 Left.
华盛顿——今年7月6日，韩亚航空公司(Asiana Airlines)的214次航班在旧金山国际机场发生坠机，就在事件发生前的几分钟内，驾驶舱内三名驾驶员中的一名曾三次开口提示，飞机下降得太快了。可是，直到飞机即将撞上28号左跑道尽头的防波堤的时候，三名飞行员都没有注意到，飞机的航速太慢了。
Documents released on Wednesday by the National Transportation Safety Board, which held a daylong hearing on the crash, show that inexperience and Korean culture played a role in the way the pilots handled the landing.
国家交通安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board，简称NTSB)周三公布的文件显示，经验不足和韩国文化对驾驶员的着陆操作方式产生了影响。NTSB就此次坠机举行了为期一天的听证会。
The captain, Lee Kang Kuk, who was flying the plane, told investigators that any of the three pilots could have decided to break off the approach, but for “the low-level people,” including himself because he was being supervised by an instructor pilot, “it’s very hard,” he said.
本次航班的机长李江国(Lee Kang-Kuk)对调查人员说，本来，三名驾驶员中的任何一名均可以决定中断着陆，然而，对于“级别低的人”来说，“这是很难的”，这其中也包括了他，因为他处在一名飞行教官的监督之下。
He also said that as the plane approached he was momentarily blinded by a bright light on the runway, possibly a reflection of the sun, but that he would not wear sunglasses because among Koreans that would be impolite.
他还说，飞机着陆时，跑道上的一束强光让他出现了短暂的失明，那也许是阳光反射的结果，不过他不会戴墨镜，因为在韩国人当中，这是一种不礼貌的行为。
The documents indicated that there was confusion among the crew about how the Boeing 777’s auto throttles worked. Captain Lee had just 35 hours experience in that model, and in an interview with investigators he appeared to have confused some details of the automation system with that of the Airbus A320, with which he had extensive experience.
文件显示，机组人员对波音(Boeing)777客机自动油门的工作原理认识不清。对于这种型号的飞机，机长李江国只有35小时的飞行经验。接受调查人员讯问的时候，他似乎把该机型自动操作系统的某些细节和空客(Airbus)A320的相关细节混为一谈，对于后者，他拥有丰富的操作经验。
The first mention that the plane was descending too fast came about a minute before impact, in English, which the crew was using on approach, according to a transcript of the flight data recorder. The second mention was also in English, but the third, about nine seconds after the first, was in Korean, a clue in the transcript about the intensity of the comment.
根据飞行数据记录仪整理出的文字记录显示，第一次关于飞机降落速度过快的提示出现在撞机前大约一分钟，提示者用的语言是机组成员在飞机着陆时通常使用的英语。第二次提示用的也是英语，但是，第一次提示大约9秒后出现的第三次提示用的却是韩语。文字记录中的这一线索显示出了这一意见的紧迫性。
No one said that the plane was too low until the last 30 seconds of the flight. Three seconds before impact, Captain Lee made a comment rendered in the transcript as “oh # go around,” indicating an attempt to re-engage the engines and abort the approach. The plane was then at an altitude of less than 30 feet.
在飞行过程进入最后30秒之前，没人提示飞机的飞行高度过低。离撞机还有三秒的时候，李江国说了句话，在记录仪的文字记录中，这句话被转换成了“oh # go around”（噢#飞起来），说明飞行员试图重新让发动机全力工作，取消着陆。当时，飞机的高度已经不足30英尺（约合9米）。
The 777 hit the sea wall, breaking off the back of the fuselage. Despite a dramatic cartwheel and then a cloud of dust and smoke, only three passengers died.
随后，这架777客机撞到防波堤，机尾折断。尽管飞机发生大幅侧翻，现场腾起滚滚烟尘，但只有三名乘客遇难。
Of 291 passengers, 199 were transported to hospitals as were three of the four pilots on board and 10 of the 12 cabin crew members. One goal of the board is to learn more about the “survival factors” involved.
飞机上共有291名乘客、4名飞行员和12名乘务员，事故发生后，199名乘客、3名飞行员和10名乘务员被送往医院。国家运输安全委员会的目标之一是进一步了解事故当中的“存活因素”。
One of the passengers was killed by a fire truck about 23 minutes after the crash. Investigator interviews with Asiana personnel indicate that two flight attendants were trapped when emergency slides inflated inside the cabin.
事故发生大约23分钟后，一名乘客被一辆消防车碾压致死。调查人员对韩亚航空人员进行的讯问显示，由于应急滑梯在客舱里充气膨胀，两名空乘被困。
Investigators have said they did not find any malfunctions on the plane.
调查人员表示，未在飞机上发现任何故障。