WASHINGTON — As the midterm elections approach, Russia is likely to throw more propaganda at Americans, using people sympathetic to their messages and fake personalities on social media — many of them run by bots — to sow further political and social divisions in the United States, the top U.S. intelligence officials said Tuesday.
华盛顿——美国高层情报官员周二表示，随着中期选举的临近，俄罗斯可能会向美国民众投放更多宣传，利用支持他们言论的人以及社交媒体上的虚假账号（其中很多是由机器人运作），在美国进一步制造政治和社会分歧。
The intelligence chiefs warned the Senate Intelligence Committee, during an annual hearing on worldwide threats that Russia believes its interference in the 2016 presidential election largely achieved its chief aim — weakening faith in American democracy. Moscow now sees the coming congressional elections as a chance to build on its gains, they said.
在就全球威胁举行的一场年度听证会上，情报部门负责人告诫参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)，俄罗斯认为其干预2016年总统选举的主要目标基本实现，即削弱对美国民主的信心。他们说，莫斯科现在认为，即将到来的国会选举是他们扩大成果的一个机会。
“There should be no doubt that Russia perceives its past efforts as successful and views the 2018 U.S. midterm elections as a potential target for Russian influence operations,” said Dan Coats, director of national intelligence.
“毫无疑问，俄罗斯认为过去的行动是成功的，并视2018年美国中期选举为俄罗斯影响力行动的潜在目标，”国家情报总监丹·科茨(Dan Coats)说。
“Throughout the entire community we have not seen any evidence of any significant change from last year,” he added.
“在整个社会，我们还没有看到有任何证据表明和去年相比发生了显著的变化，”他接着说。
The warnings were striking in their contrast to President Donald Trump’s views on Russia. He has mocked the very notion of Russian interference in the last election, and lashed out at those who have suggested otherwise. He also said that he believes denials of Russian interference issued by President Vladimir Putin.
这些警告和唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统对俄罗斯的态度形成了鲜明的对比。他嘲讽俄罗斯干预了上次选举的说法，并猛烈抨击持相反观点的人。他还说自己相信俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)发表的否认干预美国大选的言论。
U.S. intelligence agencies sharply disagree, and their darker view of Russia’s actions was clear on Tuesday. Coats was joined at the hearing by the leaders of the CIA, the National Security Agency, the FBI and other intelligence agencies.
但美国情报机构对此持强烈异议。周二当天，他们对俄罗斯行动的看法明显更悲观。和科茨一起参加听证会的还有中央情报局(CIA)、国家安全局(National Security Agency)、联邦调查局(FBI)和其他情报机构的负责人。
Russian hackers are already scanning U.S. electoral systems, intelligence officials have said, and using bot armies to promote partisan causes on social media. Russia also appears eager to spread information — real and fake — that deepens political divisions, including purported evidence that ties Trump to Russia, and its efforts to influence the 2016 election.
情报官员说，俄罗斯黑客已经盯上了美国的选举系统，并利用机器人大军在社交媒体上加剧党派分歧。俄罗斯似乎还急不可耐地想要传播加剧政治分歧的信息。这些信息有真有假，包括据称把特朗普和俄罗斯及其影响2016年选举的行动联系在一起的证据。
“We expect Russia to continue using propaganda, social media, false-flag personas, sympathetic spokespeople, and other means of influence to try to exacerbate social and political fissures in the United States,” Coats said.
“我们预计俄罗斯会继续利用宣传、社交媒体、假角色、同情他们的发言人和其他影响手段，试图加深美国的社会和政治裂痕。”
“We have seen Russian activities and intentions to have an impact on the next election cycle,” added Mike Pompeo, director of the CIA.
“我们已经看到了俄罗斯影响下一轮选举的活动和意图，”中央情报局局长迈克·庞皮欧(Mike Pompeo)说。
The CIA stood ready to identify elements of Russia’s information campaign and work with domestic law enforcement to respond, he said, suggesting it could go on the attack if needed.
中央情报局随时准备确认俄罗斯情报行动的基本要素，并与国内执法部门携手应对，他说，如有必要可发动攻击。