DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — I’VE never been in a big earthquake, but I know what one feels like now, having spent this past week in Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The American-led interim negotiations in Geneva to modestly loosen some sanctions on Iran in return for some curbs on its nuclear program — in advance of talks for an end to sanctions in return for an end to any Iranian bomb-making capability — has hit the Sunni Arab world (and Israel) like a geopolitical earthquake. If and when a deal is struck, it could have a bigger impact on this region than anything since the Camp David peace treaty and Iran’s Islamic Revolution in the 1970s combined to reorder the Middle East.
迪拜，阿联酋——我从未经历过大地震，但是上周拜访沙特阿拉伯和阿联酋之后，我知道亲历者该是怎样的感受了。美国主导的日内瓦过渡性谈判意在稍微放松对于伊朗的制裁，以换取对后者核项目的些许限制——这只是前奏，最终将进行终止制裁的谈判，以换取伊朗终结发展制造核武器的能力——而现在这一谈判已经震荡了逊尼派阿拉伯世界（以及以色列），就像是一场地缘政治上的大地震。如果这一协议真的能够达成，那个时候，这一地区就会受到剧烈的冲击，整个中东局势将会改变，其影响力之大前所未有，甚至可能比戴维营和平协议和1970年代的伊朗伊斯兰革命加起来还要大。
Why? When Iran had its Islamic Revolution in 1979, it was, emotionally speaking, like a big brother who walked out, slamming the door behind him. Everyone in the family got used to his being gone. Somebody took his bedroom; somebody else took his bicycle; and everyone enjoyed the undiluted attention and affection of Uncle Sam — for 34 years. Now, just the thought of big brother, Iran, being reintegrated and having its own direct relationship with the United States has set all of America’s Sunni Arab allies — Saudi Arabia, the Gulf states, Egypt and Jordan — on edge, especially at a time when Iran is malignly meddling in Syria, Lebanon, Yemen and Bahrain.
为什么这么说？1979年，当伊朗爆发伊斯兰革命的时候，从情感角度看，就像是一个大哥走出房间，狠狠地关上房门。此后，家庭的每个人都已经习惯了他的离去，有人占了他的卧室；还有人拿了他的自行车；每个人都享受到山姆大叔纯粹的关注和爱——时间长达34年之久。现在，只要想到伊朗这位大哥将要重新回归家庭，并且直接与美国建立关系，所有那些美国的逊尼派阿拉伯盟友们——沙特阿拉伯，海湾国家，埃及和约旦——都感到紧张，特别在这段时间里，伊朗插手叙利亚、黎巴嫩、也门，及巴林的事务，从而产生负面影响。
The signs of that nervousness range from the attack on the Iranian Embassy in Beirut last week that killed 23 people to a recent essay in Al-Sharq al-Awsat newspaper by one of the Arab Gulf’s leading journalists, Abdul Rahman Al-Rashed, who wrote: “From a theoretical, political and military perspective, Saudi Arabia will have to protect itself from the Iranian regime’s nuclear program, either with a nuclear weapon or via agreements that will maintain the regional balance of power and protect Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states.” Yikes.
紧张的表现很多，从上个礼拜位于贝鲁特的伊朗大使馆发生袭击，造成23人遇难；到最近《中东日报》(Al-Sharq al-Awsat)上刊登的一篇文章，其作者是阿拉伯湾最具影响力的记者之一——阿卜杜勒·拉赫曼·拉希德(Abdul Rahman Al-Rashed)。他写道：“从理论、政治和军事的角度，沙特阿拉伯将必须保护自己不受来自伊朗政权的核项目威胁，要么发展自己的核武器，要么通过协议来维持区域的力量平衡，并保护沙特阿拉伯和海湾国家。”喔！
There are so many layers to this: Iran is big — 85 million people; Saudi Arabia is small — 20 million people. Saudi Arabia has the largest oil and gas reserves in the Middle East — and Iran is right behind. If sanctions are fully eased one day, will Iran take market share away from Gulf Arabs? The Arab Gulf is primarily Sunni; Iran is Shiite. The Iranians are developing indigenous nuclear technology; the Sunni Arabs have none.
这里有好几个层面的担忧：伊朗是一个大国——拥有8500万人口；沙特阿拉伯是一个小国——只有2000万人口。沙特阿拉伯拥有中东地区最大的石油和天然气储备——而伊朗紧随其后。如果某一天，制裁全部取消，伊朗是否将会夺走阿拉伯海湾国家的市场份额？阿拉伯海湾国家主要是逊尼派；而伊朗则是什叶派。伊朗人正在自行研发核技术；而逊尼派的阿拉伯人则什么都没有。
The Geneva talks are exposing the different interests that America and its regional allies have vis-à-vis Iran, which the sanctions regime had been masking. All the years of sanctions allowed diverse parties with diverse interests — the U.S., Israel, Saudi Arabia, the other Gulf Arabs, Europe, Russia and China — to “pretend to be having the same discussion about Iran strategy, while disagreeing about the ultimate goal of negotiations and the role that sanctions could play in getting us there or not,” notes Daniel Brumberg, a Georgetown University professor and Middle East expert at the United States Institute of Peace.
日内瓦和谈所暴露的，正是在对伊问题上美国和其地区盟友不同的利益，而之前的对伊制裁掩盖了这些不同点。这些年来的制裁让这些拥有不同利益的不同国家——美国、以色列、沙特阿拉伯、其他海湾阿拉伯国家、欧洲，以及俄罗斯和中国——能够“假装就对伊策略进行同一场对话，事实上各方对于谈判的最终目标，以及制裁究竟如何帮助我们实现这一目标，并没有达成一致意见，”说这话的是丹尼尔·布隆伯格(Daniel Brumberg)，他是乔治城大学(Georgetown University)教授，也是美国和平研究所(United States Institute of Peace)的中东问题专家。
If the United States is to maintain its relationships out here, and ensure that the Iran nuclear agreement doesn’t fuel more instability, the interim and final deals have to be good ones. Sanctions should only be finally removed if we can impose on Iran a rollback of its enriched fuels and enrichment technologies, along with sufficient intrusive inspections, to make an undetectable Iranian breakout to a nuclear bomb impossible.
如果美国想要维持这个地区的现有关系，同时确保伊朗核协议不会导致更多的不稳定因素，那么过渡性协议和最终协议都必须相当完善。我们必须能够对伊朗的浓缩燃料和浓缩技术采取推回政策，并辅以充分的侵入性检查，从而确保伊朗无法迅速地秘密研制出核武器。之后我们才最终撤除制裁。
But even if the Iranians agree to such a deal, it will be a hard sell to our allies. American officials believe that, ultimately, the only way to defuse an Iranian threat to the region is both to defuse its nuclear program and change the character of the regime, and that the two are related. Unlike our allies here in the Gulf, we believe that there is real politics inside Iran and differences within the leadership and between the leadership and the people. But those differences have been largely choked off — and the hard-liners given a monopoly on power — as a result of Iran’s isolation from the world. If we can get an airtight nuclear deal that also opens the way for Iran’s reintegration into the global economy, American officials hope that different interest groups — including more stakeholders in engagement with the U.S. and the West — will be empowered inside Iran and start to change the character of the regime.
但是，就算伊朗人同意这一项协议，想要说服我们的盟友还将会非常艰难。美国官员们相信，解除伊朗对于地区威胁的唯一办法，就是在终止其核项目的同时改变伊朗政权的特性，而这两个目标是相互关联的。跟我们的海湾地区盟友不同的是，我们相信伊朗国内存在政治纷争，领导层内部存在不同观点，而领导层和伊朗人民之间也有不同观点。但是那些不同长期以来基本上被扼杀了——而强硬派垄断了权力——这正是伊朗隔绝于世界的后果。如果我们能够拿出一份无懈可击的核协议，同时为伊朗重新回归全球经济开辟出道路的话，美国官员们希望这些不同的利益集团——包括那些跟美国和西方接触的更多的利益相关者——能在伊朗国内获得更大力量，从而开始改变伊朗政权的特性。
It may not work, but it’s a worthy bet because the only real security for Iran’s neighbors can come from an evolutionary change in the character of that regime. So, if Iran’s nuclear capabilities are curbed, we can live with that bet on evolutionary change — especially since it would likely facilitate an end to the U.S.-Iran cold war, which has hampered our cooperating on regional issues. Our allies, by contrast, do not trust Iran at all and therefore don’t believe in evolutionary change there. They want Iran stripped of all nuclear technology until there is regime change.
这有可能行不通，但却值得赌一把，因为伊朗邻国真正的安全只能来自伊朗政权特性的进化式转变。因此，如果伊朗的核能力受到限制，我们或可以接受在进化式转变上下注——特别是这有可能推动美伊冷战走向终结，而这种冷战影响了美伊双方就地区性问题达成合作。相比之下，我们的盟友完全不信任伊朗，因此也不相信进化式转变的存在。他们希望在伊朗政权更迭之前，剥夺其所有的核能力。
We can’t close that gap. We can only manage it by being very clear about our goals: to unleash politics inside Iran as much as possible, while leashing its nuclear program as tightly as possible, while continuing to protect our Arab and Israeli allies. That’s why, in addition to Secretary of State John Kerry, we may also need a “Secretary of State Just for the Middle East.” Because restoring the U.S.-Iran relationship and bringing it in from the cold after 34 years is such a wrenching shock to the Middle East system, it will require daily consultation and hand-holding with all our Arab and Israeli friends.
我们没有办法弥合这一不同意见。我们能做的，就是明确表述我们的目标：尽可能释放伊朗国内的政治力量，同时尽可能严密地控制伊朗的核计划，并继续保护我们的阿拉伯和以色列盟友。这就是为什么我们在国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)之外，还需要一位“中东专属国务卿(Secretary of State Just for the Middle East)”。考虑到恢复美伊关系，并将伊朗从34年的冷战中带出来，这对于中东现在的体系无疑是剧烈的冲击，我们必须每天都与阿拉伯和以色列朋友沟通，进行安抚。