WASHINGTON — With Russian-backed separatists pressing their attacks in Ukraine, NATO’s military commander, Gen. Philip M. Breedlove, now supports providing defensive weapons and equipment to Kiev’s beleaguered forces, and an array of administration and military officials appear to be edging toward that position, American officials said Sunday.
华盛顿——一些美国官员本周日表示，随着俄罗斯支持的分裂分子加大在乌克兰的攻势，北约最高指挥官菲利普·M·布里德洛夫(Philip M. Breedlove)上将开始支持为陷入困境的乌克兰军队提供防御性武器和装备的举措，一些政府和军事官员似乎也在向这种立场靠拢。
President Obama has made no decisions on providing such lethal assistance. But after a series of striking reversals that Ukraine’s forces have suffered in recent weeks, the Obama administration is taking a fresh look at the question of military assistance.
对于这种具备杀伤性的援助，奥巴马总统尚未做出任何决定。但在最近几周，乌克兰军队遭受了一系列惊人的战事逆转，因此奥巴马政府开始重新考虑军事援助问题。
Secretary of State John Kerry, who plans to visit Kiev on Thursday, is open to new discussions about providing lethal aid, as is Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, officials said.
官员们说，关于提供杀伤性援助的新议题，计划本周四访问基辅的国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)愿意予以讨论，美国参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Martin E. Dempsey)也是如此。
In recent months, Susan E. Rice, Mr. Obama’s national security adviser, has resisted proposals to provide lethal assistance, several officials said. But one official said that she was now prepared to reconsider the issue.
一些官员说，最近几个月里，奥巴马的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)一直拒绝建议提供杀伤性援助。但有官员表示，她现在准备重新考虑这个问题。
Fearing that the provision of defensive weapons might tempt President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to raise the stakes, the White House has limited American aid to “non-lethal” items, including body armor, night-vision goggles, first aid kits and engineering equipment.
由于担心提供防御性武器可能会导致俄罗斯总统普京增加筹码，白宫限制美国只能援助“非杀伤性”设备，比如防弹衣、夜视镜、急救箱和工程设备。
But the failure of economic sanctions to dissuade Russia from sending heavy weapons and military personnel to eastern Ukraine is pushing the issue of defensive weapons back into discussion.
但经济制裁未能阻止俄罗斯向乌克兰东部输送重型武器和军事人员，因此，重新讨论防御性武器的问题变得重要起来。
“Although our focus remains on pursuing a solution through diplomatic means, we are always evaluating other options that will help create space for a negotiated solution to the crisis,” said Bernadette Meehan, a spokeswoman for the National Security Council.
“虽然我们的侧重点仍然是通过外交手段来谋求解决方法，同时我们也在评估其他选项，这些选项有助于为通过谈判解决危机提供空间，”国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的女发言人贝尔纳黛特·米汉(Bernadette Meehan)说。
Fueling the broader debate over policy is an independent report to be issued Monday by eight former senior American officials, who urge the United States to send $3 billion in defensive arms and equipment to Ukraine, including anti-armor missiles, reconnaissance drones, armored Humvees and radars that can determine the location of enemy rocket and artillery fire.
周一发布的一份独立报告，将推动更加广泛的政策讨论。该报告由八位前美国高级官员撰写，敦促美国向乌克兰输送30亿美元（约合人民币180亿元）的防御性武器和装备，其中包括反装甲导弹、无人侦察机、装甲悍马车，以及可以判断敌方火箭和炮火位置的雷达。
Michèle A. Flournoy, a former senior Pentagon official who was among those considered to replace Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, joined in preparing the report. Others include James G. Stavridis, a retired admiral who served as the top NATO military commander, and Ivo Daalder, the United States ambassador to NATO during Mr. Obama’s first term.
这份报告的撰写者包括前五角大楼高级官员、一度成为国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)的候选接任者的米歇尔·A·弗卢努瓦(Michèle A.Flournoy)，前北约最高司令官、美国退役海军上将詹姆斯·G·斯塔夫里迪斯(James G.Stavridis)，以及奥巴马第一个任期的美国驻北约大使伊沃·达尔德(Ivo Daalder)。
“The West needs to bolster deterrence in Ukraine by raising the risks and costs to Russia of any renewed major offensive,” the report says. “That requires providing direct military assistance — in far larger amounts than provided to date and including lethal defensive arms.”
“西方必须加强在乌克兰的威慑力，方式是提高俄罗斯进一步大举进犯该国的风险和代价，”该报告说。“我们需要为乌克兰提供直接军事援助——援助量远远大于迄今规模，而且还要提供杀伤性防御武器。”
In his State of the Union address last month, Mr. Obama noted that the economic sanctions imposed by the United States and its allies had hurt the Russian economy.
奥巴马上个月在国情咨文讲话中指出，美国及其盟国对俄罗斯进行的经济制裁，已经对该国经济造成损害。
But American officials acknowledge that Russia has repeatedly violated an agreement, reached in Minsk in September. The agreement called for an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine, the removal of foreign forces and the establishment of monitoring arrangements to ensure that the border between Ukraine and Russia would be respected.
但美国官员承认，俄罗斯已经多次违反去年9月在明斯克达成的协议。该协议呼吁乌克兰交战各方立即停火，撤除外国军队，安排监测方式，以确保乌克兰和俄罗斯之间的边界得到尊重。
In recent weeks, Russia has shipped a large number of heavy weapons to support the separatists’ offensive in eastern Ukraine, including T-80 and T-72 tanks, multiple-launch rocket systems, artillery and armored personnel carriers, Western officials say.
西方官员说，最近几周，俄罗斯为了支持分裂分子在乌克兰东部的攻势，已经向他们输送了大量重型武器，其中包括T-80和T-72坦克、多管火箭发射系统、火炮和装甲运兵车。
Some of the weapons are too sophisticated to be used by hastily trained separatists, said a Western official who, like others discussing the issue, declined to be identified because he was discussing intelligence reports and internal policy debates. NATO officials estimate that about 1,000 Russian military and intelligence personnel are supporting the separatist offensive while Ukrainian officials insist that the number is much higher.
一名西方官员说，对于匆忙培训的分裂分子而言，有些武器太过复杂；他和讨论这个问题的其他人一样，也不愿具名，因为这涉及到情报报告和内部政策讨论。北约官员估计，约有1000名俄罗斯军人和情报人员为分裂分子的进攻提供支援，而乌克兰官员坚称，实际数字还要高很多。
Supported by the Russians, the separatists have captured the airport at Donetsk and are pressing to take Debaltseve, a town that sits aside a critical rail junction.
俄罗斯支持的分裂分子已经夺取了顿涅茨克机场，目前正在攻打德巴尔切夫镇，它位于一个重要铁路枢纽的附近。
All told, the separatists have captured 500 square kilometers — about 193 square miles — of additional territory in the past four months, NATO says. The assessment of some senior Western officials is that the Kremlin’s goal is to replace the Minsk agreement with an accord that leaves the separatists with a more economically viable enclave and would be more favorable to the Kremlin’s interests.
总而言之，在过去四个月内，分裂分子又另外占据了500平方公里（约193平方英里）的领土，北约表示。一些资深西方官员认为，克里姆林宫的目标是用另一项协议来取代明斯克协议，让分裂分子拥有一块在经济上具有可行性的聚居地，让状况更加有利于克里姆林宫。
A spokesman for General Breedlove declined to comment on his view on providing defensive weapons, which was disclosed by United States officials privy to confidential discussions.
了解秘密讨论内情的美国官员披露了布里德洛夫上将对提供防御性武器的看法，上将的发言人拒绝予以置评。
“General Breedlove has repeatedly stated that he supports the pursuit of a diplomatic solution as well as considering practical means of support to the government of Ukraine in its struggle against Russian-backed separatists,” the spokesman, Capt. Gregory L. Hicks of the Navy, said.
“布里德洛夫上将曾多次表示，他支持谋求外交解决方案，同时也考虑切实可行的方法，来帮助乌克兰政府打击俄罗斯支持的分裂分子，”发言人格雷戈里·L·希克斯(Gregory L. Hicks)海军上校说。
But a Pentagon official who is familiar with the views of General Dempsey and Adm. James A. Winnefeld Jr., the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said they believed the issue of defensive weapons should be reconsidered.
但一名熟悉邓普西上将和参谋长联席会议副主席、海军上将詹姆斯·温尼菲尔德(James A. Winnefeld, Jr.)的看法的五角大楼官员表示，他们认为防御性武器的问题应该予以重新考虑。
“A comprehensive approach is warranted, and we agree that defensive equipment and weapons should be part of that discussion.” the Pentagon official said.
“我们有必要综合看待问题，而且我们认为，防御装备和武器应该是讨论的一部分，”这名五角大楼官员说。
Russian casualties remain a delicate political issue for Mr. Putin, who has denied that Russian troops have been ordered to fight in Ukraine.
对于普京，俄军伤亡数字仍然是一个微妙的政治问题，因为他否认俄军奉命在乌克兰参战。
The report by Ms. Flournoy and the other former officials argues that the United States and its allies should capitalize on this fact to dissuade the Russians and the separatists from expanding their offensive.
弗卢努瓦和其他前官员撰写的报告称，美国及其盟友应该利用这一状况，阻止俄罗斯和分裂分子加大攻势。
“One of the best ways to deter Russia from supporting the rebels in taking more territory and stepping up the conflict is to increase the cost that the Russians or their surrogates would incur,” Ms. Flournoy said.
“阻止俄罗斯支持叛乱分子占领更多领土并加剧冲突的最佳途径之一，就是加大俄罗斯及其代理人将要付出的代价，”弗卢努瓦说。