Americans have never hesitated to pack up the U-Haul in search of the big time, a better job or just warmer weather. But these days, domestic migrants are increasingly driven by the quest for cheaper housing.
美国人会毫不犹豫地收拾行装，叫一辆U-Haul搬家车，目的就是为了过上快活的日子、找到更好的工作，或者仅仅是为了住在天气更暖和的地方。但最近，有越来越多的美国人是为了寻找更便宜的住处而搬家了。
The country’s fastest-growing cities are now those where housing is more affordable than average, a decisive reversal from the early years of the millennium, when easy credit allowed cities to grow without regard to housing cost and when the fastest-growing cities had housing that was less affordable than the national average. Among people who have moved long distances, the number of those who cite housing as their primary motivation for doing so has more than doubled since 2007.
如今，美国扩张最快的城市，都是房价低于平均水平的地方，与新千年早期的情况相比，这是一个决定性的逆转。在新千年早期，放松信贷使城市可以在不考虑建房成本的情况下进行扩张，增长最快的城市也是房价高于全国平均水平的地方。而自2007年以来，声称搬家的主要动机是找房子的美国人已增加了一倍以上。
Rising rents and the difficulty of securing a mortgage on the coasts have proved a boon to inland cities that offer the middle class a firmer footing and an easier life. In the eternal competition among urban centers, the shift has produced some new winners.
事实证明，租金的上涨和房贷难申的状况，给内陆城市带来了发展机遇，这些城市能够给中产阶级提供更稳固的立足点和更轻松的生活。在对都市中心的永恒竞争当中，这一变迁产生了一些新的赢家。
Oklahoma City, for example, has outpaced most other cities in growth since 2011, becoming the 12th-fastest-growing city last year. It has also won over a coveted demographic, young adults age 25 to 34, going from a net loss of millennials to a net gain. Other affordable cities that have jumped in the growth rankings include several in Texas, including El Paso and San Antonio, as well as Columbus, Ohio, and Little Rock, Ark.
举个例子，俄克拉荷马市(Oklahoma City)自2011年以来，已经在增速上赶超了全美大部分城市，并在去年成为全美第十二大增长最快的城市。该市还赢得了一批令人羡慕的人群——25到34岁的年轻人，从而完成了从新千年的净流失到净增长的蜕变。其他房价较低、增长较快的城市还有：得克萨斯州的艾尔帕索(El Paso)、圣安东尼奥(San Antonio)等多个城市，以及俄亥俄州的哥伦布(Columbus)和阿肯色州的小石城(Little Rock)。
Newcomers in Oklahoma City have traded traffic jams and preschool waiting lists for master suites the size of their old apartments. The sons of Lorin Olson, a stem cell biologist who moved here from New York’s Upper East Side, now ride bikes in their suburban neighborhood and go home to a four-bedroom house. Hector Lopez, a caricature artist, lives in a loft apartment here for less than he paid to stay in a garage near Los Angeles. Tony Trammell, one of a group of about a dozen friends to make the move from San Diego, paid $260,000 for his 3,300-square-foot home in a nearby suburb.
俄克拉荷马市的新居民不用再忍受原居住地的交通拥堵，小孩上幼儿园也不用苦等候补名额。他们现在的主卧套间就有原来一整套公寓那么大。洛林·奥尔森(Lorin Olson)是从纽约上东区搬过来的干细胞生物学家，现在他的儿子们可以在郊区的社区里骑自行车；回到家里，住的是带有四间卧室的住房。漫画师赫克托·洛佩兹(Hector Lopez)现在所住的顶层公寓，还没有他在洛杉矶附近落脚的一间车库贵。托尼·特拉梅尔(Tony Trammell)也跟一群朋友从圣迭戈(San Diego)搬了过来，他在近郊花26万美元（约合人民币160万元）买了一套3300平方英尺（约合307平方米）的房子。
“This is the opposite of the gold rush,” Mr. Trammell said.
“这跟淘金潮正好相反。”特拉梅尔说。
Since the start of the recession, the number of Americans who have moved each year has fallen sharply for a host of reasons, including the sluggish economy and the increasing similarity of job options from city to city. When people do move, they have all kinds of reasons, including family, climate and, especially for those who move long distances, employment.
自从经济开始衰退，每年都会搬家的美国人已大幅减少，原因有好多种，包括经济不景气、各城市的工作选择越发相似。至于真正采取了行动的人，其搬家的原因五花八门。有的是为了家庭，有的是为了更好的气候。对于长距离搬迁的人而言，就业是尤其重要的因素。
But of those who moved more than 500 miles, the share who said they were chiefly motivated by housing has risen to 18 percent in 2014, from 8 percent in 2007, the earliest year such data is available, according to the Census Bureau. The desire for a new, better or cheaper home and the opportunity to buy instead of rent were among the housing-related reasons people cited.
但是，在搬迁距离超过500英里（约合805公里）的人群当中，声称以找房为主要目的的人群在2014年上升到了18%。而在2007年，也就是我们能查到相关数据的最早年份，这一比例为8%，数据源自人口调查局(Census Bureau)。据称，人们以找房为目的搬家的具体原因包括，他们想要物色更好或者更便宜的新房子；搬家之后就有机会买房而不是租房了。
The story was different from 2000 to 2006, when cities with high-cost housing grew more quickly than those with affordable housing, according to an analysis of metro areas by Redfin, a national real estate brokerage firm. From 2006 to 2012 — years that encompass the housing bust, recession and recovery — that pattern reversed itself, with most low-cost cities growing 2.5 percentage points more than high-cost cities. The analysis excluded cities with poor job growth.
根据业务覆盖全国的房地产经纪公司Redfin针对都市区的一项分析，在2000年到2006年时，情况与此截然不同。在那段时期，住房成本高昂的城市比房价低廉的城市增长更迅速。而在2006年到2012年，也就是经济先后经历了楼市泡沫破灭、经济衰退和复苏的那段时间，这一模式发生了逆转，多数低成本城市的增速比高成本城市高出了2.5个百分点。这项分析排除了就业增长较低的城市。
Before the real estate market crashed, housing in four of the five fastest-growing metropolitan areas, including Cape Coral, Fla., and Riverside, Calif., was less affordable than in the average American city, judging by the relationship between the median home price and income for each metropolitan area. But from 2008 to 2012, all five of the cities with the most growth were more affordable than average, including Raleigh-Durham, N.C., and the cities of El Paso, San Antonio, Austin and McAllen in Texas.
在楼市崩溃之前，增速最快的五个大都市区中，有四个的住房可负担度要低于美国一般城市，包括佛罗里达州的开普科勒尔(Cape Coral)和加利福尼亚州的里弗赛德(Riverside)。住房可负担度的判断依据是每个大都市区的房价中值与收入中值间的关系。但在2008年到2012年，增长最快的五个城市都是房价低于平均水平的地方，包括北卡罗来纳州的罗利达拉姆(Raleigh-Durham)以及得克萨斯州的艾尔帕索、圣安东尼奥、奥斯汀(Austin)和麦卡伦(McAllen)。
“A large percentage of Americans had to read ‘The Grapes of Wrath,’ ” said Mayor Mick Cornett of Oklahoma City, referring to the John Steinbeck novel that chronicled the flight of Oklahomans to California in search of a better life during the Depression. Now the grandchildren and great-grandchildren of those migrants are returning for the same reason. “It’s ‘The Wrath of Grapes,’ ” he said.
“很多美国人必须读一读《愤怒的葡萄》(The Grapes of Wrath)，”俄克拉荷马市的市长米克·科尼特(Mick Cornett)说。他提到的那本书是约翰·斯坦贝克(John Steinbeck)的小说，记载了俄克拉荷马人在大萧条期间为了追寻更好的生活，远赴加州的故事。如今，这些移民的孙辈和曾孙辈正因为同样的原因返回故乡。“现在是‘葡萄的愤怒’了。”他说。
The mayor cited clean air, a lack of traffic gridlock and, of course, affordable housing as factors in the city’s growth. But like other midsize cities, this one has labored to give people additional reasons to move here, notably acquiring a professional basketball team, the Thunder. Along the river, a series of modern glass boathouses has risen like wind-filled sails, transforming the city into a national center for rowing sports. All 73 inner-city schools are being rebuilt or refurbished.
这位市长表示，俄克拉荷马市之所以会高速增长，就是因为空气干净、交通不拥堵，当然还有房价低廉。不过，和其它中型城市一样，该市为了吸引人们入住，还在其它方面下了功夫。其中一个引人注目的举措就是收购了职业篮球队雷霆队(Thunder)。在河边，一系列现代玻璃船坞恰似风扬满帆，使奥克拉荷马市转变成为一处全国划船运动的中心。市中心的73所学校也全部得到了改建或翻新。
Downtown, there is enough streetscaping going on to render a GPS unit useless. And near the city’s historic neighborhoods, chockablock with houses in Arts and Crafts or storybook style, rejuvenated commercial areas like the Plaza District offer residents locally made goods and trendy “beer cocktails.”
市中心设有足够多的街景地图，使GPS设备都失去了用武之地。在这座城市的历史社区附近，到处都是工艺美术风格(Arts and Crafts)或童话风格(storybook style)的住宅；广场区(Plaza District)这类复兴的商业区能为居民提供当地特产和时兴的“啤酒鸡尾酒”。
“Everything is here; everything is coming here,” said Aasim Saleh, 30, who moved from Seattle to coach kayaking in the Boathouse District, where construction of a new white-water center is planned for this fall. “If Oklahoma City doesn’t have it, they’ll build it.”
“这里什么都有；什么都在引进，”30岁的阿西姆·萨利赫(Aasim Saleh)说。他从西雅图搬到了船坞区(Boathouse Dictrict)当皮艇教练。今年秋，这里将建立一个新的白色激流中心。“如果有什么设施是俄克拉荷马市没有的，他们就会建造一个。”
Mr. Saleh moved because he had a rare opportunity to make about $60,000 a year while avoiding a desk job. The low cost of living was a major sweetener, he said, enabling him to become something he thought would not be possible: a homeowner. “I would say that, 100 percent, I had given up on the idea of homeownership in Seattle,” he said. “Which is a really big deal.”
萨利赫之所以搬家，是因为他有一个难得的机会，可以在不坐班的情况下使年收入达到6万美元（约合人民币37万元）的水平。他说，生活成本低是主要的甜头，能帮他实现他做梦也想不到的事情：成为有房族。“我可以毫无疑问地说，我在西雅图已经放弃了买房的念头，”他说，“而买房真的是件大事。”
Some of the newcomers say that as they contemplated living with roommates, sitting in traffic and barely scraping by, the good things about life in a high-cost city lost their appeal. “The beach isn’t going to pay my rent,” said Jacqueline Sit, 32, who left Portland, Ore., where she worked as a television reporter, to come to Oklahoma City, where she quickly found a job in public relations.
有些新来者表示，一想到要和室友住在一起、忍受交通拥堵、不得不省吃俭用，生活在高成本城市的福利就显得微不足道了。“沙滩又不会帮我付房租，”32岁的杰奎琳·希特(Jacqueline Sit)说。她以前在俄勒冈州的波特兰(Pprtland)做电视记者。搬到俄克拉荷马市以后，她很快找到了一份公关工作。
Mr. Olson, 42, who was recruited by the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation after finishing his postdoctoral work, said his family had not shed tears over leaving New York. “There’s a little less to do, yeah,” he said. “But now we can afford to do it.”
42岁的奥尔森在完成自己博士后的研究课题后，得到了俄克拉荷马医学研究基金会(Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation)的录用。他说，他们一家人并没有因为离开纽约而流泪。“这也没什么办法，是的，”他说，“但现在我们负担得起生活成本了。”
Glenn Kelman, the chief executive of Redfin, said that when the company started its real estate service in 2006, he expected the business to thrive in coastal centers. “Now we’re growing fastest in the middle of the country; we can’t hire people fast enough in Houston, in Dallas, in Denver. And all of our customers come from the same place — the airport,” he said. “Maybe the middle class hasn’t disappeared; maybe it’s just gone somewhere else.”
Redfin的首席执行官格伦·科尔曼(Glenn Kelman)说，公司在2006年开始经营房地产业务时，他认为公司的业务会在沿海的中心城市蓬勃发展。“现在，我们业务增长最快的地方是在中部地区；我们在休斯顿、达拉斯(Dallas)、丹佛(Denver)都招不够人手。所有客户都是从同一个地方过来的——机场，”他说，“或许中产阶级并没有消失；可能只是去了别的地方。”
For decades, Americans have flocked to the Sun Belt in search of a better life, first abandoning failing industrial centers like Detroit and Pittsburgh and then increasingly expensive superstar cities like New York and San Francisco, which have been replenished by immigrants.
几十年来，美国人纷纷涌向了阳光地带(Sun Belt)，以追求更美好的生活。他们一开始抛弃了底特律(Detroit)、匹兹堡(Pittsburgh)这样的工业中心，接着又抛弃了房价越来越贵的巨星级城市，比如纽约和旧金山，那里已经被移民占满了。
But during the housing bubble, when even people with modest salaries could get loans to buy staggeringly expensive homes, the cost of housing was less of a concern. Now that getting a mortgage has become harder, the wage stagnation that has hobbled the middle class for years has deeper consequences. “People have no choice,” Mr. Kelman said. “They can’t move across the street; they have to move across the country.”
但在楼市泡沫期间，就连薪水最低的人也能申请到房贷来购买天价住房，人们并不关心住房成本。如今，由于申请房贷的难度加大，困扰中产阶级多年的加薪停滞问题已经造成了更深层次的后果。“人们别无选择，”科尔曼说，“他们不能搬到街对面，而是得搬到国家的另一面去。”
During the bubble, people coming from the most expensive places viewed even moderately expensive housing in places like Phoenix as a bargain, especially if they expected the value of such housing to rise, says Edward Glaeser, a Harvard economist who studies cities.
在泡沫期间，对于来自房价最高地区的人来说，就连凤凰城(Phoenix)这种地方的偏贵住房，都已经显得很便宜了。在他们预期房子会升值的情况下尤其如此，哈佛大学研究城市问题的经济学家爱德华·格莱泽(Edward Glaeser)如是说。
But, Mr. Glaeser says, there is also a historical trend driven by severe restrictions on building new housing in highly regulated cities like San Francisco, Washington and New York. Whereas high housing prices were once a sign of growth because they indicated strong demand, now they are more a function of limited supply. Midlevel prices (as opposed to rock-bottom values in places like Detroit) have become a better predictor of growth.
但是格莱泽也说，在旧金山、华盛顿、纽约这类监管很严的城市，新房的建设受到了严格限制，由此造成了一种历史趋势。虽然高水平的房价曾是增长的一大标志，因为它们昭示着强劲的需求；但现在，它们主要更是供应不足的结果。而中等水平的房价（而不是底特律这种地方的最底价）已成为了更有说服力的增长预兆。