The acquittal of George Zimmerman in the death of Trayvon Martin reverberated from church pulpits to street protests across the country on Sunday in a renewed debate about race, crime and how the American justice system handled a racially polarizing killing of a young black man walking in a quiet neighborhood in Florida.
打死特雷沃恩·马丁(Trayvon Martin)的乔治·齐默尔曼(George Zimmerman)获得无罪开释，这个结果于周日在全美引发了又一轮回荡在教堂讲经台和街头抗议人群之间的讨论。这场讨论涉及种族和犯罪，以及美国司法系统对一桩种族分化严重的杀人案的处理方式。本案中，一名年轻的美国黑人在佛罗里达州某僻静社区行走时被杀。
Lawmakers, members of the clergy and demonstrators who assembled in parks and squares on a hot July day described the verdict by the six-person jury as evidence of a persistent racism that afflicts the nation five years after it elected its first African-American president.
一些议员、神职人员和示威者在炎热的7月聚集在公园和广场，他们把六人陪审团做出的判决形容为种族主义持续存在的证据。美国选出本国第一位非洲裔美籍总统已有五年，种族主义仍在折磨这个国家。
“Trayvon Benjamin Martin is dead because he and other black boys and men like him are seen not as a person but a problem,” the Rev. Dr. Raphael G. Warnock, the senior pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, told a congregation once led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
亚特兰大市埃比尼泽浸礼会教堂(Ebenezer Baptist Church)高级牧师拉斐尔·G·沃诺克(Raphael G. Warnock)博士对曾受牧师小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)博士领导的某宗教团体说，“特雷沃恩·本杰明·马丁(Trayvon Benjamin Martin)之所以死于非命，是因为他和其他黑人男孩和男子一样，被人视作了一个问题，而不是一个人。”
Dr. Warnock noted that the verdict came a month after the Supreme Court voted 5 to 4 to void a provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “The last few weeks have been pivotal to the consciousness of black America,” he said in an interview after services. “Black men have been stigmatized.”
沃诺克指出，此次判决出台一个月之前，最高法院以五票支持、四票反对判定1965年通过的《投票权法案》(Voting Rights Act)的一项条款无效。他在牧礼后的一次采访中说，“过去几周对非裔美国人意识的觉醒是个关键。黑人被打上了耻辱的烙印。”
Mr. Zimmerman, 29, a neighborhood watch volunteer, had faced charges of second-degree murder and manslaughter — and the prospect of decades in jail, if convicted — stemming from his fatal shooting of Mr. Martin, 17, on the night of Feb. 26, 2012, in Sanford, a modest Central Florida city. But late Saturday night, he was acquitted of all charges by the jurors, all of them women and none of them black, who had deliberated for more than 16 hours over two days.
29岁的齐默尔曼是一名社区协警，此前曾面临二级谋杀罪和过失杀人罪指控，如果罪名成立，他将在监狱里度过数十年。他之所以遭受指控，是因为2012年2月26日晚间，他在佛罗里达州中部小城市桑福德开枪打死了17岁的马丁。然而，上周六夜间，陪审团裁定他所有的罪名均不成立，陪审团所有成员都是女性，且没有一个黑人，她们在两天的时间里商议了超过16个小时。
In Sanford on Sunday, the Rev. Valarie J. Houston drew shouts of support and outrage at Allen Chapel A.M.E. as she denounced “the racism and the injustice that pollute the air in America.”
周日，在桑福德的非洲卫理公会埃伦教堂(Allen Chapel AME)，牧师瓦拉里·J·休斯顿(Valarie J. Houston)谴责了“污染美国空气的种族主义和不公”，博得了阵阵支持的叫喊和义愤的回应。
Mr. Zimmerman and his supporters dismissed race as a factor in the death of Mr. Martin. The defense team argued that Mr. Zimmerman had acted in self-defense as the 17-year-old slammed Mr. Zimmerman’s head on a sidewalk. Florida law explicitly gives civilians the power to take extraordinary steps to defend themselves when they feel that their lives are in danger.
齐默尔曼和他的支持者否认种族是造成马丁死亡的因素。他的辩护团队辩称，齐默尔曼当时的举动是为了自卫，因为17岁的马丁摁着齐默尔曼的头去撞人行道。佛罗里达州法律明确规定，平民有权在认为自身遭受危险时采取非常手段自卫。
Mr. Zimmerman’s brother, Robert, told National Public Radio that race was not a factor in the case, adding: “I never have a moment where I think that my brother may have been wrong to shoot. He used the sidewalk against my brother’s head.”
齐默尔曼的弟弟罗伯特(Robert)对美国全国公共广播电台(National Public Radio)说，种族并不是影响本案的因素。他补充道：“我从来都不认为，我哥哥可能不应该开枪。他摁着我哥的头去撞人行道啊。”
President Obama, who had said shortly after Mr. Martin was killed that if he had a son, “he’d look like Trayvon,” urged the nation to accept the verdict.
奥巴马总统敦促全美上下接受这一判决结果。在马丁被杀后不久，总统曾表示，如果自己有儿子的话，“他看上去会像特雷沃恩一样”。
“The death of Trayvon Martin was a tragedy,” Mr. Obama said in a statement issued Sunday by the White House. “Not just for his family, or for any one community, but for America. I know this case has elicited strong passions. And in the wake of the verdict, I know those passions may be running even higher. But we are a nation of laws, and a jury has spoken.”
在白宫于周日发表的一则声明中，奥巴马说，“特雷沃恩·马丁之死是个悲剧，对他的家庭或任何一个社区来说都如此，对整个美国来说也是如此。我知道，这宗案子已经引发了强烈的情绪。我知道，随着判决出台，这种情绪可能会更加强烈。然而，我们是一个法治国家，陪审团已经做出了判决。”
Nonetheless, the reaction to the verdict suggested that racial relations remained polarized in many parts of this country, particularly regarding the American justice system and the police.
尽管如此，判决引发的反应还是表明，在这个国家的许多领域，尤其是与美国司法体系和警察有关的领域，种族关系依然呈现两极分化的局面。
“I pretty well knew that Mr. Zimmerman was going to be let free, because if justice was blind of colors, why wasn’t there any minorities on the jury?” said Willie Pettus, 57, of Richmond, Va.
“我非常清楚齐默尔曼会被释放，因为如果司法不分肤色，陪审团里为什么没有少数族裔？”57岁的威利·佩特斯(Willie Pettus)说，他来自弗吉尼亚州里士满。
Maxine McCrey, attending services at Abyssinian Baptist Church in New York, said the verdict was a reminder of the failure of the justice system. “There’s no justice for black people,” she said. “Profiling and targeting our black men has not stopped.”
在阿比西尼亚浸信会教堂(Abyssinian Baptist Church)参加仪式的玛克辛·麦克里(Maxine McCrey)说，判决是对司法体系失效的一个提醒。“黑人得不到任何正义，”她说。“先入为主和针对黑人的作法并未停止。”
The Justice Department said it would review the case to determine if it should consider a federal prosecution.
司法部(Justice Department)称会对该案进行复审，以确定是否应当考虑向联邦法院起诉。
Many blacks, and some whites, questioned whether Mr. Zimmerman, who is part Hispanic, would have been acquitted if he were black and Mr. Martin were white.
许多黑人和部分白人质疑，如果有部分西班牙血统的齐默尔曼是黑人而马丁是白人，齐默尔曼是否还会被判无罪。
“He would have been in jail already,” Leona Ellzy, 18, said as she visited a monument to Mr. Martin in Goldsboro, the historically black neighborhood of Sanford. “The black man would have been in prison for killing a white child.”
“那样的话，他应该已经进了监狱，”18岁的利昂娜·埃里(Leona Ellzy)说，她正在桑福德的戈尔兹伯勒参观写有马丁的名字的纪念碑。戈尔兹伯勒是个历史悠久的黑人社区。“黑人要是杀死了一个白人孩子，肯定会进监狱。”
But even race’s role in the case became a matter of a debate. One of Mr. Zimmerman’s lawyers, Mark O’Mara, said he also thought the outcome would have been different if his client were black — but for reasons entirely different from those suggested by people like Ms. Ellzy.
然而，即便是种族在这起案件中所起的作用也变成了一个有争议的问题。齐默尔曼的律师之一马克·奥马拉(Mark O’Mara)说，他也觉得，如果他的当事人是黑人，结果会有所不同，不同之处却与埃里女士那样的人所说的完全不同。
“He never would have been charged with a crime,” Mr. O’Mara said.
“他根本就不会遭受犯罪的指控，”奥马拉说。
“This became a focus for a civil rights event, which again is a wonderful event to have,” he said. “But they decided that George Zimmerman would be the person who they were to blame and sort of use as the creation of a civil rights violation, none of which was borne out by the facts. The facts that night were not borne out that he acted in a racial way.”
“这为一起民权事件提供了关注点，民权事件已经再次成了一种令人兴奋的事情，”他说，”可是，他们决定把乔治·齐默尔曼作为谴责目标，并在某种程度上利用他来界定一种侵犯民权的行为，事实证明，这两种情况都不成立。那天晚上的事实并不能证明他的行为带有种族主义色彩。”
Within moments of the announcement of the verdict, demonstrations, some planned and some impromptu, arose in neighborhoods in Chicago, Los Angeles, Washington, New York and Atlanta. There were no reports of serious violence or arrests as the day went on, a contrast with the riots that swept Los Angeles after the verdict in another race-tinged case, the 1992 acquittal of white Los Angeles police officers in the beating of Rodney King, a black construction worker.
宣判之后，芝加哥、洛杉矶、华盛顿、纽约和亚特兰大的一些社区立刻出现了抗议活动，其中一些是有计划的，另一些则是临时起意。随着时间的推移，当天没有关于严重暴力或逮捕事件的报道，这同1992年另一起有种族色彩的案件宣判之后席卷洛杉矶的骚乱形成了对比。当时，殴打黑人建筑工人罗德尼·金(Rodney King)的几名洛杉矶白人警察被判无罪。
Throughout the day, as blacks and whites struggled with the racial implications of the debate, many called for prayer and peace and urged that there be no escalation of violence.
当天一整天，在黑人和白人努力解读辩论的种族含义时，许多人都呼吁祈祷与和平，同时呼吁不要让暴力升级。
“My heart is heavy,” said Milton Felton, a cousin of Mr. Martin’s, outside the Antioch Missionary Baptist Church in Miami Gardens, Fla., where members of the family had gathered. “But that’s our justice system. Let’s be peaceful about it.”
“我心情沉重，”马丁的表哥弥尔顿·费尔顿(Milton Felton)在佛罗里达州迈阿密花园的安提阿宣教浸信会教堂(Antioch Missionary Baptist Church)外面说，马丁的家人聚集在那个教堂里。“但这就是我们的司法体系。让我们平和面对吧。”