Jason Aaron Baca is good-looking, not handsome like the Ryans (Gosling and Reynolds) or rugged like Daniel Craig, who is fetching in a tailored Tom Ford suit. But when Mr. Baca, 42, slipped on a pair of dark aviator glasses recently, he looked remarkably like Tom Cruise in “Top Gun.”
杰森·亚伦·巴卡(Jason Aaron Baca)挺好看的，但是不像瑞安（我说的是瑞安·戈斯林[Ryan Gosling]和瑞安·雷诺兹[Ryan Reynolds]）那么帅，也不像丹尼尔·克雷格(Daniel Craig)那么健壮——克雷格穿上汤姆·福德(Tom Ford)定制西服，简直迷死人。但是，前不久，当42岁的巴卡戴上飞行员太阳镜，看上去很像《壮志凌云》(Top Gun)中的汤姆·克鲁斯(Tom Cruise)。
He was dressed for work in a khaki military jumpsuit. And even though it was barely noon, he had already stopped by the gym to make sure his biceps and legs looked combat-strong. His assignment: To be a military helicopter pilot saved in a crash by a female rescuer with whom he once had a torrid affair. Reunited, their passions have flared.
为了工作，他穿上卡其色伞兵服。虽然还不到正午，他已经去健身房锻炼过了，确保自己的二头肌和腿看起来像士兵一样强壮。他的任务是：饰演一名军用直升机飞行员，飞机失事后，他被一名女救援者救活，他曾和这个女人有过一段炽热的暧昧关系。重逢之后，他们的激情再次被点燃。
Mr. Baca is a cover model for romance novels. He has been on nearly 500 book covers, by his own account — one of scores of men like him vying to be heroic heartthrobs. Not since the flaxen-haired Fabio Lanzoni dominated drugstore book racks in the 1980s and 1990s, with his lion’s mane and bulging biceps, have cover models been in such demand.
巴卡是一名爱情小说封面模特。据他估算，他上过近500个小说封面——很多和他一样的男人竞相想成为令人怦然心动的主人公。从20世纪八九十年代法比奥·兰佐尼(Fabio Lanzoni)凭借狮子鬃毛般的亚麻色长发和鼓起的二头肌主导药店书架以来，对封面模特的需求从未如此旺盛。
“Look at me like you are really mad at me,” cooed Portia Shao, his photographer that day. “Show me your good side.”
“看着我，就好像你对我非常着迷，”那天，他的摄影师波希娅·邵(Portia Shao)说，“向我展示你美好的一面。”
After a few more clicks of the shutter, he and Ms. Shao paused to examine his work on a 2-by-4-foot television screen. “It looks good because it has everything,” Mr. Baca said. The smoldering gaze. A glimpse of his six-pack abs. Mr. Baca had even thrust his pelvis forward, a trick he learned to make his stomach appear flatter and ensure the ladies looked, well, you know, there.
又拍了几张之后，他和邵停下来，在2×4英尺的电视屏幕上审视他的作品。“挺好的，什么都不缺，”巴卡说。郁积着深情的凝视。六块腹肌。巴卡甚至让骨盆前倾，他发现这样能让他的胃部看起来更平坦，能确保女士们会看那儿（你知道的）。
Romance writers and publishers, as it happens, are among publishing’s most innovative participants. They were early to digital serialization. Book sellers, too, now crowdsource ideas to find fresh writers. And if you want to explore a virtual relationship, you can try a romance-novel app.
爱情小说作家和出版商碰巧是出版业中最有创意的参与者。他们很早就开始尝试数字连载。图书销售商现在也众包创意，寻找新晋的作者。如果你想探讨虚拟世界的爱情，那么你可以尝试一个爱情小说应用程序。
How hot are romance novels? Over all, annual sales totaled $1.08 billion in 2013, according to the Romance Writers of America, which tracks sales. And their popularity is expected to grow. Last year Scribd, an e-book subscription service, sharply reduced the number of romance and erotica novels it offered because it couldn’t afford to keep up with readers’ appetites. (Scribd pays publishers every time a book is read and loses money if a book is too popular.)
爱情小说有多火呢？根据追踪图书销量的美国爱情小说作家团体(Romance Writers of America)的数据，2013年，爱情小说的年销售额为10.8亿美元。而且它们的受欢迎程度有望升高。去年，电子书订阅服务网站Scribd大量减少爱情小说和色情小说的数量，因为读者的胃口太大了，它难以承受（一本书每被读一次，Scribd就要给出版商付一次钱，所以如果一本书太受欢迎，Scribd就会亏钱）。
Despite the perception that blockbusters like “Fifty Shades of Grey” drive sales, self-publishing has proved a boon for this particular genre. E-books make up nearly 40 percent of all purchases, according to the writers group. And there are categories for every reader’s taste, among them, adventure, Christian, multicultural, L.G.B.T. and paranormal.
尽管人们认为是《五十度灰》(Fifty Shades of Grey)这样的轰动图书在拉动销售，但实际上，自费出版被证明是这类书的福音。据美国爱情小说作家团体的数据，电子书占全部购买的近40%。有迎合读者不同口味的各类爱情小说，比如关于冒险、基督教、多元文化、LGBT（同性恋、双性恋和变性者）或超自然的。
Enter Mr. Baca. Authors and publishers require a revolving door of new faces, which, while hard to estimate, tally somewhere in the hundreds each year.
所以巴卡就登场了。作家和出版商需要不断出现新面孔。虽然难以估算，但是每年新加入的模特大约有上千名。
“I never thought I would say this,” said Liz Pelletier, the chief executive of the romance novel company Entangled Publishing. “But I am so tired of looking at men’s abs. I don’t know if these ones are sexier than those other ones.”
爱情小说出版公司Entangled Publishing的首席执行官利兹·佩尔蒂埃(Liz Pelletier)说，“我从没想过我会这样说，但我真的看够了男人的腹肌。我真的不知道这个男人的腹肌是不是比其他男人的更性感。”
“It used to be that everyone wanted Fabio,” she added. Today, though, individualism prevails. “Readers don’t want every book to have the same face.”
她还说：“过去，大家都想要法比奥。”但是现在流行的是个性。“读者不喜欢每本书上都是同一张脸。”
It was January and Ms. Pelletier was bemoaning how tough the search for a perfect cover model can be. Entangled Publishing is five years old, one of the newer entrants to an industry whose identity is synonymous with Harlequin, the Canadian publisher, which in the early 1950s started publishing chaste romance stories set in hospitals and medical offices.
当时是1月份，佩尔蒂埃在叹息找一个完美的封面模特有多难。Entangled Publishing在5年前成立，是这个行业的新晋公司，与加拿大的Harlequin出版公司相似，后者从20世纪50年代初开始出版发生在医院和医疗机构里的纯真爱情故事。
Harlequin reached its zenith in the United States in the 1970s when reader appetite shifted to more sexually explicit fare, known as “bodice rippers” or “sweet and savages.”
20世纪70年代是Harlequin在美国的巅峰时期，当时读者的爱好转向性描写更露骨的故事，它们被称为“情色小说”。
Sexy still sells. At Brazen, Entangled’s more risqué fiction line, Ms. Pelletier said book covers with male models sold three times more than with a woman alone. And for new authors in particular, “the cover is really critical,” said Dianne Moggy, vice president for romance fiction at Harlequin.
性感仍是卖点。佩尔蒂埃说，在Entangled出版社较为淫秽的小说系列Brazen中，封面上有男模特的小说的销量比只有女人的多三倍。Harlequin出版公司负责爱情小说的副总裁黛安娜·莫吉(Dianne Moggy)说，尤其对新作家来说，“封面真的很重要”。
Unlike the Fabio era, when covers were painted by hand, today they are more assembly line than art. Consider Daemon Black, a space alien with dark curls and emerald green eyes who is the hero of Entangled’s Lux series, written by the New York Times best-selling author Jennifer L. Armentrout. In 2011, Pepe Toth saw a photograph of himself and his then model girlfriend, Sztella Tziotziosz, on the cover of “Obsidian,” the first in the Lux series published that December.
在法比奥那个时代，封面是手绘的，但如今的封面更像装配线产品，而非艺术品。以Entangled出版社Lux系列的主人公代蒙·布莱克(Daemon Black)为例，他是个有着黑色卷发和翠绿色眼睛的太空外星人。这个系列的作者是《纽约时报》畅销作家詹妮弗·L·阿门特劳特(Jennifer L. Armentrout)。2011年，佩佩·托特(Pepe Toth)在当年12月出版的Lux系列第一本书《黑曜石》(Obsidian)的封面上看到自己和当时的模特女友斯特拉·茨奥茨奥兹(Sztella Tziotziosz)的照片。
Mr. Toth, 26, then living in his native Hungary, had been transformed into Daemon Black without his knowledge. “I thought, what kind of book is this?” he said in a recent interview.
26岁的托特当时住在祖国匈牙利。他在毫不知情的情况下变成了代蒙·布莱克。前不久，他在接受采访时说：“我当时想，这是一本什么样的书？”
Mr. Toth, a professional soccer player, learned that Ms. Armentrout had used a stock photo taken from a shoot he and his girlfriend had done three years earlier in Budapest. So, he emailed the author. “I’m the guy on your book,” he said he wrote. Ms. Armentrout invited him to visit the United States.
托特是职业足球运动员。他得知，阿门特劳特用的是他和女友3年前在布达佩斯拍摄的一张库存照片。所以，他给这位作家写了一封邮件。他说自己是这么写的：“我是你的书封面上的那个人。”阿门特劳特邀请他来美国。
In June 2012, Mr. Toth and his girlfriend flew to Atlanta after Entangled organized “#DaemonInvasion,” a promotion for Lux fans. “When I landed, I said to Jennifer, ‘I don’t know you,’ ” he recalled. “She said, ‘But you have a lot of fans.’ ”
2012年6月，托特和女友飞到亚特兰大，当时Entangled刚为Lux系列的粉丝们组织了一场名为DaemonInvasion的推广活动。托特回忆说：“我落地后，对詹妮弗说，‘我不认识你。’她说，‘但是你有很多粉丝。’”
He and his girlfriend filmed trailers to promote the series and accompanied the writer on a book tour. At the FoxTale Book Shoppe in Woodstock, Ga., one afternoon, Mr. Toth found himself surrounded by almost 50 cheering women. “People called out to me, ‘Oh, Daemon is here!’” he said. One woman started crying. “She didn’t want to step up to have a book signed because she was so happy,” he said. “It was really weird.”
他和女友拍摄了宣传这个系列的预告片，并陪同这位作家巡回推销图书。有一天下午，在佐治亚州伍德斯托克市的FoxTale书店，托特发现自己被近50名欢呼的女人包围。“人们对着我大喊：‘哦，代蒙来了！’其中一个女人开始大哭。“她不想走近来给书签名，因为她太高兴了，”他说，“真的不可思议。”
Today, he posts book signings on his twitter account, @Daemon_Black_and he reads excerpts on YouTube. And when Entangled considered dropping him from the cover after he split up with his girlfriend, Ms. Pelletier said, “There was a revolt from readers.”
如今，托特在自己的Twitter账户@Daemon_Black上发布图书签名，在YouTube上朗读小说节选。佩尔蒂埃说，托特和女友分手后，Entangled出版社考虑过把他从封面上撤下来，“很多读者表示反对”。
Now Mr. Toth is featured alone.
现在，托特独自上封面。
If covers were hand-painted in acrylic back in the Fabio era, the tool of the trade today is Photoshop. Heads are cut off midface if a model is overexposed. Parts of different photos can be pieced together like a Picasso portrait. Toes, too, are deleted if they clash with the book’s title.
如果说在法比奥的那个时代，封面是用丙烯酸手绘的，那么如今的工具是Photoshop。如果曝光过度，就把模特的脸切掉一半。不同照片的各个部位能拼接到一起，就像毕加索的肖像画。纹身如果与书的标题不协调，也可以去除。
For Mr. Baca’s helicopter-pilot shoot in Santa Cruz, Eileen Nauman, a writer better known by her pseudonym Lindsay McKenna, emailed a series of guidelines. She wanted to see him looking alert, with a “slight, playful, teasing smile” and, she wrote, with his “flight suit open to sternum, showing off your great body, but nothing too flagrant or obvious.”
巴卡在圣克鲁斯拍摄直升机飞行员时，该书作者艾琳·瑙曼(Eileen Nauman)——她的笔名琳赛·麦克纳(Lindsay McKenna)更为人所知——发邮件提了一系列指导意见。她想让他看起来很警觉，带着“淡淡的、俏皮的、挑逗的微笑”，“飞行服微微敞开，露出胸部，展现你超棒的身材，但是不要太露骨，太明显”。
“The cover of an e-book is the size of a postage stamp,” she said. “Everyone has about three seconds to peruse, and the first hook is going to be that cover.”
“电子书的封面只有邮票大小，”她说，“每个封面读者只会看三秒，对读者的第一个吸引力是封面。”
Few romance models, if any, make enough money to eke out a living. Mr. Baca, for example, works at the Housing Authority of the County of Santa Clara, Calif., as a customer-service clerk. And although he has an agent, he said he earned only $20,000 in his best year. This, despite the fact that he is a tireless self-promoter who fancies himself the next Fabio. Industry executives say it will be difficult to topple the king. “Nobody did it better than Fabio,” said Allison Kelley, executive director of the romance writers group. “He really did create the brand.”
几乎没有哪个爱情小说封面模特能以此为生。比如，巴卡是加利福尼亚州圣克拉拉县住房管理局的客服人员。虽然他有经纪人，但他说自己一年最多只能挣2万美元。尽管他不知疲倦地进行自我推销，认为自己是下一个法比奥，但是这个行业的高管们表示，想胜过法比奥这位封面之王很难。“谁都比不上法比奥，”美国爱情小说作家团体的执行主管艾莉森·凯利(Allison Kelley)说，“他真的树立起了自己的品牌。”
Mr. Baca’s dream had always been to be on the cover of Playgirl. In his 2004 book, “Journey of a Male Model,” Mr. Baca wrote that a Seattle photographer once shot him nude for a possible Playgirl spread. Instead, those photos landed on the cover of gay men’s magazines under a pseudonym. Mr. Baca said he did not know then to secure the rights to his photographs. (For the curious, he finally made Playgirl in 2004.) And he maintains he doesn’t do it for the money. Instead, cover modeling gives him a taste of fame in an otherwise low-key life. “Nobody else knows this secret life,” he said. “They just think I’m Jason.”
巴卡曾经一直梦想成为《花花女郎》(Playgirl)的封面模特。在他2004年的书《男模之旅》(Journey of a Male Model)中，他写道，西雅图的一名摄影师曾给他拍过裸照，说是可能用作《花花女郎》的横贯两版照片。不过，那些照片最后以化名登上了多本同性恋杂志的封面。巴卡说，当时他不知道保护自己的肖像权（好奇的读者可能想知道，2004年他最终登上了《花花女郎》的封面）。他坚称自己做这些不是为了钱。当封面模特让他在原本低调的生活中体味到一点当名人的感觉。“其他人不知道我的秘密生活，”他说，“他们只知道我是杰森。”
For more than a decade, Jimmy Thomas, a fitness model with the swarthy physique of a gladiator or lusty pirate, has been a romance cover model and estimates he has been on thousands of covers. In 2008, he decided to start his own full-service stock-image website, called Romance Novel Covers, which he hoped would become a clearinghouse for not only his own photographs but those of other models.
健身模特吉米·托马斯(Jimmy Thomas)有着角斗士或海盗的黝黑皮肤和健壮身材。十多年来，他大概登上了上万本爱情小说的封面。2008年，他决定自己开一个提供全方位服务的库存图片网站，名叫爱情小说封面(Romance Novel Covers)。他希望这个网站能够成为他自己以及其他模特的照片交流中心。
Given the interest in romance, the idea seemed like a good one. But as self-publishing took off, a wave of new models stepped in, and the price of stock images plummeted. At the same time, self-published authors couldn’t afford the prices paid by established companies.
鉴于人们对爱情小说的强烈兴趣，这似乎是个好主意。但是随着自费出版蓬勃发展，一大批新模特加入进来，库存图片的价格猛跌。而且，自费出版的作者不像知名出版公司那样付得起高价。
Today, a stock image of Mr. Thomas for an online book sells for about $10. A pre-made cover costs $45. Special orders tally about $300.
如今，只需约10美元就可以使用托马斯的一张库存图片做一本电子书的封面。预先做好的封面售价45美元。订制封面的价格大约是300美元。
“My stock site basically pays my bills,” said Mr. Thomas, who is 45.
“我的库存图片网站基本上足够支付我的账单，”45岁的托马斯说。
In 2013, with his photo business slowing, Mr. Thomas had a new idea: Start his own convention. Fan conventions have long been a prized source of revenue for publishers, the granddaddy hosted by RT Book Reviews, a magazine for and by romance-book lovers who want to connect with authors. Conventions attract a steamy knot of admiring fans, and they want to meet the models. Next month, at the RT Booklovers Convention in Las Vegas, activities include “America’s Next Top Cover Model,” and “Kickass Cowboys, Cops & Kisses,” where fans can take photos with their favorite models.
2013年，随着照片生意变差，托马斯又有了一个新主意：开创自己的粉丝大会。粉丝大会一直是出版商的重要收入来源，最先举办粉丝大会的是《RT书评》(RT Book Reviews)。该杂志的创立者和读者对象是想与作者取得联系的爱情小说爱好者。粉丝大会能吸引很多热情的粉丝，他们想与模特们见面。下个月在拉斯维加斯举办的RT图书爱好者大会将举办“美国的下一位顶级封面模特”和“强壮牛仔、警察与亲吻”等活动，在后面这个活动中，粉丝们可以跟自己最喜欢的模特们合影。
Mr. Thomas’s more practical approach plays up sessions like taxes and self-publishing, and he concedes it hasn’t actually taken off. But he knows his audience. This year, he has added a cover model search and “The World’s Best Male Exotic Dancer Competition.”
托马斯更实际的做法与税收和自费出版有关，他承认还没有真正开始。但是他了解自己的观众。今年，他在自己的网站上增加了封面模特搜索和“世界最佳脱衣舞男大赛”活动。