YORBA LINDA, Calif. — Wet rag in hand, the older woman was trying to clean her filthy, packed garage to comply with a warning that she was violating city codes. As two officials approached to check on her progress, she proudly pointed to an open box in which she had placed two dead rats.
加利福尼亚约巴林达——一位老妇人手拿湿布，正努力清理她那间堆满了东西的肮脏车库——她接到警告，说自己违反了城市条例。两位官员走来检查她的进度，她骄傲地指着一个打开的盒子，里面放着两只死老鼠。
For maximum display, she had perched the box atop one of the garage’s many dense, waist-high piles: bins overflowing with clothes and cans, a bicycle frame, a mildewed mop.
车库里堆满了齐腰高的物品，为了强化展示功能，她把这个盒子放在了其中一堆的顶部，这堆东西里有装满了衣服和罐子的箱子、一个自行车架，还有一个发了霉的拖把。
Darren Johnson, an inspector with the Orange County Fire Authority, and Mary Lewis, a city code enforcement officer, smiled encouragingly. They maneuvered into the woman’s townhouse, its passageways blocked by the detritus of a troubled life. Both are members of the Orange County Task Force on Hoarding, trained not to gag at the stench, even as their shoes squished on newspapers slippery with rat urine.
奥兰治县消防局(Fire Authority)的督查员达伦·约翰逊(Darren Johnson)和城市法规执行官员玛丽·刘易斯(Mary Lewis)向她鼓励地微笑着。他们艰难地走进了这位妇人的联排住宅，房屋的过道已经被混乱生活的各种琐碎物品堵住了。作为奥兰治郡囤积整治工作组(Task Force on Hoarding)的成员，虽然当他们踩到因为老鼠尿而变得湿滑的报纸时鞋子会咯吱作响，但二人所接受的训练却不允许他们因这种恶臭而大惊小怪。
Mr. Johnson, who with Ms. Lewis accompanied a reporter into the woman’s home on the condition that she not be identified, shined a flashlight over tangled electrical cords and ancient magazines. If a fire broke out, he told the woman, “my guys would have a tough time getting inside.”
约翰逊和刘易斯陪同一名记者走进了这名老妇人的房屋内，前提是不得公开她的身份。约翰逊用手电筒扫过缠绕在一起的电线和旧杂志，告诉老妇，倘若起火，“我的人将很难进入这里”。
“So we’d have to get you out through the window,” he told her. “But it would be hard for you to climb through this stuff to get there.”
“所以我们就不得不把你从窗户里救出去，”他告诉她，“但是你要爬过这些东西走到窗户那儿也会很困难。”
The fire inspector added softly, “Can you let us help you clean this up, to save yourself and not put everyone else at risk?”
消防督察员温和地继续说，“为了拯救你自己，也为了不让别人处于危险之中，你能让我们帮你清理一下这些东西吗？
An estimated 3 percent to 5 percent of Americans suffer from hoarding, which was officially recognized as a disorder this month in a psychiatric diagnostic manual. But the impact of hoarding extends beyond the afflicted individual and relatives in the home: the behavior can also put immediate neighbors at risk, by creating perfect conditions for explosive house fires and infestations of vermin and disease.
据估计，有3%到5%的美国人受困于物品囤积。本月，一个精神病诊断手册正式把囤积癖认定为精神疾病。但是，囤积物品不仅会影响被这种问题困扰的个人和屋子里的亲属，这种行为还会为爆炸性家庭火灾，以及虫害和疾病的侵扰创造理想条件，从而使周围的邻居面临危险。
Across the country, local officials like Mr. Johnson and Ms. Lewis have begun grappling with hoarding as a serious public health hazard. More than 85 communities — from San Jose, Calif., to Wichita, Kan., to Portland, Me. — have established task forces, hoping to stave off catastrophes and help hoarders turn their lives around.
在美国各地，像约翰逊和刘易斯这样的地方官员开始与囤积癖这种严重危害公共卫生的问题做斗争。从加利福尼亚州圣何塞到堪萨斯州威奇托，再到缅因州波特兰，这些地方都成立了行动小组，希望能避免灾难，改变囤积癖患者的命运。
The task forces on hoarding are finding their mandates daunting. With each case, officials must weigh when their authority to intervene trumps an individual’s right to privacy.
囤积整治工作组发现他们的任务并不轻松。在每一个案例中，官方工作人员都必须权衡，何时可以不顾个人隐私，进行干预。
“The nature of the disorder demands multiple resources,” said Christiana Bratiotis, an assistant professor of social work at the University of Nebraska, Omaha. “No one discipline has all the expertise needed.”
“这种精神疾病的性质意味着它需要多种资源，”奥马哈内布拉斯加大学(University of Nebraska)社会工作学副教授克里斯蒂安娜·布拉蒂奥蒂斯(Christiana Bratiotis)说，“没有哪一个学科拥有所有必须的专业知识。”
The task forces typically include people from support as well as enforcement perspectives, added Dr. Bratiotis, a co-author of “The Hoarding Handbook,” an intervention guide. “There is value in the carrot-and-stick approach.”
布拉蒂奥蒂斯博士还说，工作组成员通常同时包括来自支持和执法机构的人员。她是干预指南《囤积手册》(The Hoarding Handbook)的合著作者之一。“胡萝卜加大棒的策略还是有用的。”
Hoarding disorder is poorly understood, complex and often recurring: over decades, cases wax, wane and become chronic. It is distinct from cluttering or insatiable collecting. The self-soothing need to acquire, coupled with a paralyzing inability to discard, significantly impairs one’s ability to function.
人们对囤积癖的认识程度不高，这种病较为复杂且往往会复发。在数十年的过程中，它会有所起伏，然后成为一种痼疾。它与胡乱堆放物品和收集狂不同。患者通过获取东西来得到满足感，但又完全无法丢弃任何东西，从而使他们正常生活的能力受到了严重损害。
Over the years, a hoarder’s health and hygiene become dangerously compromised. Because stoves, sinks and tubs are used for storage, cooking and bathing become impossible. Sleep becomes a relative term. When the queen-size bed of a rocket engineer Mr. Johnson tried to help became buried under mounds, the man simply hoisted a twin mattress on top. In 2010, a Chicago couple was found buried alive under years of possessions.
多年来，囤积癖患者的健康和卫生状况都受到了危险的影响。因为他们把火炉、水槽和浴缸都用来储存东西，所以根本不可能做饭或洗浴。睡眠也变成了一个相对概念。约翰逊曾试图帮助过一名火箭工程师，这名工程师的大床被埋没在了一堆东西下，他就在上面摆放了一个大床垫。2010年，人们发现芝加哥的一对夫妇被囤积多年的物品所活埋。
The possibility of a hot, hungry fire increases over time. First, utility bills become buried under snowdrifts of paper, so people forget to pay them. Electricity is turned off. Then residents use candles for light and gas burners for heat, inches from swaying towers of cherished trash.
随着时间的推移，发生大火灾的可能性会增加。首先，公用事业费账单被埋在成堆的纸张下，以至于人们忘了支付这些账单。供电被中断。然后，居民们用蜡烛照明，用煤气炉取暖，距离那些摇摇欲坠的成堆的珍贵垃圾只有咫尺之遥。
Task forces are also confronting another public health threat: infestations. After water is shut off, residents may urinate in bottles and defecate in the yard. Bacteria invade. Maggots feast. Vermin burrow.
囤积整治行动组还面临着另一个公共健康威胁：寄生虫侵扰。断水之后，居民们可能会在瓶子里小便、在院子里大便。细菌汹汹来袭，蛆虫大饱口福，害虫开始出没。
Traditional methods for confronting hoarders are increasingly considered draconian and ineffective, creating new problems. Municipal cleanup crews or family members would throw the hoarded contents into a Dumpster, as the homeowner watched, traumatized. Officials would seek civil or criminal penalties.
人们越来越认为，对付囤积癖的传统办法严酷有余而毫无效果，以致造成新的问题。市政清洁人员或家庭成员会把囤积的物品扔进大垃圾箱，房主就在一边难过地看着。执行人员会寻求对他们施以民事或刑事处罚。
In extreme cases, a hoarder’s home — floorboards weakened, waste pipes neglected, mold growing deep inside walls — would be condemned. Evicted homeowners and tenants, mentally ill and often estranged from relatives, became homeless.
在一些极端案例中，囤积癖患者的家中地板老化、废水管疏于维护、霉菌长进墙内，有关部门会宣布这样的房子不宜居住。被逐出的房主和租户患有精神疾病，往往受到亲属的疏远，成为无家可归者。
A pilot study last year led by Carolyn Rodriguez, an assistant professor of psychiatry at Columbia University, found that of 115 clients who sought help from a New York City nonprofit organization to avoid eviction, 22 percent had clinically diagnosed hoarding disorder. In Boston, representatives from MassHousing, a nonprofit group, try to prevent evictions by showing housing court judges that tenants who hoard have a disorder and are receiving help.
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)精神病学助理教授卡罗琳·罗德里格斯(Carolyn Rodriguez)去年主持的一项初步调研发现，115名向纽约市某非营利组织寻求帮助以避免被驱逐的委托人中，有22%的人曾被临床诊断患有囤积症。在波士顿，来自非营利组织MassHousing的代表设法阻止驱逐行动，他们向法官证明，囤积物品的租户患有囤积症，正在接受帮助。
But even for a comprehensive task force, hoarding cases present harrowing, poignant obstacles, chief among them the homeowners’ fervent resistance to intervention.
可是，即便对一个人员齐备的囤积整治行动组而言，处理囤积案依然面临着种种痛苦而心酸的障碍，其中的一个主要障碍是房主对干预措施的强烈反抗。
Over the years, they increasingly withdraw, terrified of losing their possessions. Mr. Johnson has fended off vicious dogs and faced down armed hoarders. He spent two years trying to clean up one household. He leaves his card, returns every few weeks, brings sandwiches and intercepts residents outside the home.
多年以来，因为害怕失去财产，他们节节撤退。约翰逊曾与凶狗做斗争，与全副武装的囤积癖患者对峙。他花了两年时间，设法清理一户家庭。他留下名片，每隔几周就回来一次，还带来三明治，并在屋外拦截住户。
One impediment is whether officials have the right to gain access to a hoarder’s space, particularly to private dwellings. Although landlords and condominium property managers have the right to enter residences, those who do not share walls enjoy greater rights to privacy.
一个障碍是，官员是否有权进入一个囤积癖患者的空间，特别是私人住所。虽然房东和公寓物业经理有权进入住所，但那些住在独栋房屋的人却有更多的隐私权。
Years ago, the woman in the Yorba Linda townhouse had gotten the courage to fill a Dumpster with hoarded materials, although there was plenty left.
多年前，那位居住在约巴林达联排住宅的妇女曾鼓足勇气将囤积的物品装满一个大垃圾箱，尽管剩下的还有很多。
“A therapist told me I should at least throw out my papers, but I couldn’t,” she told Ms. Lewis, the code enforcement officer, during the site visit. “There were checks in there somewhere,” she said.
她在法规执行人员刘易斯实地查访时告诉她，“一名治疗师告诉我，我至少应该扔掉我的那些纸张，但我不能。”她说，“那里面某个地方夹着一些支票。”
Ms. Lewis learned of the woman’s situation from the complex’s property manager, after a crew came to fix an interior leak that was making one of her walls collapse. To get more information and gain her trust as they inched their way through her home, Ms. Lewis and Mr. Johnson gently chatted her up.
一组工作人员曾来处理墙内漏水问题，由于漏水，她家的一面墙即将垮塌，之后，刘易斯从住宅区的物业经理那里得知了这名妇女的情况。在她的家中慢慢穿过时，刘易斯和约翰逊为了得到更多信息，获取她的信任，与她轻松的交谈。
Did she need food? Medication? Since Ms. Lewis had already extended the stick of code enforcement, they now both offered carrots for the cleanup.
她需要食物吗？需要药物治疗吗？既然刘易斯已经举起了执行法规的大棒，他们现在都给出了鼓励她清理房屋的胡萝卜。