The White House fought on Tuesday to contain the growing political furor over allegations of misconduct at the nation’s veterans hospitals as Republicans, eager to use the issue in the midterm elections, seized on the reports as new evidence that President Obama is unable to govern effectively.
由美国退伍军人医院管理不善的指责带来的政治动荡日益加深，白宫周二奋力加以控制，而急于在中期选举中利用这一议题的共和党人则揪住相关报道不放，以此作为奥巴马总统治理无方的新证据。
Rob Nabors, the president’s deputy chief of staff, will fly to the veterans medical facility in Phoenix on Wednesday to assess the most damning reports — that government workers falsified data or created secret waiting lists to hide the long delays veterans faced before seeing doctors.
总统的副幕僚长罗勃·纳伯斯(Rob Nabors)将于周三飞抵菲尼克斯的那家退伍军人医疗机构，以对最恶劣的报道作出评估。这些报道称，政府工作人员伪造数据，或是创建秘密的等候名单，以掩盖老兵们看医生之前遭受的长时间拖延。
The president is also dispatching Denis R. McDonough, his chief of staff, to Capitol Hill on Wednesday to consult with the chairman of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Senator Bernard Sanders, independent of Vermont. Lawmakers are working on bipartisan legislation that would give veterans officials greater authority to fire those responsible at the Department of Veterans Affairs. The House is expected to vote Wednesday on a bill and the Senate is expected to hold hearings on the legislation soon.
奥巴马还将派遣幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)周三前往国会山，与参议院退伍军人事务委员会主席、来自佛蒙特的独立参议员贝纳德·桑德斯(Bernard Sanders)进行磋商。联邦议员们正在为跨党派立法奔走，目的是赋予主管老兵事务的官员更大的权限来解聘要为此负责的退伍军人事务部（Department of Veterans Affairs，简称VA）人员。预计众议院将于周三就一项提案进行投票，而参议院将很快就此项立法召开听证会。
Inside the White House, officials said that there was no political panic but that the issue was of serious, substantive concern — unlike, the officials said, a previous Republican uproar over extra scrutiny given to Tea Party groups by the Internal Revenue Service.
在白宫内部，幕僚们表示，并不存在政治恐慌，虽说这一议题带来了严重关切——他们称，此事不同于共和党上次的鼓噪，即抗议国税局(Internal Revenue Service)对茶党团体格外严加审查。
White House officials described Mr. Obama as eager for the results of an investigation into the allegations by the V.A.’s inspector general and a separate review of hospital practices being conducted by Mr. Nabors and Eric Shinseki, the secretary of the department. Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, declined to say when Mr. Obama might address the situation again publicly.
根据白宫官员的描述，奥巴马非常想要看到相关调查结果：一是针对VA监察长提出的指控，二是纳伯斯和VA部长埃里克·新关(Eric Shinseki)共同牵头的针对该部门医疗活动的全面审核。白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)拒绝透露，奥巴马何时会再次公开说明此事。
“He is not at all pleased with some of the allegations and will be extremely unhappy if some of them prove to be true,” Mr. Carney said.
“部分指控让他很不高兴，如果其中一些证明属实的话，他会特别难过，”卡尼说。
Republican lawmakers intensified their criticism of Mr. Obama and some made it clear they intend to use the incidents at the veterans hospitals as fodder for a broader political theme about incompetence in Mr. Obama’s administration.
共和党议员加强了对奥巴马的批评攻势，一些人明确指出，他们准备利用退伍军人医院事件，为奥巴马政府无能这个大政治主题提供炮弹。
As a candidate for president, Mr. Obama denounced delays and poor care for veterans at hospitals run by the Department of Veterans Affairs and vowed that his administration would address the backlogs and greatly improve care. He pledged in a 2008 campaign speech to build “a 21st-century V.A.” and to confront what he called “the broken bureaucracy of the V.A.”
竞选总统的时候，奥巴马曾谴责VA运营的医院拖延老兵看病时间、对他们照料不周，并且发誓自己领导的政府将着手应对病人积压的问题，大幅改善医疗质量。在2008年的一次竞选演讲中，他承诺要打造“21世纪的VA”，直面他口中的“崩坏的VA官僚体系”。
But more than five years into his presidency, Mr. Obama has once again found himself exposed to political danger by a bureaucracy that seems beyond his immediate control.
然而，总统任期已过五年有余，奥巴马再次不由自主地暴露在政治风险之下，而造成这种风险的似乎是不受他直接管控的官僚体系。
In responding to the allegations of delays at veterans hospitals, the Obama White House has embraced what has become a familiar public relations pattern in dealing with political crises: Administration officials declare their outrage as they urge patience while an investigation is completed.
在回应退伍军人医院的拖延问题时，奥巴马治下的白宫采纳了一种已成为惯例的处理政治危机的公关模式：政府官员宣扬他们的愤慨之情，同时敦促大家耐心等待调查完成。
The White House has also borrowed a page from its response to the debacle of the rollout of HealthCare.gov this past fall, when Mr. Obama sent a top aide to help repair the health care website and impose management discipline. By sending Mr. Nabors to assist Mr. Shinseki in his review, the White House is installing one of its own operatives to provide a direct pipeline of information to Mr. Obama.
白宫还从回应去年秋季HealthCare.gov网站推出失利的经验中借鉴一二。当时，奥巴马派出一名高级幕僚协助修复医保网站，并加强纪律管理。通过派遣纳伯斯来协助新关进行全面审核，白宫安插了一名自己人来提供直通奥巴马的信息渠道。
So far, White House officials have waved aside calls for Mr. Shinseki to resign in much the same way they rejected calls for the resignation of Kathleen Sebelius, then the secretary of health and human services, over the botched health care rollout. Mr. Carney said Monday that the president still has confidence in Mr. Shinseki.
截至目前，白宫官员对要求新关辞职的呼声置之不理，处理手法类似于他们此前断然否决让凯瑟琳·西贝利厄斯(Kathleen Sebelius)因医保首秀失误而辞去卫生与公众福利部长一职的呼吁。卡尼于周一表示，总统仍对新关有信心。