The economy accelerated in June, with employers adding 288,000 jobs, well above the rate of hiring recorded in the first five months of 2014 and another sign that growth is finally rebounding.
美国经济增速6月出现提升，新增就业岗位28.8万个。远远超过了2014年头五个月的就业岗位增幅，一些其他迹象也表明经济终于开始反弹。
The Labor Department also said on Thursday that the unemployment rate fell 0.2 percentage point, to 6.1 percent, the lowest since September 2008, when the economy’s fortunes turned sharply lower as Lehman Brothers collapsed and the financial crisis ensued.
劳工部(Labor Department)周四表示，失业率降低了0.2个百分点，降到了6.1%，这是2008年9月以来的最低点。那时雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产，金融危机随之爆发，经济状况急转直下。
Nearly six years later, some of the scars remain — like a historically low rate of Americans in the work force. But the job market has been showing signs of health, even as the overall economic growth rate has been anemic.
将近六年之后，有些伤疤依然存在，比如美国就业率仍处于历史最低水平。不过就业市场已经显露出了健康的迹象，虽然整体经济增长水平仍然乏力。
Unemployment has come down from 7.9 percent at the start of 2013, and the average monthly gain in payrolls has been above 200,000 for the last five months.
与2013年初7.9%的失业率相比，过去五个月，平均每月的新增就业人数都超过了20万。
The Labor Department report came in well above expectations, which had been moving higher in recent days. The average gain anticipated by Wall Street economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the release stood at 215,000, with the unemployment rate remaining flat at 6.3 percent.
劳工部的报告远远超出了人们的预期，最近几日，就业水平仍在提高。在劳工部发布相关数据之前，彭博(Bloomberg)对华尔街的经济学家进行了调查，他们预计就业岗位将平均增加21.5万个，而失业率仍将保持在6.3%左右。
The positive surprise was welcomed by investors, with the Dow Jones industrial average closing above the 17,000 level for the first time in its history. Wall Street trading ended at 1 p.m. because of the Independence Day holiday. Other market indices were also higher, with both the Standard & Poor’s 500 index and the Nasdaq up by roughly half of one percent. The payroll gains in June were wide-ranging, with healthy increases in sectors ranging from manufacturing to health care, as well as financial services and transportation.
投资者对这种惊喜的变化表示欢迎，道琼斯工业平均指数(Dow Jones Industrial Average)也首次突破1.7万点大关。由于独立日(Independence Day)假期的到来，华尔街下午1点结束了交易。其他市场指数也出现提高，标准普尔500指数(Standard & Poor’s 500)和纳斯达克(Nasdaq)指数都上涨了大约0.5%。6月新增就业的范围很广，制造业、卫生保健、金融服务和交通运输等行业都出现了健康增长。
The robust report is likely to stir talk of an earlier move than expected by the Federal Reserve to increase interest rates next year. But there was little hint of accelerating wage inflation in June, a crucial trend that the Fed watches. Wages are up just 2 percent from the period a year earlier, essentially in line with the inflation rate today as well as the overall rate of salary increases over the last four years.
这份鼓舞人心的报告可能会促使人们谈论，美联储(Federal Reserve)或许会早于外界预期，在明年提高利率。但是，几乎没有迹象显示6月工资提高出现加速，这也是美联储关注的关键趋势之一。与去年同期相比，工资只提高了2%，与当前的通胀水平，以及过去四年里的总体工资增长水平相当。
Still, the drop in the unemployment rate to near 6 percent comes months earlier than the Fed had expected; the central bank had predicted it would take until the end of the year for the rate to reach that level. The Fed’s program of buying bonds to stimulate the economy is set to end in October, but most economists have been predicting the first increases in short-term interest rates would not come until the summer or early fall of 2015.
然而，如今失业率降到了6%左右，比美联储的预期提前了几个月。美联储曾预计到今年年底失业率才会达到前述水平。按计划，美联储通过购买债券刺激经济的计划将于10月结束，但大多数经济学家一直认为，直到2015年夏季或初秋以前，短期利率都不会提高。
Now, some experts like Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics say the Fed could move as soon as March. That may not sound like much of a difference, but for Wall Street, the timing of the first interest rate increase after nearly six years of rates of just above zero is fraught with anxiety. In premarket trading, bond yields rose while stocks looked to open higher, a sign investors are willing to live with higher rates as long as the trajectory for future growth is on an upward slope.
现在，凯投宏观(Capital Economics)的保罗·阿什沃斯(Paul Ashworth)等部分专家表示，美联储可能会在明年3月就会采取行动。这可能听上去没有太大差别，但过去六年来，利率利率一直保持在略高于零的水平，华尔街对首次加息的时间选择充满焦虑。在盘前交易中，债券收益率攀升，而股票则有望高开。这一迹象表明，只要未来增长轨迹上行，投资者就愿意接受更高的利率。
The pace of hiring in recent months has been stronger despite a very weak first quarter, when the economy shrank at an annual rate of 2.9 percent. Although the weakness was initially attributed to weather, as well as more technical factors like inventory swings, the depth of the contraction caught some economists off guard, especially those who began the year with a more positive outlook for 2014.
今年第一季度经济的年化收缩幅度为2.9%，因此就业市场乏力，但最近几个月里，就业市场增速出现提升。尽管一季度的疲软最初被归咎于天气，以及库存波动等比较技术性的因素，但收缩的深度让一些经济学家猝不及防，尤其是那些年初时对2014年的前景较为乐观的人。
Economic growth is thought to have picked up in the second quarter, which ended Monday, with experts estimating a growth rate of just over 3 percent in the period. The June jobs data suggests their optimism is finally at least somewhat justified. The total number of people employers are estimated to have hired in May was revised upward by 7,000, to 224,000, while the April increase was revised upward by 22,000, to 304,000.
市场认为，在周一结束的第二季度中，经济增长会有所加速。一些专家预计，这期间的增幅略高于3%。6月的就业数据表明，他们的乐观至少在一定程度上是有依据的。雇主5月雇佣人数的估计值上调了7000人，总数为22.4万人；而4月的雇佣人数估计值在上调了2.2万人，使该月雇佣的总人数增至30.4万。
“In short, the labor market was already showing clear improvement, but it has accelerated further in recent months,” said Jim O’Sullivan, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics. “The pace in employment is pushing the unemployment rate down rapidly.”
“简而言之，就业市场已经呈现了明显的改善，而最近几个月又进一步加速了，”高频经济(High Frequency Economics)首席美国经济学家吉姆·奥沙利文(Jim O’Sullivan)说，“就业人数的增长正在推动失业率快速下降。”
The uptick in payrolls is a rare bit of good news for the White House, which has been pummeled by bad news overseas and has faced an uphill fight to portray the economy as robust when it shrank by nearly 3 percent in the first quarter.
对白宫而言，就业人数增加是少有的好消息。遭受海外坏消息打击的白宫面临着一场艰难的战斗，即在第一季度经济收缩近3%的情况下，将其描绘成强劲。