A group of doctors who performed unusually high rates of heart procedures on patients at a community hospital in Ohio settled with the Justice Department over accusations that some of the procedures were medically unnecessary, federal regulators announced on Friday.
在俄亥俄州的一家社区医院，医生给患者实施心脏手术的概率异常之高。周五，联邦监管机构宣布，面对部分过度医疗的指控，这些医生与司法部达成了和解。
The settlement covered accusations that the doctors and the hospital, then known as the EMH Regional Medical Center, had billed Medicare for unnecessary medical care from 2001 to 2006. The hospital agreed to pay $3.9 million to settle the accusations, and the physician group, the North Ohio Heart Center, agreed to pay $541,870, according to a Justice Department statement.
和解所涉及的指控还包括，2001年-2006年期间，医生和当时名为EMH区域医疗中心(EMH Regional Medical Center)的医院向医保机构过度报销医疗费用。司法部在一份声明中称，医院同意支付390万美元用于和解指控，而医师组织北俄亥俄心脏中心(North Ohio Heart Center)，同意支付541870美元进行和解。
Federal regulators had accused the doctors and the hospital of performing unnecessary procedures known as angioplasties, in which a clogged blood vessel is opened. The procedure often requires insertion of a device called a stent to keep the blood vessel from closing again.
联邦监管机构起诉医生和医院实施不必要的治疗方案——血管成形术，即打开堵塞的血管。实施这一方案常常要求插入名为支架的装置，以防止血管再次闭合。
Besides the cost to Medicare, “performing medically unnecessary cardiac procedures puts patients’ lives at risk,” said Steven M. Dettelbach, the United States attorney for the Northern District of Ohio, which was involved in the investigation. “Patient health and taxpayer dollars have to come before greed,” he said.
参与调查的美国俄亥俄州北方地区联邦检察官史蒂芬·德托巴赫(Steven M. Dettelbach)说，除了医保成本之外，“实施医学上不必要的心脏治疗方案会危及病人的生命，不能因为贪婪而置病人的健康和纳税人的钱不顾，”他说。
The high rate of heart procedures at the hospital was the subject of a front-page article in The New York Times in August 2006. Medicare patients in Elyria, Ohio, where the hospital is located, were receiving angioplasties at a rate nearly four times the national average, a figure that prompted questions from insurers and raised concerns about overtreatment.
2006年8月，该医院高概率的心脏手术成为了《纽约时报》(The New York Times)的头版文章。医院所在地俄亥俄州伊利里亚的医保病人接受血管成形术的概率接近国家平均水平的四倍。这一数据引发了保险公司的质疑和人们对过度治疗的担忧。
The concerns included whether many patients in Ohio and elsewhere were receiving expensive and inappropriate medical treatments because of the high fees the procedures generated.
这些担忧包括，俄亥俄州和其他地区的很多病人是否正在接受昂贵而不当的治疗方案，因为这些治疗方案会产生高额的费用。
The settlement represents the latest in a series of actions brought against cardiologists and hospitals for performing questionable cardiac procedures. Patients typically have a choice of treatments, and many doctors say some individuals should be treated more conservatively with medicines rather than through costly procedures.
监管机构开展了一系列遏制心脏病医生和医院实施可疑心脏手术方案的举措，该和解便是最近的举措之一。病人通常拥有多项可选的治疗方案，而且很多医生认为一些病人应采取较为保守的药物治疗而不是成本高昂的治疗方案。
At the time, the Elyria cardiologists defended their high rates as a result of an aggressive style of medicine, and the doctors continued to defend the medical care they provided. They said the procedures they performed were medically warranted but might not have met the government’s guidelines for reimbursement.
当时，伊利里亚心脏病医师们将用药方式过激作为概率过高的辩词，而且这些医生仍认为他们所提供的医疗方案是正确的。他们说，他们所提供的治疗方案是得到医学界认可的，虽然可能并不符合政府的报销政策。
“We choose to settle rather than go to court,” said Dr. John Schaeffer, the chairman of North Ohio Heart, which is now part of the hospital system, EMH Healthcare. The government did not single out any individual physicians, and neither the hospital nor the medical group said it disciplined any of the doctors.
北俄亥俄心脏中心目前是EMH医疗集团医院系统的一部分。该中心主席约翰·沙夫博士(Dr. John Schaeffer)说：“我们选择了和解而不是对簿公堂。”政府并没有针对任何个别医生，医院和医疗集团也没有处罚任何医生。
“As the physicians on the ground when these decisions were made and the procedures were performed, we felt confident we were making the correct choices for our patients,” he said in a statement on the group’s Web site. “We still do.”
他在该集团网站上的一份声明中说道，“作为驻诊医生，当我们做出决定并实施治疗方案的时候，我们深信对于病人来说，自己所做的选择是正确的。现在依旧如此。”
The former manager of the hospital’s catheterization lab, Kenny Loughner, filed a whistle-blower complaint in October 2006. Mr. Loughner, who will receive $660,859 from the settlement for alerting the government, described how doctors urged nurses and others to falsify complaints of chest pain to justify the unnecessary angioplasties. He also described the doctors’ technique of treating patients in stages, forcing patients to come back for multiple procedures.
导管实验室前任主管肯尼·劳夫纳(Kenny Loughner)于2006年10月提交了一份告发状。劳夫纳将因警示政府而获得660859美元的和解费，他表示，医生要求护士和他人通过伪造胸痛的病人主诉，来为实施不必要的血管成形术正名。他还在告发状中描述说，医生为了迫使病人回到医院接受多次治疗，采取了分期治疗病人的手段。
The government did not include the accusations in its findings, the hospital said, and they are without merit.
医院说，政府在调查中并没有提到起诉，而且这些调查也是徒劳的。
In a separate statement issued by EMH Healthcare, the system’s chief executive, Dr. Donald Sheldon, said “no patients, to our knowledge, were ever at risk, and there is no question that the patients treated had heart disease and some degree of blockage.” The hospital also said it was conducting an external peer review of its cardiac care.
在EMH医疗集团发表的另一份声明中，该集团首席执行官唐纳尔德·谢尔顿博士(Dr. Donald Sheldon)表示：“据我们所知，没有病人曾出现过相关风险。接受治疗的病人都有心脏病和一定程度的血管堵塞，这一点是毫无疑问的。”医院还表示将对其心脏病诊治方案开展外部同行评审。 