WASHINGTON — The fractious debate over a possible nuclear deal with Iran escalated on Monday as 47 Republican senators warned Iran against making an agreement with President Obama and the White House accused them of undercutting foreign policy.
华盛顿——有关一份与伊朗可能达成的核协议的激烈争论，周一出现升级。47名共和党参议员警告伊朗不要与奥巴马总统达成协议，白宫则因此指责他们破坏外交政策。
In an exceedingly rare direct congressional intervention into diplomatic negotiations, the Republicans sent an open letter addressed to “leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran” declaring that any agreement could be reversed by the next president “with the stroke of a pen.”
共和党人发出了一封致“伊朗伊斯兰共和国领导人”的公开信，信上表示，奥巴马与伊朗达成的任何协议，下一任总统“大笔一挥”就可以撤销。这种国会直接干预外交谈判的情况是极其罕见的。
The letter appeared aimed at unraveling an agreement even as negotiators grow close to reaching it. Mr. Obama, working with leaders of five other world powers, argues that the emerging agreement would be the best way to keep Iran from obtaining a nuclear bomb, while critics from both parties contend that it would be a dangerous charade that would still leave Iran with the opportunity to eventually build weapons that could destroy Israel or other foes.
这封信的目的似乎是破坏一份越来越接近达成的协议。奥巴马正在与另外五个世界大国的领导人努力促成该协议。奥巴马称，它将是阻止伊朗获得核弹的最佳办法，但两党批评人士称，这种自欺欺人的举动很危险，即使达成协议，伊朗最终仍有机会制造出能够摧毁以色列和其他敌人的核武器。
While the possible agreement has drawn bipartisan criticism, the Republican-only letter underscored the increasingly party-line flavor of the clash. Just last week, the Republican House speaker, John A. Boehner, gave Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel the platform of a joint meeting of Congress to denounce the emerging deal with Iran, and Senate Republicans briefly tried to advance legislation aimed at forcing Mr. Obama to submit it to Congress, alienating Democratic allies.
尽管这份可能达成的协议招致了两党的批评，但来自共和党的公开信则突显了这场冲突越来越明显的党派倾向。就在上周，共和党的众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)邀请以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)发言，在国会的两院联席会议上，谴责与伊朗可能达成的协议。而参议院的共和党人也曾试图推动一项法案，强迫奥巴马将协议交由国会批准，此举疏远了民主党的盟友。
The letter generated anger inside the White House, which worried about whether it could torpedo an agreement by making Iran nervous or give it an excuse to bail out.
这份信在白宫内部引发了愤怒。白宫担心这封信可能会破坏协议，因为它可能会让伊朗感到紧张，或者让伊朗有借口退出谈判。
Iran’s foreign minister responded by dismissing the letter as a “propaganda ploy,” while congressional Democrats and the White House rushed to express outrage over what they called a violation of the old tradition of leaving politics at the water’s edge.
伊朗外长对这封信不以为意，称其是一种“宣传伎俩”。而国会民主党人和白宫则迅速表达了强烈不满，称此举违背了国内政治分歧不妨碍外交的传统。
“Writing a letter like this that appeals to the hardliners in Iran is frankly just the latest in a strategy, a partisan strategy, to undermine the president’s ability to conduct foreign policy and advance our national interests around the world,” said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, citing the speech invitation issued to Mr. Netanyahu without consulting the White House.
“写这样一封迎合伊朗强硬派的信，实际上只是一项策略、一项党派策略的最新动作，目的是削弱总统实施外交政策，以及在全世界推进国家利益的能力，”白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说。他还提到了不咨询白宫，就向内塔尼亚胡发出演讲邀请的事件。
Senator Harry M. Reid of Nevada, the Democratic minority leader, attributed the letter to the “pettiness” and “spite” of the Republican opposition. “Let’s be clear,” he said on the floor. “Republicans are undermining our commander in chief while empowering the ayatollahs.”
参议院少数党领袖、内华达州民主党人哈里·M·里德(Harry M. Reid)称，这封信反映了共和党反对派的“小气”和“歹意”。“我们要看清这一点，”他在参议院说，“共和党人正在灭我国三军统帅的志气，助长伊朗阿亚图拉的威风。”
The letter, drafted by Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas and signed by most of the Republican majority in the Senate, suggested to Iran that a deal with Mr. Obama might not stick because Congress would not approve it.
这封公开信向伊朗暗示，与奥巴马达成一份协议可能不会长久，因为协议无法在国会通过。公开信由阿肯色州参议员汤姆·科顿(Tom Cotton)起草，参议院的大部分共和党议员签名。
“The next president could revoke such an executive agreement with the stroke of a pen, and future Congresses could modify the terms of the agreement at any time,” said the letter, whose existence was reported earlier by Bloomberg News.
“这样一份由行政分支签署的协议，下一任总统大笔一挥就可以废除，未来的国会也可能随时修改协议中的条款，”信中说。彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)早些时候报道了共和党发出这封信的消息。
Mr. Cotton said on Monday that he drafted the letter because Iran’s leaders might not understand the American constitutional system. Unlike a treaty, which would require ratification by a two-thirds vote of the Senate, the agreement Mr. Obama and other world leaders are negotiating with Iran would not automatically go to Congress. But members of both parties are seeking a vote.
科顿在周一表示，他起草那封信是因为伊朗领导人可能不了解美国的宪法制度。条约需要在参议院获得三分之二的投票才能获得批准。但不同于条约，奥巴马和其他一些世界领导人正在同伊朗谈判的协议，不会自动进入国会。不过两党成员都在寻求就协议进行表决。
Mr. Cotton said the terms of the emerging deal made it too risky and noted that a Republican president succeeding Mr. Obama could decide not to honor it. Speaking on Fox News, Mr. Cotton noted that the agreement under discussion would expire after 10 years. That alone would “make this deal unacceptable, dangerous to the United States and dangerous to the world.”
科顿表示，正在酝酿中的协议包含的条款使其变得很危险。他还指出，接替奥巴马的共和党总统可能会决定不履行协议。科顿在Fox新闻频道(Fox News)指出，正在商讨中的协议有效期只有十年，单单这一点“就让这份协议令人难以接受，危及美国和全世界”。
Mr. Cotton said he hoped that Democratic senators might also sign the letter. “And for that matter,” he said, “I’d encourage Hillary Clinton to join us in saying that Congress must approve any nuclear deal with Iran.”
科顿说，他希望民主党参议员也能在信上签名。“就这个问题来说，”科顿说，“我会鼓励希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)与我们一道，指出国会必须批准与伊朗签署的任何核协议。”
Seven Republican senators did not sign, including Bob Corker of Tennessee, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee; Thad Cochran of Mississippi, chairman of the Appropriations Committee; and Susan Collins of Maine and Dan Coats, members of the Intelligence Committee.
七名共和党参议员未签名，其中包括来自田纳西州的外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)主席鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)、来自密西西比州的拨款委员会(Appropriations Committee)主席萨德·科翰(Thad Cochran)、来自缅因州的苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)和情报委员会(Intelligence Committee)委员丹·科茨(Dan Coats)。
Because it is not a treaty, an agreement with Iran would not require immediate congressional action. Mr. Obama has the power under current law to lift sanctions against Iran that were imposed under his executive authority and to suspend others imposed by Congress. But to permanently lift those imposed by Congress would eventually require a vote.
因为不是条约，与伊朗签署的协议不需要国会立即采取行动。根据现行法律，奥巴马有权取消那些依据他的行政权力对伊朗实施的制裁，并暂停国会对伊朗采取的其他制裁。但要永久取消国会实施的那些制裁，最终还是需要国会进行表决。
Rather than wait, Republicans, joined by several Democrats, have drafted legislation aimed at forcing Mr. Obama to submit the agreement to Congress for a vote. But when Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican majority leader, abruptly moved to advance that legislation for a vote, several Democrats who support it balked at taking action before the talks with Iran wrapped up. Mr. McConnell backed off.
共和党没有坐等，而是起草了法案，意在逼迫奥巴马将协议提交给国会进行表决。几名民主党人也加入了他们的阵营。但当肯塔基州共和党人、参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)突然行动，要提前对该法案进行表决时，支持该法案的几名民主党人表示不愿在与伊朗的谈判结束前采取行动。麦康奈尔让步了。
Iran reacted with scorn to the letter, saying it would have no impact on the talks and suggesting that the authors were the ones who did not understand the American system of government in which the president conducts foreign policy.
伊朗对公开信嗤之以鼻，称其不会影响谈判，并表示该信的作者不了解美国由总统制定外交政策的政府体制。
“In our view, this letter has no legal value and is mostly a propaganda ploy,” Javad Zarif, the Iranian foreign minister, said. “It is very interesting that while negotiations are still in progress and while no agreement has been reached, some political pressure groups are so afraid even of the prospect of an agreement that they resort to unconventional methods, unprecedented in diplomatic history.”
“在我们看来，这封信不具有法律价值，主要是宣传伎俩，”伊朗外长贾瓦德·扎里夫(Javad Zarif)说。“很有意思的是，在谈判仍在进行中且尚未达成任何协议时，一些政治压力集团对于可能会达成协议就如此害怕，以至于诉诸反常规的手段，这在外交史上是前所未有的。”