CAIRO — For a moment, at least, American and European diplomats trying to defuse the volatile standoff in Egypt thought they had a breakthrough.
开罗——试图平息埃及动荡对峙局势的欧美外交官们曾一度以为，自己已取得突破。
As thousands of Islamist supporters of the ousted president, Mohamed Morsi, braced for a crackdown by the military-imposed government, a senior European diplomat, Bernardino León, told the Islamists of “indications” from the leadership that within hours it would free two imprisoned opposition leaders. In turn, the Islamists had agreed to reduce the size of two protest camps by about half.
在被罢免总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)成千上万的伊斯兰派支持者做好准备应对军方任命的政府的镇压之际，欧洲资深外交官贝纳迪诺·莱昂(Bernardino León)告诉伊斯兰派，领导层“有意”在几小时后释放两名被关押的反对派领导人。作为回应，伊斯兰派同意把两个抗议营地的规模缩减至一半。
An hour passed, and nothing happened. Another hour passed, and still no one had been released.
一个小时过去了，什么都没有发生。又一个小时过去了，仍没有释放任何人。
The Americans heightened the pressure. Two senators visiting Cairo, John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, met with Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, the officer who ousted Mr. Morsi and appointed the new government, and the interim prime minister, Hazem el-Beblawi, and pushed for the release of the two prisoners. But the Egyptians brushed them off.
美国加大施压力度。亚利桑那州参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和南卡罗莱纳州参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)造访开罗，与阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西(Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)上将会面并敦促释放两名囚犯。塞西曾一手罢免穆尔西并任命了新政府。他们还与临时总理哈齐姆·贝布拉维(Hazem el-Beblawi)会面。但埃及方面对于两位参议员的要求置之不理。
“You could tell people were itching for a fight,” Mr. Graham recalled in an interview. “The prime minister was a disaster. He kept preaching to me: ‘You can’t negotiate with these people. They’ve got to get out of the streets and respect the rule of law.’ I said: ‘Mr. Prime Minister, it’s pretty hard for you to lecture anyone on the rule of law. How many votes did you get? Oh, yeah, you didn’t have an election.’ ”
“你能感觉到来自民众的浓浓战意，”格雷厄姆在一次采访中回忆道。“那个总理非常糟糕，他不停向我宣讲：‘和这些人没法谈判。他们应该让出街道，尊重法治。’我回答：‘总理先生，可能不应该由您来讲法治。您得了几票呢？哦，对了，你们没进行选举。’”
General Sisi, Mr. Graham said, seemed “a little bit intoxicated by power.”
格雷厄姆说，塞西似乎“有点沉醉于权力之中”。
The senators walked out that day, Aug. 6, gloomy and convinced that a violent showdown was looming. But the diplomats still held out hope, believing they had persuaded Egypt’s government at least not to declare the talks a failure.
8月6日那天，参议员结束会见后，满心失望，认为一场暴力冲突即将爆发。但外交官们仍心存希望，认为埃及政府至少不会宣布会谈失败。
The next morning, the government issued a statement declaring that diplomatic efforts had been exhausted and blaming the Islamists for any casualties from the coming crackdown. A week later, Egyptian forces opened a ferocious assault that so far has killed more than 1,000 protesters.
第二天早晨，政府方面发表声明宣布，外交努力已无济于事，并警告伊斯兰派要对即将到来的镇压活动产生的伤亡负责。一周后，埃及军队开始残暴地袭击抗议者，死亡人数目前已达1000多人。
All of the efforts of the United States government, all the cajoling, the veiled threats, the high-level envoys from Washington and the 17 personal phone calls by Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, failed to forestall the worst political bloodletting in modern Egyptian history. The generals in Cairo felt free to ignore the Americans first on the prisoner release and then on the statement, in a cold-eyed calculation that they would not pay a significant cost — a conclusion bolstered when President Obama responded by canceling a joint military exercise but not $1.5 billion in annual aid.
美国政府的所有努力，那些劝诱、隐晦的威胁、华盛顿派出的多位高级特使，以及国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)亲自进行的17次电话沟通，都没能阻止埃及现代史上最严重的政治流血冲突。开罗的将军们之所以能够对美国开始提出的囚犯释放及后来的声明措辞要求置若罔闻，在于他们已经进行冷静计算，自己不会为此付出很大代价——后来奥巴马总统作为回应取消了联合军事演习，但仍保留每年15亿美元的援助，这更印证了他们的结论。
The violent crackdown has left Mr. Obama in a no-win position: risk a partnership that has been the bedrock of Middle East peace for 35 years, or stand by while longtime allies try to hold on to power by mowing down opponents. From one side, the Israelis, Saudis and other Arab allies have lobbied him to go easy on the generals in the interest of thwarting what they see as the larger and more insidious Islamist threat. From the other, an unusual mix of conservatives and liberals has urged him to stand more forcefully against the sort of autocracy that has been a staple of Egyptian life for decades.
暴力镇压让奥巴马左右为难：要么放弃过去35年间奠定了中东和平的伙伴关系，要么在长期盟友为手握大权而屠戮异己之际袖手旁观。一方面，以色列、沙特和其他阿拉伯盟友游说奥巴马放这些将军一马，以挫败在他们看来更为严重、危险的伊斯兰派威胁。另一方面，保守派和自由派罕见结盟，敦促奥巴马坚定反对在过去几十年中主导埃及的专制制度。
For now the administration has decided to keep the close relationship with the Egyptian military fundamentally unchanged. But the death toll is climbing, the streets are descending into chaos, and the government and the Islamists are vowing to escalate. It is unclear if the military’s new government can reimpose a version of the old order now that the public believes street protests have toppled two leaders in less than three years, or if, after winning democratic elections, the Islamists will ever again compliantly retreat.
目前，奥巴马当局已决定，基本保持与埃及军队的密切关系。但死亡人数在不断攀升，街道陷入混乱，政府和伊斯兰派都誓言战斗到底。公众既然认为街头抗议已经在不到3年时间里推翻了2个领导人，在此情况下，军队支持的新政府能否重建旧日秩序，或在赢得民主选举之后，伊斯兰派能否做出退让，前景不甚明了。
As Mr. Obama acknowledged in a statement on Thursday, the American response turns not only on humanitarian values but also on national interests. A country consumed by civil strife may no longer function as a stabilizing ally in a volatile region.
奥巴马在周四发表的一份声明中承认，美国的回应不仅取决于人道主义价值观，更取决于国家利益。一个疲于应付国内冲突的国家也许无法再充当动荡地区的维稳盟友。
An Enduring Headache
长久的头疼问题
Mr. Obama has found Egypt’s tumultuous political transition a headache for more than two years. Accused of sticking for too long by President Hosni Mubarak, the longtime ruler in Egypt who was ousted by a popular uprising in 2011, and then criticized when he later abandoned him, Mr. Obama gambled on Mr. Morsi, the Muslim Brotherhood leader elected a year ago. He found Mr. Morsi a useful and pragmatic partner in handling issues like a violent flare-up in Gaza. But Mr. Obama became convinced that the Egyptian was not being inclusive enough at home to stabilize his own country.
在过去2年中，纷争不断的埃及政治过渡一直让奥巴马头疼。奥巴马先是被指责在太长时间里支持胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)总统，随后又因抛弃了他，而饱受批评。这位埃及的长期统治者最终在2011年被公众起义推翻。奥巴马后来把希望都寄托在一年前当选的穆斯林兄弟会领导人穆尔西身上，发现他在处理加沙地带暴力冲突等问题时是一个有用务实的伙伴。但奥巴马渐渐认识到，这位埃及领导人没有海纳百川的胸怀，因而无法稳定自己的国家。
When Secretary of State John Kerry visited Cairo in the spring, he urged Mr. Morsi to reach out to his opposition. If not, Mr. Kerry warned, Mr. Morsi would set the stage for another uprising, this time against himself. But the implied threat only hardened Mr. Morsi’s resolve not to bend, his aides said.
国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在春天访问了开罗，并敦促穆尔西向反对派伸出和解之手。否则，克里警告，还会有一场起义发生，而这次就会针对穆尔西了。但这个含蓄的威胁只是坚定了穆尔西不屈服的决心，他的助手说。
Mr. Morsi’s failure to incorporate other factions, his habit of demonizing his critics as part of a treasonous conspiracy and a near-calamitous economic crisis combined to fire up opposition to the Islamists, which spilled out in street protests. Hard-liners with the military and intelligence services who always despised the Muslim Brotherhood saw that the group’s experiment in power might have left it more vulnerable than at any time in its eight decades underground.
穆尔西未能与其他派系展开合作，而且他还习惯于把自己的批评者妖魔化为叛国阴谋的参与者，此外，埃及的经济危机十分严重，这些因素共同煽动了人们对伊斯兰主义者的反对情绪，并最终发展成了街头抗议活动。军方和情报机构中的强硬分子一直都不喜欢穆兄会，他们认为，穆兄会的掌权试验或许会使它比处于地下的80年间的任何时候都更脆弱。
The Obama administration warned the military against stepping in, noting that a coup would require an aid cutoff under American law. But on July 3 the military moved in, detaining Mr. Morsi and rounding up scores of his allies.
奥巴马政府曾警告军方不要插手，并表示根据美国法律，倘若发生政变，美国就必须切断援助。但在7月3日，军方开始插手干预，他们拘留了穆尔西，并逮捕了他的众多盟友。
Mr. Obama made no public comments, opting instead for tempered written statements. He skirted the aid law by refusing to determine whether Mr. Morsi’s ouster constituted a coup, while Mr. Kerry and Mr. Hagel pressed the military to restore civilian governance as soon as possible.
奥巴马没有发表任何公开评论，而是选择了较为温和的书面声明。他通过拒绝确认罢黜穆尔西一事是否为政变，绕开了与援助有关的法律条文。同时，克里和哈格尔也都在敦促埃及军方尽快恢复文职政府。
Although Mr. Obama agreed not to restrict the aid, he postponed the delivery of four F-16 fighter jets. At the time, officials discussed pulling out of joint military exercises called Bright Star scheduled for September, but the White House opted to wait to see if the generals would follow through on their threat to clear out pro-Morsi protesters.
虽然奥巴马同意不限制援助，但他推迟了四架F-16战斗机的送货。当时，官员曾讨论要取消原定于今年9月举行的代号“明星”(Bright Star)的联合军事演习，但是白宫决定等等看，看军方将领是否会把要清除支持穆尔西的抗议者的威胁付诸实践。
Western governments took a wait-and-see approach even after the military committed its first mass killing, shooting more than 60 supporters of Mr. Morsi at a sit-in on July 8. Western diplomats did not engage in earnest until July 24, when General Sisi, in dark sunglasses and military regalia, delivered a fiery speech asking the public to turn out for demonstrations giving him a “mandate” to take on the Islamists. Security forces killed 80 more Morsi supporters in their second mass shooting on the day of the demonstration.
7月8日，埃及军方制造了首次大规模枪杀事件，正在静坐抗议的穆尔西支持者中有60多人中弹。此后，西方政府仍在采用等等看的策略。直到7月24日以前，西方外交官们一直没有认真地考虑埃及的问题。那天，带着墨镜、佩带着勋章的塞西上将发表了一次言辞激烈的演讲，要求公众上街游行示威，以表示给予他向伊斯兰主义者开战的“授权”。示威的当天，保安部队在其制造的第二次大规模枪杀事件中打死了80多名穆尔西支持者。
The next morning, Morsi aides and Brotherhood leaders say, their phones began ringing with American and European diplomats fearing an imminent blood bath.
次日早晨，穆尔西的助手和穆兄会领导人称，他们开始接到美欧外交官打来的电话，这些外交官害怕即将发生更大的流血事件。
The administration enlisted people on opposite sides of the contest unfolding in Egypt. Diplomats from Qatar, a regional patron of the Muslim Brotherhood, agreed to influence the Islamists. The United Arab Emirates, determined opponents of the Islamists, were brought in to help reach out to the new authorities.
美国政府寻求在埃及动乱中处于相反立场的人的帮助。卡塔尔外交官同意对伊斯兰主义派施加影响，该国是穆斯林兄弟会的地区赞助者。而阿拉伯联合酋长国被请来帮忙与埃及新政权进行沟通，因为该国是伊斯兰主义派的坚定反对者。
But while the Qataris and Emiratis talked about “reconciliation” in front of the Americans, Western diplomats here said they believed the Emiratis were privately urging the Egyptian security forces to crack down.
但是，这里的西方外交官说，虽然卡塔尔人和阿联酋人在美国人面前谈论“和解”，但他们认为阿联酋人其实在私下敦促埃及保安部队进行镇压。
Building Connections
建立关系
Mr. Hagel tried to forge a connection with General Sisi, the defense minister who has become the country’s de facto leader. Mr. Hagel, a 66-year-old decorated Vietnam War veteran, felt he and General Sisi, a 58-year-old graduate of the United States Army War College in Pennsylvania, “clicked right away” when they met in April, an American official said.
哈格尔希望能与埃及国防部长塞西建立关系，塞西已成为埃及的实际领导人。66岁的哈格尔是一名得过勋章的越战老兵，而58岁的塞西则毕业于位于宾夕法尼亚州的美国陆军战争学院(United States Army War College)。一名美国官员说，哈格尔在四月见到塞西时就觉得自己与他“一拍即合”。
In a series of phone calls, Mr. Hagel pressed General Sisi for a transition back to civilian rule. They talked nearly every other day, usually for an hour or an hour and a half, lengthened by the use of interpreters. But General Sisi complained that the Obama administration did not fully appreciate that the Islamists posed a threat to Egypt and its army. The general asked Mr. Hagel to convey the danger to Mr. Obama, American officials said.
哈格尔在一连串的电话通话中敦促塞西让埃及恢复文职政府统治。他们几乎每隔一天通一次电话，时间长达一小时或一个半小时，由于要使用翻译，所以谈话时间的长度增加。但塞西抱怨说，奥巴马政府并不完全了解伊斯兰主义者对埃及和埃及军方造成的威胁。美国官员称，塞西要求哈格尔向奥巴马转达这种危险。
“Their whole sales pitch to us is that the Muslim Brotherhood is a group of terrorists,” said one American officer, who was not authorized to speak publicly about the dialogue.
“他们向我们做宣传的调子是，穆兄会是一群恐怖主义分子，”一名美国官员说。该官员没有被授权公开谈论此次对话。
American and European diplomats hoped to reinforce the few officials in Egypt’s interim cabinet who favored an inclusive approach, led by Mohamed ElBaradei, the vice president and Nobel Peace Prize-winning former diplomat. After the second massacre, on July 26, Mr. ElBaradei wanted to resign, but Mr. Kerry talked him out of it, arguing that he was the most potent, if not the only, voice for restraint in the government.
美国和欧洲的外交官希望能加强埃及临时内阁中支持包容政策的几名官员的力量，这些人的领导者是埃及临时副总统、曾获诺贝尔和平奖的前外交官穆罕默德·巴拉迪(Mohamed ElBaradei)。7月26日，在第二次大屠杀发生后，巴拉迪曾想辞职，但克里使他打消了这个念头。克里辩称，即便巴拉迪不是政府中唯一呼吁克制的声音，他也是最有力的声音。
But General Sisi never trusted Mr. ElBaradei, and on the other side was a small core of military officers close to the general who saw a chance to finally rid Egypt of the Muslim Brotherhood. Among them were Gen. Mohammed al-Tohami, a mentor and father figure to General Sisi and now head of the intelligence service, and Gen. Mahmoud Hegazy, the general’s protégé and chosen successor as head of military intelligence. And with no serious reprisals against Egypt after two mass killings, many analysts here argue that the hard-liners could only feel emboldened.
但是，塞西从不信任巴拉迪，而另一边则是与塞西关系密切的一小群军官，他们看到了一个把穆兄会最终赶出埃及的机会。这群人中包括情报机构目前的负责人穆罕默德·图哈米(Mohammed al-Tohami)上将，对于塞西来说，图哈米既是他的提携者又像是父亲。此外还有塞西的门生、军事情报方面的既定负责人马哈茂德·赫贾齐(Mahmoud Hegazy)上将。在两次大屠杀之后，埃及并没有遭到严重后果，这里的许多分析师都认为，那些强硬政策鼓吹者们可能因此胆子更大了。
Mr. Kerry sent his deputy, William J. Burns, to Cairo, where he and a European Union counterpart scrambled to de-escalate the crisis.
克里派遣副国务卿威廉·J·伯恩斯(William J. Burns)前往开罗，他与一名官职相当的欧盟官员一起，在这里手忙脚乱地试图缓解危机。
Under a plan they worked out, the Muslim Brotherhood would limit demonstrations to two squares, thin out crowds and publicly condemn violence. The government would issue a similar statement, commit to an inclusive political process allowing any party to compete in elections and, as a sign of good faith, release Saad al-Katatni, the Muslim Brotherhood speaker of the dissolved Parliament, and Aboul-Ela Maadi, founder of a more moderate Islamist party. Both faced implausible charges of instigating violence, and Western diplomats felt that before the takeover, Mr. Katatni in particular had proved himself a pragmatic voice for compromise.
按照他们制定的方案，穆兄会将把示威活动限制在两个广场内，减少参加示威的人数，并公开谴责暴力行为。政府则将发布一条类似声明，承诺推行包容的政治程序，允许所有党派参加选举，而且为了表示诚意，还要释放被解散的议会的发言人、穆兄会成员萨阿德·卡塔特尼(Saad al-Katatni)，以及一个更温和的伊斯兰党派的创立者阿布-埃拉·马阿迪(Aboul-Ela Maadi)。两人都面临着煽动暴力行动的指控，但这些指控不太可信。西方外交官认为，在军方接管政权前，特别是卡塔特尼，已证明自己是一个推行和解的实用主义者。
But on Aug. 4, the interim government surprised the diplomats by bringing charges for incitement to murder against the Brotherhood’s supreme guide, Mohamed Badie, who was in hiding, and Khairat el-Shater, its most influential leader, who had been detained.
但8月4日，临时政府让西方外交官们深感震惊，政府指控穆兄会最高领袖穆罕默德·巴迪耶(Mohammed Badie)及穆兄会最具影响力的领导人海拉特·沙泰尔(Khairat el-Shater) 煽动谋杀，前者已经躲藏起来，后者则已被关押。
Adding to the shock of the new charges, they came just hours before Mr. Burns and his European partner, Mr. León, were allowed to see Mr. Shater. Mr. Shater embraced the need for dialogue, but did not endorse the proposals.
比新罪名更令人震惊的是，过渡政府在伯恩斯及其欧洲合作伙伴莱昂获准与沙泰尔见面的几个小时前提出了指控。沙泰尔表示有必要进行对话，但他不支持那两位外交官的提案。
Still, the diplomats grew hopeful that they had gotten through to the government. On the morning of Aug. 6, Brotherhood leaders and diplomats said, Mr. León called Amr Darrag, an adviser to Mr. Morsi and top negotiator for the Islamist coalition, and told him to expect Mr. Katatni and Mr. Maadi to be released within hours. When nothing happened, Mr. Darrag called Mr. León back, the Brotherhood officials said. Do not worry, Mr. León said, arguing that the new government must have put the release off by a day to avoid the appearance of bowing to American pressure.
尽管如此，外交官们的希望有所增长，因为他们已经与临时政府取得了联系。穆兄会领导人及外交官们表示，莱昂在8月6日早晨与穆尔西的顾问、伊斯兰主义者联盟的首席谈判代表阿姆鲁·达拉克(Amr Darrag)通了电话，告诉他政府会在几小时内释放卡塔特尼和马阿迪。但释放没有发生之后，达拉克把电话打回给莱昂，穆兄会官员说。莱昂表示，不用担心，称新政府一定是将释放日期推迟了一天，以避免让人们觉得他们屈从于美国的压力。
Heightened Tensions
紧张局势加剧
Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham arrived in Cairo amid increasing tensions. They went first to see Ambassador Anne W. Patterson. “You could see it on her face, that nobody’s listening,” Mr. Graham said. He said administration officials asked them to press for the release of the two Islamists and to push the Brotherhood to pull people off the street.
麦凯恩和格雷厄姆在局势日趋紧张之际抵达开罗。他们先去见了美国驻埃及大使安妮·W·帕特森(Anne W. Patterson)。格雷厄姆说，“你能从她脸上看出，没人听我们的。”他表示，美国政府给他们的任务是，敦促埃及政府释放上述两名伊斯兰主义者，并迫使穆兄会把人群从街道上撤出来。
When the senators asked government officials to release the Islamist leaders, one woman on the Egyptian side stormed out. The senators warned that the United States would ultimately cut off aid if the military did not set elections and amend the Constitution.
当参议员们要求埃及政府官员释放伊斯兰派领导人时，一名埃及的女议员愤怒离席。参议员们警告说，如果埃及军方不安排选举，修改宪法，美国最终会切断援助。
Mr. Graham recalled arguing with General Sisi. “If Morsi had to stand for re-election anytime soon, he’d lose badly,” the senator remembered saying. “Do you agree?”
格雷厄姆记起了与塞西的争论。“如果穆尔西近期需要再次参加竞选，他会输得非常惨，”格雷厄姆记得自己这样说。“你同意吗？”
“Oh, absolutely,” the general answered.
塞西回答道，“绝对的。”
“Then what you’re doing now is making him a martyr,” Mr. Graham said. “It’s no longer about how badly they ruled the country and how they marginalized the democratic institutions. It’s now about you.”
“那你现在所做的就是把他变成殉难者，”格雷厄姆说。“这不再是关于他们治理国家有多差劲的问题，也不是关于他们如何排斥民主制度的问题。现在是你的作用的问题。”
Mr. Hagel made a last stab at holding off violence. He called General Sisi late on the afternoon of Aug. 9, and they talked for 90 minutes. “Secretary Hagel was strongly urging restraint,” said an American official briefed on the conversation. The secretary recited the same talking points he had been delivering for weeks: avoid violence, respect freedom of assembly and move toward an inclusive political transition.
哈格尔为阻止暴力事件做出最后的努力。他在8月9日下午晚些时候与塞西通电话，两人谈了90分钟。一名了解对话情况的美国官员说，“国防部长哈格尔强烈敦促埃及军方克制。”哈格尔重申了他几个周来一直在提的要点：避免暴力事件，尊重集会自由，走向包容性的政治过渡。
But within the Egyptian government, the only real debate was about tactics and blame. Mohamed Ibrahim, the interior minister under Mr. Morsi who had kept his job by refusing to protect the Islamists, was convinced that brute force was the only way to break up sit-ins by tens of thousands of Morsi supporters. But diplomats and Egyptian officials said Mr. Ibrahim was worried that if the assaults went badly he might be held up as a scapegoat.
但在埃及政府内部，唯一实际性的争论围绕的是驱散人群的战术和谁会被指责的问题。穆尔西政府的内政部长穆罕默德·易卜拉欣(Mohamed Ibrahim)因为拒绝保护伊斯兰主义者而保住了自己的职位，他确信，动用武力是驱散数万名穆尔西支持者参加的静坐抗议活动的唯一方法。但外交官们和埃及官员表示，易卜拉欣担心，如果武力行动进行得不顺利，他可能会成为替罪羊。
Last Sunday, Interior Ministry officials told journalists that the police would move in at dawn to choke off the sit-ins, cutting off food and water and gradually escalating nonlethal force. But overnight, diplomats said, Mr. Ibrahim reconsidered, worried that a gradual approach would expose the police to Brotherhood retaliation, for which he could be blamed.
上周日，内政部官员告诉记者，警方将在清晨采取行动，包围静坐抗议者，切断他们的食物和水供应，逐步加大非致命武器的使用。但外交官表示，易卜拉欣在夜间进行了重新考虑，担心逐步的驱散方式会导致警方遭受穆兄会的报复，他会因此受到责备。
Two days later, Mr. Ibrahim and the government told Mr. ElBaradei that they had a new plan to minimize casualties: maximum force to get it over with quickly, the Western diplomats said. And the military had agreed to support the police. But the attack the next morning left more than 600 dead, according to official figures that soon grew. By midday, Mr. ElBaradei had resigned.
西方的外交官说，两天后，易卜拉欣和临时政府告诉巴拉迪，他们有一个最大限度减少伤亡的新方案：用最大的武力迅速解决问题。军方同意支持警察的行动。但据官方数据显示，次日清晨的袭击造成600多人死亡，而且死亡人数很快在增加。到中午时，巴拉迪已宣布辞职。
As images of Egyptian security forces opening fire flickered across television screens in Washington, Mr. Hagel called General Sisi again and warned him that the violence had put “important elements of our longstanding defense cooperation at risk,” as he put it in a statement afterward. Mr. Kerry made the same points in tandem to the interim foreign minister, Nabil Fahmy.
当华盛顿的电视屏幕上闪现着埃及安全部队开火的影像时，哈格尔再次与塞西通话，并警告他，暴力事件已经让“我们长期以来的国防合作中的重要元素面临危险”，正如他在后来的一份声明中所表述的。克里接着也向临时政府的外交部长纳比尔·法赫米(Nabil Fahmy)表达了同样的观点。
Mr. Obama announced the cancellation of Bright Star exercises without saying anything about the aid. As of Friday, American officials were still working phone lines to Cairo. Mr. Kerry talked with his Egyptian counterpart, urging the government to appoint an envoy to negotiate directly with the Islamists, United States officials said. But the diplomats and military officers in the two countries seemed to be talking past each other.
奥巴马宣布取消“明星”军事演习，但没有提及援助问题。截至周五，美国官员仍在通过电话与开罗方面进行沟通。美国官员称，克里与埃及外长通了电话，敦促临时政府委派代表直接与伊斯兰主义者谈判。但两国的外交官员及军方官员似乎各执一词。
“The million-dollar question now,” said one American military officer, “is where is the threshold of violence for cutting ties?”
一名美国军官说，“现在的重要问题是，促使美国切断关系的最高暴力限度是什么？”