KANDAHAR, Afghanistan — Floating over the tightly clustered homes and streets buzzing with rickshaws is the most visible symbol of the fading Western legacy in this onetime fortress of Taliban rule: a giant white balloon, bristling with photo lenses and listening equipment. The surveillance blimp is tethered to the former home of the Taliban leader, Mullah Omar, which for the past 13 years has been a base for the C.I.A. and the Afghan paramilitary forces.
阿富汗坎大哈——在这座曾经的塔利班重镇，西方影响力正在日益衰减，最明显的标志，是在密集的民居和人力车嗡嗡作响的街道上方飘扬的一个巨大的白色气球，上面满是相机镜头和侦听设备。这个监视气球拴在前塔利班领袖毛拉·奥马尔(Mullah Omar)的故居，过去13年中，该建筑成为了中情局(CIA)和阿富汗准军事部队的一个基地。
Officials say there are no immediate plans to close that complex, the last Western military base inside the city limits. And so, what remains of the Western presence is marked by this all-seeing eye, watching over Afghanistan’s second city as it jolts into an uncertain post-American future.
该设施是城内的最后一个西方军事基地，官员们说，近期没有关闭它的计划。因此，这个悬在阿富汗第二大城市的“全知之眼”，成了西方存在仅剩的标志，目睹着城市摇摇晃晃地迈向一个不确定的后美国未来。
For years, Kandahar has been a testing ground for Western counterinsurgency ideas. The first American troops arrived in late 2001, seizing control of a city where Mullah Omar had once, in a dramatic flourish, wrapped himself in a sacred cloak and declared himself the “leader of the faithful.”
多年以来，坎大哈一直是西方反叛乱想法的试验场。2001年底，第一支美国部队抵达这里，占领了城市。在充满戏剧性的全盛时期，奥马尔一度把自己裹在一件神圣的外衣里，宣称自己是“信徒的领袖”。
Now, the Americans and other foreign troops are gone, mostly, departing in a procession of planes that has emptied Kandahar Air Field, the sprawling military mini-city on the city’s eastern edge. They leave behind a skittish city, torn between fear and hope. 
现在，美国和其他外国军队基本上都离开了，他们乘坐着一架架飞机飞走，留下空荡荡的坎大哈机场，那是一座在城市东部边缘蔓延的小型军事城镇。他们还留下一座不安分的城市，在恐惧和希望之间徘徊。
A fragile peace is holding, with heavily armed police on virtually every corner, but there is also a sense of regret for the lost opportunities of the past decade, and apprehension that what gains have occurred may be rapidly wiped away.
城市维持着脆弱的和平，几乎每一个角落都有全副武装的警察，但对于过去十年失去的机会，人们也抱有遗憾之感，他们还担心，已经取得的成果可能会迅速化为乌有。
Gleaming four-wheel-drive vehicles pack the courtyards of auto showrooms on the city’s outskirts, where the lines of dust-smeared shops meet the sandy desert. These sport utility vehicles, many of them armor-plated, are the transport of choice for the minority of Afghans who have profited handsomely since 2001 — the contractors and con men, politicians and drug smugglers. The most powerful of them have fit several of those descriptions at once, although not all have survived to tell the tale.
在城市的郊区，一排排覆满尘土的店面与沙地荒漠接壤，汽车展销厅里却停满了锃亮的四轮驱动车。这些运动型多用途汽车(SUV)很多都有装甲，是少数阿富汗人首选的交通工具。这部分人自2001年来获利颇丰，他们是承包商和骗子，政客和毒贩。最有势力的人同时兼具几种身份，虽然不是所有这样的人都能幸存下来讲述他们的往事。
A giant photograph over a traffic junction in the city center commemorates the half-shaven figure of Ahmed Wali Karzai, a half brother of the former president Hamid Karzai who was for many years considered the political godfather of Kandahar. He died in 2011, shot by a trusted security guard who struck as Mr. Karzai walked out of his own bathroom, for reasons that are not fully understood.
在城市交通枢纽中心的上方，悬挂着一张巨幅纪念照片，上面是艾哈迈德·瓦利·卡尔扎伊(Ahmed Wali Karzai)剃去一些胡须的模样。前总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)多年来被认为坎大哈的政治教父，他就是其同父异母的弟弟。他死于2011年，当时他正走出自己的浴室，遭到一个他信赖的安全警卫袭击。袭击原因迄今不完全清楚。
Tooryalai Wesa has been luckier. Sitting behind a cluttered desk in his wood-paneled office, Mr. Wesa, the provincial governor, claimed to have survived 10 Taliban attacks since coming to power in 2008, most recently in July when suicide bombers tried to storm his compound during a meeting with American commanders. Still, Mr. Wesa, a Canadian-educated former aid worker, was determined to put a brave face on Afghanistan’s coming “transition decade,” as Western donors call it. He outlined his ambitious plans to turn the military air base into a regional aviation hub, and insisted that Kandahar had become a more prosperous, safer city, with new roads, sewage systems and mobile phone networks.
托亚莱·维萨(Tooryalai Wesa)比较幸运。他坐在木作墙面的办公室里，前面是一张凌乱的办公桌。维萨说，自2008年担任省长以来，他已经历过塔利班的10次袭击，最近一次是今年7月，携带炸弹的自杀式袭击者试图冲进他的办公室，当时他正在与一些美军指挥官开会。尽管如此，他仍然决心勇敢面对阿富汗即将到来的“转型十年”——这是西方捐助者的说法。维萨在加拿大接受教育，曾是一名援助工作者。他简述了自己雄心勃勃的计划：将空军基地改建成一个地区航空枢纽，他还坚称，坎大哈已经变得更加繁荣、更加安全了，有了新的道路、污水处理系统和移动电话网络。
“Slowly but surely, things are happening,” he said. “But 10 years is not enough for a country coming out of war.”
“进展很缓慢，但肯定是有进展，”他说。“但是一个国家要走出战争，10年时间是不够的。”
Gul Agha Sherzai had other concerns. Coughing and spluttering during a meeting at his palatial home a few streets away, he reached for a cigarette. “My son is getting married,” he said, excusing his groggy state. “So I was up until 4 in the morning.”
古尔·阿迦·赛沙(Gul Agha Sherzai)担心的事情很不一样。他在数条街之外的自家豪宅里开会，又是咳嗽又是吐痰，然后伸手拿了一支烟。“我的儿子要结婚了，”他如此解释自己昏昏沉沉的状态。“我直到凌晨4点才睡。”
A burly former warlord of famously lavish tastes, Mr. Sherzai stormed into Kandahar as the Taliban fled in 2001 and quickly established himself as an important American ally. Money and influence followed.
这个身形魁梧的昔日军阀以奢华品味闻名。塔利班于2001年逃离时，赛沙冲进坎大哈，迅速确立了自己作为美国重要盟友的地位。金钱和影响力随之而来。
His relatives won lucrative security contracts to protect the city air base, and Mr. Sherzai’s influence steadily grew until he stood for this year’s presidential election. That failed, and now, finding himself in the political wilderness, he has cast himself in the unlikely garb of a warrior for democracy.
他的亲属获得了利润丰厚的安保合同，来保护该城的空军基地，而赛沙的影响力也在不断增长，一直到他参加今年的总统选举。选举失败了，如今身为在野派的他令人意外地披上了民主战士的外衣。
“Governance is broken in this country,” he said sternly. “We want schools, not graveyards for the dead.”
“这个国家的治理机制失灵了，”他严肃地说。“我们希望有学校，而不是掩埋死者的墓地。”
Still, Mr. Sherzai had clearly done well. He sat in an ornately decorated reception hall dominated by a chandelier the size of a small car. A fleet of armored S.U.V.s was parked outside.
尽管如此，赛沙显然生活得很好。他坐在一个装饰华丽的接待大厅里，天花板上的吊灯像小型汽车那么大。外面停着一个装甲SUV车队。