WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. — Vice President Mike Pence on Sunday described North Korea’s failed missile test as “a provocation” that highlighted the risks plaguing both the region and the United States, as the White House said President Trump had an array of military, diplomatic and other options to respond.
佛罗里达州西棕榈滩——副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)周日说，朝鲜失败的导弹试射是一种“挑衅”，突显了该区域和美国面临的风险，白宫方面表示，特朗普总统将从军事、外交等方面采取一系列回应。
“This morning’s provocation from the North is just the latest reminder of the risks each one of you face each and every day in the defense of the freedom of the people of South Korea and the defense of America in this part of the world,” Mr. Pence said at an Easter dinner at Yongsan military base in Seoul, South Korea, where he was beginning a 10-day tour of Asia.
“今天上午朝鲜进行的挑衅，再次提醒你们，为了捍卫韩国人民的自由，以及捍卫美国在这个地区的利益，你们每个人每天要面对怎样的风险。”彭斯在韩国首尔龙山军事基地参加复活节晚宴时说。这是他对亚洲为期10天的访问的第一站。
Mr. Pence said he had spoken with Mr. Trump, who asked him to convey to the troops stationed in South Korea that “we’re proud of you and we’re grateful for your service.”
彭斯说，他和特朗普通过了电话，特朗普要求他向驻韩国的美军转达“我们为你们感到骄傲，我们感谢你们在这里服军役”。
Earlier, aboard Air Force Two as Mr. Pence made his way to South Korea, a White House foreign policy adviser said the United States had had good intelligence about the launch both in advance and afterward, an intriguing statement that suggested the United States had the information it would have needed to take covert action against the latest launch, even as it left open the question of whether such interference occurred.
早些时候，在彭斯登上“空军二号”前往韩国之前，白宫的一名外交政策顾问说，在朝鲜发射导弹前后，美国都掌握了足够的情报。这是一个让人感兴趣的说法，显示美国拥有可以对这次导弹发射采取秘密行动的信息，虽然这种干预是否真的发生过还是一个问题。
K. T. McFarland, Mr. Trump’s deputy national security adviser, declined on Sunday to say whether the United States had sabotaged North Korea’s launch.
特朗普的副国家安全顾问K·T·麦克法兰德(K. T. McFarland)周日拒绝透露美国是否破坏了朝鲜的发射活动。
“You know we can’t talk about secret intelligence and things that might have been done, covert operations that might have happened,” Ms. McFarland, who was at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago retreat here in Florida and briefed him Saturday night on the launch, told Fox News. “So, I really have no comment on that, and nor should I.”
“你知道我们不能谈论机密情报和可能做过的事情、可能采取的秘密行动。所以我真的无可奉告，也不应该置评。”麦克法兰德对福克斯新闻说。当时在特朗普位于佛罗里达州的马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)，向特朗普通报周六晚上朝鲜发射导弹的情况。
“The threat is upon us,” Ms. McFarland added. “This is something President Trump is going to deal with in the first year.”
“我们面临着威胁，”麦克法兰德补充道。“这是特朗普总统在上任第一年需要处理的事情。”
Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, said the United States was developing an array of potential responses to North Korea’s latest move, in consultation with China.
特朗普的国家安全顾问、陆军中将H· R·麦克马斯特(H.R. McMaster)表示，美国正在制定一系列针对朝鲜最新行动的应对措施，并且在与中国进行磋商。
“This latest missile test just fits into a pattern of provocative and destabilizing and threatening behavior on the part of the North Korean regime, and I think there’s an international consensus now — including the Chinese and the Chinese leadership — that this is a situation that just can’t continue,” General McMaster said on ABC’s “This Week.” “The president has made clear that he will not accept the United States and its allies and partners in the region being under threat from this hostile regime with nuclear weapons, and so we’re working together with our allies and partners, and with the Chinese leadership, to develop a range of options.”
“最新的这次导弹试射符合朝鲜政权挑衅、破坏稳定、威胁的行为模式，我认为现在国际上有共识——包括中国和中国的领导层也是如此——这种情况不能继续下去了，”麦克马斯特将军在ABC的《本周》(This Week)节目上说：“总统已经明确表示，他不会接受美国及其盟友和在该地区的伙伴受到这个敌对政权的核武威胁，所以我们与盟友和合作伙伴，以及中国领导层一起制定一系列应对选项。”
General McMaster said the United States and its allies would aim to avoid a military response.
麦克马斯特将军说，美国及其盟国的目标是避免军事反应。
“It’s time for us to undertake all actions we can, short of a military option, to try to resolve this peacefully,” he said.
他说：“现在是时候采取各种可能的行动，而不是军事选择，来尝试和平解决这个问题了。”
The White House official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity on a delicate national security matter, said Mr. Trump had many military, diplomatic and other tools at his disposal should he choose to answer North Korea’s latest behavior. But he suggested that a response to another in a series of failed launches might not be imminent. A nuclear test, though, would be a different case, the official added.
那名不愿具名讨论微妙国家安全事务问题的白宫官员表示，要应对朝鲜的最新挑衅，特朗普有很多军事、外交和其他工具可以选择。但他说，朝鲜的一系列导弹试射都失败了，最新的这次可能不会引发即刻反应，不过核试验就不一样了。
“If it had been a nuclear test, then other actions would have been taken from the U.S.,” the official said.
“如果这次是进行的核试验，那么美国就会采取不同的行动。”该官员说。
United States intelligence indicates that the missile was not an intercontinental ballistic missile but probably a medium-range one, which was launched from the same navy base as an April 5 attempt, and which failed after four to five seconds, the official added.
美国的情报表明，这枚导弹不是洲际弹道导弹，可能是中程导弹，与4月5日那次是从同一个海军基地发射的。发射四五秒之后，它就失败了。
The Trump administration had been anticipating action this weekend because Saturday was the anniversary of the birth of Kim Il-sung, the grandfather of the current North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, making it the country’s most important holiday and one often used to score propaganda points.
特朗普政府本周末一直预期朝鲜会采取行动，因为周六是朝鲜现任领导人金正恩的爷爷金日成诞辰纪念，也是朝鲜最重要的节日，经常用来开展宣传攻势。
“We were expecting something particularly surrounding the birthday of his grandfather, so it wasn’t a surprise,” Ms. McFarland said. “I don’t have any particular comment on what happened with the North Korean missile, but it was a fizzle.”
麦克法兰德说：“我们预计在他爷爷生日时会有所表示，所以这并不奇怪。我对朝鲜发射导弹的事情没有什么特别的评论，但这个发射失败了。”
Mr. Trump, who is spending Easter weekend at Mar-a-Lago, had no direct response to the launch, but on Sunday he suggested that China was helping the United States formulate a strategy to counter the North Korean menace.
特朗普正在马阿拉歌庄园度复活节周末，他对这次发射没有做出直接的反应，但周日他表示，中国正在帮助美国制定打击朝鲜威胁的战略。
Mr. Pence is scheduled to meet with Hwang Kyo-ahn, the acting president of South Korea, on Monday to discuss the North Korean threat.
彭斯定于周一会见韩国代理总统黄教安(Hwang Kyo-ahn)，讨论朝鲜威胁的问题。