Enrollment at American colleges is sliding, but competition for spots at top universities is more cutthroat and anxiety-inducing than ever. In the just-completed admissions season, Stanford University accepted only 5 percent of applicants, a new low among the most prestigious schools, with the odds nearly as bad at its elite rivals.
美国高等院校的入学人数正在缓慢下滑，但争夺顶尖学府名额的竞争空前地残酷，也令人无比焦虑。在刚刚结束的录取季，斯坦福大学(Stanford University)仅接收了5%的申请者，在最著名的学府中创下新低。在同样出类拔萃的其他学校，录取率也相差无几。
Deluged by more applications than ever, the most selective colleges are, inevitably, rejecting a vast majority, including legions of students they once would have accepted. Admissions directors at these institutions say that most of the students they turn down are such strong candidates that many are indistinguishable from those who get in.
在创纪录的申请蜂拥而至的情况下，最挑剔的院校不可避免地要拒绝绝大多数人，包括大批曾经会被录取的学生。在这些机构主管录取工作的人员表示，遭到回绝的多数学生实力强劲，很多人与录取的学生相差无几。
Isaac Madrid applied to 11 colleges, a scattershot approach that he said is fairly typical at his private high school, Bellarmine College Preparatory in San Jose, Calif. Students there are all too aware of the long odds against getting into any particular elite university. “It was a crazy amount of work and stress doing all those essays by the deadline and keeping up my schoolwork, and waiting on the responses, and we had more than $800 in application fees,” he said.
伊萨克·马德里(Isaac Madrid)采取了广撒网的方法，申请了11所院校。他表示，在自己所在的加州圣何塞私立高中贝拉尔米诺预科学校(Bellarmine College Preparatory)，这种方式相当普遍。学生们全都很清楚，进任何一所顶尖学府的几率均非常之低。“要在截止期前写完所有的自我陈述，同时要完成功课，还要等待结果，真是事情狂多、压力狂大。我们还得交800美元（约合5000元人民币）以上的申请费，”他说。
Mr. Madrid, 18, got a taste of how random the results can seem. He was among the 95 percent turned away by Stanford, but he got into Yale, which he plans to attend, and he admitted having no real insight into the reasons for either decision.
18岁的马德里品尝到了录取结果看似何其随机的滋味。他在斯坦福拒绝的95%之列，却被耶鲁录取了。至于这两个决定背后的理由，他承认自己并不怎么明白。他计划去耶鲁上学。
Bruce Poch, a former admissions dean at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., said he saw “the opposite of a virtuous cycle at work” in admissions. “Kids see that the admit rates are brutal and dropping, and it looks more like a crapshoot,” he said. “So they send more apps, which forces the colleges to lower their admit rates, which spurs the kids next year to send even more apps.”
布鲁斯·波奇(Bruce Poch)曾在加州克莱尔蒙特的波莫纳学院(Pomona College)任主管招生工作的院长。他说自己看到了录取过程中“正在上演的恶性循环”。“孩子们发现录取数字很残酷，而且还在不断下降，看起来更像是赌博，”他说。“于是他们申请更多的地方，进而迫使学校降低录取率，结果刺激孩子们来年申请更多的地方。”
For most of the past six decades, overall enrollment boomed, while the number of seats at elite colleges and universities grew much more slowly, making them steadily more selective. Enrollment peaked in 2011, and it has dropped a bit each year since then, prompting speculation that entry to competitive colleges would become marginally easier. Instead, counselors and admissions officers say, the pool of high-achieving applicants continues to grow, fed partly by a rising number from overseas.
过去60年的多数时间里，全美整体入学人数大幅增加，但顶尖学府的名额增速则要慢得多，从而让它们变得越来越挑剔。入学人数于2011年达到顶峰，此后每年略有下滑。这使得人们猜测，进入竞争激烈的院校会变得稍微容易一些。可是，申请指导和招生管理人员表示，优秀申请者的规模仍在持续扩大，其中部分原因在于海外申请者的人数不断攀升。
At the same time, students send more applications than they once did, abetted by the electronic forms that have become nearly universal, and uniform applications that can make adding one more college to the list just a matter of a mouse click. Seven years ago, 315 colleges and universities accepted the most widely used form, the Common Application; this year, 517 did.
与此同时，学生们申请的学校也比以前多。推波助澜的是，电子表格遍地开花，而标准申请程序使得增加一所学校只需多点击一次鼠标。七年前，有315所高等院校接受最被广为采纳的表格——通用申请应用程序(Common Application)；今年，这一数字变为了517所。
Students applying to seven or more colleges made up just 9 percent of the applicant pool in 1990, but accounted for 29 percent in 2011, according to surveys by the National Association for College Admission Counseling, and counselors and admissions officers say they think the figure has gone higher still. While people have lavished attention on a Long Island teenager who was accepted by all eight Ivy League colleges, admissions professionals say it is remarkable that anyone would apply to all eight.
根据美国大学招生咨询协会(National Association for College Admission Counseling)进行的调查，1990年，申请至少七所院校的学生仅占申请总人数的9%，而2011年则为29%。申请指导与招生管理人员称，他们认为这一数字已进一步攀升。尽管大量的注意力聚集到了被全部八所常春藤联盟学校录取的一名长岛少年的身上，但招生专业人士表示，申请全部八所这件事本身就非比寻常。
Stanford received 42,167 applications for the class of 2018 and sent 2,138 acceptance notices, for a first-year class that, ultimately, will number about 1,700.
斯坦福收到了4万2167份有意成为其2018届学生的申请，发送了2138份大一新生录取通知书。最终的新生入学人数将在1700上下。
The University of California, Los Angeles, the national leader in applications, had more than 86,000 requests — twice as many as in 2005 — for space in a first-year class of about 6,000, and it also received 19,000 applications to transfer from other colleges and universities. This year, for the first time, the admission rate for first-year applicants at U.C.L.A. and the University of California, Berkeley, could drop below 20 percent.
加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)的申请人数领先全国，该校收到了逾8.6万份新生申请——是2005年申请人数的两倍，而招生人数大约是6000名，该校还收到了1.9万份转校申请。今年，加州大学洛杉矶分校和加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的新生录取率可能首次降至20%以下。
“For most kids, this really used to be a regional process, but they have access to so much information online now, so every school seems local,” said Richard H. Shaw, the dean of undergraduate admission at Stanford. Admissions directors at several top Eastern colleges agreed, saying that they now received more applications from California than any other state, which would have been unthinkable a few years ago.
斯坦福大学本科生招生主任理查德·H·肖(Richard H. Shaw)说，“对于大多数孩子来说，申请过程在过去实际上受到地域限制，但他们现在能在网上获得很多信息，以至于所有学校都像是本地的学校。”东部地区几所一流大学的招生主任同意上述观点，称他们现在收到来自加州的申请多于其他州，这种情况在几年前是无法形象的。
Some of them also pointed to colleges’ increasingly aggressive outreach to prospective students, with mailings, emails and advertising — some of it well intentioned, and some of it more cynical.
其中一些人还指出，各个大学越来越积极地通过邮件、电子邮件和广告吸引有意向的申请者，其中一些举措是出于善意，另一些则比较卑劣。
“One of the ways that colleges are measured is by the number of applicants and their admit rate, and some colleges do things simply to increase their applicant pool and manipulate those numbers,” said Christoph Guttentag, the dean of undergraduate admission at Duke.
杜克大学(Duke University)本科生招生主任克里斯托弗·古滕塔格(Christoph Guttentag)说，“衡量学校的一个方法就是看它的申请人数及录取率，有的大学做的一些事情只是为了增加申请人数，玩数字游戏。”
A generation ago, it was rare for even highly competitive colleges to offer places to fewer than 20 percent of their applicants. In 2003, Harvard and Princeton drew exclamations of dismay (from prospective applicants), envy (from other colleges) and satisfaction (from those they accepted) when they became the first top universities to have their admission rates dip below 10 percent. Since then, at least a dozen have gone below that threshold.
在一代人以前，极具竞争力的大学的录取率低于20%是非常罕见的情况。2003年，哈佛大学和普林斯顿大学成为首批录取率降至10%以下的一流大学，因此引发了（有意向的申请者的）失望情绪，遭到（其他大学的）嫉妒，也使（被录取的）一些人感到得意。自此之后，至少有十几所大学的录取率降至10%以下。
This was the second year in a row that Stanford had the worst odds of admission among top colleges, a title that in previous years was usually claimed by Harvard. This year, by the April 1 deadline for most colleges to send admission notices, Harvard and Yale had accepted about 6 percent of applicants, Columbia and Princeton about 7 percent, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Chicago about 8 percent. (Some rates will increase by a few tenths of a percentage point as colleges accept small numbers of applicants from waiting lists.)
斯坦福大学连续第二年在一流高校录取率中排名垫底，往年通常都是哈佛大学的录取率最低。今年，在大部分大学发送录取通知的最后期限4月1日之前，哈佛大学和耶鲁大学已经接受了大约6%的申请者，哥伦比亚大学和普林斯顿大学接受了7%的申请者，而麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)和芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的录取率达到了大约8%。（由于各个大学会从候补名单中录取少量申请者，一些学校的录取率会增加零点几个百分点。）
Several universities, including Stanford, Duke, Northwestern, Cornell and the University of Pennsylvania, had admission rates this year that were less than half of those from a decade ago. The University of Chicago’s rate plummeted to a little over 8 percent, from more than 40 percent.
包括斯坦福大学、杜克大学、西北大学、康奈尔大学及宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)在内的几所大学今年的录取率比10年前的录取率的一半还要低。芝加哥大学的录取率就从逾40%大幅下滑至稍高于8%的水平。
The most competitive small colleges draw comparably accomplished applicants, but far fewer of them relative to their size, so their admission rates are higher. Even so, the acceptance rates at Pomona, Amherst, Harvey Mudd, Bowdoin, Claremont McKenna, Swarthmore, Middlebury, Williams and others were between 10 and 20 percent this year.
那些最具竞争力的小学院吸引了同样优秀的申请者，但其数量相对于学校规模较小，所以这些学院的录取率较高。即便如此，波莫纳学院(Pomona College)、阿默斯特学院(Amherst College)、哈维姆德学院(Harvey Mudd College)、鲍登学院(Bowdoin College)、克莱蒙特麦肯纳学院(Claremont McKenna College)、斯沃斯莫尔学院(Swarthmore College)、米德尔伯里学院(Middlebury College)、威廉姆斯学院(Williams)及其他类似学校的录取率今年也在10%至20%之间。
Mr. Shaw, the Stanford dean, said he could not predict where the rates would bottom out — in fact, he never expected them to go as low as they have.
斯坦福大学招生主任肖表示，他无法预测录取率会在什么水平触底，实际上，他从未想到录取率会到达如此低点。
“Honestly,” he said, “I’m sort of in shock.”
“坦白说，”他表示，“我感到有点震惊。”