WASHINGTON (AP) — Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel announced Monday that he will visit China next year to capitalize on an improving trend in U.S.-China relations, even as Beijing casts a wary eye on the Pentagon’s strategic “pivot” to the Pacific.
华盛顿（美联社）——美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)周一宣布，他将于明年访问中国。尽管中国政府对五角大楼“转向”太平洋的战略有所警惕，但美中关系正在改善，而哈格尔的访问意在抓住两国关系改善的机遇。
During a break in meetings at the Pentagon, Hagel and his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Chang Wanquan, told reporters they see room for greater U.S.-China military cooperation, including joint exercises and high-level visits. Chang affirmed that China’s navy next year will participate for the first time in a major international maritime exercise known as Rim of the Pacific.
哈格尔与中国国防部长常万全上将在五角大楼举行了会谈。二人在会晤间隙告诉记者，他们认为美中之间有更大的军事合作空间，包括进行联合军演和高层会晤。常万全确认，中国海军明年将首次参与代号为“环太平洋”(Rim of the Pacific)的大型国际海上军演。
Hagel said he accepted Chang’s invitation to visit Beijing in 2014. The last U.S. defense secretary to visit China was Leon Panetta in September 2012.
哈格尔还称，他接受了中方的邀请，将于2014年访问北京。美国国防部长上次访华是2012年9月利昂·帕内塔(Leon Panetta)的访问。
Chang and Hagel both spoke hopefully of building greater trust between the two nations’ militaries and chipping away at long-held suspicions. But Chang in particular cautioned against mistaking his country’s friendliness for weakness.
常万全和哈格尔均以充满希望的口吻谈到，要在两国军方之间增强互信，并逐步摆脱长期的猜疑。不过，常万全特意警告，不要认为中国的善意是软弱的表现。
“No one should fantasize that China would barter away our core interests, and no one should underestimate our will and determination in defending our territory, sovereignty and maritime rights,” Chang said through an interpreter.
通过一名口译员，常万全称，“任何人不用幻想中方会拿核心利益作交易，不用低估我们维护国家领土主权和海洋权益的决心和意志。”
He appeared to be referring to China’s disputes with Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines and other Asian nations over territorial boundaries in the South China Sea. Hagel alluded to these tensions, saying in a prepared statement that while the U.S. does not take sides in territorial claims, it encourages all parties to avoid allowing tensions to escalate into armed conflict.
他似乎指的是中国与越南、马来西亚、菲律宾等亚洲国家在南海上的领土争端。哈格尔对这些紧张态势也做出了暗示，他在事先准备的声明中表示，在领土争端中，美国不会偏袒任何一方，并且敦促各方不要让紧张局势升级为武装冲突。
Chang seemed to suggest that the U.S. not intervene in the territorial disputes.
常万全似乎还暗示，美国不要插手这些领土争端。
“The Asia-Pacific is our common homeland,” Chang said. “Any action that leads to trouble or provocation, any unwanted action out of self-interest or [that] further complicates or magnifies the situation would be highly irresponsible and will not lead to a favorable result.”
“亚太是我们的共同家园，”常万全称。“任何搬弄是非、蓄意挑衅，或者为一己之利，肆意妄为，使局势复杂化、扩大化的行为，都是不负责任的，也是不会有好的结果的。”
The Obama administration for more than a year has promised a strategic pivot to the Asia-Pacific region following more than a decade of intense focus on the greater Middle East. Chang said China hopes this shift, which Washington now calls a “rebalance,” will be done constructively and even-handedly.
一年多以前，奥巴马政府承诺将把战略重点转向亚太地区。之前10多年，美国密切关注的是大中东地区。华盛顿如今将这一转变称为“再平衡”。常万全表示，中方希望它是建设性的、平衡的。