WASHINGTON — In an encounter reminiscent of the Cold War, an American reconnaissance plane crossed into Swedish airspace last month as it sought to avoid being intercepted by Russian fighters, American military officials said on Sunday.
华盛顿——美国军方官员周日表示，上个月，为了避免被俄罗斯战机拦截，美军一架侦察机越过边界，进入了瑞典领空。此事不免让人想起冷战时期。
The episode, which was disclosed only in recent days, occurred on July 18 when Russian aircraft approached an Air Force RC-135 electronic surveillance plane as it was flying in what American officials said was international airspace over the Baltic Sea.
事情发生在7月18日，但直到最近几天才被披露出来。美国官员称，当天空军一架RC-135电子侦察机正在波罗的海上方的国际空域飞行，此时有俄罗斯飞机向它逼近。
“The aircraft commander, acting in a professional and safe manner, maneuvered the aircraft to avoid a possible encounter by Russian aircraft,” the United States European Command said in a statement.
“RC-135指挥官采取了专业、安全的对策，操控飞机防止了与俄罗斯飞机之间可能出现的正面遭遇，”美国欧洲司令部(United States European Command)在声明中表示。
Tensions between the West and Russia have grown over the conflict in Ukraine, and American and NATO officials have accused Russia of funneling arms to separatists in Ukraine and carrying out cross-border rocket and artillery attacks against Ukrainian government forces.
西方和俄罗斯之间的对立已经因乌克兰冲突而加剧。美国和北约(NATO)官员指责俄罗斯不仅为乌克兰分裂分子提供武器，并且还用火箭弹和火炮跨境打击乌克兰政府军。
In recent months, the United States and other NATO nations have sought to reassure Eastern European allies by modestly increasing their military presence in and near their territory. This has included the deployment of 600 American troops on training missions in Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, as well as a stepped-up allied effort to patrol the airspace over Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
近几个月来，为了安抚东欧盟友，美国等北约国家小幅增加了在这些盟国领土上或附近的军事存在，其中包括部署600名美军士兵在波兰、爱沙尼亚、拉脱维亚和立陶宛开展训练任务，以及加大在爱沙尼亚、拉脱维亚和立陶宛的联合空中巡逻力度。
The United States has also expanded its intelligence-gathering, including reconnaissance missions by RC-135 aircraft. The aircraft is used to monitor electronic communications, including radar signals, and the Air Force says it can detect and pinpoint transmissions “throughout the electromagnetic spectrum.”
美国还扩大了情报搜集活动的范围，包括派遣RC-135飞机开展侦察任务。这种飞机被用来监听包括雷达信号在内的电子通讯。美国空军表示，它可以侦测到“整个电磁频谱”的传输活动并对其进行精确定位。
According to the Swedish news media, the episode on July 18 occurred as the RC-135 aircraft was flying near Kaliningrad, a heavily militarized Russian enclave between Poland and Lithuania that includes a major port for the Russian Baltic fleet.
瑞典新闻媒体报道，7月18日的事件发生时，这架RC-135正在加里宁格勒附近飞行。加里宁格勒位于波兰和立陶宛之间，是一块高度军事化的俄罗斯飞地，俄波罗的海舰队的一个主要港口就设在这里。
After being approached by Russian aircraft, the RC-135 pilot sought to avoid the encounter by maneuvering his aircraft into Swedish airspace, flying over Gotland Island.
俄罗斯飞机靠近后，RC-135的飞行员试图避免正面遭遇，于是驾驶飞机进入瑞典领空，飞越了哥得兰岛。
Sweden is not a member of NATO, and the European Command said in its statement that the RC-135 had been directed toward Swedish territory “incorrectly by U.S. personnel.”
瑞典并不是北约成员。美国欧洲司令部在声明中表示，RC-135飞到瑞典领土“是美方人员引导不当”。
The plane left Swedish airspace after Swedish air traffic controllers informed the aircraft of the mistake. The European Command statement said it would work with the Swedish government “to prevent similar issues before they arise.”
瑞典空中交通管制员告知该架飞机这个错误之后，它飞离了瑞典领空。美国欧洲司令部在声明中称，将与瑞典政府合作“预防类似问题再次发生”。
The episode follows other encounters between Russian aircraft and American warplanes or ships. On April 12, Russian SU-24 attack jets flew near a Navy vessel, the guided missile destroyer Donald Cook, which was operating in international waters in the Black Sea.
在此之前，俄罗斯飞机和美国战机、军舰之间近期出现过正面遭遇的情况。4月12日，俄罗斯的几架苏-24攻击机飞到美国海军的“唐纳德·库克号”(Donald Cook)导弹驱逐舰附近，后者当时位于黑海的国际水域。
One of the Russian aircraft made 12 low-altitude passes near the ship, which had been sent to the Black Sea as part of the Obama administration’s attempt to reassure Eastern European allies. The Pentagon said the ship was never in danger, but criticized the Russian actions as provocative.
其中一架俄罗斯飞机在“唐纳德·库克号”上方低空飞越了12次。这艘驱逐舰派往黑海，是奥巴马政府安抚东欧盟国的举措之一。五角大楼称舰艇并未陷入任何危险，但批评俄罗斯的举动具有挑衅性质。
On April 23, a Russian aircraft flew close to an RC-135 that was flying over the Sea of Okhotsk, between Russia and Japan.
4月23日，一架俄罗斯飞机逼近美军的一架RC-135，当时后者正在俄罗斯和日本之间的鄂霍次克海上空飞行。