WASHINGTON — Senate leaders neared the completion Monday night of a bipartisan deal to raise the debt ceiling and end the government shutdown while the rest of the world braced for the possibility of an American default that could set off a global financial disaster.
华盛顿——周一晚间，参议院领袖将近达成一项两党协议，提高债务上限并结束政府停摆。与此同时，全世界其他地方都在准备应对可能因美国违约而来的全球金融灾难。
Negotiators talked into the evening as senators from both parties coalesced around a plan that would lift the debt limit through Feb. 7, pass a resolution to finance the government through Jan. 15 and conclude formal discussions on a long-term tax and spending plan no later than Dec. 13, according to one Senate aide briefed on the plan.
谈判一直进行到晚间，两党议员就一项计划形成了一致。据一名知晓该项计划的参议院助手称，该计划将把债务期限延长至2月7日，同时通过一项向政府提供资金的决议，让政府一直运行到1月15日，并且规定，在12月13日之前完成有关长期税收和开支计划的正式讨论。
But while both Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, and Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, praised the progress that was made in the Senate, it was already clear that the most conservative members of the House were not going to go along quietly with a plan that does not accomplish their goal from the outset of this two-week-old crisis: dismantling the president’s health care law.
然而，尽管肯塔基州参议员、共和党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)和内华达州参议员、民主党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)都对参议院取得的进展表示了称赞，局面却已经十分清楚，也就是说，众议院最保守的成员不会默然接纳一项没有达成他们目标的计划。这场危机已经持续了两周，他们的目标从一开始便是废除总统的医改法案。
“We’ve got a name for it in the House: it’s called the Senate surrender caucus,” said Representative Tim Huelskamp, Republican of Kansas. “Anybody who would vote for that in the House as Republican would virtually guarantee a primary challenger.”
“我们众议院的人给它起了个名字，叫参议院投降核心会议，”堪萨斯州共和党众议员蒂姆·许尔斯卡普(Tim Huelskamp)说，“任何支持它的共和党众议员都必将在初选中遭遇挑战。”
There have been other showdowns between Republican lawmakers and President Obama that went to the last minute; in 2011, lawmakers reached a deal to raise the nation’s debt ceiling two days before officials said a default was possible, resulting in a stock market plunge and the downgrading of the nation’s credit rating. But the real possibility that as of Thursday the government would not be able to meet its obligations prompted grim warnings of an economic catastrophe that could ripple through stock markets, foreign capitals, corporate boardrooms, state budget offices and the bank accounts of everyday investors.
共和党议员和奥巴马总统之间以前也有过较量到最后一刻的情况。2011年，议员们就提高美国债务上限达成了一项协议，时间距离官员称美国可能违约的时间只有两天，导致股市骤跌，美国的国家信用评级被下调。然而，政府可能会在本周四堕入无力偿还债务的状态，这个实实在在的可能性引发了关于一场经济大灾难的严厉警告，这样的灾难可能会波及股市、外国资本、企业决策、各州预算和普通投资者的银行账户。
“If Republicans aren’t willing to set aside their partisan concerns in order to do what’s right for the country, we stand a good chance of defaulting, and defaulting could have a potentially devastating effect on the economy,” Mr. Obama told reporters at Martha’s Table, a Washington-area food bank.
“如果共和党人不愿为造福国家而放弃自己的党派立场，我们便很有可能违约，而违约可能会对经济产生毁灭性的影响，”奥巴马在华盛顿地区食品慈善机构“玛莎的餐桌”(Martha’s Table)告诉记者。
Officials in several states said a default would mean unprecedented but unknown consequences to federal programs that are administered by the states, like Medicaid and food stamps. They also said that a market collapse could undermine state pension plans. And higher interest rates from a default on federal bonds could make short-term borrowing more difficult and costly for states.
几个州的官员表示，违约将对这些州的联邦项目造成前所未有但却尚未准确估计的影响，比如联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)和食品券项目。他们还表示，市场崩溃可能会影响州养老金计划。联邦债券违约造成的利率升高也会让各州更难贷到短期贷款，贷款成本也会更高。
“This has us pretty nervous; it’s just a mess,” said John E. Nixon, the budget director for the State of Michigan. “We are taking it very seriously, and we have our agencies preparing contingency plans. But obviously nobody really knows how it’s going to unfold, so you can only plan so much.”
“这让我们非常紧张，简直是一团糟，”密歇根州负责预算事务的约翰·E·尼克松(John E. Nixon)说，“我们正在很严肃地应对这个问题，让各机构准备应急计划。但是，显然没人真的知道事情会如何发展，准备工作也只能做到这个程度。”
Scott D. Pattison, the executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers, spent Monday morning fielding calls from anxious members across the country.
周一，全国州预算官员协会( National Association of State Budget Officers)的执行干事斯科特·D·帕蒂森(Scott D. Pattison)一上午都在接听焦虑的协会成员从全国各地打来的电话。
“A lot of these folks are looking into ‘What kinds of options do we have if there is a cash crunch?’ ” Mr. Pattison said. “They are very, very nervous. It’s uncharted territory.”
“他们很多人都在问‘如果资金匮乏，我们该怎么办？’”帕蒂森说，“他们非常非常紧张。这样的局面前所未见。”
Investors on Monday reacted in tandem with the real-time reports of halting progress, with stocks falling in the morning before drifting into positive territory by the end of the day in response to reports of a possible deal in the Senate. At the same time, asset managers and banks began taking steps to be ready if the Treasury Department is unable to pay back its short-term debt on time. And world leaders expressed concern about the impact on their countries.
周一，实时报道披露了参议院里走走停停的协商进程，投资者的反应随之摇摆，股价在早间出现下跌，当日结束时已转至阳面，这一变化回应了参议院可能会达成协议的报道。同时，理财公司和银行已开始采取步骤，准备应对财政部无法及时清偿短期债务的局面。关于此事对本国的影响，全球领导人表达了各自的担忧。
In Britain, Jon Cunliffe, who will become deputy governor of the Bank of England next month, told members of Parliament that banks should be developing contingency plans to deal with an American default if one happens.
在英国，即将于下月出任英格兰银行(Bank of England)副行长的乔恩·坎利夫(Jon Cunliffe)对议员们表示，各银行应该制定应急计划，以免在美国政府违约之时措手不及。
And Chinese leaders called on a “befuddled world to start considering building a de-Americanized world.” In a commentary on Sunday, the state-run Chinese news agency Xinhua blamed “cyclical stagnation in Washington” for leaving the dollar-based assets of many nations in jeopardy. It said the “international community is highly agonized.”
中国领导人呼吁“陷入困惑的国际社会开始考虑建设一个去美国化的世界”。在周日发表的评论中，中国官方通讯社新华社指责“美国政府的周期性停摆”让许多国家以美元为基础的资产遭受了损失。评论表示，“国际社会深受其苦。”
The Senate could vote on an agreement as soon as Wednesday if Mr. Reid and Mr. McConnell discuss the deal with their members on Tuesday. That would leave little time for the House to debate and vote on what will be a contentious measure.
如果里德和麦康奈尔能在周二和各自的同僚讨论协议的话，参议院最快可以在周三就协议发起投票。这样一来，众议院将没有多少时间来讨论这个日后会引发争议的议案，也没有多少时间组织投票。
If a deal is not completed by the end of Thursday, Treasury officials have said, the United States government will have exhausted “extraordinary measures” for managing its debt, meaning that its ability to pay its bills will be limited to the uneven flow of cash that comes into the Treasury on a daily basis. On some days, officials warned, the amount coming in will be less than the amount that is supposed to go out.
财政部官员已经表示，如果在周四结束前无法达成协议，美国政府管理债务的“非常措施”将会到期，这意味着其偿债能力将会以财务部每日入库的现金流为上限，而现金流的金额是不规则的。财务部官员警告，有些时候，入库金额会少于应支数目。
But even that deadline provides no real sense of clarity. It remains unknown how long the federal government could operate beyond that day, what programs it might choose to suspend, or how quickly the global financial markets would pronounce judgment.
不过，即使是这个最后期限也不能真正说明问题。在该期限之后，联邦政府还能运转多久，可能选择搁置哪些计划，全球金融市场会在多快的速度内做出判断，这些问题的答案依然不得而知。
Wall Street sentiment may be in evidence even before a vote, when the Treasury Department sells new 13- and 26-week bonds. If investors are hesitant to buy them, it could set a negative tone for the day, as was the case after an auction last Tuesday. George Goncalves, a Treasury strategist at Nomura Securities, said investors might not immediately panic if all signs were pointing toward a positive vote.
哪怕在投票之前，华尔街的情绪也许都能成为证据，届时，财政部会销售为期13周和26周的新债券。如果投资者出手犹豫，就可能会给当日定下负面的基调，上周二财政部拍卖之后的情况就是如此。野村证券(Nomura Securities)国库券策略师乔治·贡萨尔维斯(George Goncalves)说，如果所有迹象都表明投票结果向好，投资者也许不会立即陷入恐慌。
“If it’s clear it’s going to happen by midnight, people will give them the benefit of the doubt because everyone knows it’s not a hard deadline,” Mr. Goncalves said.
贡萨尔维斯说，“如果清楚地知道投票会在午夜之前举行，人们就会往好的方面想，因为所有人都知道，这不是一个硬期限。”
As they drafted their deal, Senate negotiators in both parties were hoping that House Republican leaders would have no choice but to let a bipartisan agreement come to a vote, even if it could pass only with votes from Democrats and a minority of the Republican majority. But John A. Boehner, the House speaker, provided no assurances on Monday that an arrangement hammered out by his Senate colleagues could pass muster among his conservatives.
起草协议的同时，参议院的两党协商人员也希望，众议院共和党领袖将会别无选择，只能将两党协议付诸投票，哪怕它的通过只得到了民主党人和多数党共和党当中少部分人的支持。不过，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)并没有在周一保证，他那些保守的众议院同僚会接受参议院同僚苦心拟定的协议。