BAGHDAD — U.S. warplanes began airstrikes against Islamic State positions in Tikrit late Wednesday, for the first time entering a struggling Iraqi offensive to retake the city after more than three weeks of remaining on the sidelines.
巴格达——周三深夜，美国战机开始对提克里特的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)阵地发起空袭。这是美国首次插手伊拉克为夺回该市而发起的艰难进攻。在此前的三周多时间里，美国一直在旁观。
A coalition of Shiite militias and Iraqi security forces aided by Iranian military advisers have been trying to root out Islamic State fighters from Tikrit, an important city north of Baghdad in Iraq's Sunni heartland. From the start, the offensive went without U.S. air assistance — government and militia officials had boasted that airstrikes were neither needed nor wanted, and U.S. officials privately expressed discomfort with the idea of directly aiding an operation led by militias and Iranian officials.
在伊朗军事顾问的协助下，由来自什叶派的民兵组织和伊拉克安全部队组成的联军，正在尝试将伊斯兰国的武装分子赶出重镇提克里特。提克里特位于巴格达以北，地处伊拉克逊尼派的中心地带。一开始，此番攻势没有美国的空中支援——伊拉克政府和民兵组织的官员夸口称既不需要、也不想要美国的空袭助阵，而美国官员也在私下里表示，对直接援助由民兵组织和伊朗官员牵头的行动感到不安。
But in recent days, as the militants have continued to hold out in central areas of the city, Iraqi military officials have said that airstrikes would be needed to fully secure Tikrit — despite rebukes by Shiite militia commanders.
然而，由于武装分子依然在该市的中心地区进行抵抗，伊拉克军方官员近些天里开始表示，需要空袭才能全面夺回提克里特。不过，相关言论遭到了什叶派民兵组织指挥官的指责。
Complete control of Tikrit would give the Iraqi ground force command of a vital cluster of road networks and would be the first major success in rolling back a lighting offensive by Islamic State last summer that brought the militants just a short drive away from Baghdad.
完全控制提克里特会让伊拉克地面部队掌握一个至关重要的公路网，也将是击退伊斯兰国去年夏天发起的闪电攻势的首个重大胜利。伊斯兰国的进攻使得武装分子推进到离巴格达只有很短一段车程的地方。
Surveillance flights by coalition aircraft over Tikrit began late Tuesday, according to a spokesman for the Iraqi military's Salahuddin Operations Command, which has responsibility for the military side of the Tikrit operation. And witnesses reported late Wednesday that heavy bombing runs had begun in the city against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS.
在提克里特行动中，军事方面的负责部门为伊拉克政府军的萨拉赫丁作战指挥部(Salahuddin Operations Command)。据该指挥部的一名发言人介绍，联军的飞机从周二深夜开始进行侦察飞行。有目击者反映，到周三深夜，提克里特城里出现了对伊斯兰国的连续猛烈轰炸。
In Washington, the Pentagon confirmed Wednesday night that airstrikes had begun in Tikrit. And Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, in a speech broadcast on Iraqi state TV from an undisclosed location in Salahuddin province Wednesday night, hailed the strikes, saying, “The time of freedom has just been started.”
在华盛顿，五角大楼于周三晚间证实，提克里特的空袭行动已经开始。在伊拉克官方电视台播放的节目中，总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)周三夜里在萨拉赫丁省一个未公开的地方发表讲话，对空袭表示欢迎，并称“自由的时刻现已开启”。
He continued: “We announce today what we have promised you yesterday, that we are going to liberate and clear each spot of our territory, and ISIS won't have a foothold on Iraq's land.”
他接着说：“我们今天宣布的内容，正是我们昨天向你们做出的承诺：我们将解放并清理我们领土上的每一个角落，而ISIS将在伊拉克的土地上无以立足。”
Earlier Wednesday, Khalid Shwani, the spokesman for President Fuad Masum, said that Iraqi and U.S. officials had formed a committee of senior advisers to decide whether airstrikes would be beneficial.
周三早些时候，伊拉克总统福阿德·马苏姆(Fuad Masum)的发言人哈立德·什瓦尼(Khalid Shwani)表示，伊拉克和美国官员此前成立了一个由高级顾问组成的委员会，用以决定空袭是否有益。
“President Masum is expecting that the Americans will conduct airstrikes in Tikrit,” he said.
“马苏姆总统在等待美国在提克里特展开空袭，”他说。