The bond between China and Pakistan is often called as high as the highest peaks, as deep as the deepest ocean. When things are going well, the proximity phrase — “as close as lips and teeth” — is thrown in, with winces on both sides.Beware, Daniel S. Markey says in his lively new book, “No Exit From Pakistan: America’s Troubled Relationship With Islamabad” (Cambridge University Press). The sentimental language between Islamabad and Beijing masks a relationship that is not quite so profound. There is little need for Washington, he argues, to fear that China would like to supplant the United States in Pakistan.
中国和巴基斯坦之间的纽带常被称为比山高、比海深。当一切顺利时，还会用“唇齿相连”这种词来形容关系的密切，尽管这个说法令边界两边的人稍许有些肉麻。不过，丹尼尔·S·马基(Daniel S. Markey)在他生动的新书《在巴基斯坦没有退路：美国与伊斯兰堡麻烦不断的关系》(No Exit From Pakistan: America’s Troubled Relationship With Islamabad)（剑桥大学出版社[Cambridge University Press]）中提醒人们，伊斯兰堡和北京所用的情感语言，掩盖了一个事实：他们之间的关系并非那么深厚。他认为，华盛顿几乎没有必要担心中国会在巴基斯坦取代美国。
China is Pakistan’s leading arms supplier, and the two armies conduct war games and drills together. China, seemingly unconcerned about Pakistan’s rapidly expanding nuclear weapons program, is currently building two nuclear reactors to help meet Pakistan’s desperate energy needs. China also appears to be moving ahead with providing two much larger nuclear reactors, Mr. Markey said in an interview.
中国是巴基斯坦最大的武器供应商，两国的军队还联合举行军事演习和训练。中国对巴基斯坦快速扩张的核武器项目似乎并不担心，目前正在帮助巴基斯坦建造两个核反应堆，以满足该国迫切的能源需求。马基在一次采访中说，中国似乎还打算进行另一个项目，为巴基斯坦提供两个更大的核反应堆。
The Chinese reactors are not so troublesome to the United States that Washington has protested, Mr. Markey said. That’s because the administration of President George W. Bush sealed a civilian nuclear deal with India in 2005, making it difficult, he said, for the United States to object to the new 1,000-megawatt Chinese reactors on offer to Pakistan. When China sold Pakistan two smaller nuclear reactors several years ago, the United States lodged a weak protest with the Nuclear Suppliers Group, a body that is supposed to control the proliferation of nuclear materials, he said.
马基说，中国提供的反应堆并不会给美国制造那么多麻烦，以至于华盛顿已经提出抗议。他说，原因是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)当总统时，政府在2005年与印度达成的一项民用核能协议，让美国很难去反对中国向巴基斯坦提供1000兆瓦的新反应堆。他说，几年前，中国向巴基斯坦出售两座较小的核反应堆时，美国曾向核供应国集团(Nuclear Suppliers Group)提出过微弱的抗议，该集团应有的责任是限制核材料扩散。
“There are smarter and less worrisome ways for Pakistan to get energy,” Mr. Markey said of the new Chinese reactors. “But the Chinese don’t see the reactors as profoundly destabilizing, and there is no push back from the United States.” India complains that the reactors could help Pakistan’s well-established nuclear weapons program.
马基在谈到中国的新反应堆时说，“巴基斯坦有其他更聪明、更少令人担忧的途径获得能源。但中国并不认为这些反应堆会对区域稳定产生深远影响，而美国也不能改变中国的计划。”印度抱怨这些反应堆可能会帮助巴基斯坦已经得到确认的核武器项目。
Mr. Markey, a former State Department official who worked on Pakistan policy during the Bush presidency and is now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, has written an insider’s account of how the United States and Pakistan resemble characters in Jean Paul Sartre’s play “No Exit.” They find hell is not a place of fire and devils, but a living room where they perpetually torment one another. It’s a nice metaphor for how Pakistani and American diplomats often confide how they see each other.
马基曾在布什政府中担任国务院巴基斯坦政策官员，现为对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)高级研究员，他曾以内幕者的身份写过有关两国关系的文章，讲述了美国与巴基斯坦如何与让-保罗·萨特(Jean Paul Sartre)戏剧《禁闭》(No Exit)中的角色相像：他们发现地狱不是一个到处是火焰和恶魔的地方，而是让他们永远彼此折磨的起居室。这对巴基斯坦和美国外交官经常吐露的他们如何看待对方的真心话来说，是个贴切的比喻。
Mr. Markey has traveled to Pakistan often, and he knows many of the players in government, business and civil society. He has visited China and concludes that the main connection between Pakistan and China is their joint interest in upsetting India.
马基经常去巴基斯坦，他在该国政府、商界和公民社会中认识不少人。他也访问过中国，他对中巴关系的总结是，中巴两国之间的主要连接是他们在惹恼印度上的共同兴趣。
Beyond balancing Pakistan against India, China does not — for the moment, anyway — see Pakistan, with its destabilizing radical groups and homegrown Taliban, as “strategically useful,” Mr. Markey says. In the future, China would like to see a stable Pakistan that offers a land route to the Arabian Sea and serves as a steppingstone to Iran and Central Asia.
马基说，除了需要用巴基斯坦来抗衡印度之外，中国至少在目前，还不把巴基斯坦看作是“战略上有用的”国家，鉴于巴基斯坦国内的激进组织以及土生土长的塔利班所带来的不稳定性。在未来，中国可能会希望看到一个稳定的巴基斯坦，能给其提供一条通往阿拉伯海的陆路，并成为中国进入伊朗和中亚的跳板。
But that’s a way off. As evidence of Pakistan’s chronic instability: The Chinese-built port of Gwadar on the Arabian Sea remains unused. Building a highway from the port to western China would involve construction across the Pakistani province of Baluchistan, the base of Taliban groups protected by Pakistan’s intelligence agencies and territory too forbidding for even the Chinese.
但那是很远的未来。巴基斯坦的长期不稳定表现在：中国在阿拉伯海边修建的瓜德尔港一直没有派上用场。建设一条从瓜德尔港到中国西部的公路需要穿越巴基斯坦的俾路支省，那是受巴基斯坦情报机构保护的塔利班组织的大本营，而且环境极为险恶，甚至对中国人而言也是如此。
Some of the most fascinating details in Mr. Markey’s account throw light on China as a moderating influence in spats between Pakistan and the United States. When relations between Washington and Islamabad reached a low after the United States killed Osama bin Laden, Beijing counseled Pakistan to moderate its anger and rejoin the Americans at the negotiating table. China has also advised Pakistan to take it easy in the disputed region of Kashmir, and it supported an initiative during the rule of Gen. Pervez Musharraf for talks with India, Mr. Markey reports.
马基的叙述中一些最具吸引力的细节使人认识到，中国在美国和巴基斯坦的摩擦中起了缓解作用。美国击毙奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)之后，华盛顿和伊斯兰堡之间的关系跌入谷底，是北京劝说巴基斯坦缓其愤怒，重新加入到与美国人的谈判桌上。马基在书中透露，中国还建议巴基斯坦在喀什米尔领土争端问题上看得开些，并在佩尔韦兹·穆沙拉夫上将(Gen. Pervez Musharraf)执政期间支持了巴基斯坦主动与印度进行谈判。
“An exclusive, narrow alliance with an isolated Pakistan, particularly one at odds with the United States, would not be China’s preferred way to achieve either its short-term or long-term goals,” Mr. Markey writes.
马基写道，“与孤立的巴基斯坦建立狭隘的利益联盟，尤其是那种与美国利益有矛盾的联盟，不会是中国想实现其短期或长远目标所要采取的办法。”
It sounds as though Pakistan is one place where the United States does not need to fret about China gaining ground.
听起来，巴基斯坦好像是一个美国不必因担心中国会在那里得势而烦恼的地方。