KABUL, Afghanistan — With about a week left in the year, the Obama administration is backing away from a Dec. 31 deadline for securing a deal to keep American troops in Afghanistan beyond 2014, though it is standing by its warning that a total military withdrawal is still possible if delays continue, American and Afghan officials said.
阿富汗喀布尔——距年底尚有约一周时间之际，美国官员和阿富汗官员表示，奥巴马政府原定的12月31日最后限期有所动摇，不要求在此之前签订2014年后在阿富汗保留美军部队的协议，但奥巴马政府坚持之前的警告，即如果协议签订日期继续拖延，美方依然有可能全面撤走驻阿美军。
The decision is a tacit acknowledgment of what has become obvious in both Kabul and Washington: Neither a hard sell nor soft persuasion has yet induced President Hamid Karzai to go along with the American-imposed timeline for the agreement.
这个决定默认了阿富汗和美国方面均已明了的一个事实，即无论是硬性的推销，还是温和的劝说，都未能诱使哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)遵循美国定下的协议签署限期。
It is also an embarrassing turn after weeks of threats by some senior administration officials, including Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, that a complete American withdrawal from Afghanistan — the so-called zero option — would be considered if Mr. Karzai did not sign the deal by the year’s end.
这也是一个令人尴尬的转折，此前数周，包括国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)在内的一些政府高官接连发出警告，称如果卡尔扎伊不在年底前签署协议，美方将考虑从阿富汗全面撤军，也就是采取所谓的零选项。
Instead of prompting Mr. Karzai to action, however, setting a boundary appears to have only reinforced his sense that American officials will back down if he refuses their demands — a lesson that has been repeated often over the past 12 years.
然而，设立时限并没有推动卡尔扎伊采取行动，似乎只是强化了他的看法，也就是说，如果自己拒绝美方要求，对方就会做出退让——过去12年里，类似情形曾一再发生。
“I don’t know if I would call it bluffing,” said one American official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. “But it looks like that’s what we were doing, and now it looks like Karzai is calling us out.”
一名美国官员说，“我不知道，是否该把此举称为恐吓。不过，这似乎正是我们一直在做的事情，现在，卡尔扎伊似乎要跟我们摊牌。”由于话题涉及内部商议，这名官员要求匿名发言。
The official insisted that planning for a potentially final withdrawal in 2014 was still underway, and that it was still a very real possibility. “But if we want a deal,” the official continued, “we’re going to have to wait.”
这名官员坚称，美方依然在制订于2014年完成最后撤军的计划，这依然是一种非常现实的选择。该官员继续说，“不过，如果想签订协议，我们就必须等下去。”
The question now is how long the administration is willing to wait. American officials have been careful in recent interviews not to suggest any new deadlines. “I think it’s pretty obvious why,” one administration official said.
当前的问题是，美国政府愿意等多久。在最近的采访中，美国官员一直出言谨慎，没有暗示任何新时限。一名政府官员表示，“我认为，这么做的原因是非常明显的。”
The officials spoke only in vague terms about timelines that stretched into the new year, and reiterated earlier statements about how the administration’s preferred outcome is to reach a deal that would permit a small American force, along with some European troops, to stay on to train and advise Afghan soldiers and the police.
官员们只是模糊表示时限将延至明年，并重申早前的声明，称奥巴马政府倾向的结果是达成一项协议，该协议将允许小部分美军和一些欧洲部队留驻阿富汗，给阿富汗士兵和警察提供培训和建议。
Mr. Karzai, after initially agreeing to the wording of the security deal, known as a bilateral security agreement, or B.S.A., said he wanted to wait until after the April 2014 presidential elections before signing.
卡尔扎伊一开始曾对名为双边安全协议（简称BSA）的协议措辞表示认同，后来又说，他想等到2014年4月的总统选举过后再签署协议。
But American officials say they need a deal finalized soon, in part to give European allies, who lack the robust logistics capability of the United States military, time to plan for an extended mission in Afghanistan. They also said the longer they waited, the more likely those in the administration — and the public — who want a complete withdrawal would gain support.
但美国官员称，他们必须尽快敲定协议，部分是为了给欧洲盟友留出时间，让他们可以为延长之后的阿富汗任务制定计划。美国军方拥有强大的后勤保障能力，但其欧洲盟友没有。美国官员还表示，等的时间越长，联邦政府和民众当中那些希望从阿富汗彻底撤军的人就越有可能获得支持。
“We’ve been clear that our preference is to conclude the B.S.A. by the end of the year, and that if we cannot conclude a B.S.A. promptly thereafter, then we will be forced to initiate planning for a post-2014 future in which there would be no U.S. or NATO troop presence in Afghanistan,” said Laura Magnuson, a spokeswoman for the White House. “That has not changed.”
“我们一直都很清楚，我们倾向于在年底前完成BSA，如果无法在这之后迅速达成BSA，那么我们将被迫开始为2014年之后的局势制订计划，届时，阿富汗可能不再有美国或北约(NATO)的军队，”白宫女发言人劳拉·马格努森(Laura Magnuson)说，“这一点没有变。”
With the deal in limbo, the official focus in Kabul has shifted to talks on a companion agreement that would allow other NATO members, such as Italy and Germany, to keep forces in Afghanistan after the alliance’s combat mission formally ends next year.
这一协议悬而未决之际，喀布尔官方的焦点已经转向了和一项附带协议有关的谈判。该附带协议将允许北约的其他成员，比如意大利和德国，在北约战斗任务于明年正式结束后保留在阿富汗的驻军。
The NATO-led coalition here announced the start of talks in a statement this past weekend. The statement was carefully worded, Western officials said, to head off any talk from Mr. Karzai of cutting out the Americans and trying to work only with European allies, an idea he has previously floated in meetings with Western officials.
上周末，以北约为首的联盟在一份声明中宣布，谈判已经开始。西方官员称，该声明措辞谨慎，为的是防止卡尔扎伊排除美国，试图只与欧洲盟友合作。之前同西方官员进行会晤时，卡尔扎伊提到过这个想法。
“The NATO status of forces agreement will not be concluded or signed until the signature of the bilateral security agreement between the governments of Afghanistan and the United States,” the NATO secretary general, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, said in the statement.
“阿富汗和美国政府之间的双边安全协议得到签署之前，北约驻军地位协定不会达成或得到签署，”北约秘书长安诺斯·福格·拉斯穆森(Anders Fogh Rasmussen)在前述声明中说。
But Mr. Karzai appears to still be holding out for a better deal with the United States, despite the original accord’s endorsement last month by a grand council of Afghans, known as a loya jirga, and economic signs that public confidence is falling in the absence of an agreement.
然而，卡尔扎伊似乎依然坚持要求与美国达成更有利的协议，尽管最初的协议已在上月得到了阿富汗大国民会议，即大支尔格会议(loya jirga)的批准，而经济领域的迹象也表明，因为没有达成协议，公众的信心正在下滑。
“I want this security agreement with the U.S.,” a statement from the presidential palace quoted Mr. Karzai as saying in an off-the-record meeting with Afghan journalists on Sunday. “But Afghans’ homes should be protected from American operations, and Afghanistan should not become the battleground of a continuous war.”
周日，卡尔扎伊与阿富汗记者举行了一次非公开会议。“我愿意与美国达成这份安全协议，”总统府的一份声明援引卡尔扎伊在会上的讲话说，“但阿富汗人的家园应免受美方行动的影响，阿富汗不应成为一场持久战的战场。”
Mr. Karzai reiterated that a formal peace process with the Taliban must begin before he signs, and that the United States commit itself to Afghanistan’s peace and security.
卡尔扎伊重申，在他签字之前，与塔利班之间的正式和平进程必须开始，美国也必须承诺维护阿富汗的和平与安全。
“The conditions that we have put forward for the signing of the security agreement are ridding Afghanistan of instability and war,” Mr. Karzai told the journalists.
“我们给签署安全协议提出这些条件，为的是让阿富汗摆脱动荡和战争，”卡尔扎伊告诉与会记者。
He would sign, he said, “as soon as they are ready to accept our conditions, because we are not in a rush.”
他表示，他肯定会签字，“只要他们愿意接受我们的条件，因为我们不着急。”