The ascent of developing countries over the last decade has been fueled by two global trends: the steady rise of China and the willingness of the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy.
过去10年，有两种全球性趋势推助了发展中国家的崛起：中国经济的稳步增长，和美联储(Federal Reserve)刺激经济发展的意愿。
Now, with both trends starting to retreat, investors have been heading for the exits in markets as far removed as Buenos Aires, Istanbul and Beijing, with effects spilling over into the rest of the world.
现在，随着上述两种趋势开始收敛，投资者正在试图从布宜诺斯艾利斯、伊斯坦布尔、北京这些大不相同的市场撤资，这种状况影响到了世界其他地区。
A decline this past week picked up speed and spread around the globe on Friday, leading to the first sustained drop in United States stock indexes in 2014. The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index fell 2.1 percent on Friday, to end its worst week since June 2012.
本周美国股市跌势加速，并在周五蔓延至全球，美股股指出现了2014年的首次持续下跌。标准普尔500指数(Standard & Poor's 500-stock)周五下挫2.1%，使得本周成为自2012年6月以来跌幅最大的一周。
But the damage is expected to be worse in places that have relied on demand for raw resources in China, whose economic advance is slowing. An index of Chinese manufacturing growth released on Thursday showed that the most important cog in the country’s economy, the world’s second-largest, was contracting for the first time in six months.
但有些地方的情况更加糟糕，这些地方的经济有赖于中国对原材料资源的需求，而中国的经济发展正在放缓。周四公布的中国制造业增长指数六个月来第一次出现下滑；中国是全球第二大经济体，制造业是该国经济中最重要的齿轮。
The damage has been particularly severe in countries that are already suffering from political instability, like Turkey and Argentina. Turkey’s currency fell to a record low against the dollar on Friday, a drop that will hit the purchasing power of everyone in the country.
在那些已经出现政治动荡的国家，比如土耳其和阿根廷，这种打击尤为严重。周五，土耳其货币兑美元的汇率跌至历史新低，该国所有居民的购买力都会因此降低。
On a street corner in Istanbul, Yilmaz Gok, 51, said, “I’m a retiree making ends meet on a small pension and all I care about is a possible increase in prices.”
在伊斯坦布尔的一个街角，51岁的耶尔马兹·古克(Yilmaz Gok)说，“我已经退休，依靠微薄的退休金生活，我关心的无非是物价可能上涨。”
“I will need to cut further,” he said. “Maybe I should use my natural gas heater less.”
“我将需要进一步削减支出，”他说。“也许我应该减少天然气暖气的使用次数。”
The concerns about developing economies are being heightened by the Fed’s recent decision to begin pulling back on the bond-buying stimulus programs that have helped keep interest rates low around the world. Now, many countries that had come to rely on those low rates could face a surge in borrowing costs and a period of painful readjustment. Many emerging countries could also be hurt if investors choose to pull their money to chase returns in the recovering economies in the United States and Europe.
美联储最近缩减购债刺激计划的决定，加剧了人们对发展中经济体的担忧。购债刺激计划有助于世界各地把利率保持在较低水平，这让很多国家对低利率产生了依赖，现在它们将面临借款成本的激增，经受一个痛苦的重新调整期。如果投资者从新兴国家撤出资金，转而追逐美国和欧洲经济复苏带来的回报，也会让很多新兴国家遭受打击。
“A lot of these currencies are getting trashed and people’s standards of living are going down,” said Michael Purves, the chief global strategist at Weeden & Company. “There is a potential for social unrest to accelerate.”
“很多新兴国家的货币都在贬值，国民生活水准也在下降，”维登公司(Weeden & Company)首席全球策略师迈克尔·帕维斯(Michael Purves)表示。“社会动荡存在加速的可能性。”
The slump this week was the first serious break in a long stock market rally that took the broad United States stock market up nearly 30 percent last year, fueled by signs of an economic recovery. The extent of the rise had led many sophisticated investors to expect some kind of pullback in American stocks.
股市本周的大跌是一波长期反弹中的首次重大回调，美国经济复苏的迹象推助了这一波的反弹，导致美国股市去年上涨近30%。对于这样的飙升，很多经验丰富的投资者都预期美股会出现某种回调。
“This is a convenient and healthy short-term pullback,” said David Lafferty, the chief market strategist for Natixis Global Asset Management. “The market really needs some time to digest last year’s gains.”
“这是正常的、健康的短期回调，”法国外贸银行全球资产管理公司(Natixis Global Asset Management)首席市场策略师戴维·拉弗蒂(David Lafferty)说。“市场确实需要一些时间来消化去年的涨幅。”
In the rest of the world, the damage so far is less severe than it was during similar turmoil in emerging markets last summer, when the Fed first talked about easing its bond-buying programs. Most markets ended up bouncing back from that episode. But there is a growing recognition that the developing world will not be the engine of growth that it has been for much of the last decade.
目前对世界其他地方而言，本次打击的影响不如去年夏天的一次类似打击严重；去年夏天美联储第一次谈及缩减债券购买计划，造成了新兴市场的动荡。现在多数市场已经从那次打击中恢复。但人们越发认识到，发展中国家不会再像过去10年中的大多数时候那样，发挥经济增长引擎的作用了。
In China, the economy is still growing faster than almost anywhere else, but the pace is slowing and the government is intent on developing an economy that is less intent on exporting goods. This is weighing on everything from the soybean industry in Brazil to the nickel mines of Mozambique.
中国的经济增长速度几乎仍然是全球最快的，但其增长步伐正在放缓，中国政府决心降低经济对出口的倚重。这种状况正在影响从巴西大豆产业到莫桑比克镍矿的方方面面。
Economists are carefully watching the United States for any signs that it is vulnerable to the weakness overseas or that the economic recovery is slowing independently. The most recent monthly employment report showed a sharp slowdown in job creation for the first time in months and data this week showed that home sales came in slightly lower than expected.
经济学家正在密切关注美国的一些迹象，它们有助于显示美国是否容易受到海外增长乏力的影响，以及美国经济复苏放缓是否与外国无关。最新的月度就业报告显示，就业增长出现了数月以来第一次急剧放缓，本周的房屋销售数据也略低于预期。
But the main American indexes are still within a few percent of their record highs. The S.&P. 500 ended Friday down 2.1 percent, or 38.17 points, at 1,790.29, bringing it down 3.1 percent for the year. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 2 percent, or 318.24 points, to 15,879.11. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.2 percent, or 90.70 points, to 4,128.88.
但美国的主要指标仍然仍然距离其历史高位只有百分之几的距离。标准普尔500周五收盘下跌38.17点，收于1790.29点，跌幅2.1%，今年跌幅总计为3.1%。道琼斯工业平均指数(Dow Jones Industrial Average)跌318.24点，收于15879.11点，跌幅为2%。纳斯达克综合指数下跌90.70点，收于4128.88点，跌幅为2.2%。
An array of United States economic data has continued to point to an economic recovery that is gaining strength and could actually benefit if investors are looking for somewhere to put money that was previously in developing countries.
各种数据显示：美国经济仍在复苏，而且这种复苏的力量正在增强。如果投资者正在寻找地方投入以前投在发展中国家的资金，美国可能受益。
“There’s a part of this that actually strengthens the U.S.,” Mr. Purves said. “You may have a flight to the best house on the block.”
“这种情况部分上对美国很有利。”帕维斯说。“你可能会快速住进一条街上最好的房子里。”