Federal prosecutors on Thursday brought what they called the largest hacking and data breach case in the country, charging five people with running an organization that hacked the computer networks of more than a dozen corporations, stealing and selling at least 160 million credit and debit card numbers.
周四，联邦检察官把他们所称美国最大的黑客行为和数据泄露案件送上法庭，起诉了5个人，称他们经营着一个组织，黑进了十几家公司的电脑网络，窃取并出售了至少1.6亿个信用卡和借记卡账号。
The scheme was run by four Russian nationals and a Ukrainian, said the prosecutors, who announced the indictments in Newark. Paul Fishman, the United States attorney for the District of New Jersey, said losses ran into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
检察官在纽瓦克宣布起诉，称这一阴谋的实施者是四名俄罗斯人和一名乌克兰人。新泽西地区联邦检察官保罗·菲什曼(Paul Fishman)称，损失高达数亿美元。
“The losses in this case are staggering,” Mr. Fishman said at a news conference in Newark. “This type of crime is really the cutting edge of financial fraud.”
“这一案件的损失是惊人的，”菲什曼在纽瓦克的一次新闻发布会上说。“这种类型的犯罪确实是技术最先进的金融欺诈。”
The victims in the scheme, which prosecutors said ran from 2005 until last year, included JCPenney; 7-Eleven; JetBlue; Heartland Payment Systems, one of the world’s largest credit and debit processing companies; and the French retailer Carrefour. A separate case involving one of the defendants and the Nasdaq stock exchange was filed by the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.
检察官称，这一阴谋从2005年开始，一直延续到了去年，受害者包括：杰西潘尼百货公司(JCPenney)、7-11连锁店(7-Eleven)、捷蓝航空(JetBlue)、哈特兰支付系统公司(Heartland Payment Systems)和法国零售商家乐福(Carrefour)。哈特兰是世界上最大的信用卡和借记卡处理公司之一。另一个案件涉及这些被告中的一人以及纳斯达克证劵交易所，由纽约南区的联邦检察官提起诉讼。
“The defendants and their co-conspirators penetrated the secure computer networks of several of the largest payment processing companies, retailers and financial institutions in the world, and stole the personal identifying information of others, such as user names and passwords,” prosecutors said.
“被告及其同谋渗入了世界上几家最大的支付处理公司、零售商和金融机构的计算机安全网络，并且窃取了其他一些人的个人识别信息，例如用户名和密码，”检察官说。
The defendants were identified as Vladimir Drinkman, Aleksandr Kalinin, Roman Kotov and Dmitriy Smilianets of Russia and Mikhail Rytikov of Ukraine. Mr. Drinkman is in custody in the Netherlands and Mr. Smilianets is in custody in the United States. The whereabouts of the other three was unclear.
被告被确认为俄罗斯人弗拉基米尔·德林克曼(Vladimir Drinkman)、亚历山大·加里宁(Aleksandr Kalinin)、罗曼·科托夫(Roman Kotov)和德米特里·斯米利亚涅茨(Dmitriy Smilianets)，以及乌克兰人米哈伊尔·雷季科夫(Mikhail Rytikov)。德林克曼目前被拘押在荷兰，斯米利亚涅茨则关在美国。其他三人下落不明。
The attacks underscore the broader threat that hacking poses to a financial system that is almost entirely reliant on networked communications.
对于几乎完全依赖网络通讯的金融系统，这次攻击凸显了黑客行为带来的更为广泛的威胁。
In the Nasdaq case, Mr. Kalinin is accused of hacking into the servers used by the exchange. From November 2008 through October 2010, he installed malicious software, or malware, on servers that allowed him to delete, change or steal data, according to the indictment unsealed on Thursday. The infected servers did not include the platform for securities trading.
在纳斯达克的案件中，加里宁被指控侵入该交易所的服务器。周四公布的起诉书称，从2008年11月到2010年10月，他在交易所的服务器上安装了恶意软件，得以删除、修改或偷窃数据。被他染指的服务器不包括证券交易平台。
In a separate indictment also unsealed in federal court in New York, Mr. Kalinin and another Russian, Nikolay Nasenkov, who is also at large, are accused of conducting a scheme to steal bank account information and use it to withdraw millions of dollars from the victims’ bank accounts. From December 2005 through November 2008, the two men hacked into computer systems and stole information from banks including Citibank and PNC Bank, according to the indictment.
在纽约联邦法庭公布的另一份起诉书中，加里宁和同为俄国人的尼古拉·纳森科夫(Nikolay Nasenkov)被控阴谋盗取银行账户信息，并从受害者账户中提走了数以百万计的美元。该起诉书称，从2005年12月到2008年11月，这两人侵入了包括花旗银行(Citibank)及PNC银行在内的一些银行的计算机系统，并窃取了信息。跟加里宁一样，纳森科夫目前在逃。
In January 2006, the personal identification numbers for hundreds of customer accounts were compromised by a cyberattack on PNC Bank’s online banking Web site, the indictment said. Mr. Nasenkov supplied stolen account information to co-conspirators who, in turn, used it to encode blank A.T.M. cards and withdraw $1.3 million from victims’ accounts.
起诉书称，2006年1月，PNC银行的网上银行网站遇袭，数以百计的客户账户的个人身份号码被窃。纳森科夫把窃取的账户信息给了同谋者。同谋者用这些信息给空白的ATM卡编码，从受害者的账户中取走了130万美元。
In 2007, Mr. Kalinin placed malware on a computer network that processed A.T.M. transactions for Citibank and other financial institutions and used the code to steal bank account information for about 500,000 bank accounts, including 100,000 Citibank accounts, the indictment said. The stolen account information was used to to create A.T.M. cards that were used to withdraw $2.9 million from Citibank customers’ accounts.
起诉书称，2007年，加里宁在处理花旗银行及其他一些金融机构ATM交易的计算机网络中安装了恶意软件，使用密码盗取了约50万个银行账户的信息，包括10万个花旗银行账户。罪犯用窃取的银行账户信息制作了ATM卡，从花旗银行客户的账户中提走了290万美元。
In 2008, Mr. Nasenkov used a computer program to attack Citibank’s Web site that resulted in the theft of account information for more than 300,000 accounts, according to the indictment. The information was used to create A.T.M. cards that were used to withdraw $3.6 million.
起诉书称，2008年，纳森科夫使用一个计算机程序攻击花旗银行网站，窃取了超过30万个账户的信息。罪犯用这些信息制作了ATM卡，提走了360万美元。