The Springfield Armory .45-caliber pistol that killed Lucas Heagren, 3, on Memorial Day last year at his Ohio home had been temporarily hidden under the couch by his father. But Lucas found it and shot himself through the right eye. “It's bad,” his mother told the 911 dispatcher. “It's really bad.”
去年的阵亡将士纪念日(Memorial Day)，3岁的卢卡斯·海格林(Lucas Heagren)在俄亥俄州自己家中被一把春田兵工厂(Springfield Armory)的点45口径手枪射杀。他的父亲暂时将这把枪藏在了沙发下，但卢卡斯发现了它，并对准自己的右眼开了枪。“情况很糟，”他母亲对911调度员说。“真的很糟。”
A few days later in Georgia, Cassie Culpepper, 11, was riding in the back of a pickup with her 12-year-old brother and two other children. Her brother started playing with a pistol his father had lent him to scare coyotes. Believing he had removed all the bullets, he pointed the pistol at his sister and squeezed the trigger. It fired, and blood poured from Cassie's mouth.
几天后，在乔治亚州，11岁的卡西·卡皮普(Cassie Culpepper)跟12岁的哥哥以及另外两个孩子坐在一辆皮卡车的后部。哥哥开始玩父亲借给他用来吓唬土狼的手枪。他以为已经取出了所有子弹，便用手枪指着妹妹，扣动了扳机。枪响了，鲜血从卡西的口中涌出。
Just a few weeks earlier, in Houston, a group of youths found a Glock pistol in an apartment closet while searching for snack money. A 15-year-old boy was handling the gun when it went off. Alex Whitfield, who had just turned 11, was struck. A relative found the bullet in his ashes from the funeral home.
在这之前仅仅几周，在休斯敦，一群少年在寻找零花钱时，从一个公寓的橱柜里找到了一把格洛克(Glock)手枪。一个15岁的男孩拿着这把枪时，它响了。刚满11岁的亚历克斯·惠特菲尔德(Alex Whitfield)被击中。之后，一个亲戚在殡仪馆送回的骨灰中，发现了那枚子弹。
Cases like these are among the most gut-wrenching of gun deaths. Children shot accidentally — usually by other children — are collateral casualties of the accessibility of guns in America, their deaths all the more devastating for being eminently preventable.
这样的枪击事件最是令人揪心。儿童意外死于枪下，通常是被其他的孩子击中，这已经成了美国人持枪权的附带损伤(collateral casualties)。他们的死亡显然是可以预防的，因此更让人痛苦不堪。
They die in the households of police officers and drug dealers, in broken homes and close-knit families, on rural farms and in city apartments. Some adults whose guns were used had tried to store them safely; others were grossly negligent. Still others pulled the trigger themselves, accidentally fracturing their own families while cleaning a pistol or hunting.
不管是警察家庭还是毒贩家庭，破碎的家庭还是和睦的家庭，农村田舍还是城市公寓，都有这种事件发生。在使用枪支的成年人中，有些人会努力安全地保管枪支，有些则会严重疏忽这一点。还有一些人在清洁手枪或狩猎时，自己扣动了扳机，意外地把家庭打得支离破碎。
And there are far more of these innocent victims than official records show.
这种无辜受害者的实际人数远远超过了官方记录。
A New York Times review of hundreds of child firearm deaths found that accidental shootings occurred roughly twice as often as the records indicate, because of idiosyncrasies in how such deaths are classified by the authorities. The killings of Lucas, Cassie and Alex, for instance, were not recorded as accidents. Nor were more than half of the 259 accidental firearm deaths of children younger than 15 identified by The Times in eight states where records were available.
《纽约时报》查阅了数百起儿童枪击死亡事件的资料，发现意外枪击死亡事件的数量，大约是官方记录数量的两倍，原因在于政府对这种死亡事件进行归类的特殊习惯。例如，卢卡斯、卡西和亚历克斯死亡事件就没有被记录为事故。《纽约时报》在8个可以查阅记录的州里，确认发生的259起年龄低于15岁的儿童意外枪击死亡事件中，有半数以上没有记录为事故。
As a result, scores of accidental killings are not reflected in the official statistics that have framed the debate over how to protect children from guns. The National Rifle Association cited the lower official numbers this year in a fact sheet opposing “safe storage” laws, saying children were more likely to be killed by falls, poisoning or environmental factors — an incorrect assertion if the actual number of accidental firearm deaths is significantly higher.
因此，上百起意外死亡事件并没有在官方统计数据中得到反映，而这个数据是讨论如何保护儿童免受枪击伤害的框架。美国步枪协会（National Rifle Association，简称NRA）今年在一篇反对“安全存放”法律的情况说明书中，援引较低的官方数字，声称跟枪击相比，儿童因摔倒、中毒或环境因素而身亡的可能性更高——但如果意外枪击死亡事件的实际数字要高很多，这种说法就不成立了。
In all, fewer than 20 states have enacted laws to hold adults criminally liable if they fail to store guns safely, enabling children to access them. Legislative and other efforts to promote the development of childproof weapons using “smart gun” technology have similarly stalled. Technical issues have been an obstacle, but so have NRA arguments that the problem is relatively insignificant and the technology unneeded.
总共只有不到20个州已经立法规定，如果成年人没有安全保管枪支，使得儿童能接触到枪支，便可以追究这名成年人的刑事责任。推动“智能枪支”技术的利用，研制防止儿童接触枪支的立法举措和其他努力也同样停滞不前。技术问题虽是一个障碍，NRA认为“这个问题相对较小，该技术没有必要”的说法同样也是个障碍。
Even with a proper count, intentional shooting deaths of children — including gang shootings and murder-suicides by family members — far exceed accidental gun deaths. But accidents, more than the other firearm-related deaths, come with endless hypotheticals about what could have been done differently.
即使意外事故的数字正确，故意枪杀儿童事件的数量——包括帮派行凶和家庭成员伪装成自杀的谋杀——也远远超出意外枪击死亡事件。但跟其他涉枪死亡事件相比，事故更能引起人们的各种假想：本来可以怎么避免它的发生？
The rifle association's lobbying arm recently posted on its website a claim that adult criminals who mishandle firearms — as opposed to law-abiding gun owners — are responsible for most fatal accidents involving children. But The Times' review found that a vast majority of cases revolved around children's access to firearms, with the shooting either self-inflicted or done by another child.
NRA的游说部门最近在其网站上发表了一则声明，称成年罪犯误操作枪械——而不是守法的枪支所有者——导致了大多数涉及儿童的致命事故。但《纽约时报》的调查却发现，绝大多数案例都涉及儿童接触枪支，无论是他们射中自己，还是其他儿童所为。
A common theme in the cases examined by The Times, in fact, was the almost magnetic attraction of firearms among boys. In all but a handful of instances, the shooter was male. Boys also accounted for more than 80 percent of the victims. Time and again, boys could not resist handling a gun, disregarding repeated warnings by adults and, sometimes, their own sense that they were doing something wrong.
事实上，《纽约时报》查阅的案例有一个共同的主题，即枪支对男孩具有巨大的吸引力。除了有限几宗案例之外，开枪者都是男孩。而受害者中男孩也占了80%以上。即便成年人多次发出警告，男孩们自己有时也觉得这样做不对，他们还是会难以抑制地去摆弄枪支。
Compiling a complete census of accidental gun deaths of children is difficult, because most states do not consider death certificate data a matter of public record. In a handful of states, however, the information is publicly available. Using these death records as a guide, along with hundreds of medical examiner and coroner reports and police investigative files, The Times sought to identify every accidental firearm death of a child age 14 and younger in Georgia, Minnesota, North Carolina and Ohio dating to 1999, and in California to 2007. Records were also obtained from several county medical examiners' offices in Florida, Illinois and Texas.
对儿童意外枪击死亡事件开展完整的普查十分困难，因为大多数州都没有把死亡证明数据视为公共记录。但在若干个州里，这些信息可以公开获取。以这些死亡记录为指引，结合数百名法医和验尸官的报告，以及警方的调查文件，《纽约时报》力图查明乔治亚、明尼苏达、北卡罗来纳和俄亥俄州1999年之后，以及加利福尼亚州2007年之后的每一名因意外枪击死亡的14岁及以下儿童。此外我们还拿到了佛罗里达、伊利诺伊和德克萨斯州几个县的法医办公室记录。
The goal, in the end, was an in-depth portrait of accidental firearm deaths of children, one that would shed light on how such killings occur and might be prevented. In all, The Times cataloged 259 gun accidents that killed children ages 14 and younger. The youngest was just 9 months old, shot in his crib.
调查的最终目标，是对儿童枪击死亡事故进行深入剖析，揭示这种致命事件是如何发生的，以及可以如何防止。《纽约时报》总共调查了259起14岁及以下儿童的意外枪击死亡事故。最小的受害者仅9个月大，是在自己的婴儿床上被击中的。
In four of the five states — California, Georgia, North Carolina and Ohio — The Times identified roughly twice as many accidental killings as were tallied in the corresponding federal data. In the fifth, Minnesota, there were 50 percent more accidental gun deaths. (The Times excluded some fatal shootings, like pellet gun accidents, that are normally included in the federal statistics.)
在五个州的四个，加利福尼亚州、乔治亚州、北卡罗来纳州和俄亥俄州，《纽约时报》确认的意外致死事故的数量大约是相应联邦官方数据的两倍。另外在明尼苏达州，实际数据比官方数据高出50%。《纽约时报》没有把某些致命枪击事件包含在内，如气枪事故，那种情况通常会被记入官方统计数据中。
The undercount stems from the peculiarities by which medical examiners and coroners make their “manner of death” rulings. These pronouncements, along with other information entered on death certificates, are the basis for the nation's mortality statistics, which are assembled by the National Center for Health Statistics, a division of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Choosing among five options — homicide, accidental, suicide, natural or undetermined — most medical examiners and coroners simply call any death in which one person shoots another a homicide.
官方统计数据之所以不完整，是因为法医和验尸官们对“致死方式”的判断不一致。“致死方式”以及死亡证明中输入的其他信息，是美国死亡率统计的基础，由美国疾病控制和预防中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）下属的美国国家卫生统计中心(National Center for Health Statistics)汇总。它设置了五个选项：他杀、意外、自杀、自然死亡、不确定，对于一个人枪杀另一个人的情况，大多数验尸官和法医会统统归入“他杀”一类。
“A homicide just means they died at the hands of another,” said Dr. Randy L. Hanzlick, the medical examiner for Fulton County, Ga. “It doesn't really connote there's an intent to kill.”
“他杀只表示他们死于他人之手，”乔治亚州富尔顿县法医兰迪·L·汉兹里克(Randy L. Hanzlick)说，“并不意味着对方有杀人意图。”
These rulings can be wildly inconsistent.
他们对“致死方式”的判定可能会差异巨大。
In Bexar County, Texas, for example, the medical examiner's office issued a finding of homicide in the death of William Reddick, a 9-month-old who was accidentally killed on May 17, 1999, when his 2-year-old brother opened a dresser drawer while in the crib with him, grabbed a pistol and pulled the trigger.
例如，在德克萨斯州贝克萨尔县，1999年5月17日，9个月大的婴儿威廉·雷迪克(William Reddick)被意外射杀。跟他一起待在婴儿床里的2岁哥哥，从梳妆台的一个抽屉里抓起一把手枪，扣动了扳机。法医办公室判定这是他杀。
But the next year, when Kyle Bedford, 2, was killed by his 5-year-old brother, who had found a gun on a closet shelf, the same office classified the death as an accident.
但第二年，当2岁的凯尔·贝德福德(Kyle Bedford)被其5岁的哥哥用在橱柜架子上发现的一把枪射杀时，同一间法医办公室又将其判定为意外事故。
A few public health researchers have noted the undercount in the past, based on their own academic studies. (One study found the opposite phenomenon — an overcount — among fatal gun accidents involving adults because of a different quirk in the data.) To get more accurate information about firearm deaths, researchers have pushed for the expansion of the National Violent Death Reporting System.
之前，一些公共健康研究人员已经以自己的学术研究为基础，提出了这种人数被低估的现象。（一项研究在涉及成年人的意外致命枪击事故中，发现了相反的现象，人数被高估了，因为数据中存在另一个问题。）为了获得更准确的枪击致死信息，研究人员正在推动扩展美国暴力死亡事件通报系统(National Violent Death Reporting System)。
The system first started in the 1990s at the CDC but was shut down shortly afterward when Congress, at the urging of the NRA, blocked firearms-related research at the centers. The project was revived in 2002 after researchers decided to expand its scope beyond guns, but it is up and running in only 18 states. President Barack Obama has called for increased financing for the program, part of a package of gun-related proposals made after the school shooting in Newtown, Conn., in December.
这个系统最初是于20世纪90年代在CDC启动的，但不久后就关闭了，因为国会在NRA的敦促下，限制该中心开展涉及枪支的研究。研究人员决定扩大这项研究的范围，使其不仅仅局限于枪支，之后该项目在2002年重启，但它只能有效覆盖了18个州。去年12月康涅狄格州纽敦校园枪击案爆发后，作为涉枪提案的一部分，奥巴马总统已经呼吁增加对这个项目的资金投入。
While about 60 percent of the accidental firearm deaths identified by The Times involved handguns as opposed to long guns, that number was much higher — more than 85 percent — when the victims were very young, younger than 6. In fact, the average handgun victim was several years younger than long gun victims: between 7 and 8, compared with almost 11.
《纽约时报》确认的意外枪击死亡事件中，有60%左右涉及手枪，而非长枪。但在受害者非常年幼，不足6岁的情况下，这个比例要高得多，达到85%以上。实际上，手枪受害者的平均年龄比长枪受害者低好几岁：前者在7至8岁之间，后者几乎达到11岁。
Overall, the largest number of deaths came at the upper end of the age range, with ages 13 and 14 being most common — not necessarily surprising, given that parents generally allow adolescents greater access to guns. But the third-most common age was 3 (tied with 12), a particularly vulnerable age, when children are curious and old enough to manipulate a firearm but ignorant of the dangers.
总体而言，在这个年龄段中，最多见的死者年龄都较高，其中13岁、14岁的死者最为常见。这一点并不意外，因为父母通常让青少年更多地接触枪支。但第三最常见的年龄是3岁（跟12岁并列），这是一个特别容易受伤害的年龄，因为3岁的孩子好奇心强，处于足以操控枪支，但又对其危险一无所知的阶段。
About a quarter of the victims shot themselves, with younger children again especially susceptible. More than half of the self-inflicted shootings involved children 5 or younger; the most common age was 3.
大约有四分之一的受害者击中了自己，而年幼的孩童身上特别容易出这种事。击中自己的案例中，一半以上是5岁及以下的儿童；最常见的年龄为3岁。
About half of the accidents took place inside the child's home. A third, however, occurred at the house of a friend or a relative, pointing to a potential vulnerability if safe-storage laws apply only to households with children.
大约有一半的事故发生孩子家里。但有三分之一发生在朋友或亲戚家里，这表明，如果安全存放枪支的法律只适用于有孩子的家庭，可能会是一个漏洞。
The impact of the undercount of accidental gun deaths emerges in stark relief in the statehouse battles over gun-storage laws.
州级议会在枪支存放法律上争论正酣，意外枪击死亡案例的数量存在漏报这一事实，会给辩论产生极大的影响。
In state after state and often with considerable success, gun rights groups have cited the federal numbers as proof that the problem is nearly inconsequential and that storage laws are unnecessary. Gun Owners of America says on its website that children are “130 percent more likely to die from choking on their dinner” than from accidental shootings.
一个州接着一个州的持枪权团体曾引述联邦的官方统计数字，说明这个问题并不重要，因而制定枪支存放法律没有必要，这种游说往往相当成功。美国枪支拥有者协会(Gun Owners of America)的网站上说，儿童“吃晚餐时死于窒息的可能性，比死于意外枪击高出130%”。
Under the CDC figures, in fact, gun accidents were the ninth-leading cause of unintentional deaths among children ages 1 to 14 in 2010. (The agency reported 62 such killings that year.) If the actual numbers are, in fact, roughly double, however, gun accidents would rise into the top five or six.
事实上，从CDC的数字来看，在2010年，在1岁至14岁的儿童意外死亡的死因中，枪支意外排在第九位（该机构记录了62起此类死亡事件）。如果实际数字是官方统计数据的大约两倍，那么它的排名将上升到第五或第六位。
Gun rights groups have certainly called on gun owners to safely store their firearms. The National Shooting Sports Foundation says it has distributed 36 million free firearm safety kits and that manufacturers have shipped 60 million locks with guns sold since 1998. But the groups argue that requiring gun owners to lock up their weapons could make it harder to use them for self-protection.
持枪权团体肯定曾号召枪主保管好自己的枪支。美国全国射击运动基金会(National Shooting Sports Foundation)说，它已派发了3600万个免费的枪支安全套件，而且从1998年以来，制造商在销售枪支时也提供了6000万个锁具。但这些团体认为，要求枪支持有者给武器上锁，会让他们更难用枪支来保护自己。
Gun rights lobbyists have also helped keep firearms and ammunition beyond the reach of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which has the power to regulate other products that are dangerous to children. The NRA argues that the commission would provide a back door for gun control advocates to restrict the manufacture of firearms. Proponents of regulation say guns pose too great a hazard to exclude them from scrutiny.
而且在持枪权游说者的努力下，消费品安全委员会(Consumer Product Safety Commission)无法管控枪支和弹药，尽管该机构能监管其他可能会危急儿童的产品。NRA称，消费品安全委员会能向倡导枪支管控的人提供一个后门，用来限制枪支的制造。支持监管的人士说：枪支产生的危险太大，不能让其不受监督。
“We know in the world of injury control that designing safer products is often the most efficient way to reduce tragedies,” said Kellermann, the co-author of the boys-and-guns study, who is a dean at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. “Why, if we have childproof aspirin bottles, don't we have childproof guns?”
“我们知道，在伤害控制方面，设计更安全的产品往往是减少悲剧的最有效方式，”亚瑟·凯勒曼(Arthur Kellermann)是美国军队医科大学(Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences)的一名院长，也是这份“男孩和枪支”研究报告的合著者。“我们既然有防止儿童开启的阿司匹林瓶子，为什么就不能有防止儿童开火的枪呢？”