It was Nick Wade’s idea to write about being a quadruplet. He went on a college advice website called College Confidential, and in a chat room about college admissions essays, asked whether other people thought this would be a good idea.
写一写身为四胞胎之一的体验，这是尼克·韦德(Nick Wade)的点子。他去了一个名叫“大学机密”(College Confidential)的大学咨询网站，在一个关于大学入学论文的聊天室里问其他人这是不是一个好主意。
A college essay adviser, Christopher Hunt, noticed his question, and replied, in essence, “That’s a no-brainer.” But Mr. Hunt, a former journalist now living in Boulder, Colo., had some advice. “I said, ‘Yes, that’s good, but you can’t just leave it at, “Oh, gee, I’m a quadruplet.” Tell readers how that influenced your life.’”
大学申请论文顾问克里斯托弗·亨特(Christopher Hunt)注意到这个问题，他的回答基本上是：“这还用说吗。”亨特以前是记者，现居科罗拉多州的博尔德，他还有一些建议。“我说，‘是的，这很好，但是你不能只是说，“哦，天哪，我是四胞胎中的一个。”你要告诉读者这如何影响了你的生活。”
So Nick did. So did his brothers. It has paid off.
于是尼克就这么做了。他的兄弟们也做了同样的事情。他们已经得到回报。
All four brothers, who go to high school outside Cincinnati, have been accepted by Harvard and Yale, among other top schools.
在辛辛那提郊区读高中的四兄弟目前都被哈佛大学、耶鲁大学以及其他顶尖学校录取。
The Wade quadruplets have spent a lot of their lives trying to carve out individual identities. But when it came time to apply to college, they took a different approach: a package deal. After briefly considering submitting a joint application essay, they decided that each would write an essay detailing his experiences as a quad.
韦德四胞胎花了很多时间努力建立个人身份。但是到了申请大学的时候，他们采取了另一种做法：一揽子协定。他们经过短暂的考虑，决定提交一份联合申请论文，并决定每个人写其中的一篇文章，详细描写自己的体验，作为其中的四分之一。
In a clever stroke, the four brothers wrote essays that can be read separately, yet are meant to be read together, like four pieces of a puzzle. Each piece is charming and winning on its own, but together, they are even better, and college admissions officers everywhere seemed to agree and were unwilling to pull them apart.
这是聪明的一招，四兄弟的文章可以单独阅读，但它们是应该放在一起读的，就像四块拼图。每件作品都很精彩，有自己的吸引力，但是放在一起会更好，所有地方的大学生招生负责人似乎都同意这一点，不愿意把它们拆开。
Nick’s begins: “‘Wade. Wade. Wade. Wade,’ shouted my football coach as he called roll at breakneck speed. ‘Here,’ we shouted in unison.”
尼克文章的开头是：“‘韦德。韦德。韦德。韦德，’我的橄榄球教练喊道，他以惊人的速度点着名。‘到，’我们异口同声地喊道。”
Aaron’s begins: “‘Yes, Nigel?’ the teacher said. I lowered my head and glanced back at Nigel’s vacant desk.” Even though the four boys look different, when it came to the teachers, the essay said, “We were four boys who shared one face.”
亚伦(Aaron)的开头：“怎么了，奈杰尔(Nigel)？”老师说。我低下头，瞥了眼奈杰尔的空桌子。”即使四个男孩看起来不一样，这篇文章说，但是对于老师们来说，“我们就是四个分享同一张脸的男孩。”
Nigel begins: “0.00000125 percent. The chance that my mother would give birth to quadruplets. 100 percent. The chance that this woman striding towards me and my brothers was about to make me feel like the black sheep.”
奈杰尔的开头是：“0.00000125％。这是母亲生下四胞胎的几率。100％。是这个女人走向我和兄弟们时，我觉得自己是害群之马的几率。”
Finally, Zach’s essay begins: “‘Change your shirt,’ I said.” (He and Aaron arrived at breakfast wearing the same thing.)
最后，扎克(Zach)的文章开头是：“‘把你的衬衫换了，’我说。”（他和亚伦吃早餐时穿得一模一样。）
It was not an easy balancing act, said Aaron, a musician with perfect pitch who wants to study artificial intelligence. “Our approach was to establish an identity as one of these quads, and then outside of being a quad,” he said. “I think that really bolstered the way we are perceived. Our own personal aspirations and goals played a role in that, and that’s what made us individuals, as well as being quads.”
这不是一个很容易实现的平衡，亚伦说，他是一个拥有绝对音高的音乐人，想要学习人工智能。“我们的做法是，先建立作为四胞胎之一的个人身份，然后建立四胞胎之外的身份，”他说 “我认为这真正增进了人们对我们的理解。我们个人的抱负和目标在其中也发挥了作用，就这样，我们既是独立的个体，也是四胞胎中的一员。”
The Wade quads are “fertility babies,” conceived through a fertility procedure, a growing part of the college-age population. So it seems likely that admissions officers will tire soon enough of reading college essays about multiples. But for now, they are still a novelty, in the Wades’ case both because they are quads and because their parents managed to raise four exceptionally high-achieving boys.
韦德四胞胎是所谓“生育治疗宝宝”，母亲通过不孕不育治疗受孕，目前大学入学年龄的人口中，这个群体在不断增长。所以招生人员可能很快会对大量涉及多胞胎的入学申请文章见怪不怪。但是目前，它仍然是一种新鲜事物，在韦德兄弟的例子中，他们获得成功既因为他们是四胞胎，也是因为父母努力培养了四个非常优秀的男孩。
Their high achievement was no accident, the boys say. When they were younger, their father, Darrin Wade, a software architect for General Electric, would punish disciplinary infractions like lying by making them do situps and push-ups and run around the block. He and their mother, Kim, a school principal, also had them do word puzzles, memorize math tables and write book reports at home from a young age.
男孩们说，他们的优秀绝非偶然。小时候他们的父亲、通用电气的软件工程师达林·韦德(Darrin Wade)会惩罚说谎之类的违规行为，罚他们做仰卧起坐和俯卧撑，并且绕着街区跑步。他们的母亲基姆(Kim)是学校校长，两人会教儿子们做填字游戏，背诵数学口诀表，让他们从小就在家里写读书报告。
Mr. Wade describes his child-rearing philosophy as, “There is no Santa Claus, but there is a God,” which seems to translate into the idea that nothing in life is free, but you will be rewarded for your hard work and good deeds.
韦德描述自己养育孩子的哲学是：“没有圣诞老人，但是有上帝”，这似乎等同于这样一种想法：生活中没有什么是免费的，但是你可以因为辛勤工作和善行而获得回报。
The Wade parents met in math class at Jackson State University, a historically black university in their native state of Mississippi. Jackson State would have taken all four on scholarship, Mr. Wade says, but their sons had different ideas.
韦德夫妇是在杰克逊州立大学(Jackson State University)的数学课上认识的，那是两人的故乡密西西比州一个历史悠久的黑人大学。韦德说，杰克逊州立大学会为他们的四个孩子提供奖学金，但儿子们有不同的想法。
The Wade children did not take it for granted that they would do so well with their admissions. They all say they were shocked at being admitted to so many schools, especially Ivy League schools.
韦德兄弟们并没有想到他们的申请会如此顺利。他们都说，那么多学校接受了他们的申请，这令他们感到震惊，特别是常春藤盟校。
The young men applied to as many as they could — Nicholas and Aaron to about 20 and their brothers to a dozen or so each — because they were trying to get the best possible financial aid package. Sending four children to college simultaneously is not easy, even for an upper-middle class family like theirs.
这些年轻人尽可能多地递交了申请——尼古拉斯和亚伦申请了约20所学校，另外两人申请了十几所——因为他们试图获得最好的助学金方案。同时送四个孩子上大学不是一件容易的事，即使是像他们这样的上中产阶级家庭。
So far, Yale has given them the best financial aid deal, they said, and has assiduously courted them, offering to fly them to New Haven to visit the campus, something they could not afford to do before they were accepted. (Yale admitted another set of African-American quadruplets, two boys and two girls, in 2010.)
到目前为止，他们说耶鲁已经给了他们最好的助学金协议，而且学校非常积极地在争取他们，出机票请他们去纽黑文参观校园，在申请被接受之前他们是出不起那样一笔钱的。（耶鲁在2010年接受了另外一个非裔美国四胞胎，他们是两个男孩和两个女孩。）
But they are not sure whether Yale’s offer is a package deal, and whether, if Aaron breaks away and goes elsewhere, as he is considering, that will compromise it. He favors, and has been accepted by, Stanford.
但是，他们不确定耶鲁的提议是否会是一揽子协议，不知道如果亚伦不进入耶鲁，到别处去上学，是否会损害这个协议。亚伦目前正在考虑，他最想去的学校是斯坦福，而且也已经被该校录取了。
“One of the majors they offer is called symbolic systems,” Aaron said. “I want to go into artificial intelligence. I love how they have this really huge interdisciplinary focus — computer science, cognitive science, linguistics, philosophy, mathematics — I just love all those ideas bubbling together.”
“他们有个专业叫做‘符号系统’，”亚伦说。“我想研究人工智能。我喜欢他们有这样庞大的跨学科关注——计算机科学、认知科学、语言学、哲学、数学——我就是喜欢所有这些想法搅在一起。”
Nigel, who wants to study neuroscience, was wait-listed and Zach, who is thinking of chemical engineering, was rejected by Stanford, so perhaps for the first time in their lives, the interests of one is pitted against those of the others. Aaron was accepted by Ohio State, Miami University (known as the “public Ivy” of Ohio), Case Western, Jackson State, Brown, the University of Pennsylvania, Vanderbilt, the University of California, Berkeley, and the University of Michigan, to give just a partial list, and rejected by Northwestern and Tulane.
奈杰尔希望研究神经科学，他已经被列入等待名单，扎克想读化学工程，但被斯坦福大学拒绝了，所以，或许这在他们的生活中是第一次，他们中的一个人与其他人的利益相抵触。亚伦被俄亥俄州立大学、迈阿密大学（这座学校被称为俄亥俄州的“公立常春藤”学校）、凯斯西储大学、杰克逊州立大学、布朗大学、宾夕法尼亚大学、范德比尔特大学、加利福尼亚州立大学伯克利分校、密歇根州立大学录取（这只是名单的一部分），被西北大学和杜兰大学拒绝。
Nick, the future diplomat, is the only one who has not yet been rejected or wait-listed by a single college. Laughing, he said that he was the least academically prepared, but that he thought admissions officers were impressed by his State Department scholarship to Morocco. It was his first trip out of the country. He studied Arabic and was often called “Obama,” he said.
未来的外交官尼克是唯一一个未被任何大学拒绝或被列入等待名单的人。他笑着说，他在学术上的准备是最少的，但他认为，是国务院颁发给他的赴摩洛哥奖学金打动了招生人员。那是他第一次出国旅行。他说他学了阿拉伯语，经常有人叫他“奥巴马”。
A spokeswoman for Harvard said it did not have a sibling preference. Yale declined to comment.
哈佛的一位发言人说，它没有倾向于招收哪一名兄弟。耶鲁拒绝了置评请求。
The brothers asked that precise details about their academic records not be disclosed. But they said they were all in the top 10 percent of their graduating class. Aaron, the musician, said he was among the top 25 students in his class, and their ACT scores range from the 94th to the 99th percentile.
兄弟们要求不透露他们的学习成绩的准确细节。但他们说，他们都在毕业班中排名前10％。音乐人亚伦说，他是班上排名前25的学生之一，他们的ACT分数在第94到99百分位之间。
Their father, known to everyone as the “quad dad,” says there was no great secret to their success: “It wasn’t a choice to be average.”
他们的父亲被大家叫做“四胞胎老爸”，他说孩子们的成功并不是什么大秘密：“平庸是不可接受的。”