WASHINGTON — The Obama administration is debating whether to authorize a lethal strike against an American citizen living in Pakistan who some believe is actively plotting terror attacks, according to current and former government officials.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府正在讨论是否授权对一名生活在巴基斯坦的美国公民实施致命打击，根据现任和前任政府官员的说法，一些人认为此人积极策划了恐怖袭击。
It is the first time American officials have actively discussed killing an American citizen overseas since President Obama imposed new restrictions on drone operations last May.
自从奥巴马总统去年五月对无人机行动施加了新的限制以来，这还是美国官员第一次积极讨论在海外杀死一名美国公民的事。
The officials would not confirm the identity of the terror suspect, or provide any information about what evidence they have amassed about the suspect’s involvement in attacks against Americans. The debate about whether to put the individual on a kill list was first reported on Monday by The Associated Press.
这些官员不愿证实该恐怖份子嫌疑人的身份，而且对于该犯罪嫌疑人参与袭击美国人的何种证据已被掌握，他们也不愿提供任何信息。本周一，美联社(Associated Press)率先报道了有关是否把此人列入杀戮名单的辩论。
The first time the Obama administration carried out a targeted killing operation against an American citizen was in September 2011, when a C.I.A. drone killed the radical preacher Anwar al-Awlaki in Yemen, officials said little publicly about the operation. The White House acknowledged last year that four American citizens had been killed in drone strikes during Mr. Obama’s time in office. According to the White House, only Mr. Awlaki had been intentionally targeted.
奥巴马政府第一次针对美国公民的定点清除行动，发生在2011年9月，当时美国中情局的无人机在也门杀死了激进派传教士安瓦尔·奥拉基(Anwar al-Awlaki)。官员们极少公开谈论那次行动。去年白宫承认，在奥巴马主政期间，共有四名美国公民在无人机袭击行动中丧生。按照白宫的说法，四人中只有奥拉基是有意针对的目标。
During a speech last May, Mr. Obama said he intended to gradually shift drone operations from the Central Intelligence Agency to the Pentagon, partly to make them more transparent. American officials said then that drone strikes in Pakistan would continue to be launched by the C.I.A. because Pakistan refuses to allow open American military operations on its soil.
在去年五月的一次演讲中，奥巴马表示，他打算逐步把无人机袭击活动从中情局转交给五角大楼，目的之一是使其更加透明。当时美国官员说，在巴基斯坦的无人机袭击将继续由中情局开展，因为巴基斯坦不允许美国在其领土上开展军事行动。
However, under a classified policy issued by Mr. Obama there is a strong preference for the Pentagon — not the C.I.A. — to carry out drone strikes against American citizens, though the policy is said to allow exceptions if necessary.
但是，奥巴马颁发的一项机密政策强烈倾向由五角大楼——而不是中情局——来开展针对美国公民的无人机袭击，虽然据说该政策也允许在必要时有所例外。
American officials said that the new discussions about whether to strike the American in Pakistan had been going on since the middle of last year. The public got a glimpse of the debate last week when Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, the Republican chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, spoke angrily about the drone restrictions imposed by Mr. Obama.
美国官员说，关于是否打击一名身在巴基斯坦的美国人的新讨论，已经从自去年年中持续至今。上周，当众议院情报委员会主席、密歇根州共和党众议员迈克·罗杰斯(Mike Rogers)愤怒地谈到奥巴马对无人机行动施加的限制时，公众对这场辩论有了少许了解。
“Individuals who would have been previously removed from the battlefield by U.S. counterterrorism operations for attacking or plotting to attack against U.S. interests remain free because of self-imposed red tape,” Mr. Rogers said during a congressional hearing.
“一些攻击或策划攻击美国利益的人，本应该被美国的反恐行动从战场上铲除掉，但由于我们给自己强加了繁琐程序，他们至今还逍遥法外，”罗杰斯在国会听证会上说。
The new rules, Mr. Rogers said, are “endangering the lives of Americans at home and our military overseas in a way that is frustrating to our allies and frustrating to those of us who engage in the oversight of our classified activities.”
罗杰斯说，新的规则“让生活在本土的美国人以及海外的美军官兵面临生命危险，让盟国感到沮丧，也让我们这些从事秘密行动监管的官员感到挫败。”
Still, several senior officials in both the executive branch and Congress confirmed that even though the policy establishes a baseline rule that only the Pentagon is to conduct drone strikes against American citizens, a clause makes an exception that would in theory allow the administration to use the C.I.A. to carry out a strike if circumstances justified it.
不过，来自行政部门和国会的数名高级官员证实，虽然该政策确立了只有五角大楼能用无人机袭击美国公民的基本规则，但有一个条款允许了特例的存在，所以从理论上说，政府在确有必要的时候也会通过中情局开展无人机袭击。
“This was Brennan’s brainchild,” said a senior congressional aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the continuing policy debate over the matter, referring to John O. Brennan, the C.I.A. director. “They wanted to be able to talk about it, disclose it, and provide the legal footing for it.”
“这是布伦南的想法，”一位由于政策辩论仍在持续而不愿具名的高级国会助理说，他指的是中情局局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)。“他们希望能够谈论此事，曝光它，并为它提供法律上的立足点。”
Details about the deliberations — including the identity of the proposed target, what he is accused of doing, and the quality of any evidence against him — remain murky. It is not clear how much reluctance by the administration to approve a strike is based on whether he meets the standard — a continuing, imminent threat against Americans — and how much other factors, like the complications raised by the military preference, are playing a role.
和审议有关的细节——包括将要打击的目标的身份，他被指控做了什么事情，相关证据的性质——目前尚不明朗。而且也不清楚政府之所以不愿意批准这次袭击，有多少是缘于对此人是否满足标准——对美国人造成了持续、紧迫的威胁——的判断，有多少是其他因素在起作用，比如希望由军队来处理此事的心态。
Despite Mr. Obama’s efforts to reform the rules governing the use of drones, they remain controversial. “So little has changed since last year, when it comes to government secrecy over killings,” said Naureen Shah, advocacy adviser at Amnesty International U.S.A. “The public and most members of Congress are still completely in the dark about where the U.S. claims authority to strike, the legal rules, and the identity of those already killed.”
尽管奥巴马努力改革无人机袭击规则，但它们仍然存在争议。“自去年以来，在政府对杀戮行动保密这件事上，几乎没有发生任何改变，”国际特赦组织美国分会(Amnesty International USA)的瑙雷恩·沙阿(Naureen Shah)说。“美国声称有权袭击哪些地方，相关的法律规则，以及那些已经丧生的人的身份，公众和国会的大多数成员仍然毫不知情。”
“The policy is still the stuff of official secrecy and speculation, when it should be a matter of open debate and explicit constraints,” Ms. Shah said.
“这项政策仍然被官方遮遮掩掩，引起各种猜测，而它本应该进行公开的辩论，并存在明确的限制，”沙阿说。
Spokesmen at the Pentagon, C.I.A. and White House declined on Monday to comment on the matter.
五角大楼、中情局和白宫本周一拒绝对此事置评。
The administration’s ambivalence on this case has infuriated Mr. Rogers. “The chairman is fired up about this,” the congressional aide said.
政府在这件事上暧昧不明的态度激怒了罗杰斯。“主席对此大为光火，”那位国会助手说。
The aide also confirmed that the Defense Department was initially reluctant to place the individual on the targeting list, questioning whether he met the new standards that Mr. Obama laid out last May. But eventually the Pentagon came around, said the aide, who added that the C.I.A. had supported a lethal strike from the beginning.
该助手还证实，美国国防部(Defense Department)最初不愿意把此人列入目标名单，质疑他是否符合奥巴马去年五月制定的新标准。但最终五角大楼改变了看法，该助手还说中情局一开始就支持对此人实施致命打击。