When the Navy put a Pacific fleet through maneuvers on a $12 million cocktail of biofuels this summer, it proved that warships could actually operate on diesel from algae or chicken fat.
今年夏天，美国海军命令其在太平洋上的一支舰队使用价值1200万美元的混合生物燃料参加了军事演习，这证明了战舰实际上可以使用通过海藻或鸡肉脂肪生产的柴油。
“It works in the engines that we have, it works in the aircraft that we have, it works in the ships that we have,” said Ray Mabus, secretary of the Navy. “It is seamless.”
“它在我们的引擎中能用，在我们的飞机上能用，在我们的舰船里也能用。”海军部长雷·马布斯(Ray Mabus)说，“简直天衣无缝。”
The still-experimental fuels are also expensive — about $27 a gallon for the fuel used in the demonstration, compared with about $3.50 a gallon for conventional military fuels.
这种仍处于实验阶段的燃料也很昂贵——在演练中使用的燃油每加仑约27美元，而常规的军用燃油每加仑约3.5美元。
And that has made them a flash point in a larger political battle over government financing for new energy technologies.
在政府为新能源技术融资的问题上，这种燃料的价格也使它们成为了更大政治斗争中的一个闪点。
“You’re not the secretary of energy,” Representative Randy Forbes, a Republican from Virginia, told Mr. Mabus as he criticized the biofuels program at a hearing in February. “You’re the secretary of the Navy.”
“你可不是能源部长。”来自弗吉尼亚的共和党众议员兰迪·福布斯(Randy Forbes)在今年2月份举行的一场听证会上，批评生物燃料计划时，对马布斯这样说道，“你是海军部长。”
The House, controlled by Republicans, has already approved measures that would all but kill Pentagon spending on purchasing or investing in biofuels. A committee in the Senate, led by Democrats, has voted to save the program. The fight will heat up again when Congress takes up the Defense Department’s budget again in the fall.
由共和党人控制的众议院，已经通过了一些措施，会几乎完全取消五角大楼购买或投资生物燃料的支出。而由民主党领导的一个参议院委员会，则已经投票决定拯救这项计划。今年秋天，在国会审议国防部预算时，这场斗争将会再次升温。
The naval demonstration — known as the Great Green Fleet — was part of a $510 million three-year, multiagency program to help the military develop alternatives to conventional fuel. It is a drop in the ocean of the Pentagon’s nearly $650 billion annual budget.
美国海军这个被称为“伟大的绿色舰队”(Great Green Fleet)的示范项目，是一项为期三年，耗资5.1亿美元的多部门项目的一部分，目的是帮助军方开发传统燃料的替代品。这只是五角大楼近6500亿美元年度预算中的沧海一粟。
But with the Defense Department facing $259 billion in budget cuts over the next five years, some lawmakers argue that the military should not be spending millions on developing new fuel markets when it is buying less equipment and considering cutting salaries.
但是美国国防部(Defense Department)在未来五年里面临着2590亿美元的预算削减，因此，一些议员认为，既然军方在减少装备采购、考虑削减军饷，那就不应该花费数亿美元开发新型燃料市场。
This phase of the military’s exploration of alternative fuels began under President George W. Bush and grew out of a task force that Donald Rumsfeld, then the secretary of defense, convened in 2006 to explore ways to reduce dependence on petroleum. If the military had less need to transport and protect fuel coming from the Middle East, the thinking went, the fighting forces could become more flexible and efficient, with fewer lives put at risk.
美军对替代燃料的这一轮探索，始于总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)任内，是由时任国防部长唐纳德·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald Rumsfeld)在2006年召集的一个工作组牵头，该工作组的目标是寻找方法减轻对石油的依赖。当时的思路是，如果军方不再那么需要运输并保护来自中东的燃油，战斗部队就能更加灵活高效，还可以减少面临生命危险的人员数量。
Investors, however, have been leery of the enormous amounts of cash it can take to bring the fuels from the lab to the gas tank. Industry officials say that having a large, steady customer like the military could attract other investors to help finance large refineries that would bring costs down through economies of scale. Military officials say that their purchases of small amounts for testing has already helped reduce the cost. In 2009, the Pentagon spent roughly $424 a gallon on algae oil from Solazyme.
不过，对于生物燃料从实验室到实际应用所需的巨额资金，投资者一直持谨慎态度。该行业的高管们表示，像军方这样一个大型、稳定的客户，能够吸引其他投资者为建造大型生物燃料炼油厂提供资金，从而通过规模效应降低成本。军方官员称，他们为进行试验而购买的少量生物燃料，已经帮助降低了成本。2009年，五角大楼从太阳酶公司(Solazyme)购买海藻柴油的价格约为每加仑424美元。
“Finding a user like the military can rapidly help to scale technologies that then are used in the civilian marketplace — it becomes a catalyst,” said Bob Johnsen, chief executive of Primus Green Energy, which is developing fuels from biomass and natural gas. “If the military becomes a buyer, that becomes a means by which the production facilities can be financed.”
“找到一个像军方这样的用户，就像得到一个催化剂，有助于迅速扩大技术的生产规模，使其随即在民用市场投入应用。”普里默斯绿色能源公司(Primus Green Energy)首席执行官鲍勃·约翰逊(Bob Johnsen)说道，该公司从生物质和天然气中研制燃料，“如果军方成为买家，就能使生产企业筹措到资金。”
The Defense Department is always vulnerable to charges of overspending — remember the $7,600 coffee maker? — but military leaders argue that what they are putting into biofuels is a blip given the potential benefits of reducing their need for Middle Eastern oil, with all its volatilities.
国防部很容易受到花钱太多的指责，还记得军方用7600美元买的那台咖啡机吗？不过军方却称，中东石油存在诸多不稳定性，减少对其需求的潜在好处相当巨大，与之相比，目前的投入简直微不足道。
“Our primary rationale is not economic,” said Sharon E. Burke, assistant secretary of defense for operational energy plans and programs. “Our job is to defend the country.”
美国国防部负责作战能源计划与项目的助理部长莎伦·E·伯克(Sharon E. Burke)说，“我们的首要出发点不是经济层面的，我们的职责是保卫国家。”
She said biofuel spending was just 4 percent of the $1.6 billion budget the military was requesting for efforts to improve energy usage in field operations in the next fiscal year. Most of the measures are aimed at reducing the need for fuel in the first place, including using diesel electricity generators more efficiently, putting greener engines into vehicles and aircraft, and using hybrid solar generators and batteries in the field.
她说，在军方下一财年的预算中，为改善野战能源使用而申请的16亿美元预算里，生物燃料开支仅占4%。多数举措的目的首先是减少能源需求，包括更高效地利用柴油发电机、在车辆和飞机上使用更环保的发动机、在战场上使用混合动力太阳能发电机和电池。
The Defense Department is also running several demonstration projects on its bases, testing ways to produce and distribute electricity better. And the Army recently put out a request for proposals for $7 billion in renewable energy projects, part of reaching its goal of getting a gigawatt of its electricity — enough to power roughly 250,000 American homes — from renewable sources by 2025.
国防部还在其基地中开展着多个示范项目，对更好的发电、配电方法进行试验。美国陆军发出了价值70亿美元的可再生能源项目招标，部分原因是为了满足到2025年利用可再生能源生产1兆千瓦电力的目标，这些电力大约能够满足25万户美国家庭的用电需求。
In Congress, there is little apparent opposition to the overall military push toward renewable power generation or energy efficiency.
美国军方总体上推动可再生能源发电，或提高能源效率的做法，在国会几乎没有遇到明显的反对。
But the biofuel program has struck a nerve among Republicans who, ever since the government’s failed investment in the solar panel maker Solyndra, have been wasting few opportunities to hammer their message that the government should not risk taxpayer money to bolster favored technologies.
然而生物燃料项目却激起了共和党人的强烈反应。自从政府向太阳能组件生产商索林卓公司(Solyndra)进行投资失败以来，共和党一直在不遗余力地反复宣扬，政府不应当用纳税人的钱冒风险，推动它所青睐的技术。
Representative Mike Conaway, a Texas Republican who introduced House legislation that would limit biofuel purchasing and production and has been critical of the Great Green Fleet, said Democrats were using the military to pursue an environmental agenda. “We just want to require the Department of Defense to do exactly what every other American does when they buy fuel: they try to get the best price they can,” he said.
德克萨斯州共和党众议员麦克·科纳韦(Mike Conaway)曾引入了一项限制生物燃料采购和生产的众议院法案，并且一直对“伟大的绿色舰队”持批评态度。他说，民主党是在利用军方推行环保议程，“我们只是想要求国防部在购买燃油时，像所有美国人一样，尽可能地去找最优惠的价格。”
Many of the lawmakers objecting to the biofuels program — including some Democrats who crossed the aisle to support new limits — represent coal country or take money from those in the coal and natural gas industries. 
许多反对生物燃料计划的议员，包括一些脱离民主党阵营，转而支持设置新限制的民主党议员，要么代表的是产煤地的利益，要么曾从煤炭和天然气产业收到过政治捐款。
What happens to the military biofuels program could hinge on the fall elections. The Obama administration has opened the government’s purse to provide the kinds of stable contracts and investments that companies say are necessary to raise financing to develop and build commercial biofuel production facilities.
美国军方生物燃料计划的未来，可能取决于今年秋天的选举。奥巴马政府已经打开了政府的荷包，为企业提供稳定的合同和投资。企业表示，这些合同和投资，对于筹措资金用于研发和建设商用生物燃料生产设施是很必要的。
While Mitt Romney’s position on the military biofuels program is unclear, he has signaled that the Pentagon’s emphasis on using more clean energy would not be a priority in his administration. “When the biggest announcement in his last State of the Union address on improving our military was that the Pentagon will start using more clean energy,” Mr. Romney said at the V.F.W. convention this summer, “then you know it’s time for a change.”
尽管米特·罗姆尼对军方生物燃料项目的立场尚不明朗，但他曾暗示，尽管五角大楼重视使用更清洁的能源，但这并不会成为他的政府的工作重心。今年夏天，罗姆尼在海外战争退伍军人协会(VFW)的会议上发言说，“他在上一次国情咨文演说中，对于增强军队所宣布的最重要的事情是，让军方提高清洁能源的使用。这下你就知道，应该作出转变了。”
Should that view prevail, the industry’s already slow development could stagnate, with many of the smaller companies potentially going out of business.
如果罗姆尼的观点能够胜出，那么生物能源产业已然缓慢的发展步伐可能会出现停滞，许多规模较小的企业可能倒闭。