WASHINGTON — Iran has deployed advanced rockets and missiles to Iraq to help fight the Islamic State in Tikrit, a significant escalation of firepower and another sign of Iran’s growing influence in Iraq.
华盛顿——伊朗已经在伊拉克部署了较先进的火箭弹和导弹，以帮助该国在提克里特打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。这不仅是一次重大的火力升级，也是伊朗在伊拉克的影响力越来越大的又一标志。
United States intelligence agencies detected the deployments in the past few weeks as Iraq was marshaling a force of 30,000 troops — two-thirds of them Shiite militias largely trained and equipped by Iran, according to three American officials. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive intelligence reports on Iran.
三位美国官员说，美国情报机构过去几周中发现了这些部署，当时伊拉克正在整编一支3万人的部队——其中三分之二是什叶派民兵，主要由伊朗提供培训和装备。由于讨论的是有关伊朗的敏感情报报告，这些官员不愿具名。
Iran has not yet launched any of the weapons, but American officials fear the rockets and missiles could further inflame sectarian tensions and cause civilian casualties because they are not precision guided. Their deployment is another dilemma for the Obama administration as it trains and equips the Iraqi military and security services to help defeat the Islamic States, but unlike Iran is unwilling to commit fighters and advisers who join Iraqi forces in the field.
伊朗尚未发射任何武器，但美国官员担心，由于这些火箭弹和导弹缺乏精确制导功能，它们可能会进一步激化教派冲突，造成平民伤亡。它们的部署给奥巴马政府制造了另一个进退两难的窘境，因为美国也在为伊拉克军队和安全部队提供培训和装备，帮助他们打击伊斯兰国，但与伊朗不同的是，美国不愿派遣战斗人员和顾问与伊拉克部队并肩作战。
One senior American military official who tracks classified intelligence reports said Iran had deployed Fajr-5 artillery rockets and Fateh-110 missiles and their launchers. Another senior American military official who also monitors sensitive government reports on Iran said the deployed weapons were similar to the Fajr-5 rockets and Fateh-110 missiles but were slightly different and had different names. The official offered no other details. The C.I.A. declined to comment.
一位了解机密情报报告的美国高级军事官员说，伊朗已部署了Fajr-5火箭弹和“征服者-110”(Fateh-110)导弹及其发射装置。另一位美国高级军事官员也一直关注着和伊朗有关的敏感政府报告，他说这次部署的武器类似于Fajr-5火箭弹和“征服者-110”导弹，但略有差异，名字也不同。该官员没有透露其他细节。中央情报局拒绝对此置评。
Either way, American officials agreed that the Iranian missiles introduced a new level of advanced weaponry to the battlefield in Iraq, even as some experts questioned their usefulness at this stage in the battle for Tikrit. But the Fajr-5 rockets are the same weapons that Hamas has fired against Israel in recent conflicts. Hezbollah and the Syrian Army have also been using Iranian rockets and missiles for some time, military specialists said.
无论具体细节如何，美国官员都认为，伊朗的导弹把伊拉克战场的武器装备级别提升到了一个新的水平，虽然一些专家认为这些武器在提克里特这一阶段的战斗中用处不大。哈马斯就在最近的一些冲突中向以色列发射过Fajr-5火箭弹。军事专家说，真主党和叙利亚军队使用伊朗的火箭弹和导弹也已经有一段时间了。
The second senior American military official said the Iranian missiles are “not a big deal at this point,” but then quickly added, “My concern, as with artillery and other non-precise weapons, is collateral damage if they employ them.”
第二位美国高级军事官员说，伊朗的导弹“在目前这个阶段无关紧要”，但随后很快又说，“我担心使用它们会造成附带损失，就像使用大炮和其他非精确武器一样。”
There has been growing international pressure to avoid civilian casualties and revenge attacks on people or property in an operation by a mostly Shiite force in a hub of the so-called Sunni triangle. Appearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee on March 3, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, alluded to the deployment of the rockets and missiles when he said, “This is the most overt conduct of Iranian support, in the form of artillery and other things.”
提克里特位于“逊尼派三角区”的中心地带，国际社会正在施加越来越大的压力，要求在以什叶派为主的部队开展的行动中避免平民伤亡，避免对人员或财产开展报复性袭击。3月3日，在参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)，参谋长联席会议主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Martin E. Dempsey)间接提到了火箭弹和导弹的部署，他表示，“这是伊朗提供的最明显的支持，以火炮和其他东西的形式出现。”
General Dempsey also said that while the involvement of Iranian-backed Shiites in Tikrit could be “a positive thing,” he voiced concerns that “it will only be a problem if it results in sectarianism.”
邓普西上将还表示，尽管伊朗支持的什叶派介入提克里特的战斗可能是“一个积极的现象”，他表达了一些担忧，“如果引发了教派分歧，那就只会造成麻烦”。
That sentiment underscored the reality that even though American officials have deep reservations about Iran’s enduring role in Iraq, Iraqis need Iranian help in defeating the Islamic State.
这种情绪突显了以下现实：尽管美国官员对伊朗在伊拉克的长期角色有很大疑虑，伊拉克需要伊朗的帮助才能打败伊斯兰国。
“Are you concerned that Iran has basically taken over the fight?” Senator John McCain, an Arizona Republican who heads the Armed Services Committee, asked Defense Secretary Ash Carter at the same March 3 hearing.
“你是否担心伊朗基本上接管了这场战争？”亚利桑那州的共和党参议员、军事委员会(Armed Services Committee)主席约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)在3月3日的这场听证会上也向国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)提出了同样的问题。
“Sectarianism is what brought us to the point where we are,” Mr. Carter replied. “And so I do look at it with concern. We’re watching it very closely.”
“目前的一切都是宗派主义造成的，”卡特回答说。“所以我对伊朗的确有所担心。我们正在密切关注伊朗的一举一动。”
American officials say they believe Iran imported the rockets and missiles for the Tikrit operation because other artillery was not able to reach targets around the city in what has become a difficult, protracted battle. Even after weeks of fighting, Islamic State militants remained dug in on Monday in Tikrit and still controlled parts of the city against the much larger pro-government force.
美国官员称，他们认为，伊朗向提克里特的军事行动输出火箭弹和导弹是因为，在这场已经变得十分艰难和漫长的战斗中，其他武器无法覆盖城市各处的目标。周一，伊斯兰国的极端分子仍然固守在提克里特，并控制着城市的部分地区，在抵抗规模大得多的亲政府武装。
And in a sign of how much this battle reflected the entire campaign against ISIS, Iraqi officials said they were pausing their offensive to summon reinforcements and to preserve property and civilian lives.
此外，伊拉克官员称，为了召集增援力量，保护财产和平民的生命安全，他们暂停了攻势，从而显示出，这场战斗恰如其分地反映了打击ISIS的战争的情况。
The Fajr-5 rocket and Fateh-110 missile launching systems are typically carried on a specially designed truck and are formidable additions to the Iraqi arsenal. Fajr-5 rockets, which are named after the Persian word for dawn, have a range of about 45 miles. Each is 20 feet long and weighs more than 2,000 pounds. The Fajr-5 warhead alone weighs 375 pounds.
Fajr-5火箭和征服者-110导弹发射系统一般由专门的卡车运载，是对伊拉克军火的强力补充。Fajr-5火箭的名字来自于波斯语中“黎明”一词，射程约45英里（约合72公里）。每颗火箭有20英尺长（约合6米），重量逾2000磅（约合900千克）。单是Fajr-5弹头就有375磅重。
It is unclear how many rockets and missiles the Iranians brought with launchers or how they would resupply their stockpile should the trained Iranian crews employ them, said one senior American military official.
一名美国高级军事官员说，尚不清楚伊朗人带去了多少火箭弹和导弹，以及发射器，也不清楚如果经过训练的伊朗操作人员使用了它们，将如何重新进行补给。
The Fateh-110 missile is even more capable than the Fajr-5, military specialists said on Monday, but they questioned the need for them in Tikrit now that the battle has moved to close-quarters, urban combat, when unguided rockets and missiles are not as useful. “Generally speaking, these weapons are more effective at terrorizing civilians than providing fire support for ground operations,” said Jeffrey Lewis, a nonproliferation analyst at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey. “That is how Hezbollah has used them. I don’t expect that either system will produce dramatically different results on the battlefield.”
军事专家周一称，征服者-110比Fajr-5威力更大，但他们不认为提克里特目前真的需要它们，因为战争已经转向近距战斗和巷战，此时，非制导火箭弹和导弹的作用会减小。“总体而言，这些武器更大的作用是恐吓平民，而不是为地面行动提供军火支持，”蒙特雷国际研究学院(Middlebury Institute of International Studies)的核不扩散分析员杰弗里·刘易斯(Jeffrey Lewis)说。“黎巴嫩真主党曾经以这种方式使用过这两种武器。我不认为这两种武器会在战场上产生非常大的影响。”
Military specialists speculated that Iranians might have brought the weapons into Iraq with the idea that they would use them if they could not effectively advance on Tikrit, and now may be keeping them there with the expectation of using them in a future battle, perhaps for the city of Mosul.
军事专家推测，伊朗人最初把武器送到伊拉克的想法可能是，如果他们在提克里特不能有效地推进，就会使用这些武器，而他们现在把武器留在那里，可能是希望在未来的战斗中使用它们，比如争夺摩苏尔城的战斗。
Over all, the military specialists said it was not particularly surprising to see the Iranians deploying the advanced rockets and missiles to the fight in Iraq.
军事专家称，总体而言，看到伊朗人在伊拉克的战斗中部署先进的火箭弹和导弹，并不感到特别意外。
These officials said that the deployment builds on a pattern of assistance that Iran and its proxies have provided Iraq since 2004, and most recently accelerated in an effort to blunt the Islamic State’s momentum. Even as American warplanes provided cover, Iranian-trained Shiite militias last August broke a weeklong ISIS siege of Amerli, a group of farming villages whose Shiite residents faced possible annihilation.
这些官员称，这些武器部署之前，伊朗及其代理势力自2004年以来就一直在向伊拉克提供援助，而且为了阻挡伊斯兰国的势头，不久前还加快了援助的速度。在美国战机提供掩护的同时，伊朗训练的什叶派武装分子去年8月突破了ISIS对阿莫利(Amerli)的围攻。阿莫利是一片务农的村庄，那里的什叶派居民当时可能面临着灭顶之灾。
Last summer, when Islamic State militants first captured Mosul and got within striking distance of Erbil, the Kurdish capital, the head of Iran’s Quds Force and its chief spymaster, Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, flew to Erbil with two planes full of military supplies, American and regional diplomats said. The Iranian move helped to bolster Kurdish defenses around Erbil.
美国和周边国家的外交官说，去年夏天，当伊斯兰国的极端分子首次占领摩苏尔，并且进入对库尔德斯坦首府埃尔比勒可以实施打击的范围时，伊朗圣城军(Quds Force)指挥官和主要间谍首脑卡西姆·苏莱马尼少将(Qassim Suleimani)带着两架满载军事物资的飞机抵达了埃尔比勒。伊朗的这一举动帮助加强了库尔德武装在埃尔比勒附近的防御力量。