PARIS — Looking awed by the sumptuous gilded surroundings of the United States ambassador’s residence here, the three young American men who thwarted an attack on a Paris-bound express train appeared at a news conference on Sunday, brushing aside suggestions that they were heroes.
巴黎——在美国大使金碧辉煌的官邸内，众人以崇敬的态度注视着三名出席周日新闻发布会的美国青年。他们在开往巴黎的高速列车上成功阻止了一起枪击案，却没有在会上接受自己是英雄的说法。
Airman First Class Spencer Stone; Alek Skarlatos, a specialist in the Oregon National Guard; and Anthony Sadler, a friend of theirs, sat side by side, soberly recounting how a European vacation swiftly turned into something else. In their telling, the dramatic moments in the railway car could have been a particularly lively finish to an otherwise great night out: no heroics, and nothing dramatic about it.
空军一等兵斯宾塞·斯通(Spencer Stone)、俄勒冈国民警卫队专业军士阿莱克·斯卡拉托斯(Alek Skarlatos)和他们的朋友安东尼·塞德勒(Anthony Sadler)并肩而坐，冷静地讲述他们的欧洲假期如何在转瞬之间发生突变。在他们的叙述中，如果没有发生这些事，当晚原本是一次不错的晚间出游，而火车车厢里的戏剧时刻可以说是给这个夜晚增添了一个特别热闹的结局：没有什么值得大肆渲染的英雄事迹。
Asked what had motivated him to confront a heavily armed man, Mr. Stone, his arm in a sling and one eye bruised from the struggle with the young Moroccan suspect, said simply, “To survive.”
斯通的手臂吊着绷带，一只眼睛还带着和本案中年轻的摩洛哥嫌犯打斗时留下来的淤青。当被问及是什么驱使他直面荷枪实弹的嫌疑人时，他的回答很简单，“为了活命。”
There was no mistaking the gunman’s determination, Mr. Stone said. “He seemed like he was ready to fight to the end, and so were we,” he told reporters.
斯通表示，不难看出歹徒的决心。“他看起来准备好了战斗到最后一刻，我们同样如此，”他这样对记者说。
He was the first of the Americans to tackle the suspect, Ayoub El Khazzani, and he spoke first, blurting out the story as if he were eager to get it over with.
在这三名美国人中，他第一个起身对付嫌疑人阿尤布·卡扎尼(Ayoub El Khazzani)，也是第一个在会上就此事发言的人。他不假思索地说出整个故事，似乎急于了结它。
“I kind of woke up from the middle of a deep sleep,” Mr. Stone said. “I turned around and I saw he had an AK-47 and it looked like” the weapon “wasn’t working, and he was trying to charge his weapon, and Alek just hit on my shoulder and said, ‘Let’s go,’” Mr. Stone said. “And I went down, tackled him and put him on the ground, and Alek came up and grabbed the thing out of his hand.”
“我好像刚从熟睡中醒来，”斯通说。“回头一看，见到他拿着AK-47步枪，看起来‘武器’出了点问题，他正打算给枪装弹，这时候阿莱克碰了碰我的肩膀说，‘我们上。’于是我俯身把他扑倒在地，阿莱克上前从他手里夺走了家伙。” 
But the trouble was not over. “It seemed like he just kept pulling more weapons,” Mr. Stone said. Those included a box cutter with which he sliced up the young airman’s hand.
不过麻烦并没有结束。“他不停地拿出更多的武器，”斯通说。这其中包括一把美工刀，歹徒正是用它划伤了这名年轻空军的一只手。
The three held Mr. Khazzani and punched him until he fell unconscious. “The guy had a lot of ammo,” Mr. Skarlatos said.
这三名美国人捉住卡扎尼并将其打昏。“这家伙有很多弹药，”斯卡拉托斯说。
Right to the end of the brief encounter with reporters here, the men remained modest. “It was just, mostly, survival,” Mr. Skarlatos said.
直至这次和记者的简短会面结束之际，他们三人一直很谦逊。“整件事很大程度上只是为了活命，” 斯卡拉托斯说。