The Senate on Thursday approved the most significant overhaul of the nation’s immigration laws in a generation with broad support generated by a sense among leading Republicans that the party needed to join with Democrats to remove a wedge between Republicans and Hispanic voters.
周四，美国参议院批准了整整一个世代以来最重大的移民改革法案，该法案得到了广泛的支持，原因是参议院中的共和党领导人物察觉到，共和党需要和民主党携起手来，这样才能消除自身与西语裔选民之间的隔阂。
The strong 68-to-32 vote in the often polarized Senate tossed the issue into the House, where the Republican leadership has said that it will not take up the Senate measure and is instead focused on much narrower legislation that would not provide a path to citizenship for the 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the country. Party leaders hope that the Senate action will put pressure on the House.
在往往两极分化的参议院，68票支持对32票反对的有力投票结果把该议题移交给了众议院，与此同时，共和党在众议院的领导人物已经表示，众议院不会接受参议院的提案，将会转而聚焦于限制性更强的立法提案，后者不会给美国的1100万非法移民提供入籍途径。两党领导人希望，参议院的行动能给众议院造成压力。
Leading up to the final votes, which the senators cast at their desks to mark the import of the moment, members of the bipartisan “Gang of Eight,” who drafted the framework of the legislation, took to the Senate floor to make a final argument for the measure. Among them was Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, who is one of his party’s leading Hispanic voices. When Mr. Rubio finished, the other senators in the group surrounded him on the floor, patting him on the back and offering words of encouragement.
在最后的投票中，参议员们在他们的办公桌上投票，以此强调这个时刻的重大意义。将要投票之前，由两党参议员组成的“八人帮”走上讲台，为他们的提案做最后的陈词。该提案的框架就是“八人帮”起草的。“八人帮”当中有来自佛罗里达州的共和党参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)，他是该党主要的西语裔移民支持者之一。卢比奥讲完之后，在场的其他“八人帮”成员簇拥着他，向他表示赞许和鼓励。
The future will show whether voters in Republican presidential primaries share that pride.
未来将会显示，在共和党的总统初选中，选民们会不会分享这份自豪感。
After Mitt Romney’s loss in November, top Republicans immediately began formulating a way to improve the party’s standing with Hispanics, who have flocked to Democrats. A group of top Republican political and business officials who support an immigration overhaul met at the downtown Washington office of the antitax leader Grover Norquist on Jan. 17 with memories of Mr. Romney’s poor showing in their minds.
米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)于去年11月在总统选举中落败之后，共和党高层立即开始制定方案，希望改善该党在西语裔选民中的名声。这些选民已经一窝蜂地倒向了民主党。今年1月17日，一群支持移民法案的共和党政界及商界高官，脑海里带着对罗姆尼糟糕表现的记忆，在反税收领导人格罗佛·诺奎斯特(Grover Norquist)位于华盛顿市中心的办公室进行了会面。
Optimism ran high at the session, which included Mr. Norquist, the former national party chairman Ed Gillespie and representatives of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Reeling from a second consecutive presidential loss, the strategists were hopeful that the wall of conservative opposition that blocked immigration legislation under President George W. Bush could be breached.
会议期间，乐观情绪高涨，与会者包括共和党全国委员会前主席埃德·吉莱斯皮(Ed Gillespie)和美国商会(U.S. Chamber of Commerce)的一些代表。连续两次总统选举失利之后，这些策略师对打破由保守反对意见筑起的高墙心怀希望，这堵墙曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)执政时期封杀了移民法案。
Now, even after the lopsided Senate vote, the prospects appear grim for the pro-overhaul Republicans. And Mr. Rubio, the 42-year-old Cuban-American who is seen as a prime White House contender in 2016, is confronting rising criticism from conservatives for pushing legislation with Democratic boogeymen like President Obama and Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York.
现在，即使参议院出现了一边倒的投票结果，支持移民法案的共和党人似乎依然前景黯淡。42岁的古巴裔美国人卢比奥被视为2016年总统选举的一个主要竞争者，如今却面临着保守派日渐高涨的指责，原因是他和奥巴马总统、纽约州参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)等民主党“恶人”一道推动移民法案。
“Before the Gang of Eight and the immigration debate, I think many conservatives as well as some establishment Republican folks saw Senator Rubio as a possible bridge candidate between the conservative, Tea Party base of the G.O.P. and more establishment G.O.P. voters,” said Greg Mueller, a conservative public relations executive who opposed the Senate bill. “That position is on much shakier ground today because conservatives and the Tea Party see the immigration bill as a big-government piece of legislation resembling Obamacare.”
反对这项参议院提案的保守派公关专员格雷格·米勒(Greg Mueller)称，“在‘八人帮’出现和移民法辩论之前，我以为，很多保守派人士，加上一些坚定的共和党成员，都认为卢比奥议员可能会在保守派、共和党的茶党基础和更坚定的共和党选民之间架起一座桥梁。现在，这样的看法已经摇摇欲坠，因为在保守派和茶党看来，移民法案是与奥巴马医改类似的大政府立法。”
Republicans strongly opposed to the immigration bill said they had little sympathy for Mr. Rubio.
一些强烈反对移民法案的共和党人表示，他们对卢比奥几乎没有什么同情。
“I don’t think we’re doing any damage to him,” said Representative Tim Huelskamp, Republican of Kansas. “I think he’s done damage to himself with the amnesty bill.”
堪萨斯州共和党众议员蒂姆·许尔斯卡普(Tim Huelskamp)称，“我认为，我们并没有给他带来任何伤害。我认为，他已经通过这项赦免法案伤害了自己。”
Alex Conant, Mr. Rubio’s spokesman, said: “Immigration is a personal issue for Senator Rubio, and he took it on because he thought it was the right thing to do. There may be some political implications, especially in the short term, but it wasn’t an issue he believed he could ignore. We don’t expect any parades for our work on this.”
卢比奥的发言人亚历克斯·科南特(Alex Conant)称，“对卢比奥议员来说，移民是个牵涉个人情感的问题。他这么做，是因为他认为这么做是正确的。这个问题也许会造成一些政治后果，尤其是在短期内，即便如此，他还是认为自己不能忽略这个问题。在这个问题上，我们没想通过自己的工作赢得任何祝贺。”
On Thursday, Mr. Rubio had little cover from his party’s right flank, much less a parade.  Not wanting to tempt primary opponents next year, the top two Senate Republican leaders — Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and John Cornyn of Texas — cast “no” votes.  And a potential 2016 presidential primary rival for Mr. Rubio, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, also voted against the legislation, despite making a show of announcing his general support for an immigration overhaul earlier in the year.
周四，卢比奥几乎没有得到本党右翼的支持，更不用说祝贺了。两个参议院共和党领导人物，肯塔基州的米奇 ·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)和德克萨斯州的约翰·科宁(John Cornyn)，都不想冒险招惹明年的主要对手，因此投了“反对”票。肯塔基州参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)是卢比奥在2016年大选初选中的一个潜在对手，他也投票反对这项立法，尽管他今年早些时候还曾经做秀宣布，自己对整改移民法案大体支持。
The Senate bill provides a 13-year path to citizenship for the 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the country, as well as tough border security provisions that must be in place before the immigrants can gain legal status.
这项参议院提案为美国的1100万非法移民提供了一条需时13年的通往公民身份之路，以及一个必须在移民有机会获得合法身份之前生效的更严厉的边境安全条例。
The legislation — drafted largely behind closed doors by the group of eight senators — brought together an unlikely coalition of Democrats and Republicans, business groups and labor unions, farmworkers and growers, and Latino, gay rights and immigration advocates.
这项法案大部分是由“八人帮”的议员私下草拟的，做到了一件几乎不可能做到的事情，把民主党人和共和党人、商业团体和劳工组织、农场工人和种植者，以及倡导西语裔、同性恋及移民权益的人士联合在了一起。
But Speaker John A. Boehner threw cold water on any hope that the House would vote on the Senate plan, and he insisted that whatever immigration measure his chamber took up would have to be supported by a majority of his Republican conference.
但是，议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)为众议院支持这项参议院计划的前景泼了一瓢冷水。他坚称，无论他所在的议院拟出什么样的移民措施，都需要得到大多数共和党成员的支持。
As daunting to the pro-overhaul Republicans as Mr. Boehner’s apparent opposition is the structure of the Republican House majority, strategists say. More than 70 percent of districts held by House Republicans have a population that is 10 percent or less Hispanic, National Journal reported. And the Republican districts where there is a significant Hispanic population are in heavily conservative terrain in California and Texas.
一些策略师称，和博纳的明确反对一样，让支持整改的共和党人感到十分棘手的还有众议院共和党多数群体的结构。根据《国家杂志》(National Journal)的统计，众议院共和党人代表的选区中，有70%以上的选区只有10%或更小比例的西语裔人口。此外，共和党那些有大量西语裔人口的选区都位于深受保守派影响的加利福尼亚州和德克萨斯州。