President Obama’s handling of the economy may be reviled by his political opponents, but he is receiving support from a surprising quarter: foreign exchange traders.
奥巴马总统的经济举措可能会遭到其政敌的斥责，但他却意外地获得了外汇交易商的支持。
The United States dollar, after one of its most prolonged weak spells ever, has re-emerged as the preferred currency for global investors. Across trading desks in New York, London and elsewhere, analysts are rushing to raise their dollar forecasts based on the resurgence in the American economy.
在经过有史以来最长的疲软期后，美元再次成为全球投资者的首选货币。从纽约、伦敦到世界各地的交易室，分析人士纷纷根据美国经济的复苏情况，提高他们对美元的预估。
In part, this bullish mood is tied to signals from the Federal Reserve that it will soon stop its bond-buying program — a change that would lift interest rates and buoy the dollar.
这种乐观情绪部分源于美联储(Federal Reserve)释放的信号——它将很快终止债券购买计划。这一改变将提高利率，提振美元。
Yet the recent rally in the dollar — it has gained about 3.2 percent against the euro since late August and about 8 percent against the yen since July 1 — underscores expectations that the United States economy will continue to grow at a faster clip than that of Europe, Japan and even large emerging markets, all of which are seeing their economies stagnate.On Thursday, the dollar extended its rise, reaching a two-year high of 1.27 against the euro following the release of data in Germany that showed a decline in business confidence there. Against a broad basket of currencies, the dollar is now trading at a four-year peak.
美元最近的回升趋势——自8月末以来美元兑欧元汇率上涨3.2%，自7月1日以来美元兑日元汇率上涨8%——突显了以下预期：美国经济将持续增长，其速度将超过欧洲、日本，乃至一些大的新兴市场，因为这些国家的经济增长都已经陷入停滞。周四，在德国公布的数据显示该国商业信心水平有所下降之后，美元继续上扬，达到两年来最高水平——欧元兑美元汇率跌至1.27。美元兑一篮子货币的汇率达到四年来最高水平。
The gains in the dollar came on a day when stocks in the United States sustained a broad decline. Near the close., the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index was down 1.6 percent, its biggest drop since July 31. Technology stocks in particular were weak, as shares of Apple slumped some 3.8 percent. The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index was down nearly 2 percent.
美元走强之际，美国股票市场持续大规模下跌。标准普尔500指数在交易日结束时下滑了1.6%，是自7月31日以来的最大降幅。科技股尤其疲弱，苹果(Apple)股票下跌3.8%。偏重科技股的纳斯达克综合指数下挫将近2%。
Treasuries rallied. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose, driving the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, down six basis points, to 2.51 percent.
国债市场出现上扬。作为标准的十年期国债的价格上涨，将反向联动的收益率拉低了六个基点，降至2.51%。
After more than a decade of low interest rates and easy money, the notion of a strong dollar harks back to some seemingly distant periods in economic history, like the years of balanced budgets under President Clinton in the 1990s or the height of Ronald Reagan’s popularity in the early to mid-1980s.
在维持了十多年的低利率水平和宽松货币政策后，强劲美元的概念让人想起了经济史上一些看起来似乎非常久远的年头，比如20世纪90年代克林顿(Clinton)总统实现平衡预算的时期，或者是20世纪80年代早期至中期罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)最受欢迎的时候。
During those periods, the United States economy was flush with health, and a muscular currency — which made it attractive for Americans to travel and enabled investors to snap up overseas assets on the cheap — amplified this sense of global might.
在那些年里，美国经济健康发展，强劲的货币使得美国人愿意出游，投资者能以较少资金抢购海外资产，增强了一种世界强国的感觉。
It may be early days for the rally, however. In today’s global, highly interwoven economy, currency moves can be deceptive and fleeting. Still, the increasing push by investors into the dollar can be seen as a favorable report card on the United States economy, highlighting good performance in crucial benchmarks such as growth and fiscal responsibility, and an increasingly competitive position abroad because of a boom in energy exports.
不过，美元的反弹也许刚刚开始。在全球化和高度一体化的当代经济形态下，汇率波动可能带有欺骗性，而且是瞬息万变。然而，投资者对美元日益热切的追捧，可以看作是美国经济成绩单令人满意的迹象。它所突显的是：就促进经济增长、负起财政责任等关键指标而言，美国经济有上佳表现；另外，由于能源出口的激增，其海外竞争力也日益提高。
“As long as the U.S. continues to grow and the rest of the world remains stagnant, the dollar will rally,” said Stephen L. Jen, a former economist for the International Monetary Fund who runs a hedge fund based in London.
“只要美国经济继续增长，而世界其他国家的经济继续低迷，美元就会反弹，”曾是国际基金组织( International Monetary Fund )的经济学家、目前管理着伦敦一家对冲基金的任永力(Stephen L. Jen)说。
A strong dollar is not always a plus. Over time, it can stall economic growth by hurting exports, although economists point out that even with its recent spurt the currency remains undervalued in historical terms.
强势美元并非总能带来好处。从长期来看，它会损害出口，从而拖累增长。不过有经济学家指出，相对历史水平而言，即便算上最近的增幅，美元依然处于被低估的状态。
Fed Signals No Hurry to Raise Interest Rates
美联储表示不会急于加息。
Another consequence of a stronger dollar is currency instability in emerging markets.
美元走强的另外一个后果是，新兴市场的货币会变得不稳定。
As currencies like the Turkish lira, the Brazilian real and the Chinese renminbi weaken, investors will be less willing to hold on to their assets in these countries — choosing instead to park their money in higher-yielding dollar assets in the United States.
当土耳其的里拉、巴西的雷亚尔和中国的人民币等货币疲软之际，投资者往往不太愿意继续持有在这些国家的资产——而是会选择把钱投在美国的那些收益率较高的美元资产上。
“The currency markets will become much more volatile,” said Mohamed A. El-Erian, a former top executive at the bond giant Pimco who also worked at the International Monetary Fund.
“货币市场会变得更加动荡，”债券业巨头太平洋投资管理公司(PIMCO)的前首席执行官穆罕默德·A·埃里安(Mohamed A. El-Erian)说。埃里安也曾供职于国际货币基金组织。
Bolstering the dollar’s fortunes is a realization among traders and economists that the growth gap between the United States and much of the rest of the world has not been this wide for quite some time.
提振美元前景的，是交易商和经济学家群体形成的一种认知：美国对世界上许多国家的经济增长优势，达到了很长一段时间以来的最高水平。
According to estimates from Nomura, the investment bank, the United States’ estimated growth of 3.1 percent next year outpaces that of Latin America, emerging and developed Europe, and Japan, with only the Asian bloc of nations, at 6.2 percent, performing better.
投资银行野村证券(Nomura)预计，2015年，美国的经济增长率将为3.1%，高于拉美地区，高于欧洲新兴市场和发达国家，也高于日本——仅次于亚洲新兴市场的6.2%。
“I can’t remember the last time there was such a gap,” Mr. Jen said.
“我都记不起上一次出现这样大的优势是什么时候的事了，”任永力说。
Past periods of dollar strength came when the dollar’s status as a reserve currency was more firmly entrenched. More than a decade of easy credit in the United States, the start of the euro and China’s emergence as an economic colossus made the dollar less popular for global central banks, which diversified into euros, the renminbi and other alternatives.
以往，每当美元作为储备货币的地位得到巩固，强势美元的时代就会来临。在美国实施了十多年的宽松信贷政策、欧元的启动、以及中国作为经济大国的崛起等因素的影响下，世界各国的央行不再那么青睐美元。它们持有的外汇储备变得多样化，欧元、人民币以及其他一些可选货币受到了关注。
Now, with the Federal Reserve cementing its role as a lender of last resort to central banks all over the world, the dollar is poised to recapture lost ground as the preferred currency for central banks.“The dollar was never going to disappear, and from a comparative point of view it, is more attractive now,” said Barry Eichengreen an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, and the author of a recent book on the dollar.
目前，随着美联储作为世界各大央行最终放款机构的作用得到强化，美元有望收复失地，重新成为各国央行的首选储备货币。“美元从未消失，相比较而言，它现在还变得更有吸引力了，”加州大学伯克利分校的经济学家巴里·艾肯格林(Barry Eichengreen)说。他最近推出了一本关于美元的著作。
But it is against the Japanese yen that the dollar’s move has been most pronounced: up about 7.4 percent since mid-July. Traders are betting that a weak yen will support the aggressive policies put in place by Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, who has promised to revive the country’s slumbering economy.
美元兑日元汇率的升值幅度最大：自7月中旬以来上涨了7.4%左右。交易商认定，疲软的日元将为日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)所推行的积极经济政策提供支撑。安倍已经承诺，要让该国停滞不前的经济重现生机。
With Japan carrying the largest debt load in the world — 227 percent of its economic output — and with the country’s growth rate at barely 1 percent, the yen would seem to be ripe for the type of precipitous fall experienced by many emerging markets in recent years.
日本是世界上负债率最高的国家——负债额是经济总量的227%——而且由于其经济增长率只有区区1%，日元似乎到了该大跌的时候。近年来，不少新兴市场货币都经历过这种暴跌。
Many traders point to the structural problems in Japan to bolster their prediction that the dollar will strengthen against the yen. More than ever though, underpinning their bullishness is the fact that the United States’ economy — younger, more flexible and with a better handle on its finances — is doing so much better than Japan’s.
许多交易商预测，美元兑日元汇率将继续走强。为了支撑这个观点，他们指出日本经济存在结构性问题。不过，最能支持他们看好美元的是一个事实依据：美国经济——更有朝气、更灵活，也更好地处理了财政问题——要比日本经济的表现强得多。
J. Kyle Bass, a hedge fund investor based in Dallas, says an epic collapse of Japan Inc. may be approaching. He believes that the yen is going to weaken to at least 125 yen against the dollar by the end of the year, from about 109 yen now.
达拉斯一家对冲基金的投资人J·凯尔·巴斯(J. Kyle Bass)称，日本经济或许即将迎来一场历史性的崩盘。他认为，日元将继续走弱，到今年年底，兑美元的汇率至少会从目前的109日元兑1美元跌至125日元。
Mr. Bass has been a frequent and open critic of Japan’s economic policies dating back to 2010.
从2010年至今，巴斯多次公开批评日本的经济政策。