WASHINGTON —  A C.I.A. drone strike in Yemen, the first since the resignation of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi, killed three suspected Qaeda fighters on Monday, American officials said, in a signal that the United States will continue its counterterrorism operations there despite the apparent takeover by Houthi fighters.
华盛顿——美国官员表示，中央情报局(CIA)周日在也门开展无人机袭击行动——自总统阿卜杜·拉布·曼苏尔·哈迪(Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi)辞职以来的第一次袭击行动，击毙三名基地组织武装分子嫌疑人，表明美国将继续在也门开展反恐行动，尽管该国已由胡塞(Houthi)武装分子控制。
A missile launched from a drone struck a car in which the three men were riding in the central province of Marib, near the border with the province of Shabwa, which is believed to be a Qaeda stronghold. The C.I.A. operates a drone base in southern Saudi Arabia.
无人机发射的导弹击中了一辆载有三人的汽车，该汽车正行驶在中部省份马里卜省与沙波瓦省交界处附近，据称是基地组织的据点。中情局在沙特阿拉伯南部有一个无人机基地。
A senior American official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, declined to confirm the names of the victims. A C.I.A. spokesman declined to comment.
一名要求匿名的高级美国官员拒绝确认死者的姓名。中情局发言人拒绝置评。
But a member of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula identified the men killed as Awaid Al-Rashidi, a Saudi citizen in his early 30s who spent years in a Saudi prison before he was released and joined Al Qaeda in Yemen; Abdullah Khaled al-Zindani, a Yemeni citizen from Sana, who with Mr. Rashidi was “active in anti-Houthis activities;” and Mohammed Toiman al-Jahmi, a Yemeni teenager whose father and brother were previously killed in American drone strikes. The Al Qaeda member did not know Mr. Jahmi’s age but said that he was a member of the terrorist group.
但阿拉伯半岛基地组织（Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula，通常简称AQAP）的一名成员确认其中一人是30多岁的阿韦达·拉希迪(Awaid Al-Rashidi)，他在沙特阿拉伯的监狱中待了几年，获释后加入了基地组织也门分支；还有来自萨那的也门公民阿卜杜拉·哈立德·津达尼(Abdullah Khaled al-Zindani)，他和拉希迪“积极参加反胡塞活动”；以及也门青少年穆罕默德·托曼·贾米(Mohammed Toiman al-Jahmi)，贾米的父亲及兄弟之前都在美国的无人机袭击中丧生。这名基地组织成员不知道贾米的年龄，但他表示，贾米是恐怖组织成员。
The strike is the latest episode in the chaos that has engulfed Yemen for months, pitting Mr. Hadi against the Iranian-backed Houthis. Mr. Hadi resigned last week after the Houthis lay siege to the capital, demanding greater political influence for their minority group than Mr. Hadi was willing to allow.
也门数月来深陷混乱，导致哈迪与伊朗支持的胡塞对立，此次袭击是其中的最新发展。胡塞于上周包围首都，为其少数群体谋求更多的、超出哈迪容忍范围的政治影响力，哈迪随后提出辞职。
Mr. Hadi’s resignation raised questions about whether American counterterrorism efforts in Yemen could continue, but the Houthis also oppose Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, leading some American officials to speculate privately that the Houthi takeover may not necessarily signal the end of American efforts.
哈迪辞职的举动引发了一个问题——美国在也门的反恐行动是否会继续，但胡塞也在与AQAP对抗，这导致一些美国官员私下猜测，胡塞掌权不一定标志着美国反恐行动的终结。
Monday’s strike was a clear demonstration that American counterterrorism efforts have not abated. At a news conference in New Delhi on Sunday, President Obama said that his administration would “continue to go after high-value targets inside of Yemen,” and will “continue to maintain the pressure that’s required to keep the American people safe.” Col. Steve Warren, a Pentagon spokesman, on Monday echoed the president, responding to reports that the fall of the Yemen’s U.S.-backed government had led to a suspension of American operations there. “We will continue to hunt A.Q.A.P. wherever they are,” Colonel Warren said,
周一的袭击清楚地表明，美国的反恐行动并未减弱。周日，奥巴马总统在新德里的一次新闻发布会上说，他的政府将“继续对也门境内的高价值目标穷追猛打”，并会“继续保持足够的压力，以保障美国人民安全”。五角大楼发言人史蒂夫·沃伦上校(Col. Steve Warren)周一的讲话呼应了奥巴马的观点，他回应报道称，美国所支持的也门政府的垮台，导致美国在那里的行动暂停。沃伦说，“我们将继续追捕AQAP，无论他们身在何处。”
There was no official reaction from the Houthis to the American strike, but one member of the movement, who is close to the leaders of the group, said “we are against any American plane penetrating our airspace.”
胡塞并未对美国的袭击做出正式反应，但是该组织一名与领导层关系密切的成员说，“所有渗入我们领空的美国飞机都是我们的敌人。”
He added: “But they killed militants who were probably planning an attack against us in Marib.” He did not want to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media.
但他又说：“但他们杀死了可能打算在马里卜省袭击我们的武装分子。”由于无权接受媒体采访，他要求匿名。
The turmoil in Yemen comes at a particularly fraught time, just two weeks after A.Q.A.P. claimed responsibility for the deadly attacks in Paris on the French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo. The French attacks have raised the level of concern about the group, and American officials say they are worried the group could exploit the power vacuum in Yemen.
此时正是一个较为敏感的时期；两周以前，AQAP刚刚宣布对巴黎的法国讽刺性报刊《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)所遭遇的致命袭击负责。法国的袭击增加了人们对该组织的担心。美国官员也表示，他们担心该组织会利用也门的权力真空。
There are also rising fears that the current political standoff could lead to the partition of Yemen. Alarmed by the Houthi’s expansion, the southern separatist movement, Heraq, has been seizing territory and some tribes are now more open to working with Al Qaeda, giving the group a larger pool from which to recruit.
人们也愈发担心，目前的政治僵局可能会导致也门分裂。由于对胡塞的扩张感到震惊，南部分离主义运动南也门运动(Heraq)一直在抢占领土，一些部落现在对与基地组织合作持更加开放的态度，因此该组织在招募人员时有了更多的选择。