NEW DELHI — In a fight with a major company, a frail 84-year-old retired headmaster would seem to be the David to India’s publishing Goliath, Penguin Books.
新德里——在与印度出版巨人企鹅出版集团(Penguin Books)的较量中，一名身体孱弱的84岁退休校长俨然成了《圣经》中大卫一般的人物。
But this week the headmaster, Dinanath Batra, achieved the crowning victory of his career as a right-wing campaigner, forcing Penguin to withdraw and destroy remaining copies of a scholarly work on Hinduism by an American professor that Mr. Batra has called “malicious,” “dirty” and “perverse.”
本周，这位老校长蒂纳纳特·巴特拉(Dinanath Batra)迫使企鹅出版社撤回并销毁了一本有关印度教的学术著作的剩余书册，这是他右翼活动人士生涯的一次巅峰。该书的作者是一名美国教授，巴特拉称这本书“邪恶”、“肮脏”、“变态”。
Mr. Batra’s assiduous legal filings in defense of his religion had sometimes paid off in the past, but never like this. India’s intellectuals actually stopped in their tracks this week, wondering what had frightened Penguin Books India into settling out of court with what one writer termed “an unknown Hindu fanatic outfit.” The Times of India warned of “Taliban-like forces,” and a prominent columnist decried “the pulping of liberal India.” 
巴特拉为捍卫其宗教一直坚持不懈地发起诉讼，他的努力有时会取得成效，但还从未取得如此大的成功。印度的学者本周也颇感震惊，他们不明白，究竟是什么让企鹅出版社如此害怕，以至于如一名作家所说的，与“不知名的印度教狂热分子”寻求庭外和解。《印度时报》(The Times of India)警告称，可能出现“与塔利班类似的力量”。一位知名专栏作家谴责称，“自由主义的印度已经被打烂。”
The announcement has rippled through a city bracing itself for big change. Three months remain before general elections, in which the secular Indian National Congress Party is expected to suffer one of the worst losses in its history to the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party.
该消息在这个正准备迎来重大变革的城市引起了涟漪。目前距大选还有三个月，预计世俗派的印度国大党(Indian National Congress Party)将遭遇其历史上最严重的一次惨败，输给印度教民族主义政党人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)。
The B.J.P.'s leader, Narendra Modi, has campaigned on his economic policies, appealing to the frustrated expectations of India’s new middle class and staying far away from the divisive language of the Hindu right wing, despite his lifelong involvement with its organizations and causes.
人民党领袖纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)在竞选中重点宣传了自己的经济政策，以迎合受挫的印度新兴中产阶级，同时小心地不去使用印度教右翼的分裂性语言，虽然他毕生致力于相关的右翼组织和活动。
Meanwhile, the ruling Congress party’s record on freedom of speech is hardly stellar, as evidenced by India’s sliding ranking in the World Press Freedom Index. Even Salman Rushdie’s book “The Satanic Verses” was banned in India by a Congress government led by Rajiv Gandhi that was fearful of offending Muslims. 
与此同时，执政的国大党的言论自由记录并不光彩，印度在全球新闻自由指数(World Press Freedom Index)里的排名不断下滑。曾几何时，就连萨尔曼·拉什迪(Salman Rushdie)的著作《撒旦诗篇》(The Satanic Verses)都在印度遭禁，只因为拉吉夫·甘地(Rajiv Gandhi)领导的国大党政府担心可能会冒犯到穆斯林。
But now many scholars and intellectuals are worried that an ideological shift is on its way, noting that Mr. Modi has a decades-long association with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a Hindu right-wing organization. Past Hindu nationalist governments have been marked by battles over religion and history. Artists tackling religious themes have been targeted by fringe groups, with an amorphous threat of violence never far.
但是如今，许多学者和知识分子都担心，印度正在经历一场意识形态的变化。他们指出，莫迪与印度教右翼组织民族志工组织(Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)有着长达数十年的渊源。以往在印度教民族主义政府执政时，都爆发过宗教和历史问题上的斗争。以宗教为主题的艺术家一直是极端团体所针对的目标，各种形式的暴力威胁从未远去。
As for Mr. Batra, he said he had no links to the B.J.P., but that he expected efforts like his to pick up steam after the elections.
至于巴特拉，他说他和人民党毫无瓜葛，但他预计，他的这种行为在大选之后会势头更足。
“Good days are coming, boys — I see the signs of a change in political atmosphere,” he said. “Congress is coming down and the third front is coming out and Modi is also coming out. The 60-year rule is coming to an end.”
他说，“好日子来了，兄弟们——我看到了政治氛围发生改变的迹象。国大党正在倒下，第三个阵线联盟东山再起，莫迪也在走向前台。60年的统治正走向终结。”
Penguin Books India has offered no explanation for its decision to withdraw its book, Wendy Doniger’s “The Hindus: An Alternative History,” which was released five years ago in India and the United States. Before filing a lawsuit against the publisher in 2011, Mr. Batra sent a notice warning that the book had “hurt the religious feelings of millions of Hindus,” in violation of section 295A of the Indian Penal Code, which carries a punishment of up to three years in prison.
企鹅出版社印度分社没有解释为什么决定撤下温迪·多尼格(Wendy Doniger)的《印度教徒：一段别样的历史》(The Hindus: An Alternative History)。该书于五年前在印度和美国出版。2011年起诉这家出版商之前，巴特拉发出了一则声明，警告说，该书已经“伤害了无数印度教徒的宗教感情”，违反了《印度刑法典》(Indian Penal Code)295节A款，责任人最高可被处以三年监禁。
There is no evidence that Penguin’s concession, four years later, is in any way linked to the coming election, but for some commentators this week, the two things converged.
四年之后，没有证据显示企鹅的妥协与即将到来的选举有任何关系，但在本周，一些评论人士认为，这两件事关系密切。
Arundhati Roy, the leftist writer and activist, addressed a letter to Penguin, her own publisher, asking why the company compromised “even though there was no fatwa, no ban, not even a court order.” “What was it that terrified you?” Ms. Roy wrote in a column for the Times of India. “The elections are still a few months away. The fascists are, this far, only campaigning. Yes, it’s looking bad, but they are not in power. Not yet. And you’ve already succumbed?”
左翼作家、活动人士阿兰达蒂·罗伊(Arundhati Roy)给企鹅出版社写了一封信，质问这家公司在“没有圣令、禁令，甚至连法庭令都没有”的情况下为什么妥协。企鹅出版社也是她本人的出版商。罗伊在《印度时报》的一篇专栏中写道，“你们到底在怕什么？选举还有几个月，法西斯分子目前也只是在进行竞选活动。是的，情况看起来很糟，但是他们尚未掌权，至少现在还没有，你们就已经屈服了？”
Some observers argue that it is too early to assume that a B.J.P.-led government would be interested in wading into ideological disputes.
一些观察人士认为，就此认定人民党领导的政府将有意插手意识形态之争为时尚早。
Ashok Malik, a popular Indian columnist who has written extensively about Mr. Modi, called it “scaremongering.” When B.J.P. last took power, more than a decade ago, he said, “the cultural warriors got very excited about history textbooks, which, unfortunately, are written by the state.” But he said the party’s current leaders – among them Mr. Modi -- “believe that debate is over,” and are focused on goals that matter more to B.J.P.'s target voters, like building capacity in the higher education system.
撰写了有关莫迪的大量文章的印度著名专栏作者阿肖克·马利克(Ashok Malik)表示，这种说法是在“散布恐惧”。人民党上次掌权要追溯到十多年前。他说，当时“卫道士对历史课本问题感到群情激昂，而不幸的是，课本由国家编写”。不过，他说包括莫迪在内的人民党现任领导层“认为那场争论已经过去了”，如今把注意力放到了该党的目标选民更为重视的目标上，比如扩大高等教育体系的规模。
“His mandate is an economic mandate, and he has to be true to that mandate,” Mr. Malik said. “Twenty or 30 years ago, Modi may have have believed a lot of those things to different degrees, but Modi’s experience as a chief minister for the last 12 years, especially in a state like Gujarat, has proven an enormous learning process for him.”
“他的纲领关注的是经济，他也必须忠于这一纲领，”马利克说。“二三十年前，莫迪或许是多多少少信仰其中很多东西。不过，他在过去12年里担任了邦级的首席部长，而且还是在古吉拉特邦。事实证明，这一经历让他获益良多。”
He added, “Modi may, in his heart of hearts, be a cultural warrior, but if it’s not germane to his political appeal today, he’s going to be practical.”
他还说，“内心深处，莫迪或许是个卫道士，但是，如果跟他今天的政治诉求无关的话，他会讲求实际。”
There is little dispute that India’s reputation for tolerance is fraying. Ms. Doniger’s book is only the most recent book to be withdrawn when faced with the threat of costly litigation.
没什么争议的是，印度的宽容之名正在褪色。多尼格的书不过是面临高额诉讼威胁的书籍被撤回的最新一例。
In January, Bloomsbury India withdrew copies of “The Descent of Air India” against its author’s wishes, and published an apology to a Congress-allied government minister who came in for heavy criticism in the book. In December, the Supreme Court granted a stay of publication of “Sahara: The Untold Story,” an investigation of Indian finance and real estate conglomerate Sahara India Pariwar, until a lawsuit filed by Sahara Group’s head was resolved.
今年1月，布鲁姆斯伯里出版社印度分社(Bloomsbury India)不顾作者的反对，撤回了《印航的坠落》(The Descent of Air India)一书，并向书中遭受猛烈抨击的与国大党联盟的一名政府部长公开致歉。去年12月，最高法院下令暂缓调查性书籍《撒哈拉秘闻》(Sahara: The Untold Story)的出版，直到印度金融业与地产业巨头撒哈拉印度帕里瓦尔集团(Sahara India Pariwar)提起的一宗诉讼得以解决。
After a decade in power, the Congress party bears much responsibility for this decline, said Nilanjana S. Roy, a journalist and literary critic.
记者兼文学评论人尼兰贾纳·S·罗伊(Nilanjana S. Roy)表示，连续执政10年后，国大党的衰落大体上要归咎于自身。
A petition circulated on Thursday by a group of prominent scholars, several of them based in the United States, demanded changes to India’s penal code that would protect serious academic work from frivolous lawsuits, and said that “academic, intellectual and artistic expression of any kind is becoming increasingly hazardous in India.”
上周四，一群知名学者联署的请愿书开始流传，其中几人长期在美国。文中要求改革印度的刑法，进而保护严肃的学术著作免受无理诉讼的侵扰。文中还称，“在印度，所有形式的学术、知识与艺术表达均日趋艰难。”
But in Mr. Batra’s modest office this week, the mood was bright, even celebratory. He offered biscuits to a procession of journalists who came and went all day, and ticked off the well-wishers who had written to congratulate him, including the vice chancellor of Gujarat University.
然而，本周在巴特拉简朴的办公室里，气氛颇为轻松，甚至带有喜庆色彩。他给成天来了又去的大批记者分发饼干，逐一提及给他写来贺信的人，包括古吉拉特大学的校长。
“I will just give you the observation of a judge in the case, who said ‘I started to read it, but I stopped halfway because it was so vulgar and dirty,’ so the judge had given his opinion,” he said. Now, he said, “this society will change, and at the same time there will be a warning not to publish such rubbish books.”
“我就跟你讲讲审理这起案件的一名法官的意见吧。他说，‘我翻开书，读到一半就放下了，太庸俗、太下流。’这就是法官给出的意见，”巴特拉说。他还表示，现如今，“社会将有所转变，同时还会发出警告：不要出版这种垃圾书。”
Penguin’s concession had put a spring in Mr. Batra's step, and he said his next target was another of Ms. Doniger’s books, “On Hinduism,” which he had already festooned with bright green Post-It notes. He dreams of creating a panel to review textbooks for the first 12 grades of India’s government schools. Asked how many he would like to replace, he waved a hand: All of them.
企鹅出版社的退让使得巴特拉倍受鼓舞。他表示，下个目标是多尼格的另一本书《论印度教》(On Hinduism)。他已经往书上贴了不少翠绿的便条。他还梦想着创建一个委员会来审核印度公立中小学的课本。当被问及他希望换掉多少课本时，他摆了摆手：全部都要。
“Alternate books will come out,” he said. “We shall give them guidelines.”
“替代书本将问世，”他说。“我们会给出指导意见。”