Even before revelations that the Fox Sports reporter Erin Andrews was secretly videotaped naked by a stalker in a hotel room in 2008, female sportscasters have understood how frightening obsessed fans can be.
早在2008年埃林·安德鲁斯(Erin Andrews)在一个酒店房间里被跟踪者偷拍裸体视频一事被曝光之前，体育节目的女主持人就知道，狂热的粉丝能有多可怕。
Andrea Kremer recalled being in a hotel room while she was at NFL Films in 1988 when a man called late at night as she was falling asleep.
安德烈娅·克雷默(Andrea Kremer)还记得1988年，她还在NFL影视公司供职时发生过的一件事。有天深夜，她在一个酒店房间里已经睡着，突然接到一名男子打来的电话。
“He started saying all these things he wanted to do to me, and it scared the living hell out of me,” Kremer, who is now with NFL Network and HBO Sports, said. “I hung up, called downstairs, and said: ‘I got a really threatening call. Can you trace it?’ They said it was coming from inside the hotel. Then he called back — it was so chilling and terrifying. I was shaking. My heart was beating fast.”
“他开始说他想对我做这样那样的事，把我吓了个半死，”克雷默说。她现在供职于NFL电视台和HBO体育台。“我挂掉电话，给楼下服务台打电话说，‘我接到了一个非常恐怖的电话。你能查到是哪儿打来的吗？’他们说是酒店内线打过去的。接着，那名男子又打了过来——那个情景十分可怕，让人毛骨悚然。我当时浑身发抖，心跳得很快。”
After another call to the front desk, she said, the hotel stationed a security guard outside her door.
她说她又给服务台打了电话，之后酒店派了个保安站到她的门外。
“I told the men on my crew, and they were livid,” she said. “They said: ‘Why didn’t you call us? We would have slept on the floor.’ ”
“后来我把这件事告诉了组里的男同事，他们很生气，”她说。“他们说，‘你怎么不给我们打电话？我们可以睡到你房间的地板上啊。’”
In an age of round-the-clock sports broadcasting and the widespread dissemination of their work across social media, female sportscasters have unparalleled reach. There are more of them now than ever, across multiple channels and websites.
在这个体育节目24小时不停播出，而且节目在社交媒体上广泛传播的时代，体育节目女主持人在多种渠道和网站上的受众面前所未有地广，受众人数也前所未有地多。
But the flip side can be unwanted attention from an audience that is male dominated, from stalkers or even from self-described fans who recognize them and simply get uncomfortably close.
但不好的一面是，她们会在以男性为主的观众群中，受到一些并不想要的注意。这些人可能是跟踪者，也可能是自称粉丝，但在认出她们后就直接靠过来，近到让人感觉不舒服的人。
Female newscasters and celebrities have long faced such harassment and threats — one newscaster in St. Louis two years ago said she had to quit her job under repeated threats from a stalker — but some sportscasters work in potentially vulnerable and highly visible places like stadiums and arenas where they are in close proximity to passionate fans, many of them males.
长久以来，女性新闻主持人和名人一直面临这样的骚扰和威胁。圣路易斯市一名新闻播音员两年前曾表示，因为有一名跟踪者总是恐吓她，她不得不辞掉了工作。但有些体育记者节目播音员是在体育馆、运动场等存在潜在危险、非常容易被看见的地方工作，在那里，热情的粉丝可以走到离她们很近的地方，而且其中很多是男性。
They routinely take precautions like asking hotel clerks not to say their name loudly when checking in, refusing to step in elevators if they see glaring male eyes, and opting for private transportation in late hours, to avoid the flock of people who often gather outside studios, innocently or not. Some check to make sure the hotel door peephole has not been tampered with, as it was in Andrews’s case.
她们通常会习惯性地采取一些预防措施，比如让酒店员工在她们登记入住时不要大声念房间号；在看到电梯里有男性盯着她们看时，不踏入同一部电梯；夜深的时候，选择乘坐私人交通工具；避开经常在摄影棚外聚集的人群，不管他们看起来是不是善意。有些还会仔细查看入住酒店房间的窥视孔，确保没被做过手脚，就像安德鲁斯那次事件一样。
In one of the most disturbing episodes faced by a female sportscaster, a determined fan named Michael David Barrett used a hacksaw to alter the peepholes of Andrews’s hotel rooms in Nashville and Columbus, Ohio. Jurors on Monday found Barrett and the companies that manage the Nashville Marriott responsible for invading Andrews’s privacy and awarded her $55 million in damages.
那次事件称得上是女性体育节目主持人遇到的最令人不安的情况之一。当时一个名叫迈克尔·戴维·巴雷特(Michael David Barrett)的粉丝，用锯子改装了安德鲁斯在纳什维尔和俄亥俄州哥伦布市入住的数个酒店房间的窥视孔。在周一举行的一场审判中，陪审团认定巴雷特和经营纳什维尔万豪酒店(Nashville Marriott)的公司，对安德鲁斯隐私受侵犯一事负有责任，裁定被告给予她5500万美元的赔偿。
Jessica Mendoza, an analyst on ESPN’s “Sunday Night Baseball,” said that what happened to Andrews made her wonder about taking more than minor precautions like closing the blinds in hotel rooms.
ESPN《周日橄榄球之夜》(Sunday Night Baseball)的解说员杰茜卡·门多萨(Jessica Mendoza)表示，发生在安德鲁斯身上的事让她意识到，单单采取拉上窗帘之类的小预防措施是不够的。
“You think about all the times you’re in a room — and how scary that someone could see me in there,” she said.
“你一直觉得自己是在房间里——但有人却能看到里面的我，这有多恐怖，”她说。
But even less egregious encounters can leave female sportscasters unsettled and almost always on guard.
然而，就算是没那么严重的此类遭遇，也会让女性体育主持人陷入不安，几乎时刻处在防范状态。
Jamie Little of Fox Sports, who primarily covers Nascar and other motor sports, said: “Just last week, I got on an elevator and there were some race fans in there, and they were drinking and it made me a little nervous. And they were kind of watching what floor I was going to, so I pressed the wrong floor. So I go to the wrong floor, get off the elevator, wait for them to go and get back on.”
福克斯体育台(Fox Sports)的杰米·利特尔(Jamie Little)说，“就在上周，我进了一部电梯，里面有三名赛车迷，他们正在喝酒，这让我有点紧张。他们好像在看我准备去哪一个楼层，所以我就按了另外一个楼层。到了那一层之后，我出了电梯，等他们离开，然后再上电梯。”杰米主要报道美国运动汽车竞赛协会(NASCAR)的赛事及其他汽车运动新闻。
In another instance, she said, she was on an airport shuttle on her way to pick up a rental car when a man approached her. She is still not sure if he was an ardent fan, or something else.
她说，还有一次，她坐机场摆渡车去取她租来的一辆车，这时候一名男子靠近了她。她到现在也不确定他是热情的粉丝，还是别的什么。
“This guy turns right into me and says, ‘Hey, Jamie, so you going to so-and-so today?’ I was like, ‘Whoa, hey, well, I’m here for Nascar,’ ” she recalled. “And he kept trying to make small talk. I went down another escalator, and when I looked over, he was literally standing there staring at me, on his phone.
“这个人向右转过来，正对着我说，‘嗨，杰米，你今天这是要去某某某？’我就说，‘哇哦，嗨，嗯，我来这儿报道Nascar，’”她回忆道。“他不停地要和我闲聊。我又乘扶梯往下走了一层，抬头看的时候，发现他就站在那，一边盯着我看，一边在打电话。”
“That kind of stuff makes you worry,” she continued. “You want to give people the benefit of the doubt. ‘Yeah, I’m on TV, it’s not a big deal.’ But you have to watch the mannerisms, the body language, the constant following you as they try to ask questions. I tend to be overly nice to people. When weird things happen, I honestly kind of forget about it because it’s your job and I’ve got to get on a plane the next week.”
“这种事会让人担心，”她接着说。“你很想善意地揣度别人，‘是啊，我总上电视，可这也没什么了不起的’。但你不得不注意对方的言谈举止，观察他们的肢体语言，会不会一直跟着你问问题。我常常对人过分友好。当古怪的情况出现时，我真的就忘了这一点，因为这是你的工作。下一周，我还得乘飞机出差去别的地方。”