LAUSANNE, Switzerland — American officials said on Monday that they were still negotiating with their Iranian counterparts on one of the main issues remaining in their efforts to reach a deal on Iran’s nuclear program — how to dispose of Iran’s big nuclear stockpile — and that shipping the atomic fuel out of the country was still a possibility.
瑞士洛桑——美国官员周一表示，他们仍在与伊朗同行就试图对伊朗核计划达成协议的遗留问题之一进行谈判，那就是如何处理伊朗的大量核储备，仍有可能将这些核燃料运出该国。
The American officials were pushing back against public statements made on Sunday by Iran’s deputy foreign minister, Abbas Araqchi, that seemed to rule out an accord under which uranium would be sent abroad. Those comments represented an apparent change in position by the Iranian negotiators, who had been reported as having tentatively agreed for months to send a large portion of their uranium stockpile to Russia for reprocessing into a form that would be extremely difficult to use in a nuclear bomb.
美国官员们在扭转伊朗副外长阿巴斯·阿拉齐(Abbas Araghchi)周日的公开声明给人的印象，声明似乎排除了达成一种协议的可能性，按照这种协议，伊朗的铀将被送到国外处理。阿拉齐的言论似乎代表了伊朗谈判代表立场的改变，据报道，谈判代表在几个月前就初步同意将铀储备的大部分送到俄罗斯进行加工，使其变成一种很难用于核弹的形式。
The New York Times reported on Monday on the statements made by Mr. Araqchi to a number of Iranian and international news organizations, including Agence France-Presse.
《纽约时报》周一报道了阿拉齐对一些伊朗人、以及包括法新社在内的国际新闻机构发表的声明。
American officials did not criticize Mr. Araqchi’s public comments, which he made to several news organizations. But they insisted that the issue had never been decided in the closed-door talks, even tentatively. That suggests the question may not be resolved until a final accord is struck in June.
美国官员没有批评阿拉齐对新闻机构发表的公开言论。但他们坚持认为，该问题一直没有在闭门谈判中得到解决，即使是暂时性的。这表明，在六月份的最后协议达成前，这个问题也许不会得到解决。
“Contrary to the report in The New York Times, the issue of how Iran’s stockpile would be disposed of had not yet been decided in the negotiating room, even tentatively,” a senior State Department official said in a statement that was emailed to reporters.
“与《纽约时报》的报道相反，有关如何处理伊朗核储备的问题尚未在谈判中做出决定，即使是暂时性的，”国务院一名高级官员在用电子邮件发给记者的一份声明中说。
“There is no question that disposition of their stockpile is essential to ensuring the program is exclusively peaceful,” added the official, who declined to be identified under the department’s protocol for briefing reporters. “There are viable options that have been under discussion for months, including shipping out the stockpile, but resolution is still being discussed. The metric is ensuring the amount of material remaining as enriched material will only be what is necessary for a working stock and no more.”
“毫无疑问，处理他们的储备对确保项目的完全和平性质至关重要，”该官员补充说，按照国务院对记者发布消息的惯例，该官员要求不具名。“几个月来已经讨论过几种可行方案，包括将储备运走，但解决方案仍在讨论中。目标是确保作为浓缩材料留下来的，只是工作反应堆所需的，而不会比其更多。”