UPDATE 12:40 | WASHINGTON — The government’s authority to sweep up vast quantities of phone records in the hunt for terrorists expired at 12:01 a.m. Monday after Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, blocked an extension of the program during an extraordinary and at times caustic Sunday session of the Senate.
更新 12:40｜华盛顿——美国政府出于反恐目的大规模收集电话数据的授权于周一凌晨0点01分到期。周日，在国会反常且不时充满火药味的会议上，参议员兰德·保罗曾阻挠该政府行为的延。
WASHINGTON — In a rare Sunday night session, the Senate voted overwhelmingly to begin a debate on a bill passed by the House to curtail a national security surveillance program approved after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. But the law that authorized the program was set to expire at midnight in the face of continuing opposition from Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky.
华盛顿——在罕见的周日夜间会议上，参议院以绝对多数的投票结果，同意开始讨论众议院通过的一份法案。该法案旨在限制9·11恐怖袭击后实施的国家安全监控项目。不过，授权该项目的法律定于午夜失效，并且遭到了肯塔基州共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)的持续反对。
The 77-to-17 vote was a remarkable turnabout — grudgingly approved by the majority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell, a fellow Kentucky Republican — just a week after the Senate narrowly turned the bill away at his behest. Mr. McConnell, in a desperate attempt to keep the surveillance program going, encouraged senators to vote for a bill that he still found deficient.
77比17的投票结果是一次惊人的逆转——同样来自肯塔基周的参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)只能无奈接受这个结果——因为就在一周前，参议院还在麦康奈尔的要求下以微弱的票数优势拒绝了这个法案。为了让监控项目继续存在下去，麦康奈尔鼓励参议员投票支持一份自己都认为存在瑕疵的法案。
“I remain determined to working toward the best outcome for the American people possible under the circumstances,” Mr. McConnell said. “This is where we are, colleagues — a House-passed bill with some serious flaws, and an inability to get a short-term extend to improve the House bill.”
“我仍然决心要在目前情形下，努力为美国人求得最好的结果，”麦康奈尔说。“这就是我们面对的事实，同僚们——一份众议院通过的、有严重瑕疵的法案，而且无法通过短暂的延期来完善这份法案。”
Mr. Paul, whom Mr. McConnell has endorsed as a presidential candidate, made it clear that he would use his procedural weapon — the words “I object” — to ensure that provisions of the law that the government has been using to sweep up vast amounts of telephone data go away, at least temporarily. He said he would decline to let Mr. McConnell move to a rapid passage of the bill, which requires the consent of every senator, before midnight.
保罗是麦康奈尔支持的总统候选人。他明确表示，将利用程序的武器——即“我反对”这句话——确保删去监控法律的部分条款，起码要暂时删去。政府已经利用这部分条款收集了大量电话数据。他说他会拒绝让麦康奈尔在午夜前把法案转入快速通道——这需要获得每一位参议员的赞成才能做到。
Even as senators were trickling into the Capitol from the airport, Mr. McConnell attempted to extend some aspects of the law as senators worked out a new bill. He asked colleagues to consider a two-week continuation of the federal authority to track a “lone wolf” terrorism suspect not connected to a state sponsor and to conduct “roving” surveillance of a suspect, rather than of a phone number alone, to combat terrorists who frequently discard cellphones — while Congress continued to negotiate a new bill.
就在参议员们正在陆陆续续从机场来到国会的时候，麦康奈尔就已经在设法延长前述法律某些部分的有效期，与此同时参议院正在起草一部新的法案。他要求同僚考虑把以下联邦权力延长两周：追查与支持恐怖主义的国家无关的“独狼”恐怖主义嫌疑人，并对嫌疑人进行“不定点”监视，而非只监听一个电话号码，从而对那些经常丢弃手机的恐怖分子进行打击——与此同时，国会将继续就新法案进行谈判。
But Mr. Paul objected, and Mr. McConnell lashed out from the Senate floor at what he called “a campaign of demagoguery and disinformation” about the program.
但保罗表示反对，麦康奈尔在参议院现场，对他所谓的针对该项目的“煽动和谣言”进行了猛烈抨击。
Mr. McConnell then moved to a second option, a procedural move to take up the bill passed by the House, which he said the Senate would amend this week.
随后，麦康奈尔采取了另一种方式，发起考虑众议院已通过的这项法案的程序动议。他说，参议院本周将对其进行修订。
The bill in question, passed by the House overwhelmingly in May, would overhaul the Patriot Act and curtail the bulk collection of phone records, a program that was exposed by Edward J. Snowden, a former contractor for the National Security Agency. Under the provisions of the House bill, sweeps that had operated under the guise of so-called national security letters issued by the F.B.I. would end. The data would instead be stored by the phone companies and could be retrieved by intelligence agencies only after approval from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act court.
这项于5月在众议院以绝对优势得到通过的的法案，将推翻《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)，减少对电话记录的大量收集——该项目由国家安全局(National Security Agency)前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)披露。根据众议院法案的条款，在联邦调查局(FBI)发出的所谓的国家安全密函的幌子下进行的数据收集活动也将终止。相关数据将由电话公司储存，情报机构只有在得到外国情报监视法院(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)批准后才能调取。