WASHINGTON — The federal government on Monday announced a new set of monitoring guidelines for people arriving from West Africa that stopped short of the tough measures instituted in New York and New Jersey last week, an effort to bring uniformity to a messy patchwork of responses by states.
华盛顿——周一，联邦政府针对来自西非的人员，公布了一套新的监控指导方针。此举旨在让各州的响应措施趋于统一，摆脱目前混乱无序的局面。但这些方针的严厉程度，不及纽约州和新泽西州上个星期出台的措施。
The new policy, which federal health officials said was an effort to strike a balance between safety and civil liberties, would require returning heath care workers, or people who had been near Ebola patients, to submit to an in-person checkup and a phone call from a local public health authority.
联邦卫生官员称，新的政策是为了在安全和公民自由之间取得平衡。该政策将要求从西非回国的医护工作者或曾经接触埃博拉患者的人，接受当地公共卫生官员的亲自检查和电话调查。
That is looser than the stay-home quarantine policies in New York and New Jersey, and many believed that the long-awaited federal response would be unlikely to satisfy the governors of those states, who believe the government needs to be more proactive in preventing potential Ebola patients from spreading the virus.
这种做法比纽约州和新泽西州采取的居家隔离政策更加宽松，许多人认为，这个期待已久的联邦响应措施，不太可能令这些州的州长满意。后者认为，政府需要更积极地防止潜在的埃博拉患者传播该病毒。
Dr. Thomas Frieden, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, who announced the new measures, said: "We believed these are based on science. These add a strong level of protection.”
宣布上述新措施的是美国疾病控制与预防中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）主任托马斯·弗里登博士(Thomas Frieden)。他说：“我们相信这些措施是有科学依据的。它们能够形成一种强有力的保护。”
But the C.D.C. does not have regulatory authority, and it will be up to states to enforce the policy, and a number of states have already indicated that they believe stronger measures should be taken, including Illinois and Florida.
但CDC没有监管权限，这些政策的执行取决于各州政府。有几个州已经表示，认为应该采取更有力的措施，其中包括伊利诺伊州和佛罗里达州。
Approximately 100 people a day arrive to the United States from Sierra Leone, Guinea and Liberia, most of them American citizens or permanent residents. About 70 percent of the people arrive to six states – New York, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Georgia, New Jersey and Virginia. Dr. Frieden argued that his agency was in discussions with states, but did not specify which ones.
每天有大约100人从塞拉利昂、几内亚和利比里亚飞抵美国，他们多数是美国公民，或拥有永久居留权。约70%的人会抵达以下六个州：纽约州、马里兰州、宾夕法尼亚州、乔治亚州、新泽西州和弗吉尼亚州。弗里登称，CDC正在与各州政府进行相关讨论，但没有具体说明是哪些州。
“We found that health departments generally do follow C.D.C. guidelines,” he said. “If they wish them to be more stringent, that is within their authority.”
“我们发现卫生部门基本上没有遵守CDC的指导方针，”他说。“如果它们希望采取更加严格的措施，它们有权力这样做。”
Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia said Monday that his state would begin to monitor travelers arriving from Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone for having symptoms consistent with the Ebola virus, and might prohibit returning health workers from taking public transit or attending large gatherings for three weeks after their arrival.
弗吉尼亚州长特里·麦考利夫(Terry McAuliffe)周一表示，将开始对那些从几内亚、利比里亚和塞拉利昂抵达美国，并呈现埃博拉病毒症状的人员进行监控，而且还可能禁止回国的卫生工作者在抵达后的三周内乘坐公共交通工具或参加大规模聚会。
Health workers who cared for Ebola patients in West Africa will also be required to sign agreements that restrict their activities, the state said. Those health workers who had “known breaches of protective protocol” will be required to stay at home for 21 days — with the possibility of mandatory quarantine, Mr. McAuliffe said in a statement.
该州表示，在西非护理过埃博拉患者的医护人员，也将被要求签署限制其活动的协议。麦考利夫在一份声明中称，那些“已知曾违反防护规程”的医护人员，将被要求在家里待21天，并可能被强制隔离。
Health care workers who treated Ebola patients in West Africa will be “evaluated on a case-by-case basis and may be restricted from public transportation, mass gatherings, and clinical care,” the statement said. All travelers arriving in Virginia from the three West African nations will be asked to take and record their temperature at least twice each day, with local health officials contacting them daily for three weeks to check on their condition.
该声明称，在西非治疗过埃博拉患者的医务工作者将“逐个接受评估，并可能被限制乘坐公共交通工具、参加大型聚会、参与临床护理”。从前述三个西非国家抵达弗吉尼亚州的人员，将被要求每天至少测量并记录两次体温，并且当地的卫生官员将在三周的时间里每天与其联系，检查他们的情况。
Even if a traveler has tested negative for the virus, but develops symptoms that suggest Ebola has been contracted, Mr. McAuliffe said the traveler might be asked to remain at home for 21 days under the close supervision of state health officials.
麦考利夫称，如果有旅客出现的症状显示感染了埃博拉病毒，即使该人的病毒检测呈阴性，也可能会被要求在家里待21天，接受州卫生官员的密切监督。
In announcing the new policy for returning health care workers, federal officials are seeking to strike a delicate balance between getting the medical details right and making sure the public is comfortable with the approach the government is taking. This is important because, should the virus begin to spread, health workers will need the public to trust them enough to reveal information.
联邦官员公布针对归国医务人员的新政策，意在取得一个微妙的平衡：一方面需要搞清楚医疗细节，另一方面又需要让公众能接受政府采取的措施。这一点颇为重要，因为一旦埃博拉病毒开始传播，卫生工作者需要赢得公众足够的信任，公众才会透露信息。
“If something is going to scare someone, an Ebola guy on the subway is a pretty good way,” said Howard Markel, a professor of the history of medicine at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. “You have to be concerned with the public ramification of your actions.”
“如果说有什么东西会吓到人，地铁上出现埃博拉患者可是个很好的办法，”密歇根大学安娜堡分校(University of Michigan, Ann Arbor)医学史教授霍华德·马克尔(Howard Markel)说。“你必须关心自己的行动对公众造成的后果。”
The differences between the federal government and the governors have already erupted into a political test of wills just days before the midterm elections. Administration officials over the weekend harshly criticized the quarantine plans in New York and New Jersey, saying they went too far and could have the unintended consequence of discouraging health care workers from going to West Africa.
在距离中期选举仅剩几天之际，联邦政府和各州州长之间的分歧，已经爆发成了一场政治上的意志考验。周末，联邦政府官员严厉批评纽约州和新泽西州的隔离方案，称那些举动过头了，并且可能造成意想不到的后果，打消医务工作者去西非的念头。