ANNAWAN, Ill. — The outside world is not allowed in a sanitized and isolated pig farm here, not far from the Iowa border.
伊利诺伊州安纳万——这里离伊利诺伊与艾奥瓦的州界不远，一座经过消毒的偏远养猪场将尘世挡在门外。
Visitors must shower before entering, scrubbing from head to toe, trading their street clothes for disinfected coveralls that have never left the premises. Everything inside the temperature-controlled barn housing 3,000 sows has been blasted with antiseptic.
来此地拜访的人进门前必须沐浴，从头到脚洗刷干净，褪下日常服饰，换上从未离开场区的消毒连体工作服。在这座容纳了3000头母猪的温控养殖场，每个物件都经受了消毒液的反复冲刷。
“We do a better job than some hospitals,” said Dr. Matt Ackerman, a veterinarian who works with the farm.
养殖场兽医马特·阿克曼博士 (Matt Ackerman)说，“我们比一些医院还要严格。”
Strict protocols have kept the operation, one of 10 swine facilities run by Great Plains Management, safe from a virus spreading across the country this summer, killing piglets by the thousands and distressing hog producers in 16 states.
这家养殖场是大平原管理公司(Great Plains Management)负责管理的10家养猪场之一，严格遵照程序让其免受今夏席卷美国的一种病毒的侵扰。 该病毒导致成千上万的猪仔死亡，让16个州的养猪户蒙受损失。
But those same precautions have not worked everywhere. A Central Indiana farm that Dr. Ackerman also works with was among the first to lose piglets to the virus in May. “If it gets in, you can’t stop it,” Dr. Ackerman said. “We filled wheelbarrows with dead pigs.”
但是，同样的预防措施并没有在每个地方奏效。阿克曼博士还同印第安纳州中部的一家农场进行合作，那里在今年5月出现了第一批染病身亡的猪仔。“一旦病毒进来，就无法阻止了，”他说。“一个个独轮车里装满了死猪。”
The porcine epidemic diarrhea virus, which is deadly only to young pigs and poses no food safety risks or danger to humans, appeared in the United States for the first time last spring in Ohio and within weeks had spread to four other states.
今年春天，猪流行性腹泻病毒首次在美国出现，起初在俄亥俄州，几周之内就扩散到其他四个州。这种病毒只对猪仔构成生命威胁，对食品安全和人体健康均无害。
The outbreak led to a flurry of lab testing and a survey of the industry to determine how the virus had entered the country, comparing supplies and feeds in an effort to find a smoking gun. Farmers are cross-referencing vaccine and semen distributors, even the brands of plastic pipettes they use to inseminate sows, desperate to contain a threat that has made the industry feel increasingly vulnerable.
病毒爆发引发了一系列的实验室测试和一项行业调查，以便确定该病毒如何侵入美国，而研究方法是通过比较供给和饲料来尝试寻找罪魁祸首。农场主们在交叉对照疫苗和精液分销商，就连他们用来给母猪授精的塑料移液管的品牌也没放过，拼命想控制住这一让养猪业日益脆弱的威胁。
“It’s anybody’s guess at this point,” said Lisa Becton, director of swine health information and research at the National Pork Board, which is spending $800,000 for research into the virus.
美国猪肉委员会(National Pork Board)的猪健康信息与研究部门主管莉萨·贝克顿(Lisa Becton)说，“目前所有人都还在猜测。”该委员会正在斥资80万美元（约合490万元人民币）研究这一病毒。
First surfacing in Britain more than 40 years ago, the virus has spread throughout Europe and Asia. It has caused problems most recently among pork producers in China, where a 2012 strand of the disease was 99.4 percent similar to cases now found in the United States, according to researchers.
该病毒于40多年前首先出现在英国，后来传播到整个欧洲和亚洲。最近一次的爆发是在2012年，让中国的猪肉生产商蒙受了损失。研究者表示，那次的病毒与美国目前发现的病例的相似度有99.4%。
Researchers in the United States are working on a vaccine for the virus, which is passed through fecal matter and resembles transmissible gastroenteritis, another pig-to-pig illness that American farms have at times encountered. Symptoms include severe diarrhea and vomiting, and mortality rates can reach 100 percent for pigs less than a week old. Older swine will be sick for days but most likely recover.
美国研究人员正在开发针对这一病毒的疫苗。该病毒通过排泄物传播，与猪传染性胃肠炎类似，后者也是美国养殖场有时会遇到的猪间传播疾病。它的症状包括严重腹泻和呕吐，在不到一周大的猪仔中的死亡率可达100%。大一些的猪会病几天，不过康复的可能性极高。
Retroactive testing by a national laboratory pegged the earliest confirmed case of the virus in the United States around April 15 at a farm in Ohio. Within a month, other cases had surfaced in Indiana, Iowa, Colorado and Minnesota.
一家国家实验室的回溯研究确定，美国最早的确诊病例发生在俄亥俄州的一家农场，时间是4月15日左右。一个月内，印第安纳州、艾奥瓦州、科罗拉多州和明尼苏达州都陆续出现了新病例。
By the end of July, 403 separate cases had been reported to the National Animal Health Laboratory Network of the Department of Agriculture, with most outbreaks occurring in Iowa (149) and Oklahoma (94). About 30 new cases are reported each week.
到了7月底，美国农业部旗下的国家动物健康实验室网络(National Animal Health Laboratory Network)通报了403宗独立病例，多数发生在艾奥瓦州（149例）和俄克拉何马州（94例）。每周新增案例约为30宗。
“There’s not many times that a new virus hits an industry that has no immunity,” said Robert Morrison, a professor of veterinary medicine at the University of Minnesota who has been studying the virus. “Every pig in the United States is susceptible. It’s like throwing a spark on a bunch of kindling.”
明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)的兽医学教授罗伯特·莫里森(Robert Morrison)一直在研究该病毒。他表示，“新病毒袭击毫无免疫的行业，这种情况不是很多见。美国的每头猪都容易遭受感染。这就像是往一堆柴火上扔火星。”
No one quite knows how many pigs have died so far, in part because the virus is not considered a foreign animal disease by the Agriculture Department and farms are not required to report it to the authorities.
无人确切地知道截止到目前的死猪数量，部分原因在于，该病毒不是农业部认定的外来动物疾病，于是养猪场无需向当局汇报。
Few experts are willing to speculate, saying only that industry losses amount to several hundred thousand piglets nationwide.
鲜有专家愿意作出推断，他们只说，养猪业在全国范围内损失了数十万头猪仔。
Though it is perhaps too soon to predict how the virus may affect the price of pork products, the epidemic has already caused economic hardships for individual farmers, particularly amid soaring feed prices caused by last year’s drought.
尽管现在预测病毒对猪肉制品价格的影响或许为时过早，但疫情已经造成了个体农场主的经济困难，特别是在去年的旱灾导致饲料价格飙升的这个当口。
An average farm with 2,500 sows could lose nearly every newborn for four weeks if it is hit with the virus, killing roughly 5,000 piglets and causing financial losses close to $200,000. Adult pigs that recuperate typically build immunity to the virus, making recurring outbreaks rare.
一家有2500头母猪的普通养猪场，如果受到病毒侵扰，可以在四周内损失全部新生猪仔，造成约5000只猪仔死亡，带来近20万美元的经济损失。恢复健康的成年猪通常会对病毒产生免疫力，因此鲜有复发。
“One month can do a lot of damage,” said Mark Greenwood, senior vice president for AgStar Financial Services, which provides financing to hog farms. “It’s really devastating if you’re finally turning the corner.”
“一个月可以造成很大的伤害，”致力于养猪场融资的AgStar金融服务公司(AgStar Financial Services)的高级副总裁马克·格林伍德(Mark Greenwood)说。“即使最终能转危为安，这也是灾难性的。”
The fear has inspired a renewed vigilance across the hog industry to ensure that workers are using basic practices like disinfecting their boots and trailers after visiting packing plants, which researchers have identified as high-risk locations for picking up the virus.
恐惧已经激发了养猪业的新一轮的警戒举措，来确保工人们遵循基本惯例，例如在去过屠宰加工厂之后为他们的靴子和拖车消毒，因为这些地方被研究人员确认为病毒传播的高危地点。
Yet questions remain about how the virus got to the United States in the first place, raising anxiety among producers and farmers.
然而，病毒最初如何到达美国仍然是个迷，这给肉类生产商和农场主带来了焦虑。
“The world got a lot smaller that day,” Tom Burkgren, executive director of the American Association of Swine Veterinarians, said of when the first domestic case was confirmed. “If P.E.D.V. can get into the United States, what about some of the even more nasty viruses?”
谈到美国确诊首个病例的时间，美国猪科兽医协会(American Association of Swine Veterinarians)执行主管汤姆·伯克格伦(Tom Burkgren)说，“在那一天，世界变得小了许多。如果猪流行性腹泻病毒能够进入美国，那些更具威胁性的病毒会不会来呢？”
Preliminary results from a targeted survey led by the association, which some had hoped would identify a link among infected farms, suggested that more data was needed. Dr. Burkgren said investigators would take a closer look at feed-related risk factors.
一些人希望，该机构主导的针对性调查能够确定受到感染的养猪场之间的联系，但调查的初步结果表明，需要更多的数据。伯克格伦博士表示，调查人员将更加仔细地研究与饲料相关的风险因素。
Jan Hueber, co-owner of Great Plains Management, the swine consultants, said he would take nothing for granted.
扬·许贝尔(Jan Hueber)是养猪咨询企业大平原管理公司的共同拥有人，他表示自己不会想当然地做出任何结论。
After an Indiana farm he works with lost at least three weeks of piglets from the virus, Mr. Hueber’s truck drivers now wear plastic disposable boots every time they visit a hog facility.
与他合作的一家印第安纳州农场因为病毒而损失了至少三周内出生的所有猪仔之后，许贝尔的卡车司机如今在他们每次造访养猪场时都穿着一次性塑料靴子。
“Do we sleep comfortable at night?” he asked. “Not when you have something looming out there that can be so financially devastating.”
“我们在晚上睡得踏实吗？”他问道。“当你遇到这类能造成重大经济损失的事情时，就别想睡好了。”
“We assume everything is infected,” he added.
“我们假设一切都被感染了，”他补充说。