WASHINGTON — Debate over the federal government shutdown has tended to focus on those it hurts: veterans, tourists barred from the Lincoln Memorial and Yellowstone National Park, and giant-panda enthusiasts deprived of their publicly funded panda cam.
华盛顿——联邦政府停摆引发的争论倾向于集中在那些受此影响的人身上：退伍军人、被林肯纪念堂和黄石国家公园拒之门外的游客，以及那些无法观看由公共资金赞助的大熊猫视频的铁杆粉丝。
But the shutdown has already produced at least one winner: China.
但是，停摆已经产生了至少一个赢家：中国。
By forcing President Obama to cancel a visit next week to Malaysia and the Philippines, the impasse with House Republicans is spoiling Mr. Obama’s show of support for two Southeast Asian countries that have long labored under the shadow of China. And it is undermining his broader effort to put Asia at the heart of American foreign policy.
和众议院共和党人之间的僵局迫使奥巴马总统取消了下周去马来西亚和菲律宾的访问，由此破坏了他对两个长期在中国阴影下挣扎的东南亚国家表示支持的努力。同时，该僵局也正在削弱奥巴马将亚洲置于美国外交政策核心的整体努力。
Mr. Obama’s planned itinerary for next week — a mix of summit meetings and good-will visits — was carefully molded to reinforce the message to China that the United States is once again a central player in the region. But the president’s Asian pivot keeps getting pulled back by two forces that have haunted his presidency: strife in the Middle East and strife with Capitol Hill.
奥巴马原计划的下周行程——其中包括峰会以及友好访问——是谨慎制定的，目的是向中国强调，美国再一次成为了该地区的核心参与者。然而，奥巴马的转向亚洲政策持续受到与其总统任期相始终的两个因素的阻挠：中东冲突以及与国会的分歧。
For now, the White House is clinging to the two remaining stops on Mr. Obama’s tour: a Pacific Rim economic summit meeting in Indonesia, at which he hopes to meet with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, and the East Asia Summit, in the sultanate of Brunei, where he is scheduled to meet the new prime minister of China, Li Keqiang.
目前来看（本文英文版发表于10月3日——编注），白宫仍不愿放弃奥巴马行程上剩下的两站：一个是在印度尼西亚举行的泛太平洋经济峰会，届时他希望能会晤俄国总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，另一个是在文莱的东亚峰会，按计划他将和中国新任总理李克强会面。
With little sign of a compromise that would reopen the government by this weekend, however, Mr. Obama may be forced to scrap those visits, too, sending Secretary of State John Kerry as his understudy. It would be the third time he has been forced to sacrifice an Asia trip because of domestic issues — he postponed a visit in March 2010 because of the battle over the health care overhaul, and delayed it again four months later because of the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
然而，目前没什么迹象表明双方即将达成妥协，在本周末之前结束政府停摆，有鉴于此，奥巴马可能也将被迫取消这些行程，让国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)去当替身。果真如此的话，那将是他第三次由于国内事务而被迫牺牲亚洲之行——2010年3月，奥巴马因医疗保险改革之争推迟了一次出访，四个月后，又因墨西哥湾石油泄露的问题再次推迟。
“Diplomatically, it’s very harmful,” said Kenneth G. Lieberthal, a top China adviser during the Clinton administration. “I’m sure there are some in China who say, insofar as the U.S. pivot has China as its bull’s-eye, this prevents them from hitting that bull’s-eye.”
“从外交上看，这将带来很大危害，”克林顿(Clinton)任期内的高级中国顾问李侃如(Kenneth G. Lieberthal)说。“我相信，中国的一些人会这么说，要说美国的转向亚洲政策将中国视为靶心的话，这样的情形将阻止其击中靶心。”
Jeffrey A. Bader, who was Mr. Obama’s senior adviser on China until 2011, said the White House’s attempt to salvage the two meetings, even amid the chaos of the shutdown, was an important sign that it remained committed to the region. But he added, “The mayhem that compelled the decision sends an unfortunate signal to those countries that the U.S. is far away, and that the U.S. political system is dysfunctional.”
担任奥巴马高级中国顾问直至2011年的杰弗里·A·贝德(Jeffrey A. Bader)称，在面临政府停摆乱局的情况下，白宫仍试图拯救两个会议，这传达了很重要的讯息，表明美国政府仍致力于参与亚太地区事务。但贝德补充道，“不幸的是，迫使政府做出决定的这一乱局也向那些国家传达了信号，即美国是个远在天边的国家，政治制度也运转不灵。”
While Mr. Obama’s plans are in flux, President Xi Jinping of China has embarked on a tour of Southeast Asia that will take him to Indonesia and Malaysia.
奥巴马的计划不停变化之时，中国国家主席习近平却已展开东南亚之行，其间他将到访印度尼西亚和马来西亚。
China, with its expansionist impulses, is a clear beneficiary of a distracted United States. It has clashed with Malaysia and the Philippines over claims to rocky outposts in the South China Sea, which the three countries border. On previous visits, Mr. Obama said the United States wanted to resolve these disputes peacefully and keep sea lanes open.
显而易见，有着扩张野心的中国成为了美国无法专注于亚洲事务的受益者。中国曾和马来西亚及菲律宾因位于南海的一些边远岩礁发生冲突，那些岩礁是这三个国家的边界。在之前的访问中，奥巴马曾表示美国希望和平解决这些争议，保持海上航线开放。
The president has invested in the Philippines and Malaysia for different reasons.
出于不同的理由，奥巴马努力加强同菲律宾和马拉西亚两国的外交关系。
The Philippines is a treaty ally of the United States, and the administration has tried to shore up its Asian alliances, in part as a counterweight to the muscular role of China.
菲律宾是美国的条约盟友，而美国政府一直在努力支持其亚洲盟友，部分是为了平衡中国的强大影响力。
Malaysia went through a strained period with the United States in the 1990s under a xenophobic leader, Mahathir Mohamad. But relations have thawed under a new leader, Najib Razak, and Malaysia is a member of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a nascent regional trade bloc that is the economic pillar of Mr. Obama’s Asia strategy.
20世纪90年代，在排外领导人马哈蒂尔·穆罕默德(Mahathir Mohamad)的领导下，马来西亚经历了一段与美国关系紧张的时期。但在纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)执政时期，两国关系出现缓和。马来西亚是跨太平洋伙伴关系协议（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）的成员。这个新成立的区域贸易集团是奥巴马亚洲策略的经济支柱。
The administration wants to wrap up negotiations on a trade deal by the end of this year, a goal few analysts believe it can achieve. That may be even more elusive if Mr. Obama cannot personally offer his public backing at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, on the Indonesian island of Bali.
美国政府希望在今年年底前完成有关贸易协议的谈判，很少有分析人士认为美国能完成这个目标。如果奥巴马无法亲身前往印度尼西亚巴厘岛参加亚太经合组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation)公开表示支持，上述目标可能更难达成。
Critics have long charged that the “pivot” is more talk than reality — a fledgling trade deal and the deployment of 2,500 Marines to the Australian outback, rather than a genuine shift of resources. Administration officials say that contention is unfair, noting that in addition to the trade talks and alliance building, Mr. Obama spent hours one on one with Mr. Xi in Southern California in June.
长期以来，批评人士一直指责“转向”政策不过是纸上谈兵，仅仅包括一个羽翼未丰的贸易协议，以及派遣2500名海军陆战队士兵驻扎在澳大利亚内陆的举措，并不是资源配置的真正转变。政府官员表示这种指责有失公允，并且指出，除了贸易谈判和联盟构建之外，奥巴马还于今年6月在南加州与习近平单独相处了几个小时。
Still, the turmoil in Syria has reinforced the reality that the Middle East is likely to remain a preoccupation for Mr. Obama. In his speech at the United Nations last week, he mentioned Asia in a single line, noting that it could serve as an economic example.
然而，叙利亚的动荡突显了一个事实，即对于奥巴马来说，中东很可能仍然是当务之急。上周在联合国发表演讲时，奥巴马只有一句话提到了亚洲，称其可以起到经济方面的模范作用。
While the president may be no less committed to the region, there is a reduction of Asia expertise on his senior team. Mr. Kerry has made the Middle East, and particularly peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians, his top priority, in contrast to his predecessor, Hillary Rodham Clinton, whose first trip in the post was to Asia, and who led the drive to open diplomatic ties to Myanmar.
虽然奥巴马总统对亚洲事务的投入可能一如既往，但其高层团队中的亚洲专家有所减少。克里将中东问题尤其是巴以和谈视为当务之急，与其前任希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)形成了对比，克林顿上任后首先出访亚洲，并推动美国与缅甸建立外交关系。
Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, has by necessity focused less on Asia than her predecessor, Tom Donilon, while Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has far less experience in the region than his predecessor, Timothy F. Geithner. Administration officials counter that Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker and the United States trade representative, Michael B. Froman, are both heavily involved in Asia.
国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)对亚洲的关注度必然小于其前任汤姆·多尼隆(Tom Donilon)，而财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)的亚洲经验也少于其前任蒂莫西·F·盖特纳(Timothy F. Geithner)。政府官员反驳称，商务部长彭妮·普利茨克(Penny Pritzker)与美国贸易代表迈克·B·弗罗曼(Michael B. Froman)都在深度参与亚洲事务。
But among top officials, only Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, whose history in Asia dates to his combat service in Vietnam, seems eager to put the rebalancing at the top of his agenda. Mr. Hagel, a former Republican senator, has been harshly critical of his fellow Republicans in the budget fight, telling reporters traveling with him to Japan and South Korea this week that “if this continues, we will have a country that is ungovernable.”
然而，高层官员中似乎只有国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)急于将再平衡政策列为首要议题。哈格尔与亚洲的渊源可以追溯至他在越南服役作战的时候。在此次预算案之争当中，前共和党参议员哈格尔一直严厉批评其共和党同僚，并在本周告诉那些与他一同前往日本和韩国的记者，“再这样下去，我们将看到一个无法治理的国家。”
An ungovernable America is not something that the Chinese want either, given the economic interdependence of the two countries. But in the diplomatic struggle for influence in the region, a dysfunctional Washington plays to the short-term advantage of Beijing, especially with China having weathered its own domestic political upheavals.
鉴于中美两国在经济上相互依赖，中国也不希望美国变得无法治理。但在争夺亚洲影响力的外交斗争中，美国政府运转不良可以让中国获得短期优势，特别是在中国已经顺利平息国内政治风波的情况下。
“And,” added a senior administration official with bitter humor, “they still have a panda cam.”
“而且，”一名政府高级官员苦涩地调侃道，“他们还有熊猫视频。”