In recent decisions, the conservative majority on the Supreme Court has made clear its view that corporations are people, with all the attendant rights. They are entitled to free speech, which in their case means spending lots of money to bend the political process to their ends. They are entitled to religious beliefs, including those that mean denying benefits to their workers. Up next, the right to bear arms?
在最近的裁决中，最高法院(Supreme Court)中的保守多数派明确表示，他们认为企业是人，因而也就拥有所有人的权利。他们享有言论自由，具体来说就是可以花很多的钱，让政治进程偏向自己这一边。他们有宗教信仰的自由，包括那些让他们的员工不能享受福利的信仰。然后呢，持枪的权利？
There is, however, one big difference between corporate persons and the likes of you and me: On current trends, we’re heading toward a world in which only the human people pay taxes.
不过，企业人和你我这种人还是有一个重大区别的：照着现在的趋势，我们正在迈步走向有血有肉的人才需要缴税的世界。
We’re not quite there yet: The federal government still gets a tenth of its revenue from corporate profits taxation. But it used to get a lot more — a third of revenue came from profits taxes in the early 1950s, a quarter or more well into the 1960s. Part of the decline since then reflects a fall in the tax rate, but mainly it reflects ever-more-aggressive corporate tax avoidance — avoidance that politicians have done little to prevent.
目前还没实现：联邦政府的岁入仍有十分之一来自企业利得税收。但这个比例曾经远不止这一点——上世纪50年代初有三分之一的岁入来自利得税，到了60年代还有四分之一甚至更多。自那以后这个比例开始下降，税率降低是一部分原因，但主要还是反映了企业避税行为的盛况空前，而政客们也没怎么去阻止这种避税。
Which brings us to the tax-avoidance strategy du jour: “inversion.” This refers to a legal maneuver in which a company declares that its U.S. operations are owned by its foreign subsidiary, not the other way around, and uses this role reversal to shift reported profits out of American jurisdiction to someplace with a lower tax rate.
因此我们要说说避税策略中的明星：“反转”(inversion)。这是一种法律策略，一家公司宣布它在美国的运营是归某个外国子公司所有，而不是反过来，通过这种角色的反转，公司可以把申报收益从美国课税辖区转移到某个税率更低的地方。
The most important thing to understand about inversion is that it does not in any meaningful sense involve American business “moving overseas.” Consider the case of Walgreen, the giant drugstore chain that, according to multiple reports, is on the verge of making itself legally Swiss. If the plan goes through, nothing about the business will change; your local pharmacy won’t close and reopen in Zurich. It will be a purely paper transaction — but it will deprive the U.S. government of several billion dollars in revenue that you, the taxpayer, will have to make up one way or another.
关于反转，最重要的是得明白，美国企业在这个过程中并非在任何实质意义上“移居海外”。比如据多方报道，药店连锁巨头沃尔格林(Walgreen)即将在法律上把自己变成一家瑞士公司。如果一切按计划进行，生意上不会有任何改变；你的街坊药店不会关门，转而开到苏黎世去。这将是纯粹的纸上交易——但它将夺走美国政府数十亿美元的税收，而你，纳税人，只能通过各种途径去补这个缺口。
Does this mean President Obama is wrong to describe companies engaging in inversion as “corporate deserters”? Not really — they’re shirking their civic duty, and it doesn’t matter whether they literally move abroad or not. But apologists for inversion, who tend to claim that high taxes are driving businesses out of America, are indeed talking nonsense. These businesses aren’t moving production or jobs overseas — and they’re still earning their profits right here in the U.S.A. All they’re doing is dodging taxes on those profits.
那么，奥巴马总统形容使用“反转”手段的公司是“企业逃兵”，说错了吗？其实没错——他们在逃避自己的“公民义务”，这跟有没有实质上转移到国外是不相干的。为反转作辩解的人时常宣称，是高税收把企业赶出了美国，这是在胡诌。这些企业没有把生产或工作岗位转移到海外——他们的利润仍然是在美国赚取的。只不过现在要逃避这些利润带来的税负。
And Congress could crack down on this tax dodge — it’s already illegal for a company to claim that its legal domicile is someplace where it has little real business, and tightening the criteria for declaring a company non-American could block many of the inversions now taking place. So is there any reason not to stop this gratuitous loss of revenue? No.
国会可以打击这种逃税行为——现行法律已经规定，一家公司不能把自己没有开展什么实际业务的地方称为法定住所，此外，公司宣布自己为非美国企业所需要满足的条件也可以更多，这些可以封阻许多目前正在进行的反转项目。那么，有什么理由不去阻止这种无端的财政收入损失呢？没有。
Opponents of a crackdown on inversion typically argue that instead of closing loopholes we should reform the whole system by which we tax profits, and maybe stop taxing profits altogether. They also tend to argue that taxing corporate profits hurts investment and job creation. But these are very bad arguments against ending the practice of inversion.
反对打击反转的人通常会说，与其去封堵漏洞，不如改革整个利得课税的制度，也许该彻底停止对利得征税。他们还常说，对企业利得征税会伤害投资和就业。但涉及反转做法的终结，这些都是很蹩脚的观点。
First of all, there are some good reasons to tax profits. In general, U.S. taxes favor unearned income from capital over earned income from wages; the corporate tax helps redress this imbalance. We could, in principle, maintain taxes on unearned income if we offset cuts in corporate taxes with substantially higher tax rates on income from capital gains and dividends — but this would be an imperfect fix, and in any case, given the state of our politics, this just isn’t going to happen.
首先，对利得征税的好处很多。总的来说，相比来自工资的劳动所得，美国税收对资本的非劳动所得要更关照一些；企业税是对这种不平衡的补偿。原则上，如果我们充分提高资本收益和股息所得的税率，去补偿企业税的削减，那么就可以维持对非劳动所得的征税——但这个安排是不完美的，而且以我们当前的政治状况，也是不可能实现的。
Furthermore, ending profits taxation would greatly increase the power of corporate executives. Is this really something we want to do?
此外，停止对利得征税还会大幅增加企业管理层的权力。这真是我们想看到的结果？
As for reforming the system: Yes, that would be a good idea. But the case for eventual reform basically has nothing to do with the case for closing the inversion loophole right now. After all, there are big debates about the shape of reform, debates that would take years to resolve even if we didn’t have a Republican Party that reliably opposes anything the president proposes, even if it was something Republicans were for just a few years ago. Why let corporations avoid paying their fair share for years, while we wait for the logjam to break?
至于改革制度：是的，是个好想法。但最终的改革跟在当下封堵“反转”这个漏洞是互不影响的。毕竟关于改革布局的宏大辩论一直在进行，即便共和党不像现在这样风雨无阻雷打不动地反对总统的一切提议，即便共和党就在几年之前还赞成这个想法，那也要再吵上几年才能有个决断。为什么要让企业在这些年里继续逃避他们应尽的义务，而我们要坐等僵局出现转机呢？
Finally, none of this has anything to do with investment and job creation. If and when Walgreen changes its “citizenship,” it will get to keep more of its profits — but it will have no incentive to invest those extra profits in its U.S. operations.
最后，这些都跟投资和创造就业毫无关系，如果有朝一日沃尔格林改变了“国籍”，它将得以保留更多的利润——但把多出来的利润投资到美国的运营中，对它来说并没有特别的好处。