It seems safe to say that “Capital in the Twenty-First Century,” the magnum opus of the French economist Thomas Piketty, will be the most important economics book of the year — and maybe of the decade. Mr. Piketty, arguably the world’s leading expert on income and wealth inequality, does more than document the growing concentration of income in the hands of a small economic elite. He also makes a powerful case that we’re on the way back to “patrimonial capitalism,” in which the commanding heights of the economy are dominated not just by wealth, but also by inherited wealth, in which birth matters more than effort and talent.
看来，我们可以有把握地说，法国经济学家托马·皮克提(Thomas Piketty)的代表作《二十一世纪资本论》(Capital in the Twenty-First Century)将成为本年度最重要的经济学著作，甚或将是这个10年最重要的一本。皮克提可以说是世界上研究收入和财富分配不公领域数一数二的专家，他不单单是记录了如何有越来越多的收入汇聚到一小群经济精英的手中。他还有力地证明，我们正在倒退回“承袭制资本主义”的年代。在这样的制度下，经济的制高点不仅由财富决定，还由承袭的财富决定，因而出身的重要性要高过后天的努力和才能。
To be sure, Mr. Piketty concedes that we aren’t there yet. So far, the rise of America’s 1 percent has mainly been driven by executive salaries and bonuses rather than income from investments, let alone inherited wealth. But six of the 10 wealthiest Americans are already heirs rather than self-made entrepreneurs, and the children of today’s economic elite start from a position of immense privilege. As Mr. Piketty notes, “the risk of a drift toward oligarchy is real and gives little reason for optimism.”
要明确的是，皮克提承认我们还没有真的回到那个年代。迄今为止，美国1%人口经济地位的提升主要得益于高管薪酬和奖金，而不是投资收入，更不是财富继承。但是，美国富人榜前十名中有六位是财富继承人，而不是白手起家的创业者。并且如今那些经济精英的子女一开始就拥有无可比拟的巨大优势。正如皮克提指出的，“逐步走向寡头统治的危险是真实存在的，这让我们很难乐观得起来。”
Indeed. And if you want to feel even less optimistic, consider what many U.S. politicians are up to. America’s nascent oligarchy may not yet be fully formed — but one of our two main political parties already seems committed to defending the oligarchy’s interests.
没错。并且如果你想要再多几分悲观，就想想美国众多政客们在做些什么吧。或许美国寡头统治的萌芽还没有完全成形——但是我们两个主要政党中的一个，看来已经是在一心捍卫寡头统治集团的利益了。
Despite the frantic efforts of some Republicans to pretend otherwise, most people realize that today’s G.O.P. favors the interests of the rich over those of ordinary families. I suspect, however, that fewer people realize the extent to which the party favors returns on wealth over wages and salaries. And the dominance of income from capital, which can be inherited, over wages — the dominance of wealth over work — is what patrimonial capitalism is all about.
多数人已经意识到，如今的大共和党更关心富人的利益，而不是普通家庭的利益，虽然一些共和党人拼命做出与之相反的虚伪姿态。但我怀疑，认识到共和党有多么偏爱资本回报，又是对工资收入多么不屑的人却比较少。可被继承的资本收入支配着工资收入，财富支配着工作，这便是承袭制资本主义的实质所在。
To see what I’m talking about, start with actual policies and policy proposals. It’s generally understood that George W. Bush did all he could to cut taxes on the very affluent, that the middle-class cuts he included were essentially political loss leaders. It’s less well understood that the biggest breaks went not to people paid high salaries but to coupon-clippers and heirs to large estates. True, the top tax bracket on earned income fell from 39.6 to 35 percent. But the top rate on dividends fell from 39.6 percent (because they were taxed as ordinary income) to 15 percent — and the estate tax was completely eliminated.
要明白我在说些什么，就要从实际政策和政策建议出发。人们普遍认识到，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)竭尽所能地为最富人群减了税，并且他将中产阶级纳入减税范畴，实质上是政治上赚吆喝的赔本买卖。但却没有那么多人明白，享受到最大的减税优惠的并非那些高薪人士，而是那些剪息票的投资者和有大笔遗产的继承人。没错，最高一档的劳动所得税税率从39.6%降低到了35%。但是由于股息被作为普通收入征税，其最高税率却从39.6降到了15%——而遗产税却被完全取消了。
Some of these cuts were reversed under President Obama, but the point is that the great tax-cut push of the Bush years was mainly about reducing taxes on unearned income. And when Republicans retook one house of Congress, they promptly came up with a plan — Representative Paul Ryan’s “road map” — calling for the elimination of taxes on interest, dividends, capital gains and estates. Under this plan, someone living solely off inherited wealth would have owed no federal taxes at all.
这其中的一些减税优惠在奥巴马总统上台后完全取消了，但重点是，布什时代大力推出的减税措施主要是减了非劳动所得的税赋。而当共和党重夺国会的一个议院后，他们立即推出了一项计划——众议员保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)的“路线图”——呼吁取消利息税、股息税、资本利得税和遗产税。根据这项计划，一些完全依靠继承财富生活的人将无需支付任何联邦税。
This tilt of policy toward the interests of wealth has been mirrored by a tilt in rhetoric; Republicans often seem so intent on exalting “job creators” that they forget to mention American workers. In 2012 Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, famously commemorated Labor Day with a Twitter post honoring business owners. More recently, Mr. Cantor reportedly reminded colleagues at a G.O.P. retreat that most Americans work for other people, which is at least one reason attempts to make a big issue out of Mr. Obama’s supposed denigration of businesspeople fell flat. (Another reason was that Mr. Obama did no such thing.)
与这种向富裕阶层倾斜的政策相对应的，是一种说辞上的倾斜；共和党人似乎常常一心要赞美“就业创造者”，却忘了提到美国就业者。2012年，众议院多数党领袖埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)为了纪念劳动节在Twitter上发了著名的一条，歌颂企业主。最近，坎托据说在大共和党的一次会议上提醒自己的同僚：多数美国人为他人工作，这至少可以从一定程度上解释，为什么奥巴马对商界人士的所谓诋毁完全站不住脚。（另一个原因是，奥巴马根本没这么做过。）