I wrote last week about rising life expectancy: Children born today will most likely live on average to their late 80s, well above the current average life expectancy of 79. You probably think of this as good news, and from most perspectives, it is.
我上周写过预期寿命越来越高：今天出生的小孩很有可能平均能活到快90岁，远超现在的平均预期寿命，也就是79岁。你可能认为这是项好消息，从大多数观点来看，的确是好消息。
But every rose has its thorn, and longer lives happen to create some problems for Social Security. As people live longer, they spend a larger fraction of their lives in retirement, collecting benefits.
但事情必有两面，更长的寿命也代表着社会安全福利(Social Security)会出问题。人们活得越久，他们退休后享受社会福利的年限，在一生中所占的比例也会越长。
As large government programs go, Social Security retirement benefits are extremely simple: The program takes money from working people and gives it to retired people. This simplicity is great in that it makes it easy to see the magnitude of the program’s solvency problem: large, but manageable through modest adjustments that can take place over decades. Simplicity is a disadvantage because it means the problem can’t be addressed through innovation; the military or the Justice Department might find ways to do more with less, but sending out a $1,000 benefit check will always cost at least $1,000.
就像大政府机制的运作方式那样，社会安全福利的退休福利很简单：这个计划从工作的人那里拿钱、再把钱发给退休的人。简单的好处在于，很快就能看出这个机制的偿付能力会有严重问题：问题很大，但透过一些可能需几十年的调整，还能处理。简单也是坏处，因为这就表示这个制度无法透过创新来调整；军方或司法部或许能想方设法用更少的钱，做更多的事，但若开出一张1000美元的福利支票，一定就会花掉至少1000美元。
For Social Security to be fixed, the program must take more money in, send less money out or both. So when overhaul options for Social Security get floated that aren’t tax increases, you can usually assume they are fancy ways of saying “send less money out.”
为了使社会安全福利持续运转，这个机制就需要开源或节流，又或者二者同时进行。如果有人提出了调整社会福利的一些选项，但不是增加税收，你大概可以知道，那是在用比较花俏的说法讲“花比较少钱”。
Consider, for example, a higher retirement age. This sounds like an alternative to lower annual benefits, but most Social Security beneficiaries experience it as a straightforward reduction in the annual benefit amount because they retire early. The full retirement age is 66, but people may start getting benefits as early as age 62 if they agree to accept a 25 percent reduction in their annual benefit. Under current law, the full retirement age is scheduled to rise to 67 by 2027, but it will remain possible to retire at 62; doing so will just mean taking a 30 percent hit to the annual benefit.
试想，假设一下，提高退休年龄。听起来像是降低年度福利支出的替代方案，但大多数社会安全福利的受益人，会因为退休得早，而经历年度福利的直接减少。法定的完全退休年龄是66岁，但是如果他们愿意少领25%，许多人可能早在62岁就开始领退休金了。依现行法律，到2027年的时候，法定退休年龄预计将延到67岁，但还是可以在62岁退休；因此这种作法将导致年度福利开支少花30%。
“Changing the full retirement age is just a benefit cut,” said Alicia Munnell, an economist at Boston College who led the most recent Technical Panel on Assumptions and Methods, a body of experts assembled by the federal government’s Social Security Advisory Board.
“改变完全退休年龄只是在削减福利，”波士顿学院的经济学家艾丽西娅‧孟内尔(Alicia Munnell)说。联邦政府的社会安全福利顾问委员会(Social Security Advisory Board)最近召集的“设想与方法技术小组”就是由她领导的。
Ms. Munnell noted it would be possible to make people retire later by raising the minimum retirement age, but it would save very little money because the early retirement adjustments are pretty well designed to offset for life span. That is, forcing people to wait until 67 to collect wouldn’t save taxpayers any more money than the 30 percent cut to the benefit at age 62 does. The real savings come from the benefit cuts, not from the number of years spent in retirement.
孟内尔指出，若提高最低退休年龄，人们可能会晚一点退休，但制度就无法省钱，因为提早退休的制度经过精心设计调整，跟人类寿命刚好抵销。也就是说，强制人们到67岁才能享受退休福利，跟于62岁削减福利相比，并不能替纳税人省到比30%更多的钱。最直接省到钱的是削减福利，而不是缩短退休年数。
Changes to “indexing” are another oblique way to cut benefits. As part of his search for a deficit reduction deal earlier in his presidency, Barack Obama offered to link Social Security benefits to the Chained Consumer Price Index, an alternative measure of inflation that economists generally say is more accurate than traditional inflation measures. It also happens to be lower than traditional inflation measures, meaning if it were used for Social Security, benefits wouldn’t rise as fast. As such, Chained C.P.I. is another version of “send less out.”
改变“指数”是另一个削减福利的隐晦作法，在奥巴马总统任期早期，他想将连锁消费者价格指数（chained CPI，简称连锁CPI）应用在社会安全福利上，许多经济学家说连锁CPI比传统的通膨指数更精确。而且，连锁CPI也刚好比传统的通胀指标更低，即若是将其用来计算社会安全福利，就不会上升得那么快。不过连锁CPI也只是“花更少钱”的另一版本。
The fact that Social Security overhauls can be reduced to simple arithmetic does not mean they all are equivalent. There are very important questions of fairness and efficiency about who will send what and who will receive what.
就算社会安全福利能够简化为简单的数学，也不代表这两者是等同的。关于谁付出什么，谁得到什么，有一些涉及公平和效率的重要问题。
Consider two possible “take more in” approaches. Currently, Social Security is financed by a 12.4 percent tax on wage and salary income up to $118,500. The program could be made permanently solvent by raising this tax by two percentage points, or by keeping the tax rate the same and abolishing the cap. But raising the tax hurts the low earners, and abolishing the $118,500 cap acts like a large tax increase on high earners.
看看两种可能的“开源”方法。现在社会安全福利来自工资的12.4%，最高上限为11.85万美元。若把这项税收的税率提高2个百分点，就能永久性地解决这一机制的偿付问题，或者也可以税率不变，但取消上限。但是提高税率会伤害低收入人群，若取消11.85万美元的上限，对高收入的人来讲，便是大大提高他们纳税负担。
The “send less out” solutions that focus on getting people to retire later hurt poor people in another way because people with higher incomes enjoy higher life expectancies.
“节流”的选项重点是让人们晚点退休，却变相地伤害了穷人，因为高收入的人预期寿命较长。
“You’re essentially punishing low-income people for a problem they didn’t cause,” said Andrew Biggs, a retirement policy expert at the conservative American Enterprise Institute.
“基本上是在惩罚低收入人群，可问题不是他们造成的，”美国企业研究所(American Enterprise Institute)的退休政策专家安德鲁·比格斯(Andrew Biggs)说。
The last time Social Security retirement benefits got a major overhaul, in 1983, it was a bipartisan compromise based on a combination of taking more money in and sending less of it out. It’s a good bet that will be the ultimate resolution in the next round, too.
社会安全福利的退休金政策上一次重大调整是在1983年，是当时两党综合开源节流而达成的妥协。我敢说，下次的重大调整，这还是最终的解决方案。