WASHINGTON — The United States will halt its military withdrawal from Afghanistan and instead keep thousands of troops in the country through the end of his term in 2017, President Obama announced on Thursday, prolonging the American role in a war that has now stretched on for 14 years.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统周四宣布，美国将停止从阿富汗撤军，该国剩下的数千名美军士兵将一直留守到2017年他任期结束时。这一决定延长了美国在一场持续了14年的战争中所扮演的角色。
In a brief statement from the Roosevelt Room in the White House, Mr. Obama said he did not support the idea of “endless war” but was convinced that a prolonged American presence in Afghanistan was vital to that country’s future and to the national security of the United States.
奥巴马在白宫罗斯福厅(Roosevelt Room)发表简短讲话，称他不支持“无止境的战争”这个想法，但相信延长美国在阿富汗的驻军，对该国未来和美国的国家安全都极其重要。
“While America’s combat mission in Afghanistan may be over, our commitment to Afghanistan and its people endures,” said Mr. Obama, flanked by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his top military leaders. “I will not allow Afghanistan to be used as safe haven for terrorists to attack our nation again.”
“尽管美国在阿富汗的作战任务可能已经结束了，但我们对阿富汗和阿富汗民众的承诺保持不变，”奥巴马说。“我不会允许阿富汗被恐怖分子当做再次袭击我国的安全港湾。”奥巴马发表讲话时，身旁站着副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)和军方将领。
The current American force in Afghanistan of 9,800 troops will remain in place through most of 2016 under the administration’s revised plans, before dropping to about 5,500 at the end of next year or in early 2017, Mr. Obama said. He called it a “modest but meaningful expansion of our presence” in that country.
奥巴马表示，当前阿富汗境内还有9800名美军，按照政府修订后的计划，他们将一直驻扎到2016年下半年，然后在2016年底或2017年初，缩减至大约5500人。他称，这次在阿富汗“延长驻军，时间有限但却很有意义”。
The president, who has long sought to end America’s two wars before he leaves office, said he was not disappointed by the decision. He said the administration had always understood the potential for adjustments in troop levels even as the military sought to withdraw troops from battle.
长期以来，奥巴马一直寻求在离任前结束美国参与的两场战争。他表示，自己并没有对这一决定感到失望。他说，即便是在军方争取从战场撤军时，政府也一直明白调整驻军规模的可能性。
But the announcement underscores the difficulty Mr. Obama has had in achieving one of the central promises of his presidency in both Afghanistan and Iraq. Mr. Obama conceded that despite more than a decade of fighting and training, Afghan forces are not fully up to the task of protecting their country.
但声明突显了奥巴马在兑现承诺时面临的困难，那是他在担任总统期间，做出的有关阿富汗和伊拉克的关键承诺之一。奥巴马承认，尽管经历了十多年的战斗和训练，但是阿富汗军队仍无法完全胜任保护国家的任务。
The Taliban are now spread through more parts of the country than at any point since 2001, according to the United Nations, and last month they scored their biggest victory of the war, seizing the northern city of Kunduz and holding it for more than two weeks before pulling back on Tuesday.
据联合国称，现在阿富汗国内塔利班扩张的地区比2001年以来的任何时候都要广。上个月，他们夺取了北部城市昆都士，这是他们在战争中取得的最大胜利。周二，塔利班在占领该城市两个多星期之后撤离。
Mr. Obama noted the dangers, saying, “In key areas of the country, the security situation is still very fragile, and in some areas, there is risk of deterioration.” After 2017, he said, American forces will remain in several bases in the country to “give us the presence and the reach our forces require to achieve their mission.”
奥巴马指出了危险，称“在该国的关键地区，安全局势依然非常脆弱，一些地区有恶化的危险”。他说，2017年以后，美军将保留在那里的几个基地，以便“让我们的军队有完成任务所需的兵力和影响力”。
He did not specifically mention Iraq, where a full troop withdrawal has been followed by a surge in violence from the Islamic State. But he said the mission in Afghanistan had the benefit of a clear objective, a supportive government and legal agreements that protect American forces — three factors not present in Iraq.
奥巴马并未明确提到伊拉克。在那里，美军完全撤离后，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)组织制造的暴力激增。但他表示，阿富汗军事任务的有利因素是目标明确、阿富汗政府支持，且有保护美军的法律协议。而在伊拉克，这三个因素都不存在。
“Every single day, Afghan forces are out there fighting and dying to protect their country. They’re not looking for us to do it for them,” Mr. Obama said. He added, “If they were to fail, it would endanger the security of us all.”
“每一天，阿富汗军队都在为保卫国家浴血奋战。他们没有指望我们帮他们做，”奥巴马说。“如果他们失败了，可能会危及我们所有人的安全。”
Some critics of the administration, who have long urged the president to leave more troops in Afghanistan, said Mr. Obama’s actions did not go far enough to confront Al Qaeda and other threats there.
一些批评奥巴马政府的人，一直敦促奥巴马在阿富汗多留些驻军。他们称，奥巴马的行动不足以抗击那里的基地组织(Al Qaeda)和其他威胁。