WASHINGTON — Defense Department officials said late Wednesday that United States airstrikes and Kurdish fighters had broken the siege on Mount Sinjar, allowing thousands of the Yazidis trapped there to escape.
华盛顿——周三晚些时候，美国国防部(Defense Department)的官员表示，美国的空袭行动和库尔德作战人员已经突破了对辛贾尔山的围困，让被困那里的数以千计的雅兹迪人得以逃脱。
An initial report from about a dozen Marines and Special Operations forces who arrived on Tuesday and spent 24 hours on the northern Iraqi mountain said that “the situation is much more manageable,” a senior Defense official said in an interview.
一名国防部高级官员接受采访时表示，大约十几名海军陆战队(Marines)和特种作战部队(Special Operations)士兵于周二抵达伊拉克北部的山区，并在那里待了24小时，他们最初发回报告称，“控制局势变得容易很多”。
“A rescue effort now is much more unlikely,” the official said.
这名官员说，“目前开展救援行动的可能性低了许多。”
Defense officials could not say how many Yazidis remained on the mountain, but Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel was expected to make a statement later Wednesday night.
国防部官员无法确定还有多少雅兹迪人留在山中，但国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)将于周三夜间发表声明。
The announcement came after American military advisers landed on Mount Sinjar early Wednesday to begin assessing how to organize the evacuation. The United States had said it would consider using American ground troops to assist in the rescue if recommended by the military team.
宣布上述消息之前，美国军事顾问于周三早些时候抵达辛贾尔山，开始评估如何组织人员撤离。美国曾表示，如果军事顾问小组建议派遣地面部队帮助救援，美国会考虑这么做。
Mr. Hagel said it was “far less likely now” that the United States would undertake a rescue mission because the assessment team reported far fewer refugees than previously thought, and that those still on the mountain were in relatively good condition.
哈格尔表示，美国执行救援任务的“可能性现在变得很小”，因为评估小组报告称，难民比之前预计的少得多，那些仍留在山中的难民状况相对较好。
Several thousand Yazidis remain on the mountain, a senior United States official said, but not the tens of thousands who originally were believed to be there. Some of the people who remain on Mount Sinjar indicated to American forces that they considered the mountain to be a place of refuge and a home, and did not want to leave, a second United States official said.
一名美国高级官员表示，还有几千名雅兹迪人留在山中，不是最初所说的数万名难民。另一名美国官员表示，一些留在辛贾尔山的人告诉美国士兵，他们觉得那里是避难所，是家，他们不愿离开。
Both officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly on the issue.
由于没有获得公开谈论该问题的授权，这两名官员都要求匿名。
Rear Adm.l John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, said in a statement that “the team has assessed that there are far fewer Yazidis on Mount Sinjar than previously feared, in part because of the success of the humanitarian airdrops.”
五角大楼(Pentagon)新闻秘书约翰·F·柯比海军少将(Rear Adm. John F. Kirby)发表声明称，“根据工作小组的评估，辛贾尔山中的雅兹迪人比之前想的要少得多，部分原因是人道主义物资空投非常成功。”
He credited American airstrikes as well as the “efforts of the pesh merga and the ability of thousands of Yazidis to evacuate from the mountain each night over the last several days.” Defense officials said the evacuations were done in secret with the help of the Kurdish pesh merga fighters.
他称赞了美国的空袭行动，“以及敢死军(pesh merga)的努力和在过去几天中每晚都从山区撤离的数千名雅兹迪人的能耐”。国防部官员表示，撤离工作是在库尔德敢死军作战人员的帮助下秘密完成的。
The latest twist came just hours after Benjamin J. Rhodes, deputy national security adviser, told reporters in Martha’s Vineyard, where President Obama is vacation, that the president was likely to receive recommendations about how to mount a rescue operation in the next several days. He said those recommendations could have included the use of American ground troops. 
奥巴马正在玛莎葡萄园岛(Martha's Vineyard)度假。副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)曾在那里告诉记者，总统可能会接纳有关如何在未来几天发起救援行动的建议。他表示，这些建议可能包括派遣地面部队。几个小时后，事态出现了最新转折。
But Mr. Rhodes made those comments as the secret team of Marines and Special Operations forces were already on the ground on Mount Sinjar in the middle of a 24-hour trip to talk to the refugees and pesh merga fighters on the mountain.
但罗兹发表上述言论时，由海军陆战队及特种作战部队士兵组成的秘密小组已经抵达辛贾尔山，他们当时在开展为期一天的行动，向山中的难民及敢死军作战人员了解情况。