SYDNEY, Australia — Raise the subject of President Obama’s Asia policy here and an American can expect to be bombarded with questions.
澳大利亚悉尼——如果要在此地聊起奥巴马总统的亚洲政策这个话题，美国人将受到狂轰滥炸式的提问，这恐怕是意料中的事。
With the slowdown in Pentagon spending, and dysfunction in Congress, will the United States really put 60 percent of its defense assets in the Asia-Pacific region by 2020, as promised? Can Mr. Obama afford to invest more time in Asia when he is bogged down with crises in Ukraine and Syria? Can the United States be counted on to defend its allies if China becomes a real threat? What does Mr. Obama’s idea to “rebalance” America’s Asia policy, announced in 2011, really mean?
在美国国防开支下降、国会运转不灵的时刻，美国还会真的像承诺的那样，到2020年将国防资源的60%投入到亚太地区吗？就在奥巴马陷入乌克兰和叙利亚危机无法脱身时，他还能在亚洲投入更多时间吗？如果中国成为一个真正的威胁，美国在亚洲的盟友们还能指望它帮助进行防御吗？奥巴马在2011年宣布美国亚洲政策“再平衡”的想法，到底是何用意？
It’s important that Mr. Obama’s trip to Japan, South Korea, the Philippines and Malaysia this week clarify his plans for greater engagement with Asia. The policy was initially oversold by the White House and, as a result, is often misunderstood in the region as a zero-sum shift rather than a more nuanced calibration. The United States, a longstanding power in the Asia-Pacific region, cannot plausibly abandon its interests in the Middle East, even after withdrawing troops from Iraq and Afghanistan. And America could never disengage from Europe even if Mr. Obama is sometimes accused of being neglectful of allies there.
因此，奥巴马本周访问日本、韩国、菲律宾和马来西亚之时就需要澄清，他将如何增进与亚洲的关系，这一点十分重要。白宫起初对这项政策大加宣扬，导致了亚洲地区的许多人产生误解，以为这是一次“零和博弈”式的转变，而不是一种更细微的校准。作为亚太地区存在已久的一股力量，即使美国从伊拉克和阿富汗撤军之后，它也绝无可能放弃在中东利益。美国也永远不可能切断与欧洲的关系，尽管人们有时会指责奥巴马忽略了欧洲的盟友。
Still, focusing more attention on Asia has long made sense, given the region’s growing economic importance and the rise of a more assertive China, which has propelled many Asian nations to seek closer cooperation with America.
但无论如何，鉴于亚洲的经济重要性日益增强，而日渐强硬的中国也正在崛起，将更多注意力投向亚洲从长期来说是合理的。中国的崛起已促使许多亚洲国家寻求与美国建立更密切的合作。
Mr. Obama’s approach has been criticized by many experts, in Asia and at home, who see the rebalance as over-militarized. Examples include the promised shift of more American defense assets to the region; a new base-sharing agreement with the Philippines; rotating deployments of United States marines in Darwin, Australia; a reassertion of America’s alliance with Japan in the context of Japan’s maritime dispute with China; and expanding arms purchases by the United States’ regional allies and partners.
亚洲和美国的许多专家认为，再平衡政策过度军事化，纷纷批评奥巴马的这种做法。过度军事化的例子包括承诺将更多的美国国防资源转移至该地区；与菲律宾签署军事基地共享协议；让美国海军陆战队轮流驻扎在澳大利亚达尔文；在日本与中国发生海上争端的大背景之下，重申美国与日本的联盟关系；扩大美国对亚洲地区的盟友和伙伴国的军售规模。
Security among Asian nations is a top concern. The Ukraine crisis — and Mr. Obama’s response to it — is being watched closely in Asia. The Japanese, particularly, are nervous that the United States is under congressional pressure to slow military spending, and have questioned whether America will deploy its forces should there be conflict with China.
在亚洲国家，安全问题是一项首要考虑。亚洲各国密切关注着乌克兰危机，以及奥巴马的应对手段。日本尤其担心，美国会在国会的压力之下削减军事开支，而且也提出了疑问，一旦日本与中国发生冲突，美国是否会部署军力。
A challenge for Mr. Obama is managing the deepening relationships with Asian allies to enhance stability and freedom of the seas in their region without exacerbating tensions with China. For example, China’s defense minister asserted “indisputable sovereignty” over disputed islands in the East China Sea, in an exchange with Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who was in China earlier this month. Yet there were also signs of cooperation when Mr. Hagel was invited to tour the country’s lone aircraft carrier and the two sides agreed to hold regular high-level talks on regional security and their armies.
奥巴马面临的一项挑战就是管理与亚洲盟友持续深入的关系，来增进该地区的稳定与海域的自由，同时也避免加剧与中国的紧张关系。例如，中国国防部长在与本月初访华的美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)进行交流时，称中国对东海争议岛屿有着“无可争议的主权”。但是当哈格尔受邀参观中国唯一的航母时，也显示出了合作的迹象，并且双方同意就地区安全和军队问题定期举行高层会谈。
But the rebalance has to be broader than defense, starting with a robust economic component. The one recurring theme was the importance of achieving the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade pact being negotiated among the United States, Japan and 10 other nations. The Japanese and Americans have been working to resolve differences on agricultural issues so a breakthrough could be announced when Mr. Obama is in Tokyo. Gaps are said to be narrowing, but the outcome is in doubt.
但是再平衡政策应从活跃的经济领域着手，必须使其超越国防的范畴。一个反复出现的主题就是，美、日及其他10国正在进行谈判的跨太平洋伙伴关系(Trans-Pacific Partnership)贸易协定的重要性。日本和美国正在努力解决农业问题上的一些分歧，这样等奥巴马在东京时，就可以公布一项突破性的进展。据说，分歧正在缩小，但结果尚不明确。
Beyond that are other steps that the administration is pursuing to bind countries in ways that are intended to make conflict less likely and improve economic growth. These include strengthening regional institutions like the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) and the East Asian Summit meeting, which Mr. Obama will attend later this year; developing partnerships on energy, oceans and climate change with nations like India and Vietnam; and being the host of the first ever meeting of Asean defense ministers earlier this month in Hawaii to discuss humanitarian assistance and disaster relief procedures.
除此之外，奥巴马政府也在寻求采取其他一些措施，来增强与其他国家联系，从而减少冲突的发生并改善经济增长。这些措施包括强化东南亚国家联盟(Association of Southeast Asian Nations)、东亚峰会(East Asia Summit)等区域性机制，奥巴马将于今年下半年出席东盟峰会；与印度、越南等国在能源、海洋和气候变化领域发展伙伴关系；首次作为东道主，于本月早些时候在夏威夷举行东盟国防部长会议，讨论人道援助和灾难救援程序。