Any day now, our Saudi Arabian allies may behead and crucify a young man named Ali al-Nimr.
我们的沙特阿拉伯盟友随时都可能会斩首一个名叫阿里·尼米尔(Ali al-Nimr)的年轻人，并把他的遗体钉在十字架上。
His appeals following his court sentence for this grisly execution have been exhausted, so guards may lead Nimr to a public square and hack off his head with a sword as onlookers jeer. Then, following Saudi protocol for crucifixion, they would hang his body as a warning to others.
法庭做出这个骇人听闻的死刑判决后，他已经用尽了所有上诉途径。因此，狱卒可能会把他带去一处公共广场，在旁观者的嘲弄声中，用大刀砍下他的头颅。然后，按照沙特将遗体钉在十字架上的规程，他们会把他的遗体吊起来，以儆效尤。
Nimr’s offense? He was arrested at age 17 for participating in anti-government protests. The government has said he attacked police officers and rioted, but the only known evidence is a confession apparently extracted under torture that left him a bloody mess.
尼米尔的罪行是什么？他17岁时因为参加一场反政府抗议而被捕。政府称他袭警并有骚乱行为，但已知的唯一证据是一份口供，而那份口供却似乎是屈打成招。严刑拷打让他浑身沾满血污。
“When I visited my son for the first time I didn’t recognize him,” his mother, Nusra al-Ahmed, told The Guardian. “I didn’t know whether this really was my son Ali or not.”
“第一次探视我儿子时，我都没认出来，”他的母亲努斯拉·艾哈迈德(Nusra al-Ahmed)对《卫报》(The Guardian)说。“我都不知道那到底是不是我的儿子阿里。”
Nimr was recently moved to solitary confinement in preparation for execution. In Britain, where the sentence has received attention, the foreign secretary says he does “not expect” it to be carried out. But Nimr’s family fears execution could come any day.
最近，为给行刑做准备，尼米尔被单独关押。在英国，判决引起了关注，英国外交大臣称他“预料判决不会执行”。但尼米尔的家人担心，随时都可能行刑。
Saudi Arabia’s medieval criminal justice system also executes “witches,” and flogs and imprisons gay people.
沙特阿拉伯中世纪式的刑事司法制度还会处死“女巫”，实施笞刑和关押同性恋。
It’s time for a frank discussion about our ally Saudi Arabia and its role legitimizing fundamentalism and intolerance in the Islamic world. Western governments have tended to bite their tongues because they see Saudi Arabia as a pillar of stability in a turbulent region — but I’m not sure that’s right.
是时候坦率地谈谈我们的盟友沙特阿拉伯了，还有它在伊斯兰世界发挥的合法化原教旨主义和党同伐异的作用。西方国家的政府喜欢对此保持缄默，因为它们将沙特视作这一动荡地区的中流砥柱——但我并不认为这种做法是正确的。
Saudi Arabia has supported Wahhabi madrasas in poor countries in Africa and Asia, exporting extremism and intolerance. Saudi Arabia also exports instability with its brutal war in Yemen, intended to check what it sees as Iranian influence. Saudi airstrikes have killed thousands, and the blockading of ports has been even more devastating. Some Yemeni children are starving, and 80 percent of Yemenis now need assistance.
沙特一直在亚非贫穷国家支持瓦哈比派宗教学院、出口极端主义与不宽容的思想。沙特还在出口动荡，并在也门发动了残忍的战争，意在制衡它眼中的伊朗势力。沙特发动的空袭杀死了成千上万人，而对港口的封锁更是雪上加霜。一些也门孩童忍饥挨饿，目前有80%的人口需要援助。
There’s also an underlying hypocrisy in Saudi behavior. This is a country that sentenced a 74-year-old British man to 350 lashes for possessing alcohol (some British reports say he may be allowed to leave Saudi Arabia following international outrage), yet I’ve rarely seen as much hard liquor as at Riyadh parties attended by government officials.
沙特的行为方式中，还蕴含着一股子虚伪。这个国家以持有酒类为名判处了一名74岁的英国老人350下鞭刑（英国的一些报道称，在引发国际社会的强烈抗议之后，他可能会被允许离开沙特），但在政府官员出席的利雅得聚会上，我看到的烈酒之多，实属平生罕见。
A Saudi prince, Majed Abdulaziz al-Saud, was just arrested in Los Angeles in a $37 million mansion he had rented, after allegedly drinking heavily, hiring escorts, using cocaine, terrorizing women and threatening to kill people.
不久前，沙特的一名亲王马吉德·阿卜杜勒阿齐兹(Majed Abdulaziz al-Saud)于他在洛杉矶租用的价值3700万美元的豪宅里遭到拘捕。据称他酗酒、招妓、吸食可卡因、恐吓女性并威胁杀人。
“I am a prince,” he declared, according to an account in The Los Angeles Times. “And I do what I want.”
《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)的报道显示，他宣称，“我是亲王。我想干什么就干什么。”
Saudi Arabia isn’t the enemy, but it is a problem. It could make so much positive difference in the Islamic world if it used its status to soothe Sunni-Shiite tensions and encourage tolerance. For a time, under King Abdullah, it seemed that the country was trying to reform, but now under King Salman it has stalled.
沙特并非我们的敌人，但它是有问题的。倘若能利用自己在伊斯兰世界的地位来缓解逊尼派与什叶派之间的矛盾并鼓励仁政，沙特本可以带来天翻地覆的变化。在阿卜杜拉国王(King Abdullah)治下，有那么一段时间，沙特似乎在尝试变革，但在现任国王萨尔曼(King Salman)治下，一切又停滞了。
In effect, Saudi Arabia legitimizes fundamentalism, religious discrimination, intolerance and the oppression of women. Saudi women not only can’t drive, but are also told by some clerics that they mustn’t wear seatbelts for fear of showing the outlines of their bodies. Saudi Arabia inflames the Sunni-Shiite divide and sets a pernicious example of intolerance by banning churches.
实际上，沙特在将原教旨主义、宗教歧视、党同伐异及压迫女性合法化。沙特女性不仅不能开车，还被某些神职人员命令绝不能使用安全带，免得显出身体的轮廓。沙特在加深逊尼派与什叶派之间的鸿沟，并通过对教堂的禁令创下了党同伐异的恶劣先例。
Even Iran lately has mocked Saudi Arabia for mistreating women — and when misogynistic Iranian hard-liners can claim the high ground on women’s rights, you’ve got a problem.
就连伊朗近期都在嘲笑沙特未能善待女性——当敌视女性的伊朗强硬派都能在女权议题上占据道德高点时，问题显而易见。
I’ve defended Islam from critics like Bill Maher who, as I see it, demonize a diverse faith of 1.6 billion Muslims because a small percentage are violent extremists. But it’s incumbent on those of us who object to this demonization to speak up against genuine extremism. Sadly, Saudi Arabia is a gift to Islamophobes; it does far more damage to the reputation of Islam than any blaspheming cartoonists.
面对比尔·马赫(Bill Maher)这样的批评人士时，我一直在为伊斯兰教辩护。在我看来，他们因为一小撮暴力极端分子而妖魔化了16亿穆斯林信奉的这一丰富多彩的信仰。不过，我们这些抗议此类妖魔化的人，有责任高声反对真正的极端主义。悲哀的是，沙特是给伊斯兰恐惧症患者拱手送上的礼物；它对伊斯兰声誉的抹黑，要远远超出什么亵渎真主的漫画家。
Granted, many Saudis are pushing for reform. One bright young writer, Raif Badawi, 31, called eloquently for women’s rights, education reform and freedom of thought, and Saudi Arabia has sentenced him to 10 years in prison, a $267,000 fine and a flogging of 1,000 lashes (50 at a time, with one session administered so far). His wife, Ensaf Haidar, tells me that his flogging is to resume soon after a long suspension, and that she fears he will not survive the entire lashing.
诚然，有许多沙特人在推动变革。31岁的文坛新秀拉伊夫·巴达维(Raif Badawi)为女性权益、教育改革与思想自由高声疾呼，结果被沙特判处10年监禁、26.7万美元罚款，外加1000下鞭刑（每次50下，迄今已执行一次）。他的妻子恩塞芙·艾达尔(Ensaf Haidar)告诉我，经过长时间的暂停后，他的鞭刑将很快恢复。她担心丈夫没法熬过这1000下。
The United States government has largely averted its eyes from all this, at least in public, merely expressing deep concern about the crucifixion sentence even as it provides weaponry to enable the Saudi assault on Yemen.
美国政府对这些事情大多视而不见，至少在公开场合如此，仅在尼米尔被判处尸体示众一事上“深表关切”。与此同时，美国还在向沙特提供武器，使其得以对也门发动攻击。
That’s realpolitik. Saudi Arabia has oil and influence, and the Obama administration needed to cuddle with Saudi Arabia to win the Iranian nuclear deal. But now that that deal has been achieved, should we still be silent?
这是实用主义政治在作祟。沙特拥有石油和影响力，奥巴马政府也需要与沙特称兄道弟来争取伊朗核协议。不过，既然现在协议已经达成了，我们还应该保持沉默吗？
We do neither ourselves nor the Saudi people any favors when we wink at an ally that crucifies its people.
我们对盟友干出尸体示众这种事视而不见的话，既无益于我们自身，也无益于沙特民众。