The American Medical Association has officially recognized obesity as a disease, a move that could induce physicians to pay more attention to the condition and spur more insurers to pay for treatments.
美国医学会(American Medical Association)已经正式承认肥胖是一种疾病，此举不仅可能促使医生更加重视肥胖问题，而且会促使更多的保险公司支付肥胖的治疗费用。
In making the decision, delegates at the association’s annual meeting in Chicago overrode a recommendation against doing so by a committee that had studied the matter.
一个对此进行过研究的委员会建议不要把肥胖定义为疾病，但在芝加哥举办的美国医学会年会上，代表们否决了该项建议，做出了这项决定。
“Recognizing obesity as a disease will help change the way the medical community tackles this complex issue that affects approximately one in three Americans,” Dr. Patrice Harris, a member of the association’s board, said in a statement. She suggested the new definition would help in the fight against Type 2 diabetes and heart disease, which are linked to obesity.
美国医学会理事帕特里斯·哈里斯博士(Patrice Harris)在一份声明中说，“承认肥胖是一种疾病，将有助于转变医学界处理这个复杂问题的方式，大约三分之一的美国人都受到这个问题的影响。”她认为这个新定义将有助于人们跟2型糖尿病和心脏病作斗争，这些疾病都和肥胖有关。
To some extent, the question of whether obesity is a disease or not is a semantic one, since there is not even a universally agreed upon definition of what constitutes a disease. And the A.M.A.’s decision has no legal authority.
从某种程度上说，“肥胖是否算一种疾病”只是一个语义上的问题，因为对于怎样才算是疾病，人们都没有普遍共识。而且美国医学会的决定也不具有法律效力。
Still, some doctors and obesity advocates said that having the nation’s largest physician group make the declaration would focus more attention on obesity. And it could help improve reimbursement for obesity drugs, surgery and counseling.
尽管如此，一些医生和减肥倡导者仍然表示，全国最大的医师团体发表这一声明，将促使人们更加重视肥胖问题。这有助于提高减肥药物、手术和咨询辅导费用的报销比例。
“I think you will probably see from this physicians taking obesity more seriously, counseling their patients about it,” said Morgan Downey, an advocate for obese people and publisher of the online Downey Obesity Report. “Companies marketing the products will be able to take this to physicians and point to it and say, ‘Look, the mother ship has now recognized obesity as a disease.’ ”
“我认为，你可能会看到医师们更加认真地对待肥胖问题，并在这方面对患者加以辅导。”摩根·唐尼(Morgan Downey)说，他是在线刊物《唐尼肥胖报告》(Downey Obesity Report)的出版人，也是减肥支持者。“推广减肥产品的公司可以拿着这个决定去见医师，指着它说：‘瞧，母舰现在都已经承认肥胖是一种疾病了。’”
Two new obesity drugs — Qsymia from Vivus, and Belviq from Arena Pharmaceuticals and Eisai — have entered the market in the last year.
去年有两种新的减肥药进入市场，维瓦士公司(Vivus)的Qsymia，以及阿瑞娜制药公司(Arena Pharmaceuticals)和卫材公司(Eisai)的Belviq。
Qsymia has not sold well for a variety of reasons, including poor reimbursement and distribution restrictions imposed because of concerns that the drug can cause birth defects. Those restrictions are now being relaxed. Belviq went on sale only about a week ago, so it is too early to tell how it is doing.
Qsymia销售状况不佳的原因有很多，比如由于担心它可能导致生育缺陷，Qsymia的报销比例极低，分销也受到限制，不过现在这些限制已经放宽。Belviq一个星期之前才开始发售，所以要判断它的销售形势还为时过早。
Whether obesity should be called a disease has long been debated. The Obesity Society officially issued its support for classifying obesity as a disease in 2008, with Mr. Downey as one of the authors of the paper.
肥胖应不应该被称为是一种疾病，长期以来，人们一直对这个问题争论不休。2008年，肥胖协会(The Obesity Society)正式发表文章，支持将它归类为疾病；唐尼就是那篇文章的作者之一。
The vote of the A.M.A. House of Delegates went against the conclusions of the association’s Council on Science and Public Health, which had studied the issue over the last year. The council said that obesity should not be considered a disease mainly because the measure usually used to define obesity, the body mass index, is simplistic and flawed.
美国医学会代表大会的投票，否决了医学会下属的科学和公共健康委员会(Council on Science and Public Health)的结论。后者在过去一年中研究过这个问题，他们表示肥胖不应被认为是一种疾病，主要原因在于我们通常用身体质量指数（body mass index，简称BMI）来衡量一个人是否肥胖，这个方式过于简单了，而且存在缺陷。
Some people with a B.M.I. above the level that usually defines obesity are perfectly healthy while others below it can have dangerous levels of body fat and metabolic problems associated with obesity.
有些人超过了通常用来界定肥胖的BMI水平，但他们其实非常健康，而BMI低于肥胖标准的人却可能拥有危险的体脂水平，以及跟肥胖有关的新陈代谢问题。
“Given the existing limitations of B.M.I. to diagnose obesity in clinical practice, it is unclear that recognizing obesity as a disease, as opposed to a ‘condition’ or ‘disorder,’ will result in improved health outcomes,” the council wrote.
该委员会写道，“鉴于在临床实践中用BMI来诊断肥胖存在局限性，尚不清楚承认肥胖是一种疾病，而不是一种‘状况’或‘异常’，是否会导致健康状况的改善。”
The council summarized the arguments for and against calling obesity a disease.
该委员会总结了把肥胖定义为疾病的正反两方面论点。
One reason in favor, it said, was that it would reduce the stigma of obesity that stems from the widespread perception that it is simply the result of eating too much or exercising too little. Some doctors say that people do not have full control over their weight.
总结中写道，支持的一个原因是：人们普遍认为肥胖纯粹是吃得太多，运动太少的结果，这使肥胖背上了污名，把肥胖定义为疾病可以洗刷这个污名。一些医生说，人无法完全掌控自己的体重。
Supporters of the disease classification also say it fits some medical criteria of a disease, such as impairing body function.
支持者们还表示，肥胖符合疾病的一些医学标准，比如损害身体机能等。
Those arguing against it say that there are no specific symptoms associated with it and that it is more a risk factor for other conditions than a disease in its own right.
反对者们则表示，与肥胖有关的具体症状并不存在，肥胖更多地是其他病状的一个危险因素，并非本身就是一种疾病。
They also say that “medicalizing” obesity by declaring it a disease would define one-third of Americans as being ill and could lead to more reliance on costly drugs and surgery rather than lifestyle changes. Some people might be overtreated because their B.M.I. was above a line designating them as having a disease, even though they were healthy.
反对者还认为，宣称肥胖是一种疾病，从而“医学化”肥胖，会把三分之一的美国人界定为病人，并可能导致人们更加依赖于昂贵的药物和手术治疗，而不是改变生活方式。有些人可能会因为BMI超标而受到过度治疗，即使他们本身很健康。
The delegates rejected the conclusion of the council and voted instead in favor of a resolution pushed by the American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists, the American College of Cardiology and some other organizations.
代表们否定了委员会的结论，投票赞同了美国临床内分泌学家协会(American Association of Clinical Endocrinologist)、美国心脏病学会(American College of Cardiology)和其他一些组织推动的一项决议。
This resolution argued that obesity was a “multimetabolic and hormonal disease state” that leads to unfavorable outcomes like Type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
该决议认为，肥胖是一种“多代谢和激素病状”，导致了像2型糖尿病和心血管疾病这样的不良后果。
“The suggestion that obesity is not a disease but rather a consequence of a chosen lifestyle exemplified by overeating and/or inactivity is equivalent to suggesting that lung cancer is not a disease because it was brought about by individual choice to smoke cigarettes,” the resolution said.
这份决议说，“说肥胖不是一种疾病，而是像暴饮暴食和缺乏运动这种生活方式选择所导致的结果，这相当于说肺癌不是一种疾病，因为它是抽烟这种个人选择所导致的结果。”