Southern Chinese lion dancing comes from an ancient tale: Terrorized by a mythical monster, a horde of villagers descended from the mountains and huddled under an enormous monster of their own in an attempt to repel the beast. Year after year, to the accompaniment of firecracker bursts and drums, the ritual is repeated as protection against evil spirits. At least that’s one version.
中国南方的舞狮起源于一个古代传说：由于害怕一只神兽，一群村民从山中下来，挤在一个自制的巨型怪兽身下，试图将神兽赶走。年复一年，舞狮作为一个辟邪的仪式伴随着爆竹和击鼓声上演。至少这是一种说法。
“Everyone tells it differently,” said Jason Lam.
“每个人的说法都不一样”，杰森·林(Jason Lam)说道。
For him, lion dancing was an easy transition from martial arts, and from middle school to college. He was a regular practitioner of the quick-footed routine performed under heavy and intricate costumes. Like most lion dancers, he took to the stage during anniversaries, birthdays, store openings and parades for celebrations like the Chinese New Year, Feb. 19 this year.While studying at the International Center of Photography last year, Mr. Lam decided to step outside the lion costume to view the tradition he said serves as a hinge between his Asian ancestry and American upbringing. Friends in San Francisco, where Mr. Lam is from, put him in touch with the Wan Chi Ming Hung Gar Institute in Manhattan. There, he spent nine months documenting a brotherhood of young martial arts enthusiasts and performers expressing their heritage.
对他来说，舞狮是自武术、及自中学到大学的一个轻松过渡。他经常身着沉重且复杂的戏服做出快步的舞狮招式。像多数舞狮表演者一样，他在周年纪念日、生日、店铺开张和庆祝春节等节庆游行时表演。今年的春节在2月19日。在去年于国际摄影中心(International Center of Photography)学习时，杰森·林决定从舞狮的戏服中抽出身来，从其外审视这个传统习俗——他认为舞狮是一条联结着他的亚裔背景和在美成长经历的纽带。杰森·林来自旧金山，那里的朋友把他介绍给了位于曼哈顿的温志明洪拳国术总会(Wan Chi Ming Hung Gar Institute)。在那里，他花了九个月的时间，记录了一群年轻武术爱好者、同时也是一群将自身文化遗产外化的表演者之间的兄弟情谊。
“You’re one person at home with a Chinese name and another person outside with an English name,” Mr. Lam said. His portfolio from this time, “Inside the Lion,” captures dancers, most of them first-generation Chinese-Americans, training, performing and interacting in vivid garb with an American landscape that often stands in stark contrast.
“在家里用着中文名的你是一个人，在外面用着英文名的你又是另外一个人了，”杰森·林说。他这个时期的作品——《狮身之下》(“Inside the Lion”)——捕捉的是多为第一代中国移民的舞狮者如何训练、表演，及在栩栩如生的戏服之中，与时常和这一切形成鲜明反差的美国风景交融。