WASHINGTON — The Obama administration announced Wednesday that it was imposing sanctions on North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un, personally, blacklisting the unpredictable ruler for human rights abuses for the first time as his reclusive government aggressively presses forward with its nuclear and ballistic missile programs.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府周三宣布，将对侵犯人权的朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)进行个人制裁。就在金正恩的政府积极推进其核武器和弹道导弹计划的时候，这个行事出人预料的领导人首次被列入了黑名单。
The State Department took the unusual step of naming Kim and 14 other senior officials it said were responsible for grave human rights abuses in a five-page report detailing repression in North Korea. The report singled out top figures in its intelligence and security ministries, which the department said had engaged in practices including extrajudicial killings, forced labor and torture.
国务院的这个做法很不寻常，金正恩和其他14名被指严重侵犯人权的高级官员遭到了制裁。在五页的报告中，国务院详述了朝鲜的镇压行动。报告指出，这些情报和安全部门高官参与了包括处决、强制劳动和实施酷刑的行动。
The Treasury Department, imposing its first human rights sanctions on any North Korean official, designated them on a list of people whose assets are frozen and who are barred from transactions with any U.S. citizen.
这是财政部(Treasury Department)第一次对朝鲜官员实施人权制裁：他们被列入一个资产冻结名单，任何美国公民都禁止与名单上的人做交易。
The actions were mandated by Congress as part of a law enacted in February that required the administration to report on human rights abuses in North Korea and to impose sanctions on anyone found responsible. But senior administration officials said they had been long planned to take more aggressive actions that would move human rights violations — until now on the periphery of the United States’ efforts to isolate and punish North Korea for its bad behavior — to a more central element of the administration’s strategy. That involved a painstaking process of identifying the officials inside North Korea’s secretive system who were the worst offenders.
这些行动是由国会授权的，因为今年2月颁布的一项法律要求政府汇报朝鲜的侵犯人权行为，并对责任人进行制裁。但政府高级官员表示，他们早就计划要采取更加积极的行动，把侵犯人权——在目前美国孤立和惩罚朝鲜不良行为的行动中，这方面并非主要考虑因素——放到政府战略中一个更加靠近中心的位置上。这就需要开展一项艰难的工作，在行事隐秘的朝鲜体制内锁定行为最恶劣者。
“The report represents the most comprehensive U.S. government effort to date to name those responsible for or associated with the worst aspects of the North Korean government’s repression, including serious human rights abuses and censorship in the DPRK, and we will continue to identify more individuals and entities in future reports,” John Kirby, the State Department spokesman, said in a statement accompanying the report. DPRK is an abbreviation for Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, another name for North Korea.
“美国政府试图找出朝鲜政府最严厉的镇压行动的责任人和相关者，这份报告代表了迄今为止最全面的努力。DPRK的镇压行动包括严重侵犯人权的行为和审查活动，在今后的报告中，我们将继续找出更多的个人和机构，”美国国务院发言人约翰·柯比(John Kirby)在报告附带的声明中说。DPRK是朝鲜全称“朝鲜民主主义人民共和国”的缩写。
“With these efforts, we aim to send a signal to all government officials who might be responsible for human rights abuses, including prison camp managers and guards, interrogators and defector chasers, with the goal of changing their behavior,” Kirby said.
“我们进行的这些努力，意图是向所有可能侵犯了人权的朝鲜政府官员释放信号，以求改变他们的行为，这些人包括劳改营管理人员和警卫、审讯和追捕叛逃者的人，”柯比说。
The new sanctions come as President Barack Obama has moved to intensify repercussions against North Korea for testing nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles. They also come about a month after the Obama administration sought to further choke off North Korea’s access to the world financial system by designating the country a “primary” money launderer. They also come a few weeks after Donald Trump, the Republican Party’s presumptive presidential nominee, said he would meet with Kim to discuss North Korea’s nuclear program.
宣布新的制裁之际，奥巴马已加紧对朝鲜试验核武器和弹道导弹做出反应。大约一个月前，奥巴马政府还将该国列入“主要”的洗钱国家，设法进一步阻止朝鲜进入世界金融体系。另外，数周之前，稳获共和党总统提名的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)说他会和金正恩会面，讨论朝鲜的核计划。
Senior Obama administration officials said Wednesday that while the new human rights sanctions were proceeding on a separate track from those related to North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs, ultimately the two sets of actions should be mutually reinforcing.
奥巴马政府高级官员本周三表示，新的人权制裁措施和有关朝鲜的核计划和导弹计划的制裁行动是分别进行的，但两者最终会互有促进。
Among the other officials named on Wednesday are Cho Il-u, a senior official in the Reconnaissance General Bureau, North Korea’s top intelligence agency, who the Treasury Department said was in charge of hunting down defectors and “conducting operations to harm” them. The State Department report said the bureau had been responsible for kidnapping South Korean and Japanese citizens and for assassinations over a period of decades.
周三被列入名单的其他官员中，还有朝鲜最高情报机构侦查总局(Reconnaissance General Bureau)高级官员赵日禹（Cho Il-U，音），财政部说他负责追捕叛逃者，并对他们“采取伤害行动”。国务院报告说：该局几十年一直负责绑架和暗杀韩国和日本公民。
Also blacklisted was Choe Chang Pong, chief of investigations at the Ministry of People’s Security, identified by the administration as being responsible for monitoring residents on North Korea’s border with China and arresting and interrogating defectors. The report said the ministry operated the majority of the country’s labor camps and routinely “uses torture and other forms of abuse to extract confessions, including techniques involving sexual violence, hanging individuals from the ceiling for extended periods of time, prolonged periods of exposure and severe beatings.”
朝鲜人民保安部(Ministry of People’s Security)调查局局长崔昌奉（Choe Chang Pong，音）也被列入黑名单，因为他负责监视中国与朝鲜边境的居民，并逮捕和审问叛逃者。报告说，该部管理着该国大多数劳改营，经常“使用酷刑和其他形式的虐待进行逼供，包括涉及性暴力的行动，长时间将人挂在天花板上，让他们长时间受冻，以及对他们进行残酷殴打。”
“Under Kim Jong Un, North Korea continues to inflict intolerable cruelty and hardship on millions of its own people, including extrajudicial killings, forced labor, and torture,” Adam J. Szubin, Treasury’s top sanctions official, said in a statement detailing the new sanctions.
“在金正恩上台后，朝鲜继续让数以百万计的人民遭受无法忍受的残忍和苦难对待，方式包括处决、强制劳动和酷刑，”财政部负责制裁的官员亚当·J·舒宾(Adam J. Szubin)在一份详细解释新制裁措施的声明中说。
He said the actions “highlight the U.S. government’s condemnation of this regime’s abuses and our determination to see them stopped.”
他说，制裁行动“突显了美国政府对该国虐待行为的谴责，以及让他们停手的决心”。