Since late last year, presidential hopefuls have been romancing donors, hiring staff and haunting the diners and senior centers of Manchester and Dubuque.
从去年底开始，总统候选人一直在拉拢捐助者、招聘工作人员，并频繁出席晚宴、造访曼彻斯特和迪比克的老年人活动中心。
But on paper, most of the candidates spent virtually no money exploring a presidential bid until very recently. According to campaign disclosures filed with the Federal Election Commission last week, the much-promoted campaign staff they hired had other jobs. And their many, many trips to New Hampshire and Iowa had nothing to do with running for president.
但从账面看，直到最近，大部分候选人才开始为总统竞选付出真金白银。联邦选举委员会(Federal Election Commission)上周收到的竞选活动信息显示，他们聘用并大力拔擢的那些竞选工作人员，都另有正职。他们对新罕布什尔州和爱荷华州的频繁造访，也和总统竞选没关系。
Such accounting — which the campaigns defended as perfectly appropriate but some election lawyers said violated the law — has allowed would-be candidates to spend months testing the presidential waters while saving cash to use later in the primaries.
这种记账方式——相关竞选团队认为完全恰当，但在一些选举事务律师看来是违法的——让潜在候选人既可以花数月时间试探总统大选的水温，又可以把钱节省下来，留到参加初选时再用。
It also let them tap their most loyal donors for additional funds that will not count against the limits on contributions to their official campaigns. And it has contributed to what some experts described as a kind of campaign Wild West, with candidates and their lawyers testing or crossing legal boundaries stretched thin by the advent of “super PACs” and by Federal Election Commission deadlocks.
它还让潜在候选人得以从最忠实的捐助者那里获得额外资助，并且不必受正式竞选活动资助限额的限制。它也为专家们口中的某种竞选蛮荒地带的形成做出了贡献——候选人及其律师正在测试或者跨过法律的边界。“超级政治行动委员会”(super PACs)的兴起以及联邦选举委员会的僵化，让法律的边界有所拓展。
“We’re in uncharted territory,” said Kenneth Gross, a Washington election lawyer and former Federal Election Commission general counsel. “This campaign cycle more than any other, we’ve seen more pre-announcement activity being paid for through essentially unregulated money.”
“我们处于全新的领域，”华盛顿选举事务律师、曾担任联邦选举委员会法律总顾问的肯尼斯·格罗斯(Kenneth Gross)说。“这个竞选周期比以往更甚，我们透过预公布的活动可以看到，由不受监管的资金买单的活动更多了。”
Senators Ted Cruz and Rand Paul have billed hotel rooms in New Hampshire and consulting fees for Iowa strategists to their re-election campaigns in Texas and Kentucky. Gov. Scott Walker billed fees to a Texas-based fund-raiser, hired in March, to his Wisconsin state campaign, months after he was re-elected governor and years away from a potential 2018 Statehouse bid.
参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)和兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)已经根据在新罕布什尔州住宾馆的费用以及付给帮他们在德克萨斯州和肯塔基州竞选连任的战略学家的费用开列了账单。斯科特·沃克(Scott Walker)数月前刚刚连任威斯康辛州州长，很可能还会在2018年竞选国会议员，他要求自己今年3月聘请的田纳西州募款人支付在威斯康辛州的竞选费用。
Several candidates, including former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, reported to the Federal Election Commission that they spent almost nothing to explore a presidential bid until a few days before they jumped into the race. Federal law requires declared candidates to retroactively report “exploratory” expenses once they enter the race.
包括德克萨斯州前州长里克·佩里(Rick Perry)、路易斯安那州州长博比·金达尔(Bobby Jindal)佛蒙特州参议员伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders )在内，若干候选人向联邦选举委员会报告称，直到参加竞选数日前，他们才开始投入资金为竞选探路。按照联邦法律，候选人一旦宣布参选，就要提交与此前的“探路费”有关的信息。
Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, reported hundreds of thousands of dollars of exploratory spending, dating to May last year, on political and legal advice. But he did not report any travel expenses before June, though he traveled extensively during the winter and spring to meet with donors and attend town-hall-style meetings in early primary states.
佛罗里达州前杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)报告称，从去年5月算起，他的“探路费”为数十万美元，主要用来获得政治和法律方面的建议。但在他的报告里，今年6月之前没有任何差旅费支出，尽管他曾在去年冬天和今年春天大量出差，会见捐助者、参加初选州的市民大会。
Mr. Bush and some other White House contenders say those expenses are unrelated to their presidential campaigns and were paid for by other political organizations — typically not subject to the same disclosure rules and contribution limits as presidential candidates. The campaigns argued that any costs paid for by such groups were unrelated to exploring a presidential bid and did not need to be repaid once the candidates announced their bids.
布什以及其他一些总统候选人表示，这些花费与总统竞选无关，由其他政治团体支付——通常不受“探路费”披露规则和总统候选人募捐限额的限制。他们的竞选团队认为，由这类团体承担的所有支出都和为竞选探路无关，在竞选人宣布参选后也不必偿还。
One such group, Conservative Solutions Project, a nonprofit set up by allies of Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, picked up the tab for extensive research of Republican primary voters, the kind of expense that would-be candidates bore in the past.
由佛罗里达州参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)的盟友创立的非营利组织保守党解决方案(Conservative Solutions Project)出资对在初选中选择共和党的选民开展广泛研究，这种开支过去都是由潜在候选人承担。
Other White House contenders have assigned months’ worth of expenses to campaigns for other offices.
其他竞选参与者将几个月的开支用于竞争其他职位。
Last summer, Mr. Paul hired Steve Grubbs, a former chairman of the Iowa Republican Party and an expert on the state’s first-in-the-nation caucuses, to assist with his national political efforts.
去年夏季，保罗聘用前艾奥瓦州共和党主席、该州第一场预选会议专家史蒂夫·格拉布斯(Steve Grubbs)协助他在全国开展政治努力。
Mr. Grubbs indicated in an email that he is currently advising Mr. Paul about Iowa, and Mr. Paul’s presidential campaign paid his firm, Victory Enterprises, about $200,000 during the second quarter of 2015.
格拉布斯在邮件中说明，他目前就有关艾奥瓦州的策略为保罗提供建议，保罗的总统竞选团队在2015年第二季度给了他的公司Victory Enterprises大约20万美元。
But during the first quarter of 2015, Mr. Grubbs’s fees — about $15,000 — came out of Mr. Paul’s Senate account. A spokesman for Mr. Paul, Sergio Gor, said those earlier payments were unrelated to the senator’s presidential campaign.
但在2015年第一季度，格拉布斯的费用为1.5万美元——由保罗的参议院账户支付。保罗的发言人塞尔焦·戈尔 (Sergio Gor)表示，之前支付的资金与保罗的总统竞选团队没有关系。
Hillary Rodham Clinton, who announced in April that she would seek the Democratic nomination, was among the more conservative candidates in accounting for her spending. Her campaign reported $278,821 in exploratory expenses, including office rent, staff travel and employee salaries and benefits, which she paid for out of her own pocket.
希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)今年4月宣布寻求民主党提名，她是在说明开支方面比较保守的候选人之一。其竞选团队声称他们的探索性支出为27.8821万美元，其中包括办公室租金、员工差旅费，以及员工的薪酬和福利，她自己掏腰包支付这些费用。
And unlike other candidates, Mrs. Clinton maintained a low profile before entering the race in April: A tally kept by the National Journal showed only five public trips before April, four of them for paid speeches and none in the early primary states.
与其他候选人不同，克林顿在今年4月参加竞选之前保持低调：《国家期刊》(National Journal) 统计的账目显示，克林顿在4月之前只有五次公款出行，其中四次是为了做有偿演讲，演讲地点不是那些较早进行初选的州。
Mr. Walker did not enter the campaign until after the period covered by the most recent federal filings. But the committee for his campaign for Wisconsin governor, Friends of Scott Walker, collected $6 million from January to July, according to reports filed with regulators in Wisconsin.
沃克在最近的一轮联邦申报过后才参选。但提交给威斯康星州监管机构的报告显示，帮助他竞选威斯康星州长的委员会斯科特·沃克的朋友(Friends of Scott Walker)在1月至7月期间筹集了600万美元。
His state committee, bound by Wisconsin law, was entitled to raise far more money per donor than a presidential campaign would be. And during the first six months of his second term, when Mr. Walker made more than 30 out-of-state trips, Friends of Scott Walker spent $5.7 million, more than five times what the committee spent during the equivalent six months of Mr. Walker’s first term.
该委员会受威斯康星州法律约束，每个捐赠者对该委员会的捐款上限远高于对总统竞选团队的捐款上限。在第二任期的前六个月期间，沃克的州外旅行达到了30多次，斯科特·沃克的朋友为此支付了570万美元，是沃克第一任期前六个月的差旅费用的五倍多。
With any Wisconsin re-election bid at least three years away, Mr. Walker’s committee paid out nearly $500,000 in salaries and benefits. Friends of Scott Walker also spent $114,000 on fund-raising events, 10 times what it spent on fund-raising during the equivalent period during his first term.
目前距离威斯康星州州长的连任选举至少还有三年的时间，该委员会已经支付了将近50万美元的薪酬及福利开销。斯科特·沃克的朋友还耗费11.4万美元举办筹资活动，这是他第一任期同一时期筹资费用的10倍。
His Wisconsin re-election campaign paid for hotels and meals in Iowa and New Hampshire from January to April. The committee has paid $2.5 million to his direct mail fund-raising firm this year, more than Mr. Walker spent with the company during his entire 2014 re-election campaign.
他的连任竞选团队支付了从1月到4月在艾奥瓦州及新罕布什尔州的住宿及餐饮费用。该委员会今年向他的直邮筹款公司支付了250万美元，多于沃克在2014年整个竞选连任时期付给该公司的钱。
A spokeswoman for Mr. Walker, Kirsten Kukowski, said the Iowa and New Hampshire expenses covered employees who “continued to assist in staffing and fund-raising for the Friends of Scott Walker committee.” The direct mail firm, she said, was raising money only for his campaign for governor.
沃克的发言人科尔斯滕·库克斯基(Kirsten Kukowski)表示，艾奥瓦州和新罕布什尔州的开支涵盖了那些“继续协助斯科特·沃克的朋友的人事安排及筹资活动工作”的员工的薪酬。她表示，该直邮公司只为他的州长竞选活动筹款。
Mr. Bush’s schedule in the months before he announced his candidacy was packed with the kind of appearances that would-be candidates typically use to explore their chances in a presidential race. He made three trips to New Hampshire, two to Iowa and two to South Carolina from January to May, according to public reports, and held numerous meetings with donors around the country.
在宣布参选前的几个月，布什忙于参加那种潜在候选人通常都会现身的活动，他们利用这些活动为竞选探路。公开报告显示，他在1月至5月期间，三次到访新罕布什尔州，两次到访艾奥瓦州，两次前往南卡罗来纳州，并与全国各地的捐赠者多次举行会议。
But while Mr. Bush’s presidential campaign reported spending more than $300,000 on “testing the waters” activity as far back as May 2014, he reported no travel expenses for himself before June 15, the day of the official announcement.
虽然早在2014年5月，布什的竞选团队就报告称花费逾30万美元开展“试水”活动，他在6月15日宣布参选之前，没有上报自己的差旅费用。
“He was traveling constantly in what appears to me to be ‘testing the waters’ if not actually campaigning,” said Paul S. Ryan, senior counsel to the Campaign Legal Center, which has filed complaints with the Justice Department about Mr. Bush’s early fund-raising and spending.
“他一直外出，在我看来这是为了‘试水’，如果不是实际竞选的话，”竞选法律中心(Campaign Legal Center)的高级顾问保罗·S·瑞安(Paul S. Ryan)说。该中心就布什早期的筹款活动及开支向司法部提出投诉。
Kristy Campbell, a spokeswoman for Mr. Bush, said the travel expenses were covered by Right to Rise PAC, a political committee of which Mr. Bush was “honorary chairman,” and were not related to his presidential bid. “Governor Bush has attended events as a featured guest for organizations that have a mission and philosophy he shares,” Ms. Campbell said.
布什发言人克里斯蒂·坎贝尔(Kristy Campbell)表示，差旅费由崛起权利政治行动委员会(Right to Rise PAC)支付，这个由布什担任“名誉主席”的政治委员会与他的总统竞选活动无关。坎贝尔表示，“布什州长以相关组织的特邀嘉宾的身份参加活动，这些组织与布什拥有共同的任务和理念。”
Mr. Jindal reported only $21,000 in spending before his official announcement on June 23, mostly on facility rentals shortly before the announcement. Yet before that date, the Louisiana governor took high-profile trips to New Hampshire and Iowa to explore a possible run.
金达尔在6月23日正式宣布参加竞选前，上报称只有2.1万美元的开支，其中大部分用于支付宣布消息前不久的设备租赁费用。但在此之前，金达尔高调前往新罕布什尔州和艾奥瓦州，为竞选探路。
Curt Anderson, the chief strategist for Mr. Jindal’s campaign, said in an interview that those trips were paid for by two other groups, one of them a nonprofit policy organization that Mr. Jindal founded in 2013. The campaign’s own low burn rate, Mr. Anderson suggested, was merely an indication of Mr. Jindal’s thrift.
金达尔的首席策略师库尔特·安德森(Curt Anderson)接受采访时表示，差旅费由其他两个组织支付，其中一个是金达尔在2013年创立的非营利政策组织。安德森表示，竞选团队花费较少恰好说明金达尔非常节俭。