WASHINGTON — President Obama said on Thursday that the United States would deploy up to 300 military advisers to Iraq to help its beleaguered security forces fend off Sunni militants, edging the United States back into a conflict that Mr. Obama thought he had left behind.
华盛顿——周四，奥巴马总统表示，美国将向伊拉克派遣300名军事顾问，帮助陷入困境的当地安全部队抵挡逊尼派武装分子。此举将使得美国逐步退回到伊拉克冲突中，而奥巴马曾认为他已彻底摆脱了伊拉克问题。
Mr. Obama also said the United States was gathering intelligence on the positions of militant fighters to identify targets, and added, “We will be prepared to take targeted and precise military action if we conclude the situation on the ground requires it.”
奥巴马还称，美国正在搜集关于武装分子位置的情报，以识别目标。他说，“我们会做好准备，一旦断定当地局势确有需要，我们就能采取目标明确、定位精准的军事行动。”
The president sent a strong warning to the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, the Shiite leader whose policies have fueled the deepening sectarian tensions with the Sunni Arab minority. American officials have privately concluded that Mr. Maliki cannot head a national unity government.
奥巴马总统向伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)发出了强烈的警告。这名什叶派领导人的政策加剧了和逊尼派阿拉伯少数群体之间的宗派紧张。美国官员已私下里得出结论，认为马利基无法领导一个民族团结的政府。
“The test is before him and other Iraqi leaders as we speak,” Mr. Obama said. “Right now they can make a series of decisions. Regardless of what’s happened in the past, right now is a moment where the fate of Iraq hangs in the balance.”
奥巴马称，“我们说话的当口，他和其他伊拉克领导人正面临考验。现在，他们可以做出一系列的决定。不管过去发生了什么，这一刻的伊拉克可谓前途未卜。”
Mr. Obama insisted that the United States would not press for Mr. Maliki’s replacement by a new leader. “It’s not our job to choose Iraq’s leaders,” he said. But he added, “Right now, there’s too much suspicion, there’s too much mistrust.”
奥巴马坚称，美国不会强迫用新的领导人替换马利基。“选择伊拉克领导人不是我们的职责。”不过他还说，“现在，存在着太多的猜忌，太多的不信任。”
Mr. Obama said he still believed that the solution to Iraq’s strife was political, not military. He said he was sending Secretary of State John Kerry to Europe and the Middle East this weekend to build support among Iraq’s Arab neighbors for a multisectarian government in Baghdad.
奥巴马表示，他依然相信，政治途径才是解决伊拉克冲突的答案，而非军事途径。他说，将派遣国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)于本周末前往欧洲和中东，以争取伊拉克的阿拉伯邻国支持在巴格达建立一个多宗派的政府。
The president also suggested that there was a constructive role for Iran, Iraq’s Shiite neighbor, to play in the crisis if, he said, “it is sending the same message to the Iraqi government that we are sending.” But he warned that Iran would be a destructive force if it supplied “armed forces on behalf of the Shia.”
总统还表示，什叶派主导的伊拉克邻国伊朗可以在此次危机中发挥建设性作用，前提是“伊朗向伊拉克政府发出和我们同样的讯息”。不过他警告，如果伊朗“代表什叶派”派遣“武装力量”，那它就会成为破坏性的力量。
Mr. Obama emphasized again that he would not send combat troops to Iraq, but he said the United States would help the Iraqis “take the fight” to the militants, who he said pose a threat to Iraq’s stability and to American interests, because Iraq could become a sanctuary for terrorists who could strike the United States or its allies.
奥巴马再次强调，他不会向伊拉克派遣地面作战部队，不过他说，美国会帮助伊拉克和武装分子“作战”。他认为，鉴于伊拉克可能会变成袭击美国及其盟友的恐怖分子的温床，所以这些武装分子对伊拉克的稳定和美国的利益构成了威胁。
“It is in our national security interest not to see an all-out civil war in Iraq,” Mr. Obama said to reporters in the White House briefing room, after a meeting of his National Security Council.
在与国家安全委员会举行会议后，奥巴马在白宫新闻发布厅对记者们表示，“避免伊拉克发生全面战争符合美国的国家安全利益。”
The president said the additional military advisers would staff two joint operations centers, in Baghdad and outside, in which the United States and Iraqi forces would share intelligence and planning.
奥巴马总统表示，增派的军事顾问将配备到两个分别位于巴格达和巴格达郊区的联合行动中心。美国和伊拉克军队会在那里共享情报和制定计划。
Mr. Obama also said the United States would supply Iraqi forces with technology and equipment, drawing on the Counterterrorism Partnership Fund that he announced in a foreign policy speech at the United States Military Academy at West Point.
奥巴马还表示，美国将利用他在西点美国军事学院(United States Military Academy)发表外交政策讲话时宣布成立的反恐合作基金(Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund)，向伊拉克军队提供技术和设备。
The American military advisers will be based not only in Baghdad but also in northern Iraq, where the militants have made their greatest advances. And they will help not only with intelligence-gathering, but also with the planning of military operations against the militants.
除了巴格达，美国军事顾问还会部署在武装分子取得最大进展的伊拉克北部。而且他们不仅将协助搜集情报，还将协助制定打击武装分子的军事行动计划。
Still, Mr. Obama invoked the painful legacy of the Iraq war in pledging to approach the crisis with caution and restraint.
在承诺将谨慎、克制地应对这次危机时，奥巴马还重提了伊拉克战争的苦果。
“Recent days have reminded us of the deep scars left by America’s war in Iraq,” he said, adding that the United States needed to “ask hard questions before we take action abroad, particularly military action.”
他说，“最近这些天让我们想起了美国在伊拉克战争中留下的深深伤痕，”还表示“在我们在国外采取行动、尤其是军事行动前，应该思考一些严峻的问题”。
Mr. Obama also said he was reluctant to get drawn deeper into the civil war in neighboring Syria, where many of the fighters from the Sunni militant group, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, originated. He cited the difficulties in deciding whether to arm members of the opposition.
奥巴马还表示，他不愿被进一步卷入伊拉克邻国叙利亚的内战。逊尼派武装团体伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)的许多武装分子均来自那里。他说原因是决定是否武装反对派成员涉及诸多困难。
“If you have former farmers or teachers or pharmacists who now are taking up opposition against a battle-hardened regime,” he said, “how quickly can you get them trained?” The statement came a day after he consulted with congressional leaders at the White House, and after Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. spoke with Iraqi leaders.
“如果现在是一些原本为农民、老师或药剂师的人在组成反对力量，对抗一个久经沙场的政权，”他说，“你多快能把他们训练好？”在发表这一声明的前一天，他在白宫咨询了国会领袖，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)也与伊拉克领导人进行了交谈。
Among those participating in Thursday’s national security meeting with Mr. Obama, according to the White House, were Mr. Biden; Secretary of State John Kerry; Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel; Denis R. McDonough, the White House chief of staff; Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser; Samantha Power, the ambassador to the United Nations; and W. Neil Eggleston, the White House counsel.
据白宫称，周四参加奥巴马的国家安全会议的人包括拜登、国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)、国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)、白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)、国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)、美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)和白宫顾问W·尼尔·埃格尔斯顿(W. Neil Eggleston)。
Others in the meeting were James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence; John O. Brennan, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency; Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Lisa O. Monaco, the president’s counterterrorism adviser; Antony J. Blinken and Benjamin J. Rhodes, both deputy national security advisers; and Jake Sullivan, the vice president’s national security adviser.
其他与会者为国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)、中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)局长约翰·O·布伦南(John O. Brennan)、参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen.Martin E. Dempsey)、总统反恐顾问莉萨·O·莫纳科(Lisa O. Monaco)、副国家安全顾问安东尼·J·布林肯 (Antony J. Blinken)和本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)以及副总统的国家安全顾问杰克·苏利文(Jake Sullivan)。