WASHINGTON — The Obama administration on Wednesday announced a long-delayed environmental regulation to curb emissions of ozone, a smog-causing pollutant linked to asthma, heart disease and premature death.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府周三宣布了一份耽搁已久的环境监管规定，该规定旨在限制臭氧排放。臭氧是一种能够造成雾霾的污染物，与哮喘、心脏病和过早死亡有关。
The sweeping regulation, which are aimed at smog caused by power plants and factories across the country, particularly in the Midwest, is the latest in a series of Environmental Protection Agency controls on air pollution that wafts from smokestacks and tailpipes. Such regulations, released under the authority of the Clean Air Act, have become a hallmark of President Obama’s administration.
这项全面的监管规定针对的是全美，尤其是中西部地区的发电站和工厂导致的雾霾。美国国家环境保护局（Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA）已经对从烟囱到排气管排放的空气污染物实施了一系列管控，而上述规定就是其中最新的一例。这些规定是在《清洁空气法》的授权下发布的，它们已经成为奥巴马政府的一个标志。
Environmentalists and public health advocates have praised the E.P.A. rules as a powerful environmental legacy. Republicans, manufacturers and the fossil fuel industry have sharply criticized them as an example of costly government overreach. The National Association of Manufacturers has called the proposal “the most expensive regulation ever.”
环保人士和公共卫生倡导者对EPA的上述规定表示赞赏，称它是一份强大的环保遗产。共和党人、生产商和化石燃料行业则发起了强烈的批评，称该规定是政府成本高昂的过度监管的证明。美国全国制造商协会(National Association of Manufacturers)称，该提案是“史上最昂贵的监管规定”。
The proposed regulation would lower the current threshold for ozone pollution to a range of 65 to 70 parts per billion, from 75 parts per billion. That range is less stringent than the standard of 60 parts per billion sought by environmental groups, but the E.P.A. proposal would also seek public comment on a 60 parts-per-billion plan, keeping open the possibility that the final rule could be stricter.
这项监管提案将把目前75ppb的臭氧污染上限降到65ppb至70ppb之间。这个区间没有一些环保组织希望的60ppb的上限严格，但EPA的提案也会征求公众对60ppb的方案的看法，意味着最终的决定有可能会更加严格。
The agency estimates that the new regulation would by 2025 prevent from 320,000 to 960,000 asthma attacks in children, and from 330,000 to 1 million missed school days. It also estimates that by 2025 the rule would prevent 750 to 4,300 premature deaths, 1,400 to 4,300 asthma-related emergency room visits and 65,000 to 180,000 missed workdays.
EPA估计，到2025年，新的规定将能够减少32万到96万儿童哮喘病例的发作，以及33万天到100万天的学生旷课。该机构还估计，到2025年，该规定将减少750到4300个过早死亡案例，1400到4300个与哮喘有关的急诊病历，以及6.5万到18万天的旷工。
The regulation would come with a high cost to industry, which the E.P.A. estimates would be $3.9 billion in 2025, using a standard of 70 parts per billion. The cost would be $15 billion in 2025 at a standard of 65 parts per billion. (The E.P.A. chose 2025 as an example because that is when the agency expects the regulation to be fully in force.)
这项监管规定将为行业带来极大的成本，EPA估计，以70ppb的排放上限计算，在2025年所耗费的成本为39亿美元，以65ppb的排放标准计算，成本为150亿美元。（EPA选择以2025年为例，是因为预计规定到那时将充分实施。）
The agency estimates that the economic benefits of the rule – measured in avoided asthma attacks, heart attacks, missed school and work days and premature deaths – would significantly outweigh the costs. It calculates the benefits at $6.4 billion to $13 billion annually in 2025 for a standard of 70 parts per billion and $19 billion to $38 billion annually in 2025 for a standard of 65 parts per billion.
EPA估计，该规定产生的经济利益——通过得以避免的哮喘、心脏病、旷课、旷工和过早死亡来计算——远远高于它的成本。根据该机构的统计，如果执行70ppb的标准，它在2025年将产生64亿美元到130亿美元的经济利益，如果执行65ppb的标准，经济利益为19亿美元到38亿美元。
“Bringing ozone pollution standards in line with the latest science will clean up our air, improve access to crucial air quality information, and protect those most at-risk,'’ the E.P.A. administrator, Gina McCarthy, said in a statement. “It empowers the American people with updated air quality information to protect our loved ones — because whether we work or play outdoors – we deserve to know the air we breathe is safe.”
“让臭氧污染标准与最新的科技保持同步，能够让我们的空气更清洁，更好地获取重要的空气质量信息，对最脆弱的群体进行保护，”EPA局长吉娜·麦卡锡(Gina McCarthy)在一份声明中说。“它让美国人民获得了最新的空气质量信息，并因此有能力保护我们爱的人——因为无论我们是在工作还是在室外玩耍——我们都应当知道我们呼吸的空气是安全的。”
Next year, the E.P.A. is expected to make final two more historic Clean Air Act rules aimed at cutting planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. Those rules, which are intended to curb pollutants that contribute to climate change, could lead to the shutdown of hundreds of power plants and freeze construction of future coal plants.
EPA明年预计会根据《清洁空气法》的授权，再敲定两项具有历史意义的规定，目的在于削减火力发电厂的温室气体排放。这些规定旨在控制造成气候变化的污染物，可能会导致数百家发电厂关停，并停止再修建火电厂。
The Republican-majority Congress, to be led by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the incoming majority leader, has vowed to block or overturn the entire group of rules. In a separate development, the Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to take up a challenge led by industry groups against another E.P.A. rule intended to curb emissions of mercury from coal plants.
肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)即将出任多数党领袖，执掌共和党占多数的国会。麦康奈尔已承诺阻止或推翻这一整套规定。另一动向是，最高法院周二同意受理行业组织对EPA另一项规定提起的诉讼。涉案规定意在控制火电厂的汞排放。
“We’re facing a series of regulations, and the cumulative cost of compliance and the burden of permitting is significant,” said Cal Dooley, president of the American Chemistry Council, a group which has lobbied aggressively against the rules. “An industry such as ours is poised to make significant investments in growth, but these regulations make that harder.”
“我们面临着一系列条例，遵守这些条例的累计成本和获得许可带来的负担很明显，”美国化学理事会(American Chemistry Council)会长卡尔·杜利(Cal Dooley)说。“我们这样的行业准备为增长做出重大贡献，但这些条例让这么做变得更难。”
The standard for ozone was last set in 2008 by the Bush administration at a level of 75 parts per billion, above the range of 60 to 70 parts per billion recommended by the E.P.A.'s scientific advisory panel at the time, although never enacted. Environmental and public health groups challenged the Bush standard in court, saying it would endanger human health and had been tainted by political interference. Smog levels have declined sharply over the last 40 years, but each incremental improvement comes at a significant cost to business and government.
臭氧含量75ppb的标准是布什政府在2008年制定的，高于EPA当时的科学顾问委员会建议的60ppb到70ppb的水平，但该标准一直未颁布。环境和公共卫生组织在法庭上挑战布什政府制定的这一标准，称其会危及人类健康，且受到了政治干涉的影响。过去40年，雾霾水平已大幅下降，但每一个渐进式的进步，都会让行业和政府付出巨大代价。
The E.P.A. had planned to release the new ozone rule in August of 2011, but as Republicans and powerful industry groups prepared to go on attack against the plan, Mr. Obama decided to delay its release, fearing that opposition to the regulation would hurt his re-election chances in 2012.
EPA原计划在2011年8月公布新的臭氧规定，但随着共和党和势力强大的行业组织准备继续攻击该计划，奥巴马决定延迟公布，担心该条例会影响他2012年赢得连任的机会。