With private cybersecurity firms linking North Korea to recent computer attacks that absconded with at least $81 million, the Treasury Department moved on Wednesday to choke off Pyongyang’s remaining access to the global financial system, designating the country a “primary” money launderer.
在私人网络安全公司将朝鲜同最近导致至少8100万美元被盗的多起计算机攻击联系在一起的情况下，美国财政部周三认定朝鲜是“首要”洗钱者并采取行动，意在切断平壤剩下的进入全球金融系统的途径。
The Treasury, employing sanctions techniques that helped pressure Iran to give up much of its nuclear program, said it would seek to impose what are known as secondary sanctions against the reclusive communist country. That means that it could cut off from the American financial system any bank or company that conducts banking transactions with Pyongyang.
财政部表示，将寻求对这个孤立的共产主义国家实行所谓的二级制裁。这意味着财政部可能会切断美国金融系统同一切与平壤有银行业务往来的银行或公司之间的联系。这种制裁方式曾帮助向伊朗施压，迫使该国放弃其核计划中的大量内容。
As a practical matter, that would largely affect Chinese banks, which facilitate North Korea’s financial transactions with Beijing, its largest trading partner. It could also affect some institutions in the Chinese regions of Macau and Hong Kong, as well as in Singapore, where Pyongyang has often gone to hide the true nature of its banking activities, and to pay for missiles, nuclear fuel and the huge infrastructure it has built around those programs.
从实际层面出发，受此影响的主要是中国的银行。它们为朝鲜与中国之间的金融往来提供支持。中国是朝鲜最大的贸易伙伴。此举还可能会影响中国澳门和香港地区，以及新加坡的一些机构。平壤经常利用这些地方掩盖其银行活动的本质，并通过它们支付导弹、核燃料和围绕这些项目修建的大型基础设施的费用。
The designation, officials said, was in the works long before evidence emerged linking the country’s aggressive hackers to the bank thefts, which involved stealing the credentials that banks use to access the Swift system, a global network that thousands of financial firms use to authorize payments from one account to another.
官员称，在把朝鲜咄咄逼人的黑客同多起银行被盗事件联系在一起的证据出现之前很久，认定工作就在准备过程中了。银行失窃事件涉及盗取银行用来访问Swift系统的资格凭证。该系统是一个全球性的网络，成千上万家金融企业用它来授权账户间的付款业务。
In interviews, administration officials said they were still sorting through the evidence that North Korea was involved, and left open the possibility that the thieves deliberately left evidence implicating the country to throw investigators off their trail. It could be months, the officials said, before they reach any conclusions, and in the end the perpetrators of the attack may not be definitively known.
奥巴马政府的官员在接受采访时表示，他们仍在梳理朝鲜参与此事的证据，窃贼也有可能是故意留下指向朝鲜的证据，以此来迷惑调查人员。官员称，他们或许需要几个月时间才能得出结论，而且可能到最后也还是无法确认这起攻击的发起者。
Only once — in the case of North Korea’s attack on Sony Pictures Entertainment, which was promoting a movie depicting the assassination of Kim Jong-un, the country’s unpredictable young leader — has President Obama publicly accused another country of using computer code to wreak havoc in the United States.
只有一次，奥巴马总统公开指责了另一个国家利用计算机代码在美国搞破坏。当时，索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures Entertainment)正在宣传一部关于暗杀金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的电影，遭到了朝鲜的网络攻击。金正恩是年轻的朝鲜领导人，常有出人意料的举动。
In this case, the sanctions were proposed most immediately because of a Treasury investigation that concluded North Korea uses hard currency to finance its nuclear and missile programs. The department invoked a section of the Patriot Act to ban banks from processing any banking transaction that runs through North Korea.
这一次，则是马上就引发了制裁建议，因为财政部的调查做出结论，朝鲜在使用硬通货来为其核计划和导弹计划供应资金。该部门以《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)的一节为依据，要禁止银行处理资金流经朝鲜的任何交易。
It is hard to assess how much the action will hurt North Korea. Such sanctions against financial institutions doing business with Iran proved effective because Tehran had billions of dollars in monthly oil and other energy exports that could be choked off; North Korea has none. Oftentimes Pyongyang deals in cash. Until a few years ago it was one of the largest counterfeiters of $100 bills. But that once-lucrative fraud was largely cut off by the redesign of the $100 bill.
很难评估这些措施会对朝鲜造成这样的打击。事实证明，禁止金融机构与伊朗做生意的制裁效果很好，因为它可以阻断德黑兰每个月数以亿计的石油等能源出口款项；但朝鲜没有这种收入。平壤通常用现金交易。直到几年之前，朝鲜还是百元美钞最大的造假者之一。但是，在百元美钞重新设计之后，这种财源滚滚的欺诈行为就在很大程度上被杜绝了。
The key test will be the reaction of the Chinese. American officials will have a chance to find out next week: Secretary of State John Kerry and Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew are traveling to Beijing for the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, where the isolation of North Korea will be a major subject of discussion. China voted for the latest United Nations sanctions.
关键还要看中国的反应。美国官员下周就有机会搞清楚这个问题：国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和财政部长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)将前往北京参加中美战略与经济对话(Strategic and Economic Dialogue)。在会上，孤立朝鲜将是一个主要议题。中国对联合国最近的一次制裁决议投了赞成票。
Underlying the financial action was the United States’ desire to respond to North Korea’s third nuclear weapons test, conducted in January, which the country said was its first test of a hydrogen bomb. (There is no evidence that it was, in fact, a hydrogen weapon, which increases the magnitude of the blast.) More recently Pyongyang has attempted, and failed, to launch a Musudan intermediate-range missile. It is based on an early Soviet model, which was launched from a submarine, but the repeated failures have embarrassed Mr. Kim and undermined his effort to convince the world that his nuclear missile program is steaming ahead quickly.
在实施金融制裁的背后，是美国对朝鲜进行第三次核试验做出反应的渴望。这次试验发生在今年1月，朝鲜称这是该国第一次试爆氢弹。（没有证据表明它真的是氢弹，后者的威胁程度更大。）最近，平壤又多次尝试发射“舞水端”(Musudan)中程导弹，均以失败告终。这种导弹是在苏联早先一款潜射导弹的基础上改良而来。不过，多次试射失败令金正恩颇为难堪，也有损于他一直以来的努力，即让全世界相信他的核导弹计划在飞速向前发展。
The bigger mystery is whether Mr. Kim is also trying to show that he can undermine the global financial system, his best way of getting back at the West and his Asian neighbors for their support of sanctions. Two cybersecurity firms identified Pyongyang as the culprit behind a series of cyberattacks against Asian banks, including the theft that spirited $81 million from the central bank of Bangladesh’s account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
更大的谜团在于，金正恩是否也在试图显示他可以破坏全球金融系统。这是他对西方及亚洲邻国支持制裁措施进行报复的最佳方式。两家网络安全公司认定平壤是亚洲多家银行遭受一系列网络攻击的罪魁祸首，其中包括从孟加拉国中央银行在纽约联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of New York)的账户盗取8100万美元。
Private security researchers analyzing those thefts say that unique digital fingerprints in the attackers’ code match those of the code used in cyberattacks against Sony in 2014 and South Korean banks and broadcasting companies in 2013. The Sony hack destroyed 70 percent of the firm’s computers.
分析这些盗窃事件的私人安全研究人士表示，攻击者的代码中包含着独一无二的数字指纹，与2014年针对索尼、2013年针对韩国多家银行和广播公司发起的网络攻击中的代码一致。索尼遭受的攻击破坏了该公司70%的计算机。
South Korea has blamed North Korea for the attacks on its firms. Elements of the code in those attacks closely track some of the code found in the more recent bank thefts.
韩国也指责本国企业受到的网络攻击是朝鲜所为。这些攻击行动中的代码片段与最近多起银行失窃事件中的一些代码存在紧密联系。
Banks in the United States are already prohibited from doing business with financial institutions in North Korea. But the recommended rules would require them to perform additional due diligence to ensure they are not inadvertently transacting with North Korean financial institutions or the Pyongyang government through shell companies or other fictitious entities.
美国已经禁止境内银行与朝鲜的金融机构进行生意往来。不过，为符合新提议的规定，各家银行需要做额外的尽职调查，以确保自己不会经由壳公司或其他虚假实体不经意地与朝鲜金融机构或平壤政府发生交易。
The rules are the result of a monthslong effort by the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to determine whether North Korea is a haven for money laundering.
为确定朝鲜是否为洗钱天堂，财政部金融犯罪执法局(Financial Crimes Enforcement Network)做出了长达数月的努力。这些新规定就是这项努力带来的结果。
With that designation established, the Treasury secretary is able to take aggressive measures to cut off the country’s access to the United States financial system.
做出上述认定之后，财政部长就可以采取强力措施，以切断朝鲜进入美国金融系统的途径。
Other countries have also been stepping up efforts to isolate North Korea. In March, the United Nations Security Council said its members had 90 days to sever banking relationships with North Korean financial institutions.
其他一些国家也在加大孤立朝鲜的努力。今年3月，联合国安理会表示，其成员有90天的时间可以用来切断与朝鲜金融机构的业务关系。
The recent attacks on Asian banks exposed new vulnerabilities in the way banks move money around the world.
亚洲多家银行最近遭袭，暴露出银行在全世界转移资金的方式存在一些新的薄弱之处。
North Korea’s possible involvement in those cyberattacks has raised alarms about Pyongyang’s ability to exploit Swift, the global bank messaging network. But the attack did not go to the core of the Swift system; instead, it was analogous to stealing a credit card number to post a phony transaction in the Visa or MasterCard system.
朝鲜涉嫌这些网络攻击行动的可能性，令外界对平壤利用全球性银行通讯系统Swift的能力产生担忧。不过，这次攻击没有进入Swift系统的核心部分，而是类似盗取信用卡号码，然后在Visa或万事达(MasterCard)的系统里请求虚假交易。