ATLANTA — Even before someone carefully removed a windowpane from a secluded Buckhead home here one rainy June night and slipped away with a 1734 silver mug that had belonged to George II, it was clear to detectives that a meticulous thief with a singular obsession was stealing the great silver pieces of the Old South.
亚特兰大——在6月的一个雨夜，有人小心翼翼地从巴克海特的一座僻静房屋摘掉了一扇窗玻璃，窃走了一个曾属于乔治二世的1734年铸造的纯银大杯。即使在这次偷盗发生之前，侦探们就已经知道，有一个计划周密、且有单一癖好的盗贼，在偷老南方的珍贵银器。
For months, exquisite sterling silver collections had been disappearing, taken in the dead of night from historic homes in Charleston, S.C., and the wealthy enclaves of Belle Meade, Tenn. Nothing else was touched.
几个月以来，在南卡罗莱纳州查尔斯顿的历史老宅、或田纳西州贝勒密德的富裕居住区中，精致的纯银藏品常常在深夜不翼而飞。而房子里的其他东西则一点也没被碰过。
The police in different states did not at first connect the thefts, some of which initially went unnoticed even by the owners. But as the burglaries piled up, a retired New Jersey detective watching reports on the Internet recognized a familiar pattern.
几个不同州的警察最初并没有将这些盗窃事件联系在一起，一些失主甚至一开始也没有察觉到东西被偷。但随着偷窃案件的累积，新泽西州一名退休侦探在互联网上看报道时，注意到了一个熟悉的作案模式。
He called an Atlanta detective and said, “Let me explain how your burglaries occurred.”
他给亚特兰大的侦探打电话说，“让我给你讲讲那些入室偷盗案是怎么发生的。”
Early Monday, outside an apartment building in the tiny northern Florida town of Hilliard, the police arrested Blane Nordahl, 51, the man they believe is connected not only to the recent Southern silver burglaries but also to 30 years’ worth of antique silver thefts in several states.
8月26日的一大早，警察在佛罗里达州北部的小镇希利厄德的一栋公寓楼外，逮捕了51岁的布兰·诺达尔(Blane Nordahl)。警方认为此人不仅与最近发生在南方的银器盗窃案有关，而且与30年来几个州里发生的银质古董盗窃案有关。
He was charged with burglaries in Atlanta and will most likely face charges in other states.
他在亚特兰大被指控犯有入室行窃罪，很可能也会在其他州面临指控。
“I’m just relieved it’s over,” said Lonnie Mason, the retired New Jersey detective who made a career out of chasing — and twice capturing — Mr. Nordahl, whose skill as a thief is so notorious it has earned him his own Wikipedia page and the nickname “burglar to the stars.”
新泽西州退休侦探洛尼·梅森(Lonnie Mason)说，“这事了结了，我也就放心了。”追踪诺达尔（并两次抓获他）差不多成了梅森的职业。诺达尔的盗窃手段如此臭名昭著，以至于维基百科上有对他的专门介绍，他的绰号是“明星家的窃贼。”
In one of the biggest recent hauls in which Mr. Nordahl is a suspect, a thief disabled the alarm at the Cooleemee Plantation House in North Carolina and walked away with silver spoons forged by Paul Revere and a coffee and tea set that a slave had once buried for safekeeping when Union soldiers moved through during the Civil War.
在诺达尔涉嫌参与的一起最近发生的大盗案中，盗贼让北卡罗莱纳州的库利米种植园宅邸(Cooleemee Plantation House)的报警器失灵，偷走了保罗·里维尔(Paul Revere)锻造的银勺子，以及一套银质的咖啡和茶具，当内战中北方军队士兵经过此地时，一个奴隶曾把这套器具埋藏保护起来。
Detectives who chased Mr. Nordahl for decades say he is responsible for crimes that have had him in and out of prison since the 1980s. He might ultimately be responsible, they say, for more than 500 burglaries that netted him several million dollars’ worth of some of the best domestic silver pieces in the country.
几十年来一直在追踪诺达尔的侦探们说，自20世纪80年以来，诺达尔曾因其罪行几次入狱。他们说，他可能最多干了500多起入室盗窃案，盗取了总价值为数百万美元的美国最好的家用银器。
They include 120 pairs of salt and pepper shakers taken from Ivana Trump’s Greenwich, Conn., home in 1996 and the priceless collection of period silver in the Edgewater mansion in the Hudson Valley where Richard Hampton Jenrette, a Wall Street financier and restorer of historic homes, was robbed in 2002.
赃物中有1996年从伊瓦纳·特伦普(Ivana Trump)在康涅狄格州格林尼治的家中偷来的120对盐和胡椒作料瓶，还有来自位于哈德逊谷的埃奇沃特宅邸(Edgewater mansion)中的无价古董银器收藏品，这些是在2002年从华尔街金融家及历史老宅修复者理查德·汉普顿·詹雷特(Richard Hampton Jenrette)的房子盗来的。
Mr. Nordahl’s first burglary arrest was in New Jersey in 1983. He has had dozens since.
诺达尔第一次因盗窃被捕是1983年，在新泽西州。那之后他几十次被捕。
“He doesn’t abuse drugs and he doesn’t abuse alcohol,” said Mr. Mason, in an interview Monday from his home near the Jersey Shore. “This is his high. This and trying to beat the police.”
梅森周一在泽西海岸附近的家中接受采访时说，“他不吸毒，不酗酒。这是他的乐趣。盗窃并与警察较量是他的乐趣。”
One of a string of girlfriends whom the police persuaded to help them pursue Mr. Nordahl told Mr. Mason that “he would be 80 years old and still running down the street with his cane and a piece of silver in his hand. He is just fascinated with this stuff.”
警方曾劝说诺达尔的多名女朋友为追捕他提供帮助，其中一位告诉梅森，“就算他80岁了，他还会一手拄拐、一手拿着件银器在街上走。他就是这对这东西着迷。”
Mr. Nordahl is barely 5 foot 4 with a muscular build and the ability to squeeze into homes through small spaces. Over the years he developed a routine that he rarely varied, the police say, tracking his targets through architectural magazines, in libraries and by scouting rich neighborhoods.
诺达尔身高不足163厘米，肌肉结实，能从很小的空隙中钻进别人家里。警方称，多年来他已经形成了一个几乎不变的固定模式，通过图书馆里的建筑杂志以及巡视有钱的社区来追踪目标。
He learned to gently pry the putty from windows and disable alarms, the police say, often stacking molding from a door neatly nearby or replacing the glass so victims would sometimes not know they were burglarized until a holiday rolled around and it was time to pull out the good silver.
警方称，他会小心地除掉窗户上的腻子，并让报警器失灵，他经常会从附近的门上取下木贴边整齐地贴回来，或者重新换好玻璃，所以失主有时不会察觉到自己被盗，直到节日到来，需要拿出好银器时才发现。
Mr. Nordahl, whose father, David, is a noted painter, has a deep knowledge of the artistic and cultural value of silver, the police said. In previous cases, he was specific about his haul, leaving behind other valuables and knives with hollow silver handles or trays made of silver plate.
警方说，诺达尔的父亲戴维(David)是一位小有名气的画家，诺达尔对银器的艺术和文化价值有很深的了解。在以前的案子中，他偷的东西很具体，不会动其他的贵重物品，也不拿空心手柄的银质刀具或镀银的托盘。
Those signatures are what made Mr. Mason think that the nation’s most notorious silver thief had gotten back into the game after being released on parole in 2010.
这些作案特点让梅森意识到美国最著名的银器窃贼在2010年假释后又开始重新作案。
Mr. Nordahl, who had been in prison six years, had headed to Florida, where he had a sister. So Mr. Mason would occasionally search for reports of silver thefts in the South. In February, he found a rash of silver thefts in the Atlanta area and other states. He set to work.
诺达尔在狱中度过六年后，去了姐姐所在的佛罗里达州。所以梅森会偶尔检索南方发生的银器失窃的报道。2月份，看到亚特兰大地区和其他州发生了接二连三的银器失窃案后，他开始工作了。
Whether any of the victims will ever see their precious silver again is on the minds of many, Mr. Mason said.
梅森说，很多失主关心的是他们会不会再看到自己珍贵的银器。
Probably not. In the past, he said, Mr. Nordahl used an extensive fencing network and shipped his goods off almost immediately. The police suspect that much that he may have stolen has disappeared into the secondary market for antique silver either in the United States or Europe, where a set of spoons made by Paul Revere would not raise the same suspicions as well-known paintings.
很可能不会。梅森说，诺达尔利用一个广泛的销赃网络，几乎马上就把盗来的物品运走。警方怀疑他偷来的大部分物品都已经消失在美国或者欧洲的二手古董银器市场上了，在那里，保罗·里维尔制作的一套勺子并不会像名画那样引起怀疑。
Although several pieces of evidence were seized in connection with the arrest, it was not clear whether any of them are some of the most valuable items.
虽然这次逮捕缴获了一些物证，但还不清楚它们是包括那些最贵重的物品。
Mr. Mason said detectives did not want to raise the hopes of victims, of whom there are hundreds.
梅森说侦探不想让失主抱有更大的希望，失窃的人多达几百。
One of them is Beverly DuBose III, an Atlanta collector known as Bo, who with his father amassed what is considered the largest collection of Civil War artifacts in the country.
其中一个失主是贝弗利·杜博斯三世(Beverly DuBose III)，他是亚特兰大的一位著名收藏家，人称博(Bo)，据说，他和他的父亲拥有美国内战时期手工制品的最大收藏。
His own security cameras, and even the ones down the street that protect the home of the filmmaker Tyler Perry, were not able to capture an image of the thief, but detectives told him they believe Mr. Nordahl crept in while Mr. DuBose and his wife were sleeping that stormy night in June and stole more than $77,000 worth of silver, including the mug connected to George II.
虽然他自家的监控摄像头以及街上监控制片人泰勒·佩里(Tyler Perry)家的摄像头都没有拍到窃贼，但是侦探告诉他，他们认为，在6月的那个风雨之夜，当杜博斯与妻子熟睡时，窃贼溜进他家，盗走了价值超过7.7万美元（约合47.1万元人民币）的银器，其中包括那个与乔治二世有关的大杯。
Mr. DuBose now has a better security system, and he turns on the motion detector when he goes to bed.
杜博斯现已启用了更好的安全系统，而且睡觉时还打开运动觉察器。
But he does not have much hope he will get his goods back, and knowing he may have been robbed by one of the best in the business is little comfort.
但是，他对器皿失而复得不抱太大希望，知道偷盗者可能是行业翘楚，也不能给他带来多少安慰。
“To be here asleep and have it happen, you realize how good he really is,” he said. “But it’s a small consolation.”
他说，“我在家中睡着，还发生了偷窃，可见他的身手有多么不凡。但这只是个小小的安慰。”