MADISON, Wisconsin — Last week, the United States once again walked up to the precipice of a debt default, and once again the world wonders why any country, much less the world’s largest economy, would endanger its financial reputation and thus its ability to borrow.
威斯康星州麦迪逊——上周，美国再次濒临债务违约，世界也再次陷入困惑：为什么有国家，更别说是世界上最大的经济体，会拿自己的财政声誉冒险，进而危及自己的举债能力？
Though a potential global financial crisis was averted at the last minute, one notable development has been a string of warnings by Chinese officials. Prime Minister Li Keqiang told Secretary of State John Kerry that he was “highly concerned” about a possible default. Yi Gang, deputy governor of China’s central bank, warned that America “should have the wisdom to solve this problem as soon as possible.” An opinion essay in Xinhua, the state-run media agency, called “ for the befuddled world to start considering building a de-Americanized world.”
尽管一场潜在的全球金融危机在最后一刻得以避免，但值得注意的是，中国官员发出了一系列警告。中国总理李克强告诉美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)，他“高度关注”美国债务上限问题。中国央行副行长易纲则警告说，美国“应该有智慧尽快化解美债违约风险”。中国国有媒体新华社的一篇评论文章呼吁，这也许是“这个糊涂世界开始考虑去美国化的好时机”。
These statements, unusually blunt coming from the Chinese, show that repeated, avoidable crises threaten the privileged position of the U.S. as issuer of the world’s main reserve currency and (until now) risk-free debt.
中国的上述异常直率的言论显示出，反复出现的、且可以避免的危机正威胁着美国作为世界主要储备货币和（到目前为止）无风险债券发行者的优越地位。
It is unlikely that China would provoke a sudden, international financial calamity — for instance, by unloading U.S. Treasury securities and other government debt. Nonetheless, the process of repeated crises and temporary reprieves will only solidify the Chinese government’s determination to diversify its holdings away from dollar-denominated assets. Moreover, these crises provide ammunition to advocates within the Chinese government for expanding the role of the renminbi in international markets. Both of these trends will erode the ability of the United States to issue debt at super-low interest rates, and accelerate the ascent of China’s currency.
中国不太可能挑起一个突如其来的、国际性的金融灾难——比如，通过大量出售美国的国债和其他政府债券做到这一点。然而，美国政府不断地陷入危机，而且每次都只能拿出暂时性的解决办法，这只会强化中国政府售出美元资产，并令其资产多样化的决心。此外，这些危机为中国政府内部倡导扩大人民币在国际市场角色的人提供了论据。这两种趋势都会损害美国以超低利率发行债券的能力，并加速中国货币地位的上升。
Foreign entities — governments, companies and individuals — hold nearly half of the publicly held debt owed by the United States. Of China’s $3.6 trillion in foreign exchange reserves, about 60 percent is estimated to be held in U.S. government securities.
外国实体——政府、企业和个人——持有将近一半的美国政府债券。据估计，在中国3.6万亿美元的外汇储备中，大约60%以美国政府债券的形式持有。
As foreign exchange reserves have soared over the last decade, Chinese monetary authorities have attempted to diversify away from dollar-denominated assets, with limited success. The motivation for diversification is understandable: Since July 2005, the Chinese currency has been appreciating against the U.S. dollar, so that in terms of local purchasing power, dollar-denominated holdings have been losing value.
由于外汇储备过去10年大幅增加，中国的货币当局已经尝试增持美元资产以外的资产，但成果有限。中国令资产多样化的动力显而易见：自从2005年7月以来，中国货币对美元一直在升值，因此从本国购买力上看，美元资产一直在贬值。
In addition, the fiscal battles in Washington have made the Chinese authorities more anxious. The overarching problem is that over the longer term, U.S. government finances are not sustainable, in the absence of enhanced tax revenues and restrained spending.
除此之外，华盛顿的财政大战让中国政府更加焦虑。最主要的问题是，从更长期来看，在没有提高税收和限制支出的情况下，美国政府的财务状况是无法持续下去的。
However, Chinese policy makers have fairly limited room for maneuver. First, they are locked into a development model that relies heavily on exports as a source of growth. It’s well recognized that adjustment to a new, more domestically oriented growth model is required. But that process will take a long time, and progress thus far has been halting. Hence, it’s likely that China will continue to accumulate large foreign exchange reserves.
不过，中国决策者的行动空间非常有限。首先，他们受困于一个严重依赖出口作为增长来源的发展模式。中国已经充分认识到了向一种更加专注于国内的新型增长模式转变的需要。但这个过程将需要很长时间，而目前的进展较为有限。因此，中国可能将继续积累大量外汇储备。
Second, most of the earnings received by Chinese exporters are in dollars, so that currency is what the People’s Bank of China accumulates. In principle, the dollars could be exchanged for other convertible currencies, like the euro or the Swiss franc. But any move to sell dollars in large-enough amounts to make a dent in dollar-denominated holdings would likely drive down the value of the dollar in such a way as to diminish the value of the securities held by the central bank.
第二，中国出口商的大多数盈利是以美元获得的，因此中国人民银行也会收到大量美元。原则上来说，美元可以被兑换成其他可兑换货币，比如欧元或是瑞士法郎。但是，任何大规模出售美元的举动——大到足以影响美元资产的持有规模——都可能会推动美元贬值，进而导致中国央行持有的债券贬值。
Third, even if the Chinese could diversify their holdings away from dollars without realizing capital losses, the question would be — as always — what is the alternative? Government bonds issued by Germany, Switzerland and Britain are safe, but there just aren’t sufficiently large amounts of those securities available for purchase.
第三，即使中国在没有资本损失的情况下增持美元之外的资产类别，问题是——而且一直都是——中国还有什么别的选择？德国、瑞士和英国的政府债券很安全，但是它们没有这么多的债券可以供中国购买。
China can move away from the dollar in other ways — namely by way of its sovereign wealth fund, the China Investment Corporation (with over $500 billion under management). But again, the question is what can be purchased, and how much. Political resistance to Chinese acquisition of foreign-owned companies, particularly when issues of national security are at stake, have highlighted the dilemma.
中国可以通过其他方式避开美元资产——也就是通过其主权财富基金，中国投资有限责任公司（China Investment Corp., 管理着超过5000亿美元的资产）。但还是那个问题，中国能买什么，又能买多少。中国收购外资企业的政治阻力，尤其是在涉及国家安全的问题的时候，凸显了这一两难之境。
Does that mean we Americans can rest easy? The answer is no.
这是否意味着我们美国人就可以高枕无忧了呢？不是。
To begin with, the fact that fiscal policy is partly in the hands of individuals who don’t believe that debt default is a serious issue understandably makes foreign investors uneasy. Within China, advocates of economic reform have a big argument for accelerating the policy shift that de-emphasizes exports and promotes domestic private consumption to shrink China’s trade surplus.
首先，美国的财政政策部分掌握在一些不认为债务违约是严重问题的个人手里，这个事实让外国投资者坐立不安。在中国，经济改革的倡导者正强烈呼吁加速政策转变，摆脱对出口的依赖，促进国内个人消费，缩小中国的贸易顺差。
Moreover, China has been encouraging the invoicing of trade in renminbi, with some success (albeit starting from very low levels). In addition, China is loosening restrictions on renminbi-related financial transactions, with an eye to increasing the Chinese currency’s role in international finance. Eventually, this will mean a reduced demand for the dollar.
此外，中国一直在鼓励以人民币结算的贸易，并取得了一些进展（尽管起步的水平非常低）。此外，中国正在放宽对与人民币有关的金融交易的限制，目的是提高人民币在国际金融市场中的角色。这最终将意味着美元需求的降低。
Over the longer term, both of these outcomes might be positive from China’s — and the world’s — perspective. However, if timed poorly, they would mean that demand for U.S. Treasury securities would decline at exactly the moment when interest rates on U.S. government debts rose. The resulting strain on government finances is not not be an outcome that patriotic Americans of any stripe should welcome.
从更长期来看，这两种结果对中国和世界来说都可能是积极的。然而，如果时机糟糕的话，它们可能意味着，对美国国债的需求恰好在美国政府债券利率上升的时候下降。这将造成美国政府的财务紧张，而这种结果，是任何一派爱国的美国人都不愿看到的。