Sexual assault has emerged as one of the defining issues for the U.S. military this year. Reports of assaults are up, as are questions about whether commanders have taken the problem seriously. Bills to toughen penalties and prosecution have been introduced in Congress.
性侵犯今年已经成为美军的典型问题之一。有关性侵犯的报告在增加，对指挥官们是否对这个问题认真对待的质疑也在增加。国会已在考虑加大处罚、强化起诉的法律提案。
But in a debate that has focused largely on women, this fact is often overlooked: the majority of service members who are sexually assaulted each year are men.
但在这场主要关注女性的辩论中，以下的事实往往被忽略了：每年，被性侵的服役人员中大部分是男性。
In its latest report on sexual assault, the Pentagon estimated that 26,000 service members experienced unwanted sexual contact in 2012, up from 19,000 in 2010. Of those cases, the Pentagon says, 53 percent involved attacks on men, mostly by other men.
在最近的有关性侵犯的报告中，五角大楼估计，2012年，2.6万名服役人员经历了强迫的性接触，2010年这一数字为1.9万。五角大楼称，53%的案例是对男性的侵犯，实施侵犯的也主要是男性。
“It’s easy for some people to single out women and say: ‘There’s a small percentage of the force having this problem,’ ” said First Lt. Adam Cohen, who said he was raped by a superior officer. “No one wants to admit this problem affects everyone. Both genders, of all ranks. It’s a cultural problem.”
“一些人很容易把女性挑出来，说：‘军队里有这个问题的只是一小部分人，’”称曾被上级强奸的亚当·科恩(Adam Cohen)中尉说。“没人愿意承认这个问题会影响到每个人，不论男女，不分级别。这是一个文化问题。”
Though women, who represent about 15 percent of the force, are significantly more likely to be sexually assaulted in the military than men, experts say assaults against men have been vastly underreported. For that reason, the majority of formal complaints of military sexual assault have been filed by women, even though the majority of victims are thought to be men.
尽管约占服役人员总数15%的女性在军队中明显比男性更容易遭到性侵犯，但专家称大多数男性遭受的性侵犯没有被报告。正是因为这个原因，虽然军队性侵犯正式控告中大部分都是由女性提起的，但大部分受害者却被认为是男性。
“Men don’t acknowledge being victims of sexual assault,” said Dr. Carol O’Brien, the chief of post-traumatic stress disorder programs at the Bay Pines Veterans Affairs Health Care System in Florida, which has a residential treatment program for sexually abused veterans. “Men tend to feel a great deal of shame, embarrassment and fear that others will respond negatively.”
“男性不愿承认自己是性侵犯的受害者，”佛罗里达州海湾松树退伍军人事务医疗保健系统(Bay Pines Veterans Affairs Health Care System)创伤后压力心理障碍症项目负责人卡罗尔·奥布莱恩(Carol O’Brien)博士说。“男性往往会觉得很丢人，很尴尬，而且担心其他人会做出负面反应。”
But in recent months, intense efforts on Capitol Hill to curb military sexual assault, and the release of a new documentary about male sexual assault victims in the military, “Justice Denied,” have brought new attention to male victims. Advocates say their plight shows that sexual assault has risen not because there are more women in the ranks but because sexual violence is often tolerated.
但近来数月，国会中遏止军队性侵犯的巨大努力，以及以军队性侵犯受害者为题材的新纪录片《被剥夺的正义》(Justice Denied)的发行，让男性受害者得到新的关注。倡导人士表示，这些受害者的困境表明，性侵犯案件的增加不是因为军队中的女性人数增加了，而是因为性暴力往往都被容忍了。
“I think telling the story about male victims is the key to changing the culture of the military,” said Anuradha K. Bhagwati, executive director of the Service Women’s Action Network, an advocacy group that has sharply criticized the Pentagon’s handling of sexual assault. “I think it places the onus on the institution when people realize it’s also men who are victims.”
“我认为，讲出男性受害者的故事是改变这种军队文化的关键，”权利倡导组织“服役女性行动网络”(Service Women’s Action Network)的执行总监阿努拉达·K·巴格瓦蒂(Anuradha K. Bhagwati)说，“我认为，当人们意识到男性也是受害者时，责任便落在制度上。”该组织一直严厉抨击五角大楼对性侵犯问题的应对。
In interviews, nearly a dozen current and former service members who said they were sexually assaulted in the military described fearing that they would be punished, ignored or ridiculed if they reported the attacks. Most said that before 2011, when the ban on openly gay service members was repealed, they believed they would have been discharged if they admitted having sexual contact — even unwanted contact — with other men.
在采访中，超过十名自称遭遇过性侵犯的现役和退伍军人表示，他们担心如果自己报告受到了侵犯，会被惩罚、被忽视或被嘲笑。大部分人表示，在2011年针对公开性取向的同性恋士兵的禁令被废除之前，他们觉得，如果承认同男性有过性接触，哪怕是被迫的，自己也会被迫退伍。
“Back in 1969, you didn’t dare say a word,” said Gregory Helle, an author who says he was raped in his barracks by another soldier in Vietnam. “They wouldn’t have believed me. Homophobia was big back then.”
“回到1969年，你连一个字都不敢说，”称在越南战争时在自己的营房里被另一名士兵强奸了的作家格雷戈里·赫勒(Gregory Helle)说。“他们不会相信我的。那时对同性恋的憎恶非常严重。”
Many sexual assaults on men in the military seem to be a form of violent hazing or bullying, said Roger Canaff, a former New York State prosecutor who helped train prosecutors on the subject of military sexual assault for the Pentagon. “The acts seemed less sexually motivated than humiliation or torture-motivated,” he said.
在军队性侵犯问题上帮助五角大楼培训检察官的纽约州前检察官罗杰·卡纳夫(Roger Canaff)表示，男性在军队里遭遇的许多性侵犯好像是一种暴力捉弄或欺负的形式。他说，“那些行为的动机好像更多的是羞辱或折磨，而不是性。”
But such attacks can be deeply traumatizing, causing men to question their sexuality or view themselves as weak. Some said their own families seemed ashamed of them.
但这种侵犯会造成深深的创伤，导致男性质疑自己的性取向，或者认为自己很懦弱。一些人表示，他们的家庭好像也为他们感到羞耻。
Rick Lawson said that while he was in the Army National Guard in Washington in 2003 and 2004, he was repeatedly sexually bullied by a group of soldiers, including a sergeant who rubbed his groin into Mr. Lawson’s buttocks and jumped into his bunk and pretended to cuddle with him. Later, during preparations for deployment to Iraq, one sergeant handcuffed him and put him in a headlock while another pretended to sodomize him, Mr. Lawson said.
里克·劳森(Rick Lawson)说自己2003年和2004年在华盛顿陆军国民警卫队(Army National Guard)服役时，曾多次被一群士兵性欺负，其中包括一名中士。那名中士用自己的大腿根蹭他的臀部，跳到他的床上，假装和他偎依。劳森说，后来，在准备调往伊拉克时，一名中士给他戴上手铐，卡住他的脖子，另一人假装鸡奸他。
Several months after his unit arrived in Iraq in 2004, Mr. Lawson decided to report the bullying. His assailants were punished with reduced rank, Army records show, but he had to finish his deployment while living near them on the same base.
2004年，他所在的部队抵达伊拉克几个月后，劳森决定汇报自己受到的欺凌。陆军的记录显示，侵犯他的人受到了惩罚，被降了级，但他还是需要在同一个基地住在那些人附近，完成自己的服役。
After he returned to Washington, he received a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder and was discharged from the Army in 2006. He struggled with depression and lost a job, then decided to start an advocacy group for veterans.
回到华盛顿后，他被诊断患有创伤后压力心理障碍症，并于2006年退伍。他曾被抑郁症困扰，失去了工作，后来决定为退伍军人创办一个权利倡导组织。
“A lot of people say this problem exists because we are allowing women into the military or because of the repeal of ‘don’t ask, don’t tell,’ ” he said, referring to the ban on openly gay service members. “But that is absurd. The people who perpetrated these crimes on me identify as heterosexual males.”
“许多人说这个问题之所以存在是因为我们允许女性参军，或是因为‘不问、不说’这项禁令的废除，”他说。他指的是禁止公开性倾向的同性恋服役的禁令。“但这很荒谬。对我实施那些罪行的人都是自称异性恋的男性。”
Although the vast majority of military sexual assaults are by men, a small number of men have reported being raped by women.
尽管绝大部分军队性侵犯的实施者都是男性，也有一小部分男性报告称被女性强奸了。
Richard H. Ruffert, 50, said his boss in an Army reserve unit in Texas forced him to have sex with her by threatening to give him poor reviews. He said the sex continued for about two months in the late 1990s, until he attempted suicide. He then told a commander and, after a lengthy investigation, his boss was transferred. But he believes that she was never punished.
50岁的理查德·H·鲁费特(Richard H. Ruffert)说，在德克萨斯州时，他在陆军预备役的上司通过威胁给他不好的评语，逼迫他和她发生性关系。他说那是上世纪90年代末的事情，他和那名女上司的性关系持续了大约两个月，直到他企图自杀。他后来告诉了一位司令官，经过漫长的调查后，他的上司被调离了。但他相信，她从未受到惩罚。
He retired from the military in 2004 and spent several years struggling with nightmares, drug addiction and homelessness, which he blames on the sexual assault. Therapy and working with veterans have helped him, he said.
他2004年从军队退役，好几年都做噩梦，还上了毒瘾，而且无家可归，他把这些都归咎于遭遇的性侵犯。他说，治疗以及和退伍军人一起工作帮助了他。
But he does not feel comfortable dating women anymore. “This has completely changed my life,” said Mr. Ruffert, who appears in the film “Justice Denied.”
但他在和女性约会时不再会感到舒服。鲁费特说，“这完全改变了我的生活。”他出现在《被剥夺的正义》这部影片中。
Many experts believe that the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell” will cause many more men to report sexual assault. That was the case with Lieutenant Cohen, who says he was raped in 2007 by an Army officer he had met in graduate school. At the time, Lieutenant Cohen was preparing to join the Air Force.
许多专家相信，“不问、不说”这项禁令的废止会让更多男性报告性侵犯案件。科恩中尉就是这种情况。他说自己2007年被在研究生院遇到的一名陆军军官强奸了。当时，他正在为加入空军做准备。
After initially remaining silent about the episode, he filed a complaint with Air Force investigators in late 2011, after the ban was rescinded. But the investigation took a surprising turn: after Lieutenant Cohen returned from a five-month tour in Afghanistan, he learned that he had become the subject of the investigation and was no longer viewed as a victim.
起初，他对该事件保持沉默，后来，在禁令被废除后的2011年年底，他向空军调查人员提起了控诉。但调查出现了出人意料的转变：在结束了为时5个月的阿富汗之旅后，他获悉自己已成了被调查的对象，不再被当成受害者了。
The military recently told Lieutenant Cohen, 29, that it was reopening the sexual assault case. But he faces a court-martial trial in July on multiple charges, including conduct unbecoming an officer. He views the trial as punishment for filing a criminal complaint against a superior officer. The Air Force denies that.
军方最近告诉29岁的科恩正在重启那桩性侵案。但他7月将在军事法庭接受多项指控的审判，包括有失军官身份的行为。他认为这场审判是对他向一名上级长官提起刑事诉讼的惩罚。空军对此进行了否认。
“I think the attention to this issue is absolutely needed,” Lieutenant Cohen said. “But it’s a little bit late. We still have attacks, and we still have retaliation.”
“我觉得关注这个问题是完全有必要的，”科恩说，“但有点晚了。我们的军队中依然还有侵犯事件发生，依然还有报复行为发生。”