WASHINGTON — In vowing in Estonia on Wednesday to defend vulnerable NATO nations from Russia, President Obama has now committed the United States to three major projections of its power: a “pivot” to Asia, a muscular presence in Europe and a new battle against Islamic extremists that seems likely to accelerate.
华盛顿——周三，当奥巴马总统在爱沙尼亚承诺会保护脆弱的北约(NATO)成员国免受俄罗斯伤害时，他实际上为美国的实力投射设定了三大目标：实施“转向”亚洲的战略、在欧洲建立强大的存在，以及与伊斯兰极端分子展开一场新战斗——这场战斗很可能会加速。
American officials acknowledge that these commitments are bound to upend Mr. Obama’s plans for shrinking the Pentagon’s budget before he leaves office in 2017. They also challenge a crucial doctrine of his first term: that the use of high technology and only a “light footprint” of military forces can deter ambitious powers and counter terrorists. And the commitments may well reverse one of the key tenets of his two presidential campaigns, that the money once spent in Iraq and Afghanistan would be turned to “nation-building at home.”
美国官员承认，这些目标足以让奥巴马在2017年卸任之前缩减五角大楼预算的种种方案泡汤。它们还挑战着奥巴马首个任期的关键原则：使用先进技术，以及“轻足迹”的军事力量，就可以震慑野心勃勃的大国，遏制恐怖分子。此外，这些目标可能还会违背他两次总统竞选中的一个关键主张：曾经花在伊拉克和阿富汗上的钱应该用于美国“国内的国家建设”。
But the accumulation of new defensive initiatives leaves open the question of how forcefully Mr. Obama is committed to reversing the suspicion, from Europe to the Middle East to Asia, that the United States is in an era of retrenchment. In his travels in Europe this week and to Asia this fall, the president faces a dual challenge: convincing American allies and partners that he has no intention to leave power vacuums around the globe for adversaries to fill, while convincing Americans that he can face each of these brewing conflicts without plunging them back into another decade of large military commitments and heavy casualties.
不过，这些新的防御计划也带来了一个悬而未决的疑问：奥巴马有多大决心逆转在欧洲、中东和亚洲普遍存在的看法，即美国进入了节衣缩食的时代。本周在欧洲以及今秋在亚洲访问期间，奥巴马面临着双重挑战，他既要说服美国的盟友和伙伴，自己无意在全球留下权力真空，让对手去填补，同时还要让美国人相信，他能够应对每一场正在酝酿的冲突，又不会把美国推入另一个背负着沉重军事使命且伤亡惨重的十年。
“There is a growing mismatch between the rhetoric and the policy,” said Richard N. Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations and a senior American official during the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, and again as the war with Iraq loomed a dozen years ago. “If you add up the resources needed to implement the Asian pivot, recommit to the Middle East and increase our presence in Europe, you can’t do it without additional money and capacity. The world has proved to be a far more demanding place than it looked to this White House a few years ago.”
“言论和政策越来越不匹配，”美国对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)主席理查德·N·哈斯(Richard N. Haass)说。哈斯在1989年柏林墙倒塌时，以及12年前与伊拉克的战争爆发之前，都曾在政府担任高级职务。他说，“要实施转向亚洲的策略、重新参与中东事务，并加强在欧洲的存在，把所需的资源加起来的话，不可能不需要额外的资金和实力。对于白宫来说，世界已经变得比几年前棘手得多。”
So it is no surprise that at a moment when Mr. Obama is still answering critics for saying last week that “we don’t have a strategy yet” to combat the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, he now needs several strategies, each tailored to problems that in the past year have taken on surprising complexities.
因此，不足为奇的是，奥巴马还在因为上周说“我们还没有策略”对抗伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria， 简称ISIS）而受到批评时，他如今就需要制定若干项策略，而且所有策略都必须适用于具体的问题，而这些问题过去一年都呈现了令人惊讶的复杂性。
In facing the more than 10,000 ISIS fighters, he must find a way to confront a different kind of terrorist group, one determined to use the most brutal techniques to take territory that the backwash from the Arab Spring has now put up for grabs. The American bombing campaign against ISIS targets in Iraq is nowhere close to approaching the costs of the invasion and occupation of that country, but the weapons, fuel and other expenses are running up anticipated bills of about $225 million a month, according to Pentagon officials.
面对上万名ISIS武装分子，他必须找到一种方式来应对这个不同以往的恐怖组织，该组织下定决心使用最野蛮的做法，在阿拉伯之春后不堪一击的地区夺取土地。美国对伊拉克境内的ISIS目标实施轰炸的成本虽然远远低于入侵和占领伊拉克的成本，但五角大楼的官员称，武器、燃料和其他事项的花销，估计每月可达2.25亿美元左右（约合13.8亿元人民币）。
ISIS “is not invincible,” Matthew G. Olsen, the director of the National Counterterrorism Center, said in a talk at the Brookings Institution on Wednesday, and does not yet pose the kind of direct threat to the United States that Al Qaeda did before the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. It is “brutal and lethal,” he said, and defeating it will require a long-term commitment of a kind Mr. Obama clearly did not anticipate earlier this year.
周三，美国国家反恐中心(National Counterterrorism Center)主任马修·G·奥尔森(Matthew G. Olsen)在布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)参加会谈时表示，ISIS“不是不可战胜的”，它还没有像基地组织(Al Qaeda)在2001年发动9·11袭击事件之前那样，对美国造成直接威胁。他称，该组织“残暴且危害极大”，打败他们需要长期的投入，很明显，奥巴马今年早些时候没有预料到这种情况。
In the Russia of President Vladimir V. Putin, Mr. Obama faces a declining power — afflicted by a shrinking population, a strident nationalism and an economy highly dependent on oil exports — that he is betting cannot sustain Mr. Putin’s appetites. But the arguments inside the administration have been over how directly and where to draw the line — and not surprisingly, in Tallinn, Estonia, on Wednesday, he drew it at NATO’s own boundaries. The question is whether Mr. Putin believes him.
面对弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统领导的俄罗斯，奥巴马眼前是一个正在衰落的大国，受困于人口减少、强硬民族主义抬头、经济高度依赖石油出口等问题。他确信这样的国家无法满足普京的欲望。但政府内部一直存在的争论是，怎样直接地划定底线，以及在哪里划定底线。不出意料，他于周三在爱沙尼亚塔林阐明了底线，这里也刚好是北约的边界。问题是普京是否相信他。
And in China, the president faces an entirely different kind of challenge: a rising power with growing resources and a sense that this is China’s moment to reassert influence in Asia in a way it has not in hundreds of years. Here the surprise to Mr. Obama has been the aggressiveness with which Xi Jinping, China’s president, has embraced efforts to press territorial claims against Japan, South Korea, Vietnam and the Philippines.
而中国对奥巴马构成了一个完全不同的挑战：一个实力不断增强的正在崛起的大国，而且中国感觉当下正是在亚洲重新施加影响力的时刻，中国过去几百年都没有取得这种成果。让奥巴马感到震惊的是中国国家主席习近平采取了强硬举措，就领土主权问题向日本、韩国、越南及菲律宾施压。
“We didn’t see this coming,” one former member of Mr. Obama’s national security team said this summer, “and there’s a lot of debate about how to counter it.”
“我们没有预料到这种局面，”奥巴马国家安全团队的一位前成员今年夏天表示，“在如何反制的问题上存在很多争论。”
The statement could be true for each of the challenges Mr. Obama is confronting. And it explains why the administration is having such a difficult time explaining how this combination will affect its future plans.
上述说法对于奥巴马面临的每一个挑战可能都是成立的。这也解释了奥巴马政府现在为何很难讲清楚，当前复杂局面对未来计划的影响。
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel was put in his job in part to find ways to shrink the military, especially after the official combat mission in Afghanistan ends this year. But Mr. Hagel has been either unable or unwilling to articulate the long-term implications.
奥巴马任命查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)担任国防部长，部分是为了寻找途径，缩减军队规模，特别是美军今年结束在阿富汗的正式作战任务之后。但哈格尔一直不能或不愿清晰地阐述长期的影响。
There are plans afoot to shift the American presence to the Pacific over the next six years, aiming toward the moment when 60 percent of America’s forces abroad are in the region. But many Asian leaders question whether Mr. Obama and his successor will carry through.
美国计划在未来六年里将军力向太平洋地区转移，目标是将美国60%的海外军力部署到该地区。但很多亚洲领导人质疑，奥巴马及其继任者是否会贯彻这一计划。