Videos released by an anti-abortion group during the last two weeks have drawn attention to a little-known practice: the buying, selling and research use of fetal tissue acquired from abortion clinics.
在过去两周里，一个反堕胎组织发布的多个视频让人们注意到一个鲜为人知的行为：有人从人流诊所获取胎儿组织用以买卖和科学研究。
The group behind the tapes accuses Planned Parenthood of selling fetal tissue for profit — which is illegal and which Planned Parenthood denies doing. House Republicans plan to investigate. This may be just one more battle in the nation’s long war over abortion, but the dispute has raised questions about who the buyers and sellers are, what fetal tissue is used for and what the law allows.
发布这些视频的组织指责美国计划生育联合会(Planned Parenthood)出售胎儿组织牟利。这种行为是违法的，美国计划生育联合会对此予以否认。众议院的共和党人计划对此进行调查。这可能是美国关于堕胎的漫长战争中的又一场战斗，但是这一争议引出了许多问题，包括买卖双方是谁、胎儿组织被用来做什么以及相关法律是怎样的。
Scientists at major universities and government labs have quietly been using fetal tissue for decades. They say it is an invaluable tool for certain types of research, including the study of eye diseases, diabetes and muscular dystrophy. Nevertheless, some agree to talk about it only if their names and their universities’ names are withheld, because they have received threats of violence from abortion opponents. Companies that obtain the tissue from clinics and sell it to laboratories exist in a gray zone, legally. Federal law says they cannot profit from the tissue itself, but the law does not specify how much they can charge for processing and shipping.
重点大学和政府实验室的科学家们已经悄悄使用胎儿组织几十年了。他们说，胎儿组织是研究眼部疾病、糖尿病和肌肉萎缩症等疾病的珍贵研究材料。其中一些人同意谈论这个话题，但前提是隐去他们的名字以及他们所在大学的名字，因为他们收到过反堕胎人士的暴力威胁。从法律上讲，那些从诊所获得胎儿组织然后卖给实验室的公司处在灰色地带。联邦法律规定，他们不能从胎儿组织本身牟利，但是法律没有具体规定他们可以为加工和运输过程收取多少费用。
The National Institutes of Health spent $76 million on research using fetal tissue in 2014 with grants to more than 50 universities, including Columbia, Harvard, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Stanford, Yale and the University of California in Berkeley, Irvine, Los Angeles, San Diego and San Francisco. It expects to spend the same amount in 2015 and 2016.
2014年，美国国家卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)在使用胎儿组织的研究上投入了7600万美元，拨款给50多所大学，包括哥伦比亚大学(Columbia)、哈佛大学(Harvard)、麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)、斯坦福大学(Stanford)、耶鲁大学(Yale)以及加州大学(University of California)的伯克利分校、欧文分校、洛杉矶分校、圣迭戈分校和旧金山分校。该研究院预计将在2015年和2016年投入与2014年同样的资金。
Researchers say fetal tissue is a uniquely rich source of the stem cells that give rise to tissues and organs, and that studying how they develop can provide clues about how to grow replacements for parts of the body that have failed.
研究者称，胎儿组织含有极其丰富的干细胞，干细胞可以发育成组织和器官，研究它们的发育过程有助于研究如何培植功能衰竭的人体器官的替代品。
“Think of fetal tissue as a kind of instruction booklet,” said Sheldon Miller, the scientific director of the intramural research program at the National Eye Institute.
“你可以把胎儿组织看做一种指导手册，”美国国家眼科研究所(National Eye Institute)内部研究项目的科学主管谢尔登·米勒(Sheldon Miller)说。
Stem cells derived from adult tissue may eventually replace fetal ones, researchers say, but the science is not there yet.
研究者称，从成人组织中提取的干细胞也许能最终代替胎儿组织，但是目前的技术还没那么发达。
Eye tissue from fetuses has played a crucial role in studies aimed at finding treatments for degenerative diseases of the retina that are a major cause of vision loss in people as they age, according to Dr. Miller.
米勒博士说，胎儿的眼组织在寻找视网膜退化疾病的治疗方法方面发挥了关键作用。视网膜退化是老年人失明的一个主要原因。
“We couldn’t get this information any other way,” Dr. Miller said. He said the eye institute bought fetal tissue from a company, created specialized cultures of retinal tissue from it and sent them to other researchers.
“我们无法通过其他途径获得这个信息，”米勒说。他还说，美国国家眼科研究所从一个公司购买胎儿组织，通过研究胎儿组织创造出专门的视网膜组织培养物，并把组织培养物发给其他的研究人员。
A university researcher who asked not to be identified because he had received threats that led his institution to post a guard outside his laboratory, said fetal tissue was extraordinarily useful because “if you want to understand how a tissue or a disease develops, you should go back to the beginning.”
一位大学研究者说，胎儿组织特别有用，因为“如果你想了解一种组织或疾病是如何发展的，你必须回到源头”。他要求匿名，因为他收到过暴力威胁，他所在的研究院在他的实验室外设置了保安。
Another researcher, also concerned about threats, said fetal tissue was essential in research to develop treatments for degenerative diseases of muscle, because “to regenerate tissues in a human, you need to understand how human cells work.” Animal tissue can take researchers only so far, they say, because there are critical differences in development.
另一位也顾虑暴力威胁的研究者说，胎儿组织对于研究肌肉退化疾病的治疗方法非常重要，因为“要想使人体组织再生，需要搞清楚人体细胞是如何运作的”。他们说，动物组织能给研究者提供的信息有限，因为它们的发育过程很不相同。
Fetal tissue can be used only with the consent of the woman having an abortion. Some researchers receive the tissue from abortion clinics at their own institutions, or from tissue banks maintained by some universities. Many buy the tissue from companies that act as middlemen. Those companies pay small fees, usually $100 or less a specimen, to abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, who say they charge only what they need to cover their expenses. The companies then process the tissue and sell it to researchers for higher prices that reflect the processing.
只有经过堕胎的女人同意，胎儿组织才能被使用。有些研究者从自己研究院的人流诊所或一些大学的组织库获得胎儿组织。很多研究者从作为中介的公司购买胎儿组织。那些公司向美国计划生育联合会等提供堕胎服务的机构支付很少的费用以获得胎儿组织，通常一个样本的价格在100美元以下。美国计划生育联合会称，它们收取的费用仅够弥补支出。然后，那些公司加工这些组织，以更高的价格（以体现加工所付出的劳动）卖给研究人员。
The fees, which can run to thousands of dollars for a tiny vial of cells, do not break the law, according to Arthur Caplan, the director of the division of medical ethics at NYU Langone Medical Center.
一小瓶细胞的费用可达数千美元。纽约大学兰贡医学中心(NYU Langone Medical Center)的医学伦理学部主管阿瑟·卡普兰(Arthur Caplan)说，收取这些费用并不违法。
“It appears to be legal, no matter how much you charge,” Dr. Caplan said, adding that there appears to be little or no oversight of the processing fees. “It’s a very gray and musty area as to what you can charge.”
“不管收费多少似乎都是合法的，”卡普兰博士说。他补充说，关于加工费的监管非常有限，甚至可以说完全没有监管，“收费是一个非常肮脏的灰色地带”。
Many researchers buy tissue from two small California companies. StemExpress, a five-year-old business based in Placerville, Calif., describes itself as “the largest provider of maternal blood and fetal tissue globally.” It also says it offers “special discounts to the academic community.”
很多研究人员从加州的两个小公司购买胎儿组织。加州普拉塞维尔的StemExpress公司已创立五年，称自己是“全球最大的孕妇血液和胎儿组织供应商”。它还说自己“给学术机构提供特别折扣”。
Its founder, Cate Dyer, has a bachelor’s degree in sociology from California State University in Sacramento. She started StemExpress with $9,000. An article last November in Sacramento Business Journal said that the company had grown more than 1,300 percent in three years. Its revenue was $2.2 million, according to a report in August 2014 in Inc. magazine.
StemExpress公司的创始人凯特·戴尔(Cate Dyer)拥有加州州立大学萨克拉门托分校(California State University in Sacramento)的社会学硕士学位。当初她投资9000美元创立了该公司。《萨克拉门托商业杂志》(Sacramento Business Journal)去年11月的一篇文章称，该公司在三年时间里增长了超过1300%。《Inc.》杂志2014年8月的一篇报道称，该公司的年收入为220万美元。
Ms. Dyer said that fetal tissue accounted for about 10 percent of the company’s business. She agreed to be interviewed on the condition that she not be asked about the congressional investigation into her company’s partnership with Planned Parenthood. Her lawyer and a crisis communication expert were present on the telephone interview.
戴尔说，胎儿组织占该公司业务的约10%。她同意接受采访，前提是不要询问国会对她的公司与美国计划生育联合会合作关系的调查情况。在电话采访中，她的律师和一位危机沟通专家也在场。
She said the company obtained fetal tissue in accordance with the rules made by ethics boards at the institutions buying it, and the tissue has been used in studies of leukemia, Hodgkin’s lymphoma and Parkinson’s disease.
她说，该公司按照研究伦理委员会的规定获取胎儿组织，这些组织被用于白血病、淋巴肉芽肿病和帕金森病的研究。
It employs 37 people, including scientists, lab technicians and phlebotomists. Most clients come from referrals, and seek hard-to-find cell types, she said.
该公司有37名雇员，包括科学家、实验室技术员和采血师。她说，大部分客户是引荐来的，是为了寻找罕见的细胞类型。
StemExpress uses procurement technicians to obtain fetal tissue. “We’re collecting biohazardous waste, discarded waste,” Ms. Dyer said. “They go to a hospital or to a facility that does terminations and collect tissues from those waste products.”
StemExpress公司派采购技术员去获取胎儿组织。“我们收集生化废弃物，”戴尔说，“他们去提供堕胎服务的医院或机构，从废弃物中收集组织。”
Back at the company, lab technicians process the tissue to try to isolate the specific cell type a researcher has ordered — for instance, fetal liver stem cells.
回到公司后，实验室技术员对这些组织进行加工，努力把研究者订购的细胞类型分离出来，比如胎儿肝脏干细胞。
“These cells are hard to isolate,” Ms. Dyer said. “These are hard processes, expensive processes that take millions of dollars of equipment. Just to attempt to do some of these isolations can cost us thousands of dollars, and it may not even work.”
“这些细胞很难分离，”戴尔说，“分离过程艰难而昂贵，需要使用数百万美元的设备。仅仅尝试去分离的过程就可能要花费数千美元，而且还可能不成功。”
The effort is reflected in the pricing: a vial containing five million frozen fetal liver CD133+ stem cells can cost more than $24,000.
分离工作的艰难体现在定价上：一瓶500万个冷冻胎儿肝脏CD133+干细胞的价格可能超过2.4万美元。
The final products are shipped fresh or frozen. Shipping fees are separate from specimen costs, and an overnight shipment to Germany, for example, can cost thousands of dollars, according to Ms. Dyer.
成品即刻运送或冷冻运送。戴尔称，运输费和样本费是单独计算的，比如连夜运送至德国的费用可能是几千美元。
Fetal tissue sales are not limited to cells in a vial. More than a dozen research papers published since 2012 acknowledge obtaining intact fetal eyes, hearts, livers and kidneys from StemExpress.
所销售的胎儿组织不限于瓶装细胞。2012年起发表的十多篇研究论文承认，曾从StemExpress公司获取完整的胎儿眼睛、心脏、肝脏和肾脏。
The other major supplier of fetal tissue, Advanced Bioscience Resources Inc., or ABR, is a nonprofit that has 12 employees and recent sales of about $1.4 million, according to a Dun and Bradstreet report. A 2013 price sheet listed charges of $300 a specimen for tissue from a second-trimester fetus, and $515 if the fetus was first-trimester.
另一个主要的胎儿组织供应商是高级生物科学资源公司（Advanced Bioscience Resources Inc.，简称ABR）。邓白氏公司(Dun and Bradstreet)的一份报告称，ABR是一个非盈利机构，有12名雇员，近些年的年销售额约为140万美元。根据该公司2013年的一份价格表，孕中期胎儿的一个组织样本为300美元，孕早期胎儿的一个样本为515美元。
Linda Tracy, a registered nurse and president of ABR, said in an email that her company’s prices reflect the time, effort and space needed to obtain the fetal tissue. She noted that because funds for academic institutions are limited, her company tries to keep fees at a minimum.
ABR公司的主席、注册护士琳达·特雷西(Linda Tracy)接受邮件采访时说，她的公司的价格体现的是获取胎儿组织所需的时间、人力和空间。她指出，由于研究机构的经费有限，她的公司总是尽量收取最低费用。
“Planned Parenthood is in no way making a profit from participating in a tissue donation program,” said Ms. Tracy, adding that the $30 to $100 acquisition fees mentioned in the first undercover video sounded “reasonable.”
“美国计划生育联合会绝不可能从组织捐献项目中获利，”特雷西说。她补充说，第一个暗访视频中提到的30至100美元的采集费听起来“很合理”。
ABR documents say its products have been used in H.I.V. research by medical researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles and the University of Southern California. Tissue from the company has also been used at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital and has been involved elsewhere in research on transplants.
ABR公司的文件称，它的产品被加州大学洛杉矶分校和加利福尼亚南部大学(University of Southern California)的医学研究者用于HIV研究。该公司的胎儿组织还被辛辛那提儿童医院(Cincinnati Children’s Hospital)使用，也用于其他地方关于器官移植的研究。
A StemExpress brochure uncovered by the organization Center for Medical Progress, which was responsible for the leaked videos, contains an endorsement from a chapter of Planned Parenthood. It quotes Dr. Dorothy Furgerson of Planned Parenthood Mar Monte saying: “Our partnership with StemExpress is beneficial in a number of ways.” It goes on to describe contributions to “lifesaving research,” and its confidence that patients’ anonymity is secure.
发布上述暗访视频的医学进步中心(Center for Medical Progress)还曝光了StemExpress公司的一个宣传册。其中包括美国计划生育联合会一个分会的支持。宣传册中引用了美国计划生育联合会Mar Monte分会的多萝西·弗格森博士(Dorothy Furgerson)的话：“我们与StemExpress公司的合作从很多方面讲都是有益的。”宣传册还描述了该公司对“拯救生命的研究”的贡献以及对病人隐私安全的信心。
But critics note several references in the flyer to financial benefits for clinics. By teaming with StemExpress, “you will also be contributing to the fiscal growth of your own clinic,” it says, a statement that some contend suggests clinics may be illegally profiting from providing fetal tissue.
但是，批评者们注意到，宣传册中多次提到对诊所的经济益处。宣传册中说，与StemExpress公司合作“还将有益于你的诊所的收入增长”。有人认为，这句话表明，诊所可能通过提供胎儿组织非法获利。
George J. Annas, a law professor and bioethicist at Boston University, said, “What’s going on now is probably legal, but Congress won’t like it.”
波士顿大学(Boston University)的法律教授、生物伦理学家乔治·J·安纳斯(George J. Annas)说，“现在他们做的事情很可能是合法的，但国会不会喜欢他们的做法。”
Regarding the companies, Mr. Annas said: “They won’t be real happy that this is all out in the public. This threatens their business. Even if what they’re doing is legal, the law can easily be changed.”
提到那些公司时，安纳斯说，“这些事情公诸于众，他们不会很高兴。这威胁到他们的生意。就算他们现在做的事情是合法的，但是法律规定很容易发生变化。”