WASHINGTON — President Obama plans to substantially increase the deployment of heavy weapons, armored vehicles and other equipment to NATO countries in Central and Eastern Europe, a move that administration officials said was aimed at deterring Russia from further aggression in the region.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统计划大幅增加在北约的中东欧成员国部署的重型武器、装甲车辆等装备。奥巴马政府官员说，此举的目的是遏制俄罗斯，防止其进一步进犯该地区。
The White House plans to pay for the additional weapons and equipment with a budget request of more than $3.4 billion for military spending in Europe in 2017, several officials said Monday, more than quadrupling the current budget of $789 million. The weapons and equipment will be used by American and NATO forces, ensuring that the alliance can maintain a full armored combat brigade in the region at all times.
本周一，多位官员表示，白宫计划申请逾34亿美元的2017年对欧军事开支预算，来为这些额外的武器和装备买单，该金额是目前预算7.89亿美元的四倍多。这些武器装备将供美国和北约部队使用，以确保北约任何时候都可以在该地区调动一个完整的装甲战斗旅。
Though Russia’s military activity has quieted in eastern Ukraine in recent months, Moscow continues to maintain a presence there, working with pro-Russian local forces. Administration officials said the additional NATO forces were calculated to send a signal to President Vladimir V. Putin that the West remained deeply suspicious of his motives in the region.
虽然最近几个月，俄罗斯在乌克兰东部的军事活动已经有所平息，但莫斯科与亲俄派地方势力合作，继续保持着在那里的存在。美国政府官员表示，增强北约军力是为了向俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)传达一个信号：西方仍对他在该地区的企图深感怀疑。
“This is not a response to something that happened last Tuesday,” a senior administration official said. “This is a longer-term response to a changed security environment in Europe. This reflects a new situation, where Russia has become a more difficult actor.”
“这不是对上周二发生的事情的回应，”美国政府一位高级官员说。“这是针对欧洲安全环境变化的一个长期应对之策。这反映了新的局面，俄罗斯在其中已经成为了一个更加棘手的参与者。”
It is not clear how Russia will react to the fortified military presence along NATO’s eastern flank. Since the signing of a cease-fire agreement last year, Mr. Putin’s government has tried to ease tensions with the West. Officials said the Russian government was eager for the United States and Europe to roll back economic sanctions, which suggested that it would not escalate tensions over the new military commitments.
目前尚不清楚俄罗斯对于北约增强东翼军事存在的举动，会做出何种反应。自从去年签署停火协议之后，普京政府试图缓和与西方的紧张关系。官员说，俄罗斯政府急于争取美国和欧洲减少对它的经济制裁，可能不会因为这项新的军事举措而轻举妄动。
But outside analysts were surprised by the magnitude of the increase in military funding for Europe, which is part of an overall budget request of $580 billion for the Pentagon. Mr. Obama, according to a defense official, is also going to ask Congress for a 35 percent increase — $7 billion — to fight Islamic State militants. 
不过，对欧军事支出的增幅令外界分析人士感到惊讶。五角大楼总预算申请的5800亿美元中通常涵盖了对欧军事支出。一名国防官员表示，奥巴马也会要求国会增加35%的预算，来打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子，相当于70亿美元。
Some analysts said the increased funding and deployments would certainly rattle Russia. Among the countries where the equipment and additional forces could be deployed are Hungary, Romania and the Baltic countries, Pentagon officials said.
有分析师指出，增加资金和部署的行动肯定会令俄罗斯不安。可能会部署这些装备和额外军力的国家包括匈牙利、罗马尼亚和波罗的海国家，五角大楼的官员说。
“This is a really big deal, and the Russians are going to have a cow,” said Evelyn N. Farkas, who until October was the Pentagon’s top policy official on Russia and Ukraine. “It’s a huge sign of commitment to deterring Russia, and to strengthening our alliance and our partnership with countries like Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia.”
“这是一个大动作，会让俄罗斯紧张起来，”伊夫林·N·法卡斯(Evelyn N. Farkas)说。“这突显了遏制俄罗斯，与乌克兰、摩尔多瓦、格鲁吉亚等国巩固同盟和伙伴关系的承诺。”去年10月之前，法卡斯一直在五角大楼担任俄罗斯和乌克兰问题高级政策官员。
While the increase in funding for Europe is significant, the administration is proposing that the money come from a separate war-funding account that is meant to pay for operations in the conflicts in Iraq and Syria, as well as the continued American military presence in Afghanistan. That means it is a one-time request, not necessarily a continuing commitment built in to budget requests beyond 2017, officials said.
虽然本次对欧军费开支增加的幅度较大，但政府提议动用一个单独的账户内的资金，那个账户的用途是为在伊拉克和叙利亚的冲突中采取行动，以及继续在阿富汗保持美国军事的存在提供资金。因此这是一次性的预算申请，未必会持续下去，延续到2017年以后的预算申请中，官员说。
“It’s a way to get around the budget caps” imposed on the Pentagon, said Todd Harrison, director of defense budget analysis at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
“这种方法避开了五角大楼的预算限制，”华盛顿国际战略研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的国防预算分析主管托德·哈里森(Todd Harrison)说。
But, Mr. Harrison added, the budget workaround may not succeed in reassuring fretful Eastern European allies because it leaves the decision on what do about future military spending in Europe for the next administration.
但是，哈里森说，这种迂回的预算解决方法可能无法令焦虑的东欧盟友安心，因为它把未来对欧军费开支的问题留给了下一届政府来决定。
“If you want to be reassuring to our allies in Europe,” he said, “you’ve got to show you’ve got a future plan.”
“你要想让欧洲盟友放心，就得证明你对未来已经有了计划，”他说。
Administration officials said the new investments were not just about deterring Russia. The weapons and equipment could also be deployed along NATO’s southern flank, where they could help in the fight against the Islamic State or in dealing with the influx of migrants from Syria.
政府官员表示，此举不只是为了遏制俄罗斯。这些武器装备也可以部署在北约南翼，为打击伊斯兰国、应对叙利亚移民的涌入出力。
“Initially, we were focusing on reassurance,” said one of the senior officials, who, like the others, spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal military planning. “But while that was happening, we were stepping back and asking how to address the changed environment in a more programmatic and consistent way.”
“起初，我们的重点是让盟国安心，”其中一名高官说。“但在这么做的时候，我们退后了一步，思考了一下要如何以一种更务实、更一贯的方式，应对已经发生变化的环境。”和其他人一样，这名官员要求匿名讨论内部军事计划。
Still, there is no doubt the primary target of the funding is Russia. Administration officials said that two years after its annexation of Crimea — an annexation that neither the United States nor its European allies recognize — it was imperative to send Moscow a message that NATO will do all it needs to do in order to stand behind Eastern European members worried that they could be next.
但这笔预算的主要目标无疑仍是俄罗斯。奥巴马政府官员称，在俄罗斯吞并克里米亚——美国及其欧洲盟友均未承认这次吞并——两年后，必须向莫斯科表明，为了向担心自己成为下一个克里米亚的东欧成员国提供支持，北约会采取一切必要措施。
Russia has invested heavily in its military, transforming a cumbersome, Soviet-style army into a lighter, more flexible force, with the ability to carry out rapid interventions. That, combined with Mr. Putin’s willingness to use the military to expand Russia’s influence outside its borders, necessitated a stronger deterrent force, officials said.
俄罗斯在军事方面投入巨资，把一支笨重的苏式军队变成了一支更敏捷、更灵活的部队，具备迅速开展干预行动的能力。官员称，考虑到这一点，再加上普京希望利用军队扩大俄罗斯在境外的影响力，需要部署一支更强大的威慑部队。
“Applying this budget to Europe fulfills promises we’ve made to NATO on the collective defense of the alliance,” a senior defense official said Monday. “But it also shows our commitment and resolve to individual countries to which we will be putting a persistent rotational presence of forces to demonstrate our resolve in their, and our, collective defenses.”
“把这笔预算用到欧洲，兑现了我们对北约做出的联盟集体防御承诺，”一名高级国防官员周一说。“但这也表明我们对各国的承诺和决心。我们将长期在这些国家部署轮流驻防的部队，以表明我们对这些国家的国防，乃至集体防御的坚定决心。”