The insider essay on modeling in China opens with the American author, Meredith Hattam, sitting on a train from Chengdu to Beijing with a 16­-year­-old Ukrainian friend, Lana. The friend is eating a hard­-boiled egg. Ms. Hattam makes it clear that eggs are all Lana will eat for the next 10 days because the modeling agency in Beijing that employs the two of them has cut Lana’s weekly allowance due to her weight. Lana had violated the strict measurement standards laid out in her three­-month modeling contract.
美国人梅雷迪思·哈特姆(Meredith Hattam)写了一篇在中国当模特的揭秘文章。在文章开头，哈特姆和16岁的乌克兰朋友拉娜(Lana)坐在从成都到北京的火车上，拉娜正吃着煮鸡蛋。哈特姆明确写道，在接下来的10天里，拉娜就只能吃鸡蛋，因为雇佣她俩的北京模特经纪公司已经由于拉娜的体重问题砍掉了她的每周零花钱。为期三个月的模特合同里严格规定了体型标准，而她已经超标了。
It is not a glamorous scene, and it sets the stage for the rest of Ms. Hattam’s account of working for several months for an agency in Beijing owned by a former Ukrainian model. The essay appeared recently on Fashionista, a popular blog about the fashion and modeling industries, and gives a look at a world that might appear glitzy to outsiders, but that in Ms. Hattam’s estimation is distressful and demeaning, even if it offers moments of levity and adventure.
这个场景既不光鲜也不诱人，它为哈特姆接下来的叙述做了铺垫。哈特姆在中国工作了数月，服务的是一名乌克兰前模特在北京开的经纪公司。这篇文章最近发表在时尚与模特界的知名博客“时尚达人”(Fashionista)上，可以从中一窥圈内的世界。在外人看来，它可能很眩目，但哈特姆觉得，这个圈子既令人苦恼，又有损人格，即便它提供了些许的欢乐和冒险。
Ms. Hattam, who now lives in Brooklyn, was around 24 years­ old and had what she described as a “curvier­ than­ average frame” when she got a job with the agency, which, according to standard practice, had her work in China illegally on a tourist visa. Ms. Hattam wrote that this kind of job constituted “the dregs of the modeling world, the bottom rung of the high­ fashion ladder.” It means working a series of car shows, fake beauty pageants and pajama catalogs, and on occasion being asked to perform less savory duties.
哈特姆如今住在布鲁克林。在那家模特公司找到工作的时候，她大约24岁，自称拥有“凹凸有致的身材”。按照惯例，那家公司让她用旅游签证前往中国非法打工。哈特姆写道，此类工作属于“模特界的沉滓、高端时尚阶梯最下面的那一层”。这意味着，参加一系列车展、在冒牌的选美比赛上亮相、拍摄睡衣广告，以及间或被要求参加一些不怎么有品味的活动。
Here is Ms. Hattam on one car show that she worked: 
哈特姆工作过的一个车展是这样的：
“For eight hours each day, we’ll lean invitingly on top of a $1.5 million Hummer­like tank wearing short­-skirted army uniforms purchased from a party supply store. Our handlers request that we salute every hour, switching into evening gowns during intervals.”
“每天八个小时，我们楚楚动人地倚在一辆150万美元的悍马式大车上，穿着从派对服饰店买来的短裙军装。经纪人要求我们，每隔一小时就向观众敬礼，然后在间歇期再换成晚礼服。”
For that job, the daily pay was 3,000 renmimbi, or about $500. Forty percent went to the agency and 10 percent to the scout, which is not unusual.
这项工作的日薪是3000元人民币，约合500美元，还要40%归模特公司、10%归星探。这种情况并不少见。
“By the time we leave China, we’ll have earned nothing at all.”
“离开中国的时候，我们什么都没赚到。”
In Beijing, Ms. Hattam lived in a cramped apartment with 12 other models, most of them under 18 and from countries in the former Soviet Union or Eastern Europe. Of the 13 roommates, there were nine girls and four boys.
在北京，哈特姆住在一套拥挤的公寓里，室友包括其他12名模特，其中多数不满18岁，来自前苏联和东欧国家。13个人中，有九个女孩和四个男孩。
Most jobs lasted nine hours a day and required travel to Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Hangzhou, cities central to China’s fashion industry.
大多数工作每天持续九个小时，需要前往中国时尚产业的中心城市：深圳、广州和杭州。
Some jobs did not involve modeling work per se. One 26­-year­-old, college­-educated European colleague was asked to act as a hostess, alone, on an overnight boat trip with older Chinese men. The woman declined and was fired from the agency. Ms. Hattam wrote:
有些任务和模特工作本身没有关系。哈特姆的一个欧洲同事是一名26岁的大学毕业生，被要求在通宵游船之旅中，独自一人陪伴一些年龄较大的中国男人。她拒绝了，因此被公司解雇。哈特姆写道：
“Sex will always quietly surround those who make a career selling their image. But in Asia, it’s pervasive: model life, if one so chooses, becomes a hypersexual nightscape of drugs and promiscuity. Older male models frequently sleep with teenagers (whom they often live with), and at clubs prostitution is euphemistically referred to as ‘working the after­-party.’”
“性，总是默默围绕着那些以出售自己形象为职业的人。但在亚洲，这种事情无处不在：如果你选择了模特生涯，就会发现它已成为充斥着毒品和滥交的暗夜性狂欢。年龄大一些的男模常常跟十几岁的少女睡觉（他们往往同居在一起），在夜店里，卖淫被委婉地称为‘派对后工作’。”
One of Ms. Hattam’s friends, a Canadian model, was asked by the owner of a popular Beijing nightclub to work such a party. For 10,000 renminbi for one night, or more than $1,600, she would “entertain” a Chinese businessman. “After refusing,” Ms. Hattam wrote, “she returned home in tears.”
哈特姆有一个来自加拿大的模特朋友，被一家很火的北京夜店的店主要求参加一个这样的派对，并以1万元人民币一晚的价格“招待”一名中国商人。哈特姆写道，“她拒绝之后，流着泪回了家。”
Before writing the essay that appeared on Fashionista, Ms. Hattam documented her adventures in China on a blog. The entries have a raw and immediate quality to them. One photograph shows women riding camels along sand dunes in western China. This came from one of the more bizarre episodes in Ms. Hattam’s brief modeling career, when she was sent in September 2011 in a group of 40 models to the ancient desert town of Dunhuang to take part in a fake beauty pageant for Chinese tourists, complete with sashes, bikinis and nightgowns.
写“时尚达人”的这篇文章之前，哈特姆在博客上记录了自己在中国的冒险。那些帖子很原生态，也很直白。其中有一张照片，展示了一些女孩骑着骆驼沿着中国西部的沙丘行进。它来自哈特姆短暂的模特生涯中一段颇为离奇的篇章：2011年9月，包括她在内的40名模特被派到沙漠古镇敦煌，参加一场专为中国游客举办的冒牌选美比赛。模特们戴着饰带，穿着比基尼和睡衣。
Ms. Hattam performed as Miss America. A model from Warsaw was appointed Miss India. And so on.
哈特姆扮成美国小姐。一名来自华沙的模特被指派为印度小姐。如此等等。
“I walked. I waved. I smiled ­­even as my trailing dress fell to my stomach, exposing Miss America’s stars and stripes to 4,000 Chinese strangers, who let out a collective gasp.”
“我在台上走动、挥手，即使当我的拖尾礼服滑到腹部，让美国小姐的星啊条啊在4000名中国陌生人面前走了光，令他们一起倒抽凉气的时候，我也面带微笑。”