American officials, who said a surface-to-air missile was responsible for shooting down a Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 on Thursday, said they suspected that the missile was either an SA-11 or SA-20, both Russian made.
美国官员曾说，一枚地对空导弹周四击落了马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的波音777飞机。他们表示，怀疑这枚导弹的型号为SA-11或SA-20。这两种型号均为俄罗斯制造。
In the early hours of the investigation, determining clear accountability for a missile attack was impossible, in part because all three of the forces in or near the conflict area — the pro-Russian separatists, the Ukrainian military and the Russian military — could possess SA-11s, which are one of many legacy weapons from the Soviet Union circulating through this war.
在调查初期，确认这次导弹袭击的责任方是完全不可能的，这其中的一个原因是，冲突地区内部及附近的全部三股势力——亲俄分裂分子、乌克兰军方和俄罗斯军方——都有可能拥有SA-11。前苏联留下的诸多武器就包括SA-11，它们在这次战争中四处流转。
Known in Russian as a “Buk” and among NATO nations as a “Gadfly,” the SA-11 was first designed in the 1970s. Successor variants are in the inventories of both Russian and Ukrainian air-defense units. A Buk system is vehicle-mounted and self-propelled, which means it can be moved around the battlefield, making it hard to track.
SA-11在俄罗斯被称作“Buk”，在北约国家被称作“牛虻(Gadfly)”，它的最初设计诞生于上世纪70年代。俄罗斯和乌克兰的防空部门都存有它的后继型号。Buk系统是车载且自动推进的，这意味着它可以在战场中移动，因而难以被追踪。
For ordnance, the SA-11 system fires roughly 18-foot-long missiles that can reach much higher than the reported altitude — 33,000 feet — of the Malaysian passenger jet. (Some variants of the missiles can reach above 70,000 feet.) Each missile carries a large high-explosive warhead, against which a thin-skinned Boeing 777 would have no defense.
SA-11导弹系统发射的导弹长约18英尺（约合5.5米），可以抵达的高度远远超过马来西亚客机据称的飞行高度33000英尺。（有些型号甚至可以抵达7万英尺以上的高空。）每颗导弹都携带着一枚巨大的高爆弹头，外壳轻薄的波音777对这种弹头毫无防御能力。
SA-11s are normally operated in a battery, with a command vehicle and a separate target-acquisition radar. According to a written analysis by Doug Richardson of IHS Jane’s, a sole SA-11 vehicle “can also operate in stand-alone mode.”
SA-11导弹通常在作战单元中进行发射，作战单元还包括一个控制车和一个独立的目标探测雷达。根据简氏信息集团(IHS Jane's)的道格·理查森(Doug Richardson)撰写的书面分析，一辆单独的SA-11发射车“也能在独立模式中实施发射”。
“Its built-in radar is normally used to track the target being engaged, but can be operated in a target-detection mode, allowing it to autonomously engage targets that were present in the radar’s forward field of view,” he wrote.
“其内置雷达通常用于追踪交战目标，但也能在目标探测模式中操作，这样一来，导弹就可以自动攻击雷达前方视野中的目标，”他写道。
This would mean the separatists might be capable of using an SA-11, too, even without a full battery. (Recent interviews with rebels by The New York Times found that many were veterans of the Soviet or Ukrainian militaries, including air-defense units.)
这就意味着，即使没有完整的作战单元，分裂分子或许也能够使用SA-11。（《纽约时报》在最近对叛乱者的采访中发现，他们中的许多人是前苏联或乌克兰军方的老兵，包括来自防空部队的老兵。）
But whether the rebels possess SA-11s, as part of a battery or otherwise, is an unsettled question.
但无论是作战单元还是其他形式，叛乱分子是否拥有SA-11仍然是一个待解的问题。
Ukrainian and American officials have accused Russia of providing the separatists with many sophisticated and powerful weapons, and the rebels have also captured many Ukrainian weapons, meaning they could have obtained SA-11s from either source.
乌克兰和美国官员曾指责俄罗斯为分裂分子提供了许多精密而强大的武器，叛乱分子还夺得了许多乌克兰的武器，这意味着他们可能通过其中任何一种渠道获得SA-11。
A social media post attributed to Igor Strelkov, the shadowy pro-Russian commander, showed him claiming to have captured Buk missiles. That claim has not been verified independently, and the rebels have been given to boasts.
据信来自神秘的亲俄罗斯指挥官伊戈尔·斯特雷科夫(Igor Strelkov)的社交媒体发帖显示，他声称已经得到了Buk导弹。这一说法没有被独立证实，而且叛乱分子也常常喜欢夸夸其谈。