Markets in Asia were trading lower on Wednesday morning, as investors reacted to early results and predictions for the United States elections, which showed gains for Donald J. Trump in crucial states.
周三，美国大选初步结果及预测信息显示，唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在一些关键州颇有斩获，投资者对此作出反应，亚州市场应声下挫。
Stocks in Tokyo, Hong Kong and other major markets were down by more than 1 percent as of midmorning, after shares in Tokyo initially opened higher.
尽管东京股市高开，但截至上午十点左右，东京、香港等主要市场的股价均下挫超过1%。
In some cases, early trading seesawed, tracking live election returns for battleground states like Florida.
早盘有时随着佛罗里达州等关键州实时选情的变化而出现相应波动。
“We’ve seen reactions to swings back and forth from Hillary to Donald,” Stephen Innes, a senior currency trader at Oanda in Singapore, said in a phone interview, referring to the nominees, Hillary Clinton and Mr. Trump. The Japanese yen and Mexican peso in particular were weakening significantly in Asian trading, he said, whenever live election results from Florida showed gains for Mr. Trump, the Republican nominee.
“我们已经看到了市场在希拉里和唐纳德你追我赶之际作出的反应，”万达(Oanda)驻新加坡资深外汇交易员斯蒂芬·英尼斯(Stephen Innes)接受电话采访时说，他提到的是希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和唐纳德·特朗普这两位候选人。他说，每当佛罗里达州的实时选情显示共和党候选人特朗普领先的时候，在亚洲市场的交易中，日元和墨西哥比索会尤其呈现出明显的疲弱态势。
However, Mr. Innes added that overall volumes were light, suggesting that many investors were taking a wait-and-see approach until results became clearer.
不过，英尼斯还表示，交易总量很小，这意味着许多投资者采取的是观望策略，会等到选情明朗再做定夺。
Traders “aren’t taking on an ultimate amount of risk at the moment and are waiting for the dust to actually settle,” he said. “The lack of liquidity is amplifying these moves.”
交易员们“眼下不愿冒太大风险，正等待尘埃落定，”他说。“流动性的缺乏正让这些顿挫得到强化。”
The mixed reaction in early trading on Wednesday followed a spell when investors around the world appeared to have been on edge over the United States election.
在世界各地的投资者似乎全都紧张不安地等待美国大选结果出炉之际，周三早盘中的复杂反应遵循了一个魔咒。
In recent weeks, in tune with what appeared to be the improving fortunes of Mr. Trump, the markets took on a darker tone as retail investors pulled money out of equity funds and institutional players unloaded some of their riskier investments such as high-yield bonds.
最近几周，随着特朗普的获胜几率有所上升，市场的基调变得更加黯淡，个人投资者纷纷把钱撤出股票型基金，机构投资者则抛出了手头的一些风险较大的投资产品，比如高收益债券。
Last week, for example, investors pulled $3 billion out of junk bond exchange-traded funds, the largest weekly outflow all year.
举个例子，投资者上周从垃圾债券交易所交易基金中撤出了30亿美元，创下今年的单周撤资量新高。