COLUMBIA, Mo. — Jilly Dos Santos really did try to get to school on time. She set three successive alarms on her phone. Skipped breakfast. Hastily applied makeup while her fuming father drove. But last year she rarely made it into the frantic scrum at the doors of Rock Bridge High School in here by the first bell, at 7:50 a.m.
密苏里州哥伦比亚市——为了准时到学校，吉莉·多斯桑托斯(Jilly Dos Santos)真的尽力了。她连续在手机上设了三个闹钟。连早餐都没吃。在她的父亲气冲冲地驾车的途中，她匆匆忙忙地化了妆。然而去年，在第一遍早铃于7点50分响起时，她难得有几次能冲到石桥高中(Rock Bridge High School)那挤得人仰马翻的大门口。
Then she heard that the school board was about to make the day start even earlier, at 7:20 a.m.
然后她听说，教育委员会准备把早上的入校时间提前到更早的7点20分。
“I thought, if that happens, I will die,” recalled Dos Santos, 17. “I will drop out of school!”
17岁的多斯桑托斯回忆说，“我想着，如果真那么干，我会完蛋的。我会毕不了业。”
That was when the sleep-deprived teenager turned into a sleep activist. She was determined to convince the board of a truth she knew in the core of her tired, lanky body: Teenagers are developmentally driven to be late to bed, late to rise. Could the board realign the first bell with that biological reality?
就在那一刻，睡眠不良的女孩变成了睡眠维权者。她决意劝说委员会相信她从自己疲惫而瘦长的身体内部了解来的一个真相，即青少年因为发育需要晚睡晚起。董事会能不能根据这个生物学现实，调整第一遍早铃的时间？
The sputtering, nearly 20-year movement to start high schools later has recently gained momentum in communities like this one, as hundreds of schools in dozens of districts across the country have bowed to the accumulating research on the adolescent body clock.
在多斯桑托斯居住的那一类社区，这场时起时落、持续了近20年的中学晚开课运动，最近加强了势头。在日积月累的青少年生物钟研究成果面前，全国有数十个学区的数百所学校做出了让步。
In just the last two years, high schools in Long Beach, Calif.; Stillwater, Okla.; Decatur, Ga.;, and Glens Falls, N.Y., have pushed back their first bells, joining early adopters in Connecticut, North Carolina, Kentucky and Minnesota. The Seattle school board will vote this month on whether to pursue the issue. The superintendent of Montgomery County, Md., supports the shift, and the school board for Fairfax County, Va., is working with consultants to develop options for starts after 8 a.m.
仅在过去两年内，就有一些中学加入了康涅狄格州、北卡罗来纳州、肯塔基州和明尼苏达州等早一拨调整中学开课时间的州的行列，推迟了学校的第一遍早铃，随后加入的中学分布在加利福尼亚州的长岛、奥克拉荷马州的斯蒂尔沃特、佐治亚州的迪凯特，以及纽约州的格伦斯福尔斯。西雅图教育委员会将在本月投票表决是否跟进这个议题。马里兰州蒙哥马利县的学监支持这一转变，弗吉尼亚州费尔法克斯县的教育委员会正在和顾问们合作，研究在早8点以后上课的选项。
New evidence suggests that later high school starts have widespread benefits. Researchers at the University of Minnesota, funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, studied eight high schools in three states before and after they moved to later start times in recent years. In results released Wednesday they found that the later a school's start time, the better off the students were in many measures, including mental health, car crash rates, attendance and, in some schools, grades and standardized test scores.
新证据表明，开课时间较晚的中学获得了广泛的益处。明尼苏达大学(University of Minnesota)的研究人员在美国疾病控制与预防中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）的资助下，研究了三个州的八所中学最近几年内在推迟开课时间之前和之后的不同状态。在本周三公布的研究结果中，他们得出结论，一所学校每日开课的时间越晚，学生们的许多衡量指标，包括精神健康、撞车事故率、考勤率都会更佳，在一些学校，学生的分数和标准化考试成绩会更高。
Dr. Elizabeth Miller, chief of adolescent medicine at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, who was not involved in the research, noted that the study was not a randomized controlled trial, which would have compared schools that had changed times with similar schools that had not. But she said its methods were pragmatic and its findings promising.
没有参与前述研究的匹兹堡儿童医院(Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh)青少年医学主管伊丽莎白·米勒(Elizabeth Miller)医生注意到，这项研究不是一种随机对照试验。随机对照试验会把情况类似的已改变时间的学校和未改变时间的学校进行比较。不过她说，这项研究的方法是务实的，其结论很有意义。
“Even schools with limited resources can make this one policy change with what appears to be benefits for their students,” Miller said.
米勒说，“即使是资源有限的学校，也能实施这种似乎能让学生受益的政策变革。”
Researchers have found that during adolescence, as hormones surge and the brain develops, teenagers who regularly sleep eight to nine hours a night learn better and are less likely to be tardy, get in fights or suffer athletic injuries. Sleeping well can also help moderate their tendency toward impulsive or risky decision-making.
研究人员已经发现，在青少年时期，由于激素飙升和大脑发育，每晚有规律地睡八到九个小时的青少年能获得更好的学习效果，他们拖拖拉拉、打架斗殴或者遭受运动损伤的几率也更小。睡好觉还能有助于减弱他们做出冲动或冒险决定的倾向。
During puberty, teenagers have a later release of the “sleep” hormone melatonin, which means they tend not to feel drowsy until around 11 p.m. That inclination can be further delayed by the stimulating blue light from electronic devices, which tricks the brain into sensing wakeful daylight, slowing the release of melatonin and the onset of sleep. The Minnesota study noted that 88 percent of the students kept a cellphone in their bedroom.
青春期的青少年释放“睡眠”褪黑素的时间会更晚，这意味着，在晚11点左右以前，他们是不会觉得昏昏欲睡的。这种晚睡倾向会被电子设备发出的刺眼蓝光进一步延后，因为蓝光会欺骗大脑，让它误以为感觉到了令人清醒的日光，从而延缓褪黑素的释放和睡眠状态的降临。明尼苏达大学的研究指出，88%的学生卧室都放有手机。
But many parents, and some students, object to shifting the start of the day later. They say doing so makes sports practices end late, jeopardizes student jobs, bites into time for homework and extracurricular activities, and upsets the morning routine for working parents and younger children.
不过，有许多家长和部分学生反对推迟开课时间。他们说，这么做会让体育锻炼的结束时间被延后，危及学生的兼职工作，侵占他们做家庭作业和进行课外活动的时间，并且还会打乱上班的家长和更年幼的子女早上常规的时间安排。
At heart, though, experts say, the resistance is driven by skepticism about the primacy of sleep.
然而，一些专家表示，该提议遭到抵制的根本原因，是对睡眠至上论的怀疑。
“It's still a badge of honor to get five hours of sleep,” said Dr. Judith Owens, a sleep expert at the Children's National Medical Center in Washington. “It supposedly means you're working harder, and that's a good thing. So there has to be a cultural shift around sleep.”
位于华盛顿的国家儿童医学中心(Children's National Medical Center)的睡眠专家朱迪丝·欧文斯(Judith Owens)博士说，“只睡五小时依然是一种荣誉。据说它意味着你学习得更刻苦，而那是一件好事。所以，必须得在文化上转变人们的睡眠观念。”
In Columbia, Dos Santos created a Facebook page and set up a Twitter account, alerting hundreds of students about the school board meeting on moving up the start of the school day: “Be there to have a say in your school district's decisions on school start times!”
在哥伦比亚，多斯桑托斯创建了一个Facebook页面和一个Twitter账号，提醒数百名学生，教育委员会计划召开提前上学时间的会议：“出席会议，在学区决定开课时间的会议上发出声音。”
She then got in touch with Start School Later, a nonprofit group that provided her with scientific ammunition. She recruited friends and divided up sleep-research topics. With a blast of emails, she tried to enlist the help of every high school teacher in the district. She started an online petition.
然后，她联系了非盈利机构“晚点开课”(Start School Later)，从那里获取科学证据的支持。她招募友人，分工负责睡眠研究的不同话题。借助电子邮件攻势，她努力争取学区内每一名高中教师的帮助。她还发起了网上请愿活动。
The testy school board meeting on the subject was packed. Dos Santos, wearing a demure, ruffled white blouse and skirt, addressed the board, blinking owllike. The dignitaries' faces were a blur to her because while nervously rubbing her eyes, she had removed her contact lenses.
就这一议题进行的教育委员会会议座无虚席，气氛紧张。多斯桑托斯身穿庄重的褶边白衬衫和裙子，在委员面前发表演说。她的眼睛眨得像猫头鹰一样，在她看来，校董们的脸模糊不清，因为她紧张地揉眼睛的时候，把隐形眼镜给搓掉了。
But she spoke coolly about the adolescent sleep cycle: “You know, kids don't want to get up,” she said. “I know I don't. Biologically, we've looked into that.”
不过，她冷静地谈到青少年的睡眠周期。“你们知道，孩子们不想起床，”她说。“我知道自己不想起床。我们从生物学的角度研究了这件事。”
The board heatedly debated the issue and decided against the earlier start time.
校董会就这一话题进行了激烈辩论，最终决定不提前上课时间。
The next day Dos Santos turned to campaigning for a later start time, joining a movement that has been gaining support. A 2011 report by the Brookings Institution recommended later start times for high schools, and last summer Arne Duncan, the secretary of education, posted his endorsement of the idea on Twitter.
第二天，多斯桑托斯开始为推迟上学时间奔走，投身到这场越来越得到支持的运动中去。布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)2011年发布了一份报告，建议高中晚些时间开课。去年夏天，教育部长阿恩·邓肯(Arne Duncan)也在Twitter上发帖宣告自己的支持。
The University of Minnesota study tracked 9,000 high school students in five districts in Colorado, Wyoming and Minnesota before and after schools shifted start times. In those that originally started at 7:30 a.m., only a third of students said they were able to get eight or more hours of sleep. Students who got less than that reported significantly more symptoms of depression, and greater use of caffeine, alcohol and illegal drugs than better-rested peers.
明尼苏达大学的研究追踪了科罗拉多、怀俄明和明尼苏达三州五个学区的9000名高中生，比较了学校改变开课时间前后的情况。在原本7点半上学的学生中，仅三分之一表示能睡足八个小时。比起休息得更好的同龄人，睡眠不足八个小时的学生报告的抑郁症状显著增加，也更多地求助于咖啡因、酒精与非法药物。
“It's biological — the mental health outcomes were identical from inner-city kids and affluent kids,” said Kyla Wahlstrom, a professor of educational research at the University of Minnesota and the lead author of the study.
研究论文的第一作者、明尼苏达大学的教育研究教授凯拉·瓦尔斯特罗姆(Kyla Wahlstrom)说，“这是生物性的。精神健康方面的结论与对内城儿童和富裕儿童的研究结果一致。”
Many researchers say that quality sleep directly affects learning because people store new facts during deep-sleep cycles. During the rapid-eye-movement phases, the brain is wildly active, sorting and categorizing the day's data. The more sleep a teenager gets, the better the information is absorbed.
许多研究者认为，睡眠质量直接影响学习，因为人类在深层睡眠状态下存储新的知识。在快速眼动期，脑部异常活跃，整理并归类白天的数据。睡得越多，青少年就能越好地吸收信息。