A student at the University of Hartford in Connecticut was charged with criminal mischief and expelled from school after boasting about having contaminated her roommate’s toothbrush, face lotion and other belongings in an effort to drive her from the room.
康涅狄格州哈特福德大学(University of Hartford)一名学生被指控犯有毁坏财物罪，并被学校开除，原因是她自夸污损了室友的牙刷、护肤乳及其他物品，以将室友赶出宿舍。
The student, Brianna Brochu, 18, was in court Wednesday for charges that originated with an Instagram post in which she said she had finally accomplished what had apparently been a long-held goal: ridding herself of her dorm roommate, Chennel Rowe, whom she referred to as “Jamaican Barbie.”
该18岁学生布里安娜·布罗许(Brianna Brochu)于周三出庭。指控源于她在Instagram上发布的内容。她写道，自己终于完成了一个显然长远计划过的目标：摆脱被她称为“牙买加芭比”的舍友晨尼尔·罗(Chennel Rowe)。
“After one and a half months spitting in her coconut oil, putting moldy clam dip in her lotions, rubbing used tampons on her backpack, putting her toothbrush places where the sun doesn’t shine, and so much more, I can finally say goodbye to Jamaican Barbie,” said the post, which has since been deleted. Brochu is white; Rowe is black.
“这一个半月以来，我往她的椰子油里吐口水、往她的护肤乳液里加发霉的蛤蜊酱、拿用过的卫生棉条往她背包上擦、把她的牙刷放到太阳晒不到的地方，等等。现在我终于可以和牙买加芭比说再见了，”帖子里写道。该帖已被删除。布罗许是白人，罗是黑人。
Lt. Michael Perruccio of the West Hartford Police Department said that the police began investigating the report on Oct. 18 and that Brochu turned herself in Saturday.
西哈特福德警察局的迈克尔·佩鲁齐奥(Michael Perruccio)中尉表示，警方于10月18日开始对接到的这起报案进行调查，布罗许于周六自首。
On Wednesday, the police department said it would be requesting that Brochu be charged with intimidation based on bigotry or bias. And the university announced that she was no longer a student and would not be returning.
警察局于周三表示，将就布罗许基于偏见和歧视的威胁行为，对她提起诉讼。校方也宣布她已失去学生身份，不得返校。
“As of this morning, Brianna Brochu is no longer a student at the University of Hartford,” said the school’s president, Gregory S. Woodward. “She will not be returning to the institution.”
“截止今早，布里安娜·布罗许已经不再是哈特福德大学的学生，”校长格雷戈里·S·伍德沃德(Gregory S. Woodward)说，“她将不得返校。”
Rowe, a freshman at the university, described her roommate’s behavior in a Facebook video Monday, and accused the school of attempting to keep the episode quiet.
罗是该校的大一新生。周一时她发布了一则Facebook视频，描述了室友的行为，还指责学校试图压下这个事件。
She said that the revelations, posted on Instagram as she was moving out, had helped explain why she had been sick early in the school year, suffering from extreme throat pain that eventually made it difficult to sleep or speak.
她说，在她搬走时发布在Instagram的曝光内容解释了为什么她这个学期早些时候会生病，并感觉喉咙极度疼痛，以至于难以入睡或说话。
Rowe said that she and Brochu had been placed together randomly and that their relationship had been tense.
罗表示她和布罗许是被随机分到一起的，她们的关系一直都很紧张。
“I moved out because I felt like I was unwanted in my own room,” she said.
“我搬走是因为我在自己的房间里感觉不受欢迎。”她说。
As she was in the process of moving, Rowe said, other residents approached her about several posts Brochu had made on social media. They included pictures of bloodstains on Rowe’s backpack and videos of Rowe eating, with comments suggesting that the utensils she was using had been contaminated.
在她搬家的过程中，罗说，其他住户找过她，告诉她布罗许在社交网络上发的几个帖子，其中有罗沾血背包的照片，以及罗吃东西的视频。布罗许在评论中指出，罗用的餐具被污染了。
Brochu had already been charged by the time Rowe posted the video. But Rowe expressed frustration that it had taken so long for Brochu to be punished.
在罗发布视频的时候，布罗许已经遭到指控。但罗对经过了这么长的时间才让布罗许获得惩罚表示失望。
She said that school authorities had told her if she spoke out about the situation, she could be removed from her campus residence. And she said that race had been a factor in the school’s response, speculating that if she were white and Brochu were black, the investigation would have been more urgent.
她说，校方告诉她，如果她把情况往外说，她可能会失去在校住宿的资格。她还表示，在学校的反应中，种族也是个很大因素；如果她是白人而布罗许是黑人，调查或许会更急切。
“If the race roles were reversed, I feel like this would have gone down a different route,” she said.
“如果种族角色互换，我感觉事情的发展会很不一样。”她说。
The university’s undergraduate student body is 15 percent African-American, according to statistics posted on its website.
根据该校网页上的数据显示，该校非裔美国本科生占15%。
Rowe did not respond to emails requesting further comment on Wednesday.
罗周三没有回复请其进一步置评的邮件。
Her video catapulted her experience into the news, with the hashtag #justiceforjazzy — based on the name she uses on Facebook — being used to spread her story.
她的视频让自己的经历成了新闻，她的故事随着标签#justiceforjazzy（意为“为杰茜争取正义”——译注）广泛流传。这个标签是根据她在Facebook上的名字所起的。
In a statement posted online Tuesday, Woodward called Brochu’s behavior “reprehensible” and said that he was confident that the university had pursued the matter seriously.
在周二发布在网上的一份声明中，伍德沃德称布罗许的行为“应该受到谴责”，并表示他相信学校会严肃追查此事。
“The university strictly and swiftly followed all procedural and legal processes related to this alleged event; claims to the contrary are based on misinformation,” he said. “The incident has brought about accusations of racism, and I want you to know that I hear and share your anger and frustration. Acts of racism, bias, bullying, or other abusive behaviors will not be tolerated on this campus.”
“学校严格并迅速地关注着和该事件有关的一切程序上和司法上的进展，与此相反的说法都是基于不实信息，”他说。“此事引发了对种族主义的指控，我希望你们知道，我听到了，并且理解你们的愤怒和不满。本校绝不容忍种族主义、偏见、欺凌或其他虐待行为。”
Woodward followed up Wednesday with the statement announcing Brochu’s expulsion. That statement clarified the timeline, saying that the school’s public safety department became involved on Oct. 17 and that the case was turned over to the local authorities early the next day.
伍德沃德周三继续发布声明，宣布开除布罗许。声明澄清了事情的发展过程，称学校公共安全部门于10月17日介入，案件第二天一早被移交给地方当局。
A spokeswoman for the university did not respond to questions about Rowe’s claims and about whether Woodward was accusing Rowe of spreading misinformation.
学校发言人没有回复有关罗的说法，以及伍德沃德是否在声明中指责罗散布不实信息的问题。