WASHINGTON — Most nations, including many close allies of the United States, require up to a week’s notice before American warplanes are allowed to cross their territory. Not Egypt, which offers near-automatic approval for military overflights, to resupply the war effort in Afghanistan or to carry out counterterrorism operations in the Middle East, Southwest Asia or the Horn of Africa.
华盛顿——大多数国家，包括美国的很多亲密盟友，都要求美国战机若要穿越其领空需提前知会，最多的需要提前一周。但埃及除外，为了让美军给阿富汗的战争行动提供补给，或者在中东、西南亚及非洲之角开展反恐行动，埃及几乎是不假思索地批准美军飞越其领空。
Losing that route could significantly increase flight times to the region.
失去这条航线会致使前往该地区的飞行时间大幅增加。
American warships are also allowed to cut to the front of the line through the Suez Canal in times of crisis, even when oil tankers are stacked up like cars on an interstate highway at rush hour. Without Egypt’s cooperation, military missions could take days longer.
美国战舰也获准在遇到危机时可以优先通过苏伊士运河，哪怕油轮像在交通高峰期的州际公路一样排起长队。没有埃及的合作，军事任务的时间可能要延长数日。
Those are some of the largely invisible ways the Egyptian military has assisted the United States as it pursues its national security interests across the region — and why the generals now in charge in Cairo are not without their own leverage in dealing with Washington in the aftermath of President Obama’s condemnation Thursday of the military’s bloody crackdown on supporters of the former president, Mohamed Morsi.
这就是美国在该地区寻求国家安全利益时，埃及军方给予的一些外界很难看到的协助，也是在奥巴马总统于周四谴责军方血腥镇压前总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)的支持者后，开罗那些大权在握的将领们在和华盛顿打交道时倚仗的优势。
In his first overtly punitive step, Mr. Obama canceled the Bright Star military exercise, the largest and most visible sign of cooperation between the armed forces of the two nations. But given the growing violence in Egypt, it might have been impossible to guarantee the safety of the thousands of American troops scheduled to deploy for the war game, and the decision to call it off might have been the wise move regardless of the politics.
奥巴马总统的第一项公开惩罚举措是取消名为“明星”(Bright Star)的军事演习，这是两国军队之间规模最大的合作行动，同时也是这种合作关系最有力的表示。但鉴于埃及的暴力事件不断升级，埃及可能无法保证计划参加此次军事演习的数千名美国士兵的安全，取消军演的决定可能是一个明智之举，不管这会带来怎样的政治问题。
For the Pentagon, which had earlier delayed the delivery of four F-16 fighter jets to the Egyptian Air Force, other steps might be more difficult.
国防部早些时候已经推迟向埃及空军交付四架F-16战斗机，对于国防部来说，其他举措实施起来可能就没这么容易了。
“We need them for the Suez Canal, we need them for the peace treaty with Israel, we need them for the overflights, and we need them for the continued fight against violent extremists who are as much of a threat to Egypt’s transition to democracy as they are to American interests,” said Gen. James N. Mattis, who retired this year as head of the military’s Central Command.
今年退休的原美军中央司令部(Central Command)司令詹姆斯·马蒂斯上将(Gen. James N. Mattis)表示，“我们需要他们的苏伊士运河，需要他们与以色列签订的和平协定，需要他们允许我们飞越领空，需要他们支持我们针对暴力极端分子的持续斗争，这些极端分子对埃及的民主过渡进程造成威胁，同样也对美国利益造成威胁。”
While a cozy relationship with the Egyptian military might be preferable for American interests to a radicalized, hostile government in Cairo, there is also a threshold of violence — still unknown — that, if passed, would make it impossible for the Defense Department to continue its dealings there.
虽然对美国来说，与埃及军方维持和睦关系比开罗建立一个激进、敌视美国的政府更有利，但美国还是有一个暴力的底限——具体在哪里未知，如果埃及跨越了这个底限，国防部将无法继续与埃及军方合作。
As Egyptian generals familiar with the American military are no doubt aware, there have been instances when the United States restricted or even severed military-to-military relations with a useful ally, for periods both long and short, because of authoritarian practices, human rights violations or security policies at odds with those of the United States. Among the examples are Indonesia, Pakistan and the Philippines.
与美国军方关系密切的埃及将领们肯定知道这样的例子，美国曾因为威权统治、侵犯人权及安全政策与自身出现矛盾，因而短期或长期限制、甚至断绝与有利用价值的同盟之间的军事合作关系。比如印度尼西亚、巴基斯坦及菲律宾。
In the meantime, Obama administration officials are taking a hard look at possible incentives and punishments that might compel the generals in Cairo to end the crackdown and open a dialogue on transition to democratic governance.
同时，奥巴马政府官员正在认真考虑一些可能的激励和惩罚措施，促使埃及将领结束镇压行动，开启向民主管理过渡的对话。
“The violence is intolerable, but clearly they feel the nation of Egypt is facing a sovereign, existential crisis,” said one Obama administration official. “So while the violence is intolerable, we may be able to eventually accept these decisions if the violence ends, and quickly.”
“暴行是不能容忍的，但是显然他们感觉到埃及正面临着一场关乎主权和存亡的危机，”奥巴马政府的一名官员说。“所以尽管暴行不能容忍，但如果暴力能终止，并且很快终止，那么我们或许最终能接受这些决定。”
The risk is that the United States may be left standing by as its allies in the Egyptian military lose control of the crisis.
风险就在于，一旦埃及军方的盟友对危机失去控制，美国可能要做好行动准备。
For decades the Egyptians have helped the American military in ways that are largely unknown to the American public, said Robert Springborg, a professor at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif., and an expert on the Egyptian military. Mr. Springborg noted that in the run-up to the invasion of Iraq in 2003 — after the Turkish Parliament refused to allow the American military to use Turkish territory for crossing into Iraq from the north — Egypt gave the Pentagon immediate access for two aircraft battle groups and accompanying aircraft through the Suez Canal and across its territory.
加利福尼亚蒙特雷的海军研究生院(Naval Postgraduate School)教授、熟悉埃及军队的专家罗伯特·斯普林堡(Robert Springborg)说，数十年来，埃及人在很多方面为美国军队提供了帮助，而美国公众对这些基本不了解。斯普林堡指出，2003年，在美国入侵伊拉克的准备阶段——在土耳其议会拒绝让美军利用土耳其领土从北边进入伊拉克之后——埃及立刻为五角大楼提供途径，允许美国的两个空战组和随行飞机通过苏伊士运河和飞越埃及领空。
Given the number of countries in the region that do not allow American military overflights, especially for combat missions, Egypt’s location makes it a vital, and relatively direct, access route to an unstable crescent of strategic importance.
鉴于该地区的很多国家都不允许美军飞越其领空（尤其是在执行战斗任务时），对于这个具有战略重要性而又缺乏稳定的新月状地带来说，埃及的地理位置使它成了一个关键而相对直接的进入路径。
Egypt’s role in the Camp David agreements has also been of critical value for America’s closest ally in the region, Israel. In the four decades before Camp David, Israel and Egypt fought several major wars; in the nearly four decades since, none. Even in the current crisis, the military communications systems established by Camp David to link Israel and Egypt have helped defuse tensions. When Egypt recently moved additional troops into the Sinai Peninsula — in violation of the accords — Israel quietly assented, knowing that the extra forces were to secure the border and tamp down rising militant activities.
埃及在戴维营(Camp David)协议中的角色对美国在该地区最亲密的盟友以色列具有重要意义。在戴维营协议签署前的40年间，以色列和埃及爆发了几次大规模战争；而在该协议签署后的40年间则未发生任何战争。即便在目前的危机中，戴维营协议为促进埃以沟通而建立的军事通讯系统也在缓解紧张方面发挥了作用。虽然埃及近期向西奈半岛增兵的做法违反了戴维营协议，但以色列却默许了这种行为，因为它知道增加军队是为了保证边境安全以及镇压正在升级的激进活动。
The Obama administration has notably avoided threatening to cut off the $1.3 billion in annual military assistance to Egypt, recognizing that the money has helped guarantee peace with Israel for the past 35 years.
众所周知，奥巴马政府并未提及要暂停对埃及每年13亿美元的军事援助，这是因为美方也承认，在过去35年间，这笔钱对维持与以色列的和平状态有帮助。
American officials looking at ways to punish the Egyptian military for the order to clear Muslim Brotherhood protest sites have looked to the lesson of Pakistan, which came under economic sanctions for its nuclear program.
对于下令对穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)抗议地点进行清场的埃及军方，美国官方正在寻找惩罚措施，这方面他们吸取了巴勒斯坦的教训。后者因为核计划而受到了经济制裁。
Among the actions taken was ending a program of inviting young Pakistani military officers to attend armed service academic programs in the United States. One result has been a generation of Pakistani officers with no affinity for — and, more often, hostility toward — the American military. A similar result could occur if the next generation of promising Egyptian officers were not invited to American military schools.
美方所采取的惩罚行动包括终止一项邀请巴基斯坦青年军官来美国参加武装部队学术项目的计划。这个做法导致整整一代巴基斯坦军官对美军毫无好感——而且往往还会持有敌意。如果下一代年轻有为的埃及军官没有得到美国军校的邀请，就可能会产生相似的后果。