Nancy Reagan, the influential and stylish wife of the 40th president of the United States who unabashedly put Ronald Reagan at the center of her life but became a political figure in her own right, died on Sunday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 94.
美国第40任总统罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的妻子南希·里根(Nancy Reagan)周日在洛杉矶家中去世，享年94岁。这位极具影响力且气度不凡的第一夫人，光明正大地以丈夫为生活的中心，但自己也成为了一个政治人物。
The cause was congestive heart failure, according to a statement from Joanne Drake, a spokeswoman for Mrs. Reagan.
南希·里根的发言人乔安·德雷克(Joanne Drake)发表声明，称她死于充血性心脏衰竭。
Mrs. Reagan was a fierce guardian of her husband’s image, sometimes at the expense of her own, and during Mr. Reagan’s improbable climb from a Hollywood acting career to the governorship of California and ultimately the White House, she was a trusted adviser.
南希·里根竭力捍卫丈夫的形象，有时不惜牺牲自己的形象。里根从一名好莱坞演员成为加州州长，最终入主白宫，在这段看似不可能的崛起历程中，她是一个备受信赖的顾问。
“Without Nancy, there would have been no Governor Reagan, no President Reagan,” said Michael K. Deaver, the longtime aide and close friend of the Reagans who died in 2007.
“没有南希，就不会有里根州长，不会有里根总统，”2007年去世的迈克尔·K·迪弗(Michael K. Deaver)曾说过。迪弗长期担任里根夫妇的助手，也是他们的亲密朋友。
President Obama said on Sunday that Mrs. Reagan “had redefined the role” of first lady, adding, “Later, in her long goodbye with President Reagan, she became a voice on behalf of millions of families going through the depleting, aching reality of Alzheimer’s, and took on a new role, as advocate, on behalf of treatments that hold the potential and the promise to improve and save lives.”
奥巴马总统周日表示，南希·里根“重新定义了第一夫人的角色”，“后来在她与里根总统的漫长道别中，她成了千百万饱受阿尔茨海默氏症折磨和伤害的家庭的代言人，并且担负起倡导者的新角色，宣传那些有望改善和拯救生命的治疗方法。”
Mrs. Reagan helped hire and fire the political consultants who ran her husband’s near-miss campaign for the Republican presidential nomination in 1976 and his successful campaign for the presidency in 1980.
南希·里根曾协助聘用和解聘丈夫的政治顾问，在这些顾问的辅佐下，里根在1976年几乎取得共和党总统提名，并在1980年成功当选总统。
She also played a seminal role in the 1987 ouster of the White House chief of staff, Donald T. Regan, whom Mrs. Reagan blamed for ineptness after it was disclosed that Mr. Reagan had secretly approved arms sales to Iran.
她还在1987年白宫幕僚长唐纳德·T·瑞根(Donald T. Regan)被解职一事中扮演重要角色。在里根总统秘密批准向伊朗出售武器一事被曝光后，南希·里根指责瑞根失职。
Behind the scenes, Mrs. Reagan was the prime mover in Mr. Reagan’s efforts to recover from the scandal, which was known as Iran-contra because some of the proceeds from the sale had been diverted to the contras opposing the leftist government of Nicaragua. While trying to persuade her stubborn husband to apologize for the arms deal, Mrs. Reagan brought political figures into the White House, among them the Democratic power broker Robert S. Strauss, to argue her case to the president.
南希·里根是里根总统摆脱丑闻影响的幕后主导力。由于武器销售所得有一部分落入反尼加拉瓜左翼政府的武装力量手中，该丑闻被称为“伊朗-反政府军”事件(Iran-contra)。里根夫人一边努力说服固执的丈夫为武器交易道歉，一边还将一些政治人物请入白宫，其中包括民主党权力掮客罗伯特·S·施特劳斯(Robert S. Strauss)。
Mr. Reagan eventually conceded that she was right. On March 4, 1987, the president made a distanced apology for the arms sale in a nationally televised address that dramatically improved his slumping public approval ratings.
里根最终承认她是正确的。1987年3月4日，里根总统发表全国电视讲话，为武器销售事件做出迟到的道歉，此举极大地改善了其公众支持率下滑的情况。
His wife, typically, neither sought nor received credit for the turnaround. Mrs. Reagan did not wish to detract from her husband’s luster by appearing to be a power behind the presidential throne.
这次力挽狂澜的功劳一如既往地没有归于他的夫人头上，而她也没有提出过要求。南希·里根并不想显得像是总统宝座背后的一个权力人物，夺走里根的光芒。
Mr. Reagan and Nancy Davis were married on March 4, 1952, at a private ceremony at The Little Brown Church in the Valley, in Studio City. Mr. Holden and his wife, Ardis, were the only witnesses.
1952年3月4日，里根和南希·戴维斯在影视城山谷里的棕色小教堂(The Little Brown Church in the Valley)举行了私人结婚仪式。只有霍尔登(Holden)及其夫人阿迪斯(Ardis)观礼。
Though Mrs. Reagan was not at first keen on her husband’s entry into politics, she loyally supported him. His career took off when he made a rousing nationally televised speech for the Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater on Oct. 27, 1964. The following year a group of wealthy people from Southern California approached Mr. Reagan about running for governor of California. He was interested.
尽管南希起初对丈夫从政并不热心，但她忠心耿耿地支持他。1964年10月27日，里根面向全国发表了一场激动人心的电视讲话，支持共和党总统候选人巴里·戈德华特(Barry Goldwater)。他的政治事业自此开始起飞。第二年，一群来自南加州的富豪找到里根，讨论竞选加州州长一事。里根表示有兴趣。
From the first, Mrs. Reagan was part of the campaign planning. “They were a team,” said Stuart Spencer, who with Bill Roberts managed the Reagan campaign. New to politics, she said little at first. But Mr. Spencer found her “a quick learner, always absorbing.” Before long she was peppering Mr. Roberts and Mr. Spencer about their strategy and tactics.
从一开始，南希就参与了竞选策划。“他们是一个团队，”和比尔·罗伯茨(Bill Roberts)一同管理里根竞选团队的斯图尔特·斯潘塞(Stuart Spencer)说。起初，作为政治新手的南希说得很少。但斯潘塞发现，她“学得很快，总是在吸收新知识”。不久后，她就开始向罗伯茨和斯潘塞不断询问战略战术了。
Mr. Reagan won a contested Republican primary and then a landslide victory in November against the Democratic incumbent, Gov. Edmund G. Brown. For the Reagans, that meant a 350-mile move to the state capital, Sacramento.
里根赢得了竞争激烈的共和党初选，并于11月大胜民主党时任州长埃德蒙·G·布朗(Edmund G. Brown)。对里根一家来说，这意味着要举家搬往350英里外的加州首府萨克拉门托。
Governor Reagan left office in 1975. With President Richard M. Nixon enmeshed in the Watergate scandal, the Reagans had already begun planning their next political move. In May 1974, they met with supporters at their home in Pacific Palisades. Among them was John P. Sears, a Washington lawyer who had worked for Mr. Nixon’s presidential campaign in 1960. Mr. Sears, alone of those who attended the meeting, predicted the Nixon resignation. That made an impression on Mrs. Reagan.
1975年，里根卸任州长。在理查德·M·尼克松(Richard M. Nixon)总统陷入“水门”丑闻时，里根一家就已经开始计划下一步政治行动了。1974年5月，他们在位于太平洋帕利塞兹的家里与支持者见面，华盛顿律师约翰·P·西尔斯(John P. Sears)便是其中之一。西尔斯曾在1960年为尼克松的总统竞选效力。参与会面的支持者中，唯有西尔斯预言尼克松会辞职。这给南希留下了印象。
After Nixon resigned and was succeeded by Gerald R. Ford, Mr. Reagan began planning to challenge Mr. Ford for the 1976 Republican presidential nomination. Mrs. Reagan recommended hiring Mr. Sears to direct the effort, which Mr. Reagan narrowly lost. (Mr. Ford was then defeated by Jimmy Carter.)
尼克松辞职并被杰拉尔德·R·福特(Gerald R. Ford)接替后，里根开始计划和福特争夺1976年的共和党总统提名。南希建议招募西尔斯指导竞选。后来，里根以微弱的差距败北。（接下来，福特被吉米·卡特[Jimmy Carter]击败。）
Four years later, as Mr. Reagan again sought the nomination, Mrs. Reagan played a leading role in the firing of Mr. Sears. The campaign had just won the New Hampshire primary, but Mrs. Reagan nevertheless came to believe that Mr. Sears was a disruptive influence. She also had a hand in the hiring of his replacement as campaign manager, William J. Casey, whom Mr. Reagan later named director of central intelligence.
四年后，在里根再次谋求总统提名期间，南希在解雇西尔斯一事上发挥了主导作用。当时里根的竞选团队刚拿下新罕布什尔州的初选，但南希却渐渐认为，西尔斯是个破坏因素。她还参与了雇用接替西尔斯担任竞选经理的威廉·J·凯西(William J. Casey)一事。后来，凯西被里根任命为中央情报局长。
But after Mr. Reagan won the nomination and got off to a flustered start in his campaign against President Carter, Mrs. Reagan became critical of Mr. Casey and urged her husband to bring in Stuart Spencer, who had run Mr. Reagan’s first campaign for governor. Mr. Spencer was persona non grata in the Reagan camp because he had managed Mr. Ford’s campaign in 1976. But Mr. Reagan followed his wife’s advice. Mr. Spencer joined the campaign and ran it smoothly.
但里根赢得提名后，他们在对付卡特总统时出师不利。南希变得对凯西不满，并力劝丈夫聘请斯图尔特·斯潘塞。斯潘塞是里根第一次竞选州长时的竞选团队负责人。在里根阵营里，斯潘塞不受欢迎，因为他是福特1976年竞选总统时的竞选经理。但里根听从了妻子的建议。斯潘塞加入里根的竞选团队，并带领其平稳运转。
Not all of her advice was equally good. For instance, she opposed Mr. Spencer’s proposal that her husband debate President Carter. Mr. Reagan decided to debate and did so well that he surged ahead in the polls and won convincingly a week later.
不过，并非她所有的建议都这么好。比如，她反对斯潘塞提出的让里根与卡特总统辩论的建议。但里根决定参加辩论，且表现得非常好，帮他在民调中的支持率大幅飙升，取得了领先，并在一周后令人信服地赢得了大选。
As first lady, Mrs. Reagan traveled throughout the United States and abroad to speak out against drug and alcohol abuse by young Americans and coined the phrase “Just Say No,” which was used in advertising campaigns during the 1980s.
担任第一夫人期间，南希在美国各地和国外发表演讲，大力反对美国年轻人吸毒、酗酒，还创造出了“坚决说不”(Just Say No)这句话。80年代的很多广告宣传都使用了这个说法。
After the presidency, the Reagans returned to Los Angeles and settled in a ranch house in exclusive Bel Air. In 1994, Mr. Reagan learned he had Alzheimer’s disease and announced the diagnosis to the American people in a poignant letter, which Mrs. Reagan had helped him write.
卸任总统后，里根一家回到洛杉矶，在高档社区贝莱尔(Bel Air)的一栋大宅里安顿了下来。1994年，里根得知自己患了阿尔茨海默氏症，并在写给美国民众的公开信中宣布了这一诊断结果。那封令人闻之心酸的信是在南希的帮助下写成的。
At Mr. Reagan’s funeral, at the National Cathedral in Washington, she remained in tight control of her emotions. Then she flew west with the coffin for a burial service at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif., where Mrs. Reagan will also be buried. At the conclusion of the ceremony, at sunset, soldiers and sailors handed Mrs. Reagan a folded American flag. She held it close to her heart, put it down on the coffin, and at last began to cry.
在华盛顿国家大教堂的里根葬礼上，南希严格控制着自己的情绪。随后，她随灵柩乘飞机西行，参加在加州西米谷的罗纳德·里根总统图书馆(Ronald Reagan Presidential Library)举行的下葬仪式。现在，南希也将安葬在那里。在里根的下葬仪式最后，正好是日落时分，军人们将一面美国国旗折叠起来递给了南希。她先是把国旗贴在胸口，然后将它放在灵柩上，终于哭泣起来。