WASHINGTON — In his final years, Osama bin Laden spent his days sending missives to his subordinates, seeking to direct a terror network that appeared to have grown far beyond his control, and working his way through a pile of books that ranged from sober works of history and current affairs to wild conspiracy theories spun by infamous anti-Semites.
华盛顿——在生命的最后几年，奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)日常做的事情包括，给下属发送信函、寻求指挥一个似乎已经扩张到不受自己控制的恐怖主义网络，以及阅读大量书籍——从有关历史和时事的理性著作，到臭名昭著的反犹人士撰写的疯狂阴谋论。
The latest insight into Bin Laden’s life in hiding comes from dozens of documents that American officials say were taken during the raid on his compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, in May 2011 and were declassified on Wednesday.
这些有关本·拉登躲藏期间生活的最新信息出自本周三解密的数十份文件。美国官员称，这些文件是2011年5月突袭其在巴基斯坦阿伯塔巴德的院落时发现的。
The material included nearly 80 documents – most of them letters between Bin Laden and his lieutenants – but the initial buzz generated by the release came largely from the list of books found in Bin Laden’s compound. That appeared to be by design: The Office of the Director of National Intelligence seized on Bin Laden’s reading list to promote the release, titling the web page listing all the now-public material “Bin Laden’s Bookshelf.”
这批材料中包括将近80份文件——其中多数是本拉登和副手之间的信件——不过本次解密首先引爆的话题主要来自在本·拉登的住宅中发现的书单。这似乎是出于精心的安排：国家情报总监办公室(The Office of the Director of National Intelligence)利用本·拉登的阅读书目来宣传这次解密，把刊登所有新公开材料的网页取名为“本·拉登的书架”。
Some of the books taken from his compound would be a familiar sight on the bookshelf of anyone interested in global affairs, such as “Obama’s Wars,” by Bob Woodward, “The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers,” by Paul Kennedy and “Imperial Hubris,” by Michael Scheuer, the former official who once ran the Central Intelligence Agency’s Bin Laden desk.
从他的住宅里发现的一些图书，是对国际事务感兴趣的人的书架上常见的书目，比如鲍勃·伍德沃德(Bob Woodward)的《奥巴马的战争》(Obama's Wars)、保罗·肯尼迪(Paul Kennedy)的《大国的兴衰》(The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers)，以及曾经负责中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)本·拉登调查组的前政府官员迈克尔·朔伊尔(Michael Scheuer)的《帝国的傲慢》(Imperial Hubris)。
Others reveal a more conspiratorial side of Bin Laden, who was believed to have read them in English. He apparently worked his way through conspiracy theory classics such as “Bloodlines of the Illuminati,” by Fritz Springmeier and “Secrets of the Federal Reserve” by Eustace Mullins, a Holocaust denier.
另外的一些书籍则展示了本·拉登阴谋家的一面。据信他读的是这些书的英文版。他似乎看过了阴谋论领域的一些经典著作，比如弗里兹·斯普林梅尔(Fritz Springmeier)的《光明会的血统》(Bloodlines of the Illuminati)，以及否认犹太大屠杀的尤斯塔斯·马林斯(Eustace Mullins)撰写的《美联储的秘密》(Secrets of the Federal Reserve)。
Wednesday’s release comes after years of pressure on the Obama administration to declassify material seized from Bin Laden’s compound. Last year, Congress directed the Office of the Director of National Intelligence to review the material and make public as many as possible.
在周三解密上述信息之前，外界几年来一直在向奥巴马政府施压，要求解密从本·拉登住所获得的资料。去年，国会指示国家情报总监办公室评估这些材料，尽可能多地将它们公之于众。
The review, which began in May 2014, is expected to continue through the summer and into the fall, said Jeffrey S Anchukaitis, a spokesman for the intelligence office. But the White House asked that office and the C.I.A. to begin releasing material immediately because of “the increasing public demand to review those documents,” he said.
情报总监办公室发言人杰弗里·S·安丘凯提斯(Jeffrey S Anchukaitis)表示，评估工作始于2014年5月，并将持续到今年夏秋两季。但他称，白宫要求该办公室和中情局立即开始发布材料，理由是“公众对查阅这些文件的要求日益强烈”。
The timing of the release also gave the administration a chance to indirectly push back on a controversial article about Bin Laden’s death by Seymour M. Hersh’s in The London Review of Books. The article, which was published this month, said the Obama administration had lied about the raid, and claimed that it was staged in cooperation with Pakistan, which had been holding Bin Laden prisoner in his compound.
发布这批文件的时机，也让奥巴马政府有了一个间接反驳关于本·拉登之死的一篇争议性文章的机会。此文于本月发表在《伦敦书评》(London Review of Books)上，作者是西摩·M·赫尔士(Seymour M Hersh)。文中表示奥巴马政府对那次突袭撒了谎，并宣称它是与巴基斯坦联合上演的一出戏——巴基斯坦一直把本·拉登囚禁在他的院落里。
Administration officials have dismissed the article, contesting almost every new detail in it, including Mr. Hersh’s assertion that the material taken from Bin Laden’s compound was actually provided to American intelligence officials by their Pakistani counterparts in the years leading up the Al Qaeda chief’s death.
奥巴马政府的官员对此文表示否定，驳斥了文中的几乎每个新细节，其中包括赫尔士所说的，从本·拉登的住所里拿走的材料其实来自这名基地组织(Al Qaeda)领导人死前的几年，由巴基斯坦情报官员提供给美国同行。
Most of the documents appear to be letters and notes between Bin Laden and his top deputies. There is talk of training new recruits, and how to select the most talented to carry out major attacks in the West. There are discussions of who should be promoted, and the perceived strengths and weaknesses of those seeking to move up Al Qaeda’s chain of command.
这批文件中，大部分似乎是本·拉登和副手之间的通信和笔记。他们曾讨论新成员的训练问题，以及如何挑选最能干的人来对西方发动大型袭击。其中还有关于提拔何人的讨论，以及比较试图在基地组织指挥系统里晋升的人选的优缺点。
There are also long discussions between Bin Laden and his chief lieutenants about the strategy and the general direction of the terror network.
本·拉登和他的主要副手还对该恐怖组织的策略及总体方向进行了长篇讨论。