THERE is a time for weighing evidence and a time for acting. And if there’s one thing I’ve learned throughout my work in finance, government and conservation, it is to act before problems become too big to manage.
考量证据、采取行动各有各的时机。如果说我从自己在金融机构、政府部门和环保领域的工作经历中吸取了什么经验，那就是在问题扩大到无法控制之前，采取行动。
For too many years, we failed to rein in the excesses building up in the nation’s financial markets. When the credit bubble burst in 2008, the damage was devastating. Millions suffered. Many still do.
多年以来，我们都没能遏制住国内金融市场的过度膨胀。2008年，信贷泡沫的破裂，导致了惨重的损失。有数百万人深受其害，许多人至今依然无法自拔。
We’re making the same mistake today with climate change. We’re staring down a climate bubble that poses enormous risks to both our environment and economy. The warning signs are clear and growing more urgent as the risks go unchecked.
今天，我们正在气候变化问题上重蹈覆辙。我们正面临一个气候泡沫，它对我们的环境和经济构成了巨大的威胁。警示信号明确无误，而且鉴于我们对风险坐视不理，该信号正在变得日渐紧迫。
This is a crisis we can’t afford to ignore. I feel as if I’m watching as we fly in slow motion on a collision course toward a giant mountain. We can see the crash coming, and yet we’re sitting on our hands rather than altering course.
这是一场无法忽视的危机，因为我们承担不起后果。我感觉，就像是在看着众人在飞行中以慢镜头动作撞向一座巨大的山峰。眼看坠机在即，我们却依然袖手旁观，而不去改变航向。
We need to act now, even though there is much disagreement, including from members of my own Republican Party, on how to address this issue while remaining economically competitive. They’re right to consider the economic implications. But we must not lose sight of the profound economic risks of doing nothing.
就算众人对如何一面应对这个问题，一面还能维持美国的经济竞争力有许多不同的看法，我们也要立即采取行动。在这些意见不一的人士中，就有我的共和党同僚。他们顾及经济影响是对的，可是我们决不能忽视袖手旁观可能导致的巨大经济风险。
The solution can be a fundamentally conservative one that will empower the marketplace to find the most efficient response. We can do this by putting a price on emissions of carbon dioxide — a carbon tax. Few in the United States now pay to emit this potent greenhouse gas into the atmosphere we all share. Putting a price on emissions will create incentives to develop new, cleaner energy technologies.
我们可以采取一个本质保守的方案，它能强化市场权力，找到最有效的应对之道。我们可以给二氧化碳的排放定个价——即碳税。在美国，没有几家企业为把这种强力温室气体排放到我们共同享有的大气中而掏腰包。给碳排放定价将刺激企业开发更清洁的新型能源技术。
It’s true that the United States can’t solve this problem alone. But we’re not going to be able to persuade other big carbon polluters to take the urgent action that’s needed if we’re not doing everything we can do to slow our carbon emissions and mitigate our risks.
毫无疑问，只靠美国一国是解决不了这个问题的。但是，如果我们不采取力所能及的行动延缓碳排放、减轻风险，我们是不可能劝服其他碳污染大国采取紧急措施的。
I was secretary of the Treasury when the credit bubble burst, so I think it’s fair to say that I know a little bit about risk, assessing outcomes and problem-solving. Looking back at the dark days of the financial crisis in 2008, it is easy to see the similarities between the financial crisis and the climate challenge we now face.
信贷泡沫破裂时，我是美国财长，所以公平地说，我认为自己对风险本身、对评估风险后果和寻找解决方案还是有一点心得的。回头看看2008年金融危机的黑暗日子，你可以轻易看到那个危机和我们目前面对的气候挑战之间的相似性。
We are building up excesses (debt in 2008, greenhouse gas emissions that are trapping heat now). Our government policies are flawed (incentivizing us to borrow too much to finance homes then, and encouraging the overuse of carbon-based fuels now). Our experts (financial experts then, climate scientists now) try to understand what they see and to model possible futures. And the outsize risks have the potential to be tremendously damaging (to a globalized economy then, and the global climate now).
无节制的后果与日俱增。（2008年是债务，现在则是困住热量的温室气体。）政府的政策存在瑕疵。（当时的政策鼓励我们为购房而过量贷款，当下的政策则鼓励我们过度使用碳基燃料。）我们的专家（当时是金融专家、现在则是气候科学家）试图搞明白自己看到的一切，模拟出日后可能的情况。巨大的风险有可能会带来巨大的损失。（当时的受损对象是全球经济，现在则是全球气候）。
Back then, we narrowly avoided an economic catastrophe at the last minute by rescuing a collapsing financial system through government action. But climate change is a more intractable problem. The carbon dioxide we’re sending into the atmosphere remains there for centuries, heating up the planet.
当时，我们在最后一分钟通过政府行动挽救了处于崩溃中的金融体系，勉强避免了经济灾难。然而，气候变化是一个更加棘手的问题。我们向大气层排放的二氧化碳会在那里滞留数个世纪，让这个星球越变越暖。
That means the decisions we’re making today — to continue along a path that’s almost entirely carbon-dependent — are locking us in for long-term consequences that we will not be able change but only adapt to, at enormous cost. To protect New York City from rising seas and storm surges is expected to cost at least $20 billion initially, and eventually far more. And that’s just one coastal city.
这意味着，我们今天所做的决定——即延续一条几乎完全依靠碳的道路——正把我们锁死，让我们在长期内自食其果，我们无法改变这种后果，只能付出巨大的代价去适应它。帮助纽约市抵御逐渐上升的海平面和风暴潮的前期投入预计每年至少会达到200亿美元（约合1200亿元人民币），最终代价会更高。这还仅仅只是一座沿海城市而已。
New York can reasonably predict those obvious risks. When I worry about risks, I worry about the biggest ones, particularly those that are difficult to predict — the ones I call small but deep holes. While odds are you will avoid them, if you do fall in one, it’s a long way down and nearly impossible to claw your way out.
纽约能较好地预测这些显而易见的风险。而我担心的是那些最严重的风险，尤其是那些难以预测的风险——我把它们称为小小深洞。你有可能避免陷进这些洞里，然而如果你确实掉入其中一个，你会一路下滑，几乎不可能再爬出来。
Scientists have identified a number of these holes — potential thresholds that, once crossed, could cause sweeping, irreversible changes. They don’t know exactly when we would reach them. But they know we should do everything we can to avoid them.
科学家已经辨别出大量这样的洞——它们是潜在的门槛，一旦被越过，就可能引发不可挽回的大范围变化。科学家并不确切地知道，我们会在何时碰上这些洞。他们只知道，我们应该竭力避开。
Already, observations are catching up with years of scientific models, and the trends are not in our favor.
目前，我们观察到的迹象正在迎头赶上我们多年以来建立的科学模型，而且趋势对我们不利。
Fewer than 10 years ago, the best analysis projected that melting Arctic sea ice would mean nearly ice-free summers by the end of the 21st century. Now the ice is melting so rapidly that virtually ice-free Arctic summers could be here in the next decade or two. The lack of reflective ice will mean that more of the sun’s heat will be absorbed by the oceans, accelerating warming of both the oceans and the atmosphere, and ultimately raising sea levels.
不到十年前，最棒的分析对北极海冰融化的预测表明，到21世纪末，北极将出现几乎无冰的夏季。现在，冰的融速如此之快，以至于在接下来的10到20年里，北极可能就会出现基本无冰的夏季。没有了冰层的反射，将意味着太阳的大部分热量会被大洋吸收，加速促使海洋和大气变暖，最终抬升海平面。
Even worse, in May, two separate studies discovered that one of the biggest thresholds has already been reached. The West Antarctic ice sheet has begun to melt, a process that scientists estimate may take centuries but that could eventually raise sea levels by as much as 14 feet. Now that this process has begun, there is nothing we can do to undo the underlying dynamics, which scientists say are “baked in.” And 10 years from now, will other thresholds be crossed that scientists are only now contemplating?
更糟的是，今年5月，两项不同的研究发现，我们已经越过了最大的门槛之一。西南极冰盖已开始融化，科学家预测，这一进程可能会历时数个世纪，然而，最终它将把海平面抬升多达14英尺（约合4.26米）。现在，这个进程已经启动，我们已无法消除其潜在的推动因素，科学家称这些因素是“内置的”。自此之后的10年里，是否还有其他科学家目前才刚刚虑及的门槛会被跨越？
It is true that there is uncertainty about the timing and magnitude of these risks and many others. But those who claim the science is unsettled or action is too costly are simply trying to ignore the problem. We must see the bigger picture.
关于这些风险以及许多其他事情的时间和量级，确实存在不确定性。但那些声称科学未有定论，或行动代价太过昂贵的人不过是在尝试忽略这个问题。我们必须看到大局。
The nature of a crisis is its unpredictability. And as we all witnessed during the financial crisis, a chain reaction of cascading failures ensued from one intertwined part of the system to the next. It’s easy to see a single part in motion. It’s not so easy to calculate the resulting domino effect. That sort of contagion nearly took down the global financial system.
危机的本质是其不可预测性。而且正如我们在金融危机期间亲眼见到的那样，成串的故障导致的连锁反应从那个体系中紧密相连的一个地方扩散到另一个地方。看到一个地方在发生变化容易，但计算它产生的多米诺效应不易。那种蔓延之势差点让全球金融体系崩溃。
With that experience indelibly affecting my perspective, viewing climate change in terms of risk assessment and risk management makes clear to me that taking a cautiously conservative stance — that is, waiting for more information before acting — is actually taking a very radical risk. We’ll never know enough to resolve all of the uncertainties. But we know enough to recognize that we must act now.
那种经历对我的视角产生了不可磨灭的影响，从风险评估和风险管理角度看待气候变化让我清楚地发现，采取谨慎保守的立场——即在行动前静等更多信息——实际上冒着很大的风险。我们知道的，永远不足以化解所有不确定性。但我们知道的情况足以让我们认识到，现在必须采取行动。
I’m a businessman, not a climatologist. But I’ve spent a considerable amount of time with climate scientists and economists who have devoted their careers to this issue. There is virtually no debate among them that the planet is warming and that the burning of fossil fuels is largely responsible.
我是一名商人，不是气候学家。但我和气候科学家以及经济学家一起花过大量时间。他们都将自己的职业生涯献给了这个问题，其中几乎没人怀疑地球正在变暖，而且罪魁祸首是化石燃料的燃烧。
Farseeing business leaders are already involved in this issue. It’s time for more to weigh in. To add reliable financial data to the science, I’ve joined with the former mayor of New York City, Michael R. Bloomberg, and the retired hedge fund manager Tom Steyer on an economic analysis of the costs of inaction across key regions and economic sectors. Our goal for the Risky Business project — starting with a new study that will be released this week — is to influence business and investor decision making worldwide.
有远见的商业领袖已经在这个问题上参与了进来。是时候让更多人加入了。为了向气候科学注入可靠的金融数据，我与前纽约市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)和退休的对冲基金经理汤姆·施泰尔(Tom Steyer)联手，一起进行一项经济分析，对象是在关键的地区和经济领域不作为的代价。我们给风险商业(Risky Business)项目定的目标，是对世界范围内的企业和投资者的决策制定施加影响。该项目将以一个会在本周公布的新研究为起点。
We need to craft national policy that uses market forces to provide incentives for the technological advances required to address climate change. As I’ve said, we can do this by placing a tax on carbon dioxide emissions. Many respected economists, of all ideological persuasions, support this approach. We can debate the appropriate pricing and policy design and how to use the money generated. But a price on carbon would change the behavior of both individuals and businesses. At the same time, all fossil fuel — and renewable energy — subsidies should be phased out. Renewable energy can outcompete dirty fuels once pollution costs are accounted for.
我们必须巧妙地制定国家政策，从而凭借市场的力量，为应对气候变化所需的技术进步提供激励。就像我说过的那样，我们可以通过对二氧化碳排放征税来实现这一点。许多受人尊敬的经济学家尽管持各种意识形态立场，但都支持这种途径。我们可以就合适的定价和政策设计，以及如何使用征收到的资金而开展辩论。但对碳排放定价，的确能改变个人和企业的行为。与此同时，所有化石燃料——以及可再生能源——补贴应当取消，因为一旦考虑了污染成本，可再生能源就会比那些造成污染的肮脏燃料更有竞争力。
Some members of my political party worry that pricing carbon is a “big government” intervention. In fact, it will reduce the role of government, which, on our present course, increasingly will be called on to help communities and regions affected by climate-related disasters like floods, drought-related crop failures and extreme weather like tornadoes, hurricanes and other violent storms. We’ll all be paying those costs. Not once, but many times over.
我所在政党的一些成员担心，给碳定价是一种“大政府”式的干预。但实际上，这样做会减少政府的角色。按照目前的趋势，与气候相关的灾难（如洪水）、由干旱导致的粮食歉收，以及龙卷风、飓风和其他猛烈风暴会影响很多社区和地区。人们会越来越多地呼吁政府承担责任，为这些社区提供帮助，而我们都将为那些成本埋单。不是一次，而是多次。
This is already happening, with taxpayer dollars rebuilding homes damaged by Hurricane Sandy and the deadly Oklahoma tornadoes. This is a proper role of government. But our failure to act on the underlying problem is deeply misguided, financially and logically.
这种情况已经发生了，在飓风“桑迪”(Sandy)和俄克拉荷马州致命的龙卷风灾害过后，政府正在用纳税人的钱来重建被毁的家园。这是政府理应扮演的角色。但我们未能对潜在问题采取行动，无论从经济上还是从逻辑上讲，都很不明智。
In a future with more severe storms, deeper droughts, longer fire seasons and rising seas that imperil coastal cities, public funding to pay for adaptations and disaster relief will add significantly to our fiscal deficit and threaten our long-term economic security. So it is perverse that those who want limited government and rail against bailouts would put the economy at risk by ignoring climate change.
当我们未来面对更猛烈的风暴、更严重的干旱和更加漫长的火灾季，当不断上升的海平面危及沿海城市时，在适应和救灾方面支出的公共资金，将大大增加我们的财政赤字，威胁我们长期的经济安全。因此，那些想要限制政府角色和反对金融救援的人，却愿意忽视气候变化，从而让经济限于危险之中，这实在是不合常理。
This is short-termism. There is a tendency, particularly in government and politics, to avoid focusing on difficult problems until they balloon into crisis. We would be fools to wait for that to happen to our climate.
这是短视行为。目前存在着这样一种趋势——在政府和政界尤甚——那就是躲避难题，直到问题扩大成某种危机。如果我们坐视气候问题也发生同样的状况，那真是愚蠢至极。
When you run a company, you want to hand it off in better shape than you found it. In the same way, just as we shouldn’t leave our children or grandchildren with mountains of national debt and unsustainable entitlement programs, we shouldn’t leave them with the economic and environmental costs of climate change. Republicans must not shrink from this issue. Risk management is a conservative principle, as is preserving our natural environment for future generations. We are, after all, the party of Teddy Roosevelt.
如果是经营一家公司，你会希望公司易手时，它的状况比你刚接手时要好。同样的道理，就像我们不应该把大量国债和不可持续的福利项目留给子孙后代一样，我们也不应该把气候变化引发的经济和环境成本留给他们。共和党人绝不能回避这个问题。风险管理是保守主义的一个原则，为子孙后代保护自然环境也是如此。毕竟，我们是泰迪·罗斯福(Teddy Roosevelt)的政党。
THIS problem can’t be solved without strong leadership from the developing world. The key is cooperation between the United States and China — the two biggest economies, the two biggest emitters of carbon dioxide and the two biggest consumers of energy.
而如果没有发展中国家的强大领导力，这个问题同样无法解决。美国与中国的合作是关键。因为它们是全球最大的经济体、最大的碳排放国，也是最大的能源消费国。
When it comes to developing new technologies, no country can innovate like America. And no country can test new technologies and roll them out at scale quicker than China.
谈到开发新技术，没有哪个国家的创新能力比得上美国。而在测试新技术并大规模推出产品方面，没有哪个国家的速度比得上中国。
The two nations must come together on climate. The Paulson Institute at the University of Chicago, a “think-and-do tank” I founded to help strengthen the economic and environmental relationship between these two countries, is focused on bridging this gap.
两国必须携手应对气候问题。芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)保尔森基金会(Paulson Institute)正专注于搭建这样的桥梁。保尔森中心是我创办的一家“知行合一”(think-and-do)的智库，目的就是强化美中这两个大国间的经济和环境关系。
We already have a head start on the technologies we need. The costs of the policies necessary to make the transition to an economy powered by clean energy are real, but modest relative to the risks.
在必要的技术方面，我们已经有了一个良好的开端。向清洁能源经济转型所需的政策成本是切实存在的，但与风险相比，并不是很高。