The Obama administration on Thursday announced plans to suspend trade privileges for Bangladesh over concerns about safety problems and labor rights violations in the country’s garment industry.
由于对孟加拉国服装业的安全问题及劳工权利遭侵情况感到担忧，奥巴马政府于周四宣布了暂停对孟加拉国的贸易优惠待遇的计划。
The administration has come under intense pressure to suspend the privileges in recent months — first after a factory fire there killed 112 workers last November and then after an eight-story factory building collapsed in April, killing 1,129 workers.
最近几个月，奥巴马政府承受着暂停贸易优惠待遇的巨大压力，首先是去年11月，工厂大火致使112名工人死亡，然后是今年4月，一座八层高的工厂大楼倒塌，导致1129名工人死亡。
Trade experts said the administration’s decision would be a substantial blow to Bangladesh’s reputation and was likely to ratchet up pressure on its government to move more quickly to improve factory safety and end what Washington sees as widespread violations of workers’ rights. Administration officials said they have offered Bangladesh a road map for steps it needed to take to have trade privileges restored.
贸易专家表示，美国政府的决定会对孟加拉国的声誉造成沉重打击，还可能会对该国政府造成压力，迫使它加速改善工厂安全状况，结束华盛顿眼中对工人权利的广泛侵犯。美国政府官员表示，他们已经为孟加拉国提供了一份路线图，规定了该国再次享有贸易优惠待遇所需要采取的措施。
In a letter to Congress on Thursday, President Obama said he was suspending the privileges, effective in 60 days, because Bangladesh was “not taking steps to afford internationally recognized worker rights to workers in that country.”
奥巴马总统在周四呈交给国会(Congress)的一封信中表示，由于孟加拉国“没有采取措施，给予该国工人国际公认的工人权利”，他将暂停对孟加拉国的优惠待遇，于60天内生效。
Labor unions and Democrats on Capitol Hill have been pressing the Obama administration to take the step, saying the United States needed to go beyond stern words and take strong action to convey to the Bangladeshi government that far more needed to be done to ensure factory safety.
工会及国会中的民主党人向奥巴马政府不断施压，迫使政府采取行动，他们表示，除了言辞谴责外，美国需要采取强有力的措施向孟加拉国政府传达一个信息：要采取大量行动确保工厂安全。
“The U.S. decision sends a very strong signal to the government of Bangladesh that they have to do things differently, that there’s a consequence to the way they’ve been operating,” said Michael H. Posner, a former assistant secretary of state of human and labor rights in the Obama administration.
奥巴马政府分管人权及劳工权利的前助理国务卿迈克尔·H·波斯纳(Michael H. Posner)表示，“美国的决定向孟加拉国政府发出强大信号，即他们必须做出改变，而且他们的行动会带来一定后果。”
The suspension will revoke the breaks on tariffs that the United States gives Bangladesh under the Generalized System of Preferences, a World Trade Organization program that seeks to promote economic growth.
美国根据普遍化优惠关税制度（Generalized System of Preferences，简称GSP）给予孟加拉国的关税优惠待遇因此会被取消，世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)试图通过该项目促进经济增长。
While Bangladesh fought vigorously to prevent the suspension, worried about the signal it sends to its citizens and to global investors, some trade experts said the suspension would be largely symbolic because it will affect less than 1 percent of America’s $4.9 billion in annual imports from Bangladesh.
孟加拉国对暂停举措给其民众及国际投资者传达的信号感到担心，他们积极争取阻止美国采取该举措，但一些贸易专家表示，暂停举措很大程度上是象征性的，因为美国每年从孟加拉国进口价值49亿美元（约合300亿元人民币）的商品，其中受到该举措影响的不足1%。
The tariff preferences being curtailed cover a variety of products, including tobacco and plastic bags, but do not apply to the country’s garment industry, which does not have American duty-free status and represents the great bulk of that country’s trade with the United States.
被暂停的关税优惠涉及多种商品，包括烟草制品、塑料袋，但不适用于该国的服装业，该行业在两国贸易中占据最大份额，但没有获得美国的免税待遇。
Bangladesh, one of 125 countries that receive American trade preferences, is allowed to export nearly 5,000 products duty-free to the United States, which buys about 25 percent of that country’s $18 billion in annual apparel exports.
共有125个国家获得了美国的贸易优惠待遇，孟加拉国是其中之一，该国获准向美国出口5000种免税产品，孟加拉国每年的服装出口总额为180亿美元，其中美国的购买占到了25%。
In a telephone interview, Michael Froman, the United States trade representative, said that Washington’s experience with “trade preferences over the years is that the importance of General System of Preferences eligibility is greater than the numbers themselves, particularly in cases where the issue of G.S.P. eligibility has gotten a fair amount of attention in Bangladesh and elsewhere.”
美国贸易代表迈克尔·费罗曼(Michael Froman)在电话采访中表示，美国“多年来提供贸易优惠待遇的经验是，GSP资格比数字本身重要，特别是GSP资格问题在孟加拉国及其他地方获得相当大关注的情况下。”
He added, “We’ve been in dialogue with the government of Bangladesh about improving worker rights and worker safety and in the absence of sufficient action, we felt it was important to take this action.”
他还说，“我们一直在与孟加拉国政府讨论改善劳工权利和安全状况的问题，在缺乏足够行动的情况下，我们觉得采取这个举措很重要。”
The Obama administration’s move may have some influence on the European Union, which is also weighing whether to suspend Bangladesh’s trade preferences. Action by the Europeans could have much greater impact because Europe’s duty-free privileges include Bangladeshi apparel and Europe buys 60 percent of that country’s garment exports.
奥巴马政府的举措可能会对欧盟(European Union)产生影响，后者也在考虑是否要暂停孟加拉国的贸易优惠待遇。欧盟的行动将带来更大的影响，因为欧洲的免税优惠条件涵盖了孟加拉国的服装业，而且孟加拉国60%的出口服装都由欧洲买进。
The damage Bangladesh’s other industries will face from the suspension is expected to pressure the country’s garment industry to make many of the changes Washington wants. Last December, the United States sent Bangladesh a list of areas that needed improvement. The list included ending government harassment of union organizers and giving more rights to workers in the country’s special export manufacturing zones.
贸易优惠待遇的中止将对孟加拉国的其他行业造成损害。而这些损害可能会迫使孟加拉国的服装行业做出美国政府所希望看到的改变。去年12月，美国交给孟加拉国一个清单，上面罗列着需要改进的事项。这份清单要求政府停止骚扰工会组织者，赋予该国特殊出口制造区的工人更多权利。
The federal government has not been unified on the suspensions, however. Some State Department officials opposed the move, saying it would damage diplomatic relations with a country that has faced Islamist threats and would undermine the economy of an already poor country.
然而，联邦政府在暂停贸易优惠的问题上，意见并不统一。一些国务院(State Department)官员反对这项举措，说这样做会损害他们与一个面临着伊斯兰主义威胁的国家的关系，而且还会给这个已经比较贫困的国家的经济造成损害。
The Bangladesh Foreign Ministry issued a statement criticizing Washington’s move, saying that “this harsh measure may bring” new obstacles to “an otherwise flourishing bilateral” trade relationship. It said it hoped that the United States would soon restore the country’s trade preferences and it urged Western buyers to “continue their business with their long trusted partners” in Bangladesh.
孟加拉国外交部发布声明谴责美国的举动称，“这种严苛举措将会给本应蓬勃发展的双边”贸易关系带来新的障碍。它说希望美国能尽快恢复孟加拉国的优惠待遇，并敦促西方买家“继续与他们长期信任的孟加拉国合作伙伴进行交易”。
The administration’s move on Thursday was in response to an official complaint filed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. in 2007. The labor federation was upset about numerous deadly factory fires, a 2005 factory collapse that killed 64 workers as well as extensive efforts by Bangladeshi garment manufacturers to suppress labor unions.
奥巴马政府周四的行动回应了工会组织劳工联合会-产业工会联合会（American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations，简称AFL-CIO）于2007年提出的一项正式控诉。AFL-CIO对服装工厂的多次致命火灾、2005年的工厂倒塌事件（导致64名工人死亡），以及孟加拉国服装制造商大力压制劳工组织深感失望。
The garment industry is a major driver of Bangladesh’s economy, with more than 5,000 factories that employ four million workers. Bangladesh is the world’s second-largest apparel exporter after China. Its minimum wage of $37 a month, the lowest in the world, has been a huge lure for manufacturers and helped the country’s garment industry expand — with many hastily and shoddily built factories as a result.
服装业是推动孟加拉国经济增长的主要行业，该国共有5000多家服装厂，有400万名工人在该行业工作。孟加拉国是排在中国之后的世界第二大服装出口国。其最低月薪只有37美元（约合229元人民币），处于世界最低水平，这对制造商来说是一个很大的吸引因素，促使孟加拉国的服装行业不断扩张——所以才出现了很多匆忙建成的豆腐渣工厂。
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Obama administration have expressed concern about the treatment of labor activists in Bangladesh. In April 2012, Aminul Islam, a prominent labor organizer, was found dead, his body showing signs of torture. Bangladeshi news media reported that government security forces might have had a hand in his death.
AFL-CIO和奥巴马政府对孟加拉国劳工活动的处境表示了担忧。2012年4月，人们找到著名劳工组织者阿明·伊斯兰(Aminul Islam)时，发现他已经死亡，尸体显示他曾受到折磨。据孟加拉国新闻媒体报道，他的死可能与政府安全人员有关。