After more than a half-century defined by mistrust and rancor, the United States officially reopened its six-story embassy in the Cuban capital on Monday, the culmination of many months of negotiations to overcome decades of historical enmity and to restore diplomatic relations between the two nations.
经过充满了不信任和仇恨的半个多世纪之后，美国位于古巴首都的六层楼的大使馆，于周一正式重开。为克服数十年的历史仇恨，并恢复外交关系，两国进行的历时数月的谈判，终于取得了成果。
More than two years of effort went into restoring relations between Cuba and the United States, both public and private, yet most observers say they believe it will be many more years before mutual wariness fades.
为恢复外交关系，两国花了两年多时间的努力，通过公开渠道和私下里进行接触。但大部分观察人士表示，他们认为还要过很多年，对彼此的戒备才会逐渐消失。
A litany of questions have yet to be answered, including: Will the American trade embargo that has crippled Cuba’s economy be lifted, and if so, when? Will the Cuban government improve its human rights record and incorporate outsiders into the political spectrum? How much, and how fast, will the lives of ordinary Cubans, who earn $20 a month on average, improve?
还有一连串的问题有待回答，它们包括：压垮古巴经济的美国贸易禁运会取消吗，如果会，那么是什么时候？古巴政府会改善自己的人权记录，并让局外人参政吗？古巴月平均收入20美元的普通民众的生活会得到多大、多快的改善？
But for now, the reopening of the embassy on the Malecón waterfront in Havana, previously used as an interests section, a limited diplomatic outpost, stands as the most concrete symbol yet of the thaw set in motion last year when President Obama ordered the full restoration of diplomatic ties between the countries.
但目前，重开大使馆是两国关系解冻最确凿的象征。大使馆位于哈瓦那的马勒孔(Malecón)滨海大道上，以前叫“利益代表处”(interests section)，是一个职责有限的外交机构。奥巴马去年下令全面恢复外交关系时，两国关系开始逐渐解冻。
“It is sort of like a wedding,” said James Williams, the president of an advocacy group, Engage Cuba, which has been lobbying for improved relations. “You’ve spent all this time planning your wedding day, and finally you’re getting to see someone walk down the aisle.”
“有点像婚礼，”一直游说改善两国关系的倡导团体“接触古巴”(Engage Cuba)的会长詹姆斯·威廉斯(James Williams)说。“你花了那么长时间筹备婚礼，终于要看到有人走上婚礼红毯了。”
“Now,” he added, “you have the rest of your life together.”
“现在，”他接着说，“你们要共度余生了。”
If Cubans are expecting bells and canapés to celebrate the nuptials, they will be sorely disappointed. The official celebration to inaugurate the American Embassy will not take place until later in the summer, when Secretary of State John Kerry plans to visit, to formally raise the flag and install the new signage.
如果古巴民众以为会有钟声和点心来庆祝婚礼，他们会非常失望。因为庆祝美国大使馆揭幕的正式活动，要到今夏晚些时候才举行。届时国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)计划前往古巴访问，并正式升起美国国旗，安放新的标识牌。
For now, the change is imperceptible from the outside, arguably a metaphor for the state of Cuba itself.
目前，从外表感觉不到其中的变化。可以说，这也反映了古巴本身的状况。
Technically, there will be differences. Diplomats will be formally registered, and, for the first time since the American Embassy was closed, they will be allowed to travel freely in the country. They will be invited to functions, too, like members of other diplomatic corps.
严格来说，会有不同。外交官会进行正式的登记，并将在美国大使馆关闭以来，首次获准在古巴自由行动。他们也会像其他外交使团的成员一样，受到一些活动的邀请。
The American government is supposed to ease access for Cubans entering the embassy and for the American Foreign Service officers inside, a State Department official said.
国务院的一名官员称，美国政府应该放宽古巴人，以及使馆内的美国外交人员进出大使馆的限制。
Mr. Obama, when announcing an end to the diplomatic freeze, eased travel restrictions, opened the door for more remittances to Cuba, and expanded the amount of goods that visiting Americans could take home, like Cuban cigars and rum. In May, he removed the country from the list of nations that sponsor terrorism.
奥巴马在宣布外交关系解冻的同时，放宽了旅游限制、为汇往古巴的侨汇开启了大门，并增加了前往古巴的美国人能带回家的商品，如古巴雪茄和朗姆酒的数量。5月，奥巴马将古巴从支持恐怖主义的国家名单中去除。
President Raúl Castro has spent the past five years, before the thaw began with the Obama administration, trying to jump-start the nation’s economy, ordering that hundreds of thousands of government employees be laid off, encouraging Cubans into self-employment and entrepreneurship, and creating a special economic zone in the coastal city of Mariel to attract foreign investment.
在开始与奥巴马政府缓和关系之前，劳尔·卡斯特罗总统过去五年里一直试图推动该国的经济，下令解雇数十万名政府雇员，鼓励古巴人从事自由职业和创业，并为了吸引外资而在沿海城市马里矣尔设立了一个经济特区。
But many of these changes have been confronted with bracing realities. A farm program to encourage crop cultivation struggled because of regulations and a lack of reliable transportation, and the mass public-sector layoffs Mr. Castro promised never really materialized. Real estate overhauls that now allow Cubans to sell their homes have run into a problem that vexes just about every segment of Cuban life: a lack of supplies.
但这些改革中，很多都遭遇了现实的阻碍。因为监管原因和可靠运输方式的缺乏，一个鼓励作物种植的农场项目处境艰难。劳尔·卡斯特罗承诺的公共部门大规模裁员，也从未真正实现过。现在允许古巴民众出售房屋的房地产行业改革也遇到了一个问题：供应不足。这个问题几乎会影响到古巴人生活的方方面面。
Often, these initiatives have been ensnared by the mentality that has both preserved and ossified Cuban life, one forged through years of anti-American sentiment that has defined the social, political and economic lives of Cubans. Letting go of that is not easy.
这些举动常常会受到一种心态的影响。这种心态是在长年的反美情绪中形成的，它是古巴人的社会、政治和经济生活的特征，既维持了古巴的生存，也使其变得僵化。放下这种心态并非易事。
Mr. Castro has said that change will be slow, and that it will not come at the cost of stability or values. Again and again, what emerges is this: Cuba will change, yes, but at its own pace and with no apologies.
劳尔·卡斯特罗称，改革会颇为缓慢，而且改革不会以破坏稳定或牺牲价值观为代价。一再出现的论调是：是的，古巴会改变，但是按照自己的速度，并且不会感觉亏欠谁。
For many Cubans, that is reason enough for hope.
对很多古巴人来说，这足以让他们心怀希望。
“The genie is out of the bottle,” said Carlos Alzugaray Treto, a former Cuban diplomat who is close to Mr. Castro and his brother Fidel, the country’s longtime president. “And once it’s out, you’re not going to be able to put it back in.”
“精灵已经从瓶子里出来了，”与劳尔·卡斯特罗和他的哥哥、长期担任古巴总统的菲德尔·卡斯特罗关系密切的前古巴外交官卡洛斯·阿尔苏加赖(Carlos Alzugaray)说。“一旦出来了，就没法把它放回去了。”
Out of the bottle or not, life continues as usual in Havana. A number of Cubans know about the opening of the American Embassy and have formulated opinions about what it will mean for them.
不管精灵有没有出来，在哈瓦那，生活照常继续。很多古巴人知道美国大使馆重开的事情，并就大使馆对他们的意义形成了自己的观点。
Some fear that Cuban culture could be lost, devoured by American consumerism. But just as many, if not more, are fine with change if it means that they can earn enough to live on.
有些人担心古巴文化丧失，担心它被美国消费主义文化吞噬。但也有同样多的人——如果不是更多的话——认为这一变化不是问题，只要它意味着自己可以赚足够多的钱用来过活。
“For me, inequality is not a problem,” said Lázaro Borrero, 39, a journeyman worker who does a bit of construction, cooking and tobacco rolling to make ends meet. “If you earn $1 million a year, and I earn $1 a year, good for you.”
“对我来说，收入不均不是问题，”39岁的拉萨罗·博雷罗(Lázaro Borrero)说道，他靠打短工来维持生计，做一些建筑、烹饪和卷烟方面的工作。“如果你一年赚100万美元，而我一年只赚1美元，那是你行。”
Change that will have an effect on the wallets of normal Cubans is, by some estimates, many years away. It will require the lifting of the American embargo as well as what many Cubans refer to as the “internal embargo,” or the state impediments that exist in everyday life, from communications to buying groceries.
一些人估计，这一改变要对普通古巴人的钱包产生影响还需要很多年。而去实现这一点，则需取消美国对古巴的贸易禁令，也需要古巴取消很多古巴人称之为“内部禁令”的东西，或说是存在于日常生活的各种行政障碍，不管是在通信领域还是购买日用品时。
It will require change from within the Cuban system and adapting to economic norms that might require letting go of some of their control, experts say.
专家们表示，它将需要古巴出现制度内的改变，并采用一些可能要政府放弃一部分控制权的经济准则。
“Cuba has more of a challenge to change than does the United States,” said Ricardo Pascoe, a former Mexican ambassador to Cuba. “They’re going to have to open up one way or another.”
“对于改变，古巴面临的挑战比美国要大，”墨西哥驻古巴前任大使里卡多·帕斯科(Ricardo Pascoe)说道。“无论如何，他们必须对外开放。”
But it will not be only the Cubans who change. American tourists are expected to come in waves to discover a nation so long forbidden, and there will also be families who can reunite without having to cross political minefields.
但要做出改变的不只是古巴人。预计将有大批美国游客涌入这个被隔绝已久的国家，也会有很多家庭将不必再穿越政治雷区就能实现团聚。
Consider Lucía Nuñez, the director of the Civil Rights Department for the government of Madison, Wis. Her parents, born in Cuba, left the country a year before America severed diplomatic ties with it under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, in 1961.
威斯康星州麦迪逊市政府民权办公室主任卢西娅·努内兹(Lucía Nuñez)就是一个例子。她的父母出生于古巴，在美国总统德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)1961年切断与古巴的外交关系的前一年离开了古巴。
Ms. Nuñez drifted emotionally from Cuba over the years, growing up in the Virgin Islands and eventually moving to New England for high school and college. She was ashamed, she said, of having parents with accents and a cuisine that differed from her friends’.
过去多年，努内兹在感情上和古巴比较疏离。她在维尔京群岛长大，后来在新英格兰读高中和上大学。她说，因为父母讲话带口音，家里的饮食和朋友家的不同，她曾经以此为耻。
She raised her children in the United States and has lived in Wisconsin for the past 17 years. Her mother, who has been back to Cuba only once since leaving, missed the deaths of her brothers on the island.
她在美国养大自己的孩子，已经在威斯康星州生活17年。而母亲自离开古巴后只回去过一次，兄弟们在古巴过世时，她也没能回去。
“I spent a lot of years denying I was Cuban,” Lucía Nuñez said from the home of a Cuban entrepreneur who has been licensed to rent to foreign visitors. “But there’s no denying it: I am Cuban. I am as much frijoles negros as I am Bruce Springsteen.”
“有很多年，我一直在否定自己的古巴身份，”卢西娅·努内兹在一位古巴企业家的家中说道，这个住所获得了相关批准，可以租给外国游客。“但这点不可否认：我是古巴人。就像布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀的音乐已经深入我的骨髓，古巴菜肴也深深融入我的血脉。”
So this summer, she, her 81-year-old mother and her 19-year-old daughter decided to take a trip to Havana and to the small town near Guantánamo where the family is from. They recently arrived in Cuba and plan to stay for about a month, and Ms. Nuñez’s mother will see her sister for the first time in years.
所以，今年夏天，她和81岁的母亲、19岁的女儿决定前往哈瓦那，去关塔那摩附近一个小镇上看一看，她们以前的家就在那里。她们最近抵达了古巴，计划在那里停留一个月。努内兹的母亲将在时隔多年之后首次和自己的姐妹再度相见。