KABUL, Afghanistan — The top American commander in Afghanistan, Gen. John F. Campbell, said Wednesday that several service members had been suspended from duty after an internal military investigation of the American airstrike on a Doctors Without Borders hospital in Kunduz last month.
阿富汗喀布尔——驻阿富汗美军最高司令约翰·F·坎贝尔(John F. Campbell)上将在周三表示，美军就美国上个月在昆都士对无国界医生组织(Doctors Without Borders)的医院发动的空袭开展了内部调查，几名服役人员因此被停职。
Calling the airstrike a “tragic mistake,” General Campbell read a statement announcing the findings of the investigation, which he said concluded that “avoidable human error” was to blame, compounded by technical, mechanical and procedural failures. He said that another contributing factor was that the Special Forces members in Kunduz had been fighting continuously for days and were fatigued.
坎贝尔上将宣读了一份公布调查结果的声明，称此次空袭是一个“悲剧性的错误”。他称，调查发现该事件是由“可以避免的人为失误”，以及技术、机械及程序故障造成的。他表示，昆都士的特种部队士兵已经连续几日作战，疲惫不堪，这也是另一个影响因素。
The strike, which involved repeated attacks by a Special Operations AC-130 gunship early on Oct. 3, killed 30 people, mostly patients and Doctors Without Borders staff members, and gutted the main hospital building. The aid group said the attack continued for more than an hour despite repeated calls to the military by staff members, and despite the hospital’s coordinates having been repeatedly sent to the American command.
美国特种部队的一架AC–130炮艇机在10月3日早些时候多次实施攻击，导致30人死亡，其中主要是病人和无国界医生的工作人员，并摧毁了医院主楼的内部。该援助组织表示，空袭行动持续了一个多小时，尽管工作人员多次给军方打电话，并曾多次将医院坐标发给美军指挥部。
General Campbell and his staff did not say how many people were being disciplined, or how. But a senior United States military official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that one of those punished was the Army Special Forces commander on the ground in Kunduz during the fighting. The official would not identify the commander by name, but said the officer, a captain, was relieved of his command in Afghanistan on Wednesday morning.
坎贝尔及其参谋没有说明受处分的人数及处分方式。但美国的一名高级军官表示，其中包括陆军特种部队在昆都士战斗期间的战地指挥官，这名请求匿名的军官不愿透露该名指挥官的名字，但他表示，周三上午，该名上尉已经被解除了在阿富汗的指挥职务。
Kunduz, a provincial capital in northern Afghanistan, had been seized by the Taliban in the days before the airstrike. General Campbell said the gunship’s crew believed it was firing on a different building identified as a Taliban base in the city. He said the aircraft’s targeting systems failed to deliver accurate information and that email and other electronic systems aboard the aircraft, including a video feed that would normally have sent pictures to higher-level commanders in real time, also failed during the operation.
位于阿富汗北部的省会城市昆都士在遭到空袭之前被塔利班占领。坎贝尔表示，这架武装直升机的机组人员以为，他们攻击的建筑是塔利班在该市的据点。他表示，飞机的目标锁定系统没能传达准确的信息，飞机上的邮件及其他电子系统在行动期间也出现故障，其中包括通常会向高层指挥官发送实时图片的视频系统。
American officials said that the Special Operations troops did not follow the rules of engagement and that the airstrike should not have taken place. After reading the statement, General Campbell left the briefing room, at his headquarters in Kabul, without taking questions.
美国官员表示，特种部队的士兵没有遵守交战规则，此次空袭本不应该发动。坎贝尔宣读完声明之后，离开了喀布尔指挥部的简报室，没有回答问题。
Following up, the spokesman for the American command, Brig. Gen. Wilson Shoffner, sought to deflect a reporter’s suggestion that responsibility might rest higher up the chain of command. He said the actions of the aircrew and the Special Operations forces “were not appropriate to the threat that they faced.” And he repeatedly said that the service members involved did not follow correct procedures for airstrikes or choosing targets.
接下来，一名记者指出，责任可能在于更高级别的指挥官，这名美国司令的发言人威尔逊·肖夫纳准将(Wilson Shoffner)试图转移话题。他表示，机组人员及特种部队的行动“与他们所面临的威胁并不相称”。他多次表示，参与行动的军人没有遵循正确的空袭规程或选择目标的规程。
Asked if the military’s investigators had questioned General Campbell in the course of their inquiry, General Shoffner declined to comment. General Campbell was ultimately in charge during the attack on the hospital, but a military official in Kabul said he was in an aircraft at the time, on his way to testify before Congress on Afghanistan.
被问及军方调查人员在调查过程中是否质询过坎贝尔时，肖夫纳拒绝发表评论。在医院遇袭期间，坎贝尔有最终指挥权，但喀布尔的一名军方官员称，坎贝尔当时在飞机上，正要去国会就阿富汗问题作证。
“I won’t comment on General Campbell’s position as he is reviewing some of the recommendations that have been made in his capacity as the appointing officer of the investigation,” General Shoffner said.
“我不评论坎贝尔的立场。他作为调查的启动者，在职权范围内准备提出一些建议，现在他正在评估这些建议，”肖夫纳说。
Many of General Campbell’s comments raised more questions than they answered.
坎贝尔的很多评论引发的疑问多过解答的问题。
The general confirmed that Médecins Sans Frontières, the French name of Doctors Without Borders, had succeeded in reaching the Special Forces commander to inform him of the attack about 12 minutes into the airstrike, at 2:20 a.m. But he said the strike was not called off until 2:37 a.m. — after the aircrew had already stopped firing. But that timeline does not agree with accounts by the aid group and other witnesses, who said the strike went on for more than an hour.
他证实，在空袭进行了大约12分钟后，也就是凌晨2点20分时，无国界医生成功地联系到特种部队指挥官，告知医院遇袭。但他表示，空袭2点37分才取消，而那时机组人员已经停止了开火。但这个时间线和该援助组织及其他目击者的描述不符。目击者称，袭击持续了一个多小时。
The aid group, which has called for an independent, nonmilitary international inquiry into the airstrike, was sharply critical of General Campbell’s remarks. “The U.S. version of events presented today leaves M.S.F. with more questions than answers,” said Christopher Stokes, the organization’s general director. “The frightening catalog of errors outlined today illustrates gross negligence on the part of U.S. forces and violations of the rules of war.”
无国界医生要求对空袭开展独立的国际调查，军方不得介入，并对坎贝尔的言论提出了强烈批评。“美国今天给出的事件版本，让无国界医生产生的疑问多过它回答的问题，”该组织的总干事克里斯托弗·斯托克斯(Christopher Stokes)说。“今天罗列的一系列骇人听闻的错误，表明美军存在严重过失，违反了交战规则。”
But Human Rights Watch reiterated its call for a criminal investigation. “The Kunduz strike still warrants a criminal investigation into possible war crimes, but the Pentagon did not clarify whether recommendations made to senior commanders include possible criminal investigations,” said John Sifton, the Asia policy director for Human Rights Watch. “We are deeply concerned that any decision making about any possible criminal charges — if they are made — remains within the chain of command responsible for military operations in Afghanistan.”
但人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)再次呼吁展开刑事调查。“在昆都士袭击一事上，依然有必要对可能构成战争罪行的行为，展开刑事调查。但五角大楼并未澄清，向高级指挥官提出的建议中，是否包括开展刑事调查的可能性，”人权观察组织亚洲政策主管约翰·西夫顿(John Sifton)说。“如果提出刑事指控，相关决策是否依然由负责阿富汗军事行动的指挥系统做出，我们对此深表关切。”
In his account of the investigation report, which is said to be 3,000 pages long but has not been publicly released, General Campbell said that the targeting system on the AC-130 gunship that carried out the airstrike pointed to what proved to be an empty field. Realizing that was not correct, the crew on the gunship decided to target the Doctors Without Borders hospital as the building nearest to the target coordinates that matched the description of the intended target.
调查报告据称长达3000页，但尚未公布。在有关该报告的表述中，坎贝尔称执行空袭的AC–130炮艇机的目标系统指向的地方原来是一片空地。意识到情况有误时，机组成员决定把无国界医生的医院作为目标，因为与预期目标的坐标距离最近的建筑，就是那座医院。
“The investigation found that the actions of the aircrew and the Special Operations commander were not appropriate to the threats that they faced,” General Shoffner said. “We did not intentionally strike the hospital, and we’re absolutely heartbroken over what happened.”
“调查发现，机组成员和特种部队指挥官的行动，与他们当时面临的威胁并不相符，”肖夫纳说。“我们不是故意袭击医院的，我们对发生的事件极为痛心。”