WASHINGTON — Jon M. Huntsman Jr. has accepted President Trump’s offer to be ambassador to Russia, people with knowledge of the matter said on Thursday, taking on an assignment that is challenging in the best of times, and even more so now, given the questions swirling around Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign and its ties to Russian officials.
华盛顿——了解情况的人士周四透露，洪博培(Jon M. Huntsman Jr.)已接受特朗普总统的邀请，担任美国驻俄罗斯大使。这项任务即便是在最好的时候也颇具挑战性，而目前，考虑到特朗普的总统竞选和它与俄罗斯官员之间的关系引发的质疑，其挑战性进一步增加。
Mr. Huntsman, a former Republican governor of Utah, served as President Barack Obama’s ambassador to China from 2009 to 2011. Several experts said he would need great political dexterity to navigate Moscow at a time when Mr. Trump has called for better ties, but Russia’s role in the 2016 campaign remains the subject of intense scrutiny.
来自共和党的洪博培曾任犹他州州长，并在2009年至2011年期间担任贝拉克·奥巴马总统的驻华大使。多位专家表示，在特朗普要求改善两国关系，但俄罗斯在2016年选举中所扮演的角色依然在接受严格调查之际，他必须在政治上极其灵活才能在莫斯科开展工作，
Russia’s ambassador to Washington, Sergey I. Kislyak, has been thrust into a political maelstrom after two of Mr. Trump’s most senior advisers, Jeff Sessions and Michael T. Flynn, acknowledged previously undisclosed meetings with him during the campaign and the transition.
在特朗普的两名亲信杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)和迈克尔·T·弗林(Michael T. Flynn)承认曾在竞选和过渡期间与其秘密会面后，俄罗斯驻美大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)便陷入了一场政治混乱。
Mr. Huntsman, who ran for the Republican presidential nomination in 2012, had no ties to the Trump campaign. Although he endorsed Mr. Trump for president in April 2016, he later called on him to withdraw from the race after the release of a recording from “Access Hollywood” in which Mr. Trump made sexually demeaning comments about women.
曾在2012年争夺共和党总统提名的洪博培和特朗普的竞选团队没有联系。尽管他在2016年4月支持特朗普竞选总统，但后来，在一段来自《走进好莱坞》(Access Hollywood)节目的录音被公布后，他呼吁特朗普退出竞选。在那段录音中，特朗普发表了一些有关女性的性别歧视言论。
Mr. Simes was in Moscow last week, as word of Mr. Huntsman’s candidacy began circulating through the foreign-policy establishment. He said Russian officials reacted favorably, though some expressed concern about Mr. Huntsman’s ties to the Atlantic Council, a think tank of which he is chairman of the board, because it is perceived in Moscow as anti-Russian.
上周，当洪博培是驻俄大使候选人的消息开始在外交政策圈流传时，西姆斯正好在俄罗斯。他说，俄罗斯官员反应积极，但一些人对洪博培与他担任委员会主席的智库大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)之间的关系表示担忧，因为在莫斯科，该机构被认为反俄。
“Russian officials would be a little worried about that part of Huntsman’s background,” Mr. Simes said. “What they will like about him is that he was a former ambassador to China, he is independently wealthy, and he will have access to the president.”
“俄罗斯官员会有一点担心洪博培的那一部分背景，”西姆斯说。“关于他，他们会喜欢的部分是他曾担任驻华大使、拥有独立的财富，并且能跟总统说上话。”