WASHINGTON — President Obama is considering military action against Syria that is intended to “deter and degrade” President Bashar al-Assad’s government’s ability to launch chemical weapons, but is not aimed at ousting Mr. Assad from power or forcing him to the negotiating table, administration officials said Tuesday.
华盛顿——美国政府官员于周二表示，奥巴马总统正在考虑对叙利亚采取军事行动，旨在“遏制和降低”以总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)为首的叙利亚政府使用化学武器的能力，不过，行动的目标并不包括把阿萨德驱逐下台，也不包括逼迫他坐上谈判桌。
A wide range of officials characterized the action under consideration as “limited,” perhaps lasting no more than one or two days. The attacks, which are expected to involve scores of Tomahawk cruise missiles launched from American destroyers in the eastern Mediterranean Sea, would not be focused on chemical weapons storage sites, which would risk an environmental and humanitarian catastrophe and could open up the sites to raids by militants, officials said.
诸多官员都表示，政府正在考虑的是一次“有限”行动，持续时间也许只有一两天。官员们说，预计此次攻击将涉及多枚战斧式(Tomahawk)巡航导弹，由位于东地中海海域的美军驱逐舰发射，行动不会锁定化学武器的存储地点，那有可能引发环境和人道灾难，还可能给激进分子突袭存储地点打开大门。
The strikes would instead be aimed at military units that have carried out chemical attacks, the headquarters overseeing the effort and the rockets and artillery that have launched the attacks, according to the options being reviewed within the administration.
根据正在政府内部接受评估的意见，此次打击行动的目标是执行化学攻击的部队、监督化学攻击的指挥部和发动攻击的火箭弹和大炮。
An American official said that the initial target lists included fewer than 50 sites, including air bases where Syria’s Russian-made attack helicopters are deployed. The list includes command and control centers as well as a variety of conventional military targets.
一名美国官员说，最初的目标名单上列有不到50个地点，其中包括一些空军基地，叙利亚在这些基地部署了俄罗斯制造的武装直升机。名单还包括一些指挥和控制中心，以及各种常规军事目标。
Perhaps two to three missiles would be aimed at each site, a far more limited unleashing of American military power than past air campaigns over Kosovo or Libya.
美国也许会向每个地点发射两到三枚导弹，这比美国过去在科索沃或利比亚的空袭行动中使用的军力有限得多。
Some of the targets would be “dual use” systems, like artillery that is capable of firing chemical weapons as well as conventional rounds. Taking out those artillery batteries would degrade to some extent the government’s conventional force — but would hardly cripple Mr. Assad’s sizable military infrastructure and forces unless the air campaign went on for days or even weeks.
其中一些目标可能会是“双用途”系统，比如既能发射化学武器又能发射常规弹药的大炮。摧毁炮台将在一定程度上降低政府的常规军力，但却难以削弱阿萨德甚为可观的军事设施和军事力量，除非空袭行动持续数日甚至数周。
The goal of the operation is “not about regime change,” a State Department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said Tuesday. Seeking to reassure the public that the United States would not be drawn into a civil war in the Middle East, and perhaps to lower expectations of what the attack might accomplish, Obama administration officials acknowledged that their action would not accomplish Mr. Obama’s repeated demand that Mr. Assad step down.
美国国务院(State Department)女发言人玛丽·哈尔夫(Marie Harf)于周二表示，此次行动的目的“和更迭政权无关”。可能是为了让公众相信美国不会卷入中东地区的这场内战，也可能是为了降低众人对攻击成效的预期，奥巴马政府官员承认，他们的行动无法实现奥巴马再三提出的目标，亦即让阿萨德下台。
Some lawmakers have warned that the operation might turn out to be a largely symbolic strike that would leave the Assad government with the capability to mount sustained attacks against civilians with artillery, rockets, aircraft and conventional arms and would do little to reduce the violence in Syria, limit the flow of refugees or encourage Mr. Assad to negotiate seriously if a Geneva peace conference is convened.
一些议员已经警告，事实可能会证明，此次行动在很大程度上只是一次象征性的攻击，无法摧毁阿萨德政府用大炮、火箭弹、飞机和传统武器持续攻击平民的能力，不能减少叙利亚的暴力活动，不能限制难民流动，也不能促使阿萨德在日内瓦和平会议得以召开的时候进行严肃的谈判。
Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, suggested in an interview that the attacks go further than what appears to be under consideration by the administration, including strikes on the Syrian Air Force, its munitions depots and military fuel supplies to “tip the battle in favor of the insurgents.”
众议院外交事务委员会(House Committee on Foreign Affairs)的民主党首席议员、纽约州众议员艾略特·L·恩格尔(Eliot L. Engel)在一次采访中建议，政府不妨实施比他们似乎正在考虑的行动更为深入的攻击，包括打击叙利亚的空军、军需仓库和军事燃料补给，以求“让战局往有利于反对派武装的方向倾斜”。
“We should try to help the rebels and help the people fighting Assad,” Mr. Engel said.
恩格尔说，“我们应该帮助反对派，帮助人民对抗阿萨德。”
Frederic C. Hof, a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council who previously worked on Middle East issues for the State and Defense Departments, has urged that the Obama administration consider a broader military mission: destroying or significantly degrading the ability of the Assad government to carry out intensive artillery, aircraft and rocket attacks with conventional as well as chemical warheads on the civilian population.
大西洋理事会(Atlantic Council)高级会员、曾在美国国务院和国防部处理中东问题的弗雷德里克·C·霍夫(Frederic C. Hof)已经敦促奥巴马政府考虑更广泛的军事行动：摧毁或严重削弱阿萨德政府以常规及化学武器对平民发动密集炮轰、空袭和火箭弹攻击的能力。
“Something that is significantly less than that, something that is seen as symbolic, I think would just enable Bashar al-Assad to say I have stood up to the world’s only superpower and faced it down,” he said.
他说，“我认为，远远弱于以上攻击的行动，被人视为象征性攻击的行动，只会让巴沙尔·阿萨德有机会说，我已挺身对抗全球唯一的超级大国，并且击退了它。”
The main American attack is expected to be carried out by cruise missiles from some or all of the four Arleigh Burke-class destroyers within striking range of Syria in the Mediterranean: the Mahan, the Barry, the Gravely and the Ramage.
美国的主要攻击行动预计将体现为由部署在地中海的部分或全部四艘“阿利·伯克”级(Arleigh Burke)驱逐舰发射的巡航导弹，这四艘驱逐舰分别是马汉号(Mahan)、巴里号(Barry)、格莱夫利号(Gravely)和雷米吉号(Ramage)，射程都可以达到叙利亚。
Each ship carries about two dozen Tomahawk cruise missiles, a low-flying, highly accurate weapon that can be launched from safe distances of up to about 1,000 miles. Tomahawks were used to open the conflicts in Afghanistan in 2001, in Iraq in 2003 and in Libya in 2011. Attack submarines also carry Tomahawks and are assumed to be on station in the Mediterranean as well.
每艘驱逐舰都载有大约24枚战斧巡航导弹，这是一种低空飞行武器，准确度很高，能从最远约为1000英里（约1610公里）的安全距离之外发射。2001年、2003年和2011年，战斧巡航导弹分别在阿富汗、伊拉克和利比亚拉开了战争的序幕。一些攻击型潜艇也携有战斧巡航导弹，估计这些潜艇也将在地中海处于待命状态。
Officials said that while Syrian rocket and artillery sites were expected to be targeted, there were no current plans to use Tomahawks to crater airfields used by the government to receive weapons and military supplies from Iran, an important lifeline for the Assad government.
官员称，叙利亚火箭和大炮所在地可能会成为攻击目标，但目前尚未计划用战斧巡航导弹轰炸叙利亚政府用来接收来自伊朗的武器和军用物资的飞机场。这些机场是阿萨德政府的一条重要生命线。
Weapons experts said that Tomahawk missile strikes, while politically and psychologically significant, could have a limited tactical effect. The weapons are largely fuel and guidance systems and carry relatively small high-explosive warheads. One conventional version contains about 260 pounds of explosives and another version carries about 370 pounds. Each is less than the explosive power of a single 1,000-pound air-dropped bomb.
武器专家称，战斧巡航导弹的打击虽然具有政治上和心理上的重要意义，战术效果却可能有限。这种武器的主体是燃料和制导系统，携有一个相对较小、爆炸性很强的弹头。一枚普通的战斧巡航导弹携有大约260磅（约120公斤）炸药，另一种战斧巡航导弹携带的炸药约为370磅。这两种导弹的爆炸威力均不及一枚1000磅的空投炸弹。
Some officials have cautioned that Iranian-backed Hezbollah militants might step up terrorism around the region in reaction to American strikes on Syria. Another risk is that Mr. Assad might respond to the attack by firing missiles at Turkey or Jordan or mounting even more intensive attacks against civilians.
一些官员已经警告，作为对美国向叙利亚发动攻击的回应，有伊朗做后盾的真主党武装分子可能会加强在整个地区的恐怖主义活动。另一个风险是，针对袭击，阿萨德可能会向土耳其或约旦发射导弹，或是向平民发动更密集的攻击。
Although some experts believe that the Syrian government already has its hands full trying to contain the rebels and would not relish a war with the United States, they say that the Obama administration needs to be prepared for another round of airstrikes should Mr. Assad raise the stakes.
一些专家相信，叙利亚政府忙于控制反抗力量，不会喜欢同美国开战，但他们也表示，奥巴马政府必须做好准备，以便在阿萨德加大赌注的情况下发动另一轮空袭。
In an indicator of the complexities within Syria’s civil war, and the difficulties faced by the Obama administration in any effort to guide the conflict’s path, jihadi fighters opposed to Mr. Assad were warning one another to take steps to avoid being hit in any impending American attacks.
反对阿萨德的圣战武装分子正在相互提醒，要采取预防措施，以免在美国即将发动的袭击中遭受打击，这反映了叙利亚内战的复杂性，以及奥巴马政府试图引导冲突进程时所面临的困难。
On Monday night, one prominent member of the Nusra Front, a rebel group aligned with Al Qaeda and designated a terrorist organization by the United Nations and the United States, used a Facebook posting to urge fellow members to move away from their bases or positions in Syria.
周一晚间，努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)的一个著名成员在Facebook上发帖，督促其同伴撤离位于叙利亚的基地或驻地。该组织是基地组织(Al Qaeda)的盟友，被联合国和美国列为恐怖组织。
“All fighters in Jabhat al-Nusra,” he wrote, using the organization’s Arabic name, “please constantly change your positions and don’t share anything online. There is a conspiracy by America and its tails to hit our positions.”
“Jabhat al-Nusra的所有斗士，”他写道，“请不断更换位置，不要在网上交流任何事情。美国有一个阴谋，会对我们所处的地点发动攻击。”Jabhat al-Nusra是该组织的阿拉伯名字。
Attacking chemical weapons storage sites comes with the same difficulties and risks associated with attacking munitions depots generally, and with its own special dangers, which the American military encountered in two wars in Iraq. First among them are risks of contamination to the very Syrian civilians that any military action would officially be intended to protect.
袭击化学武器储藏地带有与袭击普通弹药库相同的困难和风险，还带有特殊的额外危险，美军在两次伊拉克战争中都遇到过。首先，污染可能会影响到叙利亚平民，而任何军事行动的官方意图都将是保护这些平民。
Many veterans suspect that some of the effects of Gulf War syndrome that afflicted veterans of the Persian Gulf war of 1991 were caused by exposure to chemical weapons released in clouds by conventional airstrikes against Iraq’s chemical weapons sites in southern Iraq.
许多老兵怀疑，海湾战争综合症让1991年海湾战争的老兵苦不堪言，这种病症的部分征候就是因为接触了化学武器。当时，美国以常规空袭打击伊拉克南部的化学武器场所，使得那些化学武器团团涌出。
After the first gulf war, an American Army unit near Kuwait breached chemical weapons while destroying conventional munitions at Khamisiyah, creating an environmental hazard that persisted throughout the American occupation of Iraq after the invasion in 2003.
第一次海湾战争后，科威特附近的一支美国陆军部队在摧毁海米斯亚的传统军火时破坏了化学武器，造成了一场环境灾难。从美国于2003年进入伊拉克开始，那场灾难贯穿了美国占领伊拉克的整个期间。
Similarly, airstrikes in 1991 on bunkers at the Muthanna chemical weapons complex near Samarra, Iraq, led to security and environmental problems that continue to the present day.
同样，1991年，美国曾对伊拉克萨迈拉附近穆萨纳化学武器大楼的地堡发动空袭，由此而来的安全和环境问题一直持续到了今天。
Mr. Obama’s national security aides have been studying the NATO air war in Kosovo as a possible blueprint for acting militarily in Syria without a mandate from the United Nations.
奥巴马的国家安全助理一直在研究北约(NATO)在科索沃发动的空战，把它当做不经联合国授权即对叙利亚采取军事行动的一个可用蓝本。