DAYTON, Ohio — Fighting back from the ravages of industrial decline, this city adopted a novel plan two years ago to revive its economy and its spirits: become a magnet for immigrants.
俄亥俄州代顿——两年前，为了回击工业衰退的冲击，代顿市出台了一个新颖的计划来重振该市经济和城市活力：成为一个吸引移民安家落户的地方。
The Dayton City Commission voted to make the city “immigrant friendly,” with programs to attract newcomers and encourage those already here, as a way to help stem job losses and a drop in population.
代顿市议会(Dayton City Commission)当时投票决定，把该市打造成“移民友好”城市，市议会推出了吸引新移民和鼓舞已落户移民的计划，作为帮助遏制失业和人口下滑的一种手段。
In north Dayton — until recently a post-apocalyptic landscape of vacant, gutted houses — 400 Turkish families have moved in, many coming from other American cities. Now white picket fences, new roofs and freshly painted porches are signs of a brisk urban renewal led by the immigrants, one clapboard house at a time.
代顿北部已搬入400户土耳其家庭，其中许多家庭来自美国其他城市，就在不久之前，那里还是一幅世界末日降临后的景象，到处是破败的房屋，里面空无一人。现在，一座又一座隔板房的白色尖桩篱笆、崭新屋顶和涂上新漆的门廊，标志着一场由移民主导的快速城市重建。
“We want to invest in the places where we are accepted better,” said Islom Shakhbandarov, a Turkish immigrant leader. “And we are accepted better in Dayton.”
土耳其移民领袖伊斯洛姆·沙赫班达罗夫(Islom Shakhbandarov)说：“我们想在更好地接纳我们的地方投资。而代顿更好地接纳了我们。”
Other struggling cities are trying to restart growth by luring enterprising immigrants, both highly skilled workers and low-wage laborers. In the Midwest, similar initiatives have begun in Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus, Indianapolis, St. Louis and Lansing, Mich., as well as Detroit, as it strives to rise out of bankruptcy. In June, officials from those cities and others met in Detroit to start a common network.
其他苦苦挣扎的城市正在设法通过吸引有开拓意识的移民（包括高技能工作者和低薪劳工）来重启增长。在中西部，芝加哥、克利夫兰、哥伦布、印第安纳波利斯、圣路易斯和密歇根州的兰辛、以及正在挣扎着摆脱破产困境的底特律，已展开类似的行动。今年6月，来自上述城市及其他城市的官员在底特律开会，启动了一个共同的行动网络。
“We want to get back to the entrepreneurial spirit that immigrants bring,” said Richard Herman, a lawyer in Cleveland who advises cities on ideas for development based on immigration.
克利夫兰律师理查德·赫尔曼(Richard Herman)说：“我们想重拾移民带来的创业精神。”赫尔曼就立足于移民的各种发展构想向各市提供咨询。
The new welcome for immigrants reflects a broader shift in public opinion, polls show, as the country leaves behind the worst of the recession. More Americans agree that immigrants, even some in the country illegally, can help the economy, giving impetus to Congressional efforts to overhaul an immigration system that many say is broken.
随着美国摆脱经济衰退的最糟糕阶段，民意调查所显示的对移民的再次欢迎，反映出民意的更广泛转变。有更多美国人承认，移民（即使是一些非法居留在美国的人）对美国经济有益，这种看法给国会改革移民制度提供了动力；许多人说，该制度已经失灵了。
Concerns about uncontrolled illegal immigration, which produced strict curbs in Arizona and other parts of the country, have not been an issue in Dayton. Officials here say their goal is to invite legal immigrants. But they make no effort to pursue residents without legal status, if they are otherwise law-abiding.
对非法移民失控的担忧在亚利桑那州和美国其他一些地方带来了严格的限制措施，但代顿没有受到这个问题的困扰。官员们说，他们的目的是邀请合法移民落户。不过，他们没有刻意追究缺乏合法身份的市民——只要他们在其他方面遵纪守法。
The momentum for change in Dayton came from the immigrants. In 2010, Mr. Shakhbandarov told the newly elected mayor, Gary Leitzell, that he was thinking of asking Turkish immigrants across the United States to settle here. Most of the Turks in Dayton are refugees who fled persecution in Russia and other former Soviet bloc countries.
在代顿，变革的动力来自移民。2010年，沙赫班达罗夫对新当选的市长加里·莱茨泽尔(Gary Leitzell)说，他在考虑让美国各地的土耳其移民到代顿安家。在代顿的大多数土耳其人是为了逃离俄罗斯和其他前苏联集团国家迫害的难民。
Mr. Leitzell was intrigued. “I said, the worst thing that could happen is that 4,000 Turkish families could come to Dayton and fix up 4,000 houses,” the mayor recalled. “So how do we facilitate their success?”
莱茨泽尔被吸引住了。这位市长回忆道：“我说，最糟的情况无非是4000户土耳其家庭可能会到代顿来，修缮4000栋住宅。那么，我们该如何为他们的成功创造条件呢？”
With 14,000 empty dwellings in the city, officials were open to trying something different.
鉴于代顿市有1.4万套空置住宅，官员们乐于尝试不同的点子。
Officials quickly realized that this city of 141,000 already had a small but fast-growing foreign-born population: more than 10,000 Muslims from different countries; refugees from Burundi and Somalia; college students from China, India and Saudi Arabia; Filipinos in health care jobs; and laborers from Latin America, many here illegally.
官员们迅速认识到，这座有14.1万人的城市已经拥有规模较小、但正在快速增长的海外出生人口群体，其中包括：来自不同国家的逾1万名穆斯林；布隆迪和索马里的难民；中国、印度和沙特阿拉伯的大学生；从事医疗工作的菲律宾人；以及拉丁美洲的的劳工，其中许多人是非法移民。
Working with local organizations, the city found interpreters for public offices, added foreign-language books in libraries and arranged for English classes. Teachers went back to school to learn other languages.
通过和地方组织合作，市政府为公共机关安排了翻译，给图书馆添加了外文书籍，还开设了英语课。教师们则回到学校进修，学习外语。
Local groups gave courses for immigrants opening small businesses and helped families of refugees and foreign students. City officials worked with Wright State University, a public institution, to find ways for immigrant doctors and engineers to cut through bureaucracy and gain certifications so they could practice in the United States.
当地团体给移民们提供了开办小企业的课程，还给难民家庭和留学生提供帮助。市政官员与公共机构——莱特州立大学(Wright State University)合作，想方设法帮助移民医生和工程师破除官僚主义的桎梏，获得专业资格认证，以便他们在美国执业。
The police chief, Richard S. Biehl, ordered officers to no longer check the immigration status of crime witnesses, victims and people stopped for minor traffic violations or other low-level offenses. The police union and sheriffs from nearby counties denounced the policy, saying Dayton had become a “sanctuary city” where immigration law was not enforced.
市警察局局长理查德·S·比尔(Richard S. Biehl)命令警察们不再检查犯罪目击证人、受害者和那些因轻微交通违章或其他轻微违法行为而受到盘问的人士的移民身份。警察工会和附近其他县的警长谴责了该政策，称代顿成了不执行移民法的“庇护之城”。
But Chief Biehl defended his approach, saying it allowed the police to focus dwindling resources on serious crimes. Immigrant leaders, especially Hispanics, embraced it, becoming less wary of the police.
然而，比尔局长为自己的举措辩护，说它使警察能够把日渐减少的资源集中到重大的罪案上。移民（尤其是西语裔移民）领袖欢呼该政策，他们对警方的提防心理有所放松。
“If we have any group of citizens who are afraid to talk to us or don’t trust us,” Chief Biehl said, “that’s going to compromise our ability to produce public safety.”
比尔局长说：“如果有任何公民群体害怕和我们对话，或者不信任我们，那么我们维护公共安全的能力就会受损。”
City officials said the whole effort cost them one salary for a program coordinator and some snacks for meetings. While it is still too early to say whether the program will jump-start an economic rebound, the early results are promising.
市政官员说，所有努力的成本就是雇佣一名项目协调人，外加采购一些开会时提供的零食。尽管现在就讨论该项目能否刺激经济反弹还为时过早，但初期效果让人产生期待。
Turks chose Dayton, Mr. Shakhbandarov said, because the cost of living was low and there were universities nearby for their children. The newcomers have started restaurants and shops, as well as trucking companies to ferry equipment for a nearby Air Force base. And they have used their savings to refurbish houses in north Dayton, where Turkish leaders estimated that they had invested $30 million so far, including real estate, materials purchases and the value of their labor.
沙赫班达罗夫说，土耳其人选择代顿，是因为这里的生活费用相当低，附近还有大学供他们的子女入学。新到者已经开始经营餐馆和商店，以及卡车货运公司，为附近的空军基地运送装备。他们用自己的积蓄在代顿北部整修房屋，那里的土耳其领袖们估计，迄今为止，他们已经投入了3000万美元（约合1.83亿元人民币），其中包括对房地产的投入、物资采购和他们的劳动力价值。
Mr. Shakhbandarov stood proudly at the entrance of the Turkish community center that recently opened downtown, gesturing to the lobby’s beige floor tiles, imported from Turkey to make visitors “feel warm” when they arrive. Turks bought the center, empty and dilapidated, from the city with a favorable loan. Now it houses a neighborhood preschool and martial arts classes, joined enthusiastically by girls in head scarves.
沙赫班达罗夫自豪地站在最近刚在市中心开设的土耳其社区中心的入口处，指着大堂里的米色地砖，这些地砖是从土耳其进口的，为的是让参观者在这里“感觉温暖”。土耳其人借助一笔优惠贷款向市政府买下这座空置而破旧的中心。现在，中心内开办了一个社区学前班，还有一些武术班，戴着头巾的女孩们兴致勃勃地来上课。
“It’s all about attitude,” Mr. Shakhbandarov said. “Americans maybe have seen better days of Dayton, a better life, better economy. But we never seen that. We have learned to appreciate what we have. And what we have here is much beyond what we ever had before.”
沙赫班达罗夫说：“归根到底是态度问题。美国人也许曾经见过代顿的黄金时代，见过更好过的生活、更景气的经济。可我们从来没见过。我们学会了感激自己已经拥有的一切。而我们在这里所拥有的，远超出我们之前所拥有的一切。”
African-Americans, who make up 43 percent of Dayton’s population, agree with the goals of the city’s program but said they were waiting to see the results. Derrick L. Foward, president of the Dayton Unit N.A.A.C.P., said he was concerned that immigrant businesses were not hiring enough black employees.
构成代顿市43%人口的非洲裔美国人，对市政府计划的目标表示赞同，不过他们表示，仍对结果拭目以待。美国全国有色人种协进会(NAACP)代顿分会会长德里克·L·福瓦德(Derrick L. Foward)说，他担心，移民企业不会充分雇佣黑人雇员。
“I think Welcome Dayton is a very good initiative,” Mr. Foward said. “But I would like to see more diversity hiring as part of their practice from the start.”
福瓦德说：“我认为，‘代顿欢迎你’(Welcome Dayton)是一个非常棒的提案。不过，我想看到更多元化的雇佣从一开始就得到落实。”
Recent research suggests that Dayton’s experience is not accidental. In a national study published last month, Jacob L. Vigdor, an economics professor at Duke University, found that over the last four decades, immigrants helped preserve and in some cases add manufacturing jobs in cities where they settled, sustaining employment for Americans. They also added to local housing values. For every thousand immigrants who moved into a county, 270 Americans moved in after them, Mr. Vigdor found.
近期的研究似乎表明，代顿的经验并非偶然。在上月发布的一项全国研究中，杜克大学(Duke University)经济学教授雅各布·L·维格多(Jacob L. Vigdor)发现，过去四十年里，移民帮助他们落户的城市保住甚至新增了制造业岗位，从而支撑了美国人的就业。他们还提升了当地的住宅价值。维格多发现，每1000名移民搬入一个县，就会有270名美国人步其后尘。
Dayton’s immigrant experiment is particularly close to home for one lawmaker who will most likely have a major impact on the debate in Washington: the Republican speaker of the House, John A. Boehner. His district wraps around the city on three sides.
正在进行移民试验的代顿与一名议员的家乡极近，在华盛顿的辩论中，此人将极有可能发挥重要影响，他就是共和党籍的众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)。他的选区三面环绕着代顿市。
But Dayton officials said they were not waiting for Congress. “We’ve found that we can repopulate our city and we can educate the people and inspire them to employ themselves,” Mayor Leitzell said. “In 10 years, when the federal government figures everything out, we’ll be thriving.”
不过，代顿市官员说，他们并没有在等待国会拿出任何行动。“我们已经发现，我们能让我们的城市重新吸引市民，我们能够教育人们，鼓舞他们创造就业。”市长莱茨泽尔说，“10年后，当联邦政府搞清了所有这些规律后，我们将早已欣欣向荣。”