On university campuses across the country, from Mizzou to Yale, we have two noble forces colliding with explosive force.
在全美各地的大学校园里，从密苏里到耶鲁，我们看到两股高尚的力量在激烈碰撞。
One is a concern for minority or marginalized students and faculty members, who are often left feeling as outsiders in ways that damage everyone’s education. At the University of Missouri, a black professor, Cynthia Frisby, wrote, “I have been called the N-word too many times to count.”
其中之一是对少数族裔和边缘化师生问题的关注。这些人往往觉得受到了排斥，而这会对每个人的教育不利。在密苏里大学，黑人教授辛西娅·弗里斯比(Cynthia Frisby)写道，“我总是能听到N打头的那个字眼（意指‘黑鬼’——译注），次数多得数不清。”
The problem is not just racists who use epithets but also administrators who seem to acquiesce. That’s why Mizzou students — especially football players — used their clout to oust the university system’s president. They showed leadership in trying to rectify a failure of leadership.
问题不光是出言不逊的种族主义者，还有对此沉默不语的学校管理层。正因为如此，密苏里的学生——尤其是橄榄球队的成员——利用自身的影响力逼迫总校长下了台。在尽力纠正领导层不作为这件事上，他们展示了领导力。
But moral voices can also become sanctimonious bullies.
然而，道德的声音也可以变成伪善的欺凌。
“Go, go, go,” some Mizzou protesters yelled as they jostled a student photographer, Tim Tai, who was trying to document the protests unfolding in a public space. And Melissa Click, an assistant professor who joined the protests, is heard on a video calling for “muscle” to oust another student journalist (she later apologized).
“滚、滚、滚，”密苏里大学的一些抗议者一边推搡学生摄影记者蒂姆·戴(Tim Tai)，一边大喊。蒂姆·戴当时试图记录下公共空间里正在发生的抗议活动。从一则视频中可以听到，参与抗议的助理教授梅利莎·克利克(Melissa Click)召唤人群中的“肌肉人”赶走另一名学生记者（她后来进行了道歉）。
Tai represented the other noble force in these upheavals — free expression. He tried to make the point, telling the crowd: “The First Amendment protects your right to be here — and mine.”
蒂姆·戴代表了此类动荡事件之中的另一股高尚力量——言论自由。他当时试图提出这一点，向人群喊道：“宪法第一修正案保护你们在这里的权利——也保护我的权利。”
We like to caricature great moral debates as right confronting wrong. But often, to some degree, it’s right colliding with right.
我们喜欢把道德方面的大辩论塑造成对错之争。但在某种程度上，事情往往是对对之争。
Yes, universities should work harder to be inclusive. And, yes, campuses must assure free expression, which means protecting dissonant and unwelcome voices that sometimes leave other people feeling aggrieved or wounded.
的确，大学管理层应当更努力地提高包容性。的确，校园里也必须保障言论自由。这就意味着，保护那些有时会让别人感觉愤怒或受伤的刺耳而讨厌的声音。
On both counts we fall far short.
在这两方面，我们都还差得很远。
We’ve also seen Wesleyan students cut funding for the student newspaper after it ran an op-ed criticizing the Black Lives Matter movement. At Mount Holyoke, students canceled a production of “The Vagina Monologues” because they felt it excluded transgender women. Protests led to the withdrawal of Condoleezza Rice as commencement speaker at Rutgers and Christine Lagarde at Smith.
我们还看到，卫斯理的学生报纸在刊登了一篇来论批评“黑人的性命也重要”运动(Black Lives Matter)之后，被学生会断了资金来源。在曼荷莲学院，学生令《阴道独白》(The Vagina Monologues)的演出取消，因为他们感觉这个版本令跨性别女性受到了排斥。罗格斯和史密斯学院的抗议活动导致两校分别取消了对康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)和克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)发出的前去进行毕业典礼演讲的邀请。
This is sensitivity but also intolerance, and it is disproportionately an instinct on the left.
这既是行事敏感，又是不容异见。它更多地在左派身上体现为一种本能。
I’m a pro-choice liberal who has been invited to infect evangelical Christian universities with progressive thoughts, and to address Catholic universities where I’ve praised condoms and birth control programs. I’m sure I discomfited many students on these conservative campuses, but it’s a tribute to them that they were willing to be challenged. In the same spirit, liberal universities should seek out pro-life social conservatives to speak.
我本人是支持女性拥有堕胎选择权的自由主义者，却曾数次受邀去基督教福音派大学传播进步理念，在去天主教大学演讲时赞扬安全套和避孕项目。我肯定让这些保守派学校的不少学生如坐针毡，但这也是对他们愿意迎接质疑的一种致敬。同样地，自由派大学也应该邀请支持胎儿生命权的社会问题保守派前去演讲。
More broadly, academia — especially the social sciences — undermines itself by a tilt to the left. We should cherish all kinds of diversity, including the presence of conservatives to infuriate us liberals and make us uncomfortable. Education is about stretching muscles, and that’s painful in the gym and in the lecture hall.
从更宏观的角度看，学术界——尤其是社会科学领域——通过左倾对自身造成了损害。我们应该珍视所有的多样性，包括让我们自由派愤怒、不适的那种保守派的存在。教育的宗旨应是像拉伸肌肉一样。不管是在健身房里，还是在阶梯教室里，这种拉伸都是令人痛苦的。
One of the wrenching upheavals lately has unfolded at Yale. Longtime frustrations among minority students boiled over after administrators seemed to them insufficiently concerned about offensive costumes for Halloween. A widely circulated video showed a furious student shouting down one administrator, Prof. Nicholas Christakis. “Be quiet!” she screams at him. “It is not about creating an intellectual space!”
近期的激烈事件中，有一起发生在耶鲁。少数族裔学生认为校方没有对一些无礼的万圣节服饰表达足够的关切，他们的长期不满情绪继而爆发。广为流传的一则视频显示，一名愤怒不已的学生用喊叫的方式压倒了管理员尼古拉斯·克里斯塔基斯教授(Nicholas Christakis)的声音。“闭嘴！”她冲着他喊。“这跟创造什么知识空间没有关系！”
A student wrote an op-ed about “the very real hurt” that minority students feel, adding: “I don’t want to debate. I want to talk about my pain.” That prompted savage commentary online. “Is Yale letting in 8-year-olds?” one person asked on Twitter.
一名学生撰写了一篇专栏文章，描述少数族裔学生感受到的“非常真实的伤害”，文中还表示，“我不想争论。我想谈谈自己的痛苦。”这篇文章在网上引发了激烈的评论。“耶鲁大学开始招收8岁的小孩了？”一个人在Twitter上问道。
The Wall Street Journal editorial page denounced “Yale’s Little Robespierres.” It followed up Wednesday with another editorial, warning that the P.C. mind-set “threatens to undermine or destroy universities as a place of learning.”
《华尔街日报》先是发表了一篇社论文章谴责“耶鲁的小罗伯斯庇尔”，接着又在周三发表另一篇社论，警告政治正确的思维定势“会破坏大学作为一个学术之地的纯净。”
I suggest we all take a deep breath.
我建议我们都深吸一口气。
The protesters at Mizzou and Yale and elsewhere make a legitimate point: Universities should work harder to make all students feel they are safe and belong. Members of minorities — whether black or transgender or (on many campuses) evangelical conservatives — should be able to feel a part of campus, not feel mocked in their own community.
密苏里大学和耶鲁大学以及其他地方的抗议者们表达了一种合理的观点：大学应该更加努力，以确保学生们更有安全感和归属感。它应该让少数群体——不管是黑人、跨性别人士，还是基督教福音主义保守派（在很多校园里他们都并非主流）——感到自己是学校的一部分，而非在自己的社区被人嘲笑。
The problems at Mizzou were underscored on Tuesday when there were death threats against black students. What’s unfolding at universities is not just about free expression but also about a safe and nurturing environment.
周二，密苏里大学出现了一些针对黑人学生的死亡威胁，让那里的问题进一步加重。正在各个大学上演的问题，不只和言论自由有关，还关乎一个安全、能滋养人的环境。
Consider an office where bosses shrug as some men hang nude centerfolds and leeringly speculate about the sexual proclivities of female colleagues. Free speech issue? No! That’s a hostile work environment. And imagine if you’re an 18-year-old for whom this is your 24/7 home — named, say, for a 19th-century pro-slavery white supremacist.
试想如果是老板在一些男性张贴插页裸照或意淫女同事的性癖好时不加理会。它是言论自由问题吗？不是。那是一个充满敌意的工作环境。再想象一下，你是一个18岁的学生，你每天24小时都要待着的地方，是以一个支持奴隶制的19世纪白人至上主义者命名的。
My favorite philosopher, the late Sir Isaiah Berlin, argued that there was a deep human yearning to find the One Great Truth. In fact, he said, that’s a dead end: Our fate is to struggle with a “plurality of values,” with competing truths, with trying to reconcile what may well be irreconcilable.
我最喜欢的哲学家、已故的以赛亚·伯林(Isaiah Berlin)认为，人类有一种深层的渴望，想找到唯一的真理。但他表示，实际上这是一个死胡同：我们的命运是和“多元价值观”作斗争，与不同的真理作斗争，是试着调和那些完全不可调和的。
That’s unsatisfying. It’s complicated. It’s also life.
这无法让人满意。它有些复杂。但这就是人生。