SINGAPORE — China’s surprise Nov. 23 announcement of an expanded “air defense identification zone” over the East China Sea has caused much consternation in the region. The zone’s conditions require aircraft to identify themselves and maintain contact with the Chinese authorities when flying through it. Aircraft must report flight plans and follow instructions; failure to do so, the Chinese warned, could elicit “emergency defensive measures.”
新加坡——中国11月23日宣布在东海设立大面积的“防空识别区”的举措相当出人意料，已在亚洲地区引发巨大恐慌。防空识别区的条款要求飞机在飞越该空域的时候自报身份，并与中国相关机构保持联系。航空器必须上报飞行计划，并遵从指示。中国警告称，如果不这么做，可能会促使中国采取“紧急防御措施”。
In Japan, the move has been interpreted as promoting China’s territorial claim to the disputed Senkaku Islands (Diaoyu to the Chinese), rocky outcrops administered by Japan at the southern end of the new air defense zone. China’s airspace grab achieved the unusual result of uniting Japan and South Korea.
在日本，人们认为，中国这是在加强对争议岛屿尖阁诸岛(中国称之为钓鱼岛)，以及一些露出水平面的礁石的领土要求，这些由日本管控的岛礁位于新防空区的南端。中国抢夺空域之举带来了一个不同寻常的结果——日本和韩国进行联手。
The announcement also came just days before Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. visited the region — and last week’s visit was dominated by the controversy. First, he had to reassure Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and then make a “very direct” case to President Xi Jinping of China against the zone. The result has been a standoff.
就在美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)开始访问亚洲地区前几天，中国发布了此项声明，使得这个争议问题成为了拜登上周的亚洲之行的主要议题。首先，拜登需要使日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)安心，然后拜登需要向中国国家主席习近平“非常直接地”表明美国反对该防空区的原因。结果就是双方陷入僵局。
China told Mr. Biden that its position was “principled,” and rejected the charge that its action was reckless. But China also looked weak when initially it did nothing after America flew two B-52 bombers on Nov. 26 through the air defense zone — a tactic copied by Japan and South Korea, which sent undeclared military aircraft into the zone.
中方告诉拜登，中国的立场是“遵循原则的”，并驳斥了有关中国采取不顾后果的举措的指控。但当美国于11月26日派出两架B-52轰炸机飞越中国的防空识别区后，中国最初没有采取任何行动，显得非常软弱。随后，日本和韩国也采取此类策略，在没有申报的情况下，派遣军用飞机飞越该防空区。
In short, this will not go down as China’s finest hour in international diplomacy. Yet China may, unwittingly, have done the world a favor. Until this declaration, few people had heard of “air defense identification zones.” Even fewer were aware that several countries had created such zones without any multilaterally agreed upon rules to govern their establishment.
总之，人们在多年以后不会认为这是中国在国际外交领域的最好时光，但中国可能不经意间给世界带来了帮助。在中国发布声明之前，几乎没人听说过“防空识别区”。更少有人知道已经有几个国家设立了此类防空区，而且它们没有达成多边议定规则来管控防空区。
The United States ordained the first air defense zone: over North America in 1950. It also set one up over Japan during its post-World War II occupation of that country. Japan inherited the claim to that airspace in 1969.
美国于1950年设立了首个防空识别区：北美防控识别区。美国还在二战后占领日本期间设立了日本防空识别区。日本在1969年接管该空域。
Since these zones were first established, however, the world has changed beyond recognition. In today’s situation, any unilateral move by a country has an immediate impact on its neighbors and on the world as a whole.
但自从最初设立了这些防空区以来，世界发生了翻天覆地的变化。在当前情况下，一个国家的任何单边行动都会对其邻国及整个世界产生直接影响。
It may, in fact, serve America’s interests to take the lead on formulating multilateral rules. In 2003, President Bill Clinton wisely posed the question to his fellow Americans of whether the United States “should be trying to create a world with rules and partnerships and habits of behavior that we would like to live in when we’re no longer the military, political, economic superpower in the world.” Whether or not Mr. Clinton was thinking of China’s rising power, this latest play in the East China Sea certainly suggests China’s ambition to compete for superpower status.
实际上，领头制定多边规则，可能符合美国的利益。2003年，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统向美国民众提出一个问题，即美国是否“应该设法创建一个拥有规则、伙伴关系及行为习惯的世界，一个在我们不再是世界军事、政治及经济超级大国的时候，愿意生活的世界”。无论克林顿当时是否考虑到中国的崛起，中国在东海的最新举措明确展示了该国力争获得超级大国地位的雄心。
Responding to China’s declaration of the new zone, the U.S. State Department noted, “Freedom of overflight and other internationally lawful uses of sea and airspace are essential to prosperity, stability and security in the Pacific.” These lawful uses, which include commercial air traffic, are protected by the Law of the Sea Treaty — an accord that has been ratified by 166 out of 193 member states in the United Nations. Sadly, the only major country that has not ratified it is the United States. Congress is not yet convinced that it is in America’s interest to create multilateral rules, preferring to reserve the right to act unilaterally.
作为对中国宣布设立新防空区的回应，美国指出，“飞越自由，以及其他国际上合法使用海域和空域的活动，对太平洋地区的繁荣、稳定和安全至关重要。”包括商业航班在内的合法使用海域和空域的活动受到《海洋法公约》(Law of the Sea Treaty)的保护，联合国193个成员国中有166个国家批准了该协议。悲哀的是，美国是唯一没有认可该协议的大国。国会尚未确信制定多边规则符合美国的利益，国会希望保留采取单边行动的权利。
Leading American figures have long urged China to act as a “responsible stakeholder” in the global system. But the best way for the United States to convey such encouragement is through deeds, not words.
美国的领导人长期以来一直敦促中国在全球体系中担当“负责任的利益相关者”。但美国传达此类鼓励信息的最佳方式是通过行动，而不是言语。
Do we really want to live in a world where each country follows the example of America and China and establishes unilateral claims to international airspace? This hardly seems wise at a time when global air traffic has doubled every 15 years since 1980 and is forecast to double again over the next 15 years.
我们真的想生活在这样一个世界中吗？所有国家都会效仿美国和中国，单边确立对国际空域的所有权。全球航空流量自1980年以来每15年翻一番，而且预计将在未来15年再翻一番，在这种情况下，上述举措似乎并不明智。
Recognizing the threat that noncompliance might pose to civilian aircraft, the Federal Aviation Administration advised American commercial airlines to abide by China’s rules. This concession also helped China save face, but we are moving toward a more dangerous world if we permit every country the right to create air defense zones with distinct and different rules. A multiplicity of rules will lead to confusion for civilian airlines and pilots. Instead, we should create simple and clear multilateral rules binding for all countries.
美国联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)认为，不顺从中国可能会对民用飞机造成威胁，于是建议美国的商业航空公司遵守中国的要求。这个让步帮助中国扳回颜面，但如果我们允许每个国家拥有设立防空区和制定不同规则的权力，我们就会朝着一个更加危险的世界前行。其实，我们应该制定适用于所有国家的简明的多边规则。
U.S. officials accompanying Mr. Biden said that the status of the new zone is now “up to China.” But the world needs the United States to take the lead. The question is whether America will give up its own claim to unilateral action to do so.
陪同拜登的美国官员表示，新防空区的情况目前“取决于中国”。但这个世界需要美国带头，问题是美国是否会为了这样做，带头放弃自已所拥有的采取单边行动的权力。