Seven years ago, in the gauzy afterglow of a stirring election night in Chicago, commentators dared ask whether the United States had finally begun to heal its divisions over race and atone for the original sin of slavery by electing its first black president. It has not. Not even close.
七年前的芝加哥还沉浸在大选之夜淡淡的余辉中，美国人选出了第一位黑人总统，评论家们敢于发问：美国是否最终已经开始治疗她的种族偏见之伤，赎奴隶制的原罪。她没有，而且还差得远了。
A New York Times/CBS News poll conducted last week reveals that nearly six in 10 Americans, including heavy majorities of both whites and blacks, think race relations are generally bad, and that nearly four in 10 think the situation is getting worse. By comparison, two-thirds of Americans surveyed shortly after President Obama took office said they believed that race relations were generally good.
一项纽约时报和CBS新闻上周联合发起的投票结果显示，包括绝大多数白人和黑人在内的将近60%的美国人认为种族关系基本上是差的，近40%认为这种状况正在恶化。与之形成对比的是，奥巴马入主白宫后不久的一次调查显示有2/3的美国人相信种族关系总体良好。
The swings in attitude have been particularly striking among African-Americans. During Mr. Obama’s 2008 campaign, nearly 60 percent of blacks said race relations were generally bad, but that number was cut in half shortly after he won. It has now soared to 68 percent, the highest level of discontent among blacks during the Obama years and close to the numbers recorded in the aftermath of the riots that followed the 1992 acquittal of Los Angeles police officers charged in the beating of Rodney King.
这种摇摆不定的态度在非洲裔美国人当中尤其引人注目。2008年奥巴马竞选时近60%的黑人认为种族关系总体上糟糕，但当他获胜后这一数字迅速下降了一半，现在又飙升至68%，是奥巴马任期内黑人中不满情绪群体比例的最高值，接近1992年骚乱事件发生后的历史记录水平，骚乱因被指控殴打罗德尼·金的洛杉矶警官无罪释放而引发。
Only a fifth of those surveyed said they thought race relations were improving, while about 40 percent of both blacks and whites said they were staying essentially the same.
仅1/5的受访者认为种族关系有所进步，尽管约40%的黑人和白人都认为他们实质上和以前一样。
Respondents tended to have much sunnier views of race relations in their own communities.
受访者对他们自己的群体更倾向于乐观评价种族关系。
For instance, while only 37 percent said they thought race relations were generally good in the United States, more than twice that share, 77 percent, thought they were good in their communities, a number that has changed little over the past 20 years. Similarly, only a third thought that most people were comfortable discussing race with someone of another race, but nearly three-quarters said they were comfortable doing so themselves.
例如，尽管仅37%的人觉得美国的种族关系总体良好，有两倍于此比例——77%——的人认为在他们的群体中种族关系是好的，这一数字在过去20年变化不大。类似的，仅1/3的人认为大多数人可以自在地与别人或其他种族谈论种族话题，但有将近3/4的人觉得在自己的种群中这样做没有关系。
The nationwide telephone poll of 1,205 people, which focused on racial concerns, was conducted from July 14 to July 19, at the midpoint of a year that has seen as much race-related strife and violence as perhaps any since the desegregation battles of the 1960s. It came one month after the massacre of nine black worshipers at Emanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, S.C., apparently by a white supremacist, and after a yearlong series of shootings and harassment of blacks by white police officers that were captured by smartphone cameras.
1205人接受了于7月14日至19日进行了一项以种族问题为关注焦点的全国性民意测试，这一年的中点，同时也被视为是自上世纪60年代消除种族隔离斗争以来种族相关冲突和暴力事件最为频发的一年。在此之前的一个月，南卡罗来纳州查尔斯顿的伊曼纽尔非裔卫理公会教堂9名黑人礼拜者被屠杀，袭击者显然是一位白人至上主义者。之前长达一年时间里发生了一系列黑人被白人射杀和骚扰的事件，并被智能手机拍摄记录下来。
The Charleston shootings, which took place during Bible study on June 17, generated a national outpouring of outrage and grief. The suspect’s embrace of the Confederate battle flag in Internet photographs prompted South Carolina’s Republican governor, Nikki R. Haley, and its Republican-controlled legislature to order the flag’s removal from the grounds of the State House in Columbia.
发生在6月17日圣经研究会过程中的查尔斯顿枪击事件，引爆了全国性的愤怒和哀思。互联网上嫌疑人拥护联盟战旗的照片迫使南卡罗来纳州共和党州长Nikki R. Haley和共和党控制的立法会下令移除位于哥伦比亚市的州议会大楼前的联盟旗帜。
But despite the perception that the shootings inspired a moment of empathy and reconciliation, the poll suggests that attitudes toward the flag remain deeply divided between whites and blacks, and not just in the South.
尽管可以认为枪击事件激起了一时的同情和和解，但民调显示对于旗帜的态度依然在白人和黑人间高度分化，而且不仅限于南方。
When asked how they regarded the battle flag, 57 percent of whites said they considered it mostly an emblem of Southern pride, while 68 percent of blacks said they saw it more as a symbol of racism. The view that the flag represents heritage more than bigotry was shared by 65 percent of white Southerners, including three-fourths of white Southern men.
当被问及如何看待战旗时，57%的白人表示他们将其主要看作是南方荣誉的象征，而68%的黑人则把这当作是种族主义的符号。65%的南部白人，包括3/4的男人，将旗帜更多的视为遗产，而非偏见。
About four in 10 whites, and one in 10 blacks, said they disapproved of the decision to lower the flag in Columbia, while 52 percent of whites and 81 percent of blacks favored it. Nearly half of white Southerners disagreed with the decision. Four in 10 blacks said they would be less likely to shop with a retailer who sold Confederate flags and merchandise, but only 17 percent of whites said so.
约40%的白人和10%的黑人表示不赞成哥伦比亚降下旗帜的决定，然而52%的白人和81%的黑人表示支持，有近50%的南方白人反对。40%的黑人表示自己不太可能在售卖联盟旗帜和商品的零售店购物，而持此态度的白人仅有17%。
“The Confederate flag is a part of history that should not just be thrown out the door,” said Mary Nordtome, 66, a white retired rancher from Fort Sumner, N.M., in a follow-up interview. “It really hurts me that we have to be so politically correct in everything.” She added, “Hate groups have distorted what the Confederate flag means and the history we should not forget.”
“联盟旗帜是历史的一部分，不应该就那样被扔出门去”，新墨西哥州萨姆纳堡退休的66岁农场主Mary Nordtome在后续采访中说，她补充道：“真的很伤心地看到我们不得不如此礼貌地更正所有事情，仇恨群体已经扭曲了联盟旗帜的意义，以及我们不应该忘记的历史。”
Mindy Zhu, a 19-year-old college student from Queens who is Asian, said the crusade against the Confederate flag, regardless of its meaning, posed a threat to free speech. “As soon as you start taking away a symbol for something, then you start taking away other people’s freedom,” she said.
来自皇后区的19岁亚洲大学生Mindy Zhu认为对联盟旗帜的讨伐，而不管其意义，形成了对言论自由的威胁。她说，“一旦你开始剥夺事物的象征，其实你就开始剥夺其他人的自由了”。
In the aftermath of the Charleston shootings, many Americans were deeply moved when relatives of five of the victims told the suspect in the killings, Dylann Roof, at a court hearing that their faith directed them to forgive him. The poll found that about half of those surveyed, including 49 percent of whites and 41 percent of blacks, could not have brought themselves to do the same.
查尔斯顿枪击事件之后，5位受害者的亲属在法庭听证会上表示他们的信念指导他们原谅犯罪嫌疑人Dylann Roof，很多美国人为之动容。调查显示约一半的受调查者，包括49%的白人和41%的黑人，表示若换作自己则无法出这样的决定。
Mr. Obama delivered perhaps his most pointed reflection on race in late June when he eulogized the Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, the pastor of Emanuel A.M.E. “For too long,” he said, “we’ve been blind to the way past injustices continue to shape the present.”
六月底奥巴马先生在赞颂伊曼纽尔卫理公会牧师Clementa C. Pinckney的时候，发表了在种族问题上可能是他最具针对的反思。他说，“太长时间以来，以往的不公持续侵蚀着当下，我们一直无视这种行为。”
But Mr. Obama has largely succeeded in persuading the country that, as he asserted in 2012, he is “not the president of black America” but rather “the president of the United States of America.” Two-thirds of those surveyed said his administration’s policies treated whites and blacks the same. Yet in 2010, 83 percent of Americans said the administration did not favor one race over the other.
但奥巴马很大程度上成功地说服了国民他是——正如他在2012年宣称的那样——美利坚合众国而非美国黑人的总统。2/3的受调查者认为他在对待白人和黑人的管理政策是一样的。然而在2010年，有83%的美国人认为政府没有偏爱某一种族更甚于其他。
Still, almost half of those questioned said the Obama presidency had had no effect on bringing the races together, while about a third said it had driven them further apart. Only 15 percent said race relations had improved. Seventy-two percent of blacks said they approved of the way Mr. Obama is handling race relations, compared with 40 percent of whites.
还是有近50%的受访者表示奥巴马政府没有有效地将不同种族联合起来，同时有1/3的人认为种族间的隔阂有所加剧。仅15%的人认为种族关系有所进步。40%的白人和72%的黑人表示赞成奥巴马处理种族关系的方法。
The president won 95 percent of the black vote and 43 percent of the white vote in 2008, according to exit polling, and 93 percent of the black vote and 39 percent of the white vote in his re-election. His job approval ratings also demonstrate a deep racial divide.
根据投票站出口的民意调查，总统先生在2008年赢得了95%的黑人选民和43%的白人选民，连任选举中这一比例依次是93%、39%。他工作的支持率也反映出了深深的种族鸿沟。
The divide, seen in the answers to virtually every question in the poll, was stark when respondents were asked whether they thought most Americans had judged Mr. Obama more harshly because of his race. Eighty percent of blacks said yes, while only 37 percent of whites agreed.
从民调中几乎所有问题的答案可以看出这种鸿沟非常明显。受访者被问及是否认为大多数美国人过于严厉地评价奥巴马是出于他的种族原因，80%的黑人认为是的，仅37%的白人表示同意。
“I’m not surprised it’s gotten worse under President Obama,” said Elizabeth Gamble, 33, an African-American cook from Albany, Ga., “because he’s black, and so he already had that strike against him once he got into office.”
“奥巴马总统任内种族关系变差我并不奇怪，”来自佐治亚州Albany的33岁非裔美籍厨师Elizabeth Gamble说道，“因为他是黑人，所以当他走进总统办公室的时候，他就已经受过这样的打击了。”
Deep racial schisms were also evident in responses about law enforcement and the criminal justice system. About three-fourths of blacks said they thought that the system was biased against African-Americans, and that the police were more likely to use deadly force against a black person than a white person. Only 44 percent of whites felt that the system was biased against blacks.
深深的种族分裂也体现在执法和刑事司法体系中。约3/4的黑人表示这种体系对非裔美国人持有偏见，警察更倾向于对黑人而不是白人使用致命武力。仅44%的白人觉得体系对黑人有偏见。
Clearly, views of the police are informed by personal experience. Four in 10 blacks, and nearly two-thirds of black men, said they felt they had been stopped by the police just because of their race or ethnicity, compared with only one in 20 whites. Fully 72 percent of blacks said they had suffered what they perceived as racial discrimination, compared with 31 percent of whites.
显然，对警察的看法源于个人经历。40%的黑人和近2/3的男性黑人认为自己曾被警察拦下仅仅是因为自己的种族或肤色，对应的白人比例则为1/20。高达72%的黑人表示遭遇过他们认为的种族歧视，对应的白人比例为31%。
At a time when the unemployment rate for blacks is double that for whites and black households earn 40 percent less, blacks continue to assert they do not enjoy an equal shot at attaining financial success. The share of blacks who said whites have a better chance to get ahead rose by 14 percentage points in about a year’s time, to 60 percent. More than half of whites said blacks have equal opportunities, compared with about a third of blacks who said so.
当黑人失业率是白人的两倍，而其家庭收入要比白人的少40%的时候，他们继续断言自己在实现财务成功方面没有享受到平等对待。认为白人更有机会获得成功的黑人比例在一年时间里上涨了14%，达到60%。超过一半的白人认为黑人有平等机会，仅1/3的黑人持此看法。
But in a finding that may highlight class divisions more than racial ones, identical majorities of blacks and whites, 59 percent, said the economy enabled only a few people at the top to get ahead.
不仅是种族问题，调查结果还突出阶级分化的存在。59%的黑人和白人表示经济只使顶层的少数人获得成功。
More than 80 percent of blacks favored affirmative action programs for minorities, a figure that has largely stayed static for nearly two decades. Only half of whites supported special efforts for minorities. This fall, the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear a new challenge to affirmative action policies in college admissions.
超过80%的黑人支持对少数群体的扶持行动方案，这一比例在近20年里基本保持不变，仅有一半的白人表示赞成。今年秋季，最高法院计划对高校招生中的扶持政策进行新的一轮听证。
In large measure, the poll found that blacks and whites live in separate societies. Most whites say they do not live (79 percent), work (81 percent), or come in regular contact (68 percent) with more than a few blacks. While the numbers have not changed among whites in the past 15 years, the poll suggested some erosion in residential segregation among blacks. Only a third of blacks surveyed said that almost all of the people who lived near their homes were of the same race, compared with half who said so in a 2000 Times poll.
很大程度上，民调发现黑人和白人生活在独立的社会中。大多数白人表示他们不与太多黑人在一起生活、工作或频繁接触，对应的比例依次是79%、81%和68%。尽管过去15年里这些数字在白人当中没有变化，民调结果则显示黑人的居住隔离现象出现了缓和态势。仅有1/3的受调查黑人表示自己家周围住的几乎都是黑人种族，而2000年《时代》的民调比例是50%。
The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for all adults, four points for whites and eight points for blacks.
此次民调的样品偏差范围为：所有成年人 ±3%，白人4%，黑人8%。