Five fraternity members from Baruch College in Manhattan will face murder charges in Pennsylvania for their involvement in the death of a freshman who was hazed during a rural retreat in 2013, officials said on Monday.
政府官员在周一表示，来自纽约曼哈顿巴鲁克学院(Baruch College)的五名兄弟会成员将在宾夕法尼亚州面临谋杀指控，原因是涉嫌于2013年在乡间举行营会时凌虐一名大一新生致死。
A grand jury in Monroe County, Pa., recently recommended that five people face third-degree murder charges and that a total of 37 would face a range of criminal charges, including assault, hindering apprehension and hazing in Chun Hsien Deng’s death.
宾州门罗县的大陪审团近日建议，在邓俊贤（Chun Hsien Deng，音）命案中，以三级谋杀罪指控这五人，并依攻击、妨碍逮捕、欺辱等不同罪嫌起诉共37人。
The authorities said Mr. Deng, 19, known as Michael, died on Dec. 9, 2013, after he was blindfolded and made to wear a backpack weighted with sand while trying to make his way across a frozen yard as members of the fraternity, Pi Delta Psi, tried to tackle him. During at least one tackle, he was lifted up and dropped on the ground in a move known as spearing, according to the Pocono Mountain Regional Police Department. He complained his head hurt but continued participating and was eventually knocked out, the police said in a news release.
当局表示，19岁的邓俊贤，人称麦可(Michael)，于2013年12月9日身亡，死前他曾蒙住双眼并且背负一个装满沙子的沉重背包，尝试在派-德尔塔-普赛兄弟会(Pi Delta Psi)成员的擒抱攻击之下穿越一片结冰的庭院。根据波科诺山地方警局所述，邓俊贤至少有一次被一种叫做“飞冲肩”(spearing)的招数撞飞后摔落在地上。警方在新闻稿中表示，邓俊贤曾说自己头部受伤，不过仍继续参与活动，直到最终被摔得不省人事。
After Mr. Deng was knocked unconscious, the authorities said the fraternity members delayed in seeking medical help.
当局称，在邓俊贤失去知觉之后，兄弟会成员延误了寻求医疗救援的时机。 
E. David Christine, the Monroe County district attorney, said his office would follow the recommendations of the grand jury. “We believe the recommendations were sound and worthy of action on the part of the commonwealth,” Mr. Christine said.
门罗县地区检察官E·大卫·克里斯汀(E. David Christine)表示，他会遵从大陪审团的建议。“我们相信这些建议是十分合理的，州政府应该据此采取行动。”
Prosecutors have started filing the charges and expect all the charges to be filed within the coming weeks, he said.
他说，检察部门已开始着手提告，所有罪名的指控应能在接下来几周内进入诉讼程序。
Those facing third-degree murder charges are Charles Lai, Kenny Kwan, Raymond Lam, Daniel Li and Sheldon Wong. The fraternity is also being charged, officials said. Third-degree murder, which does not involve premeditation or a specific intent to kill, carries a penalty of up to 20 years in prison.
面临三级谋杀罪指控的有查尔斯·赖(Charles Lai)、肯尼·关(Kenny Kwan),、雷蒙·林(Raymond Lam)、丹尼尔·李(Daniel Li)与薛尔登·黄(Sheldon Wong)。官方表示，兄弟会组织也被起诉。三级谋杀是非预谋的或不涉及特定杀人动机，最高可判处20年刑期。
Reached by telephone at his home in Flushing, Queens, Mr. Lam said he was aware of the charges but referred further questions to his lawyer, who could not be reached for comment. Efforts on Monday night to reach the four others facing third-degree murder charges or to determine the identity of their lawyers were unsuccessful.
当本报致电查尔斯·赖位于纽约皇后区法拉盛的住所时，他表示已获悉起诉事宜，但其他问题需透过律师回答。我们尚未联系到他的律师请其置评。周一晚间，本报也试着联络了其他四名依三级谋杀罪起诉的嫌疑人，并试图确认他们的律师是谁，但均未能成功。
Mr. Christine said the investigation had been lengthy because the authorities had to figure out who of the dozens who were present for the retreat were most involved in the hazing. He said investigators had to “try and make sure people were put in the right category of involvement.”
克里斯汀称，此案的调查工作之所以费时冗长，是因为警方需确认当时身在营会现场的数十人，到底有谁涉及欺凌之举的程度最严重。他表示，调查人员得“尽力确认各人的涉案情节都被适当地分类处理。”
Mr. Deng’s parents applauded the criminal charges in a statement released on Monday. Their son’s death, they said, was tragic and entirely preventable.
在周一发布的声明中，邓俊贤的父母对这些起诉决定表示赞同。 他们说，儿子的死亡是场完全可以避免的悲剧。
“Too many families have been devastated as a result of fraternity hazing, with at least one student dying every year from hazing since 1970,” the Dengs said. “Fraternities and their members must be held accountable, and this step by authorities is an important one.”
“有太多家庭因为这些兄弟会的欺凌而破碎，自1970年开始，每年都有至少一名学生被凌虐致死，”邓氏夫妇表示。“兄弟会及其成员必须负责，而当局此次采取的行动至关重要。”
In Mr. Deng’s honor, the family said it would continue pursuing a wrongful-death lawsuit seeking changes in Pi Delta Psi and other fraternities, so “other parents will be spared the loss of a precious child.” In light of the charges, the family plans to amend the suit to take into account the names and roles of those involved in Mr. Deng’s death.
为了缅怀邓俊贤，邓家将继续进行不当致死的民事诉讼，期使派-德尔塔-普赛与更多兄弟会能有所改变，好让“其他父母能免于丧失爱子之痛”。本次刑事指控出炉后，邓家计划修改诉讼内容，纳入涉及邓俊贤死亡的相关人等。
Among the changes the family is seeking in the lawsuit, which was filed in April, is an end to the pledging process, their lawyer, Douglas E. Fierberg, said in a telephone interview on Monday. “If there was no pledging process,” he said, “Michael would not be dead.”
邓家的律师道格拉斯·E·费尔博格(Douglas E. Fierberg)在周一的电话采访中表示， 他们于4月提起的官司中有多项诉求，其中之一是要求终止兄弟会的入会考验。“如果没有入会考验的话，麦可也不会丧命了。”
After the death, Baruch suspended the rights of Pi Delta Psi on campus while conducting an internal investigation and imposed a moratorium on that fraternity’s pledging and rush activities. In May, officials extended the moratorium for three years.
在命案发生后，巴鲁克学院取消了派-德尔塔-普赛在本校进行内部调查期间在校园活动的权利，同时暂时禁止了该兄弟会的入会考验与纳新活动。5月份时，校方又将禁令延长至三年。
Spokesmen for Baruch College, part of the City University of New York, did not return multiple phone calls and emails seeking comment on Monday night. Reached by telephone on Monday, Victor Yin, the national vice president of Pi Delta Psi, said that he had not heard about the charges.
巴鲁克学院隶属纽约市立大学，学院的发言人没有回覆本报在周一晚间请其置评的多通电话与电子邮件。我们在周一电话联系上派-德尔塔-普赛的全国总会副主席维克多·殷(Victor Yin)，他表示对起诉一事并不知情。
Mr. Deng was one of four pledges who joined members of Pi Delta Psi on an annual weekend retreat at a rental house in the Poconos, where he took part in a ritual called the Glass Ceiling.
邓俊贤是在波科诺租屋处举办的派-德尔塔-普赛年度周末营会期间参加入会考验活动的四名新生之一。在那里，邓俊贤参与了一个名为“玻璃天花板”的仪式。
After he was seriously injured and unconscious, fraternity members carried him inside the house, where they contacted a national fraternity official, who told them to hide fraternity items, the police said. Some members left the house, while others changed his clothes and conducted searches to diagnose his symptoms.
警方表示，在他受了重伤不省人事之后，兄弟会成员把他抬进屋里并和一名总会的干部联络，而后者指示他们把与兄弟会有关的东西藏好。有些会员离开了那栋房子，另有人给邓俊贤换了衣服，在网上搜寻如何诊断他的症状。