WASHINGTON — The Trump administration on Thursday ordered Russia to close its consulate in San Francisco and two diplomatic annexes, in New York and Washington, retaliating against Russia’s order for the United States to reduce its embassy staff in Moscow by 755 people.
华盛顿——特朗普政府周四下令俄罗斯关闭驻旧金山领事馆以及设在纽约及华盛顿的两处外交附属机构，报复俄罗斯下令美国将其在莫斯科的大使馆工作人员减少755人一事。
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson informed Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, of the tit-for-tat move in a phone call on Thursday morning. The administration took pains to say the move was purely reciprocal, and was not designed to further escalate tensions between the United States and Russia.
美国国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)周四上午在电话中通知了俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey I. Lavrov)这个以牙还牙的举措。联邦政府努力表示，此举完全是对等的，并非为了进一步升级美俄之间的紧张关系。
But, in a statement, the Russian foreign ministry said Mr. Lavrov “expressed regret at the escalation of tension in bilateral relations,” and said the Russian government would study the move before deciding how to respond.
但在一份声明中，俄罗斯外交部称拉夫罗夫“对双边关系的紧张气氛升级表示遗憾”，并称俄罗斯政府会对这一举动加以研究，然后再决定如何回应。
Mr. Tillerson and Mr. Lavrov are expected to meet during the United Nations General Assembly next month.
蒂勒森和拉夫罗夫预计会在下月的联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)期间会面。
“In the spirit of parity invoked by the Russians,” the State Department’s spokeswoman, Heather Nauert, said in a statement, the United States would require Russia to close the three offices by Sept. 2.
“本着俄罗斯挑起的对等精神，”美国国务院发言人希瑟·诺尔特(Heather Nauert)在一份声明中说，美国要求俄罗斯在9月2日之前关闭前述三处机构。
The State Department would not say how many employees will be affected by the closings, although it noted that the reduction would leave the United States and Russia with three consulates in each other’s country.
国务院不愿透露关闭这些机构会影响到多少工作人员，但国务院指出，此次削减过后，美国和俄罗斯在对方的领事馆数量都将只剩下三个。
“While there will continue to be a disparity in the number of diplomatic and consular annexes,” the statement said, “we have chosen to allow the Russian government to maintain some of its annexes in an effort to arrest the downward spiral in our relationship.”
“尽管在外交和领事附属机构数量上依然有差异，”声明称，“我们已经选择允许俄罗斯政府保留部分附属机构，以期阻止两国关系持续恶化。”
The Cold War-style response had been expected since earlier this month, when Russia ordered the American embassy staff cuts after Congress imposed sanctions because of Moscow’s meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
本月早些时候，在美国国会因为莫斯科干涉2016年大选而实行制裁后，俄罗斯命令美国大使馆削减工作人员。自那以后，外界便预言美国会做出冷战式的回应。
The Russian consulate in San Francisco is the oldest and most established consulate in the United States, according to administration officials, consisting of an office building and a residence. The two annexes housed Russian trade missions.
据联邦政府官员称，俄罗斯驻旧金山领事馆是在美国设立时间最早、最著名的领事馆，由一栋办公楼和一处官邸组成。另外两处附属机构则是俄罗斯贸易代表团的所在地。
But the State Department’s response seemed calculated to avoid deepening the rift with Russia. The administration is not expelling any Russian diplomatic personnel from the United States, nor did it touch the staff at Russia’s main embassy in Washington.
但国务院的回应似乎是为了避免加深与俄罗斯的分歧而经过了深思熟虑。特朗普政府没有驱逐俄罗斯的外交人员，也没有碰俄罗斯设在华盛顿的大使馆员工。
“It is an important and needed response, but it is not proportionate,” said Michael A. McFaul, who served as ambassador to Moscow during the Obama administration. “The dismissal of 755 employees has a much greater impact on our diplomatic operations in Russia than this action has on Russian operations in the United States.”
“这是重要且有必要的回应，但却不相称，”曾在奥巴马政府时期担任驻俄罗斯大使的迈克尔·A·麦克福尔(Michael A. McFaul)说。“解雇755名员工对我们在俄罗斯的外交业务的影响，远大于这次行动对俄罗斯在美业务的影响。”
The Trump administration’s announcement of the action also bore little resemblance to Russia’s move, which was announced by President Vladimir V. Putin himself in an interview with stare-run Russian television.
特朗普政府宣布这一行动时，也和俄罗斯几无相似之处。俄方的行动是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在接受俄罗斯官方电视台的采访时亲自宣布的。
The White House delegated the response to Mr. Tillerson, and the explanation of the move was left to a midlevel State Department official.
白宫却把宣布回应的任务交给了蒂勒森，解释工作则留给了国务院的一名中层官员。
President Trump expressed gratitude, rather than anger, toward Mr. Putin when was asked about the Russian action to reduce American embassy personnel in Moscow.
被问及俄罗斯削减设在莫斯科的美国大使馆工作人员的行动时，特朗普总统表达的是对普京的感激，而不是愤怒。
“I want to thank him because we’re trying to cut down the payroll,” Mr. Trump said, “and as far as I’m concerned, I’m very thankful that he let go a lot of a large number of people, because now we have a smaller payroll.”
“我想感谢他，因为我们正在努力减员，”特朗普说。“并且就我而言，我非常感激他让很多人离开，因为现在我们的在编员工少了。”
Mr. Putin’s move was a delayed reaction to President Barack Obama’s expulsion of 35 Russian diplomats and his seizure of two Russian diplomatic compounds last year. He was acting after the nation’s intelligence agencies concluded that Russia attempted to influence the 2016 election.
普京的举动是对贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统去年驱逐35名俄罗斯外交官并没收两处俄罗斯外交设施做出的延迟回应。奥巴马是在美国情报机构断定俄罗斯企图影响2016年大选后采取行动的。
The administration said there was no decision on whether the Russian government would be allowed to take back those facilities.
联邦政府称，关于是否允许俄罗斯政府拿回这些设施，尚没有定论。