A YouTube star with millions of followers apologized on Monday for posting a video that showed a dead body hanging from a tree in a Japanese forest known as a destination for suicide victims.
一名拥有超过1500万订阅者的Youtube明星因为他上传的一则视频饱受批评，不得不公开道歉。那则视频中出现了一具悬挂在树上的尸体，地点则是日本一片以自杀而闻名的森林。
Logan Paul, 22, posted an apology on Twitter after the video attracted a torrent of criticism online, saying that he had published it in an attempt to raise awareness about suicide and suicide prevention.
现年22岁的罗根·保罗(Logan Paul)在Twitter上发布的道歉声明中称，他发布视频的初衷是为了提高人们对自杀的认识和自杀防范意识。
“I was misguided by shock and awe, as portrayed in the video,” he said. “I still am.”
并表示自己在视频中的表现是被震惊和敬畏之情所误导。
In another video, posted on Tuesday, Mr. Paul again apologized, this time specifically to the dead man and his family. He also asked his fans to stop defending him.
在另一则周二发布于Twitter上的视频中，保罗再次致歉，这次的道歉是明确对该名死者及其家人做出的。他还要求自己的粉丝不要再为他进行辩护。
“I should have never posted the video. I should have put the cameras down,” he said.
“我不该上传这则视频，我应该放下摄像机的，”他说。
The original video, which has since been removed from YouTube but is available elsewhere online, begins with Mr. Paul warning viewers that the following footage is graphic.
保罗发布的第一则视频已经被从YouTube上撤下，但仍能在网上其他地方看到。视频一开始，就是保罗对观众发出警告，称视频中画面感十足。
“This definitely marks a moment in YouTube history,” he says. “Because I’m pretty sure that this has never hopefully happened to anyone on YouTube ever.”
“这绝对是YouTube历史性的一刻，”他说。“因为我很确定，这件事没有在YouTube上任何人的身上发生过，希望如此。”
“Now with that said, buckle up,” Mr. Paul adds, cursing for effect.
“话说回来，做好准备吧，”保罗补充道，为了加强效果，还说了句脏话。
As the video proceeds, Mr. Paul describes the reputation of the Aokigahara forest, which has become well-known in the past decade as a destination for people looking to kill themselves.
随着视频开始播放，保罗对“青木原树海”的名声进行了一番介绍。在过去十年中，这个地方已经成为了那些想要自杀的人的圣地。
In 2016 alone, three North American films were set in the forest, which lies at the base of Mount Fuji, a sacred site in Japan.
仅在2016年，就有三部北美电影将故事发生背景设定在这片位于富士山脚下的森林。
Local folk tales have also fueled talk about the paranormal within the forest, a subject that Mr. Paul eagerly latches onto as he and his companions begin their trek with a guide.
当地传说也助长了关于这座森林内神秘现象的说法，随着保罗及其同伴开始跟着向导在森林里跋涉，他也急切地揪住这个主题不放。
In the next scene, they come across the body. The face is blurred; the rest is left visible. Mr. Paul and the others react in shock and Mr. Paul urges the guide to call the police.
在接下来的场景中，他们看到了尸体。尸体的脸部模糊，其余部分仍然可见。保罗和其他人见到尸体后反应震惊，保罗催促向导报警。
“Yo, are you alive?” he shouts toward the body.
“哟，你还活着吗？”他向那具尸体喊道。
As a camera pans over the body, which Mr. Paul later says is only about 100 yards away from the parking lot, he describes its condition, and speculates that the death was recent. He apologizes to his viewers and says that suicide, depression and mental illness are not a joke.
镜头开始拍摄尸体，保罗接着表示这距离停车场只有大约100码。他描述了它的情况，并推断死亡是最近发生的。他对他的观众表示抱歉，并表示自杀、抑郁和精神病并不是个笑话。
As the group leaves the area where the body was found, Mr. Paul, who has television experience and has trained with comedy troupes, begins to engage in the kinds of behavior most familiar to his viewers: exaggerated reaction shots and nervous laughter. The tone soon becomes more antic as Mr. Paul and the others appear to try to lighten the mood.
当小组离开尸体被发现的地方时，拥有电视台工作经验并和喜剧剧团一起接受训练的保罗开始做出他的观众最为熟悉的行为：夸张的反应和紧张的笑声。随着保罗和其他人似乎试图缓解情绪，气氛很快地变得更为古怪。
Toward the end of the video, Mr. Paul says that his smiling and laughing “is not a portrayal of how I feel about the circumstances,” describing it as his coping mechanism.
在视频快结束的时候，保罗表示他的微笑和笑声“并不是我对这种情况的感觉”，而只是自己面对这种情境的处理方式。
The video, which was posted on Sunday, quickly received pushback online, as people reacted to Mr. Paul’s decision to show the body and his capering afterward. Some shared numbers for suicide hotlines and told stories about their own struggles with mental illness.
这个周日发布的视频很快就收到了在线回复，因为人们对保罗决定展示尸体以及其随后的表现做出了回应。有些人分享了自杀热线电话，并讲述了自己与精神疾病斗争的故事。
YouTube said in a statement that the video had violated its policies, which prohibit “violent or gory content posted in a shocking, sensational or disrespectful manner.”
YouTube在一项声明中表示，该视频违反了其政策，意即禁止“以令人震惊、耸人听闻或不尊重的方式发布暴力或血腥内容”。
“Our hearts go out to the family of the person featured in the video,” the statement said.
“我们的心与出现在该视频中的人的家庭同在，”声明中说。