WASHINGTON — The Obama administration on Friday removed Cuba from a list of state sponsors of terrorism, a crucial step in President Obama’s push to normalize ties between Washington and Havana.
华盛顿——周五，奥巴马政府把古巴从支持恐怖主义的国家名单中移除，这是奥巴马总统推动美古关系正常化行动中的重要步骤。
Secretary of State John Kerry rescinded Cuba’s designation at the end of a 45-day congressional notification period, which began on April 14 when Mr. Obama announced his intention to remove Cuba from the list.
在45天的国会通告期结束后，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)为古巴摘掉了支恐国家的标签。通告期是从4月14日奥巴马宣布打算把古巴从该名单移除的时候开始的。
“While the United States has significant concerns and disagreements with a wide range of Cuba’s policies and actions, these fall outside the criteria relevant to the rescission of a state sponsor of terrorism designation,” Jeff Rathke, the State Department spokesman, said in a statement.
“尽管美国对古巴的众多政策和行动仍存有重大关切和分歧，但这些都与撤销支恐国家需满足的条件无关，”国务院发言人杰夫·拉特克(Jeff Rathke)在一份声明中说。
The action came amid signs of difficulty in the negotiations between American and Cuban officials to carry out the historic reopening that Mr. Obama announced in December. Despite widespread optimism, officials failed in talks last week to reach an accord on re-establishing diplomatic relations and opening embassies.
奥巴马政府做出这一举动的同时，一些迹象显示，美国和古巴官员为两国关系历史性的重启而进行的谈判十分艰难。重启计划是奥巴马去年12月宣布的。尽管存在着广泛的乐观情绪，官员们上周却未能在谈判中达成一项重建外交关系和互派大使的的协议。
Cuba’s removal from the terrorism list was harshly criticized by several declared or prospective Republican presidential candidates and members of Congress, a sign that the détente may become an issue in the 2016 campaign.
把古巴从支恐国家名单中移除的举动，受到了几名已经宣布竞选和可能参加竞选的共和党总统候选人以及国会议员的批评，这一迹象显示，美古关系的缓和可能成为2016年大选中的一个议题。
Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who is widely expected to run, called the decision “further evidence that President Obama seems more interested in capitulating to our adversaries than in confronting them.”
前佛罗里达州州长杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)被广泛认为将参加竞选，他说这一决定“进一步证明了奥巴马总统似乎更有兴趣向我们的对手投降，而不是面对他们。”
The House speaker, John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said the administration had “handed the Castro regime a significant political win in return for nothing.” He vowed that the House would ensure that sanctions on Cuba would stay in place.
众议院议长、俄亥俄州众议员约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)说，奥巴马政府“给了卡斯特罗政府一个重大的政治胜利，自己什么也没得到”。他誓言众议院将确保对古巴的制裁措施继续存在。
But the ease with which the administration removed Cuba from the list — a step that Cuban-American lawmakers had promised to try to block through congressional action, but ultimately did nothing to stop — reflected the degree to which Mr. Obama’s new policy has shifted the debate over Cuba.
古巴裔美国议员曾承诺要通过在国会的行动阻止此举，但最终却并未采取阻拦措施。奥巴马政府轻而易举地就将古巴移出该名单这一点，反映了奥巴马的新政策已经在多大程度上改变了古巴问题的讨论氛围。
Critics of lifting longstanding travel, trade and financial restrictions on Cuba are increasingly finding their efforts overtaken by events. Although Mr. Obama would need Congress to lift the trade embargo and tourism ban, his move last year to relax some travel strictures and trade regulations has paved the way for direct flights and ferry rides, as well as business ventures between the United States and Cuba.
对取消长期以来的旅游、贸易和金融制裁持批评态度的人越来越发现，他们的努力跟不上时局的变化。尽管奥巴马可能需要国会解除贸易禁运和旅游禁令，但他去年放宽部分旅游限制和贸易管制的的举动，为水路和空路的直航，以及两国之间的商业投资铺平了道路。
“When people get more freedom, they want even more of it,” said Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, who has pressed for the lifting of remaining sanctions. “Time has gotten away from those who favor the old policy. It’s so yesterday.”
“人们得到的自由越多，想要的自由就越多，”敦促取消其余制裁的亚利桑那州共和党参议员杰夫·费拉克(Jeff Flake)说。“赞成旧政策的那些人的时代已经结束了。那样的政策太过时了。”
Cuba’s removal from the list — which now includes only Iran, Sudan and Syria — is an important step in Mr. Obama’s effort to move past the Cold War-era hostility that has characterized the United States-Cuba relationship. Mr. Obama met with President Raúl Castro of Cuba last month in Panama at the Summit of the Americas in the first such encounter in a half-century.
源自冷战时期的敌对状态一直是美国与古巴关系的基调。将古巴移出该名单——现在名单上只剩下了伊朗、苏丹和叙利亚——是奥巴马为摆脱这种敌对状态而展开的行动中的重要步骤。上月，在巴拿马的美洲国家首脑会议(Summit of the Americas)期间，奥巴马同古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)举行了会晤。这是半个世纪以来，两国领导人首次会面。
The reaction from Cuba on Friday was muted. The state news media took note of the move in brief articles, but without comment from government leaders. Cubans, however, had viewed the nation’s terrorism designation, in effect since 1982, when the government was sponsoring leftist insurgences, as a blemish on its image and a hindrance to its access to American banks.
周五当天，古巴方面保持了沉默。官方新闻媒体在简短的文章中提到了这件事，但政府领导人未发表评论。然而，古巴民众曾认为，将古巴认定为支持恐怖主义的国家，是对该国形象的诋毁，是为了阻止他们使用美国的银行。将古巴列入该名单的规定是从1982年开始生效的，当时古巴政府在资助左翼反抗活动。