SAN FRANCISCO — Ending more than a month of captivity in North Korea, an 85-year-old American veteran returned to the United States on Saturday, soon after the North let him go, citing his “sincere repentance” for his actions during the Korean War.
旧金山——经过在朝鲜一个多月的囚禁生活，85岁的美国退伍军人在被释放后迅速于周六回到美国，朝鲜方面引述他的话说，他对自己在朝鲜战争期间的所作所为“追悔莫及”。
The sudden release ended a dramatic odyssey in which the veteran, Merrill Newman of Palo Alto, Calif., found himself whisked off a plane by North Korean security on the last day of a guided tour to the reclusive police state in October.
突如其来的释放结束了一场极富戏剧性的历险，来自加利福尼亚州巴洛阿尔托的老兵梅里尔·纽曼(Merrill Newman)在10月前往这个与世隔绝的警察国家，在导游带领下进行了一次旅行，但行程最后一天被朝鲜安全人员从飞机上带走。
After his release, Mr. Newman first flew to Beijing, then to San Francisco, where he was greeted Saturday morning by his wife and son.
被释放后，纽曼先是飞往北京，而后抵达旧金山，周六上午在那里与妻子和儿子团聚。
“It’s been a great homecoming,” Mr. Newman said, smiling. “I’m tired, but I’m with my family. Thank you all for the support we got.”
“回家真好，”纽曼笑着说。“我很累，但是有家人在身边。谢谢大家对我们的支持。”
As his son, Jeff, and security officials led him away, he fielded questions from a couple of dozen reporters. Despite his captivity and the long flight, Mr. Newman displayed flashes of wit in his short answers.
在儿子杰夫(Jeff)和安全官员的陪伴下离开时，他回答了数十位记者提出的问题。虽然经过关押和长时间的飞行，纽曼的简短回答里还是闪烁着机智。
Asked what he would do once he got home, he said, “I think I’ll be taking my shoes off.”
有人问回到家后会干什么，他说，“我想我会把鞋子脱掉。”
Asked to describe the food in North Korea, he said, “Healthy.”
有人问他对朝鲜的食物有何评价，他说，“健康。”
Asked whether he would return there, he said, “Probably not.”
有人问还想不想再去那里，他说，“可能不会了。”
Mr. Newman did not answer any questions about the time he was held in the North, where he had gone to revisit his Korean War past.
关于在朝鲜关押期间的问题，纽曼一概没有回答。他此次前往那里是为了重访他的朝鲜战争经历。
North Korea decided to release him after Mr. Newman read a stilted apology a week earlier in which he expressed regret for his actions during the war and during his visit to the country. While serving in Korea, Mr. Newman helped train anti-Communist guerrillas, working with a unit that was particularly despised by North Korea for its daring raids on its territory.
朝鲜方面是在纽曼一周前读了一份措辞生硬的悔过书后决定释放他的，悔过书表达了他对战争期间以及此次访问朝鲜的所作所为感到悔恨。在朝鲜半岛服役时，纽曼曾参与反共游击队员的培训，他所属的部队因为敢于突入敌方领地而格外遭朝鲜记恨。
On his visit, at least according to the apology and an email released by North Korea, he planned to try to meet any surviving guerrillas and connect them with their old comrades in the South. North Korea, which considers itself under threat from outside forces, maintains rigid control over its citizens, who are generally allowed to know little of the world beyond their border.
至少从他的悔过书和朝鲜发出的一封电子邮件来看，他此行是打算与仍健在的游击队员见面，让他们和在韩国的老战友取得联系。由于认为自己处在外部势力的威胁之下，朝鲜至今仍对其国民进行严苛地管制，基本上不允许他们去了解国境线以外的世界。
Mr. Newman was removed from his flight out of the country on Oct. 26, a day after North Koreans interviewed him about his wartime activities, according to his family. A friend who was with him on the tour was allowed to return home.
10月26日，纽曼在登上飞机即将离开朝鲜之际被带走，据纽曼的家人说，朝鲜人此前一天已经就他在战争期间的活动进行过一次问讯。和他一同前往的一位朋友获准回国。
When Mr. Newman arrived in Beijing on Saturday morning, he praised North Korean officials “for the tolerance the government has given me to be on my way,” according to The Associated Press.
据美联社报道，周六上午抵达北京时，纽曼赞扬了朝鲜官方，称“其政府决定放我走体现了它的宽容”。
Kim Yong-hyun, a North Korea specialist at Dongguk University in Seoul, said he believed Mr. Newman’s age was a key reason that North Korea released him.
首尔东国大学(Dongguk University)的朝鲜专家金容铉(Kim Yong-hyun)说他相信纽曼的年纪是朝鲜释放他的关键原因。
“It has likely realized that it cannot hold such an old man too long without getting international condemnation,” Mr. Kim said. “It also wanted to show to the outside world that it could be flexible, and respected humanitarian concerns.”
“朝鲜有可能意识到，关押一个年纪这么大的人，时间长了难免要受到国际社会的指责，”金容铉说。“同时该国也希望让外界看到，它是可以灵活处事的，并且尊重人道主义问题。”
American Embassy officials met Mr. Newman when he landed in Beijing on a flight from Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, and they bought him a ticket to San Francisco. An embassy medical officer also brought a supply of Mr. Newman’s medications to him and confirmed that he was well enough to fly home.
在从朝鲜首都平壤飞抵北京后，纽曼和美国大使馆官员见了面，他们已经给他买了前往旧金山的机票。一位使馆医务人员给纽曼带来了补充药物，并确认他的身体状况适合飞行。
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who was in Seoul meeting South Korean leaders when Mr. Newman was released, called North Korea’s decision to set him free “a positive thing.”
在纽曼获释时正在首尔与韩国领导人会面的副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)说，朝鲜释放纽曼的决定是“一件积极的事”。
Mr. Biden said he had offered Mr. Newman a ride back to the United States on Air Force Two, but that he had decided to fly home directly to get there faster. “I don’t blame him,” Mr. Biden said. “I’d be on that flight, too.”
拜登表示，自己告诉纽曼，他可以搭乘空军二号回美国，但他最终决定直接飞回家乡，以快点和家人团聚。“我能理解他，”拜登说，“要是我，也会这么做的。”
Mr. Biden also reminded reporters that North Korea continues to hold Kenneth Bae, a Christian missionary who was sentenced in May to 15 years of hard labor for committing “hostile acts” against the North.
拜登同时提醒记者，朝鲜至今仍关押着肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)，这位基督教传教士在5月因针对朝鲜的“敌对行为”被判处15年劳役。
Mr. Bae’s family issued a statement expressing both excitement about Mr. Newman’s release and anxiety about the fate of Mr. Bae, who has had numerous health problems during his incarceration, including diabetes, kidney stones and back pain.
裴的家人发表了一项声明，一方面表达了对纽曼获释一事的激动之情，另一方面也对裴的命运表示了担忧，他在被关押期间身体存在多处疾患，包括糖尿病、肾结石和背痛。
“We are pleased to hear that Mr. Newman was released,” the statement read. “We have been praying for him and are very happy that his family will have him at the head of their table for the holidays. We believe that our Kenneth should also come home soon.” The statement also said, “We have faith in our government to bring Kenneth home.”
“得知纽曼先生获释的消息，我们十分欣喜，”声明说。“我们一直在为他祈祷，很高兴他能和家人一起过节。我们相信我们的肯尼斯也会很快回家。”声明还说，“我们相信政府能把肯尼斯带回家。”
In recent years, North Korea has detained several Americans, usually agreeing to let them go only after high-profile American figures visited Pyongyang to seek their release. North Korea’s state propagandists describe such visits as American capitulation before its leaders, according to North Korean defectors. Analysts suspect North Korea tries to use such arrests to counter Washington’s diplomatic pressure over its nuclear and missile programs and to try to force the United States to engage with the government.
朝鲜近年关押了多名美国人，通常只有美方派出身份显赫的人物前往平壤请求释放后，他们才会放这些人走。据脱北者称，在朝鲜官方宣传中，这种访问被描述成是美国人对该国领导人的屈服之举。分析人士猜测，朝鲜试图用这样的逮捕行动来对抗华盛顿因该国的核项目与导弹计划向其施加的外交压力，迫使美国和它进行接触。