WASHINGTON — The crisis in Crimea is accelerating Obama administration efforts to reduce Ukraine’s dependence on Russia for natural gas, part of a diplomatic push that seeks to undercut President Vladimir V. Putin’s ability to use his nation’s gas supplies as a weapon.
华盛顿——克里米亚危机正令奥巴马政府加速行动，削弱乌克兰对俄罗斯天然气的依赖。这属于外交攻势的一部分，目的是打击俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)利用本国天然气供应充当武器的能力。
Republican leaders on Capitol Hill and major oil companies have urged the Obama administration to speed up the nation’s first exports of natural gas. Although environmentalists, some Democrats and American manufacturing companies that depend on the competitive advantage of cheap domestic natural gas oppose the effort, they have fallen to the sidelines in the rush to export the gas.
国会山的共和党领导层与大型油企一齐敦促奥巴马政府，加快美国首次出口天然气的进程。尽管环保人士、部分民主党人，以及依赖本土廉价天然气带来的竞争优势的制造业对此予以反对，但在一拥而上的出口声浪中，他们已沦为边缘。
At the State Department, an initiative to harness a natural gas boom in the United States as a lever against Russia, underway since 2011, intensified this week as Gazprom, Russia’s state-run natural gas company, said it would no longer provide gas at a discount rate to Ukraine. Russia supplies 60 percent of Ukraine’s natural gas, and the move was reminiscent of Russia’s previous moves, in 2006, 2008 and 2009, to shut off natural gas supplies to both Europe and Ukraine.
2011年以来，国务院提出倡议，利用美国天然气的繁荣发展来作为应对俄罗斯的筹码。这项倡议本周得以巩固，因为国有的俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)本周宣布，不再以折扣价向乌克兰供应天然气。俄罗斯提供了乌克兰60%的天然气，而此举让人回想起该国以前的数次行动——2006年、2008年和2009年，俄罗斯中断了对欧洲和乌克兰的天然气供应。
The administration’s strategy is to move as aggressively and swiftly as possible to undercut Russian natural gas sales and any moves by Mr. Putin in future years. Although Russia is still the world’s biggest exporter of natural gas, the United States recently inched ahead of Russia as the world’s largest natural gas producer.
奥巴马政府的策略是，尽可能强硬而迅速地削减俄罗斯的天然气销售，反制普京未来的任何举动。虽然俄罗斯仍是世界上最大的天然气出口国，但是美国近来逐步超越了俄罗斯，成为全球第一的天然气生产国。
“We’re engaging from a different position because we’re a much larger energy producer,” said Jason Bordoff, a former senior director for energy and climate change on the White House’s National Security Council. The United States does not yet export its natural gas. But the Energy Department has begun to issue permits to American companies to begin exporting natural gas starting in 2015.
“我们介入的立场不一样了，因为我们现在生产的能源要多得多，”曾在白宫国家安全委员会(National Security Council)担任能源与气候变化高级主管的贾森·博尔多夫(Jason Bordoff)说。美国尚未出口本土的天然气。不过，能源部已开始向本国企业签发许可，2015年起开始出口天然气。
On Tuesday, Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, said: “One immediate step the president can and should take is to dramatically expedite the approval of U.S. exports of natural gas. The United States has abundant supplies of natural gas — an energy source that is in demand by many of our allies — and the U.S. Department of Energy’s excruciatingly slow approval process amounts to a de facto ban on American natural gas exports that Vladimir Putin has happily exploited to finance his geopolitical goals. We should not force our allies to remain dependent on Putin for their energy needs. Ending this de facto ban and expediting approval of natural gas exports is one clear step the U.S. can take to stand by our allies and stand up to Russian aggression, while creating American jobs at the same time.”
本周二，众议院议长、来自俄亥俄州的共和党人约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)说：“总统可以，而且应当立即采取的一项举措是，极大地加快美国出口天然气审批的进程。美国拥有丰富的天然气储备，而我们的许多盟友对这种能源有需求。美国能源部慢到极致的审批进程，实际上等同于禁止我们的天然气出口。而弗拉基米尔·普京却一直在兴高采烈地利用这来资助他的地缘政治目标。我们不应当迫使盟国继续依赖普京来满足能源需求。终结这种实质上的禁令，加快天然气出口的审批，是美国可以采取的支持盟友、对抗俄罗斯侵略的明确举措，同时还能创造本土就业岗位。”
Next to language and history, natural gas is the strongest glue that binds Russia and Ukraine, a source of strength for both but also their greatest vulnerability. Put another way, natural gas is a gun each holds to the other’s head.
除了语言与历史，天然气是联系俄罗斯与乌克兰两国最强有力的纽带。对双方而言，它既是优势，又是最大的薄弱环节。换句话说，天然气是两国抵在对方头上的武器。
For Russia, energy supplies are as important a hold on Ukraine and the other former countries of the Soviet Union as the Russian Army itself. Ukraine would freeze without Russian gas, and its flow has been a considerable source of wealth and corruption in both countries. But Russia is also obligated by contract to provide natural gas to Western Europe, and Moscow remains highly dependent on Ukrainian pipelines to get it there.
对俄罗斯而言，在控制乌克兰等前苏联加盟共和国上，能源供应的重要性与军队本身不相上下。没有俄罗斯的天然气，乌克兰寸步难行。它也是两国财富与腐败的一大源泉。不过，受合同牵制，俄罗斯还必须向西欧供应天然气，而莫斯科仍高度依赖乌克兰的管线来进行输送。
Despite the construction of the Nord Stream pipeline that circumvents Ukraine, about 63 percent of all Russian gas exports to Europe pass through Ukrainian pipelines, and the European Union still depends on Russia for about a quarter of its gas.
尽管绕开乌克兰的北溪线(Nord Stream)正在建设，俄罗斯目前出口到欧洲的全部天然气中，约63%要经由乌克兰的管道。而且，欧盟仍依赖俄罗斯为其提供四分之一左右的天然气。
To an extent not always recognized in the West, Russia is a petrostate, dependent on energy exports for up to half of the government’s revenue, with natural gas accounting for a third of that revenue. Ukraine itself consumes 13 percent of the exports of Gazprom, the state-run megacompany that emerged from the Soviet Ministry of Gas.
在一定程度上，俄罗斯是一个石油国家，因为俄罗斯政府多达一半的收入依赖能源出口，其中天然气贡献了三分之一的收入，但西方并非总能意识到这一点。由苏联天然气部(Ministry of Gas)发展而来的国企巨头俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司出口的天然气中，13%的天然气由乌克兰消耗。
Ukraine, saddled with inefficient, Soviet-era industries, already owes Gazprom at least $1.5 billion for gas, with an additional $700 million for January and an estimated $300 million to $400 million for February, even with the discount. An earlier $2 billion loan from Gazprom has also not been paid, said Dmitri Petrov, an analyst at Nomura in London, as well as prepayments for gas storage.
苏联时代的低效工业依然制约着乌克兰。乌克兰已欠下俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司至少15亿美元（约合92亿元人民币）的天然气款，这还不包括1月的7亿美元欠帐和2月的3亿至4亿美元欠帐，这已经是打过折后的数字。野村证券(Nomura)驻伦敦的分析师德米特里·佩特洛夫(Dmitri Petrov)说，早些时候罗斯天然气工业股份公司借给乌克兰的20亿美元，以及为天然气储存垫付的钱都还未归还。
David Dalton, editor of the Economist Intelligence Unit, said: “Russia has always used gas as an instrument of influence. The more you owe Gazprom, the more they think they can turn the screws.”
经济学人信息社(Economist Intelligence Unit)的总编大卫·道尔顿(David Dalton)说：“俄罗斯总是把天然气当做施加影响的工具。你欠俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司的钱越多，他们就越觉得能施加更大的压力。”
The fight in the last few years, since a 2009 confrontation over gas debts that led Russia to shut off the flow to Ukraine and southeastern Europe for nearly two weeks, “has been the struggle for Ukraine to get away and for Russia to yank them back,” Mr. Dalton said. Ukraine has tried to diversify its sources and reduce consumption, while Russia has tried to build pipelines to circumvent Ukraine.
2009年，因天然气债务发生对抗，俄罗斯将面向乌克兰和欧洲东南部的天然气供应切断了近两周。道尔顿说，自那以后，最近几年的斗争“其实是乌克兰努力想要摆脱俄罗斯，而俄罗斯却试图把它拽回来的斗争”。乌克兰尝试让自己的能源来源多元化，并降低能耗，而俄罗斯则试图铺设绕开乌克兰的管道。
The 2009 conflict was resolved when Ukraine’s prime minister at the time, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, signed a much-criticized 10-year “take or pay” gas deal with Gazprom that left Ukraine paying a higher price for gas than do other Europeans, who have larger transport costs. The deal also forced Ukraine to take or pay for 50 billion cubic meters a year. Even in 2011, Ukraine used only 44 billion cubic meters, Mr. Petrov said, a figure that declined to 32 billion in 2012 and 28 billion last year, when Ukraine was in recession and the gas-dependent heavy industries of the east used less fuel.
2009年的那场冲突最终以乌克兰时任总理尤利娅·V·季莫申科(Yulia V. Tymoshenko)同俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司签署了一份备受指责的“必付合约”的天然气协议而告终。为期10年的该协议迫使乌克兰支付的天然气价格高于其他欧洲国家，那些国家的运输成本更高。协议还迫使乌克兰每年不管使用与否，都要支付500亿立方米天然气的钱。佩特洛夫说，2011年，乌克兰只用了440亿立方米天然气，而在接下来的2012年和去年，这一数字分别降至320亿立方米和280亿立方米。去年，乌克兰经济衰退，东部依赖天然气的重工业燃料消耗降低。