A HIGHLY qualified student, with a 3.95 unweighted grade point average and 2300 on the SAT, was not among the top-ranked engineering applicants to the University of California, Berkeley. He had perfect 800s on his subject tests in math and chemistry, a score of 5 on five Advanced Placement exams, musical talent and, in one of two personal statements, had written a loving tribute to his parents, who had emigrated from India.
有这样一位非常优秀的学生，拥有高达3.95的未加权平均绩点与2300的SAT分数，但在加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)工程学专业的申请中，他却不在最高得分者之列。他在数学与化学的科目测试中得到了完美的800分，在5项大学预修课程(Advanced Placement)测试中得到了5分的总分，还拥有音乐天赋，而在他的两份个人陈述中的其中一份里，他还表达了对从印度移民至美国的父母的爱。
Why was he not top-ranked by the “world’s premier public university,” as Berkeley calls itself? Perhaps others had perfect grades and scores? They did indeed. Were they ranked higher? Not necessarily. What kind of student was ranked higher? Every case is different.
为什么在伯克利这所自认为是“世界第一公立大学”的学府看来，他无法名列前茅？可能其他人也拥有完美的成绩与分数？的确如此。那他们会比他排名更高吗？并不见得。什么样的学生排名更高？每一个个案都是不同的。
The reason our budding engineer was a 2 on a 1-to-5 scale (1 being highest) has to do with Berkeley’s holistic, or comprehensive, review, an admissions policy adopted by most selective colleges and universities. In holistic review, institutions look beyond grades and scores to determine academic potential, drive and leadership abilities. Apparently, our Indian-American student needed more extracurricular activities and engineering awards to be ranked a 1.
我们这位初露头角的工程师在1-5的评分系统里得到了2分（1分是最高分），原因与伯克利整体性或曰综合性的视角有关，这样的招生政策被绝大多数精挑细选的学院与大学所采用。在整体评估录取中，学校在发掘学生的学术潜力、动机以及领导能力时，所看的要远不止绩点与分数。很明显，我们的这位印裔美籍学生需要更多课外活动以及工程学相关的奖项才能进入1分的行列。
Now consider a second engineering applicant, a Mexican-American student with a moving, well-written essay but a 3.4 G.P.A. and SATs below 1800. His school offered no A.P. He competed in track when not at his after-school job, working the fields with his parents. His score? 2.5.
现在再来看第二位工程专业的申请者，他是一位墨西哥裔的美籍学生，论文写得很不错很感人，但绩点分只有3.4，SAT不到1800分。他的学校并不提供大学预修课程。在放学后，他要么下地帮父母干活，要么参加田径队的比赛。他得到的评分？2.5。
Both students were among “typical” applicants used as norms to train application readers like myself. And their different credentials yet remarkably close rankings illustrate the challenges, the ambiguities and the agenda of admissions at a major public research university in a post-affirmative-action world.
这两个学生都是被拿来当作标准的“典型”申请者，用以培训像我这样的申请材料审阅人员。他们完全不同的材料、背景与极其接近的排名展现了这项工作的挑战与微妙之处，以及在后平权法案(Affirmative action)时代一个著名公立研究型大学的招生议程。
WHILE teaching ethics at the University of San Francisco, I signed on as an “external reader” at Berkeley for the fall 2011 admissions cycle. I was one of about 70 outside readers — some high school counselors, some private admissions consultants — who helped rank the nearly 53,000 applications that year, giving each about eight minutes of attention. An applicant scoring a 4 or 5 was probably going to be disappointed; a 3 might be deferred to a January entry; students with a 1, 2 or 2.5 went to the top of the pile, but that didn’t mean they were in. Berkeley might accept 21 percent of freshman applicants over all but only 12 percent in engineering.
我平时在旧金山大学(University of San Francisco)教授伦理学，在2011年秋季招生中成为伯克利的“外部申阅人”。外部审阅人一共有70位左右——其中有几位高中顾问与几位私人招生顾问——一起帮忙为那一年近5.3万名申请者进行排名，在每一份申请上花大概8分钟的时间。得到4分或者5分的申请者很可能会失望而归；3分申请者也许会被推迟到1月时再作考虑；1分、2分或2.5分的学生属于顶尖行列，但这也并不代表他们已经得到了名额。伯克利在所有新生申请者之中也许会接受其中的21%，但在工程学专业，只有12%的学生能得到机会。
My job was to help sort the pool.
我的工作就是帮助他们进行筛选。
We were to assess each piece of information — grades, courses, standardized test scores, activities, leadership potential and character — in an additive fashion, looking for ways to advance the student to the next level, as opposed to counting any factor as a negative.
我们评估每一条信息——成绩、课程、标准化考试得分、课外活动、领导潜力以及性格——整体方向是积极的，寻找各种可以让学生们进阶到更高级别的方法，反对将任何因素都往负面方向考虑。
External readers are only the first read. Every one of our applications was scored by an experienced lead reader before being passed on to an inner committee of admissions officers for the selection phase. My new position required two days of intensive training at the Berkeley Alumni House as well as eight three-hour norming sessions. There, we practiced ranking under the supervision of lead readers and admissions officers to ensure our decisions conformed to the criteria outlined by the admissions office, with the intent of giving applicants as close to equal treatment as possible.
外部审阅人只是第一道关。在被递交到招生官员的一个内部委员会进行筛选之前，我们的每一位申请者都会被一位富有经验的主要审阅人打分。我的这个新职位需要我在伯克利校友会接受2天的密集培训，还有8次长达3小时的规范化课程。在那里，我们在主要审阅人与招生官员的监督之下练习给出排名，以确保我们的决定与招生办公室定下的规则相符，旨在尽可能地给予申请者最公平的对待。
The process, however, turned out very differently.
但是，这个过程最后所呈现的样子，却变得非常不一样。
In principle, a broader examination of candidates is a great idea; some might say it is an ethical imperative to look at the “bigger picture” of an applicant’s life, as our mission was described. Considering the bigger picture has aided Berkeley’s pursuit of diversity after Proposition 209, which in 1996 amended California’s constitution to prohibit consideration of race, ethnicity or gender in admissions to public institutions. In Fisher v. the University of Texas, the Supreme Court, too, endorsed race-neutral processes aimed at promoting educational diversity and, on throwing the case back to lower courts, challenged public institutions to justify race as a factor in the holistic process.
在原则上，对参与申请者进行一次更广泛的检视是一个很棒的主意；有些人可能会说，在道德上，我们很有必要看看申请者生活的“大背景”，就像我们的职能中所描述的。于1996年颁布的209提案（Proposition 209，全称《加利福尼亚民权动议》）禁止加州的公立学校在招生时将人种、种族或性别列入考虑范围。在费舍诉德州大学案(Fisher v. University of Texas)中，最高法院也支持旨在推广教育多样性的种族中立化过程，把这件案子交回给低级别法院，质疑了公立学校在招生的整体过程中将种族当作筛选因素的做法。
In practice, holistic admissions raises many questions about who gets selected, how and why.
在实际操作中，整体评估录取在挑选谁、如何挑选以及为什么这些方面上引发了许多问题。
I could see the fundamental unevenness in this process both in the norming Webinars and when alone in a dark room at home with my Berkeley-issued netbook, reading assigned applications away from enormously curious family members. First and foremost, the process is confusingly subjective, despite all the objective criteria I was trained to examine.
不管是在规范化视频会议中，还是避开极度好奇的家人，独自待在一个昏暗的房间里，手边放着伯克利配发的上网本，阅读那些被分派给我的申请资料的时候，我都能看到非常重大的不平衡存在。首先，也是最重要的，这个过程主观得令人疑惑，尽管我受到的培训要求我检查所有客观的评判标准。
In norming sessions, I remember how lead readers would raise a candidate’s ranking because he or she “helped build the class.” I never quite grasped how to build a class of freshmen from California — the priority, it was explained in the first day’s pep talk — while seeming to prize the high-paying out-of-state students who are so attractive during times of a growing budget gap. (A special team handled international applications.)
在规范化课程上，我记得主审人将一位申请者的分数提高，因为他或她“帮助建立班集体”。我一直不是很能理解，要怎么建立一个全部由来自加州的新生组成的班集体——在第一天培训的激励谈话中，他们解释了类似这样的优先加分——而与此同时，他们貌似又要给交付更多学费的外州学生以优待，因为在这个预算差额不断增长的时间点，他们非常有吸引力。（有一个特别团队专门处理国际学生的申请。）
In one norming session, puzzled readers questioned why a student who resembled a throng of applicants and had only a 3.5 G.P.A. should rank so highly. Could it be because he was a nonresident and had wealthy parents? (He had taken one of the expensive volunteer trips to Africa that we were told should not impress us.)
在一次规范化课程上，一头雾水的审阅人们提问，为什么一个与其他许多申请者并没有什么区别的、绩点仅为3.5的学生得到的排名会如此之高。是不是因为他并不是本州居民，而且他的父母非常富有？（他参加了一个昂贵的志愿者性质的非洲旅行，我们曾被告知这件事并不属于考虑范围。）
Income, an optional item on the application, would appear on the very first screen we saw, along with applicant name, address and family information. We also saw the high school’s state performance ranking. All this can be revealing.
收入在申请书中是一个可选选项，而在我们审阅时看到的第一幕中它就出现了，和申请者的名字、地址以及家庭信息放在一起。我们还能看到高中所在州的表现排名。这些很能说明问题。
Admissions officials were careful not to mention gender, ethnicity and race during our training sessions. Norming examples were our guide.
在我们的培训课程上，招生官员们很小心地没有提及性别、种族以及人种。规范化范例是给我们的指导说明。
Privately, I asked an officer point-blank: “What are we doing about race?”
私底下，我直接问一位官员：“我们对于种族方面的问题应该怎么做？”
She nodded sympathetically at my confusion but warned that it would be illegal to consider: we’re looking at — again, that phrase — the “bigger picture” of the applicant’s life.
她对我的疑惑同情地点头，但还是警告我，如果考虑种族的话会造成违法：我们正在审视的——又是那句话——是申请者生活的“大背景”。
After the next training session, when I asked about an Asian student who I thought was a 2 but had only received a 3, the officer noted: “Oh, you’ll get a lot of them.” She said the same when I asked why a low-income student with top grades and scores, and who had served in the Israeli army, was a 3.
下一次培训课程上，当我问起一个被我评为2分最终却只获得3分的亚裔学生时，那位官员回答：“哦，因为你会看到很多这样的人。”当我疑惑一位曾在以色列军队服役、拥有最优异绩点与分数的贫困学生为什么只能得到3分时，她给予了同样的回答。
Which them? I had wondered. Did she mean I’d see a lot of 4.0 G.P.A.’s, or a lot of applicants whose bigger picture would fail to advance them, or a lot of Jewish and Asian applicants (Berkeley is 43 percent Asian, 11 percent Latino and 3 percent black)?
哪些人？我很想知道。她的意思是，我将会看到很多绩点分达到4.0的人，或者很多大背景不能助其更进一步的申请者，还是很多犹太裔与亚裔申请者（伯克利的学生有43%是亚裔，11%为拉丁裔，3%是黑人）？
The idea behind multiple readers is to prevent any single reader from making an outlier decision. And some of the rankings I gave actual applicants were overturned up the reading hierarchy. I received an e-mail from the assistant director suggesting I was not with the program: “You’ve got 15 outlier, which is quite a lot. Mainly you gave 4’s and the final scores were 2’s and 2.5’s.” As I continued reading, I should keep an eye on the “percentile report on the e-viewer” and adjust my rankings accordingly.
让多重审阅人参与这个过程，是为了防止单一的审阅人做出不合理的决定。我所给出的有些排名被更高级别的审阅人改正了。我收到一封来自助理主管的邮件，提醒我给出的评分与系统要求不符：“你有15个异常给分，这个数量很可观。大部分你给出4分的申请者最终得分是2分与2.5分。”在我继续审阅的过程中，我必须时刻关注“网络审阅百分比报告”，来据此调整我的给分。
In a second e-mail, I was told I needed more 1’s and referrals. A referral is a flag that a student’s grades and scores do not make the cut but the application merits a special read because of “stressors” — socioeconomic disadvantages that admissions offices can use to increase diversity.
在第二封邮件中，我被告知我需要给出更多的1分以及参照。参照是一个标记，当某位学生的绩点与分数并没有达到标准，但是申请材料得益于“闪光点” ——拥有社会经济方面的不利因素而有其特殊之处时，招生官员就可以使用它来增加生源中的多样性。
Officially, like all readers, I was to exclude minority background from my consideration. I was simply to notice whether the student came from a non-English-speaking household. I was not told what to do with this information — except that it may be a stressor if the personal statement revealed the student was having trouble adjusting to coursework in English. In such a case, I could refer the applicant for a special read.
正式层面上，像其他审阅人一样，我在考量中排除了少数族群背景的影响。我只是单纯地注意到，这个学生是否来自非英语家庭。没有人告诉我这个信息有什么用——除非当个人陈述显示这个学生曾在学习英文课程中遇到困难，这可能会成为一个闪光点。在这样的案例中，我可以将其做上特殊标记。
Why did I hear so many times from the assistant director? I think I got lost in the unspoken directives. Some things can’t be spelled out, but they have to be known. Application readers must simply pick it up by osmosis, so that the process of detecting objective factors of disadvantage becomes tricky.
为什么我收到了那么多次助理主管的邮件？我觉得我在这些不成文的指导之中迷失了。有些事情不能拿到台面上来说，但我们必须心领神会。申请审阅者必须在潜移默化中熟悉它们，所以在寻找学生在客观方面所遇障碍的过程显得有些微妙。
It’s an extreme version of the American non-conversation about race.
这是在美国与种族相关的潜规则的一个极端表现。
I scoured applications for stressors.
我努力找寻申请材料中的闪光点。
To better understand stressors, I was trained to look for the “helpful” personal statement that elevates a candidate. Here I encountered through-the-looking-glass moments: an inspiring account of achievements may be less “helpful” than a report of the hardships that prevented the student from achieving better grades, test scores and honors.
为了更好地理解闪光点的含义，在培训中他们让我找出可以提升申请者排名的“有帮助的”个人陈述。在这里我像是进入了“爱丽丝奇遇记”：一系列非常优秀的成就，可能还不如一个描述有各种困难使得该学生没有能得到更好的绩点、分数与荣誉的报告更加“有帮助”。
Should I value consistent excellence or better results at the end of a personal struggle? I applied both, depending on race. An underrepresented minority could be the phoenix, I decided.
持续的卓越表现，以及与困难斗争后的相对较好表现，我应该更推崇哪个？在种族的基础上，这二者我都进行了考量。我决定，一个被未被充分代表的少数种群应该得到优待。
We were not to hold a lack of Advanced Placement courses against applicants. Highest attention was to be paid to the unweighted G.P.A., as schools in low-income neighborhoods may not offer A.P. courses, which are given more weight in G.P.A. calculation. Yet readers also want to know if a student has taken challenging courses, and will consider A.P.’s along with key college-prep subjects, known as a-g courses, required by the U.C. system.
我们并不会把没有读过大学预修课程作为申请者的不足之处。最大的关注点在于未加权绩点，因为有些低收入社区的学校并不提供大学预修课程，而在加权绩点中它会被计算在内。但在加州大学伯克利分校的系统要求下，审阅者仍然希望知道学生们有没有参加挑战课程(challenging courses)，也会将大学预修课程与被称为a-g课程的关键预科科目考虑在内。
Even such objective information was open to interpretation. During training Webinars, we argued over transcripts. I scribbled this exchange in my notes:
甚至连这些客观的信息都可以有各种不同理解方式。在培训视频会议上，我们为成绩单进行了辩论。我在笔记中潦草地记下了这些例子：
A reader ranks an applicant low because she sees an “overcount” in the student’s a-g courses. She thinks the courses were miscounted or perhaps counted higher than they should have been.
一个审阅人将一位申请者的排名打得很低，因为她在该学生的a-g课程中看到了“过高”评估。她认为，这些课程的价值被错估了，或者高估了。
Another reader sees an undercount and charges the first reader with “trying to cut this girl down.”
另一个审阅人看到这一过低评估，投诉第一位审阅人“想要把这个女生刷掉”。
The lead reader corrects: “We’re not here to cut down a student.” We’re here to find factors that advance the student to a higher ranking.
主要审阅人纠正道：“我们在这里不是为了要刷掉某个学生。”我们的目的是要找到能够让学生跻身更高排名的因素。
Another reader thinks the student is “good” but we have so many of “these kids.” She doesn’t see any leadership beyond the student’s own projects.
另一个审阅人认为这个学生挺“优秀”，但我们有太多“这样的孩子”了。除了本身的东西之外，她在这孩子身上并没有什么看到什么领袖气质。
Listening to these conversations, I had to wonder exactly how elite institutions define leadership. I was supposed to find this major criterion holistically in the application. Some students took leadership courses. Most often, it was demonstrated in extracurricular activities.
听着这些对话，我不禁感到好奇，这些精英学校到底是如何定义领袖能力的。我本来应该在入学申请的整体性主要标准中弄明白它的。有些学生上过领导力课程。更常见的是，它是在课外的活动中显现出来的。
Surely Berkeley seeks the class president, the organizer of a volunteer effort, the team captain. But there are so many other types of contributions to evaluate. Is the kindergarten aide or soup kitchen volunteer not a leader?
当然了，伯克利在寻找班级的领袖，志愿者活动的组织者，团队的领路人。但还有其他许多种类的贡献也应该被计算在内。幼儿园助理或者慈善厨房志愿者难道就不是领导者吗？
And what about “blue noise,” what the admissions pros called the blank blue screen when there were no activities listed? In my application pile, many students from immigrant households had excellent grades and test scores but few activities. I commented in my notes: “Good student, but not many interests or activities? Why? Busy working parents? And/or not able to afford, or get to, activities?”
那“蓝噪声”呢？招生专家用这个词来形容空白的蓝色屏幕，上面没有列出任何活动。在我的审阅文件中，有许多来自移民家庭的学生拥有优异的成绩与分数，但活动却是寥寥无几。我在我的笔记中评论道：“好学生，但是没有太多兴趣或者活动？为什么？家长工作太忙？以及/或者没有钱来负担与参加活动？”
IN personal statements, we had been told to read for the “authentic” voice over students whose writing bragged of volunteer trips to exotic places or anything that “smacks of privilege.”
在个人陈述方面，我们被告知，对于那些自称参加过国外志愿者旅行或者拥有任何“巨大优势”的人，要在阅读中找寻比较“可信的”说法。
Fortunately, that authentic voice articulated itself abundantly. Many essays lucidly expressed a sense of self and character — no small task in a sea of applicants. Less happily, many betrayed the handiwork of pricey application packagers, whose cloying, pompous style was instantly detectable, as were canny attempts to catch some sympathy with a personal story of generalized misery. The torrent of woe could make a reader numb: not another student suffering from parents’ divorce, a learning difference, a rare disease, even dandruff!
幸运的是，这种可信的说法是可以被充分自我表达的。有很多文章很清晰地表达了自我与性格意识——在人山人海的申请者中，这并不是很容易就能完成的任务。不那么令人愉快的是，有很多人辜负了价格不菲的申请包裹，那种甜腻、浮华的的文风让人马上就能察觉这是他们精明的尝试，试图用一个含糊的悲惨故事来赢取一些同情。这种不断涌现的悲惨情节会让审阅人感到麻木：怎么又是一个被父母离异、学习障碍、身患奇病甚至是头皮屑所困扰的学生！
As I developed the hard eye of a slush pile reader at a popular-fiction agency, I asked my lead readers whether some of these stressors might even be credible. I was told not to second-guess the essays but simply to pick the most worthy candidate. Still, I couldn’t help but ask questions that were not part of my reader job.
在我发展出了在流行小说出版社审读爱情小说的那种严苛眼光后，我问我的主要审阅人，某些闪光点是否可信。我得到的回答是，不要对材料进行预测，简单地挑出最有价值的申请人就可以了。可我还是忍不住问出那些并不属于我审阅职责范围的问题。
The assistant director’s words — look for “evidence a student can succeed at Berkeley” — echoed in my ears when I wanted to give a disadvantaged applicant a leg up in the world. I wanted to help. Surely, if these students got to Berkeley they would be exposed to all sorts of test-taking and studying techniques.
助理主管的原话——要寻找“一个学生能够在伯克利获得成功的证据”——当我想要助一个条件不大好的学生一臂之力的时候，这些话一直在我耳中回响。我想要帮助他们。当然了，如果这些学生进入了伯克利，他们会遭遇各种形式的考试与技巧的学习。
But would they be able to compete with the engineering applicant with the 3.95 G.P.A. and 2300 SATs? Does Berkeley have sufficient support services to bridge gaps and ensure success? Could this student with a story full of stressors and remedial-level writing skills survive in a college writing course?
但他们有能力与那些拥有3.95的绩点分以及2300的SAT分数的工程学申请者竞争吗？伯克利有没有足够的服务来支持他们填平与那些学生的差距，确保他们的成功？这个学生能不能用这样一个充满闪光点的故事以及低级别的写作水平在大学写作课程中得到通过？
I wanted every freshman walking through Sather Gate to succeed.
我希望每个走过萨瑟门(Sather Gate)的大一新生都可以成功。
Underrepresented minorities still lag behind: about 92 percent of whites and Asians at Berkeley graduate within six years, compared with 81 percent of Hispanics and 71 percent of blacks. A study of the University of California system shows that 17 percent of underrepresented minority students who express interest in the sciences graduate with a science degree within five years, compared with 31 percent of white students.
未被充分代表的少数族群仍然落得很远：在伯克利，92%的白人与亚裔学生能在6年之内毕业，而81%的西班牙裔学生与71%的黑人学生可以在6年内完成学业。一个对加州大学系统的研究表明，有17%的未被充分代表族群学生在表现出对科学感兴趣之后能够在5年内拿到相应学位，白人学生中则有31%能做到这一点。
When the invitation came to sign up for the next application cycle, I wavered. My job as an application reader — evaluating the potential success of so many hopeful students — had been one of the most serious endeavors of my academic career. But the opaque and secretive nature of the process had made me queasy. Wouldn’t better disclosure of how decisions are made help families better position their children? Does Proposition 209 serve merely to push race underground? Can the playing field of admissions ever be level?
当他们邀请我签约进入下一招生环节时，我犹豫了。我的职责是申请材料审阅——衡量如此之多有希望的学生的成功潜力——这已经成为了我学术生涯中最严肃的领域。但这一过程的不透明以及神秘让我觉得反胃。如果公开决定是如何做出的，从而帮助家庭更好地定位他们的孩子，难道不是更好吗？209提案的作用仅仅是让种族问题转入地下？招生世界能不能公平一些？
For me, the process presented simply too many moral dilemmas. In the end, I chose not to participate again.
对我来说，这一过程所表现出来的，只是过多的道德困境。最后，我选择不再继续参与。
BERKELEY ON BERKELEY ADMISSIONS
伯克利官员谈招生
“In general, we have an incredibly successful story to tell about our process,” said Amy Jarich, who has been director of admissions at the University of California, Berkeley, since September.
“总的来说，我们可以说我们的招生过程成功得令人难以置信，”艾米·亚里奇(Amy Jarich)说，她从9月起担任伯克利的招生主管。
In an interview, Ms. Jarich responded to some of the issues raised by Ruth A. Starkman in her essay on the training of outside application readers and Berkeley’s admissions process — a process Ms. Jarich calls transparent. (Freshman selection criteria and reports on comprehensive review can be found on Berkeley’s Web site.)
在一次采访中，亚里奇回应了一些由露丝·斯塔克曼在她关于伯克利招生过程中对外部审阅人进行培训的论文中所提出的一系列问题——亚里奇称，这样的招生是透明的。（新生的筛选标准与整体分析录取的报告可以在伯克利官方网站上找到。）
“The training process is tried and true,” she said. “We try to do consistent training that helps people understand the policies and also the practice.”
“培训过程是可靠与真实的，”她说，“我们试图做一个贯彻始终的培训，帮助人们理解政策以及其实践。”
On the application examples used in training, she said, “we intentionally pick the trickiest cases to norm with, aimed at generating discussion,” after which many new readers have to adjust their scoring.
对于在培训中使用的申请样本，她说：“我们故意挑选了最微妙的例子来进行规范化培训，目的就是想引起大家的讨论。”在那之后，许多新审阅人会调整他们的给分。
Noting that reading applications is “an art,” she said that Proposition 209 was a challenge that created the need for readers to separate out in their minds race, ethnicity and gender. “Other factors, like reported family income, do not make the decision for us, but they do inform us as we read in context.”
她指出，审阅申请材料是“一项艺术”，209提案则是挑战，使得审阅人有必要在脑中彻底抛开人种、种族与性别。“其他因素，就像文中提到的家庭收入，对我们来说并没有决定性意义，但它们为我们提供了审阅时的语境。”
“We’re very sensitive to the fact that we want to pull in a socioeconomically diverse group,” she said, naming several programs in place to help students graduate.
“对于我们想要组建一个在社会、经济上多样化的群体这一事实，我们是非常敏感的，”她说道，并列举了一些旨在帮助学生毕业的项目。
To further diversify, the chancellor has set a goal that 20 percent of students come from outside California, she said. Calling the in-state/out-of-state argument “so political,” she added: “It’s hard to close your mind to it, but in the review process it’s not a factor.” Nor are candidates compared, she said. “Nobody should say we have too many of one and not enough of another.”
为了更好地完成多样化环境的组建，这位管理者还定下了目标，要招收20%的非加州本地学生。在她看来，这种州内与州外的争辩“太政治化了”，她还补充道：“在你的脑中完全忘掉它很难，但在录取过程中，这并不是一个考量的因素。” 她说，申请人们也不会被拿来比较。“没人会说，我们有太多这样的学生，而那样的学生则还不够。”
“The student reports to us their G.P.A., and shows us every strength and every marker,” she said. Readers in the application-review stage should not consider “anything that’s out of that student’s control.”
“学生们向我们展示了他们的绩点分，他们的每一个优点以及特点，”她说。在申请审阅阶段，审阅人不会考虑“在学生本人控制以外的任何事情”。