Panda lovers, rejoice. Mei Xiang, the female giant panda at the National Zoo in Washington, gave birth to healthy twin cubs on Saturday afternoon, just three days after the zoo’s staff discovered that she was pregnant. The birth was broadcast live online on the zoo’s Panda Cam and announced on its official Twitter account.
喜欢熊猫的人，应该高兴了。华盛顿国家动物园的雌性大熊猫“美香”在周六产下一对健康幼崽。直到三天前，动物园工作人员才发现它怀孕了。动物园在自己的平台Panda Cam上在线直播了分娩过程，并在官方Twitter账号上宣布了这则消息。
The first birth, at 5:34 p.m., was broadcast live online on the zoo’s Panda Cam and announced on its official Twitter account. The second birth, at 10:07 p.m., was unexpected and was announced on Twitter. 
第一只幼崽在下午5点34分降生，动物园在网上进行了直播。第二只生于晚上10点07分，动物园事先没有思想准备，事后在Twitter上进行了通报。
Mei Xiang is a minor celebrity in Washington, and her breeding is closely watched by panda fans around the world. On Saturday, people could watch live online as she gave birth, which happened 30 minutes after her water broke as she lay on her back in a narrow cage.
美香在华盛顿小有名气。全世界喜欢熊猫的人都密切关注它的生养繁殖。周六当天，人们可以在线观看它的分娩过程。平躺在一个小笼子里的它，是在羊水破了30分钟后开始分娩的。
“It doesn’t get old for us,” Laurie Thompson, a zoo official, told reporters on Saturday. “We’re very excited to share this with you guys, our new cub.”
“那个情景我们百看不厌，”动物园工作人员劳里·汤普森(Laurie Thompson)周六对记者表示。“能和你们一起见证这只幼崽的出生，我们感到非常激动。”
Ms. Thompson, speaking before the second birth, said the mother and the first cub were “doing really, really well.” The zoo said it expected that Mei Xiang would spend the next one to two weeks in her den bonding with the cub. Veterinarians have not handled the cub yet, they said, and do not expect to examine the animal for several weeks. Its sex will be determined at that time.
汤普森在第二只出生前说，美香和第一个幼崽“状况真的很好”。该动物园称，预计在接下来的一到两周时间里，美香会一直待在那个小笼子里，和幼崽建立感情。动物园方面表示，兽医还未对熊猫幼崽进行处理，并且预计要过几周才会对其进行体检。届时，幼崽的性别将得到确认。
The zoo announced around 2:30 p.m. that it believed Mei Xiang was in labor and later posted on Twitter that a cub had been born at 5:34. The cub is Mei Xiang’s fourth since 2005.
动物园在下午2点30分表示，他们认为美香即将分娩，后来在Twitter上发帖称，它在5点34分诞下一只幼崽。这是美香自2005年以来产下的第四只幼崽。
Zookeepers were not sure that she was pregnant until they discovered a four-centimeter-long fetus during an ultrasound procedure Wednesday morning. At the time, the zoo predicted that the cub would be born between Aug. 28 and mid-September but also warned that there was “a substantial possibility” that Mei Xiang could “resorb or miscarry” the fetus. It is not known why some mammals resorb fetuses, the zoo said.
动物园管理员一直不确定美香是否怀孕了，直到在周三上午的一次超声波检查中发现了一个四厘米长的胎儿。动物园当时预计，幼崽的出生时间将在8月28日到九月中旬期间，但也警告称美香有“很大的可能性”会将胎儿“重新吸收或流产”。该动物园称，尚不清楚为何一些哺乳动物会吸收自己的胎儿。
But those warnings appeared to be for naught on Saturday. The zoo said it would release pictures and video of the cub soon.
但到了周六，这些警告似乎都失去了意义。动物园表示很快将公布幼崽的照片和视频。
Giant panda cubs look very different from adult pandas. They are tiny, blind and toothless, and they more closely resemble a pale rodent than a black and white bear.
大熊猫幼崽看上去和成年大熊猫极为不同。它们体型瘦小、没有视力和牙齿，更像是一只苍白的啮齿类动物，而非毛色黑白相间的大熊猫。
Giant pandas mate infrequently, and the birth of a healthy cub is uncommon. Only two of Mei Xiang’s three previous cubs survived longer than a few days: Tai Shan, who born in 2005, and Bao Bao, who was born in 2013. Her third surviving cub died in 2012 a few days after its birth.
大熊猫不频繁交配，生出健康幼崽的情况也不常见。在此前，美香生下的三只幼崽中，只有两只的寿命超过了几天：一只是2005年出生的“泰山”，另一只是2013年出生的“宝宝”。还有一只幼崽生于2012年，但出生几天后便夭折了。
The National Zoo said on Wednesday that it did not know the identity of the cub’s father. Mei Xiang was artificially inseminated on April 26 and 27 with semen from both Hui Hui, a giant panda who lives at the China Conservation and Research Center for the Giant Panda in China’s Sichuan Province, and Tian Tian, a giant panda at the National Zoo.
国家动物园在周三表示，不确定这只幼崽的父亲的身份。美香在4月26日和27日接受了人工授精，精液分别来自四川中国保护大熊猫研究中心的大熊猫“辉辉”，和与美香同处一家动物园的大熊猫“添添”。
Hui Hui’s semen was collected in China, frozen and flown to Washington while zookeepers used what they called “high-quality fresh semen” collected from Tian Tian.
辉辉的精液是在中国采集和冷冻，再空运至华盛顿的。而来自添添的精液则是动物园管理人员自己采集的，他们说那是“高质量的新鲜精液”。
“A cub by Mei Xiang and Hui Hui would be very genetically valuable, helping to preserve the genetic diversity of the panda population in human care,” the zoo said in a statement Wednesday.
“美香如果和辉辉生下幼崽，从遗传角度来说会很宝贵，有助于保护人工养殖的大熊猫的基因多样性，”动物园在周三发布的声明中说。