LOS ANGELES — In the heart of Northern California’s marijuana growing region, the sheriff’s office is inundated each fall with complaints about the stench of marijuana plots or the latest expropriation of public land by growers. Its tranquil communities have been altered by the emergence of a wealthy class of marijuana entrepreneurs, while nearly 500 miles away in Los Angeles, officials have struggled to regulate an explosion of medical marijuana shops.
洛杉矶——在北加州大麻种植区的心脏地带，治安官办公室每年秋天都会被有关大麻地的恶臭或种植者新近又征用了公共土地的投诉淹没。那里平静的社区也因富裕的大麻种植者群体的出现而改变。而在近500英里（约合800公里）外的洛杉矶，官员们也无法有效调控医用大麻商店的激增。
But at a time when polls show widening public support for legalization — recreational marijuana is about to become legal in Colorado and Washington, and voter initiatives are in the pipeline in at least three other states — California’s 17-year experience as the first state to legalize medical marijuana offers surprising lessons, experts say.
但专家称，当调查显示，公众越来越支持大麻合法化之际，首个将医用大麻合法化的州加利福尼亚州17年的经验提供了一些惊人的教训。在科罗拉多州和华盛顿州，消遣用大麻即将合法，而在其他至少三个州，选民们正在筹备相关行动。
Warnings voiced against partial legalization — of civic disorder, increased lawlessness and a drastic rise in other drug use — have proved unfounded.
事实证明，反对大麻部分合法化的人称这会导致社会混乱，加剧目无法纪的现象，并会造成其他毒品使用的剧增，这些告诫被证明毫无根据。
Instead, research suggests both that marijuana has become an alcohol substitute for younger people here and in other states that have legalized medical marijuana, and that while driving under the influence of any intoxicant is dangerous, driving after smoking marijuana is less dangerous than after drinking alcohol.
相反，研究表明，对这里和其他医用大麻合法化的州的年轻人而言，大麻已经成了酒精的替代品，而且尽管在任何麻醉剂的影响下开车都很危险，但吸大麻后开车的危险性比饮酒后开车的危险性小。
Although marijuana is legal here only for medical use, it is widely available. There is no evidence that its use by teenagers has risen since the 1996 legalization, though it is an open question whether outright legalization would make the drug that much easier for young people to get, and thus contribute to increased use.
尽管在这里，大麻只有在用于医疗用途时才合法，但随处能买到。没有证据表明，自1996年合法化医用大麻后青少年吸食大麻的情况增加了，不过完全将其合法后，年轻人会不会因而就能更容易得到大麻，而导致大麻使用的增加，这个问题尚没有定论。
And though Los Angeles has struggled to regulate marijuana dispensaries, with neighborhoods upset at their sheer number, the threat of unsavory street traffic and the stigma of marijuana shops on the corner, communities that imposed early and strict regulations on their operations have not experienced such disruption.
洛杉矶很难管控大麻药房，许多社区也对它们的数量之多、对道路交通可能带来的恼人影响，以及街角大麻商店带来的耻辱而感到心烦意乱。然而，尽管如此，那些很早就对大麻药房施行严格管控的社区并未经历过这种烦扰。
Imposing a local tax on medical marijuana, as Oakland, San Jose and other communities have done, has not pushed consumers to drug dealers as some analysts expected. Presumably that is because it is so easy to get reliable and high-quality marijuana legally.
像奥克兰、圣何塞和其他社区那样对医用大麻征收地方税并未像一些分析人士预计的那样，迫使消费者转而求助于贩毒者。这大概是因为他们可以非常轻松地以合法方式获取可靠的优质大麻。
Finally, for consumers, the era of legalized medical marijuana has meant an expanded market and often cheaper prices. Buyers here gaze over showcases offering a rich assortment of marijuana, promising different potencies and different kinds of highs. Cannabis sativa produces a pronounced psychological high, a “head buzz,” while cannabis indica delivers a more relaxed, lethargic effect, a “body buzz.”
最后，对消费者而言，医用大麻合法化的时代意味着市场会扩大，价格通常也会更低。购买者所看到的橱窗里大麻产品种类丰富，并承诺会带来不同功效和多种快感。寻常大麻会带来一种明显的心理快感，“让大脑兴奋”，而印度大麻则会带来一种更放松、更让人昏昏欲睡的效果，“让身体愉悦”。
Advocates for marijuana legalization see the moves in Colorado and Washington as the start of a wave. A Gallup poll released last week found that 58 percent of Americans think the drug should be made legal.
大麻合法化的倡导者认为，科罗拉多和华盛顿的举动是新一波行动的开始。盖洛普(Gallup)上周公布的民意调查显示，58%的美国人认为应该让大麻合法化。
“There is definitely going to be a legalization here at some point, one way or another, like in Colorado and Washington,” said Tom Ammiano, a Democratic state assemblyman from San Francisco who has pushed the Legislature to legalize recreational marijuana use.
“在某个时候，不管通过什么方式，这里肯定会像科罗拉多和华盛顿那样，将大麻合法化，”来自旧金山的民主党州议员汤姆·阿米亚诺(Tom Ammiano)说。他一直在推动州议会将消遣用大麻合法化。
Still, even as public opinion in support of legalizing marijuana has grown, opposition remains strong among many, including some law enforcement organizations, which warn that the use of the drug leads to marijuana dependence, endangers the health of users and encourages the use of other drugs.
然而，尽管民众对大麻合法化的支持增加了，许多人依然强烈反对，其中包括一些执法机构。它们警告称，使用大麻会导致对大麻的依赖、危及使用者的健康并鼓励其他毒品的使用。
“Unfortunately, many have been convinced that marijuana is harmless, and many in policing do not believe that is the case,” Darrel W. Stephens, the executive director of the Major Cities Chiefs Association, wrote in an e-mail.
“遗憾的是，许多人相信大麻是无害的，但很多执法人员认为这并非实情，”主要城市警察局长协会(Major Cities Chiefs Association)执行主管达雷尔 ·W·斯蒂芬斯(Darrel W. Stephens)在电子邮件中写道。
Craig T. Steckler, a former chief of the Police Department in Fremont, Calif., who is now the president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, said the problems in Los Angeles and robberies of cash-rich marijuana farms in Northern California were just two of the reasons states should hesitate before legalizing the drug.
前加州弗里蒙特警察局局长、国际警察首长协会(International Association of Chiefs of Police)现任会长克雷格·T·斯特克勒(Craig T. Steckler)说，洛杉矶的问题和北加州现金充裕的大麻种植园的抢劫问题，只是各州在将大麻合法化时应三思而后行的其中两个原因。
In a broad study on the ramifications of legalizing recreational marijuana about to be published in The Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, two economics professors said a survey of evidence showed a correlation between increased marijuana use and less alcohol use for people ages 18 to 29.
在就消遣用大麻合法化影响所做的一项广泛研究中，两名经济学教授称，对相关证据的研究显示，在18至29岁的人群中，大麻使用的增加和饮酒的减少存在相关性。该项研究即将在《政策分析和管理杂志》(The Journal of Policy Analysis and Management)上刊出。
The researchers, D. Mark Anderson of Montana State University and Daniel I. Rees of the University of Colorado, said that based on their study, they expected younger people in Colorado and Washington to use marijuana more and alcohol less.
两位研究人员，蒙大拿州立大学(Montana State University)的D·马克·安德森(D. Mark Anderson)和科罗拉多大学(University of Colorado)的丹尼尔·I·里斯(Daniel I. Rees)表示，根据他们的研究，他们预计科罗拉多州和华盛顿州的年轻人会增加大麻吸食量，减少酒精饮用量。
“These states will experience a reduction in the social harms resulting from alcohol use: Reducing traffic injuries and fatalities is potentially one of the most important,” the professors said.
“在这些州，酒精引发的社会危害将会减少：其中最重要的之一可能是交通伤亡事故的减少。”教授们说。 
The marijuana cultivation business in Northern California has been an economic boon for many communities, creating tax revenues, an industry of ancillary industries, and local wealth, visible by expensive cars parked along once dusty streets.
对于很多北加州的社区来说，这里的大麻种植业已经成为了经济上的一个福音，它带来了税收，形成了配套产业群，给当地创造了财富，这可以从曾经尘土飞扬的街道边停放的一辆辆昂贵汽车上看出来。
“A lot of cottage industries have popped up that service the marijuana industry,” said Scot Candell, a lawyer in San Rafael who specializes in medical marijuana clients. “Labs that do testing, hydroponic stores that provide growing equipment, software developers, insurance companies that specialize in dispensaries.”
“为大麻业服务的周边产业大量涌现，比如做测试的实验室，提供种植设备的大麻水培商店，软件开发商，专门做医药行业业务的保险公司。”加州圣拉斐尔的斯科特·坎德尔(Scot Candell)说，他是一名专门为医用大麻客户服务的律师。
Steve DeAngelo, the founder of the Harborside Health Center in Oakland, one of the state’s largest marijuana dispensaries, said his dispensary collected $1.2 million last year in marijuana sales tax for the city.
奥克兰的港湾健康中心(Harborside Health Center)是加州最大的大麻药房之一，其创办者史蒂夫·迪安基洛(Steve DeAngelo)说，这家药房去年给该市带来了120万美元的大麻销售税。
Medical marijuana, he said, has “created a whole new cast of people who have a vested interest in cannabis.”
他说，医用大麻导致了“一整批跟大麻存在利益关系的人”的出现。
“What was inevitable is that the movement, at some point, would go into hyper-speed, and that is what’s happening now,” he said.
“这个趋势到某个时候势必会进入超高速发展的阶段，目前就是这样，”他说。
This has altered the economy of places like Mendocino County.
这已经改变了门多西诺县等一些地方的经济状况。
“I am not aware of any business in Mendocino County that doesn’t consider marijuana as part of their business plan, and that can be good and bad,” said Sheriff Thomas D. Allman.
“就我所知，门多西诺县的所有商家在制定业务计划时都把大麻考虑在内，这可能是好事也是坏事。”警长托马斯· D·奥尔曼(Thomas D. Allman)说。
Mr. Candell said that while regulation was important, overregulation could be counterproductive. In California, several communities outlawed all marijuana dispensaries, giving rise to delivery services, which are not subject to regulation.
坎德尔说，虽然监管非常重要，但过度监管可能会适得其反。在加州，有几个社区将所有的大麻药房都视为非法，结果导致不受监管的大麻快递服务繁荣起来。
In Los Angeles, repeated attempts to regulate the stores have failed, causing an uproar in quiet neighborhoods like Larchmont and Mar Vista. Yet there is a lesson here: San Francisco, Oakland and Berkeley, which imposed strict regulations on the shops from the start, have had few problems.
洛杉矶多次尝试对这些药房进行监管，悉数以失败告终，还在拉奇蒙特和马维斯塔等平静的社区引发了轩然大波。但这里的经验教训是：旧金山、奥克兰和伯克利从一开始就对药房进行了严格监管，结果这些地方几乎没有出现什么问题。
“Those cities really took charge in 1996, saying: ‘We have to figure out how we are going to regulate this. We need to figure out how marijuana could be sold, how it will be regulated, what it will mean for tax revenue,’ ” Ms. Reiman said. “As a result, those three cities have seen little to no issues in terms of crime or public safety issues.”
“这三个城市确实在1996年就行动起来了，说‘我们必须弄清如何去规范这种东西。我们需要弄清大麻如何出售，如何监管，对税收有什么影响，’”雷曼说。“因此，从犯罪或公共安全角度来讲，这三个城市几乎没有出现什么问题。”
California has learned a lot in its years of dealing with a legal form of marijuana, Mr. Candell said. “But there are a lot of states that are just now going through it, and there are things they need to know.”
坎德尔说加州对合法形式的大麻已经有多年应对经验，从中学到了很多东西。“但很多州现在才刚刚开始经历这个过程，有些东西它们需要了解。”