WASHINGTON — A team of prominent constitutional scholars, Supreme Court litigators and former White House ethics lawyers intends to file a lawsuit Monday morning alleging that President Trump is violating the Constitution by allowing his hotels and other business operations to accept payments from foreign governments.
华盛顿——周一上午，一群杰出的宪法学者、最高法院诉讼律师和前白宫伦理律师打算提起诉讼，称特朗普总统允许自己的酒店和其他生意接受来自外国政府的付款，是违反宪法的行为。
The lawsuit is among a barrage of legal actions against the Trump administration that have been initiated or are being planned by major liberal advocacy organizations. Such suits are among the few outlets they have to challenge the administration now that Republicans are in control of the government.
这项诉讼是多个重要自由派倡导组织针对特朗普政府发起或正在策划的一连串法律行动之一。既然政府已经落入共和党手中，这类诉讼是他们挑战政府的为数不多的途径之一。
In the new case, the lawyers argue that a provision in the Constitution known as the Emoluments Clause amounts to a ban on payments from foreign powers like the ones to Mr. Trump’s companies. They cite fears by the framers of the Constitution that United States officials could be corrupted by gifts or payments.
这些律师在这起新案件中称，宪法中有一项名为薪酬条款(Emoluments Clause)的规定，禁止来自外国势力——如给特朗普公司付款的那些机构——的支付。他们援引了宪法制定者们的担忧，即美国官员有可能遭到礼物和支付的腐蚀。
The suit, which will not seek any monetary damages, will ask a federal court in New York to order Mr. Trump to stop taking payments from foreign government entities. Such payments, it says, include those from patrons at Trump hotels and golf courses, as well as loans for his office buildings from certain banks controlled by foreign governments, and leases with tenants like Qatar Airways, a government enterprise.
这场不打算寻求金钱赔偿的诉讼，将要求纽约的一家联邦法院下令特朗普停止接受外国政府实体的支付。它表示，此类支付包括在特朗普的酒店和高尔夫球场消费的顾客支付的费用、他的办公楼从某些由外国政府控制的银行获得的贷款，以及国有企业卡塔尔航空(Qatar Airways)等租户的租约。
“The framers of the Constitution were students of history,” said Deepak Gupta, one of the lawyers behind the suit. “And they understood that one way a republic could fail is if foreign powers could corrupt our elected leaders.”
“宪法的制定者研究过历史，”这起诉讼背后的律师之一迪帕克·古普塔(Deepak Gupta)说。“他们明白，一种可能会导致一个共和国走向衰败的情况是，外国势力贿赂我们的民选领导人。”
Eric Trump, who is an executive vice president of the Trump Organization, said the company had taken more steps than required by law to avoid any possible legal exposure, such as agreeing to donate any profits collected at Trump-owned hotels that come from foreign government guests to the United States Treasury.
特朗普集团(Trump Organization)的执行副总裁埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)说，公司为避免任何可能的法律风险而采取的措施比法律要求的还多，比如同意将特朗普名下酒店来自外国政府客户的全部利润捐给美国财政部。
“This is purely harassment for political gain, and, frankly, I find it very, very sad,” he said in an interview on Sunday.
“这纯粹是出于政治利益的骚扰，而且坦率地说，我觉得这件事非常非常可悲，”他周日接受采访时说。
The president’s lawyers have argued that the constitutional provision does not apply to fair-market payments, such as a standard hotel room bill, and is intended only to prevent federal officials from accepting a special consideration or gift from a foreign power.
总统的律师称，相关宪法条款不适用于公平市场的款项，如标准的酒店房间账单，并表示它只是为了防止联邦官员收受外国的特殊报酬或礼物。
“No one would have thought when the Constitution was written that paying your hotel bill was an emolument,” Sheri A. Dillon, a partner at Morgan Lewis, said at a news conference this month.
“制定宪法时，谁都没想到支付酒店账单是一种报酬，”摩根路易斯(Morgan Lewis)的合伙人谢莉·A·迪龙(Sheri A. Dillon)在本月的新闻发布会上说。
The legal team filing the lawsuit includes Laurence H. Tribe, a Harvard constitutional scholar; Norman L. Eisen, an Obama administration ethics lawyer; and Erwin Chemerinsky, the dean of the law school at the University of California, Irvine. Among the others are Richard W. Painter, an ethics counsel in the administration of George W. Bush; Mr. Gupta, a Supreme Court litigator who has three cases pending before the court; and Zephyr Teachout, a Fordham University law professor and former congressional candidate who has been studying and writing about the Emoluments Clause for nearly a decade.
提起诉讼的法律团队成员包括哈佛大学宪法学者劳伦斯·H·特赖布(Laurence H. Tribe)、奥巴马政府的伦理道德律师诺曼·L·艾森(Norman L. Eisen)和加州大学欧文分校(University of California, Irvine)法学院院长埃尔温·舍梅林斯基(Erwin Chemerinsky)。其他还包括乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的伦理律师理查德·W·佩恩特(Richard W. Painter)、有三桩官司正在审理过程中的最高法院诉讼律师古普塔和福特汉姆大学(Fordham University)法学教授、近十年来一直在研究并撰文分析薪酬条款的前国会议员候选人泽普里·蒂乔特(Zephyr Teachout)。
Foreign governments, Ms. Teachout and other ethics expert warn, could rent out rooms in Trump hotels as a way to send a message to the Trump family. “If you think other countries are not going to try to leverage relationships with Trump’s companies to influence trade or military policy, that is naïve,” she said.
蒂乔特和其他伦理专家警告称，外国政府可能会将特朗普酒店的房间租出去，以此向特朗普家族发出信号。“如果认为其他国家不会尝试利用与特朗普的公司的关系去影响贸易或军事政策，就太天真了，”她说。
But Andy Grewal, a University of Iowa law school professor, argued in an academic paper published last week that a payment to a hotel owned by the Trump family — like the Trump International Hotel in Washington — would not violate the Emoluments Clause because the money is paid to a corporate entity and not to Mr. Trump directly.
但艾奥瓦大学(University of Iowa)法学院教授安迪·格雷瓦尔(Andy Grewal)在上周发表的一篇学术论文中称，向特朗普家族拥有的酒店，如华盛顿的特朗普国际酒店付款不违反薪酬条款，因为钱是付给公司实体，而不是直接付给特朗普的。
“There is no connection between the payment and performance of services by the president personally,” Mr. Grewal said.
“款项和总统个人的服务表现没有关系，”格雷瓦尔说。
“It would be a lot of fun to watch,” he said of the lawsuit, “but I imagine it will be kicked out.”
“会很好看，”他指的是这起诉讼。“但我想它会被驳回。”
Mr. Eisen said the legal team intended to use the lawsuit to try to get a copy of Mr. Trump’s federal tax returns, which are needed to properly assess what income or other payments or loans Mr. Trump has received from foreign governments.
艾森说，法律团队打算利用这起诉讼拿到特朗普的联邦纳税申报表。要正确评估特朗普从外国政府取得了什么收入或其他款项或贷款，需要用到纳税申报表。
The plaintiff in the lawsuit is a liberal group known as Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, which until recently was controlled by David Brock, a Democratic Party operative and fervent supporter of Hillary Clinton’s campaign.
这起诉讼的原告是华盛顿一个叫公民责任与道德（Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics，简称CREW）的自由派团体。直到最近，该团体一直由大力支持希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的民主党人士戴维·布罗克(David Brock)控制。
Mr. Eisen now serves as chairman of the organization’s board, and Mr. Painter is vice chairman.
艾森现在担任该组织的委员会主席，佩恩特是副主席。
The lawsuit may run into trouble, other legal experts said, given that CREW, as the organization is known, must demonstrate that it would suffer direct and concrete injury to give it standing to sue.
其他法律专家表示，鉴于CREW必须证明自己会受到直接、具体的伤害才有资格起诉，诉讼可能会遇到困难。
The group says it has suffered harm by having to divert its resources from other work to monitor and respond to Mr. Trump’s activities. For example, the group said, it has answered hundreds of questions from news organizations.
该团体自称已经受到了伤害，因为它不得不把用于其他工作的资源拿来监测和应对特朗普的活动。比如，该团体称它已经回复了来自新闻机构的成百上千个问题。
In a 1982 decision, the Supreme Court ruled that a civil rights organization had standing to sue because its use of black “testers” to see whether landlords and home sellers were abiding by federal law had hurt its ability to conduct other activities. But in recent decades, and outside the context of civil rights violations, the court has often been skeptical of broad assertions of standing.
在1982年的一项裁决中，最高法院裁定，一个民权组织用黑人“测试者”来确定土地所有者和卖房人是否遵守联邦法律的做法，损害了它进行其他活动的能力，因此该组织具备起诉资格。但最近几十年，在违反民权法律的范畴外，最高法院对自称有起诉资格的广泛主张通常都持怀疑态度。
Regardless of the lawsuit’s fate, it is just the first hint of the legal assault that the Trump administration will face.
不管命运如何，这起诉讼只是特朗普政府将要面临的法律攻击的第一个迹象。
Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, said it was separately looking for plaintiffs to file a lawsuit alleging that Mr. Trump is violating the Emoluments Clause. It hopes to find a hotel or bed-and-breakfast that might compete against a Trump hotel as a party that might have standing to sue.
美国公民自由联盟（American Civil Liberties Union，简称ACLU）的执行主任安东尼·D·罗梅罗(Anthony D. Romero)说，该组织正在单独寻找原告提起诉讼，控告特朗普违反了薪酬条款。它希望找到一家酒店或提供住宿和早餐的旅馆，作为可能具备起诉资格的一方，同特朗普的某家酒店对阵。
The A.C.L.U. filed an extensive Freedom of Information Act request on Thursday asking the Justice Department, the General Services Administration and the Office of Government Ethics for all legal opinions and memos they have prepared addressing potential financial or ethical conflicts that Mr. Trump might face. It could perhaps use those documents in litigation against the Trump administration.
ACLU周四依据《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information Act)提出了一项牵涉广泛的请求，向司法部、总务管理局(General Services Administration)和政府道德事务办公室(Office of Government Ethics)索要它们针对特朗普可能会面临的潜在财务或道德冲突而准备的所有法律意见书和备忘录。
CREW separately filed a complaint with the General Services Administration on Friday over a provision that appears to prohibit the leasing of the Old Post Office building on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington to an elected federal official. The building is the site of Mr. Trump’s hotel.
周五当天，CREW根据一项条款单独向总务管理局提出投诉。该条款似乎禁止将华盛顿宾夕法尼亚大道上的老邮局大楼(Old Post Office)租给民选联邦官员。特朗普的一家酒店就位于那栋大楼里。
Perhaps more important, the legal groups said they may challenge executive actions Mr. Trump is expected to take on topics like international trade deals, illegal immigration and climate change.
兴许更重要的是，相关法律团体称它们可能会挑战特朗普在国际贸易协议、非法移民和气候变化等问题上预计会采取的行政行动。