“One of the mixed blessings of being 20 and 21 and even 23,” Joan Didion wrote, “is the conviction that nothing like this, all evidence to the contrary notwithstanding, has ever happened to anyone before.”
“人在20岁、21岁，甚至23岁的时候，有那么一些说是好处也不算好处的特点，”琼·迪迪翁(Joan Didion)写道，“其中一样，就是坚信自己身上发生的事情从没在别人身上发生过，哪怕一切证据都指向相反的方向。”
But of course it has. Whether we are 20 — or 2 or 91 — we feel, by and large, what billions of others have felt at that same age. Writers know this. Our great books are filled with universal observations about our every year, their desperations and delights.
但是同样的经历别人当然有过。不管我们是20岁、2岁或是91岁，我们都会和亿万人在同样的年纪时有大致相同的感受。作家们都知道这一点。最伟大的书籍中充满了对人类各种年龄阶段的普遍观察，描写了不同年龄阶段的绝望与欢乐。
All of us age more or less in step — you, me and our two presumptive nominees for president. Donald J. Trump, who turned 70 last week, would no doubt recognize himself in the words of Isaac Bashevis Singer, who wrote, “A man of 70 should know what he wants.”
我们都在以大致相同的步调渐渐变老——不论是你我，还是我们那两位几乎稳获总统提名的候选人。上周年满70岁的唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)毫无疑问会觉得艾萨克·巴什维斯·辛格(Isaac Bashevis Singer)的话适用于描述自己，“一个70岁的人应该知道自己想要什么。”
Still, not every passage can speak to every person. Hillary Clinton began her second bid for president at an age when such mountainous ambition is generally in decline. In a magazine article titled “Life at Sixty-Seven,” Theodore Dreiser wrote, “Fame, success, power, $500 million, world leadership — well, if they should arrive, I might not exactly take to cover, but as for lying awake nights craving them as in my youth I did — well, I really don’t care to any more.”
然而，并非所有警句都适用于所有人。希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)开始第二次总统竞选时，已经到了对多数人来说可以放下强烈功名之心的年纪。西奥多·德莱塞(Theodore Dreiser)在某杂志上发表过一篇文章，题为《67岁的生活》，文中写道，“名声、成功、权力、5亿美元，领导世界——好吧，如果它们掉到我头上来，我可能也不会躲，但是至于说像年轻时那样，半夜三更睡不着，渴望得到这些东西——我确实不想再那样了。”
Nonetheless, the simple fact remains that age informs who we are. That fact is as relatable to our presidents as it is to the rest of us. And as we wait to see how age might shape a Trump or Clinton presidency, here is a sampling of observations about age that speak to the experiences of our last eight presidents.
不管怎么说，我们的年龄决定着我们是谁，这个简单的事实仍是不错的。无论对于总统，还是对于我们普通人来说，都是如此。年龄将对特朗普或克林顿的总统任期造成什么样的影响，我们还要拭目以待；与此同时，不妨看看下面一些关于年龄的观察，它们可以适用于我们之前的八位总统。
Barack Obama was months shy of 46 when he announced his candidacy for president.
贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)宣布竞选总统时，还差几个月不到46岁。
"At 46 one must be a miser; only have time for essentials."
“46岁的人必须惜时如金，只花时间去做必须做的事情。”
—Virginia Woolf, “The Diary of Virginia Woolf,” March 22, 1928
——维吉尼亚·伍尔夫(Virginia Woolf)，《维吉尼亚·伍尔夫日记》(The Diary of Virginia Woolf)，1928年3月22日
Bill Clinton was 51 when news of his affair with Monica Lewinsky broke.
与莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)的丑闻曝光那年，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)51岁。
"At fifty-one you had to keep running just to escape the avalanche of your own past."
“到了51岁，你必须拼命奔跑，才能不让往事像雪崩一样把你压倒。”
—Stephen King, “Needful Things”
——史蒂芬·金(Stephen King)，《必需品》(Needful Things)
Jimmy Carter was 54 when, in a bid to put a finger on the nation’s problems, he gave his “Malaise” speech.
吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)54岁那年，为了解释国家面临的困境，做了那次主题为“困顿”的讲演。
"At fifty-four, he thinks a lot of things, he believes a few, but what can he really claim to know?"
“54岁的人思考的很多，相信的很少，但他真正能说自己知道的又是什么呢？”
—Julian Barnes, “Arthur & George”
——朱利安·巴恩斯(Julian Barnes)，《阿瑟与乔治》(Arthur & George)
George W. Bush was almost 57 when he commenced his attack on Iraq.
乔治·W·布什对伊拉克发动战争时将近57岁。
"Fifty-seven; it’s a critical age … Desire is much the same as it ever was — but satisfaction brings in its revenges."
“57岁，那是个关键的年龄……欲望还和以往任何时候一样多——但满足感也带来报应。”
—Hjalmar Söderberg, “Doctor Glas”
——雅尔玛·瑟德尔贝里(Hjalmar Söderberg)，《格拉斯医生》(Doctor Glas)
Richard Nixon was 61 when he resigned as president.
理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)辞去总统之位那年61岁。
"I might, at sixty-one years of age, have been a little inclined to stay at home."
“到了61岁，我可能有点更愿意呆在家里了。”
—Daniel Defoe, “The Further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe”
——丹尼尔·笛福(Daniel Defoe)，《鲁滨逊漂流记续集》(The Further Adventures of Robinson Crusoe)
Gerald Ford was about to turn 62 when he slipped on a staircase in Austria; from then on he was lampooned as clumsy.
杰拉德·福特(Gerald Ford)快到62岁那年，在奥地利从台阶上跌倒，从那以后就经常被嘲讽为笨手笨脚。
"He was turning sixty-two, not an age of life-altering shocks but only of subtle diminishments."
“他就快62岁了，这个年龄不会发生什么改变人生的震撼，只会慢慢走下坡路。”
—Paul Theroux, “The Lower River”
——保罗·索鲁(Paul Theroux)，《下游》(Lower River)
George H. W. Bush was 66 when he chose to upend Republican orthodoxy and raise taxes.
乔治·H ·W·布什66岁那年，决定颠覆共和党传统，增加了税额。
"At sixty-six I am more rebellious than I was at 16. Now I know the whole structure must topple, must be razed."
“66岁时，我变得比16岁那年更叛逆。现在我知道，整个体制必须被颠覆、被踏平。”
—Henry Miller, “Art and Outrage”
——亨利·米勒(Henry Miller)，《艺术与愤怒》(Art and Outrage)
Ronald Reagan was 70 when he survived an assassination attempt.
罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)70岁那年逃过了暗杀。
"You must take living so seriously
“你必须严肃对待生活
That even at seventy, for example, you’ll plant olive trees —
比方说，就算到了70岁，还是要种橄榄树
And not for your children, either,
而且不是为了你的子女
But because although you fear death you don’t believe it,
而是因为，尽管你害怕死亡，你却不相信它
Because living, I mean, weighs heavier."
因为，比起死亡，生活有它更重的分量。”
—Nazım Hikmet, “On Living”
——纳奇姆·希克梅特(Nazım Hikmet)，《关于生活》(On Living)