White House officials announced the start of a nationwide campaign on Thursday to encourage legal immigrants to become American citizens, which could add millions of voters to the electorate in time for the presidential election next year.
白宫官员周四宣布开启一项全国性的宣传活动，以鼓励合法移民成为美国公民。此举或可为明年的总统选举及时增添数百万选民。
With about 8.8 million legal residents in the country who are eligible to become citizens, White House officials said they were trying to make it easier to complete the final steps to citizenship.
美国目前大约有880万合法居民符合入籍条件。白宫官员表示，准备尽力让他们更容易完成入籍的最后几个步骤。
The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal agency in charge of naturalizations, will offer practice tests on cellphones for the civics exam that immigrants must pass, but which many find daunting, and will hold preparatory workshops in rural areas. Applicants will also be able to pay the fee, still a hefty $680, with a credit card.
负责归化事宜的联邦部门美国公民及移民服务局(United States Citizenship and Immigration Services)将提供可在手机上进行的公民测验练习，并在多个乡村地区开设备考学习班。移民入籍前必须通过这一测验，但它令许多人望而却步。申请者还必须用信用卡支付高达680美元（约合4300元人民币）的申请费。
The White House is working with regional immigrant groups to organize more than 70 citizenship workshops and about 200 naturalization ceremonies in the coming week alone. Four citizenship ambassadors have been named, including Fernando Valenzuela, the Mexican-born former pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers who recently became an American citizen after many years in the United States.
白宫将与地方移民组织合作，单是在接下来的一周，就会组织逾70个入籍学习班，并进行200场左右的入籍仪式。白宫任命了四名入籍大使，其中包括曾在洛杉矶道奇队任投手的费尔南多·巴伦苏埃拉(Fernando Valenzuela)。他在墨西哥出生，在美国生活多年后于近日成为美国公民。
Also in the works are local initiatives to make immigrants feel more welcome, and a revision of Justice Department regulations that would make it easier for people who want to help immigrants naturalize to obtain credentials to provide basic volunteer legal assistance.
同时进行的还有让移民更感觉到自己受到欢迎的一些地方项目。此外，司法部还将修改监管规定，让希望帮助移民入籍的人更容易获得提供志愿性基本法律援助的资质。
The officials said they had started the campaign this week because Thursday is Citizenship Day. But the White House is also aware of federal figures showing that about 60 percent of immigrants eligible to naturalize are Latino and about 20 percent are Asian, both groups that voted overwhelmingly for President Obama. Nearly a third of legal permanent residents eligible to naturalize are Mexican.
白宫官员称，之所以本周开始这项活动，是因为周四是公民日。不过，白宫也明白，联邦数据显示，符合入籍条件的移民当中，有60%左右为拉丁裔，还有20%左右为亚裔，而这两个群体绝大部分给奥巴马总统投了票。近三分之一符合入籍条件的合法永久居民是墨西哥裔。
The campaign, which includes a blitz of television ads with a welcoming message for immigrants, gives Mr. Obama a chance to set up a contrast with Republicans vying to succeed him. In the Republican debate on Wednesday night, Donald J. Trump, the real estate magnate who has been leading the polls among the Republican candidates, returned to his hard-line proposals that include building a wall along the length of the southern border.
活动将包含一轮密集的电视广告，传达欢迎移民的讯息。这次活动给了奥巴马一个机会，让他可以和那些争夺下任总统职位的共和党人形成对比。在周三晚间的共和党辩论中，在该党候选人民调中领先的地产大亨唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)重提自己的强硬倡议，其中包括沿着整条南方边境线修建高墙。
“We have a lot of really bad dudes in this country from outside,” Mr. Trump said, claiming that undocumented immigrants include many gang members and drug dealers. “First day, they’re going,” he said, referring to Baltimore and Chicago as places where deportations of criminals would begin.
“我们国家有很多从外面来的大坏蛋，”特朗普说，并且宣称无证件移民中包含众多的犯罪团伙成员和毒贩。“第一天，他们就得走。”他将巴尔的摩和芝加哥列为自己准备开启驱逐罪犯出境行动的地方。
Mr. Trump said he would deport all 11 million undocumented immigrants, then selectively allow some to return. Ben Carson, the pediatric surgeon in the Republican race who has seen a recent rise in the polls, also said he would consider mass deportation of all immigrants in the country illegally.
特朗普表示，他会把1100万无证件移民悉数驱逐出境，然后选择性地允许一部分人返回。在民调中近期呈上升趋势的共和党候选人、小儿外科医生本·卡森(Ben Carson)也称，他会考虑大规模驱逐所有非法待在美国境内的移民。
“If anybody knows how to do that, I would be willing to listen,” Mr. Carson said. “I think it’s worth discussing.”
“如果有人知道怎么做到这一点，我洗耳恭听，”卡森说。“我认为这件事值得讨论。”
The debate also highlighted the divide among Republicans themselves, with former Gov. Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio, both of Florida, arguing against mass roundups and in favor of some path to legal status.
本次辩论还突显了共和党人内部的矛盾。来自佛罗里达州的前州长杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)和现任联邦参议员马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)反对大规模打击无证件移民，主张提供某种让他们获得合法身份的途径。
Some Republicans said they were concerned about political overtones in the campaign.
一些共和党人表示，他们对本次入籍宣传活动的政治色彩有所担忧。
“I think it’s healthy for a democracy for people to become citizens,” said Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles. “Sadly, I think the administration went overboard. A full-fledged campaign from the White House telling people to become a citizen, I think it is politicizing the naturalization process.” Mr. Aguilar, a Republican, was head of the citizenship office at the immigration agency for six years under the administration of President George W. Bush. He urged Congress to keep an eye on the campaign to make sure it did not go beyond civics education.
“我认为，对民主国家来说，让民众入籍是有益的，”保守派原则拉丁裔合作组织(Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles)执行总监阿方索·阿圭勒(Alfonso Aguilar)说。“不幸的是，我觉得奥巴马政府对这件事过于热衷了。白宫大张旗鼓地进行宣传，让大家去成为公民，我认为这是在将归化过程政治化。”阿圭勒是共和党人，曾在前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)治下的美国公民及移民服务局担任公民身份办公室的负责人。他敦促国会关注此次活动，确保不会触及公民教育之外的内容。
Mr. Obama’s citizenship campaign is part of a package of executive actions first announced in November. The most ambitious of them, a plan to provide protection from deportation and work permits to about five million undocumented immigrants, was challenged in a lawsuit by 26 states and has been blocked in the courts.
奥巴马的此次入籍宣传活动是去年11月公布的一系列行政措施的组成部分。这些措施中，最大胆的部分是计划向大约500万无证件移民提供免于驱逐的保护和工作许可。这一计划遭到26个州的联合诉讼，被法院下了禁令。
For now, White House officials have turned to the citizenship drive, which offers nothing for immigrants without legal status. To be eligible for naturalization, immigrants must have been legal permanent residents for at least three years and, in most cases, five years. The officials insisted the effort was nonpartisan.
目前的情况是，白宫官员转而进行敦促入籍的活动，不会给没有合法身份的移民提供任何便利。要想符合归化条件，移民成为合法永久居民的时间至少得有三年，多数情况下需要有五年。白宫官员坚称这项活动不带有党派色彩。
Many groups collaborating with the campaign on training workshops are advocates who seek citizenship for undocumented immigrants as well, and who have been alarmed by the tough tone of the Republican campaign.
与此次活动合作开设学习班的团体中，有不少同时倡导让无证件移民获得公民身份。共和党竞选中的强硬论调令它们颇为担忧。
“We want to build off the negative energy,” said Tara Raghuveer, policy and advocacy director for the National Partnership for New Americans, a coalition of immigrant groups that is holding dozens of events during the campaign. “People are hearing the hate and racist xenophobia on the national stage from the presidential candidates. They are angry, and this is an opportunity for us to organize.”
“我们希望抵御负面能量，”新美国人全国合作组织(National Partnership for New Americans)的政策与倡导总监塔拉·拉古维(Tara Raghuveer)说。该组织是一个移民团体联盟，计划在此次宣传行动中举办数十场活动。“人们在全国性的舞台上听到总统候选人发出仇恨的种族歧视排外言论。他们对此很愤怒，而这是一个让我们组织起来的机会。”