MEXICO CITY — The United States and Cuba have ended their third round of talks on re-establishing diplomatic relations as abruptly as the meeting was announced, with no breakthrough on sticking points and in an atmosphere of rising tension over Venezuela.
墨西哥城——美国和古巴结束了为重新建立外交关系而举行的第三轮谈判，和宣布举行会谈时一样突然。在委内瑞拉问题导致紧张局势日渐升级的氛围下，谈判并未在难点问题上取得突破。
A small group of American officials led by Roberta Jacobson, the top United States diplomat for Latin America, arrived in Havana on Sunday and met with Cuban counterparts on Monday. The talks ended without any public comment and despite earlier remarks by senior officials at the State Department who had contemplated an open-ended meeting that could last to midweek.
在美国负责拉美事务的最高外交官罗伯塔·雅各布森(Roberta Jacobson)的带领下，一小群美国官员于周日抵达哈瓦那，并在周一与古巴的对等官员举行了会谈。会谈结束后，双方未发表任何公开评论，尽管国务院的高官早前曾表示，以为这场开放式的会谈可能会持续到周三。
The Cuban Foreign Ministry released a short statement Tuesday acknowledging the meeting and saying that it had been conducted in a “professional atmosphere.” Talks would continue in the future, it said.
古巴外交部周二发表了一则简短声明，承认举行了会谈，并表示会谈是在“专业氛围下”进行的。声明称，谈判将来可能会继续进行。
Jen Psaki, the State Department spokeswoman, made similar comments in Washington, saying that the discussions had been “positive and constructive” and that progress had been made, but she declined to say on what.
国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)在华盛顿做出了类似的表述，称相关讨论是“积极和有建设性的”，并且已经取得了进展，但她拒绝透露是哪方面的进展。
Both sides have been working toward an agreement, anticipating setting a date for reopening embassies before heads of state from the hemisphere gather in Panama April 10-11 for the Summit of the Americas, which both President Obama and President Raúl Castro plan to attend.
双方一直在为达成一项协议而努力，希望在西半球国家元首于4月10日至11日齐聚巴拿马，参加美洲国家首脑会议(Summit of the Americas)之前，确定重新开设大使馆的日期。奥巴马总统和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)均计划出席该峰会。
Although Mr. Obama has said he hopes the embassies will be established before the summit meeting, Ms. Psaki seemed to back away from that expectation, saying, “I don’t think we set a timeline or a deadline.”
尽管奥巴马曾表示，希望在峰会召开之前设立大使馆，但普萨基似乎放弃了这个愿望。她表示，“我觉得我们还没设置时间表或最后期限。”
She added, “You obviously have to make progress on these specific issues and get agreement on what needs to be done. Obviously, we’ll continue to work on that.”
她接着表示，“显然必须在这些具体问题上取得进展，在需要做什么上达成一致意见。显然，我们会继续在这个方面努力。”
The Cuban statement on Tuesday came as Mr. Castro arrived in Caracas, Venezuela’s capital, for a meeting of left-leaning nations to show solidarity with President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela. Mr. Maduro has rallied patriotic sentiments in Venezuela after the United States called his country an “extraordinary threat” to national security and imposed new sanctions on several military and law enforcement officials it has accused of violating human rights and democratic due process.
古巴周二发表声明之际，卡斯特罗正好抵达委内瑞拉首都加拉加斯，参加左倾国家的一次会议，以示与委内瑞拉总统尼古拉斯·马杜罗(Nicolás Maduro)团结一致。美国称委内瑞拉是对美国国家安全的“严重威胁”，并对该国几名军方和执法官员实施了新制裁。美国指控他们侵犯人权、破坏民主程序。在那以后，马杜罗在委内瑞拉国内凝聚起了爱国主义情绪。
In Cuba, previous rounds of the United States-Cuba talks attracted much attention, but the news media paid scant notice this time and focused on Mr. Castro’s visit to Venezuela, Cuba’s prime economic benefactor and an ally in socialism. They also reported on a letter of support to Mr. Maduro from Fidel Castro denouncing “threats and impositions.”
在古巴，与美国举行的前几轮谈判备受关注。但这一次却鲜有报道，新闻媒体把注意力放在了卡斯特罗访问委内瑞拉上。委内瑞拉是古巴在经济上的主要支持者，也是它在社会主义阵营里的盟友。媒体还报道，菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)给马杜罗写了一封信。那是一封表示支持的信，信中谴责了“威胁和强加的要求”。
Even before the meeting, State Department officials, who announced the meeting on Friday, had sought to play down expectations, saying it would be a roll-up-the-sleeves working session and would probably not include news media appearances.
甚至在会谈前，国务院的官员就曾试图淡化预期，称这将是一次务实的工作会议，可能不包括在新闻媒体前亮相。国务院的官员是在周五宣布将举行会谈的。
The main hurdle for Cuba is its continued presence on the State Department’s list of nations said to support international terrorism. When Mr. Obama announced in December that the United States and Cuba would seek to restore normal relations, he suggested that it did not belong on the list and ordered a review. Cuba has also complained about its inability to find a bank for its diplomatic missions in the United States, in part because of the terrorism designation, which was made in 1982.
古巴面临的主要障碍是，它仍然列在被国务院认定支持国际恐怖主义的国家名单上。去年12月，宣布美国和古巴将寻求恢复正常关系时，奥巴马表示，古巴不应该在那份名单上，还下令重新审核该名单。古巴还抱怨，驻美国的外交使团找不到银行进行结算，这在一定程度上是因为，古巴在1982年被认定支持恐怖主义。
Most analysts view the removal of Cuba from the list as an easy call — it long ago renounced support for insurgencies — but the delay in any decision is causing speculation that the administration has not found a way to do it that would withstand a potential challenge from the Republican-controlled Congress.
大部分分析人士认为，将古巴从该名单上去掉是轻而易举的事情——很久以前，古巴就宣布不再支持叛乱了。但是任何决定发生延迟，都会让人产生怀疑：奥巴马政府还没有想出一种方法，来抵挡由共和党控制的国会可能发起的挑战。
Even if Mr. Obama were to authorize the removal of Cuba from the list, it would not come off it until after a 45-day grace period during which a joint resolution of the House and Senate could stymie the process. Taking that window into consideration, Cuba would not be off the list before the summit meeting, though the administration’s position could be known.
即使奥巴马下令在该名单上去掉古巴，也需要在经过45天的宽限期后，才会从名单上删除。在此期间，参议院和众议院的联合决议可能会阻碍这一程序。考虑到这个时间段，古巴不会在峰会开始前从该名单上消失，不过奥巴马政府可以明确表达立场。
This month, Spain asked the United States to help it get Cuba to extradite two members of a Basque separatist group living there who have been wanted since 2010. Although a State Department report in 2013 noted the repatriation of several members of the Basque group to Spain, Cuba’s decision to allow some members of the group to stay on the island has been used in part to justify the terrorism-list designation.
本月，西班牙请美国帮忙，让古巴引渡某巴斯克分裂组织的两名成员。从2010年开始，西班牙就一直在通缉现居于古巴的那两人。尽管国务院在2013年的一份报告提到，古巴将该组织的几名成员遣返回了西班牙，但古巴允许该组织的一些成员留在岛上的决定，在一定程度上被人用来证明，古巴理应被列在支持恐怖主义的国家名单上。
The United States representatives at the talks have emphasized the administration’s desire to increase the number of diplomats allowed in Cuba and for them to have unrestricted travel around the island.
美方谈判代表强调，奥巴马政府希望增加获准驻古巴的外交官人数，并希望他们能在岛上自由出行。