The Common Core, a set of standards for kindergarten through high school that has been ardently supported by the Obama administration and many business leaders and state legislatures, is facing growing opposition from both the right and the left even before it has been properly introduced into classrooms.
“共同核心”(Common Core)是一套适用于从幼儿园到高中的教学标准，得到了奥巴马政府、众多商界领袖和州级立法机构的强烈支持。不过，尚未被恰当地引入教学之中，它就面临着越来越多来自左右两翼的反对。
Tea Party conservatives, who reject the standards as an unwelcome edict from above, have called for them to be severely rolled back.
茶党(Tea Party)保守派以“共同核心”是不受欢迎的上级指令为由拒绝予以接受，并已呼吁将其大幅削弱。
Indiana has already put a brake on them. The Michigan House of Representatives is holding hearings on whether to suspend them. And citing the cost of new tests requiring more writing and a significant online component, Georgia and Oklahoma have withdrawn from a consortium developing exams based on the standards.
印第安纳州已然踩了刹车。密歇根州众议会将举行听证会，以决定是否将其搁置。乔治亚州和俄克拉何马州认为，新考试对写作要求更高，还包括很大一部分在线内容，于是它们双双以考试成本问题为由，退出了以这套标准为基础设计考试的联盟。
At the same time, a group of parents and teachers argues that the standards — and particularly the tests aligned with them — are simply too difficult.
与此同时，一群家长和教师主张，该标准实在是太难了，尤其是与之配套的考试。
Those concerns were underscored last week when New York State, an early adopter of the new standards, released results from reading and math exams showing that less than a third of students passed.
率先采用新标准的纽约州上周公布了阅读和数学考试成绩，结果显示，不到三分之一的学生及格。这样的结果突出了上述的担忧。
“I am worried that the Common Core is in jeopardy because of this,” said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers. “The shock value that has happened has been so traumatic in New York that you have a lot of people all throughout the state saying, ‘Why are you experimenting on my kids?’ ”
美国教师联盟(American Federation of Teachers)主席兰迪·温加滕(Randi Weingarten)说，“我担心‘共同核心’因此而前景黯淡。纽约州带来的震撼实在是太痛苦了，州里上上下下都有人发出疑问，‘你们为什么要拿我的孩子做实验？’”
Supporters worry that opposition could start to snowball as states face new exams in 2014-15.
支持者担心，随着各州迎来2014到2015学年的新考试，反对意见可能会滚雪球般地越来越大。
“The danger here is that you have two kinds of problems going on,” said Kati Haycock, president of the Education Trust, a nonprofit group that works to close achievement gaps. “One is a Tea Party problem, which doesn’t have deep roots but does have lots of political muscle behind it, and then you’ve got a bit of anti-test rebellion coming from the left. The question is what’s going to happen if they both get together. That’s the more terrifying prospect.”
非营利机构教育信托(Education Trust)致力于减少学习成绩差距，会长凯蒂·海科克(Kati Haycock)说，“危险之处在于，同时存在两种问题。一方面是茶党带来的问题，这个问题根基不深，但是背后的确有不少政治势力；另一方面是少许来自左翼的反考试运动。问题是，如果两方联合起来会怎样？这种前景更加可怕。”
The standards, which were written by a panel of experts convened by governors and state superintendents, focus on critical thinking and analysis rather than memorization and formulas.
这套教学标准由各州州长和州级学监召集的一个专家组起草，其核心是批判性思维和分析能力，而非记忆和公式。
The idea is to help ensure that students generally learn the same things in public schools across the country.
它背后的理念是，确保全国公立学校的学生学习基本相同的内容。
One goal is to reduce high remediation rates at colleges and universities and help students compete for jobs that demand higher levels of skills than in previous generations.
其中一个目标是，降低高等院校极高的学前补课率，并帮助学生掌握比过去几代人更高的技能，从而能够在找工作时具备竞争力。
Secretary of Education Arne Duncan has repeatedly emphasized that states, districts and teachers have broad flexibility to devise their own curriculums and lesson plans based on the standards.
教育部长阿恩·邓肯(Arne Duncan)反复强调，各州、学区和教师有很大的自由度来基于该标准设计各自的课程及教学计划。
Speaking about the Common Core to the American Society of News Editors in June, Mr. Duncan said: “The federal government didn’t write them, didn’t approve them, and doesn’t mandate them. And we never will. Anyone who says otherwise is either misinformed or willfully misleading.”
今年6月，邓肯在美国新闻编辑学会(American Society of News Editors)发表关于“共同核心”的演讲时称：“起草并批准的不是联邦政府，我们也不会强制推行，永远都不会。任何这么声称的人，不是了解不充分，就是故意曲解。”
Last year Kentucky became the first state to give new math and reading tests based on the Common Core, and as in New York, the levels of students deemed proficient fell sharply compared with a year earlier.
去年，肯塔基州第一个尝鲜，采用“共同核心”标准进行了新的数学与阅读考试。与纽约州一样，取得优良成绩的学生比例与上年相比大幅下滑。
Such results have spooked teachers watching from afar, particularly as more states are moving to evaluate teachers in part on student test scores.
这样的结果吓坏了作壁上观的教师们，尤其是有更多的州正准备在评估教师的时候参考学生的考试分数。
“Looking at the types of questions on these tests, I’m scared for my kids,” said Lisa Mims, a fifth-grade teacher at Pleasantville Elementary School in New Castle, Del. “It just seems to me that it’s what they’re asking us to do in such a little bit of time, and then saying we’re going to test this.”
莉萨·米姆斯(Lisa Mims)在特拉华州纽卡斯尔的普莱森特维尔小学(Pleasantville Elementary School)教五年级，她说，“看到这些考试上面的题目类型，我为孩子们吓了一跳。在我看来，这是他们要求我们在特别短的时间内做一件事，然后马上说我们来考试吧。”
In an interview, Mr. Duncan acknowledged that the transition would be difficult. “It’s easier to keep saying everything’s looking great,” he said. “Potemkin village, whitewash the walls. That’s the easy way to do it, but I’m not quite sure that changes kids’ lives or helps our country remain competitive economically.”
邓肯接受采访时承认，其中的过渡会很艰难。“继续说一切都没问题的话，要更容易一些，”他说。“自欺欺人、文过饰非，看似在走捷径，但我可不认为这样能改变孩子们的人生，或是帮助我们的国家在经济上保持竞争力。”
According to a report from the Center on Education Policy at George Washington University, teachers in 30 states are already teaching some lessons based on the standards. But only 10 states reported that more than three-quarters of teachers had received any Common Core training in the most recent school year.
根据乔治·华盛顿大学教育政策中心(Center on Education Policy at George Washington University)所做的报告，已有30个州的教师在按照“共同核心”标准教授部分课程。不过，仅有10个州表示，超过四分之三的教师在刚刚过去的学年里接受过该标准的培训。
Supporters of the new standards say critics are too impatient.
新标准的支持者认为，批评人士缺乏耐心。
“It’s going to take time, and it’s going to take a lot of work,” said David Driscoll, former commissioner of education in Massachusetts, which raised its own standards in the late 1990s and faced a falloff in state test scores before seeing them steadily climb. 
曾任马萨诸塞州教育专员的戴维·德里斯科尔(David Driscoll)说，“要花费一定的时间，还要做出很多的努力。”该州曾于上世纪90年代末提高过教学标准，学生在州级考试中的成绩随即下滑，后又稳步攀升。
Some critics say the new standards are simply unrealistic. “We’re using a very inappropriate standard that’s way too high,” said Diane Ravitch, an education historian who served in President George W. Bush’s Education Department but has since become an outspoken critic of many education initiatives. “I think there are a lot of kids who are being told that if they don’t go to college that it will ruin their life,” she said. “But maybe they don’t need to go to college.”
一些批评人士认为，新标准实在是不切实际。“我们要采用的标准太高了，极其不合适，”教育史学者黛安·拉维奇(Diane Ravitch)说。她曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的教育部任职，不过之后对许多教育计划进行了直言不讳的批评。她说，“我觉得，有很多小孩被灌输，如果不去上大学，一辈子就毁了。但是，也许他们并不需要去上大学。”
By contrast, Kristal Doolin, a middle school English teacher in Corbin, Ky., a rural area in the southeast corner of the state, said teachers should expect more of their students.
相比之下，肯塔基州科尔宾的中学英语教师克里斯塔尔·杜林(Kristal Doolin)则认为，教师应当对学生提高要求。科尔宾位于该州的东南角，属于农业区。
“I feel like if we lower our expectations, they will follow what we model,” said Ms. Doolin, who was selected Kentucky Teacher of the Year for 2013. “If you teach the way we’ve taught for years and years, basically we’re robbing our kids of the future.”
杜林当选了2013年肯塔基州年度教师，她说，“我觉得，如果我们降低期望值，他们就会按照我们的要求来。如果按照多年来的老方法来教学，那么，我们就是在剥夺孩子们的未来。”