WASHINGTON — American forces took advantage of the airstrikes against the Islamic State extremist group in Syria to try to simultaneously wipe out the leadership of an unrelated cell of veterans of Al Qaeda, who were said to be plotting an imminent attack against the United States or Europe, officials said Tuesday.
华盛顿——官员们周二表示，美国军队试图利用对伊斯兰国(Islamic State)极端组织发动空袭的机会，铲除一个与之无关的组织的领导层。该组织由基地组织(Al Qaeda)老兵组成，据称，他们正计划在近期对美国或欧洲发动一场袭击。
The barrage of bombs and missiles launched into Syria early Tuesday was aimed primarily at crippling the Islamic State, the formidable Sunni organization that has seized a large piece of territory to form its own radical enclave. But the blitz also targeted a little-known network called Khorasan, in hopes of decapitating it before it could carry out what American officials feared would be a terrorist bombing in the West.
周二早些时候射进叙利亚境内的猛烈炮火和导弹主要是为了打击伊斯兰国。伊斯兰国是一个强大的逊尼派组织，它占据了大片土地，建立了一块激进分子自己的领地。但是，这场突袭的目标还包括一个叫做呼罗珊(Khorasan)的鲜为人知的网络。美国官员担忧该组织在西方实施恐怖爆炸，希望在其行动之前将其剿灭。
American military and intelligence analysts were still studying damage reports from the initial air assault, but senior Obama administration officials expressed hope that they had killed Muhsin al-Fadhli, the leader of Khorasan and a onetime confidant of Osama bin Laden. The officials said they had been contemplating military action against Khorasan in recent months, but President Obama’s decision to hit the Islamic State’s forces inside Syria provided a chance to neutralize the other perceived threat.
美国军事和情报分析人员仍然在研究关于最初的空袭的损坏报告，但奥巴马政府的高级官员表示，他们希望呼罗珊的领导人穆赫辛·法德赫里(Muhsin al-Fadhli)已经死于空袭。法德赫里是奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)曾经的亲信。这些官员称，最近几个月，他们一直在考虑对呼罗珊采取军事行动，但是奥巴马总统在叙利亚境内打击伊斯兰国武装势力的决定，为他们提供了一个机会，消灭其他感受到的威胁。
Several officials said Khorasan had an advanced plan for an attack involving a bomb that could pass undetected through airport security systems, perhaps by lacing nonmetallic objects like toothpaste tubes and clothes with explosive material. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said the concerns about Khorasan were behind a decision last summer to ban uncharged laptop computers and cellphones from some United States-bound commercial airliners.
几名官员称，呼罗珊有一套先进的袭击计划，包括一种能通过机场安检的炸弹——他们或许会在牙膏管和衣服等非金属物体中添加爆炸材料。司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H.Holder Jr.)说，去年夏天决定在部分飞往美国的商业航班上禁止携带未充电的笔记本电脑和手机，就是出于对呼罗珊的担忧。
The air campaign against Khorasan and the Islamic State got underway even as Mr. Obama flew to New York to meet with world leaders gathering for the opening session of the United Nations General Assembly. Mr. Obama did not seek United Nations permission for the military campaign, but he presented the strikes as the collaboration of a multinational coalition that included five Arab nations: Saudi Arabia, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Bahrain.
在针对呼罗珊和伊斯兰国的空袭展开之时，奥巴马正飞往纽约，会见参加联合国大会开幕式的各国领导人。对于此次军事行动，奥巴马并未征求联合国的同意，但他却使这些袭击行动看起来像是一场有各国参与的联合行动——共有五个阿拉伯国家参与其中：沙特阿拉伯、约旦、阿联酋、卡塔尔和巴林。
“Because of the almost unprecedented effort of this coalition, I think we now have an opportunity to send a very clear message that the world is united,” Mr. Obama said during a hastily arranged photo opportunity in New York with Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq, King Abdullah II of Jordan and representatives of the other Arab allies.
“由于这个联盟采取了几乎前所未见的行动，我认为我们现在有机会发出一条非常明确的信息：世界团结起来了，”奥巴马在纽约一次仓促安排的媒体拍照环节中说。参加活动的有伊拉克总理海德尔·阿巴迪(Haider al-Abadi)、约旦国王阿卜杜拉二世(King Abdullah II)，以及其他阿拉伯盟友的代表。
Still, the bulk of the military efforts were conducted by American forces, and reaction in the Middle East was mixed. President Hassan Rouhani of Iran, which is allied with the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, said the airstrikes were illegal because they were not conducted with the approval of Syria’s government, a point later echoed by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, another ally of Syria’s.
然而，主要的军事行动仍然由美国军队实施，中东地区的反应也各不相同。伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)说这些空袭是非法的，因为它们没有得到叙利亚政府的批准。伊朗与叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府是盟友。叙利亚的另一个盟友，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)随后也附和了这个观点。
In his public appearances on Tuesday, Mr. Obama cautioned again that the campaign against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, would take time. He also cited the strike on Khorasan, the first time he has mentioned the group in public. “Once again, it must be clear to anyone who would plot against America and try to do Americans harm that we will not tolerate safe havens for terrorists who threaten our people,” he said at the White House before his departure for New York.
周二公开露面时，奥巴马再次警告，针对伊斯兰国的行动需要时间，该组织又称ISIS或ISIL。他还提到了对呼罗珊的打击，这是他首次谈到该组织。在动身前往纽约之前，奥巴马在白宫表示，“我重申，任何密谋针对美国，并试图伤害美国民众的人都必须明白，我们不会容许对我们的人民构成威胁的恐怖分子享有避风港。”
Most officials speaking publicly on Tuesday characterized the Khorasan threat as imminent. Lt. Gen. William C. Mayville Jr., who is in charge of operations for the Pentagon’s Joint Staff, said the terrorist group was nearing “the execution phase of an attack either in Europe or the homeland.”
在周二公开发言的大部分官员均认为呼罗珊威胁迫在眉睫。负责五角大楼联合参谋部(Joint Staff)作战行动的小威廉·C·梅维尔中将(William C. Mayville Jr.)称，该恐怖组织已经临近“在欧洲或美国发动袭击的执行阶段了”。
But one senior counterterrorism official, who insisted on anonymity to discuss intelligence matters, said the group might not have chosen the target, method or even the timing for a strike. An intelligence official said separately that the group was “reaching a stage where they might be able to do something.”
但一名高级反恐官员表示，该组织或许还没有选定袭击的目标、方式甚至时机。因为在讨论情报事务，所以该名官员坚持要求匿名。另有一名情报官员表示，该组织即将“进入或许有能力做点什么的阶段”。
Khorasan is closely allied with the Nusra Front, which is Al Qaeda’s designated affiliate in Syria, according to American intelligence officials. The group, they said, is made up of Qaeda operatives from places like Pakistan, Afghanistan, North Africa and Chechnya who have traveled to Syria on the orders of Ayman al-Zawahri, the Qaeda leader.
美国情报官员称，呼罗珊是基地组织在叙利亚指定的分支努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)的亲密盟友。他们表示，该组织是由来自巴基斯坦、阿富汗、北非和车臣等地的基地组织战斗人员组成的，这些人奉基地组织头目艾曼·扎瓦赫里(Ayman al-Zawahri)之命，进入叙利亚。
Mr. Holder told Katie Couric of Yahoo News that the United States has followed the group for two years. “I can say that the enhanced security measures that we took” banning uncharged electronic devices on some flights were “based on concerns we had about what the Khorasan group was planning to do,” he said.
霍尔德告诉雅虎新闻(Yahoo News)的凯蒂·库里克(Katie Couric)，美国已经关注该组织两年了。他说，“我可以说，我们加强安全措施”，在部分航班上禁止携带未充电的电子设备，原因就是“我们对呼罗珊组织计划采取的行动心存担忧”。
Congressional leaders largely rallied behind the strikes, including Republicans who oppose the president on most other issues, although some of them still faulted his strategy and many disagreed on whether he needed approval by lawmakers. The administration contends he does not need new action by Congress because of the authorization it passed targeting Al Qaeda and affiliates after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
国会领导人基本都支持相关袭击，包括在其他大部分问题上反对总统的共和党人。不过部分共和党人仍在指责奥巴马的战略，对于总统是否需要得到议员们的批准，许多人也意见不一。奥巴马政府称，因为国会已在2001年9月11日的袭击过后，通过了以基地组织及其分支为攻击目标的授权，所以总统不需要国会采取新的动作。