BEIRUT, Lebanon — American support for a pair of diplomatic initiatives in Syria underscores the shifting views of how to end the civil war there and the West’s quiet retreat from its demand that the country’s president, Bashar al-Assad, step down immediately.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——美国支持了两项有关叙利亚的外交方案，此举突显出，美国对如何结束叙利亚内战的看法正发生转变，西方也不动声色地放弃了让叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)立即下台的要求。
The Obama administration maintains that a lasting political solution requires Mr. Assad’s exit. But facing military stalemate, well-armed jihadists and the world’s worst humanitarian crisis, the United States is going along with international diplomatic efforts that could lead to more gradual change in Syria.
奥巴马政府坚持认为，达成持久政治解决方案的前提条件是阿萨德下台。但面对军事僵局、装备充足的圣战分子，以及世界上最严重的人道主义危机，美国正在顺应可能在叙利亚促成渐进式转变的国际外交行动。
That shift comes along with other American actions that Mr. Assad’s supporters and opponents take as proof Washington now believes that if Mr. Assad is ousted, there will be nothing to check the spreading chaos and extremism. American warplanes now bomb the Islamic State group’s militants inside Syria, sharing skies with Syrian jets. American officials assure Mr. Assad, through Iraqi intermediaries, that Syria’s military is not their target. The United States still trains and equips Syrian insurgents, but now mainly to fight the Islamic State, not the government.
发生这一转变的同时，阿萨德的支持者和反对者还认为，美国采取的其他一些行动也可以证明，华盛顿现在相信，如果阿萨德被赶下台，就不会有人来遏制不断蔓延的混乱局面和极端主义。美国战机正在轰炸叙利亚境内的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子，与叙利亚的飞机互不干扰。美国官员通过伊拉克的斡旋让阿萨德相信，叙利亚军方不是他们的目标。美国仍在为叙利亚的反政府武装提供培训和装备，但现在主要是为了打击伊斯兰国，而不是叙利亚政府。
Now, the United States and other Western countries have publicly welcomed initiatives — one from the United Nations and one from Russia — that postpone any revival of the United States-backed Geneva framework, which called for a wholesale transfer of power to a “transitional governing body.” The last Geneva talks failed a year ago amid vehement disagreement over whether that body could include Mr. Assad.
如今，美国和其他西方国家，对两个分别来自联合国(United Nations)和俄罗斯的方案公开表达了欢迎，方案建议推迟重启美国支持的日内瓦框架。日内瓦框架呼吁将权力全部转移给一个“过渡性治理机构”。上一次的日内瓦谈判于一年前破裂，各方就该机构是否可以包括阿萨德爆发了激烈分歧。
One of the new concepts is a United Nations proposal to “freeze” the fighting on the ground, first in the strategic crossroads city of Aleppo. The other is an initiative from Russia, Mr. Assad’s most powerful supporter, to try to spur talks between the warring sides in Moscow in late January. Diplomats and others briefed on the plans say one Russian vision is of power-sharing between Mr. Assad’s government and some opposition figures, and perhaps parliamentary elections that would precede any change in the presidency.
最新方案包括联合国“冻结”地面战斗的提议，建议首先在战略要地阿勒颇实行。此外，阿萨德最强大的支持者俄罗斯也提出了一个方案，希望促成交战各方1月底在莫斯科举行谈判。听取了这些方案的外交人员和其他人士表示，俄罗斯的一个想法是，让阿萨德政府和一些反对派人物分享权力，但如果更换总统的话，可能需要先举行议会选举。
But the diplomatic proposals face serious challenges, relying on the leader of a rump state who is propped up by foreign powers and hemmed in by a growing and effective extremist force that wants to build a caliphate. Many of America’s allies in the Syrian opposition reject the plans, and there is little indication that Mr. Assad or his main allies, Russia and Iran, feel any need to compromise. The American-backed Free Syrian Army is on the ropes in northern Syria, once its stronghold, and insurgents disagree among themselves over military and political strategy.
但这些外交提议面临着严峻的挑战，因为它们都要依赖仅剩半壁江山的现领导人，而这位领导人一方面需要外国势力的支撑，另一方面又受到极端主义势力的困扰。富有成效且不断壮大的极端势力希望建立一个哈里发国。叙利亚反对派中的许多美国盟友不接受这些方案，此外也没有迹象显示，阿萨德及其主要盟友俄罗斯和伊朗，认为需要做出妥协。美国支持的叙利亚自由军(Free Syrian Army)在曾经的大本营叙利亚北部濒临失败，而反对派内部在军事和政治策略上也存在分歧。
And perhaps most of all, the Islamic State controls half of Syria’s territory, though mostly desert, and it has managed to strengthen its grip even as the United States and its allies try to oust it from neighboring Iraq.
或许最重要的是，伊斯兰国控制着叙利亚一半的领土，不过主要是沙漠。此外，尽管美国及其盟友正努力把该组织从邻国伊拉克驱逐出去，但它还是巩固了自己的势力。
Still, Secretary of State John Kerry declared last week that the United States welcomed both initiatives. He made no call for Mr. Assad’s resignation, a notable omission from Mr. Kerry, who has typically insisted on it in public remarks. Instead, he spoke of Mr. Assad as a leader who needed to change his policies.
尽管如此，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)上周表示，美国对这两个方案都表示欢迎。他没有呼吁阿萨德辞职，这格外引人关注，因为克里在公开演讲时往往都会强调这一点。相反，他说阿萨德作为一名领导人，需要调整自己的政策。
“It is time for President Assad, the Assad regime, to put their people first and to think about the consequences of their actions, which are attracting more and more terrorists to Syria, basically because of their efforts to remove Assad,” Mr. Kerry said.
“是时候让阿萨德总统及阿萨德政权优先考虑民众，思考其行动的后果了。他们的行动正在吸引越来越多的恐怖分子前往叙利亚，基本上都是为了参加推翻阿萨德的行动，”克里说。
On Thursday in Geneva, Staffan de Mistura, the United Nations envoy for the crisis in Syria, also signaled a tactical shift, saying that “new factors” such as the growth of the Islamic State, also called ISIS and ISIL, must be taken into account. He said there was no point in trying to organize a third round of Geneva talks before building unambiguous support from both the Syrian government and its opponents for some kind of “Syrian political process.”
周四，联合国叙利亚问题特使斯塔凡·德米斯图拉(Staffan de Mistura)也在日内瓦表现出了战术上的转变，称必须将伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）的壮大等“新因素”考虑进去。他说，在取得叙利亚政府及反对派对某种“叙利亚政治进程”的明确支持之前，尝试组织第三轮日内瓦谈判没有意义。
Western diplomats who had long called for Mr. Assad’s immediate resignation say now that while he must not indefinitely control crucial institutions like the military, a more gradual transition may be worth considering.
长期要求阿萨德立即辞职的西方外交官现在也表示，尽管他不应当无限期地把持关键的权力机构，如军队，但更为循序渐进的过渡或许也是值得考虑的。
One Western diplomat at the United Nations said that while a “post-Assad phase” must eventually come, “the exact timing of that, we can discuss,” as long as the solution does not “cement his position in power.”
联合国的一名西方外交官称，“后阿萨德阶段”最终一定会到来，但“具体的时间安排，我们可以讨论”，只要解决方案不“巩固他掌权的地位”。
Western leaders now openly talk about a deal allowing some current officials to remain to prevent Syria from disintegrating, like Iraq and Libya.
眼下，西方领导人也在讨论达成一项协议，允许现任官员留任，以防止叙利亚像伊拉克和利比亚那样瓦解。
“The political solution will of course include some elements of the regime because we don’t want to see the pillars of the state fall apart. We would end up with a situation like Iraq,” the French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, told a French radio station last Monday.
“政治解决方案中，当然会包括现政权的一些成分，因为我们不想看到这个国家的支柱崩溃，否则就会陷入伊拉克那样的局面，”法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)上周一对法国的一家广播电台表示。
At the same time, such statements have further alienated Washington from ordinary anti-Assad Syrians and rank-and-file insurgents, reinforcing the idea that the West has decided to tolerate Mr. Assad.
与此同时，这类声明也让华盛顿与反对阿萨德的普通叙利亚人，以及反叛武装进一步疏远，强化了西方决定要容忍阿萨德的观点。
The view that the United States supports Mr. Assad is spreading even among the groups receiving direct American financing, groups deemed moderate enough to receive arms and work with a United States-run operations center in Turkey. A fighter with Harakat Hazm, one such group, said Wednesday that America was “looking for loopholes to reach a political solution and keep al-Assad.”
就连在直接受到美国资助的团体中，也流传着美国支持阿萨德的观点。这些团体被认为足够温和，可以获得武器，并与美国设在土耳其的一个作战中心合作。“坚忍运动”(Harakat Hazm)便是这类团体中的一个。来自该团体的一名武装人员周三称，美国正在“寻找漏洞，以便达成政治解决方案，保住阿萨德”。
Tarek Fares, a secular Syrian Army defector who long fought with the loose-knit nationalist groups known as the Free Syrian Army but who has lately quit fighting, joked bitterly about American policy one recent night in Antakya, Turkey.
塔里克·法里斯(Tarek Fares)是一名世俗人士。他曾在叙利亚陆军服役，后来倒戈，长期与组织松散的民族主义团体叙利亚自由军并肩作战。但最近，他已停止战斗。不久前的一天晚上，在土耳其的安塔基亚，他苦涩地调侃着美国的政策。
“This is how the Americans talk,” he said. “They say, ‘We have a red line, we will support you, we will arm you.’ They do nothing, and then after four years they tell you Assad is the best option.”
“美国人的话是那样说的，”他说。“他们说，‘我们划了红线，我们会支持你们，武装你们。’但实际上什么也没做，然后过了四年，他们告诉你，阿萨德是最好的选择。”
The Moscow talks are arguably in worse shape. Several crucial opposition groups have refused to attend, and despite Mr. Kerry’s remarks, they say the United States has not pressured them to go.
在莫斯科举行谈判可以说前景更为糟糕。几个关键的反对派团体拒绝参加，尽管克里做出了相关表述，但它们称美国并未向其施压，要求它们参加。
That leaves American policy ambiguous, offering only modest verbal support to the new mediation efforts while continuing to finance some Syrian insurgents — yet not enough to seriously threaten Mr. Assad. Even a new program to train them to fight ISIS will not field fighters until May.
这让美国的政策变得模棱两可，一方面只是向新的调停行动表达少许口头支持，另一方面继续向某些叙利亚反对派提供资助，不过相关资助并不足以严重威胁阿萨德。即便是一项训练反对派对抗ISIS的新项目，也要到5月才能让作战人员上战场。