ISTANBUL — The sharp, dry mountains that run between Turkey and Iraq have long marked a front line in the battle between the Turkish government and Kurdish separatists where cross-border attacks took many lives on both sides.
伊斯坦布尔——土耳其和伊拉克的边境是一片地势险峻的山区，气候相当干燥，长期以来成为了土耳其政府和库尔德分离主义者之间的战场，跨境袭击给双方都带来了重大伤亡。
Though a rapprochement has calmed the border, the United States fears stability may now be in even greater danger. The problem is not war — but commerce. Iraqi Kurds are selling oil and natural gas directly to Turkey, infuriating Washington and the central government in Baghdad, which fear that oil independence could lead Kurds to declare a broad independence and the fracturing of the nation.
虽然双方关系的修复给边境地区带来了平静，但是美国担心，这里或将陷入更大的危险当中。问题不是战争——而是商业。伊拉克库尔德人直接向土耳其出售石油和天然气，这激怒了华盛顿和巴格达中央政府。他们担忧的是，石油独立可能会促使库尔德人宣布全面独立，从而瓦解伊拉克。
Even as sectarian killing is again spiking across Iraq, and the Syrian civil war destabilizes the region, American officials in Baghdad say the flow of oil to Turkey may be the greatest potential risk to Iraq’s cohesion.
尽管伊拉克境内的部族杀戮重新抬头，同时叙利亚内战扰乱了地区的稳定，驻巴格达的美国官员还是表示，向土耳其输送石油可能是对伊拉克国内团结的最大潜在威胁。
But a year-and-a-half-long diplomatic drive by the United States to stop the flow has so far failed, reflecting Washington’s diminished influence in the region, even with its two longtime allies. Not only will trucks continue to travel daily from the Kurdish region to two Turkish cities on the Mediterranean coast, and not only will the Kurds continue to deliver oil via a pipeline to Turkey, but the parties plan to build a second pipeline, whose details have been kept secret.
美国花费了一年半的时间想要中断石油出口，但到现在为止，这方面的外交努力还是归于失败，反映出华盛顿在这个地区的影响力日渐式微，哪怕面对的是两个长期盟友。现在，不仅每天都有卡车从库尔德地区出发，前往位于地中海沿岸的两座土耳其城市，且库尔德人仍然通过管道将石油输送给土耳其，双方甚至计划建立第二条输油管道，其细节仍然对外保密。
“The Kurdistan deal with Turkey is a huge violation against the Iraqi Constitution, because they didn’t make the deal with the coordination of the central government,” said Ali Dhari, the deputy chairman of the Iraqi Parliament’s oil and gas committee. “This means the stealing of the Iraqi wealth, and we will not allow it.”
阿里·扎里(Ali Dhari)是伊拉克国会石油和天然气委员会的副主席，他说，“库尔德斯坦跟土耳其达成的协议严重违反了伊拉克宪法，因为双方的协议没有经过中央政府的协调。这意味着他们在窃取伊拉克的财富，我们不能允许这样的事情发生。”
The oil accords with Turkey, potentially worth billions of dollars, are part of a broader effort by Iraqi Kurds in recent years to cut their own energy deals — including exploration agreements with foreign companies like Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Gazprom — that sidelined the central government. The Kurds, and the Turks, say they will pay Baghdad its fair share. But officials in the capital have long claimed such arrangements are illegal.
这些跟土耳其达成的，可能价值数十亿美元的石油协议，是近年来伊拉克库尔德人试图自己达成的能源协议的一部分——包括跟埃克森美孚公司(Exxon Mobil)，雪佛龙公司(Chevron)和俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)等外国公司签署的勘探协议——这些协议都绕过了中央政府。库尔德人和土耳其人均表示，他们将向巴格达支付合适的份额。但是巴格达的官员们长期以来声称这些协议是违法的。
The controversy is in part the unfinished business of the American occupation of Iraq. The failure of the Iraqi government to pass a national oil law, one of the benchmarks set by President George W. Bush when he announced the United States troop “surge” in 2007, has left Baghdad and Erbil, the Kurdish capital, in a perpetual feud over how to divide profits and who has the authority to make agreements with international oil companies.
这一争议从某种程度上说，是美军占领伊拉克的未了问题。伊拉克政府尚未通过一份全国性的石油法律，而这正是2007年，乔治·W·布什总统(President George W. Bush)宣布美国将在伊拉克“增兵”时提出的目标之一。这一立法的缺失使得巴格达政府和库尔德地区首府埃尔比勒(Erbil)，就如何分配利润，以及谁有权跟国际石油公司签署协议等问题，陷入无休止的争议之中。
Qasim Mishkhati, a Kurdish member of Parliament’s oil and gas committee, insisted that the wealth from the deals would be shared with the rest of Iraq, and that it was the responsibility of the regional government in the north to find international markets for its oil resources. “Kurdistan is working to increase the national income so that all Iraqis can enjoy better services and more wealth,” he said.
卡西姆·米什哈提(Qasim Mishkhati)是伊拉克国会石油与天然气委员会的库尔德族成员，他坚称，从石油协议中获得的财富肯定会与伊拉克其他地区共享，而位于伊拉克北部的库尔德地方政府有责任为其石油资源寻找国际市场。他说，“库尔德斯坦正试着增加国家收入，这样所有的伊拉克人都能获得更好的政府服务以及更多的财富。”
Although the mechanism for such payments has not been worked out, the Turks and the Kurds have indicated that they would adhere to the existing proportions for the division of national revenue, meaning Baghdad would receive 83 percent of the net profit and the Kurds would keep 17 percent.
虽然相关支付机制尚未被制定出来，土耳其人和库尔德人已经指出，他们将按照现有比例划分出一部分作为国家收入，也就是说巴格达政府将获得净收入的83%，而库尔德人将保留17%。
But the alarm in Baghdad and Washington has grown with these oil deals, which appear part of a slow, long-term strategy by the Iraqi Kurds to pursue a path of increasing autonomy that experts say has one endgame: an independent Kurdish state.
但是巴格达和华盛顿对这些石油协议越来越感到警惕，这些协议似乎是伊拉克库尔德人缓慢推进的长期计划的一部分，即沿着提高自主权的道路前进。专家表示，这样做只有一个结局：一个独立的库尔德国家。
Tens of millions of Kurds live in Iraq, Syria, Turkey and Iran, and have long held ambitions for independence that for decades were thwarted. Now, amid the turmoil of the Middle East, Kurdish leaders are taking decisive steps to advance that dream, not just in Iraq, but also in Syria, where Kurdish factions recently declared an autonomous administration in the northeast.
数以千万的库尔德人居住在伊拉克、叙利亚、土耳其和伊朗，他们长期以来都希望能够获得独立，但是这一雄心数十年来都受到了阻碍。现在，随着中东陷入动荡，库尔德领袖采取了决定性的步骤来推进这个独立梦想。不只是在伊拉克，在叙利亚也是如此，库尔德部族最近在该国东北部地区宣布建立了一个自治政权。
The Iraqi Kurds run their own autonomous, and relatively prosperous region in northern Iraq, control their own ports of entry, field their own army and intelligence service and conduct their own foreign policy. The Kurdish region also has separate visa rules, so an American, for instance, might wait weeks or months to secure a visa to Baghdad, but could buy one at the airport in Erbil. The region has also served as a safe haven for Sunni officials looking to escape the reach of the Shiite-led government, including the former Vice President Tariq al-Hashimi, accused in 2011 of terrorism.
伊拉克库尔德人则在该国北部获得了自治权，他们管理着一个相对富庶的地区，拥有自己的入境口岸，建立了自己的军队和情报机构，并且执行自己的外交政策。库尔德地区也在执行不一样的签证规则，例如，一个美国人可能需要等待数周甚至数月的时间才能够获得去往巴格达的签证，但是他却能够直接在埃尔比勒机场买到签证。这里还是那些想要逃出什叶派主导政府控制地区的逊尼派官员的安全港，其中就有2011年被指控犯下恐怖主义罪行的前副总统塔里克·哈希米(Tariq al-Hashimi)。
But the oil deals also highlight the drastic reshaping of regional alliances in the past few years. In 2003 Turkey, worried that the American invasion of Iraq would promote Kurdish independence, forbade American troops to use its territory to enter Iraq.
但是这些石油协议也彰显出过去几年来区域内合纵连横的变迁。2003年，土耳其因为担心美国入侵伊拉克可能会促使库尔德人独立，因此禁止美军借道土耳其领土进入伊拉克。
But now Turkey is in the process of making peace with its own Kurds, who have waged a three-decade insurgency against the Turkish state with bases in Iraq. In a region where Turkey has few allies these days, the Iraqi Kurds have become close partners.
但是现在，土耳其正与其国内的库尔德人修好，而后者曾在伊拉克境内设置基地，对土耳其政府发动了长达三十年的叛乱。在这一地区，今天的土耳其拥有的盟友不多，他们却和伊拉克库尔德人成为了亲密伙伴。
For Turkey, though, the energy deals with Iraqi Kurdistan, which include oil and natural gas, underscore a persistent national challenge to secure reliable supplies of energy for its economy. Turkey boasts the Middle East’s largest economy but has few domestic energy sources. It has historically relied on two countries for the bulk of its energy — Russia and Iran — and a national priority for Turkey has been to diversify its sources of oil and gas.
对于土耳其来说，与伊拉克库尔德斯坦的能源协议（包括了石油和天然气）反映出该国一个重大挑战，即为其经济获取可靠的能源供给。土耳其虽然是中东地区最大的经济体，但是其国内能源资源却很少。历史上，该国主要依靠两个国家——俄罗斯和伊朗——为其提供大部分的能源，寻求其他获得石油和天然气的途径一直是该国政府优先考虑的国家利益。
The only place in the world where demand for energy is growing faster than Turkey is in China, and the only people who pay more for gasoline at the pump than Turks are Norwegians. In Turkey it can cost more than $120 to fill the tank of a compact car because of high taxes the government has levied in an effort to keep demand down.
从全世界范围来看，土耳其对能源需求的增长仅次于中国，而其成品油的价格之高仅次于挪威。在土耳其，想要给一辆紧凑型轿车加满油需要花费超过120美元，因为政府为了控制需求，对汽油征收重税。