COLUMBIA, S.C. — Viral videos of a white sheriff's deputy upending and dragging an uncooperative black girl in a high school classroom have played into a contentious national issue with particular resonance here — the intersection of race and school discipline and whether black students are disproportionately punished.
南卡罗来纳州哥伦比亚市——白人警员在高中教室里将一个不听话的黑人女孩推倒在地并拖动的视频被疯狂传播。此事发酵成一个引起争论的全国性话题，并在当地引起了特别反响——种族、学校管教及黑人学生是否受到了不公惩罚等问题在这里汇集到了一起。
The incident, which the Justice Department said Tuesday that it would investigate, follows a set of national studies showing that black students were far more likely than whites to be disciplined in public schools, even for comparable offenses.
司法部周二表示将对此进行调查，而之前的一系列全国性的研究表明，在公立学校，黑人学生比白人学生受到处罚的可能性要高得多，甚至对于类似的违纪也是如此。
The issue was receiving intense scrutiny here long before the videos released Monday.
早在视频于周一公布前，这一问题就受到了密切关注。
Last year, the racial divide in the Richland School District Two, which encompasses parts of this city and its suburbs, led to the formation of the Black Parents Association, a role in a divisive campaign between rival slates for the district's board of education. Complaints of excessive — and racially disparate — disciplinary action had been a major concern for the district for years, leading the district to form a task force last year to examine conduct policies and penalties.
里奇兰第二学区包含该市部分城区与郊区。去年，该学区的种族分歧导致了黑人家长联合会(Black Parents Association)的成立。在针锋相对的学区教育委员会竞选中，黑人家长联合会起到了一定的作用。对过多——且因种族而不同的——纪律处分的投诉多年来一直是该学区的一个主要问题，使得学区去年组建了一个特别工作组来审核行为准则和惩罚措施。
The videos, which quickly went viral, showed a sheriff's deputy assigned as a school safety officer to Spring Valley High School, addressing a 16-year-old girl who had refused to stand and leave her math class, after her teacher reportedly caught her using her phone. The deputy, Ben Fields, tipped her chair and desk over backward, lifting her out of her seat and slamming her to the floor, and then dragged her to the front of the classroom, where he cuffed her hands behind her back.
那则迅速流传的视频显示了担任春谷高中(Spring Valley High School)安全员的警察如何处理一个拒绝起立并离开数学课堂的16岁女孩。据报道，她的老师此前抓到她在玩手机。那名警员叫本·菲尔兹(Ben Fields)，他向后掀翻了女孩的桌椅，把她架出座位并推倒在地，然后把她拖到了教室前面，将她的手拷在背后。
His action drew quick condemnation from many quarters. Sheriff Leon Lott of Richland County placed the deputy on leave with pay and asked federal authorities to investigate. The Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, along with the FBI and the U.S. attorney for South Carolina, said they would look into the incident. Hillary Rodham Clinton tweeted, “The #AssaultAtSpringValleyHigh is unacceptable.” James Manning, the chairman of the district's board of trustees, said, “The amount of force used on a female student by a male officer appears to me to be excessive and unnecessary.”
他的行为迅速遭到了来自多方面的谴责。里奇兰县警长莱昂·洛特(Leon Lott)让他带薪休假，并请求联邦当局对此事进行调查。司法部民权司(Civil Rights Division)、美国联邦调查局(FBI)和南卡罗来纳州的联邦检察官表示，他们将调查这一事件。希拉里·罗德海姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在Twitter上发帖：“#春谷高中侵犯事件#绝对不可接受”。学区理事委员会的主席詹姆斯·曼宁(James Manning)说，“那名男警员对一位女同学动用的武力，在我看来是过分且不必要的。”
In Richland Two, where 59 percent of students are black, 77 percent of those suspended at least once in 2011-12 were black, according to figures compiled by the Justice Department, though comparison of the offenses involved was not readily available. And South Carolina, including Richland, relies much more on suspension than the nation as a whole; 24 percent of public school students in the state were suspended at least once that year, compared with 13 percent nationwide.
里奇兰第二学区59%的学生是黑人，而根据司法部统计的数据，2011至2012学年至少停课一次的学生中有77%是黑人，不过其中涉及的违纪对比数据不得而知。南卡罗来纳州，包括里奇兰，停课的次数远高于全国平均水平；该州公立学校有24%的学生在前述学年至少停课一次，而全国平均水平为13%。
The Richland Two Black Parents Association has criticized the district for disciplinary policies that it calls arbitrary, and that some members believe disproportionately affect African-American students, said Stephen Gilchrist, one of the founding members. He said the group was formed in early 2014 to increase African-American representation among the school district's leadership, and address cultural tensions in a racially mixed district.
里奇兰第二学区黑人家长联合会一直对学区的惩处政策持批评态度， 称之为任意武断。创始成员之一斯蒂芬·吉尔克里斯特(Stephen Gilchrist)表示，有些成员还认为它过多地针对非洲裔学生。他说，联合会成立于2014年初，目标是提升非裔在该学区领导层的发言权，并应对这个多种族地区的文化冲突问题。
The district's population is 46 percent black and 44 percent white, and before the elections in November 2014, whites held a 4-3 majority on the school board.
该学区的人口中46%是黑人，44%是白人，而在2014年11月的选举前，白人在7人的学区教育委员会中占了4席。
As the Black Parents group became more visible last year, and its members promoted African-American candidates for school board, a rival group emerged, called the Bi-Partisan Committee. Its seven principal members were white, and it sponsored a slate of three whites and one black candidate for the board.
由于去年黑人家长联合会越来越引人注目，而且其成员推动非裔候选人参选学校董事会，一个名为跨派别委员会(Bi-Partisan Committee)的竞争团体出现了。它的七个主要成员都是白人，支持三名白人和一名黑人竞选学区教育委员会席位。
Of the four contested at-large seats, three were won by the Bi-Partisan Committee's favored candidates, including their black candidate. The school board now has four black and three white members.
在四个争夺激烈的空缺席位中，跨派别委员会青睐的候选人赢得了三席，包括他们的那名黑人候选人。学区教育委员会现在有四名黑人和三名白人。
At Spring Valley, reactions to the videos varied, as did views of Fields, who is also the defensive line coach and strength coach for the school's football team.
春谷高中的人对此视频反应不一，对菲尔兹的看法也各不相同。菲尔兹还在学校担任橄榄球队的防线教练和体能教练。
Charles Scarborough, a sophomore, saw the confrontation in the classroom. He said he was sitting quietly in his Algebra I class working on some math problems.
高二学生查尔斯·斯卡伯勒(Charles Scarborough)在课堂上目睹了这场冲突。他说那时他正安静地坐在初等代数课堂上做数学题。
He said that the young woman, a sophomore, was on her phone, and that the teacher asked her to put her phone away, getting “close to her face.”
他表示，那名高二年级的女学生正在玩手机，而老师要求她把手机收起来，说话时越来越“贴近她的脸”。
When an administrator and Fields were brought in, students in the class “barely knew what was going on,” he said. The administrator and the deputy each asked her to leave multiple times and requested that she cooperate.
当管理员和菲尔兹被叫来时，班上的学生“都不大知道发生了什么事，”他说。管理员和菲尔兹两人均多次请她离开并要求她合作。
The young woman insisted that she did not do anything wrong and refused to leave. She remained quietly in her desk as they continued to ask her to leave. Then Fields grabbed the girl, flipped her desk and dragged her across the floor. Scarborough said he saw the deputy put his knee on her as he tried to arrest her.
这位年轻的女子坚称她没有做错什么，并拒绝离开。在他们继续请她离开时，她仍安静地坐在她的课桌旁。然后菲尔兹抓住了那个女孩，掀翻了她的桌子，并从地板上把她拖走。斯卡伯勒说，他看到警员在尝试逮捕她时用膝盖压住女孩。
Students in the classroom stood up, confused about what was happening. Scarborough said that he and his friends were trying to defend the young woman, but the deputy told them to “sit down or you all will be next.”
课堂上的学生站了起来，搞不清楚发生了什么事。斯卡伯勒说他和他的朋友们试图保护那个女孩，但菲尔兹告诉他们“坐下，否则接下来就轮到你们了。”
Lott said Tuesday evening that investigators had reviewed another video — the third to emerge since the episode — that showed the student “hitting” Fields “with her fists and striking him.”
星期二晚间，洛特说调查人员已经查看了另一则视频——事件发生后出现的第三段视频。这则视频显示那名学生“用她的拳头击打”菲尔兹。
But Lott, who said he was “very disturbed” by what happened, said that he was more focused on the deputy's conduct than the student's. “Even though she was wrong for disturbing the class, even though she refused to abide by the directions of the teacher, the school administrator and also the verbal commands of our deputy, I'm looking at what our deputy did,” Lott said.
但洛特表示，所发生的事情让他“非常不安”，他说他更关注警员的行为而不是学生的。“即使她因扰乱课堂秩序而违纪了，即使她拒绝了老师、学校管理人员的指示以及我们警员的口头命令，但我关注的却是我们的警员做了什么，”洛特说。
He said he expected to receive the findings of his department's internal investigation by Wednesday evening. That inquiry, which focuses on matters of department policy and not state law, will determine whether Fields remains on the force in Richland County, Lott said.
他说他预计将在周三晚间收到部门的内部调查结果。这项调查的重点在于警察部门的规章问题，而不是国家法律问题，得出的结论将决定菲尔兹能否继续留在里奇兰县警队中，洛特说。