IF you follow the commentary on American foreign policy toward Egypt and the broader Middle East today, several themes stand out: People in the region argue: “Whatever went wrong, the United States is to blame.” Foreign policy experts argue: “Whatever President Obama did, he got it wrong.” And the American public is saying: “We’re totally fed up with that part of the world and can’t wait for the start of the N.F.L. season. How do you like those 49ers?”
如果你留意美国当今对埃及和更广泛中东地区的外交政策，关注这些政策引起的评论，你会发现主要存在以下几种观点：这个地区的民众认为，“不管什么出了问题，都要归咎于美国。”外交政策专家认为：“奥巴马所做的一切都是错的。”而美国公众则说：“我们对这个地区已经失去兴趣了，我们对国家橄榄球联盟（National Football League，简称NFL）的新赛季才是望眼欲穿，你觉得49人队怎么样？”
There is actually a logic to all three positions.
但实际上，这三种观点都基于一种逻辑。
It starts with the huge difference between cold-war and post-cold-war foreign policy. During the cold war, American foreign policy “was all about how we affect the external behavior of states,” said Michael Mandelbaum, the Johns Hopkins University foreign affairs expert. We were ready to overlook the internal behavior of states, both because we needed them as allies in the cold war and because, with the Russians poised on the other side, any intervention could escalate into a superpower confrontation.
根源是冷战时期和后冷战时期外交政策的巨大区别。约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)外交学专家迈克尔·曼德尔鲍姆(Michael Mandelbaum)表示，冷战期间，美国的外交政策的核心是，“我们该如何影响其他国家的外部行为。”我们当时愿意无视其他国家内部的行为，因为一方面我们在冷战中需要这些盟友，另一方面，由于俄罗斯存心作对，任何干预都可能升级成一场超级大国之间的对峙。
Post-cold-war foreign policy today is largely about “affecting the internal composition and governance of states,” added Mandelbaum, many of which in the Middle East are failing and threaten us more by their collapse into ungoverned regions — not by their strength or ability to project power.
曼德尔鲍姆补充说，如今后冷战时期的外交政策，主要关注于“影响其他国家的内部构成和治理”。中东的许多国家正在崩溃，与这些国家的实力和发挥影响力的能力相比，它们沦落成无政府地区的可能性会对我们构成更大的威胁。
But what we’ve learned in Bosnia, Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq, Egypt and Syria is that it is very hard to change another country’s internal behavior — especially at a cost and in a time frame that the American public will tolerate — because it requires changing a country’s political culture and getting age-old adversaries to reconcile.
但是我们从波黑、阿富汗、利比亚、伊拉克、埃及和叙利亚的例子中已经知道，要改变其他国家的内部行为非常艰难，尤其是在美国公众容许的成本和时间框架下做到这一点——因为这需要改变一个国家的政治文化，还要让宿敌和解。
The primary foreign policy tools that served us so well in the cold war, said Mandelbaum, “guns, money, and rhetoric — simply don’t work for these new tasks. It is like trying to open a can with a sponge.”
曼德尔鲍姆说，在冷战期间曾经十分奏效的主要外交政策工具，“如枪炮、金钱和政治论调，根本无法完成新的任务，就像用海绵开罐头一样。”
To help another country change internally requires a mix of refereeing, policing, coaching, incentivizing, arm-twisting and modeling — but even all of that cannot accomplish the task and make a country’s transformation self-sustaining, unless the people themselves want to take charge of the process.
帮助另一个国家从内部进行改变，需要调停者、警察、教练，也需要激励、压力和榜样，但即使俱备了以上种种，也并不意味着一定能够成功地让国家的转型自行延续下去，除非该国民众自身想要掌控这个进程。
In Iraq, George W. Bush removed Saddam Hussein, who had been governing that country vertically, from the top-down, with an iron fist. Bush tried to create the conditions through which Iraqis could govern themselves horizontally, by having the different communities write their own social contract on how to live together. It worked, albeit imperfectly, as long as U.S. troops were there to referee. But once we left, no coterie of Iraqi leaders emerged to assume ownership of that process in an inclusive manner and thereby make it self-sustaining.
在伊拉克，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)推翻了萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)政权。萨达姆一直对这个国家实行着垂直的、自上而下的铁腕统治，布什试图创造条件，让伊拉克人可以水平地展开自我管理，手段是让不同的社群自行制定社会契约，决定该如何共处。虽然这个契约并不完美，但只要美军在伊拉克充当调停者，它就能正常运作。但美军撤出之后，却没有产生出一群伊拉克领导人，以包容性的方式接掌这个进程，从而使政治进程自行延续下去。
Ditto Libya, where President Obama removed Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi’s top-down, iron-fisted regime, but he declined to put U.S. troops on the ground to midwife a new social contract. The result: Libya today is no more stable, or self-sustainingly democratic, than Iraq. It just cost us less to fail there. In both cases, we created an opening for change, but the local peoples have not made it sustainable.
利比亚也是如此。奥巴马在利比亚推翻了穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Muammar el-Qaddafi)自上而下的铁腕政权。但是他拒绝派美国军队前往利比亚，去促成一个新的社会契约。结果就是，今天的利比亚并不比伊拉克更稳定，也同样没有实现自行延续的民主，只是我们在那里失败的成本要小一些。在这两个例子中，我们创造了一个变革的契机，但是当地人没能让变革持续下去。
Hence the three reactions I cited above. People of the region often blame us, because they either will not or cannot accept their own responsibility for putting things right. Or, if they do, they don’t see a way to forge the necessary societal compromises, because their rival factions take the view either that “I am weak, how can I compromise?” or “I am strong, why should I compromise?”
因此就出现了我在上文中提到的三种反应。该地区的民众常常把责任推给美国，因为他们不愿承担或承担不起纠正错误的责任。或者，即使他们承担了责任，他们也找不到达成必要的社会和解的方式，因为针锋相对的各方要么认为，“我很弱小，我怎么能让步呢？”要么认为，“我很强大，我为什么要让步？”
As for blaming Obama — for leaving Iraq too soon or not going more deeply into Libya or Syria — it grows out of the same problem. Some liberals want to “do something” in places like Libya and Syria; they just don’t want to do what is necessary, which would be a long-term occupation to remake the culture and politics of both places. And conservative hawks who want to intervene just don’t understand how hard it is to remake the culture and politics in such places, where freedom, equality and justice for all are not universal priorities, because some people want to be “free” to be more Islamist or more sectarian.
至于有人指责奥巴马太快离开伊拉克，或者没有更深入地干预利比亚或叙利亚局势，也是由同样的问题引发的。有些自由派人士想在利比亚和叙利亚这样的地方“做些事情”；他们只是不想做需要做的事情，即长期占领这两个国家，重塑它们的文化和政治。保守的鹰派人士倒是希望介入，只是他们不明白，在这样的地方重塑文化和政治有多么困难：自由、平等和正义在这里并非普遍接受的首要诉求，因为有些人想要的是更伊斯兰化、更宗派化的“自由”。
“With the traditional tools of foreign policy, we can stop some bad things from happening, but we cannot make good things happen,” noted Mandelbaum.
曼德尔鲍姆指出：“使用传统的外交政策工具，我们可以阻止一些不好的事情发生，但是无法催生好的事情。”
For instance, if it is proved that Syria has used chemical weapons, American officials are rightly considering using cruise missiles to punish Syria. But we have no hope of making Syria united, democratic and inclusive without a much bigger involvement and without the will of a majority of Syrians.
例如，假设事实证明叙利亚使用了化学武器，美国官员考虑使用巡航导弹惩罚叙利亚固然正确的，但如果我们不更加深入地干预叙利亚事务，如果大多数叙利亚人没有意愿，我们就没有希望让叙利亚变得统一、民主和包容。
And too often we forget that the people in these countries are not just objects. They are subjects; they have agency. South Africa had a moderate postapartheid experience because of Nelson Mandela and F.W. de Klerk. Japan rebuilt itself as a modern nation in the late 19th century because its leaders recognized their country was lagging behind the West and asked themselves, “What’s wrong with us?” Outsiders can amplify such positive trends, but the local people have to want to own it.
我们常常忘记，这些国家的人民不仅仅是客体，也是主体，具有主动性。南非在结束种族隔离制度后相当平稳，是因为有纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)和F·W·德克勒克(F.W. de Klerk)的努力。日本在19世纪后期重塑成了一个现代国家，是因为日本的领导人意识到这个国家落后于西方，他们问自己，“我们哪些地方做得不对？”外来者可以推动这些向好的趋势，但当地人必须有负起责任的意愿才行。
As that reality has sunk in, so has another reality, which the American public intuits: Our rising energy efficiency, renewable energy, hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling are making us much less dependent on the Middle East for oil and gas. The Middle East has gone from an addiction to a distraction.
在认识到这种现实的同时，美国公众也已经本能地感觉到了另一个现实：不断提高的能源效率、可再生能源、水力压裂法和水平钻井技术，都大大减少了我们对中东石油和天然气的依赖。中东已经从一种执迷变成了一种消遣。
Imagine that five years ago someone had said to you: “In 2013, Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia, Yemen and Iraq will all be in varying states of political turmoil or outright civil war; what do you think the price of crude will be?” You’d surely have answered, “At least $200 a barrel.”
试想一下，如果五年前有人跟你说：“在2013年，埃及、利比亚、叙利亚、突尼斯、也门和伊拉克都会出现不同程度的政局动荡，或是直接打起内战来，你觉得原油价格会怎样？”你肯定会说，“每桶至少200美元。”
But it’s half that — for a reason: “We now use 60 percent less energy per unit of G.D.P. than we did in 1973,” explained the energy economist Philip Verleger. “If the trend continues, we will use half the energy per unit of G.D.P. in 2020 that we used in 2012. To make matters better, a large part of the energy used will be renewable. Then there is the increase in oil and gas production.” In 2006, the United States depended on foreign oil for 60 percent of its consumption. Today it’s about 36 percent. True, oil is a global market, so what happens in the Middle East can still impact us and our allies. But the urgency is gone. “The Middle East is China’s problem,” added Verleger.
但是现在的油价只有200美元的一半，这是有原因的，能源经济学家菲利普·弗莱杰(Philip Verleger)解释说：“跟1973年相比，现在创造一单位GDP需要的能源减少了60%。如果这个趋势持续下去，到2020年时，单位GDP能耗会减少到2012年的一半。更棒的是，我们使用的很大一部分能源都会是可再生的。而且石油和天然气的产量还在增加。”2006年，美国消费的石油中有60%依赖外国进口，如今这个数字降到了约36%。当然，石油市场是全球性的，中东发生的事态仍然会影响我们和我们的盟友，但那种紧迫性已经没有了。“中东现在是中国的麻烦，”弗莱杰说。
Obama knows all of this. He just can’t say it. But it does explain why his foreign policy is mostly “nudging” and whispering. It is not very satisfying, not very much fun and won’t make much history, but it’s probably the best we can do or afford right now. And it’s certainly all that most Americans want.
奥巴马对这一切心知肚明，他只是没有宣之于口。但这确实解释了为什么他的外交政策以“轻轻推动”和低声细语为主。这样的外交政策不太令人满意，也不是很好玩，而且不会创造多少历史，但它可能是我们可以实施的，或者负担得起的最好的外交政策。这肯定是大多数美国人希望看到的。