The emergency release of four bombs into the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park by the United States Navy has angered some Australians, despite assurances on Monday that the unexploded ordnance posed no threat to the World Heritage-listed site’s delicate ecosystem.
美国海军在大堡礁海洋公园紧急投放了四枚炸弹，尽管本周一军方保证说，这些没有爆炸的弹药，不会对名列《世界遗产目录》的大堡礁脆弱的生态系统构成威胁，该事件还是激怒了一些澳大利亚人。
Two AV-8B Harrier jets launched from the aircraft carrier Bonhomme Richard were meant to drop the unarmed bombs on an island near the reef as part of a live-fire exercise last week, but were forced to release them at sea to avoid damaging several unauthorized vessels that had entered the area, according to the Navy.
美国海军表示，在上周进行的实弹演习中，两架AV-8B鹞式喷气机从“好人理查德号”(Bon Homme Richard)航空母舰起飞，本来计划把这些空弹投放到大堡礁附近的一个小岛上，但是为了避免伤及几艘未经授权进入该地区的船只，被迫将炸弹投入了海中。
The episode occurred July 16 off the coast of the Australian state of Queensland as part of a biennial joint training exercise called Talisman Saber, which involves about 28,000 Australian and American military personnel.
这起事件发生在两年一次的“护卫军刀”(Talisman Saber)美澳联合演习中，时间是7月16日，地点是澳大利亚昆士兰州海岸线外。约2.8万名澳大利亚和美国军事人员参与了这次演习。
The decision to jettison the bombs was made with the authorization of the Australian Defense Force, a United States Navy spokesman, Cmdr. William Marks, told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. He said the chosen location, about 62 miles off Australia’s northeastern coast, had been selected to minimize damage to the reef.
美国海军发言人威廉·马克斯中校(Cmdr. William Marks)告诉澳大利亚广播公司（Australian Broadcasting Corporation，简称ABC），丢弃炸弹的决定获得了澳大利亚国防军的授权。他说，投弹位置距离澳大利亚东北部海岸线大约有62英里远，之所以选择这个位置，是为了尽量减少对大堡礁的影响。
“The approved area where they could do some of this live training with these 500-pound bombs, it was not safe to drop the bombs. There were civilian boats right below them,” he was quoted as saying.
“在原先获得批准的区域，他们可以用这些500磅重的炸弹做些实弹演习，但是当时投弹很不安全，因为下面有民用船只。”他说。
“Their priority was to get to a place which would take the least impact. We believe we did drop in between 50 and 60 meters of water in a place where it is not a hazard to shipping and not a hazard to navigation.”
“他们的首要任务是飞去一个可以把不利影响降到最低的地方。我们相信，我们把炸弹投到了一处50到60米深的水域，这个地方不会给行船和航运带来危险。“
But assurances from both countries’ armed forces appear to have done little to placate those angered by the incident, which include Senator Larissa Waters of the Australian Greens Party.
但是，对于被这起事件激怒的人来说，两国军队做出的保证几乎没有起到安抚作用，澳大利亚绿党参议员拉瑞莎·沃特斯(Larissa Waters)就是这些人中的一个。
“Is this how we look after our World Heritage area now?” she said to the ABC. “Letting a foreign power drop bombs on it?”
“这就是我们保护澳大利亚世界遗产保护区的方式吗？”她对ABC说：“让外国军队在这里投弹吗？”
The health of the Great Barrier Reef, which stretches for about 1,800 miles and is often referred to as the world’s largest living organism, has become a major concern in recent years as scientists have warned that climate change and population pressures pose threats to its long-term survival.
大堡礁绵延约1800英里，常常被称为是全球最大的生命有机体。近年来，它的健康状况引起了人们的很大关注，因为科学家警告，气候变化和人口压力对它的长期生存构成了威胁。
In May, Unesco warned that the reef could be placed on its list of endangered World Heritage sites unless action were taken to protect it from further erosion.
今年5月，联合国教科文组织警告称，如果不采取行动，保护大堡礁免受进一步侵蚀，它就可能被列入濒危世界遗产名单中。
The extent of damage to the reef or other marine life from the incident remained unclear on Monday. A spokesman for the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority told the Australian Associated Press that it would assist the military in locating the bombs and ensuring that they were safely recovered.
这起事件会给大堡礁和其他海洋生物带来何种程度的损害，周一时尚不清楚。大堡礁海洋公园管理局的一位发言人告诉澳大利亚联合新闻社(Australian Associated Press)的记者，他们将协助军方寻找这些炸弹，并确保它们被安全地移除。
But that is not enough for environmental activists like Graeme Dunstan, who called the incident proof that the military was either unwilling or unable to protect the environment.
但是，对于像格雷姆·邓斯坦(Graeme Dunstan)这样的环保活动人士来说，仅仅这样是不够的。他称这次事件证明了军方不愿意或没有能力保护环境。
“How can they protect the environment and bomb the reef at the same time? Get real,” Mr. Dunstan told The Associated Press.
“他们怎么可能同时做到保护环境和对大堡礁投弹呢？别天真了。”邓斯坦对美联社(The Associated Press)记者说。