There’s a TV ad that’s been running in Louisiana:
在路易斯安那州，有一则电视广告反复播出：
It’s evening and a mom is tucking in her baby. Getting a nice text from dad, who’s away on a trip. Then suddenly — dark shadow on a window. Somebody’s smashing the front door open! Next thing you know, there’s police tape around the house, blinking lights on emergency vehicles.
一天夜里，母亲为婴儿掖好被子，然后收到了出差在外的丈夫发来的短信。突然之间，窗外闪过了一道黑影。有人从前门破门而入！下一幕看到的便是，屋外围起了警戒线，急救车灯光闪动。
“It happens like that,” says a somber narrator. “The police can’t get there in time. How you defend yourself is up to you. It’s your choice. But Mary Landrieu voted to take away your gun rights. Vote like your safety depends on it. Defend your freedom. Defeat Mary Landrieu.”
“事情就是这样发生的，”冷静的旁白声响起。“警察无法及时赶到。如何自卫全靠你自己。这是你本人的选择。可是，玛丽·兰德里欧(Mary Landrieu)投票赞成剥夺你的持枪权。投票时，想想你的安全维系于此。捍卫你的自由。打败玛丽·兰德里欧。”
Guns are a big issue in some of the hottest elections around the country this year, but there hasn’t been much national discussion about it. Perhaps we’ve been too busy worrying whether terrorists are infecting themselves with Ebola and sneaking across the Mexican border.
在全美争夺最激烈的一些竞选中，枪械是一大议题，但一直未见多少这方面的全国性讨论。或许是因为，我们太忙于担心恐怖分子是不是正在让自己感染上埃博拉，然后从美墨边境潜入。
But now, as usual, we’re returning to the issue because of a terrible school shooting.
不过现在，因为一起恐怖的校园枪杀案，我们又回到了这一议题上。昔日重现。
The latest — a high school freshman boy with a gun in the school’s cafeteria — occurred in the state of Washington, which also happens to be ground zero for the election-year gun debate. At least that’s the way the movement against gun violence sees it. There’s a voter initiative on the ballot that would require background checks for gun sales at gun shows or online. “We need to be laser focused on getting this policy passed,” said Brian Malte of the Brady Campaign.
最近的这桩枪击事件发生在华盛顿州：一名高一男生在学校餐厅扫射。华盛顿州正好是选举年枪支问题辩论的中心——至少这是防止枪械暴力团体的看法。今年的选票上将出现一项选民倡议，内容是要求对枪支展和在线销售的买家进行背景调查。“我们需要精准聚焦到让这项政策过关，”布雷迪运动(Brady Campaign)的布莱恩·马尔特(Brian Malte)说。
Think about this. It’s really remarkable. Two years after the Sandy Hook tragedy, the top gun-control priority in the United States is still background checks. There is nothing controversial about the idea that people who buy guns should be screened to make sure they don’t have a criminal record or serious mental illness. Americans favor it by huge majorities. Even gun owners support it. Yet we’re still struggling with it.
想想看，真是神奇。桑迪·胡克(Sandy Hook)小学的悲剧过去两年了，美国在控枪问题上的当务之急还停留在背景调查方面。购枪者应当接受筛查，以确保他们没有犯罪记录或是严重的精神疾病。这一概念本身并无争议，得到了绝大多数美国民众的赞成。就连拥有枪械的人群也拥护。然而，我们还是在这一点上举步维艰。
The problem, of course, is the National Rifle Association, which does not actually represent gun owners nearly as ferociously as it represents gun sellers. The background check bill is on the ballot under voter initiative because the Washington State Legislature was too frightened of the N.R.A. to take it up. This in a state that managed to pass a right-to-die law, approve gay marriage and legalize the sale of marijuana.
不用说，问题出在美国步枪协会（National Rifle Association，简称NRA）身上。该协会作为军火商代言人的积极性，其实要远远超出作为持枪者的代表。华盛顿州的背景调查提案之所以要以选民倡议的形式出现在选票上，是因为州议会太害怕NRA会大做文章。要知道，这个州设法通过了安乐死法、批准了同性婚姻，还让大麻销售合法化。
The N.R.A. has worked hard to cultivate its reputation for terrifying implacability. Let’s return for a minute to Senator Mary Landrieu, who’s in a very tough re-election race. Last year, in the wake of Sandy Hook, she voted for a watered-down background check bill. It failed to get the requisite 60 votes in the Senate, but the N.R.A. is not forgetting.
NRA使出浑身解数，为自己塑造了一种令人胆寒的记仇名声。我们再简单回顾一下正在为连任联邦参议员而进行激烈选战的玛丽·兰德里欧的例子。去年，在桑迪·胡克小学枪击案余波未平的时候，她投票赞成一项打了折扣的背景调查提案。由于未能在参议院获得所需的60票，提案没有通过。不过，NRA可不会忘记这件事。
Nor is it a fan of compromise. Landrieu has tried to straddle the middle on gun issues; she voted last year for the N.R.A.’s own top priority, a bill to create an enormous loophole in concealed weapons laws. As a reward, she got a “D” rating and the murdered-mom ad. In Colorado, the embattled Senator Mark Udall, who has a similar voting record, is getting the same treatment.
NRA也从不喜欢妥协。兰德里欧一直努力在控枪问题上当中间派。去年，NRA的要务是一项为隐秘携带武器的法规创造出巨大漏洞的提案。对此，兰德里欧也投了赞成票。结果呢？她得到的评价是勉强及格，以及那则“母亲遭谋杀”的广告。在科罗拉多州，深陷激烈选战的联邦参议员马克·尤德尔(Mark Udall)有着类似的投票记录。他也得到了同样的待遇。
The N.R.A.’s vision of the world is purposefully dark and utterly irrational. It’s been running a series of what it regards as positive ads, which are so grim they do suggest that it’s time to grab a rifle and head for the bunker. In one, a mournful-looking woman asks whether there’s still anything worth fighting for in “a world that demands we submit, succumb, and believe in nothing.” It is, she continues, a world full of “cowards who pretend they don’t notice the elderly man fall ...”
NRA刻意呈现的世界，不仅黑暗，而且完全丧失理性。协会制作了一系列自称正面的广告，实际上却阴郁无比，暗示人们赶紧抓起一支枪躲进地堡。在一则广告中，一名愁云满面的女性责问，“在一个强求我们投降屈服、没有信仰的世界里”，还有什么值得为之斗争？接下来，她说这个世界里充满了“假装没有看见老人摔倒的懦夫”。
Now when was the last time you saw people ignore an elderly man who falls down? I live in what is supposed to be a hard-hearted city, but when an old person trips and hits the ground, there is a veritable stampede to get him upright.
问题是，上回你看到老人摔倒没人扶是什么时候？我生活的地方，市民的铁石心肠是出了名的，但每当有老人打了踉跄摔倒在地，周围的人绝对是争先恐后地去把人扶起来。
The ad running against people like Landrieu makes no sense whatsoever. If that background-check bill had become law, the doomed mother would still have been able to buy a gun for protection unless she happened to be a convicted felon. And while we have many, many, many things to worry about these days, the prospect of an armed stranger breaking through the front door and murdering the family is not high on the list. Unless the intruder was actually a former abusive spouse or boyfriend, in which case a background check would have been extremely helpful in keeping him unarmed.
抨击兰德里欧等人的广告完全不合理。倘若背景调查提案成为了法律，广告里那位倒霉的母亲还是可以购买用于自卫的枪械，除非她恰好是个定了罪的重刑犯。而且，虽说我们目前有很多很多事情要担忧，但持械歹徒破门而入杀害全家的几率并不高。除非侵入者其实是有施暴倾向的前配偶或前男友，而如果这种情况的话，背景调查会非常有助于让他没法弄到武器。