Even as regulators continue to wrestle with the protracted trade conflict with China over solar panels, the case has already started to reshape the industry, lifting manufacturers based outside China while also raising prices of panels for developers.
虽然美国监管机构与中国关于太阳能组件的长期贸易争端仍在继续，但这起案件已经开始重新塑造该行业，让中国之外的生产商颇受鼓舞，而且还抬升了太阳能开发商购买组件的价格。
On Friday, the United States Commerce Department took another step in that direction, finding that Chinese solar companies had dumped their products on the American market at below cost, and imposing duties of 10.74 percent to 55.49 percent. The ruling follows a separate decision in June that ruled that Chinese solar panel manufacturers had benefited from unfair government subsidies and that imposed steep duties of about 19 percent to 35 percent.
周五，美国商务部又朝着这一方向采取了另一项举措，认定中国太阳能公司在以低于成本的价格向美国市场倾销产品，因而将对其加征10.74%到55.49%的关税。此前，6月份的另一项判决认为，中国太阳能组件生产商受益于不公正的政府补贴，因而对其征收19%到35%的高额关税。
Even though Friday’s ruling, like the one in June, is preliminary and could change — final rulings are expected this year — the effect of the higher tariffs imposed in June has been evident in the market. Panel prices have increased by about 10 percent since then, developers and analysts say, resulting in decreased demand for some of the large, low-cost manufacturers that have dominated the market, like Yingli and Suntech.
虽然周五的裁决与6月的一样，都属于初判，还可能发生变化——最终裁决将于今年出台——但6月实施的较高关税已经给市场带来了明显影响。从那时起，太阳能组件的价格上涨了大约10%。开发商和分析人士称，对英利和尚德等一些主导市场的大型低成本生产商的需求因此开始降低。
But it has been a boon to other companies, whose products are suddenly seen as competitive and are winning new business. American and European manufacturers that survived the fierce competition with Chinese companies have already shown glimpses of a revival.
不过，这种情况对于其他企业有好处，因为它们的产品突然开始具备竞争力，公司也获得了一些新业务。在与中国企业的激烈竞争中幸存下来的美欧洲生产商已经开始显露复苏迹象。
SolarCity, the fast-growing rooftop solar power provider based in San Mateo, Calif., recently announced it would buy as much as 240 megawatts’ worth of panels from REC Solar, a Norwegian manufacturer, and acquired a start-up, Silevo, with plans to produce panels in Buffalo. SolarWorld Industries America, the manufacturing company based in Oregon that brought the original case, has also benefited with a recent deal to sell equipment to RGS Energy, an installer.
总部设在加利福尼亚州圣马特奥市的SolarCity公司是一家增长迅速的屋顶太阳能设备供应商。公司最近宣布，它将从挪威生产商REC太阳能(REC Solar)手中购买至多240兆瓦的太阳能组件，并且已收购初创企业Silevo，计划在布法罗生产太阳能组件。最初提起诉讼的是位于俄勒冈州的生产商太阳能世界工业（美国）公司(SolarWorld Industries America)。它最近也从中获益，达成了向安装公司RGS能源(RGS Energy)出售设备的交易。
“We’re scrambling to buy modules with solar cells made in Korea, Japan and Malaysia,” said Ocean Yuan, the president and founder of Grape Solar, a solar panel importer in Eugene, Ore. He added that the effect of the June ruling was clear at a big industry conference in San Francisco this month, where few Chinese companies even bothered to set up displays. Companies that used to take up an entire floor filled only a small corner.
“我们正在争相购买带有韩国、日本和马来西亚制造的太阳能电池的组件，”俄勒冈州尤金的太阳能组件进口商Grape Solar公司的总裁及创始人袁海洋(Ocean Yuan)称。他还表示，6月的判决所产生的影响在旧金山本月举行的一次大型行业会议上明显展现了出来。为数不多的中国企业甚至连展台都没设。它们曾占据整层场地，如今却只聚集在一个小角落里。
“There are only a handful of Chinese manufacturers showing at the exhibition,” he said. “There used to be a lot of them.”
“只有少数几家中国生产商在会上进行了展示，”他说。“曾经有很多。”
The United States had already imposed duties on solar panels made from Chinese solar cells — the final major parts that are assembled into modules — in 2012, but many makers avoided the duties by using cells produced elsewhere, especially in Taiwan. The current proceeding is part of an effort by SolarWorld Industries America, a subsidiary of a German company, to close that loophole. Indeed, the decision on Friday included Taiwanese cells and imposed duties on them of 27.59 percent to 44.18 percent.
从2012年开始，美国已经对带有中国制造的太阳能电池的组件征收额外关税。太阳能电池是构成组件的最后一个重要部件。但是，许多生产商纷纷通过使用别处——尤其是台湾——制造的电池来避税。太阳能世界工业（美国）公司是一家德国企业的分支。目前的诉讼是该公司为了弥补这个漏洞所采取的一种措施。的确，周五的判决中涵盖了台湾电池，并决定对它们加征27.59%到44.18%的关税。
Still, many issues remain in the air, injecting an unwelcome uncertainty into the solar market.
然而，许多事情仍然悬而未决，为太阳能市场注入了一种令人不快的不确定性。
“For the industry the most important thing is access to a steady supply chain of products that are particularly priced, and not just priced today or a week from now or a month from now but really looking out to 2015 and ’16,” said Robert Petrina, managing director of Yingli Green Energy Americas. “Where is that certainty going to come from?”
“对于行业而言，最重要的是获得稳定的产品供应链，产品定价应该很明确，而且有效期不应仅限于今天、未来一周或一个月，而是能持续到2015年到2016年，”英利绿色能源美洲分公司(Yingli Green Energy Americas)的执行董事罗伯特·彼得林(Robert Petrin)说。“接下来，要到哪里去找这种确定性呢？”
As a result of higher prices on Chinese panels, companies that both make and install systems, like SunPower, which is based in San Jose, Calif., could end up in a more competitive position, said Robert Stone, an analyst at Cowen and Company, because higher-efficiency equipment could offer cost savings over the long term.
考恩公司(Cowen & Company)的分析师罗伯特·斯通(Robert Stone)认为，由于中国太阳能组件价格上涨，那些同时生产和安装太阳能系统的公司——比如设在加州圣何塞的SunPower——可能会更具竞争力，因为从长期来看，能效较高的设备能够节省开支。
But he cautioned that the trade case was harmful to the industry as a whole, which needs to keep lowering its prices, since generous subsidies are set to diminish after 2016.
但他告诫，这起贸易案有损整个太阳能行业。该行业需要持续降价，因为高额补贴将在2016年后减少。
“It’s a waste of effort all around,” he said. “What will ultimately happen is it will be some other offshore manufacturing location or Mexico or something that will end up being the next best alternative if products made in China are blocked by trade barriers.”
“完全是白费力气，”他说。“最后会上演的一幕是，如果中国制造的产品被贸易壁垒挡在了门外，那么其他一些海外产地，或者墨西哥之类的地方，将成为下一个最佳选择。”
Although solar analysts and executives say that they do not expect development to stop, the uncertainty over pricing has already put some projects — especially new large solar farms planning to sell power to utilities — on shaky ground.
尽管太阳能领域的分析人士和高管表示，他们预计发展不会停滞，但围绕定价的不确定性已经动摇了部分项目，尤其是计划向公用事业企业出售电力的大型新太阳能发电厂。
Shayle Kann of GTM Research said that the increases came at a particularly difficult time for the large-scale end of the market because developers had been signing power purchase agreements with utilities at low prices that could become difficult to fulfill if equipment costs nudged up.
GTM Research的舍勒·卡恩(Shayle Kann)表示，涨价正好发生在市场的大规模应用端处境尤其艰难的时候，因为太阳能开发商之前一直在与公用事业企业签订低价售电协议，如果设备成本上涨，这些协议会变得难以履行。
In China, the looming possibility of even higher tariffs has alarmed the industry, even though its dependence on the American market has already shrunk, and is prompting at least some executives to consider shifting production elsewhere, possibly the United States. Existing tariffs have already limited sales of Chinese solar panels to the United States, to the point that they account for a little less than a tenth of the Chinese industry’s worldwide sales.
在中国，尽管对美国市场的依赖已有所减少，但关税即将再攀新高的可能性让整个行业忧心忡忡，并正促使至少一部分高管考虑将生产转移到其他地方去，比如美国。现有关税已经限制了中国面向美国的太阳能组件销量，使其在中国的行业全球销量中所占的比例不足十分之一。
Steven Han, a solar industry analyst at SWS Research, an investment analyst based in Shanghai, said that without adding more tariffs, Chinese manufacturers would account for two to three gigawatts out of an American market of about five gigawatts this year. By contrast, Chinese manufacturers supply virtually all of China’s market, the world’s largest, which could reach 14 gigawatts this year. They also ship about five gigawatts each to the European Union and Japan each year, with smaller shipments to markets like Thailand.
上海投资分析机构申银万国证券研究所(SWS Research)的太阳能行业分析师韩启明表示，如果不加征关税，在今年约为50亿瓦规模的美国市场中，中国生产商将占据20至30亿瓦。相比之下，供应中国市场的几乎均为本国生产商。中国是全球最大的太阳能组件市场，今年的规模将达140亿瓦。中国生产商每年还分别向欧盟和日本出口50亿瓦，并向泰国等市场出口较少量的产品。
But the United States market could still spell the difference between recovering profitability for Chinese manufacturers and continued losses. Steeply declining prices from 2010 through 2013 prompted some Chinese manufacturers, like Suntech, to mothball part of their factory capacity, and that has resulted in a leveling of prices since January this year.
但对中国生产商而言，美国市场可能依然意味着，究竟是盈利能力逐渐恢复，还是继续亏损？从2010年开始一直贯穿2013全年的价格暴跌，促使尚德等部分中国生产商封存部分产能，从而导致自今年1月以来价格保持平稳。
If the United States increases the duties, that equilibrium could be disrupted with renewed pressure for discounting. “Every market is very important” for absorbing Chinese production, Mr. Han said.
如果美国增加关税，这种平衡可能会被重新出现的打折压力破坏。韩启明表示，对吸收中国的产能而言，“每个市场都非常重要。”
One of the largest Chinese solar panel manufacturers by production, JA Solar of Shanghai, registered in the United States this month to issue up to $250 million worth of securities, without specifying the type of shares. Gary Dvorchak, a spokesman for JA Solar, wrote in an email that the registration, “increases its financial flexibility for any opportunities that come along,” but he declined to say what was planned.
上海晶澳是中国最大的太阳能组件生产商之一。本月，该公司在美国注册，以便发行价值至多2.5亿美元（约合15.5亿元人民币）的证券，但并未具体说明股份类别。公司发言人加里·德沃夏克(Gary Dvorchak)通过电子邮件接受采访称，在美国注册“提高了公司在任何机会到来时的财务灵活性，”但他拒绝透露公司的计划。