MANILA — A United States Marine accused in the gruesome killing of a Filipino woman was placed in custody Wednesday on a Philippine military base, in a case that some analysts say could have implications for the two countries’ military relationship.
马尼拉——本周三，一名美国海军陆战队员在菲律宾的一个军事基地遭到羁押，他被指控残忍地杀害了一名菲律宾籍女子。一些分析人士表示，此案可能对两国的军事关系造成影响。
The Marine, Pfc. Joseph Scott Pemberton, 19, has been identified by the Philippine police as the prime suspect in the killing of Jennifer Laude, 26. Formal charges against Private Pemberton were still being prepared, a prosecutor said.
19日，菲律宾警方表示，美国海军陆战队一等兵约瑟夫·斯科特·彭伯顿(Joseph Scott Pemberton)是杀害26岁的珍妮弗·劳德(Jennifer Laude)的头号犯罪嫌疑人。一名检察官说，他们正在准备正式起诉彭伯顿。
Some Philippine senators cited the case in calling for a review of the longstanding agreement setting the rules for allowing American military forces to be in the country, including the handling of criminal cases involving them. But the case could also affect a new agreement that would give the United States more latitude in temporarily stationing ships, aircraft, equipment and personnel in its former colony.
一些菲律宾参议员以这个案件为由，呼吁该国审视一个长期协议；该协议设定了允许美国军队驻扎该国的相关规则，包括对其刑事案件的处理。但是该案也可能会影响到一个新的协议，如果该协议达成，美国就可以更加自由地把舰船、飞机、设备和人员暂时驻扎在自己的这个前殖民地。
The deal is considered crucial to the United States’ efforts to solidify its influence in Asia as China’s power grows. The start of the agreement has already been delayed until the Philippine Supreme Court rules on a case questioning its constitutionality.
一些人认为，随着中国的实力增长，该协议对于美国巩固其在亚洲的影响力至关重要。该协议的启动已经被推迟，因为菲律宾最高法院需要首先对一个案件作出裁决，判定这种做法是否符合菲律宾宪法。
The police handling the murder investigation say that on Oct. 11, Ms. Laude’s body was found partly undressed in a hotel room in Olongapo City, just outside the former American naval base at Subic Bay, which now hosts regular visits by United States ships. She had apparently been drowned in the hotel room’s toilet, the police said.
调查这起谋杀案的警官表示，10月11日，在奥隆阿波市一家酒店的房间中，有人发现了劳德衣衫不整的尸体。该酒店就在苏比克湾前美国海军基地的外面，现在美国船只会定期造访这里。看起来，她是被淹死在酒店房间的洗手间里的，警方说。
Private Pemberton, who was in the Philippines for joint military exercises, met Ms. Laude at a nightclub and the two went to the hotel, the police said. Witnesses said the Marine left the hotel room about 30 minutes later, according to the police.
警方称，彭伯顿在菲律宾参加联合军事演习，他与劳德在一家夜总会相遇，然后两人去了这家酒店，有目击者表示，约30分钟后，彭伯顿离开了酒店房间。
Under the terms of the Visiting Forces Agreement, which was signed in 1999, the Philippines has jurisdiction over American military personnel accused of committing crimes in the country, but the United States can retain custody of the suspect until proceedings are completed.
根据1999年签订的《军队到访协议》(Visiting Forces Agreement)，对于被控在菲律宾犯下罪行的美军人员，菲律宾拥有司法管辖权，但在相关程序结束前，犯罪嫌疑人可以由美国进行羁押。
Private Pemberton, who is from Massachusetts, is being guarded by both American and Philippine military personnel while in custody, Philippine military officials said.
彭伯顿来自马萨诸塞州，在羁押期间由美国和菲律宾的军事人员看守，菲律宾军方官员表示。
The case comes at a delicate time for the two countries’ military relations. In April, they signed a 10-year agreement making it easier to temporarily station American personnel in the Philippines. The deal, called the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement, was intended in part to help the Philippines upgrade its military abilities. The Philippines, whose air force and navy are among the weakest in Southeast Asia, is involved in several territorial disputes with China in the South China Sea.
此案发生时，两国军事关系正处在一个微妙的时间点上。今年4月，两国签署了一份为期10年的协议，让美方人员暂时驻扎菲律宾变得更容易。该协议名为《增强防卫合作协议》(Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement,EDCA)，部分意图是帮助菲律宾升级军事能力。菲律宾是东南亚空军和海军实力最弱的国家之一，它与​​中国在南海存在一些领土争端。
If the accord “were nullified, then any hopes in Manila of the U.S. playing an active role in the South China Sea dispute would effectively die with it,” said James Hardy, Asia-Pacific editor for IHS Jane’s Defense Weekly.
“马尼拉指望美国在南海争端中发挥积极作用，如果协议被取消，他们的希望就会破灭，”《简氏防务周刊》(IHS Jane's Defence Weekly)亚太区编辑詹姆斯·哈迪(James Hardy)说。