Unlike the seventh game of the World Series, the debate over the economy’s strength sometimes seems like a playoff competition that goes on forever between skeptics and believers. But on Thursday, the boosters won at least a temporary victory with a government report that estimated the nation’s economic output rose at a healthy 3.5 percent annual rate in the third quarter.
不同于棒球世界大赛(World Series)的第七场比赛，围绕经济势头的讨论，就像一场永远都不会结束的争夺，悲观者和乐观者僵持不下。但周四，乐观的一方至少暂时占了上风，因为一份政府报告估计，美国第三季度的经济产出增长健康，同比增速为3.5%。
After an even faster pace of growth in the spring, the higher-than-expected advance in gross domestic product — a measure of all the goods and services produced in the United States — was driven by gains across the board, bolstered by an unusual burst of military spending and a more favorable trade balance.
在今春取得更快增长速度之后，美国国内生产总值(GDP)增长高于预期，是受到了整体经济增长的推动。GDP是衡量境内生产的所有商品和服务的指标。不同寻常的军事开支激增，以及更有利的贸易平衡，都刺激了整体经济的增长。
“This is the strongest six-month interval we’ve had in 10 years,” said Carl R. Tannenbaum, chief economist at the Northern Trust Company. “The pace of the expansion has clearly increased.”
“这是10年来势头最强劲的六个月，”北方信托公司(Northern Trust Company)首席经济师卡尔·R·坦嫩鲍姆(Carl R. Tannenbaum)说。“经济扩张步伐明显加快。”
While the G.D.P. report is mostly a look to the past, markets were generally cheered by the latest economic news, which also included an upswing in consumer confidence and further evidence from weekly unemployment claims that the labor market is on the mend. Bond prices barely moved as the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 0.6 percent to 1,994.65 and the Dow Jones industrial average increased more than 221 points to close at 17,195.42.
尽管这份GDP报告主要是对过去的回顾，但市场普遍受到了最新经济消息的鼓舞。其他好消息还有，消费者信心回升，每周首次申领失业保险人数也出现好转，后者表明就业市场正在回暖。标准普尔500股票指数(Standard & Poor's 500)上扬0.6%，涨至1994.65点，道琼斯(Dow Jones)工业平均指数上涨逾221点，收于17195.42点。债券行情几乎没有发生变化。
The economy’s performance during July, August and September followed the second quarter’s 4.6 percent annualized growth rate. This sustained expansion was welcomed after a bitter winter that contributed to a 2.1 percent decrease for the first three months of the year.
经济在7月、8月和9月期间的表现，延续了二季度年化增长4.6%的趋势。去年冬天形势严峻，导致今年一季度经济收缩2.1%。有鉴于此，这种持续增长受到了欢迎。
“This is a pretty solid set of numbers,” said John Canally, chief economic strategist for LPL Financial. “We’re doing O.K. here.”
“这是一组很稳健的数字，”LPL金融(LPL Financial)首席经济策略师约翰·卡纳利(John Canally)说。“经济状况还可以。”
Many forecasters expect the economy to continue to advance at a roughly similar pace, which should help the unemployment rate to keep falling.
许多预测人士估计，经济会继续以大致相当的速度发展，这应该有助于失业率的持续下滑。
“I don’t think it’s going to be hard to maintain a growth of 3 percent for the fourth quarter,” Mr. Tannenbaum said.
“我认为四季度维持3%的增长率不难，”坦嫩鲍姆说。
Any conclusions about the economy’s path, of course, are preliminary. Government statisticians will revise Thursday’s figure twice, first in November and then in December. Based on experience, the final measure of growth could end up changing as much as a percentage point in either direction, according to Pantheon Macroeconomics.
当然，对经济发展形势做出任何论断都为时过早。政府统计人员会对周四的数据进行两次调整，第一次是在11月，第二次是在12月。潘西恩宏观经济咨询公司(Pantheon Macroeconomics)表示，根据经验，最终的增长率数字可能会上下浮动多达一个百分点。
In the meantime, skeptics pointed to some troubling signs. Consumer spending, though up 1.8 percent, was weaker than some economists had hoped given the recent job growth. They had expected lower- and middle-income families to spend money they saved from falling gas prices and wealthier households to spread around their profits from the stock market.
与此同时，质疑者指出了一些令人担忧的迹象。考虑到最近就业的增长，消费者支出尽管提高了1.8%，但依然不及部分经济学家的预期。他们原本预计，中低收入家庭会将汽油价格下降省下来的钱花出去，较为富裕的家庭则会将从股票市场取得的收益用于消费。
“The components may not be as strong as the headline number shows,” said Krishna Memani, chief investment officer at Oppenheimer Funds. The housing sector registered only a 1.8 percent gain, down from an 8.8 percent increase last quarter. And military spending, which jumped a whopping 16 percent, is notoriously volatile.
“GDP的各组成部分，可能并不像整体数据显示的那么强劲，”奥本海默基金(Oppenheimer Funds)首席投资官克里希纳·梅马尼(Krishna Memani)说。房地产行业只表现出了1.8%的增速，而上季度的增速还高达8.8%。而且军事开支激增了16%，众所周知这一数字也不会稳定。
Still, for nearly two years, government austerity has been a drag on the economy, and the 10 percent growth in federal spending this quarter reversed that trend, at least for now.
不过，在将近两年的时间里，政府所采取的紧缩政策也抑制了经济，而本季度联邦政府增加的10%支出，则扭转了这个趋势，至少目前如此。
A greater worry for many economists is how Europe’s anemic growth affects the American economy. They fear that European policy makers and the European Central Bank are not doing enough to stimulate their sluggish economies. The E.C.B.’s announcement on Monday that it was buying 1.7 billion euros’ worth of private assets was dismissed by some economists as too modest an effort given the region’s economic problems.
让许多经济学家更为担心的是，欧洲经济增长乏力将会给美国经济带来什么影响。他们担心，欧洲政策制定者和欧洲央行(European Central Bank)并没有采取充分的措施来刺激迟缓的经济。欧洲央行周一宣布，它将购买价值17亿欧元（约合130亿元人民币）的私营部门资产。有些经济学家认为，考虑到欧洲的经济问题，这个举动力度仍然太小。
Doug Handler, chief United States economist at IHS, predicted real growth for all of 2014 to be only 2.2 percent — below the United States’ long-term average growth rate of 3 percent.
环球通视(IHS)的首席美国经济学家道格·汉德勒(Doug Handler)预计，2014年全年的实际增长只有2.2%，低于美国3%的长期平均增长率。
And in a speech in Boston this month, Janet L. Yellen, the Federal Reserve Board chairwoman, expressed concern about a decline in the number of new businesses, which are traditionally a vehicle for enterprising Americans to get ahead.
本月，美联储主席珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)在波士顿发表演讲时表示，对新企业数量的减少感到担心。创业一直是富有进取精神的美国人出人头地的一条途径。
Lurking beneath all the statistics is the concern that the promising numbers are masking profound inequalities and stagnant incomes for most Americans, as Ms. Yellen indicated in her Boston speech.
所有数据背后也潜藏着一些担忧：这些令人充满希望的统计数据，掩盖了严重的不平等现象，也掩盖了大多数美国人的收入增长停滞的状况。耶伦在她的波士顿演讲中也提到了这一点。
“It is no secret that the past few decades of widening inequality can be summed up as significant income and wealth gains for those at the very top and stagnant living standards for the majority,” she said. “I think it is appropriate to ask whether this trend is compatible with values rooted in our nation’s history, among them the high value Americans have traditionally placed on equality of opportunity.”
“众所周知，过去数十年日益加剧的不平等，可以归结为社会顶层人士的收入和财富显著增加，而大多数人的生活水平则停滞不前，”她说。“我认为应当追问，这种趋势与植根于我国历史的价值观是否相符，其中包括美国人一直非常珍视的机会均等。”
All in all, though, those who are upbeat about the economy could add several points to their scorecard this week. The Labor Department said on Thursday that new claims for unemployment insurance benefits remained low. The four-week moving average was 281,000, a 14-year low and down from 352,500 a year ago.
不过，总而言之，对经济持乐观态度的人，本周还是可以在他们的计分卡上加上几分。劳工部(Labor Department)周四表示，申领失业保险金的新增人数仍然很少。四周的变动平均线为28.1万，下降到了14年来的最低值，一年前为35.25万。
And a report from the Conference Board showed that the consumer confidence index reached a seven-year high in October. That positive outlook combined with continued low gas prices could help push up consumer spending during the holiday season.
来自世界大型企业联合会(Conference Board)的一份报告显示，10月，消费者信心指数达到7年来最高水平。由于前景乐观，再加上汽油价格持续走低，假日期间的消费者支出可能会有所增加。