No one can know for sure what was in the mind of the person who fired the shot that killed a woman as she drove through Milwaukee on Tuesday. The shooter was 2 years old.
没人确切地知道，那个周二开枪打死开车穿过密尔沃基的女子的人，脑子里究竟在想什么。枪手是一名两岁的孩子。
The woman who died on State Highway 175 was Patrice Price, 26, the Milwaukee County sheriff’s office said Wednesday, and the gun was in the hands of her own toddler.
密尔沃基县治安官办公室周三公布，死在175号州级公路上的是26岁的帕翠斯·普赖斯(Patrice Price)，持枪的则是她自己的孩子。
The weapon, which investigators found on the floor of the back seat, was a .40-caliber pistol used by Ms. Price’s boyfriend, a security guard. His gun belt and tactical vest were also in the car, the sheriff’s office said. The local news media reported that the blue Dodge sedan Ms. Price was driving belonged to the boyfriend.
调查人员在后座的地板上找到了涉事的手枪。这是一把 .40口径的手枪，由普赖斯当保安的男友使用。治安官办公室称，他的枪套和战术背心也在车里。当地的新闻媒体报道，普赖斯当时驾驶的那辆蓝色道奇(Dodge)轿车是她男朋友的。
The sheriff’s office, which would not name the boyfriend, said in a statement that the 2-year-old, who was not in a car seat, “retrieved a firearm that slid out from under the driver’s seat and shot through the seat, striking the driver.”
治安官办公室不愿透露普赖斯男友的姓名。他们在一份声明中称，这个两岁的孩子“拿到了从驾驶员座位下面滑出来的手枪，隔着座位开枪，子弹击中了司机。”当时，孩子未坐在儿童座椅内。
Ms. Price managed to stop the car, but by the time rescue personnel reached her, she was not breathing. She was pronounced dead at the scene.
普赖斯设法停下了车，但当救援人员到达时，她已经停止了呼吸。普赖斯被当场宣布死亡。
The sheriff’s office did not say whether anyone would face criminal charges.
治安官办公室未透露是否有人会面临刑事指控。
In tales of gun violence, accidents involving curious children and weapons seem especially tragic, but they are not especially unusual. Most often, they involve guns left unsecured by the child’s parents.
在有关枪支暴力的事件中，涉及充满好奇心的孩子与武器的事故似乎尤其悲惨，但这类事故并不是特别罕见。最常见的情况是，家长没有把枪放在安全的地方。
In the seven days that ended Tuesday, in addition to the death of Ms. Price, a 3-year-old in Georgia, a 3-year-old in Louisiana, a 2-year-old in Missouri and a 2-year-old in Indiana fatally shot themselves; a 4-year-old in Texas shot and wounded a family member; a 16-year-old in California killed a 14-year-old friend in a shooting that officials called accidental; a 15-year-old in Texas accidentally shot and wounded a 16-year-old friend; and a 13-year-old in Indiana accidentally shot and wounded herself.
在截至周二的七天时间里，除普赖斯丧命外，乔治亚州一个三岁的孩子、路易斯安那州一个三岁的孩子、密苏里州一个两岁的孩子和印第安纳州一个两岁的孩子开枪打死了自己；德克萨斯州一个四岁的孩子开枪打伤了一名家人；在加利福尼亚州的一场官方认定为事故的枪击事件中，一名16岁的少年打死了14岁的朋友；德克萨斯州一个15岁的孩子意外开枪，打伤了自己16岁的朋友；印第安纳州一名13岁的小姑娘不小心打伤了自己。
In an episode with striking parallels to the Milwaukee shooting, last month a mother driving in Florida was shot and wounded by her 4-year-old son, who was in the back seat; law enforcement officials said that in that case, too, the gun had been stashed under the driver’s seat, and then slid backward. The woman, Jamie Gilt, had operated a pro-gun Facebook page on which she said her children knew how to shoot, and “even my 4-year-old gets jacked up to target shoot the .22.”
上月发生的一件事，与密尔沃基这起枪击事件惊人地相似。在佛罗里达州，一名正在开车的母亲被后座上四岁的儿子开枪打伤。执法官员称，在那起事件中，手枪也是藏在了驾驶员座位的下方，后来滑到了后面。那名女子叫杰米·吉尔特(Jamie Gilt)。在那之前，她在Facebook上创建了一个支持拥有枪支的页面，并在该页面上称自己的孩子知道怎么开枪，“就连我四岁的儿子都会兴奋地要用 .22口径的枪进行目标射击”。
Everytown for Gun Safety, the gun control group, says that since the start of 2015, at least 342 people in the United States have been accidentally shot by people under age 18.
控枪团体“每座城镇都要维护枪支安全”(Everytown for Gun Safety)称，2015年初以来，美国至少有342人被18岁以下的未成年人不小心开枪击中。
When Ms. Price, a mother of three, was fatally shot in Milwaukee, her mother and her 1-year-old child were also in the car.
普赖斯是三个孩子的母亲。在密尔沃基中弹身亡时，她的母亲和她一岁的孩子也在车里。
“Now I don’t have her no more,” her father, Andre Price, told WISN, a local television station. “I got a knot in my chest.”
“现在我失去了她，”她的父亲安德烈·普赖斯(Andre Price)对当地电视台WISN说。“很心痛。”