The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is out with a list of 58 international audit firms that it has been unable to inspect for at least four years. Those firms all audited companies registered in the United States, and — under American law — must be inspected by the board. The board has tried to arrange joint inspections with regulators from other countries, but a variety of impediments have arisen.
美国公众公司会计监督委员会（Public Company Accounting Oversight Board，简称PCAOB）公布了58家国际审计事务所的名单，该委员会至少已经有四年无法对这些事务所进行检查。这58家事务所都曾在美国注册，根据美国法律，它们必须接受PCAOB的检查。该委员会曾尝试与其他国家的监管机构开展联合检查，但是遭遇了各种障碍。
China, which is forever talking about cooperation but somehow never actually providing much of it, leads the list. There are eight Chinese firms and another eight based in Hong Kong. In some cases, the board says, it has been able to inspect Hong Kong firms, either because they did not audit mainland companies or because no objections were raised even though they did. In others, the Chinese authorities intervened to prevent inspections.
中国高居名单榜首。该国政府总是大谈合作，但不知何故一直都没有做出多少实际行动。在PCAOB的这份名单上，大陆和香港各占了八家。该委员会表示，在某些情况下，它还是可以检查香港的那几家事务所的，这要么是因为它们没有审计大陆公司，要么是它们即使审计了大陆公司，相关方面却未提出任何异议。在其他一些情况下，中国当局进行了干预，阻挠PCAOB的检查。
But for sheer numbers, Europe is the biggest scope of the problem. Forty of the audit firms are based in the European Union, where each country can decide for itself if it wants to be cooperative, and some are distinctly more eager than others to do so.
但是纯粹从数字来看，这个问题在欧洲最为普遍。在这58家审计事务所中，有40家位于欧盟地区；欧盟各国可以自行决定是否跟PCAOB合作，有些国家明显比其他一些积极。
Italy, France and Sweden lead the European list with five uninspected audit firms each, followed by Belgium with four. There are none in Britain, and only one in Germany. The other countries with at least one uninspected audit firm are Austria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Greece. Hungary, Ireland, Luxembourg, Poland, Portugal and Spain.
意大利、法国和瑞典在欧洲国家中名列前茅，各有五家审计事务所没有经过PCAOB的检查，接下来是比利时，有四家。德国只有一家，在英国的公司全都接受了检查。奥地利、塞浦路斯、捷克共和国、丹麦、希腊、匈牙利、爱尔兰、卢森堡、波兰、葡萄牙和西班牙则各自至少有一家审计事务所未经检查。
The two uninspected firms in Latin America are both in Venezuela.
拉丁美洲的两家都在委内瑞拉。
Most of the firms are members of big international groups of accounting firms. That means it is quite likely that some of them participated in audits of American internationals that had operations in the countries. The American firm may have signed the audit, but it was relying on the uninspected affiliate for what could have been critical information.
这些审计事务所大多是大型跨国会计事务所集团的成员。这就意味着，其中一些很可能参与了在这些国家开展业务的美国跨国公司的审计。这种审计虽然算在美国事务所的名下，但它使用了未经检查的子公司提供的信息，而这些信息可能很关键。
Based on their names, PricewaterhouseCoopers leads with 12, followed by Deloitte with 10, KPMG with nine, Ernst and BDO with eight each, Grant Thornton with three and Mazars, which is headquartered in France, with two. There are another six firms whose names do not indicate such an affiliation.
从公司来看，普华永道(PricewaterhouseCoopers)有12家，位居第一，其次是德勤(Deloitte)，有10家，毕马威(KPMG)有九家，安永(Ernst)和德豪(BDO)各有八家，均富(Grant Thornton)有三家，总部设在法国的玛泽(Mazars)有两家。另外六家事务所的名字没有体现出这样的从属关系。
There is no way from the outside to know if an audit firm is doing its job, which is why inspections are crucial. Since the oversight board was established in 2002, it has found a lot of sloppiness and failures to perform basic tests, among American firms. There is some evidence those firms are getting better as a result. The board has found small American firms that were certifying Chinese audits that they basically did not do. And Chinese affiliates of the major firms have audited, and approved, financial statements of Chinese companies that turned out to be fraudulent. That does not prove their audits were badly done — good audits can miss frauds — but it does provide an indication that improvements may be necessary.
一家审计事务所是否照章办事，外界是没有办法知道的，因此检查至关重要。该监督委员会从2002年成立以来，已经发现美国的事务所在开展基本业务时存在大量问题和漏洞。有证据表明，检查促使这些事务所变得越来越严谨。该委员会曾经发现，一些小型美国事务所认证的中国审计中，有一些其实并没有做过。大型事务所中国子公司审计并批准的一些中国企业的财务报表，竟然存在虚假信息。这并不表示它们的审计工作做得不好——良好的审计也未必能发现所有的虚假信息——但这确实是一个迹象，表明存在改进的必要性。