WASHINGTON — The Obama administration on Monday announced one of the strongest actions ever taken by the United States government to fight climate change, a proposed Environmental Protection Agency regulation to cut carbon pollution from the nation’s power plants 30 percent from 2005 levels by 2030.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府于周一宣布了国家环境保护局（Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA）提议的规定，要在2030年之前将美国发电厂造成的碳污染从2005年的水平上减少30%，这是美国政府为应对气候变化所采取的最强有力的行动之一。
The regulation takes aim at the largest source of carbon pollution in the United States, the nation’s more than 600 coal-fired power plants. If it withstands an expected onslaught of legal and legislative attacks, experts say that it could close hundreds of the plants and also lead, over the course of decades, to systemic changes in the American electricity industry, including transformations in how power is generated and used.
这一规定针对的是美国碳污染的首要来源，即美国600多家火力发电厂。专家称，如果在法律和立法上能顶住预料中的攻击，该规定可能会导致数百家火电厂被关闭，还可能在几十年的过程中给美国电力行业带来系统性的变化，包括发电和电力使用方式的变革。
Gina McCarthy, the E.P.A. administrator, unveiled the proposal in a speech Monday morning.
EPA局长吉娜·麦卡锡(Gina McCarthy)在周一早上的讲话中揭晓了该提议。
“Today, climate change — fueled by carbon pollution — supercharges risks not just to our health, but to our communities, our economy, and our way of life,” Ms. McCarthy said.
“如今，因碳污染加剧的气候变化不仅给我们的健康，同时也给我们的社区、经济和生活方式带来了严重的风险，”麦卡锡说。
The regulation is likely to stand as President Obama’s last chance to substantially shape domestic policy and as a defining element of his legacy. The president, who failed to push a sweeping climate change bill through Congress in his first term, is now acting on his own by using his executive authority under the 1970 Clean Air Act to issue the regulation.
该规定可能是奥巴马总统从本质上塑造国内政策的最后机会，也可能是其政绩的决定性要素。在第一个任期内，奥巴马总统未能推动一项彻底的气候变化法案在国会获得通过，如今，他正在以自己的意愿行事，通过动用1970年《清洁空气法》(Clean Air Act)赋予自己的行政权力，发布该规定。
Under the rule, states will be given a wide menu of policy options to achieve the pollution cuts. Rather than immediately shutting down coal plants, states would be allowed to reduce emissions by making changes across their electricity systems — by installing new wind and solar generation or energy-efficiency technology, and by starting or joining state and regional “cap and trade” programs, in which states agree to cap carbon pollution and buy and sell permits to pollute.
根据这一规定，各州将拥有广泛的政策选择，以实现污染削减目标。联邦政府允许各州通过变革各自的电力系统——通过安装新的风能和太阳能发电设备或采用节能技术，以及开始创建或加入州一级或地区性的“碳排放限额交易”计划——减少排放，而不用立即关闭火电厂。在“碳排放限额交易”计划中，各州同意限制碳污染，并买卖污染许可。
In her remarks, Ms. McCarthy repeatedly emphasized the plan’s flexibility.
在讲话中，麦卡锡反复强调该计划的灵活性。
“That’s what makes it ambitious, but achievable. That’s how we can keep our energy affordable and reliable. The glue that holds this plan together — and the key to making it work — is that each state’s goal is tailored to its own circumstances, and states have the flexibility to reach their goal in whatever way works best for them,” she said.
“这正是让它既宏伟又可以实现的地方。这正是我们让能源保持平价和可靠的办法。让这个计划成为一体的胶水——也是让其可行的关键——是各州的目标是根据自己的情况制定的，并且各州有通过不管什么办法，只要是最适合自己的办法实现目标的灵活性，”她说。
Ms. McCarthy also said that the proposal will help the economy, not hurt it.
麦卡锡还表示这个提议会帮助而非伤害经济。
“For over four decades, E.P.A. has cut air pollution by 70 percent and the economy has more than tripled. All while providing the power we need to keep America strong. Climate action doesn’t dull America’s competitive edge — it sharpens it. It spurs ingenuity and innovation,” she said.
“在四十多年里，EPA将空气污染减少了70%，并且经济也增加到了原来的三倍多，提供了我们让美国保持强大所需的力量。气候行动不会削弱美国的竞争优势——只会增强。它会激发创想和革新，”她说。
The E.P.A. estimates that the rule will cost $7.3 billion to $8.8 billion annually, but will lead to economic benefits of $55 billion to $93 billion over the life of the rule, according to a person briefed on the plan.
据一名熟悉该计划的人士称，EPA估计该规定每年的成本在73亿美元（约合456亿元人民币）到88亿美元之间，但在整个有效期内，该规定也会带来价值550亿至930亿美元的经济效益。
Critics complain that the rule will drive up electricity costs, but the E.P.A forecasts that the rule will increase energy efficiency, leading to an average decrease of about 8 percent on electricity bills nationally when the program is fully implemented in 2030.
批评人士抱怨该规定会抬高电力成本，但EPA预计，该规定会提升能源效率，待到2030年计划被全面执行时，应能让全国范围内的电费平均减少大约8%。
The E.P.A. also forecasts that the rule will prevent 2,700 to 6,600 premature deaths and 140,000 to 150,000 asthma attacks. There is no link between carbon pollution and asthma, but the E.P.A. estimates that future coal plant closures will lead to a 25 percent reduction in traditional air pollutants like soot, sulfur and nitrogen, which are linked to respiratory diseases.
EPA还预测该规定会防止2700至6600起早逝案例，以及14万至15万起哮喘发作。碳污染和哮喘之间并无联系，但EPA估计，将来关闭火电厂的举措将使与呼吸系统疾病有关的煤烟、硫和氮等传统空气污染物减少25%。
Ms. McCarthy said that the plan will create demand for designing and building energy-efficient technology at power plants, throughout the electric grid, and in homes and buildings.
麦卡锡说，该计划将创造在发电厂、整个电网以及家庭和各建筑物中设计和创造节能技术的需求。
“All this means more jobs, not less,” she said. She added: “We’ll need tens of thousands of American workers — in construction, transmission, and more — to make cleaner power a reality.”
“这些都意味着更多而非更少的就业岗位，”她说。她还说：“我们将需要数万名美国工人——建筑、运输等领域——来使更清洁的能源成为现实。”
Because burning coal is the largest source of the greenhouse gas emissions that scientists blame for trapping heat in the atmosphere and dangerously warming the planet, the rule is expected to have a powerful environmental impact. It comes on top of a regulation Mr. Obama issued in his first term that sharply increased the required fuel economy of vehicles, the second-largest source of carbon pollution in the United States.
由于燃烧煤炭是最大的温室气体来源，科学家认为温室气体会将热量锁定在大气之中，使地球变暖，从而带来危险。据预计，这个规定将对环境造成重大影响。就在此之前，奥巴马曾于第一任期发布了一项规定，大幅度增加对车辆节油的要求——汽车尾气是美国第二大碳污染来源。
Experts said that the new regulation would set the United States on track to meet its target set forth in a United Nations accord in 2009, when Mr. Obama pledged that the United States would cut its greenhouse gas pollution 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020, and 83 percent by 2050.
专家表示，这项新规定将使美国开始朝着2009年一项联合国条约所设定的目标前进。当时奥巴马承诺，截至2020年，美国将把美国的温室气体污染从2005年的水平降低17%，截至2050年时降低83%。
The E.P.A. estimates that the 30 percent reduction in carbon pollution from power plants will be the equivalent of cancelling carbon pollution from two-thirds of all cars and trucks in America.
EPA预计，将发电厂的碳污染减少30%将等同于消除美国所有汽车和卡车碳污染的三分之二。
Although the rule will target coal-fired power plants, the E.P.A. says it will allow states several years to retire existing coal plants, rather than forcing the immediate shutdown of such plants. The E.P.A. estimates that under the rule, 30 percent of the U.S. electricity mix will still come from coal in 2030, down from about 40 percent today.
虽然这项规定针对的将是以煤炭为燃料的发电厂，但EPA表示，它将给各州几年的时间来关闭现有的煤炭发电厂，而不是强制性地立即关闭这些发电厂。EPA预计，根本这项规定，到2030年，将近30%的美国电力仍将来自煤炭，而如今则约为40%。
On Sunday, environmental advocates praised the proposed rule for its breadth and reach while the coal industry attacked it as a symbol of executive overreach that could wreak economic havoc. Republican campaigns plan to use the rule to attack incumbent Democrats in this fall’s midterm elections.
周日，环保倡议人士对这项提议的影响范围和幅度表示了赞扬，但煤炭行业却认为它象征着过分的行政干预，有可能会引发经济灾难。共和党竞选阵营打算在今年秋季的中期选举中利用该规定来攻击现任民主党人。
“This momentous announcement raises the bar for controlling carbon emissions in the United States,” said Andrew Steer, president of the World Resources Institute, a Washington research organization, adding, “These new standards send a powerful message around the world.”
“这项重要声明提高了美国控制碳排放的水平，”华盛顿研究机构世界资源研究所(World Resources Institute)总裁安德鲁·斯蒂尔(Andrew Steer)说。他还表示，“这些新标准向全世界传达了一条有力的信息。”
Scott Segal, a lawyer with the firm Bracewell & Giuliani, which represents coal companies and plans to sue over the rule, wrote in an email, “Clearly, it is designed to materially damage the ability of conventional energy sources to provide reliable and affordable power, which in turn can inflict serious damage on everything from household budgets to industrial jobs.”
律师事务所布雷斯韦尔&朱利亚尼(Bracewell & Giuliani)的律师斯科特·塞加尔(Scott Segal)是煤炭公司的代理人，他计划对这条规定提起诉讼。他在电子邮件中写道，“很明显，这条规定将对传统能源行业提供可靠和平价电力的能力造成相当大的损害，届时，它将严重破坏从家庭预算到工业领域就业岗位的一切。”