Back in 1987 my Princeton colleague Alan Blinder published a very good book titled “Hard Heads, Soft Hearts.” It was, as you might guess, a call for tough-minded but compassionate economic policy. Unfortunately, what we actually got — especially, although not only, from Republicans — was the opposite. And it’s difficult to find a better example of the hardhearted, softheaded nature of today’s G.O.P. than what happened last week, as Senate Republicans once again used the filibuster to block aid to the long-term unemployed.
时间回到1987年，我在普林斯顿大学(Princeton)的同事艾伦·布林德(Alan Blinder)出了一本好书，名叫《脑冷心热》(Hard Heads, Soft Hearts)。正如你可能预料到的，这本书呼吁采纳坚决但仁慈的经济政策。但不幸的是，我们实际上得到的——特别是来自共和党的，虽然不仅仅来自他们——却恰恰相反。要证明如今共和党心冷脑热的特质，很难找到一个比上周事件更好的例子了——参议院共和党人再一次采用拖延战术阻止对长期失业者进行补助。
What do we know about long-term unemployment in America?
我们对美国的长期失业人口究竟了解多少？
First, it’s still at near-record levels. Historically, the long-term unemployed — those out of work for 27 weeks or more — have usually been between 10 and 20 percent of total unemployment. Today the number is 35.8 percent. Yet extended unemployment benefits, which went into effect in 2008, have now been allowed to lapse. As a result, few of the long-term unemployed are receiving any kind of support.
首先，它仍然维持在接近历史最高点的水平。长期失业人口是指那些持续27周或更久没有就业的人，以往的数据显示，长期失业人口通常占总失业人口的10%到20%。而如今这一比例是35.8%。延长的失业津贴从2008年起生效，然而如今我们却允许它失效。结果就是，没有几位长期失业者现在还能得到任何形式的支持。
Second, if you think the typical long-term unemployed American is one of Those People — nonwhite, poorly educated, etc. — you’re wrong, according to research by the Urban Institute’s Josh Mitchell. Half of the long-term unemployed are non-Hispanic whites. College graduates are less likely to lose their jobs than workers with less education, but once they do they are actually a bit more likely than others to join the ranks of the long-term unemployed. And workers over 45 are especially likely to spend a long time unemployed.
第二，据美国城市研究院(Urban Institute)的乔希·米切尔(Josh Mitchell)调查发现，如果你认为典型长期失业的美国人就是“那些人”——非白人、受教育程度低等等——中的一位，你就错了。一半的长期失业人口是非西语裔的白人。比起受教育程度较低的工作者，大学毕业生失去工作的机率较低，但一旦他们失了业，他们实际上却比其他人更有可能加入长期失业者的队伍。年龄超过45岁的工作者更是有可能会长期失业。
Third, in a weak job market long-term unemployment tends to be self-perpetuating, because employers in effect discriminate against the jobless. Many people have suspected that this was the case, and last year Rand Ghayad of Northeastern University provided a dramatic confirmation. He sent out thousands of fictitious résumés in response to job ads, and found that potential employers were drastically less likely to respond if the fictitious applicant had been out of work more than six months, even if he or she was better qualified than other applicants.
第三，在一个不景气的劳动力市场，长期失业的人群会一直无业下去，因为雇主们实质上会歧视失业者。许多人都曾怀疑这种情况的存在，去年东北大学(Northeastern University)的兰德·加亚德(Rand Ghayad)对此给出了有力的肯定。他发出了几千份虚构的简历求职，发现如果虚构求职人失业超过6个月，即使他或她会比其他求职人更有资格胜任这份工作，潜在雇主们回复申请的可能性也要低得多。
What all of this suggests is that the long-term unemployed are mainly victims of circumstances — ordinary American workers who had the bad luck to lose their jobs (which can happen to anyone) at a time of extraordinary labor market weakness, with three times as many people seeking jobs as there are job openings. Once that happened, the very fact of their unemployment made it very hard to find a new job.
所有这些都向我们指出，长期失业人口主要是客观形势的牺牲品，他们都是普通的美国劳动者，在劳动力市场极其不景气的时刻，在求职人数为空缺职位三倍的情况下，他们不幸失去了工作，这可能发生在任何人身上。一旦这发生了，失业这一事实的本身就让他们很难找到一份新工作。
So how can politicians justify cutting off modest financial aid to their unlucky fellow citizens?
所以，政客们如何能有理由终止向他们不幸的美国同胞们提供菲薄的经济援助呢？
Some Republicans justified last week’s filibuster with the tired old argument that we can’t afford to increase the deficit. Actually, Democrats paired the benefits extension with measures to increase tax receipts. But in any case this is a bizarre objection at a time when federal deficits are not just falling, but clearly falling too fast, holding back economic recovery.
一些共和党人老调重弹，再次提出我们负担不起更多赤字的理由，来为上周的拖延战术辩护。实际上，民主党人在提出延长失业津贴的同时，也提出了增加税收收入的措施。但不论如何，这种反对都显得不合时宜。如今的联邦赤字不仅是在下降，而且很明显下降过快，已经抑制了经济复苏。
For the most part, however, Republicans justify refusal to help the unemployed by asserting that we have so much long-term unemployment because people aren’t trying hard enough to find jobs, and that extended benefits are part of the reason for that lack of effort.
然而，共和党人通常都会为拒绝帮助失业人口找理由，声称我们有那么多长期失业人口，是因为人们找工作不够努力，而延长的失业津贴就是他们不够努力的部分原因。
People who say things like this — people like, for example, Senator Rand Paul — probably imagine that they’re being tough-minded and realistic. In fact, however, they’re peddling a fantasy at odds with all the evidence. For example: if unemployment is high because people are unwilling to work, reducing the supply of labor, why aren’t wages going up?
这么说的人——比如说像参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)那样的人——可能认为，他们这么做是实事求是、从实际出发。然而事实上，他们所兜售的是一个不靠谱的想法，与所有的事实证据相左。比如说：如果失业率居高不下是因为人们不愿意工作，那么劳动力供应的减少，为什么没有导致工资上涨？
But evidence has a well-known liberal bias. The more their economic doctrine fails — remember how the Fed’s actions were supposed to produce runaway inflation? — the more fiercely conservatives cling to that doctrine. More than five years after a financial crisis plunged the Western world into what looks increasingly like a quasi-permanent slump, making nonsense of free-market orthodoxy, it’s hard to find a leading Republican who has changed his or her mind on, well, anything.
但是众所周知，证据都带有自由主义的偏见。他们的经济原则越是失败，保守派就越会强烈地坚守这一原则，还记得美联储采取的行动原本是要带来飞涨的通货膨胀吗？五年多前的一场金融危机让西方世界陷入萧条，这种萧条看起来越来越像是场持久战，从而让正统的自由市场理论沦为无稽之谈，但五年多以后，我们还是很难找到一位改变了想法，或者说有任何思维改变的共和党领导人。
And this imperviousness to evidence goes along with a stunning lack of compassion.
这种对证据的绝对排斥与他们极度缺乏仁慈之心是相符的。
If you follow debates over unemployment, it’s striking how hard it is to find anyone on the Republican side even hinting at sympathy for the long-term jobless. Being unemployed is always presented as a choice, as something that only happens to losers who don’t really want to work. Indeed, one often gets the sense that contempt for the unemployed comes first, that the supposed justifications for tough policies are after-the-fact rationalizations.
如果你关注有关失业问题的辩论，就会发现，要在共和党人中找一位对长期失业者流露哪怕一丝同情的人，都是如此困难，这令人震惊。他们总是把失业表现成一种选择，是一种只会发生在那些并不真正想工作的失败者身上的事。事实上，我们常常有这种感觉，他们先是有了对失业者的轻视，然后才有了为强硬政策找出的所谓理由，作为事后的辩解。
The result is that millions of Americans have in effect been written off — rejected by potential employers, abandoned by politicians whose fuzzy-mindedness is matched only by the hardness of their hearts.
结果就是数以百万计的美国人被活生生地抹去了——被潜在的雇主拒绝，被政客们所抛弃。而这些政客的头脑之浑沌，只有其心肠之硬才能匹配。