WASHINGTON — House and Senate negotiators on Thursday closed in on a budget deal that, while modest in scope, could break the cycle of fiscal crises and brinkmanship that has hampered the economic recovery and driven public opinion of Congress to an all-time low.
华盛顿——美国众议院和参议院谈判者周四在达成预算妥协的方向上又前进了一步。这项妥协尽管程度有限，但或许能打破反复发生财政危机，两党在危机边缘不断角力的循环。这样的循环阻碍了经济复苏，而且致使公众对国会的看法降到了历史低点。
But the leaders of the House and Senate budget committees — Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, and Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington — encountered last-minute resistance from House Democratic leaders who said any deal should be accompanied by an extension of expiring unemployment benefits for 1.3 million workers.
然而众议院和参议院预算委员会的领导人，威斯康星州共和党众议员保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)和华盛顿州民主党参议员帕蒂·默里(Patty Murray)在谈判的最后一刻遭遇了众议院民主党领袖的反对，他们表示达成任何妥协的同时，都必须要为130万名工人延长即将到期的失业福利。
“This isn’t interparty bickering,” said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader. “This is a major policy disagreement.”
“这不是两党间的小争执，”众议院少数党领袖、加利福尼亚州众议员南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)说。“这是重大的政策分歧。”
It was not clear on Thursday how serious a threat the demand posed to a deal largely worked out by Mr. Ryan and Ms. Murray alone. With conservative Republicans in the House likely to balk, Democratic votes will be needed to pass an agreement, and Democrats have not said whether they will make their support contingent on an extension of benefits.
截至周四，尚不清楚这项要求会对基本上由瑞安和默里二人敲定的协议产生多么严重的威胁。由于众议院里立场保守的共和党人在表决时可能会退缩，这项协议如果要获得通过，就需要民主党议员的支持。但民主党众议员还没有透露，他们是否会把延长福利当成投赞成票的先决条件。
Democrats were confident that if they held their ground, Republicans would agree next week to extend unemployment compensation — and Speaker John A. Boehner left open that possibility.
民主党人相信，如果能坚持立场，共和党人下周就会同意延长失业福利。而且，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)并没有排除这种可能性。
“If the president has a plan for extending unemployment, I’ll take a look at it,” he said.
他说，“如果总统有延长失业福利的计划，我会研究研究的。”
The deal would increase revenue by raising some fees and would shift some cuts away from domestic and defense programs, partly alleviating the squeeze of across-the-board spending cuts imposed last year, which are set to worsen in 2014. Spending on defense and domestic programs would rise to about $1 trillion for the current fiscal year from $986 billion, the fiscal 2013 level that remains in effect under the continuing resolution passed in October. Absent a deal, further cuts would go into effect in January, and discretionary spending would be cut to $967 billion for fiscal 2014.
这项妥协可以通过征收一些费用来提高财政收入，也可以使国内和国防开支项目免于一些经费削减，还可以在一定程度上缓解去年实施的全盘开支削减所造成的拮据，按计划全盘开支削减将于2014年加剧。国防和国内项目开支将从当前财年的9860亿美元提高到1万亿美元。上述9860亿美元的标准是2013财年的水平，按照今年10月通过的有效决议，2013财年的上限将继续得到执行。如果没有达成妥协，进一步削减开支的举措将于明年1月生效，2014财年的机动开支就会被削减到9670亿美元。
But the agreement would leave to future negotiations the big issues of curbing future spending increases in the fast-growing entitlement programs and the proper level of tax revenues. It also would not extend unemployment benefits set to expire Dec. 28, or deal with impending cuts to Medicare health care providers.
但是这项协议会把一些重大议题留给未来的谈判解决，包括在快速膨胀的福利计划中约束未来开支的增长，以及税收收入是多少才算适当。这项协议不会延长将于12月28日失效的失业福利，也不会处理联邦医疗保险(Medicare)的医疗服务提供者即将面临的资金削减。
Still, a deal would have a major psychic benefit to an economic recovery that seems to be gaining some momentum. With new “top-line” spending numbers in place for the next two fiscal years, the recurring threat of government shutdowns would recede for a time, providing more certainty to the private sector and room for budget negotiators to reach a broader deal.
然而达成协议对于似乎正在加强的经济复苏势头会产生极大的心理效应。一旦未来两个财年的预算总额能够得到保障，反复出现的政府停摆威胁在未来一段时间将会消退，从而让私营部门感受到更大的确定性，也让预算谈判者有更大的空间取得更广泛的共识。
But both parties clearly have an incentive to reach a final agreement before the House adjourns for the year next Friday. Democrats are eager to alleviate a growing spending squeeze and head off the next round of across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration, set to take effect next month. Republican leaders, anxious to keep the political focus on President Obama’s health care law, want to avert another budget showdown — and possible government shutdown — on Jan. 15, when parts of the government will again run out of money.
但是很明显，两党都有动机在下周五之前取得最终的协议，众议院将于下周五休会，明年才会重开。民主党迫切地想缓解日益加重的拮据状况，防止出现下一轮全盘性的开支削减，即会于下个月生效的“自动减赤”(sequestration)。而共和党领袖则焦急地想要把关注点放在奥巴马总统的医改法案上，他们希望避免再发生一次预算对决，那有可能会在1月15日再次造成政府关闭，届时一些政府部门又将无米下锅。
“I am hopeful Paul Ryan and Patty Murray are going to come to an agreement that can pass the House and the Senate,” Mr. Boehner said.
博纳说，“我感觉保罗·瑞安和帕蒂·默里会达成能在参众两院获得通过的协议。”
The budgets passed out of the House and Senate this spring were vastly different in policy prescriptions over the long term, but only $90 billion apart in the spending at Congress’s annual discretion. Once negotiators gave up trying to reconcile House Republican efforts to drastically change Medicare and Senate Democrats’ push to raise taxes to finance new spending on infrastructure and education, the search for a more modest deal became far easier.
今年春天参议院和众议院分别通过的预算案，在长期政策规划方面存在巨大分歧，但在可由国会支配的年度开支上，只有900亿美元的差距。众议院共和党人想努力对联邦医疗保险进行大幅改革，但参议院民主党人则极力推动增税，进而为基础设施项目和教育筹集新的资金。谈判者放弃调和两党之间的这种分歧之后，开始寻找覆盖面较小的协议，因而难度小了很多。
“This is a three-and-a-half-trillion-dollar budget,” said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma and one of the budget negotiators. “The idea that you can’t find either cuts or sources of funding in something that large to split the difference on $90 billion — there’s a way. There’s enough low-hanging fruit to give us a reasonable top line for ’14 and ’15.”
俄克拉荷马州共和党众议员汤姆·科尔(Tom Cole)参与了预算谈判。他说，“预算规模有3.5万亿美元。有人以为从这么大的金额里，没办法削减某项开支，或不知从哪里找到经费，来弥合这900亿美元的分歧——可是总有办法。好摘的果子足够多，能让我们在14年和15年得到合理的预算总额。”
But the deal taking shape will be tough for members of both parties to swallow.
然而即将成形的妥协方案，对于两党成员来说都十分难以接受。
The fees that airlines pay to the Transportation Security Administration will almost certainly go up — a provision already being attacked by airline lobbyists and conservative activists as a ticket tax hike.
航空公司缴纳给运输安全管理局(Transportation Security Administration)的费用几乎肯定会上升。这项规定已经受到了航空业游说者和保守派活动人士的抨击，形容这是大幅增长机票税。
Mr. Ryan is pressing hard for an increase in the contributions that federal workers pay for their pensions — by as much as $120 billion over 10 years.
瑞安正在大力推动一项举措，要求提高联邦公务人员缴纳的养老费金额，最高会在10年时间里提高1200亿美元。
Such workers are already contending with a three-year pay freeze and unpaid furloughs from sequestration, and they have powerful advocates in Representatives Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat, and Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee.
这批公务人员的薪水已经被冻结了三年，并经历了自动减赤带来的无薪休假。不过，他们在国会也有一些有力的代言人，如来自马里兰州的众议院民主党二号人物斯坦尼·霍耶(Steny Hoyer)，以及众议院预算委员会资深成员、马里兰州民主党人克里斯·范霍伦(Chris Van Hollen)。
“The only working people who have paid a price to reduce the deficit so far are federal workers,” Mr. Hoyer said.
霍耶说，“到目前为止，为削减赤字而付出代价的唯一的工薪阶层，就是联邦公务人员。”