SEOUL, South Korea — An American citizen who said he had illegally entered North Korea held a news conference in the capital, Pyongyang, on Sunday during which he offered a lengthy criticism of the United States’ policies and human rights conditions and said that he would seek asylum in Venezuela.
韩国首尔——周日，一名自称非法进入朝鲜的美国公民在朝鲜首都平壤举行了一次新闻发布会。他在会上对美国的政策和人权状况进行了冗长的批评，并称自己将前往委内瑞拉寻求庇护。
The man identified himself as Arturo Pierre Martinez, 29, from El Paso and said that he had entered North Korea by crossing the Yalu River from China. A statement he read during the news conference was published by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency.
此人自称是阿图罗·皮埃尔·马丁内斯(Arturo Pierre Martinez)，今年29岁，来自埃尔帕索。他说自己是从中国渡过鸭绿江来到朝鲜的。朝鲜官方通讯社朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)发布了他在新闻发布会上宣读的声明。
Mr. Martinez entered North Korea in November, two days after the United States director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., arrived in Pyongyang to seek the release of two Americans, Matthew Todd Miller and Kenneth Bae, according to CNN, which cited a North Korean statement. Mr. Miller and Mr. Bae had been held in the North for “anti-state crimes” after entering the country on tourist visas.
马丁内斯于今年11月进入朝鲜。CNN援引朝鲜的一项声明称，此前两天，美国国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)刚刚来到平壤，希望争取美国人马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)和肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)的获释。米勒和肯尼斯·裴持旅游签证进入朝鲜，后来因为“颠覆国家罪”被朝鲜扣留。
Mr. Martinez said he had tried in vain to swim across the Han River into North Korea from South Korea. In September, the South Korean military said it had arrested an American who was trying to swim into the North, but did not identify him. At the time, South Korean news media reported that the American had told investigators that he intended to meet the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.
马丁内斯表示，他曾试图从韩国游过汉江进入朝鲜，但最终失败。9月，韩国军方表示逮捕了一名试图游入朝鲜的美国人，但并未指明他的身份。当时，韩国媒体报道称，这名美国人曾告诉调查人员，他打算与朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)见面。
Mr. Martinez’s mother told CNN that her son was sent back to the United States from South Korea and was placed in a psychiatric hospital. She said her son had bipolar disorder.
马丁内斯的母亲告诉CNN，她的儿子被人从韩国送回美国，然后被送进了一家精神病医院，并称他患有躁郁症。
“He is very smart and he got the court to let him out, and instead of coming home to us, he bought a ticket and left for China,” his mother, Patricia Eugenia Martinez, told CNN.
他的母亲帕特里夏·欧亨尼娅·马丁内斯(Patricia Eugenia Martinez)告诉CNN，“他非常聪明，让法院放他出来，但他没有回家，而是买机票去了中国。”
In a statement released Sunday, the State Department’s deputy spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said: “We are aware of reports that a U.S. citizen crossed into North Korea, and we stand ready to provide all consular assistance. The welfare and safety of U.S. citizens abroad is one of our top priorities.”
在周日公布的声明中，国务院副发言人玛丽·哈夫(Marie Harf)表示，“我们了解了有关美国公民越界进入朝鲜的报道，我们已经准备好提供各项领事协助。保障境外美国公民的福祉和安全是我们的首要任务之一。”
Ms. Harf did not offer any information about Mr. Martinez’s case, citing “privacy considerations,” but she did repeat the State Department’s recommendation against all travel by American citizens to North Korea.
哈夫没有提供有关马丁内斯情况的信息，称这是“出于隐私考虑”。但她重申了美国国务院对美国公民的建议，即不要前往朝鲜旅游。
During the Pyongyang news conference, Mr. Martinez said he apologized for illegally entering North Korea “in such a foolish way.” But he said he was “extremely grateful for having been pardoned,” indicating that he was not facing criminal charges.
在平壤新闻发布会期间，马丁内斯表示，他为以“如此愚蠢的方式”非法进入朝鲜的行为道歉。但他表示，他“已经获得宽恕，对此非常感激”，并表明他不会面临刑事指控。