WASHINGTON — One day last fall, former President George W. Bush called Mel Sembler, a Republican donor from Florida who had served as his ambassador to Italy. Mr. Sembler had just had a pacemaker implanted into his chest, and his wife had also recently had surgery. Mr. Bush wanted to check on how they were faring.
华盛顿——去年秋季的一天，美国前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)给梅尔·森布莱(Mel Sembler)打了电话。森布莱是佛罗里达州共和党人，曾在布什政府期间担任驻意大利大使，他刚刚植入了心脏起搏器，妻子也在不久前做过一次手术。布什想问候他们的恢复状况。
But after the health inquiries, Mr. Bush abruptly interjected. “O.K., Mel,” he said, “is Jeb going to run?”
但在嘘寒问暖之后，布什突然转换了话题。“好吧，梅尔，”他说，“杰布(Jeb)会竞选总统吗？”
“Wait a minute,” Mr. Sembler recalled answering. “You’re asking me is Jeb going to run? He’s your brother.”
“等一下，”森布莱回忆自己当时说。“你问我杰布会不会竞选总统？他可是你弟弟。”
It was a lighthearted exchange, yet also revealing. As former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida gears up for a possible campaign for the presidency, he is seen as the brother of the last Republican to live in the White House and therefore, in some ways, the second coming of George W. Bush. But the reality is the Bush brothers are not especially close.
这段交谈轻松风趣，但也引人深思。杰布·布什曾任佛罗里达州前州长，有可能参加新一届总统竞选。在人们眼中，他是上一次入主白宫的共和党人的弟弟，因此，从某些角度而言，也就代表着乔治·W·布什的卷土重来。但现实情况是，两兄弟的关系说不上亲密无间。
While loving and supportive of each other, the two brothers do not talk that often, according to family intimates. Seven years apart in age, they travel in different circles and have distinct political networks. The older brother has been a vocal advocate of a Jeb Bush campaign but, like everyone else, reads tea leaves about whether he will run. Indeed, before Jeb Bush announced that he would explore a campaign, the former president confided to associates privately, “I may be the last one to know.”
了解布什家族的人说，虽然两兄弟钟爱并支持对方，但并不是经常交谈。两人年龄相差七岁，在不同的圈子走动，政治人脉网的交集也不多。哥哥一直发声支持杰布·布什参加竞选，但是像其他人一样，对于杰布是否真的会参选，他也说不准。事实上，在杰布·布什宣布自己将尝试一下参加竞选时，乔治私下对同伴说：“我可能是最后一个知道这事的。”
On issues, the two certainly share a similar outlook and philosophy. While other Republicans repudiated aspects of the last Bush presidency, Jeb never did. “It’s just until death do us part,” he told an interviewer who tried to get him to disagree with his brother. In other ways, though, the 43rd president and the potential 45th president are a curious study in fraternal contrasts — in temperament, in style, in the paths they have chosen in life, in the ways they think and communicate and lead.
对于各种问题，两兄弟肯定有着相似的世界观和宗旨。尽管其他共和党人否定了布什担任总统后期的某些做法，但杰布从来没有这么做过。“我永远支持他，可以说至死方休，”他表示，当时一个采访者试图让他否定哥哥的做法。不过在其他方面，第43任总统和这位45任总统宝座角逐者之间存在着相当有趣的兄弟反差——在性情、风格、他们选择的人生道路，以及思考、沟通和领导的方式上。
“You come away amazed that these two guys could be so different and be brothers,” said Jim Towey, a former Florida official who became so close to Jeb Bush that their families spent Thanksgivings together and who went on to work in George W. Bush’s White House directing faith-based initiatives. “I love them both. But they’re just very different people.”
“你会感到惊讶，这两兄弟之间竟能如此不同，”前佛罗里达州官员吉姆·托维(Jim Towey)说，他与杰布·布什过从甚密，到了两家人一起过感恩节的程度，而且他在乔治·W·布什担任总统期间分管信仰方面的工作。“这两兄弟我都喜欢。但他们确实截然不同。”
The oldest two sons of George Bush, the 41st president, George W. and Jeb share many traits. Both are deeply religious, schooled in politics, enamored of sports. They are punctual and impatient, rushing through activities, like golf, where others prefer to linger. Both worship their father. Both are conservative on issues like abortion and gun rights while pushing their party away from orthodoxy in areas like education and immigration.
第41任总统乔治·布什(George Bush)的长子乔治·W和次子杰布之间有很多共同点。两人都笃信宗教、深谙政治之道、热衷体育运动。他们都很守时，容易不耐烦，在别人更喜欢悠闲进行的运动中表现得很活跃，比如高尔夫。两人都崇拜父亲。而且对于堕胎和持枪权这样的问题，两人都是保守派，但在教育和移民领域，他们又推动共和党远离传统做法。
Yet watching them together might confuse the uninitiated. George, 68, likes to work a room. He teases and needles aides, lawmakers or reporters until he gets a rise. He talks about issues in broad strokes, believes in delegating and sometimes mangles his English.
然而，他们在一起时表现出来的反差，可能会让不知情的人感到奇怪。乔治68岁，喜欢在一屋子的人中穿梭社交。他挑逗、招惹助手、国会议员或记者，往往会激怒他们。他谈问题比较笼统，认为下放权力是好事，有时候词不达意。
Several inches taller, Jeb, 61, reads footnotes, emails frenetically and talks in full, wonky paragraphs. But in political settings, he sometimes seems to eye the exit, calculating how to get from here to there with the least fuss. “Former President Bush is much more instantly gregarious, a bigger personality,” said Ari Fleischer, George W. Bush’s first White House press secretary. “When he walks into a room, he just takes it over, by style and by charm. Jeb is more intellectual, more pensive and more articulate.”
61岁的杰布比他高半头，做事谨慎周密，非常喜欢使用电邮，说话时会一板一眼地讲一大段。但在政治场合中，他有时给人一种“找出口”的感觉，就是算计着如何在麻烦最小的情况下从这里走到出口。“前总统布什更具社交魅力，和人混熟的速度远远更快，”阿里·弗莱舍(Ari Fleischer)，乔治·W·布什的第一个白宫新闻秘书说。“当他走进一个房间，那种风度和魅力自然就会让他成为全场中心。杰布更加理性，更加凝重，讲话更加清晰明确。”
Jeb Bush has a quick wit, Mr. Fleischer added, but it is softer than his brother’s.
杰布·布什很有急智，弗莱舍说，但比他哥哥的那种急智更加柔和。
“Jeb is very much a policy wonk and comes across that way,” he said. “Former President Bush was much more big picture, strong leader, defined things in immediately clear moral terms.”
“杰布总体上是一板一眼的政策专家，给人的感觉也是那样，”他说。“前总统布什则是着眼大局、坚强有力的领导者，会用黑白分明的道德界限来定义东西。”
They come at politics from different angles. “Public service seems to be a calling for George Senior and George Junior, whereas for Jeb it is about a mission,” said Clint Bolick, who wrote a book on immigration with Jeb Bush. “It’s about policy and ideas. I never really got the impression that either his dad or his brother were really motivated by ideas and policies. For Jeb, politics is a means to an end rather than an end in itself.”
他们从不同的角度看待政治。“对于老布什和小布什总统，公共服务似乎是个任务。但对于杰布，它是一项使命，”克林特·伯里克(Clint Bolick)说，他与杰布·布什合写了一本关于移民的书。“事关政策和理念。我从来没有觉得他的父兄真正着眼于理念和政策。对于杰布而言，政治是用来达成目的的手段，而不是目的本身。”
Their father’s successful 1988 presidential campaign whetted George’s political appetite. After his father lost the presidency four years later, he embarked on his own campaign in 1994 against the popular governor of Texas, a move that surprised his family even as Jeb was already gearing up to run for governor of Florida. While neither admitted it, many detected a quiet competitiveness. Few expected George to win, but he pulled off the upset while Jeb went down to a surprise defeat.
老布什1988年当选美国总统，激发了乔治的政治雄心。四年后父亲卸任，1994年，他自己开始竞选，对阵人气很高的德克萨斯州州长。此举让家人感到惊讶，而当时杰布已经在为竞选佛罗里达州州长做准备了。虽然两人都不承认，但很多人都觉得兄弟俩在暗中较劲。几乎没有人看好乔治，但他却获胜了，而杰布出人意料地落败了。
The split result provoked a moment of sibling friction as George expressed frustration that his parents were focused more on Florida. “Why do you feel bad about Jeb?” he asked his father in an exchange later described by his aunt, Nancy Ellis. “Why don’t you feel good about me?”
这样的结果引发了手足之间的摩擦。父母更关心佛罗里达州的选举，乔治对此表达了不满。“为什么你为杰布感觉难过？”他问父亲，据他的姑妈南希·埃利斯(Nancy Ellis)后来透露。“为什么你不为我感到高兴？”
As Jeb rebounded to win Florida’s governorship in 1998, George W. Bush was preparing his own run for the White House — one that would climax in the crucible of Jeb’s Florida two years later. On election night, when it looked as if Al Gore had won Florida, an emotional Jeb hugged George and apologized for letting him down. He was premature. “Back from the ashes,” Jeb called out as more returns came in. For the next five weeks, Jeb’s Florida held the world in suspense until the Supreme Court ended a recount with George ahead.
1998年，杰布再次竞选佛罗里达州州长，这次他成功了，当时乔治·W·布什正在准备自己的总统竞选——两年后，这场严酷的考验在杰布执掌的佛罗里达州达到高潮。大选之夜，阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)在佛罗里达州获胜的苗头出现时，情绪激动的杰布拥抱乔治，为令他失望而道歉。但这时胜负还没见分晓。随着更多的选票涌入，杰布喊道，“浴火重生了”。接下来的五周，杰布的佛罗里达州的投票结果成了一个谜，最后最高法院宣布，重新计票的结果是乔治领先。
The recount sealed their relationship again, but the new president spent more time with other siblings during his White House years. Marvin, nicknamed “Marvelous,” went to the White House to watch sports and spent weekends at Camp David. Dorothy Bush Koch, their sister, visited often. Jeb was spotted mainly during holidays or governors’ conferences.
这次重新计票再次稳固了他们的关系，但在乔治的白宫岁月中，他与其他兄弟姊妹的相处时间更多一些。绰号“神奇马文”(Marvelous)的马文(Marvin)会前往白宫观看体育比赛，并在戴维营过周末。妹妹多萝西·布什·科赫(Dorothy Bush Koch)经常去白宫。杰布则主要在节假日或州长会议期间到访。
Now, with both out of office, some close to the family say any competitiveness seems to have ebbed. Any personal distance is more about Jeb’s natural reserve, intimates say. Other family members tell friends that they do not hear from Jeb often, either, except in staccato five- or six-word replies to emails.
现在，两人都已经卸任，熟悉这个家族的人说，兄弟之间似乎完全不较劲了。两人的距离感主要是杰布天生沉默寡言的性情造成的，密友们说。家族的其他成员告诉朋友，除了五、六个字长、不成句子的电邮回复之外，他们也不常接到杰布的讯息。