AMERICA’S infatuation with the World Cup came at the perfect moment, illuminating the principle that you can lose and still advance.
美国对世界杯的痴迷来得正是时候，这正是对一个原则的写照：你可以失败，但仍能前进。
Once our nation saw itself as the undefeatable cowboy John Wayne. Now we bask in the prowess of the unstoppable goalie Tim Howard, a biracial kid from New Jersey with Tourette’s syndrome.
我国人曾把自己看作是无往不胜的牛仔约翰·韦恩(John Wayne)。如今我们沉浸在不可阻挡的守门员蒂姆·霍华德(Tim Howard)的高超技艺之中，这个混血儿来自新泽西州，还有抽动秽语综合征(Tourette’s syndrome)。
With our swaggering and sanguine image deflated by epic unforced errors, Americans are playing defense, struggling to come to grips with a world where we can no longer dictate all the terms, win all the wars and lead all the charges.
随着我们大摇大摆的乐观形象随着非外加因素导致的巨大失误而泄气，美国人正在采取防守措施，试图在一个我们不再能指挥一切、赢得所有战争，以及领导所有变革的世界中找到自己的位置。
“The Fourth of July was always a celebration of American exceptionalism,” said G.O.P. pollster Frank Luntz. “Now it’s a commiseration of American disappointment.”
“7月4日曾一直是庆祝美国卓异主义的日子，”共和党民意调查员弗兰克·伦兹(Frank Luntz)说。“如今，这是一个怜悯美国的失望的日子。”
From Katrina to Fallujah, we’re less the Shining City Upon a Hill than the House of Broken Toys.
从卡特里娜到费卢杰，我们越来越不像山巅闪光之城，而更像破碎玩具之屋。
For the first time perhaps, hope is not as much a characteristic of American feelings.
也许这是有史以来的第一次：希望在美国人的情感中已不再那么具有特征性。
Are we winners who have been through a rough patch? Or losers who have soured our sturdy and spiritual DNA with too much food, too much greed, too much narcissism, too many lies, too many spies, too many fat-cat bonuses, too many cat videos on the evening news, too many Buzzfeed listicles like “33 Photos Of Corgi Butts,” and too much mindless and malevolent online chatter?
我们是度过一时困难的赢家呢？还是丧失了我们强壮精神DNA的输家？导致这个丧失的，是太多的食品，太多的贪婪，太多的自爱，太多的谎话，太多的间谍，太多的阔佬拿奖金，晚间新闻上太多的猫咪视频，像“33张矮脚狗屁股照”这样的、太多的Buzzfeed无聊清单，以及太多的不动脑子的恶意在线聊天。
Are we still the biggest and baddest? Or are we forever smaller, stingier, dumber, less ambitious and more cynical? Have we lost control of our not-so-manifest destiny?
我们仍是最大的和最坏的吗？还是我们正不可逆地变得更渺小、更吝啬、更愚蠢，少有志气却玩世不恭？我们失去了控制自己的不那么昭昭的命运的能力了吗？
Once we had Howard Baker, who went against self-interest for the common good. Now we have Ted Cruz. Once we had Louis Zamperini, an Olympic runner whose fortitude in a Japanese P.O.W. camp was chronicled in Laura Hillenbrand’s book “Unbroken.” Now we’ve broken Iraq, liberating it to be a draconian state run on Sharia law, full of America-hating jihadists who were too brutal even for Al Qaeda.
我们曾有过霍华德·贝克(Howard Baker)，他为了共同利益而反对谋私利。而如今我们有泰德·克鲁兹（Ted Cruz，来自德克萨斯州的参议员，译注）。我们曾有过奥运长跑健将路易斯·赞佩里尼(Louis Zamperini)，他在日本战俘营的坚强不屈在劳拉·希伦布兰德的《绝不屈服》一书中有详细描写。如今我们把伊拉克搞得一团糟，将其解放了，却让它成为奉行伊斯兰教法的残暴国家，充满了憎恶美国人的圣战者，就连基地组织都认为这些人太野蛮。
We’re a little bit scared of our own shadow. And, sadly, we see ourselves as a people who can never understand one another. We’ve given up on the notion that we can cohere, even though the founders forged America by holding together people with deep differences.
我们有点害怕我们自己的影子。可悲的是，我们把自己看作是一群永远无法相互理解的人。我们已经放弃了我们可以凝聚的想法，虽然创建者们打造美国是把有深刻差异的人带到一起来。
A nation of immigrants watched over by the Statue of Liberty — with a government unable to pass immigration reform despite majority support — sees protesters take to the streets to keep Hispanic children trying to cross the border from being housed in their communities.
一个在自由女神保护下的移民国家，却有一个不让移民改革法通过的政府，虽然该法得到多数人的支持，人们在这个国家看到抗议者走上街头，阻止他们的社区安置试图穿越边境的西语裔儿童。
Andrew Kohut, who has polled for Gallup and the Pew Research Center for over four decades, calls the mood “chronic disillusionment.” He said that in this century we have had only three brief moments when a majority of Americans said they were satisfied with the way things were going: the month W. took office, right after the 9/11 attacks and the month we invaded Iraq.
为盖洛普(Gallup)和皮尤研究中心做民意调查达四十多年的安德鲁·科胡特称这种情绪为“慢性失望症”。他说，本世纪以来，我们只有过三次大多数美国人说他们对事情发展方向满意的短暂时刻：小布什总统上任的那个月，9/11袭击之后，再就是我们入侵伊拉克的那个月。
The old verities seem quaint. If you work hard and play by the rules, you’ll lose out to those guys who can wire computers to make bets on Wall Street faster than the next guy to become instant multimillionaires. Our quiet traditional virtues bow to our noisy visceral divisions, while churning technology is swiftly remolding the national character in ways that are still a blur. Boldness is often chased away by distraction, confusion, hesitation and fragmentation.
旧日的真理看来已有点离奇。如果你努力工作，按照规矩做事，你会比以下一个成为即时千万富翁的人还要快的速度，输给那些靠玩弄计算机接线在华尔街下赌注的人。我们安静的传统美德输给了我们喧闹的、发自内腑的分裂感，而腾飞的技术，以令人眼化目眩的形式，在迅速地重塑着这个国家的性格。敢于冒险的精神常常被分心、困惑、犹豫和分裂驱散。
Barack Obama vowed to make government cool again, but young people, put off by the dysfunction in our political, financial, military and social institutions, are eschewing government jobs. Idealism is swamped by special interests. The middle class is learning to do more with less. The president, sort of the opposite.
贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)曾发誓要让政府变得更酷，但是因我们的政治、经济、军事和社会体制的功能障碍而烦恼的年轻人们，正远离政府的工作岗位。理想主义被特权利益淹没。中产阶层要学会用更少的钱办更多的事。而总统呢，却有点正相反。
“The world sees us as having gone from a president who did too much to a president who does too little,” said Richard Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations.
美国外交关系委员会主席理查德·哈斯(Richard Haass)说，“世界看到我们从一个做得太多的总统过渡到一个做的太少的总统。”
David Axelrod, the president’s Pygmalion, mused: “Reagan significantly changed the trajectory of the country for better and worse. But he restored a sense of clarity. Bush and Cheney were black and white, and after them, Americans wanted someone smart enough to get the nuances and deal with complexities. Now I think people are tired of complexity and they’re hungering for clarity, a simpler time. But that’s going to be hard to restore in the world today.”
给总统充当皮格马利翁式人物的戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)若有所思地说道：“里根极大地改变了这个国家的轨迹，不管是好还是坏。但是，他恢复了一种清晰感。布什和切尼时代黑白分明，他们之后，美国人希望有一个足够聪明的人，能懂得细微差别，处理复杂问题。现在我觉得，人们对复杂问题感到厌倦，他们渴望清晰，想回到一个更简单的时代。但是，在现今的世界，那将是一种难以恢复的情况。”
Young people are more optimistic than their rueful elders, especially those in the technology world. They are the anti-Cheneys, competitive but not triumphalist. They think of themselves as global citizens, not interested in exalting America above all other countries.
年轻人比他们沮丧的长辈们更乐观，尤其是那些在技术领域工作的人。他们与切尼相反，虽具有竞争性，但不是必胜信念者。他们把自己看成为世界公民，对把美国置于所有其他国家之上不感兴趣。