WASHINGTON —  It was not obvious to the National Security Agency a dozen years ago that Angela Merkel, a rising star as the leader of the Christian Democratic Union, was a future chancellor of Germany.
华盛顿——12年前，国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）还没有明显地认识到，冉冉升起的新星、基督教民主联盟(Christian Democratic Union)领袖安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)将会成为德国的总理。
But that did not matter.
不过，这一点并不重要。
The N.S.A., in a practice that dated back to the depths of the Cold War and has never ended, was recording her conversations and those of a range of leaders in Germany and elsewhere, storing them in colossal computer databases that could be searched later, if the need arose. It is unclear how often they searched the database for her conversations, if at all.
NSA一直在记录德国和其他国家一些领袖人物的对话，将谈话内容存入庞大的电脑数据库，日后如有需要，便可对这些数据库进行查询。这种做法可追溯至冷战局势最紧张的时期，一直持续到现在。目前尚不清楚他们有没有查询过存储默克尔对话内容的数据库，查询过的话，频率又有多高。
But once she became the country’s leader, everything she talked about on her personal cellphone — like her support of the Afghan war, the efforts of European allies to halt Iran’s nuclear program, and Germany’s central role in quelling the European financial crisis — took on greater importance for the American eavesdroppers.
然而，对美方窃听者而言，自从默克尔当上德国领导人之后，她在私人手机上谈到的一切，比如对阿富汗战争的支持、欧洲盟友阻止伊朗核计划的努力以及德国在抑制欧洲金融危机中发挥的核心作用，都变得更加重要了。
How the N.S.A. continued to track Ms. Merkel as she ascended to the top of Germany’s political apparatus illuminates previously undisclosed details about the way the secret spy agency casts a drift net to gather information from America’s closest allies. The phone monitoring is hardly limited to the leaders of countries like Germany, and also includes their top aides and the heads of opposing parties. It is all part of a comprehensive effort to gain an advantage over other nations, both friend and foe.
在默克尔升任德国政治机构最高领导人之后，NSA继续对她进行监听，这一做法揭示了一些此前未得披露的细节，涉及这个秘密间谍机构如何布下流动网络，以便从美国最亲密的盟国那里收集信息。电话窃听的对象绝不只是像德国这样的国家的领导人，还包括他们的高级助手和反对派领导人。这些都是美国一项全面行动的一部分，目的是获得相对于其他国家的优势，不管这些国家是敌是友。
What the United States has learned from Ms. Merkel’s calls since 2002, the year when surveillance on her began, according to a database described last week in the German magazine Der Spiegel, remains unknown. But no one has denied that she was being monitored.
德国杂志《明镜》周刊(Der Spiegel)上周提到的那个数据库表明，美国是从2002年开始监听默克尔的。目前尚不清楚，美国从默克尔的电话通话中获得了什么信息。不过，没人否认她曾经遭受持续监听。
In testimony to Congress on Tuesday, the director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper Jr., gave only the roughest sketch of the size of the N.S.A.’s surveillance program, but suggested that the leader of the United States’ most powerful European ally was a single fish in a very big sea.
周二在国会作证时，国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)只是大致介绍了NSA监视项目的规模，但他暗示，美国这个最强大欧洲盟国的领导人只是监视项目当中的沧海一粟。
“We’re talking about a huge enterprise here with thousands and thousands of individual requirements,” he said, using a phrase that appeared to mean individual surveillance targets. Mr. Clapper said that the United States spies on foreign leaders and other officials to see “if what they’re saying gels with what’s actually going on,” and how the policies of other countries “impact us across a whole range of issues.”
“我们说的是一件庞大的工作，有成千上万个单独的要求，”他说。他的表述似乎是指单独的监视目标。克拉珀说，美国之所以监视外国领导人和其他官员，目的是验明“他们的说法是否与实际情况相符”，以及其他国家的政策如何“在众多问题上影响我们”。
German political and intelligence officials went to the White House on Wednesday looking for answers to some of the questions the administration has been reluctant to discuss, and eager to use the incident to broker a far closer intelligence-sharing agreement with Washington that, among other things, would end the surveillance of its leaders.
周三，德国政界和情报界官员前往白宫，希望为奥巴马政府一直不愿讨论的部分问题求得答案。他们急于以此事为契机，与华盛顿通过谈判达成一项更加紧密的情报共享协议。除其他内容外，该协议将终止对德国领导人的监视。
If put into effect, such an arrangement could begin to dismantle a system that has grown ever larger, and more sophisticated, during a decade in which supercomputers and the algorithms used to search vast databases have put the N.S.A. far ahead of rival intelligence services. President Obama has asked whether the technology has outrun common sense, and the Merkel episode has raised in a very public way the question of whether the benefits of spying on friends outweighs the damage if such spying becomes known.
如果生效，这样一份协议可能会逐步废除一个在过去10年中变得越来越大、越来越复杂的体系。在这10年里，用于查询海量数据库的超级计算机和算法让NSA得以遥遥领先于竞争对手的情报机构。奥巴马总统曾经发问，相关技术是否超越了常识，而默克尔事件也以非常公开的方式提出了一个问题，也就是说，监视友人的行动带来的利益，是否大于行动曝光造成的损害。
Even after the flood of information about surveillance operations made public by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor, American officials are still loath to speak in detail about eavesdropping on friendly governments. But former officials with knowledge of the system described an intelligence apparatus with both a voracious appetite and a growing ability to warehouse huge amounts of data.
即便是在NSA前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)公开了大量信息之后，美国官员依然不愿细谈对友好政府的监听。但了解该体系的一些前任官员表示，NSA是一个胃口贪婪且收集海量数据的能力日渐增强的情报机构。
The N.S.A. tries to gather cellular and landline phone numbers — often obtained from American diplomats — for as many foreign officials as possible. The contents of the phone calls are stored in computer databases that can regularly be searched using keywords.
NSA尽量收集外国官员的移动电话和固定电话号码，这些号码经常都是从美国外交官那里得来的。通话内容被存储在电脑数据库中，可以用关键词进行定期查询。
“They suck up every phone number they can in Germany,” said one former intelligence official.
一名前情报官员说，“在德国，他们把能够获取的所有号码一网打尽。”
The databases are different from those housing telephone “metadata” — information about phone numbers on each end of a call and the call’s length — to find links between terrorism suspects. “Metadata is only valuable if you are trying to track the activities of a terrorist or a spy,” said the former American intelligence official.
这些数据库不同于存储电话“元数据”、旨在寻找恐怖主义嫌疑人之间关联的数据库，元数据指的是与通话各方的电话号码和通话时长相关的信息。前述官员说，“只有在你设法追踪一名恐怖分子或间谍的活动时，元数据才有价值。”
By comparison, allied leaders are low-level priorities. In the “National Intelligence Priorities Framework,” a matrix approved by the president and updated regularly, information on members of Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups, the whereabouts of nuclear weapons in Pakistan or North Korea, or the conversations of nuclear scientists in Iran are all front-burner intelligence issues. Ranked just below them are questions about the leadership of adversaries, like Russia, China or Iran, or the state of their economies.
相比之下，窃听盟国领导人并不是需要优先处理的要务。根据“国家情报优先框架”(National Intelligence Priorities Framework)，与基地组织(Al Qaeda)及其他恐怖组织成员相关的信息、巴基斯坦和朝鲜核武器的下落，还有伊朗核专家的对话，都属于最紧急的情报议题。仅次于这个级别的，是和俄罗斯、中国或伊朗等非友好国家的领导人或经济状况有关的问题。“国家情报优先框架”是经美国总统批准的一个框架结构，会定期更新。
American spy agencies determine how much manpower and resources they can devote to a “target” based on guidelines laid out in the matrix, and each subject is assigned a number from zero to five, with five being the lowest priority level.
美国情报机构会根据该框架列明的方针来决定自己要为某个目标动用多少人力和资源，每个目标都被分配了从零到五的编号，五级是最低的优先级别。
But as one former intelligence official put it, “even a low-priority target might be monitored if it’s easy to do.”
不过，正如一名前情报官员所说，“如果易于执行的话，优先级别低的目标也可能受到监视。”
At the N.S.A.’s headquarters at Fort Meade, Md., analysts pore over the transcripts of the phone calls and write reports, stamped “top secret,” that are distributed to officials across the government. The most intense interest in the reports is at the State Department, the Treasury, the other intelligence agencies and the National Security Council, former officials said.
在马里兰州米德堡的NSA总部，分析师们聚精会神地阅读通话记录文本，撰写报告，然后给报告盖上“绝密”印章，分发到政府各部门官员的手中。一些前官员表示，对报告最感兴趣的部门是美国国务院(State Department)、财政部(Treasury)、其他情报机构和国家安全委员会(National Security Council)。
But there are still limits to how many of the telephone conversations can be stored, and for how long. Some phone conversations are kept in the databases for weeks, some for months, and some are destroyed almost immediately after they are determined to have little intelligence value.
不过，通话内容的存储能力和存储时间依然存在限制。一些通话内容会在数据库里存放数周，另一些存放数月，还有一些内容被认定为基本没有情报价值，几乎会立即销毁。
Mr. Clapper discussed the intelligence priorities framework during his testimony on Tuesday, partly to point out that the American intelligence services spy only on the people and places they are asked to by policy makers.
克拉珀在周二的证词中讨论了情报优先框架的问题，部分是为了说明，美国的情报机构只监视政策制定者要求他们监视的人和地点。
The White House has announced that Mr. Obama has already assured Ms. Merkel that she is not being listened to now, and will not be in the future — though they refuse to talk about the past. The president’s cease-and-desist order to the N.S.A. is an indication that, at least in her case, he now believes that the United States got its benefit-cost analysis wrong.
白宫已经宣布，奥巴马已向默克尔保证，她目前没有受到监听，今后也不会受到监听。不过，白宫拒绝讨论过去的事情。总统对NSA发布的停禁令是一个迹象，表明他已经认定，至少是在默克尔的事情上，美国打错了算盘。
White House officials have suggested that the entire program of monitoring allied leaders is now under review, although they offer no specifics about which other leaders are no longer monitoring targets.
白宫官员已经表示，目前正在审核监视盟国领导人的整个计划，但他们没有详细说明，还有哪些领导人不再是监视的目标。
Meanwhile, Gen. Keith Alexander, the head of the N.S.A., pushed back in testimony on Tuesday at the notion that the N.S.A. was routinely capturing metadata about calls in France and Spain, saying much of that work was done by, or with, allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The spokesman for the French government, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, said Wednesday that “the N.S.A. director’s denials do not seem very plausible.”
与此同时，NSA局长基斯·亚历山大上将(Gen. Keith Alexander)在周二的证词中驳斥了关于NSA在法国和西班牙定期收集通话元数据的说法。他说，这其中的大部分工作都是美国在北大西洋公约组织(North Atlantic Treaty Organization)的盟友单独完成的，或者是他们与美方共同完成的。法国政府发言人纳贾提·瓦洛-贝勒卡西姆(Najat Vallaud-Belkacem)于周三表示，“NSA局长的否认似乎不太可信。”
A spokeswoman for the National Security Council, Caitlin M. Hayden, said the discussions with the Germans on Wednesday “were an opportunity to hear from one another and jointly determine how the dialogue can best proceed.” The German government has said it will seek an agreement with some of the same elements of the arrangement that the United States has with Britain and other English-speaking allies to share data and refrain from spying on each other.
国家安全委员会女发言人特琳·M·海登(Caitlin M.Hayden)说，美方和德方周三举行的讨论“是一个机会，双方能籍此听取对方的意见、共同决定如何以最佳的方式推进对话”。德国政府已经表示，将谋求和美国签订协议，协议的部分内容应当与美国和英国等英语盟国签订的分享数据、不进行相互监视的协议相同。