Nearly one in five high-school-age boys in the United States and 11 percent of school-age children over all have received a medical diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, according to new unpublished data from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
将近五分之一的美国高中男生和11%的所有学龄儿童被诊断患有注意力缺陷多动障碍（Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder，简称ADHD），这是来自美国联邦疾病预防和控制中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)尚未发布的最新数据。
These rates reflect a marked rise over the last decade and come at a period of growing concern among many doctors that the A.D.H.D. diagnosis and its medication are overused in American children.
这些比率在过去10年明显增加，同时，很多医生一段时期以来的担心也日益增加，他们担心ADHD的诊断以及其治疗药物在美国儿童中被过度使用。
The figures also showed that an estimated 6.4 million children aged 4 through 17 had received an A.D.H.D. diagnosis at some point in their lives, a 16 percent increase since 2007 and a 53 percent rise in the past decade. The data showed that about two-thirds of those with a current diagnosis receive prescriptions for stimulants like Ritalin or Adderall, which can drastically improve the lives of those with A.D.H.D. but can also lead to addiction, anxiety and occasionally psychosis.
这些数据还表明，约有640万年龄在4岁到17岁之间的儿童在他们一生中某个阶段曾得到ADHD的诊断，这比2007年增长了16%，与10年前相比增长了53%。数字表明，目前被诊断为ADHD的人中约有三分之二得到兴奋药的处方，比如利他林(Ritalin)或Adderall，这类药物可以显著改善ADHD患者的生活，但也可能导致上瘾、焦虑以及偶尔的精神错乱。
A.D.H.D. is described by most experts as resulting from abnormal chemical levels in the brain that impair a person’s impulse control and attention skills.
大多数专家把ADHD描述为由大脑中化学物质水平异常所引起，这种异常削弱患者的冲动控制和注意力技能。
While some doctors and patient advocates have welcomed rising diagnosis rates as evidence that the disorder is being better recognized and accepted, others said the high rates suggest that millions of children may be taking medication merely to calm behavior or to do better in school. Pills that are shared with or sold to classmates – diversion long tolerated in college settings and gaining traction in high-achieving high schools – are particularly dangerous, doctors say, because of their health risks when abused.
虽然一些医生和患者利益倡导人士曾欢迎诊断率的上升，认为这表明该障碍得到了更好的认识和接受，但其他人表示，高诊断率表明，数百万儿童可能仅仅为了让他们安静或在学校表现好，而使用药物。医生说，尤其危险的是，同学之间分享或转售药片，因为滥用此类药物有健康风险，然而这种做法在大学里长期存在，并开始向重视成绩的高中扩展。
“Those are astronomical numbers. I’m floored,” said Dr. William Graf, a pediatric neurologist in New Haven, and a professor at the Yale School of Medicine. He added, “Mild symptoms are being diagnosed so readily, which goes well beyond the disorder and beyond the zone of ambiguity to pure enhancement of children who are otherwise healthy.”
“这些都是天文数字，太吓人了，”纽黑文的儿科神经学家、耶鲁大学医学院(Yale School of Medicine)教授威廉·格拉夫(William Graf)说。他补充道，“轻微征候在被轻易地给出诊断，这大大超过了该障碍的范围，超出了模糊区域，变成是仅仅为了改善儿童，而这些儿童其实是健康的。”
The findings were part of a broader C.D.C. study on children’s health issues, taken from February 2011 to June 2012. The agency interviewed more than 76,000 parents nationwide by both cellphone and landline and is currently compiling its reports. The New York Times obtained the raw data from the agency and compiled the results.
这些发现是疾病预防和控制中心（简称CDC）针对儿童健康问题展开的一项更广泛研究的一部分，是在2011年2月到2012年6月间进行的。CDC通过手机和固定电话采访了全国范围内逾7.6万名父母，目前还在撰写报告。《纽约时报》从该中心获得了原始数据，汇总出一些结果。
A.D.H.D. has historically been estimated to affect 3 to 7 percent of children. The disorder has no definitive test and is determined only by speaking extensively with patients, parents and teachers, and ruling out other possible causes – a subjective process that is often skipped under time constraints and pressure from parents. It is considered a chronic condition that is often carried into adulthood.
以往的估计认为，ADHD影响3%到7%的儿童。没有针对该障碍的确诊测验，只能通过与患者及其父母、教师等的大量交谈、排除其他的可能原因之后，作出诊断。这本身就是一个主观的过程，由于时间的限制和父母的压力，这个过程往往被略过。ADHD被认为是一种慢性病，通常会伴随患者进入成年时期。
The C.D.C. director, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, likened the rising rates of stimulant prescriptions among children to the overuse of pain medications and antibiotics in adults.
CDC局长托马斯·R·弗里登(Thomas R. Frieden)把开给儿童的兴奋药物处方的增加，类比于成年人过度服用止痛药和抗生素。
“We need to ensure balance,” Dr. Frieden said. “The right medications for A.D.H.D., given to the right people, can make a huge difference. Unfortunately, misuse appears to be growing at an alarming rate.”
弗里登说，“我们需要确保平衡。把正确的ADHD药物开给真正需要的人，能起巨大的作用。遗憾的是，误用药物的情况似乎正在以惊人的速度增长。”
Experts cited several factors in the rising rates. Some doctors are hastily viewing any complaints of inattention as full-blown A.D.H.D., they said, while pharmaceutical advertising emphasizes how medication can dramatically improve a child’s life. Moreover, they said, some parents are pressuring doctors to help with their children’s troublesome behavior and slipping grades.
对于药物使用率增加的现象，专家列举了一些原因。他们说，一些医生仓促地把任何注意力不集中的抱怨都诊断为典型的ADHD，而且，药品广告大力强调药能如何显著地改善孩子的生活。他们说，一些父母还向医生施加压力，让医生帮助改变孩子的恼人行为和下降的成绩。
“There’s a tremendous push where if the kid’s behavior is thought to be quote-unquote abnormal – if they’re not sitting quietly at their desk — that’s pathological, instead of just childhood,” said Dr. Jerome Groopman, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and the author of “How Doctors Think.”
哈佛大学医学院(Harvard Medical School)教授杰罗姆·古柏曼(Jerome Groopman)著有《医生如何思考》(How Doctors Think)一书，他说，“现在有一种强大的推力，如果一个孩子的行为被认为所谓异常，比如他不乖乖地坐在书桌前，那就被认为是病态，而不是童年的常态。”
Fifteen percent of school-age boys had received an A.D.H.D. diagnosis, the data showed; the rate for girls was 7 percent. Diagnoses among those of high-school age — 14 to 17 – were particularly high, 10 percent for girls and 19 percent for boys. About one in 10 high-school boys currently takes A.D.H.D. medication, the data showed.
数据显示，15%的学龄男童和7%的学龄女童被诊断患有ADHD。高中年龄段（14到17岁）的诊断率尤其高，女孩中有10%，男孩中有19%。数据还显示，约10%的高中男生目前在服用治疗ADHD的药物。
The medications – primarily Adderall, Ritalin, Concerta and Vyvanse – often afford those with severe A.D.H.D. the concentration and impulse control to lead relatively normal lives. Because the pills can vastly improve focus and drive among those with perhaps only traces of the disorder, however, an A.D.H.D. diagnosis has become a popular shortcut to better grades, some experts said, with many students unaware of or disregarding the health risks.
这类药物主要包括Adderall、Ritalin、Concerta和Vyvanse，通常能使那些患有严重ADHD的人注意力集中并控制冲动，从而能相对正常地生活。一些专家称，由于药物能帮助略微有该障碍的人极大地改善注意力和提高主动性，ADHD诊断已成为提高学习成绩的备受欢迎的捷径，而许多学生不了解或忽视了这类药物的健康风险。
Sales of stimulants to treat A.D.H.D. have more than doubled to $9 billion in 2012 from $4 billion in 2007, according to the health care information company IMS Health.
根据医疗保健信息公司IMS Health的数据，治疗ADHD所用的兴奋药物的销售额从2007年的40亿美元上升到了2012年的90亿美元，增长了不只一倍。
Given that severe A.D.H.D. that goes untreated has been shown to increase a child’s risk for academic failure and substance abuse, doctors have historically focused on raising awareness of the disorder and reducing fears surrounding stimulant medication.
如果严重的ADHD得不到治疗，会增加孩子学业失败和滥用药物的风险，鉴于这一点，医生以前一直关注提高人们对ADHD的认识，以及减少对兴奋药物的恐惧。
One of the leading voices has been Dr. Ned Hallowell, a child psychiatrist and author of best-selling books on the disorder. But in a recent interview, Dr. Hallowell said that the new C.D.C. data, combined with recent news media reports of young people abusing stimulants, left him assessing his role.
儿童精神病学家内德·哈洛韦尔(Ned Hallowell)就是曾经持这种观点的主要人物之一，他著有多本关于ADHD的畅销书。然而，在最近一次采访中，哈洛韦尔说，CDC的最新数据、以及近来关于年轻人滥用兴奋药物的新闻报道，让他重新评估自己所起的作用。
Whereas Dr. Hallowell for years would reassure skeptical parents by telling them that Adderall and other stimulants were “safer than aspirin,” he said last week, “I regret the analogy” and that he “won’t be saying that again.” And while he still thinks that many children with A.D.H.D. continue to go unrecognized and untreated, he said that the high rates demonstrate how the diagnosis is being handed out too freely, often by pediatricians with no expertise in child psychiatry.
多年来，哈洛韦尔都会安慰持有怀疑态度的父母，告诉他们Adderall和其他兴奋药物比“阿司匹林还要安全”，但是上周他说，“我后悔做了那个类比，”并表示自己“不会再那么说了”。尽管他仍认为许多患有ADHD的孩子仍然没被诊断出来，也没得到治疗，但他说，如此高的诊断率表明，诊断被过于随便地做出，而且通常由没有儿童精神病学专业训练的儿科医生做出。
“I think now’s the time to call attention to the dangers that can be associated with making the diagnosis in a slipshod fashion,” he said. “That we have kids out there getting these drugs to use them as mental steroids — that’s dangerous, and I hate to think I have a hand in creating that problem.”
哈洛韦尔说，“轻易的诊断可能会带来危险，我认为现在是呼吁人们注意这些危险的时候了。我知道有些孩子正在拿到这类药物，把它们当做精神兴奋剂来使用，这很危险。我真不愿意想自己在制造这个问题上起了作用。”