THE Air Force, as part of its recruitment efforts, is approaching young people for help in solving real-world technological problems using a collaborative online platform.
作为征兵工作的一部分，美国空军正在向年轻人寻求帮助，希望他们使用一个在线协作平台解决现实世界中的技术问题。
The initiative, which will be introduced on Thursday, will create a digital program called the Air Force Collaboratory, in which young people will be challenged to develop technologies for search-and-rescue operations in collapsed structures; to create software code for a quadrotor, a type of unmanned, aerial vehicle; and to determine where to place the newest GPS satellite.
这项拟定于周四推出的举措，将创建一个名叫空军合作实验室(Air Force Collaboratory)的数字项目。在这间虚拟实验室中，接受挑战的年轻人将为倒塌建筑物中的搜救行动研发技术，为一种名叫四旋翼直升机的无人飞行器开发软件代码，以及确定最新GPS卫星的方位等。
The Air Force hopes the program will attract students in so-called STEM subjects — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — to work with its airmen on developing solutions for the three challenges, and, ideally, consider enlisting.
空军希望这个项目将吸引一批所谓STEM学科（即科学、技术、工程和数学）的学生，与飞行员携手开发这三大挑战的解决方案。更理想的情形是，这番经历将促使这些学生产生入伍的念头。
The initiative — which the Air Force will promote through digital advertising, social media and partnerships with groups like Discovery Education — is the latest recruiting effort created for the Air Force by GSD&M, an agency based in Austin, Tex., that is part of the Omnicom Group.
这项举措是总部位于德克萨斯州奥斯汀市，隶属于宏盟集团(Omnicom Group)的GSD&M公司为空军量身设计的最新一轮招募攻势。美国空军将通过数字广告、社交媒体，以及探索教育频道(Discovery Education)等合作伙伴，全力推广这项计划。
GSD&M has been the Air Force’s agency since 2001, developing campaigns to help it attract the over 28,000 recruits it needs annually; the agency said its work had helped the Air Force meet its recruiting goals each year.
自2001年以来，作为美国空军的广告代理商，GSD&M公司一直在不遗余力地开发各种宣传活动，以帮助空军招募其每年所需的逾2.8万名士兵。这家广告代理商声称，在该公司的大力协助下，美国空军每年的征兵目标均顺利完成。
GSD&M’s recruiting strategy for the Air Force — which has always sought tech-savvy candidates — previously featured an “Airman Challenge” online video game. A separate campaign included television spots whose theme was, “It’s not science fiction.”
在GSD&M公司为空军设计的招募战略中，一款名为“飞行员挑战”(Airman Challenge)的在线视频游戏曾经占据显著位置——美国空军一直在寻求精通技术的候选人。另一个宣传活动包括以“这不是科幻小说”为主题的电视插播广告。
Col. Marcus Johnson, chief of the strategic marketing division of the Air Force Recruiting Service, said the Air Force focused on “going after the best and brightest young men and women, with an emphasis on the STEM subjects. Whether they’re in high school or college, those topics translate into what we do in the Air Force.”
美国空军招聘局(Air Force Recruiting Service)战略营销部主任马库斯·约翰逊(Marcus Johnson)表示，空军专注于“物色最好和最聪明的青年才俊，尤其重视候选人的STEM学科成绩。无论他或她是在上高中，还是上大学，这些科目均可以转换为空军实际工作所需的技能。”
He said the collaboratory program was meant to appeal to men and women ages 16 to 24, including high school students still determining their future plans.
他说，合作实验室项目旨在吸引年轻在16岁至24岁之间的青年男女，其中包括尚未确定未来规划的高中生。
Ryan Carroll, a creative director at GSD&M, said the Air Force was “very much like the Apples and Googles of the world in recognizing the huge need for scientists and engineers. They reach out to kids at an early age and show them the amazing things they can do with science and technology.” He pointed to initiatives like the Google Science Fair, an online, annual, global science competition for teenagers, as an example.
GSD＆M公司创意总监瑞恩·卡罗尔(Ryan Carroll)表示，空军“充分意识到他们对科学家和工程师的巨大需求，这一点与现实世界中的苹果(Apple)和谷歌公司(Google)非常类似。这些公司早早就接触幼龄儿童，向孩子们展示他们可以用科学和技术做哪些令人惊叹的事情。”他指出，作为一个面向青少年的年度在线科学竞赛，谷歌科学博览会(Google Science Fair)就是一个绝佳例证。
Similarly, the collaboratory program aims to “inspire the next generation of scientists, engineers, technologists and mathematicians, and to show them all the amazing, science-related things the Air Force does,” Mr. Carroll said. The program will also allow students to “participate and solve real problems the Air Force solves every day,” he added.
与之类似，合作实验室项目旨在“激发下一代的科学家、工程师，技术人员和数学家，向他们展示美国空军从事的那些令人惊叹，与科学有关的工作，”卡罗尔说。此外，该项目还将允许学生“参与和解决空军每天解决的实际问题，”他补充说。
Young people will be able to learn more about the initiative’s challenges at the Web site airforce.com/collaboratory, which will act as a forum. Challenge participants will be able to use custom-built tools to share ideas and work with airmen and other experts to develop solutions.
年轻人可以通过该项目官方网站airforce.com/collaboratory（这个网站即将作为一个交流论坛），了解更多关于挑战项目的讯息。挑战参加者可以使用定制工具，与飞行员和其他专家交流思想，一起研究解决方案。
Not surprisingly, digital media will primarily be used to promote the program. Custom editorial content is being developed for the STEM hub of Good.com, a global community of “pragmatic idealists,” while custom videos are being filmed for DNews, an online video series from Discovery Communications; the videos will feature the DNews hosts Trace Dominguez and Anthony Carboni. The technology network Technorati is asking bloggers to create custom posts on the collaboratory and related subjects, while the Air Force will pay to place videos on Web sites like YouTube, Blip and Machinima. In addition, the Air Force will promote the initiative on Facebook and Twitter.
不足为奇的是，数字媒体将成为推广这项计划的主渠道。美国空军正在为STEM学科精英的汇聚地Good.com（一个由“务实的理想主义者”组成的全球性社区）开发自定义编辑内容。提供给探索传播公司(Discovery Communications)在线视频网站DNews的定制视频亦在拍摄之中。DNews主持人特雷斯·多明格斯(Trace Dominguez)和安东尼·卡尔博尼(Anthony Carboni)将在这些视频中担当主要角色。网志搜索引擎Technorati正在要求博主们撰写以合作实验室和相关科目为主题的定制文章。同时，空军还将在YouTube、Blip和Machinima等网站上为这些视频购买空间。此外，空军将在Facebook和Twitter上推广这项计划。
Digital banner advertising will run on the Web sites of Scientific American, Popular Science and The Verge. One set of ads depicts an Air Force helicopter approaching a scene of destruction after a 7.0-magnitude earthquake that has trapped dozens of survivors. The copy reads, “Your idea could save them. The Air Force Collaboratory. Search and rescue 2.0 is now open. Start collaborating.”
数字横幅广告将出现在《科学美国人》(Scientific American)、《大众科学》(Popular Science)和《边缘》(The Verge)等刊物的官网上。一组广告描述的是，在一场七级地震爆发后，一架空军直升机正在迫近一片围困着数十名幸存者的废墟。广告文字如是写道：“你的创意可以挽救他们。空军合作实验室。搜救2.0现已开放。现在就开始合作吧。”
The Air Force also is working with Discovery Education, a division of Discovery Communications, on an outreach program for high school science and math teachers.
此外，空军正在与探索传播公司旗下的探索教育频道合作，打算开发一个面向高中科学和数学教师的宣传计划。
Colonel Johnson said that although the collaboratory would run through November, new challenges could be created after that. In addition, he said the Web site would carry no overt recruiting messages, nor would the Air Force actively recruit challenge participants, since the initiative was meant to raise interest in the Air Force and possibly encourage participants to seek out more information about opportunities there.
约翰逊上校说，尽管合作实验室项目仅仅持续至11月，但空军随后将创建新的挑战项目。此外，相关网站将不再公开发布招募信息，空军也不会积极地招募挑战参与者，因为这项举措旨在提高年轻人对空军的兴趣，或许将鼓励参与者寻求更多关于挑战机会的信息。
The budget for the campaign is $3.7 million.
这项宣传活动的预算为370万美元。
Diane H. Mazur, a former Air Force officer, professor emeritus of law at the University of Florida and author of “A More Perfect Military: How the Constitution Can Make Our Military Stronger,” said that although the collaboratory concept was “good, it’s not sophisticated to the degree it needs to be to attract the people they think they want to get.” She added, “This is a good direction if you do it well.”
前空军军官、佛罗里达大学(University of Florida)法学名誉教授、《一个更完美的军队：宪法如何能够让我们的军队更强大》(A More Perfect Military: How the Constitution Can Make Our Military Stronger)一书作者黛安·马祖尔(Diane H. Mazur)表示，尽管合作实验室是“一个不错的概念，但它的精致程度还略显不足，恐怕难以吸引到他们期望得到的人才。”她补充说：“倘若做得好，这倒是一个很好的方向。”
David R. Segal, a professor of sociology at the University of Maryland who specializes in military sociology, said that while recruiting high school students to “work in military laboratories on military problems” was not new, “what seems new is having interns work online with Air Force scientists.”
专门从事军事社会学研究的马里兰大学(University of Maryland)社会学教授大卫·西格尔(David R. Segal)说，招募高中生“参加致力于解决军事问题的军事实验室”并不算新鲜事，但“让实习生与空军的科学家在网上协作，似乎是一个新尝试。”
“I think they will certainly recruit a good number of high school students interested in science, engineering, technology and math to work on the problems identified. That part is easy,” he said. “Recruiting the same people then to come into the Air Force as enlisted men and women might be more difficult. They are likely to want to go to college.”
“我认为，他们肯定将招聘一大批对科学、工程、技术和数学感兴趣的高中生来解决已确定的问题。这部分工作相对简单，”他说。“但吸引这些高中生加入空军，最终成为应募入伍的士兵，可能要困难得多。这些青年男女很可能想上大学。”
As a result, he said, the collaboratory would probably be more successful recruiting Air Force Reserve Officers Training Corps students than airmen.
因此，在他看来，合作实验室项目最终成功招募到的，或许并不是飞行员，而是空军预备役军官训练团学员。