WASHINGTON — John Lewis was the 23-year-old son of Alabama sharecroppers and already a veteran of the civil rights movement when he came to the capital 50 years ago this month to deliver a fiery call for justice on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial.
华盛顿——50年前的8月，当父母皆为阿拉巴马州佃农的约翰·刘易斯(John Lewis)来到首都，在林肯纪念堂(Lincoln Memorial)门前的台阶上大声呼唤正义时，他只有23岁，但却已经是民权运动的老手了。
Mr. Lewis’s urgent cry — “We want our freedom, and we want it now!” — was eclipsed on the steps that day by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I Have A Dream” speech. But two years later, after Alabama State Police officers beat him nearly unconscious while he led a march in Selma, he was back in Washington to witness President Lyndon B. Johnson sign the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
牧师小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)博士当天所做的《我有一个梦想》(I Have A Dream)的演讲让刘易斯在台阶上发出的“我们要自由，现在就要”的疾呼黯然失色。但是，过了两年，在刘易斯因领导了塞尔马的一次游行而被阿拉巴马州州警打得几乎不省人事之后，他回到了华盛顿，见证总统林登·B·约翰逊(Lyndon B. Johnson)签署1965年的《选举权法》(Voting Rights Act)。
Today Mr. Lewis is a congressman from Georgia and the sole surviving speaker from the March on Washington in August 1963. His history makes him the closest thing to a moral voice in the divided Congress. At 73, he is still battling a half-century later.
如今，刘易斯是来自乔治亚州的联邦众议员，也是1963年8月“向华盛顿进军”(March on Washington)游行中唯一健在的演讲人。他的经历让他在分歧严重的国会里成了近乎道德权威的人物。半个世纪后的今天，73岁高龄的他仍在斗争。
With the Voting Rights Act in jeopardy now that the Supreme Court has invalidated one of its central provisions, Mr. Lewis, a Democrat, is fighting an uphill battle to reauthorize it. He is using his stature as a civil rights icon to prod colleagues like the Republican leader, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, to get on board. He has also met with the mother of Trayvon Martin and compared his shooting to the 1955 murder of 14-year-old Emmett Till.
现在，由于最高法院否决了《选举权法》的一项核心条款，该法处境危险，身为民主党人的刘易斯正在进行一场艰苦的斗争，试图让其重新得到批准。他正在利用自己民权标志性人物的声望敦促诸如共和党领袖、弗吉尼亚州众议员埃里克·坎托(Eric Cantor)这样的同僚与他联手。他还会见了特雷翁·马丁(Trayvon Martin)的母亲，并把马丁被枪杀与1955年14岁的埃米特·蒂尔(Emmett Till)被谋杀一事相提并论。
Mr. Lewis has an answer for those who say the election of a black president was a fulfillment of Dr. King’s dream: It was only “a down payment,” he said in an interview.
对那些声称黑人总统的当选表明金博士的梦想已实现了的人，刘易斯在采访中给出的答案是：这只是“首付”。
“There’s a lot of pain, a lot of hurt in America,” Mr. Lewis said in his office on Capitol Hill, which resembles a museum with wall-to-wall black-and-white photographs of the civil rights movement. Current events, he said, “remind us of our dark past.”
“在美国，有很多痛苦和伤害，”刘易斯在他的国会办公室里说。他的办公室像是一个博物馆，墙上挂满了民权运动时期的黑白照片。他说，当前的事情，“提醒我们铭记黑暗的过去。”
But Mr. Lewis, a longtime practitioner of civil disobedience (he has been arrested four times since joining Congress), is also encouraged. He said he found it gratifying to see peaceful throngs “protesting in a nonviolent fashion” after George Zimmerman was acquitted in Mr. Martin’s killing. Last week, he created a minor dust-up by telling Britain’s Guardian newspaper that Edward J. Snowden, the national security contractor who leaked classified documents, could argue that he was “appealing to a higher law,” but later condemned the leaks.
但作为“公民不服从”(civil disobedience)理念的长期实践者（成为国会议员后，他已四次被捕），刘易斯也受到了鼓舞。他说，乔治·齐默尔曼(George Zimmerman)在马丁被杀一案中被无罪释放后，看到平静的人群“以一种非暴力的方式抗议”让他深感欣慰。上周，他告诉英国《卫报》(The Guardian)，泄露了机密文件的国家安全局承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)可以声称，他这么做“是出于超法律准则的考虑”，此事引发了一场争论，不过他随后又对斯诺登的泄密行为表示了谴责。
Now Mr. Lewis is introducing himself to a new generation by telling the story of his life as a Freedom Rider in “March,” a graphic novel that he wrote with a young aide, Andrew Aydin. The book, released this week, is modeled on a 1958 comic about Dr. King, which inspired early sit-ins.
如今，刘易斯正在通过《游行》(March)一书讲诉自己作为自由乘客(Freedom Rider)的故事，让新一代人了解自己。这是一本绘图小说，由他和年轻的助手安德鲁·艾丁(Andrew Aydin)合著。于本周发行的该书仿照的是1958年的一本以金博士为主角的漫画，那本书启发了人们开展早期的静坐示威活动。
Mr. Lewis remains a link to that past. At a National Urban League convention in Philadelphia last month, he was on fire as he told the crowd how his parents reacted when he asked about colored-only signs a lifetime ago in the Deep South.
刘易斯依然是与那段历史联系的纽带。上月，在费城举行的“全国城市联盟”(National Urban League)大会上，当他告诉众人，自己很久很久以前在美国深南部问及“仅限黑人”的标志时父母的反应时，他很激动。
“They would say, ‘That’s the way it is, don’t get in the way, don’t get in trouble,’ ” Mr. Lewis thundered in a preacher’s cadence. “But one day, I was inspired to get in the way, to get in trouble. And for more than 50 years, I’ve been getting in what I call good trouble, necessary trouble! And it’s time for all of us to get in trouble again!”
“他们会说，‘生活就是这样的，别去阻拦，别惹麻烦，’”刘易斯以传道士般的抑扬顿挫大声说道。“但是有一天，我受到鼓励去阻拦，去惹麻烦。在50多年时间里，我惹了不少我称之为好麻烦的事儿，必要的麻烦。现在，到了我们所有人都该再去惹惹麻烦的时候了！”
Each year, Mr. Lewis leads an emotional re-enactment in Selma of the “Bloody Sunday” march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge, where the brutal police response horrified the nation.
每年，刘易斯会在塞尔马主持一项活动，生动地重现在埃德蒙·佩特斯桥对岸发生的“血腥星期日”(Bloody Sunday)游行，就是在那里，警察的残忍行径震惊了整个国家。
Mr. Cantor participated this year, bringing his college-age son, and said he came away “very moved” — a sentiment that Mr. Lewis will play on during negotiations over a new bill.
坎托参加了今年的活动，带上了上大学的儿子，他说自己离开的时候“深受感动”，而在就一项新议案谈判时，刘易斯正是会利用这种情感。
“John is what I call a gentle spirit,” said Roy Barnes, a former Georgia governor, recalling a visit by Mr. Lewis in 2001 when he was wrestling with removing the Confederate emblem from the state flag.
“约翰是那种性情极其温和的人，”乔治亚州前州长罗伊·巴恩斯(Roy Barnes)说道，他回忆起刘易斯2001年拜访他的时候，他正在努力移除州旗上南方联盟的标识。
“He said, ‘Right before I lost consciousness, I looked up and saw an Alabama state trooper beating me on the Edmund Pettus Bridge, and all I could see was a confederate flag on his helmet,’ ” Mr. Barnes recalled. “He said, ‘I want you to remember that.’ ”
“他说，‘就在我失去意识之前，我抬头看见一名阿拉巴马州州警在埃德蒙·佩特斯桥上打我，我所能见到的只有他头盔上南方联盟的旗帜，’”巴恩斯回忆道，“他说，‘我想要你记住这一点。’”
It is a long way from dusty Troy, Ala., where Mr. Lewis, one of 10 children, picked cotton and preached the Gospel to his chickens. His life took a turn when, at 18, he wrote to Dr. King. Mr. Lewis was studying at a Baptist seminary in Nashville, but was thinking about trying to integrate his hometown college, Troy State, now Troy University. Dr. King sent bus fare for Mr. Lewis to meet him in nearby Montgomery.
走出阿拉巴马州满是灰尘的特洛伊是一条漫漫长路。刘易斯共有9个兄弟姐妹，年幼的他摘棉花、对着鸡宣讲福音。18岁时，他写信给金博士，生活从此出现了转机。刘易斯当时在纳什维尔的一间浸礼会神学院学习，但正考虑进入家乡的白人学府特洛伊州立大学(Troy State)，即如今的特洛伊大学(Troy University)。金博士给刘易斯寄了车费，让刘易斯与他在附近的蒙哥马利见面。
His parents, he has written, were “deathly afraid” that his integration dream would bring the family harm. So he returned to Nashville, where he organized lunch counter sit-ins, got arrested and met a theologian, Jim Lawson, whose teachings about Gandhian nonviolence had a profound effect on him. In his quest to build what Dr. King called “the beloved community” — a world without poverty, racism or war — Mr. Lewis routinely votes against military spending.
他写道，他的父母“吓得要命”，生怕他进入白人大学的梦想给家人带来伤害。因此他回到纳什维尔，在那里组织了午餐柜台前的静坐，被捕，然后遇见了一名神学家吉姆·劳森(Jim Lawson)。劳森对甘地非暴力运动的倡导对刘易斯产生了深远的影响。在刘易斯努力创造金博士所说的“爱的社群”——一个没有贫穷、种族歧视和战争的世界——的过程中，他一再对军费开支投反对票。
“For most of us, nonviolence was a tool we used to achieve an end,” said another movement veteran, Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina. “John Lewis internalized that.”
“对我们多数人来说，非暴力是我们用来实现目标的工具，”南卡罗来纳州众议员、资深活动人士詹姆斯·E·克莱伯恩(James E. Clyburn)说。“约翰·刘易斯将其与自己融合在了一起。”
After 26 years in Congress, Lewis has no major bills to his name and is not known for legislation. With a reported net worth between $8,009 and $121,000, he is one of the least affluent members of Congress, according to OpenSecrets.org. Republicans assail his liberal politics, but he is virtually unbeatable in his overwhelmingly Democratic district.
在国会任职26年，刘易斯并没有推出过重大的法案，也并不以热衷于立法而闻名。据OpenSecrets.org网站统计，刘易斯的资产净值在8009美元（约合4.9万元人民币）到12.1万美元之间，属于国会里最贫穷的议员之列。共和党人攻击他自由派的政治主张，但他所在的选区里，民主党占绝对优势，他的地位坚不可摧。
On Capitol Hill, Mr. Lewis has joined with Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, Republican of Wisconsin, to renew the voting bill. “It’s hard to look John Lewis in the eye and say, ‘We don’t need this,’ ” said Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat.
在国会山，刘易斯已经与威斯康星州共和党众议员詹姆斯·森森布伦纳(Jim Sensenbrenner)联手，来恢复《选举权法》的条款。“我们很难看着约翰·刘易斯的眼睛说，‘我们不需要这个，’”佛蒙特州民主党参议员帕特里克·J·莱希(Patrick J. Leahy)说。
On Aug. 24, at an anniversary march on Washington, Mr. Lewis will speak again at the Lincoln Memorial. A few weeks ago, he walked there alone from the Capitol, wearing a ball cap and workout clothes. It was peaceful. No one recognized him.
8月24日，在华盛顿的一场纪念日游行活动中，刘易斯将再次在林肯纪念堂发表讲话。几周前，他独自从国会大厦走到那儿，戴了一顶棒球帽，身穿运动服。那里十分安静。没人认出他来。