WASHINGTON — When a North Korean missile test went awry Sunday, blowing up seconds after liftoff, there were immediate suspicions that a U.S. program to sabotage the test flights had struck again. The odds seem highly likely: Eighty-eight percent of the launches of the North’s most threatening missiles have self-destructed since the covert American program was accelerated three years ago.
华盛顿——朝鲜上周日进行的导弹试验出了差错，在升空几秒后爆炸，之后立即有人怀疑是美国的破坏项目又一次取得成功。这种可能性似乎很大：自从美国在三年前加快推进这个秘密项目以来，朝鲜发射的最具威胁性的导弹有88%都出现了自毁的情况。
But even inside the U.S. Cyber Command and the National Security Agency, where the operation is centered, it is nearly impossible to tell if any individual launch is the victim of a new, innovative approach to foil North Korean missiles with cyber and electronic strikes.
然而，即便是处在行动核心的美国网络战司令部(U.S. Cyber Command)和国家安全局(National Security Agency)，也几乎无法判断发射究竟是否是以网络和电子袭击挫败朝鲜导弹发射的创新手段所致。
Bad welding, bad parts, bad engineering and bad luck can all play a role in such failures — as it did in the United States’ own missile program, particularly in its early days. And it would require a near impossible degree of forensic investigation to figure out an exact cause, given that the failed North Korean missiles tend to explode, disintegrate in midair and plunge in fragments into faraway seas.
焊接、部件、工程有问题，或运气不好都有可能导致这样的失败——美国自己的导弹项目也是如此，尤其是在早期阶段。考虑到朝鲜发射失败的导弹往往会爆炸、在半空中解体，然后一片片坠入大海，要搞清楚确切的原因，需要将调查取证进行到几乎难以实现的程度。
But this much is clear, experts say: The existence of the U.S. program, and whatever it has contributed to North Korea’s remarkable string of troubles, appears to have shaken Pyongyang and led to an internal spyhunt as well as innovative ways to defeat a wide array of enemy cyberstrikes.
但专家们表示，有一点是明确的：不管是否对朝鲜引人注目的一系列麻烦负有责任，那个美国项目的存在似乎就已经震惊了平壤，引发了一场内部间谍追查行动，也令它开始寻找击败敌方各种网络袭击的创新手段。
By all accounts, the program that President Barack Obama stepped up in 2014 has been adopted with enthusiasm by the Trump administration. President Donald Trump’s national security aides are eagerly hoping that the Chinese, among others, will get North Korea to freeze or reverse its program. Yet they have no compunctions about using this new class of weapon against missile tests that the United Nations has already prohibited.
根据各种流传的说法，贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统在2014年加快推进的这个项目，已被特朗普政府满怀热情地采纳。唐纳德·特朗普总统的国家安全助理急切地希望中国等国家能让朝鲜冻结或废除这个项目。对于使用这种新型武器来对付已被联合国禁止的导弹试验，他们可以毫无顾忌。
“When you look at what is emanating out of North Korea,” Michael Chertoff, a former secretary of homeland security who now runs a cyberconsulting group in Washington, said Tuesday at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “I have sympathy for the argument that anything we can do to stop an unpredictable person from using nuclear weapons is worth trying.”
“看到朝鲜正在发射的东西，”曾担任国土安全部部长、现在华盛顿管理一家网络咨询机构的迈克尔·切尔托夫(Michael Chertoff)周二在卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)说道。“我会支持这样一种观点，即阻止不可预料的人使用核武器的任何努力都是值得一试的。”
But the question for the United States’ intelligence agencies is whether this new tool is as effective as many have hoped. While billions of dollars have been poured into new offensive cyberweapons, touting a success in thwarting North Korea — whether it is real or imagined — can be turned into an argument for more.
但美国情报机构面临的问题是，这种新手段是否像许多人期待的那么有效。当几十亿美元资金被投入到新型进攻性网络武器时，兜售在挫败朝鲜方面所取得的成功——不管它是真的，还是幻觉——都可能变成伸手要钱的理由。
It is a particularly difficult question in light of Sunday’s botched test, because it is still unclear exactly what missile was launched. By nature, missiles teeter on the brink of failure, and new designs are often accident prone. At their best, missiles are dense welters of pipes, engines, valves, pumps, volatile fuels, relays, explosive bolts, wires, sensors and circuit boards that suddenly emit blistering flames and roar skyward with such shattering violence that they often quickly hit the breaking point. Things can easily go wrong, and frequently do.
至于周日那次失败的试验，这个问题尤其难以回答，因为目前尚不清楚朝鲜发射的究竟是什么导弹。从本质上讲，导弹发射就很容易失败，而且新设计往往容易出现事故。在最好的状态下，这些导弹是密集组合起来的一堆管子、引擎、阀门、泵、挥发性燃料、继电器、爆炸螺栓、金属丝、传感器和电路板，这个组合体突然释放出炽热的火焰，以很快达到极限的令人震惊的力度直冲云霄。在这个过程中，很容易出现差错——也的确常常如此。
But even by those measures, the North Koreans are having a rough time, and it has gotten a lot rougher since the United States accelerated its sabotage program.
但即便如此，朝鲜的确在经历一个艰难的时刻，而且自美国加速推进其破坏项目以来，情况变得更加艰难。
In the annals of rocketry, experts say, roughly 5 to 10 percent of developmental test flights go awry. That holds even for such high practitioners of the art as the billionaires Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, and Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla, who are now racing to redefine the future of spaceflight. (By contrast, U.S. commercial airline flights have a success rate of more than 99.9999 percent. And when crashes do occur, it can take investigators weeks, months or even years to identify the cause.)
专家称，在火箭应用发展史上，研发测试飞行大约有5%~10%会失败。即便是对亚马逊(Amazon)创始人、亿万富翁杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)和特斯拉(Tesla)创始人埃隆·马斯克(Elon Musk)达到如此高度的实践者来说，也是如此——这两人正在争相定义宇宙飞行的未来（相比之下，美国商业航班的成功率超过了99.9999%。而当真的发生飞机坠毁事件时，调查人员需要花费数周、数月，乃至数年才能确认出现事故的原因）。
But the sheer frequency of North Korean missile mishaps suggests that sabotage lies behind at least some of the recent failures.
不过，朝鲜导弹发射出错的频率之高，表明最近的失败至少有一些是由美国的破坏活动所导致的。
So does the timing. Typically, countries encounter high failure rates when they start their rocket programs. As the programs mature, and engineers gain experience, spectacular failures decline and success tends to become a habit. In North Korea, the situation has been the exact reverse.
从时间上看也是如此。通常，各国在开启火箭项目时会遭遇比较高的失败率。随着项目逐渐成熟、工程师经验日渐丰富，引人注目的失败便会减少，成功往往变成常态。在朝鲜，情况却恰恰相反。
By and large, the North was a reliable maker of missiles in the 1980s, ‘90s and into the 2000s. The government sold its missiles to Pakistan and Iran, among others.
总体上讲，朝鲜在上世纪八九十年代直到2000年代，一直是个靠谱的导弹制造国。该国政府还将导弹卖给了巴基斯坦和伊朗等国家。
Then came the effort to launch the Musudan, an intermediate-range missile that Pyongyang first displayed in a military parade in late 2010. It was 5 feet wide and 40 feet long — remarkably small compared with the North’s big rockets. But it represented an enormous threat. Carried on a truck, it could be hauled on country roads through forested regions or kept in tunnels, making it easy to hide and, as a target, difficult to find and destroy.
然后，朝鲜开启了发射“舞水端”(Musudan)的努力，这种中程弹道导弹最早亮相于朝鲜在2010年末举行的阅兵式上。它长40英尺（约合12米）、宽5英尺（约合1.5米）——相比于朝鲜的大型火箭，体积相当小。但它却代表着一种巨大的威胁。它可以装在卡车上，穿过森林覆盖的区域，拖到乡间道路上，或放在隧道里，便于隐蔽，很难发现和摧毁。
To date, the proven reach of the Musudan makes it the most threatening potential weapon in the North’s emerging arsenal of missiles that might loft nuclear warheads. It is seen as able to hit targets up to 2,200 miles away — far enough to strike the sprawling U.S. base at Guam.
舞水端导弹已被证实的射程，使它成为迄今为止、朝鲜日渐展露的能搭载核弹头的导弹库中威胁潜力最大的武器。外界认为，它可以击中2200英里远的目标——足以击中美国在关岛的军事基地。
Last year, the North conducted eight flight tests. Only one succeeded, giving the missile an overall failure rate of 88 percent. It was after the last failure that the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Un, was reported to have ordered an investigation into whether the United States was sabotaging his country’s test flights, searching for spies in his system.
去年，朝鲜进行了八次试射，只有一次取得成功，由此这种导弹整体的发射失败率达到88%。据称在最后一次失败后，朝鲜领导人金正恩下令进行调查，以查明美国是否在破坏朝鲜的导弹发射试验，并在自己的体系中搜寻有无间谍存在。
Experts say that the best way to slow a program is to send a country scrambling for the causes of failures. “Disrupting their tests,” William J. Perry, defense secretary in the Clinton administration, said at a meeting this year in Washington, would be “a pretty effective way of stopping their ICBM program.”
专家们表示，让一个项目放慢速度的最佳办法就是让一个国家忙着寻找失败的原因。“破坏他们的试验，”曾在克林顿政府担任国防部长的威廉·J·佩里(William J. Perry)在今年于华盛顿举行的一场会议上说，将是“阻止他们的洲际弹道导弹(ICBM)项目非常有效的办法”。
But more recently, the effectiveness of the United States’ sabotage has grown increasingly uncertain. Some new North Korean missile designs, using solid fuels, have had a higher success rate. Moreover, the North Koreans, as sophisticated cyberoperators, have grown better at defense.
但最近，美国破坏行动的有效性变得越来越不确定。朝鲜一些新型导弹的设计使用了固体燃料，成功率由此提高。此外，作为一个富有经验的网络运营者，朝鲜在防御上也有所改善。
John Schilling, a technical expert on North Korea’s missile program, expressed skepticism Tuesday about the efficacy of the foreign cyberattacks against Pyongyang’s missiles.
针对朝鲜导弹的境外网络袭击究竟是否有效，研究朝鲜导弹项目的技术专家约翰·席林(John Schilling)在周二表示了怀疑。
“We haven’t seen anything yet pointing to cyber specifically,” Schilling said on a conference call organized by 38 North, a think tank specializing in North Korea at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
“我们还没看到任何明确指向网络的东西，”席林在约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际问题研究学院(Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)参加专门研究朝鲜问题的智库机构38 North组织的一次电话会议上说道。
An easier target of sabotage, Schilling added, would be the parts and supplies that North Korea imports to feed its factories that make the missiles.
席林还表示，更容易破坏的目标将是朝鲜从国外进口、供应给本国导弹工厂的零部件和耗材。