MOSCOW — The United States will deepen its involvement in negotiating a solution to the Ukraine crisis, with a senior State Department official, Victoria J. Nuland, to hold a day of talks on Monday with Russian officials on buttressing a rickety peace agreement.
莫斯科——美国将进一步通过介入相关谈判寻求乌克兰危机的化解之道，周一，国务院高级官员维多利亚·J·纽兰(Victoria J. Nuland)将以巩固一项脆弱的和平协议为目标，与俄罗斯官员进行为期一天的会谈。
Until now, the peace agreement reached in February by the leaders of Russia, Ukraine, Germany and France has curbed the worst violence between the government forces and the Russian-supported separatists in southeastern Ukraine. Fighting continues at various flash points, however, and work on carrying out political and economic measures in the agreement, negotiated in Minsk, Belarus, has sputtered.
目前来看，俄罗斯、乌克兰、德国和法国领导人今年2月达成的这项协议，已经让乌克兰政府军和受俄罗斯支持的分裂分子之间，在该国东南部地区发生的最为激烈的暴力冲突得到了遏制。不过，各个冲突点的战火仍未平息；在白俄罗斯明斯克达成的这项协议所囊括的政治经济举措，执行起来也举步维艰。
“There is less firing, but none of us should be satisfied with the results,” Ms. Nuland said Saturday at a news conference in Kiev, Ukraine. “So that’s why we want to push harder on all of these things and see what we can achieve in the coming days and weeks.”
“枪炮声少了，但我们不该就此满足，”周六，纽兰在乌克兰首都基辅参加新闻发布会时表示。“正因为如此，我们才想要进一步推动所有这些事项的进程，看看在未来数日乃至数周内能否取得一些成效。”
She arrived in Moscow for negotiations just days after Secretary of State John Kerry met for four hours with President Vladimir V. Putin in the southern resort of Sochi to discuss Ukraine, the Iranian nuclear negotiations and the Syrian conflict, among other issues. It was the first visit by a senior American official since the Ukraine crisis erupted in February 2014.
就在纽兰为了谈判而赶到莫斯科的几天前，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)刚刚跟弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)在俄罗斯南部度假胜地索契进行了4个小时的会谈，所涉议题包括乌克兰危机、伊朗核谈判、叙利亚冲突等。这是2014年2月乌克兰危机爆发以来，美国高级官员首次访问俄罗斯。
Russia, Germany and France previously made it clear that they did not necessarily welcome the Americans at the negotiating table as part of the “Normandy format,” the group of their leaders, as well as President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine, who hammered out the Minsk cease-fire.
俄罗斯、德国和法国此前曾明确表示，并不一定欢迎美国人坐在谈判桌前参加“诺曼底模式”会晤。除了这三个国家的领导人，上次参与这类会晤的还包括乌克兰总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)，明斯克停火协议正是由他们达成的。
So it was unclear how the European Union might react to greater American involvement, despite repeated statements from Washington that it was coordinating its position with Berlin and the rest of Europe. Ms. Nuland, the assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, is expected to meet primarily with Grigory B. Karasin, a deputy foreign minister.
因此尚不清楚欧盟会对美国的进一步介入作何反应，尽管华盛顿多次强调，它正跟柏林以及欧洲其他方面就其立场进行协调。纽兰是负责欧洲及欧亚事务的助理国务卿，据预计，她的主要会谈对象将是俄罗斯外交部副部长格里高利·B·卡拉辛(Grigory B. Karasin)。
Germany and France have managed to hold together European Union support for economic sanctions against Russia — which must be approved by all 28 member states if they are to be extended at the end of June — in large part by arguing that the peace process was a European effort. Greece, Hungary and Cyprus have shown signs of wavering.
德国和法国已经设法让欧盟内部达成了支持对俄罗斯实施经济制裁的共识。只有28个成员国全部赞成，欧盟才能在6月末延长对俄罗斯的制裁。在很大程度上，两国是通过强调这一和平进程是欧洲努力的成果，来说服其他国家的。希腊、匈牙利和塞浦路斯均已显露出动摇的迹象。
On the other hand, the Europeans are still clinging to the Minsk accords as the best means to prevent Russia from turning the war in Ukraine into an unresolved, frozen conflict.
另一方面，欧洲人依然坚信，明斯克协议是避免俄罗斯把乌克兰的战争转变为难以收拾的冷冲突的最佳手段。
The United States, which has repeatedly accused Russia of arming and training the separatists, is evidently impatient to test Moscow’s commitment to the peace plan.
曾多次谴责俄罗斯为分裂分子提供武器和培训的美国，显然没有耐心去测试莫斯科对和平计划有多么认真。
“In Sochi, President Putin told Secretary Kerry that he is fully committed to Minsk implementation,” Ms. Nuland said. “It’s now important that all sides walk the walk, not just talk the talk.”
“在索契，普京总统告诉克里国务卿，他会全心全意地履行明斯克协议，”纽兰说。“现在最重要的是，各方都要拿出行动来，不能空口说白话。”
The Minsk accords called for the formation of working groups on a number of crucial issues, including humanitarian aid for the separatist region of Donbas, as well as the economy and plans for the future political process there. The groups were organized this month and are expected to begin talks in earnest this week.
明斯克协议要求设立一些工作组，解决大量关键问题，包括对分裂地区顿巴斯提供人道主义援助，以及当地的经济状况和未来政治进程的安排。工作组已于本月成立，有望本周正式开始会谈。
Ms. Nuland said she would concentrate on certain specific goals for those groups.
纽兰称，她会专注于这些工作组的一些具体目标。
American officials have emphasized the need for a cease-fire around the southern coastal town of Shyrokyne. The ridgeline above the western edge of the nearly abandoned town remains under the control of Ukrainian forces; if captured by the separatists, it could facilitate an attack on the neighboring, strategic port of Mariupol.
美国官员强调，需要在南部沿海小镇希洛基诺(Shyrokyne)周边停火。这个几乎被遗弃了的小镇西边的山脉，仍处在乌克兰政府军的控制下。如果被分裂分子夺取，那片山脉会为袭击附近具有战略意义的港口马里乌波尔(Mariupol)提供便利。
Besides Shyrokyne, there are about a half-dozen points along the confrontation line where fighting continues intermittently. Three Ukrainian soldiers were killed and 17 wounded in the past 24 hours, according to a military spokesman in Kiev; more than 6,100 people have been killed in eastern Ukraine in just over a year. The separatists repeatedly accuse the Ukrainians of firing on their positions, as well.
在对峙的前线上，交火仍在断断续续地进行，除希洛基诺之外，还有大约六处交火点。军方发言人在基辅表示，过去24小时里有三名政府军士兵遇难，17人受伤。仅在一年多的时间里，乌克兰东部就有超过6100人死亡。分裂分子也多次指责，乌克兰政府军朝他们的阵地开火。
Humanitarian aid is another issue, with convoys freely entering the separatist regions of Donetsk and Luhansk from Russia but not from Ukraine. The United States wants to open corridors for aid from Ukraine and also to subject the Russian convoys to international inspection, with access for inspectors from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe all along the border.
人道主义援助是另外一个问题。来自俄罗斯的车队可以自由进入顿涅茨克和卢甘斯克这两个分裂地区，但来自乌克兰的车队却不可以。美国希望向来自乌克兰的援助开放通道，并让俄罗斯车队接受国际检查，允许来自欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)的检查人员前往整个边境沿线。
Many independent Russian analysts think that Mr. Putin is just biding his time, keeping the fighting on a slow burn until economic problems in the European Union itself force a return to business as usual with Russia.
很多俄罗斯独立分析人士认为，普京只是在等待时机，让战斗慢慢进行，直到欧盟自己的经济问题强迫它恢复与俄罗斯的贸易。
Russian commentators who support the Kremlin certainly took that attitude after Mr. Kerry’s visit, suggesting that Moscow and Washington could figure out the future of the embattled country themselves.
克里到访后，支持克里姆林宫的俄罗斯评论人士肯定会认同上述态度。因为这显示出单靠俄美两国，就能为处境堪忧的乌克兰筹划未来。