WASHINGTON — The United States transferred six detainees from the Guantánamo Bay prison to Uruguay this weekend, the Defense Department announced early Sunday. It was the largest single group of inmates to depart the wartime prison in Cuba since 2009, and the first detainees to be resettled in South America.
华盛顿——美国国防部(Defense Department)周日凌晨宣布，美国已于周末将关塔那摩湾监狱的六名囚犯移交给了乌拉圭。这是自2009年以来，从位于古巴的这座战时监狱脱身的人数最多的一次，也是首批将被安置在南美洲的囚犯。
The transfer included a Syrian man who has been on a prolonged hunger strike to protest his indefinite detention without trial, and who has brought a high-profile lawsuit to challenge the military’s procedures for force-feeding him. His release may make most of that case moot, although a dispute over whether videotapes of the procedure must be disclosed to the public is expected to continue.
移交的人中包括一名叙利亚籍男子。该男子通过长期绝食，来抗议自己未经审判便被无限期关押。他还提起了一场备受瞩目的诉讼，挑战军方对他强行喂食的做法。他的获释可能会让该案的大部分内容变得没有实际意义，不过是否应该将记录相关程序的视频向公众公开的争议，预计还会继续下去。
The transfer was also notable because the deal has been publicly known since it was finalized last spring. Significantly, however, delays by Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel in signing off on the arrangement placed it in jeopardy. Mr. Hagel’s slow pace this year in approving proposed transfers of low-level detainees contributed to larger tensions with the White House before his resignation under pressure last month.
此次人员移交之所以引人注目，也是因为自今年春天敲定相关协议后，公众一直知情。然而尤其重要的是，国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)多次推迟签字批准相关安排，使之险些无法执行。在上月迫于压力辞职前，哈格尔今年在批准移交低级别囚犯一事上行动迟缓，导致他与白宫的关系愈发紧张。
Although President Obama vowed in 2013 to revive his efforts to close the prison, the military had transferred just one low-level detainee in the first 10 months of this year. That transfer occurred in March.
尽管奥巴马总统在2013年发誓要重新推动关闭该监狱的行动，但在今年前10个月里，军方仅移交了一名低级别囚犯。那次移交是在3月进行的。
But the bureaucratic logjam appears to be clearing: Since November, it has transferred 13 more. There have now been 30 transfers under Mr. Hagel’s watch as defense secretary; by comparison, only four were transferred under his predecessor, Leon Panetta, who ran the Pentagon from July 2011 to February 2013.
不过，行政上的阻碍似乎正在消除：自11月以来，军方已移交了13人。目前，在哈格尔担任国防部长期间，已有30人被移交。相比之下，在其前任利昂·帕内塔(Leon Panetta)执掌五角大楼的2011年7月至2013年2月期间，仅有四人被移交。
Still, even if the military were to transfer all the other detainees recommended for such a move, some 69 detainees would remain. They are either facing charges before a military commission or deemed untriable but too dangerous to release.
然而，即使军方移交其他所有建议被移交的人员，依然会剩下大约69名囚犯。他们要么面临着军事委员会的指控，要么被认为不宜受审，但却因为过于危险，而不能将其释放。
The Obama administration hopes that if it can shrink the inmate population to two digits, Congress will revoke a law that bars the transfer of detainees into the United States. It would be far cheaper for taxpayers to house the inmates on domestic soil, and the White House argues that closing Guantánamo would eliminate a propaganda symbol for terrorists to use against the country. But Republican lawmakers remain hostile to that plan. They argue that housing wartime prisoners on domestic soil would increase the risk of terrorist attacks inside the United States.
奥巴马政府希望，如果能将囚犯人数压缩至两位数，国会便会撤销一项禁止将囚犯转移到美国国内的法律。对纳税人来说，将那些囚犯关押在国内的成本要低得多，并且白宫称，关闭关塔那摩监狱，就让恐怖分子少了一个用来对抗美国的宣传符号。但共和党议员依然反对该计划。他们称，将战时的囚犯关押在本土，会增加美国国内发生恐怖袭击的风险。
Each of the six detainees had long been recommended for release if the receiving country could meet security conditions, but they remained at Guantánamo because they come from home countries with troubled security conditions. Earlier this year, Uruguay’s president, José Mujica, offered to take them in, and the deal was ready to go in March.
长期以来，针对此次被移交的六人的建议是，如果接收国能满足安全条件，便可将其释放。但因为原籍国安全局势混乱，所以一直被关押在关塔那摩监狱。今年早些时候，乌拉圭总统何塞·穆希卡(José Mujica)表示愿意接收他们，且相关协议在3月就已准备好了。
But Mr. Hagel waited until July to notify Congress that he was approving the deal. The following month, when the United States sent a plane to Guantánamo to bring the men out, Mr. Mujica balked, preferring to avoid the media spectacle of their arrival in the middle of an election campaign to choose his successor.
但哈格尔等到7月才告知国会，他将批准该协议。8月，当美国派一架飞机前往关塔那摩接相关人员出狱时，穆希卡突然叫停。当时产生下一任总统的选举造势正在进行，穆希卡希望避免囚犯到来引发的媒体关注。
Then, Uruguay’s presidential election went into a runoff, which was held on Nov. 30. During the delay, administration officials insisted that the transfers would take place eventually.
随后，乌拉圭总统大选在11月30日举行了最后一轮投票。在拖延的这段时间里，奥巴马政府官员坚称，囚犯转移工作最终肯定会展开。
Cliff Sloan, the State Department envoy who negotiates detainee transfers, expressed gratitude to Mr. Mujica in a statement. Several other South American countries, including Brazil, Chile and Colombia, motivated by news of the Uruguay deal, had opened talks about potentially taking in some low-level detainees as well, but were watching to see what would happen.
美国国务院(State Department)负责囚犯转移谈判的特使克利夫·斯隆(Cliff Sloan)，在一份声明中表达了对穆希卡的感谢。受到乌拉圭协议的鼓舞，包括巴西、智利和哥伦比亚在内的另外几个南美国家，也开始就接受一些低级别囚犯的可能性而开展谈判，但它们同时也在观望未来的动向。
“We are very grateful to Uruguay for this important humanitarian action, and to President Mujica for his strong leadership in providing a home for individuals who cannot return to their own countries,” Mr. Sloan said. “The support we are receiving from our friends and allies is critical to achieving our shared goal of closing Guantánamo.”
“我们非常感谢乌拉圭这次重要的人道主义举动，感谢穆希卡总统发挥了强大的领导力，为无法回到祖国的个人提供一个家园，”斯隆说。“我们从朋友和盟友那里获得的支持，对于实现关闭关塔那摩监狱的共同目标是至关重要的。”
He noted that “this transfer is a major milestone in our efforts to close the facility.”
他指出，“这次囚犯转移在我们关闭这所设施的行动中，是一个重要的里程碑。”
Mr. Mujica, a former urban guerrilla who spent 14 years in prison in Uruguay, including more than a decade in solitary confinement, expressed critical views of Guantánamo in a televised interview over the weekend, adding, “Once there is a president of the United States who wants to undo a miserable injustice that they left for him, turning one’s back due to such thinking would be cowardly, even more so when one thinks as one thinks.”
穆希卡曾是城市游击队员，而且曾在乌拉圭的监狱里服刑14年，其中超过10年是单独监禁。他在周末的电视采访中表达了对关塔那摩监狱的批评：“当一位美国总统想要结束自己继承来的一种可悲的不公正时，拒绝施以援手是懦弱的表现，为自己的不作为找理由则更加懦弱。”
Mr. Mujica also emphasized that Uruguay would not place restrictions on the mobility of the six men, saying that their arrival with refugee status meant that “the first day they want to leave, they can go.”
穆希卡还强调说，乌拉圭不会限制这六个人的行动。他说，他们会以难民的身份进入乌拉圭，这意味着，“只要他们想离开，就可以走。”
When they arrived in Uruguay early Sunday morning, five of the men were taken to a military hospital for examinations. A sixth who was described as in more fragile health was taken to a civilian facility, Hospital Maciel, according to a report the Uruguayan radio station Monte Carlo.
他们周日早上抵达乌拉圭时，其中五名男子被带到了一家军事医院接受体检。据乌拉圭蒙特卡洛(Monte Carlo)广播电台的报道，另外一名男子据称身体更加虚弱，被带到了民用的马西埃尔医院(Hospital Maciel)。
Tabaré Vázquez, an ally of Mr. Mujica’s and a moderate leftist who won Uruguay’s presidential election in November, has said that he agreed with the decision to receive the detainees after going over the move with the United States ambassador in Montevideo, Julissa Reynoso.
穆希卡的盟友、温和的左翼人士塔瓦雷·巴斯克斯(Tabaré Vázquez)11月赢得了乌拉圭总统大选。他说，在与美国驻蒙得维的亚大使朱莉莎·雷诺索(Julissa Reynoso)进行了相关讨论之后，他支持接收囚犯的决定。