WASHINGTON — With sanctions, blacklists and other measures doing little to financially break the Islamic State, the United States has turned to a far simpler tactic to empty the group’s coffers: It is literally blowing them up.
华盛顿——当制裁和黑名单等措施对从财政上遏制伊斯兰国(Islamic State)没有起到多大作用的时候，美国转向了一种简单得多的战术来掏空该组织的金库：直接将其炸掉。
American warplanes have struck nine depots where the group is believed to have stashed tens of millions of dollars in cash, said Col. Steven H. Warren, a spokesman for the American-led coalition. The strikes began in the summer and the latest came Monday in Mosul, Iraq, he said, showing a video in which plumes of cash could be seen fluttering about in the moments after a building was demolished by a bomb.
美国牵头的盟军的发言人史蒂夫·H·沃伦上校(Steven H. Warren)透露，美国战斗机对九处仓库进行了轰炸，据信其中藏匿了价值数千万美元的现金。他称，这类袭击行动始于去年夏季，最近一次发生在本周一，地点位于伊拉克的摩苏尔。他还展示了一则视频，显示一处建筑被炸弹摧毁后喷洒出大量现金。
Colonel Warren, who spoke via video teleconference from Baghdad, could not say how much money had been destroyed in Mosul — “tens of millions of dollars” was the estimate offered — or whether the bills were Iraqi dinars, American dollars or some other currency. But he did offer up a catch phrase for the tactic: “Strike the Daesh cash, as we call it around here.”
沃伦身处巴格拉，通过视频会议宣布了这一消息。他不愿透露摩苏尔有多少钱被销毁，也不肯说这些钱是伊拉克第纳尔、美元还是别的什么现钞，只提供了“数千万美元”的估值。不过，他给出了这种战术的一种上口的名称：“我们这边喜欢说，炸飞达伊什(Daesh)的钞票。”
Daesh, the Arabic name by which many in the Middle East derisively refer to the Islamic State, may not actually rhyme with cash (its pronunciation is closer to “da-ish” than “dash”). But the military appears confident that bombing cash depots is helping to sap the financial strength of the Islamic State, which American officials and experts believe may be bringing in around $1.5 billion to $2 billion a year.
达伊什是中东地区通用的对伊斯兰国的阿拉伯语蔑称，其实与英语的cash并不怎么押韵（它的发音更接近“da-ish”，而非“dash”）。不过，军方看来信心十足，相信轰炸金库有助于削弱伊斯兰国的财力。美国官方和专家认为，伊斯兰国的年收入可能在15亿到20亿美元之间。
“Striking these cash collection points hurts this enemy,” Colonel Warren said. “They operate on cash, right? There is no credit in” the Islamic State.
“轰炸这些金库能削弱敌人，”沃伦说。“他们要靠现金来运作，对吧？”伊斯兰国“没有信贷”。
That may not be strictly true. Western officials and experts who track Islamic State finances say there are examples of the militants using oil or other goods to procure needed supplies, including ammunition and other military equipment. And how much cash the Islamic State is actually storing in depots, rather than laundering through regional banks and money transfer businesses, is an open question.
这一点也许并不那么绝对。追踪伊斯兰国财务状况的西方官员和专家表示，有例子说明，这些激进分子在用石油等物品来换取所需的补给，包括弹药等军事装备。而且，比起通过地区银行和生意转账洗的钱，伊斯兰国到底在这些仓库里储存了多少现金也是个未知数。
In fact, Treasury Department officials charged with undermining Islamic State finances were saying as recently as November — months after the military began striking cash depots — that the United States and its allies were having trouble cutting the flow of money to the group.
实际上，就在去年11月，美国财政部负责破坏伊斯兰国财政状况的官员还称，美国及其盟友难以切断该组织的现金流，而此时距离军方开始轰炸这些金库已过去了好几个月。
That is in large part because of how the group obtains money, wringing it from the people and territory it controls, which limits the impact of sanctions and financial blacklists. The Islamic State has looted roughly $1 billion from bank vaults across Syria and Iraq, and it exacts taxes, tolls and traffic fines from those who live under its control. It makes millions of dollars a month smuggling oil. It traffics in looted antiquities and ransoms for kidnapped foreigners, and drums up donations from wealthy supporters in the Persian Gulf.
这在很大程度上与该组织获取资金的方式有关，它会从自己控制的地区和居民那里榨取钱财，而这会影响制裁和金融黑名单等措施的效果。伊斯兰国从叙利亚和伊拉克各个银行的保险库掠夺了大约10亿美元，还向它控制区域的居民收取税费和交通罚款。通过走私石油，它每月能获取数以百万美元计的利润。它的其他获利方式还包括卖掉抢来的古董，绑架外国人索取赎金，从波斯湾地区富裕的支持者那里募集款项。
Still, there are indications that the Islamic State’s finances have been under pressure in recent months with some reports indicating that the group had to cut pay to some fighters. If that is the case, experts say it is probably because of military setbacks, such as the loss of Ramadi, Iraq, which deprived the Islamic State of a bustling commercial center whose inhabitants and businesses the militants could extort, tax and fine.
不过，也有迹象表明，伊斯兰国的财务状况最近几个月出现了压力，有一些报道显示该组织不得不消减一些战士的军饷。专家表示，如果情况果真如此，可能是因为它在军事上遭遇挫败，比如失去了对伊拉克拉马迪的控制。而失去这么一个繁忙的商业中心意味着无法再向那里的居民和生意人榨取钱财、课税或收缴罚款。
The falling price of oil, which the militants typically sell for about half the going rate, has also had an impact, said a European official who tracks militant finances and spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence.
一名追踪调查武装组织财务状况的欧洲官员称，石油价格下跌也有影响。武装分子通常会以现行市场价格的大约一半出售石油。这名官员要求匿名讨论情报问题。
Airstrikes against oil tankers and wells controlled by the Islamic State have also cut into the group’s earnings, though it is hard to quantify how deeply at this point, the official said.
该官员称，对伊斯兰国控制的油轮和油井的空袭也减少了该组织的收入，不过此时还难以量化这种影响。
The military, for its part, insists its attacks on the Islamic State’s oil smuggling operations and cash depots is making a difference.
军方自己坚称，它对伊斯兰国石油走私业务和现金存放地点的袭击发挥了作用。