It was like clockwork. Someone writing in The New York Times would refer to the Big Five American orchestras: the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the Cleveland Orchestra, the New York Philharmonic and the Philadelphia Orchestra. And within hours, Peter Pastreich, the respected executive director of the San Francisco Symphony from 1978 to 1999, would beard The Times’s overseer of classical music — at the time, me — by telephone or e-mail, complaining that the term Big Five had long since outlived whatever usefulness it may once have had.
每次都是这样。只要有人在《纽约时报》上提到“美国五大交响乐团”：波士顿交响乐团(Boston Symphony Orchestra)、芝加哥交响乐团(Chicago Symphony Orchestra)、克利夫兰交响乐团(Cleveland Orchestra)、纽约爱乐乐团(New York Philharmonic)和费城交响乐团(Philadelphia Orchestra)，不到几个小时，可敬的彼得·帕斯特里克(Peter Pastreich)，1978年至1999年旧金山交响乐团(San Francisco Symphony)的执行总监就会给《纽约时报》的古典音乐负责人——那时候就是我——打来电话或者发来邮件表示反对，说“五大交响乐团”这种说法很久以前就已经失去了它可能曾经有过的用处。
The Times was by no means alone in using it. At least by the mid-1960s, soon after I had started to follow classical music, the term had become common coin in discussions of the American orchestral scene. And it proved remarkably persistent, even as the mighty handful started to suffer setbacks and other orchestras grew in budget and artistic stature, notably the St. Louis Symphony, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the San Francisco Symphony.
肯定不是只有《纽约时报》一家采用这种说法。至少在20世纪60年代中期，在我开始专门研究古典音乐之后不久，这个说法在讨论美国交响乐总体情况时就经常被提到。结果证明这个说法生命力很强，甚至在其中几个大乐团开始遇到挫折，而其他乐团——尤其是圣路易斯交响乐团(St. Louis Symphony)、洛杉矶爱乐乐团(Los Angeles Philharmonic)和旧金山交响乐团——在财力和艺术水平上有所提高之后，这个说法仍然没有消失。
Ernest Fleischmann, executive director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic from 1969 to 1998, argued for recognition of a big six. And the San Francisco Symphony, celebrating its centennial in the 2011-12 season under Mr. Pastreich’s successor, Brent Assink, found a creative way to imply the existence of a big seven if not proclaim it, presenting each of the Big Five and the Los Angeles Philharmonic in brief residencies at its home, Davies Symphony Hall.
1969年至1998年任洛杉矶爱乐乐团执行总监的欧内斯特·弗莱茨曼(Ernest Fleischmann)认为自家乐团应该被评为第六大乐团。2011年至2012年音乐季，旧金山交响乐团在庆祝百年诞辰之时，帕斯特里克的继任者布伦特·阿森特(Brent Assink)虽然没有公开宣告该乐团是第七大乐团，却想出了一个很有创意的方法来暗示这一点——请五大乐团和洛杉矶爱乐乐团先后在该乐团的大本营达维斯音乐厅(Davies Symphony Hall)短暂驻演。
Plausible notions both, though neither caught on. Yet it is true that while the idea of the Big Five may still exist in the public imagination, you no longer hear talk of it in the profession except from Big Five members, when, occasionally, they find it useful.
这两个提议貌似合理，但是都没有流传开来。不过，事实上，五大乐团的概念可能还存在于公众的想象之中，专业人士却不再提它，只有五大乐团的成员偶尔在他们觉得有用的时候会提起。
A century or so ago, when classical music thrived in a nation of immigrants, orchestras were a powerful force, flagship institutions that helped to put American cities on the cultural map. And the Big Five, when it coalesced, helped, with its cumulative weight, to put American orchestras firmly on the international map. No other country could boast of such a constellation.
大约一个世纪以前，当古典音乐在美国这个移民国家盛行时，交响乐团是一股强大的力量，是帮助美国城市登上文化版图的重要机构。五大乐团联合起来，用它们的合力帮助美国交响乐团确立了在国际上的地位。没有其他哪个国家能以拥有这样的著名乐团群体而自豪。
But this landscape has changed greatly over the last half-century, much as the country’s economic, demographic and cultural landscape has, and in many of the same ways. The economic fortunes of the flagship ensembles have changed with the fortunes of their cities.
但是在过去半个世纪里，这种局面随着美国经济、人口和文化局面的改变发生了巨大变化。这些领头乐团的财力也随着其所在城市的经济情况发生了变化。
“The notion of the Big Five just doesn’t exist today,” Thomas W. Morris, the chief executive and artistic director of Spring for Music, a festival of North American orchestras at Carnegie Hall, says in a video on the festival’s Web site.
“五大乐团的概念如今不存在了，”北美交响音乐节“音乐之春”(Spring for Music)的首席执行官和艺术总监托马斯·W·莫里斯(Thomas W. Morris)在该音乐节网站的视频里说，该音乐节在卡内基音乐厅举办。
The idea of the Big Five was largely created and popularized by journalists, although the member executives started to hold their own meetings. The concept was certified, in a way, by 1969 and 1972 analyses commissioned by, er, the Big Five suggesting that perhaps only the Big Five would survive.
五大乐团的概念主要是由记者提出和传播的，不过这五大乐团的主管们渐渐也开始举办专属这个团体的会议。从某种程度上讲，这个概念因为1969年和1972年的两次分析而进一步得到了肯定——这两次分析是，呃，由五大乐团委托进行的——结论就是也许只有这五大乐团能够生存下去。
“There is a natural tendency in any field to want to identify and celebrate the best,” said Jesse Rosen, president and chief executive of the League of American Orchestras, a service organization, whose annual conference opens Tuesday in St. Louis.
“任何一个领域都想要找出并歌颂自己的最优秀者，这是很自然的，”美国交响乐团联盟(League of American Orchestras)的总裁兼首席执行官杰西·罗森(Jesse Rosen)说，这是一家服务机构，它的年度会议将于周二在圣路易斯举行。
The problem is establishing criteria. In sports, the best can usually be identified by hard and fast quantities: timings, distances, scores, percentages. In music, as in other arts, the issue is quality, and that is not so easily determined or compared.
问题在于建立标准。在体育方面，最优秀的通常能快速通过硬性量化指标评判出来：用时、距离、分数和百分比。而音乐呢，就像艺术的其他领域一样，关键是看质量，而质量可不是那么容易判断或者比较的。
In fact, the criteria of membership in the Big Five, never firmly established, began with quantities. They included size of budget, number of recordings, amount of touring (especially stops in New York), presence on radio and television, and number of year-round musicians. Quality, it was more or less assumed, would follow the numbers, with more-prosperous orchestras able to attract better players, conductors and guest artists.
实际上，虽然五大乐团的成员资格从来都没有确切的标准，但是首先是从数量上评判的，包括预算的多少、唱片的数量、巡演的次数（特别是在纽约的演出）、在电台和电视上的曝光率以及全年制音乐家的数量。人们或多或少会认为质量与数量有关，因为兴旺的乐团能吸引到更好的乐手、指挥家和客座艺术家。
But those quantities were always squishy, and the balances shifted. The Cleveland Orchestra, for example, with the smallest budget by far, got its foot in the door of what some thought of as a Big Four Plus One mainly on the strength of its artistic achievement under George Szell, its music director from 1946 to 1970, before gaining full recognition.
但是这些数字总是在变化，这种平衡也在改变。比如克利夫兰交响乐团到目前为止是预算最少的，它能勉强跻身五大乐团主要得益于1946年至1970年乔治·塞尔(George Szell)任音乐总监期间乐团取得的艺术成就，之后才得到了更广泛的认可。
Vague though it was, the notion of a Big Five carried real meaning and impact for a time. “If you go far enough back, 30 to 40 years,” said Gary Hanson, the Cleveland Orchestra’s executive director, “the defining element of success had a lot more to do with an institution’s ability to compete for talent than anything else. In that competitive environment, there was a direct relationship between reputation and quality.”
五大乐团这个概念虽然比较模糊，但是一度具有真正的意义和影响力。“在三四十年前，”克利夫兰乐团的执行总监加里·汉森(Gary Hanson)说，“判断一个乐团成功与否的决定性因素是它争取人才的能力。在那种竞争环境中，声誉和质量有直接的关系。”
The major orchestras competed for recording contracts, players, major conductors. Today, with recording contracts rare, more orchestras employing their players year-round and geographical mobility a way of life, the market is more diffuse. Climate and cost of living are as likely to figure in a musician’s choice of employer as an orchestra’s historic renown.
当时的主要乐团为唱片合同、乐手和大指挥家而竞争。如今，唱片合同已经很少见了，更多的乐团跟乐手签订的是年度合同，在不同的城市生活成了一种生活方式，市场也更分散了。音乐家在选择乐团的时候，气候和生活成本很可能同乐团的历史声望一样重要。
Mr. Hanson acknowledged that the Big Five orchestras benefit slightly from a “residual reputational momentum.”
汉森承认五大乐团仍能稍微从“剩余的声誉影响力”中获得一些益处。
“But today,” he added, “the ability to maintain a viable orchestra and pursue greater quality depends almost entirely on philanthropy. It depends on the ability of the local community to fund its orchestra.”
“但是如今，”他补充说，“乐团想要生存下去，追求更高的质量，几乎完全依靠捐款。这取决于当地社区资助乐团的能力。”
Cleveland is a particularly difficult case, with so many corporations having fled the city. But with Franz Welser-Möst as music director, the Cleveland Orchestra has retained its lofty artistic profile while relying on major gifts and on residencies in Miami, Vienna and elsewhere.
克利夫兰乐团的处境尤为艰难，因为很多公司离开了这座城市。但是多亏音乐总监弗兰兹·韦尔泽-莫斯特(Franz Welser-Möst)，克利夫兰乐团仍保持着优秀的艺术表现，同时依靠主要大额捐赠，以及在迈阿密、维也纳以及其他一些地方的驻演维持下去。
In another stressed city, the Philadelphia Orchestra filed for bankruptcy in 2011. But it, too, seems to have weathered the storm in fine artistic fettle, thanks to the interim efforts of Charles Dutoit as principal conductor and Yannick Nézet-Séguin’s arrival last year as music director.
而费城交响乐团所在的城市也遇到了严重的经济问题，以至于乐团曾于2011年申请破产。但是多亏夏尔·迪图瓦(Charles Dutoit)在危难之时临时担任首席指挥，去年雅尼克·涅杰瑟贡(Yannick Nézet-Séguin)又到任音乐总监，该乐团似乎一直保持着良好的艺术水准，终于度过了难关。
Yet, in the words of Deborah Borda, executive director of the New York Philharmonic from 1991 to 1999 and now president and chief executive of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, “the great western migration continues.” She was referring to both geophysical and cultural trends.
但是用黛博拉·博尔达(Deborah Borda)的话说，“伟大的西部移民在继续”。她在1991年至1999年任纽约爱乐乐团的执行总监，现任洛杉矶爱乐乐团的总裁兼首席执行官。她指的是地理和文化上的一种趋势。
Ms. Borda’s orchestra — first under Esa-Pekka Salonen as music director, and now under Gustavo Dudamel — is flourishing as never before, artistically as well as financially. Its programming is easily the most adventurous of any major American orchestra. And the San Francisco Symphony continues to thrive under its longtime music director, Michael Tilson Thomas, notwithstanding the bump of a 17-day players’ strike in March that wiped out a scheduled East Coast tour, including two concerts at Carnegie Hall.
博尔达现在所在的乐团从前由埃萨-佩卡·萨洛宁(Esa-Pekka Salonen)任音乐总监，现在的音乐总监是古斯塔夫·杜达美(Gustavo Dudamel)。该乐团无论从艺术上还是从财力上都达到了前所未有的繁荣。它的规划往往是美国几大交响乐团中最大胆的。旧金山交响乐团在其长期音乐总监迈克尔·提尔森·托马斯(Michael Tilson Thomas)领导下，继续茁壮成长，尽管今年3月经历了17天的乐手罢工，导致已安排好的东海岸巡演取消，包括计划在卡内基音乐厅举办的两场音乐会。
Mr. Pastreich, the former San Francisco Symphony director, recently examined the budgets for the major American ensembles listed by the League of American Orchestras and found Los Angeles (with the Hollywood Bowl) at the top, followed by Boston (with the Boston Pops and Tanglewood), Chicago, San Francisco, New York and Philadelphia. Cleveland, which didn’t report, is no doubt some lengths behind.
旧金山交响乐团的前任总监帕斯特里克最近调查了美国交响乐团联盟列出的美国几个主要交响乐团的预算，发现洛杉矶（包括好莱坞露天剧场[Hollywood Bowl]）排在首位，之后是波士顿（包括波士顿大众交响乐团[Boston Pops]和唐格尔伍德[Tanglewood]音乐节）、芝加哥、旧金山、纽约和费城。没有提到克利夫兰，无疑它排得比较靠后。
Deborah F. Rutter, the president of the Chicago Symphony, echoed Mr. Hanson of Cleveland in noting a shift in priorities toward local concerns.
芝加哥交响乐团的总裁黛博拉·F·鲁特(Deborah F. Rutter)和克利夫兰的汉森的看法一致，她也注意到现在交响乐团更优先关注当地市场。
“The personality of the Chicago Symphony is based on the personality of Chicago,” she said. “If we focus on how we rank rather than how we are doing in our own market, we won’t succeed. We don’t want to be fantastic in Tokyo and less than great in Chicago.”
“芝加哥交响乐团的个性取决于芝加哥的个性，”她说，“如果我们只关注排名，而不关注在自己市场上的表现，那我们不会成功。我们不想在东京表现优异而在芝加哥却做得不够好。”
Other orchestras, too, are trying to integrate themselves more deeply into the culture of their cities and develop new, younger audiences and new sources of financing.
其他一些乐团也努力把自己和所在城市的文化更密切地结合起来，吸引新的、更年轻的观众，寻找新的资金来源。
“Success today is not limited to the quality of execution,” said Mr. Rosen of the orchestra league. “The things that represent quality today are much more varied, more democratic, more inclusive. Orchestras have to be more innovative, experimental and creative, more advanced in the ways they use technology.”
“如今，成功不仅限于演奏质量，”交响乐团联盟的罗森说，“如今代表质量的元素更多样化，更大众化，更包容。乐团必须更有革新精神，更愿意尝试新事物，更有创意，在使用新技术方面更先进。”
But in quality of execution, another leveling factor among American orchestras has been the astonishing degree of talent among young musicians who keep pouring out of conservatories. “The general level of playing has never been higher,” said Mr. Morris of Spring for Music.
但是拥有惊人演奏天分的年轻音乐人源源不断地从音乐学院涌出，这也成为影响美国各大交响乐团演奏质量的因素之一。“总体演奏水平从没这么高过，”“音乐之春”的莫里斯说。
As artistic director of that festival and the person who selects orchestras for Carnegie Hall appearances with an eye toward adventurous programming, Mr. Morris gets to hear a lot of them, and as a former general manager of the Boston Symphony and executive director of the Cleveland Orchestra, he knows what life used to be like at the top. He is quick to point out that with a heightened technical level and versatility has come a certain loss of character, style and individual point of view among orchestras.
莫里斯听过很多这些年轻天才们演奏，作为“音乐之春”的艺术总监，在为卡内基音乐厅挑选交响乐团时，他总是格外青睐大胆的曲目设计；而作为波士顿交响乐团的前任总经理以及克利夫兰交响乐团的执行总监，他知道巅峰时期生活是什么样子的。他很快指出，随着乐手更加多才多艺，技术水平不断提高，各个乐团却渐渐失去了个性、独特的风格和观念。
It used to be that an experienced ear, listening blind to a recording or a radio broadcast, could quickly tell one ensemble from another: Szell’s Cleveland Orchestra by its transparency, precision and sheer virtuosity; the Philadelphia Orchestra by its warmth, with a lush, enveloping string sound cultivated by Leopold Stokowski and Eugene Ormandy and mostly maintained by Riccardo Muti; the Chicago Symphony (Mr. Muti’s new orchestra) by its power, with a machine-tooled brass core energized by Fritz Reiner and almost turned into caricature by Georg Solti; the Boston Symphony by a slightly febrile, penetrating quality suited to the French music it performed under Charles Munch and Pierre Monteux; Leonard Bernstein’s New York Philharmonic by its attitude, with a rough and ready edge.
过去是这样的——一个经验丰富的音乐爱好者闭上眼睛听唱片或者电台广播，能很快分辨出是哪个乐团演奏的：塞尔领导下的克利夫兰交响乐团的特点是空灵、精准、技艺精湛；费城交响乐团的特点是温暖，弦乐层次丰富、盘旋环绕——这是莱奥波德·斯托科夫斯基(Leopold Stokowski)和尤金·奥曼迪(Eugene Ormandy)培养出来的，后来主要得到了里卡多·穆蒂(Riccardo Muti)的传承；芝加哥交响乐团（穆蒂的新东家）的特点是有力量，以机床般强劲的铜管乐器为核心，这主要是由指挥弗里茨·莱纳(Fritz Reiner)带动起来的，后被格奥尔格·佐尔蒂(Georg Solti)进行了略带夸张的演绎；波士顿交响乐团的特点是稍微有点狂热，具有穿透力，很适合它演奏的法国音乐，指挥是查尔斯·明希(Charles Munch)和皮埃尔·蒙度(Pierre Monteux)；伦纳德·伯恩斯坦(Leonard Bernstein)领导下的纽约爱乐乐团的特点是态度轻松、随意。
Alas, this loss has been international, with Russian brass players having lost their nasal swagger and German oboists no longer sounding like ducks. It is inevitable at a time when star conductors jet around the globe, often juggling multiple music directorships and imposing internationalist standards, and when players are more mobile geographically and upwardly.
哎呀，这种个性的丧失是全球性的——俄罗斯的铜管乐器演奏者不再发出夸张的鼻音，德国的双簧管演奏者听起来不再像鸭子。这是必然的结果，因为如今著名指挥家们经常飞往全球各地，同时担任好几个音乐总监的职位，推行国际标准，而且不管从地域上还是从地位上讲，乐手们的流动性也更强了。
Though no one would like to admit it, interchangeability — again, at the highest of levels — is in danger of becoming the norm. Then again, these may all seem fine points in view of the air of crisis that hangs over the whole American orchestral enterprise at the moment. Hardly a week goes by without a report of a pending bankruptcy, a threatened strike, a lockout, a cut in personnel or a slashing of budgets. Every orchestra, you could believe, is suffering, each in its own way.
尽管没人愿意承认，但是前所未有的可替代性有可能正成为一种常态。可是考虑到此时笼罩在整个美国交响乐行业的危机，这些可能都是好现象。几乎每周都有关于破产申请、罢工威胁、停工、裁员和预算极大缩减的报道。几乎可以说，每个交响乐团都在经受各自的考验。
Once again, Mr. Pastreich, formerly of San Francisco, takes issue with the way things are reported in the press.
旧金山交响乐团的前任总监帕斯特里克对媒体报道这些事情的方式又提出了异议。
“If I dropped in on the United States from Mars and heard, ‘What a disaster!,’ what would I see?” he asked. “Every little town has an orchestra. The Bay Area has dozens of them, some of very high quality. There are so many places with really dynamic stuff going on. The trouble does not reflect itself in the concert hall. This is an amazingly vibrant musical life.”
“如果我从火星上来美国拜访，听到有人说，‘太可怕了！’ 我会看到什么？”他问道，“每个小镇都有乐团。湾区附近甚至有十几个乐团，有些质量还很高。很多地方真的很有活力。从音乐厅并没有看到艰难之处。如今的音乐界充满了活力。”
Granted. But financial problems are indeed widespread. And the death of, say, the Minnesota Orchestra, which has already lost a season to a lockout just as it seemed on the verge of drawing near the top of the Big Whatever, would be mourned far beyond Minneapolis.
这一点我承认，但是财务问题真的在普遍发生。比如明尼苏达交响乐团在似乎就要成为某几大乐团之一时，突然遭遇停工而丢掉了一个演出季并最终破产，它的消亡不只会令明尼苏达人感到忧伤。
So in this burbling stew of toil, trouble and occasional triumph, does the passing of the Big Five represent loss or gain?
所以当乐团在辛苦、困难和偶尔的胜利中煎熬之时，五大乐团这个说法的消失到底是得是失？
Mark Volpe, the managing director of the Boston Symphony, said the designation was now irrelevant, even though it had yielded some benefits. “It was not objectionable,” he added, “and it cut through the noise of the marketplace and got us attention. So in that sense it was positive.”
波士顿交响乐团的管理总监马克·沃尔普(Mark Volpe)说这个名称现在已经无关紧要了，尽管它曾经使他们受益。“它没有引起争议，”他补充说，“它让我们在纷乱的市场中脱颖而出。从那个角度讲，它有过积极作用。”
You wanted to think, too, that the concept of a Big Five retained a certain aspirational quality for other orchestras. But it is clear after half a century that all the aspiration in the world was not enough for others to break into its ranks, and their aspirations now rightly lie elsewhere.
你也可能会想，五大乐团这个提法对其他乐团来说仍然像是某种梦想。但是很明显这半个世纪以来其他乐团的所有努力都不足以让他们跻身五大乐团，现在他们的雄心已经合理地转移到了其他地方。
Mr. Morris of Spring for Music spoke for many in the business when he said: “The Big Five was kind of a false god. It’s good that it doesn’t exist anymore.”
“音乐之春”的莫里斯说出了很多业内人士的心声：“五大乐团是个伪命题。它的消失是件好事。”