MIAMI — The sign from God and the Virgin Mary came near the end of their perilous, sun-scorched journey from Cuba to Florida: A dozen or so dolphins swam up to their home-built, overloaded sailboat, dipping in and out of the water, guiding them, they felt, toward a reimagined future.
迈阿密——在从古巴到佛罗里达州的危险焦灼旅程的尾声，上帝和圣母玛利亚传来讯息：十几只海豚游到他们自己制造的、超载的帆船周围，在水面上跳跃，指引他们驶向崭新的未来。
“It’s true we are blessed,” Rolando Quintero Ferrer, 27, one of the 12 passengers on the boat, said on his video recording of the voyage. “What a beautiful thing. Nobody will get close to us now.”
“我们的确得到了祝福，”27岁的罗兰多·金特罗·费雷(Rolando Quintero Ferrer)在自己记录这段旅程的视频中说。他是船上的12名乘客之一。“多么美妙。现在，没人能追上我们了。”
The omen proved true. After five days of being stuffed in the boat like cigarettes in a hard pack, including 24 hours on an uninhabited islet, the men sailed right up to a dock in Tavernier in the Florida Keys. It was 4:20 a.m. They scrambled out, pointed to the parking signs in English, hollered and wept. They then took out a cellphone and, knowing they would be welcomed, dialed 911, a trick gleaned from American television.
结果证明，那的确是个好兆头。他们挤在那条小船上航行了五天——就像装在硬烟盒里的香烟——中间在一个无人小岛上呆了24个小时。他们航行到佛罗里达群岛塔弗尼尔的一个码头。当时是凌晨4点20分。他们抢着爬下船，指着英文停车标识，又是喊又是哭。然后他们拿出手机，按下911，这是他们从美国电视剧里学到的技巧。他们知道自己会受到欢迎。
“Look at this great water,” Yosvanys Chinea, a 42-year-old carpenter, joked as he held up a bottle the police had handed him when they arrived. “It’s already curing my parasites, something that, for me, hadn’t happened in 42 years.”
“看这水多好，”他们到警察局后，42岁的木匠约斯万斯·奇内亚(Yosvanys Chinea)举起警察递给他的一瓶水打趣说，“它能杀死我的寄生虫，我活了42年，从没喝过这么好的水。”
Since President Obama renewed diplomatic ties with the island in December 2014, Cuba has undergone significant change. Airplane travel between Miami and Havana is booming. Cubans are expanding private microbusinesses with the help of stateside relatives. One thing that has not changed, however, is the desperation of Cubans to set sail in rickety boats for the United States — a sign that fears are increasing, not decreasing, as Cubans worry that protections, not available to other immigrants, offering them legal status are in danger of being rescinded.
2014年12月，奥巴马总统(President Obama)恢复了与这个岛国的外交关系。从那以后，古巴发生巨变。迈阿密和哈瓦那之间的航班往来变得频繁。古巴人在美国亲戚的帮助下扩展私营小买卖。不过，有一件事没有变：很多古巴人依然铤而走险，乘坐摇晃的小船向美国起航。这表明，人们的恐惧非但没减少，还在增加，因为古巴人担心，给他们提供合法地位的保护政策可能会取消——那是其他移民没有的待遇。
Since Oct. 1, more than 3,500 Cubans have either made it to the shores of the United States, allowing them to stay here legally, or been picked up at sea by the Coast Guard and sent home. The numbers arriving this year may reach numbers not seen since the balsero exodus of the 1990s.
从去年10月1日起，有3500多名古巴人尝试偷渡，有些人到达美国海岸，获准合法留在美国，也有些在海上被海岸警卫队(Coast Guard)拦截，遣送回国。今年可能会是20世纪90年代大偷渡以来成功抵达美国的古巴人人数最多的一年。
They come for two reasons. Life in Cuba remains incalculably difficult, especially for those outside the hustle and bustle of Havana. Freedom of expression remains severely limited, and wages can be as low as $16 to $22 a month.
他们来美国有两个原因。古巴的生活依然十分艰辛，尤其是热闹的哈瓦那之外的地方。言论自由依然受到严格限制，月薪只有16美元至22美元。
They are also motivated by panic. They believe that Congress is ready to repeal the 1966 Cuban Adjustment Act, which gives Cubans a unique privilege — automatic residency one year and a day after their arrival in the country. Attempts at a repeal have so far been unsuccessful, but anti-immigrant sentiment in Washington makes it a possibility, especially because Cubans are now viewed here as economic, rather than political, migrants.
另一个原因是恐慌。他们认为，美国国会打算撤销1966年的《古巴难民调整法案》(Cuban Adjustment Act)，这项法案赋予古巴人一项特权——他们到达美国一年零一天后自动拥有居住权。到目前为止，撤销这项法案的多次尝试都没有成功，但华盛顿的反移民情绪让撤销成为可能，尤其是考虑到古巴人现在被视为经济移民，而非政治移民。
Coast Guard officials said Cubans had become more aggressive in trying to evade capture. They at times jump in the sea or refuse to board the Coast Guard cutters. On Friday, 19 Cubans scrambled off their boat as the Coast Guard approached and swam to a lighthouse five miles off the Florida Keys; they eventually climbed down and will most likely be taken right back to Cuba. Two months ago, six Cubans on a boat had gunshot wounds and said they had been attacked in the Florida Straits. But all the bullets managed to miss major organs, prompting skepticism.
海岸警卫队官员称，古巴移民现在更加猛烈地对抗被捕。他们有时跳进大海或拒绝登上海岸警卫队的快艇。周五，当海岸警卫队靠近时，19名古巴人纷纷跳下小船，游到佛罗里达群岛5英里外的一座灯塔。他们最终妥协，并很可能会被直接送回古巴。两个月前，一艘小船上的6名古巴人受到枪伤，称他们在佛罗里达海峡(Florida Straits)遭到袭击。但所有的子弹都没有击中重要器官，引发质疑。
“We have had cases in the past of self-inflicted gunshots, and there is more noncompliance,” Petty Officer Mark Barney of the Coast Guard said. “Often they continue going and refuse to let us get them off the boats. It is a safety issue. There are cases all the time where people are found in the water, alive, dead, migrants gone missing.”
“我们以前遇到过自残案例，还有更不配合的情况，”海岸警卫队的海军士官马克·巴尼(Mark Barney)说，“他们往往继续向前开，拒绝下船。这是安全问题。一直以来都有在海里发现活人或死人的情况，也一直有移民失踪的案例。”
This group of Cubans said they, too, had a plan to dodge the authorities. “We would all jump in the water and try to swim away,” Mr. Quintero said.
这群古巴人说，他们也有躲避当局的计划。“我们打算都跳进水里，尽量游走，”金特罗说。
Asael Veloso, a 34-year-old farmer, tried to leave three years ago. He sold everything and hitched a ride with another bunch of so-called balseros. But their raft was captured eight hours from Cuba, and he returned home with less than he had left with.
34岁的农民阿瑟尔·贝洛索(Asael Veloso)三年前曾尝试离开古巴。他卖掉所有的家当，和另一群所谓的偷渡者搭船偷渡。但是在离开古巴8小时后，他们的木筏遭到控制。他返回家乡，身上的钱比离开时还少。
Everyone contributed. Mr. Chinea, the carpenter, and Edel Sánchez spent 20 days building the sailboat in a tobacco-drying house from scraps of wood. The small boat was designed for six people and ended up sailing with 12. A couple helped sail and navigate. A few had money or muscle power. Some had connections.
每个人都贡献了力量。木匠奇内亚和埃德尔·桑切斯(Edel Sánchez)花费20天时间在一个烟草烘干房里用木头碎料造了这艘小帆船。它本来的设计是供6人乘坐，结果搭载了12个人。一对夫妻帮忙驾驶和导航。有几个人是有钱或有力气。还有一些是有关系。
Inside the sailboat, they layered tightly. Although most Cubans disdain religion, the men did not hesitate to ask Dios for his blessings.
他们挤在这艘帆船上。虽然大部分古巴人蔑视宗教，但这些人毫不犹豫地祈求诸神保佑。
“I made promises to everyone: to God to La Virgen de la Caridad del Cobre,” Mr. Quintero said, referring to the patron saint of balseros.
“我向所有的神许愿：上帝和科夫雷爱德圣母(La Virgen de la Caridad del Cobre)，”金特罗说。他说的科夫雷爱德圣母是偷渡者的守护神。
They would need them. For two terrifying days, they could not clear Cuban waters.
他们真的需要神佑。开头两天，他们在古巴水域提心吊胆。
“We left with the current and the wind against us,” said Onelio Rodríguez, a baby-faced 26-year-old farmer. “But God is beautiful.”
“我们出发时，水流和风向都不利，”长着一张娃娃脸的26岁农民奥内略·罗德里格斯(Onelio Rodríguez)说，“但上帝是慈爱的。”
They slept, smoked cigarettes, played Latin music, bantered about girlfriends and children, poked fun at one another — especially at the man who got severely seasick the moment he boarded and scarcely moved during the six-day journey — and ate nuts and crackers. They also argued — over who would row, who could sleep at night, who was hogging space.
他们睡觉，抽烟，弹奏拉丁音乐，开女朋友和孩子的玩笑，互相取笑——尤其是取笑那个一上船就严重晕船、在6天航行中几乎没有挪动的人——吃坚果和饼干。他们也会争执，关于谁该划船，谁能晚上睡觉，谁占的地方太多。
Luck had been on their side; they had not seen the Coast Guard or hit a storm, which can doom these crossings. That was when the dolphins greeted them, and their optimism swelled. “Vamos a coronar,” Mr. Veloso said, describing their arrival and the cold beer that awaited them.
他们的确幸运。他们没碰上海岸警卫队或暴风雨——不管碰上哪个，偷渡都会失败。后来，海豚来迎接他们，他们的乐观情绪开始高涨。“我们要成功了”，贝洛索说。他开始描绘到达后的情形以及等待他们的冰冻啤酒。
The GPS flashed that they were 18 miles from the Florida Keys. The men started to row in the darkness. Finally, they spotted a sea wall along a beach in Tavernier and spied a dock. They sailed to it and pulled out the phone.
GPS显示，他们离佛罗里达群岛只有18英里。他们开始在黑暗中划船。最后，他们看到塔弗尼尔海滩上的海堤，找到了一个码头。他们航行到那里，拿出手机。
Police officers showed up and the Cubans took photos with them, unfurling their American flag.
警察到来后，古巴人展开美国国旗，与他们合影。
The next morning they were whisked to the Migration and Refugee Services offices run by the Conference of Catholic Bishops. The center fills out paperwork for arriving Cubans and, for those without relatives, feeds and puts them up in motels until they can be relocated to other states. Cuban migrants and refugees have been resettled around the country for decades so no one area bears the economic burden of helping them start new lives.
第二天早上，他们被送往天主教主教大会(Conference of Catholic Bishops)设立的移民和难民服务中心(Migration and Refugee Services)。该中心为新来的古巴人填写文件，给那些在美国没有亲戚的人提供食物，安排汽车旅馆，直到他们被安置到其他州。几十年来，古巴移民和难民被安置到美国各地，所以没有一个地区因为帮助他们开始新生活而增加经济负担。
The Quality Inn in Doral, west of Miami, felt close to heaven for the men: air-conditioning, television with dozens of channels, more eggs and meat than they had seen in forever.
迈阿密以西的多拉尔(Doral)的品质旅馆(Quality Inn)，在这些人看来近乎天堂：房间里有空调；电视有几十个频道；他们从没见过这么多鸡蛋和肉。
Half of the group would soon be destined for Las Vegas, the other half for Austin, Tex., where they will look for work. The center’s resettlement programs have a 70 to 90 percent success rate in finding jobs, said Juan F. Lopez, an associate director for the refugee services group.
不久之后，其中一半人将被送往拉斯维加斯，另一半将被送往得克萨斯州奥斯汀，他们将在那里找工作。该难民服务组织的副主管胡安·F·洛佩兹(Juan F. Lopez)说，该中心的安置项目在寻找工作方面的成功率为70%至90%。
“This is a country of laws, but we say, ‘Let’s look at this from the humane standpoint,’” Mr. Lopez said. “We can’t afford people getting here and going straight on public assistance.”
“这是一个讲究法治的国家，但是我们说，‘让我们从人道主义立场看待这个问题，’”洛佩兹说，“来到这儿就直接依靠政府救济的话，我们是负担不起的。”