Saying they can no longer ignore the rising prices of health care, some of the most influential medical groups in the nation are recommending that doctors weigh the costs, not just the effectiveness of treatments, as they make decisions about patient care.
美国最有影响力的一些医学专业团体表示，不能再对节节攀升的医疗账单视而不见，因此它们推荐，在进行病人的医疗决策时，医生要衡量其中的成本，而不仅仅是治疗的有效性。
The shift, little noticed outside the medical establishment but already controversial inside it, suggests that doctors are starting to redefine their roles, from being concerned exclusively about individual patients to exerting influence on how health care dollars are spent.
这一转变在医学圈外没有获得多少关注，但在圈内已引发争议。这种变化表明，医生们开始重新定位自己的角色，从只考虑病人个体，转变为同时对医疗开销的花费方式施加影响。
“We understand that we doctors should be and are stewards of the larger society as well as of the patient in our examination room,” said Dr. Lowell E. Schnipper, the chairman of a task force on value in cancer care at the American Society of Clinical Oncology.
“我们明白，医生应当充当，并且正在充当全社会的守护者，而不仅是守护诊疗室里的病人，”洛厄尔·E·施尼佩尔博士(Lowell E. Schnipper)说。他在美国临床肿瘤学会(American Society of Clinical Oncology)的癌症治疗价值工作组担任主席。
In practical terms, new guidelines being developed by the medical groups could result in doctors choosing one drug over another for cost reasons or even deciding that a particular treatment — at the end of life, for example — is too expensive. In the extreme, some critics have said that making treatment decisions based on cost is a form of rationing.
在实际工作中，医学团体正在起草的新指导意见或许会带来一个结果：医生根据花费来选择药物，乃至确定某种特定的疗法——比如，在临终阶段——过于昂贵。极端情况下，持批评意见的一些人士宣称，基于成本来进行医疗决策是一种配给制。
Some doctors see a potential conflict in trying to be both providers of patient care and financial overseers.
部分医生则认为，试图在提供医疗救护的同时照管财务问题的话，会带来潜在的冲突。
“There should be forces in society who should be concerned about the budget, about how many M.R.I.s we do, but they shouldn’t be functioning simultaneously as doctors,” said Dr. Martin A. Samuels, the chairman of the neurology department at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. He said doctors risked losing the trust of patients if they told patients, “I’m not going to do what I think is best for you because I think it’s bad for the health care budget in Massachusetts.”
“社会上应当有人来关心预算，关心我们做了多少磁共振成像检查，但是，这些人不应该同时承担医生的工作，”波士顿布莱根妇女医院(Brigham and Women’s Hospital)的神经科主任马丁·A·塞缪尔斯博士(Martin A. Samuels)说。他还说，如果医生告诉病人，“我不准备采取本人觉得对你最好的疗法，因为我认为这对马萨诸塞州的医疗预算不利”，那么，就可能会失去病人的信任。
Still, some analysts say that there is a role for doctors to play in cost analysis because not many others are doing so.
不过，一些分析人士认为，在费用效益分析上，医生应当起到一定作用，因为没什么其他人在从事这项工作。
“In some ways, it represents a failure of wider society to take up the issue,” said Dr. Daniel P. Sulmasy, professor of medicine and ethics at the University of Chicago.
“某种程度上，这表明外部社会没能处理这一问题，”芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的医学与伦理学教授丹尼尔·P·苏尔马西博士(Daniel P. Sulmasy)说。
Generally, Medicare is not supposed to consider cost effectiveness in coverage decisions, and other government attempts to do so are susceptible to criticism as rationing. Insurers do perform cost analyses, but they also risk ire from patients and doctors.
一般情况下，联邦医疗保险计划(Medicare)不应在医保决策上考虑成本有效性问题，政府所做的其他一些尝试也容易受到搞配给制的批评。保险机构的确会进行成本分析，不过它们也要冒上惹恼病人和医生的风险。
The cancer and oncology societies are not the only ones considering costs. A review last year of clinical guidelines issued by 30 of the largest physician specialty societies found that 17 of them explicitly integrated costs. That appeared to be an increase from 2002, when a different review had found more limited use of economic analysis.
癌症与肿瘤领域的学会不是唯一在考虑成本问题的团体。去年发表的一篇综述文章研究了30家规模最大的医师专业协会发布的临床指导意见，结果发现，17家明确列入了成本问题。这似乎比以前有所增加：另一项综述研究发现，2002年的时候对经济分析的采纳更为有限。
Also, in recent years, as part of a campaign called Choosing Wisely, many medical societies have submitted lists of the top five procedures, tests or products to be questioned because they are considered wasteful.
此外，“明智抉择”(Choosing Wisely)宣传运动近年来开展了一项活动，让许多医学会提供榜单，列出存疑的五大手术、检测或产品，理由是它们被认为是种浪费。
The cardiology societies say that the idea that doctors should ignore costs is unrealistic because they already have to consider the financial burden placed on the patient, if not society. “Protecting patients from financial ruin is fundamental to the precept of ‘do no harm,’ ” the societies wrote in their paper outlining the new policy.
心脏病学会表示，认为医生应当忽略成本的想法是不切实际的，因为就算还没考虑到全社会，他们已经不得不考虑病人身上的经济负担。“保护病人免于破产是‘不去伤害’原则的核心，”学会在给出新政策概要的文章中这样写道。
Still, it is unclear if medical societies are the best ones to make cost assessments. Doctors can have financial conflicts of interest and lack economic expertise.
虽说如此，医学会是否为进行成本评估的最佳机构，这一点并不明朗。医生或许会面临利益冲突问题，而且缺乏经济学专业知识。
The cardiology societies, for instance, plan for now to rely on published literature, not commission their own cost-effectiveness studies, said Dr. Paul A. Heidenreich, a professor at Stanford and co-chairman of the committee that wrote the new policy.
比方说，负责起草心脏病学会新政策的委员会联合主席、斯坦福教授保罗·A·海登赖希博士(Paul A. Heidenreich)表示，学会目前计划依靠已发表文献的帮助，而不是自行委托进行费用效益研究。