SEOUL, South Korea — A 24-year-old American who was detained in North Korea this month traveled there alone and left no contact information for his family, according to the New Jersey-based travel company that arranged his trip.
韩国首尔——总部位于新泽西州的一家旅行公司称，本月在朝鲜被扣的那名24岁美国人是独自赴朝旅行的，没有留下家人的联系方式。此人的旅行正是由该公司安排的。
The man, Matthew Todd Miller, was detained by North Korean officials for “rash behavior” at customs at the Pyongyang airport on April 10, the North’s state-run news media said Friday. North Korea accused him of tearing up his tourist visa and demanding asylum.
朝鲜官方新闻媒体周五报道称，4月10日，名为马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)的前述男子在平壤机场过海关时“行为鲁莽”，由此已被朝鲜官员扣留。根据朝鲜方面的指控，他撕毁了自己的旅游签证，并且要求避难。
Uri Tours, which arranged Mr. Miller’s trip, was “informed early on that Mr. Miller had deliberately ripped his visa and had declared that he was ‘not a tourist,’ ” the company’s director, John Dantzler-Wolfe, wrote in an email on Sunday. “Since that time, we have been working with the appropriate diplomatic, governmental and local agencies to resolve the situation.” Uri Tours posted similar information on its website.
米勒的旅行是由Uri Tours安排的，该公司总监约翰·丹齐莱尔-沃尔夫(John Dantzler-Wolfe)在周日的一封电子邮件中写道，公司“之前就收到了通知，称米勒故意撕毁了自己的签证，还声称自己‘不是游客’。从那时起，我们一直在与相应的外交机构、政府机构和当地机构合作，希望解决这件事情。”Uri Tours还在自己的网站上发布了相似的信息。
Mr. Miller signed up for a private tour, Mr. Dantzler-Wolfe said. As most private tour clients do, he chose to travel with local guides from Uri Tours’ North Korean partner, he said.
丹齐莱尔-沃尔夫说，米勒报名参加了私人游。他表示，和大部分私人游客户一样，米勒选择了与Uri Tours的朝鲜合作伙伴提供的导游同行。
“He did not indicate any special intentions in his tour application,” Mr. Dantzler-Wolfe said.
丹齐莱尔-沃尔夫说，“他没有在旅游申请中说明任何特殊目的。”
No family member has reached out to Uri Tours about Mr. Miller, Mr. Dantzler-Wolfe said. The company also has tried in vain to reach the emergency contact Mr. Miller provided in his application, he said.
丹齐莱尔-沃尔夫表示，米勒的家人尚未向Uri Tours打听他的情况。他说，公司曾尝试联系米勒在申请表中填写的紧急联络人，但却没有任何结果。
The State Department said that it was aware of Mr. Miller’s detention and that it was working with the Swedish Embassy in Pyongyang on the issue. Washington has no diplomatic relations with Pyongyang, and the Swedish Embassy has often represented the interests of American citizens in the country.
国务院表示已知晓米勒被扣一事，并称正在就此事与瑞典驻平壤大使馆进行合作。美国未与平壤建立外交关系，瑞典大使馆经常代表美国公民在朝鲜处理相关事务。