John A. Paulson, the hedge fund billionaire, already owns three Steinway & Sons pianos; the medium model M grand, the larger model O and the nearly seven-foot-long model B, together worth tens of thousands of dollars.
对冲基金业亿万富翁约翰·A·保尔森(John A. Paulson)已经拥有三架施坦威(Steinway & Sons)钢琴：一架型号M的中型三角钢琴，一架稍大的型号O，以及一架近7英尺长（实长211厘米）的型号B，加起来价值不菲。
But Mr. Paulson, in investing parlance, was looking to increase his exposure. On Wednesday, his firm, Paulson & Company, agreed to buy the company that makes the pianos, Steinway Musical Instruments, for $512 million.
不过，保尔森并不满足，用投资术语来说就是，他想要增加头寸。周三，他旗下的保尔森基金公司(Paulson & Company) 达成协议，将以5.12亿美元（约合31.3亿元人民币）收购生产这些钢琴的施坦威乐器公司(Steinway Musical Instruments)。
The move raised eyebrows both in the world of music and on Wall Street. Mr. Paulson made billions in 2007 largely with a bet against the housing market. His firm specializes in mortgages, gold and other financial assets. And while Paulson & Company owns stakes in companies, it has never before bought one outright.
此举让音乐界和华尔街都吃惊不小。保尔森2007年赚了数十亿美元，大部分靠的是做空房地产市场。他的公司专长于抵押贷款、黄金以及其它金融资产。而且，尽管保尔森基金公司拥有多家企业的股份，但从未全盘买下任何公司。
But Mr. Paulson said that the calculation was rather simple — he loves the pianos.
保尔森本人说，这笔交易背后的盘算很简单：他热爱钢琴。
“I’ve always been enamored with the product,” Mr. Paulson said in an interview on Wednesday. “You have Mercedes in cars, and top brands in every other area. But no one has such a high share of the high end.”
“我一直都对这东西很着迷，”保尔森周三接受采访时说。“汽车领域有奔驰(Mercedes)，其他任何领域也都有几个顶级品牌，但是没有一家可与施坦威在高端市场上的占有率匹敌。”
But while he got what he wanted within days of making his first offer, a bidding contest for Steinway broke out behind the scenes. In July, the private equity firm Kohlberg & Company said it had reached an agreement with Steinway to buy it for $35 a share. But Kohlberg bowed out of the running on Tuesday in the face of a bid from Paulson of $38 a share.
尽管他发出首份收购要约几天后就如愿以偿，但幕后爆发了争夺施坦威的竞购战。7月，私募公司科尔伯格(Kohlberg & Company)宣布与施坦威达成初步协议，以每股35美元进行收购。但是，面对保尔森每股38美元的出价，科尔伯格周二退出了竞争。
That same day, though, an additional challenger emerged — Samick Musical Instruments of South Korea, which is Steinway’s biggest shareholder. Using the code name “Edelweiss,” presumably in a reference to “The Sound of Music,” Samick offered $39 a share.
不过就在当天，又出现了另一名竞购者：施坦威最大的股东、韩国三益乐器株式会社(Samick Musical Instruments)。三益的要约代号是“雪绒花”——想必出自《音乐之声》(The Sound of Music)——出价是每股39美元。
But on Wednesday morning, Steinway, whose stock ticker symbol is LVB, for Ludwig van Beethoven, pronounced Mr. Paulson the winner after his firm had increased its bid to $40 a share.
但在周三早晨，施坦威宣布，保尔森的公司把出价增至每股40美元，使他成为赢家。施坦威的交易代号为LVB，是路德维希·范·贝多芬(Ludwig van Beethoven)的缩写。
“We’re fortunate in this case that John is a personal fan of our product,” Michael T. Sweeney, Steinway’s chairman and chief executive, said on Wednesday. “His love for the instrument gives him the insight as to how we can build the business.”
施坦威的董事长兼首席执行官迈克尔·T·斯威尼(Michael T. Sweeney)周三表示，“我们在这笔交易中很幸运，因为约翰本人仰慕我们的产品。他对乐器的热爱使他拥有洞见，知道我们应如何打造施坦威。”
While the deal is done, there is still a chance that a higher bid may emerge, and Steinway is allowed to consider unsolicited offers.
尽管交易达成了，但仍有可能出现更高的出价，而施坦威可以考虑其他主动提出的收购要约。
In the world of music, Steinway is not just another company. Founded in 1853 by a German immigrant in Manhattan, Henry Engelhard Steinway, and his three sons, Steinway pianos became an icon in concert halls and living rooms. Steinway spends almost a year building each grand piano, and the result, its devotees say, is an unmatched quality of sound. The announcement in March that the company was selling its famous showroom on West 57th Street in Manhattan was greeted in many quarters with sorrow.
在音乐界，施坦威绝不是泛泛之辈。公司1853年在曼哈顿成立，创始人是德国移民亨利·恩格尔哈德·施坦威(Henry Engelhard Steinway)及其三个儿子。施坦威钢琴后来成为音乐厅和起居室的标志性物件。打造每一架三角钢琴，施坦威都要花上差不多一年时间。乐迷们声称，结果就是施坦威的音质无可匹敌。今年3月，该公司宣布出售位于曼哈顿西57街的知名的陈列厅，让许多人难受。
Still, the financial maneuvering left some of Steinway’s devotees full of concern as they recalled difficult times in the past. With piano factories in Astoria, Queens, and Hamburg, Germany, the company was family-owned until 1972, when it was sold to the CBS Corporation, an owner that many aficionados believed sacrificed quality in pursuit of higher profits.
不过，金融运作令一些施坦威的乐迷非常担忧，他们回忆起过去的艰难时光。该公司曾是家族企业，在纽约皇后区阿斯托里亚街区和德国汉堡拥有钢琴工厂，直到1972年才被出售给CBS集团(CBS Corporation)。许多乐迷认为，这家母公司为追求更高的利润而牺牲了钢琴质量。
CBS cut costs, changed the management and pushed Steinway to produce more pianos, said Frank M. Mazurco, who started as a sales representative in Cincinnati and rose to become executive vice president of Steinway before he retired in 2007.
弗兰克·M·马楚尔科(Frank M. Mazurco)说，CBS削减了成本，改组了管理层，并推动施坦威生产更多钢琴。马楚尔科从担任施坦威在辛辛那提的一名销售代表干起，逐渐晋升至执行副总裁，他在2007年退休。
“We had to do a lot of damage control,” Mr. Mazurco said. “It wasn’t a good fit.”
“那时，我们不得不做很多损害控制，”马楚尔科说。“（母公司和子公司）不太相配。”
Leon Botstein, the musical director of the American Symphony Orchestra in New York and the president of Bard College, said the CBS period should be a “warning” to Mr. Paulson. Steinway was eventually sold in 1985 to investors in Boston, and, after changing hands again, it went public in 1996.
纽约的美国交响乐团(American Symphony Orchestra)的音乐总监、巴德学院(Bard College)院长利昂·博特斯坦(Leon Botstein)称，对于保尔森来说，CBS时期应当成为一个“警示”。施坦威最终于1985年被出售给波士顿的投资者，后来再度易手，并于1996年上市。
“Let’s hope it’s a hedge fund with some idealism, with interest in something more than the everlasting buck,” Mr. Botstein said.
“希望这是一家有点理想主义的对冲基金，除了不断追求美元之外，还能有点别的兴趣，”博特斯坦说。
Mr. Paulson vowed to keep the business largely as it is. He indicated that he had no plans to close, relocate or change any of Steinway’s manufacturing operations.
保尔森誓言要将该公司业务基本上保持原样。他表示，没有任何计划想要关闭、搬迁或改变施坦威的制造业务。
Instead, Mr. Paulson said his strategy centers on expanding Steinway’s reach around the world. He is also betting that the improving economy and strengthening housing market will help the sales of Steinway pianos, a luxury item that proved to be out of reach in recent years, even for its usual wealthier clientele.
相反，保尔森说，他的战略关注于把施坦威的生意扩大到世界各地。他还断言，经济好转和房地产市场走强将有助于施坦威钢琴的销售。近年这种奢侈品被证明是超出承受范围的，即便对较富裕的潜在顾客人群也不例外。
One analyst, Arnold Ursaner of CJS Securities, said it was not surprising that Mr. Paulson — who donated $100 million to the Central Park Conservancy last year — was making a play for Steinway.
CJS证券公司(CJS Securities)分析师阿诺德·阿桑那(Arnold Ursaner)表示，去年曾向纽约中央公园保护协会(Central Park Conservancy)捐赠1亿美元的保尔森，收购施坦威并不让人惊讶。
“You have a global luxury brand,” Mr. Ursaner said. “It’s no different from a painting or a magnificent Fifth Avenue apartment.”
“你拥有了一个全球奢侈品牌，”阿桑那说。“这和一幅名画或一套富丽堂皇的第五大道公寓没什么不同。”
Today, Steinway has expanded beyond pianos to sell horns, clarinets, saxophones and drums. It so happens that that aspect of the business is right up Mr. Paulson’s alley.
如今，施坦威已扩充产品范围，除了钢琴外，还有圆号、单簧管、萨克斯管和鼓。碰巧，这些产品正是保尔森所熟悉的。
Though Mr. Paulson is not a pianist, he played the drums, clarinet and saxophone when he was a teenager and into his 20s, eventually setting them aside when he could not keep up the necessary commitment.
尽管保尔森不弹钢琴，但在他十几岁到二十来岁时，曾经玩过鼓、单簧管和萨克斯管，最终因时间和精力所限，才放弃这方面的爱好。
To Mr. Botstein, Mr. Paulson’s musical background is a positive sign.
在博特斯坦看来，保尔森有音乐背景是件好事。
“He bought something with a huge moral responsibility,” Mr. Botstein said. “It would be a tragedy if this were to be abused or exploited. It needs to be treated with love and with care.”
“他购买了带有巨大道德责任的东西，”博特斯坦说。“如果这一品牌被滥用或过度利用，那将是个悲剧。它需要得到关爱。”