WASHINGTON — FOR the last two years, many people in the foreign policy community, myself included, have argued repeatedly for the use of force in Syria — to no avail. We have been pilloried as warmongers and targeted, by none other than President Obama, as people who do not understand that force is not the solution to every question. A wiser course, he argued at West Point, is to use force only in defense of America’s vital interests.
华盛顿——过去两年里，外交政策界有很多人，包括我自己在内，都曾多次主张在叙利亚使用武力——结果只是白费口舌。我们被嘲笑为战争贩子，还有人说我们不明白武力并非解决一切问题的良方；这么说的不是别人，正是奥巴马总统。他在西点军校(West Point)发言时称，更明智的做法是，只有在捍卫美国的关键利益的时候才使用武力。
Suddenly, however, in the space of a week, the administration has begun considering the use of force in Iraq, including drones, against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, which has been occupying city after city and moving ever closer to Baghdad.
但是才过了一周，突然之间，政府就已经开始考虑在伊拉克使用包括无人机在内的武力打击方式，以对抗“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS），该组织占据了一座又一座伊拉克城市，现已逼近巴格达。
The sudden turn of events leaves people like me scratching our heads. Why is the threat of ISIS in Iraq a sufficiently vital interest, but not the rise of ISIS in Syria — and a hideous civil war that has dismembered Syria itself and destabilized Lebanon, Jordan and now Iraq?
事态的突然转向，让我等不禁挠头。为什么ISIS在伊拉克的举动就对美国的切身利益形成了足够大的威胁，而ISIS在叙利亚的崛起就不是呢？严重的叙利亚内战不仅让该国四分五裂，而且还波及黎巴嫩和约旦，现在又轮到了伊拉克。
I suspect White House officials would advance three reasons.
我怀疑白宫官员会列出三方面的原因。
First, they would say, the fighters in Iraq include members of Al Qaeda. But that ignores recent history. Experts have predicted for over a year that unless we acted in Syria, ISIS would establish an Islamic state in eastern Syria and western Iraq, exactly what we are watching. So why not take them on directly in Syria, where their demise would strengthen the moderate opposition?
首先，他们会说，伊拉克的武装分子中有基地组织成员。但是，这种说法忽略了近况。一年之前就有专家预测过，如果我们不在叙利亚采取行动，那么ISIS将在叙利亚东部和伊拉克西部建立一个伊斯兰国，就是我们现在关注的那片区域。那么，为什么不直接就在叙利亚干掉他们呢？在那里消灭他们本来可以帮助温和的反对派发展壮大。
Because, the White House might say, of the second reason, the Iraqi government is asking for help. That makes the use of force legitimate under international law, whereas in Syria the same government that started the killing, deliberately fanned the flames of civil war, and will not allow humanitarian aid to starving and mortally ill civilians, objects to the use of force against it.
白宫可能会举出的第二个原因是，伊拉克政府向美国寻求了帮助，因此在那里使用武力符合国际法的规定，而叙利亚政府反对对该国使用武力——虽然在本国大开杀戒，故意煽动内战火焰，不允许国际社会对忍饥挨饿、伤病严重的平民提供人道主义援助的，也正是这个政府。
But here the law sets the interests of the Iraqi government against those of its people. It allows us to help a government that has repeatedly violated power-sharing agreements in ways that have driven Sunni support for ISIS. And from a strategic point of view, it is a government that is deeply in Iran’s pocket — to the extent, as Fareed Zakaria reported in his Washington Post column last week, that Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki would not agree to a residual American force because the Iranians forbade it.
但是，这种法律令伊拉克政府的利益与该国公众的利益相抵触。它让我们可以去帮助一个再三违反权力分享协议、促使逊尼派去支持ISIS的政府。而且从战略角度来看，这个政府还唯伊朗是从——程度非常严重，正如法里德·扎卡里亚(Fareed Zakaria)上周在他的《华盛顿邮报》专栏中报道的：由于伊朗人不允许，伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)不会同意美军在该国驻扎留守部队。
The third reason the White House would give is that America fought a decade-long war in Iraq, at a terrible cost. We overturned a stable, strong but brutal government, although far less brutal than President Bashar al-Assad’s has proved to be, and left a weak and unstable government. We cannot allow our soldiers to have fought in vain, the argument goes, so we should now prop up the government we left in place.
第三个原因，白宫可能会说，美国打了十年之久的伊拉克战争，付出了惨重代价。我们推翻了一个稳定、强大，但残酷的政府——虽然事实已经证明，那个政府远不如叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的那么残酷——然后在伊拉克留下了一个软弱的、不稳定的政府。我们不能让士兵的血汗白流，所以我们现在应该支持当初我们扶植上台的政府。
This is where the White House is most blind. It sees the world on two planes: the humanitarian world of individual suffering, where no matter how heart-rending the pictures and how horrific the crimes, American vital interests are not engaged because it is just people; and the strategic world of government interests, where what matters is the chess game of one leader against another, and stopping both state and nonstate actors who are able to harm the United States.
这就是白宫最忽视事实的地方。它把世界分为两种：一种是公众受苦受难的人道主义世界，那里的情况无论多么令人痛心，罪行多么骇人听闻，但是与美国的关键利益无关，因为受损的只是公众；另一种是事关政府利益的战略世界，在那里，重要的是领导者之间博弈的棋局，以及制约那些可以令美国受损的政府和非政府势力。
In fact, the two planes are inextricably linked. When a government begins to massacre its own citizens, with chemical weapons, barrel bombs and starvation, as Syria’s continues to do, it must be stopped. If it is not stopped, violence, displacement and fanaticism will flourish.
实际上，这两个世界紧密联系在一起。如果一个政府开始利用化学武器、油桶炸弹屠杀自己的国民，或使他们饿死，我们必须进行阻止，而叙利亚政府仍在这么做。如果不阻止，就会出现大量暴力现象、流离失所的民众，以及宗教狂热。
Deciding that the Syrian government, as bad as it is, was still better than the alternative of ISIS profoundly missed the point. As long as we allow the Syrian government to continue perpetrating the worst campaign of crimes against humanity since Rwanda, support for ISIS will continue. As long as we choose Prime Minister Maliki over the interests of his citizens, all his citizens, his government can never be safe.
有人说，尽管叙利亚政府非常差劲，但它仍好于ISIS——这样的判断完全没有抓住重点。只要我们允许叙利亚政府继续实施自卢旺达大屠杀以来最严重的反人类罪行，ISIS就会继续得到支持。
President Obama should be asking the same question in Iraq and Syria. What course of action will be best, in the short and the long term, for the Iraqi and Syrian people? What course of action will be most likely to stop the violence and misery they experience on a daily basis? What course of action will give them the best chance of peace, prosperity and a decent government?
对于伊拉克和叙利亚，奥巴马总统应该问同样的问题。从短期及长远来看，什么样的行动方针最有利于伊拉克及叙利亚人民？什么样的方针最有可能使他们不再遭受每天经历的暴力及苦难？什么样的方针最有可能使他们实现和平、繁荣，拥有一个令人满意的政府？
The answer to those questions may well involve the use of force on a limited but immediate basis, in both countries. Enough force to remind all parties that we can, from the air, see and retaliate against not only Al Qaeda members, whom our drones track for months, but also any individuals guilty of mass atrocities and crimes against humanity. Enough force to compel governments and rebels alike to the negotiating table. And enough force to create a breathing space in which decent leaders can begin to consolidate power.
答案可能包括在这两个国家直接但有限度地使用武力。充分的武力可以提醒各方，我们不仅能够通过空中力量，发现并报复基地组织成员——我们的无人机可以在数月的时间里一直对他们进行追踪，还可以打击任何实施大规模暴行、犯下反人类罪行的个人。充分的武力会迫使政府及叛乱分子参加谈判。充分的武力也能够带来一个喘息的空间，让那些还算令人满意的领导人可以开始巩固权力。
On the legal side, we should act in both countries because we face a threat to global peace and security, precisely the situation the United Nations Security Council was established to address. If nations like Russia and China block action for their own narrow interests, we should act multilaterally, as we did in Kosovo, and then seek the Council’s approval after the fact. The United Nations Charter was created for peace among the people of the world, not as an instrument of state power.
说到法律，我们应该在这两国采取行动，因为我们面临的是对全球和平与安全的威胁，成立联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)就是为了处理这种情况。如果俄罗斯、中国等国家为了自己的狭隘利益阻止行动，我们应该采取多边行动——就像在科索沃采取的行动一样，事后再寻求安理会的支持。《联合国宪章》(the United Nations Charter)是保障世界人民和平共处的法律，而不是行使国家权力的工具。