WASHINGTON — Congress is likely to postpone consideration of an immigration overhaul until the end of the year, if not longer, even as advocates are preparing for an all-out, urgent push this fall to win their longstanding goal of a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants here illegally.
华盛顿——尽管支持者正准备在今秋进行一次倾尽全力的、紧急的行动，以实现让美国数百万非法移民获得公民身份的夙愿，但国会还是可能会推迟到今年年底甚至更久以后再考虑此事。
In Washington, the sudden debate over military action in Syria and a looming face-off with President Obama over the budget and the nation’s borrowing limit have shot to the top of the legislative agenda, while Republican angst about losing Hispanic voters in the 2012 presidential campaign has faded.
在华盛顿，突如其来的有关在叙利亚开展军事行动的辩论，以及即将在预算和国债上限问题上与奥巴马总统展开的对决，已经成为立法议程中的头等大事，而在2012年大选期间共和党害怕失去西语裔选民的担心已经渐渐消退。
In the House, where many Republicans view an overhaul bill passed by the Senate as a federal juggernaut that is too kind to immigrant lawbreakers, the legislative summer recess has done little to stoke enthusiasm for immediate action. Senior Republican aides in the House say immigration is at the back of the line, and unlikely to come up for months.
在众议院，许多共和党人认为，参议院通过的改革法案是联邦的一个惊天动地的莽撞之举，对违反移民法的人太仁慈，而夏季的立法休会期间也没能燃起什么采取迅速行动的热情。众议院的共和党高级助手称，移民问题不在现在的考虑范围之内，而且几个月之内也不太可能考虑。
The prospect of a delay is generating frustration among supporters of the legislation, who felt emboldened by a summer in which conservative opposition in House districts largely fizzled and immigrant groups seized the chance to lobby lawmakers on their home turf.
可能会被延迟这一点让法案支持者很沮丧。在这个夏天，国会选区里保守的反对派基本上没发出什么大的声音，移民团体也抓住了在议员的家乡游说他们的机会，这都让法案支持者倍受鼓舞。
“We believe they can walk and chew gum at the same time,” said Eliseo Medina, who leads the immigration campaign for the Service Employees International Union, referring to members of Congress. “The more they delay, the worse it will be for them.”
“我们相信他们不是不能一边走路一边嚼口香糖，”服务业雇员国际工会(Service Employees International Union)领导移民运动的埃利塞奥·梅迪纳(Eliseo Medina)说国会议员们“越往后推迟，对他们就越不妙”。
Throughout August, immigration groups organized hundreds of visits to Congressional offices, town hall-style meetings, vigils, marches and rallies, creating a constant buzz in the districts of many House lawmakers, particularly Republicans. On Wednesday, advocates delivered 600,000 petitions to the West Chester, Ohio, offices of Speaker John A. Boehner the old-fashioned way, in dozens of stacks of signed papers. On Sunday, Catholic priests around the country preached for a comprehensive immigration overhaul.
在整个8月，移民团体组织了数百次国会办公室探访、市政厅式集会、烛光请愿、游行和集会，在许多众议员、尤其是共和党人所在选区不断造势。周三，倡议者用老式的方法，向众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)位于俄亥俄州西切斯特的办公室寄送了几十堆有签名的文件，那是60万份请愿书。周日，全国的天主教神父在布道时呼吁全面的移民改革法案。
At a Mass devoted to immigration in Cincinnati, a mix of Catholics, including immigrants from Mexico and Central America and African-Americans, prayed for Congress to act.
在辛辛那提一场为移民改革法案举办的弥撒上，背景各异的天主教徒一同祈祷，希望国会采取行动，这其中包括来自墨西哥和中美洲的移民以及非洲裔美国人。
“Families in our communities are being ripped apart by deportations, and the system is in chaos,” said Tony Stieritz, director of Catholic Social Action for the Cincinnati Archdiocese, who helped organize the Mass. “A vote for delay is a vote for crisis and disorder in the current system.”
“我们社区的家庭有的因成员被驱逐出境而妻离子散，整个制度一片混乱，”辛辛那提总教区(Cincinnati Archdiocese)天主教社会行动(Catholic Social Action)负责人、本次弥撒的组织者托尼·斯蒂利兹(Tony Stieritz)说，“投票支持延期就是投票支持当前制度中的危机和混乱。”
The gulf between the expectations of advocates and the reality they face in Washington is widening every day. As they feel momentum slipping away, their anger is likely to intensify this fall.
拥护者的期望与他们在华盛顿面临的现实之间的差距每天都在拉大。伴随着改革势头一天天消退的感觉，他们的愤怒可能会在秋天加剧。
And time is not on their side. In June, the Senate passed a bipartisan plan to overhaul border security and grant illegal immigrants a chance to earn citizenship. If the House does not take up the immigration issue until 2014, members will face the prospect of voting on a highly contentious issue in the middle of a Congressional election year.
他们的时间并不充裕。6月，参议院通过了两党共同制定的一份改革边境安全法案并准许非法移民有机会获得公民身份的计划。如果众议院2014年才着手考虑这个移民问题，议员们就有可能需要在一个国会选举年中对这个极具争议的问题进行投票。
Republican primaries will begin in the spring, and many lawmakers may be reluctant to overhaul the immigration system just before facing their conservative constituents. If Congress does not complete action early next year, Congressional aides said, the issue could be delayed until after the November elections.
共和党的初选将于春季开始，许多议员可能不愿在直面保守的选民前改革移民制度。国会助手称，如果国会不在明年年初完成操作，这个问题便可能会被推迟到11月的选举结束后。
But leaders of groups supporting an immigration overhaul say they do not plan to let up.
但支持对移民制度进行改革的团体的领导人称，他们不打算停下来。
The organizations plan a mobilization in early October, with rallies in at least 40 cities on Oct. 5 followed by a march and rally in Washington on Oct. 8. Convinced that a majority exists in the House for the legislation, they will press for Mr. Boehner to allow a vote before the end of the year. Leaders said the Syria debate and the fiscal fight should not become “excuses” to set aside immigration.
这些团体计划在10月初进行一次动员，具体是10月5日在至少40个城市举行集会，10月8日在华盛顿举行一场游行集会。他们相信这项法案在众议院是得到多数支持的，因此会敦促博纳批准在年底前进行投票。这些团体的领导人称，有关叙利亚问题的辩论和财政之争不应成为把移民问题放在一边的“借口”。
Many immigration advocates said they were especially pleased that conservative activists and talk radio hosts had failed to generate significant opposition to an overhaul in August.
这项移民法案的许多倡导者表示，保守派活动人士和广播电台谈话节目主持人在8月未能激起对改革移民制度的强烈反对，他们对此特别高兴。
At a rally in Richmond, Va., last month that was billed as a Tea Party show of strength, Representative Steve King of Iowa, a Republican who is an outspoken foe of any legal status for illegal immigrants, found himself addressing a nearly empty plaza.
上月，弗吉尼亚州里士满举行的一场集会被宣传成是茶党(Tea Party)实力的展现，但在集会上，来自艾奥瓦州的共和党众议员斯蒂夫·金(Steve King)发现自己在对着几乎空无一人的广场发表演讲。
By contrast, the Alliance for Citizenship, a coalition of pro-overhaul groups, said it logged nearly 1,200 events last month, from polite office visits to noisy street protests. Several dozen marchers walked from Sacramento to Bakersfield, Calif., hoping to evoke the farmworker protests of the 1960s. While few of the actions made national news, the groups kept up a drumbeat in Republican districts they identified as strategic. The alliance reported that 25 House Republicans had come out in favor of an overhaul including legalization during the recess.
相比之下，由支持改革移民制度的团体组成的公民权联盟(Alliance for Citizenship)称，上月举行了近1200次活动，有礼貌的办公室拜访，也有到喧闹的街头抗议。几十名游行者从加州的萨克拉门托步行到了贝克斯菲尔德，希望让人们想起上世纪60年代的农场工人抗议。这些行动鲜有成为全国性新闻的，但这些团体一直在自认为具有战略意义、由共和党把持的选区举行活动。该联盟称，国会休会期间，已有25名共和党众议员支持改革移民，包括让非法移民获得合法身份。
Bibles, Badges and Business, a conservative coalition favoring the overhaul, dispatched representatives to more than 60 town hall-style meetings, to respond if opponents turned out in force. But Ali Noorani, a leader of the coalition, said no groundswell of rage had appeared, while support among conservatives appeared to be growing.
支持改革移民制度的保守派联盟“圣经、徽章及商业”团体(Bibles, Badges and Business)派代表参加了60多场市镇集会式的见面活动，以便在出现大量反对者时采取应对措施。但该联盟的一名领导人阿里·努拉尼(Ali Noorani)称，并未出现愤怒的浪潮，保守派中对改革移民制度的支持似乎是在增多。
But that activity does not appear to have significantly altered the debate in Washington, in part because Syria is overshadowing other issues. Republican officials in the House say they will continue to consider a piece-by-piece approach to particular immigration issues in the weeks ahead. But the possibility of working out a comprehensive overhaul with the Senate and the president will have to wait, they say.
但这一现象似乎并未显著影响华盛顿的辩论，这部分是因为叙利亚问题转移了人们对其他问题的注意。众议院的共和党官员称，在未来数周，他们将继续考虑用分阶段逐步解决的方式应对移民问题。但他们说，同参议院和总统一起制定出一份全面的改革方案还需要一些时日。
“In terms of getting anything on the floor, you’re certainly going to have to wait until something happens on the fiscal debate,” one senior Republican leadership aide said, adding that “the more contentious things you put on the schedule, the harder it is to do the thing that goes last.”
“说到把法案拿到国会讨论，肯定要等到财政争论有定论后，”共和党领导层的一名高级助手说。这名助手接着说，“日程上有争议的事情越多，就越难进行最后那件事。”