He lost a phone, but gained a friend in China. The BuzzFeed editor Matt Stopera, who chronicled the theft of his iPhone in a New York bar and the bizarre series of images that began appearing in his photo stream, has finally met the Chinese man who received his stolen device.
他失去了一部手机，却在中国得到了一位朋友。BuzzFeed网站编辑马特·斯托佩拉(Matt Stopera)按事情发生的顺序记载了他的iPhone在纽约一家酒吧被盗，一系列奇怪的图片开始在自己的照片流中出现，最终与那位得到他被盗手机的中国男子见面的故事。
Mr. Stopera landed in the southern Chinese province of Guangdong on Tuesday evening and was greeted at the airport by “Brother Orange,” as Li Hongjun became known to millions for the selfies in front of a kumquat bush that helped Mr. Stopera trace his phone. Mr. Li was standing with bouquet in hand amid a sea of reporters.
斯托佩拉周二晚飞抵中国南方的广东省，在机场受到“橘子哥”的迎接。“橘子哥”本名李洪君，让他在网上数百万人中闻名的绰号来自他金桔树丛前的自拍照，这些照片帮助斯托佩拉找到了自己的手机。李洪君手持鲜花站在机场出口，一起等待的还有一大群记者。
Later that night, Mr. Stopera and Mr. Li went off for a bowl of local noodles, images of which Mr. Li had posted on Sina Weibo earlier as one of the treats that awaited his American guest.
当天晚上，斯托佩拉和李洪君去吃了当地的面条。李洪君曾在早些时候把面条的图片发在自己的新浪微博上，表示那是等候即将到来的美国客人的美食之一。
After a night of rest, the men proceeded to Mr. Li’s village in Meizhou, Mr. Li said in a telephone interview on Wednesday.
李洪君在接受电话采访时说，休息了一夜之后，他们两人一起前往李洪君的梅州老家。
Mr. Li said that he was taking several days off from work to show Mr. Stopera around tourist sites and introduce him to local culture. He owns a restaurant called Jade Tea Farm, and culinary delicacies have been a big theme of his communications with Mr. Stopera.
李洪君说，为了带斯托佩拉游览附近景点、向他介绍当地的文化，自己请了几天假。李洪君经营着一家名为“玉茶场”(Jade Tea Farm)的餐馆，美味佳肴是他与斯托佩拉通信的主要话题。
“I’m very happy and very excited,” Mr. Li said. “I plan to take him to some scenic areas.”
“我非常高兴、非常兴奋，”李洪君说，“我打算带他去几个旅游景点。”
In the days leading up to Mr. Stopera’s arrival, Brother Orange disclosed that he had been trying to learn English and posted video clips of himself studying. Mr. Stopera, responding to Weibo users who had asked him to teach them English, had begun this month to post English lesson videos online, some of which feature him saying “bread” and “honey” in an American grocery store and “cactus” while standing on a rooftop. He has said he has been studying Mandarin.
“橘子哥”透露，在斯托佩拉到来前的日子里，他一直在努力学习英语，还在网上发过自己学习的视频片段。作为对微博用户要求他教授英语的响应，斯托佩拉从本月初开始，在网上发布英语学习视频，其中有他在美国一家杂货店里说“bread（面包）”和“honey（蜂蜜）”的画面，还有他站在屋顶上说“cactus（仙人掌）”的画面。他说，他一直在学习普通话。
The two men’s planned encounter attracted extraordinary attention.
他们两人见面的计划引起了人们的高度关注。
Mr. Stopera, who acquired his own Sina Weibo account and attracted more than 160,000 followers in just under a month, wrote on Twitter on Wednesday morning: “Basically, now I know what it feels like to be Kim K at LAX with Kanye and Northwest.” He also wrote that he’s been riding around in “a fleet of cars with Bro Orange’s face on it.”
斯托佩拉在新浪微博建立了自己的帐号，在不到一个月的时间里吸引了逾16万粉丝，他周三上午在Twitter上写道：“现在我大体上知道金·卡(Kim K)带着坎耶(Kanye)和诺丝·韦斯特(North West)一起出现在洛杉矶国际机场时是什么感觉了。”他还写道，带自己出行的是“外面有橘子哥画像的汽车车队”。
For Mr. Li, it led to many interviews with Chinese news outlets and, last week, a guest appearance on a television cooking show, where he promoted Hakka dishes.
对李洪君来说，这件事让他受到中国新闻媒体的多次采访，上周，他还在一个电视烹饪节目中担任嘉宾，得以在那里推销客家菜。
The link between the two strangers from opposite sides of the world was the iPhone that Mr. Stopera lost in an East Village bar in February 2014. In January, unexpected images began appearing in his photo stream, and Mr. Stopera posted queries about the identity of the man shown standing in front of a kumquat bush. After Mr. Stopera’s story was translated into Chinese, readers helped track down the man who was dubbed Brother Orange. Mr. Li’s nephew, who is accompanying Mr. Li this week, has said his uncle received the phone as a gift from a distant relative.
把这两位来自世界两头的陌生人连接起来的，是斯托佩拉2014年2月在纽约东村(East Village)一家酒吧丢失的iPhone手机。今年1月，意想不到的图片开始在他的照片流中出现，斯托佩拉在网上发出询问，想找到站在金桔树丛前的男子的身份。斯托佩拉的故事被翻译成中文后，读者帮他找到那个绰号为“橘子哥”的男子。李洪君的侄子说，叔叔的手机是一个远房亲戚送的，这个侄子本周陪李洪君一起招待客人。
Although the two men have not publicly mentioned the iPhone since Mr. Stopera’s arrival — Mr. Stopera had indicated before his trip that he had come to terms with the loss of his phone — Mr. Li expressed concern in recent days as to whether Mr. Stopera would have a mobile device he could use in China, and he offered to set up a temporary one for him.
自从斯托佩拉来到这里后，两人还没有在公开场合提及那部iPhone手机，斯托佩拉启程前曾表示，他已接受了手机丢失的现实，而李洪君几天前曾对斯托佩拉带的手机是否在中国能用表示关注，并提出可以为他提供一部临时手机。