WASHINGTON — House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, the nation’s highest-ranking elected Republican, said Thursday that he was “not ready” to endorse Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee. 
华盛顿——众议院议长、当今美国位阶最高的民选共和党人保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)在周四表示，他还“没准备好”支持共和党提名大热人选唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。
Ryan, who is also chairman of the Republican National Convention, has repeatedly said he would support his party’s nominee. But he has carved out some terrain to differentiate himself, by insisting that House Republicans write their own policy agenda this year and by giving speeches that at times criticized Trump’s views. Ryan said Republicans needed a “standard-bearer” who embodied the party’s standards. 
兼任共和党全国大会(Republican National Convention)主席的瑞安此前反复表示会支持本党提名人。但是他坚持今年要让众议院共和党人自己来决定政策议程，并多次在讲话中批评特朗普的观点，因此也算奋力拉开了一些距离。瑞安说共和党人需要一个“旗手”，能够体现本党的准则。
“I don’t want to underplay what he accomplished,” Ryan said about Trump. But he added, “We hope that our nominee aspires to be Lincoln and Reaganesque,” someone who “appeals to a vast majority of Americans.” 
“我不想贬低他的成就，”瑞安在谈及特朗普时说。但是他又说，“我们希望我们的提名人有志于成为林肯和里根式的人物，”一个能够“得到大多数美国人支持”的人。
“I think conservatives want to know does he share our values and our principles,” he said. “There’s a lot of questions conservatives are going to want answers to.” 
“我认为保守派人士想知道的是，他是否和我们有着共同的价值观和原则，”他说。“保守派人士有很多问题需要得到解答。”
His comments Thursday differed from other Republican lawmakers this week who have offered tempered support for Trump. 
他在周四的言论不同于其他共和党议员在本周的表态，他们对特朗普表达了有所保留的支持。
“I have committed to supporting the nominee chosen by Republican voters, and Donald Trump, the presumptive nominee, is now on the verge of clinching that nomination,” Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader, said in a statement this week. 
“我决心支持共和党选民选择的提名人，而唐纳德·特朗普作为提名大热，距离拿到提名仅一步之遥，”肯塔基州共和党参议员、参议院多数派领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)在本周的一份声明中说。
Many Republicans have been expecting Ryan to spend his time this summer and fall shoring up vulnerable House Republicans, particularly those running in districts where Trump is unpopular, rather than stumping for the nominee. 
许多共和党人期待瑞安在这个夏天和秋天致力于巩固众议院共和党人岌岌可危的地位——尤其是在那些特朗普不受欢迎的地区参选的人，而不是去为提名人呐喊助威。
Ryan has at times taken direct shots at Trump. After Trump proposed a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States, Ryan strongly disagreed. “This is not conservatism,” Ryan said in December. “What was proposed yesterday is not what this party stands for, and more importantly, it’s not what this country stands for.” 
瑞安曾多次对特朗普发起直接攻击。特朗普提出暂时禁止穆斯林进入美国后，瑞安表达了强烈反对。“这不是保守主义，”瑞安在去年十二月说。“昨天的提议不代表本党立场，更重要的是，也不代表这个国家的立场。”