Brenden Heiland had breathed the vanilla lavender-scented clubhouse air. He had seen the beach volleyball court, toured the game room equipped with billiards, Ping-Pong and air hockey tables, and learned with delight of the Friday pool parties with a D.J., free food and snow cones, spiked with rum for those of age.
布伦登·海兰特(Brenden Heiland)呼吸着会所里带着香草和薰衣草香味的空气。他之前还看了沙滩排球场，参观了配备有台球桌、乒乓球桌和桌上曲棍球的游戏厅，欣喜地了解到周五泳池派对上除了有现场DJ、免费的美食和刨冰，还有到了法定饮酒年龄的人可以品尝的朗姆酒。
Now, as he and the three friends he was apartment hunting with stood peering at the pool, Mr. Heiland, 19, pondered what life might be like if he chose to live in this off-campus complex, the Grove, when his sophomore year at the University of Missouri begins this fall.
海兰特今年19岁，与他的三个朋友正在寻找合适的学生公寓。此刻他凝视着泳池，想象如果他选择住到这个名为格罗夫(Grove)的校外高档学生公寓，他的生活将会怎样。今年秋季，他将在密苏里大学(University of Missouri)开始大二学年。
“It’s like a vacation, almost,” he said. “I’m not going to go to class — that’s how I look at it.”
“这几乎就像在度假，”他说，“我可能没心思去上课了——我猜恐怕就是这样。”
As private housing developers try harder than ever to outdo the amenities that their competitors offer in college towns, concern is growing about the academic and social consequences of upscale off-campus student housing.
如今私营房产开发商都在千方百计提高配套设施规格，以期超越大学城的竞争对手，但人们越来越担心校外高档学生公寓对学生学业及社交的负面影响。
The spas, tanning salons and sprawling pools offered by these complexes, which often require their tenants to be students, are a far cry from the traditional on-campus residence halls that may house classrooms and faculty and host lectures and academic discussions.
这些综合公寓配备了水疗中心、美黑沙龙以及大型游泳池，通常只租给学生，而传统的校内宿舍区可能配备教室，住有教职工，举办学术讲座以及学术讨论，两者相差甚远。
“These are sort of more social environments,” said Arthur J. Lidsky, the president of Dober Lidsky Mathey, a campus planning consultancy. “It takes away from sort of a community of learners, and it creates more of a separate living environment that doesn’t support that mission.”
校园规划顾问公司Dober Lidsky Mathey的总裁亚瑟•利茨基(Arthur J. Lidsky)说：“这些校外公寓更像社交场所，它取代了孜孜学习的氛围，营造出的更为隔绝的生活空间不再支持学习的使命。”
Even through the recession and the housing crisis, student housing development has remained robust, outperforming other sectors in part because the rising college student population increased the demand for accommodations. Construction of student housing, though down from its peak five years ago, continues to boom, and analysts predict growth in the coming years.
即使在美国经济衰退和房地产危机期间，学生公寓开发项目依旧火热，美国大学每年入学人数不断攀升，使得学生公寓供不应求，因此对于开发商来说学生公寓远胜于其他房地产项目。虽然和五年前的鼎盛时期相比，学生公寓在建项目数量有所下降，但是依旧欣欣向荣，而且根据分析师预测，市场未来几年的需求还将继续增长。
Here in Columbia, a growing supply of upscale student apartments is the result of private developers meeting the demand that the university could not keep up with as its enrollment ballooned. Developers have created more than 3,800 beds of student housing in town since 2011, according to data compiled by John John, a real estate agent here with Remax Boone Realty. But even that pace of development falls short of the need, which Mr. John predicted would grow in the future as Missouri’s freshman population climbs. (It is up more than 28 percent since 2007.)
在密苏里州的哥伦比亚市，由于密苏里大学校内公寓无法及时跟上扩招的步伐，私人房地产开发商开始增建高档的校外学生公寓来满足这种需求。根据Remax Boone Realty公司房地产经纪人约翰·约翰(John John)汇总的数据来看，自2011年以来，开发商在大学城新增建了3800多个床位。然而即使是这样的增长速度仍然满足不了需求，约翰预测未来校外学生公寓开发增速将紧随密苏里大学大一新生增长速度攀升。（校外公寓床位数自2007年以来已增长超过28%。）
With all the competition, developers are looking for ways to set their properties apart. That has led to the construction of complexes with tanning salons; spas offering manicures, pedicures, facials and massages; 24-hour workout rooms with virtual trainers; and outdoor pools with bars and cabanas. There are washers and dryers that send text messages when a cycle is complete, and exercise machines that allow users to check their e-mail.
面对业内激烈的竞争，开发商们各显神通，以期脱颖而出。这催生了配套设施奢华的校外学生公寓。这些配套设施包括美黑沙龙；提供美甲、美足、面部护理以及按摩服务的水疗中心；配有虚拟教练、24小时开放的健身房；以及配有酒吧和餐吧的户外游泳池。当洗衣机和干衣机完成程序后会发短信给使用者，还可以在运动的同时直接在运动器械上查收电子邮件。
The Domain at Columbia, which is set to open here this year, includes a full-swing golf simulator, a video game room and a theater room. On its Web site, which opens with a two-minute video set to music, the development says it has “the largest resort style pool in Columbia and the most over the top amenities.”
在今年年内入住的“哥伦比亚产业”(The Domain at Columbia)，公寓楼里配备了全挥杆高尔夫模拟器、游戏娱乐室、影音播放室。打开项目主页上，可以看到一段两分钟的配乐视频，开发商称项目拥有“哥伦比亚校区最大的度假村风格泳池以及最顶尖的配套设施“”。
“We’re always trying to make it cooler and more hip than the last one,” said Jill Lung, the director of interior design at Sixthriver Architects, who has worked on many student residences.
“我们总是想把手上的项目做得比上一个更好更时髦，”Sixthriver Architects公司的室内设计总监吉尔•朗(Jill Lung)参与过多个校外学生公寓项目的设计，她这样说。
Some of the projects she has worked on, Ms. Lung said, have used technology to create a better learning environment. Some study rooms have flat-screen monitors that students can plug their tablets or computers into and use to collaborate on projects.
朗女士说，她曾参与过的一些项目利用科技为学生创造了一个更好的学习环境。在一些自习室，学生可以把自己的平板或者电脑接到纯平显示器上，进行联机操作。
Still, college administrators say, those projects fall short of the academic amenities offered on a campus. “We’re trying to integrate our facilities with the academic mission,” said Frankie Minor, Missouri’s director of residential life. “You don’t see the same types of educational programming going on in those facilities as you do in ours.”
然而，一些高校行政人员说，相比校园里能提供的学术设施，这些校外项目要差了一截。密苏里大学宿舍区主管弗兰基·迈纳(Frankie Minor)说：“我们正在试图将我们的设施与教学研任务结合起来。在校外学生公寓那儿，你可找不到我们这里的教学设施。”
Missouri’s residence halls have classrooms and study rooms; visiting faculty members live in some, and they host lectures, discussions and scientific experiments.
密苏里大学的校内宿舍区有教室和自习室，一些客座教授也住在这里，他们在里面举办讲座、研讨会、进行科学试验。
But Greg Henry, the chief executive of Aspen Heights, a developer based in Austin, Tex., that will open a 980-bed property here in August, said it was up to the property managers to create an environment conducive to learning. Mr. Henry said that his company, which now has 15 student properties nationwide, has been designing its clubhouses to serve as suitable study spaces. On-site staff give the students personalized attention, like birthday greetings or help when they are stressed, he said.
总部设在德克萨斯州奥斯汀的Aspen Heights公司，将在今年8月在哥伦比亚校区开放980个床位的校外学生公寓，公司首席执行官格雷戈·亨利(Greg Henry)说，项目物业管理人员将努力营造一个有利的学习环境。亨利表示，公司迄今为止已经在全美承建了15个校外学生公寓项目，将项目中的会所设计成了合适的学习场所。现场的工作人员会给予学生们个性化的关注，比如祝贺生日，或者当他们有压力时给予帮助。
“I don’t think it’s doing bad in the world to provide a nicer space for college students to live and study and rest and play,” Mr. Henry said.
亨利说：“我认为，给大学生提供一个在生活、学习、休息以及娱乐方面更加好的环境，这件事没办错。”
Their comforts, some developers argue, will give students less to worry about and allow them to focus more on their schoolwork.
一些开发商声称，学生们住得舒适了，在生活上操心的就少了，可以把更多的注意力放在课业上。
“It lessens the stress,” said Sam Tchen, 22, who has lived in a modern complex in downtown Columbia for the past two years. “You just feel more comfortable in your environment.”
“这可以减少压力，”22岁的山姆·陈(Sam Tchen)说，过去两年中他住在哥伦比亚市中心的现代化综合公寓里，“住在这样的环境里很舒服。”
Brookside, the complex where Mr. Tchen lives, has a tanning salon and a rooftop pool with a bar and grill run by a local restaurant. The apartments come with a 42-inch flat-screen television, stainless steel appliances, granite countertops and balconies.
陈先生居住的溪畔(Brookside)公寓配有美黑沙龙和屋顶游泳池，泳池边是当地一家餐馆经营的酒吧和烧烤吧。公寓有42寸纯平电视、不锈钢器具、花岗岩厨房台面和阳台。
Academic concerns aside, some developers, market analysts and city and university officials believe that too much student housing is being built in various college towns and that a bubble could soon burst.
撇开学业问题不谈，部分开发商、市场分析人士以及大学和政府部门的人士认为，各地大学城建造的校外学生公寓太多了，泡沫很快就会破灭。
“I think people are looking too much at historic performance,” said Hans G. Nordby, the marketing director of Property and Portfolio Research, a company that analyzes commercial real estate. “They’re working a good horse to death. It’s too much supply.”
“我认为校外学生公寓以往的表现让人们期望过高了，”汉斯·诺德比(Hans G. Nordby)说。他是物业及投资组合研究公司(Property and Portfolio Research)的市场总监，这家公司主要分析商业房地产项目。“供应量太大了，开发商们把一个好市场做坏了。”
Some say the new developments detract from the charm of college towns.
一些人士认为，那些新加入的开发商偏离了建设大学城的初衷。
“It’s sort of this mass-produced, soulless luxury,” said Miranda Metheny, a recent Missouri graduate who lives across the street from Brookside in the 176-year-old Niedermeyer Building, which was slated to be razed and replaced with an upscale high rise before public outcry saved the landmark.
刚从密苏里大学毕业的米兰达·麦席尼(Miranda Metheny)说：“它有点像那种批量生产、毫无灵魂的奢侈品。”她住在溪畔公寓对面的Niedermeyer大厦，这是一栋有着176年历史的地标建筑，曾经有人提议把它拆除改建成高档的高层公寓，在公众抗议下才保存了下来。
The monthly rates for the modern units in Columbia generally start at $700 per student for a spot in an apartment, about twice the cost of older housing in the area. Yet they are on par with the price of on-campus housing, which equates to about $1,000 a month per bed, meals included.
哥伦比亚大学城校外公寓的租金，通常起价是每月700美元，大概是同地区旧公寓租金的两倍。不过这个租金与校内每月1000美元（含三餐）的价格相当。
The differences in price and amenities between the old and the new have fed assumptions around Columbia about the type of students enjoying the more upscale accommodations.
新旧公寓租金和服务设施上的不同，让人们不禁猜测，什么样的学生会更喜欢高档住宅。
“The people who live there are kind of jerks — not all of them,” said Ms. Metheny, 23. “I think they have a sense of entitlement. Even people who grew up with a lot of money, student life is supposed to have certain connotations, like you go without some things.”
“住在校外高档公寓里的学生有点不务正业——我说的只是一部分人，”23岁的麦席尼说，“我认为他们有种优越感，不管你家境多富裕，学生生活也应该有一定的内涵，就要像个学生。”
Courtney Cooper, 21, who will move into Brookside for her senior year this fall, disputes the stereotype. “I hear plenty of people that think if you live in Brookside you’re going to be spoiled,” she said. “I don’t think it’s true. Some people, their parents pay for what they want. But I’m chipping in. I wouldn’t say I’m spoiled by any means.”
今年秋天，21岁的考特尼·库珀(Courtney Cooper)升入大四后会搬到溪畔公寓住，“我听到许多人说一旦你搬到了溪畔公寓，你就等着被宠坏吧。”她说：“我认为不是这样的。一些学生想要什么，家长就会出钱给他们买什么。但我是自己凑的钱。无论怎样我都不会被宠坏。”