JAKARTA, Indonesia — When President Obama holds the first American summit meeting with Southeast Asian leaders in California beginning Monday, an underlying goal involves a country that will not be represented there: China.
印度尼西亚雅加达——美国总统奥巴马周一将在加利福尼亚举行美国与东南亚国家领导人的首次峰会，会议的一个隐含目标牵涉到一个并不出席会议的国家：中国。
Since the Obama administration began its “pivot to Asia” in 2011, the United States has been in direct competition with China for economic power in Southeast Asia, and the political influence and security arrangements that frequently go with it.
自从奥巴马政府于2011年开始将关注重点“转向亚洲”以来，美国一直在东南亚与中国直接竞争经济实力，以及常常伴随这种实力的政治影响力和安全部署。
“There may be a better term for it than ‘cold war,’ but there’s a lot of economic competition,” said Stuart Dean, a retired executive with General Electric who spent 24 years working in Southeast Asia. “It’s a commercial Olympics, as it were.”
“也许有一个比‘冷战’更好的说法，但那里有很多经济竞争，”通用电气的退休高管斯图尔特·迪恩(Stuart Dean)说，他曾在东南亚工作了24年。“就好像是一个商业的奥运会。”
As if to underline the subtext of the summit meeting, it will be held at the Sunnylands estate in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where Mr. Obama met with President Xi Jinping of China three years ago.
似乎是为了强调这次峰会的潜在目标，会议将在加利福尼亚州兰乔米拉奇的“阳光之乡”(Sunnylands)庄园举行，三年前，奥巴马曾在那里与中国国家主席习近平会面。
In meeting with the leaders of the 10 members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, Mr. Obama will address a group that represents a population of more than 620 million and a collective economy of around $2.4 trillion, the third largest in Asia behind those of China and Japan.
奥巴马将在与东南亚国家联盟（Association of Southeast Asian Nations，简称东盟）10个成员国领导人的会议上进行交流，这些东盟领导人代表着一个拥有6.2亿人口、约2.4万亿美元的联合经济体，其经济规模在亚洲仅次于中国和日本，位于第三位。
Geographically astride the world’s busiest and most strategic shipping lanes, the region is the fulcrum of the administration’s rebalancing toward Asia.
东盟国家的地理位置横跨世界上最繁忙、最重要的战略运输航道，该地区是美国政府注意力向亚洲调整的重要部分。
While the leaders will certainly discuss regional security issues, including territorial disputes in the South China Sea, North Korea’s nuclear program and counterterrorism, they will devote equal time to economic issues, including the United States-led Trans-Pacific Partnership, policies aimed at promoting further growth and integration, and identifying ways to encourage more trade and investment through innovation and entrepreneurship.
虽然这些领导人肯定会讨论区域安全问题，包括南中国海的主权争端、朝鲜的核计划，以及反恐，但是，他们也将花相同的时间讨论经济问题，包括美国主导的跨太平洋伙伴关系(Trans-Pacific Partnership)、旨在促进进一步发展和融合的政策，以及找到通过创新和创业来鼓励更多贸易和投资的途径。
American officials briefing reporters in Washington on Wednesday did not get into specifics, saying the meeting would not be tightly scripted.
美国官员周三在华盛顿向记者吹风时没有提供更多的细节，称此次会议不会按照严格的脚本进行。
“It is not a laboriously negotiated, strict, by-the-Roman-numerals agenda,” said Daniel R. Russel, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs. “It is an open discussion among the leaders.”
“这次会议没有一个经过辛苦谈判、按照罗马数字严格排列出来的议程，”负责东亚和太平洋事务的助理国务卿丹尼尔·R·罗素(Daniel R. Russel)说。“这是一次领导人之间的自由讨论。”
While officials said the gathering was not an “anti-China” meeting, Washington is clearly trying to exert its leadership in Southeast Asia through investment, analysts said.
虽然官员表示这不是一次“反对中国”的聚会，但分析人士认为，华盛顿显然试图通过投资来对东南亚施加其领导力。
China has been Asean’s largest trading partner since 2009, with two-way trade surpassing $366 billion in 2014, according to Asean trade data. The United States was fourth last year behind the European Union and Japan. Southeast Asia was also America’s fourth-largest export market that year.
2009年以来，中国一直是东盟最大的贸易伙伴，据东盟的贸易数据，双向贸易额在2014年已超过3660亿美元。美国去年与东盟的贸易额位居第四，在欧盟和日本之后。去年，东南亚也是美国的第四大出口市场。
However, America’s strategy has focused on direct investment, where it is far ahead of China. American companies poured $32.3 billion into Southeast Asia from 2012 to 2014, according to Asean data, compared with $21.3 billion from China.
但是，美国的战略一直集中在直接投资上，美国在这方面远远领先于中国。据东盟的数据，美国公司在2012至2014年间对东南亚的投资达323亿美元，而同一时期的中国投资是213亿美元。
From 2000 to 2014, the United States invested $226 billion in Southeast Asia, according to the United States Bureau of Economic Analysis, more than American investment in China, Japan and India combined.
据美国经济分析局，从2000年到2014年，美国在东南亚的投资达2260亿美元，超过美国在中国、日本和印度的投资总额。
The United States aims to maintain its dominance in investment while taking the lead in trade, according to analysts, and the Trans-Pacific Partnership is the chief weapon in that quest. Four of Asean’s 10 member states have already joined the pact, while three others — Indonesia, the Philippines and Thailand — have either declared their intention to join or said they were considering doing so.
分析人士表示，美国的目标是，在保持其投资主导地位的同时，争取在贸易上领先，而跨太平洋伙伴关系是这一努力的主要手段。东盟的10个成员国中已有四个加入了该协议，另外三个成员国印度尼西亚、菲律宾和泰国，或已宣布打算加入，或表示正在考虑加入。
Alexander C. Feldman, president and chief executive officer of the U.S.-Asean Business Council, said the summit meeting was the culmination of American economic strategy in the region dating back to Mr. Obama’s first weeks in office.
美国东盟商务理事会总裁兼首席执行官亚历山大·C·费尔德曼(Alexander C. Feldman)表示，峰会标志着美国在该地区的经济战略的顶点，而该战略在奥巴马就任总统的第一周就开始了。
In early 2009, Hillary Clinton made her first overseas trip as secretary of state to Indonesia, a Group of 20 member that boasts Southeast Asia’s largest economy, and which is the unofficial leader of Asean.
2009年初，希拉里·克林顿担任国务卿后的第一次出国访问去的就是印度尼西亚，印尼是G20成员，也是东南亚最大的经济体、东盟的非正式领袖。
“I think the strategy by the Obama administration has been a long-term one which reflects a whole vision of Asia and realizes that Asean is a critical piece of the puzzle often not focused on by past administrations,” Mr. Feldman said. “Since Day 1 they have focused on this region and understood that it was really the battleground for the future of Asia.”
“我认为，奥巴马政府的战略是长期性的，该战略体现了对亚洲的整体考虑，认识到东盟是亚洲的一个关键部分，而这往往没有得到以前历届政府的足够重视，”费尔德曼说。“自从奥巴马组阁的第一天起，他们就在重视这个地区，他们认识到那里才是争夺亚洲未来的真正战场。”
The region’s trade with China has been robust. Southeast Asia has been a huge source of raw materials and commodities to feed both China’s economic engine and its growing consumer class, supplying products like minerals and palm oil from Indonesia and Malaysia and electronics components from Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand, said Murray Hiebert, a Southeast Asia expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.
该地区与中国的贸易历来强劲。东南亚一直是中国获得原材料和大宗商品的巨大来源，为满足中国的经济引擎以及不断增长的消费阶层的胃口，东南亚向中国提供各种商品，比如来自印尼和马来西亚的矿产和棕榈油，还有来自新加坡、马来西亚和泰国的电子元件，华盛顿战略与国际研究中心的东南亚问题专家默里·希伯特(Murray Hiebert)说。
“China is also a big aid donor, particularly for infrastructure projects, an area in which U.S. companies have had trouble competing because Southeast Asian governments produce so few bankable projects that U.S. banks are willing to finance,” he said.
“中国也是为该地区提供大量援助的国家，特别是在基础设施项目上，而美国公司在这方面的竞争上面临困难，因为东南亚各国政府没有多少能让美国银行愿意投资的有利可图的项目，”他说。
That said, China’s dependability as a trading partner is waning. While nearly 12 percent of total exports from Asean went to China in 2014, the most to any one country, exports to China slumped last year as commodity prices tumbled and are expected to fall further this year because of China’s economic slowdown.
尽管如此，但中国作为贸易伙伴的可靠性正在减弱。虽然东盟2014年的出口总额中有近12％卖给了中国，在东盟所有出口国中占最高的比例，但随着大宗商品价格的下跌，东盟去年对中国的出口额开始下滑，预计今年由于中国经济增长放缓，出口额将进一步降低。
The region’s leading economies, including Indonesia, will feel the pain, according to economists. “The sensitivity of Indonesia to China’s economy is very large, and that’s also the case for Asean,” said Destry Damayanti, an economist and commissioner at the Indonesia Deposit Insurance Corporation who is based in Jakarta.
经济学家认为，东盟地区包括印度尼西亚在内的主要经济体将会感受到中国经济放缓的痛苦。印尼存款保险公司雅加达专员、经济学家蒂斯特莉·达玛艳蒂(Destry Damayanti)说，“印尼对中国经济的敏感度非常大，东盟也一样。”
It remains to be seen whether the United States can profit from China’s downturn to increase its trade with the region.
美国是否能从中国的经济衰退中获利，从而增加其在该地区的贸易，仍有待观察。
But the American edge in direct investment may be the greater long-term benefit, said Mr. Dean, the retired General Electric executive.
但美国在直接投资上的优势可能为其带来更大的长期利益，退休的通用电气高管迪恩说。
“Our business progress and biggest deals have been driven by investing,” he said. “It ensures a long-term presence, builds long-term relationships and makes us a local company in each country where we invest.
“我们的业务进展和最大的交易都是由投资驱动的，”他说。“投资保证了我们的长期存在，建立了长期的合作关系，使我们在每个我们投资的国家成为一家当地公司。”
“Trading is short term and can go away faster than investment, and China will always have a competitive advantage due to its proximity.”
“贸易是短期行为，能比投资更快地消失，由于靠近东盟，中国在贸易上将永远具有竞争优势。”