The nation’s economic output grew at an even faster rate during July, August and September than the government initially estimated, giving the economy its strongest six-month performance in more than a decade.
7月至9月，美国的经济产出增速都超出了政府的初步估算，进而促成了10多年来，美国经济表现最强劲的六个月。
The intense focus on the coming shopping frenzy as the holiday period begins this week almost made interest in the economy’s third-quarter performance seem like an exercise in nostalgia. But the Commerce Department’s release on Tuesday of its revised estimate of gross domestic product — the broadest measure of goods and services produced across the nation — showed that consumers had already stepped up their pace of purchasing.
由于假日季将于本周开始，人们注意力的焦点都放在了即将到来的购物狂潮上，对第三季度经济表现的关注似乎有了怀旧的意味。商务部(Commerce Department)周二发布的修正后的GDP估值显示，消费者已经加快了消费的步伐。GDP是衡量整个国家生产的商品和服务的最宏观指标。
The shift in the annual rate of growth to 3.9 percent from 3.5 percent was mainly because of a bigger-than-expected jump in consumer spending, bolstered by a modest increase in reported business investment.
商务部把GDP的年增长估值从3.5%调整到了3.9%，这主要是因为在商业投资小幅增长的提振下，消费者支出的增长超出了预期。
“The upward revision was almost exclusively due to much stronger buying by consumers,” said Carl R. Tannenbaum, chief economist at the Northern Trust Company. “I find that very encouraging coming into the commercial side of the holiday seasons.”
“上调的修正几乎完全是因为消费者支出的大幅增长，”北方信托公司(Northern Trust Company)首席经济师卡尔·R·坦嫩鲍姆(Carl R. Tannenbaum)说。“在即将进入假日购物季之际，我觉得这非常令人鼓舞。”
While the economic recovery, now into its sixth year, has been lackluster, Mr. Tannenbaum noted that in four of the last five quarters, “growth has moved to a much stronger level.” This 3.9 percent growth rate comes on the heels of a 4.6 percent jump in G.D.P. during the second quarter, after a freezing winter that helped cause the nation’s output to drop at a rate of 2.1 percent in the first three months of the year.
美国的经济复苏已进入第六年。坦嫩鲍姆指出，尽管经济复苏乏力，但在过去的五个季度中，有四个季度的“经济增长上升到了强劲得多的水平”。在本季度得出3.9%的GDP增幅估值之前，第二季度的GDP增幅为4.6%，此前，在今年前三个月，异常寒冷的冬季导致经济产出下降了2.1%。
Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, agreed that “the trend has shifted higher,” although he doubted that G.D.P. growth could be sustained at the third quarter’s nearly 4 percent pace.
潘西恩宏观经济咨询公司(Pantheon Macroeconomics)首席经济学家伊恩·谢泼德森(Ian Shepherdson)同样认为，“经济增长趋势已经进一步提升，”虽然他对第三季度GDP增速将继续保持在将近4%的水平表示怀疑。
Falling gasoline prices, which left Americans with more cash for other purchases, partly explains why people were able to spend more, economists agree.
经济学家一致认为，油价的不断下跌让美国人有了更多钱来购买其他东西，这是人们消费支出增长的原因之一。
The G.D.P. figures made the drop in the Conference Board’s latest measure of consumer confidence to 88.7 in November from 94.1 in October all the more of an anomaly. Other surveys, including the Rasmussen index, have shown confidence surging.
世界大型企业联合会(Conference Board)最新的消费者信心指标11月下降到88.7，10月份为94.1。考虑到以上与GDP有关的数据，这种下降更加反常。而包括拉斯姆森指数(Rasmussen index)在内的另外一些调查都显示，消费者信心正不断增长。
Consumer spending is a closely watched figure because it accounts for 70 percent of economic activity and is needed to advance at a steady rate to power the economy forward.
消费者支出数据受到密切关注，因为它占据了经济活动的70%，消费者支出的稳步增长是经济向前发展的必要条件。
But it is business investment, including the rise and fall of inventory accumulation, that most influences economic turning points. Nonresidential investments grew by 7.1 percent, while investment in equipment reached 10.7 percent.
不过，对于经济拐点影响最大的因素还是商业投资，包括库存累积的增多或减少。第三季度美国非住宅投资增长了7.1%，而设备投资的增幅则达到10.7%。
“The thing I was most encouraged by was the pickup in business investment spending,” said Jerry Webman, chief economist at Oppenheimer Funds, “That says business confidence is building, and that we should expect to see hiring continue.”
“最令我感到鼓舞的是商业投资支出的增长，”凯万基金(OppenheimerFunds)的首席经济学家杰里·韦博曼(Jerry Webman)说，“这意味着企业信心正在增强，我们应该可以预计企业的招聘活动将会继续。”
Government spending, which grew at a 4.2 percent pace, turned out not to be quite as substantial as the Commerce Department initially estimated.
政府支出4.2%的增幅，证明不及政府最初的估计。
The economy’s growth has steadily pushed down the unemployment rate. Last month, the official rate hit 5.8 percent, a drop of 1.4 percentage points from a year earlier. Employers have added more than 200,000 jobs for nine months in a row, according to Labor Department figures.
经济增长已使失业率稳步下降。上月，官方公布的失业率为5.8%，同比下降1.4%。劳工部(Labor Department)的数据显示，用人单位新增就业岗位连续九个月超过20万。
And there are growing signs that the quality of jobs is improving. A report released on Monday by Julie Hotchkiss, a research economist and senior policy adviser at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, disputed claims that many of the newly created jobs were part-time positions.
而且越来越多的迹象表明，就业岗位的质量正在改善。亚特兰大联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta)研究经济学家、高级政策顾问朱莉·霍奇基斯(Julie Hotchkiss)上周公布的一份报告，反驳了许多新增岗位是兼职岗位的说法。
“Of the additional 8.2 million people employed since October 2010, 7.8 million (95 percent) are employed full time,” she wrote.
“自2010年10月以来，新增就业人口达820万。其中780万（95%）人的工作是全职工作，”她写道。
But the job market is still far from fully employing millions of Americans who want to work, one of the main reasons wages have stagnated, barely keeping up with the persistently low rate of inflation.
但数以百万计想工作的美国人，依然远远未能全部在就业市场找到工作。主要原因之一是工资水平停滞不前，勉强赶上了持续处于低位的通货膨胀水平。
In addition, the housing sector is well below historical standards. Residential housing investment was up 2.7 percent, according to the revised G.D.P. figures.
此外，房地产行业也远低于历史标准。调整后的GDP数据显示，住宅投资增幅为2.7%。
At the same time, the Case-Shiller Home Price Index of 20 major cities, released on Tuesday by Standard & Poors, rose at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.8 percent in September, a sharp slowdown from the double-digit pace prices were rising earlier this year.
与此同时，标准普尔(Standard & Poors)周二公布的20个主要城市的凯斯-希勒房价指数(Case-Shiller Home Price Index)显示，进行过季节性调整后，该指数在9月的年增长率为4.8%，同今年早些时候两位数的房价增幅相比，增速急剧放缓。
“The overall trend in home price increases continues to slow down,” David M. Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices, said in a statement. “The Northeast region reported its first negative monthly returns since December 2013.”
“房价的上涨总体上会持续放缓，”标普道琼斯指数公司(S&P Dow Jones Indices)指数委员会主席戴维·M·布利策(David M. Blitzer)在一份声明中说。“东北地区通报称，自2013年12月以来首次出现负的月回报率。”
“The only region showing any sustained strength is the Southeast led by Florida; price gains are also evident in Atlanta and Charlotte,” he added.
“唯一显示出持续势头的，是以佛罗里达州为首的东南地区；亚特兰大和夏洛特的房价上涨也颇为明显，”他接着说。
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in a study on household debt and credit, also found that new and refinanced mortgage loans hit their lowest level since 2000, largely because of a bump in interest rates last year.
纽约联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of New York)也在对家庭债务和信贷的研究中发现，新增和再抵押按揭贷款创2000年以来的最低水平，这主要是因为去年利率的上涨。