WASHINGTON — Senate leaders, after personal intercessions by President Obama, reached an agreement Wednesday on a path to grant the president accelerated power to complete a sweeping trade accord ringing the Pacific Ocean — just a day after fellow Democrats had blocked him.
华盛顿——参议院领袖在奥巴马总统亲自斡旋后于周三达成协议，让总统有机会取得授权，可以加速签订一项影响太平洋的全面贸易协定。一天前，奥巴马总统所属的民主党在表决时刚刚阻挠过他。
The larger aim is to secure a 12-nation agreement known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, spanning the Pacific from Canada and Chile to Japan and Australia and encompassing 40 percent of the world’s economic output. Mr. Obama sees the pact as a central part of his economic legacy, the largest trade deal in two decades and the realization of his foreign policy pivot toward Asia.
这样做更大的目的在于确保被称为“跨太平洋伙伴关系协定”(Trans-Pacific Partnership)的12国协定能够达成。该协定包括从加拿大、智利到日本与澳大利亚的太平洋国家，并涵盖全世界40%的经济产值。奥巴马认为这个协定是他经济政绩的核心，是20年来最大的贸易协定，也是他转向亚洲的外交政策的现实成果。
It also means money. Major American business interests, from Nike to Boeing and Hollywood to Silicon Valley, want the deal badly. Labor and environmental groups see it as a threat to American workers at the expense of profits.
它也有经济效益。从耐克(Nike)到波音(Boeing)、从好莱坞到硅谷，美国的大型企业也非常想要这个协定。劳工与环境团体则认为这会影响利润，进而对美国劳工造成威胁。
A series of trade-related votes will begin Thursday and stretch well into next week. The trade promotion authority would give the president the ability to move more quickly on the deal, leaving Congress with the power to vote up or down on the agreement but with no ability to amend it.
一系列与贸易相关的表决将从周四开始，持续到下一周。“贸易促进权”(trade promotion authority)将向总统授权，使他可以加速协定的进展，让国会仅有对协定投下赞成票或反对票的权力，而不得修订其内容。
While the pathway to passage became clearer Wednesday, it is still treacherous. Most Senate Democrats will ultimately oppose the trade promotion bill, and with the stated opposition of Senators Rand Paul of Kentucky and Jeff Sessions of Alabama, both Republicans, there are now louder rumblings on the president’s right flank.
这个路线虽然在周三变得更加明朗，却仍然不平坦。多数民主党参议员最终会反对这个贸易促进法案。此外，肯塔基州参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)与阿拉巴马州参议员杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)两位共和党员表达了坚定的反对，右翼也对总统表达了更强的不满。
“Now is not the time to celebrate,” said Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, the Finance Committee chairman. “While this agreement solves a temporary procedural issue, now is when the real work begins.”
“现在不是庆祝的时候，”犹他州共和党参议员暨参议院金融委员会(Finance Committee)主席奥林·哈奇(Orrin Hatch)表示。“协议虽然可以解决暂时的程序问题，但是真正的工作现在才要开始。”
Yet Mr. Obama showed he does have sway among fractious Democrats. A long White House meeting with 10 Democrats considered pro trade helped force the Senate to compromise. In the end, the Democrats withdrew their demand that trade enforcement measures be integrated into trade promotion authority before the Senate began considering the measure.
然而在乖戾的民主党员之中，奥巴马也展现了一些驾驭力。被认为支持贸易的10位民主党人士在白宫参加了长时间的会谈，这次会谈对参议院的妥协起到了帮助。民主党人原本要求，要将贸易执法措施整合到贸易促进权，才会让参议院审议这些措施。最后，民主党人撤回了这一要求。
“The so-called pro trade Democrats had a chat with the president for a couple of hours, and I think that helped,” said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the Senate’s No. 2 Republican. “I wish he’d had that chat with them before the first failed vote.”
“被称作支持贸易的一些民主党人与总统聊了几个小时，我认为那有帮助，”德克萨斯州参议员，参议院共和党二号人物约翰·科宁(John Cornyn)说。“我希望他当时能在首次表决失败之前与他们聊聊。”
Under the deal, the Senate will vote Thursday, first on a contentious trade enforcement bill that includes new remedies to counter currency manipulation by trading partners, and then on an extension of an African trade agreement.
参议院约定在周四首先对存在争议的贸易执法法案投票。这个法案包括新的附加条款，用以反制贸易伙伴操纵汇率。然后对是否延长一项非洲贸易协定进行表决。
The Senate would then begin debate Thursday evening on trade promotion authority.
参议院接着会在周四傍晚针对贸易促进权开展辩论。
The agreement gives Democrats a chance to demonstrate broad, bipartisan support for a get-tough approach on countries that intentionally keep the value of their currency low to make their exports cheaper, which then effectively raises the cost of American-made goods. But if that separate bill can get through the House, it would then be vetoed by the president, who believes it would destroy the trade talks.
民主党人可以借助这个协议的机会，对于向蓄意压低本国货币汇率的国家采取严厉举措的做法，展示跨党派的广泛支持。这些国家可以借压低汇率降低出口产品的价格，进而实质上提高美制产品的价格。但如果国会能通过这个单独的法案，总统仍可行使否决权，因为他认为这会摧毁贸易谈判。
For the most ardent opponents of Mr. Obama’s trade push, the deal means delay, which can be perilous for trade negotiators. Under the terms of the trade promotion legislation, Congress could not consider a final Pacific trade deal for four months after it was completed, pushing it further into the election season, when major legislative initiatives become far more difficult. Final negotiations would not begin unless and until Congress approved the accelerated authority.
对于强烈反对奥巴马推动贸易的人来说，这个协议是一种拖延，这可能对贸易谈判人员造成伤害。根据贸易促进法案的条款，国会要在跨太平洋贸易协定最终条文完成四个月后，才能予以审议，使这个议题进一步临近大选造势的周期，届时重大立法举动都会更加困难。在国会批准加速权以前，最终的谈判无法开始。
Republicans succeeded in fending off a Democratic push to attach the currency measure to trade promotion authority itself. The measure has the support of a strong majority in the Senate, including Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio and a United States trade representative in the administration of President George W. Bush. American automakers and some economists believe a currency measure is vital to a trade agreement that is intended to protect the interests of American workers.
共和党议员成功阻拦了民主党的企图，让反汇率操纵立法和贸易促进权法案脱钩。然而，该项法案在参议院获得了有力的多数支持，包括俄亥俄州共和党参议员罗伯·波特曼(Rob Portman)，他是乔治·Ｗ·布什(George W. Bush)任内的贸易代表。美国的汽车业者和部分经济学家则认为，反汇率操纵法案应作为贸易协议的重要一环，毕竟该项贸易协议旨在保障美国劳工的利益。
Mr. Portman went to the Senate floor Wednesday evening and promised that he would push for a currency provision on the trade promotion bill itself. “Part of a level playing field is making sure countries don’t manipulate their currency,” he said.
波特曼于周三晚间前往参议院，并承诺将强烈要求把汇率相关条款纳入贸易促进权法案。他表示，“所谓公平竞争也包括防止成员国操纵本国货币。”
But the White House fears that making the accelerated authority contingent on currency policy alterations could scare important partners from the negotiating table, including Japan, the second-largest Trans-Pacific partner.
但白宫方面担心，以汇率政策作为加速谈判授权的前提，有可能让谈判桌上的重要伙伴感到恐慌，包括跨太平洋协定中的第二大贸易伙伴日本。
Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, insisted on a legislative approach that would “provide our Democratic colleagues with a sensible way forward without killing the bill,” he said as he presented the plan on the Senate floor.
参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)坚持透过立法程序，“让民主党议员能以合理的方式推进，而又不至于扼杀法案”，他在参议院提案时作了如上表示。
For his part, Mr. Obama preserved a clean path toward the Pacific trade deal, which includes Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam, as well as the United States. “Yesterday, we made it clear we didn’t accept merely a fast-track foreign trade agreements,” said Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader. “We must also enforce the trade agreements we make. The proposal today provides that path forward.”
奥巴马总统也做了努力，以确保顺利签定跨太平洋伙伴关系协定。参与该协定的国家包括澳大利亚、文莱、加拿大、智利、日本、马来西亚、墨西哥、新西兰、秘鲁、新加坡、越南以及美国。内华达州参议员及民主党领袖哈利·里德(Harry Reid)表示，“昨日我们已经清楚表明，假如法案中只提及贸易协议的‘快速通道’权，我们是不会接受的，”他又补充，“我们制定的贸易协议条款也必须得到执行，今天的提案有望达成该项目标。”
Mr. Obama had rankled Mr. Reid and some other Democrats by singling out members of their party by name, criticizing them for their opposition to the deal. The president was notably critical of Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, whom he called “absolutely wrong” for her views.
奥巴马向反对提案的民主党员提出了点名抨击，让里德和部分民主党议员耿耿于怀。他对马萨诸塞州民主党参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)的批评尤其严苛，宣称她的观点“错得离谱”。
For all the drama, Senate Democrats may have ended up where they started, with tough trade enforcement provisions that are broadly supported but without a vehicle to get them into law. Lawmakers from both parties say that even if the enforcement and currency bill passes Thursday, they may try to break off some provisions as amendments to the trade promotion bill that Mr. Obama must sign into law.
经过所有这些波折，参议院民主党团又回到起点，也就是说，虽然议员普遍支持采取强硬的贸易执法规定，却苦无手段将该规定纳入法案。国会的两党议员都表示，即使周四顺利通过贸易执法规定和反汇率操纵法案，他们也会将部分条款拆开来，作为贸易促进权法案的修正案，而奥巴马只能签署。