WASHINGTON —  Already under fierce attack from Republicans over the new health care law, President Obama now faces broad and mounting Democratic concerns that the troubled start of the insurance program will cut into the political benefit the party received from the government shutdown and cost Democratic candidates in next year’s midterm elections.
华盛顿——关于新的医改法案，奥巴马总统已经受到了共和党的猛烈攻击，如今甚至有越来越多的民主党人也开始日益担心，这个保险计划困难重重的开端会损害民主党从政府停摆事件中获得的政治利益，并影响民主党候选人明年的中期选举。
Senate Democratic leaders summoned the White House chief of staff, Denis R. McDonough, on Thursday along with the official most responsible for the troubled health insurance website, Marilyn Tavenner, and the person entrusted to fix it, Jeffrey D. Zients, for a closed-door venting session. That followed a meeting on Monday between Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and worried House Democratic freshmen in the office of Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 Democrat.
周四，参议院民主党领导人召集白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)、对出现问题的医保网站负有最大责任的官员玛丽莲·塔夫纳(Marilyn Tavenner)，以及负责解决这个问题的杰弗里·D·齐恩茨(Jeffrey D. Zients)进行了一次闭门会议，交流各种不满。此前，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)和忧心忡忡的众议院民主党新议员曾于周一在马里兰州众议员、众议院民主党二号人物斯坦尼·H·霍耶尔(Steny H. Hoyer)的办公室开过会。
It appeared that the White House would have to do more to reassure Democrats who emerged from the 16-day government shutdown confident of their political fortunes, only to see Republicans roar back on a wave of anger over the health care law.
走出16天的政府停摆后，民主党人对他们的政治前途充满信心，却不料共和党人利用人们对医改法案的广泛不满卷土重来。要让这些民主党人恢复信心，白宫似乎需要做出更多努力。
“People are anxious,” said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Democrat.
“人们很担心”，参议院民主党二号人物、参议员理查德·J·德宾(Richard J.Durbin)说。
“I don’t think there’s confidence by anyone in the room,” said Senator Jeff Merkley, an Oregon Democrat up for re-election next year, as he emerged from the closed-door meeting in the Capitol. “This is more a show-me moment. We were all confident that the system was going to be up and operating on Oct 1. And now we’re not confident until it’s real.”
“我并不认为在场的有任何人对此抱有信心，”将于明年竞选连任的俄勒冈州民主党参议员杰夫·默克利(Jeff Merkley)在国会的闭门会议结束后说。“这是一个更需要用证据说话的时刻。我们都曾坚信这个计划将会在10月1日开始实施和运转。而现在，在它尚未成为事实之前，我们没有任何信心。”
The anxious include not only senators and House members facing hotly contested races but those whose seats are considered safe, as well as lawmakers in states with Republican governors who have done nothing to promote the health care law and in states with Democratic governors who have created state-run websites and made every effort to sign up the uninsured.
感到焦虑的不仅是那些面临着激烈竞争的议员们，而且还包括那些地位被认为相当巩固的议员，以及所在州的州长为共和党人的议员，这些州长没有为推行医改法案做出任何贡献。当然还有其他一些议员，他们虽然来自州长为民主党人的州，那里的州长却创建了州级网站，并不遗余力地拉拢未参保人员，让他们和自己签约。
“It’s not working well,” said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, whose state was hailed by Mr. Obama as a model for the Affordable Care Act.
马里兰州民主党参议员本杰明·L·卡汀(Benjamin L. Cardin)说，“进展不是很顺利。”他的州被奥巴马称为执行《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)的楷模。
Many Democrats say the Obama administration must extend the period to enroll in new plans, given the continuing problems with website access. Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire and 10 other Democrats have signed or endorsed a letter to Kathleen Sebelius, the health and human services secretary, pleading for more time. Ms. Shaheen told the administration officials on Thursday that she had a hard time taking them at their word because they had previously assured that the rollout was going to work.
许多民主党人都表示，由于网站访问仍然存在问题，奥巴马政府必须延长时限，以便登记新的医疗保险计划。新罕布什尔州参议员珍妮·沙欣(Jeanne Shaheen)和其他10位民主党人都在给卫生和公众服务部长凯瑟琳·西贝利厄斯(Kathleen Sebelius)的一封要求宽限时间的信上签了名或对这封信表示了支持。沙欣周四告诉奥巴马政府的官员，她很难相信他们的话，因为他们都曾信誓旦旦地表示，医改计划会顺利推进。
Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, has teamed with Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, to draft legislation delaying until 2015 the imposition of penalties on those who fail to buy health insurance. 
西弗吉尼亚州民主党参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)与乔治亚州共和党参议员约翰尼·伊萨克松(Johnny Isakson)已联手起草法律，把对未购买医疗保险的人实施处罚的日期推迟到2015年。
The politics of the rollout are coming into clearer focus by the day. Democrats emerged from the government shutdown Oct. 16 sure that they would be the political beneficiaries of a Republican brand that took a beating from voters tired of the brinkmanship. But the problems with the website are sending Democratic reputations plunging along with those of their adversaries.
渐渐地，医改推出背后的政治力量愈加清晰。10月16日政府停摆结束后，民主党人曾确信，选民们厌倦了共和党人的边缘政策，共和党的形象遭受打击，民主党人将因此得到政治上的好处。但医改网站的问题却使民主党人的名誉受损，与其政治对手同时出现支持度大跌的情况。
Bill McInturff, an experienced Republican pollster, called the twin political disasters an “October shock wave.” A new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll, which Mr. McInturff conducts with the Democratic pollster Peter Hart, found that esteem across the country for the nation’s leaders has sunk into a morass.
资深共和党民调分析师比尔·麦金塔夫(Bill McInturff)将这两场政治灾难称为“10月冲击波”。NBC新闻频道(NBC News)和《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)的新民调显示出，举国上下对各位国家领导人的尊重一落千丈。该民调由麦金塔夫和民主党民调分析师彼得·哈特(Peter Hart)共同主持。
Mr. Obama’s approval rating reached the lowest of his presidency, at 42 percent in the poll. 
这次民调还显示，奥巴马的支持率为42%，达到了他执政以来的最低点。
Forty-three percent said they strongly thought the new health care law was a bad idea, matching the highest level since it passed in 2010.
43%的被访者表示，他们深感医改法案相当糟糕。自从2010年法案通过后，这是它遭到最大质疑的时刻。
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, conceded that health care problems were taking a toll on Democrats.
纽约州民主党参议员查尔斯·E·舒默(Charles E. Schumer)承认，民主党人正为医改的问题付出代价。
“Certainly the difficulties in the rollout have somewhat diminished the advantage we got out of the shutdown by the Tea Party and the attempted flirtation with default,” Mr. Schumer said. But, he added, the shutdown aftermath was “going to be much more long-term.”
舒默说，“毫无疑问，医改推行过程中出现的问题已经从某种程度上抵消了我们的优势，这些优势是我们从茶党(Tea Party)引发的政府停摆和避免政府违约中得到的。”但他也补充说，停摆的影响“将更长久”。
Voters “saw the core of what the Tea Party is about and that will stick with them,” he said.
选民们“已经认识到了茶党的核心真相，他们再也无法摆脱这种形象了，”他说。
Still, it is little wonder that of the 11 Democrats who signed Ms. Shaheen’s letter, seven, including Ms. Shaheen, are in potentially competitive re-election campaigns. Another, Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, is chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
不出意料地是，11位在沙欣信上签名的民主党人中，有七位，其中也包括沙欣本人，是可能在竞选连任时面临激烈竞争的。另一位是科罗拉多参议员迈克尔·贝内特(Michael Bennet)，他是民主党参议院竞选委员会(Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee)主席。
Obama administration officials struggled to reassure nervous Democrats that benefits of a subsidized insurance marketplace would become clear as the technical issues recede. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which runs HealthCare.gov, released the names of two software experts tasked to get the kinks out of the site by the end of November: Michael Dickerson, a reliability engineer on leave from Google, and Greg Gershman, a software developer and entrepreneur.
奥巴马政府的官员们忙于让忧心忡忡的民主党人恢复信心，表示一旦技术问题解决了，政府补贴的保险市场所带来的好处就将变得清晰，但却收效不大。负责运营医保网站HealthCare.gov的美国联邦医疗保险与医疗补助服务中心(Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services)公布了两名软件专家的名字，他们将负责在11月底前解决网站的漏洞，他们是：迈克尔·迪克森(Michael Dickerson)，谷歌(Google)的一位可靠性测试工程师，目前正在休假，以及软件工程师、企业家格雷格·格什曼(Greg Gershman)。
But to many Democrats, the biggest issue is the failure of the White House to win the messaging war with the law’s opponents. At the lunch meeting, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, noted that many of the plans being canceled because of the new law were bait-and-switch rip-offs with poor coverage that can no longer be sold. Yet Republicans have already convinced some Americans that they are at risk of losing perfectly good insurance coverage.
但是对很多民主党人来说，最大的问题还是白宫没能在与医保法反对方的战斗中，顺畅地发出自己一方的讯息。在午餐会上，密歇根州民主党参议员黛比·施塔贝诺(Debbie Stabenow)指出，很多被新法取消的保险计划都名不符实，保障的范围有限，具有欺诈性，因此已被禁止销售。但共和党人已经说服了一些美国人，他们很有可能会失去现有非常划算的保险计划。
To that, Mr. McDonough, the White House chief of staff, promised that the president would keep up the messaging war, and to be back in three weeks for another session.
就此，白宫幕僚长麦克多诺承诺，总统会在两方的讨论中继续努力，三周后再进行下一轮。
The exchange “was strong,” Mr. Schumer said, “but it wasn’t heated because everyone realizes we’re all in the same boat.”
讨论“相当激烈”，舒默说，“但并没有发生冲突，因为每个人都认识到，我们其实是在同一条船上。”