THERE seems to be a rule that if retirees move to a communal environment, it must consist only of other retirees. But some older adults are challenging that notion by choosing intergenerational cohousing, living side by side with people of all other ages, including singles, childless couples and families with children.
退休老人如果要搬到一个集体环境中去生活，那里一定是只有退休老人的地方，这似乎已经成了一条规则。但有些年长者正在挑战这种观念，他们选择了跨代共居(intergenerational cohousing)，也就是与不同年龄层的人住在一起，其中不乏单身人士、丁克夫妇和那些有孩子的家庭。
Residents of cohousing make major decisions collectively, but these are not communes. Group meals and activities are optional, and members maintain separate residences.
共居社区的居民们集体做出重大决定，但这类社区并不是公社。是否参加聚餐和集体活动都很随意，而且社区成员们都有单独的住处。
“You have a choice between privacy and community,” said Charles Durrett, 57, an architect who has designed more than 50 cohousing communities, including the one where he lives in Nevada City, Calif. The community has 34 units, and out of around 100 residents, about 20 are age 55 to 95, he said.
“在私人空间与社区生活之间，你可以自由选择，”查尔斯·达雷特(Charles Durrett)说道。他是一位57岁的建筑师，已经设计建造了50多个共居社区，包括他本人在加州内华达城(Nevada City, Calif.)的住处。该社区有34个单元，在大约100位居民当中，约有20位的年龄在55岁至95岁之间，他介绍说。
Some communities that live by cohousing principles are for retirees only, and that is the best choice for some, Mr. Durrett said. Children can be quite raucous, he said, and sometimes people just want to spend their time in peace with like-minded friends and a nice glass of wine.
有些社区的共居原则是只接受退休人员，对某些人来说，那是最好的选择，达雷特说道。孩子们可能会非常吵闹，他说，而人们有时候只想过清静的生活，和志同道合的朋友在一起，再来杯好酒。
But other retirees prefer the energy and variety of cohousing, he said. The arrangement has value for younger residents, too: Children learn to respect their elders and “everybody’s seeing all of life,” Mr. Durrett said. That includes “what the end game looks like,” he said. Several residents of the Nevada City community have died at home, without going to a nursing home.
但另一些退休的人宁愿选择活泼多样的共居社区，他继续说道。这样的安排对更年轻的居民们来说也很有价值：孩子们学会了尊重长者，而且，“每个人都会看到生活的全部，”达雷特说道，包括“游戏终场是什么样子，”他说。内华达城共居社区就有几位居民是在家中去世的，他们没有去外面的养老院。
Moving to cohousing is a way to avoid the isolation and depression that older people can face when they live alone, said Mr. Durrett. Cohousing residents are also more likely to check up on and care for their neighbors, he said.
与人合住是避免孤独与沮丧的一种方法，老年人独处的时候通常会面对这样的问题，达雷特说。合住的居民们也更有可能看望和照顾他们的邻居，他说。
Meg Palley, 95, lives in a four-bedroom house in Nevada City that she shares with two care givers who receive reduced rent in return for services like driving and shopping. She said she chose intergenerational cohousing because “it’s logical to have people of various ages together.”
95岁的梅格·帕利(Meg Palley)住在内华达城的一栋有四间卧室的房子里，她与两位照顾她的人共享住处，并给他们减免租金，以换取开车和购物这样的服务。她说自己选择跨代共居，是因为“让不同年龄的人共处是一件合情合理的事”。
She would be lonelier if she were living with other older people, she said, and suspects she’d hear too many people “complaining about their complaints.”
她说，如果和其他老年人一起生活，她会觉得更加孤独。而且，她还顾虑自己会听到太多人“唠唠叨叨”。
At Ecovillage at Ithaca, in upstate New York, residents range from a few months old to 80-plus. Ecovillage has two communities of about 30 units each, with one more community in development. Legally, the communities are co-ops, and as the name implies, Ecovillage emphasizes the environment by operating two organic farms and using solar energy. Like most cohousing communities, it includes common areas where people can share meals, and it offers many group activities.
在纽约州北部的伊萨卡市(Ithaca)有个生态村(Ecovillage)，那里的居民从刚出生几个月到八十多岁，年龄跨度很大。生态村里有两个社区，每个社区有30个单元，另外还有一个社区正在建设中。从法律上说，这些社区属于合作社的性质，而且生态村还经营着两个有机农场，并使用太阳能，名副其实地美化了当地的环境。与大多数共居社区一样，这里有一些公共区域，可以供人们在其中聚餐或者参与集体活动。
Barbara Chasin, a retired sociologist, has lived at Ecovillage with her husband, Dick Franke, a retired anthropologist, since 2009. They live in a 1,600-square-foot house with two bedrooms and a study for each of them.
自2009年起，退休社会学家芭芭拉·蔡辛(Barbara Chasin)就和她的丈夫——一位同样已经退休的人类学家，一起住进了生态村。他们的房子面积有1600平方英尺（约合148平方米），带有两间卧室，每人有一个书房。
Ms. Chasin, 72, said she would find living in a retirement community alienating and prefers to be among people of all ages and physical conditions. She is a member of a committee on aging at Ecovillage.
72岁的蔡辛说，她觉得住在一个退休老人的社区里会有种疏离感，所以，她更愿意住在年龄与身体状况多样化的人群当中。蔡辛还是生态村老年人委员会中的一员。
“We want to find ways that people can remain here as they grow older and more infirm,” she said. That could involve retrofitting homes and finding ways to notify people of medical emergencies, she said.
“我们正在想办法，让人们能够留在这里，慢慢变老，”她说。那就要翻新屋子，并想办法向人们通报医疗急救措施，她说。
The cost of cohousing varies greatly depending on the region, Mr. Durrett said. In general, it is similar to what a two-bedroom condo would cost, he said. Many people make a down payment and pay a mortgage on their homes, he said.
依照地域不同，共居房的成本有着天壤之别，达雷特说。大体上接近一套两卧室的分户式产权公寓(condo)的成本。很多人先付首期，然后按揭。他介绍说。
There are a few ways to join a cohousing community. One is to participate in the formation of one, in which case people can influence how it is structured.
加入共居社区的方式有好几种。一种是在社区形成初期就参与进来。在这种情况下，人们可以影响社区的建设思路。
But financing new construction can be hard, Rebecca Lane, executive director of the Cohousing Association of the United States, said in an e-mail.
但为新建社区筹措经费可能是十分困难的，美国共居协会(Cohousing Association of the United States)的执行理事丽贝卡·莱恩(Rebecca Lane)在一封邮件里这样表示。
“The failure rate is high for forming communities, though there is no data to describe this, as most failed forming groups disband and fade into the sunset,” she said.
“组建一个共居社区的失败率很高，只是没有数据来说明这一点，因为大多数社区在组建失败后也就解散了，并淡出人们的视野。”她说。
The best way to form a cohousing community “is to have a solid architect on board from the beginning, who knows the model and can assist in the entire process, including advising with financing,” she said.
组建一个共居社区的最好方式，“就是在委员会里一开始就有个可靠的建筑师，了解相关模式，能够全程协助，包括提供财务建议。”她说。
Obviously, it is simpler to find an existing community, Ms. Lane said.
显然，找一个现成的社区要容易得多，莱恩说。
Cohousing is definitely not for everyone. Some people realize that “it’s a lot of work living with a group of people and making decisions together,” and they aren’t willing to make that investment, said Bill Hartzell, board president of the Cohousing Association of the United States.
共居模式肯定不是人人都适合的。有的人意识到“在与一群人共同生活、大家一起做决定的过程中，要付出很多精力”，而他们不愿意如此投入，美国共居协会的理事会主席比尔·哈策尔(Bill Hartzell)说。
Conflict is inevitable — most commonly it revolves around money, children and pets, he said. People may disagree about how pooled money should be spent, the disciplining of other people’s children, or whether dogs should be able to run off-leash, for example. Residents may resolve disagreements among themselves, or sometimes mediators are brought in, he said.
冲突不可避免。最常见的就是因为钱、孩子和宠物而起冲突，他这样说道。人们可能会产生分歧，比如说集资的钱应该怎么花，别人的孩子要怎么管教，或者是否该让狗到处乱跑，等等。有些问题，居民们可能会自己解决，而有时候则要通过中间人来调停，他说。
People do not need to be extroverts to thrive in cohousing.
并不是非要性格外向，才能在共居社区中活得精彩。
“One of my personalities is quite the hermit, but I also recognize that I can spiral too deeply into not being around people,” said Dan Fallon, 67, who formerly worked as a psychologist in Chicago. He and his wife, Anna, bought their residence in a cohousing community called Manzanita Village in Prescott, Ariz., in 2003 and rented it out until they moved there in 2011.
“我的个性中有很隐逸的一面，但我也认识到，自己可能太离群索居了，”67岁的丹·法伦(Dan Fallon)说道，他曾是芝加哥的一位心理学家。2003年，他和妻子安娜(Anna)在亚利桑那州的普雷斯科特市(Prescott)买下了曼扎尼塔村(Manzanita Village)共居社区中的住宅，并把那里租了出去。直到2011年，他们俩才搬到那里居住。
Mr. Fallon said Manzanita Village was no retirement community.
法伦说，曼扎尼塔村并不是只有退休老人的社区。
“It’s pretty wicked noisy around here sometimes with the kids that are running around,” he said.
“这里很吵，有时候孩子们会到处乱跑，”他说。
But Mr. Fallon said he preferred living among a range of generations. He said some of the older residents had recently helped some of the children build a fort in a ravine.
但是法伦说，他宁愿像这样跨代共居。他还说，有些年长的居民最近帮孩子们在山谷中建了一座要塞。
With cohousing, he said, it’s comforting that “there are structured opportunities to get together and share what’s going on in your life.”
在这种共居方式下，他说：“大家可以创造机会，聚在一起，共同分享你的生活经历。”这让人非常欣慰。