MAKE no mistake, the interns are fighting back.
可以确定一点，实习生们正在发起反击。
Last month, a federal judge in New York ruled that unpaid interns on the movie “Black Swan” should have received at least the minimum wage. The judge also allowed a class-action suit to go forward against the Fox Entertainment Group, the parent company of the film’s production division.
上个月，纽约一位联邦法官在裁决中指出，电影《黑天鹅》 (Black Swan)剧组应为其无薪实习生支付不少于最低工资的薪金。该法官还批准提起集体诉讼，直接控诉《黑天鹅》制作部门母公司福克斯娱乐集团(Fox Entertainment Group)的违法行为。
Gutsy and improbable when it was first filed two years ago, the “Black Swan” case was a pioneering direct challenge to the internship system. Now more than 15 other lawsuits have followed in its wake, according to an online database maintained by ProPublica, the investigative journalism Web site.
两年前《黑天鹅》剧组遭到起诉，成为直接挑战实习体系之先例，而原告则被视为勇敢和知其不可而为之的典范。据调查报道网站ProPublica维护的在线数据库显示，目前，又有超过15起针对无薪实习的诉讼案接踵而至。
The companies being sued operate in a wide range of intern-heavy industries. Global brands, famous television and fashion personalities, multinational subsidiaries flush with profits — these are some of the employers that have refused to pay young workers at least $7.25 an hour. How have they done this for so long?
正在面临起诉的公司涉及领域广泛，对实习生需求巨大。而拒绝支付年轻雇员最低7.25美元时薪的雇主包括全球知名品牌公司、电视界及时尚界名流，以及利润丰厚的跨国子公司。长期以来，他们为何能一直这样操作下去？
The federal law is clear: if internships at profit-making companies are to be unpaid, they must foster an educational environment. (The rules are different for nonprofit and governmental agencies.)
联邦法律明文规定：营利企业如果没有向实习生支付薪酬，则必须提供教育环境。（以上法规不适用于非营利机构及政府机构。）
Good internships are out there — ones that pay, ones that train and ones that lead to real jobs at the end. But many others fall far short — and more people are taking action. “I think enough people have finally seen what a trap this has become,” said Eric Glatt, one of the victorious interns in the “Black Swan” case.
好的实习机会的确存在——有的企业支付薪水，有的提供培训，有的在实习结束时帮助学生转正。但是许多企业做的还远远不够——而更多的人正在采取行动。“我想已经有足够多的人最终认清了这一陷阱，”在《黑天鹅》案中胜诉的实习生之一埃里克·格拉特(Eric Glatt)说。
In addition to filing lawsuits, interns are organizing beyond the courtroom, using some of the same strategies as fast-food workers, freelancers and various groups of part-time, temporary or guest workers.
除了提起诉讼，实习生们还采取了和快餐店员工、自由职业者、各种兼职人群及临时工们相同的策略，在法庭外组织起来。
For example, two students at New York University recently created a petition demanding that the university stop advertising unpaid internships on campus; more than a thousand people signed in a matter of days.
比如，纽约大学(New York University)的两名学生最近起草了一份请愿书，要求学校停止在校园内张贴无薪实习广告；在短短几天时间里，就有1000多人在请愿书上签了字。
With the Obama administration now pushing to increase the minimum wage, some activists are focusing on what they see as government hypocrisy. Washington is a hub for overworked, unpaid interns, the White House and Congress included. What good is a minimum-wage increase when so many people work and make no wages at all?
日前，随着奥巴马政府不断推高最低工资标准，一些活动人士将目光聚焦在他们所认为的政府伪善之处上。在华盛顿，包括白宫与国会在内，聚集着大量辛劳却没有薪水的实习生。如果有太多人埋头工作却得不到工资，那么提高最低工资又有什么意义呢？
“There are lots of people who care about this issue; there’s a lot of anger about this issue. We want to build a movement,” said Mikey Franklin, co-founder of the new Fair Pay Campaign, who plans to hire professional organizers to galvanize interns in hubs like New York and Los Angeles. He hopes for support from organized labor, whose leaders, he said, are waking up to the issue’s mobilizing potential.
“新公平薪酬运动”(Fair Pay Campaign)的联合发起人米奇·富兰克林(Mikey Franklin)说道：“有许多人都在关注这个问题，也有许多人为之感到气愤。因此，我们想要发起一场运动。”富兰克林计划雇佣几名职业组织者来激发纽约和洛杉矶等核心城市实习生的热情。他希望获得工会的支持，而工会领袖们正渐渐意识到该运动的动员潜力。
And Intern Labor Rights, a New York-based group formed out of the Occupy Wall Street movement, is forming a coalition with like-minded groups in Canada, Britain, France, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Austria. In all of those countries, campaigns to make internships fairer are also under way.
“实习生劳工权”(Intern Labor Rights)是一个由占领华尔街(Occupy Wall Street)运动催生的团体，总部位于纽约。目前，它正与来自加拿大、英国、法国、瑞士、荷兰以及澳大利亚志同道合的团体结盟。在以上所有国家当中，为争取更加公平的实习环境所进行的运动，依然任重而道远。
What interns are demanding is hardly a mystery: respect for their work. In short, it’s time to start envisioning and putting into practice a healthy, effective internship culture. For better or worse, pay is the fundamental currency of respect in every modern economy. Unless it’s a bona fide training or volunteer position, an internship should be paid, open to all and transparently advertised — and should never result in the displacement of other employees.
实习生想要的并不神秘，无非是自己的劳动成果能够受到尊重。总之，现在是时候开始展望一种健康高效的实习文化，并将其付诸实践了。不管怎样，在每一个现代经济体当中，薪水都是表达尊重的基本货币形式。除了接收善意的培训或者提供志愿服务，任何实习都应该得到透明的宣传，向民众公开并支付实习生报酬——当然，也绝不能导致其他员工离职。
TRAINING, mentoring, experience and opportunity are particularly vital for interns, which is precisely why many of them are willing to work longer, harder and for lower wages, running errands and doing other menial tasks. Interns know that they’re starting at the bottom, but they need employers to meet them halfway.
对于实习生来说，培训、指导、经验与机遇可谓至关重要。因此他们中的许多人甘愿拿着微薄的工资加班加点卖力工作，也不惜跑腿打杂，或者干其他的体力活。实习生们确实明白自己起步较低，但是他们也需要老板做出让步。
Those who can’t afford to work without pay are eager for the chance to break into the intern-heavy fields that are now all but closed to them. The demand for meaningful career options — coupled with a willingness to work hard for them — has never been stronger.
那些没有工资就养活不了自己的人，正热切盼望着有机会挺进实习生需求量巨大的领域，虽然这些领域几乎全都向他们关上了大门。做出有意义的职业选择，并愿意为之艰苦奋斗的需求从没有现在这样强烈。
And yet, for too many people, internships have become slightly shameful, with overtones of menial work, immaturity, parental dependence and being stuck.
然而对很多人来说，实习已经变得不那么体面了。它意味着堆积成山的杂活，幼稚无知，对父母的依赖，以及进退两难的局面。
As long as the current system remains stubbornly in place, expect the intern revolt to continue.
只要现行的体制还顽固地起着作用，那么这场实习革命就不会停止。