WASHINGTON — The Pentagon announced Tuesday that 800 soldiers, about 40 Abrams battle tanks and 40 armored infantry fighting vehicles would be deployed to South Korea next month as part of the Defense Department’s “rebalance” of forces across Asia and the Pacific.
华盛顿——周二，五角大楼(Pentagon)宣布下月将向韩国派遣800名士兵、大约40辆“艾布拉姆斯”(Abrams)作战坦克和40辆装甲步兵战车，并称此举属于国防部(Defense Department)对整个亚太地区美军军力进行的“调整”。
Pentagon officials emphasized that the nine-month deployment of a battalion from the First Cavalry Division at Fort Hood, Tex., had been under discussion for a year and was not tied to any specific security concern or provocation from North Korea.
五角大楼官员强调，让德克萨斯州胡德堡的第一骑兵师(First Cavalry Division)的一个营在韩国驻防9个月一事已经经过一年的讨论，并不针对任何具体安全问题或朝鲜的挑衅。
“This addition of forces to Korea is part of the rebalance to the Pacific,” said Col. Steven H. Warren, director of Pentagon press operations. “It’s been long planned and is part of our enduring commitment to security on the Korean Peninsula.”
“这次向韩国增兵属于对太平洋地区驻军的调整，”五角大楼媒体事务负责人史蒂夫·H·沃伦上校(Col. Steven H. Warren)说，“此事早已列入计划，是我们维护朝鲜半岛安全的持久承诺的一部分。”
Pentagon officials confirmed, though, that the additional troops and armor would increase combat readiness and war-fighting ability for the United States and South Korea.
但五角大楼官员证实，增派的兵力和装备将提高美国和韩国的战备水平和作战能力。
Pentagon officials said the rotation of the additional Army battalion into South Korea would still leave the number of American service members there below 28,500, as set out by treaty.
五角大楼官员表示，这个陆军营队前往韩国之后，美国在韩国的驻军人数依然会在2.85万人以下，符合两国之间的协定。
Some brigades that historically had been based in South Korea were moved to the Middle East for the wars of the past decade, and President Obama had vowed to rebalance the efforts of the government — diplomatic, economic and military — to the Asia-Pacific region as the conflict in Iraq ended and the one in Afghanistan wound down.
过去十年，为了应对中东地区的战争，历来驻扎在韩国的一些旅队被调遣到了中东。奥巴马总统已经郑重宣告，随着伊拉克冲突的结束和阿富汗冲突的平息，美国政府要调整部署，把外交、经济和军事重心转向亚太地区。
The order to rotate an additional Army battalion into South Korea may be viewed as a step to quiet critics who have complained that the new Asia-Pacific policy has been mostly talk, with little done to specifically carry it out.
额外派遣一个营队进驻韩国的命令，也许会被视为一个安抚批评人士的招数，后者抱怨说，新的亚太政策基本上是纸上谈兵，当局几乎没有采取什么具体举措来落实这项政策。
Over recent months, the Pentagon has ordered a number of measures to deter North Korean aggression and to reassure an important ally, South Korea.
近几个月，五角大楼已下令采取了不少措施，旨在遏阻朝鲜的攻击，打消重要盟友韩国的疑虑。
At times of tension, in particular over North Korea’s nuclear or missile program, the Pentagon has sent advanced fighters, stealth bombers and ballistic-missile-defense warships on temporary assignment in and around South Korea.
局势紧张之时，尤其是因朝鲜核计划或导弹计划引发紧张局势的时刻，五角大楼曾将先进的战斗机、隐形轰炸机和弹道导弹防御舰船派往韩国本土及周边执行临时任务。
The troop rotation was announced as Secretary of State John Kerry met here with his South Korean counterpart, Yun Byung-se.
前述部队换防消息公布之时，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)和韩国外长尹炳世(Yun Byung-se)正在此间会晤。
“The United States and the Republic of Korea stand very firmly united — without an inch of daylight between us, not a sliver of daylight — on the subject of opposition to North Korea’s destabilizing nuclear and ballistic missile programs and proliferation activities, and the international community stands with us,” Mr. Kerry said.
克里说，“关于反对朝鲜实施破坏稳定的核计划、弹道导弹计划和核扩散活动的议题，美国和大韩民国有着非常团结一致的态度，我们之间没有半分嫌隙，连一丝嫌隙都没有，国际社会也站在我们这一边。”