CHICAGO — After days of silence, J. Dennis Hastert, a former speaker of the House of Representatives, on Tuesday pleaded not guilty to federal charges that he illegally structured bank withdrawals and lied to the authorities about millions of dollars he had promised to pay someone for misconduct that occurred decades ago.
芝加哥——在沉默多天之后，联邦众议院前议长J·丹尼斯·哈斯泰特(J. Dennis Hastert)于周二对自身面临的多项联邦指控提出无罪抗辩。他被控布局性非法提款，并在承诺向他人支付数百万美元封口费以掩盖几十年前的不当行为的问题上向当局撒谎。
It was the first time Hastert had appeared in public since the charges were announced last month, and he was met with a crush of news media in the federal courthouse here.
这是自上个月遭到指控以来，哈斯泰特首次公开露面。他在芝加哥的联邦法院出现时遭到众多新闻媒体的封堵。
Hastert was also told not to leave the United States and to surrender his passport as well as any guns that he might own.
相关机构禁止哈斯泰特离开美国，并要求他上交护照，以及可能拥有的所有枪支。
In late May, Hastert 73, was indicted on charges of structuring cash withdrawals and lying to federal investigators in connection to what prosecutors described as an arrangement to pay a person, identified only as Individual A, a total of $3.5 million in exchange for not making public misconduct against that individual.
今年5月底，73岁的哈斯泰特遭到正式指控，罪名是布局性提取现金，并在封口费问题上向联邦调查人员撒谎。检方称哈斯泰特约定向未具名的个人A支付350万美元（约合2200万元人民币）的封口费，以换取此人不对外公布哈斯泰特对其实施的不当行为。
Two people briefed on the evidence uncovered in an FBI investigation have said that Hastert, who once taught and coached wrestling in suburban Yorkville, Illinois, was paying a former student not to say publicly that Hastert had sexually abused him decades ago.
对联邦调查局(FBI)在本案调查中发现的证据知情的二人表示，曾在伊利诺伊州约克维尔郊区授课并担任摔跤教练的哈斯泰特，付钱给原来的一个学生，让他不要公开自己数十年前对他进行过性侵犯一事。
According to the indictment, Hastert, who had a lucrative career as a Washington lobbyist after leaving Congress in 2007, withdrew $1.7 million over the last four years to pay the individual.
2007年从国会卸任之后，哈斯泰特开启了待遇颇丰的华盛顿说客生涯。起诉书称，过去四年里，他共取出170万美元用于付钱给此人。
The indictment against Hastert does not include charges of sexual abuse. Legal experts said the statute of limitations had almost certainly run out on any such claims, which would generally be pursued in state court rather than in a federal one. Hastert worked as a teacher and coach in Yorkville from 1965 to 1981.
哈斯泰特所受的指控并不包括性侵犯。法律专家称，此类指控的诉讼时效几乎肯定已经过期，而且追究它的通常是州法院，而非联邦法院。哈斯泰特在约克维尔担任老师和教练的时段是在1965年至1981年间。
Instead, Hastert is accused of structuring his cash withdrawals in amounts less than $10,000 in order to avoid requirements that banks report larger sums. Generally, such structuring charges are part of drug or money-laundering cases, rather than stand-alone accusations.
哈斯泰特被控有计划地反复以低于1万美元的金额取款，以规避银行需上报金额达五位数的现金交易的硬性要求。一般而言，这种布局性提款的指控与毒品或洗钱案相关，而不会作为独立指控出现。