WASHINGTON — The government shutdown is endangering what America eats, food safety experts said this week, as all inspections of domestic food except meat and poultry have halted and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recalled furloughed workers to handle a salmonella outbreak that sickened hundreds of people in 18 states.
华盛顿——本周，食品安全专家称，政府停摆已威胁到美国人吃的食物，肉类和禽类之外的所有国产食品的检查都已暂停，美国疾病控制与预防中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称 CDC）召回了停薪休假的雇员来应对一场沙门氏菌疫情，该疫情已致18个州的数百人患病。
Offices are dark across the federal agencies charged with making sure that the fruit, vegetables, dairy products and a vast array of other domestically produced food are safe to consume. Inspectors, administrative staff, lab technicians, communications specialists and other support staff members have been sent home while lawmakers wrangle over government spending.
负责确保水果、蔬菜、奶制品以及无数种其他国产食品可安全食用的各个联邦政府部门都已停止运行。检查员、行政人员、实验室技术员、沟通专员以及其他支持性岗位的工作人员都被迫停职回家，与此同时，国会议员仍在为政府开支争论不休。
“This is a self-inflicted wound that is putting people’s health at risk,” said Representative Rosa L. DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut, a longtime food safety advocate.
“这属于自己造成的伤害，将人们的健康至于危险境地，”长期倡导食品安全的康涅狄格州民主党众议员罗莎·L·德劳罗(Rosa L. DeLauro)说道。
Because the shutdown comes on top of earlier budget cuts to the agencies, she said, “you’re creating the potential for a real public health crisis.”
德劳罗表示，由于这些政府部门的预算在政府停摆之前就已遭到削减，“现在你正在为一场真正的公共卫生危机制造机会。”
At the same time, several crucial agriculture reports used by traders and farmers have been canceled because of the shutdown, seriously hampering decision making about planting and disrupting commodities markets. The highest-profile report canceled because of the shutdown is World Agriculture Supply and Demand Estimates, which supplies statistics on the worldwide production of crops from cotton to corn. It also provides data on other agricultural products, including meat and sugar.
同时，贸易商和农场主使用的几份重要农业报告也因政府停摆而取消，严重影响了他们针对种植和混乱商品市场的决策过程。因政府停摆而取消的最著名报告是《世界农业供需评估》(World Agriculture Supply and Demand Estimates)，该报告提供从棉花到玉米等多种农作物全球产量的数据，还提供肉和糖等其他农产品的数据。
“It leaves the commodities market in a bit of a fog,” said Christopher Narayan, an analyst with the bank Société Générale in New York, who said investors would face difficulties in obtaining accurate information.
“这让大宗商品市场的现状变得不太明朗，”法国兴业银行(Société Générale)纽约分支机构的分析师克里斯托弗·纳拉扬(Christopher Narayan)表示。他还说，投资者将很难获取准确信息。
At the Food and Drug Administration, which is responsible for inspecting the bulk of food that Americans eat, the agency has gone from a goal of inspecting about 200 plants per week to none and has reduced inspections of imported food. At the Agriculture Department, a meat and poultry hot line that consumers can call for information about food safety or to report problems is closed. At the C.D.C., about 68 percent of staff members were furloughed, including several epidemiologists and dozens of other workers who oversee a database that tracks food-borne illness.
美国食品与药品管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）负责检查美国人吃的大部分食品，其目标已由每周检查约200种作物减为零，并且减少了对进口食品的检查。农业部有一条肉禽类热线，可供消费者征询食品安全信息或者举报问题，这条热线如今已经关闭。在CDC，约68%的工作人员遭到暂时停职，其中包括几名流行病学家，以及数十名监管食物传播疾病追踪数据库的雇员。
These staff members identify clusters of sickness linked to potentially dangerous strains of bacteria like E. coli and salmonella, and their absences have significantly reduced the center’s ability to respond to an outbreak.
这些工作人员负责识别大肠杆菌和沙门氏菌等潜在危险菌株等引起的征候群，他们的停职严重降低了CDC应对疫情的能力。
Even though the agency has brought back about 30 furloughed workers to handle the salmonella outbreak, which has been linked to raw chicken, the C.D.C. remains short-handed, said Barbara Reynolds, a center spokeswoman. “We’re still down to a skeleton crew,” she said.
CDC女发言人芭芭拉·雷诺兹(Barbara Reynolds)说，CDC已经召回大约30名暂时休假的工作人员来处理与生鸡肉有关的沙门氏菌疫情，人手却仍然不足。她说，“我们这里仍然只有最基本的人手。”
Others worry that the agency is not getting its message out.
还有人担心CDC无法及时传达讯息。
“When you have an outbreak and health alert like this, you have to get this information into the hands of consumers,” said Caroline Smith DeWaal, food safety director at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a Washington research group. “The C.D.C. may have brought back some staffers, but their communications staff is working at reduced capacity and that’s a concern. The agency’s ability to get information out is limited.”
“每当出现疫情和这样的卫生警报，都必须把相关信息传达给消费者，”华盛顿公共利益科学中心(Center for Science in the Public Interest)食品安全主管卡 罗琳·史密斯·德瓦尔(Caroline Smith DeWaal)说。“CDC或许是召回了一些职员，但他们的沟通人员的工作能力正在降低，这是个问题。CDC发布信息的能力受到了限制。”
The Agriculture Department, which traced the salmonella outbreak to a poultry producer in California, has been spared the brunt of the sequestration cuts and the government shutdown. Since Upton Sinclair’s classic 1906 novel “The Jungle” exposed unsanitary conditions at meatpacking plants, federal law has required inspectors at meat and poultry processing plants.
经农业部追踪调查，沙门氏菌疫情的爆发与加州的一个禽肉加工厂有关。农业部逃脱了经费削减和政府关门所带来的冲击。自厄普顿·辛克莱(Upton Sinclair)1906年的经典小说《屠场》(The Jungle)曝光肉类加工厂的不卫生状况后，联邦法律就要求工作人员对肉类和禽类加工厂进行检查。
“We’re up and running,” said David Goldman, assistant administrator with the Agriculture Department’s Food Safety and Inspection Service, which inspects meat and poultry plants. “Our inspectors, labs and field investigators are still on the job.”
“我们在正常工作，”农业部食品安全与检查局(Food Safety and Inspection Service)的助理负责人戴维·戈德曼(David Goldman)说。该局负责肉类和禽类加工厂的检查。“我们的检查员、实验室和实地调查人员仍在继续工作。”
At the F.D.A., about 45 percent of the agency’s staff members are furloughed. “F.D.A. is doing what it can under this difficult situation to protect public health,” said Steven Immergut, the agency’s assistant commissioner for media affairs.
FDA大约有45%的员工都已停薪休假。FDA的媒体事务助理专员史蒂文·伊默古特(Steven Immergut)说，“FDA正在这种艰难的条件下尽力保护公众健康。”
Food safety advocates say that even without the government shutdown and budget cuts, the agency is limited in what it can do. Under normal circumstances, it inspects less than 2 percent of most imported food. (Imported meat and poultry are inspected by the Agriculture Department.)
食品安全倡导人士称，即便政府不关门，预算也没有削减，FDA能做的事情仍然有限。正常情况下，它只会对大多数进口食品中的不到2%进行检查。（进口肉类和禽类由农业部负责检查。）
The F.D.A. will not say what percentage of imported food is now inspected, only that it is less than 2 percent. The agency continues to deploy staff members at the nation’s ports to inspect some of the millions of pounds of food that come in each day from abroad, officials said.
FDA不愿透露目前有多大比例的进口食品会受到检查，只是说不到2%。官员称，FDA仍在继续安排工作人员前往美国各港口，对每天从海外进口的数百万磅食物进行抽检。
About 20 percent of the food Americans eat is imported, including 85 percent of seafood and a significant amount of produce. But officials said the inspections consisted mainly of routine paperwork checks. The agency will conduct physical inspection of food and take samples but will be limited because of staff reductions, the agency said.
美国人食用的食物有大约20%是进口食品，其中85%为海产品，还有相当一部分农产品。但官员表示，检查内容主要包括例行的单证检查。FDA称，他们将对食物进行实物检查，还会提取样本，但由于工作人员减少，他们的工作将受到限制。