A private American delegation visited North Korea last month — two weeks after the country’s most recent nuclear bomb test — in a low-key humanitarian mission carried out with the Obama administration’s support, the organizer and the White House said Friday.
上个月，一个私人性质的美国代表团低调访问了朝鲜——就在访问的两周前，该国刚刚实施了其最新核弹试验。组织者和白宫周五表示，该代表团是在奥巴马政府的支持下前往朝鲜执行人道主义任务的。
The visit appeared to be the first face-to-face contact in North Korea between such an American delegation and North Korean officials in nearly two years.
此类美国代表团与朝鲜政府官员在当地进行面对面接触，近两年来尚属首次。
Although the visitors were not acting in any American governmental capacity, North Korea’s agreement to receive them suggested that both sides might be seeking an opening, however small, for more engagement — despite tensions over North Korea’s nuclear weapon and missile development that have left the country severely isolated.
相关人员没有用任何政府身份来进行此次访问，但朝鲜同意其到访的行为暗示着两国均可能在寻找更多接触契机，不管机会有多小——尽管朝鲜的核武器和导弹开发造成的紧张气氛已使这个国家被严重孤立。
The Sept. 24-27 visit was organized by the Richardson Center for Global Engagement, a nonprofit group led by Bill Richardson, a former New Mexico governor and United Nations ambassador, who has served as an intermediary between North Korea and the United States for many years.
这次9月24日至27日的访问由理查德森全球事务中心(Richardson Center for Global Engagement)组织，该组织由前新墨西哥州州长、前联合国大使比尔·里查德森(Bill Richardson)设立，多年来，他一直充当朝鲜和美国的中间人。
In a statement, the group said its delegation had discussed resuming work on recovering the remains of American soldiers from the Korean War; possible help for victims of North Korea’s disastrous floods; and an American request that the North release Otto F. Warmbier, a University of Virginia student imprisoned since January.
在一份声明中，代表团表示访问期间双方讨论的议题包括：重启从朝鲜寻回参与朝鲜战争的美国士兵遗体的工作；对朝鲜洪灾受害者提供援助的可能性；以及提出美国的要求，希望朝鲜释放于今年一月被监禁的弗吉尼亚大学学生奥托·弗雷德里克·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)。
Mr. Warmbier, who had been on an organized tour of North Korea, was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor on charges that he had tried to steal a political poster from his hotel.
瓦姆比尔是跟团前往朝鲜旅游的，他被判15年劳动教养，罪名是试图从酒店偷走政治宣传海报。
“The Richardson Center delegation was treated well and with respect,” the group’s statement said. During its meetings, the statement said, “frank and good discussions were held on these issues and very modest progress was made.”
“理查德森中心代表团受到了礼遇，”代表团在声明中表示，会面期间“就这些议题进行了坦诚和良好的会谈，取得了些微进展”。
Mr. Richardson’s top aide, Mickey Bergman, led the delegation, which also included Rick Downes, the president of the Coalition of Families of Korean & Cold War POW/MIAs, and P. Willey a professor and forensic anthropologist at California State University, Chico.
理查德森的首席助手米奇·伯格曼(Mickey Bergman)为此次代表团团长，该团成员包括朝鲜战争与冷战战俘/战争失踪人员家属联盟(Coalition of Families of Korean & Cold War POW/MIAs)会长里克·唐斯(Rick Downes)，以及美国加州州立大学奇科分校教授与法医人类学家P·威利(P. Willey)。
The visitors met with the vice minister of foreign affairs, Han Song-ryol, and other North Korean officials, as well as Sweden’s ambassador, Torkel Stiernlof, who looks after American interests in North Korea because the United States and the North have no diplomatic relations.
访问人员与朝鲜外务省副部长韩成烈(Han Song-ryol)，其他几位朝鲜官员，以及瑞典大使托克尔·谢恩洛夫(Torkel Stiernlof)进行了会面。由于美朝两国没有建立外交关系，因此谢恩洛夫在朝鲜代理美国相关事务。
In a telephone interview, Mr. Bergman said he could not elaborate on what was discussed concerning Mr. Warmbier, who has not received any consular visits since March. Mr. Warmbier’s family, from Cincinnati, has declined to talk about his incarceration.
在电话采访中，伯格曼表示无法透露与瓦姆比尔相关的会谈细节，后者自三月起就未能受到领事探访。瓦姆比尔来自辛辛那提的家人拒绝就其被监禁一事进行讨论。
Mr. Bergman said the North Koreans were especially interested in help for areas affected by flooding, which severely ravaged northeastern parts of the country in August and left at least 70,000 people homeless.
伯格曼说朝鲜对受洪灾影响地区的援助事宜尤感兴趣，朝鲜东北部不少地区八月受灾情况严重，至少七万人因此流离失所。
“But we have to be able to have the humanitarian interests from our side, such as the return of Otto Warmbier and the recovery of remains of American servicemen, met as well,” Mr. Bergman said.
“但我方的一些人道主义利益也须得到满足，比如瓦姆比尔返美以及寻回美国军人遗体，”伯格曼说。
Asked to comment on the trip, Ned Price, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said in an emailed statement, “The White House was consulted and is supportive of this humanitarian effort by Governor Richardson’s Center.”
被要求对此次访问置评时，美国国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的发言人内德·普赖斯(Ned Price)在一封邮件声明中说，“白宫给出过相关意见，也很支持理查德森州长的中心的人道主义行动。”