WASHINGTON — To wage war in Yemen, Saudi Arabia is using F-15 fighter jets bought from Boeing. Pilots from the United Arab Emirates are flying Lockheed Martin’s F-16 to bomb both Yemen and Syria. Soon, the Emirates are expected to complete a deal with General Atomics for a fleet of Predator drones to run spying missions in their neighborhood.
华盛顿——在与也门进行的战争中，沙特阿拉伯正使用着从波音公司购买的F-15战斗机。阿拉伯联合酋长国的飞行员正驾驶着洛克希德·马丁公司的F-16战斗机轰炸也门和叙利亚。阿联酋不久有望与通用原子公司(General Atomics)做成一笔交易，购买一批“捕食者”(Predator)无人机，在邻近也门和叙利亚的区域执行侦查任务。
As the Middle East descends into proxy wars, sectarian conflicts and battles against terrorist networks, countries in the region that have stockpiled American military hardware are now actually using it and wanting more. The result is a boom for American defense contractors looking for foreign business in an era of shrinking Pentagon budgets — but also the prospect of a dangerous new arms race in a region where the map of alliances has been sharply redrawn.
随着中东陷入代理人战争、宗派冲突，以及针对恐怖主义网络的战斗，该地区长期以来一直购买美国军事硬件的各国，如今真的在使用这些硬件，并想购买更多的。这给处于五角大楼预算萎缩时代的美国国防承包商带来了寻找国外业务的好机会，但也给一个联盟版图已出现极大改变的地区带来了一个危险的新军备竞赛前景。
Last week, defense industry officials told Congress that they were expecting within days a request from Arab allies fighting the Islamic State — Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan and Egypt — to buy thousands of American-made missiles, bombs and other weapons, replenishing an arsenal that has been depleted over the past year.
上周，国防工业高管们告诉国会，他们在未来几天内预计将得到来自与伊斯兰国作战的阿拉伯盟国的要求，这些联国包括沙特阿拉伯、阿联酋、卡塔尔、巴林、约旦和埃及，它们希望购买数以千计的美制导弹、炸弹及其他武器，以弥补过去一年里消耗掉的军火。
The United States has long put restrictions on the types of weapons that American defense firms can sell to Arab nations, meant to ensure that Israel keeps a military advantage against its traditional adversaries in the region. But because Israel and the Arab states are now in a de facto alliance against Iran, the Obama administration has been far more willing to allow the sale of advanced weapons in the Persian Gulf, with few public objections from Israel.
美国长期以来一直限制美国军工企业能卖给阿拉伯国家的武器类型，为的是确保以色列对其在该地区的传统对手上保持军事优势。但由于以色列与这些阿拉伯国家目前实际上形成了一个针对伊朗的联盟，奥巴马政府比以往任何时候都愿意把先进武器出售给海湾国家，对此也几乎没有来自以色列的公开反对。
“When you look at it, Israel’s strategic calculation is a simple one,” said Anthony H. Cordesman of the Center for Strategic and International Studies. The gulf countries “do not represent a meaningful threat” to Israel, he said. “They do represent a meaningful counterbalance to Iran.”
“你观察一下就会发现，以色列的战略计算非常简单，”战略与国际研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的安东尼·H·科德斯曼(Anthony H.Cordesman)说。海湾国家对以色列“不构成一个重大威胁”，他说。“但它们的确是针对伊朗的一个重要制衡。”
Industry analysts and Middle East experts say that the region’s turmoil, and the determination of the wealthy Sunni nations to battle Shiite Iran for regional supremacy, will lead to a surge in new orders for the defense industry’s latest, most high-tech hardware.
国防行业分析人士和中东问题专家说，中东地区的动荡，以及富裕的逊尼派国家为争夺地区霸权与什叶派的伊朗作战的决心，将导致对国防工业最新、最高尖技术硬件的新订单激增。
The militaries of gulf nations have been “a combination of something between symbols of deterrence and national flying clubs,” said Richard L. Aboulafia, a defense analyst at the Teal Group. “Now they’re suddenly being used.”
海湾国家的军队一直是“介于威慑象征和国家飞行俱乐部之间的某种东西的结合，”蒂尔集团(Teal Group)分析师理查德·L·阿布拉菲亚(Richard L. Aboulafia)说。“现在，他们突然开始投入实战了。”
Saudi Arabia spent more than $80 billion on weaponry last year — the most ever, and more than either France or Britain — and has become the world’s fourth-largest defense market, according to figures released last week by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, which tracks global military spending. The Emirates spent nearly $23 billion last year, more than three times what they spent in 2006.
据跟踪全球军事开支的斯德哥尔摩国际和平研究所上周公布的数字，沙特阿拉伯去年在购买武器装备上花了逾800亿美元（约合4960亿元人民币），是历年来最高的，超过法国和英国这方面开支的总合，已成为世界上第四大国防产品市场。阿联酋去年购买武器的开支近230亿美元，是该国2006年这类开支的三倍还多。
Qatar, another gulf country with bulging coffers and a desire to assert its influence around the Middle East, is on a shopping spree. Last year, Qatar signed an $11 billion deal with the Pentagon to purchase Apache attack helicopters and Patriot and Javelin air-defense systems. Now the tiny nation is hoping to make a large purchase of Boeing F-15 fighters to replace its aging fleet of French Mirage jets. Qatari officials are expected to present the Obama administration with a wish list of advanced weapons before they come to Washington next month for meetings with other gulf nations.
卡塔尔是国库充裕、希望在中东具有影响力的另一个海湾国家，它也在疯狂购买武器。去年，卡塔尔与五角大楼签署了一笔110亿美元的交易，买来了阿帕奇武装直升机、以及爱国者和标枪防空系统。现在，这个小国希望能下一笔大订单，购买波音公司的F-15战斗机，以取代其老化的法国幻影战斗机群。卡塔尔官员下月将来华盛顿参加与其他海湾国家的会议，预计他们在到访之前，将向奥巴马政府提交该国希望购买的先进武器清单。
American defense firms are following the money. Boeing opened an office in Doha, Qatar, in 2011, and Lockheed Martin set up an office there this year. Lockheed created a division in 2013 devoted solely to foreign military sales, and the company’s chief executive, Marillyn Hewson, has said that Lockheed needs to increase foreign business — with a goal of global arms sales’ becoming 25 percent to 30 percent of its revenue — in part to offset the shrinking of the Pentagon budget after the post-Sept. 11 boom.
美国的国防企业正在跟着钱走。波音公司于2011年在卡塔尔多哈设立了办事处，洛克希德·马丁公司今年也在那里设立了办事处。2013年，洛克希德成立了专门负责对外销售军火的部门，公司首席执行官玛丽莲·休森(Marillyn Hewson)曾表示，洛克希德需要增加出口业务，目标是让全球武器销售占到其总营销额的25％到30％，以部分地弥补五角大楼因9·11事件而预算一度大增之后出现的经费萎缩。
American intelligence agencies believe that the proxy wars in the Middle East could last for years, which will make countries in the region even more eager for the F-35 fighter jet, considered to be the jewel of America’s future arsenal of weapons. The plane, the world’s most expensive weapons project, has stealth capabilities and has been marketed heavily to European and Asian allies. It has not yet been peddled to Arab allies because of concerns about preserving Israel’s military edge.
美国情报部门认为，中东地区的代理人战争可能会持续好几年，这将让中东地区更渴望得到F-35战斗机，该战斗机被认为是美国未来武器库的瑰宝。这个机型是世界上最昂贵的武器项目的产物，它具有隐身能力，并已大量推销到美国在欧洲和亚洲的盟国。但出于维护以色列军事优势的考虑，尚未向阿拉伯盟友销售。
But with the balance of power in the Middle East in flux, several defense analysts said that could change. Russia is a major arms supplier to Iran, and a decision by President Vladimir V. Putin to sell an advanced air defense system to Iran could increase demand for the F-35, which is likely to have the ability to penetrate Russian-made defenses.
但一些防务分析人士说，随着中东力量均衡的变化，那种考虑可能会改变。俄罗斯是伊朗的一个主要武器供应商，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)向伊朗出售先进防空系统的决定，可能会增加对F-35战斗机的需求，该机型有可能具有渗透俄制防御系统的能力。
“This could be the precipitating event: the emerging Sunni-Shia civil war coupled with the sale of advanced Russian air defense systems to Iran,” Mr. Aboulafia said. “If anything is going to result in F-35 clearance to the gulf states, this is the combination of events.”
阿布拉菲亚说，“这可能会成为一个诱发事件：逊尼派与什叶派之间发生内战，加上向伊朗出售先进的俄制防空系统。如果有任何事件能导致获准向海湾国家出售F-35战斗机的话，那就是这个事件组合。”
At the same time, giving the gulf states the ability to strike Iran at a time of their choosing might be the last thing the United States wants. There are already questions about how judicious Washington’s allies are in using American weaponry.
与此同时，让海湾国家有能力在自己选择的时间攻击伊朗，可能是美国最不希望看到的。已经有人在质疑，华盛顿的盟友在利用美国的武器时是否审慎。
“A good number of the American arms that have been used in Yemen by the Saudis have been used against civilian populations,” said Daryl Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association, an assertion that Saudi Arabia denies.
“沙特在也门使用的大量美国武器都针对的是平民，”美国军控协会(Arms Control Association)的执行主任达里尔·金博尔(Daryl Kimball)说。沙特阿拉伯否认了这种说法。
Mr. Kimball said he viewed the increase in arms sales to the region “with a great deal of trepidation, as it is leading to an escalation in the type and number and sophistication in the weaponry in these countries.”
金博尔说，对该地区武器销售的增长“令他非常不安，因为这会令这些国家的武器种类、数量和精密程度升级”。
Congress enacted a law in 2008 requiring that arms sales allow Israel to maintain a “qualitative military edge” in the region. All sales to the Middle East are evaluated based on how they will affect Israeli military superiority. But the Obama administration has also viewed improving the militaries of select Arab nations — those that see Iran as a threat in the region — as critical to Israeli security.
美国国会在2008年颁布了一项法律，要求通过武器销售让以色列在该地区保持“实质的军事优势”。所有对中东的武器销售，都会根据它们对以色列军事优势地位可能造成的影响进行评估。
“It is also important to note that our close relationships with countries in the region are critical to regional stability and Israel’s security,” Andrew J. Shapiro said in a speech in 2011, when he was an assistant secretary of state for political-military affairs. “Our relationships with Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon and many Gulf countries allow the United States to strongly advocate for peace and stability in the region.”
“我们还必须注意到，我们与该地区一些国家的紧密关系，对地区稳定和以色列的安全至关重要，”安德鲁·J·夏皮罗(Andrew J. Shapiro)在2011年的一次演讲中说。他当时是负责政治军事事务的助理国务卿。“我们与埃及、约旦、黎巴嫩和许多海湾国家的关系，使美国可以在该地区有力地倡导和平与稳定。”
There is an unquestionably sectarian character to the current conflicts in the Middle East, nowhere more so than in the Saudi-led air campaign in Yemen. The Saudis have assembled a group of Sunni nations to attack Houthi militia fighters who have taken over Yemen’s capital, Sana, and ousted a government backed by Saudi Arabia and the United States. Saudi officials have said that the Houthis, a Shiite group, are being covertly backed by Iran. Other nations that have joined the coalition against the Houthis, like Morocco, have characterized their participation in blunt sectarian terms.
中东目前的冲突无疑有教派冲突的成分，尤其是沙特在也门领导的空袭行动。沙特召集了一批逊尼派国家，袭击了胡塞武装分子。后者占领了也门首都萨那，并推翻了由沙特阿拉伯和美国支持的也门政府。沙特官员表示，什叶派的胡塞正在获得伊朗的暗中支持。加入反胡塞联盟的其他国家，比如摩洛哥，则是完全出于教派冲突方面的原因。
“It’s a question of protecting the Sunnis,” Mbarka Bouaida, Morocco’s deputy foreign minister, said in an interview.
“这是个保护逊尼派的问题，”摩洛哥副外交部长穆巴卡·布埃达(Mbarka Bouaida)在接受采访时说。
But Sunni nations have also shown a new determination to use military force against radical Sunni groups like the Islamic State. A number of Arab countries are using an air base in Jordan to launch attacks against Islamic State fighters in Syria. Separately, the Emirates and Egypt have carried out airstrikes in Libya against Sunni militias there.
但逊尼派国家也表现出了新决心，要用军事力量反抗伊斯兰国这样的激进逊尼派组织。大量阿拉伯国家正在利用约旦的一处空军基地，对叙利亚境内的伊斯兰国武装分子发起攻击。另外，阿联酋和埃及已在利比亚境内对逊尼派民兵组织展开了空袭。