QINGDAO, China — Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel got a long-awaited look at China’s only aircraft carrier on Monday, taking a two-hour tour of the vessel at a naval base near this port city, in the first such visit by a foreign defense official, Pentagon officials said.
中国青岛——经过长时间的等待，美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)周一看到了中国唯一的一艘航空母舰。五角大楼的官员表示，在这座港口城市附近的一座海军基地，哈格尔登舰参观了两小时。这是外国防务官员首次进行此类参观。
Accompanied by a handful of aides, Mr. Hagel toured the medical facilities, living quarters and flight control station of the Liaoning aircraft carrier in Qingdao, and took a walking tour of the flight deck to see launch stations and other apparatus devoted to getting China’s fighter jets into the air.
在五六名随行人员的陪同下，哈格尔参观了停泊在青岛的航母“辽宁号”的医疗设施、生活区，以及飞行控制舱室。他还在飞行甲板上行走，查看了起飞装置等用于军机升空的设备。
Mr. Hagel and other Obama administration officials have repeatedly called on the Chinese government to demonstrate more transparency, particularly in its military, whose budget has increased significantly even as the United States cuts back on military spending.
包括哈格尔在内的奥巴马政府的多名官员曾反复呼吁中国政府展示更高的透明度，尤其是在军事领域。在美国削减军事开支的同时，中国在这方面的预算则显著增长。
After Qingdao, Mr. Hagel flew to Beijing, where he was scheduled to hold talks on Tuesday with the Chinese defense minister and deliver a speech at China’s National Defense University.
结束对青岛的访问后，哈格尔乘机前往北京。按照行程安排，他将在周二与中国国防部长会晤，并将在国防大学发表演讲。
Military officials accompanying Mr. Hagel said the visit to the ship was a big step in the fledgling military relationship between the United States and China, two global powers that have been increasingly at loggerheads over what many American officials view as Beijing’s aggressive posture toward Japan and other neighbors.
陪同哈格尔的美国军方官员表示，登舰参观是美中之间发展中的军事关系迈出的一大步。在许多美方官员看来，北京对日本等邻国做出了激进姿态。在这方面，美中两个全球性大国的分歧日趋严重。
But Mr. Hagel’s aides said that even if they received only a limited look at China’s maritime capability, they viewed the visit as one bright light in what could be an otherwise contentious trip.
不过，哈格尔的随行人员表示，尽管仅得以管窥中国的海上实力，但他们仍认为，本次参观是此行中的亮点。整体而言，这次访问的气氛可能相当紧张。
“It’s always good to get aboard a ship,” Rear Adm. John F. Kirby, the Pentagon press spokesman, told reporters after the tour. “It feels the same, it smells the same.”
“登舰总是一件好事，”参观过后，五角大楼新闻发言人约翰·F·柯比少将(John F. Kirby)告诉记者。“感觉一样，气味也一样。”
Defense officials said that the Chinese carrier is significantly less advanced than its American counterparts, but they added that it can carry out the main function of an aircraft carrier: receiving and launching fighter planes.
美国防务官员称，与本国的航母相比，中国的这艘航母大为落后。不过，他们表示，“辽宁号”能够实现航母的主要功能，即起降战斗机。