They were once major symbols of civic pride and influence, often situated in the heart of the city, and nearly equal in stature to nearby city halls, courthouses and other major public buildings.
它们曾经是公民自豪感与影响力的主要象征，而且通常占据着城市的心脏地带，其重要性几乎能与附近的市政厅、法院等主要公共建筑齐平。
But increasingly, many of the buildings that served as newspaper headquarters in cities around the country are being put on the market, as a struggling industry searches desperately for ways to increase revenue.
然而一栋接一栋地，在全国各处，这些建筑越来越多地被投放到市场当中，其中很多还是报社总部。因为生存日艰的报业正在不顾一切地寻求着增收的办法。
In recent months, The Washington Post put its downtown headquarters and three warehouse buildings in Alexandria, Va., up for sale, and the Tribune Company has hired a veteran real estate executive, who is expected to help that company sell some of its holdings.
近几个月来，《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)已开始出售它那地处闹市区的总部大楼，以及位于弗吉尼亚州亚历山德里亚(Alexandria)的三座仓库；论坛报业公司(Tribune Company)聘请了一名资深房企高管，来协助公司出售旗下的部分房产。
As a reflection of the print industry’s sorry state, the physical plant in which the paper is produced is likely to have a far greater value than the paper itself, especially when situated in a gentrifying neighborhood.
报业境况惨淡的表现之一在于，它们的实体办公大楼很可能比报社本身的价值还要高出很多。而如果大楼恰好位于中产阶级化的高雅社区，那么其身价更是能够翻番。
This summer, for example, The New York Times Company agreed to sell The Boston Globe to John W. Henry, the owner of the Boston Red Sox, for $70 million. CoStar, a real estate research company in Washington, estimated that The Globe’s longtime headquarters on Morrissey Boulevard has a value of $63.8 million.
举个例子，今年夏天，纽约时报公司(New York Times Company)与波士顿红袜队(Boston Red Sox)的老板约翰·W·亨利(John W. Henry)达成协议，以7000万美元（约合人民币4.3亿元）的价格将《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)卖给对方。华盛顿的房地产研究公司CoStar估计，《波士顿环球报》多年来在莫里西大道(Morrissey Boulevard)的总部大楼就价值6380万美元（约合人民币3.9亿元）。
The August sale of The Washington Post for $250 million to Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, included more than 700,000 square feet of printing plants and warehouses and more than 60 acres of developable land, according to CoStar. But it does not include the headquarters building on 15th Street NW that the newspaper has occupied for more than six decades.
根据CoStar的数据资料，《华盛顿邮报》今年8月被以2.5亿美元（约合15.2亿元人民币）的价格卖给了亚马逊(Amazon)创始人杰夫·贝索斯(Jeff Bezos)。这笔收购交易，包括超过700000平方英尺（约合65032平方米）的印刷厂和仓库，以及超过60英亩（约合24.28公顷）的发展用地。不过，《华盛顿邮报》那栋超过60年历史、位于15街西北角(15th Street NW)的总部大楼，并不在交易范围内。
Brokers said a buyer would probably tear down the building. “It’s a good site, not a great site,” said William M. Collins, a Washington-based principal of Cassidy Turley, a commercial brokerage.
房地产经纪人认为，一旦有了买家，他或许会把这栋楼拆掉。“这是个好地段，但还称不上是黄金地段。”威廉·M·柯林斯(William M. Collins)说。柯林斯是商业地产公司Cassidy Turley驻华盛顿地区的业务负责人，也是一名商业地产经纪人。
Mr. Collins said the property would be far more desirable to a buyer if it included a corner lot that is also owned by The Post. But Carr Properties, a Washington company, has a long-term ground lease for the 140,400-square-foot building there, at 1100 15th Street. Neither JM Zell Partners, a Washington real estate firm that is advising The Post, nor Carr responded to telephone messages. Les J. Cranmer, a senior managing director in Philadelphia for Studley, another of The Post’s brokers, said the firm would have no comment.
柯林斯表示，假如转角地段也属于《华盛顿邮报》，那么这处房产就会变得抢手很多。但是在转角处——也就是15街上的1100号，有一栋占地面积140400平方英尺（约合13044平方米）的建筑。华盛顿房地产公司Carr Properties在这里拥有长期土地租约。对于此情况，无论是为《华盛顿邮报》担任顾问的华盛顿房地产公司JM Zell Partners，还是Carr公司，都没有对记者的电话留言给予答复。《华盛顿邮报》还有另一家经纪公司，斯达德利(Studley)。其费城办事处的高级董事总经理雷斯·J·克兰默(Les J.Cranmer)表示，公司对此事不予置评。
Transactions that have already occurred involve papers both large and small — from The Times Argus in Barre, Vt., (circ. 8,300) which sold its headquarters to the city’s mayor, to The Seattle Times (circ. 237,000 on weekdays), whose landmark headquarters building is now owned by Omni, a Vancouver development company. The company sold another building in the same neighborhood to Simms Commercial Development of Beverly Hills and became the building’s principal tenant.
已经变卖房产的报社有大有小，比如佛蒙特州巴里(Barre)的小报社The Times Argus（发行量为8300份）将总部大楼卖给了市长；大报社《西雅图时报》(The Seattle Times)（工作日发行量为237000份）将其地标性的总部大楼卖给了一家温哥华的，开发公司Omni；还在同一社区，报社将另一座大楼卖给了比佛利山(Beverly Hills)的房地产公司Simms Commercial Development，转而成为了这座大楼的主要租户。
In January, the owners of The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News said they would move the newspapers into more modern office space and sell their building on Lafayette Boulevard, which was designed by Albert Kahn and completed in 1917. And the old Free Press building, which reporters moved out of in 1998, was just sold to a Chinese firm for more than $4 million at auction.
今年1月，《底特律自由报》(The Detroit Free Press)和《底特律新闻报》(The Detroit News)的所有者表示，他们会将报社迁到更现代化的办公场地，并卖掉位于拉斐特大道(Lafayette Boulevard)的老自由报大楼。这栋建筑由阿尔伯特·卡恩(Albert Kahn)设计，1917年竣工；在1998年，报社记者全部搬离。近日，该大楼在拍卖会上以超过400万美元（约合人民币2436万元）的价格，卖给了一家中国公司。
The San Jose Mercury News recently agreed to sell its 36-acre campus along Interstate 880 for $30.5 million to Super Micro Computer, which will eventually convert the site to manufacturing space.
《圣何塞信使报》(The San Jose Mercury News)近日与超微电脑公司(Super Micro Computer)达成协议，将880号洲际公路边36英亩（约合14.57公顷）的园区，以3050万美元（约合人民币1.9亿元）的价格卖给对方。超微电脑公司则会将该园区改建成制造工厂。
In July, the Tribune Company, which emerged from years of bankruptcy late last year, is planning to spin off its eight daily newspapers, including The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune, into a separate company, but it has retained its seven million square feet of real estate assets, as well as its broadcasting properties. The company named Murray McQueen, a former managing director of real estate at Cerberus Capital Management, a private equity fund in New York City, to figure out how to maximize the value of its real estate portfolio.
论坛报业公司去年末刚刚从多年来的破产状态中重振旗鼓，今年7月开始筹备将旗下的八家日报社剥离至另一家公司名下，其中包括《洛杉矶时报》(The Los Angeles Times)、《芝加哥论坛报》(The Chicago Tribune)。不过，论坛报业公司保留了700万平方英尺（约合65公顷）的房地产资产，以及旗下广播公司的房产。为了将房地产投资组合的收益最大化，论坛公司聘请了穆雷·麦奎因(Murray McQueen)予以协助。麦奎因曾在纽约市私募股权投资基金博龙资产管理(Cerberus Capital Management)担任房地产业务的董事总经理。
In addition to assets like the 700,000-square-foot Los Angeles Times building, the company has a trove of other properties, including a shuttered printing plant on 20 valuable acres along the San Diego Freeway, just south of South Coast Plaza, a prominent shopping center in Orange County, said H. Carl Muhlstein, a managing director in Los Angeles for the real estate services company Jones Lang LaSalle.
仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)的洛杉矶办事处担任董事总经理H·卡尔·穆尔施泰因(H. Carl Muhlstein) 说，除了占地70万平方英尺（约合6.5公顷）的《洛杉矶时报》大楼等报业大厦外，论坛报业公司还拥有大量房产，包括一家倒闭的印刷厂。该印刷厂位于圣迭戈高速公路(San Diego Freeway)边的黄金地段，占地20英亩（约合8公顷），其北面就是著名的商业中心“南岸广场”(South Coast Plaza)。
The Los Angeles Times came close to moving to a downtown office building two decades ago but got cold feet, Mr. Muhlstein said. “They just couldn’t let go of the old environment and move into a traditional office building,” he said.
穆尔施泰因说，20年前，就在《洛杉矶时报》将要搬进市中心的写字楼之时，他们还是退缩了。“他们舍不得离开老环境，搬进一处传统意义上的写字楼里。”他表示。
Those days are long gone. Today, newspapers are seeking space that is more efficient and suitable for modern technology and that will shrink their footprint. Significant downsizing has left many papers with acres of unused space aside from the cavernous areas that printing presses used to occupy. After its 1924 gold-domed building was sold to a local developer, Bart Blatstein, in 2011, The Philadelphia Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily News leased 125,000 square feet, about one-fourth of what it previously occupied, in the renovated former Strawbridge & Clothier store on Eighth and Market Streets.
那段日子早已一去不复返。如今，各家报社在选址时最关心的问题是，新的办公场所是否更加高效、更适于现代科技，以及能否集约他们的使用面积。由于大幅裁员，大片的土地被闲置下来，加上报社入驻的大楼原本就比较空旷，如今更显得凄清。2011年，《费城问询报》(The Philadelphia Inquirer)和《费城每日新闻报》(Philadelphia Daily News)将其建于1924年的金色圆顶报业大厦卖给了当地开发商巴特·布拉特施泰恩(Bart Blatstein)。此后，两家报社在第八街近市场街(Market Street)路段租下一处翻新的场地，该场地原属于Strawbridge & Clothier百货商店，占地125000平方英尺（约合1.16平方米），只有报社原址面积的大约四分之一。
The sounds of slot machines may one day emanate from the former Miami Herald and Philadelphia Inquirer buildings. The Herald’s choice location along Biscayne Bay fetched an unusually high price — $236 million — from Genting, a Malaysian company that hopes eventually to persuade local officials to allow it to build a casino as part of a luxury resort and condominium development.
或许终有一天，这些原属《迈阿密先驱报》(Miami Herald)或《费城问询报》的大楼里，将会传出老虎机的声音。由于地处比斯坎湾(Biscayne Bay)的优越地段，《迈阿密先驱报》的大楼卖出了极高的价格——2.36亿美元（约合人民币14.4亿元），买家是来自马来西亚的云顶集团(Genting)，他们打算将这栋大楼建成赌场，作为豪华度假村和共管公寓开发项目的一部分。该公司希望能够尽力说服当地政府官员，让他们为赌场项目最终开绿灯。
Mr. Blatstein paid a mere $22 million for the Philadelphia headquarters building, which is a little north of Center City. Now he hopes to obtain a gambling license from the state. “I didn’t buy the building with the intention of doing that,” he said, “but it lays out perfectly for a casino.”
而布拉特施泰恩只花了2200万美元（约合人民币1.3亿元）就从《费城问询报》和《费城每日新闻报》那里买下了它们的总部大厦，该大厦坐落在市中心稍偏北的位置。如今，他希望能从州政府那里获得经营赌场的许可证。“我买下这栋楼的本意并不在此，”他说，“但它的布局确实很适合做赌场。”
As their staffs began to shrink, some companies leased space to other tenants rather than pick up stakes. Last year, a call center company, VXI Global Solutions, took two floors in the Los Angeles Times building. Yahoo has leased three floors in the San Francisco Chronicle building. And then there are newspapers like The Poughkeepsie Journal in New York that have become tenants in buildings they once owned.
随着员工人数开始缩减，有些报社将空间出租给其它租户，而不是一走了之。去年，呼叫中心公司VXI Global Solutions在《洛杉矶时报》的大楼里租下两个楼层。雅虎(Yahoo)也已在《旧金山纪事报》(San Francisco Chronicle)的大楼里租下三个楼层。纽约的《波基普西日报》(Poughkeepsie Journal)等报社，则从其大厦的所有者转变成了租户。
In 2009, The New York Times raised $225 million to pay off debt by selling 750,000 square feet of its new headquarters building to W. P. Carey, a New York company that specializes in so-called sale-leasebacks. The Times has said it plans to exercise its option to buy the space back in 2019 for $250 million, well below the probable market value. Jason Fox, a managing director at W. P. Carey who worked on the deal, said that it was not unusual for companies with buyback options to arrange another sale-leaseback.
2009年，《纽约时报》筹集了2.25亿美元（约合人民币13.7亿元）用于偿付债务。其筹资方法是，将占地面积750000平方英尺（约合6.97公顷）的新总部大楼出售给一家纽约公司W. P. Carey，后者专门从事所谓的“售后回租”(sale-leasebacks)业务。《纽约时报》表示，报社将在2019年行使自己的选择权，支付2.5亿美元（约合人民币15.2亿元）将总部大楼买回——这一价格远低于届时可能的市场价值。W. P. Carey公司董事总经理杰森·福克斯(Jason Fox)是这笔交易的负责人。他说，有些享有回购选择权(buyback options)的公司会再次进行售后回租，这种现象并不罕见。
The Times’s broker, Mary Ann Tighe, the regional chief executive of CBRE, would not discuss the newspaper’s plans.
《纽约时报》的房产经纪人、世邦魏理仕(CBRE)大纽约区的首席执行官玛丽·安·泰伊(Mary Ann Tighe)对报社的回购计划不予置评。
Moving out of a marquee building into generic space may help the bottom line, but it also makes a statement, said Rick Edmonds, the media business analyst at the Poynter Institute, which specializes in journalism education. “It’s a serious issue when you’re dealing with advertisers,” he said. “Advertisers like to be with winners.”
传媒业分析师里克·埃德蒙兹(Rick Edmonds)在致力于新闻专业教育的波音特学院(Poynter Institute)工作，他说，报社搬离历史悠久的特色建筑、迁入毫无特色的普通写字楼，这或许有助于账面盈亏，但与此同时此行动也释放出一个信号。“在与广告商们打交道时，这就成为一个严峻的问题，”他说，“他们青睐的是成功人士。”