ISTANBUL — The United States and Turkey have reached an agreement for manned and unmanned American warplanes to carry out aerial attacks on the Islamic State from two Turkish air bases, Obama administration officials said Thursday.
伊斯坦布尔——奥巴马政府的官员本周四表示，美国和土耳其达成了一项协议，令美国的载人和无人战机现在可以从土耳其的两座空军基地起飞，对伊斯兰国（Islamic State，也称为ISIS或ISIL）开展空袭。
The agreement on the bases, Incirlik and Diyarbakir, was described by one senior administration official as a “game changer” that would significantly strengthen the American military’s ability to strike at ISIS targets in Syria and carry out extended aerial surveillance. It came after months of negotiations that culminated on Wednesday with a phone call between President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, and President Obama, another administration official said.
这两座基地分别是因吉尔利克(Incirlik)和迪亚巴克尔(Diyarbakir)。奥巴马政府的一名高级官员称，该协议将“改变局势”，可以显著强化美军打击叙利亚境内的ISIS目标及广泛开展空中侦察的能力。另一名政府官员称，为了达成协议，两国经过了数月的谈判，土耳其总统雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep TayyipErdogan)与奥巴马总统最终还在本周三通了电话。
The development came as Turkish forces were reported to have engaged in the first direct combat with Islamic State forces on the Syrian side of the border.
据报道，土耳其军队与叙利亚一侧的ISIS部队发生了首次正面交火。该协议就是在这样的形势下达成的。
Both developments vaulted Turkey squarely into the broader battle with the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. It was a step the Turkish authorities had been reluctant to take until now in their effort to protect Turkey’s border with Syria, where ISIS is firmly ensconced.
这两件事共同推动了土耳其直接与ISIS开展更加广泛的战斗。此前土耳其当局一直不愿这么做，现在为了保护与叙利亚接壤的边境，它需要采取行动，因为ISIS牢牢盘踞在对面。
Turkey had allowed unmanned flights from Incirlik but had thus far balked at allowing manned airstrikes.
土耳其已经允许美国的无人机从因吉尔利克基地起飞，但之前一直拒绝载人机从该地开展空袭。
Officials at both the State Department and the Pentagon said they were hesitant to talk about the pact until the Turkish government acknowledged the agreement publicly. Turkish officials declined to comment on Thursday night.
美国国务院和五角大楼的官员均表示，在土耳其政府公开承认这个协议之前，他们不愿谈论此事。本周四晚上，土耳其官员拒绝置评。
The United States and Turkey “have decided to further deepen our cooperation in the fight against ISIL,” the State Department’s spokesman, John Kirby, said in an emailed statement. He said that “due to operational security I don’t have further details to share at this time."
美国和土耳其“决定进一步深化在打击ISIS方面的合作，”国务院发言人约翰·柯比(John Kirby)在电子邮件发送的声明中称。他表示，“出于操作安全方面的考量，目前我不能透露更多细节。”
Mr. Kirby added that the United States would work with Turkey and other European partners to curb the flow of foreign fighters to Syria, recognizing that “the foreign fighter problem is not Turkey’s alone.”
柯比还称，美国将与土耳其和其他欧洲伙伴一起，遏制外国武装分子流向叙利亚，因为“外国武装分子的问题不仅仅事关土耳其一方”。
The clash between Turkey’s armed forces and ISIS came after gunmen identified by Turkish news media as ISIS fighters opened fire on a Turkish border outpost in the Kilis region, killing one Turkish soldier and wounding five.
此前，一些被土耳其新闻媒体指认为ISIS武装分子的持械歹徒对该国边境基利斯省的哨所开火，导致一名土耳其士兵丧生，五人受伤。此事引发了土耳其武装部队和ISIS之间的冲突。
Turkey’s semiofficial Anadolu news agency and other agencies said the military scrambled fighter jets and hit suspected ISIS targets on the Syrian side of the border with tanks and artillery. At least one ISIS militant was killed and a number of ISIS vehicles were destroyed, the accounts said.
土耳其半官方通讯社阿纳多卢(Anadolu)等媒体报道，军方紧急调集战机，并用坦克和大炮攻击了叙利亚一侧的疑似ISIS目标。报道称，至少击毙了一名ISIS武装分子，还摧毁了ISIS的不少车辆。
The clash came two days after a suicide bomber with suspected ties to ISIS struck a cultural center in the Turkish border town of Suruc, killing 32 people and wounding more than 100. That bombing was one of the worst in Turkey in many years.
此次冲突发生的两天前，一名自杀式炸弹袭击者在土耳其边境城镇苏鲁奇的一个文化中心炸死32人，炸伤百余人，制造了土耳其多年来最严重的爆炸事件之一。土耳其怀疑，此人与ISIS有关。
Obama administration officials said that the United States had agreed to work with European allies, including Germany, France and Britain, to do more to control their end of the flow of foreign fighters into Turkey.
奥巴马政府的官员表示，美国同意与包括德、法、英在内的欧洲盟国合作，采取进一步行动来阻止外国武装分子进入土耳其。
It was unclear what other concessions might have been made by the United States to get the deal, but a NATO official said on Thursday that “the Turks always drive a hard bargain.”
目前还不清楚美国为这笔交易提供了哪些其他优惠条件，但一名北约官员周四表示，“土耳其人讨价还价一向很厉害。”
The breakthrough came after recent talks in Turkey between Gen. John R. Allen, a retired Marine who is President Obama’s special envoy for the fight against ISIS, and Turkish counterparts. General Allen’s trip was preceded by a telephone call from Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to Mr. Erdogan, administration officials said.
这个突破，是奥巴马总统的反ISIS斗争特使、退役的海军陆战队上将约翰·R·艾伦(John R. Allen)近期与土耳其同行在该国会谈之后取得的。政府官员表示，在艾伦上将前往土耳其之前，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)与埃尔多安通过电话。
A senior Defense Department official said recent attacks by ISIS on Turkish targets had played an important role in Turkey’s decision to deepen its role in the fight against the militant organization.
一名国防部高级官员称，ISIS最近对土耳其境内目标的攻击起到了重大作用，促使土耳其下定决心，更深入地参与打击该激进组织的行动。
“Attacks in Turkey are part of the catalyst for them to think about how they get in the game,” the official said, speaking on grounds of anonymity.
这名官员表示， “土耳其发生的几次袭击事件在一定程度上促使他们考虑如何参与其中。”此人要求不具名。
For the Pentagon, the Turkish decision is huge because the two air bases are so much closer to the Syrian border than Iraq, Kuwait, Jordan and the Persian Gulf, where strikes had been launched. The agreement will significantly increase the amount of time that American spy planes can hover over Syria. In addition, it will speed up the response time for manned flights acting on intelligence.
对于五角大楼来说，土耳其的此次决定意义重大，因为这两座空军基地比目前的攻击发起地伊拉克、科威特、约旦和波斯湾距离叙利亚边境要近得多。该协议将极大地增加美国侦察机可以在叙利亚上空盘旋的时间。除此之外，它还将缩短根据情报进行载人飞行的反应时间。
But even as they were lauding the agreement, American military officials were cautious because they felt that they had been burned by Turkey before.
不过，即便在赞许这份协议，美国军方官员仍然十分谨慎，因为他们觉得以前曾被土耳其耍弄。
In 2003, Defense Department officials believed they had an agreement with the Turks to launch the Army’s 4th Infantry Division into northern Iraq from Turkey as part of the invasion of Iraq. But the Turkish Parliament refused to grant permission for the operation and the division’s equipment remained offshore on ships.
2003年，国防部官员认为己方已与土耳其达成协议，允许美国陆军第四步兵师从土耳其进入伊拉克北部，作为出兵伊拉克的计划的一部分。然而，土耳其议会拒绝准予行动，导致这支部队的设备一直留在停泊于近海的舰艇上。
Turkey has long opposed the government of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and blames it for having created the conditions that led to the rise of the extremists within Syria and Iraq.
土耳其一直反对叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)领导的政府，并指责该政府为极端组织在叙利亚和伊拉克境内的崛起创造了条件。
While the United States shares Turkey’s antipathy for Mr. Assad, the Turks had previously insisted on a no-fly zone in northern Syria, near the border with Turkey, in exchange for allowing the United States to use its air bases.
虽然美国与土耳其一样厌恶阿萨德，但土耳其之前坚持要求在叙利亚北部靠近土耳其边境的地方设立禁飞区，以此作为允许美国使用其空军基地的交换条件。
A no-fly zone would create a safe area to arm and train moderate rebels fighting Mr. Assad and allow an opposition government to take root. The United States has largely opposed this — although some within the government, especially at the State Department, believe the idea should be given serious consideration — because it would broaden Mr. Obama’s stated objective of focusing only on the destruction of the Islamic State.
禁飞区会创建一个安全区域，目的是武装和训练对抗阿萨德的温和反对派，并使得反对派政府可以扎根。美国基本上反对这个提议——但政府内部，特别是国务院的一些人士认为应该慎重考虑这个想法——因为这会扩大奥巴马所说的只致力于毁灭伊斯兰国的目标。
Asked on Thursday at the Aspen Security Forum in Colorado whether a no-fly zone was part of the deal with Turkey, General Allen said, “No. It was not part of the discussion.” General Allen referred all other questions about the agreement to officials in Washington.
周四在科罗拉多的阿斯彭安全论坛(Aspen Security Forum)上被问及美国与土耳其达成的协议是否涉及禁飞区时，艾伦上将表示，“没有。讨论并未涉及这个问题。”至于有关该协议的其他问题，他一概表示应由华盛顿的官员回答。
Other administration officials said the burgeoning threat to Turkey from ISIS as well as Mr. Assad’s shrinking control over territory in Syria had prompted the Turks to drop the condition — at least for now.
奥巴马政府的其他一些官员表示，ISIS对土耳其的威胁不断加深，加上阿萨德对叙利亚领土的控制持续减弱，促使土耳其人放弃了设立禁飞区的条件——至少目前是这样。
“The agreement seems a watershed moment in terms of airstrikes,” said Andrew J. Tabler, an expert on Arab politics at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)的阿拉伯政治问题专家安德鲁·J·泰布勒(Andrew J. Tabler)表示，“这项协议看来是空袭行动的一个转折点。”
But for the Turkish government, Mr. Tabler said, “ISIS is just one manifestation of state collapse in Syria. Solving it is getting Assad out of Damascus.”
然而，对于土耳其政府来说，泰布勒称，“ISIS的崛起不过是叙利亚政权崩溃的一个表现。把阿萨德赶出大马士革才是解决之道。”