NAPA, Calif. — Gov. Jerry Brown declared a state of emergency for this region north of San Francisco on Sunday, as emergency workers scrambled to put out fires and treat injuries after a strong earthquake, measured at magnitude 6.0, struck early this morning.
加州纳帕——在周日凌晨发生了一场测定为6.0级的强烈地震后，随着紧急救援人员奋力灭火并救治伤员，加州州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)周日宣布，位于旧金山北部的这片地区进入紧急状态。
Even as the shaking continued — several smaller aftershocks were reported — emergency crews were combing through a number of buildings in downtown Napa, making sure that no one had been trapped inside. Several fires were reported in the area, and a number of homes and buildings, including some in downtown, had structural damage.
尽管地震仍在继续——据报道，出现了多次较小的余震——紧急救援人员已经开始排查纳帕市中心的大量建筑，确保没人被困在里面。据报道，该地区出现了几场火灾，大量房屋和建筑的结构受到破坏，其中包括市中心的部分建筑。
At least 90 people had been treated at the emergency room of Queen of the Valley Medical Center in Napa, according to Vanessa DeGier, a spokeswoman for the hospital. Most injuries were minor cuts or abrasions caused by falling debris. But three patients remained in critical condition, including a child who had been crushed by a falling fireplace.
纳帕皇后谷医疗中心(Queen of the Valley Medical Center)女发言人瓦妮莎·德吉尔(Vanessa DeGier)表示，至少有90人在该中心的急诊室接受治疗。大部分伤都是掉落的碎片造成的轻微划伤和擦伤。但还是有三名病人伤势严重，其中包括一名被掉下来的壁炉砸到的儿童。
“Right now it’s really about being able to get the fires out, making sure that anyone who could potentially be trapped in a building gets rescued and evacuated,” said Mark S. Ghilarducci, the secretary of the California Emergency Management Agency. “There’s going to be a number of aftershocks afterwards, so people need to be prepared for that.”
“目前最重要的是要扑灭大火，确保营救和疏散任何可能被困在建筑内的人，”加州紧急事务管理署(California Emergency Management Agency)的秘书马克·S·吉拉尔杜奇(Mark S. Ghilarducci)说。“以后会有大量余震，所以人们必须为此做好准备。”
The temblor struck about six miles south of Napa around 3:20 a.m., according to the United States Geological Survey. It was the most powerful earthquake to hit the Bay Area since the Loma Prieta earthquake of 1989, which collapsed a section of the Bay Bridge. The shaking was felt over an area that encompassed hundreds of miles.
美国地质调查局(United States Geological Survey)表示，凌晨3点20分左右，纳帕以南约6英里（约合10公里）的地方发生地震 。这是自1989年导致海湾大桥(Bay Bridge)部分垮塌的洛马普列塔地震以来，旧金山湾区发生的最强地震。方圆数百英里内都有震感。
The earthquake threw much of the Napa Valley — normally an edenic retreat famed for its wine and fine dining — into chaos of falling glass and collapsing bricks. Dozens of water and gas mains were ruptured, and at least six fires broke out, including one in a mobile home park that destroyed four homes and damaged two others. Thousands remained without power.
纳帕谷在平常是一个伊甸园般的休养胜地，以其葡萄酒和精美饮食而著称，但地震让这里的很多地方陷入了一片混乱，到处是掉落的玻璃和垮塌的砖头。几十处水气总管道破裂，至少发生了六起火灾，其中一起发生在一处活动房屋公园。那起大火烧毁了四处房屋，两处房屋受损。数千户人家依然用不上电。
Two residents of the mobile home park, Lynda and Bob Castell-Blanch, both 60, said they were jarred awake by a loud thump and roll.
活动房屋公园的居民、皆为60岁的琳达·卡斯泰尔-布兰奇(Lynda Castell-Blanch)和鲍勃·卡斯泰尔-布兰奇(Bob Castell-Blanch)说，他们是被砰的一声巨响震醒的。
“It was violent,” Mr. Castell-Blanch said. “Things were flying all over the place. There was a woman screaming from one of the houses, so loud it was total mayhem.”
“声音很大，”鲍勃说。“很多东西在到处乱飞。其中一所房子里有一个女的在尖叫，声音大得吓死人。”
The couple said they had enough time to gather their cats and Mr. Castell-Blanch’s vintage guitars before evacuating. “That was all we had time for,” he said, as they tried to buy water at a store near the mobile home park.
这对夫妇说，他们赶在撤离前把猫以及鲍勃的古董吉他收好带走。“我们只有时间做这些，”他说。接受采访时，夫妇俩正打算在活动房屋公园附近的一家商店里买水。
The shelves at the store, the Ranch Market, had been emptied into the aisles. The smell of wine wafted throughout.
在这家名为兰奇市场(Ranch Market)的商店里，货架倒在了过道里。葡萄酒的味道四处飘散。
Arik Housley, the store’s owner, estimated at least $100,000 in damage at the two markets he owns in the area. He said that, like many people, he did not carry earthquake insurance because the premium was high.
商店老板阿里克·豪斯利(Arik Housley)估计，他在该地区的两家商店遭受的损失至少为10万美元（约合615万元人民币）。他说自己和很多人一样，没有投地震险，因为保险费很高。
Franz Oehler, 44, who lives west of downtown Napa, said: “It was about 10 seconds of total chaos. My girlfriend and I were thrown up in the air, and the window exploded.”
44岁的弗朗茨·厄勒(Franz Oehler)住在纳帕中心以西，他说：“整个混乱过程持续了大约10秒。我和女朋友被抛到空中，窗户爆裂。”
His house, he said, suffered cracks and was in danger of sliding down the hill.
他说，他的房子出现了裂缝，现在有滑下山坡的危险。
More than 25,000 people remained without power Sunday, though many more had had electricity restored.
周日，共有2.5万多人仍处于断电状态，不过有更多的人已恢复用电。
Janet Upton said the chimneys of several homes in her Napa neighborhood were knocked off, while the front of another home had sheared off. The entire area smelled strongly of gas, she said. Sirens continued unabated for two hours after the earthquake, she added, but it had since quieted down.
珍妮特·厄普顿(Janet Upton)说，在她位于纳帕的家附近，有几座房子的烟囱已被折断，还有一座房屋的前部则发生坍塌。她说，整个区域弥漫着浓烈的燃气味。她还说，地震发生后，警报器一直响了两个小时，然后便不响了。
“We helped all neighbors turn their gas off,” said Ms. Upton, a spokeswoman for the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection. Her husband is Scott Upton, the Napa County fire chief. “I’m just grateful my family and neighbors are all O.K.” Buildings across the city were damaged, including the county courthouse and several other historic brick buildings downtown. Though many had been retrofitted to withstand earthquakes in recent years, they did not hold, and large sections of brick and concrete collapsed onto the sidewalks.
“我们帮所有邻居关掉了燃气，”加州林业及消防部(Department of Forestry and Fire Protection)女发言人厄普顿说。她的丈夫斯科特·厄普顿(Scott Upton)是纳帕县消防部门长官。“我的家人和邻居都没事，我很感激。”这里的建筑物都遭到了破坏，县政府和城中心其他几座历史悠久的砖头建筑也在其中。虽然近年来为了防御地震，许多建筑物已被翻新，但它们还是未能抵抗住此次地震，有大块的砖和水泥掉到了人行道上。
“Certainly, a few of the retrofits didn’t fare that well,” a Napa County supervisor, Mark Luce, said. He added that many more buildings, including the county administrative building, had interior damage — broken sprinkler lines and fallen ceilings — which would be costly to repair. “The newer buildings that met current standards fared better, but there’s still a lot of mess to clean up inside.”
“当然，有些翻新工作是没有起到那么好的作用，”纳帕县长官马克·卢斯(Mark Luce)说。他还表示，还有更多的建筑物是内部受损——其中包括县政府大楼——出现水管断裂、屋顶坍塌，维修费用会十分高昂。“符合现行标准的较新的建筑物受损较轻，但是内部也有许多需要清理的地方。”
Though most of the downtown buildings that had the worst damage were empty when the temblor hit early in the morning, emergency crews were searching for any janitorial or security workers who may have been on site, and roping off the buildings to keep the public away from any more falling concrete.
当地震于凌晨发生时，市中心大部分受损最严重的建筑里都没人，但是紧急救援人员还是在对它们进行搜寻，看是否有门卫或安全工作者困在其中。他们还用绳索隔开这些建筑，以防公众靠近，被落下的水泥砸中。
“We’ll look at what happened with these couple buildings where we saw these failures, and see if there’s anything we missed,” Mr. Luce said. “We’ve had a live test of what a 6.0 earthquake will do.”
“我们要看看这些发生坍塌的建筑物出了什么问题，看看我们是不是忽略了什么，”卢斯说。“我们对6级地震的结果做过实时测试。”
While Sunday’s earthquake was the largest to hit the region since 1989, seismologists said it paled in comparison to Loma Prieta, which was 6.9 in magnitude, or the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, which was 7.8.
周日的地震是1989年以来，该地区发生的震级最高的地震，但地震学家称，如果与6.9级的洛马普列塔以及1906年旧金山的7.8级地震相比，此次地震还是有些小巫见大巫。