LITCHFIELD, CONN. 
康涅狄格州，利奇菲尔德(LITCHFIELD, CONN.)
WHAT: A 19th-century granite carriage barn with four bedrooms and four bathrooms
房源：一座始建于19世纪的马车房（原为马车棚的房型，现在用途多样——译注），带有四间卧室、四间浴室。
HOW MUCH: $1,700,000
房价：170万美元（约合人民币1044万元）
SIZE: 5,000 square feet
面积：5000平方英尺（约合465平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $340
单位面积房价：每平方英尺340美元（约合每平方米人民币2.3万元）
SETTING: Litchfield is a quiet, wooded town in Connecticut’s northwest hills, which make up the southernmost part of the Berkshires. Known for its rural scenery and 18th- and 19th-century architecture, the area is still partly agricultural and has a small wine industry. This house is on more than 16 acres at the end of a long, winding driveway, a few minutes from the town green, which is lined by some of town’s oldest buildings, including its 18th-century courthouse.
周边环境：利奇菲尔德是康涅狄格州西北部山区一座树木繁茂的静谧小镇，位于伯克郡(Berkshires)的最南端。该地区以乡村美景和18、19世纪的建筑著称，现在依然是半农业区，有小规模酿酒业。这套房子坐落在超过16英亩（约合6.5公顷）的土地上，位于一条蜿蜒曲折的长车道末端，距离小镇绿地只有几分钟路程。绿地边矗立着一些小镇最古老的建筑，包括始建于18世纪的镇法院。
INDOORS: The barn was built in 1880 and renovated starting about 30 years ago, when the owner bought it, derelict. The building has been given a wood-shingle roof and a copper-topped turret. The interior, meanwhile, has an open floor plan accented by the original wood posts and ceilings that are more than 12 feet high.
室内装潢：这套房子始建于1880年，翻新工程大约开始于30年前，当时现任房主买下了这座已被弃置的房屋。现在，屋顶铺设着木瓦，屋角搭建了一座带铜屋顶的尖塔。与此同时，室内有着开阔的平面布局，原有的木柱和超过12英尺（约合3.7米）高的吊顶，更让屋内显得开阔。
Other original features retained include wide-plank pine floors, wood paneling and wainscoting.
其它保留下来的原有装潢特征包括宽板松木地板、木镶板和护墙板。
The renovation was done by the owner, Norman Pfeiffer, a principal of Pfeiffer Partners, a bicoastal firm whose work includes the Los Angeles County Museum of Art’s Anderson Building (now the Art of the Americas building).
装修工作由现任房主、Pfeiffer Partners建筑事务所的负责人诺曼·法伊弗(Norman Pfeiffer)完成。Pfeiffer Partners在东、西海岸两地开展业务，其作品包括洛杉矶县艺术博物馆(Los Angeles County Museum of Art)的安德森馆（Anderson Building，即现在的美洲艺术馆[Art of the Americas]）。
Through the front door is a foyer with plaster walls and a floor made from Kasota limestone, which Mr. Pfeiffer also used at the museum. The living room measures nearly 800 square feet, with French doors that open to a terrace. Both the living and dining rooms have built-in hutches and wide fireplaces. Original windows were retained throughout where possible. The kitchen has a six-burner Wolf range, a refrigerator and double ovens. The kitchen opens to a terrace through French doors. Four bedrooms are upstairs. Each has a pitched ceiling with exposed wood beams, and heavy mahogany doors salvaged from an old estate.
穿过前门，就进入了一间门厅，门厅里是灰泥的墙面，还铺设着卡索塔石灰石的地板。起居室有将近800平方英尺（约合74平方米），设有法式对开门，门外是一座露台。起居室和餐厅里都有嵌入式壁柜和宽大的壁炉。原来的窗户被尽可能保留了下来。厨房里配有一台六头的Wolf牌炉灶、一台电冰箱和一台双内胆烤箱。厨房通过法式对开门与一座露台相连。四间卧室都在楼上。每间卧室都带有裸露木梁的斜顶天花板，和实称的桃花心木门，这些木门是从一处旧宅中挑拣而来。
The old horse stalls between the garage and the house retain their original look and ironwork. Also on the property is a 700-square-foot stone outbuilding that could be used as a studio.
车库和房屋之间的老马厩，保留了原有的外观和铁艺部分。这处房产还包括一座700平方英尺（约合65平方米）的石砌附属建筑，可以用作一间工作室。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The property is mostly wooded, with a yard and field closer to the house.
户外空间：这处房产所在的土地，被树木大片覆盖，房屋附近有一座庭院和一片原野。
TAXES: $19,833 annually
税费：每年19833美元（约合人民币121842元）
CONTACT: Sue Doyle, William Pitt Sotheby’s International Realty, (860) 307-7335; suedoyle.williampitt.com
联系方式：苏·道尔(Sue Doyle)，威廉·皮特苏富比国际地产公司(William Pitt Sotheby’s International Realty)，(860) 307-7335；suedoyle.williampitt.com
•
ALBANY, TEX. 
德克萨斯州，奥尔巴尼(ALBANY, TEX.)
WHAT: A three-building compound with a one-bedroom Queen Anne cottage and two two-bedroom contemporaries
房源：一处包含三栋建筑的综合体，其中有一套安妮女王(Queen Anne)风格的一居室小别墅，以及两套现代风格的两居室住宅
HOW MUCH: $1,649,000
房价：164.9万美元（约合人民币1013万元）
SIZE: 6,719 square feet (total)
面积：（总共）6719平方英尺（约合624平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $245
单位面积房价：每平方英尺245美元（约合每平方米人民币16233元）
SETTING: Albany is a small city in West Texas, about 160 miles from Dallas, and 220 from Austin. This property, a compound arranged around landscaped courtyards, is in the middle of town, across the street from the city’s first public building, a stone jailhouse turned art museum, and around the corner from its second, the county courthouse. The museum holds works by Picasso, Klee and Modigliani, as well as a collection of Chinese terra-cotta tomb figures.
周边环境：奥尔巴尼是德克萨斯州西部的一座小城市，距离达拉斯(Dallas)大约160英里（约合257公里），距离奥斯汀(Austin)大约220英里（约合354公里）。这处房产是一片建筑综合体，围绕几座经过绿化的庭院而建，位于城市中心。其街对面就是小城里最古老的公共建筑——一座由石砌监狱改造而成的艺术博物馆，而转角就是城里所建的第二座公共建筑——县法院。博物馆里展示着毕加索、克利（Klee，瑞士画家——译注）和莫迪利亚尼（Modigliani，意大利画家——译注）的作品，以及中国的兵马俑藏品。
A restaurant in the town’s old general store serves steak grilled over mesquite coal, while a local doughnut shop sells kolache, a fruit pastry of Czech and Slovak origin that arrived in Texas in the mid-19th century. Outside town, the land becomes prairie and ranchland dotted with hackberry trees. Hunting is popular, especially for quail, hog and white-tailed deer.
城区的老杂货店里有一家餐馆，供应用牧豆树木炭烤制的牛排。还有一家当地的甜甜圈店售卖哥拉奇(kolache)，这是一种源自捷克斯洛伐克的水果馅酥皮点心，19世纪中叶传入了德州。城外的土地变成了草原和牧场，一棵棵朴树点缀其间。打猎在当地很流行，尤其是捕鹌鹑、猪和白尾鹿。
INDOORS: The compound’s buildings are arranged around courtyards enclosed by terra-cotta brick walls. The Queen Anne cottage was built in 1907, while the two contemporaries — one with a stucco exterior; the other, corrugated metal — were built in 2010. The architect, Richard Wintersole, received a design award for the project from the Fort Worth chapter of the American Institute of Architects.
室内装潢：这片建筑群围绕着几座庭院而建，庭院外围是红陶砖墙。安妮女王风格的小别墅始建于1907年，而两座现代建筑——一座采用灰泥外墙，另一座采用波纹金属外墙，都修建于2010年。其建筑设计师理查德·温特索尔(Richard Wintersole)因该项目获得了美国建筑师学会(American Institute of Architects)沃思堡(Fort Worth)分会颁发的设计奖。
The cottage, a wood-frame structure with a front porch and a pitched metal roof, was originally a parsonage for a church across the street. It was moved when the contemporaries were built. It retains its original shiplap walls and Southern pine floors, revived after decades of hiding under linoleum.
小别墅是一座木结构建筑，带一个前门廊和一座金属的斜屋顶，原本是街对面一座教堂的牧师住宅。在两座现代建筑动工期间，这套小别墅也移动了位置。它保留了原有的搭叠式(shiplap)外墙和南方松木地板，几十年来，地板上一直盖着油毡。直到地板被翻新时才去掉。
Twin parlors on either side of a center hall are used as an art gallery and a gathering space for private parties. The house was once used as a cafe, and has a commercial-grade kitchen. The bedroom is upstairs. Both contemporaries have open floor plans with polished concrete floors and walls of glass facing the courtyards. Ceilings rise to more than 14 feet, some with clerestory windows. The sleek kitchens have granite countertops and stainless-steel appliances.
中央大厅两边各有一间偏厅，被用作画廊和举办私人派对的场所。这套房子曾是一家咖啡馆，配备了商业级的厨房。卧室位于楼上。而那两座现代建筑则有着开阔的平面布局，其中铺着抛光的混凝土地板，还修了几堵面向庭院的玻璃墙。天花板超过14英尺（约合4.3米）高，有些地方开有天窗。光洁的厨房里配了花岗岩的台面和不锈钢器具。
One of the new houses is single-story, with a master bedroom and common areas in one section, and across a breezeway, a second bedroom and a painting studio. The other is two stories, with one bedroom downstairs and one up, as well as an upstairs office and a perch-like deck. Here, the living-room floors are white oak, which the owner selected because it offered his piano a nicer reverb than concrete. The room is accented by a porthole window.
两座新建房屋中有一座是单层的，分为两个部分：一部分设有主卧室和公共活动区，通过连廊可到达另一部分——包含了次卧室和一间画室。另一座新建房屋有两层，楼上、楼下各有一间卧室，楼上还有一间办公室和一座窄而高的露台。其中起居室的地板为白橡木的，房主之所以选它是因为与混凝土相比，白橡木和他的钢琴搭配起来更协调。一扇舷窗给这个房间增添了几分情趣。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The property was landscaped by Sarah Carr, a partner and project manager at Mark Word Design in Austin, Tex. Courtyard walls are outfitted with wooden doors that turn on central pivots, allowing the spaces to be opened to the street. (Albany is a small town.) For greenery, the courtyards have native plants, Monterey oaks and buffalo grass.
户外空间：负责为这处房产设计造景的莎拉·卡尔(Sarah Carr)，是德州奥斯汀的设计公司Mark Word Design的合伙人和项目经理。庭院围墙上安了旋转木门，可以让户外空间通向街面（奥尔巴尼是个小城）。在绿化方面，庭院里种植了本地植物，蒙特雷橡树(Monterey oaks)和野牛草(buffalo grass)。
TAXES: $10,673 in 2014
税费：2014年为10673美元（约合人民币65569元）
CONTACT: Dave Perry-Miler, Dave Perry-Miller & Associates, (972) 380-7723; daveperrymiller.com
联系方式：戴夫·佩里-米勒(Dave Perry-Miler)，Dave Perry-Miller & Associates房地产公司，(972) 380-7723；daveperrymiller.com
•
LANETT, ALA.
阿拉巴马州，拉内特(LANETT, ALA.)
WHAT: A historic brick house with six bedrooms and eight bathrooms, and a two-bedroom guesthouse
房源：一座砖砌历史建筑，有六间卧室、八间浴室，以及一座两居室客房
HOW MUCH: $1,650,000
房价：165万美元（约合人民币1014万元）
SIZE: 8,500 square feet in the main house; 3,000 in the guesthouse
面积：主屋8500平方英尺（约合790平方米）；客房3000平方英尺（约合279平方米）
PRICE PER SQUARE FOOT: $143
单位面积房价：每平方英尺143美元（约合每平方米人民币9761元）
SETTING: Lanett, formerly a textile town, has a population of about 6,500 and is on the Alabama-Georgia line. The area, which includes neighboring West Point, Ga., and Valley, Ala., all on the Chattahoochee River, is known for its cache of older houses, some in districts on the National Register of Historic Places. Several years ago, a Kia plant was built in West Point.
周边环境：拉内特以前是纺织之乡，位于阿拉巴马州和佐治亚州的交界处，人口约有6500人。这片地区，包括邻近的佐乔治亚州西点市(West Point)和阿拉巴马州的山谷市(Valley)，都坐落在查特胡奇河(Chattahoochee River)畔，以其留存下来的古老房屋著称。其中有些房屋所在的街区，已被收录进国家史迹名录(National Register of Historic Places)。几年前，起亚(Kia)在西点市建了一座工厂。
This house, constructed for a textile baron, is on 33 landscaped acres off a dead-end street on the Georgia border. Fort Tyler, site of the Civil War Battle of West Point, fought seven days after the surrender of Gen. Robert E. Lee, is essentially in the backyard. West Point Lake, a reservoir of the Chattahoochee River popular with fisherman, is a few miles away. Much of the river is edged by parkland.
这套房子是为一名纺织大鳄修建的，坐落在33英亩（约合13公顷）的园林中，其外侧是佐治亚州边境上的一条断头路。美国内战时期西点战役的战场——泰勒堡(Fort Tyler)，实质上就在它的后院。那场战役打了七天，直到罗伯特·E·李(Robert E. Lee)将军投降。西点湖(West Point Lake)就在几英里外，那是查特胡奇河上的一座水库，经常有渔夫光临。河岸有很多部分与绿地交界。
INDOORS: The two-story house, known as the Lanier-Jennings-Scott House, was built in 1918 and later remodeled by Henry Toombs, the Georgia architect who helped design Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s hilltop retreat in Hyde Park, N.Y. It was last renovated in 2013.
室内装潢：这座两层小楼称为拉尼尔-詹宁斯-斯科特住宅(Lanier-Jennings-Scott House)，始建于1918年，而后由佐治亚州的建筑设计师亨利·图姆斯(Henry Toombs)改建。图姆斯曾协助设计富兰克林·德拉诺·罗斯福(Franklin Delano Roosevelt)在纽约州海德帕克(Hyde Park)的山间小屋。这座两层小楼最近一次装修是在2013年。
The exterior is brick, with a concrete roof. Much of the interior oak flooring is original, as are some of the windows and the walnut paneling; interior updates, including the walnut trim in the den, were styled to match.
外墙为砖砌，屋顶为混凝土。室内的橡木地板大多为保留下来的原物，部分窗户和胡桃木镶板也是如此；而包括私室里的胡桃木饰板在内，翻新的部分也都与原风格相匹配。
Through the front door is a broad hall with a spiral staircase. In addition to a kitchen, the first floor has four common rooms: the den, with a wet bar nook; a formal living room with arched built-in shelves; a dining room; and a sitting room. Each has a fireplace and 12-foot-tall ceilings. Also on the entry level is a tiled sunroom with French doors that open to patios. Kitchen updates include marble and quartz countertops and Jenn-Air appliances. Most of the kitchen is white, including the cabinets, tongue-and-groove paneling and ceiling.
穿过前门，即可进入一间宽敞的大厅，内有一座螺旋楼梯。除厨房外，一楼还有四个常规房间，包括一间带角落吧台的私室、一间配备了多个嵌入式拱顶书架的正式起居室、一间餐厅，以及一间小起居室。其中每个房间都有一座壁炉和12英尺高的天花板。同在建筑入口层的，还有一间贴有面砖的阳光房，内设有通往露台的法式对开门。厨房的翻新包括：添置了大理石和石英的台面，和尊爵(Jenn-Air)牌厨具。包括橱柜、榫接镶板和天花板在内，厨房的色调大多为白色。
The second floor can be reached by either stairs or elevator. Each of the four bedrooms here has an en-suite bathroom. The master has a fireplace. The third-floor attic is insulated and used for storage. Also on the property is a 3,000-square-foot guesthouse with two bedrooms and one bath, with a three-car garage. A barn is used for storing a tractor and farm equipment.
上到二楼既可以走楼梯，也可乘电梯。这里的四间卧室都带有配套的浴室。主卧内还配了一座壁炉。三楼的阁楼已做隔热处理，用于储物。这处房产中还有一栋3000平方英尺（约合279平方米）的客房，内有两间卧室、一间浴室和一座可停放三辆车的车库。有一间仓库用于停放拖拉机和存放农机设备。
OUTDOOR SPACE: The acreage is extensively landscaped, with woods as a buffer from the road. Behind the house are a pool and a tennis court. Near the edge of the property is a three-acre lake stocked with bluegill and bass, a dock and a pavilion. Bricks from an old greenhouse were saved and reused to make a carport, and the property also has an old pole barn.
户外空间：户外园景广阔，有一片作为房屋和道路间缓冲带的树林。屋后有一座泳池和网球场。接近房产边缘处，有一片占地3英亩（约合1.2公顷）的湖泊，里面放养着蓝鳃鱼和鲈鱼，岸边有一座码头和一间凉亭。停车棚的砖石来自一间旧花房。这处房产还有一座古老的木杆棚屋(pole barn)。
TAXES: $6,588.02 annually
税费：每年6588.02美元（约合人民币40473元）
CONTACT: Carter Brown and Brad Huguley, Coldwell Banker Spinks Brown Durand, (706) 773-1972 / (706) 773-7887; and Sister Hood, Harry Norman Realtors (404) 401-1163; spinksbrowndurand.com
联系方式：卡特·布朗(Carter Brown)和布拉德·于格雷(Brad Huguley)，Coldwell Banker Spinks Brown Durand房地产公司，(706) 773-1972 / (706) 773-7887；西丝特·胡德(Sister Hood)，Harry Norman Realtors房地产公司，(404) 401-1163；spinksbrowndurand.com