TEHRAN, Iran — Even as the United States and Iran pursue negotiations on Tehran’s nuclear program, they find themselves on the same side of a range of regional issues surrounding an insurgency raging across the Middle East.
伊朗德黑兰——虽然美国和伊朗还在寻求就德黑兰核计划进行谈判，但是在一场肆虐中东的动乱引发的一系列地区性问题上，它们却发现自己站到了同一边。
While the two governments quietly continue to pursue their often conflicting interests, they are being drawn together by their mutual opposition to an international movement of young Sunni fighters, who with their pickup trucks and Kalashnikovs are raising the black flag of Al Qaeda along sectarian fault lines in Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Afghanistan and Yemen.
尽管两国政府还在悄悄地追求各自的利益，而且双方的利益时常发生冲突，但就在此时，双方却因为都反对年轻的逊尼派武装人员开展的一项国际性运动，而开始走到一起。这些武装人员开着皮卡、拿着卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪，举着基地组织的黑色旗帜，在叙利亚、黎巴嫩、伊拉克、阿富汗、也门宗派冲突的前沿作战。
The United States, reluctant to intervene in bloody, inconclusive conflicts, is seeing its regional influence decline, while Iraq, which cost the Americans $1 trillion and more than 4,000 lives, is growing increasingly unstable.
美国不愿干预没有结果的血腥冲突，它在中东地区的影响力也在逐渐削弱，而耗费美国1万亿美元（约合6万亿元人民币）导致4000多名美军人员丧生的伊拉克，也在变得越来越不稳定。
At the same time, Shiite-dominated Iran, the magnetic pole for the Shiite minority in the region, has its own reasons to be nervous, with the ragtag army of Sunni militants threatening Syria and Iraq, both important allies, and the United States drawing down its troops in Afghanistan.
以什叶派为主的伊朗像一个磁极，吸引着该地区占少数的什叶派。与此同时，伊朗也有理由惴惴不安，逊尼派武装分子组成的杂牌部队对叙利亚和伊拉克构成了威胁，而两国都是伊朗的重要盟友；美国也正在削减它在阿富汗军力。
On Monday, Iran offered to join the United States in sending military aid to the Shiite government in Baghdad, which is embroiled in street-to-street fighting with radical Sunni militants in Anbar Province, a Sunni stronghold. On Sunday, Secretary of State John Kerry said he could envision an Iranian role in the coming peace conference on Syria, even though the meeting is supposed to plan for a Syria after the resignation of President Bashar al-Assad, an important Iranian ally.
周一，伊朗也和美国一样，提出要为什叶派的伊拉克政府提供军事援助，该国政府在逊尼派势力稳固的安巴尔省陷入了街头巷战，对手就是激进的逊尼派武装人员。周日，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)表示，他构想伊朗可以在即将召开的叙利亚和平会议上发挥作用，虽然该会议意在为巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)下台后的叙利亚制定规划。阿萨德是伊朗的重要盟友。
To some, the Iranian moves reflect the clever pragmatism of Iran’s new president, Hassan Rouhani, and his foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, aimed at building their country into a regional power. To others critical of the potential rapprochement, the moves are window dressing aimed at lulling the West into complacency while Tehran pursues nuclear weapons and supports its own jihadis throughout the region.
对一些人而言，伊朗的举动反映出了伊朗新任总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)和外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)明智的务实作风，其目的是将伊朗建成一个地区大国。而在那些对两国修好持批评态度的人看来，这些举动只是表面文章，为的是哄骗西方，从而让德黑兰可以继续研发核武器，并在整个地区支持该国自身的圣战分子。
Yet, even Iranians outside the reformist camp see the shared interests as undeniable. “It is clear we are increasingly reaching common ground with the Americans,” said one of them, Aziz Shahmohammadi, a former adviser to Iran’s Supreme National Security Council. “No country should have an eternal enemy, neither we nor the United States.”
然而，即使是改革派阵营之外的伊朗人也认为，两国的共同利益无可否认。他们中的代表，曾任伊朗最高国家安全委员会(Supreme National Security Council)顾问的阿齐兹·沙赫莫哈马迪(Aziz Shahmohammadi)就表示，“很明显我们和美国的共同利益越来越多。没有哪个国家有永远的敌人，不论是我们还是美国，都没有。”
With Iran as an island of stability in a region plagued by violent protests, sectarian clashes and suicide bombers, there are not that many options left for Washington, experts here say.
在这个深受暴力抗议、宗派冲突及自杀式爆炸袭击困扰的地区，伊朗是一个稳定的孤岛。德黑兰的专家们表示，在这种情况下，华盛顿并没有太多选择。
“We face the same enemy, and the enemy of my enemy is my friend,” said Mashallah Shamsolvaezin, a prominent Iranian reformist journalist who closely follows the Arab world. He recalled how Iranian intelligence operatives gave reliable information to American Special Forces troops battling Iran’s enemy, the Afghan Taliban, in 2001.
“我们面对相同的敌人，而敌人的敌人就是朋友，”伊朗著名改革派记者、密切关注阿拉伯世界的马索拉·莎索罗维辛(Mashallah Shamsolvaezin)说。他回忆起2001年，伊朗情报机构如何将可靠信息提供给美国特种部队，当时后者正和伊朗的敌人阿富汗塔利班作战。
While the Obama administration acknowledges that Iran has the potential to be an influential player on regional issues from Afghanistan to Syria, senior officials have said they are keeping their focus tightly on the nuclear negotiations. Cooperation on any other issues, they said, hinged largely on coming to terms on Iran’s nuclear program.
尽管奥巴马政府承认，伊朗有可能在从阿富汗到叙利亚的地区问题上发挥重要作用，但也有高级官员曾表示，他们的重中之重还是核计划谈判。他们说，在任何其他问题上的合作都很大程度上都取决于双方能否在伊朗核计划上达成一致。
The administration has concluded that Mr. Rouhani and Mr. Zarif have been empowered to negotiate on the nuclear program, but officials said it remained unclear whether their policy-making authority extended to regional issues like Syria. There, the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps holds vast influence through its Quds Force, and it is supplying weapons to Hezbollah in an effort to prop up President Assad’s government.
奥巴马政府最终表示，鲁哈尼和扎里夫拥有就核计划谈判的权力，但官员称目前仍不清楚他们制定政策的权力是否也延伸到叙利亚等地区事务上。在伊朗，伊斯兰革命卫队(Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps)通过圣城军(Quds Force)发挥着巨大影响，而且它还在给真主党提供武器，以支持阿萨德总统政府。
The thaw in relations extends back almost a year, with the two countries making overtures long thought impossible, deeply angering Washington’s closest regional allies, Saudi Arabia and Israel.
双方的关系是在近一年前出现解冻迹象的，当时两国都摆出了一直以来被认为不可能出现的友好姿态，深深激怒了华盛顿在该地区最密切的盟友沙特阿拉伯和以色列。
As early as last spring, a series of secret talks in Oman and Geneva laid the groundwork for re-establishing relations, cut 34 years ago after Iranian students took American diplomats hostage in revolutionary Tehran.
早在去年春天，在阿曼和日内瓦举行的一系列密谈就为重新建交奠定了基础。34年前，在正在爆发革命的德黑兰，伊朗学生扣押了美国外交官作为人质，导致两国断交。
In September came the agreement — credited to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia but fully backed and partly engineered by Iran — to remove Syria’s chemical weapons. Not long afterward, President Obama and Mr. Rouhani held a historic phone conversation, and in late November the United States and other world powers struck a temporary nuclear agreement with Iran, the first in 10 years.
9月，销毁叙利亚化学武器的协议达成。此举被认为是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的功劳，但也得到了伊朗的全力支持，在一定程度上甚至还是伊朗策划的。不久后，奥巴马总统和鲁哈尼进行了一次具有历史意义的电话通话。11月末，美国和其他大国同伊朗达成了一项临时核协议，属10年来首次。
Iran has been presenting itself as the voice of reason, pointing at the extremely graphic videos of beheadings and other executions produced by some of the insurgent groups in Syria, while President Rouhani wished a happy new year to all Christians on his Twitter account.
伊朗一直用叙利亚叛乱组织制作的那些血腥视频——其中展示了人被以斩首或其他形式处决——作为对比，向世人展示自己是个理性的国家，鲁哈尼总统还在自己的Twitter账户上祝所有基督徒新年快乐。
“Now extremists are once again threatening our security, and as in 2001, both countries will cooperate with each other in Iraq, and potentially elsewhere too,” Mr. Shamsolvaezin said. “This is the beginning of regional cooperation.”
“现在，极端分子再次威胁到了我们的安全，就像2001年时一样，两国将在伊拉克、甚至可能还会在其他地方开展合作，”莎索罗维辛说，“这是地区合作的开端。”
The thaw presents dangers to Presidents Obama and Rouhani, who will remain vulnerable to criticism from conservatives in both countries. Mr. Kerry’s invitation on Sunday for Iran to join “on the sidelines” of the Geneva conference was angrily rejected by Iranian hard-liners.
两国关系缓和给奥巴马总统和鲁哈尼总统带来了危险，他们依然很容易受到各自国家内部保守派的指责。克里周日邀请伊朗以“旁听”的身份参与日内瓦会议，被伊朗的强硬派愤怒地拒绝。
Analysts in Iran say that Tehran is pursuing a clever strategy, using the United States to undermine its greatest regional rival, Saudi Arabia.
伊朗的分析人士称，德黑兰正在实施一项更聪明的战略，用美国牵制自己在该地区最大的对手沙特阿拉伯。
“Cooperating skillfully with Russia, Iran has managed to change the game both in Iraq and in Syria,” said Hooshang Tale, a Tehran-based nationalist activist and a member of Parliament before the 1979 Islamic Revolution. “If we play our cards well, we will end up outsmarting both the U.S. and Saudi Arabia.”
“通过巧妙地与俄罗斯进行合作，伊朗改变了伊拉克和叙利亚的局势，”驻德黑兰民族主义活动人士、1979年伊斯兰革命前的议会成员胡尚·塔莱(Hooshang Tale)说。“如果利用好这次机会，我们最后就可以智胜美国和沙特。”