SAN JOSÉ, Costa Rica — I am not one of those who believe the United States’ days of world leadership are behind us. All my life I have been an admirer of our northern neighbor. I believe its strengths — its democracy, its founders’ wisdom, its people’s ingenuity and diversity — give it unique authority in the world. But many of its citizens and their leaders seem to take such authority for granted now, as if it were American property. The truth is, it must be earned, and today the United States is passing up opportunities to earn it.
哥斯达黎加圣何塞——我不认为美国作为世界领导者的日子已经过去。我这一生都十分仰慕我们的这位北方邻居。我相信它的强大——它的民主、它的开国者的智慧、它的人民的才智和多样性——为自己在这个世界里树立起了一种独特的威信。但是它的许多国民及其领导人似乎把这种威信当成了理所当然的东西，仿佛它就是美国的财产。事实上，这种威信是必须去争取的，而当今的美国正在错失争取威信的时机。
The Arms Trade Treaty, approved by the United Nations in April, is one such opportunity, and it must not be allowed to slip by. Last month, Secretary of State John Kerry signed it. Given the enormous presence of the United States in the international arms market, the treaty’s ratification, which requires a vote of two-thirds of the Senate, is essential to its success.
联合国(United Nations)在4月通过的《武器贸易条约》(Arms Trade Treaty)就是这样一个机会，一定不容错过。国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)上月已经在这份条约上签字。条约需要经过参议院三分之二的议员投票通过才能正式生效，以美国在国际军火市场上的主导地位，这对条约的成败极为关键。
But the treaty will face stiff opposition. Two Republican Senators, James Inhofe and Jerry Moran, have gleefully pronounced the treaty “dead on arrival” and argue that the United States should not ratify it because North Korea, Syria and Iran declined to sign it. To do otherwise, they assert, would leave the United States “handcuffed.”
但是条约会遭到强硬的抵制。詹姆斯·英霍夫(James Inhofe)和杰瑞·莫兰(Jerry Moran)这两位共和党参议员已经兴高采烈地宣布条约“到院前死亡”，并称美国不应该批准它，因为朝鲜、叙利亚和伊朗都拒绝签署。他们断言，如果不这样做，美国会被“戴上镣铐”。
Gentlemen, you have it backward. The United States would not be handcuffed by a treaty that prevents the sale of conventional weapons to individuals or states that would use them to violate human rights. If the Senate fails to ratify the treaty, your country will be handcuffed by its own reluctance to lead. The United States, which claims to desire a safer, more peaceful world, would shrink from moving toward that goal unless the rest of the world acted first.
先生们，你们弄反了。这份条约禁止向侵犯人权的国家或个人出售常规武器，美国不会因此被铐住的。如果参议院没能通过条约，你们的国家倒是会被这种不愿意作领导的心态缚住手脚。声称希望世界更安全、更和平的美国，会在通往这个目标的道路上驻足不前，要等其他国家先行动了才行。
Yours is the country that stood alone in the world’s first and only use of nuclear weapons; the country that stood nearly alone in invading Iraq; the country that seemed ready to stand alone at the brink of unilateral action against Syria.
你们的这个国家，是全世界第一个拥有和唯一一个使用过核武器的国家；是几乎仅凭一己之力入侵了伊拉克的国家；是看似准备好了对叙利亚采取单方面行动的国家。
So why should it be afraid to lead in matters of peace? One reason, clearly, is the extraordinary influence of the National Rifle Association over U.S. elected officials. I have rarely spoken out about the N.R.A., since I believe its position on gun control within the United States is for the American people and government to resolve. But I have campaigned for a treaty to control the international arms trade since the mid-1990s, after Costa Rica, having abolished its own army decades before, witnessed the carnage caused by unrestricted arms sales to other nations of Central America.
那么它为什么会害怕在和平事务上带头呢？有一个原因很明显，就是美国步枪协会（National Rifle Association，简称NRA）对美国的民选官员有着非同寻常的影响力。我很少谈论NRA，因为我相信它在美国国内控枪问题上的立场该留待美国人和美国政府去解决。但是我从上世纪90年代中期就已经开始呼吁签署一份条约，对国际军火贸易进行管制。此前，数十年前就已经废除军队的哥斯达黎加目睹了针对其他中美洲国家无节制地出售武器所带来的惨剧。
In opposing the Arms Trade Treaty, the N.R.A. now seeks to impose its agenda on the rest of the world, and I can no longer be silent. Its reckless argument that the treaty violates U.S. sovereignty is simply without any basis in fact. It is shameful to think that any definition of national sovereignty could include a right to sell arms for the violation of human rights in other countries.
NRA对《武器贸易条约》的抵制，是在将自己的意愿强加于其他国家，对此我不能再保持沉默。它妄称条约侵犯了美国主权，但事实上这个说法没有任何依据。不论如何去定义国家主权，如果这个主权包括向出现侵犯人权情况的他国出售武器的权利，那将是很可耻的。
To the N.R.A., I say: Inflict your agenda on your own nation if you must, but spare the rest of us. Spare us the notion that the interests of a single interest group, in a single nation, should trump the rights of all other nations to protect their citizens. Spare us your misguided references to a Constitution whose brilliant authors would be aghast to see you equate the right to put a rifle in your gun case with the right to put an AK-47 in the hands of a child soldier.
我要对NRA说：如果非要强加意愿，强加到你自己国家身上，放过其他人。不要跟我们说一个单一利益的集团、一个国家的利益应该高于其他所有国家保护本国公民的权利。别跟我们提那些对美国宪法的误读了，你们把在你们的枪盒里放一支步枪的权利，和让一个儿童士兵手握AK-47的权利等同起来，起草宪法的先贤们看到了会被惊呆的。
You should, instead, read the treaty with the seriousness it deserves. You would see that it supports the very causes you endorse: the safety of all citizens, and freedom from fear and oppression.
你们应该做的是认真去看一看条约。你们会看到它支持的正是你们在捍卫的初衷：全体公民的安全，让他们不必遭受恐吓和压迫。
Ratification would also support a renaissance of U.S. leadership on the world stage. Your country is responsible for nearly half of the world’s outrageous $1.7 trillion military spending, and home to the world’s largest stockpile of nuclear weapons. It has unparalleled economic power to attack the root causes of terrorism and unrest by fostering human development, regulating the arms flow to terrorists and dictators, and pursuing the dream of a world without nuclear weapons. But America keeps waiting for someone else to make the first move.
条约的生效将帮助美国重新成为世界舞台上的领导者。全世界高达1.7万亿美元的惊人军费开支，你们国家占去了将近一半，你们还拥有世界上最大的核武器储备。这个国家拥有无与伦比的经济力量，可以通过促进人类发展、管制流向恐怖分子和独裁者的武器、追求全球无核化的梦想，打击到恐怖主义和动荡的根源。但美国一直在等待别人先走出第一步。
If leadership toward these goals does not come from Washington, only the most arrogant American could think it would never come from somewhere else.
如果华盛顿不能带头去向着这个目标努力，那么只有最狂妄的美国人才会认为，绝对不会有别的国家担起这个责任。