NEW ORLEANS — Karen Sandoval’s promising life in this city fell apart in one day last summer when she went to buy school supplies for her two daughters.
新奥尔良——去年夏季的一天，当凯伦·桑多瓦尔(Karen Sandoval)去给两个女儿买学习用品时，她在这座城市充满希望的生活被撕成了碎片。
Ms. Sandoval, a Honduran immigrant here illegally, was riding with the man her girls have always called their father. Immigration agents, seeing a dilapidated car, pulled them over. They released Ms. Sandoval but detained her partner, a Nicaraguan also here illegally, and he was soon deported.
桑多瓦尔是来自洪都拉斯的非法移民，她当时和被女儿们称作爸爸的男人一起坐在车上。当移民官员看到这辆破败不堪的汽车时，命令他们停到路边。他们释放了桑多瓦尔，但逮捕了她的伴侣，一个同为非法移民的尼加拉瓜人，并且很快把他驱逐出境了。
Now Ms. Sandoval, 28, is grieving her loss and scrambling to support her children without her partner, Enrique Morales, and the income from his thriving flooring business. She sees no future for the girls, who are both American citizens, in her home country or his. So Ms. Sandoval is facing the possibility that she may never see Mr. Morales again.
现在，28岁的桑多瓦尔仍在为此事伤心，并要在伴侣恩里克·莫拉莱斯(Enrique Morales)不在的情况下艰难地抚养孩子，他的地板生意曾做得欣欣向荣，现在这笔收入没有了。她认为不论在洪都拉斯还是尼加拉瓜，身为美国公民的两个女儿都是没前途的。所以，桑多瓦尔可能永远见不到莫拉莱斯了。
“It is very difficult to explain to two little girls that Daddy will not be with us anymore,” Ms. Sandoval said.
桑多瓦尔说，“很难向两个小女孩解释为什么爸爸不能和我们在一起。”
Since taking office, President Obama has deported more than 1.9 million foreigners, immigration officials announced last week, a record for an American president. The officials said they focused on removing criminals, serious immigration offenders and recent border crossers, with 98 percent of deportees in 2013 in those groups, while sparing workers and their families. Mr. Obama is also pressing for an overhaul of immigration laws with a path to citizenship for those here illegally.
移民官员上周宣布，自上任以来，奥巴马总统共驱逐了超过190万名外国人，创下了美国总统的纪录。官员称，他们驱逐的主要是罪犯、严重违反移民法和最近跨越边境的人。2013年被驱逐的人中有98%都属于这些群体，但工人和他们的家人不会被驱逐。奥巴马还在推动移民法改革，让美国的非法移民获得公民身份。
But immigrant leaders say the enforcement has a broad impact on their communities, with deportations still separating bread-winning parents from children and unauthorized immigrants from family members here legally, including American citizens.
但是移民部门领导人称，他们的行动还是对社区造成了重大影响。因为驱逐非法移民还是会让承担养家责任的父母与孩子分离，未经官方批准的移民与他们合法生活在美国的家庭成员相分离，其中有些人还是美国公民。
Administration officials say the deportation numbers — more than 368,000 this fiscal year — are driven by a congressional requirement that more than 30,000 immigrants be detained daily. They acknowledge that the lines are becoming harder to draw between high-priority violators and those with strong family ties.
美国政府官员称，每天保持3万多名移民被拘押是国会要求，被驱逐的人数——本财年共有36.8万多人——就是被这样推高的。他们承认，把严重违规者和那些有牢固家庭联系的人区分对待越来越困难。
For immigrants, the steady deportations have compounded their frustration with Congress, where the House took no action this year after the Senate passed a bipartisan overhaul bill in June. Increasingly advocates are turning their pressure on the president, saying he should use his executive powers to halt removals.
对于移民而言，今年6月，当参议院通过一项两党连立的整改法案时，众议院没有采取任何举动。越来越多的抗议者转而向总统施压，称他应该利用自己的行政权力来制止驱逐行为。
“Our people feel they can’t go to the store to buy food or walk their children to school,” said Santos Alvarado, 51, a Honduran construction worker who joined the protest here even though he has legal papers. “We couldn’t be quiet any longer.”
“我们这些人都觉得自己不能去商店买东西或者送孩子去上学了，”51岁的洪都拉斯建筑工人桑托斯·阿尔瓦拉多(Santos Alvarado)说。虽然他的居留得到了批准，但他也加入了抗议行列。“我们不能再沉默了。”
Many immigrants here have been stunned by the arrests, in which some people seemed to be stopped based solely on their Latino appearance, because they had been living here uneventfully since they came in the chaotic days after Hurricane Katrina in 2005 to work on reconstruction.
这里的很多移民都对逮捕非法移民的事情感到震惊，有些人仅仅因为自己的拉美长相就会被拦下来。而感到震惊是因为，他们在2005年“卡特里娜”飓风后的混乱时刻来到这里参与重建，此后一直平平安安地生活在这里。
One of those workers, Jimmy Barraza, was unloading a carful of groceries on Aug. 16 when agents pulled up with pistols drawn, handcuffing him as well as his teenage son, a United States citizen. A mobile fingerprint check of Mr. Barraza, who is also Honduran, revealed an old court order for his deportation.
这批工人中有个人叫做吉米·巴拉萨(Jimmy Barraza)。8月16日，他正在从车上卸下食品杂货，跟随而来的移民官员拔出手枪，给他和他十多岁的儿子——一个美国公民——戴上了手铐。巴拉萨也是洪都拉斯人，官员在用便携仪器进行指纹检测后，发现法院曾下令对他进行驱逐。
Mr. Barraza, 28, won release from detention but is still fighting to remain. His wife is a longtime legal immigrant, and he has two other younger children who are American citizens.
28岁的巴拉萨已经获释，但他依然在争取留下。他的妻子一直是非法移民，他还有两个年纪更小的孩子，他们都是美国公民。
“If they deport me,” he said, “who will keep my son in line? Who will support my family?”
“如果他们将我驱逐出境，”他说。“谁来管教我的儿子？谁来养活我的家人？”
Another Honduran, Irma Lemus, was packing fishing rods for a day on the bayou when cruising immigration agents spotted her family and stopped. A fingerprint check revealed that Ms. Lemus, too, had a deportation order.
另一名洪都拉斯人艾尔玛·莱穆斯(Irma Lemus)正在河上收拾鱼竿，巡航的移民局工作人员看到了她的家人，并停了下来。指纹检查显示，莱穆斯也收到过驱逐令。
“They handcuffed me in front of my children,” she recalled, speaking of a son who is 2 and a daughter who is 4.
她回忆称，“他们当着孩子的面给我带上了手铐。”她有一个2岁的儿子和一个4岁的女儿。
After she spent 18 days in jail, lawyers won her release with an ankle monitor while immigration prosecutors weigh their options.
莱穆斯在监狱待了18天，之后，法官将她释放，给她带上了脚踝监视器，与此同时负责移民问题的检察官还在考虑采取什么手段。
Ms. Lemus, 35, had steady work here cleaning hotels and a stable family, including a Honduran son, Joseph, who is 9 and in treatment for an eye disease, and her younger children who are American-born citizens. So she might be eligible for prosecutorial discretion, a policy the Obama administration has applied extensively to suspend deportations.
35岁的莱穆斯有一份稳定的酒店保洁工作和一个稳定的家庭，她有一个洪都拉斯籍的儿子——9岁的约瑟夫，他正在接受眼病治疗，以及其他年纪更小的孩子，他们都是美国人。因此，她可能有资格获得起诉裁量权，这个用于暂停驱逐的政策是奥巴马政府广泛应用的。
But although Ms. Lemus — like Mr. Morales, Mr. Barraza and many other illegal immigrants — had no criminal history, she did have a civil immigration record because of an earlier brush with enforcement authorities. She had failed to appear at a court hearing after she was stopped in 2006 crossing the southwest border. The judge’s order gave agents the authorization to deport her speedily.
虽然莱穆斯像莫拉莱斯、巴拉萨、以及很多其他非法移民一样，没有犯罪记录，她之前确实因为与执法部门产生冲突而留下了有关移民问题的民事记录。在2006年穿越西南边境时受到阻止后，莱穆斯没有出席庭审。法官下达命令，授权移民局工作人员立即将她驱逐出境。
Taking her children to Honduras, with its rampant gang violence and poor medical care, is not an option Ms. Lemus wishes to consider. So they live in anxiety that she could leave them any day.
带孩子回洪都拉斯不是莱穆斯愿意考虑的一个选择，洪都拉斯的帮派暴力活动十分猖獗，而且医疗条件较差。因此，他们生活在焦虑之中，担心莱穆斯说不定哪天就会离开他们。
“I think it would be so sad for all of my family,” her son Joseph said.
莱穆斯的儿子约瑟夫说，“我觉得我的家人会为此感到非常难过。”
Many Republicans say Mr. Obama is deporting too few illegal immigrants. Robert Goodlatte, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said the figures published last week, showing a 10 percent decrease from 2012, were “just more evidence that the Obama administration refuses to enforce our immigration laws.”
很多共和党人表示，奥巴马驱逐非法移民的人数太少。众议院司法委员会(House Judiciary Committee)主席罗伯特·古德拉特(Robert Goodlatte)表示，上周公布的数据显示驱逐人数比2012年减少了10%，是“奥巴马政府拒绝捍卫我们的移民法又一明证。”
Administration officials said removal numbers were determined by a requirement, included by Congress in the immigration agency’s appropriations, to fill a daily average of about 34,000 beds in detention facilities. The mandate, which is closely monitored by oversight committees, amounts to about 400,000 removals a year.
政府官员表示，驱逐人数是由国会的一项要求决定的，国会要求移民局平均每天拘留大约3.4万人。命令的执行受到监督委员会的密切监控，这样累积下来，移民局每年需要驱逐大约40万人。
“We are fulfilling the mandate,” John Sandweg, the acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in an interview. “We want to fill the beds with the right people, that is, public safety and national security threats and individuals we are required by law to detain.”
“我们在执行命令，” 美国移民及海关执法局(Immigration and Customs Enforcement)代理局长约翰·桑维格(John Sandweg)接受采访时说。“我们希望把这些床位留给该被拘押的人，也就是法律要求我们拘押的那些危害公共安全及国家安全的威胁和个人。”
But he noted that agents were encountering many immigrants who fit those priorities but also had family connections that could make them eligible to stay by prosecutorial discretion.
但他指出，工作人员遇到很多属于重点驱逐目标的移民，但他们的家庭关系可能会使他们有资格获得起诉裁量权，继续留在美国。
“Many of these cases are very complex and not cut-and-dry,” Mr. Sandweg said.
桑维格说，“其中很多案件都非常复杂，不是板上钉钉的铁案。”