Introduction.
作为一名加拿大人，作者伊恩·布朗(Ian Brown)对“美国梦”的概念很感兴趣，他认为这是一个让来自不同阶层和种族的公民都可以获得与分享的理念。因此，他用镜头记录下了一些受访的美国人，并让他们写下自己关于“美国梦”的故事。
Lisa M. Weah
莉萨·M·维阿(Lisa M. Weah)
BALTIMORE, MD.
马里兰州巴尔的摩
My Ancestors came to America in chains. When slavery was abolished, we were considered three-fifths, and segregated to an inferior societal status. So I dream the dream of a people who have come this far by faith. I dream of an America which embodies its own declaration: that all people are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.
我的祖先是带着镣铐来到美国的。奴隶制废除后，一个黑人折算为五分之三个人，我们遭到隔离，社会地位低下。所以我的梦想就是一个依靠信仰走到今天的民族的梦想。我梦想看到一个能体现它自己的宣言的美国：人人生而平等，造物者赋予他们若干不可剥夺的权利，其中包括生命权、自由权和追求幸福的权利。
Billy Pfaff
比利·普法夫(Billy Pfaff)
BILLERICA, MASS.
马萨诸塞州比尔里卡
In 2010 I had a gun in my mouth and wanted to die. And Begged for my life for my two girls. I said save me please for my kids, and at that moment I put it down. I said save me and I’ll save life’s tenfold. And today I am alive to share with you my story. I am a proud grandfather, and I save 50 to 100 lives a month. I am the founder of Heroin is Killing My Town. A grassroots outreach heroin awareness. Reaching 1 million a week world wide and I inspire the world with my messages
2010年，我想饮弹自杀。但是为了两个女儿，我祈求上帝给我活下去的勇气。我说，为了我的孩子，请救救我。然后我把枪放下了。我说，救救我，我会加倍地去拯救他人的生命。如今，我活着和你们分享我的故事。我是一个骄傲的祖父，一个月拯救50至100条生命。我是“海洛因正毁灭我的小镇”组织(Heroin is Killing My Town)的创始人。这是一个宣传海洛因危害的草根组织。我们每周和世界各地的100万人沟通，我用自己的故事激励这个世界。
NEVER GIVE UP!
永远不要放弃！
Jess, Gabby, Daddy loves you xo
杰西(Jess)，加比(Gabby)，爸爸爱你们，亲亲抱抱。
Billy Inkslinger 2015
“九纹龙”比利 2015年
Mary and Tom Cory
玛丽(Mary)和汤姆·科里(Tom Cory)
ELKHART, IOWA
艾奥瓦州埃尔克哈特
My name is Mary Cory. My husband, Tom, and I have been given stewardship over some of the richest soil in the world. The land that we farm has been in our family since the mid-1800’s. Our ancestors were adventurous pioneers on the midwest prairie. We are located in central Iowa.
我叫玛丽·科里。我和丈夫汤姆管理着世界上最肥沃的一片土地。我们耕种的土地从19世纪中叶起就属于我们的家族。我们的祖先是美国中西部大草原的开拓者。我们住在艾奥瓦州中部。
As we began to learn more about health, wellness, and nutrition for our own family, it made us desire to change the way that we farmed. Folks who are not able to raise their own food depend on people like us to produce it for them. We look customers in the eye, we do not want to apologize for the methods we use.
我们开始更多地了解关于健康以及为自己家人提供营养的知识后，我们决定改变务农方式。不能自己生产食品的人,依靠的是我们这些人。我们真诚面对顾客，我们不想为自己采取的方式道歉。
Over the past twelve years, we have transitioned our land from conventional corn and soybean productions to land that is grazed by animals.
在过去12年里，我们的土地利用方式从传统的玉米和大豆种植转变为放牧。
Our tagline is, “It begins with the soil.” To us, this means that if we do what we can to facilitate a healthy soil life, this will allow a variety of plants to convert sunshine and soil nutrients into a healthy product produced by our animals. The nutrient - dense grass fed beef, lamb, chicken, and eggs will nourish individuals. This is one tool to enhance wellness.
我们的口号是“一切从土地开始”。对我们来说，这意味着，如果我们尽己所能让土壤变得更健康，各种植物会把阳光和土壤养分变成健康的肉类。用营养丰富的牧草饲养产出的牛肉、羊肉、鸡肉和鸡蛋将会滋养人类。这是增进健康的一种方法。
Aveonte Willingham
埃维翁特·威灵厄姆(Aveonte Willingham)
WITH HIS COUSINS, SAMAURA AND CASSIDY; FLINT, MICH.
和侄子萨穆拉(Samaura)和侄女卡西迪(Cassidy)在一起；密歇根州弗林特
My American dream is a safe place for everyone. The poor, needy, sick, the helpless everyone. No more danger in the streets, or fear to walk down your own block at night. A sanctuary of sorts, where everyone can at least go to work and provide for their families and do what they love in peace. No fear of getting shot, robbed, kidnapped, only the wonder of what to eat for dinner or if you’ll go out for a movie. Though it may be cliche, it’s my American dream.
我的美国梦是每个人都有一个安全的环境。所有贫穷的、需要帮助的、生病的、无助的人。街上不再有危险，晚上在自己的街区走路完全不用害怕。就像一个安全港湾，大家都至少能去上班，挣钱养家，平静地做他们喜欢做的事。不用害怕遭到枪击、抢劫、绑架，只用想想晚餐吃什么，或者要不要出去看场电影。虽然这可能听起来很老套，但这就是我的美国梦。
by Aveonte WillinghamAge 15
作者：埃维翁特·威灵厄姆15岁
Kaitlynn Cates
凯特琳·凯茨(Kaitlynn Cates)
BOSTON, MASS.
马萨诸塞州波士顿
I have always been a “pusher.” Testing my limits: physical pain, tolerance, and mental strength. When someone tells me NO, how can I turn that into YES? Someone sees all black but I see a smidge of white, how can I show them. Challenges entice me. No one governs your capabilities other than you. This is a lesson and a way of life that I always find myself “falling back on” when I fail. Failure can be beautiful, it drives you to dig deeper to find a better solution/method which helps you discover a different more powerful side of yourself. Having lost my right calf in the 2013 Marathon Bombings, I suffered physical and mental pain which I overcame with the mentality expressed above. I was broken in every way. I took on a whole new list of challenges and succeeded in finding happiness. I help people daily with finding the right home. I am healthy, I contribute one hour per day to physical activity. I make time time to communicate with all of my blessings as often as possible. This life I live today is my American Dream.
我一直是个“好胜的人”。我尝试挑战自己的各种极限：身体上的疼痛、忍耐力和意志力量。当有人对我说“不”，我怎么才能把它变成“是”？有些人只看到黑，而我看见一点白，我怎么展示给他们？挑战诱惑着我。除了你自己，没人能掌控你的能力。每当我失败时，我总是“回到”这条人生经验和生活方式上。失败也很美，它驱使你更加努力，找到更好的解决方案或方法，帮你发现自己更强大的另一面。在2013年马拉松爆炸案中，我失去了右小腿，遭受身体和精神上的痛苦，我用上面提到的心态克服了这些痛苦。我在各个方面都被打倒。我列出一系列全新挑战，又成功地找到了幸福。现在，我每天帮助人们找到属于他们的家。我很健康，每天花一个小时锻炼身体。我挤出时间，尽可能多地去感受我的所有幸福。现在我过的生活就是我的美国梦。
Justin and Audra Ferrell
贾斯廷和奥德拉·费雷尔(Justin and Audra Ferrell)
OAK HILL, W.VA.
西弗吉尼亚州奥克希尔
Someone once told me “The second that you accept what was good enough for you as good enough for your kids, you lose.” We both believe that, so when we decided to start a family, buying a home was the first step. Neither of our parents ever purchased a home, so we started there. And that’s our dream and how we’re working toward it. We want to give our children more than we had so that they can do the same, and leave the world better than we found it. That’s our American Dream.
有人曾经对我说，“如果你认为对你来说够好的就是对你的孩子够好的，那么从那一刻起你就失败了。”我们俩都这么认为，所以当我们决定组建家庭时，首先决定买房子。我们的父母都没买过房子，所以我们决定从这一点开始。这就是我们的梦想以及我们努力的方式。我们想给孩子比父母给我们的更多，希望将来他们也能这样对他们的孩子，这样世界才能变得更美好。那就是我们的美国梦。
Skylar Kergil
斯凯拉·科吉尔(Skylar Kergil)
CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇
My dream is to never stop growing, changing, or becoming – my transition from female to male was only the beginning – I want to feel whole in my skin and loved alongside others whom I love. I ask a whole lot of questions, my dream is to be okay without knowing all of the answers.
我的梦想是永不停止成长和改变——从女性变成男性只是一个开始——我想感受完整，和我爱的人一起去感受被爱。我有数不清的问题，我的梦想是能接受有些问题永远没有答案。
Skylar Kergil
斯凯拉·科吉尔
Hector Salamenca
赫克托·萨拉门卡(Hector Salamenca)
DES MOINES, IOWA
艾奥瓦州得梅因
My American Dream is to run for Office & help empower my community. Being undocumented and with DACA hasn’t stopped me from graduating from my university with honors and being an elected official would be the icing on the cake.
我的美国梦是竞选公职，帮助赋予我的社区更多力量。我没有正式的身份文件，享有童年入境暂缓遣返程序的保护。——这些没有阻止我获得大学荣誉证书，能够当选公职将是锦上添花。
Olivia Chelko-Long
奥利维亚·切尔科-隆(Olivia Chelko-Long)
MONROE, GA.
乔治亚州门罗
My American dream is that everyone has the gift of advocacy on their life … that no one waits for a world, a community, or someone to give them permission to stand up for others.
我的美国梦是每个人在生活中都有拥护权。谁都不需要等这个世界或一个社区或什么人允许他们支持他人。
Rick Ector
里克·埃克特(Rick Ector)
DETROIT, MICH.
密歇根州底特律
My American Dream
我的美国梦
A dream of an America in which the gun rights of all citizens are respected and are not infringed.
我的梦想是，所有美国公民拥有枪支的权利得到尊重，不被侵犯。
I wasn’t always a Second Amendment [supporter]. Ten years ago, my ambivalence faded away when I was robbed at gun-point in my driveway. Suddenly, nothing became more important than being able to take on a more active role in my personal safety.
我本来不是《第二修正案》(Second Amendment)的[支持者]。十年前，我在自家停车道上被人用枪指着，遭到抢劫，之后我对枪支的矛盾心理慢慢消失了。突然之间，能更积极地维护自身安全显得比什么都重要。
Ameena Mathews
阿米娜·马修(Ameena Mathews)
SOUTH CHICAGO, ILL.
伊利诺伊州芝加哥南区
American Dream
美国梦
To live in a city where people care for one another
我想住在一个人们互相关心的城市里
Speak good morning and mean it
大家真心地对别人说早上好
2016 Racism is real. Killing people of colour is a sin.
种族主义是真实存在的。杀害有色人种是一种罪恶。
God please help change the mindset from hatred to understanding.
上帝，请帮助改变人们的心态，化仇恨为理解。
Nick and Bethlyn Wallace
尼克和贝思琳·华莱士(Nick and Bethlyn Wallace)
PHOTOGRAPHED AT STINSON BEACH, CALIF.; LIVE IN SALT LAKE CITY.
照片摄于加利福尼亚州斯廷森海滩(Stinson Beach)；家住盐湖城。
Our “American Dream” is to live free from the frivolous needs of society. Break away from the hypocrisy and practice a life of self sufficiency. Give up on the gridlock of everyday strife and make everyday matter by experiencing. Life …
我们的“美国梦”是远离无聊的社会需求。远离虚伪，过上自给自足的生活。摆脱日常争执的僵局，通过体验让每一天过得充实。生活……
Jeanne Thommen
珍妮·托门(Jeanne Thommen)
WHITE HALL, MD.
马里兰州怀特霍尔
My original American Dream was crushed. My high school sweetheart of 28 years & husband of over 20 years, was leading a double life & is now in federal prison for the next 31/2 years. I am divorcing him & he is no longer in our lives. At 45, I am raising our teenagers alone and starting my dreams over.
我最初的美国梦已经破碎。我从高中起爱了28年、和我结婚20多年的丈夫原来一直过着双面的生活。接下来他要在联邦监狱待上三十一二年。我要和他离婚，他将不再出现在我和孩子们的生活中。在45岁这一年，我要独自抚养我们十几岁的孩子，从头再来。
We are renting a 200 yr. old farm house in White Hall so my son can stay in his school. I left my career in the arts to find a career to better provide for the 3 of us. We lost EVERYTHING. I am working for a real estate firm in Baltimore City. The contrast between my rural home life + city work life is pretty amazing. I am only an office admin but I’m hoping to learn + progress so I can move up in the company.
我们在怀特霍尔租了一个有着200年历史的旧农舍，以便我的儿子能够留在学校。为了我们三个人能过上更好的生活，我放弃了自己原本艺术方向的工作，找了一个新工作。我们失去了一切。现在，我在巴尔的摩市的一家房地产公司工作。家中的乡间生活和工作时的城市生活是如此的不同。目前我只是个办公室行政人员，但是我希望自己可以不断学习、进步，这样我才能在公司得到提拔。
My dream is to rebuild a better life for us. We know what struggles are – we’ve been stripped of nearly everything. I want to give my kids back the simple pleasures – to be able to take a vacation so we can make good memories instead of bonding through the bad. I want to see my kids heal & go on to live honest, happy + healthy lives. My kids are my world & I will work my hardest to show them that life does go on and we can get through this horrible time in our lives.
我的梦想是为我和我的孩子重建更美好的生活。我们清楚眼前的巨大困难是什么：我们已经被剥夺得几乎一无所有。我想让我的孩子们重温简单的快乐——能够去度度假之类的。这样，我们就可以创造一些美好的回忆，而不是绑在一起熬过痛苦的日子。我想要看到孩子们不再伤心，继续过上诚实、快乐和健康的生活。孩子们就是我的全世界。我要努力工作，向他们证明生活仍在继续，我们可以捱过这段糟糕的日子。
John Sezikeye
约翰·塞基凯耶(John Sezikeye)
BALTIMORE, MD.
马里兰州巴尔的摩市
After 9 years of study in India, I came to the USA as an ethnic Tutsi refugee from the D.R. Congo.
在印度学习了9年之后，我以图西族难民的身份从刚果（金）来到了美国。
I was amazed to see how people of various background live together in harmony. People are judged by their performance, not by their origin.
看到不同背景的人们和谐地生活在一起，我惊讶极了。评判每个人的标准是他们的表现，而不是他们的出身。
I created an NGO called ‘New Day New Hope’ to provide shelter to other immigrants who need a safe place to live.
我创办了一个名叫“新起点新希望(New Day New Hope)”的非政府组织，为其他需要安全居所的移民提供庇护。
My American Dream is to see the American capitalism grow and flourish with the hope that the beneficiaries of that growth will use their wealth to alleviate the suffering of fellow human beings across the country and across the world.
我的美国梦是看到美国的资本主义不断发展、繁荣，并且希望这种发展的受益者能够用他们的财富来帮助全国乃至全世界正在遭受苦难的人们，减轻他们的痛苦。
John L. Sezikeye
约翰·L·塞基凯耶