The American political system is barely functional and the economy is still struggling, especially for those in the middle and working classes. But when it comes to the biggest concern of some commentators a generation ago — the decay of our culture — there is evidence that the country is doing all right.
美国的政治体系几乎丧失了功能，经济依然没有摆脱困境，特别是对于中产和工薪阶层而言。但就上一代评论家最大的担忧——美国文化正走向衰败——而言，有证据表明，这个国家目前做得还不错。
In the 1990s, the conservative William J. Bennett, a former education secretary and drug czar, devised his “Index of Leading Cultural Indicators.” He worried about a pervasive decline in moral values and “eroding social pathologies.” A few years later, he tempered his negative assessment, seeing some improvements, but he was still pessimistic.
在20世纪90年代，曾担任教育部长和禁毒专员的保守主义者威廉·班奈特(William J. Bennett)，构想出“主要文化指标指数”(Index of Leading Cultural Indicators)。道德价值观的普遍下降和“腐蚀性社会病态”让他忧心如焚。几年后，他看到一些改进，并因此减缓了他的负面评价，但仍然很悲观。
In a recent interview, Mr. Bennett said that he now saw more progress than deterioration and that his worst forebodings had not materialized. “We’re not headed for catastrophe,” he said.
班奈特最近接受采访时表示，他现在看到的进步多于恶化，此前最糟糕的预言没有成为事实。“我们并没有走向灾难，”他说。
The positive developments include falling crime rates, fewer abortions and a remarkable decline in teenage pregnancies. Less encouraging is the increasing number of single-parent families and the huge prison population. On health matters, cigarette smoking continues to drop, but drug use doesn’t.
积极的进展包括犯罪率下降，堕胎现象减少，少女怀孕率显著降低。不那么令人鼓舞的进展是，单亲家庭不断增多，监狱人满为患。在健康问题方面，吸烟人数持续下降，但吸毒者的数量没有下降。
Crime has been declining steadily, with rare exceptions, for the past couple of decades. Since 1995, the murder rate has been reduced almost by half, and violent crime is down more than 43 percent. Although the United States is plagued by an epidemic of gun violence compared with almost any other country, firearms-related homicides — in keeping with other crime data — have declined sharply since the 1990s.
过去20年来，除极少数例外，犯罪一直稳步下降。自1995年以来，谋杀率已经减少了几乎一半，暴力犯罪下跌了43%以上。尽管相较于几乎任何其他国家，美国依然备受枪支暴力问题的困扰，但自上世纪90年代以来，与枪支有关的凶杀案急剧下降，一如其他犯罪数据。
Mr. Bennett and other social observers have analyzed many indicators, including educational and economic data. The state of the family is always central. Americans marry and divorce more than the citizens of any other industrialized nation.
贝内特和其他社会观察家分析了包括教育和经济数据在内的很多指标。家庭状况始终是核心。美国人的结婚率和离婚率比任何其他工业化国家的公民都要高。
One of the most troubling elements of the picture isn’t new. In 1965, a young, then relatively unknown Labor Department official named Daniel Patrick Moynihan wrote a report warning that almost a quarter of black Americans were born to single mothers; the number for whites was only 3 percent.
这幅图景中最令人不安的元素之一并非新事物。1965年，一位在美国劳工部任职，当时还没有多大名气，名叫丹尼尔·帕特里克·莫伊尼汉(Daniel Patrick Moynihan)的年轻人撰写了一份研究报告。他警告称，大约四分之一的美国黑人为单身母亲所生；白人的比率仅为3%。
Four and a half decades later, the rate for blacks has tripled to 72 percent of all births. The rate for whites has increased tenfold, to 29 percent, higher than the rate for blacks in the Moynihan report. (For Hispanics, it’s 53 percent.)
45年后，黑人的这项比率增至72%，是原来的三倍。白人的比率则足足增长了10倍，增至29%，高于莫伊尼汉当年报告中所述的黑人比率。拉美裔美国人的比率是53%。
It has been conclusively demonstrated that, on average, children raised without two parents do considerably worse educationally and economically. There is little consensus, however, on how to reverse the trend or even its underlying causes. A decade and a half ago, the current nominee to lead the Federal Reserve, Janet L. Yellen, and her husband, the economist and Nobel laureate George A. Akerlof, wrote a paper on “out-of-wedlock childbearing” that refuted conservative ideas and a few liberal ones. An effective policy response has been elusive.
已被最终证实的是，平均而言，单亲孩子的教育和经济状况相当糟糕，显著低于被两位家长抚养大的孩子。然而，对于如何扭转这种趋势，以及这种现象的根本原因是什么等问题，美国各界还缺乏共识。15年前，现在即将出任美联储主席的珍妮特·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)和她的丈夫、诺贝尔经济学奖得主乔治·阿克洛夫(George A. Akerlof)发表了一篇解析“非婚生育”的论文，反驳了保守派的看法和一些自由派观点。但有效的政策反应一直难觅踪迹。
Even so, an especially encouraging harbinger of change is the dramatic progress over the past two decades in reducing pregnancies and birthrates among teenagers. Although they remain higher than in most other countries, both rates have dropped about 40 percent in 20 years. This would surprise most Americans; in one survey, half of the respondents said teenage pregnancies and birth rates were still rising. This turnaround has been led by groups like the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy, which uses education and pressure on the entertainment industry and media and sidesteps polarizing ideological postures.
即便如此，一个特别令人鼓舞的预兆是，过去20年间，美国在减少青少年怀孕和分娩率方面已经取得了巨大进步。尽管这些比率依然高于大多数其他国家，但它们在20年内降低了大约40%。这或许会让大多数美国人感到惊讶；在一项调查中，一半的受访者认为少女怀孕和分娩率还在不断攀升。这一转变应归功于诸多团体持续不懈的努力。比如，全国防止少女意外怀孕运动(National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy)不断对青少年开展教育，向娱乐业和媒体施压，并避免发布容易引发分化的意识形态立场。
“The magic combination of less sex and more contraception has contributed to this national success story,” said Sarah Brown, the chief executive of the campaign. Teenagers are waiting longer to have sex, have fewer partners, use contraceptives more and, perhaps most important, “there is a growing social norm,” she said, “that teen pregnancy is not O.K.”
“减少性行为，增加避孕措施的神奇结合，促成了这样一个全国性的成功故事，”该组织首席执行官萨拉·布朗(Sarah Brown)说。青少年正在推迟发生首次性行为的时间，减少性伴侣，更多地使用避孕措施，或许最重要的是，“社会规范日益增强，”她说。“少女怀孕不再是一件没什么大不了的事情。”
The United States remains beset by difficulties, political, economic and cultural. Some of the key social trends, however, are more positive. To study them provides hope that the country isn’t, as one doomsayer declared in the 1990s, slouching toward Gomorrah.
美国依然被政治、经济和文化领域的种种困难所困扰。然而，一些关键的社会发展趋势正在转向更积极的一面。这些研究让我们看到了希望：这个国家并没有像一位灾难预言家在20世纪90年代所宣称的那样，正在无精打采地迈向蛾摩拉城（Gomorrah，《圣经》中因居民罪恶深重而被神毁灭的古城——译注）。