WELCH, W.Va. — Sharon Mills, a disabled nurse, long depended on other people’s kindness to manage her diabetes. She scrounged free samples from doctors’ offices, signed up for drug company discounts and asked for money from her parents and friends. Her church often helped, but last month used its charitable funds to help repair other members’ furnaces.
西弗吉尼亚州韦尔奇——残疾护士莎伦·米尔斯(Sharon Mills)过去长期依赖别人发善心来控制自己的糖尿病。她从医生的办公室里蹭免费的药物样品、注册了药品企业的折扣计划，还从父母和朋友那里借钱。她所在的教会常常伸出援手，但上个月，教会把慈善基金用到了修缮其他教友的暖炉上。
Ms. Mills, 54, who suffered renal failure last year after having irregular access to medication, said her dependence on others left her feeling helpless and depressed. “I got to the point when I decided I just didn’t want to be here anymore,” she said.
米尔斯的药物时断时续，这让她去年得了肾衰竭。现年54岁的米尔斯说，对他人的依赖让她感到无助与抑郁。“到了某个点，我决定不要再活下去了，”她说。
So when a blue slip of paper arrived in the mail this month with a new Medicaid number on it — part of the expanded coverage offered under the Affordable Care Act — Ms. Mills said she felt as if she could breathe again for the first time in years. “The heavy thing that was pressing on me is gone,” she said.
因此，当一张写着新的联邦医疗补助(Medicaid)号码的蓝色纸片本月出现在邮箱里的时候，米尔斯说，她感觉自己多年来终于第一次能喘上气来了。“压在我心头的大石头消失了，”她说。而这属于《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)扩大覆盖范围的一部分。
As health care coverage under the new law sputters to life, it is already having a profound effect on the lives of poor Americans. Enrollment in private insurance plans has been sluggish, but sign-ups for Medicaid, the federal insurance program for the poor, have surged in many states. Here in West Virginia, which has some of the shortest life spans and highest poverty rates in the country, the strength of the demand has surprised officials, with more than 75,000 people enrolling in Medicaid.
随着新法中的医保覆盖项目艰难地启动起来，它已对美国贫苦民众的生活产生了深远影响。私人保险计划的参保状况一直乏善可陈，但在许多州里，为穷人设立的联邦医疗补助项目却参保人数激增。西弗吉尼亚州的人均预期寿命处于全美最低之列，贫困率则排名靠前。在这里，有超过7.5万人新加入了联邦医疗补助，这样的强劲需求让官方颇为惊讶。
While many people who have signed up so far for private insurance through the new insurance exchanges had some kind of health care coverage before, recent studies have found, most of the people getting coverage under the Medicaid expansion were previously uninsured. In West Virginia, where the Democratic governor agreed to expand Medicaid eligibility, the number of uninsured people in the state has been reduced by about a third.
迄今已通过新设立的保险市场购买私人保险的人中，许多以前就已拥有某种医保，而近期的多项研究显示，在联邦医疗补助项目扩大时加入的人里，多数人过去并没有医保。在西弗吉尼亚州，民主党州长同意扩大联邦医疗补助的适用人群，因此无保险的人数已减少了三分之一左右。
Still, even among those who most need insurance, there has been resistance to signing up. President Obama — often blamed here in coal country for the industry’s decline — remains deeply unpopular. Recruiters trying to persuade people to enroll say they sometimes feel like drug peddlers. The people they approach often talk in hushed tones out of earshot of others.
不过，就算是在最需要保险的人中，对于参保也存在抵触。奥巴马总统在这里仍很不受欢迎——在产煤区，人们常将煤炭业的衰落归咎于他。试图劝说民众参保的推介人员表示，他们有时觉得自己跟毒贩子似的。他们接触的人往往会压低声音讲话，生怕别人听见。
Chad Webb, a shy 30-year-old who is enrolling people in Mingo County, said a woman at a recent event used biblical terms to disparage Mr. Obama as an existential threat to the nation. Mr. Webb said he thought to himself: “This man is not the Antichrist. He just wants you to have health insurance.”
30岁的查德·韦布(Chad Webb)正在明戈县劝人参保，有些羞涩的他说，一名女士在近期的集会上用圣经的词汇来斥责奥巴马威胁国家的存亡。韦布自问：“他又不是基督的敌人，不过是想让你们有医保。”
Eventually, though, people’s desperate need for insurance seems to be overcoming their distaste for the president. Rachelle Williams, 25, an uninsured McDonald’s worker from Mingo County, said she had refused to fill out insurance forms on a recent trip to the emergency room for a painful bout of kidney stones. “I wouldn’t do it,” she said. But when she got a letter in the mail saying she qualified for Medicaid, she signed up immediately.
虽说如此，人们对医保的极度渴求似乎最终战胜了对总统的反感。25岁的蕾切尔·威廉姆斯(Rachelle Williams)来自眀戈县，在麦当劳打工，没有参保，最近曾因肾结石疼痛发作而被送进了急诊室。她自称当时拒绝填医保表格。“我才不要，”她说。不过，当她接到一封信件，得知自己符合联邦医疗补助资格时，她马上就参加了。
Uninsured people tend to be sicker and to die younger than those with insurance, and experts have reasoned that coverage should give poor Americans a better chance to improve their health. But an influential study found that lack of access to medical care accounts for just 10 percent of premature deaths in the country, compared with the 40 percent from behavioral factors like smoking and eating unhealthful food. The rest is linked to genetics, and social and environmental factors.
比起参保的人，无医保人群一般身体更差、寿命更短。专家们也提出，参保会给贫困人口带来改善健康状况的更好机会。可是，一项颇具影响的研究发现，缺乏医疗仅贡献了美国早逝病例的10%，相比之下，吸烟及摄入不健康食物等行为因素则贡献了40%。其余的情况与基因、社会及环境因素有关。
A widely cited experiment in Oregon offered an early look at what happens when people suddenly get Medicaid coverage. Researchers found that physical health, like obesity and the prevalence of diabetes, did not change much. But mental health improved drastically, with instances of depression plummeting. Ms. Mills said the simple relief of having coverage had helped drive away her suicidal thoughts.
俄勒冈州进行的一项测试被广为引用，让人们初步看到突然加入联邦医疗补助计划的人有何变化。研究人员发现，他们的身体健康没有多大改进，比如肥胖症和糖尿病的普遍程度。但是，心理健康得到显著改善，抑郁症发作数量直线下降。米尔斯称，单是有了医保的解脱感就帮她打消了自杀的念头。
Welch is a tiny town in McDowell County, a remote patch of mountains dotted by coal mines and forests logged for timber. Life expectancy here for men is just 64 years — the lowest in the country, and even lower than in Pakistan. Rates of smoking and diabetes here are nearly double the national average, and almost half the men are obese.
麦克道尔县的韦尔奇是一座弹丸小镇，位于偏远山区，周围密布着煤矿和伐木林。这里的男性预期寿命仅为64岁，全美垫底，甚至不及巴基斯坦。吸烟率与糖尿病发病率几乎是全国平均水平的两倍；近一半男性患有肥胖症。
In communities like these, people often eat the cheapest, most convenient, food at hand.
在这样的社区里，人们往往吃的是手头最便宜、最方便的食物。
“Poverty is short-term thinking — what can I do today to survive,” said Sister Janet Peterworth, a charity worker in Mingo County who is enrolling people.
“贫困意味着短视思维——怎么做今天才能生存下去呢？”正在动员参保的眀戈县慈善工作者珍妮特·彼得沃思修女(Janet Peterworth)说。
It also costs more to live better. “Can people adopt middle-class health behaviors without being middle class?” said Adam Drewnowski, director of the Center for Public Health Nutrition at the University of Washington.
要想活得更好，花销也会更大。华盛顿大学公共卫生营养中心(Center for Public Health Nutrition)的主任亚当·德雷夫诺夫斯基(Adam Drewnowski)问道，“不属于中产阶级的人，能养成中产阶级的健康习惯吗？”
Lavetta Hutchinson, a nurse in McDowell County, is pessimistic about the law’s potential to improve health in the area. Lack of economic opportunity, low levels of education and the resulting despair have driven a raging drug epidemic and created a kind of fatalism.
麦克道尔县的护士拉韦塔·哈钦森(Lavetta Hutchinson)对医保法案改善该地区健康状况的前景持悲观态度。经济机会的匮乏、相当低的教育水平，以及由此产生的绝望感，驱使这里的吸毒率飙升，还催生了某种宿命论。
“People think they are going to live as long as they are going to live, and there’s nothing they can do to change it,” she said. “They don’t see the value of prevention.”
“大家觉得，该活多久就会活多久，做什么都无济于事，”她说。“他们看不到医学预防有什么价值。”
It remains to be seen how Medicaid coverage will work once millions more people across the country are in the system. Low reimbursement rates discourage specialists from taking Medicaid patients.
至于全美数百万人新加入联邦医疗补助后，会对该计划造成什么影响，这一点还有待观察。较低的报销比例让专科医生对治疗持联邦医疗补助的病人兴致不高。
But Gina Justice, a social worker with the Mingo County Diabetes Coalition, said many of her patients have to choose now between medicine and food, so access to critical medications through new coverage will be a lifeline.
不过，眀戈县糖尿病联盟(Mingo County Diabetes Coalition)的社工吉娜·贾斯蒂斯(Gina Justice)说，她的很多病人都不得不在求医与吃饭之间二选一，因此，通过新医保来获取关键药物将是他们的救生索。
“People tell us, ‘This is the food month,’ ” Ms. Justice said. “If you can take away that stress because now you’ve got a medical card, then you can focus on healthier eating that will help with these medical issues.”
“人们告诉我，‘这个月要吃饭，’”贾斯蒂斯说。“如果因为拿到联邦医疗补助卡而没有了这种压力，就能关注更健康的饮食，从而有助于应对这些医疗问题。”
Last week, Ms. Mills used her Medicaid number for the first time to fill a prescription. It was a Wednesday, and she walked into Walmart feeling good.
上周，米尔斯首次用医保号买了处方药。那是周三，她心情很好地走进了沃尔玛。