SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea and the United States announced on Friday that they have decided to deploy an advanced American missile defense system in the South, despite strong protests from China, which sees it as a threat to its own security.
韩国首尔——周五，韩国与美国宣布，双方决定在韩国部署一种先进的美国导弹防御系统，尽管中国将其视为对自身安全的威胁，提出了强烈的抗议。
The two allies agreed to the deployment of the so-called Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense system, or Thaad, to better protect South Korea and the United States military in the region from North Korea’s growing nuclear and ballistic missile capabilities, a senior Defense Ministry official, Ryu Jae-seung, said at a news conference.
韩国国防部高级官员柳济昇(Ryu Jae-seung)在新闻发布会上表示，两个盟国达成协议，准备部署末段高空区域防御系统（Terminal High-Altitude Area Defense，简称“萨德”），从而更好地保护两国在该地区的军事力量免受朝鲜不断增强的核能力和弹道导弹水平的威胁。
Seoul and Washington have been in talks for months about implementing the new system. Mr. Ryu said that officials from both nations were in the final stage of recommending a site for a Thaad missile base to their defense chiefs.
首尔与华盛顿就部署这一新系统展开了数月的协商。柳济昇称，两国官员目前处于向各自防长推荐“萨德”导弹基地选址的最终阶段。
China’s Foreign Ministry promptly denounced the plan, saying the system would harm China’s security and would not contribute to peace on the Korean Peninsula, Reuters reported.
根据路透社(Reuters)的报道，中国外交部立即对这一计划进行了谴责，声称该系统会损害中国的安全，不利于朝鲜半岛的和平。
Besides the objections from China, the new system was likely to face resistance from residents in whatever part of South Korea is selected for the base. Villagers and politicians from towns that have been mentioned as possible sites have said they will oppose it, fearing that strong electronic signals from the radar might be harmful to residents’ health, and that their towns would become an early target for North Korean missiles should war break out on the peninsula.
除了来自中国的抗议，美韩两国不论把这个新系统的部署地点选在韩国的什么地方，都有可能遭到当地居民的抵制。已被提及的部署备选地的民众和政客们说，他们会提出反对意见，因为担心来自雷达的高强度电子信号会损害居民的健康。他们还担心，如果朝鲜半岛爆发战争，这会让自己所在的城镇最先成为朝鲜导弹的目标。
“This is an important R.O.K-U.S. decision,” Gen. Vincent K. Brooks, the top commander of the American military in South Korea, said in a statement, using the acronym for the South’s formal name, the Republic of Korea. “North Korea’s continued development of ballistic missiles and weapons of mass destruction require the alliance to take this prudent, protective measure to bolster our layered and effective missile defense.”
“这是大韩民国和美国的重要决定，”驻韩美军最高指挥官文森特·K·布鲁克斯(Vincent K. Brooks)在一份声明中表示。大韩民国是韩国的正式称谓。“朝鲜一直在发展弹道导弹和大规模杀伤性武器，美韩联盟有必要采取这一谨慎的防护措施，增强我们的多层次高效导弹防御体系。”
The United States military emphasized that Thaad would “be focused solely on North Korea” and would contribute to a layered system enhancing the alliance’s existing missile defense capabilities against North Korean missile threats.
美国军方强调，“萨德”将“只针对朝鲜”，并成为一个多层次体系的一部分，让美韩联盟现有的应对朝鲜导弹威胁的防御能力得到增强。
South Korea agreed to consider the Thaad deployment after the North’s launching of a long-range rocket on Feb. 7, an event widely seen as a cover for developing a long-range ballistic nuclear missile. In March, Washington and Seoul established a joint task force to discuss details of possible deployment.
朝鲜于2月7日发射了一枚远程导弹，这一事件被外界普遍视为朝鲜研发远程弹道核导弹的幌子。随后，韩国同意考虑部署“萨德”。3月，华盛顿和首尔方面成立了联合特别小组，讨论与拟议中的部署事宜有关的细节。
South Korea’s military has said that Thaad will bolster its defense against North Korean missiles, but its political leaders have been reluctant to commit to it because of China’s strong objections.
韩国军方称“萨德”将增强其对朝鲜导弹的防御能力，不过由于中国强烈反对，韩国的政治领导人不太愿意部署这一系统。
They have expressed fear that the deployment might prompt China to move closer to North Korea as a buffer against the United States and South Korea, and that China might retaliate economically.
他们已经表达了担忧之情：部署“萨德”可能导致中国与朝鲜走得更近，将朝鲜当成防范美国和韩国的屏障；中国还有可能在经济上进行报复。
China is South Korea’s No. 1 trade partner and sends more tourists here than any other foreign country.
中国是韩国的头号贸易伙伴；此外，韩国的外国游客中，中国游客的比重最大。
China is particularly concerned about Thaad in South Korea because its powerful radar could give the United States military the ability to quickly detect and track missiles launched in China, analysts said. Beijing has feared that could strengthen American missile defense systems and weaken its own nuclear deterrent, though defense officials here said it would not make much difference to the American military.
分析人士称，中国之所以对“萨德”入韩尤为担心，是因为其强大的雷达将让美军有能力迅速检测和追踪中国境内发射的导弹。北京方面一直担心这会增强美国的导弹防御系统，消弱其自身的核威慑力。但韩国国防部官员称，这不会让美国的军事力量有太大改变。
The United States military already has a Thaad battery deployed on Guam and operates powerful radar in the region, as well as military satellites over China.
美国军方已经在关岛部署了一套萨德系统，在这一地区运行着强大的雷达设施，在中国上空也有军事卫星。
While United States policy makers have increasingly worried about North Korea’s attempts to develop a capability to deliver a nuclear warhead on an intercontinental ballistic missile, South Koreans have tended to be less concerned. For decades, they have lived under the shadow of North Korea’s ability to deliver catastrophic destruction: Seoul, the capital, lies within the range of thousands of North Korean rockets and artillery pieces along the inter-Korean border.
美国的政策制定者对朝鲜企图发展洲际弹道导弹搭载核弹头的能力日益感到担心，而韩国人似乎不太忧心于此。数十年来，他们一直生活在朝鲜有能力发起毁灭性打击的阴影中：朝鲜在朝韩边境部署了成千上万的火箭和火炮，韩国首都首尔位于射程之内。