WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel is stepping down under pressure, the first cabinet-level casualty of the collapse of President Obama’s Democratic majority in the Senate and the struggles of his national security team amid an onslaught of global crises.
华盛顿——美国国防部长查克·哈格尔在压力下辞职，他是奥巴马总统的民主党在参议院失去多数席位后、总统的国家安全团队在全球危机冲击下挣扎中的第一个内阁级别的损失。
The president, who is expected to announce Mr. Hagel’s resignation in a Rose Garden appearance on Monday, made the decision to ask his defense secretary — the sole Republican on his national security team — to step down last Friday after a series of meetings over the past two weeks, senior administration officials said.
奥巴马周一在白宫的玫瑰园宣布了哈格尔的辞职，美国政府高级官员说，总统在过去两周中开了一系列会议，之后于上周五做出让自己的国防部长辞职的决定，哈格尔是其国家安全团队中唯一的共和党人。
The officials described Mr. Obama’s decision to remove Mr. Hagel, 68, as a recognition that the threat from the Islamic State would require a different kind of skills than those that Mr. Hagel was brought on to employ. A Republican with military experience who was skeptical about the Iraq war, Mr. Hagel came in to manage the Afghanistan combat withdrawal and the shrinking Pentagon budget in the era of budget sequestration.
该高级官员把奥巴马让68岁的哈格尔离去的决定描述为，总统认识到来自伊斯兰国的威胁，需要用不同于哈格尔带到任上的那种能力来对付。哈格尔是一位有军事经验的共和党人，他对伊拉克战争持怀疑态度，他被任命为国防部长是为了管理将作战部队撤出阿富汗、以及在“自动减赤”时代五角大楼萎缩的预算。
But now “the next couple of years will demand a different kind of focus,” one administration official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. He insisted that Mr. Hagel was not fired, saying that the defense secretary initiated discussions about his future two weeks ago with the president, and that the two men mutually agreed that it was time for him to leave.
但目前的情况“需要在未来几年中有一个不同的重点，”政府一位官员说，该人要求不具名。他坚称，哈格尔没有被解雇，并说国防部长在两周前向总统提出就自己的未来展开讨论，他们两人达成共识，认为现在是哈格尔离开的时候。
But Mr. Hagel’s aides had maintained in recent weeks that he expected to serve the full four years as defense secretary. His removal appears to be an effort by the White House to show that it is sensitive to critics who have pointed to stumbles in the government’s early response to several national security issues, including the Ebola crisis and the threat posed by the Islamic State.
但哈格尔的助手在最近几周曾一直表示，他希望做完国防部长的四年任期。让他离任似乎是白宫对批评者做出理解表示的一种努力，批评者指出，政府对几个国家安全问题的早期反应不利，包括埃博拉危机和来自伊斯兰国的威胁。
Even before the announcement of Mr. Hagel’s removal, Obama officials were speculating on his possible replacement. At the top of the list are Michèle Flournoy, a former under secretary of defense; Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island and a former officer with the Army’s 82nd Airborne; and Ashton B. Carter, a former deputy secretary of defense.
甚至在宣布哈格尔将离任之前，奥巴马的官员们就在猜测可能由谁来取代之。排在名单前边的是曾任国防部副部长的米歇尔·弗卢努瓦(Michèle Flournoy)；罗得岛州民主党参议员、曾任陆军第82空降师军官的杰克·瑞德(Jack Reed)；以及国防部前副部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)。
A respected former senator who struck a friendship with Mr. Obama when they were both critics of the Iraq war from positions on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Mr. Hagel has nonetheless had trouble penetrating the tight team of former campaign aides and advisers who form Mr. Obama’s closely knit set of loyalists. Senior administration officials have characterized him as quiet during cabinet meetings; Mr. Hagel’s defenders said that he waited until he was alone with the president before sharing his views, the better to avoid leaks.
哈格尔是一位受人尊敬的前参议员，他和奥巴马在参议院外交关系委员会共事时，都是伊拉克战争的批评者，两人因此建立了友谊，尽管如此，哈格尔仍很难进入奥巴马忠诚者的亲密圈子，那是一个由前竞选助手和顾问组成的紧密团队。政府高级官员称哈格尔在内阁会议上表现沉默，为哈格尔辩护的人则说，他在等待单独与总统在一起的机会来阐述自己的观点，这样能更好地避免信息泄漏。
Whatever the case, Mr. Hagel struggled to fit in with Mr. Obama’s close circle and was viewed as never gaining traction in the administration after a bruising confirmation fight among his old Senate colleagues, during which he was criticized for seeming tentative in his responses to sharp questions.
无论情况究竟如何，哈格尔难以进入奥巴马的亲密圈子，并被视为从未能与政府磨合，他的任命确认也是一场与自己在参议院老同事的激烈斗争，其间，他被批评在回答尖锐问题时似乎含糊其辞。
He never really shed that pall after arriving at the Pentagon, and in the past few months he has largely ceded the stage to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, who officials said initially won the confidence of Mr. Obama with his recommendation of military action against the Islamic State.
他进入五角大楼后，一直没能真正摆脱确认听证的阴影，在过去的几个月里，他已经在很大程度上让位于参谋长联席会议主席马丁·E·邓普西上将(Gen. Martin E.Dempsey)，官员说，邓普西最初建议对伊斯兰国采取军事行动，赢得了奥巴马的信任。
In Mr. Hagel’s less than two years on the job, his detractors said he struggled to inspire confidence at the Pentagon in the manner of his predecessors, especially Robert M. Gates. But several of Mr. Obama’s top advisers over the past few months have also acknowledged privately that the president did not want another high-profile defense secretary in the mold of Mr. Gates, who went on to write a memoir of his years with Mr. Obama in which he sharply criticized the president. Mr. Hagel, they said, in many ways was exactly the kind of defense secretary whom the president, after battling the military during his first term, wanted.
在哈格尔担任国防部长不到两年的时间里，其批评者说，他很难在五角大楼激发人们的信心，不像前任国防部长、尤其是罗伯特·M·盖茨(Robert M. Gates)那样。但奥巴马的几名高级顾问在过去几个月里也私下承认，总统不想再有一位像盖茨那样高调的国防部长，盖茨后来在回忆录中写了与奥巴马共事的几年，尖锐地批评了总统。这些高级顾问说，在总统的第一个任期里多次与军方较量之后，哈格尔在很多方面正是奥巴马想要的那种国防部长。
Mr. Hagel, for his part, spent his time on the job largely carrying out Mr. Obama’s stated wishes on matters like bringing back American troops from Afghanistan and trimming the Pentagon budget, with little pushback. He did manage to inspire loyalty among enlisted soldiers and often seemed at his most confident when talking to troops or sharing wartime experiences as a Vietnam veteran.
就哈格尔本人来说，他在任上的工作在很大程度上是贯彻奥巴马公开表达的愿望，比如把美国军队从阿富汗撤出，削减五角大楼的预算，几乎从不表示异议。他的确做到了激发应征入伍士兵的信心，而且常常似乎是在与部队交谈时、或与他们分享自己的越南作战经历时，表现得最自信。
But Mr. Hagel has often had problems articulating his thoughts — or administration policy — in an effective manner, and has sometimes left reporters struggling to describe what he has said in news conferences. In his side-by-side appearances with both General Dempsey and Secretary of State John Kerry, Mr. Hagel, a decorated Vietnam veteran and the first former enlisted combat soldier to be defense secretary, has often been upstaged.
但哈格尔在有效地阐述自己的想法、或政府的政策时经常出问题，有时候，记者很难描述他在新闻发布会上说了什么。在他与邓普西和国务卿约翰·克里同台出现时，越战老兵、第一位由应征入伍的前作战士兵成为国防部长的哈格尔，常常被抢了风头。