WASHINGTON — Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter said Sunday that Iraqi forces had demonstrated “no will to fight” against the Islamic State, blaming them for a retreat that led to the terrorist group’s victory in capturing the Iraqi city of Ramadi.
华盛顿——国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)周日表示，从伊拉克部队的表现来看，他们根本“无意对抗”伊斯兰国（Islamic State，又称ISIS或ISIL），卡特还谴责了他们的一次撤退行动，称其导致伊斯兰国成功占领了伊拉克城市拉马迪。
While that critical assessment of Iraqi security forces has been voiced in Congress and by policy research institutes, Mr. Carter’s remarks on CNN’s “State of the Union” were some of the administration’s strongest language to date about Iraq’s repeated inability to hold and take back territory from the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
尽管国会和政策研究机构曾对伊拉克安全部队表示批评，但卡特在CNN《美国国情》(State of the Union)节目中的言论，可谓政府对伊拉克军队采取的最强硬措辞，这支军队一再表明它无力据守或从伊斯兰国手中夺回失地。
“They were not outnumbered. In fact, they vastly outnumbered the opposing force and yet they failed to fight and withdrew from the site,” he said. “That says to me and, I think, to most of us, that we have an issue with the will of the Iraqis to fight ISIL and defend themselves.”
“他们的人数并非处于劣势。实际上，他们的人数远远超过了敌对武装，但还是没能与之对抗，而是撤退了，”他说。“我认为，在我以及我们当中的大多数人看来，伊拉克对抗ISIL和进行自我防卫的意愿存在问题。”
Mr. Carter said American and allied airstrikes had been “effective,” and reiterated the Obama administration’s opposition to sending American ground troops to work alongside Iraqis on the front lines to offer more accurate guidance for bombing.
卡特说，美国和多国联盟的空袭一直“颇有成效”，他还重申，奥巴马政府反对派遣美国地面部队去前线与伊拉克人并肩作战，以便做出更精确的轰炸引导。
Some members of Congress, including Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, have called on President Obama to authorize American troops to accompany Iraqi forces on the battlefield to call in specific locations for bombing.
包括亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)在内的一些国会成员都曾向奥巴马总统发出呼吁，要他批准美国部队前往战场配合伊拉克部队，以确定实施轰炸的地点。
The administration is focused on continuing to bolster the Iraqi forces, who will ultimately win or lose the fight, Mr. Carter said.
卡特说，政府的工作重心是继续提高伊拉克部队的战斗力，在这场战斗中，他们最后不是赢，就是输。
“If there comes a time when we have to change the kinds of support we give, we will make that recommendation,” Mr. Carter said. “But what happened in Ramadi was a failure of the Iraqi forces to fight, and so our efforts now are devoted to providing their ground forces with the equipment, the training, and encouraging their will to fight so that our campaign enabling them can be successful — both in defeating ISIL and keeping ISIL defeated in a sustained way.”
“如果到了不得不改变我们所提供的支持的时候，我们就会提出那种建议，”卡特说。“但是，拉马迪的问题在于伊拉克部队没能投入战斗，所以我们目前的工作关注的是为他们的地面部队提供设备、训练，并鼓励他们提高斗志，因此，我们为了提高他们的战斗力所采取的行动可能会取得成功——不管是打败ISIL，还是对ISIL保持持续性的压制，都是如此。”
The comments come as the Islamic State appears to be surging, tightening its grip on Anbar Province in Iraq and parts of Syria after American and Iraqi officials last month highlighted the group’s setbacks.
在卡特发表这番言论之时，伊斯兰国似乎正在发展壮大。他们加强了对安巴尔省以及叙利亚部分地区的控制。而美国和伊拉克官员上个月还曾着重指出该组织遭到的几场挫败。
Mr. McCain, who is chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, on Sunday repeated his call to send American ground troops, including Special Operations forces, into Iraq.
周日，参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)主席麦凯恩再次提出，应该派特种作战部队等美国地面部队前往伊拉克。
“We need to have a strategy,” he said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “There is no strategy. And anybody that says that there is I’d like to hear what it is. Because it certainly isn’t apparent now.”
“我们需要一个战略，”他在CBS的节目《面对国民》(Face the Nation)中说。“现在是没有战略的。如果谁说有，我倒想听听是什么战略。因为它目前显然并不明显。”
Representative Mac Thornberry, the Texas Republican who heads the House Armed Services Committee, spoke on the ABC program “This Week” and emphasized the need for more and better intelligence.
德克萨斯州共和党众议员、众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)主席迈克·索恩伯里(Mac Thornberry)在ABC的节目《本周》(This Week)中发言，强调需要进行更多、更好的情报工作。
“The other thing we’ve got to do is improve our intelligence capability,” he said. “We, I think, know less today than we knew five or six years ago about what terrorists around the world are doing for a variety of reasons, but the key way to know what they’re doing, to prevent them from getting a nuclear, chemical, biological weapon, is to augment our intelligence capability and then you’ve got to act.”
“我们要做的另一件事，就是提高我们的情报能力，”他说。“我认为，对于世界各地的恐怖分子基于各种原因所采取的行动，我们现在的了解不如五六年前多，但是要了解他们的行动，阻止他们获得核武器、化学武器和生物武器，关键就在于提高我们的情报能力，然后你就要开展行动。”