The new American ambassador to China, Max Baucus, got off to a fast start on his first day on the job in Beijing. Early Tuesday, he visited the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to present a copy of his credentials, a formality that allowed him to meet with journalists at the United States Embassy in the afternoon.
美国新任驻华大使马克斯·鲍卡斯(Max Baucus)刚到北京后的第一天，就马上开始了工作。周二上午，他拜访了外交部，递交了一份备份国书，办了这个官方手续之后，他得以于下午在美国大使馆与记者见面。
In brief remarks, Mr. Baucus, a former Democratic senator from Montana, said his first goal would be to strengthen the economic relationship between China and the United States and ensure a “level playing field” that benefited American workers. He also said he would seek to enhance respect for human rights, and promote strong people-to-people ties. The relationship between the United States and China is so important, he said, “We simply must get it right.”
蒙大拿州前民主党参议员鲍卡斯在一个简短讲话中说，他的第一个目的将是加强中美之间的经济联系，并确保一个能让美国工人从中受益的“公平竞争环境”。他还说，他将寻求加强对人权的尊重，并促进两国人民之间的关系。他说，中美关系如此之重要，“我们必须将其处理好。”
Mr. Baucus has long been interested in the United States-China trade relationship, and has made it clear that he will be an advocate for American companies that complain about unfair access to the Chinese market. Last year, he invited the Chinese ambassador to the United States, Cui Tiankai, to Montana in an effort to overcome Chinese restrictions on the import of American beef.
中美贸易关系一直是鲍卡斯感兴趣的问题，他曾明确表示，他将为那些抱怨不能公平地进入中国市场的美国公司倡导权益。去年，他曾邀请中国驻美大使崔天凯去蒙大拿州做客，以期解除中国对进口美国牛肉的限制。
Mr. Baucus said he first became interested in China when he hitchhiked around the world during his college years and visited Hong Kong. During a 36-year career in the Senate, he said he made his first visit to mainland China in 1993 and made his last visit in 2010. He said as a man who likes to get out of the office, he aspires to visit every province of China.
鲍卡斯说，他第一次对中国感兴趣，是在大学期间搭车周游世界时，那次旅行让他去了香港。他说，在担任参议员的36年里，他曾在1993年第一次来中国大陆访问，最后一次访问大陆是在2010年。他说，他是一个不喜欢待在办公室的人，希望能去中国的每一个省看看。
Mr. Baucus arrived Monday in Beijing, three days ahead of Michelle Obama, who with her daughters, Malia and Sasha, and her mother, Marian Robinson, will be visiting Beijing, Xi’an and Chengdu on a weeklong trip that will combine sightseeing and diplomacy. Mrs. Obama will speak to students at two high schools, visit the Forbidden City as the guest of China’s first lady, Peng Liyuan, and take in the pandas in Chengdu.
鲍卡斯周一抵达北京，先于米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)3天，米歇尔将与她的两个女儿马莉娅(Malia)和萨莎(Sasha)、以及她的母亲玛丽昂·鲁滨逊(Marion Robinson)一起，来北京、西安和成都进行为期一周的观光和外交访问。奥巴马夫人将在两所高中向学生发表演讲，并作为中国第一夫人彭丽媛的客人参观故宫，还将去成都看大熊猫。
So that he can participate in some of Mrs. Obama’s public appointments, Mr. Baucus is expected to present his official credentials to President Xi Jinping in a formal ceremony at the Great Hall of the People before her arrival in Beijing.
为了参加奥巴马夫人的一些公开活动，鲍卡斯预计会在总统夫人到达北京之前，在人民大会堂的一次官方仪式上，向中国国家主席习近平正式递交国书。