Angeles P. Barberena has always tried to follow the United States’ immigration laws. She dutifully filed her petition to become a resident, complied with the requirements and paid her taxes and fees.
安赫莱斯·P·巴韦雷纳(Angeles P. Barberena)一直努力遵守美国的移民法律。她按规定递交申请书，希望成为美国居民，并遵循相关要求，缴纳税款和费用。
That was 17 years ago. Ms. Barberena, who is from Mexico, is still waiting. Her file is inching through a backlog, and she has several years to go before she will receive the green card that will make her a permanent resident.
这是17年前的事了。来自墨西哥的巴韦雷纳仍在等待。她的材料在堆积如山的文件队列中缓慢前行，她还得等好几年时间才能拿到一张绿卡，到那时，她才会成为一名永久居民。
As Congress debates an overhaul of the immigration system, Ms. Barberena often feels like yelling with frustration. “It’s been so long and we did everything by the rule,” she said, speaking from her home near Nashville. “Now it seems everything is about illegal immigrants and nothing is about us.”
在国会就全面改革移民体系进行辩论的时刻，巴韦雷纳常常沮丧地想要大声呐喊。“我们已经等了那么久，按规定做了所有该做的事，”她在纳什维尔附近的家中说道。“现在，似乎一切讨论都是关于非法移民的，什么都和我们没关系。”
While stark differences between the Senate and the Republican-controlled House of Representatives have centered on border security and a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants, another major issue is snagged in the dispute: the plight of more than 4.4 million legal immigrants like Ms. Barberena who are languishing in a broken system.
目前，参议院和共和党控制的众议院在相关问题上存在尖锐分歧，当双方的焦点集中在边境安全和非法移民获取公民身份的途径上时，另一项重大议题却因此受阻：像巴韦雷纳这样的440多万合法移民正进退两难。在这样一个无序的体系里，他们苦苦挣扎。
Immigrants from some countries — particularly China, India, Mexico and the Philippines — can wait a decade or more to get their visas after approvals. Most foreigners are waiting outside the United States, but many — at least hundreds of thousands — live here on temporary visas or work permits.
来自一些国家的移民，特别是中国、印度、墨西哥和菲律宾，他们可能会在获批后等上十年或更久才能拿到绿卡。大多数外国人都在美国以外等待，但至少有几十万人持临时签证或工作许可生活在美国。
A broad bill the Senate passed in June includes ambitious measures to eliminate green card backlogs and create a program based mainly on education and job skills to expand future legal immigration. House Republicans have made it clear they will not take up that bill. Instead, Speaker John A. Boehner said the House would handle immigration in “bite-size chunks” over the coming months.
参议院在6月份通过了一个涉及面极广的法案，囊括了一些雄心勃勃的举措，其中包括消除积压的绿卡申请，并创建一个程序，根据申请人的教育程度和工作技能来增加未来合法移民的人数。众议院共和党人已明确表示，他们不会接受这一法案。并且，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)表示，在未来几个月里，众议院将“细嚼慢咽”地处理移民问题。
None of several smaller measures recently approved by House committees deal with fixing the visa system. For many House conservatives, the increase in legal immigration under the Senate plan is nearly as objectionable as the promise of citizenship for immigrants here illegally.
近期，众议院相关委员会通过的几个较小型法案都未涉及签证体系的改进。对于许多众议院保守派人士来说，依据参议院的方案来增加合法移民的人数，几乎和承诺为非法移民提供公民身份一样难以接受。
As the overhaul becomes uncertain, so do the prospects of Eduardo de Souza, a college soccer coach from Brazil working in Virginia who has, like Ms. Barberena, been waiting more than a decade to become a permanent resident.
随着改革前景变得不明确，爱德华多·德索萨(Eduardo de Souza)的未来也一样。他来自巴西，是弗吉尼亚一所大学的足球教练。和巴韦雷纳一样，他为了成为永久居民也已等了十多年。
“What is the government going to do for those people who are doing the right thing?” Mr. de Souza asked.
德索萨问道，“政府对那些依法行事的人都在做些什么？”
The backlogs swelled because of a longstanding mismatch in immigration law between the number of visas available and the much larger number of foreigners who qualify for them, especially those applying based on family ties to American citizens and permanent residents. Congress has imposed caps on the number of visas issued to each country each year.
申请文件堆积如山是因为移民法中存在已久的一个矛盾。相对于数量有限的绿卡名额，有资格获得绿卡的外国人人数要多得多，特别是那些依据与美国公民和永久居民的家庭关系而提出申请的人很多。国会依据申请人的国籍，设定了每年签证发放数量的上限。 The 1,192 pages of the Senate bill include a little-noticed requirement, or “trigger,” linked to the visa logjam: all backlogs of legal applicants must be cleared within 10 years before any immigrants who had been here illegally can obtain green cards, the pivotal step toward citizenship.
参议院那份1192页的移民法案包括了一项与积压签证申请相关的少有人注意的规定，或者说是“触发条件”：在任何非法留美移民获得绿卡之前，必须在10年内清理所有积压的合法申请。绿卡是通向美国公民身份的关键一步。
To accomplish that, any foreigners like Ms. Barberena who have been waiting more than five years for green cards would become eligible for visas immediately. The immigration authorities would devise a formula to issue visas for everyone in line over seven years, giving priority to those who waited longest. Under the Senate plan, Ms. Barberena could receive her green card within months.
要实现这一目标，任何像巴韦雷纳这样等候绿卡超过五年的外国人，应该会立刻具有获得签证的资格。移民当局会制定一种方案，向所有等候超过七年的申请人发放绿卡，并优先考虑那些等候时间最长的申请人。根据参议院的计划，巴韦雷纳可能在数月内就能领到她的绿卡。
Ms. Barberena has not had time to study the details of the proposals before Congress. She is working to keep her family afloat in a job with irregular hours at an upscale food market in a Nashville suburb.
巴韦雷纳还没有时间仔细研究正在国会审议的法案细节。她在纳什维尔郊区的一家高档食品超市打零工，靠这个来维持家庭开支。
A supermarket is not where Ms. Barberena, now 56, thought she would be at this stage in life. After completing undergraduate studies in chemical engineering at one of Mexico’s best universities, she led a comfortable middle-class life in Mexico City.
现在56岁的巴韦雷纳从没想到过，在人生的这个阶段，她竟然会在一家超级市场工作。巴韦雷纳在墨西哥一家数一数二的大学完成了本科学业，主修化学工程，毕业后她一直在墨西哥城过着舒适的中产阶级生活。
But she left in 1995 with her husband, two small sons and a sense of desperation. A neighbor’s daughter had been abducted, bringing an epidemic of kidnappings within reach of her own family.
但是1995年，她和丈夫以及两名年幼的儿子满怀绝望地离开了。那时，先是有一位邻居的女儿遭到绑架，随后在她家所在的区域内，类似事件频频发生。
“I lived in panic because I did not have any way to protect my children,” Ms. Barberena said.
“我没有任何办法保护我的孩子们，我活在恐惧之中，”巴韦雷纳说。
In 1996, her father, a naturalized American citizen, presented a green card petition for Ms. Barberena, his married adult child. And the wait began.
1996年，她已入美国籍的父亲为自己的成年已婚女儿巴韦雷纳提出了绿卡申请。等待便开始了。
Ms. Barberena regularly checked a State Department bulletin that advises applicants when they can expect their visas. As of this month, the authorities are issuing visas to Mexicans in Ms. Barberena’s category who applied three years before she did: in 1993.
巴韦雷纳会定期查看美国国务院的一份公报，其中会通告申请人他们何时会拿到签证。截至本月，移民当局向巴韦雷纳所属类别的墨西哥申请人发放的签证，申请时间是1993年，早她三年。
“No wonder my nerves are shot,” she said.
“这就是为什么我觉得没法再忍了，”她说。
But before Congress gives any help to illegal immigrants, Ms. Barberena said, she wants her family to become citizens first.
但是，巴韦雷纳表示，在国会能给与非法移民任何帮助以前，她希望她们一家人能首先成为美国公民。
Mr. de Souza agrees. He played soccer professionally in Brazil, and first came to the United States in 1999. Since then he has completed a master’s degree in education and worked his way up to become associate head coach at Longwood University, a state institution in Virginia. In 2011, two years after he started there, the men’s soccer team won its conference championship.
德索萨也这么认为。他以前在巴西是一位职业足球运动员，最早在1999年来到美国。自那时起，他已经完成了教育学的硕士学位，并通过努力最终成为了弗吉尼亚州公立院校朗伍德大学(Longwood University)的助理总教练。2011年，在他加入两年后，学校的男子足球队就赢得了联盟赛的冠军。
In the summer he teaches soccer camp with an ambition to train more young athletes so they will take up his game. With his last temporary visa set to expire in 2015, the university is helping him apply for permanent residency based on his professional skills, but his wait could be many more years. Under the Senate bill, Mr. de Souza would get his green card immediately — if a similar measure is approved by the House.
夏天，他会在足球训练营教课，希望培养更多年轻运动员从事足球运动。他的临时签证将于2015年到期，学校正在帮他根据他的专业技能申请永久居留，但是他可能还需要等很多年。根据参议院的法案，德索萨将能立即拿到绿卡——如果一项相似的法案能在众议院得到通过的话。
“I have been doing it legally all the way, just what a regular American citizen would do,” Mr. de Souza said. But, he said, “I don’t see any advantage for the legal immigrant right now.”
“我一直都是按照法律办事的，美国公民怎么做我就怎么做，”德索萨说。但他表示，“现在，我看不到合法移民有任何好处。”