New federal rules aimed at blocking the sale of ivory to protect endangered elephants are causing an uproar among musicians, antiques dealers, gun collectors and thousands of others whose ability to sell, repair or travel with legally acquired ivory objects will soon be prohibited.
旨在抑制象牙贸易、从而保护濒危大象的联邦法规引发了轩然大波，反对者包括音乐家、古董交易商、枪支收藏者，以及数以千计将被禁止销售、修复或运输合法象牙制品的其他人。
Vince Gill, the guitarist and Grammy Award winner, who owns some 40 classic Martin guitars featuring ivory pegs and bridges, said he is worried now about taking his instruments overseas.
曾获得格莱美奖(Grammy Award)的吉他演奏家文斯·吉尔(Vince Gill)拥有约40把经典的马丁(Martin)吉他，吉他上的弦钮和琴桥都由象牙制成。他说，他现在担心自己还能不能把乐器带出国。
Floyd Sarisohn, a lawyer from Commack, N.Y., said he will be blocked from auctioning any of the hundreds of chess sets with antique ivory pieces he has spent decades collecting.
纽约州科马克的律师弗洛伊德·萨利索恩(Floyd Sarisohn)说，他将被禁止拍卖自己的数百副国际象棋，这些棋是他花了几十年才收集到的，棋子皆为古董象牙所制。
Mike Clark, owner of Collectors Firearms in Houston, said he fears he might have to “gouge the ivory inlay” from scores of commemorative handguns and rifles that long predate the ban, if he wants to sell them.
麦克·克拉克(Mike Clark)是休斯顿武器店“藏家枪械”(Collectors Firearms)的老板。他说，如果要继续做生意的话，他担心自己可能得把几十把有纪念价值的手枪和步枪上“镶嵌的象牙装饰抠掉”了。这些枪支的诞生可比这些禁令早多了。
“I’m blindsided, as are all of us, by this regulatory change,” said Lark Mason, a New York auctioneer who has specialized in antique ivory for three decades. “We all want to save elephants,” he said, but he questioned how “denying the sale of an 18th-century snuff bottle,” among millions of other decorative antiques, will accomplish that end.
“我，我们所有人，都被这个法规的变动弄得措手不及，”从事古董象牙拍卖工作长达30年的纽约拍卖师拉克·梅森(Lark Mason)说。“我们都愿意拯救大象，”他说，但他不认为“禁止销售18世纪的鼻烟壶，以及数百万其他古董装饰”会对这项事业有任何帮助。
In simple terms, the new regulations ban Americans from importing and, with narrow exceptions, exporting any item that contains even a sliver of ivory. The rules do not ban private ownership, but they outlaw interstate sales of ivory items, unless they meet what sellers describe as impossible criteria.
简单地说，新的规定禁止美国人进口和出口任何包含哪怕一丁点象牙成分的物品，只有出口时有少数例外情况。这些规定并不禁止私人拥有象牙，但是禁止州际象牙制品买卖，除非符合一些特定标准。而销售者说，这些标准根本不可能达到。
Officials with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, which plans to have the new regulations in place in June, said drastic measures are needed to help curb the slaughter of African elephants. The animals now number a scant half-million, and conservationists say as many as 35,000 are dying annually to feed the global black-market in tusks.
美国鱼类和野生动物管理局(United States Fish and Wildlife Service)的官员们打算从今年6月份开始实施这些新规定。他们说，必须采取严厉手段才能遏制对非洲大象的猎杀。目前非洲只剩下50万头大象，而且动物保护人士说，每年有多达3.5万头大象死亡，流入全球象牙黑市。
“The U.S. market is contributing to the crisis now threatening the African elephant,” the Fish and Wildlife Service director, Daniel M. Ashe, told Congress last month. Wildlife officials say only China has a larger legal market for ivory. As for the black market, over the past 25 years, federal agents say, they have seized six tons of ivory smuggled into in the United States.
该局局长丹尼尔·M·阿什(Daniel M. Ashe)上个月告诉国会，“美国市场是非洲大象面临危机的罪魁祸首之一。”野生动物管理机构的官员们说，美国合法象牙市场的规模仅次于中国。至于黑市，联邦特工称，过去25年，他们共缴获六吨走私进入美国的象牙。
Still, Craig Hoover, chief of the Wildlife Trade and Conservation branch at the Fish and Wildlife Service, said officials are reviewing adjustments to the regulations. They sought input Thursday at a meeting in Washington, where the give and take was impassioned.
尽管如此，该局下属的野生动物贸易和保护部门负责人克雷格·胡佛(Craig Hoover)说，官员们正在审议对这些规定做出的修订。他们周四在华盛顿召开会议征询意见，会上的讨价还价十分激烈。
Kimball M. Sterling of Johnson City, Tenn., who deals in antique ivory walking sticks, said some of his biggest clients “are in their closets crying” because the multimillion-dollar collections they had hoped to bequeath to their heirs are on the verge of becoming worthless.
田纳西州约翰逊城的金博尔·M·斯特林(Kimball M. Sterling)从事古董象牙拐杖的交易。他说，他的一些大客户正“坐在家里哭呢”，因为他们原本价值数百万美元的藏品就要一文不值了，他们本打算把这些东西留给后代。
In an interview before the hearing, Mr. Hoover said, “I am not in any way trying to diminish the fact that this is going to have an impact on many different industries.” During the session, Bryan Arroyo, assistant for international affairs at the wildlife service, said, “I regret that the ban is creating a lot of anger in some quarters.”
胡佛在听证会前接受采访时说，“我肯定不会否认，这项政策将对许多不同的产业造成影响。”在会上，鱼类和野生动物管理局的国际事务助理布赖恩·阿罗约(Bryan Arroyo)说，“这项禁令在一些领域引发了极大不满，我对此感到遗憾。”
Even when sales are still allowed, the new regulations would bring tremendous change to the legal market for ivory, which currently allows for regulated sales of items that are at least 100 years old. For example, those looking to acquire ivory from past legal stockpiles to restore antiques, make pistol grips, or otherwise refurbish items will no longer be able to do so.
就是在销售仍然被允许的情况下，新法规也将给合法象牙市场带来重大变革。目前的规定允许年份至少达100年的象牙制品在受监管的情况下交易。举例来说，希望从过去的合法库存中购买象牙来修复古董、制作手枪握把，或者翻新物件的那些人，将不能再这样做。
An unusual assortment of trade groups opposes the regulations, including the National Association of Music Makers, the Art and Antiques Dealers League of America and the National Rifle Association. The critics say the rules are confusing, unfair and should be rewritten to account for ivory that came into the country long ago.
新法规的反对者出人意料，包括各种行业团体，比如全美音乐制作者协会(National Association of Music Makers)、美国艺术与古董交易商联盟(Art and Antiques Dealers League of America)和美国步枪协会(National Rifle Association)。批评人士称，这些规定令人困惑、有欠公允，应当做出修改以妥善处置很久以前入境的象牙制品。
To illustrate the confusion ahead, experts gave the example of what would happen under the new regulations if someone attempted the interstate sale of a 100-year-old Steinway piano with ivory keys. Such a sale has long been permissible, because the piano qualified as an antique that contained ivory imported long before the mid-1970s, when officials began proscribing the material.
为了证明即将到来的困扰，专家们举出了跨州销售一架象牙键的百年施坦威(Steinway)钢琴的例子。长期以来，此类销售都被允许进行，因为这架钢琴符合相关规定，属于上世纪70年代中期官方开始禁止象牙材料之前就已进口的古董。
But the new regulations would prohibit such a sale unless the owner could prove the ivory in the keys had entered the country through one of 13 American ports authorized to sanction ivory goods.
可是，新规定将禁止此交易，除非所有者可以证明，琴键中的象牙是通过有权批准象牙制品的13座美国港口入境的。