WASHINGTON — Weeks before a Black Hawk helicopter lifted off in the dying light of eastern Afghanistan, carrying with it an American soldier who had spent five years in the hands of the Taliban, American officials grew increasingly worried that Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl’s life might be in jeopardy.
华盛顿——一架黑鹰直升机在阿富汗东部渐渐黯淡的暮光中起飞，载着一名在塔利班手中扣押了五年的美军士兵。此事发生前的几周，美国官员越来越担心，鲍·贝里达尔中士(Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl)的生命可能面临危险。
A video produced by his captors months earlier had shown him weak and dazed, and there was a growing fear that the Taliban — frustrated by the glacial pace of hostage negotiations — were beginning to rethink the value of continuing to hold an American prisoner.
俘虏他的人在数月前制作的一则视频显示，他身体虚弱、精神恍惚，而且美国越来越担心，塔利班对人质谈判的缓慢进展感到愤怒，正开始重新考虑继续扣押一名美军俘虏的价值。
Officials from Qatar, who had long been the middlemen in the deliberations for a deal that would free Sergeant Bergdahl in exchange for five Taliban prisoners, were issuing warnings that the American prisoner’s days could be numbered, setting in motion a flurry of secret discussions on two continents about how to choreograph a battlefield exchange of prisoners.
在协商以五名塔利班囚徒交换贝里达尔的交易过程中，卡塔尔官员长期扮演着中间人的角色。此时，他们发出警告，贝里达尔恐怕时日不多了。这引发了在两个大陆进行的一连串秘密协商，讨论的是如何安排在战场上交换俘虏。
Issues that had bitterly divided the Obama administration — about the wisdom of the prisoner swap and the risks of releasing a group of aging Taliban commanders from Guantánamo Bay — were swept aside in the rush to secure Sergeant Bergdahl’s release. At the same time, much of the fate of the administration’s strategy was now in the hands of Qatar, the tiny wealthy emirate that in recent years has used its riches to amass great influence in the Middle East and Central Asia. President Obama spoke by telephone with the emir of Qatar to finalize the terms of the deal, and delegates from Qatar were quietly sent to Guantánamo Bay in late May — their presence a surprise to those who saw them in the dining facility at the island military prison.
为了尽快确保贝里达尔获释，曾让奥巴马政府内部产生激烈分歧的议题被放到了一边。这些问题包括：交换俘虏是否明智？将关押在关塔那摩基地的一群逐渐老去的塔利班指挥官释放出去的风险如何？与此同时，奥巴马政府策略的命运，在很大程度上落到了卡塔尔人的手中。卡塔尔是个面积狭小的富裕酋长国，近年来利用其财富在中东与中亚地区累积了巨大的影响力。奥巴马总统亲自与卡塔尔埃米尔通电话，最后敲定了协议的条款，于是卡塔尔代表于5月底悄然来到关塔那摩。他们的出现，让那些在岛上军事监狱的餐厅目睹此情此景的人们颇为意外。
But the endgame, described in interviews with more than a dozen American and foreign officials, has also come under fierce attack from members of Congress, angry they were not consulted about the prisoner swap and critical of the decision to trade five Taliban commanders for an American soldier they have labeled a deserter.
通过对十几名国内外官员的采访，此事的结局得以呈现。不过，这一结果也开始受到一些联邦议员的猛烈抨击。他们愤怒于交换俘虏一事未咨询国会的意见，同时批评这一决定本身——用五名塔利班指挥官交换一名他们眼中的美军逃兵。
In the few days since Mr. Obama made an emotional announcement with Sergeant Bergdahl’s parents in the White House Rose Garden, the White House has repeatedly had to defend the deal it cut to bring home the longest-held American captive of America’s longest war.
奥巴马与贝里达尔的父母一起，在白宫玫瑰园动情地宣布了此事。接下来的这几天里，白宫却不得不反复为自己达成的协议辩护。该协议将美国最漫长战争中遭受最长时间扣押的美军俘虏带回了国。
On Wednesday evening, as they emerged from a briefing with administration officials in a secure basement room in the Capitol, both Republican and Democratic senators said that they were not convinced that Sergeant Bergdahl’s life was in immediate danger.
周三晚间，刚刚听取了奥巴马政府官员简报的议员们从国会山的一间安全地下室中走出来。民主共和两党的参议员均表示，对于贝里达尔面临迫在眉睫的生命危险的说辞，他们并未信服。
And angry lawmakers insisted that the exchange of the Taliban prisoners for Mr. Bergdahl puts American lives at risk.
一些愤怒的议员坚称，用塔利班战俘交换贝里达尔的做法威胁到了美国民众的生命。
Hopes for Sergeant Bergdahl’s release were rekindled late last September, after two years of intermittent negotiations, when the Taliban used a Qatari intermediary to send a secret message to the United States indicating that a prisoner swap might be possible. Up to that point, the prisoner issue had been one part of a broader agenda aimed at bringing the Taliban to the negotiating table, but this was a more narrow proposal.
经过两年断断续续的谈判，贝里达尔获释的希望于去年9月底重新燃起。当时，塔利班利用一名卡塔尔中间人向美国传递了一条秘密讯息，表示或许可以进行俘虏交换。在此之前，俘虏问题一直属于旨在将塔利班带到谈判桌上的大议题的一部分，然而这一回，提议的范畴要更为有限。
“It was a far, far smaller deal — not Bergdahl in return for something bigger,” according to a former senior administration official, who like a dozen other officials spoke about the events surrounding Sergeant Bergdahl’s release only on the condition of anonymity.
“这是一桩要小得多的交易——不是用贝里达尔交换更大的东西，”奥巴马政府的一名前高级官员说。与讨论贝里达尔获释问题的其他十多名官员一样，此人要求不具名。
Obama administration officials responded to the message weeks later, in early November, expressing interest in the idea but demanding that the Taliban provide proof that the captured American soldier was still alive. At the same time, discussions intensified between Washington and Doha about the conditions under which the five Taliban prisoners could be transferred and held in the peninsula nation.
奥巴马政府数周后回应了这则讯息，此时是11月初。他们表达了对提议的兴趣，但要求塔利班提供贝里达尔仍然活着的证据。与此同时，围绕着在何种情况下五名塔利班俘虏可被转移并扣留在半岛国家卡塔尔，华盛顿与多哈之间的讨论频繁起来。
Some senior American military commanders had long opposed using the Taliban prisoners as a bargaining chip to secure Sergeant Bergdahl’s release, but there was generally skepticism among American intelligence officials that releasing Taliban operatives who had been in captivity for more than a decade would have any appreciable impact on the Afghan battlefield.
部分美国军方高级将领一直反对将塔利班俘虏当做确保贝里达尔获释的谈判筹码，不过，对于释放被关押了十年以上的塔利班人员能否对阿富汗战场产生任何显著作用，情报界的官员基本上持怀疑态度。
In early December, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel visited Qatar for what appeared to be a number of routine meetings with an ally and a chance to meet the country’s new emir. But a top priority for Mr. Hagel during his stop in Doha was putting a plan in place to free Sergeant Bergdahl. The secretary pressed his Qatari hosts: Is there a team in place to push ahead on the negotiations? Could Qatar give assurances that the Taliban prisoners would be closely monitored so they would not slip out of the country and return to Afghanistan?
12月初，国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)出访卡塔尔。表面看来，他是为了与盟友进行几番例行会谈，并且借此机会拜访该国的新埃米尔。然而，哈格尔此行最重要的一个目的是启动释放贝里达尔的计划。他向做东的卡塔尔方面施压：推进谈判的团队就位了吗？卡塔尔能不能保证，塔利班俘虏将被严密监视，以防他们逃出卡塔尔、回到阿富汗？
The proof of Sergeant Bergdahl’s condition came soon after, when the Taliban produced a short video clip of the soldier. In the video, believed to be shot sometime in December, Sergeant Bergdahl made references to recent events — including the death of former South African president Nelson Mandela — but he appeared sick and weak.
之后，有关贝里达尔状况的证明很快出现。塔利班制作了一则关于他的简短视频，据信拍摄于12月的某个时间点。在视频中，贝里达尔提到了近期的事件，包括南非前总统纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)的逝世。不过，他看似有病，身体虚弱。
“He looked shriveled,” said one senior American official who saw portions of the video. “There was a pallor about his skin that looked unhealthy. He didn’t seem alert; he seemed lethargic.”
“他看上去萎靡不振，”观看过视频片段的一名美国高级官员称。“皮肤苍白，似乎很不健康。看起来反应迟钝，没精打采的。”
Several teams of military medical specialists analyzed the video and wrote a report concluding that, among other things, the American prisoner was undernourished and was cradling one arm in another.
几个军方医疗专家小组对视频进行了分析，并撰写了一份报告。文中的结论包括，贝里达尔营养不良，在用一侧臂膀支撑另一侧。
But by mid-May, the United States and Qatar had signed a secret memorandum, with Qatar agreeing to impose security provisions for the five Taliban detainees. The memorandum called for a minimum one-year travel ban on the Afghans. Other details have been kept secret.
到了今年5月中旬，美国和卡塔尔签署了一个秘密备忘录，卡塔尔同意为五名塔利班囚犯施加安全保障措施。该备忘录要求在至少一年的时间里禁止这些阿富汗人旅行。其他细节则一直秘而不宣。
Even after the agreement was in place, the Obama administration chose to keep Congress in the dark about the secret negotiations. In recent days, White House officials have said that any leak about a possible prisoner trade could have once again scared off the Taliban.
即使在协议签署之后，奥巴马政府也选择不让国会知道这些秘密谈判。白宫官员近日说，囚犯交换的风声如果有丝毫走漏，可能就会再次吓跑塔利班。
“We didn’t have 30 days,” Denis R. McDonough, the White House chief of staff, said Monday, stepping around the question of whether they could have notified some in Congress two or three weeks ago.
“我们当时没有30天时间，”白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R. McDonough)周一表示，回避了“他们是否可以在两、三周前通知国会”这个问题。
On May 23, amid the growing fears that Sergent Bergdahl’s life might be in jeopardy, a small team from the State Department, Pentagon and White House flew to Qatar. With Qatari officials passing messages back and forth between the Americans and Taliban negotiators, the broad terms of an agreement were reached: A Taliban delegation would bring Sergeant Bergdahl from Pakistan to just across the border into the eastern province of Khost, in Afghanistan, where he would be turned over to American Special Operations troops.
5月23日，人们越来越担心贝里达尔可能有性命之虞，来自国务院、五角大楼和白宫的一个小组飞赴卡塔尔。卡塔尔官员在美国和塔利班谈判者之间传递消息，大致达成了一个协议：一个塔利班代表团将从巴基斯坦把贝里达尔带到边境另一边的阿富汗东部省份霍斯特，并在那里将他移交给美国特种作战部队。
The final piece of the accord fell into place on May 27, when Mr. Obama spoke by phone to the emir of Qatar and received his personal assurances that the Taliban detainees would be closely watched when they arrived in Qatar. A Qatari delegation flew to Guantánamo on Thursday evening, where its members waited until it was time to escort the five Taliban detainees — all of them among the very first prisoners at the controversial military jail — back to Doha.
5月27日，奥巴马和卡塔尔的埃米尔通了电话，得到了他的个人保证：塔利班囚犯抵达卡塔尔时，将被严密看管。就这样，最后的准备工作也就绪了。周四晚上，卡塔尔代表团飞往关塔那摩，然后一直等候在那里，直到护送五名塔利班囚犯离开，回到多哈的时候到来。关塔那摩军事监狱曾引起过很多是非争议，而这五个人都是那里的第一批囚犯。
Thousands of miles away, Special Operations troops were figuring out the logistics of the battlefield handoff with the Taliban, again through a Qatari intermediary. One American demand was that Sergeant Bergdahl would be handed over during the day, but problems finding cellular phone signals on both sides of the Afghanistan border delayed the exchange for hours — pushing almost to sunset on Saturday.
数千英里之外，特种作战部队制定了和塔利班在战地交换俘虏的方式，这还是需要卡塔尔充当中间人。美国要求在白天移交贝里达尔，但在阿富汗边境，双方的手机都遇到了信号问题，导致交换活动推迟了几个小时——几乎推迟到了周六的日落时分。
At 7 p.m. local time, in a tense but peaceful exchange that lasted no more than a minute, Taliban fighters pulled Sergeant Bergdahl from the cab of a pickup truck and handed him over to the American commandos.
当地时间晚7点，双方进行了紧张而平和的交换活动，前后历时不到一分钟。塔利班武装分子把贝里达尔从一辆小货车的驾驶室拉出来，将他移交给了美国突击队员。
Seconds later, he was whisked away in the Black Hawk helicopter.
几秒钟后，他被黑鹰直升机接走。