CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. — Four United States Marines were killed Thursday after a gunman opened fire at two military facilities here, and the federal authorities said they were investigating the episode as an act of domestic terrorism.
田纳西州查塔努加——周四，一名持枪者在两处军事场所开火，导致四名美国海军陆战队士兵死亡。联邦当局表示，他们正将这一事件作为一起国内恐怖主义案件进行调查。
The gunman, identified by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as Mohammod Youssuf Abdulazeez, 24, was also killed, and several others, including a police officer and a Marine Corps recruiter, were wounded. A senior Congressional official who had been briefed by law enforcement officials said Mr. Abdulazeez was a Kuwaiti-born Jordanian who became a naturalized citizen. (Earlier reports spelled the gunman’s name as Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez.)
除了遇害的四名士兵外，枪案还导致数人受伤，包括一名警官和一名海军陆战队招聘人员。持枪者本人也在交火中被击毙。美国联邦调查局(FBI)指认此人是24岁的穆罕茂德·优素福·阿卜杜勒阿奇兹(Mohammod Youssuf Abdulazeez)。一名国会高级官员在接到执法官员提供的消息后表示，阿卜杜勒阿奇兹是一名出生于科威特的约旦人，后来成为美国归化公民。（此前有报道将他的名字拼写为Muhammad Youssef Abdulazeez。）
“Somebody brutally and brazenly attacked members of our armed services,” the Chattanooga police chief, Fred Fletcher, said at a news conference, where Mayor Andy Berke described Thursday as “a nightmare for the city.”
“有人残忍且肆无忌惮地攻击了我们的军事人员，”查塔努加市警察局局长弗雷德·弗莱彻(Fred Fletcher)在一场新闻发布会上讲道。市长安迪·贝尔克(Andy Berke)则将周四描述为“这个城市的一场噩梦”。
The gunman was not on the government’s radar, but law enforcement officials said that Mr. Abdulazeez’s father had been under investigation several years ago for possible ties to a foreign terrorist organization. At one point, a law enforcement official said that the father was on a terrorist watch list and was questioned while on a trip abroad but that he was eventually removed from the list. The official cautioned that the investigation of the father was old and didn't generate any information on the son.
阿卜杜勒阿奇兹之前没有进入政府监控范围，但执法官员表示，他的父亲在几年前就已经因为可能与国外恐怖组织有所牵连而被调查。一名执法官员表示，他父亲一度被列入恐怖主义嫌疑人监控名单，也曾在一次出境过程中受到质询，但最终还是被从这一名单中剔除。这名官员同时谨慎指出，关于他父亲的调查已经过去很久，而且其中不曾出现与他有关的信息。
President Obama told reporters Thursday in a brief statement in the Oval Office that, while all the details of the shooting were not yet known, the killings appeared to be the work of a lone gunman.
奥巴马总统周四在椭圆形办公室向记者发布了简短声明，称在各种细节尚未明确之前，枪击事件似乎只是一名持枪者单独发动了袭击。
Mr. Obama expressed his “deepest sympathies” and described the deaths of the four Marines as “heartbreaking.”
奥巴马表达了他对遇难者家属的“深切同情”，并表示为四名海军陆战队士兵的牺牲感到“心痛”。
“I’d ask all Americans to pray for the families who are grief-stricken at this point,” he said.
“我希望所有美国人都能为遇难者的家人祈祷，他们此时正处在极度悲伤之中，”他说道。
Jeh Johnson, the homeland security secretary, said in a statement that officials were “enhancing the security posture at certain federal facilities, out of an abundance of caution.”
“出于高度谨慎的考虑，”国土安全部长杰·约翰逊(Jeh Johnson)在一份声明中表示，官方“正在着手提高某些联邦机构的安全性”。
Here in Chattanooga, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee, William C. Killian, said that the F.B.I. was leading the investigation and that federal officials were “treating this as an act of domestic terrorism.” But he, like other federal officials, cautioned that the investigation would ultimately determine how the shooting would be classified.
田纳西州东区联邦检察官威廉·C·基利安(William C. Killian)在查塔努加表示，FBI正在领导这起事件的调查工作，联邦官员们“将此事作为一起国内恐怖主义案件对待”。但是，像其他联邦官员一样，他也提醒说，最终调查结果将决定这次枪击事件究竟如何归类。
Edward W. Reinhold, the special agent in charge of the bureau’s Knoxville division, said investigators had “not determined whether it was an act of terrorism or a criminal act.” He said he expected “several hundred” bureau employees to join the inquiry by the end of the day.
负责诺克斯维尔(Knoxville)分区的特工爱德华·W·莱茵霍尔德(Edward W. Reinhold)表示，调查人员现在还不能“确定此事到底是恐怖行为还是刑事犯罪”。他表示，今天过去之前预计会有“数百名”FBI雇员加入这项调查工作。
Investigators said the shootings unfolded over about 30 minutes at midmorning, first at a military recruiting center on Lee Highway and later at a Naval Reserve facility on Amnicola Highway less than 10 miles away. All of the fatalities occurred at the second scene, where Marines and sailors are trained for reserve duty.
调查人员表示，枪击事件发生于当天上午十点前后，过程持续30分钟，凶手首先对位于李公路(Lee Highway)旁的征兵中心发起袭击，后来袭击了不到十英里远、位于艾姆尼古拉公路旁的一个海军预备役机构。所有伤亡都发生于第二个地点，那是海军陆战队士兵和水兵接受预备役任务培训的地方。
Carolyn Taylor, an employee at Binswanger Glass, which has offices across the street from the Navy building on Amnicola Highway, said she had heard scores of gunshots in the hours before city officials announced, at around 1:15 p.m., that the “active shooter situation” had concluded.
宾斯万格玻璃公司(Binswanger Glass)的雇员卡罗琳·泰勒(Carolyn Taylor)表示，在市政府官员于下午1点15分左右宣布“活跃枪击状况”结束之前，她曾听到很多枪响。这家公司的办公室位于艾姆尼古拉公路的海军预备役机构对面。
“At least 100, at least, because it was several at one time,” said Ms. Taylor, who added that police officers had swarmed into the area, their weapons drawn, “and then, within seconds, we heard the gunfire.”
“起码响了100枪，至少这么多，因为同时会响好多枪，”泰勒说道。她接着讲，有大量警员涌入这一地区，他们也拿出了武器，“然后，不到几秒钟，我们就听到了密集的枪声。”