Following reports in recent weeks that the White House is considering a full withdrawal from Afghanistan when the NATO-led mission ends in December 2014, a Pentagon assessment released Tuesday says significant foreign military assistance and financial support for Afghan security forces will be required long after U.S. troops are expected to depart.
最近几周有报道称，白宫正在考虑当北大西洋公约组织（NATO，简称北约）领导的任务于2014年12月结束之时全面撤走驻阿美军。周二，五角大楼发布评估报告表示，在美军撤离后很长一段时间之内，阿富汗安全部队都将需要大量的外国军事援助和经济支持。
“Beyond then, it will still require substantial training, advising and assistance — including financial support — to address ongoing shortcomings,” said the report, titled “Progress Toward Security and Stability in Afghanistan.”
这篇名为《阿富汗的安全与稳定进程》(Progress Toward Security and Stability in Afghanistan)的报告说，“在美军撤离之后，阿富汗安全部队仍然需要大量的训练、建议和援助——还有经济支持——来改进持续存在的不足。”
President Barack Obama has ordered U.S. troop levels, which were at 68,000 earlier this year, to be cut in half by February. Negotiations are under way with the Afghan government on a bilateral security agreement, including whether U.S. military personnel will remain after the NATO mandate expires at the end of 2014.
今年早些时候，驻阿美军共有6.8万人，奥巴马总统曾下令要在2月把这个人数减少一半。目前，有关方面正在与阿富汗政府就双边安全协议进行协商，议题之一是，北约任务于2014年年底到期之后，美国军事人员是否仍需留在阿富汗。
The twice-yearly report, required by Congress, covers the period from Oct. 1, 2012, to March 31, 2013; it therefore concludes before the start of the annual fighting season, which begins in earnest with the spring thaw. Like its predecessors, the report presents a grave assessment of the challenges remaining for Afghan security, rule of law and economic prosperity, but it also seeks to identify many silver linings of promise among the dark clouds of war.
这份一年两次的报告是按照美国国会的要求做出的，涵盖了从2012年10月1日到2013年3月31日的情况。所以，它并未包括年度争战季（一般会在春雪消融的时候正式开始）开始之后的情况。与之前的报告一样，这份报告对阿富汗安全状况、法治和经济前景等方面的残留问题做出了颇为严峻的评估，不过，报告也试图指出战争阴云之下的许多乐观因素。
The insurgency is again described as “resilient,” and the report repeats a standard strategic complaint heard in Washington and Kabul — that so long as the Taliban can find haven in Pakistan, defeating it on the battlefield will be difficult if not impossible.
报告再次将叛乱活动称为“顽疾”，并且重申了华盛顿和喀布尔都有的一种标准的战略性抱怨——只要塔利班(Taliban)能在巴基斯坦找到庇护，在战场上击败它即便不是不可能，也会非常困难。
The capabilities of Afghan security forces “have greatly increased over the past two years,” according to the report, an assessment counterbalanced by a statement that domestic security “has yet to demonstrate the ability to operate independently on a nationwide scale.”
报告称，阿富汗安全部队的战斗力“在过去两年的时间里有了大幅提升”。然而，另一项说明抵消了上述评定的乐观色彩，因为国内安全部队“尚未展现在全国范围内开展独立行动的能力”。
Afghan security forces are taking the lead for almost 90 percent of all military operations, the report states, highlighting that “the conflict in Afghanistan has shifted into a fundamentally new phase.”
报告称，阿富汗安全部队在将近90%的军事行动中充当了主导角色，突显“阿富汗冲突已经从根本上进入了一个新阶段”。
“For the past 11 years, the United States and our coalition partners have led the fight against the Taliban, but now Afghan forces are conducting almost all combat operations,” the report states.
报告称，“在过去的11年间，美国及我们的联盟伙伴领导了打击塔利班的战争，但如今，阿富汗部队正在执行几乎所有的作战行动。”
The release of the Pentagon assessment came days after the senior military commander in Afghanistan, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., told The New York Times that Afghanistan would need the United States for years to come.
五角大楼发布该报告几天前，美国驻阿富汗的高级军事指挥官小约瑟夫·F·邓福德上将(Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr.)告诉《纽约时报》，未来多年之内，阿富汗仍将需要美国的帮助。