WASHINGTON — President Trump on Monday officially designated North Korea as a state sponsor of terrorism, a provocative diplomatic move that he said is aimed at dramatically increasing pressure on the rogue nation to abandon its pursuit of nuclear weapons.
华盛顿——特朗普总统周一正式把朝鲜列为支持恐怖主义的国家，这一挑衅性的外交举动据称旨在大幅增加对这个流氓国家的压力，迫使其放弃发展核武器。
The president, who has repeatedly used fiery language to threaten and demean Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, made the announcement on Monday morning. North Korea will join Sudan, Syria and Iran as countries that the State Department identifies as ones that have “repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.”
周一上午，多次用激昂的言辞威胁和贬低朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的特朗普宣布了这一决定。朝鲜将和苏丹、叙利亚、伊朗一起，被美国国务院认定为“多次为国际恐怖主义行为提供支持”的国家。
“Should have happened a long time ago,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the start of a cabinet meeting at the White House. The president said the designation will lead to new, tougher sanctions on North Korea, which he said “must end its unlawful nuclear and ballistic missile development.”
“早就该这么做了，”特朗普在白宫举行的内阁会议一开始便对记者说。他表示，此举会促使对朝鲜实行新的、更严厉的制裁，称朝鲜“必须结束不合法的核武器和弹道导弹开发”。
Mr. Trump has vowed to seek “complete denuclearization” in North Korea and has threatened “fire and fury” aimed at the country if it endangers the United States. The president ordered an end to the policy of “strategic patience” pursued by his immediate predecessor in the hopes that North Korea’s leader would eventually agree to negotiate.
特朗普发誓寻求朝鲜的“彻底无核化”，并威胁称如果危及美国，便会向朝鲜发出“炮火与怒火”。他下令结束前任抱着朝鲜领导人最终会同意谈判的希望所实行的“战略忍耐”政策。
Still, it is unclear whether the terror designation will provide the president with new and powerful leverage to force nuclear negotiations or will simply deepen the rhetorical war of words between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim, whom the president has mockingly called “Little Rocket Man.”
尚不清楚将朝鲜列为支持恐怖主义的国家会给特朗普带来新的有力筹码，强迫对方同意进行核谈判，还是只会加剧特朗普与被其戏称为“小火箭人”(Little Rocket Man)的金正恩之间的口水战。
Long a pariah in the international community, North Korea was put on Washington’s list of state sponsors of terrorism in 1987 after Pyongyang’s agents planted a bomb that blew up a South Korean passenger jet, killing all 115 people on board. That attack was instructed by Kim Jong-il, the late father of the current leader Kim Jong-un, according to one of the agents, who was caught alive.
1987年，在平壤特工安放炸弹炸毁一架韩国客机，造成机上115人全部死亡后，长期被国际社会遗弃的朝鲜被华盛顿列入支持恐怖主义国家名单。据被活捉的一名特工称，那场袭击是在朝鲜现任领导人金正恩已去世的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)的指示下实施的。
North Korea was removed from the official State Department terror list nearly 20 years later by President George W. Bush, who in 2008 saw it as an opportunity to salvage a fragile nuclear deal in which North Korea would agree to halt its nuclear program.
近20年后的2008年，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)将朝鲜从国务院的官方支持恐怖主义国家名单移出。布什视其为挽救一份脆弱的核协议的机会，朝鲜会在该协议中同意停止核计划。
In fact, North Korea secretly continued to develop nuclear weapons, detonating one soon after the start of President Barack Obama’s administration in 2009. That demonstrated again the regime’s refusal to abandon its nuclear program despite promises to the United States.
实际上，朝鲜暗地里继续发展核武器，并在贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)政府2009年上台后不久引爆了一件核武器。此事再次表明，尽管向美国许下了承诺，但朝鲜政权仍拒绝放弃核计划。
Calls to put North Korea back on the list have grown since Mr. Kim’s half brother, Kim Jong-nam, was assassinated in February at Kuala Lumpur International Airport. North Korean agents were blamed for plotting the assassination, which involved the use of a rare nerve agent banned by international treaty.
自从金正恩同父异母的哥哥金正男(Kim Jong-nam)2月在吉隆坡国际机场(Kuala Lumpur International Airport)被暗杀以来，要求重新把朝鲜列入该名单的呼声增加。朝鲜特工被指策划了这起暗杀，暗杀中用到了被国际条约禁止使用的一种罕见神经毒剂。
North Korea has not conducted any missile tests since Sept. 15, raising cautious optimism for a possible de-escalation in the region. Mr. Trump’s decision to blacklist North Korea again, which reflects his policy of applying “maximum pressure” on the country, will likely invite angry reaction from Mr. Kim’s regime and dim chances for easing tensions on the Korean Peninsula.
自9月15日以来，朝鲜尚未进行任何导弹试验，这激起了各方谨慎的乐观，认为该地区的紧张局势可能会缓解。特朗普将朝鲜再次列入黑名单的决定，反映了他对该国施加“最大压力”的政策，可能会遭到金正恩政权的愤怒回应，并导致缓和朝鲜半岛紧张局势的希望变得渺茫。
The North Korean leader has a history of resorting to extreme measures against his enemies.
这位朝鲜领导人有过用极端措施对付敌人的经历。
Since taking power after the death of his father Kim Jong-il in 2011, he has executed dozens of senior officials deemed not loyal enough, often killing them with antiaircraft machine guns, in what South Korean officials called a “reign of terror.” They said Mr. Kim probably considered Kim Jong-nam, his father’s firstborn, as his potential replacement should his regime lose control of power.
自从其父金正日2011年去世后掌权以来，金正恩处决了数十名被认为不够忠诚的高官，通常是用高射机枪。韩国官员称之为“恐怖统治”。他们说，金正恩可能认为，如果自己的政权失去对权力的控制，他父亲的长子金正男会成为他潜在的接替者。
Trump administration officials had hinted in recent weeks that the president was considering adding North Korea back to the terror list in light of the country’s nuclear ambitions and the assassination earlier this year.
最近几周，特朗普政府的官员暗示，考虑到朝鲜的核野心和今年早些时候的暗杀，总统正在考虑让朝鲜回到恐怖主义名单。
Speaking at the beginning of a cabinet meeting, Mr. Trump accused the North Korean government of supporting “acts of international terrorism” that justified its inclusion on the State Department’s terror list.
内阁会议一开始，特朗普就指责朝鲜政府支持“国际恐怖主义行为”。这解释了将其列入国务院支持恐怖主义国家名单的理由。
Mr. Trump said that the Treasury Department on Tuesday will announce new, tougher sanctions on North Korea to accompany the designation.
特朗普说，伴随着朝鲜被列入该名单，财政部将于周二宣布对其实行新的、更严厉的制裁。
“It will be the highest level of sanctions,” he said.
“那将是最严厉的制裁，”他说。