WASHINGTON — As anyone associated with the Trump administration knows, it only takes one outburst — a few haphazard emojis here, a call to The New Yorker there — to cement a new reputation. This week, in the time it took her to type out an Instagram screed, Louise Linton transformed herself from the Treasury secretary’s wife to a Real Housewife of the Treasury.
华盛顿——正如任何一个与特朗普政府有关联的人所知，只需一次冲动——或许是几个随意的表情符，又或许是打给《纽约客》的一通电话——就会让风评大变。本周，露易丝·林顿(Louise Linton)在Instagram上发个帖子的功夫，就把自己从财政部长的妻子变成了“金库小娇妻”(Real Housewife of the Treasury)。
The protests and rallies and arguments roiling the country for months have not seemed to bother Ms. Linton, a Scottish actress who spent the summer after her wedding to Steven Mnuchin posting evidence of her lavish lifestyle on Instagram.
连月来搅动这个国家的抗议、集会和辩论似乎并未干扰到林顿，这名苏格兰女演员自从和史蒂文·努钦(Steven Mnuchin)举行婚礼以后，把夏日时光都用于在Instagram上贴出证据，证明她的生活有多奢华。
She zipped around on a speedboat in an Italian lake. She sipped wine at a restaurant overlooking the Louvre. She lounged in a very nice-looking pool with a very nice-looking giant inflatable swan, a tiny Chihuahua nestled in her arms.
她在意大利的湖中乘快艇兜风。她在可以俯瞰卢浮宫的餐厅里品红酒。她在有着非常漂亮的巨型充气天鹅的非常漂亮的泳池中懒洋洋地打发时间，怀里抱着一只小小的吉娃娃。
Along the way, Ms. Linton tagged and touted a parade of designers. “#TomFord.” “#Valentinorockstudheels.” “#HermesScarf.”
与此同时，林顿添加了涉及一大堆设计师的标签并吹捧他们。“#TomFord（汤姆·福特）。”“#Valentinorockstudheels（华伦天奴Rockstudg高跟鞋）。”“#HermesScarf（爱马仕丝巾）。”
This in-the-clouds lifestyle abruptly collided with her husband’s political day job on Monday after Ms. Linton, 36, dressed down a stranger on Instagram for criticizing her travels. She apologized hours later, but it was too late to stop the social-media dredging of her past mistakes, including “In Congo’s Shadow,” a much-criticized memoir about her spotty gap year spent in Africa.
周一，现年36岁的林顿抢白了Instagram上的一个批评其旅行的陌生人，随后，这种云端的生活方式和他丈夫在政界的工作猛然起了冲突。几小时后她道了歉，但为时已晚，根本无法阻止人们在社交媒体上八卦她以往的过错，其中包括《在刚果的阴影之下》(In Congo's Shadow)，一本饱受批评的回忆录，写的是她在非洲度过的间隔年，中间偶有不光彩的事迹。
It was too late to stop critics from defacing her Wikipedia page, usually the first sign of any true social media frenzy. And it was too late to go back to her relatively under-the-radar Washington life. She even managed to upstage President Trump, a man who had just stared directly into the sun.
她已来不及阻止批评者丑化她的维基百科页面——这通常是任何一场真正的社交媒体狂欢正在到来的第一个迹象。她也来不及回归自己那相对低调神秘的华盛顿生活。她甚至成功地抢了特朗普总统的风头，后者刚刚才直视日食。
The debacle started after Ms. Linton took a day trip to Kentucky with Mr. Mnuchin and the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell. Ms. Linton, a spun-sugar blond who cuts an over-the-top glamorous figure in Washington, posted an Instagram photo of herself, Hermes bag on one arm and a Hermes scarf on the other, disembarking from a government jet. Her message contained praise for Kentucky: “#nicest #people #beautiful,” she wrote in Trumpian, hash-tagged prose.
灾难始于林顿和努钦及参议院多数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)为期一天的肯塔基之行结束后。一头蓬松金发的林顿以最最迷人的姿态亮相华盛顿，她在Instagram上贴出自己的照片：一条胳膊上挂着爱马仕手袋，另一条胳膊上是爱马仕丝巾，正款步走下一架政府的飞机。她在帖子里颂扬了肯塔基州：“#nicest（最甜的）#people（人）#beautiful（美）。”用的是特朗普式的标签体。
As happens on social media, a stranger rained on Ms. Linton’s photo op by posting a mean comment.
接着，社交媒体上常有的事情发生了，一个陌生人就林顿摆拍的照片发了一条刻薄的评论。
“Glad we could pay for your little getaway. #deplorable,” Jenni Miller, a 45-year-old mother of three who lives in Oregon, wrote under the photograph.
“我们很高兴能为你的短途旅行买单。#deplorable（可憎），”现年45岁的詹妮·米勒(Jenni Miller)在照片下写道。她是一名三个孩子的母亲，住在俄勒冈州。
Ms. Linton’s response was not quite as rose-colored as her original photo caption had been.
林顿的回应并不像照片最初的图说那样美好。
“Have you given more to the economy than me and my husband? Either as an individual earner in taxes OR in self sacrifice to your country?” Ms. Linton wrote.
“无论是从个人纳的税还是从为国家做出的牺牲方面看，你对经济的贡献有我和我丈夫大吗？”林顿写道。
She wasn’t done.
这还不算完。
“I’m pretty sure we paid more taxes toward our day ‘trip’ than you did. Pretty sure the amount we sacrifice per year is a lot more than you’d be willing to sacrifice if the choice was yours.”
“我相当确定，我们为我们的一日‘游’支付的税款比你们多。我相当确定，我们每年的牺牲比你们愿意牺牲的要多很多，如果你们有选择的话。”
And then, Ms. Linton, fresh from a European vacation punctuated by rides at SoulCycle and trips to the Hamptons, delivered a blow to the offending commoner: “You’re adorably out of touch.”
林顿的欧洲度假中穿插着SoulCycle健身房骑行和汉普顿之旅，接下来，刚刚归来的她在回复中向那些冒犯她的普通人大发雷霆：“你们脱离现实得真可爱。”
Ms. Miller, the mother from Oregon, offered a similar criticism to The Times on Monday night.
周一晚上，俄勒冈州的那位母亲米勒将类似的批评发给了时报。
“If she hadn’t made her account private, I would have written back with a very snide Marie Antoinette joke,” Ms. Miller said.
“要不是她把自己的帐号转为私密，我就可以写一段关于玛丽·安托瓦内特(Marie Antoinette)的笑话来挖苦她了，”米勒说。
Ms. Linton is not the first woman associated with Mr. Trump to earn a comparison to Marie Antoinette. As protests erupted around the country over her father’s proposed travel ban in January, an Instagram photo of Ivanka Trump wearing a silver dress was quickly dubbed the “let them eat cake” photograph. Ms. Linton also is not the only woman in the president’s orbit who is dripping in diamonds and draped in Chanel.
在同特朗普有关的女人们当中，林顿不是第一个被拿出来同玛丽·安托瓦内特做比较的。特朗普于1月提出旅行禁令后，随着抗议活动在全国各地爆发，伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)身穿银色连衣裙的Instagram照片很快被加上了“何不吃蛋糕”的图说。林顿也不是总统小圈子里唯一一个全身佩戴钻石、披挂香奈儿行头的女人。
But she is the first to be bluntly unapologetic about her luxurious lifestyle, one that affords her a comfortable, swan-shaped perch to view the country’s infighting.
但她是第一个对自己奢华生活方式毫不避讳的人物，这样的生活令她现在可以端坐在舒适的天鹅椅上，观赏这个国家陷入内讧。
The other difference, of course, is that Ms. Linton is not a White House official, nor an elected one. She is an actress whose most recent work includes a role as a character named Betty on a 2016 movie called “Rules Don’t Apply.” She often shares photos of her past roles on Instagram. In July, she shared an image of a 2007 “CSI: NY” appearance. Her character in that episode was dressed as Marie Antoinette.
当然，还有另一个区别，林顿并不是白宫官员，也不是民选官员。她是个演员，最近的作品是在2016年的电影《打破陈规》(Rules Don’t Apply)中饰演一个名叫贝蒂的角色。她经常在Instagram上分享她以前的剧照。7月，她贴出了她在《犯罪现场调查：纽约》(CSI: NY)2007年那一季中的剧照。当时她饰演的角色就穿成玛丽·安托瓦内特的样子。
Ms. Linton, who declined to comment on her Instagram posts or her book on Tuesday, said in June that she met her husband at a wedding reception in Los Angeles in 2013. Since then, their Hollywood marriage — his third, her second — has had a rocky transition to Washington. During his confirmation process, Mr. Mnuchin was scrutinized for failing to disclose the full scope of his financial assets.
周二，林顿拒绝对她在Instagram上的帖子以及她的书发表评论，她曾在6月说过，她和丈夫是2013年在洛杉矶的一场婚礼招待会上认识的。从那时起，他们的好莱坞婚姻——他的第三段婚姻，她的第二段——便开始迅速向华盛顿转移。在职位提名确认过程中，努钦因未全面披露自己的金融资产而遭到详细审查。
In May, after Mr. Mnuchin named Ms. Linton the interim chief executive of Dune Entertainment, a financing company he helped found, she stepped down after Democrats raised ethical questions, CNN reported. Ms. Linton said the position was meant to be temporary.
据CNN报道，5月，努钦任命林顿担任他参与创办的金融公司杜恩娱乐(Dune Entertainment)的临时首席执行官，民主党人提出操守质疑后，她辞职了。林顿表示，这个职位本来就是暂时的。
When in Washington, Ms. Linton said that she and Mr. Mnuchin, formerly of Goldman Sachs and a former Hollywood film financier, enjoy exploring the city. “DC Architecture reminds me of the architecture in Edinburgh where I was raised,” she wrote in an email in June.
林顿说，她和前高盛(Goldman Sachs)及前好莱坞电影融资人努钦都喜欢探索华盛顿这个城市。6月，她在一封电子邮件中写道：“华盛顿的建筑让我想起爱丁堡，我就是在那里长大的。”
The pair are often spotted dining at Cafe Milano or the Trump International Hotel, where in late July they had dinner with the president. Ms. Linton has readily found her place in a circle of distinctly Washington socialites, including Amy Baier, the wife of Bret Baier, the Fox News host, and Abeer Al Otaiba, the wife of Yousef al-Otaiba, the United Arab Emirates ambassador.
这对夫妻经常被人看到在米兰诺咖啡厅或特朗普国际酒店用餐，7月下旬，他们还在特朗普国际酒店和总统共进晚餐。林顿已经在一个华盛顿社交名流圈中找到自己的位置，这个圈子包括Fox台主播布雷特·拜尔(Bret Baier)的妻子艾米·贝尔(Amy Baier)，以及阿拉伯联合酋长国驻美大使优素福·阿里·奥泰巴(Yousef al-Otaiba)的妻子阿贝尔·阿里·奥泰巴(Abeer Al Otaiba)。
But the scrutiny over their lifestyle follows them. Even on day trips.
但是他们的生活方式总是受到密切审视。即便一日游也不例外。
A Treasury Department official said that the Mnuchins had, in fact, reimbursed the government for the Kentucky trip. And Ms. Linton’s label-loving shout-out was not rewarded with free products or compensation, at least not in the case of her “#valentinorockstudheels” and “#valentino” tags, a spokeswoman for the brand said in an email on Tuesday.
一位财政部官员表示，努钦夫妇事实上已退还了政府为肯塔基之旅支付的费用。而林顿大肆炫耀名牌的行为并没有为她带来免费产品或报酬，据华伦天奴发言人于周二在电子邮件中所说，至少“#valentinorockstudheels”和“#valentino（华伦天奴）”这两个标签是这样。
Hours later, Ms. Linton did something rare for someone associated with Trump administration: She said she was sorry.
几个小时后，林顿做了一件与特朗普政府有关的人不常做的事：她说她很抱歉。
“I apologize for my post on social media yesterday as well as my response,” Ms. Linton said in a statement relayed through her publicist. “It was inappropriate and highly insensitive.”
“我为我昨天在社交媒体上的帖子以及我的回复而道歉，”林顿通过她的公关人员发表声明说。“它们是不得体的，非常欠考虑。”