BOSTON — In 1990, Richard Abath was a 23-year-old self-described hippie and guitarist for a rock band named Ukiah who, while moonlighting as a security guard, allowed two thieves posing as police officers to enter the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum here.
波士顿——1990年，23岁的理查德·阿巴思(Richard Abath)自称嬉皮士，是一个名叫Ukiah的摇滚乐队的吉他手。晚上他在波士顿的伊莎贝拉·斯图尔特·加德纳博物馆(Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum)当保安时，准许两名化装成警察的盗贼进入博物馆。
For 25 years, his decision to buzz in the men who carted away $500 million worth of art has been largely treated as the hapless act of a rookie watchman who fell for a bluff.
两名盗贼用车运走了价值五亿美元的艺术品。25年来，大部分人认为，阿巴思决定放那两个人进去，是因为这个倒霉的新手门卫当时被吓唬住了。
But on Thursday, federal officials still investigating the art heist — the largest in American history — drew fresh attention to Mr. Abath’s actions at 1:24 a.m. on March 18, 1990, (the morning of the crime) by releasing an enhanced, if foggy, six-minute videotape from the day before.
但是，周四（8月6日），仍在调查这桩美国历史上最严重的艺术品盗窃案的联邦官员们重新审视阿巴思在1990年3月18日凌晨1点24分（盗窃发生的那个凌晨）的行为，公布了盗窃发生前一天的一个六分钟长的录像，虽然图像经过处理提高了清晰度，但是依然有些模糊。
Officials say it shows Mr. Abath, while on guard duty the previous day, opening the same side doors entered by the thieves and admitting a man in a waist-length coat and upturned collar.
联邦官员们说，录像显示，阿巴思前一天值班时打开侧门（后来盗贼也是从这边的侧门进去的），准许一个身穿短外套、衣领竖起的男子进入。
The man is first shown backing up his car to a museum side entrance that led directly to the guard station. He steps out of his car and buzzes the door. On the tape, Mr. Abath is seen admitting the man, greeting him briefly and reviewing a small document that the man brought with him. The pair is then out of sight for several minutes before the man walks out.
那个男人第一次出现是把车倒到博物馆的一个侧门，那个门直接通向警卫站。他下车，按了门铃。在录像带中，阿巴思和那个男人简短打了招呼，查看了他的一个小证件，然后放他进去。之后，两人在画面中消失了几分钟，直到那个男人走出来。
In a statement released with the video, officials with the United States Attorney’s office in Massachusetts did not identify Mr. Abath. And in interviews on Thursday, they carefully avoided suggesting what the release of the video seems to imply: that his actions are again being scrutinized as part of the investigation into a case that has bewildered the authorities for a quarter-century.
在随录像带公布的声明中，美国马萨诸塞州检察院的官员们没有提到阿巴思。在周四的采访中，他们谨慎地避免说到发布这段录像似乎暗示的意思：在调查这桩让当局困惑了25年的案件时，他们再次认真审视阿巴思的行为。
But they did say that Mr. Abath had never disclosed the previous day’s visit during his many interviews with investigators. And in the release, they say that admitting the man was “against museum policy.”
不过他们确实提到，在探员的那么多次询问中，阿巴思从未透露前一天那个人的来访。在公布视频时，他们说，准许那个男人进入博物馆是“违反规定的”。
Mr. Abath, now 49 and living in Brattleboro, Vt., where he works as a teacher’s aide, could not be reached for comment. But he has long denied any role in the heist. Reached by phone on Thursday his wife, Diane, said, “I can’t deal with this right now,” and hung up.
现年49岁的阿巴思住在佛蒙特州布拉特尔鲍罗市，是一名助教。现在联系不到他，无法让他做出评论。但是长久以来，他一直否认参与盗窃。周四，通过电话联系到他的妻子黛安娜(Diane)。她说“我现在没办法回答”，然后就挂了电话。
The tape was collected just after the theft, but it is unclear whether it had ever been reviewed before 2013. United States Attorney Carmen M. Ortiz said in a telephone interview that the prosecutor who took over the case about two years ago, Robert Fisher, pulled it from the stacks of Gardner evidence at the F.B.I. and viewed it during a “complete re-examination of the case.”
盗窃发生后，这个录像带就被收缴了，但是2013年之前，它是否曾被看过，就不太清楚了。检察官卡门·M·奥尔蒂斯(Carmen M. Ortiz)在接受电话采访时说，大约两年前接手这个案子的检察官罗伯特·费希尔(Robert Fisher)从联邦调查局的加德纳案证据堆中找出了这个录像带，在“全面复查该案时”观看了它。
Since then, she said, Mr. Fisher and F.B.I. investigators have tried to identify the visitor and the make and model of the car. The street images of the car remain dark, and the visitor’s face is only slightly discernible two minutes and 18 seconds into the video.
奥尔蒂斯说，从那以后，费希尔和联邦调查局的探员们尝试查明那位访客的身份，以及那辆车的牌子和型号。但是那辆车在街上的影像很黑，访客的脸也仅在视频出现了2分18秒，而且也只是勉强可辨。
“Now we are calling on the public for help,” she said.
“现在我们请公众来帮忙，”奥尔蒂斯说。
Asked whether the tape had ever been reviewed 25 years ago, Ms. Ortiz said, “I can’t answer that” and referred the question to the F.B.I.
当被问及25年前这个录像带是否被看过时，奥尔蒂斯说，“我无法回答这个问题”，并建议我们去问联邦调查局。
Pete Kowenhoven, the assistant special agent in charge of the F.B.I.’s Boston bureau, responded: “It may have been reviewed back then. I’m not sure of the answer to that question.” He added that his focus now was on whether the tape would garner new clues.
联邦调查局波士顿分局的负责人、助理特工皮特·科温霍文(Pete Kowenhoven)回复说：“当时可能看过。我不确定这个问题的答案。”他补充说，他现在关注的是这个录像带能否带来新线索。
Ms. Ortiz and Mr. Kowenhoven both said that their agencies would not comment on Mr. Abath “for privacy reasons.”
奥尔蒂斯和科温霍文都说，“为了保护隐私”，他们所在的机构不会就阿巴思做出评论。
Anthony M. Amore, director of security at the Gardner since 2005, pointed out that the visit took place right after Mr. Abath’s partner left the guard station to do his rounds. The two fake police officers, who were admitted 24 hours later, after claiming through the intercom that they were looking into a disturbance, also entered the museum just after Mr. Abath’s partner left him to go do rounds, Mr. Amore added.
2005年起担任加德纳博物馆安保主管的安东尼·M·阿莫尔(Anthony M. Amore)指出，那位访客到来时，阿巴思的搭档刚离开警卫站去巡逻。24小时后，也是在阿巴思的搭档刚离开去巡逻时，两名假警察通过对讲机声称他们在调查一起骚乱，而后被准许进入博物馆。
“It’s very troubling,” he said, adding that “this video raises more questions than it answers.”
阿莫尔说，“这十分令人困扰”，“比起这个视频提供给我们的答案，它引发出的问题其实更多”。
When the real Boston police arrived the morning of the robbery, they found that 13 works had been stolen, including three Rembrandts and a Vermeer. They also found Mr. Abath and the second guard manacled in the basement, their heads bound with duct tape. Mr. Abath was described as scared, exhausted and fully cooperative as he recounted his ordeal.
盗窃案发生后的那天早上，当真正的波士顿警察到达时，他们发现，13件艺术品被盗，包括伦勃朗(Rembrandt)的三件作品和弗美尔(Vermeer)的一件作品。他们还发现，阿巴思和另一名保安被拷在地下室里，头上缠着强力胶带。据说，阿巴思当时非常恐惧，十分疲惫，在叙述自己的痛苦经历时非常配合。
At the time, Gardner employees used the side exit, which consisted of two locked doors separated by a vestibule known as a mantrap, late into the evening to come and go or accept deliveries. But the museum’s former security director has said that bringing in a visitor after 11:30 p.m., when Mr. Abath’s shift began, was not allowed.
当时，加德纳博物馆的员工们在深夜使用侧门出入或接受快递。侧门包括两道加锁的门，两道门中间的通道是防止盗贼入侵的诱捕陷阱。但是博物馆的前安保主管说过，晚上11点半（也就是阿巴思开始值班时）之后是禁止访客入内的。
The precise strategy of investigators in releasing the video is unclear since, as the New York Times reported in February, the FBI feels confident it has already identified the two thieves, both long dead, who posed as police officers.
我们不清楚探员们为什么要公布这个视频。《纽约时报》今年2月报道过，联邦调查局确信自己已找到两位假扮成警察的盗贼，他们早已死去。
Investigators said do not believe that the man shown entering the museum on the tape is either of those two suspects, but they have said they are eager to identify anyone who might be able to shed light on the case or help track what happened to the artwork. In a briefing earlier this year, investigators said they believe the art fell into the hands of organized crime figures after the robbery, and that some of it was spotted by an informant in Philadelphia a few years back.
调查者们称，他们不认为视频中那个进入博物馆的人是两位嫌疑犯中的一个，但是他们说过，他们特别想找到任何可能帮助弄清案情或追踪那些艺术品下落的人。在今年早些时候的一个简报中，他们说，艺术品被盗后落入犯罪团伙手中，几年前，费城的一个线人见到过其中一些艺术品。
Given the statute of limitations, no one involved in the heist could still be charged with the theft. In fact, museum officials say that even someone involved in the crime who helped the Gardner recover the art “in good condition” would be eligible for the $5 million reward.
鉴于诉讼时效，涉案人员都不能再被起诉。实际上，加德纳博物馆的管理者们说，只要能帮忙找回“保存完好”的艺术品，就算是涉案人员，也有资格获得500万美元的奖赏。
Investigators declined to say whether they had shown the tape to Mr. Abath before releasing it, but made clear that they had thoroughly exhausted their attempts to learn the man’s identity before making the video public. On Friday, they said that a number of people had contacted them with tips.
调查者拒绝透露录像带公布前是否给阿巴思看过，但是他们明确表示，公布视频前，为了弄清这个人的身份，他们已想尽办法。周五（8月7日），他们说，他们已得到群众提供的一些信息。
Mr. Abath, a Berklee College of Music dropout with long, wavy brown hair, has said that he sometimes arrived stoned for his “boring” night shifts, clad in a cowboy hat and rumpled T-shirt.
阿巴思是伯克利音乐学院(Berklee College of Music)的辍学生，留着棕色长卷发。他说，他有时会醉醺醺地去上“枯燥的”夜班，还戴着牛仔帽，穿着皱巴巴的T恤。
Investigators have kept an eye on him and his bank accounts for the simple reason that, according to F.B.I. statistics, most art heists involve someone on the inside. But by and large, they have taken him at his word.
调查者一直密切关注他，不时查看他的银行账户，原因很简单：根据联邦调查局的数据，大部分艺术品盗窃案都有内线。但是总的来说，他们相信他的话。
Mr. Abath has spoken to F.B.I. agents throughout the years, without a lawyer. In 2013, when he sought to write a book about the case, he said he had passed two lie-detector tests after the theft and had cooperated fully with investigators and sketch artists.
这么多年来，阿巴思接受联邦调查局的调查时都没有律师在场。2013年，他打算写一本关于此案的书。当时他说，盗窃发生后，他两次通过测谎测试，并全力配合探员和嫌疑犯肖像绘制师的工作。
“Once I sat down with the F.B.I., I think the first thing I said was, ‘What do you want to know?’, ” Mr. Abath, now a longhaired but gray-bearded father of two, said on CNN in March 2013. “I’m the guy who opened up the door. They’re obviously going to be looking at me.”
“我和联邦调查局的探员坐下后，我说的第一句话就是，‘你们想知道什么？’”2013年3月，长发依旧、胡子花白且有两个孩子的阿巴思在接受CNN采访时说，“门是我打开的。他们当然会盯住我。”
Mr. Abath had worked at the museum for about a year before the crime, earning $7.35 an hour for his graveyard shift. He had given two weeks’ notice shortly before the theft, he said, to devote time to his rock band.
盗窃案发生前，阿巴思已经在加德纳博物馆工作了大约一年，值夜班的工资是每小时7.35美元。他说，盗窃案发生前不久，他已告知博物馆，两周后他将把全部精力用在自己的摇滚乐队上。
“I was just this hippie guy who wasn’t hurting anything, wasn’t on anybody’s radar,” he said in an interview broadcast on National Public Radio this past March. “And the next day, I was on everybody’s radar for the largest art heist in history.”
“我只是一个嬉皮士，一个无害的人，谁也不认识我，”今年3月，他在接受全国公共广播电台(National Public Radio)的采访时说，“一夜之间，因为史上最大的艺术盗窃案，谁都认识我了。”