WASHINGTON — Rebuffing efforts by President-elect Donald Trump to cast doubt on Russian interference in the presidential election, top intelligence officials and senators from both parties on Thursday issued a forceful affirmation of the findings. They took relentless aim at Trump’s public skepticism and suggested he had negatively affected morale in the intelligence community.
华盛顿——最高情报官员和两党参议员本周四都对候任总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)针对俄罗斯干预总统选举表示怀疑的努力予以抵制，并且对调查结果予以强有力的确认。他们对特朗普公开持疑的态度进行了严厉抨击，并暗示他对情报界的士气产生了负面影响。
“There’s a difference between skepticism and disparagement,” James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, said at the hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
“怀疑和蔑视是不同的，”美国国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)在参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)的听证会上说。
Clapper added that “our assessment now is even more resolute” that the Russians carried out the attack on the election. President Barack Obama received a classified briefing on the intelligence community’s findings today, followed by one for Trump on Friday. An unclassified report will be released to the public next week.
克拉珀还说，“我们的评估现在进一步确认”俄罗斯人对选举进行了攻击。奥巴马总统今天听取了情报界对调查结果的机密汇报，周五是特朗普听取汇报。一份非机密的报告将于下周向公众公布。
The hacking was only one part of the Russian endeavor, which also included the dissemination of “classical propaganda, disinformation, fake news,” Clapper said.
克拉珀说，除了黑客入侵之外，俄罗斯采取的行动还包括搞“传统宣传、假情报、假消息”。
The gathering was extraordinary as much for its context as its content — a public, bipartisan display of support for the intelligence community that seemed aimed, at times, at an audience of one.
这次听证会的背景和它的内容一样不同寻常——这是两党公开显示对情报界的支持，情报界有时候显得只把其中一党作为受众。
Though Clapper and most Republican senators were careful to avoid antagonizing the president-elect directly, the hearing spoke to the rift Trump has threatened to create between the incoming administration and the intelligence officials tasked with informing it.
虽然克拉珀和大多数共和党参议员都小心翼翼地避免与候任总统直接叫板，但这次听证会所针对的是特朗普在即将上任的政府和负责为其提供消息的情报官员之间制造裂痕的威胁。
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. and chairman of the committee, said the purpose of the gathering was “not to question the outcome of the presidential election” but to move forward with a full understanding of what had happened.
参议院军事委员会主席、亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)说，这个听证会的目的不是“质疑总统选举的结果”，而是充分理解发生了什么事情，继续向前迈进。
Repeatedly, though, McCain and his colleagues seemed to undercut Trump’s past messages of support for Russia and Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, whom Trump has appeared to defend.
不过，麦凯恩及其同事似乎削弱了特朗普之前支持俄罗斯和维基解密创始人朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)的言论，特朗普似乎在维护阿桑奇。
“Do you think there’s any credibility we should attach to this individual?” McCain asked.
“你认为我们应该赋予这个人任何可信性吗？”麦凯恩问。
“Not in my view,” Clapper said. Another witness at the hearing, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, a leader of the National Security Agency and U.S. Cyber Command, said he agreed.
“我不认为应该这样，”克拉珀说道。另一名证人、国家安全局和美国网络战司令部负责人迈克尔·S·罗杰斯海军上将(Adm. Michael S.Rogers)也赞同这种说法。
Clapper, while withholding revelations about the Russian attack ahead of next week’s release, did promise to “push the envelope” in declassifying as much detail as possible.
虽然在下周公布对俄罗斯攻击调查的结果之前，克拉珀没有谈及这方面的内容，但他承诺要解密尽可能多的细节，做到“能讲都讲”。