WASHINGTON — The Pentagon’s top commander in the Pacific accepted full responsibility on Wednesday for a confusing chain of events this month that mistakenly left the impression that the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson was rushing to confront an increasingly belligerent North Korea, when it was not.
华盛顿——周三，五角大楼在太平洋地区的最高指挥官表示对本月的一连串令人困惑的事件承担全部责任。那些事件错误地让人以为卡尔文森号(Carl Vinson)航空母舰正火速前去对抗越来越好战的朝鲜，实际上该航母当时并不是开往那里。
“That’s my fault,” the officer, Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., the head of the Pacific Command, told the House Armed Services Committee in a hearing on security challenges in the region. “I’ll take the hit for that.”
“这是我的错，”美国太平洋司令部司令、海军上将小哈里·B·哈里斯(Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr.)在关于该地区安全挑战的听证会上对众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)说。“我愿意承担责任。”
Admiral Harris ordered the Carl Vinson and three other warships earlier this month to cancel a port call to Australia and “sail north” from Singapore into the western Pacific. An ill-timed news release by the Navy’s Third Fleet created the impression that the carrier was headed north immediately, but in reality, it was steaming south to join the Australian navy in a secretive, truncated exercise in the Indian Ocean, 3,500 miles southwest of the Korean Peninsula.
本月初，哈里斯上将命令卡尔文森号和其他三艘战舰取消在澳大利亚港口停靠，从新加坡“向北航行”进入西太平洋。海军第三舰队发布新闻的时机不当，让人以为这艘航母正即刻向北航行，但实际上它正在向南航行，准备与澳大利亚海军在印度洋举行一场经过缩减的秘密军演，地点在朝鲜半岛西南3500英里（约合5600公里）外。
The confusing sequence of events — including a partially erroneous explanation later by the defense secretary, Jim Mattis — were only fully revealed about a week later when the Navy posted photographs of the carrier group steaming off the coast of Indonesia.
这一系列令人困惑的事件——包括后来国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)进行的部分错误的解释——在大约一周后海军发布该航母编队驶离印度尼西亚海岸的多张照片后，才得以完全澄清。
The chain of errors surprised Admiral Harris’s bosses at the Pentagon, upset edgy allies and caught the White House flat-footed — especially after President Trump asserted an “armada” was racing toward the impending crisis.
这一系列错误令哈里斯上将在五角大楼的上司们感到惊讶，令焦躁不安的盟国感到沮丧，暴露出白宫的笨拙——尤其在特朗普总统声称一支“舰队”正火速前去应对即将到来的危机之后。
By this week, the Carl Vinson had finally headed north and was conducting exercises with the Japanese navy in the Philippine Sea. Admiral Harris said the Carl Vinson — a Nimitz-class nuclear-powered carrier and its strike force, two destroyers and one cruiser — would continue steaming north, toward the Korean Peninsula, but did not specify exactly when it would be there. Other officials said it would likely arrive later this week.
本周，卡尔文森号终于向北航行，在菲律宾海与日本海军进行军事演习。哈里斯上将表示，卡尔文森号将继续向北驶向朝鲜半岛，但没有确切说明它何时会到达那里。其他官员表示，它很可能会于本周晚些时候到达。卡尔文森号是一艘尼米兹级核动力航母，一同前去的还有它的打击力量——两艘驱逐舰和一艘巡洋舰。
Asked how long it would take fighter jets aboard the Carl Vinson to reach North Korea from the ship’s current location in the Philippine Sea, Admiral Harris said, “two hours.”
当被问及卡尔文森号上的战斗机从菲律宾海域的当前位置飞到朝鲜需要多长时间时，哈里斯上将说：“两个小时。”