SEOUL, South Korea — The knife attack last week on the American ambassador to South Korea, Mark W. Lippert, set off an outpouring of good wishes here for both the envoy and Seoul’s alliance with Washington.
韩国首尔——美国驻韩国大使马克·W·利伯特(Mark W. Lippert)上周遭持刀袭击后，人们纷纷向这位大使及韩美联盟送上美好祝愿。
But the response, led largely by conservative South Koreans, has now provoked a backlash, with accusations that the government of President Park Geun-hye and its supporters are “worshiping” America and politicizing the case to discredit their critics.
但这种主要由韩国保守派引领的反应，如今却引发了强烈反对，有人谴责总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)领导的政府及其支持者“崇拜”美国，将该案件政治化，以诋毁针对他们的批评人士。
Kim Ki-jong, a professed nationalist with a history of erratic outbursts of violence, slashed Mr. Lippert with a kitchen knife during a breakfast meeting last Thursday. The assault left a four-inch gash on Mr. Lippert’s left cheek that required 80 stitches and damaged tendons and nerves in his left hand.
自称民族主义者、曾有暴力前科的金基宗(Kim Ki-jong)在上周四举行的早餐会上用菜刀划伤利伯特，致其左脸颊留下了一道长四英寸（约合10厘米）的伤口，需缝80针，左手肌腱和神经受损。
When the South Korean news media carried images of Mr. Lippert splattered with blood, the public initially reacted with shock. Well-wishers flooded Mr. Lippert’s blog and Twitter account, and they posted messages on signs that conservative activists put up near the United States Embassy in Seoul. The tone of the messages, however, quickly turned into one of guilt and apology.
当韩国媒体公布利伯特满脸流血的图片时，民众最初感到非常震惊。人们纷纷在利伯特的博客和Twitter账号上留下美好祝愿，以及有关保守派活动人士在美国驻首尔大使馆附近张贴的标语的信息。然而，留言很快就开始带上一种内疚和道歉的语气。
In South Korea, mainstream conservative ideology teaches people to regard the United States as a savior that sacrificed the lives of tens of thousands of its soldiers while fighting for the South during the 1950-53 Korean War. Many Koreans, especially those who are older, saw Mr. Kim not only as a senseless criminal but also as an ingrate — the most despised character in Korea’s deeply Confucian culture.
在韩国，主流的保守主义思想教导人们将美国视作救世主，美国曾在1950年至1953年的朝鲜战争中为韩国而战，数以万计的美国士兵阵亡。很多韩国人，特别是年长者，认为金基宗不仅是一个愚蠢的罪犯，还是一个忘恩负义的人——这在韩国根深蒂固的儒家文化中是最被鄙视的。
“So Sorry,” read a banner in front of a lone activist on the street near the hospital where Mr. Lippert was recovering. He said he was re-enacting an ancient Korean custom in which a sinner seeking forgiveness would sit on a straw mat on the street and fast. The man, Shin Dong-wook, is the president’s brother-in-law.
在利伯特接受康复治疗的医院附近的街道上，一名活动人士身前的横幅上写着“非常抱歉”的字样。他表示，他在重新拾起韩国的一种古老习俗——罪人会来到街头，坐在一个草垫上斋戒以求原谅。这名男子是朴槿惠总统的妹夫申东旭（Shin Dong-wook，音）。
On Monday, a crowd of older South Koreans in military uniforms, some with canes, rallied near the American Embassy, urging fellow citizens “not to forget what the Americans did for us during the war” and to “eradicate jongbuk,” or sympathizers with North Korea, who they said were behind the attack on the ambassador.
周一，一群身穿军装的韩国老者聚集在美国大使馆附近，其中一些人还拄着拐杖，他们力劝同胞们“不要忘了美国人在战争中为我们做过的事情”，“铲除从北派”（jongbuk，即朝鲜的支持者。——译注），他们称从北派是大使遭袭事件的幕后主使。
Such sentiments reflected fears that the episode might harm the alliance with Washington.
这些情绪反映出人们担心该事件会损害韩美同盟。
Yet it did not take long for a counterreaction to kick in.
但没过多久就出现了反击的声音。
“This is too much! What they did was almost like god worshiping,” one blogger said. Another compared the wave of “I love America” feelings to shrines that ancient Koreans built to worship China for sending troops to help fight Japanese invaders.
“这太过了！他们简直就像膜拜神一样，”一名博客作者写道。另一名博客作者将这股“我爱美国”热潮与古代韩国人建造供奉中国的圣祠相提并论，当时这样做是为了感谢中国出兵帮助打击日本侵略者。
John Delury, an American professor at Yonsei University in Seoul, said, “South Koreans felt shock and deep sympathy on a personal level for the U.S. ambassador, even a sense of guilt that he suffered this brutal attack as a guest in their country.”
首尔延世大学(Yonsei University)的美国教授鲁乐汉(John Delury)表示，“韩国人在个人层面上感到很震惊，对美国大使深表同情，甚至有种愧疚感，因为他作为这个国家的客人遭到了暴力袭击。”
“But now government officials and political parties are hyper-politicizing what was really an isolated incident,” he said, “linking it to a campaign against ‘pro-North Korea followers’ and as a way to drum up support for the U.S.-South Korean alliance.”
“但现在，政府官员及政党将该事件高度政治化，而这实际上是一起独立事件，”他说。“他们将该事件与反对‘从北派’的行动联系起来，利用此事为美韩同盟争取支持。”
Indeed, Ms. Park and conservative leaders lost no time in insinuating a possible link between Mr. Kim and “jongbuk.” They quickly defined Mr. Kim’s deed as a “terrorist attack on the South Korean-U.S. alliance” — rather than an act by a loner, as initial investigations appeared to suggest — and called for a thorough investigation into “behind-the-scene forces.”
实际上，朴槿惠和保守派领导人立即暗示金基宗与“从北派”之间可能存在联系。他们迅速将金基宗的行为定性为“针对韩美联盟的恐怖袭击”——而不是像初步调查所显示的那样，是个人行为，他们还要求彻查“幕后主使”。
A parade of South Korean leaders, including Ms. Park, visited Mr. Lippert in the hospital. Yet many South Koreans with deep historical grievances toward the United States, especially over the division of the Korean Peninsula into the pro-Soviet North and the pro-American South at the end of World War II, began accusing the government and its conservative supporters of toady “sadaejuyi,” or big-country worship.
包括朴槿惠在内的一些韩国领导人前往医院看望利伯特。但有些对美国早有不满的韩国人——二战结束时朝鲜半岛被分裂为亲苏朝鲜和亲美韩国一事，尤其令他们不满——开始指责政府及其保守派支持者现在推行事大主义(sadaejuyi)。
“I hate the crazy man who stabbed the ambassador, and as a Korean, I feel like apologizing deeply to the Americans,” said Kim Mi-hyun, 36, who watched a group of Christian church members perform a traditional fan dance and kneel in contrition across a boulevard from the American Embassy on Saturday. “But this scene makes me sick at the stomach. They are way overdoing it, and it actually will damage the image of the Americans and the alliance among Koreans.”
“我痛恨那个刺伤大使的疯子，作为一名韩国人，我对美国人深感抱歉，”36岁的金美贤（Kim Mi-hyun，音）在周六接受采访时说。“但这种景象让我觉得不舒服。他们做过头了，这实际上会破坏美国人和韩美联盟在韩国人心中的形象。”她一边说，一边看着美国大使馆对面的一群基督教会成员，他们在表演传统的扇子舞，并下跪以示懊悔。
The police have charged Mr. Kim, with attempted murder. But they are also said to be investigating whether they could charge him with violating the country’s National Security Law. On Monday, the main opposition party, New Politics Alliance for Democracy, said the government was using the law and Mr. Kim’s case to “hunt ‘jongbuk.’ ”
警方指控金基宗谋杀未遂。但据称，警方正在开展调查，以查明是否可以指控他违反该国的《国家安全法》(National Security Law)。周一，主要反对党新政治民主联合(New Politics Alliance for Democracy)表示，政府在利用这部法律及金基宗的案件“围剿‘从北派’”。
David Straub, a former United States diplomat who served in the embassy in Seoul, said that invoking the National Security Law to deal with Mr. Kim seemed to be “unwisely elevating the violent behavior of one deranged person and ascribing to it a significance it does not deserve.”
曾在美国驻首尔大使馆任职的美国外交官戴维·斯特劳布(David Straub)表示，利用《国家安全法》处理金基宗的案件似乎会“提升一个疯子的暴力行为的重要性，令事件受到不该有的关注，这是不明智的”。