WASHINGTON — Five months before a United Nations summit meeting aimed at forging a historic global accord to cut climate-warming emissions, significant signs of progress toward an agreement are emerging.
华盛顿——联合国将在五个月后召开峰会，以期达成一项削减温室气体排放的历史性全球协议。目前出现了一些重要迹象，显示该协议在成功签订的道路上取得了进展。
China, the world’s largest greenhouse gas polluter, submitted a 16-page plan to the United Nations on Tuesday detailing how it plans to shift its economy to reduce fossil fuel emissions by 2030. On the same day, President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil, which is among the top 10 carbon emitters, and President Obama announced in Washington that their nations had agreed to sharply expand electricity generation from renewable sources.
中国是世界上最大的温室气体排放国。本周二，它向联合国提交了一份16页的方案，详细介绍了它计划如何转变经济增长方式，从而到2030年时开始减少化石燃料的排放。同一天，巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)和美国总统奥巴马也在华盛顿宣布，两国达成一致，将大幅扩大可再生能源发电的比例。巴西位居碳排放量排名前十的国家之列。
But it is increasingly evident that the policy actions by these countries and others will not be enough to stave off a rise in the atmospheric temperature of 2 degrees Celsius, or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit. At that point, scientists say, the planet will be locked into a future of extreme storms, droughts, food and water shortages, and rising sea levels.
但有越来越多的证据表明，这些国家采取的政策行动还不足以避免气温上升2摄氏度。科学家们表示，升温超过2度的话，地球无疑会在未来遭遇极端风暴、干旱、食物和水源短缺，以及海平面的不断上升。
Under a United Nations accord reached in Peru last December, every nation is to submit a plan for cutting carbon emissions well ahead of the December summit meeting in Paris. The plans by the individual nations will form the core of the new agreement.
去年12月在秘鲁达成的一项联合国协议要求，在今年12月的巴黎峰会前，各国要留出充裕的时间来提交一份削减自身碳排放的计划。各个国家的计划将构成新协议的核心。
South Korea, Serbia and Iceland also submitted their plans for cutting emissions on Tuesday, joining the 40 or so countries that had already done so, including Canada, Mexico, Russia and the United States, along with the European Union.
本周二，韩国、塞尔维亚和冰岛也提交了各自的排放削减计划。此前，包括加拿大、墨西哥、俄罗斯、美国和欧盟国家在内，已有超过40个国家提交计划。
And in the joint announcement by Brazil and the United States, the two nations committed to increasing the use of wind, solar and geothermal energy to make up 20 percent of each country’s electricity production by 2030, which would double power generation from renewable sources in Brazil and triple it in the United States. Brazil also pledged to restore nearly 30 million acres of Amazon rain forest, an area about the size of Pennsylvania.
巴西和美国在联合声明中表示，两国致力于让风能、太阳能和地热能发电量在2030年占到各自总发电量的20%。这意味着，巴西需要增加一倍的可再生能源发电比例，美国则需要增加两倍。巴西还承诺恢复近3000万英亩（约合12.15万平方公里）的亚马逊雨林，相当于宾夕法尼亚州的面积。
“Following progress during my trips to China and India, this shows that the world’s major economies can begin to transcend some of the old divides and work together to confront the common challenge that we face — something that we have to work on for future generations,” said Mr. Obama, who has pushed other countries to sign on to a climate change deal.
“继我在中国和印度之行取得的成果之后，这是又一项进步，表明世界主要经济体可以逐步跨越一些以前的鸿沟，携手应对我们面临的共同挑战——这是我们必须为子孙后代努力的事情，”奥巴马说。他本人一直在推动其他国家加入到气候变化协议中来。
Christiana Figueres, the top United Nations climate change official, said, “Over the past 24 hours, we’ve seen a very nice example of the diversity of countries engaging on the climate solution.” But she added, “The sum total of these does not get us to 2 degrees.”
联合国负责气候变化领域的最高官员克里斯蒂安娜·菲格雷斯(Christiana Figueres)表示，“过去24小时里，在国家参与气候问题解决方案的多样性上，我们看到了一个很好的例子。”但她还说，“这些措施合起来还是不足以达到把升温控制在2度以内的目标。”
Climate policy experts pointed to the significance of China’s plan in particular. The United States and China, the world’s top greenhouse gas polluters, have long been viewed as the biggest obstacles to reaching a meaningful global warming deal. That changed last November when Mr. Obama and President Xi Jinping jointly announced that the United States would lower its emissions up to 28 percent from 2005 levels by 2025, while China’s emissions would peak and then decline no later than 2030.
气候政策专家特别指出了中国提出的计划的重要性。美国和中国是世界前两位的温室气体排放国，长期以来一直被视为达成有关全球变暖的重要协议所面临的最大阻碍。但这种情况在去年11月发生了改变。当时，奥巴马与习近平共同宣布，美国将以2005年为基准，在2025年实现至多28%的减排目标，而中国的排放将在不迟于2030年的时间点达到峰值，然后开始减少。
In March, Mr. Obama submitted a plan to the United Nations detailing how the United States would meet its target. It said it would do so chiefly through enactment of Environmental Protection Agency regulations on emissions from cars, trucks and power plants.
今年3月，奥巴马向联合国提交了计划，详细说明了美国将如何完成目标。文中称，美国采用的主要途径将是国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)制定的针对汽车、卡车及发电站排放量的监管规定。
China’s plan included a broad commitment to decouple economic growth from the use of fossil fuels, and said that the nation would move to lower its carbon intensity, or the amount of the pollutant generated by each point of economic growth, by 60 to 65 percent from 2005 levels by 2030. It also laid out plans to develop a national cap-and-trade system, a market-based program for reducing emissions in which companies must pay for permits to pollute, and can buy and sell those permits among themselves.
中国的计划包括一项概括性的承诺，即减少经济增长对使用化石燃料的依赖，并称中国会采取举措确保到2030年左右碳排放强度——单位经济增长所产生的排放量——比2005年下降60%到65%。中国还制定了创建一个全国性碳排放配额与交易机制的计划。这是一个基于市场的减排制度，其中各家企业必须购买污染配额，并可以在市场上互相买卖。
“It demonstrates the depth of climate policy architecture,” said David Sandalow, a fellow at the Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University and a former top Energy Department official in the Obama administration. “It’s very detailed and suggests the seriousness with which China takes its climate policy goals.”
“这说明了气候政策机制的深度，”哥伦比亚大学全球能源政策中心(Center on Global Energy Policy at Columbia University)研究员、曾在奥巴马政府任能源部高级官员的戴维·B·桑德罗(David B. Sandalow)说。“计划非常详细，表明中国很重视自己的气候政策目标。”
In his first term, Mr. Obama tried unsuccessfully to push a similar cap-and-trade system through Congress.
在第一任期内，奥巴马曾试图推动国会通过类似的碳排放配额与交易制度，但以失败告终。
“There is a lot of irony that the U.S., which invented free-market approaches to stopping climate change, is using command-and-control regulations while Communist China will use a carbon market,” said Paul Bledsoe, a top climate change official in the administration of former President Bill Clinton.
曾在比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)政府担任气候变化高级官员的保罗·布莱索(Paul Bledsoe)说，“美国创造了通过自由市场机制来阻止气候变化的方法，但现在利用的是指令加控制的政府监管模式，而共产党领导的中国却将利用碳市场。这里面有很深的讽刺意味。”
But Brazil, despite its announcement on Tuesday, has not yet submitted its climate plan to the United Nations, and several other major polluting economies, including India and Japan, also have not. In any event, climate policy experts say it is almost certain that their plans will not add up to strong enough action to curb the harmful effects of climate change.
尽管巴西在周二发布了公告，但该国尚未向联合国提交自身的气候计划，包括印度和日本等在内的几个排放大国也没提交。气候政策专家表示，无论如何，几乎可以肯定的是，各国的计划加起来并不足以形成遏制气候变化有害影响的强有力的行动。
Ms. Figueres and other United Nations negotiators say they now see the Paris accord as a first step in a multiyear process in which countries will put forth domestic climate policies and reconvene regularly to make their plans more stringent.
菲格雷斯及联合国的其他一些谈判代表表示，他们如今认为，各个国家会提出各自的国内气候政策，并通过定期开会来制定更加严格的计划，而巴黎协议将是这个多年历程踏出的第一步。
“It’s not a one-shot deal,” she said. “It’s like a highway, with each country going in the lane with the speed that they can go. Some will start out slowly and speed up later. It will be a progressive process over time.”
“这不是一蹴而就的事情，”她说。“这就像是一条公路，每个国家都以适合自身的速度在这条路上前行。一些可能起步晚，后来居上。这是一个随着时间的推移而逐渐进步的过程。”
One hurdle to a deal is Republican lawmakers’ longstanding opposition to participation in a global climate change deal. They say that such a plan could hurt the American economy, while allowing other countries to continue to pollute at higher levels. Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, who is the chairman of the Senate Environment Committee, said he was deeply skeptical of China’s plan.
国际协议面临的一大障碍是，共和党议员长期反对美国参与全球气候变化协议。他们称，此类计划会给美国经济带来不利影响，同时又允许其他国家继续保持较高的排放水平。参议院环境委员会( Senate Environment Committee)主席、来自俄克拉何马州的共和党人詹姆斯·M·英霍夫(James M. Inhofe)表示，他对中国的计划深感怀疑。
“China’s commitment to reduce carbon emissions is unattainable and unrealistic,” Mr. Inhofe said in a statement. “China’s commitment will allow the country to continue increasing its emissions for the next 15 years.”
“中国做出的削减碳排放的承诺难以兑现、不切实际，”英霍夫发表声明称。“中国的承诺使该国能在未来15年里继续增加排放量。”
Money is another major obstacle. In 2009, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton pledged that by 2020, developed economies would send $100 billion annually, from both public and private sources, to developing economies to help them adapt to the ravages of climate change. This year, the United Nations has sought to establish a $10 billion “Green Climate Fund” to help begin that fund-raising effort.
钱是另一个主要障碍。2009年，时任美国国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)承诺，在2020年前，发达国家将通过公共和私人来源每年向发展中国家提供1000亿美元的资金，帮助它们适应气候变化造成的破坏。今年，联合国力求设立一个规模达100亿美元的绿色气候基金(Green Climate Fund)，以帮助启动上述筹资活动。