LONDON — Demands grew on Monday for the British government to explain why it had used antiterrorism powers to detain the partner of a journalist who has written about surveillance programs based on leaks by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden.
伦敦——要求英国政府解释为什么动用反恐权力拘留一名记者伴侣的呼声周一在增长，这位记者写过有关美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)监听项目的文章，用的是安全局前承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露的材料。
David Michael Miranda, a Brazilian citizen and the partner of the American journalist Glenn Greenwald, who lives in Brazil, was held Sunday at London’s Heathrow Airport for nine hours, the maximum allowed by law, before being released without charge.
巴西公民戴维·迈克尔·米兰达(David Michael Miranda)，是美国记者格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)的伴侣，后者现居巴西。米兰达周日在伦敦希斯罗机场被扣留了9个小时，这是法律允许的最长扣留时间，之后被释放，没有对他提出指控。
“They were threatening me all the time and saying I would be put in jail if I didn’t co-operate,” Mr. Miranda said Tuesday in an interview with The Guardian newspaper, where Mr. Greenwald is a columnist. “They treated me like I was a criminal or someone about to attack the U.K.”
米兰达在周二接受《卫报》(The Guardian)采访时说，“他们一直在威胁我，说如果我不合作就会被关进监狱。他们对待我的态度就好像我是个罪犯，或是个将要袭击英国的人。”格林沃尔德是《卫报》的专栏作家。
On its Web site, The Guardian said the interview was the first since Mr. Miranda returned to his home in Rio de Janeiro on Monday. “It was exhausting and frustrating, but I knew I wasn’t doing anything wrong,” Mr. Miranda said. Speaking separately on Monday, he said that all of his electronic equipment, including his laptop computer and cellphone, had been confiscated. In the interview, he added that he was not allowed to call his partner, who is a qualified lawyer in the United States, nor was he given an interpreter, despite being promised one because he felt uncomfortable speaking in a second language.
《卫报》在其网站上称，他们的采访是米兰达于周一返回位于里约热内卢的家中后接受的第一次采访。米兰达说，“扣留让我精疲力尽而且感觉很沮丧，但是我知道我没做错任何事情。”他周一另外提到，他所有的电子设备，包括便携电脑和手机都被没收了。他在采访中补充说，他还被禁止给自己的伴侣打电话，后者拥有美国的律师资格，而且虽然英国曾许诺给他找一名口译员，因为他对用外语说话感到不便，但是没有那样做。
Mr. Miranda was traveling from Berlin to Rio de Janeiro. In Berlin, he had met with Laura Poitras, an American filmmaker who has worked with Mr. Greenwald on the Snowden leaks about secret American and British surveillance programs that they argue violate individual rights and liberties.
米兰达当时是从柏林飞往里约热内卢。他在柏林曾与美国电影制作人劳拉·普瓦塔斯(Laura Poitras)见面，普瓦塔斯与格林沃尔德在报道斯诺登泄露美国和英国监听项目上有合作，他们称监听项目违反了个人权利和自由。
In an e-mail Monday to The Associated Press, Mr. Greenwald said that he needed material from Ms. Poitras for articles he was working on related to the N.S.A., and that he had things she needed. “David, since he was in Berlin, helped with that exchange,” Mr. Greenwald wrote.
格林沃尔德在周一写给美联社(Associated Press)的一封电子邮件中表示，他正在写一篇关于国家安全局的文章，需要从普瓦塔斯那里得到一些材料，而他也有普瓦塔斯需要的材料。格林沃尔德写道，“因为戴维在柏林，所以他就为这次交换帮了个忙。”
Keith Vaz, an opposition Labour Party legislator who is chairman of Parliament’s Home Affairs select committee, said he had written to the head of London’s Metropolitan Police Service, which has jurisdiction in the matter, to ask for clarification of what he called an extraordinary case.
英国议会内政事务特别委员会主席、反对党工党(Labour Party)议员基思·瓦斯(Keith Vaz)说，他已经就此事给有管辖权的伦敦警察厅(Metropolitan Police Service)厅长写信，要求澄清这一被他称之为不同寻常的案件。
“What needs to happen pretty rapidly is, we need to establish the full facts,” he told the BBC. “Now you have a complaint from Mr. Greenwald and the Brazilian government — they indeed have said they are concerned at the use of terrorism legislation for something that does not appear to relate to terrorism. So it needs to be clarified, and clarified quickly.”
他对BBC说，“我们需要尽快做的，是建立完整的事实。现在格林沃尔德和巴西政府已经投诉，他们的确说他们表示关切，因为在这件与恐怖主义似乎不相干的事上动用了恐怖主义立法。所以需要澄清这件事，而且要尽快澄清。”
The editor of The Guardian, Alan Rusbridger, disclosed on Monday that the British government had sent officials from Government Communications Headquarters, which is known as GCHQ and is the British version of the National Security Agency, to the newspaper’s offices in London to destroy computers containing documents leaked by Mr. Snowden. Mr. Rusbridger said that he had protested that the same information was available elsewhere, but that the officials had insisted on proceeding.
《卫报》主编阿兰·拉斯布里杰(Alan Rusbridger)在周一披露，英国政府曾派政府通讯总部（Government Communications Headquarters，简称GCHQ）的官员到该报在伦敦的办公室，销毁了存有斯诺登泄露资料的电脑。GCHQ是与美国国家安全局同等的英国机构。拉斯布里杰说，他对该行动表示抗议，指出同样的信息可以在其他地方得到，但那些官员依然坚持行动。
“And so one of the more bizarre moments in The Guardian’s long history occurred — with two GCHQ security experts overseeing the destruction of hard drives in The Guardian’s basement just to make sure there was nothing in the mangled bits of metal which could possibly be of any interest to passing Chinese agents,” he wrote, adding, “We will continue to do patient, painstaking reporting on the Snowden documents, we just won’t do it in London.”
他写道，“于是，《卫报》漫长历史上一个让人最囧的时刻出现了：两名GCHQ安全专家，在《卫报》地下室中监督销毁这些硬盘，以确保这些支离破碎的金属片不再含有任何会让过路的中国间谍感兴趣的东西。”他补充写道，“我们将一如既往，耐心不懈地对斯诺登的材料进行报道，我们只是不再在伦敦做而已。”
The police said in a statement that Mr. Miranda, 28, had been lawfully detained under Schedule 7 of Britain’s Terrorism Act 2000, which allows them to stop and question people traveling through ports and airports to determine whether they are involved in planning terrorist acts.
警方在一份声明中称，根据英国《2000 年反恐怖法》(Terrorism Act 2000)第7条款，对现年28岁的米兰达进行了合法扣留，该条款允许警察拦截和问询经过港口和机场的旅客，以确定他们是否涉参与策划恐怖主义活动。
Mr. Miranda told The Guardian that, as his flight from Berlin approached London, “there was an announcement on the plane that everyone had to show their passports. The minute I stepped out of the plane they took me away to a small room with four chairs and a machine for taking fingerprints.”
米兰达告诉《卫报》，在他乘坐的从柏林飞往伦敦的航班快要降落时，“机上广播通知每个人必须出示护照。我一下飞机就被他们带到一个小房间里，里面有四把椅子和一个提取指纹的机器。”
His carry-on bags were searched, The Guardian quoted Mr. Miranda as saying, and police confiscated a computer, two thumb drives, an external hard drive and several other electronic items, including a games console, as well two newly bought watches and phones that were packaged and boxed in his checked luggage.
《卫报》援引米兰达的话说，他的随身行李遭到搜查，警方没收了一台电脑、两个优盘、一个外置硬盘，以及几件其他电子设备，包括一台游戏机，还有两块新买的手表和手机，后者是从他的托运行李中找到的，还都在包装盒中。
“They got me to tell them the passwords for my computer and mobile phone,” Mr. Miranda said. “They said I was obliged to answer all their questions and used the words ‘prison’ and ‘station’ all the time.”
米兰达说，“他们要我告诉他们我电脑和手机的密码。他们说我必须回答他们所有的问题，还不停地使用‘监狱’和‘警察局’这些词儿。”
Mr. Vaz and his party said they wanted to know how the government could justify using Schedule 7 in this case, arguing that any suggestion that antiterrorism powers had been misused could undermine public support for those powers.
瓦斯及其所在的工党称，他们想知道政府凭什么在这一事件中动用了第7条款，他们指出，任何反恐权力被滥用的暗示，都会削弱公众对这些权力的支持。
A Home Office spokesman said Monday that the detention was an operational police matter and that neither he nor the police would provide any details.
英国内政部(Home Office)一位发言人周一说，这次扣留事关警方操作，他和警方都不能提供任何细节。
A White House spokesman, Josh Earnest, told reporters Monday that the British government had given the United States notice that it intended to detain Mr. Miranda when his plane landed, but that there had been no American request to do so.
白宫(White House)发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)周一告诉记者，英国政府曾通知美国，称要在米兰达乘坐的飞机降落后拘留他，但美国未曾要求英国这么做。
He and other administration officials declined to say on Monday whether the British had given the United States government any of the electronic materials seized from Mr. Miranda.
他和其他政府官员在周一拒绝透露英国是否把从米兰达那里没收的任何电子材料转交给了美国政府。
Mr. Miranda arrived Monday in Rio de Janeiro and was greeted by Mr. Greenwald, who said that in response to the detention, he planned “to write much more aggressively than before” about government snooping.
米兰达在周一到达里约热内卢后被格林沃尔德接走，格林沃尔德说，作为对这次扣留的回应，他打算“要比以前更积极地写”有关政府监听的文章。
“I’m going to publish many more things about England as well,” he said. “I have many documents about the system of espionage of England, and now my focus will be there, too. I think they’ll regret what they’ve done.”
他说，“我还会发表更多有关英国的文章。我手中有很多关于英国间谍系统的材料，那将是我关注的重点。我认为他们会后悔做了那件事。”
Mr. Miranda told reporters in Rio on Monday that all of the documents encrypted on the thumb drives came from the trove of materials provided by Mr. Snowden.
米兰达周一在里约热内卢对记者说，保存在优盘上的所有加密文件都来自斯诺登提供的大量材料。
Nick Cohen, a columnist for the conservative weekly The Spectator, wrote on Monday that the detention of Mr. Miranda was “a clarifying moment that reveals how far Britain has changed for the worse.”
保守派周刊《旁观者》(Spectator)的一名专栏作家尼克·科恩(Nick Cohen)在周一写道，扣留米兰达“清楚地反映出英国每况愈下的情况有多糟糕”。
Nearly everyone, Mr. Cohen wrote, suspects that the police held Mr. Miranda “on trumped-up charges because the police, at the behest of the Americans, wanted to intimidate Miranda’s partner, Glenn Greenwald, the conduit of Edward Snowden’s revelations, and find out whether more embarrassing information is on Greenwald’s laptop.”
科恩写道，几乎所有人都怀疑警察扣留米兰达“是按美国的指令行事，用的是捏造的指控，目的是威胁米兰达的伴侣格伦·格林沃尔德，因为格林沃尔德为爱德华·斯诺登泄密提供了渠道，警方还想查查格林沃尔德的手提电脑上是否还有更令人尴尬的东西”。
He criticized the police for saying so little about the case, and concluded: “The next time they try to tell you that the secrecy and attempts to silence legitimate debate are ‘in the public interest,’ do not forget what they did to David Miranda, because they can do it to you, too.”
他批评警方对这件事解释甚少，并总结道，“下次他们试着告诉你，保密和禁止合法辩论的尝试，是‘为了公众利益’的做法时，别忘了他们是如何对待米兰达的，因为他们也可能那样对待你。”