SHAW AIR FORCE BASE, S.C. — The United States is shifting more attack and surveillance aircraft from Afghanistan to the air war against the Islamic State, deepening U.S. involvement in the conflict and raising new challenges for the military planners who work here in central South Carolina, far from the targets they will pick for those aircraft.
南卡罗来纳州肖空军基地——美国正在将更多攻击机和侦察机从阿富汗转移至打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的空中战场。此举表明美国进一步介入了冲突，给在南卡罗来纳州中部工作的作战计划制定者带来了新的挑战，他们要为那些飞机挑选远方的目标。
A dozen A-10 ground-attack planes have recently moved from Afghanistan to Kuwait, where they are to start flying missions supporting Iraqi ground troops as early as this week, military officials said. About half a dozen missile-firing Reaper drones will also be redeployed from Afghanistan in the next several weeks.
最近，12架A-10攻击机已从阿富汗转移至科威特。军方官员称，它们最早将于本周开始执行飞行任务，协助伊拉克地面部队。未来几周，大约六架能发射导弹的“死神”无人机也将调离阿富汗。
Perhaps nowhere outside the Middle East do the additional aircraft have a more direct impact than at this Air Force base, which has become a leading symbol of the military's ability to carry out global operations from afar.
增加飞机的行动对这处空军基地造成的直接影响，是任何中东地区以外的地方都不能及的。该基地已经成了美国军队从远方执行全球任务的能力的首要象征。
But while the Air Force personnel who help plan airstrikes against the Islamic State from here will have more firepower to bring to bear, they face an unusual enemy — a hybrid between a conventional army and a terrorist network that has not proven to be an easy target for American airpower.
该基地的人员在这里协助为打击伊斯兰国的空袭制定计划。尽管能调动更多火力，但他们面临着一个不同寻常的敌人——由一支正规军和一个已经证明不易被美国的空中力量击中的恐怖主义网络掺杂在一起的组织。
“When we target a nation-state, we've typically been looking at their capability for decades, and have extensive target sets,” said Maj. Sonny Alberdeston, the targeting chief here. “But these guys are moving around. They can be in one place, and then a week later, they're gone.”
“当目标是某个民族国家时，我们通常已经对其能力进行了数十年的观察，并且有大量目标集，”该基地负责确定目标的桑尼·阿尔贝德斯顿少校(Sonny Alberdeston)说。“但这一帮人到处乱跑。他们可能出现在某个地方，一周后就不见了。”
Just as the Pentagon flies its wartime fleet of Predator and Reaper drones from bases in Nevada and elsewhere across the United States, this rear headquarters of the Central Command's air forces carries out the bulk of the work to analyze and select planned, or deliberate, targets that allied warplanes strike in Syria and Iraq.
就在五角大楼从内华达州和全国其他地方调派“捕食者”和“死神”无人机机群时，这里的中央司令部(Central Command)空军后方总部进行了大量工作，分析和挑选计划中的，即有意对其发起攻击的目标。这些目标与叙利亚和伊拉克的空袭相互配合。
The targets are fixed sites like military headquarters and communications centers, oil refineries, training camps, troop barracks and weapons depots — in short, everything the Islamic State needs to sustain its fight.
相关目标是固定场所，比如军队的总部和通讯中心、炼油厂、训练营、兵营和武器库，简而言之，就是伊斯兰国持续战斗所需的一切。
More than 7,000 miles away at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar, in the Persian Gulf, another group of analysts and targeting specialists focuses on so-called pop-up targets — convoys of militants or heavy weaponry on the move.
在逾7000英里（约合11300公里）外的波斯湾，卡塔尔乌代德空军基地(Al Udeid Air Base)的另一群分析师和目标锁定专家专攻所谓的“突现式”目标，即正在行进中的武装分子车队或重武器。
These have been the top priority of the three-month campaign, even though only about one out of every four aircraft missions sent to attack them has dropped its bombs. The rest of the missions have returned to the base, failing to find a target they were permitted to hit under the strict rules of engagement designed to avoid civilian casualties.
这些一直是这场已持续三个月的行动的重中之重，但派去执行攻击任务的飞机中，只有大约四分之一投放了炸弹。其他飞机因为没找到获准攻击的目标，便遵照旨在避免造成平民伤亡的严格作战规定，返回了基地。
Of the 450 strikes in Syria through last week, about 25 percent were planned, military officials said. Of the 540 strikes in Iraq through the same period, there were even fewer — only 5 percent of the total.
军事官员称，截至上周在叙利亚实施的450次空袭中，只有25%是有计划的。同一时期在伊拉克发生的540次空袭中，有计划的袭击比例更小，仅为5%。
Critics complain that the air campaign is flagging against an adaptive enemy.
批评人士抱怨，面对适应能力极强的对手，空袭行动的威力正在减弱。
“We need to have more targeting capability than they have right now,” said Sen. James M. Inhofe of Oklahoma, the senior Republican on the Armed Services Committee, who recently returned from Jordan, where several countries are using a base to fly combat missions against the Islamic State.
“我们目前需要比他们拥有更强的目标定位能力，”参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)的共和党资深委员、来自俄克拉何马州的詹姆斯·M·英霍夫(James M. Inhofe)说。他最近刚刚从约旦回国。多个国家目前正利用约旦的一处基地对伊斯兰国实施空中打击。
Every afternoon here in South Carolina, Col. Scott F. Murray, the senior intelligence officer at the base and a veteran of earlier air campaigns in Iraq, Afghanistan and Kosovo, convenes his top staff members to review targets: just completed, about to happen, and future strikes.
在南卡罗来纳州的这个地方，每天下午，基地的高级情报官员斯科特·F·默里(Scott F. Murray)都会召集手下的高级官员，重新评估打击目标：刚刚完成、即将实施，还是未来才会实施。默里此前参加过在伊拉克、阿富汗和科索沃的空袭行动。
Some targets are automatically off-limits, such as dams, schools and hospitals. Several dozen come with restrictions, like rules that say they can be attacked only at night, when presumably no people are around. At any given time, there are fewer than 100 targets on the list that have been approved to be hit.
有些目标是理所当然的禁区，比如大坝、学校和医院。另外几十个目标的打击则受到限制，比如，打击只能在夜间进行，因为那时周围没什么人。在任何时候，列表上经过批准的打击目标都不会超过100个。
Planners at Al Udeid work down that list, matching up specific aircraft and specific weapons best suited to destroy or disable a target with minimum risk to civilians, officials said.
官员称，乌代德空军基地的规划人员根据这个列表，把具体的飞机和具体的武器进行组合，使其成为摧毁或破坏一个目标的最佳选择，同时把平民承担的风险降到最低。
Working at computers in cubicles in nondescript offices, analysts examine lists of suggested targets or other “points of interest” offered by the CIA, U.S. military intelligence agencies, allied spy organizations or Iraqi forces themselves.
在不起眼的办公室里，分析师们在格子间里的电脑上工作着，研究由CIA、美国军事情报机构、同盟间谍机构或伊拉克部队本身建议的打击目标或是其他“兴趣点”。
The analysts check to see if the targets are legitimate, fit the priorities of Gen. Lloyd J. Austin III, the head of the Central Command, and can be struck without risking civilian casualties. They use sophisticated computer programs to determine which weapon and which approach to the target will cause the least risk to civilians.
分析师们会确认这些目标是否合法，是否属于中央司令部司令劳埃德·奥斯汀三世(Lloyd Austin III)上将的重点目标，能否在打击的同时不造成平民伤亡。他们利用复杂的计算机程序，来确定哪些武器和方法对平民的威胁最小。