WASHINGTON — Ending three years of brinkmanship in which the threat of a devastating default on the nation’s debt was used to wring conservative concessions from President Obama, the House on Tuesday voted to raise the government’s borrowing limit until March 2015, without any conditions.
华盛顿——众议院周二投票通过了在2015年3月之前无条件提高政府债务上限的法案，结束了一段长达三年的边缘策略，这种策略意在用政府债务违约的可能性迫使奥巴马总统做出保守让步。
The vote — 221 to 201 — relied almost entirely on Democrats in the Republican-controlled House to carry the measure and represented the first debt ceiling increase since 2009 that was not attached to other legislation. Only 28 Republicans voted yes, and only two Democrats voted no.
这次投票结果——221票比201票——几乎完全依靠由共和党控制的众议院的民主党人的支持，是2009年以来首次没有附带其他法案的债务上限提高法案。只有28名共和党人投了赞成票，2名民主党人投了反对票。
Simply by holding the vote, Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio effectively ended a three-year Tea Party-inspired era of budget showdowns that had raised the threat of default and government shutdowns, rattled economic confidence and brought serious scrutiny from other nations questioning Washington’s ability to govern. In the process, though, Mr. Boehner also set off a series of reprisals from fellow Republican congressmen and outside groups that showcased the party’s deep internal divisions.
通过举行这次投票，来自俄亥俄州的众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)事实上就终结了茶党引发的、长达三年的预算大战。这场预算大战加剧了违约和政府停摆的风险，动摇了人们对美国经济的信心，引来其他质疑华盛顿执政能力的国家的严肃审视。不过，在这一过程中，博纳也触发了一系列来自共和党议员和外部组织的报复行动，显示出该党内部的深度分歧。
“He gave the president exactly what he wanted, which is exactly what the Republican Party said we did not want,” said a Republican representative, Tim Huelskamp of Kansas, who last year unsuccessfully tried to rally enough support to derail Mr. Boehner’s re-election as speaker. “And so again, when you give Nancy Pelosi exactly the votes she wants, she’s going to be happy to take it. But it’s going to really demoralize the base.”
堪萨斯州共和党众议员蒂姆·许尔斯卡普(Tim Huelskamp)说，“他的所作所为正是总统想要的，也正是共和党明确表示不希望看到的。”许尔斯卡普去年曾试图获得足够的支持以阻碍博纳连任议长，但未能成功。“因此，还是那句话，当你给了南希·佩洛西(Nancy Pelosi)她想要的选票，她将欣然接受。但是这真的会让本方泄气。”
The vote was a victory for President Obama, Democrats and those Senate Republicans who have argued that spending money for previously incurred obligations was essential for the financial standing of the federal government. “Tonight’s vote is a positive step in moving away from the political brinkmanship that’s a needless drag on our economy,” Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said in a statement.
这次投票的结果是奥巴马总统、民主党人以及一些共和党参议员的一次胜利。这些共和党参议员认为，偿还以往的债务对联邦政府的财政地位至关重要。白宫新闻发言人杰伊·卡尼(Jay Carney)在声明中说，“今晚的投票是向摆脱政治边缘政策迈出的积极一步。政治边缘主义正在对我们的经济造成不必要的拖累。”
But outside Republican groups were sharply critical of the speaker. Both the Club for Growth and Heritage Action for America, for example, had put out a “key vote” alert urging members to vote against the measure.
但在共和党的组织之外则能听到对这名议长的尖锐批评。例如，“增长俱乐部”(Club for Growth)和美国遗产行动(Heritage Action for America)都发出了“重要”投票提醒，要求其成员反对该措施。
“A clean debt ceiling is a complete capitulation on the speaker’s part and demonstrates that he has lost the ability to lead the House of Representatives, let alone his own party,” said Jenny Beth Martin, co-founder of the Tea Party Patriots. “It is time for him to go.”
茶党爱国者(Tea Party Patriots)的联合创办者珍妮·贝丝·马丁(Jenny Beth Martin)说，“干净的债务上限是博纳的彻底投降，证明他已经失去了领导众议院的能力，更不用说领导他的政党了。到了他该卸任的时候了。”
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, commended the speaker and promised to pass the bill as soon as possible. “We’re happy to see the House is legislating the way they should have legislated for a long time,” he said.
参议院多数党领袖哈里·里德(Harry Reid)对博纳表示赞赏，并承诺尽快通过法案。“我们很高兴看到众议院通过该法案，他们早就该这么做了。”
Mr. Boehner stunned House Republicans on Tuesday morning when he dropped a package that would have tied the debt ceiling increase to a repeal of cuts to military retirement pensions that had been approved in December and announced he would put a “clean” debt ceiling increase up for a vote.
博纳于周二抛出了将提高债务上限和撤销对12月通过的军事退休养老金的削减绑定在一起的一揽子方案，并且宣布他将对一个“干净”的提高债务上限法案进行投票时，众议院的共和党人都惊呆了。
Enough Republicans had balked at that package when it was presented Monday night to convince the speaker he had no choice but to turn to the Democratic minority.
周一晚上这一法案被提出时，共和党人否决了这个方案，目的是让博纳确信，他别无选择，只能向少数党民主党求助。
For Mr. Boehner it was a potentially momentous decision. Conservative activists, including The Tea Party Patriots, FreedomWorks, L. Brent Bozell’s ForAmerica and commentators on the website RedState.com are all circulating petitions to end Mr. Boehner’s speakership.
对于博纳来说，这是一个潜在的重大决定。保守派的活动人士，包括茶党爱国者、自由事业(FreedomWorks)、L·布伦特·波萨尔(L. Brent Bozell)的为了美国(For America)以及RedState.com网站的评论员们，都在传阅弹劾博纳议长的请愿书。
And it was Mr. Boehner who raised such high expectations around the debt limit. In 2011, he established what has become known as the “Boehner Rule”: any debt ceiling increase was supposed to be offset by an equivalent spending cut.
然而，引发了对债务上限如此高期待的正是博纳。2011年，他建立了如今人称“博纳规则”的原则：只要提高了债务上限，就必须通过相应的支出削减予以抵消。
“This is a lost opportunity,” the speaker conceded. “We could have sat down and worked together in a bipartisan manner to find cuts and reforms that are greater than increasing the debt limit. I am disappointed, to say the least.”
这位议长承认说，“这是错失良机了。我们本来可以坐下来，共同以两党的方式找出削减支出和改革的办法，这比提高债务上限好多了。至少可以说，我很失望。”
The ramifications for Mr. Boehner are unclear. The speaker’s supporters commended him for shepherding through an increase in the government’s borrowing authority quickly and with as little damage as could be expected for his party, for the economy and the country. They said President Obama left leaders no choice once he dug in and refused to negotiate a deficit reduction deal attached to a debt-ceiling increase.
目前还不清楚博纳会受到什么影响。他的支持者赞赏他迅速带领众人实现了政府借款授权的提高，尽可能减少了对他所在的政党、经济和政府的影响。他们说，奥巴马总统一旦固执己见，并且拒绝就与提高债务上限相关的减赤协议进行谈判，就让参众两院的领袖别无选择。
The 28 Republicans who supported the bill were a coalition cobbled together from Republican leadership, moderates, and retiring members. Notably, however, not all of the top Republican leadership team voted for the measure — Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington, the No. 4 House Republican, and Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the party’s 2012 vice-presidential nominee, both voted “no.”
支持法案的28名共和党人由共和党领袖、温和派，以及即将退休的议员拼凑而成。不过，值得注意的是，并不是所有共和党的最高领导曾都支持了该法案——共和党在众议院的四号人物、华盛顿州众议员凯西·麦克莫里斯·罗杰斯(Cathy McMorris Rodgers)，以及该党2012年的副总统候选人、威斯康星州的保罗∙D∙瑞安(Paul D.Ryan)，都投了反对票。
That left allies of the speaker fuming that political considerations had left Republicans with no policy cover to accompany the debt ceiling increase.
因此，博纳的盟友愤怒地说，政治上的考虑让共和党人失去了支持提高债务上限的政策掩护。
Representative Ted Yoho, a freshman Republican from Florida who voted in his first days in office to depose Mr. Boehner, was in a forgiving mood.
来自佛罗里达州的泰德·尤霍(Ted Yoho)刚刚成为共和党众议员，他上任没多久就投票弹劾博纳。他对目前的状况表示理解。
“With that many people and that many personalities in there, it’s hard to bring them all together on a common cause,” he shrugged.
他耸肩说，“那么多人，那么多大人物，很难把他们全聚在一起，专注地共同推动一件事。”
Most Republicans appeared content to move beyond the debt ceiling fight, focus on the 2014 campaign and hope for a stronger hand next year to force Mr. Obama back into budget negotiations.
大多数共和党人似乎乐于结束债务上限的斗争，专注于2014年的竞选，希望明年获得更大的影响力，从而迫使奥巴马回归预算谈判。
“Hopefully we can win the Senate, and we can have a completely different conversations,” said Representative James Lankford, an Oklahoma Republican running for the Senate.
俄克拉何马州众议员詹姆斯·兰克福德(James Lankford)正在竞选参议员。他说，“希望我们能赢得参议院，那样我们就能开展完全不同的讨论了。”