America’s top intelligence official expressed deep skepticism on Tuesday about the prospect of persuading North Korea to renounce nuclear weapons, saying it was “probably a lost cause.”
本周二，美国一名顶级情报官员对说服朝鲜放弃核武器的前景深表怀疑，称这一努力“可能注定会遭到失败”。
In a speech at the Council on Foreign Relations covering a range of international crises, the official, James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, also said he was worried about instability in the northern Iraqi city of Mosul once Iraqi forces recapture it from the Islamic State, which he predicted would take “a long time.”
美国国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)在美国外交关系协会(Council on Foreign Relations)上发言时，谈到了一系列国际危机，他预计伊拉克军队从伊斯兰国(IS)手中收复伊拉克北部城市摩苏尔后，该市的不稳定状况将持续“很长时间”，他对此感到担心。
And Mr. Clapper said that if the United States imposed a no-fly zone or safe zone in parts of Syria where Russian and American warplanes are flying, he “wouldn’t put it past” the Russians to shoot down an American aircraft if they felt their forces were threatened.
克拉珀说，如果美国在叙利亚有俄罗斯和美国战机活动的地区设立禁飞区或安全区，一旦俄罗斯觉得自己的部队受到威胁，“不排除”将出现美军飞机被其击落的情况。
Many of Mr. Clapper’s remarks, in a question-and-answer forum with Charlie Rose, were reiterations of what he and his associates have publicly said before. But his assessment of the situation on the Korean Peninsula appeared to diverge from a longstanding American policy: seeking North Korea’s return to the so-called six-party talks, suspended for years, which are aimed at verifiably ridding the country of nuclear weapons.
克拉珀在查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)问答论坛上做出的很多评论，他和同事们以前都曾经公开表达过。但他对朝鲜半岛局势的评估，似乎与美国长期以来的政策背道而驰。美国的政策是寻求朝鲜重返已经停止多年的“六方会谈”，从而实现朝鲜可核查的无核化。
Tensions in the region have been rising. Disregarding international sanctions, North Korea has repeatedly tested nuclear bombs underground, as well as missiles that could theoretically carry warheads to the United States.
该地区的紧张局势已经加剧。朝鲜不顾国际制裁，一再秘密测试核弹以及理论上可以将弹头发射到美国的导弹。
Over China’s objections, the United States intends to install a sophisticated antimissile system in South Korea to deter the perceived North Korean threat.
美国不顾中国的反对，打算在韩国架设一个先进的反导系统，抵御朝鲜的威胁。
“I think the notion of getting the North Koreans to denuclearize is probably a lost cause,” Mr. Clapper said Tuesday in response to a question about whether negotiations with North Korea’s leaders could lead to a suspension of the country’s nuclear and missile activities. “They are not going to do that,” he said. “That is their ticket to survival.”
“我认为，让朝鲜无核化的努力可能注定会遭到失败。”本周二，当被问及与朝鲜领导人的谈判是否会导致该国核武与导弹活动暂停时，克拉珀回答说，“他们不会暂停，”他说。“那是他们生存的保障。”
Asked later about Mr. Clapper’s remarks, the State Department spokesman, John Kirby, said at a regular news briefing in Washington that he had not seen them, but that the United States’ position on North Korea was unchanged.
当被问及克拉珀的言论时，国务院发言人约翰·柯比(John Kirby)在华盛顿的一次例行新闻发布会上说，他还没有看到这些言论，但美国对朝鲜的立场并未改变。
“We want to see a return to the six-party talk process, and that means we need to see the North show a willingness and an ability to return to that process, which they haven’t done yet,” Mr. Kirby said.
“我们希望恢复六方会谈，这意味着我们需要看到朝鲜显示出重返会谈的意愿和能力，他们并没有做到这点，”柯比说。
“We continue — our policy objective is to seek, to obtain a verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula,” he added. “That is the policy.”
“我们将继续下去——我们的政策目标是在朝鲜半岛实现可核查的无核化。”他表示，“这就是我们的政策。”