After a decade of rapid consolidation in the nation’s airline industry, the Justice Department filed a lawsuit on Tuesday to block the proposed merger between American Airlines and US Airways, which would create the world’s largest airline.
在美国航空业经历了10年的快速整合后，美国司法部(Justice Department)于周二提起诉讼，阻止美国航空公司(American Airlines)和全美航空公司(US Airways)提出的合并计划。两家公司如果合并，将成为世界最大的航空公司。
The move, joined by attorneys general from six states and the District of Columbia, surprised industry officials, who had expected little resistance to the deal. But it underscored a newly aggressive approach by the Justice Department’s antitrust division, which has been more closely scrutinizing proposed mergers as the economy recovers. In 2011, for example, it blocked the merger of AT&T and T-Mobile, and this year it forced Anheuser-Busch InBev to significantly alter the terms of its takeover of the brewer of Corona before approving it.
六个州及哥伦比亚特区的首席检察官一同提起了这次诉讼，使得航空业的管理人员深感震惊，因为他们原以为此次交易不会受阻。然而，此事突显了司法部反垄断部门新近采取的一个有力举措，随着经济的复苏，该部门更加密切地审查合并案。 比如，该部门在2011年否决了美国电话电报公司(AT&T)与T-Mobile的合并申请，并在今年迫使安海斯—布希英博集团(Anheuser-Busch InBev)大幅调整收购啤酒酿造公司科罗娜(Corona)的条款。
The airline industry, though, has had a nearly unfettered run of mergers in recent years, and the American-US Airways combination was seen as the capstone. In no small part, this consolidation of the industry into a handful of carriers had the support of regulators. Starting in 2008, the Justice Department approved the mergers of Delta Air Lines and Northwest, United Airlines and Continental, and Southwest and AirTran.
然而，航空业最近几年的合并几乎没有受到限制，美国航空和全美航空的合并更被视作合并的巅峰。航空业合并成几大公司的进程在很大程度上获得了监管机构的支持。从2008年开始，司法部批准了达美航空(Delta Airlines)与西北航空(Northwest)、联合航空(United Airlines)与美国大陆航空(Continental Airlines)、西南航空(Southwest)与穿越航空(AirTran)的合并案。
But antitrust regulators said these past mergers had in effect undermined the case for the American-US Airways combination. While those mergers helped the industry return to profitability and brought more stability, they also led to higher fares, regulators said. A union between American and US Airways would take the consolidation too far, the Justice Department said, hurting consumers and leading to substantially less competition and higher airfares and fees, and to less service to many airports.
但反垄断监管人员表示，之前的合并案实际上已经影响到了美国航空与全美航空的合并。监管人员表示，虽然这些合并案帮助航空业恢复盈利，使其更加稳定，但也导致了票价升高。司法部表示，两大公司的合并将会使整合进程走到过火的地步，对消费者造成损害，大幅度减少竞争，还会导致机票价格和费用上涨，并使很多机场的服务缩水。
“Today’s action proves our determination to fight for the best interests of consumers by ensuring robust competition in the marketplace,” said Eric H. Holder Jr., the United States attorney general.
司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)表示，“今天的举动证明了我们的决心，那就是要通过保证激烈的市场竞争来为消费者争取最大利益。”
The decision to file a civil antitrust lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia brought an unusually strong reaction from the airlines. In a joint statement, American and US Airways said they would mount a “vigorous and strong defense” of their plan.
针对司法部在哥伦比亚特区联邦地方法院(United States District Court for the District of Columbia)提起民事反垄断诉讼的决定，航空业做出了异常强烈的反应。
“We believe that the D.O.J. is wrong in its assessment of our merger,” the airlines said. A combined American and US Airways, they said, would create more options for customers than either airline could offer on their own.
美国航空和全美航空在一份联合声明中表示，它们会为合并计划进行“强有力的抗辩”。
Doug Parker, chief executive of US Airways, who was planned to run the combined airlines, struck a defiant tone in a statement to employees, saying, “We will close the merger before year end.”
两家航空公司表示，“我们认为，司法部对我们的合并案的评估是错误的。”他们表示，两者合并将会为消费者提供更多选择，多于两家公司各自能够提供的选择。
In arguing against the merger, the Justice Department said it would result in four airlines controlling more than 80 percent of the United States market for commercial air travel.
按照先前的计划，全美航空首席执行官道格·帕克(Doug Parker)将会成为合并后航空公司的领导人。在给员工的一份声明中，他以强硬的语调表示，“我们将在年底前完成合并。”
“We looked very carefully for six months at this deal, and we think it’s pretty messed up,” said William J. Baer, the assistant attorney general in charge of the department’s antitrust division. “It looks pretty bad for consumers.”
司法部在陈述反对该合并案理由时表示，该合并案将会导致四家航空公司控制美国商业航空旅行市场超过80%的市场份额的局面。
He told reporters that the merger could cost consumers “hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars.”
“我们对此项交易进行了六个月的仔细审查，并且认为它相当不合时宜，”司法部分管反垄断部门的助理部长威廉·J·贝尔(William J. Baer)说。“看起来，它对消费者十分不利。”
He said regulators reached that conclusion after reviewing internal plans for the merger at US Airways and American and studying how much fares rose after the other giant mergers.
他告诉记者，此项合并案可能致使消费者多花“成百上千万美元”。他还说，监管人员审核了全美航空和美国航空合并的内部计划，并且对其他大型合并导致的费用增加进行了研究，然后才得出了结论。
Mr. Baer said the combined airline’s pricing power would be apparent at Ronald Reagan National Airport near Washington, where it would have a monopoly on 63 percent of the nonstop routes.
贝尔说，合并后的航空公司将在华盛顿附近的罗纳德·里根国家机场(Ronald Reagan National Airport)拥有明显的定价权，因为它将垄断该机场63%的直飞线路。
The decision surprised airline analysts.
这项决定让航空分析人士感到震惊。
“ ‘Bizarre’ is one word,” said Robert Mann, an airline consultant and former executive, who characterized the Justice Department as “late to the game with concerns over airline industry consolidation.”
“这件事可以用‘奇怪’来形容，”航空咨询师、前管理人员罗伯特·曼(Robert Mann)说。他称司法部“对航空业整合进程的担忧来得有点儿迟”。
A report by the Government Accountability Office in June found that the planned merger would reduce competition in a far larger number of airports than earlier airline mergers, including the one that fused United and Continental into the nation’s current leader.
美国政府问责局(Government Accountability Office)6月的报告发现，这项计划中的合并将使大量机场竞争减少，数目远远多于之前的历次合并，包括使得联合航空和大陆航空合并为美国当今行业领头羊的那次合并。