DALLAS — A Dallas nurse who treated the Liberian man before he died of the Ebola virus last week has tested positive for the disease, officials said Sunday.
达拉斯——上周，一名感染埃博拉病毒的利比里亚人在达拉斯去世；周日，这里的官员说，护理他的护士埃博拉病毒检查呈阳性。
Although the nurse was wearing protective gear, the director of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Sunday that the latest report indicated a clear breach of safety protocol at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital. But he also said that questioning the nurse, who was questioned, did not identify a breach, and that it was not known how she became infected.
尽管这名护士穿戴了护具，美国疾病控制与预防中心（Centers for Disease Control and Prevention，简称CDC）的负责人周日称，这个病例的出现，明显表明德克萨斯长老会医院(Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital)出现了安全违规状况。但他同时表示，这名护士正在接受询问，目前还没有发现哪里出现了问题，而且不知道她是怎么感染上病毒的。
Earlier the hospital had not recognized the Liberian man, Thomas Eric Duncan, 42, as a potential Ebola patient when he first sought treatment there. Mr. Duncan, the first person diagnosed with Ebola in the United States, died last Wednesday.
这名利比里亚人是42岁托马斯·埃里克·邓肯(Thomas Eric Duncan)，他首次前往德克萨斯长老会医院求诊时，该医院没有识别出他可能感染了埃博拉病毒。邓肯于上周三病故，他是第一个在美国境内被确诊感染了埃博拉病毒的人。
The second Ebola case, which the C.D.C. confirmed with its own tests of the nurse’s blood, immediately broadened the scope of the response by Dallas officials, renewed fears of the spread of the disease in a city already on edge and raised questions about whether most hospitals in the United States are prepared to deal with the disease.
CDC自己对这名护士的血液进行检测，确认了第二起埃博拉感染病例的出现。这个消息立即导致了达拉斯官员反应范围的扩大，并在这个情绪已经很紧张的城市，引发了人们对该疾病传播的新一轮担忧，此外它还提出了一个问题：美国的大多数医院是否已经做好了应对这种疾病的准备。
The nurse reported a low-grade fever Friday night, went to the hospital at some point after that and was immediately admitted and put in isolation, officials said. She had been in contact with only one person, who was with her when the fever developed and has been placed in isolation at the hospital, they said.
官员说，这名护士称上周五晚间出现低烧症状，之后她去了医院，立即被收治入院，并进行了隔离。此前她只接触了一个人，那个人在她开始发烧的时候和她在一起，此人也已经被该医院隔离。
Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the director of the C.D.C. , said during a news conference on Sunday that his agency was considering the idea that Ebola patients should be transferred to hospitals with special containment units and experience in treating the disease, an idea that was endorsed by Stephen S. Morse, a professor of epidemiology at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University.
CDC主任托马斯·R·弗里登博士(Thomas R. Frieden)在周日的新闻发布会上说，他们正在考虑一个方案：把感染埃博拉病毒的患者转移到有特殊的封闭性病房，以及这种疾病治疗经验的医院。哥伦比亚大学梅尔曼公共卫生学院(Columbia University's Mailman School of Public Health)的流行病学教授史蒂芬·S·莫尔斯(Stephen S. Morse)对这种做法表示赞同。
“I don’t think every hospital has the facilities or the wherewithal, or for that matter the desire to care for Ebola patients,” Dr. Morse said. Still, he added, “You obviously have to have a safe way of transporting them to a center.”
“我认为，不是每家医院都有设施或必要的资源，而且也未必都愿意照顾埃博拉患者，”莫尔斯博士说。不过，他说，“你显然必须有一个安全的方式，来把他们转移到一个治疗中心。”
But Dr. Frieden also emphasized that all hospitals should be able to recognize potential Ebola cases, and diagnose and isolate patients, because travelers with possible exposures could turn up almost anywhere.
但弗里登博士还强调，所有医院应该有能力识别出潜在的埃博拉病毒病例，并诊断和隔离患者，因为可能会感染上该病毒的旅行者，几乎会出现在任何地方。
The nurse in Dallas had extensive contact with Mr. Duncan on multiple occasions after his second visit and admission to the hospital on Sept. 28, he said. Mr. Duncan, who left Liberia on Sept. 19, first went to the emergency room on Sept. 25. He was released but returned days later after his condition worsened.
9月28日，邓肯第二次前往求诊，并被收治入院，在这个过程中，达拉斯的这名护士曾在多个场合与他广泛接触，他说。邓肯于9月19日离开利比里亚，第一次前往急诊室是9月25日。当时医生没有让他住院，但回家几天后，他的病情恶化了。
Dr. Daniel Varga, chief clinical officer of Texas Health Resources, which oversees Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital, said the nurse was wearing protective gear when she came into contact with Mr. Duncan, although Dr. Varga did not detail the type of contact.
德克萨斯长老会医院由德克萨斯州卫生资源机构(Texas Health Resources)负责监督，该机构的首席临床医疗官丹尼尔·瓦尔加(Daniel Varga)博士说，在与邓肯接触时，这名护士穿戴着护具，但瓦尔加博士没有详细说明接触的类型。
“This individual was following full C.D.C. precautions,” Dr. Varga said, adding, “Gown, glove, mask and shield.” Asked how concerned he was that even after those precautions, the nurse tested positive, he replied, “We’re very concerned.”
“这位员工完全遵循了CDC的预防要求，”瓦尔加博士说，“长褂、手套、口罩和防护罩。”记者问他，即使采取了这些预防措施，该护士的血检仍然呈阳性，对此他有多担心，他回答说：“我们非常担心。”
Dr. Frieden, stating that a breach had occurred, said, “Unfortunately it is possible in the coming days that we will see additional cases of Ebola.”
弗里登博士称有违规现象，他说，“糟糕的是，可能不久之后，我们将看到其他埃博拉病例出现。”
Everyone who treated Mr. Duncan was now considered to be potentially exposed, he said.
所有和邓肯接触过的医护人员，现在都被视为有可能感染了埃博拉病毒，他说。
Health officials said the nurse was not one of the 48 individuals initially monitored for possible direct or indirect contact with Mr. Duncan before he was admitted to the hospital, including health care workers and Mr. Duncan’s relatives. None of those 48 individuals, health officials said, had shown any signs of the virus. The nurse had been “self-monitoring” to check for symptoms of Ebola.
卫生官员们说，最初他们监测了48个人，这些人在邓肯被该医院收治入院之前，可能与他有过直接或间接接触，其中包括医护人员和邓肯的亲属，该护士不属于这48人。卫生官员说，这48个人都没有出现感染该病毒的迹象。这名护士之前一直在“自我监测”埃博拉病毒的症状。
Proper handling of the equipment is crucial, Dr. Frieden said, because if the gear is contaminated, workers can infect themselves by touching it with bare hands.
正确处理相关设备极为重要，弗里登博士说，因为如果设备被污染了，医护人员就可能在赤手接触它的时候被感染。
Two other areas being examined, he said, were kidney dialysis and respiratory intubation of Ebola patients. Both procedures are considered high risk and may spread contaminated material.
正在检查的其他两个地方，他说，是对埃博拉患者进行的肾透析和呼吸道插管治疗。这两种治疗过程被认为存在高风险，可能导致污染物质的扩散。
President Obama on Sunday directed the C.D.C. to expedite its investigation into how the health care worker contracted the deadly virus, according to a White House statement. Mr. Obama also directed federal officials to make sure that hospitals and health workers across the nation “are prepared to follow protocols should they encounter an Ebola patient,” the statement said.
周日，奥巴马总统指示CDC加快对医护人员感染这种致命病毒情况的调查，白宫的一份声明说。奥巴马还指示联邦官员，确保全国范围内的医院和卫生工作者“在遇到埃博拉患者的时候，做好遵循相应规范的准备，”该声明说。