In a pair of major victories for the gay rights movement, the Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that married same-sex couples were entitled to federal benefits and, by declining to decide a case from California, effectively allowed same-sex marriages there.
同性恋权利运动取得了两项重大胜利。周三，美国最高法院(Supreme Court)判决，同性婚姻伴侣有权享受联邦给予异性婚姻伴侣的福利。而且，最高法院拒绝审理一项来自加利福尼亚州的案件，从而实际上许可了当地的同性婚姻。
The rulings leave in place laws banning same-sex marriage around the nation, and the court declined to say whether there was a constitutional right to such unions. But in clearing the way for same-sex marriage in California, the nation’s most populous state, the court effectively increased to 13 the number of states that allow it.
该判决并未影响美国各州那些禁止同性恋结婚的法律，而且最高法院拒绝就同性婚姻是否属于宪法权利进行表态。但是，加州是美国人口最多的州，为加州同性婚姻扫清障碍，最高法院其实就把允许同性恋结婚的州增加到了13个。
The decisions will only intensify the fast-moving debate over same-sex marriage, and the clash in the Supreme Court reflected the one around the nation. In the hushed courtroom Wednesday morning, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy announced the majority opinion striking down the federal law in a stately tone that indicated he was delivering a civil rights landmark. After he finished, he sat stonily, looking straight ahead, while Justice Antonin Scalia unleashed a cutting dissent.
这一裁决只会加强围绕同性婚姻的迅速发展的辩论。最高法院的冲突也反映了全国的矛盾。周三上午，法庭全场肃静，大法官安东尼·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)宣读了多数派意见，该意见推翻了一项联邦法律。他以庄重的语气显示出，他正宣读的是民权运动史上的一个里程碑。他宣读完毕之后，端坐椅上，目视前方。而大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)开始发表激烈的反对意见。
The vote in the case striking down the federal Defense of Marriage Act was 5 to 4, and Justice Kennedy was joined by the four members of the court’s liberal wing. The ruling will immediately extend many benefits to couples married in the states that allow such unions, and it will allow the Obama administration to broaden other benefits through executive actions.
在推翻《婚姻保护法案》(Defense of Marriage Act)的案件中，判决是以5:4的投票结果通过的。最高法院的四名自由派大法官与肯尼迪大法官立场一致。判决下达后，在同性婚姻合法州结婚的同性恋者可以立即享受许多福利。该判决也允许奥巴马政府通过行政行动扩大其他的福利。
The case concerning California’s ban on same-sex marriage, enacted in a ballot initiative known as Proposition 8, was decided on technical grounds, with the majority saying that it was not properly before the court. That left in place a trial court victory for two same-sex couples who had sought to marry.
加州禁止同性婚姻的禁令是在一项称为“8号提案”(Proposition 8)的选票提案(ballot initiative)中确立的。涉及加州禁止同性婚姻的案件，是以技术原因做出裁决的，多数派意见认为该案不宜由最高法院讨论。这使两对寻求结婚的同性恋伴侣在初审法院所拿到的胜诉裁决得以维持。
The vote in the California case was also 5 to 4, but with a different and very unusual alignment of justices. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote the majority opinion, and he was joined by Justice Scalia and Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen G. Breyer and Elena Kagan. The four dissenters — Justice Kennedy and Justices Clarence Thomas, Samuel A. Alito Jr. and Sonia Sotomayor — said they would have decided whether Proposition 8 was constitutional. But they did not say how they would have voted.
加州案件的投票结果也是5:4，但是法官的组合情况却不同，而且极不寻常。首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)撰写了多数派意见。大法官斯卡利亚、鲁思·巴德·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)、史蒂芬·G·布雷耶(Stephen G. Breyer)、埃琳娜·卡根(Elena Kagan)与他站在一边。四名持反对意见者是大法官肯尼迪、克拉伦斯·托马斯(Clarence Thomas)、小塞缪尔·A·阿利托(Samuel A. Alito Jr.)和索尼娅·索托马约(Sonia Sotomayor)。他们说，应该对8号提案是否符合宪法做出裁定。但是他们没有说会怎样投票。
The case on the federal law was the more important one from a legal perspective, setting the terms for challenges to state bans on same-sex marriage. Justice Kennedy’s reasoning, as Justice Scalia noted at length in dissent, could just as easily have applied to state laws as to the federal one.
从法律角度看，涉及联邦法律的案件更加重要，为挑战那些禁止同性恋结婚的州法案提供了依据。正如斯卡利亚在反对意见中长篇论述的，肯尼迪大法官针对联邦法案的逻辑很容易就能适用于州级法律。
“The federal statute is invalid, for no legitimate purpose overcomes the purpose and effect to disparage and injure those whom the state, by its marriage laws, sought to protect in personhood and dignity,” Justice Kennedy wrote. “By seeking to displace this protection and treating those persons as living in marriages less respected than others, the federal statute is in violation of the Fifth Amendment.”
肯尼迪法官写道，“该联邦法案是无效的，因为各州旨在通过婚姻法保护公民的人格及尊严，但是该法案却歧视并伤害某些公民，这是不正当的。该法案试图消除这种法律的保护，并认为这些公民的婚姻与其他公民的婚姻相比，较不值得尊重，因而这一联邦法律违反了宪法第五修正案。”
He said the law was motivated by a desire to harm gay and lesbian couples and their families, demeaning the “moral and sexual choices” of such couples and humiliating “tens of thousands of children now being raised by same-sex couples.”
他说这项法律的动机是源自一种侵害同性恋伴侣及其家人的欲望，贬低这种伴侣的“道德和性选择”，羞辱“成千上万由同性伴侣抚养的儿童”。
The constitutional basis for striking down the law was not entirely clear, as it had elements of federalism, equal protection and due process. Justice Kennedy said the law’s basic flaw was in its “deprivation of the  liberty of the person protected by the Fifth Amendment.”
由于这项法律中涉及联邦架构、平等权利和正当程序等因素，所以推翻这项法律的宪法依据并不完全清晰。肯尼迪大法官说，这项法律的根本问题在于，“剥夺了受第五修正案保护的个人的自由”。
He added that the ruling applied only to marriages from states that allowed gay and lesbian couples to wed.
他补充说，裁决只适用于在认定同性婚姻合法的州缔结的婚姻。
The court’s four more conservative justices — Chief Justice Roberts and Justices Scalia, Thomas and Alito — issued three dissents between them in the case on the federal law. They differed in some of their rationales and predictions, but all agreed that the law, which passed with bipartisan support and which President Bill Clinton signed, was constitutional.
最高法院四位较为保守的大法官，首席大法官罗伯茨、大法官斯卡利亚、托马斯和阿利托，在针对联邦法律的案件中发布了三则反对意见。他们的某些依据和预测存在差异，但都认为该项法律符合宪法。这项法律通过时得到了两党支持，并由比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统签署生效。
Chief Justice Roberts said that he “would not tar the political branches with the brush of bigotry,” and that “interests in uniformity and stability amply justified Congress’s decision” in 1996, which, “at that point, had been adopted by every state in our nation, and every nation in the world.”
首席大法官罗伯茨说，他“不愿用偏见抹黑政府”，而且在1996年，“鉴于统一与稳定的需要，国会当时的决定有充分的合理性。当时，我国每个州都采纳了国会的决定，世界上的每个国家也都赞同这个决定”。
Justice Scalia wrote that the majority had simplified a complex question that should be decided democratically and not by judges.
斯卡利亚大法官写道，多数派意见简单化了一个复杂的问题，而这个复杂的问题应当民主决定，而不是由法官决定。
“In the majority’s telling, this story is black-and-white: Hate your neighbor or come along with us,” he wrote. “The truth is more complicated.”
“多数派意见讲述道，事情非黑即白：要么恨你的邻居，要么跟我们走，”他写道。“真相比这更复杂。”
The case before the justices concerned two New York City women, Edith Windsor and Thea Clara Spyer, who married in 2007 in Canada. Ms. Spyer died in 2009, and Ms. Windsor inherited her property. The federal law did not allow the Internal Revenue Service to treat Ms. Windsor as a surviving spouse, and she faced a tax bill of about $360,000, which a spouse in an opposite-sex marriage would not have had to pay. Ms. Windsor sued, and last year the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, struck down the federal law.
提交最高法院的案件涉及纽约市的两名女性，爱迪斯·温莎(Edith Windsor)和西娅·克拉拉·斯派尔(Thea Clara Spyer)。她们于2007年在加拿大结婚。斯派尔在2009年去世，温莎继承了她的财产。这项联邦法律不允许美国国家税务局(Internal Revenue Service)将温莎视为在世配偶，因而后者必须缴纳36万美元（约合220元人民币）的税款，而异性婚姻中的配偶就不需要缴纳这笔税款。温莎提起了诉讼，去年，位于纽约的美国联邦第二巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit)推翻了该项联邦法律。
In the California case, Chief Justice Roberts said that the failure of state officials to appeal the trial court decision against them was the end of the matter. Proponents of Proposition 8 had suffered only a “generalized grievance” when the ballot initiative they had sponsored was struck down, the chief justice wrote, and they were not entitled to represent the state’s interests on appeal. The ruling in the case, Hollingsworth v. Perry, No. 12-144, effectively affirmed a lower court’s decision striking down Proposition 8.
在加州的案件中，首席大法官罗伯茨指出，州政府官员在初审法院作出不利于他们的判决后，并未提出上诉，事情到此即可了结。“8号提案”的支持者在这项选票提案被推翻后，只是经受了“普遍性不满”，因而他们无权代表州的利益提起上诉。对这起案件（“霍林斯沃思诉佩里案”，编号：12–144 [Hollingsworth v. Perry, No. 12–144]）的判决，基本上核准了下级法院废止“8号提案”的裁决，。
As a practical matter, Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, instructed officials to start issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples as soon as the Ninth Circuit acts.
在操作层面上，加州州长、民主党人杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)已指示官员，只要第九巡回上诉法院(Ninth Circuit)采取行动，就立即开始为同性伴侣发放结婚证书。
If California becomes the 13th state to allow same-sex marriage, about 30 percent of Americans will live in jurisdictions where it is legal. Until last year, when four states voted in favor of same-sex marriage at the ballot box, it had failed — or bans on it had succeeded — every time it had appeared on a statewide initiative.
如果加州成为第13个允许同性婚姻的州，就会有30%的美国人居住在同性婚姻合法的州。去年有四个州在大选时加列提案并获得通过，进而批准了同性婚姻。在此之前，每一次同性婚姻的提案在全州范围内提出时，都遭遇了失败（或是禁止同性婚姻的提议取得了成功）。