Even before the federal government shutdown and debt ceiling crisis this month, the nation’s economy was lagging and job growth was sluggish. And the recent dysfunction in Congress seems likely to make the situation worse.
甚至在本月的政府停摆和债务上限危机之前，美国的经济发展已经滞后，就业也增长缓慢。看起来，国会(Congress)最近的运转不良可能会使情况变得更糟。
The economy added just 148,000 jobs in September, the Labor Department reported on Tuesday in a discouraging economic snapshot taken just before a federal shutdown that resulted in hundreds of thousands of furloughs. That shutdown, which delayed the release of the September employment report by more than two weeks, is expected to weigh on growth when the next monthly job market data is released on Nov. 8, a week behind schedule.
周二，美国劳工部(Labor Department)发布报告称，今年9月，经济发展仅带来14.8万个就业岗位。这个在联邦政府即将停摆之时统计的经济报告令人沮丧，而政府停摆致使数十万人被迫休假，九月份就业报告的发布时间也因此推迟了超过两周。下一个月度就业市场数据报告将在原定计划一周之后的11月8日发布，预计也将反映政府停摆给就业增长带来的不利影响。
“The labor market lost, rather than gained, momentum over the summer, leaving us with less than a desirable cushion just as the government was shuttered in response to political shenanigans,” said Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial.
梅斯洛金融公司(Mesirow Financial)的首席经济学家黛安娜·斯万克(Diane Swonk)表示， “今年夏天，劳工市场发展不但没有加快，反而有所放缓，致使我们没能在政治闹剧导致政府停摆时获得理想的缓冲。”
This year, in a pattern that has been followed for several years now, economists have been counting on job growth to pick up speed. That could finally start putting a more substantial share of the 11.3 million idle Americans back to work and make a greater dent in the unemployment rate, which ticked down to 7.2 percent last month.
像前面几年一样，经济学家们今年也期待就业加速增长。这最终可能会让美国1130万无业人员当中更大的一个部分重获工作，大幅降低失业率。上个月，失业率降至7.2%。
But yet again, those expectations are being dashed. Both experts at the Federal Reserve and private forecasters have scaled back their expectations for output growth in recent months, with many economists blaming tighter fiscal policy in large part for the more modest projections.
然而，这些期望再度落空。美联储(Federal Reserve)和私营预测机构的专家都降低了对最近几个月产出增长的预估，很多经济学家都认为，趋紧的财政政策是导致预测数字较低的主要原因。
The relatively weak September numbers, the subsequent fiscal showdown, the lack of available data and the economic distortions created by temporarily closing government offices are all expected to further delay the Fed’s decision to begin scaling back on some of its efforts to stimulate the economy.
9月份相对比较疲软的数据、随后的财政摊牌、有效数据的缺乏，以及政府办公室暂时关闭造成的经济扭曲，预计都将进一步推迟美联储逐步削减部分刺激举措的决定。
While the Federal Reserve has been trying to promote growth, the rest of Washington has largely been working in the opposite direction, analysts said, with Congress creating drags on the economy through resumption of a payroll tax that began in January, the across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration that began in March, and then the partial government shutdown and debt ceiling crisis in October. The result has been to accelerate a longer-running trend of a shrinking federal work force; in September, the federal government had the lowest number of civilian employees on its payrolls since 1966.
分析人士表示，虽然美联储一直在努力推动经济增长，华盛顿的其他机构却在很大程度上与之背道而驰，国会拖累了经济的发展，因为国会从1月开始恢复征收工资税，并从3月开始进行名为自动减赤(sequestration)的全面预算削减，又在10月份导致了部分政府部门关门的局面和债务上限危机的出现。最终的结果是加速了一种长期存在的趋势，即联邦工作人员数目减少。今年9月，联邦政府工资单上文职雇员的数目降至1966年以来的最低水平。
A recent report from Macroeconomic Advisers, a forecasting firm, estimated that government reductions in discretionary spending as a share of the economy since 2010 had pushed the national unemployment rate higher by 0.8 percentage point than it otherwise would have been, the equivalent of 1.2 million absent jobs. Those same spending cuts have also shaved an estimated 0.7 percentage point off output growth each year. Those drags are separate from the costs of the shutdown, which are expected to reduce the annualized growth rate of gross domestic product in the fourth quarter by 0.2 to 0.6 percentage point, depending on which estimate is used.
预测公司宏观经济咨询公司(Macroeconomic Advisers)在最近发布的报告当中估计，自2010年以来，政府缩减自由支配项目开支在经济中所占比重的举措将美国的失业率推高了0.8个百分点，相当于减少了120万个就业岗位。削减开支的举措还导致每年的产出增长率减少0.7个百分点。这些不利影响还不包括政府停摆带来的损失，政府停摆预计会使第四季度的国内生产总值年化增长率下降0.2至0.6个百分点，数值大小取决于不同的估算。
As a result, analysts predicted, the economy is expected to advance at roughly a 2 percent pace for the fourth quarter and the full year instead of the 3 percent or so that it might have achieved without those fiscal hurdles to overcome.
有鉴于此，分析人士预测，第四季度和全年的经济增长率大概会在2%左右，如果没有前述的财政障碍，本来有可能达到3%左右。
The pace of employment growth in September was slower than the average rate over the previous year, which was 185,000 jobs a month. The unemployment rate fell to 7.2, from 7.3 percent the previous month, a change that was not statistically significant. The unemployment rate has fallen by 0.4 percentage point since June, though much of the improvement was because many people have dropped out of the labor force and are no longer counted.
9月的就业增长速度低于去年的月平均水平，即增加18.5万个工作岗位。失业率从上个月的7.3%降到了7.2%，这个变化从统计的角度来看并不明显。从6月开始，失业率累计下降了0.4个百分点，但这种改善很大程度上是因为很多人脱离了劳动大军，不再被计算在内了。
Other details of the report were lackluster. The length of the average workweek and the share of Americans actively engaged in the labor force both remained flat. Before August, the share of Americans in the labor force had not been this low since 1978, when women were less likely to be working. Economists have been expecting that this so-called labor force participation rate would pick up as workers waiting on the sidelines saw improvements in the job market and started applying for work again, but that has not yet happened.
该报告的其他细节也没有什么亮点。每周的平均工作时间和活跃劳动参与者在美国人当中所占比例都没有太大变化。8月份，劳动参与者的比例达到了1978年以来的最低点，而在1978年，女性参加工作的几率并不像现在这么高。经济学家一直认为，随着待业人员看到就业市场出现起色并重新开始求职，这种所谓的劳动参与率也将提高，但这种情况尚未发生。
The biggest net hiring gains in September were in construction, wholesale trade, and transportation and warehousing.
9月最大的就业净增长出现在建筑、批发贸易、运输和仓储领域。
Many economists said they expected the Fed to postpone into next year any move to scale back its major asset purchases, known as quantitative easing, because that action has been predicated on a steadily improving economy. “In light of the moderate tone of the September employment report, we have pushed out our expectation for the first Fed tapering in the pace of asset purchases to March 2014 from December 2013,” economists at Barclays wrote in a note to clients.
许多经济学家都说，他们认为美联储将会维持现行的大规模资产购买，即所谓的量化宽松政策，将任何逐步缩减的举措推迟到明年，因为美联储只有在经济稳步增长的情况下才会采取这种举措。巴克莱银行(Barclays)的经济学家在给客户的报告中写道，“鉴于9月的就业报告调子不高，我们认为，美联储首次缩小资产购买规模的时间将从之前预计的2013年12月推迟到2014年3月。”
It will be months before economists get a report of the jobs market that is untainted by the recent fiscal crisis. If the weak September job growth and October furloughs do not persuade Fed policy makers to delay tapering, complications with incoming economic data caused by the shutdown are expected to.
再过几个月，经济学家才能得到一份不受近期财政危机影响的就业报告。如果9月的缓慢就业增长和10月的强制休假都还不能说服美联储的政策制定者延缓缩减举措，那么，政府关门对即将出炉的经济数据所造成的影响预计将收到这种成效。
“The Fed’s core criteria to change policy is clear evidence of a sustained improvement in the labor market outlook,” Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a note to clients. “Such evidence will not be available this year” because the shutdown depressed employment in October and then probably will cause a corresponding bounce back in November.
“美联储改变政策，核心标准是有清晰证据表明劳动力市场的前景出现了持续改善，”潘西恩宏观经济咨询公司(Pantheon Macroeconomics)的首席经济学家伊恩·谢泼德森(Ian Shepherdson)在写给客户的报告中说。“今年应该拿不到这种证据”，因为政府关门对10月的就业状况产生了影响，很可能还会在11月引起相应的反弹。
(Furloughed workers who receive back pay, as Congress promised all federal government employees, will be counted as employed in the official payroll jobs report, but contract workers or other affected private sector employees who were laid off without pay will not.)
（国会承诺，所有联邦政府工作人员都将得到欠付工资。官方的带薪工作报告将把那些得到欠付工资的暂时休假人员计算在内，但不会包括无薪离岗的承包商雇员或其他受影响的私营部门员工。）