SAN FRANCISCO — The recent revelation that the National Security Agency was able to eavesdrop on the communications of Google and Yahoo users without breaking into either companies’ data centers sounded like something pulled from a Robert Ludlum spy thriller.
旧金山——近日的报道揭露，美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）在监听谷歌(Google)和雅虎(Yahoo)用户的通信时不需要侵入两家公司的数据中心，这听起来彷如罗伯特·陆德伦(Robert Ludlum)的间谍惊悚片里的桥段。
How on earth, the companies asked, did the N.S.A. get their data without them knowing about it?
这些公司在问，怎么会毫无知觉地被NSA拿走了数据，这怎么可能？
The most likely answer is a modern spin on a century-old eavesdropping tradition.
最有可能的答案，是对一个有百年历史的监听传统进行了现代诠释。
People knowledgeable about Google and Yahoo’s infrastructure say they believe that government spies bypassed the big Internet companies and hit them at a weak spot — the fiber-optic cables that connect data centers around the world that are owned by companies like Verizon Communications, the BT Group, the Vodafone Group and Level 3 Communications. In particular, fingers have been pointed at Level 3, the world’s largest so-called Internet backbone provider, whose cables are used by Google and Yahoo.
熟悉谷歌和雅虎基础设施的人说，他们相信是政府的间谍绕过了大公司，攻击了它们的一个弱点——将分布在世界各地的数据中心连接起来的光纤线缆。这些线缆属于威瑞森(Verizon Communications)、英国电信集团(BT Group)、沃达丰集团(Vodafone Group)和Level 3通讯(Level 3 Communications)等公司。本事件中被特别提到的是Level 3，全球最大的所谓互联网主干提供商，谷歌和雅虎使用的是它的光纤线缆。
The Internet companies’ data centers are locked down with full-time security and state-of-the-art surveillance, including heat sensors and iris scanners. But between the data centers — on Level 3’s fiber-optic cables that connected those massive computer farms — information was unencrypted and an easier target for government intercept efforts, according to three people with knowledge of Google’s and Yahoo’s systems who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
互联网公司的数据中心是每时每刻都处在警戒状态的，拥有最先进的监控设备，包括热传感器和虹膜扫描仪。但是据三位熟悉谷歌和雅虎系统的人说，在数据中心之间——也就是Level 3的那些连接大型计算机集群的光纤上——信息是未加密的，因此就比较容易成为政府拦截活动的目标。三人要求在本文中匿名。
It is impossible to say for certain how the N.S.A. managed to get Google and Yahoo’s data without the companies’ knowledge. But both companies, in response to concerns over those vulnerabilities, recently said they were now encrypting data that runs on the cables between their data centers. Microsoft is considering a similar move.
NSA在获取谷歌和雅虎的数据时没有引起公司的注意，究竟是如何做到的，外界不可能知道。但两家公司近日在就这种防御弱点做出回应时说，他们现在已经开始对数据中心之间的数据传输进行加密。微软(Microsoft)也在考虑类似的举措。
“Everyone was so focused on the N.S.A. secretly getting access to the front door that there was an assumption they weren’t going behind the companies’ backs and tapping data through the back door, too,” said Kevin Werbach, an associate professor at the Wharton School.
沃顿商学院(Wharton School)副教授凯文·沃尔巴赫(Kevin Werbach)说，“所有人都盯着NSA秘密获取正门通行证的事，有种假设就是，他们不会瞒着公司，从后门窃取数据。”
Data transmission lines have a long history of being tapped.
窃听数据传输线路的做法由来已久。
As far back as the days of the telegraph, spy agencies have located their operations in proximity to communications companies. Indeed, before the advent of the Internet, the N.S.A. and its predecessors for decades operated listening posts next to the long-distance lines of phone companies to monitor all international voice traffic.
早在电报的年代，间谍机构就会在通信公司附近展开活动。事实上，在互联网诞生之前的几十年里，NSA及其前身一直会在电话公司长途线路附近设置监听点，窃听所有的国际语音通讯往来。
Beginning in the 1960s, a spy operation code-named Echelon targeted the Soviet Union and its allies’ voice, fax and data traffic via satellite, microwave and fiber-optic cables.
从上世纪60年代初开始，针对苏联及其盟国通过卫星、微波和光纤线缆进行的语音、传真和数据通信展开了一个代号为“梯队”(Echelon)的间谍行动。
In the 1990s, the emergence of the Internet both complicated the task of the intelligence agencies and presented powerful new spying opportunities based on the ability to process vast amounts of computer data.
到了90年代，互联网的出现令情报机构的工作变得复杂起来，但在具备了处理海量电脑数据的能力后，互联网同时也为间谍工作提供了强大的新手段。
In 2002, John M. Poindexter, former national security adviser under President Ronald Reagan, proposed the Total Information Awareness plan, an effort to scan the world’s electronic information — including phone calls, emails and financial and travel records. That effort was scrapped in 2003 after a public outcry over potential privacy violations.
2002年，曾在罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)总统幕下任国家安全顾问的约翰·M·珀因德克斯特(John M. Poindexter)提出了“全面信息知悉”计划(Total Information Awareness)，意在扫描全球的电子信息——包括电话通讯、电子邮件和金融、旅行记录。由于存在隐私侵犯的可能，这项计划遭到公众强烈反对，于2003年被废止。
The technologies Mr. Poindexter proposed are similar to what became reality years later in N.S.A. surveillance programs like Prism and Bullrun.
珀因德克斯特提出的技术，和后来NSA的棱镜(Prism)和布尔河(Bullrun)等数年后真正得到实现的监听项目是有相似之处的。
The Internet effectively mingled domestic and international communications, erasing the bright line that had been erected to protect against domestic surveillance. Although the Internet is designed to be a highly decentralized system, in practice a small group of backbone providers carry almost all of the network’s data.
在互联网中，国内和国际通讯其实是混在一起的，这样一来，为防止进行国内监听而划定的明确界限就被抹掉了。互联网的设计初衷是一个高度去中心化的系统，但实际上几个主干提供商承载着几乎所有网络数据。
The consequences of the centralization and its value for surveillance was revealed in 2006 by Mark Klein, an AT&T technician who described an N.S.A. listening post inside a room at an AT&T switching facility.
这种中心化的后果及其对监控的价值，在2006年被AT&T的技术员马克·克莱因(Mark Klein)揭露了出来，他描述了在某AT&T数据交换中心内的一个房间里设置的NSA监听点。
The agency was capturing a copy of all the data passing over the telecommunications links and then filtering it in AT&T facilities that housed systems that were able to filter data packets at high speed.
NSA把经过通讯链路的所有数据都拷贝了下来，然后在AT&T的设施内进行过滤，该设施内装备了可以对数据包进行高速过滤的系统。
Documents taken by Edward J. Snowden and reported by The Washington Post indicate that, seven years after Mr. Klein first described the N.S.A.’s surveillance technologies, they have been refined and modernized.
由爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)取得、《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)报道的文件显示，在克莱因描述NSA监听技术七年后，这些技术已经得到了改进和更新。
“From Echelon to Total Information Awareness to Prism, all these programs have gone under different names, but in essence do the same thing,” said Chip Pitts, a law lecturer at Stanford University School of Law.
“从‘梯队’到‘全面信息知悉’到‘棱镜’，所有这些项目的名字都不一样，但本质上做的是同一件事情，”斯坦福大学法学院(Stanford University School of Law)法学讲师切珀·皮兹(Chip Pitts)说。
Based in the Denver suburbs, Level 3 is not a household name like Verizon or AT&T, but in terms of its ability to carry traffic, it is bigger than the other two carriers combined. Its networking equipment is found in 200 data centers in the United States, more than 100 centers in Europe and 14 in Latin America.
总部位于丹佛市郊区的Level 3不像威瑞森或AT&T那么有名气，但在通讯传输的能力上，它比这两家公司加起来还强。它的网络设备分布在全美200座数据中心里，在欧洲有100多座，在拉美有14座。
Level 3 did not directly respond to an inquiry about whether it had given the N.S.A., or the agency’s foreign intelligence partners, access to Google and Yahoo’s data. In a statement, Level 3 said: “It is our policy and our practice to comply with laws in every country where we operate, and to provide government agencies access to customer data only when we are compelled to do so by the laws in the country where the data is located.”
Level3没有直接回答其是否为NSA及其外国情报伙伴提供获得谷歌和雅虎数据的途径的问题。Level3在一份声明中说：“我们的政策和一贯做法是，遵守我们运营所在国的法律，只有当数据所在国的法律要求我们向政府机构提供客户数据时，我们才会这么做。”
Also, in a financial filing, Level 3 noted that, “We are party to an agreement with the U.S. Departments of Homeland Security, Justice and Defense addressing the U.S. government’s national security and law enforcement concerns. This agreement imposes significant requirements on us related to information storage and management; traffic management; physical, logical and network security arrangements; personnel screening and training; and other matters.”
此外，在一份提交给金融监管机构的文件中，Level3指出，“我们和美国的国土安全部、司法部，以及国防部签署了一个协议，以应对美国政府在国家安全和执法方面的种种担忧。这一协议对我们提出了一系列重要的要求，涉及信息的储存与管理；流量管理；物流、网络，及现实中的安全安排；人员的筛查和培训；以及一些其他问题。”
Security experts say that regardless of whether Level 3’s participation is voluntary or not, recent N.S.A. disclosures make clear that even when Internet giants like Google and Yahoo do not hand over data, the N.S.A. and its intelligence partners can simply gather their data downstream.
安全专家说，无论Level3是否是主动参与，最近披露的关于NSA的情况都表明，即使谷歌和雅虎这样的互联网巨头不主动提供数据，NSA及其情报合作伙伴也能在下游获得他们的数据。
That much was true last summer when United States authorities first began tracking Mr. Snowden’s movements after he left Hawaii for Hong Kong with thousands of classified documents. In May, authorities contacted Ladar Levison, who ran Lavabit, Mr. Snowden’s email provider, to install a tap on Mr. Snowden’s email account. When Mr. Levison did not move quickly enough to facilitate the tap on Lavabit’s network, the Federal Bureau of Investigation did so without him.
去年夏天，在斯诺登带着数千份保密文件离开夏威夷前往香港之后，美国政府首次开始追踪斯诺登的行踪时，就证明了上述结论的真实性。今年5月，有关部门联系了斯诺登的邮箱提供商拉维毕特(Lavabit)的所有者拉达尔·莱韦森(Ladar Levison)，想要对斯诺登的邮箱账户设置监控程序。由于莱韦森动作太慢，FBI自己动手安装了监控程序。
Mr. Levison said it was unclear how that tap was installed, whether through Level 3, which sold bandwidth to Lavabit, or at the Dallas facility where his servers and networking equipment are stored. When Mr. Levison asked the facility’s manager about the tap, he was told the manager could not speak with him. A spokesman for TierPoint, which owns the Dallas facility, did not return a call seeking a comment.
莱韦森说，不清楚监控程序是怎么安装的，是通过Level3，还是被安在了达拉斯的设备上。Level3向拉维毕特销售带宽。而他的服务器和网络设备储存在达拉斯。当莱韦森向设备的管理者询问监控事宜时，他被告知这名管理者不能和他讲话。达拉斯设施的所有者TierPoint的发言人没有回复置评请求。