WASHINGTON — A federal appeals court in New York on Thursday ruled that the once-secret National Security Agency program that is systematically collecting Americans' phone records in bulk is illegal. The decision comes as a fight in Congress is intensifying over whether to end and replace the program or to extend it without changes.
华盛顿——纽约的一家联邦上诉法院于本周四将美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)有组织且大规模地搜集民众通话记录的项目裁定为违法。该项目在曝光前原属机密。这一裁决下达的时机，正值美国国会在益发热烈地争论，是否该以替代方案正式终结该项目，或是原封不动地延长其运行时间。
In a 97-page ruling, a three-judge panel for the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals held that a provision of the USA Patriot Act, known as Section 215, cannot be legitimately interpreted to allow the bulk collection of domestic calling records. The ruling was certain to increase the tension that has been building in Congress as the provision of the act that has been cited to justify the bulk data collection program nears a June 1 expiration.
美国联邦第二巡回上诉法院(2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals)合议庭的三位法官，在长达97页的判决书中认为，《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)其中的一项条款，也就是第215条，不能合法解读为允许大规模搜集国内通联纪录。这一条款即将于今年6月1日有效期满，而上述裁决势必让国会业已不断加剧的冲突更为恶化。
The ruling puts new pressure on Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the majority leader, to make serious changes to the Patriot Act that he has so far defended against any alteration, even as recently as Thursday on the Senate floor. McConnell has pressed to maintain the NSA's existing program against bipartisan efforts to scale it back, and has proposed simply extending the statute.
参议院多数党领袖、来自肯塔基州的共和党人米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)也将因为此项裁决而承受对《爱国者法案》做出大幅度修正的新压力。麦康奈尔始终力挺该法案，排斥修订，哪怕是本周四现身参议院会场时依旧坚守这一立场。即便有国会两党成员一致要求削减国安局通联项目的权限，麦康纳仍然力促予以保全，并已提议直接延长法令的有效期限。
But the court's ruling calls into question whether that statute can still be used to issue new orders to phone companies requiring them to turn over their customers' records.
然而，关于这一法令究竟能否继续被国安局用来签发要求电信公司提交客户通联纪录的新函，上述裁决提出了疑问。
Thursday's ruling is the first time a higher-level court in the regular judicial system has reviewed the NSA phone records program. It did not come with any injunction ordering the program to cease, and it is not clear that anything else will happen in the judicial system before Congress has to make a decision about the expiring law.
周四的这项裁决，是首次由传统司法体系当中较高等的法院，来审议国安局搜集通联纪录的项目，但其并未针对该项目发布任何禁令。此外，目前仍难以预料，在等待国会针对那项即将到期的法案做出决定时，司法体系中是否还会有别的动作。
The court, in a unanimous ruling written by Judge Gerard E. Lynch, held that Section 215 “cannot bear the weight the government asks us to assign to it, and that it does not authorize the telephone metadata program.”
这项判决经合议庭三位法官一致同意，并由杰拉德·E·林奇法官(Judge Gerard E. Lynch)撰写判词。文中写道，法院认为，第215条“不能承载政府要求吾等赋予其的份量，也并未授权搜集通联纪录元数据的项目。”