We’re in the middle of a remarkable shift in how Americans see the world and their own country’s role in the world. For the first time in half a century, a majority of Americans say that the U.S. should be less engaged in world affairs, according to the most recent Pew Research Center survey. For the first time in recorded history, a majority of Americans believe that their country has a declining influence on what’s happening around the globe. A slight majority of Americans now say that their country is doing too much to help solve the world’s problems.
美国人对世界的看法，以及他们对美国在世界上所起作用的看法，正在发生显著的转变。皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)最近一次调查表明，半个世纪以来，表示美国应减少参与世界事务的美国人首次占到了大多数。在有记载的历史当中，首次有多数美国人认为，美国对全球现状的影响力正在下降。略微超过半数的美国人现在认为，美国为帮助解决全球问题所做的努力过了头。
At first blush, this looks like isolationism. After the exhaustion from Iraq and Afghanistan, and amid the lingering economic stagnation, Americans are turning inward.
乍一看，这有点像是孤立主义。被伊拉克和阿富汗问题弄得精疲力竭之后，面临经济持续停滞的美国人正在把目光转向国内。
But if you actually look at the data, you see that this is not the case. America is not turning inward economically. More than three-quarters of Americans believe the U.S. should get more economically integrated with the world, according to Pew.
然而，如果你认真看看数据，就会发现事实并非如此。从经济上说，美国并没有转向国内。皮尤研究中心的调查表明，超过四分之三的美国人认为，美国应该在经济上进一步融入世界。
America is not turning inward culturally. Large majorities embrace the globalization of culture and the internationalization of colleges and workplaces. Americans are not even turning inward when it comes to activism. They have enormous confidence in personalized peer-to-peer efforts to promote democracy, human rights and development.
从文化上说，美国也没有把眼光转向国内。绝大部分美国人都接受文化全球化，以及院校和工作岗位的国际化。即使从行动主义的方面来看，美国人依然没有把目光转向国内。对于通过地位对等的个人化努力来推动民主、人权和发展，他们抱有极大的信心。
What’s happening can be more accurately described this way: Americans have lost faith in the high politics of global affairs. They have lost faith in the idea that American political and military institutions can do much to shape the world. American opinion is marked by an amazing sense of limitation — that there are severe restrictions on what political and military efforts can do.
目前的情况可以用以下方式作出更准确的描述，即美国人对全球事务的高层政治丧失了信心。他们不再相信美国的政治和军事机构能为塑造世界发挥巨大作用。美国人的看法带有一种惊人的受限感，他们觉得，政治和军事行动的成效面临严重的限制。
This sense of limits is shared equally among Democrats and Republicans, polls show. There has been surprisingly little outcry against the proposed defense cuts, which would reduce the size of the U.S. Army to its lowest levels since 1940. That’s because people are no longer sure military might gets you very much.
多项民意调查显示，怀有这种感受的共和党人和民主党人一样多。对削减国防支出提案的反对之声小得出人意料，尽管该提案将把美军的规模削减到1940年以来的最低水平。之所以如此，是因为人们不再确信，军力能让美国大有作为。
These shifts are not just a result of post-Iraq disillusionment, or anything the Obama administration has done. The shift in foreign policy values is a byproduct of a deeper and broader cultural shift.
这些变化并非是由伊拉克战后的幻灭感或奥巴马政府做过的任何事情造成的。外交政策价值观上的转变是更深更广的文化转变的一个副产品。
The veterans of World War II returned to civilian life with a basic faith in big units — big armies, corporations and unions. They tended to embrace a hierarchical leadership style.
二战老兵回归平民生活时，对庞大的军队、企业和工会等“大团体”秉持着一种基本信任。他们倾向于接受等级分明的领导风格。
The Cold War was a competition between clearly defined nation-states.
冷战是界定明确的民族国家之间的竞争。
Commanding American leaders created a liberal international order. They preserved that order with fleets that roamed the seas, armies stationed around the world and diplomatic skill.
强势的美国领导人构建了一个自由主义的国际秩序。他们用游曳在各大洋上的舰队、驻扎在世界各地的军队和外交谋略来维护这个秩序。
Over the ensuing decades, that faith in big units has eroded — in all spheres of life. Management hierarchies have been flattened. Today people are more likely to believe that history is driven by people gathering in the squares and not from the top down. The liberal order is not a single system organized and defended by American military strength; it’s a spontaneous network of direct people-to-people contacts, flowing along the arteries of the Internet.
随后几十年里，人们对“大团体”的信念日益淡薄——在生活的各个领域都是如此。管理层级已经变得扁平。人们如今更容易相信，历史是由聚集在广场的人群而不是自上而下地推动的。自由主义的秩序不是一个依靠美国军事实力来捍卫、组织的单一体系，而是靠人与人直接接触而自发形成的、在互联网的动脉中流淌的网络。
The real power in the world is not military or political. It is the power of individuals to withdraw their consent. In an age of global markets and global media, the power of the state and the tank, it is thought, can pale before the power of the swarms of individuals.
世上真正的力量不是军事或政治力量，而是个人撤销原先给予的授权的力量。在市场和媒体全球化的时代，一些人认为，在大量个体汇聚成的力量面前，国家和坦克的力量显得苍白。