WASHINGTON — A federal district judge ruled on Monday that the National Security Agency program that is systematically keeping records of all Americans’ phone calls most likely violates the Constitution, describing its technology as “almost Orwellian” and suggesting that James Madison would be “aghast” to learn that the government was encroaching on liberty in such a way.
华盛顿——周一，一位联邦地区法官做出裁决，美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）的一个项目系统地记录了所有美国人的通话，它极有可能违反了宪法，这名法官称，该项目采用的技术“几乎是奥威尔式的[Orwellian]”，并指出，如果詹姆斯·麦迪逊（James Madison，美国第四任总统——编注）知道政府以此种方式侵犯自由，将“目瞪口呆”。
Judge Richard J. Leon of the District of Columbia ordered the government to stop collecting data on the personal calls of the two plaintiffs in the case and to destroy the records of their calling history. But the judge, appointed to the bench in 2002 by President George W. Bush, stayed his injunction “in light of the significant national security interests at stake in this case and the novelty of the constitutional issues,” allowing the government time to appeal it, a matter that he said could take at least six months. 
哥伦比亚特区联邦地区法官理查德·J·利昂(Richard J. Leon)命令政府停止收集本案两名原告的个人通话数据，并销毁相关的通话历史记录。利昂法官是由乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统于2002年任命的。不过，“有鉴于本案涉及重大的国家安全利益，以及这些宪法问题之新”，利昂法官决定暂缓执行裁决，让政府有时间上诉。他说，这将需要至少六个月的时间。
The case is the first in which a federal judge who is not on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which authorized the once-secret program, has examined the bulk data collection on behalf of someone who is not a criminal defendant. The Justice Department has said that 15 separate judges on the surveillance court have held on 35 occasions that the calling data program is legal. 
本案是外国情报监视法庭(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)以外的联邦法官第一次代表非刑事辩护人来调查这个大规模数据收集项目。外国情报监视法庭授权了这个曾经秘密的项目。司法部(Justice Department)曾表示，该法庭15名来自不同法院的法官曾35次做出裁定，支持通话数据收集项目是合法的。
The ruling also marks the first successful legal challenge brought against the program since it was revealed in June after leaks by the former N.S.A. contractor Edward J. Snowden.
6月，前NSA承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)的泄密事件披露了这一项目，而这次裁决是自那以来，针对该项目提出的法律挑战的首次成功。
“I cannot imagine a more ‘indiscriminate’ and ‘arbitrary’ invasion than this systematic and high-tech collection and retention of personal data on virtually every single citizen for purposes of querying and analyzing it without prior judicial approval,” Judge Leon wrote in a 68-page ruling. “Surely, such a program infringes on ‘that degree of privacy’ that the founders enshrined in the Fourth Amendment,” which prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures.
“在预先没有司法批准的情况下，以搜寻信息和分析为目的，系统的采用高科技手段收集和保留几乎每一名公民的个人信息——我想象不出比这种做法更‘不加区分’和‘随意’的侵犯行为，”利昂法官在长达68页的裁决书中写道。“当然，这样的项目侵犯了开国元勋们在宪法第四修正案(Fourth Amendment)中规定的‘那种程度的隐私权’”。第四宪法修正案禁止无正当理由搜索和取得个人信息。
Andrew Ames, a Justice Department spokesman, said government lawyers were studying the decision, but he added: “We believe the program is constitutional as previous judges have found.”
司法部发言人安德鲁·阿梅斯(Andrew Ames)说，政府的律师正在研究上述裁决，但他补充说，“我们相信该项目是符合宪法规定的，如同之前的法官得出的结论那样。”
In a statement from Moscow, where he has obtained temporary asylum, Mr. Snowden praised the ruling.
在一份来自莫斯科的声明中，斯诺登赞赏了这一裁决。斯诺登已经获准在莫斯科暂时避难。
“I acted on my belief that the N.S.A.’s mass surveillance programs would not withstand a constitutional challenge, and that the American public deserved a chance to see these issues determined by open courts,” Mr. Snowden said in his statement. It was distributed by the journalist Glenn Greenwald, who received leaked documents from Mr. Snowden and who wrote the first article about the bulk data collection. “Today, a secret program authorized by a secret court was, when exposed to the light of day, found to violate Americans’ rights,” the statement said. “It is the first of many.”
斯诺登在声明中说，“我的行为都基于这样一个信念，即NSA的大规模监控项目经不起依据宪法做出的挑战，美国公众应该有机会看到公开法庭对这些问题做出裁决。”这份声明是通过记者格伦·格林沃尔德(Glenn Greenwald)传出的。格林沃尔德从斯诺登那里获得了泄密文件，并撰写了第一篇关于这种大规模数据收集的文章。声明中说，“今天，一个秘密法庭授权的秘密项目，在曝光以后被认定侵犯了美国人的权力。但这只是冰山一角。”
The case was brought by several plaintiffs led by Larry Klayman, a conservative legal activist. Mr. Klayman, who represented himself and the other plaintiffs, said in an interview on Monday that he was seeking to turn the case into a class action on behalf of all Americans. “I’m extremely gratified that Judge Leon had the courage to make this ruling,” he said. “He is an American hero.”
该案有多名原告，牵头的是保守的法律维权人士拉里·克雷曼(Larry Klayman)。克雷曼为自己和其他原告代理此案，他周一在接受采访时表示，他正寻求以全体美国人的名义将该案变 为一次集体诉讼。他说，“利昂法官有勇气做出这一裁决，我特别满意。他是美国的英雄。”
Mr. Klayman argued that he had legal standing to challenge the program in part because, he contended, the government had sent inexplicable text messages to his clients on his behalf; at a court hearing, he told the judge, “I think they are messing with me.”
克雷曼说，他有挑战该项目的法律依据，部分原因是，他认为，政府以他的名义向他的客户发送了莫名其妙的手机短信；在一次庭审过程中，他告诉法官，“我认为他们在整我。”
The judge portrayed that claim as “unusual” but looked past it, saying Mr. Klayman and his co-plaintiff instead had standing because it was highly likely, based on the government’s own description of the program as a “comprehensive metadata database,” that the N.S.A. collected data about their phone calls along with everyone else’s.
法官把他的这种说法形容为“不同寻常”，但是没有采纳，而是说，克雷曼和其他原告有依据是因为，根据政府自己对这一项目的描述，称它为一个“综合的元数据数据库”，那么NSA很有可能在收集了他们通话数据的同时也收集了所有人的。
Similar legal challenges to the N.S.A. program, including by the American Civil Liberties Union and the advocacy group Electronic Frontier Foundation, are at earlier stages in the courts.
对NSA这一项目发起法律挑战的还包括美国公民自由联盟(American Civil Liberties Union)和权益组织电子前沿基金会(Electronic Frontier Foundation)，这些案件在法院还处在较早阶段。
The ruling on Monday comes as several government panels are developing recommendations on whether to keep, restructure or scrap the bulk data collection program, and as Congress debates competing bills over the program’s future. Though long and detailed, Judge Leon’s ruling is not a final judgment on the program, but rather a preliminary injunction to stop the collection of data about the plaintiffs while they pursued their case. 
联邦地区法官周一做出上述裁决之际，美国政府的几个专家小组正在就是否保留、重组或取消大规模数据收集项目制定建议，国会也正在对有关该项目未来的几个相抵触的法案进行讨论。尽管篇幅较长且内容详细，但利昂法官的裁决并不是该项目的最终判决，而是一个初期的指令，目的是在原告诉讼期间停止对他们数据的收集。
He also wrote that he had “serious doubts about the efficacy” of the program, saying that the government had failed to cite “a single instance in which analysis of the N.S.A.’s bulk metadata collection actually stopped an imminent attack, or otherwise aided the government in achieving any objective that was time-sensitive.”
他还写道，他“对该项目的效力存有严重怀疑”，他说，政府没有“举出哪怕一个例子，来证明对NSA收集来的大规模元数据进行的分析确实阻止了迫近的袭击，或者在其他方面帮助政府实现了任何具有时效性的目标。”
Judge Leon rejected the Obama administration’s argument that a 1979 case, Smith v. Maryland, had established there are no Fourth Amendment protections for call metadata — information like the numbers dialed and the date, time and duration of calls, but not their content. The 1979 case, which involved collecting information about a criminal defendant’s calls over several days, helped establish the principle that people do not have a reasonable expectation of privacy for information they have exposed to a third party, like the phone company, which knows about their calls.
利昂法官反驳了奥巴马政府的观点，即1979年的史密斯诉马里兰州案(Smith v. Maryland)确立了，第四修正案并不保护电话元数据——比如拨出的号码、日期、时间和通话时长等信息，但保护通话内容。1979年的案子中，一名刑事辩护人多日的通话记录被收集，该案帮助确立了一个原则，即对于曾经披露给第三方的信息，人们不应期望得到隐私权的保护，这里的第三方包括了解用户通话信息的手机运营商。
The surveillance court, which issues secret rulings after hearing arguments from only the Justice Department and without opposing lawyers, has maintained that the 1979 decision is a controlling precedent that shields the N.S.A. call data program from Fourth Amendment review. But Judge Leon, citing the scope of the program and the evolving role of phones and technology, distinguished the bulk collection from the 34-year-old case.
在仅听取司法部观点，没有听取持相反观点律师的意见的情况下，监视法庭曾做出一些秘密裁决。监视法庭坚持认为，1979年的判决是一个重要判例，保护NSA的通话数据收集项目免受第四修正案的限制。但是利昂法官认为，NSA的这一项目与34年前的案子存在本质上的区别，他的理由包括该项目的规模，以及手机和科技所扮演角色的不断演变。
David Rivkin, a former White House lawyer in the George H.W. Bush administration, criticized Judge Leon’s reasoning.
乔治·H·W·布什(George H.W. Bush)执政时任白宫法律顾问的戴维·瑞夫金(David Rivkin)对利昂法官的论证提出了谴责。
“Smith v. Maryland is the law of the land,” Mr. Rivkin said. “It is not for a District Court judge to question the continuing validity of a Supreme Court precedent that is exactly on point.”
“史密斯诉马里兰州案的判决，就是这个国家的法律，”瑞夫金说。“地区法院的法官无权质疑最高法院完全正确的判例所具有的持续效力。”
Judge Leon also pointed to a landmark privacy case decided by the Supreme Court in 2012 that held it was unconstitutional for the police to use a G.P.S. tracking device to monitor a suspect’s public movements without a warrant.
利昂法官还援引了2012年最高法院裁决的一桩具有里程碑意义的隐私侵权案。该案的结论是，警方在没有搜查令的情况下，使用GPS定位设备监控犯罪嫌疑人在公共场所的行踪，属违宪行为。
Although the court decided the case on narrow grounds, five of the nine justices separately called into question whether the 1979 precedent was still valid in an era of modern technology, which enables long-term, automated collection of information.
尽管法院作出上述裁决的依据不那么充分，但是最高法院的九名大法官中，有五名单独提出了质疑：鉴于科技手段已经使长期、自动的信息收集成为可能，在现代科技的时代，1979年的那则判例是否还有效力？