WASHINGTON — The United States will restore full diplomatic relations with Cuba and open an embassy in Havana for the first time in more than a half-century after the release of an American contractor held in prison for five years, American officials said Wednesday.
华盛顿——美国官员周三表示，在古巴释放了一名已被监禁五年的美国承包商之后，美国将与古巴全面恢复外交关系，并将在半个多世纪以来首次于古巴首都哈瓦那设立大使馆。
In a deal negotiated during 18 months of secret talks hosted largely by Canada and encouraged by Pope Francis, who hosted a final meeting at the Vatican, President Obama and President Raúl Castro of Cuba agreed in a telephone call to put aside decades of hostility to find a new relationship between the United States and the island nation just 90 miles off the American coast.
促成上述结果的秘密谈判进行了18个月，主要是在加拿大举行，并得到教皇方济各的支持，教皇本人主持了在梵蒂冈的最后一轮会谈，之后奥巴马总统和古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗(Raúl Castro)通了电话，同意摈弃几十年的敌对情绪，寻找美国与这个离美国海岸仅90英里（不到150公里）远的岛国之间的新关系。
“Today, the United States is taking historic steps to chart a new course in our relations with Cuba and to further engage and empower the Cuban people,” the White House said in a written statement.
“今天，美国正在采取历史性的行动，在我们与古巴的关系上开辟一条新路线，与古巴人民建立进一步的接触，使他们能掌握自己的命运，”白宫在一份书面声明中说。
The contractor, Alan Gross, boarded an American government plane bound for the United States on Wednesday morning, and the United States sent back three Cuban spies who have been in an American prison since 1981. American officials said the Cuban spies were swapped for a United States intelligence agent who has been in a Cuban prison for nearly 20 years and said Mr. Gross was not technically part of the swap but released separately on “humanitarian grounds.”
承包商艾伦·格罗斯(Alan Gross)周三上午搭乘一架美国政府的飞机返回美国，美国则释放了自1981年以来一直被监禁在美国的三名古巴间谍。美国官员表示，古巴间谍交换的是一名美国情报人员，他被关押在古巴监狱已近20年，严格地说，格罗斯不是交换的一部分，而是“出于人道主义考虑”另行释放的。
“Today marks the beginning of a major new chapter in U.S.-Cuban relations,” said Julia Sweig, director of Latin American studies at the Council on Foreign Relations. “Finally we have an American president willing to do the right thing for the national interest, for American standing in Latin America, and for the Cuban people.”
“今天标志着美国与古巴关系史上一个重要新篇章的开端，”对外关系委员会拉美研究中心主任茱莉亚·斯威格(Julia Sweig)说。“我们终于有了一位愿意为国家利益、为美国在拉丁美洲的名声以及为古巴人民做出正确选择的美国总统。”
Mr. Obama has long said American policy toward Cuba has failed to achieve the ends it was intended to achieve and over the years he has made modest changes to restrictions on travel and contact. But it has frustrated him that he has not been able to make more significant changes until now.
奥巴马一直表示，美国对古巴的政策并没有实现其所要达到的目的，在过去几年中，他对旅行和接触的限制做过微小的修改。但令他沮丧的是，直到现在才实现了更显著的变化。
News agencies reported that President Raúl Castro of Cuba also would speak at noon about relations with the United States.
新闻机构报道说，古巴总统劳尔·卡斯特罗也将在中午就古巴与美国的关系发表讲话。
As part of the larger agreement, the United States is releasing three Cuban spies first arrested in Miami in 2001. American officials denied that they were being traded for Mr. Gross and said they were instead being swapped for another person imprisoned in Cuba whois believed to have worked for United States intelligence agencies.
作为协议涉及的更广泛内容的一部分，美国将释放最初于2001年在迈阿密被捕的三名古巴间谍。美国官员否认他们是用来交换格罗斯的，而表示他们是用于交换另一名被古巴关押的美国人，该人据信曾就职于美国情报机构。
“Not swapped for Alan Gross,” said one official.
“不是用来交换艾伦·格罗斯的，”一位官员说。
Mr. Gross’s sister, Bonnie Rubinstein, was “beyond ecstatic” at the news of his release, according to her husband, Harold. “We are extremely grateful that he’s on his way home,” Mr. Rubinstein said by telephone from Dallas. “It’s been a long ordeal.”
格罗斯的姐姐邦妮·鲁宾斯坦(Bonnie Rubinstein)对弟弟被释放的消息“喜不自胜”，据其丈夫哈罗德(Harold)说。“我们由衷地感激他能踏上回家的旅程，”哈罗德·鲁宾斯坦在达拉斯接受电话采访时说。“他已经经受了一段漫长的考验。”
American officials made no immediate comment on how the release was obtained. In the past, government officials, including Secretary of State John Kerry, have publicly ruled out a prisoner swap for three Cuban spies convicted of federal crimes in Miami in 2001.
美国官员就格罗斯如何获释的问题未立即置评。以前，包括国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)在内的政府官员都曾公开表示，不会把2001年在迈阿密被判犯有联邦罪的三名古巴间谍作为囚犯交换的对象。
But Mr. Gross’s health has been failing. He has reportedly lost more than 100 pounds in prison and is losing vision in his right eye. He went on a nine-day hunger strike in April. After turning 65 in May, he told relatives that he might try to kill himself if not released soon.
但是，格罗斯的健康状况越来越糟。据报道，他的体重在狱中下降了100多磅，右眼的视力也在丧失。4月，他曾绝食9天。5月过了65岁生日之后，他告诉亲属，如果不能在近期内获释，他可能会试图自杀。
Mr. Gross was in Cuba to deliver satellite telephone equipment that was capable of cloaking connections to the Internet when he was arrested in 2009. The Cuban authorities, who tightly control access to the Internet in their country, initially said he was a spy, and a court there convicted him of bringing in the devices without a permit as part of a subversive plot to “destroy the revolution.”
2009年被逮捕时，格罗斯正在古巴提供卫星电话设备，这种设备可以掩护互联网连接。古巴当局严格控制国内的互联网访问，当局最初称他是间谍，当地一家法院后来给他定的罪是未经许可进口设备，是“破坏革命”的颠覆阴谋的一部分。
Mr. Gross’s case drew increasing attention as his health deteriorated. He grew despondent and talked of suicide, and his wife, Judy Gross, and other supporters made urgent pleas for his release, but off-and-on diplomatic talks seemed to go nowhere.
随着格罗斯健康状况的恶化，他的情况吸引了越来越多的关注。他变得越来越失望，谈及过自杀，他的妻子朱迪·格罗斯(Judy Gross)和其他支持者紧急呼吁将其释放，但是断断续续的外交谈判似乎毫无起色。
Cuba has often raised the case of three of its spies serving federal prison time in Florida, saying they had been prosecuted unjustly and urging that they be released on humanitarian grounds. State Department officials insisted that the cases were not comparable and that Mr. Gross was not an intelligence agent.
古巴经常提起在佛罗里达州联邦监狱服刑的三名间谍的案件，称对他们的起诉不公正，并呼吁出于人道主义考虑释放他们。国务院官员则坚持认为，这两个案件没有可比性，格罗斯不是情报人员。
Mr. Gross worked for Development Alternatives, of Bethesda, Md., and had traveled to more than 50 countries as an international development worker. The company had a $6 million contract with the United States Agency for International Development to distribute equipment that could get around Cuba’s Internet blockade, and Mr. Gross had made four previous trips to Cuba in 2009.
格罗斯曾受雇于马里兰州贝塞斯达的非传统发展公司(Development Alternatives)，作为国际发展工作者去过50多个国家。该公司与美国国际开发署有一项600万美元的合同，以向古巴销售一种可以避开该国互联网封锁的设备。格罗斯在2009年曾四次前往古巴。
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, the former New Mexico governor and cabinet secretary Bill Richardson and several members of Congress appealed for Mr. Gross’s release, along with Jewish advocacy groups in the United States.
杰西·杰克逊牧师(Rev. Jesse Jackson)、曾任新墨西哥州州长和美国能源部长的比尔·理查森(Bill Richardson)，以及国会的一些成员都曾呼吁释放格罗斯，美国的犹太倡导组织也曾呼吁过。
After visiting Mr. Gross in November, Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona and a longtime advocate of loosening the 50-year-old American trade embargo with Cuba, said he was optimistic that the case would be resolved.
参议员杰夫·费拉克(Jeff Flake)是亚利桑那州共和党人，也是呼吁美国放松对古巴长达50年的贸易禁运的长期倡导者，他曾在11月探视了格罗斯，之后他对案件将得到解决表示乐观。