BURNS, Ore. — The small band of antigovernment protesters who took over a group of federal buildings in rural Oregon said Monday that they aimed “to restore and defend the Constitution,” in particular the rights of ranchers, and set off a national movement, forcing the federal government to release its hold on vast tracts of Western land.
俄勒冈州伯恩斯——一小群反政府抗议者占领了位于俄勒冈州农村地区，属于联邦政府的一些建筑。他们在周一表示，他们这么做是为了“恢复和捍卫宪法”，尤其是牧场主的权利，进而掀起一场全国性的运动，迫使联邦政府放开对西部大片土地的控制。
The federal government, for its part, appeared content, for now, to monitor the situation and wait out the protesters.
目前，联邦政府似乎对当前的局面感到满意，愿意静观其变，等待抗议者撤离。
The F.B.I. said in a statement that while state and local agencies would remain involved in the episode in rural Harney County, the bureau would take the lead. The law enforcement presence in the area appeared to be minimal, and no effort was made to keep the occupiers of buildings at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge from coming and going as they pleased.
联邦调查局(FBI)发表声明称，虽然州及地方机构会继续处理哈尼县(Harney County)发生的事件，但将由FBI牵头。该地区的执法力度似乎微乎其微，没有采取措施阻止占领马卢尔国家野生动物保护区(Malheur National Wildlife Refuge)建筑的人员自由来去。
“Due to safety considerations for both those inside the refuge as well as the law enforcement officers involved,” the F.B.I. said, “we will not be releasing any specifics with regards to the law enforcement response.”
“出于对保护区内的人员及执法官员的安全的考虑，”联邦调查局称，“我们不会公布执法部门反应的相关细节。”
Federal officials may be mindful of past clashes with people who did not recognize government authority that ended in bloodshed — like those at Ruby Ridge, Idaho, in 1992, and Waco, Tex., in 1993 — that became rallying cries for antigovernment militants, including self-styled militias.
联邦官员或许还记得过去那些与不承认政府权威的人员之间发生的，以流血收场的冲突事件——比如1992年在爱达荷州红宝石山脊，以及1993年在德克萨斯州韦科发生的冲突——这些事件成为了反政府激进分子的集结令，其中包括自诩为民兵组织的人员。
In contrast, the government retreated from the 2014 confrontation with Cliven Bundy, a Nevada rancher, when supporters rallied around him and threatened a gun battle with federal officials. For more than two decades, Mr. Bundy has refused to pay fees for grazing his livestock on federal land, becoming a symbol of resistance to people who object to federal control of vast acreage in the West.
与此形成对比，在2014年与内华达州牧场主克莱文·邦迪(Cliven Bundy)的对峙中，政府方面退却了。当时邦迪的支持者集体声援，威胁要与联邦官员开展枪战。20多年来，邦迪一直拒绝支付在联邦土地放牧所需的费用，对于反对联邦政府控制西部大片土地的民众来说，他成为一个反抗的象征。
At a news conference with a handful of the occupiers and their supporters, one of the leaders, Ammon Bundy — a son of Cliven Bundy — expressed confidence that the government would not risk a confrontation. Asked how the group would respond if the government tried to remove them forcibly, he said, “We do not believe they will do that.”
在数名占领者及其支持者举行的新闻发布会上，其中一名领袖安蒙·邦迪(Ammon Bundy)——克莱文·邦迪的儿子——表示他相信政府不会冒险进行对抗。被问及如果政府试图强制赶走他们，该组织会做何反应时，他说，“我们不相信他们会那么做。”
Law enforcement officials ”have reached out to individuals that we are closely affiliated with, and they have gave messages to us,” he said. “They do not intend to come up on us.”
执法官员“已经联系到与我们关系密切的人，他们给我们传达了消息，“他说。“他们没有打算攻击我们。”
Officials in Washington played down the situation, describing the Justice Department and other agencies as being in a kind of wait-and-see mode. While President Obama is “certainly aware” of the situation, said Josh Earnest, a White House spokesman, it is a “local law enforcement matter” to which the president has not given much thought.
华盛顿的官员淡化当地局势，称司法部及其他机构正采取观望态度。白宫新闻发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)表示，虽然奥巴马总统“肯定了解”相关情况，但这是“地方执法问题”，总统没有考虑太多。
The incident added to a fierce debate on social media, with some people offering support to the antigovernment group, and others arguing that if the people involved had not been white, they would have been dealt with harshly.
该事件加剧了社交媒体上的激烈争论，一些人支持反政府组织，其他人则提出，如果参与人员不是白人，他们就会受到严厉打击。
Among the armed protesters involved in occupying the buildings at the refuge, south of here, those who have publicly identified themselves are from outside the area. Even local people and groups who sympathize with their aims have questioned their methods, and asked whether Harney County is being used by outsiders.
在参与占领保护区建筑的武装抗议者中，一些人公开表示自己不是本地人。保护区位于伯恩斯以南。即便那些同情其目标的本地居民和团体，也对他们的方式提出了质疑，并追问哈尼县是否被外地人利用了。
Another group dedicated to opposing what it calls federal overreach, the Three Percenters Club Oregon, said of the takeover on its Facebook page, “These actions destroy everything that the Patriot community has been working toward and show the Patriots in a negative light again.”
另一个团体也致力于反对其所说的“联邦越权行为”。这个名为俄勒冈州百分之三俱乐部(Three Percenters Club Oregon)的团体在其Facebook主页上评价占领行动称：“这些举动毁掉了爱国团体的努力，又一次把爱国者描绘成了负面的形象。”
Some members of Mr. Bundy’s group have claimed that as many as 100 people are involved in the armed takeover of the buildings, but the real figure appears to be much smaller; Mr. Bundy declined to give a number. But, calling themselves Citizens for Constitutional Freedom — a name Mr. Bundy said they had adopted only because reporters kept asking what their group was called — they claimed a mission as grand as their numbers are small.
邦迪组织的一些成员声称，多达100人参与了武装占领保护区房屋的行动，但真实数字似乎要小得多；邦迪拒绝透露具体数字。但这个自称“争取宪法自由公民团体”(Citizens for Constitutional Freedom)的成员声称，尽管他们人数不多，但其使命很宏大。邦迪表示，该组织之所以起这个名称，只是因为记者不断询问这个组织叫什么。
They contend that under the Constitution, the federal government can own only a small amount of land for very limited purposes, which do not include wildlife refuges, and can acquire it only with a state’s consent, by paying the state for it. The courts have not agreed.
他们声称，根据宪法的规定 ，联邦政府只能拥有少量土地，而且只能用于非常有限的用途——并不包括设立野生动物保护区，而且必须要向州付费，并得到许可，才能获取土地。法庭对此一直没有统一意见。
At a glance, the stakes here would appear to be low. On Saturday, the armed group took control of a small group of unoccupied structures, miles from any town, in the dead of winter.
乍看上去，这里的风险似乎很小。周六，该武装组织在严冬之中控制了少量尚未被占领的建筑，这些建筑距离任何城镇都有数英里远。
But Heidi Beirich, the director of intelligence with the Southern Poverty Law Center who oversees the center’s tracking of extremist groups, said that there was a danger to under-reaction, and that the last Bundy standoff set a bad precedent.
但南方贫困法律中心(Southern Poverty Law Center)情报主管海迪·拜里奇(Heidi Beirich)表示，如不采取充分反应，就会带来危险，邦迪参与的上一次对峙，开创了一个不好的先例。拜里奇在该中心负责追踪极端组织。
“They were emboldened by their ability to run federal officials off at the point of a gun,” Ms. Beirich said. “Now, a year and half later, there have been no prosecutions whatsoever. Pointing a gun at a federal officer is a crime.”
“他们当时能端着枪，迫使联邦官员离开，这给他们壮了胆，”拜里奇说。“如今，也就是一年半以后，没人被起诉。用枪指着联邦官员是一种犯罪行为。”