WASHINGTON — A white police officer has been charged with murder, the mayor of North Charleston, South Carolina, said Tuesday, after a video surfaced showing him fatally shooting an apparently unarmed black man in the back while he ran away.
华盛顿——南卡罗来纳州北查尔斯顿市长周二表示，一段视频显示，一名白人警察在一个看上去手无寸铁的黑人男子逃跑时将其枪杀，该警察目前已受到谋杀指控。
The officer, Michael T. Slager, had said he feared for his life because the man took his stun gun in a scuffle after a traffic stop Saturday. A video, however, shows the officer firing eight times as the man fled. The state charges were announced in a news conference Tuesday evening.
开枪警官名叫迈克尔·T·斯雷格(Michael T. Slager)，他表示，周六在路上将对方拦下后，这名男子在扭打中夺走了他的电击枪，所以他担心自己的生命安全会受到威胁。然而，一段视频显示他在这名男子逃走时开了八枪。周二夜间的一次新闻发布会宣布了南卡罗来纳州的指控。
“When you’re wrong, you’re wrong,” Mayor Keith Summey said about the shooting during the news conference. “And if you you make a bad decision, don’t care if you’re behind the shield or just a citizen on the street, you have to live by that decision.”
“错了就是错了，”市长基斯·桑米(Keith Summey)在新闻发布会上评价此次枪击事件。“如果你做了一个糟糕的决定，不管你是佩戴盾徽的执法人员，还是大街上的一名市民，都必须为这个决定负责到底。”
The shooting unfolded after Slager stopped a Mercedes-Benz with a broken taillight, according to police reports. The driver, Walter L. Scott, 50, ran away, and Slager chased him into a grassy lot that abuts a muffler shop. He fired his Taser, an electronic stun gun, but it did not stop Scott, according to police reports.
警方报告称，斯雷格先是拦下了一辆尾灯破碎的梅赛德斯-奔驰(Mercedes-Benz)，而后发生了枪击事件。50岁的司机沃尔特·L·斯科特(Walter L. Scott)后来试图逃跑，斯雷格追着他到了一家修车行附近的一片绿地。警方报告称，他使用了自己的电击枪，但是没能阻止斯科特。
Moments later, Slager reported on his radio, “Shots fired and the subject is down. He took my Taser,” according to police reports.
根据警方报告，片刻之后，斯雷格用自己的无线电设备报告称，“我开了枪，目标已倒下。他夺走了我的电枪。”
But the video, which was taken by a bystander and provided to The New York Times, presents a different account. The video begins in the vacant lot, apparently moments after Slager fired his Taser. Wires, which carry the electrical current from the stun gun, appear to be extending from Scott's body as the two men tussle and Scott turns to run.
但是，从一名旁观者拍摄并提供给《纽约时报》的视频来看，事情经过并非如此。视频的开头发生在一片空地，此时明显距离斯雷格使用电击枪已经过了一会儿。当两人扭打后斯科特选择逃跑时，输送电枪电流的电线似乎挂在斯科特身上。
Something — it is not clear whether it is the stun gun — is either tossed or knocked to the ground behind the two men and Slager draws his gun, the video shows. When the officer fires, Scott appears to be 15 to 20 feet away and fleeing. He falls after the last of eight shots.
视频显示，有东西——目前尚不清楚是不是电枪——或是被扔或是被撞到了两人身后的地上，然后斯雷格拔出了自己的枪。当他开火时，斯科特似乎在距离他15到20英尺（约合4.5米到6米）的地方试图逃跑。八次枪击之后，斯科特最后倒地不起。
The shooting in North Charleston comes on the heels of high-profile incidents of police officers using lethal force in New York, Cleveland, Ferguson, Missouri, and elsewhere around the country. The deaths have sparked a national debate over whether police are too quick to use force, particularly in cases involving black men.
在此之前，纽约、克利夫兰、密苏里州弗格森和美国其他地方的警察使用致命武力的事件已经备受瞩目。这些致命事件引发了一场关于警察使用武力是否过于草率的全国性争论，尤其是在涉及黑人的案件中。
A White House task force has recommended a host of changes to the nation's police policies, and President Barack Obama dispatched Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to cities around the country to try to improve police relations with minority neighborhoods.
一个白宫工作组曾建议对国家的警察政策进行一系列修改，美国总统贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)也曾派司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)前往全国各城市，尝试改善警察与少数族裔社区的关系。
The South Carolina Law Enforcement Division, the state's criminal investigative body, is investigating the shooting. The Justice Department, which has opened a string of civil rights investigations into police departments under Holder, is also reviewing the shooting.
南卡罗来纳州的刑事调查机构南卡罗来纳州执法部(Law Enforcement Division)正在对此次枪击案进行调查。在霍尔德的领导下，对警察部门展开一系列民权调查的司法部(Justice Department)也在调查此次枪击案。