WASHINGTON — In the seven years since the housing market started to fall apart, politicians of both parties have promised repeatedly to build a better system for financing the American dream of owning a home. There is little sign of progress.
华盛顿——在房地产市场开始崩溃之后的七年间，两党的政治人物都曾多次承诺建立一个更好的制度，为实现拥有家园的美国梦提供资金。然而，迄今为止，几乎没有进步的迹象。
Instead, the stopgap nationalization of housing finance has hardened into one of the most enduring legacies of the Great Recession. The federal government guaranteed about 87 percent of new mortgage loans last year, through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration, effectively setting the terms and providing the money for nine out of 10 home purchases and refinanced loans.
相反，住房金融国有化的权宜之计已经成为大衰退(Great Recession)留下的最持久的遗产之一。联邦政府去年通过房利美(Fannie Mae)、房地美(Freddie Mac)及联邦住房管理局(Federal Housing Administration)为大约87%的新增抵押贷款作了担保，有效地设定了相关条款，并为90%的购房活动及额外贷款计划提供了资金。
In a speech on Tuesday, President Obama signaled that Washington may finally be returning to the place where the financial crisis started. With the housing market on the mend, Mr. Obama said it was time to “wind down” Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
在周二的一次讲话中，奥巴马总统表示，华盛顿可能最终会退回金融危机开始时的立场。由于房地产市场正在好转，奥巴马表示，是时候“减弱”房利美及房地美的作用了。
“I believe that our housing system should operate where there’s a limited government role and private lending should be the backbone of the housing market,” Mr. Obama said in Phoenix, a city that is a symbol of both housing booms and busts.
奥巴马在凤凰城表示，“我认为，政府只应该在住房体系中发挥有限的作用，民间借贷应该成为房地产市场的支柱。”凤凰城是房地产兴衰的象征。
The president praised a bipartisan Senate effort to replace Fannie and Freddie with a system that would charge lenders for explicit government guarantees of some mortgage loans. And while there is a risk that the cost of borrowing would increase, Mr. Obama also said that he wanted to preserve the wide availability of the 30-year, fixed-rate loans that are preferred by most Americans.
奥巴马称赞了参议院中的两党议员努力创建一种制度取代房利美和房地美的举措，这种制度规定，如果政府明确地为一些按揭贷款作担保，贷方就要缴费。虽然借贷成本可能会因此增加，但奥巴马还表示，他希望能够保留大多数美国人首选的30年期固定利率贷款的广泛可得性。
House Republicans are proposing a sharper retreat, preserving only the government’s support for lending to lower-income families. Proponents say it, too, would preserve the availability of 30-year fixed-rate loans, though they are not widely available in countries without government-backed systems.
众议院共和党人准备提出一项更为剧烈的撤退举措，仅保留政府对低收入家庭贷款的支持。支持者称，该举措也会保留30年期的固定利率贷款的可得性，尽管在那些没有政府支持体系的国家，这种贷款已经不再普遍存在。
“Washington has suddenly come alive on housing finance reform,” said David Stevens, president of the Mortgage Bankers Association, who headed the Federal Housing Administration during Mr. Obama’s first term. “We saw nothing substantive prior to this year, but now we’re in a housing recovery and the odds have clearly improved given that both the House and Senate have weighed in.”
“华盛顿在住房金融改革方面突然活跃起来，”美国抵押贷款银行家协会(Mortgage Bankers Association)主席戴维·史蒂文斯(David Stevens)说。“今年之前，我们没有看到任何实质性的变化，不过，房地产现在正在复苏，鉴于众议院和参议院都已经参与进来，变化的几率明显提高。”史蒂文斯曾在奥巴马第一任期内领导联邦住房管理局。
For all the talk, however, it will be difficult to alter the government’s role in housing finance, which has remained substantially unchanged for half a century — notwithstanding Fannie and Freddie’s move from informal to formal wards of the state. That is because Americans like cheap mortgage loans and it is hard to preserve the benefits without the costs of the current system.
然而，尽管有以上这些说法，改变政府在住房金融中的角色仍将十分困难，这种角色在半个世纪的时间里都没有出现实质性的改变——只不过房利美和房地美从国家的非正式管理员转为了正式管理员。这是因为美国人想要低廉的抵押贷款，很难在去除现有制度成本的情况下保护这种利益。
Fannie, Freddie and the Federal Housing Administration backed 87 percent of new mortgage loans over the last five years, the same share they backed in 2012, according to estimates by Inside Mortgage Finance, a trade publication. In the years before the crisis, less than 40 percent of the market was government-backed.
根据行业出版物《抵押贷款金融内幕》(Inside Mortgage Finance)的估计，过去五年，房利美、房地美和和联邦住房管理局为87%的新增抵押贷款提供了支持，这与它们在2012年支持的贷款比例相同。在危机爆发之前的那几年，只有不到40%的抵押贷款获得了政府的支持。
The government’s heavy hand is holding down interest rates, helping the housing market and the broader economy to recover. The average rate on a 30-year loan was 4.37 percent in July, according to Freddie Mac, a full percentage point above rates earlier in the year, but still very low by historical standards.
政府的大力干涉正在压低利率，帮助房地产市场和更广泛的经济复苏。根据房地美的数据，7月，30年期贷款的平均利率为4.37%，比今年早些时候高出了整整一个百分点，但却还是比历史水平低很多。
There is growing concern, however, that the government’s risk aversion and the absence of private competition are suppressing the availability of loans. The average credit score for borrowers whose loans were bought by Freddie Mac rose to 756 in 2012 from 720 in 2006, according to its securities filings.
然而，人们越来越担心，政府的风险规避和私人行业竞争的欠缺正在影响贷款的可得性。据房地美提交给证券监管机构的文件显示，该公司所购贷款的借款人的平均信用评分从2006年的720上升到了2012年的756。
Mortgage companies, backed by some federal officials, say Fannie and Freddie are being too aggressive in pursuing refunds from lenders when borrowers default, leading lenders to reject applicants they deem even mildly risky.
得到部分联邦官员支持的一些抵押贷款公司称，贷款人违约时，房利美和房地美在要求出借方还款时过于咄咄逼人，这样一来，出借方甚至会拒绝那些他们认为风险不太高的申请人。
Other critics of Fannie and Freddie make the opposite point, that government support for housing, by making mortgage loans more affordable, is distorting the economy. The government, they say, is subsidizing homeownership, with much of the benefit flowing to affluent Americans, at the expense of biomedical research or bridge repairs.
房利美和房地美的其他批评者持截然不同的观点，认为政府对房地产市场的支持，即让抵押贷款更易于负担，正在让经济扭曲。他们表示，政府正在补贴购买住宅的活动，其中的大部分利益都流向了美国的富人，代价则是牺牲了生物医学研究或桥梁维修。
Most of all, demands for an overhaul of the current system reflect the confounding reality that the government, which spent vast sums cleaning up the last housing crash, is still promising to pay for the next one.
最重要的是，改革当前制度的需求反映出了一个令人大吃一惊的事实，即政府花费了巨资来收拾上一次房地产市场崩溃的残局，如今却仍在承诺会为下一次崩溃买单。
“Taxpayers are taking on trillions in risk for no discernible policy goal,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial Analytics, a consulting firm. “The government is running the market, but there is no coherent policy. You have taxpayers subsidizing mansions in much of the country.”
“纳税人正因政策目标不明确而承担数万亿的风险，”咨询公司联邦金融分析公司(Federal Financial Analytics)执行合伙人卡伦·彼得鲁(Karen Petrou)说，“政府正在管理市场，但却没有一个明晰连贯的政策，让纳税人来补贴全国许多地区的大厦。”
The list of obstacles, however, only begins with the generic facts that the Republican House and the Democratic Senate are agreeing on legislation of any kind at a historically low rate, and that both parties are bracing for fiscal battles this fall.
然而，改革面临诸多障碍，首先是一个总体上的事实，即不管面对何种立法，共和党控制的众议院和民主党把持的参议院达成一致的几率均属历史最低，而且两党都在为今年秋天的财政大战做准备。
The real challenge is drafting a replacement. The terms of the government’s involvement in housing finance have remained substantially unchanged because the benefits are wildly popular with powerful interest groups, including banks, builders, real estate agents — and, of course, homeowners.
真正的挑战是起草一项替代政策。政府介入住宅信贷的条件基本没有多大变化，因为强有力的利益集团普遍欢迎由此而来的好处，这些集团包括银行、建筑商和房地产经纪，当然还有房屋所有人。