WASHINGTON — With the government reopened and a debt default averted for now, Congressional negotiators on Thursday plunged into difficult budget talks to avoid a repeat crisis within months, and quickly agreed to lower their sights from the sort of grand bargain that has eluded the two parties for three years.
华盛顿——美国暂时避免了债务违约的发生，政府也重新投入运转，在此背景下，国会的谈判者于周四投身于艰难的预算谈判，以避免数月之内重现危机。他们迅速达成一致，要降低自己的着眼点，不涉及两党过去三年里一直未能谈成的那类大交易。
After approval late Wednesday of the agreement ending the standoff, the deal-making mantle shifted overnight from the leaders of the Senate to the Budget Committee leaders, Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, and Representative Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, two less senior lawmakers who nonetheless could make very effective salespeople since they command loyal followings in their parties. The political pressure lifted as well, for now.
自终结僵局的协议于周三晚间获得批准之后，达成交易的责任一夜之间就从参议员领袖手中转移到了预算委员会(Budget Committee)领袖手中，他们是华盛顿州民主党参议员帕蒂·默里(Patty Murray)和威斯康星州共和党众议员保罗∙D∙瑞安(Paul D.Ryan)。这两位议员虽然职位稍低，但却拥有各自党派的忠诚拥戴，因此依然可以成为卓有成效的推销员。此外，政治方面的压力也暂时得到了缓解。
But the need for a bipartisan breakthrough, even a modest one, was amplified by the economic costs wrought by the 16-day shutdown and near-default on government obligations.
不过，长达16日的政府停摆和政府迫近债务违约的局面造成了可观的经济成本，放大了各方对两党取得突破，哪怕是较小突破的需求。
“The key now is a budget that cuts out the things that we don’t need, closes corporate tax loopholes that don’t help create jobs, and frees up resources for the things that do help us grow — like education and infrastructure and research,” President Obama said Thursday from the White House, setting ambitious goals for Congress even as his own role in the bargaining was unclear.
周四，奥巴马总统在白宫表示，“目前的关键是达成一个预算，这个预算应该削减我们不需要的项目，填补无助于创造就业岗位的企业税收漏洞，为有助于我们实现增长的项目——比如教育、基础设施和研究——腾出资源。”他的话给国会设定了雄心勃勃的目标，与此同时，他将在谈判中扮演什么角色还不明朗。
The question of what a new House-Senate budget conference can deliver by its Dec. 13 deadline — in time for Congress to act by Jan. 15 on funding to keep the government open — remained the subject of deep skepticism, well earned by past failures at reaching so-called grand bargains for deficit reduction and spending investments in the past three years.
在12月13日这个期限到来之前，参众两院的新预算会议究竟能拿出什么结果？这个问题依然笼罩着深切的怀疑，其根本原因是过去三年里，国会始终未能就削减赤字和支出投入达成所谓的大交易。12月13日的期限足以让国会继续为政府维持运转提供拨款，直至明年1月15日。
With the scope of the talks narrowed for now, on the table are ideas left over from past, failed bargaining: possible reductions in other programs — like farm subsidies, federal pensions, the Postal Service and unemployment insurance — and relatively minimal tax loophole closings, possibly as little as $55 billion.
随着谈判范围的暂时缩小，搁在谈判桌上的是过去的失败谈判留下的建议，也就是寻找可以削减的其他项目，如农业补贴、联邦养老金、美国邮政服务(Postal Service)和失业保险，以及填补相对较小的税收漏洞，数额可能仅为550亿美元。
While there is nonetheless hope on both sides for a defining budget deal, the three-week budget crisis scrambled Washington’s power structure.
双方依然有希望达成决定性的预算协议，尽管如此，三周的预算危机还是搅乱了美国政坛的权力架构。
Democrats, united throughout, believe they enter this next round far stronger, backed by a president who proved his own resolve. Republicans, having played their trump card by shutting down the government, are weakened and more divided than ever.
总统已经证明了自己的决心，自始至终团结在一起的民主党人确信，在总统的支持之下，自己以远比以前强大的姿态进入了下一轮谈判。已打出关闭政府这张王牌的共和党人则受到了削弱，内部分化也比以往任何时候都要严重。
Reflecting his party’s chastened state heading into the next phase, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, told the conservative National Review on Thursday, “A government shutdown is off the table.”
本周四，共和党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)对保守的《国民评论》(National Review )表示，“政府停摆不会被拿来讨论。”他的话反映了共和党在进入下一阶段谈判时的追悔心态。
Even so, Republicans enter these new talks with one advantage: if the negotiations fail, the next round of across-the-board spending cuts known as sequestration will hit automatically, even deeper than the first. Democrats want to avoid that far more than Republicans do.
即使如此，共和党进入新谈判时仍然拥有一个优势：如果谈判失败，名为自动减赤的下一轮全面支出削减计划将会自动生效，力度甚至比第一轮还大。民主党远比共和党更想避免这种结果。
Both Mr. Ryan and Ms. Murray struck positive notes.
瑞安和默里都对谈判发表了积极的看法。
“Our goal is to do good for the American people, to get our debt under control, to do smart deficit reduction, and to do things we think can grow the economy and get people back to work,” Mr. Ryan said.
瑞安说，“我们的目标是为美国人民谋福利、控制债务、精明地减少赤字，同时采取一些我们认为能促进经济增长、让人们重返工作岗位的措施。”
Ms. Murray said, “We believe there is common ground.”
默里说，“我们认为，双方可以找到共同立场。”
By definition, common ground suggests no grand bargain, which would require a much more difficult trade-off where they fundamentally differ — higher tax revenues that Republicans oppose, in exchange for reductions in Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security that Democrats vow they will not entertain without curbs on tax breaks for wealthy individuals and corporations.
从定义来看，共同立场意味着不存在大的交易。如果有大交易，双方就需要对一个存在根本差异的问题进行艰难得多的磋商。这个交易就是，以共和党反对的提高征税来换取减少医疗保险(Medicare)、医疗补助(Medicaid)和社会安全福利(Social Security)等方面的开支，而民主党一直誓称，如果不控制对富有个人或企业的税收减免，他们就不接受上述做法。
With the last-minute settlement, Washington found itself battered, exhausted and about where it was back in March in terms of budget progress. That month, Congressional Republicans and the White House failed to prevent the sequestration cuts from taking effect across military and domestic programs.
在最后关头达成协议后，美国政府饱受损伤、精疲力竭，在预算问题上几乎回到了3月份的状况。今年3月，国会共和党人和白宫未能阻止自动减赤在军事和国内事务项目上生效。
The Republican-led House and Democratic-controlled Senate passed vastly different budgets, but Republicans blocked Democrats’ repeated efforts to convene a conference committee to reconcile the differences — until this week.
由共和党领导的众议院和由民主党控制的参议院分别通过了差异显著的预算方案，尽管民主党多次尝试组织旨在弥合差异的会议委员会，共和党却一直予以抵制——这种情况直到本周才改变。
Congress not only reopened the government through Jan. 15 and raised the nation’s borrowing limit effective to Feb. 7 on Wednesday. It also mandated the formal budget negotiations in a separate parliamentary motion.
周三，国会决定维持政府开门至1月15日，将美国债务上限到期日延至2月7日，并且通过另一项国会动议决定进行正式的预算协商。
“Nobody can guarantee success, but what we can say is that if we don’t make the effort and get together and talk, that would guarantee failure,” said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, House Democrats’ chief negotiator.
马里兰州众议员、众议院民主党首席谈判代表克里斯·范霍伦(Chris Van Hollen)说，“没人能保证成功，但我们能说的就是，如果我们不努力、不团结起来、不进行对话，失败就是必然的事情。”
To improve the prospects for some success, the negotiators largely agreed at a closed-door breakfast on Thursday that a deal involving significant new tax revenues and large-scale changes to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, whose growth in an aging population is driving long-term projections of growing debt, is not going to happen.
为了增加成功的可能性，谈判人员在周四的一次关门早餐上基本达成一致，不会达成内容包括大量新税收以及对医疗保险、医疗补助和社会保障福利进行大幅度调整的协议。长期看来，老龄人口增长带来的更多福利支出会增加政府负债。
Instead, they agreed, the talks will aim at a more modest confidence-building measure to replace the sequestration cuts in 2014. Negotiators could aim higher, for a deal saving at least $1 trillion over the next nine years to substitute completely for the arbitrary sequestration cuts. But neither side was hopeful of that.
他们一致同意，谈话的目标将是出台一项更为适度、能够树立信心的政策，以之取代2014年的自动减赤。谈判人员还可以确立更高的目标，制定一个能在未来九年内节省至少1万亿美元的协议，以便完全取代不留余地的自动减赤政策。但双方都对此不抱希望。
By his televised remarks at the White House, Mr. Obama sought to project a tone of compromise, aides said, though some Republicans heard some partisan gloating. He also described a budget goal more expansive than the Congressional negotiators are setting, but one that neither party’s leaders rule out.
助手们说，奥巴马试图在白宫的电视讲话中表现出妥协的口吻，有些共和党人却还是认为，他听起来有些为自己党派的胜利得意。他提出的预算目标比国会谈判人员所设定的范围更广，但两党领导人都没有把这个目标排除在外。
“This shouldn’t be as difficult as it’s been in past years because we already spend less than we did a few years ago,” Mr. Obama said. “Our deficits are half of what they were a few years ago. The debt problems we have now are long term, and we can address them without shortchanging our kids, or shortchanging our grandkids, or weakening the security that current generations have earned from their hard work.”
“与过去几年相比，这应该不难，因为我们的开支已经比几年前少了一些，”奥巴马说。“我们的赤字是几年前的一半。现在的债务问题具有长期性，我们完全可应对这个问题，不用亏待我们的孩子、不用亏待我们的孙辈，也不用损害当前这代人通过辛苦工作换来的安全保障。”