BERLIN — The Obama administration will increase the number of refugees the United States is willing to accept in 2017 to 100,000, a significant increase over the current annual worldwide cap of 70,000, Secretary of State John Kerry said on Sunday.
柏林——美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周日表示，奥巴马政府计划将美国2017年愿意接纳的难民人数增至10万。相比美国目前接收全球难民的年度限额7万，这是个不小的增长。
The announcement came as Mr. Kerry conferred here with German officials on the wave of migrants that has swamped Europe and met with Syrian refugees who are seeking asylum in Europe.
克里宣布这一消息的时机是他在柏林与德国官员就移民大量涌入欧洲的问题进行商谈，并会见在欧洲寻求庇护的叙利亚难民。
Under the new plan, the U.S. limit on annual refugee visas would be increased to 85,000 in 2016. The cap would then rise to 100,000 the following year.
按照这一新计划，美国允许签发的难民签证限额将于2016年增至8.5万，并在之后的一年达到10万的上限。
The response still falls far short of the global demand for resettlement from those fleeing the Syrian war, turmoil in Iraq and Afghanistan and other conflicts. From Syria alone, 4 million people are in United Nations refugee camps outside the country, and hundreds of thousands of people from that region and Africa have been pouring into Europe.
这一举措仍然远远不能满足全球范围内的安置需求。这些人因叙利亚战争、伊拉克和阿富汗的动乱及其他地区的冲突而逃离本国。单单叙利亚，就有400万人聚集在其境外的联合国难民营，还有数十万来自中东和非洲的难民正涌入欧洲。
The Obama administration has been under pressure to accept more Syrian refugees, and Mr. Kerry said that the United States would explore ways to increase the limit beyond 100,000, while carrying out background checks to ensure that the refugees have not been infiltrated by terrorists.
奥巴马政府一直承受着接收更多叙利亚难民的压力。克里表示，美国将探索更多途径，以进一步提高接受难民的限额，使之超越10万，同时他们会对难民实施背景调查，以防恐怖分子渗透。
“We still need to do more and we understand that,” Mr. Kerry said in a joint news conference with the German foreign minister, Frank Walter-Steinmeier.
“我们知道，还需要做更多努力，”克里在与德国外交部长弗兰克-瓦尔特·施泰因迈尔(Frank Walter-Steinmeier)举行的联合发布会上表示。
“This step is in keeping with America’s best tradition as a land of second chances and a beacon of hope,” he said, and added that it “will be accompanied by additional financial contributions” for the relief effort.
“这一行动是为了保持美国作为人生重启之地和希望的灯塔的优良传统，”他说。他还表示，为缓解难民危机，美国“还将另外提供一些援助资金”。
The response from the United States is unlikely to relieve much of the pressure on European nations, particularly Germany, which remains the most coveted destination for most of the arriving migrants. Other efforts to address the crisis, such as sharing distribution of the migrants among European Union members, have foundered so far, and in the absence of a unified and effective humanitarian and border security policy the migrants have been left to find their own way across the Continent.
对于减轻欧洲国家，尤其是德国，所承受的压力，美国的这一举措不大可能起到太大作用。德国一直是大多数移民梦寐以求的目的地。解决这一危机的其他一些努力，诸如在欧盟国家内部分散接收移民的压力，迄今未能成功。在缺少统一而有效的人道援助和边境安全政策的情况下，移民们只能靠自己的力量穿越欧洲大陆。
The United States has only taken in about 1,500 Syrian refugees since the start of the conflict more than four years ago, while Europe has been absorbing hundreds of thousands.
自叙利亚冲突在四年多前爆发以来，美国至今只接收了大约1500名叙利亚难民，而欧洲吸纳了数十万。
The White House said earlier this month that it would take in at least 10,000 Syrian refugees over the next year, and the administration’s decision to raise the ceiling for all refugees worldwide in 2016 will allow for that increase.
本月早些时候，白宫表示，将在接下来一年接收至少1万名叙利亚难民，而奥巴马政府决定提高美国2016年接收全球难民名额的决策，会为实现这一增长提供空间。
Raising the worldwide ceiling to 100,000 in 2017, a senior State Department official, would enable a further increase in Syrian refugees accepted by the United States.
国务院的一名高级官员表示，接收全球难民的名额上限在2017年增至10万，将使美国可以接收的叙利亚难民人数进一步增加。
“The idea is to have a steep ramp up,” said the official, who asked not to be identified under the agency’s protocol for briefing reporters.
“这一决策是为了大幅增加人数，”此人说。依据美国国务院向记者提供信息的惯例，该官员要求不具名。
American officials said that the Syrian refugees accepted by the United States over the next year would be drawn from a list of some 18,000 that the United Nations prepared before the current influx of migrants in Europe.
多名美国官员表示，美国明年接收的叙利亚难民将从一个约1.8万人的名单中选取。该名单是在目前这股移民大潮涌入欧洲之前由联合国拟就的。
But beside security and economic concerns, the Obama administration faces a difficult political climate in the midst of a presidential election in which many Republican voters appear to be seeking tougher immigration policies, not more welcoming. At the same time, efforts have ramped up to pressure the administration to do more.
不过，除了安全和经济方面的担忧，奥巴马政府在总统竞选的环境下还面临比较困难的国内政治氛围，不少共和党选民似乎在追求更严苛而非更包容的移民政策。与此同时，还有人在加大向政府施压的力度，要求做出更多努力。
Earlier last week, more than 20 former senior officials, including some who served in the State Department and Pentagon during the Obama administration, urged the White House to accept 100,000 Syrian refugees.
上周早些时候，包括一些曾在奥巴马任期内就职于国务院和五角大楼的官员在内，共计20多名前高级官员，敦促白宫接收10万名叙利亚难民。
“We urge that you announce support for a refugees admissions goal of 100,000 Syrian refugees on an extraordinary basis, over and above the current worldwide refugee ceiling of 70,000,” they wrote in a letter to President Obama and congressional leaders. “With some four million Syrian refugees in neighboring countries and hundreds of thousands of Syrian asylum seekers in Europe, this would be a responsible exercise in burden sharing.”
“我们敦促您基于特殊情况考虑，宣布支持接收10万叙利亚难民的目标，超越目前的接收全球7万难民的额度上限，”他们在一封写给奥巴马总统和国会领导人的信函中写道。“大约400万叙利亚难民正在邻国等待，数十万叙利亚人在欧洲寻求庇护。我们理应采取这一负责任的措施，与这些国家一起分担。”
That letter was signed by some prominent veterans of the Obama administration: Michèle A. Flournoy, a former under secretary of defense; Derek Chollet, who served as an assistant defense secretary; Harold H. Koh, who served as the State Department’s legal adviser; Eric P. Schwartz, who was a senior refugee official in the State Department and Robert S. Ford, whom Mr. Obama named to serve as ambassador to Syria.
签署这一信函的人包括曾为奥巴马政府效力的一些重量级资深人士：前国防部副部长米歇尔·A·弗卢努瓦 (Michèle A. Flournoy)、前助理国防部长德雷克·夏勒特(Derek Chollet)、曾担任国务院法律顾问的高洪柱(Harold H. Koh)、曾在国务院担任难民事务高官的埃里克·P·施瓦茨(Eric P. Schwartz)，以及曾被奥巴马任命为驻叙利亚大使的罗伯特·S·福特(Robert S. Ford)。
David Miliband, the former British foreign secretary who heads the International Rescue Committee, has called on the United States to resettle 65,000 Syrians by the end of 2016.
英国前外交大臣、现国际救援委员会(International Rescue Committee)主席戴维·米利班德(David Miliband)也呼吁美国在2016年年底之前安置6.5万名叙利亚人。
Mr. Obama has the authority to increase the refugee cap, but Congress will need to approve the additional funding. State Department officials have said that it cost $1.1 billion to accept and resettle 70,000 refugees in 2015.
奥巴马总统有权决定增加难民接收上限，但他需要国会通过所需的额外预算。国务院官员表示，2015年接收和安置7万难民的工作共计花费了11亿美元。
Mr. Kerry’s visit came as thousands more migrants were waiting at Germany’s doorstep in Austria to either enter Germany for settlement or pass through it to get to other prosperous countries in northern Europe. On Sunday, nearly 10,000 more asylum-seekers who had pushed through Hungary overnight and had been bused to camps near Austria’s eastern border were poised to move on to Germany. Many of the migrants have identified themselves as Syrians.
就在克里访问德国的时候，又有成千上万的移民在德奥边境的奥地利一侧等待。他们想要进入德国定居，或穿过德国前往欧州北部其他富裕国家。周日，有将近1万多名寻求庇护的人准备继续前往德国。此前他们连夜强行穿越了匈牙利，之后被运送到靠近奥地利东部边境的营地里。这些移民有很多自称是叙利亚人。