Washington — There was a time when Saudi and American interests in the Middle East seemed so aligned that the cigar-smoking former Saudi ambassador, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, was viewed as one of the most influential diplomats in Washington.
华盛顿——曾几何时，沙特阿拉伯和美国在中东的利益似乎如此一致，以至于抽雪茄的沙特前驻美大使班达尔·宾·苏丹亲王(Prince Bandar bin Sultan)被视为华盛顿最有影响力的外交官之一。
Those days are over. The Saudi king and his envoys — like the Israelis — have spent weeks lobbying fruitlessly against the interim nuclear accord with Iran that was reached in Geneva on Sunday. In the end, there was little they could do: The Obama administration saw the nuclear talks in a fundamentally different light from the Saudis, who fear that any letup in the sanctions will come at the cost of a wider and more dangerous Iranian role in the Middle East.
这样的日子已经结束。与以色列方面一样，沙特国王和他的使节花了几周时间大力游说，反对与伊朗达成临时核协议，但未能奏效。周日，各方在日内瓦达成这项协议。最终而言，沙特方面无能为力：奥巴马政府看待核谈判的角度与沙特在根本上不同；沙特担心放松制裁会使伊朗在中东地区的影响变得更大、更危险。
Although the Saudis remain close American allies, the nuclear accord has crystallized a divergence that began with the Cold War’s end, and has only accelerated with the turmoil now coursing through the Middle East.
虽然沙特仍然是美国的亲密盟友，但是这个核协议暴露了一个始于冷战结束时、随着如今震荡中东地区的冲击波而愈演愈烈的分歧。
For decades, Washington depended on Saudi Arabia — a country of 30 million people but the world’s largest reserves of oil — to shore up stability in a region dominated by autocrats and hostile to another ally, Israel. The Saudis used their role as the dominant power in OPEC to help rein in Iraq and Iran, and they supported bases for the American military, anchoring American influence in the Middle East and beyond.
数十年来，在维持中东稳定的问题上，华盛顿一直依靠沙特阿拉伯——这个国家只有3000万人口，但石油储量却位居世界之首。在中东地区占主导的是威权者，而且对美国的另一个盟友以色列持敌对姿态。沙特利用其在石油输出国组织(OPEC)的主导地位来帮助遏制伊拉克和伊朗，同时支持美军基地，奠定了美国在中东及周边地区的影响力。
But the Arab uprisings altered the balance of power across the Middle East, especially with the ouster of the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, a close ally of both the Saudis and the Americans. The United States has also been increasingly reluctant to take sides in the worsening sectarian strife between Shiite and Sunni, in which the Saudis are firm partisans on the Sunni side.
但是，阿拉伯之春改变了中东地区的实力平衡，特别是在埃及总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)——沙特和美国两方面的亲密盟友——被赶下台之后。同时，随着什叶派和逊尼派之间的宗派冲突日益激烈，美国越来越不愿意表态支持任何一方，而在这场冲突中，沙特坚决站在逊尼派一边。
At the same time, new sources of oil have made the Saudis less essential. And the Obama administration’s recent diplomatic initiatives on Syria and Iran have left the Saudis with a deep fear of abandonment.
与此同时，美国新开辟的石油来源降低了沙特的重要性。而奥巴马政府近期对叙利亚和伊朗的外交政策，让沙特深切担心自己会被抛弃。
“We still share many of the same goals, but our priorities are increasingly different from the Saudis,” said F. Gregory Gause III, a professor of Middle East Studies at the University of Vermont. “When you look at our differing views of the Arab Spring, on how to deal with Iran, on changing energy markets that make Gulf oil less central — these things have altered the basis of U.S.-Saudi relations.”
“我们仍然有很多共同目标，但是我们的侧重点和沙特越来越不同了，”佛蒙特大学(University of Vermont)的中东研究教授F·格雷戈里·高斯三世(F. Gregory Gause III)说。“我们在很多事情上看法不同——包括阿拉伯之春(Arab Spring)，如何应对伊朗，以及降低了海湾地区石油重要性的能源市场变化趋势，这些分歧改变了美沙关系的基础。”
The United States always had important differences with the Saudis, including on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the spread of fundamentalist strains of Islam, Mr. Gause added. But the Obama administration’s determination to ease the long estrangement with Iran’s theocratic leaders has touched an especially raw nerve: Saudi Arabia’s deep-rooted hostility to its Shiite rival for leadership of the Islamic world.
高斯还说，美国和沙特一直存在一些重要分歧，比如在巴以冲突和伊斯兰原教旨主义的传播等问题上。但是，奥巴马政府决定缓和与伊朗神权领袖的长期矛盾，触及了一根特别敏感的神经：沙特阿拉伯根深蒂固地反对它的什叶派对手在伊斯兰世界争夺领袖地位。
Saudi reaction to the Geneva agreement was guarded on Monday, with the official Saudi Press Agency declaring in a statement that “if there is good will, then this agreement could be an initial step” toward a comprehensive solution for Iran’s nuclear ambitions.
周一，沙特对日内瓦协议的反应是有所保留的，官方的沙特通讯社(Saudi Press Agency)在声明中宣告，“如果有诚意，那么这项协议有望成为（全面解决伊核问题的）第一步”。
In recent days, Saudi officials and influential columnists have made clear that they fear the agreement will reward Iran with new legitimacy and a few billion dollars in sanctions relief at exactly the wrong time. Iran has been mounting a costly effort to support the government of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, including arms, training and some of its most valuable Revolutionary Guards commandos, an effort that has helped Mr. Assad win important victories in recent months.
近日，沙特官员和有影响力的专栏作家都明确表示，他们担心该协议会给伊朗提供新的合法性，并在极其错误的时机让伊朗利用制裁放宽而获得数十亿美元。为了支持叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的政府，伊朗付出了很高的代价，它不仅向叙利亚输送武器、提供训练，还派遣了伊朗最有价值的革命卫队(Revolutionary Guards)的一些精锐部队；近几个月，此举帮助阿萨德打了几场重要胜仗。
The Saudis fear that further battlefield gains will translate into expanded Iranian hegemony across the region. Already, the Saudis have watched with alarm as Turkey — their ally in supporting the Syrian rebels — has begun making conciliatory gestures toward Iran, including an invitation by the Turkish president, Abdullah Gul, to his Iranian counterpart to pay an official visit earlier this month.
沙特担心，在战场上进一步得手，将意味着伊朗扩大其在中东地区的霸权。沙特已经警惕地注意到，和它一样支持叙利亚反对派的土耳其已经开始向伊朗抛出橄榄枝。例如，土耳其总统阿卜杜拉·居尔(Abdullah Gul)于本月早些时候邀请伊朗总统对土耳其进行正式访问。
In the wake of the accord’s announcement on Sunday, Saudi Twitter users posted a wave of anxious, defeatist comments about being abandoned by the United States.
周日的协议宣布之后，沙特的Twitter用户发表了大量焦虑不安的失败主义言论，称沙特已被美国抛弃。
In many ways, those fears are at odds with the facts of continuing American-Saudi cooperation on many fronts, including counterterrorism. “We’re training their National Guard, we’re doing security plans and training for oil terminals and other facilities, and we’re implementing one of the biggest arms deals in history,” said Thomas W. Lippman, an adjunct scholar at the Middle East Institute who has written extensively on American-Saudi relations.
从很多方面来看，这些担心与美沙两国仍在反恐等许多领域进行合作的事实不相称。“我们为他们的国民警卫队(National Guard)提供训练，为石油码头和其他设施制定安全计划、提供培训。我们还在实施史上规模最大的武器交易，”中东研究所(Middle East Institute)副研究员托马斯·W·李普曼(Thomas W. Lippman)说。他写过许多关于美沙关系的文章。
And despite all the talk of decreasing reliance on Saudi oil, the Saudis remain a crucial producer for world markets.
虽然人们在谈论对沙特石油的依赖度下降，但沙特仍是面向世界市场的重要产油国。
But none of this can obscure a fundamental split in perspectives toward the Geneva accord. The Saudis see the nuclear file as one front in a sectarian proxy war — centered in Syria — that will shape the Middle East for decades to come, pitting them against their ancient rival.
然而，这一切都不能掩盖两国对日内瓦协议的根本视角分歧。在沙特看来，伊朗核问题是一场宗派代理战争的前线——战争的中心在叙利亚，它将塑造中东未来几十年的格局，而他们将在这场战争中与宿敌对决。
“To the Saudis, the Iranian nuclear program and the Syria war are parts of a single conflict,” said Bernard Haykel, a professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton. “One well-placed Saudi told me, ‘If we don’t do this in Syria, we’ll be fighting them next inside the kingdom.’ ”
“对于沙特而言，伊朗核项目和叙利亚战争是同一场冲突的组成部分，”普林斯顿近东研究所(Near Eastern studies)教授伯纳德·黑克尔(Bernard Haykel)说。“一个消息灵通的沙特人告诉我，‘如果我们不在叙利亚与他们斗争，就得准备在王国境内跟他们打仗。’”
In its most feverish form, the Saudi anxiety is not just that the United States will leave them more exposed to Iran, but that it will reach a reconciliation and ultimately anoint Iran as the central American ally in the region. As the Saudi newspaper Al Riyadh put it recently in an unsigned column: “The Geneva negotiations are just a prelude to a new chapter of convergence” between the United States and Iran.
沙特的担忧有时极度强烈，他们不仅担心美国会让他们更易受到伊朗攻击，而且还担心美国会与伊朗达成和解，最终把伊朗当作美国在中东的主要盟友。正如沙特报纸《利雅得报》(Al Riyadh)近期在一篇未署名的专栏文章中所说：“日内瓦谈判只是美伊联盟的新篇章的前奏。”
That may seem far-fetched in light of the ferocious and entrenched anti-Americanism of the Iranian government. But the Saudi king and his ministers have not forgotten the days of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi of Iran, who cherished his status as America’s great friend in the region.
鉴于伊朗政府存在极其强烈而且根深蒂固的反美情绪，这听起来似乎有些牵强。但是，沙特国王和他的部长们没有忘记伊朗国王穆罕默德·礼萨·巴列维(Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi)的时代，他珍视自己作为美国在中东的好朋友的地位。
“The Saudis are feeling surrounded by Iranian influence — in Iraq, in Syria, in Lebanon, in Bahrain,” said Richard W. Murphy, a retired American ambassador who spent decades in the Middle East. “It’s a hard state of mind to deal with, a rivalry with ancient roots — a blood feud operating in the 21st century.”
“沙特人觉得自己被伊朗的影响力包围着——在伊拉克、叙利亚、黎巴嫩和巴林，”曾在中东待过数十年、现已退休的美国大使理查德·墨菲(W·Richard W. Murphy)说。“这种心理状态很难应对，这是一种由来已久的敌对情绪，在一场21世纪的血腥冲突中爆发出来。”