THE year was 1862. Abraham Lincoln was in the White House. “Taps” was first sounded as a lights-out bugle call. And Steinway & Sons was building its first upright pianos in New York.
那是1862年。亚伯拉罕·林肯(Abraham Lincoln)住在白宫。美军第一次吹响熄灯号的旋律。施坦威(Steinway & Sons)正在纽约打造它最早的立式钢琴。
The space-saving design would help change the cultural face of America. After the Civil War, many middle-class families installed them in their parlors. The ability to play the piano was thought to be nearly as important to the marriage potential of single ladies as their skill in cooking and sewing, signaling a young woman’s gentility and culture.
这种节省空间的钢琴设计后来在一定程度上改变了美国的文化面貌。南北战争结束后，很多中产阶级家庭都在客厅里摆上了这种钢琴。对于单身女性的婚姻大事而言，弹奏钢琴的能力几乎被视为与烹饪和缝纫技能一样重要，它标志着年轻女子的温婉和文化修养。
The keys on those pianos were all fashioned from the ivory of African elephants. And that is why one of these uprights, the oldest one known to survive, in fact, is stuck in Japan.
这些钢琴的琴键都是用非洲象的象牙制作的。这就是为什么这些钢琴中的一架，滞留在了日本，实际上那架立式钢琴还是目前所知现存最古老的一架。
The director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service recently issued an order prohibiting the commercial importation of all African elephant ivory into the United States. (Commercial imports had been allowed in some instances, including for certain antiques.)
美国鱼类和野生动物管理局（United States Fish and Wildlife Service，简称FWS）局长近日发布规定，禁止商业进口一切非洲象牙制品到美国。（对于某些特例，商业进口是允许的，比如进口某些古董。）
The Obama administration is also planning to implement additional rules that will prohibit, with narrow exceptions, both the export of African elephant ivory and its unfettered trade within the United States.
奥巴马政府还计划实施另外的一些规定，禁止非洲象牙制品的出口，也禁止美国境内的随意交易，只有极少数情况例外。
The Fish and Wildlife Service has said that these new rules will help stop the slaughter of elephants. But we believe that unless demand for ivory in Asia is reduced — through aggressive education programs there, tougher enforcement against the illegal ivory trade and the creation of a legal raw ivory market — these new American regulations will merely cause the price to balloon and the black market to flourish, pushing up the profit potential of continued poaching.
FWS表示，这些新规则有助于防止大象遭受屠杀。但我们认为，除非亚洲对象牙的需求减少（手段包括在那里积极开展教育项目，对非法象牙贸易加大执法力度，建立合法的象牙原料市场），否则美国的这些新法规只会导致价格飙升和黑市猖獗，使继续偷猎大象的行为拥有更大的盈利潜力。
In short, these new rules proposed by the Fish and Wildlife Service may well end up doing more harm than good to the African elephant.
总之，对于非洲象来说，FWS出台的这些新规则很可能最终弊大于利。
What these regulations will also do is make the import, export and interstate sale of almost any object with African elephant ivory virtually impossible. Anyone who owns any antique African elephant ivory — whether it is an Edwardian bracelet inherited from a grandmother or an ivory-handled Georgian silver tea set owned by an antiques dealer — will be unable to ship or sell it without unimpeachable documentation that proves it is at least 100 years old, has not been repaired or modified with elephant ivory since 1973, and that it arrived in the United States through one of 13 ports of entry.
这些规定还会导致人们无法进口、出口和跨州销售带有非洲象牙的几乎任何物体。任何一件象牙制做的古董，无论是你从祖母那里继承的一只爱德华七世时代的手镯，还是古董商持有的乔治王时代象牙柄银茶具，都无法运输或销售，除非拥有无懈可击的文件证明它至少有100年历史，从1973年之后再也没有用象牙修复或修饰过，而且是通过美国的13个入口港之一抵达了这里。
The story of the Steinway underscores the complexity, rigidity and absurdity of these rules. The piano was salvaged years ago by Ben Treuhaft, a professional piano technician. When his wife took an academic job in Japan, he shipped the piano along with their other household possessions to Tokyo. They moved to Scotland after the Fukushima nuclear accident three years ago, leaving the piano in storage in Japan to be shipped later. Now Mr. Treuhaft is ready to return the piano to the United States and place it in the hands of a friend who planned to display it at her piano shop.
那架施坦威钢琴的经历突显了这些规定的复杂、刻板和荒谬。几年前，专业钢琴技师本·特罗伊哈夫特(Ben Treuhaft)挽救了这架钢琴。他的妻子在日本找到一份大学教职工作之后，他把这架钢琴连同其他家当运到了东京。三年前，福岛核事故发生后，他们搬到了苏格兰，把钢琴寄放在日本，打算晚些时候再托运。现在，特罗伊哈夫特打算把钢琴运回美国，放在一个朋友的钢琴店里进行展示。
But the piano remains in Japan. It lacks the paperwork necessary to clear customs in the United States because Mr. Treuhaft failed, when he shipped the piano abroad, to obtain the required export permit identifying the ivory keys and the piano’s provenance. In the past, the government might have exercised some discretion over Mr. Treuhaft’s oversight. But no more. Moreover, to meet the personal-use exception for an import, the piano would have to be shipped back as part of a household move, and he wants to send it to a friend.
然而，这架钢琴仍然在日本。由于特罗伊哈夫特当年把钢琴运到国外时，未能获得必要的出口许可，证明象牙琴键和钢琴的来源，这架钢琴目前缺乏在美国通关所需的文件。如果是在过去，政府对特罗伊哈夫特这样的疏忽尚有酌情处理的权限，但现在不会这样了。此外，虽然进口个人使用的象牙是一种例外，但要符合这种情况，这架钢琴应该作为搬家时的家庭财产被运回美国，而他想要把钢琴运到朋友那里。
So the piano that Steinway says is its oldest known upright is stuck in Japan.
因此，这架钢琴仍困在日本。施坦威公司称，这是该公司已知的最古老的立式钢琴。
Of course, Mr. Treuhaft is not the only one who is or will be hurt or inconvenienced by this draconian order from the Fish and Wildlife Service, or the new rules that the administration seeks to impose. Musicians already complain of a burdensome process and monthslong delays in securing permits to take their instruments containing ivory abroad. And collectors, gun owners and antiques dealers say they have been blindsided by the proposed rules, which will effectively render their African elephant ivory pieces worthless unless they can meet the extremely difficult standards necessary to sell them.
当然，就FWS的这项严厉法令，以及政府寻求实施的新规定而言，正在或即将受到伤害、遭遇不便的人，不只有特罗伊哈夫特一个。音乐家们已经开始抱怨，为了获得把含有象牙的乐器带到国外的许可，他们要面对繁琐的程序和好几个月耽搁。此外，收藏家、枪支拥有者和古董交易商说，这些新提出的规定让他们措手不及。他们的非洲象牙制品实际上会因为这些规定变得一文不值，除非能够满足苛刻的条件，取得销售许可。