OBITUARIES of Vo Nguyen Giap, the Vietnamese general who helped drive the American military from his country, noted, as The New York Times put it, that “his critics said that his victories had been rooted in a profligate disregard for the lives of his soldiers.”
越南将军武元甲(Vo Nguyen Giap)的多篇讣告提到了一点，正如《纽约时报》曾指出，“批评他的人表示，他的胜利建立在对士兵生命的彻底漠视之上。”
The implication is that the United States lost the war in Vietnam because General Giap thought nothing of sending unconscionable numbers of Vietnamese to their deaths.
言外之意是，美国之所以会在越南战争中失败，是因为武将军肆无忌惮地将大量越南人送上死亡之路。
Yet America’s defeat was probably ordained, just as much, by the Vietnamese casualties we caused, not just in military cross-fire, but as a direct result of our policy and tactics. While nearly 60,000 American troops died, some two million Vietnamese civilians were killed, and millions more were wounded and displaced, during America’s involvement in Vietnam, researchers and government sources have estimated.
然而，美国的失败可能也在于我们致使很多越南人死亡，他们不仅是死于军队的交火之中，也是我们的政策和策略的直接受害者。据研究人员及政府部门的估算，在美国参与越南战争期间，有将近六万名美国士兵死亡，但约有200万越南平民遇难，还有数百万人受伤和流离失所。
Enraged, disgusted and alienated by the abuse they suffered from troops who claimed to be their allies, even civilians who had no inclination to back our opponents did so.
平民遭受以盟友身份自居的部队的虐待，他们因此感到愤怒、厌恶，并产生敌意，即便那些无意支持我们敌人的平民也是如此。
Now, four decades later, in distant lands like Pakistan and Afghanistan, civilians are again treating the United States as an enemy, because they have become the collateral damage of our “war on terror,” largely unrecognized by the American public.
如今，也就是40年之后，在巴基斯坦、阿富汗等遥远的国度，平民再次把美国当作敌人，因为他们成为了美国“反恐战争”的附带牺牲品，而美国公众基本上没有意识到这一点。
In more than a decade of analyzing long-classified military criminal investigation files, court-martial transcripts, Congressional studies, contemporaneous journalism and the testimony of United States soldiers and Vietnamese civilians, I found that Gen. William C. Westmoreland, his subordinates, superiors and successors also engaged in a profligate disregard for human life.
在花了十几年时间分析长期保密的军事犯罪调查文件、军事法庭记录、国会研究、同时期新闻报道，以及美国士兵和越南平民的证词后，我发现威廉·C·威斯特摩兰上将(William C. Westmoreland)和他的下属、上级及继任者也同样漠视人命。
A major reason for these huge losses was that American strategy was to kill as many “enemies” as possible, with success measured by body count. Often, those bodies were not enemy soldiers.
损失惨重的主要原因在于美国的策略——尽可能多地杀死“敌人”，并以死亡人数统计作为衡量是否成功的标准。但这些死者通常不是敌人。
To fight its war of attrition, the United States declared wide swaths of the South Vietnamese countryside to be free-fire zones where even innocent civilians could be treated as enemy forces. Artillery shelling, intended to keep the enemy in a state of constant unease, and near unrestrained bombing slaughtered noncombatants and drove hundreds of thousands of civilians into slums and refugee camps.
为了进行消耗战，美国曾宣布，大片的南越农村地区为自由开火区，在那里，甚至连无辜的平民都有可能被当作敌军对待。旨在使敌军一直处于不安状态的炮弹，以及不受限制的轰炸导致很多非战斗人员遇难，并迫使无数平民逃至贫民窟和难民营。
Soldiers and officers explained how rules of engagement permitted civilians to be shot for running away, which could be considered suspicious behavior, or for standing still when challenged, which could also be considered suspicious. Veterans I’ve interviewed, and soldiers who spoke to investigators, said they had received orders from commanders to “kill anything that moves.”
士兵和军官解释称，出现平民逃跑，或受到盘问时站着不动的情况，交战规则允许他们射杀平民，两种行为都可以被认定为可疑行为。我采访过的老兵，以及与调查者交谈过的士兵们表示，指挥官下达的命令包括，“杀掉任何会动的东西”。
“The Oriental doesn’t put the same high price on life as does the Westerner,” Westmoreland famously said. “Life is plentiful, life is cheap in the Orient.”
威斯特摩兰有一句名言，“与西方人相比，东方人不太重视生命，东方国家人口众多，生命是廉价的。”
Having spoken to survivors of massacres by United States forces at Phi Phu, Trieu Ai, My Luoc and so many other hamlets, I can say with certainty that Westmoreland’s assessment was false.
美国曾在肥符村、潮艾村、美莱村及其他很多小村庄进行屠杀，在与这些屠杀事件的幸存者交谈之后，我可以肯定地说，威斯特摩兰的评价是错误的。
Decades after the conflict ended, villagers still mourn loved ones — spouses, parents, children — slain in horrific spasms of violence. They told me, too, about what it was like to live for years under American bombs, artillery shells and helicopter gunships; about what it was like to negotiate every aspect of their lives around the “American war,” as they call it; how the war transformed the most mundane tasks — getting water from a well or relieving oneself or working in the fields or gathering vegetables for a hungry family — into life-or-death decisions; about what it was like to live under United States policies that couldn’t have been more callous or contemptuous toward human life.
在战争结束数十年后，村民们仍在悼念那些在一系列可怕的暴力事件中遇难的配偶、父母、孩子等亲人。他们还告诉我，他们如何在美国炸弹、炮弹及武装直升机的打击下生活多年，如何在他们口中的“美国战争”中解决生活中的各个问题；战争如何将最普通的事情——从井中打水、上厕所、在田间劳作，以及为嗷嗷待哺的家庭收菜——变成生死攸关的决定；以及生活在美国无比漠视生命的冷酷政策下是个什么样子。
Westmoreland was largely successful in keeping much of the evidence of atrocities from the American public while serving as Army Chief of Staff. A task force, known as the Vietnam War Crimes Working Group, operating out of his Pentagon office, secretly assembled many thousands of pages of investigative files about American atrocities, which I discovered in the National Archives.
威斯特摩兰担任陆军参谋长期间，基本上成功地向美国公众隐瞒了暴行的证据。越南战争罪行工作小组(Vietnam War Crimes Working Group)在他位于五角大楼的办公室开展工作，该工作组秘密收集了数千页有关美国暴行的调查文件，我在美国国家档案馆(National Archives)发现了这些文件。
Despite revelations about the massacre at My Lai, the United States government was able to suppress the true scale of noncombatant casualties and to imply that those deaths that did occur were inadvertent and unavoidable. This left the American public with a counterfeit history of the conflict.
尽管美莱村屠杀惨案已被曝光，但美国政府隐瞒了非战斗人员伤亡的真实规模，并暗示，这些人的死亡是无意造成的，而且是不可避免的。因此，美国公众了解的有关越战的历史属于伪造的历史。
Without a true account of our past military misdeeds, Americans have been unprepared to fully understand what has happened in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen and elsewhere, where attacks on suspected terrorists have killed unknown numbers of innocent people. As in Vietnam, officials have effectively prevented the public from assessing this civilian toll.
由于没有获得对我们过去的军事罪行的真实描述，美国人无法完全理解发生在阿富汗、巴基斯坦、也门及其他地方的事情——针对恐怖嫌疑犯的袭击致使无辜民众死亡，而死亡人数是一个未知数。就像在越南一样，官员们有效地阻止了公众对平民死亡人数的估算。
We need to abandon our double standards when it comes to human life. It is worth noting the atrocious toll born of an enemy general’s decisions. But, at the very least, equal time ought to be given to the tremendous toll borne by civilians as a result of America’s wars, past and present.
涉及人命的时候，我们需要摒弃双重标准。当敌军将领的决定造成了惨重的伤亡，我们应该公之于众。但我们至少要花同样多的时间，去研究过去及现在的美国的战争所造成的大量平民伤亡。