MIRA LOMA, Calif. — Week after week, Guadalupe Rangel worked seven days straight, sometimes 11 hours a day, unloading dining room sets, trampolines, television stands and other imports from Asia that would soon be shipped to Walmart stores.
加利福尼亚米拉洛马——接连几周，瓜达卢佩·兰赫尔(Guadalupe Rangel)都要连续工作七天，有时一天要工作11个小时，把即将送往沃尔玛商店的饭厅套装家具、蹦床、电视柜以及其他从亚洲进口的货物卸下车。
Even though he often clocked 70 hours a week at the Schneider warehouse here, he was never paid time-and-a-half overtime, he said. And now, having joined a lawsuit involving hundreds of warehouse workers, Mr. Rangel stands to receive more than $20,000 in back pay as part of a recent $21 million legal settlement with Schneider, a national trucking company.
虽然他每周经常在这里的施奈德仓库工作70个小时，但是他说，自己从未拿到过1.5倍的加班工资。现在，兰赫尔参与了一起与数百名仓库工人相关的诉讼案，他将获得逾2万美元（约合12.3万元人民币）的欠付工资——这是全国运输公司施奈德最近价值2100万美元的诉讼和解的部分内容。
“Sometimes I’d work 60, even 90 days in a row,” said Mr. Rangel, a soft-spoken immigrant from Mexico. “They never paid overtime.”
“有时我会连续工作60甚至90天，”兰赫尔说。他是来自墨西哥的移民，说话温和。“他们从不支付加班工资。”
The lawsuit is part of a flood of recent cases — brought in California and across the nation — that accuse employers of violating minimum wage and overtime laws, erasing work hours and wrongfully taking employees’ tips. Worker advocates call these practices “wage theft,” insisting it has become far too prevalent.
最近出现了多个类似案件，本案是其中之一——加州和美国其他地方都有人提起诉讼。这些诉讼案指责雇主违反了最低工资规定和加班法规，抹除了工人的劳动时长并非法占有员工小费。工人权利倡导者把此类做法称为“工资盗窃”，并坚称这种现象已经变得非常普遍。
Some federal and state officials agree. They assert that more companies are violating wage laws than ever before, pointing to the record number of enforcement actions they have pursued. They complain that more employers — perhaps motivated by fierce competition or a desire for higher profits — are flouting wage laws.
联邦和各州一些官员也表示同意。他们断言，目前违反工资法的公司比以往任何时候都多，因为他们的执法行动次数创下了历史记录。他们抱怨道，越来越多的雇主正在违反工资法，它们或许是受到激烈竞争或争取更高利润的欲望的驱使。
Many business groups counter that government officials have drummed up a flurry of wage enforcement actions, largely to score points with union allies. If anything, employers have become more scrupulous in complying with wage laws, the groups say, in response to the much publicized lawsuits about so-called off-the-clock work that were filed against Walmart and other large companies a decade ago.
许多企业集团反对称，政府官员之所以大力宣传一系列与工资相关的执法行动，很大程度上是为了讨好工会联盟。这些组织称，非要说如今跟以前有什么区别的话，倒是雇主们在遵守工资法方面比以往更加小心谨慎，因为10年前，针对沃尔玛和其他大企业的所谓的超时工作诉讼案曾闹得沸沸扬扬，使雇主们做出相应的改变。
Here in California, a federal appeals court ruled last week that FedEx had in effect committed wage theft by insisting that its drivers were independent contractors rather than employees. FedEx orders many drivers to work 10 hours a day, but does not pay them overtime, which is required only for employees. FedEx said it planned to appeal.
在加州，一个联邦上诉法院上周判定，联邦快递(FedEx)其实存在工资盗窃行为，它坚称司机是独立的承包商雇员，而非正式员工。联邦快递命令许多司机每天工作10个小时，却不给他们支付超时工资——只有正式员工能享受这项待遇。联邦快递表示将提起上诉。
Julie Su, the state labor commissioner, recently ordered a janitorial company in Fremont to pay $332,675 in back pay and penalties to 41 workers who cleaned 17 supermarkets. She found that the company forced employees to sign blank time sheets, which it then used to record inaccurate, minimal hours of work.
州劳工标准执法处长(Labor Commissioner)苏维思(Julie Su)最近向弗里蒙特的一家清洁公司下达命令，要其为打扫了17个超市的41名工作人员支付33.2675万美元的欠付工资和罚款。她发现，公司曾强迫员工签署空白的工作时间记录表，然后再用它记录错误的、最低的工作时长。
David Weil, the director of the federal Labor Department’s wage and hour division, says wage theft is surging because of underlying changes in the nation’s business structure. The increased use of franchise operators, subcontractors and temp agencies leads to more employers being squeezed on costs and more cutting corners, he said. A result, he added, is that the companies on top can deny any knowledge of wage violations.
联邦劳工部(Labor Department)工资与工时处负责人戴维·韦尔(David Weil)说，因为美国的企业结构正在发生变化，所以工资盗窃现象也在暴增。他说，由于经销商、次级承包商和短期工中介公司的使用增加，所以越来越多的雇主开始想方设法节省开支。他还说，处于最顶层的公司因此就可以否认公司知晓工资违规的事情。
“We have a change in the structure of work that is then compounded by a falling level of what is viewed as acceptable in the workplace in terms of how you treat people and how you regard the law,” Mr. Weil said.
“我们的工作结构发生了变化，之后有条底线就一直在下降，这条底线是：职场中，被认为是可以接受的待人方式，以及对待法律的方式，”韦尔说。
His agency has uncovered nearly $1 billion in illegally unpaid wages since 2010. He noted that the victimized workers were disproportionately immigrants.
自2010年以来，他所在机构发现的的非法拖欠工资数目，已经将近10亿美元。他指出，在受害工人中，移民的比例格外高。
Guadalupe Salazar, a cashier at a McDonald’s in Oakland, complained that her paychecks repeatedly missed a few hours of work time and overtime pay. Frustrated about this, she has joined one of seven lawsuits against McDonald’s and several of its franchise operators, asserting that workers were cheated out of overtime, had hours erased from timecards and had to work off the clock.
瓜达卢佩·萨拉查(Guadalupe Salazar)在奥克兰麦当劳当收银员，她抱怨说，自己的工资总是少算几个小时的工作时间和加班时间。由于不满这种状况，她已经参与了七宗针对麦当劳及其几家特许经营商的诉讼案，声称工人被骗去加班，结果考勤卡上被抹去了加班时数，只好无偿加班。
“Basically every time that I worked overtime, it didn’t show up in my paycheck,” Ms. Salazar said. “This is time that I would rather be with my family, and they just take it away.”
“基本上我的每次加班，都没有在工资条上显示出来，”萨拉查说。“这些时间我宁愿和家人共度，结果却被他们白白占据。”
Business advocates see a hidden agenda in these lawsuits. For example, the lawsuit against Schneider — which owns a gigantic warehouse here that serves Walmart exclusively — coincides with unions pressuring Walmart to raise wages. The lawyers and labor groups behind the lawsuit have sought to hold Walmart jointly liable in the case.
商业权益倡导者觉得，这些法律诉讼案中暗藏了心机。例如施奈德公司案子——它有一个巨型仓库，为沃尔玛提供独家服务——恰巧和工会向沃尔玛施压，要求提高工资的事情同时发生。这起诉讼背后的律师和劳工团体，都要求沃尔玛在该案中承担连带责任。
Walmart says that it seeks to ensure that its contractors comply with all laws, and that it was not responsible for Schneider’s employment practices. Schneider said it “manages its operations with integrity,” noting that it had hired various subcontractors to oversee the loading and unloading crews.
沃尔玛说，自己在确保承包商遵守所有法律上做出了努力，对施奈德的用工行为没有责任。施奈德表示自己“在经营业务时讲求诚信”，还指出它之前就聘请了不同的分包商来负责监督装卸员工。
Business groups note that the lawsuits against McDonald’s have been coordinated with the fast-food workers’ movement demanding a $15 wage. “This is a classic special-interest campaign by labor unions,” said Stephen J. Caldeira, president of the International Franchise Association. In legal papers, McDonald’s denied any liability in Ms. Salazar’s case, and the Oakland franchisee insisted that Ms. Salazar had failed to establish illegal actions by the restaurant.
商业团体指出，针对麦当劳的诉讼，和快餐工人们运动要求获得15美元时薪的活动，两者是配合进行的。“这是一个工会发起的、典型的利益团体活动，”国际特许经营协会(International Franchise Association)主席斯蒂芬·J·卡尔代拉(Stephen J. Caldeira)说。在法律文件上，麦当劳拒绝对萨拉查案件中的情况承担任何责任，这家奥克兰加盟商坚称，萨拉查称该餐厅存在非法行为的说法不成立。
Lee Schreter, co-chairwoman of the wage and hour practice group at Littler Mendelson, a law firm that represents employers, said wage theft was not increasing, adding that many companies had become more vigilant about compliance. But that has not stopped lawyers from bringing wage theft complaints because of the potential payoff, Ms. Schreter said. “These are opportunistic lawsuits,” she said.
李·施雷特(Lee Schreter)是门德尔松律师事务所(Littler Mendelson)工资和工时规范团体联合董事长，代表雇主一方，她说工资盗窃行为并没有增长，还说很多公司已经在合规方面提高了警觉。但是，律师们还是会把工资盗窃投诉闹上法庭，因为他们可以从中渔利，施雷特说。“这些诉讼是在投机取巧。”