Where does our food come from? Often the answer is Tyson Foods, America’s meat factory.
我们的食品来自哪里？这个问题的答案常常是泰森食品(Tyson Foods)——美国的肉类加工厂。
Tyson, one of the nation’s 100 biggest companies, slaughters 135,000 head of cattle a week, along with 391,000 hogs and an astonishing 41 million chickens. Nearly all Americans regularly eat Tyson meat — at home, at McDonalds, at a cafeteria, at a nursing home.
泰森食品是美国100强企业之一，一周可宰杀13.5万头牛、39.1万头猪，以及4100万只鸡——数字让人震惊。几乎所有美国人都经常吃泰森食品生产的肉类——无论是在家、麦当劳、食堂，还是养老院。
“Even if Tyson did not produce a given piece of meat, the consumer is really only picking between different versions of the same commoditized beef, chicken, and pork that is produced through a system Tyson pioneered,” says Christopher Leonard, a longtime agribusiness journalist, in his new book about Tyson called “The Meat Racket.”
“即使某块肉不是泰森公司生产的，消费者的选择实际上只不过是经过同样流程包装成商品的牛肉、鸡肉和猪肉而已。它们都是通过泰森开创的系统生产出来的，”报道工业化农业生产的资深记者克里斯托弗·莱昂纳德(Christopher Leonard)在他的新书《肉制品勾当》(The Meat Racket)中写道。这本书是关于泰森食品公司的。
Leonard’s book argues that a handful of companies, led by Tyson, control our meat industry in ways that raise concerns about the impact on animals and humans alike, while tearing at the fabric of rural America. Many chicken farmers don’t even own the chickens they raise or know what’s in the feed. They just raise the poultry on contract for Tyson, and many struggle to make a living.
莱昂纳德在书中说，以泰森食品为首的几家公司控制着我们的肉制品行业，它们的种种做法对动物和人类的影响引发了担忧，破坏了美国乡村原本的结构。许多养鸡的农户并不拥有他们所喂养的鸡，也不知道饲料里有什么。他们只是按照与泰森的合同来饲养这种家禽，许多农民难以维持生计。
Concerned by the meat oligopoly’s dominance of rural America, President Obama undertook a push beginning in 2010 to strengthen antitrust oversight of the meat industry and make it easier for farmers to sue meatpackers. The aim was grand: to create a “new rural economy” to empower individual farmers.
由于担心由多家大企业垄断的肉制品产业主导了美国的乡村，奥巴马总统推出了一项始于2010年的行动，目的是加强对肉制品行业的反垄断监管，让农民起诉肉类加工企业的过程更容易。其目标很宏大：创造“全新的乡村经济”，造福每一个农民。
Big Meat’s lobbyists used its friends in Congress to crush the Obama administration’s regulatory effort, which collapsed in “spectacular failure,” Leonard writes.
莱昂纳德写道，泰森食品的游说者利用其在国会的友人，破坏了奥巴马政府的监管努力，奥巴马的行动遭遇了“惨不忍睹的失败”。
Factory farming has plenty of devastating consequences, but it’s only fair to acknowledge that it has benefited our pocketbooks. When President Herbert Hoover dreamed of putting “a chicken in every pot,” chicken was a luxury dish more expensive than beef. In 1930, whole dressed chicken retailed for $6.48 a pound in today’s currency, according to the National Chicken Council. By last year, partly because of Tyson, chicken retailed for an average price of $1.57 per pound — much less than beef.
工业化农场带来了大量灾难性的后果，但必须承认，它替我们省了钱。当赫伯特·胡佛(Herbert Hoover)总统梦想着让“每口锅里都有一只鸡”的时候，鸡肉还是一种奢侈的食物，价格比牛肉贵。根据全美养鸡理事会(National Chicken Council)的数据，按照今天的币值计算，1930年，一磅（0.45千克）宰杀干净的鸡肉价格为6.48美元（约合39.7元人民币）。去年，鸡肉的零售价为每磅1.57美元，比牛肉便宜多了，这跟泰森食品有一定关系。
Costs came down partly because scientific breeding reduced the length of time needed to raise a chicken to slaughter by more than half since 1925, even as a chicken’s weight doubled. The amount of feed required to produce a pound of chicken has also dropped sharply.
鸡肉价格下降的一个原因是，科学的饲养方法缩短了把鸡饲养到可以宰杀所需要的时间。从1925年以来，生长期缩短了超过一半，与此同时，每只鸡的体重增加了一倍。生产一磅鸡肉所需的饲料总量也大大减少。
And yet.
但是：
This industrial agriculture system also has imposed enormous costs of three kinds.
这种工业化的农业体系还在三个方面产生了巨大代价。
First, it has been a catastrophe for animals. Chickens are bred to grow huge breasts so that as adults they topple forward and can barely breathe or stand.
首先，它是动物们的灾难。目前的饲养方式让鸡长出了巨大的胸脯，到成年时它们就会常常向前摔倒，难以呼吸或站立。
“These birds are essentially bred to suffer,” says Laurie Beacham of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which argues that there’s an inherent cruelty in raising these “exploding chickens.”
“这些家禽活着实际上就是受罪，”美国爱护动物协会(American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals)的劳丽·比彻姆(Laurie Beacham)说。该机构称，把鸡养得“膨胀到爆炸”本质上是极其残忍的。
Poultry Science journal has calculated that if humans grew at the same rate as modern chickens, a human by the age of two months would weigh 660 pounds.
根据《禽类科学》(Poultry Science)杂志统计，如果人类的生长速度和现在的鸡一样快，两个月大的婴儿体重就会达到660磅。
Second, factory farming endangers our health. Robert Martin of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health notes that a farm with 10,000 hogs produces as much fecal waste as a small city with 40,000 people, but the hog operation won’t have a waste treatment plant. Indeed, the hogs in a single county in North Carolina produce half as much waste as all the people in New York City, Martin says.
第二，工业化农业危害我们的健康。约翰·霍普金斯大学布隆博格公共卫生学院(Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health)的罗伯特·马丁(Robert Martin)指出，一个1万头猪的农场制造出的粪便，相当于一个4万人口的小城市，但养猪业可没有废物处理工厂。马丁说，的确，北卡罗莱纳州一个县的猪制造的废物，相当于纽约市全部人口生产废物的一半。
Another health concern is that antibiotics are routinely fed to animals and birds to help them grow quickly in crowded, dirty conditions. This can lead to antibiotic resistant infections, which strike two million Americans annually (overuse of antibiotics on human patients is also a factor, but four-fifths of antibiotics in America go to farm animals).
另一个健康隐患是，为了让家畜和家禽在拥挤肮脏的环境中迅速成长，它们的饲料中常常加入了抗生素。这可能会造成具有抗生素耐药性的感染，每年有两百万美国人因此患病（对病人使用过量抗生素也是一个原因，但美国五分之四的抗生素用在了农场饲养的动物身上）。
Third, this industrial model has led to a hollowing out of rural America. The heartland is left with a few tycoons and a large number of people struggling at the margins.
第三，这种工业化的模式导致了美国乡村的空心化。乡村的中心地区只剩下几家大公司和无数在边缘挣扎的人们。
Leonard writes in his book that in 68 percent of the counties where Tyson operates, per capita income has grown more slowly over the last four decades than the average in that state. We may think of rural America as a halcyon pastoral of red barns and the Waltons, but today it’s also a land of unemployment, poverty, despair and methamphetamines.
莱昂纳德在书中写道，过去40年里，在泰森公司运营的县里，有68%的县人均收入增速低于该州的平均水平。我们或许会以为美国的乡村到处是红色谷仓，一派美好的田园景象，如同《华生一家》(The Waltons)中的场景，但如今，它也是一块失业、贫穷、绝望和毒品肆虐的土地。
It’s easy to criticize the current model of industrial agriculture, far harder to outline a viable alternative. Going back to the rural structure represented by the inefficient family farm on which I grew up in Oregon isn’t a solution; then we’d be back to $6.48-a-pound chicken.
批评当前的工业化农业的模式很容易，提出一个可行的替代性方案则要难得多。我成长于俄勒冈州低效的家庭农场，但回到那种农场所代表的农村结构并不是解决办法。那样的话，我们会回到一磅鸡肉价格6.48美元的时代。
But a starting point is to recognize bluntly that our industrial food system is unhealthy. It privatizes gains but socializes the health and environmental costs. It rewards shareholders — Tyson’s stock price has quadrupled since early 2009 — but can be ghastly for the animals and humans it touches. Industrial meat has an acrid aftertaste.
但是，首先需要深刻地认识到，我们工业化的食品体系是不健康的。这种体系让一些人获得了收益，但它造成的健康和环境成本则要全社会承担。它让股东获得了回报——泰森食品的股价自2009年初以来提高了三倍。但与泰森有关的人和动物，往往处境悲惨。工业化生产的肉类有一种苦涩的余味。