TBILISI, Georgia — The United States launched a new series of airstrikes against Sunni fighters in Iraq late Saturday in what Defense Department officials described as a mission to stop militants from seizing an important dam on the Euphrates River and prevent the possibility of floodwaters being unleashed toward the capital, Baghdad.
格鲁吉亚第比利斯——周六深夜，美国对伊拉克境内的逊尼派武装分子发起了新一轮空袭。国防部官员称，执行这项任务是为了阻止武装分子占领幼发拉底河上一处重要的大坝，并避免倾泻而出的洪水冲向伊拉克首都巴格达的可能性。
The attacks were aimed at militant fighters of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria as they were moving toward the Haditha Dam, officials said. The operation represented another expansion of the limited goals that President Obama set out when he announced last month that he had authorized airstrikes in Iraq.
官员称，本轮袭击的目标是正在往哈迪塞水坝方向进发的伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria， 简称ISIS）武装分子。奥巴马总统上月宣布已授权在伊拉克进行空袭，而此次行动代表着他当时阐述的有限目标再次扩大。
Administration officials nonetheless stressed that the strikes around the Haditha Dam — about 175 miles from Baghdad, in Anbar Province — were within the constraints of what Mr. Obama initially characterized as a limited campaign to break the ISIS siege of the minority Yazidi population stranded on Mount Sinjar, as well as to protect American citizens, official personnel and facilities in Erbil, the Kurdish capital, and Baghdad.
然而，奥巴马政府的官员强调，发生在哈迪塞水坝——位于安巴尔省，距巴格达约175英里（约合280公里）——附近的空袭符合奥巴马最初描述的有限行动的范畴。这些有限行动旨在打破ISIS对被困在辛贾尔山的少数族群雅兹迪人的包围，并保护身在库尔德地区首府埃尔比勒及巴格达的美国公民、公职人员和设施。
“I think the strikes the United States took are very much in line with what President Obama said were the guiding principles of military action in Iraq,” Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said during a news conference while in Tbilisi, Georgia, for talks. Mr. Hagel said that if ISIS fighters seized or destroyed the dam, “the damage that would cause would be very significant and it would put a significant, additional and big risk into the mix in Iraq.”
“我认为美国进行的袭击，非常符合奥巴马总统所说的在伊军事行动的指导原则，”国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)在新闻发布会上说。举行发布会时，哈格尔正在格鲁吉亚的第比利斯参加会谈。哈格尔表示，假如ISIS的武装分子占领或摧毁了哈迪塞大坝，“造成的危害会非常大，会给伊拉克的混乱局面带来额外的重大风险”。
In a statement, Rear Adm. John Kirby, the Pentagon press secretary, said, “We conducted these strikes to prevent terrorists from further threatening the security of the dam.” The strikes, Admiral Kirby said, “were conducted under authority to protect U.S. personnel and facilities, support humanitarian efforts, and support Iraqi forces that are acting in furtherance of these objectives.” Across the quickly vanishing border between Syria and Iraq, the Syrian government also has increased airstrikes on ISIS in recent months after it took over government military outposts in the northeastern province of Raqqa in a series of newly assertive attacks. Raids by Syrian warplanes in Raqqa on Saturday killed at least 25 people, most of them civilians crowding into a bakery, as government forces continued air attacks on territory controlled by ISIS.
五角大楼新闻发言人约翰·柯比海军少将(Rear Adm. John Kirby)在声明中表示，“我们进行这些空袭是为了防止恐怖分子进一步威胁大坝的安全。”柯比还说，这轮空袭“是按照授权进行的，旨在保护美国的人员和设施、支持人道主义行动，并且支持正在为促进这些目标而行动的伊拉克部队”。最近几个月，在迅速消失的叙伊边境线的另一边，叙利亚政府也加强了对ISIS的空袭，因为ISIS在该国东北部的拉卡省发起了一系列咄咄逼人的新攻势，占领了政府军的多座军事哨所。上周六，随着叙利亚政府军继续对ISIS控制的地区进行空袭，政府军战机在拉卡导致至少25人死亡，大部分是挤进一家糕点店的平民。
In Iraq, soldiers and officers in the area around the Haditha Dam said that United States warplanes carried out airstrikes on several towns beginning around 11 p.m. on Saturday, striking what were described as ISIS positions in the towns of Rawa and Ana, as well as in Barwana, which is about nine miles from the dam.
在伊拉克，哈迪塞水坝周边地区的士兵和军官表示，美军战机在周六夜间11点左右开始对几座城镇发起空袭。打击目标据称是拉瓦、阿纳以及距离水坝约9英里的巴瓦纳镇的ISIS据点。
The strikes on Rawa and Ana, two towns near a highway leading into Syria, could disrupt ISIS supply lines in Iraq. Soldiers fighting in Barwana said that the American airstrikes continued on Sunday morning, striking what they described as houses where ISIS fighters were gathering. At the same time, Iraqi military forces, including Special Forces units, were attacking the town from two sides with artillery and mortar fire, Iraqi officers said.
拉瓦和阿纳附近的一条公路通往叙利亚，针对它们的空袭可以破坏ISIS在伊拉克的补给线。在巴瓦纳作战的士兵称，美国的空袭周日上午仍在继续，打击目标据称是ISIS武装分子聚集的房屋。伊拉克官员称，与此同时，包括特种部队在内的伊拉克军队用大炮和迫击炮对该镇两面夹击。
Mr. Hagel said that the United States was working closely with Iraqi military units on the Haditha Dam operation. “The Iraqi government asked for those strikes, and it was Iraqi security forces” who carried out the ground portion of the assault, he said.
哈格尔表示，在哈迪塞水坝的行动中，美国与伊拉克军队开展了密切合作。他说，“这些空袭是伊拉克政府所要求的，而且伊拉克安全部队”执行了地面进攻任务。
The American airstrikes on the Haditha Dam were not the first time the United States has expanded on the initial description of the military mission in Iraq. The American military has carried out airstrikes that allowed Iraqi and Kurdish forces to reclaim the Mosul Dam, which had fallen into ISIS hands, and has struck Sunni militants who had been besieging the Turkmen city of Amerli.
美军对哈迪塞水坝发动空袭，并不是它首次扩大最初描述的在伊军事任务的范围。美国的空袭使得伊拉克政府军和库尔德军队重新收回一度落入ISIS手中的摩苏尔坝，而且还重创了此前一直在围攻土库曼人聚集地阿莫利镇的逊尼派武装分子。
A significant rupture of the Haditha Dam, officials have said, could send floodwaters through a large number of Iraqi communities and toward the capital, perhaps putting at risk the Baghdad airport, which could threaten Americans in the country. That rationale is similar to the one used when American warplanes bombed the Sunni militants who had taken control of the Mosul Dam.
官员称，倘若哈迪塞水坝遭到严重破坏，洪水就可能会冲向大片伊拉克社区，并向巴格达奔去，获许会使巴格达机场陷入危险，从而威胁到伊拉克境内的美国人。这套逻辑与美军战机轰炸控制摩苏尔坝的逊尼派武装分子时的道理相似。
It remained unknown whether ISIS, which has pledged to create an Islamic state over parts of Iraq and Syria, would actually breach the dam or instead would attempt to capture the site to guarantee control over electricity to areas it now holds. But citing the mission of protecting American citizens and facilities gives the White House wide latitude to support Iraqi security forces and Kurdish militias in a sustained campaign against ISIS across the country.
之前并不清楚，誓称要在伊拉克和叙利亚的大片地区创建一个伊斯兰主义国家的ISIS是否真的会破坏水坝，还是会试图占领这个地方，以保证它目前控制的区域的电力供应。但是，援引保护美国公民和设施的使命，给了白宫广泛的行动自由，使之能够在伊拉克各地抗击ISIS的持续行动中为伊拉克安全部队和库尔德民兵组织提供支持。