WASHINGTON — An upgraded American interceptor rocket collided with a mock intercontinental ballistic missile Tuesday afternoon in the skies over the Pacific Ocean, the Pentagon said, marking the first successful test of whether the Defense Department could shoot down a warhead from North Korea heading toward the continental United States at speeds approaching true battle conditions.
华盛顿——五角大楼表示，周二下午，美军一枚升级后的拦截火箭在太平洋上空击中了一枚模拟洲际弹道导弹，这是国防部测试是否能击落朝鲜以接近实战的速度向美国本土发射的弹头首次获得成功。
At a time when tensions with North Korea are running high, the successful test gave the Defense Department’s beleaguered missile defense program a victory — the ability to say that it is making strides in protecting the United States from a nuclear warhead that could be launched from a mountainside in North Korea. With the test Tuesday, five of the last 10 tests have at least partly succeeded.
目前美国与朝鲜之间的局势越发紧张，本次测试成功是国防部备受诟病的导弹防御计划取得的一个胜利——现在国防部可以说，它在保护美国免遭朝鲜从某个山坡上发射的核弹头击中方面又前进了一步。算上周二这次，最近10次测试中有5次至少获得了部分成功。
The test “demonstrates that we have a capable, credible deterrent against a very real threat,” said Vice Adm. James D. Syring, the director of the Pentagon’s Missile Defense Agency, calling the test a “critical milestone for this program.”
五角大楼导弹防御局(Missile Defense Agency)局长、海军中将詹姆士·D·叙林(James D. Syring)说：“这次测试表明，对于一个非常现实的威胁，我们拥有了可行可信的威慑力量。”他称这个测试是“该计划的一个重大里程碑”。
But while Defense Department officials said initial indications showed that the test met its primary objective by hitting the target, they provided no details. The department will continue to evaluate other data to determine how the system performed overall. The test Tuesday was against a single missile, but the North Koreans have begun to practice shooting multiple missiles at a time in an effort to confuse U.S. defenses.
但是国防部官员说，初步迹象表明，这次测试击中目标，达到了它的主要目的，他们没有提供任何细节。该部门将继续评估其他数据，以确定该拦截系统的整体性能。周二的测试针对的是单一导弹，但朝鲜已经开始尝试发射多枚导弹，以突破美国的防御。
The interceptor missile lifted off from the California coast on Tuesday afternoon, and minutes later it smashed into a mock warhead that had launched from Kwajalein Atoll in the Marshall Islands.
拦截导弹是周二下午在加利福尼亚海岸发射的，几分钟后，它捣毁了一枚从马绍尔群岛夸贾林环礁发射的模拟弹头。
Past efforts to test the country’s multibillion-dollar efforts at missile defense have had mixed results. A Pentagon report in January examining weapons testing criticized the long-range system, saying that it “demonstrates a limited capability to defend the U.S. homeland from small numbers” of medium- and long-range missile tests “launched from North Korea or Iran.”
在之前的测试中，这个美国耗资数十亿美元的导弹防御系统表现有好有坏。在今年1月的一份检讨武器测试的报告中，五角大楼批评这一远距离系统说，它“在捍卫美国国土免遭朝鲜或者伊朗发射的数量不多的”中程和远程导弹试验方面，“显示出的能力有限”。
Scientists argue that only when the system is tested in a range of conditions — like at night, or when an adversary is using countermeasures — would the Defense Department be able to say that the system works in a real-world setting.
科学家认为，只有在各种条件下进行测试后——例如在晚上，或当对手使用反制措施时——国防部才能说它在现实环境中有效果。