The United Arab Emirates warned its citizens on Sunday to avoid wearing traditional clothing when traveling abroad, apparently in response to an episode in Ohio last week in which a businessman from Abu Dhabi, dressed in robes and a headscarf, was confronted by police at gunpoint because a hotel clerk thought he might be a terrorist.
周日，阿拉伯联合酋长国告诫其国民，在出国时需避免穿传统服装，这似乎是在对上周发生在俄亥俄州的事件做出回应。当时，酒店职员觉得一个穿长袍、戴头巾的阿布扎比商人可能是恐怖分子，结果警察把枪口对准了他。
The businessman was identified as Ahmed al-Menhali, 41, by the Cleveland chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations. Relatives of a front desk clerk at the Fairfield Inn and Suites in Avon, Ohio, called 911 on June 29 to report that the clerk was panicked after seeing a man in robes and “full headdress” in the hotel lobby, speaking on a phone and “pledging his allegiance or something to ISIS.”
美国伊斯兰关系理事会(Council on American-Islamic Relations)克利夫兰分会表示，这名商人是41岁的艾哈迈德·默哈里(Ahmed al-Menhali)。6月29日，俄亥俄州埃文费尔菲尔德酒店(Fairfield Inn and Suites)一名前台接待员的亲戚打了911报警电话，称该接待员惊慌失措，因为看到一个穿着长袍和“全套头饰”的男子在酒店大堂在打手机，“好像是宣誓效忠伊斯兰国(ISIS)”。
Officers confronted al-Menhali outside the hotel with guns drawn, pinned him to the ground, handcuffed him, searched his clothes and wallet and had him take off his shoes to check his feet. Police body-camera video of the encounter shows al-Menhali, who appeared to speak limited English, saying “What is this?”, “I’m tourist” and “Not good” while he was on the ground.
在酒店外，警员拔枪指着默哈里，把他压在地上，然后给他戴上手铐，搜查了他的衣服和钱包，并让他把鞋子脱掉，要检查他的脚。警察携带的摄像头录制的视频显示，默哈里似乎英语不太好，被压地上时，他说，“怎么了？”“我是游客”和“不好”。
The Avon Police Department released audio and video of the episode to the media, and the recordings were uploaded to YouTube.
埃文警察署向媒体提供了音频和视频，并上传到了YouTube上。
About 10 minutes into the encounter, as the likelihood of any arrest appeared to dissipate and al-Menhali was allowed to stand up, he collapsed on the pavement. He was taken by ambulance to St. John’s Medical Center, police said; local news reports said he had been treated for minor injuries and released.
大约十分钟后，警方逐渐排除了逮捕的必要，默哈里被允许站起来，但他瘫倒在了人行道上。警察说他随即被救护车送到圣约翰医疗中心(St. John’s Medical Center)；当地新闻报导称，他受了轻伤，已经获得了治疗，并已出院。
The warning from the Emirates government coincides with heightened security alerts in cities around the world after deadly terrorist attacks in Iraq, Bangladesh and Turkey, raising new fears about the global reach of terrorism.
阿联酋政府发布警告之际，伊拉克、孟加拉国和土耳其正发生致命恐怖袭击，引发人们对全球性恐怖主义的新一波担忧，全球各地的城市在提高安全警惕性。
The Ohio episode, however, raised questions about the intense police response to a report of a man in Middle Eastern dress standing in a hotel lobby, speaking on a telephone.
但俄亥俄州事件是有人报警称一个人穿着中东服饰，站在酒店大堂里打电话，警方的激烈反应引起了一些质疑。
Julia A. Shearson, executive director of the Cleveland chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations, criticized the way the police referred to al-Menhali’s clothing in their report, according to The Independent.
朱莉娅·A·希尔森(Julia A. Shearson)是美国伊斯兰关系理事会克利夫兰分会会长，她批评警方在报告中提及哈默里服饰的做法。
In an interview Sunday, she said: “It is shocking this happened. The bottom line is we understand the American people are on edge, and there’s definitely violence in the world, but we’ve come to this brute level of giving in to our fears.”
在周日接受采访时，她说：“这件事的发生令人震惊。当然我们知道美国人现在神经紧绷，而世界上也确实有暴力存在，但我们草木皆兵的反应已经达到了野蛮的程度。”
She added, “We can defeat violence and terrorism if we get to the root cause of it, instead of victimizing 1.5 billion people around the world.”
她说，“如果我们直接针对事情根源，就可以战胜暴力和恐怖主义，而不是让世界各地的15亿人成为受害者。”
Avon officials apologized to al-Menhali on Saturday night at the council’s Cleveland office. The mayor, Bryan K. Jensen, told al-Menhali, “There were some false accusations made against you, and those are regrettable.” The chief of the Avon police, Richard Bosley, said, “You should not have been put in that situation like you were.”
上周六晚，埃文官员在美国伊斯兰关系理事会克利夫兰办公室向默哈里道歉。市长布莱恩·K·延森(Bryan K. Jensen)告诉默哈里，“出现了一些针对你的不实指控，我们深感遗憾。”埃文警方负责人理查德·博斯利(Richard Bosley)说，“你不应当被置于这种境地。”