HONG KONG — The Third Plenum, a twice-a-decade meeting where China’s leaders set economic policy, ended Nov. 12 with a consensus that the country should shift away from a growth strategy focused on producing exports for the United States and other wealthy countries to one that draws increasing support from its 1.3 billion consumers.
香港——在五年一度的三中全会上，中国领导人会制定经济政策。今年的三中全会已在11月12日闭幕，会上取得的共识是，中国必须脱离那种专注于向美国和其他富裕国家制造出口产品的增长战略，而是转向一种从13亿消费者身上寻求更大支撑的路径。
But these reforms have been urged for nearly seven years, and the previous generation of Chinese leaders didn’t carry them out. What’s different this time?
但在过去将近七年的时间里，人们一直敦促政府实施这些改革，而上一届中国领导人并未展开行动。这次有什么不同呢？
There are two reasons to believe that the leadership’s latest promises are credible, and that the reforms will be momentous, maybe even historic.
有两个理由相信，当前领导层最近作出的承诺是可信的，他们实行的改革将是重大的，乃至历史性的。
First, President Xi Jinping, who took office a year ago, operates from a very solid power base, with unquestioned command over the party, the state and the Chinese military. In contrast, his predecessors Jiang Zemin, the president from 1993 to 2002, and Hu Jintao, the president from 2002 to 2012, took years to consolidate their power.
首先，一年前上台的习近平主席有着牢固的权力基础，对党、政府和军队都拥有无可争议的控制权。与他不同，他的前任，1993年至2002年掌权的江泽民和2002年至2012年掌权的胡锦涛，都用了多年时间来巩固权力。
Second, the imperative for change is greater today in China than at any point since the tumultuous period following the Cultural Revolution. Just as Deng Xiaoping seized on those precarious circumstances in the late 1970s to enact a fact-based, nonideological platform of “reforms and opening up,” Mr. Xi must do the same to avoid faltering growth and avert social instability.
其次，自文化大革命后那些风云突变的年月以来，今天中国实行变革的迫切性要比任何时刻更强。就像邓小平在上世纪70年代末不确定的环境中，以事实而不是意识形态为基础推行了“改革开放”政策一样，习近平也必须采取相同的措施来避免增长下滑和社会动荡。
Power and urgency don’t guarantee success, but they suggest that China will bring a strong level of commitment to this daunting task.
权力稳固并且有迫切性，并不能保证会取得成功，但这两个因素能表明中国会有很大的决心，努力完成这个艰巨的任务。
The economic transformation spelled out in the various decision documents of the Third Plenum reveals a significant shift in China’s development strategy. Market-determined pricing — for necessities like fuel, food and pharmaceuticals; services; and eventually even the renminbi, China’s currency — is now emphasized over allowing the state to arbitrarily set these prices.
三中全会发布的几份决策文件中所阐述的经济转型，显示了中国发展战略的显著转变。现在，市场决定价格的机制得到了强调（包括燃油、食品、药品等必需品的价格；服务；还将最终包括人民币的汇率）而不是允许政府随意设置价格。
This new embrace of the market as the “decisive” factor in allocating resources and capital will help address many economic imbalances: overcapacity in manufacturing; the fixing of deposit interest rates on consumer savings accounts by the central bank, which has the effect of subsidizing banks and penalizing savers; and the excess liquidity that results from a tightly controlled currency.
这种让市场在资源配置中发挥“决定性”作用的新态度，能够解决很多经济失衡问题：如制造业产能过剩；消费者储蓄账户中的存款利率由央行确定，其结果是银行得到补贴，储户受到惩罚；由于汇率受到严格控制而导致的流动性过剩。
By limiting the rise of the renminbi to support exports, China is forced to inject excess liquidity into its domestic economy by issuing government bonds. That fuels property bubbles and makes housing unaffordable for many Chinese families. Letting the currency fluctuate freely in foreign exchange markets would help eliminate these distortions.
由于为了支持出口而限制人民币升值，中国不得不通过发行国债来向国内经济注入过量的流动性。这催生了房地产泡沫，使许多中国家庭无法承受住房的高昂价格。允许人民币汇率在外汇市场上自由波动，能够帮助消除这些市场扭曲的现象。
Perhaps the government’s greatest challenge is to change the behavior of Chinese families from fear-driven savers to more active consumers.
或许政府最大的挑战是把中国家庭的行为模式，从受恐惧驱使的储蓄者，转变成更为积极的消费者。
The Third Plenum addresses that fear by proposing a long overdue relaxing of the one-child policy. Also notable are a proposed elevation of farmer’s rights, a more equitable system of land rights and a revamping of the antiquated household residential system, known as hukou, that made it nearly impossible for nearly 200 million migrant workers to transfer social welfare benefits from their hometowns to their places of employment. The government also plans to set aside up to 30 percent of the profits of state-owned businesses to finance safety-net programs, including social security and health care.
三中全会解决这种恐惧的方式是放松计划生育政策，公众对此已经等待了很久。同样值得注意的是，会议提出要改善农民权利、建立更公平的土地产权体制、改革落后的户口制度。户口制度使近2亿名外来务工人员几乎不可能将社保福利从家乡转移到就业地。政府还计划将国有企业利润中高达30%的比例，用于为福利项目融资，包括社会保障和医疗保障。
The rest of the world should welcome this rebalancing from a producer model to a consumer society. But it could prove especially challenging for the United States. Over the past 20 years, China and America have been locked in an increasingly uncomfortable embrace. China supported America’s growth agenda by producing cheap goods and buying Treasuries, and American consumers helped China by their insatiable demand for cheap imported goods.
世界其他国家应当欢迎中国从生产者的增长模式，转变为消费型社会的再平衡过程。但这对美国而言可能是一个尤其重大的挑战。在过去20年里，中国和美国紧紧捆绑在了一起，而这种关系让双方都越来越感到不适。中国通过生产廉价的产品和购买美国国债来支撑美国的增长目标，而美国消费者则通过自己对廉价进口消费品的巨大需求来帮助中国。
As in relationships, codependence is not sustainable for economies. It can cause nations to lose confidence and could lead to frictions and, ultimately, economic conflict, like a trade war.
就像在恋爱关系中一样，挨得太紧对于经济体而言，也不是能够长久的状态。它可能会导致国家失去信心、产生摩擦，甚至最终引发贸易战。
The coming transition to a rebalanced China changes the rules of engagement in this co-dependent relationship. America seems unprepared for this possibility. Long dependent on China as the world’s ultimate producer, the United States may have a hard time waking up to the reality of a China that is less focused on enabling America’s excess consumption and more interested in spending money on social services rather than buying Treasuries and helping to keep United States interest rates down.
中国走向再平衡的转变即将到来，这种转变将会改变中美相互依存的关系中的交往规则。美国对这种可能性似乎并没有做好准备。由于长期依靠中国充当全球最大的制造国，美国发觉中国发生转变，不再关注于支撑美国的过度消费，而是更有兴趣把资金投入社会保障，不再购买美国国债，也不再帮助美国压低利率之时，可能会感到痛苦。
The United States needs to liberate itself from the mind-set that it cannot afford to change its economic strategy. It must shift the fixation on consumption for today’s generation to greater focus on saving and investing for future generations. The sluggish recovery and unacceptably high unemployment make this shift difficult, but not impossible.
美国需要摆脱那种无法承受经济战略转变的心态。美国必须转变对当前这代人消费的关注，更多地关注于为了子孙后代而储蓄和投资。考虑到当前迟缓的复苏和高到难以接受的失业水平，转变心态并不容易，但并不是不可能。
The restructuring suggested by China’s Third Plenum is an enormous opportunity for growth-starved economies like the United States’. The coming emergence of the Chinese consumer could be the greatest global growth bonanza of this century, benefiting American manufacturing and services enterprises alike. But that won’t happen unless American leaders have the vision and commitment to restore competitiveness through savings, innovation and investment. An asymmetrical rebalancing — Chinese restructuring and American stasis — is a recipe for failure.
中国的三中全会提出的结构调整，对亟需增长的经济体，如美国，是一个巨大的机遇。中国消费者即将到来的崛起，将是本世纪最为重要的经济机遇，美国制造业和服务业企业都会从中获益。然而美国领导人需要有远见，也要有决心，通过储蓄、创新、投资来恢复竞争力，否则就无法抓住这个机遇。非对称的再平衡——中国实现结构调整，而美国无动于衷——就会导致失败。
Thirty-five years ago, an earlier Third Plenum gave Deng Xiaoping an opportunity for China to unleash the most powerful economic development story of modern history. America needs its own Third Plenum moment.
在35年前举行的更早的一次三中全会上，邓小平抓住机遇让中国上演了现代历史上最恢弘的经济发展故事。美国也需要一个类似“三中全会”的时刻。