HONOLULU — The Obama administration on Tuesday sought to tighten economic pressure on Russia for its intervention in Ukraine, imposing sanctions on dozens of individuals and companies it said were circumventing American and international restrictions.
檀香山——周二，奥巴马政府试图针对俄罗斯干涉乌克兰事务对其施加更大的经济压力，对几十个它表示正在规避美国和国际限制的个人和企业实施了制裁。
Most of those targeted by the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control were associates or bank subsidiaries of people or companies that have already been sanctioned. Officials said the action should serve as a signal that the United States will continue to lean on Moscow to honor a peace agreement brokered early this year in Belarus and allow Ukraine to control its side of its border with Russia.
美国财政部海外资产控制办公室（Office of Foreign Assets Control，简称OFAC）锁定的这些制裁目标，大部分都是已经遭到制裁的个人或企业的合作者或银行分支机构。多名官员表示，这项行动应该被看作一个信号，显示美国将继续向莫斯科施压，要其履行今年在白俄罗斯达成的一项和平协议，允许乌克兰掌控在与俄罗斯交界处的本国领土。
“It is critical that Russia takes the steps necessary to comply with its obligations under the Minsk Agreements and to ensure a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Ukraine,” John E. Smith, the acting OFAC director, said in a statement.
“俄罗斯要采取必要措施履行它在明斯克协议中的义务，确保乌克兰冲突得到和平解决，这是至关重要的，”OFAC代理主任约翰·E·史密斯(John E. Smith)在一份声明中表示。
“By more closely matching our designations with those of our international partners and thwarting attempts to evade sanctions, we are once again demonstrating the United States’ unwavering resolve to pressure Russia to respect the security and sovereignty of Ukraine,” Mr. Smith added.
“通过及时将把我们的打击目标和国际盟友的相匹配，扼杀逃避制裁的企图，我们又一次在证明，美国有坚定的决心对俄罗斯施压，使其尊重乌克兰的国土安全和主权，”史密斯接着说道。
These are the first new United States measures on Russia since July 30, and they come just days after the European Union renewed its sanctions for six more months, a coordinated action intended to show that any cooperation with Russia in Syria will not mean any trade-off in the confrontation over Ukraine.
这些是美国自7月30日以来首次对俄罗斯采取新措施，就在几天前，欧盟刚刚将其对俄罗斯的制裁再度延长6个多月，这项协同行动旨在显示，与俄罗斯在叙利亚展开合作，不意味着可以换取它们在乌克兰冲突问题上的妥协。
The administration targeted 34 people or companies for sanctions, including 14 that Treasury said had ties to entities already under American and international restrictions or had “engaged in serious and sustained evasion of existing sanctions,” a half-dozen Ukrainian separatists, and a dozen doing business in Crimea. It also sanctioned two people who served in the government of Viktor F. Yanukovych, Ukraine’s former president.
美国政府将制裁目标锁定34个个人或企业，财政部表示其中有14个与已经遭到美国和国际制裁的实体有关联，或曾“严重和持续地逃避制裁”，有五六名乌克兰分裂分子，还有12个在克里米亚半岛做生意的个人或企业。制裁对象还包括两名曾经效力于乌克兰前总统维克多·F·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)的政府的人。