WASHINGTON — With malicious intent strongly suspected in the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, American intelligence and law enforcement agencies renewed their search over the weekend for any evidence that the plane’s diversion was part of a terrorist plot. But they have found nothing so far, senior officials said, and their efforts have been limited by the Malaysian authorities’ refusal to accept large-scale American assistance.
华盛顿——随着外界强烈怀疑马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)370航班失联是恶意的人为事件，美国情报及执法机构于上周末再次展开搜寻，看有没有证据表明飞机改变航向是恐怖主义阴谋的一部分。不过，一些高级官员表示，他们迄今没有找到证据，此外，由于马来西亚当局拒绝接受美国的大规模援助，他们的努力受到了阻碍。
There are just two F.B.I. agents in Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, where local investigators are hunting for clues that the two pilots or any of the other 237 people on board had links to militant groups or other motives to hijack the flight.
只有两名美国联邦调查局(FBI)特工在马来西亚首都吉隆坡开展工作，当地调查人员正在寻找线索，意在查明两名驾驶员或其余237名机上人员当中是否有人与激进组织有关，是否怀有其他的劫机动机。
In the days after the plane went missing on March 8, American investigators scoured their huge intelligence databases for information about those on board but came up dry.
在飞机于3月8日失联后的几天里，美国调查人员通过庞大的情报数据库查询了有关机上人员的信息，但却没有收获。
“We just don’t have the right to just take over the investigation,” said a senior American official who, like others, spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was continuing. “There’s not a whole lot we can do absent of a request from them for more help or a development that relates to information we may have.”
“我们无权径直接管调查事务，”一名高级美国官员说。“如果他们不要求我们提供更多帮助，事态也没有发生与我们可能掌握的信息有关的变化，我们能做的事情就不多。”像其他人一样，这名官员要求匿名，原因是调查仍在进行。
With no obvious motive apparent, American investigators are considering a range of possibilities, though they caution that all remain merely speculative. Among them are involvement by Al Qaeda’s Southeast Asian affiliate, which once discussed recruiting commercial pilots in Malaysia to crash a plane; an act by members of China’s Uighur minority, who have recently become more militant and could conceivably have targeted a plane headed to Beijing; a lone-wolf attack by someone without ties to established terrorist groups; or even a suicidal move by a troubled individual.
由于没有明显动机，美国调查人员正在考虑各种各样的可能性，但他们警告称，一切仍然只是猜测。这些猜测包括：基地组织(Al Qaeda)东南亚分支参与了这次事件，因为他们曾讨论在马来西亚招募商用飞机飞行员，意图制造空难；事件是中国维吾尔少数民族成员的行动，因为他们最近变得愈发激进，可能将飞往北京的飞机当作攻击目标；事件是与主要恐怖组织无关的人员实施的孤狼袭击；或者是某个陷入困境的个人实施的自杀行动。
A central puzzle is why anyone would hijack a jetliner and then fly it for hours over the open ocean, as seems to be the most likely case. On Saturday, the Malaysian authorities opened a criminal inquiry after learning that two tracking devices aboard the aircraft had been turned off several minutes apart, indicating deliberate action, and that the plane appeared to have flown for as long as seven hours more.
主要的困惑之一在于，为什么会有人劫持一架飞机，然后又在开阔水域上空飞行数小时，而这似乎是可能性最大的情况。周六，马来西亚当局展开了刑事调查，因为他们得知飞机上两个示踪装置的关闭时间存在几分钟的间隔，说明这是蓄意行为，此外，飞机失联后似乎继续飞行了长达七个小时。
American officials said the announcement of the criminal investigation did not change their view of the situation, as the Malaysians offered little evidence that had not already been learned in the past week. 
美国官员表示，马方宣布开展刑事调查的举动并没有改变他们对形势的看法，因为马方提出的佐证都是外界已在过去一周知晓的东西，几乎没有提供新的证据。
Several senior American officials have played down the possibility that a terrorist network was behind the plane’s disappearance because no group has claimed responsibility for it. They said intelligence agencies had not detected chatter among terrorists about such a plot. Given the lack of traditional militant “signatures,” one official said, if terrorists were behind the episode, “it would be unlike anything we have seen before.”
几名美国高级官员认为，恐怖组织是飞机失联事件幕后主使的可能性不大，因为没有组织宣称对此负责。他们表示，情报机构没有发现恐怖分子讨论此类图谋的迹象。一名官员表示，鉴于这一事件缺少传统激进组织的“特征”，如果恐怖分子真是幕后主使的话，“这就跟我们之前遇到的情况都不相同。”
In response to the news that Malaysian authorities had taken a flight simulator from the chief pilot’s home, American officials said that they were eager to know what the investigators had found and were willing to help search the computers. But as of Sunday afternoon, the officials said they knew little about the findings. 
对于马来西亚当局从机长家中带走飞行模拟器的报道，美国官员表示，他们很想知道调查人员发现了什么，也愿意帮助探查计算机，不过，这些官员表示，截至周日下午，他们对马方调查人员的发现知之甚少。
As part of their efforts in the days after the plane went missing to determine what had occurred, American analysts and law enforcement agencies conducted link analysis — a computer-based investigative technique that tries to make connections between individuals based on extensive government and airline databases — on the pilots and two Iranian passengers who were traveling on stolen passports. Those efforts, along with interviews with family members of the Iranian men and of two Americans who were on the plane, yielded nothing that pointed to terrorism, officials said.
飞机失踪之后的几天里，为了确定到底发生了什么，美国分析人员和执法机构开展了一系列工作。作为这项工作的部分内容，他们对飞行员和两名持失窃护照登机的伊朗乘客进行了关联分析——这是一种以计算机为工具的调查技术，能够以大量的政府和航空公司数据为基础，尝试在个体之间建立联系。此外，有关方面还对这两个伊朗人以及机上两名美国乘客的家庭成员进行了询问。但是官员称，这些工作都没有带来任何指向恐怖主义的发现。
“If it is a criminal act where the pilot decided to crash the airliner, there is little the U.S. can do,” said Rick Nelson, vice president of business development at Cross Match Technologies and a former senior counterterrorism official. “It’s very difficult to stop someone who one day decides to crash a plane. It is difficult to predict and to mitigate.”
“如果这是由飞行员实施的坠机犯罪行为，美国就无能为力，”交叉配合技术(Cross Match Technologies)的业务发展副总裁、前高级反恐官员里克·纳尔逊(Rick Nelson)说。“如果有谁哪天想撞毁飞机，这是很难阻止的。这种行为难以预防。”
The F.B.I., which has had an agent based at the United States Embassy in Kuala Lumpur for more than a decade, has developed a working relationship with law enforcement officials there in recent years. But American officials said they believed that the Malaysian leaders had rebuffed their offers of assistance because they did not want to appear as though they needed help with such a high-profile investigation.
FBI在美国驻吉隆坡大使馆安排了一名特工，时间已超过十年。近年来，FBI还与吉隆坡的执法人员建立了合作关系。但美国官员称，他们认为，马来领导人之所以拒绝美方的协助提议，是因为这次调查备受关注，他们不希望人们觉得他们需要帮助。