CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. — In the early morning along a barren stretch of beach here last week, Japanese soldiers and American Marines practiced how to invade and retake an island captured by hostile forces.
加利福尼亚州彭德尔顿军营——上周的一个凌晨，沿着这里空荡荡的一片海滩，日本士兵和美国海军练习了如何入侵和夺回被敌对势力攻占的岛屿。
Memo to Beijing: Be forewarned.
此事传达给中国的备忘信息是：要预先有所防范。
One Marine sergeant yelled for his men, guns drawn, to push into the right building as they climbed through the window of an empty house meant to simulate a seaside dwelling.  The Marines had poured out of four amphibious assault vehicles as another group of smaller inflatable boats carrying soldiers of Japan’s Western Army Infantry Regiment landed in an accompanying beachhead assault.
美国海军的一名中士喊手下已拔出枪的士兵向正确的建筑推进，当时，那些士兵正钻过一处空置房屋的窗户，那处房屋模拟的是一处海边寓所。伴随着一场滩头阵地战，海军士兵冲出四辆两栖攻击用车辆，日本西部方面普通科联队(Western Army Infantry Regiment)士兵搭乘另一队较小的充气艇抵达。
There were shouts in Japanese. There were shouts in Marine English. There was air support, from Huey and Cobra helicopters hovering above. Then larger Navy hovercrafts roared in, spitting up a spray of seawater before burping out Humvees and more Japanese troops, their faces blackened with camouflage paint.
现场有用日语喊出的指示，也有用海事英语喊出的口令，还有盘旋在头顶的“休伊”(Huey)和“眼镜蛇”(Cobra)直升机提供空中支援。然后，更大的海军气垫船轰鸣着开了过来，在烧毁高机动多功能轮式运输车和更多日本士兵前激起了四溅的海水。日军士兵的脸被迷彩涂料染黑了。
American military officials, viewing the cooperative action of the former World War II enemies from a nearby hillside, insisted that the annual exercise, called Iron Fist, had nothing, nothing to do with last fall’s game of chicken between Tokyo and Beijing over islands that are largely piles of rocks in the East China Sea. But Lt. Col. John O’Neal, commander of the 15th Marine Expeditionary Unit, said that this year, the Japanese team came with “a new sense of purpose.”
美方军官在附近一个山坡上观察二战时的敌人的协作行动。他们坚称，这一被称作“铁拳”的年度演习与去年秋天日本和中国围绕一些岛屿展开的博弈没有任何关系。相关岛屿主要是东海的一堆堆岩石。但第15海军陆战远征队(15th Marine Expeditionary Unit)指挥官约翰·奥尼尔中校(John O’Neal)说，今年日方士兵有了“新的目标感”。
“There are certainly current events that have added emphasis to this exercise,” he said, as Japanese soldiers made their way up into the rocks before disappearing into the hills above the beach. “Is there a heightened awareness? Yes.”
“肯定有些时事让这次演习更受重视了，”他说，“意识增强了吗？是的。”他说这番话时，日军士兵爬上了岩石，后来消失在了海滩上的树林里。
In the United States military, commanders are increasingly allied in alarm with Japan over China’s flexing of military muscle. Capt. James Fanell, director of intelligence and information operations with the United States Pacific Fleet, recently said in San Diego that China was training its forces to be capable of carrying out a “short, sharp” war with Japan in the East China Sea.
在美军中，指挥官们正越来越多地和日本联手，对中国展现军力的行为提出警告。美军太平洋舰队情报和信息行动主管詹姆斯·法内尔(James Fanell)上校近期在圣地亚哥表示，中国正在训练自己的部队，使之能够在东海和日本进行“短时的激战”。
In a sign of continuing concern, Gen. Ray Odierno, the Army chief of staff, was in China over the weekend seeking to improve the limited relationship between the American and Chinese militaries, perhaps through exchanges of top officers. In recent years, the Pentagon has worried about the buildup of China’s military and a lack of transparency among its leaders.
本周末，美国陆军参谋长雷蒙德·奥迪耶诺上将(Ray Odierno)正待在中国，设法改善中美军方有限的关系，他也许要通过高层官员间的交流来实现这一点，他的这一举动是美方持续感到担忧的一个迹象。近几年，美国国防部一直对中国的军力发展和军方领导中缺乏透明度的现状感到担忧。
The islands at the center of the dispute, known as the Senkaku in Japanese and the Diaoyu in Chinese, are a seven-hour boat ride from Japan, even farther from China, and thought to be surrounded by man-eating sharks. Japan has long administered the islands, but they are claimed by China and Taiwan.
位于争议中心的岛屿，在日本被称为尖阁诸岛，在中国被称为钓鱼岛，它们距离日本有七个小时的船程，距离中国甚至更远，据信这些岛屿周围被食人的鲨鱼所包围。日本长期控制着这些岛屿，不过中国和台湾均声称拥有其主权。
Last year, China set off a trans-Pacific uproar when it declared that an “air defense identification zone” gave it the right to identify and possibly take military action against aircraft near the islands. Japan refused to recognize China’s claim, and the United States defied China by sending military planes into the zone unannounced — even as the Obama administration advised American commercial airlines to comply with China’s demand and notify Beijing in advance of flights through the area.
去年，中国宣布划设“防空识别区”的举动引发了横跨太平洋的轩然大波，此举赋予了中国识别前述岛屿附近的飞行器，以及可能对之采取军事行动的权利。日本拒绝承认中国划设的识别区，美国公然藐视中国的声明，未经通报即向该区域派遣了军机——尽管奥巴马政府同时建议美国的商务航空公司遵从中国要求，在进入该区飞行前提前通知北京。
A few weeks later, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan approved a five-year defense plan that took the pacifist nation further toward its most assertive military posture since World War II.
几周之后，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)批准了五年国防计划，该计划推动了这个和平国家进一步展现它自二战以来最强硬的军事姿态。
This year, when Japanese troops showed up for the exercise with the Marines at Camp Pendleton, they came packing. Instead of the platoon of 25 soldiers they sent to the exercise in 2006, the first year it was conducted, the Japanese arrived nearly 250 strong. They brought along their own Humvees, gear and paraphernalia for retaking islands — or, in Marine parlance, “amphibious assault with the intent to seize objectives inland.”
今年，当日本军队和彭德尔顿军事训练营的海军陆战队一起现身进行军演时，他们带了一堆的装备。日本没有派出在2006年的首次演习时派出的由25名军人组成的排，而是派出了几近有250名高手的队伍。他们带来了自己的军用悍马、传送装置和随身用具，这是为重新夺岛而准备的——或者，用海军陆战队的用语说，这是为意图夺取目标内陆的“两栖突击”战准备的。
The monthlong exercise, which ends Monday, has been spread over a wide section of Southern California. There was the amphibious assault at Camp Pendleton, mortar shoots at the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center at Twentynine Palms and live firing exercises at San Clemente Island. There was a nighttime raid at Naval Amphibious Base Coronado, presumably out of sight of guests sipping pink Champagne on the verandas of the bejeweled Hotel del Coronado a short distance away.
此次演习历时一个月，于本周一结束，涉及加利福利亚州南部的大片区域。其中，双方在彭德尔顿军营演练了两栖进攻、在二十九棕榈村的海军陆战队空地作战中心(Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center)演练了迫击炮发射、在圣克利门蒂岛演练了实弹射击，还在科罗纳多海军两栖基地(Naval Amphibious Base Coronado)演练了夜间突袭。这次突袭，想必是避开了不远处金碧辉煌的科罗纳多酒店(Hotel del Coronado)凉台上抿着玫瑰香槟的宾客的视线。
This year’s Iron Fist, Colonel O’Neal said, was the largest and most involved operation so far. The exercise included drones and the kinds of air support that would be needed to protect Japanese and American troops retaking an island, though the “shaping” that would normally be done in a real-world assault — when the Air Force and Navy bomb intended targets before carrying out an actual ground invasion — was only implied.
奥尼尔上校透露，今年的“铁拳”是迄今为止规模最大且涉及面最广的一次演习。其中动用了无人机，以及掩护日美军队夺回小岛控制权所需的各种空中支援，尽管在实战进攻中通常采用的“铺垫”行动上——进行实际地面进攻前，先由空军和海军发动空中和炮弹袭击——仅做出了姿态。
In the waters just off Coronado last month, Japanese soldiers, clutching their gear, pushed rubber reconnaissance boats out of a hovering helicopter and jumped into the cold water as part of what the Marines called “helo cast” training. The bread and butter of the Marine Corps, helo cast training, with its emphasis on fast and light movements into hostile territory, is not the type of training which Japanese troops have routinely had in the past.
上个月，在科罗纳多海岸附近的水面上，日军士兵抓紧装备，从盘旋的直升机上推下橡胶侦察舟，跳进冰冷的水中。这是海军陆战队员称为“直升机投放”训练的组成部分。“直升机投放”训练是海军陆战队的基础项目，注重快速轻巧地深入敌方地盘。按照过去的惯例，日本军队并不会进行这类练习。
The Japanese soldiers and the Marines have spent much of the past month managing a considerable language barrier. Although they have worked side by side in the joint exercises, they are not intertwined, hence the reason for the parallel amphibious landings. Marine interpreters and their Japanese counterparts dashed between the two militaries, discussing coordinates and plans.
在过去一个月的大部分时间里，日军士兵与美国海军陆战队队员克服了不小的语言障碍。尽管双方在联合演习中并肩行动，但并未混合起来，因此进行了平行两栖登陆。海军陆战队和日军的口译员在两军阵中来回奔波，讨论彼此的坐标和方案。
For Japan, the Iron Fist exercise is a “valuable opportunity where we can learn various techniques from the U.S. forces,” Col. Matushi Kunii, the Japanese commander of the Western Army Infantry Regiment, said at the opening ceremony last month.
在上月的开幕仪式上，日本西部方面普通科联队的指挥官国井松司上校(Matushi Kunii)表示，对日军而言，“铁拳”演习是一次“我们可以向美军学习各项技术的宝贵机会”。
For Japan, defense experts said, the shift to the more comprehensive training with the Marines is a direct response to a more assertive China. “The Japanese have been getting more serious about broadening their training,” said Christopher K. Johnson, senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, because “the Chinese are doing their own exercises that look a lot like island-grabbing.”
防务专家们认为，日本之所以开始与美国海军陆战队一起进行更全面的训练，是为了应对更为强势的中国。华盛顿战略国际研究中心(Center for Strategic and International Studies)的高级顾问克里斯托弗·K·约翰逊(Christopher K. Johnson)称，“日本正越来越严肃地对待训练内容的扩大问题”，这是因为，“中国自己正在做的很像是夺岛演习。”
He pointed to recent military exercises by China that Asia experts believe could be rehearsals for landing operations targeting the uninhabited islands.
他指出了中国最近进行的几次军演。一些亚洲专家认为，这些演习可能是针对无人岛的登陆行动的预演。
And imagine, Asia experts said, if China became assertive about islands where people actually live, like Okinawa.
还有亚洲问题专家称，想象一下，假如中国也开始强势对待冲绳这样的有人居住的岛屿呢？
Some Asia experts believe that is already happening, pointing to recent talk from Chinese scholars, though not the Chinese government, about Okinawa, which the Japanese call Ryukyu.
部分亚洲问题专家认为，这样的事情已经发生了。他们指出，中国学者近期发表了一些涉及冲绳的言论。不过，这些言论并非来自中国政府。在日本，冲绳又名琉球诸岛。
“All of a sudden,” said Andrew Oros, an associate professor of political science at Washington College in Chestertown, Md., and a specialist on East Asia, “it’s no longer about protecting some deserted island; it’s about protecting somewhere where more than one million Japanese people live.”
安德鲁·L·奥罗斯(Andrew L. Oros)是位于马里兰州切斯特敦的华盛顿学院(Washington College)的政治学副教授。他说，“突然之间，事情就不再只涉及某个无人岛了，而是变成了保卫100多万日本民众生活的地方。”