WASHINGTON — After he left Wall Street to enter politics eight years ago, Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut, began fielding the occasional question of when he intended to run for president.
华盛顿——八年前离开华尔街进入政界后，目前身为康涅狄格州民主党众议员的吉姆·海姆斯(Jim Himes)开始应对不时会出现的准备何时竞选总统的问题。
“It has come up in jest any number of times,” said Mr. Himes, who always has his answer ready. “There could be constitutional questions.”
“这个话题在许多次开玩笑时提起过，”海姆斯说。他的答案总是现成的。“可能会有宪法方面的问题。”
Mr. Himes, you see, was born in Peru in 1966 while his father worked for the Ford Foundation. That makes him one of at least 17 current members of Congress who, because of their birth outside the United States, could run afoul of the Constitution’s “natural born citizen” presidential requirement should they try to relocate down Pennsylvania Avenue.
你看，海姆斯1966年出生于秘鲁，他的父亲当时供职于福特基金会(Ford Foundation)。因出生地点位于美国之外，在试图入主白宫时，他可能会和宪法中总统必须“生来即为公民”的要求存在冲突，现任联邦议员中至少有17位拥有这种烦恼的。
For generations, confusion and uncertainty have surrounded this murky presidential qualification. It is a question that dogged President Obama, and even his challenger in 2008, Senator John McCain. With “birtherism” now seemingly a regular feature of American politics, demand is mounting for a definitive answer to the modern meaning of “natural born,” a term that was crafted in an era when ocean crossings took months and people rarely ventured more than a few miles beyond where they were born.
多少代以来，困惑和不确定性一直围绕着这条含混的总统竞选资格规定。这个问题追随过奥巴马总统，乃至他在2008年的挑战者、参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)。在“身世论”如今看来已经成为美国政治的一个常规话题的情况下，对于在当代语境下何为“生来即为公民”越来越需要一个明确的答案。在这个说法诞生的年代，跨洋旅行要花费数月，鲜有人会在出生地以外几英里活动。
“We need to resolve this issue,” said Representative Chris Van Hollen, a Maryland Democrat who was born in Karachi, Pakistan, in 1959 when his father was an American diplomat. “Obviously there are still some outstanding legal questions.”
“我们得解决这个问题，”1959年出生于巴基斯坦卡拉奇的马里兰州民主党众议员克里斯·范霍伦(Chris Van Hollen)说。他的父亲当时是美国外交官。“显然仍存在一些遗留的法律问题。”
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, a Republican presidential candidate, is the latest White House contender to have his natural born credentials challenged. Born in 1970 in Calgary, Alberta, to an American mother and a Cuban father, Mr. Cruz has seen his legitimacy disputed both by an opponent, Donald J. Trump, and in a new lawsuit filed in Texas — possibly the first of several.
共和党总统候选人、来自德克萨斯州的参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)是最近一位“生来即公民”的资质受到挑战的白宫角逐者。克鲁兹1970年在加拿大阿尔伯塔省的卡尔加里出生，母亲为美国籍，父亲则为古巴籍。其正统性不仅受到了对手唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的挑战，还遭遇了在德州新发起的一桩法律诉讼——接下来可能还会有其他诉讼。
Mr. Cruz says his legal standing is not in doubt, but it is not so simple.
克鲁兹称他的法律身份毋庸置疑，但事情并不那么简单。
The overarching problem is that the Supreme Court has never been forced to interpret the clunky clause, leaving persuasive legal interpretations that range from arguing that the entire debate is nonsensical to asserting that only those born to certified American parents on verifiable American soil can aspire to the White House.
真正的问题是，最高法院从未被迫诠释这一过时条款，使得有一定道理的法律诠释倍出，既有人认为这整个争论毫无意义，也有人宣称只有父母为货真价实的美国公民、且在可证实的美国领土上出生的人才有资格入主白宫。
Laurence H. Tribe, the Harvard law professor and constitutional scholar, believes the “natural born” provision has outlived its original intent considering that the redcoats are no longer coming.
哈佛法学教授、宪法学者劳伦斯·H·特赖布(Lawrence H. Tribe)相信，考虑到英国兵已经不会再打过来了，“生来即公民”条款存在的时间已超越了其原本的用意。
“The worry that George III might come over and exert undue Germanic or British influence is no longer a threat,” said Mr. Tribe, referring to a motivating fear of the founding fathers. “There is no defense now for retaining the clause in the Constitution. It really needs to be removed.”
“乔治三世可能会过来施加德国或英国的不当影响力的担忧已经不再是一个威胁了，”特赖布说。在这里，他提及的是推动建国先贤设立该条款的一项忧虑。“现在已经没有在宪法中保留这一条款的辩护理由了。它的确应该被移除。”
Before Mr. Cruz, Mr. McCain, who was born in the Panama Canal Zone, had to navigate the issue. Some have raised questions about Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican and presidential candidate who was born in the United States to two Cuban immigrants who were not yet citizens. And Mr. Obama still endures questions about his citizenship despite his confirmed origins in Hawaii.
在克鲁兹之前，出生于巴拿马运河地区的麦凯恩不得不和这个问题周旋。一些人还对来自佛罗里达州的共和党参议员、总统候选人马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)提出了质疑。他出生于美国，父母为古巴移民，但他们当时还不是美国公民。在已确认夏威夷出身的情况下，奥巴马还在忍受有关他公民身份的质疑。
But a resolution is no easy task.
然而，在这一问题上达成决议并不简单。
A constitutional amendment could be the most certain route. Simply excising the phrase “natural born” in a bit of constitutional copy-editing would mean that a person elected president would have to be a citizen of at least 35 years of age who has been a resident of the United States for at least 14 years — an approach that could open the presidency to naturalized citizens.
一条宪法修正案可能是最确定的途径。通过一点宪法文本编辑来直接删除“生来即为公民”的字眼，会意味着一个人要被选举为总统，必须为在美国居住了至少14年的年满35周岁的公民——这样的举措将会为归化的公民当选总统打开大门。
But changing the Constitution is purposefully complicated and requires overwhelming backing from Congress and state legislatures. Even well-intentioned tampering can open the door to much more explosive proposals. It is easy to imagine people would have many alternative ideas for defining the qualifications to be president once that ball got rolling.
不过，修改宪法被有意设置得很复杂，并且需要获得国会和各州立法机构的压倒性支持。即使善意的改动也会为激进得多的提议敞开大门。一旦开启了这样的动向，不难想象人们对成为总统的资格会有很多不同的想法。
Mr. Tribe paints a theoretical scenario where the quickest answer could be provided in a legal case. Say Mr. Cruz becomes the Republican nominee, yet is denied a spot on the ballot in a state with a meaningful number of electoral votes. As the injured party, Mr. Cruz would certainly have motivation to sue as well as standing, a threshold often difficult to meet in such cases. And the courts would have incentive to act quickly before a crisis, hopefully resulting in a definitive ruling that would settle the issue.
特赖布说到了理论上存在的一种可能性，通过打官司来给出最快的答案。比如，克鲁兹成为共和党提名人选，但却无法把名字放到某个州的选票上，而这个州拥有的选举人票数举足轻重。作为受害的一方，克鲁兹肯定有起诉的动机和实力，达到在这类案件中通常很难跨越的门槛。而法院也有在事件演变成危机之前迅速采取行动的动机，有望做出一个能解决问题的明确裁决。
Perhaps the matter will never come to a head. But it is also not difficult to envision a case in which the result of the presidential election ends up in a nasty legal fight and the Supreme Court is called on to sort it out. That is not a spectacle many Americans — or members of the Supreme Court — want to see again.
或许事情永远都不会发展到特别紧迫的程度。但也不难设想，总统选举的结果最后成了一场僵持不下的法律大战，要让最高法院来平定局面。很多美国人——包括最高法院的大法官——都不希望看到这种情形再次上演。
And there are other complications. What about the vice presidency? Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, who has been mentioned as a potential member of a Democratic ticket, was born in India when his father was a diplomat. Is he eligible?
还有其他错综复杂的因素。比如副总统职位的要求又该如何？来自科罗拉多州的参议员迈克尔·贝内特(Michael Bennet)常被提及可能会成为民主党的总统竞选搭档而登上选票。但他出生在印度，其父是当时派驻那里的外交官。他有资格吗？
“Ambiguity is always a bad thing, so of course it would be good to get this straightened out,” said Mr. Himes, who, like Mr. Van Hollen, pointedly noted that he was not contemplating a presidential run.
“模棱两可向来不是好事，所以把事情理清当然好，” 海姆斯说。和范霍伦一样，他刻意指出自己目前并未考虑竞选总统。
The struggle over the “natural born” provision has greater meaning as well. Interpreted at its narrowest, it would eliminate from the presidential pool tens of thousands of bona fide Americans who are no less citizens than their neighbors. They would be shut out purely by accident of birth abroad — quite possibly because their parents were away serving the nation’s interests.
围绕“生来即为公民”这一条款的斗争还有更重要的意义。从最狭隘的层面解读，它会将数万名真正的美国人排除在总统人选之外。他们作为美国公民货真价实的程度，不亚于自己的邻居。仅仅是碰巧出生在国外——而且很可能是因为他们的父母为了国家利益而身居异国——他们就可能会被排除在外。
“That in itself is rather undemocratic,” Mr. Tribe said.
“这件事本身就很不民主，” 特赖布说。