WASHINGTON — Concerned about an increasingly assertive China, the United States and Japan agreed on Monday to new rules for military cooperation that envision an expanded role for Japanese forces.
华盛顿——出于对军事上日益自信的中国的担忧，美日两国本周一就新的军事合作规则达成一致，意图拓展日本武装力量的角色。
The former guidelines for the alliance were geared specifically toward the defense of Japan, but the new rules eliminate any geographic restrictions.
旧版防卫合作指针是专门针对日本领土防务而设计的，而新版指针取消了一切地域限制。
“That is a very big change, from being locally focused to being globally focused,” Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter said on Monday at a news conference with Secretary of State John Kerry and their Japanese counterparts.
“这是一个非常大的变化，从局部关注到全球关注，”国防部长阿什顿·B·卡特(Ashton B. Carter)在周一的新闻发布会上表示，出席的还有美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)以及日本的同级别官员。
On Tuesday, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan is scheduled to visit the White House, where officials hope to highlight increased security and economic cooperation between the United States and Japan in a series of announcements, meetings, another news conference and a state dinner for 200 guests.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)定于周二访问白宫，并希望通过在那里进行的一系列公告、会议、另一场新闻发布会以及200人的国宴，突显美日两国正在安全和经济领域加强合作。
When they meet in the Oval Office, President Obama and Mr. Abe are expected to discuss some major sticking points between their two nations on trade issues — including tariffs on American automobile parts and on Japanese agriculture products — that have held up progress on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a sweeping trade pact that is to include a dozen countries.
安倍将在白宫椭圆形办公室与美国总统奥巴马举行会谈，商讨两国在贸易问题上的主要症结——包括美国汽车零部件和日本农业产品的关税问题——这些问题的存在，阻碍了跨太平洋伙伴关系协定(Trans Pacific Partnership)的进程，这个大范围的贸易协定将包含数十个成员国。
Mr. Obama has made completion of the pact a top priority, and side deals with Japan are widely seen as a prerequisite for doing so. But the president faces strong opposition from Democrats in Congress, and White House officials said that they do not expect to settle all differences with Japan while Mr. Abe is visiting.
奥巴马总统已将完成这一协定作为头等大事，而与日本取得共识被广泛认为是这样做的前提。但是奥巴马总统面临来自国会中民主党人的强烈反对，白宫官员说，他们并不指望在安倍晋三访问美国期间解决与日本的所有分歧。
The new military guidelines replace a set of more restrictive rules that were issued in 1997. American and Japanese officials said the new guidelines were not directed at specific nations. Still, the agreement clearly reflects worries about North Korea and, especially, China, whose territorial claims in the South China Sea and growing military spending have upset its neighbors.
新版防卫合作指针取代了1997年旧版指针的一系列更严格的规则。美国和日本官员表示新指针并不针对任何国家。但是，该协议清晰地反映了对朝鲜和中国的忧虑，尤其是后者。中国对南海的领土主张和不断增长的军费开支令其邻国不安。
In an unmistakable allusion to China and its declaration of maritime claims and air defense zones, Mr. Kerry said that the United States rejected the notion that the freedom to navigate international waters and fly though international airspace were “privileges granted by big states to small ones, subject to the whim and fancy of a big state.”
克里表示，美国不能接受将国际海域的航行、国际空域的飞行说成是“大国给予小国的特别待遇，要看大国的脸色行事”，这无疑是在针对中国及其海洋领土和防空识别区主张。
The new military cooperation guidelines allow for Japanese forces to be employed in a broader range of military situations, including “gray zone” challenges that fall short of full-fledged hostilities, Adam P. Liff, an assistant professor at Indiana University, wrote in a recent article in which he described this as a significant change.
印第安纳大学(Indiana University)助理教授亚当·P·里夫(Adam P. Liff)在最近的一篇文章中写道，新指针扩大了日本自卫队采取军事行动的适用范围，其中包括所谓的“灰色地带”，即威胁还达不到全面敌对行动的程度，他称这是一个重大改变。
A senior Defense Department official told reporters that in the past, Japanese forces could help their American counterparts if they were defending Japanese soil. Now, by way of example, Japanese forces also could aid American ships involved in missile-defense activities in the region, or Japan could intercept a missile heading for the United States.
一名国防部高级官员告诉记者，在过去，日本武装力量只能在保卫日本领土时协助美军。现在就不同了，举例来说，自卫队可以协助在该地区从事导弹防御的美国军舰，或拦截以美国为攻击目标的导弹。
“Today, we mark the establishment of Japan’s capacity to defend not just its own territory, but also the United States and other partners as needed,” Mr. Kerry said.
“今天，我们明确了日本的力量不再局限于只捍卫其领土主权，还要满足美国和其他合作伙伴之所需”，克里说。
While stressing the need to address challenges to stability in the South China Sea arising from China’s policies there, Japanese officials avoided talk on Monday about any joint action with the United States in that region.
日本官员强调中国南海政策对该地区稳定构成了挑战，需要采取对策，但对美日周一在那里举行的联合军事行动避而不谈。
Asked what new missions, the Japanese military might now undertake, Gen Nakatani, Japan’s defense minister, pointed to maritime operations like minesweeping or inspecting ships for weapons or contraband in the Middle East. But Mr. Nakatani added that he and Mr. Carter would be consulting on the South China Sea.
当被问及日本军方现在可能会承担什么样的新任务时，日本防卫大臣中谷元(Gen Nakatani)提到了一些海上行动，例如在中东执行海上扫雷和武器或违禁品偷运船只检查的任务。不过，中谷还表示，他和卡特将就南海问题进行协商。