WASHINGTON — American intelligence officials have concluded that the North Korean government was “centrally involved” in the recent attacks on Sony Pictures’s computers, a determination reached just as Sony on Wednesday canceled its release of the comedy, which is based on a plot to assassinate Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.
华盛顿——周三，美国情报官员得出结论，说朝鲜政府在索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)最近遭受的网络攻击中“发挥了核心作用”。索尼也在当日取消了电影《采访》(The Interview)的上映，那是一部关于刺杀朝鲜领导人金正恩的喜剧片。
Senior administration officials, who would not speak on the record about the intelligence findings, said the White House was still debating whether to publicly accuse North Korea of what amounts to a cyberterrorism campaign. Sony’s decision to cancel release of “The Interview” amounted to a capitulation to the threats sent out by hackers this week that they would launch attacks, perhaps on theaters themselves, if the movie was released.
一些不愿对相关情报调查结果发表正式言论的政府高级官员表示，关于是否就这种构成网络恐怖主义的行动对朝鲜公开提出谴责，白宫还存在争论。黑客们本周威胁说，如果这部电影上映，他们就会发动攻击，攻击地点有可能就在电影院。索尼决定取消上映《采访》，相当于向这种威胁屈服。
Officials said it was not clear how the White House would decide to respond to NorthKorea. Some within the Obama administration argue that the government of Mr. Kim must be directly confronted, but that raises the question of what consequences the administration would threaten — or how much of its evidence it could make public without revealing details of how the United States was able to penetrate North Korean computer networks to trace the source of the hacking.
官员们表示，目前还不清楚白宫将决定如何回应朝鲜。奥巴马政府内部的一些人认为，美国必须直面金正恩政府，但随之而来的问题是，奥巴马政府能以怎样的后果相威胁，以及有多少证据可以公开，而又不会暴露美国政府如何渗透朝鲜电脑网络，来追查黑客来源的细节。
Others argue that a direct confrontation with the North over the threats to Sony and moviegoers might result in escalation, and give North Korea the kind of confrontation it often covets. Japan, for which Sony is an iconic corporate name, has argued that a public accusation could interfere with delicate diplomatic negotiations underway for the return of Japanese nationals kidnapped years ago.
其他人则认为，就朝鲜威胁索尼和电影观众的做法，与朝鲜发生正面冲突，可能导致事态升级，这样做正中朝鲜下怀，因为它常常希望进行这种对抗。索尼是一个著名日本品牌，日本也表示，公开谴责朝鲜可能会扰乱一项棘手的外交谈判。日本正在与朝鲜交涉，希望朝方释放数年前绑架的日本公民。
The sudden urgency inside the administration over the Sony issue came after a new threat was delivered this week to desktop computers at Sony’s offices that if “The Interview” was released on Dec. 25, “the world will be full of fear.” It continued: “Remember the 11th of September 2001. We recommend you to keep yourself distant from the places at that time.”
本周，一条新的威胁信息被发送到索尼办公室里的台式电脑上，这引发了美国政府急迫的反应。这条消息称，如果《采访》于12月25日上映，“世界将充满恐惧感”，还说“别忘了2001年9月11日，建议你们到时候离这些地方远一点”。
Sony dropped its plan to release the film after the four largest theater chains in the United States — Regal Entertainment, AMC Theaters, Cinemark and Carmike Cinemas — and several smaller chains said they would not show the film. The cancellations virtually killed “The Interview” as a theatrical enterprise, at least in the near term, one of the first known instances of a threat from another nation pre-empting the release of a movie.
美国四大院线——帝王娱乐集团(Regal Entertainment)、AMC娱乐(AMC)、喜满客(Cinemark)、卡麦克影业(Carmike Cinemas)——以及一些较小的院线表示不会放映这部电影之后，索尼放弃了该片的上映计划。这样一来，《采访》就失去了在电影院上映的机会，至少在短期内是如此。来自别国的威胁提前阻止一部电影的上映，就我们所知，这还是第一次。
While intelligence officials have concluded that the cyberattack on Sony was both state sponsored and far more destructive than any seen before on American soil, there are still differences of opinion over whether North Korea was aided by Sony insiders with an intimate knowledge of the company’s computer systems.
虽然情报官员得出的结论是，索尼遭受的网络攻击不仅是由某个国家主导的，而且远比美国本土此前遭受的任何网络攻击都更具破坏性。对于朝鲜是否从了解索尼电脑系统的内部人士那里获得了帮助，各方仍然存在分歧。
“This is of a different nature than past attacks,” one senior official said. A cyberattack that began by wiping out data on corporate computers — something that had previously been seen in attacks in South Korea and Saudi Arabia, but not the United States — has turned “into a threat to the safety of Americans” if the movie was shown. However, the official, echoing a statement from the Department of Homeland Security, said there was “no specific, credible threat information” that would suggest that any attack was imminent.
“这次攻击的性质不同于以往，”一位高级官员说。黑客以往发动网络攻击时，会清除企业电脑的数据——韩国和沙特以前遭受过这样的攻击，但美国没有。如今，攻击行为已经变成如果这部电影上映，“就会威胁到美国人的安全”。然而，这位官员表示，“没有具体、可信的威胁情报”表明会出现任何迫在眉睫的攻击。他的说法与国土安全部(Department of Homeland Security)的一份声明一致。
It is not clear how the United States came to its determination that the North Korean regime played a central role in the Sony attacks. North Korea has been a notoriously hard target for computer penetration. But four years ago the National Security Agency launched a major effort to penetrate the country’s computer operations, including its elite cyberteam, and to establish “implants” in the country’s networks that, like a radar system, would monitor the development of malware transmitted from the country.
目前尚不清楚，美国是如何得出结论，认为朝鲜政权在索尼遭受的攻击中发挥了核心作用的。要渗透朝鲜的电脑系统一直非常困难。但四年前，国家安全局(National Security Agency)开展了一项渗透朝鲜电脑系统的重大行动，目标包括该国的精英网络团队，并在该国网络“植入”了类似雷达的代码，用来监控该国输出的恶意软件的开发状况。
But it is hardly a foolproof system. And while the attack on Sony used some commonly available cybertools, one intelligence official said, “This was of a sophistication that a year ago we would have said was beyond the North’s capabilities.”
但是，这个系统并不简陋。虽然在索尼遭受的攻击中，黑客使用了一些常用的网络工具，不过一位情报官员说，“这次攻击很先进，如果是在一年前，我们会认为这超出了朝鲜的能力。”
It is rare for the United States to publicly accuse countries suspected of involvement in cyberintrusions or attacks. The administration never publicly said who attacked White House and State Department computers over the past two months, or JPMorgan Chase’s systems last summer. Russia is suspected in the first two cases, but there is conflicting evidence on JPMorgan.
美国很少公开指责别国涉嫌网络入侵或攻击。美国政府从来没有公开说过，在过去两个月里，是谁攻击了白宫和国务院的电脑，在今年夏天，又是谁攻击了摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)的系统。前两宗攻击怀疑是俄罗斯所为，但在摩根大通遭受攻击的案件中，证据相互矛盾。
But in this case, there is a long forensic trail. The attackers used readily available commercial tools to wipe data off Sony’s machines. They also borrowed tools and techniques that had been used in at least two previous attacks, one in Saudi Arabia two years ago — widely attributable to Iran — and another last year in South Korea, aimed at banks and media companies.
然而在本案中，可以取证调查的线索比较多。攻击者使用了现成的商用工具，清除了索尼电脑上的数据。他们使用的一些工具和手法，曾在过去的至少两起攻击中运用过，其中一起发生在两年前，目标是一家沙特阿拉伯企业——普遍认为是伊朗人所为；另一起发生在去年，目标是韩国的银行和媒体公司。
The attacks at Sony were routed from command and control centers across the world, including a convention center in Singapore and a computer at Thammasat University in Thailand. But one of those command and control servers, a computer in Bolivia, had been used before, in a limited set of cyberattacks on South Korean targets two years ago. That suggests, but does not prove that that the same group or individuals may have been behind both attacks.
索尼遭受的攻击，途经了世界各地的指挥控制节点，其中包括新加坡一个会议中心，以及泰国国立法政大学(Thammasat University)的一台电脑。但是，这些指令和控制服务器当中，有一个是位于玻利维亚的一台电脑，在两年前韩国目标遭受的网络攻击中，黑客就使用过它。这显示出，有可能是同一个团队或个人开展了这两起攻击，不过并不能充分证明这一点。
The Sony malware also shared remarkable similarities with the malware used in the destructive attacks on South Korean banks and broadcasters last year. Those attacks, which also destroyed data belonging to their victims, are believed to be the work of a cybercriminal gang known as Dark Seoul. Some experts say they cannot rule out the possibility that the Sony attack was the work of a Dark Seoul copycat.
索尼攻击案中使用的恶意软件，与韩国银行和媒体公司去年遭受的破坏性攻击中使用的恶意软件，有明显的相似之处。那些攻击案也破坏了受害者的数据，人们怀疑是网络犯罪团伙“黑暗首尔”(Dark Seoul)所为。一些专家说，不能排除有其他人模仿黑暗首尔的手法，对索尼实施了攻击。
The Sony attack also borrowed a wiping tool from an attack two years ago at Saudi Aramco, where hackers wiped out data off 30,000 Aramco computers, replacing it with an image of a burning American flag.
索尼攻击案中使用的数据清除工具，与两年前沙特阿拉伯国家石油公司（Saudi Aramco，简称沙特阿美）遭受的那起攻击相同，黑客利用它清除了沙特阿美3万台电脑的数据，取而代之以一幅图像，上面显示着一面正在燃烧的美国国旗。
Security experts were never able to track down the hackers behind the attacks at Saudi Aramco, though United States officials have long said they believe the attacks emanated from Iran, using tools that are now on the black market.
安全专家们一直没有追查出沙特阿美攻击案中的黑客，但美国官员长期以来都表示，他们相信攻击者来自伊朗，使用的是黑市上现在可以取得的工具。