SEOUL, South Korea — Japan and South Korea on Monday pledged for the first time to share military intelligence about North Korean weapons programs, in a three-way pact with the United States that Washington hopes will improve cooperation between its mutually estranged Asian allies.
韩国首尔——周一，日本和韩国与美国达成三方协议，日韩两国首次承诺分享有关朝鲜武器计划的军事情报。华盛顿方面希望该协议会加强这两个彼此疏远的亚洲盟友之间的合作。
Defense analysts called the agreement a small but symbolic breakthrough because it brought together Japan and South Korea, two prosperous democracies that have been divided by emotional disputes over history and territory. The difficulties of bridging their differences were evident in the narrow scope of the pact, which was not a legally binding treaty but a memorandum of understanding.
国防分析人士称，这一举动虽小，但却是一个具有象征意义的突破，因为它促使日本和韩国联合了起来。这两个繁荣的民主国家因为历史及领土方面的激烈争端而存在分歧。协议涉及的范围很窄，这明显说明弥合两国分歧的难度很大，这不是一份具有法律约束力的协议，而是一份谅解备忘录。
Under the pact, the sharing of classified information will be limited to North Korea’s missile and nuclear weapons programs. In addition, Japan and South Korea will share that intelligence not directly, but via the United States.
根据该协议，机密情报的分享仅限于朝鲜导弹及核武器计划方面的情报。此外，日本和韩国将通过美国，而不是直接分享情报。
Still, analysts said the fact that the memorandum was signed at all represented a possible warming of the relations between the two nations. They said that while Japan had always been more open to signing such an agreement, South Korea had to overcome deep distrust about Japan to sign the deal.
不过，分析人士还是表示，签署备忘录的事实本身，就说明两国关系有可能回暖。他们表示，日本一直对签署此类协议持比较开放的态度，而韩国签署协议则需要克服对日本深深的不信任。
“This small success could be an important turning point,” said Nam Chang-hee, an expert on Japan-Korea military relations at Inha University in Incheon, South Korea. “It could build Korean public confidence in Japan, which shares the same North Korean threat.”
“这个小小的成功可能会是一个重要的转折点，”在韩国仁川的仁荷大学(Inha University)研究日韩军事关系的专家南昌熙(Nam Chang-hee)说。“这会促使韩国民众建立对日本的信心，日本也面临着相同的朝鲜威胁。”
The last time Japan and South Korea tried to sign an intelligence-sharing agreement, two years ago, the deal unraveled before it could be completed because of public opposition in Korea. Many Koreans remain highly suspicious of Japan, their former colonial master, which ruled the Korean Peninsula with an iron fist for 35 years until the end of World War II.
日本与韩国上一次尝试签署情报共享协议是在两年前，但由于遭到韩国公众的反对，协议破裂，最终没有达成。很多韩国人仍对其前殖民宗主国日本怀有高度怀疑，在二战结束之前，日本对韩国进行了长达35年的铁腕统治。
Relations have deteriorated recently as the two nations’ leaders have failed to see eye to eye on delicate historical issues, such as Japan’s culpability for forcing women from Korea and elsewhere to work in wartime military brothels. While President Park Geun-hye of South Korea has shown a personal interest in attaining redress for these so-called comfort women, Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, has expressed doubts about the extent to which the women were coerced.
由于两国领导人没能在微妙的历史问题上达成一致，比如日本战时强迫韩国及其他国家的女性在军队妓院工作的罪行，因此两国关系近来出现恶化。韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)本人很重视为这些称作“慰安妇”的受害者索取补偿，而日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)则对这些女性在多大程度上受到了强迫表示怀疑。
Officials said that the signing of Monday’s memorandum of understanding reflected a renewed appreciation of North Korea’s ability to threaten its neighbors not only with missiles and nuclear weapons, but also by less conventional means such as cyberattacks.
官员们表示，周一签署谅解备忘录的举措反映了对朝鲜威胁能力的新认识。朝鲜不仅可以通过导弹和核武器，还可以通过网络攻击等非常规手段来威胁邻国。
The United States has blamed the North for hacking the film company Sony Pictures in November, while South Korea is investigating whether the North was behind a cyberattack on a nuclear plant operator.
美国指责朝鲜于11月对索尼电影娱乐公司(Sony Pictures)进行了黑客攻击，韩国则正在调查，一家核电站运营商受到的网络攻击，是不是朝鲜主使的。
“For Japan, the United States and Korea, how to deal with the threat of North Korean nuclear weapons and missiles is a shared security concern,” Gen Nakatani, Japan’s defense minister, said. “This memorandum of understanding is meaningful because it improves the national security of the three nations.”
“如何应对朝鲜核武器和导弹的威胁，对于日本、美国和韩国而言，是个共同的安全问题，”日本防卫大臣中谷元(Gen Nakatani)说。 “这个谅解备忘录是有意义的，因为它改善了这三个国家的国家安全状况。”
Defense analysts said Monday’s deal was only possible because of the central role played by the United States, which is trusted by both sides and which stations tens of thousands of military personnel in Japan and South Korea. The United States did not play a direct role in the deal that fell through two years ago, which was to be a bilateral pact between Japan and South Korea.
国防分析人士表示，周一的交易之所以能够达成，还多亏了美国所扮演的中心角色。美国受双方信任，而且还在日本和韩国驻扎着数以万计的军事人员。美国没有在两年前受挫的协议中直接发挥作用，那次是日本与韩国之间的双边协议。
The new American role comes after years of efforts by the Obama administration to press its two closest allies in the region to reconcile and present a united front in coping with the North. Defense analysts said that Japan and South Korea had much to offer each other in intelligence sharing: Japan has advanced electronic spying capabilities via its aircraft and satellites, while the South has better on-the-ground human intelligence.
数年来，奥巴马政府一直敦促它在该地区最亲密的两个盟友实现和解，在应对朝鲜的问题上组成统一战线，于是美国才扮演了这种新角色。国防分析人士表示，日本与韩国拥有大量可供分享的情报：借助航空器和卫星，日本拥有先进的电子侦查能力，而韩国则有更好的实地人工情报。