After decades of buying up boutique firms, the advertising conglomerates Omnicom Group and Publicis Groupe finally set their sights on one another.
过去几十年里，广告集团宏盟集团(Omnicom Group)和阳狮集团(Publicis Groupe)一直在收购小公司。现在，它们终于把彼此当成了收购目标。
The two announced a merger on Sunday that would create the world’s biggest family of agencies, with a stock market value of $35.1 billion and more than 130,000 employees.
周日，两家集团宣布合并。合并后的新集团将成为全球最大的广告集团，市值351亿美元（约合2154亿元人民币），员工超过13万名。
In the early going at least, the new Publicis Omnicom Group would have co-chief executives: John D. Wren of Omnicom, based in New York, and Maurice Lévy of Publicis, based in Paris. But after 30 months, Mr. Wren, who is 60, would become sole chief executive and Mr. Lévy, 71, would be nonexecutive chairman.
新的阳狮宏盟集团会实行联席首席执行官制，至少在集团成立初期是这样的。纽约的宏盟集团CEO庄任(John D. Wren)及巴黎的阳狮集团CEO莫里斯·列维(Maurice Lévy)将分享权力。但30个月之后，60岁的庄任将独自担任首席执行官，而71岁的列维将担任非执行董事长。
On Sunday, Mr. Lévy and Mr. Wren said their deal sprung from a casual conversation six months ago during a social encounter. Then on further reflection, Mr. Lévy joked, “it looked like it was not that stupid after all.”
周日，列维及庄任称，这次合并源于它们六个月前在一次社交场合相遇时的闲谈。列维想了想之后开玩笑说，“看似这事儿办得没那么蠢。”
If the merger passes muster with shareholders and government officials, the new conglomerate’s combined revenues, which totaled about $23 billion last year, would be far greater than the $16 billion in revenues for WPP of London, the current industry leader.
去年，两家集团的收入总计约为230亿美元。如果此次合并得到股东及政府官员的批准，新集团的总收入将远超现在的行业领军者，伦敦的WPP集团。WPP的收入为160亿美元。
Publicis is considered a French national champion, and French officials have been active during President François Hollande’s tenure about protecting its business icons from foreign dominance. It was not immediately clear what position Mr. Hollande’s government might take on the merger. Calls to Élysée Palace over the weekend were not returned.
阳狮集团被视作法国重要的民族企业。在法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)任内，法国官员积极保护重要民族企业不被外资控制。奥朗德政府对于本次合并持何立场尚不清楚。周末本报曾致电爱丽舍宫，但无人应答。
At a news conference, Mr. Lévy said the companies informed the French government of their plans on Saturday and had received “tremendous support” from officials. “We are not owned by the French government,” Mr. Lévy said, “yet we are one of the iconic companies in France.”
在一次新闻发布会上，列维称，两家公司于周六向法国政府通报了他们的计划，并且得到了官方的“大力支持”。“我们并不归法国政府所有，”列维说，“不过我们是法国标志性的企业之一。”
He said that the combined companies wanted a neutral third country as the place to register the new holding company. They ruled out Ireland and Luxembourg, Mr. Lévy said, to avoid the appearance that they were seeking a tax haven. They chose the Netherlands — which at 25 percent has a nominal corporate income tax rate that is higher than Ireland’s and Luxembourg’s, but below the 33.33 percent rate in France and the 40 percent rate in the United States, according to the global accounting firm KPMG. Mr. Lévy said the companies would keep their headquarters in both Paris and New York to avoid the impression that Publicis would be “swallowed” by an American company — something that he said would not be accepted in France.
他说，合并后的公司希望选择一个中立的第三国作为新控股公司的注册地。列维说，他们排除了爱尔兰及卢森堡，免得看起来像是在寻求避税天堂。他们选择了荷兰。国际会计师事务所毕马威(KPMG)称，荷兰的企业税税率较低，为25%，虽然高于爱尔兰及卢森堡，但是低于法国和美国。法国的企业税税率为33.33%，美国为40%。列维称，公司将保留位于巴黎和纽约的总部，以免造成阳狮集团被美国公司“吞并”的印象，他说这在法国是不能接受的。
In a statement, Mr. Lévy cited technological advancements in advertising and the rise of so-called Big Data — the ability to amass larger volumes of consumer information and make money from it in various ways — as reasons for the merger.
列维在一份声明中称，这起并购的理由是广告业中的技术进步，以及所谓的“大数据”(Big Data)的崛起，即能够收集到较大规模的消费者信息，并利用这些信息以各种方式赚钱。
“The communication and marketing landscape has undergone dramatic changes in recent years including the exponential development of new media giants, the explosion of Big Data, blurring of the roles of all players and profound changes in consumer behavior,” he said.
他说，“近几年来，传播和营销行业的格局经历了剧烈的转变，包括新媒体巨头的几何级数发展、大数据的爆发、所有行业参与者角色的模糊化，以及消费者行为的深远转变。”
Mr. Wren also stressed the importance of digital technology to advertising’s future. “Everything three years from now is going to be digital,” he said. “Everything that we do, even billboards nowadays are digital or become digital.”
庄任还强调，数字技术对于广告行业的未来十分重要。“三年之后，所有东西都会涉及数字技术，”他说，“我们做的每一件事，甚至今天的广告牌，都已经采用或即将采用数字技术。”
The merger would bring under one roof separate networks of ad agencies — including BBDO, TBWA and DDB under Omnicom, and Leo Burnett and Saatchi & Saatchi under Publicis. Collectively, the conglomerates represent some of the world’s largest brands, including AT&T, Visa and Pepsi at Omnicom and McDonald’s, Coca-Cola and Walmart at Publicis.
这起合并，将把许多相互独立的广告公司网络纳入同一个屋檐下，包括宏盟旗下的BBDO、TBWA、DDB，阳狮旗下的李奥贝纳(Leo Burnett)和盛世广告(Saatchi & Saatchi)。这两家企业集团一起代表了世界上最大的一些品牌，包括宏盟代表的AT&T、Visa、百事(Pepsi)，以及阳狮代表的麦当劳(McDonald’s)、可口可乐(Coca-Cola)、沃尔玛(Walmart)。
Shareholders of each company will hold 50 percent of the equity in the new company, which will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Euronext Paris and included in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and the CAC 40 in Paris.
每家公司的股东都将持有新公司50%的股权，新公司将在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)和泛欧巴黎交易所(Euronext Paris)上市，并将成为标准普尔500指数(Standard & Poor’s 500)和巴黎CAC 40指数的成分股。
The executives said that they hoped the deal would be completed later this year, or early next year, depending on the regulatory approvals.
两家公司的高管表示，他们希望交易能在今年晚些时候或明年初完成，具体进度取决于监管审批。
At least one competitor was willing to comment on Sunday — if only to deride the merger strategy. David Jones, the chief executive of Havas, a competing French advertising holding company, referred the deal as “an industrial merger in the digital age.”
至少有一家竞争对手愿意在周日发表评论，哪怕只是嘲讽一下这个合并战略。汉威士(Havas)首席执行官戴维·琼斯(David Jones)称这笔交易是“数字时代的工业合并”。广告业控股公司汉威士是一家来自法国的竞争对手。
“Clients today want us to be faster, more agile, more nimble and more entrepreneurial — not bigger and more bureaucratic and more complex,” Mr. Jones said in a statement.
琼斯在一份声明中说，“今天的客户期望我们更快、更敏捷、更灵活、更具创业精神——而不是更大、更官僚、更复杂。”
Earlier this year, France’s industrial renewal minister, Arnaud Montebourg, scuttled a deal by Yahoo to take a 75 percent stake in DailyMotion, a French Web video start-up in which the government holds a 27 percent share. Warning that Yahoo would “devour” DailyMotion, he insisted that Yahoo reduce its stake to 50 percent, causing Yahoo to walk away.
今年早些时候，法国生产振兴部长阿尔诺·蒙特布尔(Arnaud Montebourg)制止了雅虎(Yahoo)购买法国视频网站创业企业DailyMotion的75%股份的交易。后者有27%的股份由法国政府持有。他警告雅虎会“吞噬”DailyMotion，坚持要求雅虎将持股比例降至50%，这令雅虎放弃了交易。
But Mr. Lévy might be in a better position to finesse any government resistance to the loss of a national icon. He is one of the best-connected businessmen in France and has cultivated relationships with each administration since he joined Publicis in 1987.
如果政府因不愿失去一个象征国家的品牌而进行阻挠，列维应该能很好地展开行动，来化解问题。他是法国关系最广的商人之一，从他1987年加入阳狮以来，与历届政府都培养了良好关系。
Despite his clout, Mr. Lévy has been a polarizing figure to the French public, coming under fire for receiving multimillion-euro pay packages that are among the highest of any French executive. His pay — 16 million euros last year — was a flash point during the 2012 presidential elections, when Mr. Hollande slammed what he called excessive executive pay and called on the rich to pay more taxes.
尽管具有极大的影响力，但在法国公众眼里，列维是一个毁誉参半的角色。他因为得到千万欧元级别的报酬而受到了攻击，他的薪酬属于法国高管中最高的。他去年的薪酬是1600万欧元，这在2012年总统大选中成了一个争论的焦点，当时奥朗德对他所说的过高的高管报酬做出抨击，还呼吁富人应缴纳更多税款。