WASHINGTON — Congressional leaders and the Obama administration are close to a crucial budget deal that would modestly increase domestic spending over the next two years, make cuts in social programs and raise the federal borrowing limit. The accord would avert a potentially cataclysmic default on the government's debt and dispense with perhaps the most divisive issue in Washington just before Speaker John A. Boehner is expected to turn over his gavel to Rep. Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.
华盛顿——国会领袖和奥巴马政府即将达成一项至关重要的预算协议。协议将略微增加未来两年的国内开支、削减社会福利项目并提高联邦债务上限。这项协议可以避免政府债务发生灾难性违约的可能性，也可以解决华盛顿分歧最为严重的问题之一。根据预期，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)不久以后就会让位给威斯康星州众议员保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)。
While congressional aides cautioned that the deal was not yet clinched, officials briefed on the negotiations said the emerging accord would increase spending by $80 billion, not including emergency war funding, over two years above the previously agreed-upon budget caps.
尽管国会的幕僚告诫称协议尚未达成，但了解谈判情况的官员透露，未来两年里，即将达成的协议会在之前确定的预算上限的基础上增加800亿美元的开支，不包括紧急战争资金。
Those increases would be offset by cuts in spending on Medicare and Social Security disability benefits, as well as savings or revenue from an array of other programs, including changes to the nation's strategic petroleum reserves.
增加的开支将通过一系列举措来弥补，如削减联邦医疗保险(Medicare)和面向残疾人的社会安全福利开支，以及在其他一系列项目上的节约或收入，包括调整美国的战略石油储备。
If the deal happens, it would represent a significant breakthrough after years of gridlock in Congress, especially on fiscal issues, as each side compromised on a core issue. It also would give Ryan a clean start as speaker and Republicans a reset on trying to convince voters that they can be an effective governing majority.
多年来，国会局势僵持，特别是在财政问题上。如果各方在这一核心议题上取得妥协，进而使协议能够达成，就意味着一个重大突破。协议还会让新任议长瑞安有一个全新的开始，并让共和党人有机会再次尝试让选民相信，他们能成为一个卓有成效的多数党。
The Treasury Department has said that the government would default on its debt if the statutory borrowing limit was not raised by Nov. 3. And a temporary spending measure, which kept the government from shutting down at the start of October, will run out on Dec. 11.
财政部表示，如果不在11月3日之前提高法定债务上限，政府便会出现债务违约。曾在10月伊始避免政府停摆的临时开支举措将于12月11日到期。
The prospective fiscal agreement would solve each of those problems, and theoretically could be one of the last spending fights between President Barack Obama and the Republican-controlled Congress before he leaves office in January 2017. Under the emerging deal, the debt limit would be raised until March 2017.
可能会达成的财政协议将让上述所有问题迎刃而解。理论上，这可能是奥巴马总统在2017年1月下台前，与共和党把持的国会之间的最后几场开支较量之一。根据即将达成的协议，债务上限将被提高，直到2017年3月。
The White House on Monday acknowledged that progress had been made in budget talks among top administration officials and Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill, but said no final deal had been struck.
白宫周一承认，政府高层官员和国会共和党及民主党议员之间的预算谈判取得了进展，但表示尚未达成最终协议。