VERVENA, South Africa — A fading roadside ad for Selala Funeral Service here captures what was, until recently, the essence of South Africa’s AIDS epidemic: “Tombstones Are Available,” it reads. “Buy One, Get One Free.”
南非弗韦纳——当地竖起的一个路边广告牌上，打着褪了色的塞拉拉殡仪服务(Selala Funeral Service)的广告。它正好捕捉到了直到近期的南非艾滋病疫情的本质：“墓碑有售，”上面写道，“买一赠一。”
Not long ago, even places like Vervena, a blip on the roadside northeast of Pretoria, supported several funeral parlors.
在比勒陀利亚的东北方向上，弗韦纳不过是路旁的一片弹丸之地。可在不久以前，就连这样的地方也支撑起了好几家殡仪馆。
But in the last few years, “we’ve managed a miracle,” said Dr. Salim Abdool Karim, one of the country’s leading AIDS researchers. “Undertaking is not a business you want to go into anymore.”
但在过去几年里，“我们创造了奇迹，”南非著名的艾滋病研究专家萨利姆·阿卜杜勒·卡里姆博士(Salim Abdool Karim)说。“殡丧不再是人们向往的职业了。”
As recently as 2008, the AIDS epidemic in South Africa was out of control, hampered by the indifference of President Thabo Mbeki, Nelson Mandela’s successor. Death was everywhere.
直到2008年，南非的艾滋病疫情还处于失控状态。继纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)之后担任总统的塔博·姆贝基(Thabo Mbeki)对此漠不关心，造成了负面作用。到处都笼罩着死亡的阴影。
Now the country has won high praise from world AIDS experts for its response, especially at a time when the Ebola virus has spread in West Africa.
现如今，南非却赢得了全球艾滋病专家对其应对措施的高度赞扬，尤其是在埃博拉病毒肆虐非洲西部的当下。
South Africa has 2.4 million people on antiretroviral drugs, far more than any other country, and adds 100,000 each month. Five years ago, 490 clinics gave out those drugs; now 3,540 do. Only 250 nurses were trained to prescribe them then; now 23,000 are. (The figures, from the end of 2013, are the most recent available.)
南非目前有240万人服用抗逆转录病毒药物，远远超出其他国家，而且每月新增服药人数达10万。五年前，全国有490家诊所分发这类药物；如今增至3540家。可开出抗逆转录病毒药物处方的专业护士也从当年的区区250人跃升至现在的2.3万人。（这些均是截至2013年底的最新数据。）
Mother-to-child transmissions have dropped by 90 percent, new infections have dropped by a third, and life expectancy has increased by almost 10 years.
母婴传播下降了90%，新感染病例减少了三分之一，预期寿命延长了近10年。
“South Africa takes this very seriously and has made major, major progress,” said Michel Sidibé, the executive director of Unaids, the United Nations agency fighting the disease.
“南非很严肃地对待这件事，取得了非常非常重大的进步，”抗击这一疾病的联合国艾滋病规划署(Unaids)的执行主任米歇尔·西迪贝(Michel Sidibé)说。
But experts say much of that progress is now in jeopardy.
不过，专家表示，这样的进步如今受到了威胁。
Though few Americans or even South Africans realize it, the nation owes much of its success to a single United States program, the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or Pepfar, started in 2003 under President George W. Bush. It has poured more than $3 billion into South Africa, largely for training doctors, building clinics and laboratories, and buying drugs.
尽管鲜有美国人、甚至是南非人意识到，但该国的成功很大程度上要归功于美国的一个项目：总统防治艾滋病紧急救援计划（President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief，简称Pepfar）。该项目于2003年由前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)牵头启动，已向南非投入了逾30亿美元（约合185亿元人民币）资金，主要用于训练医护人员、修建诊所和实验室，以及购买药物。
Now that aid pipeline is drying up as the program shifts its limited budget to poorer countries, so the South African government must find hundreds of millions of dollars, even as its national caseload grows rapidly.
随着Pepfar将其有限的预算转移到其他更为贫穷的国家，这条援助渠道正在枯竭。因此，在国内艾滋病防治工作量激增的情况下，南非政府必须找到数亿美元的经费。
The country has six million infected and 370,000 new infections a year. That is seven times as many new infections as in the United States, which has six times the population. Condom use is dropping, according to a new survey, and teenage girls are becoming infected at alarming rates.
南非目前有600万感染人群，每年的新增感染人数为37万。后一项数据是美国的七倍，而该国人口为美国的六分之一。根据一项新民调的结果，这里的安全套使用率在下降，少女的感染人数正在以令人警惕的速率升高。
Still, Dr. Aaron Motsoaledi, the national health minister, says he is confident South Africa will find the money and the political will to fight on.
尽管如此，南非卫生部长阿龙·莫措阿莱迪博士(Aaron Motsoaledi)表示，他确信南非将会找到继续抗击艾滋病的资金与政治意愿。
“It’s a logistical problem,” he said. “Any country in the world would be shaken by putting 2.4 million people on treatment quickly. But it’s not as if we have any choice. If we don’t, they fill up the hospital beds and I.C.U.’s. It’s becoming easier for Treasury to give me what I ask.”
“这是个后勤问题，”他说。“让240万人迅速得到治疗，对哪个国家而言都是惊天动地的大事。但我们没有任何选择。如果我们不行动，他们就会挤满诊所和重症监护区的床位。对我来说，从财政部那里申请经费越来越容易了。”
Clandestine Philanthropy
暗中进行的慈善
Dr. Ian Sanne’s “Right to Care” chain of clinics, which treats 203,000 patients in five provinces, is an example of the fruits of American largess.
伊恩·桑内博士(Ian Sanne)的连锁诊所“Right to Care”是美国慷慨解囊的成果之一。它在南非的五个省份治疗着20.3万名病患。
In a country where public hospitals use hand-scribbled paper records and are infamous for long waits, Right to Care’s Johannesburg headquarters has an electronic medical records system so fast that a nurse can read a tuberculosis test result delivered by a $17,000 GeneXpert machine and click a box that types a prescription directly into the patient’s record. Within 17 seconds, a German-made robotic arm in the clinic’s pharmacy can pluck that drug from the shelf, print a label, and drop it down a chute to be handed to the patient.
在这个国家里，公立医院使用潦草的手写病例，而且有着臭名昭著的漫长等待时间。Right to Care的约翰内斯堡总部拥有一套速度极快的电子病例系统，因此护士可以马上看到1.7万美元的GeneXpert仪器提供的肺结核检查结果，勾选一个方框后就能打出直接进入患者病例的处方。17秒内，诊所药房里德国制造的机器臂就能从架子上找出药物、打印标签并放到病人拿药的管道上。
“We opened in 2004, with 100 percent Pepfar money,” Dr. Sanne said.
“我们2004年开业，100%依靠Pepfar的资助，”桑内说。
Right to Care, like many other AIDS treatment programs here, owes its existence to a decision that year by Pepfar to help South Africa quietly, almost clandestinely, while the Mbeki administration was still in power.
与这里的其他许多艾滋病防治计划一样，Right to Care之所以能存在，要归功于那一年Pepfar做出的决定：姆贝基政府掌权之时，帮助南非要低调，几乎是暗中行事。
In poor countries with broken health care systems, Pepfar paid American medical schools to run its programs. South Africa, by contrast, had excellent doctors and hospitals, but Mr. Mbeki’s health minister, who claimed garlic, beetroot and lemons could cure AIDS, forbade public hospitals to give out AIDS drugs.
在医疗系统糟糕的贫困国家，Pepfar给美国的医学院提供资金来运行自己的项目。相比之下，南非拥有优秀的医护人员和医院，但姆贝基政府的卫生部长宣称大蒜、甜菜根和柠檬可以治愈艾滋病，并且禁止公立医院分发艾滋病药物。
Mr. Mbeki was finally ousted in an internal African National Congress power struggle in 2008; by that time, Harvard researchers calculated, his policies had cost 365,000 lives.
姆贝基最终于2008年在非洲人国民大会（African National Congress，简称ANC）的权力争斗中下台。根据哈佛大学研究人员的估算，到那个时候，他的政策已夺去了36.5万条生命。
In the interim, Pepfar had supported private practitioners like Dr. Sanne, Dr. Hugo Tempelman of the Ndlovu Care Group and Dr. Helen Rees of the Wits Reproductive Health Institute in Johannesburg.
在此期间，Pepfar资助了一些私人执业者，包括桑内、恩德洛武医疗集团(Ndlovu Care Group)的胡戈·滕佩尔曼博士(Hugo Tempelman)，以及约翰内斯堡维茨生殖健康研究所(Wits Reproductive Health Institute)的海伦·里斯博士(Helen Rees)。
“It was a gracious, unpretentious and right thing to do,” said Justice Edwin Cameron, a judge on the country’s highest court who began taking AIDS drugs back when they cost him a third of his salary. “You empowered us and let us get on with it.”
“此举慷慨、真诚而正义，”南非最高法院大法官埃德温·卡梅伦(Edwin Cameron)说。他开始服用艾滋病药物的时候，得花上他三分之一的薪水。“你们赋予了我们力量，并让我们取得进步。”
Because South Africans are sensitive about needing any foreign help, the aid is still given with little fanfare. Many clinics have only one sign of their roots: a modest brass plaque with Pepfar’s globe-and-red-ribbon logo.
由于南非人不愿表现出该国需要外国帮助，援助工作悄无声息地进行着。很多诊所中只有一块标注其来源的指示牌：一块不大的黄铜匾牌，上面印有Pepfar的标识——地球与红丝带。
“I’ve had visiting congressional delegations upset that America gets no recognition for saving lives while China gets visibility for building an airport in Mozambique,” Dr. Rees said.
里斯说，“我令到访的国会代表团感到非常失望，美国没有因为拯救生命的行动获得承认，中国却因为在莫桑比克建了一个机场而得到关注。”
The country received $350 million from Pepfar last year, according to Dr. Eric Goosby, who ran the program until last November. That figure will shrink to $250 million by 2016.
埃里克·古斯比(Eric Goosby)博士表示，Pepfar去年为南非提供了3.5亿美元，古斯比一直负责该项目，直到去年11月。到2016年，这个数字将缩减至2.5亿美元。
“We need to move on to places like Burundi and Cameroon,” Dr. Goosby said.
古斯比表示，“我们接下来需要关注布隆迪、喀麦隆等国家。”
While very poor countries rely almost entirely on donors, South Africa now pays 83 percent of its own costs. But it struggles to do so. Patients overwhelm understaffed public clinics. And as evidence mounts that it is best to put patients on drugs as soon as they test positive rather than waiting until their immune systems falter, the national caseload will triple.
赤贫国家几乎完全依靠捐赠，而南非目前自己支付83%的费用。对于南非来说，做到这一点非常艰难。那些人手不足的公立诊所里挤满了病人。随着越来越多的证据说明，最好在病人检测呈阳性时就给他们用药，而不是等到他们的免疫系统出问题后再用药，全国诊所的工作量将增加两倍。
Dr. Sanne complained bitterly about cutbacks, Dr. Goosby said, and got “bridge money” to prevent layoffs from his well-trained staff.
古斯比表示，桑内对削减资助的举措感到极其不满，他拿到了“过渡资金”，以免那些受过良好训练的员工被解雇。
“Our stay of execution,” Dr. Sanne said, laughing.
桑内笑着说道，“这相当于缓期行刑。”
‘Corruption and Pilferage’
‘腐败与偷窃’
Closing private clinics can have dangerous consequences. When one Durban hospital abruptly went bankrupt after its Pepfar grant expired, its 4,000 H.I.V. patients were told to report to public clinics near their homes — places that many H.I.V. patients avoid for fear of being spotted and shunned by their neighbors.
关闭私人诊所会带来危险后果。德班一家医院在Pepfar停止拨款后，突然倒闭，那里的4000名HIV携带者被告知前往家附近的公立诊所治疗。但很多HIV携带者会避免到这种诊所诊治，因为他们担心被邻居看到，遭到疏远。
A Harvard-sponsored survey found that nearly 20 percent of those 4,000 patients did not renew their prescriptions at their local clinics.
哈佛大学资助的一项研究发现，在这4000名病人中，20%的病人没有在当地诊所继续领药。
In theory, because Pepfar pays for the care of about a million South African patients, a similar dropout rate nationally would mean that 200,000 patients were not in care and were at risk of developing drug-resistant strains, said Matthew M. Kavanagh, the author of a study of South Africa for Health GAP, an American medical advocacy group.
马修斯·M·卡瓦纳(Matthew M. Kavanagh)表示，鉴于Pepfar为大约100万名南非病人支付治疗费用，这样的退出率理论上意味着，全国有20万名病人无法获得治疗，他们体内可能会产生耐药菌株。卡瓦纳曾为美国医疗倡导组织“全球健康获得项目”(Health GAP)写了一篇有关南非的论文。
Dr. Motsoaledi, South Africa’s health minister since 2009, has won high praise from AIDS experts and even from advocacy groups that are often at odds with him.
自2009年起担任南非卫生部长的莫措阿莱迪获得了艾滋病专家，以及经常与他意见不一致的倡导组织的高度赞扬。
Asked if there was any chance that the United States, having received little credit for helping from 2004 on, would now be vilified for pulling out, he said: “No, I personally will never allow that. Because this would never have happened without America.”
美国自2004年开始提供帮助，但很少受到好评。当被问及美国是否可能因为撤销资助而遭到诋毁时，他说，“不会，我个人绝不允许发生这种事情。因为没有美国的帮助，我们不会取得现在的成就。”
How well the country can do on its own remains to be seen. It has world-class doctors; the first heart transplant was done in Cape Town in 1967. But public hospitals and the drug supply chain are overseen by local governments, where corruption and incompetence are common.
至于南非自食其力之后表现如何，目前没人知道。南非有世界级的医生；第一例心脏移植手术就是1967年在开普敦完成的。但公立医院和药物供应链由地方政府掌控着，而地方政府通常腐败无能。
The country was recently scandalized by the death of “Baby Ikho,” a chubby 1-year-old who was hospitalized with simple pneumonia but died slowly because the hospital administrator ordered oxygen only after it ran out.
最近，“婴儿伊霍”(Ikho)的死亡震惊全国。胖乎乎的伊霍只有1岁，因为普通肺炎入院治疗，但最终慢慢死去，因为医院管理人员在氧气用完之后才进行订购。
The doctor who reported the death, blaming the administrator, was fired for doing so.
那名曝光婴儿死亡事件，并指责医院管理人员的医生被开除。
Last year, Section 27, a health advocacy group, surveyed the country’s pharmacies and found that 20 percent had sometimes run out of drugs for AIDS or tuberculosis.
去年，健康倡导组织Section 27对该国药房进行了调查，发现20%的药房中的艾滋病或肺结核药物有时会缺货。
Mark Heywood, Section 27’s executive director, said the problem was theft from government warehouses by local officials. Some of those officials stayed in office even while facing criminal charges because they supported President Jacob Zuma’s wing of the deeply factionalized A.N.C., he said.
Section 27的执行主任马克·海伍德(Mark Heywood)表示，问题在于地方官员盗窃政府仓库。他表示，尽管面临刑事指控，其中一些官员仍继续任职，只因为他们在深度分裂的ANC中支持雅各布·祖马总统(Jacob Zuma)一派。
Dr. Motsoaledi agreed that those warehouses were sites of “corruption and pilferage” and said that he was making hospitals order directly from manufacturers or from one national warehouse. Corrupt officials would not be protected by connections, even to the president, he said.
莫措阿莱迪同意这些仓库是“腐败及偷盗”的温床的说法，并表示，他在让医院直接从生产商或一个国家仓库订购药品。他表示，腐败官员不会因为有关系而受到保护，与总统有关系也不行。
“My hands are not tied by any faction,” he said. “We will destroy them.”
“我不受任何派别的限制，”他说。“我们会摧毁他们。”
His greater worry, he said, was that forces outside the country would push up the prices of newer AIDS drugs by preventing the import of generic versions. Some South Africans still receive older drugs no longer prescribed in wealthier countries.
他表示，自己更担心的是，国外势力会阻止南非进口仿制药，进而推高较新的艾滋病药物的价格。一些南非人仍在使用旧药，而富有国家已不再给病人开这些药了。
In January, Doctors Without Borders released documents it obtained outlining a secret campaign planned by a Washington lobbying firm hired by the pharmaceutical industry. It proposed forming a fake grass-roots organization called “Forward South Africa” advocating stronger patent laws against generics.
今年1月，无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)公布了该组织获得的文件，这些文件概述了华盛顿一家游说公司策划的秘密行动，这家受雇于制药行业的公司提议成立一个名为“推动南非发展”(Forward South Africa)的虚假草根组织，倡导南非强化专利法，以打击仿制药。