WASHINGTON — President Obama expanded sanctions against Russia on Thursday, blacklisting a bank and several wealthy businessmen with close ties to President Vladimir V. Putin, as the United States struggled to forestall further Russian incursions into Ukraine.
华盛顿——本周四，在美国竭力阻止俄罗斯进一步侵占乌克兰领土之际，奥巴马总统扩大了对俄罗斯的制裁范围，和俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)关系密切的一家银行及几名富商被列入了制裁名单。
Among those targeted were Sergei B. Ivanov, the president’s chief of staff; Gennady N. Timchenko, a billionaire investor with links to Mr. Putin; and Yuri V. Kovalchuk, whom the administration described as the personal banker for Russian leaders, including the president.
被制裁的对象包括普京的办公厅主任谢尔盖·B·伊万诺夫(Sergei B. Ivanov)；和普京有关系的亿万富翁兼投资人根纳季·N·季姆琴科(Gennady N. Timchenko)；普京及其他俄罗斯领导人的私人银行家尤里·V·科瓦利丘克(Yuri V. Kovalchuk)。
Mr. Obama also opened the door to more sweeping measures against core parts of the Russian economy, including the oil and natural gas industries, which account for much of Russia’s exports. He said the actions could disrupt the global economy, but might be necessary because of what he described as menacing movements by the Russian military near eastern and southern Ukraine.
奥巴马还启动了更具影响力的制裁措施来打击俄罗斯经济的核心行业，在俄罗斯出口业务中占大头的石油和天然气行业也被包括在内。他说这些行动也许会干扰全球经济，不过，由于俄罗斯在乌克兰东部和南部附近进行了他称为威胁性的军队调动，这么做也许是有必要的。
Administration officials insisted that the new sanctions would have more bite than the initial ones Mr. Obama announced on Monday. But it remains unclear whether they will be enough to put a brake on Mr. Putin, who brushed aside the previous measures and moved swiftly to annex Crimea.
奥巴马政府官员坚持认为，新一轮制裁比奥巴马本周一宣布的制裁措施的杀伤力更大。不过，这些措施是否足以制止普京的步伐尚不得而知，后者罔顾之前的制裁措施迅速吞并了克里米亚。
Responding almost immediately, Russia barred nine prominent American officials from entering the country, including the speaker of the House, John A. Boehner; the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada; Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona; and three close advisers to Mr. Obama.
俄罗斯几乎立刻做出了回应，禁止九名美国知名高官进入俄罗斯，其中包括众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)；参议院民主党领袖、内华达州参议员亨利·里德(Harry Reid)；亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)；以及其他三名和奥巴马关系密切的顾问。
Mr. Obama, speaking from the South Lawn of the White House, said Russia’s aggressive moves toward Ukraine had only escalated since the referendum in Crimea on Sunday.
奥巴马在白宫南草坪发言称，自克里米亚在周日举行公投以来，俄罗斯对乌克兰的挑衅举动有增无减。
 “These are all choices that the Russian government has made,” he said, “and because of these choices, the United States is today moving, as we said we would, to impose additional costs on Russia.”
他说，“这就是俄罗斯政府做出的选择，因为这些选择，美国今天要履行承诺，让俄罗斯付出额外的代价。”
The hastily arranged statement, delivered with the presidential helicopter idling behind Mr. Obama before he left for a speech on the economy and a Democratic Party fund-raising event in Florida, underscored how the White House has raced to keep up with the rush of events in Ukraine.
此次匆匆安排的发言突显了白宫一直在加紧跟上乌克兰事件急促转变的步调，奥巴马发言时，总统专用直升飞机就在他身后待命，他将在随后赶去参加某场关于经济的演讲和佛罗里达州的民主党筹款活动。
On Monday, Mr. Obama announced measures against a number of Russian officials while saying he would calibrate the pressure campaign to respond to Mr. Putin’s actions. But a senior administration official said it became clear within 24 hours, with Mr. Putin’s defiant speech to the Russian Parliament and dismissive statements by members of his government, that the United States would have to do more.
周一，奥巴马宣布了针对若干俄罗斯官员的制裁措施，同时，他表示自己会根据普京的举动调整美方的施压行动。不过，奥巴马政府的一名高官说，鉴于在随后24小时里，普京面对俄罗斯议会两院(Russian Parliament)发表了盛气凌人的演讲，其政府成员则发表了藐视美方的声明，有一点已变得相当明显，即美国必须采取更多行动。
“They were exulting in their nationalistic way,” said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the administration’s internal deliberations. “So we moved from officials to cronies. These are Putin’s money people.”
这名官员说，“他们在为自己的民族主义行径欢欣鼓舞。所以，我们把制裁对象从官员转向了普京的亲信。这些人是给普京管钱的。”这名官员以他的话涉及政府内部讨论意见为由，要求匿名发言。
The administration was also prodded by signs that the Russian military had moved troops into positions that could threaten southern and eastern Ukraine. While Mr. Obama has ruled out direct military involvement, another senior administration official told reporters that the Pentagon was studying whether to provide communications equipment and other nonlethal assistance to the Ukrainian military.
奥巴马政府的行动还受到了以下迹象的推动，那就是俄军已把部队调遣到了可能威胁乌克兰南部和东部地区的位置。虽然奥巴马排除了美方以直接军事手段介入此事的可能性，不过另一名政府高官对记者说，美国国防部正在研究是否给乌克兰军方提供通讯设备和其他非致命性的援助。
“The latest round of sanctions are surgical, experts said: designed to hit the wallets of individuals with close ties to Mr. Putin, rather than to damage the broader Russian economy.
“专家们表示，最近一轮制裁属于精确打击：其目的在于打击和普京关系密切的个人的财富，而不是破坏覆盖面更广的俄罗斯经济。”
“The dollar figure is not big,” said Anders Aslund, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. “But these people are really close to Putin.”
位于华盛顿的彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)高级研究员安德斯·阿斯伦德(Anders Aslund)说，“被制裁的美元数额不大。不过这些人真的和普京走得很近。”
If Europe were to join the United States in targeting Russian individuals, and if Washington were to go after Russia’s energy sector, “That would have a real economic effect,” he said.
他说，如果欧洲打算加入美国的行列，把个别俄罗斯人列为制裁对象，如果美国政府打算制裁俄罗斯的能源行业，“那将会造成真正的经济影响。”
The list announced by the Treasury Department included 16 senior Russian government officials and heads of state enterprises, some of whom have longstanding ties to Mr. Putin. Several of these people had already been sanctioned by the European Union.
美国财政部(Treasury Department)宣布的制裁名单中包括了16名俄罗斯政府官员和俄国企负责人，其中的一些人和普京素有交情。当中有几人已受到欧盟的制裁。
New to the list were four oligarchs who have amassed vast empires through their ties to the government. In addition to Mr. Timchenko and Mr. Kovalchuk, they are Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, billionaire brothers who were awarded an estimated $7 billion in contracts for the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.
首次出现在制裁名单上的是四名寡头，他们通过与政府之间的关系建立起了庞大的帝国。除季姆琴科和科瓦利丘克外的另外两人是亿万富翁阿尔卡季(Arkady)和鲍里斯·罗滕贝格(Boris Rotenberg)兄弟。他们获得了价值约70亿美元（约合436亿元人民币）的索契冬奥会合同。
The Treasury also designated Bank Rossiya, the 17th-largest Russian bank, of which Mr. Kovalchuk is the largest shareholder. A senior official said that would pinch Mr. Putin and his friends because Rossiya would no longer be able to conduct transactions in dollars and would find its assets frozen in correspondent accounts in European banks.
财政部还将俄罗斯排名第17位的俄罗斯银行(Bank Rossiya)列入了制裁名单，科瓦利丘克是该银行最大的股东。一名高官称此举会刺痛普京和他的朋友，因为俄罗斯银行将无法再用美元进行交易，该银行在欧洲各银行相应账户里的资产也会被冻结。
At least for now, though, a senior American official said he did not expect the European Union to target Russian business executives because it would require additional legal criteria. During Vice President Joseph R. Biden’s trip to Poland and the Baltic states this week, he encountered little desire for broader sanctions against Russia, even in countries with a long history of being subjugated by their Russian neighbor.
然而，一名美国高官表示，至少目前他认为欧盟不会将俄罗斯的企业高管列为制裁对象，因为这么做需要额外的法律标准。在本周访问波兰和波罗的海国家期间，几乎没人向副总统约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden)表示希望扩大对俄罗斯的制裁范围，即便是那些长期受制于邻国俄罗斯的国家。
Mr. Obama said more sweeping sanctions were not his “preferred outcome,” and analysts said they did not expect him to impose them. Under a new executive order, he could target Russian industrial sectors, including energy, engineering, metals and mining, and financial services.
奥巴马称范围更广的制裁并非他“希望的结果”，一些分析人士称没想到奥巴马会实施这些制裁。根据一项新的行政命令，奥巴马可以将俄罗斯的工业部门，其中包括能源、工程、金属和采矿以及金融服务列为制裁对象。
“Russia must know that further escalation will only isolate it further from the international community,” he said.
“俄罗斯必须明白，制裁进一步升级只会让它在国际社会进一步孤立，”他说。
The economic calculus favors Washington, analysts said: Even significantly tougher sanctions — the kind applied to countries like Iran — would probably have only a muted effect on the American economy because of the modest size of the Russian economy and its limited trade ties with the United States.
分析人士称，经济方面的考量有利于美国：即使再大幅度加重制裁力度，好比对伊朗等国实施的那种制裁，对美国经济的影响可能也比较有限，因为俄罗斯经济规模较小，其与美国的贸易联系也有限。