The following recounts an incident in 2004 that advocates of research into U.F.O.s have said is the kind of event worthy of more investigation, and that was studied by a Pentagon program that investigated U.F.O.s. Experts caution that earthly explanations often exist for such incidents, and that not knowing the explanation does not mean that the event has interstellar origins.
本文详述的一起2004年的事件，曾被不明飞行物(UFO)研究倡导人士认为值得展开进一步的调查，也曾由五角大楼的一个UFO调查项目进行研究。专家提醒，此类事件往往可以在地球范围内找到解释，目前暂时无解并不意味事件的起因就来自地球之外。
Cmdr. David Fravor and Lt. Cmdr. Jim Slaight were on a routine training mission 100 miles out into the Pacific when the radio in each of their F/A-18F Super Hornets crackled: An operations officer aboard the U.S.S. Princeton, a Navy cruiser, wanted to know if they were carrying weapons.
当时大卫·弗拉沃中校(Cmdr. David Fravor)和吉姆·斯莱特少校(Lt. Cmdr. Jim Slaight)正在100英里（约合160公里）外的太平洋上空执行常规训练任务，他们各自驾驶的F/A-18F“超级大黄蜂”战斗机内的无线电响了起来：美国海军巡洋舰“普林斯顿号”(U.S.S. Princeton)上的一名作战官想要知道他们是否携带了武器。
“Two CATM-9s,” Commander Fravor replied, referring to dummy missiles that could not be fired. He had not been expecting any hostile exchanges off the coast of San Diego that November afternoon in 2004.
“两枚CATM-9，”弗拉沃回答道，他指的是两枚无法发射的假导弹。那是2004年11月的一个下午，他没有想到在圣迭戈沿海地区会与任何敌对力量发生交火。
Commander Fravor, in a recent interview with The New York Times, recalled what happened next. Some of it is captured in a video made public by officials with a Pentagon program that investigated U.F.O.s.
在近期与纽约时报的采访中，弗拉沃回忆了接下来发生的事情。部分回忆在五角大楼UFO调查项目官员公开的一个视频中有记录。
“Well, we’ve got a real-world vector for you,” the radio operator said, according to Commander Fravor. For two weeks, the operator said, the Princeton had been tracking mysterious aircraft. The objects appeared suddenly at 80,000 feet, and then hurtled toward the sea, eventually stopping at 20,000 feet and hovering. Then they either dropped out of radar range or shot straight back up.
“我们有一个真实世界矢量给你们，”弗拉沃记得当时无线电操作员说。对方说两周以来普林斯顿号一直在追踪神秘飞行器。这些物体突然出现在8万英尺的空中，接着朝着大海猛冲下来，最终停在2万英尺的空中盘旋。随后，他们要么会离开雷达的侦测范围，要么会笔直地急速回升。
The radio operator instructed Commander Fravor and Commander Slaight, who has given a similar account, to investigate.
斯莱特也给出了相同描述，操作员指示他们前往调查。
The two fighter planes headed toward the objects. The Princeton alerted them as they closed in, but when they arrived at “merge plot” with the object — naval aviation parlance for being so close that the Princeton could not tell which were the objects and which were the fighter jets — neither Commander Fravor nor Commander Slaight could see anything at first. There was nothing on their radars, either.
两架战斗机向着那个物体开去。普林斯顿号在他们接近时曾发出提醒，但当他们到达了与物体发生航迹合并——海军航空用语，指的是不明物体和战斗机的距离已经近到普林斯顿号无法分辨——的位置时，弗拉沃和斯莱特起初什么都看不见，雷达也没有任何显示。
Then, Commander Fravor looked down to the sea. It was calm that day, but the waves were breaking over something that was just below the surface. Whatever it was, it was big enough to cause the sea to churn.
接着，弗拉沃向海上望去。当天无风，但在海面下有一个东西劈开了波浪。不论那是什么，都已经大到足以使海面翻涌。
Hovering 50 feet above the churn was an aircraft of some kind — whitish — that was around 40 feet long and oval in shape. The craft was jumping around erratically, staying over the wave disturbance but not moving in any specific direction, Commander Fravor said. The disturbance looked like frothy waves and foam, as if the water were boiling.
在波涛上方50英尺处漂浮着一个像某种飞行器的物体——颜色发白——大约有40英尺长，呈椭圆形。弗拉沃说飞行器在不规律地跳动旋转，停留在翻滚着的波浪上方，但并没有朝着某个特定方向前进。翻涌的海面看上去像是白色的波浪和泡沫，就像烧开的水。
Commander Fravor began a circular descent to get a closer look, but as he got nearer the object began ascending toward him. It was almost as if it were coming to meet him halfway, he said.
为了更近地观察，弗拉沃开始盘旋下降，但随着他的接近，这个物体开始朝着他上升。他说，就好像是它要到半路来见他。
Commander Fravor abandoned his slow circular descent and headed straight for the object.
弗拉沃放弃了缓慢的盘旋下降，直接朝那个物体飞去。
But then the object peeled away. “It accelerated like nothing I’ve ever seen,” he said in the interview. He was, he said, “pretty weirded out.”
但接下来，这个物体却偏离了航线。“这样的加速是我从来没见过的，”他在采访中说道。他说当时他“相当困惑”。
The two fighter jets then conferred with the operations officer on the Princeton and were told to head to a rendezvous point 60 miles away, called the cap point, in aviation parlance.
两架战斗机随后与普林斯顿号的作战官协商，并被告知要前往60英里外的一个会合点，航空术语称空中战斗巡逻点(cap point)。
They were en route and closing in when the Princeton radioed again. Radar had again picked up the strange aircraft.
在前往途中，普林斯顿号再次来电。那个奇怪的飞行器再次出现在了雷达上。
“Sir, you won’t believe it,” the radio operator said, “but that thing is at your cap point.”
“长官，你会觉得难以置信，”无线电操作员说，“那东西现在在你们的巡逻点。”
“We were at least 40 miles away, and in less than a minute this thing was already at our cap point,” Commander Fravor, who has since retired from the Navy, said in the interview.
“我们离巡逻点至少还有40英里，而这个东西用了不到一分钟就到那了，”现在已从海军退役的弗拉沃在采访中说道。
By the time the two fighter jets arrived at the rendezvous point, the object had disappeared.
等到两架战斗机抵达会合点的时候，该物体已经消失了。
The fighter jets returned to the Nimitz, where everyone on the ship had learned of Commander Fravor’s encounter and was making fun of him.
当他们返回尼米兹号航空母舰(Nimitz)时，船上已经听闻弗拉沃经历的人还笑话了他。
Commander Fravor’s superiors did not investigate further and he went on with his career, deploying to the Persian Gulf to provide air support to ground troops during the Iraq war. But he does remember what he said that evening to a fellow pilot who asked him what he thought he had seen.
弗拉沃的上级并未深入调查，他也继续着自己的军人生涯，在伊拉克战争中被派遣至波斯湾，为地面部队提供空中支援。但他清楚地记得他在那个晚上给一位飞行员同事的回答，同事曾问他，他认为自己看到的是什么。
“I have no idea what I saw,” Commander Fravor replied to the pilot. “It had no plumes, wings or rotors and outran our F-18s.”
“我不知道我看见的是什么，”弗拉沃答道。“它没有排气、机翼或旋翼，但比我们的F-18要快。”
But, he added, “I want to fly one.”
但是，他还说，“我也想开开。”