WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court on Wednesday continued its abolition of limits on election spending, striking down a decades-old cap on the total amount any individual can contribute to candidates in a two-year election cycle. The ruling, issued near the start of a campaign season, will change and very likely increase the already large role money plays in American politics. 
华盛顿——周三，最高法院继续废除针对竞选开支的限制，取消了十年来对个人在两年选举周期内捐助候选人的总金额限制。这项在选举季即将开始时做出的裁决将会改变，很可能是增加，金钱在美国政坛业已巨大的影响力。
The 5-to-4 decision, with the court’s more conservative members in the majority, echoed Citizens United, the 2010 decision that struck down limits on independent campaign spending by corporations and unions. Wednesday’s decision seemed to alter campaign finance law in subtle but important ways, notably by limiting the kinds of reasons the government can offer to justify laws said to restrict First Amendment rights in the context of campaign contributions.
最高法院以5比4的结果做出前述裁决，法院中保守派法官占多数，这些情况都与“联合公民”(Citizens United)一案的判决类似，该判决是在2010年做出的，法院决定取消对公司和工会独立竞选活动开支的限制。周三的判决似乎对竞选财务法做出了微妙但重要的修改，尤其是对政府可以用来证明相关法律合理性的理由种类进行了限制，据称，这些法律因规竞选献金上限而限制了第一修正案(First Amendment)规定的权利。
The court’s 88-page decision reflected sharply different visions of the meaning of the First Amendment and the role of government in regulating elections, with the majority deeply skeptical of government efforts to control participation in politics, and the minority saying that such oversight was needed to ensure a functioning democracy.
法院公布的88页裁决书反映了有关第一修正案含义及政府在监管选举方面的角色的一些截然不同的愿景，多数法官对政府限制民众参与政治活动的举措深感怀疑，少数法官则称，为了确保民主制度的运转，需要政府进行监督。
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., writing for four justices in the controlling opinion, said the overall limits could not survive First Amendment scrutiny. “There is no right in our democracy more basic,” he wrote, “than the right to participate in electing our political leaders.” In a dissent from the bench, Justice Stephen G. Breyer called the majority opinion a disturbing development that raised the overall contribution ceiling to “the number infinity.”
代表四名法官撰写主要意见书的首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)表示，对献金总额的限制无法通过第一修正案的审查。“在我们的民主制度中，”他写道，“参与选举政治领导人的权利是最基本的权利。”与法院意见不同，大法官史蒂芬·G·布雷耶(Stephen G. Breyer)称主要意见书将献金总额上限提高到了“无限大”，因此令人不安。
“If the court in Citizens United opened a door,” he said, “today’s decision may well open a floodgate.”
“如果说法院在审理联合公民一案时打开了一扇门，”他说，“今天的裁决很可能相当于打开一道泄洪闸。”
Such oral dissents are rare, and they signal deep disagreements. But both Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Breyer also noted from the bench that the other side’s arguments were well presented.
此类口头异议非常少见，说明法官之间存在严重分歧。不过，首席大法官罗伯茨和大法官布雷耶都在法院指出，对方很好地阐述了自己的论点。
Wednesday’s decision did not affect familiar base limits on contributions from individuals to candidates, currently $2,600 per candidate in primary and general elections. But it said that overall limits of $48,600 by individuals every two years for contributions to all federal candidates violated the First Amendment, as did separate aggregate limits on contributions to political party committees, currently $74,600. In his written opinion, Justice Breyer said Wednesday’s decision would allow “a single individual to contribute millions of dollars to a political party or to a candidate’s campaign.” He was joined by Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.
周三的裁决没有影响到人们熟知的一些基本限制——目前，个人在初选和大选中向每名候选人捐助的资金不得超过2600美元（约合1.6万元人民币）。但裁决称，个人对所有联邦候选人的两年捐款上限目前为4.86万美元，对政党委员会的两年捐款上限为7.46万美元，这些规定违反了第一修正案。布雷耶法官在书面意见书中表示，周三的裁决将允许“个人向政党或候选人的竞选团队捐助数百万美元”。大法官鲁思·巴德·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)、索尼娅·索托马约尔(Sonia Sotomayor)和埃琳娜·卡根(Elena Kagan)与布雷耶观点一致。
The case, McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission, No. 12-536, was brought by Shaun McCutcheon, an Alabama businessman, and the Republican National Committee.
编号12-536的“麦卡沃恩诉联邦选举委员会案”(McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission)是由阿拉巴马州商人肖恩·麦卡沃恩(Shaun McCutcheon)和共和党全国委员会(Republican National Committee)提起的。
In an interview last fall, Mr. McCutcheon said his goal was to encourage the adoption of conservative principles. “To me,” he said, “being a conservative means smaller government and more freedom.”
在去年秋天的一次采访中，麦卡沃恩表示，他的目的是促使当局采纳保守主义原则。他说，“在我看来，采纳保守原则意味着更小的政府和更多的自由。”
Chief Justice Roberts said the core purpose of the First Amendment was to protect political speech from government interference, even if many people might welcome it.
首席大法官罗伯茨表示，第一修正案的核心目的是保护政治表达免受政府干预，尽管有许多人可能会欢迎这种干预。
“Money in politics may at times seem repugnant to some, but so, too, does much of what the First Amendment vigorously protects,” the chief justice wrote. “If the First Amendment protects flag burning, funeral protests and Nazi parades — despite the profound offense such spectacles cause — it surely protects political campaign speech despite popular opposition.”
首席大法官写道，“金钱卷入政治，有时可能会让一些人感到厌恶，然而，第一修正案大力保护的其他许多对象同样会引发这种厌恶。既然第一修正案保护人们焚烧国旗、在葬礼上抗议和举行纳粹(Nazi)游行的权利，尽管这些场景会令人深为反感，那它当然应该不顾众人的反对，保护人们在政治选举中进行表达的权利。”
The decision chipped away at the central distinction drawn by the Supreme Court in Buckley v. Valeo, its seminal 1976 campaign finance decision. Independent spending, the court said in Buckley, is political speech protected by the First Amendment. But contributions may be capped, the court said then, in the name of preventing corruption. The court added in passing that aggregate contribution limits were a “quite modest restraint upon protected political activity” that “serves to prevent evasion” of the base limits.
最高法院在1976年的“巴克利诉瓦莱奥案”(Buckley v. Valeo)一案做出了影响深远的政治选举捐款裁决，此次裁决弱化了巴克利案划定的核心区别。最高法院在巴克利案中裁定，独立支出属于受第一修正案保护的政治表达。不过，法院随后又表示，为了预防腐败，也许不妨给政治捐款设定上限。在通过前述捐款总额上限时，法院还表示，这是一种“对受保护政治活动实施的十分温和的限制”，“目的是防止规避”基本限制。