KIEV, Ukraine — With fighting intensifying in eastern Ukraine and the White House weighing whether to send arms to bolster the government’s forces, Western leaders embarked on a broad diplomatic effort on Thursday aimed at ending a conflict that has strained relations with Russia.
乌克兰基辅——乌克兰东部的战事愈演愈烈，白宫也在考虑是否要输送武器来支持乌克兰政府军。在这种情况下，西方领导人于周四开始进行一项广泛的外交努力，希望能结束这场导致他们与俄罗斯关系紧张的冲突。
Yet, the prospects of achieving a new peace plan remained clouded by deep suspicions of Moscow, born of its history of dissembling about its intentions and operations in Ukraine, Western diplomats and Ukrainian officials said.
然而，多名西方外交官和乌克兰官员表示，由于俄罗斯一贯掩饰自己在乌克兰的意图和活动，由此生发的西方对莫斯科的深切怀疑，给达成一项新和平计划的前景蒙上了一层阴影。
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President François Hollande of France traveled to the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, on Thursday for talks with President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine, officials from the two countries said.
德法两国官员表示，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)于周四前往乌克兰首都基辅，与该国总统彼得罗·O·波罗申科(Petro O. Poroshenko)进行了会谈。
On Friday, Ms. Merkel and Mr. Hollande are to continue to Moscow, to meet with President Vladimir V. Putin to discuss a new initiative from the Kremlin to end the fighting in Ukraine, which has killed more than 5,000 people and displaced hundreds of thousands over the past year. Mr. Hollande said that he and Ms. Merkel would present an initiative to end the fighting and guarantee the “full territorial integrity” of Ukraine.
周五，默克尔和奥朗德将继续前往莫斯科会见俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)，就克里姆林宫提出的旨在结束乌克兰战事的一项新倡议进行商讨。过去一年中，这场争夺已造成5000多人死亡，数十万人流离失所。奥朗德表示，他和默克尔将拿出自己的提议，从而在结束战事的同时保证乌克兰“领土的充分完整”。
The German and French moves were announced as Secretary of State John Kerry arrived in Kiev for high-level talks. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. prepared for parallel consultations on Friday with European leaders in Brussels.
德法两国的行动是在美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)抵达基辅进行高层会晤的同时宣布的。美国副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)也准备周五在布鲁塞尔与欧州国家领导人举行类似会谈。
The deep Western distrust of Moscow has been heightened by what diplomats say is the Kremlin's role in the arming, financing and guiding of rebel separatists in the current surge in fighting in eastern Ukraine, even after helping forge a cease-fire in September. As it did in late summer, they say, the Kremlin is stepping in to end fighting that it instigated, but only after achieving its objective of expanding rebel-controlled territory.
外交官们表示，在乌克兰东部正在急剧升级的战事中，克里姆林宫为反对派分裂分子提供了武器、资助和指导，就连去年9月帮助双方达成停火协议之后也未中止，西方对莫斯科的不信任由此进一步加深。他们认为，与夏末的情况相似，克里姆林宫之所以要出面终结自己煽动的这场争夺，是为了首先达到自己的目的——扩大叛军所控制的领土的范围。
Since the accord was signed, the Russian-backed separatists have taken control of about 200 square miles in the east, including the airport at Donetsk, and they are currently threatening Debaltseve, a town that sits astride a critical rail hub.
上次的协议签订以来，由俄罗斯支持的分裂分子又控制了东部大约200平方英里的地区，其中包括顿涅茨克的机场。眼下，他们正在逼近德巴尔切夫，而一个重要的铁路枢纽就坐落于此。
Mr. Kerry did not mince words in a news conference Thursday in Kiev, laying blame for the renewed violence in eastern Ukraine at the door of the Kremlin. “We talked about the largest threat that Ukraine faces today, and that is Russia’s continued aggression in the east,” he said after meeting with Ukrainian officials.
周四，克里在基辅的新闻发布会上并没有拐弯抹角，而是直接指责克里姆林宫应该对乌克兰东部新一轮的暴力冲突负责。在与乌克兰官员会晤后，他表示，“我们谈到了乌克兰目前面临的最大威胁，那就是俄罗斯对乌克兰东部的不断侵犯。”
He called on Moscow and the separatists to “support and honor the commitment they made to implement a cease-fire, to pull back heavy weapons and troops” and to respect Ukraine’s international border with Russia.
他呼吁莫斯科和分裂分子“支持并尊重他们做出的实施停火协议的承诺，撤回重型武器和军队”，尊重乌克兰与俄罗斯的国际边界线。
The accelerated Western diplomatic efforts came as the Obama administration was considering whether to send antitank missiles, battlefield radars, reconnaissance drones and other arms to help Ukraine’s beleaguered forces stave off attacks by the separatists and to build pressure on Moscow to seek a political settlement.
正当西方加紧外交努力的同时，奥巴马政府也在考虑是否要输送反坦克导弹、战场雷达、无人侦察机等武器，来帮助陷入困境的乌克兰政府军抵御分裂分子的袭击，并对莫斯科施加寻求政治解决方案的压力。
The challenge is to restore the peace agreement, which was negotiated in Minsk, Belarus, in September and has been repeatedly violated, more seriously by the separatists and Russia.
其中的挑战在于，如何恢复去年9月于白俄罗斯明斯克商定的和平协议。该协议被多次违反，而分裂分子和俄罗斯的违约情况更为严重。
Russia has sent tanks, rockets and other heavy weapons to the separatists, and has sent about 1,000 of its own troops there to help the rebels with their offensive, according to NATO estimates.
据北约(NATO)估计，俄罗斯给分裂分子送去了坦克、火箭弹和其他一些重武器，还派遣了大约1000名俄罗斯军人前去协助叛军发动攻势。
The assessment of some senior Western officials is that Mr. Putin is trying to supplant the Minsk agreement with a new arrangement that would expand the Kremlin’s influence over Ukraine and would give the separatists a larger, and more economically viable, enclave.
西方一些高级官员估计，普京正在尝试用新的安排取代明斯克协议。新安排将扩大克里姆林宫对乌克兰的影响，并让分裂分子获得一片面积更大、经济上更能自给的势力范围。
Mr. Kerry, who announced $16.4 million in humanitarian assistance for eastern Ukraine, plans to press for a new cease-fire.
克里宣布将向乌克兰东部提供价值1640万美元（约合1亿元人民币）的人道主义援助，并计划推动达成新的停火协议。
In a joint appearance with Mr. Poroshenko, Mr. Kerry said that France, Germany and the United States were united in supporting a peaceful resolution to the conflict. And he called for Russia to agree to a cease-fire.
与波罗申科一同现身时，克里表示，法国、德国和美国一致支持和平解决冲突。他还呼吁俄罗斯接受停火。
“Our choice is a peaceful solution, but Russia needs to make its choices,” Mr. Kerry said.
“我们的选择是和平解决，但俄罗斯需要做出自己的选择，”克里说。
“There must be an immediate commitment now to a real cease-fire, which is not just a piece of paper,” he added, noting Moscow’s previous violations of cease-fires.
“现在必须立即致力于实现真正的停火，而不仅仅是一纸空文，”他接着说。克里指的是俄罗斯之前多次违反停火协议的行为。
The public talks are accompanied by an active campaign of background leaks about competing proposals being offered by Moscow and the Western governments.
公开谈话进行的同时，莫斯科和西方政府还在进行一场积极的宣传活动。双方均在幕后泄露各自的提议，但其内容互不相容。
The two European leaders are coming to Moscow in response to a lengthy proposal that Mr. Putin sent them this week, according to European diplomats, speaking anonymously because official statements have to come from their capitals. It was not an invitation to Moscow, the diplomats said, but rather ideas sketched out on ending the confrontation. They declined to provide details.
几名欧洲外交官称，普京本周给德法两国领导人发送了一份篇幅很长的提议，作为回应，二人将前往莫斯科。因为各自的国家尚未发表官方声明，这些外交官要求不具名。他们说那份提议并未邀请相关人士前往莫斯科，只是概述了一些结束对抗的意见。他们拒绝透露进一步的细节。
The French and German governments said they would present their own proposal to end the fighting but did not give details. In his news conference, Mr. Kerry said that he was still reviewing the plan but said he welcomed the European leaders’ decision to travel to Moscow.
法国和德国政府表示也将拿出自己的结束战事的建议，但并未给出细节。克里在新闻发布会上称自己还在审度该方案，但对欧洲领导人前往莫斯科的决定表示欢迎。
One Western diplomat sharply criticized the Russian proposal. “It is not a peace plan,” said the diplomat, who declined to be identified to comment on confidential diplomatic discussions. “It is a road map to creating a new Transnistria or Abkhazia in Ukraine. It is a cynical effort to get out of all the commitments made in Minsk.”
一名西方外交官对俄罗斯的建议提出了尖锐批评。“那不是什么和平方案，”要求不具名评论机密外交磋商的这名人士称。“那是在乌克兰新成立一个德涅斯特河沿岸地区或阿布哈兹的路线图。这是一项令人生疑的努力，为的是让在明斯克做出的所有承诺都作废。”
Transnistria is a Russian enclave within Moldova that is effectively controlled by Moscow; Abkhazia is a breakaway region in Georgia that is also effectively under Russian control.
德涅斯特河沿岸地区是摩尔多瓦境内的一片俄罗斯飞地，实际上由莫斯科控制；阿布哈兹则是从格鲁吉亚脱离出来的一个地区，实际上也处于俄罗斯的控制之下。
Many Ukrainians express the same distrust of Russia’s motives, particularly the deployment of so-called peacekeeping forces, as it did in Transnistria and Abkhazia.
很多乌克兰人对俄罗斯的动机表达出了同样的不信任，特别是部署所谓的维和部队这一点。在德涅斯特河沿岸地区和阿布哈兹，俄罗斯均有这样的先例。
“Don’t play a Russian game, because Russia later will take care of all of this area,” said Igor Koziy, a military analyst at the Institute of Euro-Atlantic Cooperation, a research group in Kiev.
“不要玩俄罗斯游戏，因为俄罗斯随后会控制整片地区，”基辅的研究机构欧洲-大西洋合作研究所(Institute of Euro-Atlantic Cooperation)的军事分析师伊戈尔·科济伊(Igor Koziy)说。