WASHINGTON — In a major victory for the Obama administration, the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the authority of the Environmental Protection Agency to regulate the smog from coal plants that drifts across state lines from 27 Midwestern and Appalachian states to the East Coast.
华盛顿——奥巴马政府获得了一项重大胜利：本周二，最高法院支持了美国国家环境保护局（Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA）对燃煤电厂烟雾跨州污染进行监管的权力。这些烟雾从中西部和阿巴拉契亚地区的27个州随风飘移到了东海岸。
The 6-to-2 ruling bolsters the centerpiece of President Obama’s environmental agenda: a series of new regulations aimed at cutting pollution from coal-fired power plants. Republicans and the coal industry have criticized the regulations, which use the Clean Air Act as their legal authority, as a “war on coal.” The industry has waged an aggressive legal battle to undo the rules.
这项6票赞成、2票反对的裁决有力地支持了奥巴马的核心环境议程：出台一系列旨在削减燃煤发电厂污染的新监管规定。这些规定以《清洁空气法》(Clean Air Act)为法律后盾，但受到来自共和党和煤炭行业的“对煤炭宣战”的指责。煤炭业积极打响了法律战，力图让这些规定被撤销。
Legal experts said the decision, written by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, signals that the Obama administration’s efforts to use the Clean Air Act to fight global warming could withstand legal challenges.
这份裁决书由大法官鲁思·B·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)撰写。法律专家表示，它表明，奥巴马政府使用《清洁空气法》应对全球变暖的努力可以承受住法律上的挑战。
In June, the E.P.A. is expected to propose a sweeping new Clean Air Act regulation to cut emissions of carbon dioxide, the heat-trapping greenhouse gas that scientists say is the chief cause of climate change. Coal plants are the biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the United States.
今年6月，EPA有望提交一份覆盖面广、旨在削减二氧化碳排放的《清洁空气法》监管规定。科学家表示，作为具有热效应的温室气体，二氧化碳是气候变化的罪魁祸首。在美国，燃煤电厂是最大的温室气体排放源。
“It’s a big win for the E.P.A., and not just because it has to do with this rule,” said Jody Freeman, director of the environmental law program at Harvard. “It’s the fact that it’s setting the stage and creating momentum for what’s to come.”
“这是EPA的重大胜利，不仅仅是因为这项规定本身，”哈佛大学的环境法项目主任乔迪·弗里曼(Jody Freeman)说。“也是因为它为将来做好了准备，提供了推力。”
If the Supreme Court had decided against the Obama administration in Tuesday’s decision, Ms. Freeman said, “It would have been a shot across the bow to the E.P.A. as it takes the next steps” toward putting out the climate change regulations.
弗里曼称，假如最高法院本周二做出了不利于奥巴马政府的裁决，“那就相当于发出了警告，让EPA”在推出气候变化监管规定的“下一阶段工作中，不要轻举妄动”。
The Supreme Court decision is only the latest blow to coal. Also on Tuesday, a Federal District Court ordered the E.P.A. to propose by Dec. 1 a new nationwide regulation to rein in smog pollution from coal-fired power plants and other major polluters. This rule would come on top of the regulation covering cross-state air pollution.
最高法院的本次裁决不过是煤炭行业遭受的打击中最新的一次。同样在本周二，一家联邦地区法院下令，EPA在今年12月1日前草拟一份新的全国性监管规定，以控制燃煤发电厂等主要污染源的烟雾排放量。这是跨州空气污染规定之外的另一项独立规定。
The E.P.A. had been preparing to issue that regulation in 2011, but President Obama told the agency to delay it after his advisers warned that it could hurt his re-election chances in coal-reliant swing states like Ohio.
之前，EPA一直准备在2011年颁布那项规定，但奥巴马总统却让EPA推迟行动，因为幕僚们警告，像俄亥俄这种依赖煤炭行业的州在选举中摇摆不定，当时出台规定可能会威胁到奥巴马连任的机会。
Two weeks ago, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld another major E.P.A. Clean Air Act rule that would cut coal-plant pollution from mercury.
两周前，《清洁空气法》名下的另一项重大EPA监管规定受到了哥伦比亚特区联邦巡回上诉法院(United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit)的支持。该项规定旨在削减燃煤电厂的汞污染。
“Today’s Supreme Court decision is a resounding victory for public health and a key component of E.P.A.’s efforts to make sure all Americans have clean air to breathe,” Gina McCarthy, the E.P.A. administrator, said in a statement. She added that “the court’s finding also underscores the importance of basing the agency’s efforts on strong legal foundations and sound science.”
“最高法院今天的决定是公众健康的巨大胜利，也是EPA努力确保所有美国人都能呼吸到清洁空气工作的重要组成部分，” EPA主管吉娜·麦卡锡(Gina McCarthy)在声明中称。她表示，“法院的这项裁决，还突显了EPA立足于强大的法律基础和有力的科学证据来开展工作有多么重要。”
The interstate air pollution regulation, also known as the “good neighbor” rule, has pitted Rust Belt and Appalachian states like Ohio, Michigan and Kentucky against East Coast states like New York and Connecticut.
这项跨州空气污染监管规定也称为“友邻”规则。它使“铁锈地带”(Rust Belt)和阿巴拉契亚地区各州，比如俄亥俄、密歇根和肯塔基，与纽约和康涅狄格等东海岸各州展开了较量。
In its arguments before the court, the E.P.A. said the rules were necessary to protect the health and the environment of downwind states. East Coast states in particular are vulnerable to pollution blown by the prevailing west-to-east winds of the United States. The soot and smog produced by coal plants are linked to asthma, lung disease and premature death.
在最高法院的辩论中，EPA称，为了保护处于下风向各州的健康和环境，这些规定是必要的。美国盛行西风，东海岸各州因此也特别容易受到污染。燃煤电厂排放的粉尘和烟雾被证实与哮喘、肺病和早逝有关。
In her decision, Justice Ginsburg noted that in reining in interstate pollution, regulators must account for the vagaries of the wind. “Some pollutants stay within upwind states’ borders, the wind carries others to downwind states, and some subset of that group drifts to states without air quality problems,” she wrote, adding a biblical quotation from the Book of John: “The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth.”
大法官金斯伯格在裁决书中指出，为了控制跨州污染，监管机构必须考虑风向的反复无常。“有些污染物留在了处于上风向的州边界之内，有些则随风飘到了下风向的州，而其中一部分飘移到了没有空气质量问题的州，”她写道，并且还引用了《圣经·约翰福音》中的句子：“风随着意思吹，你听见风的响声，却不晓得从哪里来，往哪里去。”
In a dissent, Justice Antonin Scalia, joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, said the regulation was unwieldy and suggested it was Marxist. As written, the regulation will require upwind polluting states to cut pollution in relation to the amounts of pollution each state produces, but also as a proportion of how affordably a state can make the cuts. In other words, states that are able to more cost-effectively reduce pollution will be required to cut more of it.
大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)和克拉伦斯·托马斯(Clarence Thomas)投了反对票。在反对意见中，斯卡利亚表示，这项监管规定难以操作，并暗示这是马克思主义的做法。该规定明文要求，处在上风向的污染排放州在削减污染时，不仅要以各州的污染排放量为依据，而且还要考虑它们减少污染的经济承受能力。换句话说，在这些州中，减少污染的成本效益越高，就会被要求削减越多的污染。
Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. recused himself from the case.
大法官小塞缪尔·A·阿利托(Samuel A. Alito Jr.)对本案进行了回避。
The utilities and 15 states opposed to the regulations argued that the rules, as written by the Obama administration, gave the E.P.A. too much authority and placed an unfair economic burden on the polluting states.
持反对意见的电力部门和15个州认为，奥巴马政府拟定的这些规定赋予了 EPA太大的权力，而且让污染排放州承担了不公平的经济负担。
The decision will force coal plant owners to install costly “scrubber” technology to curb smokestack pollution of smog-forming chemicals. Many owners have said the regulation would be so expensive to carry out that they expected to shut down their oldest and dirtiest coal plants.
这一裁决将迫使燃煤电厂业主安装昂贵的“洗涤器”，以遏止形成烟雾的化学品从烟囱中排放。很多业主表示，遵守规定的成本过高，因此他们可能会关停一些历史最悠久、污染最严重的燃煤电厂。
Republicans in Congress denounced the decision.
共和党国会议员对这项决定进行了谴责。
“This is just the latest blow to jobs and affordable energy,” Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan and the chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Representative Edward Whitfield, Republican of Kentucky, said in a statement. Both are from states that rely heavily on cheap coal-fired electricity.
“对于就业机会和费用合理的能源而言，这仅仅是最新的一次打击，”众议院能源和商务委员会(Energy and Commerce Committee)主席、密歇根州共和党人弗雷德·厄普顿(Fred Upton)和肯塔基州的共和党众议员爱德华·惠特菲尔德(Edward Whitfield)发表声明称。两人均来自严重依赖廉价燃煤发电的州。
They added: “The administration’s overreaching regulation will drive up energy costs and threaten jobs and electric reliability. We cannot allow E.P.A.’s aggressive regulatory expansion to go unchecked. We will continue our oversight of the agency and our efforts to protect American families and workers from E.P.A.’s onslaught of costly rules.”
他们还表示：“奥巴马政府监管得过头了，它会推高能源成本，威胁到就业机会和电力的可靠供应。EPA正在咄咄逼人的扩大监管权力，而我们不能听之任之。我们将继续监督这一机构，努力保护美国家庭和工人免受代价昂贵的EPA规定的冲击。”
In 2011, the Obama administration issued the “good neighbor” rule, which was to apply to 27 states east of Nebraska — half of the country — but the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia struck it down, ruling that the E.P.A. had not followed the Clean Air Act when it calculated how to assign responsibility for cross-state air pollution. The Supreme Court’s ruling overturned that decision.
奥巴马政府于2011年颁布了“友邻”规则，本来打算在内布拉斯加以东的27个州——相当于半个美国——实施，但被哥伦比亚特区上诉法院驳回，判定EPA没有遵循《清洁空气法》来计算如何分配跨州空气污染的责任。最高法院的本次裁决推翻了当时的判决。