SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea has made progress in expanding its main satellite launch site, apparently to accommodate larger rockets that outside analysts said the country was developing for its intercontinental ballistic missile program, an American research institute reported Thursday.
韩国首尔——美国一家研究机构周四通报称，朝鲜在扩建自己主要的卫星发射点上取得了进展，似乎是为了发射更大的火箭。外部分析人士称，朝鲜正在为自己的洲际弹道导弹计划研制更大的火箭。
The U.S.-Korea Institute at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies based its findings on an analysis of recent satellite imagery of the Sohae Satellite Launching Station, where North Korea set off a long-range rocket into space in December 2012 in defiance of a United Nations ban on its use of ballistic missile technology.
对朝鲜西海卫星发射场(Sohae Satellite Launching Station)最近的卫星图像进行分析之后，约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际研究学院(Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies)的美韩研究所(U.S.-Korea Institute)得出了前述结论。2012年12月，朝鲜不顾联合国禁止其使用弹道导弹技术的禁令，在该发射场将一枚远程火箭送入了太空。
In recent years, advances in commercial satellite imagery have allowed nongovernmental research organizations to monitor the North’s nuclear and rocket-launching operations and to provide regular updates on them.
近年来，受益于商业卫星图像的进步，非政府研究机构可以监视朝鲜的核动向和火箭发射行动，并定期进行更新。
“Modification of the Sohae launchpad should be completed by March or April if work progresses at the current rate,” the institute said on its website 38 North.
“如果以当前进度施工，西海卫星发射场的改造工程到3月或4月就该完工了，”该研究所在其网站38 North上说。
It said North Korea was probably nearing completion of modifications to the gantry at the launchpad in Tongchang-ri, near the North’s western border with China. Engineers there have added a new 11th level, “allowing the facility to handle large rockets of up to 50 meters in length” - about 160 feet - “and almost 70 percent longer” than the long-range Unha-3, which successfully thrust a satellite into orbit in 2012.
该研究所称，朝鲜很可能即将完成对东仓里发射准备台的改造。东仓里位于朝鲜西部邻近中国的边境。那里的工程师为发射台新增了第11级，“使该设施具有了处理高达50米的大型火箭的能力，这样的火箭几乎比‘银河3号’远程火箭(Unha-3)长70%”，后者曾于2012年将一枚卫星成功送入轨道。
Despite international criticism and United Nations sanctions, North Korea has vowed to continue to build and launch more powerful rockets than the Unha-3. North Korea says it launches rockets for the peaceful purpose of carrying scientific satellites. But Washington sees them as a cover for developing intercontinental ballistic missiles that could one day strike targets as far away as North America.
虽然面临国际社会的批评和联合国的制裁，朝鲜仍誓称要继续建造和发射比“银河3号”更强大的火箭。朝鲜表示，它发射火箭是为了实现运载科学卫星的和平目的。然而，华盛顿认为这不过是研发洲际弹道导弹的幌子，有朝一日，这种导弹的射程可能会远达北美。
Also on Thursday, North Korea threatened to cancel reunions of families separated by the Korean War, accusing the United States of flying B-52 bombers on a training mission over the Korean Peninsula.
同样是在周四，朝鲜威胁要取消朝鲜战争失散家庭的团聚活动，并对美国派遣B-52轰炸机在朝鲜半岛执行训练任务的行为表示了谴责。