Leonard Glenn Francis, a wealthy Malaysian contractor at the heart of one of the United States Navy’s largest bribery scandals in decades, seemed to have stepped right off the set of “Casablanca.”
伦纳德·格伦·弗朗西斯(Leonard Glenn Francis)仿佛是刚刚从电影《卡萨布兰卡》(Casablanca)的布景中走出来的人物。这名富有的马来西亚承包商，是数十年来规模最大的美国海军贿赂丑闻之一的核心人物。
At 6 feet 3 inches and 350 pounds, Mr. Francis hosted dinners at luxury hotels in Malaysia, Singapore and Hong Kong for senior officers who knew him as Fat Leonard, dispensing boxes of Cuban cigars and dropping the names of admirals he knew, senior Navy officers said.
海军高级军官透露，身高6英尺3英寸（约1.9米）、体重350磅（约159公斤）的弗朗西斯在马来西亚、新加坡和香港的豪华酒店内设宴款待军官们，这些人称他为“胖子伦纳德”(Fat Leonard)，他分发着整盒整盒的古巴雪茄，嘴边蹦出他认识的海军将领的名字。
But as his reputation for lavish parties spread, so too did warnings about his business practices, according to Navy officials and court documents. Emails obtained by criminal investigators show that from 2009 to early 2011, several ship crews and contracting officials filed complaints about his “gold-plated” fees for fuel, port security and other services. In 2010, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service opened investigations into questionable charges in Thailand and Japan by his company, documents show.
可是，海军军官和法庭文件透露，在他花天酒地的声名传播开来的同时，针对他的商业活动发出的警告也传播了出来。刑事调查人员获得的电子邮件显示，从2009年到2011年初，几名船员和负责承包的军官投诉说，他在提供燃油、港口安保和其他服务时收取了稳赚不赔的高昂费用。文件显示，2010年，海军刑事调查局(Naval Criminal Investigative Service)针对他的公司在泰国和日本从事不端行为的指控展开了调查。
Despite those red flags, in June 2011, the Navy awarded Mr. Francis $200 million in contracts, giving him control over providing supplies and dockside services for its fleet across the Pacific.
然而，美国海军无视这些警示，在2011年6月把价值2亿美元（约合12亿元人民币）的合同交给了弗朗西斯，这些合同让他一手把持了美国海军舰队在整个太平洋地区的补给和码头服务业务。
Now Mr. Francis is at the center of a widening investigation into an overbilling scheme in which federal prosecutors say he used cash, prostitutes and gifts to bribe Navy officials to help him defraud the service out of tens of millions of dollars. Two Navy commanders and a naval investigative agent have been charged with accepting bribes, while two admirals and a captain are also under investigation. Officials say they expect more service members to be implicated.
目前，在一场范围日渐扩大的调查中，弗朗西斯是核心人物，这场调查的关注点是一场虚报费用的阴谋。联邦检察官称，他用现金、妓女和礼物向海军军官行贿，后者帮助他从海军骗取了数千万美元。两名海军指挥官和一名海军调查人员已经因受贿而受到指控，此外还有两名将领和一名上校正在接受调查。官员们透露，他们预计会有更多的现役人员涉案。
Interviews with American officials and documents obtained by The New York Times provide the first detailed look at how Mr. Francis and his company, Glenn Defense Marine Asia, lowballed rivals to win contracts as the first step in the overcharging scheme. The company submitted winning bids that experts say seemed so low that the Navy should have questioned whether they were realistic. Once it had locked up contracts, investigators say, the company — with the assistance of Navy officers — began pumping out fake invoices to inflate its billings.
通过对美国官员的采访，以及取得的文件，《纽约时报》首次详细了解了弗朗西斯和他的公司，格伦亚洲海上防务公司（Glenn Defense Marine Asia，简称GDMA）在虚报费用阴谋中的第一步操作，即报出比竞争对手更低的价格进而赢得合同。专家说，该公司提交的中标价如此之低，海军本来应该怀疑，这样的报价是否真实。调查人员说，一旦签订了合同，GDMA就开始在海军军官的协助下，炮制假发票提高账单总金额。
Though Glenn Marine’s low bids might have seemed enticing, military contracting experts who reviewed those bids for The Times said the Navy should have been wary, and certainly more watchful, of Mr. Francis, particularly given the numerous warnings raised about his business practices over the years.
尽管GDMA的低报价看上去可能相当诱人，但是为《纽约时报》评估这些报价的军方承包专家说，海军本应有所警惕，尤其是考虑到过去几年对他的业务活动提出的诸多警告，海军无疑更应该提防弗朗西斯。
“The Navy watchdogs were sleeping while a burglar walked out with everything in the house,” said Charles Tiefer, a former member of the federal Commission on Wartime Contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan and a professor at the University of Baltimore School of Law.
美国联邦政府机构伊拉克和阿富汗战时承包委员会(Commission on Wartime Contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan)前委员查尔斯·迪菲尔(Charles Tiefer)说，“海军监管者正在睡觉的时候，盗贼把屋里所有的东西都卷走了。”迪菲尔是巴尔的摩大学法学院(University of Baltimore School of Law)教授。
The Navy’s criminal investigators now say they are examining how Mr. Francis won those contracts. The Navy secretary, Ray Mabus, has also ordered a review of similar supply contracts in other parts of the world, officials said. The Navy has canceled all of its contracts with Mr. Francis’ company and suspended it from future bidding.
海军刑事调查人员现在说，他们正在调查弗朗西斯是如何赢得这些合同的。官员们透露，海军部长雷·马布斯(Ray Mabus)也已下令审查全球其他地区类似的补给合同。军方已经取消和弗朗西斯的公司签订的所有合同，并撤销了该公司未来的投标权。
The case first received news media attention, focused mainly on the salaciousness of the charges, after the Navy lured Mr. Francis, 49, and an associate to a meeting in San Diego, where they were arrested in September. Mr. Francis was detained on bribery conspiracy charges as federal agents also arrested Cmdr. Michael Misiewicz, who had scheduled port stops for warships in the Pacific, and John B. Beliveau II, a naval investigator accused of warning Mr. Francis about the inquiry. Another commander, Jose Luis Sanchez, who oversaw supply contracts, was arrested this month.
今年9月，美国海军把49岁的弗朗西斯和他的一名副手，引诱到了圣迭戈参加一场会议，二人在那里遭到逮捕。此后本案第一次受到新闻媒体的关注，媒体将目光主要放在了对弗朗西斯的指控中所涉及的淫秽情节上。当局指控弗朗西斯图谋实施贿赂将其羁押，同时联邦探员还逮捕了海军中校迈克尔·米谢维茨(Michael Misiewicz)和海军调查人员约翰·B·贝利沃二世(John B. Beliveau II)，前者负责安排战舰在太平洋上停靠的港口，后者被控向弗朗西斯通报了调查的情况。负责补给合同的另一名中校何塞·路易斯·桑切斯(Jose Luis Sanchez)也在本月被捕。
The three Navy officials were charged with conspiracy to commit bribery, accused of accepting Asian trips, the services of prostitutes and other gifts, which varied from “The Lion King” and Lady Gaga tickets to $100,000 in cash. Commander Misiewicz and Mr. Beliveau have pleaded not guilty, as have Mr. Francis and his associate. Mr. Francis’ lawyer, Pat Swan, declined to comment on the case. A hearing is scheduled for Thursday in San Diego on Mr. Francis’ request for bail. Commander Sanchez’s lawyer, Vincent J. Ward, said, “We are confident Commander Sanchez isn’t the person the government has portrayed him to be, and we look forward to defending him.”
这三名海军军官被控图谋受贿，具体包括收受了到亚洲旅行的好处、妓女服务和其他馈赠，其中既包括《狮子王》(The Lion King)演出和Lady Gaga演唱会的门票，也包括10万美元的现金，花样繁多。米谢维茨和贝利沃已提出无罪抗辩，弗朗西斯和他的副手也自称无罪。弗朗西斯的律师帕特·斯旺(Pat Swan)拒绝对本案置评。按计划，周四将在圣迭戈举行一场听证会，听取弗朗西斯的保释申请。桑切斯的律师文森特·J·沃德(Vincent J. Ward)说，“我们确信桑切斯中校不是政府描述的那种人，我们期待为他做出辩护。”
The breadth of the case became clearer on Nov. 8, when the Navy placed two high-level officials, Vice Adm. Ted N. Branch, the director of naval intelligence, and Rear Adm. Bruce Loveless, the director of intelligence operations, on leave while it investigated allegations that they took gifts from Mr. Francis before becoming admirals. The questions about Admiral Branch date to his command of an aircraft carrier, the Nimitz, from 2004 to 2007, officials said.
此案涉及面之广在11月8日变得更为明显了。这天，海军在对两名海军高级将领开展调查时，要求他们暂时离任。这二人被控在升为将官前，曾收受过弗朗西斯的馈赠。他们分别是海军情报总监特德·N·布兰奇中将(Ted N. Branch)和海军情报行动负责人布鲁斯·洛夫莱斯少将(Bruce Loveless)。官员们透露，布兰奇的问题发生在2004年到2007年之间，当时他是尼米兹号(Nimitz)航母的舰长。
A sixth officer, Capt. Daniel Dusek, has been relieved of command of an assault ship because of ties to Mr. Francis, the Navy said. The admirals and Captain Dusek declined through the Navy to comment.
海军表示，第六名涉案军官丹尼尔·杜谢克上校(Daniel Dusek)因为和弗朗西斯的关系，已经被解除了攻击舰舰长的职务。上述两名将领和杜谢克均通过海军表示拒绝置评。
Though generally engaging, Mr. Francis could be a tough and demanding negotiator. After one commander complained that his security fees were too high for a Navy hospital ship on a humanitarian mission in Cambodia in 2010, for instance, Mr. Francis fired off an angry protest to an admiral.
弗朗西斯通常很和善，尽管如此，他也可以强硬而苛刻地讨价还价。举个例子，2011年，一名指挥官抱怨，弗朗西斯对在柬埔寨执行人道主义任务的海军医疗船收取了过高的安保费用，这之后，弗朗西斯怒气冲冲地向一名海军将领提出了抗议。
Court documents also say that in March 2011, as the Blue Ridge, the command ship of the United States Seventh Fleet, sailed into Port Klang, Malaysia, with the fleet commander on board, Mr. Francis’ company refused to let it dock unless it promised to pay fees to a terminal that Mr. Francis owned.
法庭文件还显示，2011年3月，美国海军第七舰队的指挥舰“蓝岭”号(Blue Ridge)驶入了马来西亚的巴生港，虽然舰队最高指挥官当时就在船上，弗朗西斯的公司依然拒绝让它停靠，除非应允给他名下的码头付费。
Three months after the Blue Ridge incident, the Navy, in an effort to save money, completed a reorganization of its supply contracts into three large regions for the Pacific and one for the Indian Ocean. Mr. Francis won the bidding for all of the Pacific regions, though he lost out on the smaller contract for the Indian Ocean, where he had little experience.
“蓝岭”号事件发生三个月后，军方为了省钱，重新整合了补给合同，把合同区域划分成太平洋三大区和印度洋一个区。弗朗西斯赢得了整个太平洋地区的补给竞标。不过，在几乎没有经验的印度洋区，他失去了这个规模较小的合同。
A rival, the DaeKee Global Company, protested Mr. Francis’ victory for work in Japan, Korea and Russia. Documents in those files show how much lower he was willing to bid than his competitors to scoop up contracts.
弗朗西斯的对手之一大起环球公司(DaeKee Global Company)就他赢得日本、韩国和俄罗斯大区的业务一事提出了抗议。相关档案文件显示，为了尽快把合同纳入囊中，弗朗西斯不惜给出比竞争对手低得多的报价。
DaeKee, a South Korean company, bid $67.9 million, while Mr. Francis offered to do the work for $21.6 million, less than one-third of DaeKee’s price. “That type of huge price discrepancy is certainly a red flag,” said Robert A. Burton, a former acting administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, the government’s top contracting office. “Contracting officers should have been raising questions.”
韩国大起的报价是6790万美元，而弗朗西斯提出，2160万美元就能把活给干了，出价还不到前者的三分之一。美国政府负责承包事务的最高机构联邦采购政策办公室(Office of Federal Procurement Policy)前代理主任罗伯特·A·伯顿(Robert A. Burton)说，“这种巨大的价格差异绝对是个警报。承包人员本应提出质疑。”
Contracts in hand, Mr. Francis turned to his friends inside the Navy to help him, federal investigators and documents say. The documents portray Mr. Francis as carefully cultivating Commander Misiewicz for nearly a year before recruiting him to secretly assist Glenn Marine.
联邦调查人员的话及相关文件显示，手握合同的弗朗西斯向他在海军内部的朋友求助。根据这些文件的描述，在招募米谢维茨中校秘密协助GDMA之前，弗朗西斯花了近一年时间来精心培养与他的关系。