WASHINGTON — President Trump summoned all 100 members of the Senate for a briefing by his war cabinet on the mounting tensions with North Korea. An American submarine loaded with Tomahawk missiles surfaced in a port in South Korea. Gas stations in the North shut down amid rumors that the government was stockpiling fuel.
华盛顿——特朗普总统召集了参议院所有的100名议员听取他的军务内阁就日益紧张的美朝关系做情况通报。一艘运载着战斧(Tomahawk)导弹的美国潜水艇在韩国的一个港口露出水面。朝鲜关闭了不少加油站，有传言称，该国政府在储存燃料。
Americans could be forgiven for thinking that war is about to break out. But it is not.
在这种情况下，如果美国民众认为战争一触即发，也情有可原。但事实并非如此。
The drumbeat of bellicose threats and military muscle-flexing on both sides overstates the danger of a clash between the United States and North Korea, senior Trump administration officials and experts who have followed the Korean crisis for decades said. While Mr. Trump regards the rogue government in the North as his most pressing international problem, he told the senators he was pursuing a strategy that relied heavily on using China’s economic leverage to curb its neighbor’s provocative behavior.
特朗普政府高层官员及跟踪朝鲜危机几十年的专家们表示，美国和朝鲜的叫嚣威胁与武力炫耀夸大了两国冲突的危险。尽管特朗普认为朝鲜的流氓政府是他面临的最紧迫的国际问题，但他告诉这些参议员，他追求的战略十分依赖中国的经济杠杆，要靠它遏制朝鲜的挑衅行为。
Recent American military moves — like deploying the submarine Michigan and the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson to the waters off the Korean Peninsula — were aimed less at preparing for a pre-emptive strike, officials said, than at discouraging the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, from conducting further nuclear or ballistic missile tests.
官员们表示，美国最近采取的军事举动——比如在靠近朝鲜半岛的水域部署“密歇根号”(Michigan)潜艇和“卡尔文森号”(Carl Vinson)航空母舰——更大的目的是让朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)放弃进一步开展核试验或弹道导弹试验的念头，而不是为实施先发制人的袭击做准备。
“In confronting the reckless North Korean regime, it’s critical that we’re guided by a strong sense of resolve, both privately and publicly, both diplomatically and militarily,” Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., the Pentagon’s top commander in the Pacific, told the House Armed Services Committee on Wednesday.
“面对鲁莽的朝鲜政权，以一种坚定的决心为指引是至关重要的，不管是在私下还是公开地，在外交还是军事上，都要如此，”五角大楼在太平洋地区的最高指挥官海军上将小哈里·B·哈里斯(Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr.)周三对众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)讲道。
“We want to bring Kim Jong-un to his senses,” he said, “not to his knees.”
“我们想让金正恩恢复理智，”他说。“而不是让他屈膝下跪。”
There are other signs that the tensions fall short of war. Mr. Kim continues to appear in public, most recently at a pig farm last weekend. South Koreans are not flooding supermarkets to stock up on food. There is no talk of evacuating cities and no sign the United States is deploying additional forces to South Korea. Nor is the American Embassy in Seoul advising diplomats’ families to leave the country.
还有其他迹象表明，两国的紧张关系不会演变成战争。金正恩持续在公开场合露面，最近一次是于上周末出现在一个养猪场。韩国人没有大量涌入超市囤积食物。没人谈论疏散城市，没有迹象表明美国在往朝鲜部署额外的兵力。美国驻首尔大使馆也没有建议外交官的家属撤离这个国家。
All those things happened in the spring of 1994, when President Bill Clinton was considering a pre-emptive strike on a North Korean reactor to prevent the North from extracting plutonium that it could use to make a bomb. That is the closest the United States has come to a military clash with North Korea since the end of the Korean War in 1953.
所有这些迹象在1994年春都曾出现过，当时比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统考虑对朝鲜的核反应堆进行先发制人的打击，以防止朝鲜从中提取钚，用以制造核弹。那是美国在朝鲜战争于1953年结束后，距离与朝鲜发生军事冲突最近的一次。
“The reality is not as tense as the rhetoric on both sides would lead you to believe,” said Joel S. Wit, an expert on North Korea at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
“现实情况并不像双方的言辞让人感觉的那么剑拔弩张，”约翰·霍普金斯大学高级国际问题研究学院(Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies)的朝鲜问题专家乔尔·S·威特(Joel S. Wit)说。
None of this is to say there is no risk of miscalculation that could escalate into hostilities. Mr. Trump’s penchant for provocative statements introduced an element of unpredictability to a relationship in which the uncertainty has historically been on the North Korean side. How Mr. Kim reacts is the major variable in a complicated equation.
这样讲，并不是说不存在错误估计、导致事态升级为战争的风险。特朗普倾向于发表挑衅性言论，这给美朝关系带来一种不确定因素，而在以往其中的不确定性是在朝鲜一方。金正恩会做出什么反应，一直是相关复杂公式里的主要变量。
North Korea is also steadily adding to its nuclear arsenal and edging closer to testing an intercontinental ballistic missile, tipped with a warhead, that could hit the United States. Intelligence estimates vary on how quickly that could happen, but some say within three years: a timetable that would put a successful test within Mr. Trump’s term in office.
朝鲜也在稳步扩大自己的核武库，距离可以试射一种带核弹头、可以袭击美国的洲际弹道导弹越来越近。情报机构对这种情况会多快发生的估计各不相同，但有些表示会在三年之内：依据这个时间表，在特朗普任期内就会出现一次成功的试射。
“No previous president has ever been in that situation,” said Victor D. Cha, director of the Asian studies program at Georgetown University, who advised the administration of George W. Bush on North Korea. “I don’t think we’re going to war, but we’re in a different phase.”
“之前没有哪个总统碰到过这种情况，”曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府担任朝鲜问题顾问、现为乔治城大学(Georgetown University)亚洲研究项目主任的车维德(Victor D. Cha)说。“我不认为我们在走向战争，但我们的确处在一个不同的阶段。”
Mr. Cha said he viewed the briefing for senators as part of an effort by the White House to signal the seriousness of North Korea to an American public that regards it as a distant, complicated issue. But others criticized the president for being theatrical, with some saying he was using the senators as a prop to burnish his 100-day record.
车维德表示，他将参议员们参加的这场通报会看作白宫的相关努力的一部分，目的是让美国公众认识到朝鲜问题的严重性，因为他们一直觉得这是一个复杂而遥远的问题。但也有人指责总统是在做戏，称他是把参议员当道具，给他履职100天的业绩贴金。
“There was very little, if anything, new,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut and a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “It is still unclear what our strategy and policy is.”
“几乎没什么新内容，”参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)成员、康涅狄格州民主党参议员理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)说。“目前仍不清楚我们的战略和政策是什么。”
Even some Republican senators complained afterward that they had learned little and wondered why they needed to pile into buses for the trip from Capitol Hill to the Eisenhower Executive Office Building on the White House grounds, where they were seated in an auditorium.
就连一些共和党参议员也事后抱怨，他们几乎没什么收获，也想不通为什么要他们挤进大巴，从国会山赶到白宫内的艾森豪威尔行政办公楼(Eisenhower Executive Office Building)，坐在其中的一座会堂里听这个报告。
“I’m not sure I would have done it,” said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. He said he was not sure why the briefing had been timed for this week and begged off further comment, adding, “All I can say is, it was fine.”
“我不确定我会这么做，”参议院外交关系委员会(Foreign Relations Committee)主席、田纳西州共和党参议员鲍勃·考克(Bob Corker)说。他说他不确定通报会为什么被安排在这周，也谢绝做进一步的评论，还讲道，“我只能说，还好。”
White House officials said they had been responding to a request from Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, and that Mr. Trump had proposed moving the site of the briefing. He spoke to the senators for less than three minutes, mainly promoting his efforts to persuade President Xi Jinping of China to put more economic pressure on North Korea.
白宫官员表示，此举在是回应参议院共和党领袖、肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)的请求，并表示是特朗普提议将举行通报会的地点挪到白宫。他向这些参议员讲话的时间不足3分钟，主要是宣讲他劝说中国国家主席习近平向朝鲜施加更多经济压力的努力。
Mr. Trump then turned the briefing over to Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson; Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis; the director of national intelligence, Dan Coats; and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr.
然后，特朗普就把发言的任务交到了其他人手上：国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(State Rex W. Tillerson)、国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)、国家情报局局长丹·科茨(Dan Coats)，以及参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)主席小约瑟夫·F·邓福德上将(Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr.)。
Analysts said it was too early to assess Mr. Trump’s claim that the Chinese were finally cooperating with the United States. Previous presidents believed they had made headway with Beijing, only to have China’s actions fall short of expectations.
分析人士表示，现在对特朗普提出的中国最终会与美国合作的说法进行评价，还为时过早。之前也有总统认为自己和北京取得了一些进展，结果却发现中国的行动没有达到他们的预期。
The reports of closed gas stations in North Korea were intriguing, analysts said, because they suggested that the North was bracing for a suspension of fuel shipments from China. The Chinese have yet to take such a step, though they have curtailed purchases of North Korean coal.
分析人士表示，有关朝鲜关闭加油站的报道非常引人关注，因为这表明朝鲜在为中国暂停向朝鲜输送燃料的情况做准备。尽管中国已经削减从朝鲜购买煤炭的数量，但它还没有采取上述措施。
In a separate briefing for reporters, the White House said Mr. Trump had decided on a strategy that would include diplomacy to persuade China to keep up pressure on its neighbor, as well as military preparations.
白宫在给记者提供的另一份简报中表示，特朗普已经决定采取一种策略，即一边采取外交手段说服中国继续向其邻国施压，一边做好军事准备。
A senior White House official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, declined to discuss the nature of the military preparations or the timetable for seeing a change in North Korea’s behavior. He also said the administration was considering returning North Korea to the government’s list of state sponsors of terrorism.
一位匿名接受采访的白宫高层官员拒绝谈论这些军事准备的性质，也不愿透露他们预计朝鲜的行为什么时候会发生改变。他还表示，政府在考虑将朝鲜重新列入资助恐怖主义国家的名单。
On Thursday morning, the National Security Council will hold a principals committee meeting to weigh economic and military options.
周四上午，国家安全委员会(National Security Council)将举行一场重要的负责人级别会议，以权衡美国手上的经济和军事选项。
Admiral Harris told lawmakers that North Korea’s recent setbacks in its missile launches would not slow the country’s efforts to achieve its nuclear goals.
哈里斯上将对议员们表示，朝鲜不会因为最近在导弹发射上遭遇的挫折而放慢实现其核目标的努力。
“With every test, Kim Jong-un moves closer to his stated goal of a pre-emptive nuclear strike capability against American cities, and he’s not afraid to fail in public,” he told the House Armed Services Committee in a hearing on security challenges in the region.
“每经过一次试验，金正恩就距离他宣称的具备对美国城市实施先发制人核袭击能力的目标更进一步，而且他不怕在众目睽睽之下失败，”他在一场有关该地区安全挑战的听证会上对众议院军事委员会(House Armed Services Committee)讲道。