WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court ruled on Monday against three death row inmates who had sought to bar the use of an execution drug they said risked causing excruciating pain.
华盛顿——联邦最高法院本周一做出裁决，不支持三名死刑犯的要求。这些犯人希望禁止使用一种注射死刑药物，理由是它可能会导致难以忍受的疼痛。
The drug, the sedative midazolam, played a part in three long and apparently painful executions last year. It was used in an effort to render inmates unconscious before they were injected with other, severely painful drugs.
这种药物是镇静剂咪达唑仑。去年，美国出现了三起似乎很痛苦的耗时长久的死刑执行过程，而咪达唑仑在其中发挥了一定作用。在犯人被注射引发剧烈疼痛的药物之前，行刑者会用咪达唑仑来让他们失去知觉。
Four condemned inmates in Oklahoma challenged the use of the drug, saying it did not reliably render the person unconscious and so violated the Eighth Amendment’s ban on cruel and unusual punishment. Lower courts disagreed.
俄克拉何马州的四名死刑犯对这种药物的使用提出了申诉，声称用它来让人失去知觉并不可靠，因此违反了宪法第八修正案中禁止残酷和非常规惩罚的条款。下级法院没有采纳他们的意见。
Oklahoma and several other states started to use midazolam in executions after manufacturers in Europe and the United States refused to sell them the barbiturates that were traditionally used to produce unconsciousness.
之前在执行死刑时，用来让死囚失去知觉的药物是巴比妥酸盐。不过，欧洲和美国厂商拒绝销售这类药物之后，俄克拉何马州和其他几个州开始使用咪达唑仑来代替。
Lawyers for the Oklahoma inmates, with the support of experts in pharmacology and anesthetics, said midazolam, even if properly administered, was unreliable. They pointed to three executions last year that seemed to go awry.
在药理学和麻醉学专家的支持下，这几名俄克拉荷马囚犯的律师提出，即使是适当使用，咪达唑仑也并不可靠。他们指出，去年有三起死刑执行过程似乎出了差错。
In April 2014, Clayton D. Lockett regained consciousness during the execution procedure, writhing and moaning after the intravenous line was improperly placed. In Ohio in January 2014 and in Arizona in July, prisoners appeared to gasp and choke for extended periods.
2014年4月，由于静脉导管置入不当，克莱顿·D·洛基特(Clayton D. Lockett)在死刑执行过程中苏醒过来，身体扭动，发出呻吟之声。2014年1月在俄亥俄州，以及7月在亚利桑那州，死刑犯似乎都在很长一段时间里喘不过气来，出现窒息现象。
The Supreme Court last considered lethal injections in 2008, in Baze v. Rees, when it held that what was then the standard three-drug combination, using the barbiturate sodium thiopental as the first agent, did not violate the Eighth Amendment.
最高法院上一次考量注射死刑问题是在2008年的“巴泽诉里斯”(Baze v. Rees)一案中。那次的裁决是：当时使用的三种药剂的标准做法并没有违反第八修正案。巴比妥酸盐类药物硫喷妥钠是那三种药剂中的第一剂。
The new case, Glossip v. Gross, No.14-7955, originally included a fourth inmate, Charles F. Warner. But he was executed on Jan. 15 after the Supreme Court denied his request for a stay by a 5-to-4 vote.
本次考量的这桩新案件名为“格罗斯普诉格罗斯”(Glossip v. Gross)，编号14-7955。原告中最初还有第四名犯人查尔斯·F·华纳(Charles F. Warner)。但在最高法院以5比4的票数拒绝了他的延期请求之后，他已于1月15日被执行了死刑。
A little more than a week later, the court agreed to hear the remaining inmates’ appeals, and a few days after that it stayed their executions.
几天后，法院裁定暂时延后其余三人的死刑，并在距离1月15日刚过了一周的时候同意听取他们的上诉。
They are Richard E. Glossip, who was convicted of arranging the beating death of his employer; John M. Grant, who was convicted of stabbing a prison cafeteria worker to death; and Benjamin R. Cole Sr., who was convicted of breaking his 9-month-old daughter’s spine, killing her.
这三名囚犯分别是理查德·E·格罗斯普(Richard E. Glossip)，因安排将其雇主殴打致死而被定罪；约翰·M·格兰特(John M. Grant)，因捅死监狱食堂的一名员工而被定罪；老本杰明·R·科尔(Benjamin R. Cole Sr.)，因打断了自己9个月大的女儿的脊柱并致其死亡而被定罪。