SEOUL, South Korea — The top nuclear envoys of the United States, South Korea and Japan agreed on Wednesday to ratchet up pressure on North Korea, including a more effective and creative enforcement of sanctions on the impoverished country.
韩国首尔——周三，美国、韩国和日本在核问题方面的最高代表商定对朝鲜加大施压力度，包括以更有效和更新颖的方式来对这个贫穷国家实施制裁。
The three allies also said that their efforts to curtail North Korea’s nuclear weapons ambitions would now include increasing pressure on North Korea to improve its human rights record — a highly delicate topic that they have so far kept separate from their nuclear negotiations with the North.
这三个盟国还表示，为了遏制朝鲜在核武器方面的野心，他们的工作如今还将包括对朝鲜施加更大压力，要求其改善人权状况——这个话题十分敏感，之前的讨论一直将其与朝鲜的核谈判分开。
“We agreed on the importance of enhancing pressure and sanctions on North Korea even as we keep all diplomatic options on the table and open,” said Sung Kim, Washington’s top representative to the six-nation talks aimed at negotiating an end to the North Korean nuclear weapons program.
华盛顿派出的六方会谈的最高代表金成(Sung Kim)表示，“在对朝鲜加大施压和制裁力度的重要性方面，我们达成了一致，尽管我们愿意公开讨论一切外交手段。”六方会谈的目的是通过谈判终止朝鲜的核武器计划。
“We also agreed on the importance of working with the international community to address the grave human rights situation in North Korea,” Mr. Kim told reporters in Seoul as he emerged from a meeting with his South Korean and Japanese counterparts, Hwang Joon-kook and Junichi Ihara.
“在与国际社会合作来共同应对朝鲜糟糕的人权状况的重要性上，我们也持一致意见，”金成在首尔告诉记者。他当时刚刚结束与韩国代表黄浚局(Hwang Joon-kook)和日本代表伊原纯一(Junichi Ihara)的会晤。
The six-nation talks, which also involve North Korea, China and Russia, have been dormant since 2008. In the interim, fear has been growing that the North has been increasing its stockpile of plutonium and uranium fuel for nuclear weapons.
六方会谈的参与者还包括朝鲜、中国和俄罗斯。不过，自2008年以来，会谈一直处于停滞状态。停滞期间，外界愈发担心，朝鲜一直在增加用于核武器的钚和铀燃料的储备。
Mr. Kim’s trilateral meeting in Seoul followed the test of a submarine-launched ballistic missile by North Korea this month and its subsequent claim that it had been building nuclear warheads small enough to be mounted on a long-range missile.
在金成此次赴首尔参加三方会谈之前，朝鲜刚刚于本月测试了一枚潜射弹道导弹，并于随后宣称，它在制造尺寸小到足以搭载到远程导弹上的核弹头。
Mr. Ihara said that the allies shared a “sense of urgency” over what Mr. Hwang later called the “seriousness in the advancement of North Korea’s nuclear capability.”
伊原纯一称，三国均抱有一种“紧迫感”，而黄浚局随后称其源于“朝鲜核能力提高的严重性”。
Mr. Kim and Mr. Hwang were to meet with Beijing’s top nuclear negotiator, Wu Dawei, in the Chinese capital later this week to urge China, North Korea’s largest trading partner, to use its economic leverage to curb its behavior.
本周晚些时候，金成和黄浚局将在北京会见中国的首席核谈判代表武大伟，以督促身为朝鲜最大贸易伙伴的中国凭借经济影响力来约束朝鲜的行为。
Officials here said that other options under discussion included tightening inspections of cargo traveling in and out of North Korea and squeezing the source of hard currency North Korea earns through the tens of thousands of workers it sends to factories, building sites, logging camps and other work sites in China, Russia and countries in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
这里的官员称，其他一些正在谈论的选择还包括：对进出朝鲜的货物加强检查，以及压缩朝鲜的硬通货来源——这些硬通货来自朝鲜向中国、俄罗斯、东南亚、中东和非洲地区的工厂、建筑工地及伐木营地等工作地点派遣的成千上万名工人。