HONG KONG — Amid fears that North Korea is rapidly developing its submarine-launched ballistic missile technology, the United States, Japan and South Korea are teaming up for a drill to track such hard-to-detect missiles, military officials said Monday.
香港——军方在周一表示，出于对朝鲜潜射弹道导弹技术发展迅速的担忧，美国、日本、韩国联合举行了针对此类难以侦测的导弹的追踪演习。
The drill is taking place over two days in waters between Japan and the Korean Peninsula, said South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff, and will involve destroyers from the three nations doing computer-simulated training to track submarine missile launchings by North Korea.
韩国军方参谋长联席会议(Joint Chiefs of Staff)称，这次为期两天的军演在日本和朝鲜半岛之间的海域举行，三国还将派出驱逐舰参与计算机模拟演习，追踪朝鲜发射的潜射导弹。
The drills come in the wake of news reports that North Korea is making progress developing submarine-launched ballistic missiles, or SLBMs. The website 38 North, based at the U.S.-Korea Institute at Johns Hopkins University, obtained images of cylindrical objects, evidence that “suggests construction of a new submarine” at a facility on North Korea’s east coast.
就在本次军演前，有新闻报道指出朝鲜潜射弹道导弹(SLBM)研究取得进展。约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)美韩研究所的网站北纬38度(38 North)，得到了几幅圆柱形物体的图片，网站认为这是朝鲜正在东海岸一处设施内“进行新型潜艇建设”的证据。
Any North Korean capability to field submarine-launched ballistic missiles in open waters would be particularly worrying for the United States and its allies, since such missiles are hard to detect before launching. In August 2016, North Korea successfully tested such a missile from near its submarine base in Sinpo, sending it 310 miles toward Japan in a launch that came after several failed tests.
朝鲜拥有在开阔水域发射潜射弹道导弹的能力尤其令美国及其盟友担忧，因为人们难以在发射前侦测到此类导弹。在数次实验失败后，朝鲜于2016年8月在新浦(Sinpo)海军基地附近成功试验了此类型的导弹发射，在发射中，导弹朝日本方向飞行了310英里（约500公里）。
The military maneuvers come a week after the United States and South Korea began holding joint drills that included flyovers of advanced stealth fighters and B1-B Lancer bombers over the Korean Peninsula, exercises that led North Korea to accuse the United States of pushing the region “to the brink of nuclear war.”
美日韩此次联合军演在美韩联合军演的一周后。美韩联合军演派出了先进的隐形战斗机和B1-B“枪骑兵”(B1-B Lancer)轰炸机飞临朝鲜半岛，朝鲜谴责美国将该地区推向“核战爆发的边缘”。
To step up pressure, South Korea on Monday imposed a new round of sanctions on 20 North Korean groups and 12 individuals. The sanctions, an effort to curtail North Korea’s missile and nuclear weapons programs, were imposed in retaliation for the North’s launching of a missile in late November that experts said was capable of hitting much of the continental United States.
为了进一步施压，韩国于周一实施了新一轮制裁，将20家朝鲜机构和12名朝鲜人列入了制裁名单。韩国希望这次制裁能遏制朝鲜的导弹和核武器计划，它是对朝鲜11月底发射导弹的报复，专家称，该导弹有打至大部分美国本土的能力。
Separately, Nikki R. Haley, the American envoy to the United Nations, said over the weekend that the United States would send a full delegation of athletes to the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February. Her remarks on “Fox News Sunday” came days after she sowed doubt about participation in the Games by saying it was an “open question” whether American athletes would participate, given the tensions on the Korean Peninsula.
另外，美国驻联合国大使尼基·R·黑利(Nikki R. Haley)在周末表示，美国将派出完整的运动员代表队参加韩国2月举办的冬奥会。在对是否参赛表现出犹豫的几天之后，她才在“福克斯周日新闻”(Fox News Sunday)上表态。她曾表示，鉴于朝鲜半岛的紧张形势，美国运动员是否会参赛是一个“有待决定”的问题。