PARIS — By attacking civilian targets well beyond its territory, the Islamic State has seemingly accomplished what diplomats had failed to do. Suddenly, the international order has been scrambled, drawing the United States, Russia and France together in a possible alliance against the terrorist group.
巴黎——通过对远离其领土的平民目标发动袭击，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)看来完成了外交官未能做到的事情。突然间，国际秩序紧急组合，把美国、俄罗斯和法国聚集为一个可能一同对付这一恐怖组织的联盟。
Each of the three longtime powers now has its own reasons for wanting to destroy the Islamic State after the pitiless attacks on civilians in Paris and the downing of a Russian passenger jet carrying vacationers. President Obama has provided intelligence to facilitate French airstrikes and suggested he was open to more cooperation with Russia.
在发生了对巴黎平民的无情袭击、以及制造了一架载有度假者的俄罗斯客机的坠毁事件之后，这三个长期的军事强国现在有各自的理由要摧毁伊斯兰国。奥巴马总统已经为法国的空袭提供了情报，他还暗示愿意与俄罗斯加强合作。
But so far, that alliance remains largely theoretical. Even as President François Hollande of France takes on the role of bridge builder with back-to-back trips next week to Washington and Moscow, powerful centrifugal forces are still pulling the would-be partners apart as competing national interests challenge efforts to translate that newly shared aspiration into a sustained collaboration over time.
但是，到目前为止，这个联盟在很大程度上仍只在理论上存在。虽然法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)下周将先后访问华盛顿和莫斯科，充当搭建桥梁的角色，但强大的离心力仍在把这些想成为合作伙伴的国家拉开，它们相互竞争的国家利益，对把这一新的共同愿望转化为一个可长期合作的努力来说，仍是一个挑战。
Mr. Obama and President Vladimir V. Putin harbor fundamental disagreements over a host of issues that have not been dissolved by the Paris attacks. Dividing them are the Russian annexation of Crimea and its meddling in eastern Ukraine, Moscow’s efforts to demonize Washington and undermine confidence in NATO’s commitment to collective defense, and the Kremlin’s support of President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.
奥巴马与俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)在许多问题上有着根本的分歧，这些分歧并未被巴黎袭击事件消除。在他们之间制造分歧的问题包括，俄罗斯吞并克里米亚及其在乌克兰东部的干涉，莫斯科妖魔化华盛顿及动摇北约对集体防御承诺的信心的努力，还有克里姆林宫对叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的支持。
“It’s certainly a good thing for us and a good thing for France if we have a more coordinated approach toward these airstrikes in Syria,” said Karen Donfried, a former White House adviser to Mr. Obama who is now the president of the German Marshall Fund of the United States. “But how committed Russia really is about taking on the Islamic State, I don’t think any of us really knows. I remain really skeptical that our interests converge here.”
“如果我们在对叙利亚进行的这些空袭上有更协调一致的做法，这对我们当然是一件好事，对法国也是一件好事，”奥巴马的前白宫顾问、德国马歇尔基金会(German Marshall Fund of the United States)现任主席卡伦·唐弗丽德(Karen Donfried)说。“但是，俄罗斯对与伊斯兰国较量究竟有多大决心，我认为我们没人真正知道。我对我们的利益在这里交汇仍持极大的怀疑态度。”
Strobe Talbott, the president of the Brookings Institution and a former deputy secretary of state, said any real alliance would require a seismic change in the Russians’ approach toward Syria, where they say they are trying to fight terrorism but appear more bent on preserving Mr. Assad.
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)会长、曾担任副国务卿的斯特罗布·塔尔博特(Strobe Talbott)说，任何真正的联盟都将需要俄罗斯人在对叙利亚的做法上有巨大的改变，俄罗斯人说，他们正试图在叙利亚打击恐怖主义，但看上去更像是想保住阿萨德。
“Maybe it’s getting through to them,” Mr. Talbott said. “They keep talking about being part of a solution. But they talk the talk of being part of the solution and they walk the walk of being part of the problem.”
“也许他们正在接受这个看法，”塔尔博特说。“他们一直说要成为解决方案的一部分。但他们也只是在嘴上说，他们所做的事情却成为问题的一部分。”
Just how complicated assembling such a coalition would be was underscored Wednesday when French diplomats at the United Nations began discussions with colleagues on the Security Council on a draft measure authorizing force against the Islamic State. The French ambassador, François Delattre, described it as “short, strong and focused on the fight against our common enemy.”
形成一个这样的联盟究竟有多复杂，这在周三得到充分的表现。法国驻联合国的外交官周三开始与安理会的同事们讨论授权用武力对付伊斯兰国的草案。法国大使弗朗索瓦·德拉特(Francois Delattre)将草案形容为“简明、强悍，焦点是与我们的共同敌人作战。”
But just as France prepared to share its measure with council diplomats, Russia floated a proposal of its own, resurrecting a draft resolution that went nowhere earlier this fall because it insisted on cooperating with the government of countries affected by terrorism — in Syria’s case, with Mr. Assad. Vitaly I. Churkin, the Russian ambassador, said failing to work with the government “is definitely weakening the possibility of a joint fight against terrorists.”
然而，正当法国准备把其草案提交给安理会外交官们时，俄罗斯提出了自己的建议，试图让今秋早些时候毫无进展的一份决议草案复活。该草案坚持要与受恐怖主义困扰的各国政府合作，在叙利亚的情况下，指的就是阿萨德。俄罗斯驻联合国大使维塔利·I·丘尔金(Vitaly I. Churkin)说，不与政府合作“必定削弱对恐怖主义联合作战的可能性。”
Aides said privately that Mr. Obama was skeptical, but in meetings in Turkey, the Philippines, Austria and Paris over the last few days, he and his secretary of state, John Kerry, have held their reservations and broached the possibility of Russia and the United States working together to defeat the Islamic State.
助手们私下里说，虽然奥巴马对联盟持怀疑态度，但过去几天里在土耳其、菲律宾、奥地利以及巴黎举行的会议上，奥巴马及其国务卿约翰·克里保留了这些意见。他们开始讨论俄罗斯和美国共同努力以击败伊斯兰国的可能性。
After meeting with Mr. Putin last weekend in Turkey, Mr. Obama said in Manila on Wednesday that Russia had been “a constructive partner” in talks in Vienna seeking a road map for a cease-fire in the Syrian civil war that has given rise to the Islamic State. But for further cooperation, he said, Mr. Putin must direct less at the Syrian rebels supported by the United States and more at the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
上周末在土耳其与普京会晤后，奥巴马周三在马尼拉表示，在维也纳举行的会谈中，俄罗斯已成为“一个建设性的伙伴”，会谈是为给叙利亚内战停火寻找一个路线图，叙利亚内战导致了伊斯兰国的产生。但奥巴马说，要进一步合作的话，普京必须减少对美国支持的叙利亚反政府武装的打击，把火力更多地转向伊斯兰国（又名ISIS、或ISIL）。
“The problem has been in their initial military incursion into Syria, they have been more focused on propping up President Assad,” Mr. Obama said. If Mr. Putin “shifts his focus and the focus of his military to what is the principal threat, which is ISIL, then that is what we want to see.”
“这个问题在他们最初军事介入叙利亚时就已经存在，他们更多地关注支撑阿萨德总统，”奥巴马说。如果普京“把他的注意力及其军队的注意力转移到主要的威胁之上，也就是ISIL的话，那才是我们希望看到的。”
Mr. Hollande, under enormous pressure at home after the attacks, is trying to take the diplomatic initiative. Sensing a chance for rapprochement, he plans to travel to Washington on Tuesday to meet with Mr. Obama, and then to Moscow to meet with Mr. Putin. Mr. Hollande said on Wednesday that he wants to forge “a large coalition” to act “decisively” against the Islamic State.
巴黎恐怖袭击之后，奥朗德在国内面临着巨大的压力，在外交方面，他正在试图采取主动。在意识到有一个和解的机会后，他打算下周二前往华盛顿与奥巴马总统见面，然后前往莫斯科会见普京总统。奥朗德在周三表示，他希望建立对伊斯兰国采取“坚决”行动的“一个大联盟”。
In pursuing such a coalition, Mr. Hollande was careful not to ask the NATO alliance to come to France’s defense under Article 5, which obligates members to aid one another in case of attack. That article has been invoked only once, after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States.
为了寻求建立这种联盟，奥朗德谨慎地选择了不要求北约组织启用第5条款给予法国防御支持，该条款要求成员国之一受到攻击时，其他成员国为其提供帮助。该条款只启用过一次，是在2001年9月11日美国发生恐怖袭击之后。
Given Mr. Obama’s adamant resistance to putting large numbers of American ground forces in Syria or Iraq, a French diplomat said on Wednesday that Paris was unwilling to embarrass Mr. Obama by “asking for the impossible.”
鉴于奥巴马坚决抵制将大量美国地面部队派遣到叙利亚或伊拉克，一名法国外交官本周三表示，巴黎不愿意为难奥巴马，向他提出“不可能的要求”。
Instead, to broaden France’s diplomatic support, Mr. Hollande invoked an unusual article in the Lisbon Treaty governing the European Union. Article 42.7 states that if a member is subject to “armed aggression on its territory” other members have an “obligation of aid and assistance by all the means in their power” consistent with their obligations to NATO.
为了替法国争取更多的外交支持，奥朗德援引了欧盟基石《里斯本条约》(Lisbon Treaty)中一项不寻常条款。第42.7条规定，如果欧盟成员“在其领土上遭受武装侵略”，其他成员“有义务动用权限内的一切手段进行支援和协助”，这与他们对北约的义务是一样的。
Asked on Twitter why France invoked the European Union treaty and not the NATO charter, Gérard Araud, the French ambassador to Washington, wrote that one reason was “the dialogue with Russia.” The implication was that Russia is hostile toward NATO and therefore invoking the alliance’s aid might be provocative toward Moscow.
当在Twitter上被问及为什么法国援引欧盟条约而不是北约章程时，法国驻联合国大使热拉尔·阿罗(Gérard Araud)写道，原因之一是“与俄罗斯的对话”。言下之意是，俄罗斯对北约存有敌意，因此向北约求助可能会开罪莫斯科。
The European Union countries voted unanimously to support France, but the treaty does not commit them to military action and intelligence sharing is already well developed. No other European country has been willing to confront Islamic radicalism as the French have, at home and in Mali, Iraq and Syria.
欧盟国家一致投票支持法国，但该条约并没有说他们一定要参与军事行动，而情报共享工作本来就已经很完善。欧洲没有哪个国家像法国这么愿意在本国、马里、伊拉克和叙利亚对抗伊斯兰极端主义。
Even Britain, still bruised from its participation in the Iraq invasion of 2003, has not been willing to strike inside Syria. Prime Minister David Cameron has promised to seek approval from Parliament before action in Syria and to proceed only if he has “a clear majority.” The election of Jeremy Corbyn, the new hard-left Labour Party leader, has not made that easier.
英国2003年参与过入侵伊拉克，留下的伤口至今未愈，即便是英国也不愿意在叙利亚境内开展打击行动。首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)已经承诺，在叙利亚采取行动之前会向议会寻求批准，只有在获得“明显多数”票时才会开始行动。而极左翼工党领袖杰里米·科尔宾(Jeremy Corbyn)的新近当选让这一目标愈发遥远。
The United States, Europe and Russia have had moments since the Cold War when their interests converged. Walter Slocombe, a former under secretary of defense, recalled that the American and Russian militaries worked together in Bosnia and Kosovo. In Bosnia, he said, “it worked out O.K., but that was a different Russia and an almost totally benign environment.”
自冷战以来，美国、欧洲和俄罗斯曾出现过一些利益相交汇的时刻。前国防部副部长瓦尔特·斯洛科姆(Walter Slocombe)想起美国军队和俄罗斯军队在波斯尼亚和科索沃合作的经历。他表示，在波斯尼亚，“合作很顺利，但那是一个不一样的俄罗斯 ，而且有一个几乎完全平和的环境。”
The Obama administration is suspicious that beyond bolstering Mr. Assad, Russia’s real goal in Syria is taking attention off Ukraine — in effect, trading the status quo for collaboration in the Middle East. “Are we willing to give up on Ukraine?” asked Ivo H. Daalder, Mr. Obama’s former ambassador to NATO and now president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs. “I’m worried that we fall in this trap.”
奥巴马政府怀疑，除了支持阿萨德，俄罗斯在叙利亚开展行动的真正目标是转移对乌克兰的关注——实际上是以在中东开展合作换取保持现状的结果。“我们愿意放弃乌克兰吗？” 美国前驻北约大使、芝加哥全球事务委员会(Chicago Council on Global Affairs)现任主席伊沃·H·达尔德(Ivo H. Daalder)说。“我担心我们会掉入这个陷阱。”
Beyond the United States, Russia and Europe, there are other players in Syria, particularly Turkey, Iran, Iraq and Saudi Arabia. Mr. Kerry has worked to forge a consensus among them. But as Mr. Daalder said, “except for France and the United States, at this point no one thinks going after ISIS is the first priority.”
除了美国、叙利亚和欧洲，参与叙利亚问题的还有其他国家，特别是土耳其、伊朗、伊拉克和沙特阿拉伯。克里曾努力推动这些国家达成共识。但达尔德表示，“除了法国和美国以外，现在没有哪个国家将攻打伊斯兰国视作首要任务。”