RIO DE JANEIRO — Ryan Lochte, an Olympic gold medalist in swimming, and three of his U.S. teammates were held up at gunpoint here early Sunday, according to the U.S. Olympic Committee, heightening anxiety over violent crime in the host city of the Summer Games.
里约热内卢——美国奥林匹克委员会表示，周日清晨，奥运会游泳冠军瑞安·罗切特(Ryan Lochte)和三名美国游泳队队友在里约热内卢遭遇持枪抢劫。这一事件增加了外界对这座夏季奥运会举办城市暴力犯罪问题的担忧。
Crime was already a top concern before the Rio Games began, as Brazil’s economic crisis deepened, pushing up unemployment and poverty rates. The Rio state government deployed a huge security force, and the streets surrounding the Olympic Park and the athletes’ village sometimes look like military compounds.
在里约奥运会开幕之前，犯罪就已经成为这里最令人关切的问题。随着巴西的经济危机加深，该国失业率和贫困率也进一步提高。里约州政府部署了大批安全部队，奥林匹克公园和奥运村周边街道有时看起来犹如军事区。
But, nonetheless, crimes have occurred more frequently than at other recent Olympics. On the night of the opening ceremony, the chief of security was mugged at knife point. Two coaches for Australia’s rowing team were attacked and robbed in the Ipanema neighborhood, while some Olympians were robbed of belongings in the athletes’ village during a fire drill. Bullets have landed in the equestrian venue, and a bus carrying members of the news media was attacked, its windows shattered.
但即便如此，这一届奥运会上发生的犯罪行为还是比最近其他几届出现得更加频繁。在开幕式当晚，里约奥运会安全主管便遭遇持刀抢劫。澳大利亚赛艇队的两名教练在伊帕内马区遭到了袭击和抢劫，有些运动员则在奥运村内进行消防演习期间被劫走私人物品。有子弹落在马术比赛的赛道上，一辆载有新闻机构工作人员的大巴遭袭，窗户被打碎。
On Sunday, Rio Olympics officials were confronted with the most high-profile crime yet.
到了周日，里约奥运会官员不得不直面迄今为止最引人注目的犯罪活动。
Besides Lochte, the other U.S. swimmers robbed, according to a statement from the committee, were Gunnar Bentz, Jack Conger and Jimmy Feigen.
美国奥委会的声明显示，除了罗切特，其他被劫的美国游泳运动员包括贡纳尔·本茨(Gunnar Bentz)、杰克·康格(Jack Conger)和吉米·费根(Jimmy Feigen)。
“Their taxi was stopped by individuals posing as armed police officers who demanded the athletes’ money and other personal belongings,” a spokesman for the USOC said. “All four athletes are safe and cooperating with authorities.”
“他们乘坐的出租车被假扮成武警的人拦下，这些人要走了运动员身上的钱和其他一些个人物品，”美国奥委会的发言人说。“四名运动员目前均安全无恙，正在配合当局调查。”
Lochte told NBC News that one of the men had put a cocked gun to his head.
罗切特告诉NBC新闻频道，其中一人曾用一支上了膛的手枪指着他的脑袋。
“We got pulled over, in the taxi, and these guys came out with a badge, a police badge — no lights, no nothing, just a police badge — and they pulled us over,” he said. “They pulled out their guns, they told the other swimmers to get down on the ground — they got down on the ground. I refused — I was like, we didn’t do anything wrong, so — I’m not getting down on the ground.
“我们在出租车里被拦了下来，这些家伙拿着一枚警徽走过来——没有灯，什么也没有，只亮出一枚警徽——让我们停到一边，”他说。“他们掏出手枪，让其他几名游泳运动员趴下——他们趴到了地上。我拒绝了——我是觉得，我们没做错什么，所以——我不会趴到地上。”
“And then the guy pulled out his gun, he cocked it, put it to my forehead, and he said, ‘Get down,’ and I put my hands up. I was like, whatever. He took our money, he took my wallet — he left my cellphone, he left my credentials.”
“接着，有个家伙就掏出枪，上了膛，把枪口对准我的前额，然后说，‘趴下’，我就把手举了起来。感觉是，随你的便。他拿走了我们的钱，拿走了我的钱包——把我的手机留下了，证件留下了。”
“I think they’re all shaken up,” Ileana Lochte, the swimmer’s mother, told USA Today. “They just took their wallets, and basically that was it.”
“我觉得他们都受到了惊吓，”这名游泳运动员的母亲伊莱亚娜·罗切特(Ileana Lochte)在接受《今日美国》(USA Today)采访时表示。“这帮人直接抢走了他们的钱包，基本上就是这样。”
Bentz and Conger participated in the heats of the 4x200-meter freestyle relay, but not the final. Feigen did the same in the 4x100-meter relay.
本茨和康格参加了4x200米自由泳接力的预赛，但没有在决赛中出场。费根在4x100米接力赛中也是如此。
Lochte won a gold medal in the 4x200-meter freestyle relay and finished fifth in the 200-meter individual medley, his only individual event. The swimming competition at the Rio Games had concluded Saturday night.
罗切特在4x200米自由泳接力赛中获得一枚金牌，在200米个人混合泳比赛中获得第五名的成绩——这是他唯一一项个人赛事。里约奥运会游泳项目的比赛在周六晚间全部结束。
Lochte initially denied reports of the robbery through Olympic officials.
罗切特最初通过奥委会官员否认遭到了抢劫。
At a news conference Sunday, another American swimmer, Ryan Murphy, mentioned the multiple security briefings the team had received before the games. “I think we all trust our security guys, and they’ve done a great job,” he said.
在周日举行的新闻发布会上，另一名美国游泳运动员瑞安·墨菲(Ryan Murphy)提到，在奥运会开赛之前，游泳队收到过多份安全通报。“我想我们都信任安全工作人员，他们做得很好，”他说。
A spokesman for U.S.A. Swimming declined at the news conference to specify what instructions those briefings had provided but noted that they had included tips on transportation in Rio.
美国游泳队的发言人拒绝在新闻发布会上具体说明这些安全通报提供了哪些指导，不过他指出，其中包括关于里约交通出行的一些提示。
Conflicting accounts of the taxi episode had swirled on Sunday morning, after a spokesman for the International Olympic Committee said that reports of the robbery were “absolutely not true,” citing information that had been provided by the U.S. committee.
周日上午接连出现了有关这次出租车事件的几种相互矛盾的描述。国际奥委会的发言人曾表示，有关该抢劫事件的报道“绝对不是真的”。他援引的是美国奥委会提供的信息。
After Ileana Lochte’s statements that her son had indeed been robbed, the IOC spokesman said he had simply passed along information from the U.S. Olympic officials. “They said they spoke to Lochte, and he said it wasn’t true,” the spokesman said. “I guess that may change.”
在伊莱亚娜·罗切特声称自己的儿子的确遭遇了抢劫之后，国际奥委会发言人表示，之前他只是转达美国奥委会官员提供的信息。“他们说他们和罗切特谈过了，他说不是真的，”这名发言人表示。“我猜情况可能又发生了变化。”
Ryan Lochte’s Twitter feed was silent on the matter; his last post was made Saturday, a picture of him with the snowboarder Shaun White. He did not respond Sunday to a request for comment.
瑞安·罗切特没有在Twitter上提及此事；他最后一篇帖子发布于周六，是一张他和滑雪运动员肖恩·怀特(Shaun White)的合影。他没有回应时报在周日发出的置评请求。
David Marsh, Ryan Lochte’s coach, referred inquiries to U.S.A. Swimming, which did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
瑞安·罗切特的教练戴维·马什(David Marsh)将置评请求转给了美国游泳队。后者也没有立刻做出回应。