WASHINGTON — Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky acknowledged Tuesday that “mistakes” in his office had caused unattributed writing by others to appear in his own work and announced that he was instituting safeguards to prevent such breaches from happening again.
华盛顿——本周二，肯塔基州参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)承认，其办公室所犯的“错误”，导致他的文章里出现了他人的文本，而并未指出来源。他宣称，自己正在制定防护措施，避免类似的侵权行为再次发生。
While maintaining the defiance he has shown since the claims of plagiarism were first made last week, Mr. Paul hurriedly took steps to contain the biggest crisis of his young political career, one that threatens his ambitions to run for president in 2016. He said he was putting in place a more diligent system within his office to footnote and attribute material, part of what he called a restructuring on his staff. He said there would be no firings.
自抄袭指控上周首次出现以来，保罗就表现出了一副不屑一顾的姿态。尽管仍在维持这样的姿态，但他还是匆匆采取措施，来控制他刚刚开始的政治生涯中最大的危机，这场危机威胁到了他在2016年竞选总统的雄心。他说，自己正在办公室里设立一个更严密系统，给文字标明脚注，并指出引用的来源。这是他所说的人员重组工作的一部分，他说不会解雇办公室里的任何人。
But, in an interview at his Senate office complex, Mr. Paul said he resented implications from those he termed “haters” that he had sought to dishonestly take other people’s work as his own. Facing a cascading series of accusations that he used plagiarized material in speeches, an opinion article and a book, he said the lapses were the result of his newfound status as a freshman senator in high demand, and the overwhelming workload that has brought with it for him and his staff.
不过，在参议院办公大楼内进行的一次采访中，保罗表示，对于那些声称他试图以不诚实的手法，把别人的工作成果据为己有的说法，他十分厌恶。他表示那些说法都是“仇恨”他的人提出的。面对一系列指控，他说，错误发生的原因是，作为备受关注的新参议员，公众对他期待甚高，而这个身份给他和幕僚带来了难以承受的工作量。上述指控说他在多次演讲、一篇观点文章和一本书里使用了抄袭材料。
“What we are going to do from here forward, if it will make people leave me the hell alone, is we’re going to do them like college papers,” he said. “We’re going to try to put out footnotes.” He said that “we have made mistakes,” but that they had “never been intentional.”
“如果能让那些人别再纠缠我，那么我们从今往后要做的，就是像对待大学论文那样对待这些材料。我们会努力都标上脚注。”他说，“我们犯了错误”，不过“绝不是有意的”。
“This is coming from haters to begin with,” he said, “because they want the implication to be out there that you’re dishonest.” That sentiment then “bleeds over into regular press,” he said.
他表示，“首先，提出这件事的是仇恨我的人，因为他们想把你不诚实的印象散播开来。”他说，而后这种情绪就会“泛滥开来，成为报纸上常见的话题”。
The questions about Mr. Paul’s writings, starting with disclosures that some of his speeches had borrowed from Wikipedia, threatened to undercut his relatively newfound status as an intellectually rooted libertarian Republican vying to lead his party into the post-Obama, post-Bush era. They were of a sort that caused Joseph R. Biden Jr. to drop his Democratic primary campaign in 1988, when, as a young senator, he used words from a speech by Neil Kinnock, then the Labour Party leader in Britain, without attribution. (He also admitted plagiarizing a law review article for a law school paper.) 
问题的开端是，保罗的一些演讲被指借用了维基百科(Wikipedia)的内容。这些质疑有可能影响他相对而言新近取得的地位——一位有知识根基、持自由意志论立场的共和党人，而且正在为领导自己的政党进入后奥巴马、后布什时代而奋力竞争。这次抄袭丑闻和导致小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)在1988年放弃民主党初选的抄袭事件很相似。当时，作为一名年轻的参议员，拜登使用了时任英国工党(Labour Party)领袖尼尔·基诺克(Neil Kinnock)的演讲词，却没有指名出处。（他还承认，在撰写法学院的一篇论文时，抄袭了法学期刊里的一篇文章。）
Mr. Paul’s handling of the disclosures was being watched by his Senate colleagues and by strategists and potential donors to a 2016 national run. Some said they viewed it as a test of whether he could cope with the intensity of a campaign and the presidency itself.
保罗对爆料的抄袭事件的处理，受到了参议院同僚、策略师，以及打算资助他2016年在全国开展竞选活动的潜在捐款人的关注。一些人表示，他们把此事当作保罗能否应对激烈的竞选活动，以及能否承担总统重任的一次测试。
“I think when you have a high visibility in America politically, you’ve got to understand that you undergo scrutiny that you don’t even as a senator,” said Senator John McCain of Arizona, the Republican Party’s presidential nominee in 2008 and a frequent sparring partner of Mr. Paul. He added that he was hesitant to judge the political fallout Mr. Paul could face until he knew “how much there is of it.”
亚利桑那州参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)说，“我认为，当你在美国成了高度引人注目的政治人物，你就必须明白，得经受连身为参议员都不会受到的严密监督。”麦凯恩是2008年的共和党总统候选人，时常和保罗发生争执。他还说，在了解清楚“抄袭指控有多少内容属实之前”，他觉得自己不该就保罗可能面对怎样的政治后果作出判断。
Mr. Paul, when asked if he believed that the accusations could turn off some presidential supporters, indicated that the degree of what he termed “unfair criticism” might factor into whether he decides to run.
在被问及是否认为这些指责会让一些人不再支持他竞选总统时，保罗表示这些“不公正的批评”的程度或许会影响他是否参选的决定。
“It’s also what people hate about politics, and it’s why, frankly, members of my family are not too interested in politics, period, or wanting me to do more of this,” he said. “To tell you the truth, people can think what they want, I can go back to being a doctor anytime, if they’re tired of me. I’ll go back to being a doctor, and I’ll be perfectly content.”
“这也是为什么人们讨厌政治，而且说实话，我的家人对政治不怎么感兴趣。嗯，就是这样。他们也不想让我在这条路上走得更远，”保罗说。“跟你说老实话，别人爱怎么想就怎么想，要是人们厌烦了我，我随时都可以回去当医生。我要是回去当医生，也照样会很满足。”
On a day when one potential rival for the Republican nomination, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, was expected to win re-election overwhelmingly, Mr. Paul was fending off a new disclosure that came Monday night, this one served up by BuzzFeed. The site reported that an op-ed article Mr. Paul wrote for The Washington Times in September on mandatory minimum prison sentences appeared to have copied language from an essay that had been published in the magazine The Week.
新泽西州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)可能会与保罗竞争共和党总统候选人提名。而就在人们预测，克里斯蒂会以压倒性优势赢得连任之际，保罗却需要回击周一晚间爆出的最新一波负面消息。这次的消息来自网站BuzzFeed，指保罗9月为《华盛顿时报》撰写的一篇观点文章，从《一周》杂志(The Week)上发表过的一篇文章里抄袭了内容。
That article, written by Dan Stewart, an editor for the magazine, included this sentence: “America now jails a higher percentage of its citizens than any other country, including China and Iran, at the staggering cost of $80 billion a year.” It was posted on the web on Sept. 14.
那篇文章是《一周》杂志的编辑丹·斯图尔特(Dan Stewart)撰写的，文中写道：“现在美国监狱在押人员在公民中占的比例，比其他任何国家都高，包括中国和伊朗，每年耗资惊人，高达800亿美元。”这篇文章是9月14日发表在网上的。
On Sept. 20, Mr. Paul wrote this: “America now jails a higher percentage of its citizens than any other country, including China and Iran, at the staggering cost of $80 billion a year.”
9月20日，保罗写道：“现在美国监狱在押人员在公民中占的比例，比其他任何国家都高，包括中国和伊朗，每年耗资惊人，高达800亿美元。”
The Washington Times said Tuesday that it was canceling Mr. Paul’s column by mutual agreement.
《华盛顿时报》周二表示，经双方同意，将撤销保罗的专栏。
Mr. Paul made it clear that he took that example more seriously than the previous disclosures. The first of those came last week on the MSNBC show of Rachel Maddow. She highlighted a speech from last Monday that used parts of the Wikipedia description of the 1990s movie “Gattaca,” which was based on a science fiction future in which societal standing is determined through DNA testing.
保罗明确表示，他对这起事件的态度，比对过去爆出的负面消息更为严肃。那一系列负面消息中的第一则，是上周MSNBC主播雷切尔·玛多(Rachel Maddow)在节目中揭露出的。她着重提到，上周一的一次演讲中，保罗借用了维基百科对20世纪90年代的电影《千钧一发》(Gattaca)的描述。这部电影的背景是，在一个科幻的未来世界，社会地位是通过DNA检测来确定的。
On Tuesday, Mr. Paul argued that that did not technically represent plagiarism. “Trying to say someone commits plagiarism, you’re saying that someone is dishonest,” he said. “And, well, it would be dishonest if I tried to say, ‘Oh, I had this great idea for a movie, and this is my idea, and this is a story I wrote in college called ‘Gattaca.’ ”
周二，保罗辩称，严格意义上讲那不算抄袭。“想说某人抄袭，言下之意是这个人不诚实，”他说。“可是，我要是说，‘我有一个超棒的想法，可以拿去拍电影，这可是我自己的想法，我上大学时写的《千钧一发》就是这样的故事，’才能算是不诚实。”
Mr. Paul said that the unattributed passages of his Washington Times article were the result of life at the speed of a newly minted national political figure, and that the article had been adapted from a speech, which was one of the reasons it was not vetted.
保罗表示，《华盛顿时报》文章中未指出来源的段落之所以会出现，是因为其近期迅速成为全国性政治人物所带来的忙乱。而且那篇文章改编自一则演讲，这也是行文没有经过检查的一个原因。
Kevin Madden, a communications aide to Mitt Romney’s presidential campaign, said Mr. Paul should not expect that sort of pressure to lessen any time soon. “This is what it looks like when you move from having just a Kentucky profile or just a Capitol Hill profile to building a national profile,” he said.
米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)竞选总统时负责文宣的助手凯文·马登(Kevin Madden)说，保罗不要指望这种压力在未来不长的时间里消失。他说，“他原来只在肯塔基州或国会山有知名度，现在正在取得全国知名度，于是就会出现这种情况。”