WASHINGTON — In an acknowledgment that the military may be pricing itself out of business, the Air Force on Wednesday called for a shift away from big-ticket weapon systems that take decades to develop and a move toward high-technology armaments that can be quickly adapted to meet a range of emerging threats.
华盛顿——本周三，美国空军发出呼吁，希望逐步放弃购买一些需要几十年时间来研制的天价武器系统，转而采购那些可以迅速投入使用的高科技军备，以应对多种正在显露的威胁；此举相当于是承认了军方可能会被费用问题拖垮。
An Air Force strategic forecast, looking 20 years into the future and spurred in part by looming budget constraints, also calls for a faster pace, with lower price tags, in developing both airmen and the technology they use, warning that the current way of acquiring warplanes and weapons is too plodding.
空军发布的这份战略预测报告展望了未来20年的道路，从一定程度上说，它是由迫在眉睫的预算约束所推动的。该报告还呼吁以更快的速度、更低的价格来培养飞行员，开发他们所使用的技术，此外它还警告称，目前采购战机和武器的方式太过沉重缓慢。
The report, described as a “call to action” by Secretary Deborah Lee James of the Air Force, limits itself to how the country’s most tech-heavy military service can adapt to looming threats and budget constraints. But it is also a warning to and an admission from the entire Defense Department that with military compensation and retirement costs rising sharply, the country may soon be unable to afford the military it has without making significant changes to the way it does business.
空军是美国科技含量最高的兵种，被空军部长德博拉·李·詹姆斯(Deborah Lee James)称为“行动号角”的这份报告，只谈及了空军可以如何适应迫在眉睫的威胁和预算约束的问题。不过，这也相当于是在对整个国防部(Defense Department)发出警告，以及整个国防部在向外界承认：随着军人薪酬及退休成本的大幅上升，如果不大幅改变军方的运作方式，美国可能很快就无力负担军事开支了。
“To boil this down, we have to buy things very differently and develop and employ our people differently,” said Maj. Gen. David W. Allvin, one of the authors of the report. “We have to behave more like an innovative 21st-century company.”
“总之，我们必须采购和之前大不相同的装备，并采用不同的方式招募人员，”该报告的合著者戴维·W·阿尔文(David W. Allvin)少将说，“我们必须表现得更像是一个具有创新性的、21世纪的公司。”
Between 1998 and 2014, annual compensation costs per active-duty service member increased by 76 percent, to $123,000, while the overall defense budget increased by 42 percent — yet, since 2010, the base Defense Department budget, not including spending on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, has been declining, according to the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. So far, the military has dealt with the sharp increase in personnel costs by cutting the number of service members, and has managed to keep expensive weapons acquisition and technology at the same percentage of the overall budget — around 30 percent — as personnel and maintenance and training.
从1998年到2014年，每个现役军人的年度薪酬成本增加了76%，达到12.3万美元（约合人民币80万元），而整体国防预算增加了42%——然而，美国战略与预算评估中心(Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments)的资料显示，自2010年以来，不包括在伊拉克和阿富汗战争上的支出，国防部的基础预算一直在下降。到目前为止，军方通过削减军人数量的方式，消化了人员成本的大幅增加，而且也设法保持昂贵的武器采购以及技术支出在总预算中的占比，和人员、维护、培训方面支出相同，大约在30%。
But with the Army, the largest branch in the military, now headed to its lowest personnel numbers since before the World War II buildup, Defense Department officials, particularly in the Army, warn that more cuts could bring increased risks to deployed service members. While the Air Force and Navy, with historic reliance on technology, are widely viewed as more willing to make personnel cuts than their Marine and Army counterparts, even officials in those services say there is a limit to how much more they are willing to reduce personnel.
但是，美国军队中最大的兵种陆军，人数已经降至自二战以来的最低水平，因此国防部官员、特别是陆军官员警告说，进一步削减人数可能会导致陆军部署方面的风险增大。虽然相较于海军陆战队和陆军，空军和海军历来对科技的依赖程度较高，被广泛认为是更愿意裁员，但就连空军和海军的官员也说，他们愿意进一步减员的数量有限。
But a potential gap between good intentions and spending reality remains, and it is unclear how serious the Air Force is about its call to move away from its focus on big, expensive weaponry, in particular advanced fighters and bombers. After all, the report is a long-range forecast that looks to change the culture of weapons development two decades or more down the road, so expensive weapons already in the pipeline remain relatively safe.
但是，良好的愿望和军费开支的现实之间仍然存在差距，空军一向聚焦在价格昂贵的大型武器上，特别是先进的战斗机和轰炸机，目前还不清楚空军对于转移这个侧重点的呼吁有多认真。毕竟，该报告是一个长期的预测，展望的是未来20年甚至更长的时期中武器开发文化的变化，因此已经开始研制的昂贵武器是不受影响的。
Over past decades, similar talk of streamlining the military has crashed into opposition from members of Congress, defense contractors and the military itself, which often work to protect bases, weapons systems and other budget pets. And calls for saving money by adopting new technologies are not new; Donald H. Rumsfeld, a former defense secretary, announced a goal of imposing “transformation” on the military to create a smaller, lighter, more agile — and cheaper — force, but his ideas were forced aside by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.
过去几十年中，类似的精简军队的呼吁遭到了国会议员、国防承包商和军方本身的反对；军方往往会努力维护基地、武器系统等“预算宠儿”。呼吁采用新技术来节约资金并不是什么新鲜事，前国防部长唐纳德·H·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald H. Rumsfeld)就宣布过要对军方进行“转型”，让军队变得规模更小、装备更轻、行动更敏捷-——费用也更低，但是2001年的9.11恐怖袭击，以及阿富汗和伊拉克的战争，导致他的想法被迫搁置。
For example, nowhere in the report is there mention of scaling back on the trouble-plagued F-35 jet fighter — in development for 14 years so far — which was temporarily grounded last month after another in a series of problems. Nor is there talk of getting rid the next generation long-range bomber, which the Air Force is working on for around $550 million per plane and which is expected to debut somewhere around the mid-2020s.
比如，该报告只字未提要缩减F-35喷气式战斗机项目。F-35麻烦缠身，迄今已经开发了14年之久；上个月，在又出了一系列问题之后，该项目被暂停。这份报告也没有谈及要取消下一代远程轰炸机项目，空军正在研制的这种轰炸机造价为每架5.5亿美元，首次亮相预计要等到2025年左右。
“They’re still going to buy the Joint Strike Fighter,” said Todd Harrison, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, referring to the F-35 warplane. “They’re getting squeezed, but they’re still going to buy the next generation bomber and the KC-46 tanker” for aerial refueling.
“他们还是会购买联合攻击战斗机(Joint Strike Fighter)，”战略与预算评估中心的高级研究员托德·哈里森(Todd Harrison)说，这是指F-35战机。“他们正在承受压力，但是仍然会购买下一代轰炸机以及用于空中加油的KC-46加油机。
Officials said Air Force weapons systems that could be targeted in the new shift — the Air Force is calling it “strategic agility” — is the next-generation replacement for the Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System, or J-Stars, a surveillance airplane that provides information on ground forces to commanders in the air and on the ground, as well as the replacement training aircraft — called TX — used to train pilots.
空军把新的重心转移称为“战略灵活性”，官员们说，可能会受此影响的空军武器系统有两种：一种是用于飞行员培训的训练机替代品，名为TX，另一种是联合监视目标攻击雷达系统（Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System，又称J-Stars）的下一代替代品。J-Stars是一种监视飞机，可以把地面部队的信息提供给空中和地面的指挥员。