HONG KONG — An American man who had been convicted of growing marijuana in Taiwan killed himself in a courtroom after he was sentenced to a four-year prison term, according to court officials.
香港——一名美国公民因在台湾种植大麻被判四年监禁，宣判后他当庭自杀。
The man, Tyrel Martin Marhanka, 41, slashed his throat with a pair of scissors on Thursday, the Changhua District Court said in a written statement. He was rushed to a hospital but could not be saved.
根据彰化地方法院公布的一份声明，41岁的李玛翰(Tyrel Martin Marhanka)在周四用一把剪刀割开了自己的喉咙。他立即被送往医院，但不治身亡。
He had been convicted of growing marijuana at his home in Changhua, in central Taiwan, and of importing marijuana and opium poppy seeds. A prison term of up to seven years was possible, but the court gave him a lesser sentence of four years because he had not sold marijuana and was growing it for his own use.
李玛翰因走私大麻及罂粟种子入境、在彰化家中种植大麻被定罪。彰化位于台湾中部。该罪行最高刑期为7年，但由于他种植大麻的目的系自用，并未进行售卖，法院轻判其四年监禁。
When a court interpreter told Mr. Marhanka the sentence, he replied, “Four years?” The Taipei Times reported, quoting witnesses. He said he did not want to appeal the decision.
《台北时报》(The Taipei Times)援引目击者报道称，在一名法庭翻译将判决结果告知李玛翰后，他回复称，“四年？”他表示自己不打算上诉。
“I don’t want to live anymore,” he said, before removing two metal objects, apparently the disassembled scissors, and cutting his neck, the newspaper reported.
报道称，李玛翰说：“我不想再活了，”随即拿出两片金属物——看起来是被拆卸的剪刀，割向自己的脖子。
The court said it felt “deep regret” at Mr. Marhanka’s death. An initial investigation found a magazine that he had seemingly used to conceal the scissors when he entered the court. A metal detector apparently did not uncover the scissors when he entered the building. The court said that the building did not have enough space for a more advanced scanner but that it would install X-ray machines in a new building.
法院称对李玛翰的死“深感遗憾”。初步调查发现，他在进入法庭时随身携带了一本杂志，剪刀很可能就被藏在杂志里。法庭的金属探测门并未报警。法院表示，由于空间不足，法庭区内没有设置更先进的扫描设备，但将在新院区安装X光扫描仪。
Mr. Marahanka was not in detention but had arrived at the court hearing voluntarily and did not show any outward indications of suicidal impulses, the court said. Mr. Marhanka had a wife and two children in Taiwan and had lived there for several years. He had worked as an English teacher, but his neighbors said he lost his job after he was charged, the Central News Agency reported.
法院还表示，庭审前李玛翰并未被拘押，他是自愿到庭听取判决的，也没有表现出有任何自杀倾向。据中央社(Central News Agency)报道，李玛翰在台湾已生活七年，有妻子及两个孩子。他曾是一名英语老师，但邻居称他被起诉后已经失业。
His death is likely to raise questions about security standards in Taiwan’s judicial system. Last year, inmates in a prison in southern Taiwan used scissors from a workshop to take guards hostage. They broke into a prison armory to seize firearms, which six of the inmates used to kill themselves, prompting calls for improved oversight.
李玛翰的死亡可能令台湾司法系统的安全标准受到质疑。去年，台湾南部一所监狱发生囚犯劫持人质事件，六名囚犯使用从劳动作坊中获得的剪刀挟持了守卫。他们闯入枪械室，夺走了一些枪支弹药，最终饮弹自尽。事件引发了加强监狱管理的呼吁。