EDGARTOWN, Mass. — A United States Special Operations team tried and failed to rescue James Foley and other Americans held hostage in Syria during a secret mission in early July authorized by President Obama, senior administration officials said Wednesday.
马萨诸塞州埃德加敦——奥巴马政府的高级官员在周三表示，总统曾于7月初批准美国特种作战部队(United States Special Operations)开展秘密行动，设法营救詹姆斯·福利(James Foley)及其他一些被困在叙利亚当人质的美国人，但以失败告终。
A day after Sunni militants posted a video showing Mr. Foley being beheaded, officials described what they called a “complicated operation” in which several dozen commandos were dropped into a remote area of Syria where American intelligence agencies believed several hostages were being held by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The officials said they believed a number of the terrorists were killed in the operation.
此前一天，逊尼派武装分子上传了一则视频，宣称其中展示的是福利被斩首。奥巴马政府的官员称，美国开展了一项“复杂的行动”，几十名突击队员空降叙利亚的一个偏远地区。美国情报机构认为，几名人质被伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria， 简称ISIS）扣押在该地区。官员们表示，他们确信一些恐怖分子在行动中丧命。
But when the Special Operations team arrived on the scene, the hostages were not there. Officials said the commandos exchanged fire with militants, and one American was slightly wounded when one of the United States aircraft came under fire.
不过，当特种部队到达目的地的时候，人质并不在那里。官员们称，突击队与武装分子展开交火，美国的一架飞机遭到攻击，导致一人轻微受伤。
All of the team members were evacuated successfully. “It was not ultimately successful because the hostages were not present at the location of the operation,” a senior administration official said, speaking on background about the mission. “We obviously wish this had been successful.”
所有队员均成功撤离。“最终没有成功，因为人质并不在那里，”一位不愿具名的政府高级官员说。“我们当然希望行动会成功。”
Officials declined to say exactly how many hostages they were trying to rescue or to provide the names of the people who they believed were being held captive by the militants. “I don’t want to get into our assessment of specific names on that score,” one official said.
官员们拒绝说明他们到底试图营救多少名人质，也拒绝提供据信被武装分子劫持的人员的姓名。一名官员表示。“在这方面，我不想提及我们对具体姓名的估计。”
The administration said the decision to release information about the rescue attempt was made as some news organizations prepared to reveal the mission’s existence. The officials said they had kept the mission secret for a number of weeks in an attempt to “preserve future opportunities” to conduct another rescue operation.
奥巴马政府表示，一些媒体机构准备曝光这项秘密任务，因此政府作出了公布救援行动相关信息的决定。官员们称，他们之所以将任务隐瞒了数周，是为了“保住未来”实施另一项救援行动的“机会”。
Officials would not provide the location of the mission, but noted that if it had taken place in or near a heavily populated area, it would likely to have been noticed before now. The officials also declined to describe the location, saying in part that the militants on the ground may not have been aware that the mission was a rescue attempt. To describe the location precisely might give that fact away, they said.
官员们不愿提供任务的实施地点，但他们指出，假如是在人口聚集区或周边地区实施行动，可能之前就会被注意到。官员们还拒绝描述该位置的情况，称在某种程度上当地的武装分子可能不知道这是一场救援行动。他们称，详细的描述可能会泄露这一点。
The administration did not know whether the hostages had never been in the location that intelligence had pointed to, or if they had been moved just before the American team arrived, officials said. “The truth is we don’t know,” one official said. “When we got there, they weren’t there. We don’t know why that is.”
官员们称，奥巴马政府不知道人质究竟是从未被囚禁在情报指向的地点，还是在美方人员抵达之前被转移到了别处。“事实上，我们也不清楚，”一名官员说。“我们到达那里时，他们不在那里。我们不知道是何原因。”
The mission was authorized by Mr. Obama after intelligence from a variety of sources suggested a location where the hostages were being held, officials said.
官员们表示，这次任务由奥巴马授权，此前，各种来源的情报都指向了同一位置，显示人质就在那里。
They added that the breadth of the intelligence gave them confidence to go ahead with the rescue. The mission was conducted by a joint force, officials said, that included members from all of the military services. The Special Operations soldiers, about two dozen of them, were dropped onto the ground by helicopters and were supported overhead by helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft, the officials said.
他们接着说，这一情报的来源颇为广泛，让他们有了开展营救的信心。实施行动的是一个联合部队，由军方各个部门的成员组成。官员称，约有20几名特种作战部队士兵乘直升机空降至地面，由直升机和固定翼飞机在空中为其提供支援。
“We do believe there were a good number of ISIL casualties as a result of this operation,” an official said, using an alternative acronym for the militants that stands for the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant.
“我们确信，在这次行动中，ISIL有相当人数的死伤，”一名官员说。ISIL是这些激进分子的另一个缩写，代表的是“伊拉克与黎凡特伊斯兰国”(Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant)。
Intelligence is not “an exact science,” said the officials, describing a “layered procedure” in which the agencies built a picture of where they thought the hostages might be.
情报不是“一种严谨的科学，”官员们描述，而是一个“层层叠加的过程”，在这一过程中，情报部门逐步建立起对人质地点的认识。