A prominent hacker set to be sentenced in federal court this week for breaking into numerous computer systems worldwide has provided a trove of information to the authorities, allowing them to disrupt at least 300 cyberattacks on targets that included the United States military, Congress, the federal courts, NASA and private companies, according to a newly filed government court document.
由于入侵全球各地的大量计算机系统，一位知名黑客将于本周接受联邦法院的判决。政府新提交的一份法庭文件显示，此人为当局提供了大量宝贵信息，帮助他们迎击了至少300次网络攻击。这些攻击的目标包括美国军方、国会、联邦法院、美国国家航空航天局(NASA)和一些私人公司。
The hacker, Hector Xavier Monsegur, also helped the authorities dismantle a particularly aggressive cell of the hacking collective Anonymous, leading to the arrest of eight of its members in Europe and the United States, including Jeremy Hammond, who the Federal Bureau of Investigation said was its top “cybercriminal target,” the document said. Mr. Hammond is serving a 10-year prison term.
这位黑客名为赫克托·泽维尔·蒙斯格尔(Hector Xavier Monsegur)。法庭文件称，他还帮助当局打掉一个特别激进的黑客团体“匿名者”(Anonymous)，导致该团体在欧洲和美国的八名成员被捕，其中包括杰里米·哈蒙德(Jeremy Hammond)。联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)称，此人当时在其“网络犯罪分子”通缉名单中名列首位。哈蒙德被判处10年监禁，目前正在服刑。
The court document was prepared by prosecutors who are asking a judge, Loretta A. Preska, for leniency for Mr. Monsegur because of his “extraordinary cooperation.” He is set to be sentenced on Tuesday in Federal District Court in Manhattan on hacking conspiracy and other charges that could result in a long prison term.
检察部门撰写了这份法庭文件，希望法官洛雷塔·A·普利斯卡(Loretta A. Preska)看在蒙斯格尔“出色合作”的份上，对他进行宽大处理。驻曼哈顿的联邦地区法院定于本周二对蒙斯格尔进行宣判，他受到的黑客阴谋等指控可以被判处很长的刑期。
It has been known since 2012 that Mr. Monsegur, who was arrested in 2011, was acting as a government mole in the shadowy world of computer hacking, but the memorandum submitted to Judge Preska late on Friday reveals for the first time the extent of his assistance and what the government perceives of its value. It also offers the government’s first explanation of Mr. Monsegur’s involvement in a series of coordinated attacks on foreign websites in early 2012, though his precise role is in dispute.
蒙斯格尔于2011年被捕；自2012年以来，外界已经知道蒙斯格尔充当政府内应，在电脑黑客的隐秘世界中开展行动。不过，上周五较晚时候提交给普利斯卡法官的这份备忘录，却第一次披露了他为政府提供了多少帮助，以及政府对其价值的看法。这也是政府首次解释，蒙斯格尔如何在2012年初阻止国外网站遭受的一系列协同攻击中发挥作用，虽然人们对他的具体作用还存在争议。
The whereabouts of Mr. Monsegur have been shrouded in mystery. Since his cooperation with the authorities became known, he has been vilified online by supporters of Anonymous, of which he was a member. The memo, meanwhile, said the government became so concerned about his safety that it relocated him and some members of his family.
蒙斯格尔的下落则笼罩着一层神秘面纱。由于他与当局合作的事情已为外界所知，“匿名者”的支持者一直在网上诋毁他。备忘录称，政府很担心他的人身安全，因此曾经重新安置他及部分家人。蒙斯格尔自己以前也是“匿名者”的一员。
“Monsegur repeatedly was approached on the street and threatened or menaced about his cooperation once it became publicly known,” said the memo, which was filed by the office of Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan.
“蒙斯格尔跟政府合作的事情传出来之后，经常有人在街上威胁恐吓他，”备忘录中写道。驻曼哈顿的联邦检察官普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)的办公室撰写了这份备忘录。
Born in 1983, Mr. Monsegur moved to the Jacob Riis housing project on the Lower East Side of Manhattan at a young age, where he lived with his grandmother after his father and aunt were arrested for selling heroin. He became involved with hacking groups in the late 1990s, drawn, he has indicated, to the groups’ anti-government philosophies.
蒙斯格尔生于1983年，年少时父亲和姑姑因贩卖海洛因被捕，于是他搬到曼哈顿下东城的雅各布·里斯(Jacob Riis)公共住房和祖母一起居住。上世纪90年代末，蒙斯格尔开始与黑客团体来往。他表示，自己被这些团体的反政府理念吸引了。
Mr. Monsegur’s role emerged in March 2012 when the authorities announced charges against Mr. Hammond and others. A few months later, Mr. Monsegur’s bail was revoked after he made “unauthorized online postings,” the document said without elaboration. He was jailed for about seven months, then released on bail in December 2012, and has made no further postings, it said.
2012年3月，当局宣布对哈蒙德等人提出指控，蒙斯格尔的角色由此为公众所知。备忘录称，几个月后，蒙斯格尔的保释被撤销，因为他“未经授权在网上发帖”，但文件中并未详细阐述此事。备忘录还称，蒙斯格尔被关押了约七个月，然后在2012年12月获得保释，之后他没有再发贴子。
The memo said that when Mr. Monsegur (who used the Internet alias Sabu) was first approached by F.B.I. agents in June 2011 and questioned about his online activities, he admitted to criminal conduct and immediately agreed to cooperate with law enforcement.
备忘录表示，美国联邦调查局最初于2011年6月接触蒙斯格尔（网名Sabu），询问他在网上的活动。他承认自己有犯罪行为，随即同意与执法部门合作。
That night, he reviewed his computer files with the agents, and throughout the summer, he daily “provided, in real time, information” that allowed the government to disrupt attacks and identify “vulnerabilities in significant computer systems,” the memo said.
当天晚上，他与探员一起检查了自己电脑中的文件，而且在那年的整个夏天，他每天“实时提供信息”，帮助政府迎击黑客攻击，并找出“重要计算机系统中的漏洞，”该备忘录写道。
“Working sometimes literally around the clock,” it added, “at the direction of law enforcement, Monsegur engaged his co-conspirators in online chats that were critical to confirming their identities and whereabouts.”
“有些时候，他确实日以继夜地工作，”文中称，“在执法部门的指示下，蒙斯格尔和他的同谋者在网上进行聊天，而这些聊天的内容对于确认他们的身份和下落十分重要。”
His primary assistance was his cooperation against Anonymous and its splinter groups Internet Feds and LulzSec.
他发挥的主要作用是帮助打击了“匿名者”，以及从中分离出来的团体“网络探员”(Internet Feds)和LulzSec。
“He provided detailed historical information about the activities of Anonymous, contributing greatly to law enforcement’s understanding of how Anonymous operates,” the memo said.
“他提供了‘匿名者’活动的详细历史信息，极大地帮助执法部门摸清了‘匿名者’的运作方式，”备忘录中写道。
Neither Mr. Bharara’s office nor a lawyer for Mr. Monsegur would comment about the memo.
无论巴拉拉的办公室，还是蒙斯格尔的律师，均拒绝对这份备忘录置评。
Mr. Monsegur provided an extraordinary window on the activities of LulzSec, which he and five other members of Anonymous had created. The memo describes LulzSec as a “tightly knit group of hackers” who worked as a team with “complementary, specialized skills that enabled them to gain unauthorized access to computer systems, damage and exploit those systems, and publicize their hacking activities.”
蒙斯格尔为执法部门提供了一条了解LulzSec的绝佳途径。该团体由他和来自“匿名者”的其他五名成员共同创建。备忘录称，LulzSec是一个“严密的黑客团队”，其成员“拥有互补的专业技能，使他们能够未经授权地访问计算机系统、破坏和利用这些系统，并宣扬他们的黑客活动。”
The memo said that LulzSec had developed an “action plan to destroy evidence and disband if the group determined that any of its members had been arrested, or were out of touch,” and it credits Mr. Monsegur for agreeing so quickly to cooperate after being confronted by the bureau. Had he delayed his decision and remained offline for an extended period, the document said, “it is likely that much of the evidence regarding LulzSec’s activities would have been destroyed.”
该备忘录还写道，LulzSec制定了一个“行动计划，只要团队判断任何一名成员被捕，或者是失去了联系，就会毁灭证据，解散团队。”由于蒙斯格尔在受到联邦调查局质询后很快便同意合作，该行动计划才没有启动。假如他没有及时决定合作，并保持脱机状态较长时间，“LulzSec活动的大量证据很可能就会遭到销毁，”该文件称。
After his arrest, Mr. Monsegur provided information that helped repair a hack of PBS’s website in which he had been a “direct participant,” and helped patch a vulnerability in the Senate’s website. He also provided information about “vulnerabilities in critical infrastructure, including at a water utility for an American city, and a foreign energy company,” the document said.
被捕后，蒙斯格尔提供的信息帮助修复了PBS网站遭受的一次黑客攻击所造成的损害，他本来就是那次攻击的“直接参与者”。他还帮助修补了联邦参议院网站上的一个漏洞。此外，他提供了涉及一些“重大基础设施，比如美国某城市的一家供水公司，以及一家外国能源公司的漏洞”信息，备忘录称。