Each time a customer pulled open the glass door at the nail shop in Ridgewood, Queens, where Nancy Otavalo worked, a cheerful chorus would ring out from where she sat with her fellow manicurists against the wall: “Pick a color!”
南希·奥塔瓦洛(Nancy Otavalo)曾在皇后区里奇伍德的一个美甲店工作，每当顾客推开店里的玻璃门，包括她在内，所有靠墙而坐的美甲师都会用轻快的语调异口同声地说道：“请选择一种颜色。”
Ms. Otavalo, a 39-year-old Ecuadorean immigrant, was usually stationed at the first table. She trimmed and buffed and chatted about her quick-witted toddler, or her strapping 9-year-old boy. But she never spoke of another dreamed-for child, the one lost last year in a miscarriage that began while she was giving a customer a shoulder massage.
39岁的厄瓜多尔移民奥塔瓦洛通常坐在第一张桌子旁，边做修剪和抛光的活儿，边谈论她家那个正在蹒跚学步的机灵鬼儿，或是那个长得结结实实的9岁男孩。但她永远不会谈及另一个曾让她满怀期待的孩子——去年，她在给一位顾客做肩部按摩时发生流产，失去了那个孩子。
At the second table was Monica A. Rocano, 30, who sometimes brought a daughter to visit. But clients had never met her 3-year-old son, Matthew Ramon. People thought Matthew was shy, but in fact he has barely learned how to speak and can walk only with great difficulty.
坐在第二张桌子旁的是30岁的莫妮卡·A·罗卡诺(Monica A. Rocano)，她有时会把女儿带过来。但顾客们从未见过她三岁的儿子马修·拉蒙(Matthew Ramon)。大家都认为马修是个害羞的孩子，但事实上，他基本还没学会讲话，而且连走路都非常困难。
A chair down from Ms. Rocano was another, quieter manicurist. In her idle moments, she surfed the Internet on her phone, seeking something that might explain the miscarriage she had last year. Or the four others that came before.
再下去一张椅子，坐着另一位较为安静的美甲师。闲暇时，她会用手机上网，试图弄清自己去年流产的原因，以及那之前的四次流产的原因。
Similar stories of illness and tragedy abound at nail salons across the country, of children born slow or “special,” of miscarriages and cancers, of coughs that will not go away and painful skin afflictions. The stories have become so common that older manicurists warn women of child-bearing age away from the business, with its potent brew of polishes, solvents, hardeners and glues that nail workers handle daily.
美国各个地方的美甲沙龙里，都流传着类似的与疾病和悲剧有关的故事：诞下反应迟钝或者“特别”的孩子；发生流产，患上癌症；咳嗽长久不愈，皮肤病让人备受折磨。这些事已经变得极为普遍，以至于年长的美甲师对育龄女性发出了远离美甲业的警告。这个行业里的从业人员每天都要跟大量指甲油、溶解剂、硬化剂以及胶水打交道。
A growing body of medical research shows a link between the chemicals that make nail and beauty products useful — the ingredients that make them chip-resistant and pliable, quick to dry and brightly colored, for example — and serious health problems.
越来越多的医学研究表明，让美甲和美容产品发挥效用的化学品与严重的健康问题之间存在关联。这些化学品可以让相关产品具有耐剥落性、韧性、快干性或明亮的色彩。
Whatever the threat the typical customer enjoying her weekly French tips might face, it is a different order of magnitude, advocates say, for manicurists who handle the chemicals and breathe their fumes for hours on end, day after day.
倡导人士称，无论每周做一次法式美甲的一般消费者可能面临怎样的风险，都无法与经年累月、每天好多个钟头连续接触这些化学品、闻着它们的气味的美甲师所面临的风险相提并论。
The prevalence of respiratory and skin ailments among nail salon workers is widely acknowledged. More uncertain, however, is their risk for direr medical issues. Some of the chemicals in nail products are known to cause cancer; others have been linked to abnormal fetal development, miscarriages and other harm to reproductive health.
美甲沙龙的工人通常患有呼吸道疾病和皮肤病，这是公认的事实。不过，他们遭遇更可怕的健康问题的风险就不那么确定了。众所周知，美甲产品中的一些化学品会诱发癌症，其他一些则与胚胎发育异常、流产以及其他对生殖健康的危害有关。
A number of studies have also found that cosmetologists — a group that includes manicurists, as well as hairdressers and makeup artists — have elevated rates of death from Hodgkin’s disease, of low birth-weight babies and of multiple myeloma, a form of cancer.
一些研究还发现，包括美甲师、美发师、化妆师在内的美容师死于霍奇金病、诞下体重偏低的婴儿、患上多发性骨髓瘤（一种癌症）的概率有所上升。
But firm conclusions are elusive, partly because the research is so limited. Very few studies have focused on nail salon workers specifically. Little is known about the true extent to which they are exposed to hazardous chemicals, what the accumulated effect is over time and whether a connection can actually be drawn to their health.
但目前还难以得出确切结论，这在某种程度上是因为相关研究非常有限。专门针对美甲沙龙工人的研究少之又少。我们甚少了解他们暴露于有害化学品的真实程度，不知道日积月累之下这种暴露会产生什么样的后果，也不知道这是否真的会影响他们的健康状况。
The federal law that regulates cosmetics safety, which is more than 75 years old, does not require companies to share safety information with the Food and Drug Administration. The law bans ingredients harmful to users, but it contains no provisions for the agency to evaluate the effects of the chemicals before they are put on shelves. Industry lobbyists have fought tougher monitoring requirements.
与化妆品安全有关的联邦法律是在逾75年之前颁布的，并未要求企业跟美国食品药品监督管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）分享安全信息。相关法律禁止企业在产品中加入会危及使用者健康的成分，但没有哪条哪款可以成为FDA在产品上架前对其所含化学品的影响加以评估的依据。化妆品行业游说人士一直极力反对出台更严格的监管规定。
Industry officials say their products contain minuscule amounts of the chemicals identified as potentially hazardous and pose no threat.
行业高管称，在他们的产品中，被证明具有潜在危害的化学品的含量微乎其微，不会构成威胁。
“What I hear are insinuations based on ‘linked to,’” said Doug Schoon, co-chairman of the Professional Beauty Association’s Nail Manufacturers Council on Safety. “When we talk about nail polish, there’s no evidence of harm.”
“我听到的都是基于‘相关性’的暗示，”专业美容协会(Professional Beauty Association)美甲产品企业安全委员会(Nail Manufacturers Council on Safety)联合主席道格·朔恩(Doug Schoon)说。“说到指甲油，没有证据证明它们有害。”
Health advocates and officials disagree, pointing to the accumulated evidence.
健康倡导人士及卫生官员不同意上述说法，他们指出了长期积累下来的证据。
“We know that a lot of the chemicals are very dangerous,” said David Michaels, the assistant labor secretary who heads the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration, which oversees workplace safety. “We don’t need to see the effect in nail salon workers to know that they are dangerous to the workers.”
“我们知道很多化学物质非常危险，”领导联邦职业安全与健康管理局(Occupational Safety and Health Administration)的劳工部助理部长戴维·迈克尔斯(David Michaels)说。“我们不需要看到美甲沙龙工作者受到的影响才知道这些物质对他们有害。”该机构的职责是监督工作场所的安全状况。”
So many health complaints were cropping up among the mostly Vietnamese manicurists in Oakland, Calif., that workers at Asian Health Services, a community organization there, decided on their own to investigate about a decade ago.
加利福尼亚州奥克兰的美甲师主要是越南人，她们出现了很多健康问题，以至于当地社区组织亚健社(Asian Health Services)的工作人员一年之前决定自行开展调查。
“It was like, ‘Oh wow, what’s happening in this community?’” said Julia Liou, who is now the health center’s director of program planning and development and a co-founder of the California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative. “We are seeing this epidemic of people who are sick.”
“感觉就像是，‘哇哦，这个社区发生了什么，”该机构的项目策划及发展部负责人、加利福尼亚健康美甲沙龙协作中心(California Healthy Nail Salon Collaborative)联合创始人尤利娅·刘(Julia Liou)说。“我们看到许多人得了病。”
The organization helped form a coalition in California that pushed for restrictions on chemicals used in nail salons, but the cosmetics industry succeeded in blocking a ban.
该组织帮忙在加利福尼亚成立了一个联盟，要求相关机构对美甲沙龙使用的化学物质加以限制，但化妆品行业成功地阻止了禁令的出台。
In recent years, in the face of growing health concerns, some polish companies have said that they have removed certain controversial chemicals from their products. But random testing of some of these products by government agencies showed the chemicals were still present.
近些年来，面对越来越多的健康问题，一些指甲油公司表示，它们已经去除了产品中某些具有争议的化学物质。但政府机构对一些产品进行的随机测试显示，这些物质仍然存在。
Some states and municipalities recommend workers wear gloves and other protection, but salon owners usually discourage them from donning such unsightly gear. And even though officials overseeing workplace safety concede that federal standards on levels of chemicals that these workers can be exposed to need revision, nothing has been done.So manicurists continue to paint fingertips, swipe off polish and file down false nails, while absorbing chemicals that are potentially hazardous to their health.
一些州和地方政府建议工人使用手套和其他防护装置，但沙龙老板通常不赞成她们戴上那些难看的防护用品。而且，就连一些监管工作场所安全的官员也承认，关于工作环境内化学物质的可接受水平的联邦法规需要修改，但目前还没有任何改变。因此，美甲师继续一边涂上指甲油，抹去指甲油，磨掉假指甲，一边吸入可能对其健康造成危害的化学物质。
“There are so many stories but no one that dares to tell them; no one dares to tell them because they have no one to tell,” Ms. Otavalo said in an interview on a day off from the Ridgewood salon, babysitting for her colleague’s developmentally disabled son, Matthew. (Ms. Otavalo left her job at the salon a few months ago.) “There are thousands of women who are working in this, but no one asking: ‘What’s happening to you? How do you feel?’ We just work and work.”
“有很多故事可以说，但没人敢说；没人敢说是因为她们没有诉说对象，”奥塔瓦洛在休息日接受采访时说。奥塔瓦洛当天没有去里奇伍德的沙龙上班，而是照顾同事的发育不全的儿子马修(Matthew)。（奥塔瓦洛已在几个月前从该美甲沙龙离职。）“数千名女性在这个行业工作，但没人问：‘你的境遇如何？你感觉怎么样？’我们只是不断地工作、工作。”
‘They Cannot Breathe’
她们无法呼吸
The walls of Dr. Charles Hwu’s second-story office in Flushing, Queens, are decorated with Chinese calligraphy, gifts from patients he has cared for from cradle to adulthood. Over his decades as an internist in this predominantly Asian enclave, Dr. Hwu has repeatedly encountered a particular set of conditions affecting otherwise healthy women.
查尔斯·胡（Charles Hwu，音）医生的办公室位于皇后区法拉盛一座大楼的二层，办公室墙壁上挂着中国书法作品，以及那些从小到大由他照料的病人送的礼物。胡医生在这个主要是亚洲人聚集的地区担任了几十年的内科医生，反复碰到存在一系列特定病情的女性，她们在其他方面都很健康。
“They come in usually with breathing problems, some symptoms similar to an allergy, and also asthma symptoms — they cannot breathe,” he said during a break between patients this winter. “Judging from the symptoms with these women, it seems that they are either smokers, secondhand smokers or asthma patients, but they are none of the above. They work for nail salons.”
“她们通常有呼吸问题，有一些与过敏症类似的症状，还有哮喘症状，呼吸困难，”他在去年冬天的出诊间隙接受采访时说。“从这些女性的症状来看，她们似乎要么吸烟、吸二手烟，要么就是有哮喘病，但都不是。她们在美甲沙龙工作。”
In interviews with over 125 nail salon workers, airway ailments like those in Dr. Hwu’s office were ubiquitous. Many have learned to simply laugh them off — the nose that constantly bleeds, the throat that has ached every day since the manicurist started working. 
通过对至少125名美甲店工人进行采访发现，胡医生遇到的呼吸道疾病非常普遍。很多人已经可以对这种情况一笑置之——开始工作以来，美甲师每天都会出现鼻子不停流血、喉咙疼痛的情况。
In the nail salon she owned in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, Eugenia Colon spent years molding sometimes 30 sets of talonlike nails a day in a haze of acrylic powder, ignoring a persistent cough that grew more pronounced over time. She was found to have sarcoidosis, an inflammatory disease, in her lungs. In scans, they appeared as if covered with granules of sand, streaked by tiny scars.
尤金妮亚·科隆(Eugenia Colon)在布鲁克林区磨坊盆地开了一家美甲沙龙。多年来，她每天都在充满亚克力粉末的店中用模子制作假指甲，有时一天能做30副，期间无视自己咳嗽不断加重的问题。她被诊断患有肺部肉样瘤病——一种炎症。在扫描片上可以看到，她的肺部看起来像是被砂砾覆盖，有一条条小疤痕。
The doctor who diagnosed her condition asked Ms. Colon what she did for a living. When she told him, he was frank: As she beautified other women, she inhaled clouds of acrylic and other dust, tiny particles that gouged the soft tissue of her lungs.
为科隆诊断病情的医生问她做什么工作。当她说自己是美甲师的时候，医生非常坦率地表示：在她美化其他女性的同时，自己却吸入了大量亚克力粉末及其他灰尘，这些微小颗粒将她的肺部软组织弄得千疮百孔。
“We made money off it, but was it worth it?” Ms. Colon, 52, now an aesthetician in a Manhattan spa. “It came with a price.”
“我们靠这个赚钱，但这样做值得吗？”52岁的科隆说。“是有代价的。”科隆现在是曼哈顿一个养生会所的美容师。
Of the 20 common nail product ingredients listed as causing health problems in the appendix of a safety brochure put out by the Environmental Protection Agency, 17 are hazardous to the respiratory tract, according to the agency. Overexposure to each of them induces symptoms such as burning throat or lungs, labored breathing or shortness of breath.
美国国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency，简称EPA)发布了一份安全手册，并在附录列出了指甲油中会引发健康问题的20种常见成分。据该机构透露，其中17种对呼吸道有害。过度接触其中任何一种成分都会引发喉咙、肺部灼热，呼吸困难或呼吸急促等症状。
A 2006 study published in the Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine that included more than 500 Colorado manicurists found about 20 percent of them had a cough most days and nights. The same examination showed those who worked with artificial nails were about three times as likely to get asthma on the job as someone not in the industry.
2006年,《职业及环境医学期刊》(Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine)上发表了一份研究报告。该项研究调查了500位科罗拉多州(Colorado)的美甲师，发现他们当中约20%的人不分昼夜经常出现咳嗽的症状。这项研究还发现，美甲行业从业者患哮喘的几率比普通人高出三倍左右。
Skin disorders are also omnipresent among nail salon workers. Many of the chemicals in nail salon products are classified by government agencies as skin sensitizers, capable of provoking painful reactions.
皮肤病在美甲师当中也很常见。美甲沙龙的产品里含有许多被政府机构归为皮肤致敏物质的化学成分，会诱发疼痛等皮肤过敏反应。
Some veteran manicurists say they can recognize one another on the street: They have the same coffee-colored stains on their cheeks. Certain cosmetic color additives — particularly a type of brilliant red — have been shown by researchers to cause such skin discoloration.
经验丰富的美甲师说他们可以在街上辨认出同行：他们脸颊上有一样的咖啡色色斑。研究人员发现，某些化妆品着色剂——尤其是一种亮红色——会导致类似情况的肤色异常。
When Ki Ok Chung, a manicurist who worked in salons for almost two decades, had her fingerprints taken in the early 2000s for her United States citizenship, she made an upsetting discovery: Her prints were almost nonexistent. They had to be taken seven times. She says constant work with files, solvents and emollients is responsible.
郑琪耀(Ki Ok Chung)是一名美甲师，在沙龙工作了快二十年。十几年前，她在加入美国国籍的过程中接受了指纹采集。她苦恼地发现：她的指纹快消失了，以至于她的指纹被采集了七次。郑琪耀说，指纹消失是因为她工作中需长期接触磨甲砂条，洗甲水和营养油。
“I realized my fingerprints had been disappearing,” she said.
“我之前就发现我的指纹在逐渐消失。”
Today, she cannot touch hot or cold dishes without searing pain.
现在不管是碰热的盘子还是冷的，她都会感到火辣辣的疼。
Even as the weather warmed into spring last year, Zoila Calle, a manicurist, then 22, who worked in Harlem, wore wool gloves indoors and out. Underneath were black pustules so painful she could not grasp a polish bottle or text on her phone. It was the second time her hands had erupted in the warts, a common occurrence for nail salon workers. While customers often fret about salon hygiene, it is manicurists who appear truly at risk, suffering through endless fungal infections and other skin diseases from the blur of hands and feet they touch every day.
去年春天，尽管天气已经转暖，当时22岁、在哈莱姆区(Harlem)工作的美甲师佐伊拉·卡勒(Zoila Calle)还是无论室内室外都戴着羊毛手套。手套下面是一双满是水泡的手，黑色的脓疱令佐伊拉疼痛万分，她甚至无法握住一瓶指甲油或用手机给朋友发信息。她的手上已经第二次长疣了，这种情况在美甲师之中也很常见。虽然顾客常常会担忧美甲沙龙的卫生状况，但是卫生问题真正困扰的是美甲师们。他们每天要碰到顾客的手和脚，经常会因为顾客手脚上的病菌而导致真菌感染，或者患上其它的皮肤病。
“It’s a beautiful industry, it makes people feel better,” Ms. Colon, who owned the salon in Mill Basin, said in an interview, a faint wheeze just audible behind her ready laugh. “But if a lot of people knew the truth behind it, it wouldn’t happen. They wouldn’t go.”
“这是一个美容行业，是为了让人们感觉更好，”在磨坊盆地开美甲沙龙的科隆在采访中说，她很爱笑，笑声中隐约能听到喘声。“但是，一旦人们知道背后的真相，就不会这样了。顾客就不会再来了。”
Miscarriages and Warnings
美甲师的流产和来自医生的警告
In a way, Ms. Rocano, one of the manicurists in the Ridgewood salon, felt herself lucky. Her colleagues seated on either side of her had each lost a pregnancy last year, hoped-for babies whom they separately described exactly the same way: “Like losing a dream.”
一定程度上，里奇伍德那家沙龙的美甲师罗卡诺觉得自己挺幸运。去年，坐她两边的同事分别都流产了一次，而非常想要孩子的她们不约而同地形容流产“就像是梦碎了”。
She, however, has her toddler, Matthew.
而罗卡诺已经有了自己的孩子马修(Matthew)。
A dark-haired bundle with amber skin when he was born, Matthew was an infant laden with his mother’s hopes. Holding him in her arms, she was reminded of the daughter she had left behind in Ecuador and still has not seen in more than six years. This time, she felt, she could do right by her child.
马修出生时有着深色的头发和琥珀色的皮肤，肩负着母亲的诸多希望。当罗卡诺把他搂在怀里时，她会想起自己留在厄瓜多尔已六年多未见的女儿。罗卡诺觉得，这次她一定能好好地照顾自己的孩子。
Yet as he grew, something seemed off. His legs were weak; they buckled when he tried to stand. By age 3 he still could not say his name. In visits to her pediatrician, she learned that Matthew was delayed on almost every measure, both physically and cognitively.
然而，随着马修逐渐长大，奇怪的事情发生了。他双腿无力，想站起来的时候却伸不直。到3岁的时候，他还无法说出自己的名字。罗卡诺带他去看儿科医生，却被告知马修在几乎每项发育指标上落后，不管是生理上，还是认知上。
At one point, his doctor asked her what she did for a living. When she told him, he asked how long she had worked in the nail salon while pregnant. Six months, she responded.
后来，医生问罗卡诺从事什么工作，她回答了之后，医生又问她怀孕的时候在美甲沙龙做了多久。她回答：六个月。
The doctor told her, “When babies are forming in your womb, they absorb everything, and if they are exposed to anything, it can cause them harm,” she recalled.
罗卡诺回忆医生的话：“胎儿在你的子宫里发育的时候会吸收所有的东西，如果他们暴露在了什么物质之下，就可能会对他们造成损害。”
On a day five years ago, a doctor gave a similar warning to the manicurist who works at the table to Ms. Rocano’s right, as she sat in the obstetrics unit at Wyckoff Heights Medical Center in Brooklyn. There she learned she had miscarried a third time.
五年前的一天，另一位医生给坐在罗卡诺右边的美甲师也提出了类似的警告。当时，罗卡诺的这位同事坐在布鲁克林区威科夫高地医疗中心(Wyckoff Heights Medical Center)的产科诊疗室里，得知自己第三次流产了。
“I went to the hospital, and I told him, ‘I’m a manicurist,’” said the woman, who declined to give her name because she wanted her medical history to remain private. Her doctor urged her to change jobs. “The chemicals are not healthy for your lungs, your liver, and sometimes they begin cancer,” she recalled. “I was laughing. I said, ‘Who is going to pay my bills?’” She has since miscarried twice more.
“我去医院，告诉医生‘我是一个美甲师’” ，罗卡诺的同事说。因为想保护自己就医经历的隐私，她拒绝公布自己的姓名。医生催促她赶紧换一份工作。“那些化学物质对你的肺、你的肝都不好，也有可能会导致癌症，”她回忆道。“我当时笑了，反问他，‘那么，谁来帮我付账单呢？’”那之后，她又流产了两次。
In scientific circles, the three chemicals in nail products that are associated with the most serious health issues are dibutyl phthalate, toluene and formaldehyde. They are known as the “toxic trio” among worker advocates.
在科学界看来，美甲产品中对人体健康造成最严重危害的有三种化学物质，分别是邻苯二甲酸二丁酯、甲苯和甲醛。维护员工权益的人士把他们称为“三大毒物”。
Dibutyl phthalate, called DBP for short, makes nail polish and other products pliable. In Australia, it is listed as a reproductive toxicant and must be labeled with the phrases “may cause harm to the unborn child” and “possible risk of impaired fertility.” Starting in June, the chemical will be prohibited from cosmetics in that country. It is one of over 1,300 chemicals banned from use in cosmetics in the European Union. But in the United States, where fewer than a dozen chemicals are prohibited in such products, there are no restrictions on DBP.
邻苯二甲酸二丁酯简称DBP，能使甲油上光，并使其它一些制品具有可塑性。在澳大利亚，DBP被列为生殖毒性物质，而含有DBP的产品必须标明“可能会危害胎儿”和“可能具有损害生育功能的风险”。今年6月起，澳大利亚所有化妆品中均将禁止含有这种化学物质。DBP也是欧盟明令禁止在化妆品里使用的1300多种化学物质之一。而在美国，化妆品中禁止含有的化学物质只有不到十几种，而DBP没有受到任何限制。
Toluene, a type of solvent, helps polish glide on smoothly. But the E.P.A. says in a fact sheet that it can impair cognitive and kidney function. In addition, repeated exposure during pregnancy can “adversely affect the developing fetus,” according to the agency.
甲苯是一种溶剂，能让甲油更顺滑。美国EPA在一份资料中注明，甲苯可能会损害认知能力及肾功能。另外，该局还指出，孕期多次暴露于甲苯中可能会“对发育中的胎儿造成负面影响”。
Formaldehyde, best known for its use in embalming, is a hardening agent in nail products. In 2011, the National Toxicology Program, part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, labeled it a human carcinogen. By 2016, it will be banned from cosmetics in the European Union.
甲醛最为人熟知的则是在防腐中的应用。在美甲产品里，它充当的是硬化剂。2011年，美国卫生与公众福利部下属的国家毒理学计划(National Toxicology Program)将甲醛列为人类致癌物。2016年，欧盟将全面禁止在化妆品中含有甲醛。
Cosmetics industry officials say linking the chemicals to manicurists’ health complaints amounts to faulty science.
化妆品行业的高层表示，将这些化学物质和美甲师的健康问题联系起来，在科学上是靠不住的。
Dibutyl phthalate, toluene and formaldehyde “have been found to be safe under current conditions of use in the United States,” said Lisa Powers, a spokeswoman for the Personal Care Products Council, the main trade association and lobbying group for the cosmetics industry.
DBP、甲苯和甲醛“在美国现行条件下的使用是安全的，”美国个人护理用品协会(Personal Care Products Council)的发言人莉萨·鲍尔斯(Lisa Powers)表示。该协会是美国化妆品业最主要的行业组织和游说团体。
“The safe and historical use of these ingredients is not questioned by F.D.A.,” she continued.
“FDA并未质疑这些成分的安全使用和过去的使用状况。”她还说。
In reality, the responsibility for evaluating the safety of the chemicals as they are used in cosmetics is left with the companies themselves.
实际上，评估这些化学物质在化妆品中的使用是否安全的责任，留给了公司自身来承担。
Even while insisting they are safe, some polish companies have voluntarily begun to remove certain chemicals from formulations. By 2006, several prominent brands had announced their products would no longer contain any of the three. The new products were labeled “3-free” or “5-free,” referring to the number of chemicals that are ostensibly no longer in them.
一些甲油公司一边坚称这些化学物质是安全的，一边开始自发地将某些物质从配方中去除。2006年时，已有几家大品牌宣布旗下的产品中将不再含有DBP、甲苯或甲醛。新推出的产品标榜“三不含”或“五不含”，突出了明面上不再添加的化学物质的种类。
But a 2010 study by the F.D.A. and another in 2012 by the California Environmental Protection Agency’s Department of Toxic Substance Control found in random tests that some products, even ones labeled “3-free” or “5-free,” in fact contained those very chemicals.
然而，2010年的一项FDA研究，以及加州环保局的有毒物质控制部门(Department of Toxic Substance Control)2012年的另一项研究均发现，经随机抽样调查，有一些产品尽管贴了“三不含”“五不含”的标签，其实还是含有这些化学物质。
It was from routine community outreach trips to local nail salons in Oakland that Ms. Liou and her colleagues from Asian Health Services, as well as Thu Quach, a research scientist, became alarmed: Almost all of the manicurists interviewed had health complaints; some were terribly ill.
刘女士和她在亚健社的几名同事，加上从事研究工作的科学家郭秋(Thu Quach)，在一次例行的社区访问中去了奥克兰的一些美甲沙龙。正是这次访问，让他们心生忧虑：接受问询的美甲师几乎都有健康问题，有一些还病得很严重。
Dr. Quach, with the Cancer Prevention Institute of California, set out to conduct a health survey of nail salon workers in Alameda County, which includes Oakland.
随后，加州癌症预防研究所(Cancer Prevention Institute of California)的郭秋博士开始对奥克兰所在的阿拉梅达县的美甲工作者展开健康调查。
The stories poured in.
她听到了许许多多的故事。
Le Thi Lam, a Vietnamese manicurist who came to the United States in 1988 after fleeing the Communist government in her country, was among the first. She had started out in a Sacramento nail salon, becoming proficient in acrylic nails, sculpting them all day long from a slurry of solvent and plastic polymers.
林丽诗(Le Thi Lam)属于最先一批讲述自身情况的美甲师。她原籍越南，逃离共产党统治后于1988年来到美国，起初在萨克拉门托的一家沙龙工作。她很擅长做亚克力甲，工作中整日接触这些溶剂和塑料聚合物。
In 1991, she learned she had a thyroid condition. She had also developed asthma. She quit, too sickened to work and concerned about the chemicals she was handling. But she soon returned, unable to find another job with her limited English. Ten years later, she had breast cancer.
1991年，林丽诗得知自己有甲状腺疾病，还患上了哮喘。于是她放弃了工作，一方面是因为病到无法上班的地步，另一方面也是顾忌自己整日在接触的化学物质。但是她很快又回来了。由于英语不佳，她无法找到别的工作。十年之后，她得了乳癌。
“I know that manicurists like me are also going through the same things and having major health problems,” she said, seated in a conference room at Asian Health Services last summer, a blouse hiding a red scar from her breastbone to her armpit. “But they still hang on to their jobs to earn their living.”
“我认识不少像我一样的美甲师也在经历同样的事情，也得了大病，”去年夏天接受采访时，她这样说。她当时坐在亚健社的会议室里，衬衫遮住了胸骨到腋窝之间的一道红色伤疤。“但是她们还是坚持工作，这样才能维持生计。”
Dr. Quach kept going with her research, undertaking several other studies. One found manicurists had an increased risk for gestational diabetes and for having undersize babies. Another, looking at cancer, found no correlation. Both studies were hampered by data limitations. Mostly, they point to the need for further study.
继续进行此项研究的同时，郭博士还开展了几项别的研究。其中一项发现，美甲师比起普通人更有可能得妊娠期糖尿病，她们的胎儿也更可能偏小。另一项研究关注的是从事美甲工作与罹患癌症之间的关系，结果并没有发现相关性。这两项研究均受到数据有限的困扰。不过，它们的基本指向是，有必要从事进一步的研究。
“What we know is what’s reported by the women again and again: that there is something here,” Dr. Quach said. “Those chemicals they are dealing with are chemicals that we know people react to, and we are hearing the stories from these workers that they are reacting to them. It’s all there.”
“我们了解的就是这些女性反复提到的事情：有些地方出了问题，” 郭博士说。“我们知道，她们接触的那些化学物质就是会让人们起反应的物质，我们在听那些出现反应的员工讲起这些经历。都是很明显的。”
‘Fox Guarding the Henhouse’
狐狸看守鸡窝
The regulation of chemicals in nail products is dictated by the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938. The part of the law that deals with cosmetics totals just 591 words.
1938年的《联邦食品、药品和化妆品法案》(Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act)对美甲产品中的化学物质的管控做出了规定。但涉及化妆品的法律条文只有591个单词。
The Food and Drug Administration explains the limitations it faces under the law on its website: “Cosmetic products and ingredients do not need F.D.A. premarket approval, with the exception of color additives.” It continues, “Neither the law nor F.D.A. regulations require specific tests to demonstrate the safety of individual products or ingredients.” In addition, “The law also does not require cosmetic companies to share their safety information with F.D.A.”
FDA在其网站上说明了该部门所面对的这一法案的局限性：“除了色素添加剂外，化妆品及其成分不需要获得FDA的售前批准。”该机构还称，“该法案及FDA的规定都没有要求进行特定测试，证明个别产品或成分的安全性。”除此之外，“该法案也不要求化妆品公司与FDA分享安全信息。”
In 1976, the cosmetics industry itself established the Cosmetic Ingredient Review, a panel that is supposed to “review and assess the safety of ingredients used in cosmetics in an open, unbiased and expert manner,” according to its website. But the panel is financed entirely by the Personal Care Products Council, the industry lobbying group. The panel’s offices are also in the same building in Washington as the products council.
1976年，化妆品行业自发成立了化妆品成分审查委员会(Cosmetic Ingredient Review)。该组织的网站介绍称，该委员会应该“以公开、公正、专业的方式审查并评估化妆品成分”。但该委员会的经费全部来自行业游说组织个人护理用品协会(Personal Care Products Council)。该委员会与个人护理用品协会在华盛顿的同一座大楼里办公。
Even so, Ms. Powers said the panel was independent. She is the official spokeswoman for the industry lobby, but all questions to the review panel were handled by her.
即便如此，鲍尔斯表示，该委员会是独立的。她是上述游说组织的官方发言人，但所有针对审查委员会的问题都由她负责回答。
Since its founding, the panel has reviewed only a small fraction of the substances in use in cosmetics today. Among them were dibutyl phthalate and toluene; the panel determined that they are safe the way they are used in nail products — on nails, not skin.
自成立以来，该委员会只对一小部分化妆品成分进行了审查。其中包括邻苯二甲酸酯和甲苯；该委员会判定这些化学物质用于指甲油产品——用于指甲而不是皮肤——是安全的。
“It’s a classic case of the fox guarding the henhouse,” says Janet Nudelman, the director of program and policy at the Breast Cancer Fund, which has argued for more stringent regulation. “You’ve got an industry-funded review panel that’s assessing the safety for the very industry that’s funding the review panel.”
“这是一个典型的让狐狸看守鸡窝的例子，” 乳癌基金会(Breast Cancer Fund)的项目与政策主管珍妮特·努德尔曼(Janet Nudelman)说，“一个由行业资助的审查委员会为这个行业评估安全性。”该基金会要求采取更加严格的监管举措。
There have been efforts in recent years to overhaul the 1938 law and more strictly regulate cosmetic chemicals, but none made headway in the face of industry resistance. Since 2013, the products council, just one of several industry trade groups, has poured nearly $2 million on its own into lobbying Congress.
近些年来，相关部门努力修订 1938年的法律，对化妆品包含的化学物质采取更加严格的监管举措，但面对该行业的抵抗，这些努力均未取得进展。自2013年以来，个人护理用品协会自己出资将近200万美元游说国会。该委员会只是几个行业协会之一。
After talks between the cosmetics industry and the F.D.A. broke down last year, Michael R. Taylor, the agency’s deputy commissioner for foods and veterinary medicine, rebuked the industry in an unusual open letter for pushing a measure that would have declared a wide range of potentially dangerous chemicals safe “without a credible scientific basis” and others safe that are known to pose “real and substantial risks to consumers.”
化妆品行业与FDA间的谈判在去年走向破裂。此后，FDA负责食品与兽医学事务的副局长迈克尔·R·泰勒(Michael R. Taylor)在一封罕见的公开信中谴责该行业推行的举措将会在“没有可靠科学依据”的情况下，宣告各种可能存在危险的化学物质是安全的，以及其他众所周知的“给顾客带来真正巨大风险”的化学物质是安全的。
Ms. Powers said the letter mischaracterized the industry’s stance. “The law was created or passed in 1938,” she said. “Nobody is saying that we shouldn’t look at that now and say: ‘Is it a contemporary approach? Does it need to bring us into the 21st century?’ We all agree to that. But that doesn’t make for a sexy headline.”
鲍尔斯表示，这封信件曲解了该行业的立场。“该法案是在1938年制定或通过的，”她说。“我们不是说现在不用审视这个法案并质疑：‘这是与时俱进的处理方法吗？符合21世纪的情况吗？’我们都同意这一点。但这不会成为一个吸引人的标题。”
The council, in fact, said it supported a bipartisan bill introduced in April by Senators Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, that would broaden F.D.A. oversight of cosmetics, including giving the agency recall ability. But some health advocates said the bill would continue to permit the industry to largely regulate itself; it would also pre-empt states’ abilities to create stronger rules.
该协会表示，事实上，它支持加利福尼亚州民主党参议员黛安娜·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein) 和缅因州共和党参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)在4月提出的获得两党支持的议案。该议案将会加大FDA的监管权力，比如允许该机构召回化妆品。但一些健康倡导人士表示，该议案仍旧允许化妆品行业在很大程度上进行自我管控；该议案还会先发制人地阻止各州出台更加严格的规定。
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration is the federal agency that sets chemical exposure limits in workplaces. The studies that have examined the chemical exposure levels for manicurists have found them to be well below these standards. Health advocates say the safety administration’s standards are badly out of date and flawed.
联邦职业安全与健康管理局（Occupational Safety and Health Administration，简称OSHA）设定了工作场所化学物质暴露限值。相关研究检测了美甲店的化学品暴露水平，结果发现暴露水平远低于上述标准。但健康倡导人士表示，该机构的标准早就过时，存在严重缺陷。
Even Dr. Michaels, the head of the safety administration, said his agency’s standards needed revision. Currently, he said, workers “can be exposed to levels that are legal according to OSHA but are still dangerous.”
甚至连该机构负责人迈克尔斯都表示，其标准需要修订。他表示，目前工作人员“可以暴露于OSHA认定合法的水平，但仍然面临危险”。
The agency makes illustrated pamphlets warning manicurists about the chemical hazards they face and urges them to wear gloves and ventilate their shops. These steps and others become mandatory when exposure limits are exceeded. But in practical terms, with the standards set so high, salons are free to do nothing. Dr. Michaels said the agency was hamstrung by its own cumbersome rule-making process.
该机构制作了带有插图的小册子，提醒美甲师她们所面临的化学危害，并劝她们戴手套，使美甲店保持通风。当超过暴露限值时，OSHA就会强制实行这些及其他举措。但实际上，由于标准设置得非常高，美甲店可以什么都不做。迈克尔斯表示，繁琐的法规制定过程束缚了该机构的手脚。
“Every worker has the right to come home safely at the end of every day,” Dr. Michaels said. “They shouldn’t be coming home and getting sick.”
“所有工人都有权在每天结束工作后安全回家，”迈克尔斯说。“她们不应该带着病回家。”
The debate over the chemicals has also unfolded at the state level. In 2005, lawmakers in California proposed banning DBP from cosmetic products sold or manufactured in the state. Industry lobbyists flooded the State Capitol (some bearing gift baskets of lipstick and nail polish), spending over a half-million dollars fighting the ban, according to state records. Some of the country’s best-known cosmetics companies — Estée Lauder, Mary Kay and OPI, among others — weighed in against it. The bill ultimately failed. A much more limited measure passed — over the industry’s objections — that required cosmetics companies to disclose certain hazardous chemicals to the California Department of Public Health.
州级机构也就化学物质展开了辩论。2005年，加利福尼亚州的议员提议禁止该州出售或生产含有DBP的化妆品。州政府文件记录显示，行业说客纷纷涌入州议会大厦（一些人带着装有口红和指甲油的礼品篮），耗费逾50万美元阻止禁令的出台。一些最知名的美国化妆品公司——雅诗兰黛(Estée Lauder)、玫琳凯(Mary Kay)、OPI等——加入反对阵营。该议案最终没有获得通过。在化妆品行业的反对声音中，一项更具局限性的议案获得通过，该议案要求化妆品公司向加州公共卫生局(California Department of Public Health)上报某些危险化学物质。
Blocked by an industry with deep pockets, the California advocates say they had to scale back their goals. They introduced a grass-roots program that officially recognizes “healthy nail salons,” those that carry “greener” products and that ventilate. The New York City Council held a hearing this month on a measure that would establish a similar voluntary program.
面对财大气粗的化妆品行业的阻挠，加州倡导人士表示，他们需要降低目标。他们推出了一个民间计划，对“健康美甲店”予以正式认可。这些沙龙使用的是“比较环保”的产品，并且通风顺畅。
Today, out of several thousand salons in California, however, there are just 55 salons in the program.
目前，在加州的数千家美甲店中，只有55家店铺被列入该项目。
One of them is Lulu Nail Spa, a tiny salon with a dusky rose wall and white-leather pedicure chairs in Burlingame, Calif. The shop earned the designation in May by switching certain products, using gloves and opening the doors to sweep out fumes. The owner, Hai Thi Le, a Vietnamese immigrant, said she hoped the new decal she placed on her window would draw green-minded customers.
其中一个就是位于加州伯灵格姆的露露美甲店(Lulu Nail Spa)，这家小店有着暗沉的玫瑰色墙壁，以及几把白色皮质修脚椅。该美甲店换掉了某些产品，让美甲师使用手套，并开门通风，因此在去年5月被列入该项目。美甲店老板——越南移民黎海提（Hai Thi Le）表示，她希望她贴到窗户上的新标记能够吸引支持环保的顾客。
But she did not make the changes just for business. As a young woman working in her brother’s nail shop, Ms. Le said she breathed in so much acrylic powder that when she kissed her husband after work, he complained her breath smelled of solvent and plastic dust.
但她做出改变不只是为了招揽生意。作为一名曾在兄弟开的美甲店工作的年轻女性，她称自己吸入了太多亚克力粉末，当工作完回家亲吻丈夫的时候，丈夫抱怨称她的呼吸中带有溶解剂和塑料粉末的味道。
Standing in the Breeze
站着吹会儿风
On her days off from the salon in Ridgewood, Queens, Nancy Otavalo ran for a time an ad hoc day care center at her home a few blocks away with her sister, another manicurist. The sisters would pick up salon workers’ children after school for a fee, entertaining them in the basement apartment the sisters shared with their families.
不去位于皇后区里奇伍德的美甲店工作时，南希·奥塔瓦洛(Nancy Otavalo)一度在自己的家中和姐妹开设了日托中心，她住的地方离美甲店只有几个街区。她的姐妹也是美甲师。二人会在美甲店员工的孩子放学后接上他们，在她们与家人合租的地下室内陪孩子玩，以赚取费用。
Matthew, her colleague’s son who can barely speak, got special treatment, spending time curled on the gleaming black leather couch — bought with tips — that is the centerpiece of her home.
她同事的儿子马修(Matthew)几乎说不出话，因此受到特殊对待，他蜷缩在闪亮的黑色皮质沙发上，这个用小费购买的沙发是她家的主要家具。
After Ms. Otavalo miscarried last year, she lay for hours on the same black leather couch, in silence, the lights darkened, unable to summon the willpower to get up.
奥塔瓦洛去年流产后，就常常关着灯，默默地躺在这个黑沙发上，一躺就是好几个小时，因为她找不到爬起来的力量。
A week after a procedure to remove the fetus at Woodhull Medical Center in Brooklyn, she rose, put on the lavish makeup her sister says makes her feel confident and went back to work at her manicure table.
她在布鲁克林区伍德哈尔医疗中心(Woodhull Medical Center)打掉胎儿的一周后，爬了起来，化上盛妆，回到美甲台工作，她姐妹说这种妆容让她看起来非常自信。
Clients who stopped by for their weekly manicures knew nothing about what happened; everything appeared the same.
每周过来做指甲的顾客并不知道发生了什么事情；一切看似如常。
Except every so often, after Ms. Otavalo had painted the last stroke of top coat on a customer’s hand, she scraped back her chair and walked to the front of the shop. She pulled open the salon’s glass door to stand in the breeze for a while.
只是时不时的，奥塔瓦洛在顾客的指甲上涂完最后一笔护甲油后，会推开椅子，走到前面，拉开美甲店的玻璃门，站在那里吹会儿风。