As Michelle Obama kicks off her weeklong trip to China, her first ever, her team is harnessing the power of technology to ensure that every step, every impression is documented. Accompanied by her daughters, Malia and Sasha, as well as her mother, Marian Robinson, the first lady will be blogging, tweeting and Instagramming her way through the country.
随着米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)为期一周的访华之行开始，她的班子正在利用现代技术来确保她首次访华的每一步、每一个印象都被记录下来。这位第一夫人在中国旅行期间将用博客、Twitter以及Instagram发布信息，和她一起来访的还有女儿马莉娅(Malia)和萨莎(Sasha)、以及母亲玛丽昂·鲁滨逊(Marion Robinson)。
After touching down in Beijing on Thursday, she planned to tour on Friday a Chinese high school and the Forbidden City with Peng Liyuan, the wife of President Xi Jinping. After other events in the capital that will focus mostly on youth and education, she will head to the historic city of Xi’an on Monday to see the Terra Cotta Warriors Museum and wrap up her trip with a stop in the southwestern city of Chengdu, where she will visit a panda research and breeding base before her departure on Wednesday.
奥巴马夫人周四抵达北京之后，计划于周五访问一所中国的中学，还将与中国国家主席习近平的妻子彭丽媛一起参观故宫。她在北京的其他安排将主要关注青少年和教育问题，这些活动之后，她将于下周一前往历史名城西安，参观兵马俑博物馆；此行最后的一站是成都，她将在那里参观一个大熊猫繁育研究基地，之后，将于下周三离开中国。
“A visit like this is an important opportunity not just to share China’s rich history and culture with young people like you, but to connect you with the stories of young people in China,” Mrs. Obama said in a video message posted on PBS.
奥巴马夫人在美国公共广播电视台上发布的一段视频中说，“这种访问机会很重要，它不仅能让我与像你们这样的年轻人分享中国悠久的历史和文化，也能把你们与中国年轻人的故事连接起来。”
And connected she is.
她还真连接起来了。
Although she is not traveling with journalists and does not plan to give interviews, many American and Chinese reporters will be covering her every move. And the White House said that Mrs. Obama will be documenting her trip with daily reports on social media.
虽然她在旅行中没有记者同行，也没有接受采访的计划，但许多美国和中国记者将会跟踪报道她的一举一动。白宫称，奥巴马夫人每天将在社交媒体上发布她的旅行情况。
She will post a travel journal – complete with videos and photos – with daily entries. She will also participate in a podcast series to share information about Chinese history and culture with listeners. The White House has also been collecting questions for Mrs. Obama to answer via video messages during her trip.
她将发布一个旅行日志，每天把带有视频和照片的所见所闻发到社交媒体上。她还将参与一个podcast系列节目，与听众分享有关中国历史和文化的信息。白宫已经开始收集来自公众的问题，奥巴马夫人将在旅途中通过视频消息回答这些问题。
Users of Instagram and Twitter can also submit questions and comments via the hashtag #FLOTUSinChina, according to the White House. Young people have also submitted video questions to Mrs. Obama through CNN about traveling and studying abroad.
Instagram和Twitter用户也可以通过#FLOTUSChina这个话题提交问题和评论，据白宫称。一些年轻人已经通过CNN向奥巴马夫人提交了视频形式的有关出国旅行和上学的问题。
“How do you feel about your children studying abroad?” “What will you do on your trip?” “Why do you think if students study abroad they will learn more?” are some of the questions that have been submitted to Mrs. Obama through short video clips online.
这些通过网上短视频提给奥巴马夫人的问题包括，“如果你的孩子出国留学，你感觉如何？”“你这次旅行期间将做些什么？”“为什么你认为学生出国读书能学到更多的东西？”
The White House said that Chinese Internet users can submit questions for Mrs. Obama through the United States Embassy’s accounts on the local social media platforms Sina and QQ Weibo.
白宫说，中国网民可以通过美国使馆在中国的社交媒体平台新浪微博和腾讯微博上的账户向奥巴马夫人提问。
China has a booming Internet industry with more than 600 million people connected to the web in 2013, nearly double the total population of the United States. Sina Corporation alone, which hosts one of China’s most popular microblogging platforms and recently filed an initial public offering in the United States, boasts more than 45 million daily users.
中国的互联网行业非常发达，截至2013年，网民已超过6亿，几乎是美国总人口的两倍。光新浪公司一家就号称有超过4500万用户每天上网，新浪有中国最热门的微博平台，该公司最近已经提交材料准备在美国进行首次公开募股。
Chinese social media users have been busy discussing Mrs. Obama’s visit to China. But they appear equally excited finally to have an opportunity to see how Ms. Peng will compare to her American counterpart. When Ms. Peng accompanied Mr. Xi on a visit to the United States last summer, the two women did not meet.
中国社交媒体用户近来一直在讨论奥巴马夫人访华一事。但是，他们对终于有机会看到彭丽媛与她的美国对等人物在一起，似乎同样地兴奋。去年夏天习近平携彭丽媛访美期间，这两位第一夫人并未见面。
“Go, Peng Liyuan!” commented one user from Beijing, in anticipation of the encounter this week.
北京的一名用户在期待两位第一夫人本周的会面时评论说，“彭丽媛，加油。”
Another user, from Guangdong Province, praised Mrs. Peng as “really beautiful, dignified and elegant while not losing touch with the people.”
而一名来自广东省的用户则称赞彭丽媛，“真漂亮，即高贵端庄、又形象可亲。”
During her trip to the United States last year, photographs of Ms. Peng circulated widely on social media and copies of her outfits and accessories quickly showed up on the website of the Chinese online retailer Taobao.
彭丽媛去年访问美国期间的照片在社交媒体上广为流传，模仿她的服装和饰品的产品很快就在中国在线零售商淘宝网上出现了。