The Latest:
最新消息：
■ American markets lost big gains made earlier in the day and finished Tuesday in the red.
■ 周二美国股市以下跌报收，回吐了当天早些时候的较大涨幅。
■ In China, the benchmark Shanghai composite index closed 7.6 percent lower. Chinese officials later cut interest rates and eased banks’ reserve requirements.
■ 中国基准的上证指数跌7.6%，之后中国官员宣布降息，并放宽了银行准备金要求。
■ Most other markets in Asia stabilized or rallied modestly. An exception was Japan, where stocks closed down 4 percent.
■ 亚洲其他市场大多数保持稳定或小幅上扬。日本是例外，收跌4%。
■ European equities rebounded, recovering most of Monday’s losses. The Euro Stoxx 50 closed up 4.7 percent. In London, the FTSE 100 ended the day 3.1 percent higher.
■ 欧洲股市出现反弹，收复了本周一的大部分失地。欧洲Stoxx 50指数(Euro Stoxx 50)收涨4.7%。英国FTSE 100指数收涨3.1%。
■ The international and American oil benchmarks bounced back, despite concerns about oversupply.
■ 尽管对于供应过剩的关切依然存在，但国际和美国油价基准出现反弹。
In Depth:
详细情况：
A strong rally in the stock market faded rapidly on Tuesday afternoon, killing hopes for an end to the recent turmoil in the markets.
周二午盘，一波强劲的升势迅速消退，让近期的市场动荡走向终点的希望化为泡影。
The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index ended the day down 1.4percent, to 1,867.62, after earlier rising almost 3 percent from Monday’s close. The Dow Jones industrial average finished 1.3percent lower, off 205 points, at 15,666.44.
标准普尔500指数以1867.62点报收，跌1.4%，盘中一度比周一收盘位上涨几乎3%。道琼斯(Dow Jones)工业平均指数下跌205点，收于15666.44点，跌幅1.3%。
It was a huge reversal for the markets, as the Dow was up as much as 441 points in the morning. Tech stocks also fell after climbing earlier in the day, with the Nasdaq finishing 0.4 percent lower, to 4,506.49.
道指早盘一度上涨441点，后来出现了巨大逆转。科技股也回吐了当天早些时候的涨幅，纳斯达克(Nasdaq)收于4506.49点，跌0.4%。
Despite the turmoil, investors were reminded of the continuing strength of the American economy by new data out on Tuesday morning showing that consumer confidence rose in August and that new-home sales rose in July. That helped support a market rally for much of the day.
尽管股市出现震荡，本周二上午的数据显示美国经济持续走强，8月消费者信心指数上升，7月的新屋销售量也有所上升。这为股市当天大部分时间的涨势提供了动力。
And certain segments of the market fared better. Oil prices recovered, with futures on the New York Mercantile Exchangerising 3 percent to settle at $39.31 a barrel.
市场上的某些领域表现得更好。石油价格回升，纽约商品交易所(New York Mercantile Exchange)的原油期货价格上涨3%，收于每桶39.31美元。
Investors in search of safe havens also did not drive up the prices of Treasury securities on Tuesday. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.08 percent, after briefly falling as low as 1.90 percent during the worst of Monday’s rout.
周二当天，寻求避险的投资者并为抬升美国国债的价格。基准的10年期美国国债收益率升至2.08%，在周一遭遇重挫时，其收益率一度下降到了1.90%。
But the quick reversal in American stock indexes late in thesession on Tuesday brought into question whether the recovery that seemed to be building earlier in the day would have any staying power. 
但美国股指在周二尾盘时的快速反转让人们怀疑，当天早些时候似乎正在蓄势的反弹，能否持续下去。
“Clearly this is an unstable market,” said Tim Ghriskey, the chief investment officer at Solaris Group. “There’s a lot of volatility here, so there is going to be instability.”
“显然，这是一个不稳定的市场，”Solaris Group的首席投资官蒂姆·格里斯基(Tim Ghriskey)说。“市场有很多波动，所以会不稳定。”
During the optimistic morning of trading in the United States,European stock markets posted strong gains, making up most of the losses suffered Monday.
美国股市的早盘交易形势乐观。在此期间，欧洲股市强势上涨，弥补了周一的大部分损失。
The markets in China,however, posted deep losses again on Tuesday, with Shanghai stocks down 7.6 percent on the heels of Monday’s 8.5 percent plunge. But after the markets closed in China, Beijing officials took strong measures to stabilize financial markets by cutting interest rates and reducing the amount of money banks are required to keep on hand to guard against risk.
然而，中国股市周二当天再次大跌，上证指数继周一暴跌8.5%后，再次下挫7.6%。但周一收盘后，北京的官员采取重磅措施，试图通过降低利率和准备金率来稳定金融市场。
Elsewhere in Asia, the free fall of the last few days appeared to have ended, with the Hang Seng in Hong Kong up modestly, and emerging markets like India faring better.
在亚洲其他地方，过去几天的自由落体式猛跌似乎已经结束了。香港恒生指数(Hang Seng)小幅上扬，印度等新兴市场表现更佳。