CHICAGO — In an hourlong news conference that touched on race, policing and airline manners, a lawyer for the passenger dragged off a United flight on Sunday listed his client’s injuries: a broken nose, a concussion, two knocked-out teeth and sinus problems that may require reconstructive surgery.
芝加哥——这个涉及族裔、警务和航空公司规矩的新闻发布会持续了一个小时，周日从联合航空(United)航班上被拖离的乘客的律师列出了他的伤势：鼻子骨折、脑震荡、掉了两颗牙齿，可能需要做重建手术的鼻窦问题。
“For a long time, airlines, United in particular, have bullied us,” the lawyer, Thomas A. Demetrio, said Thursday in downtown Chicago.
律师托马斯·A·德米特里奥(Thomas A. Demetrio)周四在芝加哥市中心说：“长期以来，航空公司一直在霸凌我们，特别是联合航空公司。”
“Are we going to just continue to be treated like cattle — bullied, rude treatment?” asked Mr. Demetrio, who placed the blame for his client’s injuries on a “culture of disrespect” at United Airlines and overly aggressive tactics from Chicago aviation police officers. He said a lawsuit was likely.
“我们是否继续像牛一样被对待——被欺负、被粗鲁对待？”德米特里奥问道。他表示，他把伤害责任归咎于联合航空“不尊重人的文化”，以及芝加哥航空警察过激的战术。他说可能会提起诉讼。
The video of Dr. David Dao, 69, of Kentucky, being bloodied as he was pulled off the flight in order to make room for four United employees has ignited conversation and outrage around the world. The three Chicago aviation police officers who removed Dr. Dao from the plane have been placed on administrative leave.
69岁的杜成德(David Dao)医生来自肯塔基，他被拖离飞机、为联合航空的4名员工腾出座位的时候在出血，这段视频在世界各地引爆了话题和愤怒。将杜成德医生从飞机上拖离的三名芝加哥航空警官已经被行政休假。
After initially defending the airline’s policies, United’s chief executive apologized. United has offered a refund to every passenger on the flight and has promised to no longer have the police remove passengers from planes that are too full.
联合航空的首席执行官在最初捍卫航空公司的政策之后表示了歉意。联合航空已向该航班上的每位乘客提供退款，并承诺不再让警方将乘客从满员航班上带走。
“This horrible situation has provided a harsh learning experience from which we will take immediate, concrete action,” the company said in a statement Thursday. “We have committed to our customers and our employees that we are going to fix what’s broken so this never happens again.”
“这件可怕的事情提供了一个严酷的学习经历，我们将立即采取具体行动。”该公司周四在一份声明中说：“我们已经对我们的客户和员工承诺，我们将解决出现的问题，让这样的事情不再发生。”
Those assurances have done little to quell the outrage, visible in the phalanx of news cameras from around the world that assembled Thursday to hear from Mr. Demetrio and Crystal Dao Pepper, one of Dr. Dao’s five children. Mr. Demetrio said he thought the company’s apology had been “staged,” and said he was not aware of any attempts by United officials to contact Dr. Dao.
这些保证未能平息愤怒，周四，来自世界各地的密集的新闻摄影机对准了德米特里奥，以及杜医生五个孩子之一的克里斯特尔·杜·佩珀(Crystal Dao Pepper)。德米特里奥说，他认为公司的道歉是在“作秀”，他不知道联合航空的官员曾经试图联系过杜医生。
“What happened to my dad should have never happened to any human being regardless of the circumstances,” Ms. Dao Pepper said. She said her father was catching a connecting flight in Chicago to his home in Louisville, Ky., after a vacation in California.
杜·佩珀说：“我爸爸遇到的事情，不应该发生在任何人身上，不管什么情况。”她说父亲在加利福尼亚度过假之后，在芝加哥转机前往肯塔基州路易斯维尔市。
Federal lawmakers have called for investigations, and officials from United and Chicago’s Aviation Department faced a panel of city aldermen on Thursday who demanded answers and offered pointed critiques.
联邦议员已经要求进行调查，联合航空和芝加哥航空部门的官员周四接受了一个市参议员小组的质询，后者要求他们做出答复，并对其进行了尖锐的批评。
“This, I think, pulled off the Band-Aid that shows there’s a lot of resentment among American consumers toward airlines generally,” an alderman, Brendan Reilly, said. “One would hope that this would serve as a wake-up call.”
“我认为，这拉开了创口贴，表明美国消费者对航空公司普遍抱有很大的怨愤，”市参议员布伦丹·赖利(Brendan Reilly)说。“你希望这件事会成为一个警钟。”
Like others, Mr. Demetrio questioned United’s approach to resolving the overbooking situation. He said Dr. Dao needed to get back to Kentucky that night, but increasing the compensation offer might have enticed another passenger to agree to take a later flight.
像其他人一样，德米特里奥对联合航空解决机票超售的方法提出了质疑。他说，当天晚上，杜医生需要回到肯塔基州，但增加赔偿金可能会吸引另一名乘客改乘晚些时候的航班。
“How high are they going to go?” Mr. Demetrio said. “Eventually, someone’s going to say ‘Yeah, I’ll leave.’ ”
“他们愿意提供多高的补偿金？”德米特里奥说。“高到最后，有人会说‘好，我下飞机。’”
Even as millions have watched the footage of Dr. Dao screaming as he was removed from the flight, his family has asked for privacy. Mr. Demetrio said that his client fled Vietnam in the 1970s and that he and his wife worked as physicians in Kentucky. He said four of Dr. Dao’s children are also doctors.
即使已经有数以百万计的人看到了杜医生从飞机拖离时候嚎叫的视频，他的家人还是要求尊重他的隐私。德米特里奥说，杜医生在1970年代逃离越南的，与妻子在肯塔基州当医生。他说杜医生的四个孩子也是医生。
“He left Vietnam in 1975 when Saigon fell, and he was on a boat and he said he was terrified,” Mr. Demetrio said, recalling a conversation with his client. “He said that being dragged down the aisle was more horrifying and terrible than what he experienced in leaving Vietnam.”
“他在1975年西贡被攻陷的时候离开了越南，是坐船离开的，他说当时吓坏了。”德米特里奥在回想与客户的交谈时说，“他说，在飞机过道上被拖走的经历比离开越南的经历更加可怕和糟糕。”
Dr. Dao has not spoken publicly about the ordeal, and Mr. Demetrio declined to comment on his whereabouts, other than saying he was in a secure location. While some have pointed to the episode as an example of racism toward Asians, Mr. Demetrio said he did not believe race played a role in what happened.
杜医生还没有公开谈论这场痛苦，而德米特里奥拒绝透露杜医生目前的下落，只说他现在待在安全的地方。虽然有些人指出，此事是针对亚裔的种族主义的例子，但德米特里奥说他不相信族裔在这件事里发挥了什么作用。
Mr. Demetrio, a well-known Chicago personal injury lawyer who has handled several high-profile cases, said the eventual lawsuit would probably be filed in the Illinois court system. In the meantime, he said Dr. Dao was hoping to recover quietly and never set foot on another airplane.
德米特里奥是芝加哥的名律师，擅长打人身伤害官司，处理过几起知名案件，他表示最后可能会在伊利诺伊州的法院提起诉讼。与此同时，他说杜医生希望能够安静地恢复身心，永远不要再踏上另一架飞机。