The Federal Reserve, increasingly confident in the durability of economic growth, expects to start pulling back later this year from its efforts to stimulate the economy, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday.
美国联邦储备委员会（Federal Reserve，简称美联储）主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)周三表示，美联储对经济持续增长的信心越来越强，计划在今年晚些时候收缩其刺激措施。
Mr. Bernanke, offering new details, said the central bank intends to scale down gradually its monthly purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds beginning later this year and ending when the unemployment rate hits 7 percent, which the Fed expects to happen by the middle of next year.
伯南克公布了新的细节，他说，央行有意从今年晚些时候开始，逐步收缩其每月国债和抵押债券购买规模，并在失业率降至7%时中止该资产购买计划，美联储预计这种情况将发生在明年年中。
The central bank would then take several more years to unwind the rest of its extraordinary stimulus campaign, slowly raising short-term interest rates from essentially zero to more normal levels after the jobless rate has fallen to 6.5 percent or lower.
在那之后，央行将花数年时间，逐步取消其他非常态的刺激措施；在失业率降至6.5%或更低后，央行会把几乎为零的短期利率慢慢提升到较为正常的水平。
He emphasized, however, that the timing of the retreat depends on the health of the economy; if growth falters, the central bank would slow, or even reverse, the process. The expectations of Fed officials for the next several years, published Wednesday, are more optimistic than the consensus of private forecasters.
但是，伯南克也强调，削减的进度取决于经济的健康状况，如果经济增长上不去，央行也会放缓甚至逆转这个过程。周三公布的美联储官员对未来几年的预期，比民间预测者达成的共识更加乐观。
Pulling back “would basically say that we’ve had a relatively decent economic outcome in terms of sustained improvement in growth and unemployment,” Mr. Bernanke said. “If things are worse, we will do more. If things are better, we will do less.”
收缩刺激措施“相当于表明，从持续改善的经济增长和失业状况来看，我们已经取得了相对不错的经济成果”，伯南克说，“如果状况比较糟，我们就会多做一些。如果状况比较好，我们就会少做一些。”
Mr. Bernanke’s comments, which followed a two-day meeting of the Fed’s policy-making committee, appeared to disappoint investors on Wall Street who had hoped that the central bank would do more for longer. Stocks fell, with the broad Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index dropping 1.39 percent; interest rates rose.
在美联储政策制定委员会为期两天的会议结束之后，伯南克如此发言，似乎令华尔街投资者们感到失望，他们希望央行能在更长的期限里多做一些。股市应声下跌，覆盖广泛的标准普尔500种股票指数下跌1.39%；利率则有所上升。
The Fed, in a statement released after the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, sounded notes of increased optimism about the economy, but unusually, the statement did not describe the bond-buying timeline. Mr. Bernanke said he had been “deputized” to share the details at the news conference.
在联邦公开市场委员会(Federal Open Market Committee)会后发表的一份声明中，美联储表达了对经济状况更加乐观的看法，但不寻常的是，这份声明没有给出债券购买的时间表。伯南克在新闻发布会上说，他是在“受托”分享细节。
The statement said that the economy was expanding “at a moderate pace” and that the job market was improving. Most significantly, it noted that risks to growth had “diminished since last fall,” an important assertion because the Fed has been trying in part to shield the economy from the consequences of reductions in federal spending. Those consequences have been milder than expected.
该声明表示，经济正在“以一种温和的步伐”扩张，就业市场正在改善。最重要的是，它指出，增长面临的风险“自去年秋季以来已经减少”，这个提法十分重要，因为美联储多少在试图保护经济不受联邦开支削减的影响；这些影响比预期的要小。
In a separate forecast released at the same time, Fed officials predicted that the unemployment rate would decline more quickly than they had projected, dropping to between 6.5 percent and 6.8 percent by the end of 2014. In March, they predicted that the rate would fall by the end of next year to between 6.7 percent and 7 percent.
在同时发布的一份单独的预测报告中，美联储官员预计，失业率降低的速度将快于他们此前的预期，2014年底时将降至6.5%和6.8%之间。今年3月，他们曾预测到明年年底，失业率将降至6.7%和7%之间。
The Fed said that it would continue for now to buy $85 billion a month in Treasury securities and mortgage-backed bonds, in addition to holding short-term interest rates near zero. Both policies are intended to ease financial conditions, to encourage economic activity and to increase the pace of job creation.
美联储表示，除了保持短期利率接近于零之外，它暂时还会继续每月购买850亿美元的国债和抵押债券。这两项政策旨在缓解财政状况，鼓励经济活动，以及加快创造就业机会的步伐。
Two of the 12 members of the Federal Open Market Committee dissented. Esther George, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, reiterated her concern that the Fed was doing too much. James Bullard, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, broke with the majority for the first time this year to express concern about the sagging pace of inflation.
联邦公开市场委员会的12名成员中，有两名持有不同意见。堪萨斯城联邦储备银行总裁艾斯特·乔治(Esther George)重申了她对美联储过分干预的担忧。圣路易斯联邦储备银行总裁詹姆斯·布拉德(James Bullard)今年首次与委员会大多数成员意见相左，他对通胀降低的速度表达了担忧。
Economic conditions have improved modestly since the Fed began its latest round of asset purchases last September. The economy has added about 197,000 jobs a month, and the unemployment rate has fallen slightly to 7.6 percent in May from 7.8 percent in September.
自从去年9月美联储开始新一轮的资产购买行动以来，经济状况已经略有改善。就业机会每月增加约19.7万个，失业率从去年9月的7.8%小幅降至今年5月的7.6%。
But the economic damage of the recession remains largely unrepaired. Job growth is basically keeping pace with population growth. The share of American adults with jobs has not increased in three years. Moreover, the Fed’s preferred measure of inflation has shrunk to an annual pace 1.05 percent, the lowest level in more than 50 years, as the economy continues to operate below capacity.
但衰退对经济造成的损害很大程度上仍未修复。就业增长基本上跟人口增长的步伐持平。有工作的美国成年人所占的比例在三年内并没有增加。此外，随着经济继续低负荷运转，美联储首选的通胀指标已经降低到每年1.05%，为50多年来的最低水平。
The Fed would prefer annual inflation to run closer to 2 percent, diminishing the risk of outright deflation, or a general fall in the level of prices, which can paralyze economic activity as buyers wait for lower prices.
美联储希望年通胀率接近2%，以便减少通货紧缩的风险，避免价格水平普遍下滑；价格下滑可能会导致经济活动瘫痪，因为买家会等着价格继续下跌。
Despite the fact that unemployment remains high and inflation remains low, the Fed has shown no sign of interest in expanding the pace of its stimulus campaign. Officials say that they are doing as much as they can. The debate instead has focused on how soon the Fed can afford to start buying fewer bonds.
尽管失业率居高不下，通货膨胀率仍然很低，但没有任何迹象表明，美联储有意加快其经济刺激措施的步伐。美联储的官员们说，他们已经尽力了。辩论转而集中于美联储能够多早开始减少债券购买规模，而不至于引发问题。
Mr. Bernanke said on Wednesday that even as the Fed pulls back, it still would be increasing its total bond holdings each month, and therefore that the stimulating effect also would continue to increase. He also emphasized the Fed’s intent to hold short-term rates near zero well beyond the end of the asset purchases, a policy that the Fed regards as significantly more potent.
伯南克周三表示，即使美联储收缩资产购买规模，它的债券总持有量仍然会每月增加，因此，刺激效果也将继续增进。他还强调，美联储计划在资产购买计划中止之后的相当一段时间里维持接近于零的短期利率；美联储将低利率视为一个明显更加有力的政策。
“Our intent from the beginning was to use asset purchases as a way to achieve some near-term momentum and then to allow the low interest rate policy to carry us through,” he said.
“从一开始，我们的意图就是用资产购买计划来获取一些短期增长势头，然后让低利率政策带着我们向前迈进。”他说。