A man on an overbooked United Airlines flight was forcibly removed from his seat and dragged through the aisle on Sunday, and video of the anguished protests by him and other passengers spread rapidly on Monday as people criticized the airline’s tactics. A police officer involved in the episode has been placed on leave, authorities said.
上周日，联合航空(United Airlines)一趟被超额预定的航班上的一名的男子被强行带离自己的座位，拖拽着穿过飞机过道。他和其他乘客愤怒抗议的视频在周一迅速传播开来，人们对航空公司的策略予以指责。当局表示，一名卷入该事件的警察已被停职。
At least two passengers documented the confrontation on the flight, which was scheduled to depart Chicago O’Hare for Louisville, Kentucky, at 5:40 p.m. Central time but was delayed two hours. Their videos show a police officer in plain clothes wrestling the man from his seat and dragging him by his arms, as his glasses slid down his face and his shirt rose above his midriff.
至少有两名乘客记录了飞机上的对峙场面，这趟航班原先会在美国中央标准时间下午5点40分离开芝加哥奥黑尔国际机场，飞往肯塔基州的路易斯维尔，但后来延误两个小时。他们拍摄的视频显示，一名便衣警察这名男子从椅子上揪起，拽着的胳膊往外扯，男子的眼镜滑落，衬衫牵动，露出了腹部。
Charlie Hobart, a United spokesman, said in a telephone interview on Monday that “we had asked several times, politely” for the man to relinquish his seat before force was used.
联合航空发言人查理·霍巴特(Charlie Hobart)在周一接受电话采访时表示，在动用武力之前，“我们曾礼貌地问了好几次”，请这名男士离开自己的座位。
A passenger, Tyler Bridges, said that when he arrived at the gate, United had announced that the flight was overbooked; the airline was offering $400 vouchers to anyone who would give up their seat, Bridges said in a telephone interview on Monday.
一位名为泰勒·布里奇斯(Tyler Bridges)的乘客在周一接受电话采访时表示，当他到达机舱口的时候，联合航空宣布这趟班机被超额预定了；航空公司会提供400美元的代金券给任何愿意放弃自己座位的乘客。
Nonetheless, the passengers boarded the plane.
尽管如此，乘客们还是登上了飞机。
An airline employee came on board and said United needed four people to get off, he said, adding that the airline had by then increased its incentive to an $800 voucher.
他说，一名航空公司员工登上飞机，称联合航空需要四名乘客下机，还表示航空公司已经将代金券的额度增加到了800美元。
Another United employee told passengers that the plane would not leave until four people got off, Bridges said. The employee then specified that the airline had four United employees who needed to get to Louisville, he said.
布里奇斯表示，另一名联合航空公司员工告诉乘客们，只有四名乘客下了机，飞机才能起飞。他提到，这名雇员接着进行了详细的说明，表示航空公司有四名雇员需要前往路易斯维尔。
Four passengers were selected to be bumped, and three left without incident, Hobart said.
霍巴特表示，四名乘客被选中腾出位置，其他三人平安无事地离开。
Then the United employee went to a man five rows behind Bridges. The man told the employee, “I’m not getting off the plane. I’m a doctor, I have to see patients in the morning,” Bridges said.
接着这名联合航空雇员走向距离布里奇斯身后五排的男子。这名男子告诉那位雇员，“我不会下飞机。我是名医生，必须在明天早上见我的病人，”布里奇斯说。
“We explained the scenario to the customer,” Hobart said. “That customer chose not to get out of his seat.”
“我向这名乘客解释了情况，”霍巴特说。“这名乘客选择不离开自己的座位。”
The United employee then told the man that if he did not get off the plane, she would call security. As she turned to leave, the man shouted after her, Mr. Bridges said. Specifically, he said, the passenger complained that he had been singled out because he was Chinese.
航空公司工作人员对这名乘客说，如果他不下飞机，她就叫保安。乘客布里奇斯说，这名工作人员转身离开时，该乘客冲她大声叫嚷，并抗议说，航空公司让他下飞机，因为他是华人。
“It was really intense, really uncomfortable,” he said.
“当时非常紧张，非常难堪，”他说。
In a statement, Oscar Munoz, the chief executive of United Airlines, called the episode “an upsetting event.”
在一项声明中，联合航空首席执行官奥斯卡·穆尼奥斯(Oscar Munoz)表示这是个“令人不安的事件”。
He said the company apologized for having to “reaccommodate” the customers.
他说，公司为不得不“另行安排”这些乘客表示道歉。
“Our team is moving with a sense of urgency to work with the authorities and conduct our own detailed review of what happened,” he said. “We are also reaching out to this passenger to talk directly to him and further address and resolve this situation.”
“我们的团队正积极与当局合作，并自我检讨到底发生了什么事，”他说：“我们也在联系这名乘客，和他直接沟通，进一步处理和解决这个问题。”
In a statement, United said, “We apologize for the overbook situation.”
在一项声明中，联合航空表示：“我们对于超卖机位的情况表示抱歉。”