For the most part, Ben Bernanke and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve have been good guys in these troubled economic times. They have tried to boost the economy even as most of Washington seemingly either forgot about the jobless, or decided that the best way to cure unemployment was to intensify the suffering of the unemployed. You can argue — and I would — that the Fed’s activism, while welcome, isn’t enough, and that it should be doing even more. But at least it didn’t lose sight of what’s really important.
在目前的经济困难时期，本·伯南克(Ben Bernanke)及其美联储(Federal Reserve)的同事多半情况下当了好人，他们都努力振兴经济。而与此同时华盛顿的多数人似乎要么是忘记了失业人群，要么是打定主意认为，解决失业的最佳方法是加重失业者的痛苦。大家可以提出——我就会这么说——美联储的行动主义虽说受到欢迎，但仍是不够的，应当做得更多。不过，它至少没有忽略真正重要之所在。
Until now.
现在却不是了。
Lately, Fed officials have been issuing increasingly strong hints that rather than doing more, they want to do less, that they are eager to start “tapering,” returning to normal monetary policy. The impression that the Fed is tired of trying so hard got even stronger last week, after a news conference in which Mr. Bernanke seemed quite happy to reinforce the message of an imminent reduction in stimulus.
最近，美联储官员一直在做出越来越强烈的暗示，他们不想多行动，而是想少行动，而且他们渴望开始“逐步退出”，回归惯常的货币政策。上周，伯南克在新闻发布会上似乎很乐于重申将减少刺激规模的讯息，这一印象变得更加强烈：美联储已经懒得再如此努力了。
The trouble is that this is very much the wrong signal to be sending given the state of the economy. We’re still very much living through what amounts to a low-grade depression — and the Fed’s bad messaging reduces the chances that we’re going to exit that depression any time soon.
问题在于，鉴于目前的经济形势，这释放了极其错误的信号。我们仍然深陷相当于轻度萧条的境况，而美联储的糟糕讯息减小了我们短期内摆脱这种萧条的可能性。
The first thing you need to understand is how far we remain from full employment four years after the official end of the 2007-9 recession. It’s true that measured unemployment is down — but that mainly reflects a decline in the number of people actively seeking jobs, rather than an increase in job availability. Look, for example, at the fraction of adults in their prime working years (25 to 54) who have jobs; that ratio fell from 80 to 75 percent in the recession, and has since recovered only to 76 percent.
首先需要明白的是，2007年到2009年的衰退正式结束四年后，我们仍离全面就业相距甚远。失业统计数据的确下降了，但这主要反映的是积极寻找工作的人数出现下降，而不是可以获取的工作岗位的数量上升。比方说，看看处在黄金就业期（25岁到54岁）的成年人就业比例，衰退期间，这一比例从80%降至75%，目前仅回升到了76%。
Given this grim reality — plus very low inflation — you have to wonder why the Fed is talking at all about reducing its efforts on the economy’s behalf.
鉴于这种灰暗的现实，再加上极低的通胀率，人们不禁要问，美联储为什么居然会以经济的名义，宣称要减少自身的努力？
Still, it’s just talk, right? Well, yes — but what the Fed says often matters as much as or more than what it does. This is inherent in the relationship between what the Fed more or less directly controls, namely short-term interest rates, and longer-term rates, which reflect expected as well as current short-term rates. Even if the Fed leaves short rates unchanged for now, statements that convince investors that these rates will be going up sooner rather than later will cause long rates to rise. And because long rates are what mainly matter for private spending, this will weaken growth and employment.
不过，这还只是说说而已，对吧？对，但是，美联储说什么一般和它做什么一样重要，甚至是更加重要。这植根于美联储多少直接控制的两样东西之间的关系，也就是短期利率与长期利率，后者同时反映预期的和当前的短期利率。就算美联储暂时不调整短期利率，只要做出声明让投资者确信，利率提高会早于预期，而非晚于预期， 也会导致长期利率提升。由于长期利率对私营部门支出很重要，这就会损害经济增长和就业。
Sure enough, rates have shot up since the tapering talk started. Two months ago the benchmark interest rate on 10-year U.S. government bonds was only 1.7 percent, close to a historic low. Since then the rate has risen to 2.4 percent — still low by normal standards, but, as I said, this isn’t a normal economy. Maybe the economic recovery will, as the Fed predicts, continue and strengthen despite that rise in rates. But maybe not, and in any case higher rates will surely mean a slower recovery than we would have had if Fed officials had avoided all that talk of tapering.
果不其然，自打出现“逐步退出”的言论后，利率飙升。两个月前，10年期美国国债的基准利率仅为1.7%，接近历史低点，之后则一路攀升至2.4%。虽说按照正常标准仍属较低，但正如我所说的，目前的经济状况并不正常。也许，就算利率上升，经济复苏也会按照美联储的预测持续下去，但也许不会。而且无论如何，较高的利率都必然意味着较慢的复苏，慢过美联储官员绝口不提“逐渐退出”的情况下我们本可以达到的水平。
Fed officials surely understand all of this. So what do they think they’re doing?
种种道理，美联储官员当然都明白。那么，他们觉得自己在干什么呢？
One answer might be that the Fed has quietly come to agree with critics who argue that its easy-money policies are having damaging side-effects, say by increasing the risk of bubbles. But I hope that’s not true, since whatever damage low rates may do is trivial compared with the damage higher rates, and the resulting rise in unemployment, would inflict.
答案之一可能是，美联储已经悄然开始赞同一些批评人士的观点，即美联储宽松的货币政策正在造成破坏性的副作用，比如加剧泡沫的风险。但我希望这个答案并不正确，因为无论低息可能造成何种损害，比起高息的危害，以及随之而来的失业率攀升，都微不足道。
In any case, my guess is that what’s really happening is a bit different: Fed officials are, consciously or not, responding to political pressure. After all, ever since the Fed began its policy of aggressive monetary stimulus, it has faced angry accusations from the right that it is “debasing” the dollar and setting the stage for high inflation — accusations that haven’t been retracted even though the dollar has remained strong and inflation has remained low. It’s hard to avoid the suspicion that Fed officials, worn down by the constant attacks, have been looking for a reason to slacken their efforts, and have seized on slightly better economic news as an excuse.
无论对不对，我猜实际发生的情况有所不同：美联储官员在有意无意地回应政治压力。毕竟，自从美联储开始积极的货币刺激政策以来，一直面临着来自右翼的愤怒指责，那就是美联储在“贬值”美元，并为高通胀提供沃土。尽管美元并未走软，通胀也一直保持在低水平，但这种指责并未消停。这让人不禁怀疑，被连番攻击搞得筋疲力竭的美联储官员一直在寻找放松努力的理由，经济稍有好转，他们就抓住不放作为借口。
And maybe they’ll get away with it; maybe the economic recovery will strengthen and all will be well. But rising interest rates make that happy outcome less likely. And now that everyone knows that the Fed is eager to slacken off, it will be hard to get interest rates back down to where they were.
也许他们可以侥幸成功，也许经济复苏会加强，然后万事大吉。但攀升的利率会使这种皆大欢喜的可能性降低。而且，既然美联储放松努力的渴望人尽皆知，利率就很难再回到原有水平。
It’s sad and depressing, in both senses of the word. The fundamental reason our economy is still depressed after all these years is that so many policy makers lost the thread, forgetting that job creation was their most urgent task. Until now the Fed was an exception; but now it seems to be joining the club. Et tu, Ben?
这既悲哀又令人沮丧。不只是令人沮丧，经济也萎靡不振。好几年过去了，我们的经济仍然萎靡不振，其根本原因在于太多的决策者毫无头绪，他们忘记了自己最紧迫的任务是创造就业岗位。美联储之前一直是个例外，不过现在看来，它也同流合污了。本，连你都这样？