Six years ago, Paul Ryan, who has since become the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and the G.O.P.’s leading voice on matters economic, had an Op-Ed article published in The Times. Under the headline “Thirty Years Later, a Return to Stagflation,” he warned that the efforts of the Obama administration and the Federal Reserve to fight the effects of financial crisis would bring back the woes of the 1970s, with both inflation and unemployment high.
六年前，保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)在《纽约时报》发表评论文章。在这篇标题为《30年后，滞涨重现》(Thirty Years Later, a Return to Stagflation)的文章中，瑞安警告称，奥巴马政府和美联储(Federal Reserve)对抗金融危机影响的举措会重新引发20世纪70年代出现的问题——通货膨胀和高失业率。瑞安现在已经成为众议院筹款委员会(House Ways and Means Committee)主席、共和党经济事务方面的主要人物。
True, not all Republicans agreed with his assessment. Many asserted that we were heading for Weimar-style hyperinflation instead.
的确，并非所有共和党人都同意他的评价。很多人认为，我们正朝着魏玛式(Weimar-style)恶性通货膨胀发展。
Needless to say, those warnings proved totally wrong. Soaring inflation never materialized. Job creation was sluggish at first, but more recently has accelerated dramatically. Far from seeing a rerun of that ’70s show, what we’re now looking at is an economy that in important respects resembles that of the 1990s.
不用说，事实证明，这些警告是完全错误的。通胀飙升的情况从未出现。就业市场起初并不景气，但最近已经加速反弹。我们没有看到70年代的情景再现，我们看到的经济状态在一些重要方面倒是与20世纪90年代的情况类似。
To be sure, there are big differences between America in 2015 and America in the ’90s. TV is much better now, the situation of workers much worse. While stocks are high and there is talk of a new technology bubble, there’s nothing like the old euphoria. There is also, unfortunately, no sign that the great productivity surge of 1995-2005, brought on as businesses adopted information technology, is coming back.
当然，2015年的美国和90年代的美国有着巨大的差异。现在的电视要好得多，而工人的境遇却糟糕得多。虽然股价高涨，有传言称会出现新的科技泡沫，但并不存在类似过去的那种乐观情绪。遗憾的是，也没有迹象表明1955-2005年期间，随着企业采用信息技术生产力大增的现象会重现。
Still, we’re now adding jobs at a rate not seen since the Clinton years. And it goes without saying that low inflation combined with rapid job growth makes nonsense of all those predictions that Obamacare, or maybe just the president’s bad attitude, would destroy the private sector.
但我们现在创造就业的速度是克林顿(Clinton)执政以来从未见过的。不言而喻，低通胀和高就业增长率使以下预言成为无稽之谈，即奥巴马医改(Obamacare)，或者可能只是奥巴马糟糕的态度，会摧毁私营领域。
But pointing out yet again just how wrong the usual suspects on the right have been about, well, everything isn’t the only reason to note parallels with the 1990s. There are also implications for monetary policy: Recent job gains have brought the Fed to a fork in the road very much like the situation it faced circa 1995. Now, as then, job growth has taken the official unemployment rate down to a level at which, according to conventional wisdom, the economy should be overheating and inflation should be rising. But now, as then, there is no sign of the predicted inflation in the actual data.
但是，再次指出右派的老对手针对所有问题的看法错得有多离谱，却并不是将当今时代与20世纪90年代相提并论的唯一原因。货币政策也受到了影响：最近的就业增长将美联储带到了一个分叉口，很像它在大约1995年面临的情况。如今，就像当时一样，就业增长使官方公布的失业率降至一定水平，在传统观念中，失业率降至这种水平时，经济会过热，通货膨胀率会上升。但现在，如同当年，实际数据没有显示出会出现预测的通胀情况的迹象。
The Fed has a so-called dual mandate — it’s supposed to achieve both price stability and full employment. At this point price stability is conventionally taken to mean low but positive inflation, at around 2 percent a year. What does it mean to achieve full employment? For the Fed, it means reaching the Nairu — the nonaccelerating inflation rate of unemployment, which is consistent with that inflation target.
美联储有一个所谓的双重任务——应该实现物价稳定，充分就业的目标。在当下，稳定的物价通常被看成是较低的，但数值为正的通货膨胀，一年在2%左右。实现充分就业意味着什么呢？对于美联储来说，这意味着达到非加速通货膨胀失业率，这与上述通胀目标一致。
The Fed currently estimates the Nairu at between 5.2 percent and 5.5 percent, and the latest report puts the actual unemployment rate at 5.5 percent. So we’re there — time to raise interest rates!
美联储现在认定这个数字应该在5.2%至5.5%之间，最新的报告显示实际失业率为5.5%。因此，我们已经达到这个水平，是时候上调利率了！
Or maybe not. The Nairu is supposed to be the unemployment rate at which the economy overheats and an inflationary spiral starts to kick in. But there is no sign of inflationary pressure. In particular, if the job market really were tight, wages would be rising quickly, whereas they are in fact going nowhere.
或者不然。非加速通货膨胀失业率应该是经济过热、通货膨胀开始出现螺旋式上升时的失业率水平。但没有迹象表明目前存在通胀压力。特别是，如果就业市场真的非常紧张，工资会快速上涨，而实际上，工资并没有变化。
The thing is, we’ve been here before. In the early-to-mid 1990s, the Fed generally estimated the Nairu as being between 5.5 percent and 6 percent, and by 1995, unemployment had already fallen to that level. But inflation wasn’t actually rising. So Fed officials made what turned out to be a very good choice: They held their fire, waiting for clear signs of inflationary pressure. And it turned out that the United States’ economy was capable of generating millions more jobs, without inflation, than it would have if the Fed had reined in the boom too soon.
问题是，我们曾面临这样的处境。在20世纪90年代早期至中期，美联储通常认为非加速通货膨胀失业率应该在5.5%至6%之间，到1995年，失业率下降至这个水平，但通胀率实际上没有上升。因此，美联储官员做出了一个结果证明非常正确的选择：他们没有采取行动，等待出现明显的迹象表明存在通胀压力。结果证明，美国经济能够在不产生通胀的情况下创造就业，如果美联储过早插手控制，可能会少创造数百万个就业岗位。
Are we in a similar situation now? Actually, I don’t know — but neither does the Fed. The question, then, is what to do in the face of that uncertainty, with no inflation problem yet in sight.
我们目前身处的情形与之类似吗？说实话，我不知道——不过美联储也不知道。那么问题来了，面对这样的不确定性，通胀问题也尚未显露出迹象，我们究竟该怎么办？
To me, as to a number of economists — perhaps most notably Lawrence Summers, the former Treasury secretary — the answer seems painfully obvious: Don’t yank away that punch bowl, don’t pull that rate-hike trigger, until you see the whites of inflation’s eyes. If it turns out that the Fed has waited a bit too long, inflation might overshoot 2 percent for a while, but that wouldn’t be a great tragedy. But if the Fed moves too soon, we might end up losing millions of jobs we could have had — and in the worst case, we might end up sliding into a Japanese-style deflationary trap, which has already happened in Sweden and possibly in the eurozone.
在我看来，还有不少经济学家——其中最引人注目的或许是前财政部长劳伦斯·萨默斯(Lawrence Summers)——看来，答案再明显不过：不要撤去宴会上的美酒，不要扣下加息的扳机，直到你将通胀的迹象看得真真切切。假如事后证明美联储等待的时间长了一点，那么通胀率也许会比2%高出那么一阵子，但这也不是什么巨大的悲剧。可是，倘若美联储行动太早，我们就可能会落得少增加数百万工作岗位的下场——最糟糕的可能性是，我们会滑入日本式的通缩陷阱。这样的情形已在瑞典上演，还可能降临到欧元区头上。