David Dao, the man who was seen being dragged off a United Airlines jet on April 9 in videos that sparked widespread outrage, has reached a settlement with the airline for an undisclosed amount, his lawyers said on Thursday.
杜成德(David Dao)4月9日被拖离美国联合航空公司飞机的视频曾引起了广泛愤怒。他的律师周四表示，他现在已经与该航空公司达成了和解，但未透露金额。
“Mr. Munoz said he was going to do the right thing, and he has,” Thomas A. Demetrio, one of Dao’s lawyers, said of Oscar Munoz, United’s chief executive. “In addition, United has taken full responsibility for what happened on Flight 3411, without attempting to blame others, including the city of Chicago. For this acceptance of corporate accountability, United is to be applauded.”
“穆尼奥斯说他要做正确的事情，他确实也做到了，”杜成德的律师托马斯·A·德米特里奥(Thomas A. Demetrio)谈到联合航空首席执行官奥斯卡·穆尼奥斯(Oscar Munoz)时说。“此外，联合航空公司已经对3411号航班上发生的事情负起了全部责任，并没有试图怪罪其他人，包括芝加哥市。从担责的角度说，联合航空是值得赞扬的。”
Charles Hobart, a United spokesman, confirmed the settlement.
联合航空的发言人查尔斯·霍巴特(Charles Hobart)证实双方达成了和解。
“We are pleased to report that United and Dr. Dao have reached an amicable resolution of the unfortunate incident that occurred aboard flight 3411,” he said in an email. “We look forward to implementing the improvements we have announced, which will put our customers at the center of everything we do.”
他说：“我们很高兴地通知大家，联合航空和杜医生友好地解决了3411航班上发生的不幸事件。”他在一封电邮中说。“我们将实施之前宣布的改进措施，让客户成为我们一切工作的中心。”
On Thursday, United announced several steps to prevent such episodes from recurring and said that passengers who had arrived on an aircraft shouldn’t have to give up their seats. The airline said it would create a new check-in process that would allow passengers to volunteer to give up their seats for compensation, and increased the limit of that compensation to $10,000 from $1,350.
本周四，该公司宣布了几项措施来防止这种情况的再次发生，宣称已经登机的乘客不必再放弃座位。该公司表示，他们将制定一个新的登机流程，而对于那些自愿放弃座位的乘客，赔偿上限将从1350美元（约合人民币9300元）提高到1万美元。
United had previously announced that it would no longer ask law enforcement officers to remove passengers from its planes over booking issues, and that crew members would be booked into seats at least an hour before departure.
该公司之前还宣布，对于预订问题，不会再召来执法人员将乘客带离飞机。而且员工在搭乘航班出行前要至少一个小时预订座位。