The Alibaba Group’s dust-up with one of its Chinese regulators may have settled down, but the Securities and Exchange Commission is still interested in more information about the dispute.
阿里巴巴集团与中国一家监管机构的纷争也许已经结束，但美国证券交易委员会（Securities and Exchange Commission，简称SEC）仍然想要获得关于这场分歧的更多信息。
Alibaba disclosed on Friday that it had received a request from the S.E.C. for more information about the clash with China’s State Administration for Industry and Commerce.
阿里巴巴周五透露，它收到了一个来自SEC的请求，后者希望获得关于它与中国国家工商总局之间的冲突的更多信息。
The S.A.I.C. had released what was initially billed as an official report criticizing Alibaba for failing to curb the sale of fake items on its marketplaces. The issue, as the document put it, posed the company’s “biggest credibility crisis since it was founded.”But Alibaba fought back publicly, accusing an official at the S.A.I.C. of using inappropriate procedures in the investigation. Within days, the Chinese regulator softened its criticism of the company and demoting the paper to an unofficial document without legal weight.
国家工商总局最初发布了一份官方报告，批评阿里巴巴未能遏制其网络商城中销售假货的行为。文件中说，这个问题使这家公司“自身面临成立以来的最大诚信危机”。不过，阿里巴巴公开进行了回击，指责国家工商总局的一名官员在调查中存在程序失当。几天之内，这家机构软化了对这家公司的批评，把报告降级为一份没有法律意义的非正式文件。
The S.E.C. has jurisdiction because Alibaba is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, having raised $25 billion in its initial public offering last year.
由于阿里巴巴是纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)的上市企业，SEC对其有管辖权。去年首次公开发行时，该公司募集到了250亿美元（约合1560亿元人民币）。
In a statement, the company said that it was cooperating with the American regulator’s informal inquiry. But Alibaba also emphasized that it had no obligation to disclose the request from the commission, since it is not a formal investigation.
该公司在声明中表示自己正在配合美国监管机构的非正式调查。但阿里巴巴也强调自己没有义务公布该委员会的要求，因为这并非正式调查。
“The S.E.C. letter states it should in no way be construed as Alibaba Group having done anything wrong or there having been any violation of securities law,” a spokesman for Alibaba said. “We are committed to maintaining an open, transparent and cooperative relationship with all regulatory agencies and look forward to a constructive dialogue.”
“SEC的信明确表示，无需将此举解读为是阿里巴巴集团做错了什么，或违反了证券法，”阿里巴巴的发言人说。“我们致力于同所有监管机构保持一种公开、透明、合作的关系，期待进行有建设性的对话。”