WASHINGTON —  The Federal Reserve is still waiting for clear evidence that the economy can grow decently without its help.
华盛顿——美联储(Federal Reserve)仍在等待清晰的证据显示，经济可在没有其帮助的情况下稳步增长。
The Fed’s widely expected announcement on Wednesday that it would press ahead with its stimulus campaign of asset purchases and low interest rates reflected the reality that the nation’s central bankers gained little clarity in the six weeks since their last meeting, in part because the government shutdown delayed and distorted key economic indicators.
本周三，备受期待的美联储公告出炉，它将继续推行资产购买与低息的刺激计划。这反映了一种现实情况，也就是美联储官员自上次会晤以来，没有获得多少明确的认识，而部分原因在于，政府停摆推迟并扭曲了关键的经济指标。
The statement, issued after a scheduled two-day meeting of its policy-making committee, amounted to a declaration that the Fed is not yet ready to decide, and it shed little light on how soon changes may come.
依照原定计划，美联储负责决策的委员会召开了两天会议，随后发表声明。它等于是在宣布，美联储尚未准备好做出决策。对于变化来临的可能时间，声明也未能提供多少信息。
The Fed maintained its optimistic assessment of “growing underlying strength in the broader economy,” contrasting the recovery of the private sector with the continued drag of federal spending cuts. It said that the availability of jobs was improving and that it expected inflation to rebound from its sluggish pace. Notably, it made no direct mention of the shutdown.
美联储保持了对“宏观经济核心力量正逐步增强”的乐观评估，并将私营部门的复苏与联邦减支所带来的负面作用进行了对比。声明中表示，就业形势正在改善，并且预计通胀将从目前的疲软状态中反弹。值得关注的是，公告中没有直接提及停摆事件。
But despite the relatively sunny forecast, largely unchanged from the Fed’s last meeting in September, Fed officials remain reluctant to pull back. As a result, the central bank will continue to add $85 billion a month to its portfolio of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities.
然而，尽管美联储做出了较为乐观的预测，与9月的上次会议大体一致，但联储官员仍不愿撤回刺激计划。结果，美联储将继续在其国债与抵押贷款担保证券的投资组合中每月增加850亿美元（约合5180亿元人民币）的购买量。
And the Fed, if anything, has reinforced its commitment to hold short-term interest rates near zero through next year and well into 2015. “Taking into account the extent of federal fiscal retrenchment over the past year, the committee sees the improvement in economic activity and labor market conditions since it began its asset purchase program as consistent with growing underlying strength in the broader economy,” the Federal Open Market Committee said. “However, the committee decided to await more evidence that progress will be sustained before adjusting the pace of its purchases.”
如果说有何不同的话，那就是美联储强调了自身的承诺，即在明年全年到2015年的大部分时间里，会将短期利率维持在接近零的水平。“考虑到过去一年联邦财政紧缩的程度，本委员会看到，开始资产购买计划以来的经济活动及劳动力市场改善，与宏观经济核心力量的逐步增强相一致，”联邦公开市场委员会(Federal Open Market Committee)称。“不过，委员会决定，在调整购买步伐之前，等待更多证据，以确保进展将得以维持。”
Analysts and investors reacted to the statement as moderately increasing the chances that the Fed would begin to retreat, or taper back on its purchases, in December, when the committee holds its final scheduled meeting of the year. Stocks fell slightly. Yet most analysts said they continued to regard the Fed as more likely to wait until the spring.
针对这一声明，一些分析人士与投资者的反应是，美联储12月份开始退出的几率有小幅提升。联邦公开市场委员会届时将举行计划中的本年度最后一次会议。股市出现微跌。不过，多数分析人士表示，他们仍然认为，美联储更可能会等到明年春天。
“This is a somewhat hawkish statement, but we don’t think it’s so hawkish as to change our expectations for a first tapering in April,” Michael Feroli, chief United States economist at JPMorgan Chase, wrote to clients.
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)的首席美国经济师迈克尔·费罗利(Michael Feroli)在写给客户的报告中称，“该声明多少表现了鹰派态度，但我们认为，它没有强硬到需要改变明年4月开始退出的预期。”
Fed officials spent much of the summer preparing investors for a retreat from its stimulus campaign before the end of the year.
今夏的多数时间里，美联储官员都在让投资者做好心理准备，可能会于年底前开始退出其刺激计划。
But there is still little sign that the Fed has succeeded in increasing job growth. The share of adults with jobs remains at roughly its post-recession nadir. The unemployment rate has fallen largely because fewer people are looking for jobs.
然而，没有多少迹象表明，美联储已在改善就业增长上取得成功。成人就业率保持在接近衰退后最低点的水平，而失业率下降的大部分原因是找工作的人数减少了。
Some analysts saw the Fed’s upbeat description of the job market as evidence of its desire to retreat, even if it is not prepared to set that in motion yet.
一些分析人士认为，美联储对就业市场的乐观描述，表明了它想要停止刺激措施的意愿，即使它尚未准备好采取行动。
The description “is not true, and we know it, the data has been weakening on this front,” wrote Eric Green, global head of rates research at TD Securities. “One must view the emphasis here as reason to lean against the view that the Fed has gone soft.”
而道明证券(TD Securities)利率研究全球负责人格林(Eric Green)写道，美联储的描述“不符合事实，我们知道，这方面的数据一直在走低。人们不应该把美联储强调的东西看做是支持它放弃刺激措施的理由。”
Mr. Green added, however, that he still did not expect the Fed to begin its retreat until March, because its desire remained constrained by the weak economic reality.
格林补充说，他仍然不认为美联储会在3月之前开始结束刺激政策，因为即使美联储想要这么做，仍然受限于疲弱的经济形势。
Inflation has fallen well below the 2 percent annual pace the Fed has established as its goal. Prices rose in August at an annual pace of 1.2 percent, excluding food and fuel, according to the Fed’s preferred measure, the Commerce Department’s index of personal consumption expenditures.
通胀一直走低，目前已远低于美联储设定的2%的年度通胀率目标。根据美联储偏爱的指标——商务部的个人消费支出价格指数，8月的年化通胀率为1.2%，该指数不包括食品和燃料价格。
The statement said persistently low inflation “could pose risks to economic performance,” but reiterated the Fed’s expectation that inflation will rebound to a healthier level.
声明说，持续的低通胀率可能会对经济表现造成风险。但重申了美联储的预期，即通胀将会反弹到一个更健康的水平。
The combination of persistently high unemployment and low inflation has prompted some Fed officials, and outside critics, to question whether the asset purchases are worthwhile.
持续的高失业率和低通胀率使一些美联储官员以及外部的批评人士质疑，美联储购买资产的做法是否有用。
“With the benefits of quantitative easing essentially at zero, this equivocating action by the Fed is less about the economy and more about its unwillingness to begin the tapering that everyone knows must begin,” Representative Kevin Brady, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the congressional Joint Economic Committee, said in a statement.
美国国会联合经济委员会(Joint Economic Committee)主席、得克萨斯州共和党众议员凯文·布雷迪(Kevin Brady)在一份声明中说，“量化宽松的益处基本为零，美联储的这种瞻前顾后的行动不是为了提振经济，更多是因为不愿意开始逐步缩减购债规模，而每个人都知道逐步缩减的行动必须开始。”
Wednesday’s decision was supported by nine of the 10 voting members on the Fed’s policy-making committee. Esther L. George, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, dissented as she has done at each meeting this year, repeating her concerns that the Fed’s campaign risks destabilizing financial markets and unleashing inflation.
美联储政策制定委员会的10名投票成员中，有九名成员赞成周三的决定。堪萨斯城联邦储备银行行长埃斯特·L·乔治(Esther L. George)表示反对——她在今年的每次会议中都是如此，并重申了她的担忧，即美联储的行动可能会破坏金融市场的稳定，释放通货膨胀。
Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said in 2010 that he had accepted a second term as Fed chairman in part to manage the Fed’s exit from its stimulus campaign. But he is scheduled to step down at the end of January, making it increasingly likely that the pullback will be directed by Janet Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairwoman and President Obama’s nominee to succeed Mr. Bernanke.
美联储主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)2010年说，他之所以接受了第二任期，部分原因是为了完成美联储对刺激政策的终结。但是伯南克将在1月末卸任，由珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)领导该行动的可能性越来越大。耶伦是美联储副主席，美国总统奥巴马已经提名她为伯南克的继任者。
The Senate Banking Committee is expected to hold a confirmation hearing for Ms. Yellen in mid-November. While she enjoys strong support among Democrats, Republicans could delay the process. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky has threatened to block a vote on the nomination until the Senate votes on his proposal to initiate regular audits of the Fed’s monetary policy.
参议院银行委员会(Senate Banking Committee)预计将在11月中旬为耶伦举行一场提名确认听证会。尽管耶伦在民主党人中拥有大批支持者，共和党人可能会拖延这一程序。肯塔基州的参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)已经做出威胁，将阻止对她的提名进行投票，除非参议院先对他提出的定期审计美联储货币政策的提议进行表决。