BEIJING — A day after the forced removal of a passenger from a United Airlines flight provoked a social media furor in the United States, a similar outcry followed in China, after state-run news outlets here described the man as being of Chinese descent.
北京——美国联合航空公司将一名乘客强行拖下航班的事情，在发生后的一天里，引发了美国社交媒体上的群情激愤。随后，中国也爆发了类似的抗议，先是中国的官方新闻媒体把被拖下飞机的男子描述为华裔。
The man’s name has not been released, but another passenger on the flight Sunday said he had complained of being singled out because he was Chinese.
虽然该男子的名字尚未公布，但搭乘周日那次航班的另一名乘客说，该男子抱怨说他被选中，是因为他是华人。
By Tuesday afternoon, the hashtag “United forcibly removes passenger from plane” was the most popular topic on Weibo, China’s equivalent of Twitter, garnering more than 150 million views and more than 100,000 comments. Many Chinese social media users accused United of racism, while others called for a boycott.
截至周二下午，“美联航强制乘客下机”的话题在相当于中国Twitter的微博上已经是最热门的，有逾1.5亿次阅读和10万条以上评论。许多中国社交媒体用户指责美联航种族歧视，也有些人呼吁抵制美联航。
The outrage was furious and sustained, with internet users calling on United to apologize for its treatment of the man, who was dragged from his seat by security officers after refusing to be bumped from an overbooked flight from Chicago to Louisville, Ky.
这次公愤爆发得猛烈又持续，网民呼吁美联航为其对待该男子的做法道歉，该人乘坐的从芝加哥到肯塔基州路易斯维尔的航班超卖座位，在拒绝让出自己的位置后，被安保人员强行拖下飞机。
The episode was prominently displayed across the Chinese news media on Tuesday. CCTV, the state broadcaster, showed photos of the passenger’s bloodied face above the word, “Savage!” People’s Daily scolded United for failing to condemn the man’s treatment.
周二，中国各地的新闻媒体对这一事件进行了突出报道。最大的官方电视台网中央电视台播放了该乘客脸上带血的画面，还配有“野蛮！”的字样。《人民日报》批评美联航没有对该人遭受的待遇表示谴责。
United has said that the passenger and three others were selected to be removed from the flight after no one accepted the offer of a voucher to leave voluntarily. The other three passengers left without incident, the airline said. United’s chief executive, Oscar Munoz, apologized for “having to re-accommodate these customers,” called the episode “upsetting” and said the airline was conducting a review.
美联航表示，在无人愿意接受代金券自愿改签的情况下，该乘客和其他三名乘客被选中让出他们的座位。航空公司说，其他三名乘客离开飞机时没有发生问题。美联航首席执行官奥斯卡·穆尼奥斯(Oscar Munoz)为“不得不改签这些乘客的航班”表示道歉，称其为“令人不快”的事情，并表示航空公司正在对事情进行调查。
The controversy threatened to hurt United’s revenue in China, where the airline began flying in 1986 and has steadily built a loyal customer base. As of last May, United had 96 departures a week to cities in mainland China and Hong Kong.
这场争议已对美联航在中国的收入构成威胁，美联航于1986年开通了飞往中国的航班，并在中国稳步建立起一批忠实的客户。截至去年5月，美联航每周有96个航班从中国大陆城市和香港起飞。
Wang Guanxiong, 40, an angel investor in the technology industry in Beijing who travels frequently to Silicon Valley, said he would never fly on United again.
北京的高技术天使投资人、40岁的王冠雄经常飞硅谷，他表示再也不会乘坐美联航。
“Why did they choose an Asian out of so many passengers?” he said in a telephone interview. “Obviously Asians are the minorities.”
“他们为什么从那么多乘客中选中了一名亚裔？”王冠雄在接受电话采访时说。“亚裔显然是少数民族。”
People’s Daily said it was “gravely disappointing” that the airline had “mentioned nothing of the violence against the Asian passenger.”
《人民日报》说，航空公司事后“未提对该亚裔乘客采取的暴力行为令人非常失望”。
Zhang Zishi, a student from the coastal province of Shandong who lives in Britain, started a petition on the website of the White House calling for a federal investigation into the case, using the hashtag #ChineseLivesMatters. The petition has nearly 25,000 signatures.
张子石（音）是来自中国沿海省份山东的学生，现在住在英国，他在白宫的网站上用标签#ChineseLivesMatters（华人的命也是命）发起了一个请愿活动，呼吁联邦政府调查美联航。请愿书已有近2.5万个签名。
“I’ve learned from the media that there is a lot of racism in the United States,” Mr. Zhang, 18, said in a telephone interview. “I feel that Chinese people are treated unfairly.”
“我从媒体上了解到，美国有很多种族主义，”18岁的张先生在接受电话采访时说。“我觉得华人受到了不公平的待遇。”
Joe Wong, a popular Chinese-American comedian, was among those urging a boycott of United. “Many Chinese who have faced discrimination are unwilling to speak out because of their pride,” Mr. Wong wrote on Weibo. “Because of this attitude, neither mainstream Western media nor the public pays much attention to discrimination against Asians.”
受欢迎的美籍华裔喜剧演员黄西也是呼吁抵制美联航的人之一。黄西在微博上写道：“很多华人感觉自己受歧视但碍于面子不说出来，导致西方主流媒体和公众都不把亚裔歧视当回事儿。”