The economy is the victim of a little misunderstanding, Federal Reserve officials said on Thursday, telling investors who have sent borrowing costs soaring that they are misguided in believing the Fed’s stimulus campaign is about to wane.
美联储(Federal Reserve)官员周四表示，一场小小的误会伤害了经济。在投资者的推动下，借贷成本大幅提升，官员对这些投资者说，他们以为美联储的刺激计划即将削弱，其实是误解了。
The message, delivered in three separate but similar speeches, reflects the Fed’s frustration with a broad rise in interest rates that began in May and accelerated after remarks last week by the Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.
这个消息是在三则分别但内容相似的表态中传达的。利率从5月开始普遍上涨，在上周美联储主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)发表讲话后上涨步伐开始加速。上述表态反映出了美联储对利率广泛上升的不满。
“I don’t want to be too cute about a serious matter,” Dennis P. Lockhart, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, said in Marietta, Ga., “but to make an analogy, it seems to me the chairman said we’ll use the patch — and use it flexibly — and some in the markets reacted as if he said ‘cold turkey.’ ”
亚特兰大联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta)行长丹尼斯·P·洛克哈特(Dennis P. Lockhart)在乔治亚州玛丽埃塔表示，“我不想对严肃的事件轻描淡写，但如果打个比方的话，伯南克主席说的是我们会使用尼古丁贴片，而且会灵活运用。可是市场上某些人的反应却仿佛是，他说要强制戒烟，不用任何过渡措施。”
The speeches, including one by William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and one of Mr. Bernanke’s closest allies, appeared to make an impression, helped along by upbeat domestic economic data and an easing of concerns about Chinese financial conditions. Stocks rose modestly, ending up for the third day in a row, while interest rates ticked downward, inverting the recent pattern.
这三则表态中还包括伯南克的一个紧密盟友、纽约联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of New York)行长威廉·C·达德利(William C. Dudley)的一番话。上述表态似乎已经对市场产生了影响，其他因素还包括乐观的国内经济数据，以及对中国金融状况担忧的缓和。股市小幅上涨，连续第三天收市上扬，同时利率也一改最近的趋势出现下降。
On Wall Street, the broad Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index had risen for most of the first five months of the year, bringing it to a high of 1,669.16 on May 21. But the next day, after Mr. Bernanke first hinted at an impending change in Fed policy, stock prices began falling, and the S.& P. 500 eventually dropped 5.7 percent to a low on June 24, a few days after the most recent Fed policy statement. Since then, as Fed officials have sought to clarify their goals, the index has risen 2.5 percent, including Thursday’s 0.6 percent increase.
在华尔街，覆盖面广泛的标准普尔500股指(Standard & Poor’s 500)在今年头5个月的多数时间里都在上涨，在5月21日达到了1669.16点的高点。但第二天，在伯南克首次暗示美联储政策即将改变时，股价开始下跌，到美联储最新的政策声明发布几天后的6月24日，标普500股指最终下挫5.7%，降至低点。从这时开始，随着美联储官员努力澄清其目标，该指数上涨了2.5%，其中在周四上扬了0.6%。
On Thursday, the three officials emphasized that the Fed was increasingly optimistic about the durability of economic growth. And they reiterated that they expected to reduce the volume of the Fed’s monthly bond purchases later this year. But the Fed’s overall effort to reduce borrowing costs will continue as long as necessary, most likely for years to come.
周四，三名官员强调，美联储对于经济增长的可持续性越来越乐观。他们还重申，预期在今年晚些时候削减美联储每月买进债券的金额。不过美联储压低借贷成本的举措，只要有必要就会一直持续，极有可能在未来几年继续。
Investors, they said, need to gently place interest rates back down on the floor.
他们表示，投资者需要轻轻地将利率重新置于低水平。
“Market adjustments since May have been larger than would be justified by any reasonable reassessment of the path of policy,” said the Fed governor Jerome H. Powell.
美联储委员杰罗姆·H·鲍威尔(Jerome H. Powell)表示，“从5月以来市场调整的幅度，超过了对政策路线进行任何理性评估所能解释的程度。”
Mr. Dudley, who is also the vice chairman of the Fed’s policy-making committee, was even more emphatic. Investors expecting an early exit are “quite out of sync” with the Fed, he said. “A rise in short-term rates is very likely to be a long way off.”
达德利是美联储负责制定政策的委员会副主席，他的评价语气更为强烈。预期干预措施提前退场的投资者与美联储观点“十分不符”，他说，“提高短期利率很可能是很长时间以后的事儿。”
The Fed is struggling in a world of its own creation. The central bank, seeking new ways to stimulate the economy, has sought to manage investor expectations about the path of monetary policy. By convincing investors that it will keep interest rates low tomorrow, it can reduce borrowing costs today.
美联储正在自己一手创造的世界里挣扎。该央行正在寻求刺激经济的新方法，也在寻求管理投资者对于货币政策路径的预期。如果让投资者相信明天它会继续将利率保持在低位，美联储也就能降低今天的借贷成本。
In essence, the Fed is asking investors to stake vast sums on the proposition that it will do what it says. And investors, unsurprisingly, have become increasingly fearful about any sign that the Fed may change its plans.
本质上，美联储是在要求投资者，花大价钱赌美联储会言出必行。而并不意外的是，对于美联储可能改变计划的一切迹象，投资者正在变得越来越忧虑。
The mainstay of the Fed’s stimulus campaign is its stated intention to hold short-term interest rates near zero as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent. It has put further pressure on longer-term rates by amassing more than $3 trillion in Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities; since last December it has expanded those holdings by an additional $85 billion a month in a process known as quantitative easing, or Q.E.
美联储刺激计划中的主要举措是一项明确提出的目标：只要失业率仍高于6.5%，就会将短期利率维持在接近零的水平。它还通过买进超过3万亿美元（约合18.4万亿元人民币）的美国国债和抵押贷款担保证券，进一步压低长期利率。自去年12月开始，美联储开始以每月850亿美元的速度增持这些资产。这一过程被称为“量化宽松”(QE)。
Interest rates started rising in May after Mr. Bernanke suggested that the Fed might reduce the volume of its monthly purchases later this year. Rates rose much more quickly after he said last week that the Fed was planning to do exactly that.
5月，在伯南克暗示美联储可能会在今年晚些时候，削减每月买进的资产金额后，利率开始上升。而在上周，他明确表示这正是美联储的计划，之后利率上涨速度更是加快了。
Mr. Bernanke insisted that the Fed was not altering its plans for short-term rates. He said the Fed was not even altering its plans for asset purchases; it was just publicizing those plans for the first time. And he emphasized that the timetable would change if the economy grew more slowly than expected.
伯南克坚称，美联储并未改变它针对短期利率的计划。他说，美联储甚至也没有改变购买资产的计划，只是首次公布这些计划而已。他还强调，如果经济增长比预期的慢，时间表会作出调整。
But investors “seem to believe that Fed officials must have become at least somewhat more willing to consider earlier hikes if they are sufficiently comfortable with the economic outlook to preannounce Q.E. tapering,” wrote Jan Hatzius, chief economist at Goldman Sachs.
然而，高盛(Goldman Sachs)首席经济学家简·哈丘斯(Jan Hatzius)写道，投资者“似乎相信，既然美联储官员对于经济前景已经足够满意，愿意提前宣布QE放缓，那么他们肯定至少在一定程度上，也会更乐于提前提高利率”。
Investors are skeptical partly because the Fed has repeatedly overestimated the pace of growth in recent years. If it repeats the mistake, it could once again end up withdrawing stimulus prematurely. Moreover, the Fed has emphasized the unemployment rate as its measuring stick. That rate has declined largely because many jobless people have stopped looking for work, raising concerns that the Fed could meet its stated goals and begin to retreat while the economy remained relatively weak.
投资者感到怀疑的部分原因在于，美联储在近几年曾反复高估经济复苏的步伐。如果再重复一次这个错误，可能就会再一次过早地停止刺激举措。此外，美联储强调，其衡量指标是失业率。然而由于许多失业人口已经停止了寻找工作，所以失业率已经大幅下降。这促使人们开始担忧，美联储可能会在经济仍然相对乏力的时候，达到既定目标，进而开始收回刺激举措。