KABUL — Combat operations in Helmand Province officially ended on Sunday for the United States Marines and British troops stationed there, bringing an end to a decade-long struggle to keep a major Taliban stronghold and the region’s vast opium production in check.
喀布尔——周日，驻扎在赫尔曼德省的美国海军陆战队和英国军队的作战行动正式结束。他们的使命是控制塔利班的一个重要据点，以及这一地区大规模的鸦片生产。如今，这场长达10年的斗争划上了句号。
Officials commemorated the handover during simultaneous ceremonies at Camp Leatherneck for the Marines and Camp Bastion for the British forces, conjoined bases that made up the coalition headquarters for the region.
驻扎在皮领营地(Camp Leatherneck)的美国海军陆战队和驻扎在巴斯营地(Camp Bastion)的英国军队，同时举行了交接仪式。这两个营地共同组成了联军在该地区的总部。
The Afghan Army’s 215th Corps will assume full control of the camps, a 6,500-acre parcel of desert scrubland in Southwest Afghanistan — and with it responsibility for securing one of the most violent provinces in the country.
营地位于阿富汗西南部一片6500英亩，长着灌木丛的沙漠上。阿富汗陆军第215军将全面接手两座营地的控制权，并承担起为该国极为动荡的一个省份提供安全保障的责任。
While some American combat troops will remain in Afghanistan through the end of the year, the closing of Camp Bastion signified the end of all British operations in the country. During the nation’s long tenure in Helmand, which began in 2006, British forces lost 453 servicemen in the conflict.
尽管美国的一些作战部队在今年年底之前会继续留在阿富汗，但是巴斯营地的关闭标志着英国在阿富汗所有行动的终结。英军从2006年开始在赫尔曼省驻扎，在执行任务的漫长时间里，共有453名英国军人在冲突中阵亡。
The handover came amid the deadliest period on record for Afghan forces. In the six months since March, more soldiers and police officers have died than any period since the start of the war, evidence of the grinding battle that lies ahead. Played out this summer, areas once deemed relatively secure grew problematic, while trouble spots became engulfed in violence.
举行交接仪式的同时，阿富汗军队正面临着有史以来阵亡人数最多的一个时期。今年3月以来的六个月里，士兵和警察的死亡人数超过了战争爆发以来的任何时期，这意味一场鏖战就在眼前。今年夏天，曾经被认为相对安全的地区也出现问题，而一些棘手的地区更是深陷暴力冲突。
Nowhere has that fight been more apparent — or deadly — than in Helmand.
在赫尔曼德省，战斗最为激烈，死亡人数也最多。
Helmand was the first site of the United States’ 2010 troop surge, when thousands of military personnel were dispatched into Afghanistan to beat back a resurgent Taliban. Hundreds of coalition troops lost their lives to ambushes and roadside bombs in the bleak deserts and verdant valleys of Helmand.
美国在2010年的增兵中，最先增派兵力的地点就是赫尔曼德省。当时，数千名军事人员被派往阿富汗，抗击卷土重来的塔利班人员。在赫尔曼德省苍凉的沙漠里和青翠的山谷里，数百名联军士兵因伏击或路边的爆炸而失去了生命。
Districts like Sangin and Marja, home to some of the most violent fighting of the last 13 years, became household names as the United States wound down its war in Iraq and accelerated its involvement in Afghanistan.
随着美国逐渐结束在伊拉克的战斗，并加大对阿富汗的干预，桑金(Sangin)和迈尔杰(Marja)等地区的名字已经家喻户晓。过去13年里最严重的一些战斗是在这些地区发生的。
For the British forces, Helmand was the centerpiece of a multiyear counternarcotics effort that largely failed to stem poppy cultivation. The province, which is home to more than 80 percent of the nation’s opium production, remains the heart of the illicit drug trade. According to a United Nations report, 2013 saw more land used to cultivate the crop than any year since the international community began recording the figure.
对于英军来说，赫尔曼德是一场持续多年的反毒品行动的中心，不过，这场行动基本上未能阻止罂粟的种植。阿富汗生产的鸦片有超过80%是出自该省，这里依然是非法毒品贸易的中心。联合国的一份报告称，2013年的鸦片种植面积，是国际社会开始记录相关数据以来最大的。
Still, officials on Sunday expressed cautious optimism that the Afghans would be ready to handle the fight on their own. While the Taliban tested districts throughout northern Helmand, claiming checkpoints, causing hundreds of casualties and sowing fear into the local population, they failed to claim any district centers from the government.
然而，周日官员们表达了审慎乐观的态度，认为阿富汗应该做好了独自应对这场斗争的准备。塔利班占领哨卡、制造导致数百人伤亡的事件，令当地民众心怀恐惧，尽管这些事件考验着整个赫尔曼德省北部的地区，但他们未能从政府手中夺取任何一个地区的中心城镇。
“Because of the competence, resolve and combined skills of the A.N.S.F., insurgent networks have become ineffective in Helmand Province,” said a statement from the International Security Assistance Force, referring to the Afghan National Security Forces.
“ANSF凭借其能力、决心和综合本领，让叛乱网络在赫尔曼德省无所作为，”国际安全援助部队(International Security Assistance Force)的一份声明说。声明中的ANSF是指阿富汗国家安全部队(Afghan National Security Forces)。
In reality, locals say, the Taliban have never been stronger in the province. In the face of Western assertions, they added, the Taliban have claimed stretches of area surrounding the government centers and have dominated rural areas, as well as the flourishing drug trade.
但事实上，当地人表示，塔利班在该省从未像现在这么强大过。与西方的论断完全相反，当地人说，塔利班在政府中心的周边区域夺取了大量地盘，并已在农村地区占据了主导地位，还把持了日益繁荣的毒品贸易。
Perhaps more worrisome are the trends that developed in northern Helmand over the last five months. Unlike years past, the Taliban massed in large groups to contest government forces, a previously unthinkable dynamic given the presence of coalition air support.
或许更令人担忧的是，赫尔曼德省北部过去五个月形成的趋势。不同于过去那些年，为了对抗政府军，塔利班大规模集结。在以前，考虑到存在联军的空中支援，这种变化是难以想象的。
“Their departure will have an impact on people’s lives and security in Helmand,” said Muhammud Fahim Musazai, the governor of Helmand’s Greskh district. “We will face some problems, like other areas of Afghanistan where the foreigners have left and the Taliban entered afterward.”
“他们的离开，会影响赫尔曼德省民众的生活和安全，”赫尔曼德省格雷斯赫(Greskh)地区的领导人穆罕默德·法希姆·穆萨扎伊(Muhammud Fahim Musazai)说。“我们会面临一些问题，就像外国人走后，塔利班进入的阿富汗其他地区一样。”