The Latest
最新消息：
■ The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average closed up nearly 4 percent, with the Dow gaining more than 600 points.
■ 标准普尔500指数和道琼斯(Dow Jones)工业平均指数收盘时上涨近4%，道指大涨逾600点。
■ William C. Dudley, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, suggested that he thought September might be too soon for an increase in interest rates.
■ 纽约联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of New York)行长威廉·C·达德利(William C. Dudley)表示，他认为9月加息可能为时太早。
■ Shanghai stocks swung between big losses and gains on Wednesday, closing down 1.3 percent despite rate cuts in China.
■ 沪市巨幅震荡，尽管中国已宣布降息，周三仍以1.3%的跌幅报收。
■ Markets in Europe closed with major indexes showing losses of more than 1 percent.
■ 欧洲股市收盘时，各大主要指数跌幅均超过1%。
In Depth
详细情况：
The storm that tore through global stock markets for several days appeared to have abated on Wednesday.
数日来横扫全球股市的风暴本周三似乎有所减弱。
Stocks in the United States surged late in the day, with the Dow Jones industrial average jumping more than 600 points after a late afternoon rally.
美国股市午盘出现飚升，下午晚些时候的一波反弹之后，道琼斯工业平均指数跃升逾600点。
Investors seemed to react to suggestions from a Federal Reserve official that policy makers may not raise interest rates soon.
一位美联储官员暗示政策制定者可能不会立即加息，投资者似乎对此反应积极。
With investors still confused and concerned about China’s economy, the second largest in the world after the United States’, the apparent lull may not last. And a resurgence of selling could heighten fears that volatility in financial markets will damp economic recoveries that have started in Europe and gained steam in the United States.
中国是仅次于美国的全球第二大经济体，投资者对中国经济仍然感到困惑和担忧，因此这种表面上的平静可能不会持续。下一轮抛售可能会加剧人们的不安，担心金融市场动荡会给欧洲方兴未艾的经济复苏和美国增长的趋势造成不利影响。
More often than not, though, stock market slides do little collateral damage.
但通常情况下，股市下跌极少会给经济带来附带损害。
“The stock market has to move a lot — and stay there — to have implications for the U.S. economy,” Mr. Dudley said. “What we’re seeing is not a U.S. problem. This is very different from the financial crisis.”
“只有当股市跌幅巨大，并且一直没有涨势的时候，美国经济才会受到影响，”达德利说。“我们现在看到的问题并非出在美国身上。这与金融危机有很大的不同。”
Officials in Beijing took new steps on Wednesday to bring the stock market to heel, saying they were investigating executives from China’s biggest brokerage firm and had arrested staff members from the country’s stock regulatory agency.
本周三，北京官员采取了新的托市措施，宣布正在对中国最大券商的高管开展调查，并且已经逮捕了中国股票监管机构的一些工作人员。
Around Asia, other markets were mixed on Wednesday. Stocks in Japan rebounded 3.2 percent, ending a six-day losing streak.
亚洲地区的其他股市周三涨跌互现。日本股市反弹3.2%，结束了连续六天的下跌。