WASHINGTON — As President Obama turned to second-term job openings soon after his re-election, the topic one day in the Oval Office was probably the most important economic decision he would make: Who should succeed the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, after 2013?
华盛顿——奥巴马总统再度当选之后迅速把注意力转向他的第二任期内的空缺职位。某天在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)里讨论的一个话题可能是他任内最重要的经济决策：2013年之后谁将成为美联储(Federal Reserve)主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)的继任者？
The president’s preference: His former economic adviser, Lawrence H. Summers.
总统倾向于选择自己的前经济顾问劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)。
Mr. Obama, well aware of Mr. Summer’s love-him-or-hate-him reputation and the trouble he could face winning Senate confirmation, reasoned that it was hardly too soon to think about courting senators, even if a final decision on a nominee was nearly a year off. Shifting from his confidants — Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and the man who soon would succeed him, the White House chief of staff, Jacob J. Lew — the president gave Rob Nabors, then his liaison to Congress, the Summers project.
奥巴马十分了解萨默斯那让人非爱即恨的口碑，也了解自己要赢得参议院的肯定并非易事，所以他解释说，尽管距离最终做出决定还有将近一年之遥，现在就开始争取参议员们的支持并不算早。在先后考虑了他的密友、财政部长蒂莫西·F·盖特纳(Timothy F. Geithner)和即将接替他的白宫幕僚长雅各布·J·卢(Jacob J. Lew)后，他把“萨默斯计划”交给了当时在国会的联络人罗勃·纳伯斯(Rob Nabors)。
“He needs to do some work on the Hill,” Mr. Obama said, according to people with knowledge of the meeting. “You need to work with him, Rob.”
据了解会议情况的人士透露，奥巴马说，“他需要在国会山做些工作。罗勃，你需要和他一起工作。”
Months later, decision time is here, and Mr. Obama still has not settled on Mr. Summers or Janet L. Yellen, the economist he named to be Fed vice chairwoman in 2010.
几个月过去，现在是做决定的时候了，奥巴马依然还没有决定，是提名萨默斯还是经济学家珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)，他在2010年任命后者为美联储副主席。
Yet as that Oval Office exchange shows, the president has long had Mr. Summers in mind — and still has him in mind — to become the world’s most powerful central banker. The relationship is based on an intellectual partnership that dates to the 2008 campaign and was “forged in the crucible of the financial crisis,” as the longtime Obama strategist David Axelrod put it.
然而从椭圆形办公室内的那次讨论看来，总统一直以来都在考虑让萨默斯担任这个全球最具影响力的中央银行行长，现在依然未改初衷。这种关系的基础是二人早在2008年的总统竞选中就结下的一种智识上的伙伴关系，正如奥巴马的长期策略师戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)所述，这种关系“在金融危机的严峻考验下得到了巩固”。
A former administration official, who like most others did not want to be identified speaking of such a sensitive matter, said, “It’s like the attachment you feel for your heart surgeon after he performs a quadruple bypass.”
一名前美国政府官员说，“这就像你的心脏外科医生给你做了四重心脏搭桥手术之后，你感觉自己对他格外依赖一样。”和其他大部分人一样，由于谈及极其敏感的话题，这名官员不想表露自己的身份。
But as that Oval Office meeting last year also suggests, Mr. Obama’s one concern about nominating Mr. Summers has been the potential for a Senate battle — not only from Republicans spoiling for fights, but also from Democrats who view Mr. Summers as having been too friendly toward deregulating big banks when he was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration.
不过，椭圆形办公室去年举行的会议同时还表明，奥巴马对提名萨默斯一直怀有一个顾虑，即这么做可能会在参议院引发一场混战，可能卷入混战的不仅有一心想要进行对抗的共和党人，还有部分民主党人，后者认为，萨默斯在克林顿(Clinton)政府担任财长时，对于支持解除对大银行的监管，表现得过于热心了。
That concern about confirmation has been affirmed in recent weeks as bloggers and groups on the left have mobilized, either to oppose Mr. Summers outright or to urge Mr. Obama to pick Ms. Yellen to be the first female Fed chairman. Mr. Summers declined to comment for this article.
最近几周，左派的博客作者和团体都动员起来了，他们要么明确表示反对萨默斯，要么呼吁奥巴马选择耶伦作为美联储的第一位女主席，这进一步证实了外界对此事的担忧。萨默斯拒绝为本文置评。
The president has already interviewed Mr. Summers and Ms. Yellen for the job, as well as Donald L. Kohn, a former Fed vice chairman, aides say. But administration insiders say they believe Mr. Obama remains inclined to nominate the man who, as his chief economic adviser through 2009 and 2010, helped him through the worst global financial crisis since the Depression.
总统的助理说，总统已为这份工作和萨默斯、耶伦，以及美联储前副主席唐纳德·L·科恩(Donald L. Kohn)进行了面谈。不过，政府内部人士表示，他们相信奥巴马依然倾向于提名曾在2009年至2010年之间担任自己的首席经济顾问的萨默斯，毕竟这个人辅佐总统渡过了自大萧条(Depression)以来最为严重的全球经济危机。
Mr. Summers’s edge, the insiders say, reflects that relationship and not any arguments against Ms. Yellen, whom Mr. Obama does not know well. And they do not rule out another candidate, though no other names are known to be in the mix.
内部人士说，萨默斯的优势反映了他和总统之间的这层关系，这不说明奥巴马对耶伦有任何意见，对于后者，奥巴马并不十分了解。他们说不排除还有其他候选人的可能性，但目前还没有看到其他的名字进入视线。
An announcement had been possible next week, aides said, until plans for the debate in Congress over military intervention in Syria scrambled the timing. While Mr. Bernanke’s four-year term — his second — does not end until Jan. 31, a decision on his successor is needed soon because Senate confirmation hearings and votes take time.
助手称原本可能会在下周发布一个声明，但由于打算将叙利亚军事干预一事提交国会讨论，日程安排被打乱了。伯南克的四年任期——他的第二个任期——要到明年1月31日才结束，但继任者人选需要尽快决定，因为参议院的审核听证和投票是需要时间的。
Neither Mr. Obama nor Congress can afford much time or controversy. In addition to Syria, they will be battling through the fall over two other must-act matters: financing the government by the Oct. 1 start of the fiscal year to avoid a shutdown, and increasing the nation’s borrowing limit by mid-October to maintain the nation’s creditworthiness and avert an economic crisis.
奥巴马和国会都没有太多时间，也无法负担更多争议。除了叙利亚，这个秋天他们还要在两件必须采取行动的事情上展开角力：在10月1日下一财年开始前就政府开支达成协议，以避免政府停摆；在10月中旬之前提高国家借贷上限，以维护国家的信用度，避免发生经济危机。
Also, Fed insiders, markets and America’s allies are eager to know who will be heading the central bank in the next four years, particularly as it weighs winding down the expansionary monetary policy that Mr. Bernanke engineered to sustain the economic recovery.
此外，由于美联储正在考虑逐步弱化伯南克为支持经济复苏而设计的扩张性货币政策，其内部人士、市场和美国的盟友都急切地想知道接下来的四年会由谁来执掌央行。
The criticism of Mr. Summers is familiar in Washington. His widely acknowledged intellect is offset by imperiousness that makes him hard to work with, some of his opponents say. At the Clinton Treasury, others say, he contributed to the later financial crisis both by supporting repeal of a Depression-era law regulating banks, and by opposing regulation of financial products called derivatives. Women’s groups recall that as Harvard president he once made comments widely criticized as sexist.
针对萨默斯的批评是华盛顿所熟知的。他的才智广受认可，但他的反对者说，专横的个性令人很难与他共事。还有人说，在任克林顿政府财政部长时，他支持废除一部大萧条时期立下的银行监管法，而且不同意对被称为衍生工具的金融产品实施监管，这些都对日后发生的金融危机起了推波助澜的作用。女性权益团体则想起，他在担任哈佛校长期间发表的一些言论被广泛认为是存在性别歧视的。
But Mr. Obama has heard it all before, advisers say, even before he brought Mr. Summers into his 2008 campaign and then the White House. The two men are hardly golf buddies. But having worked side by side daily in stressful times, aides say, the president knows Mr. Summers’s plusses and minuses, and he decided — like most of his aides, male and female — the balance on Mr. Summers was positive.
但顾问们说，这些奥巴马都知道，甚至在他把萨默斯拉进2008年总统竞选以及之后的白宫之前就已经听说了。两人谈不上是密友，但在压力之下并肩工作了一段时间后，助手们说总统对萨默斯的长处与短处是有底的，和他的大多数助手——无论男女——一样，他认为萨默斯的天平是向正面倾斜的。
“There is nothing that people on the outside are saying about Larry that wasn’t known, and he’s been our colleague besides,” said one longtime official. “Larry used to get on my freaking nerves. I would kill for Larry now. Larry is many things — he is brash, he is crass, he does not tolerate fools well, and he has to be the smartest person in the room.”
“外界说拉里的那些话，都没什么新鲜的，而且他是我们的同事，”一位资深官员说。“他以前经常惹得我火冒三丈。但现在我全力支持拉里。这人怎么说呢——他自大，他极端，他对笨蛋不够包容，一定要做房间里最聪明的那个人不可。”
But, the official added, “Larry earned my friendship and respect while he was here. We were sort of in a foxhole together, and he was a stand-up dude.”
但这位官员说，“在这里工作期间，拉里赢得了我的友谊和尊重。我们有点像挤在一个战壕里的战友，他是个坚定的家伙。”
Mr. Obama signaled his own willingness to confront the critics when he came to Mr. Summers’s defense last month in private meetings with House and Senate Democrats. People at the meeting, said the president called the criticism was unfair and credited Mr. Summers with helping to restore the economy.
上月在和参众两院民主党人的私人会谈中，奥巴马力挺萨默斯，表明他是愿意直面批评的。与会者表示，总统称这些批评有失公允，并表示萨默斯在经济复苏中是有功的。
Past and current administration officials say that Mr. Summers has been the Fed candidate-in-waiting arguably since Mr. Obama was first elected, notwithstanding that the president renominated Mr. Bernanke in 2009.
有来自往届和当前政府的官员说，尽管2009年总统再次提名伯南克，但萨默斯可以说在奥巴马第一次当选总统的时候就已经是执掌联储的人选了。