WASHINGTON — The Federal Reserve said on Wednesday that it would gradually end its bond-buying program during 2014, a modest first step toward unwinding the central bank’s broader stimulus campaign as its officials gain confidence that the economy is growing steadily.
华盛顿——随着美联储(Federal Reserve)官员对经济稳步增长的信心有所增强，该机构在周三表示，将在2014年逐步结束债券购买计划，迈出了撤除央行大规模刺激计划的第一小步。
The Fed plans to cut its monthly purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed securities from $85 billion in December to nothing by the end of next year in a series of small steps, starting with a reduction to $75 billion in January, the central bank announced after a two-day meeting of its policy-making committee.
美联储在其政策制定委员会结束为期两天的会议后宣布，该央行计划通过一系列小规模举措，在明年年底前将每月的国债及抵押债券购买额从今年12月的850亿美元（约合5161亿元人民币）降至零，这些举措自明年1月开始，该月购买额将减至750亿美元。
At the same time, the Fed sought to offset concerns that it was once again pulling back too soon by strengthening its plans to hold short-term interest rates near zero, which officials regard as a more powerful means of stimulating growth. Both policies aim to hold down borrowing costs and revive risk-taking.
与此同时，美联储也在努力消除相关担忧，即美联储通过强化将短期利率维持在接近零的水平的计划，再次过早地削减刺激措施。官员们称，该计划是更加有效的刺激增长的方式。两项政策都旨在压低借贷成本，促进承担风险的活动。
The Fed’s shift in policy, in effect, means it plans to do less now and more later. That is the result of a compromise that has been months in the making between a group of officials convinced that the economy needs more help, and a range of internal critics who regarded the bond-buying campaign as ineffective or dangerous.
实际上，美联储的政策转变意味着该机构计划现在采取较少行动，以后再做更多。这一转变的原因是经过数月时间达成的一项妥协，达成妥协的一方是确信美国经济需要更多帮助的官员，另一方是认为债券购买计划既无效又危险的内部批评人士。
The Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, insisted that the net effect was not a withdrawal of support for the economy. 
美联储主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)坚称，政策转变的净效果绝不是取消对经济发展的支持。
“We are not doing less,” he said at a news conference on Wednesday. “I think we have been aggressive to try to keep the economy growing, and we are seeing progress in the labor market. I would dispute the idea that we are not providing a lot of accommodation to the economy.”
“我们没有减少努力，”他在周三召开的新闻发布会上表示。“我觉得我们一直大力维持经济增长，而我们也在劳工市场看到了进展。有人认为我们没有为经济提供很多帮助，我不同意这个看法。”
Investors appeared to agree with Mr. Bernanke, defying predictions that stock prices would retreat along with the Fed’s pullback. Major stock indexes spiked when the Fed’s statement was released at 2 p.m., and the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 1.7 percent by the end of the trading day. Importantly, interest rates on benchmark bonds — the rates the Fed is trying to influence — ended the day roughly where they started.
投资者似乎也赞同伯南克的意见，并未响应股价会随着美联储撤回资金而出现下跌的预测。美联储的声明于下午2点公布之时，主要股指都急剧升高，标准普尔500指数(Standard & Poor's 500-stock index)在交易日结束时上升了1.7%。重要的是，基准债券的利率——美联储希望影响的就是这个利率——在交易日结束时几乎与开盘时相同。
One reason for investor enthusiasm, said Michael Hanson, senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, is the stimulus will be withdrawn very gradually.
美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)的高级经济学家迈克尔·汉森(Michael Hanson)说，投资者之所以充满热情，原因之一是刺激计划的撤回将会以缓慢的速度逐步实施。
The markets now have a clear — though tentative — schedule for the course of Fed policy over the next two years, including an end to asset purchases by late next year and a signal from Mr. Bernanke that the first increase in short-term interest rates is not likely to come until near the end of 2015.
对于未来两年的美联储政策，市场目前有一个清晰——虽然不是很有把握——的概念，其中就包括美联储会在明年年末结束资产购买，而伯南克也曾表示，到2015年年末以前，短期利率不太可能升高。
That is particularly striking because the plan, set in the final months of Mr. Bernanke’s tenure, will now define the first two years of the term of his successor, Janet Yellen, whom the Senate is expected to confirm this week. Mr. Bernanke said on Wednesday that Ms. Yellen “fully supports what we did today.”
情况之所以格外令人吃惊，是因为在伯南克任期最后数月出台的这项计划将决定他的继任者珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)任期头两年的工作。参议院将于本周确认对她的提名。伯南克周三表示，耶伦“完全支持我们今天的举措”。
The Fed is struggling to calibrate its stimulus campaign in an environment of steady but mediocre growth. The unemployment rate has declined over the last year, reaching 7 percent in November. But that is still a high rate by historical standards, and other measures of the labor market look even worse. Wages are rising slowly, and the share of adults with jobs has not climbed since the recession.
面对经济增长平稳却缓慢的环境，美联储正在艰难地调整自己的刺激计划。过去一年中，失业率持续下跌，11月降至7%。但是，以历史标准来看，这个比率仍然很高，劳动力市场的其他指标则显得更加不妙。工资增长缓慢，而且自经济衰退以来，在职成年人的比例一直未见升高。
A variety of indicators suggest the American economy may now be growing more quickly than analysts predicted, and Fed officials anticipate somewhat faster growth in the coming year. But the persistence of low inflation indicates the economy is operating well below its capacity.
许多指标都表明，美国经济现在的增长速度或许比分析人士预计的要快，美联储官员也预计，美国来年的经济增长还会更加迅速。但是，持续的低通胀率表明，美国经济的表现远低于其应有的能力。
“The committee is determined to avoid inflation that is too low, as well as inflation that is too high,” Mr. Bernanke said at the news conference.
伯南克在新闻发布会上说，“委员会决意避免通胀率太低或太高的情况。”