United Airlines apologized on Tuesday and said it would review its policies after videos showed a passenger being forcibly removed from a full plane to make room for its own employees, setting off public outrage.
联合航空(United Airlines)将一位乘客强行从满员的飞机上拖离，为自家员工腾出座位的视频引起了公愤。本周二，该公司做出道歉，表示会检讨公司的相关政策。
Oscar Munoz, the company’s chief executive, said in a statement that United would take “full responsibility” for the situation and that “no one should ever be mistreated this way.”
联合航空首席执行官奥斯卡·穆尼奥斯(Oscar Munoz)在一份声明中表示，该公司将对这一事件“负起全责”，“没有人应该受到这种虐待”。
He committed to making changes to ensure that the situation would not repeat itself, adding that United would conduct “a thorough review of crew movement, our policies for incentivizing volunteers in these situations, how we handle oversold situations and an examination of how we partner with airport authorities and local law enforcement.”
他承诺作出改变，确保这种情况不会再次出现，并表示联合航空将“对此种情况下机组人员的行动、公司对志愿者的物质鼓励政策进行彻底检讨，并调查我们处理超售情况以及与机场方面和地方执法部门的合作状况”。
The company said it will communicate the results of its review by the end of the month.
该公司表示，将在月底之前通报审查结果。
The videos cast a sharp focus on airline overbooking, as travelers, already dealing with the myriad indignities of flying, realized they could be physically ejected from a seat they had booked and paid for in advance.
这些视频使得航空公司的座位超售问题成为了焦点，旅客在已经遭遇过乘坐飞机时的无数不快之后，发现他们可能坐不到已经预订和付了钱的座位。
Airlines can bump passengers from flights for a number of reasons, including favoring passengers who paid a higher fare or customers who have frequent-flier status. The reasons that four passengers in particular were bumped on the United flight on Sunday remain unclear. The airline said it needed seats to get its own employees to Louisville, Ky.
航空公司有很多理由让乘客离开飞机，包括优先接待支付了较高票价的乘客或常旅客。联合航空周日选择那四名乘客的原因尚不清楚。该公司表示，它需要座位让自己的员工前往肯塔基州路易斯维尔市。
Videos of the episode, in which one passenger was dragged along the floor on an airplane, spread quickly online. The Transportation Department is investigating whether the airline complied with federal rules on overbooking. Suddenly, all around the country, airline passengers have begun to realize that, even if they are sitting in a seat, holding a ticket and quietly scanning the in-flight magazine for movie choices, they can still get kicked off. Fairly randomly, it seems.
一名乘客被人在地上拖走的视频迅速在网上传播开来。运输部(Transportation Department)正在调查联合航空的做法是否符合联邦超售规定。突然间，全国各地的飞机乘客也开始意识到，即使已经坐在座位上，手握机票，静静地观看机上杂志选择要看的电影，也仍然有可能被踢出飞机。而且似乎是相当随机地被踢出去。
Airlines often overbook flights, but it is rare to be denied boarding. Among airlines based in the United States, about 62 per one million passengers were denied boarding last year, according to the Department of Transportation. United was in the middle of the pack, ranked No. 5, with 3,765 passengers involuntarily denied boarding out of more than 86 million who were allowed on an airplane, according to the Transportation Department. (An additional 62,895 did not board, but on a voluntary basis.)
航空公司往往会超售，但拒绝登机的情况很少见。根据运输部的数据显示，去年在美国的航空公司中，每100万人约有62人被拒绝登机。运输部门统计的数据还显示，联合航空处在中等水平，排在第五位，在8600多万名获许登机的乘客中，有3765名乘客非自愿地遭到拒绝登机（另外62895人没有登机，但是是出于自愿的）。
Experts say airlines routinely study data to see which flights are most likely to have no-shows. Then they sell more tickets than seats on the plane, expecting several people not to show up, a strategy that ensures a full plane and maximizes profit. When there are not enough no-shows, airlines will begin offering bribes — rewards usually in the form of travel vouchers, gift cards or even cash — in the hopes that flexible customers will take the reward and reschedule their flight.
专家表示，航空公司会定期研究数据，看看哪些航班最有可能出现乘客不来搭乘的情况。然后预测会有几个乘客不出现并超售机票，这个策略是为了尽量让飞机满员飞行，将利润最大化。当前来的乘客人数超过座位数时，航空公司就会开始提供各种好处——通常是用旅行优惠券、礼品卡甚至现金的形式提供奖励——希望时间灵活的乘客愿意接受这种奖励，改变自己的行程。
For the truly flexible traveler, the system can be manipulated to their advantage, travel experts say.
旅行专家说，时间真正灵活的旅行者可以利用这种机制获得实惠。
“There are people who fly around the world on credits they got from giving up their airline seats,” said Seth Kaplan, managing partner at Airline Weekly, an industry publication.
业界出版物《航空周刊》(Airline Weekly)的执行合伙人塞思·卡普兰(Seth Kaplan)表示：“有人利用这种放弃座位换来的积分环游世界。”
Typically, airlines began bargaining with passengers at the gate, offering travel vouchers of $400 to $600, at first. In the United States, compensation maxes out at $1,350, but experts say the reward offers rarely go that high.
通常来说，航空公司会在登机口跟乘客开始协商，提供价值400至600美元的旅行优惠券。在美国，补偿最高可以达到1350美元，但专家说，实际上很少会那么高。
If the airline cannot get enough volunteers, however, it will choose passengers on its own.
然而，如果自愿放弃座位的乘客人数不够，航空公司便会自行选择乘客。
Each airline sets its own system for deciding whom to bump. Some choose the passengers who paid the lowest fares, while some choose the last passengers to check in, according to the Department of Transportation.
对于决定让谁下飞机，各航空公司都有自己的制度。据运输部称，一些航司选择购买最便宜机票的乘客，也有一些选择最后办理登记手续的乘客。
The United passenger removed on Sunday was already in his seat and had refused several offers by the airline to be compensated to reschedule the flight.
周日被强行带走的那名联合航空公司乘客已经坐在了自己的座位上，并拒绝了航空公司多次提出的改变行程并提供补偿的安排。
In a letter to United employees on Tuesday morning — several hours before he sent the contrite statement — Mr. Munoz said that United needed the seats for employees who had to get to Louisville, the destination of the flight. When the airline could not get the necessary number of passengers voluntarily, it selected four to be bumped.
周二上午，穆尼奥斯在写给联合航空公司员工的一封信中称，联合航空公司需要为必须前往该航班的目的地路易斯维尔的员工安排座位；几小时后，他发表声明，表示道歉。当自愿让出座位的乘客未达到所需人数时，该航司选出了四名必须离开飞机的乘客。
A spokeswoman for United said that technically, the flight to Louisville was not overbooked, but that the company followed the procedure for such situations after four crew members arrived needing seats once passengers had boarded. She would not specify why the passenger in the video was chosen.
联合航空的一名发言人称，严格来说，飞往路易斯维尔的该航班没有超售，但在乘客登机后，四名机组成员抵达，需要座位，公司遵循了针对这种情况的程序。她不愿具体说明视频中该名乘客被选中的原因。
Three passengers disembarked. But the fourth passenger did not give up his seat, and he was forcibly removed, dragged down the airplane aisle, his glasses askew, face bloodied, by several security officers. He has not been identified. One of the security officers has been placed on leave, according to the authorities.
三名乘客下了飞机。但第四名乘客没有放弃自己的座位。于是，他被强行带离，被几名安保人员从飞机过道上拖了出去，他的眼镜歪到了一边，脸上还有血迹。他的身份没有被公开。据当局称，其中一名安保人员已被迫休假。
The episode stirred anger as the videos spread online, and many travelers responded with heavy criticism of United’s tactics. It also became the focus of Chinese media attention and was the most popular topic on Weibo, China’s equivalent of Twitter, with many users accusing United of racism by selecting the man, who appeared to be Asian.
随着视频在网上流传，此事引发了愤怒，很多乘客严厉指责联合航空的做法。这件事也成了中国媒体关注的焦点，成为新浪微博——相当于中国的Twitter——的热门话题。很多微博用户指责联合航空选择这名看上去是亚洲人的男子是种族歧视。
In his letter, Mr. Munoz said that employees “followed established procedures for dealing with situations like this” and that he “emphatically” stood behind them.
在那封邮件中，穆尼奥斯说员工“遵照了处理这类情况的既定程序”，并称他“力挺”他们。
“I want to commend you for continuing to go above and beyond to ensure we fly right,” he wrote.
“我想称赞你们为了确保飞行的妥当而持续做出的卓越表现，”他写道。
“I do, however, believe there are lessons we can learn from this experience, and we are taking a close look at the circumstances surrounding this incident,” he continued. “Treating our customers and each other with respect and dignity is at the core of who we are, and we must always remember this no matter how challenging the situation.”
“然而，我的确认为，我们应从这次事件中吸取教训，并且我们正在密切关注围绕此事的情况，”他接着说。“给予顾客和彼此尊重和尊严是我们身份的核心，无论情况多么艰难，我们都必须永远记住这一点。”