The Federal Reserve held course on Wednesday, announcing no changes after the latest meeting of its policy-making committee and offering no indication how soon it might start to reduce the volume of its monthly bond purchases.
周三，在政策制定委员会最近一次会议之后，美联储(Federal Reserve)坚持原有路线，宣布不会进行政策变更，也没有暗示美联储何时可能开始缩减每月的债券购买量。
The Fed acknowledged the weak pace of growth during the first half of the year, describing the rate as “modest” rather than “moderate,” but maintained its forecast that “economic growth will pick up from its recent pace,” according to a statement published after the committee’s two-day meeting.
根据该委员会在结束两天会议之后发布的声明，美联储承认，今年上半年经济增长疲软，经济只是“略有”增长，而不是“适度”增长，但美联储仍坚持原来的预测，即“经济增长将会加速，超过近期的发展速度”。
The Fed also noted the sluggish pace of inflation, which has dropped to the lowest pace on record, but said that it continued to expect a rebound.
美联储还指出了通胀已放缓至历史最低速度的事实，同时表示，通胀有望出现回升。
As usual, the Fed maintained its flexibility, noting that it was ready to increase or decrease its stimulus campaign as warranted by economic conditions.
像往常一样，美联储仍然保持了自己的灵活性，称该机构已经做好准备，可以根据经济形势增加或减少刺激举措。
The decision was supported by 11 of the 12 members of the Federal Open Market Committee. The sole dissenter was Esther L. George, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, who has dissented at each meeting this year, citing the risks of financial destabilization and higher inflation.
联邦公开市场委员会(Federal Open Market Committee)12名成员中有11名成员支持该决定。唯一的反对者是堪萨斯城联邦储备银行(Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City)行长埃斯特·L·乔治(Esther L. George)，他提出的理由是金融不稳定及较高通胀水平带来的风险。今年，乔治每次参加会议时都持反对意见。
The committee had little time to digest the latest economic data. The government announced earlier Wednesday that the economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter, better than economists had expected but below the pace that Fed officials regard as necessary to create enough jobs to bring down the unemployment rate. The Fed has predicted faster growth in the second half of the year.
该委员会没有时间研究最新的经济数据。政府在周三早些时候宣布，经济在第二季度中达到了1.7%的年化增长率，好于经济学家的预期，但没有达到美联储官员认为能创造降低失业率所需就业机会的水平。美联储预计，今年下半年，经济将会加速增长。
The Fed’s chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, surprised investors after the committee’s last meeting in June by announcing that the central bank expected to reduce the volume of its monthly asset purchases later this year, and to end the purchases by the middle of next year, provided that economic growth met the Fed’s expectations. The central bank has increased its holdings of mortgage-backed securities and Treasury securities by $85 billion a month since December.
在该委员会于6月份召开前一次会议后，美联储主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)宣布，如果经济增长情况达到了美联储的预期，美联储将在今年晚些时候减少每月的资产购买量，并将于明年中期结束购买，此番言论让投资者倍感震惊。自去年12月以来，美联储已经增加了抵押担保证券及国债的持有量，每月购买的金额达到850亿美元（约合5200亿元人民币）。
Interest rates rose in response, undermining the purpose of the bond-buying program, but Fed officials have not backed away from that timeline. Mr. Bernanke and others have said that if the economy needs more help, they would rather lean on other tools, like the policy of holding short-term interest rates near zero.
利率因伯南克的讲话而提高，破坏了债券购买计划的目的，但美联储官员并没有就上述时间安排做出让步。伯南克和其他人都表示，倘若经济需要更多帮助，他们更愿意依赖其他工具，比如把短期利率保持在接近于零的政策。
The Fed has said that it intends to maintain that policy at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent and likely for some time thereafter as long as inflation remains under control. The rate was 7.6 percent in June.
美联储表示，至少是在失业率仍高于6.5%的时候，它打算保持这项政策，而且很可能在失业率降到6.5%以下之后的一段时间内保持这项政策，前提是通货膨胀处于控制之中。6月份的失业率为7.6%。
Mr. Bernanke described this as “a change in the mix of tools” in testimony before the House Financial Services Committee earlier this month.
7月早些时候，伯南克在众议院金融服务委员会(House Financial Services Committee)作证发言，称这项政策是“工具组合的一个调整”。
The shift in strategy appears to reflect a reassessment of the potential costs of asset purchases. A number of Fed officials have expressed concern that the bond-buying could destabilize markets, for example by reducing the supply of low-risk assets, thus distorting prices or encouraging speculation. Other economists, including Lawrence H. Summers, a leading candidate to succeed Mr. Bernanke at the Fed, have expressed similar concerns about the purchases.
战略的转变似乎表明，有关方面重新评估了资产收购的潜在代价。一些美联储官员已经对购买债券可能会使市场陷入动荡表示了担心，举例来说，购买债券或许会减少低风险资产的供应，从而扭曲价格或滋长投机。包括劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)在内的其他一些经济学家也对购买债券的做法表达了相似的担忧。萨默斯是接替伯南克担任美联储主席的热门人选。
The Fed has also faced persistent questions about the benefits of the purchases. Mr. Bernanke and his allies say the bond-buying, by reducing borrowing costs, has contributed to a recent rise in home and auto purchases. Other economists, however, regard these effects as minor at best.
此外，美联储还一直面临着人们对购买债券是否能带来好处的疑问。伯南克及其盟友都说，购买债券政策削减了借贷成本，对近期住宅和汽车销售量的增加起了作用。其他一些经济学家却认为，如果有作用的话，这种作用也很小。
Fed officials and supportive economists also have suggested that the central bank’s asset purchases are valuable in convincing investors that the central bank is maintaining its long-term commitment to suppressing borrowing costs. As long as the Fed is buying bonds, it is not about to start raising rates.
美联储官员和支持他们的经济学家还表示，央行购买资产的做法可以使投资者相信，央行仍在履行自己压低借贷成本的长期承诺。只要美联储还在购买债券，央行就不会开始提高利率。