WASHINGTON — The Treasury Department officially declined on Friday to label China a currency manipulator, breaking one of President Trump’s most prominent campaign promises.
华盛顿——财政部上周五正式拒绝把中国列为货币操纵国，特朗普总统在竞选活动中最重要的承诺之一未能兑现。
In its exchange rate report to Congress, the Treasury said that in spite of China’s large trade surplus with the United States, it was not acting improperly to depress the value of its currency.
财政部在向国会提交的汇率报告中表示，尽管中国与美国的贸易顺差很大，但中国并没有不正当地压低币值。
Mr. Trump signaled this week in an interview that he was reversing his position, and he has taken a less confrontational stance toward China since meeting with President Xi Jinping this month.
特朗普在上周接受采访时表示，自从本月与习近平主席会晤以来，他正在转变自己的立场，减弱对中国的对抗立场。
The report did take a more pointed tone toward China than in previous years, calling on Beijing to act to reduce trade imbalances and open its markets to American goods and services. It also said that the United States remained poised to act if China did start to meddle with its currency, as it did in the not-too-distant past.
这份报告对中国的态度也确实比前几年更加尖锐，它呼吁北京采取行动，减少贸易不平衡，对美国的商品和服务开放市场。它还表示，如果中国开始干预货币，美国仍然会采取行动，就像并非久远的过去一样。
“China will need to demonstrate that its lack of intervention to resist appreciation over the last three years represents a durable policy shift,” the report said.
报告说：“中国需要表明，它在过去三年中没有对升值进行干预，是一个持续性的政策转变。”
A currency manipulator designation is largely symbolic and starts negotiations between the United States and any country determined to be manipulating its exchange rate.
被列为货币操纵国在很大程度上是象征性的，美国将会因此开启和任何决心操纵汇率的国家之间的谈判。
Mr. Trump’s about-face was notable because of how forceful he was in his insistence as recently as this month that China was a currency manipulator.
特朗普改弦更张值得注意，因为他就在本月还坚称中国是货币操纵国。
Mr. Trump told The Financial Times that the Chinese were “world champions” at currency manipulation. He said previous American presidents “haven’t had a clue” about how to deal with it.
特朗普曾对《金融时报》(The Financial Times)说，中国人是操纵货币的“世界冠军”。他说，以前的美国总统对于如何处理此事“毫无头绪”。
Mr. Trump also made the issue a staple of his campaign speeches. In accepting the Republican nomination last summer, Mr. Trump called China the “greatest currency manipulators ever!”
特朗普也把这个问题作为竞选演讲的基本内容之一。特朗普在去年夏天接受共和党提名时说，中国是“最大的货币操纵国”。
Upon announcing his candidacy in 2015, Mr. Trump said that China’s currency practices were making it impossible for American companies to compete and declared, “They’re killing us.”
2015年特朗普宣布参加竞选的时候，他说中国操纵货币的做法让美国公司无法竞争，并声称“他们正在扼杀我们”。
In the Trump campaign’s “contract” with American voters he promised, “I will direct the Secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator” in the first 100 days of his presidency.
特朗普竞选时与美国选民签订的“合同”中，他承诺，在他担任总统职位的头100天里，“我要指示财政部长把中国列为货币操纵国”。
The Treasury report was being awaited with great interest until Wednesday, when Mr. Trump offered a preview in an interview with The Wall Street Journal. He said he had changed his mind on China.
特朗普周三接受《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)的采访放出口风之前，很多人都在饶有兴趣地等待财政部的报告。他说自己改变了对中国的想法。
“They’re not currency manipulators,” he said.
“他们不是货币操纵国，”他说。