In one sad sense there was nothing new, or even very unusual, about the televised killing of two journalists in Virginia Wednesday morning.
从一种让人伤感的角度看，周三上午弗吉尼亚州两名记者在电视直播时被枪杀一事并不新鲜，甚至没什么不寻常。
Death on TV has occurred with frightening regularity ever since the advent of the medium; like Jack Ruby’s shooting of Lee Harvey Oswald, the assassin of President John F. Kennedy in 1963, and the Sept. 11, 2001, fall of the World Trade Center. The prospect of death appearing suddenly on our screens is as common as it is ghoulish.
自从电视这一媒体诞生以来，死亡事件的场景就以骇人的频率不断出现；比如杰克·鲁比(Jack Ruby)枪杀1963年刺杀约翰·F·肯尼迪总统的凶手李·哈维·奥斯瓦尔德(Lee Harvey Oswald)，还有2001年9月11日世贸中心的坍塌。死亡场景在我们的屏幕上突然出现，常见程度与其恐怖程度不相上下。
Yet in another way, the video of the Virginia shootings posted by Bryce Williams, whose real name is Vester Lee Flanagan and who is thought to be the gunman who killed two of his former co-workers at the television station WDBJ, is a frightful twist in an age of online sharing and ubiquitous video documentation.
但是从另一个层面讲，布赖斯·威廉姆斯(Bryce Williams)发布的弗吉尼亚枪杀视频，是这个网络分享和视频记录泛滥时代的一种可怕的扭曲行为。威廉姆斯的真名是韦斯特·李·弗拉纳根(Vester Lee Flanagan)，被认为是杀害视频中WDBJ电视台两名记者的凶手，也是他们的前同事。
The killings appear to have been skillfully engineered for maximum distribution, and to sow maximum dread, over Twitter, Facebook and mobile phones. The video Mr. Flanagan shows is an up-close, first-person execution. It was posted only after his social media accounts had become widely known, while the police were in pursuit of the killer. And unlike previous televised deaths, these were not merely broadcast, but widely and virally distributed, playing out with the complicity of thousands, perhaps millions, of social networking users who could not help but watch and share.
这场谋杀似乎经过精心设计，旨在达到最大传播效力，并在Twitter、Facebook和手机上最大程度地散布恐惧感。弗拉纳根展示的视频是近距离第一视角处决。他在自己的社交媒体账号广为人知之后才发布了视频，而且是警方正在追捕凶手的时候。和以前在电视上播出的死亡事件不同，这次的视频不只是播出了，而且进行了大范围的病毒性传播，而成千上万忍不住观看和转发的社交媒体用户成为同谋。
The horror was the dawning realization, as the video spread across the networks, that the killer had anticipated the moves — that he had been counting on the mechanics of these services and on our inability to resist passing on what he had posted. For many, that realization came too late. On these services, the killer knew, you often hit retweet, like or share before you realize just quite what you have done.
随着视频在网络上的传播，人们开始意识到凶手之前已经预计到这一切会发生。这才是恐怖的地方。凶手一直指望着这些社交媒体机制会发挥作用，指望我们会无法抗拒传播他发布的视频。对很多人来说，这样的领悟来得太晚。凶手还知道，在社交媒体上，人们往往会在意识不到自己究竟在做什么的情况下，就转发、点赞或分享。
Twitter and Facebook moved quickly to suspend the accounts of Mr. Flanagan. But not quickly enough. By the time his social presence had come down, his videos had been shared widely by journalists and ordinary users, jumping beyond the Internet onto morning TV broadcasts, and downloaded and reposted across the Internet — where, with some rudimentary searching, they will most likely remain accessible indefinitely.
Twitter和Facebook很快封掉了弗拉纳根的账号。但速度还是不够快。在他的社交媒体活动停止之前，这些视频已经被社交媒体上的新闻工作者和普通用户广泛传播，并且越出这一范围，在电视台早间新闻进行报道，被人们在网络上四处下载和重新上传。只要具备一些基础的搜索能力，就极有可能可以永远观看到这些视频。
Also found after the killings was a demo reel posted to YouTube, showing Mr. Flanagan’s various appearances as a TV anchor and reporter. It is unsurprising, given his familiarity with the subject, that he appeared well versed with what has become the media ritual of killing.
枪击事件发生后，YouTube上还出现了一则剪辑视频，其中有弗拉纳根作为电视节目主持人和记者出现的各种镜头。考虑到他对这一领域的熟悉，他对媒体报道死亡事件的惯例表现出如此的了如指掌也并不让人吃惊。
He seems to have known, for instance, that in a nation in which tens of thousands of people are killed by firearms every year, the shooting of two people would not become international news if it was not filmed: as is commonly said online, “Pics, or it didn’t happen.” So he waited until WDBJ’s cameras were broadcasting live before he acted.
比如，他似乎已经知道，在这个每年有数万人死于枪械的国家，如果不对过程进行拍摄，枪杀两个人不会成为国际新闻。就像网络上通常说的，“无图无真相。”所以，他会等到WDBJ的镜头正在现场直播时，才采取行动。
But as a newshound, he seems also to have understood the morbid irresistibility of the citizen-produced video — the shaky, point-of-view, ground level, continuously looped recording of any incident that has become a commonplace spectacle on television news. Thus, he made sure to produce his own video as well. In the practice of our mobile age, he held his camera vertically, in one hand, allowing him to hold his gun in the other.
不过，作为一名新闻工作者，弗拉纳根似乎也很明白，网民自制视频具有病态的不可抗拒性——这种反复播放的以贴近地平面的主观视角拍摄的摇晃镜头，已经成为电视新闻中的常见片段。所以，他还费时费力地自己拍摄视频。就像手机时代的典型做法，他一只手拿着手机用肖像模式拍摄，这样就可以空出另外一只手持枪。
He might have anticipated, too, that in any widely covered shooting, reporters now rush to do an Internet search on the killer as soon as a name leaks out. Mr. Flanagan was ready, his social accounts prepared with a professional picture and childhood photos. Then, as soon as his name began to be mentioned online, he appeared to have logged in to Twitter and Facebook to begin posting the outlines of a defense and an explanation, as well as his own clip of the killings.
他可能也预料到，在任何被广泛报道的枪击事件中，一旦有嫌疑人名字泄露出来，记者们都会立刻去网上搜索凶手的信息。弗拉纳根为此做好了准备，他早已在社交媒体账户上准备好一张自己的职业照和一些童年时期的照片。然后，他的名字刚在网上开始被人提起，他似乎就登陆了Twitter和Facebook账号，开始发布为自己辩护和解释的要点，还有他拍摄的枪击视频。
There was initially some doubt on Twitter about the authenticity of the killer’s account — justified skepticism, because the quickly pulled-together profile of a shooter has also become a hallmark of the ritual in which these incidents are covered. But then the killer’s account, @bryce_williams7, began updating live, erasing all doubt.
一开始，人们对Twitter上出现的凶手账户的真实性有所怀疑。这种质疑合乎情理，因为短时间内拼凑起凶手形象已经成为这些事件报道惯例的一个特点。但之后，凶手的账号@bryce_williams7开始实时更新，消除了所有疑问。
Over the course of 20 minutes on Twitter, the shooter updated his status a half-dozen times, culminating in a post showing the video of the killings. He quickly amassed a following of thousands, the sort of rapturous social media welcoming that is usually reserved for pop stars and heads of state.
在Twitter发布信息的20分钟里，凶手五六次更新帖子，最后一条是他发布枪击视频。他的账号很快吸引了成千上万人关注。这种狂热的社交媒体关注度，通常只有明星和国家首脑才会享有。
There was uncertainty in the sharing. Users expressed reservations as they passed on the gunman’s profile and his tweets. People were calling on Twitter and Facebook to act quickly to pull down his accounts. There were questions about the journalistic ethics of posting WDBJ’s live shot and the killer’s own document of the shooting, given that it was exactly what he had been expecting.
人们对分享这些东西并非没有疑虑。在转发凶手的身份信息和Twitter帖子时，不少用户表达了保留意见。有人呼吁Twitter和Facebook尽快行动，封掉他的账户。对于发布WDBJ枪击直播镜头和凶手自己记录的枪击视频是否符合新闻伦理，他们也提出了质疑，尤其是考虑到这些行为正是凶手之前预期的。