KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The United States has reached a 10-year agreement with the Philippines that will give American warships, planes and troops greater access to bases in the archipelago, American officials said Sunday.
马来西亚吉隆坡——美国官员周日称，美国已与菲律宾达成了一项为期10年的协议，该协议将允许美国的军舰、飞机和部队更大范围地使用位于菲律宾各处的基地。
The deal, which will be the centerpiece of President Obama’s visit to the Philippines on Monday, returns the United States to a visible presence in the country for the first time since the American military gave up its sprawling naval and air bases, including one at Subic Bay, in 1992.
这项协议将是奥巴马总统周一访问菲律宾的核心成果。1992年，美国放弃了广布于菲律宾各处的海军和空军基地，其中包括苏比克湾的一个基地。上述协议将让美国首次再成为在菲律宾的显著存在。
The accord will also give the United States more flexibility to project its military assets in a region that has become increasingly tense.
协议也让美国可以更加灵活地在该地区投放军力。该地区的局势日益紧张。
Still, administration officials said the deal was not intended to contain China.
尽管如此，奥巴马政府的官员仍然表示，该协议的意图并不是遏制中国。
“We’re not doing this because of China,” said Evan Medeiros, senior director for Asian affairs at the National Security Council. “We’re doing this because we have a longstanding alliance partner.”
“我们这么做不是因为中国，”国家安全委员会(National Security Council)亚洲事务高级主管埃文·梅代罗斯(Evan Medeiros)说，“我们这么做是因为我们有一个长期的盟友。”
The American military presence in the Philippines was a frequent source of tension between the countries, who are treaty allies. But the rapid response of American ships and planes after Typhoon Haiyan, amid a more chaotic Philippine response, has increased popular support for allowing the United States military to have more access.
美菲两国是依据条约结成的盟友，美国在菲律宾的军事存在经常成为两国矛盾的来源。不过，在台风“海燕”肆虐菲律宾之后，相较于菲律宾方面比较混乱的反应，美国的船只和飞机反应迅速，由此增加了菲律宾公众对扩大美军活动范围的支持。
“We have a long history as an alliance, but also a complex history,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser. “One event that gave momentum was the typhoon response.”
“我们的结盟历史十分漫长，同时也相当复杂，”副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说。“应对台风‘海燕’的过程促进了两国关系。”
The scope and timing of the agreement were still to be determined through further consultations, Mr. Medeiros said. He did not rule out the use of the Subic Bay site, which was one of the largest American bases overseas and a symbol of the American presence in the Philippines.
梅代罗斯说，这项协议的范围和时间安排还有待于进一步的磋商。他没有排除使用苏比克湾的可能性；苏比克湾曾是美国最大的海外军事基地之一，也是美国在菲军事存在的象征。
Mr. Medeiros emphasized that the deal would not open the door to the re-establishment of American bases in the Philippines. Even so, given the political situation, it required eight months of negotiations.
梅代罗斯强调，这项协议并不会敞开大门，允许美国在菲律宾重新建立军事基地。即便如此，鉴于目前的政治局势，协议仍需要8个月的协商时间。