Companies and institutions employing foreigners in China are starting to realize that to keep workers in the cities, they need to make changes to the way they operate. Based on anecdotal evidence, air pollution, more than anything else, is driving expatriate workers away from China, or dissuading those outside China from taking postings here. News reports of various rounds of  “airpocalypse” descending on Chinese cities have not helped.In response, some employers are handing out hardship bonuses. Others are allowing employees more vacation or work time outside the country. In recent months, the United States Embassy in Beijing has come up with its own strategy to blunt the hazards and the fears that come with Chinese smog: It has ordered thousands of air purifiers for the homes of employees from the United States.
在中国，雇佣外国人的企业和机构开始意识到，要让员工留在城市里，它们必须调整自己的运作方式。基于传闻证据，空气污染已经成为促使外籍员工离开中国，或阻止外国人来中国任职的头号原因。有关多轮“空气末日”降临中国城市的新闻报道令此种局面雪上加霜。作为回应，一些雇主正在发放艰苦地区工作津贴。其他一些雇主则允许雇员享有更多假期，或是更多在中国以外地方工作的时间。最近几个月，驻北京的美国大使馆想出了减少中国雾霾带来的危害和恐惧的策略：为美籍雇员的住所订购了数千台空气净化器。
Blueair, the Swedish company that is filling the embassy order, said the purchase was among the largest from China. “This is an important order,” said Jonas Holst, international sales manager for Blueair. “It’s absolutely in the top end.”
给使馆供货的瑞典公司布鲁雅尔(Blueair)表示，这是来自中国的规模最大的采购订单之一。“这是一笔重要订单，”布鲁雅尔全球销售业务经理约纳斯·霍尔斯特(Jonas Holst)说，“绝对是高端市场。”
Anxieties over air quality surged in January, when levels of fine particulate matter during a particularly smoggy spell in northern China reached, in some areas of Beijing, 40 times the recommended exposure limit set by the World Health Organization. The United States State Department sent a team of experts to China to evaluate employees’ homes and make recommendations on how to ensure relatively clean air quality indoors. American officials concluded they needed to place more air purifiers in frequently used residential spaces, such as bedrooms and living areas, even though new employees already get some units when they first arrive. (The embassy itself has a centralized air filtration system.)
1月，在华北地区雾霾特别严重的一段时间里，北京部分地区的细颗粒物浓度达到了世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)规定的建议接触上限的40倍，空气质量引发的焦虑由此骤增。美国国务院(State Department)派了一组专家来中国对雇员居住的房屋进行评估，并就如何保障相对较好的室内空气质量给出了建议。尽管新员工刚到居住地时就已经拿到了一些空气净化器，美国官员还是得出结论，他们需要在卧室和客厅等使用频繁的居住场所安装更多的空气净化器。（大使馆自己有一套中央空气过滤系统。）
After the team left, the United States government put out a call for proposals, and in the end it decided to go with an American supplier of Blueair products.
专家小组离去后，美国政府号召各方提供建议方案，并最终采纳了美国一家布鲁雅尔产品供应商的方案。
Some of the Blueair machines have begun arriving in Beijing. The United States Embassy declined to provide official comment on the purchase and did not specify the number of units bought. Mr. Holst also declined to give numbers, but he said the total was somewhere under 5,000 and more than a couple thousand.
部分布鲁雅尔空气净化器已经开始抵达北京。美国大使馆拒绝对此次采购发表官方评论，也没有具体说明购买数量。霍尔斯特也不愿提供数据，只是表示总量在2000台至5000台之间。
He also declined to give details on the purchase price. It is safe to assume the price per unit for the embassy order is much less than the retail price in Beijing. Torana Clean Air, an official Blueair seller in the Chinese capital, said its least expensive unit, the 203 model, cost 3,231 renminbi, or about $530. That model is mainly used for bedrooms and offices up to 20 square meters, or 215 square feet. The best-selling larger model, the 503, costs 6,174 renminbi. There is a top-of-the-line model imported from Sweden that goes for 11,980 renminbi, but sales of that are rare. Most Blueair units are made for export in Shenzhen, in southern China.
他也拒绝提供有关采购价格的细节。但可以肯定的是，每台的单价远低于北京的零售价。中国首都的布鲁雅尔产品官方经销商图兰纳空气净化公司(Torana Clean Air)表示，最便宜的203型净化器售价3231元人民币，约合530美元。该型号净化器主要用于面积不超过20平米，即215平方英尺的卧室和办公室。畅销型号503覆盖面积更大，售价是6174元人民币。从瑞典进口的顶级型号价格高达11980元人民币，不过罕有销量。布鲁雅尔的大多数产品都在中国南方的深圳制造，用于出口。
Prices of Blueairs vary around the world because of taxation, import duties and transport costs, said Chris Buckley, the head of Torana Clean Air (who is not related to the Chris Buckley who reports on China for The New York Times). Mr. Buckley said he had supplied schools and embassies in Beijing, including those of France, Finland and the Netherlands.
图兰纳的负责人克里斯·巴克利（Chris Buckley，他和为《纽约时报》撰写中国报道的储百亮没有关系，后者的英文名字也是Chris Buckley）说，布鲁雅尔在全球各地的价格因税费、进口税和运输费用而异。巴克利说，他给北京的一些学校和大使馆提供了产品，其中包括法国、芬兰和荷兰大使馆。
Among foreigners, a popular — and pricier — alternative to Blueair purifiers are those from IQAir, a Swiss company. Other brands are edging into the market, given the growth prospects in China. Some medical experts have tried to give their assessments of the models. Among them is Dr. Richard St. Cyr, a doctor at Beijing United Family Hospital who writes a health blog and a column for the Chinese site of The Times. In his estimate, Blueair performs well in tests against other brands.
外国人当中流行一款布鲁雅尔空气净化器的替代品，该产品来自瑞士的爱客公司(IQAir)，价格更贵。看到中国的广阔发展前景，其他品牌也在慢慢进入中国市场。一些医学专家已尝试对这些产品进行测评，其中之一是来自北京和睦家医院的圣西睿智(Richard St. Cyr)医生，他是一个健康博客的作者，还为《纽约时报》中文网撰写专栏。据他评估，在和其他品牌的比对测试中，布鲁雅尔表现出色。
Mr. Holst said Blueair had had a “significant” increase in revenue from China sales in the last 12 to 15 months, though he declined to give numbers. The biggest revenues are from Beijing and Shanghai, he said, though Blueair has a sales presence in 50 Chinese cities.
霍尔斯特说，过去的12到15个月内，布鲁雅尔在中国的销售额出现了“大幅”增长，不过他拒绝透露具体数字。他说，虽然布鲁雅尔在50座中国城市设立了销售点，销售额最大的地方依然是北京和上海。
Last week, Gary F. Locke, the American ambassador, announced he would leave his post early next year and return to Seattle. He has been in Beijing a little more than two years, a relatively short period for the job. His announcement prompted widespread speculation that he was fleeing the city’s notorious air. (After all, some Chinese are decamping to rural areas to lead greener lives.)
上周，美国驻华大使骆家辉(Gary F. Locke)宣布，他将于明年初离职，返回西雅图。他在北京待了两年多一点，在任时间相对较短。他的声明引发了广泛的猜测，那就是他打算逃离北京臭名昭著的空气（不管怎么说，一些中国人也正在遁入乡村地区，追求更绿色的生活。）
But Mr. Locke told The Los Angeles Times that he was leaving because he and his wife had agreed their children should spend their junior and senior years of high school in the United States. “We are concerned about it,” he said of the air quality, “but that’s not what motivated us to go back.”
不过，骆家辉对《洛杉矶时报》(Los Angeles Times)表示，他之所以要离开，是因为他和妻子都觉得，子女应该在美国上初中和高中。他是这么说空气质量的，“我们对此感到担忧，不过，空气并不是促使我们回国的原因。”
On Friday and Saturday, the air quality index in the capital, as measured by a device on the rooftop of the United States Embassy, reached the “hazardous” level. That is when American officials recommend staying indoors, preferably with purifiers on.
上周五和周六，位于美国大使馆房顶的装置测得的首都空气指数达到了“危险”级别。当时，美国官员建议人员待在室内，最好还要把空气净化器打开。