TOKYO — The police in Japan are investigating telephoned death threats to the United States ambassador, Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of President John F. Kennedy, and to an American diplomat in Okinawa, Japanese and international news agencies reported on Wednesday.
东京——日本及国际新闻机构在周三报道称，日本警方正在对美国驻日本大使、约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)总统的女儿卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)及一名美国驻冲绳外交官接到死亡威胁电话一事开展调查。
The reports came as Michelle Obama, the first lady, arrived in Japan on her first visit to the country, and as Ambassador Kennedy, together with former President Bill Clinton, appeared with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at a Tokyo symposium on the legacy of Ambassador Kennedy’s father, who was assassinated in November 1963 when she was 6 years old.
有关报道刊出之时，正值美国第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)抵达日本进行首次访问，而肯尼迪与前总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)则与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)一同在东京参加了有关肯尼迪父亲事迹的研讨会，1963年11月父亲遇刺时，卡洛琳·肯尼迪只有六岁。
Concern about the security of American diplomats in Asia was heightened a few weeks ago when the United States ambassador to South Korea, Mark Lippert, was slashed by a knife-wielding assailant in Seoul.
几周前，美国驻韩国大使马克·利伯特(Mark Lippert)在首尔被一名持刀袭击者刺伤一事，加剧了对美国驻亚洲外交官人身安全的担忧。
Responding to the reported death threats, the State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said Wednesday in a statement: “We take any threats to U.S. diplomats seriously. We take every step possible to protect our personnel. We are working with the Japanese government to ensure the necessary measures are in place. We will not comment on the specific details of any threats or the steps we take to address them.”
周三， 国务院女发言人珍·萨基(Jen Psaki)就有关死亡威胁的报告作出回应，发表声明称，“我们严肃对待针对美国外交官的任何威胁。我们采取所有可能的举措，保护我们的人员。我们正在与日本政府合作，确保必要举措落实到位。我们不会就收到的威胁或我们解决问题的举措的具体细节置评。”
The reports said that both Ambassador Kennedy and Alfred Magleby, the United States consul-general in Okinawa, the southern island where the United States maintains a large military presence, had been the objects of death threats in telephone calls last month. It was not clear why the threats had not been made public earlier.
报导称，肯尼迪大使和美国驻冲绳——有大量美国驻军的日本南部海岛——总领事阿尔弗雷德·麦格雷比(Alfred Magleby)，都在上月接到了死亡威胁电话。目前尚不清楚为何有关方面没有更早公布这些威胁。
The accounts included a report by The Asahi Shimbun, a major Japanese newspaper, that said the United States Embassy had received calls from an English-speaking male, who was quoted as saying “I will kill Ambassador Kennedy.” The report gave no attribution to its source. Embassy officials could not be reached for comment on Wednesday night.
这些报道中包括日本主要报刊《朝日新闻》(The Asahi Shimbun)的一篇报道。文章表示，美国大使馆接到了一名讲英语的男子打来的电话；据报道，此人声称“我要杀了肯尼迪大使”。报道没有指明这句话的来源。周三夜间，记者无法联系到使馆官员并请其置评。
The visit to Japan by Mrs. Obama, who has Secret Service protection, is part of an Asia tour meant to emphasize the importance of girls’ education. She is scheduled to depart on Friday for Cambodia.
由特勤局(Secret Service)保护的米歇尔·奥巴马对日本的访问，是她此次为强调女孩教育重要性而发起的亚洲之行的其中一站。按计划，她将于周五前往柬埔寨。
Ambassador Kennedy, who took up her post in late 2013, is widely admired in Japan, where her father is idolized, although she has ruffled some sensitivities.
于2013末上任的肯尼迪大使在日本得到普遍认可，她的父亲在这里是一个备受崇敬的人物。不过她也触动了一些敏感问题。