POCATELLO, Idaho — With great fanfare, a Chinese polysilicon factory broke ground on 67 acres here in 2007. Then, as the rest of the nation tumbled into recession, the plant rose up in shimmering promise, leaving this tough-edged railroad town — blue collar and union in a sea of southeast Idaho potato farms — feeling pretty good about the future.
爱达荷州波卡特洛——2007年，一家占地67英亩（约合0.27平方公里）的中国多晶硅工厂热热闹闹地在这里破土动工。后来，在美国其他地方陷入经济衰退之际，这家工厂带着光辉的承诺屹立了起来，让这座位于爱达荷州东南部的处境艰苦的铁路小城，以及如海洋般的土豆种植园催生的蓝领工人和工会，对未来充满期待。
So what if the company wanted breaks and concessions? The decision by the city to buy the land and lease it back almost free seemed like a bargain at $1.4 million, given the potential payoff.
那么，如果这家企业希望享受各种优惠，又该怎么办呢？波卡特洛市决定以140万美元（约合850万元人民币）买下那片土地，再以近乎免费的价格租给该公司。考虑到可能带来的回报，这似乎是笔捡便宜的交易。
Subcontractors and suppliers from around the nation and world were also arriving to build the $700 million plant, and discovering — so residents and business leaders hoped — Pocatello’s small-city charm. And the hundreds of production jobs in the end would be a big step toward the dream of a high-technology future, picking up where railroad and manufacturing jobs had faded.
全美国及世界各地的转包商和供应商纷纷来到波卡特洛，建设这座投资额达7亿美元的工厂。当地居民和商界领袖希望，他们还能同时发现这里的小城魅力。最终带来的几百个工作岗位将是向高科技未来的梦想迈进的一大步，改善铁路和制造业就业机会消失后的局面。
Now, 18 months after shutting completely, the factory, which was to produce materials used in solar panels, stands ghostly and silent. It never went into full operation, and in the global collapse of silica prices, it probably never will, solar industry experts said.
现如今，在彻底关停18个月后，这家本来打算生产太阳能组件所需材料的工厂如同幽灵般矗立在这里，悄无声息。工厂从未全面投产，而且太阳能行业的专家称，随着全球二氧化硅价格的暴跌，它可能永远都看不到那一天了。
Wooden crates of equipment, some never opened, sit stacked where they were left, like time capsules from a lost world. And instead of being discovered by entrepreneurs and venture capitalists, Pocatello’s name — linked to a bankrupt company accused by its biggest American creditor of fraud and racketeering in a federal lawsuit — has now rippled out in all the wrong ways, residents said.
装有设备的木箱子被堆放在原地，犹如另一个世界留下的时空胶囊，其中有些从未开封过。当地居民称，企业家和风险投资人并没有发现波卡特洛这个地方，它的名字现在却通过各种错误的方式传播了出去。这里与一家破产的公司绑在了一起。公司在美国最大的债权人以诈骗和勒索的罪名，对它提起了联邦诉讼。
“It makes me sick thinking about the waste,” said Brian C. Blad, the mayor of this city of 54,000 people.
“想到这些浪费，我就心烦意乱，”波卡特洛市长布赖恩·C·布拉德(Brian C. Blad)说。这座小城拥有5.4万人口。
At the downtown federal courthouse where the bankruptcy of the Hoku Corporation is unfolding, lawyers for unpaid creditors — looking to collect, not spend — have descended in force. Hoku collapsed with about $1 billion in debts, and a list of unpaid creditors in more than a half-dozen states and countries. They include big names like Oracle and KPMG, the accounting firm, and small contractors like Industrial Piping Inc. of Pineville, N.C., which has about 300 employees, and a $13.6 million unpaid Hoku invoice.
在位于市中心的联邦法院，Hoku公司(Hoku Corporation)的破产事宜正在处理中，被拖欠款项的债权人的律师蜂拥而至。这些人是来收债的，而不是花钱的。Hoku倒闭了，负债约10亿美元，债权人来自六个以上的州和国家，其中有像甲骨文(Oracle)和会计师事务所毕马威(KPMG)这样的大牌企业，也有像北卡罗来纳州派恩维尔的工业管线公司(Industrial Piping Inc.)这样的小承包商。工业管线拥有大约300名员工，手握1360万美元尚未支付的Hoku发票。
“The debacle in Pocatello was a very large hit,” said T. J. Bucholz, a spokesman for Industrial Piping, which is majority-owned by an equity capital company in Grand Rapids, Mich. “We’re not General Motors.”
“在波卡特洛的败笔是非常大的打击，”工业管线的发言人T·J·布霍尔茨(T. J. Bucholz)说，“我们又不是通用汽车(General Motors)。”该公司的多数股权为密歇根州大急流城的一家权益资本公司所有。
Pocatello’s road was tough before Hoku ever came to call. It lost many of its good railroad jobs when Union Pacific consolidated operations in Utah. A potato processing factory in a neighboring town — about 10 percent of the work force commutes there from Pocatello — has said it will close next year. And like Idaho as a whole, it has suffered from a downward spiral in wages.
Hoku到来之前，波卡特洛处境艰难。联合太平洋铁路公司(Union Pacific)整合在犹他州的业务时，波卡特洛失去了许多好的铁路行业就业岗位。临近城镇的一家土豆加工厂已表示将在明年关闭。那家工厂约10%的劳动力来自波卡特洛。与整个爱达荷州一样，它深受工资水平螺旋式下降的影响。
From 37th place in per capita income in the mid-1990s, the state is now 49th, kept from the bottom only by Mississippi, according to federal figures. Part-time jobs have been among the fastest-growing employment categories in recent years, with almost one in four jobs statewide offering less than full-time hours — the fifth-highest rate in the nation. Many downtown businesses are vacant and up for lease, and the struggling local shopping mall is scheduled to go up for auction this month.
联邦数据显示，爱达荷州的人均收入排名已从上世纪90年代中期的第37位跌至现如今的第49位，仅比密西西比州靠前。近年来，兼职工作成为增长最快的就业门类之一。全州有近四分之一的工作岗位提供的工时低于全职工时，这一比例在全国排第五位。市中心的许多办公场所都处于空置状态，等待出租。当地那家举步维艰的购物中心也定于本月进行拍卖。
Booming areas within driving distance, such as the energy drilling areas in North Dakota and the strong economy of Salt Lake City, two hours to the south, have kept the local unemployment rate below the national average. But that only masks the trouble, residents said.
从波卡特洛开车就能抵达周边的繁荣地区，比如北达科他州的能源钻探地区，以及城镇以南两小时车程的经济强劲的盐湖城。这些地方帮助波卡特洛把失业率控制在了全国平均水平以下。但当地居民表示，这不过是粉饰太平。
“It’s one of Idaho’s greatest failures,” said Roger Chase, Pocatello’s former mayor, talking about jobs and low pay scales. Mr. Chase struck the deal with Hoku and was running again on Tuesday for his old job against Mr. Blad. But in a mostly civil campaign, neither man is blaming the other for how things turned out.
谈到就业和低薪比例的问题，波卡特洛前市长罗格·蔡斯(Roger Chase)说，“这是爱达荷州最重大的失败之一。”当年与Hoku达成协议的正是蔡斯。周二，他再次竞选，挑战布拉德的市长一职。不过，在这场基本上很温和的竞选中，两人均未指责对方应为此事的后果负责。
In addition to the local land deal, Hoku also got $2.2 million in federal grants for solar development, according to federal officials, and a promise of job training money from the state.
联邦官员称，除了当地那笔土地交易，Hoku还从联邦政府获得了220万美元的太阳能开发援助款。此外，爱达荷州还承诺为其提供岗位培训金。
Another economic rescue with Hoku’s glamour and promise is not on the horizon. Mr. Blad, in an interview in his office, said a big employer had recently expressed interest in coming here, bringing perhaps 1,000 jobs. But the company, which he declined to name — a warehouse distributor that does most of its sales over the Internet — has said it would offer $10 an hour, only a few dollars above the minimum wage.
还没有迹象表明，会有另外一个经济救星，带着Hoku当年的光环和前景前来。在办公室接受采访时，布拉德称，一家大型用人机构前不久表示有意来波卡特洛，或许会带来1000个岗位。然而这家企业表示，只愿支付10美元的时薪。这个水平仅比最低工资高几美元。布拉德拒绝透露公司的名字，只说那是一家仓储分销商，大部分销售通过互联网进行。
The company even had the audacity to ask for financial incentives, which the city has politely declined. “We would welcome them, and we would value them,” Mr. Blad said. “But I can’t justify taxpayer dollars for a $10-an-hour job.”
那家公司甚至还大言不惭地要求享受财政激励政策，但被波卡特洛市政府礼貌地回绝了。“我们欢迎他们，也很重视他们，”布拉德说，“但是，我没理由用纳税人的钱去换取每小时10美元的工作岗位。”
The Hoku pain is not over yet, either. In August, the former general contractor at the plant, JH Kelly, based in Longview, Wash., and owed $24 million, sued Hoku’s majority owner in China, Tianwei New Energy Holdings. The federal suit accuses the company of fraud and racketeering in promising that bills would be paid.
而且，Hoku的困扰还没褪去。今年8月，总部位于华盛顿州朗维尤的凯利公司(JH Kelly)将Hoku的中方大股东天威新能源控股有限公司告上了法庭。凯利之前是Hoku工厂的总承包商，如今发起了联邦诉讼，控告天威诈骗和勒索，因为天威曾承诺会支付相关款项。
Lawyers representing Tianwei did not respond to email and phone requests for comment. Meanwhile, a public auction of the plant, held last month, only rubbed salt in the wound: The top bid for the vast works and all they contain was $3.7 million. A bankruptcy court judge will decide this month which bid or combination of bids is best for the creditors.
天威的代理律师没有回复要求置评的邮件和电话。与此同时，上月举行了工厂的公开拍卖，但不过是在伤口上撒盐：竞拍者最高只愿出370万美元购买那座宽阔的工厂和里面所有的设备。本月，一名破产法院法官将作出哪方的竞标或竞标组合对债权人最有利的裁决。