SEOUL, South Korea — After four and a half years of low-key yet highly sensitive negotiations, the United States and South Korea announced a revised treaty on Wednesday that continues to deny — but not permanently rule out — South Korea the right to enrich uranium or reprocess spent nuclear fuel, even for peaceful purposes.
韩国首尔——在进行了四年半低调但却高度敏感的谈判后，美国和韩国在周三宣布了一项条约的修订版。新条约依然禁止——但并非永久性阻止——韩国拥有浓缩铀或重新加工废核燃料的权利，哪怕是用于和平目的。
South Korea has been prevented from enriching uranium and reprocessing spent-fuel, technologies used by countries such as North Korea to make nuclear weapons, under a 1972 treaty in which the United States helped South Korea build its nascent nuclear energy industry.
1972年，美国在帮助韩国建设处在起步阶段的核能源工业时签署了一项条约。按照该条约的规定，韩国一直被禁止浓缩铀或重新加工乏燃料。朝鲜等国家就是利用这些技术制造核武器的。
The two governments started negotiations in 2010 to rewrite the treaty, which was originally set to expire in 2013. But their differences were too big to resolve, leading them to sign a separate deal to extend the expiration date.
为了修订条约，两国政府从2010年开始谈判。按最初的规定，条约在2013年到期。但因为分歧过大，无法解决，双方另签了一份协议，延长了条约有效期。
South Korea insisted in the talks that it needed to enrich uranium to produce fuel for its fast-expanding nuclear energy industry. It also wanted to reprocess spent fuel to reduce its nuclear waste storage.
在谈判中，韩国坚持认为自己需要浓缩铀，以便为正在快速扩张的核能源工业生产燃料。韩国还想对乏燃料进行再加工，以减少核废料的库存。
But the United States maintained that allowing South Korea to employ those technologies, even for peaceful purposes, would set a bad precedent and undermine its global efforts to discourage the spread of activities that can be used to produce weapons-usable nuclear materials.
但针对可用于武器的核原料的生产活动，美国正在全球范围内展开行动阻止其扩散。允许韩国使用这些技术，即便是用于和平目的，也会开一个不好的先河，对行动构成破坏。
Both sides announced on Wednesday that they had completed the bargaining, with the United States ambassador, Mark Lippert, and Park Ro-byug, the chief South Korean negotiator, initialing the text during a ceremony in Seoul, the South Korean capital. The agreement is subject to review by the United States Congress.
双方在周三宣布已结束谈判，美国驻韩国大使马克·利伯特(Mark Lippert)和韩国首席谈判代表朴鲁壁(Park Ro-byug)在韩国首都首尔举行仪式草签了这份协议。协议将接受美国国会的审查。
The new treaty does not allow South Korea to enrich uranium or reprocess spent fuel anytime soon. But it does not commit South Korea to legally renounce these techniques either.
新条约不允许韩国在近期浓缩铀，或对乏燃料进行再加工，但也未让韩国承诺在法律上宣布放弃这些技术。
Instead, it leaves open the possibility that South Korea could enrich uranium for civil nuclear energy “in the future through consultations with the United States.” In the meantime, Washington promised to help secure a supply of nuclear fuel for South Korean atomic power plants, Seoul said in a news release.
相反，新条约保留了一种可能性，即韩国可以“将来通过咨询美国”，进行用于民用核能源的铀浓缩。与此同时，首尔在新闻稿中称，华盛顿承诺帮助韩国核电厂获取核燃料供应。
The deal also created the option for South Korea to have its spent fuel reprocessed abroad in countries that both Seoul and Washington believed posed no proliferation risk.
该协议还为韩国提供了另一种可能性：该国的乏燃料可以在首尔和华盛顿都认为不存在扩散风险的国家进行再处理。
The United States also promised to help South Korea find new nuclear waste management options that would be economically viable and more proliferation-resistant. As part of such efforts, South Korea said its scientists would be allowed to do early experiments on a kind of nuclear reprocessing known as pyroprocessing.
美国还承诺，将帮助韩国寻找经济上可行，且更加能够防止扩散的新的核废料管理方案。韩国表示，作为该计划的一部分，该国的科学家们将可以对一种被称为高温回收的核再处理方法进行早期试验。
The new treaty also establishes a high-level committee that will assess the implementation of the treaty.
根据这份新的协议，还将设立一个高层委员会，负责评估协议的实施状况。
The United States hailed the treaty as reaffirming “the two governments’ shared commitment to nonproliferation.” Ju Chul-ki, senior secretary for foreign affairs for President Park Geun-hye of South Korea, said the agreement reflected his country’s status as a major player in civil nuclear energy.
美国赞扬这份协约重申了“两国政府对核不扩散的共同承诺”。韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的外交安全首席秘书朱铁基(Ju Chul-ki)称，该协议反映了韩国作为民用核能领域重要参与者的地位。
Lee Byong-chul, a senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul, said the deal was beneficial for both countries, though it reminded South Koreans of the constraints placed upon their country’s nuclear industry.
首尔的和平与合作研究所(Institute for Peace and Cooperation)高级研究员李炳哲(Lee Byong-chul)说，该协议对两国都有好处，不过它提醒着韩国人本国核工业受到的种种限制。
South Korea is the world’s fifth-largest nuclear energy producer, with 23 reactors providing 36 percent of the country’s electricity needs. It has also presented nuclear power plants as one of its new export items. (The country is building four reactors for the United Arab Emirates.)
韩国是世界第五大核能生产国，有23个反应堆，它们满足着该国36%的电力需求。韩国还把核电站作为一个新的出口项目。（该国正在为阿联酋建设四个核反应堆。）