When Elizabeth Gilbert was in fourth grade, her teacher, Ms. Sandie Carpenter, announced a fund-raiser. Students were asked to sell grinders — New Englandese for “sub sandwiches” — to pay for a class trip. There was never any question whether Gilbert would participate. Still, door-to-door sales of a perishable foodstuff can prove intimidating, even to a zealous 9-year-old.
伊丽莎白·吉尔伯特(Elizabeth Gilbert)上四年级的时候，她的老师，桑迪·卡朋特(Sandie Carpenter)女士布置了一项筹款作业。学生们要出去卖“桥头堡”，一种在新英格兰地区很流行的三明治，赚到的钱用于班上组织的出游活动。任务是必须参与的，小吉尔伯特当然不能例外。但是，上门推销一种不能放到第二天的食物，不管是谁都会觉得是个难度不小的任务，哪怕是一个初生牛犊不怕虎的九岁孩子。
So her mother, Carole, initiated a training program. She made Gilbert go outside and close the front door. Gilbert then had to knock, introduce herself and explain what she was selling and why. “Our family’s going on vacation next week,” Carole might announce. “What if we want the grinders two weeks from now?” To which Gilbert would generally respond, “I don’t know!” and start crying. “Back it up,” her mother would say. “Try it again. Get it right, kid.” And close the door.
于是，她的母亲卡罗尔(Carole)想出了一个训练方法。她让小吉尔伯特走出去，关上大门。然后吉尔伯特敲门，介绍自己，解释自己在卖什么和这样做的目的。“‘我们家’下周要去度假，”卡罗尔会说，“如果我们两星期后再要三明治可以吗？”而小吉尔伯特对大多数这一类回答的反应是：“我不知道！”然后放声大哭。“加油，”她妈妈说，“再试一次。你会成功的，孩子。”然后再次关上了门。
They did this, Gilbert recalls, for what felt like a whole afternoon.
根据吉尔伯特的回忆，她们这样反复练习了大约一整个下午。
A decade and a half later, Gilbert took an elevator up to the offices of Spin magazine to ask for a job. Her only connection at the magazine was having met the publisher, Bob Guccione Jr., at a party once. She had no experience as a journalist — her degree from N.Y.U. was in international relations — and enough good sense to be terrified. The doors to the elevator opened. Gilbert took a deep breath. Come on, she told herself. You’re Carole Gilbert’s daughter. Go do this!
15年之后,吉尔伯特乘着电梯，来到《Spin》杂志社，希望得到一份工作。她与这本杂志唯一的交集是在一个聚会上见过他们的出版人，小鲍勃·古桥内(Bob Guccione Jr.)。她从来没有任何新闻工作的经验，只有纽约大学的国际关系学位，和及其容易被吓坏的神经。电梯的门打开，吉尔伯特做了个深呼吸。“拜托，”她对自己说，“你是卡罗尔·吉尔伯特的女儿，去吧！”
The receptionist was, to put it gently, unmoved by her appeal. A concerned secretary appeared, then a personal assistant. Gilbert politely refused to budge. Guccione eventually agreed to see her but had no recollection of having met her. Look, he said finally, my assistant is going out of town for three days. You can do his job. At the end of this stint, Guccione pulled out his wallet, handed Gilbert 300 bucks and wished her good luck.
前台接待员，客气一点地说，并没有被她的诉求打动。一个心烦意乱的秘书出来打发她，然后是一个私人秘书，而吉尔伯特礼貌地拒绝离开。最后古桥内终于同意见她，但是完全想不起来他们曾见过面。这样吧，他说，我的助理要出差3天，你可以做他的工作。在这场角力的尾声，古桥内拿出皮夹，付给吉尔伯特300美金，并祝她好运。
Some months later, Gilbert placed her first short story in Esquire, which published it with the subtitle “the debut of an American writer.” She sent the story to Guccione with a note that read, “I told you I was a writer!” He called and offered her an assignment on the spot.
几个月后，吉尔伯特在《Esquire》杂志发表了自己的第一个短篇，副标题是：“一个美国作家的处女作”。她把文章寄给古桥内，附了一张纸条：“我告诉过你我是个作家！”古桥内当即给她打了电话并向她约稿。
The lesson was obvious. Life was just a big grinder sale. Your job was to knock on the door and not to leave until your ambitions were met.
这堂课告诉我们的是，生活就是像是推销三明治，你所要做的就是敲门，在你的诉求没有实现之前，绝不离开。
Next month, Viking will publish Gilbert’s sixth book, a novel titled “The Signature of All Things.” It is her first work of fiction in 13 years and unlike anything she has ever written. The book’s heroine is Alma Whittaker, the brilliant, restless daughter of an imperious botanical explorer. Its prose has the elegant sheen of a 19th-century epic, but its concerns — the intersection of science and faith, the feminine struggle for fulfillment, the dubious rise of the pharmaceutical industry — are essentially modern.
下个月，维京出版社(Viking)将出版吉尔伯特的第六本书，小说《万物的签名》（The Signature of All Things暂译）。这是她13年来第一本虚构类作品，而且与她过去的作品完全不一样。书中的女主角阿尔玛·维塔克(Alma Whittaker)聪明、骄傲不安，是一位声名显赫的植物探险家的女儿。书中散文诗式的语言有着19世纪叙事诗般的华贵冷艳，而它所关注的主题：科学和信仰的碰撞，女性成就自我的奋斗，医药产业崛起背后的晦暗，皆充满了现代精神。
What sets Gilbert, 44, apart from other novelists, of course, is that she’s best known in the world at large as the author of “Eat, Pray, Love,” an account of her spiritual journey from depression to enlightenment spiced by its exotic locales. The 2006 memoir sold a gazillion copies, spawned a movie starring Julia Roberts, made Gilbert the unwitting guru to her predominantly female fans and more or less devoured her literary reputation.
让44岁的吉尔伯特与其他小说家不同的是，人们认识她当然是因为《美食、祈祷和恋爱》(Eat, Pray, Love)一书，这是一本极具异域风情，讲述了作者怎样从沮丧压抑到澄澈豁达的灵修之旅的作品。2006年这本回忆录小说大卖，之后被改编成了一部由茱莉亚·罗伯茨(Julia Roberts)主演的电影。吉尔伯特无形中成为了万千女性粉丝心中的精神导师，却多多少少削弱了她在文学成就上的声誉。
Despite having spent the first decade of her career writing three critically acclaimed books, critics cast her as a pampered solipsist peddling self-help. “Even worse — chick lit, if you really want to get ghetto,” Gilbert says. “What little respect I clawed my way to, I totally erased.”
尽管她在写作生涯的第一个十年里出版过三本受到评论界肯定的作品，批评家们仍然将吉尔伯特定义成了一个热衷于自我救赎的言情作家。“还有更糟的，‘小鸡文学’——如果你真想知道他们是怎么把我定位的，”吉尔伯特说。“曾经步履蹒跚地获得的那么一点点儿的尊重，都被我彻底抹去了。”
Her overriding concern in those years, though, was living up to her own professed grace. She received mountains of letters from anguished fans and for a time tried to answer every one personally. And she struggled with the crushing expectations that acclaim bequeaths. “The biggest thing I had to prove was, ‘Is she going to be able to come out of this tsunami and ever do anything again?’ Or am I going to Harper Lee out? Go J. D. Salinger for the rest of my life?”
这几年她最关心的，是如何挽回自己作为作家的尊严。她总是收到堆成山的信，来自一颗颗痛苦的心，一度曾试着亲自回复每一封，同时又不断地与自己那渴望分享的欲望搏斗。“我需要知道‘她是否能走出心灵危机，是否能重新开始做任何事情？’还是我会变成另一个哈珀·李(Harper Lee)？或者像J·D·塞林格(J. D. Salinger)那样度过我的下半辈子？”
She began researching a novel about the Amazon but abandoned it after her lover Jose Nunes — the sexy Brazilian gem trader known as Felipe in “Eat, Pray, Love” — was deported. The only way Nunes would be allowed to return to the States was if Gilbert married him, an unsettling prospect given the haunting failure of her first marriage. To sort out her complicated feelings about matrimony, Gilbert resolved to write about the subject. As a midlist author, she’d rarely felt self-conscious at the keyboard. As a cultural icon, the pressures of undertaking another memoir activated her most primal fear: that she would disappoint people. “Committed” wound up being her most arduous project. When it was published, in 2010, she felt more apprehension than elation. “I threw it out into the world like a grenade. I was like, ‘All right, everybody, whatever you have to say about the last book, whatever resentment you’ve built up over the last few years, let’s just catharsis it out and move on.’ And it did that.”
她开始为一本关于亚马逊的小说做资料收集，然而当她的爱人乔瑟·努恩斯(Jose Nunes)，那位性感的巴西珠宝商，《美食、祈祷、恋爱》中菲利普(Felipe)的原型，被限令出境后，她放弃了。能让努恩斯留在美国的唯一方式是吉尔伯特嫁给他，出于第一次婚姻失败的阴影，这是一个令她困扰的打算。为了理清自己对于婚姻生活的复杂感觉，吉尔伯特开始写作此类题材。原来作为一个非畅销作家的时候，她很少能在敲击键盘时保持自我意识。后来作为一个文化偶像，出版另一本回忆录作品的压力触动了她最原始的恐惧：她会让人们失望吗？《承诺》(Committed)成了她最吃力的作品。2010年这本小说出版时，她感受到的是更多的焦虑而不是欣慰。“我把它像一颗手榴弹一样地扔了出去。我只想说‘好吧，无论你们想对上一本书说什么，无论这些年你们积累了多少厌恶，让我们一次给个痛快然后翻篇儿吧！’那本小说完成了这个任务。”
Gilbert had withstood the narcissistic onslaught of fame, found stability in her personal life and laid claim to the biggest prize of all: the feeling that she had nothing to lose with her next project. She wasn’t about to waste the opportunity writing “a thinly veiled autobiographical story about a young woman’s vague sense of dread.”
吉尔伯特承受了名利带来的洗礼，在个人生活中找回了安定平稳，这一切给她带来最大的回报是，她在自己的下一部作品中不再顾虑得失。她不再准备把机会浪费在“关于一个年轻女子惶恐与清愁的遮遮掩掩的自传体小说”上。
Instead, Gilbert has returned to her roots in fiction and written the sort of rip-roaring tale that would have been considered entertainment for the masses 150 years ago. The challenge she faces now is how to sell the pleasures of old-fashioned storytelling to masses who hunger for more personal disclosure. Millions of readers love Elizabeth Gilbert. The question is: Will they love her imagination?
现在，吉尔伯特回到了她小说创作的根本，并写出了一个非常热闹的故事，风格颇让人想起150年前的大众娱乐读物。而她面临的挑战是如何将这种复古的讲故事的愉悦卖给当下那些渴望自我揭露的读者。成千上万的人都爱伊丽莎白·吉尔伯特。问题是，他们会爱上她的想象力吗？
To those who have followed Gilbert’s trajectory, the abiding oddity of her career is that she began it as one of the boys. She took her cues from Hemingway, whose collection “In Our Time” convinced her that writers find stories not in a seminar room but by investigating the world. After college, she roamed the country taking jobs like trail cook and bartender. Then — again, think Hemingway — she turned to journalism.
那些一路跟随吉尔伯特转变的人认为，她在写作上不走寻常路的倾向由来已久，从入行起她就更像男性作家。受海明威的《在我们的时代里》(In Our Time)的启发，吉尔伯特相信，作家不是在学术讨论中，而是通过探索世界来创作的。大学毕业后她就在国内各处旅行，体验各种职业，从拖车厨师到酒吧招待，然后，像海明威一样，进入了新闻界。
It was immediately obvious that she had the knack. Veteran editors still talk with reverence about articles she wrote two decades ago. She traveled to China for Spin and filed a story about the Three Gorges Dam that read like a dispatch from Hunter S. Thompson’s kid sister: sad, funny and surreal. Gilbert soon joined GQ, becoming one of the few women on staff, an arrangement that suited her. She thought nothing of plopping down next to Art Cooper, GQ’s famously macho editor, to pitch him stories as he downed his 5 o’clock vodka. The body of work she amassed — profiles of rebels and daredevils, mostly — composed a sustained investigation of masculinity. She went so far as to dress in drag and live as a man for a week.
很显然她已经掌握了写作者的诀窍。老编辑们在谈起她20年前写过的文章时仍然心怀敬畏。她曾为《Spin》关于三峡工程的报道到过中国采访，而她的报道读起来仿佛是女版亨特·S ·汤普森（Hunter S. Thompson，著名的《滚石》杂志记者——译注）的作品：伤感、戏谑而超现实。没多久，吉尔伯特加入了《GQ》杂志，成为为数不多的女性员工之一，这倒是非常适合她。连她都没有想过，突然之间，她就站在亚特·库珀(Art Cooper)，《GQ》那富有男子气概的著名编辑面前，在他享用例行的下午5点伏特加时，去和他讨论选题。在此期间她采写了大量作品，大部分是关于叛乱和政治人物的专题特写，累积了对男性特质持续深入的调查。其中最极致的经历是易装为男人生活了整整一周。
These preoccupations seeped into her fiction. The women in her 1997 story collection, “Pilgrims,” make a habit of invading male sanctums, and Ruth Thomas, the heroine of her first novel, “Stern Men,” is determined to infiltrate the crusty fraternity of Maine lobstermen. In “The Last American Man,” Gilbert documented the turbulent life of Eustace Conway, a self-made naturalist who abandoned the false comforts of suburbia for a life in the wild. The book, an ingenious amalgam of biography and cultural analysis, was a finalist for the National Book Award in 2002. She figured it would be her commercial breakthrough.
这些早年的投入自然而然地渗透进了她的创作。在她1997年的《朝圣者》(Pilgrims)作品系列中的女性，大多数都涉及男性领域；罗斯·托马斯(Ruth Thomas)，她第一本小说《尾桨手》(Stern Men)的女主角，就千方百计地要突破由男人统治的海上捕虾船。在《最后一个美国人》(The Last American Man)中，吉尔伯特记录了尤斯特斯·康维(Eustace Conway)，一个自发的自然主义者坎坷的一生，放弃了城郊富人区的浮华生活而选择去荒野中度过余生。这本书天才地结合了人物传记与文化分析，并成为2002年国家图书奖的的大奖入围之一。吉尔伯特认为，那是她在商业上取得的一次突破。
It is not lost on Gilbert that, even as her insights into men propelled her career, her romantic relationships with them continued to implode. She was hungry for sensual experience but had, in her own delicate phrase, “a delayed sense of consequence.” The end of her first marriage, followed by a toxic affair, sent her reeling into a depression.
虽然在她的职业生涯里一直以男性为思考对象，吉尔伯特的罗曼史从来没有受到影响，而是火花四射。她非常渴望肉体的激情，但是，用她自己的话说，“对于后果的感知相对滞后”。在她结束第一次婚姻后，又经历了一段不愉快的感情，造成了一段长时间无法摆脱的抑郁。
Journalism and fiction had allowed Gilbert to play the role of invisible observer. She now presented her editor at Viking, Paul Slovak, what he calls “one of the most incredible proposals we’d ever seen in publishing,” a distillation of her personal crisis with a radical plan to sell all her possessions and travel abroad. She framed the project as an effort to balance her pursuit of pleasure with a spiritual life. It would be more accurate to describe “Eat, Pray, Love” as a coming-out story. After a decade spent writing for and about men, Gilbert turned her focus inward, toward the pain and yearning she felt as a woman.
新闻采访和小说创作让吉尔伯特有机会做一个隐形的观察者。一天，她呈交给维京出版社编辑保罗·斯洛瓦克(Paul Slovak)一份写作计划，用后者的话来说，是“我们在出版界以来看到的最不可思议的策划”，关于她经历个人危机，卖掉一切财产环游世界的精华故事。吉尔伯特将这次写作定义为一次寻求个人欲望的满足与精神世界之平衡的修行。或许用一次“出柜”来描述《美食、祈祷和恋爱》更为准确。在为男人写关于男人的作品十年之后，吉尔伯特将她的视角向内，转向了她作为一个女性所感受的痛与欲求。
The memoir became an Oprah-sanctified franchise in part because it was a wish fantasy. Rather than immerse readers in the therapeutic labors that allowed her to leave her husband, she took them on a walkabout full of pasta, prayer and mind-blowing sex. But the book also spoke to the unconscious desires and anxieties of women who felt trapped by marriage and motherhood and desperate to find another path to contentment.
这本回忆录被奥普拉(Oprah Winfrey)这样的女性主义者所认可，一部分原因是它是一个愿景。她带领着读者一起漫步于意大利面、祷告声和令人神魂颠倒的性爱中，而不是沉溺于描写那些让她最后决心离开丈夫的心理治疗所历经的挣扎。同时，这本作品还说出了女性潜意识中的欲望与焦虑，在感到被婚姻和母亲身份所束缚，寻求获得自我满足、自我实现的另一条道路的渴望。
“Committed” marked an even deeper effort to reckon with the societal ideals imposed on women. The most moving portions of the book detail the sacrifices made by the women in Gilbert’s own family, including her mother’s decision to abandon her career in deference to her husband’s. In this context, it becomes easier to see why Carole Gilbert pushed her daughter so hard to become self-reliant.
而《承诺》这本书，对社会意识形态对女性之影响做了更深层次的思考。这本书中最令人动容的章节详细地描述了吉尔伯特本人家庭中的女性为家庭做出的牺牲，比如她的母亲为了支持丈夫放弃了自己的事业。由此可以理解，为何卡罗尔·吉尔伯特如此努力地培养自己的女儿独立。
Gilbert is honored to call herself a feminist. “I’m appalled that the word has become something people flinch before they say. More than being a feminist, I’m like the winner of feminism. I won the results of their work.”
吉尔伯特非常骄傲地称自己为女性主义者。“我很遗憾这个词成为了某种让人们在说出它之前会畏缩的东西。我不仅仅是女性主义者，我还是女性主义的受益者。我赢得了她们努力希望获得的结果。”
Consider the efforts that went into producing “The Signature of All Things.” Gilbert spent three and a half years on research alone. She hopscotched the globe, enlisted the aid of a dozen experts, then granted herself the right to run wild with the plot. The result is a rousing homage to the literary heroes she grew up reading. “I just wanted to play with the people I love the most — Dickens, the Brontës, Eliot, James,” Gilbert says. “I wanted to jump around in their world. It was fun as hell to set the bar that high.”
谈到为了《万物的签名》所付出的努力，吉尔伯特花了三年半的时间来做资料搜集。她走遍世界各地，向十多位专家学者求助，同时让情节在自己的想像中信马由缰。最后，她产生了向那些伴随自己成长的文学大师们致敬的想法。“我想和那些我最爱的作家们一起游戏——狄更斯(Dikens)、勃朗特姐妹(Brontës)、艾略特(Eliot)、詹姆斯(James)……”吉尔伯特说，“我多么希望在他们的世界里跳跃，将挑战设得如此之高真是有趣到死。”
At the center of her tale is Alma Whittaker, an interloper in the masculine realm of science and a woman who — at the bidding of her mother — finds redemption by means of her own intellectual achievement. A woman, that is, a lot like Elizabeth Gilbert. Alma hurls herself into a world of adventure yet struggles with an equally tumultuous internal life: family loyalty, carnal impulses, marital heartbreak. And like Gilbert, she is an intensely driven woman whose sense of destiny derives from an unorthodox upbringing.
这次她的主人公是阿尔玛·维塔克，一个男性主宰的科学世界里的闯入者，在母亲的激励下，依靠自己的智慧取得成功的女人。一个，可以说，与伊丽莎白·吉尔伯特极为相像的女人。阿尔玛将自己置于一个充满冒险和挑战的世界里，同时她的内心也经历着重重矛盾：家庭的责任、肉体冲动、婚姻创伤。还与吉尔伯特相像的是，她之所以成长为一个执著而相信命运的女人，与她那不走寻常路的抚养方式息息相关。
In 1973, John and Carole Gilbert moved to a derelict farmhouse that sat on three acres outside the prosperous town of Litchfield, Conn. They dreamed of opening a Christmas-tree farm that would eventually pay the college tuition of their two daughters. This was, by most American standards, a cockamamie scheme. John was employed full time as a chemical engineer at Uniroyal. Carole was helping to establish a Planned Parenthood clinic, a trailblazer in the battle for women’s reproductive rights. Liz was 4 years old at the time.
1973年，约翰·吉尔伯特(John Gilbert)和卡罗尔·吉尔伯特(Carole Gilbert)搬到了位于康涅狄克州繁华的利奇菲尔德镇外一座大约占地三公顷的旧农舍。他们的梦想是开一家专门种植圣诞树的林场，未来能支付两个女儿的大学学费。对于大多数美国人来说，这是一个自找麻烦的计划。约翰的全职工作是罗尼尤伊尔轮胎公司的化学工程师。卡罗尔则在一所筹建中的计划生育诊所(Planned Parenthood clinic)帮忙，那是一家很前卫的机构，目的是维护女性生育的权利。伊丽莎白当时四岁。
But the rigor and rhythms of rural life appealed to John and to Carole, who grew up on a farm. Although the homestead was located on a major highway a mile from the local country club, the family was soon growing their own food, keeping chickens and bees and washing their hair in rain barrels.
乡村生活的清苦和节奏却很适合约翰和卡罗尔，他们都是在农场长大的。虽然他们的家就在一条干道边，距离当地的乡村俱乐部只有一英里，这家人却很快地开始自己种菜、养鸡和蜜蜂，还用雨桶洗头发。
Friends loved to sleep over. The girls had baby goats, which they helped birth themselves, and a room full of costumes. Carole was the kind of mom who organized neighborhood treasure hunts and made the world’s best pancakes. John was a joker who might appear at the breakfast table wearing a bra over his work shirt.
朋友们都喜欢到吉尔伯特一家留宿。女孩子们养着自己亲手帮忙接生的小羊羔，还有一整个房间的戏服。卡罗尔是那种会组织户外寻宝游戏和烘烤世界上最好吃的松饼的母亲。约翰则是个谐星，会把胸罩穿在工作服外然后出现在早餐桌上。
As playful as they could be, the Gilberts were not hippies. They were modern pioneers whose embrace of Calvinistic virtues bordered on fanatical. “My parents are the only people I’ve ever known who made their own goat’s-milk yogurt and voted for Reagan twice,” Gilbert notes. “That’s a Venn diagram that doesn’t include anyone else.”
虽然他们都很爱玩儿，吉尔伯特一家并不是嬉皮士。他们是拥有超前意识的先行者，拥护加尔文主义倡导的道德观但不至于狂热。“我的父母是我认识的唯一会自己做羊奶乳酪并且投了里根两次票的人，”吉尔伯特说，“他们俩是绝无仅有的绝配。”
Like many people whose lives have grown more luxurious than their origins, Gilbert is practiced in the art of rendering the privations of her youth as a comic monologue. She talks a lot about what it was like to grow up in a home with no television and no heat aside from a wood-burning stove that warmed only two rooms. But she is acutely aware of the literary advantages her childhood bestowed.
像大部分过得比自己的祖辈优裕的人一样，吉尔伯特描述起自己童年的清苦生活时非常有画面感。关于如何在一个没有电视和暖气的家里生活，仅靠着一个烧木柴的炉子，最大程度也只能给两间房取暖……这样的故事，她可以说个不停。但是，她也不否认童年经历给她的文学创作带来的种种优势。
“When Malcolm Gladwell talks about the 10,000 hours you need for proficiency, I had that by the time I was 8 probably. All we did was make up stories and live them out.” The Gilbert girls read constantly — it was the one leisure activity not considered idling — and fought over the typewriter their father brought home from work. They bound their own books and drew author portraits with bios. “The only thing missing was a quote from Gore Vidal.”
“马尔科姆·格拉德威尔(Malcolm Gladwell)提出的1万小时理论（即每个人只要练习一项技能达到1万小时就能成为专家——译注），八岁时就已发生在我身上。我们每天都在编故事和讲故事。”吉尔伯特姐妹俩经常读书，这是一项不会被认为是浪费时间的休闲活动，此外就是争着使用父亲从办公室带回家的一台打字机。她们会装订自己的书，并且画上作者肖像，甚至加上简介。“就差没引用戈尔·维达尔（Gore Vidal，美国著名剧作家、评论家——译注）的书评了。”
For Gilbert, writing was not just a badge but a shield. Within the intense ecosystem of her family, she often felt helpless and overly sensitive. Her mother would follow her around the house, making sure she practiced her piano and finished her chores. She did a lot of crying. But she got with the program. “I was the baby of the family, but I was never babied, and that allowed me to take whatever artistic temperament I had and apply learned discipline. I was taught how to work. I think that’s everything. Creativity and imagination alone are not going to get you there.”
对吉尔伯特来说，写作不仅仅是一枚奖章，还是一块盾牌。在这个家庭的生态圈中，她常常感到无助和过度敏感。在家里母亲会跟着她后面，敦促她练钢琴和完成家务。她常常哭，但适应了这种模式。“我是这个家里的小不点儿，但我从来没被当成过小不点儿，所以我可以耍所有的艺术家脾气，同时去验证所有我学到的教训。我从小就被教育如何去工作。而且我认为那就是一切。光有创意和想像力是绝对不够的。”
Gilbert lives in Frenchtown, N.J. — a gussied-up former mill town — at the end of a gravel drive in a pale yellow Victorian filled with artifacts from her travels. When she and Nunes moved in five years ago, the house was surrounded by a groomed lawn. A previous owner had chopped down the majestic oak out front to build a circular driveway. Almost at once, Gilbert became consumed with reseeding the property. The house is now flanked by tiered beds of Echinacea, sunflowers, forsythia and tiger lilies, which rise above and around numerous stone Buddhas. The circular driveway has become a meadow of blazing yellow wildflowers.
吉尔伯特现在住在新泽西的法国镇，过去曾是磨坊城。一条碎石子路的尽头，是她居住的淡黄色的维多利亚式房子，里面摆满了她旅行时从世界各地搜集的工艺品。五年前她和努恩斯搬进来的时候，这所房子被一大片平整的草坪包围着，某一任屋主为了修建环形车道而砍掉了屋子前方的一棵参天橡树。几乎从搬进去的那一刻起，吉尔伯特就开始全身心地沉浸在新家的绿化上了。现在这所房子的一侧盛开着一层层的紫雏菊、向日葵、连翘和虎纹百合，在花丛中的是巨大的石雕佛像。环形车道已经变成了一大片绿地，黄色的小野花点缀其间。
Seated in her screened-in porch, with a ginger tabby named Zipper perched on her lap, Gilbert concedes that the compulsion to garden took her unawares. She attributes the urge to her bloodlines. “I come from a long line of women who are good in the soil.”
吉尔伯特坐在游廊里，膝上卧着“拉链”——这是一只姜黄色的虎斑猫，她坦言自己对花园的热情来得毫无防备，这是血液里带来的，“我的祖先里有一长串儿擅长农活的女人。”
As a writer, Gilbert subscribes to the notion that finding your next project is a scavenger hunt. You’re always looking for clues. She briefly considered writing a nonfiction book about gardening but found herself more compelled by the provenance of various plant species.
作为一个作家，吉尔伯特的信条是，寻找下一个灵感需要地毯式的搜索。你永远在寻找线索，一开始她认为会写一本关于园艺的书而不是小说，接着发现其实植物繁多的种类更能激起自己的兴趣。
As she was researching this, she came into possession of another clue: a 1784 edition of Captain Cook’s “Voyages Round the World” that had been in the family for generations. She and her sister, Catherine, worshiped the book as kids. In fact, at age 4 Gilbert scrawled her name in the book, ruining its value to collectors. Whether or not this act of vandalism was also an act of foresight, the gentle reader shall have to decide. The result was the same. Her mother handed her the book, and Gilbert felt a jolt of electricity run up her arm.
在研究植物的时候，她发现了另一个让她沉迷的线索：一本1784年版的库克船长(Captain Cook)的《环球航行》(Voyages Round the World)，在自己的家族里已经被收藏了好几代。她和姐姐凯瑟琳在童年时将这本书奉若圣经。事实上，吉尔伯特4岁时就把自己的名字涂在了这本书上，毁坏了这本书对于收藏家们的意义。不管怎么说，读者可以自己判断这个破坏性的举动是否颇有远见。结果是一样的。她妈妈递给她这本书，而吉尔伯特感到手中传来一阵电流。
She spent the next six months poring over the volume. Her mind kept circling back to Sir Joseph Banks, the botanist who accompanied Cook. She and Banks were, she realized, engaged in the same pursuit: botanical exploration. As it happens, botany was one of the few scientific areas open to women in the 19th century, at least to those who tended to be wealthy, childless and related to a famous scientist. From these raw criteria, Alma Whittaker began to take shape.
接下来的六个月里，吉尔伯特倾力写作。她的意识不断地盘旋在约瑟夫·班克斯(Sir Joseph Banks)爵士，那个陪伴库克船长的植物学家身上。于是她意识到，自己和班克斯有着共同的追求：探索植物王国。而在19世纪，植物学恰恰是为数不多的对女性持开放态度的科学领域，至少对那些较为富有、没有孩子并且与一位著名科学家有血缘关系的女性是这样。正是在这些素材上，阿尔玛·维塔克的形象浮出了水面。
The next hurdle Gilbert faced was writing a novel set in the past. She was worried she’d fall into the trap of writing self-consciously dated prose. “Candlesticky” is the word she uses. She read “Wolf Hall,” Hilary Mantel’s 640-page novel about Thomas Cromwell, three times before the solution dawned on her. Mantel had written a contemporary novel about the 16th century. Gilbert didn’t have to pretend to be George Eliot. She could be herself writing about the 19th century.
吉尔伯特面对的下一个问题是，她写的是一个发生在过去的故事。她很担心自己会再次落入书写自我意识的现代句式里。“断不了的蜡烛泪，”她这么形容。她读了三遍希拉里·曼特尔(Hilary Mantel)的《狼厅》(Wolf Hall)，一本640页的关于托马斯·克伦威尔(Thomas Cromwell)的小说，然后有了方案。曼特尔写了一本关于16世纪的当代小说，而吉尔伯特不需要假装自己是乔治·艾略特（George Eliot，19世纪著名英国小说家——译注），她可以用她自己的方式去写关于19世纪的故事。
This freed her, for example, to delve into Alma’s sexual life, which she does with gusto. The book includes torrid passages of faux Victorian pornography, and Alma emerges as a first-rate explorer of her own anatomy.
这个念头让她释然，举个例子，她津津有味地描绘了阿尔玛的性生活。在书里她虚构了维多利亚时代的情色文学的热辣章节，而阿尔玛便是对自己身体的一流的探索者。
To capture the tone of her characters’ speech, Gilbert spent a year reading almost nothing written after 1890. She focused on private letters, the sort dashed off under duress. “That’s when you could really see the person behind them, because they didn’t have time to worry about how it was going to make them look. They’re e-mails, basically.”
为了抓住她创作的角色的腔调，吉尔伯特在一年里几乎没有阅读任何1890年之后的文字。她的阅读集中在私人信件上，尤其是那些在压力下匆匆写就的。“这样你才能看到文字背后的那个人，因为他们没有时间担心看信的人会怎么想自己。基本上就像是E-mail。”
The final question she confronted was what Alma Whittaker would study. Moss quickly became a candidate. Then she came across a line in one of her moss books that compared a particular species to Darwin’s finches. Here was proof positive that Alma’s focus on an unsung, miniature world could lead to a giant scientific revelation. “I almost started barking,” Gilbert recalls, rising out of her chair. “I was like: Ahhhh! There it is! There it is! The final clue.”
最后一个要解决的问题是，阿尔玛·维塔可该研究什么呢？苔藓很快成为一个备选。吉尔伯特在自己的关于苔藓的书上读到了一段将某些特定种类与达尔文的雀类相比较的段落。这成为了阿尔玛对于一个未知的微观世界的执着将带来的一个巨大的科学发现。“我几乎是在嚎叫，”吉尔伯特边回忆边从椅子里站了起来，“我叫着，啊啊啊啊啊！就是它！就是它！最后一个线索！”
This might explain why Gilbert is so amped up as we approach the home of Dave Benner, a k a the Moss Man. A former ornamental-horticulture professor, Benner is the world’s foremost advocate of moss as a replacement for the common lawn. That he lives 15 miles down the road from Gilbert can only be called fate. “I might really geek out here, dude,” she says, practically leaping out of her Honda S.U.V.
或许这解释了当我们一起来到著名苔藓学家戴夫·班纳(Dave Benner)的家时，吉尔伯特为什么显得那样兴奋。作为前装饰类园艺学教授，班纳是世界上呼吁用苔藓替代普通草坪的头号倡导者。而他就住在离吉尔伯特家15英里的同一条路上。吉尔伯特把这称为命中注定。“我可以做个真正的科学怪咖，亲。”她边说边跳下她的本田SUV。
She spends the next two hours trailing Benner around his property. Together, they inspect every single variety of ground cover, from lakes of spongy iridescent moss to lavender patches of Quaker-ladies, from tasseled ferns to a pygmy hemlock whose crown has been assiduously trimmed to look like a friar’s tonsure. Gilbert keeps saying things like: “Hibiscus at that height? You’re out of control, Dave!”
接下来的两个小时，她一直跟在班纳后面。他们一起观察了地表上的每一种植物：从海绵状的多色苔藓到教会妇女风格的薰衣草圃，从流苏状的羊齿草到有毒的侏儒芹，后者的顶部冠状的部分被持续修剪成修士的发型的样子。吉尔伯特时不时冒出一句：“那么高的木槿？要不要这样啊，戴夫！”
Benner is particularly eager to show off an ivylike shrub called gymnaster that a friend of his, now deceased, smuggled to the States from an island off the coast of Japan — in his underwear. “I may be the only person in the United States with this species. It’s amazing when you think about it.”
班纳非常急切地想炫耀一棵叫裸菀属、长得象常春藤的灌木，那是他的一位故友从日本的某个海岛上偷偷带到美国来的——裹在他的内衣里。“我可能是美国唯一一个有这个种类的人，多不可思议啊！想想看！”
The pair reach a little clearing, and Gilbert settles onto the ground. “This is a wonderful world you’ve made,” she tells the Moss Man. It’s midafternoon before she can tear herself away. “That was, like, the best thing that’s ever happened to me,” she says. “Don’t you love an obsessive?”
他们渐渐结束了这次参观，吉尔伯特准备离去。“你建造了一个多么奇妙的世界啊！”她对那个苔藓佬说。此时已经临近傍晚，她依依不舍。“这真是降临在我身上最棒的事情。”她说道，“难道你不喜欢生活里来一点儿癖好吗？”
By the time Gilbert arrives back in Frenchtown, she’s famished. Lunch at her favorite local eatery, a bustling farm-to-table cafe called the Lovin’ Oven, begins with a side order of bacon and sliced avocado, then proceeds to a second side of bacon, three fish tacos, two slices of chocolate-and-sea-salt-caramel tart and a Snickers bar (off menu).
回到法国镇时，吉尔伯特饿坏了。来到她最喜欢的当地食肆，这是一间生意很好的叫“爱之炉”(Lovin’ Oven)的“从农田到餐桌”概念餐厅。她叫了一客培根佐鳄梨片的前菜，然后是又一道培根，三块鱼肉墨西哥玉米卷，两片巧克力海盐焦糖塔和一块菜单上没有的士力架。
In her defense, Gilbert shared the tart. Also, before she could actually sit down to eat, she’d been detained by a dozen friends, ranging from a local hypnotherapist seeking book recommendations to a woman applying henna tattoos on the sidewalk. Such is the hazard of being Frenchtown’s most visible and chatty civic booster.
为了她自己好，吉尔伯特分享了她的焦糖塔。在真正坐下来用餐之前，她又被好几拨朋友耽搁了。有当地的催眠师，请她给自己推荐几本书；也有在路边绘印度墨刺青的女人。这就是法国镇最引人瞩目又健谈的居民每次出现必定引起的骚动。
Rather than seeking seclusion — the assumed inclination of artists beset by fame — Gilbert has sought to reshape her hometown into a community that suits her fancy and reflects her values. She persuaded the owners of the Lovin’ Oven, for example, to move from a nearby town into a former electronics factory she bought and had renovated. Friends also own the adjoining art gallery and a Pilates studio. Most of the building is occupied by Two Buttons, a cavernous bazaar run by Nunes and crammed with handcrafted esoterica from Indonesia. The vibe is communal; the prices are retail.
大多数出了名的艺术家都会想尽办法去躲清静，而吉尔伯特却更愿意让自己的家乡成为一个能体现自己成名价值的社区。比如她说服了“爱之炉”的老板把餐厅从附近的镇子上搬到了这间她买下并改造的旧电子工厂里。旁边就是她朋友开的画廊和普拉提教室。这座建筑的大部分都被“两颗扣子”(Two Buttons)——一间努恩斯经营的大型市集所占据了，到处摆放着来自印度尼西亚的手工绘制的秘籍。这个空间是公共的，价格也很市集。
When she’s not traveling, Gilbert surrounds herself with old friends, an increasing number of whom she’s persuaded to move to Frenchtown. Her lunch companions today include Bill Miller, a photographer she met while tending bar at Coyote Ugly, an East Village watering hole she wrote about years ago. Her article later inspired a risible film of the same name. Miller is among the select company who witnessed Gilbert clear the room at closing time by climbing atop the bar and using a broom to sweep the drinks of unsuspecting patrons into the wall.
不旅行的时候，吉尔伯特喜欢和老朋友们呆在一起，越来越多的人被她忽悠到法国镇上来。她今天的午餐饭友包括比尔·米勒(Bill Miller)——她在“丑狼俱乐部”(Coyote Ugly)工作时认识的摄影师；那是她在多年前写过的在曼哈顿东区的一间酒吧。后来那篇文章还成为了一部同名喜剧电影的灵感。米勒是少数曾见过吉尔伯特在酒吧打烊做卫生时，爬到吧台上用扫把打翻那些赖着不走的老主顾们的酒。
Also on hand for the pigout is her best friend, Rayya Elias. Gilbert showed up at her apartment a dozen years ago in dire need of a haircut. “She had this nasty little ’fro,” Elias says. “It looked like Art Garfunkel’s hair.”
另一个是好友瑞娜·伊利亚斯(Rayya Elias)。多年前，吉尔伯特出现在她的公寓里求她给自己剪头发。“她的头发乱糟糟。”伊利亚斯说，“就像亚特·加芬克尔（Art Garfunkel，美国歌手——译注）那种发型。”
“It was like a topiary,” Gilbert clarifies.
“是像修建过的灌木丛，”吉尔伯特纠正她。
Elias served as a confidante during the dissolution of her first marriage and later traveled to London to play fairy godmother/stylist to Gilbert, who was exhausted from months of touring. Together, they attended the British film premiere of “Eat, Pray, Love” and hung out with Julia Roberts. (Gilbert: “It’s stupid how beautiful she is. It’s like getting clubbed on an ice floe.”)
伊利亚斯目睹了吉尔伯特第一次婚姻的失败，后来她去伦敦扮演了吉尔伯特的仙女教母兼造型师，当时的吉尔伯特因数月的旅行而筋疲力尽。她们一起参加了《美食、祈祷和恋爱》电影的伦敦首映式，还和茱莉亚·罗伯茨一起出去泡吧（吉尔伯特说“我们真太傻了，她那么美，我们俩在她身边简直是自讨没趣”）。
A few years ago, when Elias endured her own nasty divorce, Gilbert invited her out to Frenchtown to live in a house she’d purchased. Gilbert’s only rent demand? A draft of the memoir she’d been urging Elias to write for years — due in nine months. “Harley Loco,” Elias’s account of punk rock and addiction, came out in April, with an introduction by her landlord.
几年前，伊利亚斯自己也经历了一段不愉快的离婚，吉尔伯特邀请她到自己刚在法国镇买下的房子里小住。唯一要收的租金是她一直撺掇伊利亚斯写了多年的回忆录手稿，其实只写了9个月。4月，《哈雷机车》(Harley Loco)——伊利亚斯关于庞克摇滚迷的文字出版，她的房东为她写了序言。
“My surprising wealth coincided with the housing crash, so it worked out,” Gilbert explains. “Everybody was able to get a house.” She’s only half joking. Several other artist pals have benefited from her largess. She manages this potentially fraught form of patronage deftly, though it’s taken some trial and error. Early on in the windfall era, she fell into the trap of trying to save people or push them onto paths she felt they should follow. “I deeply regret having inserted myself and my money into some people’s lives so thunderously and often unwisely.”
“我在房价暴跌的时候刚好挣了钱，所以那完全行得通。”吉尔伯特说，“每个人都可以有自己的房子。”她有一半在开玩笑。好几位艺术家朋友们都从她的慷慨中受益。她很灵活地运作这个投资潜力股形式的赞助，当然其中也经历了不少尝试和失误。早年她曾陷入意图拯救某人或强行推动某人走她认为他们应该走的路的错误里。“我很后悔，曾经非常不理智地把自己和金钱强行塞入别人的生活中。”
After lunch, we pay Gilbert’s husband a quick visit in his office. Perhaps because he was a major character in both of her memoirs, Nunes, a gracious man of 61, has shied away from media attention in the past. But he’s eager to discuss his wife’s new novel, for which he served as something of a muse. “One of the greatest pleasures of our marriage was for me to come back from work and get a glass of wine and listen to her read what she wrote each day.”
午餐后，我们简短参观了吉尔伯特丈夫的办公室。或许因为他是她两部回忆录中的主要角色，努恩斯，一位61岁的优雅男士，过去一直尽量躲避来自媒体的关注。但他非常热情地谈起妻子的新作品，这次他的角色多多少少是她的缪斯。“我婚姻生活的最大乐趣之一就是下班回家，喝杯红酒，然后听她念每一天写下的文字。”
“I read him every word of the book,” Gilbert confirms. “I think that’s why it went so fast. I had to keep the story going because Jose was waiting for the next part. It was almost like writing a serialization.” After so many years of research, she wrote the novel in a four-month burst, and the prose mirrors her exuberance.
“我给他读了书里的每一个字，”吉尔伯特说，“我想那就是一切能进行得如此迅速的原因。我必须持续地写，因为乔瑟夫总在等着下一章。感觉上就像是在写连载。”经过了这么多年的准备工作，她在四个月内一气呵成了这本小说，那些散文诗式的文字反映了她丰富的累积。
“I would listen and say to myself, ‘Where does she find these things?’ ” Nunes shakes his head then gazes at his wife. “How did you come up with these ideas, love?”
“我边听边对自己说，‘她到底是从哪儿发现这些的？’”努恩斯摇着头注视着他的妻子。“亲爱的，你到底是怎么想到的？”
Gilbert spends the rest of the afternoon drifting down the Delaware River with Elias on an inner tube. She tells stories about the guys who broke her heart in college, and after college, and about her skinflint forebears, who supposedly sold George Washington the boats to make his famous crossing of the Delaware. Sadly, the Weiner Boat — an enterprise that sells folks hot dogs as they pass — has quit for the day. But when we come ashore downstream, Gilbert is thrilled to discover the Weiner Boat docked. She reaches through the railing, grabs the walkie-talkie and hollers into it, for no apparent reason, “We got an empty boat here!”
当天下午余下的时间里，吉尔伯特和伊利亚斯一起跑去德拉威尔河划船，她们乘着一只橡皮艇顺流而下。她说起那些在大学里以及毕业后让她心碎的男人，还有那些大学毕业后的，还有她那些吝啬鬼祖先们，乔治·华盛顿(George Washington)横渡德拉威尔河时就是向他们买的船。可惜的是，那家专门在河上卖热狗的维纳船(Weiner Boat)没出现。然而当我们在下游靠岸时，吉尔伯特惊讶地看到维纳船就停泊在那儿。她从围栏间伸出手去，抓起对讲机没来由地大声喊道：“我们的船是空的！”
Charm always is a bit of a racket, as Saul Bellow observes. But Gilbert’s magnetism derives from a genuine source, what her friend Paul Holdengräber calls “a deep-rooted moral ambition for joy.”
魅力总会有些烦人的，正如索尔·贝勒(Saul Bellow)所言。然而吉尔伯特的吸引力是天生的，她的朋友保罗·荷尔登格拉伯(Paul Holdengräber)这么说：“来自于根深蒂固的、对于快乐的道德式崇拜。”
Gilbert herself has no patience for those who subscribe to the myth that misery and madness enhance creativity. She feels no nostalgia for the upheaval that generated her memoirs and views her new novel as evidence that she works best when her life is in balance. Writers have a duty to confront the darkness within themselves at the keyboard. But they have an equal duty, she argues, not to romanticize their sorrow or inflict it on those around them. She describes the most important part of her spiritual practice as a daily effort to cultivate compassion. A ghostly tattoo of the word runs along her left forearm, like a palimpsest.
对于有的人所迷信的痛苦与疯狂才能提升创意的观念，吉尔伯特完全不能忍受。她毫不留恋那些促使她写出回忆录的跌宕，反而更愿意相信新的作品证明了她在平衡的生活状态下可以最好地创作。作家有责任在敲击键盘时面对自己最黑暗的一面。但作家也同样有责任，吉尔伯特认为，不去浪漫化自己的个人情绪或以此影响他人。她每日最重要的灵修就是建立同情心。这个词被刺在她的左前臂上，已经有些模糊，像是写在羊皮纸上的痕迹。
This attitude, which can scan as New Age-y, has made Gilbert a magnet for derision, particularly among “serious” authors and critics who assume that the popularity of “Eat, Pray, Love” speaks to its superficiality, and by extension the author’s.
这种态度，或许可以被归为新世纪的Y世代精神，这也是吉尔伯特会招来一些嘲弄的一个因素，尤其对于一众“严肃”作家和批评家，他们认为《美食、祈祷和恋爱》的成功是因为它的浅显，作者本身也是。
Gilbert sees the quest for literary status as a narcissistic trap. “The big munga munga thing for writers is: ‘What are they going to say? What are they going to think of me? Am I going to be invited into the club? Am I going to be honored? Am I going to be given awards?’ I’m less interested in who’s including me than in who I’m including.”
吉尔伯特则将追求文学界的地位视为一种自恋的陷阱。“对这样的作家来说最大的事无非是：‘他们会怎么说？他们会怎么想我？我会被邀请去俱乐部吗？我会获得荣誉吗？我会得奖吗？’我才不在乎谁会看上我，我更在乎的是我要看上谁。”
Among friends, she’ll joke about the dread she feels when she spots a fervent lurker at one of her readings. But even during the heyday of her celebrity, when hard-core “Lizbians” haunted Frenchtown hoping for an audience, Gilbert remained shockingly unguarded. “They’d tell me they felt like they knew me, ha-ha-ha, and I’d say that’s not your fault, that’s my fault. I wrote two memoirs and told you everything about myself.”
与朋友在一起时，她会拿自己在读书会后被疯狂书迷跟踪吓得要死这样的事情来开玩笑。但即使在她最走红的那段日子里，只要“里斯本”那一类的情色表演来到法国镇，吉尔伯特仍然表现得毫无戒备。“他们对我说觉得很了解我，哈哈哈，而我会说那不是你的错儿，是我的。我写了整整两本回忆录来告诉你我所有的事啊。”
The only time I saw Gilbert lose her equanimity, in fact, was discussing her fans. She detests the mind-set that certain readers are more desirable than others. “It’s the worst kind of arrogance. Shouldn’t the idea be that we want people to read, period? Isn’t it an honor if somebody chooses our books at all, whatever her background, whatever her education, whatever her level of perceived literary credentials?” She recalls meeting a woman in a Tulsa Barnes & Noble — “probably 65 years old, looked like an aging country singer with sad eyes” — who told her “Eat, Pray, Love” was the first book she’d read in her life, and she now understood why people read. “So if that’s the kind of reader I’m not supposed to want, well, Jesus Christ. Give me a few thousand more of those!”
事实上，唯一一次看到吉尔伯特失态，是在讨论她的粉丝的时候。她及其反感对所谓精英读者群的设定。“这是最糟糕的一种傲慢。我们难道不是希望人们来读书吗？难道当有人选择了我们的书来阅读，无论她来自什么样的背景，受过什么程度的教育，她的文学造诣如何，对我们不都是一种荣誉吗?”她说起在图尔沙（俄克拉荷马州——译注）的巴诺书店(Barnes & Noble)遇到的一位女士，“她大约65岁左右，看起来就像是一个有着忧伤的眼睛的老乡村歌手”，她告诉吉尔伯特，《美食、祈祷和恋爱》是她一生中读的第一本书，而且她明白了为什么人们都在读它。“如果那不是我应该需要的那些读者，哦耶稣基督，我希望再给我成千上万个她。”
Now that people have started telling her that “The Signature of All Things” will attract “a different level of reader,” she can’t help hearing the implicit slight in this praise: “You might be lucky enough to get out of your ghetto, now that you’ve found a better grade of readers, meaning male readers. I want to say: ‘Go [expletive] yourself! You have no idea who the women are who read my books, and if I have to choose between them and you, I’m choosing them.’ ”
现在开始有人告诉她，《万物的签名》将吸引“不同层面的读者”，这种称赞仍然让她感到刺耳：“你很幸运能超越自己的局限，现在你找到了更高端的读者，意思是男性读者。我只想说：‘去你（消音）的！你才不知道那些读我的书的女人是谁，在她们和你之间，我绝对选择她们！”
Which is why you won’t catch her whining about the mammoth book tour that lies ahead. “I want to bring this book to people and ask if they’ll read it, and I feel like I have to ask them personally. I gotta sell those grinders, man.”
这就是为什么你将不会在未来声势浩大的新书宣传中看到她煽情的原因。“我想自己把书带到人们面前，问他们是否愿意读。而且我觉得必须私下问他们。我肯定会把这些三明治卖出去的，等着吧！”
Eventually, once she’s finished knocking on doors, Gilbert will return to what remains ground zero for her creative life, the attic space she calls her Skybrary.
最终，一旦她完成了她敲门的任务，吉尔伯特将回到她创作生活的零点，那个她称之为“空中图书馆”的阁楼。
It is a spacious, low-ceilinged aerie filled with books and relics and secret compartments. There is a bed in one corner for naps. There is a pilgrim’s kimono from Japan. There is that ancient edition of Captain Cook’s “Voyages,” bound in leather and as regal as billed. There is a 15-foot slab of polished acacia that serves as her desk. If the 10-year-old Elizabeth Gilbert could have designed a work space, it would look exactly like this, right down to the built-in bookshelves, which appear to send out tendrils that trace the walls and wind around the pillars like vines.
那是一个宽敞的、天花板低矮的阁楼间，装满了书籍、旧物和神秘的零碎。角落里有张供人打盹儿的床。一件来自日本苦行僧的和服。还有那本古老的库克船长的航行日志，用皮革紧紧包裹，宣告了它尊贵的地位。一张15英尺长的处理过的合欢木作为她的书桌。如果十岁的伊丽莎白·吉尔伯特会为自己设计一间书房，它看起来一定就是这个样子，嵌入式书架的底部一定还会伸出植物的触须蔓延到整个墙面，然后像葡萄藤一样缠绕在柱子上。
Lined up in another corner are boxes that contain the thousands of index cards compiled during her research, meticulously annotated and filed. The notes scribbled on them are the building blocks she uses to develop the themes, characters, scenes and structures of her books. She learned this method from Mr. Kisco, her ninth-grade Western Civilization teacher.
另一个角落堆放着装满了成千上万张索引卡的箱子，那些都是在她做研究时留下的，每一张都精细地做了注解和分类。上面标记着她积累的各种素材笔记：书里的主题、角色、场景和结构。这是她从契思科先生(Mr. Kisco)——九年级时的西方文明史老师那里学会的这个方法。
Gilbert, naturally, is most excited about the secret compartments. “That’s the problem with being a natural memoirist,” she says. “Whenever anyone comes up, I say, ‘Let me show you my secret compartments!’ ” She reaches into a drawer and slides a metal frog along its back edge. Out pops a second drawer, inside of which is a tiny code book she and a friend used to write covert notes when they were 7.
不出所料，吉尔伯特最喜欢那些神秘物件。“这就是一个自然主义传记作家的职业病，”她说，“无论谁来，我都要说，‘让我给你展示一下我的神秘收藏！’”她伸手探进一个抽屉，移动一只嵌在它底边上的金属青蛙，第二个抽屉弹了出来，里面是一本袖珍密码书，那是她和一个朋友之间互通密信时使用的，当时他们只有七岁。
Known among her Litchfield friends as an ardent historian and archivist, Gilbert still has copies of the school papers she wrote as a kid — at least the ones that received A’s. She has programs from high-school plays, profanely inscribed by the members of her artsy crew, who called themselves Team Muff Dive. She has the rejection letter she received from Columbia. (“Wanna send them that?”) And tucked on a shelf behind her desk, beside the moss-covered bust of Alma Whittaker made by an artist friend, is the very first clue on the scavenger hunt that led her to write “The Signature of All Things”: a handmade booklet titled “Plant Science.”
她在利奇菲尔德的朋友们都知道，吉尔伯特不仅是个狂热的历史迷，也是个档案迷。她仍然保存着念书时候写的论文，至少是那些得了A的部分；高中时代天马行空的情色剧本，来自她那群自诩为艺术家并自称为“口活儿帮”的损友们。她还留着那封哥伦比亚电影公司拒绝她的信（莫非她想把那个剧本寄给他们？）。就在书桌后面的架子上，一尊被苔藓覆盖的阿尔玛·维塔克的半身雕像——来自她的一位艺术家朋友——边上，塞着最早启发她创作《万物的签名》的第一个线索，一本名为《植物学》的手抄小册子。
It was composed 35 years ago. That same fourth-grade teacher, Ms. Carpenter, brought a different houseplant into class every day for a month. Gilbert set down a description of each one — botanical name, propagation requirements, native habitat — the exact sort of taxonomic catalog that Alma compiles as a child.
这本小册子是35年前写的。又是那位四年级的老师——卡朋特女士，整整一个月的时间里，每天都会带一株不同的盆栽到班上来。小吉尔伯特记录下了每一株的样子、学名、种植方法、国内分布情况——完全是阿尔玛幼年时学会做的分类学目录的雏形。
But there’s one more artifact in her Skybrary that strikes me as an even more significant clue. It’s an original play Gilbert wrote the following year that was staged for her entire school, an event she vividly recalls as her first literary success. Like all things Gilbert, “Mona’s Proof ” is both wildly ambitious and personally revelatory. The play is about a young girl who has the extraordinary power to travel through time. Her parents don’t believe her, a problem she expounds upon in the production’s only song, “Nobody Believes Me, Nobody Cares.”
然而，在“空中图书馆”里还有一件东西，在笔者看来却是更富有意义的一个线索。那是吉尔伯特在写小册子之后那年创作的一出戏，曾在全校公演。谈起自己的首次文学成就，往事历历在目。这出戏叫《蒙娜的证据》(Mona’s Proof)，是部非常个人的励志作品，讲了一个年轻女孩拥有不可思议的时间旅行的能力，而她的父母并不相信她。她把烦恼倾注在整部戏唯一的一首主题歌里：《没有人相信，没有人在意》(Nobody Believes Me, Nobody Cares)。
It doesn’t take a psychoanalyst to notice the parallels. By her own reckoning, Gilbert grew up in a home where she often felt overlooked and underestimated. She had an intimidating older sister and parents who continually pressed her to perform tasks she wasn’t good at and didn’t enjoy. From this well of insecurity would emerge her fascination with heroic figures as well as her own preternatural need for regard.
即使不是心理分析师也能看出这不是巧合。吉尔伯特自己也曾提到，在她的成长中常常感到自己在家中被忽视和低估。她有个强势的姐姐和一对总是在要求她做各种她并不擅长也不喜欢的事情的父母。由于严重地缺乏安全感，她幻想出的女主角往往像自己一样努力地想要得到认同。
The play ends happily, after the heroine returns with a newspaper from the 1800s. It’s hard not to view “The Signature of All Things” as a long-awaited sequel, the indisputably authentic document the author needed to write to arrive at her literary destiny.
这出戏是大团圆结局，女主角带着一份17世纪的报纸回到了家。而《万物的签名》就像是一部等待了多年的续集，是一个作家为到达写作的彼岸必须完成的一份考卷。
“I went back in time and brought back the evidence,” Gilbert says, staring down at the world’s only extant copy of “Mona’s Proof.” In a rare moment of unguarded pride, she permits herself a grin. “Dude, I crushed it.”
“我回到过去，带回了证据，”吉尔伯特说，看着这本世上唯一的一本《蒙娜的证据》，难得地掩饰不住自己的骄傲。她露出了微笑，“伙计，我赢了！”