The antimissile system that the United States deployed in South Korea over China’s objections is close to becoming operational, giving the two allies the capability to defend against missile attacks by the North, the South’s Defense Ministry said on Thursday.
对于美国不顾中国的反对在韩国部署的反导弹系统，韩国国防部周四称，它即将开始运行，让美国的两个盟友具备了防御朝鲜导弹袭击的能力。
The United States deployed the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, known as Thaad, in South Korea in early March, after the North fired four missiles into the Sea of Japan. Beijing has vigorously opposed the system, fearing it could give the American military the ability to quickly detect and track missiles launched in China.
3月初，在朝鲜向日本海发射了四枚导弹后，美国开始在韩国部署末端高空防御系统（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system，简称“萨德”）。北京强烈反对该系统，担心它会让美军有能力迅速发现并跟踪中国发射的导弹。
On Thursday, Moon Sang-gyun, a spokesman for South Korea’s Defense Ministry, said the system would soon go into “actual operation.”
周四，韩国国防部发言人文相均(Moon Sang-gyun)说，该系统很快便会投入“实际运行”。
“The positioning of some equipment means that South Korea and the U.S. have the capability to cope with North Korea’s provocations,” he said, referring to the North’s growing missile capabilities.
“一些设备的部署意味着韩国和美国有能力应对朝鲜的挑衅，”他指的是朝鲜日渐增强的导弹实力。
The comments by Mr. Moon followed remarks by Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., commander of the United States Pacific Command, who told a congressional hearing in Washington on Wednesday that Thaad would become operational “in the coming days.” The United States deployed radar and other crucial components of Thaad in Seongju, 135 miles southeast of Seoul, this week.
在文相均发表这番言论之前，美国太平洋司令部司令、海军上将小哈里·B·哈里斯(Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr.)周三在华盛顿的国会听证会上说，萨德将在“未来几天”开始运行。美国本周在首尔东南135英里（约合220公里）的星州郡部署了萨德系统的雷达和其他关键部分。
Alarmed by the development, China’s Ministry of National Defense said on Thursday that the antimissile system would undermine its own security, underlining Beijing’s persistent concerns about Thaad being placed into operation so close by.
对事态发展感到担忧的中国国防部在周四表示，该反导弹系统会影响它的安全。这突显了北京一直以来对萨德在离自己这么近的地方投入运行的担忧。
“The real goal of the United States and South Korea in deploying Thaad is as a move in the game of the United States’ global antimissile defense system,” Maj. Gen. Cai Jun, a senior officer in the Joint Staff Department of China’s Central Military Commission, said at a news briefing in Moscow on Thursday, the Chinese Ministry of Defense said online. “This will further tighten the Asia-Pacific antimissile barrier enclosing China and Russia, and will weaken their strategic capacities — something we adamantly oppose.”
中国国防部在网上称，中央军委联合参谋部作战局高级官员蔡军少将周四在莫斯科的一个新闻发布会上说，“美韩在韩国部署‘萨德’系统真实目的是为美全球反导系统投棋布子，进一步筑牢围堵中俄的亚太反导隔离墙，削弱中俄的战略能力，我们对此坚决反对。”
General Cai said that broader American antimissile plans “are in fact seeking an absolute unilateral military advantage, and this will exacerbate regional tensions, triggering localized antagonism and even an all-out arms race, and ultimately this will damage global and regional strategic stability.”
蔡军说，美国的整体反导弹计划“实际上是为了谋求绝对的单方军事优势，这将进一步加剧地区紧张局势，引发局部对抗甚至全面军备竞赛，最终破坏全球和地区战略稳定”。
Late Wednesday, a report emerged from North Korea about soaring gas prices and hoarding of fuel in the capital, Pyongyang. The Associated Press, which employs one of the few Western reporters based there, said that a kilogram of gas, which had cost 70 to 80 cents, was now selling for $1.40 at one station, and that the apparent shortage had led to rumors that China was behind the problem.
周三晚上，从朝鲜传出一篇报道，称该国首都平壤出现油价飙升和囤积燃油的情况。美联社(The Associated Press)称，在一家加油站，之前每公斤汽油售价70到80美分，现在是1.40美元。美联社还报道称燃油似乎出现了供应短缺，引发了有关中国是造成这个问题的原因的传言。在朝鲜的西方记者少之又少，其中包括一名美联社的雇员。
The Trump administration has been encouraging Beijing to put economic pressure on North Korea to curtail its nuclear and missile tests, and the Chinese state news media recently hinted that the government would cut off fuel supplies if Pyongyang conducted its sixth atomic detonation.
特朗普政府一直鼓励北京在经济上向朝鲜施压，以限制其核武器和导弹试验。中国官方新闻媒体最近暗示，如果平壤进行第六次原子弹爆炸，政府将切断燃油供应。