SEOUL, South Korea — The United States and South Korea began installing key elements of an advanced missile-defense system in a rural southern county on Wednesday, a day after North Korea held huge artillery drills to mark the 85th anniversary of the founding of its military.
韩国首尔——周三，美国和韩国开始在韩国南部农村的一个郡安装一个先进的导弹防御系统的关键部分。一天前，朝鲜举行了大型炮击演习，庆祝建军85周年。
Work on the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, also known as THAAD, got underway in Seongju, 135 miles southeast of Seoul, while China, which strongly opposes the THAAD system, continued to try to tamp down tensions over signs that North Korea was preparing for a nuclear test.
部署末端高空防御系统（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system，简称“萨德”）的工作在首尔东南135英里（约合220公里）处的星州郡(Seongju)展开，强烈反对该系统的中国则依然试图平息多个显示朝鲜正在筹备核试验的迹象引发的紧张局势。
It remained unclear whether the installation was ahead of schedule; Washington and Seoul have said only that they want THAAD operational “soon” or “within this year.”
尚不清楚安装工作是否提前了，华盛顿和首尔只是说想让萨德“尽快”或“在年内”运行起来。
The deployment has become a key issue in the campaign for the May 9 election to choose the successor to former President Park Geun-hye, who had agreed to the deployment but was forced from office in disgrace last month.
在为5月9日选举前总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)的继任者而进行的竞选中，萨德的部署已经成了一个关键议题。朴槿惠同意部署萨德，但她上月带着耻辱被迫下台。
Moon Jae-in, an opposition leader who is leading the polls, has vowed to review Park’s agreement if he is elected. He accused the United States and South Korea earlier of rushing the deployment to make it “a fait accompli” before a new leader takes office in Seoul.
在民调中领先的反对派领袖文在寅(Moon Jae-in)发誓，如果当选，便会检讨朴槿惠达成的协议。他早前指责美国和韩国仓促部署萨德是为了在新领导人上台前，让它成为“既成事实”。
North Korea’s long-range artillery drills were conducted near Wonsan, along the country’s east coast, according to the South Korean military. They coincided with military maneuvers by the United States and its allies, as well as the arrival of the USS Michigan, a submarine armed with Tomahawk cruise missiles, in the port city of Busan, South Korea.
据韩国军方称，朝鲜的远程炮火演习是在位于该国东部海岸的城市元山附近进行的。演习的时间与美国及其盟友的军事演习，以及搭载了“战斧”(Tomahawk)巡航导弹的潜艇“密歇根号”(Michigan)抵达韩国港口城市釜山的时间重合。
The U.S. Navy described the arrival of the submarine as “routine,” but its presence reflected the heightened military readiness on both sides of the Korean Peninsula. And on Wednesday, the Navy’s 7th Fleet said that a strike group led by the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson was conducting exercises with Japanese forces in the Philippine Sea.
美国海军称“密歇根号”抵达韩国是“例行公事”，但它的出现反映出朝鲜半岛上的双方均提高了战备级别。周三，美国海军第七舰队(7th Fleet)称一个以“卡尔文森号”(Carl Vinson)航空母舰为首的战斗群正在菲律宾海和日本的军队进行演习。
In addition to holding joint naval exercises in the Yellow Sea, the United States and South Korea have been staging military maneuvers in Pocheon, northeast of Seoul, demonstrating some of their latest weapons. A North Korean state newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, said last week that the joint maneuvers were taking the tense situation on the peninsula to the “verge of explosion.”
除在黄海举行联合海军演习外，美国和韩国一直在位于首尔东北方向的抱川进行军事演习，展示了各自的一些最新武器。朝鲜官方报纸《劳动新闻》(Rodong Sinmun)上周称，联合演习把朝鲜半岛上的紧张局势推向了“爆炸的边缘”。
South Korea said Monday that it had developed radar that can detect incoming artillery faster and more accurately than the radar it now uses. The Defense Acquisition Program Administration said the technology, to be deployed by 2018, would not enable the South to intercept the rockets but would allow the military to identify their source more efficiently and strike the launchpads.
韩国周一称已开发出了能够比现有更快、更精确发现袭来的炮弹的雷达。韩国国防采购项目管理局(Defense Acquisition Program Administration)称该技术将在2018年之前部署，并表示它无法让韩国拦截火箭弹，但能够让军方更高效地发现它们的来源并打击相应的发射台。
South Korea remains deeply divided over THAAD, which both Washington and Seoul say is intended to defend South Korea and U.S. troops there from North Korea’s fast-growing nuclear and ballistic missile threats. In Seongju, fierce protests by local villagers and activists arose quickly on Wednesday.
在萨德问题上，韩国国内依然分歧严重。华盛顿和首尔均称萨德是为了帮助韩国和驻韩美军抵御朝鲜日渐严峻的核武器和弹道导弹威胁。在星州郡，当地村民举行了强烈的抗议，活动人士周三也很快站了出来。
Sirens wailed to alert villagers as a convoy of U.S. military vehicles carrying the radar, launchpads, interceptor missiles and other key parts of the THAAD system pulled into Seongju.
在一支运送雷达、发射台、拦截导弹和萨德系统其他关键部分的美国军车队伍进入星州郡时，警报器响起，以提醒村民。
Hundreds of villagers rushed out, shouting slogans against THAAD and blocking the road. But more than 8,000 South Korean police officers quickly overpowered them, removing the protesters and their cars from the road to let the military vehicles pass on their way to an abandoned golf course, the site of the deployment.
数百名村民跑了出来，高喊着反对萨德的口号封住了车队的去路。但8000多名韩国警察迅速制服他们，把抗议者和他们的车从路上赶走，让车队通过，继续前往一个废弃的高尔夫球场。那里正是萨德的部署地点。
On Tuesday, Beijing sent Wu Dawei, a longtime diplomat handling tensions on the Korean Peninsula, to Tokyo for talks with Japanese Foreign Ministry officials in hopes of warding off military confrontation.
周二，北京派长期负责处理朝鲜半岛紧张关系的外交官武大伟前往东京，同日本外务省官员举行会谈，希望避免军事对峙。
China, an ally of North Korea that has become increasingly impatient with its behavior, has tried to play a mediating role. Its president, Xi Jinping, cautioned restraint in a phone call with President Donald Trump on Monday. The question is whether Beijing has enough leverage to avert a detonation at the North’s atomic test site in Punggye-ri, where analysts say preparations for a blast appear to have recently resumed.
作为盟友，中国越来越无法忍受朝鲜的行为。它试图扮演一个调节斡旋的角色。周一与唐纳德·特朗普总统通电话时，中国国家主席习近平告诫各方保持克制。问题是，北京是否有足够的影响力，能够阻止朝鲜在丰溪里核试验场的爆炸。分析人士称，丰溪里的实验准备工作最近似乎已经恢复了。
On Wednesday, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and Defense Secretary Jim Mattis are scheduled to brief the entire U.S. Senate on North Korea at the White House. The briefing will also include Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence, and Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, according to Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary.
周三，美国国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)和国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)被安排在白宫向美国参议院全体成员介绍有关朝鲜的情况。据白宫发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)称，参加这次情况介绍的还有国家情报局局长丹·科茨(Dan Coats)和参谋长联席会议主席小约瑟夫·F·邓福德(Joseph F. Dunford Jr.)。
While administration officials often go to the Capitol to address lawmakers, it is rare for the full Senate to be summoned to the White House.
尽管联邦政府官员常去国会大厦向议员发表演讲，但参议院全体成员被召往白宫的情况颇为罕见。
In China on Wednesday, after days of publicity, the country’s first domestically built aircraft carrier slipped out to sea for the first time. The ship is far from ready for operations, but the launch “signified a major stage of progress of our country’s indigenous design and construction of aircraft carriers,” according to a People’s Liberation Army news bulletin.
在中国，周三当天，经过多日的宣传，该国第一艘自己建造的航空母舰首次下水。这艘航母远远没有做好作战的准备，但人民解放军的新闻公报称，下水“标志着我国自主设计建造航空母舰取得重大阶段性成果”。