SEOUL, South Korea — Despite the recent easing of tensions on the Korean Peninsula, top United States and South Korean nuclear negotiators reaffirmed on Tuesday that there would be no formal negotiations with North Korea until the country showed that it was willing to dismantle its nuclear weapon programs.
韩国首尔——虽然近来朝鲜半岛局势有所缓和，但美国和韩国的高级核谈判专家周二重申，在朝鲜表示愿意捣毁其核武器项目之前，不会与朝鲜举行正式谈判。
“We need to see some sign that they are sincere about what is the central issue of the six-party process, which is the peaceful denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula,” said Glyn T. Davies, Washington’s top envoy to the six-nation talks, which also include North and South Korea, Japan, Russia and China. “Right now, we do not see a positive attitude of North Korea.”
华盛顿向六方会谈派出的高级特别代表格林·T·戴维斯(Glyn T. Davies)说，“我们需要看到一些他们对六方会谈的核心问题有真诚态度的表现，这个核心问题就是朝鲜半岛的和平无核化。现在我们没有看到朝鲜的积极态度。”六方会谈的参与方还包括朝鲜、韩国、日本、俄罗斯和中国。
The six-nation forum, started in 2003 with the aim of ending North Korea’s nuclear weapon development, has been suspended since late 2008. As tensions have eased in Korea in recent months, there have been efforts, notably from China, the host of the six-party talks, to resume them.
六方会谈始于2003年，旨在停止朝鲜的核武器发展项目，自2008年底一直停顿着。随着最近几个月朝鲜半岛局势的缓和，出现了一些重启六方会谈的努力，特别是来自主办国中国。
Mr. Davies planned to visit Beijing and Tokyo this week to continue the discussions on how to bring North Korea back to the negotiations under the terms set down by Washington and its allies.
戴维斯将在本周访问北京和东京，继续讨论如何在美国及其盟友设定的条件下把朝鲜带回谈判桌来。
Tensions peaked on the peninsula this spring, punctuated by the North’s nuclear test in February, the ensuing sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council and the North’s threats of nuclear strikes. But in recent months, they have gradually given way to hopes for dialogue, as the North toned down its warlike rhetoric, restored military hot lines with the South and agreed to restart a jointly run industrial complex, as well as a Red Cross program that reunites Korean families separated by the 1950-53 Korean War.
今年春天朝鲜半岛紧张局势达到顶峰，由于朝鲜在2月份进行了核试验，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)对其加强了制裁，而朝鲜则提出核打击的威胁。但最近几个月来，紧张气氛逐渐被对话的希望所淡化，朝鲜缓和了其战争言论，恢复了与韩国的军事热线，并同意重启朝韩联合运营的工业园，还恢复了红十字会(Red Cross)的一个项目，该项目让在1950-53年朝鲜战争中失散的家庭重聚。
While officials in Seoul welcomed the mellowing mood, they cautioned that their challenge remained unchanged: North Korea has shown no sign of curbing its nuclear weapon program and has indeed declared that it will never negotiate away its nuclear weapons. It has declared itself a nuclear power and insists upon being treated as one in any future six-party talks.
尽管首尔的官员对这一缓和气氛表示欢迎，但他们警告说，他们所面临的挑战依然存在：朝鲜并没有表示出任何要取消核武器项目的迹象，反而宣布永远不会通过谈判来放弃其核武器。朝鲜已经宣布自己是有核国家，并坚持在未来任何一轮六方会谈中都被当作有核国家对待。
That left officials in Seoul and Washington to suspect that North Korea’s recent overtures were merely a replay of its old tactic of creating optimism after tensions. They fear that North Korea is once again trying to trick Washington and the others into negotiating — and eventually haggling — with it in fruitless talks while the country continues to advance its nuclear and long-range missile programs.
这让首尔和华盛顿的官员怀疑朝鲜近期的缓和态度只不过是故技重施，在紧张局势之后制造乐观气氛。他们担心朝鲜试图再次把华盛顿和其他各方骗到谈判桌上，再次陷入徒劳的讨价还价，而与此同时，朝鲜得以继续加强其核武器和远程导弹项目。
“The central goal of six-party talks is denuclarization,” Cho Tae-yong, Mr. Davies’s South Korean counterpart, said after their meeting in Seoul. “The six-party talks can resume only when that is made clear once again and when we determine that the talks can achieve the goal.”
戴维斯在首尔会见了韩国六方会谈代表赵太庸(Cho Tae-yong)，之后赵太庸说，“六方会谈的主要目标是无核化。只有在再次明确这一目标，以及我们确定谈判可以实现这一目标时才能重启六方会谈。”
But some analysts said that Washington and its allies had few options other than engaging North Korea to gauge the intentions of the new North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. There have been no significant signs that sanctions are working to force Pyongyang to give up its nuclear weapons or that China, an important North Korean ally, is using its economic leverage to force a change in the North’s attitude about the weapons.
但是一些分析人士认为，华盛顿及其盟友除了接触朝鲜之外别无选择，只有接触才能让他们对朝鲜新领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的意图有所了解。目前还没有显著迹象表明，制裁措施在迫使平壤放弃核武器上有任何作用，也没有迹象表明朝鲜最重要的盟友中国要用其经济杠杆迫使朝鲜改变其对核武器的态度。