WASHINGTON — Fighter jets roared off an American aircraft carrier into a gray sky on Wednesday as the United States kicked off a joint naval exercise off the west coast of the Korean Peninsula, with the South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, calling for strong punishment if North Korea initiated a military provocation.
华盛顿——本周三，美国在朝鲜半岛西海岸外启动了联合军演，战斗机呼啸着离开美国航母，冲入灰色的天空，与此同时，韩国总统朴槿惠提出，如果朝方发起军事挑衅，各方应严惩朝鲜。
The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, has raised tensions on the divided peninsula in recent weeks by launching a string of rockets and missiles, including its Scud-type ballistic missiles, even as his government took steps toward a possible thaw in relations, like a recent agreement to send a delegation and cheering squad to the Asian Games in South Korea this fall.
最近几周，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)发射了一连串的火箭和导弹，其中包括飞毛腿式弹道导弹，从而激化了分裂的朝鲜半岛上紧张的局势，哪怕与此同时，他手下的政府采取了可能缓和双方关系的举措，比如，朝鲜在最近同意，将派遣代表团和啦啦队参加今秋在韩国举行的亚洲运动会。
Mr. Kim has personally supervised some of these missile tests, which took place close to the border with the South, according to South Korean officials and the North Korean news media. While some leaders were guessing at his intentions, some South Korean analysts feared that the North might attempt military provocations to raise tensions unless the South relaxed its hard-line policy and engaged the North with dialogue and possible economic concessions.
根据韩国官员的描述和朝鲜新闻媒体的报道，金正恩本人监督了其中的部分导弹试验，试验是在接近韩国边境的地带进行的。一些领导人在猜测金正恩的意图，不过，有部分韩国分析人士担忧，除非是韩国能缓和强硬的路线政策，和朝鲜展开对话，或是做出经济上的让步，否则朝鲜可能会试图以军事挑衅来激化朝韩之间紧张的态势。
Speaking to a group of South Korean military leaders, Ms. Park called the North Korean government so unpredictable that it was impossible to foresee its behavior “even an inch ahead.” “If they launch a provocation, I ask you, commanding officers of the military, to retaliate with a strong initial countermeasure,” Ms. Park said Wednesday.
朴槿惠在对一些韩国军方领导人讲话时说，朝鲜政府着实难以捉摸，以至于“连提前一分一秒”预料其行为都不可能。朴槿惠在周三表示，“如果他们发起挑衅，我要求在座的军事指挥官们用强有力的初步反制措施予以回击。”
She also cited international concern that North Korea might attempt another nuclear test.
她还提到，国际社会对朝鲜可能再次进行核试验感到担忧。
About 200 nautical miles off the west coast of South Korea, the United States aircraft carrier George Washington cruised through drizzle as F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter jets screamed off the deck.
美国航母乔治·华盛顿号(George Washington)正顶着毛毛细雨，在距韩国西海岸约200海里的海域巡航，一架架F/A–18“超级大黄蜂”战斗机同时尖啸着飞离甲板。
Officers on board said that the jets conducted 108 sorties from the U.S.S. George Washington on Wednesday alone in an exercise that Rear Adm. Mark C. Montgomery said was designed to bolster the American and South Korean forces’ combined “ability to counter maritime special operations force insertions.”
舰上军官表示，仅在周三一天的演习中，美国乔治·华盛顿号航母就出动了108架次战机，海军少将马克·C·蒙哥马利(Mark C. Montgomery)称此次演习旨在强化美韩部队合力“应对海上特种作战部队切入的能力。”
In recent years, Mr. Kim has overseen the landing drills of North Korea’s armed forces, involving hovercraft, as well as test-firings of its multiple-rocket launchers and artillery amassed near the border with the South.
金正恩近年监督了朝鲜武装力量的许多登陆演习，其中包括使用气垫船，试射多管火箭发射器，并在朝韩边界附近集结了炮兵部队。
The United States Navy’s five-day joint drill with South Korea involves six American ships, a large number of South Korean Navy vessels and United States and South Korean Air Force combat aircraft, both in the seas off the east and west coasts of South Korea, said Admiral Montgomery, commander of the United States Seventh Fleet’s Carrier Strike Group Five operating out of Yokosuka, Japan.
从日本横须贺出发前来参加行动的美国第七舰队第五航母战斗群(United States Seventh Fleet’s Carrier Strike Group Five)指挥官蒙哥马利海军上将表示，参加美国海军与韩国为期五天的联合演习的，有六艘美国船只，大量韩国海军船只，以及美国和韩国空军的战斗机，演习同时在韩国东海岸和西海岸水域进行。
Last Saturday, North Korea called the joint drill “another challenge” against its recent overture to try to ease relations with the South.
上周六，朝鲜称此次联合演习“又一次挑战了”朝方近来缓解朝韩关系的努力。
It called the American warships “a fleet of pirates” with “nuclear strike capabilities” and vowed to strengthen its own “self-defense nuclear power.” The country accused Washington of spoiling a possible thaw between the two Koreas and of coaxing both Japan and South Korea into its “hegemonic” design to contain China and North Korea.
朝鲜称美国军舰为拥有“核打击能力”的“海盗舰队”，并誓称将加强朝鲜自己的“自卫核实力”。朝鲜谴责华盛顿破坏了朝韩两国可能的关系缓解，且引诱日本和韩国参与其遏制中国和朝鲜的“霸权”计划。
The United States-South Korea exercise will be followed by a trilateral naval drill involving the Japanese maritime self-defense forces.
美韩演习结束后，还将有一场三方海军演习，日本的海上自卫队也将参与。