TOKYO — The Japanese government Monday defended the practice of dolphin hunting off its coastline, taking issue with the new American ambassador, Caroline Kennedy, who pointedly criticized its “inhumaneness” in a recent Twitter post.
东京——周一，日本政府为该国在沿海猎捕海豚的做法进行了辩护，反驳了新任美国驻日大使卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)的说法。近日，肯尼迪在Twitter上发帖，对这种做法的“残忍程度”提出了尖锐的批评。
Ms. Kennedy objected to a form of fishing called “drive hunt” killing, in which dolphins are herded together by boats into an area they cannot escape, resulting in the capture of scores, if not hundreds, of dolphins. Critics have called the practice inhumane for the sheer number of dolphins killed and the threat it poses to the animal’s populations.
肯尼迪反对的是一种被称作“围猎”的捕鱼方式。用这种方式捕鱼的时候，海豚会被船只赶到一个无法逃脱的地方，这样一来，被捕获的海豚即便没有数百只，至少也有几十只。由于这种做法会导致大量海豚被杀，还会对海豚族群造成威胁，批评人士都认为这种做法非常残忍。
“Deeply concerned by inhumaneness of drive hunt dolphin killing. USG opposes drive hunt fisheries,” Ms. Kennedy said in her post on Saturday, referring to the United States government’s position on the issue.
“美国政府对围猎的残忍程度深感担心，反对以驱赶式猎杀为手段的渔业，”肯尼迪在她周六的帖子中提到了美国政府对此事的立场。
On Tuesday, responding to the criticism, Japan’s chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, defended the practice.
周二，日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)回应了人们的批评，并对这种做法进行了辩护。
“Dolphin fishing is a form of traditional fishing in our country,” he said, responding to a question about Ms. Kennedy’s criticism. “We will explain Japan’s position to the American side.”
“捕捉海豚是我国传统渔业的一种形式，”他在回答关于肯尼迪的批评的提问时说。“我们会向美国方面解释日本的立场。”
Ms. Kennedy’s decision to wade into the issue came as something of a surprise and could carry extra weight, given her prominence. She took up the post in November, becoming the first woman to serve as ambassador to Japan, and her appointment was seen as particularly significant, given her close ties to President Obama. He benefited from her high-profile endorsement during the 2008 campaign, which gave his candidacy an important early blessing from a leading member of the Kennedy clan.
鉴于肯尼迪的知名度，她干涉此事的决定不仅有些令人吃惊，还可能具有额外的分量。她于去年11月就任，成为了美国的第一位女性驻日大使。由于她与奥巴马总统关系密切，人们认为她获得任命一事具有非同凡响的重要意义。2008年奥巴马竞选总统期间，肯尼迪曾高调支持奥巴马，这样一来，奥巴马在竞选初期就获得了肯尼迪家族一位主要成员举足轻重的支持。
Ms. Kennedy’s remarks came just a month after the United States Embassy in Tokyo expressed its “disappointment” with the decision of the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, to visit the Yasukuni Shrine, which honors the nation’s war dead, including war criminals who were executed after Japan’s defeat. The visit angered China and South Korea, which suffered greatly under Japanese aggression during the first half of the 20th century.
美国驻日大使馆曾表示对日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)参拜靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)的决定感到非常失望，仅在一个月后，肯尼迪就发表了上述言论。靖国神社供奉着日本的阵亡军人，其中包括在日本战败后被处死的战犯。参拜靖国神社的举动激怒了中国和韩国，这两个国家曾在20世纪上半叶日本入侵期间遭受巨大痛苦。
After the shrine visit, Japan’s foreign minister, Fumio Kishida, called Ms. Kennedy during her vacation to explain Mr. Abe’s reasoning for making the visit.
安倍晋三参拜靖国神社之后，日本外相岸田文雄(Fumio Kishida)在肯尼迪休假期间给她打了电话，解释安倍晋三进行参拜的原因。
The practice of drive hunt killing of dolphins has come under increasing criticism, particularly since the 2009 release of the documentary “The Cove,” which won the 2010 Academy Award for best documentary. The movie included graphic scenes of the annual dolphin hunt in Taiji, Japan, which is underway now and has ignited the latest flurry of criticism of the practice.
围猎海豚的做法受到了越来越多的批评，特别是自2009年纪录片《海豚湾》(The Cove)上映以来。《海豚湾》获得了2010年的学院奖(Academy Award)最佳纪录片奖，其中包含日本太地町一年一度的捕杀海豚活动的血腥场景。该地区目前正在进行捕杀活动，由此引发了最近的批评浪潮。
While commercial whaling has been banned worldwide for three decades, a similar prohibition does not apply to smaller sea mammals like dolphins, partly because of opposition from Japan.
世界各国禁止商业捕鲸活动已有30年，类似的禁令并不适用于海豚等体型较小的海洋哺乳动物，部分是因为日本的反对态度。