SEOUL, South Korea — The United States and South Korea wrapped up their annual joint military exercises on Thursday by flying some of their most powerful warplanes in bombing drills in a show of force two days after North Korea fired a ballistic missile over Japan.
韩国首尔——在朝鲜发射了一枚飞过日本上空的弹道导弹两天之后，本周四，美国和韩国以一系列最强大战机的轰炸演习结束了两国一年一度联合军演，对军事实力进行了展示。
Two B-1B supersonic bombers and four F-35 stealth fighter jets from the United States Air Force and Marine Corps joined four South Korean F-15 fighter jets in live-fire bombing exercises over a military range in eastern South Korea, officials said.
官员表示，美国空军和海军陆战队的两架B-1B超音速轰炸机和四架F-35型隐形战机，与韩国四架F-15型战斗机一起，在韩国东南部的一个军事靶场上空进行了实弹演习。
On their way to join the South Korean jets, the American warplanes flew together with two F-15s from Japan’s Self-Defense Forces over waters near the southwestern Japanese island of Kyushu, the United States Pacific Command said in a statement.
美国太平洋司令部在一份声明中表示，在与韩国战机碰头的途中，美国战机与日本自卫队两架F-15飞机一起在日本西南部九州岛附近水域上空飞行了一段时间。
”This complex mission clearly demonstrates our solidarity with our allies and underscores the broadening cooperation to defend against this common regional threat,” said Gen. Terrence J. O’Shaughnessy, commander of the United States Pacific Air Forces, referring to North Korea.
美国太平洋空军司令特伦斯·J·奥肖纳西(Terrence J.O'Shaughnessy)说，“这个复杂的任务清楚表明了我们和盟友团结一致的精神，强调了扩大合作，防御共同的区域性威胁的努力。”
South Korean F-15s conducted a similar bombing drill over the same range on Tuesday, hours after a Hwasong-12 intermediate-range ballistic missile from North Korea flew over northern Japan and splashed into the Pacific after a flight of nearly 1,700 miles.
韩国F-15战机周二在同一个靶场进行了类似的轰炸演习，在那数小时之前，朝鲜的“火星-12”(Hwasong-12)中远程弹道导弹飞过日本北部，在飞行了1700英里（约2700公里）后坠入太平洋。
North Korea’s test on Tuesday represented the first time that one of its missiles had flown over another country. Its leader, Kim Jong-un, said on Wednesday that the test could be a “curtain raiser” for more such tests in the Pacific. The missile test rattled a region increasingly concerned about North Korea’s fast-advancing missile capabilities and its increasingly bold way of demonstrating them.
在周二的试射中，朝鲜的导弹第一次飞过了另一个国家。朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)周三表示，这次试验可能是太平洋地区更多这类试验的“序曲”。该地区对朝鲜快速发展的导弹能力，以及越来越胆大妄为的展示方式感到担心。
Mr. Kim said that he would watch the United States’ actions before deciding whether to conduct more missile tests, including in waters around Guam, an American territory that is home to Andersen Air Force Base, from which the B-1B Lancer bombers participating in the drills on Thursday took off. The F-35 jets flew from an American base in Iwakuni, Japan.
金正恩说，他会看看美国的行动，然后再决定是否进行更多的导弹试验，包括试射到关岛附近的水域，关岛是美国领土，设有空军基地，参加周四演习的B-1B枪骑兵轰炸机就是从那里起飞的。F-35喷气机则是从日本岩国的美军基地飞过去的。
Hours after Mr. Kim’s warning, the United States conducted what it called a previously planned missile-defense test, intercepting a medium-range ballistic missile fired from a Navy guided-missile destroyer off the coast of Hawaii.
就在金正恩发出警告的数小时后，美国按所谓之前的计划进行了一次导弹防御试验，拦截了海军导弹驱逐舰从夏威夷海岸发射的一枚中程弹道导弹。
Also on Wednesday, President Trump declared “talking is not the answer” to resolving the prolonged standoff over North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs. But hours later, when asked by reporters if the United States was out of diplomatic solutions with North Korea, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis replied, “No.”
同样在周三，特朗普总统表示，要解决与朝鲜核计划和导弹计划的长期对峙，“谈判不是解决问题的办法”。不过数小时后，当记者询问国防部长吉姆·马蒂斯(Jim Mattis)，美国是否排除了和朝鲜之间的外交解决方案时，他回答说“没有”。
The Ulchi-Freedom Guardian, the 11-day joint military exercises the United States and South Korea completed on Thursday, involved tens of thousands of American and South Korean troops, although the exercises were conducted largely through computer simulations.
为期11天的美韩联合军事演习“乙支自由卫士”(Ulchi-Freedom Guardian)于周四结束，数以万计的美韩部队参加了这次演习，虽然它主要是通过计算机模拟进行的。
Whenever such joint exercises take place, North Korea accuses the South and the United States of preparing for an invasion and often conducts its own military exercises and missile tests.
每当举行联合演习时，朝鲜就指责韩国和美国是在为入侵做准备，往往会开展自己的军事演习和导弹试验。