SEOUL, South Korea — The United States and South Korea vowed on Tuesday to push for the “strongest possible” resolution at the United Nations Security Council, including new sanctions and the removal of existing loopholes, to punish North Korea for its latest nuclear test.
韩国首尔——周二，美国和韩国誓言将在联合国安理会推动“最强有力的”决议，包括新制裁以及消除现有制裁中的漏洞，以惩罚朝鲜最近的核试验。
The top American and South Korean envoys on North Korea expressed their resolve during a news conference in Seoul, the South’s capital, on Tuesday, speaking shortly after two nuclear-capable supersonic bombers from the United States Air Force base in Guam streaked over the South in a show of force.
美国及韩国的朝鲜问题高级特使周二在韩国首都首尔举行的记者会上表达了他们的决心。在他们的讲话前不久，从美国在关岛的空军基地起飞的两架具有核能力的超音速轰炸机从韩国上空飞过，以此炫耀武力。
The flight by the B-1B bombers demonstrated the United States’ commitment to providing “extended deterrence,” including the threat of using nuclear weapons, to protect the South, said Gen. Vincent K. Brooks, the top American military commander in the country. It was also intended to help counter calls among nationalist politicians and scholars here who contend that the South must arm itself with nuclear weapons.
驻韩美军最高军事指挥官文森特·K·布鲁克斯上将(Vincent K. Brooks)称，B-1B轰炸机的飞行展示了美国致力于用提供“扩展威慑”来保护韩国，包括威胁动用核武器。这也是旨在帮助反驳那些主张韩国必须拥有自己的核武器的民族主义政客和学者们。
On Tuesday, Sung Kim, Washington’s top official dealing with North Korea, and his South Korean counterpart, Kim Hong-kyun, reiterated that the South did not need to build its own nuclear bombs or to reintroduce American tactical atomic bombs that were withdrawn in the early 1990s.
周二，华盛顿方面处理朝鲜问题的高级官员金成(Sung Kim)及韩国的朝鲜问题高级官员金弘筠(Kim Hong-kyun)重申，韩国不需要发展自己的核弹，或重新部署美国的战术原子弹，这些武器在20世纪90年代初已被撤走。
Their intention was “to secure the strongest possible resolution that includes new sanctions as quickly as possible,” Sung Kim said, declining to elaborate on how China, the North’s main ally on the Security Council, would respond. “The situation requires a swift and strong international response.”
他们的打算是，“尽快通过包含新制裁措施的尽可能强大的决议，”金成说，但他拒绝阐述朝鲜在安理会的主要盟友中国会如何反应。“目前的情况需要迅速和强烈的国际反应。”
Kim Hong-kyun said such a resolution would seek to “close the loopholes” in the existing sanctions as well as to place “pressure on North Korea from all directions so that it will no longer be able to operate normally in the international community.”
金弘筠称，这种决议将寻求“堵住（现有制裁的）漏洞”，以及“从各方面对朝鲜施压，使其不能够再在国际社会上正常运转”。
Washington and Seoul insisted on sanctions as the only option until North Korea agreed to return to the negotiating table with a commitment to abandoning nuclear weapons. But the nuclear test on Friday, the most powerful by the North to date, and its recent flurry of missile tests showed that despite years of sanctions, the country was advancing toward its proclaimed goal of fitting its ballistic missiles with nuclear warheads.
华盛顿和首尔坚持认为，制裁是唯一的选择，直到朝鲜同意重返谈判桌，并承诺放弃核武器。但上周五的核试验——迄今为止朝鲜进行的最大规模的测试——以及最近的一系列导弹试射表明，尽管实施了多年的制裁措施，朝鲜仍在向其宣称的、在弹道导弹上安装核弹头的目标继续迈进。
The Security Council in March adopted, with Chinese support, what Washington and Seoul said was the strongest and most effective sanctions resolution ever against North Korea, after its fourth nuclear test in January and its launch of a long-range rocket the next month. Like the previous resolutions, it sought to undermine the North’s ability to raise hard currency to finance its banned weapons activities.
在朝鲜今年1月进行了第四次核试验、以及在一个月后发射了远程火箭之后，安理会于今年3月在中国的支持下，通过了被华盛顿和首尔称为对朝鲜的最强有力、最有效的制裁决议。与以前的决议一样，3月份的决议寻求削弱朝鲜获得硬通货的能力。朝鲜靠硬通货来支持其开发违禁武器的活动。
The resolution called for inspecting all cargo going in and out of the country, banning all weapons trade and expanding the list of individuals facing sanctions.
决议还要求检查所有进出朝鲜的货物，禁止所有武器交易，以及扩大面临制裁的个人的名单。
But critics identified significant loopholes. North Korea was still able to buy oil and sell its coal and iron ore, as long as it was not used to finance the country’s nuclear weapons program — an activity that would be difficult to prove.
但批评者在决议中找到了明显的漏洞。朝鲜仍能够进口石油，也能出售自己的煤炭和铁矿石，只要所得不被用来支持该国的核武器计划，但这很难证明。
The recent statistics on trade between China and North Korea, as well as news reports from their border, indicate that the Chinese still allow a booming network of trade and smuggling across their 870-mile frontier. North Korea is also accused of running fronts based in China or using Chinese middlemen to circumvent the sanctions.
最近的中朝贸易统计数据，以及来自两国边境地区的报道表明，中国仍允许贸易和走私在中朝约1400公里长的边境地带蓬勃发展。朝鲜也被指责在中国境内经营掩护所，或使用中国的中间商来规避制裁。
The resolution in March also did not affect tens of thousands of North Koreans employed in factories, construction projects and logging camps in Africa, China, the Middle East and Russia. Such workers send home $200 million to $300 million a year, most of which, human rights groups contend, ends up in the coffers of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.
今年3月的决议也并未影响朝鲜在非洲、中国、中东及俄罗斯的工厂、建筑工程和伐木场工作的数以万计的朝鲜人。这些工人每年向朝鲜寄回2亿至3亿美元，而人权组织认为其中大部分最后落入了朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的金库里。
The resolution also did not affect North Korean factories making clothes on contract for Chinese companies, an arrangement that has become a growing source of income for Mr. Kim’s government, especially after the South this year closed an industrial park it had run with the North.
该决议同样没有影响到与中国企业签订合同的朝鲜制衣厂。这项合作正成为金正恩政府越来越大的一笔收入来源，尤其是在韩国于今年关闭了与朝鲜合作运营的一个工业园后。
Washington and Seoul said on Tuesday that they would also try to enforce new bilateral sanctions against North Korea. But both have so few trade and other transactions there that their actions would be largely symbolic, analysts said. President Park Geun-hye of South Korea and her diplomats have been visiting countries in Africa and elsewhere in recent months to persuade them to curtail trade ties with the North, offering weapons and trade deals as incentives.
华盛顿和首尔周二表示，他们也会努力实施针对朝鲜的新的双边制裁。分析人士表示，两国与朝鲜的贸易和其他交易微乎其微，所以它们的制裁在很大程度上是象征性的。最近几个月，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)及手下的外交官正在拜访非洲等地的国家，劝说它们限制与朝鲜的贸易关系，并提供武器和贸易协议作为激励。
Siegfried S. Hecker, an American nuclear expert at Stanford University, said the latest nuclear test by the North must be viewed with great concern, given what he called its growing ability to secure nuclear bomb fuel.
斯坦福大学的美国核问题专家西格夫里·S·赫克(Siegfried S. Hecker)表示，考虑到他所说的朝鲜获取核弹燃料能力日益增强的情况，必须对朝鲜最近进行的这次核试验予以高度的重视。
North Korea’s capacity to produce plutonium remains limited to 13 pounds, or approximately one bomb’s worth, a year, he wrote in a paper posted on the website 38 North, which focuses on the country. While the nation’s capacity to produce highly enriched uranium, an alternative bomb fuel, remained highly uncertain, he said the North could add 330 pounds of it, about six bombs’ worth, a year to a current stockpile of perhaps 660 pounds to 880 pounds.
他在去年发布于关注朝鲜信息的38 North网站上的一篇文章中写道，朝鲜生产钚的能力依然仅限于每年13磅，大约为一枚炸弹的用量。尽管外界始终非常不确定朝鲜生产另一种核弹燃料高浓缩铀的能力，但他表示，在目前的大约660至880磅储备的基础上，朝鲜的高浓缩铀年产量可达330磅，即大约六枚核弹用量。