On a recent morning, my run took me past our local bagel shop, just early enough that the blooming scent of carby goodness wafted out the front door and chased me down the street.
近日的一个清晨，跑步时特意取道我们当地的一家百吉饼店，那刚出炉的面食酵香从店门飘出，一直飘荡在我跑过的整条街。
When I got home, I dished out my usual breakfast of plain, full-fat yogurt, topped with fruit (a pear that day) and maple syrup, then typed out the following tweet: “Also pro tip: don’t run past the bagel shop if you don’t plan on stopping for a bagel.”
到家后，拿出常吃的普通早餐，加了水果和枫树糖浆的全脂酸奶（那天是一个梨），而后在推特上写到：“一个小提示：如果你不打算买百吉饼就别（特意）跑过百吉饼店。
My friend Hillary replied: “My husband is roasting an everything bagel right now. It’s torture, the one thing I miss when skipping simple carbs.”
我朋友HILLARY回复道：“我丈夫正在烤百吉饼。这真是一种折磨啊！在我不吃的碳水化合物中最馋就是百吉饼了。”
Such is a benefit of living alone — at least for me. Because I cook for one, I can make whatever I want and not let the scent of a toasting bagel lure me away from what I need to eat to reach my health goals, which right now are to stay lean while training for my sixth marathon, which I’ll run in May.
对我说，这是单身的好处之一。因为只做一人的饭，爱做什么就做什么。不会为烤百吉饼的香味所引诱而背离了为健康而食的目标，保持健康体型也是为参加将在五月举行的马拉松比赛做准备，那将是我（参加过的）第六次马拉松跑了。
Food and singledom is the subject of two recent studies that come down on either side of whether or not bachelorhood does a body good. One found that single people lean toward being skinnier than those who cohabitate. The other found that living with someone means you tend to eat healthier than if you live alone.
饮食和单身是近来研究的两个课题，引发了人们关于单身是否对身体有益的讨论。一方认为：单身者比两人同住的身材更苗条些。但另有研究说，两个人一起生活时吃的才更健康。
The first report, published recently in the Journal of Family Issues, looked at 20 years of data from the 1979 National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, a long-running federal study of Americans who were 14 to 22 when they were first interviewed in 1979. It found that in general, living alone was associated with lower body mass index compared to living with someone else.
第一份研究来源于近期发表在《家庭生活》期刊（的文章）。研究认为：从1979年第一次问卷，联邦政府开始进行一项对14岁到22岁美国青年的长期研究。人们研究了这些针对全美青年长达20年的调查资料后发现：总的来看，单身者比两个人一起生活者有更为低一些的身体质量指数。
The study’s author, Jay D. Teachman, a professor of sociology at Western Washington University, conjectures that married people get into routines, but also that the nonpartnered may have more of an incentive to stay fit and trim because they are in the dating market. Plus, without someone else there to judge, singles “might be more likely to just open the refrigerator and grab a yogurt and call it good,” he said.
报告的作者Jay D. Teachman是Western Washington University社会学教授，他推测：结婚人群已生活程式化，而单身者保持健美体形另一动机是因为他们还在择偶中。再者，没有伴侣就没人议论你，单身者很可能打开冰箱拿出酸奶来吃就行了。
In the other study, published in August in Nutrition Reviews, researchers from the Queensland University of Technology looked at 41 English-language studies that examined the relationship between food intake and living alone. They found that, in general, people who live alone have lower diversity in what they eat and that they eat fewer fruits and vegetables and less fish than people who are partnered.
另一项研究发表在八月份的《营养测评》上。来自昆士兰科技大学的研究者们分析了41份关于食物摄取和单身之间关系的英文研究。他们发现：总体上，单身者与有伴侣者相比，食用食物总类较少，摄取的水果蔬菜和鱼类也较少。
Katherine L. Hanna, the lead researcher on the study and a lecturer at the School of Exercise and Nutrition studies at the university, noted that there were “inconsistencies” between individual studies, and that the group’s findings are a starting point for future research. But she speculates that economic factors may be one reason that single people tend to eat less nutritious food.
这项研究的负责人-锻炼与营养研究学院的讲师Katherine L. Hanna注意到：针对个体的研究与针对群体的研究有不一致之处，而针对群体的研究发现才是将来研究的开端。但她同时也推测：经济因素或许也是单身者较少吃有营养食物的一个原因。
Ultimately, “it really depends on the individual person,” said Katherine W. Bauer, an assistant professor of nutritional sciences at the University of Michigan School of Public Health, who was not involved in either study. “How much importance do they place on healthy eating, regardless of living status?”
密歇根大学公共健康学院的助教Katherine W. Bauer总结道：“这真是取决于个体。（就是说）无论生活状况如何，人们认为健康饮食究竟有多重要？”
I’ve been on both sides of the “living status” line. When I lived with a boyfriend, some of my food choices revolved around compromise: What did I want to eat that would appease him too? After we split and I nearly broke my foot in a marathon, I fell into bad eating habits, sometimes consuming dinners of blue corn nachos doused in cheese, then dipped into salsa and hummus and washed down with two glasses of wine. Why bother making a fancy dinner when it was just me and the dog, who did her part by licking my plate clean when I was through?
两种生活状态我都经历过。和男朋友一起住时，我的一些食物选择得折中：我想吃的什么食物他也喜欢吗？和他分手后，在一次马拉松比赛时我的脚差点儿骨折，那要归咎于不良饮食习惯，有时晚餐是烤干酪辣味玉米片蘸着沙司，鹰嘴豆泥，伴着两杯红酒下肚。只为自己和我的狗而准备一顿丰盛的晚餐值得吗？我的那只狗还会在我吃完后舔干净餐盘呢。
But last spring, when I set out to lose some weight, I did so without someone else watching over my shoulder or asking that I make things that I didn’t want to eat. I felt no pressure to add a side of pasta to my salad, or rice to the bottom of my bean dish, because no one else was there to care. I gave up alcohol for August, too. And while that knocked out some of my typical dating opportunities (going to grab a drink was out, though this knocked out candidates who refused to hang out with me without the aid of alcohol — not really a bad thing), I didn’t need to keep booze in my house because another person wanted it, and therefore I wasn’t tempted by it.
去年春天，在没人监督我或者督促我得做其实并不想吃的食物的情况下，我计划减重了。随意在沙拉旁放些意粉，豆类下面铺层米饭都没问题，因为没人在意。八月时我还戒了酒。尽管这做法搞砸了我的一些所谓“正常的”约会（人们认为出去时喝一杯是约会。尽管因为戒酒，把一些没有酒精的帮助就不和我约会的人拒之了门外，可真不是件坏事。）我无需因别人的需要而在家里备酒，因此也就不存在什么诱惑可言。
I could also experiment with dishes without another person being affected by a recipe failure. And if I did fail, I sometimes did what Dr. Teachman described: I’d just grab some yogurt and call it a night.
没有了因食谱失误也受影响的另一半，我就可以拿食材来“实验”。Teachman博士这样说：“如果我煮砸了就把酸奶当晚餐呗。”
The result: I lost 25 pounds from my peak weight, and now I eat better and drink a lot less alcohol. I’ve kept the weight off too.
结果是：与最重时比我减了25磅。如今吃得更健康，更少喝酒，我还轻多了。
But part of that, I know, is me: I like cooking, and I have an incentive — faster race times — to keep the weight off. I also have easy access to fresh foods, know how to make them taste good and, because I work from home, don’t have a long commute that makes coming home to cook dinner feel like one weight stacked onto the other.
我知道部分原因在于我自身：我喜欢烹饪，（争取）更短一些的竞赛时间是我减重的一个动机。新鲜食材容易得到，也知道怎样使之更美味。再加上我在家办公，免去了（上班族）长距离通勤后还要煮晚饭那种（所谓）双重负担。
“A lot of it is driven by who the person is,” Dr. Bauer said. “It depends on where you’re starting from.” Or, as is the case for me, where I’m going: a faster finish line.
Bauer博士说：“很多因素都取决于个体本身，取决于你的起点。”对我来说，则取决于我的目标：更快一些（跑过）终点线。