SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea and the United States have agreed to use all means, “including sanctions and dialogue,” to try to persuade North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons program, the South’s presidential office said on Tuesday after a meeting with an aide to President Trump.
韩国首尔——在与特朗普总统的一名助手会面之后，韩国总统府周二表示，韩国和美国已达成一致意见，将使用“包括制裁和对话”在内的一切手段，来试图说服朝鲜放弃其核武器计划。
The aide, Matthew Pottinger, the Asia director on the National Security Council, met with Chung Eui-yong, an adviser to the new South Korean president, and other foreign policy aides in Seoul, the capital.
美国国家安全委员会(National Security Council)亚洲事务高级主管马修·波廷格(Matthew Pottinger)与韩国新总统的顾问郑义荣（Chung Eui-yong，音）及其他外交政策助手在首都首尔见了面。
In their meeting at the Blue House, the presidential palace, the two sides followed up on a recent telephone conversation between President Moon Jae-in and Mr. Trump, who agreed to hold a summit meeting in Washington soon.
在他们在青瓦台总统府举行的会议上，双方就文在寅总统与特朗普在最近通话中同意不久将在华盛顿举行两国首脑会议一事做了跟进商讨。
On Tuesday, Mr. Pottinger and Mr. Chung agreed to work toward a summit meeting in late June, said Mr. Moon’s spokesman, Yoon Young-chan.
周二，波廷格和郑义荣同意为在6月下旬举行首脑会议展开工作，文在寅的发言人尹永灿（Yoon Young-chan，音）说。
The two countries also confirmed that Mr. Moon and Mr. Trump share four broad principles in dealing with the North Korean nuclear crisis, Mr. Yoon said.
韩美两国还证实，文在寅和特朗普在处理朝鲜核危机问题上有四项共同原则，尹永灿说。
“First, the ultimate goal is to completely dismantle the North Korean nuclear weapons,” he said. “Second, to that end, both sides will employ all means, including sanctions and dialogue. Third, dialogue with North Korea is possible when the circumstance are right. Fourth, to achieve these goals, South Korea and the United States will pursue drastic and practical joint approaches.”
“首先，最终目标是彻底销毁朝鲜的核武器，”他说。“第二，为达到此目的，双方将采取一切手段，包括制裁和对话。第三，在合适的情况下，与朝鲜进行对话是可能的。第四，为了实现这些目标，韩国和美国将继续探讨果断和切实可行的联合方法。”
Mr. Moon briefly stopped by the meeting to greet Mr. Pottinger, Mr. Yoon said.
尹永灿说，文在寅顺便在会议上短暂露面，向波廷格表示了欢迎。
Mr. Pottinger’s visit came two days after North Korea launched a Hwasong-12 intermediate-range ballistic missile, considered more powerful than any other missile North Korea has deployed. The successful test on Sunday highlighted the North’s growing missile and nuclear threats.
波廷格到访的时间是在朝鲜发射了一枚“火星12型”(Hwasong-12)中程弹道导弹的两天之后，这枚导弹被认为比朝鲜部署过的所有导弹都强大。周日的成功测试凸显了朝鲜日益增长的导弹和核威胁。
Unlike his two conservative predecessors, Mr. Moon, a liberal, has emphasized the importance of dialogue in dealing with North Korea, saying that his predecessors’ hard line, which focused on sanctions, had failed to prevent the North from expanding its nuclear weapons and missiles arsenal.
与他的两位保守派前任不同，自由派的文在寅一直强调对话在对付朝鲜上的重要性，他说，他的前任们强调制裁的强硬路线并没能阻止朝鲜扩大其核武库和导弹武库。
Mr. Moon has said that he would meet with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, if the circumstances were right.
文在寅已表示，如果情况适当，他愿意与朝鲜领导人金正恩会面。