BEIJING — A top American military commander said Saturday that the United States Army was working to start a formal dialogue and exchange program with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army before the end of the year.
北京——一名美国高级军官周六表示，美国陆军正努力在年底之前与中国人民解放军开启正式对话和交流项目。
The commander, Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the Army chief of staff, told reporters at a news conference in Beijing that the program was aimed at expanding cooperation and “managing differences constructively.”
美国陆军参谋长雷蒙德·T·奥迪耶诺上将(Gen. Raymond T. Odierno)在北京的新闻发布会上告诉记者，该项目旨在扩大合作，“以建设性的方式管理分歧。”
“It really is about us focusing on a long-term relationship and the importance of us conducting exchanges, conducting institutional visits,” he said. General Odierno made his remarks at the United States Embassy on the second day of a visit to China. The general met with Chinese counterparts in Beijing on Friday and departed China on Saturday night after a visit to the Shenyang Military Regional Command in the northeast. He was hosted there by Lt. Gen. Wang Jiaocheng, the regional commander. Together they visited an engineer regiment from the 40th Group Army.
“这实际上是为了专注于我们之间的长期关系，也关系到开展交流和机制性访问的重要性，”他说。奥迪耶诺上将于访华的第二天在美国大使馆发表了上述讲话。他于周五在北京与中国军方领导人见了面，并于周六晚间离开了中国。奥迪耶诺还参观了中国东北的沈阳军区。在那里，他受到了沈阳军区总司令王教成的接待。两人共同参观了第40集团军的一个工程团。
General Odierno said the formal dialogue between American and Chinese army officials would include discussions of humanitarian relief, disaster management and peacekeeping operations. The two armies could have exchanges at institutional levels like that of training and doctrine commands, he said.
奥迪耶诺上将说，美国和中国军方官员的正式对话将包括对人道主义救援、灾害管理和维和行动等问题的讨论。他说，两国军方将在训练及战略教学等机制层面上开展交流。
A date for the first formal meeting in the program has not been set, but General Odierno said some military officials who had come to China with him would stay to work on details. He said he hoped a date would be set during an expected visit to China in April by Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel.
该项目首次正式会议的日期还没有定下来，但奥迪耶诺上将说，和他同行的一些军方官员将会留下来，商讨细节。他说，他希望在国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)4月访华期间，双方可以敲定一个日期。
The general said his visit was focused solely on laying the groundwork for senior-level exchanges between the two armies, and he said he assumed other branches of the American military would try to build similar programs with their Chinese counterparts.
奥迪耶诺上将表示，他的访华之行只有一个目的，那就是为两军的高层互访铺平道路。他说，他认为，美军的其他军种也将努力与对应的中国军方机构建立类似的项目。
In recent years, American officials have said that ties between the militaries are weak and far below the level of ties between the United States and the Soviet Union during the height of the Cold War. This has led to growing anxieties among American military leaders.
美国官员最近几年曾表示，两国军方之间关系脆弱，甚至远不及冷战白热化期间，美国和苏联的关系水平，而这已经让美国军方领导人的焦虑感日益强烈。
Tensions among nations with a military presence in the Western Pacific have been on the rise in recent years. The United States is still the dominant military power in the region, and will be so for years to come, but China is rapidly building up its armed forces. Chinese officials and those of other Asian nations regularly trade sharp words over territorial disputes in the East China Sea and South China Sea.
在西太平洋拥有军事存在的各国之间的紧张关系最近几年一直在升温。美国仍然是该地区占主导地位的军事强国，未来一些年也将如此，但中国正在迅速强化军事实力。中国和其他亚洲国家常常因为在东海和南海上的领土争议而恶语相向。
The United States has said it does not take sides in the disputes, but wants to maintain freedom of navigation in the region and, more recently, has insisted that China clarify or adjust its claims in the South China Sea to ensure they are consistent with international law.
美国曾表示，在领土争议问题上不站队，但想要保持在该地区自由航行的权利。在最近一段时间，美国坚持让中国澄清或者调整其在南海的主权主张，以确保这些主张符合国际法的规定。
American officials have said the territorial claims must be based on land features, an assertion that negates an expansive map often called the “nine dashes” or “cow’s tongue” that the Kuomintang government of China created in the early 20th century to demarcate Chinese sovereignty in the South China Sea. Some Chinese officials in the Communist-run government continue to use that map to delineate China’s current claims.
美国官员曾表示，领土主张必须以国土特征为基础。这种说法否定了一个通常被称为“九段线”或“牛舌线”的国界线划定的庞大疆域。该图是由中国的国民党政府在20世纪早期绘制的，目的是划定中国在南海的领土主权。目前，在中国共产党领导的政府中，一些官员仍然使用这张图来宣示中国目前的主权主张。
Vietnam and the Philippines have been the most vocal opponents of Chinese claims in the South China Sea.
越南和菲律宾一直激烈反对中国在南海的一些领土主张。
Last month, Xinhua, the state news agency, reported that a three-ship flotilla from China performed an oath-taking ceremony on Jan. 26 by Zengmu Reef, a feature at the southernmost tip of the territory bounded by the nine dashes on the Republican-era map. Malaysia and some other nations call the feature James Shoal, and a Malaysian admiral said that, contrary to the Xinhua report, Chinese ships did not patrol in that area, which falls in what Malaysia calls its exclusive economic zone.
国有媒体新华社上个月报道说，由三艘中国舰只组成的舰队1月26日在曾母暗沙海域举行了宣誓仪式。曾母暗沙位于九段线图划定的中国领土范围的最南端。马来西亚和一些其他国家将其称为“詹姆斯暗沙”(James Shoal)。马来西亚的一名海军司令说，与新华社报道的内容相反，中国的舰只没有在这片地区巡航。马来西亚称曾母暗沙所在的区域是其专属经济区。
American officials have raised concerns over a maritime encounter in December in which a Chinese vessel came within 200 yards of the Cowpens, a Navy cruiser, in the South China Sea.
美国官员对去年12月发生的海上事故表示关切，当时一艘中国船舰在南海险些与美国海军“考本斯号”(Cowpens)巡洋舰相撞，两者最近相距200码（约合183米）。
To the north, China and Japan are engaged in a diplomatic struggle over the status of a group of islands in the East China Sea that are known to the Japanese as the Senkaku and to the Chinese as the Diaoyu. Japan is the closest military ally of the United States in the Western Pacific.
在北边，中国和日本因为东海的一些岛屿的归属问题陷入了外交斗争，日本称这些岛屿为尖阁诸岛(Senkaku)，中国称之为钓鱼岛。目前，日本是美国在西太平洋地区最亲密的军事盟友。
Last week, Capt. James Fanell, director of intelligence of the Pacific Fleet, said the goal of war games held by China last year was to train for seizing the islands, which are uninhabited but are administered by Japan, though American military officials later played down those remarks.
上周，太平洋舰队(Pacific Fleet)情报主任詹姆斯·法内尔(James Fanell)上校表示，中国去年开展军事演习是为控制这些岛屿进行训练，它们目前由日本掌控。但美国军方官员后来淡化了这些言论。
China alarmed Japan, South Korea and the United States in late 2013 when it declared an Air Defense Identification Zone over a significant part of the East China Sea, requiring all aircraft entering the zone to provide identification and flight plans. United States officials have ordered American military aircraft to fly through the area without acknowledging China’s new designation. Some officials are asking when China might establish a similar air zone in the South China Sea.
中国在2013年年底宣布在东海重要区域设立防空识别区，要求所有飞机进入该区域之前自报身份并提供飞行计划，此举引起日本、韩国和美国的警觉。美国官员不承认中国新设立的识别区，并命令美国军用飞机飞越该区域。一些官员在询问中国何时会在南海设立类似的防空识别区。
General Odierno said Saturday that a formal high-level army-to-army exchange would be helpful because “throughout history, miscalculation is what has caused conflict.”
周六，奥迪耶诺上将表示，正式的军队高层交流活动会起到帮助作用，因为“纵观历史，冲突常常是由误判所引发的。”
On Friday, any tensions simmering beneath the surface of American-Chinese military relations were subsumed by a day of pomp, giddy meet-and-greets and effusive mutual praise from General Odierno and the Chinese counterparts he met in the capital. The day began with the pageantry of a troop review and full military honors at China’s Defense Ministry headquarters, and General Odierno later attended a closed-door meeting with students and scholars at Peking University. He told reporters Saturday that he had spoken to 30 to 40 students there.
周五，奥迪耶诺上将与中国军方领导人在北京举行了会晤，双方极尽溢美之词，而在让人头晕眼花的问候寒暄和仪式的背后，美中军事关系的紧张局势正在不断发酵。双方首先在中国国防部总部的举行了盛大的阅兵仪式，奥迪耶诺上将后来来到北京大学与学生和学者们举行了闭门会议。他在周六告诉记者，他在北大向30至40名学生发表了讲话。
Among the military leaders he met on Friday were Gen. Fang Fenghui, chief of the general staff of the People’s Liberation Army; Gen. Wang Ning, the army’s deputy chief staff; and Gen. Fan Changlong, a vice chairman of the Central Military Commission, which oversees the armed forces.
奥迪耶诺上将周五会见的军队领导人包括人民解放军总参谋长房峰辉上将，副总参谋长王宁中将和中央军事委员会副主席范长龙。在中国，中央军委负责领导武装部队。
Neither Chinese nor American officials took questions from reporters on Friday, but they allowed journalists a peek into the tightly scripted exchanges, which, in the indoor sessions, involved the two sides’ facing one another at long tables inside the hulking headquarters of the Chinese Defense Ministry in western Beijing.
中美官员周五都没有接受记者提问，但他们允许记者拍摄这场照本宣科式的活动，双方在国防部位于北京西部的庞大的总部大楼里举行了室内会议，双方代表分别坐在长桌的两旁。
After reviewing Chinese troops, General Odierno described them as “incredibly professional” and “wonderful.” Later, during his meeting with General Fang, he said: “It’s been very encouraging and made very clear to me the importance that you place on collaboration and cooperation. And I think that is the key.”
在检阅完中国军队之后，奥迪耶诺上将称他们“非常专业”，“很棒”。后来，他在与房峰辉上将举行会晤期间表示，“我明确地感觉到你们非常重视双方的合作，这让我倍受鼓舞。我认为这是关键所在。”
At another point, General Fan, the officer on the military commission, cited joint peacekeeping missions and “education” as goals for the two armies and, like General Odierno, referred to meetings between President Xi Jinping of China and President Obama last year as having set a foundation for exchanges between the two military forces.
在另一场会晤中，中央军委副主席范长龙上将称两军合作的目的是开展联合维和任务和“教育”交流活动，他像奥迪耶诺上将一样，称中国国家主席习近平与美国总统奥巴马去年举行的会谈为两军开展交流奠定了基础。
“We have had substantive discussions on how we will bring forward our military-to-military relationships,” General Fan said. “And as I said earlier, following the example that was set by President Xi and President Obama in their discussions and the importance of increasing the dialogue between our nations, I think it’s important that the military-to-military dialogue takes a positive step forward.”
“我们就如何推进两军关系进行了实质性讨论，”范长龙上将说，“正如我早前说的那样，我们会效仿习近平主席和奥巴马总统会谈时树立的典范，重视加强两国交流，我认为推动两军对话积极向前发展非常重要。”