SEOUL, South Korea — The United States military plans to complete the deployment of an advanced missile-defense system in South Korea on Thursday, days after North Korea detonated what it called a missile-delivered hydrogen bomb in an underground nuclear test, the South Korean Defense Ministry said.
韩国首尔——韩国国防部表示，美国军方计划在周四完成在韩国部署先进的导弹防御系统，就在几天前，朝鲜在一个地下核试验场引爆了其称之为可用导弹发射的氢弹。
Despite angry protests from China, Seoul and Washington have agreed to push ahead with the deployment of the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system, or Thaad, which they said was designed to protect South Korean and American troops from possible missile attacks from North Korea.
尽管中国强烈抗议，但首尔和华盛顿还是同意加紧部署末端高空防御系统（Terminal High Altitude Area Defense system，简称“萨德”），他们说该系统是为了保护韩国以及在韩美军不受来自朝鲜的导弹袭击。
China has vehemently opposed the Thaad deployment, arguing that it would exacerbate tensions with North Korea and could undermine China’s own nuclear deterrent by giving the United States another means to monitor its missiles. Angry Chinese have boycotted South Korean cars and cultural offerings, like TV dramas.
中国一直强烈反对部署萨德，认为该系统会加剧与朝鲜的紧张关系，并且会通过让美国获得另一种监控中国导弹的手段，破坏中国本身的核威慑力。愤怒的中国人对来自韩国的汽车和电视剧等文化产品予以抵制。
Villagers in Seongju, South Korea, where a Thaad battery was to be installed, also opposed the deployment, fearing that the powerful radar would hurt their health, a concern the Defense Ministry said was scientifically groundless. Joining forces with the farmers were political activists who argued that the Thaad deployment would only increase military tensions on the Korean Peninsula.
萨德系统将安装在韩国星州郡，那里的农民也反对部署，担心强大的雷达会对他们的健康造成伤害。韩国国防部说，这种担忧没有科学依据。政治活动人士也与农民联手反对，认为部署萨德只会加剧朝鲜半岛的军事紧张局势。
In April, the United States installed the radar and two of the six interceptor-missile launchers of the Thaad battery on an abandoned hilltop golf course in Seongju, 135 miles southeast of Seoul, the capital. The battery became operational immediately.
今年4月，美国在韩国首都首尔东南135英里（约220公里）的星州郡一个废弃高尔夫球场的山顶上，安装了萨德的一套雷达和用来拦截导弹的六个发射车中的两个，并马上将其投入使用。
On Wednesday, the Defense Ministry said the remaining four launchers would be installed on Thursday in response to “North Korea’s advancing nuclear and missile threats.”
韩国国防部周三说，将在周四安装其余四个发射车，以应对“朝鲜不断增长的核威胁和导弹威胁”。
As word of the planned deployment spread, Seongju villagers blocked roads with farm equipment to stop military vehicles from carrying additional equipment to the Thaad base.
随着萨德部署计划消息的传来，星州郡村民们用农机设备堵塞了道路，以阻止军车向萨德基地运送更多的装备。
South Korea and the United States agreed in July 2016 to the Thaad deployment.
韩国和美国在2016年7月达成了部署萨德的协议。
During his election campaign, President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, then a liberal opposition leader, cast doubt on the usefulness of Thaad and said he would review South Korea’s decision to accept its deployment. After taking office in May, he suspended the installation of the four remaining launchers while ordering a study on the environmental impact of the deployment.
作为自由派反对党领袖参加总统竞选期间，韩国总统文在寅曾对萨德是否有用表示怀疑，并说将评估韩国接受部署萨德的决定。他在今年5月份上任后，曾暂停安装尚未到位的四个发射车，同时下令研究部署萨德对环境的影响。
But after North Korea conducted two intercontinental ballistic missile tests last month, he ordered his government to cooperate with the United States in installing the remaining launchers.
但是，在朝鲜7月份进行了两次洲际弹道导弹试验之后，文在寅下令政府与美国合作安装其余的萨德发射车。
Mr. Moon promised the installation would happen quickly when he talked to President Trump on the phone on Monday, a day after North Korea conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test.
在朝鲜进行了第六次、也是最强大的一次核试验一天后，文在寅与特朗普总统周一通电话时承诺，部署工作将很快开始进行。