The bond between dealer and artist can be a kind of love affair, with its attendant passions and confidences, interests and intrigues.
艺术家和交易商的关系有时就像是恋爱，伴随着激情和信任、利益和阴谋。
Such was the case with the sculptor Alexander Calder and Klaus G. Perls, who represented him from 1954 until Calder’s death in 1976. The two frequently dined and traveled together, and visited each other’s families. When Calder came to Manhattan, he often stayed at Perls’s Madison Avenue townhouse.
雕塑家亚历山大·考尔德(Alexander Calder)和克劳斯·G·珀尔斯(Klaus G. Perls)之间就是这种关系。帕尔斯从1954年成为考尔德的代理，直到1976年考尔德去世。两人经常聚餐、一起旅游，拜访彼此的家人。考尔德来曼哈顿时，大多待在珀尔斯在麦迪逊大街的住所。
“He trusted him completely,” said Calder’s grandson Alexander S. C. Rower, who added that he himself considered Perls and his wife, Amelia, “a dear aunt and uncle.”
“他完全信任他，”考尔德的外孙亚历山大·S·C·若厄(Alexander S.C. Rower)说。若厄还称，自己也把珀尔斯和他的妻子阿梅莉亚(Amelia)当成“很亲的叔叔阿姨”。
But now that bond has dissolved into a bitter dispute between the families of the two men.
但是现在，这种关系已然消逝，变成了两个家族之间的激烈纠纷。
In a recently amended complaint filed in New York State Supreme Court, the Calder estate says the Perlses surreptitiously held on to hundreds of Calder’s works and swindled the artist’s estate out of tens of millions of dollars. Perhaps most surprising, it says that Perls, a dealer with a sterling reputation who campaigned to rid his industry of forgeries, sold dozens of fake Calders. The suit depicts Perls as a tax cheat who stashed millions of dollars in a Swiss bank account, a secret his daughter said she maintained by paying off a former gallery employee with $5 million. She added that Calder had his own hidden Swiss account.
在最近提交到纽约州最高法院的一份修改后的起诉书中，考尔德遗产管理机构称，珀尔斯家族私下将考尔德的数百件作品据为自有，骗取了继承人数千万美元。也许最让人大跌眼镜的是，该机构还称，曾在行业内呼吁杜绝赝品、拥有极佳声誉的交易商珀尔斯，出售过几十件仿造的考尔德作品。起诉书将珀尔斯描述成一个偷税漏税的骗子，在一个瑞士银行账户里藏匿了成百上千万美元。珀尔斯的女儿则表示，她给了画廊的一名前雇员500万美元（约合3000万元人民币）来保守这个秘密。她还说，考尔德也有自己的瑞士银行秘密账户。
Mr. Rower, seated in the Chelsea headquarters of the Calder Foundation, surrounded by small black-and-red maquettes made by his grandfather, reflected on the case one recent afternoon. “It’s really kind of heartbreaking that they turned out to be thieves,” he said of Klaus and Amelia Perls.
不久前的一天下午，若厄坐在考尔德基金会(Calder Foundation)在纽约切尔西的总部，谈起自己对这起案件的看法。他的身边摆满了外祖父创作的黑红相间的小型艺术品模型。谈到珀尔斯夫妇，他说，“最后发现他们竟然是贼，真是有点让人心碎。”
Steven W. Wolfe, a lawyer for the Perls side, declined to comment, saying a judge’s ruling on pending motions was imminent. But in court papers, he described the Calder lawsuit as a “sham and manufactured claim.” He characterized it as a fishing expedition, one that is finding only the sort of gaps in records that are normal when tracking 25-year-old transactions from a gallery that has been closed for more than 15 years. The Perls family has asked the court to dismiss the case, also arguing that the statute of limitations has expired.
珀尔斯家族的律师史蒂文·W·沃尔夫(Steven W. Wolfe)拒绝置评，只是说到法官即将就未决动议做出裁决。不过，在诉讼文件中，沃尔夫称考尔德家人的诉讼要求“是虚假和捏造的”。他认为，那是不当调查，只发现了纪录中的某些缺漏，而在对一家关门已超过15年的画廊进行25年前的交易追踪时，发现这些缺漏实属正常。珀尔斯家族要求法院不予受理，理由还包括已过诉讼时效。
That this close partnership has devolved into a lawsuit is a sorrowful development. While Calder is renowned as one of the 20th century’s most innovative artists, Perls has his own corner in the history of modern art. He was a pioneering collector of African art, and donated dozens of those pieces, as well as $60 million worth of masterworks by Modernists like Picasso and Modigliani, to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
考尔德和珀尔斯之间亲密的合作关系演化为一场法律诉讼，是一个令人心酸的变化。考尔德是20世纪最具创造性的艺术家之一，而珀尔斯在现代艺术史中也占据了一席之地。他是非洲艺术品收藏的先驱，生前将几十件非洲藏品、以及毕加索(Picasso)和莫迪利亚尼(Modigliani)等现代主义艺术家价值6000万美元的杰作捐赠给了大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)。
When Perls died five years ago, at the age of 96, that museum’s director called him “a connoisseur and a scholar,” a “distinguished honorary trustee, donor and friend.”
珀尔斯于五年前去世，享年96岁，当时大都会博物馆馆长称他是“一位鉴赏家和学者”、“杰出的荣誉董事、捐赠人和朋友”。
Although many of the most surprising accusations surfaced in additional papers filed over the summer, the legal dispute began three years ago with a chance discovery. In 2010, a Canadian gallery contacted the Calder Foundation, of which Mr. Rower is chairman, about a $1.5 million wooden mobile titled “Standing Constellation.” It had been purchased from the Perls Foundation, a trust set up after the Perls Gallery closed in 1997. Mr. Rower said he was puzzled because “Standing Constellation” had not been listed on an inventory of holdings provided by the Perls Gallery after Calder’s death, nor had the Calder estate received any payment from its sale.
很多最令人惊讶的指控是通过今年夏天提交的补充文件中浮出水面的，但这起法律纠纷其实源于三年前一次不经意的发现。2010年，加拿大一家画廊联系到若厄担任主席的考尔德基金会，咨询一件价值150万美元可移动木雕塑《站立的星群》(Standing Constellation)。画廊是从珀尔斯基金会(Perls Foundation)——珀尔斯画廊1997年关门后建立的一家信托机构——那里购得这件艺术品的。若厄说，他觉得有些疑惑，因为在考尔德去世后珀尔斯画廊提供的藏品清单中，并没有列出《站立的星群》，考尔德遗产管理机构也没有收到任何出售这件艺术品所得的收入。
Mr. Rower, who has spent more than 15 years compiling the definitive catalog of Calder’s work, examined the Calder Foundation’s provenance records and said he found several other works in the Perls inventory that were later sold without the estate’s knowledge. Many were listed as being consigned by a woman in Switzerland known only as “Madame Andre.”
若厄花了超过15年时间来编纂一份考尔德作品的权威目录。查阅了考尔德基金的作品出处记录后，他声称自己发现，在珀尔斯的存目中还有好几件作品后来都在考尔德遗产管理机构不知情的情况下被出售。很多交易列出的经手人是一名瑞士女性，外界只知道她叫“安德烈夫人”(Madame Andre)。
Mr. Rower said he was already frustrated with the dealer’s family because it had not turned over a large bundle of archives, drawings and monogramming tools used by Calder to sign his works that Amelia Perls, who died in 2002, had previously promised in a letter to give him. So in 2010, the Calder family sued the Perls estate; the dealer’s daughter, Katherine Perls; and “Madame Andre” for the archives and the works missing from the inventory.
若厄称，珀尔斯家族没能交还一大堆档案文件、绘画以及考尔德用来在作品上签名的花押工具。2002年去世的阿梅莉亚·珀尔斯生前曾在一封信中承诺会将这些物品交于若厄。由于这个原因，他本已对珀尔斯家族有所不满。因此，在2010年，为了追索档案文件及画廊存目中消失的作品，考尔德家族起诉了珀尔斯遗产管理机构、珀尔斯的女儿凯瑟琳·珀尔斯(Katherine Perls)，以及“安德烈夫人”。
As the estate began to dig, however, it made several discoveries.
不过，考尔德遗产管理机构开始调查后，有了几项发现。
First, “Standing Constellation” was only one of nearly 700 Calder bronze sculptures, jewelry and other works worth well in excess of $20 million that had been in the Perlses’ hands and are unaccounted for, court papers say.
诉讼文件中称，首先，珀尔斯经手了近700件未列入目录的考尔德青铜雕塑与珠宝等作品，总价值超过2000万美元，而《站立的星群》仅为其中之一。
The Calder estate also learned that the gallery kept at least two sets of books — a practice that the Perls side said was not unusual. Then it came out that the mysterious “Madame Andre” was not a person at all, but a nickname for the Perls Swiss bank account. As Katherine Perls acknowledged in an affidavit, “Madame Andre” was a euphemism for her father’s Swiss account, “perhaps even a humorous or shorthand reference for this account, or to avoid disclosing to others who were present that he did have this Swiss account.”
考尔德遗产管理机构还得知，珀尔斯画廊至少有两套账簿。珀尔斯方面表示，这并非什么不寻常的做法。后来又有一个秘密被曝光，神秘的“安德烈夫人”根本不是活生生的人，而是珀尔斯瑞士银行账户的代称。凯瑟琳·珀尔斯在书面证词中称，“安德烈夫人”是父亲瑞士账户的委婉说法，“甚至是一种对账户的玩笑或简称，要不就是为了避免告诉在场的其他人，他的确拥有这个瑞士账户。”
Ms. Perls added that Calder, too, kept a Swiss bank account, to which Perls regularly transferred the artist’s profits. In court papers, Mr. Wolfe, the Perls lawyer, said, “Alexander Calder and Klaus Perls were kindred spirits in that they both had an aversion to paying taxes.”
凯瑟琳·珀尔斯还称，考尔德本人也拥有一个瑞士银行账户，而珀尔斯经常把考尔德的收入汇到那里。诉讼文件中，珀尔斯方面的律师沃尔夫称，“亚历山大·考尔德和克劳斯·珀尔斯想法类似，都讨厌缴税。”
Mr. Rower said that he has found no record of such an account and that the estate has never received any assets from it.
若厄表示，他没有发现存在这种账户的记录，考尔德遗产管理机构也从未从中获得任何资产。
Ms. Perls, in a deposition, dismissed the assertion that her family had hidden anything from Calder or his estate. While the original ledgers are missing, she said a copy shows that, in 1970, Calder gave “Standing Constellation” to her mother as a gift.
凯瑟琳·珀尔斯在证词中否认她的家族对考尔德及其遗产管理机构有任何隐瞒。尽管原始账簿已经丢失，但她表示，有份复印文件显示，考尔德于1970年将《站立的星群》作为礼物赠送给了她的母亲。
Ms. Perls has acknowledged that when a gallery employee, Douglas Mayhew, sued the family for severance worth $10 million in 2005, she feared he would reveal the hidden accounts in Switzerland to the I.R.S. and expose her aged father. As a result, she said, she agreed to pay Mr. Mayhew $5 million after taxes. According to court papers, she said she believed she was “being blackmailed.” Michael R. Gordon, Mr. Mayhew’s lawyer, declined to comment.
凯瑟琳·珀尔斯承认，2005年，画廊雇员道格拉斯·梅休(Douglas Mayhew)状告珀尔斯家族，索要价值1000万美元的遣散费。她担心此人会向国税局(IRS)揭发瑞士的秘密账户，让年迈的父亲曝光。因此，她同意支付给梅休税后500万美元。诉讼文件显示，她称自认为“被勒索了”。梅休的代表律师迈克尔·R·戈登(Michael R. Gordon)表示无可奉告。
When the government instituted a tax amnesty program in 2009 for Americans who were hiding money in offshore accounts, the Perls estate applied, court papers show, and a settlement was reached.
2009年，美国政府开始面向在海外账户隐瞒资产的美国公民施行一项税务大赦计划。诉讼文件显示，珀尔斯遗产管理机构提出了申请并与当局达成了和解。
Mr. Rower said the disturbing discoveries continued. In a deposition, Mr. Mayhew said that the Perls Gallery had sold approximately 30 fake Calders. Mr. Rower said that he is not sure whether such sales were intentional but that he knows the gallery had to settle some claims related to the sale of counterfeits in the 1980s.
若厄表示，令人不安的发现陆续呈现。梅休在证词中称，珀尔斯画廊售出了约30件考尔德赝品。若厄则称，他不清楚这些销售是否有意为之，不过他知道，上世纪八十年代，珀尔斯画廊不得不和解了一些与出售赝品有关的案件。
“I was in there when someone walked in who had bought a fake,” Mr. Rower recalled.
“有一次，买了假货的人走进画廊的时候我就在现场，”若厄回忆道。
But the number of these sales astounded him. By going through the foundation’s records and analyzing photographs of supposed Calder works, some of which were linked to known forgers, he said he has determined that the gallery handled at least 61 counterfeits.
然而，赝品的数量之多让他大吃一惊。他查阅了基金会的记录，并分析了一些所谓考尔德作品的图片，其中部分出自知名的造假专家之手。他最后认定，珀尔斯画廊经手了至少61件赝品。
Ms. Perls said in a deposition that she is convinced that her father never knowingly sold any fakes.
凯瑟琳·珀尔斯在证词中表示，她确信父亲从未有意出售任何赝品。
The Calder estate’s lawsuit contends that some illicit proceeds — from the sale of counterfeits and misappropriated Calder originals — were used to purchase the modern and African art that Perls gave to the Met, although the papers do not contain any specific evidence. The museum declined to comment.
考尔德遗产管理机构在诉状中认为，珀尔斯捐赠给大都会博物馆的现代与非洲艺术品，在购买的时候利用了部分非法收益，其中包括出售赝品和盗用考德尔原作的收入。不过，诉状中并未列出任何详细的证据。大都会博物馆拒绝置评。
James Goodman, a veteran dealer who was one of the founders, with Perls, of the Art Dealers Association of America, said he remains skeptical of the accusations, adding he always knew Klaus Perls to be an honorable dealer.
资深艺术品交易商詹姆斯·古德曼(James Goodman)曾与珀尔斯等人一起创立了美国艺术经销商协会(Art Dealers Association of America)。他表示，自己仍然对这些指控心存疑虑，而且他所认识的克劳斯·珀尔斯一直是名体面的交易商。
Mr. Rower says he came to his conclusion about Perls reluctantly. “It gives me no pleasure to talk about this,” he said, but “there is just example after example after example after example of misdeeds.”
若厄则表示，自己也不愿意对珀尔斯下这样的结论。“谈论这些事情的时候，我一点也不高兴，”他说，“但一桩又一桩、一次又一次的不法行为浮出了水面。”