Facing a storm of criticism over its plan to show a documentary about the widely debunked link between vaccines and autism, the Tribeca Film Festival on Saturday pulled the film from its schedule next month.
周六，面对猛烈批评，翠贝卡电影节(Tribeca Film Festival)把一部被广泛批驳的疫苗和自闭症之间存在联系的纪录片从下月的电影节放映日程上撤掉了。
In a statement, Robert De Niro, a founder of the festival, wrote: “My intent in screening this film was to provide an opportunity for conversation around an issue that is deeply personal to me and my family. But after reviewing it over the past few days with the Tribeca Film Festival team and others from the scientific community, we do not believe it contributes to or furthers the discussion I had hoped for.”
该电影节的创办人之一罗伯特·德尼罗(Robert De Niro)在一项声明中写道：“我想放映这部纪录片是为了提供一个讨论这个对我和家人具有重要意义问题的机会。但是在过去几天里，我和翠贝卡电影节的团队以及科学界人士讨论了这部纪录片，我们认为它并不能深化我所期望的讨论，也不能有所贡献。”
The film, “Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe,” was directed and co-written by Andrew Wakefield, the author of a study that was published in the British medical journal The Lancet and then retracted in 2010. Mr. Wakefield’s medical license was also revoked over his failure to disclose financial conflicts of interest and ethics violations.
那部纪录片名叫《疫苗：从掩盖到灾难》(Vaxxed: From Cover-Up to Catastrophe)，导演兼联合编剧是安德鲁·韦克菲尔德(Andrew Wakefield)。韦克菲尔德曾在英国医学杂志《柳叶刀》(The Lancet)上发表过一项研究，2010年被撤销。韦克菲尔德的行医执照也因没有通报金融利益冲突、违反职业道德而被吊销。
Information about the film no longer appears on the festival’s website, but on Friday, the site, tribecafilm.com, did not mention Mr. Wakefield’s revoked license or the 2010 retraction, saying instead that the study “would catapult Wakefield into becoming one of the most controversial figures in the history of medicine.” And on Twitter, Mr. Wakefield described the film as a “whistle-blower documentary.”
现在，在该电影节的网站tribecafilm.com上已经找不到这部电影的信息，但是周五，该网站没有提到韦克菲尔德的执照被吊销，也没提他的文章2010年被撤销，而是说，这项研究“会让韦克菲尔德快速成为医学史上最具争议的人物之一”。韦克菲尔德在Twitter上称，这部电影是“揭露真相的纪录片”。
A festival spokeswoman said on Saturday that she had no further comment about what specifically in the film raised concerns for Mr. De Niro after he initially added it to the festival. The film was to have been shown just once, on April 24, and was to be followed by a discussion with the director and subjects of the film.
周六，该电影节的一位女发言人没有进一步评论是电影中的哪些内容引发德尼罗担忧，从而改变了最初把它加入电影节的决定。该电影节本打算只在4月24日放映一次该片，并在放映后组织与导演和片中主要人物的讨论。
Dr. William Schaffner, a professor of preventive medicine at the Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, said on Saturday that he believed “the entire board as well as Mr. De Niro have learned a lot in the last several days.”
周六，范德比尔特大学医学院(Vanderbilt University School of Medicine)的预防医学教授威廉·沙夫纳博士(William Schaffner)说，他认为，“整个董事会以及德尼罗先生在过去几天里学到了很多。”
“My hat is off to them for listening, thinking about it, discussing it and responding,” he said.
“他们愿意倾听、思考、讨论，并做出回应，为此我想向他们致敬。”他说。
Nevertheless, Dr. Schaffner said, it was troubling for scientists that a film promoting “discredited ideas” got so close to a forum as prestigious as the Tribeca Film Festival.
不过，沙夫纳博士说，一部宣传“已被证明错误的观点”的电影差点登上翠贝卡电影节这么有威望的平台令科学家们感到担忧。
“It gave these fraudulent ideas a face and a position and an energy that many of us thought they didn’t deserve,” he said. “We’re all for ongoing reasonable debate and discussion, but these are ideas that have been proven to be incorrect many, many, many times over the past 15 years.”
“我们很多人都认为，这些欺骗性观点不配得到这样的尊重、地位和精力，”他说，“我们都支持不断进行合理的辩论和讨论，但是这些观点在过去15年里已经被无数次证明是错误的。”
When the festival’s plan to show the film was made public on Tuesday, filmmakers and medical experts were vocal in their condemnation of it. The documentarian Penny Lane (“Our Nixon”) posted an open letter on Thursday in Filmmaker Magazine telling the festival that the screening “threatens the credibility of not just the other filmmakers in your doc slate, but the field in general.”
上周二，当该电影节计划放映这部电影的日程公布时，电影制片人和医学专家们纷纷强烈谴责。周四，纪录片制作人彭尼·莱恩（Penny Lane，曾执导《咱们的尼克松》[Our Nixon]）在《电影人杂志》(Filmmaker Magazine)上发表了一封公开信，称放映该片“不仅会危害其他纪录片制片人的声誉，而且会波及整个电影业”。
Doctors and infectious disease experts also spoke out. “Unless the Tribeca Film Festival plans to definitively unmask Andrew Wakefield, it will be yet another disheartening chapter where a scientific fraud continues to occupy a spotlight,” Dr. Mary Anne Jackson, a professor of pediatrics at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, said in an interview on Friday.
医生和传染病专家们也公开发表了言论。周五，密苏里-堪萨斯城大学(University of Missouri-Kansas City)的儿科教授玛丽·安妮·杰克逊博士(Mary Anne Jackson)在接受采访时说：“除非翠贝卡电影节计划明确揭穿安德鲁·韦克菲尔德的假面具，不然这会成为令人沮丧的又一个科学骗子继续成为焦点的事件。”
As the criticism mounted on Friday, Mr. De Niro defended the film, saying that he and his wife, Grace Hightower, have a child with autism and that “we believe it is critical that all of the issues surrounding the causes of autism be openly discussed and examined.”
上周五，面对越来越多的批评，德尼罗为这部电影辩护说，他和妻子格蕾丝·海托华(Grace Hightower)有个患自闭症的孩子，“我们认为，关于自闭症成因的所有话题都能被公开讨论和调查非常重要”。