LEBRING-SANKT MARGARETHEN, Austria — In my life I have participated in several military parades, but one stands out. As an officer candidate in the Austrian Army, I marched in step to the tune of the “Radetzky March” past a crowd — my Uncle Winfried and Aunt Waltraud among them — down an alley leading to Eggenberg Palace, in Graz.
奥地利莱布灵-圣玛格丽滕——我参与过几次阅兵仪式，其中有一次令人印象尤为深刻。作为奥地利陆军的候补军官，我在《拉德茨基进行曲》(Radetzky March)的旋律中，沿着一条小巷向前行进，经过人群——其中有我的叔叔温弗里德(Winfried)和婶婶瓦尔特劳德(Waltraud)，这条小巷通向格拉茨的埃根博格城堡。
It was late fall, chilly and dark. Half the members of my company carried torches, which cast eerie shadows on the Baroque exterior of the castle.
当时已经是晚秋，外面又黑又冷。我们这队人中有一半的人举着火把，火把的光照射在城堡巴洛克式的外墙上，形成了诡谲的影子。
As we marched by, crowds spontaneously clapped, some shouting, “Bravo, super Burschen!” (Well done, fine boys!) The shrill bark of red-faced sergeants and long days of monotonous drill were for a brief moment forgotten. Not forgotten were the echoes of past parades and the fate of those who had marched and cheered.
我们迈着步子走过时，人们自发地拍手叫好，一些人喊道，“小伙子们真棒！”面红耳赤的士官们厉声训斥的场景，以及日复一日的乏味训练在这一刻都被忘掉了。但忘不掉的是过去的阅兵式传来的回响，以及参加阅兵式的士兵和欢呼的群众经历的命运。
Grand national military parades are waning in most of the West, but in Asia, they are becoming a popular form of statesmanship. This year, lavish pageants of military hardware and marchers in formation will advance down boulevards in India, Pakistan, North Korea and China, as well as in Russia, straddling Europe and Asia.
在大多数西方国家，盛大的国庆阅兵仪式逐渐减少，但在亚洲，阅兵式变成了一种展现政治才能的常见形式。今年，印度、巴基斯坦、朝鲜、中国和俄罗斯这些亚洲和欧洲国家，都将举行盛大的阅兵仪式，展示军事装备和排列整齐的士兵方阵。
Yet however alluring and visually striking, these parades embody militarism, the deadly business at the heart of almost all sovereign states. The term “parade” comes from the Latin word “parare,” to prepare. Throughout history, parades have helped prepare citizens for war.
尽管阅兵式非常诱人，给人造成有力的视觉冲击，但它体现的却是军国主义，这种危险的事几乎是所有主权国家的核心。英语的“parade”一词源于拉丁语“parare”，意为准备。纵观历史，“阅兵式”(military parade)都是在帮助公民准备面对战争。
This volume of military parades suggests a dangerously combustible combination of militarism and national insecurity. They often create instability by starting a self-perpetuating cycle of lethal competition.
阅兵式数量之多说明现在存在军国主义，而且很多国家感到不安，两者相结合极易引燃危险的局面。这种情形常常会启动不断持续的致命竞争，进而引发动荡。
The 2015 Asian parade of parades began in January in India, which held a Republic Day gala in New Delhi. It featured cultural and religious tableaus woven into an awesome array of military displays. The “chief guest,” Barack Obama — the first American president to attend the event, with the first lady, Michelle Obama — applauded the troops with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and a host of dignitaries.
今年1月，印度在新德里举行了共和国日(Republic Day)阅兵式，拉开了2015年亚洲地区阅兵活动的序幕。印度将文化及宗教因素融入了展示军力的抢眼活动中。阅兵式的“主宾”巴拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)——第一位参加印度阅兵式的美国总统——以及一同出席的第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)，连同印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)和其他贵宾们为士兵鼓掌喝彩。
But these martial displays can prompt other nations — especially on borders — to continue a parade arms race in order to dispel notions of vulnerability and strengthen deterrence.
但这些展示军力的活动会促使其他国家——特别是接壤的邻国——继续这场以阅兵来开展军力的竞赛，从而打消本国会受到侵袭的想法，加强威慑力。
Following India’s parade, after a seven-year hiatus, Pakistan plans to hold its own Republic Day military parade. Noting President Obama’s visit to India and perhaps a Western tilt toward that country after NATO’s exit from Afghanistan, Pakistan’s prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, was hoping to secure President Xi Jinping of China as his “chief guest” of this year’s ceremony, as both leaders posture for a strategic alliance.
印度举行阅兵式之后，巴基斯坦在中断七年后，计划举行国庆日阅兵仪式。巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)注意到了奥巴马总统的印度之行，也注意到了西方国家在北约(NATO)从阿富汗撤离后，可能向印度倾斜的趋势，于是希望中国国家主席习近平成为今年阅兵式的“主宾”，因为两国领导人都有意达成战略联盟。
National military parades invite their own bigger and better sequels. Yet leaders of these countries might recall Europe’s experience in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, when countries underwent military innovation and stockpiled arms before the world wars.
国庆阅兵式总会促使别人举行规模更大的活动，来展示更精良的装备。但这些国家的领导人可能会回忆起欧洲在19世纪末20世纪初的经历，当时那些国家经历了军事创新，储备了大量武器，接着打响了世界大战。
Europe’s influence on parades can be found in Asia today in marching techniques, which often feature variations of the Prussian goose step (Stechschritt), especially popular in China, Russia and North Korea. Of the goose step, George Orwell noted that it is “one of the most horrible sights in the world.” He added, “It is simply an affirmation of naked power; contained in it, quite consciously and intentionally, is the vision of a boot crashing down on a face.”
欧洲对阅兵式的影响体现在当今亚洲国家阅兵式的行进方式上，士兵的步伐通常是由普鲁士正步(Stechschritt)演变而来。这种正步在中国、俄罗斯和朝鲜尤为流行。乔治·奥威尔(George Orwell)曾指出，正步是“世界上最令人厌恶的景象之一”。他还表示，“这简直就是对赤裸裸的权力给予肯定；故意甚至蓄意地给人一种用脚踩在脸上的画面感。”
Russia needs no reminder of the awful toll of the goose step. A parade will fill Red Square in May to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, the country’s most destructive war. President Vladimir V. Putin has expanded Victory Day celebrations, feeding his citizens’ reactionary sentiment for Soviet-era military prestige.
俄罗斯不需要别人来提醒正步造成的惨痛损失。俄罗斯将于今年5月在红场(Red Square)举行阅兵式，纪念二战结束70周年，二战是俄罗斯经历过的破坏性最大的战争。俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin)扩大了胜利日的庆祝活动，试图向公民灌输苏联时代军事威望的过时情绪。
Military parades can also publicize military spending. In countries like China, where only a figure for the total defense budget is released, they help show what taxpayer money is buying.
阅兵式还会展示军事开支。在中国等只公布总国防预算的国家，阅兵式有助于展示政府用纳税人的钱所购买的东西。
After staging only three military spectacles since 1960, the Communist Party of China aims to “make Japan tremble,” according to The People’s Daily, a state-run newspaper, with a prodigious military parade later this year.
自1960年以来，中国只举行了三次阅兵式，官方报纸《人民日报》报道，中国共产党想要在今年晚些时候举行大型阅兵式，目的是“震慑日本”。
President Xi will reportedly, in an unusual gesture in China’s modern history, invite foreign heads of state to witness this tour de force in Beijing. Leaders of Taiwan, Vietnam and the Philippines may tremble as well.
据报道，习近平将邀请外国首脑前往北京见证盛况，这是中国现代史上一个不同寻常的举动。台湾、越南和菲律宾领导人可能也会不寒而栗。
In Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has sought to ease postwar constitutional restrictions on the country’s military. Under the aegis of “Abenomics,” the Diet has approved an increase in military spending for three consecutive years.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)试图放宽战后宪法对该国军队的限制。以“安倍经济学”(Abenomics)作为后盾，日本国会连续三年通过了增加军费的计划。
No one who has ever participated in a military parade can deny the rousing yet mind-numbing sensation that marching in perfect synchronization to the tune of martial music invokes, as well as the peculiar intoxicating bond that is forged between the soldier and the audience.
参加过阅兵式的人都无法否认，踏着军乐节拍、以完全一致的步伐前行时，产生的那种激动人心却麻木头脑的感觉，以及士兵与观众之间建立的让人陶醉的诡异联系。
Marching, you are not allowed to move your head — save the dramatic “eyes right” for the presiding leader — and should restrict your vision to the neck seam of the soldier in front.
行进的时候不能扭头，应该目视前方，只能盯着前一名士兵的领圈缝——只有听到嘹亮的“向右看”口令，才能目视阅兵的首长。
This peripheral blindness, however, affects the soldiers, yet also the onlookers, creating what Harold Rosenberg called “a herd of independent minds.”
但这种周边视觉的丧失给士兵和观众带来影响，产生了哈罗德·罗森堡(Harold Rosenberg)所说的“独立思想的羊群”。
There is another, more solemn version of the military parade. In June 2012, I stood in a long line of a few hundred American soldiers and contractors flanking left and right the main road of Forward Operating Base Salerno in Khost Province, Afghanistan. A coffin draped with an American flag was slowly carried through the base.
还有一种更为肃穆的阅兵式。2012年6月，我与数百名美国士兵及承包商并肩站在阿富汗霍斯特省萨勒诺前方作战基地(Forward Operating Base Salerno)甬路的左右两侧。士兵们抬着一个盖着美国国旗的棺材，慢慢地穿过基地。
There was no music and no marching in step. A chaplain and a few soldiers of the unit escorted the coffin to a C-130 transport plane waiting on the runway. A loudspeaker shouted out the commands, and even though I was wearing civilian clothes, I instantly assumed a military posture at the order of “Attention!” With no further thought, I also knelt down at the command, “Prepare for prayer!”
现场没有音乐，没有整齐的行进步伐。牧师和部队的几名士兵，将棺材护送到停在跑道上的一架C-130运输机。喇叭里传出了各种口令，听到“立正”时，我立即摆出相应的姿势。听到“准备祈祷”的命令时，我想也没想就跪了下来。
When I later wrote about my experience in a story for an Austrian newspaper, many complained that I — as a correspondent — should not have participated in this “hero ceremony.” I felt I almost had no choice.
后来我为一家奥地利报纸撰文，讲述了我的经历，很多人抱怨到，我——作为一名记者——不应该参与这种“追悼英雄的仪式”。实际上，我觉得自己别无选择。