My 92-year-old aunt was a walking pharmacy, and a month ago it nearly killed her. The episode also cost the American medical system several hundred thousand dollars.
我的阿姨92岁了，简直就是个移动药房，而一个月前她差点让这间药房给害死了。这个小插曲也让美国医疗系统花费了数十万美元。
Overmedication of the elderly is an all too common problem, a public health crisis that compromises the well-being of growing numbers of older adults. Many take fistfuls of prescription and over-the-counter medications on a regular basis, risking serious and sometimes fatal side effects and drug interactions.
老年人的过度用药是一个非常常见的问题，堪称公共卫生危机，从而危及越来越多的老年人的福祉。很多人都在大把大把地定期吃药，包括处方药和非处方药；而这可能会带来严重甚至是致命的副作用及药物相互作用。
A series of research-based guidelines, recently updated and published in The Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, calls attention to specific medications most likely to have calamitous effects in the elderly. If adopted by practicing physicians and their patients, the guidelines should help to avert the kind of costly, debilitating disaster that befell my aunt.
《美国老年病学会志》(The Journal of the American Geriatrics Society)最近刊发了一系列基于研究的准则，呼吁人们关注对老年人产生不幸影响的特定药物。如果该准则被执业医师及他们的患者所接受，应该有助于避免像我阿姨遭受的那种昂贵而伤身的灾难。 
A Crisis Among the Elderly
老年人中的危机
In early March, my aunt was hospitalized for an episode of extreme weakness, sleepiness and confusion. She was found to be taking a number of medications and supplements: Synthroid, for low thyroid hormone; Tenormin and Benicar, for high blood pressure; Lexapro, for depression; Namenda, for symptoms of Alzheimer's disease; Xanax, for nighttime anxiety attacks; Travatan eye drops, for glaucoma; a multivitamin; vitamin C; calcium with vitamin D; low-dose aspirin; a lutein supplement; and Colace, a stool softener.
3月初，阿姨因为极度的虚弱、嗜睡和思维混乱，在医院小住了一阵。她被发现同时服用大量药物和补剂：左旋甲状腺素钠(Synthroid)用于补充甲状腺素；天诺敏(Tenormin)和奥美沙坦酯(Benicar)用于降血压；来士普(Lexapro)用于抗抑郁；美金刚(Namenda)用于控制阿尔茨海默症的症状；阿普唑仑(Xanax)用于夜间焦虑发作；苏为坦(Travatan)滴眼液用于青光眼；复合维生素；维生素C；钙和维生素D；低剂量阿司匹林；叶黄素补剂；还有科拉切(Colace)，一种软化大便的药。
Diagnosis at the hospital: low sodium, prompting a stoppage of Lexapro, known to cause such a side effect, and substitution of the antidepressant Viibryd. Noting her confusion, the hospital neurologist also added Aricept, another treatment for Alzheimer's disease, although she is only suspected of having this condition.
医院作出的诊断是：低钠，提示停用已知引起此类副作用的来士普，使用抗抑郁药维拉佐酮(Viibryd)替代。注意到她的意识混乱，医院的神经科医生还加用了安理申(Aricept)，这是另一种治疗阿尔茨海默氏症的药物，但其实她仅仅是怀疑有这个病。
Her cardiologist doubled the dose of Tenormin, stopped the Benicar and added another blood pressure medication, Apresoline. This caused a precipitous drop in blood pressure to 70/40 (120/80 is normal), leaving her completely disoriented and unable to stand or sit up.
她的心脏科医生把天诺敏的剂量加倍，停用了奥美沙坦酯，加入了另一种降血压的阿普利素宁(Apresoline)。它令血压急剧下降到了70/40（正常是120/80），这令她晕头转向，甚至坐也不起来，站也站不了。
After 10 days in the hospital, as she was being discharged, my aunt collapsed and started turning blue. CPR was administered (which fractured three ribs), followed by resuscitation in the emergency room and then transfer to intensive care, where she suffered three seizures. She was put on Dilantin to control them.
住院10天后，快出院的时候，阿姨摔倒了，脸色发青。医生给她做了心肺复苏（这让她断了三根肋骨），在急诊室做了复苏后，又转移到了重症监护病房。她在那儿三次出现痉挛。医生给她用了苯妥英钠(Dilantin)来控制发作。
She developed double pneumonia, and the end seemed near. A do-not-resuscitate order was issued. One night, when she was too agitated to fall sleep, she was given a dose of Ativan, a sedative, that left her unable to wake up for 30 hours.
她患上了双侧肺炎，看上去命不久矣。她已经签署了“不抢救”的同意书。有一晚，她焦虑到难以入睡，医院给了劳拉西泮(Ativan)，这种镇静药令她昏睡了30小时。
Miraculously, she responded to antibiotics and administration of oxygen, and she has since been discharged to a rehabilitation facility where she is steadily getting stronger, less confused and refreshingly feisty.
神奇的是，抗生素和吸氧对她有效，她现在已经出院了，在一家康复中心休养，身体慢慢好转，头脑不那么混乱，而且精力日益充沛。
Older adults like my aunt are the largest consumers of medications. More than 40 percent of people over age 65 take five or more medications, and each year about one-third of them experience a serious adverse effect, like a bone-breaking fall, disorientation, inability to urinate, even heart failure.
我阿姨这样的老年人是药物的最大消费群体。65岁以上人群中，超过40%的人服用5种以上的药物，而其中有三分之一的人每年会遭遇严重的不良反应，如摔倒导致骨折、定向障碍、排尿障碍，甚至心脏衰竭。
With the support of the geriatrics society, an interdisciplinary panel of 11 experts in geriatric care and pharmacology has updated the so-called Beers Criteria, guidelines long used to minimize such drug-related disasters in the elderly. After reviewing more than 2,000 high-quality research studies of drugs prescribed for older adults, the team highlighted 53 potentially inappropriate medications or classes of medication and placed them in one of three categories: drugs to avoid in general in the elderly; drugs to avoid in older people with certain diseases and syndromes; and drugs to use with caution in the elderly if there are no acceptable alternatives.
在老年病学会的支持下，11名专家组成的一个老年护理和药理学跨学科小组已经更新了所谓的比尔斯标准（Beers Criteria，老年医学中关于合理用药的一个著名的标准，该标准在1991年公布后即被国际广泛关注和引用——译注），这是长期用于减少老年用药相关灾难的指导守则。审阅了2000多项关于老年人用药的高质量研究后，团队强调了53种潜在不当使用的药物或种类，并把它们分为三类：避免在老年人中使用；避免在有特定疾病和症状的老年人中使用；如果确实没有可接受的替代品，需在老年人中谨慎使用。
For example, instead of a sedative hypnotic - like the Ativan given to my aunt - that can cause extreme sedation, serious confusion and mental decline in older adults, the panel notes that an alternative sleep remedy, perhaps an herbal or nondrug option, is safer. Many sedating antihistamines, in a class of drugs called anticholinergics, should be avoided in older adults because they can cause such side effects as confusion, drowsiness, blurred vision, difficulty urinating, dry mouth and constipation, the panel concluded.
比如，镇静催眠药——像我阿姨服用的劳拉西泮——会引起老年人严重的镇静作用、认知混乱和智力衰退；专家小组强调，应该用其他睡眠措施来替代，如草药或其他非药物方法，这会更安全。专家小组的结论是，许多有镇静作用的抗组胺药物，统称为抗胆碱能药物，应避免在老年人中使用，因为它们会引起如思维混乱、嗜睡、视力模糊、排尿困难、口干、便秘等副作用。
Mineral oil taken by mouth can, if accidentally inhaled, cause aspiration pneumonia, and many commonly used anti-inflammatory medications, including over-the-counter drugs like ibuprofen and naproxen, increase the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding in adults age 75 and older, as well as in those age 65 and older who also take medications like prednisone and warfarin.
口服的矿物油，如果不慎吸入，可引起吸入性肺炎；许多常用的消炎药，包括如布洛芬(ibuprofen)和萘普生(naproxen)这样的非处方药，都会增加75岁以上老年人消化道出血的风险，65岁以上老年人服用强的松(prednisone)和华法林(warfarin)时有同样的风险。
In adults over age 80, the team warned, aspirin taken to prevent heart attacks "may do more harm than good," and any antidepressant may lower sodium in the blood to dangerous levels, as happened to my aunt.
团队还警告说，对80岁以上老年人来说，服用阿司匹林用于预防心脏病发作“弊大于利”，所有的抗抑郁药都会使血钠降低到危险水平，这正是我阿姨遇到的问题。
The team said its criteria should be used by physicians and patients within and outside of institutional settings. But the experts also emphasized that the guidelines should not override a doctor's clinical judgment or a patient's needs and values, nor be used as grounds for malpractice disputes.
团队认为，这一标准应该被制度内外的医生和病人广泛使用。但专家也强调，指导守则不能用于推翻医生对患者需求和价值取向的临床判断，也不能作为判断医疗事故纠纷的依据。
The Patient's Responsibility
患者的责任
The geriatric society's Foundation for Health in Aging has produced a one-page "drug and supplement diary" that can help patients keep track of the drugs and dosages they take. They should show the list to every health care provider they see. The form can be found at www.americangeriatrics.org/files/documents/beers/MyDrugDiary.pdf.
老年病学会的健康老龄化基金(Foundation for Health in Aging)，做了一份一页纸的“药物和补剂日记”，可以帮助患者追踪记录他们服用的药物种类和剂量。他们应该在就医的时候出示这一表格。表格可点击此处下载。
Too often, people with multiple health problems have one doctor who does not know what another has prescribed. A new prescription can lead to a toxic drug interaction, or simply be ineffective, because it is counteracted by something else being taken.
常见的情况是，人们有多种健康问题，而一个医生不知道其他医生开了什么药。新开的处方可能会引起药物有害的相互作用，或者仅是因为同时服用的其他东西而抵消了药效。
There is nothing to be gained, and potentially much to lose, by failing to disclose to health care professionals the use of prescribed, over-the-counter or recreational drugs, including alcohol. Nor should any chronic medical condition or prior adverse drug reaction be kept from your doctor.
如果不能把使用的处方药、非处方药，以及包括酒精在内的软性毒品毫无保留地告知医护人员，这完全不会有任何好处，而是有潜在的坏处。此外，任何慢性病或此前发生过的药物反应，也都不应向医生隐瞒。
Whenever a medication is prescribed, patients should ask about side effects to watch for. If a bad or unexpected reaction occurs or the drug does not seem to be working, the prescribing doctor should be told without delay. But patients should never stop taking a prescribed medication without first consulting a health care professional.
每次得到处方，患者应咨询相关的副作用。如果出现了不好的或是意外的反应，或是药物不起效的时候，应立刻告诉开处方的医生。但是，在没有咨询过专业医生之前，患者绝不能自行停止服药。
Nor should they add any drug or supplement to a prescribed regimen without first consulting a doctor. Even something as seemingly innocent as ibuprofen, acetaminophen, St. John's wort or an antihistamine purchased over the counter can sometimes lead to dangerous adverse reactions when combined with certain prescribed medications or pre-existing health problems.
未咨询医生之前，也不能在处方中自行任何添加药物或补剂。即使看起来无害的布洛芬、对乙酰氨基酚（acetaminophen，解热镇痛药）、圣约翰麦芽汁（美国流行多年的一种草药——译注），或某种非处方抗组胺药物，在与特定的处方药或既有病史相互作用时，也可能导致严重的副反应。
But just because a drug is on one of the lists in the Beers Criteria does not mean every older person would be adversely affected by it. The drug may be essential for some patients, and there may be no safer alternative. When all is said and done, a doctor must weigh the benefits and risks.
如果某种药物跻身比尔斯标准，并不是说老年人一定会遇到不良反应。该药可能对某些患者是基础用药，而且可能不存在更安全的替代品。说到底，医生必须权衡用药的利益和风险。