Tony Hsieh didn’t look much like a modern-day Bugsy Siegel. Wearing backpack, T-shirt and jeans, standing outside a downtown bar, he patrolled his future empire along East Fremont Street here one sweltering morning.
谢家华(Tony Hsieh)看上去并不像当代的“巴格斯”西格尔(Bugsy Siegel)。在一个闷热的上午，这个穿着T恤和牛仔裤、背着背包站在市中心一间酒吧外的人，沿着菲尔蒙特东大街步行巡视了他的未来帝国。
But the flamboyant Seigel changed this city for good when he built the Flamingo Hotel, the first luxury casino on the Strip. Now Mr. Hsieh, a soft-spoken 39-year-old Internet billionaire who runs Zappos, the online clothing store, plans to do something as transformative. It’s a classic American dream: a Western-scale roll of the dice in a city that suddenly conjured up Belle Époque Paris and ancient Rome out of the desert. The idea this time is to build a version of the Mission district in San Francisco or the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn in downtown Vegas.
特立独行的西格尔建起火烈鸟酒店(Flamingo Hotel)，拉斯维加斯大道上的第一座豪华赌场，从而彻底改变了这座城市。而现在，运营网上服装店Zappos的39岁互联网亿万富翁、温文尔雅的谢家华打算做一件同样天翻地覆的事。这是一个典型的美国梦：一座城市中的一次西部范儿的豪赌，突然在沙漠中创造出一座“美丽年代”(Belle Époque)的巴黎和古罗马。这一次他的想法是在拉斯维加斯市中心建造一片旧金山的教会区或纽约布鲁克林的威廉斯堡街区。
Mr. Hsieh (pronounced shay) is relocating Zappos headquarters from Henderson, Nev., about 16 miles away, and investing hundreds of millions of his own dollars to retrofit downtown with, well, a downtown, in line with the latest trends.
谢家华正在搬迁位于16英里（约合25.8公里）外的内华达州亨德森的Zappos总部，并且要自掏腰包，用巨资把市中心翻新为一个贴合最新潮流的市中心。
I came to check out the progress. There’s not much to see yet, but his $350 million Downtown Project — a mix of investments, acquisitions and loans — envisions blocks and blocks of community-based, pedestrian-friendly, small-business-oriented, high-density, high-tech urbanism in long-depressed and troubled neighborhoods. Zappos will take over the decrepit old City Hall. That gesture alone, salvaging a local landmark, has endeared Mr. Hsieh to many in Las Vegas.
我来到这里查看进度。现在还没有太多可看的东西，不过他这个投资3.5亿美元的市中心计划(Downtown Project)——其中有投资、收购和贷款——设想在陷入长期萧条和困境的社区里，建立一个又一个街区，特点是以社区为基础、利于步行、偏重小商家、高密度、高科技的城市化改造。Zappos会入驻又老又破的市政厅。单是这个要拯救当地地标建筑的举动，就已经让谢家华博得了许多拉斯维加斯人的喜爱。
We spoke briefly the other night in the Gold Spike, a former casino near City Hall whose gambling room he stripped and converted into a chic slots-free bar and chill space. He took me to the empty motel he bought next-door, where, he speculated, a modeling agency and photography studio could take over what used to be a few of the poolside guest rooms.
有天晚上我们在“金钉子”(Gold Spike)进行了简短谈话，这地方在市政厅附近，原来是座赌场，他拆掉赌博用的房间，把它改建为一座没有老虎机的别致酒吧和休闲场所。他带着我去了隔壁一座已经被他买下的空置汽车旅馆，他设想这里游泳池边的一些客房可以给一个模特经纪公司和摄影工作室用。
On nearby blocks, which he has also gobbled up, the Downtown Project would seed tech start-ups, boutiques, mom-and-pop restaurants and bars; the world’s largest Airstream trailer park; a playground and geodesic dome; a complex of recording studios; a charter school; a doggy day care; a bike share program, even a Tesla electric car share, along with theaters for TED Talk-like lecturers and music festivals.
他还吞并了附近的街区，“市中心计划”将在这里培养一些科技创业公司、时尚精品店、夫妻店式的餐厅和酒吧；还有世界上最大的Airstream房车停车场、一片操场和球面攀爬架、一个录音棚综合区、一座特许学校、一间小狗日托所、一套自行车分享项目架，甚至还有一个特斯拉(Tesla)电动车分享项目，以及几座剧场，用来举办TED Talk之类的讲座和音乐节。
There’s no designer-led master plan, no single billion-dollar construction project, no star architect. The concept is top-down but preaches piecemeal, bottom-up development and reuse. It exploits a picturesque supply of abandoned flop houses, vacant offices and collapsing warehouses, capitalizing on a growing desire among young Americans for urban life: an anti-Strip vision of America.
这里不存在设计师主导的整体规划，没有数十亿美元的建筑项目，也没有明星建筑师。理念是自上而下产生的，但宣扬的是零碎的、自下而上的开发和再利用。它别出心裁地利用了一片被废弃的破旧房屋、空置的办公室和快要垮塌的仓库，抓住了美国年轻人对于城市生活不断增长的渴望：一幅与拉斯维加斯大道相反的美国景象。
Mr. Hsieh’s timing could hardly have been better. The local economy, devastated when the bubble burst, is limping back. The population (increasingly young Asians and Hispanics) keeps rising, and wealthy out-of-towners prop up the high end of the housing market. Most properties are still under water, and the city is down 100,000 construction jobs from pre-recession highs, but the picture isn’t as bleak, or straightforward, as four years ago.
谢家华的时机选得不能再好了。因泡沫破裂而受重创的当地经济正在一瘸一拐地复苏。人口不断在增长，其中亚裔和西语裔比例越来越高，而富有的外乡人支撑着高端房地产市场。大多数房地产仍然资不抵债，建筑业相比衰退前的最高点少了10万个工作岗位，但这幅景象已经没有四年前那么明显地不堪了。
At the same time, Las Vegas suffers the pitfalls of being a one-industry town. Baked into its economy are minimal taxes and a state government inclined to ship much of what Las Vegas contributes to the rest of Nevada, which, among other consequences, insures the school system is perennially poor. Casino moguls, needing a steady supply of parking attendants, hotel maids and blackjack dealers, not college-educated workers, were once fine with that. But times are changing. Now the lack of good public schools and downtown amenities — demanded by those mobile and educated young Americans other cities are competing to attract — has become a liability.
与此同时，拉斯维加斯作为一个产业单一的城市还存在隐忧。它的经济有一些无法摆脱的因素，税率低到极致，州政府又总是要把拉斯维加斯的经济贡献大量输送到内华达州其他地方，这产生了诸多后果，比如教育系统因此持续处于贫困状态。赌场大亨们需要的是城市能稳定供应停车服务员、酒店女佣和21点庄家这样的人力资源，而非受过大学教育的工人，因此他们对学校的状况一度是无所谓的。但时代在变。现在，优秀公立学校和市中心便利设施的缺乏已经成为不利因素，那些流动的、受过良好教育的年轻美国人需要这些，其他城市正在竞相用这些来吸引他们。
On top of which, Las Vegans I spoke with, young and old, complained about not having “enough authentic places,” which are “locally owned, one of a kind, less corporate,” as Tyler Jones, a 35-year-old architect-developer of luxury homes and third-generation Las Vegan, put it to me. They wanted a Las Vegas for Las Vegans.
另外，曾与我交谈过的拉斯维加斯人，无论年轻人还是老年人，都在抱怨市里“地道的地方”不够多，如35岁的泰勒·琼斯(Tyler Jones)所说，就是“本地人经营的、独一无二的、没那么企业化的”地方，琼斯是一名豪华住宅建筑师兼开发商，第三代拉斯维加斯人。他们想要一个拉斯维加斯人的拉斯维加斯。
Which is where Tony Hsieh comes in.
这就是谢家华想要做的事情。
Downtown began to decline by the 1960s. The casinos, department stores and middle-class homeowners fled south to the Strip, seizing upon cheap and plentiful land. During the 1990s, five desperate blocks of what used to be the heart of the downtown gambling scene became a pedestrian concourse beneath a lighted canopy. It’s now a blighted attraction. A retail and entertainment mall arrived in 2002 and soon went belly up, leaving a fortress-size hole amid the pawn shops and homeless shelters.
市中心从20世纪60年代起开始衰落。赌场、百货商店和中产阶级房主纷纷逃到南边的拉斯维加斯大道一带，获取了大量的廉价土地。在20世纪90年代，曾经是市中心赌场区核心地带的五个陷入绝境的街区成了一片带灯光顶棚的步行广场。现在它已经成了一个破败的观光景点。2002年建起了一座零售和娱乐购物中心，但很快就关门大吉了，在典当行和流浪汉收容所之间留下了一座空荡荡的堡垒。
Since then, there has been progress. The Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, designed by Frank Gehry, opened downtown in 2010; the popular Smith Center for the Performing Arts, a $485 million project, last year; along with a new City Hall. And back in 2007, a small bohemian speakeasy called the Downtown Cocktail Room. Hanging out there a few years ago, Mr. Hsieh began to picture a different vision for the neighborhood: as an affordable locus for upscale young adults, having little or nothing to do with gambling.
从那时起，这里开始有了一些起色。弗兰克·盖里(Frank Gehry)设计的克利夫兰卢-鲁沃脑健康中心(Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health)于2010年在市中心开业；去年耗资4.85亿美元建成了史密斯表演艺术中心(Smith Center for the Performing Arts)，很受欢迎；还有一座新的市政厅。早在2007年，则有一间名叫市中心鸡尾酒吧(Downtown Cocktail Room)的波西米亚小酒吧。在这里待了几年之后，谢家华开始为这一街区勾画一幅不同的景象：一个高收入年轻人负担得起的地方，基本上与赌钱没什么关联。
In some ways, the most fascinating aspect of this vision is the relocation of Zappos. Moving its headquarters downtown represents a pointed alternative to the multibillion-dollar suburban office parks that Google and Apple are building in Silicon Valley, notwithstanding that so many of their own employees want to live, and commute from, San Francisco. Mr. Hsieh has bought into the solid notion that chance encounters on the street or at a club — urban collisions — spark innovation: cities, inherently, nurture the economy and culture.
从一定程度上来说，这一愿景最吸引人的地方就是搬迁Zappos。把公司总部搬到市中心，这和谷歌(Google)及苹果(Apple)等公司的行动形成鲜明对比，苹果正在硅谷郊区斥资数十亿美元修建办公园区，尽管他们自己的员工中有很多人想住在旧金山，或需要在旧金山和工作地点之间通勤。谢家华深信这样一个坚定的理念，即街边或夜店里的偶遇——都市的碰撞——会激起创新的火花：城市可以潜移默化地培育经济和文化。
It’s a gentrifying idea that comes at the cost of displacing some existing businesses whose owners say downtown Las Vegas wasn’t a blank slate. Critics like Joel Kotkin, a fellow of Urban Futures at Chapman University, have told The Las Vegas Review-Journal that Mr. Hsieh’s project commits tax dollars (by, for instance, helping finance Zappos’s purchase of the old City Hall) that might otherwise be spent on training programs or buses.
这个对街区进行美化升级的想法，会造成市中心现有的一些商户被迫搬迁。这些商家称拉斯维加斯的市中心本不是一张白纸。乔尔·科特金(Joel Kotkin)等批评人士曾告诉《拉斯维加斯评论报》(Las Vegas Review-Journal)，谢家华的工程会占用本可能会被用于培训项目和公交车项目的税款（如资助Zappos购买老市政厅）。
But then there’s Eat. I stopped by at lunchtime. It’s the antithesis of the celebrity chef chains on the Strip — more like some neighborhood hot spot you’d stumble across in Austin, Tex. Natalie Young, the chef and owner, having grown tired of her job on the Strip, opened the place with a no-interest $225,000 loan from the Downtown Project. When she fell behind on her apartment rent, according to The Review-Journal, she called Michael Cornthwaite, a friend, who owns the Cocktail Room. His wife showed up at Ms. Young’s door with a check. Eat has since been hopping. That story encapsulates the sort of communal entrepreneurship that Mr. Hsieh hopes to inspire.
但这里还有Eat餐厅。我在午餐时间来到这一餐馆，该餐馆和拉斯维加斯大道上的名厨连锁餐厅正好相反——更像你会在德克萨斯州奥斯汀偶然发现的某家颇受欢迎的社区餐馆。主厨兼老板纳塔莉·扬(Natalie Young)厌倦了她在大道的工作，便用从市中心计划处获得的22.5万美元无息贷款开了这家餐馆。据《拉斯维加斯评论报》的报道，当她不能按时支付公寓租金时，她给拥有鸡尾酒吧的朋友迈克尔·科恩斯威特(Michael Cornthwaite)打了一通电话。科恩斯威特的妻子给扬带来了一张支票，Eat的生意自此以后一直蒸蒸日上。这个故事就体现了谢家华希望激发的那种社区创业精神。
I toured the East Fremont district with Don Welch, one of Mr. Hsieh’s partners, who talked in the dreamy, assured way developers do about filling blocks and blocks of vacant land in the next few years with a bustle of businesses and people.
我和谢家华的一位合伙人唐·韦尔奇(Don Welch)一同参观了东弗里蒙特区(East Fremont district)。韦尔奇以开发商那种充满臆想却又自信满满的方式大谈，如何在未来几年让一栋栋建筑从空置的土地上拔地而起，建成生意兴旺、人来人往的社区。
We’ll see. Short term, success depends on Mr. Hsieh’s running the table, investment-wise. A range of business leaders, local converts to civic diversification, not just from the gambling industry, hopes he does. Long term, success will depend on a broader vision, which incorporates downtown casinos and integrates existing schools, homeless shelters and convenience stores, so the city doesn’t simply end up with an isolated hipster office park.
让我们拭目以待。从短期来看，成功依赖于谢家华在投资方面的运作。一些坚信城市多元化的当地商界领袖（他们不只来自博彩行业）希望他能做到。从长期来看，要有更广阔的愿景才能成功，即把市中心的赌场和现有的学校、福利院和便利店一并纳入其中，这样一来，整个城市就不会最终变成一个孤立的新潮办公园区。
Hard as it may be not to feel skeptical, the small-scale civic principles are solid. And sometimes a single determined mogul is just what a struggling city needs.
或许人们很难不对此心存怀疑，但小范围内的市民精神仍然坚定。有时候，一个下定决心的大亨正是这个艰难求存的城市所需要的。
It wouldn’t be the first time that Las Vegas was remade by one.
拉斯维加斯被一人重塑，这也不是第一次了。