The lead-up to the French presidential election has been rife with debates over immigration, terrorism and the European Union, but one nonpolitical factor has fascinated the public in France and abroad: the 24-year age gap between Emmanuel Macron, 39, the candidate who will face off against Marine Le Pen on Sunday, and his wife Brigitte, 64.
法国总统选举之前的一段时期充满了关于移民、恐怖主义和欧盟的辩论，但其中也有一个非政治话题颇令法国与海外公众着迷：在周日的大选中，与马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)对阵的埃马纽埃尔·马克龙(Emmanuel Macron)今年39岁，他的妻子布丽吉特(Brigitte)64岁，两人之间相差24岁。
Granted, the back story to their coupledom is unusual, maybe even by the standards of the French, whose current and past leaders have been embroiled in very public romantic dramas.
的确，两人的结合背后有一个不同寻常的故事，可能就以法国标准看也是如此——这个国家现在和过去的领导人都曾卷入广为公开的戏剧性浪漫事件。
Ms. Macron first met Mr. Macron when he was 15 and she was his teacher, married with three children, at a high school in Amiens, France. The two became close after Mr. Macron asked her to help him rewrite sections of a play. Before Mr. Macron moved to Paris to continue his schooling, he declared, at age 17, that he would one day marry his teacher. He did, in 2007.
马克龙夫妇在法国亚眠的一所高中相遇，当时马克龙只有15岁，布丽吉特是他的老师，已婚，有三个孩子。埃马纽埃尔·马克龙请她帮忙重写自己的几段剧本，之后两人的关系开始密切起来。17岁那年，马克龙宣布自己总有一天会同老师结婚，之后移居巴黎继续学业。2007年，他们真的结婚了。
The specifics of their love have generated headlines, commentary and opinion pieces around the world. A Forbes article asked: “Who Is the Older Woman That Could Become France’s First Lady?” A feminist think piece in The Guardian responded to a heavy-on-the-sarcasm column in The Daily Mail that portrayed Mr. Macron as a “mummy’s boy” who needs Ms. Macron to wipe his mouth or give him “a smack” for misbehaving. Ms. Macron has been called a “menopausal Barbie” and Mr. Macron a teacher’s pet.
这段恋情的细节登上了世界各地的新闻，引出了各种评论和观点文章。《福布斯》(Forbes)上的一篇文章问道：《那位可能成为法国第一夫人的年长女性是谁？》（马克龙已在5月7日的法国总统大选中胜选——编注）。《每日邮报》(The Daily Mail)发表了一篇充斥着讽刺之辞的专栏文章，把马克龙描绘为“妈咪的男孩”，还需要马克龙夫人给他擦嘴，或是在他胡闹时扇他“一巴掌”。《卫报》(The Guardian)上的一篇女权主义观点文章对之进行了回应。马克龙夫人还被称为“更年期芭比”，马克龙本人则是老师的宠物。
All the talk even led to wild speculation that Mr. Macron is gay and in a relationship with the chief executive of Radio France, Mathieu Gallet. Mr. Macron dismissed the rumor in February with a joke.
各种讨论甚至引发了疯狂的揣测，有人认为马克龙是同性恋者，并与法国广播电台首席执行官马蒂厄·加莱(Mathieu Gallet)是一对。二月，马克龙用一个玩笑驳斥了传言。
Why the obsessive chronicling?
为什么人们对此事这样关心？
Cindy Gallop, a provocative web entrepreneur who has been vocal about her decision to date younger men, points to sexism. “It makes people very uncomfortable to see the gender equation reversed,” she said. “Out there in the world are many, many younger men who would love to date older women, but would never do anything about it because there’s this appalling societal double standard.”
辛迪·格洛普(Cindy Gallop)是一个有争议的互联网企业家，她喜欢约会比自己年轻的男人，并且对此直言不讳。她指出这其中存在性别歧视。“看到性别角色的逆转会让人觉得不舒服，”她说。“世界上有许多许多年轻男人其实很喜欢约会比自己年纪大的女人，但是因为社会上存在恶劣的双重标准，他们永远不会付诸实际行动。”
As unconventional as the Macrons’ marriage may seem, the pairing of an older woman with a significantly younger man is not a new one (recall Demi Moore and Ashton Kutcher or Madonna and Brahim Zaibat), nor is it that uncommon.
马克龙夫妇的婚姻看上去可能非同寻常，不过年长女人和一个比自己年轻得多的男人成为情侣，这样的事情其实并不新鲜（想想黛米·摩尔[Demi Moore]与阿什顿·库彻[Ashton Kutcher]，或者麦当娜[Madonna]与卜拉欣·柴贝[Brahim Zaibat]吧），也不是那么罕见。
“We make this assumption that men want all the power,” said Helen Fisher, a biological anthropologist and adviser to Match.com, which funded a survey of 5,500 singles in America last year and found that 26 percent of women were open to dating men 10 or more years younger. “It’s flat out not true. Men want a companion, and we are seeing the rise of women as intellectual partners, as sexual partners, as soul partners.”
婚恋网站Match.com去年资助的一项调查研究了美国的5500名单身人士，发现有26％的女性愿意约会比自己年轻10岁乃至年龄更小的男人。生物人类学家兼该网站顾问海伦·费雪(Helen Fisher)说：“我们假设男人想要获得所有权力，其实完全不是这么回事。男人想要的是一个伴侣，我们见证了女性慢慢开始成为男性的智识伙伴、性伙伴与灵魂伴侣。”
Ms. Fisher added that the prevalence of May-December romances involving younger men is part of a general shift in Western culture toward double-income families. With women gaining more economic power, she added, younger men will seek out partners who either make as much money as they do or more, and have similar or higher levels of education.
费雪补充说，在西方文化中，家中夫妻双方都开始挣钱，随着这种变化日益普遍，年轻男子与年长女性的恋爱也盛行起来。她补充说，随着女性获得更多的经济权力，年轻男人将会追求那些赚钱和他们一样多或是更多的伴侣，并且希望她们和自己拥有相似乃至更高的教育水平。
Examples of such relationships already abound in popular culture. Take Aaron Taylor-Johnson, 26, who won a Golden Globe this year for his role in “Nocturnal Animals” and stars in the coming movie “The Wall.” Mr. Taylor-Johnson has been married since 2012 and has two children with Sam Taylor-Johnson, 50, a director of “Fifty Shades of Grey” and other films.
这样的关系在大众文化中已经有了很多例子。今年凭《夜行动物》(Noctural Animals)获得金球奖，并主演了即将上映的《生死之墙》(The Wall)一片的亚伦·泰勒-约翰逊(Aaron Taylor-Johnson) 今年26岁。2012年，他和50岁的萨姆·泰勒-约翰逊( Sam Taylor-Johnson)结婚，二人生有两个孩子。萨姆·泰勒-约翰逊是《五十度灰》(Fifty Shades of Grey)等影片的导演。
Wendi Deng Murdoch, 48, who was married to Rupert Murdoch, 86, for over a decade recently became Instagram official with Bertold Zahoran, 23, a model. The two vacationed in the Caribbean on New Year’s Eve, and recently went on a trip with Hugh Jackman and Diane von Furstenberg.
48岁的邓文迪同86岁的鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)的婚姻保持了十几年，最近，她在Instagram上公开了自己同23岁的模特伯托尔德·佐霍兰(Bertold Zahoran)的恋情。两人元旦前夕在加勒比度假，前不久还同休·杰克曼(Hugh Jackman)与黛安·冯芙丝汀宝(Diane von Furstenberg)一起旅行。
Those who follow reality TV may be familiar with the pairing of Carole Radziwill, 53, an author and Emmy-award-winning journalist who stars on “Real Housewives of New York City,” and Adam Kenworthy, 31, a chef. And magazine insiders may know that Laura Brown, the editor in chief of InStyle magazine, dates Brandon Borror-Chappell, a writer and comedian who is 16 years younger.
常看电视真人秀的人可能会熟悉卡罗尔·拉齐维尔(Carole Radziwill)和亚当·肯沃西(Adam Kenworthy)这对情侣，拉齐维尔53岁，是作家兼记者，其作品曾获得艾美奖，主演过《纽约娇妻》(Real Housewives of New York City)；31岁的肯沃西是一名大厨。杂志界的圈内人或许知道，《InStyle》杂志的主编劳拉·布朗(Laura Brown)正在和作家兼喜剧演员布朗登·鲍勃-查普尔(Brandon Borror-Chappell)约会，他比她年轻16岁。
All of these couples have dealt with a hefty share of scrutiny. Mr. Taylor-Johnson told Vulture earlier this year that the attention on his marriage has been “intrusive.” Ms. Radziwill faced criticism from her “Real Housewives” co-star Luann de Lesseps, whose niece had once dated Mr. Kenworthy.
所有这些夫妻和情侣都要经受大量的品头评足。泰勒-约翰逊先生今年早些时候告诉《Vulture》杂志，人们对他的婚姻的关注是“骚扰”。拉齐维尔曾被《纽约娇妻》的另一位主演卢安·德莱赛普斯(Luann de Lesseps)批评，后者的侄女也曾经和肯沃西约会。
Ms. Gallop, who is 57, said that younger men are able to match her energy levels better than men her age. Beyond that, she sees herself as an alternative role model. “People are interested in the overall point I’m making,” she said. “Design a model that works for you as opposed to imposing a societally approved model of who you are supposed to be.”
57岁的格洛普说，与同龄男人相比，年轻男人更能适应她的精力水平。此外，她觉得自己是一个另类榜样。“人们对我传达出的整体理念产生兴趣。”她说：“要设计一个适合你自己的模式，而不是把一种社会认可的模式强加给自己，让它来决定你应该是什么样子。”
Dr. Fisher goes further, and sees this as a sign of progress. “People will have natural questions about it,” she said. “But the beauty is that these days we can go beyond our culture, and choose who we want and go with our hearts. Love wins.”
费雪博士的观点走得更远，她认为这种老少组合是一种进步的标志。“对于这种事，人们会本能地产生疑问，”她说。 “但其中的美好之处在于，如今我们可以超越自己的文化，听从内心，选择自己想要的人。真爱无敌。”