BAMA COUNTY, China — His legs numb from a stroke, his head throbbing with pain, Wu Weiying came to the jagged green mountains of southern China in search of a cure.
中国巴马县——武炜英的双腿因为中风而失去了知觉，头一阵阵抽痛。为了治病，他来到了中国南方这片地势起伏的苍翠群山间。
Mr. Wu, 66, had been hearing about Bama County for years — it was the longevity capital of China, the brochures promised, where illnesses vanished and people lived long past 100. Mr. Wu, eager to regain his vitality so he could once again play mah-jongg, set out in September for Bama’s turquoise rivers.
来之前，66岁的他听说巴马县的传闻已有多年。宣传手册断言它是中国的长寿之乡，在这里，疾病消失，人们会活到100多岁。渴望恢复活力以便能重新打麻将的武炜英，于去年9月出发，前往巴马碧绿的河流。
In Bama, he adopted the local lifestyle, eating mushrooms said to possess divine powers, drinking water from a river that promised a long life and exercising in a cave known for its pristine air. But after seven months, his condition showed no signs of improvement, and he fell into depression.
在巴马，他采取当地人的生活方式，吃的是据称拥有神力的蘑菇，喝的是从一条据说能让人长寿的河里打来的水，并在一个以空气纯净而出名的山洞里锻炼。但七个月后，他的情况并没有出现好转的迹象。他陷入了沮丧。
“I’ve lost all hope,” he said, his eyes brimming with tears. “It’s impossible to cure my disease.”
“我没希望了，”他眼里噙满泪水说道。“我的病不可能治好。”
Once a largely undisturbed hamlet hidden in the karst mountains of Guangxi Province, Bama has in recent years become a magnet for China’s sick and aged.
巴马曾是一个宁静的小县，隐藏在广西卡斯特地貌的山区。近年来，它吸引了中国的病人和老人。
Visitors come seeking exotic medicines, bottles of “longevity water,” visits with centenarians and advice on living healthier lives. Many leave after a few days feeling hopeful and rejuvenated.
访客来这里寻求灵丹妙药、瓶装的“巴马活泉”、拜访百岁老人，以求寻求活得更健康的建议。几天后离开时，很多人满怀希望，觉得自己恢复了活力。
But for people battling grave illnesses over the long term, the experience can be agonizing. Many are drawn by promises of miracles, only to confront setbacks. Others fall victim to scams and doctors with fake credentials.
但对长期和重病作斗争的人来说，这种经历可能会令人非常痛苦。很多人满怀出现奇迹的希望，不料却遭遇挫折。其他一些人成了骗子和资质造假的医生的受害者。
“This is my last hope,” said Li Ming, 57, a retired postal worker from Shanghai, who was told by doctors in December that liver cancer would kill her within a year. “If this doesn’t cure me, I’ll be forced to accept my death sentence.”
“这是我最后的希望，”57岁的退休邮政系统员工李明（音）说。她来自上海，12月被医生告知肝癌可能会在一年内要了她的命。“如果这里治不好我，我就要被迫接受死刑判决了。”
As the number of seniors rapidly increases in China, medical and longevity-themed tourism is blossoming. The Chinese government, hoping to tap into the rising popularity of elder care, has encouraged villages across the country to refashion themselves as longevity destinations.
在中国，随着老年人迅速增加，以医疗和长寿为主题的旅游业蓬勃发展。中国政府希望对越来越受欢迎的老年人护理加以开发利用，鼓励全国各地的村庄把自己重新塑造成长寿游的目的地。
In Bama, once an impoverished backwater, the local government has turned centenarians into celebrities, posting their portraits on billboards and building their homes into shrines. Developers are rapidly buying up land from villagers to build five-star hotels, resorts and luxury housing with names like “Secret Land,” marketing them as retirement investments for health-conscious families.
在曾经贫穷落后的巴马，本地政府让百岁老人成了名人，把他们的肖像印在广告牌上，把他们的家打造称圣地。开发商迅速从村民手中买地，修建五星级酒店、度假村和豪华住宅，还给起上“秘境”这样的名字，作为退休投资推销给重视健康的家庭。
The Chinese news media has heavily promoted the village lore, and scientists are investigating why some residents there live exceptionally long lives. (A 2012 study suggested a genetic variation might partly account for the phenomenon.)
中国的新闻媒体大力宣传这里的传闻，科学家也正在调查这里一些居民的寿命为什么特别长（2012年的一项研究称，这种现象在一定程度上可能是由一种基因变异造成的）。
Each year, more than two million people visit the county, which has a population of 270,000 and a sprightly club of 82 centenarians. These days, tourists arrive by the busload, mainly from northeast China, the southern provinces and Hong Kong. They bring offerings to the centenarians, pestering them for photographs and asking for the secrets to a long life.
人口27万的巴马县有82位精神矍铄的百岁老人。这里每年要接待200多万游客。如今，一车车的游客来到这里，他们主要来自中国东北、南方各省和香港。他们会给百岁老人带来礼物、缠着跟他们合影，并打听长寿的诀窍。
The influx of tourists has created a thriving market for dubious health products. There are endless varieties of “longevity water” — starting at about $600 for a ton — with ads promising an escape from illnesses like diabetes and osteoporosis. Street vendors hawk medicinal sprays said to contain secretions from snakes and scorpions, presenting them as cures for smelly feet, menstrual cramps and arthritis.
游客的涌入为可疑的保健品创造了一个繁荣的市场。有变化无穷的“巴马活泉”——最低价格约为600美元（约合4100元人民币）一吨——广告承诺能让饮用者摆脱糖尿病和骨质疏松等疾病。街头小贩兜售的医用喷雾据称含有蛇和蝎子的分泌物，能治疗脚臭、痛经和关节炎。
The surge in visitors has at times created tensions with residents, who say they are pleased by the economic benefits but worry that the tranquillity of the area has been ruined.
外来人口的激增有时会造成与本地居民关系的紧张。后者表示对经济效益感到高兴，但担心该地区的宁静遭到破坏。
“It used to be quiet and pristine,” said Liu Sujia, a farmer. “Now it’s filled with litter and ill people.”
“过去这里安静、原始，”农民刘素佳（音）说。“现在到处是垃圾和病人。”
Li Hongkang, a doctor who practices traditional Chinese medicine in Bama, said he had seen a long list of patients in recent years, including an actor who portrayed Mao Zedong on television, officials and a billionaire who brought three cars and two nurses for his ailing mother.
巴马的中医李泓慷说，近年来好多人找他看过病，包括一个在电视上演过毛泽东的演员、一些官员和一名亿万富翁，这名富翁为他生病的母亲带了三辆车和两个护士。
He said many visitors were willing to invest small fortunes in health treatments, convinced they could overcome their illnesses in Bama. Most people stay in Bama for a few days, though it is becoming increasingly popular to rent short-term residences.
他说，很多游客愿意在保健治疗上花一小笔钱，相信能在巴马治好自己的病。大部分人只会在巴马待几天，不过租住短期房屋的情况也越来越多了。
“They live a lot better here,” Mr. Li said. “Even if they can’t be cured, it’s much more comfortable.”
“他们在这里过得好多了，”李泓慷说。“就算治不好病，也舒服多了。”
Many visitors to Bama say their health has been transformed, noting that the area is virtually free of pollution, unlike many parts of China. They also point to a high concentration of negatively charged oxygen ions in the regional caves, which scientists say help purify the air.
很多来巴马的人说自己的健康状况发生了改变，称该地区几乎没有污染，不像中国很多地方。他们还提到了该地区山洞里的高浓度负氧离子。科学家称负氧离子有助于净化空气。
Every morning, people file into Baimo, or Hundred Devils, Cave, a natural attraction in the county that is said to harbor special healing powers.
每天早上，人们排队进入百魔洞。这是该县的一处自然景点，据称拥有特殊的康复能力。
First come the cancer patients, whose bodies have been ravaged by the disease. Then the young men battling AIDS, the women cursing the heavens for robbing them of their hair and children as young as 13 with coal miners’ coughs.
先是癌症病人，他们的身体已遭到疾病的摧残。然后是年轻的男性艾滋病患者、咒骂上天夺去了她们的秀发的女性，以及年纪才13岁的尘肺病儿童。
By midday, they are all there, perched atop the cool rocks of the cave. They read spiritual texts, watch soap operas on their cellphones and ask each other whether they believe in the cave’s supposed healing powers.
到正午时分，所有人都还在那里。他们坐在洞内冰凉的石头上，看陶冶性灵的文字、在手机上看肥皂剧、彼此询问信不信这个洞能看好病。
Chen Rangzhi, a former manager of a trading company in Changsha, a southern city, described the area as “magical.” He learned he had lung cancer in 2013 but had stayed healthy, he said, through tai chi exercises inside the cave and a diet heavy in boiled pigeon and apples.
陈让之曾是南方城市长沙一家贸易公司的经理，他说这个地区很“神奇”。他自称在2013年得了肺癌，但通过在洞穴内练习太极拳，大量食用煮鸽子和苹果，他保持了身体健康。
Inside the cave one recent day, Mr. Chen, 62, counseled a group of visitors, advising them to eat dates and drink a glass of hot water every morning. He said that many people wrongly believed that just by visiting Bama they could overcome their illnesses.
近日的一天，在洞穴里，62岁的陈让之为一群游客提供咨询，建议他们每天早晨吃枣，喝一杯热水。他说很多人以为只要到了巴马就可以治好病，这是错误的。
“This place is for nursing your health,” he said. “If the hospital tells you there’s no cure, then even if you come here, there’s still no cure.”
“这地方是养生的，”他说。“如果医院说你这病没法治，即使你来这儿，还是没法治。”
Outside the cave, in an area filled with butterflies and snakewood trees known as the oxygen bar because of the quality of its air, Sun Luyao, 21, watched over her grandmother, 72, who was suffering from lung cancer. Nearby, dozens of seniors threw their arms into the air, soaking in the light.
在洞穴外面，一个满是蝴蝶和蛇纹树、因为空气好而被称为氧吧的地方，21岁孙璐瑶看着72岁患有肺癌的祖母。附近，几十名老年人把手臂伸到空中，晒着太阳。
Ms. Sun, from the northeastern city of Harbin, said she worried the cave had been overrun by tourists and was beginning to lose its healing effects. “If too many people come, the good oxygen will be sucked out,” she said.
孙璐瑶来自东北城市哈尔滨，她说担心这个洞穴被游客挤满了，开始失去治疗效果。她说：“如果太多人来，那这里的氧气就会被吸光了。”
For those who do not improve, the experience of moving to Bama can be draining and disappointing.
对那些病情没有改善的人来说，搬到巴马的经历很折腾人，也很让人失望。
Mr. Wu, a former supervisor at a plant that produced baijiu, a clear Chinese liquor, had a devastating stroke four years ago. He ambles down the streets of Bama with a wooden cane, feeling dizzy and struggling to understand people.
武炜英曾经是一家白酒厂的主管，四年前中风。他拄着木拐在巴马的街道上徘徊，时常感到头晕脑胀，听别人说话很吃力。
Every morning, Mr. Wu takes part in what are called life revival exercises. On the banks of the Panyang River, he throws his arms into the air, twists his waist and slaps his thighs, repeating lines of encouragement along the way (“Surprise yourself! Try harder!”).
武炜英每天早上都参加所谓的生命复原练习。在盘阳河畔，他举起双臂，扭腰，拍打大腿，反复念叨鼓励自己的句子（“震撼自己！努力尝试！”）。
But Mr. Wu still struggles to walk long distances, cook and hold a conversation. His wife has grown tired of living in an area with so many sick people, she said.
但武炜英仍然走不了远路，做饭和说话都很吃力。他的妻子说，她已经厌倦了生活在有这么多病人的地方。
Mr. Wu said he had given up on Bama and would return to his hometown in the northwestern province of Gansu next month.
武炜英说，他不想再待在巴马了，下个月他们将回到西北甘肃省的家乡。
“As long as I can manage my own life and not bother other people, I’ll be fine,” he said. “I just want to be healthy.”
“只要我生活还能自理，不麻烦别人，就行了，”他说。“我只想健健康康的。”