“I feel it.”
“我知道你的感觉。”
My salesclerk at Berluti was an empath. I had just slipped on a pair of Alessandro oxfords, with the rounded toe, on the Milano last ($2,130). The fit was poor: tight around the ball of the foot, loose in the back. There’s nothing quite like the dispiriting feeling of knowing something so attractive and so well made has no hope of being yours.
在伯尔鲁帝(Berluti)的鞋店里，接待我的这名销售简直是位通灵人士，因为我的脚才刚刚塞进一双圆鞋头的Alessandro牛津鞋，这是Milano系列的新款（售价2130美元，约合人民币13258元）。但这双鞋很不合脚：前脚掌裹得太紧，后脚跟却又太松。没法形容这种灰心丧气的感觉，明知某件东西做工极致，又如此诱人，却完全不能属于你。
“I feel it,” he repeated, ushering my feet out of the shoes. A different Alessandro, on the Démesures last, would fit better, he said. It had a pointy, squared-off toe — not my preference, but I accepted the guidance and slid my foot in.
“我知道你的感觉，”他喋喋不休，催着我把脚从鞋里抽出来。还有一双Alessandro的皮鞋，Démesures系列的新款，应该更适合你，他说。那双是前面有点尖的方形鞋头，并非我喜欢的类型，但我还是接受了导购的建议，把脚塞了进去。
“You can hear it, you can hear the displacement of air,” the clerk said, tying off the shoe with the signature Berluti knot. And indeed, the right amount of air had been displaced, the shoe fit perfectly — my foot, not my wallet.
“你可以听，你可以听跑出来的气流声，”这位店员说着，在鞋上绑了个标志性的伯尔鲁帝结。确实如此，适量的空气换了位，这双鞋不大不小，刚好合适——我的脚，而非我的钱包。
I first read about Berluti more than a decade ago in an interview with the British designer Ozwald Boateng, who spoke rapturously of the service he had received at the store on his first visit: attentive conversation about preferences, a foot rub and so on.
我第一次听说伯尔鲁帝，是十多年前在一次对英国设计师奥兹瓦尔·鲍疼(Ozwarl Boateng)的采访中，他眉飞色舞地谈起第一次去该店购物得到的服务：店员体贴细致地问你喜不喜欢，还给你的脚底做做按摩，诸如此类。
I didn’t get a foot rub, but the shoes were presented to me on an outstretched palm and forearm, and my clerk instantly identified that my right foot is slightly larger than my left. It’s this attention to detail and presentation that has kept Berluti, founded in 1895, one of the most impressive luxury footwear makers in the world, and one of the least accessible.
我没享受到脚底按摩服务，相反，这双鞋是托在一只手掌上，伸出一只胳膊递给我的，而且接待我的店员立刻指出，我的右脚比左脚稍微大了一点。正是这种对细节与展示的一丝不苟，才让创建于1895年的伯尔鲁帝品牌，成为世界上最为惊人的鞋类奢侈品之一，也是最难企及的奢侈品之一。
The old store, on the corner of 76th and Madison, was deeply warm, almost private. But this month, Berluti moved to a two-floor space on the same block as Church’s and Brunello Cucinelli, one block away from Hermès and Barneys. The reason: In 2011, Berluti hired Alessandro Sartori, who for years had been creative director at Z Zegna, to expand the heritage footwear maker with a full ultra-luxe ready-to-wear line.
该品牌位于麦迪逊大道与76街交汇处的这家老店面暖意融融，而且几乎远离闹市。但本月，伯尔鲁帝搬到了与Church’s和Brunello Cucinelli品牌位于同一街区的一间两层楼店面中，距离爱马仕(Hermès)与巴尼斯(Barneys)也只有一条街区。搬家的原因是，2011年，伯尔鲁帝聘请了在Z Zegna担任了多年创意总监的亚历山德罗·萨托利(Alessandro Sartori)，来打造一系列超豪华的成衣产品，以扩展这家传统鞋业制造商的产品线。
How to do that without sacrificing Berluti’s old-world charm? Well, first you have to accept that the persistence of old-world charm in the modern world is in and of itself an act of exclusivity. And so the invention, from whole cloth, of a new luxury line isn’t so different from the preservation of the old way of doing things. They both thumb their noses at how the rest of the world lives.
但是该怎样达成目标，而不用牺牲伯尔鲁帝品牌的传统魅力呢？好吧，首先你不得不接受，在现代世界中坚守传统魅力，从本质上说就是一种特立独行的表现。所以凭空创造一种新的奢侈品，与顽固守旧也没有太大差别。反正都是对世上其他人如何生活表示嗤之以鼻。
So as go the old shoes, so go the new clothes, insane in fabric and detail and price. This is oligarch chic, a combination of clever innovations and tacky design choices, borrowing from Italian and British traditions. A beautiful navy woven cotton blazer had a suede pocket secreted away inside its main pocket ($2,150), and a pair of rust twill pants with leather accents felt almost Gore-Tex thick ($900). One pair of pants, prominently displayed in the window, was a striking light plaid, white and blue, in a silk and linen blend ($1,060). There were several unstructured cashmere blazers in gorgeous patterns, even if they did have unusually high armholes.
原有的鞋类品牌怎样经营，新的成衣品牌就怎样经营，极端的面料、离谱的做工、不可思议的价格。这就是唯我独尊的时尚巨头，是巧妙创意与借鉴了意大利与英国传统的市侩设计两者合二为一。一件漂亮的深蓝色棉织休闲西服，上衣口袋里套着一个隐秘的仿麂皮小口袋（售价2150美元，约合人民币13383元），还有一条锈色斜纹布长裤，带高光皮革质感，厚度堪比戈尔特斯(Gore-Tex)面料（售价900美元，约合人民币5602元）。一条突出展示在橱窗中的长裤，带有醒目的格子图案，蓝白相间的颜色，丝绸与亚麻混纺面料（售价1060美元，约合人民币6598元），还有几件松松垮垮的羊绒休闲西服，样式华丽，即便那几个袖孔高得确实不太一般。
These pieces were more successful than the denim options, particularly the coat with leather accents, including a collarpiece, that had an unfortunate luxe rodeo air ($4,300). And on the technical side, the cuts were inconsistent: the pants generally too generous, the blazers too slim.
这几件衣服比斜纹粗棉布的那几件要成功得多，尤其是那件高光皮革的外套，上面的衣领带着一种格格不入的攀比豪华之姿（售价4300美元，约合人民币26765元）。而在做工方面，这些衣服的剪裁设计都缺乏协调性：长裤过于宽松，上衣又过于苗条。
But there was at least one marquee piece, the sort of item that requires no apology, only a bank loan. It was a black inverted shearling coat, with the fur on the outside ($8,700), a thing of real majesty. You can’t unwear this coat. It’s the sort of coat Rick Ross would wear in the middle of the summer, shirtless underneath, just to prove how resilient he is. It was elegant and also edgy, pure peacock. The clerk informed me that just the day before, someone had bought one. That man is a hero.
但至少还有一件标新立异的产品，就是那种不要求你道歉，只要求你给钱的款型。这是件黑色的反转羊毛皮外套，羊皮那面对外（售价8700美元，约合人民币54153元），相当威武的一款。你穿上就不想脱下来了。这种款型，里克·罗斯(Rick Ross)即使在盛夏也会穿在身上，而且里面还不穿衬衫，只为了证明他有多么坚韧不拔。它又得体又前卫，纯粹显摆。这位店员告诉我，就在前一天，已经有人买走了一件。那位仁兄真是英雄。
Said jacket aside, what the clothes lacked, even the beautiful ones (insofar as items that cost this much can lack something), was the roguish quality of the shoes. Berluti is a nontraditional high-end cobbler. It makes idiosyncratic shapes, and often debosses and scars its leather. Those features remain, on the shoes, and also the wallets and belts. But the clothes are more conventionally aspirational: They telegraph wealth, while the shoes telegraph wealth that stopped caring a long time ago.
撇开上述夹克衫不谈，他们的衣服，即使十分华丽的那几件，所缺乏的东西（若贵到如此地步的衣服还能缺点什么的话），就是该品牌皮鞋所具备的那种让人爱屋及乌的品质。伯尔鲁帝属于非传统的高端鞋匠。他们制造一些外形不伦不类的鞋，皮面常常凹陷或有刮痕。这种特征亘古不变，鞋如此，钱包、皮带亦如此。但他们的衣服倒更有一种司空见惯的企图心：那些衣服诠释着富有，而那些鞋子诠释着早已目空一切的富有。
The longer you’re in the store, the more sense the brand’s eccentricities make. I was drawn to the Paulin shoe, which had a slight tuck in the leather on the outer edge, creating a lip ($1,450). And after that, to the Gaspard, which reads as a simple cap toe from a distance, but the line across the foot is actually an incision by hand, inspired by the artist Lucio Fontana, known for scarring his canvases ($2,260).
你在这家商店逗留越久，这个品牌的古怪就越发理所当然。我被Paulin系列的这双鞋子吸引了，它的外侧边缘稍微往皮革中缩了一点，形成了嘴唇的形状（售价1450美元，约合人民币9026元）。试过这双鞋，逛到Gaspard系列，从远处看，那就像一双简单的开普托鞋，但鞋面的那条分割线真的是手工切开的，其灵感来源于艺术家卢齐欧·封塔纳(Lucio Fontana)帆布画上的刀痕（售价2260美元，约合人民币14067元）。
I hate cap toes, I told the clerk, who by this time had become a full co-conspirator. Before I could get the words out, he whispered, “This is a middle finger to the cap toe.” We both laughed.
我讨厌开普托鞋，我对店员说道，这一次，他完全成了我的共谋。我还没来得急把话说完，他就对我窃窃私语道，“这款设计，就是对开普托鞋竖着的中指。”我俩都大笑起来。