Chris Hughes, the owner of The New Republic, said on Friday that he had sold the magazine to Win McCormack, a publisher and editor based in New York and Portland, Ore., who founded the literary quarterly Tin House.
周五，《新共和》(The New Republic)的所有者克里斯·休斯(Chris Hughes)宣布，他已经把这本杂志卖给了温·麦科马克(Win McCormack)。麦科马克是在纽约和俄勒冈州波特兰市工作的出版人和编辑，曾创办文学季刊《锡房子》(Tin House)。
Mr. McCormack will appoint Hamilton Fish, the publisher of The Washington Spectator and a former publisher of The Nation, to be publisher and editorial director, The New Republic said.
《新共和》称，麦科马克将任命《华盛顿观察家》(The Washington Spectator)的出版人汉密尔顿·菲什(Hamilton Fish)担任出版人和编辑部主任。菲什也是《国家》(The Nation)的前出版人。
Mr. Hughes, a Facebook founder whose tenure at the magazine was marked by turmoil, including the resignations of multiple employees protesting his decision to replace its top editor, signaled an intention to sell last month. Mr. McCormack’s and Mr. Fish’s backgrounds in journalism and progressive politics, he said, “make them uniquely qualified to lead such a historic institution. I look forward to watching their progress over the years to come.”
休斯是Facebook的创始人之一。该杂志归他所有期间充满动荡，包括多名员工因抗议他更换主编的决定而辞职。上个月，他表明出售杂志的意向。他说，麦科马克和菲什在新闻业和进步派政治观念方面的背景“让他们特别适合领导这样一个历史悠久的机构。我期待未来看到他们的进步”。
The Washington Spectator is a nonprofit liberal publication that, its website says, reports “on the excesses of the public and private sectors that distort our politics and undermine democracy.’’
《华盛顿观察家》的网站称，该杂志是一个非盈利的自由派出版物，报道“公共和私营部门曲解政治、损害民主的过分行为”。
Mr. McCormack, an active Democratic fund-raiser, is the author of a book that details the sexual indiscretions of Republican politicians who espouse family values. Mr. Fish, who also produces documentary films, comes from a long line of Republican lawmakers. In 1988, he sought the Democratic nomination for the same Westchester County congressional seat his forbears had held, but was defeated.
麦科马克是一位积极的民主党募捐人，曾出版过一本书，详细讲述信奉家庭价值观的共和党政客们性生活的不检点。菲什的多位先辈曾是共和党立法者，他本人也制作纪录片。1988年，他曾谋求获得韦斯特切斯特县议会的民主党提名——他的多位先辈曾拥有该县议会的席位——但是失败了。
The magazine did not make Mr. McCormack, Mr. Fish or Mr. Hughes available for interviews, or disclose the terms of the sale. But Mr. McCormack said in a statement that he intended to stay true to The New Republic’s traditions and preserve “the journal as an important voice in a new debate over how the basic principles of liberalism can be reworked to meet the equally demanding challenges of our era.”
该杂志没有提供采访麦科马克、菲什或休斯的机会，也没有透露这次出售的具体条款。但是麦科马克在一项声明中表示，他打算忠于《新共和》的传统，令“这本杂志在如何修订自由主义的基本原则、迎接我们这个时代同样苛刻的挑战这一新的争论中，始终作为一个重要的声音存在”。
The sale caps a troubled four years at the helm for Mr. Hughes. When he bought the magazine many hoped that the combination of his Silicon Valley experience and the storied history of the publication — which has published George Orwell, Virginia Woolf and Philip Roth, and has a reputation for producing talented editors and writers — would prove formidable.
休斯执掌这本杂志的四年麻烦不断，这次出售做了个了结。他买下这本杂志时，很多人希望他的硅谷经验和著名的出版历史——他曾出版过乔治·奥威尔(George Orwell)、弗吉尼亚·伍尔夫(Virginia Woolf)和菲利普·罗思(Philip Roth)的书——会让他取得巨大的成功。
Instead, a new chief executive he installed clashed with the magazine’s editor, Franklin Foer. When word got out in late 2014 that Mr. Hughes had decided to name a new top editor, Mr. Foer resigned and was followed by a dozen staff employees and dozens of contributing editors, forcing The New Republic to cancel an issue.
但实际情况是，他安排的新任首席执行官与杂志主编富兰克林·福尔(Franklin Foer)不和。2014年底，当休斯决定任命一位新主编的消息传出后，福尔辞职，十几名员工和几十名特约编辑也跟着辞职，当期的《新共和》因此无法出版。
In a letter last month announcing his intention to sell, Mr. Hughes said that he had spent more than $20 million on the magazine, but had “underestimated the difficulty of transitioning an old and traditional institution into a digital media company in today’s quickly evolving climate.”
上个月，休斯通过一封公开信宣布出售意向，他说自己在这本杂志上花费了2000多万美元，但是“低估了在如今快速变化的时代把一个古老传统的机构转变成数字媒体公司的难度”。
Shortly after Mr. Hughes released that letter, the magazine’s current top editor, Gabriel Snyder, posted a message on Twitter saying that the magazine’s staff was “focused on what we do every day: trying to make great journalism.”
休斯发布这封信之后不久，杂志现任主编加布里埃尔·斯奈德(Gabriel Snyder)在Twitter上发了一条消息，称该杂志的员工正“集中精力在做我们每天都在做的事情：努力做出伟大的新闻”。