Outsiders often think of Silicon Valley as a constantly changing landscape, a place where fortunes rise and fall with the next great idea. Now some of the technology industry’s biggest names are finding out that once you fall behind, it is pretty hard to catch up.
局外人往往认为，硅谷是个瞬息万变的地方，运势随着下一个伟大创意而起伏。现在，一些科技业巨头却发现，一旦落后就很难再追回来。
On Wednesday, Hewlett-Packard announced several significant personnel changes, along with sharply lower revenue and narrower operating profit margins. It was the latest in a string of disappointing earnings news from big technology companies that has some asking if the industry, after at least five years of growth, is finally slowing down.
本周三，惠普(Hewlett-Packard)宣布，公司收入急剧下降、运营利润率也大幅收窄，将进行几项重大人事变动。这是来自科技业巨头的一连串令人失望的财报中的最新一例，令一些人不禁问道，在经历了至少五年的增长之后，科技业是否终于在放缓了。
“We’re doing a turnaround in not the greatest economic environment,” said Meg Whitman, H.P.’s chief executive, in an interview. “Everyone is trying to position themselves for the new style of information technology. The fittest will survive.”
惠普的首席执行官梅格‧惠特曼(Meg Whitman)接受采访称，“我们正在不太理想的经济环境中进行转型。每个人都在努力适应新型信息技术。最适者生存。”
But the bad earnings news from older, big tech companies does not — so far — appear to be spreading to more youthful Internet companies like Google or Salesforce.com, which provide their software as a service over the Internet.
老牌科技巨头的糟糕财报似乎尚未蔓延至谷歌(Google)或Salesforce.com等比较年轻的互联网企业，后者的业务是通过互联网以服务的形式出售软件。
H.P.’s news, for example, comes on the heels of surprising plans announced last week to cut about 5 percent of the work force at the network computing company Cisco Systems and continuing issues at giant tech companies like Oracle, Intel and even Microsoft.
比方说，就在惠普公布财报之前，网络计算公司思科(Cisco Systems)上周出人预料地宣布，计划削减约5%的劳动力。甲骨文(Oracle)、英特尔(Intel)，乃至微软(Microsoft)等科技业巨头也麻烦不断。
If there is a common thread among these older outfits, long considered bellwethers for their industry, it is that they are all struggling to adapt to a computing world where people use the Internet on mobile devices like smartphones and tablets. Likewise, the information they retrieve is stored in a cloud of network computers that are used by many companies at the same time.
长期以来，这些老牌企业一直被认为是行业领头羊。如果说有何共同之处的话，那就是它们都在艰难地适应新的计算机世界。在这里，人们上网的工具是智能手机和平板电脑这样的移动设备。同样地，它们检索的信息也储存在许多企业同时使用的联网计算机组成的云端。
In some cases, they are big makers of things like personal computers, which people are not buying as quickly as they once did. In other cases, they are making costly corporate computing equipment like routers, which direct traffic on Internet networks. Those routers are still in demand, but they don’t typically attract the prices they once did.
它们中间，有一部分是个人电脑等产品的大制造商，而人们购买此类产品的速度已经今不如昔。还有一些公司是生产昂贵的企业计算设备的，比如引导互联网流量的路由器。对这些路由器的需求仍然存在，但价格往往难以企及以前的水平。
“All the traditional enterprises are in a pickle,” said Krish Ramakrishnan, a former general manager at Cisco who now runs Blue Jeans Network, a cloud-based videoconferencing service. “They want to have cloud businesses, but each of their divisions will have to transform differently.”
克里什·拉马克里希南(Krish Ramakrishnan)曾在思科任总经理，如今经营着云端视频会议服务企业蓝牛仔裤网络(Blue Jeans Network)。他说，“所有的传统企业都面临困境。它们希望拥有云端的业务，但旗下每个部门都必须进行不一样的改革。”
For H.P., a leader in personal computers, printers and computer servers, as well as data storage and networking, sales were down in almost every business. Total revenue was $27.2 billion, down 8 percent from a year earlier. Net earnings were $1.4 billion and, excluding special charges, were about 15 percent below their year-ago level. H.P. stock, which fell 1.8 percent in regular trading on Wednesday, dropped 6 percent more in after-hours trading.
惠普是个人电脑、打印机、电脑服务器、以及数据储存与联网领域的领导者，但几乎每项业务的销售额都在下降。公司总营收为272亿美元（约合1665亿元人民币），同比下滑8%；净收益为14亿美元，不计特殊项目，同比下滑了约15%。周三，惠普的股价在正常交易时段里下跌了1.8%，盘后交易再跌6%。
If it is any consolation, Ms. Whitman has plenty of company. Michael S. Dell, the chief executive of the computer maker Dell, is fighting to take his company private, a move that will almost certainly mean layoffs as the company moves away from selling personal computers, a once-good business that has gone bad thanks to the shift to tablet computing devices.
如果说有什么算得上慰籍的话，那就是惠特曼并不孤单。电脑生产商戴尔(Dell)的首席执行官迈克尔·S·戴尔(Michael S. Dell)正为将自己的公司私有化而奋战。随着公司逐步脱离个人电脑销售业务，私有化将几乎肯定意味着裁员。由于大众转向了平板电脑设备，个人电脑业务已由盛转衰。
And at Cisco, sales are still strong, but John T. Chambers, the company’s chief executive, signaled trouble ahead with his job cuts, which he said were necessary because of economic “uncertainty.”
思科的销售仍属强劲，但公司首席执行官约翰·T·钱伯斯(John T. Chambers)也通过裁员发出了前景堪忧的信号。他声称，由于经济的“不确定性”，裁员是必要之举。
While there is no doubt there are broader economic issues affecting big-ticket tech sales — particularly in Asia, where Cisco’s sales were off 3 percent from the same quarter last year — analysts believe Mr. Chambers’ economic discussion fails to address the technology changes with which Cisco is trying to cope. In recent years, the company has faced a series of cheaper competitors, many of which rely more on software and off-the-shelf components, as compared with Cisco’s custom-made equipment.
大宗科技产品销售无疑会受到经济大局的影响——尤其是在亚洲，思科在那里的季度销售额同比下滑了3%，但分析师们认为，钱伯斯对经济的阐述未能提及思科在技术革新面前该如何应对。近年来，思科面临一系列采取廉价策略的竞争对手。与思科度身定制的设备不同，许多对手更多地倚仗软件和现成的组件。
“They have to generate revenue from what they have always done, while they invest in a future that’s very different, and change around their organization,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan. “They have to move from selling mostly hardware, to selling software, while all the sharks are feeding off them.”
“它们必须从传统业务中获利，同时投资于迥异的未来，对企业上下进行改革，”拉马克里希南说。“它们得从主要销售硬件转向销售软件，而所有的鲨鱼都在吞食它们。”
That Intel is challenged in this new, more mobile environment is perhaps even more remarkable. Intel, after all, is often cited as one of the rare tech companies that saw a major change coming — in this case, it was wide adoption of PCs more than two decades ago — and adapted its business to take advantage. But those same executives acknowledged they have not moved quickly enough to build chips for mobile devices, and now they are working hard to catch up.
英特尔在移动程度更高的新环境里也受到了挑战，这或许更值得注意。毕竟，英特尔常被引为科技界少有的曾预见到未来的大变局并调整业务占得先机的公司之一，它20多年前就预见到PC的普及。但是，同样那些高管也承认，他们没能及时转到为移动设备打造芯片的业务上，如今正努力迎头赶上。
On a very personal level for employees of these companies, it’s an odd time. Many, particularly early employees, were there when their innovations and more-affordable products displaced the last generation of big tech companies. Now they’re on the downside of that cycle.
对这些公司的员工个人而言，这是一个特殊的时期。许多人，尤其是老员工，亲眼目睹了自己当年的创新及价格更适宜的产品颠覆了上一代的科技巨头。现如今，他们却成为了前浪。
“Every emotion imaginable plays out,” said Patrick Gelsinger, who worked at Intel for 30 years and is now the chief executive of VMware, a company that makes software used in cloud computing.
“万般滋味涌上心头啊，”，帕特里克·格尔辛格(Patrick Gelsinger)说。他曾为英特尔工作了30年，现在是为云计算打造软件的VMware公司的首席执行官。
“Some folks are hoping to retire and their 401(k) is big enough,” Mr. Gelsinger said. “Some are disheartened because they couldn’t figure out how to adapt. Some are still putting their heads down.”
“有些家伙希望退休，他们的退休账户也足够用了，”格尔辛格说，“有些人很沮丧，因为他们没能想出适应的办法。还有些人仍然在埋头苦干。”