ATHENS — A Greek archaeologist who has been leading a 20-year excavation in northern Greece said on Thursday that he believed he had unearthed the tomb of Aristotle.
雅典——一名考古学家本周四表示，他相信自己已经发现了亚里士多德的陵墓。这名考古学家在希腊北部主持了一项为期20年的发掘工作。
In an address at a conference in Thessaloniki, Greece, commemorating the 2,400th anniversary of Aristotle’s birth, the archaeologist, Konstantinos Sismanidis, said he had “no proof but strong indications, as certain as one can be,” to support his claim.
在希腊塞萨洛尼基举行的一个纪念亚里士多德诞生2400周年的会议上，考古学家康斯坦丁罗斯·塞斯曼尼迪斯(Konstantinos Sismanidis)发言说，“虽然没有证据，但有极为明显的迹象”来支持他的说法。
The tomb was in a structure unearthed in the ancient village of Stagira, where Aristotle was born, about 40 miles east of Thessaloniki. According to Mr. Sismanidis, the structure was a monument erected in Aristotle’s honor after his death in 322 B.C.
陵墓是在亚里士多德的出生地斯塔基拉古村落出土的一个建筑中发现的，位于塞萨洛尼基以东约40英里。据塞斯曼尼迪斯说，亚里士多德在公元前322年去世后，人们修建了这座建筑来纪念他。
“We had found the tomb,” he said. “We’ve now also found the altar referred to in ancient texts, as well as the road leading to the tomb, which was very close to the city’s ancient marketplace within the city settlement.”
“我们已经找到了陵墓，”他说。“我们还发现了古代文献中提到的祭坛，以及通往陵墓的道路，它与城市聚落内的古市场非常靠近。”
Although the evidence of whose tomb it was is circumstantial, several characteristics — its location and panoramic view; its positioning at the center of a square marble floor; and the time of its construction, estimated to be at the very beginning of the Hellenistic period, which started after the death of Aristotle’s most famous student, Alexander the Great, in 323 B.C. — “all lead to the conclusion that the remains of the arched structure are part of what was once the tomb-shrine of Aristotle,” Mr. Sismanidis said.
虽然陵墓主人身份的证据是间接的，但它具备的几个特征——它的位置和广阔视野；它位于一片方形大理石地面的中心；以及它的修建时期——大约是希腊化时期刚刚开始的时候，也就是亚里士多德最著名的学生亚历山大大帝在公元前323年去世之后——“全部都支持一个结论：这个拱形结构遗迹是亚里士多德曾经的墓祠的组成部分，”塞斯曼尼迪斯说。
Aristotle, who was born in 384 B.C., was a pupil of Plato in Athens and became a crucial figure in the emergence of Western philosophy. His work forms the basis of modern logic, and his metaphysics became an integral part of Christian theology. His “Poetics” still offers penetrating analysis of what works, and does not work, in theater. King Philip II of Macedon engaged him as a tutor to his son Alexander.
亚里士多德出生于公元前384年，是柏拉图在雅典的学生，也是西方哲学形成的一个关键人物。他的作品构成了现代逻辑的基础，他的形而上学成为了基督教神学的一个固有组成部分。他的《诗学》对戏剧原理的分析至今发人深省。马其顿国王腓力二世(Philip II)邀请他为儿子亚历山大当导师。
A separate excavation in another part of northern Greece, Amphipolis, in 2014 led to the discovery of the largest ancient tomb ever found in the country. Speculation linking the tomb to Alexander the Great set off huge media interest, but archaeologists later concluded that it had probably been built for a close companion of the king and conqueror.
2014年在希腊北部的安菲波利斯进行的另一项发掘工作中，考古学家发现了该国最大的古代陵墓。有人把那座陵墓与亚历山大大帝联系到一起，引起了媒体的巨大兴趣，但后来考古学家得出的结论是，它可能属于这位国王和征服者的亲密友人。