WASHINGTON — The Senate confirmed Janet L. Yellen as the chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, marking the first time that a woman has led the country’s central bank in its 100-year history.
华盛顿——参议院批准珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)出任美联储(Federal Reserve)主席，百年历史的美国央行迎来了首位女掌门人。
As a Fed official, Ms. Yellen, 67, has been an influential proponent of the Fed’s extraordinary measures to revive the economy, even though interest rates are already close to zero. But as chairwoman, Ms. Yellen’s arduous task will be to oversee the gradual unwinding of those extraordinary measures, despite an uncomfortably high unemployment rate of 7 percent and subdued inflation.
作为美联储的一名官员，67岁的耶伦一直是美联储旨在振兴经济的特别措施的强有力推动者，尽管利率已经低到了接近于零的水平。不过，就任美联储主席之后，耶伦的艰巨任务却是监督这些特别措施的逐步取消，尽管美国的失业率依然高达7%，通货膨胀率也不高。
During the confirmation process, senators from both sides of the aisle criticized the Fed for not doing enough to aid the economy and help middle-class Americans, and for trying to do too much, thus distorting the markets and risking new bubbles.
在提名确认过程中，两党参议员均指责美联储未能为提振经济和帮助美国中产阶级做出足够的努力，并且因试图过度干预而扭曲了市场，带来了出现新泡沫的风险。
“I fear that they are already way too deep,” said Senator Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican, on the Senate floor, before the confirmation vote. Mr. Grassley questioned how the Fed would taper its recent campaign of large-scale asset purchases “without spooking investors,” and whether it might stoke inflation.
“恐怕他们已经走得太远，”确认投票开始之前，艾奥瓦州共和党参议员查克·格拉斯利(Charles Grassley)在参议院说。格拉斯利质疑美联储如何能在“不引起投资者恐慌的情况下”逐步放缓最近的大规模资产购买行动，还担心美联储可能会加剧通货膨胀。
Despite those objections, Ms. Yellen won confirmation easily. Ms. Yellen will be the first Democratic nominee to run the Fed since President Jimmy Carter named Paul Volcker as chairman in 1979. Ms. Yellen, who is known for being meticulous and bookish, steps into the position as the Fed shifts strategy. In December, the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, announced that the Fed would start to taper its purchases of Treasury and mortgage-backed debt to a pace of $75 billion a month from $85 billion a month. The decision came as new data showed stronger economic growth and a significant drop in the unemployment rate, to 7 percent in November from 7.8 percent a year before.
尽管存在这些反对意见，耶伦依然轻松地获得了通过。在吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)1979年提名保罗·沃尔克(Paul Volcker)担任美联储主席后，耶伦是首位被提名掌舵美联储的民主党人。以严谨和书生气出名的耶伦出任美联储主席之际，美联储正在调整战略。去年12月，上一任主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)宣布，美联储将开始把国债和抵押债券的购买额从现在的每月850亿美元（约合5161亿元人民币）降至每月750亿美元。美联储做出这一决定时，新数据显示经济增长提速，失业率大幅下降，从一年前的7.8%降至11月的7%。
The Fed’s decision “to modestly reduce the pace of asset purchases at its December meeting did not indicate any diminution of its commitment to maintain a highly accommodative monetary policy for as long as needed,” Mr. Bernanke said at a speech this month, reflecting on his tenure. “It reflected the progress we have made toward our goal of substantial improvement in the labor market outlook.”
伯南克在本月的一次讲话中回顾了自己的任期，称美联储“在12月的会议上决定适度放慢资产购买的速度，但这并不表明，美联储在需要时维持高度宽松货币政策的承诺有任何减弱。这个决定反映的是我们在大幅改善就业市场前景这个目标上取得的进步。”
Ms. Yellen voted to start to ease the Fed’s asset purchases in December, alongside all but one of her colleagues on the Fed’s policy-making committee.
耶伦在12月投票赞成开始削减美联储的资产购买规模，美联储的政策制定委员会里只有一名同事与她意见相左。
Fed watchers have warned that withdrawing support from the economy either too soon or too late comes with significant risks: of subpar growth on one hand and overheating markets on the other.
美联储观察人士警告称，过早或过迟撤回经济提振措施都会带来巨大的风险：前者会导致经济增长不尽人意，后者会导致市场过热。
“The Fed will need to exercise caution as it scales back further on its pace of asset purchases,” David J. Stockton of the Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics said in an analysis of the challenges that lie ahead for Ms. Yellen. “We have experienced several episodes in the past few years when a burst of favorable data led to increased optimism that soon proved unwarranted.”
“进一步缩减资产购买规模的时候，美联储需要小心谨慎，”彼得森国际经济研究所(Peter G. Peterson Institute for International Economics)的戴维·J·斯托克顿(David J. Stockton)在分析耶伦面临的挑战时说。“突如其来的大量有利数据增加了人们的乐观情绪，事实又很快证明这种情绪并无依据，过去几年，我们曾多次经历这种情况。”
He continued: “To be sure, the Fed could taper purchases now and then ramp them back up should economic results fall short. But reversing course like that would be a difficult maneuver to execute and communicate.”
他还说：“毫无疑问，美联储现在可以缩减购买规模，再在经济表现不如人意的情况下重新扩大购买规模。但是，这样的逆向措施将很难执行和传达。”
There are already signs that the Fed’s decision to ease up on stimulus has affected lending activity. Interest rates on 30-year mortgages jumped after Mr. Bernanke indicated the Fed might start to reduce its asset purchases last year, although rates are low by historical standards.
已有迹象表明，美联储减少刺激手段的决定已经对借贷活动造成了影响。去年，在伯南克暗示美联储可能会开始减少资产购买规模之后，30年期抵押贷款的利率开始迅速增加，虽然以历史标准衡量，该利率仍处低位。
In her confirmation testimony, Ms. Yellen stressed that the Fed’s extraordinary measures were bolstering growth, even if the pace of the economy’s expansion had been frustratingly sluggish at times. She also said that the Fed’s policies had helped not only Wall Street, but Main Street.
耶伦在提名确认听证会上强调，美联储的特别措施促进了经济增长，尽管经济的扩张速度有时慢得令人沮丧。她还说，美联储的政策不仅有利于华尔街，还有利于普通经济体。
The bank’s stimulus campaign has “made a meaningful contribution to economic growth,” Ms. Yellen said. “The ripple effects go through the economy and bring benefits to, I would say, all Americans.”
美联储的刺激计划“为经济增长做出了有意义的贡献”，耶伦说。“我想说，它的连锁效应影响到了整个经济体，给所有美国人带来了好处。”