Once upon a time, walking around shouting “The end is nigh” got you labeled a kook, someone not to be taken seriously. These days, however, all the best people go around warning of looming disaster. In fact, you more or less have to subscribe to fantasies of fiscal apocalypse to be considered respectable.
过去，如果一个人到处声张“世界末日就要来了”，那么他就会被贴上怪人的标签，别人也不会把他当回事儿。而现在呢，所有优秀的人都在警告灾难即将到来。事实上，想要被人尊重，你或多或少都必须认可财政末日这个白日梦。
And I do mean fantasies. Washington has spent the past three-plus years in terror of a debt crisis that keeps not happening, and, in fact, can’t happen to a country like the United States, which has its own currency and borrows in that currency. Yet the scaremongers can’t bring themselves to let go.
没错，我说的就是白日梦。在过去三年多的时间里，整个华盛顿生活在对债务危机的恐惧里。虽然在美国这样的国家，这种危机一直没有发生也不会发生，因为美国自己发行美元，而且以美元负债。但是，那些散布恐惧情绪的人就是不肯罢手。
Consider, for example, Stanley Druckenmiller, the billionaire investor, who has lately made a splash with warnings about the burden of our entitlement programs. (Gee, why hasn’t anyone else thought of making that point?) He could talk about the problems we may face a decade or two down the road. But, no. He seems to feel that he must warn about the looming threat of a financial crisis worse than 2008.
比方说，请思考一下亿万富豪投资人斯坦利·德鲁肯米勒(Stanley Druckenmiller)。最近，他对福利项目的负担发出了警告，这引发了轩然大波。（天啊，怎么别人没有想到这么一个论点？）他当然可以谈论那些十几二十年之后可能出现的问题。结果，他谈的不是这个。他似乎感到有必要警示大家，一次比2008年更加惨痛的金融危机正迫在眉睫。
Or consider the deficit-scold organization Fix the Debt, led by the omnipresent Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles. It was, I suppose, predictable that Fix the Debt would respond to the latest budget deal with a press release trying to shift the focus to its favorite subject. But the organization wasn’t content with declaring that America’s long-run budget issues remain unresolved, which is true. It had to warn that “continuing to delay confronting our debt is letting a fire burn that could get out of control at any moment.”
还请大家考虑一下反对财政赤字的组织“解决债务问题”(Fix the Debt)，该组织的领导人是无所不在的艾伦·辛普森(Alan Simpson)和厄尔什金·鲍尔斯(Erskine Bowles)。在我眼里，该组织如预期一样就当前的预算协议发布新闻稿，把焦点转向他们最喜爱的议题。但是，他们不满足于宣称，美国长期存在的预算问题并未得到解决（这当然是正确的）。他们还非得警告说，“如果继续拖延，不去面对我们的债务问题，就相当于放任火情蔓延，这样情况随时都有可能失控。”
As I’ve already suggested, there are two remarkable things about this kind of doomsaying. One is that the doomsayers haven’t rethought their premises despite being wrong again and again — perhaps because the news media continue to treat them with immense respect. The other is that as far as I can tell nobody, and I mean nobody, in the looming-apocalypse camp has tried to explain exactly how the predicted disaster would actually work.
我之前就已经提过，对于这类末世预言，有两点颇为有意思。首先就是，这些末世预言家一次又一次地错了，却没有反思自己言论的前提——背后原因可能是，新闻媒体对于他们总是抱有极大敬意。在我看来还有一点，就是在这些“灾难即将到来”阵营里，没有人，我说的是没有任何人，曾经试着解释一下，这些在预测中将要出现的灾难，背后的原理究竟是什么。
On the Chicken Little aspect: It’s actually awesome, in a way, to realize how long cries of looming disaster have filled our airwaves and op-ed pages. For example, I just reread an op-ed article by Alan Greenspan in The Wall Street Journal, warning that our budget deficit will lead to soaring inflation and interest rates. What about the reality of low inflation and low rates? That, he declares in the article, is “regrettable, because it is fostering a sense of complacency.”
如果你意识到，这些对灾难即将到来的宣传，长期以来霸占着我们的广播频率和报纸的来论版面，那么从这些发表悲观言论的人的角度上说，其实这还真不错。比方说，我刚刚重读了艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)在《华尔街日报》上的来论文章，他警告说，我们的预算赤字将会导致通胀和利率高企。那么现实中为何出现了低通胀和低利率这种结果？他在文章中说，结果是“令人遗憾的，因为这让人们放松了警惕。”
It’s curious how readily people who normally revere the wisdom of markets declare the markets all wrong when they fail to panic the way they’re supposed to. But the really striking thing at this point is the date: Mr. Greenspan’s article was published in June 2010, almost three and a half years ago — and both inflation and interest rates remain low.
很有意思的是，那些通常敬畏市场智慧的人，只要市场没有按照他的意见而恐慌，就会不假思索地宣称市场是错的。不过，最引人瞩目的，是这则预言的时间点：格林斯潘的文章发表在2010年6月，距今天将近三年半的时间——但是现在，通货膨胀和利率仍然很低。
So has the ex-Maestro reconsidered his views after having been so wrong for so long? Not a bit. His new (and pretty bad) book declares that “the bias toward unconstrained deficit spending is our top domestic economic problem.”
那么格林斯潘，这位退休了的大师，既然错得这样离谱，又错了那么久，他有没有反思一下自己的观点？答案是根本没有。他的新书（这本书不怎么好）声称，“一味偏爱无节制的赤字支出，是我们国内的头号经济问题。”
Meanwhile, about that oft-prophesied, never-arriving debt crisis: In Senate testimony more than two and half years ago, Mr. Bowles warned that we were likely to face a fiscal crisis within around two years, and he urged his listeners to “just stop for a minute and think about what happens” if “our bankers in Asia” stop buying our debt. But has he, or anyone in his camp, actually tried to think through what would happen? No, not really. They just assume that it would cause soaring interest rates and economic collapse, when both theory and evidence suggest otherwise.
与此同时，再来看一下经常被人预言，却从未出现的债务危机：在两年半前的一次参议院作证时，鲍尔斯警告说，我们有可能在大约两年内遭遇一次财政危机，他敦促所有听众都“停下一分钟，思考一下，”如果“我们的亚洲金主”不再购买美国国债，“结果将会如何”。但是他和他的阵营中的其他人有没有真的想过，到底会发生什么情况？其实也没有。他们只是猜测，以为会造成利率攀升和经济崩溃，但是理论和证据都证明这不是事实。
Don’t believe me? Look at Japan, a country that, like America, has its own currency and borrows in that currency, and has much higher debt relative to G.D.P. than we do. Since taking office, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has, in effect, engineered exactly the kind of loss of confidence the debt worriers fear — that is, he has persuaded investors that deflation is over and inflation lies ahead, which reduces the attractiveness of Japanese bonds. And the effects on the Japanese economy have been entirely positive! Interest rates are still low, because people expect the Bank of Japan (the equivalent of our Federal Reserve) to keep them low; the yen has fallen, which is a good thing, because it make Japanese exports more competitive. And Japanese economic growth has actually accelerated.
你不相信我说的话？请看一下日本吧，这个国家跟美国一样，发行自己的货币，并以日元负债，而且他们债务与国内生产总值的比率要比我们高得多。自上任以来，首相安倍晋三说服了投资人，即通缩已经过去，通胀即将到来，这样一来日本国债就没有那么吸引人了——他实际上就是在推动这个市场失去信心，而这正是那些担忧负债的人害怕的。但是，这对于日本经济起到了完全正面的效果！利率仍然很低，因为人们预期日本银行（Bank of Japan，相当于美国的美联储）会继续将利率维持在较低水平；日元也在贬值，这是好事，因为这帮助日本的出口产品更有竞争力。同时，日本的经济增长事实上开始加速。
Why, then, should we fear a debt apocalypse here? Surely, you may think, someone in the debt-apocalypse community has offered a clear explanation. But nobody has.
那么，为什么我们反而要害怕债务灾难呢？当然，你也许以为，那些鼓吹债务灾难的人里，肯定有人提出了一个明确的解释。但是根本就没有这样一个人。
So the next time you see some serious-looking man in a suit declaring that we’re teetering on the precipice of fiscal doom, don’t be afraid. He and his friends have been wrong about everything so far, and they literally have no idea what they’re talking about.
所以，当你下次看到一个穿着西装，貌似一本正经的人宣称，我们正踉跄于财务灾难的悬崖边沿时，请千万别害怕。到现在为止，他跟他的朋友们说的一切都是错的，基本上他们也不知道自己究竟在说些什么。