BEIJING — With fresh bruises on my face and body, I sat in a smoke-filled, fluorescent-lit Beijing police station with my crying two-year-old in my arms. I was incredulous at the reaction from the duty officers.
北京——我坐在北京一个烟雾缭绕、荧光灯照明的派出所里，脸上和身上都是新添的青肿，怀里2岁大的孩子在哭闹。值班民警的反应让我难以置信。
“If a man jumps on a woman’s back and beats her head into the ground 10 times, that’s not a crime? If someone did this to me on the street outside, you wouldn’t file a report? There is no law against that behavior in China?”
“如果一个男人压在一个女人身上，把她的头在地上撞十下，这不算犯罪行为吗？如果有人在街上这么打我，你们不会接受报案吗？中国没有禁止这种行为的法律吗？”
The police officer stammered and said, “Well, of course that is a crime.”
那位民警结结巴巴地说，“这个么，当然是犯罪了。”
So I continued, “But because the man was my husband, it’s O.K.? Being married makes it legal to beat a woman?”
我继续说，“但是因为那个人是我丈夫，就不成问题了？难道结婚后打女人就是合法的？”
A female officer said to me, “You and your husband are both good people, just calm down a little, go home, everything will be fine.” Barely able to see clearly, I pointed to my swelling forehead and said, “Does this look fine to you?”
一名女警官对我说，“你和你丈夫都是好人，冷静一点，回家去吧，一切都会好的。”我的眼睛几乎看不清楚，我指着自己肿起来的额头说，“这在你看起来没问题吗？”
I was trying to file a report against my husband for assaulting me, but as far as the police were concerned, no crime had occurred. After an afternoon of pressing the police to acknowledge the crime and failing, I went home and posted a picture on Weibo, a microblogging platform, showing only my injured forehead, hoping that some friends among my 23 followers would respond to a cry for help.
我是因遭丈夫暴打而试图报案，但对这些警察来说，没有发生犯罪。在经过一个下午试图说服警察认识到这是犯罪、但却以失败告终之后，我回到家中往微博上传了一张只有我受伤的额头的照片，希望我的23个关注者中有些朋友会回应我的求助。
My photograph unleashed a torrent of pent-up frustration, agony and support from abused women across China. Within hours of my post, it was forwarded and commented on by more than 20,000 people. I was inspired by the reaction, and the next day went again to a police station and insisted on making an official report. The saga took more than a week and eventually the police officially acknowledged my husband’s abuse.
我的照片让那些受虐待的中国女性打开了她们的绝望、愤怒和表示支持的感情闸门。我的帖子在发布后的几个小时内就被2万多人转发和评论。我从中受到鼓舞，第二天再次来到派出所，坚持要求正式报案。为这事奔波了一周多，最后警方终于正式认识了我丈夫的暴行。
My now ex-husband is a prominent Chinese businessman, famous for a chain of English-language schools that we built together. I’m an American who has adopted China as my home. Our story was played out in the media, leading to widespread attention on us, and more importantly, on the cause of domestic abuse. In the two and a half years since the attack, I have partnered with the United Nations and a Beijing domestic violence organization to foster awareness of the problem and help victims.
现已成为我前夫的是中国一位有名的商人，他出名是因为我们一起创办的英语教学连锁学校。我是一个以中国为家的美国人。我家的事在媒体见诸报端后，引起人们对我们的广泛关注，更重要的是，引起人们对家庭暴力问题的关注。在我那次被打之后的两年半时间里，我与联合国以及北京的一个反家暴组织合作，促进人们对这个问题的意识，并给受害者提供帮助。
The All-China Women’s Federation reports that nearly 25 percent of married women in China have experienced domestic violence. But the abuse is far more prevalent than those numbers show: A large percentage of attacks go unreported. When women find the courage to go to the police, they most often meet the kind of resistance I did. Meanwhile, the legal system favors men — even abusive men — leaving desperate women few options.
中华全国妇女联合会的报告称，中国有近25%的已婚妇女遭受过家暴。但家暴的实际情况要比那些数据显示的更普遍：相当大部分的家暴没有报案。当遭遇家暴的女子有勇气到派出所报案时，她们绝大多数都会经历我遇到的那种阻力。与此同时，法律体系偏袒男人、甚至那些实施家暴的男人，这让绝望的女人几乎别无选择。
I’ve received countless messages from Chinese women describing a culture that denies there is a problem. One woman wrote to me in frustration: “I accompanied my injured mother to the police station, but the officers here didn’t even know the term ‘domestic violence.’ They only say that this kind of “private matter” or “family problem” is common and there isn’t anything they can do.”
我收到过无数中国女人发来的信，描述的是一种否认问题存在的文化。一个女人绝望地给我写道，“我陪着受伤的母亲一起去派出所，但是那里的警察甚至不知道‘家庭暴力’这个词。他们只是说这种‘私人问题’或‘家庭矛盾’很常见，他们无能为力。”
When abused women are ignored by the police, the last legal option is divorce in civil court. But divorce still carries a heavy stigma for Chinese women, and this is another strong deterrent for women to take action against abusive husbands. Those who pursue divorce have an uphill battle: Among all divorces filed on the grounds of domestic violence, about 3 percent are awarded on this basis alone. If the court fails to recognize the husband’s violence but still grants the divorce, the result can be financially devastating for the woman. Even more horrifying, divorce puts the woman at risk of losing custody of her children, as the parent with the higher income is seen as the better caretaker.
那些遭受家暴的女子被警方忽视后，最后一个法律选择是在民事法庭打离婚。但是，对中国妇女来说，离婚仍是很丢脸的事情，这又是一个让女性不对实施家暴的丈夫采取行动的巨大障碍。那些选择离婚的人面临很多困难：在所有因家暴而寻求离婚的案子中，只有约3%的人仅靠这个原因得以离婚。如果法庭没有判定丈夫实施家暴，但仍判允许离婚的话，结果对女方来说可能意味着经济上的毁灭。更可怕的是，离婚让女性处于失去孩子监护权的危险之中，因为收入更高的家长被认为是更好的监护人。
Those who have never lived through domestic violence often wonder about the victim, “Why didn’t she just leave?” The answers to this question are varied and complex, but for women in China there is a very practical answer to consider: There is no place to go. Support services are few and far between even in the largest cities, and there are no functioning shelters to speak of.
那些从未经历过家暴的人经常对受害者感到疑惑，“为什么她不离开呢？”这个问题比较复杂，也有各种答案，但是对中国妇女来说，一个很现实的答案是：没有地方可去。即使是在大城市中，能提供援助的机构少之又少，而且根本就没有真正运行的庇护场所。
Faced with the prospect of a lengthy divorce that could end up costing a woman her home and her child, is it any wonder that prisons are full of women who attacked their husbands with axes and fruit knives rather than rely on the law to protect themselves? Surveys of some women’s prisons have shown that more than 60 percent of inmates were sentenced for injuring or killing their husbands in retaliation for domestic violence. Many women convicted of killing their husbands serve life sentences, while most men who beat their wives to death serve only several years in prison.
面对漫漫无期的离婚官司，而且离婚还可能最终会让女人失去自己的家和孩子，监狱里关了很多用斧子或水果刀袭击丈夫而不是依靠法律来保护自己的女人，还有什么可奇怪的吗？对一些女子监狱的调查显示，超过60%的女囚是因报复家暴而打伤或打死丈夫被判刑的。许多杀死丈夫的女人被判处终身监禁，而大多数打死妻子的男人则只被判几年监禁。
In 2009, a 26-year-old Beijing woman, Dong Shanshan, reported her abusive partner to local police eight times, only to repeatedly have her bruises and complaints dismissed as “family problems.” She was later beaten to death by him. He received a sentence of six and a half years, for the crime of “maltreatment.”
2009年，26岁的北京女子董珊珊向当地派出所8次报案遭丈夫家暴，但她身上的伤痕和她的哭诉却屡被当做“家庭矛盾”而置之不理。后来，她被丈夫打死了。她的丈夫却只被判了六年半的有期徒刑，罪名是“虐待”。
China needs better domestic violence laws. Only a smattering of local courts are able to issue protection orders against abusive husbands. A national anti-domestic violence law has been drafted and is under consideration by the government. The legislative process is too opaque to know where things stand. Its opponents say that “family matters cannot be legislated,” yet last year the national government passed a highly publicized law requiring grown children to visit their elderly parents.
中国需要更健全的针对家庭暴力的法律。目前只有很少一部分地方法院能针对丈夫的暴力发出保护令。政府已经起草了一项反对家庭暴力的全国性立法，该立法现在商议中，但由于立法程序的不透明性，还不知道进展如何。反对这项立法的人说，“家庭问题不能靠立法解决”，然而，去年中央政府就高调通过了一个要求成年子女探望老年父母的法令。
It is heartening that some localities are pushing ahead with anti-domestic violence laws in the absence of a national law, but it is not enough. Only a national law can drastically raise awareness that domestic violence is in fact a crime. It would give women something to reference when turned away by the police or even to warn abusive husbands with.
在缺乏全国性立法的情况下，一些地方政府推出了反对家庭暴力的立法，这让人感到欣慰，但还不够。只有出台一项全国性立法才能大幅度提高人们的意识，认识到家暴是确确实实的犯罪行为。这也将会给妇女提供一个依据，在警方拒绝处理时，她们可以指出法律的存在，甚至可以用法律来警告实施家暴的丈夫。
In the aftermath of the publicity around my case, I was often asked by incredulous Chinese media why I, as an American, put up with my husband’s violence. I don’t think nationality makes a difference when it comes to the shame and fear women feel about speaking up. No woman is eager to say her family isn’t happy. No woman is proud of the fact that the man she loves beats her. I’m sure my nationality contributed to the amount of attention that my case received, but certainly no more than the fact that my Chinese ex-husband is a celebrity.
在我的情况公开之后，我经常收到一些表示怀疑的中国媒体的提问，为什么我一个美国人会忍受丈夫的暴力行为。我认为这跟国籍没关系，而是出于耻辱和恐惧感让女性不愿把这种问题公开化。没有哪个女人会迫不及待地宣称自己的家庭不幸福。没有哪个女人会因为自己被所爱的人暴打这个事实感到自豪。是的，我的国籍给我的情况带来了大量的关注，不过，我的中国前夫是名人这个事实肯定至少带来了同样多的关注。
Domestic violence isn’t a country-specific problem or a cultural phenomenon. It’s a crime. Stopping it doesn’t start with laws — though in some countries, like in China, new laws are necessary. It starts with voices willing to rise above geographic, political and linguistic barriers to shout out that domestic violence will not be tolerated, excused or ignored.
家庭暴力不是一个特定国家的问题，也不是一个文化现象。家庭暴力是一种犯罪。阻止这种犯罪并不是从法律开始的，当然在某些国家，比如中国，需要新的立法；阻止这种犯罪要从那些愿意跨越地理、政治和语言障碍的呼声开始：不要再容忍、原谅、或忽视家庭暴力。