Professional urban women eager to hunt, gut and eat their own wild game have found a champion in a former banker turned empowerment guru.
一位前银行高级职员不仅成了掌控人生的导师，还成为热衷狩猎、亲自处理和食用猎物的都市职业女性们的支持者。
Georgia Pellegrini calls them “gun hickeys.” She gets them on her right shoulder when she pulls the trigger on her firearm — usually a 20-gauge Beretta Silver Pigeon V, adorned with a tiny engraving of flying birds — and the butt end kicks back and leaves the mark of a hard kiss on her skin.
佐治亚·佩莱格里尼(Georgia Pellegrini) 通常使用20毫米口径的伯莱塔银鸽V猎枪，上面雕刻着一只小小的飞鸟。她说身上的痕迹是“枪之吻痕”——扣动扳机时，枪托产生后坐力，在她右肩的肌肤上留下了这个深深的吻。
Almost a decade ago, Pellegrini, 32, ditched her first career, as an investment banker, to become a chef, which led to her becoming a hunter, which led to a book deal, which led to her being on a dusty ranch in Montana on a blue-skied September morning teaching a group of women how to fire a shotgun.
大约十年前，32岁的佩莱格里尼抛弃了自己的第一份职业——投资银行高级职员——转行当上了大厨。这份职业最终令她成为猎人，猎人经历又促使她签约写书，而这本书又使得她来到蒙大拿尘土飞扬的农场，在9月上午的晴空下教一群女人怎么开枪。
“You have all your weight on your front foot,” she says. “Women have a tendency to arch their backs. You really want to avoid that. You’re going to look straight down the barrel.”
“重心要全部放在前脚上，”她说，“女人都容易含胸驼背。一定要避免。要笔直俯视枪筒。”
“When I pull the trigger, am I going to be scared doing it?” asks Marissa Reibstein, a fund-raiser for one of New York City’s temples of cultural liberalism, the 92nd Street Y, who lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
“扣扳机时会很吓人吗？”玛丽莎·莱布斯坦(Marissa Reibstein)问。她是纽约Y街92号一处文化自由主义寺院的筹款人，现居布鲁克林公园坡。
“It’s going to be intense,” Pellegrini replies, “but you’re going to like it.”
“会的，”佩莱格里尼答道，“但你会喜欢上它。”
Reibstein, who is wearing the bone of a raccoon’s penis on a string around her neck — not for fertility, as is the custom, but for “mojo” — has just passed through the last stages of a divorce. “When I shoot, just know that I’m working out a little divorce aggression,” she says. Now single, she has made a commitment to try new things. When Pellegrini, a friend from Wellesley College who lives in Austin, Tex., mentioned that she’d be running one of her periodic Girl Hunter Adventure Getaways — a “Thelma and Louise”-ish weekend of fly-fishing, horseback riding, falconry, A.T.V. outings, pheasant hunts and s’mores, with a squadron of a dozen or so women in Big Sky country — Reibstein wanted in.
莱布斯坦脖颈上戴着用浣熊阴茎做成的挂饰，传统习俗中，这是为了祈求生育，但刚刚结束离婚最后一项程序的她是为了获得“魔力”。“开枪时，我知道自己释放了一点离婚带来的攻击性，”她说。单身的她一心一意尝试新鲜事物。现居得克萨斯州奥斯汀市的佩莱格里尼是莱布斯坦在韦尔斯利大学时交上的朋友，她提起自己正定期主办一个女子狩猎冒险短期度假活动——十几个姑娘们可以在“高天村”钓鱼、骑马、玩猎鹰、开四轮摩托、打野鸡、吃甜烧烤，过一个“末路狂花”式的周末——莱布斯坦一听就加入了。
“Let’s do it,” Pellegrini says. “Try to load it. I’m taking your shotgun virginity right now.” When shells have been placed in the chamber and the clay pigeons are ready to be launched, she gives Reibstein two crucial words of instruction: “Lean in,” she says. She’s talking about shooting posture, but she might as well be making a nod to Sheryl Sandberg’s corporate/feminist manifesto. If Pellegrini shares Sandberg’s goal of empowerment, though, she gets there by a different route. In 2012’s “Girl Hunter,” a memoir (think “Shoot, Kill, Eat”) laced with recipes for dishes like elk jerky, squirrel dumplings and balsamic deer heart, she focuses largely on the transformative power of hunting, gutting and eating wild animals. “We are what we are — omnivores,” she writes. “We were meant to participate in nature rather than keep it at arm’s length.”
“来吧，”佩莱格里尼说，“试着上膛。我来给你的猎枪处女射。”子弹被装入弹仓，泥土制成的鸽子已经准备发射，她给了莱布斯坦剪短的重要指导：“上前一步(Lean in)。”她说的是射击姿势，但也可以理解成在向雪莉·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)同名自传中的协作主义与女性主义致敬。佩莱格里尼或许认同桑德伯格关于掌控局面的目标，不过她走的是一条完全不同的道路。2012年，她出版了回忆录《女猎手》(Girl Hunter)——有点像《开枪、杀戮、美食》(Shoot, Kill, Eat)，里面还收录了麋鹿干、松鼠肉饺子和香草鹿心之类菜谱。书中主要是讲狩猎、处理和食用野生动物给人带来改变的力量。“我们就是这样的杂食动物，”她写道，“我们应该参与到自然中去，而不是与它保持距离。”
Or, as Henry David Thoreau once put it: “We need the tonic of wildness.” And if a few jiggers of Tito’s vodka can be stirred in with that tonic, all the better. (An open bar is part of the weekend package.) “In my mind the biggest decision I have to make now is if I have to switch to whiskey,” jokes Marla Meridith, a lifestyle blogger from Telluride, Colo.It’s Thursday evening, and as dusk falls over the Montana Sporting Club, Pellegrini and her flock gather for drinks and conversation on a deck outside. The women have come from Colorado and Texas, California and Canada; they work in real estate and academia, high finance and fashion. Some have never held a weapon before; others can wax poetic about the glories of hunting javelina, or collared peccary, from a helicopter.
或者，正如亨利·大卫·梭罗(Henry David Thoreau)所写：“我们需要荒野的滋养。”再加几小杯蒂托伏特加，滋养的效果就更好了（佩莱格里尼的周末游项目中包括去一个露天酒吧喝几杯）。“我觉得此刻要做的最大决定就是要不要改喝威士忌，”玛拉·梅雷迪斯(Marla Meridith)说，她是来自科罗拉多州特柳赖德的生活方式博客写手。这是星期四的晚上，暮色降临，佩莱格里尼和她的一队人马来到蒙大拿体育俱乐部，在外面的平台喝酒聊天。女人们来自科罗拉多、得克萨斯、加利福尼亚和加拿大，从事房地产、学术、高端金融和时尚等行业。她们当中有人之前从未拿起过武器，有些人可以长篇大论地赞美坐直升飞机狩猎西猯或领西猯（二者都是分布在美洲的野猪——译注）的壮观场面。
Seeing the bedazzled rodeo shirts and ponchos, overhearing the wisecracks about old boyfriends and Botox, a casual observer could be excused for wondering if the whole weekend has been staged as a pilot episode of “Real Housewives of the Wild West.”
眼前是五颜六色的牛仔衬衫和斗篷，耳边是关于旧男友和肉毒杆菌的各种叽叽喳喳；一个随意的观察者如果觉得这个周末旅行可以充当新剧《绝望主妇在狂野西部》(Real Housewives of the Wild West)的试播集，只怕也情有可原吧。
“I’m scared to eat wild squirrel because in San Diego County a couple of squirrels tested positive for bubonic plague, which is really alarming,” says Holly Haeseler, a former Queens prosecutor and mother of three who is a partner in a San Diego software company.
“我不敢吃野生松鼠，因为在圣地亚哥郡，有松鼠被检出携带鼠疫病毒，太可怕了，”霍莉·哈伊塞勒(Holly Haeseler)说，她曾在皇后区担任公诉人，是三个孩子的母亲，如今是圣地亚哥一家软件公司的合伙人。
“Does that still happen?” Reibstein replies. “I thought that that was from the Middle Ages.”
“现在还有吗？”佩莱格里尼问，“我觉得这是中世纪的事了。”
No scampering rodents appear on the menu in the days ahead, but there will be wild-boar roulade, elk-and-dried-cherry sausage, seared quail with quinoa and huckleberries, and chokecherry sorbet. As the sunset talk goes on, it becomes clear that attending the Girl Hunter weekend is only partly about getting back to nature; much of the appeal has to do with getting away from the grind. “I can’t believe how many people told me they’re not going to be contacting their significant others,” Pellegrini notes.
于是蹦蹦跳跳的啮齿类动物就从其后几天的菜单上消失了，但还有野猪肉卷、麋鹿配樱桃酱、烧鹌鹑配藜麦和越橘，以及稠李果汁。暮色下的谈话还在继续，显然回归自然只是这个女猎人周末度假的部分目的，主要还是逃避琐碎郁闷的生活。“我简直没法相信，有那么多人告诉我，他们不想再和至亲好友联系了。”
For years, the effort to re-establish contact with our primitive selves — the beasts within, who howl at the moon, beat deerskin drums and survive by sheer animal cunning — was largely a male obsession. Then came Ree Drummond, the “Pioneer Woman,” who became a star by blogging about cooking and cattle ranching, and Cheryl Strayed, the best-selling author of “Wild,” a memoir of her solo trek along the Pacific Crest Trail. Pellegrini is mining similar territory — helping women seek clarity and peace of mind by casting aside the trappings of modern civilization (or some of them, anyway).
找到内心深处那个对月长啸、敲鹿皮鼓，靠动物本能求生的原始自我，与这个自我重建联系，多年来似乎主要是男人的执念。之后“拓荒女性”，雷·德拉姆蒙德(Ree Drummond)出现了，她靠写烹饪和经营养牛场的博客成了明星，后来是畅销书《走出荒野》(Wild)的作者谢丽尔·斯特雷德(Cheryl Strayed)，她的这本回忆录讲了她独自沿太平洋山脊径(Pacific Crest Trail)徒步旅行的经历。佩莱格里尼也在类似的领域开拓——她帮女人们抛开现代文明的枷锁（至少是一部分），寻找内心的清醒与宁静。
Pellegrini’s next book, “Modern Pioneering,” will offer a variety of tips — how to use a compass, how to turn Mason jars into lanterns, how to make lip gloss from beet juice. The book’s slogan: “Self-sufficiency is the ultimate girl power.”On the surface, Pellegrini seems like an unlikely emissary to what’s dirty and Dionysian. Before going to Wellesley, she studied at the Chapin School on Manhattan’s Upper East Side; after college came a stint at Lehman Brothers and then, when she grew disenchanted and became “determined to nourish my soul again,” as she puts it in “Girl Hunter,” she spent a while laboring in the kitchens at prestigious New York-area restaurants like Gramercy Tavern and Blue Hill at Stone Barns. It was at Stone Barns that Dan Barber, the influential farm-to-table chef, invited her to slaughter a turkey. Doing so changed her life. “I thrust my hands deep into her cavity,” she writes in the book. “It was still warm. I slid my hands high up the inside of the breastbone and felt the windpipe and heart and gizzard and intestines and pulled them out in one handful.”
佩莱格里尼的下一本书名叫《现代拓荒者》(Modern Pioneering)，书中将提供各种小窍门，诸如怎样使用指南针，怎样用玻璃罐头瓶做灯笼、怎样用甜菜汁做唇膏。书的宣传词写道：“独立自足是最终极的女权。”表面上，佩莱格里尼有点像是污秽与酒神狂欢的奇异使者。去韦尔斯利上学之前，她曾在曼哈顿上东区的蔡平中学就读，大学毕业后进了雷曼兄弟公司(Lehman Brothers)工作了一段时间。后来她感到幻灭，在《女猎手》中，她说自己“决定重新哺育自己的灵魂”，她花了一段时间，到“谢来喜酒馆”(Gramercy Tavern)和“石谷仓蓝山”(Blue Hill at Stone Barns)等纽约最有名的餐厅厨房里工作。正是在石谷仓，著名的“从农场到餐桌”大厨丹·巴伯(Dan Barber)请她宰杀一只火鸡。这件事改变了她的人生。“我的双手深深插入她（指火鸡——译注）体内，”佩莱格里尼在书中写道，“她体内还是热的。我的手滑进去，一直来到胸骨，摸到她的气管、心脏和肠胃，一手把它们全部掏出来。”
If there’s a woman in America who can disembowel an animal and avoid chipping a fingernail, it’s Pellegrini. She even manages to look manicured and unmussed riding an A.T.V. down a dusty hillside. Gun hickeys and blood stains aside, she’s a little like Annie Oakley as interpreted by Reese Witherspoon.
在美国，假如有一个女人能做到给动物开膛的同时还不折断指甲，那一定是佩莱格里尼。她甚至还去做美甲，开着四轮摩托翻过土丘时仪态也是一丝不乱。除去枪痕和血渍，她看上去有点像瑞茜·威瑟斯彭(Reese Witherspoon)饰演的安妮·奥克利（Annie Oakley，美国20世纪初女神枪手——译注）。
“Hunting can have a softer side to it,” Pellegrini says. “It can be stylish. It can be edgy. It can be alluring.” In Montana, afternoons of trudging through the high grass with dogs and firearms are followed by flutes of Champagne. Gift bags overflow with beef jerky, ball caps and baubles from SureShot jewelry (made with the spent casings of shotgun shells). And the cabins are equipped with fluffy beds and satellite TV. “There has to be that juxtaposition in order for it to work for them,” she says of her guests. “They want to feel feminine while they’re doing this.”
“打猎也有比较温柔的一面，”佩莱格里尼说。“它可以很时尚，也可以令人紧张，也可以非常诱人。”在蒙大拿，她们整个下午带着猎狗和猎枪在长草之间跋涉，接下来就用高脚杯喝香槟。赠品袋里装满牛肉干、棒球帽和“神枪手”(SureShot)珠宝品牌生产的小玩意（是以用过的弹壳做成的）。小木屋宿舍里配备松软的床铺和卫星电视。“必须有这样的反差，才会让她们满意，”她是指自己的顾客们，“她们希望打猎时也显得女性化。”
Still, when she talks about a visceral experience, she means it literally. On Saturday morning, in a field dense with bromegrass and alfalfa, half a dozen women hit the trail with two hunting guides, two English pointers and two shotguns. The dogs manage to flush several pheasants from the brush, but again and again the shooters miss, or balk because the angle isn’t right — nobody wants to “pull a Dick Cheney,” as one visitor puts it. Frustrations mount. Who wants to leave a Girl Hunter weekend without having bagged any game? Finally, Holly Haeseler, the tall and soft-spoken attendee from San Diego, blasts a bird as it leaps into the air. Then she poses for pictures with her first kill, cradling the pheasant’s body in the crook of her arm and stroking it.
而当她说起“发自肺腑”的体验时候，她说的可是真正的五脏六腑。星期六上午，在一片长满雀麦草和苜蓿的田野上，六个女人带着两个狩猎向导、两条英国指示犬和两条猎枪踏上了征程。两条狗从树丛中扑下几只野鸡，但猎枪却总是射偏，或者猎手因为角度不对而迟疑不决——正如一个旁观者所说，没有人愿意“误伤别人”。尴尬的气氛浮现出来。谁愿意不带点猎物就结束这个女猎手周末呢？最后个子高大、声音温柔的圣地亚哥参加者霍莉·哈伊塞勒射中了一只飞向空中的鸟儿，然后拿着自己初次射死的猎物摆拍了几张照片，把那只野鸡抱在臂弯里抚摸它。
“Mama’s bringing home dinner,” says Cara Wehkamp, a fellow hunter from Canada.
“妈妈要带晚饭回家了，”来自加拿大的随行猎手卡拉·维坎普(Cara Wehkamp)说。
At the ranch, while a few hunters sip lunchtime bloody marys, Pellegrini, in sunglasses and camo pants, crouches down on a blanketed patch of lawn outside the lodge, brandishes a Laguiole knife and places the pheasant on the ground. “Anyone who wants to know how to do this, join in,” she says as the group circles around. She starts by showing Haeseler how to pluck the feathers, moving along from the thick, sturdy ones to the smaller, downy ones as if peeling an artichoke.
在农场，猎手们午餐喝着血腥玛丽，与此同时，佩莱格里尼戴着墨镜，穿着迷彩裤，蹲在屋外草坪的一块毛毯上，放下那只野鸡，手中挥舞着一把拉吉约勒小刀。“谁想看就过来吧，”她说，人们围绕过来。她先向哈伊塞勒展示怎样拔毛，从浓密，坚固的部分开始，到细小的绒毛，仿佛在给洋蓟剥皮。
“They’re so skinny without their feathers,” Erin Dickes jokes. “Someone should pluck me.”
“拔了毛就变这么瘦了啊，”埃琳·迪克斯(Erin Dickes)开玩笑。“要是有人给我拔拔毛就好了。”
Pellegrini snips off the wings and the neck with scissors. Then it’s time to remove the organs. “You’re going to go all the way up to the top and you’re going to pull it all out,” she informs Haeseler. As the viscera slip out of the pheasant’s cavity, one member of the group, a real estate broker from Chicago named Molly Carroll, gasps and dashes off. She later confesses that the sight turned her into a vegetarian.
佩莱格里尼用剪刀剪掉它的翅膀和脖子。现在该去除内脏了。“要一直往上，一直到顶，把它们全都拉出来，”她告诉哈伊塞勒。当内脏从野鸡体内流出来的那一刻，人群中一位名叫莫莉·卡罗尔的芝加哥地产经纪倒吸了一口气，匆匆离开了。后来她说，这个场面令她成了一个素食主义者。
Most keep watching. “This is the heart right here,” Pellegrini says, holding it in her palm.
大多数人继续看下去。“这就是心脏，”佩莱格里尼把它握在手里说。
“Are you going to put the blood on Holly’s face now?” Reibstein asks.
“你要把血涂在霍莉脸上吗？”莱布斯坦问。
Pellegrini dips her fingertips into the avian blood and rubs it in ritualistic streaks, like “Braveheart”-style war paint, across Haeseler’s cheekbones. “Oh, that was nice and juicy,” Haeseler says. “Thank you.”
佩莱格里尼用指尖蘸了一点鸟血，划过哈伊塞勒的颧骨，涂成仪式般的纹样，有点像《勇敢的心》(Braveheart)里的战士。“啊，又漂亮又好玩，”哈伊塞勒说。“谢谢。”
The next day, in the Great Falls airport, Marissa Reibstein becomes momentarily gripped by emotion as she remembers killing a pheasant of her own that Sunday morning.
第二天，在大瀑布城机场，玛丽莎·莱布斯坦回想起自己周日上午第一次宰杀野鸡时有点激动。
“Guess what?” she says. “First shot! I cried. I wasn’t sad or anything. It was just that I did it. I’m getting emotional thinking about it.”
“你猜怎么样？”她说，“第一枪，我哭了。不是因为伤心或是怎么样。只是因为我做到了。一想起来我就激动。”
Within a few hours she’ll arrive in Brooklyn. “I’m really curious to see how people react when I talk about this back home,” she says. “I totally respect people that are horrified by it. That’s O.K. People don’t agree on everything.” She smiles at the memory, recalling the fresh Montana air tinged with the sulfurous fragrance of gunpowder. “I really wanted to get that birdie,” she says.
几小时候她就将回到布鲁克林。“我真是很好奇，想知道等我回去说起这段经历时人们会有什么反应，”她说。“我完全尊重害怕这些东西的人。人们反对任何事都不足为奇。”她微笑着回忆起沾染着火药味的新鲜空气，“我是真的很想得到那只小鸟儿。”