GENEVA — A United Nations panel has served notice to Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, that he may be personally held liable in court for crimes against humanity committed by state institutions and officials under his direct control.
日内瓦——联合国的一个调查组已经向朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)发出正式通知，称他本人可能会受到法庭追责，原因是他直接控制下的政府机构和官员犯下了反人类罪行。
A letter conveying this notice forms part of a report by the panel to the United Nations Human Rights Council, released on Monday after a yearlong investigation.
传达这份通知的信件构成了调查组向联合国人权理事会(United Nations Human Rights Council)提交的报告的部分内容。相关调查历时一年，报告则于周一发布。
The report is viewed by rights activists not only as the most detailed and authoritative body of data on the state of human rights in North Korea, but also as a milestone in the international debate on that country, one of the world’s most reclusive and isolated.
在维权活动人士看来，这份报告不仅是关于朝鲜人权状况最详尽、最权威的数据，也是关于朝鲜的国际争论的里程碑。朝鲜是世界上最隐秘、最孤立的国家之一。
In the letter, dated Jan. 20, the panel chairman, the retired Australian judge Michael Donald Kirby, summarized the investigation’s findings of crimes against humanity committed by officials that could be inferred to be acting under Mr. Kim’s personal control. Addressing Mr. Kim, 31, Judge Kirby wrote in the letter that his panel would recommend that the United Nations Security Council refer the situation in North Korea to the International Criminal Court, to make all those responsible for crimes accountable, “including possibly yourself.”
信件标注的日期为1月20日，调查委员会主席、澳大利亚退休法官迈克尔·唐纳德·柯比(Michael Donald Kirby)对关于官员所犯反人类罪行的调查结果进行了总结，可以推定，这些官员是根据金正恩本人的命令行事的。柯比法官在信中对31岁的金正恩说，他的调查组将建议联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)向国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)通报朝鲜的情况，向所有犯下罪行的人追责，“或许还包括你本人”。
“I hope that the international community will be moved by the detail, the amount, the long duration, the great suffering and the many tears that have existed in North Korea to act on the crimes against humanity,” Judge Kirby said on Monday, speaking to reporters in the Geneva offices of the United Nations. “Too many times in this building there are reports and no action,” Judge Kirby said. “Well, now is a time for action. We can’t say we didn’t know.”
“我希望，朝鲜情况的细节、数量、漫长的持续时间、巨大的苦难和无数的泪水会让国际社会为之动容，进而对反人类罪行采取行动，”周一，柯比法官在联合国日内瓦办公室对记者表示。“曾有许多次，这栋楼里只有记者，但却没有行动，”柯比说。“现在到了行动的时刻。我们不能说，自己不了解情况。”
North Korea denounced the report, and the entire process leading up to it, as a fabricated concoction of lies and deceits by North Korea’s enemies, including South Korea and the United States.
朝鲜方面对这份报告及报告出台的整个过程表示了谴责，说这份报告是韩国、美国等朝鲜宿敌编造的谎言。
A statement from the North Korean Mission in Geneva, quoted by Reuters, said that such rights violations “do not exist in our country,” and that the findings were "an instrument of a political plot aimed at sabotaging the socialist system.”
路透社引用朝鲜驻日内瓦使团的声明称，“我国不存在”此类侵权现象，报告的结论都是“意图颠覆社会主义制度的政治阴谋的工具”。
The North Korean authorities repeatedly denied the panel’s request for permission to visit the country to investigate abuses. The report relied heavily on testimony from North Korean refugees, escapees and asylum seekers. The panel’s 36-page summary report and a 372-page annex details what the report describes as a wide range of crimes against humanity. The report also criticizes the political and security apparatus of the North Korean state, asserting that it used surveillance, fear, public executions and enforced disappearances “to terrorize the population into submission.”
朝鲜官方曾多次拒绝调查组的请求，不允许他们到朝鲜调查侵权现象。这份报告的主要依据是朝鲜难民、逃亡者和庇护寻求者的证词。调查组的36页总结报告和372页附件详细讲述了种类繁多的反人类罪行。报告还对朝鲜的政治和安全机构进行了批判，称它利用监视、恐惧、公开处决和强制失踪的手段“来迫使民众顺从”。
“Systematic, widespread and gross human rights violations have been and are being committed by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, its institutions and officials,” the report asserted, referring to North Korea by its official name. The report stopped short of alleging genocide but specified among others the crimes of “extermination,” murder, enslavement, torture, rape and persecution on grounds of race, religion and gender.
该报告称，“朝鲜民主主义人民共和国(Democratic People's Republic of Korea)、该国机构及官员一直并正在实施系统、广泛、严重的侵害人权行为。”朝鲜民主主义人民共和国是朝鲜的正式名称。报告没有指控朝鲜犯有种族灭绝罪，但却列明了其他一些罪行，比如“灭绝”、谋杀、奴役、拷打、强奸，以及种族、宗教和性别迫害。
The report also reported in detail on the abduction of foreign citizens, notably from Japan and South Korea, observing “these international forced disappearances are unique in their intensity, scale and nature.”
该报告还详细描述了朝鲜绑架外国公民的行为，特别是日本和韩国公民，称“此类国际性强制失踪现象的强度、范围和性质独一无二”。
In many instances the abuses constitute crimes against humanity, the report asserted, adding “these are not mere excesses of the state; they are essential components,” and have been committed “pursuant to policies at the highest level of the state.” Human rights activists had pushed for the creation of the panel in a bid to broaden what had been the international community’s focus on North Korea’s nuclear program and bellicose security policies to the near exclusion of its human rights record.
报告称这种虐待行为的很多事例都构成了反人类罪，并表示“这些行为不只是朝鲜政府的无节制行为，更是这个国家的重要组成部分”，还是“依照朝鲜政府最高层决策”实施的行为。人权活动人士曾推动成立该调查组，以便扩大国际社会的关注范围，从朝鲜的核项目和挑衅性安全政策延伸到此前几乎未受关注的人权纪录。
North Korea’s practice of what the report called “crimes that shock the conscience of humanity” for decades “raises questions about the inadequacy of the international community.” “It really opens up a whole new chapter in the international reaction to North Korea,” Lee Jung-hoon, South Korea’s ambassador for human rights, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not just an investigation and a report and that’s the end of it. It’s giving a road map and blueprint to end this thing. There’s a very strong sense of urgency.”
数十年来，朝鲜一直在实施报告所谓的“震撼人类良知的罪行”，此事“引发了国际社会未能尽责的问题”。“这真的为针对朝鲜的国际行动开启了一个全新篇章，”人权理事会韩国代表李钟勋（Lee Jung-hoon，音译）接受电话访问时说。“这不仅仅是一项调查，一份报告。它带来了终结这种罪行的路线图和蓝图。这个任务迫在眉睫。”
There appears to be little immediate prospect of winning approval for International Criminal Court prosecution, however. Approval is necessary from the Security Council’s permanent members, which include North Korea’s long-term protector, China. Still, Mr. Lee said, “just the fact that they are getting the vocabulary of crimes against humanity, the International Criminal Court and Kim Jong-un on the same page is a huge step forward in the debate on North Korean human rights.” The panel also listed some other possible options for prosecution, including the formation of an ad hoc tribunal such as those convened to investigate crimes in the Balkans and Rwanda. It also called for the Human Rights Council to establish a structure to keep up the collection of evidence of human rights violations.
然而，就目前而言，国际刑事法院获准起诉朝鲜的可能性似乎不大。这需要获得安理会常任理事国的批准，其中包括长期保护朝鲜的中国。但李钟勋表示，“他们把‘反人类罪行’、‘国际刑事法院’和‘金正恩’这三个词放在了同一张纸上，这个事实本身就说明，有关朝鲜人权问题的争论取得了巨大进步。”调查组还列出了起诉之外的一些其他选择，包括成立一个特设法庭，就像巴尔干半岛和卢旺达成立的调查罪行的法庭一样。调查组还呼吁人权理事会建立一种机制，继续收集侵犯人权行为的证据。
“The U.N. has been more or less indifferent about these issues for six decades, the panel are trying to jump-start the reaction of the international community,” said Julie de Rivero, Geneva representative of Human Rights Watch. “Steps need to be put in place so that North Korea gets the message loud and clear that the issue won’t be ignored and it won’t just be the nuclear issue that triggers an international response.”
“60年来，联合国对这些问题多少有些漠不关心，调查组正在努力推动国际社会做出反应，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)驻日内瓦代表李维罗(Julie de Rivero)说。“需要采取措施，让朝鲜清清楚楚地认识到，问题不会被忽视，会引发国际反应的也不只是核问题。”