KABUL, Afghanistan — Driven by increased ground combat between insurgents and government forces, civilian casualties in Afghanistan surged 24 percent through the first half of the year to their highest levels since 2009, according to the United Nations, in a grim signal of the way the war here is changing from the same period a year ago.
阿富汗喀布尔——据联合国一份报告称，由于叛乱分子增加了与政府军的地面作战，阿富汗平民今年上半年的伤亡人数激增了24％，达到2009年以来的最高水平，这一严峻信号表明，此地的战争与去年同期相比出现了转折。
For the first time since the United Nations began publishing tallies of Afghans killed and wounded by the conflict, ground fighting has emerged as the deadliest facet of the war, instead of improvised explosive devices, which held that dubious distinction in the past. The death toll was especially high for women and children.
自从联合国开始统计冲突中的阿富汗伤亡人数以来，地面战斗第一次成为这场战争中最致命的因素，超过了简易爆炸装置造成的伤亡，此前简易爆炸装置是最主要的致命原因。死亡者中的妇女和儿童人数尤其地高。
The report illustrates how exceptionally bloody the war has become and how the composition of the forces has changed. For the most part, the Americans have stopped fighting. Now, when coalition commanders say that Afghan forces are in the lead in combat across the country, it is more than just a hopeful talking point. Spikes in violence have occurred across Afghanistan, partly because the insurgents no longer have to worry about coalition troops coming to the aid of the Afghan forces.
联合国的报告表明，这场战争已怎样变得格外血腥，以及参战各方的势力构成发生了什么样的变化。在大多数情况下，美国人已不再参战。现在，当联军指挥官说，阿富汗部队是全国各地主要的战斗力量时，那已不仅是一个充满希望的说法。阿富汗各地都发生过暴力的爆发，部分原因是叛乱分子不再担心联军部队会来援助阿富汗军队。
The numbers, to some degree, bear this out. While insurgents were responsible for double the number of civilians killed compared with the same period in 2009, that figure has halved for pro-government forces — almost entirely the result of fewer coalition airstrikes.
在某种程度上，上述数字也证实了这一点。虽然叛乱分子在2009年同期杀死的平民人数是今年上半年的两倍，但是同期内被叛乱分子打死的亲政府力量的人数则减少了一半，其中原因几乎完全是联军减少了空袭。
The report offers a useful snapshot of an increasingly opaque war. With fewer coalition forces around the country to monitor the fighting, the country’s defense and interior ministries distribute most data and information about the violence. However, both ministries are notoriously bad about sharing accurate information on police and military casualties. The picture that emerges from their sporadic reports is that the death toll of the country’s security forces seems to be increasing.
报告为这场越来越不透明的战争提供了一个有用的片刻写照。由于在全国各地检查战斗情况的联军力量减少，现在主要靠阿富汗的国防和内政部搜集和发布有关暴力的数据和信息。但是，这两个部门在提供有关警察和军队的准确伤亡信息上的名声不怎么好。从他们的零星报道中看到的情况是，该国安全部队的死亡人数似乎在增长。
The significant increase in fighting undermines assertions made early in the coalition troop drawdown that the insurgents would be less willing to fight their fellow Afghans. While in the past the Taliban might have often opted for roadside bombs to attack the well-armed coalition forces, they have recently been increasingly willing to test their luck with face-to-face fighting against the Afghan forces, particularly in areas with dense civilian populations.
战斗的显著增加削弱了联军部队开始逐渐撤出时的判断，即叛乱分子不大会愿意与他们的阿富汗同胞作战。虽然在过去，塔利班可能经常会选择用路边炸弹的方式袭击全副武装的联军部队，但他们最近已越来越愿意冒险与阿富汗部队面对面地作战，尤其是在平民人口密集的地区。
Unlike coalition forces, whose rules of engagement are designed to minimize civilian casualties, Afghan forces and insurgents are less discriminating. The Afghan Army will regularly lob mortars into villages where they believe insurgents are lurking. The militants, meanwhile, will fire rockets at civilian areas from a distance, hoping to hit government forces but often failing.
联军的交战规则是为减少平民伤亡设计的，而阿富汗军队和叛乱分子与联军不一样，他们不大区别平民与军人。阿富汗军队经常向他们认为有武装分子潜伏的村庄发射迫击炮。同时，武装分子则经常从远处向民用设施发射火箭，希望能打中政府军，但往往并非如此。
“The nature of conflict in Afghanistan is changing in 2014 with an escalation of ground engagements in civilian-populated areas,” Jan Kubis, the United Nations special representative for Afghanistan, said in a statement. “The impact on civilians, including the most vulnerable Afghans, is proving to be devastating.”
联合国阿富汗事务特别代表扬·库比什(Jan Kubis)在一份声明中说，“阿富汗冲突的性质正在2014年发生变化，已扩展为平民居住区的地面交战形式。对包括阿富汗最弱势群体在内的平民来说，这被证明是灾难性的。”
Deaths and injuries to children caused by the increase in ground fighting more than doubled from the same period a year ago, while two-thirds more women were caught in the fighting. More than half of the casualties were caused by grenades and mortars landing on homes and in farmland and playgrounds. The remaining injuries and deaths resulted from civilians caught in crossfire.
与一年前的同期相比，地面作战的增加所造成的死亡和受伤的儿童人数增长的一倍多，战斗中意外伤亡的妇女人数则增长了三分之二。一半以上的伤亡是因手榴弹和迫击炮落在住宅、农田和游玩场所附近造成的。造成其余伤亡的原因是平民在交火中被意外射中。
“In 2014, the fight is increasingly taking place in communities, public places and near the homes of ordinary Afghans, with the death and injury to women and children in a continued disturbing upward spiral,” Georgette Gagnon, the United Nations director for human rights here, said in a statement.
在阿富汗的联合国人权事务高级专员乔其特∙加格农(Georgette Gagnon)在一份声明中说，“战斗在2014年越来越多地发生在社区、公共场所，以及普通阿富汗人的住所附近，导致妇女和儿童的伤亡人数令人不安地持续螺旋上升。”
Nearly three-quarters of the casualties in the first half of the year were caused by the insurgency, the United Nations report said, while pro-government forces were responsible for less than 10 percent. The United Nations said that about 12 percent of the casualties could not be attributed to a specific party.
联合国报告称，今年上半年的伤亡中，有近四分之三是叛乱分子造成的，亲政府部队造成的伤亡不到10％。联合国说，有12%的伤亡的具体制造方无法确定。
In a reminder of the dangers faced by civilians in even the most heavily guarded parts of Afghanistan, a group of suicide bombers attacked the Police Headquarters and the office of the governor of Kandahar Province in southern Afghanistan on Wednesday, Afghan officials said.
阿富汗官员说，一群携带炸弹的自杀者，周三袭击了阿富汗南部坎大哈省的警察局大楼和省长办公大楼，这提醒人们，即使在阿富汗最戒备森严的地方，平民也会面临危险。