GENEVA — United Nations investigators say North Korea has committed wide-ranging crimes against humanity to sustain its political system, and recommend that it be referred to the International Criminal Court.
联合国调查人员称朝鲜为维持其政治制度而犯下了众多反人类罪行，并建议将朝鲜送交国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)。
In a report that draws on the testimony of survivors and those who escaped the country, the investigators detail how North Koreans have been summarily executed, subjected to rape, forced abortions and enslavement, and have suffered persecution on political, religious, racial and gender grounds, The Associated Press said on Saturday, citing an unofficial outline of the report, to be released Monday.
周六，美联社(Associated Press)报道称，在一篇引用幸存者及脱北者证词的报告中，调查人员详述了朝鲜人遭受就地处决、强奸、强制堕胎和奴役的情形，以及他们因政治、宗教、种族及性别原因遭受迫害的情形。美联社援引了这份报告的非官方大纲，报告将于周一发布。
Crimes against humanity were committed through policies and decisions meant to sustain the current political system, the report concludes, and in full awareness that they would exacerbate starvation and related deaths, the news agency reported.The panel is scheduled to present its report and a 372-page detailed annex to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva on March 17. The report is widely expected to be the most authoritative account yet of the abuses and repression maintained by three generations of the ruling Kim family over 60 years.
该新闻机构的文章写道，报告称，朝鲜为维持现存政治制度而出台的政策和决定构成了反人类罪，朝鲜完全明白这些举措会加剧饥馑、造成死亡。3月17日，调查小组将在日内瓦向联合国人权理事会(United Nations Human Rights Council)提交这份报告及372页的详细附件。外界普遍预计，这份报告将成为迄今为止有关金氏统治家族三代领导人60年来虐待及压制民众行为的最权威描述。
The Human Rights Council set up the panel nearly a year ago to try to broaden international attention beyond North Korea’s nuclear weapons program and focus on a system of political repression that the United Nations human rights chief, Navi Pillay, said had “allowed the government to mistreat its citizens to a degree that should be unthinkable in the 21st century.”
人权理事会在将近一年前成立了该调查小组，试图让国际社会关注核武计划以外的朝鲜问题，调查的焦点是一个实行政治压迫的制度。联合国人权事务主管纳瓦·皮莱(Navi Pillay)曾表示，这种制度“允许政府虐待其公民，在21世纪，这种程度的虐待本该是不可思议的事情”。
There appears to be little prospect of North Korea’s coming under investigation by the International Criminal Court, an initiative that requires the support of the United Nations Security Council, where China, North Korea’s traditional ally, would almost certainly block action.
朝鲜遭到国际刑事法院调查的可能性似乎很小，因为这个倡议需要获得联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)的支持，而安理会常任理事国中国是朝鲜的传统盟友，几乎肯定会阻止相关行动。
Members of the panel are under no illusion about the political obstacles to bringing the North’s leaders to account for the crimes they report, but have expressed the hope that greater international scrutiny will have a deterrent effect on state abuse, afford some protection to North Korea’s s population and help serve as a catalyst for change.
小组成员完全清楚，要让朝鲜领导人为调查组报告的罪行负责，政治上存在种种阻碍。但他们仍然表示，希望更大力度的国际审查能对该国政府的虐待行为形成威慑，为朝鲜民众提供一些保护，并起到推动变革的作用。
David Hawk, a leading researcher on North Korean prison camps, told The A.P. that although legal scholars and human rights groups had previously concluded that North Korea had committed crimes against humanity, this was the first time that United Nations experts had drawn the same conclusion.
研究朝鲜劳改营的权威人士戴维·霍克(David Hawk)告诉美联社，虽然法律学者和人权组织此前也曾得出朝鲜犯有反人类罪的结论，但这是联合国专家首次得出同样的结论。
The panel draws on the testimony of survivors, expert witnesses and satellite imagery to describe the conditions in a network of prison camps still believed to hold up to 120,000 prisoners, where inmates, some of them sentenced for “crimes by association,” were subjected to forced labor and deliberate starvation, and witnessed frequent public executions.
调查组利用幸存者、专家目击证人和卫星图像提供的证据描述了劳改营网络里的情形，据信这个网络仍然关押着多达12万名囚犯。囚犯们被迫从事强制劳动，忍受蓄意制造的饥饿，并且频繁见证公开处决，其中一些囚犯被判刑是因为“牵连罪”。
Barred from access to North Korea, the panel held public hearings in Tokyo, London, San Francisco and Seoul, South Korea, to help raise awareness of conditions in the country. These produced harrowing accounts of starving children clubbed to death by prison guards for stealing a few grains of rice and a mother who was forced to drown her baby in a bucket.
由于朝鲜禁止调查组进入朝鲜，调查组便在东京、伦敦、旧金山和韩国首尔举行了公开听证会，以此扩大人们对朝鲜情况的关注。听证会上出现了一些十分悲惨的故事，比如饥饿的儿童因为偷了几粒米而被狱卒用棍棒打死，一位母亲被迫把自己的孩子淹死在了水桶里。
“We heard from ordinary people who faced torture and imprisonment for doing nothing more than watching foreign soap operas or holding a religious belief,” the leader of the panel, Michael D. Kirby, told the Human Rights Council in September.
去年9月，调查组负责人迈克尔·D·柯比(Michael D. Kirby)曾告诉人权理事会，“一些普通民众告诉我们，仅仅因为观看外国肥皂剧或持有宗教信仰，他们就遭受了折磨和监禁。”