The top United Nations relief official flew to the Philippines on Monday to help lead the global response to the powerful typhoon that killed thousands and upended the lives of nearly 10 million people in the country’s midsection. International aid groups mobilized to rush food, water and sanitation supplies to the victims, a struggle in the face of impassable roads, obliterated seaports and severely damaged airstrips.
周一，联合国负责救援事务的最高官员飞往菲律宾，协助领导全球救援行动，以应对导致该国中部上万人死亡、近1000万人受灾的强台风。多个国际救援团体动员起来，希望把食品、水及卫生设施尽快提供给灾民。然而道路封锁、港口被毁、飞机跑道遭受重创，面对这种情况，快速救援十分困难。
The move by the relief official, Valerie Amos, to take more personal charge of the effort came three days after the typhoon, Haiyan, left a path of destruction across 41 provinces in the Philippines and as the scope of its devastation was only starting to become clear. The storm was believed by some climatologists to be the most powerful ever to make landfall.
前来亲自监督行动的是救援事务主管瓦莱丽·阿莫斯(Valerie Amos)。三天前，台风“海燕”(Haiyan)横扫菲律宾的41个省份，其破坏规模才刚开始显现。一些气候学家认为，这是史上最强劲的登陆风暴。
In the flattened city of Tacloban, where as many as 10,000 people may have died and corpses were on the streets, rainfall that began late Monday was adding new complications to the relief effort. Earlier it took supply convoys three hours just to traverse the seven-mile route into town from the airport, said John Ging, the operations manager of United Nations emergency relief coordination.
塔克洛班市被夷为平地，不少人横尸街头，死亡人数可能上万。周一晚间，又开始下雨，给救援工作增添了新的变数。联合国人道主义事务协调厅救援行动负责人约翰·金(John Ging)称，当天早些时候，供给车队花了三个小时才走完从机场到市区的7英里（约合11公里）路程。
Asked if he thought the death toll could rise, he said: “We hope it doesn’t get any higher, but we have to be prepared for the worst.”
当被问到是否认为死亡人数会上升的时候，他说：“我们希望不会再升高，不过我们必须做最坏的打算。”
At a news briefing at United Nations headquarters, Mr. Ging said Ms. Amos, the United Nations under secretary general for humanitarian affairs and the emergency relief coordinator, was expected to arrive in the Philippines on Tuesday. She released $25 million from a special fund to help pay for immediate assistance and was launching what aides called a flash fund-raising drive. At least $35 million in additional aid was pledged by other governments on Monday.
在联合国总部的吹风会上，金表示，阿莫斯预计将于周二抵达菲律宾。阿莫斯是主管人道主义事务的副秘书长兼紧急救济协调员。她已从专项基金中拨出2500万美元（约合1.52亿元人民币），用于支付即时援助。助理们称，她还将启动一项闪电筹款行动。周一的时候，其他政府机构还承诺了至少3500万美元的追加援助款。
“All the focus is on a rapid mobilization of a very large response,” Mr. Ging said. “This is quite unprecedented in scale.”
“所有的重心都放在了快速动员大量应急援助上，”金说。“规模相当之空前。”
The effort led by the United Nations came as the United States significantly increased its assistance to the Philippines. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who had ordered 90 Marines and a half-dozen aircraft to assist over the weekend, on Monday ordered the aircraft carrier George Washington and other Navy ships in the Pacific “to make the best speed for the Republic of the Philippines.”
联合国牵头行动的同时，美国也大幅增加了对菲律宾的援助。周末期间，国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)指示90名海军陆战队队员和数架飞机前往协助。周一的时候，他又下令乔治·华盛顿号(George Washington)航母等太平洋上的海军舰只“全速前往菲律宾共和国”。
The George Washington, which carries 5,000 sailors and more than 80 aircraft, was ordered to depart from a port visit in Hong Kong, and the crew was recalled from shore leave immediately. Mr. Hagel also reiterated the American intent to help the Philippine government determine “what, if any, additional assets may be required.”
乔治·华盛顿号上载有5000名人员和80多架飞机，接到指示时正在香港停靠，上岸休息的船员被紧急召回。哈格尔还重申，“如有必要”，美国愿意协助菲律宾政府查明“可能需要调用的额外资源”。
The Philippine government was grateful for the assistance, but it also appeared anxious to retain basic strategic controls, which may have had the unintended consequence of hampering some relief efforts. The Tacloban airport control tower was destroyed, for example, but the government did not ask the United States military to help manage air traffic control with a temporary replacement setup, as it has sometimes done elsewhere. Without a tower, all pilots flying into Tacloban were forced to land by sight, slowing deliveries.
对美国的协助表示感谢的同时，菲律宾政府似乎又急于保持基本的战略控制，而这可能造成了阻碍部分救援行动的意外后果。例如，塔克洛班机场的塔台被毁，但菲律宾政府没有请求美军协助建立临时替代设施来管控空中交通，即使美军拥有在别处这样做的经验。没有塔台的话，所有飞临塔克洛班的飞行员只能被迫目视着陆，从而减缓了运输速度。
The outpouring of support and sympathy was seen around the world, but was particularly strong in the United States, stoked by social media publicity and the large size of the Filipino population, the second-largest Asian-American group in the country. Some aid groups reported generous pledges from the New York area, reflecting what they called the sympathy effects caused by Hurricane Sandy a year ago.
世界各地纷纷提供援助，并表示同情，但这种感觉在美国尤为强烈，因为社交媒体进行了广泛宣传，而且美国有很多菲律宾人——美国的第二大亚裔群体。一些援助组织称，纽约地区的捐助承诺十分慷慨，突显了由一年前的飓风“桑迪”(Hurricane Sandy)所引发的同情效应。
The United Nations relief agency said on its website that as of Monday, 9.8 million people had been affected across the Philippines and more than 659,000 were displaced from their homes. But Mr. Ging and other top relief officials at the United Nations and elsewhere said they could not yet calibrate the full scope of the death and devastation because they simply did not have enough facts.
联合国救援机构在其网站上称，截至周一，菲律宾各地共有980万人受灾，逾65.9万人流离失所。不过，约翰·金等联合国组织的救援事务高级官员表示，他们还无法准确估计伤亡及破坏的总体规模，因为他们没有足够的事实依据。
“At this early stage, the big issue for us is moving people and aid supplies to the affected area,” Natasha Reyes, the Philippines emergency coordinator for Doctors without Borders, the Paris-based medical aid organization, said in an emailed update. Dr. Reyes also said: “Right now we’re operating in a relative black hole of information. We know from the very little we can see that the situation is terrible. But it’s what we don’t see that’s the most worrying.”
医疗援助组织无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)的菲律宾紧急协调员狄纯娜(Natasha Reyes)通过邮件提供了最新消息。她表示，“在早期阶段，我们面临的大问题是将人员及物资送往受灾地区。”狄纯娜医生还表示，“我们现在是运转在一个相对的信息黑洞中。从我们获得的极其少量的信息中可以看出，情况非常糟糕。但我们不了解的才是最让人担心的。”该组织总部位于巴黎。
Bob Kitchen, the global emergency director of the International Rescue Committee, one of the oldest aid groups, said it was already assuming that transportation was going to be the biggest challenge in delivering help. “If we can’t get to the communities affected because the road systems are down, we’re going to have to up our game,” he said.
国际救援委员会(International Rescue Committee)是历史最悠久的援助组织之一，其全球应急事务主管鲍勃·基钦(Bob Kitchen)表示，该组织已经假定交通运输是援助输送面临的最大挑战。他说，“如果我们因为道路系统受损而无法到达灾区，我们就需要升级行动。”
Robert S. Zeigler, the director general of the International Rice Research Institute in Los Baños, Philippines, said he was concerned that the damage reports seemed to be mainly from Tacloban, the provincial capital of Leyte, where aid had been concentrated so far, and not from the many fishing communities on the coast. “The coastal areas can be quite vulnerable — in many cases, you have fishing communities right up to the shoreline, and they can be wiped out” by a powerful storm surge, he said.
菲律宾洛斯巴尼奥斯国际水稻研究所(Internaional Rice Research Institue)所长罗伯特·S·齐格勒(Robert S. Zeigler)表示，受灾报告似乎主要来自莱特省的省会塔克洛班，而不是很多沿海渔村，这让他很担心。他表示，“在很多情况下，沿海地区非常容易受影响，好些渔村一直延伸到海岸线，它们可能会被（强力风暴潮）彻底摧毁。”
The storm appeared to have obliterated most structures in northern Panay Island, about 300 miles west of Tacloban. While the number of deaths was unclear, fishing boats in Estancia, a busy Panay port, were returning Monday with hauls of corpses that had been swept out to sea.
暴风雨似乎已经摧毁了北部的班乃岛的大部分建筑，班乃岛在塔克洛班以西大约300英里处。虽然死亡人数尚不清楚，但周一，在班乃岛繁忙的埃斯坦西亚港口，渔船打捞回一些被冲进大海的尸体。
“We retrieved 11 more bodies from the ocean today, and they are still washing ashore,” said Eugene Tentativo, Estancia’s disaster risk reduction officer. “The morgues are full.”
“我们今天又从海里打捞出11具尸体，尸体还在被不断地冲上岸，”埃斯坦西亚负责减少灾害风险工作的官员尤金·滕塔蒂博(Eugene Tentativo)说。“停尸房已经装不下了。”