SEOUL, South Korea — North Korean officials have a “tremendous sense of optimism” about their country’s recent turn toward diplomacy and have promised to work more openly with humanitarian aid groups, according to the head of the World Food Program, who visited the country last week.
韩国首尔——朝鲜官员对他们的国家最近转向外交感到“极为乐观”，他们承诺将更公开地与人道救援组织合作，据上周访问朝鲜的联合国世界粮食计划署(World Food Program)负责人说。
David Beasley, the executive director of the United Nations agency, also said that while malnutrition continued to be a problem in the impoverished North, he saw no evidence during his four-day trip of the kind of extreme food shortages that killed more than two million people there in the 1990s.
该机构的执行干事戴维·比斯利(David Beasley)还说，虽然营养不良仍是贫困的朝鲜所面临的一个问题，但在他的四天旅行中，他没有看见任何食品极端缺乏的迹象，20世纪90年代出现过那样的短缺，曾导致200多万人朝鲜人死亡。
“What I did not see was starvation,” Mr. Beasley said Tuesday at a news conference in Seoul. “I saw none of that. Is there undernutrition? Of course there is.”
“我没有看到的是饥荒，”比斯利周二在首尔的新闻发布会上说。“我一点都没看到。有营养不良的情况吗？当然有。”
Mr. Beasley said he spent two days visiting farms, villages, schools and nurseries in the poverty-stricken countryside and another two days in Pyongyang, the capital, talking with officials. The trip came a month before the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, is scheduled to meet with President Trump in Singapore, on June 12.
比斯利说，他花了两天时间在贫困的农村地区参观农场、村庄、学校和托儿所，也花了两天时间在首都平壤与官员进行交谈。朝鲜领导人金正恩已定于6月12日在新加坡与美国总统特朗普会晤。
Mr. Beasley, a former Republican governor of South Carolina, said the diplomacy underway between the North and the United States had had a visible effect on the attitude of North Korean officials. He said his group was given more access during its tour of the countryside than in past trips.
比斯利曾任美国南卡罗莱纳州的共和党州长，他说，朝鲜与美国之间正在进行的外交努力对朝鲜官员的态度已有明显的影响。他说，他的小组这次在朝鲜农村访问的地方比过去能去的地方要多。
“There is a tremendous sense of optimism by the leadership and by the people I met with and hopes that they will be turning a new chapter in history, a new page,” he said.
“在领导层以及我见到的人民中有一种极大的乐观感，他们对即将翻开历史新篇章、翻开新的一页充满希望。”
The World Food Program has been operating in North Korea for more than 20 years, providing nutritional aid for children, pregnant women and nursing mothers. But in recent years, the agency has had trouble raising funds for its work there, as the United Nations Security Council has imposed increasingly tough sanctions on the North over its nuclear and missile tests.
联合国世界粮食计划署已在朝鲜工作了20多年，主要是为儿童、孕妇和哺乳期妇女提供营养援助。但近年来，由于联合国安理会因朝鲜进行核试验和导弹试验，对朝鲜采取了越来越严厉的制裁措施，该机构在为其朝鲜项目募捐上遇到困难。
The North has also been accused of not giving independent monitors enough access to establish that aid is reaching people in need.
朝鲜还被指责不让独立观察员通过足够多的途径来确定，救援物资是否的确到了需要帮助者的手里。
Mr. Beasley said his team spent a considerable amount of time explaining to North Korean officials that they needed to provide the World Food Program with more access and data, to ensure transparency in aid distribution and help the agency better determine people’s needs. He said he saw “a genuine desire to be more open” and engage in “more frank and candid discussions.”
比斯利说，他的团队曾用相当多的时间向朝鲜官员解释，他们需要让联合国世界粮食计划署前往更多的地方、得到更多的数据，以确保救援物资发放的透明度，同时帮助该机构更好地确定人民的需求。他说，他看到了“希望更加开放”、参与“更见加坦诚和坦率讨论的真诚愿望”。
The North Koreans “gave us all indications that they plan to meet our standards and work with us,” Mr. Beasley said.
朝鲜“向我们展示的所有迹象表明，他们打算满足我们的标准，与我们合作，”比斯利说。
North Korea has experienced chronic food shortages since the 1990s, although its grain production has improved in recent years. Last year, the World Food Program estimated that 10 million of the North’s 25 million people were undernourished, routinely short of essential proteins, fats, vitamins and minerals.
朝鲜自20世纪90年代以来一直长期存在着粮食短缺问题，尽管近年来该国粮食产量有所增长。联合国世界粮食计划署去年的估计是，朝鲜2500万人口中有1000万人营养不良，这些人常规性地缺少必要的蛋白质、脂肪、维生素和矿物质。
On average, North Korean teenagers are several inches shorter than their South Korean counterparts because of malnutrition, according to humanitarian groups. “No children should suffer the consequences of political decisions,” Mr. Beasley said.
据人道主义组织称，由于营养不良，朝鲜青少年的平均身高比韩国青少年的矮好几公分。“不应该让孩子们来承受政治决策的后果，”比斯利说。
During his visit, Mr. Beasley said, he saw men and women working in the fields with minimal farm machinery, toiling with their hands, hoes and shovels and using oxen to pull plows. He said “every inch” of arable land, up to the edges of roads and down embankments, seemed to be cultivated, as the mountainous, heavily sanctioned country struggled to produce food.
比斯利说，他在访问期间看到，在田间劳作的男男和女女只有很少的农机设备，大多用手、锄头和铲子劳动，也有用牛拉犁的。他说，由于这个受到严厉制裁的多山国家正在努力生产粮食，从路边上到河堤下的“每一寸”可耕地似乎都种着庄稼。
As Mr. Kim, the North Korean leader, engages Washington in dialogue, he has promised to focus on developing his country’s economy. The American secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea have said that their governments are willing to help North Korea improve its agriculture and other industries if it gives up its nuclear weapons.
朝鲜领导人金正恩在开始与华盛顿对话的同时，已承诺把国家的重点放在发展本国经济上。美国国务卿迈克·庞皮欧和韩国总统文在寅也已表示，如果朝鲜放弃核武器，美国和韩国政府都将愿意帮助朝鲜改进该国的农业和其他产业。