President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines should be formally investigated by judicial authorities in his country for murder after he claimed to have personally killed people suspected of committing crimes, the top human rights official at the United Nations said on Tuesday.
联合国最高人权官员周二表示，菲律宾司法当局应正式对总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)进行谋杀调查。此前，杜特地声称自己曾亲手杀死涉嫌犯罪者。
The official, Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, was responding to comments that Mr. Duterte made at a news conference on Friday in which he said that he had shot and killed “about three” men during his years as mayor of the southern city of Davao.
这位官员是联合国人权事务高级专员扎伊德·拉阿德·侯赛因(Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein)，他指的是杜特地周五新闻发布会上的言论，后者说自己在担任菲律宾南部达沃市的市长期间，曾经枪杀过“大约三个人” 。
Those killings would “clearly constitute murder,” Mr. al-Hussein said in a statement on Tuesday. “It should be unthinkable for any functioning judicial system not to launch investigative and judicial proceedings when someone has openly admitted being a killer.”
这些杀人行为“明显构成谋杀”，周二，侯赛因在一份声明中说。 “如果有人公开承认自己是杀人者，却没有遭到调查和起诉，这在任何正常运行的司法制度当中都是不可想象的。”
Mr. Duterte, 71, has said that as mayor he roamed Davao on a motorcycle and killed people to encourage the city police to take strong action against criminals. He has previously said that the three men he shot were suspected of rape and kidnapping.
今年71岁的杜特地说，担任市长期间，他坐着摩托车漫游达沃，以杀人的方式鼓舞该市警察对犯罪分子采取强有力的行动。此前他说自己杀死的三个男子涉嫌强奸和绑架。
But Mr. Duterte’s actions violated the Philippine Constitution and international law, Mr. al-Hussein said, and by encouraging others to follow his example, Mr. Duterte might also have committed incitement to violence.
但是杜特地的行为违反了菲律宾宪法和国际法，侯赛因说，而且他鼓励其他人效仿自己的行为，也可能构成煽动暴力的罪行。
The Philippine president’s comments stoked further controversy over the crackdown he unleashed on drug addicts and dealers after taking office at the end of June. Since that antidrug campaign began, about 2,000 people have been killed by the police, and there have been more than 3,500 unsolved killings.
菲律宾总统于6月底上台后对吸毒者和毒贩展开镇压，如今他的言论引发了对这场镇压的进一步争议。自从这场反毒品运动开始以来，约有2000人被警察杀死，并有3500多起未侦破的杀人事件。
Children as young as 5 have become victims of this “appalling epidemic of extrajudicial killings,” Mr. al-Hussein said, expressing surprise that there had been no sign of prosecutions of those responsible.
侯赛因说，“法外处决的泛滥程度令人震惊”，有若干儿童也成为受害者，年龄最小的只有五岁。但是没有任何迹象表明相关责任人会遭到起诉，侯赛因对此表示惊讶。
Mr. Duterte drew condemnation from rights activists and religious leaders this month for pledging to restore the death penalty in the Philippines and to execute up to six criminals every day.
杜特地本月承诺在菲律宾恢复死刑，每日可处死最多达六名罪犯，权益活动人士和宗教领袖对此表示谴责。
On Monday night, Mr. Duterte lashed out at an American aid agency, the Millennium Challenge Corporation, which said it had deferred a decision on renewing assistance to the Philippines because of significant concerns about the rule of law and human rights in the country.
周一晚上，杜特地还抨击了美国援助机构千年挑战公司(Millennium Challenge Corporation)。该公司此前表示，出于对菲律宾法治和人权的重大关切，已推迟了向菲律宾继续提供援助的决定。
“Shut up, shut up,” Mr. Duterte said at an awards ceremony for government workers that was attended by the new American envoy, Sung Kim. Mr. Duterte said the decision to review financial aid was “an insult.”
“闭嘴，闭嘴，”杜特地在政府工作人员颁奖典礼上说，美国特使金成(Sung Kim)出席了该典礼。杜特地说，对财政援助进行复审的决定是“一种侮辱”。
“Go home, I do not need your aid,” he said, adding that China would provide billions of dollars more in financial assistance.
“回家去吧，我不需要你们的援助，”他说，并接着说，中国将提供比这多出几十亿美元的财政援助 。