GENEVA — A United Nations human rights investigator said in a report released Monday that the organization should officially notify North Korea’s top leader, Kim Jong-un, that he and subordinates could face trial for heinous crimes. The investigator also recommended the creation of an expert panel to identify ways of prosecuting them.
日内瓦——本周一，联合国一名人权调查员发布报告称，该组织应该正式通知朝鲜最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)，他及下属可能面临着一些严重罪行的审判。这名调查员还建议组建一个专家小组来确定起诉他们的方法。
The investigator, Marzuki Darusman, the special rapporteur monitoring developments in North Korea, also said in the report that “no tangible improvement” had been seen in the state of human rights in the country since a commission of inquiry two years ago implicated its leaders in wide-ranging crimes against humanity, including “extermination,” murder, torture, enslavement and persecution on grounds of race, religion and gender.
这名调查员是负责监察朝鲜事态发展的特别报告员马祖基·达鲁斯曼(Marzuki Darusman)，他在报告中还表示，自从两年前一个调查委员会认为朝鲜领导人犯下了广泛的反人类罪以来，该国的人权状况“没有切实改善”。这些反人类罪行包括“根绝”、谋杀、酷刑、奴役以及种族、宗教和性别迫害。
Mr. Darusman’s 13-page report, which he will present next month to the Human Rights Council in Geneva, said, “The urgent challenge now is to determine which methods can be most effectively utilized to hold perpetrators accountable.”
达鲁斯曼的报告长13页，下月将在日内瓦提交给人权理事会。报告中说，“眼下最紧迫的挑战是，确定用哪些方法可以最有效地追究作恶者的责任。”
Mr. Darusman was a member of the commission of inquiry, which urged the Security Council to refer North Korea to the International Criminal Court. Mr. Darusman reiterated that recommendation but said the General Assembly could create a tribunal to prosecute crimes for which international law does not permit amnesty.
调查委员会敦促安理会(Security Council)将朝鲜问题提交到国际刑事法院，达鲁斯曼作为委员会成员，重申了这个建议，但他表示，联合国大会也可以组建一个法庭，起诉国际法不允许赦免的罪行。
To ease that process, Mr. Darusman recommended the council create a committee of experts to determine the appropriate approach under international law and recommend “creative and practical mechanisms of accountability to ensure truth and justice for victims of crimes against humanity.”
为方便起见，达鲁斯曼建议理事会组建一个专家委员会，以确定国际法中的哪些方法比较适用，并推荐“兼具创新性和可行性的问责机制，确保为反人类罪受害者还原真相，伸张正义”。
Under international law, Mr. Darusman said, prosecution of Mr. Kim and top leaders should be considered for ordering or instigating crimes against humanity even if lower-ranking personnel committed them.
达鲁斯曼说，根据国际法，金正日及其最高领导层应该以发动和教唆反人类罪的罪名被起诉，即使犯罪者是下级人员。
North Korea, perhaps the world’s most isolated country, denounced the findings by the commission of inquiry, calling them lies and propaganda concocted by its enemies, principally the United States.
朝鲜也许是世界上最被孤立的国家，它对调查委员会的结果予以谴责，称这是以美国为主的敌国炮制的谎言和政治宣传。