SEOUL, South Korae — Recent inspections and seizures of banned cargo have shown that North Korea is using increasingly deceptive techniques to circumvent international sanctions, a panel of experts said in a report to the United Nations Security Council published Tuesday.
韩国首尔——周二公布的提交给联合国安理会的一份专家委员会报告称，近期的检查行动及对被禁货物的扣押显示，朝鲜正越来越多地采用欺骗性手段来绕过国际制裁。
After a series of nuclear and long-range ballistic missile tests by North Korea over the past decade, the Security Council has adopted resolutions calling for increasingly vigorous sanctions aimed at crippling the North’s financial and technical capability to build weapons of mass destruction.
过去10年间，朝鲜进行了一系列核试验与远程弹道导弹试验。安理会随后采纳了数份决议，呼吁对其采取愈发严厉的制裁措施，以期严重削弱朝鲜打造大规模杀伤性武器的经济与技术能力。
In its latest annual report, posted Tuesday on the United Nations website, the panel of eight experts said that North Korea has persisted in defying those resolutions not only by continuing its nuclear and ballistic missile programs but also by engaging in illegal arms trade.
这份最新的年度报告于周二公布在联合国网站上。由八名专家组成的委员会在文中表示，朝鲜一直在违抗相关决议，不仅继续实施其核计划和弹道导弹计划，还参与非法武器贸易。
“It is experienced in actions it takes to evade sanctions,” the panel said. “It makes increasing use of multiple and tiered circumvention techniques.”
“朝鲜在逃避制裁的行动层面经验丰富，”文中写道，“该国越来越多地采用多重与分层级的回避手法。”
The panel said the case of the North Korean cargo ship Chong Chon Gang had provided unrivaled insight into some of those techniques. The vessel was stopped by the Panamanian authorities in July 2013 while carrying undeclared weapons that had been hidden under 10,000 tons of sugar from Cuba.
委员会表示，朝鲜货船“清川江号”(Chong Chon Gang)向外界提供了一窥其部分手法的绝佳机会。2013年7月，这艘货船遭巴拿马当局查扣，在船上的1万吨古巴糖下面，掩藏着未经申报的武器。
An investigation showed that the North Korean crew had used secret codes in communications, falsified the ship’s logs and switched off an electronic system that would otherwise have provided real-time information on the ship’s location to the international maritime authorities, the panel said. It added that it suspected the North Korean embassies in Cuba and Singapore of helping to arrange the arms shipment.
报告称，调查显示，朝鲜船员采用密码通讯、伪造了航海日志，并且关闭了本应向国际海事监管机构报告船只实时位置信息的电子系统。文中还表示，委员会怀疑，朝鲜驻古巴和新加坡的大使馆协助安排了这些武器运输活动。