SYDNEY, Australia — Australia’s indefinite detention of 46 recognized refugees amounts to cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, a United Nations committee said Thursday, applying more international pressure on the government’s toughened policies toward asylum seekers.
澳大利亚悉尼——联合国(United Nations)的一个委员会于周四表示，澳大利亚无限期关押46名身份得到承认的难民的举动，已经达到了残忍、不人道和有辱人格的程度。委员会的谴责给澳大利亚政府对避难申请者实施的强硬政策施加了更大的国际压力。
The United Nations Human Rights Committee called on Australia to release the refugees, many of whom have been held for more than two years, and offer them compensation for what it said was the “serious psychological harm” that had been inflicted upon them.
联合国人权委员会(United Nations Human Rights Committee)呼吁澳大利亚释放这些难民，其中许多人已经被关押了两年多。委员会还呼吁澳大利亚政府向难民提供赔偿，原因是他们认为难民遭受了“严重的心理伤害”。
The announcement came less than a month after the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said it was “troubled” by new Australian policies aimed at stemming the flow of people making dangerous boat journeys to seek asylum here.
委员会的声明发表不到一个月之前，联合国难民事务高级专员公署(Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees)曾经表示，澳大利亚的新政策给他们造成了“麻烦”，新政策意在阻止人们冒险乘搭小船到澳洲寻求庇护。
The refugees mentioned by the committee on Thursday appealed to the United Nations, saying they were unable to challenge the legality of their detention in Australian courts. A majority of the detained refugees are ethnic Tamils from Sri Lanka, but they also include Rohingya from Myanmar and at least one Kuwaiti. They are being detained as potential security threats.
委员会周四提到的这些难民向联合国提出了申诉，称自己无法在澳大利亚的法庭上质疑自己被扣押的合法性。大多数被扣难民都是来自斯里兰卡的少数民族泰米尔人(Tamil)，不过，其中也包括缅甸的罗兴亚人(Rohingya)和至少一名科威特人。他们被当作潜在的安全威胁关押起来。
Most of the thousands of people who seek asylum in Australia each year come from Iran, Afghanistan or Sri Lanka, find their way to Indonesia and then set out in crowded, often unsafe vessels to reach Christmas Island, a remote outpost in the Indian Ocean that is the closest Australian territory to Indonesia. About 1,000 such asylum seekers are believed to have died in recent years in accidents at sea.
每年都有数千人到澳大利亚申请避难，其中大多数人来自伊朗，阿富汗或斯里兰卡，他们辗转抵达印度尼西亚，然后乘搭拥挤且往往不安全的渡船抵达圣诞岛，圣诞岛是印度洋上一个偏远岛屿，也是距离印尼最近的澳大利亚领土。近些年，据信大约有1000名这样的避难申请者死于海上事故。
Under a stringent new system announced last month by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, those who reach Australian territory by boat are to be sent to refugee-processing centers in Papua New Guinea to await determination of whether they are entitled to refugee status under the United Nations convention on refugees. If they do qualify, they will be settled in Papua New Guinea and forfeit any right to seek asylum in Australia.
按照澳大利亚总理陆克文(Kevin Rudd)上个月宣布的一个严苛的新机制，那些乘小船抵达澳大利亚领土的人将被送往巴布亚新几内亚的难民处置中心，在那里等候对他们的裁决，即他们是否有权获得联合国难民公约项下的难民资格。如果他们确实符合条件，就会被安置在巴布亚新几内亚，丧失任何向澳大利亚申请避难的权利。
The issue of what to do with asylum seekers is among the most contentious in Australian politics. The criticism from the United Nations comes as Mr. Rudd is engaged in a difficult re-election campaign, with voting scheduled for Sept. 7.
如何处理避难申请者，是澳大利亚最具争议的政治问题之一。联合国发表这一谴责的时候，陆克文正在参与艰难的总理连任竞选，投票日定在9月7日。
In recent weeks, Mr. Rudd and the opposition leader, Tony Abbott, have both sought to define themselves as the toughest candidate on asylum seekers. Mr. Abbott has threatened to deny permanent residency to about 32,000 asylum candidates already in Australia, and he would strip them of the right to appeal against negative refugee-status rulings.
最近几周，陆克文和反对党领袖托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)都在竭力证明，在对待避难申请者的问题上，自己才是最强硬的总理候选人。澳大利亚国内目前有大约3.2万名避难申请者，阿博特已经发出威胁，要拒绝授予他们永久居留权，并剥夺他们对否定难民身份的裁决提出上诉的权利。
A decade ago, under Prime Minister John Howard, Australia had a policy of sending asylum seekers to neighboring island nations for lengthy processing, which was intended to deter claims of asylum on Australia’s shores. Mr. Rudd abandoned that policy when he became prime minister for the first time in 2007, a move that led to a surge in the number of arrivals.
十年前，约翰·霍华德(John Howard)担任总理时，澳大利亚的政策是把避难者送到邻近的岛屿国家去等待漫长的处理过程，目的是阻止人们在澳大利亚国内申请避难。2007年首次就任总理时，陆克文取消了这项政策，导致入境人数激增。
In 2012, Prime Minister Julia Gillard opened new offshore detention centers on Nauru and on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea, but those centers lacked the capacity to handle the deluge of arrivals and did little to discourage them. It is unclear whether Mr. Rudd’s new approach is deterring would-be refugees.
2012年，时任总理朱莉娅·吉拉德(Julia Gillard)在瑙鲁和巴布亚新几内亚的马努斯岛开设了新的离岸拘留中心，但这些中心没有能力招架像洪水一般涌来的入境者，也没有起到什么劝阻他们的作用。目前还不清楚，陆克文的新方法是否能阻止未来的避难申请者。
Most of the detainees mentioned in the statement arrived in Australia between March 2009 and December 2010, and they were first sent to Christmas Island before being transferred into the network of immigration detention facilities that the government maintains across the country.
联合国声明提及的被扣押者大多数都是在2009年3月至2010年12月之间抵达澳大利亚，他们最初被送到圣诞岛，后来又被转入政府在全国各地设立的拘留设施。
Seven of the refugees who appealed to the United Nations have been released from detention since their claims were lodged, the United Nations said. The other 39 remain in detention.
联合国说，自从难民向联合国提出申述后，7名难民已经获释。其余39名仍然在押。