The head of the United Nations panel on climate science resigned on Tuesday after allegations of sexual harassment were filed against him in India, where he lives and works.
在印度受到性骚扰指控后，联合国研究气候科学的委员会的负责人于周二辞职。他在印度生活和工作。
Rajendra K. Pachauri, whose 13 years as chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change had made him one of the world’s most important voices on the risks of global warming, had been scheduled to leave the post in October. But he tendered his resignation early after news that a woman employed at an institute that he heads in India had accused him of unwanted text messages, emails and other contact.
拉金德拉·K·帕乔里(Rajendra K. Pachauri)担任政府间气候变化专门委员会(Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change)主席一职长达13年。这段经历使他成为世界上全球变暖风险方面最重要的声音之一。他原计划于十月份离职。但在有新闻报道一名女性指控他发送骚扰短信、电子邮件和其他通讯之后，他提前递交了辞呈。这名女性在他负责的一家印度机构工作。
The accuser, 29, has not been publicly identified. Lawyers for Dr. Pachauri, 74, have said in court filings that his computer and phone were hacked and that the unwanted messages were sent by someone else to make him look bad. The police in India are investigating, as is an internal-complaints committee at the Energy and Resources Institute in New Delhi.
29岁指控者的身份目前并未被公开。律师们在法庭文件中说，现年74岁的帕乔里博士的电脑和电话被他人非法入侵并用以发送骚扰信息，以使他难堪。印度警察正在进行调查，位于新德里的能源与资源机构(Energy and Resources Institute)的内部投诉委员会也在进行调查。
The allegations could take years to resolve in India’s slow-moving justice system. “The I.P.C.C. needs strong leadership and dedication of time and full attention by the chair in the immediate future, which under the current circumstances I may be unable to provide,” Dr. Pachauri wrote in his resignation letter.
在印度低效的司法系统里，这些指控可能需要数年时间才能得以解决。帕乔里博士在辞职信中写道，“在未来短期内，IPCC（政府间气候变化专门委员会的简称——译注）需要主席强有力的领导和全身心的投入。而在当前的情况下，我可能无法保证这些”。
The panel is a worldwide committee of thousands of scientists and other experts, appointed by the United Nations and its member governments, who review and periodically summarize the findings of climate research. The chairman’s role is largely organizational and ceremonial.
该委员会汇集了全世界数千名科学家和其他专家。他们由联合国和成员国政府任命，职责是评估和定期总结气候研究的成果。主席主要起到组织和仪式性的作用。
The group’s increasingly urgent warnings about the risks of unchecked greenhouse-gas emissions have galvanized a worldwide effort — costing hundreds of billions of dollars a year, but so far largely unsuccessful — to bring them under control.
针对不加限制地排放温室气体的风险，委员会发出了愈发紧迫的警告。这些警告激起了一项世界范围控制温室气体排放的行动——这项行动每年花费数千亿美元，但到目前为止成效甚微。
Under Dr. Pachauri’s leadership, the panel won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007, along with Al Gore, for its efforts to warn the public about the risks of climate change, and Dr. Pachauri accepted the prize on its behalf at a ceremony that year in Oslo.
在帕乔里博士的领导下，委员会与阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)一起赢得了2007年诺贝尔和平奖，以表彰它为就气候变化的风险警告公众所作出的努力。当年在奥斯陆，帕乔里博士代表委员会在颁奖仪式上领了奖。
But that moment of triumph was followed by several black eyes for the panel, including the finding that one of its reports had exaggerated the rate of melting of glaciers in the Himalayas. Dr. Pachauri resisted calls in 2010 for his resignation.
但紧随那胜利一刻而来的是几个令委员会名誉扫地的事情，其中包括一份夸大喜马拉雅山脉冰川融化速度的报告。2010年，帕乔里博士回绝了让他辞职的呼声。
His efforts in recent years included trying to tighten the panel’s review procedures.
他近几年的努力包括试图将委员会的评估流程变得更加严格。
The resignation came as a meeting of the I.P.C.C. was starting in Nairobi, Kenya. The panel, which completed its fifth major assessment of climate science last fall at a meeting in Copenhagen, is debating how to organize its future efforts.
这次辞职正值IPCC在肯尼亚内罗毕的会议刚刚揭开帷幕。去年秋天，委员会在哥本哈根开会完成了其第五次重大气候科学评估。委员会正在讨论如何安排日后的工作。
In a statement that included no substantive discussion of the allegations against Dr. Pachauri, the panel said that its vice chairman, Ismail El Gizouli, would serve as interim chairman until a new leader was elected in October.
在一则声明中，委员会表示副主席伊斯梅尔·埃尔·吉周里(Ismail El Gizouli)将出任临时主席，直到十月份选出新负责人为止。此声明并未深入讨论针对帕乔里博士的指控。
The I.P.C.C. has long been a target of criticism for opponents of the scientific consensus on climate change, and they issued new denunciations of both Dr. Pachauri and the panel over the past week as details of the harassment allegations emerged in India.
长期以来，IPCC都是对气候变化的科学共识持反对意见的人的靶子。随着关于骚扰指控的细节在印度浮出水面，他们在上周对帕乔里博士和委员会表示了新的谴责。