UNITED NATIONS — The morning after an aid convoy came under fire when it tried to reach a besieged Syrian city, a meeting here on a draft resolution that would force all parties in the bloody conflict to allow access for humanitarian organizations fell apart when representatives from Russia and China failed to show up, Security Council diplomats said.
联合国——驻联合国安理会(Security Council)的一些外交官表示，一支救援车队在设法抵达被围困的叙利亚某城时遭到袭击，由于俄罗斯和中国代表未能现身，联合国于第二天上午就决议草案举行的会议无果而终，该草案本可迫使流血冲突中的各方准许人道主义组织进入他们的地盘。
On Monday afternoon, the Russian ambassador to the United Nations, Vitaly I. Churkin, did not directly say he would veto the draft if it came up for a vote, but called it “one of those political things” that would not be adopted by the Security Council. “This text would not have any practical, positive impact on the situation,” Mr. Churkin said.
本周一下午，俄罗斯驻联合国大使维塔利·I·丘尔金(Vitaly I. Churkin)并没有直接宣称，如果会议提出就草案进行表决，他会行使否决权。不过，他把草案称作不会被安理会采纳的“那类政治方案之一”。丘尔金说，“这份草案不会对局势产生任何实际的积极影响。”
The Chinese Mission declined to comment.
中国代表团拒绝置评。
A United Nations spokesman said that 11 people were killed as aid workers delivered food and medicine over the weekend to the old city of Homs. About 800 people, mainly women, children and elderly people, have been evacuated so far, and some of them told United Nations officials that they had resorted to eating grass and weeds to survive.
联合国发言人称，救援人员于上周末向赫姆斯老城运送食品和药品，其间有11人被杀。目前，该城已有约800人得到疏散，主要是女性、儿童和老人，其中的一些人对联合国官员说，他们不得不靠吃青草和野草为生。
A World Food Program official said on Twitter that in a measure of distress from food shortage, one family spoke of paying a one-kilogram ransom of bulgur wheat for the return of their abducted daughter.
世界粮食规划署(World Food Program)的一名官员在Twitter上表示，有一家人提到，为了赎回他们被绑架的女儿，他们用了一公斤麦片作为赎金，此事突显了食品短缺灾情的严重程度。
It remained to be seen whether the Security Council would push the draft to deliver relief to the estimated 250,000 people in besieged Syrian cities and towns to a vote, forcing Russia to veto it. Council members have one eye on Geneva, where political negotiations resumed on Monday between the Syrian government and a coalition of rebel groups. They were also awaiting a briefing on Syria from the United Nations emergency relief coordinator, Valerie Amos, on Thursday.
安理会是否会推动该草案的表决，迫使俄罗斯行使否决权尚有待观察，该草案的目的是向困在叙利亚各市镇的估计约25万人口运送救援物资。安理会成员国都在留意日内瓦的动向，本周一，叙利亚政府和反对派组织联盟在这里重启了政治谈判。与此同时，成员国还在等待负责叙利亚救援事务的联合国协调员瓦莱丽·阿莫斯(Valerie Amos)将在本周四发表的简报。
Ms. Amos, a veteran British politician, has carefully avoided calling for a resolution, though over the weekend, she ratcheted up her outrage at attacks on an aid convoy as it entered Homs, saying on Twitter on Sunday that the international community “must raise its voice” to condemn the attacks.
阿莫斯是一名经验丰富的英国政客，一直在小心翼翼地避免呼吁出台决议，不过上周末，她强烈地表达了自己对救援车队在进入赫姆斯时遇袭一事的愤慨情绪。周日，她在Twitter上表示，国际社会“必须提高音量”谴责此次袭击。
The draft resolution, which is to be presented to the 15 Council members on Tuesday, condemns attacks against humanitarian workers, expresses “grave alarm” at the plight of civilians trapped in the fighting, most of whom it said are “besieged by the Syrian armed forces,” and deplores blockades of aid.
决议草案定于周二提交15个安理会成员国，谴责了针对人道主义救援人员的袭击，并对在战斗中被困平民的困境表达了“深重担忧”。草案说其中的大多数人“是被叙利亚武装力量所困”，并且谴责了封锁救援行动的行为。
It specifically calls on the Syrian government of President Bashar al-Assad to cease “aerial bombardment” against civilians, including the use of so-called barrel bombs, urges rebels to dissociate themselves from terrorist groups, including Al Qaeda, and calls on foreign fighters, including members of Hezbollah from Lebanon and the Quds Force from Iran, to leave the country. It also contains a paragraph on accountability for war criminals, and proposes imposing measures on individuals and entities that obstruct aid delivery.
决议草案特别呼吁巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)总统领导的叙利亚政府停止针对平民的“空中轰炸”，包括停止使用所谓的油桶炸弹。草案也敦促反抗分子脱离包括基地组织(Al Qaeda)在内的恐怖组织， 并呼吁包括黎巴嫩真主党(Hezbollah)成员和伊朗圣城军(Quds Force)成员在内的外国战士离开叙利亚。草案还有一段内容说到了对战争罪犯的追责，提议对阻碍援助物资运送的个人和组织采取措施。
Only after a briefing by Ms. Amos’ on Thursday are Council members likely to decide whether to put the resolution to a vote. If it comes up for a vote in its current form, it is likely to be rejected by Russia and possibly also China, both permanent members of the Council.
听取了阿莫斯周四的汇报之后，安理会成员国才可能决定是否对决议进行表决。如果以现在的形式提交表决，决议可能会遭到俄罗斯甚或中国的反对。中俄两国均是安理会常任理事国。
The United States ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, has said that she favors a resolution.
美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)已经表示，她赞成达成决议。
Yet Richard Gowan, an analyst at New York University, said he was skeptical that either the supporters or critics of the Syrian government would be eager to push for a measure to let in aid.
然而，纽约大学(New York University)分析人士理查德·高恩(Richard Gowan)表示，他怀疑，批评和支持叙利亚政府的人都不会急于推动达成一项准许援助物资进入的措施。
“With the Geneva talks back in session, neither Russia nor the U.S. will want a fight over a humanitarian resolution to upset Brahimi’s diplomatic efforts,” he said, referring to Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations special envoy who is mediating the Geneva talks. “Nonetheless, Russia will doubtless insist that any resolution must condemn rebel and terrorist attacks on humanitarian workers. While the facts of the incidents in Homs remain unclear, the image of general chaos plays into Russia’s hands.”
鉴于日内瓦谈判已经重启，俄罗斯和美国都不希望围绕人道主义决议的斗争扰乱卜拉希米的外交努力，”他说。他提到的是正在协调日内瓦谈判的联合国特使拉赫达尔·卜拉希米(Lakhdar Brahimi)。“然而，俄罗斯无疑会坚持要求，任何决议必须谴责反叛分子和恐怖分子对人道主义工作者发动的攻击。虽然赫姆斯事件的真实情况依然不明朗，大范围混乱的局面却给了俄罗斯可乘之机。”
The effect of any resolution would be limited. Its adoption would signify that the world powers are unified in insisting on humanitarian access. And it would fall under Chapter VI of the United Nations Charter, which means that it would not threaten any use of force against those who flout it. Council members could, in theory, follow up with resolutions that include tougher language.
任何决议都不会有太大成效。决议的通过将标志着世界大国在坚持让人道主义援助进入叙利亚这一点上达成了统一。同时，决议将受制于联合国宪章(United Nations Charter) 第六章的规定，这就意味着决议不会威胁对那些藐视它的人使用武力。从理论上说，安理会成员国可以继续达成措辞更强硬的决议。
On Monday, the secretary general’s office refused to comment on who might have fired at a convoy of aid workers with the Syrian Arab Red Crescent accompanied by United Nations officials. “I don’t think we would want to get into apportioning blame,” Martin Nesirky, a spokesman for the secretary general, said at his daily news briefing.
周一，联合国秘书长办公室拒绝评论朝叙利亚阿拉伯红新月会(Syrian Arab Red Crescent)的援助人员车队开火的是谁。袭击发生之时，一些联合国官员正与车队同行。“我觉得，我们并不想摊派责任，”秘书长发言人马丁·内西尔基(Martin Nesirky)在他的每日记者会上说。
The three-day cease-fire agreed to for Homs was extended for an additional three days, Mr. Nesirky added.
内西尔基补充说，为期三天的赫姆斯停火协议又延长了三天。
In Moscow, the Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman, A. K. Lukashevich, blamed the aid convoy attacks on cease-fire violations by “militants” intending to disrupt the Geneva talks.
在莫斯科，俄罗斯外交部发言人A·K·卢卡舍维奇(A. K. Lukashevich)谴责称，袭击救援车队的是违反停火协议的“武装分子”，意在破坏日内瓦谈判。