GENEVA — Public executions, often beheadings, are becoming a “common spectacle” in parts of Syria controlled by Islamic militants, and government forces there continue to massacre and torture civilians, a United Nations panel said in a report released on Wednesday.
日内瓦——联合国一个小组在周三发布的一份报告中说，在伊斯兰武装分子控制的叙利亚地区，往往以斩首形式的公开处决，正在成为一种“常见奇观”，而那里的政府军也在继续屠杀和蹂躏平民。
The three-year civil war in Syria, which began between government and opposition groups, has evolved into multiple, shifting conflicts involving countless armed groups, in which government forces and Islamic militants are routinely committing war crimes and crimes against humanity, the four-member panel said in its eighth report since it was set up three years ago.
历时三年的叙利亚内战，始于政府和反对派团体之间，已演化成许多武装组织参与的不断且多变的冲突，包括政府军和伊斯兰武装分子在内的参与各方，常规性地犯下战争罪和反人类罪，这是一个四人小组的第八份报告中的结论，这个小组成立于三年前。
Government forces had made significant advances in most strategic areas, the panel found, but the most marked change in the conflict was the increasing strength of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, strengthened by military hardware it had seized in Iraq and combining brutality with the provision of basic services and jobs that helped curb resentment over its harsh rule.
该小组发现，政府部队在最具战略意义的地区取得了显著进展，但冲突中最显著的变化是，伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（简称ISIS）的实力不断增强，ISIS得以增强自己的力量靠的是，从伊拉克缴获武器装备，以及把其残暴与提供基本服务和就业相结合，以缓解对其残暴统治的不满。 
“The overall scale of the violations continues to increase regardless of the parties perpetrating them,” Paulo Pinheiro, the chairman of the panel, told a news conference in Geneva, voicing frustration at the paralysis on Syria in the United Nations Security Council. “This paralysis is responsible for acute harm to victims of this war,” he said.
小组长保罗·皮涅罗(Paulo Pinheiro)在日内瓦的一个记者会上说，“无论哪个组织在侵犯人权，这类行为的整体规模在继续增长。”他对联合国安理会在叙利亚问题上的瘫痪表示无奈， “瘫痪对给这场战争的受害者带来严重的痛苦负有责任，”他说。
“Government forces continued to perpetrate massacres and conduct widespread attacks on civilians, systematically committing murder, torture, rape and enforced disappearance,” the panel said, drawing on testimony collected in the six months that ended July 21.
该小组说，“政府军继续进行大屠杀，并对平民进行广泛的袭击，将他们系统地谋杀、虐待、强奸和强迫失踪。”这一结论来自7月21日结束的、6个月的证词收集工作。
The government, lacking sufficient combat troops to attack opposition forces on all fronts, has used heavy air and artillery bombardment, striking markets, shops, hospitals, schools and other places where civilians gather, rather than the military capacities of armed enemy groups, the panel said.
该小组说，政府由于缺乏足够的作战部队，不能在所有战线上打击反对派武装，于是采用了重型炮击和空中轰炸的方式，袭击市场、商店、医院、学校和其他平民聚集的地方，而不是针对武装敌对团体的军事能力。
In April, when Syria was completing the disposal of its chemical arsenal, the panel said it had found credible evidence that government helicopters had used chlorine gas in barrel bomb attacks on the civilian-inhabited areas of Idlib and Hama.
今年4月，当叙利亚正在完成销毁其化学武器库的工作时，该小组称，他们发现了可信的证据表明，政府的直升机在伊德利卜和哈马的平民居住地区，使用了氯气桶炸弹。
Chlorine, a common industrial chemical, is not covered by the chemical weapons convention under which Syria destroyed its stockpile of highly toxic sarin and mustard gas, but use of any chemical agent for military purposes is a war crime, the panel said.
氯气是常见的工业化学品，它不被包括在化学武器公约中，该公约是叙利亚销毁剧毒的沙林和芥子毒气库存的依据。但该小组说，把任何化学制品用于军事目的都是战争罪行。
Nongovernmental armed groups have also committed massacres and war crimes, the panel said, deliberately attacking civilians with indiscriminate artillery fire, conducting summary executions and torture, taking hostages and targeting medical and religious personnel and journalists. ISIS did not have a monopoly on the violence, panel members stressed, saying other armed groups were also brutal.
该小组表示，非政府的武装团体也犯下了大屠杀和战争罪，包括不加区别地蓄意炮击平民，草草处决和酷刑，劫持人质，以及把医疗人员、宗教人员和记者作为袭击目标。小组成员强调说，ISIS对暴力没有垄断，其他武装团体也很残忍。
“Executions in public spaces have become a common spectacle on Fridays” in the regions of Raqqah and Aleppo, which are controlled by ISIS, the panel said. It cited dozens of documented beheadings and described how ISIS encouraged residents to watch them. Some victims’ bodies were displayed on crucifixes for days afterward as a warning to residents, the report added.
该小组说，在ISIS控制的拉卡和阿勒颇地区，“公共场所的处决已成为周五的一种常见奇观。”小组列举几十次有记录的斩首，并描述了ISIS如何鼓励居民观看。一些受害者的尸体之后会被钉在十字架上展示数日，作为对居民的警告，小组的报告补充道。
Most of the victims were adult men accused of being affiliated with other armed groups or of violating an ISIS criminal code, but the victims also included five people under the age of 18 who were executed in April, and two women who were stoned to death by mobs.
大多数受害者是成年男子，他们被指控隶属于其他武装团体、或违反了ISIS的某条刑法，但受害者中也包括5名18岁以下的人，他们是在4月份被处决的，还有两名女性，她们是被暴徒用石头砸死的。
Detainees held by government forces as well as those taken by armed opposition groups have faced torture and cruel treatment, the panel said. Government intelligence agencies have subjected “tens of thousands of victims to unimaginable suffering,” the panel said, citing a rise in the number of people who have reportedly died in government detention centers from torture, starvation or lack of medical attention.
该小组说，被政府军或反对派武装团体拘留的人，都面临着酷刑和残忍待遇。政府情报机构让“数以万计的受害者遭受了无法想象的痛苦，”该小组引用数据说，据报道，在政府拘留中心因酷刑、饥饿或缺乏医疗条件而死亡的人数在上升。
In Aleppo and Raqqah, “public squares have become the scene of amputations, lashings and mock crucifixions,” the panel said. Men have been lashed for accompanying women who were “not properly dressed,” and women were beaten for not properly covering themselves, sometimes by female members of ISIS.
在阿勒颇和拉卡，“公共广场已经成为砍掉肢体、鞭刑，以及嘲弄式十字架受难的现场，”该小组说。有的男子因陪伴“穿着不得宜”的女子出行而遭鞭刑；女子遭鞭打有时由ISIS的女性成员执行，则是因为她们没有把自己遮蔽好。