YOKOHAMA, Japan — Climate change is already having sweeping effects on every continent and throughout the world’s oceans, scientists reported Monday, and they warned that the problem is likely to grow substantially worse unless greenhouse emissions are brought under control.
日本横滨——科学家们周一报告称，气候变化已经对每个大洲和全世界所有的大洋产生了深远的影响。他们还警告，除非温室气体的排放得到控制，否则这一问题很有可能大幅恶化。
The report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a United Nations group that periodically summarizes climate science, concluded that ice caps are melting, sea ice in the Arctic is collapsing, water supplies are coming under stress, heat waves and heavy rains are intensifying, coral reefs are dying, and fish and many other creatures are migrating toward the poles or in some cases going extinct.
政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）隶属于联合国，定期汇总关于气候科学方面的信息。这个委员会得出结论，现在冰盖正在融化，北冰洋上的浮冰也在瓦解，与此同时水资源供应出现紧张状况，热浪和暴雨日益加剧，珊瑚礁正在消亡，鱼类和很多其他生物朝着两极迁徙，有些甚至面临灭绝的危险。
The oceans are rising at a pace that threatens coastal communities and are becoming more acidic as they absorb some of the carbon dioxide given off by cars and power plants, which is killing some creatures or stunting their growth, the report found.
报告同样指出，海平面上升的速度正威胁着沿海地区的居民，海洋也因为吸附了由汽车和发电厂所排放的二氧化碳而逐渐酸化，导致一些生物死亡或生长受到阻碍。
Organic matter frozen in Arctic soils since before civilization began is now melting, allowing it to decay into greenhouse gases that will cause further warming, the scientists said.
冰冻在北极圈内土壤里的一些有机质自人类文明开始前就已存在，可如今也在融化，科学家们说，如果让这些物质转化为温室气体，只会让全球变暖更加严重。
And the worst is yet to come, the scientists said in the second of three reports that are expected to carry considerable weight next year as nations try to agree on a new global climate treaty. In particular, the report emphasized that the world’s food supply is at considerable risk — a threat that could have serious consequences for the poorest nations.
科学家们在这份报告中称，最糟的还不只这样。报告中尤其强调，全世界的粮食供应都处在极大危险当中——这一威胁会对最贫困的国家产生严重后果。该报告是三个报告中的第二个报告，明年世界各国会尝试就一项新的全球气候协定达成共识，预计这些报告届时会受到相当的重视。
The report was among the most sobering yet issued by the intergovernmental panel. The group, along with Al Gore, won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for its efforts to clarify the risks of climate change. The report released on Monday in Yokohama is the final work of several hundred authors; details from the drafts of this and of the last report in the series, which will be released next month, leaked in the last few months.
这是IPCC迄今为止发表的最令人警醒的报告之一。这个委员会在2007年同阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)一起获得了诺贝尔和平奖，原因是为阐明气候变化的风险所做出的种种努力。周一在横滨发表的报告是几百位作者的最终成果；这一系列报告中，此份报告及下一份报告的草稿中的细节在过去几个月里被泄露了出来。最后的那份报告将于下个月发布。
The report attempts to project how the effects will alter human society in coming decades. While the impact of global warming may actually be outweighed by factors like economic or technological change, the report found, the disruptions are nonetheless likely to be profound.
这一报告试图阐述环境变化对人类社会未来几十年所产生的影响。尽管经济及科技的进步也许可以和全球变暖的影响相抵消，报告还是指出，环境变化有可能引发相当大的混乱。
It cited the risk of death or injury on a widespread scale, probable damage to public health, displacement of people and potential mass migrations.
报告列举了大规模死亡或身体伤害的风险、对公众健康的可能危害、人员流离失所，以及大规模迁徙的可能。
“Throughout the 21st century, climate-change impacts are projected to slow down economic growth, make poverty reduction more difficult, further erode food security, and prolong existing and create new poverty traps, the latter particularly in urban areas and emerging hotspots of hunger,” the report declared.
报告表明，“在整个21世纪，气候变化的影响预计会减缓经济增长，让消除贫困愈发困难，进一步危害食品安全， 加深已经存在的贫困性陷阱，并产生新的陷阱，而此现象在城市地区及新兴的饥饿热点地带尤为明显。”
The report also cites the possibility of violent conflict over land or other resources, brought on indirectly by climate change “by exacerbating well-established drivers of these conflicts such as poverty and economic shocks.”
报告还列举了间接由气候变化引起，为了土地和其他资源发生暴力冲突的可能。气候变化“加剧了这些长久以来导致冲突的驱动因素，比如贫困和经济动荡。”
The scientists emphasized that climate change is not just some problem of the distant future, but is happening now. For instance, in much of the American West, mountain snowpack is declining, threatening water supplies for the region, the scientists reported. And the snow that does fall is melting earlier in the year, which means there is less meltwater to ease the parched summers.
科学家们强调，气候变化不仅仅是遥远的未来需要考虑的问题，而是现在的当务之急。举例来说，美国西部很多地区山上的积雪正在减少，威胁到了当地的水供给。而仅有的降雪在今年也融化的更早，这意味着只会有越来越少的融化雪水来缓和炎热的夏天。
In Alaska, the collapse of sea ice is allowing huge waves to strike the coast, causing erosion so rapid that it is already forcing entire communities to relocate.
在阿拉斯加，海上浮冰的瓦解使得巨大的浪潮袭击海岸线，造成频繁的水土流失，这已经让多个沿岸社区不得不全体迁移。
The experts did find a bright spot, however. Since the group issued its report in 2007, it has found growing evidence that governments and businesses around the world are starting extensive plans to adapt to climate disruptions, even as some conservatives in the United States and a small number of scientists continue to deny that a problem exists.
不过，专家也的确发现了一个亮点。自从该小组2007年发布报告以来，已经找到了越来越多的证据，它们显示世界各国的政府和企业都已经启动了广泛的计划，以适应气候变化的冲击，即使美国一些保守派及少数科学家仍然在否认问题的存在。
“I think that dealing effectively with climate change is just going to be something that great nations do,” said Christopher B. Field, co-chairman of the working group that wrote the report, and an earth scientist at the Carnegie Institution for Science in Stanford, Calif.
“我想，有效地应对气候变化，会成为大国的使命，”撰写这份报告的工作组的联席主席克里斯托弗·B·菲尔德(Christopher B. Field)说。菲尔德是卡内基科学研究所(Carnegie Institution for Science)在加州斯坦福的地球科学家。
Talk of adaptation to global warming was once avoided in some quarters, on the grounds that it would distract from the need to cut emissions. But the past few years have seen a shift in thinking, including research from scientists and economists who argue that both strategies must be pursued at once.
在一些领域，人们一度会回避如何适应全球变暖这个话题，理由是那样就会转移人们对需要削减排放的注意力。然而过去几年里，思路发生了转变，一些科学家和经济作家所做的研究也指出，两种策略需要同时执行。
But with a global failure to limit greenhouse gases, the risk is rising that climatic changes in coming decades could overwhelm such efforts to adapt, the panel found. It cited a particular risk that in a hotter climate, farmers will not be able to keep up with the fast-rising demand for food.
然而由于全世界并未成功地限制温室气体的排放，委员会认为，适应的努力远远无法应对未来几十年气候变化的加剧。委员会具体提到了一种风险，即在气候变暖后，农民无力满足高速增长的粮食需求。
“When supply falls below demand, somebody doesn’t have enough food,” said Michael Oppenheimer, a Princeton University climate scientist who helped write the new report. “When some people don’t have food, you get starvation. Yes, I’m worried.”
“如果供应少于需求，那么有人就会得不到足够的粮食，”普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)气候科学家迈克尔·奥本海默(Michael Oppenheimer)说。“如果有人得不到足够多的粮食，他们就会挨饿。是的，我很担心。”奥本海默参与了新报告的撰写。
The poorest people in the world, who have had virtually nothing to do with causing global warming, will be high on the list of victims as climatic disruptions intensify, the report said. It cited a World Bank estimate that poor countries need as much as $100 billion a year to try to offset the effects of climate change; they are now getting, at best, a few billion dollars a year in such aid from rich countries.
报告说，世界上最贫困的人口几乎完全没有加剧全球变暖，然而随着气候变化的干扰加剧，他们却会首当其冲地承受后果。报告中提到，世界银行(World Bank)估计穷国每年需要多达1000亿美元，努力对抗气候变化的后果，但目前他们每年从富国拿到的此类援助最多也只有几十亿美元。
The $100 billion figure, though included in the 2,500-page main report, was removed from a 48-page executive summary to be read by the world’s top political leaders. It was among the most significant changes made as the summary underwent final review during a dayslong editing session in Yokohama.
尽管1000亿美元的数字包含在长达2500页的主报告中，但在供世界政治领导人阅读的48页摘要中，这一数字却被删除了。在横滨举行的一场为期一天的编辑会议中，摘要经过了最后审读。这一修改是审读过程中最重要改动之一。
The edit came after several rich countries, including the United States, raised questions about the language, according to several people who were in the room at the time but did not wish to be identified because the negotiations are private.
做出这个修改是因为包括美国在内的若干个富国对措辞提出了疑问，当时身在会议室的数人透露。由于讨论是在私下进行的，所以他们不愿公布身份。
The language is contentious because poor countries are expected to renew their demand for aid this September in New York at a summit meeting of world leaders, who will attempt to make headway on a new treaty to limit greenhouse gases.
措辞存在争议是因为，今年9月将在纽约举行的一场世界领导人峰会上，穷国会再次提出索取援助的要求。各国领导人将寻求在一项限制温室气体排放的新条约上取得新进展。
Many rich countries argue that $100 billion a year is an unrealistic demand; it would essentially require them to double their budgets for foreign aid, at a time of economic distress at home. That argument has fed a rising sense of outrage among the leaders of poor countries, who feel their people are paying the price for decades of profligate Western consumption.
许多富国认为，每年1000亿美元的要求不切实际，这实际上是要求富国在国内经济困难之时，把海外援助预算翻一番。这种论调让穷国领导人之间产生了越来越强烈的愤怒，他们感觉自己的人民在为西方数十年来肆无忌惮的消费承担代价。
Two decades of international efforts to limit emissions have yielded little result, and it is not clear whether the negotiations in New York this fall will be any different. While greenhouse gases have begun to decline slightly in many wealthy countries, including the United States, those gains are being swamped by emissions from rising economic powers like China and India.
20年来，国际社会约束温室气体排放的尝试可谓收效甚微，外界也并不清楚今年秋天在纽约举行的谈判能否产生任何不同的结果。尽管在包括美国在内的许多富裕国家，温室气体的排放已经开始小幅下降，但中国和印度这样正在崛起的经济大国所排放的温室气体，大大超出了富国减少的排放。
For the world’s poorer countries, food is not the only issue, but it may be the most acute. Several times in recent years, climatic disruptions in major growing regions have helped to throw supply and demand out of balance, contributing to price increases that have reversed decades of gains against global hunger, at least temporarily.
对于较为贫困的国家，粮食并不是唯一的问题，但可能是最为严峻的问题。近年来已经有很多次，气候对主要产粮区造成干扰后，致使粮食供需失衡，进而促使粮食价格提高，这些事件至少暂时逆转了数十年来全球对抗饥饿的成就。
The warning about the food supply in the new report is much sharper in tone than any previously issued by the panel. That reflects a growing body of research about how sensitive many crops are to heat waves and water stress.
这份新报告中对粮食供应提出的警告，措辞比该委员会过去发布的任何报告都更加尖锐。这反映出，有越来越多的研究揭示出，许多农作物对热浪和水资源压力十分敏感。
David B. Lobell, a Stanford University scientist who has published much of that research and helped write the new report, said in an interview that as yet, too little work was being done to understand the risk, much less counter it with improved crop varieties and farming techniques.
斯坦福大学(Stanford University)科学家戴维·B·洛贝尔(David B. Lobell)对这一研究课题发表过多篇文章，他也参与了新报告的撰写。洛贝尔在接受采访时说，目前人们为理解这种风险所做的研究太少，更不用说如何通过改良作物种类、改善农业技术来应对这种风险了。