MANILA — The Philippines will become the first country to enforce tough new United Nations sanctions on North Korea when it initiates formal procedures on Monday to impound a cargo vessel linked to the reclusive nation, a government spokesman said on Sunday.
马尼拉——自联合国通过对朝鲜采取新制裁的决议后，菲律宾将成为第一个付诸实施的国家。其政府发言人在周日表示，该国将于周一启动正式程序，扣押一艘与这个孤立的国家有关的货船。
The Jin Teng, which is suspected of being a North Korean ship, arrived Thursday at Subic Bay, a commercial port about 50 miles northwest of Manila. It will be impounded, its crew will be deported and it will most likely be inspected by a team from the United Nations, said Charles Jose, a spokesman for the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs.
一艘名为金腾号(Jin Teng)的货船于周四抵达位于马尼拉北部50英里处的商业港口苏比克湾。菲律宾外交部发言人查尔斯·何塞(Charles Jose)表示，这艘疑似朝鲜货船的船只将被扣押，船员将被驱逐出境，联合国小组可能会对其进行检查。
The vessel is registered and flagged under multiple countries, but it is one of 31 listed as being owned by North Korea, Philippine officials said, and therefore subject to seizure under the new sanctions. The sanctions are the result of a United Nations Security Council resolution that was passed Wednesday after a North Korean nuclear test on Jan. 6 and a long-range rocket test on Feb. 7.
菲律宾官员表示，该货船在多个国家注册，悬挂多国旗帜，但属于被列入黑名单的31艘朝鲜船只之一，因此根据新制裁举措，应该受到扣押。在朝鲜于1月6日进行核试验并在2月7日发射远程火箭之后，联合国安理会于周三通过决议进行制裁。
One component of the new sanctions requires countries to inspect all cargo passing through their territory to or from North Korea. Inspections previously had been required only if there was reasonable suspicion of contraband aboard.
新制裁的内容之一就是要求各个国家检查所有经由本国进出朝鲜的货船。以前只要求在合理怀疑船上载有违禁品的情况下进行检查。
“The world is concerned over North Korea’s nuclear weapons program, and as a member of the U.N., the Philippines has to do its part to enforce the sanctions,” Manuel L. Quezon III, a member of the president’s communications team, said on a government-run radio station on Saturday.
周六，菲律宾总统联络小组成员曼努埃尔·L·奎松三世(Manuel L. Quezon III)通过政府运营的电台表示，“世界对朝鲜的核武器项目感到担忧，作为联合国的成员，菲律宾必须尽职尽责，实施制裁。”
The 4,355-ton vessel had a crew of 21 North Korean citizens and was in the Philippines to unload a shipment of agricultural byproducts often used as livestock feed. The Philippine Coast Guard searched the vessel on Friday and found no prohibited items. Only minor safety violations, including missing fire hoses and exposed wiring, were discovered.
这艘4355吨的货船上有21名朝鲜公民，当时正在菲律宾卸载货物——常被用于家畜饲料的农副产品。菲律宾海岸警卫队(The Philippine Coast Guard)于周五搜查了该货船，没有发现违禁物品，只发现了轻微违反安全条例的情况，比如缺少消防水带和电线暴露在外。
The vessel’s last port of call was in Indonesia, and it was proceeding onto Zhanjiang Port in China after unloading in Subic Bay, Philippine Coast Guard officials said Saturday. It was not scheduled to pick up any cargo in the Philippines.
菲律宾海岸警卫队官员表示，该货船上一次靠港是在印度尼西亚，原本计划在苏比克湾卸完货后前往中国湛江港。该货船没有在菲律宾装载货物的计划。