One in three human trafficking victims is a child, most victims are female, and traffickers operate with wide impunity, the United Nations said on Monday in a report on modern-day slavery.
联合国于周一公布了有关现代奴隶问题的报告，报告称人口贩卖受害者中有三分之一是儿童，大多数受害者为女性。
The 2014 Global Report on Trafficking in Persons, produced by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, also found that the proportion of children among victims appeared to be rising. Its first report, in 2012, said the proportion had been closer to one in four.
联合国毒品和犯罪问题办公室(United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime)发布的2014年全球人口贩卖报告(2014 Global Report on Trafficking in Persons)还指出，儿童所占比例似乎有所上升。该机构于2012年发布的首份报告称，儿童所占比例接近四分之一。
In some regions, like Africa and the Middle East, the new report said, two out of three victims are children.
新报告称，在非洲、中东等地区，三分之二的受害者为儿童。
The office, based in Vienna, was authorized by the General Assembly in 2010 to collect information and publish a global report on trafficking every two years.
2010年，联合国大会(General Assembly)授权总部位于维也纳的毒品和犯罪问题办公室收集信息，每两年就人口贩卖问题发布全球报告。
Other indicators in the 2014 report pointed to growth in the buying and selling of humans despite laws passed in an increasing number of countries to toughen penalties.
2014年报告的其他指标说明，尽管越来越多的国家制定法律，加大处罚力度，买卖人口的问题仍不断加剧。
The report was issued against the backdrop of resilient rage over child trafficking, fueled by the mass abduction of more than 200 Nigerian schoolgirls seven months ago by Islamist militants, who brazenly declared they had sold the girls as slaves and brides in forced marriages.
发布该报告的背景是，贩卖儿童的问题引起了极大民愤，伊斯兰武装分子七个月前集体绑架200多名尼日利亚女童的举动加剧了愤怒情绪。武装分子厚颜无耻地宣称，他们已将女童当做奴隶和包办婚姻的新娘出售。
While sexual exploitation remains the predominant reason for trafficking, victims are also increasingly being used for forced labor, the United Nations report said.
联合国的报告指出，虽然性剥削仍然是推动人口贩卖的主要原因，受害者也越来越多地遭到强迫劳动。
Other statistics in the report showed that girls account for two out of every three child victims, and that together with adult women, account for 70 percent of all trafficking victims.
报告中的其他数据显示，三分之二的儿童受害者为女童，女童与成年女性在人口贩卖受害者中所占的比例为70%。
The report found that trafficking was a problem all over the world, with at least 152 countries of origin and 124 countries of destination. More than 6 in 10 victims have been transported across at least one national border, it said.
该报告发现，世界各地都存在人口贩卖问题，至少有152个国家是人口贩卖的来源地，124个国家为目的地。该报告称，逾五分之三的受害者在运送的过程中至少穿越了一条国家边境线。
“Unfortunately, the report shows there is no place in the world where children, women and men are safe from human trafficking,” Yury Fedotov, the executive director of the Office on Drugs and Crime, said in a statement announcing the report’s release.
毒品和犯罪问题办公室执行主任尤里·费多托夫(Yury Fedotov)就该报告的发布发表声明，他表示，“不幸的是，该报告指出，世界上没有哪个地方的儿童、女性和男性会免遭贩卖。”
He also cautioned that the report was based only on known cases, while trafficking operates in the shadows. “It is very clear that the scale of modern-day slavery is far worse” than the statistics in the report, he said.
他还警告称，该办公室根据已知案例编写了报告，而人贩子通常在地下活动。他表示，“很明显，现代奴隶问题的严重程度远大于”报告中提到的数据。
Even though traffickers do not conduct their business openly, the report said, they have little fear of prosecution because many countries do not enforce their laws. Forty percent of the world’s countries have recorded few or no convictions.
该报告称，虽然人贩子没有公开进行交易，但他们不担心遭到起诉，因为很多国家没有执行相关法律。世界上40%的国家很少或没有对这种行为定罪。