TOKYO — The decision to ban Japan’s annual whaling drive off Antarctica, handed down by the United Nations’ highest court on Monday, is a hard-won victory for conservationists who have long argued that Tokyo’s whaling research is a cover for commercial whaling.
东京——联合国最高法院周一做出裁决，禁止日本在南极洲附近进行年度捕鲸活动。对于那些长期以来声称，日本政府打着捕鲸研究的幌子来进行商业捕鲸活动的环保人士来说，这项禁令是一个来之不易的胜利。
The ruling by the International Court of Justice in The Hague halts a Japanese program that has captured hundreds of minke and other whales each year in the Southern Ocean since 2005, all in the name of biological research.
海牙的联合国国际法院(International Court of Justice)做出的这裁决将暂停一项日本的捕鲸计划。自从2005年以来，该项目每年在南大洋捕捉数以百计的小须鲸等各类鲸鱼，全都打着生物学研究的旗号。
But Japan may not be ready to lay down its harpoons entirely. Though the ruling is final, it allows the Japanese to continue to hunt whales under a redesigned program, warned Nanami Kurasawa, who heads a marine conservation group in Tokyo.
但日本或许还没有准备好完全放下自己的鱼叉。负责东京一家海洋保护组织的仓沢七海(Nanami Kurasawa)警告说，虽然这一裁决是最终决定，但它还是允许日本重新设计一项计划，来继续捕鲸。
And the court’s decision does not affect smaller hunts that Japan carries out in the northern Pacific, or coastal whaling carried out on a smaller scale by local fishermen.
并且这项法庭裁决也不会影响日本在北太平洋开展的捕鲸活动，以及本地渔民的近海捕鲸，这些活动的规模都相对较小。
“It’s an important decision, but it also leaves the Japanese government a lot of leeway,” Ms. Kurasawa said. “The Japanese government could start research whaling again but under a different name, and it would be out of the ruling’s purview.”
“这是一项重要的决定，但它还是给日本政府留了很大的回旋余地，”仓沢七海说，“日本政府可以换一个名字，再次开始捕鲸研究，这将超出此项裁决的管辖范围。”
In a 12-to-4 judgment, the court found that Japan was in breach of its international obligations by catching and killing minke whales and issuing permits for hunting humpback and fin whales within the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary, established by the International Whaling Commission.
国际法庭以12票支持、4票反对通过了这项裁决。根据这项裁决，日本捕杀小须鲸，并发放在南大洋鲸鱼保护区(Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary)内捕猎座头鲸和长须鲸的许可，违反了国际义务。该保护区由国际捕鲸委员会(International Whaling Commission)划定。
Reading a summary of the judgment, presiding Judge Peter Tomka of Slovakia said that the present “research program,” dating to 2005, has involved the killing of 3,600 minke whales and a number of fin whales, but that its “scientific output to date appears limited.” The ruling suggested instead that Japan’s whaling hunt served political and economic reasons.
来自斯洛伐克的主审法官彼得·托姆卡(Peter Tomka)宣读了裁决摘要。他说，当前的“研究项目”始于2005年，期间捕杀了3600头小须鲸，以及一定数量的长须鲸，但它“迄今为止的科研成果却相当有限”。裁决转而指出，日本的捕鲸活动带有政治和经济目的。
Lawyers attending the proceedings said there was a gasp in the audience when Judge Tomka ordered Japan to immediately “revoke all whaling permits” and not issue any new ones under the existing program.
出席宣判的律师表示，当托姆卡法官要求日本立即“收回所有捕鲸许可”，并在现行项目中不再发放任何新的许可时，旁听席上的人们倒吸了一口气。
“I rarely heard such an unequivocal, strong ruling at this court,” said a lawyer with long experience at the court who asked not to be named because he is working on a case in progress.
“在这家法院里，我很少会听到这样措辞明确、强有力的裁决，”一位长期与国际法院打交道的律师说。由于他正在处理一件尚未审结的案件，要求不具名。
A Japanese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Noriyuki Shikata, was quoted by media as telling reporters in The Hague that the country “regrets and is deeply disappointed” by the decision.
有媒体引用日本外务省新闻发言人四方敬之(Noriyuki Shikata)在海牙接受的采访说，日本对这一裁决表示“遗憾和深深的失望”。
But “as a state that respects the rule of law ... and as a responsible member of the global community, Japan will abide by the ruling of the court,” he was quoted as saying.
但是“作为一个尊重法治的国家……作为国际社会负责任的一员，日本将恪守法庭的这项裁决，”媒体援引他的话说。
The ruling drew immediate praise from environmental groups, including the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, which has sent ships to the remote and icy waters to block and harass Japan’s whaling fleet.
这项裁决立即引起了海洋守护者协会(Sea Shepherd Conservation Society)等环保组织的赞扬。海洋守护者协会曾派船赶赴那片遥远、冰封的水域，阻止和干扰日本的捕鲸船队。
“We are very happy with the backing of the International Court,” Geert Vons, a representative of Sea Shepherd, said after leaving the courtroom. “We had never expected such a strong ruling.”
“我们对于国际法院的支持感到非常欣慰，”海洋守护者协会的代表黑尔特·冯斯(Geert Vons)在走出法庭后说。“我们从没料想到会有这样一份强有力的裁决。”
Australia, a former whaling country, brought the suit against Japan in 2010, accusing the country of using a loophole to get around a 1986 worldwide moratorium on commercial whaling.
曾经开展捕鲸活动的澳大利亚2010年将日本诉至国际法院，指责日本利用一个漏洞来绕过1986年通过的一项暂停世界范围内商业捕鲸活动的决定。
Since the moratorium, Japan has captured and killed around 15,000 whales, in what Tokyo says is an effort to collect data to monitor the impact of whales on Japan’s fishing industry and to study the health and habitat of the whale population.
自从这项暂停令生效起，日本已经捕杀了约1.5万头鲸鱼。日本政府称，这是为了收集数据，来监控鲸鱼对日本渔业的影响，也为了研究鲸群的健康状况和生活习惯。
To pay for the government program, the meat from the culled whales is sold and makes its way to supermarkets, restaurants and even school lunches.
为了负担这一政府项目的资金，捕杀鲸鱼的鱼肉被卖出，进入超市、餐厅，甚至学校的午餐盒。
Still, Japan’s whaling program has struggled to finance itself in recent years, as more Japanese consumers turn up their noses at whale meat and environmental activists that chase whaling boats have made hunts increasingly difficult. Hunts in recent years have relied on public subsidies, including money drawn from funds earmarked for Japan’s post-tsunami reconstruction.
但是近年来，随着越来越多的日本人开始拒绝鲸鱼肉，环保人士也积极追逐捕鲸船，使得捕鲸活动面临越来越大的障碍，日本的捕鲸项目也很难自给自足了。近年来的捕鲸活动依靠的是公共资金的补助，甚至使用了日本海啸后用于重建的专项拨款。
Experts have argued that Monday’s court decision presents Japan with an opportunity to bow out of a practice that has become a drain on Japanese finances, as well as a blow to its image abroad.
专家们认为，周一的法庭裁决为日本提供了一次机遇，来退出这样一项活动。捕鲸活动已经为日本带来巨大的财政压力，也令其海外形象倍受损害。
“This might be a good time to quit,” said Toshio Kasuya, a whale expert and early collaborator on Japan’s research program who has since become one of its harshest critics. From very early on, it became clear to researchers that the program did not prioritize scientific discovery, he said.
“这可能是一个退出的好时机，”鲸鱼专家粕谷俊雄(Toshio Kasuya)说。他是日本研究项目的早期合作者，但后来成了这一项目最严厉的批评者之一。他说，研究人员从一开始就意识到，这一项目的重点绝不是科研发现。
“The system is bankrupt,” Mr. Kasuya said.
“这一体系已经破产，”粕谷俊雄说。
Whaling is defended by some Japanese, however, who feel unfairly singled out by international criticism and who argue that the hunts are a time-honored Japanese tradition. These supporters make little pretense that whaling is carried out for science.
但是一些为捕鲸辩护的日本人称，国际社会针对捕鲸的这种批评态度有失公正，他们也认为，捕鲸是日本一项历史悠久的传统。这些支持者很少佯称捕鲸是为了科学目的而开展的。
“Some people eat beef, others eat whale. We should respect all cultures,” said Komei Wani, who leads the Group to Preserve Whale Dietary Culture, based in the whaling town of Shimonoseki. “As long as there are enough whales to go around, why can’t we hunt a few?”
“有人爱吃牛肉，有人爱吃鲸鱼肉。我们应该尊重所有的文化，”位于捕鲸之乡下关市的鲸鱼食文化保护协会(Group to Preserve Whale Dietary Culture)的负责人和仁皓明(Komei Wani)说。“只要还有足够多的鲸鱼，我们为什么就不能捕几头呢？”