BENTIU, South Sudan — Two weeks after a massacre here, the stench of dead bodies clung to the walls of the Kali-Ballee mosque. Bloodstains marked the ground; shirts, pants and sandals were still scattered about; and torn pages from the Quran were strewn all over the place.
南苏丹本提乌——在屠杀事件发生两周之后，卡立-巴里(Kali-Ballee)清真寺周围仍有一股尸体的恶臭味。地面上血迹斑斑，四处仍然散落着衬衫、裤子、凉鞋，被撕烂的《可兰经》(Quran) 也满地都是。
“If you saw what happened here, you would cry for the rest of your life,” said Ahmad Bushara al-Dai, 60, a Sudanese merchant who witnessed the attack on this town by rebel forces last month.
60岁的苏丹商人艾哈迈德·布沙拉·达伊(Ahmad Bushara al-Dai)表示，“如果你看到了这里发生的事情，你的余生会在哭泣中度过。”达伊上个月目睹了叛军袭击该城镇的过程。
“The first wave of soldiers took our money and cellphones; the second found nothing, so they started shooting,” he said. “The machine guns did not stop, and the mosque was flowing with blood.”
“第一波士兵抢走了我们的钱和手机，第二波士兵无所收获，他们就开始开枪，”他说。“机关枪一直不停射击，清真寺血流成河。”
On Thursday, United Nations investigators issued a report describing horrors committed “on a massive scale” by both sides in the civil war in South Sudan. Security forces went from house to house killing men belonging to certain ethnic groups, it said. Civilians have been killed seeking shelter at United Nations bases. Combatants from both sides have raped and assaulted women.
周四，联合国调查人员发布报告，阐述了南苏丹内战双方犯下的“大规模”恐怖罪行。报告称，安全部队挨家挨户搜查，杀害属于某些族群的男子。在联合国基地寻求庇护的平民也遭到杀害。双方的战斗人员都曾强奸、侵犯女性。
In the first major accounting of the violence in South Sudan, the United Nations documents crimes against humanity, including arbitrary killings and attacks on churches, hospitals and international aid facilities.
在有关南苏丹暴行的首个重要报告中，联合国记录了各种反人类罪行，包括对民众的肆意杀戮，以及对教堂、医院、国际援助设施的袭击。
“Civilians were not only caught up in the violence, they were directly targeted, often along ethnic lines,” the report states.
报告称，“平民不仅被卷入暴行，而且直接成为了攻击目标，通常根据所属族群受到区别对待。”
South Sudanese government officials could not be reached for comment.
记者无法联系到南苏丹政府官员对此事置评。
The report is likely to boost calls for sanctions, which the United States began this week with a freezing of assets and travel bans on two people, one from each side of the conflict.
该报告可能引发制裁的呼声，美国本周开始采取制裁举措，冻结了来自冲突双方的两名人员的资产，并对他们发布了旅行禁令。
But it also underscores the difficulties facing the United Nations mission here. From the start, it has tried to support the fledgling nation. Now that the government is a party to a gruesome conflict, the Security Council is considering a change to its mandate so that it functions in a neutral capacity, with the principal goal of protecting civilians.
但这份报告也突显了联合国机构在当地面临的困难。起初，联合国设法支援这个新生国家。现在，由于南苏丹政府已经参与了这场可怕的冲突，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)正在考虑更改命令，以中立的身份发挥作用，主要目标是保护平民。
Civil war has engulfed South Sudan since December, when clashes erupted between soldiers loyal to President Salva Kiir and those loyal to his former vice president, Riek Machar. The conflict soon took on an ethnic dimension between South Sudan’s two largest groups, the Dinka and the Nuer. Mr. Kiir is a Dinka, while Mr. Machar is a Nuer.
去年12月，效忠于南苏丹总统萨尔瓦·基尔(Salva Kiir)的士兵与效忠于前副总统里克·马沙尔(Riek Machar)的士兵爆发冲突，南苏丹自此陷入内战。冲突很快展露出了种族色彩，成了南苏丹两大民族丁卡族(Dinka)和努尔族(Nuer)之间的冲突。吉尔是丁卡人，马沙尔是努尔人。
Thousands of people have been killed; more than a million have been displaced; and the United Nations has warned that famine threatens much of the country.
数以千计的民众被杀害，逾100万人流离失所，联合国已发出警告，南苏丹大部分地区都面临饥荒威胁。
The peacekeeping mission’s report, based on interviews with more than 900 victims and witnesses, said that “from the very outset of the violence, gross violations of human rights and serious violations of humanitarian law have occurred on a massive scale.”
维和机构根据对900多名受害者和目击者进行的采访编写了报告，报告称，“从暴力活动伊始，严重侵犯人权、违背人道主义法的行为大规模地展开。”
But the recent scale of violence, especially here in Bentiu, prompted one United Nations official to call it a “game changer.”
但最近的暴力活动，特别是本提乌的暴力活动的规模促使一名联合国官员称之为“大转折”。
“I never thought the day would come when people would flee to Darfur,” said Toby Lanzer, the United Nations official in charge of coordinating the relief effort in South Sudan.
负责在南苏丹协调救援行动的联合国官员托比·兰泽尔(Toby Lanzer)说，“我从未想过，人们有朝一日会逃往达尔富尔。”
Last month, hundreds of civilians were killed when rebel forces took control of Bentiu, the capital of the oil-rich Unity State. Rebel forces, according to residents and the United Nations, separated groups of residents — who had sought refuge in churches, mosques and hospitals — by their ethnicity and nationality. Members of the ethnic Nuer group who did not support the rebels, along with South Sudanese people from other ethnic groups and nationalities, were targeted and killed.
上个月，当叛军控制石油储量丰富的联合州的首府本提乌时，数以百计的平民遇难。据当地居民和联合国透露，叛军根据所属种族与民族，将在教堂、清真寺及医院寻求庇护的居民分为不同的群体。不支持叛军的努尔族成员，以及属于其他族群的南苏丹人都被当作目标，遭到杀害。
“The soldiers entered my house and asked, ‘Are you Dinka?’ ” said Naynatong Mamjok, 35, a mother of four. “When I said ‘yes,’ a soldier said ‘leave.’ ” She said she ran with her children to the nearby United Nations base, but her husband was not as fortunate: He was shot outside.
“士兵走入我家，问道，‘你是丁卡人吗？’”35岁的奈纳通·迈姆朱克(Naynatong Mamjok)说。“当我说‘是’的时候，一名士兵让我‘出去’。”迈姆朱克有四个孩子。她说，她与孩子跑到了附近的联合国基地，但他的丈夫就没那么幸运了：他在屋外被射杀。
James Kuan Chol, a Nuer commander with the rebel forces that took control of Bentiu, dismissed accusations that groups were targeted based on their ethnicity.
占领本提乌的叛军的努尔族指挥官詹姆斯·库安·舒勒(James Kuan Chol)并不理会相关指控，即某些族群被当作攻击目标。
“The U.N. is biased,” he said. “They did not talk about what happened to the Nuer in Malakal,” a city east of Bentiu along the White Nile River. “My problem is that my people have been killed,” he said.
“联合国有些偏颇，”他说。“他们闭口不谈努尔人在马拉卡尔的遭遇。”马拉卡尔位于白尼罗河畔，本提乌以东。“我们很多人遇害了，我很有意见，”他说。
The cycle of revenge killings that started in Juba and continued in Bentiu has brought greater international pressure on both sides of the conflict. Slow-moving negotiations have moved up a gear, with both sides scheduled to meet Friday in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa.
这轮冤冤相报始于久巴，并蔓延到了本提乌，给冲突双方均带来了更大的国际压力。缓慢的谈判进程加快了一点节奏，双方定于周五在埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴会面。