UNITED NATIONS — The evidence is ubiquitous. The gang rape of a young woman on a bus in New Delhi sets off an unusual burst of national outrage in India. American colleges face mounting scrutiny about campus rape. In South Sudan, women are assaulted by both sides in the civil war. In Iraq, jihadists enslave women for sex.
联合国——这种情况随处可见。一名年轻女子在新德里一辆公交车上遭轮奸在印度引发了不同寻常的全国愤怒爆发。美国大学面临有关校园强奸的越来越多的审查。在南苏丹，妇女遭到内战双方的侵犯。在伊拉克，圣战者强迫妇女当性奴。
Despite the many gains women have made in education, health and even political power in the course of a generation, violence against women and girls worldwide “persists at alarmingly high levels,” according to a United Nations analysis that the Secretary General Ban Ki-moon is scheduled to present to the General Assembly on Monday.
尽管妇女在一代人的进程中在教育、健康、甚至政治权力上的取得了许多改善，但据秘书长潘基文周一提交给联合国大会的一项分析报告，全世界针对妇女和女童的暴力“仍持续在惊人的高水平上”。
About 35 percent of women worldwide — more than one in three — said they had experienced violence in their lifetime, whether physical, sexual, or both, the report finds. One in 10 girls under the age of 18 was forced to have sex, it says.
报告发现，全球约35％(超过三分之一)的女性说，自己有生以来经历过暴力，有的是身体暴力，还有的是性暴力，或两者兼而有之。报告说，10%的18岁以下女孩被强迫与他人发生过性关系。
The subject is under sharp focus as delegates from around the world gather here starting on Monday to assess how well governments have done since they promised to ensure women’s equality at a landmark conference in Beijing 20 years ago — and what to do next.
随着来自世界各地的代表周一聚集这里，开始评估各国政府在兑现他们20年前在北京的一次具有里程碑意义的会议上所做的确保妇女平等的承诺上做得如何、以及下一步该怎么做，这个问题成为大家关注的焦点。
Hillary Rodham Clinton, who attended ​the Beijing conference in 1995, is scheduled to speak on Tuesday.
希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)出席了1995年的北京世界妇女大会，她预定将于周二在这里发表讲话。
Since the Beijing conference, there has been measurable, though mixed, progress on many fronts, according to the United Nations analysis.
据联合国的分析，自从北京会议以来，在许多方面取得了可衡量的、但程度不一的进展。
As many girls as boys are now enrolled in primary school, a sharp advance since 1995. Maternal mortality rates have fallen by half. And women are more likely to be in the labor force, though the pay gap is closing so slowly that it will take another 75 years before women and men are paid equally for equal work.
目前在小学就读的女孩人数与男孩人数相同，这是1995年以来的一大进步。孕产妇死亡率下降了一半。女性参加工作的可能性更大了，虽然工资差距在缩小，但速度非常之慢，如此下去，将需要再有75年，才能实现男女同工同酬。
The share of women serving in legislatures has nearly doubled, too, though women still account for only one in five legislators. All but 32 countries have adopted laws that guarantee gender equality in their constitutions.
在立法机构担任职务的妇女人数也几乎翻了一番，虽然女性仍只占立法者的五分之一。除了32个国家，其他所有国家都在其宪法中引入了保障性别平等的条款。
But violence against women — including rape, murder and sexual harassment — remains stubbornly high in countries rich and poor, at war and at peace. The United Nations’ main health agency, the World Health Organization, found that 38 percent of women who are murdered are killed by their partners.
但是，针对妇女的暴力行为——包括强奸、谋杀和性骚扰——仍居高不下，不论是在富国还是在穷国，也不论是在战争环境或和平环境中。联合国的主要健康机构世界卫生组织发现，38％的被谋杀女性是被其伴侣杀害的。
Even as women’s groups continue to push for laws that criminalize violence — marital rape is still permitted in many countries — new types of attacks have emerged, some of them online, including rape threats on Twitter.
尽管妇女团体继续推动将暴力行为定为犯罪的法律，在许多国家仍允许婚内强奸，而且新的侵犯类型不断涌现，有的是在网上，包括在Twitter上发出强奸的威胁。
Where there are laws on the books, like ones that criminalize domestic violence, for instance, they are not reliably enforced.
虽然制定了一些法律，比如将家庭暴力定为刑事犯罪，但这些法律并没有得到可靠的执行。
The economic impact is huge. One recent study found that domestic violence against women and children alone costs the global economy $4 trillion.
对经济的影响是巨大的。最近的一项研究发现，仅是针对妇女和儿童的家庭暴力这一项，就给全球经济造成了四万亿美元(相当于25万亿元人民币)的代价。
“Over all, as you look at the world, there have been no large victories in eradicating violence against women,” said Valerie M. Hudson, a professor of politics at Texas A & M University who has developed world maps that chart the status of women. The vast majority of countries, by her metrics, do not have laws that protect women’s physical safety.
得克萨斯州农工大学(Texas A & M University)政治学教授瓦莱丽·M·哈德逊(Valerie M. Hudson)说，“总的来看，在世界范围内，在消除针对女性的暴力行为上，没有大的胜利。”哈德逊制作了跟踪全球妇女地位的世界地图，从她的指标来看，绝大多数国家没有保护妇女人身安全的法律。
In some cases, the laws on the books are the problem, women’s rights advocates say. In some countries, like Nigeria, the law permits a man to beat his wife under certain circumstances. But even when laws are technically adequate, victims often do not feel comfortable going to law enforcement, or they are unable to pay the bribes required to file a police report.
妇女权利倡导者说，在某些情况下，法律的本身有问题。在一些国家，比如尼日利亚，法律允许男人在某些情况下殴打妻子。但是，即使原则上有足够的法律，但受害人常常不能无忧无虑地寻求法律保护，或者他们不能支付报警所需的贿赂。
Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, the executive director of the United Nations agency for gender equity and women’s empowerment — known as UN Women — said that for the laws to mean anything, governments around the world have to persuade their police officers, judges and medical personnel to take violence against women seriously.
联合国促进性别平等和增加妇女权能署（联合国妇女署）的执行主任普姆齐莱∙姆兰博－恩格库卡(Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka)说，为了让法律有实效，世界各国政府必须让该国的警察、法官和医务人员认识到侵害妇女行为的严重性。
“I am disappointed, I have to be honest,” she said about the stubborn hold of violence against women. “More than asking for more laws to be passed, I’m asking for implementation.”
提到针对女性的暴力行为持续不断时，她说，“我很失望，我必须说实话。比要求制定更多的法律更重要的是，我要求看到法律的实施。”
According to Equality Now, an advocacy group that tracks laws pertaining to women, 125 countries specifically criminalize domestic violence. But so-called wife-obedience laws still remain in some places. In some others, rapists can get off the hook by marrying those they assault.
据跟踪有关妇女立法的倡导组织“现在就平等”(Equality Now)，125个国家有将家庭暴力定为犯罪的具体法律。但是，所谓的妻子顺从法仍保留在一些地方的法律中。在某些地区，强奸犯可以通过娶遭受他们侵犯的人而逃避惩罚。
Yasmeen Hassan, the group’s executive director, said that governments need to be reminded that they committed to making their laws fair for women. Cultural differences cannot be an excuse, she said. “It’s always a cop-out for governments to not do what they signed up to do,” she said.
该组织的执行主任雅思敏∙哈桑(Yasmeen Hassan)说，有必要提醒各国政府，他们曾承诺为女性制定公平的法律。她说不能以文化不同为借口。她说，“文化不同一直是政府不兑现他们所做承诺的站不住脚的借口。”
The new round of global development targets that governments around the world will have to agree to later this year, known as Sustainable Development Goals, includes a separate requirement for women’s equal rights, including how they protect their female citizens from violence.
世界各国政府在今年晚些时候将对新一轮的全球发展目标、也就是“可持续发展目标”达成共识，目标中有对妇女平等权利的单独要求，包括政府如何保护其女性公民不受暴力侵犯。
The latest United Nations report draws attention to the rise of “extremism and conservatism,” and without naming any countries or groups, it argues that what they share is a “resistance to women’s human rights.” The assaults and abductions by the Islamic State have brought new urgency to the issue. ​
联合国的最新报告提请人们注意“极端主义和保守主义”的上升，但没有点任何国家或组织的名字，报告认为这些现象的共享特征是“抵制妇女的人权”。伊斯兰国的袭击和绑架给这个问题带来了新的紧迫感。
Ms. Hudson, the academic, said the persistence of violence in so many forms is in part because it can establish domination against women of all kinds, for a broad range of personal and political purposes. A husband can just as easily beat his wife if she is a high school dropout or a college graduate. An entire territory can be claimed if fighters rape the local women — or take them as sex slaves, as is the case of the Islamic State.
从事学术研究的哈德逊说，多种形式的暴力之所以能持续，是因为，出于一个大范围的个人及政治目的，暴力能建立针对各种女性的统治。不管妻子是高中辍学生、还是大学毕业生，丈夫都可以很轻而易举地打妻子。如果武装分子强奸当地妇女、或迫使她们充当性奴，他们就可以声称占领了整片领土，正如伊斯兰国所做的那样。
“I think violence against women is so darn useful,” she said. “That’s why it’ll be so hard to eradicate.”
哈德逊说，“我觉得，针对妇女的暴力有这么糟糕的用途，这就是为什么这种暴力很难根除的原因。”
Violence can start before birth. Sex-selective abortions, have been reduced in some countries, as in South Korea, but are higher than ever in other places, like India, and are going up sharply in places like Armenia.
这种暴力能在出生之前就发生。性别选择性堕胎虽然在有些国家、比如韩国已有所降低，但在其他地方、比如印度却比以往任何时候都高，而在像亚美尼亚这样的地方正在大幅上升。
Harassment is commonplace. In the United States, 83 percent of girls aged 12 to 16 said they had experienced some form of harassment in public schools. In New Delhi, a 2010 study found that two out of three women said they were harassed more than twice in the last year alone.
骚扰则是家常便饭。在美国，12岁至16岁女孩中有83％表示，她们曾在公立学校里经历过某种形式的骚扰。2010年的一项研究发现，在新德里，有三分之二的女性表示，她们仅在过去年的一年中，就受到过两次以上的骚扰。
Violence against women is often unreported. For instance, a study conducted in the 28 countries of the European Union found that only 14 percent of women reported their most serious episode of domestic violence to the police.
针对妇女的暴力往往没有报案。比如，在欧盟28个国家进行的一项研究发现，只有14％的女性将她们所经历的最严重的家庭暴力向警方报了案。
​”​Violence against women has epidemic proportions, and is present in every single country around the world,” said Lydia Alpizar, executive director of the Association for Women’s Rights in Development, a global feminist group. “​Yet it is still not a real priority for most governments.” ​
“针对女性的暴力已经上升到流行病的程度，而且世界上每个国家都有这个问题，”全球女权组织“妇女权利发展协会”(Association for Women’s Rights in Development)执行主任丽迪雅∙阿尔皮扎尔(Lydia Alpizar)说。“然而，这对大多数政府来说仍不是真正的首要问题。”