Nations have so dragged their feet in battling climate change that the situation has grown critical and the risk of severe economic disruption is rising, according to a draft United Nations report. Another 15 years of failure to limit carbon emissions could make the problem virtually impossible to solve with current technologies, experts found.
联合国一份报告的草稿中写道，各国在应对气候变化上脚步极其迟缓，导致情况危急，而且严重干扰经济的风险也在不断加大。专家们得出的结论是，倘若未来15年在限制碳排放上继续遭遇失败，想要用现有的技术解决问题，几乎就不可能了。
A delay would most likely force future generations to develop the ability to suck greenhouse gases out of the atmosphere and store them underground to preserve the livability of the planet, the report found. But it is not clear whether such technologies will ever exist at the necessary scale, and even if they do, the approach would probably be wildly expensive compared with taking steps now to slow emissions.
报告认为，如果拖延，就极有可能迫使未来数代人，为了让地球继续适宜居住，而开发出从大气中捕集温室气体并封存到地下的能力。然而，尚不清楚此类技术能否达到所需的规模。而且，就算可以，比起现在采取措施来减缓排放，这种方法也很可能成本高得惊人。
The report said that governments of the world were still spending far more money to subsidize fossil fuels than to accelerate the shift to cleaner energy, thus encouraging continued investment in projects like coal-burning power plants that pose a long-term climate risk.
文中称，各国政府花在补贴化石燃料上的钱，仍然远远高于对加速向清洁能源转变的投入，从而鼓励了在煤电厂等项目上的持续投资，而这些项目存在长期的气候风险。
While the spread of technologies like solar power and wind farms might give the impression of progress, the report said, such developments are being overtaken by rising emissions from fossil fuels over the past decade, especially in fast-growing countries like China. And one of the most important sources of low-carbon energy, nuclear power, is actually declining over time as a percentage of the global energy mix, the report said.
尽管太阳能和风电场等技术的普及，或许能让人产生取得进步的印象，但报告中写道，这样的发展因为过去10年间化石燃料排放的不断增加而黯然失色，尤其是来自中国等高速发展国家的排放。报告称，核能作为最重要的低碳能源之一，在全球能源构成中所占的份额实际上还在不断下滑。
Unless far greater efforts are made to reduce emissions, “the fundamental drivers of emissions growth are expected to persist despite major improvements in energy supply” and in the efficiency with which energy is used, the report said.
文中写道，“尽管在能源供应”及能效上取得了“重大进步”，但除非采取有力得多的行动来减少排放，否则“排放增长的基本驱动因素预计将持续存在”。
The new warnings come in a draft report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a United Nations panel of climate experts that won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2007 for its efforts to analyze and communicate the risks of climate change. The report is not final, but a draft dated Dec. 17 was leaked this week and was first reported by Reuters. The New York Times obtained a copy independently.
上述新警告来自政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）的报告草案。这个由气候专家组成的委员会隶属于联合国，因其分析并传播气候变化风险的种种努力而获得了2007年的诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)。报告尚未最后定稿，不过日期标为去年12月17日的草稿于本周流出，并由路透社(Reuters)首先报道。《纽约时报》独立取得了一份草稿。
Business leaders will tackle many of the problems raised in the draft next week, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, where a day will be devoted to addressing the rising economic costs of climate change — and the costs to businesses and governments of solving the problem.
下周在瑞士达沃斯举行的世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)上，商界领袖将会回应文中提出的诸多问题。会上将用一天时间专门讨论气候变化所产生的不断提高的经济成本，以及要想解决这一问题，商界和政府需要付出的代价。
Within the business community, “there is an awakening of increasing economic risk — a recognition that operating conditions are changing and we need to respond,” said Dominic Waughray, head of environmental initiatives for the forum. “There has been a failure of government to address these solutions. If there is an alliance of companies that can bite off pieces of the puzzle, it might help.”
论坛的环境行动主管多米尼克·沃雷(Dominic Waughray)表示，商界对“日益提高的经济风险产生了觉醒，意识到经营环境在变化，而我们需要加以应对。政府一直没能成功地回应。如果说，企业能联合起来各自解决一点问题，就会有所帮助。”
In the dry language of a technical committee, the draft outlines an increasingly dire situation.
报告由一个技术委员会起草，以平实的语言，勾勒出了一副日益灰暗的景象。
Even as the early effects of climate change are starting to be felt around the world, the panel concluded that efforts are lagging not only in reducing emissions, but in adapting to the climatic changes that have become inevitable.
尽管世界各地都感受到了气候变化的早期影响，但IPCC的报告认为，人们不仅在减少排放上行动迟缓，在适应已经不可避免的气候变化上也是如此。
It is true, the report found, that the political willingness to tackle climate change is growing in many countries and new policies are spreading, but the report said these were essentially being outrun by the rapid growth of fossil fuels.
文中称，诚然，许多国家应对气候变化的政治意愿在不断加强，新政策也正得到普及，但这些措施实际上赶不上化石燃料的快速增长。
While emissions appear to have fallen in recent years in some of the wealthiest countries, that is somewhat of an illusion, the report found. The growth of international trade means many of the goods consumed in wealthy countries are now made abroad — so that those countries have, in effect, outsourced their greenhouse gas emissions to countries like China.
报告表示，尽管一些最富裕的国家近年来的排放看似下降了，但这其实是一种错觉。国际贸易的增长意味着，发达国家消费的许多商品如今是在海外制造的，因此，这些国家实际上是把自身的温室气体排放转移到了中国等地方。
Emissions in the United States rose slightly in 2013, but are still about 10 percent below their 2005 levels, largely because of the newfound abundance of natural gas, which produces less greenhouse gases than burning coal.
美国2013年的排放略有上升，但仍比2005年的水平低10%左右。这大部分要归功于新近发现的丰富的天然气储量。相比煤炭，天然气的温室气体排放较少。
The Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty meant to limit emissions, has “not been as successful as intended,” the report found. That is partly because some important countries like the United States refused to ratify it or later withdrew, but also because of flaws within the treaty itself, the report found. The treaty exempted developing countries from taking strong action, for instance, a decision that many experts now say was a mistake.
报告还认为，旨在控制排放的国际条约《京都议定书》(Kyoto Protocol)“未能取得期望的成功”。部分原因在于，包括美国在内的一些重要国家，要么是拒绝批准议定书，要么是后来退出。不过，文中称，条约本身的缺陷也是根源所在。比方说，议定书免除了发展中国家采取强力措施的责任。许多专家如今声称，这一决策是个错误。
Efforts are underway to negotiate a new international treaty to replace Kyoto, but it is not even supposed to take effect until 2020, and it is unclear whether countries will agree on ambitious goals to limit emissions. It is equally unclear how much political support a new treaty will gain in China and the United States, the world’s largest emitters.
各方正努力谈判，以期达成新的国际条约来取代《京都议定书》。然而，即使是按照设想的时间表，新条约都要到2020年才会生效，而且，尚不清楚各国是否能就限制排放的宏大目标达成一致。同样不明朗的是，新条约能在中国和美国赢得多少政治支持。中国和美国是世界上排在前两位的排放国。
Nations have agreed to try to limit the warming of the planet to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit above preindustrial levels. Even though it will be exceedingly difficult to meet, this target would still mean vast ecological and economic damage, experts have found. But the hope is that these would come on slowly enough to be somewhat manageable; having no target would be to risk catastrophic disruption, the thinking goes.
各国已达成共识，努力将地球的升温幅度控制在比前工业水平高2摄氏度的范围内。专家们认为，尽管这一目标已然极难达成，但它仍然意味着会造成巨大的生态与经济损失。可是，人们希望这些损失发生的速度足够慢，从而让人们多少可以应付。这种想法还认为，如果没有目标，就可能会遭受灾难性的损害。
As scientists can best figure, the target requires that atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, the main greenhouse gas, stay below 500 parts per million. The level recently surpassed 400, and at present growth rates will surpass 500 within a few decades.
目前最精确的科学估算是，要想达成这一目标，大气中的主要温室气体二氧化碳的浓度必须控制在500ppm以下。该浓度近期超过了400，如果按照目前的速率增长，将于几十年内突破500。
If countries permit continued high emissions growth until 2030, the draft report found, the target will most likely be impossible to meet, at least without a hugely expensive crash program to rebuild the energy system, and even that might not work.
报告草案认为，如果各国继续任由排放高速增长到2030年，这样的目标极有可能无法达到。除非采取成本惊人的能源体系重建计划，而且就连这样，仍可能功败垂成。
The leaked draft is the third and final segment of a major report that the climate change panel is completing in stages. The first segment, published in September, found a 95 percent or greater likelihood that humans are the main cause of climate change. The second, due out in March, is expected to warn about the likely consequences of climate change, including risks to the food supply.
流出的报告草案是IPCC分阶段完成的一份重要报告的第三部分，也就是最后一部分。第一部分于去年9月发表，其中得出结论，人类是气候变化主因的可能性不低于95%。第二部分定于今年3月发布，预计将对气候变化的可能后果发出警告，包括对粮食供应的威胁。
The third, focusing on policies to limit the damage, is due for publication in Berlin in April.
第三部分关注的是控制损失所需的政策，定于4月份在柏林发布。