BERLIN — Delivering the latest stark news about climate change on Sunday, a United Nations panel warned that governments are not doing enough to avert profound risks in coming decades. But the experts found a silver lining: Not only is there still time to head off the worst, but the political will to do so seems to be rising around the world.
柏林——周日，联合国的一个委员会发布了最新的有关气候变化的严酷信息，并且警告称，各国政府没有采取足够多的举措来预防未来几十年的重大风险。但专家们也发现了一线希望：仍有时间阻止最坏的情况，而世界各国政要愿意采取的举措也似乎与日俱增。
In a report unveiled here, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change found that decades of foot-dragging by political leaders had propelled humanity into a critical situation, with greenhouse emissions rising faster than ever. Though it remains technically possible to keep planetary warming to a tolerable level, only an intensive push over the next 15 years to bring those emissions under control can achieve the goal, the committee found.
政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）在柏林公布了一份报告，报告发现，政治领导人数十年来的拖延做法已将人类推入紧急状态，温室气体排放量的增加速度高于以往任何时候。该委员会发现，虽然将全球变暖保持在可容忍水平从技术上说是可行的，但只有在接下来15年里大举控制温室气体排放，才能达到这一目标。
“We cannot afford to lose another decade,” said Ottmar Edenhofer, a German economist and co-chairman of the committee that wrote the report. “If we lose another decade, it becomes extremely costly to achieve climate stabilization.”
“我们无法承担再拖十年的后果，”德国经济学家奥特马尔·埃登霍费尔(Ottmar Edenhofer)说。“如果再拖十年，实现气候稳定的目标将变得十分昂贵。”埃登霍费尔是撰写该报告的委员会的联合主席。
The good news is that ambitious action is becoming more affordable, the committee found. It is increasingly clear that measures like tougher building codes and efficiency standards for cars and trucks can save energy and reduce emissions without harming people’s quality of life, the panel found. And the costs of renewable energy like wind and solar power are falling so fast that its deployment on a large scale is becoming practical, the report said.
该委员会发现，好消息是这种宏伟举措的成本正在变得更易负担。该委员会发现，越来越清晰的是，实施更严建筑法规及提高汽车及卡车能效标准之类的措施不但能够节能减排，而且不会损害人们的生活质量。报告称，风能、太阳能等可再生能源的成本下降得非常快，大规模使用已经成为可能。
Moreover, since the intergovernmental panel issued its last major report in 2007, far more countries, states and cities have adopted climate plans, a measure of the growing political interest in tackling the problem. They include China and the United States, which are both doing more domestically than they have been willing to commit to in international treaty negotiations.
此外，自该政府间委员会于2007年发布上一份重要报告以来，采用气候计划的国家、州和城市已经大大增多，说明政界有意解决这个问题。采用气候计划的国家包括中国和美国，与致力于国际条约谈判相比，这两个国家都更愿意在国内采取更多举措。
Yet the report found that the emissions problem is still outrunning the determination to tackle it, with atmospheric carbon dioxide levels rising almost twice as fast in the first decade of this century as they did in the last decades of the 20th century. That reflects a huge rush to use coal-fired power plants in developing countries that are climbing up the income scale, especially China, while rich countries are making only slow progress in cutting their high emissions, the report said.
但该报告发现，排放问题的严重程度仍然超过了解决问题的决心，与20世纪最后10年相比，21世纪前10年大气层中二氧化碳的含量增加了将近两倍。报告称，这反映了那些收入排名逐渐提高的发展中国家大幅增加了燃煤电厂的使用，中国尤其如此，而发达国家只在削减高排放量方面取得了缓慢的进展。
The report is likely to increase the pressure to secure an ambitious new global climate treaty that is supposed to be completed in late 2015 and take effect in 2020. But the divisions between wealthy countries and poorer countries that have long bedeviled international climate talks were on display yet again in Berlin.
该报告可能会增加制定目标宏伟的全球气候新条约的压力，该条约据信将于2015年末完成，于2020年生效。但长期以来，富裕国家与贫穷国家之间的分歧扰乱了国际气候谈判，这种局面在柏林再次上演。
Some developing countries insisted on stripping charts from the report’s executive summary that could have been read as requiring greater effort from them, while rich countries — including the United States — struck out language that might have been seen as implying that they needed to write big checks to the developing countries. Both points survived in the full version of the report, but were deleted from a synopsis meant to inform the world’s top political leaders.
一些发展中国家坚持要求去除报告行动纲要中的一些表格，因为这些表格似乎要求发展中国家做出更大努力，而包括美国在内的富裕国家则删除了一些暗示他们需要给发展中国家提供大笔资助的字句。这两点留在了报告的完整版当中，但却被剔出了给世界高层政治领袖看的报告大纲。
The new report does not prescribe the actions that governments need to take. But it does make clear that putting a price on emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, either through taxes or the sale of emission permits, is a fundamental approach that could help redirect investment toward climate-friendly technologies.
新的报告并没有讲到政府需要采取的行动。但它的确表明，把投资引向有益气候的技术的根本性举措之一是要求人们为排放二氧化碳和其他温室气体付出代价，不论是通过税收还是排放许可销售的形式。
If climate targets are to be met, the report said, annual investment in electrical power plants that use fossil fuels will need to decline by about 20 percent in the coming two decades, while investment in low-carbon energy will need to double from current levels.
报告称，如果要达到气候目标，在未来20年内，对使用化石燃料的发电厂的投资就需要每年减少约20%，与此同时，对低碳能源的投资需要比目前的水平增加一倍。
The report warns that if greater efforts to cut emissions do not begin soon, future generations seeking to limit or reverse climate damage will have to depend on technologies that permanently remove greenhouse gases from the air; in effect, they will be trying to undo the damage caused by the people of today.
报告警告称，如果不迅速采取更大力度的减排举措，希望限制或扭转气候损害的未来几代人就不得不依靠能永远把温室气体从空气中移除出去的技术；实际上，他们将需要消除今天的人造成的损害。
But these technologies do not exist on any appreciable scale, the report said, and there is no guarantee that they will be available in the future, much less that they will be affordable.
但是报告称，这些技术都不具备有意义的规模，而且不能保证人们未来能用上这些技术，更不能保证未来的人们有能力负担它们的费用。
The latest report found that if countries keep stalling on tougher climate rules, trillions of dollars will be invested in coming years in power plants, cars and buildings that use too much energy from fossil fuels. The result, the report said, would be an emissions path that would be almost impossible to alter in time to get to the very low carbon pollution levels that scientists think are necessary by 2050.
前述最新报告认为，如果各国在采取更严厉的气候条例方面依然行动迟缓，未来数年就会有数万亿美元被投入过多使用化石燃料作为能源的发电厂、汽车和建筑。报告称，由此而来的结果将是这样一种排放路径，即人们几乎无法及时做出改变，无法达到科学家认为2050年必须达到的低碳污染水平。
The authors found that tackling the problem in a serious way would carry large costs, shaving a few hundredths of a percentage point off global economic growth each year. By the end of the century, societies would most likely be far richer than today, but almost 5 percent poorer than they would have been had they not spent the money to protect the climate, according to the study.
报告作者发现，认真处理这个问题将会带来巨大损失，每年的全球经济增长率将下跌万分之几。该研究发现，到本世纪末，社会很可能会比现在富裕很多，但如果人们没有把钱花在保护气候方面，富裕程度还会提升将近5%。
“Climate policy is not a free lunch,” Dr. Edenhofer said at a news conference Sunday in Berlin.
埃登霍费尔周日在柏林的新闻发布会上说，“气候政策不是免费的午餐。”