Details buried in the United Nations report on the Syrian chemical weapons attack point directly at elite military formations loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, some of the strongest findings to date that suggest the government gassed its own people.
联合国(United Nations)就叙利亚化学武器袭击的报告中包含的诸多细节，直指忠于巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)的精锐部队。这些细节也是迄今为止最有力的调查结果，显示出政府对自己的人民使用了毒气。
The inspectors, instructed to investigate the attack but not to assign blame, nonetheless listed the precise compass directions of flight for two rocket strikes that appeared to lead back to the government’s elite redoubt in Damascus, Mount Qasioun, which overlooks and protects Mr. Assad’s presidential palace and where his Republican Guard and the army’s powerful Fourth Division are entrenched.
检察人员得到的指示是，仅对袭击进行调查，不判定责任方。但报告中列出的两次火箭弹袭击飞行轨迹的精确罗盘方向似乎显示，发射地点为政府精锐部队位于大马士革卡西翁山(Mount Qasioun)的阵地，阵地俯瞰并保护着阿萨德的总统府。阿萨德的共和国卫队(Republican Guard)和政府军强大的第四师的驻扎地也在其保护范围之内。
“It is the center of gravity of the regime,” said Elias Hanna, a retired general in the Lebanese Army and a lecturer on strategy and geopolitics at the American University of Beirut. “It is the core of the regime.”
“这是该政权的重心所在，”黎巴嫩军方退役将领、贝鲁特美国大学(American University of Beirut)地缘政治及战略讲师埃利亚斯·汉纳(Elias Hanna)说道。“这里就是该政权的核心。”
In presenting the data concerning two rocket strikes — the significance of which was not commented upon by the United Nations itself — the report provides a stronger indication than the public statements to date of intelligence services of the United States, France or Britain that the Syrian military not only carried out the attack, but apparently did so brazenly, firing from the same ridges from which it has been firing barrages of high-explosive conventional munitions for much of the war.
报告给出了两次火箭弹袭击的相关数据，联合国自身并未就数据的意义发表任何评论。与美、法、英情报机构的公开声明相比，报告更为有力地显示出叙利亚军方不仅进行了袭击，而且显然明目张胆。发射地点所在的山脊，在此次内战中，已多次密集发射含有高能烈性炸药的常规炸弹。
Looming over a tense capital and outlying neighborhoods bristling with anger and fear, Mount Qasioun is Damascus’s most prominent military position. It is also a complex inseparably linked to the Assad family’s rule, a network of compounds and positions occupied by elite units led by members of the president’s inner circle and clan.
卡西翁山面对着局势紧张的首都和充满愤怒与恐惧的周边地区，是大马士革最突出的军事要地。总统心腹和亲信领导的精锐部队占据着这里的一片片营房和阵地，这片军事设施与阿萨德家族的统治密不可分。
The units based on the mountain are “as close to the Assad regime as it’s going to get,” said Emile Hokayem, an analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. Mr. Hokayem added that theories that the chemicals had been launched by a rebel mole seeking to discredit the government were unlikely because of the solidity and tight control of those units.
国际战略研究所(International Institute for Strategic Studies)分析专家埃米尔·霍卡彦姆(Emile Hokayem)说，驻扎在山上的部队“和阿萨德政权之间的关系已经近到不能再近了”。他还补充道，曾有理论认为化学武器是反对派安插的奸细为了抹黑政府而发射的，但这不太可能，因为这些部队人员可靠性高，内控很严。
Mr. Assad’s government and its ally, Russia, have continued to claim publicly that Syrian rebels were responsible for the attacks, which killed hundreds of people, many of them children, in the most lethal chemical warfare attack in decades. But the United Nations data, if accurate, would undercut that claim and appear to erase some of the remaining ambiguity.
阿萨德政府及盟友俄罗斯则继续公开宣称叙利亚反对派应对袭击负责。这场几十年来最具杀伤力的化学武器袭击，已造成数百人死亡，其中有许多儿童。但如果联合国的数据是准确的，就能反驳上述说法，并澄清部分仍不明确的情况。
Rebel forces have never penetrated the major military installations of Mount Qasioun. In tactical and technical terms, they would almost certainly have been unable to organize and fire sustained and complex barrages of rockets from that location undetected.
反对派武装从未攻破过卡西翁山的军事设施。从战术及技术角度看，几乎可以确定他们不可能从这个地点组织并持续、密集地发射火箭弹，而丝毫不被觉察。
The United Nations’ evidence was gathered through standard measurements and investigative techniques at the places where sarin-filled rockets struck on Aug. 21.
联合国的证据是通过标准的计量方法和调查手段，从8月21日遭填充沙林毒气的火箭弹袭击的地点采集的。
At one impact site, investigators found both the place where the rocket had passed through a “vegetal screen” above a wall just before it hit the ground, and the small impact crater itself.
在一处火箭弹落地点，调查人员发现了火箭弹落地前穿过墙头“植物幕墙”的位置，以及火箭弹落地后留下的小弹坑。
They noted that the “the line linking the crater and the piercing of the vegetal screen can be conclusively established and has a bearing of 35 degrees.”
他们指出，“可以确凿地画出弹坑位置和穿透植物幕墙的位置之间的连线，连线方位角为35度。”
At another impact area in another section of Damascus, a 330-millimeter rocket landed on what investigators described as “earthy, relatively soft ground, where the shaft/engine of the projectile remained dug in, undisturbed until investigated.”
在大马士革的另一处火箭弹落地区域，一枚330毫米口径的火箭弹落在被调查人员形容为“较为柔软的土质地面上。导弹弹身/引擎部分依然插在土中，在调查进行之前，并未遭到扰动。”
The rocket’s shaft, the investigators noted, “pointed precisely in a bearing of 285 degrees.”
调查人员指出，火箭弹弹身“指向方位角正好是285度。”
There the investigators’ public comments about their observations at impact sites essentially stopped, except for a parting explanation that shows how to reach a conclusion that the United Nations itself, in accordance with its mandate, did not say.
就火箭弹落地点的观察，调查人员做出的公开评论基本到此为止，不过最后还对应当如何取得结论进行了解释说明。但是联合国自身，碍于授权，并未做出任何结论。
These azimuths, or compass bearings, they noted, can be reversed to show the direction from which the rockets had been fired. They point back toward the geographic source of the attack, which investigators on the ground presumably would have been able, with their own eyes, to see high above them in the city.
他们指出，这些方位角，也就是罗盘方位，可以通过反向延长显示出火箭弹是从哪个方位发射出来的。它们所指向的袭击发动点的地理方位，地面的调查人员想必能够看出，是高于城市的位置。
When taken together, the azimuths drawn from different neighborhoods lead back to and intersect at Mount Qasioun — so far an impregnable seat of Mr. Assad’s power — according to independent and separate calculations by both The New York Times and Human Rights Watch.
根据《纽约时报》和人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)各自独立计算的结果，经汇总后发现，不同区域火箭弹落地的方位角均指向，并相交于卡西翁山。这里目前仍是阿萨德政权坚不可摧的堡垒。
“Connecting the dots provided by these numbers allows us to see for ourselves where the rockets were likely launched from and who was responsible,” Josh Lyons, a satellite imagery analyst for Human Rights Watch noted in a statement on Tuesday.
“通过这些数字把各个点连接起来，我们就能看到火箭弹可能是从哪里发射出来的，而谁应对此负责，”人权观察组织卫星图像分析专家乔什·莱恩斯(Josh Lyons)周二在一份声明中指出。
“This isn’t conclusive,” Mr. Lyons added. “But it is highly suggestive.”
“这并非明确的结论，”莱恩斯补充道。“但非常有指向性。”
The map that Mr. Lyons and Human Rights Watch prepared, made in parallel to a similar map by The Times but with no consultation or exchange of information, suggested that gas-filled rockets, which sailed over central Damascus and landed in civilian neighborhoods, originated “from the direction of the Republican Guard 104th Brigade,” which occupies a large base on the mountain’s western side.
在未经事先沟通或信息交流的情况下，莱恩斯和人权观察组织与《时报》同时拿出了相似的地图。莱恩斯的地图显示携带毒气的火箭弹飞过大马士革中心地带，降落在平民生活区。是 “从共和国卫队的104旅驻地的方向”发射过来。该旅在山的西侧占据着一个巨大的基地。
Brownish by day, Mount Qasioun sparkles at night with the lights of neighborhoods climbing its slopes, and higher up, cafes where in normal times Damascus residents go in the evening to enjoy the view. In the midst of a civil war, Mount Qasioun is now largely off limits because it has become a government-controlled military zone.
卡西翁山白天是棕褐色的，到了晚上，依山而建的居民区会闪现点点灯光。高处有几家咖啡馆，大马士革的居民在生活还正常的时候，傍晚会去咖啡馆享受美景。内战中，卡西翁山作为政府控制的军事地带，大部分已成为禁区。
Though not visible from the city, various military bases are located farther back atop the mountain. The government’s presence on the high ground includes elements of two brigades of the Republican Guard, a Special Forces headquarters and many artillery or rocket positions from which Syria’s military routinely fires barrages, rebels and city residents say.
尽管在城市里看不到，在远处的高山上其实分布着数个军事基地。占据高地的政府军包括共和国卫队的两个旅，一个特种部队司令部和许多的火炮和火箭炮阵地。据反对派武装和城市居民称，叙利亚军方经常从这些阵地进行密集发射。
Over the past year, shelling from Mount Qasioun has become the capital’s familiar soundtrack. At night, Syrian humanitarian workers say they can see the streak of projectiles flying from the ridge over the city toward rebel-held suburbs south and west of the capital.
在过去一年，来自卡西翁山的炮击已成为首都熟悉的配乐。夜间，叙利亚的人道主义工作人员说他们能看到一枚枚的导弹从山脊飞出，越过城市射向反对派控制的首都南部和西部郊区。
The entire mountain has remained the most securely held government area on the outskirts of Damascus. If rebels ever managed to take the area, analysts said, it could spell the fall of the government, but they have yet to threaten it seriously.
整个山脉是政府在大马士革周边控制最严的地区。分析人士说，如果叛乱分子能够占领该地区，那就意味着政府彻底垮了，但他们至今还没能构成真正的威胁。