UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations Security Council on Monday unanimously passed a resolution that “condemns in the strongest terms” the attack that brought down the Malaysia Airlines plane in eastern Ukraine, called for an international investigation with the United Nations civil aviation agency, and demanded that armed groups at the crash site allow unfettered access.
联合国——周一，联合国安理会(United Nations Security Council)一致通过一项决议，对马来西亚航空公司MH17航班在乌克兰东部上空遭袭坠毁的事件给予“最强烈的谴责”，同时要求各方与联合国民航机构合作开展国际调查，要求失事现场的武装组织允许相关人员不受干涉地自由出入。
Russia agreed to support the draft text after intense negotiations that went on until early Monday morning, in which language of the draft text was tweaked to satisfy the Kremlin’s demands. The phrase “shooting down” was changed to “downing.” The role of the Ukrainian government was diminished. A paragraph calling for a cessation of hostilities around the crash site was added.
激烈的谈判一直持续到周一凌晨，谈判结束后，俄罗斯同意支持决议草案的文本。联合国调整了草案文本的措辞，以满足克里姆林宫的要求。“击落”(shooting down)一词被改为“坠落”(downing)，乌克兰政府的作用也被削弱了。草案中增加了一段内容，呼吁停止失事现场附近的作战行为。
The Russian ambassador, Vitaly I. Churkin, said as he entered the Council chamber that the text had been “improved” in order to win his government’s support.
俄罗斯驻联合国大使维塔利·I·丘尔金(Vitaly I. Churkin)进入安理会的会议厅时表示，各方已经对草案做了“改进”，以便获得俄罗斯的支持。
It remains to be seen if the separatists who control the area around the crash site will cooperate with international investigators. The resolution is not under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, and, as a result, not enforceable.
控制失事现场周边地区的分裂分子是否会配合国际调查人员，还有待观察。这项决议并不是依据《联合国宪章》(United Nations Charter)第七章的规定做出的，因此不具有强制性。
“It is despicable this access is not being provided,” the Australian foreign minister, Julie Bishop, told the Council. Australia drafted the resolution.
澳大利亚外交部长朱莉·毕晓普(Julie Bishop)对安理会表示，“不允许相关人员进入现场的做法十分卑劣。”这项决议是由澳大利亚起草的。
All 298 people on board were killed. The majority were from the Netherlands.
飞机上298人全部遇难，其中大多数是荷兰人。
The Dutch foreign minister, Frans Timmermans, told reporters earlier in the day that his chief priority was to secure the help of the Council to bring the bodies of his compatriots home.
荷兰外交大臣弗朗斯·蒂莫曼斯(Frans Timmermans)当天早些时候告诉记者，他的首要任务是获得安理会的帮助，将同胞的遗体运回国。
“We are a nation united in our wish to bring our loved ones back home and also our wish to investigate what happened and then hold those responsible accountable,” Mr. Timmermans said at the offices of the Dutch mission to the United Nations.
蒂莫曼斯在荷兰驻联合国使团的办公室表示，“全国上下都一致希望，将心爱的人带回家，也希望查清事实，并追究责任。”
Diplomatic pressure on Russia gained some momentum on Monday afternoon at the United Nations, as Mr. Timmermans sharply accused the separatists who control the area of the crash site of playing with the remains of the dead and Australia exhorted Moscow to use its influence over those separatists.
周一下午，俄罗斯在联合国承受了越来越大的外交压力，蒂莫曼斯强烈指责控制失事现场的分裂分子，给死者遗体捣乱的行为。澳大利亚劝戒莫斯科，应当动用它对分裂分子的影响力。
Speaking to a packed Security Council chamber, Mr. Timmermans appealed to the diplomats around the table to imagine what it must feel like to be told of a husband’s death and then watch “images of some thug removing a wedding band from their hand.”
蒂莫曼斯在座无虚席的安理会会议厅发言时，呼吁围坐在桌边的外交官们想象一下，听闻丈夫罹难的噩耗之后，紧接着却目睹到“一群恶棍把死者手上的婚戒抢走的画面”，他们会有怎样的感受。
“This is the political game that is being played with human remains and it’s despicable,” he said.
他说，“这就是拿死者遗体当儿戏的政治游戏，行径十分卑劣。”
Speaking to reporters outside the Council, he was far more pointed at Russia. He said he found it “mind-boggling” that Russia, having initially accused Ukraine in the crash, did not call on the separatists to cooperate with international investigators over the last several days. “I hope Russia would now feel its responsibility, act upon its responsibility,” Mr. Timmermans said. “If it doesn’t, it’s going to have an increasingly isolated position in the international community.”
蒂莫曼斯在安理会外对记者们讲话时，更明显地指责了俄罗斯。他指出，俄罗斯在坠机事件中最初曾指责乌克兰，而在过去几天里，俄罗斯并没有呼吁分裂分子与国际调查人员合作。他评价这种做法“让人十分惊诧”。蒂莫曼斯说，“我希望俄罗斯现在能体会到自己的责任、履行这种责任。如果不这么做的话，它在国际社会的处境就会越来越孤立。”
Ms. Bishop, the Australian foreign minister, said it was “incumbent” on Russia as a member of the Security Council “to ensure the intent of resolution is implemented.”
澳大利亚外长毕晓普说，俄罗斯作为安理会的成员国，“有责任确保决议的精神得到履行。”
The American ambassador, Samantha Power, chided Moscow for not speaking publicly about the need to ensure the safety of international investigators until Monday, just before the passage of the resolution. “Russia’s muteness over the dark days between Thursday and today sent a message to the illegal armed groups it supports: We have your backs,” she said.
美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)斥责了俄罗斯。她说，俄罗斯一直不肯公开强调保障国际调查人员安全的必要性，直到本周一，也就是决议通过的前一刻才转变了口风。她说，“从上周四到今天，在这段黑暗的日子里，俄罗斯的缄默，向受其支持的非法武装组织传递了这样一则讯息：‘我们是你们的后盾’。”
Mr. Churkin said he welcomed what he hoped would be “an objective investigation” that would involve the Netherlands in coordination with the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations agency.
荷兰和联合国下属机构国际民用航空组织(International Civil Aviation Organization)将协作参与此次事件的调查。丘尔金说，他对调查表示欢迎，并期待这是“一次客观的调查”。