GENEVA — Myanmar is reversing democratic reforms at an accelerating rate in an election year that will define its future, a United Nations investigator monitoring developments in the country said on Wednesday.
日内瓦——一名监测缅甸发展的联合国(United Nations)调查人员周三表示，在这个将决定国家未来的选举年，缅甸正在以更快的速度逆转民主改革进程。
“There are worrying signs of backtracking, and in some areas, backtracking has gained momentum,” Yanghee Lee, the special rapporteur on Myanmar, told reporters in Geneva, drawing attention to harsh treatment and arrests of people who criticize the government or the country’s politically dominant armed forces.
“有令人担忧的迹象表明缅甸正在倒退，而且在某些领域，倒退势头正变得越来越强，”联合国缅甸问题特别报告员李亮喜(Yanghee Lee)在日内瓦告诉记者，希望人们对这类情况提起注意。那些对政府或者在政治上占主导地位的军队表示批判的人，遭到了恶劣对待或逮捕。
Myanmar officially acknowledges 27 political prisoners, but 78 other activists have been detained on political charges, and 200 more are on trial, Ms. Lee said. Human rights activists face regular surveillance, and some have been imprisoned under outdated defamation and national security laws, with a “chilling effect” on activism, she added.
李亮喜说，缅甸正式承认的政治犯有27名，但另外还有78名活动人士因为政治罪名被捕，200人在接受审判。她还表示，人权活动人士经常受到监视，有些人还因为过时的诽谤和国家安全法而被关押入狱，对社会运动构成了一种“寒蝉效应”。
President Thein Sein’s government, which won praise for opening up Myanmar to reform, is preparing for elections this year and is promising a referendum on amendments to the Constitution, but government leaders appear to be stonewalling calls to make the Constitution more democratic, Ms. Lee said.
李亮喜说，缅甸总统登盛（Thein Sein ，又译吴登盛）的政府原本因为让缅甸接受改革而获得赞誉，目前它正在准备今年的选举，而且承诺会对修宪进行公投，但政府领导人却似乎在阻止宪法的民主化。
In a report submitted to the United Nations Human Rights Council this month, Ms. Lee noted “a growing atmosphere of fear, distrust and hostility,” urging the government to adopt more equitable development policies and “reverse the current slide towards extreme nationalism, religious hatred and conflict.”
李亮喜在本月递交给联合国人权理事会(United Nations Human Rights Council)的一份报告中指出，“恐惧、缺乏信任和敌意的氛围正变得越来越浓烈”，她还敦促政府采取更公平的发展政策，“扭转目前向极端民族主义、宗教仇恨和冲突滑落的趋势。”
Myanmar’s more than one million Rohingya Muslims remain a particular concern, Ms. Lee said, reporting “abysmal” conditions in camps set up for Muslims displaced by violence in Rakhine State last year. The Rohingya are the target of severe discrimination in Myanmar, where Buddhists predominate.
李亮喜表示，缅甸100多万名罗辛亚族穆斯林的情况仍旧令人格外担心，汇报了因去年若开邦暴力冲突而流离失所的穆斯林搭建的营地条件“极其恶劣”。罗辛亚人在佛教徒占主导地位的缅甸遭受严重歧视。
A government decision to invalidate temporary identity cards at the end of the month increases vulnerability for the 800,000 Rohingya Muslims who hold them, she said.
李亮喜表示，政府宣布临时身份证将在本月底失效，这一决定将会加剧80万名持有临时身份证的罗辛亚族穆斯林的苦难。
Four proposed laws on race and religion submitted to Parliament would cement discriminatory attitudes and prevent Myanmar from becoming a pluralist society, Ms. Lee warned in her report.
李亮喜在报告中警告称，提交给议会的四部有关种族及宗教的法案将会强化歧视态度，阻止缅甸成为一个多元社会。
Ms. Lee said she faced hostile demonstrations in all of the towns she visited during her last trip to Myanmar, in January, when a prominent extremist Buddhist monk, Ashin Wirathu, denounced her as a “whore” for her views on race and religion.
她表示，上次——也就是1月份来缅甸时，她在到访的所有城镇都遇到了充满敌意的示威活动，当时知名的极端佛教僧人阿欣威拉杜(Ashin Wirathu)因她对种族及宗教的看法而骂她是“荡妇”。
Ms. Lee said she was confident that the government would ensure her security when she returned to Myanmar later this year, but last week, after she submitted her report to the Human Rights Council, the monk attacked her again, urging the public to “teach the beastly woman a lesson.”
李亮喜表示，她相信今年晚些时候回到缅甸时，政府会确保她的安全，但上周，就在她向人权理事会提交报告之后，这名僧人再次攻击她，怂恿民众“给这个野蛮的女人一个教训”。