LONDON — Iraq has notified the United Nations of a seizure of nuclear material from a university in the northern city of Mosul by Sunni militants who overran it last month as they advanced toward Baghdad, the nuclear regulatory body of the United Nations said on Thursday. Gill Tudor, a spokeswoman for the International Atomic Energy Agency, which is based in Vienna, said in a statement that the organization’s experts believed the material — thought to be uranium — was “low-grade and would not present a significant safety, security or nuclear proliferation risk.”
伦敦——联合国负责监管核事务的机构周四表示，伊拉克已通知联合国，上月在向巴格达推进途中占领了北部城市摩苏尔的逊尼派武装分子，从当地一所大学抢走了核材料。总部位于维也纳的国际原子能机构女发言人吉尔·图德(Gill Tudor)在一份声明中说，该组织的专家认为被抢走的材料据认含铀，属“低纯度，对核安全、核保障或核扩散风险没有明显的影响。”
Word of the seizure first emerged in a letter to the United Nations dated July 8 and seen by reporters from Reuters, which quoted it as saying that “terrorists” from the insurgent Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, known as ISIS, had taken control of the materials.
核材料被抢的文字最早出现在发给联合国的信中，信的日期是7月8日，路透社的记者首先看到了这些文字并援引其中说法称，来自叛乱组织伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的“恐怖分子”，已控制了那些材料。
The letter said almost 90 pounds of uranium compounds had been kept at the university and that the materials “can be used in manufacturing weapons of mass destruction,” Reuters said.
路透社称，信中写道，那里的大学曾保存有近90磅的铀化合物，这些材料“可以被用来制造大规模杀伤性武器”。
The mention of such weapons has a resonance in Iraq where the American-led invasion of 2003 was justified in Washington and London by assertions that Saddam Hussein had acquired weapons of mass destruction. None were ever found by the invading forces.
提起这种武器让人联想到2003年美国入侵伊拉克时用的理由，当时华盛顿和伦敦都断言，萨达姆·侯赛因已获得了大规模杀伤性武器。但是入侵部队未曾找到任何这类武器。
In her statement on Thursday, Ms. Tudor said that the I.A.E.A. “is aware of the notification from Iraq and is in contact to seek further details.”
图德在周四的声明中表示，国际原子能机构“知道来自伊拉克的通知，并在进一步联系以得到更多的细节”。
She said that experts did not believe that the material could be fashioned into a weapon. “Nevertheless,” the statement said, “any loss of regulatory control over nuclear and other radioactive materials is a cause for concern.”
她说，专家们不认为这些材料可以用来制造武器。声明说，“尽管如此，任何对核及其他放射性材料失去监管控制的情况都令人担忧。”
The statement was issued days after the Iraqi government acceded to the I.A.E.A.'s Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material on July 7. The convention initially entered into force in 1987 and was strengthened in 2005 to require its 150 signatories to “protect nuclear facilities and material in peaceful domestic use, storage and transport,” a statement from the I.A.E.A. said.
在这份声明发出的几天前，伊拉克政府刚于7月7日同意加入国际原子能机构的核材料实物保护公约。该公约最早在1987年生效，并在2005年得到加强，修订后的公约要求其150个缔约国“在国内和平使用、贮存和运输中，保护核设施及核材料，”一份来自国际原子能机构的声明说。