UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations Security Council voted unanimously on Wednesday to adopt tougher sanctions against North Korea, reflecting closer cooperation between the United States and Chinaon a longstanding dispute.
联合国——周三，联合国安理会( United Nations Security Council)一致投票同意对朝鲜施以更严厉的制裁，这反映了美国和中国在一个长期存在争端的问题上开始进行更加密切的合作。
The 15-member Council approved a draft resolution, negotiated for weeks by American and Chinese officials, that called for inspecting all cargo going in and out of the country, banning all weapons trade and expanding the list of individuals facing sanctions.
由15个成员国组成的安理会批准了一项决议草案，要求检查所有进出朝鲜的货物，禁止一切武器交易，并扩大制裁个人的名单；美国和中国官员此前就该草案进行了数周的谈判。
Diplomats said the resolution contained the most stringent measures yet to undermine the North’s ability to raise money and secure technology and other resources for its nuclear weapons program. Much depends, however, on whether China — North Korea’s leading trade partner and diplomatic shield — will enforce it.
外交官们说，这项决议包含了迄今为止最严厉的措施，用来削弱朝鲜为其核武计划筹集资金、获得技术和其他资源的能力。然而，它能否奏效在很大程度上取决于中国——朝鲜的主要贸易伙伴和外交后盾——是否执行这些措施。
Samantha Power, the American ambassador to the United Nations, called the resolution “comprehensive, robust and unyielding,” and said enforcement must be as well.
美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)称该决议“全面、有力、坚定”，并表示在执行的时候也必须如此。
The Council has sought to hobble North Korea’s nuclear weapons program before, but the country has repeatedly flouted those measures. In January, it conducted its fourth nuclear test and launched a rocket in February, even as diplomats were negotiating the current resolution.
安理会以前也试图限制朝鲜的核武器计划，但这个国家一再无视这些措施。今年1月，朝鲜进行了第四次核试验，2月，就在外交官就当前的决议进行谈判之际，朝鲜又发射了一枚火箭。
The measure’s toughest component would require all countries to inspect all cargo passing through their territory to or from North Korea. In the past, inspections were required only if there was reasonable suspicion that shipments contained banned items.
这项措施最棘手的部分，是要求每个国家检查所有通过其领土的前往或来自朝鲜的货物。在过去，只有在有理由怀疑货物中含有违禁物品的时候，才会进行检查。
The resolution would expand the list of banned goods to include luxury watches, Jet Skis and snowmobiles worth more than $2,000. Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s ruler, has been known to use such items to curry favor with fellow members of the country’s elite.
该决议将扩大禁运商品的名单，把价格超过2000美元（约合人民币1.3万元）的高档手表、摩托艇和雪地车包含在内。据悉，朝鲜统治者金正恩(Kim Jong-un)利用这样的商品来笼络该国权贵阶层的其他成员。
It would also require countries to expel North Korean diplomats accused of carrying out illicit activities. It would prohibit North Korea from sending its martial arts experts to train police officers in foreign countries, as a United Nations panel recently accused Pyongyang of doing in Uganda.
决议还将要求各国驱逐被控进行非法活动的朝鲜外交官，禁止朝鲜派武术专家前往外国培训警察；联合国的一个小组最近指责平壤在乌干达开展这样的活动。
Significant loopholes remain, however. North Korea would still be able to buy oil and sell its coal and iron ore, as long as it was not used to finance the country’s nuclear weapons program — an activity that would be difficult to prove. Although prices have fallen in recent years, minerals still account for 53 percent of North Korea’s $2.5 billion in exports to China, its chief supplier of oil.
但是仍然有明显的漏洞存在。朝鲜仍然能购买石油，能够销售煤炭和铁矿石，只要收入没有被用在该国的核武器计划上——这一点很难证明。尽管矿产品的价格在最近几年有所下降，但在朝鲜对中国的25亿美元出口额中，矿产品仍占53%；中国是朝鲜的主要石油供应商。