UNITED NATIONS — International efforts to end the war in Syria faltered further on Tuesday as the United Nations mediator quit, citing frustrations over the moribund political negotiations, and France’s top diplomat said there was evidence the Syrian government used chemical weapons more than a dozen times after it had signed the treaty banning them.
联合国——周二，随着一位联合国调停人员的辞职，国际社会终结叙利亚内战的努力陷入了更深的困境。据称辞职的理由是对毫无进展的政治协商感到沮丧。此外，法国外交部长表示，有证据证明，虽然叙利亚政府签署了禁止使用化学武器的条约，但是仍使用过十多次化学武器。
Taken together, the two events pointed to the failings of the West’s signature efforts on Syria, finding a diplomatic way out of a civil war in its fourth year — and a pact that was proudly touted as stopping the Syrian government from using chemical weapons.
这两个消息表明，西方在叙利亚问题上的标志性行动遭遇了失败——西方试图通过外交手段终结叙利亚已经持续到第四年的内战。西方也以为，曾被大肆宣扬的一纸协定，能够阻止叙利亚政府动用化学武器。
The United Nations secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, announced that he had accepted the resignation of his special envoy, Lakhdar Brahimi, who told reporters, “It’s very sad that I leave this position and leave Syria behind in such a bad state.”
联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)宣布，已经接受特使拉赫达尔·卜拉希米(Lakhdar Brahimi)的辞职请求。卜拉希米告诉记者，“在我离职的时候，叙利亚仍然处在这样糟糕的状态，我感到很悲哀。”
His departure — without even a hint of who might succeed him — signaled the bleak prospects for peace in a conflict that has claimed more than 150,000 lives and shows no signs of abating, as President Bashar al-Assad says he intends to serve another seven-year term after staging elections in June. Mr. Brahimi’s announcement came just two days before Secretary of State John Kerry and his counterparts from European and Arab nations are to gather in London to discuss the crisis in Syria, with no new or obvious path forward.
卜拉希米的离职说明和平前景黯淡，叙利亚的冲突已经导致逾15万人死亡，而且没有减弱的迹象。还没有消息指出谁会替代他。巴沙尔·阿萨德总统(Bashar al-Assad)表示，他打算在6月组织大选之后，再做完一个七年任期。卜拉希米宣布辞职两天后，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)将与欧洲及阿拉伯国家外长齐聚伦敦，讨论叙利亚危机，然而前方并没有新方向或显而易见解决途径。
Asked for his message to the Syrian people, Mr. Brahimi said later in the day: “Apologies once more.”
当天晚些时候，在被问到想对叙利亚人民说些什么时，卜拉希米说：“再次表示歉意。”
But there were also signs of disarray within the Western coalition on Tuesday, as France’s foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, expressed regret that the Obama administration had decided against using force after an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack in the Damascus area that Western nations, led by the United States, blamed on forces loyal to President Assad.
但周二，西方阵营内部还出现了混乱的迹象。法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)称，在去年8月21日大马士革地区发生化学武器袭击之后，奥巴马政府决定不使用武力，他对此表示遗憾。以美国为首的西方国家称，上述袭击是忠于阿萨德总统的部队所为。
Though an American military strike was called off when Syria agreed to give up its chemical weapons, Mr. Fabius said there were “indications” that Syria had since waged 14 chemical attacks.
尽管当叙利亚同意放弃化学武器后，美国叫停了军事打击，但是法比尤斯表示，“一些迹象”显示，叙利亚之后发动了14次化武袭击。
“Right now, we are examining the samples that were taken,” he told reporters.
他告诉记者，“目前，我们正在研究采集来的样本。”
France, Mr. Fabius indicated, had been prepared to use force last year as part of an American-led coalition, but had not wanted to act alone. Had such a military strike been carried out, Mr. Fabius said, “we feel that it would have changed many things.”
法比尤斯指出，作为美国领导的联合行动的一部分，法国去年曾准备好动武，但并不想单独行动。法比尤斯说，如果实施了军事打击，“我们觉得许多事情都会不同。”
While France had previously indicated its chagrin over the Obama administration’s military pullback on Syria, it was unusual for France’s top diplomat to speak so frankly about it — in Washington no less, following a meeting with his American counterpart, Mr. Kerry.
尽管法国之前表示，对奥巴马政府放弃打击叙利亚感到遗憾，但法国外长如此直言不讳地表态仍然不同寻常——而且居然是在华盛顿，与他的美国同僚克里召开会议之后。
Mr. Fabius’s assertions of chemical weapons use, most of them involving chlorine bombs, came as other signs pointed to Syrian government culpability. Human Rights Watch, in a report on Tuesday, said it had evidence that Mr. Assad’s forces had dropped chlorine-filled bombs from helicopters on three towns in northern Syria in April. The chemical weapons treaty that Syria signed last year prohibits using chlorine as a weapon, even though chlorine itself isn’t banned.
法比尤斯所说的叙利亚使用的化学武器大多数涉及氯弹。与此同时，还有其他一些迹象也显示叙利亚政府负有罪责。人权观察(Human Rights Watch)周二在一份报告中说，该机构有证据证明，阿萨德的部队今年4月在叙利亚北部的三个城镇上空，用直升机投下了装有氯的炸弹。叙利亚去年签署的化武条约禁止将氯作为武器，不过氯本身并没有被禁止。
The State Department had no comment on Mr. Fabius’s assertions of chemical attacks, saying the matter was being investigated by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. The Russian ambassador to the United Nations, Vitaly I. Churkin, likewise urged patience until the investigation was finished.
美国国务院没有评论法比尤斯对化武袭击的断言，而是表示，此事正受到禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapon)的调查。俄罗斯驻联合国大使维塔利·I·丘尔金(Vitaly I. Churkin)同样敦促各方保持耐心，等待调查结束。
Western officials have said in recent weeks that they were aware of reports that the use of chlorine might have occurred more than a dozen times.
近几周，西方官员表示，他们已听说了氯气可能被使用了十多次的报道。
The State Department on Tuesday defended President Obama’s decision to refrain from using force, saying that it led to an agreement that has eliminated 92 percent of Syria’s precursor chemicals, which are used to make poison gas, and noting that it was pushing Syria to give up the rest.
周二，美国国务院为奥巴马总统避免动武的决定辩护，称该决定促成了一项协议，从而销毁了叙利亚92%的前驱体，即用于制备毒气的化学品。国务院还指出，正在推动叙利亚放弃剩余的化学品。
Since the Syrian conflict began, the Obama administration has repeatedly said that it was trying to bring about a political solution in which Mr. Assad would agree to yield power and a transitional government would be formed. Critics have asserted that the talks were unlikely to work unless Mr. Assad was first weakened militarily, giving his political opponents more leverage.
自叙利亚爆发冲突以来，奥巴马政府就一再表示，正在设法促成政治解决方案。按照方案，阿萨德将同意放弃权力，随后过渡政府将组建起来。批评者断言，除非阿萨德的军力先被削弱，致使其政敌获得更大筹码，否则谈判不太可能取得效果。