STOCK HOLM — The world’s top climate scientists on Friday formally embraced an upper limit on greenhouse gases for the first time, establishing a target level at which humanity must stop spewing them into the atmosphere or face irreversible climatic changes. They warned that the target is likely to be exceeded in a matter of decades unless steps are taken soon to reduce emissions.
斯德哥尔摩——周五，世界顶级气候科学家齐聚一堂，首次正式支持对温室气体排放总量设定上限，制定了一个目标水平。一旦超过这个水平，人类必须停止向大气中排放温室气体，否则便会面临无法逆转的气候变化。他们警告，除非尽快采取减排措施，否则几十年后这一目标便可能被超越。
Unveiling the latest United Nations assessment of climate science, the experts cited a litany of changes that were already under way, warned that they were likely to accelerate and expressed virtual certainty that human activity is the main cause. “Climate change is the greatest challenge of our time,” said Thomas F. Stocker, co-chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the United Nations-sponsored group of scientists that produced the report. “In short, it threatens our planet, our only home.”
在揭晓联合国对气候科学的最新评估时，这些专家援引了一系列已在发生的变化，警告称这些变化很可能会加剧，并近乎肯定地表示，人类活动是主要原因。“气候变化是我们这个时代最严峻的挑战，”政府间气候变化专门委员会（Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change，简称IPCC）联合主席托马斯·F·斯托克(Thomas F. Stocker)说，“简而言之，它危及到了地球，我们唯一的家园。”撰写了相关报告的该委员会由科学家组成，受联合国资助。
The panel, in issuing its most definitive assessment yet of the risks of human-caused warming, hoped to give impetus to international negotiations toward a new climate treaty, which have languished in recent years in a swamp of technical and political disputes. The group made clear that time was not on the planet’s side if emissions continued unchecked.
针对人类导致的变暖所带来的风险，这是IPCC迄今为止做出的最为权威的评估报告。该委员会希望借此为围绕新气候条约而举行的国际谈判提供动力。近年来，在众多技术和政治争端中，相关谈判停滞不前。该委员会明确表示，如果继续对温室气体排放不加限制，地球所剩时日不多。
“Human influence has been detected in warming of the atmosphere and the ocean, in changes in the global water cycle, in reductions in snow and ice, in global mean sea level rise, and in changes in some climate extremes,” the report said. “It is extremely likely that human influence has been the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century.”
“在大气和海洋的变暖、全球水循环发生的变化、冰雪的减少、全球平均海平面的上升以及部分极端气候的变化中，均发现了人类影响，”该报告称，“人类影响极有可能是20世纪中期以来已观察到的变暖现象的主要原因。”
The new report is a 36-page summary for world leaders of a 900-page report that is to be released next week on the physical science of climate change. That will be followed by additional reports in 2014 on the most likely impacts and on possible steps to limit the damage. A draft of the summary leaked last month, and the final version did not change greatly, though it was edited for clarity.
这份新报告长36页，是一份内容有900页之多的报告的摘要，用途是供全世界的领导人阅读。完整报告将于下周发布，内容是气候变化的自然科学证据与论述。继完整报告之后，IPCC还将于2014年就最有可能造成的影响，以及可以采取的限制损失的措施发布报告。上月，摘要草稿被泄露，而最终定稿并没有大的改动，只是为了条理清晰而进行了编辑。
Going well beyond its four previous analyses of the emissions problem, the panel endorsed a “carbon budget” for humanity — a limit on the amount of the primary greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide, that can be produced by industrial activities and the clearing of forests. No more than one trillion metric tons of carbon could be burned and the resulting gases released into the atmosphere, the panel found, if planetary warming is to be kept below 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit (2 degrees Celsius) above the level of preindustrial times. That temperature is a target above which scientists believe the most dangerous effects of climate change would begin to occur.
该委员会远远超越了此前对温室气体排放问题进行的四次分析，支持人类社会实行“碳预算”。这是一种限制二氧化碳排放总量的措施。二氧化碳是主要的温室气体，工业活动与毁林均可产生二氧化碳。该委员会得出结论，若要让全球变暖保持在比前工业化时代的水平高不到2摄氏度的水平，最多只能燃烧1万亿吨碳，并将产生的气体排到大气中。科学家们相信，如果高于这个目标温度，气候变化造成的最危险后果便会开始显现。
Just over a half-trillion tons have already been burned since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, and at the rate energy consumption is growing, the trillionth ton will be burned sometime around 2040, according to calculations by Myles R. Allen, a scientist at the University of Oxford and one of the authors of the new report. More than three trillion tons of carbon are still left in the ground as fossil fuels.
牛津大学的(University of Oxford)科学家迈尔斯·R·艾伦(Myles R. Allen)是新报告的作者之一。根据他的测算，工业革命开始后，已燃烧的碳略微高出了5000亿吨，如果按照目前能源消耗的增长率继续下去，将在2040年前后达到1万亿吨的燃烧量。目前，有3万多亿吨的碳仍以化石燃料的形式埋藏在地下。
Once the trillion-ton budget is exhausted, companies that wanted to keep burning fossil fuels would have to come up with ways to capture carbon dioxide and store it underground. In the United States, the Obama administration is moving forward with rules that would essentially require such technology, which is likely to be costly, for any future coal-burning power plants; the president’s Republican opponents have accused him of waging a “war on coal.”
一旦耗尽1万亿吨的预算，想要继续燃烧化石燃料的企业就得想方设法进行碳捕集，并将之封存在地下。在美国，奥巴马政府正推动相关监管条例，基本上将要求未来所有的燃煤发电厂采用此类技术，而这种技术本身可能成本颇高。反对奥巴马的共和党人指责他“向煤炭开战”。
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a worldwide committee of hundreds of scientists that issues major reports every five or six years, advising governments on the latest knowledge on climate change. 
IPCC是一个由数百名科学家组成的全球性组织，每五或六年发布一次重大报告，就气候变化方面的最新知识向各国政府提供建议。
The group has now issued five major reports since 1990, each of them finding greater certainty that the world is warming and greater likelihood that human activity is the chief cause. The new report finds a 95 to 100 percent chance that most of the warming of recent decades is human-caused, up from the 90 to 100 percent chance cited in the last report, in 2007.
委员会日前发布的是1990年以来的第五份主要评估报告。每份报告都更加确定地发现地球正在变暖，而且认为人类是主要原因的可能性也越来越大。新报告得出结论，过去几十年的变暖由人类造成的几率为95%到100%；而2007年报告中采用的数据为90%到100%。
But the new document also acknowledges that climate science still contains uncertainties, including the likely magnitude of the warming for a given level of emissions, the rate at which the ocean will rise, and the likelihood that plants and animals will be driven to extinction. The scientists emphasized, however, that those uncertainties cut in both directions and the only way to limit the risk is to limit emissions.
不过，新报告也承认，气候科学仍然存在一些不确定性，比如特定排放水平下可能的致暖效应、海平面上升的速率，以及导致动植物灭绝的几率。虽说如此，科学家们强调，此类不确定性有可能往正反两方向发展，而控制风险的唯一途径就是控制排放。
Climate-skeptic organizations assailed the new report as alarmist even before it was published.
新报告尚未面世之前，就有怀疑气候变化的组织抨击它危言耸听。
The Heartland Institute, a Chicago organization, issued a document last week saying that any additional global warming would likely be limited to a few tenths of a degree and that this “would not represent a climate crisis.”
位于芝加哥的哈特兰研究所(The Heartland Institute)上周发表了一份文件，宣称任何进一步的全球变暖都很可能仅限于零点几度，而这“并不意味着气候危机”。
In Washington, President Obama’s science adviser, John P. Holdren, cited increased scientific confidence “that the kinds of harm already being experienced from climate change will continue to worsen unless and until comprehensive and vigorous action to reduce emissions is undertaken worldwide.”
在华盛顿，奥巴马总统的科学顾问约翰·P·霍德伦(John P. Holdren)援引科学置信水平的提高称，“人们感知到的气候变化的种种危害将进一步恶化，除非全球采取全面而有力的行动来减少排放。”
Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, spoke to delegates at the meeting on Friday by video link, declaring his intention to call a meeting of heads of state in 2014 to push such a treaty forward. The last such meeting, in Copenhagen in 2009, ended in disarray.
周五的时候，联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)通过视频连线向与会代表发表了讲话。他宣布，自己有意召集各国元首在2014年会面，推动国际协议取得进展。上次此类会议是2009年在哥本哈根举行的，不过以混乱收场。