United Nations members voted decisively on Tuesday for a groundbreaking resolution that condemns North Korea for human rights abuses and recommends possible prosecution for crimes against humanity at the International Criminal Court.
周二，联合国成员国以决定性优势，投票通过了一项具有突破意义的决议。该决议谴责朝鲜侵犯人权，并建议将朝鲜提交国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court)，以反人类的罪名对其提起诉讼。
The resolution, voted on at a packed session of the General Assembly committee that oversees human rights issues, was the strongest action ever taken by a United Nations body to address abuses in North Korea, one of the world’s most isolated and opaque countries.
这项决议的表决是联合国大会(General Assembly)一个负责人权问题的委员会，在一次议程紧密的会议上举行的。它是联合国机构为应对朝鲜践踏人权的问题，迄今采取的最强硬举措。朝鲜是世界上最孤立，外界了解最少的国家之一。
The approval — 111 in favor and 19 opposed, with 55 abstentions — brushed aside protests by North Korea and a handful of sympathizers, including Cuba, Iran, Venezuela and Belarus, who contended that the resolution was part of a politically motivated agenda orchestrated by North Korea’s enemies, notably the United States.
该决议以111票赞成，19票反对，55票弃权的表决结果得到了通过，尽管朝鲜和古巴、伊朗、委内瑞拉及白俄罗斯等几个同情朝鲜的国家投了反对票。这些国家声称，该决议是朝鲜的敌人——尤其是美国——精心安排、具有政治动机的议程的部分内容。
The vote came nine months after a United Nations investigative panel concluded that North Korea’s leaders could be held responsible for egregious crimes, including systematic killing, starvation and torture in a penal system that has incarcerated tens of thousands.
九个月前，联合国的一个调查小组认定，朝鲜领导人应该为刑罚体系中系统性的杀戮、饥荒和折磨等严重罪行负责，该体系中监禁了数万人。
The panel’s 400-page report recommended that the Security Council refer North Korea to the International Criminal Court at The Hague, where top North Korean officials, including Kim Jong-un, its 31-year-old leader, could be prosecuted for crimes against humanity.
该调查小组提交了长达400页的报告，建议安理会将朝鲜移交给海牙的国际刑事法院处理，包括31岁的金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在内的朝鲜高层领导人可能会在该法院受到起诉，罪名是反人类罪。
Approval of the resolution came after committee members defeated an amendment presented by Cuba seeking to delete paragraphs in the provision that could lead to prosecution of North Korea at the International Criminal Court.
在决议通过之前，人权委员会成员国否决了古巴提交的修正案。古巴力图删除决议中可能导致朝鲜在国际刑事法院遭到起诉的段落。