UNITED NATIONS —Dire poverty has dropped sharply, and just as many girls as boys are now enrolled in primary schools around the world. Simple measures like installing bed nets have prevented some six million deaths from malaria. But nearly one billion people still defecate in the open, endangering the health of many others.
联合国——极端贫困率已大幅下降，全球入读小学的女童人数和男童人数持平。诸如使用蚊帐这样的简单措施，已经避免大约600万人死于疟疾。但近十亿人依然露天便溺，危及其他很多人的健康。
These are among the findings that the United Nations released Monday as part of a final report on the successes and failures of the Millennium Development Goals, a set of targets established 15 years ago to improve the lives of the poor.
联合国周一公布的上述研究结果，是一份介绍千年发展目标(Millennium Development Goals)成败的最终报告的一部分。千年发展目标是15年前制定的一系列目标，旨在改善贫困人口的生活。
“The report confirms that the global efforts to achieve the goals have saved millions of lives and improved conditions for millions more around the world,” the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, said Monday as he released the report in Oslo.
“报告证实，全球为实现这些目标而采取的行动，拯救了全世界数百万人的生命，改善了数百万人的生活条件，”联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)周一在奥斯陆公布该报告时说。
In fact, though, how much of those gains can be attributed to the goals is unknown. The sharp reductions in extreme poverty are due largely to the economic strides made by one big country, China. Likewise, some of the biggest shortfalls can be attributed to a handful of countries that remain very far behind. In India, for example, an estimated 600 million people defecate in the open, heightening the risk of serious disease, especially for children.
但实际上，并不清楚这些成就中有多少应归功于千年发展目标。极端贫困率的大幅下降，在很大程度上是因为中国这个大国取得的经济进步。同样，一些最大的不足，也可以归咎于少数几个仍然非常落后的国家。比如，在印度，估计有6亿人露天便溺，增加了患重病的风险，特别是对儿童来说。
Experts said the most important contribution made by the Millennium Development Goals was establishing yardsticks for measuring what countries have and have not done for their people — not just in broad-brush economic indicators but in concrete measures of well-being, like how many women die in childbirth or how many children are clinically malnourished.
专家称，千年发展目标最重要的贡献，是制定了一个参考标准，衡量国家为民众做了什么，以及没做什么。它们不仅包括宽泛的经济指标，还有具体的民生标准，如有多少女性死于分娩，或多少孩子被临床诊断为营养不良。
“It’s a data revolution, and that’s important in and of itself,” said Nancy Birdsall, the president of the Center for Global Development in Washington. “It has changed the norms of what development is about.”
“它是一场数据革命，这本身就颇为重要，”华盛顿全球发展中心(Center for Global Development)总裁南茜·伯索尔(Nancy Birdsall)说。“它改变了人们对发展的惯常理解。”
The findings in the report are likely to figure in contentious debates this summer over the United Nations’ next set of development goals, which world leaders are scheduled to adopt by September. A draft of those goals includes 169 targets that would require huge amounts of aid money to meet and would raise a host of tricky political issues about global trade and climate change.
今年夏天围绕联合国的下一批发展目标而展开的争论中，可能会引述这份报告中的结果。世界各国领导人预定于9月通过相关目标。目前的草案包括169项目标，这些目标需要大量援助资金才能实现，并且可能会引发诸多棘手的政治问题，如涉及全球贸易和气候变化的问题。
In releasing the report, United Nations officials celebrated meeting some of the goals. For instance, one of the targets was to halve the share of the world’s population living in extreme poverty by 2015, but the actual decline was steeper: 14 percent of people in the developing world are extremely poor now, compared with 47 percent in 1990. China did the most, reducing the share of its people in extreme poverty to just 4 percent this year, from 61 percent in 1990.
联合国官员发布该报告是为了庆祝部分目标的实现。比如，目标之一是到2015年，让全世界生活在极端贫困中的人口比例减半，但实际的减少幅度比这还高：目前发展中世界的极端贫困人口占14%，而在1990年，这一比例为47%。中国是下降幅度最大的，其极端贫困人口比例从1990年的61%，下降到了今年仅4%的水平。
Other targets were missed, including those to reduce child mortality and women’s deaths in childbirth each by two-thirds, although progress was made on both fronts.
其他一些目标未能实现，包括让儿童死亡率和女性难产死亡率分别降低三分之二，不过这两个领域都取得了一定的进步。
Malaria has been made a far less deadly scourge than it was in 2000, when the targets were set, with the mortality rate down by 58 percent, the report said. Fewer children are dying of measles than in 2000, but measles vaccination coverage has stalled, the report said, and 21.6 million children were not fully immunized in 2013. Most measles deaths were concentrated in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, where the report called for greater investments in public health.
报告称，同制定目标时的2000年相比，疟疾的危害远没那么严重了。疟疾死亡率下降了58%。相比于2000年，死于麻疹的儿童人数减少了，但报告称，麻疹疫苗的覆盖率停滞不前。2013年，未完全接种的儿童人数达2160万。麻疹死亡病例大部分集中在撒哈拉以南非洲和南亚。报告呼吁这两个地区加大对公共卫生的投资。
South Asia also accounts for the highest levels of child malnutrition, with 28 percent of children who are younger than 5 classified as “moderately or severely underweight.”
南亚也是儿童营养不良水平最高的地方。那里28%的5岁以下儿童被归为“体重轻度或严重不达标”。
Jobs are not keeping pace with population growth in either rich or poor countries, an especially acute challenge for countries like India that have ballooning populations of young people in need of work.
无论是穷国或富国，就业岗位和人口增长都不同步。对于那些有大量年轻人需要工作的国家，如印度，这是一个尤为艰巨的挑战。
One of the starkest failures acknowledged in the report concerned gender equity. Women are more likely than men to be poor, according to the report, and women’s participation in the global paid labor force has inched up only very slowly.
报告中承认的最明显的失败涉及性别平等。从该报告来看，女性贫穷的可能性高于男性，并且女性在全球有偿劳动力大军中所占的比例，增加得非常缓慢。
Critics say that setting global targets alone is not very instructive.
批评人士称，只制定全球目标的益处不是非常大。