UNITED NATIONS — North Korea has been shipping supplies to the Syrian government that could be used in the production of chemical weapons, United Nations experts contend.
联合国——联合国专家认为，朝鲜一直在向叙利亚政府运送可用于生产化学武器的物资。
The evidence of a North Korean connection comes as the United States and other countries have accused the Syrian government of using chemical weapons on civilians, including recent attacks on civilians in the Damascus suburb of eastern Ghouta using what appears to have been chlorine gas.
朝鲜牵涉其中的证据到来之际，正值美国等国指责叙利亚政府对平民使用化学武器，包括前不久在大马士革郊区古塔东部对平民的袭击，当时用的似乎是氯气。
The supplies from North Korea include acid-resistant tiles, valves and thermometers, according to a report by U.N. investigators. North Korean missile technicians have also been spotted working at known chemical weapons and missile facilities inside Syria, according to the report, which was written by a panel of experts who looked at North Korea’s compliance with U.N. sanctions.
联合国调查人员的一份报告显示，朝鲜运送的物资包括耐酸瓷砖、阀门和温度计。这份报告还称，在叙利亚境内已知的化学武器和导弹设施里，发现有朝鲜的导弹技术人员在工作。该报告是由一个观察朝鲜对联合国制裁服从情况的专家小组撰写的。
The report highlights the potential danger posed by any such trade between Syria and North Korea, which could allow Syria to maintain its chemical weapons while also providing North Korea with cash for its nuclear and missile programs.
该报告强调了叙利亚和朝鲜之间任何此类交易可能构成的潜在危险，叙利亚可能因此得以维持自己的化学武器储备，同时也为朝鲜的核武器和导弹计划提供了资金。
The possible chemical weapons components were part of at least 40 previously unreported shipments by North Korea to Syria between 2012 and 2017 of prohibited ballistic missile parts and materials that could be used for both military and civilian purposes, according to the report, which has not been publicly released but which was reviewed by The New York Times.
据该报告称，可能的化学武器部件是朝鲜从2012年至2017年向叙利亚运送的至少40批未报告的禁用弹道导弹部件和原材料的一部分，它们可以用于军事和民用目的。该报告尚未公布，但《纽约时报》得以查阅。
Neither the report’s authors nor members of the U.N. Security Council who have seen it would comment, and neither would the U.S. mission to the international agency.
该报告的作者以及看过该报告的联合国安理会成员都不愿发表评论，美国驻联合国代表团也不愿发表评论。
It is unclear when, or even whether, the report will be released.
目前尚不清楚该报告何时甚至是否会发布。
“I don’t know about its publication date, if any,” Stéphane Dujarric, a U.N. spokesman, told reporters Tuesday in response to queries. Asked to comment on the report, he said, “I think the overarching message is that all member states have a duty and responsibility to abide by the sanctions that are in place.”
“我不知道它的公布日期以及是否会公布，”联合国发言人斯特凡·杜加里克(Stéphane Dujarric)周二在回复询问时对记者们说。他在被要求对这份报告进行评论时表示，“我认为最重要的信息是，所有成员国都有义务和责任遵守现行的制裁措施。”
The eight experts who make up the panel all come from different countries and possess specific expertise in areas such as weapons of mass destruction, maritime transport and customs controls. Since 2010, the panel has had a mandate from the Security Council to investigate possible sanctions violations by North Korea and present its findings in an annual report.
报告组的八名专家来自不同的国家，他们拥有大规模杀伤性武器、海上运输以及海关管制等领域的专业知识。自2010年以来，该小组获得安理会的授权，调查朝鲜可能违反制裁的情况，并在年度报告中提交调查结果。
Though experts who viewed the report said the evidence it cited did not prove definitively that there was current, continuing collaboration between North Korea and Syria on chemical weapons, they said it did provide the most detailed account to date of efforts to circumvent sanctions intended to curtail the military advancement of both countries.
尽管看过该报告的专家们认为，它引用的证据并不能确切证明朝鲜和叙利亚目前仍在不断就化学武器进行合作，但他们表示，它确实提供了迄今为止对规避制裁活动具体到日期的最详细描述。制裁旨在遏制两国的军事发展。
The report, which is more than 200 pages long, includes copies of contracts between North Korean and Syrian companies as well as bills of lading indicating the types of materials shipped. Much information was provided by unidentified U.N. member states.
这份长达200多页的报告包括朝鲜和叙利亚的许多公司之间的合同副本，以及表明所运物资类型的提单。许多资料是由匿名的联合国会员国提供的。
The military-related cooperation, if confirmed, indicates major shortcomings in the international effort to isolate both countries. The shipments would have eluded detection even though both nations are subject to highly restrictive sanctions, and are under the intense scrutiny of U.S. and other spy services.
如果得到证实，那么这些与军事相关的合作表明，国际社会孤立这两个国家的努力存在重大漏洞。尽管两国都受到高度限制性的制裁，而且受到美国等国间谍机构的严密监视，但这些运送还是没有被发现。
North Korea’s relationship with Syria takes up one section of the report, which also documents the many ways the government of North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un, has tried to circumvent sanctions. It describes how North Korea uses a complex web of shell companies and sympathetic foreign citizens to gain access to international financing, employs sophisticated cyber operations to steal military secrets and enlists its own diplomats in smuggling operations.
该报告的其中一个部分专门讲述朝鲜与叙利亚的关系，报告还记录了朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)的政府试图绕过制裁的许多方式。它陈述了朝鲜如何利用复杂的空壳公司网络和同情朝鲜的外国公民获取国际融资，利用复杂的网络操作窃取军事机密，并让自己的外交官参与走私活动。
The sanctions, it says, have yet to be matched “by the requisite political will, international coordination, prioritization and resource allocation necessary to drive effective implementation.”
该报告表示，制裁没有获得“实现有效实施所必需的政治意愿、国际协作、优先地位和资源分配”。