A special United Nations investigator appointed to examine human rights abuses in North Korea expressed deep concern on Wednesday about what he described as the country’s systematic deployment of workers overseas for what amounts to forced labor.
周三，受命调查朝鲜侵犯人权情况的联合国特别报告员称，该国系统性地在海外部署工作人员构成了强制劳动，并表示深感担忧。
The investigator, Marzuki Darusman, an Indonesian lawyer and former attorney general appointed to his post by the United Nations Human Rights Council in 2010, said in his latest assessment that more than 50,000 North Korean workers are now toiling abroad, mainly in China and Russia but also in at least 15 other countries in Africa, the Middle East and South Asia. They work in the construction, mining, logging and textile industries.
名为马祖基·达鲁斯曼(Marzuki Darusman)的这位报告员是印度尼西亚的一名律师，曾担任总检察长。2010年，达鲁斯曼被联合国人权理事会(United Nations Human Rights Council)任命为朝鲜人权状况特别报告员。在最新评估中，达鲁斯曼称当前有5万余名朝鲜人在国外辛苦工作，主要是在中国和俄罗斯，但也有人在非洲、中东和南亚的另外至少15个国家。他们从事着建筑、采矿、伐木和纺织业。
Mr. Darusman said much of their earnings were taken by the North Korean government, which is in severe need of foreign currency because of international sanctions that restrict its financial activities. He added that North Korea made $1.2 billion to $2.3 billion a year from these workers, who do not know the details of their employment contracts, are under constant surveillance by North Korean security personnel and are sometimes required to work 20 hours a day, with only one or two rest days a month.
达鲁斯曼称，他们赚的钱很多都被朝鲜政府拿走了。因为金融活动受国际制裁的限制，朝鲜政府现在极需要外汇。他接着表示，朝鲜每年能从这些工人身上赚取12亿到23亿美元。他们不知道劳动合同的细节，时刻受朝鲜安全人员的监视，有时候还被要求一天工作20小时，一个月只能休息一两天。
Mr. Darusman said he based his assertions on studies by civil society organizations that had conducted interviews with former overseas workers. He also said the North Korean government, sensitive to foreign news media scrutiny of these workers, had warned them not to complain publicly or they would face punishments.
达鲁斯曼说，他的结论是以公民社会组织进行的研究为基础的。这些组织采访了曾在国外工作过的人。他还表示，外国新闻媒体对于这些工人的关注，会让朝鲜政府十分敏感，因此朝鲜警告他们不要公开抱怨，否则就会受到惩罚。
Mr. Darusman has been outspoken in his criticisms of North Korea’s ruling Kim family, which was implicated in a 2014 United Nations report of widespread rights abuses. North Korea has never allowed Mr. Darusman to visit the country and has described his reporting as fabrications and part of what it calls a United States conspiracy to destabilize the country.
达鲁斯曼在批评统治朝鲜的金氏家族上向来直言不讳。2014年一份有关广泛侵权情况的联合国报告涉及到了金氏家族。朝鲜从未允许达鲁斯曼访问该国，并称他的报告捏造事实，是其所谓的美国破坏该国稳定的阴谋中的一部分。