UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations Security Council on Tuesday unanimously adopted a resolution to impose sanctions on those who disrupt efforts to restore peace in South Sudan, but it stopped short of barring the warring factions from buying more arms.
联合国——周二，联合国安理会一致通过了一项决议，决定对那些扰乱南苏丹恢复和平努力的人员进行制裁，但其中并未禁止交战各方购买更多武器。
The resolution passed as the rival factions faced a Thursday deadline for reaching a deal at peace talks in Ethiopia, and as South Sudan’s army, under mounting pressure, agreed to investigate allegations that a pro-government militia had abducted dozens of children.
周四是敌对各方在埃塞俄比亚的和平谈判中达成协议的最后期限。此外，在越来越大的压力下，南苏丹政府军同意调查亲政府的一个民兵组织被控绑架数十名儿童一事。决议就是在这样的背景下得到通过的。
Fighting between forces loyal to President Salva Kiir and rebels allied with his former vice president, Riek Machar, plunged South Sudan, the world’s youngest nation, into a civil war in December 2013 that has killed tens of thousands, displaced two million civilians and left a trail of rape and execution.
南苏丹是世界上最年轻的国家。2013年12月，忠于总统萨尔瓦·基尔(Salva Kiir)的部队和与曾在他手下担任副总统的里克·马沙尔(Riek Machar)结盟的反叛部队爆发冲突，使得该国陷入内战。战争已导致成千上万人死亡，200万平民流离失所，奸淫和处决的暴行频发。
The Council’s resolution does not immediately impose sanctions. Rather, it sets up a panel to identify people who are responsible for undermining the peace efforts, including by recruiting child soldiers and committing serious human rights abuses. It proposes travel bans and an asset freeze for those people, and it offers the possibility of an arms embargo further down the road.
安理会的这份决议并没有立即实施制裁，而是设立了一个委员会，来确定谁应对破坏和平努力的行为负责。这些行为包括招募儿童兵及严重践踏人权。决议提出要对这些人颁发旅行禁令、冻结资产，并为将来实施武器禁运的可能性打下了基础。
The United States drafted the measure. China, which traditionally shies away from punitive measures like sanctions, voted in favor of it. China has significant oil investments in the country.
该决议由美国起草。一向回避制裁等惩罚性措施的中国也投了赞成票。中国在南苏丹拥有大量石油投资。
South Sudan’s ambassador to the United Nations, Francis Deng, said he rued the timing of the measure, which he called “counterproductive” at a time when peace negotiations were underway. “What the president and government of South Sudan need is encouragement, not condemnation,” Mr. Deng said.
南苏丹常驻联合国代表弗朗西斯·登格(Francis Deng)对决议出炉的时机表示遗憾。目前和平谈判正在进行，而他认为此时通过决议只会“适得其反”。“南苏丹总统和政府需要的是鼓励，而非谴责，”登格说。
The Council measure passed just hours after the chief of South Sudan’s army announced an investigation into allegations that a pro-government militia had abducted dozens of schoolchildren. The United Nations Children’s Fund, or Unicef, initially reported that 89 children had been abducted from a village in Upper Nile State as they were taking their school exams.
安理会的决议得到通过之前的几小时，南苏丹军方总负责人刚刚宣布要对亲政府的一个民兵组织被控绑架数十名学童一事进行调查。联合国儿童基金会（United Nations Children's Fund，简称Unicef）最初通报，上尼罗州一座村庄的89名儿童在学校参加考试期间遭到绑架。
The agency later revised the figure and said hundreds might have been taken and forced to join a pro-government militia led by Johnson Oloni. Some were as young as 13, the agency said. It appealed to the government to gain their released.
该机构后来对数据进行了修正，声称可能有数百名儿童被绑走，被迫加入由约翰逊·奥洛尼(Johnson Oloni)领导的一个亲政府民兵组织。该机构表示有一些孩子只有13岁，并已呼吁政府将他们救出。
In a statement Tuesday, Col. Philip Aguer, the spokesman for the South Sudanese Army, known as the Sudanese People’s Liberation Army, said his forces were committed to being “child free” and would look into the allegations.
南苏丹军队——苏丹人民解放军(Sudanese People’s Liberation Army)——发言人菲利普·阿古尔上校(Philip Aguer)周二发表声明称，军方致力于“杜绝未成年人入伍”，会对此事展开调查。
Unicef said it believed that more than 12,000 South Sudanese children had been recruited into armed groups since the conflict began.
联合国儿童基金会表示，他们认为，自冲突爆发以来，已有逾1.2万名南苏丹未成年人被招入武装组织。
Those who conscript children to fight could face targeted sanctions, according to the Council’s resolution. The American ambassador to the United Nations, Samantha Power, described the measure as a way to press the rival leaders to make a deal. Directing her remarks to the South Sudanese factions, she said, “You will be held to account, now, as we urge you to compromise to reach an agreement, and later, when you are considering whether to follow through on its terms.”
安理会的决议称，招募儿童兵的人将会面临针对性的制裁。美国常驻联合国代表萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)称，该决议是一种迫使敌对双方领导人达成协议的方法。鲍尔对南苏丹各个派系喊话，“无论是现在我们敦促你们做出让步来达成协议的时候，还是之后你们考率是否履行条款的时候，你们都要接受问责。”
The Chinese envoy, Liu Jieyi, called on the two sides to “stop fighting immediately.” Beijing has sent the first of what is to be a full infantry battalion for the United Nations peacekeeping mission in South Sudan.
中国常驻联合国代表刘结一呼吁双方“立即停止战斗”。北京方面已经派出了首个步兵营参与联合国在南苏丹的维和任务。