SEOUL, South Korea — Fully armed North Korean troops violated the truce that halted the 1950-53 Korean War when they fired weapons across the border last week while chasing a soldier defecting to South Korea, the United Nations Command said on Wednesday.
韩国首尔——周三，联合国司令部(United Nations Command)表示，上周，全副武装的朝鲜军队违反1950年至1953年朝鲜战争的停战协定，在追捕一名叛逃至韩国的士兵时，向边界另一侧开火。
One of the North Korean chasers briefly crossed the borderline before turning back in a hurry, another violation of the Korean War armistice, the command said.
该司令部称，朝鲜的一名追捕者短暂越过了边界，而后匆忙返回，这也违反了朝鲜战争的停战协定。
The American-led United Nations Command, which oversees the armistice, notified the North Korean People’s Army of its findings and demanded a meeting to discuss ways to prevent future violations, the command said in a statement.
由美国主导、负责监督停战协定执行的联合国司令部在一份声明中表示，它已向朝鲜人民军通报了自己发现的这一情况，并要求召开会议，讨论如何防止未来再发生此类违规行为。
The command also released closed-circuit television footage that illustrated the North Korean’s dramatic defection through the Joint Security Area north of Seoul, the South Korean capital, on Nov. 13. It was a close escape for the soldier, who bolted toward the border line just yards ahead of former comrades who had started to shoot.
该司令部还发布了一段闭路电视录像，展示了11月13日发生在韩国首都首尔以北的联合安全区(Joint Security Area)的叛逃情况。那名士兵在几名前战友前面几码处飞速向边界跑去，战友们立刻开始向他射击，他侥幸逃脱。
At the signing of the Korean War armistice, a 2.5-mile-wide demilitarized zone, or DMZ, was created to keep the warring sides apart, and the heavily guarded Joint Security Area serves as the only point along the DMZ where troops from both sides face off, separated by only a few feet. They could also meet there to discuss enforcing the truce.
签署朝鲜战争停战协定时设立了一个2.5英里宽的非军事区，将交战双方隔开，戒备森严的联合安全区是非军事区中唯一有双方军队对峙的地点，相隔仅数英尺。他们也可以在那里开会讨论如何执行停火协定。
According to the footage, the defector sped a drab, olive-colored military jeep along a tree-lined road and into the Joint Security Area after crossing a North Korean landmark known as the 72-Hour Bridge.
录像显示，这名叛逃者驾驶着一辆暗淡的橄榄色军用吉普车沿着一条两侧全是树木的道路飞速行驶，在穿过一座名为“72小时桥”的朝鲜地标后，进入联合安全区。
When the vehicle did not stop at a North Korean guard post and drove into the North Korean side of the Joint Security Area, troops wearing helmets and carrying sidearms and rifles poured out of their buildings. The jeep got stuck near the border line, a white concrete marker barely taller than a brick, which bisects the two sides of the Joint Security Area.
这辆车没有在朝鲜哨所前停下，驶入了联合安全区的朝鲜那一侧，戴着头盔、携带手枪和步枪的士兵从建筑物中涌出来。吉普车被困在边界线附近。将联合安全区一分为二的边界线是一个白色混凝土标志物，只比一块砖头高一点。
The defector got out and dashed for life across the line, while four North Korean soldiers, one of them lying on the ground, unleashed a hail of bullets to stop him.
这名叛逃者从车中出来，拼命穿过了边界线，四名朝鲜士兵——其中一人趴在地上——连续发射子弹阻止他。
In the next segments of the footage, the North Korean defector lay motionless among leaves beside a wall 55 yards south of the border.
在录像的下一段中，这名朝鲜叛逃者一动不动地躺在边界以南55码处一道墙后的树叶中。
Two South Korean Army sergeants crawled to him and dragged him to safety, while North Korean soldiers watched them from their guard post.
两名韩国陆军军士爬到他身边，把他拖到了安全地带，朝鲜士兵则从自己的哨所监视着他们。
A United States Army medical helicopter evacuated the defector to a South Korean hospital, where he has gone through a series of surgeries to treat at least five gunshot wounds. When doctors opened his abdomen to patch up the damaged digestive tract, they found it riddled with parasitic worms. Analysts considered the discovery evidence of the dire conditions in North Korea, including poor hygiene and nutrition.
一架美国陆军医疗直升机将这名叛逃者送往韩国的一家医院，他在那里接受了一系列手术，治疗至少5处枪伤。当医生打开他的腹部、修补受损的消化道时，发现里面满是寄生虫。分析人士认为，这一发现证明朝鲜条件恶劣，包括卫生条件不佳，营养不良。
The South’s Yonhap news agency reported Tuesday that the soldier had woken up and begun talking, and Wednesday Dr. Lee Cook-jong, a lead surgeon, confirmed that he was conscious and “is not going to die.”
周二，韩国联合通讯社(Yonhap)报道称，这名士兵已经苏醒，开始说话。周三，主治外科医生李国宗(Lee Cook-jong)证实，这名士兵已经恢复意识，并且“性命无虞”。
The soldier — whose name, rank and other information have not been released — is still too weak to undergo a debriefing, doctors and officials said.
医生和官员们称，这名士兵依然非常虚弱，无法做出陈述。他的名字和军衔等信息尚未公布。
Army Gen. Vincent K. Brooks, an American who leads the United Nations Command, said his troops had acted “in a manner that is consistent with the armistice agreement, namely — to respect the demilitarized zone and to take actions that deter a resumption of hostilities.”
联合国司令部指挥官、美国陆军上将文森特·K·布鲁克斯(Vincent K. Brooks)表示，他的部队采取的行动“符合停战协定，即尊重非军事区，并采取行动遏制敌对行动的重新开始”。
He added, “The armistice agreement was challenged, but it remains in place.”
他还说，“停战协定受到了挑战，但仍然有效。”
North Korea has not yet commented on the defection. It took place amid heightened tensions over the North’s nuclear and missile tests and an exchange of warlike threats and personal insults between President Trump and the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.
朝鲜尚未对此次叛逃发表评论。这一事件发生之时，朝鲜的核武器和导弹试验正导致局势高度紧张，特朗普总统和朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)互相发表了接近战争威胁的言论和人身侮辱。
More than 30,000 North Koreans have fled to the South since a widespread famine hit the impoverished North in the late 1990s. Nearly all of them have traveled through China. But a few North Korean soldiers and civilians have defected by crossing the DMZ, undeterred by minefields, sentry posts and tall fences topped with barbed wire, some electrified.
自20世纪90年代末一贫如洗的朝鲜爆发大规模饥荒以来，已有3万多名朝鲜人逃至韩国。他们几乎都是通过中国逃离的。但也有少量朝鲜士兵和平民通过穿越非军事区叛逃。非军事区有地雷和哨所，以及顶上安装铁丝网的高栅栏，有些铁丝网还带电。
In 1984, a gunfight erupted at the Joint Security Area when a citizen from what was then the Soviet Union dashed across the border to defect to the West. North Korean troops opened fire to stop him, and South Korean border guards fired back. One South Korean soldier and three North Korean border guards were killed.
1984年，一名试图逃亡西方世界的苏联公民冲过边界，联合安全区因此爆发了一场枪战。朝鲜军队开火阻止他，韩国边防人员进行了回击。事件造成一名韩国士兵和三名朝鲜边防人员死亡。
A North Korean soldier last defected through the area in 2007.
上一次发生朝鲜士兵通过该地区逃离的事件是在2007年。