Almost everybody has heard of the United Nations. But how many people know what it actually does? Or how it works? Or why, as world leaders gather to kick off the 71st session of the United Nations General Assembly, the institution has struggled to live up to the promise of its founders: making the world a better, more peaceful place?
几乎每个人都听说过联合国(United Nations)。但有多少人知道它到底是干什么、如何运转的？或者知道为什么在世界各地的领导人汇聚一堂，为第71届联合国大会(United Nations General Assembly)拉开帷幕之际，该组织在“让世界更美好、更和平”这一承诺的履行上困难重重？
Birth of the United Nations: When, Where and Why
联合国的诞生：何时、何地、为什么
The United Nations Charter was signed at a conference in San Francisco in June 1945, led by four countries: Britain, China, the Soviet Union and the United States.
1945年6月，在旧金山的一次会议上，英中苏美四国领头签署了《联合国宪章》(United Nations Charter)。
When the Charter went into effect on Oct. 24 of that year, a global war had just ended. Much of Africa and Asia was still ruled by colonial powers.
当宪章在那年10月24日生效的时候，一场世界大战刚刚结束。非洲和亚洲的许多地区仍处于殖民列强的统治之下。
After fierce negotiations, 50 nations agreed to a Charter that begins, “We the peoples of the United Nations.”
经过激烈的谈判，50个国家就一部以“我联合国人民”开头的宪章达成一致。
Why is that opening line notable? Because today, the United Nations can, to some, seem to serve the narrow national interests of its 193 member countries — especially the most powerful ones — and not ordinary citizens.
开头的这行字为何引人注目？因为在今天的一些人看来，联合国也许是为193个成员国中的少数国家，尤其是最具影响力的大国服务的，而非服务于普通公民。
These parochial priorities can stand in the way of fulfilling the first two pledges of the Charter: to end “the scourge of war” and to regain “faith in fundamental human rights.”
这类狭隘的优先级安排，对履行宪章头两项承诺——终结“战祸”，重申“基本人权”——会构成障碍。
High Ideals on Human Rights
人权方面的崇高理想
In 1948, the United Nations proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. These include the right to not be enslaved, the right to free expression and the right to seek from other countries asylum from persecution.
1948年，联合国发布了《世界人权宣言》(Universal Declaration of Human Rights)。其中涉及免受奴役的权利，言论自由的权利，以及在其他国家寻求庇护以免受迫害的权利。
However, many of the rights expressed — to education, to equal pay for equal work, to nationality — remain unrealized.
不过，宣言提及的许多权利——关于教育、同工同酬以及国籍等——至今仍未实现。
General Assembly: Prominent Stage, Limited Powers
联合国大会：重要的舞台、受限的权力
Each fall, the opening session of the United Nations General Assembly becomes the stage where presidents and prime ministers give speeches that can be soaring or clichéd — or they can deliver long, incoherent tirades, such as the one given by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan strongman, in 2009.
每年秋天，各国的总统、主席、首相们都会在联合国大会开幕式上亮相，发表或慷慨激昂或充满陈词滥调的演讲，也有冗长而又东拉西扯的那种，譬如利比亚铁腕领袖穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Muammar el-Qaddafi)上校2009年的那番讲话。
The event offers plenty of star power, but critics contend that it is little more than a glorified gabfest.
开幕式可以制造强烈的明星效应，但批评人士认为，它不过是一场冠冕堂皇的冗长会议。
For the rest of the session, the General Assembly is the arena where largely symbolic diplomatic jousts are won and lost. Hundreds of resolutions are introduced annually. While some of them earn a great deal of attention — like one in 1975 that equated Zionism with racism — they are not legally binding. (The Assembly is responsible for making some budgetary decisions.)
而在其他时间里，联合国大会堪称一个竞技场，上演着主要是象征性的外交角力，有人赢有人输。每年都有数以百计的决议被提出。尽管其中一些受到了大量关注——比如1975年的把犹太复国主义等同于种族主义的那项——但它们并不具有法律约束力。（大会负责做一些预算决策。）
In principle, nations small and large, rich and poor, have equal voice in the Assembly, with each country getting one vote. But the genuine power resides elsewhere.
原则上，国家不论大小贫富，都可以在会上平等发声，每个国家都有一票表决权。但真正的权力存在于别处。
Security Council: Powerful but Often Paralyzed
安理会：大权在握却时常瘫痪
The 15-member Security Council is by far the most powerful arm of the United Nations. It can impose sanctions, as it did against Iran over its nuclear program, and authorize military intervention, as it did against Libya in 2011.
到目前为止，拥有15个理事国的安理会(Security Council)是联合国权力最大的机构。它可以实施制裁，就像因核计划而制裁伊朗一样；它还可以批准进行军事干涉，就像在2011年批准出兵利比亚一样。
Critics say it is also the most anachronistic part of the organization. Its five permanent members are the victors of World War II: the United States, Britain, China, France and Russia. The other 10 members are elected for two-year terms, with seats set aside for different regions of the world.
批评人士称，它还是联合国最过时的一部分。它的五个常任理事国是二战的胜利者：美国、英国、中国、法国和俄罗斯。其余10个理事国经选举产生，任期两年，并且会为世界不同地区留出席位。
Efforts to expand the permanent membership of the Council to include powers that have emerged since 1945 — such as India, Japan and Germany — have been stymied. For every country that vies for a seat, rivals seek to block it.
增加安理会席位，以便把印度、日本、德国等自1945年以来崛起的大国纳入进来的努力，一直面临重重阻碍。每个争夺席位的国家，都会遭到对手的封堵。
Any member of the permanent five — or the P5, for short — can veto any measure, and each has regularly used this power to protect either itself or allies. Since 1990, the United States has cast a veto on Council resolutions 16 times, many concerning Israeli-Palestinian relations. Russia has done so 13 times, including four times over Syria.
五个常任理事国（又称“五常”）中的任何一个，都可以一票否决任何举措，并利用这项权力保护自己或自己的盟友。自从1990年以来，美国一票否决安理会决议共计16次，很多次都涉及到巴以关系。俄罗斯行使一票否决权共计13次，其中四次涉及叙利亚问题。
The Charter does allow the General Assembly to act if, because of a veto, international peace and security are threatened. But in reality, it is rarely done.
根据《联合国宪章》，如果一票否决危及了国际和平与安全，联合国大会的确可以采取行动。但事实上，它很少这样做。
Problems Keeping the Peace
阻碍实现和平的那些问题
The Security Council’s job is to maintain international peace. Its ability to do so has been severely constrained in recent years, in large part because of bitter divisions between Russia and the West.
安理会的任务是维护国际和平，但近年来它在这方面的能力严重受限，这在很大程度上是因为俄罗斯与西方之间的严重分歧。
The Council has been feckless in the face of major conflicts, particularly those in which permanent members have a stake.
面对重大冲突，尤其是与常任理事国利害攸关的冲突，安理会表现软弱。
Most recently, its starkest failure has been the handling of the conflict in Syria, with Russia backing the government of President Bashar al-Assad and the United States, Britain and France supporting some opposition groups. The Council has not only failed to halt the fighting, but has also been unable to ensure the delivery of food aid and the safety of medical workers.
最近，安理会最明显的失败表现在对叙利亚冲突的应对上。在这场冲突中，俄罗斯支持叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)领导的政府，美国、英国和法国则支持一些反对派组织。安理会不仅未能让战斗停下来，还无法确保食物援助的运送和医疗工作者的安全。
Also, North Korea, long an ally of China, has repeatedly ignored United Nations prohibitions against conducting nuclear tests.
此外，长期与中国为盟的朝鲜也多次置联合国的禁令于不顾，进行核试验。
Secretary General: Global Reach, Vague Role
联合国秘书长：触及全球、角色模糊
The Charter is vague in defining the duties of the secretary general, the United Nations’ top official. He or she is expected to show no favoritism to any particular country, but the office is largely dependent on the funding and the good will of the most powerful nations.
《联合国宪章》对联合国最高官员秘书长的职责定义言辞含糊。他或她被要求不得表现出对任何一个国家的偏袒，但这个职位在很大程度上依赖于最有影响力的国家的资金和善意。
The Security Council — notably the P5 — chooses the secretary general, by secret ballot, to serve a maximum of two five-year terms. This process makes it difficult for the role to be independent of the P5’s influence.
安理会——尤其是五常——通过不记名投票的方式选出秘书长，秘书长最多可任两届，每届任期五年。这个过程让秘书长这个角色很难独立于五常的影响之外。
The secretary general has no army to deploy, but what the position does enjoy is a bully pulpit. If the officeholder is perceived as being independent, he or she is often the only person in the world who can call warring parties to the peace table.
秘书长没有可供调遣的军队，但这个职位可以带来巨大的影响力。如果被认为独立公正，联合国秘书长通常是全世界唯一一个能让交战的各方坐到谈判桌旁的人。
The 10-year tenure of the current secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, has repeatedly revealed the limits of the office’s authority. For example, Mr. Ban was persuaded for two years in a row to keep powerful countries off a list of those whose military forces had killed and maimed children.
现任联合国秘书长潘基文(Ban Ki-moon)任期为10年，期间多次暴露出了这个职位的权力存在的局限性。比如，潘基文连续两年被说服，让强国不被列入军队杀害和致残儿童的名单。
Since 1946, eight have held the position of secretary general. All have been men. Mr. Ban’s successor will be chosen this fall.
自1946年以来共出现了八任秘书长，均为男性。潘基文的继任者将于今年秋天选出。
What’s Next: 5 Questions for the U.N.’s Future
接下来会发生什么：联合国未来的5个问题
No matter who takes over as secretary general on Jan. 1, he or she will inherit a body facing the unenviable task of demonstrating the United Nations’ relevance in a world confronting challenges that were inconceivable 70 years ago. Here are some of the questions that will determine whether the organization’s influence diminishes or grows:
无论明年1月1日接任秘书长一职的是谁，他或她接手的联合国都面临着一项不值得羡慕的任务，即在一个面临着诸多挑战的世界里，证明联合国存在的意义，那些挑战是70年前不可想象的。下面这些问题将决定该机构的影响力是减少还是增强：
■ Can the Security Council take action against countries that flout international humanitarian law? And can the P5 members of the Council look beyond their own narrow interests to find ways to end the “scourge of war”?
■ 安理会能否对公然藐视国际人道主义法律的国家采取行动？安理会的五常成员国能否跨越各自的狭隘利益，找到结束“战祸”的办法？
■ Can peacekeeping operations be repaired so the protection of civilians is ensured?
■ 维和行动能否得到纠正，以确保平民受到保护？
■ Can the United Nations persuade countries to come up with new ways to handle the new reality of mass migration?
■ 联合国能否说服各国拿出新举措，应对大规模移民的新现实？
■ Can the secretary general persuade countries to keep their promise to curb carbon emissions — and to help those suffering from the consequences of climate change?
■ 联合国秘书长能否说服各国信守承诺，控制碳排放，并帮助那些受气候变化影响的国家？
■ Can the United Nations get closer to achieving its founding mandate, to make the world a better, more peaceful place?
■ 在完成其创立时设定的任务上，联合国能否更进一步，让世界变得更美好、更和平？