Leaders from around the world have descended on New York for United Nations meetings, fancy parties, ringing speeches about helping the poor — and a big dose of hypocrisy.
全世界的领导人都来到纽约，参加联合国会议和奢华聚会，就帮助穷人发表高谈阔论，并展现大量虚伪。
And — finally! — this is one area where President Trump has shown global leadership.
而且，终于——到了一个特朗普总统表现全球领导力的领域了。
If there were an award for United Nations chutzpah, the competition would be tough, but the medal might go to Trump for warning that if necessary, “we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.” There were gasps in the hall: A forum for peace was used to threaten to annihilate a nation of 25 million people.
如果有联合国肆无忌惮奖，竞争可能会很激烈，但奖牌或许会花落特朗普，因为他警告称，如有必要，“我们别无选择，只能彻底摧毁朝鲜”。大厅里众人倒抽一口冷气：一个促进和平的场合被用来威胁摧毁一个拥有2500万人口的国家。
There also was Trump’s praise for American humanitarian aid to Yemen. Patting oneself on the back is often oafish, but in this case it was also offensive. Yemen needs aid because the U.S. is helping Saudi Arabia starve and bomb Yemeni civilians, creating what the U.N. says is the world’s largest humanitarian crisis. In other words, we are helping to create the very disaster that we’re boasting about alleviating.
还有特朗普对美国向也门提供的人道主义援助的称赞。自夸常常不合时宜，但特朗普这次不仅不合时宜，还有冒犯意味。也门需要援助是因为美国正在帮助沙特阿拉伯轰炸也门平民，断绝他们的食物来源，制造联合国所说的全球最大的人道主义危机。换句话说，我们吹嘘说自己缓解的那场灾难，正是我们参与制造的。
It was also sad to see Trump repeatedly plug “sovereignty.”
看到特朗普多次提到“主权”也令人伤感。
Speaking of Myanmar, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi skipped the U.N. meeting, after being feted last year, because it’s awkward to be a Nobel Prize winner who defends a brutal campaign of murder, rape and pillage. Many Muslim leaders in attendance, like Recep Tayyip Erdogan, did highlight the plight of the Rohingya suffering an ethnic cleansing in Myanmar. If only they were as interested in their own political prisoners!
说到缅甸，在去年受到盛情款待后，昂山素季将不参加今年的联合国会议，因为一个诺贝尔奖获得者为一场野蛮的谋杀、强奸和劫掠运动辩护的确令人尴尬。与会的很多穆斯林领导人，如雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)，倒的确强调了罗辛亚人在缅甸遭到种族清洗的困境。如果他们对自己的政治犯也这么感兴趣就好了！
Meanwhile, world leaders usually ignore places that don’t fit their narratives. Everybody pretty much shrugged at South Sudan and Burundi, both teetering on the edge of genocide; at Congo, where we’re headed for civil strife as the president attempts to cling to power; and at the “four famines”: in Nigeria, Somalia, Yemen and South Sudan. To Trump’s credit, he expressed concern Wednesday about South Sudan and Congo and said he would dispatch U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley to the region to see what can be done; let’s hope his administration provides desperately needed leadership.
与此同时，世界领导人常常忽略与自己的叙事不符的地方。几乎所有人都对濒临种族灭绝的南苏丹和布隆迪、在总统试图紧紧抓住权力不放手时面临内乱危机的刚果，以及尼日利亚、索马里、也门和南苏丹的“四大饥荒”不以为意地耸耸肩。值得称赞的是，特朗普周三表达了对南苏丹和刚果的关切，并表示他将派美国驻联合国大使尼基·黑利(Nikki Haley)前往该地区，看能做点什么。希望他领导的联邦政府能提供迫切需要的领导力。
In fairness, there are broader reasons for hope, including astonishing progress against global poverty — more than 100 million children’s lives saved since 1990. Every day, another 300,000 people worldwide get their first access to electricity, and 285,000 to clean water. Global poverty is a huge opportunity, for we now have a much better understanding of how to defeat it: resolve conflicts, invest in girls’ education, empower women, fight malnutrition, support family planning, and so on.
说句公道话，还有更多让我们心怀希望的原因，包括在消除全球贫困上取得的惊人进步。自1990年以来，已有超过一亿儿童获救。全世界每天都有30万人第一次用上电，28.5万人第一次用上干净的水。全球贫困是一个巨大的机遇，因为我们现在对如何消除它有了更好的了解：解决冲突、投资女童教育、增加女性自主权、消除营养不良、支持计划生育等。
For the first time in human history, less than 10 percent of the world’s population is living in extreme poverty, and we probably could virtually eliminate it over the next 15 years if it were a top global priority. Trump rightly hailed Pepfar, the AIDS program President George W. Bush devised, but he also has proposed sharp cuts in its funding).
人类历史上全球生活在极端贫困中的人口首次低于10%。如果成为全球头号任务，我们甚至可能在接下来的15年里几乎消除这个问题。特朗普还恰如其分地赞扬了乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)创立的艾滋病计划Pepfar，但他也提议大幅削减该计划的资金。
The progress on stopping human trafficking is also inspiring. I moderated a U.N. session on the topic, and it was heartening to see an overflow crowd engaging in a historically obscure subject, even as a new report calculated that there are 40 million people who may be called modern slaves. Prime Minister Theresa May convened perhaps the largest meeting of foreign ministers ever on human trafficking.
打击人口贩卖方面的进步同样鼓舞人心。我主持过一场有关这个话题的联合国会议，看到参与这个在历史上无人理会的话题的人多到会场容纳不下，令人感到振奋。一份新报告推测有4000万人可被称作现代奴隶。英国首相特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)主持召开了兴许是有史以来规模最大的人口贩卖主题外长会议。
We now have the tools to achieve enormous progress against these common enemies of humanity — poverty, disease, slavery — but it’s not clear we have the will. What’s striking about this moment is that we have perhaps the worst refugee crisis in 70 years, overlapping with the worst food crisis in 70 years, overlapping with risks of genocide in several countries — and anemic global leadership.
我们现在具备了在打击人类共同面临的这些敌人——贫困、疾病、奴役——上取得巨大进步的工具，但不知道我们是否有这个意愿。此刻的突出特征是我们面临的可能是70年来最严重的难民危机、加上70年来最严重的粮食危机和多个国家的种族灭绝风险，以及全球领导不力。
“There is a vacuum of leadership — moral and political — when it comes to the world’s trouble spots, from Syria to Yemen to Myanmar and beyond,” notes David Miliband, the president of the International Rescue Committee. Margot Wallstrom, Sweden’s foreign minister, agrees: “I think there’s a leadership vacuum.”
“说到全球的动荡地区，从叙利亚到也门再到缅甸和其他地区，在道德上和政治上都存在一个领导真空，”国际救援委员会(International Rescue Committee)主席戴维·米利班德(David Miliband)说。瑞典外长马戈·瓦尔施特罗姆(Margot Wallstrom)也同意这个观点：“我觉得出现了一个领导真空。”
There are exceptions: Wallstrom, U.N. Secretary General António Guterres, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and more.
也有例外：瓦尔施特罗姆、联合国秘书长安东尼奥·古特雷斯(António Guterres)和加拿大总理贾斯汀·特鲁多(Justin Trudeau)等。
But many countries are divided at home, distracted by political combat and looking increasingly inward, and in any case, the U.S. remains the indispensable superpower, and it is AWOL. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has achieved a degree of irrelevance that no one thought possible, and Trump is slashing the number of refugees accepted, cutting funds for the U.N. Population Fund and proposing huge cuts for diplomacy, peacekeeping and foreign aid (fortunately, Congress is resisting).
但很多国家内部四分五裂，被政治冲突分散了精力，越来越封闭。无论如何，美国依然是那个必不可少的超级大国，但美国擅离职守。美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)做到了一定程度的无关紧要。原本所有人都觉得这种情况是不可能出现的。特朗普正在降低接收的难民人数、削减对联合国人口基金会(United Nations Population Fund)的资助并提议大幅减少外交、维和和外国援助资金（幸运的是，国会正在反抗）。
The number that I always find most daunting is this: About one child in four on this planet is physically stunted from malnutrition. And while it is the physical stunting that we can measure, a side effect is a stunting of brain development, holding these children back, holding nations back, holding humanity back.
我一向觉得最吓人的数字是：这个星球上大约四分之一的儿童因营养不良而身体发育不良。尽管身体上的发育不良我们是可以测量的，但它的副作用之一是大脑发育不良，它阻碍这些孩子发展，阻碍国家和人类发展。
So it’s maddening to see world leaders posturing in the spotlight and patting themselves on the back while doing so little to tackle humanitarian crises that they themselves have helped create.
因此，看着世界领导人在聚光灯下故作姿态、自夸自擂，但在解决他们自己参与制造的人道主义危机上却几乎无所作为，实在令人抓狂。