UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations Security Council on Monday unanimously approved a resolution that creates the basis for international economic sanctions against Iran to be lifted, a move that incited a furious reaction in Israel and potentially sets up an angry showdown in Congress.
联合国——本周一，联合国安理会一致通过了一项决议，为解除对伊朗的国际经济制裁奠定了基础，此举激起了以色列激烈反应，并有可能在美国国会引发一次愤怒的对峙。
The 15-to-0 vote for approval of the resolution — 104 pages long including annexes and lists — was written in Vienna by diplomats who negotiated a landmark pact last week that limits Iran’s nuclear capabilities in exchange for ending the sanctions.
安理会以15比0的投票结果通过了这项决议。决议包括附件和列表一共104页，由上周在维也纳进行谈判的外交官起草，当时他们签订了一个具有里程碑意义的协议，用限制伊朗的核能力来换取对制裁的解除。
Iran has pledged to let in international monitors to inspect its facilities for the next 10 years and other measures that were devised to guarantee that its nuclear energy activities are purely peaceful.
伊朗已承诺，允许国际观察员在未来10年里视察其设施，并且遵循其他一些要求，来保证其核能活动完全是出于和平目的。
The Security Council resolution, which is legally binding, lays out the steps required only for the lifting of United Nations sanctions. It has no legal consequence on the sanctions imposed separately by the United States and the European Union.
安理会的这份决议具有法律约束力，但只规定了联合国取消制裁的步骤。对于美国和欧盟分别对伊朗实施的制裁，它没有任何法律效力。
The European Union also approved the Iran nuclear deal on Monday, putting in motion the lifting of its own sanctions, which include prohibitions on the purchase of Iranian oil. Europe will continue to prohibit the export of ballistic missile technology and sanctions related to human rights.
欧盟也在本周一批准了伊朗核协议，开始逐步解除自己实施的制裁，其中包括对伊朗石油购买禁令的解除。欧洲将继续禁止弹道导弹技术的出口，并维持与人权有关的制裁。
Diplomats have warned that if the United States Congress refuses to lift American penalties against Iran, the Iranians may renege on their commitments as well, which could result in a collapse of the entire deal.
外交官警告说，如果美国国会拒绝解除对伊朗的制裁，伊朗人可能会违背自己的承诺，而这可能会导致整个协议的崩溃。
The resolution takes effect in 90 days, a time frame negotiated in Vienna to allow Congress, where members have expressed strong distrust of the agreement, to review it. President Obama, who has staked much of his foreign policy ambitions on the Iran pact, has vowed to veto a congressional rejection of the nuclear accord.
该决议将在90天后生效，外交官在维也纳商定了这个时间框架，以便美国国会对此进行审核。国会议员们对该协议表示了极大的不信任。而伊朗协议在奥巴马总统的外交抱负中占了很大比重，他发誓，如果国会拒绝了这个协议，他就要行使否决权。
The resolution will not completely lift all Council restrictions on Iran. It maintains an arms embargo, and sets up a panel to review the import of sensitive technology on a case-by-case basis.
该决议将不会完全解除安理会对伊朗的全部限制。它会继续实施武器禁运，并且设立一个委员会，对敏感技术的进口进行逐案审查。
It also sets up a way to renew sanctions if Iran does not abide by its commitments. In the event of an unresolved dispute over Iran’s enrichment activities, the United Nations sanctions snap back automatically after 30 days. To avoid the sanctions renewal requires a vote of the Council — giving skeptics, namely the United States, an opportunity to veto it.
它还设定了一个方法，可以在伊朗不信守承诺的情况下延长制裁。如果在伊朗的铀浓缩活动上发生了悬而未决的争端，联合国的制裁在30天之后自动恢复。避免再次制裁需要安理会进行表决，这就为持怀疑态度的美国提供了否决的机会。
Mr. Obama’s critics in Congress, including at least two senior Democrats, objected to the Council vote’s taking place before Congress has had a chance to debate the accord.
奥巴马在国会的批评者，其中包括至少两名资深民主党人，在国会还没有机会讨论该协议之前，就对理事会举行投票表示了反对。
The United States ambassador, Samantha Power, speaking immediately after the vote, told the Council that sanctions relief would start only when Iran “verifiably” met its obligations under the deal.
美国驻联合国大使萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)在投票结束后立即发表讲话，对联合国安理会表示，只有当伊朗“能够证实”它遵从协议履行义务时，才能开始减轻制裁。
“We have a responsibility to test diplomacy,” she said.
她说，“我们有检验外交策略的责任。”
In an effort to assuage critics, including Israel, Ms. Power went on to say the United States would continue to scrutinize the “instability that Iran fuels beyond its nuclear program.”
为了安抚以色列等批评者，鲍尔接着说道，美国会继续审查“除了核项目外，伊朗所引发的不稳定性”。
She also called on Iran “to immediately release all unjustly detained Americans,” referring to three Americans of Iranian descent who have been incarcerated in Iran — Amir Hekmati, Saeed Abedini and Jason Rezaian — as well as a fourth American, Robert A. Levinson, who has been missing in that country for eight years.
她还呼吁伊朗“立即释放所有遭到不公正扣押的美国人”，她指的是被伊朗监禁的三名伊朗裔美国人——阿米尔·赫克马提(Amir Hekmati)、赛义德·阿伯蒂尼(Saeed Abedini)和贾森·礼萨安(Jason Rezaian)，以及第四名美国人罗伯特·A·莱文森(Robert A. Levinson)，他在伊朗失踪已有八年的时间。
Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations, Gholamali Khoshroo, struck a defiant tone in the council’s chambers after the vote. He asserted that the sanctions had been “unjustifiably” imposed, and he lashed out against what he called “Iranophobia.”
投票结束后，伊朗驻联合国大使吴拉姆-阿里·霍什鲁(Gholamali Khoshroo)在安理会会议室发表了强硬的讲话。他宣称，相关国家“无理地”施加了这些制裁，他猛烈抨击了他所说的“伊朗恐惧症”。
Mr. Khoshroo took aim at the American ambassador’s suggestion that Iran destabilizes the region, and retorted that it was the “feckless and reckless action” of the United States that had sowed crises in the Middle East.
对于美国大使称伊朗破坏了该地区的稳定的说法，霍什鲁予以反驳，称这是在中东埋下危机的美国的“不负责任、鲁莽的行为”。
The Israeli government, which considers Iran one of its most dangerous enemies and has expressed strong opposition to the nuclear accord, quickly denounced the Council resolution.
以色列政府立即对安理会决议进行谴责。以色列认为伊朗是最危险的敌人之一，并强烈反对该核协议。
“The hypocrisy knows no bounds,” Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said of the vote. He asserted that Iran had “systematically” violated prior Council resolutions and “calls for the destruction of Israel.”
“极其虚伪，”以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)提到此次投票时说。他声称，伊朗“处心积虑地”违反了安理会之前的决议，并“呼吁毁灭以色列”。
“The best way to fight this hypocrisy is to tell the truth in a strong and unified manner,” Mr. Netanyahu told Israel’s Parliament, according to a translation provided by his office.
根据内塔尼亚胡办公室提供的翻译文件，内塔尼亚胡对以色列议会表示，“打破这种虚伪的最好方式，就是以一种强硬且统一的语气阐明真相。”
“They say that this agreement makes war more distant,” Mr. Netanyahu said. “This is not true; this agreement brings war closer.”
“他们称该协议使我们远离战争，”内塔尼亚胡说。“这不是真的；这份协议使我们走向战争。”
The ambassadors from France and Russia both described the resolution as historic, but used their Council pulpit to emphasize their own positions. The French ambassador, François Delattre, said the pact must be carefully monitored. “We will judge by its actions Iran’s willingness to make this agreement a success,” he said.
法国及俄罗斯驻联合国大使都表示这份决议具有历史意义，但他们利用安理会这个平台强调了自己的立场。法国大使弗朗索瓦·德拉特 (Francois Delattre)表示，必须认真监督该协议的实施。他说，“我们将通过伊朗的行动来判断，它是否有让协议成功的意愿。”