In the United States, Lenovo is still best known as the Chinese company that bought IBM’s PC business in 2005.
在美国，联想最为人熟知的身份依然是那个在2005年收购了IBM个人电脑业务的中国公司。
In China, it is better known as the world’s new No. 1 PC maker, a force to be reckoned with in smartphones and a bellwether for the nation’s economic and technological might.
在中国，联想更多地被认为是全球最大的个人电脑生产商，是智能手机领域一股不可小看的重要力量，也是中国经济和科技队伍中的领头羊。
The laptop maker is already the second-largest smartphone brand in China, after Samsung Electronics. Lenovo, which has never had modest plans, wants to build on that success and begin pushing into the United States and other wealthy markets in 2014.
在中国，这家笔记本电脑生产商已经发展成了仅次于三星电子(Samsung Electronics)的第二大智能手机品牌。2014年，谋划向来大胆的联想希望以这种成功为契机，开始向美国和其他富裕的市场进军。
“I’ll be very clear: Our aspiration is someday to be No. 1 in the mobile space,” said J. D. Howard, a Lenovo vice president who is in charge of developing the company’s smartphone business outside China. “I know it sounds crazy, but even five years ago, if I had said we’d be No. 1 in PCs, people would have said we were crazy.”
“我要说明：我们的愿望是，有一天能坐上移动领域的头把交椅，”联想负责开拓海外智能手机业务的副总裁J·D·霍华德(J. D. Howard)说，“我知道这听起来很疯狂，但即便是五年前，如果我说我们会成为个人电脑领域的龙头老大，人们也会说我们疯了。”
The company must balance — some would say blend — American and Chinese cultures. It has dual headquarters, in Beijing and Morrisville, N.C. Eighteen nationalities are represented among the top 100 managers. While it has had success worldwide in PCs and with its new smartphones in China, its good fortune in developed markets, dominated by entrenched Apple and Samsung, is anything but assured.
联想必须平衡——也有人会说融合——中美两国的文化。联想有两个总部，一个位于北京，另一个位于北卡罗莱纳州的莫里斯维尔。公司100名高层管理人员来自18个国家。尽管联想的个人电脑业务在全球取得了成功，在中国新推出的智能手机也大有斩获，但在苹果(Apple)和三星长期占主导地位的成熟市场，它能否好运还没有定论。
But the company constantly surprises. Lenovo was founded in 1984 by Liu Chuanzhi, a computer scientist, and a group of other engineers with financing from the Chinese Academy of Sciences, a government-linked research institute that still holds an indirect stake in Lenovo.
然而，这家公司总是能给人以意外。1984年，在中国科学院的资助下，计算机科学家柳传志和一群工程师创建了联想。中国科学院是一家与政府有关系的研究机构，至今仍间接持有联想的股份。
Mr. Liu, who had been sent to a rice farm to work as a laborer during the Cultural Revolution, startled the world when it bought IBM’s PC business. The IBM deal gave the upstart instant credibility and cachet because he secured the right to use the ThinkPad name, a popular brand among companies around the world. Lenovo then made other deals that gave it a presence in major markets like Germany, Brazil and Japan.
当联想收购IBM的个人电脑业务时，曾在文化大革命期间被下放农场种水稻的柳传志让全世界为之震惊。收购IBM个人电脑业务的这项交易让这家初创企业立刻收获了信誉和威望，因为柳传志获得了使用ThinkPad这个品牌的权利。在全世界的企业中，这个品牌颇受欢迎。后来，联想又通过其他一些交易，进入了包括德国、巴西和日本在内的主要市场。
By September of this year, Lenovo had cemented its position atop the PC industry. It sold more PCs than two major American companies, Hewlett-Packard and Dell, as well as the fading Taiwan-based rivals Acer and Asus. Lenovo had secured a 16.7 percent share of global PC shipments, according to the two market research firms that track them, Gartner and IDC.
到今年9月，联想已经巩固了自己在个人电脑领域的领先地位。联想售出的个人电脑超过了美国两巨头惠普(Hewlett-Packard)和戴尔(Dell)，以及台湾日益衰败的对手宏碁(Acer)和华硕(Asus)。根据跟踪个人电脑出货量情况的市场研究公司高德纳(Gartner)和国际数据公司(IDC)的数据，联想在全球个人电脑出货量中所占的比例为16.7%。
The company’s strength has always been in building very durable laptops, but recently it has expanded into tablets. In January 2012 it introduced a new device under the Yoga brand that blends the features of a laptop and a tablet, including a flippable touch screen. It sells for less than $300 in the United States.
联想的强项一直是生产极其耐用的笔记本电脑，但前不久，这家公司将业务扩展到了平板电脑领域。2012年1月，联想推出了以Yoga命名的一款新产品。这款设备结合了笔记本和平板电脑的功能，其中包括可翻转的触摸屏。在美国，这款产品售价不到300美元（约合1820元人民币）。
Moreover, the tablet runs on Android, the Google-made operating system that has been so important to the success of Samsung’s smartphones and tablets. It showed the kind of flexibility that most PC makers, wedded to Microsoft’s operating system software, lack.
此外，这款平板电脑使用的是Android操作系统。由谷歌(Google)开发出来的这个操作系统为三星智能手机和平板电脑取得的成功立下了汗马功劳。它体现出了使用微软(Microsoft)操作系统的大部分个人电脑生产商所没有的灵活性。
“The PC is not going to go away tomorrow,” Peter Hortensius, president of the company’s Think Business Group, which serves corporate customers. “Two hundred billion dollars is a big pie, and we think we can get a bigger piece of it,” he said, referring to the approximate annual sales in the global PC market.
“个人电脑不会马上消失，”联想服务企业客户的Think业务集团负责人彼得·霍腾休斯(Peter Hortensius)说，“2000亿美元是个大蛋糕，我们认为我们能得到更大的份额。”他这里指的是全球个人电脑市场每年大致的销售额。
IDC forecasts that sales of PCs will decline almost 14 percent to 314 million units this year from 364 million two years ago. Some analysts say there is pent-up demand among corporate customers who have held off buying new desktops because of a weak economy. But the longer-term trend seems clear: PCs are a mature business.
国际数据公司预测，相比于两年前的3.64亿台，今年个人电脑的销量会减少将近14%，降至3.14亿台。一些分析人士表示，因为经济不景气，一些企业用户延迟购买新台式机，因此相关需求受到了压抑。但长期趋势很明朗：个人电脑是一个成熟的领域。
“Lenovo is feeling the pressure, but it may be better prepared to weather the storm,” said Jeff Orr, an analyst at ABI Research.
“联想感受到了压力，但公司可能为渡过这场风暴做好了更充分的准备，”研究机构ABI Research的分析师杰夫·奥尔(Jeff Orr)说。
One reason is smartphones. In 2008, its chief executive at the time, William J. Amelio, sold the company’s fledgling mobile business to an investor group for about $100 million. He was seeking to focus the company’s efforts on PCs as it wrestled with the effects of the global financial crisis. The decision proved to be shortsighted. A year earlier, Apple had introduced the iPhone, setting the stage for the mobile Internet revolution.
其中一个原因是智能手机。2008年，时任首席执行官的威廉·J·阿梅里奥(William J. Amelio)将联想新的移动业务以大约1亿美元的价格卖给了一个投资集团。当时，联想正在全力应对全球金融危机的影响，阿梅里奥希望把公司的力量集中在个人电脑业务上。事实证明，这一决策实属目光短浅。就在前一年，苹果推出了iPhone，为移动互联网革命做好了准备。
In 2009, Lenovo corrected the error by ousting Mr. Amelio. The new chief executive, Yang Yuanqing, bought back the mobile unit — at twice the price — and went to work regaining ground.
2009年，联想解雇了阿梅里奥，修正了错误。新任首席执行官杨元庆以两倍的价格回购了手机业务，并设法收复失地。
By the third quarter of this year, the company secured 13 percent of the Chinese smartphone market. Samsung Electronics, which had been at it longer, is doing better with 21 percent, according to Canalys, a research firm. But it is enough that worldwide, Lenovo is in third place after Samsung and Apple. By this summer, Lenovo was selling more smartphones and tablets, combined, than its PCs, even though PCs still account for 85 percent of its revenue.
到今年第三季度，联想牢牢控制了中国智能手机市场13%的份额。根据研究公司Canalys的数据，在智能手机领域经营时间更长的三星电子占据了21%的市场份额，略胜一筹。不过，联想在全球市场排名第三，紧随在三星和苹果之后，表现不俗。到今年夏天，联想智能手机和平板电脑合计的销售量已经超出了个人电脑销量，虽然个人电脑销售依然占据了联想总收入的85%。
Lenovo has been helped by its leading position in PCs and its close relationships with retailers and mobile operators in China, the world’s largest smartphone market.
联想在个人电脑业务上的领导地位，以及和中国零售商、手机运营商的密切关系让公司受益匪浅，中国是全球最大的智能手机市场。
“They know the China market better than any of the foreign brands, and they have the distribution network,” said Jenny Lai, an analyst at HSBC.
汇丰银行(HSBC)分析师赖惠娟(Jenny Lai)说，“联想比其他任何外国品牌都更了解中国市场，他们把握着分销渠道。”
While more than 90 percent of the company’s mobile phone sales are still in China, there are signs of promise elsewhere. In Indonesia, another enormous market, Lenovo’s market share is already in double digits. Last year, Lenovo began its smartphone export push by moving into India, Vietnam, the Philippines and Russia.
尽管90%以上的联想智能手机依然是在中国销售的，然而还是有迹象显示，海外市场是有潜力的。在另一个巨大的市场印度尼西亚，联想的市场份额已经达到了两位数。去年，联想通过打入印度、越南、菲律宾和俄罗斯市场，开始大力推动其智能手机的出口。
Analysts say much of the growth in smartphone sales will occur in developing countries, but Lenovo does not plan to stop there. But given the strength of Samsung and Apple in the United States and Europe, a newcomer may find it difficult. “I just can’t imagine that Lenovo could come into the U.S. smartphone market and build market share quickly,” said Mikako Kitagawa, an analyst at Gartner.
一些分析师表示，智能手机销售的增长潜力很多来自发展中国家，然而，联想并不打算止步于此。不过，考虑到三星和苹果在美国及欧洲的占有率，新进者可能会发现，要打入其中相当艰难。高德纳的分析师北川美加子（Mikako Kitagawa，音译）说，“我就是无法想象，联想能进入美国智能手机市场，并迅速占据市场份额。”
While Apple and Samsung are ranked among the world’s 10 most valuable brands by Interbrand, a marketing firm, Lenovo is not among the top 100. Lenovo has a high profile among corporate purchasing managers, who are responsible for many PC buying decisions, but its brand name is less widely known among consumers. Even Lenovo executives acknowledge that to challenge Apple or Samsung in smartphones, Lenovo will have to burnish its image. To do so, the company has enlisted Ashton Kutcher and Kobe Bryant as pitchmen.
苹果和三星都跻身于市场营销公司Interbrand推出的全球最有价值的10大品牌排行榜，而联想却没能进入前100名。联想在企业采购经理中的知名度相当高，这些经理掌握着许多个人电脑采购业务的决定权，不过，这一品牌在个人消费者中的影响力就没那么大了。即便是联想的高管都承认，要想在智能手机领域挑战苹果或三星，联想必须得提升自己的形象。为达到这一目的，联想已经争取到艾什顿·库彻(Ashton Kutcher)和科比·布莱恩特(Kobe Bryant)出任自己的推销员。
Mr. Bryant appeared in ads for Lenovo’s K900 smartphone in China and other Asian countries this year. The idea, executives say, is to make Lenovo look like an American or global company; many consumers are suspicious of domestic brands, considering their quality to be inferior.
今年，布莱恩特出现在中国和其他亚洲国家的广告中，为联想的K900智能手机代言。高管们说，这个创意是为了让联想看上去像是一家美国公司、或是一家国际化的公司；许多消费者对国产品牌心存疑虑，认为它们质量低下。
Lenovo recently hired Mr. Kutcher, who portrayed the Apple founder Steven P. Jobs in the movie “Jobs.” Mr. Kutcher’s title is “product engineer.” He will do more than just serve as a celebrity endorser, the company says.
最近，联想聘用了在电影《乔布斯》(Jobs)中饰演苹果创始人史蒂夫·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)的库彻。库彻的头衔是“产品工程师”。联想表示，他要做的工作，不只是明星推销员这么简单。
“He’s not going to be writing code or designing chipsets,” said David Roman, Lenovo’s chief marketing officer and the former H.P. executive who managed the company’s effective “The Computer is Personal Again” campaign. “But he’s very into design and software, integrating social media. The guy is a genuine technologist.”
曾在惠普负责卓有成效的市场活动“惠普电脑，掌控个性世界”(The Computer is Personal Again)的惠普前高管、现任联想首席营销官的戴维·罗曼(David Roman)说，“他不会去写代码，或者设计芯片。不过，他对设计和软件，以及与社交媒体的融合都很在行。他是一位名副其实的技术专家。”
Some of Lenovo’s early smartphones were quirky, with unusual clamshell designs that recalled earlier generations of mobile technology. While many of the smartphones sold in China and other developing countries are budget models, Lenovo has been adding higher-end handsets to its range as it prepares for an expansion into wealthier markets.
联想一些早期的智能手机有些另类，它们与众不同的翻盖设计让人回想起前几代的手机技术。在中国和其他发展中国家销售的许多智能手机都是低价款，然而，为了在更富有的市场扩展份额，联想一直在为自己的智能机系列添加高端型号。
Last month in Beijing, it showed off a new device called the Vibe Z. It is a cross between a phone and a tablet, what the consumer electronics industry has started calling a phablet. With a 5.5-inch screen housed in a largely plastic body, the Vibe Z lists at 3,399 renminbi, or about $560 in China, where some smartphones can be had for less than $100.
上个月，一款名为Vibe Z的联想新机在北京闪亮登场。它是介于手机和平板电脑之间的一款产品，消费电子行业开始把这种机型称为平板手机。Vibe Z的机壳大部分是塑料材质，有一个5.5英寸的屏幕，在某些智能手机的售价还不到100美元的中国，这款机器的售价高达3399元人民币，约合560美元。
Lenovo is not the only Chinese smartphone maker itching to expand internationally. Others, like Huawei, Xiaomi and ZTE, have also begun pushing outside the domestic market. Lenovo executives say they are in a better position than Chinese rivals because of the company’s strength in PCs. By adding tablets and smartphones, they say, Lenovo will be able to integrate devices and cloud computing services into the devices.
联想不是唯一一家渴望拓展国际市场的中国智能手机制造商。华为、小米和中兴等其他中国制造商也已开始拓展海外市场。联想的高管说，得益于该公司在个人电脑上的优势，他们比其他中国的竞争对手处于更有利的位置。他们表示，通过增加平板电脑和智能手机产品，联想将把其他设备和云计算服务整合到新设备里去。
They say consumers are looking for alternatives to Apple or Samsung. “I’ve talked to a lot of people in the industry, and there is a hunger for alternatives to the big two,” Lenovo’s Mr. Howard said. “It’s just the nature of things that power corrupts.”
他们表示，客户正在寻找除苹果或三星以外的产品。联想的霍华德说，“我和多名业内人士交谈过，客户们确实渴望找到除了两大品牌之外的产品。权力的腐朽是万物的本性。”