Lenovo is close to finalizing a deal for IBM’s low-end server business, according to people briefed on the process.
据了解交易进展的人士透露，联想在收购IBM低端服务器业务上已接近达成协议。
A deal for the unit could be announced on Thursday, and would represent the successful completion of a deal that almost got done last year.
联想可能会在本周四宣布收购该业务部门的交易，它将代表去年几近达成的一单交易成功收官。
Early last year, Lenovo and IBM were in negotiations about the unit, but could not agree on the price. Lenovo valued the unit at about $2.5 billion, while IBM wanted at least $4 billion. People briefed on the deal did not know what Lenovo would ultimately pay for the unit, which includes IBM’s x86 server business, but said it was likely to be below $4 billion.
去年早些时候，联想曾就收购该业务部门与IBM展开了谈判，不过双方没能在价格上达成共识。联想对该部门的估值约为25亿美元（约合150亿元人民币），而IBM希望获得至少40亿美元。了解交易内情的人士不清楚，联想最终将为该部门支付多少钱，IBM的x86服务器业务也属于该部门。不过前述人士透露，最终成交价很可能低于40亿美元。
IBM restarted talks with interested parties recently. Dell and Fujitsu were among the other bidders considering buying the unit.
近日，IBM重启了谈判，对象是对该业务感兴趣的买家。戴尔(Dell)和富士通(Fujitsu)也在考虑收购该部门的竞标商之列。
But because Lenovo had already taken a close look at the business last year, it was able to quickly make an offer that IBM was comfortable with.
不过，联想已于去年仔细考察过这项业务，如此一来，它就能迅速地提出一个让IBM满意的报价。
The unit being sold has estimated revenues of about $5 billion a year, but IBM does not break out sales for the division, which has lower margins than its software and services businesses.
被出售的部门的年收入据估算约为50亿美元，不过IBM并未公布该部门的具体销售额，其利润要低于软件和服务业务的利润。
With a sale of the division, IBM would continue its transformation from primarily a hardware producer to a provider of services and software for businesses and governments. The company sold its ThinkPad personal computer business to Lenovo in 2005 for $1.75 billion, making it the third-largest personal computer producer in the world.
通过出售该部门，IBM将继续自己的转型之路，从大体上的一个硬件生产商转变成为企业和政府提供服务和软件的供应商。该公司于2005年把旗下的ThinkPad系列个人电脑业务出售给了联想，成交价为17.5亿美元，此次交易使联想一举成为全球第三大个人电脑生产商。
For Lenovo, based in China, acquiring the server business could help it weather the slow decline in its core personal computer business. Lenovo is also expanding into tablets and smartphones as it tries to manage the slow decline of the personal computer market.
对于总部在中国的联想而言，收购服务器业务，有助于该公司抵御核心业务，即个人电脑业务的缓慢下滑。联想还在朝着平板电脑和智能手机领域扩张，同时在设法应对个人电脑市场上缓慢下滑的业务。
The Wall Street Journal earlier reported that a deal could be announced on Thursday.
早些时候，《华尔街日报》(Wall Street Journal)报道称，此次交易可能会在本周四得到宣布。