TOKYO — Lenovo, the world’s largest PC maker, now sells more smartphones and tablets than computers.
东京——现在，世界上最大的电脑制造商联想(Lenovo)售出的智能手机和平板电脑比普通电脑还多。
That milestone, which the company announced Thursday, underlines the growing influence of Chinese companies like Lenovo in the shift from desktop to mobile computing. Now even Lenovo, which acquired the IBM PC business in 2005 and sells ThinkPad notebooks, is remaking itself for a post-PC era.
联想公司于周四宣布了这个里程碑式的事件，突显联想等中国公司在台式电脑向移动电脑设备转变的过程中发挥着越来越大的影响力。联想公司于2005年收购IBM的个人电脑业务，目前仍在发售ThinkPad笔记本，如今，就连该公司都为后PC时代重塑了自我。
Lenovo said its sales of smartphones had more than doubled in the three months that ended June 30, to 11.4 million. The company also sold 1.5 million tablet computers.
联想表示，在截至6月30日的那个季度，公司智能手机的销量增加了一倍多，达到1140万台。公司还售出了150万台平板电脑。
Executives said Lenovo had benefited from a structural shift in the smartphone business, where the high end, dominated by Apple and Samsung Electronics, is showing signs of saturation. Meanwhile, sales of less expensive handsets made by Lenovo and other Chinese companies, like Huawei and ZTE, are growing more rapidly. “The recent change in the market favors Lenovo and our business model,” Yang Yuanqing, chief executive of Lenovo, said in a conference call with analysts. “The market is shifting from the premium part to the mainstream. It is shifting from the mature markets to the emerging markets.”
公司高管称，联想得益于智能手机业务的结构性变化。在智能手机业务中，被苹果(Apple)和三星电子(Samsung Electronics)占据的高端市场已经出现饱和迹象。与此同时，联想和华为(Huawei)、中兴(ZTE)等其他中国公司所生产的较为廉价的手机的销量却加快了增长的速度。“市场近期的变化对联想和联想的商业模式有利，”联想首席执行官杨元庆在与分析人士举行电话会议时说。“行业的重心正从高端产品转移至主流产品，从发达市场转移至新兴市场。”
Lenovo was the fourth-largest maker of smartphones worldwide in the second quarter, according to IDC, a research firm, with a market share of 4.7 percent, up from 3.1 percent a year earlier.
根据研究公司国际数据公司(IDC)提供的数据，今年第二季度，联想成了世界第四大智能手机制造商，占据了4.7%的市场份额，一年前则为3.1%。
The company’s smartphone business relies heavily on China, which accounts for about 80 percent of sales, but Lenovo is trying to expand its global presence.
联想的智能手机业务对中国的依赖程度很高，中国市场的销售量占总销量的80%左右，但联想正在努力扩大其国际影响。
On Thursday, Lenovo executives declined to comment on speculation about a possible bid for BlackBerry, which has put itself up for sale. But Lenovo made it clear that it did not plan to rely on internal, or “organic,” growth alone.
周四，联想高管拒绝就公司可能收购黑莓(BlackBerry)的揣测发表评论。黑莓已经准备出售公司。但是，联想明确表示，它不会只依赖于内部或“有机”增长。
“Given its solid financial position, the group will continue to actively look for inorganic growth opportunities which will supplement its organic growth strategy to accelerate future expansion,” Lenovo said in its latest quarterly earnings report.
联想在最新的季度收益报告中说，“公司目前财务状况良好，因此将继续积极寻找无机增长机会，以补充公司的有机增长战略，加快未来的发展步伐。”
Analysts say acquisitions might be one way for Lenovo to address some of the shortcomings of its smartphone arm, including the low prices that its devices fetch — an average of less than $100 in China, while devices like Apple’s iPhone 5 and Samsung’s Galaxy S4 cost more than $700 in that country.
分析人士称，收购或许可以帮助联想解决智能手机产品的部分缺陷，比如较低的售价——联想手机在中国的平均售价不足100美元（约合611元人民币），而苹果iPhone 5和三星Galaxy S4在中国的售价超过700美元。
Because of the low prices, Lenovo’s smartphone and tablet arm generated only 14 percent of the company’s revenue in the most recent quarter. The company remains heavily reliant on its PC division for sales and earnings, even though that business is shrinking.
因为价格低，在最近这个季度，联想的智能手机和平板电脑所带来的收益仅占联想总收入的14%。联想仍在很大程度上依赖个人电脑的销售和收入，即便这部分业务正在缩水。
Lenovo has managed the decline better than some of its rivals. Its shipments of computers slipped 1.4 percent in the second quarter, to 12.6 million, compared with a decline of 11 percent in the overall market, according to IDC. As a result, Lenovo overtook Hewlett-Packard and become the world’s largest PC maker in the period. That helped Lenovo post a 23 percent increase in net income, to $174 million, for its financial first quarter, which ended in June. The results were above analysts’ expectations.
与一些竞争对手相比，联想更有效地处理了业务缩水的问题。据IDC透露，联想第二季度的电脑出货量下降了1.4%，降至1260万台，整体市场的电脑出货量则下降了11%。因此，联想取代惠普(Hewlett-Packard)，成为了这一时期世界最大的个人电脑制造商。有赖于此，联想发布公告称，该公司第一财季——到6月为止——的净利润上涨了23%，达到1.74亿美元。这个结果超出了分析人士的预期。
Despite the solid performance of the PC division, company executives have taken to calling Lenovo a “PC-plus” company. Mr. Yang stuck with a previous forecast that the company would sell 50 million smartphones and 10 million tablets in the current quarter. But he acknowledged that Lenovo still had work to do in getting out the message about its mobile devices in markets beyond China.
尽管个人电脑业绩表现稳健，联想公司高管们还是开始称自己的公司是一个“PC+”公司。杨元庆坚持之前的预测，即该公司在当前季度将销售5000万部智能手机和1000万台平板电脑。但他承认，要想将移动设备品牌推广至中国之外的市场，联想仍需努力。
“We still need to invest in the branding, we still need to invest in the channel and network building,” he said.
他说，“我们仍然需要投资做品牌，投资建设渠道和网络。”
In China, Lenovo’s mobile business is growing rapidly. Canalys, a research firm, said it had shipped 10.8 million smartphones there in the second quarter, second only to Samsung, with 15.5 million. That is a strong base from which to develop new phones for other price-conscious developing markets, analysts say.
在中国，联想的移动业务正在快速增长。研究公司Canalys称，在第二季度，联想在中国销售了1080万部智能手机，仅次于销量1550万的三星。分析人士称，这是一个强大基础，有助于联想为其他价格敏感的发展中市场研发新手机。
“The whole dynamic favors Lenovo a lot,” said Jenny Lai, an analyst at HSBC. “If you are No. 2 in the largest market in the world, your suppliers will come to you.”
“整个行业的动态对联想十分有利，”汇丰分析师赖惠娟(Jenny Lai)说。“如果你在世界最大的市场排名第二，供应商自然会来找你。”