WASHINGTON — Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, 80, vowed in an interview to stay on the Supreme Court as long as her health and intellect remained strong, saying she was fully engaged in her work as the leader of the liberal opposition on what she called “one of the most activist courts in history.”
华盛顿——80岁的大法官鲁思·B·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)接受采访时发誓，只要自己身体强健、思维敏捷，她就将继续留在联邦最高法院(Supreme Court)。她表示自己全心投入工作，担任她口中“史上最激进的法院”的自由主义少数派领袖。
In wide-ranging remarks in her chambers on Friday that touched on affirmative action, abortion and same-sex marriage, Justice Ginsburg said she had made a mistake in joining a 2009 opinion that laid the groundwork for the court’s decision in June effectively striking down the heart of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The recent decision, she said, was “stunning in terms of activism.”
上周五，金斯伯格在她的办公室内谈论了很多话题，涉及到平权措施、堕胎及同性婚姻。她表示自己在2009年支持一项判决意见时犯了错误，因为该意见为最高法院今年6月做出的一项裁决奠定了基础。这项裁决实质上废除了1965年《选举权法》(Voting Rights Act of 1965)的核心条款。她还认为，这次判决“激进得令人震惊”。
Unless they have a book to sell, Supreme Court justices rarely give interviews. Justice Ginsburg has given several this summer, perhaps in reaction to calls from some liberals that she step down in time for President Obama to name her successor.
最高法院的法官很少接受采访，除非他们有书要卖。但金斯伯格今年夏天已接受了几次采访，或许是为了回应一些自由派的要求。他们认为金斯伯格应及时辞职，以便让奥巴马总统任命她的继任者。
On Friday, she said repeatedly that the identity of the president who would appoint her replacement did not figure in her retirement planning.
她在周五多次表示，任命接替人选的总统有何政见，不会影响她的退休计划。
“There will be a president after this one, and I’m hopeful that that president will be a fine president,” she said.
她说，“奥巴马之后会有新的总统，我认为下任总统将是一个好总统。”
Were Mr. Obama to name Justice Ginsburg’s successor, it would presumably be a one-for-one liberal swap that would not alter the court’s ideological balance. But if a Republican president is elected in 2016 and gets to name her successor, the court would be fundamentally reshaped.
如果奥巴马得以任命接替金斯伯格的人选，将很可能是自由派内部的一对一调换，不会改变最高法院的意识形态均势。但如果共和党候选人赢得2016年的大选并得以任命她的继任者，那么最高法院将遭遇彻底洗牌。 
Justice Ginsburg has survived two bouts with cancer, but her health is now good, she said, and her work ethic exceptional. There is no question, on the bench or in chambers, that she has full command of the complex legal issues that reach the court.
金斯伯格两次战胜癌症，自称现在身体状况良好。而且她仍在极其勤奋地工作。毫无疑问，无论是在法庭上，还是在办公室里，提交到最高法院的复杂法律问题完全在她的掌控之中。
Her age has required only minor adjustments.
对她而言，这样的年龄只需要做些小的调整。
“I don’t water-ski anymore,” Justice Ginsburg said. “I haven’t gone horseback riding in four years. I haven’t ruled that out entirely. But water-skiing, those days are over.”
“我不再滑水了，”金斯伯格说。“我已经四年没有骑马了，不过还没有完全排除骑马的可能，但滑水的日子已经过去了。”
Justice Ginsburg, who was appointed by President Bill Clinton in 1993, said she intended to stay on the court “as long as I can do the job full steam, and that, at my age, is not predictable.”
1993年，总统比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)任命金斯伯格担任大法官。她表示自己打算留在最高法院，“只要我能全力完成工作，但在我这把年龄，这一点不可预测。”
“I love my job,” she added. “I thought last year I did as well as in past terms.”
“我热爱工作，”她补充说。“我觉得，我去年的工作跟之前那些年的表现一样好。”
With the departure of Justice John Paul Stevens in 2010, Justice Ginsburg became the leader of the court’s four-member liberal wing, a role she seems to enjoy. “I am now the most senior justice when we divide 5-4 with the usual suspects,” she said.
随着大法官约翰·保罗·史蒂文斯(John Paul Stevens)2010年离开最高法院，金斯伯格成为了法院中由四名法官组成的自由派阵营的领袖。她似乎非常享受这个角色。“现在，我们与老对手形成5比4态势的时候，我可是最资深的法官了，”她说。
The last two terms, which brought major decisions on Mr. Obama’s health care law, race and same-sex marriage, were, she said, “heady, exhausting, challenging.”
金斯伯格表示，上两个年度“令人兴奋、疲惫，也充满挑战”。大法官们在此期间做出了有关奥巴马医改法案、种族及同性婚姻的重要判决。
She was especially critical of the voting rights decision, as well as the part of the ruling upholding the health care law that nonetheless said it could not be justified under Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce.
对于有关选举权的判决，她持极为批判的态度。她对让医改法案得以维持的裁决的一部分也很不满意，那部分裁决认为，不能利用国会拥有监管州际贸易活动的权力来为法案正名。
In general, Justice Ginsburg said, “if it’s measured in terms of readiness to overturn legislation, this is one of the most activist courts in history.”
金斯伯格表示，总的来说，“如果以对推翻立法的热情程度来看，这是史上最激进的最高法院之一。”
The next term, which begins on Oct. 7, is also likely to produce major decisions, she said, pointing at piles of briefs in cases concerning campaign contribution limits and affirmative action.
下一个法庭年度将于10月7日开始，金斯伯格表示，在这个年度里，最高法院也有可能做出重要裁决，她指了指成堆的有关竞选捐款限制及平权措施的摘要文件。
The recent voting rights decision, Shelby County v. Holder, also invited Congress to enact new legislation. But Justice Ginsburg, who dissented, did not sound optimistic.
最近有关选举权——谢尔比县诉霍尔德(Holder)一案——的判决还恳请国会(Congress)制定新法律。但持不同意见的金斯伯格对此并不乐观。
“The Voting Rights Act passed by overwhelming majorities,” she said of its reauthorization in 2006, “but this Congress I don’t think is equipped to do anything about it.”
金斯伯格表示《选举权法》在2006年获得了再授权，“《选举权法》以压倒性多数的投票获得通过，”她说，“但我认为这届国会不具备对它做出任何改变的条件。”
Asked if she was disappointed by the almost immediate tightening of voting laws in Texas and North Carolina after the decision, she chose a different word: “Disillusioned.”
最高法院做出裁决后，德克萨斯州和北卡罗来纳州几乎立即收紧了相关选举权法规，在被问及是否对此感到失望时，金斯伯格选择了一个不同的词语，“幻灭。”
The flaw in the court’s decision, she said, was to conclude from the nation’s progress in protecting minority voters that the law was no longer needed. She repeated a line from her dissent: “It is like throwing away your umbrella in a rainstorm because you are not getting wet.”
她表示，这份判决的缺陷在于，法院因为美国在保护少数族裔选民的权利方面取得了进步，就断定不再需要该法案。她再次提到了自己的不同态度，“这与下暴雨时因为没淋湿就扔掉雨伞一样。”
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote the majority opinion, and he quoted extensively from a 2009 decision that had, temporarily as it turned out, let the heart of the Voting Rights Act survive. Eight members of the court, including Justice Ginsburg, had signed the earlier decision.
首席大法官小约翰·G·罗伯茨(John G. Roberts Jr.)撰写了多数意见书，他广泛援引了2009年的一项判决，这项判决暂时保留了《选举权法》的核心条款。法院中包括金斯伯格在内的八名大法官都在之前的判决书上签了名。
On Friday, she said she did not regret her earlier vote, as the result in the 2009 case was correct. But she said she should have distanced herself from the majority opinion’s language. “If you think it’s going to do real damage, you don’t sign on to it,” she said. “I was mistaken in that case.”
金斯伯格在周五表示，她不后悔之前的决定，因为2009年的案件的判决是正确的。但她表示，自己本应该与多数意见书的表述保持距离。“如果你认为这会造成真正的破坏，你就不要在上面签名，”她说。“在那个案件中，我犯了错。”
Some commentators have said that the two voting rights decisions are an example of the long game Chief Justice Roberts seems to be playing in several areas of the law, including campaign finance and affirmative action. Justice Ginsburg’s lone dissent in June’s affirmative action case, leaving in place the University of Texas’ admissions plan but requiring lower courts to judge it against a more demanding standard, may suggest that she is alert to the chief justice’s apparent strategy.
一些评论员曾表示，这两个有关投票权的判决是一个例子，首席大法官罗伯茨似乎在竞选融资及平权措施等法律领域采取了长期策略。只有金斯伯格对6月份的平权措施案件持不同意见，该案的判决让德克萨斯大学(University of Texas)得以保持其招生计划，但要求下级法院作出判决，提出更严格的标准。此举或许说明，她对首席大法官似乎在执行的策略产生警惕。
Justice Ginsburg is by her own description “this little tiny little woman,” and she speaks in a murmur inflected with a Brooklyn accent. But she is a formidable force on the bench, often asking the first question at oral arguments in a way that frames the discussion that follows.
金斯伯格称自己是“一个小巧的小女人”，她说话时，低声细语，带有布鲁克林口音。但她在审判时会爆发出一股强大的力量，通常会在口头辩论时提第一个问题，该问题的表述随即会为接下来的辩论奠定基调。
Justice Ginsburg said her retirement calculations would center on her health and not on who would appoint her successor, even if that new justice could tilt the balance of the court and overturn some of the landmark women’s rights decisions that are a large part of her legacy.
金斯伯格表示，是否退休主要与自己的健康情况有关，与谁来任命接替者无关，即便新法官会改变法院的均势，推翻一些有关妇女权利的里程碑式的判决，而这些判决是金斯伯格的主要功绩。
“I don’t see that my majority opinions are going to be undone,” she said. “I do hope that some of my dissents will one day be the law.”
“我认为我的多数意见书不会被撤销，”她说。“我的确希望，我的一些不同意见有一天会成为法律。”