“For decades, the United States has worshiped at the altar of a unified yet unnatural Iraqi state.” I wrote these words in November 2003, six months after President George W. Bush declared “Mission accomplished.” I described the outcome of what I saw as the splintering of Iraq into Sunni, Shiite and Kurdish regions as “The Three-State Solution.” This thinking — once again inflaming policy debates — seemed to me the only way to avoid the internecine tribal and religious war again underway.
“几十年来，美国一直坚持着一个原则：维持一个统一的伊拉克，哪怕它颇显勉强。”这是我在2003年11月写下的话，当时距离乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统宣布“任务完成”已经过去六个月。我那时认为，结局是所谓的“三国方案”，即伊拉克分裂成逊尼派、什叶派和库尔德三个区域，并对此进行了表述。在我看来，这个想法在当时是唯一能避免两败俱伤的部族和宗教战争再度爆发的办法。现在，这个想法再一次引发了政策争论。
Middle East experts dismissed the idea as a partition policy. My intent was not to advocate a policy, but to describe what I thought was the inevitable breakup of Iraq. I urged the United States to make this as peaceable as possible. It was my hope that these states would eventually form a loose confederation.
中东专家曾认为这是个分拆策略，因而不屑一顾。但我的目的不是要提倡一个政策，而是想阐述我所推想的伊拉克的分裂，在我看来这种分裂是必然的。我呼吁美国尽可能确保这个过程能和平进行。我的希望是，这些政权最终能形成一个松散的邦联。
It appeared that the experts had strangled my idea in the cradle until a strange thing happened to me on the New York to Washington shuttle in 2006. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. took a seat next to me, and while the plane idled on the runway, we talked about Iraq.
我的想法一度似乎已被专家们扼杀在摇篮之中，但2006年我从纽约去华盛顿的路上遇到一件奇事。小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)参议员来到我身边坐下，趁着飞机停在跑道上的机会，我们聊起了伊拉克。
Mr. Biden and I agreed on the following principle: We didn’t want a breakup or partitioning of Iraq. Such a rupture would ignite terrible slaughter inside the country and unsettle the Middle East as a whole. Alas, my 2003 article lent itself to the partition criticism, even though it saw autonomous regions as a possible solution, and Mr. Biden and I wanted to clarify that point.
拜登先生和我在以下原则上达成了一致：我们不想要一个分裂或分拆的伊拉克。这样一场决裂会在其国内引发可怕的屠杀，扰乱整个中东的秩序。可惜，我在2003年写的那篇文章被批为分拆论调，尽管它把区域自治当做一种可能的方案，而拜登先生和我希望能澄清这一点。
At the same time, however, we still had to stress our belief that the fragmenting of Iraq was inevitable unless each religious and tribal group had strong incentives to stay in a unified state. For us, there was only one policy glue: federalism, or the decentralization of power to the regions with a limited role for central government. Though different in the particulars, the same idea provided the freedom of action for the original 13 colonies to form the United States of America.
然而，我们同时又必须重申，我们坚信伊拉克的分崩离析是不可避免的，除非有非常有力的激励政策促使各宗教和部族团体去维持一个统一国家。在我们看来，政策胶水只有这么一剂：联邦制，或者将权力分散在各地区，中央政府扮演一个有限的角色。细节各有不同，但正是这种理念，给构成美利坚合众国的最初13个殖民地带去了行动的自由。
In 2006, Mr. Biden and I wrote, also in an Op-Ed for The New York Times, that any stability in a united Iraq would be contingent upon an American troop presence that should not and could not be indefinitely sustained. Sunni dictatorships had held the country together in the past, but provided no long-term answers to the country’s challenges. We proposed instead that Kurdish, Sunni and Shiite regions “each be responsible for their own domestic laws, administration and internal security.” Baghdad would be declared a federal zone, and the central government there would be tasked with controlling defense, foreign affairs and the equitable distribution of oil revenues.
2006年，拜登先生和我还在一篇《纽约时报》评论文章里写到，一个统一的伊拉克能不能稳定，取决于是否有美国军队在场，而这种军事存在不应该也不可能无限期地维持下去。这个国家在过去靠逊尼派独裁统治维持统一，但这不是应对这一挑战的长久之计。我们转而提出，让库尔德人、逊尼派和什叶派地区“对自己的法律、行政和内部安全负责”。应该宣布巴格达为联邦区，中央政府的任务是控制国防、外交，以及石油收入的公平分配。
Despite all the criticism at the time, the Iraqis themselves embedded this approach in their Constitution. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki never implemented it, but rather sought to give his fellow Shiites the absolute power historically wielded by the Sunnis.
这种方法在当时遭到很多批评，但伊拉克人自己把它放进了他们的宪法中。而努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)总理却始终没有去付诸实践，他宁愿让自己的什叶派来掌握以前属于逊尼派的那种绝对权力。
The question now is whether federalism is still feasible, or even desirable. Back in 2003, and still in 2006, Washington had the sway in arms and aid to have federalism implemented. Current American influence is limited, and President Obama’s clout will depend less on what American force he brings to bear in the current crisis than on what strategy he offers.
现在的问题是，联邦制是否依然可行，甚或是否可取。2003年——乃至2006年，华盛顿可以凭借武力和援助带来的支配力去实施联邦制。目前美国人的影响力是有限的，面对当前的危机，奥巴马总统要更多地靠他提出的策略来发挥作用，而不是靠美国派出多少军队。
Sadly, he doesn’t seem to have one.
遗憾的是，奥巴马似乎没有提出相关策略。
Let me offer a strategy that prioritizes fighting the jihadis now and pushes for federalism later. The most urgent task is to prevent further conquest by the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS.
如果让我提出一个策略，那就是先重点打击圣战分子，之后再推动建立联邦制。目前最紧急的任务是防止伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）进一步扩大势力范围。
Iraqi armed forces, despite their military superiority, can’t do this job alone. They just don’t have the stomach for such a fight. They must have outside aid, and they are already getting some from Iran, and now Russia.
尽管伊拉克武装部队具有军事优势，但他们无法单独完成这项工作。面对这场斗争，他们就是没有斗志。他们必须有外援。他们已经获得伊朗的帮助，目前俄罗斯也在提供援助。