A federal judge in Hawaii issued a nationwide order Wednesday evening blocking President Donald Trump’s ban on travel from parts of the Muslim world, dealing a political blow to the White House and signaling that proponents of the ban face a long and risky legal battle ahead.
夏威夷的一名联邦法官周三晚上发布一项全国性命令，阻止了特朗普总统禁止穆斯林世界部分地区的公民入境美国的政令，此举是对白宫的一次政治打击，表明禁令的支持者将面临漫长而危险的法律斗争。
The ruling was the second frustrating defeat for Trump’s travel ban, after a federal court in Seattle halted an earlier version of the executive order last month. Trump responded to that setback with fury, lashing out at the judiciary before ultimately abandoning the order.
这项裁决是特朗普入境禁令第二次遭到挫败，上个月，西雅图的一家联邦法院阻止了这个政令的第一个版本。特朗普先是做出愤怒回应，对司法体系发飙，最后放弃了那道政令。
He issued a new and narrower travel ban on March 6, with the aim of pre-empting new lawsuits by abandoning some of the most contentious elements of the first version.
他在3月6日发布了一项新的禁令，收窄了覆盖面，希望放弃第一版中最有争议的部分从而避免引发新的诉讼。
But Trump evidently failed in that goal: Democratic states and nonprofit groups that work with immigrants and refugees raced into court to attack the updated order, alleging that it was a thinly veiled version of the ban on Muslim migration that he had pledged to enact last year, as a presidential candidate.
但特朗普显然没有达到这个目标：支持民主党的州和那些与移民和难民合作的非营利组织纷纷涌向法庭，指责这个新版的政令不过是对他在去年竞选总统期间承诺颁布的穆斯林移民禁令的略作掩饰版本。
Administration lawyers argued in multiple courts on Wednesday that the president was merely exercising his national security powers and that no element of the executive order, as written, could be construed as a religious test for travelers.
行政律师周三在多个法庭上辩论说，总统只是在行使其国家安全权力，这个行政命令中没有任何要素可以解读为对入境者的宗教信仰测试。
But in the lawsuit brought by Hawaii’s attorney general, Doug Chin, Judge Derrick K. Watson appeared skeptical of the government’s claim that past comments by Trump and his allies had no bearing on the case.
但是在由夏威夷首席检察官道格·奇(Doug Chin)提起的诉讼中，德里克·K·沃森(Derrick K. Watson)法官似乎对政府的说法表示怀疑，政府声称特朗普及其盟友过去的评论对此案没有影响。
“Are you saying we close our eyes to the sequence of statements before this?” Watson asked in a hearing Wednesday before he ruled against the administration.
“你是说我们假装看不到之前的表态顺序吗？”沃森周三的一次听证会上说，之后他就做出了不利于政府的裁决。
Trump’s original ban, released Jan. 27, unleashed scenes of chaos at U.S. airports and spurred mass protests. Issued abruptly on a Friday afternoon, it temporarily barred travel from seven majority-Muslim nations, making no explicit distinction between citizens of those countries who already had green cards or visas and those who did not.
特朗普最初的禁令是在1月27日颁发的，它引发了美国机场的混乱场面以及大规模的抗议活动。当时是周五下午，禁令突然发出，暂时禁止来自七个以穆斯林为主的国家的人入境，对这些国家的公民是否已经拥有绿卡或签证并没有做出明确区分。
Trump has reacted with fury to unfavorable court rulings in the past, savaging the judiciary after the court in Seattle blocked major parts of his first travel order and singling out the judge for derision on Twitter.
对于法院之前做出的不利于这项禁令的裁决，特朗普进行了愤怒回应，在西雅图那家法院的法官阻止了他的第一个禁令的主要部分之后，特朗普向司法体系发飙，并在Twitter上嘲笑了那名法官。