A federal appeals court on Tuesday denied the Obama administration's request to lift a hold on the president's executive actions on immigration, which would have granted protection from deportation as well as work permits to millions of immigrants in the country illegally.
周二，一家联邦上诉法院否决了奥巴马政府的请求，将继续禁止总统移民政令的实施。这些政令旨在为国内的大批非法移民提供免受驱逐的保护以及工作许可。
Two of three judges on a panel of the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, in New Orleans, left in place an injunction by a federal district judge in Brownsville, Texas. The ruling comes in a lawsuit by 26 states against actions President Barack Obama took in November. Many of the initiatives were scheduled to take effect this month.
新奥尔良的联邦第五巡回上诉法院(5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals)的合议庭上，三位法官中有两位决定，保留德克萨斯州布朗斯维尔的一位联邦地区法官发出的禁令。那项裁决来自26个州对奥巴马总统去年11月的一些措施的诉讼。其中许多计划定于本月生效。
The appeals court found that Texas and the other states had sufficient legal grounds to bring the lawsuit and that the administration had not shown that it would be harmed if the injunction remained in the place and the programs were further delayed.
这家上诉法院发现，德克萨斯等州有足够的法律依据提出起诉，而奥巴马政府则未能证明如果禁令继续生效，以及总统计划进一步推迟，自身会遭受不利影响。
The appeals judges also denied a request by the administration to limit the injunction to the states bringing the lawsuit. The ruling is a second setback for programs the president hoped would be a major piece of his legacy, raising new uncertainty about whether they will take effect before the end of his term and casting doubts on the confidence of administration lawyers that their case was very strong.
上诉法院的法官们还拒绝了奥巴马政府的另一项请求，即把禁令限制在发起诉讼的各州。总统本希望这些举措能成为他的一项重要政绩，而此次的裁决是该计划第二次遭受挫折，令人怀疑它在奥巴马任期内能否生效，也动摇了政府律师对其主张合理性的信心。
Texas is leading the states in the lawsuit, which was filed in December. On Feb. 16, Judge Andrew S. Hanen, of U.S. District Court in Brownsville imposed a preliminary injunction on the programs while he ruled on the constitutional issues in the suit.
德克萨斯州于去年12月率领其他州提起了诉讼。今年2月16日，布朗斯维尔联邦地区法院法官安德鲁·S·哈宁(Andrew S.Hanen)宣布了对奥巴马的举措的初步禁令，同时对诉讼中的宪法问题做出了裁决。
In a statement, Ken Paxton, the attorney general of Texas, said Obama had tried to impose “a drastic change in immigration policy” without the consent of Congress. The appeals court decision is “a victory for those committed to preserving the rule of law in America,” Paxton said.
德克萨斯州总检察长肯·帕克斯顿(Ken Paxton)在一份声明中说，奥巴马试图在没有征得国会同意的情况下实施“移民政策的重大改变”。帕克斯顿说，上诉法院的决定“是那些致力于保护美国法治的人们的一次胜利”。
The decision by the 5th Circuit to leave the Texas judge's injunction in place does not necessarily mean the Obama administration will lose the larger case. Legal experts said it was still possible that the administration could win the overall appeal.
第五巡回上诉法院的决定保留了德克萨斯州法官的禁令，但这并不一定意味着奥巴马政府会输掉整个案子。法律专家称，奥巴马政府仍然有望在总体上赢得上诉。