WASHINGTON — A federal judge sharply rebuked the National Security Agency in 2011 for gathering and storing tens of thousands of Americans’ e-mails each year as it hunted for terrorists and other legitimate foreign targets, according to the top secret court ruling, which was made public on Wednesday.
华盛顿——本周三公布的一份高度机密的法庭裁决显示，2011年，一名联邦法官曾尖锐地批评美国国家安全局(National Security Agency)在追捕恐怖分子和其他合法的外国目标时，每年收集和存储数万美国人的电子邮件。
The 85-page ruling by Judge John D. Bates, then serving on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, involved an N.S.A. program that searches Americans’ international Internet communications for discussion of foreigners under surveillance. Judge Bates found that the agency had violated the Constitution for several years and declared the problems part of a pattern of “misrepresentation” by agency officials in submissions to the secret court.
这份85页的裁决由当时在外国情报监视法庭(Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court)任职的法官约翰·D·贝茨(John D. Bates)做出，它涉及国安局的一项计划，为了获取有关受监控外国人的讨论，搜索美国人的国际网络通讯记录。贝茨法官发现，国安局违宪已有数年，并宣布，该局官员惯于在提交监视法庭的文件中进行“事实曲解”，而此份裁决反映的问题只是遵循了这一做法而已。
The release of the ruling, under pressure from a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit, was the latest effort by the Obama administration to contain revelations about N.S.A. surveillance prompted by leaks by the former agency contractor Edward J. Snowden.
迫使裁决公布的是一起根据《信息自由法》(Freedom of Information Act)提起的诉讼。此次公布是奥巴马政府在前国安局承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄密之后，为了控制更多人揭露出国安局监听项目的更多内容而做出的最新努力。
The documents showed that the problems, which the agency brought to the court’s attention after they had gone on for several years, were relatively small compared with the scale of N.S.A. surveillance. The ruling estimated that the agency intercepts more than 250 million communications each year from the United States as it targets foreign citizens abroad. And the N.S.A. fixed the problems to the court’s satisfaction, the documents showed.
文件显示，这样的问题在引起法庭注意之前已经持续了数年之久。相比国安局监听项目的规模，纯粹收集自国内的信息数量算不得什么。法庭裁决估计，在追踪境外外国公民时，国安局每年都会拦截始自美国的通讯记录，次数超过了2.5亿次。文件显示，国安局为了让法庭满意，而在提交的材料中修改了它处理国内信息的手段。
But the documents also revealed further problems. Judge Bates portrayed the issue as only the latest time the agency had misled the oversight court about its domestic spying activities.
不过，文件还披露了更深次的问题。贝茨法官描述说，国安局在其国内监控活动上曾误导监视法庭，而当前问题只不过是它最近一次这样的行为。
“The court is troubled that the government’s revelations regarding N.S.A.’s acquisition of Internet transactions mark the third instance in less than three years in which the government has disclosed a substantial misrepresentation regarding the scope of a major collection program,” he wrote.
他写道，“让法庭感到棘手的是，这是政府在不到三年的时间里，第三次披露国安局获取网上交流记录的情况，这一次，政府也同样披露了涉及一个重大信息收集项目范围的、大量的事实曲解。”
One of the examples, he wrote, was redacted in the ruling. Another involved a separate N.S.A. program that keeps logs of all domestic phone calls, which the court approved in 2006 and which came to light in June as a result of leaks by Mr. Snowden.
他写道，其中的一个案例在裁决书里被修订过了。还有一个案例则涉及国安局的另一项计划，收集所有的国内通话记录。该计划于2006得到法庭的批准，由于斯诺登的泄密，于今年6月遭到曝光。
The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a free speech and privacy rights group, sued to obtain the ruling after Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee, fought last summer to declassify information that the surveillance court had ruled that the N.S.A. had violated the Fourth Amendment. In a statement, Senator Wyden — an outspoken critic of N.S.A. surveillance — said declassification of the ruling was “long overdue.” He argued that while the N.S.A. had increased privacy protections for purely domestic and unrelated communications that were swept up in the surveillance, The collection itself “was a serious violation of the Fourth Amendment.”
倡导言论自由和隐私权的团体电子前沿基金会(Electronic Frontier Foundation)提出诉讼，要求获取监视法庭的裁决令。此前，参议员情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)成员、俄勒冈州民主党参议员罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)在去年夏天据理力争，要求解密监视法庭裁决国安局违反宪法第四修正案(Fourth Amendment)的相关信息。在一份声明中，国安局监控项目直言不讳的批评者怀登说，对裁决的解密“早就该进行了”。他辩称，对监控项目一并收集来的纯为国内通讯的记录和不相关记录，国安局已经加强了隐私保护，尽管如此，收集行为本身依然“严重地违反了宪法第四修正案”。
Mark Rumold of the Electronic Frontier Foundation praised the administration for releasing the document with relatively few redactions, although he criticized the time and the difficulty in obtaining it. But he also said that the ruling showed the surveillance court was not equipped to perform adequate oversight of the N.S.A.
电子前沿基金会的马克·鲁莫尔德(Mark Rumold)赞扬当局披露的文件只做出了相对较少的过滤，虽然他对获取文件的时间之长和困难之大提出了批评。不过他也说，裁决显示，监视法庭配置不足，无法称职地监管国安局。
“This opinion illustrates that the way the court is structured now it cannot serve as an effective check on the N.S.A. because it’s wholly dependent on the representations that the N.S.A. makes to it,” Mr. Rumold said. “It has no ability to investigate. And it’s clear that the N.S.A. representations have not been entirely candid to the court.”
鲁莫尔德说，“这个观点说明，监视法庭现在的组成方式决定了它无法对国安局做出有效的审查，原因是它完全依靠国安局对它做出的陈述来进行判断。它没有能力进行调查。显而易见，国安局没有向法庭做出完全坦白的陈述。”
A senior intelligence official, speaking to reporters in a background conference call, portrayed the ruling as showing that N.S.A. oversight was robust and serious. He said that some 300 N.S.A. employees were assigned to seek out even inadvertent violations of the rules and that the court conducted “vigorous” oversight.
在一次背景电话会议上对记者发言的高级情报官员描述道，裁决显示了监视法庭对国安局的监督是有力而严谨的。他说，大约有300名国安局雇员被指派寻找甚至是无意犯下的违规行为，法庭也对它进行了“积极的”监督。
The ruling focused on a program under which the N.S.A. has been searching domestic Internet links for communications — where at least one side is overseas — in which there are “strong selectors” indicating insider knowledge of someone who has been targeted for foreign-intelligence collection. One example would be mentioning a person’s private e-mail address in the body of an e-mail.
此项裁决把关注点放在了一个项目上，根据该项目，国安局一直在搜索国内网络通讯记录，但至少有一方身处海外，通讯中也存在“明显的选择因素”，显示出国安局在外国情报收集中追踪的某个人的内幕信息。一个例子就是，在电子邮件正文中提到某人的私人邮件地址。
A Justice Department “white paper” released with the ruling shed new light on N.S.A. surveillance of communications streaming across domestic telecommunications networks. Such “upstream” collection, which still must be targeted at or be about noncitizens abroad, accounts for about 10 percent of all the Internet messages collected in the United States, it said; the other 90 percent are obtained from Internet companies under the system the N.S.A. calls Prism.
和裁决同时颁布的司法部(Justice Department)“白皮书”进一步揭示了，国安局如何对整个国内电讯网络实施监控。白皮书说，这种从“上游”收集信息的行为，其对象一定是境外非美国公民，或者与境外非美国公民有关，此类信息大约占到美国收集的互联网讯息的10%；其余90%的信息来自国安局“棱镜”(Prism)系统内的互联网公司。
The administration also released a partially redacted semiannual report about “compliance” incidents, or mistakes involving the privacy rights of Americans or people in the United States. It found that there had been no willful violations of the rules, and that fewer than 1 percent of queries by analysts involved errors.
当局还公布了一份经过部分过滤的半年度报告，内容涉及“合规”事件，或涉及与美国人和在美人士隐私权有关的违规行为。该报告得出结论说，不存在有意的违规行为，分析员提出的质疑中，只有不到1%牵涉到错误行为。
The document also showed that the government recently changed the rules to allow N.S.A. and C.I.A. analysts to search its databases of recorded calls and e-mails using search terms designed to find information involving American citizens, not foreigners — an issue that has long concerned Senator Wyden and that was mentioned in a document leaked by Mr. Snowden and published by The Guardian.
报告还显示，美国政府最近改变了规则，允许国安局和中央情报局(CIA)的分析员利用搜索词搜索它的电话和电子邮件数据库，搜索词的设计目标是寻找相关的美国公民，而非外国人的信息，长期以来，参议员怀登一直对这个问题感到担忧，斯诺登泄露的一份文件也提到了这个问题，《卫报》(The Guardian)对它进行了曝光。
The number of “selectors” designed to filter out and store communications targeted at foreigners had gone up steadily, the document said, although the numbers were redacted. And its increase is expected to “accelerate” because the F.B.I. recently made the ability to nominate people for such collection “more widely available to its field office personnel.”
文件说，虽然公布的数字经过了修订，然而“选择因素”的数量还是出现了稳步上升，设计选择因素的目的是过滤和存储针对外国人的通讯记录。由于联邦调查局(FBI)最近提出“让更广泛的驻外人员有能力”来提名信息收集人员，预计选择因素的增加将会“提速”。