Eggplant is often called “meaty,” by which we mean what, exactly? Substantial? Versatile? Flavorful?
人们常说茄子很像肉。这么说到底是什么意思呢？是说它很有质感？还是说它有很多种做法？还是说它很香？
All of the above, for sure (as well as tough and chewy on occasion; not necessarily a bad thing). But the comparison is no more fair to the aubergine than it would be to call a piece of beef “eggplanty.”
以上三点肯定都没错（另外它有时候还很硬，有嚼头，这也不是什么缺点）。但是这个比喻用在长茄子身上不太公平，它应该被称作一块带“茄子味”的牛肉。
Eggplant stands alone, a vegetable like no other. Actually, because eggplant is a fruit, like the tomato, to which it’s closely related, it’s safer to label it a food like no other, beloved and appreciated worldwide and deserving of respect, not as a meat substitute but as a treasure in itself.
茄子是独一无二的蔬菜。实际上，它和番茄一样是水果——茄子跟番茄的关系很密切。所以比较不会引起争议的说法是：它是独一无二的食物，世界各地的人们都喜爱欢吃茄子，这一点不能不让人佩服。它不是肉的替代品，它本身就很珍贵。
It isn’t a competition, but if you asked me the old desert-island question, I’d take eggplant before any meat I could think of (and, yes, that includes bacon). It would be ridiculous to claim that eggplant can outperform meat, but it’s not a stretch to see it as useful as any one cut of meat.
倒不是有意挑起竞争，但是如果你问我那个老问题：在荒岛上只能选一种食物，我会选什么？我肯定会选茄子，而不是我能想到任何肉类（是的，包括培根）。说茄子比肉还顶用是有点荒谬，但是说它和任何一块肉一样有用，还是很中肯的。
It can take myriad forms, as appetizer, side dish or sauce. It can fill the center of the plate as nicely as anything.
它能做成各种形式的菜：开胃菜、配菜或者酱。它也可以像其他任何东西一样，做成主菜，占据盘子的中央。
This isn’t the place to discuss health effects, but ever since people stopped believing that the nightshade family, of which it is a member, was poisonous, it’s been considered nothing but beneficial.
这里不是讨论健康效果，但是自从人们不再认为黑色的东西——比如茄子——是有毒的，茄子就被认为是有益无害的。
You can eat eggplant every day, in season at least, and all it’s going to do is make you happy.
你可以每天都吃茄子，至少应季的时候可以这样，而且这样做只会让你高兴。
This was reinforced for me three times this spring when I spent a little time in Sicily, where a warmer climate produces an earlier eggplant season.
今年春天我在西西里岛待了一小段时间，我的这个观点得到了三次印证。西西里岛温暖的气候让吃茄子的季节提前到来。
On the first occasion, I had the key ingredients for a mashed eggplant dish akin to baba ghanouj (eggplant, garlic and a wood fire) but no others.
而且我第一次得到了做茄子泥的关键配料——茄子、大蒜和柴火——别无其他。这道菜接近中东地区的茄子色拉。
I propped those eggplants against the coals and allowed them to blister, blacken and soften; I did pretty much the same with the garlic. As I was once taught in India, where eggplant is indigenous, I held the shriveled fruits up by their stems with one hand and peeled them with the other. The flesh I mashed with that of the softened garlic, lemon and salt for a dish nothing short of glorious.
我把茄子架在木炭上，让它们起泡、变黑、变软。大蒜也照此处理。就像我在印度（那里是茄子的原产地）学的那样，我一只手捏住枯萎的茄子的茎，另一只手给它去皮；再把茄肉和烤软的大蒜以及柠檬和盐拌在一起，做出来的菜非常好吃。
You cannot achieve the same flavor without a wood fire (even real charcoal is only second best), but roasting in a hot oven results in perfectly tender eggplant, which you can use for an ad hoc dish like the one I just described, or for classic baba ghanouj.
如果没有柴火，你做不出这种美味（甚至连真正的炭火也只是第二个最佳选择），但是在热烤箱里能烤出完美的嫩茄子，你能用它来做一道特殊的菜肴，就像我刚刚描述的那道菜，或者做经典的中东茄子沙拉。
This treatment addresses the most common question about eggplant, which is, “Should I salt it?” There is more than one answer: If you’re slicing eggplant and you’re looking for an ultra-firm (O.K., meaty) texture, salt the slices and after 30 to 60 minutes, press them between paper towels before cooking. This technique works with many vegetables, because the salt draws out moisture.
这种做法会引出一个最常见的问题：“要不要用盐腌？”这个问题有很多答案：如果你把茄子切成了块，而且希望茄肉特别紧实（好吧，想让它吃起来像肉），那么就把茄块用盐腌一下，过半小时或1小时后，在烹饪之前，用纸巾把茄子上的水挤干。用纸巾挤干水的方法适用于很多蔬菜，因为用盐腌会出水。
But if you imagine that you’re salting to draw out what used to be called “the bitter principle,” don’t bother. Eggplant isn’t bitter. That mashed wood-grilled eggplant was quite sweet, needing a lot of lemon. And if you’re salting because you think the eggplant will absorb less oil when it cooks, that’s a mistaken notion also. Eggplant is a sponge, and as long as you’re using good-tasting oil, it isn’t a problem. (As for the question “Should I peel it?” I think that with the exception of that blistered black skin in Sicily, I can unequivocally answer: never.)
但是如果你用盐腌是为了去除过去称为“苦味素”的物质，那就不要腌了。茄子不苦。用柴火烤的茄子泥很甜，需要加入很多柠檬。如果你用盐腌是为了让茄子少吸油，那也没有必要，因为那是一种误解。茄子就像海绵，肯定会吸油，但是只要你用的是好吃的油，那就没关系（至于要不要去皮的问题，我觉得除了在西西里岛烤出的那种枯萎的黑皮，其他的我可以明确告诉你：不要去皮）。
A couple of nights later, a friend made pasta alla Norma, a dish that is Sicilian. It’s really no more than lovingly sautéed eggplant finished in tomato sauce, tossed with pasta and topped with ricotta salata. Dry feta isn’t a bad substitute, and pecorino Romano and Parmesan are fine as well.
几天之后的一个夜晚，一个朋友做了茄子意面，它是西西里岛的特色美食。它的做法其实很简单，把茄子细心煎制之后，加入番茄酱，和意面搅在一起，上面撒上意大利乳清干酪。羊奶干酪是个不错的替代品，还可以用罗马诺羊乳干酪或帕尔马干酪。
While frying the eggplant, one of those leisurely kitchen tasks that takes a while but is nevertheless a pleasure, I was reminded of a variety of eggplant dishes I’ve eaten and made and savored over the years.
在煎茄子的时候——这是一件悠闲的差事，需要花些工夫，但是很有乐趣——我想起了这些年我吃过的、做过的和品尝过的几道茄子佳肴。
One was a version of Parmesan made at the sadly-now-closed Shiek’s in Torrington, Conn., in which the eggplant was salted and pressed into thin, tough slices before layering with way too much mozzarella, in true Italian-American style. Also memorable were the various versions of boiled eggplant you see in Japan, one of which I’ve replicated here. (If you have never boiled eggplant, you must try this one.)
其中一道菜是帕尔马城的一种做法，我是在康涅狄格州托林顿的Shiek’s餐厅吃到的，可惜这家餐厅现在已经关门了。茄子在盐腌之后，被压成细细的硬长条，然后一层一层地放上很多马苏里拉奶酪，是真正的意大利美国风味。另一种让人印象深刻的做法是在日本看到的各种煮茄子，我在这里复制了其中一种做法（如果你从没做过煮茄子，那你一定要试试这个）。
There was the incomparable dish of mostly eggplant skin, it seemed to me, along with cherry tomatoes and loads of basil and oil, highly unusual and incredibly enjoyable, at La Tavernetta, in Naples.
在我看来，那不勒斯的La Tavernetta餐厅做的茄子无与伦比，它主要是用茄子皮做成的，另外还加入了圣女果，以及大量的罗勒和油，非常特别，极其好吃。
And there were the various “why is this so good?” Sichuan eggplant recipes (answer: they’re fried) as well as the perhaps overrated Turkish classic imam biyaldi, which translated means “the priest fainted,” and my first baingan bharta, which I made myself at home, from a Julie Sahni recipe, and in which the eggplant is roasted in precisely the same way as it is for baba ghanouj.
川菜中有很多好吃的茄子菜肴，让人忍不住想问：“为什么会这么好吃呀？”（答案是它们被煎过了）。土耳其经典菜肴imam biyaldi多少有点名不符实，这道菜的名字翻译过来就是“晕倒的神父”。我第一次做焗茄子是在家里按照朱莉·萨尼(Julie Sahni)的菜谱做的，这道菜中茄子的烤法跟中东茄子沙拉的烤法一模一样。
My final Sicilian eggplant dish was at Ardigna, a restaurant in the remote, nearly deserted hills east of Marsala, where the antipasti was varied and sensational. A friend had told me this was “the only restaurant that matters,” which was perhaps a bit extreme. But among the dishes was a caponata so inspiring that, back home, I searched for and found in Chinatown, naturally, a few of those long, slender, lavender eggplants, and made a caponata of my own.
西西里岛让我印象深刻的最后一道茄子菜是在Ardigna餐厅吃的，这家餐厅位于马萨拉东部偏僻的、几乎荒芜的山区，它的餐前小吃多样而美味。一个朋友跟我说这家餐厅“是唯一值得一去的餐厅”，这种说法也许有点极端。但是其中一道茄子什蔬开胃菜太美味了，以至于我回家后到处寻找这种淡紫色的长条嫩茄子（最后当然是在中国城找到了）然后自己做了一道这样的菜。
Over fairly high heat, I softened sliced onions and green bell pepper in plenty of olive oil. As they cooked, I chopped and added the eggplant, along with crushed dried red peppers, capers, pine nuts, chopped green olives, raisins and a bit of sugar. After that had all cooked down, I stirred in tomato paste and vinegar.
我把切碎的洋葱和青椒放入很多橄榄油中，用大火炒软。其间，我把茄子切好、放入，同时还放了干红碎辣椒、刺山柑、松仁、切碎的绿橄榄、葡萄干和一点儿糖。这些都炒好之后，搅入番茄酱和醋。
I then ate a bit, packed up the rest, hit the road and proceeded to virtually live on it for two days. Show me a meat dish you can say that about.
然后我吃了一点，把剩下的打包，开始上路，接下来的两天我几乎每顿都是吃这道菜。你告诉我有哪道肉菜能让人爱吃到这种地步。
Pasta alla Norma
茄子意面
TOTAL TIME
总计用时：
About 45 minutes
45分钟
INGREDIENTS
配料：
1 1/2 pounds eggplant
1.5磅茄子
Olive oil as needed (at least 1/2 cup）
橄榄油（按需使用，至少1/2杯）
Salt and pepper
盐和胡椒
1 tablespoon chopped garlic
1汤匙切碎的大蒜
3 or 4 dried chiles
3或4个干辣椒
1 1/2 pounds tomatoes, chopped (canned are fine; about 1 can)
1.5磅番茄，切碎（罐装的也可以，大约需要1罐）
1 teaspoon good dried oregano, or 1 tablespoon fresh
1茶匙上好的干牛至，或者1汤匙鲜牛至
1 pound long pasta
1磅长意面
1/2 cup chopped parsley or basil
1/2杯切碎的欧芹或罗勒
1/2 cup grated ricotta salata (or in a pinch, pecorino Romano)
1/2杯磨碎的意大利乳清干酪（也可用罗马诺羊乳干酪应急）
PREPARATION 
制作方法：
1.Slice the eggplant about 1/2 inch thick. Cook in abundant olive oil, without crowding, sprinkling with salt and adding more oil as needed. You will undoubtedly have to cook in batches; take your time and cook until the eggplant is nicely browned and soft. Remove to a plate; do not drain on paper towels. Meanwhile, put a large pot of water to boil and salt it.
1. 把茄子切成约0.5英寸厚。用大量橄榄油煎，一次不要煎太多，撒上盐，需要的话再加点油。肯定需要分批煎，不要着急，要把茄子煎成诱人的焦黄色，使其变软。移到盘子上，不要用纸巾吸干油。同时，烧一大锅水，加盐。
At the end of the cooking the eggplant, the pan will ideally have a couple of tablespoons of oil left. If there’s more or less, drain some off or add a bit. Turn the heat to medium, add the garlic and chiles, and cook until the garlic colors a little bit. Add the tomatoes and oregano, along with some salt and pepper; cook until saucy but not too dry, stirring occasionally.
2. 茄子煎好之后，锅底最好留有两三汤匙油。多了的话，去掉一点；不够的话，再加一点。调成中火，加入大蒜和干辣椒，大蒜微微变黄之后，加入番茄和牛至以及盐和胡椒。炒至番茄变稠，但不要太干，偶尔翻搅。
3.Cook the pasta until tender but not mushy. While it’s cooking, cut the eggplant into strips and reheat for a minute in the tomato sauce. Drain the pasta and toss it with the tomato sauce and the eggplant. Taste and adjust the seasoning, then top with the parsley or basil and grated cheese and serve.
3.把意面煮软，但也不要煮过了。煮面的时候，把茄子切成条状，放入番茄酱中加热一分钟。把意面晾干，搅入番茄酱和茄子中。尝尝味道，适当调味，然后在上面放上欧芹或罗勒以及磨碎的干酪，上桌。
YIELD
份量：
4 to 6 servings
4至6人份。
Eggplant Salad with Mustard-Miso Dressing
芥末味增茄子沙拉
TOTAL TIME
总计用时：
About 30 minutes
30分钟
INGREDIENTS 
配料： 
1 pound eggplant
1磅茄子
Salt and cayenne pepper to taste
盐和辣椒粉（用量依口味而定）
1/3 cup white or other miso, or to taste
1/3杯白味增或其他味增（用量也可依口味而定）
1 tablespoon soy sauce, or to taste
1汤匙酱油（用量也可依口味而定）
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard, or to taste
1汤匙第戎芥末（用量也可依口味而定）
Lemon wedges
几块柠檬角
PREPARATION
制作方法：
1.Bring a large pot of water to a boil and salt it. Trim the eggplant and cut it into 1-inch cubes. Boil the eggplant until tender, 5 to 10 minutes. Drain and cool in a colander. (You can refrigerate the eggplant, covered, for several hours before proceeding, but bring it back to room temperature before proceeding.)
1. 把一大锅水烧开，加入盐。把茄子的硬茎去掉，切成1英寸大小的立方体。把茄子煮软，约需5至10分钟。用漏勺空干水，晾凉。（你可以把茄子放入冰箱，盖上盖子，冷藏几个小时，不过在继续烹制之前要拿出来，放至室温。）
2.Whisk together the miso, soy sauce and mustard in a serving bowl. Add the eggplant along with salt and cayenne to taste, then toss. Taste and adjust seasoning if necessary, and serve with the lemon wedges.
2. 在上菜的碗里把味增、酱油和芥末拌匀。加入茄子以及盐和辣椒粉调味，然后搅拌。尝一尝，适当调味。和柠檬角一起上桌。
YIELD
份量：
4 servings
4人份。
Baingan Bharta
焗茄子
TOTAL TIME
总计用时：
About 45 minutes
约45分钟
INGREDIENTS
配料：
2 pounds eggplant
2磅茄子
2 tablespoons lime juice
2汤匙酸橙汁
2 to 3 tablespoons vegetable oil
2至3汤匙植物油
1 medium onion, peeled and chopped
1个中等大小的洋葱，去皮，切碎
3 cloves garlic, peeled and finely chopped
3个蒜瓣，去皮，切碎
1 fresh hot green chile like a jalapeño, or more to taste, thinly sliced (discard seeds for less heat)
1个新鲜的绿辣椒，比如墨西哥辣椒，要想更入味，切成细丝（不想太辣的话，去籽）
1 pound fresh tomatoes, chopped
1磅鲜番茄，切碎
1/2 teaspoon turmeric
1/2茶匙姜粉
1 teaspoon kosher salt or to taste
1茶匙粗盐（用量也可依口味而定）
1/2 cup chopped cilantro, thin stems included
1/2杯切碎的芫荽，保留细茎
2 tablespoons garam masala
2汤匙印度咖喱粉
PREPARATION
制作方法：
1.Prick the eggplant with a thin-blade knife. Grill over or next to very high heat, turning as necessary until the skin is blackened and the eggplant collapses. Or broil, or roast on a heated cast-iron pan in the hottest possible oven. It will take about 20 minutes.
1. 用细刃小刀把茄子劈开。在非常热的火上或火边烤茄子，适当转动，直至皮变黑，茄子萎缩。或者在加热的铸铁煎锅上烤一下，火要尽量大。约需20分钟。
2.When the eggplant is cool enough to handle, peel (this will be easy) and trim away the hard stem. Chop or mash in a bowl, with lime juice.
2. 当茄子晾到可以用手拿的时候，去皮（这会很简单），去掉硬茎。剁碎或在碗里捣成糊状，加入酸橙汁。
3.Heat the oil in a skillet over medium-high heat; add the onion. Cook, stirring often, until the onion is golden brown, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic and chiles and cook for another minute. Add the tomato, turmeric and salt. Cook until the tomato is soft, 5 minutes or so.
3. 用中火在平底煎锅中把油加热，加入洋葱。不断翻炒，直至洋葱变成金黄色，约需10分钟。加入大蒜和辣椒，再炒一分钟。加入番茄、姜粉和盐。炒至番茄变软，约需5分钟。
4.Stir in the eggplant purée and cook, stirring, 3 to 5 minutes. Stir in the cilantro and garam masala and turn off the heat. Serve hot with warm chapati bread or pita, or over rice.
4. 搅入茄泥，翻炒3至5分钟。搅入芫荽和咖喱粉，关火。趁热和热的印度薄饼、皮塔饼和米饭一起上桌。
YIELD
份量：
4 servings
4人份