When Christopher Herrera, 17, walked into the emergency room at Texas Children’s Hospital one morning last year, his chest, face and eyes were bright yellow — “almost highlighter yellow,” recalled Dr. Shreena S. Patel, the pediatric resident who treated him.
去年的一个早晨，17岁的克里斯托弗·赫雷拉(Christopher Herrera)走进德克萨斯州儿童医院(Texas Children’s Hospital)的急诊室。他的胸膛、脸颊和眼睛看起来都黄灿灿的——“简直像荧光笔的那种亮黄色，”负责对他进行治疗的儿科住院医师希瑞娜·S·帕特尔(Shreena S. Patel)回忆道。
Christopher, a high school student from Katy, Tex., suffered severe liver damage after using a concentrated green tea extract he bought at a nutrition store as a “fat burning” supplement. The damage was so extensive that he was put on the waiting list for a liver transplant.
克里斯托弗是德克萨斯州凯蒂市的一名高中生。他在服用了从营养保健品商店中购买的“燃烧脂肪”补充剂（一种浓缩型绿茶提取物）后，发生了严重的肝损伤。由于损伤的范围过于广泛，他被列入轮候名单，等待接受肝移植。
“It was terrifying,” he said in an interview. “They kept telling me they had the best surgeons, and they were trying to comfort me. But they were saying that I needed a new liver and that my body could reject it.”
“这太可怕了，”他在接受采访时说，“他们一直对我说他们有最好的外科医生，他们都试图安慰我。可他们还说，我需要一个新的肝脏，而我的身体却可能排斥它。”
New data suggests that his is not an isolated case. Dietary supplements account for nearly 20 percent of drug-related liver injuries that turn up in hospitals, up from 7 percent a decade ago, according to an analysis by a national network of liver specialists. The research included only the most severe cases of liver damage referred to a representative group of hospitals around the country, and the investigators said they were undercounting the actual number of cases.
新的数据表明，克里斯托弗的病例并不是一个孤立的个案。美国肝脏专家全国网络进行的一项分析显示，因膳食补充剂导致的肝损伤约占院内所有药物相关性肝损伤的20%，较之十年前的7%大幅增加。需要说明的是，该研究中仅纳入了转诊入美国一组代表性医院中的最严重的肝损伤病例，调查人员称，他们的统计数据其实还低于病例的实际数量。
While many patients recover once they stop taking the supplements and receive treatment, a few require liver transplants or die because of liver failure. Naïve teenagers are not the only consumers at risk, the researchers said. Many are middle-aged women who turn to dietary supplements that promise to burn fat or speed up weight loss.
虽然许多患者在停止服用补充剂并接受治疗后恢复了健康，但也有少数患者需要接受肝移植或因为肝脏衰竭而死亡。研究人员说。天真幼稚的青少年并非唯一处于危险之中的消费者人群，很多轻信膳食补充剂“燃烧脂肪”或“快速减肥”宣传的中年女性壮大了这一队伍。
“It’s really the Wild West,” said Dr. Herbert L. Bonkovsky, the director of the liver, digestive and metabolic disorders laboratory at Carolinas HealthCare System in Charlotte, N.C. “When people buy these dietary supplements, it’s anybody’s guess as to what they’re getting.”
“这片领域简直像拓荒时代的蛮荒西部，”卡罗来纳医疗保健系统（Carolinas HealthCare System，位于美国北卡罗来纳州夏洛特市）肝脏、消化和代谢性疾病实验室的主任赫伯特·L·邦考夫斯基(Herbert L. Bonkovsky)博士说。“当人们购买这些膳食补充剂时，谁也说不准他们到底买到了些什么。”
Though doctors were able to save his liver, Christopher can no longer play sports, spend much time outdoors or exert himself, lest he strain the organ. He must make monthly visits to a doctor to assess his liver function.
尽管医生们能够挽救克里斯托弗的肝脏，但他再也不能参加体育运动，不能再长时间地从事户外活动或尽情地挥洒汗水，他不得不小心翼翼，唯恐令自己的肝脏不堪重负。他每个月都必须到医生那里接受检查，以评估肝脏功能。
Americans spend an estimated $32 billion on dietary supplements every year, attracted by unproven claims that various pills and powders will help them lose weight, build muscle and fight off everything from colds to chronic illnesses. About half of Americans use dietary supplements, and most of them take more than one product at a time.
膳食补充剂往往标榜自己能够帮助减肥、塑造肌肉、包治百病（从抗感冒到治疗慢性疾病等等不一而足）。受到这些天花乱坠但未经证实的“功能”的蛊惑，美国人每年在此类药丸和粉末上面的花销估计可达320亿美元。约有一半的美国人在服用膳食补充剂，且他们中的大多数人都同时服用了多种产品。
Dr. Victor Navarro, the chairman of the hepatology division at Einstein Healthcare Network in Philadelphia, said that while liver injuries linked to supplements were alarming, he believed that a majority of supplements were generally safe. Most of the liver injuries tracked by a network of medical officials are caused by prescription drugs used to treat things like cancer, diabetes and heart disease, he said.
爱因斯坦医疗保健网络（Einstein Healthcare Network，位于美国费城）肝病部的主席维克多·纳瓦罗(Victor Navarro)博士表示，虽然补充剂与肝损伤之间的关联令人震惊和忧虑，但他相信大多数补充剂还是比较安全的。医务人员网络跟踪到的肝损伤大多是因治疗癌症、糖尿病和心脏病等疾病的处方药造成，他说。
But the supplement business is largely unregulated. In recent years, critics of the industry have called for measures that would force companies to prove that their products are safe, genuine and made in accordance with strict manufacturing standards before they reach the market.
但膳食补充剂行业在很大程度上并未受到监管。近年来，该行业的批评者呼吁，应采取措施迫使生产企业保证其产品的安全性和真实性，且产品在上市前遵循了严格的生产标准。
But a federal law enacted in 1994, the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act, prevents the Food and Drug Administration from approving or evaluating most supplements before they are sold. Usually the agency must wait until consumers are harmed before officials can remove products from stores. Because the supplement industry operates on the honor system, studies show, the market has been flooded with products that are adulterated, mislabeled or packaged in dosages that have not been studied for safety.
然而，1994年颁布的一项联邦法律《膳食补充剂健康教育法》(Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act)阻碍了美国食品和药品监督管理局(Food and Drug Administration, FDA)在补充剂上市前对其进行评估或审批。因此，通常只有等到消费者受到损害后，该机构的官员才能责令相应的产品下市。由于补充剂行业依赖信誉体系运转，研究显示，目前在市场上充斥着假冒伪劣产品，部分产品标签使用不当或者其包装剂量未经安全性研究的确认。
The new research found that many of the products implicated in liver injuries were bodybuilding supplements spiked with unlisted steroids, and herbal pills and powders promising to increase energy and help consumers lose weight.
这项新研究发现，涉嫌造成肝损伤的产品主要有两大类；一类号称健美塑身类膳食补充剂，但其中掺入了说明书上未列出的类固醇成分；另一类是草药药丸和粉末，自称可以增强体力提升精力，并可帮助消费者减肥。
“There unfortunately are criminals that feel it’s a business opportunity to spike some products and sell them as dietary supplements,” said Duffy MacKay, a spokesman for the Council for Responsible Nutrition, a supplement industry trade group. “It’s the fringe of the industry, but as you can see, it is affecting some consumers.” More popular supplements like vitamins, minerals, probiotics and fish oil had not been linked to “patterns of adverse effects,” he said.
“不幸的是，某些不法之徒觉得‘膳食补充剂’这个招牌是销售假冒伪劣产品的天赐良机，”可靠营养品协会（Council for Responsible Nutrition，一个补充剂行业的贸易团体）的发言人达菲·麦凯(Duffy MacKay)表示。“这是该行业的边缘地带，但正如你所看到的那样，它影响到了一部分消费者。其实，人们使用更为普遍的补充剂，如维生素、矿物质、益生菌以及鱼油等与“不良影响的模式”并没有什么关联，他说。
The F.D.A. estimates that 70 percent of dietary supplement companies are not following basic quality control standards that would help prevent adulteration of their products. Of about 55,000 supplements that are sold in the United States, only 170 — about 0.3 percent — have been studied closely enough to determine their common side effects, said Dr. Paul A. Offit, the chief of infectious diseases at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and an expert on dietary supplements.
F.D.A.估计，有70%的膳食补充剂公司没有遵循基本的质量控制标准，而这些标准将有助于防止生产厂家在其产品中掺假。在美国市面上销售的约5.5万种补充剂中，仅有170种——约0.3%——接受过足以确定其常见副作用的严密研究，费城儿童医院(Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia)小儿传染病部门的主任，膳食补充剂专家保罗·A·奥夫特(Paul A. Offit)博士说。
“When a product is regulated, you know the benefits and the risks and you can make an informed decision about whether or not to take it,” he said. “With supplements, you don’t have efficacy data and you don’t have safety data, so it’s just a black box.”
“只有当某一产品受到法规的监管时，你才能够明确把握其带来的效益和风险，并就是否服用它做出明智的决策，”他说。“而补充剂并没有提供任何疗效数据和安全性数据，它对你来说就像是个黑匣子。”
Since 2008, the F.D.A. has been taking action against companies whose supplements are found to contain prescription drugs and controlled substances, said Daniel Fabricant, the director of the division of dietary supplement programs in the agency’s Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. For example, the agency recently took steps to remove one “fat burning” product from shelves, OxyElite Pro, that was linked to one death and dozens of cases of hepatitis and liver injury in Hawaii and other states.
2008年以来，FDA已对经查其补充剂产品含有处方药物和受管制物质的公司采取了行动，该机构的食品安全与应用营养学中心(Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition)膳食补充剂计划部的主任丹尼尔·法布里坎特(Daniel Fabricant)指出。例如，该机构最近采取措施，将一种“燃烧脂肪”的产品强制下架。该产品名为OxyElite Pro（减脂精英），现已确定，其与美国夏威夷州和其他几个州中发生的一例死亡和数十例肝炎及肝损伤病例有关。
The new research, presented last month at a conference in Washington, was produced by the Drug-Induced Liver Injury Network, which was established by the National Institutes of Health to track patients who suffer liver damage from certain drugs and alternative medicines. It includes doctors at eight major hospitals throughout the country.
这项新研究由药物诱导的肝损伤网络(Drug-Induced Liver Injury Network)于上个月在华盛顿的一次会议上发表。该组织为美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health, NIH)建立，旨在对因特定药物和替代性药物发生肝损伤的患者进行跟踪和随访，组织包括了全美八家主要医院的医生。
The investigators looked at 845 patients with severe, drug-induced liver damage who were treated at hospitals in the network from 2004 to 2012. It focused only on cases where the investigators ruled out other causes and blamed a drug or a supplement with a high degree of certainty.
调查人员研究了2004至2012年间，在该网络的医院中接受治疗的845名发生药物诱导的重度肝损伤患者，且仅侧重于经查排除了其他原因，调查人员有把握认定患者的肝损伤应归咎于某种药物或补充剂的那些病例。
When the network began tracking liver injuries in 2004, supplements accounted for 7 percent of the 115 severe cases. But the percentage has steadily risen, reaching 20 percent of the 313 cases recorded from 2010 to 2012.
2004年，当该网络开始跟踪肝损伤时，营养补充剂造成的病例仅占115例重症病例的7%。但该比例一直稳步上升，在2010年至2012年记录到的313例病例中，已经占到了20%。
Those patients included dozens of young men who were sickened by bodybuilding supplements. The patients all fit a similar profile, said Dr. Navarro, an investigator with the network.
该网络的调查人员之一纳瓦罗博士说，这些患者包括数十名因服用健美塑身类补充剂而致病的年轻男性，他们的病情都符合类似的特征。
“They become very jaundiced for long periods of time,” he said. “They itch really badly, to the point where they can’t sleep. They lose weight. They lose work. I had one patient who was jaundiced for six months.”
“他们的黄疸症状非常严重，且持续时间很长，”他说。“由于极度瘙痒，他们甚至无法入睡。他们的体重有所减轻，也丢掉了工作。我曾经遇到过一名患者黄疸持续了六个月。”
Tests showed that a third of the implicated products contained steroids not listed on their labels.
化验结果表明，在涉嫌致病的产品中，有三分之一含有未在产品标签中列出的类固醇成分。
A second trend emerged when Dr. Navarro and his colleagues studied 85 patients with liver injuries linked to herbal pills and powders. Two-thirds were middle-aged women, on average 48 years old, who often used the supplements to lose weight or increase energy. Nearly a dozen of those patients required liver transplants, and three died.
当纳瓦罗博士及其同事们研究了85例与草药药丸和粉末有关的肝损伤后，他们发现了第二种趋势：三分之二的患者为中年女性，平均年龄48岁，她们经常服用补充剂来减肥或提神。在这些患者中，有十来人需要接受肝移植，并发生了三例死亡。
It was not always clear what the underlying causes of injury were in those cases, in part because patients frequently combined multiple supplements and used products with up to 30 ingredients, said Dr. Bonkovsky, an investigator with the network.
目前尚不清楚在这些病例中肝脏受到损伤的根本原因为何，从一定程度上这是因为患者常常同时服用多种补充剂，且他们服用的产品中往往含有多达30种不同的成分，该网络的调查人员之一邦考夫斯基博士说。
But one product that patients used frequently was green tea extract, which contains catechins, a group of potent antioxidants that reputedly increase metabolism. The extracts are often marketed as fat burners, and catechins are often added to weight-loss products and energy boosters. Most green tea pills are highly concentrated, containing many times the amount of catechins found in a single cup of green tea, Dr. Bonkovsky said. In high doses, catechins can be toxic to the liver, he said, and a small percentage of people appear to be particularly susceptible.
但我们已经知道的是，患者最经常服用的产品之一是绿茶提取物，其中含有儿茶素（一组强力抗氧化剂），据说可增强新陈代谢。邦考夫斯基博士说，这类提取物往往以“脂肪燃烧弹”作为营销卖点，此外在减肥和提神产品中往往也都添加有儿茶素。大多数绿茶提取物药丸均为高浓缩型，其中所含的儿茶素可达单独一杯绿茶中含量的数倍。在高剂量下，儿茶素可能具有肝脏毒性，他说，而且，有一小部分人似乎对此格外易感。
But liver injuries attributed to herbal supplements are more likely to be severe and to result in liver transplants, Dr. Navarro said. And unlike prescription drugs, which are tightly regulated, dietary supplements typically carry no information about side effects. Consumers assume they have been studied and tested, Dr. Bonkovsky said. But that is rarely the case. “There is this belief that if something is natural, then it must be safe and it must be good,” he said.
纳瓦罗博士说，相对而言，草药类补充剂更容易造成重度肝损伤，甚至导致需要进行肝移植。不同于受到严格监管的处方药，膳食补充剂通常并不提供任何关于其副作用的资讯。邦考夫斯基博士则提醒说，消费者以为这些产品已经接受过研究和测试，但实际情况通常并非如此，他说：“人们总是抱持着这样一种错误的信念：如果什么东西是天然的，那么它必然就是安全的好东西。”