The bacterial makeup of the intestines may help determine whether people gain weight or lose it, according to two new studies, one in humans and one in mice.
从新近两项分别针对人类和小鼠的研究我们得知，肠道菌群的构成可以用来判断人的体重会增加还是减少。
The research also suggests that a popular weight-loss operation, gastric bypass, which shrinks the stomach and rearranges the intestines, seems to work in part by shifting the balance of bacteria in the digestive tract. People who have the surgery generally lose 65 percent to 75 percent of their excess weight, but scientists have not fully understood why. Now, the researchers are saying that bacterial changes may account for 20 percent of the weight loss.
研究还表明，常用的胃旁路手术，也就是通过缩胃、重新安排肠道位置以达到减肥目的的手术，其疗效似乎也跟改变了消化道菌群平衡有关。接受这种手术的人通常可以减去超重部分的65%到75%，但是科学家并不完全清楚为什么有这个效果。此次研究人员指出减重效果可能有两成是来自菌群的变化。
The findings mean that eventually, treatments that adjust the microbe levels, or “microbiota,” in the gut may be developed to help people lose weight without surgery, said Dr. Lee M. Kaplan, director of the obesity, metabolism and nutrition institute at the Massachusetts General Hospital, and an author of a study published Wednesday in Science Translational Medicine.
马萨诸塞州总医院(Massachusetts General Hospital)肥胖、代谢和营养研究所主任李·M·卡普兰医生(Dr. Lee M. Kaplan)说，这些研究成果意味着，通过调节肠内微生物水平或者说“微生物区系”，有望实现无需手术的减肥。卡普兰是周三发表在《科学转化医学》(Science Translational Medicine)上的一篇研究论文的其中一位作者。
Not everyone who hopes to lose weight wants or needs surgery to do it, he said. About 80 million people in the United States are obese, but only 200,000 a year have bariatric operations.
他说并非所有希望减肥的人都想要或需要手术。美国有8000万肥胖人士，但每年只有20万人接受减肥手术。
“There is a need for other therapies,” Dr. Kaplan said. “In no way is manipulating the microbiota going to mimic all the myriad effects of gastric bypass. But if this could produce 20 percent of the effects of surgery, it will still be valuable.”
“现在是需要找到其它的疗法，”卡普兰医生说。“胃旁路手术的诸多效果是不可能全部通过控制微生物区系来模仿的。但是如果它能产生手术的两成效果，那就还是有价值的。”
In people, microbial cells outnumber human ones, and the new studies reflect a growing awareness of the crucial role played by the trillions of bacteria and other microorganisms that live in their own ecosystem in the gut. Perturbations there can have profound and sometimes devastating effects.
人身上的微生物细胞的数量是超过人体细胞的，这次的研究反映出，我们越来越发现这些生活在自己的生态体系内的亿万细菌和微生物，在人体内脏中担负着至关重要的作用。它们的紊乱会产生极大影响，有时会是灾难性的。
One example is infection with a bacterium called C. difficile, which sometimes takes hold in people receiving antibiotics for other illnesses. The drugs can wipe out other organisms that would normally keep C. difficile in check. Severe cases can be life-threatening, and the medical profession is gradually coming to accept the somewhat startling idea that sometimes the best therapy is a fecal transplant — from a healthy person to the one who is sick, to replenish the population of “good germs.”
艰难梭菌感染就是其中一例，一些因其他病症接受抗生素治疗的人会出现这种情况。平时对艰难梭菌有抑制作用的生物体会被药物杀灭，情况严重时可以威胁到生命，医学界已经逐渐形成一个惊人的认识：有时候最佳的选择是灌注粪便，就是把健康者的粪便导入病人体内，以补充“好细菌”的数量。
Dr. Kaplan said his group’s experiments were the first to try to find out if microbial changes could account for some of the weight loss after gastric bypass. Earlier studies had shown that the microbiota of an obese person changed significantly after the surgery, becoming more like that of someone who was thin. But was the change from the surgery itself, or from the weight loss that followed the operation? And did the microbial change have any effects of its own?
卡普兰医生说，通过实验了解胃旁路手术后的减肥效果是否跟菌群变化有关，是他的团队首先在做。此前有研究显示，一个肥胖者的微生物区系在术后会发生剧烈改变，变得更接近瘦的人。但是这种改变是手术本身还是术后的减重带来的呢？微生物变化本身是不是造成了什么影响？
Because it would be difficult and time-consuming to study these questions in people, the researchers used mice, which they had fattened up with a rich diet. One group had gastric bypass operations, and two other groups had “sham” operations in which the animals’ intestines were severed and sewn back together. The point was to find out whether just being cut open, without having the bypass, would have an effect on weight or gut bacteria. One sham group was kept on the rich food, while the other was put on a weight-loss diet.
在人身上研究这些问题会有难度，并且很耗时，因此研究者使用了经过丰富食物喂养后变得很胖的小鼠。其中一组做了胃旁路手术，另外两组做了“假”手术，即将动物的肠切断再原样缝合回去。这样做的目的是要明确，仅仅是切开，没有做旁路，是否会对体重或肠道菌群构成影响。做了假手术的小鼠中，一组继续用丰富食物喂养，另一组则进行了减肥节食。
In the bypass mice, the microbial populations quickly changed, and the mice lost weight. In the sham group, the microbiota did not change much — even in those on the weight-loss diet.
做过旁路了小鼠体内微生物迅速发生改变，体重也下降了。在假手术组中，微生物区系没有发生太大改变——包括减肥节食的那组。
Next, the researchers transferred intestinal contents from each of the groups into other mice, which lacked their own intestinal bacteria. The animals that received material from the bypass mice rapidly lost weight; stool from mice that had the sham operations had no effect.
接下来，研究人员开始把这三组小鼠的肠内容物放入其他小鼠体内，后者自身的肠道菌群是不足的。那些接受了胃旁路术后小鼠的肠内容物的小鼠，体重很快开始下降；假手术组的粪便则没有带来任何变化。
Exactly how the altered intestinal bacteria might cause weight loss is not yet known, the researchers said. But somehow the microbes seem to rev up metabolism so that the animals burn off more energy.
研究人员称，目前还不清楚肠道菌群变化和体重下降究竟存在怎样的因果关系。但是这些微生物似乎加快了新陈代谢，让动物消耗了更多的能量。
A second study by a different group found that overweight people may be more likely to harbor a certain type of intestinal microbe. The microbes may contribute to weight gain by helping other organisms to digest certain nutrients, making more calories available. That study was published Tuesday in the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism.
另一组科研人员所作的研究发现，超重的人体内往往更有可能存在某种特定的肠道微生物。这种微生物有助于某些营养物质的消化，产生更多热量，从而促使体重增加。这项研究周二发表在《临床内分泌代谢杂志》(The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism)上。
The study involved 792 people who had their breath analyzed to help diagnose digestive orders. They agreed to let researchers measure the levels of hydrogen and methane; elevated levels indicate the presence of a microbe called Methanobrevibacter smithii. The people with the highest readings on the breath test were more likely to be heavier and have more body fat, and the researchers suspect that the microbes may be at least partly responsible for their obesity.
这项研究对792人的呼吸进行分析，帮助做出消化状况的诊断。经过这些人的同意，研究人员测量了呼吸中的氢与甲烷的水平；这个水平如果偏高，说明其体内存在一种叫史氏甲烷短杆菌的微生物。呼吸测试读数高的人体重会偏重，体脂更多，研究人员推测他们的肥胖可能至少在一定程度上是和这种微生物相关的。
This type of organism may have been useful thousands of years ago, when people ate more roughage and needed all the help they could get to squeeze every last calorie out of their food. But modern diets are much richer, said an author of the study, Dr. Ruchi Mathur, director of the diabetes outpatient clinic at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
这种生物体在几千年前大概是有用的，那时候的人会摄入更多的粗糙食物，需要尽可能把食物里的所有卡路里都吸收掉。然而本研究论文作者之一、洛杉矶西达-塞奈医院(Cedars-Sinai Medical Center)糖尿病门诊主任露奇·马瑟医生(Dr. Ruchi Mathur)说，现代人的饮食要比那时候有营养得多。
“Our external environment is changing faster than our internal one,” Dr. Mathur said. Studies are under way, she said, to find out whether getting rid of this particular microbe will help people lose weight.
马瑟医生说，“我们的外部环境变化要比我们的内部环境快。”她说目前正在研究，清除这种微生物是否可以达到减肥的效果。