Why is obesity soaring? The answer seems pretty clear. In 1955, a standard soda at McDonald’s was only seven ounces. Today, a medium is three times as large, and even a child’s-size version is 12 ounces. It’s a widely held view that obesity is a consequence of our behaviors, and that behavioral economics thus plays a central role in understanding it — with markets, preferences and choices taking center stage. As a behavioral economist, I subscribed to that view — until recently, when I began to question my thinking.
为什么肥胖现象正在飙升？答案似乎一目了然。1955年，麦当劳(McDonald’s)的标准杯汽水只有7盎司（约200克）。现如今，中杯已经是当年标准杯的三倍大，连儿童杯都有12盎司。人们普遍认为，肥胖是行为产生的后果，因此，在理解肥胖现象的过程中，行为经济学发挥着核心作用——市场、偏好和选择的概念占据了舞台的中心位置。身为一名行为经济学家，我过去一直赞同这种观点。不过最近，我却对自己的想法产生了怀疑。
For many health problems, of course, behavior plays some role but biology is often a major villain. “Biology” here is my catchall term for the myriad bodily mechanics that are only weakly connected to our choices. A few studies have led me to wonder whether the same is true with obesity. Have I been the proverbial owner of a (behavioral) hammer, looking for (behavioral) nails everywhere? Have I failed to appreciate the role of biology?
当然，在很多健康问题上，行为因素都起到了一定作用，但真正的罪魁往往是生物因素。在本文中，我用“生物”一词来泛指跟我们的主观选择之间关系很小的各种身体机制。了解到几项新研究成果之后，我不禁想，肥胖是否同样如此呢？我是不是谚语中那种有了（行为）钉锤就满世界寻找（行为）钉子的人呢？我以前是不是没有认清生物因素的作用？
A first warning sign comes from looking at other animals. Our pets have been getting fatter along with us. In 2012, some 58.3 percent of cats were, literally, fat cats. That is taken from a survey by the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention. (The very existence of this organization is telling.) Pet obesity, however, can easily be tied to human behavior: a culture that eats more probably feeds its animals more, too.
第一个警示来自对其他动物的研究。宠物也和我们一样，变得日趋肥胖。预防宠物肥胖协会(Association for Pet Obesity Prevention)的一项调查显示，2012年，约有58.3%的猫属于真正的肥猫。（有这么一家组织存在，已经很能说明问题了。）不过，宠物肥胖可以简单地归结到人类行为上：在一种吃得更多的文化中，主人很可能也会更多地给宠物喂食。
And yet, a study by a group of biostatisticians in the Proceedings of the Royal Society challenges this interpretation. They collected data from animals raised in captivity: macaques, marmosets, chimpanzees, vervets, lab rats and mice. The data came from labs and centers and spanned several decades. These captive animals are also becoming fatter: weight gain for female lab mice, for example, came out to 11.8 percent a decade from 1982 to 2003.
然而，一组生物统计学家在《英国皇家学会会刊》(Proceedings of the Royal Society)上发表的一篇研究论文质疑了这样的解释。他们搜集了圈养的恒河猴、狨猴、黑猩猩、黑长尾猴，以及实验室大鼠和小鼠的数据。这些数据来自实验室和研究中心，有几十年的时间跨度。结果显示，这些圈养动物也在变得越来越胖：1982年到2003年间，实验室雌性小鼠的体重每10年增长11.8%。
But this weight gain is harder to explain. Captive animals are fed carefully controlled diets, which the researchers argue have not changed for decades. Animal obesity cannot be explained through eating behavior alone. We must look to some other — biological — driver.
这种增重现象很难解释，因为圈养动物的饮食受到了严格控制。研究人员表示，它们吃的东西几十年来一直没有变化。动物的肥胖无法仅靠进食行为来解释。我们必须寻找其他方面的驱动因素，比如生物方面。
Fittingly, the study is titled “Canaries in the Coal Mine.” Could our inability to explain animal obesity with behavior be a warning sign? Perhaps we are also overlooking biological drivers for human obesity. But what might these culprits be?
这项研究有个恰如其分的题目，叫作《煤矿中的金丝雀》（Canaries in the Coal Mine，金丝雀对瓦斯十分敏感，因此以前矿工会把它放在矿坑里，用作早期示警——译注）我们无法用行为因素来解释动物的肥胖现象，这是一个警示吗？也许我们也小看了人类肥胖的生物驱动因素吧。那么，罪魁祸首可能会是什么呢？
A particularly interesting candidate resides in your gut. Your digestive system is actually a complex ecosystem, playing host to hundreds of species of bacteria that do things as diverse as fermenting undigested carbohydrates and providing vitamins. They also regulate how much fat your body stores.
一个特别有趣的潜在因素就驻留在你的肠道里。消化系统实际上是一个复杂的生态系统，成百上千种细菌在那里开展各种活动，比如让未消化的碳水化合物发酵、提供维生素等等。它们还能调节你身体储存的脂肪量。
Not everyone, however, has the same gut bacteria. And, interestingly, the composition of this bacteria correlates with obesity. Of course, this relationship could be simple: the obese eat differently, and therefore they have different bacteria.
不过，并非每个人都有同样的肠道菌群。而且，有趣的是，菌群的组成与肥胖有关。当然，这种关系可能很简单：胖人的饮食不同，所以他们的肠道菌群也不同。
But a recent study in the journal Science showed that cause and effect could go the other way as well. Researchers harvested bacteria from pairs of twin mice, where one twin was obese and the other was not. Then they transplanted these bacteria into different mice. The mice who received bacteria from the obese twin gained weight, while the others did not. The mice did not eat more: Their metabolism changed so that they put on more weight even with the same caloric input.
但是，《科学》杂志(Science)发表的一项近期研究表明，这种因果关系也有可能颠倒过来。研究人员从一些双胞胎小鼠身上取出细菌，双胞胎中有一只肥胖，另外一只不胖。然后，他们将细菌移植到不同的小鼠身上。接受了肥胖双胞胎菌群的小鼠体重增加了，其他小鼠则不然。这些小鼠的进食没有增加：是它们的新陈代谢变化导致了体重增加，即使摄入的热量不变。
What, then, determines your gut bacteria? It could be antibiotics or environmental toxins or how processed your food is. Another possibility is raised by a study in The New England Journal of Medicine that shows that obesity seems to “spread” across social networks, with people infecting their friends and neighbors. I had always assumed that was because birds of a feather flock together — and that is surely part of the explanation. But because gut bacteria can also spread among people in close proximity, perhaps the obesity epidemic really is, well, an epidemic?
那么，是什么决定了你的肠道菌群呢？有可能是抗生素、环境毒素或食品的加工方式。另外还有一种可能性：《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)上发表的一项研究表明，肥胖似乎能在社交网络中“传染”，让朋友和邻居感染上肥胖。我以前一直认为，那是物以类聚、人以群分的结果——这也确实是部分原因。不过，会不会是肠道菌群也可以在非常亲密的人之间传播，所以肥胖或许真的可以传染？
I’m not arguing that behavior does not matter. Biology and behavior often interact; the spread of flu depends on whether we wash our hands. Similarly, the bacteria study found that the “obese gut bacteria” had an impact only when the mice were fed diets heavy in saturated fats.
我不是说行为因素无所谓。生物因素和行为因素之间往往存在相互作用，比如流感的传播就跟我们是否勤洗手关系巨大。同样地，这项对细菌的研究也发现，只有当小鼠的饮食中含有大量饱和脂肪时，“肥胖肠道菌群”才会起到作用。
Perhaps most interestingly, changing biology may even be changing cravings. Some biologists have hypothesized that our gut bacteria actually drive cravings for certain unhealthy foods. A focus on biology doesn’t mean a reduced emphasis on behavior, just a richer understanding of it.
最有趣的大概是，改变生物因素甚至可以改变人的欲求。一些生物学家推测，我们的肠道细菌其实驱动了我们对某些不健康食品的渴求。重视生物因素，并不等于淡化行为因素，而是意味着从更多的维度理解它。
These and other studies raise important possibilities, which deserve more research and attention. At the very least, we should invest as many obesity research dollars in uncovering and understanding these biological channels as we do in understanding behavioral channels. And this is a behavioral economist talking!
包括上述论文在内的多项研究提出了一些重要的可能性，值得我们更多地研究和关注。从最低限度来说，我们应该把足够多的肥胖研究经费投入到揭示和理解这些生物学因素中，要跟行为因素研究中的投入一样多。这可是一名行为经济学家的意见！
After all, this could radically change the way we think about policies to curb obesity. As one newspaper editorial pronounced:
毕竟，这或许会从根本上改变我们对肥胖遏制政策的看法。正如一家报纸的社论所说的那样：
“A little town in Sweden has put a local tax on fat men. It is declared that ‘the fat man stands accused by the very fact of his too solid flesh’ (vide “Hamlet”) ‘of gluttony and laziness.’ Millions of fat men throughout the world may rise up and denounce as liars the town councillor who drew up this cruel indictment and those who voted for it, but the gentler way of reproving them would be to point out the tritely recognised danger of generalisation in almost any statement of supposed fact. Not all fat men are lazy and gluttonous. Obesity is in many a congenital habit of body; in others a disease.”
“瑞典的一个小镇已经在向胖人征税了。它宣布‘由于好吃懒做，胖子长就了太厚实的肉体（语出《哈姆雷特》[Hamlet]），因此应当遭到指责’。对于拟出这种尖刻控诉的镇议会议员，以及那些投票支持的人，全球各地数以百万计的胖人可能会站出来谴责他们胡说八道。但是，更温和的谴责方式应该是指出：在陈述假定事实的时候，几乎总是存在以点概面的危险。并非所有的胖子都好吃懒做。对于很多人而言，肥胖是一种先天性的身体习惯；对另外一些人，肥胖是一种疾病。”
That editorial was written in 1923, for the paper known as The Paris Herald. Maybe the writer was on to something.
这篇社论写于1923年，刊登在《巴黎先驱报》（The Paris Herald，《国际纽约时报》的前身——译注）上。也许，那位作者说对了。