HONG KONG — As the usual drivers of economic growth have faltered in China, the stock market euphoria has helped pick up the slack, driven by a slate of businesses feeding off the frenzy.
香港——随着中国经济增长的惯常动力减弱，股市的狂潮在一定程度弥补了一部分动力，而从热潮中获益的公司则推动了这一趋势。
With the market now cooling, the Chinese economy is losing a major boost, adding pressure on the government to take further action.
随着股市的降温，中国经济将失去一个重要的推动力，迫使中国政府进一步采取行动。
“Definitely, it can’t last,” said Julian Evans-Pritchard, a China economist at Capital Economics, referring to the stock market’s lift to the country’s growth. “It’s not sustainable.”
“这种情况肯定维持不下去，”凯投宏观(Capital Economics)研究中国的经济学家朱利安·埃文斯-普里查德(Julian Evans-Pritchard)提到股市对中国经济发展的推动时说。“这是不可持续的。”
The stock market rise was fast and furious. At their peak in mid-June, China’s main share indexes, for the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges, had more than doubled over the course of a year.
中国股市出现急剧上涨。6月中旬达到顶峰时，上海和深圳两个交易所的两大股指，在之前的一年里至少翻了一番。
“What stands out in China’s case is the sheer velocity of the increase in prices,” analysts at Goldman Sachs wrote this week in a research note. To find a comparable performance in the United States, they had to go back to the 12 months ended July 1933, when the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index rose 124 percent after the inauguration of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and the devaluation of the dollar against gold.
“中国股市最突出的一点就是是股价飙升的速度，”高盛(Goldman Sachs)分析师本周在一份研究报告中写道。要想在美国股市中寻找类似的情景，他们得追溯到1933年7月之前的那12个月时间。当时在富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)宣誓就职，美元对黄金贬值后，标准普尔500指数(Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index)上涨了124%。
The Chinese stock market rally has made for big business at the country’s financial firms, a sharp contrast to the slump in manufacturing, real estate and other traditional sources of growth. It also gave banks, brokerages and other financial companies an outsize importance in the economy as a whole.
中国股市的上涨给该国的金融机构带来了很多收益，与制造业、房地产，以及经济增长的其他传统来源形成了鲜明的对比。这还促使银行、券商以及其他金融机构在整体经济中，占据了过于重要的地位。
In the first quarter of the year — the most recent comparison available — the output of the finance industry accounted for 1.3 percentage points of China’s 7 percent growth rate. That compared with a contribution of about 0.7 percentage point to the 7.4 percent growth in all of 2014.
今年一季度——这是可以比较的最近的一段时期——中国经济增长达到7%，其中金融业贡献了1.3个百分点。而在2014年，经济增长为7.4%，金融业贡献了0.7个百分点。
On Wednesday, China reported its economy in the second quarter increased by 7 percent, in line with government targets. Economists said the expansion had been helped by rising output from the financial industry.
中国周三报告称，二季度经济增长达7%，符合政府的目标。经济学家表示，金融业产出的增加推动了经济扩张。
“Even if equity prices recover and the market rebounds, we won’t see the same level of turnover,” Mr. Evans-Pritchard said.
埃文斯-普里查德表示，“即便股价回升，股市反弹，我们也不会看到成交量回到同样的水平。”
Securities firms were quick to cash in on their newfound sway and their own inflated market valuations.
证券公司获得了新的影响力，自身的市值也大幅上涨。它们迫不及待地以此获利。
So far this year, Chinese brokerage houses have raised more than $31 billion selling new shares in themselves on the mainland and in Hong Kong, more than five times as much as any previous annual total, according to the data provider Dealogic. Much of that money has been earmarked for expanding their margin financing businesses, in which they lend money to stock market investors.
数据供应商Dealogic透露，今年到目前为止，中国券商通过在内地和香港发售自身的新股，筹集了逾310亿美元（约合1300亿元人民币）的资金，是之前年度总金额的五倍多。其中大部分资金用于拓展融资融券业务，为股市投资者提供贷款。
Signs of the bonanza also spread to Hong Kong, where cash-laden mainland financial firms continued their expansion. In recent months, companies like Yunfeng Capital, a private equity firm co-founded by Jack Ma, the Alibaba Group’s executive chairman, and Hani Securities, a brokerage firm owned by the conglomerate Fosun International, signed leases for new and bigger offices in prime locations in Hong Kong’s main financial district, according to Henry Chin, the head of Asia research at the CBRE Group, a commercial real estate broker.
股市热潮也蔓延至香港，手握大把现金的内地金融企业在香港继续扩展业务。据商业房地产经纪公司世邦魏理仕集团(CBRE Group)亚洲区研究部主管金纬(Henry Chin)透露，近几个月来，阿里巴巴集团执行总裁马云联合创立的私募股权公司云锋基金(Yunfeng Capital)、复星国际集团(Fosun International)旗下的恒利证券(Hani Securities)等公司，都签署了租赁合约，在香港主要金融区黄金地段租下了更大的新办公室。
But China’s market rally has cooled drastically in recent weeks. After rebounding for several days last week on strong signs of government support, mainland stocks slipped again on Wednesday. Shanghai’s main index closed down 3 percent and Shenzhen’s shed 4.2 percent. From its peak on June 12, the Shanghai index has now fallen 26 percent, and Shenzhen shares are off 34 percent. Across both markets, stocks have lost a combined $3 trillion in market value in the last month.
但中国股市的上涨最近几周急剧降温。在政府发出强有力的支持信号，促使股市在上周的几天时间里出现反弹后，内地股市周三再次下滑。上证指数收跌3%，深证指数下跌4.2%。自6月12日冲顶以来，沪市股指已经下跌26%，深市股值下跌34%。过去一个月里，两市总市值共损失了3万亿美元。
The breadth of the stock market sell-off is such that it poses risks to the country’s growth outlook in the coming months. Fearing the rout, hundreds of companies suspended their shares from trading, creating an overhang that is only slowly being worked through as those stocks resume trading, usually to fall in value. Investors are also deleveraging as they sell shares, though hundreds of billions of dollars in margin financing remain outstanding.
抛盘的范围非常广，给中国未来几个月的增长前景带来风险。由于担心股价大跌，数百家公司停牌，带来的风险只有当恢复交易时才能慢慢消除，而股价往往会下降。在抛售股票的同时，投资者也在降低杠杆率，不过还有数千亿美元的融资融券贷款尚未偿还。
If the stock market volume falls back to its prerally levels, Wang Tao, the chief China economist at UBS, calculates that the slower activity in the finance sector could shave as much as a half a percentage point off China’s G.D.P. in the second half of the year, when compared with the first half.
瑞银(UBS)首席中国经济学家汪涛认为，如果股市成交量回落到上涨之前的水平，金融领域的经济活动放缓将会致使下半年GDP环比下降0.5个百分点。
“Such a loss would need to be offset by other measures, including more fiscal support for further infrastructure spending to beef up investment,” Ms. Wang said.
汪涛表示，“需要通过其他举措弥补这些损失，比如提供更多财政支持，进一步增加基础设施开支，从而促进投资。”
Already, China has been seeking to counter its industrial slowdown through expanded infrastructure investment, including a combined 1.6 trillion renminbi, or $260 billion, to be spent this year on new rail lines and water treatment centers. These spending initiatives come alongside assertive stimulus measures taken by the central bank, which has cut benchmark interest rates four times since November.
中国一直在努力通过增加基础设施投资来应对工业增长的放缓，比如今年将投资1.6万亿元人民币建造新铁路线和水处理中心。政府增加开支的同时，中国央行果断采取刺激举措，自去年11月以来，四次下调基准利率。
These measures appear to be helping the broader economy. While economists have for years expressed concerns about the quality of China’s economic data, separate quarterly figures on retail sales, investment and industrial production released Wednesday were all better than forecast, suggesting a trend of stabilizing economic growth despite the volatile markets.
这些举措似乎推动了整体经济的发展。虽然经济学家多年来一直对中国经济数据的质量表示担心，周三公布的零售业销售额、投资及工业产值等单独的季度数据都好于预期，这说明尽管股市不稳定，但是中国经济增长呈现了稳定趋势。
And the leadership in Beijing has already demonstrated its readiness to prop up the stock market through direct and indirect support. This month, the central bank said it would underwrite a new $120 billion stock market stabilization fund, regulators suspended new share offerings and the police said they would aim at short sellers and market manipulators for criminal investigation. On Wednesday, the government further appeared to signal its determination not to allow the sliding market to weigh on economic growth.
北京的领导层已经表明，他们准备通过直接和间接的支持举措支撑股市。中国央行在本月表示，将提供1200亿美元，建立新的股市稳定基金，监管机构暂停新股上市，警方表示他们会对卖空者和市场操纵者开展刑事调查。周三，政府似乎进一步表明，有决心阻止下滑的股市影响经济增长。