The impulse when the stock market falls hard for a few days in a row is to do something. Anything. Our life savings are often on the line, after all.
当股市连续几日大幅下挫时，人会有一种想做些什么的冲动。不管什么事都行。毕竟，这往往牵涉的是我们的毕生积蓄。
But that’s just the thing: Stocks are most useful for long-term goals. So unless those goals have changed in the last few days, it probably doesn’t make much sense to overhaul an investment strategy based on a blip of market activity.
但情况是这样的：股票对于长期目标来说最有益。因此，除非这种目标在过去几天里起了变化，否则根据股市活动的短暂变化来全盘调整投资策略的做法是不太可取的。
So pour yourself a drink, or sit down with a pint of ice cream, and consider the following six things.
所以，喝杯东西或坐下来吃点冰激凌。然后想想以下六点。
First, you are not the stock market. Chances are, your portfolio is a diverse mix of investments. Many people save in target-date mutual funds that do the work of diversification for them. Vanguard’s 2035 fund was down 4.6 percent last week, better than the 5.77 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index from where it closed a week earlier.
第一，你并不等于大盘。你的投资组合很可能由各种各样的投资构成。很多人购买目标期限共同基金，而这种基金能够为他们进行多样化投资。先锋2035基金上周下跌4.6%，情况好于标准普尔500指数同一时段下挫的5.77%。
Second, if you have been investing in stocks in the last six years, you most likely are a big winner. It’s generally a bad idea to look at your investment statements too often, but take a quick peek.
第二，如果过去六年都在投资股票，你很可能已是大赢家。太过频繁地查看投资记录基本不是一个好主意，快速了解一下即可。
That outsize gain you see is one reason you are in stocks in the first place. Plenty of research shows that if you miss just a few days of the market’s biggest gains, your long-term portfolio will suffer badly. If you decide to put a bunch of your money in cash this week, how will you know when to get back in the market? You’ll probably be looking for a sign, and that sign will be the very rebound days that you will have missed out on.
你看到的巨大收益是你投资股票的首要原因。大量研究显示，如果你错过了股市涨幅最大的那几天，你的长期投资组合会遭受重创。如果决定本周将一部分投资变现，你怎么知道何时回归股市？你很可能会去寻找一个信号，而这种信号往往就是你将会错失的反弹。
Still uneasy? Consider a third point: At some time in the past, when you were not scared, you made a decision to construct your portfolio a certain way. You knew that stocks involved risk and that the returns they have traditionally delivered, above and beyond what cash and bonds do, was the reward for your persistence.
仍然感到不安？看看第三点：在过去的某个时间点，你并不恐慌的时候，你决定以某种方式构建自己的投资组合。当时你知道股市有风险，但它通常会带来高于现金及证券带来的收益，而这些收益就是对你的恒心的奖赏。
Nothing about the events of recent days suggests that the fundamentals of capitalism have changed. So neither should your confidence in very long-term ownership of the pieces of the for-profit enterprises that benefit from your fortitude.
近日发生的事情并没有说明资本主义的基础有所动摇。因此你也不应该改变对长期持有营利性企业的股票的信心，这些企业受益于你的坚持不懈。
Nobody knows for sure whether we’re in for a decline in the stock market of 25 percent or more. But if such a decline does happen and you are a regular investor, you’ll be buying more when prices are lower.
没人确切知道我们是否正在遭遇股市下跌至少25%的情况。但如果股市大跌，作为一名普通投资者，你会在股价较低的时候买进更多。
Which brings us to point No. 4: Long-term investors have time to recover. I know too many 70-year-olds who sold all of their stocks in 2009 and are healthy enough to live to 100. They’d be going on a lot more vacations now and be worrying less about long-term care if they had held firm.
于是来到了第四点：长期投资者有时间恢复。我认识多得数不过来的70岁老人，他们在2009年清空了所有股票，目前身体非常健康，足以活到100岁。如果他们当初坚持下来，现在就会有多得多的度假机会，也不用那么担心长期护理的问题。
Worried about a 529 college savings plan for a 12-year-old? Hopefully, you weren’t 100 percent in stocks with six years to go before needing money for tuition. Still, you have at least nine years for a portion of that portfolio to recover from any sustained downturn. If that 12-year-old is the oldest of at least two children, you could use cash to pay some tuition bills for the eldest and let some of the account ride even longer for the next child.
你在操心12岁子女的529大学储蓄计划吗？在距离需要钱来支付学费还有六年的时候，希望你并没有百分之百投入股市。不过，你至少还有九年的时间可以让部分投资从持续低迷的状态中恢复过来。如果有至少两个孩子，而最大的孩子是12岁，那么你可以用现金来支付老大的部分学费，从而让账户里的一些资金在股市留存更长时间，直到为下一个孩子支付学费。
Let’s say you still have trouble sleeping. Then you may be the sort of person who needs to consider a fifth point: Some people cannot handle the stress of investing in stocks. But try to give this more time, and consider the alternatives. There are few investments that can deliver the kinds of returns that stocks can without their own accompanying anxiety.
假使你仍然难以入睡。那你或许是那种需要考虑第五点的人：有些人就是无法应对投资股票带来的压力。但试着给它更多时间，同时考虑其他替代选择。几乎没有哪种投资方式会在不引发焦虑的情况下带来比股票更高的收益。
Another alternative is to save a lot more in safer investments like cash or certain bonds. Most people don’t have enough income to do that easily, so settling for lower returns will mean a combination of working longer and living modestly, forever. For some people, that is a fine trade-off.
另一个选择就是以现金或购买某些债券等安全得多的投资方式来储蓄更多资金。大多数人没有足够多的收入，无法轻易做到这一点，因此接受低收益意味着要工作更长时间，永远朴素地生活。对于一些人来说，这是一种可以接受的妥协。
One final point for new investors (and their parents and grandparents, who ought to be counseling them right about now): This is what markets do. There is absolutely nothing abnormal about what is going on here.
对于新投资者（及现在应该会给他们出谋划策的父母和祖父母）而言，最后一点是：这就是市场的常态。现在发生的事情绝对没什么异常。
Most of us have to save somewhere, and history suggests that stocks are the most accessible route to get the returns you’ll need to retire someday. It would take decades of systemic economic erosion to prove otherwise, and a few days of market declines do not suggest that anything like that is upon us.
我们当中的大多数人需要将钱储存到某个地方，历史表明，如果想获得能满足将来退休所需要的收益，股票是最容易的方式。要让这一点不成立的话，需要数十年的系统性经济下行来证明，而短短几天的股市下跌并没有显示出，这样的事情就在我们眼前。