HONG KONG – Five companies halted plans to sell shares on Monday after China’s securities regulator moved to tighten restrictions on new listings, the latest sign of challenges as the mainland seeks to reopen its stock markets to new offerings after a yearlong ban.
香港——中国证券监督机构采取措施加紧对新股发行的限制之后，有五家公司于周一中止了新股发行计划，这是新股发行禁令实施一年后，中国大陆在力图重启市场时面临挑战的最新信号。
The China Securities Regulatory Commission announced on Sunday that it would start investigations of companies that are marketing their initial public offerings to investors, monitoring comments made by executives during such meetings to ensure they did not break the law by disclosing information not included in their public stock exchange filings.
中国证券监督管理委员会于上周日宣布，该机构将对向投资者推销首次公开发行(IPO)新股的公司展开调查，同时监督公司高管在此类会议上的言论，以确保他们不会有披露证券交易所公开备案文件未包含信息的违法行为。
The commission also said it would monitor companies that sought to sell shares at higher valuations than the average for their industry and require them to make additional risk disclosures. Companies failing to comply would be barred from selling shares to the public, the regulator said.
证监会还说，将对试图以高出行业平均市盈率的价格发行新股的公司进行监督，并要求他们发布额外的风险公告。证监会表示，不遵守规定的公司将被禁止发行新股。
Five companies that had been among the first since late 2012 to receive approval to sell shares in mainland China said on Monday that they would suspend their I.P.O. plans on the ChiNext market in Shenzhen, a secondary board mostly for start-up companies, and on another secondary board for small and midsize enterprises.
前述五家公司都是2012年末以来首批获准在中国大陆发行新股的公司，这些公司在周一表示，将暂停公司在深圳创业板及中小板上市的计划。创业板是二板市场，主要服务于初创企业，中小板是另一个二板市场。
The companies are the Beijing Forever Technology Company, the Ciming Health Checkup Management Group Company, the Hebei Huijin Electromechanical Company, Netposa Technologies and the Nsfocus Information Technology Company.
这五家公司是北京东方网力科技有限公司、河北汇金机电股份有限公司、绿盟科技、北京恒华伟业科技股份有限公司，以及慈铭健康体检管理集团股份有限公司。
All five said in announcements to the stock exchange that they were pulling their listings in response to the regulator’s move. The withdrawals follow the announcement on Friday by Jiangsu Aosaikang Pharmaceutical Company that it was aborting its I.P.O.
前述五家公司在向证券交易所发布的声明中一致表示，他们暂停上市是为了应对证监会的举措。这五家公司宣布取消上市之前，江苏奥赛康药业股份有限公司已于上周五宣布取消IPO计划。
The development is a setback for China’s plans, set forth after a meeting in November of the Communist Party leadership under President Xi Jinping, to give the market a bigger role in the process of stock listings.
前述事态发展令中国的经济计划受到挫折，以习近平为首的中共领导层在去年11月召开了会议，相关计划于会后出台，要让市场在新股上市的过程中扮演分量更大的角色。
The Shanghai composite index was the worst-performing in Asia last year, despite the country’s status as the world’s fastest-growing major economy.
尽管中国是全球增长最快的主要经济体，上证综合指数却是去年亚洲表现最差的股指。
Investors fear that the markets will be flooded by new listings from the backlog of more than 700 companies that are waiting to sell shares in Shanghai and Shenzhen, the result of a moratorium on I.P.O.’s that had been in place from October 2012 until Jan. 1 this year. In deciding to unfreeze the I.P.O. market, the securities regulator had announced a number of policies intended to strengthen investor protection, increase corporate disclosure requirements and generally to give the market a freer hand in the listing process.
受2012年10月至2014年1月1日的IPO暂停政策的影响，已有逾700家公司等待在上海和深圳出售股票，投资者由此担心市场会被积压的上市计划淹没。决定取消对IPO市场限制的时候，证券监管机构公布了一系列政策，旨在加强投资者保护、增加公司信息披露的要求，总体上在上市进程中给予市场更多自由。
In addition to announcing the resumption of I.P.O.’s, the authorities unveiled several changes meant to partly shift market oversight from an approval-based regime, where the regulator vets deals individually, to a disclosure-based system similar to that in the United States, with the burden of full compliance on the companies.
除了宣布重启IPO，监管机构还公布了几项改革举措，计划将市场监管从以审批为本的制度——即由监管机构审查各项交易——转向与美国类似的以信息披露为本的体系，让公司自行承担完全合规的责任。
At the same time, Chinese regulators are attempting to tweak rules to make the process of valuing share sales more transparent.
与此同时，中国的监管机构正尝试调整规则，使股票销售的估价过程更加透明。
China’s I.P.O. market has been plagued by numerous cases of companies whose shares surge on their first day of trading – the only day when gains or losses are not capped at 10 percent – only to plunge below the initially offered price in subsequent days. This has left many ordinary Chinese investors with burned fingers, and partly explains why trading volumes on the benchmark share index declined for three years in a row, from 2009 to 2011.
中国的IPO市场一直受到大量案例的困扰，案例中的公司的股价在交易首日——唯一一个涨跌幅可以超过10%的日子——飙升，随后几天就跌至发行价以下。这使中国的很多普通投资者受损，也在一定程度上解释了为什么基准股票指数交易量从2009年至2011年连续三年减少。
But in seeking to curb outlandish price swings in share debuts, the securities regulator may cause the management and major shareholders of I.P.O. candidates, if they are unable to get the valuation they want, to reconsider whether pursuing a domestic share sale makes sense.
然而，设法控制股票上市后的异常股价浮动之时，证券监管机构可能会促使IPO候选者的管理层及其主要股东重新考虑寻求在国内售股是否值得，如果他们无法获得自己想要的估价的话。