Video of a live whale shark being sawed on a fishing quay in southern China, its mouth agape and moving and blood gushing out as workers sliced it to pieces, has startled and repelled viewers.
一条鲸鲨在中国南方一座渔业码头被活宰的视频令观众感到震惊和反胃。工人把鲸鲨切割分段的时候，它的嘴一张一合，身体不住地扭动，大量血水从体内涌出。
CCTV, the Chinese state broadcaster, reported on Tuesday that a local fisheries department in Yangjiang, in Guangdong Province, was investigating the case.
中国中央电视台本周二报道，广东阳江渔政部门正在调查此案。 “The whale shark is a second-grade protected animal in China,” the report said. “Killing protected animals in China is a crime.”
“鲸鲨是国家二级保护动物，”报道说。“宰杀国家重点保护动物属于犯罪行为。”
The whale shark, the world’s largest fish, can grow to about 10 meters, or more than 30 feet, long, and it can weigh as much as 9 metric tons, or 20,000 pounds. It is also protected internationally, classified as an Appendix II animal by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna, meaning that trade in the fish is controlled “in order to avoid utilization incompatible with their survival.”
鲸鲨是世界上最大的鱼类，身长可达10米左右，体重可达9吨。它在国际上也是保护动物，被《濒危野生动植物国际贸易公约》(Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora)列在附录II(Appendix II)中，这意味着鲸鲨贸易受到控制，“以避免因过度利用而影响其生存”。
Revulsion at the sawing, video of which began circulating Thursday, has prompted many online comments, China Daily reported.
这段视频从上周四开始流传，据《中国日报》报道，对视频中行为的厌憎，在网上引发了大量的评论。
“Many online friends are passing this clip around and calling it cruel, saying, ‘The live sawing of the whale shark is very inhumane,’ ” the newspaper quoted one commenter as saying. “The video is heartbreaking and difficult to watch,” read another comment it cited.
“不少网友在转发此视频时直呼残忍，称‘活宰鲸鲨惨无人道’，看视频后‘心疼难受’，”该报援引评论者的话说。
“Imagine, after it was caught they didn’t knock it out, but cut up, bit by bit they cut it up — that’s so cruel,” a commenter called Duo Mu wrote on hainan.net.
“想象一下，被抓住以后不打麻醉，一刀一刀把脚，腿，身子一节一节砍下，有多残忍，”一个叫柁木的网友在“海南在线”网站上评论道。
Chinese fishermen and fish factory workers are believed to kill and process many hundreds, probably thousands, of whale sharks each year, according to animal welfare advocates. The species feeds on plankton and is thought to pose little threat to humans.
动物福利维护者表示，中国渔民与鱼厂工人每年宰杀和加工数以百计，甚至数以千计的鲸鲨。鲸鲨以浮游生物为食，对人类没有多大威胁。
In a report published last year titled “Planet’s biggest slaughter of whale sharks exposed in Pu Qi, Zhejiang Province, China,” Alex Hofford and Paul Hilton of WildLifeRisk, a conservation organization, wrote that a single whale shark could sell for around $31,000.
在去年发布的报道“中国浙江省蒲岐镇破获全球最大的鲸鲨屠宰场”(Planet’s biggest slaughter of whale sharks exposed in Pu Qi, Zhejiang Province, China)中，动物保护组织“野生动物危机”(WildLifeRisk)的亚历克斯·霍福德(Alex Hofford)和保罗·希尔顿(Paul Hilton)写道，一条鲸鲨可以卖到3.1万美元（约合18万元人民币）。
The trade, which they said was illegal, was producing “a lot of carnage” and “a lot of damage,” Mr. Hilton said in an interview last year. Shark parts were being sold internationally for meat as well as for oil for the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries, Mr. Hofford and Mr. Hilton said.
他们说这种交易是非法的。去年在接受采访时，希尔顿表示，这种交易造成了“大屠杀”和“巨大伤害”。鲨鱼的身体部分作为肉类被卖到全球，鲨鱼油则用来供应国际化妆品和制药公司，霍福德和希尔顿说。