Choate Rosemary Hall, an elite boarding school in Wallingford, Conn., acknowledged decades of sexual abuse by former teachers against the students entrusted to their care in a report on Thursday.
周四，康涅狄格州沃灵福德市精英寄宿学校乔特罗斯玛丽中学(Choate Rosemary Hall)在一份报告中承认，该校前教师于数十年间对其受托照顾的学生进行了性侵。
The report, written for the board of trustees by an investigator at the law firm Covington & Burling LLP, documented the actions of at least 12 former faculty members, beginning in the 1960s and into the 2010s. The claims of abuse include instances of “intimate kissing,” “sexual intercourse” and “forced or coerced intercourse.”
由科文顿-柏灵律师事务所(Covington & Burling)的一名调查人员为校董会撰写的这份报告，记录了至少12名前教职人员从1960年代到2010年代之间的行为。性侵指控涉及“亲密接吻”、“性交”以及“强迫或胁迫性交”。
The report said that no current faculty members were implicated in abuse and that there were no reports relating to current students. In some cases, administrators had written letters of recommendation for teachers who resigned after being confronted with evidence of misconduct.
报告称，当前的教职人员没有卷入性侵案，也没有关于在校学生遭到性侵的举报。某些情况下，一些教师虽然在其行为失当的证据被摆到眼前后辞了职，却从学校管理人员那里拿到了推荐信。
“Our interviews and school records showed that sometimes the school moved quickly and decisively,” the report said. “In other cases, it was slower to respond and allowed the faculty member to remain at the school, sometimes with restrictions on his or her activity, for a considerable length of time.”
“我们的询问和校方的记录显示，有些时候，校方会迅速果决地采取行动，”报告称。“另外一些时候，它反应迟缓，会让教职人员继续留在学校里，不过有时会在相当长的时间里限制相关人员的行动。”
Choate is a rarefied boarding school in Connecticut whose blue-blooded alumni include President John F. Kennedy and his brother Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. It joins a string of prestigious private schools that have faced accusations of sexual abuse by faculty members. St. George’s School, in Rhode Island, announced in 2015 that it was investigating “multiple credible reports” of sexual abuse against its students in the 1970s and ’80s. Horace Mann and Poly Prep, private schools in New York City, have also been confronted with abuse claims.
乔特是康涅狄格州极为精英化的一所寄宿学校，有不少出身名门的校友，其中包括约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)总统及其兄长小约瑟夫·P·肯尼迪(Joseph P. Kennedy Jr)。此前已有一连串名望颇高的私立学校像它一样面临着教职人员实施性侵的指控。罗德岛的圣乔治学校(St. George’s School)于2015年宣布，正就关于本校学生在70年代和80年代遭到性侵的“多份可靠举报”展开调查。纽约市的两所私立学校——霍瑞斯曼(Horace Mann)和聚日预备学校(Poly Prep)——也面临着性侵指控。
Paul Mones, a lawyer who represents victims of sexual abuse, said private schools can be particularly prone to such attacks.
性侵受害者的代理律师保罗·莫内斯(Paul Mones)说，私立学校里尤为易于发生这类攻击。
“They are closed systems, especially residential private schools where kids are separated from their parents,” Mr. Mones said. “It’s not like a public school with people coming in and out all the time. There are many more opportunities for teachers to do this.”
“它们是封闭的系统，尤其是那种让孩子和家长相分离的寄宿制私立学校，”莫内斯说。“不像在公立学校里，一直都有人进进出出。教师做这种事的机会要多得多。”
The report on Choate said the school kept accusations of sexual misconduct from being publicized for years. “Sexual misconduct matters were handled internally and quietly,” it said. “Even when a teacher was terminated or resigned in the middle of the school year because he or she had engaged in sexual misconduct with a student, the rest of the faculty was told little and sometimes nothing about the teacher’s departure and, when told, was cautioned to say nothing about the situation if asked.”
关于乔特的报告指出，该校曾在多年间严防性侵指控被公之于众。“性失德事宜在校内被悄悄处理，”报告称。“即便一名教师在学年中间被停了职或辞去了职务，原因是他或她面对学生时有性失德之举，其余教职人员也只会被告知与这名教师离开有关的少量消息，甚至一点风声都得不到，而且被告知的时候，他们会受到警告：如果被问及相关情况，什么也别说。”
Cheyenne Montgomery, who graduated from Choate in 1992, was abused by two teachers named in the report. In a telephone interview, Ms. Montgomery described herself as an unusual Choate student because she had very little money.
1992年从乔特毕业的夏延·蒙哥马利(Cheyenne Montgomery)曾遭到报告中提及的两名教师的侵犯。在接受电话采访时，蒙哥马利称自己不是乔特中学常见的学生，因为她没什么钱。
A math teacher encouraged students to come to him for extra help, and during her sophomore year, he suggested she visit him to study, she recounted.
据蒙哥马利讲述，一名数学老师鼓励学生找他寻求额外的帮助，在她高二时，这名老师建议她去找他学习。
“Conversations with him started getting more personal,” she said. “He started kind of sharing information about himself and digging into information about me, mostly about my father, and kind of through that, it developed into what felt to me like a boyfriend-girlfriend situation. And it became physical.”
“跟他的谈话开始变得更加私人，”她说。“他开始分享自己的个人信息，也深入探究我的信息，其中大多是关于我父亲，好像就是通过这种方式，发展成让我感觉像是男女朋友的关系。然后变成身体接触。”
He resigned at the end of the school year.
这名教师在那个学年结束的时候辞去了教职。
During her senior year, she was abused again, this time by a French teacher. Shortly after Ms. Montgomery graduated, Choate learned of the relationship. The report said this prompted the teacher’s “departure from the school at the end of that academic year. He then returned to the Kent School, where he had taught before joining the Choate faculty, and from which he retired in 2013.”
高三的时候，她又一次遭到侵犯，这次是一名法语老师。蒙哥马利毕业没多久，乔特中学知晓了这段关系。报告称，这导致该名教师“在学年末离开了学校。之后，他回到自己在加入乔特中学前曾经任教的肯特中学(Kent School)，于2013年从这所学校退休。”
Ms. Montgomery recounted her experience to The Boston Globe in 2016.
蒙哥马利在2016年向《波士顿环球报》(Boston Globe)讲述了自己的经历。
In a letter to members of the school community, Michael J. Carr, the chairman of the board of trustees, and Alex D. Curtis, the headmaster, said: “On behalf of Choate Rosemary Hall, we profoundly apologize. We honor and thank the survivors of sexual misconduct who came forward. We extend our deepest apologies most specifically to all survivors of sexual misconduct and their loved ones.”
在一封致学校社区成员的信中，校董会主席迈克尔·J·卡尔(Michael J. Carr)和校长亚历克斯·D·柯蒂斯(Alex D. Curtis)表示：“我们代表乔特罗斯玛丽中学深表歉意。对经受了不端性行为迫害并勇敢站出来的受害者表示尊敬与感谢。尤其向不端性行为的所有受害者及其挚爱亲友致以最深的歉意。”
Ms. Montgomery described the report as an important step, but said there was much more work to be done.
蒙哥马利称发布这份报告是重要的一步，但需要做的工作远不止这些。
“These things were really embedded in the culture, and not just at Choate,” she said. “A lot of progress has been made, but we can’t feel like we’ve just tied this up into a tidy little gift and said, ‘It’s in the past.’ We’re talking about the past because we have to deal with this in the present.”
“这类事情不是仅仅存在于乔特，它深深植根于我们的文化之中，”她说。“我们取得了不小的进步，但不能就此觉得事情有了了结，将它束之高阁，然后说‘都过去了’。我们之所以谈论过去，是因为现在必须解决它。”