NAIROBI, Kenya — Gunmen attacked a university in eastern Kenya early Thursday and killed at least 147 people, according to news media reports, as they fought with armed officers and forced their way into student dormitories, the police said.
肯尼亚内罗毕——据当地媒体报道，枪手周四早上袭击了肯尼亚东部一所大学，致至少147人死亡。警方称，枪手与警察发生枪战，并攻入了学生宿舍。
More than six hours after the attack began, security forces were still battling to retake control of Garissa University College and students remained trapped in college buildings, witnesses and officials said.
据目击者和官方报告，事发六个多小时后，安全部队仍然与歹徒激战，努力夺回贾瑞沙大学(Garissa University College)，但仍有学生困在学校大楼内。
A statement by the United States Embassy in Nairobi said that “according to the reports, there have been explosions and heavy gunfire at the school; hostages have been taken and Al Shabab has claimed responsibility for the attack.”
美国驻内罗毕使馆一份声明说：“根据报道，当地发生了爆炸，有密集枪声；有人质被劫持。青年党已声称袭击是他们所为。”2013年，这个伊斯兰派极端组织袭击内罗毕一家商场，造成67人死亡。
The National Disaster Operation Center of Kenya said 65 people had been admitted to a hospital as a result of the attack at Garissa University College, most with gunshot wounds. Four critically wounded people were airlifted to Nairobi, the capital, for treatment, the center said on Twitter.
肯尼亚国家灾难行动中心说，贾瑞沙大学的袭击已致使65人被送往一家医院治疗，其中多数人受了枪伤。该中心在Twitter上说，另有四名重伤者已被飞机送往首都内罗毕抢救。
The attack began around 5:30 a.m., with gunmen shooting at guards at a main gate at Garissa University College in eastern Kenya, about 100 miles from the border with Somalia, according to a written statement from the Kenyan National Police Service. Police officers guarding the campus “responded swiftly and engaged the gunmen in a fierce shootout, however the attackers retreated and gained entry into the hostels,” the statement said.
肯尼亚警方书面声明说，袭击发生在早上5点30分左右。枪手在肯尼亚东部贾瑞沙大学门口开枪袭击安保人员。事发地距索马里边境约100英里。声明说，校园警察“迅速还击，发生了激烈枪战，但袭击者后撤，闯入了学生宿舍。”
Security services were trying to force the gunmen out of the dormitories, the police said Thursday morning. Around 11 a.m., three of four student hostels had been evacuated, and “the attackers have been cornered in one hostel,” the Interior Ministry said on Twitter.
周四早上警方说，安保部队力图逼迫枪手离开宿舍。11点左右四座宿舍中的三座已被疏散，“袭击者已被困在一座宿舍中，”内政部在Twitter上说。