BEIJING — There are many things about modern China that defy easy explanation: parents posing their children next to live tigers, the sight of grown women wearing furry cat-ear headbands while shopping, the performance-art-like spectacle of strangers napping together in Ikea display beds.
北京——现代中国有很多事情都难于解释：父母让孩子在活生生的老虎旁边拍照，成年女性戴着毛茸茸的猫耳头饰外出购物，陌生人像表演行为艺术似的，一起在宜家(Ikea)的展示床上睡觉。
But no mystery is more confounding than that of China’s most enduring case of cultural diffusion: its love affair with “Going Home,” the 1989 smash-hit instrumental by the American saxophone superstar Kenny G.
但是，没有什么东西比中国最具生命力的文化扩散实例——它对1989年大热的器乐曲《回家》(Going Home)的热爱——更让人费解了。这首曲子的演奏者是美国萨克斯管巨星肯尼·基(Kenny G)。
For years the tune, in all its seductive woodwind glory, has been a staple of Chinese society. Every day, “Going Home” is piped into shopping malls, schools, train stations and fitness centers as a signal to the public that it is time, indeed, to go home.
多年来，这首用木管乐器演奏的迷人曲子，俨然成为了中国社会的一个主要构成元素。每一天，商场、学校、火车站、健身中心都会播放《回家》，向大家发出“现在是回家的时候了”的信号。
One recent Saturday afternoon, as the smooth notes of “Going Home” cooed repeatedly over the ordered chaos of Beijing’s famous Panjiayuan Antiques Market, hawkers packed up their Mao-era propaganda ashtrays, 1930s telephones and “antique” jade amulets while the last bargain hunters headed for the gates.
最近一个周六的下午——北京著名的潘家园古玩市场反复播放《回家》的悠扬旋律，市场里呈现出有序的杂乱景象，当最后一批捡漏的人走向大门时，小贩收拾起毛泽东时代的宣传图案烟灰缸，1930年代的电话机，还有“古董”玉符。
To ensure no stragglers miss their cue, the melody plays on a loop — for the final hour and a half.
为了确保留到最后的人不会错过这个提示，市场管理者在关门前一个半小时里循环播放《回家》的旋律。
According to a manager, Panjiayuan has used the tune since 2000. She did not know why.
一名经理说，潘家园自2000年以来开始使用这首曲子。她并不知道其中的原因。
“Isn’t it just played everywhere?” she asked.
“所有地方都放这首曲子，不是吗？”她问道。
At 9:30 p.m. on Monday, the Powerhouse Gym in central Beijing was a half-hour from closing. As usual, “Going Home” began looping over the loudspeakers, sending the weight lifters and treadmill runners fleeing for the locker rooms. The manager, Zhu Mingde, followed, eager to turn off the lights and lock the doors. Mr. Zhu could not pinpoint when “Going Home” had become China’s adieu anthem, nor could he identify the famous musician behind it. But despite its lack of lyrics, he understood the melody’s cultural significance. “All I know is when they play this song, it’s quitting time,” he said.
周一晚上9:30，位于北京市中心的宝力豪健身馆离关门还有半小时。像往常一样，喇叭开始循环播放《回家》，引得使用举重器械和跑步机的健身者纷纷前往更衣室。经理朱明德（音译）跟在后面，赶紧关灯锁门。他说不准《回家》从何时起成为了中国的告别曲，也不知道演奏它的著名音乐家是谁。但是尽管《回家》没有歌词，他却理解其旋律的文化意义。“我只是知道，当他们播放这首曲子时，就到了离开的时候。”他说。
For a generation of Chinese youth, “Going Home” has featured prominently on the soundtrack of their lives.
对于一代中国青年来说，《回家》在他们生活的背景音乐中占有突出位置。
Mao Xiaojie, a junior at the Communication University of China in Beijing, said, “They’d play it over and over again at wedding banquets.”
毛晓洁（音译）在北京的中国传媒大学读三年级，她说，“人们会在婚宴上一遍又一遍地播放《回家》。”
Her classmate Zhang Dawei had more academic associations. “This is what they put on when they’re kicking us out of the school library,” he said.
她的同学张大伟（音译）则把它跟校园生活更多地联系起来。“学校图书馆想把我们踢走的时候就播放它，”他说。
Emma Zhang first encountered “Going Home” in a cafe many years ago, and then at home, at school, in bookstores, shopping malls and health spas, and on the street. “I used to think the tune was really nice and catchy,” she said. “But now I’m sick of it.”
艾玛·张(Emma Zhang)第一次听到《回家》是多年前在一家咖啡馆里，后来她在家中、学校、书店、商场、健康水疗中心和大街上都听到了它。“我曾经觉得它的旋律非常动听，让人难忘，”她说。“但现在我烦死它了。”
Decades of easy listening to this one recording, with its undertones of social engineering, have led to certain habits. “Whenever I hear ‘Going Home,’ I finish things faster,” said Cheng Gang, 35, who works in finance.
在听了这首轻音乐曲子几十年之后，加上这里面包含的社会工程学意味，导致了某些习惯的养成。“每当我听到《回家》，我就会以更快的速度完成手上的事情，”35岁的财务工作者成刚（音译）说。
On the popular Chinese video-sharing website Youku, “Going Home” accounts for four of the 10 most-played videos in the saxophone category, with 313,786 plays over the last three years.
在中国颇受欢迎的视频分享网站优酷上，《回家》在10个播放次数最多的萨克斯管类视频中占了四席，过去三年总共播放了313786次。
“Nobody knows why the Chinese even like Kenny G so much,” said Jackie Subeck, a music and entertainment consultant from Los Angeles who has been doing business in China for 12 years. She first heard “Going Home” in China in 2002, when it was blasting on her hotel television. At the time, Ms. Subeck was trying to help establish a music royalty collection process in China, so the popularity of “Going Home” was more bitter than sweet. “That song’s on nonstop play and doesn’t collect a penny,” she said.
“没人知道中国人为何这么喜欢肯尼·基，”来自洛杉矶的音乐和娱乐业顾问杰姬·苏贝克(Jackie Subeck)说。已在中国做了12年生意的她说，第一次在中国听到《回家》，是2002年从酒店电视机上听到的。当时，苏贝克正试图协助在中国建立音乐版税征收程序，因此《回家》大受欢迎与其说让她觉得欣慰，不如说让她觉得心痛。“这首曲子被不间断播放，但却不收一分钱，”她说。
To add insult to injury, Ms. Subeck was once delayed for hours at the old Beijing airport, where the food court was playing a loop of Kenny G music videos. “We just sat there drinking beer and watching incessant Kenny G,” she recalled. “It was terrible.”
雪上加霜的是，苏贝克有次曾在北京的老机场被耽搁了好几个小时，那里的餐饮区当时一直在播放肯尼·基的一系列音乐视频。“我们只能坐在那里喝啤酒，没完没了地看肯尼·基，”她回忆说，“太糟糕了。”
Not that Kenny G is overwrought about the unpaid royalties. Since the 1980s, he has sold more than 75 million albums worldwide. (Little-known fact: In 1997, he earned a place in Guinness World Records for playing the longest note ever recorded on a saxophone: 45 minutes and 47 seconds, in E flat.)
并不是说肯尼·基对未付的版税过于着急。自上世纪80年代以来，他已在全球卖出了超过七千五百万张唱片。（鲜有人知的事实是，1997年，他用萨克斯管演奏了45分47秒的降E大调，因而被列入《吉尼斯世界纪录》[Guinness World Records]，成为用萨克斯演奏一个音符时间最长的人。）
“Do I wish I could get paid for everything? Of course,” he said in a telephone interview. “But I surrender to the fact that that’s the way things go there."Touring China in the 1990s, he heard “Going Home” playing in Tiananmen Square, in Shanghai, on a golf course and “in a restroom in the middle of nowhere,” he said. “It made me feel great to know there was no language barrier to connecting with music.”
“我希望所有音乐都能得到回报吗？当然了，”他在接受电话采访时说。“但我接受了事实，在那里，情况就是那样的。”他说，上世纪90年代在中国巡演时，他听到天安门广场、上海、高尔夫球场以及“一个偏僻地方的洗手间”都在播放《回家》。“知道欣赏音乐时不存在语言障碍这一点让我觉得很开心。”
He has since performed in China many times, including on a five-city tour last fall. But he could provide no further insight into his music’s popularity there.
自那以后，他多次在中国登台表演，其中包括去年秋天的五城巡演。但他无法给出有关自己的音乐在那里大受欢迎的进一步见解。
“I don’t ask questions because I like to leave some of the mystery,” he said.
“我不问问题，因为我喜欢留下一些神秘，”他说。
Still, Kenny G is aware of the tune’s shepherding function and plans accordingly when he performs in China.
但肯尼·基知道那首曲子起着提醒人们回家的作用。在中国表演时，他会有相应的计划。
“I save it for last,” he said, “because I don’t want everyone going home early.”
“我会把它留在最后，”他说，“因为我不想让人们太早回家。”