MOREHEAD, Ky. — A raucous scene unfolded shortly after 8 a.m. at the Rowan County Courthouse here as two same-sex couples walked into the county clerk’s office, followed by a throng of journalists and chanting protesters on both sides of the issue. One couple, David Ermold and David Moore, tried to engage the county clerk, Kim Davis, in a debate before the cameras, but as she had before, she turned them away, saying repeatedly that she would not issue licenses to any couples, gay or straight.
肯塔基州莫尔黑德——早上8点刚过，已是一片喧嚣场景。两对同性伴侣走进罗恩县政府大楼的书记官办公室，身后跟随着一大群记者，还有在这一议题上持不同立场的抗议者在喊着口号。其中一对情侣是戴维·埃尔莫德(David Ermold)和戴维·摩尔(David Moore)。他们试图与县书记官基姆·戴维斯(Kim Davis)在镜头面前展开辩论，不过她一如既往地拒绝了二人，反复强调自己不会给任何伴侣颁发结婚证，无论是同性伴侣还是异性伴侣。
“Under whose authority?” Mr. Ermold asked.
“凭什么？”埃尔莫德诘问。
“Under God’s authority,” Ms. Davis replied.
“凭上帝的权威，”戴维斯回答。
Ms. Davis says same-sex marriage violates her Christian beliefs. She took office in January, succeeding her mother, who had been the county clerk for 37 years.
戴维斯表示，同性婚姻违背了她的基督教信仰。她于今年1月上任，接替了担任县书记官长达37年之久的母亲的职位。
Her case stands as the most conspicuous official resistance remaining to the Supreme Court’s landmark ruling in June legalizing same-sex marriage and is part of a number of legal challenges centering on the obligations of public officials and private businesses who say same-sex marriage conflicts with their religious faith.
今年6月，联邦最高法院通过了里程碑式的判决，使得同性婚姻合法化。戴维斯是官员仍在抵制这一裁决的最显眼的例子，也是多项同类法律申诉的一个缩影。这些案件关注的是，宣称同性婚姻违反自身宗教信仰的公职人员和私营业主的法律责任。
Some other local officials still refuse to issue marriage licenses, including probate judges in 11 Alabama counties. But most such challenges have faded, as officials who previously refused licenses to same-sex couples have reversed course.
另有一些地方官员依然拒绝颁发结婚证，包括阿拉巴马州11个县的遗嘱认证法官。然而，随着之前拒绝给同性伴侣颁证的官员开始改变做法，此类抵制行为大多停止了。
Ms. Davis has been cheered by religious conservatives from around the country, though legal experts say she has almost no chance of prevailing. On Tuesday, lawyers for same-sex couples asked Judge David L. Bunning of Federal District Court to hold her in contempt and fine her, and a hearing on that motion was set for Thursday in District Court in Ashland. The lawyers did not ask for jail time, which the judge could also impose.
戴维斯受到了全美宗教保守派的追捧，不过法学专家表示，她几乎没有胜算。周二的时候，代表同性伴侣的律师提请联邦地区法院法官戴维·L·邦宁(David L. Bunning)判其藐视法庭并处以罚金，而这一动议的听证定于周四在位于阿什兰的联邦地区法院举行。控方律师并未提请刑期，不过法官有权这么做。
Ms. Davis said in a statement released by her lawyers that she had received death threats, but that she would neither resign nor relent.
戴维斯通过律师发表声明称，她收到了不少死亡威胁，但她并不准备辞职或退让。
“To issue a marriage license which conflicts with God’s definition of marriage, with my name affixed to the certificate, would violate my conscience,” she said. She added: “I have no animosity toward anyone and harbor no ill will. To me this has never been a gay or lesbian issue. It is about marriage and God’s word.”
“颁发违背上帝对婚姻的定义的结婚证，并把我的名字写在这张证书上，这样的做法违背我的良知，”她说。“我对任何人都没有敌意或恶意。对我而言，这从来都不是一个同性恋议题，而是事关婚姻和上帝的教诲。”
Her defiance presented the state and courts with a conundrum, since she is an elected official and not easily removed. The State Legislature, where each party controls one chamber, could impeach her, but that is considered unlikely in this conservative state.
她的抗拒给该州和法庭出了一道难题，因为她是民选官员，不能轻易将其免职。两党各控制一院的州议会可以弹劾她，但人们认为，在这个偏保守的州，这种情况不太可能发生。
Officials have said it might be possible to charge her with official misconduct, a misdemeanor; a conviction could result in a court order removing her. The county attorney has declined to take up the question, referring it to the state’s attorney general, Jack Conway, a Democrat who is running for governor. His office has said it is looking into the matter.
官员表示或许可以控告她渎职，这是一项轻罪。她若被定罪，法庭则可下令解除她的职务。该县检察官拒绝接手这件事，而是将它交给了州检察长杰克·康韦(Jack Conway)。来自民主党的康韦正在竞选州长，他的办公室表示正在研究此事。
Ms. Davis stopped issuing all marriage licenses after the Supreme Court’s 5-to-4 ruling in June, in the case Obergefell v. Hodges.
最高法院在 6月以5比4的投票结果，对奥贝格费尔诉霍奇斯案(Obergefell v. Hodges)做出判决后，戴维斯便不再签发任何结婚证了。
After Gov. Steven L. Beshear told county clerks to issue marriage licenses to all eligible couples, Ms. Davis filed suit in federal court, arguing that she should be excused from the obligation, given her Apostolic Christian faith. Judge Bunning, who was appointed by President George W. Bush and is the son of a former Republican senator, Jim Bunning, ruled against her, as did the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, and she appealed to the Supreme Court.
在州长史蒂文·L·贝希尔(Steven L. Beshear)让书记官向一切有资格的伴侣发放结婚证时，戴维斯在联邦法院提起了诉讼，称鉴于她信奉基督教使徒派(Apostolic Christian)，应该免除她的这项义务。和第六巡回上诉法院(Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit)一样，邦宁法官也否决了这一请求。邦宁法官由乔治·W·布什总统任命，是前共和党参议员吉姆·邦宁(Jim Bunning)的儿子。之后，戴维斯又上诉至最高法院。
On Monday, a stay granted by Judge Bunning expired, and the Supreme Court rejected without comment Ms. Davis’s emergency application for a new stay, pending the outcome of her appeal. That left her no legal grounds to refuse to grant licenses to same-sex couples.
周一，邦宁法官准许的暂缓发放期限到期。戴维斯曾在等候上诉结果之际紧急申请再度暂缓，但被最高法院未加评论地驳回了。这让她失去了拒绝向同性伴侣发放结婚证的法律依据。
“There’s no doubt about how this saga comes to an end,” said Ronald J. Krotoszynski Jr. a constitutional law expert at the University of Alabama who has followed same-sex marriage cases. “The couples in Rowan County who seek marriage licenses will have them.”
“关于这个漫长的故事将如何落幕，并没有悬念，”阿拉巴马大学(University of Alabama)密切关注同性婚姻案件的宪法专家小罗纳德·J·克罗托申斯基(Ronald J. Krotoszynski Jr.)说。“罗恩县那些想拿到结婚证的伴侣都会如愿。”
Tuesday’s courthouse showdown threw a rare spotlight on this rural patch of Eastern Kentucky, much of it contained within the Daniel Boone National Forest. The county has fewer than 24,000 residents; Morehead, the largest city, has fewer than 7,000.
周二当天，法庭上的对决让这个地处肯塔基州东部农村地区的县，罕见地受到了关注。丹尼尔·布恩国家森林(Daniel Boone National Forest)占据了该地区的很大一部分。全县居民不到2.4万，下辖的最大城镇莫尔黑德人口不足7000人。
Some lawmakers have discussed the possibility of changes to state law to address the issue, but Mr. Beshear, who is not running for re-election, said again that he would not call a special legislative session, so any action would have to wait until next year.
一些议员讨论过为解决这个问题而修改州法律的可能性，但没在谋求连任的贝希尔再度表示，他不会召开特别立法会议，因此任何行动都要等到明年。
By midday Tuesday, the county clerk’s office here was mostly empty, but demonstrators faced each other across a plaza outside the white-columned courthouse.
到周二中午，书记官办公室这里基本已经空了，但在立着白色柱子的政府外面，示威者仍隔着广场，面对面站着。
On one side, Ms. Davis’s supporters held signs with messages including, “Don’t give up. The answer’s on the way.” The clerk’s critics raised their own equally blunt placards with the declarations: “Small town, not small mind,” and “You don’t own marriage.”
其中一边是戴维斯的支持者，他们举着的牌子上写的内容包括，“不要放弃，答案已经在路上了”。批评者也举着标语牌，上面的内容同样直白：“地方小，胸襟不能小”，“婚姻不能由你做主”。
Flavis McKinney, 72, said he had come to the courthouse “to stand up for God and his word, and to stand up for our clerk.”
72岁的弗拉维斯·麦金尼(Flavis McKinney)说，自己来法院“是为了支持上帝和上帝的教诲，同时也是为了支持我们的书记官”。
“I’ve raised five children, 13 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren,” said Mr. McKinney, who is retired. “Been married 52 years to the same wife, and God has blessed us because we’ve done it God’s way, not man’s way. We’ve obeyed God.”
“我养大了五个孩子，13个孙辈和四个曾孙辈，”已退休的麦金尼说。“我和妻子结婚52年，上帝之所以保佑我们，是因为我们是按上帝，而非人的旨意行事的。我们服从上帝。”
But Ms. Davis’s critics, many of whom appeared to be in their 20s and 30s, argued that she personified a dated approach to marriage.
但戴维斯的批评者则表示，她体现了一种过时的婚姻态度。他们中的很多人看上去都是二三十岁。