NAIROBI, Kenya — Seeking to end a siege that has left scores dead and shaken the nation, the Kenyan government said Sunday night that it was pressing an assault against Shabab militant attackers who had been holed up in a Nairobi shopping mall for more than a day.
肯尼亚内罗毕——为了终结一场造成数十人死亡、致使举国震惊的袭击惨案，肯尼亚政府于周日晚间表示，他们正在加紧对制造惨案的青年党(Shabab)武装分子发起进攻。过去的一天多时间里，这些武装分子一直躲在内罗毕的一家商场里。
Late Sunday, the Kenyan military announced that it had retaken “most” of the Westgate mall — the attackers had been confined to the third floor since their initial assault on Saturday — and freed more hostages, though details could not be confirmed. Helicopters circled the mall building through the night, and occasional explosions and bursts of gunfire were heard above a rainstorm in the area.
周日晚间，肯尼亚军方宣布，他们已经重新占领韦斯特盖特(Westgate)购物中心的“大部分区域”，救出了更多人质，不过，其中的细节无法得到确认。自周六发动首次袭击以来，袭击者一直被限制在商场的三楼。直升机整晚都在购物中心上空盘旋，该区域虽然下着大雨，偶尔还是能听到压过雨声的爆炸声和交火声。
“Most areas of the building are now in the control of K.D.F.,” said Col. Cyrus Oguna, referring to the Kenya Defense Forces. He told the television station KTN that most of the hostages taken by the militants had been rescued. “We know the number cannot be more than 10 right now.”
“大楼的大部分区域现在都处于KDF的控制之下，”赛勒斯·奥贡那上校(Cyrus Oguna)说。KDF指的是肯尼亚国防军。奥贡对KTN电视台说，激进分子劫持的大部分人质都已获救。“据我们所知，剩余人质不会超过十个。”
The Shabab, a militant group mostly based in neighboring Somalia, answered with Twitter messages of their own, including warning that “Kenyan forces who’ve just attempted a roof landing must know that they are jeopardizing the lives of all the hostages at #Westgate.”
总部位于邻国索马里的激进组织青年党在Twitter上发布讯息作出回应，其中包括这样的警告，“刚刚试图从屋顶突击的肯尼亚政府军必须明白，他们在危害韦斯特盖特购物中心里所有人质的性命。”
Later, officials said that at least four members of the security forces had been wounded. But there were no other details about additional casualties on either side.
官员们后来表示，至少有四名安保部队成员受伤。不过，没有其他细节能表明双方还有更多的伤亡。
The attack on the mall deeply distressed Kenya, a nation that has grown in stature as a force against terrorism in East Africa. As the toll mounted — at least 68 were reported dead by late Sunday, including one Chinese woman, with several people still unaccounted for — the potential for even greater loss of life seemed tangible.
作为东非的一支反恐力量，肯尼亚的地位已经加强，购物中心袭击事件却让这个国家陷入了深深的哀痛。截至周日晚间，据报至少有68人死亡，包括一名中国女性，另有几人情况不明。随着死亡人数不断上升，更大的伤亡数字似乎不可避免。
Addressing the nation, President Uhuru Kenyatta sounded a note of solidarity in loss, revealing that his nephew and the man’s fiancée were among the dead. “These are young, lovely people I personally knew and loved,” Mr. Kenyatta said. “Many of us have lost loved ones. Let us mourn them all as one nation and keep them always in remembrance and prayer.”
在面向全国的讲话中，肯尼亚总统乌胡鲁·肯雅塔(Uhuru Kenyatta)呼吁痛失亲人的肯尼亚人团结一致，并且告诉民众，他的侄子及准侄媳也已遇难。肯雅塔说，“他们是我的亲人、我的至爱，也是可爱的年轻人。我们当中的许多人都失去了亲人。让我们举国向他们致以哀悼，永远铭记他们，为他们祈祷。”
He said security forces had rescued more than 1,000 people from the mall since the violence began on Saturday, calling the forces’ performance “remarkable and encouraging,” even as he asked for patience from the public as the standoff continued.
他说，自周六发生暴力事件以来，安保部队已经从购物中心中救出了1000多人。他表示，安保部队的表现“值得褒奖、令人鼓舞”。与此同时，由于僵局仍在持续，他要求公众保持耐性。
The assault on Westgate was the deadliest terrorist attack in Kenya since the 1998 Qaeda truck bombing of the American Embassy in Nairobi that killed more than 200 people.
自1998年基地组织(Qaeda)用卡车炸弹袭击美国驻内罗毕大使馆以来，对韦斯特盖特的袭击是肯尼亚境内致死人数最多的恐怖袭击，1998年的袭击造成200多人身亡。
President Obama called Mr. Kenyatta on Sunday to reaffirm the “strong and historic partnership between the United States and Kenya.” That relationship has been strained by the election in March of Mr. Kenyatta, who is being prosecuted at the International Criminal Court on charges of financing death squads during an outbreak of political violence in 2007. Mr. Obama skipped visiting Kenya, his father’s birthplace, on his trip to Africa in late June.
奥巴马总统周日致电肯雅塔，重申“美国和肯尼亚之间有着历史悠久的牢固伙伴关系”。这种关系因肯雅塔在今年3月当选总统而趋于紧张，缘由是国际刑事法院(International Criminal Court )指控肯雅塔曾在2007年的政治暴力活动爆发之际资助暗杀小组。奥巴马今年6月访问了非洲，其间没有造访他父亲的出生地肯尼亚。
The Shabab have said that they staged the mall attack as retribution for the Kenyan military presence in Somalia, where Kenyan troops have driven Shabab fighters out of much of the territory they once controlled. A confidential United Nations security report described the assault on the mall as two-pronged, with groups of gunmen attacking on different floors simultaneously.
青年党表示，他们在该商场发动袭击，目的是报复肯尼亚在索马里的军事存在。在索马里，肯尼亚部队把青年党武装分子赶出了其一度控制的很多地方。联合国(United Nations)的一份秘密安全报告称，商场遭受的是一场双管齐下的袭击，多队持枪者分别从不同楼层同时开枪。
Joseph Ole Lenku, the cabinet secretary for the interior, said Sunday afternoon that from 10 to 15 attackers were inside the mall. Mr. Kenyatta said he could neither confirm nor deny reports that one or more of the attackers were women. The Shabab claimed in a Twitter post that several of the attackers were Americans; a senior law enforcement official in the United States said the Federal Bureau of Investigation had yet to establish whether that claim was true, and that it would be difficult to do so until all the attackers were captured or killed.
周日下午，内务部长约瑟夫·奥利·伦库(Joseph Ole Lenku)称商场里有10至15名袭击者。肯雅塔称，他无法证实或否认袭击者中有一名或多名女性的说法。青年党在一篇Twitter帖子中称，袭击者中有几名美国人；美国的一名高级执法官员称，联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)尚未确定这一说法是否属实，确定的工作也很困难，除非所有袭击者均被抓获或击毙。
The number of bystanders remaining in the building was not as clear, though the Kenya Red Cross, citing the police as its source, said Sunday that 49 people were unaccounted for, raising the prospect of a significantly higher death toll before the crisis ends.
依然困在大楼里的旁观者人数尚不清楚，不过，肯尼亚红十字会(Kenya Red Cross)周日引用警方的消息称，有49人下落不明。由此看来，危机结束之前，遇难人数还可能会显著增加。
Among those killed in the mall were three Britons, the British Foreign Office confirmed Sunday. Five Americans were among the wounded, but none were known to have been killed. News agencies reported that other foreigners were also among the dead.
英国外交部(The British Foreign Office)周日证实，商场遇难者当中有三名英国人。受伤人员中包括五名美国人，但尚无报告称有美国人遇难。新闻媒体报道称，遇难者中还有其他一些外籍人士。
As the identities of victims began to emerge on Sunday, the public mourning of a national tragedy began.
周日，随着遇难者的身份逐渐得到确认，公众开始为这一全国性悲剧哀悼。
One of those killed was Ruhila Adatia-Sood, a popular Kenyan radio host who was in the parking lot of the mall hosting a cooking competition, according to reports. She posted several photos on her Instagram account before the attack.
根据报道，遇难者中包括肯尼亚广受欢迎的电台节目主持人鲁希拉·阿达提亚-苏德(Ruhila Adatia-Sood)，事发之时，她正在商场的停车场主持一场烹饪比赛。袭击发生前，她还在自己的Instagram账户上发布了几张照片。
Also among the dead was Kofi Awoonor, 78, a Ghanaian poet and former professor at the University of Ghana.
78岁的加纳诗人、加纳大学(University of Ghana)前教授科菲·阿沃诺(Kofi Awoonor)也不幸遇难。
Hundreds of relatives and friends of people who were in the mall went to hospitals around the city that were treating the wounded, trying to ascertain the fate of their loved ones.
数百名事发时身在商场者的亲友前往市内各处收治伤者的医院，试图探明亲人的命运。
At the M P Shah Hospital a few miles away from the mall, distressed relatives milled around a tent erected for them outside the building, as volunteers worked to assist them.
在距离商场几英里的MP沙阿医院(M P Shah Hospital)，悲痛不已的亲属在医院外的一个帐篷周围忙作一团。那个帐篷是专门为他们搭建的，还有志愿者为他们提供帮助。
Ruth Nyambura, 26, whose uncle worked at the Nakumatt Supermarket in Westgate at the time of the attack, said she was terrified.
26岁的露丝·尼姆布拉(Ruth Nyambura)说，自己被吓坏了。袭击发生时，她的叔父正在韦斯特盖特商场里的纳库马特超市(Nakumatt Supermarket)上班。
“I have come along with my family just to find out how he’s doing,” Ms. Nyambura said. “He was shot in the head, suffered severe wounds on his one of his eyes and his arms. He was operated on yesterday, and we’ve come to see him again. We are being told to wait because the queue is too long.”
“我和家里人一起来看他怎么样了，”尼姆布拉说，“他头部中枪，一只眼睛和两只胳膊受了重伤。昨天他刚刚做了手术，我们又来看他。人家让我们等着，因为排队的人太多了。”