LONDON — In November 1967, four years after her husband’s assassination, Jacqueline Kennedy traveled to the temples of Angkor Wat in Cambodia on a much-publicized trip with David Ormsby Gore, a friend of her husband and himself a recent widower.
伦敦——1967年11月，杰奎琳·肯尼迪(Jacqueline Kennedy)在丈夫遇刺身亡四年之后，与丈夫的朋友、刚刚经历丧妻之痛的大卫·奥姆斯比·戈尔(David Ormsby Gore)同游柬埔寨吴哥窟的寺庙，这场旅行被大肆报道。
There was much speculation of a romantic attachment. A few months later, Ormsby Gore, a former British ambassador to Washington, proposed marriage. She turned him down.
外界普遍揣测两人在谈恋爱。几个月后，曾任英国驻华盛顿大使的奥姆斯比·戈尔向她求婚。但她拒绝了他。
In a handwritten letter, filled with anguish and a touch of cruelty, she explained her decision to marry Aristotle Onassis instead.
在一份充满痛苦而又带有一丝残酷的手写信件中，她解释了自己为什么决定嫁给另一个人，也就是亚里斯多德·奥纳西斯(Aristotle Onassis)。
“If ever I can find some healing and some comfort — it has to be with somebody who is not part of all my world of past and pain,” she wrote. “I can find that now — if the world will let us.”
“就算我可以找到一点疗愈和慰藉——那也必须是同一个与我的痛苦过去毫无瓜葛的人一起，”她写道。“我现在可以找到那些东西了——如果这个世界还允许我们找到的话。”
The letter was part of a set of papers found in locked red-leather cases discovered only last month in Wales at the family home of Ormsby Gore, who died in 1985. They are being auctioned in London next month by his grandson to help restore the house.
奥姆斯比·戈尔于1985年去世，就在上个月，在他威尔士的家中，有人在若干上着锁的红色皮革箱子里发现了一批信件，这封信也是其中之一。下月，它们将由他的孙子在伦敦拍卖，用以筹措修缮房子的款项。
The letters point to the depth of feeling behind the public mask of one of the most celebrated women of her time.
杰奎琳·肯尼迪是她那个时代最有名的女性之一，这些信件让世人得以一窥私下里的她内心深处的情感。
Among them is the letter to Ormsby Gore, also known as Lord Harlech, dated Nov. 13, 1968, a month after her marriage to Onassis and five months after the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy.
奥姆斯比·戈尔又被称为哈莱克勋爵(Lord Harlech)，这些信件当中，有一封信件上标注的日期是1968年11月13日，也就是她嫁给奥纳西斯一个月之后，当时距离罗伯特·F·肯尼迪(Robert F. Kennedy)遇刺过去了5个月。
In it, she spoke of the love she felt for Ormsby Gore, whose wife had died in a car crash in May 1967. “We have known so much & shared & lost so much together — Even if it isn’t the way you wish now — I hope that bond of love and pain will never be cut.”
她在信中谈及了对奥姆斯比·戈尔的爱——后者的妻子于1967年5月死于车祸。“我们这么了解彼此，又一同分享和失去了这么多——即便不是以你现在所期待的样子——但我希望这种爱与痛的纽带永远不会被切断。”
Writing from Onassis’ yacht in Greece, on stationery with the ship’s crest, a clear if cold message, Kennedy told Ormsby Gore: “You are like my beloved beloved brother — and mentor — and the only original spirit I know — as you were to Jack.”
这封信写于奥纳西斯在希腊的游艇上，信纸上印有那艘游艇的徽章。肯尼迪在信中向奥姆斯比·戈尔传递了一个清晰而又有些冷酷的讯息：“你就像我最深爱的兄长——和导师——也是我认识的最与众不同的人——和你以前对杰克(Jack)来说一样。”
Ormsby Gore had expressed incredulity at her choice of Onassis, and she tried to respond.
奥姆斯比·戈尔曾对她选择奥纳西斯表示质疑，而她试图作出回应。
“Please know — you of all people must know it — that we can never really see into the heart of another,” she wrote. “You know me. And you must know that the man you write of in your letter is not a man that I could marry.”
“我想让你明白——在所有人中，你必须明白——我们永远也不能真正深入彼此的内心，”她写道。“你了解我。你必须知道，你在信中所写的那个男人并不是我可能会嫁的人。”
Onassis, she wrote, is “lonely and wants to protect me from being lonely. And he is wise and kind. Only I can decide if he can, and I decided.
她说奥纳西斯“很孤独，却想要保护我免受孤独之苦。而且他是一个聪明善良的人。只有我能决定他能否保护我，于是我做出了决定。”
“I know it comes as a surprise to so many people,” she continued. “But they see things for me that I never wanted for myself.”
“我知道有太多人对此感到意外，”她继续写道。“他们认为我应该如何如何，但那从不是我想要的。”
Ormsby Gore was an old friend of John F. Kennedy, whose younger sister Kathleen, or Kick, married Ormsby Gore’s first cousin. After John Kennedy’s election in 1960, Prime Minister Harold Macmillan sent Ormsby Gore to Washington as Britain’s ambassador.
奥姆斯比·戈尔是约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)的老友。后者的妹妹凯瑟琳（Kathleen，又称基克[Kick]）嫁给了奥姆斯比·戈尔的表兄。约翰·肯尼迪于1960年当选总统后，奥姆斯比·戈尔被英国首相哈罗德·麦克米伦(Harold Macmillan)派到华盛顿，出任英国大使。
The two men, a year apart in age, were extremely close, and the president consulted him on every key issue of foreign policy, especially during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, and in discussions of Vietnam and nuclear disarmament.
仅有一岁之差的两人关系极为密切，总统会就外交政策方面的每一个重要议题向他咨询，尤其是在1962年古巴导弹危机期间，以及关于越南及核裁军的讨论中。
Robert Kennedy said that Ormsby Gore was “almost a part of the government,” adding that the president “would rather have his judgment than that of anybody else.”
罗伯特·肯尼迪说奥姆斯比·戈尔“差不多是政府的一份子”，还说总统“对他的意见非常重视，其他任何人都不能与之相比”。
Among the letters is one in which the president praised the ambassador: “I appreciate as you know, in all these critical matters your judgment — which I have found to be uniformly good and true.”
新发现的信件中，有一封是总统以赞许的语气写给大使的：“如你所知，我在所有这些重要事项上都很重视你的意见——我发现你的意见总是那么好、那么现实”。
Ormsby Gore inherited his father’s title, Lord Harlech, when he died in 1964. His grandson Jasset, who inherited the title a year ago, is the one selling the papers, along with other possessions, at Bonhams, London, in an auction scheduled for March 29.
奥姆斯比·戈尔在父亲去世时继承了哈莱克勋爵的头衔。他的孙子加塞特(Jasset)于一年前继承了该头衔，他将在伦敦邦瀚斯(Bonhams) 计划于3月29日举行的拍卖会上卖掉这些信件以及其他物品。
Some of the letters will be on view March 2 at the Bonhams showroom in New York.
部分信件将于3月2日在邦瀚斯的纽约展厅展出。
In total, there are 18 handwritten letters and one typed letter from Jacqueline Kennedy to Ormsby Gore, as well as other papers. Those include a pass admitting him to the White House for Nov. 23, 1963, one day after the assassination; a jocular 1963 letter from Robert Kennedy, signed “Bobby”; and instructions for pallbearers for Robert Kennedy’s funeral.
拍品共包括18封杰奎琳·肯尼迪寄给奥姆斯比·戈尔的手写信件和一封打印信件，以及其他一些函件。其中包括一份通行证，戈尔可以凭此在1963年11月23日，也就是总统遇刺次日前往白宫；还有一封1963年罗伯特·肯尼迪寄给他的信件，口吻颇为风趣，落款为“博比”(Bobby)；此外还有写给罗伯特·肯尼迪葬礼护柩者的指南。
The papers include a letter Jacqueline Kennedy wrote to Ormsby Gore after the death of his wife, Sylvia, known as Sissie, which seemed to foreshadow his desire to marry her.
这些函件中有一封杰奎琳·肯尼迪在奥姆斯比·戈尔的妻子希尔维亚（Sylvia，又称西西[Sissie]）去世后写给他的信。这封信似乎预示着他想要娶她。
“Your last letter was such a cri de coeur of loneliness — I would do anything to take that anguish from you,” she wrote. “You want to patch the wounds & match the loose pairs — but you can’t because your life won’t turn out that way.”
“你在上一封信中吐露了孤独之感——为了让你远离这种痛苦，我愿意做任何事情，”她写道。“你想要缝合伤口，想要把落单的袜子组合起来——但你不能，因为生活不是这个样子的。”
One of the most moving documents is a draft letter Ormsby Gore wrote to Jacqueline Kennedy after she turned down his proposal.
有些文档特别能打动人，其中一份是奥姆斯比·戈尔求婚被拒后写给杰奎琳·肯尼迪的信件的草稿。
“All the pathetic plans I had brought with me for visits to Cyrenaica, holidays near one another and a whole variety of solutions to our marriage problem, including one for a secret marriage this summer — plans which I saw us eagerly discussing, calmly and with complete frankness as we did at the Cape and in Cambodia for the next wonderful ten days — all had become irrelevant trash to be thrown away within a few hours of my landing in New York,” he wrote.
“我在访问昔西里內伊卡时曾经有过那么多可怜的计划：一连串的假期，还有用来应对我们婚姻问题的各种办法，包括今年夏天秘密结婚的打算——我想象我们热烈地讨论这些计划，平和而又全然坦诚地讨论，就像我们在科德角和柬埔寨时讨论关于接下来美好十天的计划一样——所有的一切在我抵达纽约几小时后都变成了无关紧要的垃圾，即将遭到丢弃，”他写道。
“As for your photograph I weep when I look at it. Why do such agonizing things have to happen? Where was the need for it?”
“至于你的照片，我一看到就要流泪。这些让人痛苦的事情为什么必须发生？有必要这样吗？”
Matthew Haley, the head of fine books and manuscripts at Bonhams, said that “you just don’t get this quantity of insight into Jackie’s personal life and that level of intimacy.”
邦瀚斯珍藏书籍和手稿部负责人马修·哈利(Matthew Haley)说，“世人从不曾对杰基(Jackie)的私人生活以及两人之间如此亲密的关系有这么多了解。”
Ormsby Gore was her husband’s great friend, but “the fact that they developed such an intimate friendship in such a short space of time is important,” he said, even if built on shared sadness.
奥姆斯比·戈尔是她丈夫的好友，但“重要的是，他们俩在这么短的时间里发展出了如此亲密的友谊，”哈利说——尽管这种友谊建立在共同的悲伤之上。
Contacted about the letters Friday, a representative of the Kennedy family said that family members had decided not to comment.
肯尼迪家族的代表称，该家族的成员拒绝就这些信件置评。
Ormsby Gore did marry again, in December 1969, to Pamela Colin, an American who bore more than a passing resemblance to Jacqueline Onassis. He died at 66, after a car crash. Jacqueline Onassis attended his funeral.
奥姆斯比·戈尔于1969年11月再婚，迎娶了相貌和杰奎琳·奥纳西斯颇为相似的美国人帕梅拉·科林(Pamela Colin)。他于66岁那年在遭遇一场车祸后去世。杰奎琳·奥纳西斯参加了他的葬礼。