The San Francisco Gay Men’s Chorus sang “Give ’Em Hope” for a revered and in some ways surprising guest who shared a California stage with them last month: Justice Anthony M. Kennedy.
上个月，旧金山男同性恋合唱团(San Francisco Gay Men’s Chorus)为一位尊贵的、在某些方面显得出人意料的客人演唱了歌曲《给他们希望》(Give ’Em Hope)。在某种意义上，这位和他们共同出现在加州舞台上的客人，就是最高法院大法官安东尼·M·肯尼迪(Anthony M. Kennedy)。
Justice Kennedy was in San Francisco for an American Bar Association meeting, but he was also there to be celebrated by the men on the risers behind him. In remarks from the stage, San Francisco’s mayor, Edwin M. Lee, thanked the justice “for upholding the Constitution and justice for all” in his majority opinion in June in United States v. Windsor, a major gay rights victory.
肯尼迪大法官到旧金山是为了参加美国律师协会(American Bar Association)的会议，但也是为了接受他身后合唱梯台上男人们的欢呼。旧金山市长李孟贤(Edwin M. Lee)在台上发表讲话时，感谢大法官在今年6月“美国诉温莎案”(United States v. Windsor)的主要意见书中，“为所有人维护了宪法和正义，”该案是同性恋权益领域的重大胜利。
“Freedom is always a work in progress,” Justice Kennedy said in his own remarks, making clear that there was more work to be done.
在其个人意见中，肯尼迪大法官说，“自由是一项尚未完成的事业，”他的话清晰地表明，还有许多工作要做。
Justice Kennedy has emerged as the most important judicial champion of gay rights in the nation’s history, having written three landmark opinions on the subject, including this summer’s Windsor decision, which overturned a ban on federal benefits for married same-sex couples. Those rulings collectively represent a new chapter in the nation’s civil rights law, and they have cemented his legacy as a hero to the gay rights movement.
肯尼迪大法官已经成为美国历史上最重要的同性权益司法捍卫者，他已经就该问题起草了三份意义重大的意见书，包括今夏的温莎裁决，该裁决推翻了一项对已婚同性恋伴侣享受联邦福利的禁令。这些裁决共同翻开了美国民权法的一页新篇章，也巩固了肯尼迪作为同性权益运动英雄的成就。
“He is the towering giant in the jurisprudence of freedom and equality for gay people,” said Evan Wolfson, the president of Freedom to Marry and one of the architects of the political and legal push for same-sex marriage.
“婚姻自由”(Freedom to Marry)主席、倡导以政治和法律手段推动同性婚姻的伊万·沃尔夫森(Evan Wolfson)说，“在为同性恋群体树立自由平等的判例方面，他是令人高山仰止的泰斗。”
That push has taken on momentum thanks to the Windsor decision, which gay rights groups are citing in challenges to state bans on same-sex marriage. On Thursday, the Internal Revenue Service said it would implement the Windsor ruling by recognizing the unions of all lawfully married same-sex couples, including those living in states that do not allow same-sex marriage.
多亏了温莎案的裁决结果，这股推动同性权益的势头已加快了速度，同性权益组织在挑战各州对同性婚姻的禁令时，纷纷引用这一判例。周四，美国国税局(Internal Revenue Service)表示，该机构将执行温莎案判决结果，承认所有合法成婚的同性夫妻的婚姻地位，其中包括那些在不批准同性婚姻的州居住的同性伴侣。
On Saturday, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who joined Justice Kennedy’s majority opinion in Windsor, became the first member of the court to officiate at a same-sex wedding.
周六，在温莎案上和肯尼迪意见一致的大法官鲁思·巴德·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)成为了最高法院中首位主持同性婚礼的成员。
The praise now being showered on Justice Kennedy by gay rights advocates — and the deep disappointment of conservatives — would have been hard to imagine when President Ronald Reagan nominated him to the Supreme Court in 1987. Gay rights groups were more than a little wary then.
1987年，罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)提名肯尼迪担任最高法院大法官时，恐怕难以想象同性恋维权人士会在今日铺天盖地地赞美他，也难以想象保守派对他深感失望。那个时候，同性恋权利组织对他还是相当警惕的。
On the federal appeals court in California, where Justice Kennedy had served for 13 years, he heard five cases concerning gay rights. He voted against the gay rights claim every time.
肯尼迪在加利福尼亚的联邦上诉法院工作了13年，在那里审理了五宗与同性恋权利有关的案子。每一次他都投票反对同性恋的权利诉求。
“I have to say that Kennedy seems rather obtuse on important gay issues and must be counted as a likely vote against us on most matters likely to come before the Supreme Court,” Arthur S. Leonard, an authority on gay rights at New York Law School, wrote in The New York Native, a newspaper that focused on gay issues.
纽约法学院(New York Law School)同性恋权威阿瑟·S·里昂那多(Arthur S. Leonard)在关注同性恋问题的报纸《纽约人》(The New York Native)上写道，“我必须要说，在重要的同性恋议题上，肯尼迪的态度似乎有点含糊，在大多数很可能提交给最高法院的案件上，我们不得不认定，他的投票可能和我们相反。”
The justice’s trajectory since then has been a product of overlapping factors, associates and observers say. His Supreme Court jurisprudence is characterized by an expansive commitment to individual liberty. He believes that American courts should consider international norms, and foreign courts have expanded gay rights. His politics, reflecting his background as a Sacramento lawyer and lobbyist, tend toward fiscal conservatism and moderate social views. And he has long had gay friends.
同事和观察人士说，自那以后，大法官的人生轨迹一直是各种因素叠加的产物。他在最高法院的判例表现出他对个人自由有着全面的体认。他相信，美国法院应该考虑国际规范，而国外法院已经扩大了同性恋的权利。在政治上，他偏向财政保守主义和温和的社会观，这反映了他的背景，他曾在萨克拉曼多当过律师和说客。多年来他也一直都有同性恋朋友。
Michael C. Dorf, a law professor at Cornell who served as a law clerk to Justice Kennedy, said the key to understanding his former boss was the culture of his home state.
康奈尔大学(Cornell)法学教授迈克尔·C·多尔夫(Michael C. Dorf)曾是肯尼迪的法官助理，他说，了解他的前上司的关键，在于了解他出身的州的文化。
“The way to think about his instincts is that he is fundamentally a California Republican,” Professor Dorf said. “It’s not surprising that a California Republican in 1987 would be expected to be at best an unreliable ally for gay rights groups.”
多尔夫说，“要了解他的天性就是要认清一点，他从根本上是一名加州共和党人。一个1987年的加州共和党人充其量只能成为同性权益团体的一个靠不住的盟友，这并不意外。”
In the 1980s, California Republicans, like most Americans, had deep reservations about the notion of gay equality. But there were also early stirrings of the gay rights movement in California.
和大多数美国人一样，上世纪80年代，加州的共和党人对同性恋平等观念持极度保留的态度。不过，在加州也出现了同性恋权利运动的早期萌芽。
Harvey Milk, a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors and one of the first openly gay elected officials, delivered a landmark gay rights speech in 1978 (on which the song “Give ’Em Hope” was based). Mr. Milk was assassinated later that year.
旧金山监事会(San Francisco Board of Supervisors)成员哈维·米尔克(Harvey Milk)于1978年发表了里程碑式的同性恋权利演说，他是公开同性恋身份后当选的官员之一（演讲的背景音乐正是《给他们希望》）。米尔克于当年晚些时候遇刺身亡。
The same year, Reagan, a former California governor preparing to run for president, helped defeat a ballot initiative that would have made it easy to fire gay teachers.
同年，准备参加总统竞选的前加州州长里根出手相助，推翻了一项允许学校轻易解雇同性恋教师的选票提案。
Over time, some leading California Republicans moved more on the issue than many Republicans elsewhere. Theodore B. Olson, a Northern Californian who served as the United States solicitor general under President George W. Bush, helped lead the fight to overturn Proposition 8, the state’s ban on same-sex marriage.
随着时间的推移，在同性恋权利问题上，加州共和党内的领导人物比其他地区的许多共和党党员走得更远。曾在乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统任内担任美国总检察长的北加州人西奥多·B·奥尔森(Theodore B. Olson)相助主导了推翻“8号提案”——即在加州禁止同性婚姻——的斗争。
Justice Kennedy’s three major gay rights decisions are in this tradition, Professor Dorf said. They also hark back to a third California Republican, Chief Justice Earl Warren, another former governor, who wrote Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 decision barring segregation in public schools.
多尔夫说，肯尼迪做出的三个重要的同性恋权利判决，和这种传统是一脉相承的。它们还让人想起第三名加州共和党人、首席大法官厄尔·沃伦(Earl Warren)，他也曾担任州长，他曾就“布朗诉教育委员会”(Brown v. Board of Education)一案做出判决，这项1954年的判决禁止公立学校实施种族隔离。
Romer v. Evans, in 1996, struck down a Colorado constitutional amendment that had banned laws protecting gay men and lesbians. Lawrence v. Texas, in 2003, struck down laws making gay sex a crime. And in June, Justice Kennedy wrote the Windsor decision.
1996年，罗默诉埃文斯案(Romer v. Evans)推翻了科罗拉多州宪法修正案，该修正案禁止立法保护男女同性恋者。2003年，劳伦斯诉德克萨斯案(Lawrence v. Texas)推翻了将同性性行为入罪的法律。今年6月，肯尼迪就温莎案做出了判决。
In 1987, gay rights advocates could see little of this coming. Jeffrey Levi, then the executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, testified against Justice Kennedy at his confirmation hearings, saying that “his past opinions offer little hope to gays and lesbians challenging adverse treatment in the courts.”
对于后来发生的一切，同性恋维权人士在1987年几乎看不到半点征兆。全国同性恋工作组(National Gay and Lesbian Task Force)时任执行理事杰弗里·利瓦伊(Jeffrey Levi)在肯尼迪的任命确认听证会上作证反对他，说“他过去的意见书，给在法庭上挑战恶劣待遇的同性恋者没有带去多少希望。”
Professor Levi, who now teaches health policy at George Washington University, said in an e-mail that “there was no way to predict that Justice Kennedy would ‘evolve’ as he did (given prior opinions on gays in the military, immigration and federal employment).”
现在乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)教授卫生政策的利瓦伊教授在一封电子邮件里说，“（鉴于他之前在军事、移民和联邦就业方面对同性恋的意见），人们根本无法预料到，肯尼迪后来会发生这样的‘演变’”。
Professor Levi drew a comparison to Dr. C. Everett Koop, whose nomination as surgeon general under Reagan was opposed by gay rights groups based on hostile statements he had made.
利瓦伊把他和C·埃弗里特·库普(C. Everett Koop)相提并论，后者曾在里根时期被提名为总医官，由于发表敌视同性恋的言论，他的提名遭到了同性恋团体的反对。
“He turned out to be a hero of the early fight against AIDS,” Professor Levi said of Dr. Koop.
利瓦伊曾这么说库普，“结果证明，他是一名参与早期反艾滋病斗争的英雄。”
Justice Harry A. Blackmun, who wrote the majority opinion in 1973 in Roe v. Wade, which established a constitutional right to abortion, warned Justice Kennedy to expect harsh criticism when he stood up for gay rights.
大法官哈里·A·布莱克门(Harry A. Blackmun)警告肯尼迪，说当他捍卫同性恋权利时，会遭到激烈的批判。在1973年的罗伊诉韦德案(Roe v. Wade)中，布莱克门起草了主要意见书，该案确立了堕胎是一种宪法权利。