NAIROBI, Kenya — The United Nations and Kenyan officials on Wednesday announced the discovery of a potentially enormous underground supply of water, a find they said could improve the lives of generations of people in impoverished northern Kenya, if not the entire nation.
肯尼亚内罗毕——联合国(United Nations)和肯尼亚官员本周三宣布，发现了储量可能相当巨大的水资源，他们说，这一发现能改善世代居住在贫困的肯尼亚北部地区居民的生活，并可能惠及所有肯尼亚人。
With water security a growing concern around the world, the discovery of five aquifers in drought-plagued Turkana County could help secure Kenya’s access to the most critical of natural resources, particularly in the arid north.
随着水安全问题在全球受到越来越高的关注，在干旱肆虐的图尔卡纳县发现五个含水层，有助于确保肯尼亚获得最关键的自然资源，在干旱的北部地区尤其如此。
Out of a population of roughly 41 million people, 17 million Kenyans lack sufficient access to safe drinking water and 28 million are without adequate sanitation, said the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, known as Unesco.
联合国教科文组织(United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization，简称Unesco)表示，肯尼亚有约4100万人口，其中有1700万人口缺乏足够的途径获得安全的饮用水，有2800万人口没有足够的卫生设施。
“This newly found wealth of water opens a door to a more prosperous future for the people of Turkana and the nation as a whole,” Judi Wakhungu, Kenya’s secretary for the environment, water and natural resources, said in a Unesco statement on Wednesday. “We must now work to further explore these resources responsibly and safeguard them for future generations.”
肯尼亚环境、水和自然资源部长朱迪·瓦昆古(Judi Wakhungu)在Unesco周三发表的声明中表示，“新发现的水源为图尔卡纳的民众和整个国家开辟了走向更加繁荣未来的道路。 现在，我们必须进一步负责任地利用这些资源，为子孙后代保护好它们。”
In addition to potentially providing drinking water, the vast underground supplies could be used as a source of irrigation for crops or to water livestock. Malnutrition has been a growing problem among the Turkana people, and a new supply of water could help head off conflicts over scarce resources in the region, where deadly cattle raids are common.
除了提供潜在的饮用水，巨大的地下水源还可以被用来灌溉农作物、或供牲畜饮用。在图尔卡纳人当中，营养不良已经成为一个日益严峻的问题，新的水源有助于避免当地因资源稀缺而爆发冲突，在这里，致人丧命的牲畜偷盗事件相当普遍。
The finds were a product of cooperation between the Kenyan government and Unesco, with the financial support of Japan. According to Unesco, further study is needed to determine exactly how much water there is and its quality. It also remains to be seen how easy and expensive tapping the new supply will be.
此次发现是肯尼亚政府和Unesco在日本的资助下联合取得的成果。据Unesco透露，他们需要进行进一步研究，以确切判断水源储量和质量。开发新水源的难易度和成本也有待观察。
The Lotikipi Basin Aquifer — which by one estimate is roughly the size of Rhode Island — and the smaller Lodwar Basin Aquifer were discovered using advanced satellite technology and confirmed with drilling. The other three aquifers still need to be confirmed through drilling, Unesco said.
根据某项估计，洛塔吉皮盆地含水层(Lotikipi Basin Aquifer)的面积和罗得岛相仿，它与较小的洛德瓦尔盆地含水层(Lodwar Basin Aquifer)是利用先进的卫星技术发现的，并经钻探得到确认。Unesco说，其他三个含水层依然需要通过钻探加以确认。
Gretchen Kalonji, Unesco’s assistant director general for natural sciences, said in the statement that the find “clearly demonstrates how science and technology can contribute to industrialization and economic growth, and to resolving real societal issues like access to water.”
Unesco自然科学助理总干事格雷琴·卡隆基(Gretchen Kalonji)在声明中说，这项发现“清楚地表明，科学技术能促进工业化和经济增长，并能解决真正的社会问题，比如水资源的获取。”
Radar Technologies International, the natural resources exploration firm that discovered the aquifers, said that they contained “a minimum reserve of 250 billion cubic meters of water,” or about 66 trillion gallons, and that rainfall in Kenya and Uganda refilled them with about 898 billion gallons annually.
发现含水层的自然资源勘探公司雷达国际技术公司(Radar Technologies International)表示，这些含水层的“最小储量达到了2500亿立方米”（大约66万亿加仑），每年，肯尼亚和乌干达的降雨能给这些含水层补充8980亿加仑的水。
Unesco described the find as a scientific triumph and one that it hoped to replicate elsewhere. “We will continue to support Africa to unlock the full potential of its invisible water wealth,” Ms. Kalonji said.
Unesco形容此次发现是科学的一次胜利，该组织希望，能够在其他地区复制这一成果。卡隆基说，“我们将继续支持非洲，充分释放其无形水财富的潜力。”