NAIROBI, Kenya — The bloody standoff at a Kenyan shopping mall edged closer to a conclusion on Monday night, with Kenyan officials saying that their troops were securing the building and that there were no more civilians trapped inside.
肯尼亚内罗毕——周一夜间，肯尼亚购物中心的血腥对峙终于即将结束；肯尼亚官方称，他们的军队正在保护这栋楼的安全，里面已无任何平民被困。
“We’re in control of #Westgate,” Kenya’s Interior Ministry said in a Twitter message late Monday night, referring to the large, upscale mall that Islamist militants stormed on Saturday, killing more than 60 people, including a Chinese woman.
“我们已经控制了韦斯特盖特(Westgate)，”周一深夜，肯尼亚内政部在Twitter上发讯息称。韦斯特盖特是一家大型高档购物中心，周六，一群伊斯兰武装分子袭击了这里，共造成60多人死亡，包括一名中国女性。
Among the militants were two or three young American men who appeared to be of Somali or Arab origin, Kenya’s foreign minister, Amina Mohamed, said Monday. In an interview on PBS, Ms. Mohamed said the American attackers were originally from Minnesota or Missouri. “That just goes to underline the global nature of the war that we’re fighting,” she said.
肯尼亚外交部长阿米娜·默罕默德(Amina Mohamed)周一表示，武装分子中有两到三名年轻美国男子，他们的祖籍似乎是索马里或阿拉伯国家。默罕默德在美国公共电视网(PBS)的采访中说，这些美国袭击者原本来自明尼苏达州或密苏里州。她说，“这一点正好突显了我们这场战争的国际性。”
For more than two days, Kenyan forces have struggled to vanquish the militants, who, after killing shoppers, holed up in various corners of the mall with military-grade weaponry. Hundreds of elite Kenyan troops — backed by armored personnel carriers, helicopters, planes and security officials from Israel, France, Britain and the United States — have been deployed, but the militants, estimated to number from 10 to 15, refused to surrender and held their ground.
在两天多的时间里，肯尼亚部队费了很大力气来消灭这些武装分子。杀害多名顾客之后，这些武装分子一直藏身于购物中心的各个角落，手里还拿着军用级武器。在装甲运兵车、直升机、飞机以及来自以色列、法国、英国和美国的安全官员的支持下，数百名肯尼亚精英士兵来到了现场，预计人数为10到15名的武装分子却依然严守阵地，拒绝投降。
By late Monday night, the sound of gunfire had tapered off and Kenyan news media reported that all the militants had been killed.
周一深夜，枪声逐渐减少，肯尼亚媒体报道称，所有武装分子都已被击毙。
“We believe all hostages have been released,” said the Kenya National Disaster Operation Center in a Twitter message. “Special forces and KDF soldiers combing the building. Situation of hostiles to be confirmed.”
“我们认为，所有人质都已获救，”肯尼亚国家灾害应变中心(Kenya National Disaster Operation Center)在Twitter上说，“特种部队和肯尼亚国防军正在清理这栋建筑。敌方的情况尚待确定。”
Kenyan officials have repeatedly tried to reassure the country — and the world — that they were bringing the crisis under control, mindful of the damage to the nation’s image as a cornerstone of stability in an often turbulent region.
肯尼亚官员一直试图让肯尼亚民众及国际社会相信，他们已经控制了这场危机，因为他们担心此事会损害肯尼亚作为这个经常动荡地区的稳定基石的形象。
Kenya is a crucial American partner, whose security forces work closely with their Western counterparts to contain Islamist militants in the region. Now Kenya’s capital, considered an oasis of prosperity in this part of Africa and an important base for Western embassies and businesses, has become a battleground in the conflict, and there is growing concern that this attack will not be the last.
肯尼亚是美国的重要伙伴，其安保部队一直在与西方相关部门密切合作，共同遏制该地区的伊斯兰武装分子。肯尼亚的首都向来被看做非洲东部的一片繁荣绿洲，也是西方使领馆和公司的重要聚集地，如今却成了这次冲突的战场。除此之外，人们越来越担心，这样的袭击不会是最后一次。
Several witnesses said that some of the ringleaders of the assault — in which masked gunmen moved methodically through the crowded mall on Saturday, killing men, women and children — may have escaped during the initial confusion. One witness said that an assailant quickly tore off his clothes and changed into a new outfit before running out, hands raised, blending in with a crowd of fleeing civilians.
几名目击者说，此次袭击的一些头目可能已经在刚开始的混乱中逃脱。在周六的袭击当中，蒙面持枪者有条不紊地在拥挤的商场中穿行，开枪射杀男女老少。一名目击者说，一个袭击者迅速扯下自己的衣服，换上一身新行头，然后才往商场外面跑，并且举着双手，混进了正在逃离现场的人群。
Security officials in Nairobi said that two other militants — both women who appeared to be directing other assailants during the killings — also managed to escape after the initial stage of the attack, raising fears that well-trained terrorists could be on the loose in Nairobi. Several witnesses have said that some of the militants were clearly not African and may have been from Western countries.
内罗毕的安全官员说，另两名武装分子——两人皆为女性，似乎在杀人过程中扮演着指挥角色——也在袭击的初始阶段逃了出去，人们由此担心，这些训练有素的恐怖分子会在内罗毕逍遥法外。几名目击者说，一些武装分子明显不是非洲人，有可能来自西方国家。
Kenya’s security forces have a reputation for being lowly paid and underequipped, and they seem to have been ill-prepared for a complex hostage situation against die-hard militants like this. According to several Western officials, the Kenyans initially rebuffed offers of assistance from the American government and turned instead to the Israelis, who dispatched advisers from the Israeli Defense Forces. Those advisers have been working closely with the Kenyan commandos inside the mall, helping plan specific tactical operations, though officials said the Israeli advisers had not engaged in any combat and had stayed out of public view.
肯尼亚安全部队以工资低、装备不足而著称，面对局面复杂的人质劫持事件和如此顽固的武装分子，他们似乎准备不足。据几名西方官员透露，肯尼亚人最初断然拒绝了美国政府的援助提议，转而向以色列人寻求帮助，后者则派遣以色列国防军(Israel Defense Forces)的顾问前去援助。这些顾问与商场内的肯尼亚突击队员密切合作，帮助策划具体的战术行动。不过，官员们表示，以色列顾问并没有参与作战，而且远离了公众视线。
On Monday afternoon, Kenyan security officials acknowledged that the effort to end the standoff had taken longer than expected, though they offered a different account of their setbacks, saying that about 10 Kenyan soldiers had been injured but none killed.
周一下午，肯尼亚安全官员承认，终结僵持局面的行动花费的时间比预期长。与此同时，他们为行动受挫给出了不同的描述，称有10名肯尼亚士兵受伤，但没有人死亡。
The Shabab, a brutal Somali extremist group that had at least 20 fighters from the United States in 2010, many of them young Somali-Americans from a gritty part of Minneapolis, claimed responsibility for the siege on the mall. Its spokesmen said that the attack was revenge for Kenya’s military incursion into Somalia, which began in 2011, when Kenya sent thousands of troops across the border to push back the Shabab.
凶残的索马里极端组织青年党(Shabab)宣称对围攻商场事件负责。2010年，该组织有至少20名来自美国的武装分子，其中很多都是来自明尼阿波利斯某个贫困城区的索马里裔美籍年轻人。其发言人表示，袭击事件是对肯尼亚军事入侵索马里的报复，入侵行动始于2011年，当时肯尼亚派遣数千名士兵跨越边境击退青年党。
Three years ago, the group also claimed credit for the coordinated bombings that killed more than 70 people in Uganda as crowds gathered to watch the World Cup, calling it retribution for Uganda’s decision to send troops to Somalia as part of the African Union’s effort to stabilize the country.
三年前，该组织还曾声称为发生在乌干达的连环爆炸事件负责，当时人们聚集在一起观看世界杯比赛，爆炸造成逾70人死亡。该组织称，这是对乌干达决定向索马里派遣部队的惩罚，该决定是非洲联盟(African Union)促使索马里保持稳定的举措的一部分。
But the possible presence of militants from outside of Africa in the mall attack — and the way the assailants fended off attempts to dislodge them — has raised questions about the Shabab’s latest claims. Some Western security officials are now beginning to wonder if other terrorist groups may be involved.
然而，可能有非洲之外的武装分子参与商场袭击事件的事实，以及这些袭击者抵御驱逐行动的方式，都让人质疑青年党最新的负责声明。一些西方安全官员已经开始怀疑，是否有其他恐怖组织参与其中。
“This whole thing seems more advanced than anything the Shabab has ever done,” said one Western security official, who did not want to be identified because the operations were still continuing.
一名西方安全官员表示，“整件事情似乎比青年党之前的所有行动高级得多。”由于行动仍在继续，这名官员要求匿名。
“They are clearly a multinational collection from all over the world,” said Julius Karangi, chief of the Kenyan general staff. The five-story Westgate shopping mall sits in Nairobi’s Westlands neighborhood, tucked among winding forested roads. Onlookers crept through the trees as the smoke billowed up, trying to catch a closer look. Jittery police officers used tear gas to drive them back and keep the roads clear for the heavy military vehicles entering and exiting the secured area throughout the day.
肯尼亚总参谋长尤里乌斯·卡兰吉(Julius Karangi)说，“他们明显来自世界各地的多个国家。”五层高的韦斯特盖特购物中心坐落在内罗毕的韦斯特兰居民区，隐藏在蜿蜒的林道之中。商场上空腾起烟雾之时，旁观者蹑手蹑脚地穿过树木，试图近距离围观。紧张不安的警察利用催泪瓦斯迫使他们后退，保持道路通畅，保证重型军用车辆全天顺利进出安全区域。
On Monday afternoon, squads of troops rushed inside the burning building, and long bursts of automatic gunfire rang out, causing onlookers blocks away to hit the deck.
周一下午，一队队士兵冲进了着火的商场建筑，之后就爆发出久久不停的自动武器交火声音，导致几个街区之外的旁观者伏地隐藏。
“We are also closing in on the attackers,” said David Kimaiyo, inspector general of the National Police Service, in a Twitter post earlier on Monday.
周一早些时候，肯尼亚国家警察局(National Police Service)警察总监戴维·基迈约(David Kimaiyo)在Twitter发帖称，“我们也在接近袭击者。”
The attack killed people from many countries: France; Britain; Canada; India; China and Ghana, among others. Many Kenyans fear that the crisis could seriously hurt the economy, which is fueled by tourism and outside investment and is highly vulnerable to swings in perception.
袭击事件的遇难者来自多个国家，其中包括法国、英国、加拿大、印度、中国和加纳。很多肯尼亚人担心，此次危机会严重损害经济发展，因为该国经济主要依靠旅游业和外部投资，极易受到舆论风向的影响。