WASHINGTON — Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of John F. Kennedy and one of President Obama’s most prominent supporters, was sworn in Tuesday as the United States ambassador to Japan.
华盛顿——周二，约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)之女、奥巴马总统最重要的支持者之一卡洛琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)宣誓就任美国驻日大使。
The ceremony, which was off limits to the news media, was held in Secretary of State John Kerry’s outer office on the seventh floor of the State Department. Mr. Kerry and William J. Burns, the deputy secretary of state, attended, as well as Ms. Kennedy’s husband, Edwin Schlossberg, and their son, John.
就职典礼在国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)位于国务院(State Department)大楼7层的办公室里举行，不对媒体开放。克里、副国务卿威廉·J·伯恩斯(William J. Burns)，以及卡洛琳·肯尼迪的丈夫埃德温·施罗斯伯格(Edwin Schlossberg)和儿子约翰(John)出席了典礼。
Ms. Kennedy, 55, a lawyer and an author who has served as the director of numerous nonprofit organizations, has never worked in government and has no special expertise in Japan. She is expected to leave for Japan on Thursday.
肯尼迪今年55岁，身为律师和作家的她曾在很多非营利机构担任负责人。她从未在政府中工作过，对于日本也没有特别的专长。她将于周四动身前往日本。
The diplomatic post in Tokyo has often been reserved for political heavyweights, including former Vice President Walter F. Mondale; Howard H. Baker, a former senator and White House chief of staff; and Thomas S. Foley, a former House speaker. Ms. Kennedy replaced John V. Roos, a lawyer and major fund-raiser for Mr. Obama.
驻日大使的职位一般会留给重要政治人物，比如前副总统沃尔特·F·蒙代尔(Walter F. Mondale)、前参议员及白宫幕僚长霍华德·H·贝克(Howard H. Baker)和前众议院议长托马斯·S·福利(Thomas S. Foley)。肯尼迪接替了约翰·V·鲁斯(John V. Roos)的位置，鲁斯是一名律师，也是奥巴马的一个主要筹款人。
Ms. Kennedy’s close relationship with the White House has been the subject of speculation in Asia, and her appointment as ambassador will most likely be seen as an indication of Tokyo’s growing influence in Washington.
在亚洲，人们一直在纷纷揣度肯尼迪与白宫的密切关系；她被任命为大使，很可能意味着东京对华盛顿的影响力正在增加。
Kurt M. Campbell, a former assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, said after Ms. Kennedy’s nomination in July that “what you really want in an ambassador is someone who can get the president of the United States on the phone.”
今年7月，负责东亚事务的前助理国务卿库尔特·M·坎贝尔(Kurt M. Campbell)在肯尼迪被提名后说，“其实人们对大使的真正要求是，能够让美国总统接电话。”
“I can’t think of anybody in the United States who could do that more quickly than Caroline Kennedy,” he said.
他说，“我认为美国不会有任何一个人，能比卡洛琳·肯尼迪更快完成这项任务。”
Testifying at her confirmation hearing, Ms. Kennedy said that she first visited Japan in 1978 with her uncle, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
肯尼迪在她的确认听证会上说，她首次到日本是1978年，那时是与她的叔叔马萨诸塞州参议员爱德华·M·肯尼迪(Edward M. Kennedy)一起去的。
“This appointment has a special significance as we commemorate the 50th anniversary of my father’s presidency,” she told the panel. “I am conscious of my responsibility to uphold the ideals he represented: a deep commitment to public service, a more just America and a more peaceful world.”
“此次任命的意义非同一般，因为这是我父亲担任美国总统的50周年纪念日，”她对听证小组说。“我知道我有责任发扬他所代表的理想：笃定地投身公众服务、建立一个更加公正的美国和一个更和平的世界。”
Ms. Kennedy and Senator Kennedy endorsed Mr. Obama’s candidacy in 2008 at a critical moment in his Democratic primary contest.
2008年民主党初选角逐中，奥巴马在争夺候选人提名的关键时刻，得到了卡洛琳·肯尼迪与参议员爱德华·肯尼迪的支持。
The Japanese Foreign Ministry has welcomed the nomination, noting that her choice reflected “the great importance the Obama administration attaches to the Japan-U.S. alliance.”
日本外交部对肯尼迪的提名表示欢迎，并指出选择她反映了“奥巴马政府对美日联盟的高度重视”。
Mr. Obama chose Ms. Kennedy’s predecessor, Mr. Roos, over Joseph S. Nye Jr., a Harvard professor who was the preferred candidate of Hillary Rodham Clinton, then Mr. Obama’s newly appointed secretary of state.
奥巴马在选择肯尼迪的前任时，没有选择希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)偏爱的人选，哈佛大学(Harvard)教授小约瑟夫·S·奈(Joseph S. Nye Jr.)，而是选择了鲁斯。克林顿当时是奥巴马新任命的国务卿。
Mr. Roos was barely known in Japan when he arrived in 2009. But he built up a following on Twitter with frequent posts about baseball, Justin Bieber and Mrs. Clinton — many of them in Japanese. He was the first envoy to attend a peace memorial in Hiroshima, and he dealt with the tsunami and subsequent crisis at the Fukushima nuclear power plant.
2009年，鲁斯抵达日本时，很少有人知道他是谁。但是他在Twitter上频繁发布关于棒球、贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)和希拉里·克林顿的讯息，其中很多都是用日语写的，因此赢得了大批关注者。鲁斯是第一位出席广岛和平纪念仪式的大使，他还参与了日本海啸及随后的福岛核电站危机的应对。
While Ms. Kennedy may not have firsthand ties to Japan, historians note that her father played a critical role as president in repairing the alliance between Japan and the United States.
虽然肯尼迪与日本并没有直接渊源，但历史学家指出，她的父亲在担任总统期间，对美日同盟关系的修复起了关键作用。
Relations had become frayed over the signing of a 1960 treaty that made permanent the American military base on Okinawa. President Kennedy sent another Harvard academic, Edwin O. Reischauer, as his ambassador to Tokyo, and Mr. Reischauer, with his Japanese wife, Haru, worked to wean the countries away from their post-World War II relationship as occupier and occupied. The president also sent his brother, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, on a fence-mending tour of Japan.
1960年签署的一项使美军驻冲绳基地永久化的条约，让两国关系变得紧张起来。肯尼迪总统任命了另一位哈佛学者埃德温·O·赖肖尔(Edwin O. Reischauer)担任驻日大使。赖肖尔携其日裔夫人松方春(Haru)前往东京，努力使两国关系脱离二战后占领国与被占领国的状态。此外，肯尼迪总统还派他的弟弟、司法部长罗伯特·F·肯尼迪(Robert F. Kennedy)去过一次日本，帮助修复两国关系。