NAIROBI, Kenya — Shaking off the morning chill, they walked down dirt pathways and past burning piles of trash. It would cost 10 shillings — about a dime — to see the speech, but they wanted to see the man.
肯尼亚内罗毕——他们冒着清晨的寒意，经过一堆堆焚烧的垃圾，沿着肮脏的道路而行。看演讲要花费10先令（约合人民币6角），但他们想看看演讲者。
Inside a shack made of pressed tin sheets, the roof held up by tree trunks, they gathered early Sunday morning to hear President Barack Hussein Obama on television.
上周日清晨，他们聚集在一个由锡板搭建的棚子里，在树干支撑的屋顶下，观看奥巴马总统做电视演讲。
During Mr. Obama’s whirlwind visit to his father’s homeland, people around Kenya often referred to him as “our son.” But what they heard Sunday was more like a lecture from a stern but loving father.
肯尼亚是奥巴马父亲的祖国，他在这里进行旋风式访问期间，肯尼亚人经常称他为“我们的儿子”，但在上周日，他们听到的更像是一个严厉但心怀关爱的父亲在演讲。
And they could not have been happier. Even if they were at times skeptical on a point in Mr. Obama’s speech, they said his message would be absorbed and, they hoped, bring change.
他们快乐极了。尽管对奥巴马演讲中的一些论点将信将疑，但他们也表示他的主张会广为接受，并希望这能带来变化
“He is saying what we need to hear,” Simon Oudo said as he watched.
“他说的话，正是我们需要听到的，”西蒙·奥多(Simon Oudo)一边看一边说。
When Mr. Obama criticized the “cancer of corruption” that infects every corner of life, Mr. Oudo, 25, nodded knowingly.
当奥巴马批评“腐败之癌”感染了生活的每个角落时，25岁的奥多心知肚明地点点头。
“I have no job,” he said. He scrapes by on the 50 shillings he earns for each car he washes. In a good week, he can take home 1,000 shillings, or $10.
“我没有工作，”他说。他靠洗车谋生，每洗一辆赚50先令。运气好的时候，他每周赚1000先令，约合60元人民币。
“There are many jobs,” Mr. Oudo said. “But many people buy those jobs. It is corruption. It is killing us.”
“有很多就业机会，”奥多说。“但是有很多人花钱买工作。这就是腐败，它正在害死我们。”
Mr. Obama’s speech was directed to Kenyans, but it was likely to resonate in any city or village on the continent, many facing the same struggles and challenges.
奥巴马这次演讲针对的是肯尼亚人，但它很可能也会在非洲大陆上的任何一个城市或村庄引起共鸣，因为很多人都面临同样的困境和挑战。
In Kibera, a rough and worn slum in Nairobi, Kenya’s capital, it was the sense of personal connection with Mr. Obama that made this moment different.
基贝拉是肯尼亚首都内罗毕一处破旧颓败的贫民窟。在这里，人们觉得与奥巴马之间有着一种亲切的情感纽带，因此这个时刻也显得尤为特别。
When the president spoke of his grandfather’s struggles working as a cook in the British military, there was a hushed silence in the shack. Most of the men there wore battered shoes, and their hands were worn from labor. They knew about struggle.
当总统说到，自己的祖父在为英国军方当厨师时经历的挣扎时，棚子里陷入了片刻沉默。这里的男子大多穿着破旧的鞋子，双手在劳动中变得粗糙。他们知道挣扎是什么意思。
“He was referred to as a boy even though he was a grown man,” Mr. Obama said of his grandfather, adding, “A young, ambitious Kenyan today should not have to do what my grandfather did, and serve a foreign master.”
“尽管他已经成年，但还是被称为‘男孩’，”奥巴马谈到他的祖父时说，“如今，肯尼亚有抱负的年轻人不应该像我祖父当年那样，服侍外国主人。”
They cheered.
他们发出欢呼声。
“You don’t need to do what my father did, and leave your home in order to get a good education and access to opportunity,” Mr. Obama said. “Because of Kenya’s progress, because of your potential, you can build your future right here, right now.”
“你们不需要像我父亲那样，为了获得良好的教育和发展机遇而背井离乡，”奥巴马说。“因为肯尼亚在进步，你们有潜力，所以现在你们在这里就可以创造自己的未来。”
They burst out in enthusiastic shouting.
他们爆发出了热烈的呼喊。
Kibera is only a short walk from new office buildings and fancy restaurants, a testament to Kenya’s growing prosperity.
从基贝拉走一小段路，就来到了新建成的办公楼和高档餐厅。它们是肯尼亚日渐繁荣的证明。
When Mr. Obama came to Kenya in 2006 as a senator, he visited this area.
2006年以参议员身份到访肯尼亚时，奥巴马就参观过该地区。
Mohamed Abdul Rahim Suleiman met him that day, and on Sunday, he wore two Obama buttons on his chest as proof.
那天，穆罕默德·阿卜杜勒·拉希姆·苏莱曼(Mohamed Abdul Rahim Suleiman)见过奥巴马。而周日当天，他在胸前别了两枚和奥巴马有关的徽章，那是上次会面的证据。
The words on one button — “Change. Courage. Hope.” — were also the words echoed in the shack, grandly known as San Siro Stadium. It is usually filled with people watching soccer. A chicken scurried across the floor as the headline on the TV declared, “Obama’s Grand Return.”
徽章上写着“改变、勇气、希望”，这几个词也在被大气地称作圣西罗体育场(San Siro Stadium)的棚子里回荡着。这里通常挤满了足球观众。电视上的摘要新闻宣布“奥巴马的隆重回归”时，一只鸡快速地从地上跑过。
To a person, the people watching the speech said they believed Mr. Obama’s return would help their country.
就个人而言，观看演讲的人表示，他们相信奥巴马的回访会帮助自己的国家。
“We all trust Obama,” said Solomon Mujivane, 49. “We are very proud of him. We know he does not see tribe. When he speaks about corruption, our leaders will listen.”
“我们都信任奥巴马，”49岁的所罗门·穆希万(Solomon Mujivane)说。“我们为他感到非常骄傲。我们知道他不会在意部落的差别。当他说到腐败时，我们的领导人会听的。”
But even among this adoring crowd, there was some cynicism. At one point, a group of men burst into laughter, shouting in Swahili, as Mr. Obama talked about corruption.
但即便是在崇拜他的这群人里，也有一些冷嘲热讽。当奥巴马谈及腐败时，一群男子一度大笑起来，用斯瓦西里语喊着什么。
“Corruption is everywhere,” Rashid Seif, 32, explained, pointing at another young man. “Just ask that man.”
“腐败无处不在，”32岁的拉希德·赛义夫(Rashid Seif)指着另一名年轻男子说。“问那个人就知道了。”
Apparently, he was taking a bit off the top of the entry fee for watching the speech.
他似乎从观看演讲的入场费中扣下了一部分。
Mr. Obama’s call for better treatment of women — unlike descriptions of his personal history and calls to end corruption — was met mostly with silence. He got a laugh when he compared a society that limits its women to a team that does not use half its players.
奥巴马呼吁改善女性的待遇时，没有像他讲个人经历和反对腐败时那样引起共鸣，观众大都报以沉默。他将限制女性的社会比作一半球员未能得到利用的球队，观众笑了起来。
“That’s stupid,” Mr. Obama said.
“那样做是愚蠢的，”奥巴马说。
But there was only one woman in the room.
但这间屋里只有一名女性。
Elizabeth Nakhungo, 36, sat quietly with a broad smile. When asked what she thought about the president’s speech, her husband answered for her.
36岁的伊丽莎白·诺亨戈(Elizabeth Nakhungo)安静地坐着，笑容满面。被问道感觉奥巴马总统的演讲怎么样时，她丈夫替她做了回答。
“She loved it,” he said.
“她很喜欢，”他说。
The crowd was largely quiet as it listened to what at times felt like a sermon. One young man leaned over to a friend as Mr. Obama discussed his own journey and whispered, “Obama is really telling the whole story of all Kenyans.”
奥巴马的演讲有时像是在布道，倾听的人群大多数时候都比较安静。当奥巴马讲述自己的人生历程时，一名年轻男子侧身向朋友低声说，“奥巴马真的是在讲述所有肯尼亚人的故事。”
Mr. Oudo, the car washer, does not know what tomorrow will bring. He expects, though, that it will be a struggle to pay for food. Life will be hard.
以洗车为生的奥多不知道明天会发生什么。但他料想，那会是一场为购买食物而开展的斗争。生活仍将艰辛。
“But today, it is a beautiful day,” he said. “We thank this great man for coming to Kenya.”
“但今天很美好，”他说。“我们感谢这个伟人来到肯尼亚。”