Fifty years after the assassination of John F. Kennedy, the nation seems to be experiencing a kind of fairy tale about itself, alternately bright and dark.
约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)遇刺50年后，美国似乎正在经历着一个关于它自己的童话，时而光明，时而黑暗。
It is inspiring, but also deflating, to see and hear again (and again) the handsome, vigorous president, the youngest ever elected to the office, as he beckons the country forth to the future, to the “New Frontier,” and its promise of conquest: putting a man on the moon, defeating sharply defined evils — totalitarianism, poverty, racial injustice.
重新（反反复复地）忆起这个英俊帅气、充满斗志的人，美国历史上最年轻的总统，是既鼓舞人心又令人沮丧的，他带领这个国家迈向未来，提出“新边疆”(New Frontier)的口号和称霸世界的承诺：登月计划，打败有着清晰界定的种种罪恶——集权主义、贫穷和种族歧视。
This, we have been reminded, was the dream Kennedy nourished, and much of it died with him, when the sharp cracks of rifle fire broke out as his motorcade rolled through the sunstruck streets of Dallas. With this horrific, irrational deed, a curse was laid upon the land, and the people fell from grace.
在我们的回忆中，这些都是肯尼迪点燃的梦想，而当他的车队驶过达拉斯那条被阳光照的明晃晃的大街，伴随着来复枪刺耳的枪响，这其中很大一部分梦想已经随着肯尼迪的生命一起逝去，这个可怕的、非理性的举动，让这片土地受到诅咒，它的人民失去上天眷顾。
But this narrative and the anniversary reverie have obscured the deeper message sent and received on Nov. 22, 1963. In fact, America had already become a divided, dangerous place, with intimations of anarchic disorder. Beneath its gleaming surfaces, a spore had been growing, a mass of violent energies, coiled and waiting to spring.
然而，1963年11月22日发出和接收的更深层次信息，却被这种叙事和每年一度的遐思所遮挡。事实上，那时的美国已经成了一个分裂而危险的地方，透露出无政府主义混乱的征兆。在它各种浮华的表面之下，一股暗流正在涌动，一种暴力能量正在集聚，它蜷缩着，伺机爆发。
“The sniper’s bullet left one wound that is not healed, a wound to our consciousness of ourselves as Americans,” the culture critic Dwight Macdonald wrote in December 1963. “Despite all the evidence in the newspapers, the daily stories of senseless brutality and casual murder, we have continued to think of ourselves as a civilized nation where law and order prevail.”
“这个狙击手的子弹留下一个至今仍未愈合的伤口，受伤的是我们作为美国人的知觉，”文化评论家德怀特·麦克唐纳(Dwight Macdonald)在1963年12月写道。“失去理智的暴行和肆无忌惮的谋杀每天都见诸报端，情况已经很清楚，但我们仍然自以为是一个法治的文明国家。”
This is not to say America wasn’t a more optimistic place than it is now.
这并不是说，美国当时不是一个比现在更乐观的地方。
“The sense, one might even say the ‘feeling,’ of being American, was quite different in 1963 from what it would become,” Robert P. George, a professor of politics and law at Princeton who is also the chairman of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, said in an interview.
普林斯顿大学政治和法律教授、美国国际宗教自由委员会(United States Commission on International Religious Freedom)主席罗伯特·P·乔治(Robert P. George)在接受采访时说，“作为美国人的意识，甚至可以说作为美国人的‘感觉’，在1963年与在那以后相当不同。”
One reason was that the nation’s most powerful institutions were widely seen as “fundamentally good and trustworthy — government, the military, religious institutions. People even trusted big corporations,” Dr. George said. This was before Vietnam, before scandal shook the foundations of the Roman Catholic Church, before the sequence of Wall Street bubbles and meltdowns.
一个原因是，美国权力最大的机构那时被普遍认为“基本上纯良且值得信任——包括政府、军方，以及宗教机构。人们甚至还信任大公司，”乔治说。当时，越战还没有发生，丑闻还没有动摇罗马天主教会的根基，华尔街还没有泛起一连串泡沫，更不用说随之而来的泡沫破裂。
The tumult of the ’60s, including the unraveling of the Johnson and Nixon presidencies, came to be depicted, in part, as a disillusioned reaction to Kennedy’s death. But actually, the seeds had begun to sprout during his administration. Kennedy himself embraced a policy of insurgency. He was fixated on ridding Cuba of its dictator, Fidel Castro. And he backed a coup in South Vietnam that resulted in the murder of its president, Ngo Dinh Diem, and his brother, Ngo Dinh Nhu — an act Kennedy painfully reflected on in a taped memorandum he dictated three weeks before he was killed.
包括约翰逊和尼克松总统任期在内的60年代的喧嚣，在某种程度上被描绘为对肯尼迪去世的一种幻灭般的反应。但事实上，这些情绪在他任内就已经开始露出萌芽。肯尼迪本人就热衷于颠覆性的政策。他执迷于赶走古巴独裁者菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)。他支持了南越的一次军事政变，那次政变导致南越总统吴廷琰(Ngo Dinh Diem)以及他的弟弟吴廷瑈(Ngo Dinh Nhu)被杀——在遇刺三周前口述的一个备忘录磁带中，肯尼迪痛苦地反思了这种做法。
And while many today mourn the loss of the consensus politics of the Cold War era, the center was already collapsing in 1963. Left-wing groups like the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and Students for a Democratic Society, both impatient with the slow pace of social change, were formed at the time of Kennedy’s presidency.
尽管今天许多人都很惋惜，冷战时期的共识政治已经不复存在，但其实中间派在1963年就已经开始瓦解。学生非暴力协调委员会(Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee)和学生争取民主社会(Students for a Democratic Society)等左翼组织都是在肯尼迪执政时组建的，他们都对社会变革的缓慢失去了耐心。
On the right, the John Birch Society was flourishing, and in 1962, 18,000 young conservatives attended a rally at Madison Square Garden at which Kennedy was jeered, and a new tribune, Barry M. Goldwater, took the stage. Soon he would vow to clean out “the swampland of collectivism.”
就右翼而言，约翰柏奇社(John Birch Society)当时正蓬勃兴起，1962年，1.8万名保守派年轻人参加了麦迪逊广场花园的集会。在集会上，肯尼迪受到大肆的嘲弄，新的领袖巴里·M·戈德华特(Barry M. Goldwater)走到台前。很快，他就发誓将清除“集体主义的沼泽”。
Had Kennedy lived, he might have found himself contending with these fresh rebellions. Instead his memory was sacralized, and his death seen as a kind of freeze-frame, the moment at which America pivoted away from its better self.
如果肯尼迪能够生还，他可能需要与这些新的反叛势力作斗争。然而恰恰相反，人们对他的记忆已经被神圣化，他的离世被看做一种定格，从那一刻起，美国与那个更好的自己渐行渐远。
But things looked much different at the time.
但当时看起来却远非如此。
The best-selling nonfiction book when he was killed was Victor Lasky’s “J.F.K: The Man and the Myth,” a dubiously researched jumble of smears and innuendo, including the stale rumor that Kennedy, a practicing Catholic, had suppressed a previous marriage to a Palm Beach socialite. The book was briefly removed from circulation by its publisher, Macmillan, after Kennedy’s death.
肯尼迪遇刺时，最畅销的非虚构作品是维克托·拉斯基(Victor Lasky)的《肯尼迪：其人其事》(J.F.K: The Man and the Myth)，这本书道听途说地叙述了肯尼迪受到的诋毁和诽谤，书中还提到了老掉牙的谣言，说作为一名虔诚的天主教徒，肯尼迪隐瞒了与棕榈滩一名社交名媛的婚姻。在肯尼迪死后，这本书曾短暂地被出版商麦克米伦(Macmillan)下架。
Kennedy hatred was deepest, perhaps, in the South, where civil rights battles had grown increasingly tense. “White violence was sort of considered the status quo,” Diane McWhorter, who grew up in Birmingham, Ala., and is the author of “Carry Me Home,” a Pulitzer Prize-winning account of the racial unrest of 1963, said recently.
也许，美国南方对肯尼迪的仇恨才是最深的，那里的民权斗争形势当时正变得越来越紧张。在阿拉巴马州的伯明翰长大的戴安娜·麦克沃特(Diane McWhorter)最近说，“白人的暴力活动当时被认为是常态。”麦克沃特著有《带我回家》(Carry Me Home)一书，这本书记述了1963年种族问题引发的动荡，并赢得了普利策奖。
“There had been so many bombings that people had accepted it,” Ms. McWhorter said. But in May, the city’s blacks struck back, attacking the police and firefighters and setting several businesses on fire. In September, only two months before Dallas, white supremacists in Birmingham planted a bomb in a black church, killing four young girls.
麦克沃特说，“爆炸事件太多了，人们已经习以为常。”但是在5月，城市的黑人实施了反击，袭击了警方和消防员，焚烧了几家公司。9月，距肯尼迪遇刺只有两个月时，伯明翰的白人至上论者在一所黑人教堂里放置了一枚炸弹，导致四名年轻的女孩丧生。
Kennedy himself was a reluctant supporter of civil rights legislation, but when at last he called for it, many Southern whites were enraged.
肯尼迪虽然支持了民权法案，但他自己并不情愿。但当他终于为民权法案进行呼吁的时候，南方的许多白人被激怒了。
“I was in my gym class at the Brooke Hill School for girls,” Ms. McWhorter recalled. “Someone came in and said the president had been shot, and people cheered.”
“我当时正在布鲁克希尔女子学校(Brooke Hill School)上体育课，”麦克沃特回忆说，“有人跑进来说总统中枪了，人们欢呼起来。”
Protest and rage advanced on other fronts, too. Joseph Heller’s “Catch-22,” published in 1961, lampooned the bureaucratization of the modern warfare state. Thomas Pynchon’s “V,” published in 1963, hinted of conspiratorial webs spun in “a howling Dark Age of ignorance and barbarity.” James Baldwin’s “The Fire Next Time,” a best seller in November 1963, explored the world of Elijah Muhammad, whose message to whites, Mr. Baldwin reported, was that “the sword they have used so long against others can now, without mercy, be used against them.”
在其他领域，抗议和愤怒也在加剧。约瑟夫·海勒(Joseph Heller)在1961年出版的《第二十二条军规》(Catch–22)讽刺了这个现代化的战争国家的官僚化。托马斯·品钦(Thomas Pynchon)在1963年出版的《V》暗示了那个“怒嚎的、充满愚昧和野蛮的黑暗时代”里的阴谋集团。詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)在1963年11月出版的《下一次将是烈火》(The Fire Next Time)探索了伊莱贾·穆罕默德(Elijah Muhammad)的世界。鲍德温在这本畅销书中写道，穆罕默德传递给白人的讯息是，“他们长期以来用来对付他人的利剑，现在会毫不留情地指向他们自己”。
We’re captivated still by the handsome young president, coming to office at the apex of American power, immortalized in an intoxicating sheen of glamour imparted by the new medium of television. And, of course, we can never know what might have been different had he lived. But one who seems to have recognized the malign forces at play, ahead of those around him, was John F. Kennedy himself. He was averse to large crowds, even though he stirred them — perhaps because he stirred them. His celebrated “cool” masked uneasiness and distrust.
我们依然迷恋着那位年轻英俊的总统。他在美国实力最强的时候上台。电视这种新媒体赋予了他一种令人陶醉的光彩和魅力，这让他得以永垂不朽。当然，我们永远无法知道，如果他还活着，会有什么不同。但当时就能比周围的人更早地认识到歹毒的势力正在活跃的人，正是约翰·F·肯尼迪自己。他厌倦喧嚣的人群，尽管他能搅动起众人的热情——也或许正是因为能搅动众人的热情，他才厌倦人群。他那声名远扬的“冷淡”掩盖了不安和怀疑。
In “A Thousand Days,” published in 1965, Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., who worked in the Kennedy administration, described a president who had “peered into the abyss and knew the potentiality of chaos.” In the summer of 1963, Mr. Schlesinger reported, Kennedy concluded an informal talk by suddenly reading a portion of Blanche of Castile’s speech from Shakespeare’s “King John,” the lines beginning “The sun’s o’ercast with blood,” and ending “They whirl asunder and dismember me.”
1965年，曾在肯尼迪政府供职的小阿瑟·M·施莱辛格(Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.)出版了《一千天》(A Thousand Days)。在他的笔下，这位总统“曾凝视地狱，知道存在堕入混乱的可能”。施莱辛格写道，1963年夏，肯尼迪在一次非正式会谈结束时，突然念了莎士比亚的《约翰王》(King John)中的片段。那是卡斯蒂耶的布朗什(Blanche of Castile)在剧中的一段话，第一句是“太阳被血光遮翳”，最后一句是“他们闹翻了脸就要把我扯成两半”。
Mr. Schlesinger had predicted a new “politics of hope” with Kennedy’s election. But Kennedy’s own hopes were more tempered. While others basked in the excitements of Camelot, Mr. Schlesinger wrote, Kennedy himself had become acutely aware of the difficulties of governing “a nation so disparate in its composition, so tense in its interior relationships, so cunningly enmeshed in underground fears and antagonisms, so entrapped by history in the ethos of violence.”
施莱辛格曾预言，肯尼迪当选会带来新的“希望的政治”。但肯尼迪自己的希望却更温和。施莱辛格写道，尽管其他人沉浸在黄金时代的兴奋中，肯尼迪自己却敏锐地意识到了治理这个国家的困难，它“构成各不相同，内部关系紧张，深陷在潜藏的恐惧和敌意中，受困于崇尚暴力的历史”。