NAIROBI, Kenya — The ferocious armed political movement known as the Shabab is on the ropes in Somalia, losing territory and influence in its home country.
肯尼亚内罗毕——凶残的武装政治运动组织青年党(Shabab)在索马里濒临溃败，他们正逐渐在自己的国家失去领地和影响力。
Yet this weekend the Shabab showed that they are as dangerous as ever as a terrorist force, keeping Kenyan forces at bay through two days at the Westgate mall in Nairobi even as the militants mounted a coordinated attack against African Union forces in Mogadishu, according to senior American counterterrorism and diplomatic officials.
然而青年党在上周末显示出，作为一个恐怖组织，其危险程度丝毫不减当年。青年党在内罗毕韦斯特盖特(Westgate)购物中心将肯尼亚部队整整牵制了两天；美国高级反恐和外交官员表示，青年党同时还在索马里摩加迪沙对非洲联盟(African Union)的部队发动了一场与之呼应的袭击。
Some officials warned that the Shabab could be signaling a wider offensive, particularly within Kenya, despite their losses in recent years at the hands of the African Union and Kenyan troops in its home country.
一些官员警告，青年党可能是在发出信号，他们将发动规模更大的暴力袭击，尤其是在肯尼亚境内，虽然近年来由于非洲联盟和肯尼亚军队对索马里的干预，青年党已经连连溃败。
“What we’re witnessing is Al Shabab taking its asymmetric attacks into Kenya at the same time it’s intensifying its pattern of attacks in Somalia,” said one senior American official who has been monitoring classified intelligence reports and diplomatic cables since the attack started Saturday.
一名美国高级官员说，“我们看到青年党在对肯尼亚发动不对称攻击，同时它还在加强对索马里的攻击力度。”从周六袭击发生后，这名官员就一直在负责监控相关机密情报报告和外交电文。
Counterterrorism officials say that the Shabab’s sophistication has only increased as it has made common cause with groups including franchises of Al Qaeda in Yemen and Northern Africa and the Boko Haram organization in Nigeria, sharing tactics, techniques, training and financing.
一些反恐官员表示，因为与基地组织(Al Qaeda)在也门和北非的分支机构，以及尼日利亚的博科圣地组织(Boko Haram)同流合污——它们共享战术、技术、训练和资金——青年党变得更加老辣。
Now, it is clear that the group is using those resources to punish Kenya on its own soil, mostly for its role within Somalia, but also, to some degree, because of growing American support for the Kenyan security forces.
如今，青年党明显是在利用这些资源在肯尼亚自己的国土上惩罚这个国家，这主要是为了报复该国在索马里所扮演的角色。此外，这在一定程度上也是因为美国正在逐渐增加对肯尼亚安全部队的支持。
In recent years, Kenya has worked closely with the Americans on military cooperation, hunting Al Qaeda and combating piracy. The C.I.A. station in Nairobi is among the largest in Africa. And the United States ambassador to Kenya, Robert F. Godec, was formerly the State Department’s deputy coordinator for counterterrorism.
近年来，肯尼亚与美国加强了军事合作，共同打击基地组织和海盗行为。中情局(CIA)驻内罗毕情报站是非洲最大的情报站之一。美国驻肯尼亚大使罗伯特·F·戈代克(Robert F. Godec)曾担任国务院反恐事务副协调人。
The Shabab means the youth in Arabic. The group was formed in the middle of last decade as the small, armed militia for Somalia’s Islamic Courts Union, which had risen to power after driving a group of C.I.A.-financed Somali warlords from Mogadishu.
“Shabab”在阿拉伯语中是“青年”的意思。该组织成立于2005年左右，当时是索马里伊斯兰教法法院联盟(Islamic Courts Union)的一个小型武装民兵组织。把由中情局资助的索马里军阀逐出摩加迪沙后，伊斯兰教法法院联盟开始掌权。
Then, the Shabab’s ranks swelled amid growing anger inside Somalia over the brutal urban tactics used by Ethiopian troops, who had invaded the country to dislodge the Islamic Courts Union from the capital. Shabab fighters waged a bloody insurgency campaign against the Ethiopians, carrying out hit and run attacks and planting roadside bombs.
随后，由于索马里人对埃塞俄比亚军队所使用的残酷城市战术日益不满，青年党的规模迅速膨胀。埃塞俄比亚出兵索马里是为了把伊斯兰教法法院联盟赶出摩加迪沙。青年党的武装人员通过打了就跑、在路边埋设炸弹等方式，对埃塞俄比亚人发动了血腥袭击。
In a few short years, the group consolidated its control over a large swath of Somali territory, but then suffered setbacks as the African Union and Kenya, among others, became more deeply involved. The Shabab withdrew from the cities in the face of superior military forces fairly quickly, often in the space of a day, regrouping in the countryside.
短短几年间，该组织就加强了对一大片索马里领土的控制，但是，随着非洲联盟和肯尼亚等势力的干预逐渐深入，青年党遇到了一系列挫折。在面对更强大的军事力量时，青年党往往会以极快的速度撤离所在城市（撤离工作通常会在一天内完成），然后再到乡村重新集结。
But they preserved their core fighting force — estimated by the United Nations Monitoring Group on Somalia and Eritrea at about 5,000 — and avoided direct confrontations. And since then it has seemed to gather momentum in terms of terrorist attacks.
不过，他们保住了自己的核心战斗部队，并对正面冲突进行规避。根据联合国索马里和厄立特里亚问题监察组(United Nations Monitoring Group on Somalia and Eritrea)的估算，青年党核心部队的规模约为5000人。而且自那以后，该组织在恐怖袭击上的势头似乎有所增强。
There have long been concerns that the Shabab were increasing their ability to strike abroad, first stoked by its bombing attack against soccer fans in Kampala, Uganda, in 2010, killing 76.
外界一直担心，青年党正加强在海外发起攻击的能力。这种担忧始于2010年，该组织当时对乌干达坎帕拉的足球迷发动了爆炸袭击，导致76人身亡。
But despite its threats to strike at American interests — and the propaganda value it has gained by showing the American ties of some of its members — most experts say the group’s focus is still on getting foreign troops out of Somalia. The attack in Uganda was explicitly for that country’s role in the African Union force operating in Somalia. And now the attack in Kenya was a blow for one of the group’s most constant military antagonists.
不过，尽管青年党威胁攻击美国利益，并且通过展示其部分成员与美国的联系获取了一定的宣传价值，多数专家认为，该组织关注的核心仍是将外国军队逐出索马里。乌干达的那次袭击直接针对的是，该国在非洲联盟军队的索马里行动中所起的作用。这次在肯尼亚的袭击则是青年党对一个老军事对手的重大打击。
“What we see is not Al Shabab turning into an international jihad organization,” said one United Nations official who closely follows the group’s operations. “This is Shabab still trying to carry out a Somali agenda, attacking countries that are contributing troops to the Somalia mission.”
密切关注该组织行动的一名联合国官员表示，“我们看到，青年党并没有演化为国际圣战组织。它仍在努力推进其索马里议题，攻击的是那些派出部队参与索马里行动的国家。”
“Shabab is both far more fractured than it has been and arguably more radicalized,” said Vanda Felbab-Brown, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and an expert in nontraditional security threats. “They are far more limited in what they can do in Somalia, and that drives spectacular attacks abroad.”
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)高级研究员、非传统安全威胁专家万达·费尔巴布-布朗(Vanda Felbab-Brown)称，“青年党不仅是分化程度比过去深得多，而且可以说也更激进了。由于在索马里的活动空间大为受限，这驱使他们在国外发动惊人的攻击行动。”
As rank-and-file members left, the result was a group that was even more radical. The military setbacks raised the stakes. “The leadership needs to demonstrate they are still alive, both abroad and to their own fighters,” Ms. Felbab-Brown said.
随着普通成员的流失，青年党的激进程度得以进一步加深。在军事领域遭受的挫败也提高了筹码。“领导层需要证明，他们依然掌控局势，不管是在国外，还是面对他们自己的战斗人员，”费尔巴布-布朗称。
A 2011 report by the Monitoring Group described the deep well of support that Shabab had inside Kenya, with various religious and cultural organizations inside the country raising both money and fighters for militant activities.
联合国监察组2011年发表的一份报告中曾有描述，青年党在肯尼亚境内获得大力支持，该国的多个宗教与文化组织为其激进活动筹措资金并招募战斗人员。
“Al Shabab supporters in Kenya have established an extensive and complex financial support system to sustain their own activities, sponsor the travel of recruits to Somalia, support the Kenyan families of Al Shabab members in the field, and provide financial contributions to the jihadist cause,” the report concluded.
该报告得出结论，“青年党在肯尼亚的支持者建立起了覆盖广泛而复杂的经济支持体系，以维持自身的运转、资助新成员前往索马里、帮助青年党战斗人员在肯尼亚的家属，并给圣战事业提供资金支持。”
The United Nations group found that while Shabab’s presence in Kenya had once been concentrated within the country’s ethnic Somali community, since 2009 Shabab had greatly expanded its influence and membership among non-Somali Kenyan nationals.
联合国监察组还发现，青年党在肯尼亚的活动一度只限于索马里族裔社区，但自2009年以来，它在非索马里族裔的肯尼亚人中的影响力与成员人数也急剧扩张。
“This is an international war and we have to join hands and work together to see it destroyed,” The Kenyan president, Uhuru Kenyatta, said in a national address on Sunday.
周日，肯尼亚总统乌胡鲁·肯雅塔(Uhuru Kenyatta)在面向全国的讲话中指出，“这是一场国际战争，我们必须携起手来共同努力，将其挫败。”