NAIROBI, Kenya — The plot was hatched weeks or months ago on Somali soil, by the Shabab’s “external operations arm,” officials say. A team of English-speaking foreign fighters was carefully selected, along with a target: Nairobi’s gleaming Westgate mall.
肯尼亚内罗毕——官员表示，青年党(Shabab)的“外部行动分支”(external operations arm)花了数周甚至数月时间在索马里境内策划这场阴谋。他们精心挑选了一队讲英语的外籍作战人员，也精心挑选了一个目标：内罗毕金碧辉煌的韦斯特盖特商场(Westgate)。
The building’s blueprints were studied, down to the ventilation ducts. The attack was rehearsed and the team dispatched, slipping undetected through Kenya’s porous borders, often patrolled by underpaid — and deeply corrupt — border guards.
他们仔细研究了这栋楼的设计图，连通风管道也没有漏掉。针对此次袭击进行演练后，这队人马出发了，他们神不知鬼不觉地从肯尼亚漏洞百出的边境线溜了进来，在那里巡逻的通常是薪资过低、异常腐败的边防哨兵。
A day or two before the attack, powerful belt-fed machine guns were secretly stashed in a shop in the mall with the help of a colluding employee, officials say. At least one militant had packed a change of clothes so he could slip out with fleeing civilians after the killings were done.
官员表示，在袭击事件发生之前的一两天，武装分子与商场的一名员工串通，把火力强大的弹带式机枪偷偷藏进了商场内的一家店铺。至少一名武装分子备有替换的衣物，以便在杀戮结束后混在四散奔逃的平民中间溜走。
That is the picture emerging from American security officials of the massacre at the Westgate mall, which killed scores of people over the weekend. After a four-day standoff, President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya contended Tuesday to have finally “ashamed and defeated our attackers,” declaring that the last militants still holed up inside the mall had been killed, though the bodies of many civilians, perhaps dozens, have yet to be recovered.
这是美国安全官员勾勒出的韦斯特盖特购物中心大屠杀的情景。周末，数十名平民在这场屠杀中丧生。经过为期4天的对峙，肯尼亚总统乌胡鲁·肯雅塔(Uhuru Kenyatta)在周二宣布，已经彻底“羞辱和击溃了袭击者”。他说，坚守在购物中心里的最后一名武装分子已被击毙，尽管仍有许多平民——可能多达数十人的尸体还没有找到。
Mr. Kenyatta said that “intelligence reports had suggested that a British woman and two or three American citizens may have been involved,” but said that he could not confirm those reports. American officials said that they had not determined the identities of the attackers and were awaiting DNA tests and footage from the mall’s security cameras, but that they did know the massacre was meticulously planned to draw “maximum exposure.”
肯雅塔称，“情报报告显示，一名英国女性和两、三名美国公民可能涉嫌参与袭击事件”，但他说自己无法确认这些报告的内容。美国官员表示，他们尚未确定袭击者的身份，正在等待DNA测试结果和商场监控摄像头拍下的画面。但美国官员说，他们知道行凶者对屠杀进行了周密的筹划，以期获得“最大程度的关注”。
“They had people in there, they had stuff inside there,” said an American security official who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly. “This was all ready to go when the shooters walked in.”
一位美国安全官员称，“他们在商场里有同伙，还在那里藏好了枪弹。枪手们走进商场之前，一切都已准备就绪。”由于未被授权公开发言，这位官员要求匿名。
Kenya is now entering an official three-day mourning period to mark one of the most unsettling episodes in its recent history. The authorities here, in a country widely perceived as an oasis of peace and prosperity in a troubled region, are struggling to answer how 10 to 15 Islamist extremists could lay siege to a shopping mall, killing more than 60 civilians with military-grade weaponry, then hold off Kenyan security forces for days.
这是肯尼亚近年来发生的最令人不安的事件之一，为了悼念遇难者，这个国家正在进行长达3天的官方哀悼。肯尼亚原本被普遍视为动荡地区里一片祥和、繁荣的绿洲，而现在，该国当局却很难向外界解释，10至15名伊斯兰派极端分子怎么就能夺取一家商场，以军用级别的武器杀死60多名平民，随后还与肯尼亚安全部队周旋数日。
On multiple occasions, the Kenyan government has said that the mall was under its control, only to have fighting burst out again. Earlier on Tuesday, the Shabab, the Somali Islamist group that has taken responsibility for the attack, bragged in a Twitter message that its fighters were “still holding their ground.”
肯尼亚政府已经在多个场合表示，韦斯特盖特商场处于政府的控制之下，然而战斗却再次爆发。周二早些时候，宣布对此次袭击事件负责的索马里伊斯兰派团体青年党在Twitter上发了条消息，夸口称其作战人员“还在坚守阵地”。
Western security officials fear that several fighters slipped out of the mall during the mayhem of the attack, dropping their guns and disguising themselves as civilians, an account echoed by some witnesses.
西方安全官员们担心，若干名武装分子在袭击事件发生后趁乱溜出了商场，他们丢掉枪械，并乔装成了平民。这种描述从一些目击者那里得到了印证。
And there could be more bodies. The Kenya Red Cross said Tuesday that more than 50 people were still missing.
此外，在商场里可能会发现更多尸体。肯尼亚红十字会周二表示，尚有超过50人下落不明。
The attack may have some unexpected connections to the recent assassination of Omar Hammami, a Shabab fighter who grew up in Alabama and became a phantom-like figure across the Somali deserts, known by his nom de guerre: Abu Mansoor Al-Amriki, “the American.” Mr. Hammami was fatally shot by another wing of the Shabab less than two weeks ago.
这次袭击事件可能与奥马尔·哈马米(Omar Hammami)最近遇袭身亡有出人意料的关联。哈马米是一名青年党武装人员，在美国阿拉巴马州长大，随后成了索马里沙漠里一个幽灵般的人物，人称“美国人”阿布·曼苏尔·阿美利奇(Abu Mansoor Al-Amriki)。不到两个星期前，哈马米被青年党内的另一派系枪杀 。
One reason for the rift was Mr. Hammami’s complaints that the Shabab had become too brutal toward fellow Muslims under the leadership of the group’s emir, Ahmed Abdi Godane. That brutality, Mr. Hammami said, was the reason the Shabab had become so unpopular in Somalia and lost so much territory recently.
青年党内部出现分歧的一个原因是，哈马米抱怨说，在青年党埃米尔艾哈迈德·阿布迪·戈丹内(Ahmed Abdi Godane)的领导下，该组织对待穆斯林同胞太残暴了。哈马米说，近年来，正是这种残暴，让青年党在索马里变得非常不受欢迎，并且失去了大片地盘。
Stig Jarle Hansen, a Norwegian researcher who has published a book on the Shabab, said this rift might explain the fact that the militants in the Nairobi mall deliberately spared the lives of many Muslims. In the past, the Shabab have killed countless Muslims in Somalia with suicide bombs and buried Muslim girls up to their necks in sand and stoned them.
挪威研究员斯蒂格·亚勒·汉森(Stig Jarle Hansen)曾经出版过一本关于青年党的书，她认为，这种分歧或许可以解释，内罗毕商场里的武装分子为什么会饶过许多穆斯林的性命。以往，青年党通过自杀式炸弹袭击在索马里杀死了不计其数的穆斯林，他们还用沙子把穆斯林女孩埋到脖颈处，再用石头砸死她们。
“Even Osama bin Laden criticized Godane for being too harsh,” Mr. Hansen said. “This attack might have been Godane’s way of saying, ‘See, I’m not so harsh — to Muslims.’ ”
“就连奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)都批评戈丹内太残忍了。”汉森说，“这次袭击事件可能是戈丹内表态的一种方式，‘看吧，我没那么残忍——对穆斯林。’”
Some Muslims were indeed killed in the mall. But many survivors of the attack said the militants questioned people at gunpoint about their religion, ruthlessly sorting out non-Muslims for execution. Aleem Manji, a Kenyan radio announcer, remembered that as he uttered an Islamic prayer to save his life, the gunman threatening to kill him spoke fluent English.
确实有一些穆斯林在商场中被杀。但袭击事件的许多幸存者都表示，武装分子曾用枪指着商场里的人，盘问其宗教信仰，并把非穆斯林挑选出来，无情地杀害。肯尼亚电台播音员阿利姆·曼吉(Aleem Manji)记得，他念了一句伊斯兰教祷告词，因而保住了性命。威胁要杀死他的枪手说一口流利的英语。
His accent was “light,” Mr. Manji recalled, saying that it definitely was not Kenyan.
他的口音“很轻”，曼吉回忆说，那肯定不是肯尼亚口音。
American officials — who said they based their reconstruction of the plot on intelligence reports, witness statements and intercepted electronic messages — say that the Shabab may have recruited English speakers from the United States and possibly other Western countries so that they would be able to operate effectively in Kenya, where English, along with Swahili, is the national language. Some survivors, including a newspaper vendor who watched one militant mercilessly shoot a toddler in the legs, said other gunmen were young and either Somali or Arab.
美国官员说他们以情报报告、证人证言和被截获的电子讯息为基础，对这场阴谋进行了复盘。他们说，青年党可能从美国或者其他西方国家招募了会说英语的人，以便在肯尼亚高效执行任务，英语和斯瓦希里语同为肯尼亚的官方语言。一名报贩目睹了一个枪手残忍地朝着一个婴儿的腿部开枪，包括这名报贩在内的一些幸存者称，其他枪手都很年轻，不是索马里人就是阿拉伯人。
Another mystery: the women. Many witnesses have been emphatic that they saw at least two female militants, armed to the teeth and dressed in fatigues. Earlier, Kenyan officials asserted that there had been no women among the shooters, but on Tuesday Mr. Kenyatta seemed to revive the possibility that one of the assailants was a British woman.
另外一个谜团与女人有关。许多目击者一直强调，他们至少见到了两名全副武装、身穿作战服的女性武装分子。肯尼亚官员早些时候称枪手中没有女性，但在周二，肯雅塔的话让人们再次开始揣测这样一种可能性：武装分子中有一名英国女性。
Several intelligence analysts in Nairobi speculated that the woman was Samantha Lewthwaite, a Muslim convert who had been married to one of the suicide bombers who struck London in 2005.
内罗毕的一些情报分析人士推测，这个女人是萨曼莎·卢思韦特(Samantha Lewthwaite)。卢思韦特早年改信伊斯兰教，嫁给了2005年伦敦爆炸案中的一名自杀式炸弹袭击者。
Kenyan authorities suspected that Ms. Lewthwaite had risen up through the ranks of extremist groups and was leading a terrorism cell on the Kenyan coast; though they nearly swooped in on her in 2011, she escaped. In Kenya, she is now known as “the white widow.”
肯尼亚当局怀疑，卢思韦特在极端主义团体中逐级高升，成了肯尼亚沿海一个恐怖主义小组的领导者；他们在2011年差一点就逮到她，但她最后还是逃走了。在肯尼亚，她被称为“白寡妇”。