AS a psychiatrist I find that friends frequently seek me out to discuss problematic events in their lives; it comes with the territory and I’m usually happy to do it. But I was surprised and shaken to hear from an old friend that her husband of nearly 25 years had long been accruing and hiding from her a huge credit card debt (in the six figures). Even after divulging his secret, the husband had lied about the amount, with the sum increasing every time it was discussed. And right from the start, he refused to document where the money was spent. He left it for his wife to ruminate on, trying to puzzle it out. The disclosure wreaked financial and emotional havoc on their family.
作为一名精神科医师，我发现朋友经常会找我出去讨论一些他们生活中比较棘手的问题，这是在所难免的，我也很高兴能帮上忙。不过我很震惊地从我一位老朋友那里得知，与她共度了25年时光的丈夫一直以来都在瞒着她不停地欠下信用卡债务（债务高达六位数）。甚至在他的秘密被曝光之后，这位丈夫还在金额上撒了谎，每次谈起来的时候数额都在一点点增加。在最开始时，他拒绝提供这些钱的去向。他把这些留给他的妻子去思考，让她自己试着去解开谜题。这件事的爆发给他们的家庭带来了经济与情感上的重大伤害。
After my initial shock at this unsuspected betrayal, I began to recall patients I had seen whose situations were not that dissimilar. They were people who had suddenly discovered that their life, as they knew it, was based on a long-term falsehood. They were people who might have stumbled across family secrets on the Internet or found old bills from a spouse’s long-hidden liaisons.
在最初被这毫无征兆的背叛所震惊之后，我开始回想那些情况与这相差无几的病人们。他们突然发现自己长久以来所知的生活其实是建立在一个长期的谎言之上。他们可能偶然在互联网上发现家庭秘闻，或者是发现配偶为长期隐秘的婚外情对象付的旧账单。
This predicament, a sudden revelation of new, pivotal information about one’s life, is the subject of many memoirs: Bliss Broyard, in “One Drop: My Father’s Hidden Life — A Story of Race and Family Secrets,” discovers shortly before her father’s death that his family of origin was black and that he had “passed” for white. Katha Pollitt, in “Learning to Drive,” writes about discovering the infidelity of her long-term partner. Geoffrey Wolff, in “The Duke of Deception,” unearths evidence that his father had lied about virtually every aspect of his past: his religion, education, career and military record.
有关某个人生活的重大全新消息突然以意外的方式被揭露出来的困境，这是很多回忆录的主题：布利斯·布鲁瓦亚尔(Bliss Broyard)在《一滴：我父亲的隐秘生活——一个关于种族与家庭秘密的故事》(One Drop: My Father’s Hidden Life — A Story of Race and Family Secrets)中写道，在父亲临死前她得知，他们家族的祖先是黑人，不过因为混血他一直“蒙混”成白人。卡塔·波利特(Katha Pollitt)在《学习驾驶》(Learning to Drive)中，写下了她如何发现长期伴侣的不忠。乔弗雷·沃尔夫(Geoffrey Wolff)在《欺诈公爵》(The Duke of Deception)中，发现证据证明他的父亲对于过去的每一个方面基本都撒了谎：他的信仰、教育、职业生涯以及军队服役记录。
But what if you’re not a writer and don’t have the option of metabolizing this kind of toxic experience through the process of writing? Most of us can’t seize control of the narrative by publishing our side of the story or get the sweet revenge of going public with the other’s misdeeds.
但是如果你并不是一个作家，你并不能选择将这种负面体验通过写作的过程新陈代谢出去的时候，你该怎么办？我们中的绝大多数无法通过出版自己这一立场的故事来掌控话语权，或者通过将他人的罪恶大白于天下而得到甜蜜的复仇快感。
Discoveries of such secrets typically bring on tumultuous crises. Ironically, however, in my clinical experience, it is often the person who lied or cheated who has the easier time. People who transgressed might feel self-loathing, regret or shame. But they have the possibility of change going forward, and their sense of their own narrative, problematic though it may be, is intact. They knew all along what they were doing and made their own decisions. They may have made bad choices, but at least those were their own and under their control. Now they can make new, better choices.
发现秘密，通常会带来严重的危机。但讽刺的是，在我的行医经历中，一般说谎或者出轨的那一方反倒在心理上会觉得比较轻松。违背道德准则的人也许会觉得自我厌憎、后悔或者羞愧。但他们拥有往前走的改变可能，他们对自己行为的感知也许会是困惑的，但却是完整的。他们清楚自己一直以来都在做什么，决定也是由自己做出的。他们也许做出了糟糕的选择，但至少这是他们自己的选择，受他们自己的掌控。现在他们可以做出全新的、更好的抉择。
And to an astonishing extent, the social blowback for such miscreants is often transient and relatively minor. They can change! Our culture, in fact, wholeheartedly supports such “new beginnings” — even celebrates them. It has a soft spot for the prodigal sons and daughters who set about repairing their ways, for tales of people starting over: reformed addicts, unfaithful spouses who rededicate themselves to family, convicted felons who find redemption in religion. Talk shows thrive on these tales. Perhaps it’s part of our powerful national belief in self-help and self-creation. It’s never too late to start anew.
令人吃惊的是，社会对这些不道德者的冲击是短暂的，也是相对比较轻微的。他们可以改变！事实上，我们的文化全心全意地支持这些所谓的“新开始”——甚至为他们欢庆。回头的浪子总是会令人心软，那些人们重新开始的故事——戒毒的瘾君子、回归家庭的出轨配偶、认罪的罪犯在信仰中找到救赎。谈话节目总是热爱这些故事。也许这是我们对自我帮助与自我塑造的全国性有力信仰的一部分。重新开始永远不会太晚。
But for the people who have been lied to, something more pervasive and disturbing occurs. They castigate themselves about why they didn’t suspect what was going on. The emotions they feel, while seemingly more benign than those of the perpetrator, may in the long run be more corrosive: humiliation, embarrassment, a sense of having been naïve or blind, alienation from those who knew the truth all along and, worst of all, bitterness.
但是对那些被蒙在鼓里的人来说，一些更无处不在也更令人不安的事情会发生。他们责问自己为什么没有早点意识到所发生的事。他们所感觉到的情绪，虽然看上去比那些犯罪者的情绪要更为良性，长期下去却是更具腐蚀性的：羞辱、尴尬，感到太过幼稚与盲目，被那些一直都知道真相的人所疏远，而其中最糟糕的，是痛苦。
Insidiously, the new information disrupts their sense of their own past, undermining the veracity of their personal history. Like a computer file corrupted by a virus, their life narrative has been invaded. Memories are now suspect: what was really going on that day? Why did the spouse suddenly buy a second phone “for work” several years ago? Did a friend know the truth even as they vacationed together? Compulsively going over past events in light of their recently acquired (and unwelcome) knowledge, such patients struggle to integrate the new version of reality. For many people, this discrediting of their experience is hard to accept. It’s as if they are constantly reviewing their past lives on a dual screen: the life they experienced on one side and the new “true” version on the other. But putting a story together about this kind of disjunctive past can be arduous.
这些新的消息隐匿地扰乱了他们对过去的感知，破坏他们个人历史的真实性。就像一个被病毒感染的电脑文件，他们的人生故事被侵入了。记忆变得可疑：那天到底发生了什么事？为什么几年前，伴侣突然买了第二个“工作专用”的手机？某个朋友是不是甚至连他们一起去度假的事情都清楚？根据他们新近获得的（以及不受欢迎的）信息来强迫性地回顾过去发生的事，这种病人挣扎着想要把新版本的现实整合在一起。对许多人来说，这种对他们过去经历的质疑很难接受。他们就像是持续地在用双屏幕回顾他们过去的日子：一边是他们经历的生活，另一边是新的“真实”版本。但是把这种分崩离析的过去拼凑成一个故事是非常艰难的。
Understandably, some feel cynical if not downright paranoid. How can they know what is real going forward? How can they integrate these new “facts” about family, origin, religion, race or fidelity? Do they have to be suspicious if they form a new relationship? As my friend said in despair, “I’m just not a snoop; it’s not in my genes.”
可以理解的是，有些人即使不会变得偏执多疑，也会愤世嫉俗。他们怎么能知道前方所发生的到底是什么？他们怎么样才能把这些关于家庭、起源、信仰、种族或者忠诚的新“事实”整合到一起？当他们要进入一段新的关系时，是不是必须要保持怀疑？就像我朋友在绝望之中所说的：“我不是侦探，我的基因里没有这些能力。”
And the social response to people who have suffered such life-transforming disclosures, well meaning as it is intended to be, is often less than supportive. Our culture may embrace the redeemed sinner, but the person victimized — not so much. Lack of control over their destiny makes people queasy. Friends often unconsciously blame the victim, asking whether the betrayed person really “knew at some level” what was going on and had just been “in denial” about it. But the betrayed are usually as savvy as the rest of us. When one woman I know asked her husband, a closet alcoholic who drank secretly late at night, how he could have hidden his addiction for so long, he replied, “It took a lot of work.”
对这些改变生活的秘密曝光的受害者，社会的反应一般是出于善意，不过却并没有那么支持。我们的文化也许是向知错的罪犯敞开怀抱，但对受害者——则没那么慷慨。对自己的命运缺少掌控的能力让人们觉得反胃。朋友经常会不自觉地责怪受害者，问他们是否其实“某种程度上知道一些”当时所发生的事却力图“否认”。但受害者知道的往往像其他每个人一样少。当我认识的一个女人问她那个私底下酗酒成瘾、每天深夜偷喝酒的丈夫，为什么他能把他的酒瘾瞒这么久，他回答：“这花了我不少功夫。”
FREQUENTLY, a year or even less after the discovery of a longstanding lie, the victims are counseled to move on, to put it all behind them and stay focused on the future. But it’s not so easy to move on when there’s no solid narrative ground to stand on. Perhaps this is why many patients conclude in their therapy that it’s not the actions or betrayal that they most resent, it’s the lies.
通常，在一个被隐瞒较久的谎言曝光之后的一年或者更短时间内，受害者会来咨询重新开始的事情，想要把这一切留在过去，着眼未来。但当脚下没有足够坚实的土地支撑你过去的故事时，想要往前看是很不容易的。也许这就是为什么很多病人在治疗之中总结说，他们最难以忍受的不是对方的行为或者背叛本身，而是谎言。
In this situation, therapy can be one path to reclaiming your past. Creating a coherent narrative of one’s life has long been seen as a central goal of psychotherapy. It provides the internal structure that helps us predict and regulate future actions and feelings. It creates a stable sense of self. But if, to quote Louis Cozolino, a psychologist who writes on the neuroscience of therapy, “memory is a form of internal enactment of whatever is being recalled,” how do we retroactively create a life story out of events that were never experienced? There is a disturbing bifurcation: memory no longer corresponds to objective fact.
在这种情况下，心理治疗可以是一个重新定义你过去的方法。创造一个连贯清晰的人生故事一直都是心理疗法的中心目标。它提供一个内在的结构，帮助我们预测与调节未来的行为与感觉。它制造一种稳定的自我感知。但借用心理学家路易斯·科佐林诺(Louis Cozolino)在关于神经系统科学的著作中写过的话，“记忆是对各种被回想起来的事件的内在演绎形式”，既然如此，我们如何根据一些从来没有经历过的体验来追溯、重制一个人生故事？这里有一个令人困扰的分歧：记忆与客观事实不再关联。
As a psychiatrist, I can tell you that it’s often a painstaking process to reconstruct a coherent personal history piece by piece — one that acknowledges the deception while reaffirming the actual life experience. Yet it’s work that needs to be done. Moving forward in life is hard or even, at times, impossible, without owning a narrative of one’s past. Isak Dinesen has been quoted as saying “all sorrows can be borne if you put them in a story or tell a story about them.” Perhaps robbing someone of his or her story is the greatest betrayal of all.
作为一名精神科医生，我可以告诉你，要一点一滴地重建一个连贯的个人经历通常是一个耗费心力的过程——一个人得知被欺骗，同时要重新确认真实的生活经历。但这也是非完成不可的工作。在生活中，如果没有对过往清晰的认识，往前走是很难的，有时甚至是不太可能的。伊萨克·迪内森(Isak Dinesen)的这句话经常被人引用：“所有的悲伤都可以被分担，如果你把它们放进一个故事，或者讲述一个关于它们的故事的话。”也许，掠夺某个人的人生故事是最严重的背叛。