RANDALL KINNARD’S legal clients had steroids injected into their backs last summer for a wide range of reasons. Of the 25, one got three shots in a two-month period when pain never totally disappeared. Another got one as a preventive measure because she was going on a trip to Europe and was worried that cobblestones would aggravate an old injury.
前年夏天，兰德尔·金纳德(Randall Kinnard)律师事务所的客户因不同原因在后背注射了激素。在25位客户中，其中一个在两个月内打了三针，但疼痛一直没有完全止住。另一位打激素是为了预防，因为她即将去欧洲旅行，生怕当地的鹅卵石路面会加重旧伤。
Now the 25 — or their survivors — have engaged Mr. Kinnard, one of Nashville’s leading lawyers, to sue the New England Compounding Center. Three have died, one is paralyzed, several more are still hospitalized and all suffer blinding headaches — victims of the meningitis that resulted from vials of steroid medicine contaminated by fungus.
现在这25位客户——或者说是其中的幸存者——找到了金纳德先生，这位纳什维尔最好的律师之一，并委托他起诉新英格兰复方药物中心(New England Compounding Center)。委托人中已有三人死亡，一人瘫痪，还有几人仍在住院，个个头痛欲裂——他们都因使用了受真菌污染的激素药物而患上了脑膜炎。
The New England Compounding Center certainly seems deserving of its current status as the prime culprit in a tragic outbreak that has killed 32 and sickened 438. The bottles of supposedly sterile steroid medication it shipped were reportedly so tainted that white fuzz could be seen floating in some vials.
这一场悲剧性的脑膜炎爆发造成美国有32人死亡，438人生病，而新英格兰复方药物中心理应是这场灾难的罪魁祸首。据称，由该公司生产的瓶装激素受到了严重污染，有些瓶子里还能看见漂浮的白色絮状物，而这些药本应是无菌的。
But, experts say, the now notorious Compounding Center has a nationwide network of unwitting enablers and accomplices: There are the doctors who overprescribe an invasive back-pain therapy that, in studies, has not proved useful for many of the patients who get it. And there are the patients, living in an increasingly medicalized society, who want a quick fix for life’s aches and pains.
但是专家们说，目前臭名昭著的复方药物中心在美国拥有众多不知情的推手和帮凶：一些医生用侵入式的疗法治疗背痛，并过量开药，但研究证明，激素注射对于很多病人并没有效果。而且由于生活在这个日益医疗化的社会，一些病人总是希望尽快解除病痛。
The use of steroid injections to treat back pain has skyrocketed in the past 15 years — out of proportion to growth in the number of patients with back pain, or the aging of the population. The frequency of steroid injections dispensed to Medicare patients rose 121 percent from 1997 to 2006. Washington State found that the use of back injections grew 12.6 percent between 2006 and 2009, at a cost to the state of $56 million. Some people received more than 10 shots a year.
过去15年来，通过注射激素来治疗背痛的患者比例一路飙升——超过了背痛患者数量的增长，或人口老龄化的比率。1997-2006年期间，医保病人使用激素注射的频率上升了121%。华盛顿州的调查显示，2006-2009年期间，背部激素注射的使用人数增长了12.6%，该州因此花费了5600万美元。有些人一年的注射量超过了10次。
The increase in treatment has not led to less pain over all, researchers say, and is a huge expense at a time of runaway health costs. “There are lots of places doing lots of injections for conditions that haven’t been shown to benefit,” says Dr. Janna Friedly, a researcher at the University of Washington, who added, “Sadly, some of the patients who got meningitis were probably in that category — they did not have conditions where steroid injections were indicated.”
研究人员表示，在这个医疗成本失控的年代，用药量的增加并没有从总体上减轻病痛，而且会带来巨大的成本。华盛顿大学(University of Washington)研究员吉安娜·弗瑞利博士(Dr. Janna Friedly)说：“很多地方都在大量使用激素注射，然而病人的症状并没有因此而得到好转。遗憾的是，一些病人可能会因激素注射而患上脑膜炎——但他们并不需要激素注射来治疗自己的病症。”
Studies are at best inconclusive about exactly which groups of back-pain patients are likely to benefit from steroid shots. Though some patients clearly get much-needed relief, health researchers are nearly unanimous that the treatment is vastly overused in the United States.
对于哪一类背痛人群最有可能受益于激素注射，目前的研究仍无法做出定论。虽然有一些病人得到了明显的缓解，然而健康研究人员几乎不约而同地认为激素注射在美国存在极端滥用的现象。
But Dr. Laxmaiah Manchikanti, head of the American Society of Interventional Pain Physicians, said the increasing number of spine injections was just part of “an exponential increase in all interventional techniques” and is a good thing, reflecting a better understanding of chronic pain and patients’ demands for improved pain relief.
但是美国介入性疼痛治疗医师协会(American Society of Interventional Pain Physicians)会长莱克斯玛雅·曼切坎提博士(Laxmaiah Manchikanti)表示，脊椎注射疗法数量的增加只是“介入技术指数性增长的”部分表象而已，而且是件好事，因为它反映了对慢性疼痛的深入理解和病人对改善疼痛缓解效果的期许。
Though doctors are still arguing, most academic researchers say there is no evidence that steroid injections are useful in easing straightforward chronic low back pain. Professional guidelines say such shots should generally not be used for back pain that is less than four to six weeks old, which studies show almost always gets better with noninvasive treatments. Although many Medicare patients get spinal injections to treat a condition called spinal stenosis, a narrowing of spaces between bones of the spine, Dr. Friedly said, shots are not used for that condition in many European countries.
虽然医生们仍在争论当中，但多数学术界研究人员表示，没有证据可以证明激素注射对缓解慢性腰痛有直接疗效。专业医疗指南建议，这种疗法一般不适用于背部疼痛史短于4至6周的患者，而且有研究表明，这些患者在接受非侵入式疗法后几乎都会有所好转。弗瑞利博士说，很多医保病人是为了治疗椎管狭窄（脊椎骨间缝隙变窄）而注射激素，而在欧洲很多国家，治疗该病时并不使用这种疗法。
Spinal injections, which can cost between $600 and $2,500, including the fees for treatment rooms, have been fostered and promoted by the rising number of pain clinics and pain specialists — mostly anesthesiologists and rehab doctors — who invest in extra training to learn procedures like spinal injections.
脊椎注射的花费为600-2500美元，这其中包括治疗室使用费。而且越来越多的疼痛诊所和疼痛治疗专家都在推崇和提倡使用脊椎注射疗法——当中大多数都是麻醉师和康复中心的医生——他们通过接受额外的培训来专门学习像脊椎注射这类的疗法。
“There used to be only a small number of people who did this, but that’s gone way up, and reimbursement has gone up, too,” says Scott Forseen, a doctor who studies the treatment of back pain at the Georgia Health Sciences University. The number of spinal injections given in any geographical area correlates better with the number of local specialists trained in the procedure rather than the amount of back pain, Dr. Friedly says. There is an old saying in medicine: “When you go to Midas, you get a muffler.”
在乔治亚健康科学大学(Georgia Health Sciences University)学习背痛疗法的医生斯科特·福森(Scott Forseen)说：“以前做这种疗法的人很少，但现在这种病人呈直线上升，而且相关保险理赔也越来越多。”弗瑞利说，相对于背痛患者的数量，某地区使用脊椎注射疗法的频率与当地接受过相关培训的医师数量的关联更大。医疗行业有这么一句老话：“怎么治病，医生说了算。”
The shots — which may include a steroid and an anesthetic — are often dispensed at for-profit pain clinics owned by the physicians holding the needle. “There’s a lot of concern about perverse financial incentive,” Dr. Friedly added.
这些可能含有激素和麻醉成分的针剂经常来自于盈利性疼痛诊所，而这些诊所则由负责脊椎注射的医师经营。弗瑞利说：“外界存在很多担忧，怕的是这种疗法受到了不当利益的驱使。”
Mr. Kinnard’s clients got their injections at the St. Thomas Outpatient Neurosurgery Clinic, a limited-liability corporation half owned by doctors, which occupied a floor of one of Nashville’s major hospitals. It gave 5,000 injections a year, or about 20 each business day, and epidural steroid injections are listed on its Web site as its “top procedure.”
金纳德先生的客户们是在圣托马斯门诊部神经外科诊所(St. Thomas Outpatient Neurosurgery Clinic)接受的注射。这家诊所是一家有限责任公司，其中一半股份由医生所有，占据了纳什维尔一家主要医院的一层楼。这家诊所一年实施的脊椎注射达5000次，也就是一个工作日20次左右。而且在其网站上，硬膜外激素注射被列为该诊所的“首要项目”。
Since guidelines for injections are being disputed among doctors’ groups, it is hard in most cases to say if a particular patient should or should not have been offered an injection, says Marc Lipton, a Michigan attorney who is representing more that 20 patients with fungal meningitis. Though he believes that steroid shots are overused, he says many of the patients he represents were treated appropriately, for example, receiving an injection for pain from a herniated disc in an attempt to stave off back surgery. He and other lawyers are, for now, targeting the Compounding Center in product liability lawsuits.
代表20多位真菌性脑膜炎患者的律师马克·利普顿(Marc Lipton)表示，医生群体之间还未就注射标准达成统一意见，因此在大多数情况下，人们很难对某个病人是否应接受脊椎注射疗法做出定论。虽然他认为激素注射存在过量使用的现象，但他说，他所代表的很多病人还是适用于这一疗法的，例如，为了避免进行腰部手术，病人通过接受注射来缓解腰椎间盘突出所带来的痛楚。他和其他的律师目前正以产品责任为由起诉复方药物中心。
But, says Dr. Forseen: “You have to use injections selectively, and selectivity has gone way down. In some places, people get injections because they’ve walked in the door.”
福森博士同时指出：“医生必须选择性地进行注射，而真正做筛选的医生已是越来越少。有些地方，人们只要过来看病，医生就给注射。”
Patients have proved eager consumers of the new medical offering, desirous of a quick cure rather than waiting the weeks or months for the normal healing process to occur.
病人成为了新式医疗手段热切的消费群体，他们更希望找到快速的解决办法，而不是花数周或数月的时间来等待身体的自然愈合。
Mr. Kinnard, the lawyer, says: “If I hurt my back in the ’70s, my doctor would say, go to the beach, get a few beers, relax, you’ll be fine. Now if you hurt your back, you go to the doctor and right away there’s an M.R.I., and they need to fix something. Maybe you should take an injection.”
律师金纳德先生说：“如果我在70年代弄伤了背部，我的医生会说，去海边吧，喝点啤酒，放松放松，你就会好的。而现在如果你的背受伤了，你去看医生，医生马上会让你做磁核共振，而且他们总愿找点病治治。也许你应该打上一针。”
And steroid shots are not a cure-all, even for the conditions for which doctors agree an attempt is worthwhile: low back pain accompanied by signs of nerve injury like tingling or weakness in a leg. One-third of such patients will get better, one-third will show some improvement and some will show no improvement at all, Dr. Forseen said.
激素注射不能包治百病，即便是医生认为可以尝试治疗的某些症状：例如带有神经损伤症状的腰疼，像发麻或腿软。福森说，有三分之一的病人会好转，三分之一会有一些效果，而有一些则根本无效。
When Oregon’s Health Evidence Review Commission earlier this year explored narrowing reimbursement for injections to certain conditions, it got an earful of public comment from groups like the International Spine Intervention Society.
2012年早些时候，俄勒冈州的健康证据审查委员会(Oregon’s Health Evidence Review Commission)曾探讨减少脊椎注射（针对某些症状）的保险赔偿金的发放。包括国际脊椎介入疗法协会(International Spine Intervention Society)在内的很多组织对此项动议颇有意见。
“Obviously they are not utilizing the literature correctly,” said Dr. Manchikanti, adding that attempts to limit the shots were motivated in part by an effort to control costs and by competition from other medical specialties.
曼切坎提博士说：“很明显，他们并没有正确地解读文献。”他还表示，试图限制注射的动机来自于成本控制以及其他医学领域的竞争。
Private insurers vary considerably in coverage for the procedure, though some will pay after two weeks of back pain.
在注射承保方面，私营险企之间存在很大的分歧，然而也有一些险企在背痛两周后就会赔付。
Back pain is, of course, a debilitating condition. And modern medicine has produced some miraculous cures. But from now on when doctors and patients are tempted to say “what’s the harm in trying an injection” to dispense with a nagging back — they will be more aware of just how big the risk can be.
当然，背部疼痛是一种让人难以忍受的疾患。现代医学也发明了一些了不起的治疗方法。但从现在开始，当医生和病人在治疗背痛顽疾时打算用“试试注射又有何妨”来搪塞的时候，他们会更多地意识到此举巨大的风险。