SEOUL, South Korea — Nearly 20 years ago, Lee Geung-ja was working the night shift at a factory in North Korea when an accident with melting plastic left her face scarred and discolored. Most of her left eyebrow and eyelid were destroyed. In her own words, she looked like “a monster.”
韩国首尔——大约20年前，李静子（音译，下同）在朝鲜一家工厂上夜班时，一个熔化塑料的事故在她脸上留下了累累伤痕和难看的颜色。她的左眼眉毛和眼睑差不多全毁了。用她自己的话说，看上去像个“怪物”。
In 2010, she defected to South Korea, where she lived like a creature of the night, working alone cleaning buildings and bathhouses in the wee hours to avoid being stared at. Her self-consciousness wasn't helped by the fact that South Korean society places a huge importance on appearance, particularly for women: Plastic surgery is a common gift for daughters after high school or for college graduates hunting for jobs.
2010年，她逃到韩国，在这里像夜间出没的动物那样，独自一人在深夜和凌晨做着清扫大楼和浴室的工作，以免被人盯看。韩国社会对外貌极为重视、尤其是女性的外貌，女儿高中或大学毕业后找工作时，整形手术是家里送给她们的一种常见礼物，这个事实一点也不能帮助她减少自卑感。
“When I walk on the street or have to meet another person, I instinctively lower my face and turn to the left not to show its left side,” Lee, 40, said in an interview. “In South Korea, where even good-looking people go under the knife, I find it harder to compete with this face.”
“当我走在街上或必须见别人时，我本能地低下头，把头转向左边，让人看不到我的左脸，”40岁的李静子在接受采访时说。“在韩国，即使长相不错的人也去整容，我很难靠这张脸与人竞争。”
Now Lee is getting help she never dreamed of: A plastic surgeon has volunteered to help her regain some of her old looks — and self-esteem.
现在，李静子得到了她做梦也没想到的帮助：一名整形外科医生答应自愿帮她恢复她的部分旧容，这也将帮她恢复一些自尊。
It is part of a program started this year by the police and volunteers from the Korean Association of Plastic Surgeons to help defectors from North Korea who are literally scarred by their past.
这是韩国警方和韩国整形外科协会的志愿者们今年启动的一个项目的一部分，这个项目将帮助朝鲜叛逃者消除过去在他们身上留下的真实的伤疤。
Since news of the free surgery program spread, dozens of defectors have signed up, including a man who cannot breathe through his nose after it was smashed in a logging camp accident. One woman who had lost a breast to cancer hoped reconstructive surgery would make her more comfortable using a public bathhouse and dating again.
自从这个免费整形手术项目的消息传出后，已有数十名脱北者报了名，其中包括一名无法用鼻子呼吸的男子，他的鼻子在伐木营的一次事故中被压碎了。还有一位因乳腺癌失去了一侧乳房的女子，希望重建手术会让她在公共浴室洗澡时有更轻松的感觉，也希望能重新与异性约会。
Many of the 28,000 defectors living in the South carry burdens that make it harder for them to resettle in a capitalist society. They are often paid less and are treated as untrained and emotionally unstable workers.
生活在韩国的2.8万名脱北者中，有许多人有沉重的身心负担，让他们难以适应资本主义社会。他们往往只能拿到较低的工资，并被视为是无技能和情绪不稳定的工人。
They are also haunted by memories of relatives who starved to death or were banished to prison camps, and by fears for those they left behind in the North. Those same fears compel many, including those interviewed for this article, to adopt pseudonyms in the South to protect their North Korean relatives.
他们难以忘却那些饿死的、或被流放劳改营的亲戚，也为留在朝鲜的家人担心受怕。这种担忧迫使很多脱北者、包括接受本文采访的这些人在韩国使用假名字，以保护他们在朝鲜的亲戚。
Kim Kyeong-suk, a superintendent at the Yongsan police station in Seoul who helps link defectors to plastic surgeons, came up with the idea for the program after hearing many people from the North say they could not find work because of their scars.
首尔龙山警察局警正金景淑帮助脱北者寻找愿意帮助他们的整形外科医生，她在听到许多脱北者说因为伤疤找不到工作后，想出了成立这个项目的主意。
“Surprisingly often, you find defectors carrying big ugly scars, like crude stitches crawling like giant centipedes on their stomach, patches of hair missing from their scalp and other signs of torture, or they wear ideological slogans tattooed on their skin,” she said.
她说，“脱北者身上有巨大的难看疤痕，这令人惊讶，很常见，比如有的人肚子上有像巨大的蜈蚣那样的粗糙缝合疤，有的人头上有大片的脱发，还有其他受酷刑折磨的印记，或者有的人身上刻着意识形态口号的纹身。”
For South Korean officials, helping defectors adjust to life here could be an experiment in managing possible societal problems if the two Koreas were to reunite. As part of those efforts, the government provides free apartments to defectors and subsidizes their education and job training.
对韩国官员来说，帮助脱北者适应韩国的生活，也许是一个解决未来社会问题的实验，如果朝鲜和韩国实现统一的话。作为这些努力的一部分，政府为脱北者提供免费的公寓，还为他们提供教育和职业培训补贴。
According to a government survey taken last year, defectors believe their economic status in the capitalist South is lower than it was in the North's supposedly classless society.
据政府去年做的一项调查，脱北者认为，他们在资本主义的韩国的经济地位，比他们在朝鲜所谓的无阶级社会中的低。
Defectors earned 66 percent of an average South Korean's wages, the survey showed. Their unemployment rate was four times the national average, and suicide was three times as common among defectors.
调查显示，脱北者的工资只有韩国平均工资的66％。他们的失业率是韩国平均水平的四倍，脱北者的自杀死亡率是韩国自杀死亡率的三倍。
“I often thought of killing myself and my 5-year-old son to end my misery,” said Kim Seon-ah, 37, who wants to erase cigarette burn marks on her head and chest that were inflicted by a Chinese man, the father of her son. She said he had bought her from human traffickers after she fled the North for China in 2003.
“我经常有杀掉5岁的儿子、然后自杀的想法，想这样结束我的痛苦，”37岁的金善阿说，她希望能把自己头上和胸部的香烟烧伤疤痕消除，那是一个中国男人在她身上留下的，那人也是她儿子的父亲。她说，自己2003年从朝鲜逃到中国后，那个男人从人贩子手中将她买下。
“I still have a phobia for men,” she said.
“我至今仍对男人有恐惧症，”她说。
Lee Geung-ja, the factory worker, said that after her accident she had no access to medicine other than to use saline solution on her wounds.
曾在工厂当工人的李静子说，事故发生后，她没法得到医治，只是用盐水处理了伤口。
She fled North Korea in 1998 at the height of a catastrophic famine, entering China as an illegal migrant. She was sent home three times, but each time she fled back to China, where she met a man and gave birth to a boy.
1998年，在朝鲜灾难性饥荒最糟糕的时候，她从朝鲜逃到中国，成为非法移民。她被遣返过三次，但每次都再次逃到中国，在中国遇到一个男人，生了一个男孩。
After finally making it to South Korea, Lee was fascinated by a reality television show that featured drastic makeovers through plastic surgery.
最后终于来到韩国后，李静子迷上了一个电视真人秀，那是一个用整形手术让人彻底改头换面的节目。
“Just watching it gave me comfort,” said Lee, who lives in Gimpo, west of Seoul.
“仅仅是看这个节目就能给我很大的安慰，”家住首尔西部的李静子说。
Recently, Lee made her first visit to Dr. Park Sang-hyeon at Semi Beauty and Plastic Surgery in Seoul. The doctor told her she will need multiple surgeries over many months to regain some of her looks. Despite the arduous path ahead, she has developed a modest dream: attending a parents' meeting at her third-grade son's school for the first time.
前不久，李静子在首尔的思美美容整形外科医院(Semi Beauty and Plastic Surgery)第一次与朴相铉大夫见了面。大夫告诉她，为了部分恢复她的容貌，她需要在未来数月里做多次手术。尽管未来的道路依然坎坷，但她已经有了一个小小的梦想：首次参加在三年级就读的儿子的学校家长会。