KILLEEN, Tex. — The commanding general of Fort Hood said on Thursday that the soldier who killed three people and wounded 16 others during a shooting the previous day might have argued with at least one other soldier shortly before the attack.
德克萨斯州基林——胡德堡基地指挥官周四表示，在前一天的枪击事件发生之前不久，那名杀害3人并导致16人受伤的肇事士兵可能与至少一名其他士兵发生过争吵。
The base commander, Lt. Gen. Mark A. Milley, said investigators also believed that the mental health of the gunman, identified as Specialist Ivan Lopez, had contributed to the rampage. Specialist Lopez had an “unstable psychiatric and psychological condition,” General Milley said at a news conference on Thursday outside Fort Hood. “There may have been a verbal altercation with another soldier or soldiers,” General Milley said. “We have strong indications of that.” The shooting, the general said, began shortly after that altercation.
基地指挥官马克·A·米莱(Mark A. Milley)中将表示，调查人员还认为，开枪者制造此次杀戮的原因是精神问题。目前已确认行凶者为专业军士伊万·洛佩斯(Ivan Lopez)。周四，米莱中将在胡德堡基地外的新闻发布会上说，洛佩斯的“精神状态和心理状态都不稳定”。“他可能与另一名或几名士兵发生过争吵，”米莱中将说。“我们有关于这一点的有力证据。”米莱中将说，枪击案开始于争吵之后不久。
Earlier on Thursday, the secretary of the Army, John M. McHugh, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that Specialist Lopez had been examined by a psychiatrist within the last month but had shown no signs that he might commit a violent act. “The plan forward was just to continue to monitor and treat him as deemed appropriate,” Mr. McHugh said.
周四早些时候，陆军部长约翰·M·麦克休(John M. McHugh)告诉参议院军事委员会(Senate Armed Services Committee)，洛佩斯上个月刚刚接受过精神检查，但并未表露出具有暴力倾向的迹象。麦克休说，“医生给他开出的方案只是继续观察他的病情，并为他提供适当的治疗。”
Mr. McHugh added that doctors had been evaluating Specialist Lopez for post-traumatic stress disorder before the shooting and that he had been prescribed Ambien, a sleep aid, and other medications to treat anxiety and depression.
麦克休还说，枪击事件发生前，医生一直在对洛佩斯进行创伤后压力障碍症评估，还给他开了安眠药安必恩(Ambien)，以及其他一些治疗焦虑和抑郁的药物。
“It’s not clear how common that is or whether this was something larger,” a senior law enforcement official said, referring to post-traumatic stress disorder. Searches of federal law enforcement databases found nothing about Specialist Lopez, the official said: “He just stayed under the radar — no criminal record, nothing.”
“目前尚不清楚这种现象有多普遍，也不清楚此事是否具有更为重大的干连，”一名高级执法官员在提到创伤后压力障碍症时称。这名官员称，有关方面搜索了联邦执法机构的数据库，并未发现关于洛佩斯的任何信息：“他完全没有引起任何人的注意——没有犯罪记录，什么都没有。”
Mr. McHugh added that the suspect had had “no involvement with extremist organizations of any kind” and that “he had a clean record.” He said the military was continuing to examine Specialist Lopez’s associations to try to determine a possible motive for the attack.
麦克休还表示，这名嫌疑人“与任何极端组织都没有关系”，而且“没有任何前科”。他说，为了确定袭击的潜在动机，军方仍在对洛佩斯的各种社会关系进行调查。
General Milley said that there were indications that Specialist Lopez had self-reported a traumatic brain injury when he returned from Iraq, but that any injuries he may have suffered had not been determined.
米莱中将表示，有迹象表明，从伊拉克回到美国时，洛佩斯曾报告自己遭受了创伤性脑损伤，但他受伤的事情并未得到确证。
Specialist Lopez was raised in a small fishing village called Guayanilla on the southern coast of Puerto Rico, about an hour and a half from San Juan, Army officials said Thursday. There, he attended the Asunción Rodríguez de Sala school, where he was active in the band. He joined the Puerto Rico National Guard in 1999.
陆军官员周四称，洛佩斯成长于波多黎各南部海岸一个叫做瓜亚尼亚的小渔村，该地距离圣胡安大约一个半小时路程。他在当地的阿孙西翁·罗德里格斯·德萨拉(Asunción Rodríguez de Sala)高中上过学，积极参与学校的乐队活动。1999年，他加入了波多黎各国民警卫队。
In 2008, he transferred from the National Guard to the United States Army, and by 2010 he was stationed with the First Armored Division at Fort Bliss in El Paso. He was a truck driver in Iraq from August to December 2011.
2008年，他从国民警卫队调入美国陆军部队；2010年，他与第一装甲师(First Armored Division)一同驻扎在位于厄尔巴索的布利斯堡基地(Fort Bliss)。2011年8月到12月，他在伊拉克当卡车司机。
Previously, he had been trained as an infantry soldier, but the military said they did not believe he had ever been in combat.
之前，他曾接受步兵士兵的相关训练，但军方称，他们认为他从未参与战斗。
Law enforcement officers in Texas who interviewed Specialist Lopez’s wife said she told them “that she was surprised and saw no clues coming in to this,” the senior law enforcement official said.
前述高级执法官员表示，德克萨斯州的执法官员询问过洛佩斯的妻子，他们称他的妻子表示“她感到非常震惊，完全没看到这件事情的苗头”。
Two of Specialist Lopez’s supervisors in the Puerto Rico guard said they were stunned to learn he was the suspect in the Fort Hood shooting. They said he had been an exemplary soldier.
洛佩斯在波多黎各警卫队时的两名上级表示，得知洛佩斯是胡德堡枪击案的嫌犯时，他们感到非常震惊。他们表示，洛佩斯以前是一名模范士兵。
“I cannot believe you are speaking about the same guy,” one supervisor, Sgt. Maj. Nelfon Bigas, said. “He was the most responsible, obedient, humble person, and one of the most skillful guys on the line.”
“我无法相信你说的是同一个人，”军士长奈丰·比加斯(Nelfon Bigas)说。“他是个非常负责、非常顺从、非常谦逊的人，也是队伍中技术最好的人之一。”
Residents of Guayanilla, many of whom knew Mr. Lopez and his family, were also stunned.
瓜亚尼亚的居民也感到十分震惊，他们中有很多人都认识洛佩斯和他的家人。
Edgardo Arlequín, the mayor, told a local newspaper, El Nuevo Día, that he and others in the community who knew the family were wondering whether the death of Specialist Lopez’s mother in November and the death of a grandparent within just a few months had magnified his mental health issues. His mother, Carmen Lopez, had worked as a nurse and died of a heart attack.
市长埃德加多·阿勒坎(Edgardo Arlequín)告诉当地的《新日报》(El Nuevo Día)，洛佩斯的母亲于11月去世，一名祖辈也在几个月内去世，阿勒坎和其他一些熟悉洛佩斯家人的该地居民都怀疑，亲人的离世可能加剧了他的精神问题。他的母亲卡门·洛佩斯(Carmen Lopez)曾是一名护士，死于心脏病发作。
“This is very difficult, especially for a family that I have always seen together,” Mr. Arlequín told the newspaper. “By now losing the mother, who was the trunk of the family, and now this.”
“这很痛苦，特别是对一个在我看来十分融洽的家庭而言，”阿勒坎告诉该报。“这个家失去了母亲，失去了支柱，现在又发生了这样的事情。”
In Washington on Thursday, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said the shooting was a reason to bring some gun control legislation to the Senate floor. But he conceded that he was no closer to passing such a bill than he was a year ago when it fell to a filibuster, even after the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre.
周四，参议院多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)在华盛顿表示，看到这起枪击案，我们更应该向参议院提交一些枪支管控法案。但他承认，与一年前相比，他没能离通过此类法案更进一步。一年前，枪支管控法案因拖延战术而流产，即便在此之前，桑迪·胡克小学(Sandy Hook Elementary School)发生了屠杀惨案。