KILLEEN, Tex. — In the hours and days after a deadly shooting at Fort Hood last week, Army officials have not shied away from talking about terrorism — to contrast it with the 2009 attack and to ease fears about the motive behind the second mass shooting on the base in nearly five years.
德克萨斯州基林市——上周胡德堡血案发生后的时间里，军方官员并没有避谈恐怖主义——将此次枪击事件与2009年的袭击形成对比，意图缓解对于凶手背后动机的恐惧。这是五年内在该基地发生的发生的第二起大规模枪击事件。
“We have not found any links to terrorism, or any international or domestic extremist groups at this time,” Chris Grey, a spokesman for the United States Army Criminal Investigation Command, told reporters.
“我们现在没有找到与恐怖主义有任何联系，或者有任何国内外极端组织的参与，”美国陆军刑事调查司令部(United States Army Criminal Investigation Command)的发言人克里斯·格雷(Chris Grey)告诉记者。
That simple word has a complex and politically charged past at Fort Hood. Army officials have never called the first Fort Hood mass shooting in November 2009 — when Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan shot dozens of soldiers in what he said was an attempt to protect Taliban leaders in Afghanistan from American troops — an act of terrorism.
恐怖主义——这一简单的词语在胡德堡有着复杂并充满政治意味的过去。军方官员从未称2009年11月发生的第一次胡德堡枪击案——尼达尔·马利克·哈桑少校(Nidal Malik Hasan)射杀了多名士兵，声称意图保护在阿富汗的塔利班领导人免受美国士兵的伤害——为恐怖主义行为。
Major Hasan was prosecuted by the Army on murder charges, not terrorism-related charges. The Army’s lead prosecutor called it “the t-word.” Throughout Major Hasan’s trial in August at Fort Hood, terrorism was never uttered in the presence of the military jury, neither by prosecutors nor by the more than 100 witnesses they called. Major Hasan was found guilty and sentenced to death.
哈桑少校因多项谋杀罪名被军方指控，而非与恐怖主义相关的罪名。军方的首席检察官将“恐怖主义”说成“那个t开头的词”。8月在胡德堡进行的哈桑少校审讯中，恐怖主义从未在军方陪审团在场时被提及，不论是在检察官或是100多名传唤的证人的话语中。哈桑少校被判有罪，并处以死刑。
The disconnect between how the Army mentioned the word terrorism in relation to one shooting and avoided it in the other underscores the still-unresolved debate over how to define the 2009 shooting and whether it should be considered an act of terror, a debate the attack last week has rekindled. When President Obama returns to Fort Hood on Wednesday for a memorial service, victims of the 2009 shooting will be listening closely.
军方会在一起枪击案中提及、却在另一起案件中回避恐怖主义这个词，这种不一致加深了如何给2009年枪击案定性这个悬而未决的争论，以及是否可将此事件定性为恐怖主义行为，而上周发生的枪击案重新引发了这一争论。周三，奥巴马总统出席在胡德堡举行的悼念仪式时，2009年枪击案的受害者们将仔细聆听他的措辞。
“This would be the perfect opportunity to acknowledge that 2009 was terrorism,” said Neal M. Sher, a lawyer representing dozens of victims of the 2009 attack and their relatives in a lawsuit accusing federal and Pentagon officials of providing them with inferior treatment. “When you juxtapose the 2009 attack by Hasan with what happened this past week, it crystallizes the fact that Hasan committed an act of terror.”
“这会是宣布2009年的枪击案为恐怖主义行为的绝佳时机，”律师尼尔·M·谢尔(Neal M. Sher)说，他代表2009年枪击案受害者及其家属，因他们所获的低级别待遇向联邦和五角大楼官员提起了诉讼。“如果你将2009年哈桑的袭击和上周发生的事情比较的话，哈桑进行的是恐怖主义行为的事实变得很明确。”
Both the Army and the White House have been reluctant to call the 2009 shooting terrorism, although it was called an act of terror in a 2011 Senate report and it has an official ID number in the Global Terrorism Database. One reason the debate has persisted has been the mixed messages that federal and Pentagon officials have put out about the nature of the attack and the significance of Major Hasan’s radical Muslim beliefs. The confusion has allowed conspiracy theories, misinformation and accusations of a cover-up to fester. A White House spokeswoman had not issued a response to a request for comment by Tuesday evening.
军方和白宫都不希望将2009年的枪击定义为恐怖主义，尽管在2011年的参议院报告中称此事件为恐怖行为，并且在全球恐怖主义数据库(Global Terrorism Database)中有官方的ID编号。争论不断的一个原因是，关于袭击的性质以及哈桑少校作为穆斯林激进分子的重要性，联邦政府和五角大楼官员释放了前后不一致的讯息。这些不明确的说法导致了阴谋论的产生，使得错误信息以及掩盖事实的指控愈发恶化。白宫的一位女发言人截至周二晚上对于置评请求没有给予回应。
Army and Pentagon officials have talked about the 2009 attack within the broader context of workplace violence, although they have never officially declared it as such. But it is this latest shooting, not the previous one, that appears rooted in workplace violence.
军方和五角大楼官员在工作场所暴力这个宽泛的语境下探讨过2009年的袭击，尽管他们从未官方声明过此说法。但看起来是由工作场所暴力引发的，并不是上一次事件，而是最近的一次枪击。
Last Wednesday, Specialist Ivan A. Lopez killed three soldiers and wounded 16 others before taking his own life, the authorities said. He was being treated and evaluated for mental health problems, but the trigger appeared to be a dispute he had shortly before the attack began — an argument with soldiers from his unit over his request for a leave.
官方称，上周三，专业军士伊万·A·洛佩斯(Ivan A. Lopez)射杀了3名士兵，导致16人受伤，而他随后自杀身亡。他之前正在接受心理健康方面的治疗和评估，但导火索是枪击发生前不久的一次争吵——他因为请假要求与他所在部队的士兵发生争吵。
On Nov. 5, 2009, Major Hasan shot and killed 12 soldiers and one civilian while wounding or shooting at 30 other soldiers and two police officers. Prosecutors said one of his motivations was to kill as many soldiers as he could to wage jihad on American military personnel. He told a military mental-health panel the shooting was justified because the soldiers he killed were “going against the Islamic Empire.” Before the attack, he sent messages and emails to Anwar al-Awlaki, a radical American-born cleric described by officials as the leader of external operations for Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
2009年11月5日，哈桑少校枪击杀害了12名士兵和1名平民，导致其他30名士兵和两名警察受伤。检察官称，他的动机之一是杀尽可能多的士兵，发动针对美国军事人员的圣战。他曾经告诉过军方精神健康的专家组，他认为枪击是正当的，因为他所杀害的士兵“都对伊斯兰帝国有害”。在枪击前，他曾给激进教士阿瓦尔·奥拉基(Anwar al-Awlaki)发过信息及电子邮件，奥拉基出生于美国，官员称他为阿拉伯半岛基地组织外围行动的领导者。
Immediately following the first Fort Hood attack, Mr. Obama avoided calling the shooting an act of terror. In a counterterrorism speech last year, he linked it with another attack that he had declared an act of terror, the Boston Marathon bombings. The president spoke of the “real threat from radicalized individuals,” including those inspired by larger notions of jihad, adding that the “pull towards extremism appears to have led to the shooting at Fort Hood and the bombing of the Boston Marathon.”
第一次胡德堡袭击之后，奥巴马立即避免了使用恐怖行为的说法。在去年的一次反恐演讲中，他联系起另一起他公开声明为恐怖袭击的案件——波士顿马拉松爆炸案。总统谈及“激进个人带来的实质上的威胁”，包括受到圣战这一广义概念影响的人群，并补充说“向极端主义的靠拢导致了胡德堡的枪击和波士顿马拉松爆炸案”