KILLEEN, Texas — Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, the Army psychiatrist who admitted to killing 13 unarmed people at Fort Hood nearly four years ago, was sentenced to death by lethal injection by a jury on Wednesday, becoming one of only a handful of men on military death row.
德克萨斯州基林——美国陆军精神病医生尼达尔·马利克·哈桑少校(Nidal Malik Hasan)曾供认，近四年前在胡德堡(Fort Hood)杀害13名手无寸铁的人。周三他被一个陪审团判处死刑，以注射方式行刑。由此他成了美国少数几个待处决的军人死刑犯。
Since the case against Major Hasan was overwhelming, his conviction was a near certainty, and the main question in the trial was whether he would receive the death penalty.
由于哈桑一案证据确凿，他会被最终定罪几乎毫无疑问，审判中主要的问题是，他会不会被判处死刑。
Prosecutors had from the start built a case for execution for an attack that a Senate report called the worst act of terrorism on American soil since Sept. 11, 2001. But Major Hasan, a Muslim, taunted the military justice system, refusing to put up a defense and suggesting in and out of court that death to him was but a means to martyrdom, leaving jurors to ponder whether to give him what he wanted.
参议院的一份报告称，这起袭击是2001年9月11日以来，美国本土发生的最严重的恐怖事件，检方从一开始就力主将其处决。然而身为穆斯林的哈桑却对军队司法体系大加奚落，拒绝为自己辩护，并且在法庭内外表示，判他死刑只会让他成为烈士，这让陪审员开始踌躇，是否要给他想要的东西。
His stance left the Army’s lead prosecutor, Col. Michael Mulligan, telling jurors during his closing argument on Wednesday morning that Major Hasan was not and never would be a martyr.
他的这一立场迫使代表美国陆军的主检察官迈克尔·马利根上校(Col. Michael Mulligan)周三早上在结案陈词中对陪审团表示，哈桑不是烈士，也永远成不了烈士。
“Do not be fooled,” he told the 13 senior officers on the panel. “He is not giving his life. We are taking his life. This is not his gift to God. This is his debt to society.”
“别被他骗了，”他对陪审团中的13名军官表示，“不是他要献出生命，是我们要拿走他的生命。这也不是他对神的奉献，而是他欠社会的债。”
The jurors took a little more than two hours to decide on the sentence. If even one of them had objected to Major Hasan’s execution, he would have been sentenced to life in prison. The same jury on Friday found Major Hasan guilty of 45 counts of murder and attempted murder.
陪审员量刑用了略多于两个小时的时间。哪怕有一名陪审员反对处决哈桑，他都可能会被判处终身监禁。同一个陪审团上周五已经决定，哈桑面临的45项谋杀和谋杀未遂指控罪名成立。
Because of the high profile and heavy toll of the Nov. 5, 2009, attack — more than 40 people were killed or wounded — Major Hasan is likely to become the first American soldier in more than half a century to be executed in the military’s death chamber at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. The execution would require presidential approval.
发生在2009年11月5日袭击事件被广为报道，造成超过40人死伤。哈桑有可能会成为半个多世纪以来，在堪萨斯州莱文沃斯堡的军方死刑室被处决的首个美国士兵。他的处决需要经过总统的批准。
Driven, he said, by a hatred of American military action in the Muslim world and a desire to protect Taliban leaders in Afghanistan, Major Hasan turned on troops wearing the same camouflage uniform as his own, using those green fatigues and his laser-sighted semiautomatic pistol to target soldiers but avoid civilians. Firing 146 rounds at men and women as they crawled on the floor or crouched behind desks and cubicles, he killed 12 soldiers and a civilian who lunged at him with a chair.
他说，自己仇恨美国对穆斯林世界发动的军事行动，这也是他的行凶动机，他希望保护阿富汗的塔利班头目，于是哈桑将枪口指向了和他一样身穿迷彩军服的士兵。他靠这样的绿色军服和配有激光瞄准镜的半自动手枪，避开平民，专门针对士兵。他对匍匐在地面上或蹲在办公桌后的人开了146枪，杀死了12名士兵和一名攥着椅子朝他冲来的平民。
Major Hasan showed no emotion as the jury forewoman, an Army colonel, read the sentence.
在陪审团代表，一位陆军上校宣读决定时，哈桑面无表情。
Other death sentences have been handed down by juries in military courts in recent years — Hasan Akbar, the Army sergeant convicted of a grenade attack on his own camp in Kuwait, received one in 2005 — but experts in military law said Major Hasan’s case was unique because of all the attention it had received.
近几年军事法庭的陪审团也做出过其他死刑判决，如2005年，陆军中士哈桑·阿克巴(Hasan Akbar)因为在科威特自己的军营中以手榴弹袭击其他士兵，被判处死刑。但军法专家表示，哈桑少校的案件因为受到了广泛关注而具有独特性。
Major Hasan was the first defendant to represent himself in a military capital-punishment case in modern times, raising a host of issues. One of them is the conflict between his right to self-representation and the requirement that death penalty defendants be given special protections to ensure a fair verdict and sentence.
哈桑是现代第一个在军事法庭上的死刑案中，自行辩护的被告人，这引发了诸多问题。其中一个问题就是自行辩护的权利，与死刑案被告人应受到特别保护，从而保证判决和量刑公正的要求存在冲突。
Some military legal experts suggested that Major Hasan’s case — in which he became a nonparticipant at his own trial and sought the death sentence — represented a fundamental breakdown of the military justice system. Others disputed that assertion.
本案中，哈桑在自己出庭受审时，并未进行辩护，而且主动求死。一些军法专家提出，哈桑案代表了军队司法体系的一项根本性缺陷。但其他人对这种论断提出了反驳。
Major Hasan was found competent to stand trial, and the judge, Col. Tara A. Osborn, who repeatedly told him it was unwise to proceed on his own, said his right to represent himself allowed him to be, as she put it, “the captain of his own ship.”
哈桑被认为符合出庭受审的条件，曾反复告诉他独自出庭不明智的法官塔拉·A·奥斯本上校(Col. Tara A. Osborn)说，他有为自己辩护的权力，用她的话说，这让他可以成为“自己这艘船的船长”。
Major Hasan admitted to the jury in his opening statement that he was the gunman. He asked few questions, made few objections to testimony and entered one exhibit into evidence — a portion of an officer evaluation report in which he received high marks. He made no closing argument.
在开案陈词中，哈桑向陪审团承认他就是枪手。他很少提问，很少对证词提出异议，呈上了一件证物——一份军官评估报告的一部分，他在报告中得到高分。他没有作结案辩论。
On Tuesday, Major Hasan had the opportunity to make an unsworn statement free from cross-examination by prosecutors as part of his sentencing defense. He said nothing, called no witnesses and presented no evidence. His case amounted to three words: “The defense rests.”
哈桑在周二本有机会作一次无宣誓陈词作为自己的量刑辩护，不需要受到起诉人的盘问。但他什么也没说，并表示没有证人，也没有提交法庭的证物。他的陈词总共只有一句话：“辩护完结。”
The jury never heard much of the evidence explaining his wish for martyrdom. In a July 2011 jailhouse statement to Al-Jazeera, Hasan began by quoting verses from Chapter 18 of the Koran, in which God, he said, will give “glad tidings to the believers who do righteous deeds, that they shall have a fair reward.” In December 2010, he told a military mental-health panel that if he died by lethal injection, “I would still be a martyr.”
至于殉道的意愿，陪审团一直没听到多少解释。2011年7月在狱中通过半岛电视台(Al-Jazeera)发表的声明中，哈桑一开始援引《古兰经》第18章中的韵文，他说真主会“预告行善的信士们，他们得受优美的报酬”。2010年12月，他对一个军队心理健康专家组说，如果他被施以注射死刑，“我仍然是一名殉道者。”
During the sentencing phase on Monday and Tuesday, 20 survivors of the attack and relatives of those Major Hasan killed took the witness stand.
在周一和周二的量刑阶段，20名枪击案幸存者以及死于哈桑枪下的遇害者的亲属出庭作证。
The court-martial had up to that point been a buttoned-down proceeding void of all but the most subtle hints of emotion. Colonel Osborn had warned spectators in the gallery not to even nod or shake their heads in approval or disapproval, and the questions prosecutors asked witnesses were limited to the bare facts of who, what and where.
在此之前，军事法庭的审理一直是在波澜不惊地进行着，顶多只是流露一些极其细微的情绪。奥斯本上校警告在法庭旁听的人，不要表现出赞同或反对，哪怕只是点头或摇头，起诉人向证人提问也仅限于何人、何事、何地等最基本的事实。
But the testimony of the relatives unleashed a flood of heartache.
但遇害人亲属的证词令悲痛如洪水决堤般倾泻出来。
Angela Rivera, the widow of Maj. Libardo E. Caraveo, 52, said that when she and their young son used to drive by the airport, he often asked when they were going to pick up Daddy. Christine Gaffaney, who had been married for 33 years to Capt. John Gaffaney, 56, said his clothes were still in the closet at home and his Harley still in the garage.
殁年52岁的里巴多·E·卡拉威奥少校(Maj. Libardo E. Caraveo)的遗孀安吉拉·里维埃拉(Angela Rivera)说，她和他们年幼的儿子经常开车经过机场，他总是会问什么时候去接爸爸。与殁年56岁的约翰·加菲尼上尉(Capt. John Gaffaney)结婚33载的克里斯汀·加菲尼(Christine Gaffaney)说家中的衣柜里依然挂着他的衣服，他的哈雷摩托还停在车库里。
Relatives spoke of suicide attempts and families that split apart after the loss of a husband, wife, son or daughter.
亲属中有人提到曾企图自杀，有的家庭在失去丈夫、妻子、儿子或女儿后分崩离析。
Staff Sgt. Patrick L. Zeigler Jr., who was shot four times, limped to the stand and told the jury that 20 percent of his brain had been removed and that he struggled with severe depression.
身中四枪的小帕特里克·L·齐格勒(Staff Sgt. Patrick L. Zeigler Jr.)跛行至证人席，对陪审团说他的大脑有20%已经被切除，他患有严重的抑郁症。
Philip Warman, the husband of Lt. Col. Juanita L. Warman, 55, testified that he had started drinking after his wife’s death, but then got help and is now sober. A prosecutor asked him what he did with the coins he received at Alcoholics Anonymous meetings representing the milestones of his sobriety.
殁年55岁的胡安妮塔·L·沃曼中校(Lt. Col. Juanita L. Warman)的丈夫菲利普·沃曼(Philip Warman)作证时称，他在妻子死后开始酗酒，但后来经人帮助已经戒除。一位起诉人问他，打算如何处理在匿名戒酒会中得到的戒酒时长纪念币。
“I would push them into the ground of my wife’s grave,” Mr. Warman said.
“我会把它埋到妻子坟前的地里，”沃曼说。