I WAS in trouble. The first few analogies were pretty straightforward — along the lines of “leopard is to spotted as zebra is to striped” — but now I was in the tall weeds of nuance. Kangaroo is to marsupial as the giant squid is to — I don’t know, maybe D) cephalopod? I looked up for a second at the back of the head of the girl in front of me. She had done this amazing thing with her hair, sort of like a French braid. I wondered if I could do that with my hair.
我遇到了麻烦。最初的几个比喻句还是非常直截了当，基本上沿着“满身斑点的是豹子，长满条纹的是斑马”的路数。但现在，这些语句似乎变成了一片茂盛的杂草，我根本无法辨别它们的细微差别。袋鼠是有袋类动物，巨乌贼是——我不知道，或许应该选D)头足类动物？我抬头看了一下前面那位女孩的后脑勺。她竟然摆弄出了一个如此惊艳的发型，有点像法式发辫，不知道我的头发能否扎出这样的效果。
I daydreamed for a while, thinking about the architecture of braids. When I remembered that I was wasting precious time deep in the heart of the SAT, I swore quietly to myself. French braids weren’t going to get me into Wesleyan. Although, in the years since I took the test in the mid-’70s, I’ve sometimes wondered if knowing how to braid hair was actually of more practical use to me as an English major than the quadratic equation. But enough of that. Back to the analogies. Loquacious is to mordant as lachrymose is to ... uh ...
我做了一会白日梦，心里琢磨着这种发辫的结构。我突然想到，这是SAT考试最紧要的关头，我正在浪费千金难买的宝贵时间，于是我暗暗发誓不能再胡思乱想了。扎一个法式发辫不会帮助我进入卫斯理学院(Wesleyan College)。然而，在我于70年代中期参加这项考试之后的这些年里，我有时会想，对于我这样一位英语专业的学生来说，学会扎辫子可能要比掌握二次方程式更具实用价值。不说这些事了。继续钻研这些类比句吧。爱说话是有腐蚀性的，就犹如爱哭鼻子是……，是什么来着？
This was the moment I saw the terrible thing I had done, the SAT equivalent of the Hindenburg disaster. I’d accidentally skipped a line on my answer sheet, early in that section of the test. Every answer I’d chosen, each of those lines of graphite-filled bubbles, was off by one. I looked at the clock. Time was running out. I could see the Wesleyan campus fading before my eyes.
就在这时，我发现我做了一件可怕的事情，简直可以说是兴登堡飞艇(Hindenburg)灾难的SAT版本。在答题纸上做这部分考题的前几道题目时，我不小心跳过了一行。我已经选择的每一个答案，每一行用石墨填满的气泡，都错了一行。我看了看钟表。时间已经不多了。美丽的卫斯理校园正在我的眼前渐渐消逝。
I began moving all my bubbles up one line, erasing the wrong answers. The eraser on my No. 2 pencil hadn’t been at full strength when I’d started, and now I was nearly down to the metal.
我开始把所有的气泡上移一行，匆忙地删除错误的答案。刚开始改动时，我的2号铅笔上的橡皮擦已经消耗了一些，现在几乎快要消磨到金属圈那里了。
Then there was a ripping sound.
随后是一阵撕裂声。
I picked up the answer sheet. Through the gaping hole in the middle of it, I could see the hair of the girl in front of me.
我拿起答卷一看，中间出现了一个大洞，透过它，我能看到前面那位女孩的头发。
That braid really was a remarkable thing.
这个法式发辫确实扎得漂亮。
I remembered this sequence, like something from a Hitchcock film, when the College Board announced this week that it was rolling out a complete do-over of the SAT. Starting in 2016, gone will be the tristful effect of arcane vocabulary words such as “tristful” and “arcane”; gone will be the penalty for guessing wrong instead of leaving the answer blank; and gone will be the short-lived mandatory essay section, a test that reportedly places a higher value on loquaciousness than logic.
当大学委员会(College Board)日前宣布将彻底革新SAT考试的时候，我依然记得这些答案的次序，那就像是一个出自希区柯克(Hitchcock)影片的场景。从2016年开始，诸如“悲伤”(tristful)和“神秘”(arcane)这类神秘的单词就再也不会让考生悲伤；那些不愿留下空白但猜错答案的考生就再也不会遭受到扣分惩罚；短命的强制作文部分也将寿终正寝，这项考试据说将更加重视考核喋喋不休的能力，而不是逻辑性。
All in all, the changes are intended to make SAT scores more accurately mirror the grades a student gets in school.
总而言之，这些变化旨在使SAT成绩更准确地反映学生的在校成绩。
The thing is, though, there already is something that accurately mirrors the grades a student gets in school. Namely: the grades a student gets in school. A better way of revising the SAT, from what I can see, would be to do away with it once and for all.
但问题在于，本来就有一个能够准确反映学生在校成绩的指标，那就是，一位学生在学校取得的成绩。在我看来，这样做还不如彻底取消SAT考试。
The SAT is a mind-numbing, stress-inducing ritual of torture. The College Board can change the test all it likes, but no single exam, given on a single day, should determine anyone’s fate. The fact that we have been using this test to perform exactly this function for generations now is a national scandal.
SAT考试不啻为一场让人头脑麻木，压力徒增的酷刑仪式。大学理事会可以根据自身喜好改变考试方式，但一项在一天内完成的考试绝不应该决定任何人的命运。而事实上，我们恰恰用这项考试确定了好几代人的终身，这简直是一桩全国性的丑闻。
The problems with the test are well known. It measures memorization, not intelligence. It favors the rich, who can afford preparatory crash courses. It freaks students out so completely that they cannot even think.
这项考试的问题众所周知。它衡量的是记忆力，而不是智力。它对那些负担得起考前辅导班的富人有利。它已经成为学生想都不敢想，让他们彻底崩溃的梦魇。
As the mother of two former SAT takers (one a sophomore in college, the other a senior in high school awaiting the result of his applications), I can also point out another problem with the test: It usually starts around 8:30 in the morning. I don’t know if the members of the College Board have ever met a 17-year-old at that hour, but I can tell you this is not the time of day I would choose to test their ability to do anything, except perhaps make orangutan sounds.
作为两名前SAT考生（一位目前上大二，另一位是高三学生，正在等待他的申请结果）的母亲，我也可以指出这项考试的另一个问题：它通常在早上八点半左右开始。我不知道大学理事会的理事们是否曾经在这个时点见过一位17岁的年轻人。但我可以告诉你，要是我的话，我绝对不会选择一天的这个时刻测试他们做任何事情的能力，发猩猩声或许可以排除在外。
I sympathize with college-admissions deans who want a simple, accurate measurement of student potential. But no such measurement exists, as I can attest from 25 years as an English professor. Students flower or diminish unexpectedly, in ways unpredictable and strange. One of the great joys of teaching is that moment when a student makes a leap and creates something new. The possibility of that leap is unlikely to be measured by a test involving bubble sheets.
我同情那些高校招生处主任，他们总是希望用一种简单的方式准确测量学生的潜力。但作为一位从教25年的英语教授，我可以证明，这种方式是不存在的。学生的天资总是以不可预知，非常奇妙的方式绽放或凋零。教学工作最大的乐趣之一，往往出现在一位学生获得巨大进步，创造新事物那一刻。一项使用气泡纸的考试根本无法衡量这一飞跃的可能性。
The only way to measure students’ potential is to look at the complex portrait of their lives: what their schools are like; how they’ve done in their courses; what they’ve chosen to study; what progress they’ve made over time; how they’ve reacted to adversity. Of course colleges try to take these nuanced portraits into account, but too often they’re overshadowed by the SAT. Our children, precious, brilliant, frustrating, confused souls that they are, are more than a set of scores.
衡量学生潜能的唯一方式是，悉心观察其生活的复杂肖像：他们的学校是什么样子；功课学得如何；选择学什么；经过一段时间获得了什么进步；应对逆境的能力如何。当然，高校也在尝试着把这些细致入微的肖像考虑在内，但它们往往被SAT成绩遮掩住了。我们的孩子，一群异常珍贵，才华横溢，但时常令人沮丧，陷入迷茫的灵魂，绝不是一组分数所能评价的。
On that long-ago test day, I scratched in the last of my bubbles and barely finished on time. I’d go on to take the test again, and in the end I got lucky — despite my somewhat gruesome scores, I squeezed off the wait list and into Wesleyan.
在那个很久以前的考试日，我划完最后一个气泡，在规定时间内勉强完成试卷。我想我还得再考一次，但我真的很幸运——尽管我的分数有些寒碜，我最终还是杀出重围，迈入了卫斯理学院。
But this is what stayed with me from that day: When at last the sour proctor gave us permission to leave, everyone leapt to their feet, everyone except me and that girl with the French braid. I noticed, as I sat there, contemplating what I thought was my newly vanished future, that the back of her head was shaking.
但时至今日，我依然清楚地记得当天那一幕：当暴躁的监考老师终于允许我们离开的时候，大家都站了起来，除了我和那位扎着法式辫子的女孩。我呆呆地坐在那里，思考着我认为我刚刚消逝的未来，就在这时，我注意到她的后脑勺正在颤抖。
When I finally got up to leave, I glanced down at her face. She was weeping.
当我终于起身离开时，我低头看了看她的脸。她正在哭泣。