CHENGDU, China — Standing under a phalanx of flashing blue lights, Masiwei gazed down at the sea of waving fans. Cheers erupted as he threw his head back and called out to the hometown crowd.
中国成都——马思唯站在大片闪烁的蓝色灯光之下，低头凝视着歌迷的海洋，他们正挥舞着手臂。他扬起头，向家乡的歌迷们呼唤，欢呼声顿时爆发出来。
“Chengduuuu!”
“成都——！”
Just minutes later, the wiry rapper — one-fourth of the four-man Chinese rap crew known as the Higher Brothers — was stomping across the stage with his shirt off, tattoos out and short dreadlocks pulled back into a high ponytail. At the other end of the stage, Dzknow, another Higher Brothers rapper, grabbed a fistful of cash and took aim, sending a flurry of fake bills raining down on the sweaty fans below.
这位身材精瘦的说唱歌手是四人组合“海尔兄弟”的成员，他留着一头短短的脏辫，被束成高高的马尾。几分钟后，他脱掉衬衫，露出身上的刺青，在舞台上大步走来走去。舞台的另一端，海尔兄弟的另一位说唱歌手Dzknow抓起一大把假钞票，瞄准了一下，朝着台下汗流浃背的歌迷们抛了过去。
It was a classic rapper move in a not-so-classic setting: a small hip-hop festival on the outskirts of the southwestern Chinese city of Chengdu.
这是说唱歌手的经典手法，但却是在一个很新鲜的场合使用——中国西南城市成都郊区的一个小型嘻哈音乐节。
Once an underground subculture, hip-hop — the music, the culture and the fashion — has stormed the Chinese mainstream in recent months. Fans are flocking to nightclubs and music festivals to see their favorite local rappers and D.J.s perform, while English terms like flow, freestyle and even diss have made their way into popular urban parlance.
近几个月来，曾经是地下亚文化的嘻哈——它的音乐、文化和时尚——席卷中国的主流世界。歌迷们聚集在夜总会和音乐节上，观看他们最喜欢的本土歌手和DJ表演。Flow（流）、freestyle（即兴），甚至是diss（侮辱）等英文术语也开始成了都市里的常用语。
Perhaps nowhere is that more apparent than here in Chengdu, a sprawling metropolis of nearly 16 million that is best known for its pandas and mouth-numbing spicy food but is quickly becoming a hotbed of hip-hop, particularly rap.
在拥有近1600万人口的成都，这种潮流体现得再明显不过，这个以大熊猫和麻辣的食物而闻名的大都市，很快成了嘻哈乐重镇，特别是说唱。
The city has produced a steady stream of prominent underground hip-hop artists, including Fat Shady, Kafe Hu, Ty and, most recently, the Higher Brothers, the current breakout stars of the Chinese hip-hop world.
这个城市涌现出一大批引人瞩目的地下嘻哈艺人，包括谢帝(Fat Shady)、胡懿(Kafe Hu)、Ty，以及最近的海尔兄弟，他们是中国嘻哈世界当前爆发出来的新星。
And, as is often the case among rappers, hubris is not in short supply here.
而且，和其他地方的说唱歌手一样，他们也有种目空一切的架势。
“Of course Chengdu rappers are much cooler than rappers from other cities,” said Masiwei, 24, in an interview backstage before the recent show.
“成都嘻哈当然比别的地方酷得多，”24岁的马思唯前不久在演出后台接受采访时说。
Less than two decades ago, few people in Chengdu had even heard of the term hip-hop, “xiha” in Chinese, let alone listened to it. In the late 1990s, when access to the internet and pirated videos became more widespread, locals began to discover the genre.
不到20年前，成都几乎没有人知道嘻哈，更不用说听到这种音乐了。到了1990年代末，互联网和盗版录像开始普及后，这里的人开始发现这种音乐。
Many were teenagers when they heard artists like Jay-Z, 50 Cent and Eminem (referred to rather affectionately among Chinese as “Em”) for the first time. Some stumbled upon the music through N.B.A. mixtapes; others through watching break-dance, or B-boy, videos.
其中许多都是青少年，他们第一次听到Jay-Z、50分(50 Cent)和痞子阿姆(Eminem)等艺人。有些人通过NBA的篮球音乐混编带接触到这种音乐；还有人通过观看霹雳舞——也就是B-boy——的录像接触到它。
Demi Zhu, one of the first amateur rappers in Chengdu, recalled hearing DMX and Run DMC in a B-boy video for the first time at the age of 17.
成都的第一位业余说唱歌手Demi Zhu回忆，他17岁时第一次在B-boy录像中听到DMX和Run DMC。
“We had no idea who they were or what they were saying, but we liked the tempo and we liked the feel,” said Mr. Zhu, now 32. “You could feel their passion.”
“我们不知道他们是谁，他们在说什么，但我们喜欢这种节奏，我们喜欢这种感觉，”如今32岁的Demi Zhu说。“你可以感受到他们的激情。”
No one can quite say why hip-hop took hold here so early, compared with other Chinese cities. Local rappers say the Chengdu dialect, with its bouncy rhythm and irregular tones, is versatile in a way that is especially well suited to rap music.
没人能说清为什么成都比其他中国城市更早接受了嘻哈。本地说唱歌手们说，成都方言有种充满活力的节奏和不规则的音调，非常灵活，特别适合说唱音乐。
“I use the dialect as a tool when I write verses,” said Masiwei of the Higher Brothers. “If I want to achieve a certain flow, I can use Chengdu dialect in one sentence, then English in the next and then standard Mandarin.”
“我是把方言当成写韵文的一个工具，”海尔兄弟的马思唯说。“如果我想实现某种flow，我可以写一句成都方言，再写一句英文，然后再来一句普通话。”
“What I want to say, what I want to express, is different,” said Kafe Hu, 30, a local rapper. “I am not black. Even though I was once very poor, I have never been in physical danger. I have never lived in a ’hood. I’ve seen people doing drugs before, but it was nothing like the U.S.”
“我想说的东西，我想表达的东西是不一样的，”当地说唱歌手，30岁的胡懿说。“我不是黑人。虽然我也曾经很穷，但我从来没有经历过人身危险。我从来没有在‘hood’（在嘻哈文化中常指非裔美国底层人士聚居的街区，可引申为贫民窟。——译注）里住过。我以前见过有人吸毒，但是和美国一点都不一样。”
Still, there is certainly one traditional hip-hop obsession that has become a favorite theme among local rappers.
不过，还是有一个传统嘻哈念念不忘的东西，成了本地说唱歌手的最爱话题。
“One theme that really resonates here is money,” said Andre Alexander, also known as Harikiri, a British music producer and D.J. based in Chengdu. In “Made in China,” the Higher Brothers’ most popular song, for example, Masiwei boasts: “My chains, my new gold watch / made in China.”
“在这里，真正引起共鸣的主题是金钱，”现居成都的英国音乐制作人兼DJ、以艺名Harikiri为人们所知的安德烈·亚历山大(Andre Alexander)说。在海尔兄弟最受欢迎的歌《Made in China》（中国制造）里，马思唯自豪地夸耀着：“我的项链和新的金手表中国制造。”
“Rappers here love to be like, ‘I was poor before, and look what I’m doing now,’” Mr. Alexander said.
“这里的说唱歌手喜欢唱‘我以前很穷，看看我现在混得多好，’”亚历山大说。
The “making it to the top” narrative has become more relevant in recent months since the huge popularity this summer of the new online show “The Rap of China” (think “American Idol” for rappers). Each episode got more than 200 million views, and some of the participants on the show are now household names.
自从大热的网络节目《中国有嘻哈》在今年夏天播出以来（它就像说唱版的《美国偶像》[American Idol]），近几个月，这种“走向巅峰”的叙事已经变得更加重要。这档节目每集收视超过两亿人次，有些参赛者现在已经成了家喻户晓的明星。
Hundreds of fans — mostly women, mostly in their 20s — turned up on a recent Sunday afternoon at a newly built art park in Chengdu to watch the Higher Brothers and others perform.
前不久的一个周日下午，几百名歌迷（大多是二十多岁的女性）出现在成都新建的一座艺术公园，观看海尔兄弟和其他人的演出。
On the lawn outside the venue, fans puffed on cigarettes while lounging on brightly colored inflatable cushions. Some meandered over to a row of tents to inquire about the dreadlock braiding services and tarot card readings on offer.
会场外的草坪上，歌迷们抽着烟，躺在色彩鲜艳的充气垫上。有些人溜达到场外搭着的一排帐篷前面，打听那里提供的编脏辫和塔罗牌算命服务。
For every recent hip-hop convert, there seemed to be at least one longtime hip-hop buff. Many spoke enthusiastically about their love of the genre, citing its authenticity and its straight-talking nature.
资深拥趸似乎和新乐迷一样多。很多人热情地说起他们对这种音乐的热爱，说它的本质就是真诚和直白。
“Hip-hop lets me express my individuality,” Yang Jinyue, 24, a local D.J., said as she sat cross-legged on the grass, sporting a black baseball cap and a skimpy black romper that revealed numerous tattoos.
“嘻哈让我表达自己的个性，”24岁的当地DJ杨瑾玥（音）说，她坐在草地上，头戴黑色棒球帽，穿着极短的黑色连身裤，露出无数文身。
That fixation with individuality was a sentiment echoed repeatedly throughout the day, among both rappers and fans.
这一天里，说唱歌手和歌迷都在反复表达这种对个性的坚持。 
“When it comes to our careers, we’ve already made the most important decision,” explained Masiwei, gesturing toward his fellow Higher Brothers crew members. “That was: Should I become a rapper or should I listen to my parents?”
“说起职业生涯，我们已经做出了最重要的决定，”马思唯指点着海尔兄弟的其他成员。“那就是：我应该成为一个说唱歌手还是应该听父母的话？”
“We’re all doing what we want to be doing now,” he added, as the other members nodded in agreement. “We are living our own lives.”
“现在我们都在做着自己想做的事情，”他补充说，其他成员点头表示同意。“我们过着属于自己的生活。”