SEOUL, South Korea — A North Korean soldier’s bold attempt to defect by crossing the heavily guarded border with South Korea galvanized attention this week.
韩国首尔——本周，那位冲过了守卫森严的朝韩边境大胆叛逃的朝鲜士兵吸引了人们的注意。
But perhaps more surprising was the disclosure by surgeons struggling to save his life of what they found while repairing his intestinal wounds: dozens of parasitic worms, some as long as 11 inches.
但更令人惊讶的，或许是努力挽救这名士兵生命的外科医生们在为他修复肠部创伤时发现了几十条寄生虫，有的长达11英尺（约合28厘米）。
“In my 20 years as a surgeon, I have only seen something like this in a medical textbook,” said Dr. Lee Cook-jong, a lead surgeon.
“当了20年外科医生，我只在教科书上见过它，”主刀外科医生李国宗(Lee Cook-jong)博士说。
The discovery opened a window on the dire conditions in North Korea, including poor hygiene and nutrition. The news shocked many people in prosperous South Korea.
这个发现成了人们观察朝鲜恶劣环境的一个窗口，可以看到他们卫生状况糟糕、营养不良。在生活富足的韩国，这个新闻使许多人感到震惊。
Surgeons raced to save the North Korean soldier, whose name and rank have not been released, who sustained serious bullet wounds racing across the border while his own troops fired on him.
外科医生争分夺秒地抢救这名朝鲜士兵。该士兵的姓名和军衔均未公布。他曾忍受着严重的枪伤冲过边境，向他开枪的是他的战友。
“We have found dozens of fully grown parasitic worms in his damaged intestines,’’ said Dr. Lee Cook-jong, a lead surgeon. “It was a serious parasitic infection.”
“我们在他的受损肠道内发现了数十条发育成熟的寄生蠕虫，”主刀外科医生李国宗博士说。“这是严重的寄生虫感染。”
During a news briefing this week, Dr. Lee showed photographs of worms as long as 10 or 11 inches.
在本周的新闻发布会上，李国宗博士展示了长达10或11英寸（约合25厘米至28厘米）的肠虫照片。
Experts in parasitic worms were not surprised, however. They said that the finding was consistent with the broad sense of conditions in the isolated, impoverished North.
但是，研究寄生虫的专家并不感到惊讶。他们表示，这种发现符合朝鲜孤立贫瘠的总体环境。
Defectors to the South have cited the existence of parasites and abysmal nutrition. Because it lacks chemical fertilizers, North Korea still relies on human excrement to fertilize its fields, helping parasites to spread, the experts said.
逃亡韩国的脱北者曾提及朝鲜存在的寄生虫和营养贫乏问题。专家表示，由于缺少化肥，朝鲜仍然依靠人类粪便施肥，这助长了寄生虫的传播。
In a 2014 study, South Korean doctors checked a sample of 17 female defectors from North Korea and found seven of them infected with parasitic worms.
在一份2014年的研究报告中，韩国医生抽样调查了17位女性脱北者，发现其中7位都感染了寄生虫。
The North Korean soldier drove a jeep into the Joint Security Area, one of the most heavily guarded portions of the Demilitarized Zone, on Monday. He then ran across the border to defect to the South while fellow North Korean troops unleashed a hail of rifle and pistol shots trying to stop him.
周一时，该朝鲜士兵驾驶一辆吉普车驶入了联合安全区(Joint Security Area)——非军事区(Demilitarized Zone)里守卫最森严的区域之一。随后，他跑过边境，逃向韩国。他的朝鲜战友用步枪和手枪不断向他射击，试图阻止他。
He collapsed about 55 yards south of the border, bleeding profusely. South Korean officers pulled him to safety, and a United States Black Hawk military helicopter rushed him to a hospital near Seoul, where he underwent a series of surgeries.
他倒在了国境以南55码（约合50米）处，血流如注。韩国军官将他拉至安全地点，一架联合国“黑鹰”军用直升机又将其紧急送至首尔附近的医院，他在那里接受了一系列手术。
His was the most dramatic defection from the North in years, making headlines in South Korea.
他的叛逃是几年来的脱北者之中最惊人的，成为了韩国的头条新闻。
But more startling news came from the doctors who were working to clean and patch up his dietary tract, which was torn by bullets.
但从大夫那里传来的消息更为惊人，他们努力清理并修复这名士兵被子弹撕裂的肠道。
The soldier’s condition was particularly noteworthy because North Korean soldiers, especially those deployed near the border with South Korea, receive priority in food rationing. Yet, in addition to the parasitic worms, doctors found kernels of corn in his stomach.
这名士兵的状况尤其值得关注，因为朝鲜士兵——尤其是驻守在朝韩边境的朝鲜士兵，在食物分配上享有优先权。然而，除了寄生虫，医生还在他的胃里发现了玉米粒。
South Korea itself was afflicted with widespread parasitic infections through the 1970s, when more than 80 percent of the population carried parasitic worms. After a 9-year-old girl died in 1963 and doctors found more than 1,000 parasitic worms in her body, the country launched a national campaign to eradicate parasites.
韩国在70年代也曾发生大面积寄生虫感染，当时，有超过80%的人口携带寄生虫。1963年，一位9岁的女孩去世，医生在她体内找到了1000多条寄生虫，随后，韩国发起了根除寄生虫的全国性运动。
Schools collected stool samples from students and distributed anti-parasitic pills. The campaign succeeded: Parasitic infections have become rare in South Korea as hygiene and economic conditions have improved.
学校采集了学生的粪便样品，发放杀虫药。运动成功了：随着卫生和经济条件提高，韩国很少再出现寄生虫感染。
More than 30,000 North Koreans have fled to South Korea since a famine killed more than a million people in the North in the 1990s. Since then, international relief agencies have reported widespread malnutrition and stunted growth among many children in the North.
自朝鲜90年代的饥荒导致一百多万人死亡后，超过3万朝鲜人逃亡韩国。此后，国际援助机构报道了朝鲜有许多儿童普遍营养不良、发育迟缓。
The wounded soldier, who is believed to be in his late 20s, is 5 feet 5 inches tall and weighs 132 pounds. In contrast, an average high school male senior in South Korea is 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighs 154 pounds.
受伤的士兵身高5英尺5英寸（约合165厘米），体重132磅（约合60公斤），年龄估计不到30岁。相比而言，韩国高中的高年级男生平均身高有5英尺8英寸（约合173厘米），体重154磅（约合70公斤）。