SEOUL, South Korea — South and North Korea exchanged machine-gun fire across their heavily armed border on Friday, several hours after a group of South Korean activists, including defectors from the Communist North, released dozens of large balloons loaded with leaflets criticizing the Pyongyang government into the North, South Korean officials said.
韩国首尔——韩国官员表示，周五，朝韩两国在重兵把守的边境附近互射机关枪。此前几个小时，包括脱北者在内的一群韩国活动人士施放了数十个装有抨击平壤政府传单的大型气球。
No damage or casualties were reported after the exchange of fire.
双方交火后，没有传出人员伤亡或财产损失的消息。
South Korean troops on the border first heard the sounds of fire from North Korea a few hours after the activists released the leaflets from Yeoncheon, a border county north of Seoul, a Defense Ministry spokesman said. They later found several bullets that had fallen in a South Korean village and near a military unit. The bullets were from an antiaircraft machine gun used by the North Korean Army, he said.
韩国国防部的一名发言人表示，活动人士当天从首尔以北的边境地区涟川散发了传单，几个小时后，边境线上的韩国军人首先听到了从朝鲜传来的开火的声音。他们随后发现，有几发子弹落到了韩国的一座村庄里，以及某军事部门附近。这名发言人称，子弹来自朝鲜陆军使用的一种高射机枪。
“Our military first broadcast a warning and then fired 40 machine-gun rounds toward a North Korean guard post,” said the spokesman, who spoke on the customary condition of anonymity. “We remain vigilant, carefully watching the situation.”
“我军方首先播放了警告，然后用机关枪向一处朝鲜哨所回射了40发子弹，”他说。“我们保持警戒状态，密切关注局势。”按照惯例，韩国方面未公布这位发言人的姓名。
The navies of the two Koreas fought bloody skirmishes on their disputed western sea border in 1999, 2002 and 2009. In 2010, North Korea launched an artillery barrage at a South Korean border island, killing two marines and two civilians and prompting South Korea to retaliate with its own artillery attack at North Korean gun positions across the western sea border. On Tuesday, patrol boats from the two sides exchanged fire there, without hitting each other.
1999年、2002年和2009年，朝韩两国海军曾在存在边界争议的西部海域爆发流血冲突。2010年，朝鲜炮击韩国的一座边境岛屿，导致两名位海军陆战队员和两名平民身亡，从而激起韩国采取报复行动，炮击了西部海上边界另一端的朝鲜火炮发射阵地。本周二，双方巡逻船在海上交火，但均未击中对方。
Still, the exchange of fire on Friday across the 155-mile-long land border was unusual enough for South Korean television stations to cut into their regular programs to report the incident as urgent news. The two armies used to exchange gunfire across the land border during the Cold War, without escalating any of the exchanges into a major skirmish, but such episodes have since become rare.
虽说如此，周五在155英里（约合250公里）长的陆上边界线的交火仍属异乎寻常之事，足以让韩国各大电视台中断常规节目来插播这则紧急新闻。冷战期间，朝韩军队曾在陆上边界线两边互射，但没有任何一次这样的交火升级为大型冲突，不过，冷战后此类事件就颇为罕见了。
North Korea has bristled at the periodic release of leaflets, making a repeated threat to direct an artillery attack at South Korean activists who launch the balloons from near the border. The leaflets usually contain Christian messages or criticize the prison gulags and the dynastic rule of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un. The leaflets also show data illustrating the growing income gap between the two Koreas.
朝鲜对周期性散发的传单大为光火，多次威胁要直接炮击在边界线附近放气球的韩国活动人士。传单中通常包含基督教内容，或是抨击劳改营，以及朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的家族统治。传单中还会列出表现朝韩两国收入差距日益拉大的数据。
The two Koreas used to use balloons to send propaganda leaflets into each other’s territory during the Cold War. After they held a historic summit meeting in 2000, they vowed to stop such campaigns. But South Korean conservative activists, mostly defectors from the North, began launching balloons on their own initiative in recent years.
冷战期间，两国均曾利用气球向对方境内散发宣传单。2000年召开了一次历史性峰会后，双方承诺停止此类宣传攻势。不过近年来，主要由脱北者组成的韩国保守派活动人士开始自行释放气球。
“They are crazy,” said Park Sang-hak, a North Korean defector who organized the launching of the leaflet balloons on Friday, referring to the North Korean troops who fired the machine guns. “It just shows how afraid they are of our leaflets.”
谈到开机关枪的朝鲜军队时，周五组织散发气球传单的脱北者朴相鹤(Park Sang-hak)说，“他们疯了。这只能表明他们对我们的传单有多么地害怕。”
Mr. Park, who has been releasing balloons since 2004, said his team released 10 balloons carrying a total of 200,000 leaflets on Friday. Another group nearby launched 23 balloons carrying 1.3 million leaflets. The balloons were equipped with special devices timed to detonate packets of leaflets, scattering them like snowflakes, once they were over North Korea. Activists sometimes also load their balloons with dollar bills or small Bibles, as well as DVDs containing South Korean dramas and other material the North considers subversive.
自2004年起，朴相鹤一直在放气球。他表示自己的团队周五放了10个气球，共20万份传单。附近的另一组人放了23个气球，共130万份传单。气球上配有特殊装置，能在飞到朝鲜上空后定时打开封传单的包装，让它们像雪片一样散开。活动人士有时还会在气球里放上美元钞票、小本《圣经》、以及刻有韩国电视剧等朝鲜认为是颠覆性材料的DVD。
One of the timers malfunctioned on Friday, showering some of the leaflets over the heads of North Korean border guards, Mr. Park said. “That probably got their goat,” he said.
朴相鹤表示，周五的时候，有一个气球上的定时器出了问题，把部分传单撒到了朝鲜边防士兵的头上。“他们大概是气坏了，”他说。
Mr. Park’s long, barrel-shaped balloons also bore on their sides huge slogans that called South Korea “the people’s paradise” and the North “the people’s living hell.” One of the slogans said: “Down with the dynastic dictatorship of Kim Jong-un!” Another balloon carried a huge portrait of Hwang Jang-yop, the defector most hated by the North. A former North Korean party secretary, Mr. Hwang fled to the South in 1997 and died four years ago Friday.
朴相鹤准备的长筒形气球还在边上写有巨型标语，宣扬韩国是“人民的天堂”，而朝鲜是“人民的人间地狱”。一条口号写道：“打倒金正恩独裁王朝！”另一个气球上带有朝鲜最痛恨的脱北者黄长烨(Hwang Jang-yop)的巨型画像。黄长烨曾是朝鲜劳动党中央委员会书记局书记，1997年叛逃至韩国，于4年前的昨天过世。
The exchanges of fire along the land and sea borders this week were expected to dampen a nascent mood for reconciliation on the divided Korean Peninsula. A delegation of top North Korean officials visited South Korea to attend the closing ceremony of the Asian Games last Saturday, and in a meeting with policy makers from Seoul, they agreed to resume high-level inter-Korean dialogue, which has not occurred since February.
本周朝韩在陆上和海上边境的交火，预计会给在朝鲜半岛上划界而治的双方新近出现的和解氛围蒙上一层阴影。上周六，朝鲜派出了由顶级官员组成的代表团前往韩国出席亚运会闭幕式。在与韩国官员举行的会议上，朝鲜代表团同意恢复2月份以来中断的双边高层对话。
North Korea has demanded that South Korea stop the activists from sending leaflets before expecting to improve ties. On Sept. 22, the North issued a statement saying that it would never tolerate the leaflets that attacked “the sacred supreme authority” of Mr. Kim and would consider them “a declaration of war.”
朝鲜已要求韩国制止活动人士散发传单，否则不要指望双方改善关系。9月22日，朝鲜发表声明称，绝不容忍亵渎金正恩“最高尊严”的传单，并将其视作“战争行为”。