Jon Stewart, who turned Comedy Central’s “The Daily Show” into a sharp-edged commentary on current events, delivering the news in layers of silliness and mockery, said on Tuesday that he would step down after more than 16 years as its anchor.
周二，斯图尔特在录制该节目时，透露了自己离开《每日秀》的计划。他与喜剧中心频道的合同将在9月到期。他说道，“在我心里，我知道是时候让别人”来拥有他曾拥有的机会了。斯图尔特告诉观众他正在敲定离开的细节，这“也许会在12月，也许会在7月”。
Mr. Stewart, whose contract with Comedy Central ends in September, disclosed his plans during a taping of the program on Tuesday. Saying that “in my heart, I know it is time for someone else” to have the opportunity he had, Mr. Stewart told his audience that he was still working out the details of his departure, which “might be December, might be July.”
“我没有具体的安排，”斯图尔特在节目末尾对着镜头说道，几度看起来几近流泪。“有很多想法。我脑子里有很多东西。我要在上学的日子里与家人一起吃顿晚饭。我从多方了解到他们很可爱。”
“I don’t have any specific plans,” Mr. Stewart said, addressing the camera at the end of his show, at times seeming close to tears. “Got a lot of ideas. I got a lot of things in my head. I’m going to have dinner on a school night with my family, who I have heard from multiple sources are lovely people.”
“明天我还会在这儿”，斯图尔特补充道，“一个哪怕是稍微有一点不那么不安分的主持人都配不上这个节目，也配不上你们。”喜剧中心频道并未详述节目日后将会怎样，只是表示《每日秀》“会在未来几年一直播出下去”。
“I’m not going anywhere tomorrow,” Mr. Stewart added, “but this show doesn’t deserve an even slightly restless host, and neither do you.” Comedy Central did not elaborate on the future of the show, except to say that it “will endure for years to come.”
1999年，现年52岁的斯图尔特成为《每日秀》主持人，他最初是一名工作勤奋的单口相声演员——如果有人不知道他是一名思维敏捷的政治评论员的话。
In becoming the nation’s satirist in chief, Mr. Stewart imbued the program with a personal sense of justice, even indignation. For a segment of the audience that had lost its faith in broadcast and print news outlets or never regarded them as sacrosanct in the first place, Mr. Stewart emerged a figure as trusted as Walter Cronkite or Edward R. Murrow.
15年后，他的讽刺敏感性把《每日秀》变成了对美国和世界各地都颇有影响的一个新闻和媒体评论平台，他还在担任该节目的执行制片人。《每日秀》——去年平均每晚有多达220万的观众——成为了对政治感到失望的人（往往为左倾人士）的一个幽默的发泄口，也成了批评者（往往为右倾人士）的眼中钉，后者将斯图尔特视为自由派媒体的精英成员。
Mr. Stewart, 52, became the host of “The Daily Show” in 1999, entering with the identity of a hard-working standup, if not necessarily an astute political commentator.
斯图尔特在提到威廉姆斯时说道，“看，我知道问题在哪儿。这里出现了娱乐信息混乱综合征。”
A decade and a half later, his satirical sensibility helped turn “The Daily Show,” where he also serves as an executive producer, into an influential platform for news and media commentary, both in the United States and around the world. The program — which averaged a respectable 2.2 million viewers a night last year — has been a humorous release valve for politically frustrated (often left-leaning) viewers and a bête noire of (often right-leaning) critics who saw him as a member of the liberal media elite.
在提到媒体对威廉姆斯的困境的广泛报道时，斯图尔特挖苦地说，“终于有人要对在伊拉克战争的问题上误导美国负责了。”
As recently as Monday night on the show, Mr. Stewart had been taking aim at the recent scandal that has engulfed the NBC news anchor Brian Williams, a frequent “Daily Show” guest who on Tuesday was suspended without pay for six months. Mr. Stewart cast him as a journalist with a propensity for personal exaggeration and commented on the failure of the news media to thoroughly question the underpinnings of the Iraq War.
对于一代电视观众来说，斯图尔特和他关于总统和国会选举的报道“优柔寡断”(Indecision)成为了他们观察美国政治进程的讽刺性棱镜。
Speaking of Mr. Williams, Mr. Stewart said, “See, I see the problem. We got us a case here of infotainment confusion syndrome.”
斯图尔特认为没必要做一个中立的主持人，并有时在对方主场上与其对峙。
Noting the widespread media coverage of Mr. Williams’s woes, Mr. Stewart wryly added, “Finally someone is being held to account for misleading America about the Iraq War.”
谈到为何他会从事《玫瑰香水》这个项目时，斯图尔特告诉《纽约时报》，他想赞扬像巴阿瑞一样的记者的欲望和他在《每日秀》上取笑他人的冲动别无二致。