SEOUL, South Korea — Like Japan, resource-poor South Korea has long relied on nuclear power to provide the cheap electricity that helped build its miracle economy. For years, it met one-third of its electricity needs with nuclear power, similar to Japan’s level of dependence before the 2011 disaster at its Fukushima plant.
韩国首尔——资源匮乏的韩国和日本一样，长期依靠核电提供廉价的电力。在核电的帮助下，这两个国家构筑起了经济奇迹。多年来，核电满足了韩国三分之一的电力需求，这与日本在2011年福岛核灾难发生之前的水平相似。
Now, a snowballing scandal in South Korea about bribery and faked safety tests for critical plant equipment has highlighted yet another similarity: experts say both countries’ nuclear programs suffer from a culture of collusion that has undermined their safety. Weeks of revelations about the close ties between South Korea’s nuclear power companies, their suppliers and testing companies have led the prime minister to liken the industry to a mafia.
现在，一桩丑闻在韩国愈演愈烈，其中涉及贿赂，以及在测试核电站的关键设备时弄虚作假。这桩丑闻突显了韩国和日本之间的另一个相似之处：专家表示，两国的核计划都因一种串通一气、弄虚作假的文化而遭到破坏，这种文化破坏了核计划的安全性。连续数周披露出的情节显示了韩国核电公司、供应商和测试公司之间的密切关系，这一丑闻致使韩国总理把该行业比作黑手党。
The scandal started after an anonymous tip in April prompted an official investigation. Prosecutors have indicted some officials at a testing company on charges of faking safety tests on parts for the plants. Some officials at the state-financed company that designs nuclear power plants were also indicted on charges of taking bribes from testing company officials in return for accepting those substandard parts.
此次丑闻始于今年4月的一次匿名举报，接到举报后官方展开了调查。检方已经起诉一家测试公司的部分管理人员，罪名是在测试核电厂零部件时弄虚作假。检方还对一家设计核电厂的国有公司的管理人员提起了指控，罪名是收受测试公司管理层的贿赂，作为条件他们要接受不达标的零部件。
Worse yet, investigators discovered that the questionable components are installed in 14 of South Korea’s 23 nuclear power plants. The country has already shuttered three of those reactors temporarily because the questionable parts used there were important, and more closings could follow as investigators wade through more than 120,000 test certificates filed over the past decade to see if more may have been falsified.
更糟的是，调查人员发现，韩国23座核电厂中，有14座安装了质量有问题的部件。韩国已经临时关闭了其中的三个反应堆，因为这些核电厂中使用的问题部件相当重要。随着调查人员为了查实是否有更多测试结果是伪造的，开始艰难地审核过去十年里提交的12万份测试证明，可能会有更多的反应堆被关闭。
In a further indication of the possible breadth of the problems, prosecutors recently raided the offices of 30 more suppliers suspected of also providing parts with faked quality certificates and said they would investigate other testing companies.
还有一点进一步表明了这些问题的覆盖范围可能有多大，那就是检方近日突击搜查了另外30家供应商的办公室，这些供应商也涉嫌提供附有伪造证书的零部件，检方还说，他们将调查其他测试公司。
“What has been revealed so far may be the tip of an iceberg,” said Kune Y. Suh, a professor of nuclear engineering at Seoul National University.
首尔大学(Seoul National University)核工程学教授徐钧烈(Kune Y. Suh)说，“到目前为止，揭露出来的情况可能只是冰山一角。”
With each new revelation, South Koreans — who, like the Japanese, had grown to believe their leaders’ soothing claims about nuclear safety — have become more jittery. Safety is the biggest concern, but the scandals have also caused economic worries. At a time of slowing growth, the government had loudly promoted its plans to become a major builder of nuclear power plants abroad.
随着新丑闻一次次揭露出来，韩国人已经变得更加不安，在此之前他们和日本人一样，慢慢相信了国家领导人对核安全的安慰之词。安全是最大的担忧，可是丑闻也引发了经济忧虑。在经济增长放缓的时刻，政府在高调地推进自己的计划，那就是成为国外核电站的主要建设者。
The scandal, Professor Suh said, “makes it difficult to continue claiming to build reliable nuclear power plants cheaply.”
​​徐钧烈教授说，丑闻“使政府很难继续宣称，可以廉价地建设可靠的核电厂”。
South Koreans say they are already suffering for the industry’s sins. The closing of the three reactors, in addition to another three offline for scheduled maintenance, has led the country’s leaders to order a nationwide energy-saving campaign in the middle of a particularly muggy summer. At university campuses, students have deserted the libraries for cooler Internet cafes, and major corporations have turned down air-conditioning.
韩国人说，他们已经开始因为这个行业的罪恶而吃苦头了。三座反应堆的关闭，再加上另外三座反应堆因定期维护而停产，已迫使韩国领导人在闷热的酷暑中，下令开展全国性的节能运动。在大学校园里，学生们纷纷逃离图书馆，奔向更加凉爽的网吧，大型企业也都把空调的风力调小了。
President Park Geun-hye has kept off her own air-conditioning even when she hosted foreign guests, including Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook. And some entrepreneurs have capitalized on the troubles, selling “cool scarves” made of a special fabric that, after being dipped in water, keeps wearers cool for hours. But the modeling and creativity have not stopped the grousing, or alleviated anger at the industry.
朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)总统关闭了她在总统官邸的空调，即使在她接待外国客人时也不例外，包括Facebook的首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)。一些商家也把这些困难当成了赚钱的机会，他们销售用特殊面料制成的“冰凉丝巾”，在浸水之后，这种围巾能让佩戴者保持数小时的凉爽。不过，领导人的以身作则和商家的创意都未能制止来自民众的牢骚声，也没缓解众人对核电行业的愤怒。
“This is not a simple negligence or mistake; this is a deliberate fabrication by those who were supposed to safeguard the reliability of parts,” said Kim Yong-soo, a professor of nuclear engineering at Hanyang University in Seoul. “It raises serious questions about the immune system of our nuclear power industry.”
首尔汉阳大学(Hanyang University )核工程学教授金勇修（Kim Yong-soo，音译）说，“这不是一个简单的疏忽或错误；这是故意的造假，这些造假者本应确保核电部件的可靠性。这对我们的核电产业的免疫系统提出了严重的质疑。”
Although much remains unclear with the investigations under way, experts say they know enough to pinpoint the underlying cause of the scandal: an industry that is even more highly centralized than Japan’s, with poor oversight on the relations among the major players.
尽管当前开展的调查有很多情况尚不清楚，但专家表示他们了解的足够多，可以明确指出丑闻的深层原因：这个产业甚至比日本的更加高度集中，对于主要参与者之间的关系也监管不力。
While Japan has a small number of utilities that provide nuclear power, South Korea has just one: the state-run Korea Electric Power Corporation, or Kepco. One of its subsidiaries, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, runs all the plants. Another, Kepco Engineering & Construction, designs them and is tasked with inspecting parts from suppliers and vetting the safety certificates they include from testing companies.
在日本，少数几家公用事业公司负责供应核电，但韩国却仅有一家：国有企业韩国电力公司(Korea Electric Power Corporation)，简称韩电(Kepco)。该公司的一家子公司，韩国水力原子能公司（Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power，简称韩水原），运营着所有电厂，这些电厂由另一家子公司，韩国电力技术公司(Kepco Engineering & Construction)设计。后者还负责检查供应商提供的零部件，审核供应商提交的由测试公司出具的安全证书。
Over the years, senior retirees from the two subsidiaries have found jobs with parts suppliers and testing companies or invested in them, according to industry data submitted to the National Assembly.
向韩国国会提交的行业数据显示，多年以来，这两家子公司的退休高层要么在零部件供应商和测试企业中供职，要么在其中投资。
In a culture where honoring personal ties is often considered more important than following regulations, the porous borders among the members of the supply chain resulted in what government officials and industry experts call an “entrenched chain of corruption.” Important school and hometown connections among the groups further cemented the collusive links, they said. And then there is the lure of bribery, which has often lubricated relationships between South Korean parts suppliers and their buyers in various industries.
在一个尊重个人关系经常被认为比遵守规章更重要的文化里，供应链参与者之间的界限并非泾渭分明，这就产生了政府官员和产业专家所说的“根深蒂固的腐败链”。他们表示，这些团体之间重要的校友或同乡关系进一步巩固了相互勾结的联系。除此之外，还有贿赂的诱惑，在韩国，许多行业的供应商和买家都会用贿赂来疏通关系。
“In the past 30 years, our nuclear energy industry has become an increasingly closed community that emphasized its specialty in dealing with nuclear materials and yet allowed little oversight and intervention,” the government’s Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy said in a recent report to lawmakers. “It spawned a litany of corruption, an opaque system and a business practice replete with complacency.”
“在过去30年里，我国原子能工业变得越来越像是一个封闭的群体，强调其处理核材料的专业性，所允许的监管和干预极少，”韩国政府的产业通商资源部(Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy)在最近向议员做的一份报告中表示。“这滋生了大量的腐败，培育了一个不透明的体系，养成了一种骄傲自满的商业做法。”
In the current scandal, Korea Hydro officials are accused of ordering Kepco E & C to ignore faked certificates from the testing firm Saehan Total Engineering Provider Company. The testing company’s top officials and investors included current and former employees from Kepco E & C or their family members. (Although the company was called for comment several times in recent days, no one picked up the main line.)
在当前的丑闻中，韩水原官员被指命令韩电技术公司忽略测试企业世韩完全工程供应公司(Saehan Total Engineering Provider Company)发出的虚假证明。测试公司的最高层管理人员和投资者中，包括韩电技术的现任或前任员工及其家庭成员。（过去几天我们曾多次向该公司致电要求发表评论，但该公司总机一直无人应答。）
Amid a public uproar, the government fired the heads of both the Kepco subsidiaries. It also promised to enact new laws and tighten regulations to ban retirees from the two subsidiaries from getting jobs at suppliers and test agencies.
面对公众的愤怒，政府解雇了韩电这两家子公司的负责人。政府还承诺颁布新法律并加紧监管，禁止这两家子公司的退休人员在供应商或测试机构任职。
Political opposition parties, which control some seats on the Nuclear Safety and Security Commission — the top nuclear watchdog, which has long been criticized as being too cozy with the industry — recently added two critics of nuclear power to the regulatory group. But many worry the changes, and promised changes, will not be enough.
反对党在原子能安全委员会(Nuclear Safety and Security Commission)控制着几个席位。最近反对党在这个监管机构中新增了两名核电批评人士，但许多人担忧，这些变动，以及其他承诺实施的变动并不充分。原子能安全委员会是核能产业的最高监管机构，长期以来都被人批评与产业界关系过于亲密。
After last year’s scandal, the government had vowed to keep parts suppliers found to have falsified documents from bidding again for 10 years. But in February, Korea Hydro imposed only a six-month penalty for such suppliers. And nuclear opponents say that more fundamental changes are needed in the regulatory system, pointing out that one of the government’s main regulating arms, the Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety, gets 60 percent of its annual budget from Korea Hydro.
在去年的丑闻之后，政府承诺，零部件供应商如被发现伪造文件，将在未来10年里禁止再次投标。然而在2月，韩水原只对这样的供应商进行了六个月的处罚。反核人士表示，需要对监管体制做出更根本的变革，他们指出，政府所属的监管部门之一，韩国原子能安全技术院(Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety)有60%的预算来自韩水原。
Some go further, saying ordinary South Koreans will have to change their own expectations before real change can occur.
一些人的观点则更进一步，表示要让普通韩国人改变预期，才能发生真正的转变。
The nuclear industry, they say, was built around the notion that South Korea’s industries needed inexpensive power, leading Kepco to build plants quickly and operate them cheaply.
他们表示，韩国建设核电产业的初衷是该国工业需要廉价的电力，这就促使韩电快速建造电厂，并以低廉成本进行运营。
“South Koreans have guzzled cheap electricity while turning a blind eye to the safety concerns of their nuclear power plants,” said Yang Lee Won-young, a leader at the Korean Federation for Environmental Movement. “They may end up paying dearly.”
“韩国人挥霍廉价的电力，对核电站的安全隐患视而不见，”韩国环境运动联盟(Korean Federation for Environmental Movement)的一名领导人杨李媛莹（Yang Lee Won-young，音译）表示。“他们或许最终会付出惨重的代价。”