TOKYO — An arms race between the two most powerful Internet companies in China has escalated again, with one of them, Tencent, announcing an investment that pushes it further into e-commerce — territory long controlled by its rival, Alibaba.
东京——中国两家最大的互联网公司之间的一场军备竞赛再次升级，两家之一的腾讯公司宣布了一项投资计划，这将使其更深地进入电子商务领域，而该领域长期以来一直在腾讯的对手阿里巴巴公司的控制之下。
Tencent said late Wednesday that it would pay about 1.5 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $193 million, for a nearly 10 percent stake in China South City Holdings, which operates warehouses and factory outlet malls, and provides a variety of other logistical services to retailers. Both companies are listed in Hong Kong.
腾讯在周三晚些时候称，将用15亿港元(约合11.7亿元人民币)收购物流公司华南城控股有限公司（简称“华南城”）近10%的股份，华南城经营仓储和厂家直销购物中心等业务，还为零售商提供各种其他物流服务。这两家公司都在香港上市。
Until recently, Alibaba and Tencent seemed largely content to develop their own areas of expertise without moving too aggressively onto each other’s turf. Alibaba owns e-commerce sites like Taobao and Tall, while Tencent operates messaging services like QQ and WeChat.
直到最近，阿里巴巴和腾讯似乎基本满足于发展各自擅长的领域，没有太积极地进入它方的地盘。阿里巴巴有着像淘宝和天猫这样的电子商务网站，而腾讯则经营着像QQ和微信这样的通讯服务。
But over the last year or so, with Alibaba positioning itself for an initial public offering of shares and Tencent eyeing the lucrative earnings from the boom in online retailing in China, the companies have been pushing aggressively into each other’s traditional areas of dominance.
但是大约在过去一年中，随着阿里巴巴开始筹备首次公开募股，腾讯盯上中国在线零售商业繁荣所带来的可观利润，这两家公司开始猛烈地向对方的传统领域进军。
“Tencent is absolutely trying to get more aggressive in the e-business space, challenging Alibaba, as most of their services are now overlapping,'’ said Bryan Wang, an analyst at Forrester Research.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)分析师王平(Bryan Wang)说，“随着它们大部分业务正在重叠，腾讯绝对是要更猛烈进军电子商务领域，挑战阿里巴巴。”
In October, Jack Ma, the chairman of Alibaba, announced that he was shutting down his WeChat account and urged followers to do the same and switch their allegiance to a new Alibaba messaging service called Laiwang.
去年10月，阿里巴巴集团董事局主席马云宣布他停用微信账户，并呼吁自己的关注者也这样做，并转而使用阿里巴巴新推出的聊天服务“来往”。
Last week, Alibaba announced plans to set up a mobile game platform, where it will offer applications developed by outside programmers, sharing the revenue with them. Tencent generates more than half its revenue from games. It offers most for free but relies on the vast reach of WeChat, which says it has more than 270 million active monthly users, to fuel demand for subsequent in-game purchases by people determined to stay ahead of their friends.
上周，阿里巴巴宣布成立一个移动游戏平台，在平台上提供外部程序员开发的应用，并与他们分成。腾讯半数以上的营收来自游戏。公司大部分免费提供这些游戏，但依赖微信的巨大用户群(公司称微信上的活跃用户每月达2.7亿之多)，来提高玩游戏产生的购买需求，这种需求来自决意在游戏中比朋友们领先的玩家。
The video game market in China grew by 38 percent last year, to $13.8 billion, according to a government agency that monitors the industry. Mobile games were the fastest-growing segment, with revenue more than tripling, to $1.8 billion.
根据跟踪游戏行业的一家政府机构的数据，去年中国的视频游戏市场增长了38%，收入达到138亿美元（约合834亿元人民币）。移动游戏是增长最快的部分，收入增加了2倍，达到18亿美元。
E-commerce is a much bigger business. Last year, sales in China, including online transactions between businesses, rose to $335 billion from $221 billion in 2012, according to an Alibaba research center.
电子商务的业务更大。根据阿里巴巴研究中心的数据，去年中国包括企业间在线交易的销售额从2012年的2210亿美元增加至3350亿美元。
On one day in November when Chinese online retailers run a bevy of promotions, the company recorded $5.75 billion in transactions through its online payment system.
去年11月的一天，阿里巴巴的在线支付系统记录到的交易额达57.5亿美元，那是中国在线零售商集中促销的日子。
But Alibaba is not stopping there. In December, the company said it was investing about $360 million in Haier Group, one of the leading appliance makers in China. The companies said they would set up a logistics joint venture that would support Alibaba’s delivery operations. Alibaba also struck a deal last year with Sina Weibo, the operator of a microblogging platform, that is aimed at countering the popularity of WeChat and driving more users to Alibaba’s e-commerce platforms.
但是阿里巴巴并没有就此止步。去年12月，阿里巴巴称将对中国领先的家用电器制造商海尔集团投资约3.6亿美元。两家公司还宣布将成立一家合资物流公司，来支持阿里巴巴的快递服务。阿里巴巴去年还与微博运营商新浪微博达成一项协议，目的是与微信的人气抗衡，把更多用户吸引到阿里巴巴的电子商务平台来。
Tencent has responded with investments of its own, including the purchase of a stake in a search engine called Sogou. And the company has moved to build up its own e-commerce capabilities, which include sites like 51Buy and QQ Wanggou, by adding a payment feature to WeChat. Tencent said the agreement with China South City would enhance its e-commerce capabilities. The companies said they would work together to help small and midsize companies develop their online retail operations.
腾讯则以自己的投资作出回应，其中包括收购搜索引擎搜狗的股份。腾讯还通过给微信增加支付功能，来提高自己在电子商务方面的能力，腾讯旗下的电子商务有51Buy和QQ网购等。腾讯称，与华南城的协议将会提升公司在电子商务方面的能力。这两家公司称，将共同帮助中小型公司开发它们的在线零售业务。
“Cooperation with China South City enables us to jointly facilitate such enterprises migrating online, utilizing China South City’s physical locations and logistics capabilities, together with Tencent’s Internet user platforms and technology capabilities,” Martin Lau, the president of Tencent, said in a news release.
腾讯总裁刘炽平在一份新闻发布稿中说，“这次与华南城的合作能充分发挥华南城的据点及物流优势，以及腾讯的庞大用户群和技术实力，共同促进这些企业利用在线处理业务。”
In addition to warehouses and other logistical facilities, China South City operates factory outlet malls featuring brands like Nike and Adidas. Tencent and China South City said in a statement that they would “explore opportunities for cooperation with respect to online outlet services for branded goods.”
华南城除了仓储和其他物流设施以外，还经营厂家直销购物中心，销售如耐克、阿迪达斯等名牌产品。腾讯和华南城在一份声明中称，它们将“共同探索在线品牌特卖服务合作。”
Both Tencent and China South City have their headquarters in Shenzhen, China.
腾讯和华南城的总部都在中国深圳市。