I didn’t plan to order dessert after my recent lunch at Calliope in the East Village. But the waiter told me the chocolate hazelnut ice cream was extraordinary. I don’t often say no to extraordinary, even when I’m skeptical. Was there really anything that could raise this chocolate hazelnut ice cream that far above the usual stuff?
我最近在东村Calliope餐厅用午餐时本来没打算点甜品。但是服务生告诉我这里的榛子巧克力冰激凌特别好吃。我一般不会拒绝特别好吃的东西，即使在我有所怀疑的时候。真的有什么东西让这里的榛子巧克力冰激凌比普通的好吃很多吗？
In a word, yes. And the answer is butter.
一个字：有。这种东西就是黄油。
It’s what gave the ice cream its voluptuous, velvety texture, almost like frozen chocolate mousse, but denser. It was utterly creamy and completely without ice crystals. The waiter was right.
正是黄油让这种冰激凌拥有了撩人的、柔软光滑的质地，几乎像是冷冻的巧克力慕斯，但是味道更浓郁。它完全是乳脂状的，完全没有冰渣。那个服务生说得没错。
Adding butter is a trick that Ginevra Iverson, a chef-owner of the restaurant (along with her husband, Eric Korsh), came up with to help smooth out the texture of her chocolate ice cream. She melts a few tablespoons along with the gianduja (hazelnut-imbued chocolate) before whisking it into the custard. The only potentially tricky part is combining those two mixtures; the custard and melted gianduja need to be the same temperature, otherwise you could break the two emulsions and the whole thing will contract and curdle.
加入黄油是该店的大厨兼老板杰妮娅·艾弗森（Ginevra Iverson，和她的丈夫艾利克·科尔什[Eric Korsh]一起）想出来的妙计，为的是让巧克力冰激凌的质地更柔滑。在把榛子巧克力酱搅入奶油蛋羹之前，她加了几汤匙黄油。唯一可能比较不好把握的就是如何把这两种混合物融合在一起。奶油蛋羹和融合了的榛子巧克力酱需要保持同样的温度，否则可能会破坏这两种乳剂，整个东西会收缩、凝固。
At Calliope, Ms. Iverson uses a solid bar of gianduja from Valrhona. I used an artisanal brand of chocolate hazelnut spread, but plain old Nutella would work just as well.
在Calliope餐厅，艾弗森用的是Valrhona牌的固体榛子巧克力棒。我用的是一个手工制作的榛子巧克力品牌，但是普通的、传统的Nutella牌也一样好用。
Finally, Ms. Iverson folds whole roasted hazelnuts into the ice cream, but makes sure not to include any of the nut dust that you sometimes get after peeling. It’s a minor gesture that keeps the ice cream silky and grit free. And helps make it extraordinary.
最后，艾弗森把整粒烤好的榛子拌入冰激凌中，但是一定不要把去皮时沾上的榛子皮灰也弄进去。这个小细节可以保证冰激凌柔滑，完全没有砂砾感。而且能让冰激凌特别好吃。
Title: Chocolate Hazelnut Ice Cream
食谱：榛子巧克力冰激凌
Yield: About 1 1/2 pints
成品：约1.5品脱
Time: 30 minutes, plus chilling and freezing
用时：30分钟，不含冷却和冷冻的时间
Ingredients:
配料：
3/4 cup hazelnuts
3/4杯榛子
6 ounces gianduja (chocolate-hazelnut) paste (about 3/4 cup)
6盎司榛子巧克力酱（约3/4杯）
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2汤匙不加盐的黄油
1 cup half-and-half
1杯牛奶和奶油的混合物
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4杯砂糖
Pinch salt
一丁点儿盐
1 vanilla bean, split and scraped
1个香草豆荚，劈开，刮净 6 egg yolks
6个蛋黄
2 cups heavy cream
2杯浓奶油
Melted bittersweet chocolate, for serving (optional)
融化的苦甜参半的巧克力，供上桌用（可选）
Method:
制作方法：
Heat oven to 350 degrees and spread hazelnuts on a rimmed baking sheet. Toast in the oven for 10 minutes, or until fragrant. Let cool for about 10 minutes (or until cool enough to handle but still warm) and rub the nuts in a dish towel to remove most of the skins (some will cling and that’s O.K.).
1. 把烤箱加热到350华氏度，把榛子分散放在一个带边的烤盘上。烤10分钟，或者烤至有香味散发出来。晾约10分钟（或者晾至不烫手，但仍有热度），在碗中摩擦榛子，以去除大部分的皮（有的皮会粘在上面，这没有关系）。
In a medium bowl, melt together gianduja paste and butter, either over a pot with 1 inch of simmering water or in a microwave. Keep mixture warm.
2. 在中等大小的碗里，融化榛子巧克力酱和黄油，可以放入锅里，加一英寸高的水，用文火融化，或者用微波炉融化。让这个混合物保持温热。
In a medium saucepan, bring the half-and-half, sugar, salt and vanilla bean to a simmer until the sugar melts, taking care not to boil. Stir occasionally.
3. 在中等大小的锅中，把牛奶奶油混合物、糖、盐和香草豆荚加热至将沸，直至砂糖融化，注意不要让汁液剧烈沸腾。偶尔搅拌。
Place egg yolks in a small bowl. Slowly whisk in a 1/4 cup of the hot half-and-half mixture, whisking constantly and carefully so as not to scramble the yolks. Slowly pour the egg mixture back into the remaining half-and-half, whisking constantly. Heat the custard through, but do not simmer. If you see curdled clumps in your custard, pass through a fine strainer before continuing.
4. 把蛋黄放入一个小碗中。慢慢搅入1/4杯刚才做好的热牛奶奶油混合物，不断地、小心地搅拌，不要把蛋黄搅得一团糟。慢慢把蛋黄混合物倒回剩下的牛奶奶油混合物中，不断搅拌。把奶油蛋羹彻底加热，但是别让它沸腾。如果奶油蛋羹中有凝固的小块，用细密的过滤器过滤之后再继续。
While whisking constantly, slowly pour the warm custard into the warm melted chocolate (you want the two mixtures to be the same temperature). Once the chocolate custard is thoroughly combined and smooth, whisk in heavy cream. Cover custard and transfer to the refrigerator to chill for at least 2 hours.
5. 搅拌的时候，慢慢地把微热的奶油蛋羹倒入微热的、融化的巧克力中（你需要让这两种混合物保持同样的温度）。巧克力奶油蛋羹完全融合、变滑之后，搅入浓奶油。盖上盖子，移入冰箱，至少冷冻2小时。
Pour chocolate hazelnut custard into an ice cream machine and chill according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
6. 把榛子巧克力奶油蛋羹倒入制作冰激凌的机器中，根据机器的说明冷冻。
Fold whole hazelnuts into ice cream, excluding any powder from the nuts (it just feels gritty on the tongue). Serve at once or freeze.
7. 把整粒榛子拌入冰激凌中，除去榛子上的所有粉状物（粉状物会让你的舌头有砂砾感）。即刻上桌，或者冷冻。
To serve, drizzle with melted bittersweet chocolate.
8. 上桌的时候，滴入一些融化了的苦甜参半的巧克力。