TOTAL TIME
总计用时
About 1 hour
约1小时
FOR THE SUMMER ROLLS:
龙虾卷配料：
1 pound cooked lobster meat, diced
1磅煮好的龙虾肉，切碎
2 teaspoons grated ginger
2茶匙姜末
Zest of 1 lime
1个酸橙的皮屑
1/2 cup slivered scallions
1/2杯葱末
Salt and pepper
盐和胡椒
1 small cucumber, peeled
1个小黄瓜，去皮
2 firm-ripe avocados
2个成熟而坚实的牛油果
Rice paper wrappers, 12-inch rounds (or use 8-inch rounds) 
圆形米纸皮，12英寸（或8英寸）直径
24 large basil leaves
24片大罗勒叶
Cilantro sprigs from a small bunch
一小把芫荽的茎
Lettuce leaves, optional
莴苣叶，可选
FOR THE DIPPING SAUCE:
蘸汁配料：
1/2 cup lime juice
1/2杯酸橙汁
2 tablespoons light brown or raw sugar
2汤匙黄砂糖或粗糖
1 tablespoon grated ginger
1汤匙姜末
1 teaspoon fish sauce
1茶匙鱼露
1 small Serrano or Thai chile, sliced
1个小墨西哥辣椒或泰椒，切碎
1 tablespoon roughly chopped roasted peanuts
1汤匙粗切烤花生
PREPARATION
制作方法
1. Make the summer roll filling: In a small bowl, combine lobster meat, ginger, lime zest and scallions. Season with salt and pepper, toss to coat and set aside. Slice cucumber lengthwise into thin julienne strips. Quarter and peel avocados.
1. 做龙虾卷的馅料：在一个小碗里，把龙虾肉、姜末、酸橙皮屑和葱末混合在一起。加入盐和胡椒，搅拌均匀，放到一边。把黄瓜切成纵长的细条。把牛油果切成四瓣，去皮。
2. Fill a medium bowl with lukewarm water. To make each roll, dip a rice paper round into water until just softened, then remove and spread flat on a cutting board. (If you are using 8-inch rounds, dip 2 rounds for each roll, then overlap them as you spread them flat on a cutting board.)
2. 在一个中碗里倒入温水。在做每个卷之前，把圆米纸在水里蘸一下，至稍稍变软，然后平铺到切板上（如果你用的是8英寸的圆米纸，做一个卷需要蘸两张米纸，把它们平铺到切板上时保持部分重叠）。
3. Lay 2 or 3 basil leaves along the bottom third of the softened rice paper round, then spread 2 ounces lobster mixture on the round. Top with a few strips of cucumber and 1/4 of an avocado cut in chunks. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and press down to compress, then add a few cilantro sprigs.
3. 在变软的圆米纸中心的三分之一部分铺上二至三片罗勒叶，然后抹上2盎司龙虾馅。上面放一些黄瓜条和切成长条的四分之一瓣牛油果。撒上盐和胡椒，按压紧实，然后加入一些芫荽茎。
4. To roll up, fold sides of rice paper round toward its center, overlapping filling by an inch or so. Now, starting at bottom of round, begin to form a tight cylinder, rolling toward top. Repeat to make rest of the rolls. Put on a tray, cover and refrigerate for an hour.
4. 把米纸的边向中间折叠，重叠1英寸左右。现在，从圆米张的底部开始向上卷，做一个紧实的圆柱。剩下的卷依此照做。放到一个托盘上，盖上盖子，在冰箱里冷藏一个小时。
5. Make the dipping sauce: Mix together lime juice, sugar, ginger, fish sauce and chile. Let macerate at least 30 minutes.
5. 做蘸汁：把酸橙汁、糖、姜末、鱼露和辣椒混合到一起。至少浸渍30分钟。
6. To serve, carefully cut each roll into 3 or 4 pieces, and stir chopped peanuts into dipping sauce. Arrange rolls on lettuce leaves, and serve with sauce.
6. 上桌的时候，小心地把每个卷切成3至4段，把切好的烤花生搅入蘸汁中。把卷放到莴苣叶上，和蘸汁一起上桌。
YIELD
份量
8 large rolls
8个大卷