DUESSELDORF, Germany — When Andreas Lubitz sent an email in 2009 seeking reinstatement to Lufthansa's flight-training program after a monthslong absence, he appended what in retrospect was a clear warning signal about his fitness to fly passenger jetliners: an acknowledgment that he had suffered from severe depression.
德国杜塞尔多夫——2009年，安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)写电子邮件给汉莎航空公司，请求在缺勤数月之后重返飞行员训练项目的时候，他附加了一条事后看来是明确警报的信息，足以暴露他作为客机驾驶员的健康问题：他承认自己患有严重的抑郁症。
Lufthansa put the young German back through its standard applicant-screening process and medical tests. But it did not, from everything known about the case so far, pursue any plan to ensure that he was getting appropriate treatment. Nor did it impose special monitoring of his condition beyond that required for any pilot who had a flagged health issue.
汉莎经过常规的申请人筛选和体检之后，重新接收了这个德国青年。但根据现有的一切已知信息，汉莎并没有任何计划跟进，确保他能接受适当的治疗。除了适用于任何被发现有健康问题的飞行员的管理措施，汉莎也没有采取任何特别监控手段，去观察他的病情。
Instead, Lubitz haltingly made his way through the training program and ultimately was entrusted as an Airbus A320 co-pilot for Lufthansa's low-cost subsidiary, Germanwings. Lufthansa was so unaware of the extent of Lubitz's psychological troubles that the company and its medical staff had no idea of the tortured drama playing out in his mind, peaking in the two or three months leading up to his final flight. Investigators told The New York Times that he visited a dozen or more doctors as he frantically sought treatment for real or imagined ailments.
卢比茨就这样带着问题通过了培训，最终还当上了汉莎旗下低成本航空公司一架空中客车A320的副驾驶员。卢比茨的心理疾患有多严重，汉莎一无所知。就在他执行最后一次飞行前的两三个月，卢比茨内心戏剧性的痛苦挣扎接近顶峰，但公司和公司的医疗团队跟本不知道。调查人员告诉《纽约时报》，他曾看过十几位医生，迫不及待地为真实和臆想的病痛寻求治疗。
In the days just after Lubitz, 27, flew himself and 149 other people into a French mountainside last month, Lufthansa's chief executive confidently pronounced that Lubitz had been “100 percent“ fit to fly, highlighting how little the airline knew of the pilot who shook confidence in the company's reputation for training and management rigor.
上个月，27岁的卢比茨驾驶载着除他之外还有149人的客机撞向法国境内的高山。就在事发几天前，汉莎的首席执行官还充满自信地宣布卢比茨的健康状况“百分之百”适宜飞行，可见汉莎对这个飞行员的了解是多么少。就是这个飞行员动摇了人们对汉莎严格培训和管理的信心。
Lubitz's journey to the moment when he found himself alone at the controls of Germanwings Flight 9525 from Barcelona, Spain, to Duesseldorf on March 24 exposes a series of failures and weaknesses at Lufthansa and throughout the industry and its regulators in dealing with mental illness among pilots. And it shows how little the industry and its regulators have done to acknowledge and address the most extreme manifestation of those psychological strains: pilot suicide.
这整个过程，一直到3月24日从西班牙巴塞罗那飞往杜塞尔多夫的德国之翼(Germanwings Flight)9525航班上，卢比茨独自一人待在驾驶舱里，都暴露了汉莎、整个航空行业以及监管机构在应对飞行员精神疾病方面的失败和不足。这也表明，行业和监管机构在承认和处理这些精神压力最极端的表现——飞行员自杀——时做得有多么不足。
Lubitz's increasingly troubled behavior in the period leading up to his final flight raised no alarms at the airline.
卢比茨最后一次飞行前越来越古怪的举动，并没有引起航空公司的注意。
Although he had passed his standard medical exam by a flight doctor in August, he had more recent notes from specialists declaring him unfit to work that he never shared with his employer.
尽管他通过了8月飞行医生的例行医疗检查，但此后专家开具过一些证明，宣称他根本无法工作，但他从未向航空公司报告这些信息。
In the days before his final flight, he seems to have methodically plotted his own demise and that of his passengers. He researched methods of committing suicide, investigators say, and looked into cockpit security procedures. When he left for work on the morning of March 24, scheduled to fly from Duesseldorf to Barcelona and back, his iPad browser, according to one investigator, still had tabs open about two recent airline disasters. They were the mysterious disappearance last year of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 and a Mozambique Airlines flight in 2013 in which the captain was found to have intentionally crashed in Namibia, killing himself, five other crew members and all 27 passengers.
在进行最后一次飞行的前几天，他似乎有条不紊地计划了自杀和杀死乘客一事。调查人员称，他研究了自杀方法，还查看了驾驶舱的安全程序。一名调查人员表示，3月24日上午，当他前去工作时——这架航班按计划将从杜塞尔多夫飞往巴塞罗那，然后飞回——他的iPad浏览器仍然开着关于两起近期空难的页面。这两起事故分别是马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines Flight)370航班的神秘失踪，以及2013年莫桑比克航空公司(Mozambique Airlines)一架航班的事故——机长故意让飞机在纳米比亚坠毁，他本人和其他五名机组成员，以及27名乘客全部遇难。
“The airline management, the supervisors, the dispatchers — they do not see the pilots very much,” said André Droog, a former psychologist with the KLM Flight Academy in the Netherlands, who is now president of the European Association for Aviation Psychology. “It puts a lot of responsibility on the individual pilot to be responsible and self-critical and to manage their lives very well.”
“航空公司的管理、指导、调度人员——他们不会过于关注飞行员，”前荷兰皇家航空公司(KLM Flight Academy)心理师、目前担任欧洲航空心理学协会(European Association for Aviation Psychology)主席的安德烈·德罗赫(André Droog)说。“它把很多责任留给了飞行员个人，包括要负责、自律和管理好自己的生活。”
The pervasive culture of privacy in Germany created a bias against delving into Lubitz's condition and effectively blinded the country's airline regulator to the medical problems afflicting German pilots.
德国无处不在的隐私文化让人们不愿去过分关注卢比茨的身体状况，这种文化实际上也使该国的航空公司监管机构无法了解到德国飞行员的健康问题。
The German Federal Aviation Office, which issues pilot's licenses, relies entirely on the country's nearly 500 licensed flight doctors to determine pilots' fitness to fly. But an audit last year by the European Aviation Safety Agency found that Germany's strict data-protection rules mean that the information that flight doctors submit to the regulator is not sufficiently detailed to allow officials to validate the doctors' findings.
发放飞行员执照的德国联邦航空局(The German Federal Aviation Office)，完全依赖该国的近500名航空医生来确定飞行员的健康状况。不过，欧洲航空安全局(European Aviation Safety Agency)去年进行的一次审计发现，德国严格的数据保护规定意味着航空医生提交给监管机构的信息不够详实，官员无法证实医生的结论。
The European Commission called on Germany in November to fix this among a dozen other oversight failures identified by the aviation safety agency. Berlin responded last year with a series of proposed remedies, which the authorities in Brussels continue to review. A ruling from the commission is expected in the coming months.
去年11月，欧盟委员会呼吁德国解决这一问题，同时也弥补这个航空安全机构发现的其他数十个监管漏洞。柏林去年提出了一系列治理方案作为回应。布鲁塞尔的官员仍在对这些提议进行审核。欧盟委员会预计会在未来几个月做出裁决。
Other nations have taken stricter measures than Germany has when it comes to dealing with depression and other mental illnesses among flight crews.
在应对机组人员的抑郁症和其他精神问题方面，其他国家采取的措施要比德国严格。
Dr. Richard Soderberg, chief medical officer at the civil aviation and maritime department of the Swedish Transport Agency, said that while depression would not permanently disqualify a pilot in Sweden, the pilot would be grounded during treatment. The agency would then require the pilot to turn over all medical records pertaining to the depression and submit to psychiatric evaluation every six weeks or so, and the pilot would not be allowed to fly alone.
瑞典交通局(Swedish Transport Agency)的民用航空和海事部的首席医务官理查德·索德伯格(Richard Soderberg)说，尽管在瑞典飞行员不会因为抑郁症而终身失去飞行资格，但在治疗期间必须暂停飞行。该机构会要求飞行员提交与抑郁症有关的所有医疗记录，并且每六个星期左右接受一次心理评估，此外，这名飞行员将不允许单独飞行。