Japanese voters handed a landslide victory to the governing Liberal Democratic Party in parliamentary elections on Sunday, opening the possibility of accelerated changes to Japan’s economy and a shift away from its postwar pacifism.
在周日的议会选举中，日本选民给予执政的自由民主党(Liberal Democratic Party)压倒性胜利，为日本经济的加速变革提供了机会，也为改变战后的和平主义立场提供了可能性。
By securing control of both houses of Parliament for up to three years, the win offers Prime Minister Shinzo Abe — an outspoken nationalist who promises to revitalize Japan’s deflationary economy and strengthen its military — the chance to be the most transformative leader in a decade. Although a lackluster turnout suggested that Mr. Abe might not have as much of a mandate as his supporters hoped, the margin of victory was large enough to suggest he has an opportunity to also bring stability to the country’s leadership after years of short-lived and ineffective prime ministers.
通过赢得了议会两院的多数席位，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)至少在未来三年中得以控制议会，这给了他成为10年来最具变革性的领导人的机会。安倍晋三是一名直言不讳的民族主义者，承诺要重振日本通货紧缩的经济，加强国家的军事实力。虽然这次选举的选民投票率不怎么高，意味着安倍也许不具有其支持者所希望的那么强有力的授权，但是自民党领先的票数之多足以说明，他有机会给日本的领导层带来稳定，近年来，日本首相的任期都不长、作用也不大。
The win comes at a time when many Japanese seem more open than ever to change, after years of failed efforts to end their nation’s economic slump, and as an intensifying territorial challenge by China has nudged this long pacifist nation toward accepting a more robust military.
这次选举胜利到来之际，正是许多日本人似乎比以往任何时候都愿意改革之时，也是该国试图结束其经济萧条的多年努力屡遭失败之后，而中国提出的不断强化的领土挑战正在把这个长期的和平主义国家推向朝着接受更强大的军事力量的方向发展。
Unlike some of Japan’s previous colorless leaders, Mr. Abe, 58, seems eager to become an agent of change. He campaigned on this being Japan’s last chance to regain its economic stature as the country has been eclipsed by China, with Sunday’s victory apparently largely because of the early successes of his bold economic plan, called Abenomics. But his apparent desire to stand up to the Chinese by rewriting Japan’s antiwar Constitution to allow a full-fledged military rather than self-defense forces have raised fears he will go too far and further isolate Japan in the region.
与日本此前的一些缺乏个性的领导人不同，58岁的安倍晋三似乎渴望成为变革的行动者。他在竞选中宣称，这是日本恢复其被中国取代了的经济地位的最后机会，周日的选举胜利来看在很大程度上是由于他的大胆经济政策、安倍经济学的初步成功。但他发誓要勇敢地面对中国，通过修改日本的反战宪法，允许日本合法拥有完备的军事力量，而不只是自卫的力量，他的这种观点让人们担心他会走得太远，而且让日本在该地区更加孤立。
A week before the election, he became the first prime minister to visit a tropical island near the group of uninhabited islets at the heart of the dispute with China. He had earlier raised eyebrows by riding in a tank and climbing into a fighter jet in front of cameras. “Abe has a pragmatic side and a strongly nationalistic side,” said Hiroshi Shiratori, a professor of political science at Hosei University in Tokyo. “This election could free him up to do more of the latter, which is what he really wants.”
在选举的一周前，他成了登上处于中日争端中心的那些无人群岛附近一个热带岛屿的第一名首相。此前他还曾在镜头前坐进一辆坦克，登上一架战斗机，引起了人们的惊讶。东京都法政大学(Hosei University in Tokyo)政治学教授白鸟浩(Hiroshi Shiratori)说，“安倍晋三有务实的一面，也有强烈民族主义的一面。这次选举给了他更多地行民族主义之能事的自由，这正是他求之不得的。”
It remains unclear how far the Japanese people will let him go. While Sunday’s results gave his governing coalition a comfortable majority in the upper house, they failed to deliver the two-thirds majority that the conservative Liberal Democrats and other similarly minded parties had hoped for to easily revise the Constitution, something that has not happened since it was crafted by American occupiers after World War II. And the sparse turnout — at 52 percent the third-lowest showing in postwar history — suggests less popular support than the results implied.
但日本民众愿意让安倍晋三走多远仍属未知。尽管周日的结果在上院中给了他的执政联盟一个稳固的大多数席位，但席位数低于自民党及其志同道合的党派所希望获得的三分之二多数，有了三分之二多数就能轻易地修改宪法了。自从二次大战后美国占领军起草了日本宪法后，迄今为止还没有修改过。而且选民的低投票率说明，政府的支持率比选举结果显示的要低，此次选举的投票率是52%，这在日本战后历史上排名倒数第三。
By early morning on Monday, officials said the Liberal Democrats had won 65 of the 121 seats being contested. When combined with the 11 seats secured by its junior partner, a small Buddhist party, the Liberal Democrat-led coalition had taken enough seats to gain a majority in the 242-seat chamber.
截止到周一大早，官员称自民党人赢得了121个竞逐议席中的65席。加上其联盟中的小伙伴，一个佛教党派赢得的11个席位，自民党已经获得了242席中的多数。
The largest opposition group, the Democratic Party, suffered a humbling setback, the party’s worst since its creation in 1998. The Democrats secured just 17 seats from voters who still blame it for failing to deliver on promised reforms after a landmark election four years ago that ousted the Liberal Democrats in what had seemed to herald the advent of a vibrant two-party democracy. Before the vote on Sunday, one weekly tabloid criticized the impending return of the Liberal Democrats’ effective monopoly as “a return to the ways of our ancestors.”
最大的反对党民主党(Democratic Party)遇到了让人引以为耻的挫折，只获得了17个席位，这是该党自1998年创建以来最糟糕的表现。选民们仍然在惩罚民主党，四年前该党赢得了标志性的胜利，把自民党赶下台，但之后未能履行自己的改革承诺。那场选举曾似乎预示着一个生机勃勃的两党民主即将到来。周日选举之前，一份周报批评说，即将到来的自民党的实际政治垄断，是“回到了我们老祖宗的时代了”。
So long as the Liberal Democratic Party’s coalition holds together, it will not face new elections for three years. That could free Mr. Abe to follow his early economic stimulus initiatives with the type of structural reforms that will challenge powerful vested interests. While Mr. Abe has been somewhat vague on these plans, he has already pushed the country to join trade negotiations that could loosen small farmers’ grip on agriculture.
只要自民党的执政联盟能维持团结，它在三年内将不会面对新的选举。这可以让安倍将其早期的经济刺激方案推行下去，其中包括挑战强有力的既得利益的结构性改革。虽然安倍对这些方案有些语焉不详，但他已经迫使日本加入到贸易谈判中，谈判可能会把对农业的控制从日本小农的手中剥夺出来。
Speaking to reporters after the victory, Mr. Abe thanked voters for ending the so-called twisted Parliament, in which opposing parties had each controlled one house of Parliament since 2007, adding to Japan’s political paralysis. But he admitted that he faced a serious challenge in convincing other lawmakers and also voters about changes to the Constitution. (By law, revisions passed by Parliament must then be approved in a public referendum.)
安倍晋三在获胜后接受记者采访时，感谢选民终止了所谓的扭曲议会。自2007年起，不同意见的政党一直分别控制着日本议会上下两院中的一个，加重了日本长久以来的政治瘫痪。但是，他承认在修改宪法上，他面对说服其他立法者及选民的严峻挑战。(按照法律规定，宪法修正案在议会通过后，还必须通过选民的公决。)
“There is still a need to widen and deepen the debate on the Constitution,” Mr. Abe said. “Voters have given us this new period of political stability, so we have time to deepen the debate.”
安倍晋三说，“仍然需要扩大和加深有关宪法的讨论。选民们给了我们一个政治稳定的新时期，所以我们有时间深化这次辩论。”
He said he would also pursue an intermediate step to make the Constitution easier to revise by requiring a simple majority in Parliament instead of the current two-thirds. But making this change would also require changing the Constitution, and gathering enough votes to do so.
他说，他也会努力推进一个中间步骤，从现在修宪所需的议会中三分之二的多数支持，变为简单多数支持，从而使修订宪法变得更容易。但是，这一改变也需要修订宪法，意味着也需要得到足够多的支持票数。
Still, analysts said Sunday’s win, coming just seven months after Mr. Abe’s party regained control of the lower house, had made reform of the Constitution feel like a real possibility for the first time since it was adopted in 1947. In interviews outside polling stations, voters themselves said that anxiety about China made them willing to at least try some of Mr. Abe’s ideas. “I agree with Abe,” said Noriaki Hibi, a 51-year-old telecommunications worker in the Tokyo suburb of Sayama. “Given the current situation with China, I think we need military preparedness.”
尽管如此，一些分析人士称，在安倍晋三的自民党重新控制下院仅七个月之后，周日的选举胜利似乎首次为修改宪法提供了真正的可能，日本现在的宪法是1947年采用的。在投票站外的采访中，选民们自己表示，对中国的担忧让他们愿意试试至少一部分安倍晋三的主张。51岁的日比泽明（Noriaki Hibi，音译）是东京郊区峡山市的一名电信工人。他说，“我同意安倍晋三的主张。鉴于现在我们目前跟中国的关系，我认为我们需要做好军事准备。”
That support could fall once discussion turns to the specifics of constitutional reform, analysts say, with polls showing a majority of voters still resist change to the pacifist Constitution even as the possibility has become a more widely accepted topic of conversation. “This is not unconditional support for Mr. Abe’s whole agenda,” said Jun Iio, a political scientist at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. “Public support could evaporate if the economy starts to sour.”
分析人士称，一旦讨论转向修宪的具体细节，人们的支持可能会降低，民调显示多数选民仍然反对修改宪法中的反战条款，虽然修宪的可能性已经成为被人们更广泛接受的话题。政策研究大学院大学(National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies)的政治学家饭尾润(Jun Iio)说，“这并不是无条件支持安倍晋三的所有政策。如果经济开始变糟糕，公众的支持就有可能蒸发。”
Perhaps as a result, Mr. Abe spent much of the campaign promoting his economic accomplishments, which have included a rally in Japan’s stock market and, with the drop in the value of the yen, a reprieve for staggering electronics and other exporters. Analysts say the main lesson of Mr. Abe’s disastrous first term as prime minister six years ago — when he was the first in a series of short-lived leaders — was that he cannot push too hard a nationalistic agenda while ignoring the economy.
或许出于这个原因，安倍在竞选中花了大量时间宣传他在经济上的成就，包括日本股票的大幅上涨，以及日元的贬值为步履艰难的电子和其他行业的出口商带来的一线生机。分析人士称，安倍从6年前第一次任首相的糟糕任期中学到的最大教训是，大力推动民族主义议程时，不能忽略经济。安倍上次担任首相是日本近年来一连串短命首相的起点。
At that time, voters soured on him as he failed to address pocketbook issues and focused his attention on right-wing issues like revising school curriculum to end the teaching of what he and his core nationalist supporters characterized as a masochistic view of history that paid too much attention to Japan’s wartime atrocities. He resigned in disgrace after just one year. This time, Mr. Abe has maintained an uncharacteristically moderate tone since becoming prime minister in December and has emphasized his economic program.
当时，选民因他没能解决钱包问题，却把注意力放在右翼议程上而抛弃了他。他当时推动的右翼议程包括修改教学大纲，要结束他以及他的核心民族主义支持者称之为自讨苦吃的历史观，他们认为在这种观点指导下的课程过于关注日本战时的暴行。仅一年之后，安倍就狼狈地辞职了。这次，安倍自从在去年12月担任首相以来，他一直保持一种非同寻常的温和态度，而且主要强调他的经济政策。
On Saturday in front of a busy Tokyo train station, Mr. Abe evoked Japan’s economic heyday in the 1970s and 1980s.
周日，安倍在东京一个繁忙的火车站前，唤起人们对日本在20世纪70年代和80年代黄金时期的回忆。
“It’s up to us whether we want to show that ambition again or not,” said Mr. Abe, who punched the air as he stood atop a truck before a cheering crowd. “I say, let’s go for it one more time!”
“是否要再现那种雄心壮志将取决于我们”，安倍站在一辆卡车上，面对眼前欢呼的听众，把拳头挥向空中道，“我说，让我们再一次开始行动吧！”
In one of his few mentions of constitutional reform during the campaign, Mr. Abe sought to allay concerns about his intentions by suggesting that he wanted to retain the provision that renounces war as “a means of settling international disputes.” He also said having a more normal military was necessary if Japan wanted to play a larger role in international affairs, and to act as a full-fledged ally of the United States, its postwar protector.
安倍在竞选中只有几次提到修改宪法，在其中的一次他试图淡化人们对其意图的担忧，暗示他希望保留宪法中放弃战争是“解决国际纠纷的一种方式”的条款。他还说，如果日本想要在国际事务中发挥更大作用，成为其战后保护国美国完全合格的盟友的话，就需要有更正规的军队。
Indeed, some analysts said the reaction of other nations, and particularly the United States, might be the biggest constraint on whether Mr. Abe seeks to revise the Constitution. While American officials have said that they would welcome Japan’s carrying more of its own weight in defense, they also worry that a clumsily handled move away from pacifism could antagonize a region where memories of Japan’s wartime aggression remain raw. The United States would be especially concerned about a rift with South Korea, its other main ally in the region.
的确，一些分析人士称，在安倍是否寻求修改宪法这一问题上，其他国家，尤其是美国的反应可能是最大的限制。虽然美国官员称，他们欢迎日本在防卫上能承担更多自己的责任，但他们也担心如果在偏离和平主义问题上做得很笨，将会在东亚引发对日本的敌对态度，该地区对日本二战中的侵略行为记忆犹新。美国将特别关注与韩国的可能分歧，韩国是美国在这个地区的另一主要盟友。
“Abe wants to restore Japan’s place in the world,” said Yun Duk-min, an expert on international relations at the Korea National Diplomatic Academy in Seoul. “But how can he do that if he ignores the feelings of other countries in the region?”
位于首尔的韩国国家外交学院(Korea National Diplomatic Academy)国际关系专家尹德民（Yun Duk-min，音译）说，“安倍希望恢复日本在世界上的地位。但如果他忽视该地区其他国家的感情，他怎么能做到这一点呢？”