These locations are never random. These targets aren’t accidental. They’re the very vocabulary in which assailants like the Orlando gunman speak, and he chose a place where there’s drinking. And dancing. And where L.G.B.T. people congregate, feeling a sense of welcome, of belonging.
这些地点绝不是随机挑选的。这些目标也不是偶然确定的。它们是奥兰多枪手之类的凶手表达自己时使用的词汇。而且他选择了一个供人喝酒、跳舞的地方。一个让LGBT人群（女同性恋、同性恋、双性恋、跨性别者——译注）汇聚一堂，觉得自己受到欢迎、有归属感的地方。
That last detail is already in the foreground of the deadliest mass shooting in American history — and rightly so.
最后一个细节已经被当成这场美国历史上最致命的大规模枪击事件中极为突出之处——也的确应该如此。
But let’s be clear: This was no more an attack just on L.G.B.T. people than the bloodshed at the offices of Charlie Hebdo in Paris was an attack solely on satirists.
但我们必须清楚：这绝不仅仅是对LGBT人群的袭击，就像针对巴黎《查理周刊》(Charlie Hebdo)办公室的血腥杀戮绝不仅仅是对讽刺漫画家的袭击一样。
Both were attacks on freedom itself. Both took aim at societies that, at their best, integrate and celebrate diverse points of view, diverse systems of belief, diverse ways to love. And to speak of either massacre more narrowly than that is to miss the greater message, the more pervasive danger and the truest stakes.
上述两场袭击的目标都是自由本身。它们所针对的都是有时会尽最大努力包容和颂扬不同观点、不同信仰体系，不同爱的方式的社会。如果以相比之下较为狭隘的视角论及这两场杀戮，那我们就会忽视更重要的信息，更普遍的危险，以及真正的厉害关系。
We don’t yet know all that much about Omar Mateen, who pulled the trigger, again and again, in a nightclub whose name connotes life, not death: Pulse. We’ll be learning more in the hours and days to come, including just how potently homophobia in particular factored into his actions, how much ideological influence the Islamic State or other extremists had, how extensive his planning was, how far back he began plotting this, and how much he knew about Pulse itself and the specific composition of its crowd on different nights of the week.
对于一次又一次扣动扳机的奥马尔·马廷(Omar Mateen)，我们还没有太多了解，他行凶的那家夜店，有一个蕴含着生命而非死亡的名字：Pulse（脉搏）。接下来几个小时、几天里，我们会了解更多的信息，包括恐同症究竟在多大程度上促使他采取这样的举动，伊斯兰国(Islamic State)或其他极端分子对他产生了多大的意识形态影响，他的计划有多周密，他从什么时候开始准备，对于Pulse本身以及这一周的每一晚店内人群的具体构成，他又有多少了解。
But we can assume — no, we can be sure — that he was lashing out at an America at odds with his darker, smaller, more oppressive mind-set. The people inside Pulse were citizens of it. More to the point, they were emblems of it. In Pulse they found a refuge. In Pulse they found joy. To him they deserved neither. And he communicated that with an assault rifle and bullets.
但我们可以假定——不，我们可以确定——他在攻击的，是一个和他那更阴暗、更狭隘、更暴虐的观念相左的美国。而在Pulse里的人，正是美国的国民。更准确地说，他们是国家的象征。Pulse是他们的庇护所。在Pulse里，他们找到了欢愉。而他认为他们不配享有这两样东西。他用突击步枪和子弹来交流他的想法。
The Islamic State and its ilk are brutal to gay people, whom they treat in unthinkable ways. They throw gay people from rooftops. The footage is posted online. It’s bloodcurdling, but it’s not unique. In countries throughout the world, to be gay is to be in mortal danger. To embrace love is to court death.
伊斯兰国及其同类对同性恋人群十分残暴，用难以置信的方式对待他们。他们把同性恋者从楼顶扔下。把视频放在网上。那场面让人毛骨悚然，但这种情况并不罕见。在世界上许多国家，身为同性恋者是要面临死亡威胁的。投身爱情等于走向死亡。
That’s crucial context for what happened in Orlando, and Orlando is an understandable prompt for questions about our own degrees of inclusion and fairness and whether we do all that we should to keep L.G.B.T. people safe. We don’t.
这是思考奥兰多事件的一个关键语境，奥兰多适时地向我们提出一些问题，我们在多大程度上做到了包容和公平，我们有没有尽我们的全力确保LGBT人群的安全。我们没有。
As Florida Gov. Rick Scott spoke publicly of his heartache on Sunday, I saw complaints on social media about his own lack of support for issues important to L.G.B.T. people. Those complaints have merit.
当佛罗里达州长里克·斯科特(Rick Scott)在周日公开表达自己的心痛之时，我在社交媒体上看到有人在表达对他的不满，认为他在一些和LGBT人士相关的重要问题上没有给予足够的支持。这些指责不无道理。
But this isn’t a moment for identity politics, which could muddle the significance of the carnage. Yes, that carnage exposed the special vulnerability of L.G.B.T. Americans to violent extremists, recommending special levels of security.
然而，现在不是谈身份政治的时候，因为它会妨碍我们认识这场大屠杀的重要影响。是的，屠杀表明美国LGBT人群格外容易遭到极端暴力的侵袭，有必要对他们进行特别的保护。
And there was a frightening coda to it on the opposite coast, in the Los Angeles area, where a man with an arsenal of weapons was arrested en route to gay pride festivities.
而且在事件进入尾声之时，大陆另一侧还发生了一桩可怕的事，一名男子在洛杉矶地区被逮捕，他持有大量武器，正要前往同志骄傲活动举办地。
But the threat isn’t only to L.G.B.T. Americans, as past acts of terror have shown and as everyone today must recognize. All Americans are under attack, and not exclusively because of whom we drink, dance or sleep with, but because of our bedrock belief that we should not be subservient to any one ideology or any one religion. That offends and inflames the zealots of the world.
然而并不是只有美国LGBT人群面临威胁，这一点我们在以往的恐怖事件中可以看到，也是今天每一个人都意识到的。所有美国人都是袭击的目标，这并非只是因为我们在和什么样的人喝酒、跳舞或睡觉，而是因为我们的根本信念：我们不会向某一种意识形态或某一种宗教低头。而这让全世界的狂热分子暴跳如雷。
Often our politicians can’t find their voices. Sometimes their words are poignantly right.
我们的政治人士时常会失去自己的声音。而有时他们的言语道出了沉痛的真相。
President Obama, speaking about the victims on Sunday afternoon, said: “The place where they were attacked is more than a nightclub. It is a place of solidarity and empowerment where people have come together to raise awareness, to speak their minds and to advocate for their civil rights. So this is a sobering reminder that attacks on any American, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation, is an attack on all of us and on the fundamental values of equality and dignity that define us as a country.”
奥巴马总统在周日下午谈及此次事件的遇害者：“他们攻击的地方不只是一间夜店。那是一处团结与赋权的地方，他们在那里汇合，提升人们的意识，说出自己的想法，倡导他们的公民权利。因此我们清醒地看到，针对任何一个美国人的攻击，无论他的种族、族群、宗教或性取向为何，都是在针对我们所有人，针对平等与尊严，那些定义了我们这个国家的基本价值观。”
And this was Eric Garcetti, the Los Angeles mayor, at a news conference: “Today we know that we are targeted as Americans, because this is a society where we love broadly and openly, because we have Jews and Christians and Muslims and atheists and Buddhists marching together, because we are white, black, brown, Asian, Native American. The whole spectrum and every hue and every culture is here.”
还有洛杉矶市长埃里克·加希提(Eric Garcetti)，他在新闻发布会上说：“今天我们看到，我们遭到攻击是因为我们是美国人，因为这是一个人可以宽宏而开放地去爱的社会，因为犹太人、基督徒、穆斯林、无神论者和佛教徒会在这里一起游行，因为这里有白色、黑色、棕色人种，有亚裔，有美洲原住民。所有类型，每一种肤色，每一种文化，都聚集在这里。”
It was a perfect description of the country I love.
这番话完美描述了一个我热爱的美国。
And it was an equally perfect description of what the Orlando gunman couldn’t bear.
同时，它也完美描述了让奥兰多枪手咬牙切齿的东西。