AMSTERDAM — About 6:30 weekday mornings, throngs of bicycles, with a smattering of motor scooters and pedestrians, pour off the ferries that carry bikers and other passengers free of charge across the IJ (pronounced “eye”) harbor, clogging the streets and causing traffic jams down behind Amsterdam’s main train station.
阿姆斯特丹——在每个工作日早晨的6点30分，搭乘免费渡轮的骑自行车者和其他乘客穿越艾湾到达码头，成群的自行车，夹杂着少数小型摩托车和行人，从渡轮上涌出。他们阻塞街道，并在阿姆斯特丹主要火车站后的道路上引发交通拥堵。
“In the afternoon it’s even more,” moaned Erwin Schoof, a metalworker in his 20s who lives in the canal-laced center of town and battles the chaos daily to cross to his job.
“下午人会更多，”埃尔温·朔夫(Erwin Schoof)抱怨道。他是一名二十几岁的金属工人，生活在运河纵横的市中心，在每天上班的路上参加这场混战。
Willem van Heijningen, a railway official responsible for bikes around the station, said, “It’s not a war zone, but it’s the next thing to it.”
威廉·范海宁根(Willem van Heijningen)是一名负责火车站附近自行车的铁路官员，他说，“这里虽然不是战场，但也差不多。”
This clogged stream of cyclists is just one of many in a city as renowned for bikes as Los Angeles is for automobiles or Venice for gondolas. Cyclists young and old pedal through narrow lanes and along canals. Mothers and fathers balance toddlers in spacious wooden boxes affixed to their bikes, ferrying them to school or day care. Carpenters carry tools and supplies in similar contraptions and electricians their cables. Few wear helmets. Increasingly, some are saying what was simply unthinkable just a few years ago: There are too many bikes.
这个骑自行车者形成的拥堵流，只不过是这座城市中众多自行车流中的一股。阿姆斯特丹以自行车而闻名，正如洛杉矶以汽车闻名，威尼斯以贡多拉闻名。骑自行车的人有年轻的、也有老的，他们在狭窄的街道中或运河边穿梭。父亲和母亲们给自行车装上宽大的木箱，把坐在箱子里的孩子送往学校或日托所。木工用类似的装备携带他们的工具和物资，电工则携带着电缆。没几个人戴头盔。越来越多的人在说出几年前简直无法想象的话：自行车太多了。
While cities like New York struggle to get people onto bikes, Amsterdam is trying to keep its hordes of bikes under control. In a city of 800,000, there are 880,000 bicycles, the government estimates, four times the number of cars. In the past two decades, travel by bike has grown by 40 percent so that now about 32 percent of all trips within the city are by bike, compared with 22 percent by car.
虽然纽约等城市仍在努力让人们骑自行车，但阿姆斯特丹却在竭力控制其成群结队的自行车。在这个80万人口的城市中，据政府估计有88万辆自行车，是汽车数量的4倍。在过去20年里，骑自行车出行增长了大约40%，使如今的市内出行中约32%是骑自行车的，相比之下，开汽车出行只占22%。
Applauding this accomplishment, a Danish urban planning consultancy, Copenhagenize Design, which publishes an annual list of the 20 most bike-friendly cities, placed Amsterdam in first place this year, as it has frequently in the past. (The list consists mostly of European cities, though Tokyo; Nagoya, Japan; and Rio de Janeiro made the cut. Montreal is the only North American city included.)
丹麦的城市规划咨询机构Copenhagenize Design盛赞了这一成就，把阿姆斯特丹列于其今年发布的年度最适合骑车的20个城市之首；过去，阿姆斯特丹也经常位于这个名单的首位。名单上列出的大多数是欧洲城市，不过日本的东京和名古屋、以及里约热内卢也榜上有名。蒙特利尔是其中唯一的北美城市。
But many Amsterdamers say it is not so much the traffic jams like those at the morning ferry that annoy them most, but the problem of where to park their bikes once they get to where they’re going, in a city with almost more water than paved surfaces.
但许多阿姆斯特丹人说，像早间轮渡那样的交通堵塞并不是最恼人的问题，最大的问题是到达目的地之后在哪里停车，这座城市中水的面积几乎大于路的面积。
“Just look at this place!” said Xem Smit, 22, who for the past year has struggled to maintain order at a municipal bike parking lot in the heart of town, waving a hand at bikes chained to lampposts, benches, trees and almost any other permanent object across a tree-lined square between the stock market and the big De Bijenkorf department store.
“看看这个地方！”22岁的塞姆·斯米特(Xem Smit)说。在过去一年里，他一直努力在市中心的一座市政自行车停车场维持秩序，他边说边挥手指向锁在灯柱、长椅、树木以及几乎所有其他永久性物体上的自行车，它们停放在股票市场和庞大的De Bijenkorf百货商场之间的林荫广场上。
“I hear complaints all the time,” Mr. Smit said. “It’s not bike friendly — no!” His tiny, fenced-in parking lot has space officially for 140 bikes, but he routinely crams in more. “My record is 152,” he said.
“我每时每刻都听到人们在抱怨，”斯米特说。“这里对自行车不友好，不友好！”他窄小的围栏自行车停车场的设计能力是140辆，但他常常需要塞进去更多的。他说，“我的记录是152辆。”
Mr. Smit’s problem is largely what keeps Thomas Koorn, of Amsterdam’s Transport and Traffic Department, awake at night. “We have a real parking issue,” he said in a conference room overlooking the IJ. Over the next two decades, Mr. Koorn said, the city will invest $135 million to improve the biking infrastructure, including the creation of 38,000 bike parking racks “in the hot spots.”
斯米特的问题在很大程度上也是让阿姆斯特丹运输交通部门的托马斯·科恩(Thomas Koorn)彻夜不眠的问题。“我们这里停自行车确实成问题，”他在一间俯瞰艾湾的办公室里说。科恩说，在未来的二十年里，这座城市将投资1.35亿美元(约合8.3亿人民币)来改善自行车的基础设施，包括在“热点地区”设立3.8万个自行车停车架。
“We don’t think there’s a crisis; we want to keep it attractive,” Mr. Koorn said. He paused, then added, “You cannot imagine if all this traffic were cars.”
“我们不认为有危机；我们希望保持骑车的吸引力，”科恩说。他停顿了一下，然后补充说，“如果所有这些出行都用汽车，那可真是无法想象的。”
Part of the problem is that many Amsterdamers are not satisfied with just one bike, and often do not care where they leave those they have. “I have three,” said Timo Klein, 23, an economics student, picking one of his out from a scattering of dozens of bikes on the central Dam Square, some still usable, others clearly wrecks. “If one breaks down, I don’t have to use public transportation,” like buses or trams, which in the city’s narrow, clogged roadways are slower than bikes.
问题的部分原因是，许多阿姆斯特丹人不满意于仅拥有一辆自行车，而且通常不关心他们把自己的车停放在哪里了。23岁的蒂莫·克莱因(Timo Klein)是一名经济专业学生，他正在从市中心达姆广场停放着的几十辆自行车中拖出自己的那辆，停在那里的自行车中一些显然能骑，而另一些明显快散架了。他说，“我有3辆自行车。如果其中一辆坏了，我也无需去乘坐公共交通。”在这个城市狭窄堵塞的道路上，乘公共汽车或有轨电车比骑自行车还慢。
With so many bikes around, one of the more powerful lobbies in town is the Fietsersbond, or Cyclists’ Union, with its 4,000 local members. Musing over why Amsterdamers are so keen on bikes, Michèl Post, a union official, attributed it to the country’s density.
这里的自行车如此之多，该市最强大的游说团体之一是自行车手联盟(Fietsersbond)就不足为奇了，该联盟拥有4000名本地成员。想法解释阿姆斯特丹人为什么如此热衷于自行车时，该联盟的一名官员米歇尔·波斯特(Michèl Post)把原因归于该国的人口密度。
“Our country is small,” said Mr. Post, who rides seven miles every day to catch a train into the heart of Amsterdam. “And the whole country is flat, and the climate is not extreme. We’re really lucky.”
“我们是个小国，”波斯特说。他每天骑车7英里（约合11公里）去赶开往阿姆斯特丹市中心的一趟火车。他说，“整个国家地势平坦，气候也不极端。我们实在很幸运。”
Yet even bike advocates like Mr. Post concede there are challenges. One is a recent proliferation of motor scooters, some of which are allowed to use bike paths, frequently causing accidents. While the noisy scooters account for only 3 percent of traffic, they are responsible for 16 percent of traffic accidents. “The city cannot cope,” he said. “We need a change.”
然而即便是波斯特这样的自行车倡导人士也承认他们面临着挑战。其中之一是最近小型摩托车的增加，有些小型摩托车被允许使用自行车道，常常造成事故。尽管这些噪声很大的小摩托车仅占了3%的交通，它们却造成了交通事故中的16%。他说，“城市对付不了了，我们需要改变。”
But the greatest challenge is the wild parking of bikes, Mr. Post acknowledged. “There are too many bikes,” he said. “At train stations, shopping malls, in residential areas, everywhere there are more bikes than bike racks.”
不过，波斯特承认，最大的挑战是自行车乱停乱放。“自行车太多了，”他说。“火车站、购物中心、居民区，到处都有比停车架更多的自行车。”
Still, no one dreams of limiting bike use. Indeed, when the renowned Rijksmuseum, the city’s crown jewel, reopened in April after a 10-year, $500 million renovation, biking lobbyists celebrated a victory when guards removed barriers to a bicycle passageway through the center of the museum. The museum’s director, Wim Pijbes, had sought to eliminate the bike route and put the museum’s main entrance on the site, routing bikers around the building to protect pedestrians. But the Cyclists’ Union, backed by a petition that showed overwhelming popular support for the bike route, carried the day.
尽管如此，没人想过要限制自行车的使用。的确，在经历了耗资5亿美元的10年翻修之后，阿姆斯特丹市王冠上的明珠——著名的国立博物馆4月份重新开放时，自行车游说人士也庆祝了一次胜利：博物馆警卫搬开了挡在通过博物馆中心的自行车道上的障碍物。博物馆馆长维姆·彼布斯(Wim Pijbes)曾试图取消穿过博物馆的自行车道，在那里设置博物馆的主要入口，让骑车者绕过建筑而行，以保护行人。但自行车联盟在一份请愿书的支持下，获得了胜利，请愿书显示绝大多数人支持保留自行车道。
“The lobby certainly helped,” said Mr. Koorn, the city transportation official.
“游说肯定帮了大忙，”该市的运输官员科恩说。