An Australian cyclist who tested positive for a performance-enhancing drug has had a potential ban from the sport lifted after the sport’s governing body said he probably consumed the substance accidentally during a race in China.
一名澳大利亚籍自行车赛选手被检出服用了一种提高比赛成绩的药物，不过，在赛事管理机构表示他可能是在中国比赛期间食用了这种物质之后，他面临的禁赛处罚已被取消。
Michael Rogers, an Olympic bronze medalist, was stripped of his victory at the Japan Cup Cycle Road Race in October 2013 after a positive test for clenbuterol. The drug, which increases the rate of fat burning and helps build muscle, is illicitly used by farmers in China and other countries on pigs and cattle to produce leaner meat.
迈克尔·罗杰斯(Michael Rogers)是奥运会铜牌得主；2013年10月，他在日本杯公路自行车赛(Japan Cup Cycle Road Race)中获胜，但却因盐酸克仑特罗（中文又称瘦肉精）检测结果呈阳性被取消了比赛成绩。这种药物能提高脂肪燃烧率，有利于肌肉的形成。它虽然不合法，但中国等国的农民却经常用它来喂猪喂牛，以获得更多瘦肉。
The International Cycling Union, known by its French initials U.C.I., said Wednesday that Rogers’s disqualification in that race would stand but that any further sanctions would be dropped as “there was a significant probability that the presence of clenbuterol may have resulted from the consumption of contaminated meat from China.”
国际自行车联盟（International Cycling Union，其法语简称为UCI）周三表示，取消罗杰斯前述比赛成绩的决定仍然有效，但他不会受到任何进一步的惩罚，因为“很有可能，检出瘦肉精是因为他食用了中国的受污染肉食”。
That declaration means that Rogers will not face a ban from racing. “I am looking forward to getting back to work, competing in the sport I love,” he said in a written statement responding to the decision.
此项声明意味着罗杰斯不会面临禁赛。“我希望回去工作，参与我热爱的这项运动，”他在回应前述决定的书面声明中说。
Rogers, who rides for the Tinkoff-Saxo team, had argued that his positive sample had been the result of something he had eaten during the Tour of Beijing, a stage race just before the Japan Cup.
此前，身为Tinkoff-Saxo队成员的罗杰斯曾辩称，药检呈阳性是因为他在环北京职业公路自行车赛（Tour of Beijing，简称环京赛）期间食用了某种东西。环京赛是在日本杯前夕举行的分段赛。
Clenbuterol has been a recurring problem in China. In 2006, more than 300 people in Shanghai fell ill from eating meat heavily tainted with the substance, which is also known in Chinese as “shou rou jing,” or “lean meat powder.” Three years later, 70 people in the southern city of Guangzhou were sickened after eating pork organs tainted with the drug.
盐酸克仑特罗的问题在中国反复出现。2006年，上海有300多人因食用含有大量瘦肉精的肉而发病。三年后，中国南方城市广州又有70人因为食用被瘦肉精污染的猪肉而生病。
“Given the sheer number of pig farmers located all over the country, each one of them operating on a relatively small scale, I think the use of clenbuterol is virtually inevitable,” Chen Junshi, a professor at the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, told Time magazine in 2011 after Shuanghui Group, China’s largest meat producer, was reported to have sold pork tainted with the substance.
2011年，中国最大的肉制品生产商双汇集团被报道销售含瘦肉精的猪肉后，中国疾病预防控制中心的陈君石教授告诉《时代》杂志(Time)，“鉴于全国各地的养殖户为数众多，单个养殖户的规模又相对较小，我觉得使用瘦肉精几乎是不可避免的。”
During the 2008 Beijing Olympics, organizers went to great lengths to ensure the safety of athletes’ food, even posting guards at farms authorized to supply Olympic cafeterias.
2008年奥运会期间，主办方不遗余力地确保运动员食物的安全，甚至在获准为奥运会自助餐厅供应食物的农场派驻了警卫。
Alberto Contador, the Tour de France winner and Rogers’s teammate, attributed his positive test for clenbuterol in 2010 to a tainted steak from Spain. The Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland, concluded that his claim was not substantiated. Contador, who was stripped of his 2010 Tour de France and 2011 Giro d’Italia victories, returned to racing in August 2012 after he completed a ban on competing.
环法自行车赛(Tour de France)冠军、罗杰斯的队友阿尔伯托·康塔多(Alberto Contador)称，自己2010年瘦肉精检测阳性是因为吃了西班牙的受污染牛排。瑞士国际体育仲裁法庭(Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne)裁定他的说法没有根据。康塔多被取消了2010年环法赛和2011年环意大利自行车赛(Giro d’Italia)的冠军，2012年8月才结束禁赛重返赛场。