It happened each time we drove into one of southeastern Sicily’s hill towns. It could be a village or a big town, run-down or fixed-up, but as we drove uphill toward the historic center, the vision ahead was always roughly the same: a stunning Baroque church, honey-colored or pale white, decorated with columns or curves, angels or Cupids, shells or leaves, urns or shields, sometimes all of the above. A bell tower might be missing or there might be grass growing between the paving stones, but each of those churches exemplified what unfolds all across this corner of Sicily: an exuberant style that played itself out on facades of churches and palazzi in the wake of a devastating earthquake in 1693.
我们驾车探访了西西里岛东南部的几座山城。我发现，有种现象在每个城镇都会发生——也许是个小村庄，也许是个大城市，也许破败不堪，也许经过了修葺；但当我们驱车进入山顶的历史城区时，眼前总会出现一模一样的景观：一座惊艳的巴洛克教堂，颜色或柔蜜或灰白，装饰着圆柱或曲线、天使或丘比特、贝壳或树叶、花瓮或盾牌，有时以上都有。也许教堂上没有钟楼，或者铺路石之间已长出野草，但每座教堂都显示了西西里岛的重要特色：即使在1693年的严重地震之后，仍能从许多教堂和建筑的外立面看到一种华丽和张扬。
Late Sicilian Baroque was a defiant answer to nature’s wrath, an ambitious affirmation of wealth and faith, delivered by an all-powerful local aristocracy. “In Rome, the Baroque was all about the power of the church,” said Nuccio Iacono, a local historian, whom I met for a drink on a February evening in Ragusa Ibla, the old center of Ragusa, near one of the region’s masterpieces, the sumptuous three-tiered Cathedral of St. George, whose construction began in 1738 according to a design by the noted architect Rosario Gagliardi. “Here it is about rebirth.”
西西里地区的晚期巴洛克建筑是对自然之怒充满藐视的回答，对财富和信仰野心勃勃的肯定，表现了当地贵族权势冲天的状态。“在罗马，巴洛克表现的全是教会的权力，”纳西奥·伊尔科诺(Nuccio Iacono)说道。伊尔科诺是当地的历史学家，2月的一个夜晚曾与我在拉古萨老城区的中心拉古萨伊波拉(Ragusa Ibla)一起喝酒。拉古萨伊波拉附近就是西西里的艺术杰作之一——圣乔治天主教堂(Cathedral of St. George)。根据著名建筑师罗萨里奥·加格里亚蒂(Rosario Gagliardi)的一处设计可以看出，这座三层楼的教堂始建于1738年。“而在这里，巴洛克却意味着重生。”
This was my fourth visit to the region. I first discovered the town of Noto, 31 miles from Ragusa Ibla, in the 1980s, when its gorgeous tawny churches and palazzi were crumbling, mostly from neglect. I came back a decade later as a reporter to write an article about the partial collapse in 1996 of Noto’s Cathedral of St. Nicholas, a man-made disaster blamed on the knuckle-headed idea of constructing a concrete roof over the nave.
这是我第四次造访此地。第一次探索拉古萨伊波拉31英里外的小城诺托(Noto)，还是在1980年代。那时候，那些优雅的茶灰色教堂和宫殿潦倒凄凉，几乎无人理睬。十年后我以记者身份又去了一次，目的是采写诺托市那座1996年忽然坍塌了一半的圣尼古拉斯大教堂(Cathedral of St. Nicholas)。那次坍塌是一场人为的灾难，因为当时他们采纳了一个愚蠢的主意，准备在中殿上面加盖一个水泥屋顶。
By the time I returned for a third visit, in 2011, another rebirth was under way: the Noto cathedral, and much of the town’s central district, had been restored. The same was true of many of the churches and palazzi in Ragusa Ibla, and on the narrow streets and seafront facades on Syracuse’s Ortygia Peninsula, two other jewels of Sicilian Baroque.
2011年我第三次造访时，一场重生正在进行之中：诺托的教堂以及市中心的大部分地区都进行了重修。拉古萨伊波拉的教堂和古建筑，以及锡拉库扎市(Syracuse)奥提伽半岛(Ortygia Peninsula)的狭窄街道和临街建筑也一样进行了修缮——这两座古城是西西里巴洛克版图上的另两个重要地点。
Once the domain of old men and cats, squalor and low-level crime, these towns are now bursting with hotels and restaurants. Between visiting architectural gems you can sample the delicious gelato and granita, the Sicilian water-based ice specialty, of which arguably the best can be found at Gelati DiVini in Ragusa Ibla and at Caffè Sicilia in Noto.
一度属于老人、猫咪、垃圾和底层犯罪的小城，如今忽然涌现出众多的酒店和餐馆。在寻访建筑珍宝之余，你可以品尝甜美的意大利冰淇淋和格兰尼塔冰沙(granita)，后者是用西西里本地水做成的一种冰品。据说格兰尼塔冰沙做得最好的两家店，分别是拉古萨伊波拉的Gelati DiVini和诺托城的西西里咖啡馆(Caffè Sicilia)。
During my 2011 visit to Palazzolo Acreide, a small town with a population of about 9,000, I wandered away from the main piazza, past the ethnographic Museum of Antonino Ucelli, which concentrates on Sicilian peasant traditions, and happened upon an intriguing sign for another museum: the brand-new Museum of Noble Traditions.
帕拉佐洛阿克雷德(Palazzolo Acreide)是个人口只有9000人的小城。2011年我去那里的时候，从主广场开始向周边漫步，探访了Museum of Antonino Ucelli博物馆。这家博物馆专注于西西里农民传统，具有重要的人类学意义。随后，我又看到另一家新开博物馆的路牌——贵族传统博物馆(Museum of Noble Traditions)。
The sign said the museum was open but it was not, a familiar Italian paradox. So I went around the corner, where I found Titti Zabert Colombo, busying herself in the gift shop. It turned out she was the person single-handedly responsible for restoring the ruins of the former Palazzo Rizzarelli Spadaro, which once belonged to the illustrious Ruffo di Calabria family, and turning it into the completely restored, bright-blue museum.
指示牌说博物馆已经开张，但事实上并没有——这种矛盾现象在意大利并不罕见。走过街角时，我发现缇蒂·扎博特·科伦坡(Titti Zabert Colombo)正好在礼品店里专注购物。根据我后来得到的资料，正是这位女士，凭借一己之力对之前破败不堪的Palazzo Rizzarelli Spadaro宫殿进行了全面修缮。宫殿以前的主人是赫赫有名的Ruffo di Calabria家族，科伦坡女士将它全面翻修并改造成眼前这家亮蓝色的博物馆。
Signora Zabert, at 71 years old, is a diminutive dynamo, a transplant from northern Italy who has dedicated her life to turning Palazzolo Acreide into a living laboratory of cultural tourism. Her goal is not just the restoration of old buildings — which, besides the Palazzo Rizzarelli Spadaro, include several private houses on a main piazza — but the encouragement of cultural activities and the attraction of foreign investment. “Sicily doesn’t have natural resources, it has culture,” she said to me more than once.
扎博特太太今年71岁，身材娇小，活力四射。来自意大利北部的她多年来致力于将帕拉佐洛阿克雷德建造成一个文化旅游的活体实验室。她的目标不仅仅是修复老房子（当然老房子她也已修复了不少。除了Palazzo Rizzarelli Spadaro宫殿以外，还有广场一带其他好几座私家宅邸），还有促进当地文化活动的繁荣并吸引更多外来投资。“西西里没什么自然资源，但文化资源丰富。”她反复对我说道。
On that first meeting, we walked through the town, where she pointed out the 18th-century Palazzo di Politi, which she wants to turn into a retreat for Nobel Prize winners, and a cluster of medieval houses, nestled on the site of a long-gone castle, with stunning views of the valley, which she hopes to sell to cultured Italians and foreigners. “There are so many possibilities,” she kept telling me. “È giusto? Is it true?”
那是我俩的第一次会面。我们在小镇的街道漫步，边走边聊。她将一座18世纪的Palazzo di Politi宫指给我看，说打算将它改造成一个诺贝尔奖得主使用的度假村。宫殿周边还散落着一些中世纪建筑，附近的山谷风景如画。这些建筑属于一座很久以前就已消失的城堡，她打算将它们卖给有品味的意大利人和外国人。“有太多太多的可能性，”她一遍遍地对我说，“对吧？你同意吧？”
Intrigued by Signora Zabert — or Titti, as she insisted I call her — I returned the next winter, after persuading her to give me a tour of what she calls “Sicilia minore,” or the region’s lesser-known towns. So on a windy night, there I was, back in Palazzolo, where Titti introduced me to a group of friends over a delicious dinner at Lo Scrigno dei Sapori, one of her favorite restaurants. Among the guests were Carlo Scibetta, the mayor of Palazzolo; a father-son team of architects; an English couple who had bought a house in town; and a rare-book expert from the nearby city of Syracuse and his professor wife.
扎博特太太坚持让我叫她“缇蒂”。缇蒂的想法让我深为着迷，于是我就说服她给我发了个邀请，在次年冬天探访此地知名度较低的一些小镇——她把它们叫做“西西里被低估之地”。然后，在一个有风的夜晚我再次来到帕拉佐洛。缇蒂在自己最爱的饭店之一Lo Scrigno dei Sapori将我介绍给一大帮朋友。来宾包括帕拉佐洛市长卡罗·西贝塔(Carlo Scibetta)；由一对父子组成的建筑师团队；一对在该镇买了房的英国夫妇；来自附近锡拉库扎城的一位古籍专家和他当教授的太太。
We started with a feast of local specialties — from baked ricotta with wild fennel and thistle to marmalades made from onions, wild pears and Sicilian blood oranges; arancini (rice balls coated with bread crumbs); a selection of fish antipasti; various pasta dishes and — the pièce de résistance — a local sausage that was the culinary star of the town’s carnival festivities, just then winding down in the main piazza.
我们开始享受当地特色美食，包括搭配野茴香和蓟叶的烤乳清干酪，用洋葱、野梨和西西里血橙做成的果酱，西西里炸饭球（米饭做成的丸子，外面裹着一层面包糠），种类丰富的开胃菜，各种意大利面，以及一种叫做pièce de résistance的当地香肠。这香肠是该城狂欢活动的美食之星，此时不远处的广场上就有一场欢庆。
Mayor Scibetta is justly proud of Palazzolo’s festivals: the highlight is the feast of San Paolo in late June, when the town is festooned with confetti, known as nzaredde, which are shot into the air like fireworks. Mayor Scibetta said the work that goes into creating and carrying the floats keeps the young people of Palazzolo busy at a time when youth unemployment is around 50 percent.
西贝塔市长对帕拉佐洛的节庆相当自豪，其中最耀眼的一个是6月底的圣保罗节，整个小镇都会张灯结彩，并将当地叫做nzaredde的彩纸像焰火一样喷射到高空。西贝塔市长说，当年轻人失业率高达50%左右的时候，节庆需要的各种创造活动和花车游行可以让帕拉佐洛的年轻人有事可做。
“We need projects that make the most of what we have,” Mayor Scibetta said. “But it should be done with the involvement of the community. Otherwise, the people won’t have a stake.”
“我们需要一些项目，来充分利用我们现有的资源。”西贝塔市长说，“但项目应该让整个社区都参与过来，否则人民就无法获益。”
Like so much of Sicily, Palazzolo has benefited from a cultural pile-on. The Greeks left behind a magnificent theater on the top of one hill, known as Akrai; the Normans bequeathed a medieval castle, now in ruins; the late 19th century put a touch of Art Nouveau (known as Liberty in Italy) to the monuments in the cemetery. Outside of town, along the Anapo River, are tombs left behind by an ancient people known as the Siculi; clusters of more than 5,000 tombs can be visited at the nearby Pantalica Necropolis.
与西西里非常相似，帕拉佐洛也有着深厚的文化积淀。希腊人在Akrai山顶留下了一座华丽的剧场；诺曼底人给它馈赠了一座中世纪城堡，尽管现在已成废墟；19世纪晚期又给公墓里的石碑带来一些新艺术（在意大利叫做自由艺术流派）的气息。在小城之外，阿纳波河(Anapo River)沿岸有斯古里人留下的大量坟墓，附近的Pantalica Necropolis墓地也有5000多座坟墓可供游客观光。
The next day, Titti and I set off on a daylong exploration of the region. As we drove, the landscape seemed to change with every curve in the road (in one place, a piece of the road had actually disappeared, washed away by heavy rains the week before).
次日，缇蒂和我进行了一天的探索之旅。我们驾车畅游，每过一个拐角风景似乎都会有所变化（在某个瞬间，有段路甚至消失了，因为上周的暴雨冲毁了路面）。
We dipped down into stark rock-faced valleys that looked like Afghanistan, and then climbed back up toward rolling countryside that looked like England, with fields divided by low stone walls. It wasn’t yet spring, but in places it was already green, spotted with the faint pink of early almond flowers, and gray-green of the olive trees.
我们走进阿富汗一样荒凉的岩石峡谷，接着又爬上英格兰一般山峦起伏的乡村，低矮的石墙将土地分成不同的区块。春天还没有到来，但不少地方已现出新绿，视野中不时出现花期较早的淡粉色杏花和灰绿色的橄榄树。
Buscemi, a tiny town of 1,100 people, was our first stop and, sure enough, we quickly came across a Baroque church — San Antonio di Padua, which, as Baroque churches go, was relatively discreet, with a three-bell belfry on top that looks like a hat. But there were more ahead, including the imposing Mother Church, or Chiesa Madre. We stopped at the church of San Giacomo. There Titti bounded up a side staircase to take in the view of the Anapo Valley below.
人口1100人的小镇布谢米(Buscemi)是我们的第一站。不出所料，我们迅速遇到了一座巴洛克风格的教堂——帕多瓦圣安东尼奥教堂(San Antonio di Padua)。就巴洛克建筑来说，这座教堂算是相对保守的，建筑顶端有个帽子形状的钟楼，里面放有三座钟。接下来的路途中，我们又看到了其他教堂，比如气势壮观的圣母教堂（Mother Church，又名Chiesa Madre）。我们在圣吉亚科莫教堂(San Giacomo)停了下来，缇蒂顺着旁边的楼梯爬到楼顶，欣赏阿纳波河谷(Anapo Valley)风光。
“The spectacle is best from up here,” she proclaimed, and she was right: the view was gorgeous.
“这里看风景是最好的，”她叫道。她说得没错：眼前景观优美无敌。
Mr. Iacono, the historian, later picked up on the same theatrical theme. “Sicilian Baroque is really a set design,” he said. “It’s all on the outside — the light and the shadows, the beautiful and the ugly.”
后来历史学家伊尔科诺(Iacono)先生也谈到了同样的戏剧主题。“西西里的巴洛克其实是一种景观设计，”他说，“一切都一览无余——光与影，美与丑。”
Another town on our route was Ferla, with not one but four magnificent churches posted along the main street, like sentinels. One was San Antonio Abate, with its unusual concave exterior, a missing belfry and raggedy courtyard.
Ferla是我们自驾之旅中停留的另一个小镇，该城主干道旁的教堂不是一座而是四座，看起来仿佛四名哨兵。其中的圣安东尼奥阿巴特教堂(San Antonio Abate)有着罕见的凹面外墙，还有损毁的钟楼和颓败的庭院。
In the countryside, we stopped by various agriturismos, essentially rural B & Bs. They are usually inexpensive, and offer dinner, with locally made wine, olive oils and cheeses. My favorite was Anapama, a small, elegant B & B at the bottom of a steep road in the valley below Palazzolo, with three bedrooms decorated in Indian textiles and rugs from the Caucasus, a swimming pool and breakfast tables beneath persimmon trees.
在乡村地区，我们看到各种风格的乡村旅馆，它们价格通常不高而且管饭，食材都是当地出产的葡萄酒、橄榄油和奶酪。我最喜欢的Anapama是一家优雅的小型旅馆，位于帕拉佐洛下方峡谷里一处陡坡的下方。三间客房装饰精致，有印度风格的纺织品和高加索的地毯，有泳池，屋外的柿子树下还有几张适合吃早饭的餐桌。
The next day, I met up with a friend from Rome, Elisabetta Povoledo, the International Herald Tribune’s Italy correspondent, and headed to Caltagirone, a town of 39,000, perhaps best known not for its 28 churches, but for its yellow and blue ceramics, sold in dozens of stores and on display on the 142 steps of the Scalinata di Santa Maria. It is one of eight Baroque towns in the region — together with Noto, Palazzolo Acreide, Ragusa and Scicli — added to the Unesco list of World Heritage sites in 2002.
次日，我见到了罗马来的朋友、《国际先驱论坛报》驻意大利记者伊丽莎贝塔·帕沃莱多(Elisabetta Povoledo)。接着我们一起去了卡尔塔吉龙(Caltagirone)，一个人口3.9万人的小城。卡尔塔吉龙借以著称的也许不是那里的28座教堂，而是许多商店都有出售、圣玛丽阶梯(Scalinata di Santa Maria)142级台阶都有展示的黄蓝色陶瓷制品。卡尔塔吉龙是西西里8座巴洛克小城之一，其他7座包括诺托、帕拉佐洛阿克雷德、拉古萨、西克里(Scicli)等小镇。2002年，这8座小镇被联合国教科文组织列入世界遗产名录。
We then turned south, to Scicli (pronounced as cheeklee), described by the British art historian Anthony Blunt as “Baroque preserved in aspic.” A prime example is the Palazzo Beneventano, festooned with grotesque faces, some scowling, some howling.
接着我们向南去了西克里。英国艺术史学家安东尼·布朗特(Anthony Blunt)将这座城市称作“肉皮冻里的巴洛克”，其中一个典型范例是Palazzo Beneventano宫，外墙画着各种奇形怪状的人脸，有的愁眉不展，有的咆哮哀鸣。
It was Sunday, which meant that the great church of Sant’ Ignazio was open, and we could catch a glimpse of the extraordinary Madonna of the Militia, whose miraculous appearance in 1091 is said to have saved local Normans from an attack by invading Moors.
那天正好是周日，著名的圣伊纳爵教堂(Sant’ Ignazio)对公众开放，所以我们有幸瞻仰了身世奇崛的雕塑“民兵武装的圣母”(Madonna of the Militia)。雕塑1091年落成，摩尔人入侵的时候曾救了当地诺曼人的命。
A life-size statue of this warrior virgin, decked in armor, with locks of black hair, sits high upon a rearing horse, brandishing a sword. Under the horse’s feet are the figures of two writhing Moors, undoubtedly an uncomfortable sight for visiting North Africans.
这座全副武装的圣母雕像高度与真人无异，她身着铠甲，黑发梳成一缕缕的形状，高高地坐在马背上，手中挥舞着一把宝剑。马儿前脚腾空，脚下踩着摩尔人的手指，摩尔人痛得浑身扭曲。对于北非访客来说，这个场景显然不太舒服。
For our last stop, we took a detour away from the Baroque, to Donnafugata, an eclectic, overwhelmingly 19th-century castle, with a view of the Mediterranean from its mock-Venetian terrace. This was once the domain of Baron Corrado Arezzo, heir of an old Ragusa family, who was so powerful that he redirected the local railroad so that the trains stopped at the gates of his estate.
我们的最后一站多娜佳塔庄园(Donnafugata)并不是巴洛克建筑。这座城堡采用了折中主义的风格，显然属于19世纪。站在仿威尼斯的露台上，可以看到地中海风光。它所在的地方曾是科拉德·阿雷佐公爵(Baron Corrado Arezzo)的物业。科拉德·阿雷佐公爵是拉古萨某个古老家族的后代，当时权力极大，大到可以改变铁路线的程度——他将当地的铁轨改了道，并在自驾庄园门口设了一个车站。
Here, for 8 euros, about $10, you can get a glimpse of the faded glory of the once mighty Sicilian aristocracy. Now the property of the local government, Donnafugata, with its peeling wallpaper and frayed rugs, is a nostalgic reminder of a society that once valued power and beauty in equal measure.
在这里，只需花费8欧元（约10美元），你就能欣赏西西里史上强权贵族消逝的荣光。今日的多娜佳塔庄园变成了当地政府的物业，墙纸已起皮剥落，地毯也磨损了不少，但仍能提醒人们想起那个崇拜权力和美感的时代。
IF YOU GO
实用信息
WHERE TO STAY
住宿
Near Palazzolo Acreide:
帕拉佐洛阿克雷德：
The charming Anapama B & B (39-380-3743773; anapama.it; info@anapama.it) is reachable with help from the owner, who will guide you from the center of Palazzolo to her valley retreat. An ideal location for the hot Sicilian summers, with swimming pool and horses. Rates are 70 euros per couple per night, or $87.50 at $1.25 to the euro; 90 euros in July and August.
美妙的Anapama B & B旅馆(39-380-3743773; anapama.it; info@anapama.it)需要借助主人的指引才能到达。她会带着你，从帕拉佐洛市中心到达位于峡谷的这座度假村。在西西里炎热的盛夏，这里是完美的住宿地点。度假村设有游泳池，还养了几匹马。房费每对夫妇每晚70欧元，根据欧元对美元1.25的汇率约合87.50美元。七月和八月每晚90欧元。
In Ragusa:
拉古萨：
Il Barocco (39-0-932-663-105; ilbarocco.it; info@ilbarocco.it) is right in the heart of Ragusa Ibla, just a stroll away from the main piazza. Rates for a double range from 90 to 125 euros a night; an excellent breakfast, with fruits and pastries, is included.
Il Barocco (39-0-932-663-105; ilbarocco.it; info@ilbarocco.it) 就在拉古萨伊波拉的中心，距离拉古萨伊波拉只有很短的步程。双人房每晚90至125欧元，包括一顿提供多种水果和糕点的丰盛早餐。
In Ortygia, Syracuse:
锡拉库扎奥提伽： 
Hotel Gutkowski (39-0931-465861; guthotel.it) is small, elegant and simple, on the seafront. A double room costs 130 euros.
Hotel Gutkowski酒店(39-0931-465861; guthotel.it)是个优雅简洁的小型酒店，面朝大海。双人房130欧元。
WHERE TO EAT
就餐
In Palazzolo Acreide:
在帕拉佐洛阿克雷德：
Lo Scrigno dei Sapori (Via Maddalena, 50; 39-0931-188-2941; loscrignodeisapori.com) is closed Mondays. Order the degustazione antipasti rustici with a rich offering of local specialties.
Lo Scrigno dei Sapori饭店(Via Maddalena, 50; 39-0931-188-2941;loscrignodeisapori.com)周一不开业。推荐他家的乡村开胃小吃拼盘，包含了数量丰富的当地特产。
Trattoria del Gallo (Via Roma, 228; 39-0931-881334) has good Sicilian fare, fresh ricotta, sausages, olives, at extremely reasonable prices.
Trattoria del Gallo饭店(Via Roma, 228; 39-0931-881334)有量大质优的西西里特产，比如乳清干酪、香肠、橄榄等，价格也非常合算。