KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The police in Malaysia are seeking seven more people in the assassination of the half brother of North Korea’s leader, including four North Koreans who left the country shortly after the killing, a top police official said Sunday.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚警方一名高级官员周日表示，他们正在寻找暗杀朝鲜领导人同父异母哥哥的另外七个人，包括在暗杀发生后不久离开马来西亚的四名朝鲜人。
The announcement came as South Korea publicly accused North Korea of responsibility for killing Kim Jong-nam, the estranged elder brother of Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s supreme leader.
与此同时，韩国也公开指责朝鲜杀害了金正男。金正男是朝鲜最高领导人金正恩的哥哥，两人关系疏远。
At least 11 people, six of them North Korean, have been linked to the plot to kill Mr. Kim, a high-level target whose death in a heavily trafficked area at Kuala Lumpur International Airport — at the hands of two women who poisoned him, according to preliminary accounts — has drawn international scrutiny.
至少有11人涉嫌参与金正男暗杀事件，其中六人是朝鲜人。金正男是一个高级别的暗杀对象，他的死吸引了国际关注，初步调查显示，他是在吉隆坡国际机场一个人流密集的区域被两名女子毒杀的。
Noor Rashid Ibrahim, Malaysia’s deputy inspector-general of police, said at a packed news conference in Kuala Lumpur that it was a “sudden and suspicious death” but that the cause had yet to be determined.
马来西亚警察副总监努尔·拉希德·易卜拉欣(Noor Rashid Ibrahim)在吉隆坡一场座无虚席的新闻发布会上说，这是“突然而可疑的死亡案件”，但原因尚未确定。
He declined to confirm that the victim was Kim Jong-nam, who was using a passport with the name Kim Chol, though the context was clear.
他拒绝证实受害者是金正男，而是使用了其护照上的名字金哲(Kim Chol)，不过情况非常清楚。
Local news accounts said that two women had carried out the attack by injecting him with a poison or wiping his face with it. Mr. Noor Rashid declined to say whether a widely circulated photo of a woman wearing a white T-shirt with the letters “LOL” was one of the two women who had been arrested. The photo, taken from airport security videos, was leaked to local media.
地方新闻报道说，两名女子发起了袭击，向他注射毒药或往他的脸上抹毒药。有一张来自机场监控视频的照片被泄漏给了当地媒体，其中有一个身穿印着“LOL”字样白色T恤的女子，这张照片广为传播，但易卜拉欣拒绝确认她是否就是被逮捕的两名女子之一。
Mr. Noor Rashid also would not comment on claims that the women thought they were taking part in a prank when they are said to have poisoned Mr. Kim at the airport.
有传言说，两名女子以为自己是在机场参与恶搞活动，结果毒杀了金正男。易卜拉欣也拒绝对这种说法予以置评。
In addition to the two women — one from Indonesia and one carrying a Vietnamese passport — the police have arrested a Malaysian man, who is said to be assisting the police, and Ri Jong Chol, 46, a North Korean man who had been living and working in Malaysia.
这两名女子一个来自印度尼西亚，一个持越南护照，除了她们之外，警方还逮捕了一名马来西亚男子，据说他正在配合警方办案；还有一个46岁的朝鲜人李正哲(Ri Jong Chol)，他一直生活在马来西亚生活和工作。
Mr. Noor Rashid identified the four men who fled the country on the day of the attack as North Koreans ranging in age from 33 to 57. They had arrived separately in Malaysia during the two weeks before the killing, he said. None used a diplomatic passport.
易卜拉欣确认了暗杀发生当日逃离该国的四个朝鲜人的身份，他们的年龄从33岁到57岁不等。他表示，在暗杀发生两周前，这些人各自抵达马来西亚。他们都没有使用外交护照。
He gave their names as Ri Ji Hyon, 33; Hong Song Hac, 34; O Jong Gil, 55; and Ri Jae Nam, 57.
这四个人分别是33岁的Ri Ji Hyon、34岁的Hong Song Hac、55岁的O Jong Gil，以及57岁的Ri Jae Nam。
Mr. Noor Rashid declined to say where they were headed when they left Malaysia or to give their current whereabouts. However Channel NewsAsia, citing a senior police official, said the four arrived Friday in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, by way of Jakarta, Indonesia; Dubai, United Arab Emirates; and Vladivostok, Russia.
易卜拉欣拒绝透露他们离开马来西亚后的目的地，也没有提供他们目前的下落。然而亚洲新闻台(Channel NewsAsia)引用警方一名高级官员的话说，这四人途经印度尼西亚雅加达、阿拉伯联合酋长国迪拜和俄罗斯海参崴，周五抵达了朝鲜首都平壤。
Mr. Noor Rashid said the police are seeking three other men whose whereabouts are unknown, including a North Korean identified as Ri Ji U, 30, also known as James.
易卜拉欣说，警方正在寻找另外三名下落不明的男子，其中包括一个名为Ri Ji U的朝鲜人，30岁，英文名叫James。
In Seoul, the South Korean government said that there was no doubt Kim Jong-nam was the victim and that it believed North Korea was responsible.
在首尔，韩国政府表示，受害者毫无疑问就是金正男，他们认为朝鲜应该对此负责。
“Given various information we have and the circumstances, our government is certain that the man murdered was Kim Jong-nam,” said Jeong Joon-hee, a spokesman for the South’s Unification Ministry, at a news briefing after Mr. Noor Rashid identified the North Korean suspects by name.
“从我们获得的各种信息以及相关情况来看，我国政府确信，遇害的就是金正男。”在易卜拉欣确认了朝鲜嫌疑人的名字之后，韩国统一部发言人郑浚熙(Jeong Joon-hee)在一个新闻发布会上说：
“Given that there are five suspects from North Korea, we believe that the North Korean regime masterminded the incident,” he said.
“鉴于有五个嫌疑人来自朝鲜，我们认为是朝鲜政权策划了这一事件，”他说。
Mr. Jeong declined to answer whether South Korea has obtained additional information that led it to conclude that North Korea was to blame for Mr. Kim’s assassination. He said South Korea was obliged not to address that question until Malaysia first announced more details. Mr. Jeong said North Korea had a history of committing “crimes against humanity and terrorist acts.” He added: “Our country and the international community are watching this reckless and atrocious incident closely and with grave concern.”
郑浚熙拒绝回答韩国是否获得了更多信息，才得出了金正男遇刺由朝鲜负责的结论。他说，在马来西亚首先宣布更多的细节之前，韩国不能谈这个问题。他称朝鲜以前就犯下过“危害人类的罪行，有过恐怖主义行为”。他还表示：“我国和国际社会都在密切关切这起胆大妄为的残暴事件。”
Mr. Jeong’s statement marked the first time South Korea has publicly blamed the north for the death. Speaking to lawmakers behind closed doors last week, the country’s intelligence chief, Lee Byung-ho, said that his agency suspected North Korean involvement.
郑浚熙发表的这个声明，是韩国第一次就这起暗杀事情公开指责朝鲜。上周在一个闭门会议中，韩国的情报主管李炳镐（Lee Byung-ho，音）曾说他们怀疑朝鲜参与了暗杀。
Mr. Noor Rashid said the Malaysian police would conduct a thorough investigation and would give the body to Mr. Kim’s next of kin once they have been identified through DNA analysis.
易卜拉欣说，马来西亚警方将进行彻底调查，在用DNA分析确定死者身份后，将把遗体交还给血缘关系最近的亲属。