Pam Sakuda was 55 when she found out she was dying. Shortly after having a tumor removed from her colon, she heard the doctor’s dreaded words: Stage 4; metastatic. Sakuda was given 6 to 14 months to live. Determined to slow her disease’s insidious course, she ran several miles every day, even during her grueling treatment regimens. By nature upbeat, articulate and dignified, Sakuda — who died in November 2006, outlasting everyone’s expectations by living for four years — was alarmed when anxiety and depression came to claim her after she passed the 14-month mark, her days darkening as she grew closer to her biological demise. Norbert Litzinger, Sakuda’s husband, explained it this way: “When you pass your own death sentence by, you start to wonder: When? When? It got to the point where we couldn’t make even the most mundane plans, because we didn’t know if Pam would still be alive at that time — a concert, dinner with friends; would she still be here for that?” When came to claim the couple’s life completely, their anxiety building as they waited for the final day.
在作田帕姆(Pam Sakuda)55岁时，她得知自己时日无多。结肠肿瘤切除术后不久，医生带来了可怕的宣判：4期；转移。作田的生命大约还剩下6至14个月。一心想要减缓不断加剧的病程，她每天跑步数英里，甚至在精疲力竭的治疗期间也没有间断过。作田天性乐观，口齿伶俐，端庄大方，到2006年11月去世时，她顽强地存活了四年，大出所有人的意料。回想当初，在熬过医生预言的那最初的14个月之后，焦虑症和抑郁症接踵而来，像是警示她自己的生命已经到达极限，她也曾感觉整个世界都黑暗一片。作田的丈夫诺伯特·利青格(Norbert Litzinger)这样解释道：“当你的死刑执行期已过，你就会开始犯嘀咕：大限会是何时？何时？到了这个时候，我们甚至连最寻常的计划，比如听场音乐会，与朋友共进晚餐什么的，都不敢轻易制定，因为我们不能确定那时候帕姆是不是还活着；她是不是还能和我们在一起？”在等待“末日”的过程中，他们的焦虑与日俱增，将这对夫妇的生活彻底笼罩在阴影中。
As her fears intensified, Sakuda learned of a study being conducted by Charles Grob, a psychiatrist and researcher at Harbor-U.C.L.A. Medical Center who was administering psilocybin — an active component of magic mushrooms — to end-stage cancer patients to see if it could reduce their fear of death. Twenty-two months before she died, Sakuda became one of Grob’s 12 subjects. When the research was completed in 2008 — (and published in the Archives of General Psychiatry last year) — the results showed that administering psilocybin to terminally ill subjects could be done safely while reducing the subjects’ anxiety and depression about their impending deaths.
随着忧惧情绪的加剧，作田了解到加州大学洛杉矶分校港口医疗中心(Harbor-U.C.L.A. Medical Center)的精神科医生和研究员查尔斯·格罗布(Charles Grob)正在领导一项研究：他们让终末期癌症患者服用裸盖菇素（迷幻菇中的有效成分），并观察它能否减轻这些患者对死亡的恐惧。在作田去世前22个月时，她成为格罗布的12名受试者之一。该研究于2008年完成，并在去年发表于《普通精神病学文献》(Archives of General Psychiatry)上。研究结果显示，身患绝症的受试者使用裸盖菇素具有安全性，同时，该治疗可减少受试者对即将到来的死亡的焦虑和抑郁情绪。
Grob’s interest in the power of psychedelics to mitigate mortality’s sting is not just the obsession of one lone researcher. Dr. John Halpern, head of the Laboratory for Integrative Psychiatry at McLean Hospital in Belmont Mass., a psychiatric training hospital for Harvard Medical School, used MDMA — also known as ecstasy — in an effort to ease end-of-life anxieties in two patients with Stage 4 cancer. And there are two ongoing studies using psilocybin with terminal patients, one at New York University’s medical school, led by Stephen Ross, and another at Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, where Roland Griffiths has administered psilocybin to 22 cancer patients and is aiming for a sample size of 44. “This research is in its very early stages,” Grob told me earlier this month, “but we’re getting consistently good results.”
对致幻剂缓解死亡之苦的神奇力量大感兴趣，并为之痴迷的研究人员并非只有格罗布一人。麦克莱恩医院（McLean Hospital，位于美国马萨诸塞州的贝尔蒙特，是哈佛医学院[Harvard Medical School]的精神病学培训医院）综合精神病学实验室(Laboratory for Integrative Psychiatry)的主管约翰·哈尔彭(John Halpern)博士也曾经尝试使用MDMA（又名摇头丸）来缓解两名4期癌症患者的临终焦虑。另外，还有两项在临终患者中使用裸盖菇素的研究正在进行当中：一项在纽约大学(New York University)医学院，由史蒂芬·罗斯(Stephen Ross)领导；另一项在约翰斯·霍普金斯湾景医学中心(Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center)，罗兰·格里菲思(Roland Griffiths)已经在22名癌症患者身上使用了裸盖菇素，并期望样本可以扩大到44人。“该研究还处于起步阶段，”格罗布在这个月的早些时候告诉我，“但我们一直以来获得的结果都相当喜人。”
Grob and his colleagues are part of a resurgence of scientific interest in the healing power of psychedelics. Michael Mithoefer, for instance, has shown that MDMA is an effective treatment for severe P.T.S.D. Halpern has examined case studies of people with cluster headaches who took LSD and reported their symptoms greatly diminished. And psychedelics have been recently examined as treatment for alcoholism and other addictions.
除了格罗布和他的同事们，还有一些研究人员对致幻剂的治愈能力重新燃起了科学兴趣，并致力于其该疗法的复兴。例如，迈克尔·米索弗(Michael Mithoefer)已经证明，MDMA可以有效地治疗重症创伤后应激障碍(P.T.S.D)。哈尔彭在审查关于丛集性头痛患者服用LSD（一种半人工致幻剂——译注）的病例研究后发现，患者们都报告自己的症状大为减轻。此外，最近人们还对利用致幻剂治疗酒精和其他物质成瘾进行了探讨。
Despite the promise of these investigations, Grob and other end-of-life researchers are careful about the image they cultivate, distancing themselves as much as possible from the 1960s, when psychedelics were embraced by many and used in a host of controversial studies, most famously the psilocybin project run by Timothy Leary. Grob described the rampant drug use that characterized the ’60s as “out of control” and said of his and others’ current research, “We are trying to stay under the radar. We want to be anti-Leary.” Halpern agreed. “We are serious sober scientists,” he told me.
尽管这些研究显示出了诱人的前景，格罗布和临终关怀领域的其他研究人员在展望未来图景时都表现得相当审慎，并尽量与20世纪60年代划清界限——当时有很多人都迷信致幻剂，并将其用于诸多争议性研究，其中最著名的是由蒂莫西·利里(Timothy Leary)主持开展的裸盖菇素项目。格罗布称60年代致幻剂的猖獗使用是一种“失控”，并表示，他和其他人都致力于将他们当前的研究“保持在监控之下”。“我们希望成为利里的反例。”哈尔彭也表示赞同。“我们都是严肃认真的科学家，”他告诉我。
Sakuda’s terminal diagnosis, combined with her otherwise perfect health, made her an ideal subject for Grob’s study. Beginning in January 2005, Grob and his research team gave Sakuda various psychological tests, including the Beck Depression Inventory and the Stai-Y anxiety scale to establish baseline measures of Sakuda’s psychological state and to rule out any severe psychiatric illness. “We wanted psychologically healthy people,” Grob says, “people whose depressions and anxieties are not the result of mental illness” but rather, he explained, a response to a devastating disease.
作田的终末期诊断，加之她在其他方面堪称完全健康，使她成为格罗布理想的研究对象。从2005年1月开始，格罗布和他的研究团队开始对作田进行各种各样的心理测试，包括贝克抑郁量表(Beck Depression Inventory)和状态—特质焦虑量表(Stai-Y anxiety scale)等，以确定作田心理状态的基线指标，并排除所有严重的精神疾病。“我们想要的是心理健康的受试者，”格罗布解释道，“我们希望他们的抑郁和焦虑状态并不是心理疾病的结果”，而是身体病入膏肓导致的心理反应。
Sakuda would take part in two sessions, one with psilocybin, one with niacin, an active placebo that can cause some flushing in the face. The study was double blind, which meant that neither the researchers nor the subjects knew what was in the capsules being administered. On the day of her first session, Sakuda was led into a room that researchers had transformed with flowing fabrics and fresh flowers to help create a soothing environment in an otherwise cold hospital setting. Sakuda swallowed a capsule and lay back on the bed to wait. Grob had invited her — as researchers do with all their subjects — to bring objects from home that had special significance. “These objects often personalize the session room for the volunteer and often prompt the patient to think about loved ones or important life events,” Roland Griffiths, of Johns Hopkins, says.
作田将参与两个方案，其一使用裸盖菇素，另一个方案则使用烟酸（一种有药效的安慰剂[active placebo]，可能会导致面色潮红）。研究采取双盲设计，这就意味着无论研究人员还是受试者都不知道受试者服用的胶囊里面是什么成分。在她第一个疗程开始那天，研究人员把作田带到一个房间。这里已经用鲜花和精美飘逸的织物重新装饰过，以帮助营造出舒适的环境，一扫医院里原先的那种冷冰冰的感觉。作田吞下胶囊，躺回床上，安静地等待。就像研究人员对待所有受试者那样，格罗布请她从家里带来了一些具有特殊意义的物品。“这些物品让治疗室变得个性化，常常可以提示患者去思考深爱的人或者重要的生活事件，”约翰斯·霍普金斯大学的罗兰·格里菲思如是说。
“I think it’s kind of goofy,” Halpern says, “but the thinking is that with the aid of the psychedelic, you may come to see the object in a different light. It may help bring back memories; it promotes introspection, it can be a touchstone, it can be grounding.”
“这好像有点傻气，”哈尔彭说，“但我们的设想是，在迷幻剂的帮助下，你可能会从不同的角度重新审视这些物品。它可以帮助你找回回忆，也促进反思；它可能成为一块试金石，也可能成为你思考的基石。”
Sakuda brought a few pictures of loved ones, which, Grob recalled, she clutched in her hands as she lay back on the bed. By her side were Grob and one of his research assistants, both of whom stayed with the subjects for the six-to-seven-hour treatment session. Sakuda knew that there would be time set aside in the days and weeks following when she would meet with Grob and his team to process what would happen in that room. Black eyeshades were draped over Sakuda’s face, encouraging her to look inward. She was given headphones. Music was piped in: the sounds of rivers rushing, sweet staccatos, deep drumming. Each hour, Grob and his staff checked in with Sakuda, as they did with every subject, asking if all was O.K. and taking her blood pressure. At one point, Grob observed that Sakuda, with the eyeshades draped over her face, began to cry. Later on, Sakuda would reveal to Grob that the source of her tears was a keen empathetic understanding of what her spouse, Norbert, would feel when she died.
格罗布回忆说，作田带来了几张亲人的照片，她躺在床上时还将它们抓在手中。格罗布和他的一名研究助理留在她身边，在为期六到七个小时的疗程中，他们都全程守护。作田知道，在接下来的数日或数周中，她将需要安排时间与格罗布和他的团队会面，并一同经历在治疗室中将发生的一切。黑色的眼罩盖住了作田的脸，鼓励她望向黑暗深处。她还戴上了耳机。音乐随之涌入：河水奔流的声音、甜美的断奏、深沉的鼓声。每个小时，格罗布和他的工作人员都会对作田进行检查——就像他们对每一位受试者所做的那样，询问是否一切都好，并为她测量血压。在其中一次检查中，格罗布发现作田戴着眼罩哭泣起来。后来，作田向格罗布透露，因为她感同身受地体会到当她死去时她的丈夫诺伯特会有怎样的感受，不禁潸然泪下。
Grob’s setup — the eyeshades, the objects, the mystical music, the floral aromas and flowing fabrics — was drawn from the work of Stanislav Grof, a psychiatrist born in Prague and a father of the study of psychedelic medicine for the dying. In the mid-’60s — before words like “acid” and “bong” and “Deadhead” transformed the American landscape, at a time when psychedelics were not illegal because most people didn’t know what they were and thus had no urge to ingest them — Grof began giving the drug to cancer patients at the Spring Grove State Hospital near Baltimore and documenting their effects.
格罗布的这些巧思布置——眼罩啦、怀旧物品啦、充满神秘感的音乐、花香以及飘逸的装饰织物啦，都取材于由斯坦尼斯拉夫·格罗夫（Stanislav Grof，出生于布拉格的一名精神科医生，濒死患者迷幻药物研究之父）的工作。60年代中期，“acid”（致幻剂的俚称——译注）、“bong”（软性毒品俚称）以及“Deadhead”（感恩至死乐队的死忠歌迷）之类的字眼儿还没有改变美国的面貌，致幻剂也还不是非法药品——因为大多数人不知道它们是什么，自然就不会迫不及待地想去大嗑一通。在巴尔的摩附近的春天树丛州立医院(Spring Grove State Hospital)里，格罗夫开始在癌症患者身上使用致幻剂，并记录它们产生的效果。
Grof kept careful notes of his many psychedelic sessions, and in his various papers and books derived from those sessions, he described cancer patients clenched with fear who, under the influence of LSD or DPT, experienced relief from the terror of dying — and not just during their psychedelic sessions but for weeks and months afterward. Grof continued his investigations into psychedelics for the dying until the culture caught up with him — the recreational use of drugs and the reaction against them leading to harsh antidrug laws. (Richard Nixon famously called Timothy Leary “the most dangerous man in America.”) Financing for psychedelic studies dried up, and Grof turned his attention to developing alternative methods of accessing higher states of consciousness. It is only now, decades later, that Grob and a handful of his fellow scientists feel they can re-examine Grof’s methods and outcomes without risking their reputations.
格罗夫对众多致幻剂疗程均进行了详细的记录，在他根据这些疗程撰写的各种论文和书籍著作中，他这样描述道：在LSD或DPT（译注：均为迷幻剂）的影响下，癌症患者从濒死的恐怖中得到了解脱——这种效果不仅限于致幻剂疗程期间，在其后的数周和数个月中依然持续。格罗夫继续就致幻剂在垂危患者中的作用进行研究，直到社会文化的发展迫使实验终止——为了追求快感而吸食致幻剂导致了禁毒运动的蓬勃发展以及禁毒法规的诞生。（理查德·尼克松[Richard Nixon]在一句名言中称蒂莫西·利里是“美国最危险的人物。”）对致幻剂研究的资助日渐枯竭，格罗夫也把自己的注意力转向了开发可连接较高级别意识状态的替代性方法。直到几十年后的今天，格罗布和他的几个同事方才感到或许他们可以重新审视格罗夫的方法和成果，而无需担心危及自己的声誉。
Norbert Litzinger remembers picking up his wife from the medical center after her first session and seeing that this deeply distressed woman was now “glowing from the inside out.” Before Pam Sakuda died, she described her psilocybin experience on video: “I felt this lump of emotions welling up . . . almost like an entity,” Sakuda said, as she spoke straight into the camera. “I started to cry. . . . Everything was concentrated and came welling up and then . . . it started to dissipate, and I started to look at it differently. . . . I began to realize that all of this negative fear and guilt was such a hindrance . . . to making the most of and enjoying the healthy time that I’m having.” Sakuda went on to explain that, under the influence of the psilocybin, she came to a very visceral understanding that there was a present, a now, and that it was hers to have.
诺伯特·利青格还记得在第一个疗程后，他从医疗中心接回妻子，惊异地发现这个曾经深深苦恼的女人现在“仿佛由内而外透出光彩。”在作田帕姆去世之前，她曾在视频中这样形容她服用裸盖菇素的体验：“我觉得万种情绪涌上心头……它们就像是有形的东西，”作田说，目光直视镜头。“我开始哭泣……所有的一切先是变得鲜明集中，不断浮现，然后……它们渐渐烟消云散，在我眼里，一切都开始变得不一样……我开始意识到，所有这些消极的恐惧和愧疚都不过是累赘……妨碍我充分利用和享受我仅剩下的健康时光。”作田继续解释：在裸盖菇素的作用下，她发自内心地认识到，“当下”是她拥有的一件最美好的礼物。
Two weeks after Sakuda’s psilocybin session, Grob readministered the depression and anxiety assessments. Over all among his subjects, he found that their scores on the anxiety scale at one and three months after treatment “demonstrated a sustained reduction in anxiety,” the researchers wrote in The Archives of General Psychiatry. They also found that their subjects’ scores on the Beck Depression Inventory dropped significantly at the six-month follow-up. “The dose of psilocybin that we gave our subjects was relatively low in comparison to the doses in Stanislav Grof’s studies,” Grob told me. “Nevertheless, and even with this modest dose, it appears the drug can relieve the angst and fear of the dying.”
在作田接受裸盖菇素疗程两周后，格罗布再度对她进行了抑郁和焦虑评估。总体而言，所有受试者在治疗后一个月和三个月时的焦虑量表评分“均显示焦虑程度持续降低”，研究人员在《普通精神病学文献》中写道。他们还发现，在6个月的随访时，受试者们的贝克抑郁量表评分显著下降。“与斯坦尼斯拉夫·格罗夫的研究相比，我们给予受试者的裸盖菇素剂量相对较低，”格罗布告诉我。“然而，即使在这样适中的剂量下，它依然足以缓解濒死的沮丧和恐惧。”
Lauri Reamer is a 48-year-old survivor of adult-onset leukemia. Before the leukemia, she was an anesthesiologist and a committed agnostic who believed in “validity” and “reliability,” the scientific method her route to truth. Reamer recalls the morning when all that changed, when, utterly depleted, she bumped her leg on a railing and saw a bruise rush up, livid on her pale flesh; it was then she knew something was terribly wrong. After that came the diagnosis, the bone-marrow biopsies, the terrible trek toward a recovery that was tentative at best. “I believed I was going to die,” Reamer told me.
劳里·雷默(Lauri Reamer)今年48岁，是成人发病白血病的一名幸存者。在患白血病之前，她是个麻醉师，也是忠实的不可知论者，她只认可“有效性”和“可靠性”，这是她寻求真理的科学方法。雷默回忆起那个将一切都天翻地覆的早晨，她疲惫不堪，浑身脱力，她的腿撞到栏杆，苍白的肌肤上现出一片乌青的瘀伤；这时她意识到什么事情不对劲，非常不对劲。接下来是诊断和骨髓活检，她在通向康复的道路上艰难跋涉，前途未卜。“我以为我会死去，”雷默告诉我。
Reamer made it through the leukemia — or, rather, she went into remission — but the illness and the brutal bone-marrow treatments she underwent left a deep mental scar, a profound fear that the cancer would return made it difficult to experience any joy in life. Her illness was lurking around every corner, waiting to haul her away. “When I was near death, I wasn’t so afraid of it,” Reamer said, “but once I went into remission, well, I had an intense fear and anxiety around relapse and death.”
雷默从白血病的魔爪下逃过一劫——或者，准确地说，她进入了缓解期——但疾病和曾经接受的那些难以忍受的骨髓治疗给她留下了深刻的心灵创伤和深重的恐惧。总害怕着不知道哪一天癌症会卷土重来，这让她难以再去享受生活中的任何喜悦。疾病潜伏在每一个角落，等待着将她拖入深渊。“在濒临死亡时，我并不怎么害怕，”雷默说，“但是在进入缓解期后，我反而对复发和死亡产生了强烈的恐惧和焦虑。”
It was in the midst of this fear that, one day in May 2010, Reamer learned about Griffiths’s study at Johns Hopkins. For years, Griffiths had been studying the effects of psilocybin on healthy volunteers. He wanted to see if particular doses of the drug could induce mystical states similar to naturally occurring ones: think Joan of Arc or Paul on the road to Damascus. Griffiths says that he and his research team found an ideal range of dosage levels — 20 to 30 milligrams of psilocybin — that not only reliably stimulated “mystical insights” but also elicited “sustained positive changes in attitude, mood and behavior” in the study volunteers. Specifically, when Griffiths administered a psychological test called the Death Transcendance Scale at the 1- and 14-month follow-up, he saw subjects’ ratings rise on statements like “Death is never just an ending but part of a process” and “My death does not end my personal existence.”
在这样的情绪下，2010年5月的一天，雷默了解到格里菲思在约翰斯·霍普金斯大学进行的研究。多年来，格里菲斯一直在研究裸盖菇素对健康志愿者的效应。他希望弄清楚特定剂量的药物能否人为地引发神秘状态，就像圣女贞德(Joan of Arc)以及圣保罗在去大马士革的路上发生的皈依(Paul on the road to Damascus)那样。格里菲思表示，他和他的研究团队已经确定了理想的剂量范围——20至30毫克的裸盖菇素不仅可以有效地激发“神启状态”，还可引起研究志愿者的“态度、情绪和行为发生持续而积极的变化”。具体来说，格里菲思在随访的第1个月和第14个月分别进行了名为“死亡超越量表(Death Transcendance Scale)”的心理测试，然后他发现，受试者对诸如“死亡从来不是最后的结局，它只是人生过程的一部分”以及“我的死亡并不代表我这个人就此不复存在”此类陈述的认可程度有所增加。
“After transcendent experiences, people often have much less fear of death,” Griffiths says. Fourteen months after participating in a psilocybin study that was published in The Journal of Psychopharmacology last year, 94 percent of subjects said that it was one of the five most meaningful experiences of their lives; 39 percent said that it was the most meaningful experience.
“在超脱自然的经历后，人们对死亡的恐惧往往大为减少，”格里菲思指出。在参与裸盖菇素研究（该研究去年发表在《心理药理学杂志》[Journal of Psychopharmacology]上）14个月后，94%的受试者表示这是他们生命中最有意义的五个经历之一；有39%认为这是最有意义的经历。
Wondering whether he could see the same shifts in attitude in terminally ill patients, he designed a study that gave subjects a high dose of psilocybin (higher than Grob had given) in one session and a dose that varied from subject to subject in a second session. Because the study is continuing, Griffiths did not want to discuss the precise amounts of the drug given, but said that “dose selection in the cancer study is informed by what we have learned in the prior studies.”
格里菲思很好奇在绝症患者中是否也会出现同样的态度转变，于是设计了一项研究，在一个疗程中给予受试者大剂量的裸盖菇素（比格罗布使用的剂量要高），并在第二个疗程中分别给予每个受试者不同的剂量。由于该研究还在继续，他不愿意详述他所使用的确切剂量，但他指出，“既往的研究为我们选择癌症研究中的剂量提供了信息。”
At the end of September 2010, Lauri Reamer took her first dose of psilocybin. “I mostly just cried through that session,” she says. Three weeks later, she went back to Johns Hopkins for her second dose. She remembers a lovely room with a large plush couch. Griffiths entered and wished her well. Reamer had pictures of her children and items that reminded her of her recently deceased father, and after swallowing the psilocybin capsule, Reamer sat with two study coordinators and looked at the memorabilia. She talked about what each item meant to her, waiting for the drug to take effect, assessing her own internal state. “And then it happened,” she told me. “I was at first sitting up on the couch and talking about my daughter’s baby blanket, which I’d brought with me, and then I went supine. They dimmed the lights. I got dark eyeshades. They put headphones on me, and music started pouring into my ears. Some dark opera. Some choral music. Some mystical music. There was a bowl of grapes; they were big juicy grapes,” Reamer says, and she remembers the sweetness, the freshness, the tiny seeds embedded in the gel.
2010年9月底，劳里·雷默接受了第一剂裸盖菇素。“整个疗程我几乎一直在哭，”她说。三周后，她回到约翰斯·霍普金斯大学接受第二剂治疗。她回忆起那是一个很可爱的房间，有着大大的毛绒沙发。格里菲思走进来，并向她问好。雷默带来了孩子们的照片以及供她怀念刚刚去世的父亲的一些物品。在吞下裸盖菇素胶囊后，雷默与两名研究协调人员一起坐下来翻看这些纪念品。她讲述起每件物品对她的意义，等待药物生效，并评估自己的内心状态。“然后一切就那么自然而然地发生了，”她告诉我。“我先是坐在沙发上谈论带过来的女儿的婴儿毯，然后又仰卧下来。他们把灯光调暗，并给了我遮光的眼罩。我戴上耳机，音乐开始涌进我的耳朵。有时候是黑暗歌剧，有时候是合唱音乐，有时候是神秘风格的音乐。还有一碗葡萄；那是些个大又多汁的葡萄，”雷默说，她还记得那种甜美和清新，以及嵌入在胶质果肉中的小小的种子。
Once the drug took effect, Reamer lay there and rode the music’s dips and peaks. Reamer said that her mind became like a series of rooms, and she could go in and out of these rooms with remarkable ease. In one room there was the grief her father experienced when Reamer got leukemia. In another, her mother’s grief, and in another, her children’s. In yet another room was her father’s perspective on raising her. “I was able to see things through his eyes and through my mother’s eyes and through my children’s eyes; I was able to see what it had been like for them when I was so sick.”
药物一生效，雷默就躺在那里，思绪随着音乐起伏。雷默说，她的心好像变成了一个个房间，任由她轻而易举地出入。一个房间里放着当她患上白血病时，她父亲经受的悲痛。还有两个房间里分别放着她母亲和孩子们的悲痛。再打开一个房间，她父亲抚养她的点点滴滴扑面而来。“我觉得我可以透过他的眼睛、母亲的眼睛以及孩子们的眼睛来看世界；我深切地体会到当我沉疴难起时他们是怎样的感觉。”
Reamer took the psilocybin at about 9 a.m., and its effects lasted until about 4 p.m. That night at home, she slept better than she had in a long time. The darkness finally stopped scaring her, and she was willing to go under, not because she knew she would come back up but because “under” was not as frightening. Why she was less afraid to die is hard for her to explain. “I now have the distinct sense that there’s so much more,” she says, “so many different states of being. I have the sense that death is not the end but just part of a process, a way of moving into a different sphere, a different way of being.”
雷默于上午9点左右服用了裸盖菇素，其效果一直持续到下午4点前后。那天夜里回到家，她睡得比之前很长一段时间都要好。黑暗终于放弃继续恐吓她，她愿意放心地让自己沉睡下去——不是因为她知道自己必将醒来，而是因为“沉睡”本身已经不再可怕。她自己也解释不清为什么她不再那么害怕死亡。“我现在有了焕然一新的感觉，”她说，“我清楚地意识到，原来‘存在’可以有这么多不同的方式。死亡并不代表结束，它是一个更为深远的过程中的一部分，是通往另一个截然不同的世界、另一种存在状态的必由之路。”
After Reamer’s psilocybin experience, she separated from her husband. Eventually, she stopped practicing medicine. She started regularly meditating. She bought a house. “I read somewhere that, with my kind of leukemia, even if I stay in remission, the most I have left is 15 or 20 years. So that’s my sentence. But after I die, well, there could be a next phase. I believe that now.”
在雷默体验过裸盖菇素后，她与丈夫分居，并最终停止了行医。她开始有规律地进行禅修冥想，还买了一套房子。“我听说，像我这种类型的白血病，即使维持在缓解期，最多也只能再活15年或20年。这就是我的死刑判决书。但是，在我死后，将会开始一个新的阶段。我现在十分相信这一点。”
Researchers acknowledge that it’s not clear how psilocybin reduces a person’s anxiety about mortality, not simply during the trip but for weeks and months following. “It’s a bit of a mystery,” Grob says. “I don’t really have altogether a definitive answer as to why the drug eases the fear of death, but we do know that from time immemorial individuals who have transformative spiritual experiences come to a very different view of themselves and the world around them and thus are able to handle their own deaths differently.”
研究人员承认，目前尚不清楚为何裸盖菇素降低人们死亡焦虑的效果并不仅限于疗程期间，而是可以持续数周乃至数个月。“这仍是一个谜，”格罗布说。“关于为什么致幻剂可以减轻死亡的恐惧，我确实还没有全面和明确的答案，但我们确知的是，从远古时代以来，曾经历过精神上的重大转折的人看待自己和周围世界的角度都会大有变化，因此他们对死亡的态度也不同以往。”
“On psychedelics,” Halpern says, “you have an experience in which you feel there is something you are a part of, something else is out there that’s bigger than you, that there is a dazzling unity you belong to, that love is possible and all these realizations are imbued with deep meaning. I’m telling you that you’re not going to forget that six months from now. The experience gives you, just when you’re on the edge of death, hope for something more.”
“在致幻剂的效力下，”哈尔彭说，“你会感觉有一个远比你还要庞大的实体存在，它光芒万丈，浑然一体，而你只是它的一部分。爱有无限的可能，所有这些认识都蕴含着深刻的意义。听我说，你绝不会忘记从现在开始的六个月。在你面对死亡的深渊时，这些经验会给你带来新的希望。”
If psilocybin can so reliably induce these life-altering experiences, why have the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have taken magic mushrooms recreationally not had this profound experience? Grob explains that in addition to the carefully controlled setting of these studies and the opportunity to process the experience with the researchers, the subjects are primed for transcendence before they even take the drug. “Unlike the recreational user, we process the experience ahead of time,” Grob says. “We make it very clear up front that the hoped-for outcome is therapeutic, that they’ll have less anxiety, less depression and a greater acceptance of death.” Subjects, in other words, intend to have a transformative experience. Grob says that psilocybin taken in this setting is “existential medicine.”
如果裸盖菇素可以如此可靠地诱导改变人生的经历，那么，为什么成千上万以吸食迷幻菇为乐的美国人从未获得过这样深刻的体会？格罗布解释道，这些研究除了具备严格控制的环境并提供了与研究人员共同经历和应对这些经验的机会之外，很重要的一点是，受试者早在服用药物之前就已经期盼着获得超脱。“与那些耽于快感的吸毒者不同，我们提前对可能获得的经验进行了‘预处理’，”格罗布说。“我们一开始就明确表明我们希望获得有疗效的结果，希望他们可以减轻焦虑和抑郁，并更好地接受死亡。”换句话说，受试者们的身心都准备好了要接受一场“洗礼”。格罗布表示，在这种背景下，裸盖菇素是一种“存在主义药物。”
For all the eloquence of these explanations, however, something feels fuzzy about a phenomenon in which a cancer-ridden patient takes a pill and overcomes her fear of death not just for the moment but for weeks and months that follow. A recent British study, published in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences earlier this year, may begin to help us understand what might be happening here. In this study, David J. Nutt, a psychiatrist at the Imperial College London, and his team used an M.R.I. to scan healthy volunteers dosed on psilocybin in order to “capture the transition from normal waking consciousness to the psychedelic state.” The researchers found that the states of “unrestrained consciousness” that accompany the ingestion of psilocybin are associated with a deactivation of regions of the brain that integrate our senses and our perception of self. In depressed people, Nutt explains, one of those regions, the anterior cingulate cortex, is overactive, and psilocybin may work to shut it down. Nutt is planning a study in which he will give psilocybin to individuals with treatment resistant depression and see whether the drug can ease some of depression’s most recalcitrant symptoms.
然而，即使有了上述长篇大论的解释，癌症缠身的患者在服药后可以持续数周乃至数月克服死亡恐惧的这个现象仍然令人费解。今年早些时候，《美国科学院院刊》(The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)上发表了一项英国的近期研究，或许能够帮助我们解开其中的谜团。在这项研究中，伦敦帝国理工学院(Imperial College London)的精神科医生戴维·J·纳特(David J. Nutt)和他的团队使用磁共振成像(M.R.I.)对服用裸盖菇素的健康志愿者进行了扫描，以期“捕获从正常清醒的意识状态向迷幻状态过渡的过程”。研究人员发现，伴随摄入裸盖菇素而产生的“无拘无束的意识”状态与大脑中负责整合感觉和自我感知的区域发生失活相关。纳特解释说，在抑郁者中，其中一个区域，即前扣带皮层过度活跃，而裸盖菇素可将其关闭。纳特正在策划一项新的研究，他打算让难治性抑郁症患者服用裸盖菇素，并观察该药物能否缓解抑郁症的某些最顽固的症状。
Perhaps end-stage cancer patients are able to capture enduring benefits of psilocybin precisely because they are processing their drug experiences again and again with research staff and in doing so are changing the way the brain encodes positive memories. The phenomenon might be similar to how other memories work; when we remember something sweet-smelling, the olfactory neurons in our brain start to stir; when we remember running, our motor cortex begins to buzz. If this is the case then merely recalling the trip could resurrect its neural correlates, allowing the person to re-experience the insight, the awareness, the hope.
也许终末期癌症患者能够持久地受益于裸盖菇素正是因为他们与研究人员们一起一次又一次地重温了药物带来的体验，并藉此改变了大脑编码积极记忆的方式。该现象与其他记忆的工作原理颇为类似；当我们想起香气扑鼻的东西时，大脑中的嗅觉神经元就开始激动；当我们想着跑步时，运动皮层开始运转。假如是这样的话，仅仅通过回顾曾经的精神奇幻之旅就可以重新唤醒原来的神经关联，令人再度体验到那时的洞悉、感悟和希望。
Because Grob and other psychedelic researchers are careful to separate their scientific work from the shadow of the 1960s, they have a complicated relationship with a psychedelic advocate named Rick Doblin, the founder and executive director of the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Study (MAPS), located in Santa Cruz, Calif. Doblin is not a psychiatrist — his advanced degree in public policy is from Harvard’s Kennedy School — and his mission is to legalize psychedelics so they can be prescribed for “a wide range of clinical indications.” Doblin says, in addition, “these substances should be available for things that are not diseases, like personal growth, spirituality, couples’ counseling.”
由于格罗布和其他致幻剂研究人员很谨慎地使他们的科学工作规避了20世纪60年代的阴影，他们与致幻剂的倡导者，美国致幻剂多学科研究（MAPS，位于美国加利福尼亚州的圣克鲁斯）的执行理事里克·多布林(Rick Doblin)之间的关系颇为复杂和微妙。多布林并不是一名精神科医生——他在哈佛大学肯尼迪学院(Harvard’s Kennedy School)获得公共政策学位——却以将致幻剂合法化为己任，期望这些药物可以处方用于“多种临床适应症”，多布林说，此外，“这些药物还应适用于疾病之外的情况，如人格成长、灵性以及夫妻咨询等等。”
Despite their differing stances, MAPS and researchers meet at many points. Doblin, for instance, has F.D.A. approval to do a study on the psychological effects of MDMA when taken by healthy volunteers. His subjects will be therapists who are taking part in a MAPS program that teaches them how to guide their clients through psychedelic journeys. Doblin also worked closely with the Swiss researcher Dr. Peter Gasser in investigating the safety and efficacy of LSD-assisted psychotherapy for subjects with anxiety stemming from life-threatening illnesses.
尽管立场不同，但这并不影响MAPS与研究人员在许多问题上达成共识。例如，多布林已经获得了美国食品和药品管理局(FDA)的批准，可以采用健康志愿者来研究MDMA的心理学效应。他将选择参加MAPS项目的治疗师作为受试者，并教会他们如何在整个迷幻之旅中引导客户。多布林还曾与瑞士研究人员彼得·加塞尔(Peter Gasser)博士密切合作，共同研究在因危及生命的疾病而饱受焦虑困扰的受试者中，LSD辅助心理治疗的安全性和有效性。
“Rick Doblin has done a lot for the field, but he is more of a populist,” Grob says. “We need careful and controlled scientific studies showing the efficacy of these drugs so funding can continue.” Broader awareness of these sorts of end-of-life psychedelic studies could be good for everyone, the researchers say. “If insurance companies knew about our outcomes, they might get a lot more interested in what we’re doing here.” Griffiths continued: “When you make people less afraid to die, then they’re less likely to cling to life at a huge cost to society. After having such a transcendent experience, individuals with terminal illness often show a markedly reduced fear of dying and no longer feel the need to aggressively pursue every last medical intervention available. Instead they become more interested in the quality of their remaining life as well as the quality of their death.”
“里克·多布林为这个领域做出了很多贡献，但他更像是一个民粹主义者，”格罗布说。“我们需要通过严谨和控制下的科学研究来证实这些药物的疗效，才能继续获得资助。”更广泛地宣传这些临终致幻剂研究可能有益于所有人，研究人员说。“如果保险公司得知我们的研究结果，也许他们会对我们现在进行的研究更感兴趣。”格里菲思继续说：“当人们都不再畏惧死亡，他们就不太可能会为了苟延残喘而耗费巨额的社会成本。在经历过这样一次超然的体验后，绝症患者对死亡的恐惧感往往大幅降低，也就不再迫切地想要去尝试所有可能的医疗干预。相反，他们会将兴趣放在余生的生活质量以及死亡的品质之上。”
In a future still far off, Grob imagines retreat centers where the dying could have psilocybin administered to them by a staff trained for the task. Doblin asks: “Why confine this to just the dying? This powerful intervention could be used with young adults who could then reap the benefits of it much earlier.” The subjects who have undergone psilocybin treatment report an increased appreciation for the time they have left, a deeper awareness of their roles in the cycle of life and an increased motivation to invest their days with meaning. “Imagine allowing young adults, who have their whole lives in front of them, access to this kind of therapy,” Doblin says. “Imagine the kind of lives they could then create.”
格罗布想象，在依旧十分遥远的未来里，濒死者可以在临终关怀中心训练有素的工作人员的辅助下接受裸盖菇素治疗。多布林问：“为什么要局限于濒死者？如果这种强大的干预可以用于年轻的成年人，他们就可以早早地从中获益。”曾接受裸盖菇素治疗的受试者均报告，他们对自己的余生更为珍惜，对自己在生命循环中承担的角色也有了更深的认识，他们更加积极地生活，不愿自己再虚度时光。“年轻人面前还有大把大把的人生，想象一下，要是他们也能获得这种疗法，”多布林说。“想象一下他们可以创造出怎样的生活。”
If David Nutt, in Britain, is able to prove the efficacy of psilocybin for treatment-resistant depression, would the F.D.A. ever consider approving it for that use? And if that ever were to happen, what sort of slippery slope would we find ourselves on? If, say, end-stage cancer patients can have it, then why not all individuals over the age of, say, 75? If treatment-resistant depressives can have it, then why not their dysthymic counterparts, who suffer in a lower key but whose lives are clearly compromised by their chronic pain? And if dysthymic individuals can have it, then why not those suffering from agoraphobia, shut up day and night in cramped quarters, Xanax bottles littered everywhere?
如果戴维·纳特可以在英国证实裸盖菇素治疗难治性抑郁症的疗效，FDA是否会考虑批准其使用？假若这已经发生，我们将处于怎样一发不可收拾的境地？如果说，终末期癌症患者可以使用这种疗法，那为什么不能给某个年纪，比如说75岁以上的所有人使用？如果难治性抑郁症患者可以，那么生活被慢性疼痛搅得一塌糊涂，只是症状不那么明显的那些抑郁患者为什么不行？如果精神抑郁的患者可以，那么不得不终日将自己幽闭于阿普唑仑(Xanax)药瓶四处散落的狭小室内的广场恐惧症患者又为什么不可以？
Halpern is not particularly worried about this theoretical future, in large part because he doesn’t see much hope for psilocybin as a medicine. “There’s no money in it,” he says. “What drug company is going to invest millions in a substance widely available in our flora and fauna?” Grob has a more practical response, suggesting that, in our theoretical future, drugs like psilocybin should be reserved for only those who have no other alternatives. “There’s a lot of good treatment for depression,” he says. “And anxiety too. A drug like psilocybin, or maybe psilocybin itself, should be reserved for those who have no other treatment options.”
哈尔彭对这个理论上的未来并不怎么担心，在很大程度上，这是由于他觉得裸盖菇素没什么希望能成为一种药物。“这里面无利可图，”他说，“哪个制药公司会对一种广泛存在于动物界和植物界的物质投资数百万？”格罗布的反应则更为实际，他提出，在我们从理论上构想出来的未来里，裸盖菇素这类药物只适用于已经走投无路的患者。“有很多很好的方法可以治疗抑郁症，”他说，“对焦虑症亦然。裸盖菇素之类的药物，或者说裸盖菇素本身，只应作为那些已经再无其他治疗方案可用的患者的最后一招。”
Besides, Grob told me, scientists are still at the very early stages of this research. “Twelve people,” he says of the size of his study. “One study with 12 people is not very definitive.” And yet, talking to him, you can hear a hint of excitement, something rising. “We saw remarkable and sustained changes in cancer patients’ spiritual dispositions. People’s entire sense of who they are has been altered in a positive manner.” He is looking forward to the day, he told me, when Griffiths and Ross “crunch their numbers” from their current studies. Grob says, “From what they say they’re seeing, it all sounds very positive.” Perhaps, then, we need not understand precisely how and why psilocybin works, accepting, as Halpern puts it, that “when you combine the chemical, the corporeal and the spiritual, you get a spark. You get magic.”
此外，格罗布告诉我，科学家们仍处在这项研究的早期阶段。“12人，”他说的是目前的研究规模。“一项只有12名参与者的研究当然还有很多不确定性。”然而，在跟他交谈时，你总能感到某种兴奋的意味。“我们发现癌症患者的精神气质发生了显著而持续的改变。人们对自我的整体认知变得更加积极。”他告诉我，他期待着格里菲斯和罗斯总结和发布他们的研究数据的那一天。格罗布说，“从他们现有的介绍来看，结果令人鼓舞。”或许，我们其实并不需要确切了解裸盖菇素的作用机制，只需要接受并利用它就好，正如哈尔彭所说的那样，“当化学、肉体和精神凑在一起，会触发奇妙的魔法，然后就是见证奇迹的时刻。”