OXFORD, England — SOMETIMES, just sometimes, you should pay attention to annoying things said by tiresome people at worthy conferences.
英格兰牛津——有时候，仅仅是有时候，你应该注意一些无聊的人在重要会议上所说的烦人的话。
In 1994, I was half asleep at a round table in St. Petersburg, Russia, when a short, thickset man with a rather ratlike face — apparently a sidekick of the city’s mayor — suddenly piped up. Russia, he said, had voluntarily given up “huge territories” to the former republics of the Soviet Union, including areas “which historically have always belonged to Russia.” He was thinking “not only about Crimea and northern Kazakhstan, but also for example about the Kaliningrad area.” Russia could not simply abandon to their fate those “25 million Russians” who now lived abroad. The world had to respect the interests of the Russian state “and of the Russian people as a great nation.”
1994年，在俄罗斯圣彼得堡的一次圆桌会议上，当在我正处在半睡半醒的状态时，一名身材矮壮的男子突然发言了。这个男人的脸长得挺像老鼠，似乎是该市市长身边的人。他说，俄罗斯自愿将“大片领土”让给了苏联的前加盟共和国，包括“在历史上一直属于俄罗斯”的地区。他当时想的“不仅是克里米亚和哈萨克斯坦北部，还包括加里宁格勒地区”。俄罗斯不会完全让现在身在国外的那“2500万俄罗斯人”听天由命。全世界必须尊重俄罗斯这个国家，“以及俄罗斯人作为一个伟大的民族”的利益。
The name of this irritating little man was — you guessed it — Vladimir V. Putin, and I know exactly what he said back in 1994 because the organizers, the Körber Foundation of Hamburg, Germany, published a full transcript. For the phrase that I have translated as “the Russian people,” the German transcript uses the word “volk.” Mr. Putin seemed to have, and still has, an expansive, völkisch definition of “Russians” — or what he now refers to as the “russkiy mir” (literally “Russian world”). The transcript also records that I teased out the consequences of the then-obscure deputy mayor’s vision by saying, “If we defined British nationality to include all English-speaking people, we would have a state slightly larger than China.”
这个令人生厌的小个子男人的名字——你已经猜到了——便是弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)。我现在还准确地记得他在1994年说的话，是因为那次会议的主办方、德国汉堡的科尔伯基金会(Körber Foundation of Hamburg)发布了完整的文字记录。在德语文字记录中，被我翻译成“俄罗斯人民”的那个短语用的是“volk”（意为人民、民族——译注）这个词。普京那时似乎对“俄罗斯人”——或现在所谓的“russkiy mir”（字面意思为“俄罗斯世界”）——有一个广泛的民族主义定义，现在也依然有。文字记录还显示，我对当时那个鲜为人知的副市长的观点进行了推论，说“如果我们对不列颠民族的定义包括所有说英语的人，那我们的国家比中国还大。”
Little did we imagine that, 20 years later, the St. Petersburg deputy mayor, now uncrowned czar of all the Russians, would have seized Crimea by force, covertly stirred up violent mayhem in eastern Ukraine and be explicitly advancing his 19th-century völkisch vision as the policy of a 21st-century state. Today’s Kremlin has its own perverted version of the Western-developed and United Nations-sanctified humanitarian doctrine of the “responsibility to protect.” Russia, Mr. Putin insists, has a responsibility to protect all Russians abroad, and he gets to decide who is a Russian.
我们根本没想到，20年后，当年的圣彼得堡副市长、现在所有俄罗斯人的无冕沙皇会用武力夺取克里米亚，偷偷在乌克兰东部挑动暴力骚乱，明目张胆地把他19世纪式的民族主义观点当做一个21世纪国家的政策来推行。对于由西方发展，并得到了联合国认可的“保护义务”人道主义学说，如今的克里姆林宫有着自己经过扭曲的版本。普京坚称，俄罗斯有义务保护境外的所有俄罗斯人，而谁是俄罗斯人将由他决定。
We should, of course, avoid what the philosopher Henri Bergson called the illusions of retrospective determinism. History seldom moves in straight lines. After Mr. Putin’s rise to supreme power in the Russian state, starting when he became prime minister in 1999, he experimented with other models of relations with the West and the rest of the world. For some years, he tried modernization in cooperation with the West. He embraced membership in the Group of 8 — one of several inducements that the United States and Europe offered to help Russia down its inevitably difficult post-imperial path. President George W. Bush got Mr. Putin wrong when he “looked the man in the eye” in 2001, but it would be bad history to conclude that the Putin of 2001 was already secretly planning to take back Crimea and destabilize eastern Ukraine.
当然，我们应该避免哲学家亨利·柏格森(Henri Bergson)所说的追溯性决定论的错觉。历史很少直线前进。1999年，普京担任总理，开始登上俄罗斯国家权力的巅峰。在那之后，面对西方及世界其他国家和地区时，他对其他关系模式进行了实验。若干年中，他与西方合作，尝试了现代化。他曾支持俄罗斯成为八国集团(Group of 8)的一员——俄罗斯后帝国时期的道路注定困难重重，这是美国和欧洲为帮助俄罗斯坚持走下去而提供的几项激励措施中的一个。2001年，当乔治·W·布什总统(George W. Bush)“看着这名男子的眼睛”时，他看错了这个人。但若断定2001年时普京便已经在密谋夺回克里米亚，破坏乌克兰东部的稳定，那么也是不正确地看待历史。
Although historians should explore those paths not taken, it is nonetheless fascinating to see how the essentials of Mr. Putin’s resentment-fueled protector state doctrine were already there in 1994 — even if they were not then buttressed by ideological quotations from Russian thinkers like Ivan Ilyin.
虽然历史学家应该探索那些未被前人走过的路径，但是，查看一下普京那种被怨恨推动的保护学说，其要点是如何在1994年就已经存在的，也会非常有趣。尽管在当时，伊万·伊林(Ivan Ilyin)那样的俄罗斯思想家还没有用意识形态方面的语言为它提供支持。
Once upon a time, there was the Brezhnev Doctrine, which justified as “fraternal help” such actions as the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968. Mikhail S. Gorbachev replaced it with the Sinatra Doctrine —You do it your way, as Gennadi I. Gerasimov, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, put it — toward Eastern Europe. Now we have the Putin Doctrine.
曾几何时，该国有过“勃列日涅夫主义”(Brezhnev Doctrine)，把苏联1968年入侵捷克斯洛伐克的行动说成是“兄弟式的帮助”。后来米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)改用“西纳特拉主义”(Sinatra Doctrine)对待东欧，用其外交部发言人根纳季·格拉西莫夫(Gennadi I. Gerasimov)的话来说，就是“你用自己的方式来行事"。现在则换成了普京主义(Putin Doctrine)。
It is impossible to overstate the degree to which this is a threat not just to Russia’s Eastern European and Eurasian neighbors but to the whole post-1945 international order. Across the world, countries see men and women living in other countries whom they regard as in some sense “their people.” What if, as has happened in the past, Chinese minorities in Southeast Asian countries were to be the targets of discrimination and popular anger, and China (where, on a visit this spring, I heard admiration expressed for Mr. Putin’s actions) decided to take up the mother country’s burden, exercising its völkisch responsibility to protect?
不仅对于俄罗斯的东欧和欧亚邻国来说，而且对于1945年后的整个国际秩序，它构成的威胁怎么夸大也不嫌过分。举目全球，各国都多多少少把居于其他国家的本国后裔视为“自己人”。假设在东南亚国家属于少数族裔的中国人，像过去曾经发生过的那样，再度受到歧视，又一次成为公众发泄愤怒的靶子，而中国决定肩负起“祖国”的重担，行使其民族主义保护义务，那会怎么样？（我今春去中国时，听到那里的人们对普京的行动表示赞赏。）
TO make clear why such actions are totally unacceptable, and a grave threat to world peace, we also have to agree on the legitimate rights and responsibilities of a mother country. My British passport still carries the resonant old formula that Her Britannic Majesty’s Secretary of State “requests and requires” foreign powers to let me pass “without let or hindrance,” and if I got into a spot of local difficulty in, say, Transnistria, I would hope (though not necessarily trust) that he would very earnestly require it. More relevant, Poland has expressed concern for the position of Polish speakers in Lithuania. Hungary has handed out both passports and voting rights in national elections to citizens of neighboring countries whom it deems to be members of the Hungarian people. To pin down what is illegitimate, we have to explain more clearly what is legitimate.
要弄清楚为什么这种行为是完全不能接受的，是对世界和平的严重威胁，我们也必须赞成祖国的合法权利和责任。在我的英国护照上，仍然印有英国女王陛下的国务大臣郑重表述的旧例措辞，要求外国让我“不受阻碍”地通行，如果我在一个地方遇到麻烦，譬如说在德涅斯特河沿岸共和国，我希望（尽管不一定相信）他会很认真地要求他们让我通行。更具相关性的一个例子是，对于立陶宛国内讲波兰语的人，波兰已经对他们的处境表示了关注。匈牙利则给它认为是匈牙利人的邻国公民提供了护照和全国大选的投票权。要指出哪些做法不合法，我们就必须更清楚地解释哪些做法是合法的。
As of Friday, American and Ukrainian officials were saying it was likely that a Russian-made antiaircraft missile had brought down Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, in yet another harvest of sorrow on Ukrainian fields already blood-soaked by history. It was not clear who fired it. But it is hypocrisy on an Orwellian scale for Mr. Putin to maintain, as he did on Friday, that “the government over whose territory this happened bears the responsibility for this terrible tragedy.” There is undoubtedly bitter discontent among many self-identified Russians in eastern Ukraine, but the violence of their protests has been stirred by a massively mendacious narrative on Russian television, and their paramilitaries have been supported, to put it no more strongly, by Mr. Putin’s Russia — including the presence of members or former members of Russian special forces.
在历史上，乌克兰领土曾经浸透鲜血，上周那里又发生了一起机毁人亡的悲剧。美国和乌克兰官员上周五称，很有可能是俄制防空导弹击落了马航MH17航班。目前还不清楚是谁发射了这枚导弹。但普京上周五的说法，其虚伪程度已经达到了奥威尔级别，他坚称：“在哪国境内发生的悲剧，就该由哪个国家的政府负责。”在乌克兰东部，自认为是俄罗斯人的民众无疑有一些痛苦和不满，但俄罗斯电视台大张声势的虚假叙述，激化了他们抗议活动的暴力程度，而他们的准军事组织，毫不夸张地说，获得了普京的俄罗斯的支持——包括俄罗斯特种部队前任和现任成员的参与。