A 19TH-CENTURY VILLA IN CENTRAL BARCELONA
待售房产：巴塞罗那市中心一栋19世纪的花园别墅(Villa)
$3.25 MILLION (2.4 MILLION EUROS)
价格：325万美元（240万欧元，约合人民币1976万元）
This pink stucco villa built in 1897 has been reimagined by the current owners as a two-story dwelling atop a one-bedroom apartment. A path of terra-cotta tile cuts through the Mediterranean-style garden to a staircase leading up to the main entrance on the parlor floor.
这栋灰泥粉饰的淡红色别墅原建于1897年，由现在的房东改建成了位于一套单卧室公寓之上的两层居所。一条赤土陶砖铺成的小路穿过地中海风格的花园，直达通往客厅大门的楼梯口。
The original mosaic tile floors in the main hallway have been restored. In the living room, the white marble fireplace is one of many design elements added to evoke the aesthetic of Antoni Gaudí, the famed Barcelona architect, who designed the structures in Park Güell nearby. The wallpaper lining the built-in bookshelves echoes the deep pink wall paint. The kitchen has Gaggenau appliances, white-painted cabinets with glass upper doors, and a glass door leading to the side yard. There are four bedrooms on the third floor, each with a new hardwood floor. The master suite has a dressing room and a windowed alcove that overlooks the courts of the nearby tennis club. The master bath, papered in a black-and-white flower pattern, has round sinks and open shelving for linen storage. On the roof, reached via the central stairwell, a large terrace has views of central Barcelona and the Mediterranean.
主门厅地面上原有的马赛克瓷砖已被修复。起居室中那座白色的大理石壁炉，是为与安东尼·高迪(Antoni Gaudí)的美学风格相呼应而添加的众多设计元素之一。这位巴塞罗那的著名建筑设计大师设计的桂尔公园(Park Güell)就在附近。几座嵌壁式书架内贴的墙纸与深粉色的墙面漆相互呼应。厨房里配备了嘉格纳(Gaggenau)品牌的电器和一组上层带玻璃门的白漆橱柜，有一扇玻璃门通往侧院。三楼有四间卧室，每间都铺了新的实木地板。主卧套间里有一间更衣室和一间可以俯瞰附近网球俱乐部球场的带窗凹室。主卧的浴室中贴着黑白花纹的墙纸，配有圆形的盥洗池和存放日用品的开放式置物架。从中央楼梯可以到达屋顶，上有一个大平台，巴塞罗那市中心和地中海的景色一览无余。
The house is in La Salut, a district of Gràcia, about 10 minutes from the city center. Gaudí’s fantastical structures in Park Güell are within walking distance. Grocery stores, boutiques and cafes are just up the street, and the Benjamin Franklin International School is a 10-minute drive. The airport is 20 minutes away.
这栋房产在格拉西亚(Gràcia)区的一个社区La Salut内，距市中心大约10分钟路程。桂尔公园的高迪梦幻建筑群也在步行范围之内。杂货店、精品女装店和咖啡馆就在这条街的上游，而本杰明·富兰克林国际学校(Benjamin Franklin International School)距此地也只有10分钟车程，机场则在20分钟车程外。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况：
“It’s been a long, hard road for Spain,” said Christian de Meillac, the head of the Spain desk for the real estate company Knight Frank of London. Explaining that the market had come down 40 to 50 percent over all since 2007, he said the fall was less precipitous for luxury properties — 20 to 30 percent, on average. There are new signs that the bottom is in sight. Mr. de Meillac said that volume had picked up over the last six months and that prices are beginning to stabilize.
“对西班牙来说，这是一条漫长而艰辛的道路，”伦敦莱坊房地产公司(Knight Frank)的西班牙办事处主管梅亚克(Christian de Meillac)说。自2007年起，当地房地产市场已经下跌了40%至50%，他解释道，但是豪宅价格下跌的情况还没那么险峻，平均只有20%至30%。新的迹象显示，市场回落已经见底。梅亚克说，在过去六个月里，交易量已经逐渐增加，而价格也开始变得稳定了。
Ann Adenius, a director of Leading Luxury Real Estate, agreed.  “Over all there is a move toward more realistic asking prices from sellers,” she said. Well-priced homes in national hot spots are attracting international bargain hunters.
房地产公司Leading Luxury Real Estate的主管安·阿德纽斯(Ann Adenius)也同意这一看法。“总体而言，卖家报出的要价趋向于更加务实了，”她说。一些价格合理又位于全国热点城市的房屋，正在吸引着国际淘房客。
Barcelona certainly benefits from being a cosmopolitan market, with lively interest among citizens of the Middle East, Russia and other parts of Europe. Mr. de Meillac said sales in the city were up 10 to 15 percent over the last year, a hopeful sign in a country where real estate has been stagnant for so long. A few districts even reported price gains in the first half of 2013, another signal that the market is strengthening, Ms. Adenius said.
巴塞罗那市作为一个国际性的房地产市场，毫无疑问是有所获益的。这里活跃着来自中东、俄罗斯和欧洲其它地方的市民。梅亚克说，去年，这座城市中的房地产销量已经上涨了10%至15%，对于一个历经了地产市场的长久不景气的国家而言，这是一个充满希望的迹象。2013年上半年，巴塞罗那个别城区甚至报出了一些价格上涨的情况，这是楼市回暖的另一个迹象，阿德纽斯说。
Prices for single-family houses in La Salut, the site of this house, range from 1 million to 4 million euros, depending on condition, according to Mr. de Meillac. This house is priced at 2.4 million euros ($3.25 million).
据梅亚克说，在La Salut地区，也就是这栋房产的所在地，独栋房屋的价格根据具体情况从100万欧元（约合人民币823万元）到400万欧元（约合人民币3294万元）不等。这栋房屋的售价定为240万欧元（325万美元，约合人民币1976万元）。
WHO BUYS IN BARCELONA
谁在巴塞罗那买房？
“Spain is like the Florida for Northern Europeans,” said Rafael Rosendo, a sales executive for Lucas Fox International Properties in Barcelona, who has the listing. In addition to these buyers, Mr. Rosendo said, there are buyers from North America, Britain and China, in addition to Russia and the Arab countries.
“西班牙对于北欧人就像佛罗里达(Florida)，”巴塞罗那房地产公司Lucas Fox International Properties的一位销售总裁拉斐尔·罗森多(Rafael Rosendo)说。这处在售房产正是他挂出的。除北欧买家外，还有来自北美、英国和中国的买家，以及俄罗斯和阿拉伯国家的。
BUYING BASICS
购买条件：
There are no restrictions on foreigners, according to Mr. Rosendo. In fact, a new law aims to encourage foreign buyers by making residency permits more easily obtainable to those who spend at least 500,000 euros on Spanish real estate. Foreigners can also obtain mortgages in some circumstances. Mr. Rosendo says that although European Union citizens can qualify for mortgages of up to 60 percent of the purchase price, buyers from elsewhere are limited to 50 percent.
据罗森多说，西班牙没有对外国买家设定的限制。其实，一项新出台的法律还在鼓励外国买家前来。它允许那些在西班牙房地产市场中消费至少50万欧元（约合人民币411万元）的买家更易获得居住许可证。在某些情况下，外国买家还可以获得按揭贷款。罗森多说，欧盟国家的公民有资格获得购买价格60%的按揭贷款，而针对其余买家的额度则限制在50%。
Buyers in Spain pay a stamp duty equal to 10 percent of the purchase price; Mr. Rosendo says this relatively expensive fee is part of the reason that annual property taxes are so low. Deed registry, notary fees and legal fees constitute another 1 to 1.5 percent.
在西班牙购房的人需支付等同于售价10%的印花税；罗森多说，因为这项费用相对较高，所以买家每年所需支付的房产税就非常低了。另外，房屋转让契约注册费、公证费和法律费用总计为售价的1%到1.5%。
WEBSITES
网站：
Barcelona tourism: barcelonaturisme.com
巴塞罗那旅行网：barcelonaturisme.com
Park Güell: parkguell.es
桂尔公园：parkguell.es
Club Tennis de la Salut: ctlasalut.com
La Salut社区网球俱乐部：ctlasalut.com
Barcelona metro: tmb.cat/en/home
巴塞罗那地铁：tmb.cat/en/home
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
语言和货币：
Spanish, Catalan, Galician, Basque and Occitan; euro (1 euro = $1.36)
西班牙语，加泰罗尼亚语，加里西亚语，巴斯克语和欧西坦语；欧元（1欧元=1.36美元，约合人民币8.23元）
TAXES AND FEES
税费：
Property taxes are 1,100 euros a year, according to the listing agent.
据该房产的经纪人说，房产税为每年1100欧元（约合人民币9054元）。
CONTACT
联系方式：
Rafael Rosendo, Lucas Fox International Properties, 011 34 933 562 989, rafael@lucasfox.com; lucasfox.com
拉斐尔·罗森多(Rafael Rosendo)，Lucas Fox International Properties，011 34 933 562 989, rafael@lucasfox.com；lucasfox.com