Margareta Marza, a 28-year-old marketer in Stockholm, was reading a book on Thursday evening when she received my call.
玛格丽特·马尔萨(Margareta Marza)，一个在斯德哥尔摩的28岁市场营销员，在周四晚上当她接到我的电话的时候正在读一本书。
Until she told me, I had no idea who she was. And she didn’t know who I was — or which number, country or time zone I was calling from. But that was the fun part.
在她告诉我之前，我并不知道她是谁。同样她也不知道我是谁——以及哪个电话号码、国家和我来自的时区。不过这正是有趣的地方。
To gin up interest in the country, a Swedish tourism agency created the Swedish Number, 46-771-793-336, a single phone line that connects international callers to randomly selected Swedish volunteers to chat about whatever is on their minds.
为了激发对这个国家的兴趣，一个瑞典旅行中介设立了一个瑞典号码，46-771-793-336，一个单独电话线路能够将国际呼叫者随机地同被选择的瑞典志愿者连通聊聊任何在他们脑海中的问题。
When I called the number and was connected to Ms. Marza, she said she had been driven to participate out of curiosity and for the chance to have pleasant, serendipitous chats.
当我拨打这个号码并且和马尔萨小姐连通后，她说她被驱使来参与是出于好奇以及愉快、偶然惊喜对话的机会。
“It’s amazing how you are in New York and I am here,” she said. “It makes the world seem smaller.”
“这是多么的奇妙当你在纽约而我在这里，”她说，“这让世界看起来更小了。”
The Swedish Number’s website invites callers to “talk about anything you want.” After I dialed the number (callers from the United States should dial 011 first; international rates apply), an automated voice responded: “Calling Sweden. You will soon be connected to a random Swede, somewhere in Sweden.”
这个瑞典号码的网站邀请拨打者“畅所欲言”。当我拨打这个号码之后（在美国的拨打者需要首先加拨011；需付国际通话费），一个自动语音回复到：“致电瑞典。你接下来很快会和在瑞典某个地方的，任意的一个瑞典人连通。”
In one case, that was Arvid Heden Gynna, 28, a biology student in Uppsala. He chatted with a man in Texas who explained that no, not everyone in the state wore a cowboy hat.
有一个例子，阿维德·黑顿·吉尼(Arvid Heden Gynna)，28岁，一个在乌普萨拉(Uppsala)的生物专业学生。他曾同一个在德克萨斯的男子聊天，那个男子解释道，不，不是每个在这个州的人都戴着牛仔帽。
Michael Kazarnowicz, 38, who works at a communications agency in Stockholm, said he had fielded calls from a Greek who claimed to be bankrupt and in need of money, a birthday girl in Kazakhstan and a chef in Siberia.
迈克尔·克萨诺维奇(Michael Kazarnowicz)，38岁，在斯德哥尔摩的一家通讯机构工作，说他接到的电话来自一个声称破产并需要钱的希腊人，一个在哈萨克斯坦过生日的女孩，一个西伯利亚的厨师。
By letting everyday Swedes communicate directly with foreigners, tourism officials hope to present a more authentic picture of the country than one conjured up by a marketing agency, said Magnus Ling, the secretary general and chief executive of the Swedish Tourist Association. As of Thursday evening, about 3,000 Swedes, many of whom had heard about the number through the local news media, had downloaded a mobile app that would put them on a list to talk with strangers for the next two months.
通过每天让瑞典人直接和外国人交流，旅游业官员希望呈现出这个国家更加真实的画面而不仅是由市场营销机构想象出来的，马格努斯·令(Magnus Ling)说道，他是瑞典游客协会秘书长及首席执行官。当周四晚间，大约有3000瑞典人，其中许多听说这个号码是通过当地新闻媒体，下载了一款手机应用可以将他们列入一个在接下来两个月和陌生人通话的名单。
Yes, Mr. Ling acknowledged, the chats could go off the rails. But he had little fear of lewd, meanspirited or even dangerous correspondence — he believes that people have good intentions, he said. And he believes the Swedish people will make good ambassadors for the country.
是的，令先生承认，这些聊天可能误入歧途。但是他并不对淫荡、卑劣、甚至是危险的通信感到恐惧——他相信人们有好的初衷，他说。并且他认为瑞典人民将会成为这个国家的好大使。
“It’s no worse than when we travel abroad and two people meet and talk about Sweden,” he said.
“这不会比当我们出国旅行时两个人见面并聊聊瑞典更加糟糕，”他说道。
Sweden is no stranger to relying on its people to tell its story. The country has a Twitter account, @Sweden, and it is staffed by a different resident each week, who is given full freedom to write Twitter posts about virtually whatever he or she likes on behalf of the nation of about 9.5 million people.
瑞典对于依靠它的人民讲述它的故事并不陌生。这个国家有一个推特(Twitter)账号，@Sweden，并且由不同的居民每周担任员工，这名员工有完全的自由去写推特贴子关于任何他或她喜欢的，以代表这个国家约950万人。
About 7,500 calls had been placed to the Swedish Number as of Thursday afternoon, with the most coming from Turkey and the United States. Mr. Ling said several of the people he had spoken to from the United States were especially curious to get his take on the presidential race (typical Americans, making it all about us). Other Swedes I spoke to were eager to battle stereotypes (no, they aren’t all blond).
在周四下午，大约有7500人呼叫这个瑞典号码，大多数来自土耳其和美国。令先生说这些人中有几个他曾对话过，他们来自美国，并特别好奇他对这次总统竞选的看法（典型的美国人，让任何事情都是关于我们）。其他我通话过的瑞典人渴望同老套刻板做斗争（不，他们并不都是金发碧眼的人）。
Hugo Gefors, a 21-year-old mechanical engineering student in Kalmar, said his call from the Swedish Number had interrupted his studying for a test on Friday, but he had been looking forward to the distraction. After 10 minutes of friendly chatter, including discussion of meatballs — “They are generally not made like the ones you eat at Ikea,” he said — it was time to return to his studies.
胡戈·杰佛斯(Hugo Gefors)，一个在卡马尔(Kalmar)21岁的数学工程专业学生，说他接到这个瑞典号码的呼叫打断了他为周五考试的复习，不过他正期待这个分心事。在10分钟友好的对话后，包括关于肉丸的讨论——“他们通常做的不像你在宜家吃的那些，”他说道——是时候继续学习了。
“Thank you for calling Sweden,” he said before hanging up.
“感谢你致电瑞典”，在挂断电话前他说道。