STOCKHOLM — With a vigorous national debate underway on whether Sweden should enter a military partnership with NATO, officials in Stockholm suddenly encountered an unsettling problem: a flood of distorted and outright false information on social media, confusing public perceptions of the issue.
斯德哥尔摩——在一场围绕瑞典是否该与北约组织(NATO)结成军事伙伴关系而进行的声势浩大的全国性辩论展开之时，斯德哥尔摩的官员突然遭遇一个令人不安的问题：社交媒体上出现的一大批失实、完全错误的信息，正在混淆公众对该问题的看法。
The claims were alarming: If Sweden, a non-NATO member, signed the deal, the alliance would stockpile secret nuclear weapons on Swedish soil; NATO could attack Russia from Sweden without government approval; NATO soldiers, immune from prosecution, could rape Swedish women without fear of criminal charges.
这些断言令人感到担忧：如果非北约成员瑞典签署了这项协议，北约会在瑞典的国土上秘密储备核武器；北约可能会在未经瑞典政府允许的情况下，从这里对俄罗斯发起袭击；可以免于指控的北约士兵可能会强奸瑞典女性，而不用担心受到刑事指控。
They were all false, but the disinformation had begun spilling into the traditional news media, and as the defense minister, Peter Hultqvist, traveled the country to promote the pact in speeches and town hall meetings, he was repeatedly grilled about the bogus stories.
这些信息都是假的，但虚假信息却开始蔓延至传统新闻媒体。在前往瑞典各地发表演讲和举办公众问答活动，宣传这项协议时，瑞典国防部长彼得·胡尔特奎斯特(Peter Hultqvist)反复遭遇拿虚假问题进行的拷问。
“People were not used to it, and they got scared, asking what can be believed, what should be believed?” said Marinette Nyh Radebo, Hultqvist’s spokeswoman.
“人们不习惯这种情况，他们感到害怕，询问什么是真的，应该相信什么？”胡尔特奎斯特的女发言人马莉内特·尼·拉德博(Marinette Nyh Radebo)说。
As often happens in such cases, Swedish officials were never able to pin down the source of the false reports. But numerous analysts and experts in U.S. and European intelligence point to Russia as the prime suspect, noting that preventing NATO expansion is a centerpiece of the foreign policy of President Vladimir Putin, who invaded Georgia in 2008 largely to forestall that possibility.
就像此类造假经常出现的情况一样，瑞典官员一直没能找到虚假信息的源头。但美国和欧洲情报机构的许多分析人士和专家都把俄罗斯看作头号嫌疑人，指出防止北约势力扩张是俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)外交政策的一个核心。后者在2008年入侵格鲁吉亚，在很大程度上就是为了预防这种可能性。
In Crimea, eastern Ukraine and now Syria, Putin has flaunted a modernized and more muscular military. But he lacks the economic strength and overall might to openly confront NATO, the European Union or the United States. Instead, he has invested heavily in a program of “weaponized” information, using a variety of means to sow doubt and division. The goal is to weaken cohesion among member states, stir discord in their domestic politics and blunt opposition to Russia.
普京在克里米亚、东乌克兰以及现在的叙利亚，炫耀其现代化和更强大的军事力量。但他缺乏公开对抗北约、欧盟或美国的经济和整体实力。作为替代，他大量投资一个“武器化”信息项目，利用各种方式引发猜疑，制造分裂。其目标是削弱成员国之间的团结，在他们的国内政治中挑起纷争，弱化对俄罗斯的敌对情绪。
“Moscow views world affairs as a system of special operations, and very sincerely believes that it itself is an object of Western special operations,” said Gleb Pavlovsky, who helped establish the Kremlin’s information machine before 2008. “I am sure that there are a lot of centers, some linked to the state, that are involved in inventing these kinds of fake stories.”
“莫斯科将世界事务看作一套特种作战系统，发自内心地认为它自己是西方特种行动的目标，”在2008年之前帮助克里姆林宫打造信息系统的格列布·帕夫罗夫斯基(Gleb Pavlovsky)说。“可以肯定这里有很多中心，有些与俄罗斯有关，参与制造了这类假信息。”
The planting of false stories is nothing new; the Soviet Union devoted considerable resources to that during the ideological battles of the Cold War. Now, though, disinformation is regarded as an important aspect of Russian military doctrine, and it is being directed at political debates in target countries with far greater sophistication and volume than in the past.
炮制假信息的策略并不新鲜；在冷战时期的意识形态斗争中，苏联就在这方面投入了相当多的资源。不过，现在虚假信息被看作俄罗斯军事理论中的一个重要方面，被用来挑起目标国家政治争论的水平比过去高得多，数量也大得多。
The flow of misleading and inaccurate stories is so strong that both NATO and the EU have established special offices to identify and refute disinformation, particularly claims emanating from Russia.
具有误导性质和不准确的信息如此强大，乃至北约和欧盟都建立了特别办公室，专门确认和驳斥虚假信息，尤其是从俄罗斯发出的言论。
The Kremlin’s clandestine methods have surfaced in the United States, too, U.S. officials say, identifying Russian intelligence as the likely source of leaked Democratic National Committee emails that embarrassed Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign.
美国官员称，克里姆林宫的秘密行动在美国也浮出了水面。他们认定俄罗斯情报机构可能就是民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)邮件泄露的源头。这一事件使希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的总统竞选活动陷入尴尬境地。
The Kremlin uses both conventional media — Sputnik, a news agency, and RT, a television outlet — and covert channels, as in Sweden, that are almost always untraceable.
克林姆林宫既利用传统媒体——卫星通讯社(Sputnik)和今日俄罗斯电视台(RT)——也使用了一些秘密渠道。和瑞典的情况一样，这些信息几乎总是难以追踪的。
Russia exploits both approaches in a comprehensive assault, Wilhelm Urme, a spokesman for the Swedish Security Service, said this year when presenting the agency’s annual report. “We mean everything from internet trolls to propaganda and misinformation spread by media companies like RT and Sputnik,” he said.
瑞典安全局(Swedish Security Service)发言人威廉·尔梅(Wilhelm Urme)今年发布该机构的年度报告时表示，在一场全面的袭击行动中，俄罗斯会同时采用上述两种途径。“我们指的是所有手段，不管是网络水军帖、宣传鼓动，还是RT和Sputnik这类媒体公司传播的虚假信息，”他说。
The fundamental purpose of dezinformatsiya, or Russian disinformation, experts said, is to undermine the official version of events — even the very idea that there is a true version of events — and foster a kind of policy paralysis.
专家表示，俄罗斯传播虚假信息的根本目的是破坏官方对事件的表述，甚至是事件存在真相的这种想法，以造成一种政策瘫痪。
Moscow adamantly denies using disinformation to influence Western public opinion and tends to label accusations of either overt or covert threats as “Russophobia.”
莫斯科坚决否认自己利用虚假信息影响西方国家的舆论，还倾向于将公开和隐蔽的威胁指控称为“恐俄症”。
“There is an impression that, like in a good orchestra, many Western countries every day accuse Russia of threatening someone,” Maria Zakharova, the Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said at a recent ministry briefing.
“我们有这么一种感觉，许多西方国家就像优秀的管弦乐队一样配合默契，每天指责俄罗斯威胁某个国家，”俄罗斯外交部发言人玛利亚·扎哈罗娃(Maria Zakharova)在该部最近一次新闻发布会上说。
Tracing individual strands of disinformation is difficult, but in Sweden and elsewhere, experts have detected a characteristic pattern that they tie to Kremlin-generated disinformation campaigns.
具体追踪某串虚假信息的源头是非常困难的，不过在瑞典等国，专家发现了一种他们觉得与克里姆林宫炮制虚假信息的行动密切相关的独特模式。
“The dynamic is always the same: It originates somewhere in Russia, on Russia state media sites, or different websites or somewhere in that kind of context,” said Anders Lindberg, a Swedish journalist and lawyer.
“其动态机制总是一样：信息产生于俄罗斯的某个地方，在俄罗斯官方媒体网站、其他网站，或其他此类地方，”瑞典记者兼律师安德斯·林德贝里(Anders Lindberg)说。
“Then the fake document becomes the source of a news story distributed on far-left or far-right-wing websites,” he said. “Those who rely on those sites for news link to the story, and it spreads. Nobody can say where they come from, but they end up as key issues in a security policy decision.”
“接着，虚假文件成为发布在极左或极右网站上的一篇新闻报道的来源，”他说。“依赖这些网站获取信息的人看到这篇报道，将之传播开来。没人知道这些信息的源头，但它们最终却成为一项国家安全决策中的关键议题。”
Although the topics may vary, the goal is the same, Lindberg and others suggested. “What the Russians are doing is building narratives; they are not building facts,” he said. “The underlying narrative is, ‘Don’t trust anyone.'”
林德贝里等人表示，尽管话题可能各不相同，但它们的目标是一样的。“俄罗斯人所做的就是建立叙事；它们不是在确立事实，”他说。“这里的潜在叙事是，‘不要相信任何人。’”
The weaponization of information is not some project devised by a Kremlin policy expert but is an integral part of Russian military doctrine — what some senior military figures call a “decisive” battlefront.
信息武器化不是克里姆林宫政策专家策划出来的什么项目，而是俄罗斯军事理论的组成部分，是被一些军事高层人物称为“决定性”战线的部分。
“The role of nonmilitary means of achieving political and strategic goals has grown, and, in many cases, they have exceeded the power of force of weapons in their effectiveness,” Gen. Valery Gerasimov, the chief of the general staff of the Russian Armed Forces, wrote in 2013.
“非军事手段在实现政治和战略目标方面的作用不断增长，在许多情况下，它们的实际效果大过了武力的作用，”俄罗斯联邦武装力量(Russian Armed Forces)总参谋长瓦列里·格拉希莫夫(Valery Gerasimov)上将在2013年写道。
A prime Kremlin target is Europe, where the rise of the populist right and declining support for the EU create an ever more receptive audience for Russia’s conservative, nationalistic and authoritarian approach under Putin. Last year, the European Parliament accused Russia of “financing radical and extremist parties” in its member states, and in 2014 the Kremlin extended an $11.7 million loan to the National Front, the extreme-right party in France.
欧洲是克里姆林宫的一个主要目标。在那里，右翼民粹主义者的崛起和欧盟支持率的持续下降，催生出了不断增多的乐于接纳普京治下俄罗斯保守主义、民族主义和威权主义路线的受众。去年，欧洲议会曾指责俄罗斯在欧盟成员国内“资助激进的极端主义政党”。2014年，克里姆林宫为法国极右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)提供了一笔金额为1170万美元的贷款。
“The Russians are very good at courting everyone who has a grudge with liberal democracy, and that goes from extreme right to extreme left,” said Patrik Oksanen, an editorial writer for the Swedish newspaper group MittMedia. The central idea, he said, is that “liberal democracy is corrupt, inefficient, chaotic and, ultimately, not democratic.”
“俄国人非常善于笼络每一个仇视自由民主制的人，从极右翼到极左翼，无一遗漏，”瑞典报业集团MittMedia的社论撰稿人帕特里克·奥克萨宁(Patrik Oksanen)表示。他说，其中心思想是，“自由民主制是腐败、低效、混乱的，而且根本没有民主可言。”
Another message, largely unstated, is that European governments lack the competence to deal with the crises they face, particularly immigration and terrorism, and that their officials are all U.S. puppets.
基本隐含在内的另一个讯息是，欧洲各国政府无力应对它们面临的危机，尤其是移民问题和恐怖主义，而政府官员全都是美国的傀儡。
In Germany, concerns over immigrant violence grew after a 13-year-old Russian-German girl said she had been raped by migrants. A report on Russian state television furthered the story. Even after the police debunked the claim, Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, continued to chastise Germany.
在德国，一名13岁的俄裔德国女孩说自己曾被多个移民强奸后，人们对移民施暴问题的担忧加深了。俄罗斯官方电视台的一则报道进一步演绎了这个故事。即便是在警方驳斥了相关说法之后，俄罗斯外交部长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)依然对德国大加谴责。
In Britain, analysts said, the Kremlin’s English-language news outlets heavily favored the campaign for the country to leave the EU, despite their claims of objectivity.
在英国，分析人士称，克里姆林宫的英文媒体曾强烈支持英国的脱欧运动，尽管它们声称自己是客观公正的。
In the Czech Republic, alarming, sensational stories portraying the United States, the EU and immigrants as villains appear daily across a cluster of about 40 pro-Russia websites.
在捷克共和国，大约40个亲俄网站上每天都会出现耸人听闻的故事，把美国、欧盟和移民描绘成恶棍。
During NATO military exercises in early June, articles on the websites suggested that Washington controlled Europe through the alliance, with Germany as its local sheriff. Echoing the disinformation that appeared in Sweden, the reports said NATO planned to store nuclear weapons in Eastern Europe and would attack Russia from there without seeking approval from local capitals.
今年6月初北约进行军事演习期间，这些网站发表的文章表示，华盛顿通过北约控制了欧洲，德国则是它在当地的代理人。和出现在瑞典的虚假信息相呼应，这些报道称，北约计划在东欧储备核武器，而且不必寻求当地政府的首肯，就可以从那里对俄罗斯发起攻击。
A poll this summer by European Values, a think tank in Prague, found that 51 percent of Czechs viewed the United States’ role in Europe negatively, only 32 percent viewed the EU positively, and at least a quarter believed some elements of the disinformation.
布拉格的智库欧洲价值(European Values)今年夏天开展的一项民意调查显示：51%的捷克人对美国在欧洲的角色持负面看法；只有32%的受访者对欧盟持正面看法；此外，至少四分之一的受访者相信虚假信息中的某些元素。
RT often seems obsessed with the United States, portraying life there as hellish. Its coverage of the Democratic National Convention, for example, skipped the speeches and focused instead on scattered demonstrations. It defends the Republican presidential nominee, Donald Trump, as an underdog maligned by the established news media.
今日俄罗斯仿佛总是抓着美国不放，把那里的生活描绘成地狱。例如，它在报道民主党全国代表大会时跳过了演讲的部分，把重心放在了零散的示威活动上。它为共和党总统提名人唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)辩护，说他是被老牌新闻媒体中伤的受害者。
Margarita Simonyan, RT’s editor-in-chief, said the channel was being singled out as a threat because it offered a different narrative from “the Anglo-American media-political establishment.” RT, she said, wants to provide “a perspective otherwise missing from the mainstream media echo chamber.”
今日俄罗斯主编玛格丽塔·西蒙尼扬(Margarita Simonyan)说，该频道之所以被当成一大威胁列出来，是因为它提供了一种不同于“英美媒体-政界权势集团”的叙事。她说，今日俄罗斯想要提供“主流媒体回音室中原本缺失的视角”。
Moscow’s targeting of the West with disinformation dates to a Cold War program the Soviets called “active measures.” The effort involved leaking or even writing stories for sympathetic newspapers in India and hoping that they would be picked up in the West, said Professor Mark Kramer, a Cold War expert at Harvard.
莫斯科借助虚假信息把矛头指向西方的做法，可以追溯至冷战时期的一项计划，苏联称之为“积极策略”。哈佛大学冷战研究专家马克·克雷默(Mark Kramer)说，该计划的内容之一是，向印度持同情立场的报纸泄露消息，甚至为其写好稿子，希望相关报道在西方得到关注。
The story that AIDS was a CIA project run amok spread that way, and it poisons the discussion of the disease decades later. At the time, before the Soviet Union’s 1991 collapse, the Kremlin was selling communism as an ideological alternative. Now, experts said, the ideological component has evaporated, but the goal of weakening adversaries remains.
艾滋病(AIDS)发端于美国中央情报局(CIA)旗下项目的传闻，就是以这种方式快速传播开来的，并在数十年后扰乱了关于这种疾病的讨论。当时还是苏联于1991年解体前，克里姆林宫正把共产主义当成可供选择的另外一种意识形态来兜售。专家称，现在，意识形态因素已经不见了，但削弱对手的目标没有变。
Whatever the method or message, Russia clearly wants to win any information war, as Dmitry Kiselyev, Russia’s most famous television anchor and the director of the organization that runs Sputnik, made clear recently.
正如俄罗斯最著名的电视主播德米特里·基谢廖夫(Dmitry Kiselyev)近期所言，不论采用什么样的方法传播什么样的讯息，俄罗斯显然想要打赢所有的信息战。基谢廖夫同时也是卫星社的运营机构的负责人。
Speaking this summer on the 75th anniversary of the Soviet Information Bureau, Kiselyev said the age of neutral journalism was over. “If we do propaganda, then you do propaganda, too,” he said, directing his message to Western journalists.
今年夏天，基谢廖夫在苏联新闻社(Soviet Information Bureau)成立75周年的庆典上表示，讲求新闻中立性的时代已经结束了。“如果我们是在做宣传，那你们也是在做宣传，”他向西方记者喊话。
“Today, it is much more costly to kill one enemy soldier than during World War II, World War I or in the Middle Ages,” he said in an interview on the state-run Rossiya 24 network. While the business of “persuasion” is more expensive now, too, he said, “if you can persuade a person, you don’t need to kill him.”
“如今，杀死一名敌兵所要付出的代价远远高于‘二战’、‘一战’期间或者中世纪，”他在接受官方的俄罗斯24电视台(Rossiya 24)采访时说。尽管“说服”别人的代价现在也水涨船高，他说，但“如果你能说服一个人，就不必杀了对方。”