Disillusioned by rampant partying, illicit drugs and racial discrimination, one Chinese student in the United States has held nothing back in telling a Chinese news outlet why he is eager to return home.
无处不在的派对、毒品和种族歧视，这些都让一位在美的中国留学生倍感绝望，于是他向一家中国新闻机构袒露了为何急于回国的心声。
“I studied film editing. There are some scenes from American streets that would never appear in mainstream American films or news programs,” the student said last week, as he told Global Times Online a story that seems both plausible and conveniently politically correct for domestic audiences.
“我是学电视剪辑专业的，有些美国街头的片段是无论如何也不会出现在美国的主旋律电影和新闻节目里的，”这位学生上周对环球网如此说道。他的叙述听起来不仅合理，而且对国内读者来说又恰好在政治上十分正确。
The student, who was quoted under the alias Liu Jun, worked in the commentary department of an unnamed Chinese news agency before heading to the United States two years ago “filled with anticipation,” the article said. He had long dreamed of experiencing a new environment in “the world’s most developed capitalist country,” it said. Where exactly he was studying and living was not disclosed.
文章写道，这位化名陆钧的学生在两年前赴美之前供职于国内一家未具名的主流媒体的评论部，“满怀着期待”来到了美国。文章说，他一直梦想到世界上“最发达的资本主义国家”去体验一个全新的环境。他生活和学习的具体地点并未透露。
But Mr. Liu said his American Dream began unraveling on his very first night there when he came across a man handing another one money for a plastic bag of what Mr. Liu suspected were drugs. One man then left the scene, while the other “acted like nothing happened,” said Mr. Liu, who immediately took a public bus back to his residence.
但陆钧说他的美国梦在第一晚就开始动摇了。他偶然见到一名男子交钱给另一名男子，换来一个塑料袋，他怀疑里面装着毒品。然后其中一人离开了现场，而另一个“好像什么事情都没发生过”，陆钧说道。于是他立刻坐上公交车回到了住处。
That wasn’t all. Come Friday and Saturday evenings, there would be parties “everywhere,” the article said, apparently basing this on Mr. Liu’s narrative. You never know from which street corner a “lunatic” is going to scurry out, it said.
但这只是个开始。每到周五周六晚上，“到处”都有派对，文章这样说，但显然是基于陆钧的描述。不知哪个街角就会窜出一个“疯子”，文章写道。
“Many times you smell something like tobacco that has been left under a cushion for a long time. That’s right, it’s marijuana,” the article said.
文章说，“很多时候，你会闻到一种，好像在坐垫下压了很久的烟草味，没错，那是大麻。”
“After living in the United States for two years, you get used to this kind of rhythm,” Mr. Liu told the Global Times reporter.
“在美国呆两年，你就会习惯这种节奏，”陆钧告诉环球网的记者。
Mr. Liu also said that people avoided him on the street while mumbling under their breath, which he attributed to racial discrimination, according to the article.
陆钧还说，走在街上，有些人看到他会刻意闪开，一边嘴里还会念念有词。在文中，陆钧将这归结为种族歧视。
Now Mr. Liu has had enough and is eager to return to China, it said. Mr. Liu did not comment on the quality of his academic courses or whether he benefited in any way from his stay.
文章说如今陆钧已经受够了这一切，只想尽快回到中国。陆钧并没有对他的学术课程质量做出任何评价，或者在美国的两年是否对他有任何益处。
“I only have one home, and that is China,” Mr. Liu said. “Some people may have told me similar things before I went abroad, but it didn’t really sink in.”
“我的家只有一个，那就是中国，”陆钧说。“也许我出国前也有人跟我说过类似的话，但我没听进去。”
Unlike the American Dream, the Chinese Dream is not beyond reach, the article said.
文章中说，中国梦并不像那个触不可及的美国梦。
A term elevated to a national slogan last year by President Xi Jinping, calling for national rejuvenation, the Chinese Dream has become a common catchphrase for government officials.
去年，“中国梦”一词经由国家主席习近平之口上升为全国性的口号，它呼吁民族的复兴，已成了政府官员时常挂在嘴边的话。
To Mr. Liu, the Chinese Dream means to work to build a country that every Chinese can be proud of. He described his hopes for a country “without rampant firearms and drugs, icy and hypocritical personal relationships, discord and discrimination, or lazy and ignorant people.”
对陆钧来说，中国梦意味着，努力打造一个值得每个中国人骄傲的国家。他描述了他所希望建设的国家将会“没有泛滥的枪支毒品，没有冰冷虚伪的人际关系，没有倾轧与歧视，没有那些懒散又不学无术的人”。
The article said that Mr. Liu wanted to return to his homeland and his family as soon as possible, and to be a “steadily striving” Chinese.
文章说，陆钧想要尽快回到祖国和家人的身边，去做一个“踏实奋斗”的中国人。
Although Mr. Liu’s story, as reported by Global Times, leaves much unexplained and cannot be confirmed, his complaints reflect some of the difficulties that many Chinese students seem to face when they go abroad. Many tend to keep quiet during class discussions and prefer cooking with other Chinese in their dorms rather than socializing in bars or at parties with local students.
环球网报道的陆钧故事有许多没有说清的地方，也无法加以核实，但他的不满却反映了许多中国学生出国后似乎要面对的困难。他们中的很多人会在课堂讨论时保持沉默，乐于在宿舍里与其他中国人一起做饭，而不愿在酒吧和派对上与本地学生社交。
Some blame the Chinese education system for producing students who rely on rote learning and have little willingness or ability to tackle unfamiliar situations. In an article for the Washington-based Chronicle of Higher Education, Jiang Xueqin, a graduate of Yale University who is now deputy principal of the prestigious Tsinghua University High School, argued that “a Chinese education does not prepare most students to study abroad.”
一些人认为这是中国教育体系的错，培养出了只会死记硬背的学生，他们没有多少意愿和能力来应对陌生的环境。在一篇为华盛顿的《高等教育纪事报》(Chronicle of Higher Education)撰写的文章中，耶鲁大学(Yale University)毕业生、著名的清华大学附中副校长江学勤指出，“中国教育并不能为多数学生打好留学基础。”
“Many Chinese students don’t know what they think because their parents and teachers just order them about,” Mr. Jiang wrote. “Their education alienates them from one another, from the world in which they live, and ultimately from themselves. Unable to construct a self-narrative, they may live comfortably in their bubble but have problems overcoming new challenges.”
“许多中国学生不知道他们的想法，因为他们的家长和老师会告诉他们怎么做，”江学勤写道。“他们的教育让他们相互隔绝，与他们生活的世界隔绝，最终和他们自己隔绝。无法产生自我叙事认同，他们也许可以舒适地生活在自己的泡泡里，但却无法克服任何新的挑战。”
However, despite the horror stories – Mr. Liu’s is not the first tale of Chinese struggling in foreign lands reported by local news media – more Chinese students than ever are setting their sights abroad. And the United States is still the top choice for many.
然而，尽管有这样可怕的故事——陆钧并非新闻媒体报道的第一例挣扎在异乡的中国人——更多的中国学生正在望向海外。对很多人来说，美国依然是首选。
According to a Chinese Ministry of Education report last year, the United States remained the No. 1 destination for self-financed Chinese students between 2012 and 2013. Chinese students made up nearly 30 percent of foreign students in the United States last year, the largest contingent from any country, according to the U.S.-based Institute of International Education.
根据中国教育部去年的一份报告，2012年到2013年间，美国依然是中国自费留学生的第一目的地。据美国的国际教育协会(Institute of International Education)统计，中国学生人数占了美国国际学生总数的将近30%，是所有国家中最多的。