SEOUL, South Korea — Just 10 days ago, when news broke that the Trump administration was sending the aircraft carrier Carl Vinson to the Korean Peninsula, many South Koreans feared a possible war with North Korea. Others cheered for Washington, calling the deployment a powerful symbol of its commitment to deterring the North.
韩国首尔——就在10天前，当特朗普政府将“卡尔文森号”(Carl Vinson)航空母舰派往朝鲜半岛水域的消息传来时，许多韩国人担心可能要爆发与朝鲜的战争。也有些人为华盛顿喝彩，称部署航母是美国承诺遏制朝鲜的一个强有力的象征。
On Wednesday, after it was revealed that the carrier strike group was actually thousands of miles away and had been sailing in the opposite direction, toward the Indian Ocean, it left South Koreans feeling bewildered, cheated and even manipulated by the United States, their country’s most important ally.
周三，该航母打击编队实际上是在数千英里远的水域、向南（而不是向北）驶入印度洋的情况公布之后，韩国人感到困惑、被骗，甚至被该国最重要的盟友美国操纵了。
“Trump’s lie over the Carl Vinson,” read a headline on the website of the newspaper JoongAng Ilbo on Wednesday.
“特朗普的卡尔文森谎言”，韩国报纸《中央日报》网站上周三的一个大标题这样写道。
“Like North Korea, which is often accused of displaying fake missiles during military parades, is the United States, too, now employing ‘bluffing’ as its North Korea policy?” the article asked.
“朝鲜经常被指责在阅兵式上展示假导弹，难道美国也和朝鲜一样，把‘唬人’作为其朝鲜政策吗？”该文章问道。
The episode raised questions about whether major allies of the United States, like South Korea and Japan, had been informed of the carrier’s whereabouts, and whether the misinformation undercut America’s strategy to contain North Korea’s nuclear ambitions by using empty threats.
这件事不禁让人提出一些问题，美国的主要盟友（比如韩国和日本）是否被告知航母的行程，使用空洞威胁发出的错误信息是否削弱了美国遏制朝鲜核野心的战略。
American aircraft carriers regularly visit waters near the Korean Peninsula as part of annual military exercises with South Korea and Japan. But when the United States Pacific Command said on April 9 that the Carl Vinson had been ordered to leave Singapore and return to the Western Pacific, the decision was considered highly unusual, as it had been in exercises off the Korean Peninsula just last month.
作为与韩国和日本年度军事演习的一部分，美国航空母舰会定期进入朝鲜半岛附近水域。但是，当美国太平洋司令部4月9日表示，卡尔文森号接到命令离开新加坡、返回西太平洋时，这个决定被是极为不寻常的，因为这艘航母上个月刚在朝鲜半岛水域参加了军演。
“We’re sending an armada,” President Trump said 10 days ago.
“我们正在派出一个大型舰队，”特朗普总统10天前曾这样说。
On Wednesday, the South Korean Defense Ministry declined to comment, other than to say that the United States and South Korea do not discuss the details of their joint strategy to deter North Korean provocations.
周三，韩国国防部拒绝对此发表评论，只是表示，美国和韩国不讨论他们遏制朝鲜挑衅联合战略的细节。
But critics accused the ministry of fanning jitters among South Koreans before a May 9 presidential election in which North Korea’s behavior has been a central issue — as have Seoul’s close military ties to Washington.
但批评人士指责国防部在5月9日总统大选之前，在韩国人中制造紧张不安。朝鲜的行为是大选讨论的一个中心问题，首尔与华盛顿的密切军事关系也是大选讨论的问题。
“There is no way for South Korea not to have known that the Carl Vinson would not be in Korean waters last Saturday,” said Kim Dong-yub, a former navy officer and defense analyst at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies at Kyungnam University in Seoul. “Still, they kept mum, doing nothing to ease the anxiety when security was a key election issue.”
“韩国不可能不知道卡尔文森号上周六不会出现在朝鲜半岛水域，”金东烨（Kim Dong-yub，音）说，他是前海军军官，现任首尔庆南大学(Kyungnam University)远东研究所的国防分析师。“尽管如此，他们一言不发，在安全是大选的一个主要问题时，不采取任何措施来缓解社会上的焦虑。”
“What they did was nothing short of trying to influence the election,” Mr. Kim said. “The whole episode is a reminder of how fettered South Korea remains to its alliance with the United States.”
“他们这样做简直就是在试图影响大选，”金东烨说。“这件事提醒人们，韩国在什么程度上被其与美国的联盟所束缚。”
Shin In-kyun, a military expert who runs the civic group Korea Defense Network, said that Mr. Trump appeared to have used the Carl Vinson as a feint aimed at preventing North Korea from conducting a nuclear test.
公民组织韩国防卫网(Korea Defense Network)运营者、军事专家申尹均（Shin In-kyun，音）说，为了防止朝鲜进行核试验，特朗普似乎用卡尔文森号虚晃了一招。
“It would have been very awkward for the South Korean military to come out and clarify when they knew that Trump was bluffing,” Mr. Shin said. “The bluffing worked, in fact. North Korea didn’t do a nuclear test last Saturday.”
“当韩国军方知道特朗普是在虚张声势时，他们出来澄清会是非常尴尬的，”申尹均说。“事实上，这次虚张声势是有效的。朝鲜周六没有进行核试验。”
Coupled with Mr. Trump’s order to strike a Syrian air base with dozens of missiles, and repeated warnings from his senior aides that “military options” were not off the table in dealing with North Korea, news of the Carl Vinson rushing back to Korean waters stirred anxiety in South Korea.
特朗普曾下令发射几十枚导弹打击叙利亚一个空军基地，他的高级助手也多次警告说，不排除用“军事选择”处理朝鲜问题，把这些联系起来，卡尔文森号正快速开往朝鲜半岛水域的消息在韩国引发了焦虑。
The fear was that if North Korea were to conduct a nuclear or long-range missile test on Saturday to commemorate the 105th anniversary of the birth of Kim Il-sung, the North’s founding president and the grandfather of Kim Jong-un, the Carl Vinson would be in Korean waters by then to launch a pre-emptive strike.
人们担心的是，如果为了纪念朝鲜开国元首、金正恩的祖父金日成诞辰105周年，朝鲜周六进行核武器或远程导弹试验的话，那时卡尔文森号会已经进入朝鲜半岛水域，能够进行先发制人的打击。
North Korea, never one to be outdone in tough talk, accused the United States of bringing war to Korea and vowed to respond with nuclear attacks at American military bases in South Korea and Japan. This week, it unveiled a video depicting its missiles engulfing an American city in flames, shown as a backdrop for the Kim Il-sung celebration.
朝鲜在发表强硬说法方面从来不让人，它指责美国在朝鲜半岛制造战争，并发誓要对美国在韩国和日本的军事基地进行核打击。本周，朝鲜公布了一段视频，其中有朝鲜导弹的火焰吞没美国城市的画面，视频是为庆祝金日成诞辰作背景的。
In South Korea, all major candidates for the presidential election issued statements warning that a pre-emptive American strike would set off a full-scale war on the Korean Peninsula. They intensified their bickering over who was best suited to keep the peace on the peninsula.
在韩国，总统选举的所有主要候选人都发表声明警告美国，先发制人会在朝鲜半岛引发全面战争。候选人对他们中谁最有能力维持半岛和平的争吵也在加剧。
Kim Ky-baek, who runs the nationalist South Korean website Minjokcorea, expressed fears that the Carl Vinson episode would damage Mr. Trump’s credibility among South Koreans.
民族主义的韩国网站Minjokcorea的运营人金箕白（Kim Ky-baek，音）对卡尔文森号一事表示担心，认为这会损害特朗普在韩国的信誉。
“Trump may say this was part of his smoke-screen tactic,” he said. “But the impression we get is that the Trump administration still doesn’t know what it is really trying to do with North Korea, and has no clear and efficient line of communication.”
“特朗普可能会说，这是他烟幕弹战术的一部分，”金箕白说。“但我们得到的印象是，特朗普政府仍然不知道它究竟要试图怎样对付朝鲜，而且也没有明确有效的沟通渠道。”
When the chief cabinet secretary Yoshihide Suga, the Japanese government spokesman, was asked about the issue at his daily news briefing on Wednesday, he declined to address the misreported itinerary directly.
当日本首席内阁官员、政府发言人菅直人在周三的新闻发布会上被问及这个问题时，他拒绝直接回答有关航母行程的错误报道一事。
“It’s an operational matter for the United States military,” he said.
他说，“那是美国军队的军事行动。”
But Hideshi Takesada, a professor at the Institute of World Studies at Takushoku University in Japan, said it was inconceivable that the Japanese military was unaware of plans for the Carl Vinson’s deployment.
但是，日本拓殖大学世界研究所的武贞秀士教授表示，不可想象日本军方对卡尔文森号的部署计划不知情。
“When it comes to matters that concern Japan, the two militaries communicate essentially in real time,” he said.
“在涉及日本关心的问题时，日美两国军队基本上是在进行实时交流，”他说。
By allowing misconceptions about the strike group’s location to persist, he added, the Trump administration had ratcheted up pressure on North Korea. Officials in Tokyo effectively cooperated by not speaking out.
他补充说，特朗普政府通过让外界保持对打击编队所在位置的误解，增加了对朝鲜的压力。东京的官员对此缄口实际上是在合作。
“Whatever the case, whether it was deliberate misinformation or a miscommunication between the Pentagon and the White House, it’s quite serious,” said Narushige Michishita, a specialist in international security at the National Graduate Institute for Policy Studies in Tokyo. “It undermines the credibility of U.S. leadership.”
“不管怎么说，是有意制造错误信息，还是五角大楼与白宫之间沟通不畅，都是相当严重的问题，”东京政策研究大学院大学的国际安全问题专家道下德成说。“这损害了美国领导人的信誉。”
The United States continues to adopt a muscular posture toward North Korea, however, with Vice President Mike Pence promising during a visit to Japan on Wednesday that Washington would give an “overwhelming and effective” response to the use of conventional or nuclear weapons.
但是，美国仍在对朝鲜采取强硬态度，副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)周三访日本时承诺，华盛顿对使用常规武器或核武器将给予“压倒性的有效”回应。
The Carl Vinson is now actually headed to the Korean Peninsula and is expected to arrive in the region next week, Pentagon officials say. April 25 is another major anniversary in North Korea, the birthday of the Korean People’s Army, and some analysts say the North might try to celebrate with a major provocation.
五角大楼官员说，卡尔文森号目前实际上是在前往朝鲜半岛水域，预计下周到达该地区。4月25日是朝鲜的又一个重要周年纪念日，朝鲜人民军建军日，有些分析人士说，朝鲜也许会以重大挑衅的方式进行庆祝。
In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Rear Adm. James W. Kilby, commander of the Carl Vinson carrier strike group, said its deployment “has been extended 30 days to provide a persistent presence in the waters off the Korean Peninsula.”
卡尔文森号航空母舰打击编队的指挥官詹姆斯·W·基尔比(James W. Kilby)周三在Facebook上发文表示，编队的调动期“已延长了30天，以在朝鲜半岛水域继续执行任务”。