When a passenger was forcibly removed from his seat aboard an April 9 United Airlines flight to Louisville, Ky., before it left the gate in Chicago, the video taken by onlookers seemed to capture the mood in the air: us versus them.
4月9日，乘坐联合航空(United Airlines)航班飞往肯塔基州路易斯维尔的一名乘客在飞机离开芝加哥的登机口之前被强行从座位上带走，旁观者拍摄的视频似乎捕捉到了机舱里的情绪：这是“我们”和“他们”的对立。
“There’s a lot of blame to go around, not the least of which is the overall culture of aviation where customer service issues have become law enforcement issues,” said Gary Leff, author of the travel blog Viewfromthewing.com. “Rather than practicing de-escalation, any disagreement with the crew becomes seen as a threat.”
“造成这样的局面有很多原因，其中很重要的一点就是航空业的整体文化，乘客服务问题已经变成了执法问题，”旅游博客Viewfromthewing.com的作者加里·莱夫(Gary Leff)说。“乘客与机组人员的任何意见分歧不但不会被淡化处理，还会一概被视为威胁。”
How the industry reached the unfriendly skies is a journey that goes back to 9/11, which ushered in greater security regulations and carry-on restrictions. In the aftermath of 9/11, “not following crew instructions immediately could be seen as a threat, and they take all threats seriously,” Mr. Leff said. “Airline employees are in positions of extreme power and authority.” Noting that not all crews are authoritarian, he added, “the emphasis has shifted.”
这个行业之所以达到如此不友好的顶点，可以追溯到9·11事件，这一事件导致了更多的安全规定，以及对随身行李的限制。在9·11事件之后，“不遵从机组人员的指示被视为威胁，而且他们把所有的威胁都看得很严重。”莱夫说。“航空公司的员工有绝对的权力，处于权威的地位。”但他还说，并不是所有机组人员都是权力主义者，只是“重点已经变了。”
Adding to the challenges were the global recession and the fuel price spikes of 2008, when the number of fliers dropped and the cost to fly them soared.
全球经济衰退和2008年的燃料价格上涨也为航空业增添了挑战，那一年里，坐飞机的人数减少，飞行成本急剧上升。
“That sequence of 9/11, the fuel price spike and the recession forced airlines to reinvent themselves in a way that they probably always would have been if it was a clean sheet project,” said Seth Kaplan, managing partner of Airline Weekly, an industry publication.
 “9·11、燃料价格飙升以及经济衰退这一系列问题，退迫使航空公司进行改革，可以说如果是从零开始，他们大概就会是现在这个样子，”行业刊物《航线周刊》(Airline Weekly)合作人塞思·卡普兰(Seth Kaplan)说。
Before the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, the government controlled airfares and routes, and airlines vied to differentiate themselves with meals and leg room. They hung on to these conventions, for the most part, until around 2008 when that reinvention introduced the idea of unbundling services like checked bags and meals, making them pay-per-use options.
1978年的“航空解除管制法”(Airline Deregulation Act)之前，航空公司的机票和线路都由政府控制，各家航空公司靠提供不同的餐饮和伸腿空间同其他公司竞争。这些惯例一直保持到了2008年左右，彼时的改革引入了区别计价服务的做法，例如托运行李和餐点都成了点选付费(pay-per-use)的选项。
Airlines also cut capacity, flying fewer planes with more people aboard. When the economy rebounded, most carriers stuck with the practice or put more seats on bigger planes.
航空公司也削减了运载能力，让更少的飞机搭载更多人员。当经济反弹之后，大多数航运公司坚持这种做法，或在更大的飞机上放置更多座位。
“Their policy now is that capacity discipline is key to maintaining airline profitability,” said Douglas Kidd, the executive director of the National Association of Airline Passengers, a group that advocates more transparency in fares, more comfort in the air and less intrusive security measures. “In the past, so many airlines were vying for market share. Now with consolidation, with four to five major airlines, they don’t have to worry about market share.”
“现在，他们的政策是，运力管理是维持航空公司盈利能力的关键”，航空公司乘客全国协会(National Association of Airline Passengers)执行董事道格拉斯·基德(Douglas Kidd)表示，该组织主张在票价方面实现更多透明度，令乘客在空中更舒适，减少令人反感的安全措施。“在过去，有很多航空公司都在争取市场份额。现在随着整合，市场上有了四五家大的航空公司，他们不用担心市场份额。”
Deregulation led to competitive pricing and new low-cost carrier entries like Southwest Airlines that democratized air travel in the United States. According to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, the average domestic fare in 1995 in today’s dollars was $459. In 2016, the average was $349, down nearly 24percent.
放松管制带来了有竞争力的价格，令西南航空公司这样的低成本新航司得以进入市场，带来了美国航空旅行的平民化。据运输统计局的数字，1995年国内平均机票价格为459美元。2016年平均价格为349美元，下降了近24％。
But even a good deal can contribute to frustration in the air when a ticket on one carrier offers more or fewer services than another, making it hard to compare fares. Southwest fares, for example, include checked bags, Delta Air Lines charges most passengers to check a bag, and Spirit Airlines charges for checked and carry-on baggage.
但是买到好价机票都有可能是恶劣飞行体验的原因之一，比如一家航司机票内包括的服务比另一家航司机票内的服务更多或更少时，票价就很难去比较。例如，西南航空公司的票价包括托运一件行李，达美航空公司(Delta Air Lines)对大部分乘客收取托运行李的费用，而精神航空公司(Spirit Airline)对随身行李和托运行李都要收取费用。
“It’s not just between airlines but within the carrier, where different classes like economy or premium economy mean different things,” Mr. Kaplan said.
“不仅在不同航空公司，同一飞机内，经济舱或豪华经济舱之类不同等级的机票，提供的服务也有各种不同，”卡普兰说。
Still, a ticket guarantees a flight, right? Yes, but as the United case illustrates, not necessarily the one a passenger has booked.
不过我们还是要问，机票真能保证你的航程吗？是的，但正如联合航空的情况所示，不一定是乘客订购的那次航班。
“When you buy a ticket, you subscribe to a Contract of Carriage that says basically that they can remove you at any time for many reasons, from the government requesting the space to you not smelling good,” said Mr. Kidd of the airline passengers’ association.
“当你买票时，你就等于签订了一份运输合同，合同上说，基本上他们可以随时取消你的航程，原因有很多，从政府请求机上空间到你体味不佳，”航空公司乘客全国协会的基德说。
The carrier is obligated to transport the passenger by rebooking the flier on a future flight. At that point, the airline must compensate the passenger based on the destination and length of delay.
航空公司有义务运载这名乘客，为其在未来的航班上重新预定座位。此时航空公司必须根据目的地和延误时间来补偿这名乘客。
United’s terms, which are standard in the industry, stipulate that the airline must compensate passengers on domestic flights who were involuntarily denied boarding on an oversold flight at double the fare they paid, up to $675, if the alternative flight is scheduled to arrive less than two hours after the original flight. Beyond that it must pay four times the original fare, up to $1,350.
联合航空的规定符合业界标准，它规定，国内航班如果出现超售，对于非自愿被拒登机的乘客，如果替代航班能在原航班抵达两小时内到达目的地，公司必须赔偿乘客两倍于机票的金额，最高可达675美元。除此之外，则必须支付原始票价的四倍，最高可达1350美元。
Normally these sorts of boarding decisions are made in the gate area and rarely occur on the flight. In the United case, forcibly bumping a passenger contributed to tension not just on that plane but across the industry. (United recently announced that it was offering all passengers on Flight 3411 reimbursement for the cost of their ticket.)
通常这类登机决定都在登机口进行，很少在飞机上发生。在联合航空的事件中，强行拖拽乘客不仅在这架飞机上引发了紧张情绪，也给整个行业造成了紧张局面。（联合航空最近宣布，它为3411航班所有乘客提供赔偿）。
“It’s important to follow the directions of flight crew members, but when they don’t seem to make a lot of sense, it hurts aviation security as a whole,” said Jeffrey C. Price, professor of aviation management at Metropolitan State University of Denver.
“遵循机组人员的指示很重要，但是当这些指示似乎没什么道理的时候，就会从整体上损害航空安全，”丹佛大都会州立大学航空管理学教授杰弗里·C·普莱斯(Jeffrey C. Price)说。
Ejecting a flier may be legal, but it also affects passenger perceptions of an airline, even if passengers are required to follow a flight crew’s instructions, including surrendering a seat.
逐出一名乘客可能是合法的，但也会影响乘客对航空公司的看法，即便乘客必须遵守机组人员的指示，包括放弃座位。
“There is a lot of research in organizational settings that suggests perceptions of unfairness lead to anger, hostility and spiteful behavior,” wrote Elizabeth Popp Berman, an associate professor of sociology at the University at Albany in an email. “When an airline’s decision to remove passengers is seen as unfair because it does not conform to expectations about passengers’ rights or the airline’s obligations, it is not surprising that passengers will become less compliant.”
“在组织设置方面的很多研究表明，不公平的感觉会导致愤怒、敌意与恶意的行为，”奥尔巴尼大学社会学副教授伊丽莎白·波普·伯曼(Elizabeth Popp Berman)在电子邮件中写道。“如果一家航空公司带走乘客的举动不符合人们对乘客权利或航空公司义务的期待，就会被视为不公平的行为，那么乘客会变得不那么顺从也就不足为奇。”