SEPANG, Malaysia — A satellite image of an indistinct, pale object floating in the ocean far off the west coast of Australia, published on Saturday by the Chinese authorities, is the latest of a succession of elusive clues in what has already become one of aviation’s greatest mysteries.
马来西亚雪邦——中国当局上周六发布的一幅卫星图像显示，一个模糊泛白的物体漂浮在远离澳大利亚西海岸的洋面上。这幅图像涉及航空史上最大的谜团之一，是其一系列难以捉摸的线索中最新的一个。
In an era when satellites, cellphones and radar would seem to be everywhere, a 328-ton jetliner nearly 200 feet from wingtip to wingtip has completely vanished, and for nearly two weeks searchers have not found a single material indication of its fate.
在这个卫星、手机和雷达似乎无处不在的时代，一架重328吨、翼展近200英尺（约61米）的喷气式飞机已完全消失了踪影，搜索者在近两周的时间里连一个能够揭示其命运的可靠证据都还没有找到。
Vague shapes photographed by satellites above the southern Indian Ocean appear to be the likeliest lead so far, but they, too, may turn out to be mirages, like a succession of previous false sightings of the plane, a Boeing 777-200, and rumors about Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which disappeared about 40 minutes after takeoff on March 8.
卫星在南印度洋上空拍下的模糊物体，似乎是迄今为止最有希望的线索，但它们也可能是泡影一场，就像之前一连串有关马航MH370客机的传言，以及说有人目击一架波音777-200的许多假消息一样。这架客机于3月8日起飞约40分钟后就消失了。
On Saturday, the Chinese government said one of its satellites had spotted an “unusual object” on Tuesday in an area where Australia had already organized a search. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said Chinese planes and ships would try to reach the area and look for the whitish object, about 74 feet by 43 feet. It was spotted about 65 nautical miles southwest of the spot where, two days earlier, another satellite captured similar images of floating objects, which the Australian government said might be wreckage from the jet.
中国政府上周六表示，上周二，在澳大利亚已经组织进行搜索活动的一片区域，一颗中国卫星发现了一个“疑似物体”。中国外交部表示，中国飞机和船只将争取达到这片海域，搜寻这个长约74英尺、宽约43英尺的泛白物体。它被发现两天之前，在其西南65海里处，另一颗卫星也捕捉到了一些漂浮物的类似图像，澳大利亚政府说它们可能是飞机的残骸。
“It looks consistent with what the Australian picture shows,” said Sean O’Connor, a former United States Air Force intelligence officer who is a consultant to IHS Jane’s for imagery analysis, after comparing the pictures released by both governments. Currents may have pushed the object to a new location during that time, he said.
“这幅图像看起来跟澳大利亚的图像是一致的。”肖恩·奥康纳(Sean O'Connor)在比较过两国政府发布的图像后说，他曾是美国空军情报官员，目前是简氏信息集团(IHS Jane's)的图像分析顾问。他说，在这段时间里，洋流可能把该物体带到了新的位置。
The coordinates provided with the Chinese satellite images are highly consistent with the location of the last recorded “ping” that Inmarsat, a satellite communications company, detected from the missing plane, according to one person familiar with the coordinates that Inmarsat submitted to Malaysian investigators. Inmarsat declined to comment.
中国跟卫星图像一起提供的坐标，跟卫星通讯公司Inmarsat从这架失踪飞机最后记录下的ping信号位置非常一致，据一位了解Inmarsat提交给马来西亚的经纬坐标的人称。Inmarsat拒绝对此置评。
But debris in the ocean can sink or simply elude searchers, especially in vast and often rough waters. Late on Saturday, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, which has coordinated the hunt in the southern Indian Ocean, said the location reported by the Chinese government fell within a search zone that ships and planes had already patrolled that day. “The object was not sighted on Saturday,” the authority said in an email.
但海洋中的残骸可能会沉入水底，也有可能搜寻者无论如何就是无法发现它们，尤其是在浩瀚无垠、时常波涛汹涌的水域。周六晚上，负责协调南印度洋搜索行动的澳大利亚海事安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)表示，中国政府报告的位置，属于舰艇和飞机当天已经巡逻过的搜索区。“周六没有看到这个物体。”澳大利亚海事安全局在一封电子邮件中说。
The continuing uncertainty, with no conclusive evidence of what happened to the plane and the people on it, has tormented relatives of those on board and flummoxed aviation experts, security policy makers and travelers.
一直没有确凿证据显示这架飞机及乘客和机组人员究竟发生了什么事，持续的不确定性让失联人员家属、困惑的航空专家、安全策略制定者和旅客们感到十分苦恼。
More than two dozen countries are on the hunt from land, air, space and sea for any visible scrap of wing, tail or engine. Investigators from law enforcement and aviation safety agencies from across the world have combed through the backgrounds of all the passengers, and so far have revealed no potential suspects.
有二十多个国家正在从陆地、空中、太空和海上寻找MH370机翼、尾部或发动机的任何可见碎片。来自世界各地的执法和航空安全机构的研究人员已经仔细梳理过所有乘客的背景，到目前为止还没有发现任何潜在的嫌疑人。
The search is of such complexity and reach that most countries would struggle to manage it.
这次搜索的过程如此复杂，范围如此广泛，大多数国家都难以应对。
Many aviation safety experts and some government officials have said the Malaysian government’s sometimes maladroit handling of the crisis, including miscommunication between its military and its civilian government and the seemingly poor grasp of detail, have magnified uncertainty and confusion about the plane’s fate.
很多航空安全专家和一些政府官员表示，马来西亚政府在处理这场危机时手忙脚乱，比如其军队和文职政府之间沟通不畅，以及对细节似乎把握不当，这些都放大了MH370命运的不确定性和混乱程度。
The search has demanded cooperation from governments crisscrossed by mutual distrust and, in some cases, outright enmity. Malaysia has urged them to focus on finding the plane, but officials of some other governments have privately accused Malaysia of hesitancy in putting that ahead of worries about security and plain pride.
搜索行动需要一些互不信任的国家开展合作，有些国家甚至互相敌视。马来西亚呼吁他们把重点放在寻找飞机上，但其他一些政府的官员已私下里指责马来西亚犹豫不决，没有尽快把寻找失联飞机一事置于担忧安全性和维护自尊之上。
French officials said on March 9 that they had offered their help. But no response was received from the Malaysians for the better part of a week, and it was not until last Sunday that France announced that a team of three investigators from its Bureau d’Enquêtes et d’Analyses had departed for Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, to share expertise gleaned from the two-year search for an Air France jet that disappeared off the coast of Brazil in 2009.
法国官员在3月9日表示，他们已经主动提出帮忙寻找失联客机。但大半个星期的时间里都没有收到马来西亚人的回复，直到上周日，法国才宣布，一个有三名调查员的小组已经启程前往马来西亚首都吉隆坡，分享从2009年在巴西海岸失踪的法航客机进行的两年搜索中积累的专业知识。
The Malaysians have kept American investigators at a distance since the plane vanished on March 8, angering some lawmakers in Washington who believe that the F.B.I. should have been playing a larger role from the beginning. A small team of F.B.I. agents in Malaysia has received briefings on the investigation, but it has not been asked to help.
自从这架客机于3月8日失去联系之后，马来西亚人一直没有允许美国调查员的介入，激怒了华盛顿的一些国会议员，他们相信联邦调查局(FBI)本应从一开始就发挥更大的作用。FBI在马来西亚的一个特工小组收到过调查进程的简报，但马来西亚政府还没有向他们求助。
As recently as last weekend, American aviation investigators in Malaysia told the government there that it was searching for the plane in the wrong areas, and that it needed to redirect its search to the Indian Ocean, according to a person briefed on the inquiry. The American investigators were also concerned that the Malaysian officials were not sharing all the information they had from their radar systems, the person said.
一位知情人士说，上周末，美国在马来西亚的航空调查员告诉马来西亚政府，他们找错了地方，应该调整方向去印度洋。此人还说，美国调查员也对马来西亚官员没有共享该国的雷达系统信息感到担忧。
The American investigators believe that the Malaysian government was reluctant to share information with them because they fear exposing their weak radar and satellite systems. It took the Malaysians several days to share data from the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, which collected information from the plane that was relayed to the ground before it vanished from civilian radar, the person said. Typically, that information is shared with investigators and other countries in the day or so after a plane has crashed or disappeared.
美国调查员认为，马来西亚政府不愿与他们分享信息，是因为害怕暴露自己能力有限的雷达和卫星系统。这名知情人士说，马来西亚几天之后才分享了来自飞机通信寻址与报告系统（AircraftCommunication Addressing and Reporting System，简称Acars）的信息；在民用雷达失去MH370的踪迹之前，Acars从MH370收集的信息被传递到地面。通常，当一架飞机坠毁或失去联系之后，这些信息应该在大约一天的时间里就共享给调查员和其他国家。