The fact that Egyptian authorities said that they were looking into whether terrorism had caused the crash of the EgyptAir flight from Paris to Cairo early Thursday morning raised fears about the safety of air travel and also traveling in general. Here’s what you need to know about staying safe in the skies and on the ground.
埃及当局表示他们正在展开调查，以确认恐怖主义是否是上周四凌晨埃及航空公司(EgyptAir)从巴黎飞往开罗的航班坠毁的原因，这引发了人们对航空旅行以及其他旅行方式的担忧。要想在航空和地面旅行中做到安全，你需要了解以下几点。
The EgyptAir flight 804 that crashed originated in Paris. Does this mean that the city and France in general are at an increased risk for a terrorist attack?
坠毁的埃航804航班是从巴黎出发的。这是否意味着，巴黎和法国遭受恐怖袭击的风险增加了？
Yes, but so are other countries in Europe, including Belgium, Germany and the United Kingdom, said Nick Doyle, a terrorism expert and managing director of the security risk management practice at Kroll. “Intelligence says that an attack is highly likely, but, obviously, no one knows when or where,” he said.
是的，而且还包括比利时、德国和英国等欧洲其他国家，反恐专家、克罗尔(Kroll)安全风险管理董事总经理尼克·多伊尔(Nick Doyle)表示，他还说，“情报显示，发生袭击的可能性非常大，但很明显，没有人知道会在何时何地发生。”
So, should I avoid traveling to France since this recent possible attack happened on a flight departing France? 
所以，由于近期进出法国的飞机可能遭受恐怖袭击，我应该避免前往法国？
There is no reason not to travel to France, according to Martin Stone, the head of Europe, Middle East and Africa for the New York City-based global investigation firm Nardello & Co., but travelers should be aware that there are several major sports events happening in the country over the next several months such as the French Open, taking place now through early June; the UEFA European Championship, the soccer tournament from June 10 through July 10; and the Tour de France, starting July 2. Large-scale events like these, said Mr. Stone, are potential terrorist targets.
马丁·斯通(Martin Stone)认为，大家没有理由不去法国，他是总部位于纽约的全球性调查公司纳德尔罗(Nardello＆Co.)的欧洲、中东和非洲区负责人。但旅客也应该明白，这几个月法国有一些重要的体育赛事，比如现在举行的法国网球公开赛到6月初结束，从6月10日到7月10日要举行欧足联(UEFA)的欧洲足球锦标赛，环法自行车赛从7月2日开赛。斯通说，像这样的大型赛事是恐怖分子的潜在目标。
The plane that crashed was headed to Cairo. Does that mean that Egypt is an unsafe travel destination?
失事飞机是飞往开罗的。这意味着到埃及旅行不太安全吗？
It’s hard to say whether Egypt is categorically unsafe, according to Rana Feghali, the head of Nardello’s Dubai practice. But, she said, since the EgyptAir plane had stops in Tunisia and Cairo, a security breach in one of those destinations could have led to an explosive device being loaded onto the plane. That said, the cause of the crash has not yet been determined.
据纳德尔迪拜办事处负责人拉娜·费加利(Rana Feghali)称，很难说埃及是不是绝对不安全。但她表示，鉴于埃及航空那架飞机在突尼斯和开罗都降落过，这些目的地中任何一个地方的安全漏洞都可能导致爆炸装置被送上飞机。但话又说回来，飞机坠毁的原因是尚未确定的。
What are the chances of a terrorist attack happening on a plane?
飞机上发生恐怖袭击的可能性有多大？
Very small. An estimated 3.5 billion people flew globally in 2015 according to the International Air Transport Association, a trade association for the world’s airlines. According to Perry Flint, the organization’s head of corporate communications in the Americas, that same year, there were two deliberate acts of unlawful interference against commercial transport aircrafts that led to the loss of passenger lives: Germanwings 9525 because of a pilot suicide and Metrojet 9268 where terrorism is the suspected cause. Both of these incidents resulted in the deaths of 374 passengers and crew- barely a fraction of the total number of fliers.
非常小。由全世界的航空公司组成的行业组织国际航空运输协会(International Air Transport Association)估计，2015年全球航空客运量为35亿人次。据该组织的美洲企业沟通负责人佩里·弗林特(Perry Flint)表示，同年，故意非法干预商业运输机并导致乘客殒命的行为只有两起：德国之翼(Germanwings)的9525航班和Metrojet公司的9268航班。前者是因为飞行员自杀，后者的原因怀疑是恐怖主义。两起事件导致374名乘客和机组成员死亡，仅为机组人员和飞机乘客总数的一小部分。
The risk of air terrorism may be small said Mike Ackerman, the founder and chairman of the Ft. Lauderdale-based security consulting firm Ackerman Group who is an expert in travel-related terrorism, but the fear around it is big. “The incidence of air terrorism is statistically insignificant but psychologically significant because it’s so terrifying,” he said.
总部设在劳德代尔堡的安全咨询公司阿克曼集团(Ackerman Group)的创始人兼董事长、旅行相关恐怖主义问题专家迈克·阿克曼(Mike Ackerman)则表示，空中恐怖主义的风险可能比较小，却会引起严重担忧。“空中恐怖主义发生的几率从统计上来说微乎其微，但对人们的心理影响却很大，因为太可怕了，”他说。
Is it safer to fly domestically within the United States than internationally?
在美国国内坐飞机是否比搭乘国际航班更安全？
T.J. Schulz, the president of the trade association Airport Consultants Council and an aviation security expert, said that the risk of air terrorism domestically is extremely low. “The last successful air terrorist attack in the U.S. was 9/11, and though there have been attempts since then like the underwear and shoe bombers, the airport security at U.S. airports is far more rigorous and layered now than it was when 9/11 happened which makes an attack much more difficult,” he said.
行业组织机场咨询委员会(Airport Consultants Council)主席、航空安全专家T·J·舒尔茨(T.J. Schulz)表示，美国国内发生空中恐怖主义的风险极低。“上一次在美国得逞的空中恐怖袭击是9·11。在那之后，尽管有人试图将爆炸物藏在内衣或鞋子里，但均未能得逞。美国机场的安全措施远比9·11时更严格，层级更多，这大大增加了袭击难度，”他说。
Is there anything I can do to stay safe from air terrorism?
为了远离空中恐怖主义，我能做些什么？
Mr. Ackerman advises travelers to limit their air travel to carriers from industrialized countries because they tend to have the most thorough security standards. “Fliers sometimes want to avoid American carriers because they think that America is a terrorist target, but American airlines and other industrialized countries have rigorous security screening procedures,” he said.
阿克曼建议旅客选择来自工业化国家的航空公司，因为它们的安全标准往往是最缜密的。“旅客有时候希望避开美国的航空公司，因为他们认为美国是恐怖分子的袭击目标，但美国和其他工业化国家的的航空公司的安检程序是最严格的，”他说。
How can I protect myself from terrorism in general?
总的来说，我怎么才能保护自己远离恐怖主义？
Mr. Doyle says that travelers should be aware of any potential safety risks at the destination they’re heading to. And, in a recent New York Times article on travel to Europe, Tim Horner, the head of Kroll’s security risk management practice, advised avoiding crowded areas such as concert halls and stadiums and having an exit strategy in place if you do go. He also suggested knowing how to get around the city you’re in, emailing your itinerary and copies of your travel documents, including your passport, to family members, and limiting the amount of personal information you carry (no need to tote along all your credit cards).
多伊尔表示，旅客应该清楚自己要前往的目的地存在的所有潜在安全风险。《纽约时报》前不久刊登了一篇文章，介绍去欧洲旅行的相关事宜。克罗尔的安全风险管理负责人蒂姆·霍纳(Tim Horner)在文中建议避开拥挤的地方，如音乐厅和体育场，要去的话也要制定好逃生策略。他还建议要清楚如何在所在的城市四处观光，将行程和护照等旅行证件的副本用电子邮件的形式寄给家人，以及限制身上携带的个人信息（无需带上所有信用卡）。