Airlines routinely use satellites to provide Wi-Fi for passengers. But for years they have failed to use a similar technology for a far more basic task: tracking planes and their black-box flight recorders.
航空公司常常利用卫星来为乘客提供Wi-Fi服务。然而多年来，它们一直没能利用类似的技术来完成一项基本得多的任务：追踪飞机及其飞行记录仪“黑匣子”。
Long before Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 vanished on March 8, the global airline industry had sophisticated tools in hand to follow planes in real time and stream data from their flight recorders. But for a variety of reasons, mostly involving cost and how infrequently planes crash, neither the airlines nor their regulators adopted them.
马来西亚航空(Malaysia Airlines)370航班于3月8日失踪前，全球航空业早已掌握了从飞行记录议中传输实时数据流的高精尖手段。可是，出于种种原因——主要涉及成本及飞机失事的低频率——无论是航空公司，还是监管机构，均未采纳这些技术。
One of the haunting questions about Flight 370 — how authorities could lose track of a Boeing 777 jetliner in age when an iPhone can be located in moments — persisted on Thursday as Australian officials said satellite cameras had spotted objects floating in the southern Indian Ocean that might be parts of the missing airliner.
紧紧围绕370航班的众多问题中，有一个挥之不去：在如今这个iPhone能被马上定位的年代，当局怎么会追踪不到一架波音(Boeing)777客机？周四，澳大利亚官方宣布，卫星影像捕捉到了南印度洋上的漂浮物，或许属于这架失踪客机。
Authorities counseled caution about the sighting, however, and the first Royal Australian Air Force plane to fly over the estimated location of the objects returned to base without spotting anything that fit the description — a reminder of how baffling the hunt for the missing jetliner has been.
不过，当局建议，对卫星影像谨慎诠释。飞临这些物件预估方位的首架澳大利亚皇家空军(Royal Australian Air Force)飞机无功而返，没有找到任何符合描述的东西。这提醒人们，搜寻这架失踪客机的难度有多高。
The idea of tracking airplanes in flight or using deployable black boxes that can broadcast their location via satellites has been around for many years and gained attention after an Air France jet crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009; it took investigators two years to locate the black boxes, two miles under water. But the disappearance of the Malaysian plane and improvements in satellite technology could provide a new impetus to track planes more closely, experts said.
追踪空中的飞机或者采用可通过卫星报告位置的高效黑匣子的想法已经提出了多年，在法国航空(Air France)的一架客机2009年坠毁于大西洋后获得了关注；调查人员花了两年时间才找到水下两英里深处的黑匣子。不过，专家们表示，马航客机失踪一事，加上卫星技术的进步，或许会为更紧密地追踪飞机提供新的推动力。
“The technology is out there, but it’s just a question of political will to recognize this is important,” said Mark Rosenker, a former chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board and a retired Air Force major general. “What hasn’t improved is that we still have to wait to recover those boxes to begin accident investigations. Precious days are wasted.”
美国国家交通安全委员会(National Transportation Safety Board)的前主席、退役空军少将马克·罗森克(Mark Rosenker)说，“技术已经有了，问题就在，有没有承认这件事情很重要的政治意愿。我们还是得等到找回黑匣子之后才能开启事故调查，这一点一直没有得到改善。宝贵的时间正在被浪费。”
Military airplanes and helicopters used in offshore exploration have flight-data recorders that can eject with a parachute in a crash. They emit a satellite signal that immediately transmits the aircraft’s identity and location. But adding an ejection system on a commercial jet would require expensive redesign.
用于海上行动的军用飞机载有可在坠毁时与降落伞一齐弹射的飞行数据记录仪。它们会发出卫星信号，即刻传输飞机的身份与位置信息。不过，在商用飞机上加载弹射系统需要重新设计飞机，耗资巨大。
As the hunt for the Malaysian jet turns to the Indian Ocean, investigators will seek to recover the plane’s flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder. Generally referred to as the black box, these systems are in fact painted bright orange so they can be spotted easily. They record hundreds of flight parameters for 25 hours, as well as up to two hours of pilot communications and cockpit sounds.
随着搜索马航客机的行动转向印度洋，调查人员将努力找回机上的飞行数据记录器和驾驶舱语音记录器。这两套系统一般被称为黑匣子，实际上刷着亮橙色的涂料，以便被找到。它们能记录25小时内的数百项飞行参数，以及至多两小时的飞行员通话与舱内声响。
They are built to survive crashes, withstand fires with temperatures in excess of 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit for more than an hour, and survive in water depths of 20,000 feet for 30 days. They are equipped with beacons that transmit ultrasonic pulses every second the moment they come in contact with water.
按照设计，黑匣子能在坠机中存留下来，耐受逾一个小时的2000华氏度（约合1100摄氏度）以上的高温，并在两万英尺以下的深海存留30天。它们自带信标，遇水后即刻开始发射每秒一次的超声脉冲。
But while the technology has proven invaluable in countless accidents, the flight recorders must first be recovered to be of any use.
不过，尽管这项技术在无数次的事故中被证明极有价值，但飞行记录仪要想起任何作用，就必须首先被找到。
“It is shocking to find ourselves in the same situation of not being able to locate an airplane,” said Robert Soulas, who lost his daughter and son-in-law in the Air France crash.
在法航事故中失去了女儿和女婿的罗伯特·苏拉(Robert Soulas)说，“我们的处境并无不同，还是没法定位一架飞机，这真是令人震惊。”
The pace of change has been slow. In February 2012, the Federal Aviation Administration said that underwater beacons manufactured after 2015 would be required to have a battery that lasted 90 days once it started beeping, instead of 30 days. The International Civil Aviation Organization, which sets global airline rules, has also mandated that wide-body airplanes should be outfitted with low-frequency beacons by 2018 to give their underwater signal greater range.
变化的步伐一直相当缓慢。2012年2月，美国联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)宣布，2015年以后生产的水下信标必须带有可维持90天脉冲发射的电池，而不是之前规定的30天。制订航空企业全球规则的国际民用航空组织(The International Civil Aviation Organization)也已强制要求，宽体客机必须在2018年前配备能扩大水下信号范围的低频信标。
But regulators have not pressed for any requirements to upgrade flight recorders with versions that transmit real-time data via satellite.
然而，在要求将飞行记录仪升级到可通过卫星传输实时数据方面，监管机构还没有任何举措。
The F.A.A. has argued that given the tens of thousands of flights in the air at any given time, live streaming of all the black-box information would pose too many technical challenges and hog limited satellite bandwidth. The costs to airlines of transmitting large volumes of data would also be prohibitively expensive and difficult to justify.
联邦航空管理局说，由于天空中每时每刻都有上万架飞机，不间断地实时传输所有黑匣子信息会带来太多技术上的挑战，也会占用有限的卫星带宽。把大量数据传回航空公司的成本也高得离谱，并不合理。
“Remember that this is an episodic event, so there is not a large current and present danger of it happening all over the world,” said Michael Boyd, an industry consultant. “Besides, it would be billions of dollars and a huge amount of infrastructure to collect the data.”
行业顾问迈克尔·博伊德(Michael Boyd)说，“别忘了这是一次偶然事件，所以这种情况不会在全世界发生，没有迫在眉睫的风险。除此之外，收集这些数据需要数十亿美元的成本和大量基础设施。”
Krishna Kavi, a professor of computer science at the University of North Texas, who outlined the contours of a similar, live-streaming system more than a decade ago, said that costs could be contained by just transmitting limited amounts of information in regular operations.
北德克萨斯大学计算机科学教授克里希纳·卡维(Krishna Kavi)10多年前描绘出了一个类似的实时数据流传输系统的轮廓。他说，只要在常规操作中传输有限数量的信息，就可以控制成本。
Richard Hayden, the director at FLYHT Aerospace Solutions, which provides such streaming services from airplane black boxes, said airlines would need to stream more data only in an unusual situation, for instance, if an engine overheats or a plane deviates from its flight path. In that case, the cost of transmission might vary between $5 to $10 a minute when needed, he said.
FLYHT Aerospace Solutions公司提供类似的通过黑匣子传输信息流的服务。该公司董事理查德·海登(Richard Hayden)说，只有在非正常状况下，比如引擎过热或飞机偏离航线时，飞机才需要不间断地传输更多数据。他说，在这种情况下，在必要时传输数据的成本可能在每分钟5美元到10美元之间不等。
Modern airplanes like the Boeing 777 are full of sophisticated devices to communicate with air traffic controllers and broadcast their position, including two transponders, several VHF radios, a satellite phone and text and data-link systems. One of them, the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System, or ACARS, handles textlike transmissions over radio or satellite links.
波音777等现代飞机上有大量精密设备，用于与空管人员沟通和报告所在位置，包括两个应答器，若干甚高频电台，一部卫星电话，以及文本和数据链系统。其中之一是飞机通信寻址报告系统(Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System)，该系统通过无线电或卫星线路传输文本类数据。
But those systems can be vulnerable to tampering by outsiders or can just be turned off by pilots, or anyone else knowledgeable with airplane operations. Industry officials say pilots need to be able to turn off any transmission system in case it starts a fire.
但这些系统很容易遭到外部人员破坏，或者干脆被飞行员或任何了解飞机操作知识的人关闭。行业官员们说，飞行员需要能够关掉任何传输系统，以应对系统起火的状况。
Similar concerns emerged after the 9/11 attacks, when terrorists turned off transponders that broadcast a plane’s identification number and other information, hiding the planes’ identities from civilian controllers. Once an airplane is outside radar range, usually 200 miles from the coast, American airlines insist on getting communications from pilots at least once an hour to track their aircraft. Without these updates, a plane might fly hundreds of miles beyond its last point of communications before anyone was even aware it was missing.
在“9·11”袭击发生后，也出现了类似的担忧。当时，恐怖分子关闭了发送飞机识别码和其他信息的应答器，使民航空管人员无法获得这两架飞机的身份信息。一旦飞机飞出雷达覆盖区——雷达通常能覆盖距海岸200英里以内的区域，美国的航空公司坚持要求至少每小时与飞行员进行一次通讯，从而追踪飞机的位置。如果不这样更新信息，可能在人们意识到一架飞机消失以前，该飞机就已经飞到距最后一次通讯地点好几百英里远的位置了。
These shortcomings could come to an end thanks to a long-planned transition from radar to satellite-based systems that are expected to greatly increase tracking accuracy by the end of the decade.
这些缺陷可能因为一个筹划已久的转变而终结，那就是从雷达转而使用卫星系统。预计在2020年之前，这些卫星系统将极大地提高飞机追踪的精确度。