Ever since the Titanic sank on its maiden voyage, carrying its captain and many of the passengers with it, the notion that the captain goes down with his ship has been ingrained in popular culture.
自从泰坦尼克号在首航时载着船长及众多乘客沉没之后，大众文化就普遍认为，在船舶沉没时，船长应该与船共存亡。
But now, for the second time in just over two years, a sea captain — first in Italy and now in South Korea — has been among the first to flee a sinking vessel, placing his own life ahead of those of his terrified passengers.
但如今，仅两年多的时间里，已有两次船长率先逃出即将沉入水中的轮船，把自己的性命置于恐慌乘客的性命之上。第一次是在意大利，这一次在韩国。
A much-publicized photo from the latest accident shows the Korean captain being helped off his own ship, the Sewol, stepping off the deck to safety even as scores of his ferry passengers remained below where survivors believe they became trapped by rushing water and debris.
有关这次事故的一张照片被大量转载，照片上，这名韩国船长正在他人的帮助下逃离自己的船——“岁月号”(Sewol)。他走下甲板，逃到了安全的位置，与此同时，许多乘客仍然在甲板下面，生还者认为，他们在那里被汹涌的海水和杂物碎片困住。
The behavior has earned the captain, Lee Jun-seok, 69, the nickname the “evil of the Sewol” among bloggers in South Korea. It also landed him in jail.
由于上述行为，现年69岁的韩国船长李俊石（Lee Jun-seok，音译）被国内的博客作者叫做“岁月号的魔鬼”。他也因此入狱。
Maritime experts called the abandonment shocking — violating a proud international (and South Korean) tradition of stewardship based at least as much on accepted codes of behavior as by law.
海事专家称，李俊石弃船的行为令人震惊——这违反了针对船员的一个光荣的国际（和韩国）传统，该传统不仅具有法律依据，同样基于公认的行为准则。
“That guy’s an embarrassment to anybody who’s ever had command at sea,” said John B. Padgett III, a retired United States Navy rear admiral and former submarine captain.
退役的美国海军少将、前潜艇艇长约翰·B·帕吉特三世(John B. Padgett III)说，“此人让所有曾经在海上统领过舰船的人蒙羞。”
His sentiments were echoed by Capt. William H. Doherty, who has commanded Navy and merchant ships and managed safety operations at a major cruise line. He called Mr. Lee’s decision to leave his 447 passengers “a disgrace,” and likened it to the desertion of the stricken Costa Concordia cruise ship off the Italian coast in 2012. “You can’t take responsibility, or say you do, for nearly 500 souls, and then be the first in the lifeboat,” he said.
海军上校威廉·H·多尔蒂(William H. Doherty)也有着相同的感受。多尔蒂曾经指挥过海军舰只和商船，并曾在一家大型游轮公司负责安全事务。他说，李俊石置447名乘客于不顾的决定是“耻辱”，认为这件事和2012年意大利海域歌诗达“协和号”(Costa Concordia)的事故类似。他说，“既然你为将近500条生命负责，或者表示自己会这样做，那么你就不能第一个上救生船。”
Civil courts in the United States have long viewed captains as having an obligation to protect their passengers and ships, but the cases in South Korea and Italy seem likely to test the notion of criminal liability in disasters.
长期以来，美国的民事法院一直认为，船长有义务保护乘客和船舶，但韩国和意大利的例子似乎将测试，船长在事故中是否负有刑事责任。
The captain of the Italian ship, Francesco Schettino, is on trial on manslaughter charges after the sinking of his ship left more than 30 people dead.
在沉船事故导致30多人遇难之后，意大利船长弗朗切斯科 ·斯凯蒂诺(Francesco Schettino)目前正因过失杀人等罪名受审。
The death toll in the South Korean accident stood at 58 as of Sunday, with 244 missing.
截至周日，韩国沉船事故的死亡人数暂为58人，244人失踪。
Most countries do not explicitly state that a captain must be the last person to leave a distressed ship, experts say, giving captains the leeway to board lifeboats or nearby ships if they can better command an evacuation from there. South Korea’s law, however, appears to be explicit, allowing the authorities to arrest Mr. Lee for abandoning the boat and its passengers in a time of crisis. An international maritime treaty known as the Safety of Life at Sea — first adopted in 1914 after the Titanic disaster — makes a ship’s captain responsible for the safety of his vessel and everyone on board. A later version of the treaty said that passengers should be able to evacuate within 30 minutes of a general alarm.
专家称，大多数国家没有明确规定船长必须最后一个离船。如果船长在其他船上可以更好地指挥船上人员疏散，它们允许船长到救生船或附近的船只上。然而，韩国的法律似乎有明文规定，因此，有关部门可以因为李俊石在危机时放弃客船和乘客而逮捕他。国际海事公约《海上人命安全公约》(Safety of Life at Sea)——泰坦尼号事故之后，1914年首次出台——规定，船长对他的船以及船上所有人的安全负有责任。该公约晚些一个版本要求，在全船警报响起之后，乘客应该能够在30分钟内撤离。
The Sewol took two and a half hours to sink, but many survivors have reported that the crew told passengers it was safer to stay put inside the ship, likely dooming them. (The captain says he later issued instructions for passengers to evacuate the ship, but it remains unclear if that was conveyed to passengers.)
“岁月号”的沉没过程持续了两个半小时，但许多生还者说，船员告诉乘客，在船内原地不动会更安全，而这可能让他们丧失了逃生的机会。（船长说，他后来发布命令，要求乘客从轮船上疏散，但目前仍不清楚该信息是否被传达给了乘客。）
The United States Navy’s rules are more explicit than ones for commercial ships. Dave Werner, Naval History and Heritage Command spokesman, said that Navy rules dating to 1814 require a captain to remain with a stricken ship as long as possible and salvage as much of it as he can.
美国海军的规定比针对商船的规定更加清晰。海军历史遗产部(Naval History and Heritage Command)发言人戴夫·维尔纳 (Dave Werner)说，早在1814年，海军规定就要求船长尽可能地留在出事的舰船上，尽全力最大限度地保住船只。
Mr. Werner cited current regulations that state, “If it becomes necessary to abandon the ship, the commanding officer should be the last person to leave.”
维尔纳援引目前的规定说，“如果必需弃船，指挥官应该是最后一个离船的人。”
The list of military and commercial ship captains who refused to abandon ship is a long one.
拒绝弃船的军舰舰长和商船船长不胜枚举。
The Titanic’s captain, E. J. Smith, was probably steaming too fast when the giant ship hit an iceberg, but he later won praise for helping to save more than 700 lives. He insisted that women and children be evacuated first, and he stayed near the bridge as the ship went down.
当泰坦尼克号这艘巨轮撞上冰山时，船长E·J·史密斯(E. J. Smith)也许开得过快，但他后来帮助挽救超过700人的举动赢得了赞誉。他坚持让妇孺率先疏散，自己却待在驾驶舱附近，和轮船一同沉没。
After the Andrea Doria collided with another vessel off Nantucket in 1956, the captain, Piero Calamai, pledged to remain on his own on the listing ship after the passengers were evacuated to try to save it. He agreed to abandon the vessel only when other officers refused to leave without him.
1956年，安德烈亚·多利亚号(Andrea Doria)和另一艘船在楠塔基特附近海域相撞之后，乘客被疏散，此后，船长彼罗·卡拉马伊(Piero Calamai)坚持独自留在侧倾的船上，希望拯救船只。由于其他的船员表示，除非卡拉马伊和他们一起走，将拒绝离开，他这才同意弃船。
When the Navy’s first Cold War spy submarine, the Cochino, caught fire and was about to sink in the Barents Sea not far from Russia in 1949, the captain, Cmdr. Rafael C. Benitez, refused to abandon the surfaced submarine even after all his men had run across a wooden plank connecting them to another vessel heaving in the rough seas.
1949年，美国海军的第一艘冷战间谍潜艇Cochino号起火，眼看就要在俄罗斯附近的巴伦支海沉没，船长拉斐尔·C·贝尼特斯(Rafael C. Benitez)却拒绝放弃这艘已经浮上水面的潜艇，虽然当时其他所有人都通过一块连接木板，跑到了行驶于这片凶险海域的另一艘船上。
Commander Benitez, who was hoping to save the Cochino, crossed the plank to safety only when the men on the other vessel yelled that his sub was sinking fast. This sense of a captain’s duty was also part of the narrative in the crash of US Airways Flight 1549, which was forced to ditch in the Hudson River after losing power in both engines after it struck birds. After landing the plane on the water, Capt. Chesley B. Sullenberger III twice checked the sinking cabin to make sure no one was left before leaving himself.
贝尼斯特希望救下Cochino号。直到另一艘船上的人们大喊他的潜艇正迅速沉没，他才走上木板，获得了安全。机长的责任感也是全美航空1549号班机(US Airways Flight 1549)失事事件的主题之一，当时，由于撞到鸟群之后两个引擎都失去了动力，这架飞机在哈德逊河上迫降。把飞机降落在水面上之后，机长切尔西·B·萨伦伯格三世(Chesley B. Sullenberger III)在离开飞机前，两次检查正在沉入水中的机舱，确保没有人被遗忘在里面。
The Sewol had its own heroes and heroines.
“岁月号”上也有英雄，他们中既有男性，也有女性。
One, Park Ho-jin, 16, found a 6-year-old girl standing alone and wet on the side of the ship as it was sliding slowly into the water. She had been left there by her older brother who went back into the ship to hunt for their mother. Mr. Park swept the child into his arms and delivered her to rescuers who had pulled a boat alongside the ship. Mr. Park made it onto a later rescue boat.
其中一个是16岁的朴豪镇（Park Ho-jin，音译），当船徐徐沉入水中的时候，他发现一名六岁女孩独自站在船侧，身上已经被海水打湿。这个小女孩是被哥哥留在那里的，而她的哥哥回到船里寻找母亲去了。朴豪镇把这个小女孩抱在怀里，交给了在轮船旁边救生船里的人员。朴豪镇在晚些时候也登上了一艘救生船。
Another high school student who survived reported that a crew member named Park Ji-young, 22, had helped teenagers to get life jackets and escape by urging them to jump into the frigid waters of the Yellow Sea where rescue boats were waiting. She stayed behind without a life jacket for herself despite the youngsters’ entreaties to jump with them. “After saving you, I will get out,” she said. “The crew goes out last.”
另一名生还的高中生说，22岁的船员朴智英（Park Ji-young，音译）帮助一些青少年穿上了救生衣，要求她们跳进黄海冰冷的海水逃命，当时，救生船正在海上等待。尽管这些学生要求她和他们一起跳进水里，朴智英却留了下来，没有给自己留下一件救生衣。“救完你们之后，我再下船，”她说，“船员最后走。”
She was later found dead, floating in the sea.
她未能生还。人们在海上发现了她的遗体。