MUMBAI, India — As this year’s monsoon season receded, onions were selling for an eye-popping 58 cents a pound, and inflation had accelerated to a six-month high. It has been a period of belt-tightening in India’s financial capital, a slow but sure blunting of hopes.
印度孟买——随着今年季风季节的退去，洋葱的价格涨到了每磅58美分（约合人民币每公斤7.8元），令人瞠目结舌，而通胀水平也提高到了6个月来的新高。在印度的金融业首都，这是一段要勒紧腰带的时间，它也正在缓慢而确凿地消磨人们的希望。
But you would hardly have known that if you were standing under a 25-foot, gemstone-encrusted statue of the elephant-headed god Ganesh, who is believed to have the power to remove obstacles.
但是如果站在25英尺（约合7.6米）高的象头神“群主”(Ganesh)塑像下，恐怕感受不到通胀的压力。这尊塑像上镶满了宝石，人们认为象头神有排除万难的能力。
The idol, necklaces cascading from its neck, was unloaded at the edge of the Arabian Sea on Wednesday to be submerged in the water alongside its brethren: the Ganesh laden with 145 pounds of gold ornaments; the Ganesh that was fitted with a new satin loincloth each day of the 10-day festival marking his birthday; the Ganesh lounging under strobe lights and crystal chandeliers, one plump foot resting on a gold-dusted globe.
周三在阿拉伯海岸边，人们将这尊脖子上围着一圈圈项链的神像卸下，浸入海中。与它一同沉入海中的还有其他的塑像：有满载145磅（约合66公斤）黄金饰物的象头神塑像；有在庆祝象头神生日的10天节庆期间，每天在腰间裹一层绸缎的象头神塑像；还有一尊安然卧在频闪灯和水晶吊灯之下、丰满的脚下踩着一个涂满金粉的球的象头神塑像。
This year’s crop of Ganeshes — about 13,000 of them, according to the evening news — stood out for its gaudiness.
今年的象头神塑像，据晚间新闻报道约有1.3万尊，其俗艳花哨更胜于往年。
Narendra Dahibawkar, who heads an umbrella organization overseeing the city’s idol-producing groups, said spending on this year’s Ganeshes was up 10 percent over 2012. The number of visitors during the festival had reportedly risen between 10 percent and 30 percent across the city, with five- and six-hour waits to make a wish. Mr. Dahibawkar said he thought the underlying reason was worry.
纳伦德拉·达希博卡(Narendra Dahibawkar)领导的一个综合机构主管着这座城市里制作神像的团体。他说，今年制作象头神塑像的花销，比2012年提高了10%。据报道，节庆期间全市的游客数量提高了10%到30%，要想许愿，需要等上五六个小时。达希博卡说，他认为深层次的原因是忧虑。
“People are coming because they are insecure — about rising prices, about the way ladies are treated,” Mr. Dahibawkar said. “The government is not just to them. Only God.”
“人们来是因为感到不安全，他们担心物价高涨，担心女性的遭遇，”达希博卡说，“政府对他们不公平，只能求诸神灵。”
At midafternoon, the idols began trundling past the graceful, derelict facades of Marine Drive, past the King of Kings Printers, to the edge of the sea. Prancing beside them were men and women dusted with vermilion powder, so they looked like red ghosts.
下午三四点时，这些神像开始缓缓走过孟买海滨大道上优雅但破旧的前壁，走过万王之王打印机公司(King of Kings Printers)，来到了海边。男男女女在神像旁雀跃，他们身上撒满朱红色的粉末，好显得像红色的鬼魂。
Nikita Trevedi, 27, a pharmacist, watched dreamily as boys poled a raft heavy with idols out to the open sea and slid them below the surface of the water. It was a grander display than she had seen growing up in the 1980s.
今年27岁的尼基塔·特雷韦迪(Nikita Trevedi)是一名药剂师，她沉醉地看着男孩们撑着装载神像的筏子漂到海上，并将神像缓缓沉到水面以下。这比她在80年代幼年时见到的场景更为壮观。
“Belief is growing,” she said happily. “It’s like going back in time.”
“信仰正在增强，”她喜悦地说，“就像时光倒流了。”
The annual immersion of Ganesh became popular in the early 20th century as part of the Indian independence movement. It provided a way to bridge the gap between castes, and it served as a pretext for gathering without the interference of British forces.
一年一度的象头神入水仪式是在20世纪初期作为印度独立运动的一部分流行起来的。这个仪式起到了一个跨越种姓鸿沟的桥梁作用，也是在不受英国军警干预下进行集会的借口。
But in recent years, with corporate sponsors offering huge donations, Mumbai’s mandals — neighborhood organizations that sponsor and build idols — began a competition in grandiosity. City authorities had to set a 25-foot height limit, lest the idols slam into bridges and overpasses on their way to the ocean.
不过近些年来，由于企业赞助商赠予了巨额捐款，孟买当地资助并参与建造神像的各邻里组织开始争相比拼奢华。孟买市当局规定了25英尺高的上限，以免神像在向大海行进的途中，撞到桥梁或过街天桥。
Equally lavish are the offerings left for idols by wealthy devotees, typically out of gratitude that a wish has been fulfilled — a gold cradle, a gold soccer ball, a gold house. One year, a diamond-encrusted cellphone. In most cases, offerings to idols go to the mandal to be used for construction of the next year’s idol, though a portion is used to finance social programs.
富有信众给神像进献的物品也同样奢侈，进献物品通常是为了还愿，如金质的摇篮、金质的足球、金质的房屋。有一年，还有人献上了镶着钻石的手机。多数情况下，献给神像的物品会流向邻里组织，用于建造第二年的神像，不过也会有一部分用于为社会福利项目提供资助。
Social scientists have criticized lavish spending on temple rituals, arguing that a relatively small percentage of donations reach the truly needy.
一些社会学者对于花费巨资举行宗教仪式表达了批评，他们认为捐款中只有相当少一部分用到了真正需要的人身上。
Prakash Kumar, a pharmacy branch manager, said he had traveled almost 400 miles with his wife and baby to see an idol called Lalbaugcha Raja. With the arrival of Western culture in India, Mr. Kumar said, “physical things are more with us.” Events like Wednesday’s immersion, he said, offered him some freedom from the relentless pressure to earn.
普拉卡什·库马尔(Prakash Kumar)是一家药店的分店经理，他说为了见到被称为“拉尔宝格之王”(Lalbaugcha Raja)的神像，他携妻子和幼子旅行了400英里。库马尔说，在西方文化传入印度之际，“实体的东西更贴近我们”。他说，像周三这样的入水仪式，让他能暂时摆脱赚钱的沉重压力。
“Everyone is looking for peace now,” he said.
他说，“现在所有人都在寻求安宁。”
Atam Mukhaya, 53, who works at a metal factory, said he would wish to be free from financial anxiety. “The government doesn’t care about the common man,” he said. “Onions cost 80 rupees a kilogram. How can I afford a good meal? Even God can’t do anything about it.”
阿坦·姆哈亚(Atam Mukhaya)今年53岁，在一家金属工厂工作。他表示他希望摆脱财务上的焦虑。“政府不在乎老百姓，”他说，“洋葱一公斤要80卢比，我怎么能吃得起好饭呢？神灵都没办法。”
A Popsicle in his hand was dripping in the heat, and he glared at it. “All he can do is give me ice cream,” he said.
他手上的雪糕正在炎热的天气下融化。他盯着雪糕说，“神灵能做到的，只是让我吃口冰激凌而已。”