He was a muscular guy with “kind of a nerdy kind of charm,” Marianna Taschinger recalled, a combination that proved irresistible to an 18-year-old girl in a small Texas town.
他是个肌肉发达的小伙子，“有种呆头呆脑的魅力，”玛丽安娜·塔辛格(Marianna Taschinger)回忆道，这两项特质相加，对一个德克萨斯小镇上的18岁少女来说是很难拒绝的。
They dated, broke up, dated again. He asked her to pick out a wedding ring. He also made another request — that she take nude pictures of herself and send them to him.
他们约会、分手、再约会。他要她去选一个结婚戒指。他还提出了另一个请求——拍几张自己的裸照发给他。
“He said if I didn’t want to send them to him, that meant that I didn’t trust him, which meant that I didn’t love him,” Ms. Taschinger said.
“他说如果我不发照片给他，就表示我不信任他，也就表示我不爱他，”塔辛格说。
The photos would never be shared with anyone else, she remembers him promising. And she believed him — until last December, more than a year after the couple broke up, when a dozen nude images of her popped up on a Web site focusing on what has become known as revenge porn. She is suing the site and her ex-boyfriend.
她记得他承诺过，永远不会把照片拿给别人看。她相信了他——直到去年12月，两人分手一年多后，她的十几张裸照出现在一个网站上，这种网站近年来被人称为复仇色情网站。目前，她正在起诉该网站以及她的前男友。
Revenge porn sites feature explicit photos posted by ex-boyfriends, ex-husbands and ex-lovers, often accompanied by disparaging descriptions and identifying details, like where the women live and work, as well as links to their Facebook pages. The sites, which are proliferating, are largely immune to criminal pursuit. But that may be changing. California lawmakers this month passed the first law aimed at revenge porn sites.
复仇色情网站上有前男友、前夫、前情人贴出的露骨照片，往往还配以贬损性文字描述及身份细节，比如这个女人住在哪里，在哪里工作，还有她们的Facebook页面。这类网站方兴未艾，却基本上未遭刑事诉讼。但情况可能会有所改变。加利福尼亚州立法者本月通过了第一部针对复仇色情网站的法律。
With cellphone cameras ubiquitous and many Americans giving in to the urge to document even the most intimate aspects of their lives, revenge porn has opened up new ways to wreak vengeance.
在手机摄像头无所不在的今天，许多渴望将生活——哪怕是最亲密的瞬间——纪录下来的美国人放松了警惕，复仇色情网站也随之成为了一个释放仇恨的新手段。
The effects can be devastating. Victims say they have lost jobs, been approached in stores by strangers who recognized their photographs, and watched close friendships and family relationships dissolve. Some have changed their names or altered their appearance.
它造成的效果可以是灾难性的。受害人说她们有的丢了工作，有的在商店被看过照片后认出她们的人搭讪，有的跟好朋友和亲人闹得不欢而散。其中一些人改名换姓，或者改变了容貌。
“Sometimes I want to get into a fetal position and cry,” said Ms. Taschinger, 23, who added that she gave up her job at a restaurant and was stalked by a man who sat outside her house in a car.
“有时候我就想缩成个胎儿似的哭一场，”23岁的塔辛格说，她说她放弃了在一家餐馆的工作，另外在她家门外曾有个男人坐在车里骚扰她。
But when victims call the police, they are invariably told there is little to be done. Lawsuits sometimes exact payments from men who post photographs or succeed in shutting down a site. But once the images are online they spread, picked up by dozens or even hundreds of other Web sites.
但是如果受害人报警，得到的回应永远是警方无能为力。有时候通过诉讼可以让上传照片的人赔一笔钱，或者关闭一个网站。但图片一旦上网就会扩散开来，在另外几十甚至几百个网站上出现。
When Holly Jacobs, a woman in Florida, changed her name to dissociate herself from the photos posted by her ex-boyfriend, she found them linked to her new name. And the owners and operators of the Web sites are in most cases protected by federal law, which largely absolves them of responsibility for material posted by third parties.
佛罗里达州一位名叫霍莉·雅克布斯(Holly Jacobs)的女子为了跟前男友贴出的照片撇清关系，选择了改名，但她发现图片又跟她的新名字联系上了。网站的运营者和所有人在多数案件中是受联邦法律保护的，相关条文确保他们基本上不需要为第三方上传的内容负责。
“It’s just an easy way to make people unemployable, undatable and potentially at physical risk,” said Danielle Citron, a law professor at the University of Maryland, who is writing a book on online harassment.
“要想让一个人变得没人敢雇、没人敢追，还可能面临现实中的威胁，这是一个很简便的办法，”马里兰大学法学教授丹尼尔·西特鲁恩(Danielle Citron)说，他正在撰写一部关于网络骚扰的著作。
As the sites have increased, legal scholars and women’s advocates have begun to push for criminal penalties for people who post on them. Only New Jersey has a law that would allow for criminal prosecution, although it was not written with revenge porn in mind.
随着这类网站的增多，法律学者和女性倡导人士开始呼吁对上传者给予刑事处罚。在这方面，新泽西是唯一有机会发起刑事指控的州，不过相关法律在立法时没有考虑到复仇色情的情况。
But proposals have met opposition from critics who worry that such laws would infringe on the First Amendment. A bill addressing the issue failed in the Florida Legislature this year.
然而这方面的提案遭到了一些评论人士的反对，他们担心此类立法是违背宪法第一修正案的。今年针对该问题的一项立法就未能在佛罗里达州议会获得通过。
And even California’s law, which on Monday was awaiting Gov. Jerry Brown’s signature, would make only some forms of revenge posting a misdemeanor punishable by jail time or a hefty fine — applying only to photos taken by others and posted with an intent to cause serious distress.
本周一，加利福尼亚州的相关立法来到了等待州长杰里·布朗(Jerry Brown)签署生效的阶段。但它仅会将部分形式的报复性上传列为适用于入狱或高额罚款的轻罪，也就是仅限于非本人拍摄的照片，并且上传带有制造严重伤害的意图。
“It has been watered down again and again as it has weaved its way through Sacramento,” said Charlotte Laws, who began pushing for legislation after pictures of her daughter, Kayla, 26, were posted on a site.
“在萨克拉门托一路走来的过程中，这项立法一次又一次地被弱化了，”夏洛特·劳斯(Charlotte Laws)说。她是在自己的26岁女儿凯拉(Kayla)的照片被传上网后开始推动这项立法的。
“What we really need is federal legislation,” Ms. Laws said.
“我们真正需要的是联邦立法，”劳斯说。
Women who have been victimized by disgruntled exes have filed civil suits based on claims of copyright infringement, invasion of privacy or, in some cases, child pornography.
有一些被心怀不满的前任伤害的女性提起了民事诉讼，理由是侵犯版权或隐私。在某些案件中，理由则是儿童色情问题。
Ms. Taschinger is one of 25 plaintiffs, five of them under age, who are suing Texxxan.com, along with its operators GoDaddy, the company that hosted the now-defunct site, for invasion of privacy.
塔辛格与包括五名未成年人在内的其他24人一起，以侵犯隐私为名，共同对Texxxan.com及其运营商GoDaddy发起了诉讼。该网站目前已下线，之前由GoDaddy托管。
Ms. Taschinger’s ex-boyfriend, Eastwood Almazan, is also named, along with seven other men who the suit claims uploaded photos of plaintiffs. In a telephone interview, Mr. Almazan, 35, denied posting the images of Ms. Taschinger or any other women. He said he was not familiar with the Texxxan.com Web site and did not own a computer at the time the photographs appeared.
塔辛格的前男友伊斯特伍德·阿尔马赞(Eastwood Almazan)与其他七名男子被列为被告。原告称，照片是由这些人上传到网上的。现年35岁的阿尔马赞在电话采访中否认曾把塔辛格或任何其他女性的照片传上网。他表示自己没听说过Texxxan.com网站，而且照片在上面出现的时候他也没有自己的电脑。
Not everyone agrees that criminalizing revenge porn is the best strategy. Marc Randazza, a Nevada lawyer who represents plaintiffs against yougotposted, says that he thinks civil remedies are preferable.
不是所有人都认为最好的应对策略是将复仇色情列为刑事罪。来自内华达州的律师马克·兰达扎(Marc Randazza)在针对YouGotPosted网站的诉讼中代理原告。他认为民事赔偿更可取。
“As horrible as I think people are who do this,” he said, “do we really need another law to put more people in jail in the United States?”
“尽管我认为做这种事的人很糟糕，但是，在这个国家，我们真的需要再加一项法律来把更多的人送进监狱吗？”他问道。
And some experts, like Eric Goldman, a law professor at Santa Clara University, have said that any state law would be vulnerable to First Amendment challenges.
一些专家，例如圣克拉拉大学(Santa Clara University)的法学教授埃里克·戈德曼(Eric Goldman)表示，这方面的任何州级立法都容易受到宪法第一修正案的制约。
But Eugene Volokh, a First Amendment scholar at the University of California, Los Angeles, said he saw no constitutional obstacle to a law written narrowly to address naked or sexual images distributed without permission.
不过，研究第一修正案的加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)学者尤金·沃洛赫(Eugene Volokh)称，如果立法是具体针对未经许可传播的裸照或色情照的话，他并不认为有宪法方面的障碍。
“I think that’s a kind of invasion of privacy that the courts would say can be prohibited,” he said.
“在我看来，这属于法院会认为可以阻止的一种对隐私的侵犯，”他说。
Ms. Taschinger said even now, her friends continued to send nude pictures of themselves to their boyfriends.
塔辛格表示，她的朋友至今还在发照片给她们的男友。
“You don’t want to really think that five years down the line, your boyfriend at the time could be your not-boyfriend and do something really bad to you,” she said.
“你不会去细想五年后，你现在的男友可能就不是男友了，然后做出些很伤害你的事来，”她说。