In just the past few months Gordon VeneKlasen, a New York art dealer, flew to Hong Kong for that city’s first global art fair; gave a party for 50 at Harry’s Bar in Venice; installed an exhibition at his gallery in London; spent three days schmoozing American collectors in San Sebastián, Spain; and then jetted off to Switzerland for one of the biggest events of the art-world calendar, Art Basel.
仅仅在过去几个月里，纽约艺术品经销商戈登·维内克拉森(Gordon VeneKlasen)就跑了许多地方，他飞往香港参加香港首次国际艺术展；他在威尼斯的哈利酒吧(Harry's Bar)办了一次50人的聚会；在自己位于伦敦的画廊布置了一场展览；在西班牙圣塞巴斯蒂安与美国收藏者闲谈了三天；接着又飞往瑞士参加艺术领域的另一项盛会巴塞尔艺术展(Art Basel)。
Mr. VeneKlasen, 51, who has been a dealer in Manhattan for 25 years, recalls a simpler time, just a decade ago, when he could sit in his gallery on East 77th Street waiting for buyers to step through the door.
51岁的维内克拉森已经在曼哈顿当了25年的艺术商。他回忆起以前更简单的时光，仅仅是10年前，他还可以坐在自己位于东77街的画廊里等着客户登门。
“It was a much gentler life,” he said. “You were in your gallery, and people came to you. The travel was for very special purposes, and it was not constant. Now, they have us marching.”
他说，“那时的生活文静多了。你呆在画廊里，别人会来找你。出差都是因为非常特别的原因，而且不经常。现在，客户令我们疲于奔命。”
Globalization has come to the art market, and dealers are being forced out of their comfortable galleries in venerable art capitals like New York and London and jumping on a worldwide carousel of art fairs from Miami to Hong Kong to Basel to São Paulo.
如今，全球化已经波及艺术市场，经销商们也不得不从他们位于纽约、伦敦等受人尊敬的艺术之都的舒适画廊里走出来，马不停蹄地奔走于迈阿密、香港、巴塞尔、圣保罗等世界城市接二连三举办的艺术展之间。
By offering what a gallery cannot — seemingly endless gawking at artwork, artists and celebrities — the fairs are as popular, glamorous and fizzy as Cristal, attracting both the new moneyed classes that fly in from Kiev, Shanghai, Doha or Abu Dhabi and the serious American collectors who now prefer to do their browsing at fairs at home and abroad.
这些艺术展通过给人以似乎无休止地盯看艺术品、艺术家和社会名流的机会，提供了画廊无法提供的东西，已和水晶香槟一样受欢迎、令人向往，而且生机勃勃，它们不仅吸引来自基辅、上海、多哈和阿布扎比等地的新贵阶层，而且也吸引严肃的美国收藏者，这些收藏者现在更喜欢在国内外的展览上浏览艺术品。
But their disruptive economics are not only shaking up dealers’ lives, they are also shaking up the art market, especially for galleries below the top tier.
然而，这种变化所带来的颠覆性的经济不仅打乱了艺术商的生活，而且也对艺术市场产生了震动，尤其是那些比顶级画廊低档的画廊。
While large galleries can — and do — pay the art fairs’ hefty fees and the cost of this globe-trotting existence, others find they are priced out or can’t compete. The ripple effects are starting to be felt in prime gallery districts like the Upper East Side and SoHo in New York.
虽然大型画廊付得起——而且支付——艺术展收取的高昂入场费及环球旅行的费用，但是其他画廊则发现它们会因为费用过高而无力参加艺术展或无法参与竞争。纽约上东区(Upper East Side)和苏荷区(SoHo)等重要画廊区已经开始感受到了这种变化的连锁反应。
“For a midsized gallery,” said Christopher D’Amelio, 47, a Manhattan dealer who closed his own gallery this year to become a partner at a larger one, “everything is a challenge.”
47岁的克里斯托弗·达梅利奥(Christopher D’Amelio)是曼哈顿的一名艺术商，他说，“对于中型画廊而言，这些都是挑战。”达梅利奥今年关闭了自己的画廊，成了一家更大画廊的合伙人。
Large galleries with deep pockets are expanding their empires with new galleries in Beijing or Hong Kong. Yet fairs around the globe are, more and more, where the art world does business.
资金雄厚的大型画廊正通过在北京或香港开设新画廊扩展他们的市场。而世界各地的艺术展则越来越多地成为了艺术界进行交易的地方。
Dealers worldwide earned about 36 percent of their sales on average through local or international art fairs in 2012, an increase of 6 percentage points from 2010, according to the European Fine Art Foundation’s Art Market Report by Arts Economics, which surveyed 6,000 dealers.
据欧洲美术基金会(European Fine Art Foundation)艺术市场报告，世界各地的经销商2012年通过当地或国际艺术展卖出的作品平均占在他们总销量的36%，比2010年增加了6个百分点，这个报告是艺术经济研究所(Arts Economics)对6000名经销商进行调查后发布的。
For some, the share is even higher: according to Mr. VeneKlasen, 75 percent of his sales 10 years ago were made in his galleries, but now nearly two-thirds of revenues are earned on the road.
对于某些艺术经销商来说，这个比例甚至更高：维内克拉森表示，10年前，75%的销售是在自己的画廊做的，但如今，将近三分之二的销售额是通过旅行完成的。
The Arts Economics report said that some dealers attended up to 10 fairs a year.
艺术经济研究所的报告称，有些经销商每年参加的展览多达10个。
“In the early ’70s there were four major art fairs; in the 1990s, 50; and suddenly now there are 180,” said Linda Blumberg, executive director of the Art Dealers Association of America, who spoke this year after returning from Art Basel. “Some of the dealers I had met in Basel, it was crazy. They had been to Hong Kong, then Venice, then Berlin and London. It is hard to think in the 12-month calendar of any month when there is not an art fair. It is pretty intense.”
美国艺术经销商协会(Art Dealers Association of America)的执行理事林达·布伦贝格(Linda Blumberg)从今年的巴塞尔艺术展回来后说，“20世纪70年代初，主要的艺术展只有四个；90年代时有50个；现在猛增到180个。我在巴塞尔碰到的一些经销商太疯狂了。他们去香港，然后去威尼斯，之后又去柏林和伦敦。很难想象一年12个月中哪个月没有艺术展。这种生活十分紧张。”
For dealers, the life takes a lot of planning, and it is expensive. Galleries must build inventory to take on the road, and ship it, produce catalogs and send installers ahead to prepare the art fair stand, which becomes their temporary but important face to the world. Mr. VeneKlasen, for example, this year hired an emerging visual artist, Aaron Curry, to design his booth in Hong Kong, shipping hundreds of silk-screen panels from Los Angeles. Some big New York galleries then send as many as 20 employees to staff the fairs; travel, hotels and parties for collectors, as well as insurance and installation for the art, can push the cost past $300,000 for one fair alone.
对于经销商来说，这种生活也需要精心计划，而且成本很高。画廊必须准备要带在路上的作品，然后还要运输这些作品，印制目录，并派人提前去布置展位，那是他们面对世界的场所，虽然是临时的、但很重要。举例来说，维内克拉森今年聘请了暂露头角的视觉艺术家亚伦·柯里(Aaron Curry)来设计其在香港的展位，他从洛杉矶运去了几百幅丝制屏风的面板。一些纽约的大型画廊能派出多达20名员工前往展览会工作；把路费、住旅馆钱、为收藏者举办聚会的花销，以及艺术品的保险费和安装费加起来，一次展览的费用可高达30万美元（约合184万元人民币）。
“We used to sit around in the gallery on a Saturday afternoon hoping someone would come in,” said Arne Glimcher, of the Pace Gallery in New York. “What we are dealing with now is destination shopping. We have to be in different places. We bring the art to the collector rather than bringing the collector to the art.”
“过去，我们周六下午会坐在画廊里，盼着有人进来，”纽约佩斯画廊(Pace Gallery)的阿尔内·格利姆彻(Arne Glimcher)说。“我们现在面对的是选择去什么地方。我们必须前往不同地方，把艺术品送到收藏者面前，而不是指望收藏者主动来找艺术品。”
Some dealers only reluctantly take part. Paula Cooper, the New York art dealer, attends some fairs but mostly she sends others from her gallery, decrying the loss of what she describes as a more thoughtful time even just five years ago when she could sit with artists and collectors and talk about art. “It is just like any business in the world now,” she said. “It is becoming a global enterprise.”
有些经销商只是在勉强参与。纽约艺术品经销商葆拉·库珀(Paula Cooper)自己会去参加一些展览，但大多数时候，她都是派画廊里的其他人去参加。她为自己称之为一个更深沉时代的逝去感到愤慨，仅仅在五年前，她还可以与艺术家和收藏者坐在一起谈论艺术。“现在，和世界上所有交易一样，艺术经销正在变为一个全球性的业务”，她说。
Mr. Glimcher, too, said he preferred others from his gallery to make the global trek.
格利姆彻说，他也更愿意派画廊里的其他人去参加展览。
“Fairs are beneath the dignity of art,” he said. “To stand there in a booth and hawk your wares — it is just not how you sell art.”
他说，“艺术展有辱艺术的尊严。站在展位上叫卖自己的商品，那不是销售艺术的方法。”
The fairs also have an impact on artists, who are producing work according to the demands of the art fair calendar rather than their own creative rhythms.
展览对艺术家也造成影响，他们开始根据艺术展的日程安排而非自己的创作节奏来创作作品。
Not everyone can play this game. While some smaller dealers get better exposure by showing alongside bigger galleries at fairs, many struggle even to get past the long waiting lists for entrance into the fairs, while those that win access must work hard to recoup the costs, including the booth fee, airfares, hotels and entertainment. Just a booth can start at $15,000, go to $40,000 or so for a midsize gallery, or even $100,000 and above for a larger space.
不是每个人都能玩这个游戏。虽然一些小艺术经销商可以用在展览会上靠近较大画廊的展位设展位的方法，来提高知名度，但很多经销商仍在想办法从等待参展的一长串名单中往前挤，那些赢得参展机会的经销商则必须更努力地工作以收回成本，其中包括展位费、机票、旅馆和娱乐支出。一个展位最低价格是1.5万美元，中型画廊的展位可能在4万美元左右，如果需要更大的空间，展位费甚至会达到10万美元以上。
Mr. D’Amelio ran his own gallery with a business partner on West 22nd Street in Chelsea since 1996, surviving the terrorist attacks on New York and the most recent recession. He said there was still a place for midsize galleries like his had been. But he closed his gallery in January and became a partner at David Zwirner, one of the prestigious larger galleries that offers the business resources — a staff of back-office assistants, public relations officials, a high-quality Web site and brand recognition — necessary to function in this newly global marketplace, namely the ability to lure the best artists and take their work to the richest buyers.
达梅利奥从1996年起就和一个生意伙伴在西切尔西街22号上经营着自己的画廊，他经历过恐怖主义对纽约的袭击以及最近的经济衰退。他说，仍有他以前那种中型画廊的生存空间。但是，他在1月份关闭了自己的画廊，成为戴维·茨维尔纳(David Zwirner)的一个合作伙伴，后者是最有名望的大型画廊之一，能够提供适合在这个新的全球市场上生存所需要的商业资源，包括后勤支持助理、公关人员、高品质的网站及被认可的品牌，这些资源使画廊具有能够吸引最好的艺术家并将他们的作品带给最富有的买主的能力。
“It is completely international,” said Mr. D’Amelio. Dealers must travel to get to know the wealthiest art buyers in the market at any time, he said. “If you don’t, then your artists will leave you for a gallery that does.”
达梅利奥说，“这完全是国际化的。”他说，经销商需要旅行，去认识那些在这个市场里在任何时候最有钱的艺术品买家。“如果你不这么做，你的艺术家就会离开你去找那些这么做的画廊。”