The works these four art stars acquire are eclectic and personal, providing plenty of source material for their own impressive creativity.
这四位著名艺术家收藏的艺术品风格各异，很有个性，为他们各自令人钦佩的创造力提供了很多素材。
Jeff Koons
杰夫·昆斯(Jeff Koons)：
When Jeff Koons speaks about the “biological” subtext of his art, he’s alluding to the sexual references embedded within. (Think of the hoses and tanks of his vacuum cleaners, the crevices and shanks of his stainless steel balloon figures.) When Koons looks at the art he collects — old and modern masters including Picasso, Dalí and Courbet — he sees much the same thing.
当杰夫·昆斯谈论自己艺术作品的“生物性”内涵时，他指的是其中隐藏的性暗示（想想他设计的吸尘器上的软管和机箱以及不锈钢气球人物的缝隙和腿）。昆斯收藏的艺术品来自古代和现代的艺术大师，包括毕加索(Picasso)、达利(Dalí)和库尔贝(Courbet)。昆斯从这些艺术品中看到的是同样的东西。
The composition of a William-Adolphe Bouguereau nude that welcomes visitors to the Upper East Side townhouse he shares with his wife, Justine, and their six children is “vaginal,” he says, while a Manet painting of a boat displays “aspects of boat gender.” (To Koons, ships are metaphors for sexuality.) The Picasso portrait in his living room combines the faces of two women. “The whole thing is phallic.” In his bedroom, where nearly every painting — by Poussin, Magritte, Fragonard and more — is a celebration of desire, another Picasso depicting the artist making love is “about conquest, both artistic and sexual.”
他和妻子贾斯汀妮(Justine)以及六个孩子居住在上东区的联排别墅中。威廉-阿道夫·布格罗(William-Adolphe Bouguereau)画的裸女在欢迎客人们的来到。他说那幅画描绘的是“阴道”，而马奈(Manet)画的小船展示的是“船的性别”（在昆斯看来，船象征着性欲）。他客厅里毕加索的肖像画是两个女人脸的组合。“整幅画象征着生殖器。”他卧室里有普珊(Poussin)、马格里特(Magritte)和弗拉戈纳尔(Fragonard)等人的作品，几乎全是在赞美性欲。毕加索的另一幅描绘自己做爱的画是“关于征服的，艺术上和性上的征服”。
If it seems as if he has a one-track mind, let it be said that the art in his possession affects his whole being. “I think art is about transcendence and consciousness, making connections to things in the world,” he says. “Your excitement comes from the senses.” But he doesn’t collect just because it turns him on. It also provides him with material for his own work. There’s another reason, too. “It’s collecting human history. That’s the way I look at it.”
他似乎只有单一思维，或者说他拥有的艺术品影响了他的全部。“我觉得艺术是关于超越和意识的，是和世界上的事物发生联系，”他说，“你的兴奋来自感觉。”但是他收藏这些艺术品不仅是因为它们激发了他的性欲。它们也给他提供了创作素材。另外还有一个原因。“我是在收藏人类历史。我是这么看的。”
KAWS
卡伍斯(KAWS)：
“I’m like a cat lady, but with drawings and paintings,” says Brian Donnelly, the 39-year-old artist known as KAWS. Earnings from the sales of the wildly popular, limited-edition toys based on “Companion,” a melancholic Mickey Mouse-like sculpture, enabled him to acquire art that might naturally appeal to a formally trained painter who came out of graffiti and skate culture. (KAWS was his graffiti tag, chosen because he liked “the interaction of the lettering.”)
“我像个猫夫人，不过我收藏的是素描和油画，”39岁的艺术家布莱恩·唐纳利(Brian Donnelly)说。他更为人知的名字是卡伍斯。他根据“伙伴”（Companion，一个米老鼠似的忧郁的雕塑）设计的限量版玩具大受欢迎。玩具的销售收入让他能够购买一些艺术品。这些艺术品吸引这位出身涂鸦和滑板文化而后接受正式培训的画家似乎是很自然的事情（卡伍斯是他涂鸦作品的署名，他选这个名字是因为喜欢这个名字“字母间的互动”）。
The collection reflects his refined, comic-book aesthetic in works by Raymond Pettibon, H. C. Westermann, R. Crumb, Ed Ruscha, the Chicago Imagists Karl Wirsum and Jim Nutt, and Peter Saul, whose cartoonish paintings make searing social commentary. “I have Sauls everywhere,” Donnelly says. “It’s crazy how much stuff today looks like his work.” He also owns 28 small canvases by the Japanese graphic artist Tadanori Yokoo (comic updates on paintings by Henri Rousseau), a charcoal by Joyce Pensato (a painter of cartoon figures) and a 1965 collage of comic-book cutouts by Ray Yoshida, a teacher of Nutt’s. “I grew up with a Keith Haring poster,” Donnelly says, but “I always wanted a drawing.” He has it now.
他的藏品反映出他精妙的漫画审美倾向。这些作品来自雷蒙德·佩蒂伯恩(Raymond Pettibon)，H·C·韦斯特曼(H. C. Westermann)，R·克拉姆(R. Crumb)，埃德·拉斯查(Ed Ruscha)，芝加哥意象派艺术家卡尔·威瑟姆(Karl Wirsum)和吉姆·纳特(Jim Nutt)，以及彼得·索尔(Peter Saul)。索尔的卡通式油画引发了热烈的社会评论。“我在哪儿都能看到索尔式的作品，”唐纳利说，“不可思议的是现在很多东西都看起来像他的作品。”他还有日本平面艺术家横尾忠则的28幅小油画（是对亨利·卢梭[Henri Rousseau]油画的漫画升级），乔伊斯·彭萨托（Joyce Pensato，一位卡通人物画家）的木炭画，以及雷·吉田（Ray Yoshida，纳特的一位老师）1965年创作的漫画书拼贴画。唐纳利说“我从小就有凯斯·哈林(Keith Haring)的一张海报”，但是“我一直想拥有他的一幅油画”。现在他拥有了。
All of these works are modestly scaled, so more of them will fit in the offices above Donnelly’s sleek, two-story painting studio in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, while other pieces are displayed in the nearby apartment he shares with his wife, the painter Julia Chiang. “It’s really different when you go to a gallery or museum and then walk into your kitchen and look at something again,” he says.
所有这些作品体积都不大，所以唐纳利位于布鲁克林威廉斯堡的两层豪华绘画室上面的办公室里会有更多这样的作品，而其他一些作品则展示在他和妻子、画家朱莉娅·蒋(Julia Chiang)附近的家中。“你在画廊或博物馆与在自家厨房看同一件作品的感觉是不同的，”他说。
Ugo Rondinone
乌戈·罗迪纳(Ugo Rondinone)：
Ugo Rondinone collects the work of other artists for the same reason he makes his own. “Art energizes me,” he says. That’s an understatement, considering his own prodigious output — paintings of soft-edged targets, neon rainbow signs, cast-aluminum olive trees, huge masks, scholar’s rocks amped up to monumental scale.
乌戈·罗迪纳收藏其他艺术家作品的原因与自己创作的原因是一样的。“艺术激发我的活力，”他说。他这是自谦，因为他自己的作品十分巨大：边缘模糊的靶心、霓虹招牌、铝铸橄榄树、巨大的面具和艺术家的岩石规模都大得惊人。
“I believe in the spirituality and the magic of an artwork,” says Rondinone, a Swiss-born New Yorker, 49, who can hardly remember a time when he didn’t own art by other people.
“我相信艺术品具有灵性和魔力，”罗迪纳说。49岁的罗迪纳是瑞士出生的纽约人，他一向爱收藏其他人的作品。
At first, they were other Swiss artists, Meret Oppenheim and Fischli and Weiss, and friends like Urs Fischer and Valentin Carron. Later, some pieces were by game changers like the British Pop artist Clive Barker or the button-pushing Sarah Lucas. The nearly 200 works in his collection today will soon have a new home in the 15,500-square-foot deconsecrated church in Harlem where he is building a studio and exhibition space. Most are by artists who are underappreciated by the market — Bruno Gironcoli (his teacher), Alan Shields, Nancy Grossman, Joe Brainard, Ann Craven and Sam Gilliam, among them. “They’re the ones I can afford,” says Rondinone, who also curates impressive group exhibitions of rare or unknown works by the artists he prizes, often dedicating the shows to the poet John Giorno, his romantic partner since 1997. But Rondinone also loves the early-20th-century Romantic landscapes of the American painter Louis Michel Eilshemius. (He owns 20.)
他最初收藏的是其他瑞士艺术家的作品，比如梅列特·奥本海姆(Meret Oppenheim)，菲施利(Fischli)和韦斯(Weiss)，以及朋友们的作品，比如乌尔斯·费舍尔(Urs Fischer)和瓦伦汀·卡伦(Valentin Carron)。后来收藏的是一些改变游戏规则的人的作品，比如英国波普艺术家克里夫·巴克(Clive Barker)或者富于刺激性的莎拉·卢卡斯(Sarah Lucas)。如今，他收藏的近200件作品将很快搬到哈林区的新家。他把那里的一座15500平方英尺的教堂改建成了一个工作室和展厅。这些作品大多来自那些未被市场充分赏识的艺术家，比如他的老师布鲁诺·吉隆考利(Bruno Gironcoli)，艾伦·希尔兹(Alan Shields)，南希·格罗斯曼(Nancy Grossman)，乔·布雷纳德(Joe Brainard)，安·克拉文(Ann Craven)和山姆·吉列姆(Sam Gilliam)。“它们是我买得起的作品，”罗迪纳说。他还策划了一些让人印象深刻的集体展览，展出的是他赏识的一些艺术家的罕见的或不出名的作品，通常他把这些展览献给他从1997年起的恋人、诗人约翰·吉奥诺(John Giorno)。但是罗迪纳也很喜欢20世纪初美国画家路易斯·迈克尔·艾尔希米厄斯(Louis Michel Eilshemius)的浪漫风景画（他有20幅这样的画）。
Chuck Close
查克·克洛斯(Chuck Close)：
Painting and photographing the human face — recently Barack Obama’s — is Chuck Close’s primary occupation, but portraiture also consumes his domestic life. The living room of his NoHo apartment doubles as a gallery for Dutch, Flemish and Italian old masters like van Dyck, Rembrandt, Titian and Tintoretto, as well as for African art.
查克·克洛斯的主要工作是肖像绘画和摄影，最近的对象是贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)，但是肖像画也占据他的家庭生活。他NoHo公寓的客厅同时也是荷兰、佛兰德和意大利早期绘画大师的展厅，比如范·戴克(van Dyck)，伦布兰特(Rembrandt)，提香(Titian)和丁托列托(Tintoretto)，另外还有一些非洲艺术作品。
A white marble bust of Hadrian, carved from life in the second century A.D., sits near a window, while a gilded Italian altarpiece, dated 1310, hangs over a Gerrit Rietveld cabinet. “When I studied Greek and Roman art,” Close says, “I didn’t know or care who the subjects were. Now I’m thinking, Hey, who’s Hadrian? Turns out he was a gay emperor. And a pacifist.”
窗边放着哈德良(Hadrian)的白色大理石半身雕像，它是在公元二世纪以他本人为模特雕刻的。1310年的一件意大利镀金祭坛饰品悬挂在格里特·里特韦尔(Gerrit Rietveld)设计的橱柜上方。“我当时学希腊和罗马艺术时，”克洛斯说，“不知道也不关心那些创作对象是谁。现在我在想，嘿，谁是哈德良？最后发现他是个同性恋皇帝。还是个和平主义者。”
Close, who is 73, has been bound to a motorized wheelchair since 1988, when a spinal artery collapse caused near-total paralysis. That didn’t dampen his enthusiasm for either making art or collecting it, and other things as well, like flea-market washboards and antique welders’ masks that he places “somewhere between the African art and Darth Vader.” Strangely, he says, “I’m not acquisitive.” Yet on either side of an interior hallway are dozens of portraits, small drawings, photographs and paintings, many by artists Close has painted. They include Willem de Kooning, Eric Fischl, Cindy Sherman, Irving Penn and Alex Katz, as well as Jacob Lawrence, Diane Arbus and Man Ray. Most were trades, though a cut-paper collage by Ray Johnson was a purchase. One section of the work is blank, removed by the artist after Close requested a 20 percent discount. “Contemporary art is the most overpriced, overvalued stuff — thank God,” he says. “But old masters are the most powerful.”
73岁的克洛斯从1988年起就被困在机动轮椅上，当时脊动脉栓塞差点让他完全瘫痪。那并没有削弱他创作或收藏艺术品的热情。他也收藏其他一些东西，比如放在“非洲艺术品和达斯·维德(Darth Vader)之间”的跳蚤市场的搓板和老式焊工面具。奇怪的是，他说，“我没有占有欲。”但是室内走廊的两边有几十幅肖像画、小幅素描、摄影作品和油画，克洛斯给这些作品的作者们大都画过肖像，包括威廉·德·库宁(Willem de Kooning)，埃里克·费舍尔(Eric Fischl)，辛迪·谢尔曼(Cindy Sherman)，欧文·佩恩(Irving Penn)和亚历克斯·卡茨(Alex Katz)，以及雅可布·劳伦斯(Jacob Lawrence)，黛安·阿布斯(Diane Arbus)和曼·雷(Man Ray)。这些作品大多是交换来的，不过雷·约翰逊(Ray Johnson)的剪贴画是买来的。那件作品有一块空白，是在克洛斯要求打八折之后被约翰逊去掉的。“当代艺术品要价过高，是价值最被高估的作品——感谢上帝，”他说，“但是早期绘画大师是最强大的。”