A new year. A new New York mayor. Old problems with art in New York. I have a collection of complaints and a few (very few) ideas for change.
新的一年，纽约有了新市长。但纽约的艺术还是老问题。我有一大堆抱怨和一点点（非常少）关于改进的意见。
Money — the grotesque amounts spent, the inequitable distribution — has dominated talk about art in the 21st century so far. It’s a basic fact of art history. Emperors, popes and robber barons set the model for the billionaire buyers of today. Of course, it is today that matters to the thousands of artists who live and work in this punitively expensive city, where the art industry is often confused with the art world.
钱是花了不少，但怎么花的却有欠公正——自21世纪以来，金钱便一直主宰着关于艺术的讨论。在整个艺术史上，基本也是这个情况。帝王、教皇和巧取豪夺的大亨们就是如今亿万富豪买家们的榜样。当然，如今金钱之所以重要，还因为成千上万的艺术家们要在生活费高昂到令人痛苦的城市生活，在这里，人们经常把艺术产业和艺术家界淆起来。
The distinction between the two, though porous, is real. The art industry is the nexus of high-price galleries, auction houses and collectors who control an art market renowned for its funny-money practices. In numbers of personnel, the industry is a mere subset of the circle of artists, teachers, students, writers, curators and middle-range dealers spread out over five boroughs. But in terms of power, the proportions are reversed, to the degree that the art world basically functions as a labor source, supplying the industry with product, services and exotic color but, with the age of apprenticeships long gone, only uncertainly sharing in its wealth.
二者虽然所差无几，但差异确实存在。艺术产业意味着高价画廊、拍卖行与掌握艺术市场的收藏家们之间的联系，而艺术市场又以充斥各种来路不明的钱而出名。从人员构成角度而言，艺术工业只是艺术家、教师、学生、写手、策展人和中档的交易商在纽约五个行政区内的交集。但从权力的角度来说，权力分配的比例是颠倒的，以至于艺术界的基本功能已经沦为劳动力源头，只为艺术产业提供产品、服务和奇异的色彩，但由于学徒制度的时代早已过去，艺术家只能从艺术产业的财富中得到不确定的份额。
Do I exaggerate? A bit. The argument can be made that labor is benefiting from its ties to management, in a high-tide-floats-all-boats way. Visit art schools or galleries, and you get the impression that a substantial portion of the art world is content to serve as support staff to a global ruling class.
我是不是太夸张了？有些吧。有人可能会争辩说，劳动力可以从经纪关系中获利，这是水涨船高的买卖。去艺术学校或画廊参观，会给你留下这样的印象：艺术界的大部分人很满足于为一个全球性的统治阶层打下手。
The reality is that, directly or indirectly, in large ways and small, the current market system is shaping every aspect of art in the city: not just how artists live, but also what kind of art is made, and how art is presented in the media and in museums.
事实是，当前的市场体系正在以直接或间接、或大或小的方式塑造纽约艺术的方方面面：不仅是艺术家的生存方式，也影响了他们所创造的艺术的种类，以及艺术品在媒体和美术馆中的呈现方式。
I got tired of money talk a while back. Rather than just sputter with indignation, I figured it would be more useful to turn in another direction, toward art that the industry wasn’t looking at, which is a whole lot of art. But reminders keep pulling you back to the bottom line. With every visit to the gallery-packed Lower East Side, I see fewer of the working-class Latinos who once called the neighborhood home. In what feels like overnight, I’ve watched Dumbo in Brooklyn go from an artist’s refuge to an economically gated community.
我已经有好一阵子，都不愿意去谈论金钱了。与其说只是发泄不满，我觉得换个角度可能会更有用，我可以谈谈艺术产业根本不重视的那些艺术，这样的艺术其实有很多。但总会有些东西提醒你回到底线。每次去画廊云集的下东区，都会发现那里的拉丁裔工人愈来愈少，他们曾把这个地方当成家。好像就在一夜之间，布鲁克林的敦波就从艺术家们的庇护所变成了有钱才能进入的社区。
Recently, my attention was drawn to a controversy surrounding a large and much praised group exhibition installed at a complex of converted warehouses called Industry City in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. The show, “Come Together: Surviving Sandy,” was conceived as a benefit for artists who had suffered losses in the 2012 hurricane and was promoted as evidence of art-world solidarity. Yet a widely read blog, Art F City, reported that the owners of the complex, which had for some years provided low-rent studios for artists, were now raising rents dramatically, forcing many artists to vacate. (Landlords say 25 percent of Industry City tenants are artists). The new residents seem to be an upscale clientele drawn by the artsy atmosphere.
最近，有一个大型群展备受赞扬，围绕它的讨论吸引了我的注意。这个展览在布鲁克林日落公园的“工业城”——一个由仓库改装的综合场地举行。展览名叫“集合：桑迪幸存者”(Come Together: Surviving Sandy)，它的初衷是为那些在2012年的桑迪飓风中遭受损失的艺术家进行义卖，宣传时也强调它证明了艺术界的团结。然而读者很多的博客Art F City却报道，这个综合场地的所有者几年来一直来为艺术家们提供租金低廉的工作室，如今却突然大幅度提高租金，令许多艺术家只能搬出（房东说，工业城25%的租客都是艺术家）。新居民们似乎是被艺术气氛吸引而来的收入较高的客户。
Whatever the full facts, money is the winner, and with that comes caution and conservatism. This is almost absurdly obvious on the high-end of the market. Sales of retrograde “masterworks” can be relied on to jack up the auction charts at regular intervals; the most recent record was set last fall by a $142.4 million Francis Bacon painting of Lucian Freud, a monument to two overpraised painters for the price of one. Meanwhile, big, hugely pricey tchotchkes — new whatevers by Jeff Koons, say — roll out of fabrication shops and into personal museums being assembled by members of the international power elite.
不管全部的事实真相如何，金钱才是赢家，因此告诫和保守主义也随之而来。这个事实在高端市场近乎荒诞地显而易见。次一级的“名家大作”也肯定能卖出去，不断刷新拍卖行的成交纪录；最近的纪录是去年秋天创下的，弗朗西斯·培根(Francis Bacon)绘制的卢西安·弗洛伊德(Lucian Freud)肖像拍出了1.424亿美元的高价，两位被高估的画家合二为一，创造了高价的丰碑。与此同时还有巨大的高价摆件——比如说杰夫·库恩斯(Jeff Koons)的任何新作——它们从制造车间滚滚而出，涌向那些由国际权力精英开办的私人博物馆。
Outside auctions, the marketing mechanics buzz on. Roughly since the end of the multicultural, postmodern 1990s, we’ve watched new art being re-Modernized and domesticated, with painting the medium of choice, abstraction the mode of preference. Together they offer significant advantages. Paintings can be assembly-line produced but still carry the aura of being hand-touched. They can be tailored to small spaces, such as fair booths. Abstraction, especially if color is involved, can establish instant eye contact from afar. If, in addition, the work’s graphic impact translates well online, where stock can be moved eBay style, so much the better.
拍卖会之外的市场机制一片混乱。大约自从多元文化、后现代主义盛行的20世纪90年代末开始，我们目睹了新艺术被重新现代化以及被驯服的过程，人们选择油画作为媒介，选择抽象派作为最偏爱的形式。最终它们取得了支配地位。绘画可以是生产流水线上的产品，但是仍然带有手工制品的氛围。它们可以适应狭小的空间，比如说集市小摊。而抽象派呢，特别是画面有色彩的时候，可以从很远的地方就吸引眼球。此外，如果作品的画面冲击力在网络上得到良好的解读，可以在类似eBay那样的网络上进行销售，那就更好了。
Other traditional forms — drawing, photography, some sculpture — similarly work well in this marketing context. But an enormous range of art does not, beginning with film, performance and installation, and extending into rich realms of creative activity that defy classification as art at all. To note this dynamic is not to dismiss painting or object making, but to point to the restrictive range of art that the market supports, that dealers are encouraged to sell, and that artists are encouraged to make.
其他传统形式——素描、摄影以及某些雕塑——也同样在这个市场环境下运行良好。但也有很大一部分艺术形式无法做到，首当其冲的就是电影、表演和装置艺术，此外也扩展到不愿被归类为艺术的各种创意活动的丰富领域。我指出这种动态，并非为了贬低油画或制造话题，而是为了指出，市场鼓励这个类别的作品，交易商被鼓励多多卖出这种商品，而艺术家被鼓励多多制造这种产品。
The narrowing of the market has been successful in attracting a wave of neophyte buyers who have made art shopping chic. It has also produced an epidemic of copycat collecting. To judge by the amounts of money piled up on a tiny handful of reputations, few of these collectors have the guts, or the eye or the interest, to venture far from blue-chip boilerplate. They let galleries, art advisers and the media do the choosing, and the media doesn’t particularly include art critics. What, after all, does thumbs up, thumbs down matter when winners are preselected before the critical votes are in? In this economy, it can appear that the critic’s job is to broadcast names and contribute to fame.
市场的狭窄化成功吸引了一波新手买家，他们把购买艺术品变成了一种时髦。这也导致了盲目收藏蔚为成风。大量金钱流向少数几个著名画家的作品，由此可见那些收藏家们当中很少有人具备勇气、鉴赏力乃至兴趣，去冒险远离那些已成陈规的经典作品。他们让画廊、艺术顾问和媒体替他们选择，而媒体当中又特别缺少艺术评论家。当评论界发言之前，什么好什么坏就已经事先被决定了，那么评论还有什么意义呢？在这个系统中，评论家的工作不过就是播报名字，促进名声。
Conservative art can encourage conservative criticism. We’re seeing a revival — some would say a disinterment — of a describe-the-strokes style of writing popular in the formalist 1950s and again in the 1970s: basically, glorified advertising copy. Evaluative approaches that developed in the 1980s and 1990s, based on the assumption that art inevitably comments on the social and political realities that produce it, tend to be met with disparagement now, in part because they’re often couched in academic jargon, which has become yet another form of sales-speak.
保守的艺术就必然鼓励保守的评论。在形式主义的20世纪50年代盛行一时、70年代曾经卷土重来的那种精心描述每一笔触的评论，如今再度复兴，有人觉得这是一种深入发掘，其实它基本上只是一种美化了的广告文案。从20世纪八九十年代开始发展的艺术品评价方式建立在这样一种假设之上：艺术不可避免地会反映出当时的社会与政治现实。如今这种评判方式可能会遭到轻蔑，部分原因是它们通常掩藏在学院派术语之中，而这些术语其实是另一种形式的销售宣传。
There’s no question that we need — art needs — an influx of new commentators who don’t mistake attitude for ideas, who move easily between cultures and geographies. Regular gigs in mainstream print journalism have all but dried up, but the Internet offers ambitious options in a growing number of blogazines including Art F City (edited by Paddy Johnson) and Hyperallergic (edited by Hrag Vartanian), which combine criticism, reporting, political activism and gossip on an almost-24-hour news cycle.
毫无疑问，我们和艺术都需要一种新型的评论家，他们不会把态度错当做观点，能在文化与全貌之间游刃有余。主流文字媒体记者们平时的文章都干巴巴的，而网上的评论能提供另一种充满雄心的选择，博客杂志日益增加，包括帕迪·约翰逊(Paddy Johnson)主编的“Art F City”和赫拉格·瓦尔塔尼安(Hrag Vartanian)主编的“Hyperallergic”，它们结合了评论、报道、政治激进主义与八卦，几乎实现了24小时新闻播报。
And although both are based in New York, they include national coverage and in a feisty mix of voices, a welcome alternative to the one-personality blog of yore. That mix would probably be even more varied, and transcultural, if a few forward-thinking, art-minded investors would infuse some serious capital into such enterprises so they could pay writers a living wage and make online freelance writing a viable way of life.
尽管两个网站都在纽约，它们都报道全国事件，并活跃地混杂了各种声音，不再是过去那种单人维护的博客，而是为读者提供一种颇受欢迎的选择。如果更有前瞻性、更有艺术思想的投资者们能认真为这样的网站注资，让它们可以付得起作者的最低工资，让网络自由撰稿人也能凭写作谋生的话，这些网站就可以跨越多种文化，变得更具多样性。
I don’t know what it would take to get a global mix of voices into some of New York’s big, rich art museums. If archaeologists of the future unearthed the Museum of Modern Art as it exists today, they would have to assume that Modernism was a purely European and North American invention. They would be wrong. Modernism was, and is, an international phenomenon, happening in different ways, on different timetables, for different reasons in Africa, Asia, Australia and South America.
我不知道该怎样才能让全球的声音汇集起来，走进纽约那些有钱的大美术馆。如果未来的考古学家从地下发掘出如今的MoMA，他们可能会觉得现代主义只是欧洲和北美的产物。他们是错的。现代主义曾经是，现在也是一种全球现象，在非洲、亚洲、澳洲与南美以各种不同形式发生，有着不同的进度与成因。
Why aren’t museums telling that story? Because it doesn’t sell. Why doesn’t it sell? Because it’s unfamiliar. Why is it unfamiliar? Because museums, with their eyes glued to box office, aren’t telling the story.
博物馆为什么没有讲出这个故事？因为这不能卖钱。为什么不能卖钱？因为它不为人们所熟悉。为什么不为人们所熟悉？因为博物馆的眼睛只盯着收入，不关心故事讲得如何。
Yes, MoMA and the Guggenheim have recently organized a few “non-Western” shows. MoMA’s  2012 “Tokyo 1955-1970: A New Avant-Garde,” packed to the ceiling with art we’ve rarely if ever seen, was a revelation. But they need to take actions far more fundamental and committed. International Modernism should be fully integrated into the permanent collection, regularly, consistently.
是的，MoMA和古根海姆博物馆最近也组织过几次“非西方”展览。MoMA2012年的“东京1955-1970：新先锋”展览中充满了我们之前几乎从没见过的艺术品，令人大开眼界。但他们需要采取更加基本、更负责任的行动。国际现代主义作品应当持续不断地被加入到博物馆的永久收藏之中。
Their job as public institutions is to change our habits of thinking and seeing. One way to do this is by bringing disparate cultures together in the same room, on the same wall, side by side. This sends two vital, accurate messages: that all these cultures are different but equally valuable; and all these cultures are also alike in essential ways, as becomes clear with exposure.
博物馆作为公共机构的职能，就是为了改变我们思考和观赏的习惯。其中一个方式就是把完全不同的文化并列放在同一个房间、同一面墙上展出。这会传达出两个至关重要、正确无误的信息：一切文化都是不同的，但都具有相等的价值；所有文化在某些基本方面也都有着相似之处，展览会令其变得清晰。
With its recently announced plans for an expansion, MoMA has an ideal chance to expand its horizons organically. The new spaces, which should certainly be devoted to the permanent collection, won’t be ready for several years, but the museum has no excuse for waiting for its long-overdue integration process to begin.
MoMA最近宣布了扩建计划，因此有了一个理想的机会，可以有机地扩展视野。肯定会用于展出永久藏品的新空间，几年内都不可能准备好，但艺术馆没有借口推迟开展已被拖延良久的整合计划。
And on the subject of integration, why, in one of the most ethnically diverse cities, does the art world continue to be a bastion of whiteness? Why are African-American curators and administrators, and especially directors, all but absent from our big museums? Why are there still so few black — and Latino, and Asian-American — critics and editors?
关于整合——在一个拥有众多种族的城市里，艺术世界为什么要继续充当白人的堡垒？为什么我们的大艺术馆里都见不到非裔美国策展人与管理者，特别是非裔董事们的身影？为什么黑人评论家与编辑也那么少——还有拉丁裔以及亚裔？
Not long ago, these questions — of policy but also political and ethical questions — seemed to be out there on institutional tables, demanding discussion. Technically, they may be there still, but museums seem to be most interested in talking about real estate, assiduously courting oligarchs for collections, and anxiously scouting for the next “Rain Room.” Political questions, about which cultures get represented in museums and who gets to make the decisions, and how, are buried.
不久前，这些问题——它们关乎政策，但也是政治和种族问题——似乎还被摆在公共机构的桌上等待讨论。从技术上来说，它们可能还在那里。但艺术馆们似乎对房地产、孜孜不倦地讨好收藏大家以及焦虑地寻找下一个“雨屋”(Rain Room)更感兴趣。什么样的文化可以被放在艺术馆中展出、由谁来做决定，怎样做决定等诸如此类的政治问题就被埋葬了。
Political art brings me back to where I started, with artists, and one final, baffled complaint, this one about art schools, which seem, in their present form, designed to accommodate the general art economy and its competitive, caste-system values. Programs are increasingly specialized, jamming students into ever narrower and flakier disciplinary tracks. Tuitions are prodigious, leaving artists indentured to creditors for years.
政治艺术带我回到本文开头——关于艺术家们的话题；下面我再做最后一个令人为难的抱怨，这是关于艺术学校的，它们目前的形式似乎是为了适应普遍的艺术经济及其充满竞争的种姓制度价值观。课程愈来愈专门化，大群学生走上愈来愈狭窄和规则更古怪的道路。学费高昂到难以置信，让艺术家们多年承担贷款债务。
How experimental can artists be under such circumstances? How confidently can they take risks in an environment that acknowledges only dollar-value success? How can they contemplate sustaining — to me this is crucial to New York’s future as an art center — long and evolving creative careers? The temptation for many artists, after a postgraduate spurt of confidence, is to look around, see what’s selling, and consider riffing on that. We’re seeing a depressing number of such riffs these days.
在这样一种情况下，艺术家们还能有多少实验性可言？在这样一个只以金钱价值衡量胜利的环境下，他们怎能有自信去冒险？他们怎能维持（在我看来这个问题对于保持纽约未来的艺术中心地位至关重要）长久而不断进步的创造生涯？四处张望，寻找什么东西能卖出去，考虑重复这种东西，对于经历了毕业后信心大爆发的艺术家们来说是很大的诱惑。如今我们见到了大量这样的重复，令人沮丧。
Again, do I exaggerate? And, again, sure, to some degree. By no means is all the news bad. Start-up galleries are opening; middle-tier galleries are holding their own, or doing better than that. Artist-intensive neighborhoods like Bushwick and Ridgewood are still affordable, companionable and fun.
再问一次，我是不是夸张了？我再说一遍，是的，在某种程度上是夸张了。肯定不会到处都是坏消息。新画廊在陆续开张，中等画廊在坚持自我，甚至做得更好。布什维克和里奇伍德等艺术家聚集的社区房租仍然可以接受，气氛仍然友好有趣。
But when the rents get too high, or the economy fails, or art buying falls out of fashion, and the art industry decides to liquidate its overvalued assets and leave? Artists, the first and last stakeholders, will have themselves to fall back on. They’ll learn to organize and agitate for what they need, to let City Hall know, in no uncertain terms, that they’re there. They’ll learn to share, not just on special occasions, but all the time. They’ll learn that art and politics are inseparable, and both can be anything and everything. They’ll learn to bring art back from the brink of inconsequence.
但当房租变得太高，或者经济下滑，又或者艺术购买不再时髦，艺术产业决定抛售估价过高的作品并且撤离的时候，那又该怎么办呢？艺术家们是最初也是最终的利益相关者，到时他们便会向后退却。他们将学会组织起来，主张自己的需要，以明确的方式让市议会知道他们的存在。他们将学会分享，不止是在特殊的场合，而是在所有时候。他们将明白，艺术与政治是密不可分的，二者都有可能意味着一切。他们将学着把艺术从边缘状态或不合理的状态来回来。
As someone long on questions and short on answers, let me ask: Why not start now?
作为一个擅长提问而不擅长回答的人，我要问：为什么不从现在就开始呢？