WUHAN, China — In her studio in Wuhan, a giant city in central China known more for heavy industry than for art, Luo Ying picks up a fine-tipped brush, dips it in ink and begins delicately painting bamboo leaves on rice paper.
中国武汉——在位于武汉的工作室里，罗莹拿起一支尖头毛笔，用它蘸上墨，开始在宣纸上精细地描画竹叶。武汉是中国中部的大城市，它的重工业比艺术更知名。
The images, done in the realist ‘‘gongbi’’ style — of bamboo trees, bright-eyed birds, blossoming flowers and ethereal grasses — are instantly familiar to every Chinese, part of the beguiling aesthetic of an ancient civilization transmitted unchanged for generations.
这些以写实的“工笔”手法绘成的图像，包括竹子、双目生辉的鸟儿、绽放的花朵和空灵的草地，对每个中国人而言是如此的熟悉，它们构成了古代文化令人沉迷的审美观的一部分，这种文化世代相传，未曾改变。
Then Ms. Luo grasps a curve ruler and, with an ordinary felt-tip pen, adds a thick line, often in black but also in green, China blue or red. Suddenly, a rational, rectangular leaf sprouts from a bamboo tree; a bird’s claws grip an industrial-looking twig. The result is an exquisite, but exploded, image of bucolic perfection. Seeing it for the first time, many Chinese laugh in disbelief at the intrusion, a cuckoo’s egg in another bird’s nest.
接着，罗莹抓起一把曲尺，用一支普通的记号笔添了一条粗线，这样的线条常常是黑色的，不过也可能是绿色、中国蓝或红色。于是突然之间，一株竹子上冒出了一片理性的、长方形的叶子；一只鸟的爪子抓住了一根工业化外观的细枝。她的笔下诞生了一副田园风格的完美画面，它是精致的，也是破碎的。第一次看见这样的画面时，许多中国人会因为对这种“侵入”感到难以置信，而发出笑声，就像是把杜鹃的蛋放在了另一种鸟的巢里。
‘‘It’s a computer line. It’s very forceful,’’ she said of her creation, which evokes design in its clarity. ‘‘It’s a line like you find in information technology, with hard edges. Without feeling, because computers don’t have feelings. A line by an artist has feelings because a person has feelings,’’ she said.With her signature line Ms. Luo upturns centuries of tradition and offers a daring rethink of the meaning of traditional Chinese painting which has struggled for the past century with how to re-invent itself amid a haunting sense of being out of step with the modern world. She has arrived on the scene with a blaze of artistic and intellectual power that has people talking — and drawn the approving attention of the state-run artistic establishment, too.
罗莹谈到她的作品时说，“这是一条电脑的线条。它非常有力。”她的创作传达出了清晰的设计感。她说，“就像是在信息技术里见到的线条，边沿都是硬的。它没有情感，因为电脑没有情感。艺术家画的线条是有情感的，因为人是有情感的。”运用标志性的线条，罗莹颠覆了世代延续的传统，对传统中国画的意义进行了大胆的反思。过去的一个世纪里，中国画无法摆脱与现代世界脱节的感觉，一直在苦苦探索如何才能重焕新生。她以自己充盈的艺术能量和知识力量加入了这场探索，成了众人谈论的对象，也吸引了官方艺术机构赞许的关注。
Her line also highlights questions that gnaw at Chinese as they proudly watch their country rising in the world: How shall we carry our tradition forward? Even: Who are we in the modern world?
她的线条也突显出了，中国人在骄傲地观察着中国的崛起之时，仍然萦绕心头的一些问题：我们该如何把自己的传统发扬光大？甚至是，在现代世界里，我们是谁？
‘‘I want to develop our tradition. Not to give up on it,’’ Ms. Luo, dressed in baggy jeans, her wavy hair flowing free, said in her studio at the Wuhan University of Technology’s School of Art and Design where she teaches. ‘‘I want to do this because I want traditional art to keep up with the times, not become irrelevant. This is new Chinese painting.’’Tao Yongbai, a critic, does not see tradition, but rather its overturn.
罗莹在她的工作室里说，“我想发展我们的传统，而不是放弃它。”她穿着宽松的牛仔裤，一头波浪发随意地摆动着。这个工作室位于她任教的武汉理工大学艺术与设计学院。“我要这么做，是因为我想让传统艺术跟上时代，不与时代脱节。这是新的中国画。”但在评论人陶永白看来，与其说是见到了传统，不如说是见到了对传统的颠覆。
‘‘When I look at what she does, I think of Marcel Duchamp drawing a mustache and beard on the Mona Lisa,’’ said Ms. Tao, a member of the Chinese National Academy of Arts, speaking at a discussion panel  in September at an exhibition of Ms. Luo’s work at the SZ Art Center in Beijing’s 798 Art District.
中国艺术研究院研究员陶永白在今年9月的一次讨论会上说，“看到她的做法，让我想起了马塞尔·杜尚(Marcel Duchamp)给蒙娜丽莎(Mona Lisa)肖像画胡须。”讨论会是在罗莹作品在北京798艺术区的圣之空间艺术中心展出期间举行的。
‘‘The value of her line is in its destructive power and its critical power,’’ Ms. Tao said. ‘‘It enters the classical canon with a rebellious spirit, and you can see it’s a female critique of male-centered cultural history,’’ she said. Painting, as well as composing poetry, was one of the accomplishments of the Confucian gentleman. Women were largely shut out of the arts in traditional China.
陶永白说，“她的线的价值，在于它的破坏力和批判力。它带着反叛精神，闯入了古典作品的领域，你能看到，它的作品是女性对以男性为中心的文化历史的批判。”绘画和作诗一样，是儒家士大夫的成就之一。在传统中国社会，女性在很大程度上是被排除在艺术之外的。
Ms. Luo counts among the contemporary art aristocracy, having exhibited in the landmark China/Avant-Garde Exhibition in the National Art Gallery in Beijing in February 1989, along with well-known artists like Zhang Xiaogang, Xu Bing and Xiao Lu. After that, she largely fell out of view, spending quiet years in Wuhan, a city she prefers to the political and cultural center of Beijing.
罗莹属于当代艺术界新贵的行列，1989年2月，她参与了在北京的中国美术馆举办的展览《中国艺术展》。这是一次里程碑式的中国前卫艺术展览，与她一同参展的还有张晓刚、徐冰、肖鲁等知名艺术家。在那以后，她基本上就淡出了公众视野，她在武汉安静地生活了很多年。相比政治和文化中心北京，她更喜爱这座城市。
‘‘Artists move to Beijing and they’re too busy with their social lives to paint. They don’t do anything good after they go there,’’ she said. She perfected her technique and wrote a doctoral thesis then a book on the different lines of classical Chinese painting — 18, according to strict tradition.
她说，“艺术家搬到北京，就会忙于社交，而不是绘画。去北京后，做不出什么好事来。”她完善了自己的技法，并且就中国古典绘画的不同线条先是写了一篇博士论文，又写了一本书。按照严格的传统，这些线条称作“十八描”。
The art scholar Tong Yujie, the curator of Ms. Luo’s exhibition, says that Ms. Luo has made art history with her interrupting line. She dubs it, only partly joking, ‘‘the 19th line.’’
艺术学者佟玉洁是罗莹展览的策展人。她说，罗莹靠她打破传统的线条，在艺术上创造了历史。她半开玩笑地把这称作“十九描”。
‘‘She’s creating a contemporary theory of the line, a language system,’’ said Ms. Tong.Some feel her line is too different from others in the genre to qualify.
佟玉洁说，“她创造了一种关于线条的现代理论，一套语言体系。”有些人认为，她的线条与其他人风格上的差异太大，无法进行归类。
‘‘It’s awkward,’’ said Wu Hong, a curator and the editor of the online art magazine Artintern.net. ‘‘Those lines were changed and added to over time because they reflected the individuality of the painters,’’ but Ms. Luo’s, he said, lacks individuality.
策展人及在线艺术杂志“艺术国际”(Artintern.net)总编辑吴鸿说，“很尴尬。随着时间的推移，这些线条被修改过，也添加过，因为它们反映的是画家的个体性。”而他说，罗莹的线条欠缺个体性。
‘‘I think her art is conceptual art. Maybe the line addresses the issue of masculine culture,’’ he said, a disruption by a woman of a traditionally male sphere.
他说，“我认为她的艺术属于概念艺术。或许她笔下的线条应对的是男性文化的问题。”这是一名女性对传统上由男性主导的领域所做的突破。
Others agree that Ms. Luo’s gender is relevant to her work.
其他人也认同罗莹的性别与她的作品存在关联。
‘‘Luo Ying, as a female painter, plays with the closed-off and solemn space of traditional Chinese literati painting,’’ Shen Wei, a professor at the Hubei Institute of Fine Arts, wrote in an essay titled ‘‘Orchid and Bamboo, Black Line, Woman.’’
“画家罗莹则是以一个女性艺术家的身份游戏于这个封闭而严肃的文人画空间，”湖北美术学院教授沈伟在一篇题为《兰竹·墨线·女性》的文章中写道。
‘‘With the addition of one or more abstract black lines she creates out of the self-defining symbols of the literati — the orchid and bamboo — a ridiculous vision, a vision of resistance, showing her courage and wisdom in breaking through the symbols of male art,’’ Mr. Shen wrote.
沈伟写道，“她把传统文人自喻的象征物——文雅的兰竹由一笔或几笔抽象的墨线条摆弄成荒唐而又具有对抗的视觉效果，这样尖锐性、异端性的绘画符号，充分显示了罗莹对于冲破男性艺术符号的勇气和智慧。”
Ms. Luo is aware of the significance of her gender in China’s art world, which is still heavily masculine. ‘‘It’s extremely difficult for a woman artist to succeed here — unless she’s married to a male artist,’’ she said. Her own husband is not an artist. ‘‘He supports me amazingly. I’m very lucky,’’ she said.
罗莹知道她的性别在至今仍由男性重重把持的中国艺术世界所具有的意义。她说，“在这里，女艺术家要想取得成功十分困难，除非她嫁给了一个男艺术家。”她的丈夫不是艺术家，她说，“他很热情地支持我，我很幸运。”
Yet she eschews explicit feminist interpretations of her work, displaying an interpretive caution that may explain why the conservative state arts establishment is courting her as it seeks to create a culturally and esthetically modern sense of ‘‘Chineseness.’’ The National Museum of China, on Tiananmen Square in Beijing, has invited her to exhibit in 2015, she said, calling it an honor.
然而她本人却不愿对自己的作品做出明显女性主义的解读。这种对于阐释的警惕态度，或许解释了为什么保守的国家艺术机构，在试图为“中国性”这个概念创造一种文化上和美学上的新意义时，会对她大加追求。她说，位于天安门广场的国家博物馆邀请她在2015年举行展览，她形容这是一个荣誉。
Of course, plenty of Chinese artists are grappling with how to merge tradition and modernity.
当然，很多中国艺术家都在艰难地探索怎样融合传统和现代。
Speaking at the discussion forum in Beijing, Hang Chunxiao, a curator and scholar at the Chinese National Academy of Arts, called her works ‘‘very typical of efforts among the genre to break through, to change, to get out of its predicament.’’
中国艺术研究院的一位策展人和学者杭春晓在北京的那场讨论会上发言时，形容她的作品“在那种突破、改变、脱离困境的艺术风格中是很典型的尝试”。
Many artists today prefer Western media like oils or digital art, but Ms. Luo is loyal to the old materials.‘‘I use Chinese ink, Chinese brushes and Chinese paper,’’ she said.
现在许多艺术家青睐油画颜料或数字艺术等西方介质，然而罗莹却忠实于传统的原料。她说，“我使用中国的墨汁、中国的毛笔和中国的纸。”
Whether developing tradition or deconstructing it — or both — her line appears not only in her nature paintings, which are often copies of well-known works like bird paintings by the Song dynasty emperor Huizong, but also on human figures. On those, silhouettelike, it runs along the outer edges of the object.
无论是发展传统还是解构传统，抑或二者兼有，她的墨线不仅出现在描绘自然的作品中，也常常出现在人像作品中。描绘自然的作品常常是临摹古代的著名画作，如宋徽宗画的鸟。在这些画作中，线条会像轮廓一样沿着物体的边缘划过。
‘‘Chinese painting is two-dimensional, but this line reminds us there’s always another dimension,’’ she said later, in her home studio in a modern high-rise development in the Wuchang district of Wuhan, on the southern bank of the Yangtze River.
她后来在家中的画室里说，“中国画是二维的，但这个线条能提醒我们，总有另外一个维度。”她的家位于武汉市武昌区长江畔一座现代的高层楼宇中。
Another tradition update. ‘‘Nothing in life is flat,’’ she said. ‘‘Everything has many surfaces.’’
这是对传统的另一个更新。“生活中没有什么是平的，”她说，“所有东西都有很多面。”