When the Chinese artist Sun Xun was growing up in Fuxin, a small city near the North Korean border, he already knew that China was a country with at least two histories. In school, during the day, he studied the Chinese history presented in official accounts, a version remarkably free of such troubling episodes as the Great Leap Forward or the Cultural Revolution.
当中国艺术家孙逊在离朝鲜边境不远的小城阜新长大时，他就已经知道，中国是一个至少有两种历史的国家。白天在学校时，他学习的是官方描述的中国历史，这个版本很显然地剔除了像大跃进或文化大革命那样令人不安的章节。
Then, at night, his father would sit him down for a more personal account of the truth, describing what happened to his family during the 1960s and ’70s, when his grandmother was marched into a public square, forced to wear a dunce cap and declaimed as a bourgeois collaborator for her upper-class background.
然后到了晚上，他的父亲会让他坐下来，以更个人化的角度讲述历史真相，描述上世纪六、七十年代他的家族所遭遇的故事。那时，他的祖母会被押到一个广场上，被迫戴上一顶高帽子，因为她上等家庭的出身而被斥为资产阶级内奸。
Today, Mr. Sun is obsessed with Chinese history as it is recounted and manipulated in museum exhibitions and books, and as it is recalled by its participants. He examines it through ink art, an inherited tradition, making installations and video animations from thousands of meticulously drawn frames. They often feature a political leader in the guise of a magician, “the only legal liar,” according to Mr. Sun.
如今，随着中国历史在博物馆的展览和书籍中得到再现、受到篡改，并由参与其中的人回顾，孙逊开始对它着迷起来。他以传统的水墨艺术来审视它，用一帧帧精心绘成的画面来制作装置和动画。它们的主角常常是一个伪装成魔术师的政治领袖，孙逊说，他是“唯一合法的骗子”。
He takes inspiration from political cartoons, biology books, instruction manuals and newsreels, yet like many Chinese artists of his generation — he was born in 1980 — he avoids didactic conclusions about China’s government, preferring to couch his criticisms in surreal metaphors. Often animals and insects stand in for human emotions, and conflicts and weapons punctuate scenes fraught with paranoia.
他的灵感来自于政治漫画、生物学书籍、说明书和新闻短片。然而，出生于1980年的孙逊也和他同时代的中国艺术家一样，不愿对中国政府做出说教式的结论，而是更乐于以超现实的隐喻来表达批判。人类情感往往通过动物和昆虫体现，而充满了妄想色彩的场景则时不时被冲突和武器所打断。
Sun Xun (pronounced soon shoon), who lives in Beijing, where he runs his studio, Pi Animation, is spending the fall in New York to research the American scene in preparation for a solo show next fall. His stay is sponsored by Sean Kelly Gallery, which found him an apartment in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, and will exhibit his work next year.
孙逊生活在北京，在这里经营他的π格动画工作室。他今年秋天正在纽约对美国采风，也为明年秋天的个展做准备。他的纽约之行由肖恩·凯利画廊(Sean Kelly Gallery)赞助，画廊为他在布鲁克林的格林堡(Fort Greene)找了一间公寓，还会在明年展出他的作品。
But first his work will be in the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s exhibition “Ink Art: Past as Present in Contemporary China,” its first show of Chinese contemporary art, opening on Dec. 11.
但是他的作品将首先在大都会艺术博物馆(Metropolitan Museum of Art)的展览“水墨艺术：借古说今中国当代艺术”(Ink Art: Past as Present in Contemporary China)中展出，这是该馆的第一场中国当代艺术展，将于12月11日开幕。
Though video art is a comparatively new medium — and certainly new for the Met’s Chinese painting galleries, with their focus on classical scroll paintings — artists like Mr. Sun fit in because they “exploit traditional modes of representation in how they narrate their stories,” said Maxwell Hearn, the show’s curator, who is also in charge of the museum’s Asian art department.
虽然视频艺术是相对较新的一种媒介，而且对重点展示中国传统书画的大都会中国画展厅来说，这无疑是新的尝试。孙逊等艺术家的作品适合在这里展出，是因为他们“在叙述自己的故事时，采用了传统的表达方式”，展览的策展人马克斯韦尔·赫恩(Maxwell Hearn)说道。他也负责博物馆的亚洲部。
“Ink Art,” a survey of Chinese artists from 1980 to the present who are experimenting and innovating with the classical medium of ink-and-brush painting, will place Mr. Sun in a continuum that begins with pioneers like the dissident Ai Weiwei and the MacArthur grant recipient Xu Bing. The museum will show Mr. Sun’s 2011 animation “Some Actions Which Haven’t Been Defined Yet in the Revolution,” a day in the life of a typical Chinese worker that begins with an alarm clock ringing and ends with a bomb exploding. It took more than a year to produce, based on over 5,000 woodcuts, a technique dating to at least the Diamond Sutra, from 868 A.D., one of the earliest surviving examples of a printed book. But Mr. Sun’s adaptation borrows heavily from state-sponsored promotional woodcuts used during Mao’s time as an inexpensive means of propaganda.
“水墨艺术”将展示从1980年至今，试验并革新传统水墨画技法的中国艺术家们，展览将孙逊放在了不断尝试的连续语境中。这段尝试的开端是异见人士艾未未和麦克阿瑟奖(MacArthur)得主徐冰等先锋人物。大都会艺术博物馆将展出孙逊2011年的动画作品《一场革命中还未来得及定义的行为》。这部片子讲述了一名普通中国工人一天的生活，始于闹钟响，终于一场炸弹爆炸。这部作品是在5000多幅木刻版画的基础上制作完成的，花了一年多的时间。木刻技法至少可追溯到公元868年的《金刚经》——现存时间最早的印刷书籍之一。但孙逊在创作中大量借鉴了毛时代的宣传版画，当时国家提倡将此作为廉价的大众宣传手段。
“Sun Xun is one of the youngest and most prolific video artists active in China today,” Mr. Hearn writes in a catalog essay. “Though his images share the same angular, rough-hewed quality of the New Woodcut Movement, their message is darker and less inspiring, a dystopian vision of rootlessness and confusion.”
赫恩在画册中撰文写道，“孙逊是如今活跃在中国的最年轻、最多产的视频艺术家之一。虽然他的画面同样具有新木刻运动生硬、粗制的风格，但它们所传达的信息却更黑暗，也不那么鼓舞人心，是一幅对漂泊感和困惑的反乌托邦式诠释。”
Mr. Sun learned calligraphy and ink-and-brush painting while training at the China Academy of Art in Hangzhou, from which he graduated in 2005. He had left home at 15 to attend the academy’s high school, experiencing severe culture shock as he navigated the differences between a newly modernized city and his provincial hometown. “Everyone where I grew up, including my parents, worked in a factory and thought that people in business were evil capitalists,” he said. “But in Hangzhou, everyone was doing business.”
孙逊在杭州的中国美术学院学习了书法和水墨画，2005年毕业。他15岁时离家到中国美术学院附中上学，在偏远的家乡和一座新兴现代化城市之间，他探索着二者间的不同之处，感到强烈的文化震撼。“在我长大的地方，包括我父母在内的每一个人都在工厂工作，他们认为做生意的人都是邪恶的资本家，”他说，“但是在杭州，每个人都从商。”
He struggled to reconcile his conflicting experiences: official history versus family stories, state-controlled factories versus the new market economy, and past versus present. He found new insights in Martin Heidegger and Michel Foucault, philosophers he encountered in college.
他努力调和这些矛盾的经历：官方阐述的历史与家庭的故事相对比，国有工厂与新兴的市场经济相对比，过去与现在相对比。他读大学的时候接触到了马丁·海德格尔(Martin Heidegger)和米歇尔·福柯(Michel Foucault)等哲学家的作品，并从中汲取了新的洞见。
While in New York, Mr. Sun’s itinerary has included the American Museum of Natural History, the New York Public Library and the United States Military Academy at West Point. “Most people look at history like a performance on a stage,” he said. “They don’t look behind the curtains to see what is really happening. Museums and libraries are windows onto the truth.”
孙逊在纽约的行程包括美国自然历史博物馆(American Museum of Natural History) 、纽约公共图书馆(New York Public Library)，以及西点军校(United States Military Academy at West Point)。“大多数人将历史看作是舞台上的一场表演，”他说。“他们不会走到帷幕后面去了解真正发生的事情。博物馆和图书馆就是通向真相的窗口。”
Enthralled with taxonomies, Mr. Sun ran around the natural history museum, photographing the Hall of Biodiversity and the dioramas of birds, excited to incorporate various species into his coming installations.
孙逊被各类展品深深吸引，在自然历史博物馆四处探索，在生物多样性展厅拍照，还拍下了各种鸟类的模型，兴奋地打算将不同的物种融入他将要创作的装置作品中。
At West Point, he visited its museum, devoted to military history from ancient times to the war on terrorism, and toured the campus. He was disappointed that he could not go inside classrooms and learn about the curriculum, but he lit up at the museum display cases, with their models of military conflicts. Demonstrating a formidable knowledge of Western political history, he offered up details about the Thirty Years’ War and the American Revolution. “Don’t think of it as murder, think of it as design,” he said, as he constantly snapped pictures of pistols, muskets, rifles and machine guns with his iPhone.
他参观了西点军校的博物馆，其中有从古代战争到现代反恐战争的军事史，还参观了校园。由于无法进入教室、了解课程设置，他感到有些失望。但看到博物馆的展示柜时又兴奋了起来，那里陈列着描绘军事冲突的模型。他讲述了三十年战争和美国革命的许多细节，展示了他对西方政治史的深入了解。他一边不停地用iPhone拍摄手枪、火枪、步枪、机枪的照片，一边说，“不要把它理解成杀人工具，把它理解成设计。”
“I always thought if there is a war, I want Sun Xun to be my general because he is the most focused, fearless strategist,” said James Elaine, director of Telescope, a nonprofit project space in Beijing, who brought Mr. Sun’s installation “New China” to the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles in 2008. Mr. Sun, who spoke little English then, lived in the museum for a month creating a total environment of paintings, as well as showing a new animation.
位于北京的非营利项目空间望远镜(Telescope)的负责人林杰明(James Elaine)说，“我总是在想，如果爆发战争，我希望孙逊是我的将军，因为他是最专注的、最无畏的战略家。”在2008年，林杰明将孙逊的作品《新中国》带到了洛杉矶的海默博物馆(Hammer Museum)。当时几乎不会讲英语的孙逊在博物馆驻留了一个月，布置出一个完全由画作构成的环境，还展示了一部新的动画作品。
During this current stay in New York, his apartment is already filled with ink paintings of birds and dinosaurs, explosive images with thick black lines and aggressive colors. He said he does not consider his work as purely political. “As an artist, to narrow your focus only on the political is dangerous,” he said.
孙逊目前在纽约居住的公寓里摆满了以鸟和恐龙为主题的水墨画，这些由粗黑线条和大胆色彩构成的图像给人带来强烈的视觉冲击。他表示，他不认为他的作品完全是政治性的。他说，“作为一名艺术家，只关注政治主题是非常危险的。”
He recalled watching news of the Tiananmen Square uprising on television with his father when he was 9. When asked if he supported democracy in China, he at first didn’t understand “democracy” and looked up its meaning on Google Translate. “Ah yes, democracy, yes, of course, but which democracy?” he asked, ready to debate the differences among the French, British and American systems of government.
他回忆起9岁那年，他和爸爸在电视上收看天安门广场民运的新闻。当被问到是否支持在中国实行民主时，他起初不理解“democracy”这个英语单词，通过谷歌(Google)翻译查找了它的涵义。他问道，“哦，民主，当然支持，但哪种民主呢？”接着就准备讨论法国、英国及美国政体的区别。
Mr. Sun already knows what he would like to do at Sean Kelly Gallery next year: an installation incorporating his father’s stories about the Cultural Revolution, a subject that would be tricky to pull off in China. Next year he will stay in the gallery for a month, painting on the walls and building props for four new films, a process that will be open to the public. “New York is a museum with all kinds of people here, everybody with their own stories,” he said. “I am part of this museum, too, so I should share my father’s story. You may or may not believe what I tell you. But it doesn’t matter, because this is my art.”
孙逊已经知道明年想在肖恩·凯利画廊做些什么了：融入父亲文革故事的一个装置作品，要在中国讨论文革题材仍然十分棘手。明年，他将在该画廊驻留一个月，在墙上作画，并为四部新影片制作道具，整个过程将向公众开放。“纽约是一个汇聚了各种人的大博物馆，每个人都有自己的故事，”他说。“我也是这个博物馆的一部分，因此，我应该分享我父亲的故事。你可能相信，也可能不相信我给你讲的故事。但没关系，因为这就是我的艺术。”