A personal escort — flying first class to be well rested and alert — will accompany the painting “The Head of Christ” from the moment it leaves the Boijmans Van Beuningen museum in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, until it is safely locked in the vault at Springfield Museums in Massachusetts this month, when it will be exhibited in the United States for the first time.
《基督之首》(The Head of Christ)一离开荷兰鹿特丹的博伊曼斯-凡伯宁根(Boijmans Van Beuningen)博物馆，就会有专人开始护送。为了确保护送人员能得到良好的休息，并保持警觉，此人会坐头等舱。直到这幅画这个月安全地锁在马萨诸塞州春田博物馆(Springfield Museums)的保险库里，护送工作才算结束。本月，这幅画将首次在美国展出。
A 24-hour escort is not an unusual requirement for valuable international museum loans. What makes the security arrangements — estimated to cost more than $31,000 — notable in this case is that the painting is a fake.
博物馆之间跨国借出珍贵展品时，要求24小时有专人看管并不是罕见的举动。但这次耗资估计超过3.1万美元（约合19万元人民币）的安保措施之所以值得一提，是因为这幅画是伪作。
And it is not just any fake, but an imitation Vermeer by the most notorious forger of all: Han van Meegeren, the World War II-era painter whose counterfeits were so convincing that, after the war, he had to create one for witnesses to avoid harsh punishment for selling a national treasure to the Nazi leader Hermann Göring.
它并不是一副普通的伪作，而是有史以来最臭名昭著的伪画制造者汉·凡米格伦(Han van Meegeren)临摹的维米尔(Vermeer)作品。凡米格伦是二战时期的画家，其伪作十分逼真，以至于在战后不得不面对证人创作一幅，才得以摆脱向纳粹领袖赫尔曼·戈林(Hermann Göring)出售国宝的严厉惩罚。
Clearly, some forgeries are more equal than others. In New York, buyers of some of the dozens of multimillion-dollar fakes sold through the Knoedler & Company gallery, now shuttered, have filed lawsuits, complaining that their vaunted Modern masterpieces are now “worthless.”
显然，一些赝品相对其他赝品得到了更平等的待遇。在纽约，一些藏家通过诺德勒画廊(Knoedler & Company)购得了数十件售价高达几百万美元的伪作，这些买主已经提起诉讼，称他们本以为价值连城的现代艺术杰作现在“一钱不值”了。诺德勒画廊已经关张大吉。
But the Boijmans loan, “The Head of Christ,” and other famous fakes with which it is being exhibited in a traveling show retain a valuable mystique. “They’re not original artworks, but they’re so prestigious that they require the same security measures as an authentic work,” said Julia Courtney, Springfield Museums’ curator of art.
但是博伊曼斯博物馆借出的《基督之首》，以及与它在巡展中共同陈列的其他几幅著名伪作，仍然有着极具价值的神秘气息。春田博物馆艺术部主任朱莉亚·科特尼(Julia Courtney)说，“它们不是原创作品，但由于如此有声望，因而需要给予像真迹一样的安保措施。”
Citing security concerns, the lending and borrowing museums all declined to reveal the works’ estimated worth or insurance information. But the paintings are being treated like the real thing. “The requirements for security are not different than other works we give on loan,” said Friso Lammertse, the curator of old master paintings at the Boijmans. Never mind that the accustomed home of “The Head of Christ” is a Boijmans storage room.
出于安全考虑，借出和借入的博物馆都拒绝透露作品的估值或保险信息。然而这些画作完全被当做了真迹对待。博伊曼斯博物馆负责艺术大师旧作的策展人弗里索·拉梅策(Friso Lammertse)说，“安保要求与我们借出的其他作品没有差别。”尽管《基督之首》经常所处的位置是博伊曼斯博物馆的一间储藏室。
So, in addition to a personal escort, van Meegeren’s “Christ,” for example, will have an outside conservator scrutinize every inch of the canvas and frame when it leaves a museum and after it arrives, to report on its condition.
因此，举例来说，凡米格伦的基督像除有专人护送之外，每当画作离开一家博物馆和到达一家博物馆时，还会有一名外聘的文物管理员仔细检查每一寸画布和画框，汇报画作的状况。
“The Head of Christ” is part of the exhibition “Intent to Deceive: Fakes and Forgeries in the Art World,” which includes two other van Meegerens, “The Girl With the Blue Bow,” once credited to Vermeer, from the Hyde Collection in Glens Falls, N.Y., and “The Procuress,” from the Courtauld Gallery in London.
这场题为“欺骗的意图：艺术世界的伪作和赝品”(Intent to Deceive: Fakes and Forgeries in the Art World)的展览中，收入了《基督之首》和另外两幅凡米格伦作品——来自纽约州格伦瀑布市海德藏馆(Hyde Collection)的《戴蓝色蝴蝶结的少女》(The Girl With the Blue Bow)，这幅画曾被归为维米尔作品；以及来自伦敦考陶尔德画廊(Courtauld Gallery)的《老鸨》(The Procuress)。
The show will travel to the Ringling Museum of Art in Sarasota, Fla.; the Canton Museum of Art in Ohio; and the Oklahoma City Museum of Art. Other forgeries in the show are by celebrated con men like Elmyr de Hory, a Hungarian who said he sold a thousand fakes; John Myatt, whose collaborator infiltrated archives at the Tate Gallery, the Victoria and Albert Museum and the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, to plant fake provenance documents; and Mark A. Landis, a former gallery owner who dressed as a Jesuit priest during the quarter-century he spent trying to donate his forgeries to more than 40 American museums.
巡展还将在佛罗里达州萨拉索塔的瑞格林艺术博物馆(Ringling Museum of Art)、俄亥俄州的坎顿美术馆(Canton Museum of Art)、俄克拉何马市立美术馆(Oklahoma City Museum of Art)展览。展览中的其他伪作则出自一些著名骗子之手，包括艾米尔·德霍瑞(Elmyr de Hory)，他是匈牙利人，自称售出了一千幅伪作；约翰·迈亚特(John Myatt)，他的同谋渗透进了泰特美术馆(Tate Gallery)、维多利亚与艾尔伯特博物馆(Victoria and Albert Museum)、伦敦的当代艺术中心(Institute of Contemporary Arts)的档案馆，放入伪造的来历证明文件；以及马克·A·兰蒂斯(Mark A. Landis)，此人曾是一名画廊主，在过去四分之一个世纪的时间里，他假扮成耶稣会牧师，试图将自己的赝品捐赠给美国40多家博物馆。
What links these men, said Colette Loll, the exhibition’s curator and an art investigator, are “frustrated artistic ambitions, chaotic personal lives and a contempt for the art market and its experts.”
科莱特·罗尔(Colette Loll)是此次展览的策展人，她也从事艺术品调查。罗尔说，这些人之间的共同之处在于“艺术志向受挫、个人生活混乱、蔑视现代艺术市场和专家”。
Ms. Loll, who organized the exhibition with the nonprofit group International Arts & Artists, said she was shocked when she heard the $31,000 estimate for the security arrangements demanded by just the Boijmans.
这次展览是罗尔与非营利团体国际艺术及艺术家协会(International Arts & Artists)共同组织的。她说，在得知单单博伊曼斯博物馆要求的安保措施，估计花费就高达3.1万美元时，她很震惊。
That sum is close to the $39,500 that “Christ and the Scribes in the Temple” — the painting van Meegeren created in 1945 to prove he was a forger rather than a collaborator — fetched at Christie’s auction house in 1996.
这个金额接近1996年凡米格伦画的《神殿里的基督和记录员》(Christ and the Scribes in the Temple)在佳士得拍卖行(Christie’s)拍出的价格3.95万美元。凡米格伦在1945年绘制这幅画是为了证明自己只是一个作伪者，而不是通敌犯。
Forgeries invariably raise knotty questions about the value of art and faith in the market, and fuel cynicism about art experts.
伪作无一例外地会对艺术的价值，以及市场的信用提出棘手的问题，也会激发起怀疑艺术专家的情绪。
In November, a spirited debate about the value of forgeries played out on the website and pages of The New York Times after the art critic Blake Gopnik declared that forgers could be “an art lover’s friend.”
去年11月，艺术批评家布莱克·戈普尼克(Blake Gopnik)在《纽约时报》撰文称，作伪者可能是“艺术爱好者的朋友”，之后《纽约时报》的网站和报纸上，围绕伪作的价值发生了一场激烈的辩论。
And last year, Jonathon Keats, who wrote “Forged: Why Fakes Are the Great Art of Our Age,” argued that “forgeries are more real than the real artworks they fake” because “they genuinely manipulate society rather than merely illustrating alternate points of view.”
去年，著有《作伪：为何赝品是当今时代的伟大艺术》(Forged: Why Fakes Are the Great Art of Our Age)一书的乔纳森·济慈(Jonathon Keats)写道，“伪作比它们模仿的真迹，更真实”，因为“它们真正在操纵社会，而不是仅仅在描绘不同的视角”。
Interest in counterfeits may have less lofty roots, however. Everybody loves a juicy scandal. The van Meegerens can also draw on the continuing fascination with World War II and the Nazis’ looting of Europe. Hailed as a kind of folk hero during his 1947 trial for having duped Göring, van Meegeren was later shown to be a Nazi sympathizer and inveterate rogue who swindled buyers out of the equivalent of $106 million.
不过人们对伪作的兴趣并不都是出于崇高的目的，所有人都喜爱鲜活的丑闻。这些凡米格伦的画作，也可以借助人们对二战和纳粹劫掠欧洲的持续兴趣而吸引关注。在1947年的审判中，凡米格伦因为蒙骗了戈林，而被誉为某种民族英雄，但之后人们却发现他同情纳粹，而且死性难改地欺骗买家，诈取了约1.06亿美元。
One of his facsimiles, “The Supper at Emmaus,” cited by the dean of Vermeer scholars as a, perhaps the, “masterpiece of Johannes Vermeer” was bought in 1938 by the Rembrandt Society of Rotterdam for the Boijmans for 520,000 guilders, the equivalent of about $6.4 million today. “The Head of Christ,” sold for 475,000 guilders in 1941 ($4.4 million today), was thought to be a study for “The Supper at Emmaus.”
凡米格伦复制的《以马忤斯的晚餐》(The Supper at Emmaus)，被最资深的维米尔专家称为“约翰尼斯·维米尔(Johannes Vermeer)的一幅杰作”，甚至是最出色的杰作。鹿特丹伦勃朗协会(Rembrandt Society of Rotterdam)在1938年以52万荷兰盾的价格（相当于现在的640万美元），替博伊曼斯博物馆买下。《基督之首》在1941年以47.5万荷兰盾的价格售出，相当于现在的440万美元，这幅画被认为是《以马忤斯的晚餐》的习作。
Part of the enduring lure of the van Meegerens, undoubtedly, is the satisfaction of knowing that the most rarefied connoisseurs were duped by what now look to be ham-handed fakes.
凡米格伦的画作之所以有持久的吸引力，无疑是因为得知最高端的鉴赏家受到蒙骗时，所产生的满足感。这些画作今天看来显然是拙劣的伪作。
As Jonathan Lopez wrote in his 2008 book about van Meegeren, “The Man Who Made Vermeers,” “Although the best forgeries may mimic the style of a long-dead artist, they tend to reflect the taste and attitudes of their own period.” Biblical scenes tapped into a sentimental and pastoral Germanic tradition, he notes, while the portraits of girls resembled 1920s flappers.
乔纳森·洛佩兹(Jonathan Lopez)在2008年出版的关于凡米格伦的书《不存在的维米尔》(The Man Who Made Vermeers)中写道，“尽管最棒的作伪者能够模仿已经去世很久的艺术家的风格，但他们常常会反映出自己所在时期的品味和态度。”他写道，圣经的场景中融入了情感充沛、有传教意味的日尔曼传统，而他的画作中出现的女子则酷似20世纪20年代的时髦女郎。
The works in “Intent to Deceive” are less art than artifacts; they have genuine historical significance. In that sense, these fakes underscore the persistent appeal of the real thing. Copies of a van Meegeren fake would not command such costly security precautions or draw visitors.
与其说“欺骗的意图”展览中的作品是艺术，不如说是古董，它们具有真正的历史意义。在这种层面上，这些伪作也突显了真作所具有的持久吸引力。凡米格伦画作的复制品并不会需要这么昂贵的安保措施，也无法吸引观众前来参观。
“The Head of Christ” and its traveling companions are being exhibited precisely because they are authentic — authentic forgeries.
《基督之首》和与它一同巡展的作品之所以能够展出，恰恰是因为它们是真实的——是真实的伪作。