DES MOINES — Good morning from Iowa, where it is finally showtime. At 7 p.m. here on Monday, Republican and Democratic caucuses will be called to order in 1,681 precincts around the state. It’s an arcane relic of neighbor-to-neighbor politics, but also an example of democracy at its grass-roots finest. This final Our Man in Iowa dispatch answers frequently asked questions on the Iowa caucuses.
得梅因——请接受来自艾奥瓦州的问候，好戏终于开演了。周一晚上7点，民主共和两党将在全州1681个选区分别召开预选会。这是个晦涩难懂的邻里政治的遗留产物，但也是民主制度在草根层面的最佳体现。本文将带来“自己人”栏目(Our Man)最后一篇艾奥瓦选情报道，其中回答了有关该州预选会的一些常见问题。
(I will also be taking your questions on Reddit at 10 a.m. Central time. Join me there for anything you want to know about Iowa, how caucusing works, the state of the race and more.)
（我将在中部时间上午10点开始在Reddit网站上征集问题。欢迎提出任何希望了解的有关艾奥瓦州、预选会如何进行和选情等方面的问题。）
Q. Cut to the chase, how will I know the results?
问：直奔主题，我们可以从哪里知道选举结果？
The Democratic and Republican parties of Iowa are promising returns in almost-real time on their respective websites: www.iagopcaucuses.com and www.idpcaucuses.com.
答：民主共和两党均会在各自的网站www.idpcaucuses.com与www.iagopcaucuses.com上公布几近实时的统计结果。
Q. When do results come in?
问：什么时候能有最终的选举结果？
The state Republican Party says the first returns will be in around 7:30 p.m., and it promises to have results “fully reported back in just a few hours.” The Democratic results could take longer because Democrats caucus differently.
答：艾奥瓦州的共和党委员会表示首批统计将在晚上7点30分左右出炉，并承诺“在短短几小时内通报全部点票结果”。由于预选会召开方式的差异，民主党这边可能会花费更久的时间。
Q. Wait, what are the differences?
问：什么？到底有什么差异？
Republicans declare their candidate preferences by a show of hands or by writing out a secret ballot. The Democratic process is complicated: Groups of supporters for each candidate (or undecided attendees) sit or stand together in “preference groups.”
答：共和党挑选出青睐的候选人的方式是举手或不记名的书面投票。民主党的选举程序则很复杂：每名候选人的支持者（及尚未拿定主意的参会人员）坐或者站在一起，构成一个“偏好组”。
A head count of everyone in the room is conducted. If any candidate (or the undecideds) don’t have enough supporters — in most cases, 15 percent of the caucusgoers — the group is ruled “nonviable.” Its members realign with other groups, and a final count is made.
然后会场进行人头清点。假如有候选人（或还没打定主意的人）未能得到足够的支持——多数情况下，这个门槛是全体参会人员的15%——那么，该组则被认定为“无效”。其中的成员需要加入其他的小组，并进行最终的清点。
Q. What are the Democrats thinking?
问：民主党人是怎么想的？
It’s a disputatious party, what can I say. The fun comes when supporters of candidates try to persuade people in nonviable groups or undecideds to join their team. There are chants, debates about policy and electability, or maybe just the offer of a beer later on. As the state party puts it: “There is a lot of debating and moving around. It is democracy in action.”
答：我能说什么呢，民主党喜欢辩论吧。当候选人的支持者试图说服无效组的选民加入自己的队伍时，会很有意思。有呼喊口号的，有进行政策辩论的，有探讨当选可能性的，甚至可能有干脆提出事后请喝啤酒的。用艾奥瓦州民主党委员会的话说：“会有很多的辩论和人员移动。这就是活生生的民主。”
Q. Do the Republicans get to argue for their candidates?
问：共和党人也会为自己的候选人拉票吗？
Yes. Before voting, a supporter for each candidate can make a two-minute speech to all the caucusgoers. Anyone can speak for a candidate. That includes 11-year-old Allisyn Shelley, who will speak for Donald J. Trump in one Davenport precinct. Some candidates will even visit caucuses to speak for themselves — because Iowans may not have fully memorized every stump speech.
答：会。投票之前，每位候选人的一名支持者可以向出席预选会的全体成员进行两分钟的陈述。什么人都有资格做这个演讲。比如在达文波特的一个选区，11岁的艾莉森·谢利(Allisyn Shelley)将为唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)助选。有些候选人甚至会亲自出现在预选会现场为自己拉票——因为艾奥瓦人或许还没把历次竞选演讲深深地印在脑海里吧。
Q. Do you have any videos of how it works?
问：能提供关于这套选举程序的视频吗？
The parties and some campaigns have made videos to demystify a process that can be intimidating and has kept turnout abysmally low considering the number of eligible voters. See this one by the Democratic Party of Iowa, this one by Ivanka Trump on behalf of her father, and this one by members of Bernie Sanders’s Iowa field staff.
答：两党及一些候选人的竞选团队制作了视频来解释选举程序。看看艾奥瓦合格选民的总人数，可能就是这套程序让人望而却步，使得这里的投票率一直低得可怜。这是艾奥瓦的民主党委员会推出的视频，这是伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)为父亲出镜的视频，而这是伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)在本地的基层竞选员工制作的视频。
Q. Can anyone caucus?
问：任何人都可以参加预选会吗？
Only registered voters who enroll as Republicans or Democrats. Voters can register for the first time at the caucus site or switch their affiliation.
答：只有注册为共和党或民主党的成员才能参加相应的预选会。选民可以在会场当场注册，或是改换门庭。
Q. Doesn’t that slow things down?
问：这会不会影响速度？
It’s possible, if a wave of unregistered or unaffiliated supporters show up, especially for the two candidates drawing a lot of support from caucus newcomers, Mr. Trump and Mr. Sanders. Caucusgoers sign in on arrival and register at that time. Anyone not in line by 7 p.m. Central cannot participate.
答：有可能。比方说，一大波之前没注册或没打定主意属于哪个党的支持者出现在会场，尤其是那些支持特朗普和桑德斯的选民。这二位候选人在新近参加预选会的选民当中人气很高。参会人员到达会场时签到并可当场注册。中部时间晚上7点前没有排上队的人不得参会。
Q. How many people are at each caucus?
问：每个会场大约有多少人？
From as few as a dozen in some rural precincts to several hundred. John Tone, the chairman of Republican precinct 62 in Des Moines, is expecting more than 300 at his middle school caucus site, and the Democrats from precinct 62, who are also meeting at the school, expect more than 600.
答：从部分乡村选区的十来个人到大几百人的都有。共和党在得梅因第62选区的主席约翰·托恩(John Tone)预计，他所在的位于一家初中的会场将出现逾300人。第62选区的民主党人也将在同一所学校举行预选会，预计有逾600人出席。
Q. Pure democracy, one-person, one-vote, right?
问：绝对民主、一人一票，对吧？
Only for the Republicans, who report the total vote counts for each candidate. The Democrats are electing delegates to county conventions, who in turn choose delegates to a state convention.
答：只有共和党采取这种方式，公布的是每位候选人的总得票数。民主党这边选举的是参加县党代会的代表，然后这些代表再选出参加州党代会的代表。
The statewide winner on caucus night will be the candidate earning the most “state delegate equivalents,” which is reported as a percentage. That’s what you’ll see on the returns page for the Democratic Party.
预选会之夜出炉的艾奥瓦州民主党胜选者其实是赢得最多“州级代表”的候选人，而这个数字是一个百分比。在民主党公布统计结果的网站上看到的就是这个数字。
Q. With all the hullabaloo that began a full year ago, Iowa must be sending lots of delegates to the national nominating conventions in July?
问：一年前就开始聒噪，热闹了这么久，艾奥瓦州肯定会在今年7月的两党全国提名大会上派出很多代表吧？
Of course not. It’s a tiny state, in terms of population. Democrats are electing 44 out of 4,763 delegates to their convention in Philadelphia. The Republicans are choosing 30 out of 2,472 delegates to their national convention in Cleveland.
答：绝非如此。从人口来看，这个州是弹丸之地。民主党大会将在费城召开，共有4763名代表，其中44人将来自艾奥瓦。民主党大会将在克利夫兰召开，共有2472名代表，其中30人将来自这里。
You have a choice of how to interpret that: The caucuses are much ado about very little. Or, because these are the first votes cast, there is a lot at stake in terms of popular momentum, news media attention and donor love.
想怎么解读此事取决于个人：既可以说，艾奥瓦的预选会雷声大雨点小；或者也可以说，这是全美第一个投票的地方，在人气走势、新闻媒体的关注和招徕捐赠者的青睐等方面发挥了举足轻重的作用。
Feel free to spend the evening with “Antiques Roadshow.”
不用为难，今晚要是想看《鉴宝路演》(Antiques Roadshow)，就看吧！