LOS ANGELES — “Breaking Bad,” perhaps the surest bet going into the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards, met expectations on Monday night, taking home the prize for best drama for its final season. Bryan Cranston, Anna Gunn and Aaron Paul, the series’s stars, won acting honors. Julianna Margulies won best actress in a drama for “The Good Wife.”
洛杉矶——第66届黄金时段艾美奖于周一晚颁布，《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)或许是最为稳操胜券的一部剧集，它也的确不负众望，凭借最后一季获得了最佳剧情类剧集奖。该剧影星布莱恩·科兰斯顿(Bryan Cranston)、安娜·冈(Anna Gunn)和亚伦·保罗(Aaron Paul)分获各项表演奖。朱莉安娜·玛格丽丝(Julianna Margulise)凭《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)获得剧情类最佳女主角奖。
“Modern Family” on ABC was named top comedy for the fifth consecutive year, and other comedy categories were equally unsurprising. Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Jim Parsons were repeat winners, for HBO’s “Veep” and “The Big Bang Theory on CBS, respectively.
ABC台的《摩登家庭》(Modern Family)连续第五次获得喜剧类最佳剧集奖，喜剧类的其他奖项也同样不出人意料：CBS台《生活大爆炸》(The Big Band Theory)的吉姆·帕森斯(Jim Parsons)和HBO台《二当家》(Veep)的茱莉亚·路易斯-德瑞弗斯(Julia Louis-Dreyfus)分别蝉联喜剧类最佳男女主演奖。
“Fargo” on FX was named best mini-series. “The Normal Heart” on HBO, an adaptation of the Larry Kramer play about the AIDS crisis, was named best television movie.
FX台的《冰血暴》(Fargo)获得最佳迷你剧奖。HBO的《平常心》(The Normal Heart)改编自拉里·克莱默(Larry Kramer)关于艾滋危机的舞台剧，获得最佳电视电影奖。
The 66th Primetime Emmy Awards started with the host, Seth Meyers, and other presenters poking fun at the fast-changing landscape of the television world, where the biggest stars in Hollywood are taking on TV projects and new streaming services like Netflix are storming the gates.
主持人塞斯·梅耶斯(Seth Meyers)为第66届黄金时段艾美奖拉开序幕，其他登场者们纷纷就飞速发展的电视行业开着玩笑——如今好莱坞最大牌的影星们都开始接拍电视剧集，Nexflix等新晋流媒体服务开始强势登场。
The first award of the evening went to Ty Burrell for his role in ABC’s “Modern Family.” The prize was the second Emmy win for Mr. Burrell. The award for outstanding supporting actress in a comedy series went to Allison Janney for her role in “Mom” on CBS. The award is her sixth career Emmy and her second this month, having won earlier for a guest appearance on “Masters of Sex.”
泰·布利尔(Ty Burrell)凭他在ABC台《摩登家庭》中的角色获得了今晚的第一个奖项。这是布利尔第二次获得艾美奖。艾莉森·珍妮(Allison Janney)凭她在CBS《极品老妈》(Mom)中的角色获得喜剧类最佳女配角奖。这是她第六次获得艾美奖，也是她本月第二次获奖——早些时候，她刚刚因在《性爱大师》(Msters of Sex)中的客串出演而获奖。
The award for outstanding writing for a comedy series went to Louis C. K. for the “So Did the Fat Lady” episode of “Louie” on the FX network. The award was the sixth Emmy win for Louis C. K.
路易·C·K(Louis C. K.)凭FX台《路易不容易》(Louie)中的《就是那个胖女人》(So Did the Fat Lady)一集获得喜剧类最佳剧本奖。这是路易·C·K第六次获得艾美奖。
Seth Meyers, a first-time host, began the evening by talking about what many are calling a new golden age for television. He said earlier that his role model for the evening was the comedian Steve Martin and that he had recruited Tina Fey and Amy Poehler to help write jokes for the monologue. Ms. Fey and Ms. Poehler have experience, having hosted the Golden Globes for highly rated back-to-back broadcasts.
塞斯·梅耶斯是第一次主持艾美奖颁奖仪式，他在开场白上说起很多人都认为当今是电视业的又一个黄金时代。早些时候，他说自己主持艾美奖时会以喜剧演员史蒂夫·马丁(Steve Martin)为榜样，此外他还找来了蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)和埃米·波勒(Amy Poehler)帮他写单口表演时的笑话。菲和波勒曾连续两届主持金球奖颁奖仪式，备受好评，因而对此颇有心得。
“They both jumped at the chance,” he said, adding that they had responded to a text with the message: “New phone. Who dis?”
“她们抓住了机会，”梅耶斯说，还说她们回复他的短信是这样的：“刚换手机。你是谁呀？”
Held at the Nokia Theater in downtown Los Angeles, this year’s ceremony was the first time since 1976 that the Emmy Awards had been on a Monday. Some Hollywood journalists had taken to calling the scheduling Emmygeddon because of the potential for horrific traffic to snarl arrivals. In attempts to avoid gridlock, the Television Academy took a number of measures among them changing the red-carpet arrival area and serving refreshments to early arrivals. The Academy also reduced the number of limousine passes it issued. The primary reason for the Monday night broadcast was football, among other scheduling headaches.
今年的艾美奖颁奖仪式在洛杉矶市中心的诺基亚剧院举行，是自1976年以来首次在星期一举行。一些好莱坞记者说这项安排不啻为“艾美奖大混战”，因为周一赶到会场要面临严重的交通阻塞。为了避免交通堵塞，电视学会采取了各种措施，比如改变红毯区地点，为早到者提供茶点，此外还减少了豪华轿车通行证的数量。颁奖典礼移到周一是出于许多原因，主要是为了避免和橄榄球比赛的时间冲突。
2014年艾美奖获奖名单
泰·布利尔(Ty Burrell)凭《摩登家庭》(Modern Family)获得喜剧类最佳男配角奖。路易·C·K(Louis CK)凭《路易不容易》(Louis)获得喜剧类最佳剧本奖。
艾莉森·珍妮(Allison Janney)凭《极品老妈》(Mom)获得喜剧类最佳女配角奖。
盖尔·曼库索(Gail Mancuso)凭《摩登家庭》获得喜剧类最佳导演奖。
吉姆·帕森斯(Jim Parsons)凭《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)获得喜剧类最佳男主角奖。
茱莉亚·路易斯-德瑞弗斯(Julia Louis-Dreyfus)凭《二当家》(Veep)获得喜剧类最佳女主角奖。
《急速前进》(The Amazing Race)获得最佳真人秀奖。
《神探夏洛克》(Shelock)获得最佳迷你剧剧本奖。
凯西·贝茨(Kathy Bates)凭《美国恐怖故事：女巫集会》(American Horror Story: Coven)获迷你剧最佳女配角奖。
马丁·弗瑞曼(Martin Freeman)凭《神探夏洛克》获迷你剧最佳男配角奖。
本尼迪克特·康伯巴奇(Benedict Cumberbatch)凭《神探夏洛克》获迷你剧最佳男主角奖。
杰西卡·兰格(Jessica Lange)凭《美国恐怖故事》获迷你剧最佳女主角奖。
《冰血暴》(Fargo)获最佳迷你剧奖。
《平常心》(The Normal Heart)获最佳电视电影奖。
莎拉·席尔曼(Sarah Silverman)获最佳特别综艺剧本奖。
《托尼奖》(Tony Awards)获最佳综艺秀导演奖。
《科尔伯特报告》(The Colbert Report)获最佳综艺秀奖。
亚伦·保尔(Aaron Paul)凭《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)获剧情类最佳男配角奖。
凯瑞·福永(Cary Fukunaga)凭《真探》(True Detective)获剧情类最佳导演奖。
安娜·冈(Anna Gunn)凭《绝命毒师》获剧情类最佳女配角奖。
布莱恩·科兰斯顿(Bryan Cranston)凭《绝命毒师》获剧情类最佳男主角奖。
《摩登家庭》获喜剧类最佳剧集奖。
《绝命毒师》获剧情类最佳剧集奖。