IT’S not just network and cable television. It’s everything that’s good on video, as far as the Emmys are concerned.
它不只包括电视网和有线电视网的节目。艾美奖的视野包括所有的优秀视频。
That point was driven home emphatically on Thursday as the nominations for this year’s Emmy Awards were announced. The showdown for outstanding drama series spread across cable and pay television services with the list of nominees including some of the most highly praised shows in recent memory. AMC’s “Breaking Bad,” in its last season, and HBO’s “True Detective,” in its first, are expected to be strong contenders. They were joined by “Game of Thrones” on HBO, which topped the list with 19 nominations, and “House of Cards” on Netflix, with 13.
周四，艾美奖宣布今年的提名，这一点得到了着重强调。优秀电视剧的角逐席卷有线电视网和付费电视网，获得提名的包括最近一些得到盛赞的节目。AMC台的《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)最后一季和HBO台的《真探》(True Detective)第一季被认为是强有力的竞争者。其他获得提名的有HBO台的《权力的游戏》(Game of Thrones)和Netflix台的《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)，前者位列19部提名电视剧之首，后者位列第13名。
“Downton Abbey” and “Mad Men” were the other dramas nominated.
其他获得提名的剧情类电视剧有《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)和《广告狂人》(Mad Men)。
Netflix, the subscription streaming service, was far more a presence than it was last year, racking up 31 nominations, including major nominations in the top series categories for “House of Cards” and “Orange Is the New Black.” That was more nominations than some long established networks, including Fox, which had only 18. (That was the Emmy-listed number; Fox pointed out that one of its shows, “Cosmos,” received 12 nominations, but they were separated out as Fox/NatGEO, because the series ran on two networks.) On cable, A&E had exactly one nomination.
付费流媒体服务商Netflix今年的表现比去年显眼很多，获得31项提名，包括一些顶级电视剧类别的主要提名，凭借的是《纸牌屋》和《女子监狱》(Orange Is the New Black)。它获得的提名比一些老牌电视网还多，例如，福克斯(Fox)只获得了18项提名（这是艾美奖给出的数字；福克斯指出它的其中一部电视剧《穿越时空的冒险》[Cosmos]获得了12项提名，但是它被分给了两个电视台——福克斯和NatGEO，因为这部电视剧是在这两个台中播出的）。在有线电视方面，A&E只获得了一项提名。
The strong showing for Netflix was driven by 13 nominations for “House of Cards” and 12 for the newcomer “Orange Is the New Black.” Both had multiple entries in the acting categories. Other big winners included two FX mini-series, “Fargo,” which racked up the second highest number of nominations (after “Game of Thrones”), with 18, and “American Horror Story,” with 17. “Breaking Bad” had 16, as did the HBO movie “The Normal Heart.” “True Detective” had 12.
Netflix的强劲表现源于《纸牌屋》的13项提名和新剧《女子监狱》的12项提名。它们都在表演类别中获得多项提名。其他大赢家包括FX台的两部迷你剧《冰血暴》(Fargo)和《美国怪谭》(American Horror Story)，前者获得了18项提名，位列第二（仅次于《权力的游戏》），后者获得了17项提名。《绝命毒师》和HBO的电影《平常心》(The Normal Heart)都获得了16项提名。《真探》获得了12项提名。
“Saturday Night Live” also scored well, with 14 nominations. It continued to hang in with the late-night talk shows, earning a nomination for outstanding variety series. Also earning nominations in that category were the shows hosted by Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel and Stephen Colbert, who by next year will be network competitors, as well as “The Daily Show With Jon Stewart” and “Real Time With Bill Maher.”
《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)的表现也不错，获得了14项提名。它继续和深夜谈话秀节目一较高下，凭借其精彩的多变的系列获得了一项提名。那个类别还获得提名的有吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)、吉米·坎摩尔(Jimmy Kimmel)和斯蒂芬·科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)的节目，明年它们将成为电视网中的竞争者。参与角逐的还有《乔恩·斯图尔特每日秀》(The Daily Show With Jon Stewart)和《比尔·马赫实时秀》(Real Time With Bill Maher)。
The Emmys, scheduled to take place Aug. 25 at the Nokia Theater in Los Angeles, will be telecast on NBC. Seth Meyers, whose late-night talk show is on NBC, will host the ceremony.
艾美奖的颁奖典礼计划于8月25日在洛杉矶的诺基亚剧院(Nokia Theater)举行，将在NBC直播。在NBC主持深夜秀的塞思·梅耶斯(Seth Meyers)将主持典礼。
In general, broadcasters continued to struggle against the onslaught of strong entries from across the spectrum, with even CBS’s “The Good Wife,” after a widely praised season, shut out of the best drama- series category. The only broadcaster with a nominee in that super-competitive group was PBS, with “Downton Abbey.”
总的来说，公共台继续抵抗来自光谱另一端强力剧目的猛击，甚至连CBS的《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)在广受赞誉的一季之后都被挤出了最佳剧情类的角逐。在这个竞争异常激烈的类别中，唯一获得提名的公共台是PBS频道，凭借的是《唐顿庄园》。
In the comedy-series category, the broadcast networks fared slightly better, with ABC’s “Modern Family,” which has won an Emmy in each of the last four years, and CBS’s “The Big Bang Theory” earning nominations, along with “Veep,” “Louie,” “Orange Is the New Black” and “Silicon Valley.”
在喜剧类别中，公共台的表现稍好一些，ABC的《摩登家庭》(Modern Family)和CBS的《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)都获得了一些提名。《摩登家庭》在过去四年里每年都获得了一项艾美奖。其他获得提名的有《副总统》(Veep)、《路易不容易》(Louie)、《女子监狱》和《硅谷》(Silicon Valley)。
CBS led the broadcasters with 47 nominations (dwarfed by the perennial leader HBO with 99), followed by NBC with 46 and ABC with 37. PBS had 34.
公共台中的领头羊是CBS，它获得了47项提名（与常青树HBO曾经的99项提名相比有点寒酸），其后是NBC的46项提名和ABC的37项提名。PBS获得了34项提名。
In the acting categories, drama was again the stronghold of non-network shows, although Julianna Margulies of “The Good Wife,” Kerry Washington of ABC’s “Scandal,” and Michelle Dockery of “Downton Abbey” did break into the best actress list. Also in the group were the newcomer Lizzy Caplan, widely praised for her performance in Showtime’s “Masters of Sex”; Robin Wright of “House of Cards”; and the incumbent winner, Claire Danes from “Homeland,” also on Showtime.
在表演奖项中，剧情类电视剧再次成为非电视网媒体的重地，虽然《傲骨贤妻》中的朱莉安娜·玛格里斯(Julianna Margulies)、ABC的《丑闻》(Scandal)中的凯莉·华盛顿(Kerry Washington)和《唐顿庄园》中的米歇尔·道克瑞(Michelle Dockery)闯入了最佳女主角的候选名单。同在这一组的还有新人莉兹·卡普兰(Lizzy Caplan)——她在映时(Showtime)的《性爱大师》(Masters of Sex)中的表演获得了广泛的赞扬；《纸牌屋》中的罗宾·怀特(Robin Wright)；以及上届最佳女主角得主、映时的《国土安全》(Homeland)中的克莱尔·丹尼斯(Claire Danes)。
Notable omissions included Elisabeth Moss of “Mad Men,” Tatiana Maslany for “Orphan Black,” Keri Russell for FX’s “The Americans” and Vera Farmiga for A&E’s “Bates Motel.”
没有获得提名却值得注意的女主角包括《广告狂人》(Mad Men)中的伊丽莎白·莫斯(Elisabeth Moss) 、《黑色孤儿》(Orphan Black)中的塔蒂亚娜·马斯兰尼(Tatiana Maslany)、FX的《美国谍梦》(The Americans)中的凯莉·拉塞尔(Keri Russell)以及A&E的《贝茨旅馆》(Bates Motel)中的韦娜·法米加(Vera Farmiga)。
On the men’s side, it was all nonbroadcast contenders: Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson for “True Detective”; Bryan Cranston for “Breaking Bad”; last year’s winner, Jeff Daniels for HBO’s “The Newsroom”; Kevin Spacey for “House of Cards”; and one more nomination for Jon Hamm of “Mad Men,” who surprisingly has never won this award.
在男演员方面，入选者全部来自非公共台：《真探》中的马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)和伍迪·哈里森(Woody Harrelson)；《绝命毒师》中的布莱恩·克兰斯顿(Bryan Cranston)；去年的得主、HBO频道《新闻编辑室》(The Newsroom)中的杰夫·丹尼尔斯(Jeff Daniels)；《纸牌屋》中的凯文·斯佩西(Kevin Spacey)；以及《广告狂人》中的乔恩·汉姆(Jon Hamm)。这是汉姆的又一项提名，令人惊讶的是，他从未获得过该奖项。
Omissions included Michael Sheen of “Masters of Sex,” James Spader of “Blacklist” and Matthew Rhys of “The Americans.”
被忽略的有《性爱大师》中的迈克尔·辛(Michael Sheen)、《黑名单》(Blacklist)中的詹姆斯·斯派德(James Spader)以及《美国谍梦》中的马修·瑞斯(Matthew Rhys)。
Netflix scored a bit of a surprise nomination for Ricky Gervais in the lead actor category for his comedy “Derek.” He was joined in that group by regulars like Jim Parsons of “Big Bang,” Louis C.K. of “Louie,” Don Cheadle in Showtime’s “House of Lies” and Matt LeBlanc in Showtime’s “Episodes.” A newcomer was William H. Macy of Showtime’s “Shameless,” which that cable network elbowed into the comedy categories in an attempt to win some nominations.
里奇·格威斯(Ricky Gervais)凭借自己的喜剧《德里克》(Derek)获得最佳男主角提名，给Netflix频道带来了一丝惊喜。这一组的老将包括《生活大爆炸》的吉姆·帕森斯(Jim Parsons)、《路易》(Louie)中的路易斯·C·K(Louis C.K.)，映时频道的《谎言满屋》(House of Lies)中的唐·钱德尔(Don Cheadle)，以及映时频道的《剧集人生》(Episodes)中的马特·勒布朗(Matt LeBlanc)。这一组的新人是映时频道的《无耻之徒》(Shameless)中的威廉姆·H·梅西(William H. Macy)，有线电视网挤入喜剧类别，以期获得一些提名。
The category for best actress in a comedy included mostly repeat performers: Amy Poehler of “Parks and Recreation,” Melissa McCarthy of “Mike and Molly,” Edie Falco of “Nurse Jackie,” Julia Louis-Dreyfus of “Veep” and Lena Dunham of “Girls.” Again, “Orange” broke into the party, with its star Taylor Schilling.
获得喜剧类最佳女主角提名的大多是常客：《公园与游憩》(Parks and Recreation)中的艾米·波勒(Amy Poehler)、《肥肥和胖胖》(Mike and Molly)中的梅丽莎·麦卡锡(Melissa McCarthy)、《护士当家》(Nurse Jackie)中的伊迪·凡尔克(Edie Falco)、《副总统》中的朱莉娅·路易斯-德莱弗斯(Julia Louis-Dreyfus)和《都市女孩》(Girls)中的莱娜·邓纳姆(Lena Dunham)。《女子监狱》再次闯入这个类别，其主角泰勒·席林(Taylor Schilling)获得提名。
The strategizing that went into the gaming of categories was evident and in some cases paid off. For instance, “Fargo” and “True Detective” have the exact same format (close-ended series with plans for additional seasons with different casts) but both claimed a host of nominations in separate categories — mini-series versus drama series — when they could have canceled each other out, had they gone head to head.
进入不同类别的角逐的策略是很明显的，有时也很奏效。比如，《冰血暴》和《真探》有一模一样的模式（有确定的结局，也有重新选角拍续集的计划），但是两者都在迷你剧类和剧情类中获得了很多提名——因此它们正面交锋时可以相互抵消。