I’m an awards-show geek who usually spends the morning after the Emmys or Oscars nattering about who was unjustly robbed, who was unwisely dressed and whether it’s a felony in Hollywood to consume more than 300 calories a meal, because it sure looks that way.
我是一个痴迷于颁奖典礼的人。头天晚上看过艾美奖或奥斯卡颁奖典礼，第二天早晨我通常都会念叨谁被不公正地剥夺了奖项，谁的穿着不得体，以及在好莱坞一餐摄入超过300卡洛里是不是一桩重罪，因为看上去的确如此。
But that’s not my banter or my mood today, because what I and anyone else who tuned in to Hollywood’s latest self-congratulatory orgy on Sunday saw wasn’t good fun. It was bad news — a ringing, stinging confirmation that fame truly is its own reward and celebrity really does trump everything and redeem everyone.
但今天我可没这种闲情逸致，因为我和其他所有在周日收看了好莱坞最新一场沾沾自喜式狂欢的电视观众，看到的都不是多么有趣的情形。它带来了一个坏消息，干脆利落而又令人扎心地确认：有名气自有回报，名气真的胜过一切，能拯救任何人。
Object of ridicule or object of reverence: Is there a difference? Not if you’re a household name, not if you’re a proven agent of ratings and not if you’re likely to deliver more of them. Our commander in chief took that crude philosophy to heart and rode it all the way to the White House. Sean Spicer took a page from the president and then a bow on the Emmys stage.
是被群嘲的对象，还是受尊敬的对象：有区别吗？没有，只要你的名字家喻户晓，只要你是收视率的可靠保证，只要你能招致更多嘲讽或激发更多尊重。我们的最高统帅将这种粗俗的哲学牢记在心，借助它一路走到白宫。肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)借鉴了总统的做法，然后在艾美奖舞台上鞠躬致谢。
Not exactly a bow, and there are Emmys production folks and television industry figures who are telling themselves that during his fleeting appearance at the ceremony, Spicer was being slyly demeaned, not sanitized.
确切地说不是鞠躬致谢；艾美奖制作团队和电视圈的人跟自己说，斯派塞在短暂现身期间并未被洗白，而是受到了巧妙的贬损。
What bunk. The message of his presence was not only that we can all laugh at his service and sycophancy in the Trump administration, but that he’s welcome to laugh with us.
真是胡说八道。斯派塞的现身不仅表明我们所有人都可以嘲笑他在特朗普政府中的任职经历和谄媚之道，还表明我们欢迎他跟我们一起笑。
What an adventure you had, Sean! What a hoot you were! Here’s your invitation to the after-party. Of course it’s a plus-one. You’re Spicey!
多么刺激的冒险啊，肖恩！你可真能起哄！这是邀请你参加余兴活动的请柬。当然可以带个伴。谁让你是“火辣的斯派塞”(Spicey)！
For anyone who missed the show or hasn’t caught wind of the brouhaha since, Spicer came onto the stage behind the kind of podium that Melissa McCarthy used in her impersonations of him and told the Emmys host, Stephen Colbert, “This will be the largest audience to witness an Emmys, period — both in person and around the world.”
有人也许错过了这场秀，或者还没听闻它引起的一片哗然。事情是这样的：斯派塞推着梅丽莎· 麦卡锡(Melissa McCarthy)扮演他时用过的那种讲台走到台上，告诉艾美奖主持人史蒂芬‧科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)，“这将是艾美奖有史以来观众最多的一次，我把话放这了——不论是到场的观众，还是世界各地的观众。”
His words alluded, obviously, to his fictitious claim — at his very first news conference as the White House press secretary — about the crowds for Trump’s inauguration. But that claim wasn’t merely ludicrous. It was precisely and perfectly emblematic of Trump’s all-out, continuing assault on facts and on truth itself. And it signaled Spicer’s full collaboration in that war, which is arguably the most dangerous facet of Trump’s politics, with the most far-reaching, long-lasting consequences.
他的话显然是暗指他以白宫新闻秘书的身份首次出席新闻发布会时，就特朗普就职典礼的观礼人数发表的虚假言论。但这种说法不光荒唐可笑。它贴切而又完美地象征着特朗普对事实和真理本身的持续不断的全力攻击。它也表明了斯派塞对攻击的全力配合，这是特朗普政治学最危险的一面，有着最广泛持久的影响。
Reportedly, Colbert himself had the idea to include Spicer in the Emmys, and that’s especially rich, as the Brits like to say. On his late-night talk show, Colbert has flamboyantly mined his ostensible contempt for Trump and outrage over the president’s misdeeds to find a spark that was missing from the program and a viewership that had eluded it.
据报道，是科尔伯特本人想出了邀请斯派塞出席艾美奖颁奖典礼的主意；正如英国人常说的，that’s especially rich（这真是太有意思了）。在自己的深夜脱口秀中，科尔伯特会夸张地演绎他对特朗普显而易见的蔑视，以及对总统的不当行为的愤怒，以便找回节目的活力，提振下滑的收视率。
On top of which, it was Colbert, years ago, who coined the term “truthiness,” pointedly exposing — and skewering — politicians’ self-servingly cavalier relationship with reality.
此外，正是科尔伯特于若干年前造出了“感实性”（truthiness）一词，显然是在揭示——和攻击——政客为了方便自己而以漫不经心的态度对待事实的做法。
Truthiness was a pale, wan forebear of Trump’s pathology, distilled in Spicer’s inauguration boast. But at the Emmys, Colbert abetted Spicer’s image overhaul and probably upped Spicer’s speaking fees by letting him demonstrate what a self-effacing sport he could be. The moment went viral, and I suppose that’s the point. You grab the eyeballs however you can. Trump taught America that, too.
感实性乃是特朗普式病态的苍白柔弱的前身，在斯派塞关于就职典礼的吹嘘之词中得到集中展现。但在艾美奖颁奖典礼上，科尔伯特为斯派塞的形象重塑提供了助力，可能还通过让斯派塞展示其是何等的谦逊，而在实际上提高了他的出场费。斯派塞现身的一刻被广为传播，我想重点正在于此。为了吸引眼球你得不择手段。特朗普也这么教过美国人。
This is bigger than any one awards show, as many outraged observers have smartly tweeted and as I examined in a recent column about the hasty and successful gold rush by people who have earned renown or notoriety — I’m not sure those nouns are so distinct from each other anymore — as a result of their time with Trump.
正如很多愤怒的观察人士在推文中巧妙指出的那样，这关乎的不仅仅是一场颁奖礼。我在最近的一篇专栏文章中也阐述了类似的观点。那篇文章讲的是：在和特朗普共事后，拥有名望或恶名的人们——我不确定这两个词是否还有明显的区别——忙不迭地掀起淘金浪潮并大获成功。
More than ever, someone who arouses curiosity or makes you gape can monetize that as easily as someone who inspires admiration can profit from your genuine regard. Fascination comes in many shades, and at this morally addled moment in America, the bright ones and the dark ones are almost equally lucrative.
激发你的好奇心或怒气的某个人，比以往任何时候都更能轻而易举地从中取利，就像令你敬重的某个人可以借助你真正的敬仰之情获得好处一样。魅力有各种不同的层次，在美国礼崩乐坏的这一刻，明亮的魅力和暗黑的魅力几乎同样吸引人。
So Spicer and Anthony Scaramucci and Corey Lewandowski are all graduating to greater recognition and riches, never mind that they willingly promoted, ignored or sugarcoated actions and pronouncements by Trump that went well beyond the established norms of partisan politics.
因此，斯派塞、安东尼·斯卡拉穆奇(Anthony Scaramucci)和考利·莱万多夫斯基(Corey Lewandowski)全都在获得更高认可和更多财富，尽管他们曾自觉自愿地助推、忽略或美化特朗普的那些远远超出党派政治既定规则之外的言行。
Spicer and Lewandowski will be fellows at Harvard, never mind their volitional submission to someone whose lack of character, grace and basic maturity was just affirmed anew by his retweet of a video of him hitting a golf ball into Hillary Clinton and knocking her over.
斯派塞和莱万多夫斯基将在哈佛大学成为同事，尽管他们曾欣然听命于一个缺乏自我约束、优雅和基本的成熟度的人——他刚刚转发一则自己挥舞高尔夫球杆，用小球击倒希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的恶搞视频，再次证明了他是什么样的人。
By teaming with Trump, they stood at the apex of the government, in an intense spotlight. By surviving him, they’re reaping the same dividends accorded the former aides of far nobler politicians. There’s no discernment, not at Harvard and not in the entertainment world, where self-conscious liberalism and promulgations of virtue routinely take a back seat to any story line, casting decision or gag that’s guaranteed to seize attention.
通过加入特朗普团队，他们曾站在这届政府的最高处，受万众瞩目。通过在特朗普卸任前离开，他们正获取与那些给远比特朗普高尚的政客当过助手的人相同的红利。其中没有任何差别，不论是在哈佛，还是在娱乐界，自认为的自由主义和对美德的推崇，通常都要退居任何一种能确保吸引眼球的叙事方式、用人决定和恶作剧之后。
Both Harvard and Hollywood are probably trying to shed the tag of elitism, and Harvard is no doubt reasoning that to close itself off from this president’s enablers is to forfeit an opportunity to understand why so many Americans voted from Trump.
哈佛和好莱坞也许都在努力甩掉精英主义的标签，哈佛的理由无疑是觉得，若想认清为什么这么多美国人投票给特朗普，就不应该将成就当今总统的人拒之门外。
But there are other, better ways to make that gesture and explore that phenomenon, ways that don’t play down and pretty up the ugliness of Trump’s ascent, ways that don’t bestow rewards on operatives who stomached stuff and peddled wares that no responsible patriot, regardless of his or her political leanings, should.
但是要想摆出这种姿态，探究这一现象，可以选择其他更好的方式，不一定要去淡化和粉饰特朗普崛起的丑陋，不一定要变成给这些鹰犬的恩惠，这些人的底线之低，兜售的东西之恶劣，是任何一个有责任感的爱国者——无论他或她的政治倾向——都无法接受的。
The embrace of Trump’s alumni says that finagling proximity to power, getting your face on TV and having your name trend on Twitter are accomplishments in and of themselves and will always pay off. Sure, some catcalls will come your way. But that’s nothing compared with a cameo at the Emmys.
接纳特朗普的嫡系人物，意味着攀附权贵、让自己的脸出现在电视上、让自己的名字成为Twitter热词本身就是一种成就，一定会有好处。嘘声当然是会有一些。但跟在艾美奖上客串演出的机会怎么比。