The 66th Primetime Emmy Awards was a win for broadcast and cable television, which earned numerous awards as the digital gate-crasher Netflix was nearly shut out.
洛杉矶——第66届黄金时段艾美奖是无线台和有线台的胜利，它们获得了诸多奖项，而刚刚入行的数码流媒体Netflix几乎被拒之门外。
AMC’s “Breaking Bad” scored big on Monday night, winning a total of five awards, including its second consecutive prize for outstanding drama series. The crime drama, about a high school teacher who receives a diagnosis of lung cancer and starts selling crystal meth with a former student, concluded its final season.
AMC台的《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)在周一晚上大获成功，共获得五项大奖，包括蝉联最佳剧情类剧集奖。这部犯罪类电视剧讲述了一个患上肺癌的中学老师和自己之前的学生一道贩卖冰毒的故事，最终季目前已经结束。
Bryan Cranston, who starred in the series as the teacher, Walter White, won the award for best lead actor in a drama series, his fifth Emmy win. The award for outstanding supporting actor in a drama series went to Aaron Paul for his role as the former student. Anna Gunn, who played Walter’s wife, Skyler, won the award for outstanding supporting actress.
布莱恩·克兰斯顿(Bryan Cranston)饰演剧中的老师沃尔特·怀特(Walter White)，他获得了剧情类最佳男主角奖，这也是他第五次获得艾美奖。饰演前学生的亚伦·保罗(Aaron Paul)获得剧情类最佳男配角奖。饰演沃尔特之妻斯盖勒(Skyler)的安娜·冈(Anna Gunn)获得剧情类最佳女配角奖。
In his acceptance speech for the award, Vince Gilligan, the show’s creator, said it was “a wonderful time to be working in television.” AMC has won six of the last seven Emmy Awards for best drama series, a first for any network.
致领奖词时，该剧主创文斯·吉里根(Vince Gilligan)说现在是“电视行业的好时代”。AMC台最后获得了最佳剧情剧集类别七个奖项中的六项，这是首次有电视台获得如此大的殊荣。
Charlie Collier, president of AMC, said: “If anyone deserves Emmy bookends, it’s Vince Gilligan. He’s family, and he taught us all to never underestimate chemistry.”
AMC台台长查理·科利尔(Charlie Collier)说：“如果有人配得上用艾美奖当书挡，那就是文思·吉里根。他就像是家人，教会大家永远不要低估人际感情的作用。”
The Emmy Award for best comedy series went to the ABC sitcom “Modern Family.” The series tied “Frasier” for a record five consecutive wins. Ty Burrell, who stars as the show’s grumpy patriarch, won the Emmy for outstanding supporting actor in a comedy series.
最佳喜剧类剧集奖由ABC台的情景喜剧《摩登家庭》(Modern Family)获得，它追平了《欢乐一家亲》(Frasier)连续五次获奖的纪录。泰·布利尔(Ty Burrell)饰演剧中脾气暴躁的一家之长，获得喜剧类最佳男配角奖。
Julianna Margulies won the award for best actress in a drama series for her role in the CBS legal drama “The Good Wife,” about a woman dealing with the aftermath of her husband’s sex and corruption scandal.
朱莉安娜·玛格丽丝(Julianna Margulies)凭着在CBS台司法剧《傲骨贤妻》(The Good Wife)中的表现获得剧情类最佳女主角奖，该剧讲述了一个女人应对丈夫的出轨与腐败丑闻的故事。
The awards represented a win for traditional television, with Netflix being shut out of the prime-time awards for its political drama “House of Cards” and its prison comedy, “Orange Is the New Black.” (Netflix did pick up seven wins in an earlier Creative Arts Emmy Awards program.)
本届艾美奖成了传统电视台的胜利，Netflix的政治情节剧《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)未能获奖，只凭监狱题材喜剧《女子监狱》(Orange Is the New Black)获得一个奖项（Netflix在不久前颁发的创意艾美奖上倒是获得了七个奖项）。
Despite the broader upheaval across the television world, several award winners on Monday night had taken home the award in years past.
尽管整个电视行业都出现了巨大的变化，周一晚上的很多获奖者依然是去年的艾美奖得主。
Jim Parsons, of CBS’s “The Big Bang Theory,” won the award for lead actor in a comedy series for his role as a scientist with minimal social skills in the most-watched comedy on television. The award was his fourth Emmy win. It comes weeks after Mr. Parsons, along with two other stars of “The Big Bang Theory,” agreed to new contracts worth $1 million per episode per actor.
CBS台《生活大爆炸》(The Big Bang Theory)的主演吉姆·帕森斯(Jim Parsons)获得喜剧类最佳男主演奖，他在这部年度最高收视率的喜剧中饰演一个社交能力低下的科学家角色，这是他第四次获得艾美奖。几周前，他和《生活大爆炸》中的另外两个明星一起获得了每集片酬100万美元的新合约。
The award for lead actress in a comedy series went to Julia Louis-Dreyfus for her performance as a fictional vice president in HBO’s “Veep.”
喜剧类最佳女主演由茱莉亚·路易斯-德瑞弗斯(Julia Louis-Dreyfus)获得，她在HBO的《二当家》(Veep)中饰演一个虚构的副总统。
The award was the third consecutive Emmy win for Ms. Dreyfus and her fifth Emmy win ever. On her way to the stage to accept the award, Mr. Cranston gave her an 11-second-long kiss. (While presenting an award together, Ms. Louis-Dreyfus had pretended not to remember his guest appearance on the long-running sitcom “Seinfeld,” when their two characters dated.)
这是德瑞弗斯连续第三次获得艾美奖，也是她的第五个艾美奖。上台领奖时，克兰斯顿与她接吻长达11秒钟。两人一起颁发一个奖项时，路易斯-德瑞弗斯假装记不起克兰斯顿在长寿情景喜剧《宋飞传》(Seinfeld)中客串亮相的事，在那一集里，他俩饰演的角色约会了。
Seth Meyers, a first-time host, began the evening by talking about what many are calling a new golden age for television.
主持人塞斯·梅耶斯(Seth Meyers)是第一次主持艾美奖颁奖仪式，他在开场白中说起很多人都认为当今是电视业的又一个黄金时代。
He said earlier that his role model for the evening was the comedian Steve Martin and that he had recruited Tina Fey and Amy Poehler to help write jokes for the monologue. Ms. Fey and Ms. Poehler have experience in the area, having hosted the Golden Globes on highly rated back-to-back broadcasts.
早些时候，他说自己主持艾美奖时会以喜剧演员史蒂夫·马丁(Steve Martin)为榜样，此外他还找来了蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)和埃米·波勒(Amy Poehler)帮他写单口表演时的笑话。菲和波勒曾连续两届主持金球奖颁奖仪式，备受好评，因而对此颇有心得。
“They both jumped at the chance,” he said, adding that they had responded to a text with the message: “New phone. Who dis?”
“她们抓住了机会，”梅耶斯说，还说她们回复他的短信是这样的：“刚换手机。你是谁呀？”
Held at the Nokia Theater in downtown Los Angeles, this year’s ceremony was the first time since 1976 that the Emmy Awards had been on a Monday.
今年的艾美奖颁奖仪式在洛杉矶市中心的诺基亚剧院举行，是自1976年以来首次在星期一举行。
Some Hollywood journalists had taken to calling the scheduling Emmygeddon because of the potential for horrific traffic to snarl arrivals.
一些好莱坞记者说这项安排不啻为“艾美奖大混战”，因为周一赶到会场要面临严重的交通阻塞。
In attempts to avoid gridlock, the Television Academy took a number of measures, among them changing the red-carpet arrival area and serving refreshments to early arrivals. The Academy also reduced the number of limousine passes it issued.
为了避免交通堵塞，电视学会采取了各种措施，比如改变红毯区地点，为早到者提供茶点，此外还减少了豪华轿车通行证的数量。
The primary reason for the Monday night broadcast was football, among other scheduling headaches.
颁奖典礼移到周一是出于许多原因，主要是为了避免和橄榄球比赛的时间冲突。
The Emmy Awards ceremony has gained popularity in recent years. About 17.8 million viewers tuned into the broadcast last year, when Neil Patrick Harris hosted. That was up 34 percent from 2012 and the highest since 2005, according to Nielsen.
艾美奖颁奖礼是近年来才开始受欢迎的。去年的颁奖礼由尼尔·帕特里克·哈里斯(Neil Patrick Harris)主持，有1780万名观众收看。根据尼尔森公司的统计，该届颁奖礼比2012年的收视率增长了34%，是自2005年以来最高的。
The three-hour show set the stage on Monday for a number of battles. Broadcasters tried to defend their turf against being completely shut out of the top series categories. HBO, the perennial leader, with 99 nominations this year, fought to hold on to its claim of winning more Emmys than any broadcast network. And the streaming service Netflix posed a growing threat to the industry establishment with its 31 nominations.
周一的颁奖礼长达三小时，其中涉及不少较量。无线台试图保卫自己的势力范围，在顶尖连续剧中占有一席之地。HBO台是长盛不衰的领跑者，今年共获得99项提名，它试图比有线台拿到更多奖项。而流媒体服务公司Netflix获得31项提名，成为电视行业中新生的威胁力量。
The late-night wars also took center stage. Mr. Meyers, known for his longtime “Weekend Update” segment on “Saturday Night Live,” took over as host on NBC’s “Late Night” in February after Jimmy Fallon left to host “The Tonight Show.”
深夜秀的战火也占据了核心舞台。梅耶斯以长期主持《周六夜现场》(Saturday Night Live)中的《周末更新》(Weekend Update)环节闻名，今年2月吉米·法伦(Jimmy Fallon)转去主持《今夜秀》(The Tonight Show)，于是梅耶斯接替他主持NBC台的《深夜》(Late Night)。
Mr. Meyers called on a parade of other late-night hosts to present during the ceremony, including Mr. Fallon; Jimmy Kimmel, host of ABC’s “Jimmy Kimmel Live”; and Stephen Colbert, who will succeed David Letterman as host of CBS’s “The Late Show” in 2015. His Comedy Central show, “The Colbert Report,” won the award for outstanding variety series.
颁奖礼上，梅耶斯找来了许多深夜秀节目主持人登场，包括法伦、ABC台《吉米现场秀》(Jimmy Kimmel Live)的主持人吉米·基摩(Jimmy Kimmel)，以及即将于2015年接替大卫·莱特曼(David Letterman)主持CBS台《深夜秀》(The Late Show)的史蒂芬·科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)。科尔伯特在喜剧中心台(Comedy Central)的喜剧秀《科尔伯特报告》(The Colbert Report)获得了综艺类最佳节目奖。
Though the evening’s focus was on comedy, the ceremony also took on a more somber note. Billy Crystal paid tribute during the show’s in memoriam segment to Robin Williams, the Oscar- and Emmy-winning actor and comedian, who died this month.
尽管当晚众人瞩目的焦点是喜剧，颁奖礼上也出现了略微沉重的调子。比利·克里斯托(Billy Crystal)在颁奖礼的纪念环节上向本月去世的罗宾·威廉姆斯(Robin Williams)致敬，这位演员兼喜剧大师生前曾获得奥斯卡奖与艾美奖。
“As genius as he was onstage, he was the greatest friend you could ever imagine,” Mr. Crystal said.
“他在舞台上是个天才，在舞台下则是你能想像到的最好的朋友，”克里斯托说。
“It is very hard to talk about him in the past because he was so present in all of our lives. For almost 40 years, he was the brightest star in the comedy galaxy.”
“在过去，想谈论他是很困难的，因为他和我们的生活如此密切。在过去40年中，他都是喜剧界最闪亮的明星。
Monday’s awards showed how the lines between television and film had been blurring, especially as Hollywood stars increasingly took on television projects.
周一的颁奖礼表明电视和电影之间的界限正在变得模糊，特别是许多好莱坞影星都开始接拍电视剧集。
Matthew McConaughey, who won an Academy Award for best actor this year (for “Dallas Buyers Club”), was nominated for his performance in HBO’s “True Detective.”
马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)凭借《达拉斯买家俱乐部》(Dallas Buyers Club)获得今年的奥斯卡奖最佳男主角奖，本次也因在HBO《真探》(True Detective)中的表演而获得艾美奖提名。
The Oscar winner Julia Roberts was also nominated, for her role as a pioneering doctor in HBO’s television movie “The Normal Heart,” about the AIDS crisis. (Neither Mr. McConaughey nor Ms. Roberts won.
奥斯卡奖得主茱莉亚·罗伯茨(Julia Roberts)亦因在HBO的电视电影《平常心》(The Normal Heart)中饰演一位具有开拓性的医生而获得提名，该剧讲述了艾滋危机的故事。麦康纳和罗伯茨都未能获奖。
Taking home the prize for Ms. Roberts’s category was Kathy Bates for FX’s “American Horror Story.” “The Normal Heart,” based on Larry Kramer’s award-winning play, was named best television movie.
在罗伯茨参赛的类别中，获奖的是凯西·贝茨(Kathy Bates)，她因在FX台的《美国恐怖故事》(American Horror Story)中的表现而获奖。《平常心》是根据拉里·克拉默(Larry Kramer)的获奖话剧改编，最终获得最佳电视电影奖。
Mr. McConaughey was the butt of several jokes on Monday night.
麦康纳则成了周一晚上若干玩笑的取笑对象。
Mr. Kimmel poked fun at him, saying he probably didn’t even own a television.
基摩拿他开玩笑，说他可能连电视都没有。
“That is not a television face. That is a movie star face,” he said, telling the audience to look instead at Ricky Gervais, who was nominated for best actor in a comedy series for his Netflix show “Derek.” “That is not even really a television face,” Mr. Kimmel said. “That is a Netflix face.”
“那不是一张电视脸，那是一张电影明星的脸，”然后他让观众看看瑞奇·热维斯(Ricky Gervais)的脸，热维斯因Netflix的喜剧《德里克》(Derek)而获得最佳喜剧类男主演提名。基摩说：“这才是真正的电视脸，这是一张Netflix的脸。”