A little black dress may be the easiest answer to the burning question of what to wear once holiday party season rolls around, but with so many festive options to choose from in stores, it would seem a shame to celebrate in basic black. In fact, you may not want to wear a dress at all; party ready pants were a favorite on the runways and will set you apart in a see of black cocktail frocks. Here are a few looks to emulate when celebrating this season:
在节假日派对季来临之际，关于穿什么这样一个令人焦虑的问题，最简单的答案可能就是一条小黑裙。但是，既然商店里有那么多的节日盛装可以选择，只穿一件基本款的黑裙子去参加庆典，就显得太局促了。实际上，你可能根本就不想穿裙子；适合派对穿着的长裤在时装秀上大受欢迎，会让你在一片黑色宴会连衣裙中脱颖而出。在本季的节日庆典中，有如下几种可以仿效的穿着搭配：
Must Have Metallic: 
一定要有金属元素: 
If subtle is the look you are going for, this one is not for you. But if you do opt for a high shine metallic dress, at least you’ll save time by not having to pick out jewelry.
如果你要的是低调风格，那这项建议并不适合你；但如果你的确适合那种有金属质感的闪亮服饰，至少，你不用再花时间挑选珠宝了。
Suit Up: 
套装: 
Because of the ‘70s theme that was integral to so many designers’ collections this year, there will be no shortage of leisure suit looks in stores this holiday season. Best of all, a brightly colored jacket or trouser will look great separately when paired with a crisp white blouse after the festivities have come to an end.
由于“70年代”主题在许多设计师今年的作品系列中都是必不可少的元素，所以在这个节日季，商店里肯定少不了休闲套装的身影。而在假日结束之后，用那样一件鲜艳的夹克衫或长裤单独搭配一件轻薄的白衬衫，也将获得很棒的效果。
An Updated Classic: 
翻新经典: 
Sequins at New Years may seem cliché, but with so many updated options to choose from, the look will be hard to resist this season. Sexy dresses sparkled down the runways of Louis Vuitton, Jason Wu, Tom Ford and Saint Laurent, so keep an eye out for similar options in stores.
在新年期间穿亮片服饰可能看起来有点老套，但既然有那么多时新的款式可供选择，这一风格在本季仍将令人难以抗拒。在路易·威登、吴季刚(Jason Wu)、汤姆·福德(Tom Ford)与圣罗兰(Saint Laurent)的时装秀上，有许多性感的礼服都闪闪发光，所以多多留意一下商店里的类似选择吧。
Festive Florals: 
节日印花: 
Floral patterns, particularly in bold, bright reds are a great option for looking feminine at any gathering this winter. They’ll also transition perfectly in to the spring when actual flowers are blooming. This is another trend that will last you for years to come by taking you from Christmas party to garden party again and again.
这个冬季，不管是在哪种聚会场合，身穿印花图案——尤其是那种鲜艳大胆的红色印花，都是看来很有女人味的最佳选择。而且，这种带有印花图案的款式在春季到来、真正的鲜花绽放之时，也是完美的过渡。这是又一轮将在今后数年里持续热度的潮流，让你从圣诞派对穿到花园派对，重复演绎，总不过时。