The most wonderful time of the year can be more stressful than festive if you’re fretting about what to wear (and perhaps a looming credit-card bill). But you may not need to look beyond your closet. There must be a black dress, white dress, pantsuit or sequined sheath in there somewhere. Then give it the fun it deserves with unexpected, eye-catching accessories. Any one of these will do the statement-making trick.
一年中最美妙的光景就要到了，不过，如果你因为要穿什么（或许还有即将到来的信用卡账单）而抓狂，压力就会毁掉节日的喜悦。或许你其实只需要在自己的衣橱里翻找即可。总能在哪里冒出一件黑裙、白裙、衣裤套装或亮片外套吧？然后配上出人意料、引人注目的精巧配饰，制造些应有的乐趣出来。以下任何一件都能巧妙而鲜明地展现你的风格。
Think of Them As Tree Toppers For Your Hair
头发上的圣诞装饰
The holidays are really the only time you can get away with hair accessories. If the look you’re going for is discreet, opt for a simple comb, like this one from Pluie, which you can wear with your hair down or up in a loose, messy chignon. For all-out razzle-dazzle, go with a headband dripping with crystals.
节日期间的确是唯一可以戴发饰的时节。如果你想走素雅风，就选一款简洁的发卡，比如Pluie的这款，可以用在蓬松随意的发髻上下任何部位。如果想要彻底的华丽耀眼范儿，就戴上缀满水晶的发箍。
Keeping Stylishness in Reach
触手可及的时尚
Edie Parker really nails the evening clutch. Brett Heyman, who designs the label, draws inspiration for her hand-poured acrylic creations from clutches carried by modish partygoers in the 1950s. This creamy pearlescent one, new this season, is ever-so-chic and just a bit sexy.
Edie Parker牌的晚装手包真是棒极了。这个品牌的设计师布雷特·海曼(Brett Heyman)从上世纪50年代的时髦派对女郎那里汲取灵感，创造出手工塑形亚克力手包。下面这只奶油色珍珠光泽的手包是当季新款，非常雅致，同时又带有一丝性感。
A Guided Missile for Mistletoe
槲寄生下的诱人双唇
Red lips, the quickest party fix, are nothing short of essential for the holidays. This season, try Showstopper, a new holiday shade of gel lipstick from Marc Jacobs. Fully saturated with a shine finish, it lives up to the name.
烈焰红唇是派对救急的杀手锏，向来是节日必备。本季应当尝试一下Marc Jacobs为节日季推出的新色号Showstopper啫喱唇膏。颜色极其饱满、带有闪耀的光泽，恰如其名。
Bubbly Baubles, Upside Down
欢快的球形耳钉，反过来戴
These double bubble Dior earrings, which were a huge hit earlier this year when they were introduced as pearls (the larger bead worn behind the ear), are available now in pretty colors. If you have multiple piercings, add a sparkly stud for a bigger yet still subtle pop of holiday cheer.
今年早些时候，Dior推出了双珍珠耳钉（大珠戴在耳后），大受欢迎。靓丽的彩色版本如今也问世了。如果你有多个耳洞，不妨增添一颗亮闪闪的耳钉，追求一种更大却仍显低调的节日欢乐气氛。
With Heels Held High
高高的鞋跟
We’re kind of obsessed with these Gianvito Rossi pumps. Suede with satin trim, they’re like a tuxedo in a shoe. Wear with black pants and a sweater, dresses short and long, a pencil skirt. We don’t need to remind you that when it comes to dressing up, shoes make the look.
我们对Gianvito Rossi高跟鞋几乎都着迷了。缎面镶边的麂皮材质，宛如鞋履中的晚礼服。它可以用来搭配黑色长裤加针织衫、长短各异的裙装，以及铅笔裙。不用提醒你也知道，打扮起来，鞋子可以决定整体的成败。
Stretching the Holiday Sparkle
富有弹性的节日亮色
These Fogal tights, embellished with Swarovski crystals, will make an outfit party-ready in an instant. Match with an L.B.D. or, for a rock ‘n’ roll look, a leather skirt, T-shirt and fur chubby. They’re a little spendy, but a veritable bargain compared with the beautiful Saint Laurent crystal-bedecked mesh ones that go for an awe-inspiring $1,290.
饰有Swarovski水晶的Fogal紧身裤袜，立刻让普通衣裳变身派对装。可以搭配小黑裙，如果想要摇滚范儿，也可配上皮裙、T恤和皮草小外套。这种裤袜有点小贵，不过比起华丽丽的Saint Laurent水晶网眼裤袜来说，还真是划算呀。后者的价格可是令人惊叹的1290美元（约合7860元人民币）！