I don’t need a calendar to know that a new year has begun. I can tell by the deluge of new diet books that arrive in the office mail — more than two dozen since mid-December. On a whim, I weighed them all: over 25 pounds of mostly bad advice, about as much as many readers hope to lose before they have to shed the concealing garb of winter.
不用看日历，我就知道新年已经到来了。我是从寄往办公室的各种新节食书来判断这一点的——自从12月中旬以来，我已经收到了快30本书。一时兴起，我把它们摞在一起称了称：超过了25磅，恐怕跟很多读者希望在脱掉冬装的掩饰前减去的体重差不多重了，而且其中绝大多数都是烂点子。
Choices include a low-carb plan that promises a loss of “up to 15 pounds in two weeks” in “The New Atkins Made Easy,” or the Paleo diet in “Cavewomen Don’t Get Fat.” One Dr. Mike Moreno recommends occasional fasting “to power boost your weight loss” in “The 17 Day Diet Breakthrough Edition.”
我面对的选择林林总总，包括在《简便易行的新阿特金斯法》中承诺让人“两周内最多减15磅”的低碳水化合物食谱，或者是《穴居女不发胖》中的旧石器时代饮食法。一位迈克·莫里诺(Mike Moreno)博士在《17天节食石破天惊版》中建议说，偶尔暴食“能为你的减重提供刺激。”
Perhaps you’re more interested in unearthing the secrets of the world’s leanest people in “Burn the Fat, Feed the Muscle,” or learning to identify and curb emotional eating as described in “Weight Loss for People Who Feel Too Much” and “Overcoming Binge Eating for Dummies.” How about activating “your body’s ability to burn fat and lose weight fast” via “The Blood Sugar Solution 10-Day Detox Diet”?
也许你会对《燃烧脂肪，喂饱肌肉》中揭露的世界上最苗条的人的秘密更感兴趣，要么，可以翻开《心情沉重的人如何减肥》和《攻克暴食症的傻瓜法则》，了解和对抗情绪性暴食。还有，你是否能通过《10天排毒饮食之血糖解决方案》来激活《燃脂并快速减肥的身体潜能》？
It goes on and on.
我还可以继续列举下去。
I know about the new year, too, from comments in the Y locker room: The holiday splurges are over, and the day of reckoning has arrived. Overheard on Jan. 1: “I’m going to work out every day. I’ve got to get rid of these pounds.”
从我在YMCA更衣室里听来的对话，我也可以知道新的一年已经到来：假期狂欢已经结束，是时候进行清算了。我在1月1日总是听人这么说：“今年我每天都要来锻炼。我要减掉这些体重。”
But neither the plethora of diet books nor annual resolutions are good predictors of permanent weight loss. First, if any of the scores of diet plans published in recent years had resulted in lasting weight loss for the growing legions of hopefuls, there would have been no need for yet another batch, including the ones that inevitably will arrive next December.
但是，无论是泛滥的节食书还是每年发起的宏心壮志，都无法准确预测你是否能减轻体重并保持不反弹。首先，如果近年来如洪水般涌来的饮食计划书里，真能有一本书让做着减肥梦、且人数日益增多的人们产生持久的减重效果，那么新的减肥书，包括在来年12月不可避免地飞抵我的办公室的这批书，也就没有存在的必要了。
Second, as one middle-aged Y member, who has maintained a 20-pound weight loss for several years, responded to the locker room workout pledge: “Exercise by itself won’t do it. To lose weight, you have to eat less.”
第二，正如YMCA俱乐部一位中年会员对更衣室中发出的健身誓言做出的回应：“光靠锻炼是不行的。要想减重，你还应该吃少点。”说话的这位几年前减了20磅体重，并且维持至今。
She learned that, she said, at Weight Watchers after nearly wearing out her body by trying to lose weight through exercise alone. Not only does she now eat less, she also eats differently, having replaced many foods and snacks high in sugar and refined starches with more nutritious fare.
据她说，她曾经为了减重一个劲地健身，结果把自己给累得不行，是在慧俪轻体(Weight Watchers)的帮助下才认识到了这一点。现在她不仅吃得少了，而且饮食的种类也跟以往大不相同，她不再吃很多含高糖和精制淀粉的食物和零食，改吃更有营养的食物。
Another Weight Watchers success, a friend in his late 70s who shed 25 pounds, eats the same foods he always did but now eats less of them. He learned to recognize satiety — a feeling that he’s had enough — and to rely on that instead of a feeling of being stuffed to signal the end of his meals.
另一位在慧俪轻体取得成功的人，是我的一个朋友，他快80岁了，减了25磅，他吃的食物跟以往没有变化，但份量减少了。他学会了辨认满足感——知道自己已经吃够了——而不再跟以往那样，直到吃撑了才离开饭桌。
Clearly, there is no one pathway to permanent weight loss that works for everyone. The latest guidelines for physicians, who are repeatedly exhorted to help overweight and obese patients lose pounds and keep them off, emphasize that a reduced-calorie diet should be based on individual dietary preferences and combined with “comprehensive lifestyle interventions” that would best include participation in a professionally led program for six months or longer.
很明显，并没有一种持久减重的方法可以对所有人都适用。各类医师组织曾反复劝诫医生要帮助超重和肥胖的病人减肥并维持下去，现在这些组织提出的最新指南强调，低热量饮食应当建立在个体化的饮食特征基础之上，同时要结合“全方位的生活方式干预”，其中一种最佳干预手段是参加由专业人士主持的减肥项目，而且时间要达到半年或更久。
Radical, abrupt dietary changes rarely stick. People soon tire of the restrictions and revert to their old dietary habits. Habits are not acquired overnight, and you should not expect to inculcate new ones overnight, either.
激进、突兀的饮食改变通常是难以为继的。人们很快就会厌烦那些条条框框，重新回归到原有的饮食习惯上去。习惯不会在一夜间养成，所以你也不能指望向病人灌输一夜间改变的道理。
John P. Foreyt, director of the Behavioral Medicine Research Center at Baylor College of Medicine, advises would-be dieters to first become aware of their bad eating and exercise habits, and then to figure out ways to slowly change them into healthier new ones.
贝勒医学院(Baylor College of Medicine)行为医学研究中心主任约翰·佛瑞耶(John P. Foreyt)向那些准备开始节食的人建议说，首先他们应认识到自己不佳的饮食与锻炼习惯，接着寻找办法，慢慢向更健康的新习惯靠拢。
Small changes can end up making a big difference. One is to avoid skipping meals. Eat a nutritious breakfast every day and a wholesome snack or meal every few hours. I snack on nuts midmorning and have a digestive biscuit (70 calories) with café con leche midafternoon. The idea is to avoid becoming ravenous and losing control over your intake at the next meal.
细微的改变最终可以带来巨大的变化。其中一点是要避免跳过一餐不吃。每天早上吃一顿有营养的早餐，每隔几小时则要吃些有益健康的点心或正餐。我在早上10点左右会吃一点坚果，下午3点左右则会喝杯咖啡欧蕾(café con leche)，配上一块消化饼干（70大卡）。这样做的目的是避免让自己饥肠辘辘，在好不容易吃到饭时失去自制力。
Eat slowly — it takes 20 minutes for your brain to register satiety — and on smaller plates filled with one-fifth to one-third less food than usual. Fill most of the plate with foods like vegetables and salads that are rich in nutrients rather than calories.
细嚼慢咽——你的大脑需要20分钟才会意识到满足感——此外盘子上放的食物要比平时少1/5到1/3。盘子上主要盛放像蔬菜和沙拉这一类富含营养而又低热量的食物。
Choose nutrient-dense carbohydrates like beans and whole grains over refined ones. If, however, you think a meal is not a meal without potatoes, rice, bread or (heaven forfend) dessert, by all means include them — but in controlled amounts.
用豆子和全谷物这类高营养的碳水化合物来取代精制淀粉。不过，如果你觉得一顿饭离开了土豆、白米饭、面包或者（老天啊）甜品就不算是一顿正正经经的饭，当然可以继续吃——只是份量要控制着点。
Drink water or a calorie-free beverage with your meals. If you drink alcohol, limit yourself to one drink a day.
两餐间要喝水或者不含热量的饮料。如果你喝酒，每天的量要控制在一杯内。
I crave something sweet after a meal, and fruit doesn’t always cut it. My dessert favorites include a graham cracker (65 calories in two squares) and two dark chocolate Bahlsen Afrika biscuits (45 calories).
吃完一餐饭后，我渴望吃点甜的东西，而吃水果也往往不能把这种欲望给按捺下来。我最喜欢的甜食是全麦饼干（两块65大卡）和两片Bahlsen Afrika牌子的黑巧克力饼干（45大卡）。
If, like me, you have an oral fixation, try chewing sugar-free gum. Or eat a fruit like an apricot or prunes with pits, then suck on the pits for the next hour or so.
如果你跟我一样，嘴巴总是闲不住，可以试试嚼无糖口香糖。或者吃像杏子或西梅这种有核的水果，吃完果肉后在接下来的一个钟头慢慢吮着果核。
Make physical exercise a daily activity. Decide each day what to do rather than whether to do it. The 4,200 members of the National Weight Control Registry (members have lost an average of 67 pounds and kept them off for six years) typically exercise for 60 to 90 minutes a day, often broken up into several smaller sessions; walking is their most popular activity.
让锻炼成为每天的日常活动。确定每天做什么项目的运动，而非是否要运动。在美国全国体重控制登记处(National Weight Control Registry)注册的4200名成员（这些成员平均每人减去了67磅体重，而且已经将减重成果保持了六年以上）通常每天会运动60-90分钟，这些运动往往是分成了几个小项；而走路是他们最喜欢的运动方式。
Registry leaders report that those who have successfully maintained their weight loss typically eat a diet low in fat (25 percent of daily calories) and high in carbohydrates, with 56 percent of their calories from carbs like whole grains, beans and vegetables.
登记处的牵头人介绍说，那些成功保持体重不反弹的人所吃的食物，通常含脂肪较低（占日均摄入热量的25%），含碳水化合物较高，摄入热量的56%来自像全谷物、豆类和蔬菜这类碳水化合物。
Perhaps most telling is that registry members weigh themselves regularly. Many (like me) get on a scale every day. A weekly weigh-in, as recommended by Weight Watchers, is probably best while losing weight. But to maintain weight, a daily check can provide an early warning to cut back a little when you gain a pound or two. Five extra pounds that make pants too tight are a lot harder to shed.
最有效的办法，也许是这些成员定期称体重。很多人（比如我）天天都会称重。慧俪轻体推荐每周称一次，这也许对正在减肥的人更好。但为了保持体重，每天站到秤上量一下，可以在你重了一两磅时给你预先提个醒，让你在吃东西时收敛一点。多长5磅就会让你现在合身的裤子变得紧巴巴，再想减下去也会难得多了。
Registry members readily admit that, contrary to the claims of many diet books, effective weight loss and maintenance are not easy. Most, like me, became successful when they gave up “dieting” and adopted a sensible eating and exercise plan they could stay on comfortably for the rest of their lives.
这些成员乐于承认这一点：跟许多节食书宣称的说法不同，有效减重并长期维持并非易事。大多数人，比如我，都是在放弃“节食”，采用了理性的饮食与锻炼计划，并能在余下的生活中自如地坚持这些计划后，才取得了成功。