If the metal barricades, “Do Not Enter” signs and lurking Secret Service agents were a bother the past eight years in the Hyde Park-Kenwood area — the South Side neighborhood where President Obama still owns a house, but rarely has been home — residents are not complaining.
在过去八年里，如果说那些金属路障、“禁止驶入”标志，以及潜伏在各处的特工打扰了海德公园-建伍地区的话，这里的居民也没有抱怨过，奥巴马总统在这个芝加哥南区仍拥有一套房子，但很少在那里居住。
“All that’s been fine, really. You get used to it,” said Adela Cepeda, who like many people on Mr. Obama’s block of Greenwood Avenue met him before he was president, or a senator, or elected to anything at all. “To me, it’s just too bad his time will be over. This has been fabulous for Chicago in a certain way. I think that all things being equal, we came first. But I guess all good things must end.”
“这都不是问题，真的。你会习惯的，”阿黛拉·赛佩德(Adela Ceped)说，她和住在格林伍德大道上奥巴马家所在街区的许多人一样，在奥巴马当选总统或参议员、或当选任何公职之前就见过他。“对我来说，他马上就要卸任，那才是很糟糕的事情。在某种意义上，这八年对芝加哥非常好。我觉得不管怎么说，我们得到了好处。但我知道，所有好的事情总是要结束的。”
As Mr. Obama prepared to give his farewell address on Tuesday from McCormick Place, the cavernous convention center beside Lake Michigan, people in his hometown sounded by turns possessive, proud, anxious and wistful. With his election in 2008, this city — and its heavily African-American South Side in particular — had suddenly been thrust to the forefront of the national political conversation. And so early Saturday, in temperatures barely above zero, thousands waited outside for the chance to receive free tickets to witness the end of that story. By Sunday, tickets were being hawked online for as much as $5,000.
正当奥巴马准备在周二从密歇根湖边巨大的麦考米克会展中心(McCormick Place)作告别演讲时，他老家的人提起他来有些恋恋不舍，他们既充满自豪，但也时而焦虑和伤感。奥巴马2008年当选总统后，这座城市——特别是非洲裔美国人聚居的南区——突然成为国内政治讨论前沿的主要重点。所以周六一大早，在气温比华氏零度（约零下18摄氏度）高不了多少的天气里，为获得见证这段历史结束的免费门票的机会，几千人在外面等待着。到了周日，门票已被票贩子以高达5000美元的价格在网上出售。
Near the Obamas’ red brick Georgian, not far from the University of Chicago, some wondered gloomily whether his legacy might now be erased by his successor, Donald J. Trump, who received just 12 percent of the vote in Chicago and only single-digit slivers in the wards near Mr. Obama’s house.
奥巴马家的乔治王朝时代风格的红砖房离芝加哥大学不远，那附近有人忧心重重，他们想知道，奥巴马的政治遗产如今会不会被他的继任者唐纳德·J·特朗普一笔抹消，特朗普在芝加哥只得到了12%的选票，他在奥巴马家房子附近的选区里得到的选票数不到10%。
Would Chicago’s spin in the spotlight, complicated as it had been at times, be over now, too?
尽管故事有时很复杂，但芝加哥在聚光灯下的时日如今已过去了吗？
“I guess I feel sad,” said Antonio Coye, a barber at the Hyde Park Hair Salon, where the plain black chair Mr. Obama used to sit in for his trims is now preserved under glass. Not long ago, a crew of Lycra-clad bicyclists peered at the chair from the foyer of the small shop, where a line of men forms on Saturdays and “the Obama cut,” a professional-looking taper on the side and the back for $24, remains popular.
“我想我有点伤心，”海德公园美发沙龙的理发师安东尼奥·科伊(Antonio Coye)说，奥巴马曾来店里理过发，他坐过的一把普通黑色椅子现已保存在玻璃罩下。不久前，身穿莱卡紧身衣的一群骑自行车者曾从小店的门厅里端详过这个椅子。每个周六，店里都有男子排队等待理“奥巴马发型”，这种发型仍很受欢迎，花24美元（约合166元）能得到一个让头两边和后脑勺的头发得到专业修剪的理发。
“This was really something unique that happened,” Mr. Coye said as he worked on a customer with a razor over the weekend. “It was the first time somebody really different became president, and he did a really good job. To me, the person in office after him is going to make his time in office stand out even more than it did already.”
“这真是一件非常独特的事情，”本周末，科伊一边说，一边用剃刀给一名客户理发。“这是头一次，一个真正与众不同的人当了总统，他真的干得很好。对我来说，他的继任者将让他的任期看起来比现在已经认为的还要出色。”
Full-size tour buses, once an oddity, cruise down Hyde Park Boulevard with some frequency now. People can occasionally be seen pulling over with cameras outside a nondescript shopping center along 53rd Street, where an easy-to-overlook plaque notes the Obamas’ first date, during which Barack Obama bought Michelle Robinson ice cream from a Baskin-Robbins shop that has since become a Subway.
这里曾经罕见的大型旅游巴士，如今以一定的频繁程度行驶在海德公园大道上。偶尔可以看到人们在53街的一个不起眼的购物中心外面停下车来，拿出照相机，那里有个很容易错过的匾牌，上面的标识说那是奥巴马夫妇第一次约会的地方。那次约会时，巴拉克·奥巴马从一家芭斯罗缤(Baskin-Robbins)冰激淋店给米歇尔·罗宾逊买了冰淇淋，如今那里已变成了一家赛百味连锁店。
For a place that has not forgotten being called the Second City by a New Yorker writer long ago, Chicago had watched its standing, in the eyes of the coasts, rise along with Mr. Obama’s. Chicagoans were entrusted with important posts in Washington, and many of them, along with the first family, had roots on the South Side, rather than on the richer and whiter North Side.
很久以前，《纽约客》的一位作家曾称芝加哥为“第二城市”，对于这个没有忘记那个称呼的地方来说，芝加哥见证着自己的地位在东西海岸的眼中与奥巴马的地位一道上升。芝加哥人被任命到华盛顿的重要职位上，其中许多人与第一家庭一样来自南区，而不是富裕的、有更多白人的北区。
At points during the eight-year term, Chicago voices seemed to be everywhere. Both Valerie Jarrett and David Axelrod, who is now back in Hyde Park at the Institute of Politics at the University of Chicago, were senior advisers. Chicago cabinet members included Arne Duncan (education) and Penny Pritzker (commerce). Austan Goolsbee, another Hyde Parker, was an economic adviser, and Desirée Rogers was an early White House social secretary. And Mr. Obama’s first-term chiefs of staff included William M. Daley, the brother of Chicago’s former mayor, and Rahm Emanuel, who was later elected mayor.
在奥巴马八年任期内的某些时刻，芝加哥的声音似乎无处不在。瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)和戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)都担任过高级顾问，后者现已回到海德公园，在芝加哥大学政治学院任职。来自芝加哥的奥巴马内阁成员包括阿恩·邓肯（[Arne Duncan]，教育部长）和潘妮·普利茨克（[Penny Pritzker]，商业部长）。另一名海德公园居民奥斯坦·古尔斯比(Austan Goolsbee)曾担任经济顾问，德西蕾·罗杰斯(Desirée Rogers)曾是白宫早期的社交秘书。在奥巴马的第一任期内担任过幕僚长的人包括芝加哥前市长的兄弟威廉·M·戴利(William M. Daley)和后来当选市长的拉姆·伊曼纽尔(Rahm Emanuel)。
But it is not just the shutting of that pipeline that causes concern. In Mr. Obama’s old neighborhood, the notion that Mr. Trump was soon to step in left some speaking of the president’s farewell speech in terms more akin to a funeral than a celebration.
但是，让人担忧的不仅仅是这条升迁道路的关闭。在奥巴马的老邻居中，特朗普即将担任总统的这一想法，让一些人在说起奥巴马总统的告别演讲时更像是谈及一场葬礼，而不是一场庆祝活动。
Many recalled watching an ebullient re-election evening here in 2012, when President Obama appeared at McCormick Place — a bookend, it now seems, to Tuesday night. Others recounted how they had felt as they watched his 2008 victory from Grant Park, the city’s downtown front yard along the lake, where he addressed thousands with the gleaming Chicago skyline as a backdrop.
许多人回忆起2012年奥巴马再次当选总统后出现在麦考米克会展中心的那个沸腾的夜晚，现在看来，那正是本周二晚的另一面。其他人则描述了他们2008年在格兰特公园(Grant Park)庆祝奥巴马获胜的感受，奥巴马在那个以芝加哥光彩夺目的天际线为背景的城市湖滨前院里，在成千上万人面前进行了演讲。
“It was a magical moment — such a positive buzz all around,” said Kevin Elliott, a manager at 57th Street Books, an underground maze where Mr. Obama had held book signings and often visited before his election.
“那是个神奇的时刻，到处充满了积极和兴奋的情绪，”第57街书店(57th Street Books)的经理凯文·埃里奥特(Kevin Elliott)说，这家书店像是一个地下迷宫，是奥巴马当选总统前常来的地方，他在这里举行过签名售书活动。
Even here, though, a few have questioned whether Mr. Obama did as much as he could during his time in office to solve urban problems of gang violence, joblessness and segregation. In Chicago, violence cascaded last year: More people, 762, were murdered in the president’s hometown in 2016 than in New York and Los Angeles combined. Some complained that Mr. Obama had not interceded forcefully enough.
但是，即使在这里，也有几个人对奥巴马在任职期间是否尽可能地解决了更多的城市问题表示质疑，这些问题包括帮派暴力、失业和种族隔离。芝加哥去年的暴力激增：2016年，在总统的家乡有762人被杀害，比在纽约和洛杉矶加起来的还多。有人抱怨说，奥巴马对这个问题没有进行足够有力的干预。
“He was a community organizer here himself, and he should be embarrassed that he came in as president and the problems have actually worsened,” said Ja’Mal Green, a local activist.
“他曾是这里的一个社区组织者，他当了总统后，这里的问题实际上更糟了，他应该感到尴尬，”当地的活动分子贾马尔·格林(Ja’Mal Green)说。
But others, like Mr. Coye, the barber, noted that Mr. Obama was president of the United States, not of the South Side: “Who knows what happens now, but you can’t have expected him to solve this city’s violence.”
但是，像理发师科伊那样的其他人则指出，奥巴马是美国的总统，不是南区的总统：“谁知道现在会发生什么，但你不能指望他来解决这个城市的暴力问题。”
The Obamas intend to stay in Washington while their younger daughter finishes high school, but many residents here believe that they might never return to the house on Greenwood Avenue. He is building his presidential library in Chicago, many say, and that is just fine.
奥巴马一家打算留在华盛顿，等他们的幼女高中毕业，但这里的许多居民认为，他们可能永远不会回到格林伍德大道的房子。他正在芝加哥盖自己的总统图书馆。不少人说，不回来也没问题。
“No, he’s not coming back, and he shouldn’t, either — he couldn’t go anywhere without being recognized,” said Stephanie Crouse, 53, a school bus driver eating her lunch from a tray at Valois, a Hyde Park cafeteria Mr. Obama once frequented.
“不，他不会回来了，他也不该回来。他不管去哪儿都会被人认出来，”53岁的校车司机斯蒂芬妮·克鲁斯(Stephanie Crouse)说，她正在海德公园的Valois自助餐厅用一个托盘吃着午饭，奥巴马曾经常光顾这家餐厅。
“This is like your kids,” she added. “He’s done his thing. He did what he could. And you’re sending him off now to graduate and move up and go off to better things.”
“就像是你的孩子，”她补充说。“他做完了他的事情。他做了他能够做的。你现在要送他毕业，让他到更好的地方得到更好的东西。”