When it comes to Barbie’s body, it will no longer be one size fits all.
芭比(Barbie)将不再只拥有一种体形。
On Thursday, Mattel unveiled curvy, petite and tall versions of its iconic fashion doll whose unrealistically thin shape has attracted criticism for decades. The three body types will also be sold in an assortment of skin tones, eye colors and hairstyles.
周四（1月28日），美泰(Mattel)公布了自己标志性时尚玩偶的丰满、小巧和高大版本。几十年来，芭比不现实的苗条身材招致无数批评。这三种体形还将与各种肤色、眼睛颜色和发型搭配销售。
The move is about more than just making Barbie look different. While Barbie was once Mattel’s powerhouse brand, sales have plummeted in recent years as the doll has struggled to remain relevant to little girls who do not look like her and who play with toys other than dolls.
这一行动不只是为了让芭比看起来有所不同。虽然芭比曾是美泰的支柱品牌，但是近些年芭比的销量急速下滑，因为这款玩偶要努力继续吸引那些长得不像芭比、喜欢玩其它玩具的女孩。
“This is about drawing a wider demographic that had turned away from Barbie back to Barbie,” said Jim Silver, the editor of TTPM, a toy review website.
玩偶评论网站TTPM的编辑吉姆·西尔弗(Jim Silver)说：“这是为了让那些对芭比失去兴趣的更广泛的人群重新爱上芭比。”
Barbie’s latest makeover began in a big way last year, when Mattel released a broad assortment of dolls in a greater number of skin tones, eye colors and even facial structures as part of its Fashionistas line.
芭比最近的大变身始于去年，美泰发布了拥有各种肤色、眼睛颜色、甚至脸型的多个系列玩偶。
“I think today, frankly more so than any other time, Barbie is truly representing what girls see,” said Richard Dickson, who is Mattel’s president and chief operating officer and the executive in charge of Barbie’s reinvention.
美泰的总裁兼首席运营官理查德·迪克森(Richard Dickson)负责芭比的重塑。他说：“我觉得如今的芭比比以往任何时候都更能代表女孩们看到的真实情况。”
But some industry experts and academics have long doubted that cosmetic changes — whether racial or ethnic or body shapes — can revive the popularity of the 57-year-old Barbie, whose sales have been declining by double-digits in recent years.
但是，一些行业专家和学者一直怀疑妆容的改变——不管是种族还是体形——并不能让57岁的芭比重受欢迎。近些年它的销量一直以两位数下降。
Executives like Mr. Dickson have been optimistic, pointing to signs that Barbie’s in-store sales began picking up last year. Still, third-quarter sales in 2015 — the most recent figures available — showed that Barbie sales declined 14 percent from the same period a year earlier.
迪克森等一些公司高管们比较乐观。他指出，去年芭比的实体店销量开始回升。不过，2015年第三季度的销量（目前已知的最新数据）表明，芭比的销量较前年同期下降了14%。
The slumping sales may also be partly attributed to the shift away from traditional toys toward electronics and games in recent years, as many parents and children have clamored for less gender-specific toys. Companies like GoldieBlox have sprung up to offer girls more career-oriented toys, and even Lego, the world’s top toymaker, has had to alter its strategy and some of its building block lines to accommodate the growth in the market for learning toys that appeal to boys and girls.
销售下滑的另一个原因是近些年孩子们的兴趣从传统玩具转向电子玩具和电子游戏，很多父母和儿童呼吁厂家生产没有鲜明性别特色的玩具。GoldieBlox等公司纷纷涌现，为女孩们提供更具职业导向的玩具，甚至连世界顶级玩具制造商乐高(Lego)也必须改变策略和某些积木系列，以适应孩子们喜欢的学习型玩具市场的增长。
Mr. Dickson has been steering Mattel’s other professionals.
迪克森也一直带领着美泰的其他专业人士。
Barbie’s aspirations have translated to Mattel’s products: Hello Barbie, the interactive talking doll, asks children about what they want to be when they grow up — a far cry from the Barbie who once claimed that “Math class is tough.”
芭比的志向转变为美泰的产品：互动聊天玩偶“你好芭比”(Hello Barbie)询问孩子们长大后想做什么，这与曾经宣称“数学课很难”的芭比大相径庭。
“The ones in multiple skin tones did phenomenal for Mattel, and it showed them that people wanted much more than the blonde blue-eyed Barbie,” Mr. Silver said. (Mattel unveiled an African-American Barbie in the late 1960s, and the first Asian Barbie appeared in 1980 as part of its “dolls of the world” collection.)
西尔弗说：“多种肤色的芭比点醒了美泰，他们发现，人们想要的不只是金发碧眼的芭比。”（美泰在20世纪60年代末推出了一款非裔美国芭比，第一款亚裔芭比出现在1980年，属于“世界玩偶”系列。）
Still, Mattel executives have struggled to rebrand Barbie as an aspirational figure, one not so closely identified with her unnatural body measurements.
不过，美泰的高管们努力把芭比重新塑造成一个有雄心壮志的人物，这与她不太自然的身材不太相符。
“It’s hardly a bolt of genius to say let’s make dolls that look different,” said Sean McGowan, an analyst with Oppenheimer and Company. “It’s more like saying ‘Yeah, we stuck with that one single iconic image for too long, let’s try multiple ones.’ ”
奥本海默公司(Oppenheimer and Company)的分析师肖恩·麦高恩(Sean McGowan)说：“做些看起来不一样的玩偶算不上天才的想法。更可能的情况是：‘哎，这一款标志性形象我们做得太久了，咱们尝试点不一样的东西吧。’”
The new set of dolls was reported earlier by Time magazine on Thursday and is available for pre-order online. The dolls are expected to hit store shelves at major retailers, including Walmart and Toys “R” Us, in March, according to a Mattel spokesman, Alex Clark.
周四（1月28日），《时代》杂志(Time)率先报道了这套新玩偶。目前这套玩偶开始在网上预售。据美泰的发言人亚历克斯·克拉克(Alex Clark)说，这些玩偶有望在3月份上架，包括在沃尔玛(Walmart)和玩具反斗城(Toys “R” Us)等主要零售商的店铺里。
On Twitter, reactions were mixed.
人们在Twitter上的反应褒贬不一。
“I think as a woman it’s about time, and as a physician, I strongly support that,” said Dr. Kelli Harding, assistant professor of psychiatry at Columbia University Medical Center, who has a background in body dysmorphic disorder. “For a little girl, it’s important to have diversity in what they’re playing with.”
“作为女人，我觉得实在是来得太晚了；作为医生，我强烈支持，”哥伦比亚大学医疗中心(Columbia University Medical Center)的精神病学助理教授凯莉·哈丁博士(Kelli Harding)说。她专门研究过身体畸形恐惧症。“对小女孩来说，玩具的多样性很重要。”
Mattel is remaining tight-lipped about how it came up with Barbie’s new proportions. It’s part of the “art and the science,” as Mr. Dickson put it, of creating any toy.
美泰对芭比的新体形是如何设计出来的仍三缄其口。迪克森说，这是创造玩具的“艺术和科学”的一部分。
But a curvy, or more full-figured, Barbie doll is about more than just reshaping one brand. The initiative is part of a broader cultural shift at Mattel, where executives have been trying to transform the company into a 21st century toymaker.
但生产身材丰满或体重偏高的芭比娃娃，不仅是为了重新塑造某一个品牌，而是为了在更广的范围变革美泰的文化，高管们正努力把这家公司变成21世纪的玩具制造者。
Faced with weakening sales in its core brands like Barbie and Fisher-Price, and criticism that it was too slow to pick up on trends, Mattel has undertaken a number of efforts to improve innovation.
面对芭比和费雪(Fisher-Price)等核心品牌销售下滑的事实以及跟随潮流太慢的批评，美泰在提高创新能力方面做出了很多努力。
A little over a year ago, it created its Toy Box division to fast-track new products, like Hello Barbie and the virtual reality View-Master, two products Mattel has used to showcase that it can be as tech-savvy as its competitors.
一年多前，它开设了Toy Box分部，快速追踪新产品，比如你好芭比和虚拟现实的View-Master，美泰用这两款产品向竞争对手们表明自己同样擅长使用新技术。
Barbie’s new shapes also coincide with a progressive cultural shift already underway in stores and the toy aisles. Parents and many health experts have complained that too many dolls, models and even clothing companies conform to an extremely thin, even anorexic, body type and have pressured corporations to offer a broader variety of images and apparel sizes to give girls and boys more confidence in their own body shapes.
芭比新体形推出之际，正是店铺和玩具货架的文化变迁不断发展之时。父母和很多健康专家抱怨有太多玩偶和模特甚至服装公司，追求极瘦甚至厌食症患者那种体形，迫使很多公司提供更多不同的造型和服装尺码，让女孩和男孩们对自己的体形更有信心。
And some parents, concerned about negative gender stereotypes (a racecar for a son, a princess doll for a daughter), have pushed retailers into more gender-neutral territory.
有些父母担心性别固有思维（比如，给儿子买赛车，给女儿买公主玩偶）会给孩子带来负面影响，这促使零售商们购进更中性的玩具。
The Disney Store, for example, decided to label all of its children’s Halloween costumes as “for kids,” as opposed to for boys or girls. Amazon, which by some measures accounts for more than half of all online sales, has banished gender distinctions for its toys.
比如，迪士尼商店(Disney Store)决定把所有的万圣节儿童服装标记为“童装”，而非“男童装”或“女童装”。亚马逊(Amazon)取消了玩具的性别区分。按某些标准衡量，一半多的网购是通过亚马逊进行的。
Last year, for probably the first time in Mattel’s history, a Moschino Barbie commercial featured a boy playing with the doll.
去年，Moschino Barbie的广告片中出现男孩玩芭比的画面，这在美泰的历史上很可能是首次。
“I think that this is bigger than Barbie’s shape, because this really gets at gender inequality in the United States as well,” Dr. Harding said
哈丁说：“我觉得，它的意义比芭比体形的改变更重大，因为这真的也体现了美国男女不平等的情况。”