The cobblestones of Paris have seen some things. They were trodden by jaunty French soldiers in 1914 and jubilant Free French liberators in 1944, and were rolled over by the tumbrels of 1793 and the panzers of 1940. They were hurled at the police and piled in barricades in 1848 and 1968. They’ve been shown rain-slicked in countless paintings and photographs.
巴黎的鹅卵石可谓见多识广。它们曾在1914年和1944年分别被意气风发的法国士兵和喜气洋洋的自由法兰西(Free French)解放者踩在脚下，曾在1793年和1940年分别被死囚押送车和德军装甲车碾过。它们曾在1848年被掷向警察，在1968年被垒成路障。它们被雨水淋湿的样子曾出现在数不清的画作和照片里。
And now you can own one. Used Paris cobblestones are being offered for sale online at Mon Pavé Parisien, spruced up and suitable for showcasing on a mantel or étagère anywhere in the world.
现如今，你也可以拥有一枚。“我的巴黎铺路石”(Mon Pavé Parisien)眼下正在网上销售二手巴黎鹅卵石，它们被收拾得漂漂亮亮，适合摆放在世界任何地方的壁炉或者架子上。
Each year, the city digs up about 10,000 tons of old cobblestones as it rebuilds or repaves its streets. It used to discard them along with other rubble. But officials recently hit on the idea of salvaging the stones and selling them, to spare the city the trouble and expense of hauling them to the dump.
因为要重建或重铺街道，巴黎每年都要挖掘出大约1万吨鹅卵石，以前总是把它们和其他瓦砾一起丢掉。但官员们最近想出了保留并出售这些石头的主意，为的是省去把它们运到垃圾场的麻烦和费用。
“Rather than have cobblestones thrown away, we collect them, we clean them and give them a second life,” said Patrick Marchetti, the head of the city maintenance yard where the stones are stored.
“我们不再扔掉鹅卵石，而是搜集并清理它们，让它们焕发新生，”城市维护场的负责人帕特里克·马尔凯蒂(Patrick Marchetti)说。旧鹅卵石就被储存在那里。
The intended buyers were contractors and others who wanted to build with them. But an entrepreneur named Margaux Sainte-Lagüe saw an opportunity. Last September she bought five tons of the cobblestones for about 200 euros ($215) and set about turning them into keepsakes for local and foreign buyers eager for a bit of Paris laden with memories.
一度，有意购买者都是承包商以及其他一些想用它们建造点儿什么的人。但一位名叫马尔戈·圣拉居(Margaux Sainte-Lagüe)的创业者看到了商机。去年9月，她花大约200欧元（合215美元）买下了5吨鹅卵石，并着手把它们变成纪念品，卖给那些当地和外国的买家，他们都渴望拥有满载回忆的巴黎碎片。
Ms. Sainte-Lagüe polishes the stones, which weigh from two and a half to six pounds, and hand-paints them in various designs, from the simple tricolor of the French flag to an eye-catching gold-plated version. She’ll personalize them on request. And in true collectible fashion, she gives each stone a number and a “Made in Paris” certificate.
圣拉居对这些重2.5磅到6磅不等的石头进行了抛光，还为它们手绘了各种图案，有法国国旗的简单三色，也有吸引眼球的镀金版本。她会根据客人的要求，提供个性化服务。此外，按照收藏界的时髦做法，她给每块石头都编了号，还附上了一份“巴黎制造”的证书。
All that transforms an 8-cent paver into a souvenir priced at 60 to 150 euros ($64 to $160). So far she’s sold more than 100, and shipped them to buyers as far away as Oklahoma and China.
所有这些让8欧分一块的石头摇身一变，成了售价高达60至150欧元（合64至160美元）的纪念品。到目前为止她卖出了100多块，并把它们发到了远至美国俄克拉何马州和中国的地方。
The streets of Paris were first paved with stones in the 12th century under King Philip II, and the practice continued well into the 20th century. These days, cobblestones are buried under the asphalt on about one-third of the city’s streets, but they endure as the surface pavement on a few iconic boulevards and squares, like the Champs-Élysées and the Place de la Bastille, and in the narrow alleys of historic neighborhoods like Montmartre.
巴黎的街道在12世纪国王腓力二世(Philip II)治下首次用石头铺设，这种做法一直延续到了20世纪。近年来，这座城市大约三分之一的街道上的鹅卵石都被埋在了沥青之下，但一些具有标志性的大街和广场，比如香榭丽舍大街(Champs-Élysées)和巴士底广场(Place de la Bastille)，仍然保留着鹅卵石地面，在蒙马特等历史悠久的地区那窄窄的巷子里，也能看到它们的身影。
As souvenirs go, Ms. Sainte-Lagüe said in an interview, a cobblestone has one clear advantage over the miniature Eiffel Towers and Joconde-emblazoned T-shirts that tourists snap up by the hundreds of thousands every year: It is sure to last. “It’s a piece of history,” she said.
圣拉居在接受采访时表示，说到纪念品，鹅卵石显然比每年都会受到大批游客追捧的微缩版埃菲尔铁塔和印有蒙娜丽莎图案的T恤有优势：它肯定可以留存下去。“它是历史的碎片，”她说。