For five years now, I have been tending a plot — cultivating hostas, lilies and astilbes, gently trying to persuade a hydrangea bush not to depart this earth — in the Lotus Garden, a community garden on West 97th Street between Broadway and West End Avenue.
五年来，我一直在照看一小片土地——种植玉簪、百合、落新妇，温柔地呵护着一丛绣球花，将它挽留在这片土地。这里是荷花园(Lotus Garden)，西97街的一座社区花园，就在百老汇和西区大道(West End Avenue)之间。
The Lotus Garden is one of the most lush and tranquil spots in New York, but if you’ve never heard of it, you are far from alone. While a sign on an iron gate plainly marks the entrance, all that is visible through the bars is a flight of concrete stairs leading to the roof of a parking garage.
荷花园是纽约最苍翠、最宁静的地方。不过，如果你从来没有听说过它，很多人也跟你一样。虽然铁门上有块标牌清楚地标明了入口，但透过栅栏，你只能看到一段混凝土楼梯，通往车库的屋顶。
But should you be inclined to mount those steps — an opportunity the public has every Sunday from April to November, between 1 and 4 p.m. — you would find a sixth of an acre supporting mature trees, shrubs and serpentine paths curving around clumps of fragrant plantings maintained by 30 gardeners of various ages and experience levels.
不过，如果你有闲情逸致登上台阶（4到11月间，每周日的下午1至4点，这里都是对公众开放的），你就会看到一片1/6英亩（约合674平方米）的土地，上面种植着成熟的树木、灌木，如蛇形的小径蜿蜒穿过一丛又一丛芳香四溢的植物。照料这些植物的，是30名年龄和经验都各不相同的园丁。
There are also vines, bits of statuary, conversational seating clusters, a quaintly decomposing toolshed and a pair of goldfish ponds that gave the garden its name. It appears that a man from Manchuria who had been growing lotuses in tubs in his New York living room showed up one day around the time the garden was being installed three decades ago and asked if he could park them in the new ponds while the weather was warm.
这里还有几株藤蔓植物、几座小雕像、几张供人围坐在一起聊天的椅子、一间古雅而破败的工具棚，还有两方金鱼塘——这座花园就是以它们命名的。据说，有个住在纽约的满洲人一直在自家客厅里养荷花。30年前的某一天，这座花园刚建成的时候，满洲人来到这里询问管事的人，看他能不能在天气暖和的时候把荷花移植到池子里。
Yes, three decades: that’s how long it has sat on its rooftop, hemmed in by buildings, like a miniature High Line without tourist swarms. And then there is the extraordinary way it came to be.
没错，30年——这就是荷花园的历史，它坐落在屋顶上，周围环绕着建筑，就像一座迷你的高线公园（High Line Park，位于纽约曼哈顿中城西侧，是由停用的高架运输线改造成的空中花园——译注），只不过这里没有比肩继踵的游客。荷花园的创立也颇具传奇色彩。
As recounted by Jeffrey Kindley, a Lotus gardener who shares a plot with his wife, Louise, and is compiling the garden’s history to commemorate its 30th anniversary this fall, the origins date from the late 1970s. At that time, Broadway between West 96th and West 97th Streets was a study in blight, having been stripped of a pair of historic theaters, the Riverside and the Riviera. The buildings had survived the death of vaudeville but not the city’s recent financial crisis.
杰弗里·金德利(Jeffrey Kindley)是荷花园的园丁之一，他和妻子露易丝(Louise)共同照管着一小块土地。他正在编纂这座花园的历史，以迎接今年秋天的30周年纪念日。据他说，荷花园创立于70年代末。当时，西96至97街之间的那段百老汇大道(Broadway)还是一处走向衰败的地段，已有Riverside和Riviera这两座颇具历史的剧院被撤出。那里的建筑，挺过了歌舞杂耍衰亡匿迹的往昔，却没能在这座城市最近一次金融危机中幸存下来。
Mark Greenwald, an architect with the Department of City Planning and a rooftop gardener at his West 97th Street home, joined members of his block association in persuading Manufacturers Hanover Trust, the bank that owned the vacant land, to allow the group to clear it of rubble and lay down soil around the perimeter. Within a few years, the lot, a full acre, was accommodating 125 gardeners working 75 plots, Mr. Greenwald told Mr. Kindley. He noted that even the neighborhood derelicts were supportive. “One day somebody jumped the fence and stole a tomato,” he said. “One of the guys on the corner hit him over the head with a wine bottle.”
马克·格林沃德(Mark Greenwald)是纽约市规划局(Department of City Planning)的建筑师，也是自家屋顶的园丁，居住在西97街。他同街区联合会的会员一起，说服了拥有一片空地的汉华实业银行(Manufacturers Hanover Trust)，使之同意他们清理空地上的碎石瓦砾，在周边铺上土壤。格林沃德告诉金德利，在几年时间里，这片整整1英亩（约合4047平方米）的空地吸引了125名园丁，他们照管着75个地块。他注意到，就连社区里的流浪汉也支持他们。“有一天，一个人翻过围墙，偷了一个西红柿，”他说，“角落里有个流浪汉用酒瓶砸了他的脑袋。”
Among the gardeners was a songwriter and comedy writer named Carrie Maher. Mr. Greenwald recently told me how he passed by the vacant lot on his way to the subway each morning and struck up an acquaintance with Ms. Maher through the chain-link fence.
在这些园丁当中，有一名歌曲作者兼喜剧作家叫卡莉·马厄(Carrie Maher)。格林沃德最近告诉我，当年他每天早上去搭地铁时都会经过这块空地，他和马厄就隔着菱形钢丝网相互结识了。
They became comrades in trowels, who eventually were married at the nearby Cathedral of St. John the Divine, but I’m getting ahead of the story. Ms. Maher, on top of her other interests, was a community garden activist with connections to the city’s various greening groups. Mr. Greenwald knew his way around urban space and bureaucracies.
他们成了手执园艺铲的同道中人，最终在附近的圣约翰教堂(Cathedral of St. John the Divine)结了婚，但这是后话。马厄最热衷的事情是做一名社区花园积极分子，她在纽约市的各类绿化组织中建立了人脉。而格林沃德则对城市空间和相关的官僚系统非常熟悉。
Together, they saw an opportunity rather than a calamity, they said, when the developer William Zeckendorf Jr. optioned the lot for a condominium tower. The pair was sure that the property attracted commercial interests because of its new vitality, but they also knew that Mr. Zeckendorf’s project would be tough to pull off. At that time, Broadway north of 96th Street was no banker’s idea of a prudent investment, and the local community was hostile to development.
他们说，当开发商小威廉·齐肯多夫(William Zeckendorf Jr.)提出，要在这块空地上建立一座共管公寓大厦时，他们看到的不是灾难，而是机遇。两人确信，这片地块之所以吸引到了商业人士的兴趣，是因为它新生的活力。不过他们也知道，齐肯多夫的计划很难成功。当时，没有银行认为在百老汇上第96街以北的路段投资是明智的选择，而当地社区对开发活动也很抵触。
In 1981, with help from several local legislators and community leaders, Mr. Greenwald convened a town-hall meeting at the Upper West Side cultural center Symphony Space to which he invited the neighborhood. He presented a slide show of the history of that stretch of Broadway. “I got people excited about the prospect that change was inevitable and let’s see how we can direct it,” he said.
到了1981年，在好几位当地立法者和社区领导人的帮助下，格林沃德在上西区的文化中心“交响乐空间”(Symphony Space)召开了一场市政会议，邀请了社区成员参与。他放映幻灯片展示了百老汇那个地段的历史。“我让人们对未来充满希望，让他们意识到，改变是不可避免的，而我们可以引导改变。”他说。
Then, like a bagel-district Machiavelli, he and Ms. Maher, along with other New York greening leaders, boldly bypassed the city planning department and local community board to negotiate directly with Mr. Zeckendorf and his lawyers and architect. Meeting in Ms. Maher’s West End Avenue apartment, they proposed to make the condominium, called the Columbia, more attractive to buyers and acceptable to locals by putting a community garden on the site.
接着，他像百吉饼产地的马基雅维利(Machiavelli)一样，与马厄等纽约绿化组织的领导人一道，大胆绕过了城市规划局和当地社区委员会，直接与齐肯多夫及其律师、建筑师进行了谈判。他们在马厄位于西区大道的公寓里开了会，并提议，为了使这栋名为哥伦比亚(Columbia)的共管公寓大厦对买家更具吸引力，同时让当地人更容易接受，应该在楼盘的地块上建立一座社区花园。
Because of recently adopted urban planning guidelines, the Broadway side of the new building was required to be a height consistent with others along the street, and its 35-story tower set back from Broadway on the 96th Street side; this created a courtyard space partly filled by the condo’s low-rise parking garage. At first, Mr. Zeckendorf suggested putting a greenhouse on the garage’s roof, but Ms. Maher was concerned that debris routinely thrown from the windows of the Royal York, a single-room-occupancy hotel next door, would shatter the glass.
由于新出台的城市规划规定，这栋新建筑朝向百老汇大道的一面要与同一条街上的其它建筑高度一致。于是这栋35层的大厦朝向第96街的一面向里缩进，与百老汇大道之间空出了一段距离；由此衍生出的庭院空间，有一部分被楼层较低的车库占据。一开始，齐肯多夫建议在车库的屋顶建一座温室，但马厄担心，隔壁的单间房酒店Royal York经常有杂物碎片从窗口扔出，可能会把温室的玻璃砸碎。
Mr. Greenwald estimated that in the end, Mr. Zeckendorf spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to engineer the parking garage so that it would support two and a half feet of soil and allow drainage. The developer further gave the gardeners $25,000 in start-up costs and $50,000 for an endowment. With help from the Trust for Public Land’s New York office, they received a 15-year renewable lease from the Columbia at $1 a year.
据格林沃德估计，齐肯多夫最终投入了几十万美元来设计车库，使之既能承载住1.5英尺（约合46厘米）厚的土壤，又能确保排水。开发商又为园丁们提供了2.5万美元（约合人民币16万元）的启动资金和5万美元（约合人民币31万元）的捐助。在公共土地信托会(Trust for Public Land)纽约办事处的帮助下，他们从哥伦比亚大厦拿到了15年的可续租约，租金为每年1美元（约合人民币6元）。
Mr. Zeckendorf, who died this year at 84, had made his son Arthur the point person on the Columbia. In an email sent through his publicist, the younger Mr. Zeckendorf recalled helping the gardeners move plants to a new site in Riverside Park at West 91st Street when the building broke ground. The decision to support the Lotus Garden, he said, was “a measure of good will towards the community and New York.” He added: “William Zeckendorf Jr.’s grandparents lived on the Upper West Side, and his father built Park West Village and Lincoln Towers.”
齐肯多夫于今年去世，享年84岁。他在生前将哥伦比亚大厦的掌管权交给了儿子亚瑟(Arthur)。亚瑟通过公关人员发送了一封邮件，在其中回忆道，大楼动工时，他们帮助园丁们把植物移植到了位于西91街的河滨公园(Riverside Park)的新地点。他说，之所以决定支持荷花园，是想“对本社区、乃至纽约表现出一种善意的姿态，”他还说，“小威廉·齐肯多夫的祖父母居住在上西区，他的父亲建造了Park West Village和林肯大厦(Lincoln Towers)。”
The Columbia also turned out to be a commercial triumph. Most of the condos “were snapped up by people who lived in the area,” Douglas Martin wrote in William Zeckendorf Jr.’s obituary in The New York Times in February, which credited the building with turning around the neighborhood. “The units soon doubled in value.”
哥伦比亚大厦在商业上也取得了成功。多数共管公寓“被居住在本地区的人抢购一空，”道格拉斯·马丁(Douglas Martin)在今年2月《纽约时报》刊登的小威廉·齐肯多夫的讣告中这么写。马丁评价道，这座大厦给社区带来了改善，“这些公寓单元的价值很快翻了一倍。”
In November 1984, Ms. Maher and Mr. Greenwald recruited local volunteers to lay out the Lotus Garden. In the center they planted a dwarf peach tree that unaccountably grew 12 feet high and 20 feet wide, and within a few years was producing bushels of fruit.
1984年11月，马厄和格林沃德招募了当地志愿者来布置荷花园。在花园中央，他们种植了一棵低矮的桃树。令他们始料未及的是，这棵桃树长到了12英尺高（约合4米）、20英尺宽（约合6米），几年内就结出了累累果实。
When news of the garden spread, the couple was contacted by the horticulturalist at Rockefeller Center, who offered three Amelanchier canadensis, or serviceberry trees, that were failing to thrive on the center’s roof terrace and waited to be picked up from a Midtown garage under cover of darkness. Each tree weighed 500 pounds, Mr. Greenwald estimated, and required creative maneuvering to haul up the stairs.
花园的名声传开后，洛克菲勒中心(Rockefeller Center)的园艺师联系了夫妻俩，打算赠送三棵加拿大唐棣(Amelanchier canadensis)，又叫扶移树(serviceberry tree)。这三棵树在洛克菲勒中心的屋顶露台长势不好，后来被放在中城区一间车库的阴凉地上，等待移植。格林沃德估计，每棵树重500磅（约合227公斤），要把它们运上台阶，需要费一番功夫。
The couple assembled the first group of gardeners, whose numbers were so sparse that each worked multiple plots. They started an annual Halloween party that continues to this day, and introduced the practice of distributing keys for a nominal fee so that the public could enjoy the garden throughout the week. The current price of renting a key is $20 a year, $10 for applicants 65 years or older. When plots open up, new gardeners are selected from the population of key holders, who take on volunteer jobs like watering.
夫妻俩召集了第一批园丁，由于人数太少，每个园丁得负责照看多个地块。他们开创了每年举办万圣节派对的传统——这项传统一直持续到了现在。同时，他们还引进了发放钥匙的机制，公众可以象征性地支付一笔钥匙租借费，以便一周七天都能参观花园。目前的钥匙租借费是每年20美元（约合人民币124元），65岁以上的老人每年10美元（约合人民币62元）。新地块开辟出来以后，新的园丁将从钥匙持有者当中挑选，钥匙持有者会做一些志愿工作，比如浇水。
Mr. Greenwald told Mr. Kindley, the Lotus historian, that he and Ms. Maher wanted to prevent the bickering that had fouled relationships in other community gardens, so they ran the Lotus Garden “like a benevolent dictatorship.”
格林沃德告诉荷花园的历史编纂者金德利，他和马厄不希望园丁之间发生争吵。很多其它社区花园的园丁，关系就是这样变坏的。因此，他们以“善意独裁”的方式经营着荷花园。
After 11 years, the couple moved to Connecticut and opened a landscape design firm. They turned over leadership of the Lotus Garden to Mary Sherman Parsons, who was known for her severity. (Among other things, she was said to be strictly opposed to moving plants around.) “We were more like Omar Bradley, she was more like George Patton,” Mr. Greenwald said.
过了11年，夫妇俩搬到康涅狄格州，创立了一家园林设计公司。他们把荷花园的掌管权交给了严厉得出名的玛丽·谢尔曼·帕森斯(Mary Sherman Parsons)。（除了其他事迹，据说她极力反对将植物到处移动。）“我们更像奥马尔·布拉德利（Omar Bradley，美国名将，为人宽厚——译注），她更像乔治·巴顿（George Patton，美国名将，为人严厉——译注）。”格林沃德说。
Ms. Parsons died in 2004, and after a year of shared leadership, Kenneth Karpel, a consulting architect, became president. (Picture whichever general was most soothing to get an idea of his administration.) In 2011, he handed the reins to Pamela Mason Wagner, an extroverted Emmy-winning documentary film director and producer, and Judith Vowles, an introspective European literature scholar and author, who bring complementary gifts to their coalition government.
2004年，帕森斯去世了。荷花园实行了一年共同领导(shared leadership)机制后，顾问建筑师肯尼斯·卡佩尔(Kenneth Karpel)当上了主席（想象一下最能稳定人心的名将，就知道他的领导风格了）。2011年，他将大权交给了帕梅拉·梅森·瓦格纳(Pamela Mason Wagner)和朱迪斯·沃尔斯(Judith Vowles)。瓦格纳性格外向，是一名纪录片导演和制片人、艾美奖得主；沃尔斯则性格内向，是一名欧洲文学学者和撰稿人。两人在就任期间起到了互补的作用。
Mr. Karpel continues to spearhead projects like rebuilding the toolshed and constructing new composting bins. When one gardener moved out of state, stripping her plot of plants, even those she had inherited from previous custodians, he conducted a sage-burning ceremony to clear the garden of all traces of malevolence.
卡佩尔在一些项目中继续发挥着先锋作用，比如重建工具棚、新建堆肥箱等。有一名园丁离开纽约州后，卡佩尔清除了她原有地块的所有植物，包括她从前一任照管人那里继承的植物；然后举行了燃烧鼠尾草的仪式（美洲的原住民萨满常在仪式里使用鼠尾草来达到净化的效果——译注），以驱散花园内的所有不洁之物。
On a recent Sunday, he led this reporter on a tour of his plot, a shady nook in the southwest corner that had once belonged to Mr. Greenwald. He introduced his hostas, which included varieties known as Guacamole and Mouse Ears, and his Corylopsis sinensis, or witch hazel, as it is called by those who lack his gift for mnemonics: “ ‘Flopsy, Mopsy, Corylopsis,’ ” he said. “It’s the only way I remember it.”
在最近一个周日，他带本文记者参观了自己的地块——花园西南角一片阴暗的角落，这里曾经是格林沃德的地块。他介绍了自己种植的两种植物。一是玉簪，品种包括“鳄梨沙拉”(Guacamole)、“鼠耳”(Mouse Ears)；二是蜡瓣花(Corylopsis sinensis)，也叫金缕梅(witch hazel)，很多人没有他那么擅长记忆术，一般都会采用后一种叫法。“我一般会把它跟发音相似的其它词一起记，比如Flopsy、Mopsy、Corylopsis，”他说，“我只有用这种方法才能记住它。”
The garden has been tended by a few world-class horticulturalists, like Fred Rosenstiel, whom Mr. Greenwald remembered mostly for crushing the ambitions of his associates, swearing that the plants they proposed to embed would never live. But you are more likely to discover that your fellow gardener began as a sub-amateur who has killed countless perennials along the path to knowledge.
这片花园的照管者当中，还有几个世界级的园艺师，其中包括弗雷德·罗森斯蒂尔(Fred Rosenstiel)。他给格林沃德留下的最深印象就是，他经常击碎其他同好的梦想，一口咬定他们打算栽种的植物永远无法成活。不过你很可能会发现，自己的园艺同好们在起步阶段时水平还不如业余爱好者；他们在积累知识的过程中不知养死了多少株多年生植物。
“Because I’m English, people think I must be good at gardening,” Ms. Vowles, the garden’s co-president and treasurer, said with a strain of her native accent popping out like a crocus in frost. A Lotus gardener since 2000, she added that her chief bugbears were plants like red salvia that grew unexpectedly large and made a quantity of killing shade. As she spoke, I gazed up at her towering lemon-colored roses and thought that anything that perished in their perfumed shadow would be lucky.
“因为我是英格兰人，别人都以为我擅长园艺，”荷花园的联席主席兼出纳沃尔斯说。她说话时稍带有一点家乡口音，就像冰霜中的番红花一样明显。自2000年以来，她一直是荷花园的园丁。她还说自己最怕的就是红花鼠尾草(red salvia)这类植物，它们会长得出奇巨大，让其它植物死在它们的阴影里。她说话的时候，我抬头看着她种植的、高挑的柠檬色玫瑰，心里想，能够在这片芬芳的阴影里殒命也是一种幸运吧。
Another Lotus gardener, Barbara Beck, acquired her plot in 1990 not knowing “a weed from a plant,” she said. “I let everything sit there. I was told if I didn’t begin working my plot they would take it away from me.”
荷花园的另一位园丁芭芭拉·贝克(Babara Beck)在1990年时领到了自己的地块。当时，“我连杂草和植物都分不清楚，”她说，“我就让它们自生自灭。后来他们告诉我，如果我不打理自己的地块，他们就会把它收走了。”
Her son, who was then 8, asked for a rosebush. She obliged him by planting a French variety called Meidiland that provoked much mirth among her neighbors because her patch was shady. The rosebush not only survived for the next 24 years, she said, but continues to grow at a nose-thumbing rate that requires her to “cut feet off it” every summer.
她的儿子当时8岁，提出想要一棵蔷薇。她答应了，买来一株名为“玫兰”(Meidiland)的法国品种。这引起了邻居们的笑话，因为她的地块比较暗。而这棵植物不仅在接下来的24年里存活了下来，还始终在以惊人的速度茁壮成长，以至于她不得不每年夏天把它“砍掉一截”。
Ms. Beck has been an inspiration to other gardeners. I, for one, have planted two rosebushes in five years that died horrible black-spotted deaths. Now I am tempted to try again.
贝克的事迹激励了其他园丁。我也是其中之一。我在五年内种植过两株蔷薇，它们都死于可怕的黑斑病。现在，我还想再试一次。