Updated, 8:29 p.m. | The $7 billion deal that Citigroup agreed to strike with the Justice Department involves one of the largest cash penalties ever paid to settle a federal inquiry into a bank suspected of mortgage misdeeds.
花旗集团(Citigroup)同意与美国司法部(Justice Department)达成70亿美元（约合430亿元人民币）的协议，这是涉嫌有不当房屋抵押贷款行为的银行，为与联邦调查达成和解而支付的罚金中数额最大的一笔。
But another major component of the settlement has little to do with troubled mortgages. As part of the deal, Citigroup has also agreed to provide $180 million in financing to build affordable rental housing.
但协议的另一个主要组成部分却几乎与问题房屋抵押贷款无关。作为协议的一部分，花旗集团还同意提供1.8亿美元，为修建廉租房提供经费。
The unusual arrangement, which was outlined in the deal on Monday, underscores how difficult it remains for Citigroup to shed its rocky past and how federal prosecutors are getting creative in holding the nation’s big banks accountable for losses that crippled the global financial system in 2008.
周一的协议对这一不寻常的安排进行了概述。这一安排突显出花旗集团依然难以摆脱问题重重的过去，此外，为了让该国的大银行为2008年破坏全球金融体系的损失承担责任，联邦检察官在采取一些有新意的办法。
Like other settlements the federal government has signed with Wall Street, Citigroup’s deal also requires the bank to modify mortgages of struggling homeowners. But Citigroup’s mortgage business has shrunk appreciably since the financial crisis, and the bank doesn’t service enough troubled mortgages to satisfy the monetary settlement terms for homeowner relief. So the bank agreed to finance affordable rental housing in unspecified “high cost of living areas.”
同联邦政府与华尔街签订的其他协议一样，花旗集团的协议也要求该行缓解那些苦苦挣扎的房主的按揭压力。但自金融危机以来，花旗集团的房屋按揭贷款业务已明显缩水，而且接受该银行服务的问题房屋抵押贷款不足以满足房主救助的货币偿付条款。因此，该银行同意为未指明的“高生活成本地区”的廉租房提供资金。
Wall Street watchdog groups and housing advocates said the terms of the $7 billion settlement highlight how the federal government has fallen short in its effort to hold banks accountable, noting that neither Citigroup nor any of its executives have been criminally charged for the bank’s mortgage problems.
华尔街的监督机构和住房倡导者表示，这份70亿美元的协议的条款突出表明，联邦政府在让银行承担责任的行动中力度之弱。他们指出，花旗集团及其高管都未因该行的房屋抵押贷款问题受到刑事指控。
In announcing the deal on Monday, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said the hard-fought settlement did not absolve the bank or its employees from facing criminal charges. “The bank’s misconduct was egregious,” he said. “As a result of their assurances that toxic financial products were sound, Citigroup was able to expand its market share and increase profits.”
周一宣布该协议时，司法部长小埃里克·H·霍尔德(Eric H. Holder Jr.)表示，历经艰辛才达成的和解协议并不意味着该银行或其雇员不会面临刑事指控。“该银行的不当行为非常恶劣，”他说。“他们给有危害的金融产品提供担保，称它们是健康的，这样以来，花旗集团得以扩大市场份额，增加利润。”
The Justice Department said Citigroup routinely ignored warnings that a significant portion of the mortgages it was packaging and selling to investors in 2006 and 2007 had underwriting defects. In one internal email cited by prosecutors, a Citigroup trader wrote “went thru Diligence Reports and think that we should start praying … I would not be surprised if half of these loans went down.” But the bank securitized the loans anyway.
司法部称，花旗集团经常性地忽略相关警告。这些警告称，该银行2006年和2007年打包卖给消费者的很大一部分房屋抵押贷款有担保缺陷。在检察官提到的一封内部邮件中，花旗集团的一名交易员写道，“我看过尽职报告，觉得我们应该开始祈祷了……如果这些贷款中的一半下跌，我不会觉得奇怪。”但该银行还是将这些贷款证券化了。
The Justice Department said it was this type of evidence that enabled prosecutors to extract a $4 billion cash penalty from Citigroup — the largest payment of its kind. That money will go into the United States Treasury’s general fund and is not earmarked for any particular use.
司法部称，在这样的证据下，检方得以迫使花旗集团接受40亿美元的罚款——这是同类罚款中数额最大的一笔。这笔钱将放入美国财政部的一般基金，目前尚未指明有任何专门用途。
The deal also includes $2.5 billion in so-called soft dollars designated for the financing of rental housing, mortgage modifications, down payment assistance and donations to legal aid groups, among other measures intended to provide relief to consumers.
这项交易中还包括25亿的所谓的软美元，将用来资助租房、房屋抵押贷款调整、头期款协助、对法律援助组织的捐款，以及其他旨在减轻消费者负担的举措。
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s portion of the settlement — about $208 million — will reimburse creditors in three failed banks that owned large mortgage security portfolios — Citizens National Bank in Illinois, Strategic Capital Bank in Illinois and Colonial Bank in Alabama.
联邦存款保险公司（Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation，简称FDIC）在这笔资金中所占的份额——约2.08亿美元——将用来补偿三家已经倒闭的银行的债权人。这三家持有大量按揭证券组合的银行分别是：伊利诺伊州的公民国家银行(Citizens National Bank)和战略资本银行(Strategic Capital Bank)，以及阿拉巴马州的殖民地银行(Colonial Bank)。
State attorneys general in California, Illinois, Massachusetts, New York and Delaware will receive a total of $291 million. California, for example, will reimburse its two largest public pension funds for mortgage-related losses they suffered during the financial crisis.
加利福尼亚、伊利诺伊、马萨诸塞州、纽约和特拉华州的州检察长一共将收到2.91亿美元。例如，加州将利用这笔钱来补偿它最大的两个养老基金，以弥补它们在金融危机期间遭受的损失。
The payments to the states are tax-deductible, but the federal penalty is not.
给各州的资金可以免税，但交给联邦的罚款不行。
In a boon for Citigroup, the deal with the Justice Department forgoes any potential cases against the bank related to collateralized debt obligations, or C.D.O.s, which were often tied to mortgages. While Citi was a relatively small player in the mortgage securities market, it was a leader on Wall Street in C.D.O.s.
作为给花旗集团的一点甜头，与司法部的交易意味着所有针对它的与债务抵押债券（collateralized debt obligations，简称CDO）相关的案件都将被放弃。花旗在按揭抵押市场虽是一个规模相对较小的参与者，但却是华尔街CDO方面的领头羊。