The biographer Brian Kellow, whose last subject was Pauline Kael, writes in “Can I Go Now?” that even he had doubts about whether the Hollywood agent Sue Mengers would make a good subject. The idea of doing a book about her came from his agent. And even allowing for any prejudices an agent might have about how interesting agents are, it was still a stretch. Ms. Mengers may have been the most glam, powerful, status-conscious, star-snuggling Hollywood power broker of the 1970s, but both she and her way of doing business had gone the way of the dinosaurs by the end of that decade. Now she is Sue Who? to the world at large.
传记作家布赖恩·凯洛(Brian Kellow)上一本书的主人公是保利娜·凯尔(Pauline Kael)。连他自己都质疑自己新作《我可以挂电话了吗？》(Can I Go Now?)的主人公、好莱坞经纪人苏·门格斯(Sue Mengers)是不是一个很好的传记对象。撰写门格斯传记的想法来自凯洛的经纪人。就算经纪人们可能觉得自己的工作挺有意思的，这也有点勉强。门格斯是20世纪70年代好莱坞最迷人、最强大、最在意地位、最受明星喜爱的经纪人，但是随着那个年代的结束，她这个人和她的行事方法都已过气。现在，大部分人听到她的名字会问：她是谁？
Unlike Ms. Kael, who left a tremendous written legacy, Ms. Mengers (1932-2011) left no paper trail. She was known for deal-making, party-giving and wisecracking, and she brought her own special ruthlessness to all three. She also became exemplary for the hubris and lack of foresight that led her to divide the world into winners and losers — and that hit her hard once her early stable of winners (Ryan and Tatum O’Neal, Barbra Streisand, Dyan Cannon, Gene Hackman, Ali MacGraw, Candice Bergen, Peter Bogdanovich) either left her or stopped winning. She had so little interest in building a deep bench of future talent that she asked the producer then nurturing “the young Martin Scorsese, fresh out of U.C.L.A. film school”: “Why do you spend all this time on these guys? Why not steal someone else’s client?” (Actually, Mr. Scorsese studied at New York University.)
凯尔留下了大量书面记录，而门格斯(1932-2011)没有留下任何文字记录。她以擅长促成协议、举办派对和说俏皮话闻名，并把自己独特的冷酷融入其中。她也是那种典型的傲慢而缺乏远见的经纪人，认为世人只有成功者和失败者两种。早期那些成功的客户们（比如赖恩和塔特姆·奥尼尔[Ryan and Tatum O’Neal]、芭芭拉·史翠珊[Barbra Streisand]、戴安·坎农[Dyan Cannon]、吉恩·哈克曼[Gene Hackman]、阿里·麦格劳[Ali MacGraw]、坎迪丝·伯根[Candice Bergen]和彼得·波格丹诺维奇[Peter Bogdanovich]）离她而去或不再风光时，她就尝到了苦头。她对费心培养新人没有兴趣。当时一位制作人正在培养“刚从加利福尼亚大学洛杉矶分校电影学院毕业的年轻的马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)”。她对那位制作人说：“你为什么要浪费那么多时间在这些家伙身上？为什么不去抢其他客户呢？”（实际上，斯科塞斯是纽约大学[New York University]毕业的）。
So what did Mr. Kellow really have to work with? He says in his acknowledgments that he discovered what “Can I Go Now?” would be largely through the interviewing process. It turns out that an amazing number of the Hollywood players from the 1970s were still around to talk about Ms. Mengers’s cutthroat, baby-talking wiles. Some of the people we hear from are Polly Bergen, Tuesday Weld, Trini Lopez, Sherry Lansing, Boaty Boatwright, Jerry Weintraub, Rona Barrett and Tina Sinatra, whom Ms. Mengers would tease about her stepmother, Barbara Marx: “One date. Give me one date with your father, and Barbara will be history.” Their stories give his book a supply of wild anecdotes, although the overall biography is too bleak to be fun.
所以 ，这个人到底有什么可写的呢？凯洛在致谢词中说，他主要是在采访过程中弄清这本书要写什么。他意外地发现，20世纪70年代的很多好莱坞演员仍健在，愿意谈论门格斯残酷而甜蜜的花招，包括波莉·伯根(Polly Bergen)、塔斯黛·韦尔德(Tuesday Weld)、特里尼·洛佩斯(Trini Lopez)、谢里·兰辛(Sherry Lansing)、宝蒂·博特赖特(Boaty Boatwright)、杰里·温特劳布(Jerry Weintraub)、罗纳·巴雷特(Rona Barrett)和蒂娜·辛纳屈(Tina Sinatra)。门格斯曾这样对辛纳屈取笑她的继母芭芭拉·马克斯(Barbara Marx)：“只要一次。只要安排我跟你父亲约会一次，芭芭拉就会成为历史。”他们讲述的故事让这本书充满疯狂的轶事，不过整本传记太过乏味，没什么意思。
This is a real failure on the author’s part, since anyone with a screen can see exactly how Ms. Mengers looked and sounded. He first mentions on Page 2, and repeatedly returns to, Mike Wallace’s 1975 “60 Minutes” piece on Ms. Mengers. She was enormously proud of it, with good reason. It depicts a tricky, beguiling flirt who has Mr. Wallace just where she wants him, and whose power to coax others into doing her bidding is self-evident. This is a sly, glamorous blonde living in what she fully believed to be a man’s world, and making it spin to her own advantage. She couldn’t be less like the sometimes baby-talking, sometimes foul-mouthed climber whose allure never makes much sense in Mr. Kellow’s version.
这一点真是作者的失败，因为任何人都能在屏幕上清楚看到门格斯的音容笑貌。凯洛在传记的第2页（后来又多次）提到1975年迈克·华莱士(Mike Wallace)在《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目里采访门格斯的情景。门格斯一直引以为豪。这也是自然，因为那段视频展现了一个机敏、迷人、善于调情的女人，她处处牵着华莱士的鼻子走，她哄诱别人听从自己的能力尽显无遗。这是个狡猾迷人的金发女人，生活在一个她深信由男人主导的世界里，她让这个世界围着自己转。她完全就是一个通过时而甜言蜜语、时而满嘴脏话努力往上爬的人。在凯洛的描述中，她的诱惑力从来都让人难以理解。
“Can I Go Now?” — which takes its title from Ms. Mengers’s typically tender way of ending a phone conversation, and its subtitle, “The Life of Sue Mengers, Hollywood’s First Superagent,” from the misapprehension that there was no Lew Wasserman or Myron Selznick to precede her — is also poorly equipped to understand where her mix of gushiness and cruelty came from.
《我可以挂电话了吗？》的书名来自门格斯典型的结束电话的温柔方式，但是它的副标题《苏·门格斯：好莱坞第一位超级经纪人》(The Life of Sue Mengers, Hollywood’s First Superagent)则是一种误解，因为在她之前还有卢·沃瑟曼(Lew Wasserman)和迈伦·塞尔兹尼克(Myron Selznick)等超级经纪人。也正是因为这种误解，书中没有解释清楚她的装腔作势和残酷来自何处。
According to Mr. Kellow, her demanding mother (called “the Gorgon” by Ms. Mengers) and suicidal father, not to mention an early childhood in Hamburg, Germany, before the Nazi threat forced the family to emigrate to the United States in 1935, left Sue angry. And because of that anger, in Mr. Kellow’s version, “she was going to create the kind of life for herself that she wanted, and she was not about to apologize for the single-minded pursuit of it.” Fine. But there are people from far worse backgrounds who don’t refuse to mingle with the nonfamous, don’t make casually bigoted remarks and don’t wind up hating their clients. “I didn’t much like you anyway,” she told the actress Beverly D’Angelo after their brief business relationship was over.
根据凯洛的描述，母亲的严厉（门格斯说她是“蛇发女怪”）和父亲的自杀让苏很愤怒，更别提在德国汉堡度过的童年早期（1935年，纳粹的威胁迫使这家人移民到美国）。凯洛说，由于这种愤怒，“她要创造自己想要的那种生活，不会为自己执着追求那种生活而感到愧疚”。好吧。但是有很多境遇比她差得多的人并不介意与普通人打成一片，也不会随意做出狭隘的评价，更不会到最后和自己的客户反目成仇。她和女演员贝弗莉·丹杰洛(Beverly D’Angelo)短暂的合作关系结束后，她对后者说：“反正我本来就不怎么喜欢你。”
But the single most important and bizarre professional relationship Ms. Mengers had was with Barbra Streisand who, like so many key players in the Mengers story, was apparently ready and eager to talk about the past with Mr. Kellow. Although one of Ms. Mengers’s occasional lapses in judgment led her to decide initially that Ms. Streisand was going nowhere, she quickly realized her mistake and began a long process of cultivation. She would ultimately become such a Streisand loyalist that when Faye Dunaway — a client Ms. Mengers didn’t like and didn’t keep long — won an Oscar for “Network” in 1977, Ms. Mengers’s response was “the only movie star in the whole town is Barbra Streisand.”
但是门格斯最重要而奇怪的合作关系是和芭芭拉·史翠珊。和门格斯一生中的很多重要人物一样，史翠珊明显乐意和凯洛谈论她们的过往。虽然由于一时判断失误，门格斯最初认为史翠珊没什么前途，但是她很快意识到自己弄错了，开始对史翠珊进行长期培养。最后，她成了史翠珊的忠实支持者。1977年，费·唐娜薇(Faye Dunaway)凭借《电视台风云》(Network)获得奥斯卡奖时，门格斯说，“洛杉矶唯一的电影明星是芭芭拉·史翠珊。”唐娜薇曾是门格斯的客户，但门格斯不太喜欢她，她们的合作没有维持多久。
Ms. Mengers represented Elliott Gould, Ms. Streisand’s first husband, when he was at his most impossible; one of the book’s wildest stories comes from Kim Darby, John Wayne’s squeaky-clean co-star in the original “True Grit,” who saw an LSD-fueled Gould put his foot through a glass coffee table on one occasion and show up wearing a football helmet, his face covered with cotton balls, on another. Ms. Darby, who had been called “the Doris Day of the Counterculture,” was afraid of Mr. Gould — and she didn’t stay with Ms. Mengers for long.
在史翠珊的第一任丈夫埃利奥特·古尔德(Elliott Gould)最不得意的时候，门格斯做了他的经纪人。书中最疯狂的一个故事来自金姆·达比(Kim Darby)。有一次，她看见服用了LSD（一种半人工致幻剂——译注）的古尔德把脚伸到咖啡桌上，还有一次戴着橄榄球帽现身，脸上沾满棉球。达比曾和约翰·韦恩(John Wayne)联合主演原版《大地惊雷》(True Grit)。她品行完美，被称为“反文化时期的多丽丝·戴(Doris Day)”。她有点害怕古尔德。她和门格斯也没合作多久。
But Ms. Streisand did. Having parlayed her professional relationship with Mr. Gould into one with Ms. Streisand, Ms. Mengers milked the connection for everything it was worth — and more. The story of what went wrong is long, but it involves Ms. Mengers’s strange (and underexamined here) marriage to the Belgian filmmaker Jean-Claude Tramont, her exploitation of her friendship with Ms. Streisand to help him, and her shockingly ice-blooded response to Ms. Streisand’s objections. When they had to part ways professionally, she flatly told Ms. Streisand, “I won’t be your friend if I can’t be your agent.” It’s not hard to see why, decades later, Ms. Streisand still finds this hard to reconcile with the adoring fan and “sister” Ms. Mengers once claimed to be.
但是史翠珊跟门格斯合作了很长时间。门格斯成功地利用自己与古尔德的合作关系当上了史翠珊的经纪人。为了和史翠珊合作，门格斯不遗余力。她们关系恶化的原因很多，但主要是因为门格斯和比利时导演让-克劳德·特拉蒙(Jean-Claude Tramont)的奇怪婚姻（关于这段婚姻，这本书讲得不够）。为了帮助丈夫，门格斯不惜利用自己和史翠珊的友谊。当史翠珊表示异议时，她的反应惊人地冷酷。当她们的职业关系不得不终结时，她对史翠珊直言道，“如果我不能做你的经纪人，我也不会做你的朋友。”所以，不难理解，为什么几十年之后，史翠珊仍然很难原谅这位铁杆粉丝和“姐妹”（门格斯曾经这样相称）。
That’s the trouble with this oddly flat biography of such a colorful character: It presents so many irreconcilable aspects of Ms. Mengers’s character and then does so little to meld them into an intelligible portrait. For every part of it that raises questions about what made her tick, there is something fatuous enough to make the reader want to give up hope, like, “One of Sue’s favorite pastimes was reading each month’s issue of Vanity Fair.” The paragraph continues with hosannas about the magazine, ending with Ms. Mengers telling its editor, Graydon Carter, that, “It’s like Proust.” Not coincidentally, Mr. Carter was a producer of “I’ll Eat You Last,” the 2013 one-woman show about Ms. Mengers that starred Bette Midler and opened a year and a half after Ms. Mengers died.
所以，这本书的问题在于，关于这样一位多姿多彩的人物，传记却写得这么平淡：它展现了门格斯个性中很多不可调和的侧面，却没能把它们融合到一起。读者很想知道她的那些性格是怎样形成的，而书中还有一些非常愚蠢的内容，让读者简直失去了希望，比如，“苏最喜欢的消遣就是阅读每一期《名利场》(Vanity Fair)”。那段后半部分是对那本杂志的赞美之词，结尾处写道，门格斯对《名利场》主编格雷顿·卡特(Graydon Carter)说，“它就像普鲁斯特(Proust)的散文。”所以，2013年，在门格斯去世一年半之后，卡特推出了关于她的独角戏《最后我会吃了你》(I’ll Eat You Last)。那部戏由贝特·米德勒(Bette Midler)主演。
In the last years of her life she had a few loyal friends but had nearly vanished from public view: She smoked pot, watched television, ate and often refused to get out of bed. But posterity changes everything. It gives her a shot at the A-list again.
门格斯晚年有几位忠诚的朋友，但她几乎从公众视野中消失了：她吸大麻，看电视，暴饮暴食，经常不肯下床。但是后人改变了一切，让她再次跻身名流之列。