KHARTOUM, Sudan — This time, it was not the organizing by activists on Facebook and Twitter that made people take to the streets in such numbers. They did not need it. The anger was already widespread enough.
苏丹喀土穆——这一次，人们不是在Facebook和Twitter上的活动人士组织下走上街头的。不用谁来组织他们，怒火蔓延得已经足够广泛。
“The people want to bring down the regime!” and “No, no, to high prices!” young protesters shouted this week as they marched in Omdurman, Khartoum’s twin city across the Nile.
本周，年轻的抗议者们高呼口号，在喀土穆位于尼罗河对岸的临近城市恩图曼(Omdurman)示威游行。他们呼喊着，“人民要推翻这个政权！”和“拒绝高物价！”
Deadly protests have rocked several Sudanese cities since Sunday, when the government lifted subsidies on gasoline, nearly doubling the price in an increase that is bound to create a domino effect on other goods.
政府取消汽油补贴之后，价格几乎翻了一番，而这势必会造成多米诺骨牌效应，令其他商品价格出现上涨。自周日以来，由此引发的严重抗议活动已经席卷了苏丹的若干城市，并已造成人员死亡。
“The economic situation is just painful,” said one protester, Moyasser, 25, who did not want his full name used out of fear of government reprisals.
现年25岁的抗议者莫亚西尔(Moyasser)说，“经济形势非常困难。”他不想让自己的全名出现在报道中，因为担心遭到政府的报复。
The demonstrations broke out across greater Khartoum, with some leading to the destruction of public property like buses and gas stations. One witness saw at least six burned cars on Khartoum’s Africa Road; another saw protesters throw rocks at cars and block a road with burning tires and bricks.
整个大喀土穆地区都爆发了示威活动，其中一些示威活动中，公交车、加油站等公共财产遭到了破坏。一名目击者在喀土穆非洲路(Africa Road)上看到了至少六辆着火的小汽车。另一名目击者则看到示威者朝小汽车扔石头，并用燃烧的轮胎和砖头封锁了一条道路。
The government has responded forcefully. A statement by the authorities promised to act “with an iron fist” to “destructive actions.” Sudan’s police forces said that 29 people, including members of the police, had died in the violence, blaming “trained elements” and “rioters.”
政府部门已经做出强力回应。官方发布的声明承诺，将对“破坏活动”报以“铁拳”。苏丹警方表示，包括警务人员在内，已经有29人在骚乱中丧生，“训练有素的破坏分子”和“暴徒”应该对此负责。
But activists say that at least 100 are believed to have been killed, mostly by the government, with hospitals flooded. Security and police forces have used live ammunition as well as tear gas and batons to break up the protests.
但一些活动人士称，死者据信至少有100人，这些人大多死于政府之手，医院里已经人满为患。为了驱散抗议者，安全警察部队在使用催泪瓦斯和警棍之余，还曾使用实弹射击。
“I know two who were killed,” Moyasser said. “One was shot, and the other beaten to death.”
“我认识两个被杀死的人，”莫亚西尔说，“一个是中弹身亡，另一个被毒打致死。”
As the protests escalated, Internet services were shut down on Wednesday and early Thursday. Authorities said that “rioters” had attacked and destroyed equipment belonging to a local online provider, but activists say it was a deliberate act by the government to create a blackout on events in Sudan.
随着抗议活动的升级，互联网服务在周三和周四早些时候被关闭。当局称，“暴徒”袭击并捣毁了当地一家网络服务提供商的设备。但活动人士称，关闭互联网是苏丹政府有意为之，旨在封锁与事件相关的消息。
The lifting of gasoline subsidies was the latest step in the difficult economic adjustments Sudan has experienced since South Sudan became independent two years ago, taking with it nearly 75 percent of the oil revenue the two countries once shared. Inflation has reached nearly 40 percent, and the value of the Sudanese pound has spiraled downward.
自从南苏丹在两年前独立出去，并把原本由两国共享的石油收入抽走75%之后，苏丹政府一直在对经济进行艰难的调整，取消汽油补贴便是最新的一项举措。眼下，该国通货膨胀率已经接近40%，苏丹镑则急剧贬值。
“The removal of subsidies must be accompanied with widening the social safety net,” argued Abla el-Mahdi, an economist. “But the government has failed to compensate the poor through direct transfers and increasing the minimum wage.”
“取消补贴的同时，也必须拓宽社会保障覆盖面，”经济学家阿夫拉·马赫迪(Abla el-Mahdi)表示，“但政府未能通过直接转移支付和提高最低工资，对穷人做出补偿。”
Despite promises for assistance to the poor and an increase in the minimum wage, “there is little confidence in the government” she added.
她补充说，虽然政府承诺救济穷人并提高最低工资，“但人们对政府没什么信心”。
The Sudanese government, however, said it would continue with its economic reform policies.
尽管如此，苏丹政府依然表示，将继续推行自己的经济改革政策。
“A government that backs down from taking the right decision for the benefit of society is not a government worthy of the trust and support of the people,” Vice President Ali Osman Taha told a group of graduates on Wednesday.
“一个不敢做出对社会有益的正确抉择的政府，是不值得人民信任和支持的，”苏丹副总统阿里·奥斯曼·塔哈(Ali Osman Taha)周三对一群大学毕业生说。
Sudan’s political opposition has been quick to criticize the government.
苏丹的政治反对派毫不迟疑地对政府提出了批评。
“We are against the increase in fuel prices,” said Kamal Omer, of the Popular Congress Party. “This shows the failure of the ruling party.”
“我们反对提高燃料价格，”人民大会党(Popular Congress Party)的卡迈勒·奥马尔(Kamal Omer)说，“这突显了执政党的失败。”
Thirty-five activists belonging to various political parties have been arrested since the beginning of the protests, Mr. Omer said. He said that the current wave of protests represented “a revolution of the hungry.”
奥马尔称，从爆发抗议活动至今，已经有隶属于多个政党的35名活动人士被捕。他说当前的抗议浪潮是“饥饿者的一场革命”。
“This is the straw that broke the camel’s back,” Mr. Omer added.
奥马尔补充道，“这是压倒骆驼的最后一根稻草。”
Amjad Farid, 29, an activist with the Coalition of Sudanese Revolutionary Youth, warned that the protests would continue.
29岁的活动人士、苏丹革命青年联盟(Coalition of Sudanese Revolutionary Youth)成员阿姆贾德·法里德(Amjad Farid)警告说，抗议活动将会持续下去。
“After what happened, we cannot back down,” he said. “The blood of Sudanese is not cheap.”
“在所有这一切发生之后，我们不能退让，”他说，“苏丹人的鲜血不能白流。”
Attempts by Sudanese dissidents in 2011 and last year to organize and set off an Arab Spring-like revolution in Sudan failed. But popular uprisings in 1964 and 1985 succeeded in bringing down military governments.
过去两年间，苏丹的异见人士曾试图在这个国家组织和掀起一场类似“阿拉伯之春”的革命，结果却以失败告终。但在1964年和1985年，人民起义曾两度成功推翻军政府。
Abdel-Latif el-Bouni, a columnist, was cautious to not describe the current events as a revolution.
专栏作家阿卜杜勒-拉蒂夫·布尼(Abdel-Latif el-Bouni)十分谨慎地避免把当前的事件描绘成一场革命。
“This was all expected, but thus far, it’s been a reaction,” he said. “Anger is not enough for change.”
“人们都料到了会发生这种事。但迄今为止，它不过是苏丹人做出的愤怒反应，”他说，“而愤怒不足以带来改变。”
But, he added, “if geared into political momentum, it has the potential to become a revolution.”
但他补充说，“假如积蓄起了政治力量，那它就有可能变成一场革命。”
Five days of protests have taken an economic toll on the city of Omdurman as well. In the usually crowded Al-Shuhada Square, an intersection for buses, shops were closed or only partly open.
持续了五天的抗议活动也给恩图曼造成了经济损失。舒哈达广场(Al-Shuhada Square)是很多公交车的中转站，以往总是人头攒动，但现在商店不是闭门歇业就是处于半开放状态。
Salih Ibrahim, 47, a conductor, said that while 250 drivers of minivans used for public transportation usually showed up for work, “only 30 showed up.”
47岁的售票员萨利赫·易卜拉欣(Salih Ibrahim)称，平日里驾驶面包车提供公共交通服务的250位司机中，“只有30位露了面。”
Many of the drivers, Mr. Ibrahim said, feared that protesters would attack their vans. Others simply could not find gasoline, as a number of gas stations in Omdurman had been burned down.
易卜拉欣说，很多司机都害怕抗议者袭击他们的车辆。还有一些人则是因为根本弄不到汽油，因为恩图曼的许多加油站都烧毁了。
“The guys who came bought gasoline from the black market, not for 21 pounds, but 30 pounds,” Mr. Ibrahim said. “So they’re charging passengers up to three pounds,” or about 68 cents, double the normal price.
“来了的这些伙计都是从黑市上买的汽油，价格不是21镑，而是30镑，”易卜拉欣说，“所以他们把乘客的票价提高到了3镑”，合68美分（约合4元人民币），比正常价格高出一倍。
“I have no choice, I need to get home,” said Abdel-Munim Ismail, 37, who got on a van.
现年37岁的阿卜杜勒-穆奈姆·伊斯梅尔(Abdel-Munim Ismail)登上了一辆面包车。他说，“我没的选，我得回家呀。”