KHARTOUM, Sudan — Sudan on Tuesday backed away from its assertion that it had held discussions with South Sudan about creating a joint force to safeguard oil fields in the South, the economic lifeblood for both countries that is being threatened by the fighting in South Sudan.
苏丹喀土穆——周二，苏丹否认了己方的声明，该声明称，苏丹已和南苏丹就创建一支联合部队保护南苏丹油田进行了磋商。南苏丹的油田是两国的经济命脉，目前受到了南苏丹内战的威胁。
“It is not true that during the visit of the president and his delegation to Juba, discussions were held on creating a joint force to protect oil fields in South Sudan,” Sudan’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement, referring to a visit to South Sudan’s capital by Sudan’s president, Omar Hassan al-Bashir, and other top government officials the day before.
苏丹外交部在一则声明中说，“总统和他率领的代表团出访朱巴期间，双方并未就创建一支联合部队来保护南苏丹油田举行磋商。”他指的是苏丹总统奥马尔·哈桑·巴希尔(Omar Hassan al-Bashir)和其他政府高官在前天出访南苏丹首都一事。
On Monday, Sudan’s foreign minister, Ali Ahmed Karti, told reporters upon his return from Juba, “Sudan and South Sudan are in consultations about the deployment of a mixed force to protect the oil fields in the South.”
本周一，苏丹外交部长阿里·艾哈迈德·卡蒂( Ali Ahmed Karti)从朱巴回国后对记者表示，“苏丹和南苏丹正在就部署混合部队保护南苏丹油田一事进行磋商。”
The foreign minister’s announcement was a surprising turn given the decades of war and animosity between the people of what is now South Sudan and the Sudanese government in Khartoum. It seemed to reflect the degree to which both nations rely on oil from the South to keep their economies afloat.
考虑到南苏丹民众和喀土穆苏丹政府之间长达数十年的战争和敌意，苏丹外长的这一说法是一个出人意料的转折。它似乎反映了两国是多么依赖南苏丹石油来维系本国的经济运行。
But the suggestion of sending Sudanese troops to help the government of South Sudan while it is descending into civil war quickly provoked criticism.
不过，在南苏丹陷入内战时，派遣苏丹部队对南苏丹政府施以援手的建议迅速引发了批评。
“It showed that Sudan is on one side against the other,” said a Sudanese columnist, Faisal Mohammad Salih. “It is in Sudan’s strategic interest to see a settlement in South Sudan and build trust with all sides, especially if you don’t know what the outcome of the talks will be.”
“这一建议表明苏丹是支持一方，反对另一方的，”苏丹专栏作家费萨尔·穆罕默德·萨利赫(Faisal Mohammad Salih)说，“符合苏丹战略利益的做法是促成南苏丹各方和解并与各方构建信任，尤其是在你不知道谈判结果的时候。”
The ministry’s statement on Tuesday reiterated another one of the announcements made the day before: that 900 Sudanese technicians were being sent to the oil-rich areas of South Sudan to help run the oil fields, at the request of the South Sudanese government and under its administration.
外交部周二的声明还重申了前一天发布的一项公告：应南苏丹政府请求，900名苏丹技术人员正被派往南苏丹石油丰富的地区，他们将在南苏丹政府的管理下协助经营油田。
Conflict broke out in South Sudan last month when its president, Salva Kiir, accused his former vice president, Riek Machar, of plotting a coup against him, an allegation that Mr. Machar has denied. Mr. Machar has since then fled into the bush and is leading a rebellion against Mr. Kiir.
上月，南苏丹现任总统萨尔瓦·基尔(Salva Kiir)指责前副总统里克·马沙尔(Riek Machar)密谋对自己发动政变，冲突由此爆发。马沙尔否认了这一说法，随即逃入丛林地区，现在正领导着反抗基尔的叛乱。
The conflict has killed well over 1,000 people, has displaced around 200,000 and has disrupted oil production in South Sudan, as many foreign oil company workers have been evacuated. South Sudan’s oil runs northward through Sudan to be exported, for a fee.
这场冲突已导致超过1000人死亡，大约20万人流离失所，还让南苏丹的石油生产被迫中断，原因是许多外国石油公司的工人已被撤离。南苏丹的石油需要北运出口，其间会途经苏丹，并需向苏丹缴纳费用。
The opposing sides in the South Sudanese conflict are in talks in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa.
南苏丹冲突中的对立各方正在埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴举行谈判。
Before Mr. Karti’s statement, Sudan’s official position on the fighting in South Sudan had been to support regional efforts to bring both sides to the negotiating table. Uganda has threatened to intervene militarily against the rebels if no cease-fire is reached between the two sides.
卡蒂发表前述声明之前，苏丹对南苏丹内战的官方立场是支持地区努力，促成双方谈判。乌干达威胁称，如果双方不达成停火协议，乌干达将进行军事干预，打击叛乱分子。