HONG KONG — As investors fret about the budget standoff in the United States and slowing growth in Asia, the confidence of the world’s superrich to splurge on top gems and works of art appears intact, judging by a string of Sotheby’s auctions in Hong Kong in the past five days.
香港——从苏富比拍卖行(Sotheby’s)过去5天在香港的一连串拍卖来看，当投资者们为美国的预算僵局以及亚洲的经济增长放缓苦恼时，全球超级富豪在顶级宝石和艺术品上挥霍钱财的信心似乎却完好无损。
One of the highlights — a white diamond the size of a ripe plum, weighing 118.28 carats — went for 212 million Hong Kong dollars, or $27.3 million, on Monday. Including fees, the price came to 238.68 million Hong Kong dollars, the highest price ever paid for a white diamond at an auction.
其中一个亮点是一颗重达118.28克拉、成熟李子一般大小的白色钻石。本周一，它以2.12亿港元（约合人民币1.67亿元）的价格落槌。加上佣金后成交价高达2.3868亿港元，刷新了白钻拍卖世界纪录。
The hammer price was at the lower end of the preauction estimate, and a 7.59-carat blue diamond, estimated at $19 million, failed to sell. Still, the jewelry auction, and Sotheby’s sales of art, watches, ceramics and fine wines, showed strong demand, with many lots beating presale estimates or setting new auction records.
这颗白钻的落槌价在拍前估价范围的低端，一颗估价1900万美元的7.59克拉蓝色钻石还流拍了。然而这次珠宝拍卖以及苏富比艺术品、钟表、陶瓷与高端葡萄酒的销售额还是体现了需求的强劲，很多拍品的成交价都超过预估，或是刷新了拍卖纪录。
“There is a slowdown happening in Asia’s economies,” said Quek Chin Yeow, deputy chairman of Sotheby’s in Asia, “but at this level of collecting, there is an echelon of buyers who are still very wealthy and looking to add to their collections.” The mood at the sales, he said, was buoyant and underlined the generally strong appetite for top works of art and other items.
苏富比亚洲区副主席郭进耀(Quek Chin Yeow)说：“亚洲经济的增长在放缓，但在这个级别的收藏中，还是存在一个非常富有的买家阶层的，他们想要充实自己的收藏。”他说，拍卖会上的气氛很热闹，总体上显示出对顶级艺术品及其他拍品的强烈购买欲。
A 2001 painting by the Chinese artist Zeng Fanzhi, “The Last Supper,” sold for 180.4 million Hong Kong dollars, including fees, on Saturday, the most ever paid for the work of a contemporary Asian artist at auction. On Monday, a work by Zhang Daqian sold for 34.84 million dollars, nearly seven times the presale estimate, and a sale of contemporary ink paintings on Saturday fetched 25.4 million dollars, nearly four times what Sotheby’s had expected. On Tuesday, the last day of the auction series, a small white-and-blue porcelain Chinese bowl from the 15th century sold for 141 million dollars, well above the presale estimate of 80 million.
上周六，中国画家曾梵志的2001年画作《最后的晚餐》以1.804亿港元的价格（含佣金）成交，刷新了亚洲当代艺术家作品的拍卖纪录。本周一，张大千的一幅作品以3484万港元的价格售出，是估价的近7倍，而上周六的一场当代水墨画拍卖取得了2540万港元的成交额，是苏富比此前预期的将近4倍。本周二，即本次系列拍卖的最后一天，一件15世纪的中国青花瓷小碗以1.41亿港元成交，大大超出8000万的估价。
In total, the Sotheby’s sales this month topped the preauction estimate of more than 2.8 billion Hong Kong dollars and underscored how important Hong Kong has become as a venue for auctions of this kind.
苏富比本月的总销售额高出预估逾28亿港元，彰显了香港已成为这一类拍卖的一个重镇。
Sotheby’s and Christie’s twice-yearly auctions in the city have gained in importance over the past decade, as increasingly affluent Asian buyers have joined their peers from other parts of the world in the bidding for often ultra-high-end items. The latest auction series “puts Hong Kong among the strongest auction markets in the world,” alongside London and New York, said Nazy Vassegh, chief executive of Masterpiece London, an international art, antiques and design fair that takes place in the British capital every June. “It is testament to the strength of the market here.”
过去10年中，随着日益富裕的亚洲买家跟世界各地的其他买家一起，争夺着往往属超高端的拍品，苏富比和佳士得每年在香港举办两次的拍卖季已经变得越来越重要。最近的这次拍卖会“让香港跻身全球走势最强劲的拍卖市场之列”，和伦敦与纽约并驾齐驱，“伦敦大师杰作展”(Masterpiece London)首席执行官纳齐·瓦森(Nazy Vassegh)说。“它证明了这里的市场实力。”“伦敦大师杰作展”是一个国际艺术品、古董和设计博览会，每年6月在伦敦举办。
Asian collectors, she said, are especially active buyers of Asian art and antiques, but they are also diversifying into other categories, like modern masters and blue-chip contemporary art from around the world. “People at the top end of the market are after masterworks and are willing to bid aggressively for them,” Ms. Vassegh said.
她说，亚洲收藏家在购买亚洲艺术品和古董时尤其活跃，但他们也会参与其他类别的竞拍，比如来自世界各地的现代艺术大师作品和顶尖的当代艺术品。“这个市场的高端买主追逐的是大师杰作，他们愿意为这些作品开出高价，”瓦森说。
Similarly, the money spent by Asian buyers at Sotheby’s gem and jewelry sales has soared in recent years, said Mr. Quek, who auctioned the giant white diamond and other items on Monday. Hong Kong has pulled up “alongside Geneva and New York” as a center for high-end jewelry auctions in the past few years, thanks to demand from buyers all over the region, he said.
郭进耀说，最近几年亚洲买主在苏富比购买宝石和珠宝的支出同样出现了飙升。本周一那颗巨大白钻和其他拍品的拍卖就是由他执槌的。过去几年中，香港“和日内瓦和纽约一起”成为的高端珠宝拍卖中心，他说这都要归功于该地区买家的旺盛需求。
The sale of the white diamond “proves we can sell major diamonds in Hong Kong,” he said, despite the failure of the blue diamond to achieve its reserve price.
他说白钻的成交“证明我们可以在香港销售名钻”，尽管那颗蓝钻未能达到保留价。
Sotheby’s said nine of the bidders for the 10 most expensive lots sold at the event were “Asian private” buyers. It listed the 10th as “anonymous.”
苏富比表示，本次拍卖会最昂贵的10件拍品中，有9件都被“亚洲私人买主”购得。第10件的买主被其列为“匿名人士”。