SHANGHAI — Sotheby’s said Tuesday that an ancient calligraphy scroll the auction house sold in September for $8.2 million was authentic, despite recent claims by a group of Chinese art historians who insisted it was likely a 19th-century reproduction.
上海——苏富比拍卖行(Sotheby's)周二表示，它们去年9月以820万美元（约合4953万元人民币）卖出的一件古代书法作品是真迹，虽然一些中国艺术史家最近宣称，它很可能是一件19世纪的复制品。
In a 14-page report, published in Chinese, Sotheby’s said it had found no evidence that the work, Gong Fu Tie, by the Song Dynasty poet Su Shi, was a forgery. The piece has long been considered one of the greatest works of calligraphy.
苏富比在以中文发表的14页报告中说，它没有找到任何能说明前述作品是赝品的证据，这件作品名为《功甫帖》，出于宋代诗人苏轼之手。这张法帖一直被认为是最伟大的书法作品之一。
In a statement, Sotheby’s said it “firmly stands by” the piece as a work produced by Su Shi.
苏富比在声明中说，它“坚持认为”这幅作品出自苏轼之手。
“We have published a detailed and comprehensive analysis rebutting each of the issues raised about the authenticity of the work,” the auction house said in a statement. “This report demonstrates that the brushwork of The Gong Fu Tie Calligraphy is inconsistent with that of a late copy or tracing as was alleged and is of such high quality that it could only have been created by a masterly hand using a soft brush.
“我们发布了一份详细而全面的分析，对质疑这幅作品真实性的每条理由进行了反驳，”拍卖行在一份声明中说。“这份报告显示，《功甫帖》的笔墨并不像人们所说的那样类似于近代的仿品或拓本，而且它质量很高，只可能是大师用毛笔写成的。”
Furthermore, we have established that both the seals and colophon are genuine, serving as further proof that the piece was created by Su Shi.”
“此外，我们已经确定，印章和款识都是真的，这进一步证明该作品出自苏轼之手。”
The forgery allegations came just months after the scroll had been sold at a New York auction to Liu Yiqian, a wealthy Shanghai businessman and collector. Mr. Liu, who planned to display it in his private museum in Shanghai, said that in preparation for viewing, he had allowed it to be examined by a group of art historians affiliated with the state-run Shanghai Museum.
上海富商、收藏家刘益谦在纽约的一次拍卖会中拍下了该书法作品，短短几个月之后就出现了伪造指控。刘益谦计划在他位于上海的私人博物馆里展示这幅作品。他表示，筹备展览期间，他让国立的上海博物馆的一些艺术史家对作品进行了检验。
In interviews with various media outlets in China last month, Mr. Liu said he was surprised by the findings of the Chinese historians but also skeptical of them. He had said he would wait for Sotheby’s and independent experts to review the case.
上个月接受中国各媒体机构采访时，刘益谦表示，这些中国历史学家的研究结果既让他感到震惊，又让他抱有怀疑。他之前表示，他会等待苏富比专家及独立专家对作品的检验结果。
The Shanghai historians, who have declined requests to be interviewed, argued that the scroll was likely to have been created between 1820 and 1871 by tracing a stone carving, and not the original calligraphy scroll, which had been produced about a thousand years ago.
上海的这些历史学家拒绝了采访请求，他们认为该作品很可能是在1820年至1871年间根据石刻钩描的，并不是历史约有1000年的原件。
If the work were deemed a forgery it would be a major setback for Sotheby’s, which is expanding in China and promoting its high standard of expertise in a fast-growing auction market here that has been plagued by fakes.
如果这件作品被认定为伪作，此事将会是苏富比遭遇的重大挫折。苏富比正在拓展中国市场，在这个快速发展却饱受赝品困扰的拍卖市场宣传该公司的专业高水准。