Like a number of other potential home buyers, Martin Davis, chief executive of one of the largest fund managers in Scotland, is waiting to assess the impact of the impending independence vote before committing to the residential market.
马丁·戴维斯(Martin Davis)执掌着苏格兰最大的基金管理公司之一，他和许多潜在购房者一样，在出手住房市场之前，想先观望一下即将到来的独立公投所造成的影响。
Mr. Davis, of Kames Capital, moved to Edinburgh a year ago from southeast England but is still renting. “I’ll wait until the vote and see how things look afterward,” he said. “There are others in the same situation.”
就职于Kames Capital的戴维斯一年前从英格兰东南部搬到了爱丁堡(Edinburgh)，但是目前仍在租房住。“我会等着公投结果，看看公投之后的形势会怎样，”他说，“还有一些人的情况也跟我一样。”
Uncertainty surrounding the Sept. 18 referendum has given pause to those considering investing in midrange to higher-end residential and commercial property. Many fear that a yes vote would create policy uncertainty and threaten the country’s nascent housing recovery.
围绕9月18日独立公投的不确定因素，使有意投资中高端住宅和商业地产的人士迟疑不前。许多人担忧，如果公投的结果是赞成独立，那么政策就会出现不确定性，进而威胁苏格兰的房市复苏苗头。
Referendum jitters notwithstanding, the Scottish property market, like that of England, has been improving, driven by the steady economic rebound, low interest rates from the Bank of England and a British program to support home buyers, called Help to Buy, which focuses on first-time buyers but has had a ripple effect.
虽然公投冲击波已经引起了高度戒备，但是苏格兰的房产市场和英格兰一样，一直在改善。这是因为经济稳步回暖，英格兰银行(Bank of England)利率较低，而且英国实行了一个支持购房者的项目，称为“购房援助计划”(Help to Buy)。该项目面向的是首次购房的买家，但已引发出了连锁反应。
“It’s taken awhile, but last year the market bounced back,” said Hugh Welsh, head of data at Registers of Scotland, the official land and property registry.
“虽然花费了一段时间，但是房市去年还是复苏了。”苏格兰官方的土地与房产登记机构——苏格兰注册处(Registers of Scotland)的数据负责人休·韦尔什(Hugh Welsh)说。
Between 2004 and 2014, the average house price in Scotland rose 37 percent, slightly less than the British average, to 157,476 pounds, or about $260,000, according to Registers of Scotland. The average price now is slightly more than it was at the 2007 peak, and sales volumes are also regaining precrisis levels.
根据苏格兰注册处的数据，2004年到2014年，苏格兰的房屋均价上涨了37%（略低于英国平均水平），达到了157476英镑，约合26万美元（约合人民币156.4万元）。目前的均价稍高于2007年的峰值，销售量也在向危机前的水平恢复。
And data released last month showed the first annual increase in new home completions — for the year to March — since 2007-8. But the number of houses that sold for more than £500,000, which often attract English and international buyers as well as wealthy Scots, has yet to approach 2007 levels.
上个月发布的数据显示，今年1至3月，新落成的住宅数量相比上一年出现了增长，这是自2007至2008年度以来的头一遭。但是售价高于50万英镑（约合人民币497万元）的住房数量还没有达到2007年的水平。此类住房往往吸引着英格兰和海外购房者，以及富有的苏格兰人。
In the last decade, the largest price increase was in Aberdeen, up 99 percent, a benefit of its thriving energy industry. Prices in Edinburgh increased 29 percent; Dundee, 52 percent; and Glasgow, 10 percent. Parts of Glasgow have been regenerated, notably along the Clyde River, but the mixed urban environment and varied incomes of its approximately 600,000 residents, which make it the largest city in Scotland, have hindered property price growth.
近十年来，房价涨幅最大的地方在阿伯丁(Aberdeen)，涨幅高达99%，这得归功于当地能源业的兴盛。爱丁堡、邓迪(Dundee)、格拉斯哥(Glasgow)的房价涨幅分别为29%、52%、10%。格拉斯哥已有部分地区经过重建，尤其是克莱德河(Clyde River)沿岸，但是多元化的都市环境、参差不齐的居民收入水平阻碍了其房价的上涨。格拉斯哥大约有60万居民，是苏格兰最大的城市。
In addition to large country estates and Aberdeen, the main focus for English and international property investors has been Edinburgh. The lure of the Scottish capital has been bolstered by its financial services and by prestigious universities and private schools, which in turn support quality restaurants, bars and hotels that boast some of the highest occupancy rates in Britain.
除了大型乡村庄园和阿伯丁外，英格兰和国际房产投资者所关注的主要焦点一直在爱丁堡。苏格兰首府的魅力因其金融服务和久负盛名的大学及私立学校而得到进一步提升，这反过来又支撑了优质餐厅、酒吧和酒店的发展。苏格兰酒店的入住率在英国是数一数二的。
Much has changed for a city whose seamier side was chronicled in 1990s novels such as “Trainspotting,” by Irvine Welsh, and the early books in Ian Rankin’s Inspector Rebus series. On a recent afternoon, the central George Street and Royal Mile were buzzing with tourists and thespians keen to shine at the city’s famous arts, media and fringe festivals.
爱丁堡的阴暗面曾被写入20世纪90年代的一些小说，比如欧文·威尔许(Irvine Welsh)的《猜火车》(Trainspotting)、伊恩·蓝钦(Ian Rankin)的早期著作《雷博思探长》系列(Inspector Rebus series)。正是这样一座城市，其面貌已经发生了许多改变。在最近一天的下午，市中心的乔治街(George Street)和皇家一英里大道(Royal Mile)上，到处都是游客和热衷于在爱丁堡著名的艺术、媒体和边缘艺术节上一展风采的戏剧演员。
Edinburgh is Scotland’s largest private rental market, and supply is limited. This past spring, the average rent for a two-bedroom apartment was £785 a month, up 6.8 percent from the previous year, according to Lettingweb.com. By the end of the first quarter, the average purchase price of apartments had increased 3.4 percent, to £180,000.
爱丁堡是苏格兰最大的私人租赁市场，而供应量却是有限的。今年春季，两居室公寓的平均租金是每月785英镑（约合人民币7796元），相比前一年上涨了6.8%，这组数据来自租房网站Lettingweb.com。到第一季度末，公寓的平均售价已增长了3.4%，达到18万英镑（约合人民币179万元）。
“For me, the Edinburgh market is very attractive,” said Mr. Davis of Kames, which has £52 billion under management. “You get more for your money than in the southeast, it’s not as volatile or frothy at the top end, and the overall returns are good.”
“对我而言，爱丁堡的房产市场非常有吸引力，”Kames的戴维斯表示。该机构管理着520亿英镑（约合人民币5164亿元）的基金。“你花同样的钱，能得到比在英格兰东南地区更好的结果，高端市场的环境不像那边那么不稳定或充满泡沫，而且总体回报率也不错。”
Despite positive data at the start of the year, agents say sales and rental activity in most of Scotland have been sluggish this summer. There is usually a seasonal slowdown, but Sam Paulo, a director at the Coulters property office near the Georgian-era Royal Circus in Edinburgh, said that activity in the middle and top ends of the market had petered out ahead of the independence vote.
尽管年初的数据喜人，但经纪人表示，苏格兰大部分地区今年夏季的销售和租赁活动较为迟滞。虽然房市出现季节性放缓是正常现象，但是就职于房地产公司Coulters的萨姆·保罗(Sam Paulo)表示，随着独立公投进入倒计时，中高端市场的交易活动已经渐渐消失。保罗是Coulters公司一家位于乔治风格的Royal Circus附近的办事处的负责人。
“This is the biggest political event here in hundreds of years, so it’s natural that people will dig in their heels and wait and see,” he said. If independence is rejected, he expects that pent-up demand will bring a sales spike through the winter and into next spring.
“这是几百年来本地发生的最重大的政治事件，人们自然想要原地观望。”他说。如果投票结果是反对独立，那么他预计，压抑已久的市场需求将使销售高峰持续整个冬季，并一直延续到来年春季。
If, however, voters opt to go solo, “we’d expect two years of uncertainty and a slow market,” Mr. Paulo said, as questions about currency, interest rates, pensions, European Union membership and tax policy would have to be settled.
但是，如果投票结果是赞成独立，“那么我们预计，不确定性和迟缓的市场活动将持续两年。”保罗说，因为有关货币、利率、养老金、加入欧盟和税收政策的问题都需要解决。
Some Scots fear such uncertainty might encourage large financial services firms to relocate, unsettling the property market further. In addition to the state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland, Britain’s largest bank and a major employer at its giant campus near the airport, Edinburgh is also home to large asset managers such as Aberdeen Asset Management, Baillie Gifford, Kames, Scottish Widows and Standard Life.
有些苏格兰人担心，这样的不确定性或许会促使大型金融服务公司迁走，从而进一步扰乱楼市。苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)是英国最大的银行和一大雇主，在机场附近有一个巨大的办公场地。除了苏格兰皇家银行以外，爱丁堡还不乏大型基金管理公司，比如安本资产管理(Aberdeen Asset Management)、贝里·吉福特(Baillie Gifford)、Kames、苏格兰寡妇(Scottish Widows)、标准人寿(Standard Life)。
Large international employers are reluctant to comment publicly on plans for the post-referendum future. One asset manager, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter, said his company would register its funds outside Edinburgh if voters approved independence. It might also relocate personnel if the vote meant the company was unable to hire the caliber of international staff that it can attract now, he added.
大型跨国公司都不愿意就其公投以后的打算发表公开评论。由于涉及敏感事件，一名基金管理者以不透露姓名为条件接受了采访。他表示，如果投票者支持独立，那么他的公司就会在爱丁堡以外的地方注册基金。他还说，如果投票的结果意味着，公司将无法招募其目前还能够吸引到的国际人才，那么公司或许还会调整人员部署。
That fear of uncertainty is shared by a number of executives, including the so-called weekly boarders, who fly into the Scottish capital for the workweek and return to homes elsewhere on weekends.
不少高管都对未来的不确定性心存担忧，包括那些所谓的“寄宿者”，他们在工作日坐飞机飞往苏格兰首府，周末返回别处的住所。
Even in the event that Scotland remains part of Britain, there still are uncertainties about pending legislation on land ownership and the possibility that taxes on valuable homes might increase.
就算苏格兰以后依然是英国的一部分，不确定性依然存在：有关土地所有权的法律尚未出台，而高价住宅的税费也有可能会上升。
In Scotland, a few owners hold large tracts of land, such as Queen Elizabeth’s 50,000-acre Balmoral estate and the estates of the Danish billionaire Anders Holch Povlsen, which include the 43,000-acre Glenfeshie estate in Inverness-shire. During the 1990s and 2000s, such estates and their accompanying sports of red deer stalking, grouse shooting and salmon fishing attracted international buyers, notably from England and Scandinavia.
在苏格兰，部分有产者拥有大片土地，比如伊丽莎白女王拥有的5万英亩（约合2.02公顷）的巴尔莫勒尔庄园(Balmoral estate)，以及丹麦亿万富豪安德斯·霍尔希·波维森(Anders Holch Povlsen)的房产，其中包括位于因弗内斯郡(Inverness-shire)的4.3万英亩（约合1.74公顷）的格伦菲斯庄园(Glenfeshie estate)。20世纪90年代至21世纪初，这些房产及与之相伴的运动——猎马鹿、打松鸡、钓鲑鱼——吸引了国际购房者，尤其是来自英格兰和斯堪的纳维亚的买家。
This concentration has led to calls for land reform from both nationalists, who control Scottish Parliament, and the Labour Party, which has the most Scottish members of Parliament in Westminster.
这种土地集中的现象，使民族主义者和工党一致呼吁开展土地改革。民族主义者把持着苏格兰议会，而在英国议会，工党议员中的苏格兰人也最多。
In May, a land reform review group commissioned by the Scottish Parliament recommended changes to the tax system, including a ceiling on privately held land and a large increase in community land ownership.
今年5月，苏格兰议会委任的一个土地改革评审组建议，要改变税收体系，设置私有土地的上限，大幅扩大社区土地所有权。
The Scottish government has said it will introduce a land reform bill by 2016 to focus on a “fairer, wider and more equitable distribution of land” and “improving communities’ ability to buy land.” It also plans new rules on crofting, a Scottish system of communal farming on rented land, often part of a large estate.
苏格兰政府已表示，将在2016年前提出土地改革法案，致力于确保“更公平、更广泛、更公正的土地分配”，并且“增强社区购买土地的能力。”苏格兰政府还打算制定新的小农场耕作(crofting)法规。小农场耕作是苏格兰的一种集体耕作制度，农民耕种的土地是租来的，而且往往是一片大庄园的一部分。
The full powers of independence “would provide more scope to tackle issues of land and infrastructure for housing in a more coordinated way,” the Scottish housing minister, Margaret Burgess, said in a written statement, “with greater control of taxation and funding.”
苏格兰独立所带来的完全权力，“将为苏格兰提供更大施展空间，能够更有力地控制税收和资金，从而更加协调地处理土地和住房基础设施问题，”苏格兰住房部部长玛格丽特·伯吉斯(Margaret Burgess)在一份书面声明中如此表示。
But as Mr. Davis of Kames said, “There’s a danger that land reform or higher taxes could damage Scotland’s competitiveness and drive potential buyers south.”
但是，正如Kames的戴维斯所说，“实行土地改革或提高税费是有风险的，这样做可能会破坏苏格兰的竞争力，使潜在购房者向南转移。”
John Coleman, a partner at the rural property specialist Smiths Gore in Edinburgh, said, “Land reform is a big issue — as is tax.” Even for the ultrawealthy, there has been too much uncertainty to reignite sales activity.
约翰·科尔曼(John Coleman)是专注于农村产权服务的Smiths Gore公司的合伙人，他说：“土地改革是个大问题——税制也是。”即使对于超级富豪而言，不确定因素也太多了，难以重新开展销售活动。
“We won’t see 2006 to 2007 again — at least not for a while,” Mr. Coleman said. “We’re not sure what will be announced, whether there will be ownership restrictions or even whether retroactive policies will be introduced. A lot of foreign buyers don’t want this uncertainty.”
“2006年至2007年的黄金时期不会再来了——至少在短期内不会再来。”科尔曼说，“我们也不确定会有什么消息公布出来，不知道会不会限制所有权，甚至实行具有追溯效力的政策。很多外国购房者不想看到这种不明朗的局势。”
If there is a yes vote, overhauls of land policies would be put on the back burner, he said, as the administration focuses on immediate political and fiscal questions.
他说，如果苏格兰人对独立投了赞成票，那么土地政策的全面修订将被搁置，因为当局需要集中精力处理那些急迫的政治和财政问题。