Peter Blake has an American employer, the oil giant Chevron, and his work is global. It is his job to pull together and dispatch billions of dollars’ worth of sophisticated undersea equipment needed for oil and natural gas fields in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore from Angola, the Republic of Congo, Indonesia and Australia.
彼得·布莱克(Peter Blake)受雇于美国石油巨擘雪佛龙(Chevron)，他的工作是全球性的。他负责统筹安排价值数十亿美元的精密海底设备，这些设备被用来开采位于墨西哥湾，以及安哥拉、刚果共和国、印度尼西亚和澳大利亚的海上石油和天然气田。
So why is Mr. Blake, head of Chevron’s undersea unit, based here in northeast Scotland?
那么，为什么布莱克作为雪佛龙海底设备部门负责人，要以苏格兰东北部的阿伯丁为大本营呢？
Because since the early 1970s, when oil was discovered in the British North Sea, Aberdeen has evolved from a fishing town, to an oil boom town, to the world’s center of innovation and execution for the technology that makes the modern offshore energy industry possible.
原因是，自20世纪70年代早期在英国北海发现石油以来，阿伯丁已从一个小渔镇逐渐演变为一座繁荣的石油重镇，演变为一个技术创新和执行的世界中心，这些技术使现代海上能源产业成为可能。
“Scotland has been the home of subsea engineering,” Mr. Blake, a Scot, said in a conference room in Chevron’s European headquarters on a hilltop overlooking this city and its many dark granite buildings. “The expertise generated by the North Sea continually influences undersea work across the globe.”
“苏格兰一直是海底工程技术的发源地，”在雪佛龙欧洲总部的一间会议室里，身为苏格兰人的布莱克说道。雪佛龙欧洲总部建在山顶上，俯瞰着整座城市和许多暗色花岗岩楼房。“北海产生的专业技术持续影响着全球海底作业。”
That expertise, with a resurgence of investment in natural gas and oil fields in and near the North Sea, means that Aberdeen, with 468,000 people in the city and surrounding area, has been able to nearly escape the economic doldrums that have plagued most of Britain and Europe. Aside from central London, Aberdeen is the wealthiest place in Britain, with an annual income of about £32,000, or about $49,000, per person. And thanks to the more than 100,000 jobs the oil industry generates in the area, unemployment in the city and neighboring shires is less than half the 7.8 percent national average.
这种专业技术，加上再度兴起的对北海及其附近石油和天然气田的投资热，意味着在市内及周边地区有46.8万居民的阿伯丁，几乎未受困扰英国和欧洲大部地区的经济低潮的影响。除伦敦市中心以外，阿伯丁是英国最富裕的地方，人均年收入达到约3.2万英镑（约合30万元人民币）。而且得益于石油业为该地区带来的逾10万就业岗位，阿伯丁及邻近地区的失业率还不到7.8%的全国平均值的一半。
The average pay for each of those oil jobs, at £64,000, is more than double the British average.
而且，这些石油业职位平均薪酬为6.4万英镑，是英国平均薪水的两倍多。
“We’ve got plenty of well-paid people,” said Bob Keiller, chief of executive of Wood Group, a company that traces its roots to an early 20th-century fishing and boat repair business that has developed into a global oil services company with more than £7 billion a year in revenue.
“我们有很多拿高薪的人，”伍德集团(Wood Group)首席执行官鲍勃·基勒(Bob Keiller)说。该集团的前身是一家建立于20世纪初的渔业和船舶修理企业，后来发展成一个全球石油服务业公司，年收入超过70亿英镑。
Aberdeen does not look rich, though it does seem to have a disproportionate number of Range Rovers, Mercedes and BMWs. Its battered waterfront bars, with names like Neptune and Character, appear to have been little changed by four decades of an oil economy.
阿伯丁看上去并不富裕，尽管这里似乎有着数量超出比例的路虎揽胜(Range Rovers)、梅赛德斯(Mercedes)和宝马(BMW)车。而发展40年的石油经济，似乎也没让那些名为“海王星”、“品格”等饱经风浪打击的海滨酒吧发生任何改变。
But the fishing boats have been replaced by big, brightly painted oil field vessels that pull in and out of the narrow harbor entrance day and night. Such is the demand for pier space that the harbor authorities are contemplating construction of an additional pier in the next bay.
但是，渔船已被刷着亮漆的大型油田船舶取代，它们不分昼夜地在狭窄的港口进进出出。对码头空间的需求如此之大，港务局正考虑在邻近海湾增建一座码头。
Aberdeen remains a boomtown even though North Sea oil reserves are gradually being tapped out. And yet that is why the city has become such an innovation hub.
尽管北海原油储量正趋于枯竭，但阿伯丁仍是一个繁荣的城市。而且，也正是因为油田老化枯竭，才推动该市成为一个创新中心。
New development projects are having to venture ever deeper into more treacherous waters, whether west of the Shetland Islands in Britain or in the Barents Sea off Russia.
新开发项目必须要进入更深、更险恶的水域进行勘探，比如英国设德兰群岛以西海域或是俄罗斯海岸外的巴伦支海。
For two planned projects, Rosebank off the Shetlands and Alder in the North Sea, Chevron and its partners recently awarded contracts worth £550 million, or more than $840 million. In the case of Rosebank, equipment must work at depths of 3,600 feet, and its surface production vessel must withstand waves 98 feet high or more.
对于已规划好的两个项目——设德兰群岛边上的罗斯班克(Rosebank)油气田及北海的阿尔德(Alder)油气田——雪佛龙最近和其合作伙伴发放了价值5.5亿英镑的合同。罗斯班克项目中，设备必须在海平面以下3600英尺的海底开展作业，而其海面开采平台必须能承受98英尺或者更高的海浪。
The companies winning those contracts included a joint venture of the oil services giant Schlumberger and Cameron International, an undersea hardware specialist; and Aker Solutions, a Norwegian maker of oil and gas equipment. Each has a big presence in Aberdeen.
赢得那些合同的公司包括一家由石油服务业巨头斯伦贝谢(Schlumberger)和海底硬件设备专业生产商卡梅隆国际(Cameron International)组建的合资企业；以及挪威的油气设备生产商阿克工程公司(Aker Solutions)。这些公司均在阿伯丁有很大业务地盘。
As the rest of the global oil industry moves offshore and into deeper water off Brazil, Africa and the United States, the techniques and technology honed in the North Sea are increasingly in demand worldwide.
随着全球石油业的其余成员也移师海上，进军巴西、非洲和美国附近的深水油气田，在北海得到完善的方法和技术在世界各地越来越吃香。
Oil installations in water thousands of feet deep often resemble jellyfish, with a single platform or vessel floating at the top and far below a mass of wellheads, underwater controls, pump stations, piping and processing units snaking along the seabed.
在数千英尺深的水域，石油设施看上去往往像只水母，一个孤零零的平台或船舶漂浮在海面上，在极深的海床上则绵延着一大堆井口、水下控制、泵站、管道和处理设备。
Humans cannot work under a mile of water, so installing such equipment calls for specialized ships that can lay pipes and direct robotic submarines that install and maintain the gear. The arsenal includes powerful pumps and “well trees” — complex arrays of pipes and valves that sit atop undersea wells and regulate the flow of fluids.
人类无法在1英里（约合1.6公里）以下的水中作业，所以安装这种设备需要特种船舶，由其铺设管道，并操控机器人潜艇安装和维护设备。全套设备包括强大的油泵和“井树”——位于海床井口的复杂的管道和阀门阵列，用于调节流体的流动。
“Acid stimulation systems” inject chemicals into seafloor wells to increase production. Gas compressors, huge pieces of equipment that keep gas fields pumping, are being built to go deep under water rather than on land or on platforms. All must be built to resist the corrosion of salt water and withstand tremendous water pressure.
“酸化增产系统”把化学物注入海底油井以提高产量。气体压缩机是一种保持气田喷气的大型设备，它正被重新设计，以便在深水下（而不是陆地或平台上）运行。所有设备都必须建得足以耐受盐水的腐蚀，并能够承受巨大的水压。
The costs of undersea oil projects can run into billions of dollars because usually the only practical solution is to put most of the gear for a deepwater field on the seafloor, rather than on a platform or on land. Still, “the real estate on the bottom is cheap, compared to the surface,” Mr. Blake said.
海底石油项目的成本可能高达数十亿美元，因为通常唯一实际的方案是把深水油气田的大部分设备放在海底，而不是平台或陆地上。不过，“比起表面，底下的地产价格比较便宜，”布莱克说。
This urge to submerge is proving to be a boon for British purveyors of underwater equipment and services and for their Norwegian counterparts. Subsea UK, an Aberdeen-based trade group, figures that British companies have about £8.9 billion in revenue, or 45 percent of the global subsea business, which has been growing at an annual rate of 17 percent.
海底采油潮成了英国水下设备和服务提供商及其挪威同行的摇钱树。“英国海底”(Subsea UK)是一家阿伯丁的贸易组织，据该组织统计，英国公司拥有大约89亿英镑收入，占全球海底设备市场的45%，该市场每年增长17%。
“We often try new technology in the North Sea. It is a test bed,” said Matt Corbin, chief executive of the subsea unit of Aker Solutions, which employs 2,800 people here.
“我们经常在北海尝试新技术。这里成了实验平台，”阿克工程公司海底设备分公司首席执行官马特·科尔宾(Matt Corbin)说。该公司在当地雇佣了2800人。
On a warm July afternoon in an industrial park near Aberdeen International Airport, Aker’s engineers were at work on sophisticated electronic control systems for what may be a first: an enormous gas compression unit, 75 meters long. What looks like a railroad bridge will be installed on the sea bottom off western Norway at an oil field called Asgard that is operated by Statoil, the Norwegian national oil company.
7月一个温暖的下午，在阿伯丁国际机场附近的一个工业园区里，阿克公司的工程师们正忙于制造一种复杂的电子控制系统，它将用于或许是世界首创的一台巨型气体压缩装置，有75米长。这东西看上去就像一座铁路桥，将被安装在挪威以西的阿斯加德(Asgard)油田的海底，该油田的作业方是挪威国家石油公司(Statoil)。
At Schlumberger, the oil services company, drilling specialists in the Aberdeen technology center can monitor, by video, the progress of undersea drilling at its clients’ projects anywhere in the world. “Because we run so much technology in the North Sea, we have the ability to look at data and give a sensible answer in other parts of the world, " said Graham Raeper, a Schlumberger engineer, as he pored over a readout with details of a well being drilled in Angola.
在石油服务集团斯伦贝谢，阿伯丁技术中心的钻井专家可以通过视频，监视世界各地客户项目的海底钻井进度。“因为我们在北海采用这么多的技术，我们有能力查看数据，针对世界其他地方提供明智的答案，”斯伦贝谢工程师格雷厄姆·瑞珀尔(Graham Raeper)说。他正在聚精会神地阅读安哥拉一个钻井工程的详尽读数。
Aberdeen’s ability to grow as an energy hub may have limits. Already, some industry executives worry that wage inflation could eventually prompt them to find less expensive locales. And as the region’s offshore energy reserves eventually dwindle, many companies will have less reason to have Aberdeen addresses.
阿伯丁作为一个能源枢纽的发展空间或许是有限度的。一些业界高管已经开始担心，工资的上涨最终将迫使他们寻找更便宜的地点。随着该地区的海上能源储量最终枯竭，许多公司将没有那么充足的理由坚守阿伯丁。
But some locals expect the city’s intellectual capital to endure — just as there is a Silicon Valley, though little of its business actually involves silicon. “We can be confident the exports will continue,” said Alexander Kemp, an oil economist at the University of Aberdeen.
但一些当地人期望该市的智力资本将能够持续，就好比硅谷的多数业务与硅无关一样。“我们有信心认为，出口将会继续，”阿伯丁大学(University of Aberdeen)石油经济学家亚历山大·肯普(Alexander Kemp)说。
For now, at least, the job seekers continue to flock here, whether to the office parks or the oil field equipment factories springing up on what were cow pastures west of the city.
至少就目前而言，求职者仍不断涌向这里，无论是前往办公园区或是油田设备工厂，这些建筑在这座城市以西曾是养牛场的地方如雨后春笋般涌现。
“We are in a bubble here,” said John Morrison, a recent architecture graduate who is designing suburban tract housing to accommodate the inflow. “I’d struggle to have a job anywhere else.”
约翰·莫里森(John Morrison)是一名建筑学应届毕业生，他正在设计用来安置新来者的市郊住宅区。“我们正处在一个泡沫中，”莫里森说。“我在其他地方将是难以找到工作的。”