Scotland, home to just five million people, has never weighed on the minds of currency traders and market investors the way that Russia or China or the eurozone has — until now.
只有五百万人口的苏格兰，从未像俄罗斯、中国、或欧元区那样让外汇交易员和市场投资者忧心忡忡过——直到现在。
A poll this weekend showed Scottish voters for the first time favoring independence, and a risky unknown that had not been on the radar of most investors suddenly loomed large.
上周末一项民意调查结果首次显示，苏格兰选民赞同独立，这让大多数投资者未曾考虑过的一个风险突然出现，令人忧虑。
The British pound tumbled on Monday, and the stocks of financial institutions with large operations in Scotland fell sharply.
英镑在周一大跌，在苏格兰有大笔经营的金融机构的股票也大幅下跌。
The selling, analysts said, was a protective reaction, as large institutions moved in a herd to hedge against what could be a new market-rattling event.
分析人士说，抛售是一种保护性反应，是大型机构为了对冲一个或将成为新的让市场动荡事件所带来的风险，而采取的随大流手段。
“There is just massive uncertainty,” said Mujtaba Rahman, the European director for the Eurasia Group, a political and economic consulting firm. “From what an independent Scotland would look like to the currency, the financial system and even Britain’s membership in the European Union.”At the root of the unease is that a separation of Scotland would be a very messy affair, not least because no one seems to have truly prepared for it. Worst-case scenarios include Scotland reneging on its 143 billion pounds in debt, which would be a disaster for the rest of Britain as the main guarantor of those loans.
政经咨询公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)欧洲部主任穆杰塔巴·拉赫曼(Mujtaba Rahman)说，“在许多方面有巨大的不确定性，从一个独立的苏格兰会是什么样，到货币、金融体系、乃至英国的欧盟成员国身份等。”不安的根源在于，苏格兰与英国分家将是一件很麻烦的事，不仅是因为似乎没有人对其有真正的准备。最坏的情况包括苏格兰对其1430亿英镑(约1.4万亿元人民币)的债务违约，这对于作为债务的主要担保者英国的其他地区来说，将是一场灾难。
A Scottish secession would be more likely to weaken Britain’s pro-European Labour Party and possibly bolster a growing faction of voters in Britain who want the country to leave the European Union — a move that British business and financial leaders have long opposed.
苏格兰退出英国有可能会削弱亲欧洲的英国工党，并可能增强英国的一个正在壮大的选民派系，那些选民希望英国脱离欧盟，而英国企业和金融领导人长期以来反对这种做法。
Adding to the unease, Mr. Rahman points out, is that two of Britain’s largest banks, the Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Bank, have significant exposure through several businesses.
拉赫曼指出，让不安加深的是，英国最大的两家银行，苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)和劳埃德银行(Lloyds Bank)，在苏格兰有不少业务，因此都面临较大的风险。
Much of the worry revolves around how Scotland could survive as an independent country, dependent largely on the oil it gets from the North Sea. Independence proponents have said they want to keep the pound, but without a central bank looking after its interests, Scotland would again find itself hostage to British fiscal and monetary policy.
许多担忧围绕着苏格兰作为一个独立国家如何生存的问题，苏格兰在很大程度上依赖于其在北海开采的石油。支持独立的人曾表示，他们希望继续使用英镑，但由于没有一个中央银行为其利益作考虑，苏格兰将会发现自己再次受制于英国的财政和货币政策。
For about a year, polls have shown Scottish voters preferring to remain in the United Kingdom, in the face of a broad campaign supported by mainstream businesses in Scotland and British political leaders.
在大约一年的时间里，调查显示，面对有苏格兰主流企业和英国政治领导人支持的广泛宣传活动，苏格兰选民更多地选择留在联合王国(United Kingdom)内。
The view, broadly, was that while many Scots were happy to complain about life in the 307-year-old union, the financial and economic risks of going it alone would keep a majority from voting yes.
他们的想法大致是，虽然许多苏格兰人喜欢抱怨在这个有307年历史的联合体中的生活，但独自过活的金融和经济风险将阻止多数人对分家投赞成票。
But the independence movement has been gaining in strength, helped by the charismatic head of the Scottish National Party, Alex Salmond, who was widely seen to have thrashed his opponent in a recent debate on the topic. At the same time, frustration toward Britain’s Conservative-led coalition government has grown in Scotland.Over the weekend, a YouGov poll showed the pro-independence campaign in front for the first time, by a 51 to 49 percent margin. Scottish voters go the polls on Sept. 18 to decide whether to leave the union or stay in it.
然而，独立运动日益壮大，富有魅力的苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)党魁亚历克斯·萨尔蒙德(Alex Salmond)对此大有帮助，人们普遍认为在最近一次就有关话题的辩论中，他大胜对手。与此同时，苏格兰对英国保守党领导的联合政府的不满也在增长。上周末的一次YouGov民意调查显示，支持独立的运动首次以51%对49％的微弱多数领先。苏格兰选民将于9月18日正式投票，决定是脱离联合王国、还是留在其中。
On Monday, the pound, which had been rising on the back of Britain’s recovering economy, retreated 1.3 percent to $1.61, its largest daily reversal in more than a year. Since mid-July, the pound is down 6 percent against the dollar. Benchmark British bonds also lost value, as did stocks.
周一，英镑兑美元的汇率回落了1.3％，降至1.61，这是一年多的时间里最大的单日降幅，此前英镑一直在英国经济复苏的支持下升值。自7月中旬起，英镑兑美元的汇率下跌了6％。英国的基准债券也有所贬值，股票也一样。
It was the currency’s sharp move, however, that most unnerved market participants. And taken together with last week’s steeper fall in the euro, this bout of currency volatility highlights how complacent investors have become in recent years. Years of very loose monetary policy and booming asset prices have created a sense of calm that can be punctured easily.
但是，货币的大涨大落才是令市场参与者最为不安的问题。加之欧元在上周的巨幅下跌，这一回合的货币动荡凸显了近年来投资者表现出的不在乎态度。多年来非常宽松的货币政策、以及激增的资产价格制造了一种平静的心态，然而这种心态很容易被打破。
“When you go through these periods of low volatility you can get lulled into a false sense of safety,” said Jens Nordvig, a foreign currency strategist with Nomura in New York. The reaction in the currency markets can, as a result, be quite violent.
“当你经历了这些低波动时期以后，你可能被麻痹从而产生安全的错觉，”纽约野村证券的外汇策略师延斯·诺德维克(Jens Nordvig)说。因此，货币市场的反应可能相当剧烈。
Mr. Nordvig pointed out that in adjusted terms, the euro’s 1.5 percent fall last Thursday — following a promise by the European Central Bank’s president, Mario Draghi, to take extra steps to stimulate Europe’s economy — was the largest in its history.
诺德维克指出，考虑了通货膨胀的因素后，欧元在上周四下跌的1.5％，是其历史上最大的跌幅，那之前，欧洲央行行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)承诺要采取额外步骤刺激欧洲经济。
The pound’s drop on Monday was not as extreme but was “remarkable” all the same, Mr. Nordvig said, reflecting a somewhat frantic push by large asset managers, sovereign wealth funds and corporations to protect their exposure to pound-denominated assets.
诺德维克说，英镑周一的下跌虽没有创纪录，但也“很显著”，反映了大笔资产的管理者、主权财富基金，以及企业在降低他们以英镑计价资产的风险上有点措手不及。
Even with the new polls, most political analysts do not expect Scottish voters to vote to break away, although many acknowledge being a little less secure in their prognostications after this weekend’s polls. They argue that as doubts mount, the British government will continue to offer up policy measures to persuade Scotland to stay in the union, such as a bigger say in key spending and taxing issues that now are controlled from London.
即使在新的调查结果面前，大多数政治分析人士并不预期苏格兰选民会投票脱离英国，虽然不少人承认，上周末的民意调查结果出来后，他们对自己的预言不再那么有把握。他们认为，由于对未来的疑虑增加，英国政府将继续主动提出一些政策措施，以说服苏格兰留在联盟中，比如在重大的开支和税收问题上有更多的发言权，这些问题现在由伦敦控制。