AUCHTERMUCHTY, Scotland — “Conservatives only come to Scotland to shoot grouse, do they not?”
苏格兰奥奇特木提——“保守党人只有打松鸡时才来苏格兰，不是吗？”
That was the withering verdict of John Latham as he enjoyed a pint in the Cycle Tavern in Auchtermuchty. Locals say southerners have trouble with the name, which means uplands of the wild boar, flattening the guttural “chhh” to a “k” and failing to deploy “plenty of spittle.” Be that as it may, Latham’s dismissal of English Tories is near universal in Scotland, where just over four million voters will decide next week on whether to opt for independence and cast Great Britain into the dustbin of history.
约翰·莱瑟姆(John Latham)语带尖刻地做出了这个判定，当时他正在奥奇特木提的塞克酒馆(Cycle Tavern)喝啤酒。奥奇特木提的意思是野猪岭，当地人说，南方人说这个词时，会把扁平喉音“奇”发成“科”的音，而且无法发出“浓厚的泡泡音”。不止如此，莱瑟姆对英国保守党人的那种不屑态度，在苏格兰极为普遍；在那里，400多万选民将在下周投票决定，是否要选择独立，把大不列颠(Great Britain)扔进历史的垃圾堆。
The news would trend on Twitter. Great Britain has had a pretty good run since it was formed by the union of Scotland and England in 1707.
这个消息会成为Twitter上的热议话题。苏格兰和英格兰于1707年结盟，形成大不列颠，自那之后，这个联盟发展得相当不错。
David Cameron, the British prime minister, is a Tory, of course. That is part of the problem. To Scots he is the spoon-fed “rich toff” from Central Casting who never knew the price of a loaf of bread. He’s the emblem of a money-oozing London that has lost touch with the rest of the country.
英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)当然是保守党成员。问题部分上就在于此。对于苏格兰人而言，他是“角色分派中心”指派的人，是饭来张口的“富家公子哥儿”，连一袋面包多少钱都不知道。他象征的是散发着铜臭味儿的、和英国其他地区已经疏远的伦敦。
Scotland wants to do things another way. It sees itself as a Scandinavia-like bastion of social democracy in the making: Norway with whisky. That, at least, is the vision of Alex Salmond, the charismatic leader of the Scottish National Party. Whether an independent Scotland would have the money for comprehensive welfare is another question. Salmond is skirting that for now. A mist of vagueness hovers over how an independent Scotland would cut it. He has a new favorite line in these frenetic last days: “Team Scotland against Team Westminster.”
苏格兰想要走另一种道路。它自认为是一个正在形成中的、斯堪的纳维亚式社会民主堡垒：一个拥有威士忌的挪威。至少在亚历克斯·萨尔蒙德(Alex Salmond)的愿景中是如此；他是苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)党魁，颇具领袖风范。至于苏格兰独立后，是否将有资金来提供完善的福利保障，那就是另外一个问题了。萨尔蒙德眼下对这个问题避而不谈。一团迷雾笼罩着苏格兰独立后如何自力更生的问题。在群情激荡的这最后数天中，萨尔蒙德创造了一个新的流行语：“苏格兰队对阵威斯敏斯特队。”
“Team Westminster,” it has to be said, is giving a convincing impression of panic as the Sept. 18 vote approaches. Several polls now show the referendum as too close to call. Cameron’s complacency over a comfortable “No” vote has vanished. The pound is slumping.
不得不说，随着9月18日的投票日临近，“威斯敏斯特队”令人信服地摆出了一副惊慌失措的姿态。几项民意调查显示，公投结果是去是留，相差只在一线之间。卡梅伦曾自信满满，觉得可以轻而易举地得到“留下”的结果，但现在这种自信已经荡然无存。目前，英镑正在走低。
The Saltire, or Scottish flag, was abruptly hoisted over 10 Downing Street, the prime minister’s residence. Cameron zoomed up to Scotland to declare it’s not about “the effing Tories” but love of a country he would be “heartbroken” to lose. Ed Miliband, the opposition Labour leader, also discovered his inner Scotland. He hurtled north to deliver an impassioned appeal. Nick Clegg, Cameron’s Liberal Democrat sidekick in the coalition government, said something; just what nobody can remember. Gordon Brown, a Scot and former prime minister, was wheeled out to say maximum devolution of powers would begin on Sept. 19 if Scotland only sticks with Britain.
苏格兰国旗圣安德鲁十字旗(Saltire)，突然悬挂在了唐宁街10号首相官邸。卡梅伦急赴苏格兰，声明这无关“该死的保守党”，而关乎于对一个国家的爱，倘若这个国家离去，他将会“心碎”。反对党工党的领袖埃德·米利班德(Ed Miliband)也发现了自己内心对苏格兰的爱。他冲到那里，进行了慷慨激昂的呼吁。卡梅伦联合政府中的自由民主党伙伴尼克·克莱格(Nick Clegg)也说了些什么；只不过没人记得住。英国前首相、苏格兰人戈登·布朗(Gordon Brown)被推了出来，说如果苏格兰留在不列颠，将从9月19日起启动最高程度的权力下放过程。
All of which has caused amusement in Auchtermuchty and beyond. “If we’re going to fail on our own, why are they so concerned?” said Stephanie Murphy, as she poured another pint. “Aye,” said Latham, “If they want us so bad, maybe we should go.” The sudden Westminster flurry smacks of too little, too late.
所有这一切，都在奥奇特木提和其他地方成了笑料。“如果我们自己单干会失败，他们为什么这么担心？”斯蒂芬妮·墨菲(Stephanie Murphy)一边说，一边又倒了一杯啤酒。“对啊，”莱瑟姆说，“如果他们这么想要我们留下，那么我们也许应该离开。”威斯敏斯特突然表现出来的慌乱挽留之意来得太少、太迟了。
Still, going it alone is a risk. “I have a pension, I don’t want to lose it,” said Andrew Dewar. “You’ve got 16-year-old first-time voters watching ‘Braveheart’ and believing we’ll be fine. Salmond says we’ll be like Norway. Well, in Norway a pint costs nine pounds — so hopefully not!” Debbie Marton suggested that, “Maybe we could have a trial period!” That won’t happen: The decision will be binding.
然而，离开也存在风险。“我有退休金，我不想失去它，”安德鲁·杜瓦(Andrew Dewar)说。“这里有些选民不过16岁，第一次参加投票，他们看了《勇敢的心》(Braveheart)，以为我们会安然无恙。萨尔蒙德说，我们会像挪威那样。好吧，在挪威，啤酒卖到9英镑（约合人民币90元）一杯——所以我希望我们不要像挪威！”黛比·马顿(Debbie Marton)建议，“也许我们可以试一段时间！”那不可能：这个决定将具有约束力。
Some Scots have not forgotten that the union of 1707 came about in part because Scotland was bankrupt, having embarked on a mad-cat scheme, now known as the “Darien Disaster,” in a Panamanian malarial swamp.
有些苏格兰人并没有忘记，1707年之所以和英格兰结盟，部分上是因为他们破产了，当时苏格兰参与了一个胆大妄为的计划，现在被称为“达瑞恩灾难”(Darien Disaster)，涉及巴拿马一个疟疾肆虐的沼泽。
Scots poured money into the Darien Company believing the Panamanian outpost would turn the country into a giant of global trade. Instead, many met a quick death — as did the project.
苏格兰人将资金投入达瑞恩公司(Darien Company)，以为巴拿马的那块偏远之地可以让该国成为一个全球贸易巨头。结果，很多人很快死在了那里——这个项目也迅速流产。
My non-scientific survey of voters in St. Andrews, Auchtermuchty and Edinburgh found many people still undecided, torn between a heart that says “yes” and a mind that says “no.” They’d love to “set England afloat” but worry what would happen to pensions, the National Health Service, jobs, the currency and membership in the European Union. Latham, a wine salesman, is hesitant himself, but says, “It’s one of those wee chances in life you may just have to take.”
在圣安德鲁斯、奥奇特木提和爱丁堡，我随意对选民进行了一些调查，发现很多人仍然犹豫不决：他们在感情上说“离开”，理智却说“留下”，这令他们拿不定主意。他们很乐意“和英格兰分手”，但又担心这会给养老金、国家医疗服务体系(National Health Service)、就业、货币，以及欧盟会员资格带来影响。莱瑟姆是一名葡萄酒推销员，他自己也在犹豫，但他说，“生活中有一些小小的机会，可能是你必须抓牢的，这也是其中之一。”