Public opinion polls show Scotland’s independence referendum is too close to call ahead of the Sept. 18 vote, which could come down to those still undecided — at least 6 percent of potential voters have not made up their mind.
民意调查显示，在9月18日的苏格兰独立公投来临之际，双方势均力敌。公投结果或许会取决于那些仍难做出抉择的民众——在潜在选民中，至少有6%还没打定主意。
The New York Times asked undecided Scottish readers what issues matter most to them in the last few days of the campaign and what is likely to sway their vote.
《纽约时报》询问了尚未决定的苏格兰读者，在造势活动的最后几天里，什么议题对他们来说最重要？又有什么可能会影响他们的投票？
On Twitter and Facebook, and in comments on our website, readers cited numerous concerns, from education to national identity to Scotland’s economic well-being.
在Twitter、Facebook和我们网站的评论栏，读者们给出的答案中谈到了诸多方面的担忧，涉及教育、国家安全和苏格兰经济健康等方方面面的问题。
A number of readers said they do not see either side making particularly compelling arguments in favor of independence or against it, and they are turned off by negative campaigning and fearmongering.
不少读者表示，在他们看来，双方阵营均未能给出赞成或反对独立的特别有说服力的理由，而且负面宣传和恫吓让他们颇为反感。
“It’s not the fear of independence that has held me back but rather the lack of a true vision for the society we want to become,” David Macdonald wrote on Facebook, adding that he was “struggling to see how one option is better than the other.”
“并不是对独立的恐惧让我止步不前，而是对我们的理想社会缺乏真正的规划，”戴维·麦克唐纳(David Macdonald)在Facebook上写道。他还表示，自己“实在难以看出其中哪个选项会比另外一个好”。
He said that he has not fully supported the Yes campaign because he feels it lacks a “true vision for the society we want to become.”
他说，之所以没有全身心支持“赞成”独立的阵营，是因为感到这一方“对我们的理想社会缺乏真正的规划”。
In the end, he wrote, he will probably make up his mind on Thursday, when he goes to the polls, and will choose in the moment what he considers “the lesser of two evils.”
最后，他写道，他很可能会周四去投票的时候再打定主意，当场“两害相权取其轻”。
Evelyn NícDhonnacha wrote on Facebook that she still needs “some hard, objective facts” to make her decision, but neither side has provided sufficient rationale to join their cause. “I’ve heard no good argument about staying with the Union and have no solid base on how to decide on Independence,” she said.
伊夫琳·尼克唐纳沙(Evelyn NícDhonnacha)在Facebook上写道，她仍然需要“一些过硬的客观事实”来做出决定，但两方阵营均未能给出支持其立场的足够依据。“我没有听到留在联合王国的好理由，也没有如何在独立问题上做出决策的坚实基础，”她说。
Emma Newton did her own research to help inform her decision. She wrote that her choice boils down to “a decision between short-term economic stability and freedom from the burden of trident,” referring to the nuclear-armed submarines based in Scotland.
埃玛·牛顿(Emma Newton)则是亲自做了一些研究来丰富决策依据。她写道，自己的选择取决于“是决定要短期经济稳定，还是要从三叉戟的负担中解脱出来”。“三叉戟”在这里指的是驻扎在苏格兰的配有核弹的潜艇。
She said negative campaigning by politicians on both sides have made it harder for her to make a decision.
她说，双方阵营政客的负面宣传让她更加难以抉择。
“I’ll probably let my heart decide next Thursday but what my heart feels right now is still conflicted,” she wrote.
“我很可能在周四听从内心的召唤，但我的内心此时此刻仍然充满矛盾，”她写道。
Many other readers also expressed frustration with the campaigns, accusing the Yes and No camps of negativity and presenting misleading information.
还有很多读者表达了对造势活动的不满，指责双方阵营过于负面，给出误导信息。
“The ‘no’ has been negative and at times misleading and on the cusp of downright lies,” John Burns wrote on Facebook. “The ‘yes’ has been full of emotion and no substance!”
“‘反对’阵营很负面，有时会故意误导，几近直接撒谎，”约翰·伯恩斯(John Burns)在Facebook上写道。“‘赞成’阵营充满激情，但缺乏实质！”
Some undecided Scots said that their passions and their pragmatism are in conflict.
一些尚未决定的苏格兰人表示，他们的理智与情感正在打架。
Mr. Burns, who said he will probably remain undecided until he casts his vote, wrote that his “heart argues n fights with my mind.”
表示可能要到投票时才能拿定主意的伯恩斯写道，他的“情感和理智在争吵，厮打”。
Another reader, Joan Fleming, wrote on Facebook that both campaigns have been emotional, forcing her to look outside the United Kingdom for balance and perspective.
另一名读者琼·弗莱明(Joan Fleming)在Facebook上写道，双方的造势活动都情绪激动，迫使她去联合王国以外的地方寻找中立和不同的观点。
“Emotions are running high here on both sides — Scot against Scot, family against family, friend against friend,” she said. “The Yes campaign is all stirring speeches and dancing in the streets. The No’s are cautious and accused of scaremongering.”
“在这里，双方都情绪高涨——苏格兰人之间、家庭之间、朋友之间，”她说。“‘赞成’阵营给出的是激动人心的演讲和大街上的狂欢，而‘反对’阵营较为谨慎，但被指危言耸听。”
Ms. Fleming added: “At the end of the day it comes down to cold hard facts — economics over emotion.”
弗莱明接着写道：“最终还是要归结于严酷的事实——经济而非情感。”
Economic stability is an important issue for many Times readers, who said it was the main factor in their decision-making process.
对《纽约时报》的许多读者来说，经济稳定是一个重要的问题。他们表示，这是其决策过程中主要考虑的因素。
Chris Burt from Stirling, Scotland, wrote in a comment on a Times article that the referendum has conjured up emotions about national identity as well as practical concerns regarding the potential for an independent Scotland’s prosperity.
来自苏格兰斯特灵的克里斯·布尔特(Chris Burt)在评论《纽约时报》的一篇文章时写道，公投激起了人们对国家认同和一些实际问题的感想，这些问题涉及苏格兰独立后繁荣发展的潜力。
“I personally feel very British — my parents are English, I was born and raised in central Scotland, and I have studied at university in London. The most difficult aspect for me would be to lose this British identity, and I think it would be very sad to no longer have the Team GB spirit that took over the entire country just two years ago,” he wrote, referring to the enthusiasm for Britain’s athletes during the Olympic Games in London.
“我个人觉得自己很不列颠——我的父母是英格兰人，我在苏格兰中部出生长大，我在伦敦读的大学。对我来说，最难的一点将是失去这种英国身份。我觉得，不能再感受英国奥运代表队带来的那种精神鼓舞会让人非常难过。而就在两年前，这种鼓舞人心的感觉席卷了整个国家，”他写道。他指的是在伦敦奥运会期间，不列颠运动员为民众带来的激情。
“Pragmatically, I foresee the economic consequences of independence as being too counterintuitive to Scottish prosperity,” Mr. Burt added. “The huge transaction costs associated with businesses adapting to a new governance structure and uncertainty alone are reasons to heed from independence. Our fiscal control is reduced no matter which currency an independent Scotland would end up using, and EU membership would not provide Scotland with any more sovereignty than is already surrendered to Westminster, with Brussels and the European Commission and Court of Human Rights being certainly less accessible to Scottish interests.” Kirsten Rees, a small-business owner, wrote on Facebook that the international attention given to Thursday’s referendum has made her feel even more pressure to make the right choice.
“实事求是地说，我预感独立会给苏格兰的繁荣带来意想不到的经济后果，”布尔特接着说。“单是企业适应一种新的治理结构，以及不确定性带来的高额交易成本，便可以成为不考虑独立的理由。不管苏格兰独立后使用哪种货币，我们的财政控制都会减少，欧盟成员国身份给苏格兰提供的主权，不会比现在交给威斯敏斯特的多，在布鲁塞尔、欧盟委员会(European Commission)和人权法院(Court of Human Rights)，苏格兰的利益肯定也比从前更难保障。”一家小企业的老板柯尔斯滕·里斯(Kirsten Rees)在Facebook上写道，国际社会对周四公投的关注，甚至让她觉得做出正确选择的压力更大了。