EDINBURGH — After a passionate campaign that spanned two years of mounting intensity but reached back into centuries of history, Scottish voters headed for the polling booths on Thursday to choose whether to remain part of the United Kingdom or to secede.
爱丁堡——经过一场为期两年、同时涉及到几百年历史的越来越充满激情的造势运动之后，苏格兰选民周四前往投票站，选择是留在联合王国内、还是脱离英国。
If the “yes” campaign seeking independence for Scotland secures a majority, it will herald the most dramatic constitutional change in Britain since the two countries united in 1707. The repercussions would be momentous, creating the world’s newest state and ending a union that once oversaw an empire and triumphed in two world wars.
如果寻求苏格兰独立的“赞成(yes)”运动能赢得超过半数的投票，就将预示着这两个王国自1707年联合以来，英国所面临的最激进的体制变革。影响将会非常重大，这将创建世界上一个最新的国家，并让一个曾操持帝国大业，并在两次世界大战中获胜的联合国家就此解体。
In Edinburgh, a steady stream of early voters filed into polling stations under murky skies and fog that swathed the ramparts of Edinburgh Castle. Others said they would vote later in the day, after working hours. Electoral officials have said they are expecting record numbers.
在爱丁堡，一大早赶来投票的选民在阴暗的天空和大雾的笼罩下，排队进入投票站，爱丁堡城堡的壁垒在浓雾中隐约可见。有些人说，他们将在当天晚些下班后投票。选举官员说，他们预计参加投票的人数将创纪录。
If “no” voters prevail, the outcome will leave Britain’s prime minister, David Cameron, facing challenges from his own Conservative Party over promises of greater autonomy for Scotland that he made in an effort to head off the pro-independence campaign led by the Scottish first minister, Alex Salmond.
如果投“反对(no)”票的选民占上风，将会让英国首相戴维·卡梅伦面临来自他本人领导的保守党的挑战，因为他在努力阻止苏格兰首席大臣亚历克斯·萨尔蒙德(Alex Salmond)领导的独立运动的过程中，曾许诺给予苏格兰更大的自治权。
Almost 4.3 million people — 97 percent of the electorate — have registered to vote, including 16- and 17-year-olds, enfranchised for the first time. Analysts have forecast a turnout in excess of 80 percent at about 2,600 polling places stretching from urban centers to remote and sparsely populated islands and far-flung settlements in the Scottish Highlands. Voting began at 7 a.m. and the polling stations were set to close at 10 p.m.
有近430万人已为参加公投做了选民登记，占选民总数的97％，其中包括16岁和17岁的少年，这是他们首次获得投票权。分析人士预测，投票率将超过80％，人们将在设在从城市中心、到人口稀少的边远岛屿、到苏格兰高地零星居民点的约2600个投票站投票。投票始于早上7点，投票站将于晚上10点关闭。
A full result is expected by breakfast time on Friday, when Scots will learn whether their land is to embark on a era of restored sovereignty that, only a matter of years ago, seemed unlikely. The English — who form the overwhelming majority of the 60-million-plus population of the United Kingdom — have no vote in the referendum, whose result could send political and economic shock waves across the nation, which also includes Wales and Northern Ireland.
最终结果预计将在周五的早餐时间出来，届时苏格兰人将得知他们所在的土地是否要进入恢复主权的时代，仅在几年前，这似乎不可想象。拥有6千多万人口、占联合王国绝大多数的英格兰人在这次公投中没有投票权，公投的结果可能在全国范围内产生政治和经济冲击波，联合王国还包括威尔士和北爱尔兰。
Opinion polls before the vote left the result on a knife edge, too close to call. Despite the intensity of the debate, some key issues remain unresolved, such as the currency to be used by an independent Scotland if there is a “yes” vote.
投票前的民意调查结果过于接近，胜负难料。尽管进行了相当激烈的辩论，但一些关键问题仍然没有得到解决，比如，如果投票结果是“赞成”，独立的苏格兰将使用什么货币。
Equally, Scottish secession could raise profound questions over Mr. Cameron’s political future. Mr. Salmond, Scotland’s highest-ranking official, has indicated that he will not step down if his side loses the referendum. One big issue if the “yes” campaign wins is the future of British nuclear submarines based in Scotland, which Mr. Salmond’s Scottish National Party wants to evict.
同样，苏格兰的退出可能给卡梅伦的政治前途带来深刻的问题。苏格兰最高级别长官萨尔蒙德曾表示，如果自己的一方在公投中失利，他不会下台。如果“赞成”运动获胜，一个很大的问题是基地设在苏格兰的英国核潜艇将何去何从，萨尔蒙德的苏格兰民族党的打算是将其赶走。
The question on the ballot is brief and simple: “Should Scotland be an independent country?” But the ramifications of a “yes” vote in particular are potentially far-reaching, raising questions about the international roles to be played by a diminished Britain and a newly independent Scotland. Opinion is closely divided and deeply felt.
选票上的问题简单明了：“苏格兰应该成为一个独立的国家吗？”但是，投票的结果、特别是“赞成”的结果可能会影响深远，将对缩小后英国以及新独立的苏格兰在国际舞台上的角色提出问题。这个问题上的意见高度分歧，且感受深刻。
Brian Cox, a Dundee-born actor who lives in New York and cannot vote in the referendum, returned to campaign for independence. He was impressed by the exercise of democracy here.
出生在邓迪、生活在纽约的演员布莱恩·考克斯(Brian Cox)不能参加公投，但他回到老家帮助独立派竞选。他被这里的民主运动深深打动。
“This is democracy at work as you rarely see it,” he said. “No or yes, people are going out to vote for something they deeply believe in.” He stopped, then said, “It’s moving.”
“这是你很少能看到的行动中的民主，”他说。“不管是反对还是赞成，人们都出来为他们深信的东西投票，”他停顿了一下接着说，“这令人动容。”
The impetus for a referendum began when Mr. Salmond’s party — once on the political fringes and with little electoral clout — won a majority in the Scottish Parliament in 2011, leading to negotiations with Mr. Cameron in 2012. Those talks set the date and terms of the referendum taking place on Thursday. Initially, the British leader seemed confident of victory, with opinion surveys showing Scots overwhelmingly in favor of remaining in the United Kingdom. But as the vote approached, the gap narrowed to the smallest of margins.
对公投的推动始于萨尔蒙德的政党于2011在苏格兰议会赢得多数席位，该政党曾一度处于政治边缘，对选民没有多少影响力，但萨尔蒙德的胜选让他得以在2012年启动与卡梅伦的谈判。这些谈判为周四进行的公投设定了日期和条款。起初，英国领导人似乎对胜利充满信心，民意调查曾显示有压倒多数的苏格兰人支持留在英国。但随着投票的临近，赞成和反对的差距缩小到最小水平。
The two sides have sought to enlist the support of celebrities to back their rival causes. The newest apparent social media coup came in the early hours of Thursday when a Twitter post attributed to the Scottish tennis star Andy Murray castigated the “no” campaign. “Huge day for Scotland today! no campaign negativity last few days totally swayed my view on it. excited to see the outcome. lets do this!” the message read.
双方都在争取名人来支持他们相互对抗的事业。社交媒体上最新的出乎意料行动似乎发生在周四凌晨，当时Twitter上出现了号称是来自苏格兰网球明星安迪·穆雷(Andy Murray)对“反对”独立运动的抨击。该帖子写道，“今天是苏格兰的重大日子！反对运动最后几天的负面宣传完全改变了我对其的看法。迫不及待地等着结果。咱们能行！”
Mr. Murray, 27, is not a Scottish resident and therefore cannot participate directly in the referendum.
27岁的穆雷不是苏格兰居民，因此不能直接参加公投。
As the ballot approached, both camps scrambled to lure hundreds of thousands of undecided voters whose ballots could swing the outcome.
随着投票的临近，双方阵营都在努力争取成千上万尚未做出决定的选民，他们的投票可以对结果起决定作用。
At a rally in Perth late on Wednesday, Mr. Salmond told his followers that the vote is “our opportunity of a lifetime and we must seize it with both hands.
周三晚在伯斯的一个集会上，萨尔蒙德对他的追随者说，这次投票是“我们千载难逢的机会，我们必须全力以赴抓住这个机会。”
“There are men and women all over Scotland looking in the mirror knowing that the moment has come. It’s our choice and our opportunity and our time,” he said, reflecting the upbeat and optimistic tone that the"yes” campaign has sought to project, in the face of dire warnings from the “no” campaign of the economic and social consequences of independence.
“全苏格兰的男女老少看着镜子里的自己，明白这个时刻已经到来。这是我们的选择，我们的机会，我们的时代，”他说，他的语气反映了“赞成”运动寻求表达的积极乐观心态，与“反对”运动发出的经济和社会后果的可怕警告形成对照。
In his own final public word on the vote, Gordon Brown, a former prime minister from the opposition Labour Party who has emerged as a leading spokesman of the anti-independence campaign, said in Glasgow on Wednesday that “the silent majority will be silent no more.”
来自反对派工党的前首相戈登·布朗(Gordon Brown)已成为反对独立运动的一位主要发言人，他周三在格拉斯哥自己对公投的最后公开讲话中表示，“沉默的大多数将不再沉默。” “We will build the future together,” he said. “What we have built together, by sacrificing and sharing, let no narrow nationalism split asunder ever.”
“我们将共同建设未来，”他说。“我们靠牺牲和分享已经建立起来的东西，不能从此被狭隘的民族主义四分五裂。”
The run-up to the vote has sharpened the lines between those who yearn for greater freedom from London’s control and those who believe that a break would create unacceptable uncertainty.
公投的准备工作加深了双方的分歧：一方渴望脱离伦敦控制得到更多的自由，另一方则认为分家会带来不可接受的不确定性。
Ryan Johnstone, a 22-year-old student in Dundee, spoke to a reporter outside the polling office where he had cast his ballot for independence, he said, because “Scots keep on voting for Labour or the Liberal Democrats but getting Conservative governments.”
邓迪一名22岁的学生瑞恩·约翰斯通(Ryan Johnstone)在投票站外对记者表示，他已经投了赞成独立的票，他说，因为“苏格兰人不断投票支持工党和自由民主党，但胜选的总是保守党的政府。”
He was referring to the electoral arithmetic that enabled Mr. Cameron’s Conservatives to take office in coalition with the Liberal Democrats to govern all of Britain, even though his party won only one parliamentary seat in Scotland.
他指的是那种让卡梅伦领导的保守党得以联合自由民主党获得全英国执政权的选举算法，尽管保守党仅在苏格兰议会赢得了唯一一个席位。
“It would be nice to have our own country,” Mr. Johnstone said.
约翰斯通说，“要是有我们自己的国家就好了。”