LONDON — Scottish nationalists have long argued that being governed from London has deprived their country of its fair share of the wealth from Britain’s oil and natural gas fields, which mostly lie in North Sea waters off their shores.
伦敦——苏格兰民族主义者长期以来一直主张，因为受到伦敦的管治，苏格兰不能从英国油气田的巨额收入中，取得自己应得的份额，而这些油气田就位于苏格兰海岸附近的北海上。
“It’s Scotland’s oil” was the rallying cry in the 1970s that helped raise the profile of the Scottish Nationalist Party, which now leads the country and is pushing for a vote to secede in the referendum on Thursday. Alex Salmond, the politician leading the separatist movement, has pointed to North Sea energy as the treasure that would help finance an independent Scotland — ensuring that the country could continue the generous public spending, including free university tuition, that he is promising voters.
“那是苏格兰的油”，这是上世纪70年代帮助苏格兰民族党(Scottish Nationalist Party)提升影响力的一句口号。现在领导苏格兰，并呼吁民众在周四的公投中投票支持分裂的正是苏格兰民族党。领导分离运动的政治人物亚历克斯·萨尔蒙德(Alex Salmond)认为，北海能源是一块宝藏，能够为独立的苏格兰提供财政支持，确保国家可以继续支持他向选民承诺的大规模公共开支，包括免费大学教育。
But North Sea energy revenue — even if the bulk of it went to a stand-alone Scotland, as is expected — would not be sufficient to justify such a big bet on the country’s economic future.
即使北海的能源收入如愿以偿地大部分流入独立的苏格兰，似乎也不值得拿该国的经济前景如此豪赌。
The approximately 5 billion pounds, or $8 billion, that the British government received in tax revenue from North Sea energy last year would have been the equivalent of only about 3 percent of the Scottish economy.
英国政府去年从北海能源中取得的税收约有50亿英镑（约合80亿美元，500亿元人民币），仅仅相当于苏格兰经济规模的3%。
Scotland has many other industries working in its favor, including banking and financial services, textiles, whisky and tourism. They would continue to play their parts, although the big banks, Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, have both indicated that they would move their headquarters to England if Scotland secedes, and some other multinationals might be harboring similar thoughts.
苏格兰有很多其他产业支撑本地经济，包括银行和金融服务业、纺织业、威士忌，以及旅游业。尽管这些产业还会正常运转，但是苏格兰皇家银行(Royal Bank of Scotland)和劳埃德银行(Lloyds)这两家大型银行都表示，如果苏格兰分裂，将会把总部搬到英格兰，其他一些跨国公司或许也有类似的想法。
While the oil and natural gas industry, and its 225,000 or so Scottish jobs, would remain vital to Scotland for years, the North Sea is no longer the bonanza it once was. Oil and gas production has declined by about two-thirds from the peak of 4.6 million barrels a day in the late 1990s, and tax revenue is declining and too erratic to count on, industry experts say.
尽管石油和天然气产业，以及该产业在苏格兰提供的大约22.5万个就业岗位在未来多年中对苏格兰都很关键，但北海已经不再是当年那样的聚宝盆了。业内专家表示，石油和天然气产量已经从90年代末每日460万桶的峰值，减少了三分之二，税收也在下降而且无法预料，因而并不可靠。
Even though some big oil companies have begun venturing farther offshore into deeper waters north of Scotland, the industry opposes the independence movement and might think twice before making the billions of dollars of investments required to bring that oil and gas to the surface. The ever-fluctuating price of oil makes any planning by industry executives, not to mention government treasurers, highly uncertain.
尽管一些大型石油企业已经开始涉足苏格兰以北更远、更深的海域，但能源产业反对独立运动，在投资数十亿美元，将油气开采出来之前，恐怕会思前想后。由于石油价格不断波动，能源产业高管做出的任何规划，都有极高的不确定性，而对于政府财政官员而言，则更是如此。
Perhaps the harshest reality check on Mr. Salmond’s forecasts has come from Ian Wood, a Scotsman who is the retired founder of Wood Group, a global oil services company based in Aberdeen. He is a widely respected figure in the industry whose work has been used for years by the British and Scottish governments.
萨尔蒙德给出的预测所面对的最严峻的现实考验，或许来自苏格兰人伊恩·伍德(Ian Wood)。伍德是总部位于阿伯丁的全球石油服务公司伍德集团(Wood Group)的创始人，现已退休。他在业内是一个备受尊重的人物，英国政府及苏格兰政府多年来也一直重视他的意见。
“Young people voting this week must be aware that by the time they’re in their 40s, Scotland will have little offshore oil and gas production, and this will severely hit our economy, jobs and public services,” Mr. Wood wrote on Energy Voice, an industry website. “I have been shocked by the amount of misinformation and spin.”
“本周投票的年轻人必须认识到，苏格兰的海上油气产量到他们40多岁时，就会所剩无几，这将会严重影响经济、就业和公共服务，”伍德在行业网站“能源之声”(Energy Voice)上撰文说。“有很多错误的信息和夸夸其谈的说法，这让我感到震惊。”
The government that winds up in charge of Britain’s oil and natural gas will face the task of giving tax incentives and finding other ways to squeeze the remaining oil and gas out of fields that are increasingly expensive to develop, analysts say.
分析人士称，最终能够掌控英国石油和天然气的新政府，需要面对新的任务，即通过税收优惠或寻找其他方式，将剩余的油气资源从油田中开采出来，因为开采作业的成本如今越来越高。
“The opportunities are smaller and more challenging to develop than in the past,” Robert W. Dudley, chief executive of the oil giant BP, the second-largest investor in British waters after Royal Dutch Shell, said in a statement last week urging a no vote. “Future long-term investments require fiscal stability and certainty.”
石油产业巨头BP的首席执行官罗伯特·W·杜德利(Robert W. Dudley)上周发布了一份声明，敦促民众投反对票。“与过去相比，开采的机遇更小，面临的挑战也更大，”声明中表示。“未来的长期投资需要财政方面的稳定性和确定性。”BP是英国海域的第二大油气投资者，仅次于荷兰皇家壳牌公司(Royal Dutch Shell)。
There are two main, diverging views on what Scottish victory would mean for the industry. One is that the Scottish government might pay closer attention, given energy’s economic importance to the country.
就苏格兰如果成功独立会对油气产业产生怎样的影响，业界产生了两种相互矛盾的主要观点。一种看法是，由于能源产业对苏格兰经济有重要意义，所以政府会更加密切地关注。
The other view, perhaps the majority one, holds that a period of uncertainty could hamper the industry since the North Sea is already at a crossroad. If Scotland does vote yes, there would be at least 18 months of transition before the country would be fully autonomous.
持另一种想法的人或许占多数。他们认为，鉴于北海资源已经走到了岔路口，不确定的时期恐怕会阻碍行业的发展。如果苏格兰公投的结果的确支持独立，实现完全自主需要至少一年半的过渡期。
“The larger players want things cleared up before proceeding,” said Alex Martinos, an analyst in London with Energy Intelligence, a research firm.
“大企业希望先等事情明确下来，再采取行动，”亚历克斯·马蒂诺斯(Alex Martinos)说。他是伦敦研究公司能源信息集团(Energy Intelligence)的分析师。
There are also doubts about whether a stand-alone Scottish government could afford to give the energy industry the new tax incentives that might be needed to continue production in the North Sea. About 40 billion barrels of oil and gas have been produced from the area since the 1970s. That leaves an estimated 12 billion to 24 billion barrels more, still a sizable amount — but it will be increasingly difficult and costly to extract.
独立后的苏格兰政府可能需要向能源产业提供新的税收优惠，才能鼓励它们继续在北海生产石油，但有人怀疑苏格兰政府是否有足够的财力。自从上世纪70年代以来，该区域已经开采了400亿桶油气。如此估计，剩余的储量还有120亿至240亿桶，规模仍然可观，但开采难度会越来越大，成本也会越来越高。
There is little doubt that managing this decline is going to be the main job of whatever government is in charge. The British government, which has long been something of an absentee landlord for the North Sea, has been spurred to action by the referendum’s threat.
无论施政的是哪个政府，应对油气资源的减少，毫无疑问都是一个重要职责。长期以来，英国政府对于北海都像是一个坐等收租的地主，现在面对公投的威胁，英国政府也在刺激之下有所行动。