A RENOVATED VICTORIAN ESTATE IN SOUTHWEST SCOTLAND
苏格兰西南部一栋翻修过的维多利亚庄园
$4.46 MILLION (2,620,000 POUNDS)
$446万美元（262万英镑，约合人民币2763万元）
Cradled at the foot of the rugged Galloway Hills of southwest Scotland, this estate includes a 13-bedroom, 25,000-square-foot country home, five estate houses and cottages, a garden, stables, equestrian facilities and outbuildings, all on about 100 acres of forested land. With almost a mile of frontage on the River Cree, the estate could be sold as five lots, but the owners, who bought it in 2000 and oversaw a five-year renovation, said they would do so only after attempting to sell it in its entirety.
这座庄园，依苏格兰西南部那座陡峭的盖勒韦山(Galloway Hill)山脚而建，包括一栋有13间卧室、面积25000平方英尺（约合2323平方米）的乡村别墅，五栋附属房屋和农舍，以及一座花园、几处马厩、驯马场和一些附属建筑。所有这些建筑，都坐落在大约100英亩（约合40公顷）的林地上。由于这片地块所临的克里河(River Cree)水岸长达一英里（约1.6公里），这处地产原本可以分为五个地块出售；但是，那两位在2000年买下这座庄园、并花五年时间翻修改造的业主说，他们还是先尝试把这座庄园整体出售，之后再考虑拆分。
“What’s magical about this property is it’s truly a kingdom,” said Raymond Butler, who owns the estate, historically called Penninghame House, with his wife, Marie. “When you’re in it, with the river and the beautiful trees and the garden, you don’t know that the outside world exists.”
“这座庄园的神奇之处就在于，它真是一座独立王国，”雷蒙德·巴特勒说，他和妻子玛丽亚(Marie)共同拥有这座在史上曾被称为Penninghame House的庄园。“有这条河流、这些美丽的树木和花园，当你身处其中的时候，就会忘记外面世界的存在。”
A small portion of the principal three-story mansion, including several rooms used as offices and a dining room, was constructed around 1700, Mr. Butler said. But the more lavish part of the gray-stone structure, which has battlements and was designed by the prolific Scottish architects Brown & Wardrop, was constructed in 1869, when the estate was near the height of its grandeur, with 37,000 acres, 40 farms and three parishes, he said. Originally built as the private home of a tea baron, Penninghame was also used as a hospital during World War I and was operating as a prison when the Butlers acquired it in 2000. The house is currently being used as a retreat for groups.
这座庄园的主楼是一栋三层高的宅邸。其中的一小部分，包括几个用作办公室的房间和一间餐厅，大约建于1700年，巴特勒说。不过，这栋灰石建筑中带有城垛的绝大部分结构都是建于1869年，由当时成果丰硕的苏格兰建筑师布朗和沃德罗普(Brown & Wardrop)设计，那时候，这座庄园几乎处于鼎盛时期，占地37000英亩（约14973公顷），有40座农场和3个教区，他说。Penninghame最初是作为一位茶叶大亨的私人住宅建造起来的，一战时期还充当过医院，巴特勒一家2000年购得此处时，这里正用作监狱。这栋房屋现在是许多团体的疗养之处。
The Butlers’ renovation included the restoration of historic details and the addition of contemporary amenities, such as central heating. In addition to 13 bedrooms, the mansion has eight full bathrooms and numerous powder rooms, five reception rooms, four kitchens, two large dining rooms, offices, a gymnasium, sauna and steam room and changing rooms. One wing can be used as a self-contained two-bedroom apartment. There are five ornate wood-burning fireplaces, including two that are “museum pieces with fabulous details,” Mr. Butler said.
巴特勒的翻修改造，既恢复了房屋原有的历史特色，又增添了一些当代的生活设施，比如中央暖气系统。这座豪宅除了有13间卧室，还有8间配备齐全的浴室，以及数个化妆间，5间会客室，4间厨房，2间大餐厅，几间办公室和一处健身房、一间桑拿房、一间熏蒸室、以及几间更衣室。侧翼可作一套设施齐全的双卧室公寓使用。这栋房屋还有5座华丽的燃木壁炉，包括两座“工艺精湛的博物馆珍品”，巴特勒说。
“They’re classic pieces that we think date to earlier than the house, but came in as secondhand pieces when the house was built,” he said.
“这两座壁炉都是传统式样的东西，我们觉得可以追溯到比这栋房屋还要早的时候，但在房屋修建期间，它们作为二手物品来到了这里，”他说。
Ceilings on the ground floor are at least 12 feet high and decorated with the original plasterwork. Most of the floors are original, of pitch pine and redwood imported from North America, while a grand staircase is carved oak, as is elaborate carved trim for eight-foot doors and wall paneling, Mr. Butler said. The rooms are large, but not quite as cavernous and drafty as those often found in Scottish mansions, he said.
房屋一楼的天花板至少有12英尺高（约3.7米），以原有的灰泥粉饰作为装饰。地面大部分地方铺的都是原来的木料，是从北美进口的脂松与红杉木；而主楼梯用的是雕花橡木，那扇边缘有精致雕花装饰的、高达8英尺（2.4米）的大门及墙面的护壁板也是一样，巴特勒说。这栋房屋里的房间面积都很大，但又不像苏格兰许多别墅中常见的那种房间那么空旷和透风，他说。
Penninghame’s grounds have a walled garden used to grow organic produce, along with greenhouses and mature trees, such as beech, oak and Wellingtonia. The five estate houses and cottages were built in different eras, and all are renovated and maintained, with multiple bedrooms, kitchens and bathrooms. There are two stable blocks, one renovated as a cooking school, as well as equestrian facilities, a riding arena and numerous other outbuildings. Approval has been obtained to add a pool, along with a pool house and boat house, Mr. Butler said.
Penninghame庄园内有一座带围墙的花园，那里以前常常种着有机作物。另外还有几座温室和一些成年的树木，例如山毛榉、橡树和巨杉。其中的五栋附属的房屋和农舍建于不同时期，都进行过翻修和维护，其中有数间卧室、厨房和浴室。这里还有两处马厩区，一处已改建为一座烹饪学校。另有几处驯马场、一处策骑场地、以及其它一些附属建筑。这处房产已获批准，可以增建一座游泳池，同时还可建造一座游泳馆和停放小船的仓库，巴特勒说。
Penninghame House is about three miles from Newton Stewart, a small town offering supermarkets, banks, hotels and a cottage hospital. The region is known for its outdoor recreational pursuits and the 300-square-mile Galloway Forest Park. Penninghame is about three miles from the beach and 45 minutes from the Turnberry Golf Course. An hour away, Dumfries, with around 30,000 residents, has the fast train to London, which takes a little over four hours, Mr. Butler said. Glasgow Prestwick Airport is about 90 minutes away, and Glasgow, the largest city in Scotland with around 600,000 people, is about two hours away, as is Glasgow Airport.
Penninghame庄园距离牛顿·斯图尔特(Newton Stewart)镇大约3英里（约4.8公里），小镇上有一些超市、银行、酒店和一家乡村医院。该地区以崇尚户外娱乐和那座面积达300平方英里（约777平方公里）的盖勒韦森林公园(Galloway Forest Park)而著名。Penninghame庄园距离海滩大约3英里（约4.8公里），去坦伯利高尔夫球场(Turnberry Golf Course)约45分钟。距此一小时路程的敦夫里斯郡(Dumfries)大约住着3万居民，那里有去伦敦最快的火车，只需四个小时多一点便可达到，巴特勒说。格拉斯哥普赖斯特维克机场(Glasgow Prestwick Airport)距此大约90分钟的路程，而苏格兰最大的城市、人口约60万的格拉斯哥距此约有2小时的路程，格拉斯哥机场也是一样。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
Scotland’s independence referendum in September has been looming over the property market there for the last 18 months, said Ran Morgan, the head of Scotland residential for the brokerage Knight Frank, which has this listing. Uncertainty about the outcome may have dampened the budding recovery of Scotland’s property market, brokers said.
苏格兰即将在九月举行的独立公投，在过去的18个月里已给当地的房地产市场蒙上了阴影，该房源的代理人、莱坊国际(Knight Frank)苏格兰住宅部的主管拉恩·摩根(Ran Morgan)说。人们对公投结果的疑虑，已经抑制了苏格兰地产市场刚刚出现的复苏迹象，经纪人们说。
“Generally, Scotland’s economy, along with the rest of the U.K., is improving, and there’s more money and more confidence, but people actually are waiting to see the outcome of this referendum before putting their hands in their pockets,” Mr. Morgan said.
“总的来看，苏格兰的经济状况和英国其它地方一样，正在不断改善之中，人们赚的钱越来越多，信心也在不断增强。但他们都还在等待此次公投的结果，然后才会把手伸进口袋。”摩根说。
Still, there are signs that the residential market has bottomed out since the global recession of 2008, and the market has stabilized, with home prices possibly even increasing 3 to 4 percent this year, said Andrew Perratt, the head of residential for Scotland and northern England at the brokerage Savills.
尽管如此，仍有一些迹象表明，此地的住宅市场已经离开了2008年全球经济衰退以来的谷底，目前该市场已经日趋稳定，房屋价格今年甚至可能上涨了3%至4%，第一太平戴维斯(Savills)经纪行的苏格兰及英格兰北部地区住宅部主管安德鲁·帕拉特(Andrew Perratt)说。
“Prices are still about 25 percent off their peak in 2007 and 2008, but we’re starting to see a recovery in our three prime hubs of the market — Edinburgh’s New Town, Glasgow’s West End and prime central Aberdeen,” he said. A two-bedroom apartment would typically sell for 300,000 to 400,000 pounds, or $510,000 to $680,000 in all three places.
“目前的房地产价格，比2007年和2008年的高峰期仍然低了25%，但我们看到三个集中的房地产大市场已经开始复苏——爱丁堡的新城区(Edinburgh’s New Town)，格拉斯哥的西区，和阿伯丁(Aberdeen)的中心区，”他说。在上述三个地产市场中，一套双卧室公寓一般会卖到30万英镑（约合人民币311万元）至40万英镑（约合人民币415万元），或51万美元至68万美元。
Because the price gap between homes in London and Scotland has grown such that a London home may be priced four to 10 times higher than a comparable home in Scotland, “supercommuters” have arrived in the Scottish home market, and that group of buyers is expected to grow, Mr. Perratt said.
伦敦与苏格兰之间的房地产价格差异已经太大，以至于一栋伦敦的住宅可能比苏格兰的一栋差不多的住宅价格高出4至10倍。因此，会有一些“超级通勤者”来到苏格兰市场中买房，这类买家群体的数量有望不断增长，帕拉特说。
“We’ve started to see them in the last couple of years, these people who come out of London and take advantage of the low property prices of Scotland, and they ‘supercommute’ back to London maybe three or four days a week,” he said. “You can fly down to London in an hour.”
“过去几年来，我们开始见到这样的买家，他们搬出伦敦，充分利用了苏格兰房地产价格低的好处，然后再‘不远千里地’回到伦敦上班，每周可能通勤三至四天，”他说，“你用一个小时就可以飞抵伦敦。”
While Scotland’s market for large country houses, typically bought by Londoners seeking quality of life, continues to languish since the global recession, the market for grand estates that typically cost from 3 million to 25 million pounds, or around $5 million to $43 million, has thrived, Mr. Perratt said.
苏格兰的大型乡村别墅一般由追求生活质量的伦敦人购买，这一地产市场虽然从这次全球经济衰退以来就在不断萎缩；但是那些价值通常从300万英镑（约合人民币3112万元）至2500万英镑（约合人民币2.6亿元），或500万美元至4300万美元的奢华地产市场却兴旺了起来，帕拉特说。
“We know from research that the world’s superwealthy like to buy sporting estates in Scotland,” he said. Middle Eastern and Russian buyers are interested in acquiring “trophy sporting estates.” he said.
“我们通过调研得知，世界超级富豪们都喜欢购买苏格兰带有户外运动场所的地产，”他说。中东与俄罗斯买家们都有兴趣收购“能彰显身份的户外运动地产。”他说。
WHO BUYS IN SCOTLAND
谁在苏格兰买房
Though the number of Londoners seeking weekend and retirement homes in Scotland has shrunk in recent years, foreign buyers from around the world continue to purchase homes in Scotland, brokers said. They are typically from northern Europe and Scandinavia, the United States and the Middle East, Mr. Morgan said.
虽然近些年来，那些为了周末度假或退休养老而在苏格兰买房的伦敦人已经大大减少，但还是会有来自世界各地的外国买家不断在苏格兰购置房产，经纪人们说。他们一般来自北欧和斯堪的纳维亚半岛，还有美国和中东，摩根说。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
There are no restrictions on foreign home buyers in Scotland. Estate agents are available to assist buyers, and typically charge a commission of 1.5 to 2 percent, Mr. Morgan said.
苏格兰对外国买房者没有限制。一些地产代理公司可以为买房者提供帮助，一般收取1.5%至2%的佣金，摩根说。
“It’s up to you if you want someone to act on your behalf or not, but if you’re a foreigner, I would suggest it,” he said.
“你可以自己决定要不要请经纪人，但如果你是一名外国人，我会建议你请一个。”他说。
Lawyers handle the paperwork, typically charging a few hundred pounds for a straightforward deal, while estate agents representing the seller commonly charge about 2 percent commission, Mr. Morgan said.
律师们负责处理书面工作，一笔简单交易通常会收取几百英镑的费用，而代表卖家的房地产经纪人通常收取2%的佣金，摩根说。
Buyers must pay stamp duty, which ranges from 1 to 7 percent depending on the home price — buyers purchasing homes over 2 million pounds are charged 7 percent — but those figures could change with Scotland’s referendum in September, Mr. Perratt said.
买家们必须支付印花税，这笔费用的比例从1%至7%不等，具体取决于该房产的价格——房产购买价格超过200万英镑（约合人民币2074万元）的买家，需缴纳7%的印花税——但那些数字可能会随苏格兰九月公投的结果发生变化，帕拉特说。
“If there is a ‘yes’ vote, we’ll need a lot of questions answered, and markets don’t like uncertainty,” he said. “During the two to three years of negotiation between the Scottish government and the British government to extricate themselves from the union, the whole property market could potentially freeze.”
“如果投票赞成独立，我们就得回答许多问题，而市场不喜欢不确定性，”他说，“在苏格兰政府与英国政府就脱离英联邦进行谈判的两、三年中，整个地产市场很有可能会冻结起来。”