EDINBURGH — Voters in Scotland rejected independence from Britain in a referendum that had threatened to break up their 307-year union, according to an official count on Friday from almost all voting areas.
爱丁堡——周五，对几乎所有选区进行的官方统计显示，苏格兰选民在公投中拒绝脱离英国，此次公投本可能会导致这一长达307年的联盟产生破裂。
Alex Salmond, the leader of the Scottish National Party and first minister of Scotland, who led the campaign for secession, conceded defeat in an address to cheering supporters. “I accept the verdict of the people,” he said. "And I call on all the people of Scotland to accept the democratic verdict of the people of Scotland.”
领导分离运动的苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)党魁、苏格兰首席大臣亚历克斯·萨尔蒙德(Alex Salmond)对欢呼的支持者发表讲话，承认失败。“我接受人民的决定，”他说。“我呼吁所有苏格兰人接受人民的民主决定。”
The vote was a decisive 55-45 against independence. Mr. Salmond stressed that, even though the anti-independence campaign had prevailed, some 1.6 million Scottish residents had voted to end the union, providing what he termed a “substantial” bloc of support to press for new powers promised by political leaders in London.
投票活动以55比45的决定性结果宣告独立失败。萨尔蒙德强调，即便反对派获胜，还是有大约160万苏格兰民众投票终结联盟，他称这给予他一股“重要的”支持力量，敦促英国政治领导人兑现放权承诺。
Before dawn, after a night of counting that showed a steady trend in favor of maintaining the union, Nicola Sturgeon, the deputy head of the pro-independence Scottish National Party, effectively conceded defeat for the “yes” campaign that had pressed for secession.
黎明之前，连夜计票的结果显示出支持维持联盟的平稳趋势，支持独立的苏格兰民族党副主席尼古拉·斯特金(Nicola Sturgeon)承认要求脱离英国的“独立”阵营失败。
“Like thousands of others across the country I’ve put my heart and soul into this campaign and there is a real sense of disappointment that we’ve fallen narrowly short of securing a ‘yes’ vote,” Ms. Sturgeon told BBC television, with 26 of 32 voting areas having reported results.
在26个投票区（共32个区）公布结果后，斯特金对BBC电视台表示，“就像全国各地的很多民众一样，我全身心投入这场运动，我们因为微小差距没能获胜，真的让人感到失望。”
Shortly after Ms. Sturgeon’s comments, Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland and seat of its Parliament, reported a huge gain for the "no" camp, with more than 194,000 voters rejecting independence compared with almost 124,000 in favor. Glasgow, the largest city in Scotland, had voted in favor of secession by a lower margin.
在斯特金发表评论后不久，苏格兰首府、苏格兰议会所在地爱丁堡公布结果，“反对”派大获全胜，逾19.4万名选民反对独立，将近12.4万名选民支持独立。苏格兰最大城市格拉斯哥支持分离，但优势较小。
The decision spared Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain a shattering defeat that would have raised questions about his ability to continue in office and diminished his nation’s standing in the world.
这一决定使英国首相英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)避免了惨败局面，失败的结果会引发对他继续执政能力的质疑，削弱英国在世界上的地位。
But while the result preserved a union molded in 1707, it left Mr. Cameron facing a backlash among some of his Conservative Party lawmakers. They were angered by the promises of greater Scottish autonomy that he and other party leaders made just days before the vote, when it appeared that the independence campaign might win. Some lawmakers called for similar autonomy for England itself, and even the creation of a separate English Parliament.
尽管这个结果让一个形成于1707年的联盟保留了下来，却也使卡梅伦不得不面对他所在的保守党议员的强烈不满。后者感到愤怒的是，在距离投票还有几天、独立派似乎有望取胜时，卡梅伦和党内其他领导人承诺让苏格兰享有更大的自治。一些议员呼吁让英格兰也享有类似的自治，甚至要求建立独立的英格兰议会。
The outcome headed off the huge economic, political and military imponderables that would have flowed from a vote for independence. But it also presaged a looser, more federal United Kingdom. And it was unlikely to deter Scottish nationalists from trying again.
公投结果还避免了苏格兰独立可能引发的不可想象的重大经济、政治和军事问题。但也预示着英国将变得更加松散和联邦化。此外，苏格兰民族主义者也不太可能因为这次的结果就放弃未来的尝试。
The passion of the campaign also left Scots divided, and Mr. Salmond was expected to call later on Friday for reconciliation after a vibrant exercise in democracy that had episodes of harshness and even intimidation.
这次公投引发的情绪也让苏格兰人分裂为两派，预计周五晚些时候萨尔蒙德将发出呼吁：在穿插着负面情绪甚至恫吓事件的一次激烈的民主练习后，双方需要达成和解。