The Museum of Modern Art’s decision to tear down the quirky little American Folk Art Museum, barely a decade old, has generated outrage; only the loss of Penn Station in 1963 and the fight that saved Grand Central in the 1970s have been more bitter.
现代艺术博物馆（Museum of Modern Art，即MoMA）决定拆除一座外形古怪、且不到十年历史的小建筑——美国民俗艺术博物馆(American Folk Art Museum)。此举激起了民愤。只有1963年宾州车站(Penn Station)被拆除时、及20世纪70年代拯救中央车站(Grand Central)的运动，比这次的更加激烈。
But of the structures that have come down since Penn Station fell, there are many candidates for greatest loss, from Beaux-Arts skyscraper to cast-iron loft building.
不过，在那些步宾州车站后尘的被拆建筑物中，还有很多也意味着最严重的损失。从布杂艺术(Beaux-Arts)风格的摩天大楼，到铸铁跃层式建筑等诸多种类。
It was on the smashed remains of Penn Station that Nathan Silver, an architect, put together the 1964 exhibit, “Lost New York,” which he later developed into the book of the same name. His book is the Old Testament for the New York preservation movement, with vanished architectural beauty on every page and indignation on every other. Half a century later, Mr. Silver is most aggrieved by the demolition in 1967 of the 1883 Metropolitan Opera House, on 39th and Broadway, in part because he went to the opera there when he was a teenager.
1964年，建筑师内森·席尔瓦(Nathan Silver)在宾州车站的废墟上举办了一场展览，称为“失落的纽约”(Lost New York)，后来还出版了同名书籍。他的书相当于纽约历史建筑保护运动的旧约圣经，每一页都记载了消失的建筑之美，每隔一页就会抒发胸中的愤懑。半个世纪后，提及1967年时被拆除的第39街和百老汇交汇处那座1883年落成的大都会歌剧院(Metropolitan Opera House)，他仍大感痛心。部分是因为，他年少时曾经时常去这家歌剧院。
It was, charitably, a brewery-big warehouse of a thing, without a fragment of elegance, but the historical associations were rich. The Metropolitan, intent on moving to Lincoln Center and concerned about competition, wanted the old house demolished, and so it went — with the acquiescence of the New York Landmarks Preservation Commission. Mr. Silver is still angry: “Hisses to Anthony Bliss, the company president,” he wrote in a recent email.
厚道地说，那栋建筑就像一座像酿酒厂大小的仓库，一点也不雅致，倒是历史价值很高。院方打算迁到林肯中心(Lincoln Center) ，出于对竞争的担心，想把老剧院拆掉，就那么做了——此事也经过了纽约市地标建筑保护委员会的默许。席尔瓦至今还耿耿于怀：“去他的安东尼·布利斯(Anthony Bliss)，那个剧院的总裁。”他最近在一封邮件中写道。
The architect Peter Samton, who was on the picket line at Penn Station, would nominate the Brokaw Mansions, where he also demonstrated. It was taken in a sudden weekend demolition in 1965 — Georgia fatwood on the glowing embers of the Penn Station debacle. The resulting blaze is generally credited with getting Mayor Robert Wagner to sign a law establishing the Landmarks Commission in the same year.
建筑设计师彼得·萨姆顿(Peter Samton)曾为宾州车站走上街头游行。在他心目中，布鲁克宅邸建筑群(Brokaw Mansions)的消失，同样意味着最严重的损失，他也为之游行过。1965年，这片建筑群在一个周末突遭拆除。当时宾州车站被拆的风波尚未平息，此举相当于推波助澜。它所引发的轩然大波迫使市长罗伯特·瓦格纳(Robert Wagner)在同年签署法案，成立了地标建筑委员会。
“Thank God for historic districts,” Mr. Samton says now, recalling the “horribly designed” white-brick apartment houses that swept over New York. He cites in particular the one just north of the Guggenheim Museum, which “clashes terribly with Frank Lloyd Wright’s wonder.”
“感谢上帝让我们有了历史街区，”萨姆顿说着，想起了曾在纽约风靡一时的那些“设计得很可怕”的白砖公寓楼。他特意提到坐落于古根海姆博物馆(Guggenheim Museum)正北方的一座公寓楼，“它和弗兰克·劳埃德·赖特（Frank Lloyd Wright，古根海姆博物馆的设计师——译注）的杰作极不搭调。”
Mr. Silver’s book included a chapter, “Landmarks in Danger,” with 18 structures seemingly in peril, including Sailors Snug Harbor on Staten Island and the Customs House at Bowling Green. Of the 18, these are among the 14 surviving; four are gone. Still, for a city that was a Wild West of demolition, the record seems pretty good.
在席尔瓦的书里，有一章的标题为“濒危的地标”，介绍了18座看起来岌岌可危的建筑，包括斯塔滕岛(Staten Island)上的水手避风港(Sailors Snug Harbor)和位于鲍灵格林(Bowling Green)的海关大楼。这18座建筑中有14座至今仍在；其余四座则已消失。不过，在一座盛行野蛮拆建的城市，这个纪录看起来已经很好了。
The four lost would certainly be declared landmarks now, including the ebullient Beaux-Arts-style Astor Hotel of 1904 in Times Square. Mr. Silver calls the full-block Astor an “obvious real estate bull’s-eye.” The arrow hit the mark in 1967.
那四座已消失的建筑，放在今天肯定会被指定为地标建筑了。其中包括富丽堂皇的布杂艺术风格阿斯特酒店(Astor Hotel)。该酒店在1904年落成于时代广场。席尔瓦将这栋横贯整个街区的阿斯特酒店，称为一处“显而易见的房地产靶子”。1967年，拆迁之箭命中了这处靶心。
Another of the four was the moody, slightly malevolent Ziegfeld Theater, a limestone structure built in 1927 at Sixth Avenue and 54th Street and designed by Joseph Urban. Described by Mr. Silver as “wacky, expressionist,” it fell in 1966.
另一座是风格阴郁、还略显阴森的齐格菲尔德剧院(Ziegfeld Theater)。它是一座石灰石建筑，落成于1927年，位于第六大道和第54街交汇处，是由约瑟夫·厄本(Joseph Urban)设计的。席尔瓦用“古怪、表现主义”这样的字眼来形容它。齐格菲尔德剧院于1966年被拆除。
James Bogardus’s 1849 cast-iron front Laing Stores, at Washington and Murray Streets, was also on Mr. Silver’s list. It was demolished in 1971, without Landmarks Commission interference, to make way for the Borough of Manhattan Community College. The good news was that the commission carted off and stored the 150 tons of facade. The bad news was that security was not very tight, if even present: Most of the parts were stolen in 1974, the balance in 1977, and sold for scrap.
詹姆斯·鲍格达斯(James Bogardus)1849设计的莱恩商店(Laing Stores)，也于席尔瓦的清单上赫然在列。莱恩商店位于华盛顿街和穆雷街(Washington and Murray Streets)的交汇处，正面墙体采用铸铁材料。1971年，该建筑在地标建筑委员会未加干涉的情况下被拆毁，以便为曼哈顿社区学院区(Borough of Manhattan Community College)腾出地方。好消息是，委员会装运并保存了150吨正面墙体。坏消息是，安保工作不太严密——就连有没有都是问题：大部分墙体在1974年被偷，其余的在1977年被当做废品卖掉了。
The fourth doomed building, and the tallest to fall, was the ebullient 1908 Singer Building, at Broadway and Liberty Street, designed by Ernest Flagg as a sort of high-rise version of the Astor Hotel. It was 612 feet high at the top of its bulbous tower, with Flagg’s trademark use of red brick, light masonry trim and lots of glass. In 1963 the preservationist Alan Burnham put the Singer in the same class as the Woolworth and Metropolitan Life towers.
第四座已消失的建筑也是其中最高的一座，它就是1908年落成的胜家大楼(Singer Building)，装潢富丽堂皇，位于百老汇和自由街(Liberty Street)交汇处，由欧内斯特·弗拉格(Ernest Flagg)设计，可以说是摩天大楼版的阿斯特酒店。大楼呈球茎状，楼高612英尺（约合187米），带有弗拉格标志性的、对红砖、轻砌切工艺和大量玻璃的运用。1963年，保护主义者艾伦·伯纳姆(Alan Burnham)将这座建筑与伍尔沃斯大厦(Woolworth)及大都会人寿保险大厦(Metropolitan Life)归为了同等级别。
But as the building was readied for demolition in 1967, Mr. Burnham, by then the executive director of the Landmarks Commission, told The New York Times that the agency could not act because “if the building were made a landmark, we would have to find a buyer for it.”
然而，当这座建筑在1967年面临拆除之际，时任地标建筑委员会执行理事的伯纳姆告诉《纽约时报》，委员会无法插手，因为“如果这座大楼被指定为地标，我们就必须为它寻找买家。”
The architect Richard Dattner was another young modernist to walk the picket lines in 1963, and he considers the greatest loss to be the disappearance of a humane scale in Midtown, “perhaps even more significant than the destruction of a single building, no matter how distinguished.”
建筑设计师理查德·达特纳(Richard Dattner)也是一名曾在1963年为宾州车站游行的青年现代主义者。他认为，中城区(Midtown)里人情味的消失，才是最严重的损失。“这可能比单个建筑物被拆毁更加严重，不管来头多大的建筑，也是一样。”
Mr. Dattner cites West 53rd Street, where the Museum of Modern Art gradually demolished the magnificent townhouses and forgettable brownstones, replacing them with a building that could be a corporate headquarters in the suburbs.
达特纳提到了西53街。在那里，现代艺术博物馆逐渐拆除了豪华的联排别墅(townhouse)，和容易被人遗忘的褐石大楼(brownstone)，取而代之的，是一座市郊常见的那种企业总部大楼。
This had the double-whammy effect of destroying, after a fashion, the 1939 museum itself, since its brave-new-world facade depended entirely upon interrupting the old-world fustiness around it. In retrospect, the Folk Art Museum would have fit in perfectly with the humane character of that vanished streetscape, like MoMA a little bit kicky in a sea of cozy familiarity.
从某种意义上讲，拆楼造成的损失是双向的，博物馆自身也受到了影响。因为，这座落成于1939年的建筑，其正面外观之所以能展现出一种“美丽新世界”的特征，完全是因为它打破了周边“旧世界”的陈腐气息。现在回想起来，民俗艺术博物馆与那片已逝街景中所蕴含的人文关怀，可能是很契合的；就和跻身一片温馨氛围而略显时髦的MoMA同理。
Of all these fallen buildings, which loss was the worst? The tallest? The oldest? Perhaps in another few decades the Darth Vader-like Folk Art Museum, too, would have been designated a landmark, but it seems that opportunity will never come.
在所有这些已被拆除的建筑中，哪一座的消失所造成的损失最重呢？是最高的那个？还是最古老的那个？或许再过区区几十年，外观好像达斯·维达（Darth Vadar，《星球大战》的主角之一，着黑色盔甲——译注）的民俗艺术博物馆也能被定为地标建筑，然而这一天或许不会到来了。