LONDON — The long-awaited report by the Iraq Inquiry Committee, led by John Chilcot, concluded that Blair and the British government underestimated the difficulties and consequences of the war and overestimated the influence he would have over President George W. Bush.
伦敦——人们期待已久的伊拉克调查委员会报告终于出台，这个由约翰·齐尔考特领导的委员会得出结论称，布莱尔和英国政府低估了伊拉克战争的困难和后果，高估了布莱尔可能对美国总统乔治·W·布什的影响力。
The result amounts to a broad indictment of Britain’s involvement in the Iraq War that overthrew Saddam Hussein and its aftermath, and it portrays Blair as trying without success to restrain Bush, push him to obtain full U.N. Security Council authorization and warn about the difficulties of the war — and deciding to go to war alongside Washington nonetheless.
这个结论在很大程度上谴责了英国参与推翻萨达姆·侯赛因的伊拉克战争及其后果，报告把布莱尔描述为试图约束布什，他曾推动布什获得联合国安理会的全体授权、并警告布什战争的困难，但未成功，尽管如此，他仍决定与美国一起去打仗。
Judging that Britain should stand by the United States, Blair told Bush in a private note as early as July 28, 2002, that “I will be with you, whatever.” Blair knew by January 2003 that Washington had decided to go to war to overthrow Saddam and accepted the U.S. timetable for the military action by mid-March, pushing only for a second Security Council resolution that never came, “undermining the Security Council’s authority,” the report concludes.
在布莱尔来看，英国应该与美国站在一起，早在2002年7月28日，他就曾私下对布什说：“无论如何，我将支持你。”到2003年1月时，布莱尔己知道华盛顿方面做出了出战伊拉克、推翻萨达姆的决定，并在3月中旬就接受了军事行动的美国时间表，他只是试图推动第二次安理会表决，但表决没有发生，报告的结论是，这“破坏了安理会的权威”。
The report says the lessons from the British government’s conduct are that “all aspects” of military intervention “need to be calculated, debated and challenged with the utmost rigor,” and decisions, once made, “need to be implemented fully.”
报告说，英国政府的行动所带来的教训是，对军事干预的“所有方面都需要以最严格的方式进行考量、辩论和质疑”，一旦做出决定，“需要得到充分实施。”
Chilcot, speaking for the inquiry as a whole, concluded that “sadly, neither was the case in relation to the U.K. government’s actions in Iraq.”
齐尔考特代表调查委员会得出结论表示，“不幸的是，就英国政府的伊拉克行动而言，这些都没有做到。”
“It is now clear that policy on Iraq was made on the basis of flawed intelligence and assessments,” Chilcot said. “They were not challenged, and they should have been.”
“现在很清楚的是，伊拉克政策是在有缺陷的情报和评估的基础上做出的，”齐尔考特说。“这些政策没有受到异议的挑战，而它们应该受到挑战。”
The report says: “At no stage was the hypothesis that Iraq might not have chemical, biological or nuclear weapons or programs identified and examined” by the Joint Intelligence Committee.
报告说，联合情报委员会“未在任何阶段确定及考虑伊拉克可能没有化学、生物或核武器，或没有在这些武器计划的假设。”
In the end, the British government “failed to achieve its stated objectives,” the inquiry concluded, and said that “Mr. Blair overestimated his ability to influence U.S. decisions on Iraq.”
调查的结论是，最终，英国政府“未能实现其提出的目标”，报道说，“布莱尔先生高估了他在伊拉克问题上对美国决策的影响力。”