BLACKPOOL, England — “Ramones forever!” C. J. Ramone yelled to a tightly packed crowd at the Rebellion Festivalhere earlier this month, and a little roar rippled through a sea of bright-pink mohawks, bleached-blond spikes — and more than a few balding heads.
英格兰，布莱克浦――“永远的雷蒙斯(Ramones)！”本月早些时候，C·J·雷蒙(C. J. Ramone)在布莱克浦举办的“叛逆音乐节”(Rebellion Festival)上，冲着挤得密不透风的人群叫道；咆哮在鲜艳的粉红色莫西干头与漂成金黄色的刺猬头的人海中蔓延开来——其中还点缀着不少正在谢顶的脑袋。
It was 40 years ago this summer that the Ramones flew to London and played a July 4 concert at the Roundhouse in Camden, an event that many cite as the moment that punk rock first took flight in Britain.
40年前的夏天，雷蒙斯乐队坐飞机来到伦敦，于7月4日在卡姆登的圆屋(Roundhouse)举办了一场演唱会，很多人认为这场演出标志着朋克摇滚在英国的起飞时刻。
A month earlier, a little-known London group called the Sex Pistols had played a gig at Lesser Free Trade Hall in Manchester. It has been said that there were only a few dozen people in attendance, but every one went out and started a band.
在这之前的一个月，一支罕为人知、名叫“性手枪”(Sex Pistols)的伦敦乐队在曼彻斯特的小自由贸易厅做了一场演出。据说当时只有几十个人出席，但是这些人后来都组了自己的乐队。
“I’ve said this quote before, but I’ll say it again,” Steve Diggle of the Buzzcocks said in a recent interview over a pint of Guinness in London. “If Jesus was born in Bethlehem, British punk was born in Manchester at that gig.”
“我以前说过这话，但是我要再说一遍，”“嗡嗡鸡”(Buzzcocks)的史蒂夫·蒂格尔(Steve Diggle)前不久在伦敦接受采访时喝着健力士黑啤酒说道，“如果耶稣是在伯利恒诞生的，那么英国朋克就是在曼彻斯特的那场演出上诞生的。”
The anniversary of that summer is being celebrated in Punk London, a citywide, yearlong series of exhibitions, talks and concerts supported by the mayor’s office and the National Lottery. Proving, perhaps, that punk’s rebellious spirit hasn’t yet receded into rock’s history books, this institutional endorsement of an anti-establishment movement has drawn skepticism, a little bit of ridicule and even some mild acts of resistance.
为了庆祝那个夏天的周年纪念，“朋克伦敦”(Punk London)活动目前正在伦敦全市举行，它将持续一年时间，由一系列展览、座谈和演出组成，该活动由市长办公室和国家彩票(National Lottery)提供支持。这个由公共机构赞助支持的反体制活动引来了怀疑和一点嘲笑，甚至是一些温和的抵制行动，这或许证明了朋克的反叛精神还没有隐没在摇滚历史书里。
“We heard our song on BBC News,” as part of the anniversary celebrations, Noel Martin, 61, of the band Menace, which formed in the mid-1970s, said outside the Blackpool festival grounds. The song, “G.L.C.,” which stood for Greater London Council, took aim at the city government, whose conservative members had called for a ban on punk concerts. “BBC banned that song 40 years ago, how come they’re playing it now?”
“我们在BBC新闻(BBC News)听到了我们的歌，”61岁的尼尔·马丁(Noel Martin)在布莱克浦的音乐节场地外面说，他来自20世纪70年代中期成立的“威胁”(Menace)乐队，他们的歌也成了这次庆祝活动的一部分。那首歌《G.L.C.》是“大伦敦市政会”的缩写，靶子直指市政府，其保守派曾经主张禁止朋克演唱会。“40年前，BBC曾经禁播过这首歌，怎么现在又放起它来了？”
In March, Joe Corré, the son of the fashion designer Vivienne Westwood and the Sex Pistols manager, Malcolm McLaren, vowed to burn 5 million pounds, or about $6.46 million, worth of punk memorabilia to protest what he saw as the co-opting of the movement. (The event, which is planned for this fall, was promptly added by a City Hall staff member to the Punk London website).
3月，时装设计师薇薇安·韦斯特伍德(Vivienne Westwood)和“性手枪”经纪人马尔科姆·麦克拉伦(Malcolm McLaren)的儿子乔伊·科尔(Joe Corré)认为这场纪念活动意在笼络人心，发誓烧毁价值500万英镑（约合646万美元）的朋克纪念品以示抗议（这个计划在今年秋天举行的活动，马上就被一位市政府工作人员列入了“朋克伦敦”的官方网站）。
In July, the singer Viv Albertine of the band the Slits visited the British Library for a talk connected to Punk London. While there, she stopped by the institution’s punk history exhibition to scrawl over the names of prominent female punk artists in permanent marker onto to the show’s signage.
7月，缝隙(Slits)乐队的维夫·艾伯丁(Viv Albertine)访问大英图书馆，参加一场“朋克伦敦”的座谈。她在图书馆举办的朋克历史展前驻足，用永久记号笔在展览的标志牌上潦草地写下了一些著名女性朋克艺术家的名字。
“What about the women!!” she wrote on a sign, crossing out the names of male punk groups and replacing them with female-driven acts like Siouxsie and the Banshees and X-Ray Spex.
“还有女人们呢！”她在一个标牌上写道，还涂掉了上面几个男子朋克乐队的名字，写上了几个由女人主导的乐队，比如“苏克西和女妖”(Siouxsie and the Banshees)和“ X-Ray Spex”之类的。
The concerts of the summer of ’76 proved a crucible: In the months that followed, punk broke into public consciousness across Britain. The Clash, the Buzzcocks and the Damned gained nationwide attention. And the Sex Pistols became tabloid sensations, both for their wild behavior and their boundary-pushing lyrics, particularly for “God Save the Queen,” an anti-monarchical screed that suggested the queen was the head of a “fascist regime.”
1976年夏天的那些演唱会成了催化剂：在接下来的几个月里，朋克开始闯进英国的公众视野。“冲撞”(Clash)、“嗡嗡鸡”和“该死的”(Damned)吸引了全国的目光。“性手枪”成了小报上的热门话题，既是因为他们疯狂的举止，也是因为他们过分的歌词，特别是那首《上帝保佑女王》(God Save the Queen)，这是一首反对君主制的宣言，说女王是“法西斯政权”的头子。
The reaction from the news media was swift: Sex Pistols tracks, including “Queen” and “Anarchy in the U.K.,” were banned from the BBC, and, after reports that band members had spit on and yelled at staff at Heathrow Airport, the Pistols were dropped from their record label, EMI.
新闻媒体迅速做出了反应：“性手枪”的歌在BBC遭到禁播，包括《上帝保佑女王》和《英国无政府主义》(Anarchy in the U.K.)，有报道称乐队成员在希斯罗机场冲工作人员吐口水、大叫大嚷，之后乐队被他们的唱片厂牌EMI开除。
The Sex Pistols dissolved in spectacular fashion months later, but the Ramones soldiered on for another 20 years (C. J. Ramone joined the band in the late ’80s).
几个月后，“性手枪”以花哨的方式解散，但是“雷蒙斯”挺过了接下来的20年时光（C·J·雷蒙是在80年代末期加入乐队的）。
Fans and musicians at the Rebellion Festival in Blackpool, a resort town on the Irish Sea, noted the incongruity of the establishment’s embracing of punk rock, but they said the British punk scene was vibrant and even growing.
布莱克浦是爱尔兰海(Irish Sea)海边的一处度假胜地，来这里参加“叛逆音乐节”的歌迷和乐手们注意到了体制对朋克的接纳显得多么不和谐，但他们也说，英国朋克场景仍然生机勃勃，甚至还在发展。
“We go to gigs every week here, Manchester, Birmingham,” Graham Norris, 51, a fan of punk, said over a hot dog on the first day of the festival.
“我们每星期都看演出，这儿、曼彻斯特、伯明翰，”音乐节第一天，51岁的朋克乐迷格雷厄姆·诺里斯(Graham Norris)边吃着热狗边说。
“There’s lots of good bands coming through, a lot of them,” said Mr. Norris, who carried a cane and had a single synthetic green dreadlock threaded onto his last wisp of natural hair. “Maybe their dads were punks, maybe their mothers were punks and they’ve picked up on it.”
“有不少好乐队出现，有很多呢，”诺里斯说道，他拄着一支拐杖，头发末端系着一根假的绿色雷鬼辫。“也许他们的爸爸是朋克，也许他们的妈妈是朋克，于是他们也就玩起了朋克。”
This festival’s lineup reflected that intergenerational spirit: Early bands like Agnostic Front and the Buzzcocks split the bill with newer acts like Youth Man and Angry Itch.
音乐节的阵容反映出这种几代人融合的精神：既有“不可知论前沿”(Agnostic Front)和“嗡嗡鸡”这样的早期乐队，也有“年轻男人”(Youth Man)和“愤怒渴望”(Angry Itch)这样的新乐队。
Outside the main venue, a group of young punk fans gathered on a stoop, smoking and swigging from liquor bottles. One young musician, Connor MacPherson, 18, whose band the Antiseptics played at Punk Weekender, a youth-focused concert series held at the Roundhouse in July to commemorate the anniversary of the Ramones concert, said that the punk spirit was particularly relevant now that conservatives control Britain’s government.
主会场之外，一群年轻的朋克歌迷聚集在走廊里，抽烟、大口喝酒。18岁的康纳·麦克弗森(Connor MacPherson)来自“抗菌剂”(Antiseptics)，他们曾在“朋克周末客”(Punk Weekender)上演出，这个系列演出面向年轻人，于7月份在圆屋举办，那是为了纪念“雷蒙斯”的那场演唱会。麦克弗森说，在英国政府由保守党控制的当下，朋克精神仍然有意义。
Describing himself as a “socialist with anarchist tendencies,” Mr. MacPherson got a rousing response from the others when he lobbed a shot at David Cameron, the former prime minister.
麦克弗森自称为“有无政府倾向的社会主义者”，他对前首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)的抨击获得了热烈的回应。
“We have got a government that doesn’t care about the youth, that doesn’t care about the working-class people,” he said. “We need punk more than ever — we need punk more than they needed it in 1977.”
“我们的政府根本不关心年轻人，也不关心劳工阶级，”他说。“我们比以往更需要朋克——我们比1977年的时候更需要朋克。”
Nella Bellinzoni, 62, was selling bags and hand-stitched sweaters in the halls of the festival. With blue hair sprayed vertical and reaching about a foot above her head (she said it took her around one and a half cans of hair spray and three hours to achieve the look), Ms. Bellinzoni, who described herself as an “old punk, from the beginning,” expressed a sunny vision of punk’s future.
62岁的奈拉·贝林佐尼(Nella Bellinzoni)在音乐节的场馆里贩卖包袋和手工编织的毛衣。她的头发染成蓝色，用发胶固定成垂直的形状，大概有一英尺高（她说她用了一罐半的发胶，花了三个小时才弄成这样子）。贝林佐尼说自己是“老朋克，从一开始就是”，她看好朋克的未来。
“It’s getting more and more stronger,” Ms. Bellinzoni, a native of Italy who lives near Blackpool, said. “All the kids, when their father or mother was punk, then they’re punk as well.”
“它变得愈来愈强大，”贝林佐尼说，她是意大利人，现在住在布莱克浦附近。“这些孩子们的爸爸或者妈妈是朋克，然后他们也就成了朋克。”
One parent-child duo was Simon Reynolds, 50, who took a train from London to Blackpool and his 15-year-old son, Oscar.
这样的亲子二人组中就包括了50岁的西蒙·雷诺兹(Simon Reynolds)，他带着15岁的儿子奥斯卡(Oscar)坐火车从伦敦来到布莱克浦。
Mr. Reynolds, who started listening to punk in the early ’80s, said he thought that the movement had cleaned up its act somewhat since the early years and grown a “conscience.”
雷诺兹是从80年代初开始听朋克的，他说他认为朋克运动自从早年阶段以来，已经在某种程度上净化了自己的行为，发展为一种“良知”。
Oscar, with spiky green hair and a T-shirt advertising the punk band Gnarwolves, said he became interested in punk about eight years ago, through skateboarding and through his father. He said that he appreciated the sympathy for the working classes, and also that he liked that the music was different from what his friends listened to.
奥斯卡留着绿色的刺猬头，穿着朋克乐队“Gnarwolves”的T恤，他说自己大约是在八年前，通过玩滑板和父亲的渠道开始对朋克感兴趣的。他说自己欣赏朋克对劳工阶级的同情，而且喜欢这种和朋友们都在听的东西截然不同的音乐。
Asked whether he ever felt strange dabbling in the same music scene as his father, he looked briefly incredulous. “No, no,” he said with a chuckle, before his face got serious and he added, “My dad’s rad.”
被问到和自己的父亲置身同一个音乐场景里，会不会觉得奇怪，他看上去稍微有点狐疑。“不，不，”他咯咯笑着说，然后板起脸来说道，“我爸爸很棒的。”