LONDON — Britain’s Serious Fraud Office said on Monday that it had opened a criminal investigation into accusations of bribery and corruption at Rolls-Royce, the maker of jet engines and other power systems.
伦敦——英国严重欺诈调查署(Serious Fraud Office)周一宣布，正式展开针对罗尔斯·罗伊斯(Rolls-Royce)的贿赂与腐败指控的刑事调查。这家公司是喷气式飞机引擎等动力系统的生产商。
The government agency, which is responsible for prosecuting large-scale corruption and other crime, is stepping up a long-running inquiry into the company, one of the largest in Britain. The agency had spent about a year weighing the evidence before its director, David Green, decided there were sufficient grounds to begin a criminal investigation.
该政府机构负责大规模腐败等罪行的公诉。罗尔斯·罗伊斯是英国最大的企业之一，而此次行动是针对其长期调查的升级。严重欺诈调查署耗费了一年左右的时间来权衡掌握的证据，署长戴维·格林(David Green)最终决定，有充足的理由开启刑事调查。
Rolls-Royce said on Monday that it had been notified by the fraud office “that it has now commenced a formal investigation.”
罗尔斯·罗伊斯周一表示，已获调查署的通知，“现已开始正式调查。”
The case threatens to tarnish the reputation of one of Britain’s few world-leading technology companies. Rolls-Royce engines power 30 types of civil airliners as well as 24 military engine programs. The company is also a major maker of turbines for the electrical power and energy industries.
该公司是英国少数几个世界领先的科技企业之一，而本案或许会令其声誉受损。罗尔斯·罗伊斯引擎装配在30种民航客机上，并为24个军用引擎项目提供动力。该公司还是电力与能源行业的涡轮机大生产商。
Financial analysts were not expecting immediate fallout. “This news isn’t a surprise and should not detract from a company with such a healthy long-term outlook,” said Ben Bourne, an aerospace analyst at Liberum Capital, a London brokerage firm. Shares of Rolls-Royce closed at 1,249 pence in London trading.
金融分析人士预计，此举不会立即招致严重影响。“这则新闻并不令人意外，应该不会损害到长期前景如此健康的一家企业，”伦敦经纪行Liberum资本(Liberum Capital)的航空航天业分析师本·伯恩(Ben Bourne)说。罗尔斯·罗伊斯在伦敦交易的股票当天收于1249便士（约合124元人民币）。
Rolls-Royce said last December that it had been asked by the Serious Fraud Office about “allegations of malpractice in Indonesia and China” and acknowledged that its own investigations had identified “matters of concern in these and in other overseas markets.”
罗尔斯·罗伊斯去年12月宣布，公司受到严重欺诈调查署的问询，针对的是“在印度尼西亚和中国的行为不端指控”。公司还承认，其内部调查找出了“两地及其他一些海外市场值得关切的问题”。
At the time, the company said it had passed information to the fraud office “relating to concerns about bribery and corruption involving intermediaries in overseas markets.” The concerns appear to center on payments made to agents regarding contracts in China, Indonesia and other markets that the company has declined to identify.
罗尔斯·罗伊斯表示，当时提交给了调查署“涉及到海外市场中介的贿赂与腐败问题”的信息。这些问题的焦点似乎是在某些市场上与合同有关的中介费用，而涉事地为中国、印尼，以及公司拒绝透露的其他一些市场。
As it has for many companies, China has become a major market for Rolls-Royce in recent years, accounting for 9 percent of the company’s global revenues of £12.2 billion, ($20 billion) in 2012. The company reported strong growth for the half-year ending in June. Revenue rose 27 percent year-on-year to £7.3 billion, while pretax earnings increased 34 percent to £840 million.
与许多企业一样，中国近年来成为了罗尔斯·罗伊斯的一大市场，在其122亿英镑的2012年全球总营收中，中国贡献了9%。根据其财报，公司今年上半年增长强劲。营收同比攀升27%，达73亿英镑；税前收益增长34%，至8.4亿英镑。
In January, Rolls-Royce appointed David Gold, a former senior partner at the law firm Herbert Smith, to lead a review of the company’s compliance procedures. He continues to advise the company.
今年1月，罗尔斯·罗伊斯委托史密夫律师事务所(Herbert Smith)的前高级合伙人戴维·戈尔德(David Gold)牵头对公司的合规程序进行评估。他目前继续在为公司提供咨询服务。
Rolls-Royce also said it had strengthened its compliance procedures in recent years. “I want to make it crystal clear that neither I nor the board will tolerate improper business conduct of any sort,” the company’s chief executive, John Rishton, said in a statement last December.
罗尔斯·罗伊斯还表示，近年来已加强了内部的合规程序。首席执行官约翰·里斯顿(John Rishton)在去年12月的声明中称，“我希望非常明确地指出，无论是我本人，还是董事会，都不会容忍任何不恰当的商业行为。”