With a haste unusual in the royal family’s handling of such matters, Prince William and his wife, the former Kate Middleton, announced Wednesday that they had named their 2-day-old son George Alexander Louis — thus setting him on a course, assuming he ascends the throne, to one day become King George VII.
周三，威廉王子(Prince William)和本名为凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)的妻子宣布已为出生两天的儿子取名为乔治·亚历山大·路易(George Alexander Louis)，这个速度在王室对类似事件的处理中很不寻常。假设能继承王位，他就可能在有一天成为乔治七世国王(King George VII)。
On his birth on Monday, the infant became third in line to the throne, after his grandfather Prince Charles and his father. Since Charles is 64 and William is 31, and Queen Elizabeth II appears in robust health at 87, the reign of a new King George, with all the resonance the name carries in the 1,000-year history of the British monarchy, could be decades away.
周一一出生，这名婴儿就成了排在他的祖父查尔斯王子(Prince Charles)和父亲之后的王位第三顺位继承人。鉴于查尔斯目前64岁，威廉34岁，而87岁的伊丽莎白二世女王(Queen Elizabeth II)好像也身体硬朗，新一代乔治国王的统治可能是数十载以后的事。在已有1000年历史的英国君主政体中，乔治国王这个名字能让人回想起很多事情。
The announcement from Kensington Palace, where William and Kate will make their London home, said that the infant would be formally known as Prince George of Cambridge. The title derives from the decision of Queen Elizabeth to revive the titles of Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, unused since Queen Victoria’s time, and bestow them on William and Kate when they married in April 2011.
威廉和凯特是在肯辛顿宫(Kensington Palace)宣布声明的，肯辛顿宫将是这对夫妇在伦敦时的家。声明称，婴儿的正式称呼将为剑桥乔治王子(Prince George of Cambridge)。这个头衔源于伊丽莎白女王重新启用剑桥公爵和剑桥公爵夫人的头衔，并在威廉和凯特于2011年4月结婚时将其授予二人的决定。自维多利亚女王(Queen Victoria)时代以来，这两个头衔就没再被使用过。
The official naming announcement was brief, and with William, Kate and the baby having left London at lunchtime to stay with Carole and Michael Middleton, Kate’s parents, at their secluded country home west of London, the couple were unavailable for any comment on their decision. But the choice of George, at least, came as little surprise, since it had led the odds in Britain’s betting shops.
关于为孩子起名的官方声明很简短，并且威廉、凯特和宝宝在午饭时间已经离开伦敦，前去和凯特的父母卡罗尔·米德尔顿(Carole Middleton)和迈克尔·米德尔顿(Michael Middleton)相聚，所以无法联系到这对夫妇请他们对起名的决定置评。凯特的娘家位于伦敦西部的乡下，很僻静。但鲜有人会对最终选择乔治这个名字感到意外，因为在英国的博彩店，这是下注者首选的名字。
Beyond its historical resonance — there have been six King Georges, and one, George III, has come down in history for his bouts of madness, and for having lost the war to keep the American colonies — George’s status as the bookies’ front-runner derived from compelling sentimental significance to the royals. Queen Elizabeth’s father, who died of lung cancer in 1952, was King George VI.
历史上已有六位乔治国王，其中的乔治三世(George III)因为精神失常以及在位期间输掉了保卫北美殖民地的战争，在历史上很出名。除了引发的历史的回想之外，乔治之所以成为下注者首选，还因为它对王室有着难以磨灭的情感意义。伊丽莎白女王的父亲便是1952年因肺癌去世的乔治六世。
His story was captured in the Oscar-winning film “The King’s Speech,” which traced the struggles that Bertie, as he was known in the family until older brother David quit the throne as Edward VIII, confronted in overcoming a chronic stammer and a profound diffidence about his fitness to be king.
奥斯卡获奖影片《国王的演讲》(The King’s Speech)讲述的便是他的故事。影片追溯了他所经历的一些艰难时刻，克服长期的口吃、以及对自己能否胜任国王职责的深刻怀疑。在他的弟弟大卫(David)、即爱德华八世(Edward VIII)退位之前，他在家族里被称作伯蒂(Bertie)。
Though he was on the throne through World War II and won widespread admiration for his steadiness, members of his family, particularly his wife, also Queen Elizabeth, and his daughter, the present queen, are said to believe that his early death, at 56, resulted partly from the strains of a kingship that he had never wanted.
尽管他在位期间带领英国经历了二战，且凭借自己的稳健赢得了广泛赞誉，但据说他的家人，尤其是他的妻子伊丽莎白王后(Queen Elizabeth)和女儿——即现任女王——相信，他以56岁的年纪过早离世，在一定程度上是他从未希望成为国王却走上王位带来的压力导致的。
Prince William, who lost his own mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, in a Paris car crash when he was 15, is said by close friends to have a deep affection for his grandmother, Queen Elizabeth. She was with him and his brother, Prince Harry, when the news of their mother’s death reached the royal family at their summer retreat at Balmoral Castle in Scotland. The friends said William wanted his son to be named after his great-grandfather as a token of his affection for the queen.
据威廉王子的密友称，15岁时因巴黎的一起撞车事故而失去母亲威尔士王妃(Princess of Wales)戴安娜(Diana)的威廉，对祖母伊丽莎白女王有着深厚的感情。当在苏格兰巴尔莫勒尔堡(Balmoral Castle)避暑消夏的女王一家得到威廉和弟弟哈里王子(Prince Harry)的母亲去世的消息时，她正和兄弟俩在一起。前述友人表示，威廉希望以曾祖父的名字给自己的儿子命名，以表达自己对女王的感情。
The naming announcement came a few hours after Queen Elizabeth had been driven to Kensington Palace to see the new baby for the first time. Royal officials said it was the first time since 1894, on the birth of the future King Edward VIII, son of King George V and Queen Mary, in the twilight of Queen Victoria’s reign, that a reigning monarch had met a great-grandchild born in the line of direct succession to the throne.
在发声明表示已给孩子起名的几个小时前，伊丽莎白女王首次乘车前往肯辛顿宫看望新出生的宝宝。负责王室事务的官员称，这是乔治五世(King George V)和玛丽王后(Queen Mary)的儿子、即后来的爱德华八世在维多利亚女王统治末期的1984年出生后，首位在位君主见到王位顺位继承人中的曾孙。
Friends of Kate’s said that the choice of Alexander for a second name — a name not common among the royals — reflected her strong preference. But the third name, Louis, royal officials said, reflected another strong royal sentiment, the fondness of Prince Charles for Lord Louis Mountbatten, who as an admiral led Britain’s armed forces.
凯特的朋友则说，选择亚历山大作名字明显是出自她的意愿，这个名字在王室成员中不常见。不过，负责王室事务的官员称，路易这个名字反映出了另一个强烈的王室情感，即查尔斯王子对统领英国武装力量的海军上将路易·蒙巴顿勋爵(Lord Louis Mountbatten)的热爱。
He was assassinated by an Irish Republican Army bomb in 1979. Biographers of Prince Charles, whose boyhood was marked by a distant relationship with his parents, have said that he regarded Lord Mountbatten as a surrogate father.
1979年，蒙巴顿勋爵遭爱尔兰共和军(Irish Republican Army)炸弹袭击后身亡。查尔斯王子的传记作者表示，他在童年时代与父母关系疏远，蒙巴顿勋爵被他视为养父。