LONDON — He spent nearly 20 years pushing for Britain to leave the European Union, and having succeeded in his aim, he is now taking his leave.
伦敦——他花了近20年的时间来推动英国离开欧盟，这个目标实现之后，现在他要功成身退了。
Nigel Farage, the politician who probably did more than any other to force the referendum on British membership in the European Union, resigned Monday as leader of the right-wing populist U.K. Independence Party, saying “I’ve done my bit.”
奈吉尔·法拉奇(Nigel Farage)可能是强行推动英国脱欧公投的政界人士中最积极的一位，本周一他宣布辞去右翼民粹主义政党英国独立党（U.K. Independence Party，简称UKIP）领袖职位，他说：“我的责任已经尽到。”
Farage, 52, has quit the post before — twice. But Monday he sounded as if he meant it this time, telling reporters that “my political ambition has been achieved” and that “I want my life back.”
现年52岁的法拉奇之前也曾辞去这个职位——辞了两次。但本周一，他似乎表示这一次是来真的，法拉奇对记者说，“我的政治抱负已经实现”，并且“我希望有自己的生活”。
Farage’s push for a referendum, first as a member of the European Parliament and then as the leader of the party, known as UKIP, arguing that Britain could manage immigration and regain full sovereignty only from outside the European Union, struck a deep chord with many Britons.
法拉奇最初是作为欧洲议会成员，之后又作为UKIP领袖推动脱欧公投，他认为英国只有在脱离欧盟之后，才可以应对移民问题，重新彻底掌握主权，这引起了很多英国人的深度共鸣。
Within UKIP, Farage was not universally loved. Internal critics complained of an inability to delegate, and his rivalry with the more cerebral Douglas Carswell, UKIP’s only member of Britain’s Parliament, developed into guerrilla warfare. On Monday, Carswell greeted Farage’s resignation announcement by posting on Twitter a smiling emoji wearing sunglasses.
在UKIP党内，法拉奇并未受到普遍爱戴。党内批评者抱怨他不会用人，而且他和唯一进入议会的UKIP党人、更加理性的道格拉斯·卡斯韦尔(Douglas Carswell)之间的对抗已经发展成撕斗。本周一，法拉奇宣布辞职后，卡斯韦尔在推特上贴出一个戴着太阳镜的微笑表情。
Farage specialized in a blunt political discourse that appealed both to right-wing conservatives and to those who felt left behind in an increasingly polarized country.
法拉奇善于使用直率的政治话语，既能吸引右翼保守派，又能打动那些感到被这个越来越两极化的国家抛弃的人。
Opponents frequently accused him of racism and xenophobia, most recently just before the referendum when he unveiled a poster depicting refugees at the Croatian border under the slogan “Breaking Point.” Farage denied the charge and responded that he was the real “victim” of abuse.
对手经常指责他有种族主义和仇外心理，最近，就在公投进行前，他推出了一张海报，是难民在克罗地亚边境的画面，上方写着口号——“临界点”。法拉奇否认这种指责，回应说他才是真正的“受害者”。
The vote to quit the bloc was an enormous and unexpected victory for Farage, a politician who delights in his own lack of political correctness, discipline and bland sound bites. He infuriated others in the European Parliament last week, telling them they were “in denial” and gloating over the victory, which he saw as a blow by “little people” against the elite.
对于法拉奇而言，投票脱离欧盟是一个巨大的胜利，也有些出乎他的意料。法拉奇以自己缺乏政治正确性、自律和乏味的套话为荣。上周，他激怒了欧洲议会的其他人，因为他说他们“拒绝接受现实”，并炫耀英国脱欧的胜利，称其为“小人物”对权贵阶层的一记重击。
“Love him or loathe him — and many people do — it is simply a fact that we would not have had the referendum vote, nor have won it, without him,” said Gawain Towler, a longtime ally and spokesman for UKIP.
“不管你是爱他还是恨他，一个简单的事实是，如果没有他，我们就不会进行全民公投，也不会赢得这场公投，”法拉奇的长期盟友、UKIP发言人格维恩·陶勒(Gawain Towler)说。