LONDON — At a time when Western leaders are clamoring for greater powers to conduct covert surveillance, a prankster in Britain has turned the table on the watchers, securing a private cellphone number for a top intelligence chief and apparently making a separate phone call to the prime minister in his name, British officials acknowledged on Monday.
伦敦——当西方领导人呼吁获得更大权力，进行秘密监视时，英国的一名恶作剧者却以牙还牙，获取了一名情报机构负责人的私人手机号码，并以他的名义给首相打电话，英国官员周一承认了上述事实。
The unidentified caller then phoned a tabloid newspaper on Sunday to boast. He told the tabloid, The Sun, that he had been high on alcohol and drugs when he persuaded GCHQ, the British electronic surveillance agency, to give him a cellphone number for its director, Robert Hannigan.
周日，这位匿名人士给一家小报打电话吹嘘。他告诉《太阳报》(The Sun)，他是在喝酒吸毒后飘飘欲仙的状态下，打电话说服英国电子监控机构政府通讯总部(Government Communications Headquarters，简称GCHQ），将其负责人罗伯特·汉尼根(Robert Hannigan)的手机号码给他的。
Later, an unidentified caller widely believed to be the same person pretended to be Mr. Hannigan in a separate call to Prime Minister David Cameron.
后来，一位匿名致电者冒充汉尼根给英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)又打了一个电话，目前普遍认为是同一个人。
“I’ve just made complete monkeys out of GCHQ; I’ve got the mobile number of the director,” the caller, who was not identified by name, told the newspaper, referring to the Government Communications Headquarters agency, which collaborates closely with the National Security Agency in the United States. GCHQ also works with Britain’s domestic and overseas intelligence services.
这名尚未确认姓名的致电者告诉《太阳报》，“我刚刚耍了GCHQ；我拿到了他们总监的手机号码。”GCHQ与美国的国家安全局(National Security Agency)密切合作，还与英国的本土和海外情报机构开展合作。
“I’m definitely going to do it again,” he said after calling GCHQ early on Sunday, the newspaper reported. “It was so easy.”
“我肯定会再试一次，”该报报道称，他周日早些时候给GCHQ打完电话后说。“这太简单了。”
The Sun described the caller as well spoken and in his 20s, and it said that he had pretended to be a representative of Mr. Cameron’s office at 10 Downing Street when he called the switchboard at GCHQ. He was given a private cellphone number for Mr. Hannigan, which he used to call him. The spy chief became suspicious and hung up.
《太阳报》称来电者口才很好，20多岁，该报称他给GCHQ总机打电话时谎称自己是唐宁街10号卡梅伦办公室的代表。他获得了一个汉尼根的私人手机号码，然后给汉尼根打了电话。这位间谍组织负责人心生怀疑，挂断了电话。
“Following two hoax calls to government departments, a notice has gone out to all departments to be on the alert for such calls,” a government statement said. “In the first instance, a call was made to GCHQ which resulted in the disclosure of a mobile phone number for the director.”
“由于政府部门两次接到欺诈电话，目前已经向所有部门发出通知，告诉他们对此类电话提高警觉，”政府声明称。“在第一个案例中，GCHQ接到了一个电话，最后导致总监的手机号码被泄露。”
“The mobile number provided is never used for calls involving classified information,” the statement said. “In the second instance, a hoax caller claiming to be the GCHQ director was connected to the prime minister.”
“这个手机号从未用于涉及机密信息的电话，”声明称。“在第二个案例中，骗子打电话谎称自己是GCHQ总监，并与首相接通电话。”
“The prime minister ended the call when it became clear it was a hoax,” it said.
声明称，“在意识到这显然是个骗局后，首相便挂断了电话。”
In neither instance was delicate information disclosed, it added.
声明补充道，两个案例均未泄露重要信息。
The intelligence agency and the prime minister’s office “take security seriously,” the statement said, “and both are currently reviewing procedures following these hoax calls to ensure that the government learns any lessons from this incident.”
GCHQ和首相办公室“非常重视安全问题，”声明称，“双方目前都在审核这些欺诈电话涉及的程序，以确保政府能从此事当中吸取一定教训。”
The episode came as Western spy chiefs are seeking greater powers to monitor social media sites and other Internet services to keep an eye on communications among terrorists after the attacks this month on a satirical newspaper, a police officer and a kosher supermarket in the Paris area.
此时，西方情报机构的负责人正在加大监控社交媒体网站和其他互联网服务的力度，以观察恐怖分子之间的通信。本月早些时候，巴黎地区的一家讽刺性报刊、一名警察和一家犹太洁食超市遭到袭击。