LONDON — Aqsa Mahmood’s family saw her as an intelligent and popular teenager who helped care for her three younger siblings and her grandparents at her home in Scotland. She listened to Coldplay, read Harry Potter novels and drank Irn Bru, a Scottish soft drink.
伦敦——在阿克萨·马哈茂德(Aqsa Mahmood)家人的眼中，她是一个聪明、受人喜爱的孩子，她在苏格兰的家中帮助照顾三个年幼的弟弟妹妹和祖父母。她听酷玩乐队(Coldplay)，读《哈利·波特》(Harry Potter)系列小说，喝苏格兰的软饮料Irn Bru。
She aspired to be a pharmacist or a doctor, and they did not expect her to leave home in November 2013 to go to Syria, where the authorities now say she is one of the most active recruiters of young British women to join the Islamic State.
她渴望成为一名药剂师或医生，因而他们没有预料到她会在2013年11月离家前往叙利亚。当局称她是叙利亚地区最活跃的招募人员之一，负责吸引英国的年轻女性加入伊斯兰国(Islamic State)。
The authorities are investigating possible links between Ms. Mahmood, who goes by the name Umm Layth (meaning Mother of the Lion), and the disappearance last week of three teenagers from London. They, too, are believed to have traveled to Syria to join the terrorist group also known as ISIS or ISIL.
当局正在调查马哈茂德与上周三名伦敦青少年失踪事件之间可能存在的联系，马哈茂德的网名为乌姆·莱思（Umm Layth，意为狮子的母亲)。据信，失踪的三名青少年也已经前往叙利亚，加入这个又被称为ISIS或ISIL的恐怖组织。
The apparent trend of studious, seemingly driven young women leaving home to join violent jihadists has become disturbingly familiar.
勤奋、貌似具有强烈信念的女孩离开家园加入暴力圣战分子队伍，这看似成为了一种趋势，此类事件不断发生，令人感到不安。
A Metropolitan Police official said on Monday that one of the girls, Shamima Begum, sent a Twitter message to a woman on Feb. 15, a couple of days before they left Britain, but declined to disclose her name.
周一，伦敦警察厅(Metropolitan Police)的一名官员表示，其中一名女孩沙米玛·贝居姆 (Shamima Begum) 在2月15日，也就是她们离开英国的两天前，通过Twitter向一名女性发送过消息，但他们拒绝透露这名女性的姓名。
Experts who track jihadist activity online, including Audrey Alexander at the International Center for the Study of Radicalization, in London, have identified that woman as Ms. Mahmood, 20, who left her home in Glasgow in November 2013.
伦敦激进化研究国际中心(International Center for the Study of Radicalization)的奥德雷·亚历山大(Audrey Alexander)等追踪圣战分子网络活动的专家确认，这名女性是20岁的马哈茂德，她于2013年11月离开了位于格拉斯哥的家。
She is now thought to live in Raqqah, Syria, the de facto capital of the Islamic State, where she married a jihadist and acts as a virtual den mother offering sometimes stern advice to her peers who would follow in her footsteps.
据信，她现在生活在叙利亚的拉卡——伊斯兰国事实上的首都，她在那里嫁给一名圣战分子，实际上充当了一名训导员，会为那些追随其脚步的同龄人提供建议，其建议有时会显得颇为严厉。
As the families of the three missing girls made tearful appeals for their daughters to return home, Ms. Mahmood’s family also issued a statement last weekend addressed to their own daughter, whom they called a “disgrace.” They said that they were “full of horror and anger” that she “may have had a role to play” in recruiting the girls for the Islamic State.
三名失踪女孩的家人泪流满面地呼吁她们回家，马哈茂德的家人也在上周末发表声明，对他们自己的女儿喊话，他们称自己的女儿是一个“耻辱”。他们表示，她在为伊斯兰国招募年轻女性成员方面“或许发挥了一定作用”，这让他们感到“非常恐惧和愤怒”。
“Your actions are a perverted and evil distortion of Islam,” the family said in its statement, released through their lawyer, Aamer Anwar. “You are killing your family every day with your actions, they are begging you to stop if you ever loved them.”
“你的所作所为是对伊斯兰教的邪恶扭曲，”马哈茂德的家人通过律师艾米尔·安瓦尔(Aamer Anwar)发表声明称。“你每天都在用你的行动伤害你的家人，如果你真的曾经爱过他们，他们求你停止活动。”
The young women — Kadiza Sultana, 16; Ms. Begum, 15; and Amira Abase, 15 — were described by a classmate as studious, argumentative and driven, not unlike Ms. Mahmood. Ms. Sultana’s Twitter feed showed that she followed many accounts of jihadist fighters. Ms. Begum, who sent a Twitter message to Ms. Mahmood, asked her own followers before she left to “keep me in your duas,” or prayers. (Their accounts were recently disabled.)
这三名年轻女孩的同学称，16岁的卡迪扎·苏丹娜(Kadiza Sultana)、15岁的贝居姆，以及15岁的阿米拉·阿巴斯(Amira Abase)非常用功、好辩，为信念所驱使，这与马哈茂德很像。苏丹娜的Twitter账号显示，她关注了很多圣战战斗人员的账号。贝居姆通过Twitter给马哈茂德发送过信息，她在离开前恳求自己的粉丝“为我祈祷”。（她们的账号最近遭禁。）
The teenagers told their families on Feb. 17 that they would be out for the day, but security camera video at Gatwick Airport, near London, showed that the girls had boarded a Turkish Airways flight to Istanbul, and the Metropolitan Police in London said Tuesday that the girls had arrived in Syria.
2月17日，这三名女孩告诉家人她们会外出一天，但伦敦附近的盖特威克机场(Gatwick Airport)的监控录像显示，她们登上了土耳其航空公司(Turkish Airlines)飞往伊斯坦布尔的航班。伦敦警察厅周二表示，她们已经到达叙利亚。
In December, another classmate from the girls’ school, Bethnal Green Academy in east London, took a Turkish Airlines flight and is thought to be in Syria. Police officers at the time questioned the three teenagers over their classmate’s disappearance, a Metropolitan Police officer said.
这些女孩就读于伦敦东部的贝斯纳尔格林中学(Bethnal Green Academy)，去年12月，她们的一名同学曾乘坐土耳其航空公司的航班，据信这名同学目前人在叙利亚。伦敦警察厅的一名警官表示，警官当时曾就该同学失踪的事情询问过这三名女孩。
Like them, “Aqsa was very intelligent, very liked, very bubbly, kind, caring,” said Mr. Anwar, the lawyer. But the Islamic State has turned Ms. Mahmood into “a poster girl in Britain for recruitment,” he said, “and she herself is a high-value recruit.”
律师安瓦尔表示，与她们一样，“阿克萨非常聪明、讨人喜欢、活泼、友善、体贴。”但伊斯兰国将马哈茂德变成了“其英国招募活动的海报女郎，”他说，“她自身就是一个价值很高的新成员。”
The precise role Ms. Mahmood might have played in the flight of the three London teenagers is unclear, since Ms. Begum, not Ms. Mahmood, had initiated their exchange on Twitter. Their conversation quickly moved to an encrypted social media channel, which is standard practice among would-be jihadists seeking practical information on how to reach Syria.
马哈茂德在三名伦敦青少年失踪事件中所扮演的角色尚不明确，因为在Twittter上发起交流的是贝居姆，而不是马哈茂德。她们迅速转移到一个加密的社交媒体频道进行交谈，想要成为圣战分子的人在寻找有关如何抵达叙利亚的实用信息时都会这么做。
There are about 100 British women among the 550 Western women who are thought to have joined Islamist groups in Syria and Iraq, according to the Soufan Group, a security consultancy based in New York. Female recruits are generally younger than their male counterparts, said Ross Frenett of the Institute for Strategic Dialogue, a London research organization that studies extremism.
据称现在有550名西方女性加入了叙利亚和伊拉克的伊斯兰派组织，据总部设在纽约的安全咨询公司苏凡集团(Soufan Group)透露，其中有大约100名英国女性。战略对话研究所(Institute for Strategic Dialogue)的罗斯·弗勒内特(Ross Frenett)表示，女性成员通常比男性成员年轻。这家位于伦敦的研究机构主要研究极端主义。
As the radicals see it, “a 15-year-old makes a good wife,” he said. “A 14-year-old male is less useful as a combatant.”
在激进分子看来，“15岁的女孩会成为一个好妻子，”他说。“14岁的男孩作为作战人员则用处不大。”
Women who join the Islamic State try to entice other women to marry militants and help them build a new, retrograde Islamic society. Ms. Mahmood had emerged as one of the most vocal supporters of the Islamic State and one of its most established online recruiters, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadists’ online activity.
加入伊斯兰国的女性试图怂恿其他女性嫁给武装分子，帮助他们建设一个新的、回归从前的伊斯兰社会。据关注圣战分子网络活动的赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)透露，马哈茂德是发声最为频繁的伊斯兰国支持者之一，也是该组织最为重要的网络招募人员之一。
She has tried to incite terrorist attacks on Western countries through her Tumblr blog and multiple Twitter accounts, calling on British Muslims to follow the example of “brothers from Woolwich, Texas and Boston.” But she also occasionally alludes to boredom doing housewifely duties.
她曾试图通过博客网站Tumblr和多个Twitter账号煽动发起针对西方国家的恐怖袭击，号召英国穆斯林效仿“来自伍尔维奇、德克萨斯及波士顿的兄弟们”。但她也偶尔暗示，自己对做家庭主妇感到无聊。