The ancient manuscript — written on sheep or goat skin — sat for nearly a century at a university library, with scholars unaware of its significance.
写在绵羊皮或山羊皮上的古代手稿在一所大学的博物馆里保存了将近一个世纪，学者们完全不知它的重要性。
That is, until Alba Fedeli, a researcher at the University of Birmingham studying for her doctorate became captivated by its calligraphy, and noticed that two of its pages appeared misbound alongside pages of a similar Quranic manuscript from a later date.
直到在伯明翰大学攻读博士学位的研究员阿尔芭·费代利(Alba Fedeli)被它的字体深深吸引。她注意到有两页手稿似乎错误地和与之类似的更晚期的《古兰经》手稿装订在了一起。
The scripts did not match. Prodded by her observations, the university sent the pages out for radiocarbon testing.
这两页手稿的笔迹和其他的不一致。她的发现促使伯明翰大学将这些手稿页拿到专业机构做了放射性碳检测。
On Wednesday, researchers at the University of Birmingham revealed the startling finding that the fragments appear to be part of what could be the world’s oldest copy of the Quran, and researchers say it may have been transcribed by a contemporary of the Prophet Muhammad.
本周三，伯明翰大学的研究人员披露了一项惊人的发现——这些残页可能是世界上最古老的《古兰经》副本的一部分。研究人员表示，它可能是由与知穆罕默德同一时代的人所抄录。
“We were bowled over, startled indeed,” said David Thomas, a professor of Christianity and Islam at the University of Birmingham, after he and other researchers learned recently of the manuscript’s provenance.
“我们大吃一惊，真的很让人震惊，”伯明翰大学基督教和伊斯兰教教授大卫·托马斯(David Thomas)说道，他不久前和其他研究人员得知了这份手稿的出处。
The ancient pieces of manuscript, estimated to be at least 1,370 years old, offered a moment of unity — and insight — for the world’s 1.6 billion Muslims. Professor Thomas said it also provided tantalizing clues to help settle a scholarly dispute about whether the holy text was actually written down at the time of the prophet, or compiled years later after being passed down by word of mouth. The discovery also offered a joyful moment for a faith that has struggled with internal divisions and external pressures.
这些古老的手稿残页估计至少有1370年的历史，它为世界上的16亿穆斯林带来了团结的时刻，也带来新的洞察。托马斯教授表示，它也提供了一些诱人的线索，可以帮助解决一项学术争端，即《古兰经》到底是在先知在世时写下，还是经后世口口相传之后编撰而成。这一发现也为这一受困于内部分裂和外部压力的宗教信仰带来了片刻欢愉。
Muslims believe Muhammad received the revelations that form the Quran, the scripture of Islam, between 610 and 632, the year of his death. Professor Thomas said tests by the Oxford Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit indicated with a probability of more than 94 percent that the parchment dated from 568 to 645.
穆斯林相信，先知穆罕默德在公元610年到632年间获得了启示，这些启示形成了伊斯兰教圣典《古兰经》。632年是穆罕默德去世的时间。托马斯教授表示，由牛津反射性碳加速器部门(Oxford Radiocarbon Accelerator Unit)所做的检测表明，这份羊皮纸手稿有大于94%的可能，出现于公元568到645年之间。
During the time of Muhammad, the divine message was not compiled into the book form in which it appears today, Professor Thomas said. Rather, the words believed to be from God as told to Muhammad were preserved in the “memories of men” and recited. Parts of it were written on parchment, stone, palm leaves and the shoulder blades of camels, he said.
托马斯教授表示，穆罕默德在世期间所获得的神圣启示没有被编纂成书，尽管现在它是以书的形式呈现。更确切地说，人们所相信的由上帝传达给穆罕默德的信息最初是保存在“人们的记忆中”，被口头吟诵。其中有些部分被刻在了羊皮纸、石头、棕榈叶，以及骆驼的肩胛骨上，他说道。
Tom Holland, the author of “In the Shadow of the Sword,” which charts the origins of Islam, said the discovery in Birmingham bolstered scholarly conclusions that the Quran attained something close to its final form during Muhammad’s lifetime. He said the fragments did not resolve the controversial questions of where, why and how the manuscript was compiled, or how its various suras, or chapters, came to be combined in a single volume.
描述伊斯兰教起源的著作《剑影之下》(In the Shadow of the Sword)的作者汤姆·霍兰(Tom Holland)表示，伯明翰大学这一发现为以下学术结论提供了证据：《古兰经》在穆罕默德在世时已经具备了与它的最终形式非常接近的形态。他表示，手稿残页所不能解决的争议问题包括，这份手稿是在哪里以及为什么被编撰成册，或者说，它的各种章节如何被合成一个卷本。
Consisting of two parchment leaves, the manuscript in Birmingham contains parts of what are now Chapters 18 to 20. For years, the manuscript had been mistakenly bound with leaves of a similar Quran manuscript.
伯明翰大学这份由两页羊皮纸组成的手稿包含了现代《古兰经》第18到20章的内容。多年来，这份手稿一直被错误地装订在一份与之类似的《古兰经》手稿里。
Saud al-Sarhan, the director of research at the King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, said he doubted that the manuscript found in Birmingham was as old as the researchers claimed, noting that its Arabic script included dots and separated chapters — features that were introduced later. He also said that dating the skin on which the text was written did not prove when it was written. Manuscript skins were sometimes washed clean and reused later, he said.
沙特·阿尔－萨尔汗(Saud al-Sarhan)是位于沙特阿拉首都伯利雅得的费萨尔国王研究和伊斯兰学中心(King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies)的研究主管，他怀疑这份发现于伯明翰大学的手稿是否真的像那些研究人员声称的那么古老，他注意到手稿上的阿拉伯文字中有句点和分列的章节，这些文本特征是在后期才被引入。他还表示，确定了纸张的年代，并不能证明上面的文本也是在同一时期撰写。他表示，手稿纸有时会被洗净，之后会再次利用。
Professor Thomas said the text of the two folio pages studied by Ms. Fedeli, who received her doctorate this month, corresponded closely to the text of the modern Quran. But he cautioned that the manuscript was only a small portion of the Quran and therefore did not offer conclusive proof.
托马斯教授表示，已于本月获得博士学位的费代利所研究的这两页抄本，内容与现代《古兰经》大致接近。但他提醒，这份抄本只是《古兰经》的一小部分，所以不能提供任何决定性证据。
Omid Safi, the director of the Duke Islamic Studies Center and the author of “Memories of Muhammad: Why the Prophet Matters,” said that the discovery of the manuscript provided “further evidence for the position of the classical Islamic tradition that the Quran as it exists today is a seventh-century document.”
杜克伊斯兰研究中心 (Duke Islamic Studies Center )主任、《穆罕默德的记忆：为什么先知对我们很重要》(Memories of Muhammad: Why the Prophet Matters)一书的作者奥米德·萨菲(Omid Safi)表示，书稿的发现“为确立经典伊斯兰传统的地位提供了进一步的证据，即我们今天所看到的《古兰经》是来自七世纪的一份文件。”
The manuscript is in Hijazi script, an early form of written Arabic, and researchers said the fragments could be among the earliest textual evidence of the holy book known to survive.
这份抄本是用赫加齐文字(Hijazi script)写成，这是书面阿拉伯语的一种早期形式。研究人员表示，这些抄本残页可能是我们所知的留存下来的《古兰经》最早的文本证据之一。
A manuscript from the University of Tübingen Library in Germany was found last year and sourced to the seventh century, 20 to 40 years after the death of the prophet. Fragments from Tübingen were radiocarbon-tested by a lab in Zurich and determined with 95 percent certainty to have originated from 649 to 675, making the Birmingham text a few years older.
德国蒂宾根大学(University of Tübingen)图书馆去年发现了一份手稿，其历史可以追溯到七世纪，出现于先知去世之后的20到40年间。位于苏黎世的一个实验室为该抄本做了放射性碳检测，确定它有95％的可能性出现于649到675年间，比伯明翰发现的抄本诞生的时间要晚一些。
Radiocarbon dating measures levels of a heavier form of carbon as it appeared in the atmosphere over time and becomes part of plants and, later, the animals that eat them. In this case, the Oxford laboratory measured the age of the goat or sheep whose skin was turned into parchment.
放射性碳年代测定法是通过测量物体中一种份量更重的碳原子的含量来确定它产生的年代，这种碳原子经过一段时间就在空气中出现，成为植物的一部分，之后出现在食用了那些植物的动物体内。牛津实验室在对伯明翰的抄本进行检测时，就是测量了用以制作抄本的羊皮的年代。
Jeff Speakman, director of the Center for Applied Isotope Studies at the University of Georgia who was not involved with the research, said the dates and accuracy sounded reasonable. “Oxford is one of the premier radiocarbon laboratories in the world,” he said.
乔治亚大学(University of Georgia)同位素应用研究中心(Center for Applied Isotope Studies)的主任杰夫·斯皮克曼(Jeff Speakman)没有参与这项研究，他认为伯明翰抄本的日期和测定的精确度应该没什么问题。“牛津是世界上最重要的放射性碳实验室之一，”他说。
Professor Thomas said the manuscript found in Birmingham would be put on public display.
托马斯教授表示，伯明翰发现的这份抄本将会进行公开展览。
The fragments were part of a collection of more than 3,000 documents from the Middle East amassed in the 1920s by Alphonse Mingana, a theologian and historian who was born in what is now Iraq. His document-gathering expeditions to the Middle East were funded by Edward Cadbury, a member of the famous chocolate-making family.
这些残页是来自中东的一批藏品的一部分，该藏品总共包含3000多份文件，是神学家、历史学家阿方斯·明加纳(Alphonse Mingana)收集于1920年代，他出生的地方相当于现在的伊拉克。明加纳前往中东进行的文件收集之旅是由爱德华·卡德伯里(Edward Cadbury)赞助，后者是知名巧克力制作家族的成员之一。
In Birmingham, which has a large Muslim population, the discovery of the ancient manuscript was greeted with joy.
伯明翰有大量穆斯林聚居，对于这份古老抄本的发现，当地人表现出极大的喜悦。