THE decision of British voters in Thursday’s referendum to leave the European Union will have vast consequences for Britain, for Europe and for the world. For a day, the British people were the government, and by 52 percent to 48 percent, they took the decision to go.
英国选民在周四的公投中做出的退出欧盟的决定，将对英国、对欧洲、对全世界产生巨大的影响。这一天，英国民众成了政府，他们以52%支持、48%反对的结果决定退出欧盟。
I was a British prime minister who believed completely that Britain’s future lay in Europe. I was the prime minister responsible for legislating substantial self-rule in Scotland so that it would remain part of the United Kingdom. I negotiated the Good Friday Agreement so that Northern Ireland could be at peace within Britain. Because the result of the referendum has put so much of this at risk, Friday became a day of great personal, as well as political, sadness.
担任英国首相时，我深信英国的未来在于欧洲。我推动通过立法，赋予苏格兰大量自治权，以便让其留在联合王国内。我促成了《耶稣受难日协议》(Good Friday Agreement)，使北爱尔兰能够安心留在英国。公投的结果可能将这许多的努力毁于一旦，因此，周五成了悲哀的一天，不仅在政治上，也是对我个人而言。
The immediate impact of the Brexit vote is economic. The fallout has been as swift as it was predictable. At one point on Friday, the pound hit a 30-year low against the dollar, and a leading British stock index had dropped more than 8 percent. The nation’s credit rating is under threat.
英国退出欧盟投票的直接影响体现在经济上。像预料中的那样，这一点迅速显现。周五，英镑兑美元的汇率一度跌至30年来的最低点，一个重要英国股指下跌逾8%。英国的信用评级也面临威胁。
The lasting effect, however, may be political, and with global implications. If the economic shocks continue, then the British experiment will serve as a warning. But if they abate, then populist movements in other countries will gain momentum.
然而，持久的影响可能体现在政治上，并且是波及全球的。如果经济冲击继续，那么英国的试验将具有警示意义。但如果冲击减弱，那么其他国家的民粹主义运动的势头将有所上升。
How did this happen? The right in British politics found an issue that’s causing palpitations in the body politic the world over: immigration. Part of the Conservative Party, allied with the far-right U.K. Independence Party, took this issue and focused its campaign to leave Europe on it. This strategy could not have succeeded, though, without finding common cause with a significant segment of Labour voters.
这一切是怎么发生的？英国政界的右翼发现了一个令全世界人民心悸的问题：移民。部分保守党(Conservative Party)，连同极右翼的英国独立党(U.K. Independence Party)，抓住了这个问题，把它作为脱离欧洲运动的核心。但这项战略本不会成功，因为工党(Labour)的大批选民并不认同。
These Labour supporters did not get a clear message from their own party, whose leader, Jeremy Corbyn, was lukewarm about remaining in the union. They were drawn by the Leavers’ promise that Brexit would bring an end to the country’s perceived immigration problems. And, worried about their flatlining incomes and cuts in public spending, these Labour voters saw this vote as an opportunity to register an anti-government protest.
这些工党的支持者未从自己的政党那里得到明确的讯息。工党领袖杰里米·科尔宾(Jeremy Corbyn)对留在欧盟不热心。他们被退出派的承诺，即英国退出欧盟会结束英国所谓的移民问题所吸引。同时，因为对收入越来越少以及支出削减的担心，这些工党选民认为这场投票是一个提出反政府抗议的机会。
The strains within Britain that led to this referendum result are universal, at least in the West. Insurgent movements of left and right, posing as standard-bearers of a popular revolt against the political establishment, can spread and grow at scale and speed. Today’s polarized and fragmented news coverage only encourages such insurgencies — an effect magnified many times by the social media revolution.
造成这种公投结果的英国国内压力具有普遍性，至少在西方世界是这样的。左翼和右翼冒充一场反政治权威集团的民众起义的领袖，它们的运动可以成规模、高速度地扩散和增长。如今两极化、片面化的新闻报道，只会鼓励这种反叛。社交媒体革命则将这种效果放大了许多倍。
It was already clear before the Brexit vote that modern populist movements could take control of political parties. What wasn’t clear was whether they could take over a country like Britain. Now we know they can.
在英国退出欧盟投票之前，现代民粹主义运动可能会掌控政党这一点就已经很清楚了。当时不清楚的是，它们是否能控制像英国这样的国家。现在我们知道了，它们可以。
Those in the political center were demonized as out-of-touch elites, as though the people leading the insurgency were ordinary folks — which, in the case of the Brexit campaign, is a laughable proposition. The campaign made the word “expert” virtually a term of abuse, and when experts warned of the economic harm that would follow Brexit, they were castigated as “scaremongers.” Immigrants were described as a bunch of scroungers coming to grab Britons’ jobs and benefits when, in reality, the recent migrants from Eastern Europe contribute far more in taxes than they take in welfare payments. And besides, immigration to Britain from outside the European Union will not be affected by the referendum decision.
政治中派被妖魔化成了脱离民众的精英，好像领导这场反叛的人是普通百姓似的。在脱欧阵营里，这是一件可笑的事情。该阵营让“专家”几乎成了一个侮辱人的词，而当专家警告英国脱离欧盟会损害经济时，他们会被指是在“危言耸听”。移民被说成是一群寄生虫，会来抢英国人的工作机会和福利，但现实是，最近来自东欧的移民交的税，远远超过了他们领取的福利金。此外，来自非欧盟国家的移民将不受公投结果的影响。
The political center has lost its power to persuade and its essential means of connection to the people it seeks to represent. Instead, we are seeing a convergence of the far left and far right. The right attacks immigrants while the left rails at bankers, but the spirit of insurgency, the venting of anger at those in power and the addiction to simple, demagogic answers to complex problems are the same for both extremes. Underlying it all is a shared hostility to globalization.
政治中派已经失去了说服它试图代表的民众的能力，失去了联系他们的基本手段。相反，我们正看到极左翼和极右翼的融合。右翼攻击移民，左翼则怒斥银行家，但对这两个极端阵营来说，叛乱的精神、向当权者发泄愤怒、执迷于用具有煽动性的简单方式解决复杂问题，都是一样的。在这一切表象下，是两者对全球化共同怀有的敌意。
Britain and Europe now face a protracted period of economic and political uncertainty, as the British government tries to negotiate a future outside the single market where half of Britain’s goods and services are traded. These new arrangements — to be clear about the scale of the challenge — must be negotiated with all the other 27 countries, their individual parliaments and the European Parliament. Some governments may be cooperative; others won’t want to make leaving easy for Britain, in order to discourage similar movements.
英国一半商品和服务的交易是在欧盟这个市场中完成的。现在，该国政府试图就自己在这个单一市场之外的未来展开谈判。与此同时，英国和欧洲都面临一个漫长的经济与政治不确定期。这项挑战的规模相当清楚，英国必须就这些新安排同其他27个国家、它们各自的议会和欧洲议会(European Parliament)进行协商。一些政府可能愿意合作，但为了阻止类似的运动，其他国家不会让英国轻松退出。
Britain is a strong country, with a resilient people and energy and creativity in abundance. I don’t doubt Britons’ capacity to come through, whatever the cost. But the stress on the United Kingdom is already apparent.
英国是一个强大的国家，民众适应能力强，精力充沛，创意丰富。我不怀疑英国度过难关的能力，无论付出什么代价。但联合王国面临的压力已经显现出来了。
Voters in Scotland chose by a large margin to remain in Europe, with the result that there are renewed calls for another referendum on Scottish independence. Northern Ireland has benefited from virtually open borders with the Republic of Ireland. That freedom is at risk because the North’s border with the South now becomes the European Union’s border, a potential threat to the Northern Ireland peace process.
苏格兰绝大部分选民选择留在欧盟。公投结果出来后，再次出现了就苏格兰的独立举行公投的呼声。与爱尔兰之间几乎开放的边境让北爱尔兰受益良多。但这种自由面临危险，因为现在北爱尔兰与爱尔兰之间的边境，成了欧盟的边境。这是对北爱和平进程的一个潜在威胁。
If the people — usually a repository of common sense and practicality — do something that appears neither sensible nor practical, then it forces a period of long and hard reflection. My own politics is waking to this new political landscape. The same dangerous impulses are visible, too, in American politics, but the challenges of globalization cannot be met by isolationism or shutting borders.
如果通常富有常识和实用主义态度的英国民众做了一件看上去既不明智也不现实的事情，那么这件事会强制带来一段漫长而艰苦的反省期。我自己的政治观点正在受到这种新的政治局势的影响。在美国政治中，也能看到同样危险的冲动情感，但我们不能用孤立主义或关闭边境来应对全球化的挑战。
The center must regain its political traction, rediscover its capacity to analyze the problems we all face and find solutions that rise above the populist anger. If we do not succeed in beating back the far left and far right before they take the nations of Europe on this reckless experiment, it will end the way such rash action always does in history: at best, in disillusion; at worst, in rancorous division. The center must hold.
中间派必须重获政治支持，重新发掘分析我们所有人面临的那些问题的能力，并找到超越民粹主义愤怒的解决方案。如果我们不能在极左翼和极右翼让其他欧洲国家进行这种不计后果的试验之前成功地击退它们，结果便是：最好的情况是幻想破灭，最坏的情况是充满敌意的分裂。历史上这类鲁莽行为的结局一向如此。中间派必须坚持住。