Viewers of “Downton Abbey” spotted the family-destroying potential of primogeniture in the first episode, when the Titanic sank and Lord Grantham, father of three daughters, was left with no obvious heir.
电视连续剧《唐顿庄园》(Downton Abbey)的观众们在第一集就看到了长子继承制可能给家庭带来的破坏：泰坦尼克号(Titanic)沉没后，只有三个女儿的格兰瑟姆勋爵(Lord Grantham)失去了明显的继承人。
Luckily, the distant cousin who emerged as the next in line proved willing to ditch his dreary day job, marry one of the daughters and cleverly produce a son before his own abrupt demise last season.
幸运的是，他的远房侄子作为家族中的顺位继承人出现，而且愿意摒弃自己枯燥的日常工作，和勋爵的一位女儿结婚，并在上一季猝然离世之前聪明地生了一个儿子。
But what of those poor, no-prospects daughters, forced to look alluring and wait around for suitable husbands?
可是，那些可怜的、没有未来的女儿们该怎么办呢？她们被迫摆出诱人的仪态，等着合适的丈夫出现。
The practice of primogeniture — in which titles and estates pass only to male heirs, even negligibly related ones excavated from other continents — may seem as outrageous and antediluvian as denying women the vote, but it is still the law of the land for the aristocracy in Britain.
长子继承制——爵位和遗产只能传承给男性继承人，甚至是那些从其他大陆挖来的远房亲戚——也许看上去就像拒绝给女性投票权那样既离谱又不合时宜，可它依然是管辖英国贵族制度的现行法律。
“My father always said, ‘Remember to wear a safety belt, because your face is your fortune,’ ” said Liza Campbell, a daughter of the 25th Thane of Cawdor (yes, there is one in real life, not just in “Macbeth”), and now, after her father’s death, sister of the 26th.
第25代考德领主(Thane of Cawdor)的女儿莉莎·坎贝尔(Liza Campbell)说，“我的父亲总是说‘记得系安全带，因为你的脸就是你的财富’。”（是的，不只是在《麦克白》[Macbeth]中，现实生活中真有一位考德领主。）父亲去世后，她成了第26代领主的姐姐。
Also known as the Earl of Cawdor, the current thane, Colin, is the middle child among five children. But he is the oldest boy, and was always considered the most important, for title-continuity purposes. “I love my brother, but it’s a peculiar situation,” said Ms. Campbell, 53, an artist and writer who grew up on the family’s Scottish estate — 50,000 acres, plus castle — but now lives in London. “There’s one chosen one in the family, and everyone else is superfluous to requirements.”
考德领主也被称为考德伯爵，现任领主科林(Colin)在五个孩子中排行老三。不过，他是最年长的儿子，出于爵位继承原因，他一向被认为是最重要的孩子。53岁的坎贝尔说，“我爱我的弟弟，不过这是一种怪异的局面。”她是一位艺术家和作家，在苏格兰的家族庄园中长大，这片庄园占地5万英亩（约合20234公顷），还有城堡，但现在居住在伦敦。“家族内部只有一位被选中的继承人，就继承要求而言，其他人都是多余的。”
Until recently there has been little appetite to change the law, a reflection in part of Britain’s inability to decide, finally, whether its aristocracy is an essential part of its identity, a quaint vestige of the past or a bit of both.
直到不久以前，各方一直无意改变这项法律，在某种程度上反映出英国无法拿定主意：贵族制度是其国家特色不可或缺的组成部分，还是中古时代的遗风（或者二者皆有）。
“The posh aspect of it blinds people to what is essentially sexism in a privileged minority, where girls are born less than boys,” Ms. Campbell said.
坎贝尔表示，“贵族制度亮丽的一面蒙蔽了人们，使他们看不到享有特权的少数群体内部本质上的性别歧视，女孩生下来地位就不如男孩。”
But the issue has been percolating through Parliament since the recent passage of a law allowing the monarchy to be passed on to the monarch’s firstborn child, regardless of sex (this means that William and Kate’s impending baby will become the third in line to the throne, whether it is a boy or a girl). New legislative proposals would allow peerages — basically, inherited titles and the estates that can come with them — to be passed on this way, too, to the oldest child rather than the oldest son.
但这个问题正在英国议会引发讨论，因为最近通过的法律允许将君主头衔传给君主的第一个孩子，而不分性别（这意味着威廉[William]和凯特[Kate]即将出生的孩子将成为王位的第三继承人，无论孩子是男孩还是女孩）。新的立法提案允许将贵族头衔——主要是继承的头衔及随之而来的财产——也这样传承，即传给年龄最大的孩子，而不是长子。
“We seem to have not got rid of titles, but I think since we have them, I would like to see them gender-blind,” said the bill’s sponsor in the House of Lords, Lord Lucas of Crudwell and Dingwall, who because of a historical quirk is one of the few hereditary peers whose titles can pass to girls as well as boys.
上议院(House of Lords)的法案发起人——克拉德韦尔和丁沃尔的卢卡斯勋爵(Lord Lucas of Crudwell and Dingwall)表示，“我们看起来无意废除头衔制度，但我认为，既然我们有这些头衔，我希望看到它们没有性别上的差异。”由于历史的偶然性，他是为数不多的能够将爵位传给男孩和女孩的世袭贵族。
The House of Commons sponsor, Mary Macleod, a Conservative, pointed out that of 92 hereditary peers in the House of Lords, just two are women. “It only affects a few people, but it’s symbolic,” she said of the proposal. “It’s saying that right now, do we think that men and women are equal?”
下议院(House of Commons)的法案发起人、保守党议员玛丽·麦克劳德(Mary Macleod)指出，在上议院92名世袭贵族中，只有两名女性。“它只会影响少数人，但它具有象征意义，”她提到该立法提案时说，“它在说，现在我们认为男性和女性是平等的吗？
The current rules have created all manner of family trouble.
现行规定带来了各种家族问题。
“When we were growing up, it was always, ‘When your brother lives here. ...’ ” said an aristocratic woman who grew up on a grand estate she loved, only to have her younger brother inherit it when their father died. The woman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she did not want to stir up family grievances, said that no one ever questioned the system.
一名贵族女性在一座她所钟爱的豪华庄园里长大，但父亲去世后，她的弟弟继承了这个庄园。她说，“我们小时候，父母老是说‘当你的弟弟住在这里时......’。”由于不想引发家族恩怨，这名女性要求匿名。她表示，没人质疑过这种制度。
“Even though my father had witnessed his mother’s near-collapse at not inheriting the house she grew up in, he did not adjust his own behavior towards his daughter,” said the woman, now in her late 50s. “Though I loved him and he loved me, the rule of inheritance was as strong for him as the rule that you do not have children out of wedlock.”
“虽然我父亲目睹了他母亲因为无法继承她从小居住的房子而接近崩溃，但这没有改变他对女儿的态度，”这位接近60岁的女性说。“虽然我爱他，他也爱我，但对于他来说，继承规定就像不能非婚生子的规定一样有力。”
She is lucky: her brother lets her and her children visit the house whenever they want. Some sisters are not so fortunate. The children of the late Lord Lambton, for instance, have been locked in a nasty dispute over his multimillion-pound estate, which when he died in 2006 passed down entirely to his youngest child and only son, Ned.
她是幸运的：她的弟弟让她和她的孩子随时来做客。有些姐姐可没这么幸运。例如，已故的兰布顿勋爵(Lord Lambton)的子女就围绕价值几百万英镑的庄园，陷入了一场令人不快的纠纷。2006年兰布顿公爵去世时，这座庄园完全由他的幼子，也是唯一的儿子——内德(Ned)继承。
Citing the legal battles, the sisters did not want to comment. But Peregrine Worsthorne, a prominent writer and political commentator who is married to Lucinda Lambton, one of the daughters, said that the system had wreaked havoc on the family.
兰布顿的几个女儿以官司仍在进行为由，不愿置评。著名作家、政治评论家佩里格林·沃索恩(Peregrine Worsthorne)是其中一个女儿、露辛达·兰布顿(Lucinda Lambton)的丈夫。他说，这一体制给兰布顿一家造成了巨大破坏。
The situation is distressing in a different way for the Earl and Countess of Clancarty, who have an 8-year-old daughter but no one to take over the family title, hundreds of years old.
克兰卡蒂伯爵和伯爵夫人(Earl and Countess of Clancarty)面临着不同的困境。这对夫妇有一个8岁的女儿，但他们没有后人来继承有数百年历史的家族头衔。
“There’s a feeling of the line stopping with you after all these centuries,” the countess said. “The title and any family memorabilia would go to someone we don’t even know. If they even exist, they would probably be in Australia.”
“感觉就是几百年的香火就要在我这儿断掉了，”伯爵夫人说。“家族头衔和家族的任何纪念物都将归属一个我们现在还不认识的人。就算这样的人真的存在，也很可能远在澳大利亚。”
Interestingly, no one is campaigning to take the matter even further by, say, requiring that estates be divided among all the children and not left to just one. The system here has kept intact for centuries many of Britain’s grandest estates, including Blenheim Palace, home of the Duke of Marlborough; Chatsworth, home of the Duke of Devonshire; and Highclere Castle, home to the Earl of Carnarvon (and to Lord Grantham, in TV world).
有趣的是，没有人在推动进一步改变现有体制，如要求把遗产分给所有子女，而非仅留给一人。几百年来，这一体制帮助保持了英国很多宏伟庄园的原貌，包括马尔伯勒公爵(Duke of Marlborough)的庄园布莱尼姆宫(Blenheim Palace)；德文希尔公爵(Duke of Devonshire)的庄园查兹沃斯(Chatsworth)；以及卡那封伯爵(Earl of Carnarvon)的庄园海克利尔城堡(Highclere Castle)——在电视剧《唐顿庄园》里，这座庄园属于格兰瑟姆伯爵。
In Europe, though, the opposite has happened: Estates have been broken up and fortunes diluted because of laws meant to make it impossible to disinherit even unsatisfactory children. 
但欧洲的情形和英国正好相反：遗产被分割，财富被稀释，因为法律的意图就是使继承权不可能被剥夺，即便是让父母失望的子女也不例外。
In Britain, Lady Clancarty and others have started an online petition urging Parliament to enact the proposals and end sex discrimination among hereditary peers. Recently, dozens of people, including peers and wives and daughters of peers, signed a supportive letter in The Telegraph. But many others refused.
在英国，克兰卡蒂伯爵夫人和其他人发起了网上请愿，敦促议会通过提案，终止世袭贵族这一群体中的性别歧视。《每日电讯报》(The Telegraph)最近刊登了有几十人（包括贵族及其妻女）签署的一封支持信。但还有很多人拒绝签名。
“Plenty of people are really worried,” Lady Clancarty said. “They don’t want to sign because they are so frightened of hurting their families. No one wants to fall out with a brother or upset a father or mother. There’s a code of omertà. We’re saying it’s O.K. to speak up.”
“很多人真的很担心，”克兰卡蒂伯爵夫人说。“他们不愿签名，因为他们担心这样做会伤害家人感情。没人愿意和兄弟产生纠纷或让父母感到不悦。大家遵守着沉默的潜规则。而我们在说的是，说出来没问题。”