MANCHESTER, England — Britain’s prime minister put the nation on its highest level of alert on Tuesday and deployed the military to work with the police over fears that another terrorist attack was imminent.
周二，出于对很快会再次发生恐怖袭击事件的担忧，英国首相将该国恐怖袭击威胁调至最高预警级别，并且部署军队与警方协同合作。
The announcement came as the police continued to investigate whether the Monday night bombing at a pop music concert in Manchester that killed 22 people, including children, was part of a broader conspiracy.
通告发布之际，警方正在继续调查发生在周一晚间的爆炸事件是否属于一场更大的阴谋。爆炸发生于曼彻斯特一场流行音乐演唱会上，造成包括儿童在内的22人死亡。
“It is a possibility we cannot ignore that there is a wider group of individuals linked to this attack,” Prime Minister Theresa May said in Manchester after a meeting of her top security officials.
“我们不能忽略的一种可能性是，有一个更大的团伙和这次袭击有干系。”特丽莎‧梅在同最高安全官员召开会议后称。
Earlier in the day, the police raided the home of Salman Abedi, the man they identified as the bomber; he died in the blast. Chief Constable Ian Hopkins of the Greater Manchester Police said that the investigation was focusing on determining “whether Mr. Abedi was acting alone or as part of a network.”
当天早些时候，警方突击搜查了被认定为袭击者的萨勒曼·阿贝迪(Salman Abedi)的家，阿贝迪在袭击中身亡。大曼彻斯特地区警察局局长伊恩·霍普金斯(Ian Hopkins)称，调查的重点在于确定“他是单独行动，还是属于一个团伙”。
A senior United States official said on Tuesday night that Mr. Abedi had traveled multiple times to Libya, where his parents immigrated from, but did not know the timing of his last trip. The official was not authorized to discuss the information publicly and spoke on the condition of anonymity.
周二晚间，一名美国高级官员称阿贝迪曾多次前往利比亚，但不清楚他最后一次前往该地的时间，阿贝迪的父母是利比亚移民。该官员未获得公开讨论这一信息的授权，他要求匿名。
By raising the national threat level from severe to critical, Ms. May suggested “not only that an attack remains highly likely, but that a further attack may be imminent.”
It was only the third time that Britain had raised the threat level to critical.
这是英国第三次把恐怖主义威胁上调到危急级别。
“This morning, I said that the Joint Terrorism Analysis Center – the independent organization responsible for setting the threat level on the basis of the intelligence available – was keeping the threat level under constant review,” Ms. May said in a statement.
It has now concluded, on the basis of today’s investigations, that the threat level should be increased, for the time being, from SEVERE to CRITICAL. This means that their assessment is not only that an attack remains highly likely, but that a further attack may be imminent,” the statement said.
The first time that the terror level was raised to critical occurred on Aug. 10, 2006, after the government foiled a plot to blow up transatlantic airliners with liquid bombs.
2006年8月10日，在挫败了一个用液体炸弹炸毁飞越大西洋的大型客机的阴谋后，英国政府第一次把恐怖主义警报级别上调到“危急”。
The second time was on June 30, 2007, after two men slammed an S.U.V. into entrance doors at Glasgow Airport and turned the vehicle into a potentially lethal fireball.
第二次是在2007年6月30日。当时，两名男子开着一辆SUV撞向格拉斯哥机场(Glasgow Airport)的入口，把车变成了一个可能会造成人员伤亡的火球。
The government’s actions on Tuesday night came hours after Mr. Abedi was identified by the police as the bomber who carried out Monday night’s assault, Britain’s deadliest terrorist attack since 2005, an explosion that killed 22 people and injured 59 others at Manchester Arena.
在政府周二晚上采取行动的几个小时前，警方确认是阿贝迪制造了周一晚上的袭击。这次袭击事件是自2005年以来，英国伤亡最惨重的恐怖袭击。
Mr. Abedi, whose parents had emigrated from Libya and who lived in a house just 3.5 miles from the arena, where he detonated a homemade bomb in a public concourse around 10:30 p.m. on Monday. The bomb exploded as a concert by the American pop star Ariana Grande was ending and as crowds of teenagers had begun to leave, many for an adjacent train station.
阿贝迪住的地方距离体育场仅3.5英里（约合5.6公里）。周一晚上10点30分前后，阿贝迪在体育场的一个公共大厅里引爆一枚自制炸弹。炸弹爆炸时，正值美国流行歌手阿丽亚娜·格兰德(Ariana Grande)的演唱会结束，成群结队的年轻人已开始离场，很多人要前往附近的一个火车站。
Mr. Abedi died in the attack.
At a late afternoon news conference, Chief Constable Ian Hopkins of the Greater Manchester Police identified the bomber as Mr. Abedi after several news publications reported his name, but he declined to provide any further details, noting that a coroner had not yet officially identified him.
“The priority remains to establish whether he was acting alone or as part of a network,” Chief Constable Hopkins said.
Mr. Abedi’s ID was found at the scene of the bombing, according to a law enforcement official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was still underway. Mr. Abedi was born in Britain in 1994, the son of immigrants from Libya, the official said.
According to neighbors, Mr. Abedi lived with his family in a house in Elsmore Road, in the Fallowfield district. The police raided the house Tuesday afternoon, after setting off a controlled explosion to gain entry.
据邻居称，阿贝迪和家人住在法洛菲尔德区埃尔斯莫尔路的一处房子里。周二下午，警方突击搜查了那里。为了进到屋内，警方先引爆了一场控制爆炸。
A neighbor, Lina Ahmed, said she knew little about the family. “They didn’t really speak to anyone,” she said. “They were nice people if you walked past.” She said the family occasionally displayed a Libyan flag outside the home.
一个叫莉娜·艾哈迈德(Lina Ahmed)的邻居说自己对阿贝迪家了解甚少。“他们真的不和任何人说话，”她说。“如果路过的话，他们人很好。”她说阿贝迪家偶尔会在房屋外面悬挂利比亚国旗。
Another neighbor, Farzana Kosur, said that the mother, who taught the Quran, had been abroad for around two months.
另一个叫法尔扎纳·科苏尔(Farzana Kosur)的邻居说，阿贝迪教《古兰经》(Quran)的母亲曾出国大约两个月。
Residents were stunned by the police operations. “We’ve been watching this kind of attack happen in Paris,” said a neighbor, Thomas Coull, 17. “We didn’t expect it to happen on our doorstep, literally.”
居民对警方的行动感到震惊。“我们眼看着这种袭击在巴黎发生，”17岁的邻居托马斯·库尔(Thomas Coull)说。“没想到会发生自己家门口，真的就是家门口。”