LONDON — Prime Minister David Cameron and his Conservative Party won a surprisingly solid victory in the British general election on Thursday, with projections and partial results Friday morning showing that the party will at a minimum come close to winning an overall majority in Parliament.
伦敦——英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)和他所在的保守党(Conservative Party)在周四举行的英国大选中，出人意料地赢得了牢固的胜利。预测数据及周五早间尚不完整的选举结果显示，该党获得的席位至少接近于在议会中占据整体多数。
Even if the Conservatives fall short of a majority, Mr. Cameron now appears all but certain to remain prime minister, with the choice of working with at least two smaller parties or trying to run a minority government.
即使保守党无法取得多数席位，现在似乎也相当确定，卡梅伦能够继续担任首相。他可以至少从两个较小的政党中选择联合执政的伙伴，或尝试领导一个少数政府。
The vote was a significant disappointment for the Labour Party and its leader, Ed Miliband, who saw his hopes of ejecting Mr. Cameron from Downing Street dissipate overnight.
投票结果令工党及其领袖埃德·米利班德(Ed Miliband)大失所望。米利班德眼看着自己把卡梅伦赶出唐宁街的希望一夜之间破灭了。
Labour was nearly wiped out in Scotland by the surging Scottish National Party and did poorer than pre-election polls had suggested it would in the rest of Britain.
在苏格兰，工党几乎被苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)杀得片甲不留。在英国其他地区，工党的表现也逊于选举前的民调数据。
“Now the results are still coming in, but this has clearly been a very disappointing and difficult night for the Labour Party,” Mr. Miliband said in a quasi concession after being re-elected to his seat in the House of Commons.
米利班德赢得选举，保住自己的下议院席位之后说，“结果仍在陆续揭晓，但对工党来说这显然是一个非常失望和艰难的夜晚。”这几乎相当于承认了工党的失败。
“We haven’t made the gains that we wanted in England and Wales,” he said, “and in Scotland we have seen a surge of nationalism overwhelm our party.”
“我们在英格兰和威尔士没有取得想要的进展，”他说，“在苏格兰，我们看到高涨的民族主义情绪，击溃了我们的政党。”
The results were also a disaster for Nick Clegg and his centrist Liberal Democrats, who have been the junior partner in coalition with the Conservatives. The results raised questions about whether Mr. Miliband and Mr. Clegg might have to resign as leaders of their parties.
对尼克·克莱格(Nick Clegg)及其领导的中间派政党自由民主党(Liberal Democrats)来说，结果也是灾难性的。在与保守党的执政联盟中，该党一直是一个低级的合作伙伴。选举结果使人们开始追问，米利班德和克莱格是否会辞去各自政党领袖的职务。
“It is now painfully clear that this has been a cruel and punishing night for the Liberal Democrats,” said Mr. Clegg, who served as deputy prime minister and who held his Sheffield Hallam seat with a reduced majority.
“现在很明显，对自民党来说，这是一个残酷并带有惩罚意义的夜晚，令人心痛，”曾担任副首相的克莱格说。他保住了代表谢菲尔德哈勒姆(Sheffield Hallam)的议席，但领先的票数有所下降。
The latest projections by the BBC, based on incomplete results and a national exit poll, put the Conservatives at 329 seats, three more than an absolute majority in the 650-member House of Commons. Should the Conservatives win 329 seats when all the votes are tallied later on Friday, it would be a gain of 22 seats from the last election, in 2010.
BBC根据尚不完整的结果和在全国范围进行的出口民调做出了最新预测，称保守党将获得329个席位，比在下议院占据绝对多数所需的席位数多出了三席。英国议会下议院共有650个席位。周五晚些时候，所有选票都将清点完毕，如果保守党届时真的赢得329个席位，将比该党在2010年的上一次选举中所获的席位多22个。
Speaking in his electoral district after his re-election, Mr. Cameron said it was “clearly a very strong night for the Conservative Party,” though he added that it was too soon to say exactly what sort of result there will be when all the results are declared.
成功连任后，卡梅伦在自己的选区发表了讲话，称这“对保守党来说，显然是一个趋势强劲的夜晚”，不过他接着表示，在全部结果公布之前，断言会有怎样的斩获还为时过早。