As the hunt for the missing Malaysia Airlines jet expanded into the daunting vastness of the Indian Ocean, a satellite communications company confirmed on Friday that it had recorded electronic “keep alive” ping signals from the plane after it disappeared, and said those signals could be analyzed to help estimate its location.
随着搜索失踪的马兰西亚航空公司喷气式飞机的工作扩展到令人生畏的浩瀚印度洋上，一家卫星通信公司周五证实，曾纪录到来自这架飞机的“保活”ping信号，这些信号是飞机失联后收到的，可以通过分析信号来帮助估计飞机的位置。
The information from the company, Inmarsat, could prove to be the first big break in helping narrow the frustrating search for the plane with 239 people aboard that mysteriously disappeared from radar screens a week ago, now hunted by a multinational array of ships and planes that have fanned out for thousands of square miles.
来自Inmarsat公司的这一信息可能会被证明是帮助缩小搜寻范围的首次重大突破，这架载有239人的飞机，在一周前从雷达显示屏上神秘消失，搜寻工作进展一直令人沮丧，现在已有多个国家的船只和飞机在上万平方公里的范围里寻找它。
Inmarsat, a Britain-based satellite communications provider of systems to ships and airplanes, had equipment aboard the Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 jetliner, said David Coiley, the vice president of the company in charge of the aviation business. The equipment automatically communicates with satellites, much as a mobile phone would automatically connect to a network after passing through a mountain tunnel, he said.
Inmarsat公司的总部在英国，是一家船只和飞机卫星通信设备的供应商，公司负责航空业务的副总裁戴维·考伊雷(David Coiley)说，失联的马航波音777喷气式客机上装有该公司的设备。那个设备自动与卫星通信，他说，有点像手机在穿出山洞之后自动联接到服务网络上那样。
“It does allow us to determine where the airplane is relative to the satellite,” he said of the signal, which he likened to the “noises you might hear when you when you put your cellphone next to a radio or a television speaker.” He said: “It does allow us to narrow down the position of the aircraft.”
“这的确能让我们确定出这架飞机相对于卫星的位置，”他提到那种信号时这样说，他把信号比作“手机放在收音机或电视音响设备旁边时，听到的那种噪音”。他说，“这的确能让我们缩小飞机的位置范围。”
Because the pings go over a measurable distance at a specific angle to one of the company’s satellites, the information can be used to help calculate the trajectory and location of an aircraft, he said.
他说，因为这些ping信号经过一个可测定的距离，以特定的角度传到公司的卫星上，这个信息可以用来帮助计算飞机的轨迹和位置。
“Communications systems are part of the mandatory requirement for operating any flight, and we are comfortable that it would have been operating accordingly,” Mr. Coiley said. He said Inmarsat was sharing information with the airline and investigators, but would not comment further on that information.
考伊雷说，“通信系统是操作任何航班的强制性要求之一，对这架飞机上的系统会按要求操作这点，我们有信心。”他说公司正在向马航以及调查人员提供信息，但不愿就这些信息发表更多评论。
The Inmarsat disclosure came amid other signs that the aircraft may have turned sharply west from its intended northward route from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing and traveled far from the initial focus of the search.
Inmarsat公司披露这一消息时，已有其他迹象表明，这架马航班机可能向西急转弯，偏离了其从吉隆坡到北京的原定向北航线，可能飞到了离最初的搜索点相当远的地方。
The jet disappeared from the flight control radar an hour into its nighttime flight, leading the Malaysian government and others during the first 72 hours of the search-and-rescue operation to concentrate ships and aircraft in the Gulf of Thailand and nearby waters to the east of Malaysia.
这架飞机在夜间起飞不到一个小时后，从航空管制雷达上消失，这让马来西亚政府以及其他各方，在搜救工作的最初72小时中，将船只和飞机集中在泰国湾以及马来西亚东部附近的海域。
Increasingly, however, the search has encompassed seas to the west of Peninsular Malaysia, stretching from the Strait of Malacca to the Bay of Bengal, where the United States and India sent military planes and ships. The move came in tandem with an increasing amount of evidence that the aircraft flew for as long as four hours after it disappeared from air traffic control radar after 1 a.m. last Saturday.
但是，搜救工作已逐渐开始把马来西亚半岛以西的海域包括进来，从马六甲海峡延伸到孟加拉湾，美国和印度已经向这些海域派出军用飞机和船只。采取这一行动是因为，越来越多的证据表明，马航班机在上周六凌晨1点多从空中交通管制雷达上消失后，继续飞行了长达4个小时。
Even with the help of the Inmarsat data, the new focus on the open ocean shows illustrates the difficulty for the multinational search force, which now must scan thousands of miles of the world’s third-largest ocean. The initial search area was in the relatively confined and shallow waters of the South China Sea and Gulf of Thailand, which are among the world’s busiest maritime routes. If the plane ended up in the ocean depths, it will be far harder to find and recover. At a news conference, the Malaysian defense minister, Hishammuddin Hussein, who has been the chief public face of his government’s search effort, said that searching seas both to the east and west of his country was a logical next step after days of fruitless searching and false starts. But he also acknowledged that, seven days after it vanished, an aircraft with 239 passengers and crew onboard remains unaccounted for, leaving family members in tormented wait.
即使有Inmarsat数据的帮助，将焦点转移到开阔的海洋本身，显示着多国救援人员所面临的困难，他们现在必须在世界第三大洋的上万平方公里中寻找。最初的搜寻区是在相对封闭、也比较浅的南海和泰国湾，那里有世界上最繁忙的海上交通。如果航班坠入了深海，那将极大地增加寻找和打捞工作的难度。在一次新闻发布会上，马来西亚国防部长希沙姆丁·侯赛因(Hishammuddin Hussein)说，对马来西亚东部和西部海域展开搜寻是一个合乎逻辑的下一步，此前的多天搜索毫无结果，而且几次被不实信息误导。侯赛因是马来西亚政府搜救工作的主要公共面孔，他也承认，飞机失踪已经7天，飞机上的239名乘客和机组人员下落不明，这让家属在痛苦中等待。
“A normal investigation becomes narrower with time, I understand, as new information focuses on the search,” said Mr. Hussein, who is also acting transport minister. “But this is not a normal investigation.”
侯赛因目前也是交通部代理部长，他说，“我知道，常规的调查工作会随着时间的推移而将范围缩小，因为新的信息会让搜索的焦点变得更清楚。但是，这不是一次常规的调查。”
He said the multinational search had expanded on both sides of Malaysia, into the South China Sea, and increasingly into the Indian Ocean. “It is basically because we have not found anything in the areas that we have searched,” he said.
他说，多国搜救工作已经扩展到马来西亚半岛的两侧，也在向南海延伸，并越来越深入到印度洋。他说，“这基本上是因为，我们在已经搜索过的区域中，没有任何收获。”
But aviation experts, news reports and some American officials have also pointed to military radar and signals collected by satellites as furnishing stronger evidence that the Boeing 777 plane turned sharply from its planned course, flew over the Malaysian peninsula and then headed west toward the Andaman Sea and the the Indian Ocean.
但是，航空专家、新闻媒体以及一些美国官员也指出，军用雷达和卫星收集的信息已提供了更越来越强的证据表明，这架波音777飞机突然偏离了计划航线，飞越了马来西亚半岛之后，向西朝着安达曼海以及印度洋方向飞行。
A report from Reuters news agency on Friday said that information culled from military radar records indicated that the plane may have been deliberately flown far off its intended route, from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, and when last recorded was heading toward the Andaman Islands, which belong to India.
路透社(Reuters)周五的一篇报道称，从军用雷达记录中挑出的信息显示，这架飞机可能被有意地远远飞离其原定的吉隆坡到北京的航线，最后一次记录到的信息显示，它正在飞向属于印度的安达曼岛。
If the aircraft did divert so drastically from its planned route, then any clues left by electronic signals captured by satellite and radar will become far more important. It was not clear if the calculations were underway or had been completed, but ships were headed toward the Indian Ocean.
如果这架飞机的确如此严重地偏离计划航线，那么卫星和雷达捕捉到的任何电子信号将会变得更为重要。还不清楚上面提到的计算是否正在进行、或已经完成，但已有船只开始向印度洋进发。
The multinational effort was scattered across the northern reaches of the Indian Ocean. Indian military forces continued their efforts Friday to find traces of the airplane in the Andaman Sea, to the west of Thailand, and expanded the search to the area west of Nicobar Island in the Bay of Bengal. The search in the Indian Ocean includes ships, planes and nearly 1,000 personnel from India’s navy, coast guard and air force.
多国搜救工作主要分布在印度洋北部。印度军队周五继续在安达曼海和泰国西部沿海搜索这架飞机的踪迹，并将搜寻范围扩大到孟加拉湾的尼科巴岛西部海域。在印度洋进行搜寻的有来自印度海军、海岸警卫队和空军的船只、飞机，以及近1000名人员。
A spokesman for the Indian Navy refused on Friday to offer an estimate of how long the search might take. “How can you ask such a question?” said the spokesman, Capt. D.K. Sharma. “This is like looking for a needle in that vast expanse of sea.”
印度海军发言人周五拒绝对这次搜寻可能会需要多长时间进行预测。“你怎么能问这样的问题？”发言人D·K·夏尔马上校(Capt. D.K. Sharma)说，“这好像是在浩瀚无垠的大海里寻找一根针。”
The Chinese government announced that the Haixun 31, a civilian patrol ship that has been the command vessel for China’s contingent in the search, would move from the Gulf of Thailand to the Strait of Malacca, on the other side of the peninsula. A report on Chinese state television news said a group of experts had advised the Chinese Maritime Search and Rescue Center to “expand the scope of the search.”
中国政府宣布，负责中国搜寻工作的指挥船、民用巡逻船海巡31号，将从泰国湾前往位于马来西亚半岛另一侧的马六甲海峡。中国国家电视台的一篇报道称，一个专家组已经建议中国海事搜救中心要“扩大搜寻范围”。
On Friday the United States Navy continued its maritime aircraft patrols, focusing on the area to the west of Malaysia, said Cmdr. William Marks, spokesman for the Seventh Fleet. The Navy’s new P-8A Poseidon patrol craft arrived on Friday, he said. The aircraft, built with the airframe of a Boeing 737, has a range of more than 1,300 miles and can search vast swathes of ocean. India on Thursday said it was also deploying its own variant of the aircraft, the P-8i, as well as the C-130J Hercules and other aircraft.
美国海军周五继续在海上进行空中巡逻，目标在马来西亚半岛以西，第七舰队(Seventh Fleet)发言人威廉·马克斯中校(Cmdr. William Marks)说。他还说，美国海军最新的P-8A海神(P-8A Poseidon)巡逻机周五已经抵达。这种巡逻机用的是波音737型号的机身，飞行距离可达2000公里以上，可以在很宽的条型海域上进行搜索。印度周四称也已派出该国类似类型的P-8i巡逻机、名为C-130J“大力神”(C-130J Hercules)的飞机，以及其他飞机参与搜索。
The difficulty, Commander Marks said in an interview, was that given the vastness of the Indian Ocean, the area is best patrolled by aircraft, but ships and helicopters are capable of more thorough and intense searches.
马克斯在采访中说，困难在于，由于印度洋的浩瀚，用飞机巡逻是最好的方法，但更彻底、更深入的搜索要靠船只和直升机来进行。