LONDON — The British government temporarily halted flights to Britain from the Egyptian resort city of Sharm el Sheikh on Wednesday after Prime Minister David Cameron said in a statement that a Russian chartered jet that broke apart over the Sinai Peninsula on Saturday “may well have been brought down by an explosive device.”
伦敦——英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)发表声明称，上周六俄罗斯包机在西奈半岛上空的解体坠毁“可能是因爆炸装置”导致的，之后，英国政府于周三暂停从埃及度假城市沙姆沙伊赫飞往英国的航班。
The statement by Cameron was the strongest so far by an official of any government to suggest that a bomb may have been responsible for the downing of the plane, which killed all 224 people on board, adding to the series of alarming details that raise the specter of terrorism.
卡梅伦是迄今最明确表示飞机可能因炸弹而坠毁的政府官员，给恐怖主义疑云又增添一个令人警觉的细节，此次飞机坠毁事件导致机上224人死亡。
A European official briefed on the investigation said the initial inspection of the flight data recorder recovered from the plane indicated that the recording ceased abruptly, evidence that would support the theory of a midair explosion. U.S. military officials said Tuesday that satellite surveillance had detected a flash of light just as the jet broke apart, indicating the plane had exploded, either because of a bomb or the ignition of a fuel tank.
一名了解调查进展的欧洲官员表示，对从飞机上获取的飞行数据记录器所做的初步检查显示，记录突然停止，这支持了有关空中爆炸的推测。美国军官在周二表示，飞机解体时，卫星监测系统探测到一道闪光，这说明飞机发生了爆炸，原因要么是炸弹爆炸，要么是油箱起火。
Another U.S. intelligence official said intercepted communications added to the possibility of a bomb. But the officials cautioned that it was premature to draw any firm conclusions.
另一名美国情报官员表示，截获的通讯消息加大了炸弹爆炸的可能性。但官员们警告称，现在得出最终结论还为时过早。
“There's not one thing that we know that is saying to us `this is a bomb,”' said one of the U.S. officials, who like others spoke on condition of anonymity because they were discussing intelligence considered preliminary and classified. “It's just all indications of this or that, and not clear right now.”
“据我们所知，还没有证据告诉我们‘有炸弹’”，其中一名美国官员说，“只不过是有这样或那样的迹象。”由于他们讨论的是初步且机密的情报消息，这名官员和其他人一样要求匿名。
Cameron's office announced the decision on the eve of a meeting in London with Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi.
卡梅伦办公室在卡梅伦与埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)的伦敦会面前夕宣布了这一决定。
Russian and Egyptian investigators are still investigating the cause of the crash. On Wednesday, an Egyptian affiliate of the Islamic State seemed to gloat about the alarm its claim of responsibility had created, even without corroborating evidence that the group had brought down the plane.
俄罗斯及埃及的调查人员仍在调查飞机坠毁的原因。即便没有确凿证据，伊斯兰国的埃及分支宣称对此事负责的举动也引发了恐慌，该分支周三似乎对此感到洋洋得意。
“Die of your rage,” a spokesman for the militant group declared in an audio statement. “We are not forced to disclose the mechanism of our downing it. So you may bring the wreckage of the plane and search it, and you may bring your black box and analyze it. Report to us the conclusions,” the spokesman continued.
“愤怒得要死吧，”该激进组织的发言人在音频声明中声称。他继续说道，“没人能迫使我们公开击落飞机的方式。所以你们可以带走飞机残骸，进行调查，可以带走黑匣子，进行分析。然后告诉我们结论。”