LONDON — Clearly anxious about her thin majority in Parliament before complicated negotiations on the British exit from the European Union, Prime Minister Theresa May on Tuesday called for a snap election for June 8, a vote that her opponents will bill as a verdict on her tough brand of Brexit.
伦敦——在英国进行复杂的脱欧谈判之前，首相特丽莎‧梅(Theresa May)明显对她的政党在议会的微弱优势感到担忧。 周二，她要求在6月8日提前举行大选，这个投票将被反对者视为她强势脱欧态度的明证。
In breaking her often-repeated vow not to call an early election before 2020, May emphasized the need for unity in Parliament before undertaking what promises to be complex and tortuous negotiations on Britain’s exit from the bloc.
之前梅曾再三保证说不会在2020年之前进行选举，现在她打破承诺，强调需要先实现议会内的团结一致，然后再进行可能复杂而曲折的英国脱欧谈判。
“The country is coming together, but Westminster is not,” May said in a sudden appearance outside the prime minister’s residence at 10 Downing St., adding that she had “only recently and reluctantly come to this conclusion.”
梅突然出现在唐宁街10号首相官邸外面，表示：“整个国家正在团结起来，但威斯敏斯特却没有”，她说这是自己“最近才不情愿地得出的结论”。
Having fired the starting gun for two years of talks with Brussels and the other 27 members of the European Union only last month, May is already facing divisions within her own Conservative Party. She is clearly counting on a strong performance in June — before those talks get serious and difficult, before the British economy is seen to be hit and before critical German elections in the fall — to carry her government through the exit, hard or soft, which she has promised to deliver.
就在上个月，梅开启了与布鲁塞尔和欧盟其他27个成员国为期两年的谈判过程，现在她自己的保守党内已经出现了分裂事态。她明显寄望于6月份会有强劲表现——在脱欧谈判变得严肃而艰难、在英国经济被认为遭到冲击，以及重要的德国选举在秋季举行之前——以便带领政府走过脱欧历程，无论是硬脱欧还是软脱欧，她已经许下过承诺。
The financial markets bid up the pound on the news, apparently anticipating a Conservative sweep that would give May the mandate to override hard-liners in her own party who might resist concessions to the European Union in return for market access — the so-called soft Brexit.
消息传出后，金融市场哄抬英镑，似乎预测保守党将大获全胜，让梅可以压倒自己党内的强硬派，因为他们可能会抵制“软脱欧”——即对欧盟做出让步，以便获得进入欧盟市场的许可。
Certainly, the Conservatives’ election prospects look promising. They are riding high in the opinion polls, with the Labour Party under Jeremy Corbyn in disarray, the centrist Liberal Democrats weak and the shambolic far-right U.K. Independence Party, if anything, more a threat to Labour than to the Tories.
当然，保守党的选举前景看上去相当光明。在民意测验中，保守党声势高涨，杰里米·科尔宾(Jeremy Corbyn)的工党处境不妙，中间派别自由民主党走弱，乱哄哄的极右派别英国独立党(UK Independence Party)如果说有什么影响的话，那它对工党的威胁比对保守派更大。
But the decision does carry political risks for May. For a politician who has cultivated a reputation as a straight shooter who puts country before party, the about-face on early elections could smack of opportunism. And in a year of election surprises, embittered but highly motivated voters from the Remain camp could coalesce behind one of the parties to register their anger over leaving the bloc.
但这一决定也确实给梅带来了政治风险。对于一个已经树立起把国家置于党派之上的正直声望的政客而言，在提前选举问题上转变态度有机会主义之嫌。而且，在一个选举结果出人意料的年份，留欧阵营里愤怒而高度踊跃的选民可能会聚集在某一个党派之后，发泄他们对脱欧的愤怒。