LONDON — Britons will vote on June 23 on whether to stay in the European Union or to quit, Prime Minister David Cameron said Saturday, announcing the date of a referendum that could have momentous consequences for a divided Britain and for the rest of Europe.
伦敦——英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)周六表示，该国将于6月23日进行全民公投，以决定英国是继续留在欧盟，还是退出。这次公投将对陷入分歧的英国和其他欧洲国家产生极其重要的影响。
Mr. Cameron made the announcement after presiding over a meeting of his cabinet — which is itself split over Europe — and hours after securing a hard-fought deal, which he said gave Britain “special status” in the 28-nation bloc.
在宣布这一消息之前，卡梅伦主持了一场内阁会议——在欧盟问题上，内阁本身意见并不统一。此时距离他以艰难的谈判敲定一项与欧盟的协议也不过几小时之遥。他表示，这项协议让英国在欧盟28个成员国中保有“特殊地位”。
“We are approaching one of the biggest decisions this country will face in our lifetimes,” Mr. Cameron said outside his office on Downing Street, adding that he would recommend a vote to stay. “Leaving Europe would threaten our economic and national security,” he added.
“我们即将面对的，是在我们有生之年里这个国家面临的最重要的抉择之一，”卡梅伦在自己位于唐宁街的官邸外说道，并表示他会建议英国人投票选择留下。“退出欧盟会对我们的经济和国家安全产生威胁，”他接着说。
Highlighting the historic nature of the decision facing Britain, the cabinet met for the first time on a Saturday in more than three decades, and talked for more than two hours.
英国在三十多年里首次在周六举行内阁会，而且时间长达两个多小时，突显出英国面临的这一决策的重大历史意义。
The stakes are high for Britain, for the European Union and for Mr. Cameron personally. A vote by Britain to leave would further damage a European Union already battling to control an economic crisis in its single currency zone, and a wave of immigration, prompted partly by the civil war in Syria.
对于英国、欧盟和卡梅伦本人而言，这项决策都关系重大。如果投票结果是退出，将对欧盟形成进一步的打击，后者本已身处困境，在竭力控制其单一货币区内的经济危机，并要应对部分由叙利亚内战引发的移民潮。
For Britain, a withdrawal would have major implications, too, because it could lose automatic access to Europe’s single market, provoke economic uncertainty and leave the country more isolated internationally. Demands for a new referendum on Scottish independence could be triggered if the English vote differently from the more pro-European Scots.
对于英国而言，退出欧盟也会有不少严重后果，因为这将使它失去自动进入欧洲单一市场的权利，会引发经济不稳定，还会使英国在国际上变得更加孤立。如果英格兰和更加亲欧洲的苏格兰的投票结果不同，还有可能引发苏格兰人提出再次就其独立议题进行公投的要求。
On Saturday, Mr. Cameron lost no time in highlighting economic and other risks of a British withdrawal, which he called a “leap in the dark.”
周六，卡梅伦抓紧一切时间强调英国退出欧盟会在经济和其他方面带来多么大的风险，他将其称为“跳入深渊”。
Yet the referendum remains a gamble for Mr. Cameron, who has often sounded critical of the European Union in the past, but has now shifted to support a bloc that he admits he does not love. His tone became noticeably more pro-European after an agreement struck in Brussels on Friday giving concessions to Britain on a range of economic, sovereignty and welfare issues. His most senior allies, including, significantly, Theresa May, the home secretary, will support Mr. Cameron’s bid to stay inside the bloc.
但对卡梅伦来说，公投仍然是一场赌注。过去，他经常对欧盟有所指责，现在他却转向支持他承认自己并不喜欢的这一联盟。周五在布鲁塞尔达成一项在一系列经济、主权和福利问题上对英国有所让步的协议之后，卡梅伦的论调明显变得更加亲欧。卡梅伦的大多数高层盟友将支持他让英国继续留在欧盟的诉求，包括举足轻重的内政大臣特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)。
Yet six cabinet ministers made it clear on Saturday that they will campaign for a British exit — known as Brexit.
然而，有六名内阁大臣在周六明确表示，他们会推动“英国退出欧盟”（简称Brexit）。
The most significant of those is Michael Gove, the justice secretary and a personal friend of Mr. Cameron’s, whose decision personifies the fissures at the top of the Conservative Party.
其中最引人关注的是卡梅伦私下的好友、司法大臣迈克尔·戈夫(Michael Gove)。他的决定体现出保守党最高层的分歧。
But uncertainty surrounds the position of Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, whose support would be seen as a big asset by the “no” campaign because he is renowned as a communicator.
不过，目前还不确定伦敦市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)持何立场。他的支持将被“不”阵营看做一项重要的资产，因为他以擅长沟通著称。
Mr. Johnson, long a Euroskeptic, has not yet made his views on withdrawal from the union clear, and his position is thought by many to be significant because the outcome of the referendum is hard to predict.
长期以来一直持欧洲怀疑论的约翰逊，还没有就英国退出欧盟明确表达自己的看法。有不少人看重他在这件事上的立场，因为公投的结果难以预测。
Meanwhile the two main groups campaigning for a British departure lack a convincing leader and are divided on tactics. One favors the argument that the European Union lacks democratic accountability, and that it stifles economic growth. A second group places more emphasis on immigration, and says that Britain can only fully regain control of this policy if it quits the bloc.
与此同时，推动英国退出欧盟的两个主要团体缺少有说服力的领导人，而且它们还存在策略分歧。其中一个团体倾向于采用欧盟缺少民主问责且会遏制经济增长的论调。另一个则把重点放在移民问题上，表示只有退出欧盟，英国才能重获对移民政策的全盘掌控。