LONDON — She rose from being a secretary in Rupert Murdoch’s British newspaper empire to running it. She called prime ministers her friends. Then she found herself in the middle of one of the most riveting trials in years, accused of illegally intercepting voice mails and other crimes, alongside her husband and her former deputy, who it turned out, was also her lover.
伦敦——开始，她在鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)的英国报业帝国里只是一名秘书，后来层层拔擢，成了当家人。她说首相是她的朋友。后来，她发现自己陷入了数年来最引人注目的案件。她因为非法窃听电话留言和其他罪行而受到指控，与她一同受控的还有她的丈夫和前副主编。后来曝光，后者也是她的情人。
And on Tuesday, in the latest twist in her extraordinary saga, Rebekah Brooks, the protagonist of Britain’s phone hacking trial, who more than any other defendant had come to symbolize the freewheeling tabloid press and its proximity to power, was acquitted of all charges against her.
周二，英国电话窃听案主角丽贝卡·布鲁克斯(Rebekah Brooks)不同寻常的传奇故事又出现了新的转折——她被无罪释放。与其他被告人相比，如今她最能体现小报肆无忌惮的报道风格，以及这种媒体与权力阶层的紧密关系。
Her former lover, Andy Coulson, who succeeded her as editor at the now-defunct Sunday tabloid at the heart of the hacking scandal and who later became a spokesman for Prime Minister David Cameron, was found guilty of a conspiracy to intercept voice mails. Of the seven defendants in the case, Mr. Coulson was the only one to be convicted Tuesday; the jury has yet to decide on two other charges against Mr. Coulson, who faces a maximum of two years in prison for hacking, and another defendant.
布鲁克斯曾经的情人安迪·库尔森(Andy Coulson)因阴谋窃听电话留言而获罪。之前，他接替了布鲁克斯，在陷入窃听漩涡中心的星期日小报担任了主编，这家小报现已停刊。之后，库尔森成了英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)的发言人。在此案的七名被告中，周二只有库尔森一人被定罪；陪审团还需针对库尔森和另一名被告所面临的另外两项指控作出判决。库尔森可能会因为窃听入狱，面临最高两年的刑期。
That single conviction belied the outsize impact of a yearslong saga that produced parliamentary hearings, humbled Mr. Murdoch, led to a new media law and spurred a cleanup of the worst practices in tabloid newsrooms.
这起延续数年之久的事件所产生的影响，远比此次的判决更加深远——议会举行了相关的听证会、默多克因此锐气大挫、英国还制定了新的媒体法，而且促使小报的新闻编辑部中最糟糕的一些行为得到清理。
The trial embarrassed many in Britain’s media and political establishment, inducing additional political heartburn for Mr. Cameron, who on Tuesday apologized publicly for having hired Mr. Coulson as one of his top aides in 2007. Testimony in the trial revealed that former Prime Minister Tony Blair offered to act as an “unofficial adviser” to Ms. Brooks after she was implicated in the case.
此次审判让英国媒体和政治体制中的许多人感到尴尬，也再一次给卡梅伦造成了难堪的政治影响。周二，卡梅伦公开对2007年聘请库尔森担任他的首席助手的做法表示了道歉。法院的证词表明，在布鲁克斯被牵连到这起案件中之后，英国前首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)曾主动提出担任她的“非正式顾问”。
Tense and at times tawdry, the trial has also exposed in great detail the inner workings of British tabloid journalism — the six-figure price tags paid for celebrity scoops, the scavenging in trash cans and the systematic eavesdropping on the cellphones of celebrities, sports stars, politicians, members of the royal family and others caught up in the news.
紧张且时而显得低俗的审判过程中，也大量暴露了英国小报新闻的内部运作方式——为获取名人的独家消息而支付6位数的报酬、翻找垃圾桶，以及对名人、体育明星、政治人士、皇室成员和其他新闻人物的手机进行系统性的窃听。
Ms. Brooks and Mr. Coulson, both 46, were close colleagues and friends who rose from scrappy tabloid newsrooms to become members of the London elite. Part of the prosecution’s case was that their relationship was so intimate that they would have shared what they knew about how their newspapers were operating, including the phone hacking. But in the jury room, their parallel careers diverged with finality.
布鲁克斯和库尔森都是46岁，他们曾关系密切，既是同事又是朋友。他们都来自忙乱生猛的小报编辑部，之后得以跻身伦敦的精英阶层。检察官的部分理由是，既然他们的关系如此密切，肯定会分享自己对报纸的运作方式所了解的信息，包括电话窃听。但在陪审团看来，他们相似的职业生涯，最终却走向了不同的方向。
He was found to have admitted enough knowledge of what was going on that he could be convicted on at least one charge of conspiracy to intercept cellphone calls and messages. She apparently managed to convince the jury that she was sufficiently removed from it that it was possible she was unaware.
陪审团认为，库尔森承认他对事态有足够多的了解，足以使至少一项涉及阴谋窃听电话和截取信息的罪名成立。但布鲁克斯似乎成功地说服陪审团，当时她与事态有相当的距离，所以有可能并不知情。
When the verdict was read and Ms. Brooks was cleared of charges related to phone hacking, hiding evidence and bribing public officials for information, she appeared to be overcome by emotion and was led away by a court official. Mr. Coulson clenched his jaw, then took a deep breath and stared straight ahead.
法庭的判决撤销了布鲁克斯身上涉及电话窃听、藏匿证据、通过贿赂政府官员获取信息的所有指控。宣读判决结果时，她显得非常激动，随后被法院工作人员带出法庭。库尔森则咬紧牙关，深吸了一口气，目光凝视前方。
During the trial, the jury heard that Mr. Coulson commented “brilliant” when a journalist played him an intercepted voice mail left for the James Bond star Daniel Craig by the actress Sienna Miller. When a reporter was working on a story about Calum Best, a television celebrity, Mr. Coulson told him to “do his phone.”
庭审过程中，陪审团获悉，当一名记者给他播放截取到的一则电话留言时，库尔森曾评论说“太棒了”。那是女演员西耶娜·米勒(Sienna Miller)给饰演詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)的男星丹尼尔·克雷格(Daniel Craig)的留言。一名记者在写一篇关于电视名人卡拉姆·贝斯特(Calum Best)的报道时，库尔森曾告诉这名记者“搞一下他的电话”。
Prosecutors had presented phone data confirming widespread hacking during Mr. Coulson’s editorship of News of the World from 2003 to 2007. There was far less evidence of hacking from 2000 to 2003, when Ms. Brooks was in charge.
检方提供的电话数据证明，2003年到2007年库尔森担任《世界新闻报》(News of the World)主编期间，该报存在大量窃听行为。而2000年至2003年，布鲁克斯担任主编期间的窃听证据则要少很多。
The most controversial instance of hacking, however, did occur on her watch, in 2002: News of The World intercepted the voice mail of a kidnapped teenager, Milly Dowler, who was later found dead. When The Guardian disclosed the hacking in 2011, it galvanized public outrage at unscrupulous tabloid practices and helped pave the way to the trial.
不过，最具争议的窃听事件还是发生在她在任的2002年：《世界新闻报》窃听了被绑架少女米莉·道勒(Milly Dowler)的电话留言，这名少女最后遇害。当《卫报》(The Guardian)在2011年披露这起窃听事件时，小报这种不道德的行为让公众十分愤怒，并为审判的展开扫清了道路。
During the week in question in 2002, however, Ms. Brooks was on vacation and her then-deputy, Mr. Coulson, was in charge. The prosecution failed to persuade the jury that as Mr. Coulson’s boss and on-and-off lover, Ms. Brooks must have known.
然而就在2002年的那一周，布鲁克斯正在休假，负责的是当时她手下的副主编库尔森。但检方未能说服陪审团，作为库尔森的老板以及分分合合的情人，布鲁克斯肯定知情。
Roy Greenslade, a professor of journalism at City University in London, said many in Britain had expected her to be convicted. “People will be outraged that the prosecution couldn’t make a good enough case,” he said.
伦敦城市大学(City University London)的新闻学教授罗伊·格林斯莱德(Roy Greenslade)说，英国有许多人都曾希望她被判有罪。他说，“如果检方拿不出足够好的理由来给她定罪，人们会很愤怒。”
Ms. Brooks and her husband, Charlie, a racehorse trainer who was also acquitted of charges of hiding evidence (along with his pornography collection) from the police, left the court in a taxi without offering comment. The other people acquitted were Ms. Brooks’s former personal assistant, Cheryl Carter, 50; Mark Hanna, 51, a former security director; and Stuart Kuttner, 74, a retired managing editor. The jury is still considering further charges against Mr. Coulson and Clive Goodman, 56, the former royals editor of News of the World, on charges related to paying police officers for access to royal telephone directories.
布鲁克斯和她的丈夫查利(Charlie)乘出租车离开了法院，其间并未发表任何意见。查利是一名赛马训练师，他最初被控对警方藏匿证据（以及他收藏的色情影片），最后也被无罪释放。其他无罪释放的人还有：布鲁克斯的前私人助理50岁的切丽尔·卡特(Cheryl Carter)；前安全主管51岁的马克·汉纳(Mark Hanna)；以及退休的执行主编74岁的斯图尔特·库特纳(Stuart Kuttner)。陪审团仍在讨论库尔森和克莱夫·古德曼(Clive Goodman)受到的其他指控。56岁的古德曼是《世界新闻报》的前皇室新闻主编。他被控曾为获得皇室电话号码簿而贿赂警察。
At times Britain’s phone-hacking scandal has felt like a badly scripted television drama, with all its barely believable turns and twists: the father-daughter-like relationship between Mr. Murdoch and Ms. Brooks; her $17.6 million severance payment from News International (renamed News UK since); a steamy love letter to Mr. Coulson that was read out in court; and a tabloid-style defense strategy that featured the kind of highly personal revelations for which the tabloids Ms. Brooks once edited might have paid six figures, like the adultery and the daughter she had by a surrogate mother.
有时候，英国的电话窃听丑闻听起来就像是一部写得很烂的电视剧，所有的剧情转折都令人难以置信：默多克与布鲁克斯之间类似父女的关系；新闻国际公司（News International，之后更名为新闻英国[News UK]）给布鲁克斯发的1760万美元（约合1亿元人民币）的遣散费；法庭宣读了一封写给库尔森的措辞露骨的情书；以及充满小报色彩的辩护策略——大量透露个人隐私，比如她的婚外情，以及代孕母亲替她生下的女儿等。布鲁克斯曾担任主编的小报，可能会为这样的爆料支付6位数的报酬。
“My personal life was a bit of a car crash,” she said in the witness stand early on.
早些时候，她曾在证人席上说，“我的个人生活就像一场车祸。”
This may not be the end of legal action against Mr. Murdoch’s News UK. More trials loom, involving 20 current or former reporters from The Sun and News of the World, accused of phone hacking and paying public officials for information.
默多克的新闻英国面临的法律行动可能不会就此结束。目前还有更多案件等待审理，涉及20名《太阳报》(The Sun)和《世界新闻报》(News of the World)的现任和前任记者。他们被指控曾窃听电话，并通过贿赂官员换取信息。
The Guardian reported Tuesday that News UK itself may be charged as a corporation, following Mr. Coulson’s conviction. Mr. Murdoch and his son James, the former executive chairman of the company, might both face questioning by the police in the “near future,” the newspaper reported.
《卫报》周二报道，库尔森被定罪后，新闻英国公司也可能会受到指控。《卫报》称，默多克和他的儿子、该公司前执行董事长詹姆斯(James)可能都会在“不久的将来”面临警方审讯。
In an internal memo to his staff on Tuesday, Mike Darcey, the current chief executive of Mr. Murdoch’s News UK, urged staff members to “hold your head high.”
周二，默多克的新闻英国公司的现任首席执行官迈克·达西(Mike Darcey)在给员工的一份内部备忘录中敦促员工“昂起头来”。