ALTOFTS, England — A proposed high-speed railroad known as HS2 is Britain’s biggest and most controversial transportation plan, a Continental-style “grand projet” meant to ease crowded trains and congested tracks, reduce automobile traffic and generate economic growth.
英格兰阿尔托弗茨——英国计划修建一条被称作HS2的高速铁路，这是英国规模最大且最具争议的交通规划。修建这个大陆式“宏伟工程”的目的在于缓解火车拥挤和铁路线拥堵的现象、减少公路车流以及刺激经济增长。
Supported by the three main political parties, High Speed 2 is also supposed to help rebalance Britain’s lopsided economy, spreading wealth from the affluent southeast to the scrabbling, post-industrial north.
三个主要政党都对高速2（High Speed 2，简写HS2）计划表示支持，人们还期望利用它来使英国失衡的经济恢复平衡，把财富从富裕的东南部转移到正在苦苦挣扎的、后工业化的北部地区。
Yet as cost estimates have risen — the budget now stands at £42.6 billion, or $65.8 billion — so has opposition to the project. And some of the strongest resistance comes from the very parts of the north that HS2 is supposed to help.
然而，随着预计成本提高——目前的预算是426亿英镑（约合4050亿元人民币）——反对声也越来越大。而其中最强烈的一些抵制声则来自本应该受益于HS2的北部地区。
Few dispute that Britain’s creaking rail network needs an update. A report commissioned by a British trade union last year said the country’s railways compared poorly in terms of affordability, comfort and speed with those of Germany, France, Spain and Italy.
少数人辩称，英国老旧的铁路系统需要升级。去年某英国工会委托进行的一项研究显示，英国铁路在票价低廉程度、舒适度和速度方面根本无法与德国、法国、西班牙和意大利的相比。
David Higgins, head of Network Rail, which oversees Britain’s tracks and stations, has said that 30 years of continuous investment would be necessary to bring the quality of the British railroad system up to the level of the best networks on the Continent.
负责监管英国轨道和火车站的英国铁路网(Network Rail)的负责人戴维·希金斯(David Higgins)曾表示，对于把英国铁路系统的质量提高到欧洲大陆最佳水平而言，30年的持续投资是有必要的。
But a popular rebellion against HS2, which began in scenic and affluent areas along the first section of the planned line, between London and Birmingham, has spread northward.
HS2计划线路的第一部分位于伦敦和伯明翰之间，这里风景秀丽而且经济富裕，广大人民对HS2的反对就开始于这里，而且还已经蔓延到了北方。
“We do need investment in the north, we do need a rebalanced economy and we do need better transport infrastructure,” said Peter Box, leader of Wakefield Council, a municipality of 326,000 people in an area once dominated by a coal mining industry that is now moribund. “At the moment, we are not convinced the economic case has been made.”
“北方确实需要投资，我们也的确需要平衡的经济，而且我们还需要更好的交通基础设施，”韦克菲尔德市议会议长彼得·博克斯(Peter Box)说。这座城市拥有32.6万人口，煤矿开采行业曾经在这里占主导地位，但是如今已经消亡。“目前，他们还无法使我们相信这件事在经济上具有合理性。”
Civic leaders in nearby Leeds, where the high-speed trains would stop, favor the project. But in Wakefield, where few jobs would be created or benefits derived, skepticism prevails.
高速列车将停靠附近城市利兹，这里的市政领导人都对该项目表示支持。但是这个项目并不能为韦克菲尔德创造很多就业机会或带来其他好处，所以人们纷纷对此持怀疑态度。
Currently, trains from Wakefield station can reach London in 1 hour and 55 minutes. Traveling from Leeds to London on HS2 would take just 82 minutes, an hour less than currently. But for residents of Wakefield, getting to Leeds to catch one of the high-speed trains would offset much of the time saved.
目前，从韦克菲尔德火车站出发的列车抵达伦敦需要1小时55分。而乘HS2从利兹到伦敦将只需要82分钟，比现在少了一个小时。但是对于韦克菲尔德的居民来说，到利兹去坐高铁的时间就会抵消路上节省的时间。
Stephen Abson of nearby Altofts says he dreads imagining the noise here if the rail link goes ahead as planned, with trains zipping by at 225 miles per hour, or about 360 kilometers per hour, only a few hundred yards from his home.
斯蒂芬·阿布森(Stephen Abson)来自附近的阿尔托弗茨，他说如果铁路线路继续按计划修建，一想到这里即将出现的噪音，他就感到头疼。按计划，火车将以约每小时360公里的速度呼啸而过，而他家离这里只有几百码之遥。
The owner of a real estate business, Mr. Abson says the project is already depressing house prices in the area a full two decades before the line would open. And a speedier Leeds-to-London ride would not help Mr. Abson and his neighbors, because the high-speed trains will bypass Wakefield, their local station.
阿布森拥有一家房地产企业，他说现在离线路开通还有整整20年时间，但该地区的房价已经受到影响而下跌。而且从利兹到伦敦更快速的交通也不能给阿布森和他的邻居带来什么便利，因为这些高铁列车不会停靠当地的韦克菲尔德站。
“I think we can get enough people on board to realize that this is one big white elephant,” said Mr. Abson.
“我觉得会有足够多的人认识到这只是一个大而无用的建设，”阿布森说。
Supporters say HS2 makes sense because Britain needs new track to deal with growing demand, and the extra cost of high-speed rail provides good value. As well as hastening journeys, HS2 would free up crowded freight routes and ease congestion on regional passenger trains, the government says, while supporting the creation of 100,000 new jobs.
支持者则表示建设HS2十分合理，因为英国需要修建新的轨道来应对不断增长的需求，而且高速铁路的额外投入会很值得。政府表示，HS2不仅能为旅程提速，而且还将减轻拥挤的货运路线的压力，缓解区域性客运列车的拥堵，同时为创造10万个新的就业岗位提供支持。
But in a recent report, the National Audit Office, an impartial watchdog, questioned some government calculations and said that it was too early to conclude “whether the program is likely to deliver value for money.”
然而，中立的监督机构英国国家审计办公室(National Audit Office)在最近发布的一份报告中对政府的一些考量提出了质疑，并表示就“该项目是否能够物有所值”得出结论为时尚早。
The Department for Transport “has poorly articulated the strategic need for a transformation in rail capacity and how High Speed 2 will help rebalance economic growth,” the audit office added.
国家审计办公室补充道，英国交通部(Department for Transport)“对铁路运力改革的战略需求，以及HS2将如何帮助重新平衡经济发展，没有给出明确的解释。”
Peter Mandelson, a cabinet member in the previous government that approved HS2, now says that the economic case “needs to be gone into with more thoroughness than we did at the time.”
批准HS2项目的上届政府，其内阁成员彼得·曼德尔森(Peter Mandelson)如今表示，对这一项目的经济合理性“研究需要比我们当初做得更透彻。”
Mr. Mandelson said he was worried that “the effort, energy and resources for HS2 in the north will be at the expense of the rest of the rail network outside London.”
曼德尔森说，他担心“在北部修建HS2所需投入的精力、能源和资源将以牺牲伦敦以外余下的铁路网为代价”。
But Simon Burns, the minister responsible for rail, argues that without modernization, capacity on the main line that serves the west of England will be exhausted sometime between 2020 and 2024.
但英国负责铁路事务的大臣西蒙·伯恩斯(Simon Burns)则表示，如果不进行现代化改革，在2020年到2024年间某个时刻，服务于英格兰西部主要线路的运力将会用尽。
“If you do nothing there will be full capacity on the west coast main line in the next 10 years,” he said, “and then you’ll have complaints that we have not reacted to meet the ever-increasing number of people using the railways.”
“如果不采取任何措施，今后10年内，西部海岸主要线路的运力将达到饱和，”伯恩斯说，“那时就会有人抱怨，说我们没有及早采取措施来满足不断增长的铁路交通用户。”
“There were people who argued against the building of the motorways in the late 1950s and early 1960s,” Mr. Burns said. “But very few people now would suggest that that was the wrong decision.”
“20世纪50年代末、60年代初，就有人反对建造高速公路，”伯恩斯说，“但现在很少有人认为当时建设高速公路是个错误的决定。”