LONDON — In the week of an election that has failed to make hearts flutter, many in Britain rejoiced on Monday after Kensington Palace announced that Britain’s new princess would be named Charlotte Elizabeth Diana.
伦敦——在这个连大选都没能让人提起精神的星期，周一，当白金汉宫宣布英国新公主将取名为夏洛特·伊丽莎白·戴安娜(Charlotte Elizabeth Diana)时，许多英国人心里都充满了欣喜。
The baby, the second child of Prince William and his wife, the former Kate Middleton — and the fifth great-grandchild of Queen Elizabeth — will be known as Her Royal Highness Princess Charlotte of Cambridge.
这个女婴将被尊称为剑桥夏洛特公主殿下(Her Royal Highness Princess Charlotte of Cambridge)——她是威廉王子(Prince William)和他本名为凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)的妻子的第二个孩子，也是伊丽莎白女王(Queen Elizabeth)的第五个曾孙。
The name for the princess, the fourth in line to the throne, seemed to reach across several generations, paying apparent tribute to the baby’s late grandmother, Princess Diana, and to her great-grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II. Charlotte is the feminine form of Charles, so she is also apparently named after her paternal grandfather, Prince Charles, as well as two British kings from Stuart times.
这位公主是王位的第四顺位继承人，她的名字似乎与几代人有关，同时致敬了已故的祖母戴安娜王妃(Princess Diana)，以及她的曾祖母女王伊丽莎白二世(Queen Elizabeth II)。夏洛特是查尔斯(Charles)对应的女名，因此，她似乎也得名于祖父查尔斯王子(Prince Charles)，以及斯图亚特时代的两位英国国王。
Whether those are the actual reasons for the choice of name, though, the palace isn’t commenting. “We’ll let the names speak for themselves,” the BBC quoted a Kensington Palace official as saying.
不过对于这是否是命名的真实原因，王室没有发表评论。“我们还是让名字自己说话吧。”英国广播公司(BBC)援引肯辛顿宫(Kensington Palace)一名官员的话报道。
As befits a princess whose birth is adding luster and modernity to an age-old institution, an announcement of the name was made on Twitter. But the BBC said that the Queen and other senior members of the royal household were told of the name before it was announced publicly.
公主的出生给这个古老的体制增添了光彩和现代感，与之相匹配的是，她的名字是通过Twitter宣布的。但BBC报道，在公布之前，女王和其他王室的长者已经得知了这个名字。
The name Charlotte was a favorite of bettors, along with Diana and Elizabeth, and the British news media reported that bookmakers could be facing huge payouts on the choice. Alice, Victoria and Olivia were also widely favored by bettors.
夏洛特是最受彩民喜爱的选择之一，彩民喜爱的名字还有戴安娜和伊丽莎白。英国新闻媒体报道称，因为这个选择，博彩公司可能需要偿付大笔奖金。爱丽丝(Alice)、维多利亚(Victoria)和奥利维娅(Olivia)也很受彩民欢迎。
The name Charlotte has an august history. It was prominent in the 18th century, and was the name of George III’s queen consort. Charlotte, N.C., and Charlottesville, Va., were named for her.
夏洛特这个名字历史赫然。它在18世纪非常引人注目，也是乔治三世(George III)的王后的名字。美国北卡罗来纳州夏洛特和弗吉尼亚州夏洛茨维尔(Charlottesville)都是以她命名的。
Beyond being an apparent nod to Prince Charles, Charlotte is also the middle name of the baby’s aunt Pippa Middleton, her mother’s sister.
除了明显为了向查尔斯王子致敬之外，夏洛特还是新生公主的阿姨皮帕·米德尔顿(Pippa Middleton)的中间名。皮帕是凯特的妹妹。
The middle name Diana will have particular resonance in the country, considering the outpouring of grief and adulation after Princess Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris in 1997. Reacting to the name, Earl Spencer, Diana’s brother, wrote on Twitter: “Perfect names. My 2-year old Charlotte Diana will be thrilled at cousinly name-sharing. Is at an age where thinks world revolves around her!”
她的中间名戴安娜将在英国引起特殊反响。因为1997年，戴安娜王妃(Princess Diana)在巴黎因车祸丧生之后，人们表达了强烈的悲痛和敬意。戴安娜的弟弟斯宾塞伯爵(Earl Spencer)在Twitter上写道：“完美的名字。我两岁大的夏洛特·戴安娜(Charlotte Diana)肯定会对表妹和自己有相似的名字而激动。她这个年纪，以为整个世界都是在围着她转呢！”
The Duchess of Cambridge, gave birth to the princess at 8:34 a.m. on Saturday. The baby’s birth, which provided Britons with a diversion from a close and divisive election campaign, was greeted by billboards in Central London proclaiming “It’s a Girl!” and “Welcome to the World.”
剑桥公爵夫人(Duchess of Cambridge)于周六上午8点34分产下公主。英国即将举行大选，选情胶着且立场分化严重，她的出生给英国人提供了分散注意力的机会。伦敦市中心的公告板上写道“是个女孩！”、“欢迎来到这个世界”。
On Monday, the bells at Westminster were sounded to mark the birth, and there were royal gun salutes at Hyde Park and the Tower of London.
周一，为了纪念她的降生，威斯敏斯特敲响了钟声，皇家礼炮队还在海德公园(Hyde Park)和伦敦塔(Tower of London)鸣起了礼炮。
The conservative-leaning Daily Telegraph noted that the name Charlotte was French in origin, and that the princess’s name could inspire the nicknames Charlie or Lottie. “But we think she’ll probably be known as Charlotte most of the time,” it said, “especially when she’s been naughty.”
保守派倾向的《每日电讯报》(Daily Telegraph)指出，夏洛特这个名字源于法语，公主的名字可能会让人想起查理(Charlie)或洛蒂(Lottie)等昵称。“但我们认为，大多数时候，人们还是会把她称作夏洛特，”该报写道，“尤其是当她淘气的时候。”