LONDON — A high-profile British inquiry into the poisoning of Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former KGB officer turned critic of the Kremlin, concluded in a report released Thursday that his murder “was probably approved” by President Vladimir Putin of Russia and the head of the country's spy service.
伦敦——英国对亚历山大·V·利特维年科(Alexander V. Litvinenko)中毒事件的高姿态调查的结论在周四的一份报告中公布，结论是，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)及俄罗斯国家间谍部门的负责人“很可能批准了”利特维年科的谋杀，利特维年科是一名前克格勃特工，后来转为克里姆林宫的批评者。
The finding by Robert Owen, a retired High Court judge, in a 328-page report, represented by far the most damning official link between Litvinenko's death on Nov. 23, 2006, and the highest levels of the Kremlin.
结论是高等法院的退休法官罗伯特·欧文(Robert Owen)在一份328页的报告中做出的，该结论在2006年11月23日利特维年科的死亡与克里姆林宫最高层之间建立了比过去强烈得多的官方联系。
The death of Mr. Litvinenko, a whistle-blower who had fought corruption in Moscow’s security services, plunged relations between Britain and Russia into a chill reminiscent of the Cold War. But British officials suggested they would seek to safeguard the country’s broader relationship with Moscow, even as both sides engaged in verbal sparring.
利特维年科曾抵制莫斯科安全部门的腐败，当过举报人，他的死亡让英国与俄罗斯之间的关系跌入可与冷战时期相比的低谷。但英国官员表示，他们将寻求维护英国与莫斯科的更广泛关系，虽然双方在口头上争吵不修。
Judge Owen did not provide any direct evidence linking Mr. Putin or any other high-level Russian officials to the killing, and he acknowledged that he had based his findings on “strong circumstantial evidence of Russian state responsibility.” That included the likely origin of the polonium that was used to poison Mr. Litvinenko in a Russian reactor and the fact that there were “powerful motives for organizations and individuals within the Russian state to take action” against him.
欧文法官未提供将普京或任何其他俄罗斯高层官员与谋杀联系起来的任何直接证据，他承认，他的调查结果建立在“俄罗斯国家责任的强大旁证之上”。这些旁证包括，用来毒死利特维年科的钋可能很可能来自一个俄罗斯反应堆，以及“俄罗斯国家内部有对（利特维年科）采取行动的强大动机的组织和个人”这一事实。
“We regret that the strictly criminal case has been politicized and has darkened the general atmosphere of bilateral relations,” said Maria Zakharova, a Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman in Moscow, Interfax news agency reported. “Certainly, we need some time to thoroughly analyze the contents of this document, after which we will issue our detailed review.”
“我们对这一完全属于刑事犯罪的案件被政治化感到遗憾，此案让已让双边关系的气氛变得黯淡，”据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax news agency)报道，俄罗斯外交部发言人玛丽亚·扎哈诺娃(Maria Zakharova)在莫斯科说。“当然，我们需要一些时间来深入分析这份文件的内容，之后我们会发表我们的详细评论。”
Speaking after the release of the report, Litvinenko's wife, Marina, said she was “very pleased that the words my husband spoke on his deathbed, when he accused Putin, have been proved by an English court.”
利特维年科的遗孀玛丽娜(Marina)在报告发布后说，她对“丈夫在临终前说的话（当时他曾指责普京）得到了英国法院的证明，感到非常高兴。”
Litvinenko died 22 days after ingesting green tea laced with polonium 210 — a rare and highly toxic isotope — in the company of two Russian associates, Andrei K. Lugovoi and Dmitri V. Kovtun. He was 43. The three men had met in the Pine Bar of the Millennium Hotel in London.
利特维年科在两名俄罗斯同事，安德烈·K·卢戈沃伊(Andrei K. Lugovoi )和德米特里·V·科夫通(Dmitri V. Kovtun)陪同下，喝了含钋-210的绿茶，于22天后死去，时年43岁。这三人当时是在伦敦千禧大酒店的松树酒吧见的面。
Lugovoi, now a member of parliament in Russia, said the accusation that he murdered Litvinenko was “absurd,” the Russian news agency Interfax reported, and a Kremlin spokesman, Dmitry S. Peskov, said the Litvinenko case “is not among the topics that interest us.”
卢戈沃伊现在是俄罗斯国会议员，他说，指控他杀死了利特维年科是“荒谬的”，据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社报道。克里姆林宫发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitry S. Peskov)说，利特维年科的案子“不在我们感兴趣的议题当中”。
The inquiry was called after years of dogged efforts by Litvinenko to press for a full accounting of her husband's death. The British police have accused Lugovoi and Kovtun of murder, charges they deny.
多年来，利特维年科的遗孀一直在为丈夫的死亡有一个完整的说法而坚持不懈地努力着，调查的启动是这一努力的结果。英国警方指控卢戈沃伊和科夫通犯有谋杀罪，他俩人均否认这一指控。
The killing also raised questions in London about the potential involvement of Nikolai Patrushev, the head of Russia's FSB security service, the domestic successor to the KGB, at the time of Litvinenko's death, and Putin.
这一谋杀案也在伦敦引起人们对尼古拉·帕特鲁舍夫(Nikolai Patrushev)和普京等其他可能参与者的质疑，帕特鲁舍夫在利特维年科死亡时任俄罗斯联邦安全局（简称FSB）负责人，FSB是由克格勃负责国内事务的部门改制成立的。
“Taking full account of all the evidence and analysis available to me,” Owen said in the report, “I find that the FSB operation to kill Mr. Litvinenko was probably approved by Mr. Patrushev and also by President Putin.”
欧文在报告中写道，“在充分考虑了我能得到的所有证据和分析之后，我得出结论，FSB杀死利特维年科先生的行动很可能得到了帕特鲁舍夫先生的批准，也得到了普京总统的批准。”
As motives for Litvinenko's poisoning, Owen listed various possible factors, including a belief that he had betrayed the FSB during his time working for the organization as an investigator in Moscow and had begun to work for British intelligence after he fled in 2000.
至于要对利特维年科下毒的动机，欧文开列了各种可能的因素，其中包括一个观念，认为利特维年科在莫斯科担任FSB调查员期间，背叛了该机构，而且，他于2000年出逃后，开始为英国情报部门工作。
He was also a close associate of prominent opponents of the Kremlin based in London, including Boris Berezovsky, a former oligarch and enemy of Putin's who died in 2013, the report said.
报告称，利特维年科也与住在伦敦的克里姆林宫著名对手有密切关系，其中包括2013年去世的前寡头、普京的敌人鲍里斯·别列佐夫斯基(Boris Berezovsky)。
“Finally, there was undoubtedly a personal dimension to the antagonism between Mr. Litvinenko on one hand and President Putin on the other,” the report said.
“最后，在利特维年科先生一方与普京总统另一方的敌对关系之间无疑还有一个个人的层面，”报告说。
It excluded any role in the poisoning by the British security services, organized crime gangs, Berezovsky or other associates of Litvinenko.
报告排除了英国安全部门、有组织的犯罪团伙、别列佐夫斯基或其他与利特维年科有关的人在下毒案上的任何作用。
In a deathbed statement, Litvinenko had denounced Putin and accused him of murder — a charge the Russian leader denied.
利特维年科在临终声明中曾指责普京，指控其谋杀。这位俄罗斯领导人对指控表示否认。
“You may succeed in silencing one man, but the howl of protest from around the world will reverberate, Mr. Putin, in your ears for the rest of your life,” Litvinenko's statement said.
利特维年科的声明说，“你可能成功地平息了一个人的声音，但是，普京先生，世界各地的抗议怒吼，将在你有生之年在你的耳中回荡。”
Owen heard public testimony from 62 witnesses in 34 days of hearings. Closed-door hearings were held to interview other witnesses, however, and their testimony will not be included in the final report. The official secrecy reflected a determined effort by British government ministers, citing the needs of national security, to limit the scope of the inquiry's disclosures.
欧文在34天的公开听证会上，听取了62名证人的证词。但是，他也为其他证人举行了保密听证会，这些人的证词将不包括在最后的报告中。官方的保密要求反映了英国政府部长们坚定不移的努力，他们认为，出于国家安全的需要，有必要限制调查所披露的信息的范围。
Testimony included previously unpublished transcripts of police interviews with Litvinenko as he lay in a hospital bed in central London. Based on what he told them, British detectives pieced together an itinerary of his movements and those of his Russian contacts before his death.
证词包括此前未公开的警方与利特维年科交谈的记录，当时他躺在伦敦市中心医院的病床上。从他告诉警方的东西中，英国侦探理出了他死前的活动日程，以及他与之接触过的俄罗斯人的活动日程。
Once the presence of the deadly isotope was discovered, investigators followed what became known as the polonium trail, connecting locations visited by Lugovoi and Kovtun in October and November 2006.
在发现了致命同位素的存在后，调查人员追踪了后来被称为钋迹的线索，把卢戈沃伊和科夫通在2006年10月和11月去过的地方联系起来。
The most striking readings came from the Millennium Hotel, close to the U.S. Embassy, where investigators retrieved a “mangled clump of debris” with high concentrations of polonium from the waste pipe under the wash basin of a bedroom used by Kovtun.
辐射计最引人注目的读数来自靠近美国大使馆的千禧酒店，调查人员在那里，在与科夫通曾住过客房的洗脸盆相连接的下水管道中，找到了含有高浓度钋的“严重损坏的大块残片”。
“The reason that evidence is so pivotal, of course, is because Dmitri Kovtun stayed in that room on the very day that he and Mr. Lugovoi administered the fatal dose of polonium some floors below in the Pine Bar of the same hotel,” Ben Emmerson, a lawyer representing Marina Litvinenko, said on the final day of hearings on July 31, 2015, before Owen began composing the report.
玛丽娜·利特维年科的代理律师本·埃默森(Ben Emmerson)在听证会的最后一天说，“该证据之所以如此关键，原因当然是，德米特里·科夫通在他和卢戈沃伊先生在同一饭店几层楼下的松树酒吧投下了致命剂量钋的那天，就住在那个房间里。”听证会的最后一天是2015年7月31日，之后欧文开始编写调查报告。
At the same hearings, Richard Horwell, a lawyer representing Scotland Yard, told the inquiry that “it is the scientific evidence that condemns Lugovoi and Kovtun,” who “have no credible answer to the scientific evidence and to the trail of polonium they left behind.”
在同一天的听证会上，代表伦敦警察厅(Scotland Yard)的律师理查德·霍尔维尔(Richard Horwell)告诉调查者，“科学证据表明，卢戈沃伊和科夫通有罪，”他们“对这些科学证据、以及他们留下的钋迹没有可信的解释”。