LONDON – The British government announced a plan on Tuesday that was intended to make it easier for Chinese banks to do business in London as part of an expanded effort to make the city a global center for investing and trading China’s currency.
伦敦——英国政府周二公布了一项旨在让中资银行更易于在伦敦开展业务的计划，此举是英国政府推动伦敦成为人民币全球投资和交易中心的更大力度努力的一部分。
On a five-day trade mission to China, Britain’s chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, said the country’s Prudential Regulation Authority would shortly begin discussions to allow Chinese banks to open wholesale branches, rather than subsidiaries, for this first time in Britain.
正在中国进行五天商务访问的英国财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)说，英国审慎监管局(Prudential Regulation Authority)将很快启动相关讨论，目的是首次允许中资银行在英国开设批发业务分行，而不是子公司。
By opening branches, a Chinese bank will be able to use its parent company’s capital to meet British rules for reserves and other financial requirements. British officials hope it will spur Chinese investment here.
设立分行之后，中资银行将能够利用母公司的资本来满足英国对储备的规定以及其他财务要求。英国官员希望这将能刺激中国在英国的投资。
The five largest banks in China already have subsidiaries in Britain.
中国五大银行均已在英国设有子公司。
Mr. Osborne also announced that investors in London would now be able to apply for a license to invest directly in Chinese shares and bonds in the Chinese currency, the renminbi. It will be the first Western country to have such an agreement, the British government said.
奥斯本还宣布，伦敦的投资者现在可申请直接投资人民币计价中国股票和债券的牌照。英国政府说，英国将是第一个订立此类协议的西方国家。
In the past, investors had to go through a counterparty in Hong Kong to invest in Chinese stocks and bonds, which could carry a higher cost. The initial quota for London trades will be set at 80 billion renminbi ($13.1 billion).
过去，英国投资者要经过一个在香港的交易对手方，才能投资于中国股票和债券，这样做成本较高。初期伦敦交易的配额将是800亿元人民币。
“Today we agreed the next big step in making London – already the global center for finance – a major global center for trading and now investing the Chinese currency too,” Mr. Osborne said. “More trade and more investment, means more business and more jobs for Britain.”
奥斯本说，“今天我们就接下来的一大步达成协议，目的是把已经是国际金融中心的伦敦，打造成人民币交易的主要全球中心，现在还能进行人民币投资。更多交易和更多投资，这一切意味着英国拥有更多的商业和就业。”
Vice Premier Ma Kai, who was China’s counterpart to Mr. Osborne in the economic talks in Beijing on Tuesday, told him that China wanted to “deepen cooperation in the financial sphere and enhance coordination in major international financial matters,” the China News Service reported.
据中国新闻网报道，负责与奥斯本进行财金对话的中国国务院副总理马凯周二在北京对他说，中国希望“深化金融领域合作，加强重大国际经济金融事务的协调。”
Prior agreements between the countries paved the way for London to become a Western hub for trading of the renminbi.
中英两国之前签订的协议，为伦敦成为西方的人民币交易中心铺平了道路。
Britain now accounts for 62 percent of global renminbi trading outside of China and Hong Kong and 28 percent of all international renminbi payments, according to the British government.
根据英国政府数据，目前英国在中国和香港以外的全球人民币交易中占62%，在使用人民币进行的国际支付中占28%。