LONDON — A member of Parliament was gunned down outside a library in northern England as she was wrapping up a meeting with constituents on Thursday afternoon, a rare act of political violence in a nation that strictly regulates firearms.
伦敦——周四下午，在英格兰北部的一个图书馆外，一名下院议员遭到枪杀，当时她和选民的会面即将结束。英国对枪支的监管很严格，发生这样的政治暴力事件实属罕见。
The lawmaker, Jo Cox, 41, who was considered a rising star in the opposition Labour Party and was a passionate advocate for victims of the civil war in Syria, was shot in Birstall, a town about six miles southwest of the city of Leeds. A 77-year-old man was injured in the attack.
这位议员名叫乔·考克斯(Jo Cox)，现年41岁，是叙利亚内战受害者的热心支持者，被视为反对党工党(Labour Party)内的一颗冉冉升起的新星。枪击案发生在利兹市西南方向大约六英里外的伯斯托尔镇。还有一名77岁的男子在这起事件中受伤。
A 52-year-old man was arrested in Cox’s killing, and police said they were not looking for any other suspects. No motive has been established, officials said.
一名52岁的男性在考克斯枪杀案中被抓获。警方表示，他们并未搜寻任何其他嫌疑人。官方称，作案动机目前还未确定。
The killing occurred one week before a referendum on whether Britain should leave the European Union, and both sides immediately halted campaigning out of respect for Cox.
一周后英国就要举行公投，决定是否退出欧盟。出于对考克斯的尊重，（留欧和退欧阵营）双方立即停止了拉票活动。
“The death of Jo Cox is a tragedy,” Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain wrote on Twitter, describing Cox as “a committed and caring MP” and “a great star.” He said, “It’s right that we’re suspending campaigning activity in this referendum.”
“乔·考克斯之死是一起悲剧，”英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)在Twitter上写道。他称考克斯是“一位坚定、有爱心的议员”，是“出色的明星”，还说“暂停公投拉票活动是正确的做法”。
Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour Party, wrote on Twitter: “The whole of the Labour family, and indeed the whole country, is in shock and grief at the horrific murder of Jo Cox.”
工党党魁杰里米·科尔宾(Jeremy Corbyn)在Twitter上写道：“工党大家庭，乃至整个国家，都为乔·考克斯遭到残忍谋杀感到震惊和悲痛。”
Cox, like most other Labour politicians, supported Britain’s continued membership in the European Union. In her maiden speech in Parliament last year, she spoke of the diversity of her district, which includes Irish Catholics and Indian Muslims.
像工党的大多数其他政坛人士一样，考克斯支持英国留在欧盟。去年她首次在国会发表演说，谈到她所在选区的多样性，那里同时住着爱尔兰天主教徒和印度穆斯林。
“We are far more united and have far more in common than that which divides us,” she said.
“我们的团结共通之处，要远远超过分裂我们的因素，”她说。
Last week, she wrote on Twitter: “Immigration is a legitimate concern, but it’s not a good reason to leave the EU.” On Wednesday, her husband, Brendan Cox, took part in a joust between prominent campaigners from both sides, an event nicknamed the Battle of the Thames.
上周，她在Twitter上发帖：“对移民问题的关切是正当的，但这并不是离开欧盟的一个好理由。”周三，她丈夫布伦丹·考克斯(Brendan Cox)参加了一项被戏称为“泰晤士河战役”(Battle of the Thames)的船队竞技活动，双方的著名倡导人士到场进行了较量。
Cox issued a statement on Thursday evening, saying: “Hate doesn’t have a creed, race or religion, it is poisonous.”
布伦丹·考克斯周四晚上发表声明，说：“仇恨是没有信仰、种族或宗教的，它是流毒。”