LONDON — Lo, and it came to pass at last on Saturday morning, unto Kate, who was late, a child was born — a baby girl, who will be fourth in line to the British throne.
伦敦——看哪，产期推后的凯特王妃(Kate)终于在周六早晨诞下一名女婴，她将成为英国王室第四顺位继承人。
There was much rejoicing in the land, especially among the many who had placed their bets on her having a girl, while others await a further windfall, if they guess right on what name will be chosen.
民众欣喜若狂，特别是那些下了赌注，赌凯特会生女儿的人。还有一些人在等着进一步获利，如果他们猜对女婴的名字，还会赢更多钱。
Kate, the Duchess of Cambridge, “was safely delivered of a daughter” at 8:34 a.m. London time, Kensington Palace announced. The birth came less than three hours after she was admitted to the hospital where in July 2013 she gave birth to Prince George, so according to the British media, she will get a 10 percent “loyalty discount” for her expensive hospital suite.
肯辛顿宫(Kensington Palace)宣布，剑桥公爵夫人凯特于伦敦时间上午8点34分“顺利产下一名女婴”。她在进入医院不到三个小时后就产下了女婴，凯特曾于2013年7月在这家医院生下了儿子乔治王子(Prince George)，因此英国媒体称，凯特入住昂贵的医院套房会得到10%的“忠实折扣”。
The baby weighs 8 pounds 3 ounces, the palace said, adding that mother and daughter were both doing well, and that father William, the Duke of Cambridge, was present for the birth of the child, who will be known as the Princess of Cambridge.
肯辛顿宫称，女婴重8磅3盎司（约合3.7公斤），母女平安，并表示孩子出生时，父亲剑桥公爵威廉(William)在场。他们的女儿将被称为剑桥公主(Princess of Cambridge)。
Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, had made it clear he was hoping for a granddaughter, and the child is the fifth great-grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II. The statement said senior royals had been informed and were “delighted with the news.”
英国王储查尔斯王子(Prince Charles)曾明确表示，他希望有一个孙女，这个新生儿是女王伊丽莎白二世(Queen Elizabeth II)的第五个曾孙辈后代。声明称，王室长者已知晓此事，他们“对这个消息感到高兴”。
The impending birth has been a boon for Britain’s bookmakers, who say they received thousands of bets on the newborn’s gender and possible name. Even after Saturday’s announcement, bets were still being placed on a name and other characteristics.
孩子即将降生，对英国的博彩公司是一个利好。这些公司表示，对于这个新生儿的性别和名字，已经收到了数十万英镑的赌注。即使在周六的声明发表后，人们还在对婴儿的名字和其他特征押注。
Alice and Charlotte are the clear favorites, followed by Elizabeth, Victoria and Diana — all names with royal heritage.
爱丽丝(Alice)和夏洛特(Charlotte)明显是最受欢迎的选择，随后是伊丽莎白(Elizabeth)、维多利亚(Victoria)和戴安娜(Diana)——这些名字在王室历史上都有过同名人物。
In 2013, the announcement of George’s name came two days after his birth.
2013年，乔治的名字是他出生两天后宣布的。
According to Ladbrooke’s, a bookmaker, bookies have paid out £250,000, or about $380,000, on the baby’s gender. But they are also busy with bets on Thursday’s British elections, among the tightest in memory. The birth is likely to draw attention away from the politicians, which may come as a relief in what has been a long campaign.
博彩公司立博(Ladbrooke’s)表示，彩民一共在新生儿的性别上押了25万英镑，即38万美元（约合235万元人民币）。不过，彩民也在忙着赌周四的英国选举，此次选举堪称记忆中最激烈的竞选之一。新生儿的到来很可能会转移人们对政治人物的关注，在漫长的竞选期间，王妃产子可以让人舒缓一下情绪。