BRUSSELS — With Britain’s prime minister omitted for the first time, European Union leaders at a summit meeting wrestled on Wednesday with an existential question: how to salvage a venture that has provided peace and relative prosperity to 500 million people but has lost public support.
布鲁塞尔——在英国首相首次缺席的情况下，欧盟领导人周三在首脑会议上努力应对一个关乎该组织存续的问题：如何挽救这一给5亿人带来和平与相对繁荣，但却在失去公众支持的尝试。
“We all need to wake up and smell the coffee,” President Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania said at the start of private talks in Brussels on how to relaunch the EU after the shock of Britain’s vote last week to leave.
“我们都要清醒一点，看清问题的本质，”立陶宛总统达利娅·格里包斯凯特(Dalia Grybauskaite)在于布鲁塞尔举行的私下会谈开始时说道。这次会谈的主题是在经历了上周英国公投脱欧的冲击之后，如何重启欧盟。
In the absence of Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, who was already back in London after attending an initial day of talks, the group’s remaining 27 leaders all agreed that the EU needs to change the way it works if it is to curb a rising tide of populism driven in large part by hostility toward Brussels.
在英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)——参加完第一天的会谈之后已经返回伦敦——缺席的情况下，欧盟剩下的27国领导人一致同意，如果要遏制正在兴起的民粹主义风潮，欧盟需要改变其运作方式。这股风潮在很大程度上由对布鲁塞尔的敌意驱动。
Presenting the leaders with his own analysis of why 52 percent of Britons had voted to withdraw from the EU, Cameron, at a somber dinner late Tuesday, said the main reason was immigration. Polls in other countries show deep opposition to an influx of foreigners.
周二晚间，卡梅伦在气氛沉重的晚宴上向欧盟领导人讲述了他自己对为什么52%的英国人投票选择英国退出欧盟的分析，表示主要原因在于移民。其他一些国家的民意调查也显示出民众对大批外国人涌入的强烈反对。
But reducing immigration, or at least the right of EU citizens to move wherever they want in the bloc, is currently impossible, because the free movement of citizens is an inviolable principle of the whole European project.
但减少移民目前是不可能的，至少不太可能削弱欧盟居民在欧盟范围内自由选择去处的权利，因为居民自由流动是这整个欧洲计划不容违背的一项原则。
At the same time, slowing the flow of migrants from outside Europe is something that officials in Brussels consider a notable success. It took a long time and many meetings, but, under a controversial deal with Turkey, last year’s flood of nearly a million people into Europe through Greek islands has slowed to a trickle.
与此同时，布鲁塞尔的官员们认为自身在减缓欧洲以外移民的涌入速度方面取得了显著的成绩。此事花了很长时间，举行了许多会议，不过在与土耳其达成的一项有争议的协议之下，去年近100万人通过希腊的岛屿涌入欧洲的移民潮已经减弱为涓涓细流。
Migrants are still arriving in Europe after hazardous journeys across the Mediterranean from North Africa, but they are far fewer than the number who arrived last year through Greece — the people used by campaigners in Britain to rally opposition to the EU.
依然有移民从北非穿越地中海，经过艰险的旅程抵达欧洲，但他们的人数比去年通过希腊涌入的要少得多。英国的活动人士就是利用后者集结了对欧盟的反对情绪。
With no easy fixes to Europe’s public image and no consensus on what a reformed union might look like, the principal agreement reached by leaders on Wednesday was familiar: to hold another meeting in Bratislava, Slovakia, in September.
没有找到修复欧洲公众形象的简单办法，无法就欧盟实施什么样的改革达成一致，欧盟领导人在周三形成的原则协议并不陌生：9月在斯洛伐克的布拉迪斯拉发举行另一场会议。
“The response to this new challenge for Europe will take time to find,” Frans Timmermans, a former foreign minister of the Netherlands and the first vice president of the union’s executive arm, the European Commission, cautioned earlier this week. “We must be brutally honest with ourselves as we debate the path forward. Today, there are more questions than answers.”
“为欧洲面临的这一新挑战找到解决方案是需要时间的，”荷兰前外交大臣、欧盟执行机构欧盟委员会(European Commission)第一副主席弗朗斯·蒂莫曼斯(Frans Timmermans)本周早些时候发出警告。“在就前方的道路展开讨论时，我们必须极为诚实地面对自己。如今的状况是，我们面临的问题比答案更多。”
François Lafond, a professor of European integration at Sciences Po, the Paris university, said the task of finding answers was so big that it should be entrusted to a special convention of experts and officials that would be given at least six months to create a new approach. Otherwise, “the populists will continue to grow,” he said. “We have to give a clear signal of change.”
在法国学府巴黎政治学院(Sciences Po)研究欧洲一体化的教授弗朗索瓦·拉丰(François Lafond)表示，找到答案的任务非常艰巨，需要托付给由专家与官员组成的特别会议，给他们至少六个月时间来创建一种新的方式。否则，“民粹主义的势头将会继续增长，”他说。“我们必须发出明确的变革信号。”
A critical issue, Lafond said, is which functions should be returned to individual nations and which should fall within the powers of the union. Arguments over this division of labor have dogged the so-called European project since it began more than six decades ago in response to the horrors of World War II, and have caused numerous crises.
拉丰表示，关键的议题是哪些权利应该返还给各个成员国，哪些应该留给欧盟掌握。自这个“欧洲计划”在60多年前作为应对二战可怕经历的措施产生之后，这种分工带来的争论就一直困扰着它，导致了无数的危机。
The crisis unleashed by the British vote, however, offers no bureaucratic fix, as it involves what have long been the European project’s most vulnerable points: its remoteness from ordinary people and lack of democratic legitimacy. The European Parliament, elected by popular vote since 1979, was meant to fill this gap. But, given no power to actually introduce legislation, it is mostly seen as a noisy, expensive forum that merely approves measures proposed by the Commission.
然而，由英国公投引发的危机，却没有体制上的解决办法，因为它涉及欧盟长久以来最薄弱的环节：远离普通大众，缺乏民主正当性。自1979年以来由普选产生的欧洲议会(European Parliament)意在弥补这种缺陷。但因为没有真正的立法权，该机构往往被看作一个吵闹又费钱的论坛，只是负责通过由欧盟委员会提出的法案。
Perhaps the most significant role played by the European Parliament has been to provide a megaphone for some of the union’s most impassioned enemies, notably politicians from the U.K. Independence Party, or UKIP. The party — whose leader, Nigel Farage, and 23 followers hold seats in the assembly — campaigned fervently for Britain’s exit from the EU.
欧洲议会起到的最重要的作用，或许是为欧盟最激烈的一些反对者提供一个扩音器，尤其是来自英国独立党(U.K. Independence Party)的政客。独立党领袖奈杰尔·法拉吉(Nigel Farage)及23名追随者在欧洲议会占有席位。该党此前异常积极地为英国脱欧造势。
They and allies like former Mayor Boris Johnson of London call the EU a meddling and alien force, a message that has resounded elsewhere, particularly France. Marine Le Pen, the leader of France’s right-wing National Front party, wants the nation to hold its own referendum.
他们和伦敦前市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)等盟友称欧盟是一股胡乱干预的外来势力。这种论调在其他地方同样存在，尤其是法国。法国右翼政党国民阵线(National Front)领导人马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)想让本国也举行公投。
France’s deeply unpopular Socialist president, François Hollande, who is struggling to rescue his own political future as well as Europe’s, declared on Wednesday that drastic change was needed. “Keeping the status quo would be the worst,” he said, “because populists would continue to challenge Europe.”
法国极不受欢迎的社会党总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)在竭力拯救自己与欧洲的政治前途。他在周三宣布，需要做出巨大的变革。“保持现状将是最糟糕的选择，”他说，“因为民粹主义者将持续挑战欧洲。”
But many of the things Hollande and like-minded European politicians want to see, such as more pooling of resources from shared European funds — are anathema to Germany, the dominant power on the Continent, which wants to enforce fiscal prudence but resists moving toward a federal state.
不过，奥朗德及那些与他想法一致的欧洲政界人士想要看到的东西，比如通过共享的欧洲基金更大程度地集中资源，恰恰是德国深恶痛绝的。后者是欧洲占主导地位的大国，想要执行谨慎的财务政策，但反对向联邦制发展。
Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany shut the door on any overhaul involving the revision of European treaties, a laborious process that requires referendums and has often stoked anti-European sentiment.
周三接受记者采访时，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)否决了对欧盟条约进行大幅修改的任何可能。这一过程困难重重，需要进行公投，往往会激起反欧情绪。