A court filing in a civil case in Florida last week included new allegations against Jeffrey E. Epstein, a businessman who pleaded guilty to soliciting prostitution, and two other high-profile men: a member of the British Royal family and an American lawyer.
上周，佛罗里达州一起民事案件的法庭文件中，对商人杰弗里·E·爱泼斯坦(Jeffrey E. Epstein)及另外两名备受瞩目的人物提出了新的指控，其中一人是英国皇室成员，另一人则是美国律师。爱泼斯坦已承认招妓罪名。
The motion filed in United States District Court in the Southern District of Florida alleges that Mr. Epstein forced a teenage girl to have sexual relations with several men, including Prince Andrew, Queen Elizabeth’s second son, and Alan M. Dershowitz, a professor emeritus at Harvard Law School. Both men have denied the allegations.
提交给佛罗里达州南区联邦地区法院的动议声称，爱泼斯坦曾强迫一名未成年少女与数名男子发生性关系，其中包括伊丽莎白女王(Queen Elizabeth)的次子安德鲁王子(Prince Andrew)和哈佛法学院(Harvard Law School)的荣休教授艾伦·M·德肖维茨(Alan M. Dershowitz)。两人都否认了相关指控。
The motion claimed that the woman, who was not identified in court documents, had sexual relations as a minor with Prince Andrew in London, New York and on Mr. Epstein’s private island in the U.S. Virgin Islands. Mr. Epstein told the woman to give the prince “whatever he demanded” and “report back to him on the details,” the motion said.
动议声称，这名女子在未成年时，曾在伦敦、纽约和爱泼斯坦在美属维尔京群岛的私人岛屿与安德鲁王子发生性关系。法庭文件并未指明该名女子的身份。动议称，爱泼斯坦告诉这名女子，要满足王子的“一切要求”，并“向他汇报细节”。
Buckingham Palace took the unusual step of issuing a statement to rebut the accusations.
白金汉宫罕见地发表了一项声明，对这些指控进行了反驳。
“This relates to longstanding and ongoing civil proceedings in the United States, to which The Duke of York is not a party,” a palace spokesman said in a statement, using the prince’s title. “As such we would not comment on the detail. However, for the avoidance of doubt, any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is categorically untrue.”
“此事与美国旷日持久且正在进行的民事诉讼有关，而约克公爵(Duke of York)并未参与其中，”一名白金汉宫发言人在声明中称。约克公爵是安德鲁王子的封号。“因此，我们不会对细节置评。然而，为了澄清疑虑，我们需要阐明：任何与未成年人发生不当行为的指控都绝不属实。”
The motion was filed as part of a civil case involving Mr. Epstein, who was sentenced to 18 months in prison in 2008. The lawyers for two alleged victims have argued that the rights of the women were violated during the negotiation of Mr. Epstein’s plea deal. The motion requests to add two more alleged victims to the case, including the woman, identified as “Jane Doe No. 3,” who said she had sexual relations with Prince Andrew and Mr. Dershowitz when she was underage.
这份动议是与爱泼斯坦相关的一起民事诉讼的部分内容。2008年，爱泼斯坦被判刑18个月。两名声称受害的人士的辩护律师称，爱泼斯坦认罪协议的谈判过程侵犯了这些女性的权利。该动议要求在此案中增加另外两名声称的受害者，其中包括称作“无名氏三号”(Jane Doe No. 3)的女子。此人表示，她在未成年时，曾与安德鲁王子和德肖维茨发生过性关系。
On Saturday, Mr. Dershowitz said he “categorically and unequivocally” denied all of the allegations. He said he would file disbarment proceedings against the lawyers who filed the motion, Bradley J. Edwards, a lawyer in Florida, and Paul G. Cassell, a former federal judge and a law professor at the University of Utah.
德肖维茨周六表示，他“直截了当且明确无误地”否认了所有指控。他表示，他会申请将提起这项动议的律师剥夺从业资格，他们是佛罗里达州律师布拉德利·J·爱德华兹(Bradley J. Edwards)和前联邦法官、犹他大学(University of Utah)法学教授保罗·G·卡斯尔(Paul G. Cassell)。
“They are lying deliberately, and I will not stop until they’re disbarred,” Mr. Dershowitz said in a phone interview.
德肖维茨在接受电话采访时说，“他们故意说谎，我不会善罢甘休，直到他们被取消律师资格。”
Mr. Dershowitz, who served on Mr. Epstein’s legal team and is perhaps best known for representing O. J. Simpson, said he would also file an affidavit denying the claims.
德肖维茨曾是爱泼斯坦律师团的一员，最为人熟知的事迹或许是担任O·J·辛普森(O. J. Simpson)的代理律师。德肖维茨表示，他也会提交书面陈述，否认指控。
Mr. Cassell said in a statement on Saturday that the lawyers carefully investigated all of the allegations in their pleadings before presenting them. He said the lawyers would consider any sworn testimony or documentary evidence provided by Mr. Dershowitz.
卡斯尔周六发表声明称，律师们在受理该案之前对诉状提到的指控仔细地进行了调查。他表示，律师们会研究德肖维茨提供的宣誓证词或书面证据。
Mr. Cassell included a statement from “Jane Doe No. 3,” saying that she was an innocent victim and was now “being unjustly victimized again.” “I’m not going to be bullied back into silence,” she said in the statement.
卡斯尔还公布了“无名氏三号”的声明，其中称她是无辜的受害者，现在“再次受到了不公的迫害”。她的声明中表示，“面对欺凌，我也不会甘于回归沉默。”
In 2011, Prince Andrew resigned as an ambassador for British businesses abroad after a series of embarrassing revelations, including his friendship with Mr. Epstein.
2011年，在一系列令人尴尬的丑闻——包括他与爱泼斯坦的关系——曝光后，安德鲁王子不再担任英国国际贸易代表。
A New York money manager with several billionaire clients, Mr. Epstein, 61, had owned a home in Palm Beach, Fla. His listing on Florida’s sexual offenders website said he now lived in St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands.
61岁的爱泼斯坦是纽约的一名基金经理，他的客户中包括几名亿万富翁。爱泼斯坦在佛罗里达州棕榈滩拥有一处宅邸。佛罗里达州性犯罪者网站上的记录显示，他现在居住在维尔京群岛的圣托马斯岛。