Ronnie Biggs, a carpenter and petty crook who became an international celebrity for his role in one of Britain’s most famous crimes, the Great Train Robbery of 1963, and for the decades he spent afterward eluding a worldwide manhunt by Scotland Yard, died on Wednesday in London, according to his publicists. He was 84.
龙尼·比格斯(Ronnie Biggs)于周三在伦敦去世，享年84岁，他的宣传代理人公布了这一消息。比格斯生前曾是一名木匠、窃贼，因参与1963年的火车大劫案(Great Train Robbery)——英国历史上最著名的刑事案件之一——而名扬世界。同样引起世人关注的，还有他在之后的几十年一次次逃过苏格兰场（Scotland Yard，苏格兰警察局——编注）的全球追踪。
No cause of death was given.
他的死因未被公布。
“Sadly we lost Ron during the night. As always, his timing was perfect to the end. Keep him and his family in your thoughts,” his publicists announced in a Twitter feed.
“今夜，我们痛失罗恩。一如既往，他对时机的选择总是无懈可击。记住他和他的家人吧。”他的宣传人在一条Twitter发帖中宣布。
Imprisoned in England since he returned there voluntarily in 2001, Mr. Biggs was granted compassionate release for health reasons in August 2009 by Jack Straw, the British justice secretary at the time.
比格斯在2001年自愿返回英国，自此被关押。2009年8月，时任英国司法大臣的杰克·斯特劳(Jack Straw)准许比格斯因健康原因保外就医。
The decision was a highly public reversal by Mr. Straw, who earlier had denied Mr. Biggs’s application, saying he had shown no remorse for the crime, in which 15 men robbed a Glasgow-to-London mail train of more than $7 million in bank notes. The train’s driver was seriously injured.
斯特劳的决定公开推翻了他早先的立场，引起了许多关注。他曾说比格斯对自己的罪行没有一丝悔意，拒绝了比格斯保外就医的申请。比格斯等15人劫持了一辆从格拉斯哥开往伦敦的邮政列车，盗走了超过700万美元的现钞。火车司机则受了重伤。
Mr. Biggs, who had had several strokes and other health problems in recent years, had been serving what remained of his 30-year sentence — and a great deal of it did — in Norwich Prison, in eastern England.
近年出现过几次中风和其他健康问题的比格斯在去世前曾在英格兰东部的诺里奇监狱服刑，不过，他只完成了自己30年刑期中的一小部分。
At the time of his death. the Press Association news agency reported, Mr. Biggs had been living at a nursing home in the East Barnet neighborhood of north London after suffering several strokes. His last public appearance was in March, when he attended the funeral of Bruce Reynolds, a fellow train robber. Mr. Biggs’s enduring reputation stemmed not so much from the heist itself as from what happened afterward. Tried and convicted, he escaped from prison and became the subject of an international manhunt; spent the next 36 years as a fugitive, much of that time living openly in Rio de Janeiro in defiance of the British authorities; and enjoyed almost preternatural luck in thwarting repeated attempts to bring him to justice, including being kidnapped and spirited out of Brazil by yacht.
据英国新闻机构联合通讯社(Press Association)报道，在经历了几次中风后，比格斯住在伦敦北部东巴尼特街区的一家养老院里，直至死亡。他最后一次公开露面是今年3月参加同案犯布鲁斯·雷诺兹(Bruce Reynolds)的葬礼。比格斯之所以被人们长久地记住，更多是因为劫案发生后的经历，而非劫案本身。在受审并被定罪后，他从狱中逃出，成了国际通缉的目标；接下来的36年里，他过着逃亡生活，其中的许多时间，他堂而皇之地生活在里约热内卢，公然藐视英国当局；他的运气好得近乎不可思议，让英国当局一次次尝试将他绳之以法的行动落空，这其中还包括被绑架，以及被游艇偷运出巴西。
The fact that the robbery happened to take place on Mr. Biggs’s birthday also did not hurt.
劫案恰巧发生在比格斯生日的那一天，这更让人们对他多了几分兴趣。
Ronald Arthur Biggs was born on Aug. 8, 1929, in the south London borough of Lambeth. By his own account, his was a close, warm household.
1929年8月8日，罗纳德·阿瑟·比格斯(Ronald Arthur Biggs)出生在伦敦南部的兰贝斯区。据他自己的描述，他的家庭和睦而温馨。
“My mother always made sure that my cap was square on my head and my socks were pulled up,” Mr. Biggs told Smithsonian magazine in 1980.
比格斯在1980年对《史密森尼》(Smithsonian)杂志说，“我的母亲总是要确保，我的帽子戴得不偏不倚，我的袜子拉得笔直”。
During the Blitz in London, Ronnie was evacuated to Cornwall, where he lived with a man he described afterward as a harsh disciplinarian. He later rejoined his family, but after his mother’s death in 1943, Ronnie embarked on a series of petty crimes. With time out for a stint in the Royal Air Force, he was in and out of jail till his early 30s.
在伦敦大轰炸(Blitz)期间，龙尼被疏散到了康沃尔，他在那里和一个男人住在一起，他后来说此人极其严格。之后他和家人团聚，不过在母亲于1943年去世后，他就开始参与一些小偷小摸。一直到30岁出头，比格斯多次入狱，中间还曾在英国皇家空军(Royal Air Force)服役。
In 1960, Mr. Biggs married Charmian Powell, a schoolmaster’s daughter he had met on a train. They had two sons, and for the next few years, by his later accounts, Mr. Biggs settled into a happy routine as a husband and father, working as a carpenter.
1960年，比格斯和他在火车上邂逅的女子、一位校长的女儿夏米安·鲍威尔(Charmian Powell)结了婚。之后，他们有了两个儿子。根据比格斯后来的描述，在接下来的几年里，他作木匠谋生，过上了循规蹈矩的为人夫、为人父的幸福生活。
It was hard to make ends meet. In 1963, Mr. Biggs approached Mr. Reynolds, a man he had known in jail, to request a small loan. But Mr. Reynolds had other plans, involving a very unusual Royal Mail train. Running by night and appearing on no printed schedule, it transported vast quantities of cash between provincial bank branches and central banks in London. The money was in the second of 12 cars.
要养家糊口很难。1963年，比格斯去找他在监狱里认识的雷诺兹，求他借一小笔钱。可是雷诺兹却有其他的计划，涉及到一趟极不寻常的皇家邮政列车。这趟列车在夜间运行，出版的列车时刻表中并无记载，它肩负着在伦敦的中央银行和各地方支行之间运送大量现金的任务。这些钱就放在12节车厢中的第二节。
The gang Mr. Reynolds assembled included men with intimate knowledge of railroad timetables, signals and switches. Mr. Biggs recruited a retired engineer to drive the train.
雷诺兹召集起的这伙人里，有对铁路时刻表、信号、道岔十分熟悉的。比格斯甚至还找到了一名退休的火车司机来驾驶火车。
After midnight on Aug. 8, 1963, the gang turned a signal light along the route to red. The train ground to a halt in the Buckinghamshire countryside at 3:15 a.m. When the engineer, Jack Mills, stepped out of the cab, a waiting gang member bludgeoned him with an iron bar.
1963年8月8日零时过后，这伙人把格拉斯哥到伦敦线路上的一个信号灯转为红色。凌晨3:15，火车在白金汉郡郊外某处缓缓停下来。当司机杰克·米尔斯(Jack Mills)走出驾驶室时，被等在外面的一名劫匪用铁棍击中。
The gang uncoupled the last 10 cars. Mr. Biggs’s engineer was brought on board but was unable to release the train’s brake. Mr. Mills, bleeding badly, was forced back into the cab and ordered to drive the head cars to a secluded spot down the line. There, the robbers stormed the second car, subdued its crew and unloaded 120 mailbags into waiting vehicles.
这伙人分离了火车的最后10节车厢。比格斯的司机上了车，但没法松开刹车。他们将当时还在大量出血的米尔斯押回到驾驶室，让他按他们的要求把前几节车厢向南开到了一个较为隐蔽的地点。在那儿，匪徒们洗劫了第二节车厢，控制住乘务人员，把120个邮包卸到了等候在那儿的车里。
The whole thing was over in about 15 minutes. As was widely reported, Mr. Biggs spent most of that time sitting in a Land Rover near the railway embankment, his failed engineer beside him.
整个过程只持续了约15分钟。大量的报道称，比格斯在这期间基本都坐在路堤附近的一辆路虎车里，身旁坐着那位失职的火车司机。
The bank notes in the bags came to £2.6 million, or about $7.3 million — roughly $70 million today. Most of the money has never been found. Mr. Mills never fully recovered from his injuries and was unable to work again. He died in 1970.
邮包里的现金共计260万英镑，约为当时的730万美元，大概相当于现在的7000万美元（约合4.25亿元人民币）。其中多数的钱都没有追回。米尔斯受伤之后一直没能完全恢复，从此再也没能工作。他于1970年去世。
Within a month, Scotland Yard had caught most of the gang, including Mr. Biggs. Convicted in April 1964, he was sent to Wandsworth Prison in London.
一个月内，苏格兰场抓住了这一团伙中的多数成员，包括比格斯。1964年4月，比格斯被定罪，送到了伦敦的旺兹沃思监狱。
In July 1965, after serving 15 months, Mr. Biggs scaled the prison wall with a rope ladder and took off in a waiting furniture van. He made his way to the European continent, where he had plastic surgery, and eventually to Australia, where his wife and children joined him. (The couple’s third son was born there.)
1965年7月，服刑15个月以后，比格斯用一个绳梯爬上监狱的高墙，乘一辆等候在外的家具搬运车逃走。他去了欧洲大陆，在那儿做了整容，最后到了澳大利亚，与妻子和孩子在那里会和。（他们的第三个儿子也在那里出生。）
In 1969, as Scotland Yard began to close in, he fled again. By 1970, Mr. Biggs had made his way to Brazil, which then had no extradition treaty with Britain. His marriage to Ms. Powell, who remained in Australia with the children, ended in divorce.
1969年，就在苏格兰场开始接近他时，他再次逃跑。到1970年，比格斯去了那时还未和英国签订引渡协议的巴西。鲍威尔和孩子们留在了澳大利亚，他们最终离了婚。
Mr. Biggs lived covertly in Rio until 1974, when Detective Chief Superintendent Jack Slipper of Scotland Yard arrived there. Detective Slipper, who had pursued Mr. Biggs around the world for years, was determined to bring him back to Britain, treaty or no treaty.
比格斯偷偷摸摸地在里约热内卢生活，一直到1974年苏格兰场总警司杰克·斯里普(Jack Slipper)追到那里。斯里普总警司多年来在世界各地追踪比格斯，一心要把他带回英国，不管有没有协议。
Happily for Mr. Biggs, his Brazilian girlfriend was pregnant: under Brazilian law, no parent of a Brazilian child could be deported. Mr. Biggs’s fourth son, Michael, was born a few months later, and the proud papa remained in Rio, living openly, bibulously and sometimes extravagantly under his own name.
但幸运的是，比格斯的巴西女友怀孕了，根据巴西法律，巴西儿童的父母不能被驱逐出境。比格斯的第四个儿子迈克尔(Michael)几个月以后出生，这位骄傲的爸爸留在了里约热内卢生活，也不再躲躲藏藏，他嗜酒成性，有时候甚至高调地使用真名。
In 2001, his health failing, Mr. Biggs returned to Britain for treatment, though he knew it also meant prison. He flew from Brazil on a private jet furnished by The Sun, a British tabloid.
2001年，比格斯的健康状况开始恶化，回到英国接受治疗，虽然他明白这意味着进监狱。他乘坐一架由英国小报《太阳报》(The Sun)提供的私人飞机离开了巴西。
The next year, Mr. Biggs married Michael’s mother, Raimunda Rothen, in Belmarsh Prison, a maximum-security facility.
第二年，比格斯在甲级重犯监狱贝尔马什监狱迎娶了迈克尔的母亲赖蒙达·罗滕(Raimunda Rothen)。
Mr. Biggs is survived by his wife; their son, Michael and two sons from his first marriage, Chris and Farley.Another son from his first marriage, Nicky, died at 10 in a car crash in Australia.
比格斯的妻子，他们的儿子迈克尔，以及第一段婚姻留下的两个儿子克里斯(Chris)和法利(Farley)依然健在。他第一次婚姻中的另一个儿子尼基(Nicky)10岁时在澳大利亚死于车祸。
Detective Slipper, whose white whale Mr. Biggs never ceased to be, died in 2005.
一直将比格斯视为终极对手的斯里普总警司于2005年去世。
Perhaps Mr. Biggs’s most enduring legacy is his own persona. “People say, ‘Oh, Ron, you must really want a pardon more than anything,’ ” he told People magazine in 1988. “But I say, ‘What? Stop being Ronnie Biggs?'”
也许比格斯留给这个世界最恒久的馈赠就是他在人生中扮演的角色。“人们说，‘罗恩，你一定最想得到赦免,’”1988年他告诉《人物》(People)杂志。“但我说，‘什么？不再作龙尼 ·比格斯了吗？’”