For more than two centuries, Gieves & Hawkes at No. 1 Savile Row in London has been creating suits for the men of the British royal family — including the dark navy one that Prince William wore 2010 to announce his engagement to Kate Middleton.
两个多世纪以来，伦敦萨维尔街1号的吉凡克斯(Gieves & Hawkes)一直为英国皇家的男士们制作西服，包括威廉王子2010年宣布与凯特·米德尔顿(Kate Middleton)订婚时穿的那件深海军蓝西服。
Yet today, in the upscale IFC Mall in Hong Kong, it is common to see a customer from mainland China trying on a double-breasted blazer similar to one owned by the prince and happily paying 12,000 Hong Kong dollars, or $1,550, for it.
但是如今，在香港高档的国际金融中心商场，经常能看到来自中国内地的顾客试穿与王子那件上衣类似的双排扣上衣，然后愉快地花12000港币（约合1550美元）买下衣服。
This quintessential British brand, owned by Trinity Limited of China, now has its largest customer base in China and has been gathering a tailor’s knowledge of these new clients.
这个经典英国品牌归中国的利邦集团(Trinity)所有，如今它最大的客户群在中国，所以开始收集裁缝对这些新客户的了解。
“Trinity secured the license to operate Gieves & Hawkes in China in 2006, and at the time, the U.K.’s retail market was on a downturn,” explained Ray Clacher, the company’s managing director. “By 2011, we had opened more than 100 stores in China, and the market accounted for 75 percent of our business.” Then, in May 2012, Trinity acquired global rights to the brand.
“利邦集团2006年获得了在中国经营吉凡克斯的授权，那时候香港的零售市场十分低迷，”该公司的管理总监雷·克拉切(Ray Clacher)解释说。“到2011年，我们在中国开了100多家店，这个市场占了我们全部业务的75%。”到2012年5月，利邦获得了该品牌的全球经营权。
Gieves & Hawkes has long traded on its history: founded in 1771 and patronized by royalty around the world.
吉凡克斯长久以来都在利用它的悠久历史：该品牌成立于1771年，在世界各地都受到皇室赞助。
“I want to maintain the British aristocratic accent but move the collection in a more international direction,” said Jason Basmajian, former artistic director of the Italian men’s wear house Brioni, who was appointed creative director of Gieves & Hawkes early this year. “Most of what we know today as the English gentleman’s style was born out of equestrian and military dress and uniforms and, as with any heritage style, it can also be overwhelming and overbearing.”
“我想保留它的英国贵族气质，同时使该品牌更国际化，”詹森·贝斯马吉安(Jason Basmajian)说。他以前是意大利男装品牌布里奥尼(Brioni)的艺术总监，今年年初被任命为吉凡克斯的创意总监。“我们今天知道的英国绅士风格大多起源于骑术服和军装，就像任何传统风格那样，它也可能会显得非常强烈和专横。”
“The key is to edit and focus on certain details that can be applied in a relevant way,” the New York native added.
“关键是要改造和关注那些具体细节，用适当方式加以应用，”这位纽约设计师补充说。
Traditionally, the brand’s tailoring has reflected Savile Row standards, producing a firm, robust shape. “We use stiffer shoulders, and the button always sits just above the stomach. It is really a straight-line tailoring,” Mr. Clacher said.
这个品牌的传统裁剪反映了萨维尔街的标准，样式给人的感觉是笔挺，结实。“我们的肩部更挺括，扣子永远位于胃部靠上一点。它真的是直线剪裁，”克拉切说。
But “Asians tend not to like their suits too pinched, so we let out the arm holes, take out the waist and increase the shoulder line,” he explained.
但是“亚洲人不喜欢太紧的西服，所以我们把袖子、腰部和肩部做得稍微宽了一点”，他解释说。
Mr. Basmajian said his inspirations came largely from the company’s extensive records. “We have an archivist at our No. 1 Savile Row store to document and manage the collection,” he said. “I often find interesting pocket, trim, fabrics or construction inspiration in the archives.”
贝斯马吉安说他的灵感主要来自该公司的大量历史资料。“我们的萨维尔1号店里有一个档案保管员，专门负责整理和管理这个品牌的资料，”他说。“我经常能从那些档案中找到有趣的口袋、镶边、面料或者设计灵感。”
A design team in Hong Kong also works on what he described as “balancing and focusing part of the collection for the local market.”
他说，该品牌在香港的设计队伍也致力于“为当地市场设计更均衡的、符合当地人关注重点的服饰”。
As Chinese society is more casual than Europe’s, the brand’s range has been expanded with more sports jackets and deconstructed looks. And the price range has widened, Mr. Clacher said, contributing to the current annual sales of around $100 million.
因为中国人着装比欧洲人休闲，所以该品牌的服装系列增加了更多运动夹克和解构风格的外观。克拉切说，价格范围也扩大了，这对目前约1亿美元的年销售额做出了贡献。
“The average price of a wool jacket was about $500, running upwards to $2,000 for something in cashmere,” he said. “Now, our suits range from $3,500 to $4,000 — to the most expensive, around $10,000, for fine fabrics like Super 200s.”
“一件毛料上衣的平均价格大约是500美元，羊绒上衣的价格会达到2000美元，”他说。“现在，我们的西服价格在3500美元至4000美元之间，最贵的大约是1万美元，采用的是上好的面料，比如Super200s面料。”
Obtaining the best raw materials is not an issue. As a subsidiary of the consumer goods giant Li & Fung, “Trinity has clear advantages in terms of supply chain expertise,” said Mr. Clacher, who went to work for Trinity after it acquired the company and now shuttles among Hong Kong, London and mainland China.
买到最好的面料并不难。克拉切说，作为日用消费品巨头利丰(Li & Fung)集团的子公司，“利邦在供应链方面有明显的优势。”克拉切在利邦购得该公司之后开始为它工作，现在穿梭于香港、伦敦和中国内地之间。
“We can now find the best vendor, leverage on the scale of the business and get the best prices,” he said. “We couldn’t do that before with just 14 stores in the U.K.”
“我们现在能找到最好的卖家，利用我们的生意规模争取最优惠的价格，”他说。“以前只有14家英国店铺时，做不到这一点。”
Trinity, which also owns the British sportswear brand Kent & Curwen and the Italian house Cerruti 1881, now buys for its clothing companies an annual total of more than 100,000 meters, or more than 109,000 yards, of fabric from 67 mills around the world, including Loro Piana. “We are only second to Ermenegildo Zegna in our purchasing power,” Mr. Clacher said.
利邦还拥有英国运动品牌Kent & Curwen和意大利服装公司切瑞蒂(Cerruti 1881)。现在它每年为自己的这些服装公司购买的面料超过10万米（10.9万码），这些面料来自全球67家纱厂，包括Loro Piana。“在购买力上，我们仅次于杰尼亚(Ermenegildo Zegna)，”克拉切说。
But to maintain its roots, 23 percent of the brand’s merchandise is still made in Britain. There are 17 coat makers in the Savile Row atelier, which is where patterns are made each season and where the tailors working in the Hong Kong stores were trained.
但是为了保持它的根基，该品牌23%的产品仍是在英国制作的。萨维尔街的工作室有17名制衣师，每一季的款式都是在这里设计的，香港店铺的裁缝也是在这里接受培训。
In retailing, Hong Kong remains an important gateway market to mainland China for many brands — and the city is where Gieves & Hawkes does its much of its business.
在零售方面，香港仍是很多品牌通往中国内地的重要渠道。吉凡斯克的主要生意也是在这座城市进行的。
Mr. Clacher said the brand had also been doing well in cities like Beijing, Shanghai and Chengdu, but the strongest growth is in northern Chinese cities like Xian, Harbin and Shenyang. “I think it’s the colder climate that makes our suits and coats more popular,” he said.
克拉切说该品牌在北京、上海和成都这样的城市也销售得很好，但是最主要的增长还是在中国北方的一些城市，比如西安、哈尔滨和沈阳。“我想是那里寒冷的气候使得我们的西服和上衣更受欢迎，”他说。
Yet, even with its changing focus, the brand continues to trumpet its royal connections, especially playing on the Chinese fascination with the British royal family and the allure of London.
但是，即使该品牌的重心改变了，它仍宣扬自己与皇家的联系，特别是利用中国人对英国皇室和伦敦魅力的着迷。
The Savile Row store is the model for the brand’s stores throughout China, which have a clublike interiors of mahogany, displays of vintage garments and photographs of the royal princes: Philip, Charles, William and Harry.
该品牌在中国各地的店铺都是仿照萨维尔街的店铺设计的：内部用红木装修，看起来像个俱乐部，展示着古董衫和英国王子们的照片：菲利普、查尔斯、威廉和哈利。
The company is also promoting its invitation to mark the 60th anniversary of Queen Elizabeth’s coronation at a festive exhibition scheduled July 11-14 in the gardens of Buckingham Palace and open only to companies that hold royal warrants.
该公司还宣扬自己受邀参加伊丽莎白女王登基60岁周年庆祝展览，该展览于定于7月11日至14日在白金汉宫的花园举行，仅对拥有英国王室供货许可证的公司开放。
“Keeping the heritage and the DNA of an international luxury brand is key to survival in China, but equally important is the adaptation to the local market,” which Trinity has done, said Pierre Xiao Lu, marketing professor at Fudan University in Shanghai and the co-author of the 2009 book “Luxury China — Marketing Opportunities and Potential.”
“保持国际奢侈品牌的传统和DNA是它在中国生存的关键，但是同样重要的是要适应当地市场，”而利邦就是这样做的，复旦大学营销学教授卢晓说。卢晓是2009年出版的《奢侈中国》(Luxury China — Marketing Opportunities and Potential)一书的联合作者。
“The China market is the most important growth driver for many luxury brands,” Dr. Lu said. “It is not only related to sales but also to investment of image, retailing network building and knowledge acquisition.”
“中国市场是很多奢侈品牌最重要的增长动力，”卢博士说。“它不仅跟销售有关，还跟形象投资、零售网络建设和知识获得有关。”