LONDON — For months, it has seemed that the only conclusive thing about the British electorate is its indecision. One day, opinion polls suggest that the Labour Party, led by Ed Miliband, is edging toward outright victory. The next, new surveys give the Conservative Party of Prime Minister David Cameron, which currently governs in coalition with the Liberal Democrats, a single-digit lead over the main opposition party. Which to believe?
伦敦——数月来，关于英国选民，唯一确凿的事情似乎就是他们的优柔寡断。前一天，民意调查还显示工党领袖埃德·米利班德(Ed Miliband)正在逐步走向最终胜利。第二天，新的调查又表示，现任首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)所在的保守党，即目前与自由民主党(Liberal Democrats)联合执政的党派，暂时以个位数优势领先于主要反对党。你该相信哪一个呢？
Soar above the trees and you will see a wood of electoral uncertainty. The voters are signaling a combination of detachment and ambivalence — scarcely a healthy disposition for a nation once called the “mother of parliaments.”
透过这种现象，你可以看到这次选举中普遍存在的不确定性。选民表现得态度冷淡、心情矛盾——对于一个曾经被称为“议会之母”的国家而言，这不是一种健康状态。
In most general elections, the direction of travel is clear by this point in the cycle. In 1997, for example, there was little doubt that Tony Blair would end the Conservatives’ 18-year grip on government, though the epic scale of his landslide victory surprised most Britons, not least Mr. Blair.
绝大多数大选进行到这个时候，胜负已经大致见了分晓。比如在1997年，托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)终结保守党长达18年的执政基本上已经没有悬念，虽然在他最终取得压倒性胜利的时候，胜负悬殊之大还是令大多数英国人——尤其是布莱尔自己——感到惊讶。
In 2010, it was no less clear that Labour’s time was up. Mr. Cameron could not muster an outright parliamentary majority, and was compelled to join forces with Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader. But few had expected Gordon Brown to remain prime minister, and he was duly ejected from Downing Street.
2010年时的情况也很清楚，工党的好日子到头了。虽然卡梅伦无法在议会获得多数席位，不得不和自由民主党领袖尼克·克莱格(Nick Clegg)联手执政，但几乎没有人觉得戈登·布朗(Gordon Brown)会获得连任，而他也确实离开了唐宁街。
No such sense of trajectory is apparent as the May 7 vote draws near. Mr. Miliband conspicuously lacks the gravitational force of an opposition leader poised for power. But Mr. Cameron does not yet have the countenance of a surefire winner, either.
5月7日的投票日正在临近，参选者的胜负走势仍不明朗。米利班德明显缺乏那种志在掌权的反对派领导人拥有的吸引力。不过，卡梅伦也没有露出势在必得的赢家相。
The Tories have not won a majority in the House of Commons since 1992. Only the most bullish of the prime minister’s circle believe that he is about to do what he failed to achieve five years ago: win an election outright, and form a purely Conservative government.
自1992年以来，保守党还从未在下议院赢得过多数席位。只有最乐观的人才会觉得，卡梅伦将办到他五年前没能办到的事情：令人信服地赢得大选，组建一个完全由保守党掌权的政府。
Neither leader, it must be said, is an inspirational figurehead. Mr. Cameron’s style is laid-back, amiable and pragmatic. If the polls are to be believed, Mr. Miliband has failed utterly to persuade the public that he has the stature, character or range of talents required of a 21st-century premier.
不能不说，这两位领导者都不怎么令人鼓舞。卡梅伦的风格是悠闲、随和、务实的。如果民调可以相信，那么米利班德就完全未能令公众相信，他拥有21世纪的首相所需的气度、性格或才能。
So the incumbent offers “competence,” not “chaos,” while his opponent, channeling President Obama, promises change you can believe in and prosperity for the many, not the few. Warm words, but neither politician has quickened the public pulse.
因此，现任政府承诺的是“办事得力”，而不是带来“混乱”，而其对手学习奥巴马总统，承诺开展一些你可以信任的变化，让多数人而不是少数人富裕兴旺。这些话温暖人心，但他俩都没能让公众振奋起来。
This deficit of charisma has compounded the deeper structural problem of disconnection between the political class and the electorate. The conviction that there is a “Westminster bubble,” hovering above the real world, has never been more widely held. Parliament has yet to recover from the expenses scandal of 2009, in which members were found to have charged the taxpayers for such items as a duck house, a bath plug and pay-per-view pornography.
魅力的缺乏加剧了政治阶层和选民脱节的更深层结构性问题。现在有一个空前流行的说法：现实世界的上空漂浮着一个“威斯敏斯特(Westminster)泡泡”。议会尚未从2009年的开支丑闻中恢复过来。在这起丑闻中，人们发现议员们在让纳税人为鸭舍、浴盆塞和按次付费的色情影片之类的东西买单。
In February, two former foreign secretaries, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, a Conservative, and Jack Straw, of Labour, were caught on film offering their consulting services to undercover reporters posing as staff members from a fictitious Chinese firm. They may not have broken any rules, but the impression that even Westminster’s most admired figures are for hire has done nothing for the reputation of the political class.
2月，有人拍到两名前外交大臣——保守党人士马尔柯姆·里夫金德爵士(Sir Malcolm Rifkind)和工党人士杰克·斯特劳(Jack Straw)——为乔装的记者提供咨询服务的情景。这些记者佯装是一家虚构出来的中国公司的员工。他们或许并没有违反任何规定；但是，就连威斯敏斯特最受尊敬的人物都在出卖自己，这样的事情对政治阶层的声誉不会有什么帮助。
Into this landscape, devoid both of trust and excitement, have surged the U.K. Independence Party and the Scottish Nationalists. Led by Nigel Farage, UKIP has harnessed the reactionary populism of the saloon bar and made it the basis of a national movement.
在既缺乏信任，又缺乏兴奋感的情况下，英国独立党(U.K. Independence Party)和苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)顺势而起。由奈杰尔·法拉奇(Nigel Farage)领导的英国独立党利用了小酒馆里的保守民粹主义，使它成为了一场民族运动的基础。
Posing as the party of change, it opposes Britain’s membership in the European Union, “mass migration” and Mr. Cameron’s center-right pragmatism. Mr. Farage gleefully presents UKIP as the “fox in the Westminster henhouse.”
它摆出一种改革派政党的姿态，反对英国的欧盟(European Union)成员身份、“大规模移民”和卡梅伦中间偏右的实用主义。法拉奇兴高采烈地给英国独立党塑造了一种“威斯敏斯特鸡舍里的狐狸”的形象。
After its failure to secure Scottish independence in last year’s referendum, the Scottish National Party might have turned in on itself. Instead, it has prospered and now threatens to storm Labour’s Scottish strongholds. It is entirely possible that Mr. Miliband will be denied a parliamentary majority by these prospective losses in Scotland.
未能在去年的公投中促成苏格兰独立的苏格兰民族党，照理本应低调起来。但恰恰相反，它得到了很好的发展，目前已经对工党的苏格兰据点构成严重威胁。米利班德完全有可能因为苏格兰的这些潜在损失而失去议会的多数票。
Labour strategists are in the predicament of trying to fend off the Scottish Nationalists while also working out how the two parties could cooperate in a governing alliance. Nicola Sturgeon, the Scottish first minister and leader of the Scottish National Party, has made it abundantly clear that any partnership would come at a high price.
工党的策略制定者正处于这样一种困境：一方面要努力抵抗苏格兰民族党人，一方面又要研究两党如何在执政联盟中进行合作。苏格兰第一部长、苏格兰民族党领导人尼古拉·斯特金(Nicola Sturgeon)已经非常明确地表示，任何合作关系都将需要付出高昂的代价。
An election campaign that may at first glance look like a drab stalemate could, in fact, prove to be a transformative moment in British politics. The two-party model that has held sway since World War II has been suspended, and may even be shattered.
事实上，一场乍一看是了无生气的僵局的竞选，最后可能会成为英国政坛的一个变革时刻。二战后占统治地位的两党模式被暂置一旁，甚至可能已经被打破。
If Britain’s modern electoral history is a guide, Mr. Cameron ought to emerge with more members of Parliament than Mr. Miliband. With the help of his chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, the prime minister has presided over a recovery remarkable for its scale of job creation. In defiance of predictions, he and Mr. Clegg have held the coalition together for five years. All told, Mr. Cameron ought by now to be cruising toward a straightforward victory.
如果以英国的现代选举历史为鉴，相比米利班德，卡梅伦应该会获得更多议员的支持。在其财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)的帮助下，卡梅伦主导了一个经济恢复期，创造就业是这段时期的亮点。他和克莱格共同把执政联盟维持了五年之久，这是人们一开始没有预料到的。综上所述，卡梅伦现在本应该在向一场大胜迈进。
The fact that he is nowhere near this position suggests that precedent is not to be trusted. The configurations that may emerge on the morning of May 8 are so numerous and unpredictable that the Whitehall Civil Service is bracing itself for a year of instability, intrigue and even a possible second election. As one senior official put it to me: “Nothing will get done. No big decisions will be taken.”
但他现在离这种情况还比较遥远，这说明先例并不见得总是值得信赖。5月8日上午可能会出现各种各样不可预测的情况，白厅公民服务(Whitehall Civil Service)正在为为期一年的动荡、勾心斗角，甚至可能出现的第二次选举做准备。正如一名高级官员对我所说的那样：“什么事也做不成。什么重大决定也做不了。”