Britain’s grading system is broken. At least, that’s what critics are saying about the 200-year-old tradition of classifying undergraduate degrees into five categories, from first class to fail.
两个世纪以来，英国的教育评分制度一直将本科学位划分为五个等级，从一等到不及格。而如今，这一评分制度已是满目疮痍，至少批评家们是这样认为的。
In an attempt to improve the system, 21 universities started to experiment in November with an American-style grade-point average in hopes that it would be a better evaluation of students’ efforts and help solve grade inflation and other problems. A grade point average is calculated by adding up the grade points awarded to a student and dividing that total by the number of courses in which they were earned.
为完善这一系统，21所大学于2013年11月开始试行美国式平均绩点(GPA)模式，希望藉此更好地评估学生的学习情况，并帮助解决分数通胀和其他问题。GPA的计算方法是，将学生获得的学分相加，然后用总学分除以学生获得积分课程的门数。
But not everyone in British academe is on board. Some say the effort is flawed from the start and may contribute to the erosion of centuries-old methods that undergird higher education here.
但英国学术界也不乏反对人士。有人说，这一举措从一开始就存在缺陷，可能会侵蚀英国延续了几个世纪的评分制度，而这一制度是英国高等教育的支柱。
“I think this G.P.A. reform is a bit like giving academics American titles such as assistant, associate, or full professor. It’s the Americanization of higher education,” said Christopher Hill, head of the politics and international-studies department at the University of Cambridge. “I don’t think it will do what people are assuming it will do. I don’t think it’s likely to make much of a difference.”
剑桥大学(University of Cambridge)政治和国际研究学院院长克里斯托弗·希尔(Christopher Hill)说：“我认为，这种GPA改革有点类似于在学术界推行美国的教育职称，例如助教、副教授或正教授。这是高等教育的美国化。我觉得它难以发挥人们所期待的作用，也不大可能会产生实质性的影响。”
With some similarities to the Latin honor system in the United States, British universities award degrees divided into five distinctions: first-class honors; second class, upper level (referred to as a 2.1); second class, lower (a 2.2); third class; and pass without honors.
英国大学的学位等级制度与美国的拉丁文学位荣誉制度有些相似，它将学位划分为五个等级：一等；二等甲等（称为2.1）；二等乙等（称为2.2）；三等；普通通过。
Part of the issue with the system is that over time, a growing portion of students have earned a first-class degree or a 2.1. About two-thirds of the graduates in the summer of 2011 received those distinctions, according to the British Higher Education Statistics Agency.
这一制度的部分问题在于，随着时间的推移，获得一等学位或二等甲等的学生越来越多。英国高等教育统计局(British Higher Education Statistics Agency)的数据显示，2011年夏季，约三分之二的毕业生都拿到了二等甲等或以上学位。
What’s more, critics complain that the classification paints students with too broad a brush. It essentially divides students into two camps — those with a 2.1 and above and those with a 2.2 and below. Students in the latter category often feel they have failed, especially since employers often seek applicants with at least a 2.1. Proponents of G.P.A.s believe they can better portray the gradient of student achievement without creating such artificial divisions.
此外，批评家抱怨，等级划分的标准过于宽泛。它最终将学生分成了两大阵营——要么是二等甲等及以上等级，要么是二等乙等及以下等级。处于第二阵营的学生们经常会有挫败感，尤其在眼下，二等甲等往往是企业招聘的最低门槛。GPA的支持者认为，这一制度能更好地反映学生成绩的梯度，而不是人为地创建出若干等级。
“While we need accurate assessments, the very sharp divide that has developed between the two degree classes is not helpful,” said Sir Robert Burgess, vice chancellor of the University of Leicester, who is supervising the G.P.A. test run at the 21 British universities.
莱斯特大学(University of Leicester)的校长罗伯特·伯吉斯(Robert Burgess)爵士说：“我们需要的是精确的评估，而两大学位等级之间所形成的巨大鸿沟对此毫无益处。”伯吉斯爵士负责监管正在英国21所大学开展的GPA测试工作。
“If the pilot is successful — and I don’t see why it should not be — reform will gather momentum, so that by the end of this decade I expect all U.K. universities to have adopted the national G.P.A. model that we are working on,” he said.
他说：“如果试点成功——我个人觉得没有失败的理由——改革工作将一路高歌，因此，我预计，所有的英国大学在2020年前都将采用目前正在测试的全国性GPA模式。”
While adoption of G.P.A.s would be voluntary — the British government gives universities autonomy — the idea does have powerful backers. David Willetts, minister of state for universities and science, requested the G.P.A. study, which is being organized by the Higher Education Academy, an independent organization that supports teaching and learning. The group of universities involved includes big names like the University of Nottingham and University College London.
由于英国政府赋予了大学自治权，因此是否采用GPA制度是自愿的，但这一理念确实拥有强有力的支持者。英国大学与科技部长大卫·韦立兹(David Willetts)要求开展GPA调研工作。该工作由支持教学和学习的独立组织教育高等学院(Higher Education Academy)负责牵头。参与这一项目的大学中不乏一些知名大学，例如诺丁汉大学(University of Nottingham)和伦敦大学学院(University College London)。
The universities are providing students both the traditional degree classification and a G.P.A., and this fall the academy plans to publish a report on participants’ experiences.
这些大学向学生同时提供传统的学位等级和GPA。今秋，高等教育学院计划发布参与学校的体验报告。
For Sir Robert, grading reform needs to be a priority for higher education. “We can and need to do better for our students,” he said.
对于罗伯特爵士来说，评分改革应作为高等教育的重点工作来抓。他说：“为了学生，我们能够也应该把工作做得更好。”
Still, some academics are opposed to the change, as are some universities — notably Oxford and Cambridge, in part because a first-class degree from them is a social marker of significant achievement, held by high-profile figures including Prime Minister David Cameron.
然而，一些学校对这一改革持反对态度，包括像牛津和剑桥这类知名学府。这些学校反对的部分原因在于，它们所授予的一等学位是一种社会标识，代表着优异的成绩。包括首相大卫·卡梅伦(David Cameron)在内的众多名人都拥有一等学位。
Tradition aside, some opponents argue that the reform won’t achieve its desired goals: “I know one of the main arguments in favor of the G.P.A. is that it would do away with the ‘cliff edges’ between degree classifications and give a smoother, more continuous scale,” said Michael Kelly, head of modern languages at the University of Southampton. “But the argument against is that it simply introduces more cliff edges.”
一些反对者认为，即便抛开传统不谈，改革也无法实现预期的目标。南安普顿大学(University of Southampton)现代语言学院院长迈克·克里(Michael Kelly)说：“我知道，GPA拥趸的主要观点之一就是，它能消灭学位等级划分中存在的‘断档’现象，并让划分更平稳、更具连续性。但是反对派认为，它只会造成更多的‘断档’。”
He also expressed concern about the potential confusion new grading terms would cause. “A 2.1 is understood as meaning something,” he said.
他还对新评分标准可能会带来的疑惑表示担忧。他说：“人们大概知道二等甲等意味着什么。”
Terence Kealey, vice chancellor of the University of Buckingham, doubted that the G.P.A. would do anything to alleviate grade inflation. “G.P.A.s are obviously fairer than traditional degree classifications as they contain more information and they abolish the near-arbitrary distinctions between the classes of degree,” he said. “They do not, however, address the major contemporary problem of degree inflation.”
白金汉大学(University of Buckingham)校长特伦斯·奇利(Terence Kealey)认为，GPA制度无法缓和学分通胀问题。他说：“GPA制度要比传统的学位等级划分更为公平，因为它包含更多的信息，而且它摒弃了学位等级之间近似随意而为的划分。但是，它并没有解决学分通胀这一当务之急。”
Indeed, in the United States, despite use of the G.P.A., grade inflation remains a pressing concern.
的确，在美国，尽管学校使用的都是GPA制度，但是学分通胀仍是一个亟待解决的问题。
Sir Robert counters that adopting the G.P.A. would be a first step toward a bigger discussion. “First, we have to establish that grade inflation is taking place, and the introduction of G.P.A. will result in a debate about marking practices,” he said.
罗伯特爵士反驳道，采取GPA制度是在为开展更大的讨论铺路。他说：“首先，我们必须承认，学分通胀是存在的，而引进GPA制度将引发人们对‘打分举措’的讨论。”
He argued that it would better enable higher-education experts to keep tabs on whether grades are rising over time.
他表示，比较好的做法是，让高等教育专家密切留意，学分是否会随着时间的推移而增加。
In the end, the issue could come down to the students. The National Union of Students, which has a representative on the committee overseeing the G.P.A. experiment, is anxious about how the change would work. It says it will support reform only if most British universities adopt the G.P.A. at the same time.
最后，问题可能还是在于学生自己。全国学生联合会(National Union of Students)在负责监管GPA试点工作的委员会中安插了代表。该联合会对改革的效果感到担心，同时表示，联合会将支持改革，但前提是大多数英国大学在同一时期采用GPA制度。
“The response of students and graduates is crucial,” said Andrew Wathey, vice chancellor of Northumbria University. “It will be interesting to see how that comes out of the pilot. Old-style prescriptive solutions are a thing of the past.”
诺森比亚大学(Northumbria University)校长安德鲁·沃西(Andrew Wathey)说：“关键在于学生和毕业生的反应。我们期待看到试点的效果，因为老一套的传统解决方案已成为明日黄花。”