LONDON — A knife-wielding assailant driving a sport utility vehicle mowed down panicked pedestrians and stabbed a police officer outside Parliament on Wednesday in a deadly assault, prompting the hasty evacuation of the prime minister and punctuating the threat of terrorism in Europe.
伦敦——在周三的一起致命袭击中，一名持刀歹徒驾驶着运动型多用途车撞倒了惊慌的行人，用刀刺了议会外的一名警员，导致首相匆忙撤离议会大楼，此事突显了恐怖主义对欧洲的威胁。
At least five people, including the assailant, were killed and 40 others injured in the confusing swirl of violence, which police said they assumed had been “inspired by international terrorism.” It appeared to be the most serious such assault in London since the deadly subway bombings more than a decade ago.
这起令人不解的暴力事件导致包括行凶者在内的至少五人丧生，40人受伤。警方表示，此事可能是“受到国际恐怖主义”激发所致。自从十多年前伦敦发生地铁爆炸案导致多人死伤以来，这可能是英国发生的最严重的一起恐怖袭击。
Throughout a turbulent afternoon, ambulances, emergency vehicles and heavily armed security officers thronged the area outside Parliament, as one of the busiest sections of London was cordoned off and evacuated.
这是一个混乱不堪的下午，议会大楼外满是救护车、急救车和全副武装的安全人员，警方对伦敦最繁华的地段之一进行了封锁和疏散。
Prime Minister Theresa May was rushed into a vehicle and spirited back to her office. She held a meeting of the government’s emergency committee and issued a statement on Wednesday night from her 10 Downing St. residence denouncing “the sick and depraved terrorist attack on the streets of our Capital this afternoon.”
首相特丽莎‧梅(Theresa May)被簇拥到一辆车中，快速驶回她的办公室。她召开了政府应急委员会会议。周三晚上，她在唐宁街10号官邸发表声明，谴责了“今天下午在我们首都街道上发生的病态的、卑鄙的恐怖袭击”。
May also said that “the full details of exactly what happened are still emerging,” but she confirmed that the attack had been carried out by a lone male assailant. As of late Wednesday, his identity had not been released, but Scotland Yard officials said they believed they knew whom he was.
首相还说，“对于到底发生了什么事情，全部详情仍待调查，”但她证实，这次袭击是一名男子的单独行动。截至周三晚间，他的身份尚未披露，不过伦敦警察局官员说，他们大致知道他是谁。
The attack unfolded around 2:40 p.m., Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley said at a news conference.
伦敦警察厅助理总监马克·劳利(Mark Rowley)在新闻发布会上说，这起袭击事件是在下午2：40左右发生的。
Driving a large sport utility vehicle, the assailant slammed into pedestrians on Westminster Bridge near Parliament, killing two people and injuring 40 others, before crashing into a railing. A third person injured on the bridge died at a hospital.
袭击者开着一辆大型SUV，猛烈地撞向议会大楼附近威斯敏斯特大桥上的行人，之后撞上栏杆，这导致两人死亡，40人受伤。还有一人在桥上受伤，送到医院后不治而亡。
After the crash, the driver left the vehicle and approached Parliament, where he stabbed an armed police officer to death and was fatally shot by the police.
撞上栏杆后，这名司机丢下车，走向议会大楼。在那里他刺死了一名持有武器的警察，之后被警方击毙。
The dead officer was identified as Keith Palmer, 48, a member of the Parliamentary and Diplomatic Protection Command with 15 years of experience.
遇难的警官被确认是48岁的基思·帕尔默(Keith Palmer)，供职于议会和外交保护科(Parliamentary and Diplomatic Protection Command)已有15年。
The attack came on the anniversary of suicide bombings in Brussels that killed 32 people, along with three bombers.
这场袭击发生在布鲁塞尔自杀式爆炸案一周年之时，那场爆炸导致32人死亡，其中包括三名携炸弹者。
It confirmed fears among counterterrorism officials that London, which had largely escaped recent terrorist attacks in Europe, would join cities like Paris, Brussels and Berlin as targets of mass violence.
这场袭击证实了反恐官员中存在的担忧，即基本躲过了欧洲近期发生的多起恐怖袭击的伦敦，将和巴黎、布鲁塞尔和柏林等城市一起成为大规模暴力行动的目标。
“Terrorism affects us all, and France knows the pain the British people are enduring today,” President François Hollande of France said at a news conference in Villepinte, near Paris.
“恐怖主义影响了我们所有人，法国知道英国民众今天正在承受的痛苦，”法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)在靠近巴黎的维勒潘特举行的一场新闻发布会上说。
May, who spoke with Hollande and President Donald Trump, said in her statement that Parliament would meet as normal on Thursday. She vowed to never permit “the voices of hate and evil to drive us apart.”
与奥朗德和美国总统唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)通过话的梅在声明中表示，议会将在周四照常召开。她发誓决不允许“仇恨和邪恶的声音将我们分裂开来。”