LONDON — The British government’s plan for leaving the European Union was thrown into uncertainty on Thursday after the High Court ruled that Parliament must give its approval before the process can begin.
伦敦——本周四，英国政府的脱欧计划出现了一些不确定性，因为高等法院(High Court)裁定，这一进程开始之前必须得到议会的批准。
The court’s decision seemed likely to slow — but not halt — the British withdrawal from the bloc, a step approved by nearly 52 percent of voters in a June referendum.
高等法院的裁定似乎可能会减缓——但不会中止——英国退出欧盟；在今年6月的全民公投中，接近52%的投票者支持脱欧。
Nevertheless, the court’s decision was a significant blow to Prime Minister Theresa May. She had planned to begin the legal steps for leaving the European Union by the end of March, and to prepare for the negotiations over Britain’s exit mostly behind closed doors.
然而，高等法院的决定对首相特丽莎‧梅(Theresa May)是个重大打击。她已经计划在明年3月底之前启动离开欧盟的法律步骤，并为英国的脱欧谈判做好准备，其中大多数是秘密谈判。
If the court’s ruling is upheld — the government immediately vowed to appeal — that plan would be thrown into disarray, analysts said.
政府马上表示会提起上诉，但分析人士指出，如果高等法院的这个裁定得以维持，那么特丽莎‧梅的计划就会陷入混乱。
Mrs. May would be forced to work with Parliament and consider its competing priorities for Britain’s future. Specifically, she would have to give it a detailed strategy for negotiating the British departure, or “Brexit.” She has adamantly resisted doing so, arguing that this would impede her flexibility in the negotiations, preventing Britain from getting the best possible deal.
梅将被迫与议会合作，考虑议会对英国的未来有哪些不同的优先考量。具体来说，她必须给出一个详细的脱欧谈判策略，即“Brexit”谈判策略。她一直坚决反对这样做，认为这将妨碍她在谈判中的灵活性，让英国无法获得最有利的条件。
Few observers believe that Parliament will go so far as to prevent a departure from the bloc. Lawmakers themselves voted overwhelmingly to hold the referendum and pledged to abide by the results.
几乎没有观察家认为议会将阻止退欧进程。议员们在自己的投票中以压倒性多数支持全民公投，并承诺遵守公投结果。
The ruling unsettled the proponents of exiting the European Union, who warned against any backsliding. Nigel Farage, who resigned as leader of the nationalist U.K. Independence Party after the referendum, said he feared that Britain was heading for a “half Brexit,” and he said he would return to politics in 2019 if the country had not left the bloc by then.
这项裁定让脱欧支持者感到不安，他们警告应避免出现任何倒退。奈杰尔·法拉奇(Nigel Farage)曾在全民公投后辞去了民族主义的英国独立党(Independence Party)领导人的职务，他表示担心英国将走向“半脱欧”。他说，如果英国没有退出欧盟，他将在2019年重返政坛。
“I see M.P.s from all parties saying, ‘Oh well, actually we should stay part of the single market; we should continue with our daily financial contributions,’ ” he said in an interview on BBC Radio. “I think we could be at the beginning, with this ruling, of a process where there is a deliberate, willful attempt by our political class to betray 17.4 million voters.”
“我看到各党的议员都在说，‘好吧，我们其实应该继续作为这个单一市场的一部分；我们应该继续每天的财政贡献，’”他在BBC接受采访时说。“我认为，这个裁定出来后，我们可能开始了一个政治阶层故意、存心背叛1740万选民的过程。”
On Thursday, the government said that an expedited appeal would be heard in December by the Supreme Court, Britain’s highest appellate body, and that it was sticking to its timetable for leaving the bloc for now. Yet in the growing environment of constitutional, legal and political uncertainty, the government’s strategy could easily be disrupted.
周四，英国政府表示，快速提起的上诉将于12月在英国最高上诉机构最高法院(Supreme Court)举行听证会，目前政府会继续按照脱欧时间表开展行动。然而，宪法、法律和政治的不确定性正在日益增长，在这样的环境里，政府的策略很容易被打乱。
The ruling was “a severe setback for Theresa May’s government,” said Mujtaba Rahman, managing director for Europe at the Eurasia Group, a political consulting firm. But he added that the government’s timetable could still be met if the Supreme Court rules in its favor.
政治咨询公司欧亚集团(Eurasia Group)的负责人穆吉塔巴·拉赫曼(Mujtaba Rahman)说，该裁定“对于特丽莎‧梅的政府是个严重挫折”。但他也表示，如果最高法院的裁定对政府的脱欧时间表有利，那么计划仍然可以按时进行。
Although Parliament approved holding the referendum, Mrs. May’s critics argued in court that failing to give lawmakers a voice would turn them into bystanders as Britain negotiated its disengagement from the bloc. They also pointed out that, technically, the referendum is not legally binding.
虽然议会批准了全民公投的举行，但梅的批评者在法庭上表示，在英国进行脱欧谈判的时候，如果不让立法者参与，他们就会变成旁观者。这些批评者还指出，从严格意义上来讲，全民公投没有法律约束力。
The case, brought by several plaintiffs, including Gina Miller, an investment fund manager, and Deir Dos Santos, a hairdresser, is a constitutional one, about the powers vested in the government, the crown and Parliament. The case is not about whether Britain will or will not leave the European Union, but about the procedure for invoking Article 50, the legal mechanism for leaving the bloc, which provides a two-year period for negotiations.
该案由几位原告提出，其中包括投资基金经理吉娜·米勒(Gina Miller)和理发师德尔·多斯·桑托斯(Deir Dos Santos)。这个宪法性案件，涉及政府、王室和议会的权力。其核心不是英国是否脱欧，而是援引“第50条”(Article50)的程序。“第50条”是退欧的法律机制，它为谈判提供了两年的期限。
The plaintiffs argued successfully that leaving the European Union involved the revocation of certain rights granted to Britons by Parliament, and that lawmakers must have a say and a vote before Article 50 is invoked.
原告的论点获得了法院的支持，他们认为，脱欧涉及撤销议会授予英国人的某些权利，而在“第50条”被援引之前，立法者有权进行投票。
In his ruling, the lord chief justice, John Thomas, said that “the most fundamental rule of the U.K. Constitution is that Parliament is sovereign and can make or unmake any law it chooses.”
高等法院的首席法官约翰·托马斯(John Thomas)在裁决中说：“英国宪法最基本的规则是，议会拥有主权，可以制定或撤销任何法律。”
Oddly enough, this was precisely the case made by those who wanted to end membership, who argued that only by leaving the European Union could Parliament’s sovereignty be completely restored. Now that same argument could delay the very exit so desired by those politicians and their supporters.
奇怪的是，这正是脱欧支持者的论点，他们认为，只有退出欧盟，英国议会的主权才能完全恢复。现在，同样的论点可能会推迟这些政客及其支持者所盼望的退欧行动。