LONDON — Britain said on Thursday that it would allow Chinese firms to buy stakes in British nuclear power plants and eventually acquire majority holdings.
伦敦——本周四，英国表示将允许中国企业入股英国核电厂，并最终获得多数股权。
The agreement, which comes with caveats, opens the way for China’s fast-growing nuclear industry to play a significant role in Britain’s plans to proceed with construction of its first new reactor in nearly two decades.
这项带有限制性条款的协议，为中国快速增长的核工业在英国近20年中新建第一座反应堆的计划中发挥重要作用，开辟了道路。
George Osborne, chancellor of the Exchequer, made the announcement on Thursday while visiting a nuclear power station in southern China.
本周四，英国财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)在参观中国南部一座核电站时宣布了这个消息。
The project fits into Britain’s overall plan to deliver at least 12 new nuclear reactors at five sites by 2030. It contradicts countries like Germany and Japan that have pulled back from nuclear power since the Fukushima nuclear disaster in Japan in 2011. Britain has nine aging nuclear plants.
英国的整体计划是在2030年之前，在五处地方修建至少12个新的核反应堆，这个项目即属于其中之一。自2011年日本福岛核灾难后，德国和日本等国减轻了依赖核电的程度，这个项目却反其道而行之。英国有九座老化的核电厂。
Under an agreement signed by the two countries, British companies like Rolls-Royce and International Nuclear Services could also win a bigger role in China’s nuclear power expansion, according to an e-mail from the British Embassy in Beijing that summarized Mr. Osborne’s statement.
英国驻北京大使馆在一封电邮中对奥斯本的声明进行了总结，称根据两国签署的一项协议，罗尔斯·罗伊斯(Rolls-Royce)和国际核能服务公司(International Nuclear Services)等英国公司，也将在中国的核电扩张进程中发挥更大作用。
China is already moving ahead with its own ambitious plan to build dozens of domestic nuclear power stations in coming years. China has 17 reactors now.
中国自己雄心勃勃的计划也在进行中，未来几年里，国内将修建几十座核电站。目前中国拥有17座反应堆。
After an earthquake and tsunami led to partial meltdowns of three nuclear reactors in Fukushima, China imposed a moratorium on construction for many months. The pace of construction has not fully recovered, and China has since reduced its target for nuclear power capacity in 2015 to 40 gigawatts, from 50.
导致三个核反应堆部分熔毁的福岛地震和海啸发生后，在数月时间里，中国暂停了核电站的修建，目前还没有完全恢复原有步伐，中国已经把目标调低，将2015年的核电发电装机容量预期从5000万千瓦降至4000万千瓦。
China’s interest in the British nuclear industry signals a break from a mostly domestic focus. While China has engaged in extensive cooperation with Pakistan in nuclear power, its industry has mostly concentrated on an enormous building program at home.
中国对英国核工业的兴趣，突破了主要侧重于国内的现状。虽然中国在跟巴基斯坦广泛开展核电合作，但其核电工业仍然主要关注在国内的大型建设项目上。
Mr. Osborne’s announcement incited a debate over which type of strategic assets European countries should be open to investment from China.
奥斯本宣布的消息，激起了欧洲国家应该把哪种战略性资产开放给中国投资的辩论。
“Cooperation on civil nuclear energy with China has been going on for a long time, and there are many French companies working with the Chinese on these issues, so it’s not something I find difficult to accept,” said Michel Barnier, the European commissioner responsible for the internal markets, speaking in London.
欧盟委员会负责内部市场的委员米歇尔·巴尼耶(Michel Barnier)在伦敦说，“在民用核能领域，欧洲与中国合作已经有很长一段时间了，很多法国企业在这些领域与中国合作，所以我不觉得这件事很难接受。”
Britain’s energy market is already dominated by European giants, including E.D.F., the French state-controlled power company that is supposed to oversee construction and eventually operate the proposed Hinkley Point project in southwest England, and the German utility E.On. Opening its nuclear power industry to Chinese investment raises questions over Beijing’s influence in a highly sensitive energy sector.
一些欧洲巨头已经在英国能源市场占据了主导地位，比如法国电力集团(EDF)和德国公用事业企业意昂集团(E.On)。前者是一家法国国有控股的电力公司，英格兰西南部欣克利角(Hinkley Point)拟建的核电站应该会由它监督施工和最终营运。英国把核电产业开放给中国投资，使得北京在高度敏感的能源领域的影响力引起了人们的疑虑。
The British government said that any Chinese investments had to meet strict standards for safety and security. Chinese investors will most likely have a minority stake in the Hinkley Point project, the government indicated Thursday, adding that “Over time, stakes in subsequent new power stations could be majority stakes.”
英国政府表示，所有中国投资都必须符合严格的安全标准。英国政府本周四称，中国投资者很可能只会拥有欣克利角项目的少数股权，而“随着时间推移，中国在后续新电站持有的股份可以是多数股份。”
Antony Froggatt, a senior research fellow at Chatham House, a research institute in London, said there were few concerns with a Chinese role because of the partnership with the French in China. “If there were a falling-out politically, I think they would be more likely to withdraw funding than to switch off the lights,” he said.
伦敦研究机构查塔姆研究所(Chatham House)高级研究员安东尼·弗罗加(Antony Froggatt)说，中国的角色没有什么好担心的，因为法国在中国有相关合作。他说，“如果政治关系恶化，我想他们更有可能撤出资金，而不是关掉电站。”
While Germany wants to shut all of its nuclear plants by 2022 and shift almost entirely to wind and solar power by 2050, Britain is betting big on nuclear power. Though it is also pushing into production of shale oil and gas, Britain aims to cut greenhouse gas emissions in half by the mid-2020s in large part by renewing the older nuclear power plants.
德国希望在2022年前关闭所有核电厂，在2050年前几乎完全转用风能和太阳能发电，但与此同时，英国却正在核电上押下重注。此外，英国虽然也在推动页岩油和页岩气的生产，但也计划在本世纪20年代中期削减一半的温室气体排放量，这在很大程度上需要靠更新老旧的核电厂来实现。
But Britain’s ability to succeed with China’s help is anything but assured. Details of the planned Hinkley Point project in Somerset, including energy price guarantees offered by the British government that could result in higher power bills for consumers, are expected to be announced early next week. Britain says that there are no direct state subsidies for the project, which is now estimated to cost about $22 billion. Europe’s regulators who police state subsidies could dispute that figure.
然而很难确定英国在中国的帮助下能否达成这个目标。欣克利角项目位于萨默塞特郡，其详情估计将于下周初公布，其中包括英国政府给出的电价保证，这可能会导致用户需要交纳更高的电费。英国表示，国家不会为这个预计耗资220亿美元（约合1341亿元人民币）的项目提供直接补贴。对国家补贴进行监管的欧洲监管机构可能会对这个数字表示异议。
If and when the new plant, Hinkley Point C, comes fully online, it will supply about 7 percent of Britain’s electricity. That would be enough power for five million homes, with the added benefit of no carbon emissions.
新的欣克利角C核电站全面并网后，可以为整个英国提供约7%的电力，足够500万户家庭使用，而且不会增加碳排放量。
But the negotiations over the Hinkley Point plant have been long and difficult. Originally, E.D.F., which already operates 15 nuclear plants in Britain, had intended to be in partnership with Centrica, the owner of British Gas. But Centrica withdrew from discussions, saying the economic case for a partnership was not strong enough.
但是，关于欣克利角核电厂的谈判却漫长而艰难。已经在英国运营15个核电厂的EDF，最初是打算跟英国天然气公司(British Gas)的所有者森特理克集团(Centrica)合作。但森特理克退出了合作的磋商，称参与这个项目不会带来足够的经济效益。
That setback underscores how building a new nuclear plant in the West is expensive and fraught with risk. Two French-designed plants under construction at Flamanville, France, and Olkiluoto, Finland, have been plagued by technical problems and huge cost overruns. Last year, two big German utilities, R.W.E. and E.On, decided not to proceed with construction of a plant that had been planned for Wales, largely because of the costs and the uncertainty of getting a return on their investment. E.D.F.’s stock price, along with those of many European utilities, has been under pressure of late.
这个挫折突显了在西方国家新建一座核电厂代价何其昂贵，风险何其巨大。在法国弗拉芒维尔和芬兰奥尔基洛托，两座由法国设计的核电厂在修建中遇到了技术问题和成本大量超支的困扰。去年，德国的两家大型公用事业企业莱茵集团(RWE)和意昂集团决定，不会将一座本来规划在威尔士落成的电厂投入建设，主要原因是成本太高，以及获得投资回报具有不确定性。跟很多欧洲公用事业企业一样，EDF的股价最近也承受着压力。
Kirsty Alexander, head of communications for the Nuclear Industry Association, a trade association for Britain’s nuclear industry, said E.D.F. was bringing on partners because “it’s the huge upfront capital investment. It’s billions and billions of pounds. With nuclear you don’t see any return on your investment for 15 years.”
英国核工业协会(Nuclear Industry Association)是该国的核工业行业协会，其负责媒体关系的主管克斯蒂·亚历山大(Kirsty Alexander)说，EDF找其他公司合作，是因为“前期资本投入非常巨大，要以十亿英镑计算。在核电领域，前15年看不到任何投资回报。”
A possible investor is China General Nuclear Power, which is the majority stakeholder in the Taishan nuclear plant in Guangdong Province in southern China, where Mr. Osborne made his announcement on Thursday.
中国广核集团(China General Nuclear Power)有可能进行投资，它是广东台山核电站的大股东，周四奥斯本就是在这座核电站宣布的这个消息。
China passed the United States in overall generating capacity in 2011 and now has a total of 1,145 gigawatts, compared with a little more than 1,000 gigawatts in the United States. Nuclear power represents 1.1 percent of China’s electricity generating capacity, compared with nearly 10 percent in the United States. In terms of electricity actually generated, as opposed to capacity, nuclear is about 2 percent of the total in China and 19 percent in the United States.
中国的发电装机总容量在2011年超过美国，目前为11.45亿千瓦，略高于美国的10亿千瓦。中国核能发电装机容量占总装机总容量的1.1%，这个数字在美国约为10%。从实际发电量而不是装机容量来看，核电在中国占2%，在美国占19%。