LONDON — Britain has voted to leave the European Union, a historic decision sure to reshape the nation’s place in the world, rattle the Continent and rock political establishments throughout the West.
伦敦——英国公投决定退出欧盟。这一历史性决定将重塑英国的世界地位，让欧洲大陆陷入不安，并震动整个西方政治秩序。
With all but a handful of the country’s cities and towns reporting Friday morning, the “Leave” campaign held a 52 percent to 48 percent lead. More than 17 million people voted in the referendum on Thursday to sever ties with the European Union, and about 15.9 million to remain within the bloc.
周五早间，英国几乎所有城市和城镇都报告了投票结果，脱欧阵营的得票率是52%，超过对方的48%得票率。超过1741万张票支持脱欧，大约1590万票支持留下。
The value of the British pound plummeted as financial markets absorbed the news.
金融市场接到这个消息，英镑大幅贬值。
Despite opinion polls ahead of the referendum on Thursday that showed either side in a position to win, the outcome nonetheless stunned much of Britain, Europe and the trans-Atlantic alliance, highlighting the power of anti-elite, populist and nationalist sentiment at a time of economic and cultural dislocation.
周四公投前的不同民调结果显示两方均有可能获胜，但公投的结果仍然震惊了多数英国人、欧洲人，也震惊了他们在大西洋彼岸的盟友，突显了反精英、民粹主义、和民族主义思潮在当前经济与文化脱序的时代所爆发出的强大力量。
“Dare to dream that the dawn is breaking on an independent United Kingdom,” Nigel Farage, the leader of the U.K. Independence Party, one of the primary forces behind the push for a referendum on leaving the European Union, told cheering supporters just after 4 a.m.
“让我们勇敢憧憬一个独立的联合王国的黎明，”英国独立党(U.K. Independence Party)领袖奈杰尔· 法拉吉(Nigel Farage)在凌晨4点刚过的时候，对欢呼的支持者这样说。独立党是推动脱欧公投的一股主要力量。
Britain will become the first country to leave the 28-member bloc, which has been increasingly weighed down by its failures to deal fully with a succession of crises, from the financial collapse of 2008 to a resurgent Russia and the massive influx of migrants last year.
英国将成为第一个退出欧盟的国家。从2008年金融危机到俄罗斯复兴，再到去年的难民潮，由28个成员国构成的欧盟面对接二连三的危机应对乏术，步履日益艰难。
The result left Prime Minister David Cameron, who led the charge for Britain to remain a member of the European Union, badly weakened and at risk of losing his job. It was a remarkable victory for the country’s anti-European forces, which not long ago were considered to have little chance of prevailing.
这个公投结果让力主留欧的首相卡梅伦遭受打击，并且有下台的危险。英国反欧盟阵营则获得了一次重大胜利。不久前，人们还认为这股势力占上风的可能性很小。
Financial markets, which had been anticipating that Britain would vote to stay in, braced for a day of losses and possible turmoil. Economists had predicted that a vote to leave the bloc could do substantial damage to the British economy.
金融市场一直预测英国会投票留在欧盟，如今却面临着价值缩水和市场震荡的可能性。经济学家曾预言，脱离欧盟的决定将严重损害英国经济。
Mr. Cameron had vowed before the vote to move quickly to begin the divorce process if Britain voted to leave. But even if he follows through — some leaders of the Leave movement have counseled moving slowly — nothing will change immediately on either side of the Channel, with existing trade and immigration rules remaining in place. The withdrawal process is expected to be complex and contentious, though under the bloc’s governing treaty it is effectively limited to two years.
卡梅伦在公投前承诺，如果英国人投票决定脱欧，他将迅速启动脱离程序。但即使他兑现承诺——一些脱欧阵营领袖曾建议缓慢行事——英吉利海峡两岸的情况也不会立即发生变化，现有的贸易和移民规则都将继续生效。退出欧盟的过程预计将十分复杂且充满矛盾，不过根据欧盟条约，这个过程的时限基本是两年。
For the European Union, the result is a disaster, raising questions about the direction, cohesion and future of a bloc built on liberal values and shared sovereignty that represents, with NATO, a vital component of Europe’s postwar structure.
对欧盟而言，这一结果是灾难性的，将引发关乎其方向、凝聚力和未来的一系列问题。建立在自由主义价值观和共享主权理念之上的欧盟，和北约(NATO)一齐构成了欧洲战后秩序的关键组成部分。
Britain is the second-largest economy after Germany in the European Union, a nuclear power with a seat on the United Nations Security Council, an advocate of free-market economics and a close ally of the United States.
英国是欧盟内部仅次于德国的第二大经济体，是在联合国安理会拥有一席之地的核大国，是自由市场经济学的拥护者，同时也是美国的亲密盟友。
The loss of Britain is an enormous blow to the credibility of a bloc already under pressure from slow growth, high unemployment, the migrant crisis, Greece’s debt woes and the conflict in Ukraine.
欧盟已经在承受经济增速放缓、失业率高企、移民危机、希腊债务危机及乌克兰的冲突等重重压力，英国的出走对它而言是又一个重大打击。
“The main impact will be massive disorder in the E.U. system for the next two years,” said Thierry de Montbrial, founder and executive chairman of the French Institute of International Relations. “There will be huge political transition costs, on how to solve the British exit, and the risk of a domino effect or bank run from other countries that think of leaving.”
“最主要的影响是， 欧盟体系在未来两年里将出现大规模的混乱，”法国国际关系研究所(French Institute for International Relations)创始人兼执行主席蒂埃里·德蒙布里亚尔(Thierry de Montbrial)说。“在如何应对英国脱欧的问题上，政治过渡成本将是巨大的，还存在其他想要离开的国家产生多米诺骨牌效应或者出现银行挤兑现象的风险。”
Europe will have to “reorganize itself in a system of different degrees of association,” said Karl Kaiser, a Harvard professor and former director of the German Council on Foreign Relations. “Europe does have an interest in keeping Britain in the single market, if possible, and in an ad hoc security relationship.”
欧洲将不得不“在一个关联程度不一的体系里进行自我重组，”曾是德国外交关系理事会(German Council on Foreign Relations)负责人的哈佛大学教授卡尔·凯泽(Karl Kaiser)说。“如果有可能，符合欧洲利益的做法的确是把英国留在这个统一的大市场中，留在一种特定的安全关系中。”
While leaders of the Leave campaign spoke earnestly about sovereignty and the supremacy of Parliament or in honeyed tones about “the bright sunlit uplands” of Britain’s future free of Brussels, it was anxiety about immigration — membership in the European Union means freedom of movement and labor throughout the bloc — that defined and probably swung the campaign.
虽然脱欧运动的领导者颇为认真地谈论了主权和议会至上的原则，并以甜腻的腔调谈及英国在摆脱布鲁塞尔的束缚之后成为“洒满阳光的明亮高地”的前景，但能总结并左右这场运动的，其实是移民问题引发的焦虑——身为欧盟的一员意味着在整个欧盟范围内的迁徙自由和劳工自由。
With net migration to Britain of 330,000 people in 2015, more than half of them from the European Union, Mr. Cameron had no effective response to how he could limit the influx. And there was no question that while the immigrants contributed more to the economy and to tax receipts than they cost, parts of Britain felt that its national identity was under assault and that the influx was putting substantial pressure on schools, health care and housing.
英国2015年净增移民33万人，其中一半以上来自欧盟内部，而卡梅伦并未就如何才能限制移民涌入做出有力回应。此外，毋庸置疑的是，尽管移民对经济和税收收入的贡献大于他们带来的成本，但英国一些地方的人还是觉得自己的民族认同遭到了打击，而且移民的涌入也带来了学校、医疗和住房方面的巨大压力。
The campaign run by one of the loudest proponents of leaving, the U.K. Independence Party, or UKIP, flirted with xenophobia, nativism and what some of its critics considered racism. But the official, more mainstream Leave campaign also invoked immigration as an issue and its slogan, “Take control,” resonated with voters who feel that the government is failing to regulate the inflow of people from Europe and beyond.
这场运动是由声音最响亮的脱欧支持者之一英国独立党组织的，参杂着排外主义、本土主义以及被批评者视为种族主义的某种东西。但较为主流的正式的脱欧运动也提及了移民问题，其口号“拿回控制权”让那些觉得政府无法限制移民从欧洲等地涌入的选民产生了共鸣。
Other anti-establishment and far-right parties in Europe, like the National Front of Marine Le Pen in France, Geert Wilder’s party in the Netherlands and the Alternative for Germany party will celebrate the outcome. The depth of anti-Europe sentiment could be a key factor in national elections scheduled next year in the other two most important countries of the European Union, France and Germany.
欧洲的其它反建制和极右派政党，比如法国由马琳·勒庞(Marine Le Pen)领导的国民阵线(National Front)，荷兰由海尔特·维尔德斯(Geert Wilders)领导的政党，以及德国另类选择党(Alternative for Germany) ，将为这一结果的出炉额手相庆。 对于欧盟的另外两个最重要的国家——法国和德国——定于明年举行的两场大选而言，反欧情绪的高涨程度可能成为至关重要的影响因素。
The British campaign featured assertions and allegations tossed around with little regard to the facts. Both sides played to emotion, and the most common emotion played upon was fear.
英国的这场运动充斥着无关事实的断言和指控。双方都大打情感牌，而最为常见的情感牌就是恐惧。
The Remain side, citing scores of experts and elite opinion, warned that Brexit would mean an economic catastrophe, a plunging pound, higher taxes, more austerity and the loss of jobs.
留欧派援引专家和精英的观点警告称，英国退出欧盟将会带来经济灾难，意味着英镑暴跌，税率提高，紧缩政策加码，失业率上升。
The Leave side warned that remaining would produce uncontrolled immigration, crime and terrorism, with hordes pouring into Britain from Turkey, a country of 77 million Muslims that borders Syria and Iraq and hopes to join the European Union.
主张脱欧的一方则警告称，继续留在欧盟会产生难以控制的移民、犯罪和恐怖主义问题。有大批人正从有7700万穆斯林的土耳其涌入英国，该国与叙利亚和伊拉克接壤，而且希望加入欧盟。
Just a week before the vote, the country was jolted by the brutal murder of a young Labour member of Parliament, Jo Cox, 41, a strong supporter of Remain. A man who prosecutors said shouted “Britain first,” “This is for Britain,” and “Keep Britain independent” was charged with her murder.
就在举行投票的前一周，强烈支持留欧的年轻工党议员、41岁的乔·考克斯(Jo Cox)惨遭杀害的事件震动了整个英国。检方表示，一名男子被指控杀害了她，这名男子曾叫喊“英国优先”，“这是为了英国”，以及“保持英国独立”。
In England especially, 85 percent of the population of Britain, many people fell back on national pride, cultural exceptionalism and nostalgia. Many English voters chose to believe the insistence of anti-European leaders like Boris Johnson, the former mayor of London and potential challenger to Mr. Cameron, that as a great nation, Britain would be more powerful and successful outside the European Union than inside.
尤其是在占英国人口85%的英格兰，人们陷入了民族自豪、文化例外主义和怀旧情绪之中。许多英国选民选择相信前伦敦市长、卡梅伦的潜在挑战者鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)等反欧盟领袖的坚定主张，即作为一个伟大的国家，英国在脱欧后将更加强大，可以获得更大的成功。
In Scotland and Northern Ireland, by contrast, there was a strong pro-European feeling that has only increased tensions within the United Kingdom itself.
相比之下，苏格兰和北爱尔兰有强烈的支持欧盟的情绪，这恰恰增强了英国内部的紧张气氛。
With this result, those who favor Scottish independence will have a new wind for another referendum, even if they may wish to wait until they are sure to win one.
因为出现这样的结果，支持苏格兰独立的人将有新的理由进行另一轮公投，尽管他们可能希望等到确定自己能获胜时。
And Northern Ireland, which has long had an open border with the Republic of Ireland, a member of the European Union, will face a new reality. That open border will become the border between the European Union and a nonmember, and for security and economic reasons will have to be equipped with border posts to check goods and passports.
长久以来，北爱尔兰一直与欧盟成员国爱尔兰开放边境，它将面临新的现实。那片开放的边境将变成欧盟与非欧盟成员国的边境，为安全和经济因素考虑，将会设立边防哨所，对过往人员的物资和护照进行检查。
Mr. Cameron felt pushed into announcing the referendum in 2013 by the anti-Europe wing of his own party, amplified by concerns among other Tories that UKIP and its leader, Nigel Farage, were cutting too sharply into the Conservative vote.
卡梅伦感到，自己是被自身政党内的反欧盟力量推动着于2013年宣布进行公投的。其他保守党人的一种担忧也起到了助推作用，即担心独立党及其领袖奈杰尔·法拉吉在大幅分流保守党的选票。
Still, Mr. Cameron entered the campaign with the force of economic experts, Mr. Obama, European allies and big business behind him. But as ever, referendums are not about the question asked but the political mood at the time, and the political mood is sour.
尽管如此，卡梅伦在经济学家、奥巴马、欧洲盟友和大企业的支持下开始拉票。只不过，公投一如既往地与相关的问题无关，而是关乎投票那段时间的政治氛围。当下，政治氛围怨气很重。
Mr. Cameron was also, predictably, undermined by the new Labour Party leader, Jeremy Corbyn, a man of the more traditional hard left who was a surprise choice to lead the party after its disastrous defeat in the May 2015 elections.
不出所料，卡梅伦也被新的工党领袖杰里米·科尔宾(Jeremy Corbyn)削弱了力量。后者属于更传统的强硬左派，于工党在2015年5月的大选中惨败之后意外地成为该党领袖。
Mr. Corbyn voted against British membership in what was then the European Economic Community in the last referendum in 1975. This time, he said he and Labour would support continued membership, but he refused to campaign alongside Mr. Cameron, reluctant to save his political opponent.
在英国于1975年举行的上一次公投中，科尔宾对英国加入当时被称为欧洲经济共同体(European Economic Community)的欧盟投了反对票。这一次，他表示他和工党将支持继续留欧，但他拒绝与卡梅伦一起拉票，不愿对这个政敌施以援手。
And asked how he felt about the European Union, Mr. Corbyn said he was “not a huge fan,” and on a scale of 10, Mr. Corbyn said between “seven and seven and a half.”
在被问到他对欧盟持什么态度时，科尔宾表示“不是很喜欢”，以最高程度10分论，他打了“7到7.5之间”的分数。
While Mr. Cameron emphasized risks to Britain’s economy and security and national influence, Mr. Corbyn talked of protecting workers’ rights.
尽管卡梅伦一直强调英国的经济、安全和国家影响力将面临风险，科尔宾则在谈论维护工人的权利。
The victory of the Leave campaign and Britain’s exit from the European Union risks making Britain a poorer place, if the pre-referendum economic forecasts prove true, and hurt many of the very people that Mr. Corbyn represents.
如果公投前的经济预测成真，支持脱欧一方的胜利和英国退出欧盟可能会令英国变得更穷，而这将损害科尔宾所代表的群体中的许多人的利益。