LONDON — The prospect of an imminent Western military strike on Syrian government targets appeared to encounter a delay on Wednesday when Britain signaled it would first await the findings of a United Nations inquiry into the suspected use of chemical weapons in an attack that killed hundreds near Damascus last week, and then hold a separate parliamentary vote, which could be days away.
伦敦——西方国家针对叙利亚政府目标的军事打击原本一触即发，但预期中的行动似乎在周三遭遇了阻滞。大马士革附近地区上周发生了一起导致数百人丧生的袭击事件，其间疑似有使用化学武器的迹象。英国于周三表示，它首先要等待联合国对此事的调查结果，随后还要由议会就此投票表决——而时间可能是在数日之后。
Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, who runs a coalition government, is facing political difficulties from legislators mindful of the experience in Iraq, when assurances from Prime Minister Tony Blair and President George W. Bush that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction proved inaccurate and a false pretext for war.
执掌联合政府的英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)正面临着来自议员的政治压力，他们仍为伊拉克问题上的遭遇耿耿于怀：英国前首相托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)和美国前总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)曾言之凿凿地表示，萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)拥有大规模杀伤性武器，事实最后证明，这种说法并不准确，不过是发动战争的虚假借口。
Mr. Cameron bowed on Wednesday to pressure from the opposition Labour Party and some within his own coalition who want to allow United Nations weapons inspectors a chance to report their findings and for the United Nations Security Council to make one more effort to give a more solid legal backing to military action against Damascus.
周三，卡梅伦迫于压力，向在野的工党以及他的联合政府中的某些成员做出让步，这些人主张给联合国武器调查员一个公布调查结果的机会，也好让联合国安理会再做一次努力，为针对大马士革的军事行动提供更坚实的法律基础。
As Mr. Cameron ran into difficulties, the Syrian government, which has denied accusations by a range of Western and Arab countries that it used chemical weapons in the Aug. 21 attack, moved abruptly to prolong the inspectors’ visit, announcing that it had evidence of three previously unreported chemical weapons assaults that it said had been carried out by insurgents and should be investigated by the inspectors.
在卡梅隆遭遇麻烦之际，叙利亚政府突然延长了调查员的调查日程，宣称其持有与此前尚未公布的3次化学武器袭击相关的证据，并表示这些袭击是由叛乱分子发动的，调查员对此应予以查证。一些西方和阿拉伯国家指控该国政府在8月21日的袭击中使用了化学武器，但叙方却极力予以否认。
If they look into those accusations, the inspectors could remain in Syria well past this weekend, beyond their original mandate.
如果对这些指控展开调查，调查员可能过了这个周末才能离开叙利亚，而这超出了他们最初的任务期限。
The developments slowed the momentum the United States and Britain had been building for military intervention in the Syrian conflict, which began more than two years ago as a popular uprising against President Bashar al-Assad and has since become a civil war that has left more than 100,000 people dead and destabilized the Middle East.
此前，美国和英国蓄势待发，准备武力介入叙利亚争端，事态的发展让这种势头有所减弱。叙利亚争端始于两年多以前反对巴沙尔·阿萨德( Bashar al-Assad)总统的民众起义，从那以后逐渐演变为一场已经造成10万人死亡，并让中东局势陷入动荡的内战。
The American and British governments have said that the evidence is already persuasive that Mr. al-Assad’s forces used chemical munitions on civilians in the Damascus suburb of Ghouta last week, committing what the Obama administration has called a moral atrocity that cannot go unanswered.
美国和英国政府已经表示，有令人信服的的证据证明，阿萨德的部队在大马士革市郊的姑塔地区对平民使用了化学武器，犯下了奥巴马政府所说的不能被置之不理的道德暴行。
The United States could still act without Britain’s support, but the Obama administration has actively sought to build a consensus for a military strike, and Britain is America’s closest ally. While expectations had been building that a strike could happen by the weekend, another few days may make no difference to what has been advertised as a short, sharp punishment for the use of chemical weapons, not an effort to oust Mr. Assad.
没有英国的支持，美国也可以行动，但奥巴马政府一直积极寻求就军事打击达成共识，而英国是美国最亲密的盟友。外界一直以为在本周末之前就会有一次军事打击行动，但再晚几天也没有什么影响，就像对外声称的那样，行动只是针对使用化学武器的行为而进行的一种短暂但却严厉的惩罚，而不是试图要推翻阿萨德政权。
The British signal that it would not rush to military action came late Wednesday when Mr. Cameron’s government, aware of the sensitivities created by the legacy of the run-up to the Iraq war a decade ago, said unexpectedly in a motion to be voted on by Parliament Thursday that a separate vote on military action would be required. That vote may not take place until next week.
英国在周三晚间发出了它并不急于采取军事行动的信号。卡梅伦政府意识到，12年前的伊拉克战争在准备阶段出现的问题让此事变得很敏感。在一项将于周四由议会投票表决的动议中，它出人意料地表示，需就军事行动单独进行一次投票表决。而这个投票表决可能要等到下周才能进行。
The text of the motion states that “a United Nations process must be followed as far as possible to ensure the maximum legitimacy for any such action,” and that the secretary general “should ensure a briefing to the United Nations Security Council immediately upon the completion of the team’s initial mission.”
该项动议原文称，“必须尽可能地遵循联合国的程序，在最大程度上确保任何此类行动的合法性”，且秘书长“应确保调查小组完成最初任务之后立即向联合国安理会进行汇报。”
Mr. Cameron’s pullback came as Britain moved to introduce a Security Council resolution that would authorize military action in Syria — a measure that Russia, the Syrian government’s most important backer, quickly signaled it would block, as it has done several times.
就在卡梅伦后退一步之际，英国向安理会提交决议，该决议会授权对叙利亚进行军事打击。叙利亚政府最重要的支持者俄罗斯很快就表示，会否决该项提议，而这样的事情已经发生过数次。
After an informal meeting among the five permanent Council members at United Nations headquarters in New York, no further action on the resolution was taken. “This isn’t going anywhere,” a Western diplomat said.
五个常任理事国在联合国位于纽约的总部开了一个非正式会议，但没有对该决议采取进一步行动。一位西方的外交官说，“这份决议没有任何前途。”
The Russians argued that it was premature to even talk about such a resolution while United Nations inspectors were on the ground in Syria.
俄罗斯认为，在联合国调查员还停留在叙利亚境内的时候，讨论这样的决议为时过早。
Syria’s ambassador to the United Nations, Bashar Jaafari, added a new level of complexity to the issue, announcing that he had submitted evidence of the three new instances of chemical weapons use in Syria, which he asserted had been carried out by armed terrorist groups, the government’s blanket term for Syrian opposition forces.
叙利亚常驻联合国代表巴沙尔·贾法里(Bashar Jaafari)宣称，已就新近的三个化学武器事件提交了证据，这让事情变得愈发复杂。他断言这些袭击的发动者是武装恐怖集团——政府对叙利亚反对派势力的总称。
Mr. Jaafari said they occurred on Aug. 22, 24 and 25, and were also in the Damascus suburbs. He said Syrian soldiers were the targets. The ambassador did not explain why he waited to come forth with the allegations.
贾法里称，这三次袭击分别发生于8月22日、24日和25日，地点同样是大马士革郊区。他说叙利亚士兵是袭击的目标。这位外交官并未解释他为什么等了这么久才提出指控。
In Washington, the State Department spokeswoman, Marie Harf, suggested that the failure of Britain’s Security Council resolution to move forward on Wednesday had been expected.
在华盛顿，美国国务院发言人玛丽·哈尔夫(Marie Harf)暗示，英国提交安理会的决议无法取得进展是意料之中的事。
“All previous attempts to get the Security Council to act on Syria have been blocked, and we cannot allow diplomatic paralysis to be a shield for the perpetrators of these crimes,” she said. “We do not believe that the Syrian regime should be able to hide behind the fact that the Russians continue to block action on Syria at the U.N.”
“此前所有推动安理会对叙利亚采取行动的努力都没有结果，我们不能容许外交瘫痪成为这些暴行的挡箭牌，”她说，“俄罗斯仍在阻止安理会对叙利亚采取行动，但我们不相信这种做法就能保护叙利亚政权。”
Asked if the United States would await the findings of the United Nations inspectors, Ms. Harf repeated the administration’s assertions that their work was too late to be credible because Syrian government forces had repeatedly shelled the attack sites, compromising evidence-gathering efforts.
当被问及美国是否会等待联合国调查员的调查结果时，哈尔夫重申了奥巴马政府的论断：他们的工作开展得太晚了，因此并不可靠，叙利亚政府军曾多次炮轰袭击地点，妨害了证据的收集。
“We’re going to make our own decisions on our own timelines about our response,” she said. “Obviously, we will continue consultations with our international partners around the world, but we are making decisions based on our own timeline.”
“关于我们将作何反应，我们会根据自己的时间表做出决定，”她说。“显然，我们将继续与全世界的国际合作伙伴进行协商，但会根据自己的时间表做出决策。”