LONDON — Thirty years after Indian troops stormed the Golden Temple at Amritsar, leaving hundreds dead, the British government said Tuesday that it would open an investigation after the release of documents suggesting that British special forces had helped to draw up a plan to attack the building.
伦敦——30年前，印度军队袭击了位于阿姆利则(Amritsar)的大金庙(Golden Temple)，导致数百人死亡。英国政府本周二表示，将对此事展开调查，因为相关文件得到公布，表明英国特种部队曾帮忙制定袭击该建筑的计划。
The June 1984 raid on the temple, the holiest shrine for Sikhs, was intended to flush out separatists and, according to the Indian government, killed about 400 people. Sikh groups estimate that many more were killed, and the raid caused outrage among Sikhs around the world.
1984年6月，这座对于锡克人来说最神圣的庙宇遭到了袭击，袭击的目的是赶走分离主义者，按照印度政府的说法，共有约400人在此次袭击中丧生。据锡克组织估计，实际死亡人数可能要多得多。此外，此事让世界各地的锡克人都倍感愤怒。
The internal government documents were published on a British blog, Stop Deportations, which said that they had been released under rules allowing for the publication of government records after 30 years, but that they had been “buried” beneath other documents made public on Jan. 1.
一些政府内部文件被发表在了英国博客网站“停止驱逐”(Stop Deportations)上。该网站称，根据政府记录在30年后即可公开的规定，这些文件得以公开，但在此之前，它们都被于1月1日公开的其他文件“埋没了”。
One letter, dated Feb. 6, 1984, from the office of Britain’s prime minister at the time, Margaret Thatcher, mentioned the “Indian request for advice on plans for the removal of dissident Sikhs from the Golden Temple,” adding that Mrs. Thatcher was “content that the foreign secretary should proceed as he proposes.”
文件中包括时任英国首相玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)的办公室发出的一封信，信上标注的日期为1984年2月6日。信中提到“印度想把持不同政见的锡克人从大金庙里赶出去，希望我们为该计划提供建议”，还说撒切尔“认为外交大臣可以按他的提议行事”。
Another letter, dated Feb. 23, 1984, said that the foreign secretary, Geoffrey Howe, had “decided to respond favorably to the Indian request and, with the prime minister’s agreement, an SAD officer has visited India and drawn up a plan which has been approved by Mrs. Gandhi.”
另一封信的标注日期为1984年2月23日，信中说外交大臣杰弗里·豪(Geoffrey Howe)已经“决定满足印度的请求，在首相同意的情况下，一名SAD官员访问了印度，并起草了一份得到甘地夫人(Gandhi)认可的计划”。
“The foreign secretary believes that the Indian government may put the plan into operation shortly,” the letter said.
信中写道，“外交大臣认为，印度政府或许很快就会实施计划。”
Indira Gandhi was India’s prime minister at the time, and the reference to SAD appears to be a misspelling of S.A.S., which stands for Special Air Service, Britain’s elite special forces.
当时的印度总理是英迪拉·甘地(Indira Gandhi)，信中提到的SAD似乎拼错了，正确的写法应该是SAS——英国精锐的空军特种部队(Special Air Service)的缩写。
Whether the advice was taken, however, remains unclear. The BBC reported that the Indian general who led the operation, Kuldip Singh Brar, denied using British help.
不过，目前还不清楚印度是否采纳了英方的建议。BBC报道称，领导该行动的印度将领库尔迪·辛格·布拉尔(Kuldip Singh Bra)否认曾利用英国的帮助。
“I have never heard of it before,” the BBC quoted him as saying. “As far as we are concerned, as far as the Indian Army are concerned, there was no mention of this ever.”
“我之前从未听说此事,”BBC援引他的话说。“据我们和印度陆军(Indian Army)所知，从未有人提及此事。”
In a statement, the British government said that the storming of the Golden Temple “led to a tragic loss of life, and we understand the very legitimate concerns that these papers will raise.”
英国政府在一份声明中表示，针对大金庙的袭击行动“导致了惨重的人员伤亡，我们理解因这些文件而来的合理关切。”
“The prime minister and the foreign secretary were unaware of these papers prior to publication,” the government said, referring to David Cameron and William Hague.
政府表示，“这些文件公布之前，首相和外交部长并不知晓它们的存在。”这里指的是戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)和威廉·黑格(William Hague)。
In a statement, the Sikh Council U.K. welcomed the inquiry, saying it continued to encourage full disclosures “so we can all understand what transpired between the two governments.”
英国锡克教委员会(Sikh Council U.K.)发表声明对调查表示欢迎，称该委员会依然鼓励完全披露，“好让我们大家都能了解，两国政府之间发生了什么事情。”