LONDON — The British government said on Monday that it would provide 2 billion pounds, or about $3.1 billion, in state aid for a nuclear power station planned for Hinkley Point in southwest England.
伦敦——英国政府周一宣布，将为一座核电站提供20亿英镑（约合198亿元人民币）的国家资助。该核电站计划建在位于英格兰西南的欣克利角(Hinkley Point)。
The announcement of financial support — which was made by George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, on a visit to China — appeared to be a confidence-building measure aimed at wrapping up a deal, years in gestation, to build Britain’s first nuclear plant since the mid-1990s.
提供财政支持的决定是由正在中国访问的英国财政大臣乔治·奥斯本(George Osborne)宣布的。这似乎是一种建立信心的手段，意在敲定一项酝酿多年的交易，建造英国自1990年代中期以来的第一座核电站。
“They are edging toward trying to sign a deal, but it is taking a long time,” said Antony Froggatt, a nuclear analyst at Chatham House, a London research organization.
“他们在缓慢推动交易的达成，但这已经花了太长时间了，”安东尼·弗罗加(Antony Froggatt)说。弗罗加是伦敦研究机构查塔姆研究所(Chatham House)核能领域的分析师。
The British government said that it expected EDF, the French state-controlled utility leading the project, to make a final decision later this year to go ahead with the plant. If EDF moves forward, it will be supported by two Chinese companies, China General Nuclear Corporation and China National Nuclear Corporation, the government said. Mr. Osborne has been courting Chinese companies to help finance the new Hinkley Point station, which will cost at least £16 billion.
英国政府表示，期望领导该项目的法国电力集团(EDF)，能在今年晚些时候做出最终决定，推进工厂的建设。法国公用事业企业EDF由法国政府控股。如果EDF决定推进，将会得到中国广核集团和中国核工业集团这两家中国企业的支持，英国政府表示。奥斯本一直在争取中国企业为欣克利角的新核电站提供资金，该核电站至少需要耗资160亿英镑。
“I am delighted to announce this guarantee for Hinkley Point today and to be in China to discuss their investments in Britain’s nuclear industry,” Mr. Osborne said in a statement.
“今天我很高兴地宣布对欣克利角的资金支持，也很高兴能在中国讨论中方对英国核工业的投资，”奥斯本在声明中说。
In trying to build nuclear plants, Britain is bucking the trend in the West. In the wake of the 2011 Fukushima disaster in Japan, Germany and other Western nations decided to gradually phase out nuclear power. Few plants are under construction in America and Western Europe, and two of those, in Finland and France, have encountered long delays and huge cost overruns.
在试图建造核电站这方面，英国与西方背道而驰。在2011年日本福岛核灾难之后，德国和其他西方国家决定逐渐淘汰核能。美国和西欧在建的核电站寥寥无几，其中在芬兰和法国的两座核电站，遭遇了长期的工期延迟和巨大的预算超支。
Despite such problems, Britain strongly backs construction of new nuclear plants. It views nuclear energy as a low-carbon source of power generation useful for meeting its targets to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. It also worries about keeping the lights on, as its nuclear power plants — which produced about 19 percent of Britain’s electricity last year — age and regulations force utilities to close coal-fired plants.
尽管有这些问题，英国仍大力支持建设新的核电站。英国将核能看作一种低碳的发电方式，因而对达到其二氧化碳减排目标有帮助。英国去年消耗的电力有19%来自核能，由于核电站逐步老化，而且有法规要求电力企业关停火电厂，英国也在担忧能否满足国民的电力需求。
With British utilities lacking the expertise and financial strength to build a nuclear plant, the government has turned to EDF, which is backed by the French state. The British government has also signaled that it is open to other international financing, including from China and from state-controlled entities like sovereign wealth funds.
由于英国的电力企业缺少建设核电站的技术和财力，政府求助于由法国政府支持的EDF。英国政府也表示，对其他国际融资持开放态度，包括来自中国的投资，以及来自国有实体（如主权财富基金）的投资。
Hinkley Point would provide an opening for Chinese companies to begin taking an international role in the industry. China leads the world in plants under construction at home, but its nuclear industry has only limited experience outside of China.
欣克利角能为中国企业提供一个开始在核电行业扮演国际角色的机会。中国国内在建核电站的数量领先于全世界，但其核工业在海外只有有限的经验。
The British effort is being closely watched by policy makers around the world and has attracted widespread interest. Along with EDF, other nuclear suppliers like Toshiba and Hitachi are pursuing British projects.
英国的尝试受到了全世界政策制定者的密切关注，并且吸引了广泛的兴趣。除了EDF之外，东芝(Toshiba)、日立(Hitachi)等核电技术供应商也正在争取英国的项目。
The British government is not only offering financing to help with the construction but has guaranteed EDF a much higher price for the electricity it generates than current market rates. The government also says that it may increase financial support for the plant as the project progresses. Last year, the European Union approved Britain’s use of state aid to finance the plant.
英国政府不仅提供资金帮助建设，还向EDF承诺了高出目前市场价很多的电价。政府还说，随着项目的进展，可能对核电站增加资金支持。去年，欧盟批准了英国使用政府资金，来为核电站提供支持的做法。
The government says the plant, which will be built near an existing nuclear station on the Severn Estuary, will create 25,000 jobs. It is expected to generate 7 percent of Britain’s power.
这座核电站将修建在塞文河口(Severn Estuary)一座现有核电站的附近。政府表示，新建的核电站未来会创造2.5万个就业岗位，预计产出英国7%的电力。
Still, Britain’s effort to build nuclear plants has proceeded at what seems a glacial pace. The Hinkley Point project is already several years behind its original schedule.
然而，英国建设核电站的努力，进展似乎十分缓慢。欣克利角项目的进度已经比原计划落后了好几年。
Centrica, a British utility, walked away from an option to take a 20 percent stake in Hinkley Point and another nuclear plant, citing frustration over delay and costs.
英国公用事业企业森特里克集团(Centrica)由于对项目的拖延和成本感到失望，放弃了在欣克利角核电站及另外一家核电站持股20%的选择。