OTTAWA, Ontario — The trouble with paper money, aside from the fact that we spend it too easily and governments often print too much of it, is that it wears out too fast — especially in balmy places with high humidity.
安大略省渥太华——纸质钞票引发的烦恼，除了我们花得太快，政府常常印得太多，就是太容易磨损了——尤其是在空气湿度较大、气候温和的地方。
Bills made of plastic, on the other hand, do not have that problem and can be manufactured with sophisticated security features to vex counterfeiters.
而塑料钞票就不存在这个问题，并且可以在制造过程中采用复杂的防伪技术。
Polymer bank notes, as they are called, are catching on around the world, despite skepticism from consumers wherever they are introduced.
尽管在刚推出时往往会受到当地消费者的质疑，但这种所谓的“聚合物钞票”正在世界各国推广开来。
In what is the biggest boost to date, the Bank of England announced on Wednesday that it would adopt polymer notes. The Bank of England said that the new notes, in 5- and 10-pound denominations, would be harder to counterfeit.
英国央行英格兰银行(Bank of England)周三宣布，将推出聚合物钞票，这是迄今为止对聚合物钞票的最大推动。英格兰银行表示，新钞票将包括5英镑和10英镑两种面值，更加难以伪造。
Last month, Canada abandoned the last of its paper currency in favor of plastic money, following the example of Australia and about two dozen other countries.
上个月，加拿大淘汰了最后一批纸质钞票，取而代之的是塑料钞票，此前，澳大利亚和约20多个其他国家已经这么做了。
Christopher Jeffery, editor of Central Banking Publications, a trade magazine based in London, said that there seemed to be no stopping the move to polymer. And that will only accelerate when Britain’s “fivers” and other notes join in beginning in 2016.
伦敦的行业杂志《央行杂志》(Central Banking Publications)的编辑克里斯托弗·杰佛里(Christopher Jeffery)说，采用塑料钞票的潮流似乎势不可挡。到了2016年英国开始发行五英镑和其他面值的塑料钞票时，这一趋势只可能会进一步加速。
“Pending some kind of catastrophe, it’s going to be more of a continued trend toward using polymer,” Mr. Jeffery said.
杰佛里说，“除非出现某种灾难性的意外，否则改用聚合物钞票的趋势会持续下去。”
The United States remains a notable holdout. Officials at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing have said that they have looked into switching to plastic, but a spokeswoman said there were no current discussions.
不过，美国仍然不打算参与其中。铸印局(Bureau of Engraving and Printing)的管理者们曾经表示，他们已经研究了采用塑料货币的可能性，但该机构的一名发言人说，目前没有进行相关讨论。
The growing acceptance of polymer notes has lured the largest printer of bank notes in the world, the British company De La Rue, into the business. After four years of development, its first polymer bills were printed this year for Fiji.
推行聚合物材料货币的国家越来越多，这也吸引了世界上最大的印钞造币公司——英国德纳罗公司(De La Rue)的加入。经过长达四年的研发，该公司今年为斐济印制了第一批聚合物钞票。
In the last year, Mauritius and Morocco have also started to use plastic bills. Polymer has been particularly popular in the tropics, because paper bills wear out faster in high humidity. The Mexican central bank estimates that although polymer notes cost about twice as much to make, they last about 3.5 times longer.
去年，毛里求斯和摩洛哥也开始使用塑料货币。聚合物钞票在热带国家特别流行，因为纸币在高湿度的环境下磨损得更快。墨西哥央行估计，尽管聚合物钞票的制作成本是纸币的两倍，使用时间则是纸币的3.5倍。
Richard Wall, the director of currency at the Bank of Canada, dismissed claims that polymer bills melt after being left inside cars on hot summer days or become brittle and snap in extreme cold. He said temperatures that would melt the bills would also melt interior plastics in a car. Tests show that polymer bills can withstand temperatures as high as 284 degrees Fahrenheit and as low as minus 103.
加拿大银行(Bank of Canada)货币部门负责人理查德·沃尔(Richard Wall)称，与传闻不同，在炎热的夏日里放置车内的聚合物钞票不会融化，它在极寒天气也不会变脆或折断。他说，如果车内的温度能融化这种钞票，那也就能融化汽车内部的塑料部件。测试结果显示，聚合物钞票可以耐受的温度最高为摄氏140度，最低为摄氏零下75度。
(In an unscientific test using a household oven set to 280 degrees Fahrenheit, a new Canadian 5 dollar note did not melt. But after eight minutes, it started to smell bad, shrink substantially and curl markedly. Its translucent security features also became opaque blobs.
经过非科学实验证实，在温度大约为摄氏138度的家用烤箱中，一张新的5加元钞票不会融化。但是八分钟之后，钞票开始发出难闻气味，并开始缩小，出现明显卷曲。其用于防伪的透明图案也变成了模糊的一团。
(Mr. Wall also dismissed a widely held belief in Canada that the new money was infused with a maple syrup scent.)
（沃尔还说，新钞票并没有像加拿大人普遍认为的那样，加入了枫树糖浆的味道。）
Blind people say they like the polymer money because embossed marks that help them identify denominations do not wear away.
盲人们说，他们喜欢聚合物钞票，因为这种钞票上帮助他们识别面值的凸饰不会被轻易磨掉。
One factor trumped everything when it came to Canada’s decision to use polymer. “It was all about improving the security of bank notes,” Mr. Wall said. “We had a fairly substantial level of counterfeiting in 2004.” Polymer currency was first introduced here, as 50 dollar and 100 dollar bills, in 2011.
当加拿大决定使用聚合物印制钞票时，有一个因素压倒了其他一切。“这都是为了增强钞票的安全性，”沃尔说，“2004年，我们的货币造假问题相当严重。”2011年，聚合物货币首次被引入这里，分别是面值50加元和100加元的钞票。
While Canada had already incorporated various holographic security devices in its paper bills, polymer enabled more complex protection. The new Canadian bills have a transparent window that contains large, color-shifting images of Parliament buildings and a portrait of Queen Elizabeth, Canada’s formal head of state, or famous Canadian politicians. Small metallic details, including the note’s domination, also swirl around in the window. A circle of numbers appears in a second tiny window shaped like a maple leaf, the national symbol.
加拿大已在自己的纸币中融入了各种全息安全手段，但聚合物让更复杂的保护措施成为可能。加拿大发行的新钞票上有一个透明窗，透明窗区域有国会大厦的大幅变色图案，以及加拿大国家元首伊丽莎白女王(Queen Elizabeth)，或是加拿大知名政治家的头像。一些闪烁着金属光泽的小字环绕在这个透明区域四周，例如钞票的发行银行的名字。另一个枫叶形状的小透明窗里显现出一圈数字。枫叶是加拿大的象征。
The success that Canada and other countries have had in warding off counterfeiters prompted the Bank of England to consider plastic currency, according to Victoria Cleland, the head of the bank’s notes division. “With bank notes, you want to understand how things have worked in true-life testing,” Ms. Cleland said.
英格兰银行钞票部门负责人维多利亚·克莱兰(Victoria Cleland)说，加拿大和其他国家在打击假币制造者方面取得的成功促使英格兰银行考虑使用塑料货币。“谈到钞票，你需要了解它在现实生活的测试中表现得怎么样，” 克莱兰说。
The Bank of England made its decision on polymer notes after a long process in which the public was able to view and feel the bills during events at several malls and universities. The bank said 87 percent of the people it talked to were supportive of the move.
英格兰银行是在经历了一个漫长的过程后才决定使用聚合物钞票的，在这个过程中，公众可以在多家商场和大学举办的一些活动中查看和感受聚合物钞票。英格兰银行称，与银行交流过的87%的人支持这一举动。
The first polymer note in England — a 5 pound bill — will be released in 2016 and will feature Winston Churchill. A year later, Jane Austen will appear on a 10 pound note.
英格兰第一版聚合物钞票——面值为5英镑——将于2016年发行，温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)的头像将出现在钞票上。再过一年，简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)的头像将被印在面值10英镑的钞票上。
Not everyone already using the new money is enthusiastic. About a mile south of the future new home of Canadian Bank Note Company, which prints the country’s bills, is Di Rienzo Grocery and Deli, where about 300 sandwiches are snapped up each day by a steady stream of customers for 5 dollars apiece — cash only.
但并非所有使用新钞票的人都喜欢它。加拿大印钞公司(Canadian Bank Note Company)负责为该国印制钞票，在它即将入住的新址以南大约1英里（约合1.6公里）是迪·里恩佐杂货熟食店(Di Rienzo Grocery and Deli)，在那里，每天都有一群稳定的顾客以每个5美元的价格将大约300个三明治抢购一空。该店只接受现金。
In the two years since the Bank of Canada first introduced polymer bills, Paolo Di Rienzo, the owner of the impossibly crowded and slightly chaotic deli, has developed a long list of grievances. He says the bills stick to one another. Yet he also says their slippery surface allows them to slip easily, unnoticed, out of pockets. The light, springy bills sometimes leap out of the cash register, according to Mr. Di Rienzo. And, he says, polymer does not really fold.
在加拿大银行首次引入聚合物钞票后的两年里，这家异常拥挤且稍微有些混乱的熟食店的老板保罗·迪·里恩佐(Paolo Di Rienzo)产生了大量意见。他说，聚合物钞票会粘在一起。他还说，这些钞票表面光滑，因此很容易在不知不觉间从兜里滑落出来。据他说，质量轻且有弹性的钞票有时会飘出收银机。而且，他还说，聚合物钞票无法真正折叠。
“You have to really watch when they give you the money and when you give the money back,” Mr. Di Rienzo said. “The other ones were much better, the regular ones.”
“在顾客递给你钱，或是你把钱递回去时，必须真的非常小心，”迪·里恩佐说，“其他普通纸币就好多了。”
Overhearing Mr. Di Rienzo while waiting for a sandwich, Domenico Nicolo, a taxi driver, pulled out a 100 dollar polymer note and began rubbing what he said was its excessively slippery surface. “A lot of people complain about them,” Mr. Nicolo said of his customers, adding that he now checks money much more carefully for bills that have stuck together.
无意中听到迪·里恩佐的话后，等着买三明治的出租车司机多梅尼科·尼科洛(Domenico Nicolo)取出一张100元的聚合物钞票，开始揉搓他所说的过于光滑的钞票表面。“好多人抱怨这一点，” 尼科洛说到自己的顾客时表示。他还补充说，自己现在对钱检查得更仔细了，因为钞票会粘在一起。
The only improvement Mr. Nicolo could cite was polymer’s ability to survive accidental trips through washing machines.
尼科洛能说出来的唯一优点是，在不小心被扔进洗衣机后，聚合物钞票还能完好无损。