SAN FRANCISCO — A British intelligence agency collected video webcam images — many of them sexually explicit — from millions of Yahoo users, regardless of whether they were suspected of illegal activity, according to accounts of documents leaked by Edward J. Snowden.
旧金山——根据爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露文件的描述，一家英国情报机构对大量雅虎用户的视频摄像头图像进行了收集，无论这些用户是否存在从事非法活动的嫌疑，而且其中有许多露骨的性画面。
The surveillance effort operated by Britain’s Government Communications Headquarters, or GCHQ, was code-named Optic Nerve. Images from Yahoo webcam chats were captured in bulk through the agency’s fiber-optic cable taps and saved to a GCHQ database.
英国政府通讯总部（Government Communications Headquarters，简称GCHQ）进行的这项监控行动代号为“视神经”(Optic Nerve)。该机构利用安装在光缆上的监听装置大范围抓取雅虎视频聊天的画面，而后保存在一个GCHQ数据库中。
It is unclear how much of the data was shared with American officials at the National Security Agency, though the British ran queries of the data using a search tool provided by the N.S.A. called XKeyscore, according to a report on Thursday by The Guardian.
据《卫报》(The Guardian)周四的一篇报道称，尚不清楚这些数据有多少曾分享给美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA），不过英国情报机构在查询数据时使用的是NSA提供的一种叫XKeyscore的搜索工具。
The report did not indicate whether the agency also collected webcam images from similar services, such as Google Hangouts or Microsoft’s Skype. The Guardian did say the British intelligence agency was studying the possibilities of using the cameras in Microsoft’s Kinect devices, which are used with its Xbox game consoles, to spy on users.
《卫报》报道没有提到GCHQ是否收集了其他类似服务的摄像头图像，比如谷歌环聊(Google Hangouts)或微软的Skype。不过它的确提到该机构正在研究通过微软的Kinect设备监视用户的可能性，这种设备是和微软Xbox游戏主机一同使用的。
Because the British agency lacked the technical means to filter out the content of British or American citizens, and because it faces fewer legal restrictions than the N.S.A. in the United States, documents show that the GCHQ was collecting vast amounts of webcam images. In one six-month period in 2008, the agency collected webcam images from more than 1.8 million Yahoo user accounts globally, including those of Americans, according to the Guardian report.
由于缺乏技术手段，GCHQ无法将英国或美国公民的内容过滤出去，再加上它受到的法律限制不像NSA在美国那么多，文件显示该机构收集的摄像头图像规模极大。《卫报》报道称，GCHQ在2008年的六个月时间里，收集了全球超过180万雅虎用户账号的摄像头图像，其中包括美国用户。
The British agency restricted its collection by saving one image every five minutes from users’ feeds, partly to avoid overwhelming its servers. It also restricted its image searches to so-called metadata, information that tells analysts what content the files contain, such as the sender and receiver’s usernames, file types, time, date and duration of their webcam chat.
GCHQ将画面收集量限制在每五分钟保存一个账号的一张图片，这在一定程度上是为了避免服务器负载过大。此外该机构还将对图片的搜索限制在所谓的元数据上，这些信息能告诉分析人员相关文件内包含什么内容，比如发送方和接收方的用户名、文件类型、他们视频聊天的时间、日期和长度。
But analysts were still able to view the contents of webcam chats between users whose usernames matched those of surveillance targets. One document instructs analysts that they are allowed to view “webcam images associated with similar Yahoo identifiers to your known target.”
但如果用户名和监控目标相符，分析人员还是可以查看视频聊天内容的。一份文件告知分析人员，他们可以查看“雅虎账户名与已知目标相似的用户的相关摄像头图像”。
The agency also apparently experimented with facial-recognition technology, which searched webcam images for faces resembling those of GCHQ targets. One undated document shows that the agency shuttered this capability. It was unclear if or when it was resurrected. It is also unclear if the N.S.A. also had access to the metadata and images.
看起来该机构还试验了面部识别技术，对摄像头图像进行搜索，找到与GCHQ目标的容貌相仿的面孔。一份没有注明日期的文件显示，该机构关闭了这个功能。尚不清楚它是否或何时会恢复。也不清楚NSA是否也能获取到这些元数据和图像。
Yahoo said in a statement on Thursday that it was not aware of the program and expressed outrage at published reports.
雅虎在周四发表声明称，公司并不知晓该项目的存在，并就已发表的报道表达了愤慨。
“This report, if true, represents a whole new level of violation of our users’ privacy that is completely unacceptable and we strongly call on the world’s governments to reform surveillance law consistent with the principles we outlined in December,” the company said in a statement. “We are committed to preserving our users’ trust and security and continue our efforts to expand encryption across all of our services.”
“该报道如若属实，将是我们的用户隐私受到的一次空前严重的侵犯，那是完全不能接受的，我们强烈呼吁各国政府改革监控法律，与我们在12月阐述的原则保持一致，”该公司在一份声明中说。“我们会尽心尽责地保护用户的信任和安全，继续努力对我们的所有服务采取加密手段。”
Microsoft also said it had never heard of the surveillance program or the British government’s interest in using the Kinect camera for spying. “However, we’re concerned about any reports of governments surreptitiously collecting private customer data,” the company said in a statement. “That’s why in December we initiated a broad effort to expand encryption across our services and are advocating for legal reforms.”
微软也表示从未听说该监控项目，并且不知道英国政府有意将Kinect摄像头用于监视。“然而，我们对有关政府暗地收集用户私人数据的任何报道都十分关切，”公司在一份声明中说。“这也是为什么我们在12月发起了一次大规模的行动，在我们的所有服务中展开加密，还在倡导进行法律改革。”
Companies like Yahoo, Google and Microsoft that operate Internet services send vast amounts of data — including video and webcam chats — through the fiber-optic lines between their data centers around the world. After recent disclosures about government tapping of some such lines, all three companies have said they are working to encrypt those links between their data centers to thwart spying.
通过连接世界各地数据中心的光缆线路，雅虎、谷歌和微软等提供互联网服务的公司会发送海量的数据——包括视频和摄像头聊天。近来政府对这些线路的窃听被披露后，三家公司都表示正在设法对数据中心之间的传输进行加密，以阻止窃听。
Yahoo has said that encryption will be in place for all of its services by March 31. Google has encrypted its video chat services, including Hangouts, since at least 2010.
雅虎已经表示，这种加密将在3月31日以前部署到所有服务中。谷歌至少在2010年就已经开始对包括环聊在内的视频聊天服务进行加密。
In response to earlier concerns about potential government surveillance of the Kinect camera, Microsoft said last year that it would allow users to turn it off. It also said it did not give any government broad access to Skype data or security technologies.
由于较早前担心政府可能会监控Kinect摄像头，微软去年曾表示会允许用户关闭摄像头。公司还称，没有允许任何政府大规模获取Skype数据或安全技术。
Collecting and storing content from video sources has long posed a dilemma for the N.S.A. and its intelligence counterparts because files are often larger and more difficult to store. Also, the video files often contain pornography, family videos, commercials and content of questionable intelligence value.
收集和存储来自视频源的数据一直以来都令NSA及其他情报机构感到进退两难，因为这些文件往往更大，存储也更困难。此外视频文件经常包含色情内容、家庭录像、广告，以及情报价值堪忧的内容。
In its article, The Guardian described one presentation in which GCHQ analysts discuss the possibility in spying on webcam traffic from Microsoft’s Xbox 360’s Kinect camera, claiming it generated “fairly normal webcam traffic” and was being considered for part of a wider surveillance program.
《卫报》在报道中提到了一份GCHQ陈述文档，分析人员在其中探讨了对微软Xbox 360的Kinect摄像头通信进行窃听的可能性，称这种摄像头会生成“相当正常的摄像头通信”，正在考虑将其纳入一个更广泛的监控项目中。
Previous disclosures from documents released by Mr. Snowden show that the N.S.A. was actively exploring the video capabilities of game consoles for surveillance, and that N.S.A. analysts infiltrated virtual games like World of Warcraft and Second Life to snoop on targets.
此前由斯诺登公布的文件中披露，NSA在积极探索利用游戏机的视频功能进行监控的可能性，NSA分析人员曾渗透到《魔兽世界》(World of Warcraft)和《第二人生》(Second Life)等虚拟游戏中窥探目标。
A GCHQ spokesman cited “a longstanding policy that we do not comment on intelligence matters.”
一名GCHQ发言人表示，“一项存在已久的政策要求我们不能就情报事务置评。”
“Furthermore,” the spokesman, who declined to be identified, said, “all of GCHQ’s work is carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework which ensures that our activities are authorized, necessary and proportionate, and that there is rigorous oversight, including from the secretary of state, the Interception and Intelligence Services commissioners and the Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee. All our operational processes rigorously support this position.”
“此外，”这名拒绝公开身份的发言人说，“GCHQ的所有工作都是在一个严格的法律和政策框架内进行的，这个框架确保我们的活动是经过授权的、必要的和适度的，并且是受到严格监管的，监管者包括大臣、窃听和情报局(Interception and Intelligence Services)局长和议会情报和安全委员会(Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee)。我们的所有行动程序都严格遵循这种安排。”