LONDON — Following a tumultuous, unpredictable snap election, Prime Minister Theresa May, a Conservative, appeared on the verge of losing her overall parliamentary majority, according to a national exit poll released just after voting ended on Thursday night.
伦敦——周四晚上投票结束后的英国出口民调显示，在一场动荡的、无法预测的提前选举之后，首相特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)领导的保守党处在了失去议会多数席位的边缘。
If confirmed by the actual vote count, the result would be a major setback for May. She called this election three years early, expecting to cruise to a smashing victory that would win her a mandate to see Britain through the long and difficult negotiations with the European Union about Britain’s exit from the bloc.
如果实际票数和民调一致，这个选举结果对梅来说就是一个重大挫折。她提前三年进行这次选举，本来是希望在议会中大获全胜，获得带领英国进行长期艰苦的脱欧谈判的授权。
According to the exit poll, which has been a good guide to the outcome of recent elections, May seemed to have lost the extraordinary gamble she made in calling the election — and Britain may be on track for a hung Parliament. Poll results found that the Conservatives would remain the largest party, but they were on track for only 314 seats, down from 331 won in 2015, and 12 votes short of a majority.
但是从此次的出口民调来看——它对最近一些选举结果的预测非常具有参考价值——梅似乎已经在她呼吁提前选举的豪赌中成为了输家——英国可能会出现一个无多数党的议会。民调显示保守党仍将是最大的党派，但是他们在2017年可能只会获得314个席位，少于2015年的331个席位，距离多数票还差12席。
The opposition Labour Party, led by Jeremy Corbyn, appeared on track for 266 seats, up 34. And the Scottish National Party is also projected to be down to 34 seats from 56.
由杰里米·科尔宾(Jeremy Corbyn)领导的反对派工党(Labour Party)有望获得266个席位，增加34个。苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)的席位预计将从56个席位减少到34个。
If the poll is accurate, Britons confounded expectations and the betting markets once again. Indeed, once again, Britain could be faced with renewed political uncertainty as it soon must begin negotiations with leaders in Brussels on withdrawing from the European Union.
如果这个民调是准确的，那么英国人再次出乎了人们和博彩市场的预期。的确，英国有可能再一次面临着政治上的不确定性，因为它很快就不得不在布鲁塞尔与各国领导人进行脱欧谈判。
Official results are expected to begin arriving within an hour or so, with the final outcome not likely known until early Friday morning. But the British pound fell sharply after the exit poll projected that the Conservatives would not win a majority.
官方结果预计将在一个小时左右后陆续出现，最终结果可能要等到周五凌晨。在出口民调预计保守党不会赢得多数之后，英镑汇率大幅下滑。
Within seconds of the exit poll being broadcast, the pound lost more than 2 cents against the dollar, falling from $1.2955 to $1.2752.
在出口民调公布几秒钟后，英镑兑美元就跌了2美分多，从1.2955美元跌至1.2752美元。
Given the two terrorist attacks that took place during the campaign, security was tight on Thursday as Britons voted, with a heavy police presence.
鉴于在竞选活动期间发生的两次恐怖主义袭击事件，周四英国投票时戒备森严，有大批警察到场。