British voters are heading to the polls Thursday, and it looks as if it’s going to be a nail-biter. Political prediction markets suggest that it’s basically a 50-50 bet as to whether the Conservative prime minister, David Cameron, will serve another term or be ousted by Labour’s leader, Ed Miliband. I can recall very few elections where the bookies couldn’t pick a favorite by election eve.
英国选民周四将前往投票站，而目前看来选情颇为胶着。政治预测市场认为，来自保守党的现任首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)大概有一半的几率获得连任，也有一半的几率被工党党魁埃德·米利班德(Ed Miliband)拉下马。在我的记忆中，没有几次选举会像现在这样，到了投票前夜，博彩业还选不出热门。
The traditional two-party system is breaking down in Britain, which makes the outcome more uncertain because it renders traditional approaches to predicting the outcome less useful. Multiparty elections bring a type of complexity that traditional polling — and computer models based on polling — are ill-equipped to deal with.
英国传统的两党制正在瓦解，使选举结果的不确定性增大，因为这让预测结果的传统工具变得不那么有效了。传统民调——以及基于民调的计算机模型——无法很好地处理多党选举带来的复杂性。
Voters become less predictable when they face more than two plausible candidates, because they might vote strategically in an effort not to waste their vote. The logic is that if you expect your candidate to come in third, you can make a difference by opting instead to cast your ballot for the least bad choice among the two more likely candidates. Consequently, you may prefer one candidate, but end up voting for another. As much as polls try to pick up whom voters intend to vote for, people are still likely to tell pollsters whom they prefer.
当选民面对不止两名有望胜选的候选人时，他们的行为就不那么好预测了，因为他们可能会为了不浪费手中的选票而进行策略性的选择。这背后的逻辑是，假如你觉得自己青睐的候选人会排名第三，那么，你可以转而在另两名可能更靠前的候选人中挑出不怎么讨厌的那位来投，从而左右选举结果。这样的话，也许就会出现你心仪一名候选人最后却投给另一个人的情况。尽管民调在努力获取选民的投票意向，但人们还是很可能透露的是自己偏好的候选人。
And the dynamics can get complicated, as strategic voters will choose based not just on whom they want to see elected, but also on whether they think that candidate has a chance. In turn, their assessment of whether a candidate has a chance depends on whom they believe other voters will vote for, which depends on whom those voters believe other voters believe will win. It’s not just beliefs about beliefs that matter, but beliefs about beliefs about beliefs, and so on. It’s turtles all the way down. Abrupt swings in voter sentiment can occur when any hint that a candidate’s support is fading leads others to jump ship, too.
由于进行策略性投票的选民不仅会考虑自己希望看到谁当选，还会琢磨那名候选人是否有当选的可能性，事情就变得复杂起来。而且，他们对某名候选人当选可能性的评估基于的是自己对其他选民投票意向的判断，而这又取决于那些选民再对其他人的判断的判断。其中牵涉的，不光是对判断的判断，还有对判断的判断的判断，没完没了。这情形，就好比是认为无穷无尽的海龟驮着地球的假说。当有任何迹象表明某名候选人支持率在下降从而导致其他人转变阵营的时候，选民的情绪就可能产生剧烈波动。
Then there’s the problem of figuring out who will be the next prime minister, which is not decided directly by the voters, but rather by the members of Parliament they elect. The problem is that there’s a less than one-in-ten chance that any party will win a clear majority. And so the next prime minister won’t be decided on Election Day, but rather in the subsequent rounds of horse-trading, as the major parties seek to find partners willing to form a governing coalition. Pollsters are obviously silent on how this will play out, even as traders in political prediction markets are gaming different possibilities.
除此之外，还有搞清谁会成为下任首相的问题，因为这并不直接取决于选民，而是他们选出的下议院议员。问题在于，这次选举由一党赢得简单多数的可能性不到10%。因此，下任首相不会在选举日当天揭晓，而要等到接下来好几轮的政治交易，届时大党会去寻找愿与自身联合组阁的伙伴。在这件事情将如何展开上，民调机构显然陷入了沉默，不过政治预测市场上的玩家则在推演各种可能性。
Despite all this complexity, it is likely that more than $150 million has been wagered on the election.
尽管错综复杂，但有关此次选举的下注金额很可能会超过1.5亿美元（约合9.5亿元人民币）。
So here’s what the prediction markets are telling us. The Conservatives have more than a four-in-five chance to win the most votes and the most seats. Even so, they are seen as having less than a one-in-ten chance of being able to form a majority without coalition partners. This is partly because of the Scottish National Party, which is now likely to become the third-largest party, after picking up nearly all of the traditionally Labour-voting seats in Scotland. It is expected to throw its support behind the Labour Party.
那么，下面这些就是预测市场告诉我们的信息：保守党有80%以上的几率能赢得最多的选民票和下院最多的席位。虽说如此，市场认为它仅有不到10%的几率能赢得一半以上的席位，从而无需联合组阁。这种形势要部分归因于苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)。目前看来，该党很可能会夺得工党在苏格兰的几乎所有传统席位，从而跃升为第三大党。预计它将支持工党。
Nick Clegg’s Liberal Democrats — the Conservatives’ current coalition partners — are expected to lose a lot of seats to both the Labour Party and the Conservatives, as well as in Scotland. The Liberal Democrats could potentially make a coalition partner with either major party.
尼克·克莱格(Nick Clegg)领导的自由民主党(Liberal Democrats)目前与保守党联合组阁。不过，预计它将丢掉许多席位，而工党和保守党均会从中得利；它在苏格兰的席位也将大量流失。自由民主党有可能与两大党中的任何一个结盟，组成联合政府。
Add in the minor players — the Welsh independence party Plaid Cymru; Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party and Social Democratic and Labour Party; the right-wing populist UK Independence Party; and possibly the Greens or other independents — and a number of possible coalitions emerge. Many of these potential coalitions go Labour’s way, meaning that it’s as likely as the Conservatives to form the next government.
再加上一些小党——主张威尔士独立的威尔士党(Plaid Cymru)；北爱尔兰的民主统一党(Democratic Unionist Party)和社会民主工党(Social Democratic and Labour Party)；右翼民粹主义政党英国独立党(UK Independence Party)；或许还有绿党和其他独立议员——这就涌现出了为数不少的联盟可能性。在这些可能性中，很多有利于工党。这就意味着，它组建下届政府的几率与保守党不相上下。