Royal-watchers have a new reason to celebrate. The British monarchy is set to stage its next royal wedding — starring an American.
关注王室的人又有可以庆祝的理由了。英国王室又要举行王室婚礼了——这次主角是一个美国人。
Prince Harry, who is fifth in line to the throne, and Meghan Markle, an actress from Los Angeles, went public with their engagement on Monday and are scheduled to wed next spring.
周一，英国王位第五顺位继承人哈里王子及来自洛杉矶的女演员梅根·马克尔(Meghan Markle)宣布订婚，婚礼计划在明年春天举行。
Like previous royal nuptials, it is expected to be an eye-catching spectacle of pageantry, observing centuries of tradition carried through generations of knot-tying. But the coming union has also inspired feverish commentary that highlights the modernizing of the British monarchy.
与以往的王室婚礼一样，他们的婚礼也将是一场引人瞩目的壮观盛典，并遵循数个世纪来的婚礼传统。但这一即将到来的结合也引发了热烈评论，突显了英国王室的现代化。
The couple’s relationship has been scrutinized since the news that they were dating emerged over a year ago. Last year, Prince Harry lashed out at the racial undertones of British tabloid coverage of Ms. Markle, who is biracial and divorced, as not being British enough for him.
自一年多以前，两人约会的新闻出现后，他们的关系就一直经受着外界审视的目光。去年，哈里王子就英国小报关于马克尔的报道中所隐含的种族意味进行了抨击。马克尔是黑白混血，离过婚，对他们来说，她不够英式。
As part of its coverage on Monday, the BBC ran an item asking other interracial couples in Britain to weigh in. The Daily Mail ran the couple’s engagement photo opportunity past a “body language expert” who deduced that Prince Harry, 33, was “terribly awkward” and that the “easy confidence” of Ms. Markle, 36, would be good for him.
作为其周一报道的一部分，英国广播公司(BBC)有条报道邀请了英国跨种族情侣参与采访。《每日邮报》(The Daily Mail)借发布这一对情侣的订婚照片之机请来一位“肢体语言专家”，此人表示，33岁的哈里王子“十分不协调”，而36岁的梅根·马克尔则“轻松自在”，跟他在一起正合适。
Here is a look at other royal weddings and some of the scrutiny that surrounded them.
下面来看看其他的王室婚礼，以及他们所受到的一些审视。
William and Catherine
威廉和凯瑟琳
Prince William and Catherine, the former Kate Middleton, were married in April 2011. Viewing estimates for the ceremony hovered in the three billion range, with more than a million lining the route of the royal procession. Wedding fever carried across the ocean, with many American businesses and restaurants holding events to commemorate the nuptials.
威廉王子(Prince William)和凯瑟琳（Catherine，原名凯特·米德尔顿[Kate Middleton]）于2011年4月结婚。估计约有30亿人通过电视观看了仪式，至少100万人等在王室仪仗队行经的道路两旁。婚礼的热浪也席卷了大洋彼岸。在美国，有许多公司、餐馆举办了活动，庆祝这次婚礼。
The couple met when they were students at St. Andrew’s in Scotland, and Kate’s wedding to Prince William was unusual in the context of the royal family, because she was a commoner. Their marriage was seen as an example of how members of a new generation of royals were taking spouses of choice rather than of royal lineage after the marriage of Prince Charles and Princess Diana ended in divorce.
这对夫妻在学生时代相识于苏格兰的圣安德鲁斯大学(University of St. Andrews)，他们的结合在英国王室非同寻常，因为凯特是一介平民。在查尔斯王子(Prince Charles)和戴安娜王妃(Princess Diana)以离婚结束了他们的婚姻之后，凯特与威廉王子的婚姻被视为新一代王室成员自己选择心仪的配偶、而非只看王室血统的典范。
William and Catherine are expecting the birth of their third child in April.
威廉和凯特将于4月迎来第三个孩子。
Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles
查尔斯和卡米拉
Charles, the Prince of Wales, and Camilla Parker Bowles were married in April 2005. It was the second marriage for both, and each had two children from the first marriage, all of whom attended the civil service and church blessing in Windsor.
威尔士亲王查尔斯和卡米拉·帕克·鲍尔斯(Camilla Parker Bowles)于2005年4月结婚。两人均为二婚，上一段婚姻中两人都有两个孩子，他们都参加了在温莎举行的登记仪式与教堂祝福仪式。
The marriage made Camilla, his longtime mistress, the Duchess of Cornwall and wife to the heir of the throne. The wedding was a sign of how things had changed from the era when royals were not allowed to marry divorced people.
这段婚姻让查尔斯的多年情人卡米拉成为了康沃尔公爵夫人(Duchess of Cornwall)和王位继承人的妻子。这段婚姻标志着王室不能和离异人士结婚的时代已经变了。
Charles and Diana Spencer
查尔斯和戴安娜
Prince Charles’s first marriage, to Lady Diana Spencer in July 1981, was called the “wedding of the century” by the tabloids and watched by an estimated 750 million people worldwide.
查尔斯王子的第一段婚姻是与戴安娜·斯潘塞女爵(Lady Diana Spencer)的结合，这场1981年7月的婚礼被各路小报称作“世纪婚礼”，全世界大约有7.5亿人观看。
There were 2,500 guests inside St. Paul’s Cathedral, with 700 million television viewers around the world witnessing what The Times described as a “fairy tale come to life” when the 32-year-old prince, in naval uniform, married the 20-year-old daughter of an earl.
圣保罗大教堂(St. Paul's Cathedral)内的2500名宾客，以及全世界通过电视观看的7亿人见证了这场被《纽约时报》称为“童话成真”的婚礼——这位穿着海军制服的32岁王子，娶了一位20岁的伯爵女儿。
The marriage vaulted Lady Diana into the role of a national emissary for Britain as the Princess of Wales as she threw herself into charitable work worldwide. The couple had two sons, Prince William and Prince Harry.
这段婚姻使戴安娜女爵一跃成为了威尔士王妃，成为了英国的国家形象大使，她在世界各地投身于慈善工作。这对夫妻育有两子：威廉王子和哈里王子。
Prince Charles and Princess Diana separated in 1992 and divorced in 1996. Their union was overshadowed by Mrs. Parker Bowles’s relationship with Prince Charles, described by Princess Diana to a BBC interviewer in 1996 as “three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded.”
查尔斯王子和戴安娜王妃于1992年分居，1996年离婚。他们的结合一直被卡米拉和查尔斯王子的关系的阴影所笼罩。根据1996年戴安娜在接受英国广播公司采访时的描述，“这段婚姻里有三个人，有点挤。”
Princess Diana died in a car crash in Paris in 1997, setting off a flurry of news coverage worldwide.
戴安娜王妃1997年死于车祸，引来了全世界铺天盖地的新闻报道。
Margaret and Antony Armstrong-Jones
玛格丽特和安东尼·阿姆斯特朗-琼斯
Princess Margaret, the sister of Queen Elizabeth II, married Antony Armstrong-Jones in July 1960. Mr. Armstrong-Jones, a photographer, became the Earl of Snowdon. He took Princess Margaret’s official portrait in 1958, and they connected again at a dinner party and began a secret affair.
玛格丽特公主(Princess Margaret)是英国女王伊丽莎白二世的妹妹，在1960年7月与安东尼·阿姆斯特朗-琼斯(Antony Armstrong-Jones)结婚。摄影师安东尼·阿姆斯特朗-琼斯成为了斯诺登伯爵(Earl of Snowdon)。1958年，他为玛格丽特公主拍摄官方标准照，后来他们又在一次晚宴上相遇，开始了一段秘密恋情。
The union was seen by many as a breakthrough in class barriers — Mr. Armstrong-Jones was the first British commoner in four centuries to marry a king’s daughter.
他们的结合被很多人视为阶级障碍的突破——安东尼·阿姆斯特朗-琼斯是4个世纪以来第一位迎娶了国王女儿的英国平民。
Edward VIII and Wallis Warfield Simpson
爱德华八世与沃利斯·辛普森
King Edward VIII abdicated in December 1936 so he could marry his twice-divorced American mistress, Wallis Warfield Simpson.
1936年12月，国王爱德华八世(King Edward VIII)为了同离过两次婚的美国情妇沃利斯·沃菲尔德·辛普森(Wallis Warfield Simpson)结婚，放弃了王位。
The Church of England opposed the marriage at the time, but the king chose love over his royal duties, allowing his younger brother to take his place as King George VI. Edward and Ms. Simpson were married in 1937.
当时，英国圣公会(Church of England)反对这门婚姻，但国王为了爱情放弃了王室职责，让他的弟弟接替他成为乔治六世。爱德华和辛普森夫人于1937年结婚。