Prompted by publicity surrounding recent child abuse scandals involving well-known figures, dozens of British men are breaking decades of silence about molestation they say they suffered as boys at expensive private schools, forcing the schools to confront allegations that in the past might have been hushed up, ignored or treated derisively.
最近几桩涉及名人的虐童丑闻备受舆论界关注。在这种氛围的激励下，几十位英国男士正在打破数十年的沉默，出面痛陈儿童时期在昂贵的私立学校遭受猥亵的经历，进而迫使相关学校不得不面对这些在过去可能被隐瞒、忽略或嘲讽的指控。
In one instance involving Aldwickbury School, which educates boys ages 4 to 13, a former student, who requested anonymity because of the intimate details of the case, said he suffered profound feelings of confusion and guilt after being abused by a teacher in the 1970s. He said the teacher molested him regularly during English lessons over a period of two years.
其中一个案例涉及在校生为4岁到13岁男孩的艾尔德维克勃利学校(Aldwickbury School)。一位前学生表示，1970年代被一位老师性侵后，他时常意识模糊，并且背负着巨大的负罪感，不能自拔。他说这位老师经常在英语课上猥亵他，历时两年之久。由于案情的私密性，他不愿透露自己的姓名。
With the teacher dead, and in the absence of an apology from the school, the former student brought a civil case against Aldwickbury, which was settled with a payment.
鉴于这位老师现在已经去世，该校也没有正式道歉，这位前学生向艾尔德维克勃利学校提起民事诉讼，最终获得了一笔赔偿金。
Getting the school to face up to what happened more than three decades ago was, the former student said, like “knocking my head against a brick wall.”
让学校直面三十多年前的事情，就像是“用我的头撞砖墙一样”，这位前学生说。
Vernon Hales, the current headmaster at Aldwickbury — in Harpenden, about 30 miles north of London — said in a statement that the school had reported the allegations, which do not relate to any current staff members or pupils, to the relevant authorities and been told that no further action would be taken.
艾尔德维克勃利学校位于伦敦北部约30英里的哈彭登。现任校长弗农·黑尔斯(Vernon Hales)在一份声明中说，该校曾经向相关部门汇报过这些并不涉及目前教职员工和学生的指控，但被告知不会有任何跟进措施。
“All child abuse is horrendous and to be deplored,” Mr. Hales said. “We extend our deepest sympathy to the victims of abuse, and even when the cases are historic, this does not lessen the anguish that they feel.” He added that the school “takes child protection extremely seriously.”
“这些虐童事件太可怕了，应该受到严厉谴责，”黑尔斯先生说。“我们向受害者致以最深切的慰问，尽管这些都是过去的事情，但这丝毫也不会减轻他们的痛苦。”他补充说，这所学校现在“非常重视对儿童的保护”。
The former Aldwickbury student is one of dozens of people who have come forward, driven in part by the public scandal surrounding Jimmy Savile, a television presenter who, after his death, was revealed to have been a serial sex abuser. The Savile case prompted a wide-ranging criminal inquiry that led to charges against other prominent people, adding to the attention being paid to abuse cases from years or decades ago.
这位前学生是数十位已经站出来的英国人之一。在一定程度上，正是最近一桩公共丑闻让他们鼓起了勇气。丑闻的主角，已经去世的电视节目主持人吉米·萨维尔(Jimmy Savile)被发现曾经接连性侵过多名儿童。这起案件促使警方展开广泛的刑事调查，并最终对其他几位名人提起诉讼，社会各界由此更加关注几年前甚至几十年前发生的性侵案件。
Last month, a former headmaster of Caldicott, a school in Buckinghamshire attended by Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, was jailed for past child abuse offenses. The former headmaster, Roland Peter Wright, now 83, was convicted of abusing students 8 to 13 from 1959 to 1970.
上个月，考尔迪科特学校(Caldicott)的一位前校长因过去的性侵儿童罪行被捕入狱。这所学校位于白金汉郡，英国副首相尼克·克莱格(Nick Clegg)曾在此就读。这位现年83岁，名叫罗兰·彼得·赖特(Roland Peter Wright)的前校长被控在1959年至1970年性侵过8到13位学生。
“Boys craved your attention and strove for your praise,” Judge Johannah Cutts said as she sentenced Mr. Wright to eight years in jail. “From those, you picked out boys for your individual sexual attentions.”
“男孩们渴望你的关注，希望获得你的夸奖，”法官约翰娜·卡茨(Johannah Cutts)说。“作为教师的你竟然从中挑选一些男孩满足你个人的性欲。”赖特最终被判8年有期徒刑。
Mr. Clegg said last year that he had been unaware of the abuse but was appalled.
克莱格去年曾表示，他一直不知道这些事，但感到万分震惊。
Other schools facing compensation claims include Ashdown House, which has educated, among others, the queen’s nephew, Viscount Linley, and the mayor of London, Boris Johnson.
面临索赔的其他学校包括阿什当之家(Ashdown House)。许多名人曾经在这所学校就读，其中包括女王的侄子林利子爵(Viscount Linley)和伦敦市长鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)。
Most of these claims are directed at Britain’s preparatory schools, which typically admit children 4 to 13, with students living at the school starting at 7 or 8. Fees can be substantial, but in a country where private schooling is often seen as a key to success, many parents pay up in an effort to prepare pupils for entry to famous establishments for older children, like Eton College, Harrow School and Winchester College (known in Britain as public schools despite being private and expensive).
大多数索赔要求都是针对英国的预科学校。这类学校通常招收4到13岁的孩子，学生们从7岁或8岁开始住校。学费可能非常昂贵，但在这样一个私立教育常常被视为成功之关键的国家，许多家长宁愿花血本，也要让子女做好日后进入伊顿公学(Eton College)、哈罗公学(Harrow School)和温彻斯特学院(Winchester College )等名校的准备。在英国，这些名校被称为公立学校，尽管它们都带有私人性质，而且学费高昂。
Britain’s fee-paying schools have a track record of brutality. These days, most have shed the strictness and austerity of previous eras, but many upper-class Britons remember childhoods of cold showers, inedible food and relentless corporal punishment.
英国的私立学校向来以无情著称。尽管大多数学校现在已不再像过往时代那么严苛，但英国的许多上层阶级依然记得童年时期洗冷水浴，吃难以下咽的食物，遭受无情体罚的残酷经历。
The very nature of boarding schools — closed environments in which teachers can wield enormous power — can make them attractive to child abusers. But in previous decades, parents were often reluctant to challenge teachers’ authority, said Alan Collins, principal lawyer at Slater & Gordon, which represented the former Aldwickbury student. He has 30 to 40 more cases pending against schools across the country.
寄宿学校的本质——在这个封闭的环境中，教师掌握着无上的权力——有可能让其成为虐童者的天堂。但在过去几十年里，学生家长往往不愿挑战教师的权威，斯莱特戈登律师事务所(Slater & Gordon)主任律师阿兰·柯林斯(Alan Collins)说。柯林斯是这位前艾尔德维克勃利学校学生的代表律师。他手头上还有三四十个针对全英各地学校的诉讼案。
“You had deference and the attitude that ‘this sort of thing happens,’ ” Mr. Collins said, adding that when teachers were discovered abusing pupils, they tended to be moved on quietly to avoid public embarrassment and damage to the school’s reputation.
“‘发生这类事情’跟你的顺从和态度也有一定的关系，”柯林斯先生说。他随即补充道，当老师被发现性侵学生时，他们往往会被悄无声息地调离岗位，以避免当众受窘，并损坏学校的声誉。
“Sexual abuse is a taboo subject,” Mr. Collins said. “People do not want to talk about it for the obvious reason that it’s really gruesome, and in this country there has been a tendency or a temptation to sweep it under the carpet.”
“性侵是一个禁忌话题，”柯林斯先生说。“人们不想谈论它的原因非常明显：这样的事情真的太可怕了。此外，这个国家向来都有一种遮掩性侵事件的倾向和冲动。”
The cases he is pursuing took place all over the country and ranged “from inappropriate touching to very intrusive penetration and everything in between,” he said.
他接手的这些案子发生在全英各地，侵害的程度“从不适当的触摸，非常粗暴的插入，到介于二者之间的种种情形”，他说。
Mr. Collins added that the victims had suffered significantly. “Child abuse has the potential to affect a person’s functioning, the ability to form and sustain relationships; it can affect the ability to hold down a job,” he said, noting that some of his clients in their 40s had held 30 positions because “they just can’t settle in a job.”
柯林斯补充说，受害者已经遭受了巨大的创伤。他说，“小时候受到性虐待有可能影响一个人的正常成长，伤害他形成和维持恋爱关系的能力，对他的就业也有影响。”柯林斯指出，他有一些40多岁的客户已经先后从事过30份工作，因为“他们根本无法在一个岗位上安定下来”。