BANGKOK — When Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s former high school teachers learned she had become Thailand’s first female prime minister, they were concerned.
曼谷——当英拉·西那瓦(Yingluck Shinawatra)高中时代的老师得知她成为了泰国首位女总理时，他们有点儿担心。
As a student, Ms. Yingluck was well liked and exceedingly polite, said Prapaiporn Tangsuntornkhan, the prime minister’s former math teacher. But Ms. Yingluck, a political neophyte in 2011, seemed an unlikely candidate to preside over the lion’s den of Thai politics, a male-dominated bastion of intrigue, military power plays and back stabbing.
作为一名学生，英拉总是非常有礼貌，受到众人的喜爱，她的前数学老师巴拜·丹孙东(Prapaiporn Tangsuntornkhan)说。但2011年时，英拉还是一名政坛新手，似乎不太可能在险恶的泰国政界主持大局，那是一个由男性主导的堡垒，充斥着阴谋、暗算和军事实力的较量。
“She was attentive and diligent — she wasn’t a leader,” Ms. Prapaiporn said. “People who are in politics usually love debating. But she never once raised her hand in class, never contradicted the teacher.”
“她细心而勤奋，但不是一个领导者。”巴拜说。“热衷政治的人通常喜欢辩论，但她从来没有在课堂上举过手，从来不会反驳老师的说法。”
Two and a half years after taking office, Ms. Yingluck, 46, is now battling many of these same perceptions in a protracted fight for her political survival. She has been mocked by the opposition in Parliament as “not intelligent”; ridiculed as a proxy for her brother, the billionaire tycoon Thaksin Shinawatra; and derided in songs sung by the tens of thousands of protesters who have massed on the streets of Bangkok in recent weeks calling for her to flee the country.
上任两年半之后，46岁的英拉如今正在跟很多同样的看法作斗争，这是一场旷日持久的为自己政治生涯而进行的斗争。她被议会中的反对派嘲笑为“不聪明”；被讽刺为她的兄长、亿万富翁他信·西那瓦(Thaksin Shinawatra)的代理人；最近几周，集结在曼谷街头数以万计的示威者传唱着嘲笑她的歌曲，呼吁她离开这个国家。
In an interview with a handful of foreign journalists on Wednesday, Ms. Yingluck appeared calm but defensive. She said she had not yet decided whether to put herself forward as the party’s candidate for prime minister in the February elections she called to try to bring calm.
周三，在少数外国记者参加的采访中，英拉显得平静沉稳，但却采取了防御姿态。她说她还没有决定是否会愿意作为自己政党的候选人参加明年2月的总理大选，她提前召开这次大选是为了平息当前的紧张局势。
She suggested that protesters, who have surrounded her office and called for an unelected “people’s council” to run the country, were making demands that would not work in the “real world.” (Many Thai scholars have agreed.)
示威者已经包围了她的办公室，并要求让一个非民选的“人民委员会”来管理泰国，英拉表示，他们提出的一些要求在“现实世界”中是行不通的（很多泰国学者也同意这个看法）。
And she said she was confident the military would not stage a coup as it did against her brother in 2006, helping set off Thailand’s seven years of intermittent political turmoil.
英拉说，她相信军方不会发动政变；军方曾在2006年发动了针对她兄长的政变，开启了泰国七年来断断续续的政治乱局。
“I don’t think the military will do that again,” she said.
“我认为军方不会再这样做，”她说。
And yet the location of the interview, an air force base on the outskirts of Bangkok, underlined Ms. Yingluck’s precarious position. Protesters who two weeks ago seized the Finance Ministry and last week camped out at the gates of her office have threatened to “capture” her — a symbol of their impunity and Ms. Yingluck’s unwillingness or inability to crack down.
而把这次采访的地点定在曼谷郊区的一个空军基地，正突显了英拉地位的岌岌可危。抗议者两周前占领了财政部(Finance Ministry)，上周又在她的办公室大门外安营扎寨，扬言要“活捉”她——显示了他们的有恃无恐，也成为英拉不愿或无力打击他们的证明。
An interview last week with foreign journalists was canceled because her aides judged the location too insecure, and Ms. Yingluck has spent the past week changing locations daily.
原定上周进行的与外国记者进行的采访被取消了，因为她的助手认为地点太不安全；在过去一周里，英拉每天更换办公地点。
“We have to go to places that have many exits,” said Teerat Ratanasevi, the government spokesman.
“我们去的地方必须有很多出口，”泰国政府发言人迪拉·拉丹那森(Teerat Ratanasevi)说。
It remains unclear if her unusually soft approach to the protesters — at one point security forces welcomed demonstrators onto government property to try to defuse their anger — will work or further undermine the authority of the state. 
目前还不清楚，她对抗议者这种异常温和的方式是能够解决问题，还是会进一步削弱国家的权威。有一次安全部队欢迎示威者进入政府的场地，企图以此平息他们的怒火。
Protesters have repeatedly mocked Ms. Yingluck for her gaffes. When Hillary Rodham Clinton visited the country in 2011 as the secretary of state, Ms. Yingluck said in English she wanted to “overcome” the secretary instead of “welcome” her. She referred once in Thai to the “president of Malaysia” instead of the “prime minister,” and also spoke of “the country of Sydney.”
英拉的一些失口之言也遭到了示威者的多番嘲笑。2011年，时任美国国务卿的希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)访问泰国时，英拉用英语说“欢迎”(welcome)她时，说成了“克服”(overcome)她。还有一次英拉用泰语说“马来西亚总统”，其实应为“总理”，此外她还说过“悉尼国”。
But of all the criticism Ms. Yingluck has endured during the protests, it is the relationship with her brother, Mr. Thaksin that is the most contentious.
虽然英拉在抗议期间遭受了各种批评，但其中争议最大的还是她与兄长他信的关系。
The current protests were prompted by the governing party’s attempt to pass a general amnesty bill last month that would have eased the return from exile of Mr. Thaksin, who was convicted of abuse of power in 2008 and has a number of corruption cases pending.
当前的抗议活动是由执政党上月企图通过的一项大赦法案引发的，该法案本可以让流亡在外的他信更加容易地返回泰国。他信在2008年时被判滥用职权罪，并且还有几件腐败案尚未了结。
Ms. Yingluck’s party has boasted of its connections to Mr. Thaksin because of the popularity of his policies in northern Thailand. But for Mr. Thaksin’s enemies, the amnesty bill only underlined their claims that Ms. Yingluck was installed merely to serve his interests.
英拉所在的政党吹嘘他们跟他信之间的关系，因为他信的政策在泰国北部很受欢迎。但对于他信的敌人来说，大赦法案只不过是进一步证明了他们的说法，即把英拉推上台完全是在为他信的利益服务。
Ms. Yingluck has repeatedly deflected specific questions about how often she consults with her brother and how much influence he has on her. But members of her party, Pheu Thai, said in interviews this year that they stayed in regular contact with him and that he conceived the party’s main policies.
当被问及她征求兄长意见的情况有多频繁，以及他对她的影响力有多大时，英拉多次避而不谈。但她所在的泰党(Pheu Thai)成员今年在接受采访时表示，他们经常与他信联系，泰党的主要政策也是由他信规划的。