ALIBABAThe House That Jack Ma BuiltBy Duncan ClarkIllustrated. 287 pp. Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99.
《阿里巴巴：马云的商业帝国》(Alibaba: The House That Jack Ma Built)。邓肯·克拉克(Duncan Clark)著。有插图。287页。Ecco/HarperCollins出版社。27.99美元。
The personal-computer and Internet revolution that began in the late 20th century eventually took over most of the world, but its most prominent players — Amazon, Apple, eBay, Google, Microsoft — were distinctly American. In the 21st century, it is not impossible to imagine an Internet revolution beginning in China.
20世纪末开始的个人电脑与互联网革命最终席卷世界大多数地方，但其重要的参与者――亚马逊、苹果、eBay、谷歌和微软――都是美国公司。进入21世纪，设想互联网革命从中国开始，并非绝无可能。
That possibility is, as with so many aspects of China, a function of scale. Alibaba, the sprawling Chinese digital marketplace, is already by some measures larger than Amazon. Its payment tool Alipay alone accounts for one-third of the $2.5 trillion global online payments market. The dizzying rise of the company is a crucial part of China’s ascension as a global economic power, When the Alibaba founder Jack Ma appeared onstage last year at a summit in Manila with Barack Obama, Obama interviewed him.
这种可能性和中国的很多方面一样，是一种规模效应。四处发展的中国数字市场阿里巴巴在很多方面已经比亚马逊要大了。仅仅是它的支付工具支付宝，就占据全球在线支付总金额2.5万亿美元的三分之一。这个公司令人晕眩的崛起是中国上升为全球经济大国过程中的重要一环，如果你从没听说过这家公司，以后也会听说的。去年，阿里巴巴的创始人马云和贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)一道出现在马尼拉的某个峰会上，奥巴马与他进行了交谈。
We often think of successful tech C.E.O.s climbing from the nerdy ranks of tinkering programmers, like Bill Gates, but as “Alibaba,” Duncan Clark’s engaging biography explains, Ma’s humble origins gave no clue to his future — then again, in 1970s China, the very idea of a homegrown technology business executive was inconceivable. Born in 1964 to a photographer and a factory worker, Ma grew up a mediocre student in the city of Hangzhou. About the only thing that set Ma apart was learning English, which he would practice by speaking to tourists passing through his hometown.
我们经常觉得成功的科技首席执行官们都是从编程狂人一级级爬上来的，比如比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)，但是邓肯在这本引人入胜的传记《阿里巴巴》中写道，从马云的寒微出身丝毫无法预见到他的未来——在20世纪70年代的中国，本土科技产业执行官这个概念都是根本无法想像的。1964年，马云生于杭州，是摄影师与工人的儿子。他从小是个普通的学生，唯一令他与众不同的是他喜欢学英语，靠着与来家乡旅游的游客对话锻炼口语。
After a stint teaching English, Ma began running a tiny translation business, focused on Chinese companies — beginning to flourish under Deng Xiaoping — seeking to do business with the West. During his first visit to the United States in the mid-90s, a friend in Seattle logged Ma onto the Internet, and it occurred to him that listing Chinese companies online might be a good idea.
教了一段时间的英语之后，马云开了一家小型翻译公司，客户主要是在邓小平时期开始大量出现的、渴望同西方做生意的中国公司。90年代中期，马云第一次去了美国，一个西雅图的朋友教他上了互联网，他觉得，把中国公司的名单列在网上会是个好主意。
If you think early American web pioneers had a tough time persuading investors and consumers to embrace the scary new world of e-commerce, imagine the challenge Ma’s start-up faced: Most of China had no Internet, so his early clients were handing him thousands of dollars to create web services they themselves could not see. “I was treated like a con man for three years,” Ma said.
如果你觉得美国早期的互联网先驱曾经费尽周折，劝说投资者与消费者们接受电子商务的可怕新世界，不妨想想马云起步时所面临的挑战吧：当时大半个中国没有互联网，所以他的早期客户等于是给了他成千上万的钱，来建立一个他们自己根本看不到的网络服务。“三年的时间里，我都被当成骗子，”马云说。
Soon enough, though, his clients answered their phones to find curious Western customers on the line. Ma’s “China Pages” and several other Chinese start-ups began to attract the attention of outside investors. That money, some of which came from the Japanese billionaire Masayosha Son, was rocket fuel for what became Alibaba, which has a massive shipping-logistics arm on top of its e-commerce services. When Alibaba went public in 2014, the $25 billion it raised made it the largest I.P.O. in world history (the next two, incidentally, were Chinese state-controlled enterprises).
不过，他的客户很快就开始接到好奇的西方消费者的电话了。马云的“中国黄页”以及其他的中国初创公司开始吸引外界投资者的关注，阿里巴巴的部分启动资金就来自日本亿万富翁孙正义。如今阿里巴巴的电子商务拥有庞大的运输-物流分支，2014年上市时，最高融资达到250亿美元，成为世界史上最大的I.P.O（其后两名是中国国家控股的企业）。
Clark is a China-based investment adviser and onetime consultant to Alibaba; he notes that his failure to exercise stock options he was given as payment became a $30-million mistake. The access he got to the company pushes his breezy account more toward the business than to Ma’s personality. Still, Ma emerges as an unpretentious, self-deprecating leader, fond of quoting martial arts novels and “Forrest Gump.” Yet he is clearly also shrewd and extremely driven. And his company has acquired enough wealth to begin to reshape the Western business world; he has announced a Netflix-style video streaming service and now has a movie division that invests in Hollywood blockbusters.
克拉克是一位现居中国的投资顾问，亦曾当过阿里巴巴的顾问；他指出，当初没有行使阿里巴巴作为报酬给他的股权，令自己犯下价值3000万美元的错误。在公司的经历令他更乐于生动地描述公司的商务，而不是马云的个性。尽管如此，一个朴实谦逊的马云还是跃然纸上，他喜欢引用武侠小说和《阿甘正传》(Forrest Gump)。但他显然也非常精明，是个奋发努力的人。他的公司如今已经积累了足够财富，开始重新塑造西方商业世界；他已经宣布成立一个Netflix式的流媒体服务，如今拥有一个电影部门，投资好莱坞大片。