SAN FRANCISCO — Intel, the world’s largest maker of semiconductors, is dropping its longtime support of the most prestigious science and mathematics competition for American high school students.
旧金山——英特尔(Intel)这家全球最大的半导体制造商，打算放弃长久以来对最负盛名的美国高中生科学和数学竞赛的支持。
The contest, called the Science Talent Search, brings 40 finalists to Washington for meetings with leaders in government and industry and counts among its past competitors eight Nobel Prize winners, along with chief executives, university professors and award-winning scientists.
这项竞赛名叫“科学天才奖”(Science Talent Search)，40名决赛入围选手可以来到华盛顿，与政府高官和企业高管会面。其参赛者中曾产生过八名诺贝尔奖得主，以及一些首席执行官、大学教授和获奖科学家。
Over the years, the award for work in so-called STEM fields — science, technology, engineering and mathematics — has made national headlines and been an important indicator of America’s educational competitiveness and national priorities. When it was started as an essay competition in 1942, its first topic was “How science can help win the war.” The male winner, or “Top Boy,” went on to develop an artificial kidney. The “Top Girl” became an ophthalmologist. A single winner was first named in 1949.
多年来，这个面向“STEM领域”——科学(science)、技术(technology)、工程(engineering)和数学(mathematics)——成果所颁发的奖项，经常受到全国媒体的关注，它也是一个重要的风向标，标志着美国教育的竞争力和全国的关注点。1942年，这项竞赛首次举办，形式是作文比赛，其首个话题是“科学能如何帮助我们赢得战争”。那次优胜的男选手——或者叫“顶尖男孩”——后来开发了一种人工肾脏。而“顶尖女孩”日后成为了一名眼科医生。第一名单个获胜者于1949年产生。
“When I was a finalist in 1961, it was the Sputnik generation, when America was competing with Russia to get into space,” said Mary Sue Coleman, a former president of the University of Michigan and a current member of the board of the Society for Science and the Public, which administers the contest. “It was a national obsession. People in school cheered us on like we were star athletes. I got letters from the heads of corporations.”
“我在1961年入围决赛，那是人造卫星的一代，当时美国正在和苏联展开太空竞赛，”玛丽·苏·科尔曼(Mary Sue Coleman)说。她曾任密歇根大学校长，目前是科学与公众协会(Society for Science and the Public)董事，该协会负责举办这项竞赛。“当时全国都很迷恋这个比赛。学校的人为我们加油，好像我们是明星运动员似的。我还收到一些大企业老板的信。”
Dropping support for the high school contest is a puzzling decision by Intel, since it costs about $6 million a year — about 0.01 percent of Intel’s $55.6 billion in revenue last year — and it generates significant good will for the sponsoring organization. Intel has also increased the size and scope of the award, giving more than $1.6 million annually to students and schools, compared with $207,000 when it began its sponsorship in 1998.
英特尔不再支持这项高中竞赛的决定令人疑惑。因为其资助款项每年只有600万美元左右——大约只占英特尔去年556亿美元总营收的0.01%——还能为赞助商带来商誉。英特尔也扩大了奖项的规模和范围，它现在每年向学生和学校拨款160万美元，而1998年它首次赞助时仅提供了20.7万美元。
The Silicon Valley giant took over sponsorship of the award with great fanfare from Westinghouse, becoming only the second company to back the prize in its 73-year history. At the time it was seen as something of a passing of the torch in American industry, to a company then at the heart of the Information Age from one renowned for industrial work in things like nuclear power plants.
英特尔这家硅谷巨头当初大张旗鼓地接替西屋公司(Westinghouse)，成为在该奖项73年的历史内，为其提供赞助的第二家公司。当时在人们看来，这一举动颇有些传递美国工业火炬的意味，奖项的赞助权从一家以核反应堆等工业项目闻名的公司，转移到了另一家处于信息时代核心的公司。
Craig Barrett, a former chief executive of Intel, is even a member of the board of the Society for Science and the Public. He said he was “surprised and a little disappointed” by Intel’s decision.
克雷格·贝瑞特(Craig Barrett)曾担任英特尔首席执行官，他现在甚至还是科学与公众协会董事。他说自己对英特尔的决定“感到惊讶，还有一丝失望”。
“It’s such a premier event in terms of young people and technology,” Mr. Barrett said. “But they appear to be more interested in applied things, like” Maker Faire, an all-ages event that showcases homemade engineering projects.
“对年轻人和科技领域而言，这是一场极其重要的赛事，”贝瑞特说。“但是他们似乎对应用方向的东西更感兴趣”，比如“制汇节”(Maker Faire)，这是一个面向各个年龄段的活动，展示家庭制作的工程项目。
Mr. Barrett said he had talked with Brian M. Krzanich, Intel’s chief executive for the last two years, about the contest. Though Mr. Barrett thought it was inappropriate to aggressively lobby his old employer, he termed the annual cost “a rounding error” against Intel’s finances.
贝瑞特说，在过去的两年里，他一直和英特尔首席执行官布莱恩·M·科再奇(Brian M. Krzanich)谈论这项竞赛。虽然贝瑞特认为，过于积极地游说自己的老东家有些不妥，但他称资助比赛的年度开销与英特尔的财务状况相比，只相当于“舍入误差”。
“My only comment to Brian was that we’d move forward,” said Mr. Barrett, who became Intel’s chief executive in 1998 and retired as chairman of Intel’s board in 2009. He now runs a chain of charter schools, called Basis, from Phoenix.
“我对布莱恩发表的唯一的评论是，我们得继续前进，”贝瑞特说。他在1998年成为英特尔的首席执行官，2009年从英特尔董事长任上退休。现在，他经营着一家起步于菲尼克斯的连锁特许学校，名为基础学校(Basis)。
There is little indication that the contest has lost its prestige. Applications have held steady at around 1,800 a year for a decade. And in March, President Obama met with the Talent Search finalists at the White House.
没有迹象表明这项竞赛已经失去了影响力。申请人数十年来保持稳定，每年大约有1800人申请。今年3月，奥巴马总统在白宫会见了科学奖决赛的入围选手。
Gail Dudas, a spokeswoman for Intel, could not say why it was ending its support, but she said the company, which has struggled with a shift to mobile computing devices but is still one of the tech industry’s most influential names, is “proud of its legacy” in supporting the award.
英特尔发言人盖尔·杜达斯(Gail Dudas)没有透露该公司为何停止赞助，但她表示，公司为资助该奖项的“传统感到骄傲”。英特尔公司在向移动计算设备转变的过程中陷于被动，但仍然是科技产业最有影响力的品牌之一。
The Science Talent Search is open to any student in the United School or its territories in his or her last year of secondary school. Independent individual research by thousands of students is narrowed down to 300 semifinalists. Of those, 40 finalists are chosen.
科学天才奖面向美国领土上所有的高中毕业班学生。一千多名提交独立研究的学生，将被缩减至300名半决赛参赛者。然后选出40人参加决赛。
Previous finalists include Ray Kurzweil, a well-known author and director of engineering at Google, and Brian Greene, a best-selling science writer. Thomas Leighton, the chief executive of the Internet company Akamai, was a finalist and is now on the society’s board.
此前的决赛选手包括知名作家、谷歌工程总监雷·库日韦尔(Ray Kurzweil)，畅销科普作家布赖恩·格林(Brian Greene)。互联网公司Akamai首席执行官托马斯·莱顿(Thomas Leighton)曾进入决赛，现在是科学与公众协会的董事。
The finalists travel to Washington, where they present their work, meet government and private sector leaders and have their projects reviewed by a panel of judges. There were nine top awards in 2015, worth $35,000 to $150,000.
决赛选手前往华盛顿介绍自己的项目，与政府领导人及私营领域领袖会面，并由评审小组对其项目进行评估。2015年共有九人获得最高奖项，奖金从3.5万美元到15万美元不等。
This year, Intel gave out three first prizes to highlight the variety of the research conducted. One student developed an algorithm to study adaptive mutations across the human genome. Another studied how phonons, the basic particles of sound, interact with electrons.
今年，英特尔颁发了三个一等奖，以突显选手所做研究的多样性。一名学生研发了一种研究人类基因组适应性突变的算法。另一名学生研究了声子与电子之间的相互作用，声子是声音的基本粒子。
“They have been an excellent partner for almost 20 years, but their corporate priorities have changed,” said Maya Ajmera, president of the Society for Science and the Public.
科学与公众协会会长玛雅·阿杰米拉(Maya Ajmera)表示，英特尔“在将近20年的时间里，都是非常好的合作伙伴。但该公司的关注点变了。”
To more recent winners, Intel may have received a benefit besides publicity — it got to teach the young stars more about Intel.
就最近获奖的选手而言，英特尔可能除了得到宣传之外，还得到了另一个好处——让这些年轻的明星更了解英特尔。
“They showed us stuff they were doing with wearable technologies and machine learning,” a type of artificial intelligence, said Noah Gulwich, a freshman at Harvard. He shared this year’s prize for his work in a branch of mathematics known as the Ramsey theory, which finds structure in complex systems. “I didn’t know much about all the things Intel does before I went to Washington.”
“他们向我们展示了他们利用可穿戴技术和机器学习所做的东西，”哈佛大学新生诺亚·古尔维赫(Noah Gulwich)说，机器学习是一种人工智能。今年，古尔维赫凭借对拉姆齐定理的一个分支的研究获奖，拉姆齐定理发现了复杂系统中的结构。“我在去华盛顿之前，不太了解英特尔所做的事情。”
Ms. Ajmera said her group would start looking for a new corporate sponsor on Wednesday. “We pride ourselves on recognizing thousands of leaders in science and technology and hope to keep doing so,” she said.
阿杰米拉表示，该协会将从周三开始寻找新的企业赞助商。她说，“我们表彰了科学和技术领域数以千计的领先人才，我们为此感到自豪，并希望能继续下去。”
Other board members expressed confidence that national competition would produce another corporate sponsor.
董事会的其他成员充满信心，认为这项全国性的竞赛会获得下一个企业赞助商。
Ms. Coleman was a finalist in 1961 for researching drug-resistant bacteria. First prize that year was awarded to a study of bowing in the courtship behavior of the male ring dove.
科尔曼在1961年凭借对耐药细菌的研究入围决赛。一个研究雄性斑鸠求偶时弯腰动作的项目，在那一年获得了第一名。
She said she was “very aware” that Larry Page, co-founder and chief executive of Google, is a Michigan graduate and that Google might be a candidate. “This isn’t a huge amount of money for what it represents,” she said. “I assume another corporation will step up to this.”
她表示，她“非常清楚”，谷歌联合创始人兼首席执行官拉里·佩奇(Larry Page)毕业于密歇根大学，而谷歌可能会是一个候选。“相对于这项竞赛所体现的意义，这些钱并不算多，”她说。“我觉得会有下一家公司提供资助。”
Intel informed the group of its decision about 18 months ago, she said, and it will continue to support the award through 2017, in keeping with an earlier contract.
她表示，英特尔在大约18个月前向该协会通报了这个决定，英特尔将会遵守之前的合同，继续资助比赛，直到2017年。
Intel will continue to support a separate talent search aimed at international student competition at least through 2019, which is Intel’s contractual term, said Ms. Dudas, the Intel spokeswoman.
英特尔发言人杜达斯表示，根据英特尔的合同条款，英特尔会继续资助另外一个搜寻人才的国际学生竞赛，至少到2019年。
In addition to the Intel-sponsored prize, the society also runs a science and technology competition for middle school students, financed by the Broadcom Foundation. Although Broadcom, another semiconductor company, was bought this year, the Broadcom Foundation is independent and will continue to support the prize.
除了英特尔资助的奖项，该协会还开展了一项由博通基金会(Broadcom Foundation)资助的中学生科技竞赛。虽然半导体企业博通公司在今年被收购，但博通基金会仍独立运作，将会继续资助该奖项。