Not limiting their activities to the earthly realm, American and British spies have infiltrated the fantasy worlds of World of Warcraft and Second Life, conducting surveillance and scooping up data in the online games played by millions of people across the globe, according to newly disclosed classified documents.
新近披露的机密文件显示，美国和英国的间谍活动并不局限在尘俗的现实世界，它们已经渗透到了《魔兽世界》(World of Warcraft)和《第二人生》(Second Life)的幻想世界，监听数以百万计全球玩家参与的网络游戏，并在其中搜集大量数据。
Fearing that terrorist or criminal networks could use the games to communicate secretly, move money or plot attacks, the documents show, intelligence operatives have entered terrain populated by digital avatars that include elves, gnomes and supermodels.
这份文件显示，由于担心恐怖分子或犯罪集团利用游戏来进行秘密沟通、转移资金或策划攻击行动，情报人员已经潜入了精灵、侏儒和超级名模等数字角色居住的领域。
The spies have created make-believe characters to snoop and to try to recruit informers, while also collecting data and contents of communications between players, according to the documents, disclosed by the former National Security Agency contractor Edward J. Snowden. Because militants often rely on features common to video games — fake identities, voice and text chats, a way to conduct financial transactions — American and British intelligence agencies worried that they might be operating there, according to the papers.
为了在游戏中进行窥探，这些情报人员创建了虚构角色，此外他们还尝试招募线人，收集数据以及玩家之间的交流信息，国家安全局(NSA)前雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)披露的文件显示。由于电子游戏普遍具备的功能——假身份、语音和文本聊天，以及金融交易途径，也是武装分子经常用到的，美国和英国情报机构担心，他们可能会通过游戏开展活动，这份文件指出。
Online games might seem innocuous, a top-secret 2008 N.S.A. document warned, but they had the potential to be a “target-rich communication network” allowing intelligence suspects “a way to hide in plain sight.” Virtual games “are an opportunity!” another 2008 N.S.A. document declared.
网络游戏似乎无伤大雅，2008年的一份NSA绝密文件警告说，但是它们有可能成为一个“目标丰富的通信网络”，让情报活动嫌疑对象“隐藏在众目睽睽之下”。虚拟游戏“是一个机会！”同年的另一份NSA文件指出。
But for all their enthusiasm — so many C.I.A., F.B.I. and Pentagon spies were hunting around in Second Life, the document noted, that a “deconfliction” group was needed to avoid collisions — the intelligence agencies may have inflated the threat.
尽管如此看重这个领域——这份文件显示，在《第二人生》中寻找目标的美国中情局、联邦调查局和五角大楼间谍人数之多，以至于需要一个“冲突排解”小组来避免冲突——但情报机构可能夸大了这种威胁。
The documents do not cite any counterterrorism successes from the effort, and former American intelligence officials, current and former gaming company employees and outside experts said in interviews that they knew of little evidence that terrorist groups viewed the games as havens to communicate and plot operations.
该文件没有提及这种行动产生的任何反恐成果，前美国情报官员、现任和前任游戏公司雇员，以及外部专家在接受采访时说，他们对恐怖组织把游戏当作联系沟通渠道和阴谋活动避风港的证据知之甚少。
Games “are built and operated by companies looking to make money, so the players’ identity and activity is tracked,” said Peter W. Singer of the Brookings Institution, an author of “Cybersecurity and Cyberwar: What Everyone Needs to Know.” “For terror groups looking to keep their communications secret, there are far more effective and easier ways to do so than putting on a troll avatar.”
游戏是由希望获利的公司建立和经营的，所以会对玩家的身份和活动进行跟踪，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)高级研究员彼得·W·辛格(Peter W. Singer)说。他也是《网络安全和网络战：每个人都应该知道的》(Cybersecurity and Cyberwar: What Everyone Needs to Know)的合著者。“希望进行秘密通信的恐怖组织，能找到比在游戏中扮演巨魔更加有效和更加容易的通信方式。”
The surveillance, which also included Microsoft’s Xbox Live, could raise privacy concerns. It is not clear exactly how the agencies got access to gamers’ data or communications, how many players may have been monitored or whether Americans’ communications or activities were captured.
这种监听可能会引发隐私问题，遭到监听的服务也包括微软Xbox Live。目前尚不清楚，这些机构究竟是如何获取玩家的数据或通讯内容的，又有多少玩家遭到了监听，以及是否对美国人的通讯或活动信息进行了收集。
One American company, the maker of World of Warcraft, said that neither the N.S.A. nor its British counterpart, the Government Communications Headquarters, had gotten permission to gather intelligence in its game. Many players are Americans, who can be targeted for surveillance only with approval from the nation’s secret intelligence court. The spy agencies, though, face far fewer restrictions on collecting certain data or communications overseas.
制作《魔兽世界》的美国公司表示，NSA以及对应的英国情报机构政府通讯总部(Government Communications Headquarters)都没有获得从这个游戏中收集情报的许可。很多玩家都是美国人，只有在获得了美国秘密情报法院的批准之后，才能对他们进行监听。但是在搜集外国玩家的某些数据或通讯信息时，这些间谍机构受到的限制就少了很多。
"We are unaware of any surveillance taking place," said a spokesman for Blizzard Entertainment, based in Irvine, Calif., which makes World of Warcraft. "If it was, it would have been done without our knowledge or permission." 
“我们并不知道这个游戏遭到监听，”总部位于加州尔湾市的《魔兽世界》制作公司暴雪娱乐(Blizzard Entertainment)的一位发言人说。“如果有的话，那是在我们不知情，或是在没有经过我们许可的情况下进行的。”
A spokeswoman for Microsoft declined to comment. Philip Rosedale, the founder of Second Life and a former chief executive officer of Linden Lab, the game’s maker, declined to comment on the spying revelations. Current Linden executives did not respond to requests for comment.
微软的一位女发言人拒绝予以置评。《第二人生》创始人、该游戏制作商林登实验室(Linden Lab)前任首席执行官菲利普·罗斯代尔(Philip Rosedale)也拒绝对间谍活动曝光事件予以置评。林登实验室现任高管没有回应记者的置评请求。
A Government Communications Headquarters spokesman would neither confirm nor deny any involvement by that agency in gaming surveillance, but said that its work is conducted under “a strict legal and policy framework” with rigorous oversight. An N.S.A. spokeswoman declined to comment.
政府通讯总部的发言人既不证实也不否认该机构跟游戏监听活动有任何牵连，但该发言人说，机构的工作是在“严格的法律和政策框架”下进行的，受到了严密监督。NSA的一名女发言人拒绝置评。
Intelligence and law enforcement officials became interested in games after some became enormously popular, drawing tens of millions of people worldwide, from preteens to retirees. The games rely on lifelike graphics, virtual currencies and the ability to speak to other players in real time. Some gamers merge the virtual and real worlds by spending long hours playing and making close online friends.
当一些游戏变得广受欢迎，在全球各地吸引了数以千万计的老少粉丝之后，情报和执法官员对这个领域产生了兴趣。游戏的法宝是逼真的画面、虚拟货币，以及可以跟其他玩家实时通话的功能。一些玩家在游戏上花费了大量时间，并且结交了亲密网友，这让他们把虚拟世界和现实世界融合到了一起。
In World of Warcraft, players share the same fantasy universe — walking around and killing computer-controlled monsters or the avatars of other players, including elves, animals or creatures known as orcs. In Second Life, players create customized human avatars that can resemble themselves or take on other personas — supermodels and bodybuilders are popular — who can socialize, buy and sell virtual goods, and go places like beaches, cities, art galleries and strip clubs. In Microsoft’s Xbox Live service, subscribers connect online in games that can involve activities like playing soccer or shooting at each other in space.
在《魔兽世界》中，玩家共享同样的幻想世界，他们四处走动，杀戮计算机控制的怪物或者其他玩家的角色，比如精灵、动物，名为“兽人”的生物。在《第二人生》中，玩家会创建自定义角色，要么像是自己，要么像其他人——超级名模和健美运动员很受青睐，这些角色可以开展社交活动，购买和出售虚拟商品，去海滩、城市、美术馆和脱衣舞俱乐部等地方。微软Xbox Live的用户，也可以在联网游戏里踢足球，或在太空里互相射击。
According to American officials and documents that Mr. Snowden provided to The Guardian, which shared them with The New York Times and ProPublica, spy agencies grew worried that terrorist groups might take to the virtual worlds to establish safe communications channels.
按照美国官员的说法，以及从斯诺登提供给《卫报》(The Guardian)，并由《卫报》共享给《纽约时报》及ProPublica的文件来看，情报机构越来越担心恐怖组织可能利用虚拟世界来建立安全通信通道。
In 2007, as the N.S.A. and other intelligence agencies were beginning to explore virtual games, N.S.A. officials met with the chief technology officer for the manufacturer of Second Life, the San Francisco-based Linden Lab. The executive, Cory Ondrejka, was a former Navy officer who had worked at the N.S.A. with a top-secret security clearance.
2007年，NSA和其他情报机构开始调查虚拟游戏的时候，NSA的官员跟旧金山林登实验室的首席技术官科里·昂德莱奇卡(Cory Ondrejka)见了面，他是一名前海军军官，曾在NSA工作，曾拥有最高安全权限。
He visited the agency’s headquarters at Fort Meade, Md., in May 2007 to speak to staff members over a brown bag lunch, according to an internal agency announcement. “Second Life has proven that virtual worlds of social networking are a reality: come hear Cory tell you why!” said the announcement. It added that virtual worlds gave the government the opportunity “to understand the motivation, context and consequent behaviors of non-Americans through observation, without leaving U.S. soil.”
NSA的一份内部通告显示，2007年5月，昂德莱奇卡前往NSA在马里兰州米德堡的总部，跟工作人员开了一个午餐会。这份通告上写着：“《第二人生》已经证明，社交网络的虚拟世界已是现实：来听听科里告诉你为什么！”它还说，虚拟世界给政府提供了一个机会，“不必离开美国本土，就能通过观察来理解非美国人的动机、背景和随之发生的行为。”
Mr. Ondrejka, now the director of mobile engineering at Facebook, said through a representative that the N.S.A. presentation was similar to others he gave in that period, and declined to comment further.
昂德莱奇卡如今是Facebook的移动工程主管，他通过一名工作人员表示，他在NSA做的情况介绍，跟他在那一时期为其他人做的情况介绍很类似，但拒绝进一步置评。
For their part, players have openly worried that the N.S.A. might be watching them.
对游戏玩家来说，他们已经公开表示了担心，认为NSA可能在盯着大家。
In one World of Warcraft discussion thread, begun just days after the first Snowden revelations appeared in the news media in June, a human death knight with the user name “Crrassus” asked whether the N.S.A. might be reading game chat logs.
就在新闻媒体6月登出斯诺登披露的首份秘密文件几天之后，一位用户名为“Crrassus”的死亡骑士在《魔兽世界》的论坛里发帖问：NSA是否会读取游戏中的聊天记录。
“If they ever read these forums,” wrote a goblin priest with the user name “Diaya,” “they would realize they were wasting” their time.
“如果他们浏览这些论坛，”一个用户名为“Diaya”的地精牧师说，“他们就会发现自己是在浪费时间。”