Secret documents reveal more than 1,000 targets of American and British surveillance in recent years, including the office of an Israeli prime minister, heads of international aid organizations, foreign energy companies and a European Union official involved in antitrust battles with American technology businesses.
机密文件显示美国和英国近年来监听了逾1000个目标，其中包括一位以色列总理的办公室、多位国际援助组织和外国能源公司主管，以及一名卷入与美国科技企业的反垄断纠纷的欧盟官员。
While the names of some political and diplomatic leaders have previously emerged as targets, the newly disclosed intelligence documents provide a much fuller portrait of the spies’ sweeping interests in more than 60 countries.
虽然一些政要和外交官遭到监听的事情之前已经曝过光，但新公开的情报文件更加全面地勾勒了英美间谍机构对60多个国家的广泛兴趣。
Britain’s Government Communications Headquarters, working closely with the National Security Agency, monitored the communications of senior European Union officials, foreign leaders including African heads of state and sometimes their family members, directors of United Nations and other relief programs, and officials overseeing oil and finance ministries, according to the documents. In addition to Israel, some targets involved close allies like France and Germany, where tensions have already erupted over recent revelations about spying by the N.S.A.
新的文件显示，英国情报机构政府通讯总部（Government Communications Headquarters，简称GCHQ）与美国国家安全局（National Security Agency，简称NSA）紧密合作，监听欧盟高级官员、联合国和其他救济项目负责人，石油和金融部门监管官员，以及外国领导人的通信，后者包括非洲国家首脑，有时还有他们的家庭成员。除了以色列之外，英美还监听法国和德国这样的亲密盟友；随着NSA间谍活动近来的曝光，德法已经爆发了不满情绪。
Details of the surveillance are described in documents from the N.S.A. and Britain’s eavesdropping agency, known as GCHQ, dating from 2008 to 2011. The target lists appear in a set of GCHQ reports that sometimes identify which agency requested the surveillance, but more often do not. The documents were leaked by the former N.S.A. contractor Edward J. Snowden and shared by The New York Times, The Guardian and Der Spiegel.
这些监听活动的详情记载在NSA和英国窃听机构GCHQ从2008到2011年的一些文件中。监听目标清单出现在一系列GCHQ报告中，有时候标明了监听是在哪个机构的要求下进行的，但多数情况下都没有标明。这批文件被NSA前雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登(Edward J. Snowden)泄露，由《纽约时报》、《卫报》(The Guardian)和《明镜》杂志(Der Spiegel)共享。
The reports are spare, technical bulletins produced as the spies, typically working out of British intelligence sites, systematically tapped one international communications link after another, focusing especially on satellite transmissions. The value of each link is gauged, in part, by the number of surveillance targets found to be using it for emails, text messages or phone calls. More than 1,000 targets, which also include people suspected of being terrorists or militants, are in the reports.
这些文件都是备用的、技术性的简报，通常由间谍在英国情报站点之外活动时制作，他们有条不紊地在国际通信链路中安装窃听器，尤其侧重于卫星通讯。每一条链路的价值都进行过评估，评估标准之一是通过它发送电邮、短信，以及打电话的监视目标个数。这些报告涉及逾1000个监视目标，其中包括疑为恐怖分子或激进分子的人。
It is unclear what the eavesdroppers gleaned. The documents include a few fragmentary transcripts of conversations and messages, but otherwise contain only hints that further information was available elsewhere, possibly in a larger database.
目前还不清楚窃听者搜集到了何种情报。这些文件中包含了少量断断续续的交谈记录以及短信，除此之外就是一些在别的地方能获取到更多的信息的线索，可能是在一个更大的数据库中。
Some condemned the surveillance on Friday as unjustified and improper. “This is not the type of behavior that we expect from strategic partners,” Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen, a spokeswoman for the European Commission, said on the latest revelations of American and British spying in Europe.
上周五，一些人谴责这些监听活动是缺乏依据和不正当的。“这不是战略合作伙伴应有的行为，”针对英美在欧洲开展间谍活动的最新曝光，欧盟委员会(European Commission)发言人皮亚·阿任齐多·汉森(Pia Ahrenkilde Hansen)表示。
Some of the surveillance relates to issues that are being scrutinized by President Obama and a panel he appointed in Washington that on Wednesday recommended tighter limits on the N.S.A., particularly on spying of foreign leaders, especially allies.
其中一些监听活动与奥巴马总统和他在华盛顿任命的一个小组正在审查的一些问题有关，这个小组上周三建议对NSA进行更加严格的管束，特别是针对外国领导人、尤其是盟国领导人的监听活动。
The reports show that spies monitored the email traffic of several Israeli officials, including one target identified as “Israeli prime minister,” followed by an email address. The prime minister at the time, in January 2009, was Ehud Olmert. The next month, spies intercepted the email traffic of the Israeli defense minister, Ehud Barak, according to another report. Two Israeli embassies also appear on the target lists.
这些报告显示，间谍监视了一些以色列官员的电邮流量，其中包括一个名为“以色列总理”的目标，后面跟着电邮地址。当时是2009年1月，任总理的是埃胡德·奥尔默特(Ehud Olmert)。另一份报告显示，随后一个月，间谍又截获了以色列国防部长埃胡德·巴拉克(Ehud Barak)的邮件往来。监听目标列表中还有两所以色列大使馆。
Mr. Olmert said in a telephone interview on Friday that the email address was used for correspondence with his office, which he said staff members often handled. He added that it was unlikely that any secrets could have been compromised.
奥尔默特在上周五接受电话采访时表示，该电邮地址是用来和他的办公室通讯的，经常由工作人员负责处理。他说不太可能会泄露什么机密。
“This was an unimpressive target,” Mr. Olmert said. He noted, for example, that his most sensitive discussions with President George W. Bush took place in person. “I would be surprised if there was any attempt by American intelligence in Israel to listen to the prime minister’s lines,” he said.
“这个目标用处不大，”奥尔默特说。例如，他指出，他与乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统最机密的讨论是当面进行的。“如果美国在以色列的情报人员有任何监听总理通讯线路的企图，我会感到有些惊讶，”他说。
Mr. Barak, who declined to comment, has said publicly that he used to take it for granted that he was under surveillance.
巴拉克拒绝置评，但他公开说过，他曾经理所当然地认为自己处于监视之下。
Despite the close ties between the United States and Israel, the record of mutual spying is long: Israeli spies, including Jonathan Jay Pollard, who was sentenced in 1987 to life in prison for passing intelligence information to Israel, have often operated in the United States, and the United States has often turned the abilities of the N.S.A. against Israel.
美国和以色列之间虽然联系紧密，但相互窥探的记录也不短：以色列间谍经常在美国开展情报活动，其中乔纳森·杰伊·波拉德(Jonathan Jay Pollard)因为传递情报信息到以色列，在1987年被判处终身监禁；而美国也经常把NSA的力量用在对付以色列上。
Mr. Olmert’s office email was intercepted while he was dealing with fallout from Israel’s military response to rocket attacks from Gaza, but also at a particularly tense time in relations with the United States. The two countries were simultaneously at odds on Israeli preparations to attack Iran’s nuclear program and cooperating on a wave of cyberattacks on Iran’s major nuclear enrichment facility.
在奥尔默特办公室的邮件遭截获时，以色列刚刚针对来自加沙的火箭袭击做出了军事回应，奥尔默特需要应对行动引发的后果，而且当时以色列与美国的关系格外紧张。两国在一些问题上出现争执——以色列的伊朗核项目攻击计划准备工作，还有合作展开对伊朗主要核浓缩设施的一系列网络攻击。
A year before the interception of Mr. Olmert’s office email, the documents listed another target, the Institute of Physics at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, an internationally recognized center for research in atomic and nuclear physics.
在奥尔默特办公室邮件被截的一年前，保密文件列出了另一个目标——耶路撒冷希伯来大学(Hebrew University of Jerusalem)物理研究所(Institute of Physics)，这是一个国际公认的原子物理及核物理研究中心。
Also appearing on the surveillance lists is Joaquín Almunia, vice president of the European Commission, which, among other powers, has oversight of antitrust issues in Europe. The commission has broad authority over local and foreign companies, and it has punished a number of American companies, including Microsoft and Intel, with heavy fines for hampering fair competition. The reports say that spies intercepted Mr. Almunia’s communications in 2008 and 2009.
出现在监控名单上的还有欧洲委员会(European Commission)副主席委员华金·阿尔穆尼亚(Joaquín Almunia)，欧委会是监督欧洲反垄断问题的权力机构之一。该委员会对欧洲及外国公司有很大的权力，曾经以阻碍公平竞争的罪名对包括微软(Microsoft)和英特尔(Intel)在内的很多美国公司处以高额罚款。报告称，间谍在2008年和2009年截取了阿尔穆尼亚的通讯记录。
Contacted by The Times, Mr. Almunia said he was “strongly upset” about the spying.
《纽约时报》联系到了阿尔穆尼亚，他表示间谍活动让他感到“非常生气”。
Ms. Hansen, the spokeswoman for the European Commission, said that it was already engaged in talks with the United States that were “needed to restore trust and confidence in the trans-Atlantic relationship.” She added that “the commission will raise these new allegations with U.S. and U.K. authorities.”
欧洲委员会发言人汉森表示，该委员会已经与美国展开交涉，双方“需要通过交谈恢复对跨大西洋关系的信任和信心”。她还表示，“该委员会将向美国和英国当局提出这些新的申诉。”
In a statement, the N.S.A. denied that it had ever carried out espionage to benefit American businesses.
NSA在一份声明中否认该机构曾开展间谍活动，为美国公司谋利。
“We do not use our foreign intelligence capabilities to steal the trade secrets of foreign companies on behalf of — or give intelligence we collect to — U.S. companies to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their bottom line,” said Vanee Vines, an N.S.A. spokeswoman.
NSA发言人范妮·瓦因斯(Vanee Vines)说，“我们没有利用外国情报机构为美国公司盗取外国公司的商业秘密，或将我们搜集的情报给予美国公司，以便提高它们的国际竞争力或增加它们的收入。”
But she added that some economic spying was justified by national security needs. “The intelligence community’s efforts to understand economic systems and policies, and monitor anomalous economic activities, are critical to providing policy makers with the information they need to make informed decisions that are in the best interest of our national security,” Ms. Vines said.
但她还表示，一些经济间谍活动是出于国家安全需要。范妮说，“情报界了解经济制度与政策，监控异常经济活动的举措非常关键，有助于为政策制定者提供他们所需的大量信息，以便他们做出最符合美国国家安全利益的决定。”
Spies have a freer hand with economic targets in Britain, where the law permits intelligence gathering in the service of the “economic well-being” of the country. A GCHQ spokesman said that its policy was not to comment on intelligence matters, but that the agency “takes its obligations under the law very seriously.”
在英国，间谍在面对经济目标时有更大的行动自由，英国法律允许以保证该国“经济福利”为目的开展情报收集工作。GCHQ发言人表示，他们的原则是不评论情报事宜，但该机构“严格按照法律履行职责”。
At the request of GCHQ, The Times agreed to withhold some details from the documents because of security concerns.
应GCHQ的要求，《纽约时报》同意出于安全考虑，不公开保密文件中的一些细节。
The surveillance reports show American and British spies’ deep appetite for information. The French companies Total, the oil and gas giant, and Thales, an electronics, logistics and transportation outfit, appear as targets, as do a French ambassador, an “Estonian Skype security team” and the German Embassy in Rwanda.
监控报告说明美国及英国间谍的胃口非常大。法国石油及天然气巨头道达尔(Total)和电子设备、物流及交通运输公司泰雷兹集团(Thales)都被列入监控目标，监控名单还包括一名法国大使、“爱沙尼亚Skype安全团队”，以及德国驻卢旺达大使馆。
Germany is especially sensitive about American spying since reports emerged that the agency listened to Chancellor Angela Merkel’s cellphone calls. Negotiations for a proposed agreement between Germany and the United States on spying rules have recently stalled for several reasons, including the United States’ guarantee only that it would never spy on the chancellor — a promise it has refused to extend to other German officials.
自有报告称美国情报机构监听德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的手机通话以来，德国对美国的间谍活动特别敏感。德美两国开展谈判，希望就间谍活动规则达成一份协议提案，但谈判最近陷入停滞，原因有很多，其中包括美国只保证不会监控总理——拒绝将承诺的适用范围扩展至其他德国官员。
Multiple United Nations Missions in Geneva are listed as targets, including Unicef and the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research. So is Médecins du Monde, a medical relief organization that goes into war-ravaged areas. Leigh Daynes, an executive director of the organization in Britain, responded to news about the surveillance by saying: “There is absolutely no reason for our operations to be secretly monitored.”
日内瓦的多个联合国代表团都被列为监控目标，其中包括联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)和联合国裁军委员会(United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research)。世界医生(Médecins du Monde)也遭到监控，该医疗救助组织深入饱受战争破坏的地方开展工作。世界医生组织英国地区执行董事利·戴恩斯(Leigh Daynes)在得知被监控的消息后说，“完全没有理由秘密监控我们的行动。”
More obvious intelligence targets are also listed, though in smaller numbers, including people identified as “Israeli grey arms dealer,” “Taleban ministry of refugee affairs” and “various entities in Beijing.” Some of those included are described as possible members of Al Qaeda, and as suspected extremists or jihadists.
监控名单中也有一些更正常的情报目标，尽管数量不是很多，比如“以色列灰市军火商”、“塔利班难民事务部长”，以及“北京的多个实体”。其中一些目标被称作基地组织(Al Qaeda)的可能成员、可疑的极端分子或圣战主义者。
While few if any American citizens appear to be named in the documents, they make clear that some of the intercepted communications either began or ended in the United States and that N.S.A. facilities carried out interceptions around the world in collaboration with their British partners. Some of the interceptions appear to have been made at the Sugar Grove, W.Va., listening post run by the N.S.A. and code-named Timberline, and some are explicitly tied to N.S.A. target lists in the reports.
文件中基本不涉及美国公民（即便有，也很少），但其中明确指出，有一些被截取的通讯记录的发出或接收端在美国，NSA机构与英国合作伙伴联手在世界范围内开展截取信息的行动。其中一些行动似乎是在西弗吉尼亚州的舒格格罗夫进行的，NSA在这里设立了一个代号为“林木线”(Timberline)的情报站，有一些行动明确显示与报告中提到的NSA目标名单有关。
Many of the reports, written by British teams specializing in Sigint, shorthand for “signals intelligence,” are called “Bude Sigint Development Reports,” referring to a British spy campus on the Cornwall coast. The reports often reveal which countries were the endpoints for the intercepted communications, and information on which satellite was carrying the traffic.
这些由英国信号情报(Sigint)专业小组撰写的报告中，有一些被称为“布德信号情报发展报告”(Bude Sigint Development Reports)，布德指的是设在康沃尔海岸布德小镇的英国情报机构园区。该报告通常会透露哪些国家是被截获的通讯记录的端点，以及负责传送信息的卫星的相关信息。