Eight hundred years ago next month, English noblemen forced King John to sign the Magna Carta. It’s still having amazing effects on the world today. The Magna Carta helped usher in government with a separation of powers. It helped create conditions in which centralized authority could not totally control fiscal, political, religious or intellectual life. It helped usher in the modern Anglo-Saxon state model, with its relative emphasis on the open movement of people, ideas and things.
800年前的6月，一群英格兰贵族逼迫国王约翰签署了《大宪章》(Magna Carta)。今天，它依然对世界发挥着惊人的影响力。《大宪章》引入了政府权力分立的概念，为中央政权不能全盘控制财政、政治、宗教及智识创造了条件。它还帮助催生了近代盎格鲁-撒克逊国家模式。相对而言，该模式更强调人口、思想和商品的自由流动。
The Anglo-Saxon model has its plusses and minuses, but it is very attractive to people around the world. Today, as always, immigrants flock to nations with British political heritage. Forty-six million people in the United States are foreign born, almost 1 in 6. That’s by far the highest number of immigrants in any country in the world.
盎格鲁-撒克逊模式自有其利弊，但它对全世界民众散发着巨大的吸引力。今天，移民纷纷涌向继承了英国政治衣钵的国家，一如既往。美国目前的人口中，有4600万出生在国外，比例接近六分之一。这是世界上移民人数最多的国家，把第二名远远甩在了身后。
Canada, Australia and New Zealand are also immigrant magnets. The British political class was a set abuzz last week by a government report showing a 50 percent increase in net immigration in 2014 compared with 2013. The government has a goal of limiting immigration to 100,000 a year, but, in 2014, net inbound migration was estimated to be 318,000. Britain has the most diverse immigrant community of any nation on earth.
加拿大、澳大利亚和新西兰也是吸引移民的磁石。英国上周发布的一份政府报告在该国政界激起了激烈议论。文中披露，英国2014年的净移入人数同比增长了50%。政府原本设立了将移民人数限制在每年10万以下的目标，但2014年的净移入人口约为31.8万。比起世界其他国家，英国的移民群体最为多元化。
Some of the those people went to Britain from outside of Europe, but a great many flow from the sclerotic economies in the European Union: Italy, Spain and France. Compared with many other European countries, Britain is a job-creating paragon.
移居英国的人口中，部分来自欧洲之外，但还有很大一批人来自欧盟内部经济乏力的国家：意大利、西班牙和法国。与欧洲其他地方相比，英国是创造就业岗位的典范。
Across the English-speaking world, immigrants are drawn by the same things: relatively strong economies, good universities, open cultures and the world’s lingua franca.
在讲英语的各个国家中，吸引移民的是相同的几样东西：比较健康的经济、出色的高等院校、开放的文化，以及全世界通用的语言。
The nature of global migration is slowly evolving, too. We have an image of immigrants as the poor, huddled masses yearning to breathe free. According to this stereotype, immigrants are driven from their homes by poverty and move elsewhere to compete against the lowest-skilled workers.
全球移民的本质也在悄悄地发生变化。我们脑海里浮现的移民形象是挤作一团、渴望自由呼吸的穷人。按照这种先入为主的印象，移民离开本土的动机是贫困，而移居他乡后会与技能最少的劳动力争抢饭碗。
But immigrants do not come from the poorest countries. Nations like Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Niger — some of the poorest countries in the world — have some of the lowest outmigration rates. Less than 3 percent of their populations live outside their borders. Their citizens don’t have the resources to move.
然而，现实中的移民并非来自最贫困的国家。中非共和国、刚果民主共和国和尼日尔属于全球经济最不发达的国家之列，而他们的对外移民比例同样在全球垫底。这些国家不到3%的人口目前居住在海外，其国民手中没有掌握搬到其他地方的资源。
Instead, immigrants tend to come from middle-class countries, and they migrate to rich, open ones. You might have thought that as the world gets more middle class, global immigration would decline because of more opportunity at home. In fact, the reverse is happening. As the developing world gets more middle class, immigration has increased because educational and income gains have led to ever higher aspirations.
现实中的移民往往来自中等收入国家，而他们的目的地是开放的富裕国家。大家可能以为，随着世界各国的中产阶级规模的扩大，本土的机会相应增多，全球移民人数会有所减少。然而，事实刚好相反。在发展中国家的中产阶级人数增加的同时，对外移民的人数也在扩张。其中的原因在于，民众受教育程度和收入水平的提高催生出了更甚以往的渴求。
The situation is complex. Less than a decade ago, six Mexicans migrated to the United States for every Indian or Chinese. But as Mexico has prospered, immigration has dropped. Meanwhile, as India and China have gotten richer, the number of Indians and Chinese living abroad has doubled.
这个问题其实颇为复杂。不到10年前，移往美国的墨西哥公民的人数是印度人或中国人的六倍。不过，随着墨西哥经济的发展，去往美国的人数在减少。与此同时，中印两国变得更为发达，移居海外的人口却翻番了。
Some of the Asian immigrants are quite wealthy. According to the China International Immigration Report, among Chinese with assets of more than $16 million, 27 percent had emigrated abroad and an additional 47 percent were considering such a move. The real estate website Soufun.net surveyed 5,000 people and found that 41 percent of such people were drawn to move abroad for better living conditions, 35 percent for better educational opportunities for their children and 15 percent for better retirement conditions.
有些亚洲移民相当富足。根据《中国国际移民报告》统计的数据，净资产超过亿元人民币的中国人中，27%已移居国外，还有47%在考虑移民。地产网站Soufun.net对5000人进行了问卷调查，结果发现，这类人群中，41%将更好的生活条件列为吸引他们移民的理由，35%是为了子女获得更优质的教育机会，还有15%是为了更优渥的退休环境。
And this talent pool has barely been tapped. According to a Gallup survey in 2012, 22 million Chinese wanted to move to the U.S., as did 10 million Indians, 3 million Vietnamese and a surprising 5 million Japanese.
这样的人才库一直鲜被我们善加利用。盖洛普在2012年进行的一项调查显示，有2200万中国人希望移居美国，而印度和越南的人数分别为1000万和300万。出人意料的是，日本也有500万。
In short, it might be time to revise our stereotypes about the immigration issue. A thousand years ago, a few English noblemen unwittingly heralded in a decentralized political and intellectual model. This model was deepened over the centuries by people ranging from Henry VIII to the American founding fathers. It’s a model that is relatively friendly to outsider talent. We didn’t earn this model; we’re the lucky inheritors.
简而言之，是时候修正我们在移民问题上的成见了。1000年以前，有那么几位英格兰贵族无意间开创了权力分散的政治与思维模式。经过了从亨利八世到美国建国先贤的多个世纪的发展，这一模式得以不断深化。它对外来人才较为友好，而我们能有这个模式并非出于自身的努力，而是出于幸运的继承。
Meanwhile, globalization, with all its stresses and strains, has created a large international class of middle-class dreamers: university graduates who can’t fulfill their aspirations at home and who would enrich whatever nation is lucky enough to have them.
与此同时，尽管全球化带来了这样那样的压力与冲突，它也在全球范围内创造出了一个规模庞大的心怀梦想的中产阶级。他们有高校学位，不能在本土实现自身的抱负，却能为移居的国家做出巨大贡献。不管他们去往何方，都是接收国的幸运。