LONDON — The stunning parliamentary defeat Thursday for Prime Minister David Cameron that led him to rule out British military participation in any strike on Syria reflected British fears of rushing to act against Damascus without certain evidence.
伦敦——本周四，英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)在国会的投票中意外受挫。这迫使他做出表态，称不会让英国军队参与任何针对叙利亚的军事打击。表决结果也反映出，英国对缺乏确凿证据就匆忙对叙利亚采取行动存在担忧。
By just 13 votes, British lawmakers rejected an anodyne motion urging an international response to a chemical weapons strike for which the United States has blamed the forces of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.
英国议员们以仅仅13票之差否决了一项没有料到会引起争论的动议。美国指责叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)的部队使用了化学武器，该动议敦促国际社会对这一事件做出回应。
The vote, and Mr. Cameron’s pledge to honor it, is a blow to President Obama. Like nearly all presidents since the Vietnam War, he has relied on Britain to be shoulder-to-shoulder with Washington in any serious military or security engagement.
卡梅伦承诺尊重这次投票的结果，对于美国总统奥巴马来说，这个表决结果是一个打击。就像越战以后几乎所有美国总统一样，奥巴马在所有重大军事或安全行动上也一直有赖于英国对美国肩并肩的支持。
But Mr. Obama’s efforts to marshal a unified international front for a short, punitive strike raised concerns about the evidence, reawakening British resentment over false assurances from the American and British governments that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction.
奥巴马希望组成统一的国际阵线，对叙利亚展开一次为期不长的惩罚性打击，但这引发了人们对证据的疑虑，也再次唤醒了英国人的不满。因为美英两国政府曾经做出过错误的保证，信誓旦旦地说萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)拥有大规模杀伤性武器。
Even on Thursday, a British summary of intelligence could say only that it was “highly likely” Mr. Assad’s forces were responsible for the use of chemical weapons. And many questions were raised, both Thursday night and in the days before, about whether the American assurances could be taken at face value, whether the expected riposte would accomplish any serious strategic or policy aim, and whether it might set off a worse regional conflict.
即使是在周四，一份英国情报摘要也只是说，阿萨德的部队“极有可能”对使用化学武器负有责任。无论是在周四晚上还是在之前几天，人们都产生了很多疑问：美国的保证是否可以信以为真，预期的打击行动能否达成任何重要的战略或政策目的，是否又会掀起愈加严重的地区冲突。
The government had seemed only days from joining the United States and France in cruise-missile strikes on Syrian targets, even though a United Nations Security Council resolution authorizing force was out of reach, because of Russia and China.
投票之前，英国政府的表现仿佛像是数日之内就会与美国和法国一道，对叙利亚目标实施巡航导弹打击，即便由于俄罗斯和中国的反对，联合国安理会授权采取武力行动的决议似乎遥不可及。
Mr. Cameron had yielded to the opposition Labour Party’s demands for a separate, second vote to authorize military force, to be held only after the report of United Nations weapons inspectors now at work in Syria. It was widely expected that Mr. Cameron would win Thursday night’s relatively meaningless vote on a motion supporting the notion that the chemical attack required an international humanitarian response that could involve military action. Instead, it was rejected 285 to 272.
卡梅伦之前对反对党工党(Labour Party)的要求做出了让步，即要单独经过第二次投票才能授权动武，而且要等正在叙利亚工作的联合国武器检查人员公开调查报告之后，才进行第二次投票。人们普遍预期，周四晚上卡梅伦将赢得国会对这个动议的投票支持；它相对来说没有多大意义，讲的是对于这次化学武器攻击，需要做出可能涉及军事行动的国际人道主义回应。然而它却以285票反对，272票赞成的结果被否决了。
After the shocking defeat, Mr. Cameron was clear. “I strongly believe in the need for a tough response to the use of chemical weapons,” he said. “While the House has not passed a motion, it is clear to me that the British Parliament, reflecting the views of the British people, does not want to see British military action. I get that, and the government will act accordingly.”
在遭受令人震惊的失败后，卡梅伦清楚表明了态度。“我坚信，我们需要对化学武器的使用做出强硬回应，”他说。“下议院否决这项动议时，我很清楚，英国国会反映了英国人民的意见，他们不希望看到英国采取军事行动。我明白这一点，政府将据此行事。”
The defeat, a sign of Mr. Cameron’s weakness, was also a tactical victory for the often-criticized Labour leader, Ed Miliband. But in larger terms, it is also a measure of Britain’s increasing isolation from its allies — both inside the European Union and now with Washington.
这次失败，不仅显示了卡梅伦的软弱，也是屡受诟病的工党领袖埃德·米利班德(Ed Miliband)获得的一次战术胜利。但从更大的视角来看，它也是英国与其盟国日益疏远一个体现——无论是在欧盟内部，还是现在跟华盛顿之间。
A strong anti-European wave on the British right led Mr. Cameron to promise a referendum on continued British membership in the European Union. And there is deep skepticism of Washington’s foreign policy, especially after the long, costly wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
英国右翼出现了一股强烈的反欧浪潮，使得卡梅伦承诺对英国是否要继续留在欧盟进行全民公投。英国人对华盛顿的外交政策也深感怀疑，尤其是经过周期长、代价高昂的伊拉克和阿富汗战争以来。
“The prime minister knew that the well had been poisoned by Iraq, but I don’t think he realized how much that was the case,” a Conservative legislator said, asking for anonymity. “They trust Cameron but not necessarily the advice he is being given.”
“首相知道伊拉克战争影响了民意，但我觉得，他并没有意识到具体状况是怎样的，”一位要求不披露姓名的保守党(Conservative)议员说。“人们信任卡梅伦，但不一定相信别人给他提供的建议。”
The vote took Britain into new constitutional territory, the lawmaker added, with Parliament effectively vetoing military action. Political recriminations are likely. But there was little disguising the humiliation for Mr. Cameron, who recalled Parliament specifically for a motion that he first watered down, then lost.
这位议员继续说，国会在这次投票中实质上否决了军事行动，让英国面对了一个新的宪法问题。这件事可能会遭到政治上的指责。但是卡梅伦这次丢脸丢得很明显：他召回了国会，为一个经过软化的动议投票，结果却失败了。
There is also a deep wariness here of using military force without the explicit backing of international law, expressed most clearly in a Security Council resolution, though without one, Britain participated fully in the NATO campaign to unseat Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya.
英国人对于没有明确的国际法支持就使用武力也怀有很深的戒心，而最明确的国际法支持就是安理会(Security Council)决议。不过即便没有安理会决议，英国也全面参与了北约在利比亚推翻穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Muammar el-Qaddafi)的行动。
Sir Edward Leigh, a Conservative, said Britain should not allow American assurances to influence its decisions. He was particularly concerned with “the fate of the Christians” in Syria should Mr. Assad fall. And he asked whether the impact of military action would be sufficient to justify the likely deaths.
保守党议员爱德华·李爵士(Sir Edward Leigh)说，英国不应该让美国的保证来影响自己的决定。他尤其关注的是，一旦阿萨德下台，叙利亚“基督徒的命运”会如何。他也问道，军事行动的影响是否利大于弊，值得付出伤亡的代价。
However, Malcolm Rifkind, a former foreign and defense secretary who is chairman of Parliament’s Intelligence and Security Committee, said, “There is no guarantee that a military strike against military targets will work, but there is every certainty that if we do not make that effort to punish and deter, these actions will indeed continue.”
然而，曾任英国外交大臣、国防大臣，现任下议院情报和安全委员会主席的马尔科姆·里夫金德(Malcolm Rifkind)说，“针对军事目标的军事打击行动是否会奏效，是没有保证的。但可以肯定的是，如果我们不采取惩罚和威慑行动，这样的事情一定会继续发生。”