LONDON — It was a genteel campaign to ensure that British bank notes would continue to carry images of women, and it could have ended with the announcement last month that Jane Austen, the much-beloved novelist, would replace Charles Darwin on the £10 note.
伦敦——确保女性头像继续出现在英国纸币上本是一场优雅的运动，而且，上个月英国人宣布将在10英镑纸币上用深受人们喜爱的小说家简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)取代查尔斯·达尔文(Charles Darwin)，本应可以为这场运动画上句号。
Instead, a countercampaign of online harassment, including threats of rape and death, against several high-profile women here turned so nasty that Twitter took steps this weekend to tighten its global policy on reporting abuse.
然而网络上却掀起了一场反对行动，对几位知名女性进行网上骚扰，包括发出强奸和死亡威胁，事态发展到如此恶劣的程度，以至于Twitter不得不在本周末采取措施，加强其关于举报污言秽语的全球政策。
There has been plenty of pride, but also a good dose of prejudice, as a small band of feminists in period costumes has initiated a national debate about power, rape and the limits of free speech in the age of social media.
几位穿着特定历史时期服饰的女性主义者发起了一场关于权力、性侵以及社交媒体时代言论自由边界的全国性辩论。这期间，我们看到了不少的傲慢与偏见。
Caroline Criado-Perez, a blogger and co-founder of the Web site The Women’s Room, began her campaign months ago when she realized that soon there might be no women — except Queen Elizabeth II, of course — left on British bank notes. The issue seemed urgent: in April, the Bank of England had announced that the only woman currently featured among five historical figures, the social reformer Elizabeth Fry, would be replaced by Winston Churchill, indisputably male.
数月前，当意识到英国纸币上可能很快就不再有女性形象后——当然，除了伊丽莎白二世女皇(Queen Elizabeth II)之外，“女性空间”(The Women’s Room)网站联合创始人、博主卡罗琳·克利亚多-佩雷兹(Caroline Criado-Perez)发起了这场运动。这事看上去很紧急：4月，英国央行英格兰银行(Bank of England)宣布，英国纸币上五位历史人物中的唯一女性、社会改革家伊丽莎白·弗莱(Elizabeth Fry)的头像将被温斯顿·丘吉尔(Winston Churchill)所取代，一个毫无疑问的男性。
Surely, Ms. Criado-Perez argued, there were enough women of note in British history to find at least one more?
克利亚多-佩雷兹说，英国历史上有这么多著名女性，当然能至少再找到一位，将其头像印到英国纸币上。
In case the bank lacked inspiration, she led a group of campaigners dressed up as the suffragist Emmeline Pankhurst, the novelist George Eliot (born Mary Ann Evans) and the Celtic warrior queen Boadicea, who fought Roman invaders in A.D. 60. Ms. Criado-Perez, 29, hand-delivered more than 35,000 signatures supporting her cause to the bank’s doorstep in London and collected nearly $20,000 in donations to mount a legal challenge should the “men of the bank” (there are no women on the nine-member committee that sets interest rates) ignore the 2010 Equality Act obliging public institutions to keep in mind the goal of gender equality in all matters that they decide.
担心英国央行没有灵感的克利亚多-佩雷兹还带领一群倡导者，装扮成女性参政权倡导者埃米琳·潘克赫斯特(Emmeline Pankhurst)、小说家乔治·艾略特（George Eliot，原名玛丽·安·伊万斯[Mary Ann Evans]）、以及在公元60年迎战罗马入侵者的凯尔特战士布狄卡(Boadicea)。29岁的克利亚多-佩雷兹将支持其运动的超过3.5万个签名亲手送到位于伦敦的英国央行门口，并筹集到近2万美元（约合12万元人民币）的捐款。如果“银行的男性”（该银行制定利率的九人委员会中没有一名女性）无视2010年《平等法》(Equality Act)中要求公共机构在做所有决定时都要谨记性别平等这一目标的规定，就将用这些捐款发起法律行动。
The departing governor of the bank, Mervyn A. King, fond of pointing out that one woman, the queen, is on the back of every bill and coin, appeared to have little time for the debate.
当时即将离任的英国央行行长默文·A·金(Mervyn A. King)总爱指出，有一名女性（女王）的头像出现在了每一种纸币和硬币背面，但他似乎无暇顾及这场辩论。
But in July he was replaced by a younger man, a Canadian named Mark J. Carney, the first non-Briton to run the bank in its 319-year history. Mr. Carney seized the opportunity to make a gesture.
然而，7月份，更年轻的加拿大人马克·J·卡尼(Mark J. Carney)接替了默文·金的职位，卡尼是英国央行319年历史上首位外籍行长。卡尼抓住了这个树立形象的机会。
On July 24, Mr. Carney said that it had always been the bank’s intention to include another woman among the historical figures on the bank notes, and he announced that Austen would appear on future £10 notes. He also vowed to review the whole process of choosing historical figures for the notes.
7月24日，卡尼说，银行一直以来都想将一位女性历史人物的头像印到英镑纸币上，而且他宣布，奥斯汀的头像将登上新版10英镑纸币。他还承诺将对纸币选择历史人物头像的全过程进行审核。
“A brilliant day for women,” Ms. Criado-Perez said in response.
“对女性来说，这是伟大的一天，”克利亚多-佩雷兹回应道。
But that same day on Twitter a trickle of abuse grew into a shower of crude rape and death threats against Ms. Criado-Perez at a rate of nearly one per minute. Several other women, from members of the public to members of Parliament, have also been the targets of Twitter attacks. Three female journalists received bomb threats.
然而，就在同一天，在Twitter上，对克利亚多-佩雷兹的点滴谩骂，以每分钟增加一条的速度演变成了威胁的洪流，其中包括粗鲁的强奸和死亡威胁。从公众人物到议会议员的其他几名女性，也都成了Twitter用户袭击的目标。有三名女记者接到炸弹威胁。
“I’m going to pistol whip you over and over until you lose consciousness,” one Twitter user warned Ms. Criado-Perez, threatening to “then burn ur flesh.”
“我要用枪托一次次地打你，直到你失去知觉。”一名Twitter用户警告克利亚多-佩雷兹说，他还威胁说，“之后再烧死你。”
“I will rape you tomorrow at 9pm,” a Twitter user told Stella Creasy, a Labour Party legislator. “Shall we meet near your house?”
一名Twitter用户对工党(Labour Party)议员斯黛拉·克里希(Stella Creasy)说，“我要在明晚9点强奸你。我们是不是在你家附近见面？”
Two men, ages 21 and 25, have been arrested so far in connection with the harassment. Scotland Yard’s electronic-crime unit is investigating the Twitter attacks involving mostly anonymous Internet users, so-called trolls.
迄今为止，有两名年龄分别为21和25岁的男子已因涉嫌骚扰而被捕。苏格兰场(Scotland Yard)的电子犯罪处正在调查Twitter上的攻击帖，其中大部分攻击帖是匿名网络用户发出的，也就是所谓的网络恶棍(troll)。
Twitter, under pressure after receiving an online petition with at least 124,000 signatures, announced Saturday on its site that it was introducing a new one-click button to report abuse on every post. The new feature will help users navigate their way to an online form. The company also pledged to dedicate more staff members to identifying abusive posts and is updating its rules, stating explicitly that it will not tolerate abuse.
在接到一封至少汇集了12.4万个签名的在线请愿信之后，受到压力的Twitter于周六在其网站上宣布，它正在引入一个新的一次点击按钮，来报告每条帖子里的谩骂行为。这项新功能将帮助用户，将他们引导至一个在线论坛。公司还承诺，要分出更多人手来识别辱骂他人的帖子，还要更新Twitter的规定，明确声明Twitter不会容忍粗言秽语的行为。
Tony Wang, who runs Twitter’s British operation, posted a personal apology “to the women who have experienced abuse on Twitter.”
Twitter英国分部业务负责人托尼·王(Tony Wang)以个人名义发了一条道歉推文，“向在Twitter上遭受辱骂的女性致歉。”
The abuse is “not acceptable in the real world, and it’s not acceptable on Twitter,” he said. He added, “There is more we can and will be doing to protect our users against abuse.”
他说，谩骂“在真实世界里是不可接受的，在Twitter上也是不可接受的。我们能够且将会采取更多措施来保护用户，使他们免受辱骂”。
The debate highlighted a basic tension: technology has made female campaigners more vulnerable to sexist abuse, but it has also empowered them. (Ms. Criado-Perez collected her signatures on Change.org and has more than 24,600 followers on Twitter.)
这场辩论突显了一个基本的矛盾：科技让女性倡导人士更容易受到男性至上主义者的辱骂，不过，它同时也强化了女性的权力。（克利亚多-佩雷兹在Change.org网站收集到了她想要的签名，她在Twitter拥有超过2.46万名关注）。
Tanya Gold, a columnist for the British newspaper The Guardian, warned against asking social networking sites to “police our debate,” suggesting that “misogynists on Twitter should be shamed rather than criminalized.”
英国《卫报》(The Guardian)专栏作家塔尼娅·戈尔德(Tanya Gold)警告说，她反对邀请社交网络网站来“为我们的辩论维持秩序”，她表示，“在Twitter上厌恶女性的人，应该为人所不齿，而不是被当成罪犯。”
Mr. Carney and his colleagues at the Bank of England may be relieved to find that the attention of equality campaigners has for now shifted the focus away from the still overwhelmingly male world of finance.
卡尼和他在英格兰银行的同事也许松了一口气，原因是他们发现，性别平等运动转移了公众注意力，让他们暂时不再死盯着男性依然占绝对优势的金融圈子。
But few could have foreseen that Austen, a writer perhaps best known for her musings on 19th-century romance, might inadvertently become a feminist symbol.
不过，没有几个人会料到，奥斯汀可能会在无意之中成为女性主义者的一个象征，这位作家最出名的作品可能要属那些对19世纪爱情的沉思。
“She has a wide popular and a varied political appeal,” said Devoney Looser, a professor of English at Arizona State University and an Austen specialist. “Unlike someone like Emmeline Pankhurst, it’s more difficult to slot Austen politically. She’s embraced by conservatives and progressives both.”
亚利桑那州立大学(Arizona State University)文学教授德沃尼·卢瑟(Devoney Looser)说，“她有广受欢迎的魅力和多元化的政治吸引力。和埃米琳·潘克赫斯特等人不同，你更加难以从政治上定位奥斯汀。保守派和进步派都乐于接纳她。”