SEOUL, South Korea — Hong Yoon-hee had an extraordinary tale to tell, to anyone who would listen, about how he risked his life trying to save South Korea during a pivotal moment in the Korean War but was then condemned to death and had to flee to the United States.
韩国首尔——洪胤熹（Hong Yoon-hee，音译）有一段非同凡响的经历，要述说给任何愿意洗耳恭听的人，这段经历事关他如何冒着生命危险，设法在朝鲜战争的关键时刻拯救了韩国，可是事后，他却被判处死刑，被迫逃往美国。
His plan, he said, was to clear his name.
他曾说，准备还自己一个清白。
Last year, after years of scouring military archives in the United States and South Korea and filing petitions and lawsuits, Mr. Hong achieved that goal. In February, a court in Seoul overturned his 1950 conviction of treason for fighting for North Korea.
去年，洪胤熹达到了目的，此前多年，他一直在美国和韩国查阅军事档案、提出申诉和诉讼。2月，首尔的一家法院推翻了1950年对他的判决，当时，他因为为朝鲜作战被判处叛国罪。
Mr. Hong, 83, said in an interview that his quest was only half over, however. Now, he wants to be recognized as a hero.
然而，现年83岁的洪胤熹在一次采访中说，他的目的只达成了一半。目前，他希望自己能被确认为一个英雄。
“For 63 years, I lived with the stigma of being a traitor,” said Mr. Hong, who lives in California but remains a South Korean citizen and has visited Seoul frequently. “The truth is I helped save South Korea during one of its most critical times.”
“63年了，我一直顶着叛徒的污名生活。”洪胤熹说，他住在加利福尼亚州，不过依然保留着韩国国籍，并不时地造访首尔。“事情的真相是，在韩国最关键的一个时刻，我出手相助，拯救了国家。”
When North Korea invaded the South in June 1950, Mr. Hong was a sergeant in the South Korean Army. He was among those trapped in Seoul when President Syngman Rhee fled south and the Han River bridge was bombed behind him, cutting off the evacuation route.
1950年6月，朝鲜入侵韩国时，洪胤熹是韩国陆军的一名中士。时任韩国总统李承晚(Syngman Rhee)逃往南方，在他逃离后，汉江桥被炸毁，疏散路线因此被切断，于是洪胤熹就成了坐困首尔的一员。
Mr. Hong said he had been desperate to catch up with the retreating South Korean troops. A friend, who turned out to be an underground Communist, suggested that Mr. Hong join the advancing North Koreans and then defect to South Korea at the front line. So Mr. Hong approached the North Koreans, claiming to be a brother of the North Korean vice prime minister, Hong Myong-hee. (They were, in fact, distant cousins.)
洪胤熹说，他曾拼命追赶正在撤退的韩国军队。一位朋友建议他加入节节推进的朝鲜军队，然后临阵倒戈，回到韩国军队。后来证实，这人是共产党的一名地下党员。于是，洪胤熹主动接近朝鲜人，声称自己是朝鲜副总理洪命熹(Hong Myong-hee)的兄弟（实际上，他们是远房堂兄弟）。
By August, Mr. Hong’s North Korean unit was approaching the Pusan perimeter, the defense line American and South Korean troops had built around southeastern South Korea. Then one day, he said, he heard that the North Korean leader, Kim Il-sung, had ordered a general offensive in early September in an all-out attempt to break through the perimeter and win the war.
当年8月，洪命熹所在的朝鲜部队正在靠近釜山周边地区，那里是美韩军队围绕韩国东南区域设立的防线。洪胤熹说，后来有一天，他听说朝鲜领导人金日成(Kim Il-sung)已命令一名将领在9月初发动全面进攻，竭尽全力攻破釜山防线，赢得战争。
“I couldn’t wait,” Mr. Hong said. “I might be killed crossing the front lines, but if the North won the war, my identity would be exposed and that would be the end of me, too.”
洪胤熹说，“我不能再等了，我也许会在穿越前线时被杀，可是，如果朝鲜赢得战争，我的身份就会暴露，我也会就此完蛋。”
ON the night of Aug. 31, 1950, he slipped away. The next morning, he saw South Korean soldiers and shouted that he had urgent information. He was debriefed for hours by an American intelligence officer.
1950年8月31日晚，他逃了出去。第二天早晨，他看到了韩国军人，并大声呼喊，称自己有紧急情报。而后，他被一名美国情报官员盘问了几个小时。
On Sept. 11, after he had returned to his old South Korean unit, the military police accused him of being a Communist spy.
他回到了原来所属的韩国部队中，之后，也就是9月11日，韩国宪兵队指控他是一名共产党间谍。
Mr. Hong was tortured and sentenced to death, but his lawyer, an old acquaintance, appealed to the judge, who reduced the sentence to life imprisonment.
洪胤熹遭到严刑拷打，并被判处死刑，不过，他的律师，也是他的故交，向法官提出上诉，后者将判决减至无期徒刑。
He was released in 1955, two years after the war ended, but remained under police surveillance. In 1973, fearing arrest under newly tightened security laws, he and his wife moved to the United States, where he ran a supermarket and a restaurant.
就在战争结束两年后的1955年，洪胤熹获释，但他依然处于警方的监控之下。1973年，由于担忧新出台的安全法加紧控制，自己会因此被捕，他和妻子移民到了美国，在那里经营一家超市和一家饭馆。
“I didn’t tell even my wife about my past because I didn’t want to burden my family with the stigma,” he said. “I thought that the information I provided in 1950 must have turned out to be wrong and that was the reason I was punished.”
“我甚至都没有告诉妻子我的过去，因为我不想让家人蒙受耻辱，”他说。“我从前以为，我在1950年提供的信息肯定是错误的，这是我受到惩罚的原因。”
In 1994, Mr. Hong found out that the United States military’s official history of the Korean War credited a North Korean defector, Maj. Kim Song-jun, with providing the crucial information about the 1950 offensive. The South Korean military’s history also cited Major Kim, calling his tip “so well-timed that the U.S. Eighth Army could alert all front-line units to be prepared for the enemy attack.”
1994年，洪胤熹发现美国军方有关朝鲜战争的官方历史记录称朝鲜叛变人员金圣俊少校（Kim Song-jun，音译）提供了有关1950年的攻势的重要信息。韩国军方的历史记录也提到了此人，称他提供的消息“非常及时，因此美国第八集团军(U.S. Eighth Army)得以提醒所有前线部队准备迎接敌人的攻击”。
But the more Mr. Hong researched Major Kim, the more skeptical he became. Major Kim’s debriefing report said only that he “heard a general offensive was to start.” And that debriefing took place days after the offensive had begun.
但洪胤熹对金少校研究得越多就越发怀疑。金少校的盘问记录只是说，他“听说朝鲜将开始发动一场全面进攻”。而且他是在攻击行动开始后几天才进行了汇报。
Major Kim, who returned to the North in a prisoner exchange in 1953, “seemed to be getting the credit due to me,” Mr. Hong said.
金少校在1953年的囚犯交换项目中回到了朝鲜，洪胤熹表示，他“似乎是因为我才得到了称赞”。
In 2000, the South Korean government’s Institute for Military History Compilation admitted that citing Major Kim as the source of the warning was an error. Mr. Hong also found his 1950 court-martial records, which contained mistakes, too. In the section on his treason conviction, the records said that he had fought South Korean troops on Sept. 3, 1950. But by then, he was back with his South Korean unit.
2000年，韩国政府军方历史编篡委员会(Institute for Military History Compilation)承认，称金少校是情报信息来源是错误的。洪胤熹还发现了1950年自己在军事法庭的记录，其中包含一些错误信息。记录中有关叛国罪定罪的部分称他曾在1950年9月3日，攻击韩国部队。但那时候，他已经回归韩国部队。
Despite the errors in the records, in 2007, the South Korean Supreme Court rejected Mr. Hong’s appeal for a retrial, citing lack of evidence.
尽管记录存在错误，韩国最高法院(South Korean Supreme Court)于2007年拒绝了洪胤熹要求复审的上诉申请，声称缺少证据。
Then in 2011, in the archives at the National Institute of Korean History in Seoul, he found a 1954 memo by Lt. Col. Roy E. Appleman, who wrote part of the official American history of the war.
到了2011年，他在位于首尔的韩国国史编篡委员会(National Institute of Korean History)档案馆中发现了罗伊·E·阿普尔曼中校(Lt. Col. Roy E. Appleman)1954年的备忘录，阿普尔曼中校撰写了美国有关朝鲜战争的官方历史的部分内容。
Colonel Appleman said in the memo that he learned from American intelligence sources that Mr. Hong defected on Sept. 1, 1950, and gave a report on a planned North Korean offensive, which was relayed to the Far East Command in Tokyo.
阿普尔曼中校在备忘录中写道，他通过美国的情报来源得知，洪胤熹于1950年9月1日叛变，并汇报了朝鲜的攻击计划，信息被转达给东京的远东司令部(Far East Command)。
But Colonel Appleman also wrote that he could not find Mr. Hong’s records and thought that Mr. Hong had been executed. Unable to confirm his role, he decided to cite Major Kim instead “due to the urgency” of publication deadlines.
但阿普尔曼中校还写道，他无法找到洪胤喜的记录，以为他已经被处死。由于无法确认洪胤喜的角色，而且出版截止日期“已经迫近”，阿普尔曼决定使用金少校的名字。
That memo proved crucial to winning the retrial that cleared Mr. Hong’s name. In its February verdict, the Seoul district court praised his “long struggle to shed light on the Korean War and prove his innocence.”
结果证明，这份备忘录在赢得复审，清洗洪胤熹罪名方面发挥了重要作用。首尔地方法院在2月份公布了判决书，称赞洪胤熹“长期以来努力还原有关朝鲜战争的真相，并证明了自己的清白。”
BUT should Mr. Hong be recognized as a war hero?
但洪胤熹应该被认作战争英雄吗？
The Institute for Military History Compilation said that the allied forces had already anticipated the North Korean offensive from their own intelligence reports. The institute’s historians said they could not assess Mr. Hong’s contribution until the debriefing records were found.
军方历史编篡委员会表示，盟军已经通过自己的情报报告得知了朝鲜的攻击计划。该委员会的历史学家表示，在找到讯问记录之前，他们无法评估洪胤熹的贡献。
But Mr. Hong insists that after reading thousands of pages of prisoner-of-war debriefings, he was the only one who crossed the front lines 63 years ago with the crucial information at that critical time.
但洪胤熹坚称，在读完数千页的战俘讯问记录后，他发现自己是63年前唯一一个在那个关键时刻携带重要信息跨越前线的人。
“I’m convinced that I was a savior to the allied forces,” he said.
他说，“我确信自己拯救了盟军。”