It may be true that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. But a popular filmmaker in New York was not flattered when he learned that part of his movie had been recut and used as a motivational video for Apple employees.
模仿是一种最真诚的奉承，这话或许没错。但纽约一名人气颇高的电影制作人在得知自己的电影被部分重新剪辑，制作成一段面向苹果(Apple)员工的励志视频时，却高兴不起来。
The video, “The Dark Side of the iPhone 5S Lines,” was a lighthearted documentary by Casey Neistat on the pains people endured while waiting in line for the new iPhone 5S. One woman in the film, for example, wrapped herself in a garbage bag to stay warm while sleeping on the ground. The video has had more than three million views on YouTube.
视频《iPhone 5S排队黑暗面》(The Dark Side of the iPhone 5S Lines)是卡塞伊·奈斯塔特(Casey Neistat)拍摄的一部轻快的纪录片，记录人们餐风露宿、苦等新款iPhone 5S发售的经历。比如，片中一名女士在地上睡觉时用垃圾袋包着自己取暖。这段视频在YouTube上被观看了300多万次。
The tweaked version of the movie was sent internally at Apple on Sept. 30 to some customer service representatives to thank them for their hard work on the latest iPhone introduction, according to an Apple employee who received the video and would speak only anonymously for fear of being fired. The video was sent specifically to customer care officials who focus on troubleshooting iOS, Apple’s mobile operating system, meaning it may have reached thousands of employees.
苹果公司对这部影片进行改编后，9月30号在公司内部发送给一些客服代表，感谢他们在公司推出最新款iPhone期间的辛勤工作——这是一名收到视频的苹果雇员透露的，他因担心被炒而要求匿名。这段视频被定向发送给那些专门负责解决苹果iOS移动设备操作系统问题的客服人员，这意味着有数千员工收到了这段视频。
In the version of the movie sent around the company, the video is played in fast motion with catchy music while headlines about the product introduction scroll across the screen. Mr. Neistat’s name, which is in the upper-right hand corner of the original movie, is removed in the edited version. (But the woman who wrapped herself in a plastic bag remains.)
在苹果公司内部分发的电影版本中，视频以加快的速度播放，配有动听的音乐，同时关于这款产品亮相的新闻标题在屏幕上滚动。这段经过剪辑的视频抹掉了原版中位于右上角的奈斯塔特的名字。（但是那个用塑料袋裹住自己的女士还在。）
Mr. Neistat, a longtime Apple fan who also waited in line for the original iPhone six years ago, found the reinterpretation of his movie ironic and offensive.
奈斯塔特一直是苹果产品的粉丝，6年前他曾排队购买最初的iPhone，他认为对自己电影的这种改编具有讽刺意味，冒犯了他。
“I’ve never had my work stolen so adversely as this,” Mr. Neistat said. “They stripped all my branding off it and put their own name on it in such a harsh way.”
奈斯塔特说，“我的作品从来没有被这么恶劣地窃取过。他们将我的所有标识清除掉，然后将自己的名字放上去，太肆无忌惮了。”
Apple declined to comment.
苹果公司拒绝对此置评。
Though the edited video shows an Apple logo at the end of the clip, it does not have the high polish seen in official Apple videos. It even contains an unintelligible typo — “Additional Hours Reguirements Met” — near the end.
经剪辑的视频虽然在结尾时显示了苹果公司的标识，但这个标识不如苹果官方视频上那么光鲜。接近结束时，视频上甚至还出现不知所云且拼写错误的字样“Additional Hours Reguirements Met”。
The video was pulled from Apple’s server a week after it was sent, according to the customer service employee.
上述苹果客服员工称，该视频在发送一周后从苹果服务器上撤下。
Apple is renowned for its tight oversight of its products and employees, who help keep its products and plans secret. But Apple’s customer service operations operate in a much more ad hoc fashion. One customer care program, called Apple At-Home Advisors, employs people around the world who work from home. The advisers get a free iMac and full benefits, and they take phone calls from customers looking for help with products, according to Apple’s Web site. That is still tighter control of customer care than many American companies, which often outsource customer care to call centers in the Philippines and India.
苹果公司以严格管控产品和员工而闻名，员工帮助公司保守产品和计划秘密。但是苹果客服部门的运营松散得多。一个叫做苹果家庭顾问(Apple At-Home Advisors)的客服项目在世界各地雇佣员工在家为该公司工作。根据苹果官网描述，这些顾问可以免费得到一台iMac和全部福利，他们负责接听寻求产品帮助的客户电话。与很多美国公司相比，这仍是对客服的更严格管控，很多美国公司往往把客服外包给菲律宾和印度的呼叫中心。