Apple this week made two major changes to its operations in China. The company said it had for the first time begun storing user data on servers in mainland China. It also barred the use of two potentially harmful chemicals that some factory workers had handled during assembly of iPhones and iPads.
本周，苹果公司(Apple)对在中国的运营做出了两项重大调整。苹果公司表示，首次将用户数据保存在了位于中国大陆的服务器上。另外，苹果还禁止使用两种可能具有危害性的化学品，此前某些工厂工人在组装iPhone和iPad时会接触这两种化学品。
Apple on Friday said it had begun storing user data on servers provided by China Telecom, the No. 3 Chinese carrier. The purpose of storing the data in China, Apple said, was to improve performance of its online storage service, iCloud. Apple also noted that the data would be secure and China Telecom would not have access to the content.
苹果公司周五表示，已经开始在由中国第三大移动运营商中国电信提供的服务器上储存用户数据。苹果表示，在中国存储数据的目的是，改进其在线存储服务iCloud的性能。苹果公司还提到，数据是安全的，而且中国电信无法访问数据的内容。
“Apple takes user security and privacy very seriously,” said Trudy Muller, an Apple spokeswoman, in a statement. “We have added China Telecom to our list of data center providers to increase bandwidth and improve performance for our customers in mainland China. All data stored with our providers is encrypted, China Telecom does not have access to the content.”
“苹果十分重视用户的安全和隐私，”苹果公司的女发言人特鲁迪·穆勒(Trudy Muller)在一份声明中表示。“我们将中国电信添加到了数据中心供应商的列表中，目的是为中国大陆的用户增加带宽、改进性能。在供应商处存储的所有数据都经过加密，中国电信没有访问数据内容的权限。”
Apple earlier this week said it had eliminated two chemicals — n-hexane and benzene — from use in assembly of its products. In 2011, an internal audit found that n-hexane, a chemical used to clean the touch-screen glass panels of the iPhone, had injured 137 workers at a factory. Benzene, a chemical used for cleaning and coating components, has been linked to problems with reproduction.
本周早些时候，苹果还表示在组装产品的过程中会停止使用两种化学品——正己烷和苯。2011年的一次内部审核发现，一家工厂里曾有137名工人因正己烷而受伤，这种化学品被用来清洗iPhone的触摸屏玻璃面板。而用于清洗和为零部件添加涂层的苯，已被证实与生殖问题有关。
Apple said in a report that it had recently investigated 22 of its final assembly facilities in response to complaints about n-hexane and benzene. It found that 18 facilities had not used the chemicals at all, and the facilities using the chemicals had adhered to safety guidelines so that worker health was not at risk. Apple said it had prohibited the chemicals anyway.
苹果在一份报告中表示，该公司为了回应涉及正己烷和苯的投诉，调查了旗下22个最终装配厂。调查发现其中18家工厂完全没有使用这些化学品，几个使用这些化学品的工厂则遵循了安全指南，所以工人的健康没有面临风险。尽管如此，苹果还是宣布禁止了这些化学品。
Greenpeace International, the environmental activist nonprofit, said in a blog post that while Apple’s move was a step forward, many potentially harmful chemicals are still being used to produce electronics.
非营利性环保活动组织绿色和平国际(Greenpeace International)在一篇博客文章中说道，尽管苹果的举动是一项进展，但是在生产电子产品的过程中，仍在使用很多具有潜在危害的化学品。