Whether they realize it or not, all of those who swipe a finger down from the top of the iPhone’s screen to check for notifications are bearing witness to a big sore point within Apple.
所有曾用手指从iPhone屏幕顶端往下滑动查看提示的用户都见证了苹果的一个心病，不管他们意识到了没有。
There, behind a list of text messages, missed phone calls and other updates, is a gray background with the unmistakable texture of fine linen.
在几条短信、未接来电和其他更新的信息之下，灰色的背景毫无疑问是细麻布的质感。
Steven P. Jobs, the Apple chief executive who died a year ago, pushed the company’s software designers to use the linen texture liberally in the software for the company’s mobile devices. He did the same with many other virtual doodads that mimic the appearance and behavior of real-world things, like wooden shelves for organizing newspapers and the page-flipping motion of a book, according to people who worked with him but declined to be named to avoid Apple’s ire.
在一年前去世的前苹果首席执行官史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)的推动下，苹果的软件设计师们在该公司的移动设备软件中大量使用了细麻布质感的设计。据曾和乔布斯共事的人说，在许多其他虚拟小物件中，乔布斯也采取了同样的手法，模仿现实世界事物的外观和动作，比如用来摆放报纸的木书架和书翻页的动作，为避免招致苹果不满，这些人要求不具名。
The management shake-up that Apple announced on Monday is likely to mean that Apple will shift away from such visual tricks, which many people within the company look down upon. As part of the changes, the company fired Scott Forstall, the leader of Apple’s mobile software development and a disciple of Mr. Jobs. While Mr. Forstall’s abrasive style and resistance to collaboration with other parts of the company were the main factors in his undoing, the change also represents the departure of the most vocal and high-ranking proponent of the visual design style favored by Mr. Jobs.
苹果周一宣布的人事变动，可能意味着苹果今后将不再使用这样的视觉效果，公司内部许多人也对这种风格嗤之以鼻。作为管理层人事调整的一部分，公司解雇了苹果移动软件开发主管、乔布斯的得意门生斯科特·福斯特尔(Scott Forstall)。尽管福斯特尔冷漠的行事风格、不愿和公司其他部门合作的特点，是其遭解雇的主要原因，但此次变动也意味着，乔布斯所推崇的外观设计风格最高调、最高层级的拥护者将要离开苹果。
The executive who will now set the direction for the look of Apple’s software is Jonathan Ive, who has long been responsible for Apple’s minimalist hardware designs. Mr. Ive, despite his close relationship with Mr. Jobs, has made his distaste for the visual ornamentation in Apple’s mobile software known within the company, according to current and former Apple employees who asked not to be named discussing internal matters.
今后，苹果软件外观设计的走向将交给乔纳森·艾夫(Jonathan Ive)掌管，艾夫长期以来一直负责苹果极简主义的硬件设计。据一些在任的和离职的苹果员工说，尽管艾夫和乔布斯关系密切，但他曾在公司里公开表示，并不欣赏苹果移动软件的视觉装饰。由于在讨论内部事务，这些人要求不具名。
This may seem like little more than an internal disagreement over taste. But Apple venerates design like few other companies of its size, and its customers have rewarded it handsomely as a result. Apple’s decisions can influence how millions of people use and think about digital devices — not only its own but those made by other companies that look to Apple as a standard-setter in design.
这可能看上去仅仅是苹果内部在设计品味上的分歧。然而，苹果对设计的倚重几乎超过任何一家与其规模相当的公司，而消费者也对其设计给予了慷慨的回报。苹果的决定能影响千百万人使用和看待数码设备的方式——不仅是苹果自己生产的产品，还有其他将苹果视为设计标准制定者的企业所生产的产品。
Axel Roesler, associate professor and chairman of the interaction design program at the University of Washington, says Apple’s software designs had become larded with nostalgia, unnecessary visual references to the past that he compared to Greek columns in modern-day architecture. He said he would like to see Mr. Ive take a fresh approach.
华盛顿大学(University of Washington)交互设计专业负责人、副教授阿克塞尔·勒斯勒尔(Axel Roesler)说，苹果的软件设计穿插了过多的怀旧感，以及代表过去事物外观的、不必要的设计，就像当代建筑中使用的希腊石柱。他表示，希望看到艾夫采用全新的设计风格。
“Apple, as a design leader, is not only capable of doing this, they have a responsibility for doing it,” he said. “People expect great things from them.”
他说：“作为设计的领军者，苹果不仅有能力这么做，也有责任这么做。人们对苹果有极高的期待。”
Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, declined to comment.
苹果的发言人史蒂夫·道林(Steve Dowling)拒绝置评。
Apple’s customers do not seem to have serious qualms about the design choices the company has made as they continue to buy iPhones and iPads at a healthy clip. But within the circles of designers and technology executives outside Apple who obsess over the details of how products look and work, there has been a growing amount of grumbling in the last year that Apple’s approach is starting to look dated.
对于苹果公司在设计上的选择，消费者似乎并没有太多的质疑，iPhone和iPad的销量继续快速增长。然而过去一年，苹果公司之外的痴迷于产品外观和功能细节的设计师和技术高层们，开始越来越多地抱怨，苹果的设计理念开始看上去有些过时了。
The style favored by Mr. Forstall and Mr. Jobs is known in this crowd as skeuomorphism, in which certain images and metaphors, like a spiral-bound notebook or stitched leather, are used in software to give people a reassuring real-world reference.
福斯特尔和乔布斯推崇的设计风格被这个圈内的人称为模仿现实物品的设计(skeuomorphism)，即，将一些图像和象征物应用在软件中，比如螺旋装订的笔记本或者缝制在一起的皮革，给人们以更真实的现实感。
In contrast, Microsoft, not known as a big risk-taker, has been praised recently for taking greater creative risks in the design of its software than Apple has. It has come up with a visual style that is now used throughout its computer, mobile and game products. It relies heavily on typography and sheets of tiles that provide access to programs and are updated with photos and other online information. It is not yet clear whether this approach will be a hit with people who do not spend time thinking about design.
相比之下，向来不爱冒险的微软公司近来却因在软件设计上，比苹果更富创意、勇于冒险而受到赞誉。它创造出的一套视觉风格，现在已经广泛应用到其电脑、手机和游戏产品中。这种风格高度依赖字体和“磁贴”设计，这些磁贴可以打开程序，也会即时显示最新的图片及其他在线信息。我们还不清楚，那些对外观设计不太关注的用户是否会喜欢这种风格。
Bill Flora, a former Microsoft designer who created the earliest prototypes of its new visual style, said Apple had not been innovative enough in the design of its software. “I have found their hardware to be amazing and sophisticated, and I have found their software to be kind of old school,” said Mr. Flora, who now has his own design firm, Tectonic, in Seattle. “Their approach really wasn’t what I was taught as a designer in design school.”
前微软设计师比尔·弗洛拉(Bill Flora)设计了这套全新视觉风格的雏形。他说，苹果在其软件设计方面不够创新。他表示：“我觉得他们的硬件精巧、令人惊叹，而他们的软件则有点守旧。他们的手法和我在设计学校里学到的完全不同啊。”现在弗洛拉在西雅图开设了自己的设计师事务所Tectonic。
Even internal critics of Apple’s software designs say that some references to physical things are still useful. The trash bin on the Mac, for example, is a much-used metaphor for deleting files, one that is unlikely to go away soon. There is also a function in the new Passbook app that runs deleted loyalty and payment cards through something resembling a paper shredder. Some Apple designers see that as a good way of reinforcing the idea that potentially sensitive information has been wiped from the device.
即使是苹果公司内部对软件设计持有异议的人，也会说一些模仿现实物品的设计还是有用的。比如Mac电脑的“废纸篓”就经常被用来代表删除文件，这种指代在短期内应该还会继续沿用。新的Passbook程序中有一个功能会将已删除的会员卡、支付卡扫过一个像碎纸机的东西。一些苹果设计师认为这种设计更好地强化了一种感受，即一些有可能敏感的信息已经从设备上抹去。
But Apple causes conniptions among designers when its visual metaphors seem outdated or downright archaic. Apple’s Podcasts app for its mobile products displays a reel-to-reel tape machine, a product probably few people under 40 have ever seen.
但是当苹果的视觉比拟显得过时或十足古旧，则会引起众多设计师的愤怒。苹果针对移动产品的播客程序外观就好像是一个盘式磁带录音机，但是很少会有40岁以下的人见过这种东西。
Apple’s use of textures representing physical materials is also often ridiculed. In addition to linen, Apple has found opportunities to decorate the borders of its software, including the Calendar app on the iPad and the Find My Friends app on the iPhone, with a tan faux-animal skin that some critics have sarcastically called Corinthian leather, after the upholstery used in Chrysler cars in the 1970s.
苹果模仿现实材料的外观质感设计也常遭到奚落。除了亚麻布质感外观，苹果还在很多程序里用黄褐色的仿皮革外观装饰边框，包括iPad上的日历(Calendar)以及iPhone上的“查找我的朋友”(Find My Friends)程序，一些批评人士讽刺地将它称为科林斯革，20世纪70年代克莱斯勒汽车曾用科林斯革做内饰。
The allusions to the past also affect how certain parts of its software function. Its iBooks application organizes electronic books on a set of wood-grained shelves, and the books are thumbed through with a page-turning animation. Some designers see that and similar functions in Apple’s software as silly throwbacks to the past, plopped into advanced devices.
这些与过去的关联也决定了这些软件部分功能的运行方式。苹果的iBook程序将电子书排列在一组木纹的架子上，在翻书时也会有翻页的动画。部分设计师不认同苹果软件中的这类功能，认为这是在先进设备上回归旧时的傻设计。
“It’s like putting horses in front of a car, basically,” said Dr. Roesler of the University of Washington.
华盛顿大学的勒斯勒尔博士说：“这基本上就是把马套在汽车前面跑。”
Handing decisions about software design over to Mr. Ive, who is known almost entirely for his work in hardware, could be risky. One former Apple employee who worked in software for several years said he had never seen Mr. Ive in a meeting and suggested that Mr. Ive would have to work to win credibility among Mr. Forstall’s loyalists. This person declined to be named discussing internal matters because he did not want to antagonize Apple. 
将软件设计的决策权交给艾夫可能是有风险的，人们之前几乎只了解他在硬件方面的成就。一位曾在该公司软件部门工作数年的苹果前员工说，他从没在任何会议中见过艾夫，他还表示艾夫必须努力才能赢取福斯特尔的追随者的信任。由于讨论苹果内部事宜，此人拒绝在文中透露其姓名，他不想惹怒苹果。
But those who know him expect Mr. Ive — known to friends and colleagues as Jony — to waste little time in putting his own stamp on the look of the company’s software, including iOS for mobile devices and OS X for Macs.
但是那些认识艾夫的人认为，他会很快在该公司软件的外观设计上打上自己的烙印，包括用于移动设备的iOS，以及用于Mac电脑的OS X。朋友和同事们都把艾夫称作乔尼(Jony)。