For Apple, the words of Steven P. Jobs were often used to win negotiations. But after his death, they have proved damaging.
在过去，苹果公司(Apple)常常使用史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)的话来赢得谈判。但是，事实证明，乔布斯过世后，这些话的效果适得其反。
A federal judge on Wednesday said that some of Mr. Jobs’s words helped persuade her that Apple had violated antitrust law in conspiring with publishers to raise prices of e-books. Although it appears unlikely that the ruling will have an immediate effect on the book-buying public, it could affect how Apple cuts deals with media companies that provide the music, books and movies that help make its iPhones and iPads compelling.
周三，一位联邦法官称，由于乔布斯的一些话，她确信苹果与出版商合谋提高电子书价格，违反了反垄断法律。尽管该裁决似乎不会对购书大众产生即刻影响，但却会影响苹果与那些提供使iPhone和iPad具有吸引力的音乐、书籍及电影的公司达成交易的方式。
Charles E. Elder, an antitrust lawyer at Irell & Manella, said that the ruling could lead Apple and other technology companies negotiating with media companies to “proceed with extreme caution” to avoid any appearance of collusion.
依雷勒与曼艾拉(Irell & Manella)事务所的反垄断律师查尔斯·E·埃尔德(Charles E. Elder)说，该裁决可能导致苹果及其他技术公司与媒体公司谈判，以便“极其小心地运作”，免得给人造成合谋的印象。
On Wednesday, Apple continued to assert it had done nothing wrong, and said it would appeal the decision. A trial to determine damages will follow.
周四，苹果继续坚称自己没有任何过错，并称将就该裁决提起上诉。确定损害的审判将随后展开。
“Apple did not conspire to fix e-book pricing and we will continue to fight against these false accusations,” Tom Neumayr, an Apple spokesman, said. “When we introduced the iBookstore in 2010, we gave customers more choice, injecting much needed innovation and competition into the market, breaking Amazon’s monopolistic grip on the publishing industry.”
苹果发言人汤姆·诺伊迈尔(Tom Neumayr)称，“苹果并未阴谋操纵电子书价格，我们将继续与这种错误指责进行斗争。在2010年推出iBookstore时，我们为消费者提供了更多选择，为市场注入了亟需的创新及竞争，打破了亚马逊(Amazon)对出版业的垄断。”
In her ruling, Denise L. Cote of United States District Court in Manhattan said Apple had taken advantage of the publishers’ “fear of and frustration” over Amazon.com’s control of e-book pricing, and the tight window of opportunity in the weeks leading up to the iPad’s introduction in 2010, to get the publishers to agree to its terms. “Apple seized the moment and brilliantly played its hand,” she wrote.
曼哈顿美国地方法院(United States District Court in Manhattan)法官丹尼丝·L·科特(Denise L. Cote)称，苹果利用了出版商对于亚马逊控制电子书价格的“恐惧和焦虑”，以及2010年iPad面世之前几周的紧张期限，迫使出版商同意了自己的条款。她写道，“苹果抓住时机，打了一局好牌。”
Five major publishers had also been named in the suit, but they all settled before the trial. Apple continued to fight the charges despite what increasingly looked like uphill odds. Publicly, the company said it refused to settle as a matter of principle because it had done nothing wrong.
该案还点名提到了其他五家主要出版商，但是它们都在审判前达成了和解。尽管斗争似乎越来越艰难，苹果仍然继续反对这些指控。苹果公开拒绝和解，称这是一个原则性问题，因为苹果没有任何过错。
The main reason e-book prices will probably not move sharply in the near term is that the publishers who settled are operating under the settlement’s terms, which prohibit publishers from restricting a retailer’s ability to discount books.
电子书价格在近期内不会大幅上升，主要原因是达成和解的出版商都在和解方案条款下运作。这些条款禁止出版商限制零售商的书籍打折行为。
Since those settlements have gone into effect, prices on many newly released and best-selling e-books have gone down. 
自从这些条款生效以来，许多新发布电子书及畅销电子书的价格已经下降。
The antitrust suit underscored the turmoil in the book industry as readers shift from ink and paper to electronic devices like tablets and smartphones, where they can buy books with the push of a button. The publishers want to embrace new media, but they are also trying to protect their profits and retain control of their businesses.
在读者从阅读纸质书转向用平板电脑及智能手机等电子设备看书的过程中，这一反垄断案件突显了图书产业的乱象。在电子设备上，他们点一个按钮就能买书。出版商想利用新媒体，同时也试图保护自己的利润，并对自己的生意保持控制。
A recent survey of the publishing industry revealed that in the United States, e-books account for 20 percent of publishers’ revenue, more than $3 billion, up from 15 percent the year before. Amazon.com dominates the e-book market.
一项对于出版业的近期调查显示，在美国，电子书占到了出版商收入的20%，总额超过30亿美元，前一年则只有15%。亚马逊在电子书市场占据主导地位。
The outcome will probably inflict some damage to Apple’s reputation. The judge’s decision casts Apple as a cold and manipulative bully whose actions have harmed consumers, contrary to the way the company markets itself, as a maker of products that improve people’s lives.
这一结果多半会对苹果的声誉造成一些损害。法官的决定把苹果描绘成了一个冷酷而善于算计的恶棍，其行为伤害了消费者，这与该公司的营销形象相左，该公司一向以生产改善民众生活的产品自许。
Apple’s brand has already been under attack. Even though the company remains wildly successful, with iPhones and iPads flying off the shelves all over the world, its stock price is sagging and its tax practices and manufacturing processes have been under public scrutiny.
苹果的品牌已经受到了冲击。尽管该公司仍旧非常成功，iPhone和iPad也仍在世界各地迅速售出，但其股票价格正在下降，其税务运作和制造流程也已经受到了公众审查。
Judge Cote said e-mails and spoken statements by Mr. Jobs, the company’s charismatic leader, who died in 2011, made clear he knew publishers were unhappy with Amazon’s pricing of $9.99 for e-books, and that Apple’s entry would drive up prices across the industry.
该公司魅力超凡的领导人乔布斯死于2011年。科特法官说，乔布斯的邮件和口头声明都表明，他知道出版商对亚马逊为电子书定价9.99美元的做法不满，而苹果的进入将抬高整个行业的价格。
In one instance, Mr. Jobs made comments to a reporter after he introduced the iPad and the iBookstore in January 2010. When asked why consumers would buy an e-book from Apple’s store instead of Amazon.com, Mr. Jobs replied, “The prices will be the same.”
例子之一出现在2010年1月，介绍完iPad和iBookstore之后，乔布斯向一名记者作出了评论。被问及消费者为什么会从苹果的商店而不是亚马逊购买电子书时，乔布斯回答，“价格将会是一样的。”
The Justice Department said Apple’s deal with the publishers left Amazon.com with no choice but to raise prices. When Apple entered the e-book market, it changed the way publishers sold books by introducing a model called agency pricing, where the publisher — not the retailer — sets the price, and Apple took a cut of each sale. As a result, the publishers were able to set e-book prices higher than $9.99, the price many new books sold for on Amazon.com. Apple proposed caps of $12.99 and $14.99.
美国司法部称，苹果与出版商的交易令亚马逊别无选择，只能提高价格。进入电子书市场时，苹果改变了出版商出售图书的方式，引入了一种名为机构定价的方式，即由出版商——而不是零售商——来确定价格，苹果则从每一次销售中分一部分收入。其结果是，出版商能够把电子书的价格定得高于9.99美元，而这是亚马逊网站上许多新书的售价。苹果提出的上限是12.99美元和14.99美元。
An e-mail written by Mr. Jobs that referred to the agency model was frequently brought up at the trial. In the e-mail, sent to Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet software and services, Mr. Jobs wrote of the contracts negotiated with publishers: “I can live with this, as long as they move Amazon to the agent model too for new releases for the first year. If they don’t, I’m not sure we can be competitive.”
乔布斯的一封邮件多次出现在这次审判当中，其中说到了这种机构模式。在这封发送给负责互联网软件和服务的苹果高级副总裁埃迪·库埃(Eddy Cue)的邮件中，乔布斯就与出版商协商的合同写道：“我可以接受这一模式，只要它们能够在第一年就把提供给亚马逊的新书也转变为这一模式。如果它们不这么做，我不确定我们是否能有竞争力。”
The Justice Department said this showed Apple’s intent to help the publishers push Amazon.com to the agency model so they could raise e-book prices. Apple’s lead counsel, Orin Snyder of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, contended that the note written by Mr. Jobs was a draft. But the version presented by the Justice Department indicated that it was written at a later time and was signed “Steve,” suggesting that it was the final draft.
司法部称，这表明苹果企图帮助出版商把亚马逊推向机构模式，这样它们就可以抬高电子书价格。苹果的首席律师，吉布森、邓恩和克拉彻律师事务所(Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher)的奥林·斯奈德(Orin Snyder)辩称，乔布斯这封信只不过是一篇草稿。但司法部提供的版本显示它是在稍后的时间写成，而且署名“乔布斯”，说明这是最终稿。
Apple’s battle with the Justice Department is far from over, because antitrust trials are typically two- or three-round fights. The next step of the trial will involve a hearing on damages and relief.
苹果与司法部的斗争远未结束，因为反垄断审判通常需要两到三轮的战斗。审判的下一步将是一次关于损害和救济的听证会。