CUPERTINO, Calif. — Apple, the company that turned digital music into a mainstream phenomenon, said on Wednesday that it was buying Beats Electronics, the rising music brand, for $3 billion, in a move that will help it play catch-up with rivals that offer subscription-based music services.
加利福尼亚库比提诺——周三，把数码音乐变成主流现象的苹果公司(Apple)宣布将以30亿美元（约合187亿元人民币）买下正在崛起的音乐品牌Beats电子(Beats Electronics)。这个举动将有助于它追赶提供订阅音乐服务的竞争对手。
Apple and Beats executives on Wednesday said that the companies would work together to give consumers worldwide more options to listen to music. The Beats brand will remain separate from Apple’s, and Apple will offer both Beats’s streaming music service and premium headphones.
苹果和Beats的高管周三表示，两家公司将联手给全球消费者提供更多聆听音乐的选择。届时，Beats品牌将继续独立于苹果之外，而苹果将提供Beats的流音乐服务和优质头戴式耳机。
Apple said that iTunes, which sells individual songs and albums and offers a streaming radio service, would continue to be offered alongside the Beats music service.
苹果表示，除Beats音乐服务以外，公司仍将继续提供出售单曲和专辑并提供流电台服务的iTunes服务。
The purchase of Beats brings Jimmy Iovine, a longtime music executive, and Dr. Dre, the rapper, to work under Eddy Cue, Apple’s executive in charge of Internet services. Dr. Dre and Mr. Iovine, who founded Beats, join a list of prominent executives that Apple has added to its roster, including Angela Ahrendts, the former chief of Burberry, and Paul Deneve, the former chief of Yves Saint Laurent.
收购Beats之后，资深音乐行业高管吉米·艾欧文(Jimmy Iovine)和饶舌歌手德瑞医生(Dr. Dre)将在苹果的互联网服务负责人埃迪·库埃(Eddy Cue)手下工作。身为Beats的创始人，德瑞医生和艾欧文由此跻身于被苹果纳入旗下的著名高管行列，这些高管包括博柏利(Burberry)前首席执行官安吉拉·阿伦茨(Angela Ahrendts)和伊夫圣罗兰(Yves Saint Laurent)前首席执行官保罗·丹尼弗(Paul Deneve)。
In an interview here at Apple’s headquarters, Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, repeatedly emphasized the talent that Dr. Dre and Mr. Iovine would bring to Apple. He also praised the Beats music service, which has people create playlists for people to listen to.
在位于库比提诺的苹果总部接受采访时，苹果首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)反复强调了德瑞医生和艾欧文将给苹果带来的才华。他还对Beats音乐服务表示了赞扬，Beats有专人为听众设计播放列表。
“These guys are really unique,” Mr. Cook said. “It’s like finding the precise grain of sand on the beach. They’re rare and very hard to find.”
“他们真的不同凡响，”库克说。“找到他们，就像是在海滩上找到了刚好合适的砂粒。他们这样的人很少见，找起来非常困难。”
Apple is paying for the deal with $2.6 billion in cash — hardly a dent in the company’s huge cash pile — and $400 million in stock. The company expects the deal to be approved later this year. For Apple, the acquisition of Beats, expected for weeks, largely follows a familiar pattern. Apple has historically bought technology outfits that have resources and talent that it can blend into future devices and online services. Beats, which offers headphones and a fledgling music service, fits that criteria.
苹果将为这笔交易支付26亿美元的现金——这不会对苹果巨大的现金储备造成什么影响——以及价值4亿美元的股票。公司预计这项交易将在今年晚些时候获得批准。对于苹果而言，数周之前已现端倪的Beats收购在很大程度上遵循了一个熟悉的模式。过去，苹果也曾整体收购一些科技公司，这些公司都拥有苹果可以用于未来设备和网络服务的资源和人才。提供头戴式耳机和新兴音乐服务的Beats也符合这个标准。
But the Beats deal is also different from the others. Until now, Apple, the richest tech company in the world, has avoided billion-dollar takeovers in favor of smaller deals. The Beats deal is its largest ever.
然而，收购Beats的交易也有与其他交易不同的地方。作为世界上最富有的科技公司，苹果迄今一直倾向于数额较小的交易，避免进行价值以10亿美元计的巨额收购。Beats的交易是该公司有史以来数额最大的一次。
Apple declined to disclose plans for products it will make with Beats, so it will take time to see how the acquisition materializes. In the meantime, it will raise questions about why Apple, the pioneer of digital music, is buying a music company instead of expanding its in-house products.
苹果拒绝透露与Beats合作的产品制造计划，这样一来，收购之后的具体举措还要过些时间才见分晓。在此期间，人们将会质疑，作为数码音乐先驱的苹果为什么要收购一家音乐公司，而不是发展公司已有的产品。
The growth of Apple’s iTunes Store is being stifled by companies like Spotify and Pandora, which allow people to stream music freely with ads or with a paid subscription.
苹果iTunes商店的增长受到了Spotify和Pandora等公司的挤压，这些公司允许用户在接受广告或支付订阅费的情况下任意播放音乐。
“Apple was at the front of that curve, and if that’s the reason for the acquisition it would lend credence to the view that maybe they’re not ahead of the curve anymore,” said Maynard Um, a financial analyst for Wells Fargo.
富国银行(Wells Fargo)金融分析师梅纳德·乌姆(Maynard Um)表示，“苹果本来位于这条曲线的前方，如果这是苹果决定收购的原因，那就印证了以下观点，即苹果不再领先。”
Mr. Cook called the deal a “no-brainer.” He said that Apple had bought 27 companies since last year, but that did not mean Apple had to buy those companies.
库克称，此次交易“根本不需要思考”。他表示，苹果自去年以来已经收购了27家公司，但这并不意味着苹果非得买下这些公司不可。
“Could Eddy’s team have built a subscription service? Of course,” he said. “We could’ve built those 27 other things ourselves, too. You don’t build everything yourself. It’s not one thing that excites us here. It’s the people. It’s the service.”
“埃迪领导的团队本可以自己创建订阅服务吗？当然，”他说。“我们本来也可以研发其他27件东西。谁也不会亲自去创建一切。这个公司让我们兴奋的不是某一件东西，而是他们的人才，他们的服务。”
In 2002, Steven P. Jobs, the Apple chief who died nearly three years ago, began a mission to persuade record companies to start selling their music online. It was an opportune time for Mr. Jobs because Apple was still relatively small and a less intimidating partner, and the music industry was unhappy that people could pirate songs by downloading them online.
大约三年前去世的苹果首席执行官史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)曾在2002年启动一项任务，意在说服唱片公司开始在线销售音乐。这对于乔布斯来说是一个合适的时间，因为当时苹果规模较小，是一个不那么令人害怕的合作伙伴，而音乐界又对人们从网上下载歌曲侵犯版权的做法感到不快。
Mr. Jobs offered the record companies a legitimate online music outlet, the iTunes Store, to sell their music. But he wanted to make one big change: Customers would have to be allowed to buy any music they want à la carte, or one song at a time. The record companies initially resisted, but Mr. Jobs eventually persuaded them to come on board. The iTunes Store opened in 2003.
乔布斯为唱片公司提供了合法的在线音乐商店 iTunes Store，方便这些公司销售音乐。但他想实现一个巨大的改变，即允许顾客单独购买他们想听的音乐，或者说一次买一首。唱片公司起初拒绝这一改变，但乔布斯最终说服它们加入。2003年，iTunes Store开了张。
Steven Milunovich, a financial analyst for UBS, said he thought the bulk of the acquisition might have been spent on hiring Mr. Iovine to handle big media negotiations in the future, as Mr. Jobs did for iTunes music in the past.
瑞银(UBS)金融分析师史蒂文·米卢诺维奇(Steven Milunovich)表示，他认为这次收购的大部分力气可能都花在了聘用艾欧文方面，目的是让艾欧文负责未来的大型媒体谈判，就像乔布斯过去为iTunes音乐开展的谈判一样。
“Jobs had a distortion field and that was kind of a unique capability,” Mr. Milunovich said. He added about Mr. Iovine: “Within the music world, this guy’s probably the closest thing you’re going to get to it.”
米卢诺维奇说，“乔布斯拥有一种扭曲力场，这是一种独特的能力。”他还提到了艾欧文，“在音乐界，这家伙可能最接近于拥有这种能力的人物了。”
Still, some other analysts, like Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, were puzzled by the acquisition, especially the high price. After all, in 1996, Apple paid much less — about $400 million — to acquire the computer company NeXT, which brought Mr. Jobs back to the company.
尽管如此，该收购案，尤其是高昂的收购价格，仍然让其他一些分析师感到非常困惑，比如桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)的金融分析师托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)。毕竟，苹果在1996年收购计算机公司NeXT的价格——大约4亿美元——比这低得多，那次交易使乔布斯重回公司。
That turned out to be one of the most transformative tech acquisitions in history: With Mr. Jobs back at the helm, Apple rose from near-bankruptcy into a dominant company.
事实已经证明，那次交易是有史以来最富变革性的科技公司收购案：乔布斯重新掌舵，苹果从一个濒临破产的公司发展成了占统治地位的公司。
Mr. Cook said that Dr. Dre and Mr. Iovine would be working with Apple on the next generation of music offerings, but declined to share details about future products.
库克表示，德瑞医生与艾欧文将和苹果联手推出下一代音乐产品，但他拒绝透露未来产品的相关细节。
“They’re going to be coming up with ways of features that blow your mind,” he said, “and products you haven’t thought of yet, and seeing around the next corner to articulate the way to take music to an even higher level than it is now.”
“他们会想出一些让你大吃一惊的方法，”他说。“会推出一些你从未想到的产品，会在下一个转角处环顾四周，找到将音乐推向更高层次的途径。”