TOKYO — Apple is positioning itself for a comeback attempt in Asia.
东京——苹果已经做好准备，要在亚洲卷土重来。
With sales of its iPhones falling in China, the biggest smartphone market in the world, the company is set to announce two new versions of the device next week, according to an announcement that slipped out Thursday on a Chinese social media site.
中国是世界上最大的智能手机市场，鉴于iPhone在中国销量滑坡，苹果准备下周发布两款新版iPhone，该消息是中国一家社交媒体网站上周四“无意中”透露的。
In Japan, where Apple is much stronger but faces a renewed challenge from domestic smartphone makers like Sony, the company has struck a deal to sell the iPhone via the biggest mobile phone carrier, NTT Docomo, two people briefed on the situation said Friday.
苹果在日本的销势比在中国强劲得多，但也面临着索尼等日本智能手机制造商的新一波挑战。上周五，两名知情人士表示，苹果已经跟日本最大的移动电话运营商NTT DoCoMo达成协议，通过它销售iPhone。
Apple has scheduled an event in Beijing on Wednesday, a rebroadcast of a news conference at its headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., to be held on Tuesday. The company has long been expected to announce two new phones there — an upgraded version of its flagship iPhone 5, as well as a lower-cost phone aimed at people in China and other emerging markets.
苹果计划本周三在北京召开发布会，重演周二在加州库比蒂诺苹果总部的新闻发布会。人们早就预计该公司会在中国发布两款新手机，一款是其旗舰手机iPhone 5的升级版，另一款则是低价版iPhone，以中国和其他新兴市场的用户为目标受众。
Apparent confirmation of the new lineup came Thursday when China Telecom, a network operator that offers the existing iPhone 5, briefly posted a message via its official customer service account on a microblogging platform, Sina Weibo. In the posting, China Telecom solicited preorders for the new devices, which it identified as the iPhone 5S, the high-end model, and iPhone 5C, the lower-cost handset.
上周四，销售现有iPhone 5的网络运营商中国电信通过其新浪微博官方客服帐号发布简短消息，明显确认了新的iPhone手机将会亮相。在这条消息中，中国电信为新机型征求预订，称高端机型名为iPhone 5S，低价机型则名为iPhone 5C。
The message was quickly removed, and it is not clear whether it had been posted in error or as part of a calculated marketing campaign. China Telecom is in a battle for subscribers against two other major operators, China Unicom, which carries the iPhone, and China Mobile, which does not.
这条微博很快遭到删除，目前尚不清楚这是错误发帖还是故意设计的营销手法。中国电信正在跟国内另外两家大型运营商争夺客户，它们是支持iPhone的中国联通和不支持iPhone的中国移动。
Ivan Wong, a spokesman for China Telecom, declined to comment, citing nondisclosure agreements.
中国电信发言人王家俊(Ivan Wong)以保密协议为由拒绝置评。
There has been speculation that the company would use the announcement of its new iPhone lineup to announce an agreement with China Mobile, the biggest mobile operator in China, to sell the iPhone. Doing so would give Apple access to the company’s enormous subscriber base — 744 million as of July 31.
有人曾经猜测，发布新的iPhone设备时，中国电信会借机宣布一项跟中国移动之间的iPhone销售协议，后者是中国最大的移动运营商。此举可以让苹果接触到中国移动的庞大用户群：7月31日的数字为7.44亿人。
That would be a much-needed lift for Apple in China, where it slipped into sixth place among smartphone makers in the second quarter, with a share of only 4.8 percent, according to Canalys, a research firm.
要想在中国发展，苹果亟需这样的促进。调研公司Canalys的资料显示，今年第二季度，苹果在中国智能手机市场的份额只有4.8%，滑落到智能手机制造商的第六位。
“We have heard that there’s an event next week, but we can’t comment on it,” said Rainie Lei, a spokeswoman for China Mobile. Apple did not return calls.
“我们听说下周有一次活动，但我们不能评论这件事情，”中国移动女发言人雷雨(Rainie Lei)说。苹果没有回复电话。
The Weibo message from China Telecom also stated that China would be either “the first” or “one of the first” countries to get the new phones, based on Chinese phrasing that could be translated either way.
根据中国电信前述微博的中文措辞，中国将会是全球“第一个”或者“第一批”发布这些新手机的国家。
In the past, Apple did not make iPhones available in China until several months after they had gone on sale in the United States. In the meantime, many Chinese consumers chose phones from growing domestic brands like Huawei, Lenovo, ZTE, Coolpad and Xiaomi.
在过去，苹果总是要等新iPhone在美国上市几个月之后才会在中国推出。与此同时，许多中国消费者都在日益增长的国内品牌当中挑选手机，例如华为、联想、中兴、酷派和小米。
In Japan, the biggest mobile carrier, Docomo, has been an Apple refusenik, until now. The company has 60 million customers, but it has been losing market share to the other two main mobile operators in Japan, SoftBank and KDDI, which operates under the brand name au. Both of those companies have been marketing Apple’s phones aggressively. Still, Apple’s share of smartphone sales slipped to 30 percent in the second quarter from 36 percent in the first quarter, according to Canalys. Sony’s share rose to 22 percent from 11 percent.
在日本，最大的移动运营商Docomo迄今为止一直将苹果拒之门外。该公司拥有6000万用户，但其市场份额一直在流失给另两家主要运营商软银(SoftBank)和KDDI，后者在“au”商标下运营。这两家公司都积极促销苹果手机。不过，据Canalys的数据，苹果智能手机的市场份额已经从第一季度的36%下降到第二季度的30%。索尼的市场份额则从11%上升到了22%。
Docomo has countered with smartphones from domestic providers as well as from Samsung Electronics of South Korea. Japanese brands have been falling by the wayside. One company, NEC, said this summer that it was getting out of the smartphone business and another, Panasonic, followed suit this past week. But sales of Sony smartphones have been rising and some of the other survivors, including Fujitsu and Sharp, have held firm — in Japan, at least.
Docomo一直在凭借国内供应商和韩国三星电子(Samsung Electronics)的智能手机进行反击。在此之前，日本品牌纷纷失败出局。日本电气公司(NEC)在今年夏天表示退出智能手机业务，另一家日本企业松下(Panasonic)也在上周步其后尘。然而，索尼智能手机的销量一直在增长，包括富士通(Fujitsu)和夏普(Sharp)在内的其他一些幸存者也还在坚持，至少是在日本。
Docomo in the past balked at signing on with Apple because it was trying to develop its own mobile content and applications. But the people briefed on the situation confirmed reports in the Japanese news media stating that Docomo had reversed course. It was not immediately clear when sales of iPhones via Docomo would begin, though.
Docomo过去一直不愿和苹果签约，原因是它试图开发自己的移动设备和应用。但知情人士证实了日本媒体的报道，称Docomo已经改弦易辙。不过，尚不清楚Docomo将从何时开始销售iPhone。
“No decision has been made at this point that requires disclosure,” said Takuya Ori, a spokesman for Docomo.
“目前，我公司尚无需要披露的决定，”Docomo发言人小里卓也（Takuya Ori，音译）说。