The break-in of a journalist's Apple iCloud account serves as a cautionary tale about how vulnerable people can be to malicious hackers, no matter how digitally sophisticated they are. Mat Honan, a seasoned technology writer, was spectacularly hacked over the weekend.
一位记者的苹果iCloud账号遭到黑客侵入的事是一个警示，告诉我们，无论人们对数字技术多么熟悉，他们在怀有恶意的黑客面前多么脆弱。8月第一周账户被黑的是资深技术撰稿人马特·霍南(Mat Honan)。
On Friday evening, the password for Mr. Honan's iCloud account was reset. Later the bad guys broke into his Gmail account, and eventually they erased the data on his iPhone, iPad and MacBook Air using Apple's remote-wipe feature - a self-destruct mechanism of sorts designed for use when a device has entered the wrong hands. To make matters worse, they also gained access to his personal Twitter account, as well as the account belonging to the tech blog Gizmodo, where he used to work.
8月3日晚上，霍南的iCloud账户密码被重设。随后黑客闯进他的Gmail账户，最后，黑客借助苹果的远程擦除工具，删除了他的iPhone、iPad和MacBook Air电脑上的所有数据。远程擦除工具是苹果针对设备落入坏人手中的情况设计的一种自我删除工具。更糟糕的是，黑客还进入了他的Twitter个人微博账户，以及他曾工作过的Gizmodo技术博客上的账户。
Mr. Honan published a detailed account of the story on Wired. He says the hackers gained entry by phoning Apple's tech support and using some clever "social engineering" to let them bypass security questions. That may point to a weakness in Apple's identity verification process. But the root of the issue was brought to light when Evelyn M. Rusli and I reported on iTunes account hacks back in March: Apple encourages customers to use the same Apple ID and password for just about everything. That's a concern because iTunes is no longer just a music store; it's also a place to buy e-books, apps and TV shows. And the same credentials are used to log in to iCloud, Apple's cloud service, where confidential documents could be retrieved or a remote wipe done, as in Mr. Honan's case.
霍南在Wired上发表了一篇文章，详细描述了这段经历。他称，黑客给苹果的技术支持打电话，利用某种狡猾的“社会工程”技巧绕过安全问题，最终进入他的账户。这可能说明苹果在身份验证环节上的漏洞。但是，今年3月我和伊芙琳·M·鲁斯利(Evelyn M. Rusli)在有关iTunes账户被盗的报道中，已经发现了这件事的根源：苹果鼓励用户在所有地方使用同一个Apple ID和密码。这让人担心，因为iTunes已不只是一家音乐商店；它还可用来购买电子书、应用程序和电视节目。而且同样的账户信息还可以用来登陆苹果的iCloud云服务，黑客可以从那里盗取保密文件，或者远程擦除所有数据，就像霍南所遭遇的那样。
A security expert pointed out back in March that this would be a problem:
一个安全专家在3月份就曾指出这将是个问题：
"Apple wants to pretend that everything is magic," said Alex Stamos, co-founder of iSEC Partners, a security firm. "They need to admit that their products can be used by bad people to do bad things."
“苹果希望制造一切都很神奇的假象，”安全公司iSEC Partners公司的联名创始人亚历克斯·斯坦默斯(Alex Stamos) 称。“他们需要承认，他们的产品会被坏人用来做坏事。”
One problem, Mr. Stamos said, is that iTunes customers use a single account and password for access to all Apple services. For example, the same login can be used to download a $1 game or buy a $2,000 laptop through the Apple Store app. He said that Apple could adopt a two-step verification method like Google's. For example, if a user wanted to log in to the iTunes store on a new device, Apple could send a message to his iPhone containing a code, which he would enter to verify his identity.
斯坦默斯称，其中一个问题是，iTunes用户用同一个用户名和密码登陆所有苹果服务。比如，同样的登陆信息可以用来下载1美元的游戏，也可以通过Apple Store应用购买2000美元的笔记本电脑。他说，苹果可以采取像谷歌(Google)那样的两步认证法。比如，如果用户想要在新设备上登陆iTunes商城，苹果就向其iPhone手机发送一条含有确认码的短信，用户可以凭此来验证身份。
To be fair, iTunes is successful largely because it was one of the first friction-free ways to purchase digital content. But perhaps iTunes has grown too big and too powerful to be so simple.
公平地讲，iTunes之所以获得成功，很大程度上是因为它在购买数字内容方面是首批流畅的途径之一。但或许iTunes已经发展得太大和太强，不宜再这么简单了。
In a statement issued late Monday, Apple said that it had made a mistake when resetting Mr. Honan's Apple ID password because it had not completely followed protocol.
周一晚些时候，苹果在一份声明中称，该公司在重置霍南的苹果账户密码时犯了错误，原因是没有完全按照规定的流程操作。
"Apple takes customer privacy seriously and requires multiple forms of verification before resetting an Apple ID password," said Natalie Kerris, an Apple spokeswoman, in a statement. "In this particular case, the customer's data was compromised by a person who had acquired personal information about the customer.  In addition, we found that our own internal policies were not followed completely. We are reviewing all of our processes for resetting account passwords to ensure our customers' data is protected."
“苹果公司认真对待用户的隐私，在重置苹果账户密码前要求进行多重身份验证，”苹果女发言人娜塔莉·克里斯(Natalie Kerris)在一份声明中说。“在这次的事件中，用户数据被一个已经获得用户个人资料的人破坏。此外，我们也发现我们的内部政策没有得到完全遵循。我们正在审查重置密码的所有流程，以确保用户数据安全。”