SAN FRANCISCO — Apple’s remarkable growth streak — now more than a decade old — is starting to fade a little.
旧金山——苹果(Apple)引人注目的增长迄今已保持逾10年之久，目前却有所降温。
Apple reported on Wednesday that its revenue for the last quarter climbed 5 percent, to $45.6 billion, from $43.6 billion in the same period the year earlier. The company’s earnings were up about 7 percent, to $10.2 billion, from $9.5 billion in the same quarter a year ago.
苹果周三称，上季度营收增长了5%，达到456亿美元，去年同期为436亿美元。利润增长了约7%，达到102亿美元，去年同期为95亿美元。
Although the results beat expectations, the company’s rate of profit and revenue growth has slowed considerably in recent quarters. The slowdown has put pressure on Timothy D. Cook, the company’s chief executive, to release products in new categories — perhaps with a so-called smart watch or even an Apple television.
尽管上述业绩超出预期，但最近几个季度，该公司利润和营收的增速已大幅放缓。这为首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)带来了压力，迫使其推出更多类型的产品——也许是所谓的智能手表，甚至是一款苹果电视。
On Wednesday, Apple resorted other means to at least temporarily please investors concerned about the pace of growth.
周三，苹果采取了其他办法，至少暂时性地让担心其增速的投资者高兴起来。
The company said it would buy $30 billion of its stock in addition to the $60 billion it announced last year. It also raised its quarterly dividend by 8 percent and said it would split its stock. In after-hours trading, Apple’s shares were up 7.6 percent.
该公司称，除了去年宣布的600亿美元的股票回购计划，将再回购300亿美元的股票。该公司还把季度股息提高了8%，并表示将拆分股票。苹果股价盘后交易时段上涨了7.6%。
In a call with analysts, Mr. Cook said the increased buyback was “a signal of the board and management team’s strong confidence in the future of Apple.”
库克在与分析师的电话会议中说，扩大股票回购规模是“董事会和管理团队对苹果的未来拥有坚定信心的信号”。
Carl C. Icahn, the activist investor who has repeatedly clamored for Apple to increase its buyback program, expressed his satisfaction with the change on Twitter. “Believe we’ll also be happy when we see new products,” he wrote.
多次呼吁苹果扩大股票回购计划的激进投资者卡尔·C·伊坎(Carl C. Icahn)在Twitter上表达了他的满意。“相信当我们看到新产品时，也会这么开心，”他写道。
The company sold 43.7 million iPhones — up from 37.4 million in the same period last year. But sales of its iPads, at 16.35 million, were slightly down, from 19.5 million last year, despite a major redesign for one of the iPads introduced in the fall.
公司上季度售出了4370万部iPhone——高于去年同期的3740万部。虽然苹果去年秋天推出了一款设计经过重大调整的iPad，但其销量仅为1635万台，低于去年同期的1950万台。
It was almost certain that Apple’s stratospheric rise, largely on the back of the iPhone, would plateau. It’s the law of large numbers.
几乎毫无疑问的是，苹果主要凭借iPhone实现的惊人增长将趋于平稳。这符合大数定律。
“If Apple grew the next five years like it did the previous five years, it would be approaching the G.D.P. of Australia,” said Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein.
“如果未来五年，苹果能实现之前五年的那种增长，它的规模将接近澳大利亚的GDP，”桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)的分析师托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)说。
Still, investors have come to expect big jumps from Apple. For years, Apple has blazed new trails for the tech industry with its iPhones and iPads.
可是，投资者已经习惯了苹果的高增速。多年来，苹果凭借iPhone和iPad为科技产业开辟了新路。
“Psychologically, it’s more the issue that here is this incredibly high-flying company two years ago growing at 50 percent or more,” Mr. Sacconaghi said.
萨克纳吉说，“从心理上讲，问题更多在于，这家无比成功的公司两年前曾以50%甚至更高的速度增长。”
The big question that hovers over the company is whether it can regain that momentum.
有关这家公司的一个较大疑问是，它能否重获那种势头。
Apple’s iPad sales are slowing down much faster than many expected. Apple sold about three million fewer iPads over the last quarter than it did in the same period last year. Apple said the result was mostly related to supply changes.
苹果的iPad销售的放缓幅度超过了许多人的预期。上一财季，苹果iPad的销量与去年同期相比减少了约300万台。苹果称，这主要与供应的变化有关。
But Apple’s competitors, like Amazon and Samsung Electronics, offer much cheaper tablets, and that may also be stifling the iPad’s growth. Many cheap tablets that cost half as much as an iPad, like Amazon’s Kindle Fire, have improved in quality, said Tero Kuittinen, managing director at Frank N. Magid Associates, a strategic consulting firm.
苹果的竞争者，如亚马逊(Amazon)和三星电子(Samsung Electronics)，推出了更便宜的平板设备，这可能也遏制了iPad的增长。战略咨询公司Frank N. Magid Associates的董事总经理泰罗·库伊蒂宁(Tero Kuittinen)说，许多便宜的平板设备的价格仅为iPad的一半，比如亚马逊的Kindle Fire，而且质量已经有所提升。
“Many people would argue that the quality of the $200 tablet has improved radically,” Mr. Kuittinen said. “At the same time, Apple decided to pick and hold the line on premium pricing and clearly it’s undermining unit growth.”
库伊蒂宁说，“许多人会说，200美元的平板设备的质量已经有了极大的改进。与此同时，苹果决定坚持走高端路线，显然，这削弱了销量的增长。”
Still, Mr. Cook said on the earnings call that he was optimistic about the iPad’s growth. He said that market share was not an accurate depiction of the device’s success. Over 90 percent of tablets used by enterprise companies, and 95 percent of the tablets used by schools, are iPads, and customer satisfaction with iPads remains high, he said.
尽管如此，库克在财报电话会议上说，他对iPad的增长表示乐观。他说，市场份额并不能精确地衡量一款设备的成就。他说，企业使用的90%的平板设备，以及学校使用的95%的平板设备，都是iPad，消费者对iPad的满意度仍然很高。
“What it means to me is that the trend over time, over the arc of time, that things look very, very good, that iPad has a great future,” Mr. Cook said.
库克说，“这对我来说意味着，从长期趋势来看，形势看起来非常非常不错，iPad有着美好的前景。”
Apple had strong growth from iPhone sales, selling about six million more over the quarter than it did in the same period last year. Apple said its recent partnership with China Mobile, the biggest phone carrier in the world, helped sales.
苹果的iPhone销售强劲增长，上财季的销量比去年同期增加了600万台。苹果说，最近与世界最大的手机运营商——中国移动的合作提振了销量。
Sales of the iPhone pushed the company above Wall Street expectations. Analysts had expected revenue of $43.5 billion and profit of $10.18 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.
iPhone的销量让公司的表现超出了华尔街的预期。根据汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)的调查，分析人士对苹果营收的预期为435亿美元，利润101.8亿美元。
Still, smartphone sales are slowing down industrywide, notably in China, which may pose a potential problem for Apple. Smartphone sales there are expected to grow only 20 percent this year, compared with growth of 60 percent in 2013, according to the research firm IDC. Many people with stable incomes have already bought smartphones there.
不过，从整个行业来看，智能手机的销量仍在放缓，尤其是在中国。这可能为苹果带来了潜在的挑战。根据研究公司IDC的数据，预计今年智能手机销量的增幅将仅为20%，相比之下，2013年的增幅为60%。目前，许多拥有稳定收入的人已经购置了智能手机。
Mr. Cook seemed confident that the iPhone would continue to find growth. He said that the older iPhone 4S was helping attract first-time iPhone buyers in emerging markets like China and Vietnam. Apple’s iPhone sales were also up in developed markets like the United States, France and Germany, he said.
库克似乎坚信，iPhone的销量将继续增长。他说，在中国和越南等新兴市场，较早的iPhone4S机型正在吸引一些从未买过iPhone的消费者。在美国、法国和德国等发达市场，iPhone的销量也出现了增长。