Apple’s profit soared 38 percent and revenue rose 33 percent in its fiscal third quarter, as sales of iPhones continued to surge, yet the performance did not meet Wall Street’s high expectations.
随着iPhone销量继续激增，苹果公司在第三财政季度利润飙升38%，营收增长33%，但这样的业绩仍然未达到华尔街的期望。
On Tuesday, the company, based in Cupertino, Calif., reported net income of $10.7 billion, compared with $7.7 billion in the same quarter a year earlier. Revenue climbed to $49.6 billion, slightly above the expectations of Wall Street analysts, who had predicted revenue of $49.3 billion, according to a survey of analysts by Thomson Reuters.
本周二，总部设在加州的苹果公司宣布其净收入为107亿美元，其上年同期的净收入为77亿美元。营收增至496亿美元，略高于汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)一份调查中华尔街分析师们曾预测的493亿美元。
“We had an amazing quarter, with iPhone revenue up 59 percent over last year, strong sales of Mac, all-time record revenue from services, driven by the App Store, and a great start for Apple Watch,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said in a statement, adding that excitement for Apple Music, its new streaming music service, was “incredible.”
“我们这个季度的业绩惊人，iPhone营收比去年同期增长了59%，Mac销售势头强劲，在应用商店的推动下，服务方面也获得了创纪录的营收，而且Apple Watch的开局也很出色，”苹果首席执行官蒂莫西· D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)在一份声明中说。他还表示，公司新推出的流媒体音乐服务苹果音乐(Apple Music)引发了人们的“极大”热情。
Despite the strong overall growth, the results fell short of Wall Street expectations, and Apple’s stock dropped about 7 percent in after-hours trading.
尽管获得了这样的总体增长，但苹果的业绩却不及华尔街的预期，苹果公司的股价在盘后交易中下挫了约7%。
Apple sold 47.5 million iPhones during the quarter, up 35 percent from a year ago. But the figure missed analysts’ estimates of 49.4 million. And while the company did not share numbers on sales of its new device, the Apple Watch, analysts calculated that the company sold 1.5 million to 3 million watches, far less than the 3 to 5 million they had predicted before the earnings report.
在该季度，苹果售出4750万部iPhone，较一年前增加35%。但分析师之前曾估计这个数字将达到4940万。而且苹果并没有透露其新推出的手表的销售数据，分析师估算该这个数字在150万到300万之间，远远少于他们在财报公布前预测的300到500万只。
Even though short of expectations, the jump in iPhone sales was noteworthy because the spring season tends to be when device sales slow down for Apple and other tech companies. Sales usually heat up between September and December, when consumers stock up on new devices for the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons, and cool down afterward.
虽然iPhone销量不及预期，但该数字的激增也值得注意，因为对于苹果和其他高科技公司而言，春季通常是设备销售淡季。旺季是9月到12月，那时消费者会为开学做准备，并为节日采购物品，之后销量则会放缓。
Apple reported $2.6 billion in revenue for a category it calls “Other Products.” The category — for products like the iPod — also includes the Apple Watch. Apple did not break out specific sales data for the smartwatch, which became available in April.
苹果公司称，有26亿美元的营收来自“其他产品”类别，它包括iPod这样的产品，以及手表。这种智能手表于今年4月上市发售，苹果没有公布它的具体销售数据。
Before the report, analysts had estimated that if revenue in the category exceeded $5 billion, it would be a sign that Apple had sold at least five million watches, much higher than the number of iPhones and iPads that were sold in their first quarters on the market. That sales performance, analysts say, is a litmus test for whether Apple can continue successful product introductions since the death in 2011 of Steve Jobs, who drove the company to new heights with products like the iPhone and iPad.
在财报公布之前，分析师曾估计，如果这个类别的营收超过50亿美元，则可能意味着苹果售出了至少500万只手表，远远高于iPhone和iPad开始发售后第一季度的销量。分析师说，那样的销售业绩是一块试金石，可以用来判断苹果在史蒂夫·乔布斯过世之后，能否继续推出成功的新产品。乔布斯于2011年过世，他生前推出的iPhone和iPad等产品，将苹果公司推升到了新的高度。
“There’s a belief that, look, at some point iPhone units will slow,” said Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein. “What’s going to make up for that? And the hope is, could it be the watch?”
“有人认为，iPhone的销售到一定时候会开始放缓，”桑福德·C·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)的分析师托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)说。“用什么来抵消这种放缓呢？有人希望，会不会是Apple Watch呢？”
In an interview, Luca Maestri, Apple’s chief financial officer, said the watch’s sales in its first nine weeks exceeded those of the iPhone and iPad in their first nine weeks of availability.
苹果首席财务官卢卡·马埃斯特里(Luca Maestri)接受采访时表示，Apple Watch在前九周的销售额超过了iPhone和iPad推出前九周的销售额。
Apple noted that international sales accounted for 64 percent of the quarter’s overall revenue. Sales in the greater China region, one of Apple’s prime growth areas, more than doubled in the quarter to $13.2 billion.
苹果指出，国际销售额在该季度总收入中占64%。作为苹果主要增长区域之一的大中华区，销售额在该季度翻了一倍多，增至132亿美元。
The company also reported healthy growth for its Macintosh computer business. Apple sold 4.8 million Macs, up 9 percent from a year ago.
该公司还报告称Mac电脑业务稳健增长。苹果出售了480万台Mac电脑，同比增长9%。
Yet sales of the iPad, which have experienced a decline in the last year, continued to shrink. The company posted sales of 10.9 million iPads, down 18 percent from the 13.3 million sold in the same quarter a year earlier.
iPad的销售额在去年呈下降趋势，该季度继续缩水。苹果宣称iPad的销售量为1090万台，同比减少18%——去年同一季度的销售量为1330万台。