PARIS — Authorities searched the French offices of Apple and some affiliated companies as part of an investigation into retailing practices, a spokesman for the French competition regulator said on Tuesday.
巴黎——法国竞争监管部门的一名发言人周二说，作为针对苹果在法零售业务的调查行动的一部分，当局搜查了苹果(Apple)的法国分公司和苹果的一些关联企业。
The raids took place last week on “some of Apple’s premises in France, as well as those of some of its wholesalers and distributors,” said André Piérard, a spokesman for the regulator, the Competition Authority.
法国监管部门竞争管理局(Competition Authority)的发言人安德烈·皮耶拉尔(André Piérard)说，突击调查发生在上周，对象是“苹果在法国的一些产业，以及它的一些批发商和分销商”。
Mr. Piérard said the investigation was carried out by competition officials accompanied by judicial police officers. Authorities seized documents in the raids.
皮耶拉尔说，执行调查的是竞争管理局的官员，陪同前往的还有司法警务人员。当局在突击调查中没收了一些文件。
Apple is known for maintaining strict controls over its product image and marketing, extending those efforts to its highly profitable stores. But its leading market position has prompted scrutiny in Europe and elsewhere. European regulators, for example, have been examining Apple’s contracts with the cellphone carriers that sell its iPhone for possible antitrust violations.
苹果因对产品形象和市场推广保持严格控制而闻名，并已把这些举措扩展利润丰厚的苹果店面当中。然而，在欧洲和其他一些地方，它在市场的领导地位已促使当局加强了对它的审查。例如，欧洲的监管者一直在审核苹果和销售iPhone的手机运营商之间的合同，以防其中存在违背反垄断法的条款。
The news of the investigation in France was first reported Monday by Les Échos, a financial newspaper. The article said the investigators were interested in Apple’s relations with its distributors.
法国财经报纸《回声报》(Les Échos)周一率先报道了苹果在法国受到调查的新闻。文章说，调查人员关注的是苹果与其分销商之间的关系。
The article cited the case of eBizcuss, an Apple premium reseller that operated about 15 stores until it collapsed last year. The eBizcuss chief executive, François Prudent, accused Apple of abusing its market dominance and of unfair competition, contending that the company had opened Apple stores around the country while starving its other authorized retailers of popular products like the newest iPads and iPhones. Mr. Prudent filed a complaint with the regulator.
文章引用了苹果主要分销商eBizcuss的案例，这家公司于去年倒闭，此前经营着大约15家商店。eBizcuss的首席执行官弗朗索瓦·普吕当(François Prudent)指责苹果滥用其市场优势地位，进行不公平竞争。他说，苹果公司在全国各地开设了苹果零售店，同时又不给其他授权经销商提供市场热捧的产品，比如最新款的iPad和iPhone。普吕当已经向监管机构提出了投诉。
According to Les Échos, the competition authorities want to know if Apple ordered its wholesalers, with which the distributors like eBizcuss were in almost daily contact, not to deliver the products on time. Les Échos reported that Mr. Piérard also said that the competition authorities were investigating Apple and other Internet companies on suspicion of abuse of market dominance with their online app stores.
《回声报》说，竞争监管部门想要查明，苹果是否曾要求其批发商不要按时发货。eBizcuss之类的分销商几乎每天都会和这些批发商打交道。《回声报》报道称，皮耶拉尔还说，竞争管理部门正在对苹果以及其他互联网公司进行调查，因为他们涉嫌通过自家的网络应用商店滥用市场主导地位。
Mr. Piérard declined to comment on the newspaper report. Josh Rosenstock, an Apple spokesman in London, also declined to comment.
皮耶拉尔拒绝就《回声报》的报道发表评论。苹果驻伦敦发言人乔希·罗森斯托克(Josh Rosenstock)也拒绝置评。