After months of stalled negotiations over its planned Internet radio service, Apple is pushing to complete licensing deals with music companies so it can reveal the service as early as next week, according to people briefed on the talks.
据一些熟悉苹果谈判情况的人士称，在围绕互联网广播服务的谈判数月停滞不前后，苹果(Apple)正在推进与各家音乐公司的授权交易，最早可望在下周宣布该项服务。
Apple’s service, a Pandora-like feature that would tailor streams of music to each user’s taste, has been planned since at least last summer. But Apple has made little progress with record labels and music publishers, which have been seeking higher royalty rates and guaranteed minimum payments, according to these people, who spoke anonymously about the private talks.
苹果这项服务是一个和Pandora类似的功能，可以根据各个用户的喜好定制流音乐，该服务最晚从去年夏天便列入了计划。但在同唱片公司和音乐发行商的谈判方面，苹果几乎没有取得多少进展。要求匿名谈论这些私下商谈的前述人士称，唱片公司和音乐发行商一直要求获得更高的版税，外加付款金额的最低保证。
While it is still at odds with some music companies over deal terms, Apple is said to be eager to get the licenses in time to unveil the service — nicknamed iRadio by the technology press — at its annual developers conference, which begins June 10 in San Francisco.
尽管和一些音乐公司在交易条款上依然有争议，但据说苹果迫切希望及时得到授权，以便在将于6月10在旧金山开幕的年度开发者大会上宣布这项服务。该服务被科技媒体称作iRadio。
Apple has signed a deal with the Universal Music Group for its recorded music rights, but not for music publishing — the part of the business that deals with songwriting. Over the weekend, Apple also signed a deal with the Warner Music Group for both rights. It is still in talks with Sony Music Entertainment and Sony’s separate publishing arm, Sony/ATV, whose songwriters include Taylor Swift and Lady Gaga.
苹果已经同环球唱片(Universal Music Group)就已录制音乐的权利签订了协议，但协议没有涉及音乐发行，这一部分业务同词曲创作有关。苹果还在周末同华纳音乐集团(Warner Music Group)就这两方面的权利签订了协议。同时，苹果仍在同索尼音乐娱乐(Sony Music Entertainment)及索尼的独立发行机构索尼/ATV进行谈判，索尼/ATV旗下的词曲创作人包括泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)和Lady Gaga。
Representatives for Apple and the music companies declined to comment.
苹果和前述音乐公司的代表拒绝置评。
Apple’s Internet radio feature is expected to be free and supported by advertising, and would represent a relatively late arrival by the company into what has become a fast-growing — if low-margin — sector of the music business. Pandora has more than 70 million regular users, the vast majority of whom do not pay, and similar features have been introduced by Google, Spotify and the radio company Clear Channel Communications.
苹果的互联网广播服务功能预计是免费的，将由广告提供支持，而且可能宣告苹果公司为时较晚地进入了音乐行业当中一个快速发展但利润较低的领域。Pandora拥有7000多万固定用户，绝大部分用户都不需要付费，谷歌(Google)、Spotify和广播公司清晰频道通信公司(Clear Channel Communications)也已推出了类似的功能。
The licensing fees paid by Pandora have been a sore spot for music companies, which see promise in Apple’s service, particularly since it can be linked to sales through Apple’s iTunes store, but want higher rates. Publishers, for instance, are paid about 4 percent of Pandora’s revenue, but want as much as 10 percent from Apple.
Pandora支付的授权费是音乐公司的痛处，它们在苹果的服务中看到了前途，尤其是因为它能通过苹果的iTunes商店同销售相连。不过，它们向苹果提出的收费率更高。比如，发行商向Pandora收取的费用是其收入的4%左右，但却向苹果提出了高达10%的收费要求。
Apple is said to be negotiating directly with the music groups because it wants more extensive licensing terms.
据称，因为希望得到更广泛的授权条款，苹果正在直接同音乐公司谈判。