SAN FRANCISCO — Have consumers lost their affection for Apple gadgets, or are they just waiting for the new iPhones to come out in September?
旧金山——消费者对苹果(Apple)设备失去热情了吗，还是说他们只是在等新iPhone在9月上市？
Every one of Apple’s major hardware businesses posted declines in the three months that ended in June, the company reported Tuesday.
苹果公司周二发布的财报显示，在截至6月底的三个月里，公司所有重要硬件业务的成绩均出现了下滑。
The number of iPhones sold dropped 15 percent, compared to the same quarter a year ago, and revenue plunged 23 percent as customers switched to cheaper iPhone SEs. The number of Macs sold fell 11 percent, and the number of iPads fell 9 percent. And sales of the Watch, Apple’s newest product, plunged 55 percent compared to the previous year, according to the research firm IDC, which published its own assessment on Friday since Apple does not break out its smartwatch sales.
随着消费者转向价格更便宜的iPhone SE，iPhone的总体销量比去年同期减少15%，营收暴跌23%。Mac电脑的销量减少11%，iPad销量减少9%。研究公司IDC的数据还显示，苹果最新的产品Apple Watch的销售额同比大跌55%。苹果公司不单独发布智能手表的销售状况，IDC在周五发布了自己的评估数字。
Just about the only bright spot for the company in its fiscal third quarter was its services business, which includes its iCloud storage business, Apple Music and Apple Pay. Revenue in the segment rose 19 percent to $6 billion, and Apple predicted strong future growth as it markets services to the owners of the more than 1 billion Apple devices in use.
包括iCloud存储、Apple Music和Apple Pay在内的服务业务，大概算是苹果公司第三财季报告中唯一的亮点。这部分业务的营收增长了19%，达到60亿美元。苹果预测，随着公司向超过10亿的苹果设备使用者宣传这些服务，这项业务未来还会有势头强劲的增长。
Overall, the company posted revenue of $42.4 billion, down 15 percent compared to the same quarter last year. Net income was $7.8 billion, or $1.42 a share, down 27 percent. That was less weakness than Wall Street had expected after Apple’s dismal performance last quarter, and the company’s stock rose 7 percent in after-hours trading.
苹果公司发布的第三财季总营收为424亿美元，相比去年同期减少15%。净收入为78亿美元，即每股1.42美元，下跌了27%。这样的业绩并没有华尔街在苹果上季度表现低迷之后做出的预测那么疲软。公司股价在盘后交易中上涨了7%。
Apple’s chief financial officer, Luca Maestri, said the numbers were not as bleak as they looked, as Apple held back on shipments to retailers, particularly in China, so that the stores could clear out their existing inventory of Apple gear. On that basis, iPhone sales were down only 8 percent, Maestri said.
苹果首席财务官卢卡·马埃斯特里(Luca Maestri)表示，这些数字不像看起来那么惨淡，因为苹果放慢了向零售商发货的节奏，尤其是在中国，目的是让这些商店清掉目前的苹果设备库存。马埃斯特里称，将这一因素计算在内的话，iPhone的销售量仅下降了8%。
Apple’s dismal results, which mirror its performance last quarter, were partly a result of the company’s position at the end of its product cycle. In September, it is expected to announce major upgrades to its iPhone hardware and software, something that happens every two years. Many Apple customers hold off buying a new phone in the months before a big release so that they can get the newest model.
苹果之所以出现与上季度类似的惨淡业绩，部分原因在于公司正处在产品周期的末段。预计苹果将在9月份宣布iPhone硬件和软件的重大升级。这样的升级基本上两年进行一次。在进行重大发布之前的这几个月里，许多苹果产品消费者会推迟购买新手机的时间，以便购得最新型号的产品。
But Apple is also wrestling with longer-term issues. The smartphone market in developed countries like the United States is saturated, newer markets like India buy hardly any iPhones, and China, long a source of growth for Apple, is itself slowing down.
不过，苹果也在努力应对一些更长期的问题。在美国等发达国家，智能手机市场趋向饱和，而印度等更新的市场的消费者则很少购买iPhone。作为苹果长期增长源头的中国，本身经济也在放缓。
The iPad is in long-term decline as consumers switch away from tablet computers to bigger smartphones instead. Personal computers of all makes and models have also been struggling for years.
随着消费者放弃购买平板电脑而选择尺寸更大的智能手机，iPad的销售呈现长期缩水的趋势。各品类与型号的个人电脑的销售也陷入了困境。
Apple has been cutting prices of important products in an effort to bolster sales, but that has done little to reverse the tide.
苹果一直在降低重要产品的售价，以便拉动销售，然而这对于扭转趋势几乎没什么帮助。