Updated, Added analysis and background on iPhone 5C pricing. 
关于iPhone 5C定价策略的最新补充分析和背景介绍。
Apple’s colorful plastic iPhone 5C hasn’t sold as well as the high-end iPhone 5S, likely for two reasons: Early adopters lined up for the fancier model, and the iPhone 5C simply isn’t very cheap in emerging markets like China.
色彩多变、塑料质地的苹果(Apple)iPhone 5C手机卖得不像高端的iPhone 5S那么好，很可能有两个原因，其一是早期尝试者排队等待的是那款更炫酷的款型，其二是iPhone 5C在中国等新兴市场的价格并不十分便宜。
So to help push sales of the cheaper phone, Apple on Tuesday said it would offer a new model of the iPhone 5C that is even cheaper.
有鉴于此，为了促进这款低价手机的销售，苹果公司(Apple)周二表示，公司将推出一种新型的iPhone5C，价格将会更低。
In China, France, Germany, Britain and Australia, Apple will offer a version of the iPhone 5C with 8 gigabytes of storage, down from the previous 16GB base model. The price will vary depending on the country.
苹果将在中国、法国、德国、英国和澳大利亚出售机身内存为8G的新型iPhone 5C，之前的基础版为16G。新型手机的价格因国家而异。
In China, the new iPhone 5C’s starting price is listed as 4,088 renminbi, or about $665. Before, the starting price was 4,488 renminbi, about $730, for the 16GB model.
在中国，新型iPhone 5C的起价为4088元人民币（约合665美元）。在此之前，16G的iPhone5C的起价为4488元人民币（约合730美元）。
That price difference may sound negligible, but Jan Dawson, an independent telecom analyst for Jackdaw Research, said a $65 price cut can make a significant difference because many people pay for phones offered at a discounted price with a contract, rather than paying the full price up front.
这个差价可能显得非常小，但市场研究公司Jackdaw Research的独立电信分析师简·道森(Jan Dawson)表示，65美元的降价可以带来显著差异，因为很多人都在以折扣价格购买合约机，而不是预先支付全价。
“Given the range of prices for relatively new Android devices, it’s important for Apple to be able to compete at multiple price points,” he said. “It’s a play for the middle part of the market that’s not looking for the cheapest possible device and wants something decent, but isn’t willing to pay top dollar.”
“鉴于相对较新的Android手机有各种各样的价位，对于苹果来说，在多个价格点进行竞争的能力非常重要，”他说。“这适合中端市场，这些人不是什么便宜买什么，想要好一些的手机，但又不愿花太多钱。”
The company is still offering its low-end option, the iPhone 4S, in those markets. It is continuing to position the iPhone 5C as a mid-tier option. “The mid-tier iPhone segment is growing year-over-year and the 8GB model provides a more affordable option for markets where LTE is becoming more established,” said Teresa Brewer, an Apple spokeswoman.
苹果公司将继续在这些市场出售低端的iPhone 4S，并将继续把 iPhone 5C定位为中端产品。“中端iPhone手机的销量同比出现了增长，8G版的手机为一些市场提供了更实惠的选择，这些市场的长期演进(LTE)技术日趋成熟。”
In another sign that Apple is trying to be more aggressive on price, the company on Tuesday also made a change to its iPad lineup. For its cheapest 9.7-inch iPad, sold for $400, Apple is now offering the fourth-generation iPad with a “retina” display and faster processor; previously it had sold the second-generation iPad with a standard-resolution display at that price.
周二，该公司还对iPad系列产品进行了调整，这是苹果试图提高价格竞争力的又一迹象。对于售价400美元、最便宜的9.7英寸iPad，苹果将推出第四代产品，配有“retina”显示屏和更快的处理器；在此之前，只配有标准分辨率屏幕的第二代iPad也以400美元的价格出售。