If Apple continues on its current trajectory, something remarkable might happen on April 9, 2015, at around 11 a.m.
如果苹果公司(Apple)沿着现有轨迹发展，2015年4月9日上午11:00左右，可能会发生一件了不起的事情。
That is, statisticians and investors I've spoken with say, a conservative estimate of when Apple could become the first company ever to be valued at $1 trillion. (Yes, you read that correctly: the number one, followed by 12 zeros.)
与我交流过的统计学家和投资者认为，保守估计届时苹果将成为有史以来第一家市值达到1万亿美元的公司。（是的，你没看错，数字1后面跟着12个0。）
Other analysts are making even more aggressive estimates for the company's value, which, as of Friday, was $656 billion. Those people put the trillion-dollar mark at less than a year from now: Aug. 16, 2013.
截至上周五，苹果公司的市值为6560亿美元。另一些分析人士对苹果市值的估计甚至更加大胆，他们认为苹果突破万亿美元大关的日期是2013年8月16日，距现在不到一年。
"It's hard to imagine Apple growing any faster than it has grown on both the release of the iPad and iPhone," said Michael E. Driscoll, chief executive of Metamarkets, a big data and predictive analytics company, and one of the people betting Apple will top $1 trillion in 2015.
大数据和预测分析公司Metamarkets的首席执行官迈克尔·E·德里斯科尔(Michael E. Driscoll)说，“很难想象苹果会比发布iPad和iPhone时增长得更快。”他也认为苹果会在2015年迈过万亿市值大关。
Estimating when, or if, Apple will become the first to be worth $1 trillion is a bit of a parlor game, but we can all likely agree on one fact: today, it is a juggernaut.
预测苹果能否成为第一家市值超过万亿美元的公司，以及何时会成为，有点像是纸上谈兵。但我们可能都会同意一个事实：今天的苹果公司，是一个巨头。
Not long ago, Apple was a boutique PC maker. Since then, it has rolled over almost every company in its path, first with music players, then with cellphones and, more recently, with laptops. Nokia, Sony, Research in Motion, Dell and Hewlett-Packard have all watched open-mouthed as Apple took markets they thought were secured. Each time, Apple's stock rose and their stock fell.
不久以前，苹果还只是一家精品个人电脑制造商。从那时到现在，苹果已经击败了其发展历程中遭遇的几乎每一家公司，首先是音乐播放器，之后是手机，最近是笔记本电脑。诺基亚(Nokia)、索尼(Sony)、RIM (Research in Motion)、戴尔(Dell)和惠普(Hewlett-Packard)都曾目瞪口呆地看着苹果夺走了自己本来以为很牢固的市场。每一次，苹果的股价都会上涨，这些公司的股价则随之下跌。
"They are certainly a different kind of company," said Walter Piecyk, a wireless research analyst at BTIG Research. But, he warned: "So was Nokia in the late '90s. No one thought they'd ever be challenged, and look at where they are today."
BTIG研究公司(BTIG Research)的无线行业研究分析师沃尔特·皮西科(Walter Piecyk)说，“苹果当然是一种不同的公司。”但他也警告说，“就像90年代末时的诺基亚一样，当时没有人觉得诺基亚会受到挑战，但是你看诺基亚今天到了什么位置。”
Even with this growth, there is another possibility: that Apple never reaches $1 trillion. "In a worst-case scenario, Apple could befall the fate of Microsoft, which had a similarly dizzying peak in late 1999," Mr. Driscoll said. "In this scenario, it will never happen."
尽管曾有这样的增长，却还有另一种可能性存在，即苹果市值永远达不到1万亿美元。“最糟糕的情况是，微软(Microsoft)的命运可能会降临到苹果身上，前者在1999年底也曾到达了令人头晕目眩的巅峰。”德里斯科尔说，“如果是这种情况，苹果市值就永远都不会达到1万亿美元。”
If $1 trillion were the peak of Mount Everest, Microsoft would have been rising through the highest base camp in December 1999, when its market capitalization hit an all-time high of $616.3 billion. Since then, the company has slid down the side of the mountain and is currently valued at a mere $261 billion.
如果说1万亿美元是珠穆朗玛峰的峰顶，那么微软在1999年12月本来可以从海拔最高的营地继续攀升，当时，微软市值达到了其历史最高点6163亿美元。但从那以后，微软就开始走下坡路，目前市值仅为2610亿美元。
Indeed, the flap over the poor-quality maps on the iPhone 5 has led some people to wonder if Apple has already jumped the shark. But remember how well it has weathered other challenges, like poorly functioning antennas and Siri's erratic behavior.
iPhone 5低质地图引发的不满，确实开始让一些人怀疑，苹果已经失去了水准。但请记住，苹果已经很好地经受住了其他挑战，例如手机信号接收不良和Siri的不稳定表现。
Apple is different from Microsoft. "When Microsoft peaked in 2000, it had 20 years running the PC revolution. We're essentially only five years into the smartphone revolution," said Charles S. Wallman, a securities analyst who runs an investment group in Middleton, Wis. "Apple has 435 million customers based on the number of credit cards in iTunes. That's 6 percent of the world's population. It's not a stretch to say it can get to 10 or 12 percent of the world's population." (Before we go any further, stop and reflect on the power that gives Apple.)
苹果和微软不一样。“微软2000年达到顶峰时，它已经在个人电脑革命中发展了20年。我们现在经历的智能手机革命，实质上才只有五年时间。”在威斯康星州米德尔顿经营一家咨询集团的证券分析师查尔斯·S·沃尔曼(Charles S. Wallman)说，“根据iTunes中的信用卡号码，苹果有4.35亿名顾客。相当于世界人口的6%，将这个比例提高到全球人口的10%或12%并不是很困难。”（在继续讨论之前，先停下来思考一下，这个数字向苹果赋予了多大的力量。）
Even if Apple didn't enter any new product categories, it could reach $1 trillion by doubling its sales. That's hard for a big company, but in many respects, it is already happening. According to the latest statistics released by I.H.S. iSuppli, a research company, the Apple iPad accounts for nearly 70 percent of the tablet market. BTIG Research predicts Apple will sell 45 million iPhones in the December quarter alone. (During the same quarter last year, the company sold 37 million iPhones, doubling its revenue from a year earlier.)
即使苹果不进军任何新的产品种类，通过销售量翻番，它也可以达到1万亿美元市值。对于一家大公司，做到销售量翻番并不容易，但从很多方面观察，这一现象已经在发生了。根据研究公司IHS iSuppli发布的最新统计数据，苹果的iPad在平板电脑市场占据了近70%的份额。BTIG研究公司预测，今年四季度苹果将会售出4500万台iPhone。去年同一季度，该公司售出了3700万台iPhone，比上年的收入翻了一番。
While it used to be a presence in the United States and a nobody overseas, Apple is now rolling out products like the iPhone 5 worldwide on the same day. The company will also, predictably, continue to increase its global retail division of 388 stores. These stores make an average of $5,647 in sales per square foot. By comparison, shopping malls in the United States make an average of $341 in sales per square foot.
苹果的市场曾经仅限于美国，在海外不为人知。而现在iPhone 5这样的产品却会在同一天向全世界发售。可以预料，苹果还会继续扩大该公司已经有388家商店的全球零售部门。这些商店每平方英尺的平均销售额达到5647美元。与之相比，美国的购物中心每平方英尺的平均销售额仅有341美元。
The company will continue to grow in China, too, where many of the more than one billion people who own mobile phones are upgrading to smartphones.
苹果公司也会继续在中国增长，中国的十几亿人口中，很多拥有手机的人要升级为智能手机。
And don't forget those clunky old PCs. While other computer makers have lost ground, sales of Macs have grown each quarter for the past six years.And none of these staggering drivers of growth consider Apple entering entirely new markets.
此外，不要忘了那些笨重的个人电脑。其他个人电脑厂商丧失市场份额的同时，Mac的销量在过去六年中，每个季度都在上涨。另外，所有这些令人瞠目结舌的增长因素，都没有考虑苹果进入全新市场的可能性。
"When we invented the car, it was a substitute for horses, but it was the second phase of the car revolution - when we invent things around the cars like gas stations and drive-ins - that created new business markets," Mr. Wallman said. "We're seeing this happen now with the technology we have in our hands. We're entering the second phase of this revolution, where entirely new markets will be created, and Apple could create those."
“我们发明汽车时，它只是马的替代品。但在汽车革命的第二阶段，也就是发明汽车周边的设施，如加油站以及可驾车驶入的商业设施时，创造了新的商业市场。”沃尔曼说，“我们也可以在手中的科技产品中，观察到相似的情形。我们正在进入这场革命的第二阶段，这个阶段会创造出全新的市场，而这些市场可能是由苹果创造出来的。”
For instance, Apple could transform the television industry, making its own TV set built on iOS, which analysts estimate could bring in another $20 billion a year in revenue. Or it could try to reinvent money itself, turning on the 435 million credit cards it has on file and enabling mobile payments. And there are consumer electronics areas that haven't even been invented yet, like wearable computing.
例如，苹果可以改变电视产业，利用iOS操作系统制造自己的电视机，分析人士估计这种产品能带来每年200亿美元的额外利润。苹果公司还可以尝试重新发明货币，利用在该公司登记的4.35亿张信用卡，启用移动支付功能。还有其他尚未发明出来的消费电子市场，比如可穿戴的计算设备。