The federal court jury’s decision Friday in a smartphone patent lawsuit between Apple and Samsung is expected to alter the dynamics of the highly competitive mobile phone industry.
上周五，美国联邦法院陪审团对苹果公司(Apple)和三星公司(Samsung)之间的专利诉讼案做出裁决。预计这项裁决将会改变竞争激烈的手机行业的面貌。
For Samsung, which lost on almost every count in the closely watched trial in San Jose, Calif., and was ordered to pay more than $1 billion in damages, the implications are more obvious. It will have to be cautious in how it designs products to avoid being accused of imitating Apple.
这场被外界密切关注的审判在圣何塞进行，三星几乎彻底败诉，并且被判支付超过10亿美元的赔偿金。对三星而言，其中的意义不言而喻。公司将来设计产品时必须谨慎，避免被控抄袭苹果。
Other makers may become more cautious, too. Google, which makes the Android software that runs at the core of Samsung phones, will clearly feel an impact through its hardware-making partner. Microsoft, however, which is attempting to enter the market with new software, will feel less of an effect, industry experts said.
其他生产商也可能变得更加谨慎。谷歌公司(Google)制造了三星手机的核心软件操作系统Android，通过其硬件制造伙伴，谷歌显然也会感受到其中的影响。不过，行业专家称，正准备用新软件进入手机市场的微软公司(Microsoft)所受的影响将比较少。
Apple has been the smartphone market leader. It defined the category in the way phones look and how users interact with them. Most popular smartphones today are a slab of glass and metal controlled through a touch-screen full of icons arrayed on the screen. Because consumers are familiar with that format, phones from various makers tended to look and behave similarly.
苹果一直是智能手机市场的领头羊。它定义了智能手机的外观以及用户与手机的互动方式。如今流行的大部分智能手机都是玻璃和金属构成的直板手机，通过触摸屏控制，屏幕上布满了图标。消费者对这种形式比较熟悉，所以，不同生产商的手机都倾向于采用类似的外观和操作方式。
Those similarities might be the first things to change. “Companies in the future are going to have to consider how much they want their product to look and feel like their competitors’ products in terms of shape, size, the way it feels, the way it looks, how the icons are similar, or will the icons be quite dissimilar” said Robert W. Dickerson Jr., a lawyer who is the head of the West Coast intellectual property practice for Dickstein Shapiro, a patent law firm not involved in the Samsung-Apple case.
首先将被改变的，可能就是这些相似性。Dickstein Shapiro律师事务所西海岸知识产权事务部主管小罗伯特·W·迪克森(Robert W. Dickerson Jr.)称，“未来各家公司将必须考虑，它们希望自家的产品与竞争者的产品在形状、大小、触感、观感方面有多大程度的相似，彼此的图标是雷同还是有差别。” Dickstein Shapiro是一家专利法事务所，没有参与三星-苹果案。
Microsoft and its main hardware partner Nokia, at the very least, should have an easier time of it. Robert Barr, executive director of the University of California Berkeley’s Center for Law and Technology, said that the user interface — the icons and other features that users see and touch — of the Nokia Windows phones look distinctly different from the iPhone. Nokia, a longtime maker of phones, also has a thick portfolio of patents to protect itself. For Microsoft and Nokia, which are trying to make a comeback in smartphones, this design distinction is a clear advantage in the internecine patent wars sweeping the industry as much as it is a marketing advantage.
微软及其主要硬件伙伴诺基亚公司(Nokia)起码会轻松一点。加州大学伯克利分校(University of California Berkeley)法律与技术中心(Center for Law and Technology)的执行主管罗伯特·巴尔(Robert Barr)称，诺基亚Windows手机的用户界面——用户看到和触摸的图标和其他功能——看起来与iPhone有着明显的区别。作为长期的手机生产商，诺基亚也拥有多项专利保护自己。微软和诺基亚正试图在智能手机市场东山再起，对它们而言，设计上的区分度不仅能在这场席卷全行业的专利战中取得明显优势，还能获得营销优势。
Things could get tougher, however, for Google, or any phone maker using its Android software. Android phones are the most common smartphones on the market today. Samsung is the world’s largest maker of smartphones and it has been quickly gaining market share. Collectively, the various Android phones from Samsung and other makers easily outsell Apple’s iPhones.
不过，对谷歌和所有使用Android软件的手机生产商而言，事情则会变得更加艰难。Android手机是当今市场上最常见的智能手机。三星是世界上最大的手机生产商，其市场份额还在迅速增长。三星和其他生产商制造的各种Android手机加起来的销量能轻易打败苹果的iPhone。