Apple’s ambitions to go head to head with Netflix and create its own lineup of exclusive movies and TV shows has long been the subject of much chatter and speculation.
苹果公司(Apple)有着和Netflix一决高下、自行制作一系列独播电影和电视剧的雄心壮志，人们一直以来都是这样八卦和揣测的。
But its first original TV project — a nonscripted series about apps — might sound more like a marketing campaign than a blockbuster production.
但它的首部原创电视剧——一部和应用程序有关的无剧本剧集——似乎是以市场推广为目的，而非什么宏篇巨制。
Apple announced on Thursday that it was working with the entertainer Will.i.am and two veteran TV executives, Ben Silverman and Howard T. Owens, on a new show that will spotlight the app economy.
苹果公司周四宣布，它正与艺人威廉(Will.I.Am)以及两位经验老道的电视界高管——本·西尔弗曼(Ben Silverman)和霍华德·T·欧文斯(Howard T. Owens)——合作，打造一部聚焦应用程序经济的电视剧。
“One of the things with the app store that was always great about it was the great ideas that people had to build things and create things,” Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president of Internet software and services, said in an interview.
“一直以来，应用程序商店的一个伟大之处，就在于其伟大的理念：人们必须构建和创造点什么，”苹果公司负责互联网软件与服务业务的高级副总裁艾迪·库伊(Eddy Cue)接受采访时说。
Details about the production are scant, and it was unclear how directly the show would promote or refer to Apple’s own app store. Executives declined to discuss specifics, such as financing, title, timeline, storylines, episode length or how people will watch the show.
外界对这部剧集的制作细节所知甚少，也不清楚它会在多大程度上直接推广或提及苹果自家的应用程序商店。苹果公司高管拒绝透露资金筹措、剧名、时间表、故事情节、每集时长以及观看方式等细节。
The series represents Apple’s first original effort outside the music category, where it has released programming such as Taylor Swift’s 1989 world tour, a docu-series with Vice about the local music scene and exclusive video interviews with artists like Adele.
该剧集代表着苹果公司在音乐领域之外首次尝试打造原创作品的努力。它此前发布的泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)《1989》世界巡演视频、与Vice联合制作的介绍本地乐坛的纪录片以及独家专访阿黛尔(Adele)等歌手的视频，都与音乐有关。
Mr. Cue said that the new series did not signal a broader ambition by the company to greatly bolster its presence in original productions and streaming video. Last year, Apple was rumored to be exploring options for original programing and held talks with a number of big TV companies about offering a streaming television service.
库伊说，这部新剧集并不意味着苹果公司怀有更大的野心，想要在原创影视作品和流媒体视频领域极大提升自己的存在感。去年，有传言称，苹果正在探索制作原创节目的可能性，还跟很多大型电视公司就提供流媒体电视服务进行了洽谈。
“This doesn’t mean that we are going into a huge amount of movie production or TV production or anything like that,” Mr. Cue said. He added that the company would continue to explore exclusive projects similar to the series about apps or its push into music programming.
“这并不意味着我们会大量制作电影、电视节目或者其他类似的东西，”库伊说。他还表示，苹果公司会继续推出与该应用程序剧集类似的独家作品，也会继续制作音乐节目。
The new app show came about after Mr. Silverman brought the idea to Apple. Mr. Silverman, who is an executive producer of the TV series “Jane the Virgin,” “Marco Polo” and “Flaked,” worked with Mr. Cue nearly a decade ago when he was an executive producer of “The Office,” which was made available on iTunes.
这部与应用程序有关的剧集，发端于西尔弗曼提交给苹果公司的相关创意。西尔弗曼是《处女情缘》(Jane the Virgin)、《马可波罗》(Marco Polo)、《筋疲力竭》(Flaked)等电视剧的执行制作人，他在不到10年前担任已入驻 iTunes的《办公室》(The Office)的执行制作人期间，和库伊有过合作。
“We thought it was perfectly tailored for Apple,” Mr. Cue said.
“我们认为它是为苹果量身定制的，”库伊说。