On Tuesday, Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, again teased tech blogs about new Apple gadgetry.
周二，苹果(Apple)首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)再一次向众多科技博客透露了一些苹果新产品的信息。
“We are laser-focused and working hard on some amazing new products that we will introduce in the fall and across 2014,” Mr. Cook said at the company’s earnings call.
“我们的注意力像激光一样集中，正全力打造一些精彩的新产品，会在今年秋天和2014年陆续介绍给大家，”库克在公司的盈余电话会议上说。
What could these elusive “new products” be? Here are a few possibilities:
这些见首不见尾的“新产品”会是些什么？以下是一些猜测：
Since at least late 2011, Apple has been trying to figure out how to reinvent the television. At that time, Apple employees and people close to the company, all speaking on condition of anonymity, said that a television “was not actively being built, but Apple would eventually make a television.” But they did say it wasn’t a question of whether Apple would expand into the television market, but a question of when.
苹果至少从2011年末就开始思考如何再造电视了。当时，一些要求匿名的苹果员工和熟悉公司内情的人士说，目前公司还没有全力投入电视机的开发，“但苹果最终会生产一种电视机。”不过他们还说苹果毫无疑问会向电视市场扩张，只是时间早晚的问题。
Since then, many reports have indicated that the company continues to explore television-related products. In March, speaking at the D: All Things Digital technology conference, Mr. Cook said Apple had ”a very grand vision” for the television.
此后有许多报道指出，苹果正在继续探索电视机相关的产品。在三月的“D：一切皆数码”(D: All Things Digital)科技研讨会上，库克说，苹果对电视已经有了“一个非常宏大的构想。”
Just making a fancy television set with an Apple logo on it would be underwhelming, because there are plenty of nice TVs already. But the way people find things to watch with a clunky remote control or a cumbersome channel interface is ripe for disruption. Apple is collaborating with distributors like Time Warner Cable and some content providers on fixing these problems on set-top boxes before moving further into TV land.
如果只是做一台贴了苹果标志的漂亮电视机就太无聊了，因为市面上已经有不少不错的电视。然而有些地方该做出些改变了，比如要用笨重的遥控器或繁琐的频道界面来寻找想看的内容。苹果正在和时代华纳有线(Time Warner Cable)等发行商以及一些内容提供商合作，在进一步踏入电视领域前，先解决机顶盒的这些问题。
A new product that is most likely to come in the near future sounds less than revolutionary: a less expensive iPhone. Apple already sells older-generation iPhone models for less than the latest model, but the company’s devices are struggling to gain traction in some big markets overseas, namely China. Apple still has not struck a deal to sell iPhones with China’s biggest cellphone carrier, China Mobile, which has 600 million subscribers. A cheaper, new iPhone model — perhaps one with a plastic back instead of metal — could be the card Apple needs to play in order to persuade the carrier.
有一个新产品在不久后推出的可能性比较大，但却没那么具有革命性：一款没那么昂贵的iPhone。苹果一直在以低于最新款的价格出售老款iPhone，但在一些大的海外市场——也就是中国，它的产品显得竞争乏力。苹果至今还没有和拥有6亿用户的中国头号手机运营商中国移动达成协议。一款全新的廉价版iPhone——可能会使用塑料而非金属后盖——也许能成为苹果的敲门砖，以期说服该运营商与它合作。
And, of course, there’s the so-called AppleiWatch. The iWatch, as it has been nicknamed, is expected to have a curved screen and would be Apple’s first serious foray into wearable computing.
另外当然还有所谓的AppleiWatch。这种绰号iWatch的产品预计会有弧面屏，将是苹果首次真正尝试进入可佩带计算技术领域。
All of the right pieces seem to line up for the iWatch, too. Corning, the maker of the ultra-tough Gorilla Glass that is used in the iPhone, has scaled the engineering challenge of creating bendable glass that could be used in the iWatch.
一切都在为iWatch做着准备。康宁(Corning)公司生产的高强度玻璃Gorilla Glass已经用于iPhone，目前公司已经克服可弯曲玻璃这个工程难题，可以将之用于iWatch。
Recent reports by Forrester Research predict that the next devices and platforms that companies should focus on will be based on wearable computing.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)近日发布的报告预测，各公司会关注的下一个设备和平台将是基于可佩戴计算技术的。
Or Apple could enter an entirely new product category. But that seems unlikely. As Philip W. Schiller, Apple’s senior vice president of worldwide product marketing, said last year, Apple executives once talked about making “crazy stuff,” including an Apple car.
苹果也可以进入一个全新的产品门类。但这种可能性不大。正如苹果全球产品营销高级副总裁菲利普·W·席勒(Philip W. Schiller)在去年所说，苹果管理层一度探讨过要做“疯狂的玩意”，其中包括一款苹果汽车。