At first, I thought it was my imagination. Around the time the iPhone 5S and 5C were released, in September, I noticed that my sad old iPhone 4 was becoming a lot more sluggish. The battery was starting to run down much faster, too. But the same thing seemed to be happening to a lot of people who, like me, swear by their Apple products. When I called tech analysts, they said that the new operating system (iOS 7) being pushed out to existing users was making older models unbearably slow. Apple phone batteries, which have a finite number of charges in them to begin with, were drained by the new software. So I could pay Apple $79 to replace the battery, or perhaps spend 20 bucks more for an iPhone 5C. It seemed like Apple was sending me a not-so-subtle message to upgrade.
一开始，我还以为这只是我在瞎猜。9月份，iPhone 5S和5C面世前后，我发现我那可怜的老iPhone 4变得迟钝了许多。电池用的也越来越快。但很多人也遭遇了同样的情况，他们和我一样，都是果粉。后来我给科技业分析师打电话，他们说，硬推给现有用户的新操作系统(iOS7)让人们手里的较老款产品变得异常迟缓。苹果手机电池本来就有固定的充电次数寿命，在使用新操作系统后，电量更是消耗得非常快。这样一来，我要么付给苹果79美元来更换电池，要么再多花20美元去购买一个iPhone 5C。看起来，苹果发出了一个挺直白的信号，就是让我赶快升级换代。
Of course, there are more benign explanations. The new software and recent app updates offer fancy new features that existing users want; maybe the battery is sealed with tiny five-point screws for aesthetic considerations. Perhaps, but this isn’t the first time that tech analysts and random crazies on the Internet have noted that breakdowns in older Apple products can often coincide with when upgrades come onto the market. Many have taken this as evidence of “planned obsolescence,” a term that dates to the Great Depression, when a real estate broker suggested that the government should stimulate the economy by placing artificial expiration dates on consumer products so people would buy more.
当然，你也可以给出比较善意的解释。新操作系统和最近的软件升级，能够给予老用户一直想要的酷炫新功能；而苹果之所以把电池用五点螺丝(five-point screws)封装起来，完全是出于对美观的考虑。也许吧，但是这也不是第一次；之前，科技分析师和网上的某些狂人也曾提出，每当新升级问世，老款苹果产品碰巧就会崩溃。很多人以此为据，认为这是“按计划报废”(planned obsolescence)。这个词起源于大萧条时代，那个时候，一个地产经纪人给政府提建议，认为可以给消费品人为设定一个有效期，这样人们就会消费得更多，从而提振经济。
To conspiracy-theory-hungry observers (and some of the rest of us), it might make sense that Apple would employ this business strategy. The tech giant, after all, has reached near-saturation levels in the U.S. smartphone market. If iPhones work forever, people who already own the devices­ won’t buy new ones. Furthermore, selling products with finite life spans can be good for consumers, depending on their tastes and how informed they are. The fashion industry, whose entire mission is to essentially render products obsolete long before they cease to be functional, does this regularly. I buy clothes from H&M and other low-cost, trend-driven stores knowing full well that the pieces might fall apart after a year’s worth of washes. And if the clothes won’t be fashionable next year anyway, who cares? Improving the durability — and thereby cost — of the clothes would probably just drive away price-sensitive shoppers like me. Apple has similar considerations. Would the additional longevity of the battery be valuable enough to its core consumers to justify the inevitable higher price?
对于那些总想要寻找阴谋论的观察员来说（还有我们当中一些别的人也是），苹果采用这样的商业策略，其实是能够说得通的。不管怎么说，作为科技界巨头，苹果在美国智能手机市场上的占有率已经达到近乎饱和的程度。如果iPhone永远不坏，那些已经持有的用户就不会继续购买新设备了。此外，考虑到消费者的品味和信息灵通程度，出售有着固定使用寿命的产品对于消费者也是有好处的。时尚产业经常在其产品尚有使用价值的时候，就让它们变得过时，这就是时尚产业的全部使命。我从H&M和其他廉价时尚品牌那儿买衣服时，非常清楚，在一年之后，这些衣服就会因为漂洗而散架。但是又有谁会在意呢？毕竟这件衣服明年不会再流行了。如果提高衣服的使用寿命（也就意味着提高衣服的成本），那么很有可能会赶走那些像我一样，对价格敏感的消费者。苹果也有类似的考虑。如果提高电池的使用寿命，那么对于苹果的核心消费者来说，额外增加的成本是否能够带来足够的价值？
Economists have theories about market conditions that encourage planned obsolescence. A company has strong incentives to degrade product durability when it has a lot of market power and when consumers don’t have good substitute products to choose from. (That’s what happened with the international light-bulb cartel of the early 20th century, which penalized its members for manufacturing bulbs that lasted more than 1,000 hours.) When Apple started making the iPhone in 2007, its product was so innovative that it could have deliberately degraded durability without fear. But in the last couple years, the company has faced stiffer competition from Samsung and HTC, among others, which should deincentivize planned obsolescence. “Buyers are smart, and if they start figuring out that one of the costs of buying Apple’s products is that they’re constantly nickel-and-diming you, they’ll switch,” said Austan Goolsbee, an economics professor at the University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business.
经济学家提出了各种理论，指出在有些市场条件下，故意让老产品落伍是被鼓励的。当一家公司在市场上力量极大，而消费者又没有好的替代品可供选择时，该公司就会有强烈的意愿降低产品的使用寿命。（这就是为什么在20世纪初，国际电灯企业联盟有规定，如果该组织成员生产的灯泡，使用寿命超过1000个小时，联盟就会对该成员进行处罚。）2007年，苹果开始推出iPhone，这一产品在当时极具创新性，因此苹果可以故意降低产品的使用寿命，而没有任何担忧。但在最近一两年，苹果遭遇了来自三星和HTC等竞争者的挑战，且竞争日益激烈。这本来是应该抑制“按计划报废”这种策略的。奥斯坦·古尔斯比(Austan Goolsbee)是芝加哥大学布斯商学院(University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business)的经济学教授，他指出，“消费者是很聪明的。如果他们发现，购买苹果产品之后，总会遭到苹果的算计，他们就会换别的产品。”
Well, maybe. A company could still be encouraged to engage in planned obsolescence if consumers perceive large “switching costs” associated with going to a new brand. There are plenty of economics textbooks to choose from, for instance, and yet publishers still artificially make their old editions unusable by changing pagination or scrambling homework questions because they know teachers don’t want to deal with learning a whole new book.
好吧，有可能是这样的。不过，如果消费者们认为，去换另一个牌子的产品会有很大的“转换成本”，那么原来的公司还是有“按计划报废”的冲动。比方说，市场上可供选择的经济学教科书非常多，但出版商知道，老师们不愿意花时间为新书备课。因而出版商还是会采用各种诡计，比方说更改书的页码或者打乱问题的顺序，人为地让老版教材变得难以使用。
Similarly, iPhone users have probably purchased complementary products, like apps, that won’t transfer to Android phones. They also probably have a network of iPhone-using friends with whom they can chat free using Apple’s Messages app (instead of paying for text messages). These switching costs increase Apple’s incentives to force its existing customers to upgrade by making older models gradually become more dysfunctional.
类似的，iPhone用户很有可能购买了iPhone的配套产品，例如应用程序，这些是没有办法移到Android手机上的。用户身边的朋友圈可能都在用iPhone，因此使用苹果的短信息应用，就能够免费聊天（而不用花钱发短信了）。因为这些转换成本的存在，苹果会有动力去强制老用户升级；他们只要让老款产品慢慢无法正常工作就行了。
There is, however, a simple way to effectively render an old product obsolete without fleecing your existing customers. Instead of degrading the old model, companies can offer innovations in the new model that make upgrading irresistible. Apple succeeded at doing this for a while, offering new iPhones that included major improvements. In the past, consumers were so excited about the cool new features, like Siri, the voice-activated interface, that they may not have minded (or even noticed) if their old phones started to deteriorate; they planned on upgrading anyway. This time around, that’s less true. The iPhone 5S and 5C offer fewer quantum improvements. Consumers are more likely to want their old phones to continue working at peak condition in perpetuity, and to feel cheated when they don’t.
但是，还有一个简单的办法，能够在不压榨老用户的同时，让老款产品落伍。公司完全不必让老款产品越来越不好使，他们可以在新产品中加入创新功能；面对此类升级的诱惑，消费者将无法抵抗。过去一段时间，苹果成功地做到了这一点，他们推出的新款手机总有重大改善。过去，消费者总是对这些新功能非常兴奋（比方说Siri，那款声控交互界面）。这样一来，消费者不会介意（甚至不会发现）他们的老款手机是否不好用了，反正他们早就计划好要升级了。而这一次似乎不是这么回事儿了。iPhone 5S和5C提供的重量级改进要少得多。消费者更可能希望，他们的老款手机能够以最佳状态一直工作下去，如果他们发现不是这样，他们就会有种被欺诈的感觉。
When major innovations remain out of reach, and degrading durability threatens to tick off loyal customers, companies like Apple can still take a cue from the fashion industry. If you can brainwash consumers into developing new tastes that make the old stuff look uncool for aesthetic rather than functional reasons, you still have a shot at harvesting more sales from your existing customer base. But it seems Apple may have already figured this out too. Just check out the wait times for the iPhone 5S in that shiny new gold color.
如果没有重大创新，而且降低使用寿命会让忠诚的顾客灰心，苹果这样的公司还是可以借鉴时尚产业。如果你能对消费者进行洗脑，让他们改变品味，仅仅从审美角度认为老产品不再炫酷，而不考虑其是否能够正常工作，那么你还有机会从现有顾客身上获得更多的销售机会。不过，苹果似乎已经搞懂这一点了。你不妨算算，光灿灿的新“土豪金”色iPhone 5S的购买等待时间有多长。