Apple is the new most valuable brand in the world, according to a closely followed annual report.
一份备受关注的年度报告显示，苹果(Apple)已经成为全世界最有价值的品牌。
The report, to be released on Monday, is from Interbrand, a corporate identity and brand consulting company owned by the Omnicom Group that has been compiling what it calls the Best Global Brands report since 2000. The previous No. 1 brand, Coca-Cola, fell to No. 3.
将于周一发布的该报告出自企业形象与品牌咨询公司Interbrand之手。该公司隶属于宏盟集团(Omnicom Group)，从2000年起便开始编制名为《全球最佳品牌》(Best Global Brands)的报告。去年排名第1的品牌可口可乐(Coca-Cola)跌至第3位。
Not only has Apple replaced Coca-Cola as first among the 100 most valuable brands based on criteria that include financial performance, this is the first time that the soft drink known for slogans like “It’s the real thing” has not been No. 1.
在百大最具价值品牌中，可口可乐不仅仅是被苹果取代了第一的位置，今年也是这家因“这可是真家伙”(It’s the real thing)的广告口号而声名远扬的软饮料企业首次失去榜首的宝座。在这项品牌评比的过程中，标准涵盖了财务现状等各个方面。
Apple’s arrival in the top spot was perhaps “a matter of time,” Jez Frampton, global chief executive at Interbrand, said in a recent interview. Apple was No. 2 last year, climbing from No. 8 in the 2011 report.
前不久，Interbrand的全球首席执行官杰兹·弗兰普顿(Jez Frampton)在采访中表示，苹果排名升至首位可能只是“时间问题”。去年，苹果从2011年的第8位跃升至第2位。
“What is it they say, ‘Long live the king’?” Mr. Frampton asked. “This year, the king is Apple.”
“他们说什么来着，‘国王万岁’？” 弗兰普顿问道，“今年的国王是苹果。”
The 2013 report begins: “Every so often, a company changes our lives, not just with its products, but with its ethos. This is why, following Coca-Cola’s 13-year run at the top of Best Global Brands, Interbrand has a new No. 1 — Apple.”
2013年的报告是这样开头的：“有时，一家企业不仅会用产品，还会用自己的理念改变我们的生活。这正是在可口可乐占据全球最佳品牌第一宝座13年后，Interbrand找到了新的最具价值品牌苹果的原因。”
The report estimates the value of the Apple brand at $98.3 billion, up 28 percent from the 2012 report. The value of the Coca-Cola brand also rose, by 2 percent to $79.2 billion, but that was not sufficient to give Coca-Cola a 14th year as Interbrand’s most valuable brand.
报告估计，苹果品牌的价值为983亿美元（约合6000亿元人民币），同2012年报告中的估值相比，增加了28%。可口可乐品牌的价值也增加了2%，至792亿美元，但这并不足以让其继续第14年荣膺Interbrand最具价值品牌。
Although “Coca-Cola is an efficient, outstanding brand marketer, no doubt about it,” Mr. Frampton said, Apple and other leading technology brands have become “very much the poster child of the marketing community.”
弗兰普顿表示，尽管“可口可乐是一家高效、出色的品牌营销企业，这一点毋庸置疑，“但苹果等领先科技品牌已经“几乎成了营销界的明星”。
That is underscored by the brand in second place in the new report: Google, which rose from fourth place last year. In fact, of the top 10 Best Global Brands for 2013, five are in technology: Apple; Google; Microsoft, No. 5, unchanged from last year; Samsung, 8, compared with 9 last year; and Intel, 9, compared with 8 last year.
在新报告中排名升至第2的品牌谷歌(Google)也体现了这一点。去年，谷歌排名第4。实际上，在2013年全球最佳品牌排名前十的品牌中，科技企业占了五席。它们分别是苹果；谷歌；排名与去年持平，仍在第5位的微软(Microsoft)；从去年的第9升至今年的第8位的三星(Samsung)；以及从去年的第8跌至今年的第9的英特尔(Intel)。
Samsung’s ascent followed the company’s adoption of a new brand strategy called the Brand Ideal, which includes “a greater focus on social purpose,” Sue Shim, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at Samsung, said by e-mail. That reflected research indicating American consumers would switch brands to “one that was associated with improving people’s lives,” she added.
三星执行副总裁兼首席营销官沈秀玉（Sue Shim，音译）通过电子邮件表示，三星排名上升是因为采用了新的名为品牌理想(Brand Ideal)的战略，这一新战略包括了对“社会目标的更大关注”。她还说，有研究显示，美国消费者会转向“与改善人们生活相关的品牌”，而三星排名的上升印证了这一研究。
I.B.M. — No. 4 in 2013, down a notch from 2012 — is ranked as a business services brand. Otherwise, technology would account for six of the top 10.
排名从去年的第3跌至今年的第4的IBM被列为商务服务品牌。否则，科技企业将在前十品牌中占据六席。
“Brands like Apple and Google and Samsung are changing our behavior: how we buy, how we communicate with each other, even whether we speak with each other,” Mr. Frampton said. “They have literally changed the way we live our lives.”
“苹果、谷歌和三星等品牌在改变我们的行为方式：如何消费、何如与人交流，乃至是否与人说话，”弗兰普顿称。“它们的的确确改变了我们的生活方式。”
Among other transformative technology brands that performed well in the new report was Facebook, which climbed to 52 from 69 last year, its first year on the list.
在新报告中表现良好的革新性科技品牌还包括Facebook。它去年首次入围，名列69位，今年则攀升至52位。
However, not all technology brands fared well. BlackBerry, which tumbled last year to 93 from 56 in 2011, has disappeared from the list. And Nokia, which dropped to 19 from 14 in 2011, finished this year in 57th place — “the biggest faller” among the 100, Mr. Frampton said.
不过，也不是所有的科技品牌都混得不错。黑莓(BlackBerry)2011年名列56位，去年跌至93位，今年则在榜单中不见了踪影。诺基亚(Nokia)最近三年的排名分别是14位、19位和57位——按照弗兰普顿的话说，在百大品牌中“跌得最狠”。
Among nontechnology brands, a notable addition to the list was Chevrolet, at 89, the first General Motors brand to rank among the Best Global Brands.
在非科技品牌中，值得注意的榜单新兵是位列89的雪佛兰(Chevrolet)。这是通用汽车(General Motors)旗下首次有品牌跻身全球最佳品牌。
“It feels good to hit the list for the first time,” Alan Batey, global head of Chevrolet at G.M., said in a telephone interview. “It’s a great first step, but we’ve got a long way to go. There are a lot of big brands in front of us.”
雪佛兰品牌全球负责人阿兰・巴特(Alan Batey)通过电话接受采访称，“首次入围感觉很好。这是不错的第一步，不过我们还有很长的路要走。还有许多大品牌排在我们前面的。”
The milestone reflects how General Motors has been “making a conscious effort to globalize Chevrolet,” Mr. Batey said, selling the brand in 140 countries in ads that play up attributes like “value for money and designs that move hearts and minds.”
巴特表示，这一突破反映出，通用汽车一直“有意识地努力将雪佛兰全球化”，通过广告突出其“物有所值、设计用心合理”等特性，在140多个国家推销雪佛兰。
Last year, when Coca-Cola finished atop the Best Global Brands list for the 13th consecutive time, an executive at the Coca-Cola Company acknowledged the streak but noted that “nothing lasts forever.”
去年，可口可乐连续13年蝉联“全球最佳品牌”冠军的时候，该公司的一名高管在对这一成就表示感谢的同时也称“世无定事”。
A year later, the executive, Joseph V. Tripodi, executive vice president and chief marketing and commercial leadership officer, had this reaction: “Of course, we would like to remain on top of the list forever. That said, we are honored to continue to be included among such an esteemed group of global brands, and we congratulate Apple and Google, both valued partners of ours.”
一年过去了，这名高管——执行副总裁兼首席营销及商务领导力官约瑟夫·V.特里波迪(Joseph V. Tripodi)——这样回应：“当然了，我们希望能永远占据榜首。虽说如此，我们还是很荣幸能继续位居全球品牌的尊崇名单之列。我们向苹果和谷歌表示祝贺。二者均是我们珍视的合作伙伴。”
“We’ve seen the value of technology brands rise as they create new ways for people to stay connected virtually,” Mr. Tripodi said by e-mail. “We understand this, as the lasting power of our brand is built on the social moment of sharing a Coca-Cola with friends and family.”
“我们看到，科技品牌价值的崛起伴随的是，它们创造出新途径，让大家能在数字世界保持联系，”特里波迪通过电子邮件回应。“我们懂得这一点，因为我们品牌的持久魅力的基础就是那些与亲友分享可口可乐的时光。”
If it is consolation, Coca-Cola remains far ahead of Apple and Google in likes on Facebook fan pages. Coca-Cola has 73.2 million, compared with 9.8 million for Apple and 15.1 million for Google.
如果说有什么算得上安慰的话，在Facebook的粉丝页面上，可口可乐遥遥领先于苹果和谷歌。可口可乐有7320万人关注，相比之下，苹果和谷歌则分别为980万人和1510万人。