SHANGHAI — Last September, a young Chinese laborer named Shi Zhaokun began working long hours at a huge manufacturing plant here that produces Apple’s new iPhone 5C.
上海——今年9月，一名名叫史召坤的年轻中国工人，开始在这里的一座工厂上班，每天要劳作很长时间。那家制造厂规模巨大，为苹果公司(Apple)生产最新的iPhone 5C。
But on Oct. 9, Mr. Shi was unable to make it to work and checked into a hospital, his family says. Soon after, he was pronounced dead of pneumonia. Although his identification papers said he was 20, Mr. Shi was in fact just 15.
然而史召坤的家人说，10月9日，他却没能前去工作，而是进了医院。不久以后，医院就宣布他死于肺炎。尽管身份证件上显示他已经20岁了，但实际上他才15岁。
In China, he was too young to legally work on a factory floor.
在中国，他的年纪太小，还不能合法地在工厂工作。
The Pegatron Corporation, the Taiwanese manufacturer that employed him, said the workplace environment at the Shanghai plant was not the cause of his illness. But a spokeswoman acknowledged that several other young workers at the factory had also died in the past few months.
史召坤的雇主，隶属于台湾公司和硕集团(Pegatron Corporation)的制造企业昌硕科技表示，这座上海工厂里的工作环境并不是他患病的原因。但一位女发言人证实，过去几个月，这座工厂里还有其他几名年轻工人身亡。
Labor rights activists say Pegatron has failed to explain at least five deaths of young workers in recent months. They say workers interviewed by China Labor Watch, a nonprofit group that monitors working conditions in China, have complained about long working hours and harsh working conditions at Pegatron, including some of the same pressures that in previous years led to health and safety problems at Foxconn Technology, Apple’s biggest contract supplier in China.
劳工维权人士称，昌硕未能对近几个月中至少五名年轻工人的死亡作出解释。他们表示，关注中国工人工作条件的非营利团体中国劳工观察(China Labor Watch)采访的工人，抱怨昌硕工时长、工作条件恶劣，其中包括过去几年里在富士康(Foxconn Technology)造成健康和安全问题的相同压力。富士康是苹果在中国最大的代工厂。
“Considering the sudden deaths of five people and the similar reason of the deaths, we believe there should be some relations between the tragedy and the working conditions in the factory,” said Li Qiang, who runs China Labor Watch.
中国劳工观察负责人李强说，“考虑到有五人突然死亡，并且死因相似，我们认为这些悲剧与工厂的工作条件存在某种联系。”
Apple declined to comment on Tuesday on the deaths at Pegatron. But the company has gone to great lengths in the past year to improve conditions at the manufacturing facilities that produce Apple products in China. It has stepped up audits, insisted on new safety measures, and supported higher wages and tighter restrictions on working hours.
周二，苹果拒绝对昌硕工厂的死亡事件发表评论。但该公司表示，在过去一年里已经作出了巨大努力，改善为苹果制造产品的中国厂家的工作条件。苹果加紧了审计、坚持要求采取新的安全措施、支持提高工资，并对工时采取了更严格的限制。
Apple has even diversified its mix of suppliers with companies like Pegatron, which helps assemble Apple’s iPhones and iPads in China, according to people familiar with its operations.
苹果还通过昌硕这样的公司，促进了供应商构成的多样化，了解该公司经营的人士透露，昌硕在中国帮助苹果组装iPhone和iPad。
While Pegatron says it strictly forbids its factories from hiring workers under 16, the legal working age in China, Mr. Shi was able to work using a falsified identity card. In his only month at Pegatron, he worked nearly 280 hours, often 12 hours a day, six days a week, according to work documents his family kept.
尽管昌硕表示严格禁止其工厂雇佣年龄低于16岁的工人，这是中国法定允许工作的年龄，然而史召坤得以使用伪造的身份证工作。他的家人保留的工作记录显示，在昌硕上班的一个月里，他工作了将近280小时，经常每周工作六天、每天工作12小时。
Apple’s supplier responsibility statement bars employees of supplier companies in China from working more than 60 hours a week; so does Chinese law. But Mr. Shi worked 79 hours in his first week, 77 in his second and 75 in his third, all apparently in violation of the law, according to documents provided by his family.
苹果的供应商责任声明中，禁止中国的供应商要求员工每周工作超过60小时，中国法律也有同样的规定。然而他的家人提供的文件显示，史召坤第一周工作了79小时，第二周工作了77小时，第三周工作了75小时，全部都显然违反法律。
The company said that the work logs the family kept are records of when the young man clocked in and out, and may not include breaks. The company said his hours did not exceed the legal limit.
这家公司表示，史召坤家人保留的工时记录只是他打卡上班和下班的时间，可能并不包括工间休息。该公司表示，他的工时并没有超过法定限制。
“This is not related to the workplace environment,” a Pegatron spokeswoman said Tuesday, referring to the young man’s death.
昌硕的一名女发言周二评价史召坤的死亡说，“这与工作场所的环境无关。”
In late July, China Labor Watch released a report claiming that Pegatron was violating Chinese laws and Apple’s own social responsibility code of conduct. Among other things, the group said that Pegatron was forcing employees to work unpaid overtime.
今年7月底，中国劳工观察发布了一份报告称，昌硕违反了中国法律和苹果自身的社会责任准则。该组织称，昌硕的做法中包括强迫工人无薪加班。
Executives at Pegatron, which has 100,000 workers in Shanghai, said they were taking the accusations seriously.
昌硕高管表示，他们十分重视这些指控。该公司在上海有10万名工人。
The company spokeswoman said that Pegatron was deeply distraught by the deaths of the workers but that an investigation of the working conditions in the Shanghai factory found nothing unusual, no toxic chemicals or other hazards.
该公司的女发言人表示，公司对工人的死亡十分痛心，但是对上海工厂的工作环境开展调查后，并没有发现异常现象，没有有毒化学品或其他危险。
The company tried to resolve the case of Shi Zhaokun by paying his family compensation of about 90,000 renminbi, or about $15,000, according to Shi Zhaokun’s uncle, Yang Sen.
史召坤的姑父杨森说，昌硕公司打算通过支付9万元人民币，约合1.5万美元的补偿，来了结史召坤死亡的事件。
But on Tuesday, Mr. Yang insisted the matter was still not resolved. He said something must have gone wrong at the Pegatron workplace. On Sept. 4, he said, his nephew passed a pre-employment physical and was declared healthy.
但在周二，杨森坚持称，事情还没有解决。他说，昌硕车间里一定有问题。他说，他的侄子9月4日在入职前接受了体检，体检结果是健康。