Among the many things Tim Cook apparently learned at the knee of Steve Jobs, during his long tenure as Apple’s No. 2, was how to create a “reality distortion field.” Or so it would appear after watching Cook, now Apple’s chief executive, testify on Tuesday at a Senate hearing on the company’s tax avoidance schemes.
在长期担任苹果公司(Apple)二号人物的时间里，蒂姆·库克(Tim Cook)在史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)麾下明显学到了许多东西，其中有一点就是如何创造一个“现实扭曲力场”。周二，现在担任苹果首席执行官(CEO)的库克，在关于苹果避税手段的参议院听证会上作了证。在观看库克作证之后，或许就能明白这一点了。
Jobs was so persuasive that he could claim the sun was setting when it was actually rising, and everyone would nod in agreement. On Tuesday, despite the overwhelming evidence presented by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations that Apple engaged in dubious tax avoidance gimmicks, Cook claimed that Apple never resorted to tax gimmickry. Even though the company appears to pay about 10 percent of its pretax income in taxes — when the federal corporate tax rate is 35 percent — Cook said, “We pay all the taxes we owe — every single dollar.” He added that Apple had never shifted any of its American profits to an offshore tax haven when, in fact, that is basically what it has done, routing tens of billions in pretax profits to a shell corporation in Ireland that exists solely to avoid taxes in the United States. He even said that the low taxes Apple pays overseas is on the profits of its overseas sales. Not to put too fine a point on it, but this was a flat-out lie.
乔布斯拥有非凡的说服力，在太阳升起时，即使他宣称太阳正在落下，人们也都会点头同意。周二，尽管参议院常设调查委员会(Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations)拿出了压倒性的证据证明苹果曾经耍弄可疑的避税伎俩，库克却声称苹果从未采取过避税伎俩。美国的联邦企业税税率为35%，但苹果的税前收入中似乎却只有约10%用于缴税，尽管如此，库克还是说，“所有的应缴税款我们都缴了，一美元都不差。”他补充说，苹果从来没有把在美国获得的利润中的任何部分，转移到离岸避税港。但事实上，这基本上就是苹果已经做了的事情，它把数百亿美元的税前利润转移到爱尔兰的一家空壳公司，而这家空壳公司存在的唯一目的就是逃避美国的税收。他甚至说，苹果在海外缴纳的低税收是对其海外销售利润征收的。说得不客气一点，这是彻头彻尾的撒谎。
In other words, Cook spent Tuesday claiming that the sun was setting when it was actually rising, and, predictably, by the time the hearing had ended, most of the senators were agreeing with him. Senator John McCain, the committee’s ranking Republican, who had earlier labeled Apple “a tax avoider,” was soon swooning over Apple’s “incredible legacy.”
换句话说，库克在整个周二做的都是明明太阳在升起，却宣称太阳在落下。而且不出所料，听证会结束时，大多数参议员都同意了他的话。委员会的共和党资深成员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)早先曾把苹果称为“逃税者”，但很快就沉迷于苹果“难以置信的成就”。
Indeed, Apple’s fabulous success over the past decade or so — its creation of the iPads and iPhones that the world lusts over — is a large part of the reason it always gets the benefit of the doubt, whether deserved or not. Two years ago, when David Kocieniewski of The Times reported on General Electric’s tax-avoidance prowess, a storm of protest resulted. Last year, however, when Kocieniewski and Charles Duhigg wrote about Apple’s tax avoidance schemes as part of a series about the company that won a Pulitzer Prize, it was greeted mainly with yawns. Nobody really wants to hear anything bad about Apple.
确实，苹果在过去约十年时间内取得了丰功伟业，创造出了受到全世界青睐的iPad和iPhone。苹果常常会受到宽容的对待，无论这是不是它应得的，它取得的巨大成功就是一个重要的原因。两年前，《纽约时报》的戴维·科切涅夫斯基(David Kocieniewski)报道了通用电气(General Electric)的避税招数，引发了群情激昂的示威。然而在去年，科切涅夫斯基和查尔斯·杜西格(Charles Duhigg)共同报道了苹果的避税诡计，这篇报道是关于苹果公司的系列报道的一部分，该系列赢得了普利策奖(Pulitzer Prize)。但读者的反应大多是满不在乎地打个呵欠，没人真正想听关于苹果的坏消息。
Yet as documented both by The Times and the Senate subcommittee, Apple is as much an innovator in tax avoidance as it is in technology. Take, for instance, a scheme known as The Double Irish, which it largely invented and which many American companies have since replicated. This strategy, which was the primary focus of Tuesday’s hearing, involves setting up a shell subsidiary in an offshore tax haven — a k a Ireland — and transferring most of Apple’s intellectual property rights to the dummy subsidiary. The subsidiary, in turn, charges “royalties” that allows it to capture billions of dollars in what otherwise would be taxable profits in the United States. In Ireland, according to Apple, it pays an astonishing 2 percent in taxes, thanks to a deal it has with the government. (The Irish government denies giving Apple a special deal.)
然而，《纽约时报》和参议院有关委员会都认识到，苹果不仅是个科技创新公司，也是一个避税手法创新者。举例来说，一个被称为“爱尔兰双层面包”(The Double Irish)的体系就基本上是由苹果发明的，并被许多美国公司复制。这一策略曾是周二听证会中的主要焦点，涉及在一个离岸避税港（即爱尔兰）建立一家空壳公司，并把苹果的大部分知识产权转移到这家虚设的子公司。这家子公司接下来收取“专利使用费”，接收本应成为美国可纳税利润的数十亿美元。令人震惊的是，据苹果称，在爱尔兰，该公司的税率仅为2%，这得益于它与爱尔兰政府达成的一项协议。爱尔兰政府否认与苹果达成了特殊协议。
Here is another whopper from Mr. Cook on Tuesday. He said that his company not only doesn’t violate the letter of the law, that it doesn’t even violate the spirit. He may be right on the first part, but he is wrong on the second. As the subcommittee’s chairman, Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat, pointed out to me on Wednesday, one of the main goals of American corporate tax policy is to tax profits in the jurisdiction where they are produced.
库克还在周二语出惊人地说，他的公司不仅没有违背具体的法律条文，甚至也没有违背相关法律的精神。他的前半句话也许是对的，但后半句却错了。小组委员会主席、密歇根民主党参议员卡尔·莱文(Carl Levin)在周三向我指出了这一点，美国企业税政策的关键目标之一，就是向各辖区内产生的利润征税。
“That intellectual property and patents are the crown jewels of the company,” Levin said. “The Irish subsidiary had nothing to do with creating those crown jewels. It has no employees. It has no offices. Yet most of Apple’s profits are now offshore because they were able to utilize a shift of their intellectual property to a tax haven.”
莱文称，“这些知识产权和专利是该公司皇冠上的明珠。爱尔兰子公司与制造这些明珠没有任何关系。这家子公司没有员工，没有办公室。但是现在由于苹果公司能将知识产权转移到避税港，并对此加以利用，该公司大部分收入现在跑到了海外。”
(Question for the government of Ireland: Do you really want your country to be known as an offshore tax haven? Indeed, at a time when your citizens are dealing with the pain of an austerity program, how can you justify allowing Apple to pay virtually no taxes on a subsidiary established solely to avoid taxes in the United States? Just wondering.)
（对爱尔兰政府的提问：你真的想让你的国家被人们认为是海外避税港吗？尤其是在你们的公民忍受紧缩政策带来的痛苦时，你们该怎样解释，自己能允许苹果公司在基本不纳税的情况下，在海外成立一个纯粹为了在美国避税的子公司？这真是让人费解。）
Levin has proposed a bill that would curb the most blatant abuses of the tax code like the Double Irish. Part of the purpose of the hearing was to bring these abuses to light and generate bipartisan support for closing them. When I asked Levin whether he felt that the subcommittee had made a mistake in singling out Apple, given its Teflon reputation, he said no. “You can’t ignore the most blatant examples just because it is a popular company,” he said.
莱文提交了一个议案，它能遏止像爱尔兰双层面包这种明目张胆地利用税法漏洞的避税策略。这次听证会的部分意图在于揭露这些不良行为，并促成两党合作，封堵这些漏洞。我问莱文，鉴于苹果刀枪不入的名声，他是否觉得小组委员会把矛头指向苹果是错误的，他的回答是否定的。他说，“你不能因为这家公司受人喜爱，就忽略它那些最为明目张胆的行为。”
He’s right about that, of course. But that’s only obvious if you are willing to say the sun is rising when Apple says it is not.
他当然是正确的。但是只有当你愿意在苹果公司说太阳没有升起时承认太阳正在升起，才能感觉这是显而易见的。