THIS week Apple announced two new pieces of hardware, the iPhone 6 and a “smartwatch.” But as flashy as they are, neither item is as groundbreaking as a piece of software that will accompany them: a digital wallet, allowing users to eschew cash and credit cards for a quick swipe of their device at the register.
苹果本周发布了两款新的硬件设备：iPhone 6和SmartWatch智能手表。虽然硬件很华丽，但它们搭载的一款软件更具突破性：一个数字钱包，有了它，用户无需使用现金和信用卡，只需在收银台刷一刷设备即可付款。
Apple’s digital wallet, if widely adopted, could usher in a new era of ease and convenience. But the really exciting part is the fast-emerging future that it points toward, in which virtual assets of all sorts — traditional currencies, but also Bitcoin, airline miles, cellphone minutes — are interchangeable, opening up enormous purchasing power for consumers and creating tough challenges for governments around the world.
苹果公司的数字钱包如果获得广泛采用，可能将开启一个方便快捷的新时代。但真正令人兴奋的地方，是它指向了一个正在快速成型的未来，即各类虚拟资产——除传统货币外，还包括比特币、航空里程、手机通话时长——在将来是可以互换的，这既为消费者挖掘出了巨大购买力，也对各国政府提出了艰巨挑战。
Moving toward a digital wallet for dollars (or yen, or euros) is only a marginal step forward; throughout history, money’s value has been largely virtual anyway — think of stocks, or personal lines of credit. The real change is how the digital wallet technology facilitates the parallel emergence of virtual purchasing power, like loyalty points.
提供一个支持美元（或日元、欧元）的数字钱包，只是前进的一小步；纵观历史，金钱的价值反正大多也是虚拟的——想想股票，或者个人信用透支额度就知道了。真正的变化是，数字钱包技术如何促进同样方兴未艾的虚拟购买力的形成，比如忠诚度积分。
We don’t typically think of these as currency, because virtual money has traditionally been locked down, in the sense that its use was strictly limited: If you earned points from Amazon, only you could use them, and you could exchange them for dollars only within the Amazon marketplace. Meanwhile, up to now, the only currencies you could use everywhere in an economy were state-issued currencies, like the dollar.
我们通常不会把这些东西想成货币，因为虚拟货币历来都是锁定的，它的使用受到了严格限制：如果你从亚马逊赚到了积分，只有你能使用它们，而你也只能在亚马逊的市场上把它们换成美元。而且迄今为止，在一个经济体的任何地方都可以使用的唯一货币，都是由国家发行的，比如美元。
But that distinction is eroding: After all, the value of a currency lies in what you can buy with it, not in the fact that a government says it’s worth something. So if I want to buy a widget, and the only thing I can use to buy it is Widgetcash, then I am willing to trade dollars or euros or anything else for Widgetcash. When I buy something with Widgetcash, it doesn’t go through any bank.
但这种区别正在消失：毕竟，货币的价值在于你能用它买到什么，而不是在于政府宣称它有价值的说法。所以，如果我想买一个“东东”(widget)，而我只能用“东东币”(Widgetcash)来购买它，那么我愿意把美元、欧元或其他任何货币换成“东东币”。当我用“东东币”来购买东西的时候，它不会经过任何银行。
That’s why a digital wallet, loaded with your dollars, credit and loyalty points, is such a revolutionary technology — it makes those transfers and transactions seamless and safe.
装着你的美元、信用和忠诚积分的数字钱包，之所以是一项革命性的技术，原因就在于此——它可以无缝、安全地实现这些转账和交易。
Imagine you want to buy a shirt at Target. Your digital wallet can pay for it with dollars, your Target points or any other form of purchasing power that Target accepts. Wave your phone at the cash register, and the shirt is yours.
想象一下，你想在塔吉特(Target)商店买一件衬衫。你的数字钱包可以用美元、塔吉特积分，以及塔吉特商店接受的其他支付形式付款。那么你只需在收银台刷一下手机，衬衫就买到手了。
That’s the sort of thing that the current generation of digital wallets already promises; the only obstacle is adoption by retailers. But that won’t be an obstacle for long. Frictionless exchange is a killer app. Some companies might lose value in their loyalty programs, but others will find enormous value in issuing their own currencies for advertising or data-tracking purposes, or even just because the creation of a successful virtual currency or digital wallet lets companies make money by making money. That’s certainly Apple’s bet.
这些事，当前的数字钱包就已经可以做到了；唯一的阻碍就是零售商采用率。但是，这个阻碍不会长期存在。无障碍兑换是一个杀手级应用。有些公司的忠诚度计划可能会失去价值；但另外一些公司会收获巨大的价值，这些公司为了做广告或追踪数据，发行了自己的货币，或者仅仅是因为觉得，推出一种成功的虚拟货币或数字钱包，可以让公司通过造钱来赚钱，于是就这么做了。苹果的赌注当然就押在这上面。
The revolution is what comes next: an exchange that connects and trades these different stores of value to find the most cost-efficient one to use, both within your wallet and between wallet users, worldwide. Let’s say you want to buy an audiobook from Best Buy. It costs $16, or 1,000 My Best Buy points, or M.B.B.P.s. Your wallet contains several hundred dollars and 200 Best Buy points. The wallet software automatically determines that, at the current exchange rate between M.B.B.P.s and dollars, it is better to buy using the points.
它的革命性在于下一步：把这些不同公司的虚拟货币连接起来，进行交易，找出最合算的付款方式，加以兑换，无论这种兑换是在你自己的钱包里，还是在全球各地的电子钱包用户之间。比方说，你想购买百思买(Best Buy)的一本有声读物。它的价格是16美元，或1000个百思买积分(MBBP)。你的钱包中有几百美元，还有200个百思买积分。钱包软件根据MBBP与美元之间的即期汇率，自动得出使用MBBP付款更合算的决定。
But then let’s say you only have 50 M.B.B.P.s. The wallet system searches its clients and finds someone — call her Hannah — with enough M.B.B.P.s for the transaction. It buys the audiobook with her points and sends it to you, and sends Hannah dollars from your account.
但是，假设你只有50个MBBP，钱包系统会搜索客户端，发现某人——假设她叫汉娜(Hannah)——有足够的MBBP完成这笔交易。那么它就用汉娜的MBBP购买的这本有声读物，把它发送给你，并把美元从你的帐户转到汉娜那里。
Following Bitcoin’s protocol, the wallet software broadcasts these transactions to the network, and every wallet in the world updates the M.B.B.P.-to-dollar exchange rate.
通过比特币协议，钱包软件把这些交易发送到网络，于是全球各地的每一个电子钱包都会更新MBBP对美元的汇率。
The idea is that you can buy anything, with anything. The wallet will find the best deal and execute it. In so doing, it will ignore the historical and cultural differences between dollars, points, coins and virtual property. It’s all bits anyway.
其理念是，你可以用任何东西买到任何东西。电子钱包会找到最好的交易方式并执行交易。在这个过程中，它会忽略美元、积分、硬币和虚拟财产之间在历史和文化上的差异。它们无非都是些数字。
This sort of digital wallet raises difficult problems for regulators, who rely on institutional intermediaries like banks as the point for monitoring transactions. But a digital wallet can be a phone app; just like the cash in your pocket, it doesn’t require accounts with any intermediary. A wallet app can be written by anyone, downloaded by anyone and secured and maintained by everyone. In this huge river of money, there is no narrow channel from which the state can divert flow into its own fields.
这种数字钱包给监管者提出了一些难题，因为监管需要银行等中间机构来作为数据监测点。而数字钱包可能只是个手机应用；就像你的口袋里的现金，不需要帐户与任何中间机构。编写、下载、维护数字钱包和保障其安全的，可能会是任何人。在这条庞大的金钱洪流中，没有狭窄的水道让国家把钱流引入自己的领地。