SAN FRANCISCO — The handset market is so brutally competitive that Apple, the most successful smartphone maker, is preparing to step up its game this week by offering two new iPhones instead of one.
旧金山——手机市场竞争异常惨烈，因此，最成功的智能手机制造商苹果(Apple)提升竞争强度，准备于本周推出两款新iPhone，而非一款。
At an event on Tuesday at its Cupertino, Calif., headquarters, the company is set to unveil for customers worldwide a new iPhone with a faster processor, along with another model that will be sold at a lower cost.
苹果准备于本周二在其位于加州库比提诺的总部举行发布会，向全世界的消费者发布一款有着更快处理器的新iPhone，以及一款售价较低的iPhone。
The company’s profit growth has slowed in response to a saturated handset market in America and parts of Europe. Many people already own a smartphone and are not upgrading to new devices as often as before.
由于美国及欧洲部分地区的手机市场已经饱和，苹果的利润增长放缓。很多人已经有了智能手机，而且不会再像以前那样，经常更换新设备。
A lower-cost smartphone could allow Apple to expand into overseas markets — especially China, where the iPhone has been highly desired among many consumers but is just out of reach because of its price.
售价较低的智能手机能够帮助苹果向海外市场拓展——特别是中国。在中国，很多消费者十分渴望拥有iPhone，但由于价格较高，这些消费者无力购买。
“A cheaper model will open up the market significantly for Apple,” said Chetan Sharma, an independent telecom analyst who consults for phone carriers.
为移动运营商提供咨询服务的电信产业独立分析师切旦·夏尔马(Chetan Sharma)说，“廉价款手机将为苹果大幅开拓市场。”
Apple declined to comment on the new products. But analysts expect the higher-priced model to be an improvement over the current iPhone, including a faster processor and better camera flash, as well as a fingerprint sensor for security.
苹果拒绝就新产品置评。但分析人士预期，价格较高的新款手机是现有iPhone的改良版，新款手机将配备更快的处理器、更好的相机闪光灯，以及用于安全保障的指纹传感器。
The second iPhone is expected to be a cheaper version of the soon-to-be-outdated iPhone 5, coming in a variety of colors, with a plastic case instead of aluminum. Analysts expect the full price of the lower-cost iPhone to be $300 to $400, positioning it as a midtier product.
第二款iPhone预计会是即将过时的iPhone 5的廉价版本，该款机型会有多种颜色，采用塑料外壳，而非铝制外壳。分析人士估计，廉价版新款iPhone的全价在300美元（约合1830元人民币）至400美元之间，其定位为中端产品。
Apple has been enormously successful, with the iPhone driving most of its revenue. In the second quarter, the company took 53 percent of the profit in the global smartphone market, with Samsung Electronics, which uses Google Android software to run its smartphones, taking the rest, according to a survey by Canaccord Genuity, an investment bank.
苹果公司一直非常成功，iPhone为该公司带来大部分收益。根据投资银行加通贝祥(Canaccord Genuity)的调查，二季度苹果的利润在全球智能手机市场总利润中占据53%，其余的份额属于三星电子(Samsung Electronics)。三星电子利用谷歌(Google)的Android软件作为其智能手机的操作系统。
But both Apple and Samsung face a common enemy: the tide of manufacturers that produce dirt-cheap Android phones. While they make all the profits, Apple and Samsung have seen their combined share of the worldwide smartphone market drop to 43 percent in the second quarter from 49 percent a year earlier. The makers of cheaper phones — including Huawei, Yulong and ZTE of China, and Micromax and Karbonn of India — are raking in sales in emerging markets where high-end smartphones are not popular.
但苹果和三星都面临一个共同的敌人：一些生产超级廉价Android手机的制造商。尽管苹果和三星赚到了最多的利润，但二者全球智能手机市场的份额总和，却在二季度下降到了43%，而去年同期，两家公司的份额总和为49%。包括中国华为、宇龙、中兴，以及印度Micromax、Karbonn在内的廉价手机制造商在新兴市场创造了可观的销售额，高端智能手机在此类市场中并不受欢迎。
“We’ve had several indications from the handset market that vendors are in real trouble,” said Tero Kuittinen, an analyst for Alekstra, a mobile diagnostics firm. “The biggest threat to all the companies seems to be the low-end Androids.”
“手机市场中的一些迹象表明，厂商真的遇到了一些麻烦，”移动产业咨询公司Alekstra的分析师泰罗·库伊蒂宁(Tero Kuittinen)说。“这些公司面临的最大威胁似乎是低端的Android手机。”
In terms of sales, smartphones surpassed traditional flip phones this year. There are a few markets remaining where traditional cellphones are still outselling the smartphone, including India, Brazil and Russia. Data from Qualcomm suggests that Latin America, China and India are adding substantially higher numbers of smartphone subscriptions than North America, Japan, Korea and Europe.
今年，智能手机的销售额超过了传统的翻盖式手机。在包括印度、巴西和俄罗斯在内的一些市场中，传统手机的销售额仍然比智能手机高。高通公司(Qualcomm)的数据显示，目前在拉丁美洲、中国和印度，智能手机用户总数的增长速度远高于北美、日本、韩国及欧洲市场。
China, with its huge population, is an attractive target for Apple. But Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said recently in a call with investors that the company was puzzled about why sales of its products were struggling in China. Sales there fell 4 percent in the second quarter compared with the same quarter last year. And Apple’s sales in Hong Kong were down about 20 percent.
对于苹果来说，人口庞大的中国是一个极富吸引力的目标。但苹果首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)近期与投资者通话时表示，苹果产品在中国遭遇了挫折，他们对此感到非常困惑。二季度，苹果在中国境内的销售额同比下降4%，在香港的销售额则下降了大约20%。
A cheaper iPhone could help it gain traction in China, depending on its cost.
取决于价格的高低，廉价版iPhone也许能够帮助苹果增强在中国市场的号召力。
Analysts said the introduction of the cheaper iPhone would probably coincide with an expected partnership deal with China Mobile, which has about 700 million subscribers — about seven times as many as Verizon Wireless. Capturing even a small percentage of China Mobile customers would translate to tens of millions more iPhone sales.
分析人士表示，廉价版iPhone的推出，可能会与苹果和中国移动按照预期开展合作的时间重叠。中国移动有大约7亿名用户，总数是威瑞森无线(Verizon Wireless)的7倍。哪怕只是赢得一小部分中国移动的客户，就能转化为数千万的新增iPhone销量。
Apple already sells its phones in China through China Telecom, a major network operator, but it slipped into sixth place among smartphone makers there in the second quarter, with a share of only 4.8 percent, according to Canalys, a research firm. Over all, China is the largest smartphone market in the world, accounting for one-third of worldwide shipments of smartphones in the second quarter; the United States is in second place, accounting for about 14 percent of shipments in the same period, according to Canalys.
苹果在中国已经在通过主要运营商中国电信销售手机了。然而调研公司Canalys的数据显示，二季度，苹果在中国的市场份额仅为4.8%，在智能手机制造商中下滑到第六位。Canalys数据显示，中国总体上是全球最大的智能手机市场，约占二季度全球智能手机出货量的三分之一，美国位居第二，占同一时期全球出货量的14%。
Despite Apple’s efforts to keep its plans secret, clues about the new iPhones leaked out. China Telecom briefly posted a message last week on a blog platform soliciting early orders for the new devices. It identified the high-end model as the iPhone 5S, and the lower-cost one as the iPhone 5C. The post was later removed. A spokesman for China Telecom declined to comment, citing nondisclosure agreements.
尽管苹果努力对其计划进行保密，但新款iPhone的蛛丝马迹还是泄露了出来。中国电信上周在一个博客平台上发布了一则只存在了很短时间的消息，招揽客户预订新款设备。那则消息中将高端型号称为iPhone 5S，廉价版则称为iPhone 5C。这则消息随后被删除了。中国电信的一位发言人以有保密协议为由拒绝发表评论。
In Japan, where Apple is much stronger but faces a renewed challenge from domestic smartphone makers like Sony, the company has struck a deal to sell the iPhone with the country’s biggest mobile phone carrier, NTT Docomo, two people briefed on the situation said Friday. Docomo has 60 million customers, but it has been losing market share to Japan’s other two main mobile operators, SoftBank and KDDI, which operates under the brand name au. Both have been marketing Apple’s phones aggressively, giving Apple a 40 percent share of smartphone sales in the first quarter, according to IDC, a research firm.
在日本，苹果的市场号召力很强，但仍然面对着索尼(Sony)等日本国内智能手机制造商发起的新挑战。两名知情人士周五透露，苹果已与日本最大的移动电话运营商NTT都科摩(NTT Docomo)达成了销售iPhone的协议。都科摩拥有6000万客户，但另外两家大型移动运营商软银(SoftBank)和KDDI一直在吞食它的市场份额。KDDI以au的品牌经营着移动网络。这两家运营商都在大力推销苹果的手机，研究公司IDC的数据显示，这让苹果在一季度智能手机销售额中占据了40%。
Historically, so that it can protect the quality of its products as well as profit margins, Apple has refused to make cheaper products just to get more customers. Therefore, a lower-cost iPhone would most likely be positioned as a midtier product, similar to the approach Apple took with the iPad Mini. At $330, the iPad Mini is cheaper than the bigger, $500 iPad, but not as affordable as the smaller Android tablets offered by Google and Amazon, which cost from $160 to $230.
历史上，苹果一直拒绝单纯为了招揽更多顾客而制造更廉价的产品，从而保障产品质量和利润率。所以廉价版iPhone有很大的可能会被定位为中端产品，就像苹果对iPad Mini采取的做法一样。iPad Mini定价330美元，低于500美元的iPad，但价格仍然没有低于谷歌(Google)和亚马逊(Amazon)推出的尺寸更小的Android平板电脑，后两者定价在160美元至230美元之间。
Realistically, a lower-cost iPhone will be $300 to $400 at full price, Mr. Kuittinen, the Alekstra analyst, said, significantly less than the current iPhone, which costs $650. Overseas, many phone carriers charge full price because they do not subsidize the upfront cost of a smartphone the way carriers do in the United States. And while a lower-cost iPhone would drive up Apple’s revenue, it would probably not be a blockbuster hit in economically disadvantaged markets, Mr. Kuittinen said.
Alekstra分析师库伊蒂宁表示，实际一点，廉价版iPhone的全价预计会在300美元至400美元之间，显著低于定价650美元的现有款iPhone。在海外，很多运营商会收取手机的全价，因为它们不像美国的运营商一样，为顾客补贴购置iPhone的费用。而且库伊蒂宁表示，尽管廉价版iPhone能够提高苹果的营收，但可能并不会在经济状况较差的市场成为畅销机型。
“Nobody is saying Apple should have a $130 iPhone,” he said, “but if they price this iPhone 5C at $400 or above, it’s just not going to be effective in countries like India, China or even Brazil.”
“没有人说苹果应当推出130美元的iPhone，”他说，“但如果苹果给iPhone 5C的定价是400美元甚至更高，那么在印度、中国甚至巴西等国家就不会有效果。”
Still, even if the price is fairly high, a cheaper iPhone should appeal to a subset of people in developing countries who flaunt gadgets as status symbols, like jewelry. People who were on the fence about buying an iPhone might pay a little extra just to be able to show off, Mr. Sharma, the telecom analyst, said. “Consumers are willing to shell out money to own a brand,” he said. “I think a $300 price gives them a chance to own it.”
然而即使定价较高，廉价版iPhone也应当能在发展中国家吸引一部分顾客，他们会像佩戴首饰一样炫耀电子设备。电信分析师夏尔马说，还没有下决心要买iPhone的人，或许会为了能够炫耀而多付一点钱。“消费者有意愿多花钱买个名牌，”他说。“我想300美元的价格能给他们一个拥有名牌的机会。”