Many consumers have developed an appetite for smartphones with larger screens, and expectations are growing that Apple will try to satisfy them this year.
很多顾客都喜欢上了屏幕更大的智能手机，人们愈发期待苹果(Apple)会在今年满足顾客的需求。
Paul Semenza, an analyst for the research firm NPD DisplaySearch, said he believed that Apple would ship two bigger iPhones this year: one that measures 4.7 inches diagonally and the other at 5.5 inches. Screens on the latest model, the 5S, are 4 inches.
调研公司NPD DisplaySearch的分析师保罗·西门扎(Paul Semenza)表示，他认为苹果会在今年推出两款屏幕较大的手机：一款为4.7英寸，另一款为5.5英寸。最新款苹果手机5S的屏幕为4英寸。
“Our understanding is that Apple is working on both of the screen sizes for the new iPhone, with shipments likely in the second half of this year,” Mr. Semenza said. His predictions, he said, were based largely on information from several sources in the supply chain.
西门扎说，“我们认为苹果正在研发这两种屏幕的新iPhone，可能会在今年下半年推出。”他表示，他这个预测的主要根据是供应链中一些消息人士提供的信息。
Two weeks ago, Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst for KGI Securities, said in a research note that he expected Apple to release iPhones with those same measurements. (Last year, Mr. Kuo accurately predicted that the new iPhone would include a fingerprint sensor.)
两周前，KGI证券(KGI Securities)的分析师郭明池(Ming-Chi Kuo)在一份研究纪要中写道，他预计苹果将推出上述两种尺寸的iPhone。（去年，郭明池准确地预测到了新iPhone将附有指纹传感器）。
This month, Reuters reported that Apple suppliers would be producing bigger screens, as did Bloomberg News in November.
本月，路透社(Reuters)报道称，苹果的供应商将生产更大的屏幕。去年11月，彭博新闻社(Bloomberg News)也报道了这一消息。
There is never a shortage of rumors about what Apple is up to, since the company operates in extreme secrecy. But it is relatively rare for so many people to say they have heard precisely the same thing, down to the inch.
有关苹果将推出什么产品的传言不断，因为该公司总是在极其保密的情况下运营。不过，这么多人都说自己听到了有关屏幕大小的相同消息，这样的情况相对少见。
At least some Apple employees are aware that there is a big opportunity in selling bigger phones. During the patent lawsuit between Apple and Samsung that is now in court, Samsung lawyers found a research note compiled by a member of Apple’s sales team expressing concern about the growth in sales of smartphones with larger screens.
至少有部分苹果雇员已经意识到，销售更大屏幕的手机是一个重大的机遇。法院正在审理苹果和三星(Samsung)的专利诉讼，其间三星的律师找到了一名苹果销售团队成员汇编的一份研究报告，报告对大屏幕智能手机的销量增长表示了担忧。
Demand for big-screen phones is clearly strong — especially in China, the largest smartphone market in the world. IDC, the research firm, estimates that at least 20 percent of all smartphones shipped there were five inches or larger. It predicts that that number will balloon to 50 percent by 2017.
大屏幕手机的需求无疑相当强劲——尤其是在中国，中国是全球规模最大的智能手机市场。据调研公司国际数据公司(IDC)估计，在中国出售的智能手机中，至少有20%的屏幕达到了五英寸以上。该公司预测，到2017年，这一比例将激增至50%。
If the analysts are correct, introducing two larger iPhones this year would be a big change for Apple’s iPhone portfolio, the company’s biggest source of revenue. Not only would it be increasing the size of its standard iPhone, but it would possibly be selling the handset in three different sizes: small, medium and large. Apple started selling two different new models of the iPhone only last year, with the introduction of the iPhone 5S and 5C.
如果这些分析人士没有说错，苹果真的在今年推出了两款更大屏的iPhone手机，那将会是苹果iPhone系列产品的一个重大变革，而iPhone系列是苹果最大的收入来源。这样的话，苹果不仅会增加标准iPhone的屏幕尺寸，还可能会销售三款屏幕尺寸相异的机器，即小屏、中屏和大屏iPhone。苹果去年才开始同时推出两个不同的新款，即iPhone 5S和5C。
“Apple typically has multiple projects ongoing, to test out different concepts, technologies, suppliers and costs,” Mr. Semenza said. “So it is certainly possible that they would not release both of these designs in 2014.”
西门扎说，“苹果的典型做法是同时推进多个项目，以便彻底检验不同的理念、技术、供应商和成本。因此，他们确实有可能不在2014年同时发布前述两款设计。”
But he added: “However, we are hearing about a lot of activity around both of these, so for now we are expecting both.”
但他补充说，“尽管如此，我们听说了大量和这两款机型相关的动作，所以，目前我们认为，这两款机型都会在今年上市。”
Apple declined to comment.
苹果拒绝置评。