In what would be the biggest change to its music strategy in years, Apple is pressing ahead with a sweeping overhaul of its digital music services that would allow the company to compete directly with streaming upstarts like Spotify.
苹果公司正在对其数字音乐服务进行全面改版，这可能会是该公司数年来在音乐策略上做出的最大调整，而且会让它和Spotify这样的流媒体新贵展开正面较量。
Almost a year after agreeing to pay $3 billion for Beats, the maker of hip headphones and a streaming music service, Apple is working with Beats engineers and executives to introduce its own subscription streaming service. The company is also planning an enhanced iTunes Radio that may be tailored to listeners in regional markets, and, if Apple gets what it wants, more splashy new albums that will be on iTunes before they are available anywhere else, according to people briefed on the company's plans.
之前，苹果同意支付30亿美元（约合人民币180亿元）来收购时尚耳机制造商和流媒体音乐服务Beats，差不多一年时间过去了，现在苹果正在与Beats的工程师和管理人员合作，致力于推出自己的流媒体包月服务。了解苹果计划内情的人表示，该公司还计划增进iTunes电台的功能，在不同的区域市场为听众提供度身定制的服务，而且，如果苹果能如愿以偿，就会有更多引人瞩目的新专辑率先登陆iTunes，然后才会出现在其他地方。
In a sign of how important Beats is in reshaping Apple's digital music, the company has made a musician a point man for overhauling the iPhone's music app to include the streaming music service, as opposed to an engineer. Trent Reznor, the Nine Inch Nails frontman who was the chief creative officer for Beats, is playing a major role in redesigning the music app, according to two Apple employees familiar with the product, who spoke on the condition they not be named because the plans are private.
在重塑苹果数字音乐的过程中，Beats发挥了怎样的重要性，可以从一件事中看出来：苹果让一名音乐艺人，而不是一名工程师担当主力，负责iPhone音乐应用的改版，为其增加流媒体音乐功能。九寸钉(Nine Inch Nails)乐队的主唱特伦特·雷泽诺(Trent Reznor)是Beats的首席创意官，据两名熟悉这个音乐应用的苹果员工说，他在该应用的重新设计中扮演了主要角色；这两名员工不愿具名，因为这不是一个公开的计划。
Perhaps most telling for Apple is what its new streaming service will not have: a lower price than rival services.
也许最能体现苹果状况的，是这个新的流媒体服务不会提供的东西：低于竞争对手的价格。
According to several music executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the talks are private, Apple recently tried but failed to persuade record labels to agree to lower licensing costs that would have let Apple sell subscriptions to its streaming service for $8 a month — a discount from the $10 that has become standard for services like Spotify, Rhapsody and Rdio.
据几位唱片业高管说，苹果最近尝试说服唱片公司降低授权费，但未能成功，因此苹果无法以每月8美元价格提供流媒体包月服务，对于像Spotify、Rhapsody和Rdio这样的服务来说，10美元已成为一个标准价格。这些高管不愿具名，因为这些谈判是私下进行的。
Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, said that Apple's apparent struggle over lowering the pricing of its music service now was a result of being late to the streaming game.
桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)的分析师托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)表示，说，苹果公司难以降低其音乐服务的定价，是它较晚进入流媒体领域的后果。
“They're used to being a shaper rather than a responder,” Sacconaghi said. “This is one of the few times where Apple is playing catch-up and not necessarily coming from a position of strength.”
“他们已经习惯了当开创者，而不是跟风者，”萨科纳吉说。“苹果追赶别家公司，而且并不处在有利位置的情况非常少见，这是其中一次。”
Exactly how Apple will match Spotify is unclear. Music executives say they have not been shown a prototype of the new streaming service, nor been told much detail about it.
目前还不清楚苹果究竟将如何与Spotify抗衡。唱片业高管表示，苹果还没有向他们展示这个新的流媒体服务的样品，也没有告诉他们相关细节。