Just about any way you slice it, 763 million customers is a huge potential pie.
不管你以任何方式切分，7.63亿用户都是一块巨大的增长潜力馅饼。
On Sunday, Apple and China Mobile announced a deal to bring the iPhone to the Chinese carrier, the largest wireless network in the world, on Jan. 17.
周日，苹果(Apple)和中国移动通信集团公司（后文简称中国移动）宣布达成协议，苹果将于明年1月17日推出支持中国移动网络的iPhone手机，后者是全球规模最大的无线网络运营商。
An agreement with China Mobile could, at least initially, give Apple a big lift into the vast Chinese market, analysts say, increasing its worldwide sales.
分析师说，至少是就初期而言，和中国移动的协议能大幅提升苹果在巨大的中国市场的份额，增加它在全球的销售。
“China is an extremely important market for Apple and our partnership with China Mobile presents us the opportunity to bring iPhone to the customers of the world’s largest network,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said in a statement.
苹果首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)在一份声明中表示，“中国是苹果公司极为重要的市场，与中国移动的合作让我们有机会将 iPhone 带给全球最大网络的用户。”
But the company will face many challenges in capturing the Chinese market.
不过，在夺取中国市场的过程中，苹果将面临许多挑战。
While Apple’s smartphones are dominant in the United States and a major player in Europe, the company has struggled to gain much traction in China, where phones using Google’s Android operating system dominate for several reasons, particularly price.
苹果的智能手机在美国一家独大，在欧洲也是重要的竞争者，然而，在中国获得更多上升动力的过程中，苹果一直步履蹒跚。由于几个原因，尤其是价格原因，使用谷歌(Google)Android操作系统的手机在中国处于主导地位。
In China, some smartphone makers, like Huawei, Coolpad and ZTE, offer Android phones for less than $100, while Apple lists the iPhone 5C at $739, and the 5S at $871. Apple said that it would reveal pricing of the iPhones for China Mobile customers on a later date.
在中国，华为、酷派和中兴等智能手机制造商供应的一些Android手机售价还不到100美元（约合607元人民币），而苹果的iPhone 5C售价为739美元，5S的售价为871美元。苹果说，公司稍后才会发布中国移动版iPhone的定价。
Apple is the No. 5 smartphone player in the country, behind Samsung and the Chinese handset makers Huawei, Lenovo and Yulong.
苹果是中国第五大智能手机供应商，位列三星(Samsung)和中国本土手机制造商华为、联想和宇龙公司之后。
The slow sales of the iPhone in China are reflected in the overall shrinkage of the company’s share of the global smartphone market — to 12.1 percent in the third quarter, down from 14.3 percent in the same period a year ago, according to the market research firm Gartner. Meanwhile, Lenovo, the No. 3 player, which sells the vast majority of its smartphones in China, had 5.1 percent of the global market in the third quarter, from 4.1 percent a year ago. Samsung’s global share remained flat at 32.1 percent.
iPhone在中国销售缓慢，后果也体现于苹果在全球智能手机市场所占份额的整体缩减。根据市场研究公司高德纳(Gartner)的数据，今年第三季度，苹果在全球市场的份额，从去年同期的14.3%降到了今年的12.1%。与此同时，今年第三季度，排名第三的供应商联想的全球市场份额从去年的4.1%上升到了今年的5.1%。联想的绝大部分智能手机都是在中国销售的。三星的全球份额维持在32.1%，与去年持平。
Still, analysts were optimistic that Apple would sell a lot of phones through China Mobile, though they offered wide-ranging estimates for how many more. William V. Power, an analyst for Robert W. Baird, said Apple could sell as many as 30 million more iPhones in 2014, while Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein research, offered a more conservative estimate of 15 million iPhones.
尽管如此，分析师们依然对苹果通过中国移动销出大量手机的前景感到乐观，不过，对于能多卖出多少iPhone，他们的估计多寡不一。贝雅公司(Robert W. Baird)分析师威廉·V·鲍尔(William V. Power)说，苹果能在2014年销售多达3000万台iPhone，桑福德·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)的托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)则给出了一个更加保守的估计，多卖1500万台。
Apple sold about 23 million iPhones in China over the last year, Mr. Sacconaghi said.
萨克纳吉说，去年，苹果在中国卖出了约2300万台iPhone。
Apple has long pursued a deal with China Mobile. The carrier showed signs of warming up to Apple only after it began losing customers to competitors that offered the iPhone. The second- and third-largest carriers in the country, China Unicom and China Telecom, have had longstanding arrangements with Apple, but they are much smaller than China Mobile.
长期以来，苹果一直在谋求与中国移动达成协议。然而，直到用户开始被提供iPhone的竞争对手抢走之后，这家运营商才开始流露出向苹果示好的迹象。中国第二大运营商中国联通集团公司和第三大运营商中国电信集团公司早就和苹果签订了协议，不过，它们的规模要比中国移动小得多。
In addition to cost, another reason Android phones have proved so popular in China is that, unlike in the rest of the world, there is a wider variety of mobile applications for Android phones than for iPhones. While the Google Play store is not officially available in China, Android users can turn to dozens of alternative app stores offering licensed and pirated applications.
事实已经证明，除了价格之外，Android手机在中国大行其道还有一个原因，那就是中国与世界其他地方不同，面向Android手机的移动应用比面向iPhone的应用多。中国的Android用户无法通过官方渠道使用Google Play商店，但却可以转而使用其他数十家应用商店，这些商店会提供获得许可的应用和盗版应用。
Analysts expect the vast majority of smartphone growth in China to occur at the lower end of the market, as the phones become more widely available to lower-income consumers in smaller cities and rural areas. Those consumers will presumably be more attracted to the lower-cost Android phones.
分析人士预计，中国智能手机领域的绝大部分增长将出现在较为低端的市场，因为智能手机在小城市和农村地区的低收入消费者当中已经更加普及。可想而知，这些消费者更青睐价格低廉的Android手机。
Also, in China fewer handsets are subsidized by mobile carriers than in the United States, Europe or Japan. More than two-thirds of Chinese phones are sold unsubsidized by third-party retailers, often over the Internet.
此外，在中国，获得移动运营商补贴的手机也比美国、欧洲和日本少。中国市场上超过三分之二的手机是第三方零售商以无补贴价格售出的，销售渠道常常是互联网。
Chinese operators are reluctant to subsidize phones too heavily in a market where many customers are happy with smartphones that cost under $100. Both China Unicom and China Telecom have been cutting back on subsidies.
由于市场上的众多消费者满足于售价低于100美元的手机，中国运营商不愿对手机提供过高补贴。中国联通和中国电信都已经开始削减补贴。
Apple surprised some analysts in September with its aggressive pricing of the iPhone 5C, which has fewer features and costs less than the 5S, though the two were introduced on the same day. The company had been expected to try to appeal to Chinese customers with the lower price, but the 5C was introduced at a level that remains high in China.
9月，苹果对5C的大胆定价出乎一些分析人士的意料。5C的功能比5S少，价格也比5S低，两款手机却在同一天推出。外界原本估计苹果公司会尝试用更低的价格来吸引中国消费者，然而，苹果发布5C的价格对中国来说依然很高。
Analysts say Apple may have to cut the price further, or introduce another, less expensive model if it hopes to broaden its appeal in China.
分析人士表示，要想增强在中国的吸引力，苹果可能不得不进一步降价，或者推出一款更便宜的手机。
The cost-consciousness of Chinese consumers extends to their choice of mobile networks. Only 176 million China Mobile customers, less than a quarter of the total, subscribe to the company’s high-speed wireless data service, using 3G technology.
中国消费者的价格算盘扩展到了对移动网络的选择上。中国移动只有1.76亿用户购买了该公司使用3G技术的高速无线数据服务，在用户总量中所占比例不足四分之一。
Apple and China Mobile announced their partnership a few days after China Mobile introduced an upgrade to a newer, faster system — 4G — for parts of its network. The existing 3G subscribers, not the overall customer base, will provide the main target audience for the new phones and services.
在苹果和中国移动宣布双方达成合作的几天前，中国移动将自己的部分网络升级成了更新、更快的4G系统。4G手机和服务的主要目标受众是现有的3G用户，而不是该公司的全体用户。
The deal with China Mobile has been rumored for a while, and potential customers for the iPhone are already lining up. Among them is Wang Xiaocong, who works in the marketing department of a law firm in Beijing. Ms. Wang, 31, said she had a BlackBerry for work and a Samsung smartphone for personal use, but was looking for something different.
苹果与中国移动达成协议一事已经流传了一段时间，想买iPhone的消费者已经在翘首以待。在北京一家律所的市场部工作的王晓聪（音译）就是其中之一。31岁的王女士说，自己公事用黑莓(BlackBerry)，私事用三星(Samsung)智能手机，但还想买一部不一样的手机。
“I am not a big fan of high-tech products,” Ms. Wang said. “But I would love to have an iPhone next time, with the 4G network, maybe next year. It looks very fashionable.”
“我不是高科技产品的铁杆粉丝，”她说，“但我下次想买部能用4G的iPhone，也许明年买吧。iPhone看上去很时尚。”