SAN FRANCISCO — Apple is famous for setting trends.
旧金山——苹果公司(Apple)一向以引领潮流闻名。
In China, though, Apple has found success by following one.
然而在中国，苹果却因为跟随潮流而获得了成功。
For years, Apple rivals like Samsung offered large-screen smartphones. Although the bigger phones sold well in China, Apple held off on releasing a similar model, and the country remained a weak spot. But Apple introduced its own version last September, and the sales spigot is wide open.
数年来，三星(Samsung)等苹果的竞争对手一直在提供大屏幕手机。而尽管较大的手机在中国卖得很好，苹果却一直坚持较小的机型，所以中国始终是一个薄弱环节。不过，苹果已于去年9月推出了自己的大屏幕手机，于是销量开始大幅度增加。
The company on Tuesday reported $16.1 billion in revenue from “greater China” — which includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan — in its first fiscal quarter, up 70 percent from the same period a year ago. Canalys, a research firm, estimates that Apple is now the No. 1 smartphone maker in China.
公司周二报告称，“大中华区”——其中包括中国大陆、香港和台湾——第一财季的收入为161亿美元（约合1005亿元人民币），同比增长70%。据调查公司Canalys估算，苹果现在是中国排名第一的智能手机制造商。
The success in China helped push Apple to a blockbuster first quarter, increasing overall profit to $18 billion and revenue to $74.6 billion. In the same quarter a year ago, the company had profit of $13.1 billion and revenue of $57.6 billion.
在中国所取得的成功使苹果在第一季度一鸣惊人，整体利润增至180亿美元，收入增至746亿美元。一年前，公司同一季度的利润为131亿美元，收入为576亿美元。
The results beat analysts’ average estimates of $67.7 billion in revenue, according to a poll by Thomson Reuters.
根据汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)的民意调查，这些结果超过了分析人士对总收入677亿美元的平均估值。
Apple said it sold 74.5 million iPhones in the quarter. Financial analysts had predicted that Apple would sell 62 million to 71.5 million.
苹果表示，公司本季度售出了7450万部iPhone。金融分析师曾预计，苹果的销量将在6200万部到7150万部之间。
Not too long ago, sales of Apple products in China were slipping. Last October, Apple was the No. 6 smartphone maker in China, trailing its Asian rivals Huawei, Lenovo, Samsung, Xiaomi and Yulong, according to Canalys.
不久前，苹果产品在中国的销量出现下滑。Canalys表示，去年10月，苹果在中国的智能手机制造商中排名第六，排在它前面的亚洲竞争对手包括华为、联想、三星、小米和宇龙。
For Apple, gaining a foothold in overseas markets like China has become increasingly vital. Its growth has slowed over the last few years as the smartphone market has become saturated in the United States and parts of Europe.
对于苹果来说，在中国等海外市场占据一席之地变得越来越重要。随着美国及部分欧洲国家的智能手机市场出现饱和，苹果公司的收入增长在过去几年中有所放缓。
Over the last couple of years, Apple has made a series of moves to compete more aggressively in China. In late 2013, it reached an important deal to sell iPhones with China Mobile, the largest wireless network in the world, with more than 800 million subscribers. The company also continues to scale up its operations in greater China and has plans to open 25 new stores over the next two years, adding to the 15 stores it currently operates in the region.
过去几年中，苹果采取了一系列举措，在中国更加积极地参与竞争。2013年末，苹果与中国移动达成销售iPhone的重要协议，这家有着世界上最大无线网络的公司拥有逾8亿用户。苹果还在继续扩大在大中华区的经营规模，并计划在未来两年开设25家新店，苹果目前在大中华区共拥有15家店。
In 2013, Apple also released the iPhone 5C, a lower-cost version of the smartphone that analysts thought would help increase its growth in China. But the latest numbers suggest that consumers in China, in large part, wanted bigger iPhones, not cheaper ones.
苹果还在2013年推出了iPhone 5C，分析人士认为这款价格较低的智能手机会在一定程度上提高苹果在中国的销售增速。但最新的数据显示，中国消费者在很大程度上想要更大的iPhone，而不是更便宜的。