The news on Tuesday was not particularly good for Apple: revenue was flat, profit was lower, and even the sales of iPads were down.
周二的消息对苹果公司(Apple)来说不怎么好：收入平平，利润降低，就连iPad的销售额都下降了。
Investors did not seem to mind, at least in the short term, sending the company’s shares about 4 percent higher in after-hours trading. Strong iPhone sales helped beat the expectations of Wall Street.
投资者似乎并不介意，至少短期内是如此。在收盘后的交易中，他们把苹果股价推高了约4%。iPhone的强劲销势超出了华尔街的预期。
But Apple’s earnings report on Tuesday highlighted some of the challenges the company faces as it continues to expand overseas. The company sells plenty of devices in the United States, but sales have lagged in some larger overseas markets, which are crucial for its future growth.
但是，周二苹果的收入报告凸显了公司在继续海外扩张时面对的一些挑战。公司在美国的销售量很大，但却在一些更大的海外市场上落后了，那些市场对其未来增长至关重要。
China has been especially problematic for the company. Overall sales of Apple devices in China fell 4 percent compared with the same quarter last year. And in Hong Kong, Apple’s sales were down about 20 percent — a trend that Timothy D. Cook, the company’s chief executive, found puzzling.
中国对苹果来说尤其是个问题。与去年同季度相比，苹果设备在中国的整体销售额下降了4%。在香港，苹果销售量下降约20%，这种趋势令公司首席执行官蒂姆西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)感到迷惑。
“Hong Kong is an international shopping haven,” Mr. Cook said on the company’s earnings call in response to an analyst’s questions about Apple’s performance in China. “We saw some dramatic downturn there. It’s not totally clear exactly why that occurred.”
在公司的盈利电话会议上，库克在回应一名分析人士对苹果中国业绩的质疑时说，“香港是个世界性的购物天堂。我们在香港的销售额巨幅下跌。还不完全清楚为什么会出现这种现象。”
Gaining a foothold in foreign markets is becoming increasingly vital for Apple. Its growth has slowed in the most recent quarters, as its devices have largely saturated the United States and some top markets in Europe.
对苹果来说，在外国市场站住脚是件越来越关键的事情。在最近的几个季度，随着苹果设备在美国及一些欧洲顶级市场基本饱和，公司的增长已经放缓。
The tepid growth has led many investors to clamor for a new blockbuster product to restart growth and give Apple’s sagging stock a much-needed lift. But no such product has been announced. For several quarters now, Mr. Cook has suggested that the company has plenty of new products in the pipeline, and that some could reach the public this fall or next year.
看到这种平庸的增长表现，许多投资者呼吁苹果推出新的热销产品，重启增长，给苹果低迷的股市表现注入其急需的活力。但是，苹果尚未宣布这种产品。几个季度以来，库克一直说公司预备着足够的新产品，其中的一些将会在今年秋天或明年面世。
The company could decide to introduce a cheaper iPhone to spur growth in China and other foreign markets, or even a so-called smartwatch that would compete in a brand-new market of wearable computers. Those ideas have long been discussed and considered at the company.
公司可以决定发布较便宜的iPhone来促进在中国及其他海外市场的增长，甚至还可以发布所谓的智能表，在可佩戴电脑的崭新市场上竞争。公司一直都在讨论并评估这些主意。
“Competition is heating up,” said Laurence Isaac Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research, which has clients that own Apple shares. “They need to come up with some game-changers pretty soon.”
甲骨文投资研究公司(Oracle Investment Research)的首席市场策略师劳伦斯·伊萨克·巴尔特(Laurence Isaac Balter)说，“竞争愈演愈烈。他们需要迅速推出一些能够扭转局面的产品。”
The third quarter is typically a slow time for Apple. That is because the company traditionally introduces a new iPhone model in the fall, so in the summer many consumers are waiting for the next model to be released.
苹果在第三季度的增长尤其缓慢。这是因为公司传统上会在秋季推出iPhone新机型，所以，许多消费者在夏季都会观望，等待下一个机型的发布。
But sales of iPhones were strong. The company sold 31.2 million iPhones, up from 26 million in the same period a year ago. It was the most Apple had ever sold in a third quarter.
但iPhone的销售依然强劲。该公司售出了3120万部iPhone，高于去年同期的2600万部。这是苹果在第三季度的最高销量。
Those sales helped generate a net income in the third quarter of $6.9 billion, or $7.47 a share. But that was down from $8.8 billion in the same quarter a year earlier. The company said revenue was roughly flat at $35.3 billion, from $35 billion a year ago.
这一销售量在第三季度带来了69亿美元的净利润，或每股7.47美元。但这低于去年同期的88亿美元。该公司表示，收入为353亿美元，与去年同期的350亿美元基本持平。
The net income beat the expectations of Wall Street analysts. They had expected $7.32 a share and revenue of $35 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters.
净收入超过了华尔街分析师的预期。根据汤森路透(Thomson Reuters)的一份调查，他们曾预计每股收入7.32美元，总收入350亿美元。
Analysts closely watch Apple’s gross profit margins. For the third quarter, Apple’s gross margin was 36.9 percent, down from 42.8 percent a year ago. In April, Apple warned that its gross margin would continue to fall in the fiscal third quarter to 36 to 37 percent.
分析师密切关注苹果的毛利率。在第三季度，苹果的毛利率为36.9%，低于去年同期的42.8%。4月，苹果曾经警告，其毛利率将在第三财季继续下滑到36%至37%。
Strong sales of Apple’s cheaper iPads and older iPhones are putting the squeeze on the margins. Apple did not disclose how many of each phone or tablet model it sold. But it said that while its iPhone 5 was the best seller, sales of the previous generations, the iPhone 4 and iPhone 4S, were also strong. Late last year, Apple added the cheaper iPad Mini to its lineup.
苹果低价款iPad和老款iPhone的强劲销售对利润率造成了压力。苹果公司并未透露每一款电话或平板电脑都售出了多少。但该公司表示，尽管iPhone 5的销量最好，前两代产品iPhone 4和iPhone 4S也卖得不错。去年底，苹果把较为便宜的iPad Mini加入了自己的产品阵容。
Even with the Mini, Apple’s iPad sales were a disappointment, coming in at 14.6 million for the quarter, missing analyst estimates for 16.7 million. Mac sales were also down slightly, at 3.8 million, from 4 million a year ago.
即便算上Mini，苹果iPad的销量也令人失望。这一季度的销量是1460万部，未能达到分析师预测的1670万部。Mac电脑也从去年同期的400万部下降到了380万部。
Investors concerned about Apple’s growth have punished the company’s stock. The stock price has fallen by roughly 40 percent from its peak of $705.07 in September. Shares closed at $418.99 on Tuesday, down 1.7 percent, before gaining ground in after-hours trading.
投资者对于苹果增长的担忧已经打击了该公司的股票。与去年9月的705.07美元峰值相比，苹果的股价已经下跌了约40%。周二股价收于418.99美元，下跌了1.7%，不过在盘后交易中有所回升。
Apple may face a challenge in China, but the tech industry’s other two giants, Microsoft and Google, have their struggles, too. Microsoft posted a profit of almost $5 billion for the quarter, missing expectations of analysts, thanks in part to disappointing sales of its Surface tablet and an industrywide decline in sales of personal computers. Google also posted a profit, of $3.23 billion, but still missed analysts’ expectations as its desktop search business continued to slow and ad prices shrank.
苹果或许在中国遇到了挑战，但科技行业的另外两大巨头，微软(Microsoft)和谷歌(Google)，也处于挣扎之中。微软公布的本季利润将近50亿美元，未能达到分析师的预测，部分是因为Surface平板电脑令人失望的销售业绩，以及业内个人电脑销售的整体下滑。谷歌公布了32.3亿美元的利润，仍未达到分析师的预期，原因是其桌面搜索业务持续放缓，广告价格下滑。
Mr. Cook told investors to stay optimistic about Apple in China. About half a million people there are creating apps for iOS, Apple’s mobile software system for iPhones and iPads, he said. Sales of the iPad in greater China were up 8 percent and up 37 percent in mainland China, he said.
库克告诉投资者，应当对苹果在中国的前景保持乐观态度。他说，大约有50万人在为苹果iPhone和iPad的移动软件系统iOS开发应用。他还说，iPad的销售量在大中华区增长了8%，在中国大陆增长了37%。
“Over the arc of time, China is a huge opportunity for Apple,” Mr. Cook said, “so I don’t get discouraged over a 90-day kind of cycle with economic factors.”
“在时间的轨迹中，中国是苹果公司的巨大机遇，”库克说，“所以我并不会因为各种经济因素决定的90天周期而气馁。”