SAN FRANCISCO — Apple’s iPhone is still defying a long-held rule of the cellphone business: What goes up must come down.
旧金山——苹果(Apple)的iPhone仍然拒绝遵从手机行业长期以来的惯例：凡事有起必有落。
The defiance of that rule was never more clear than on Monday, when Apple reported sales of 51 million iPhones during the last quarter, the most it has sold in any quarter, up from 47.8 million in the same period last year.
周一，这种形势尤为明显，苹果报告称该公司去年第四季度售出了5100万部iPhone，超过以往任何季度的销量，前年第四季度的销量为4780万部。
Sales of the iPhone shrank slightly in North America, partly because Apple had trouble making enough new phones to keep up with consumer demand. But strong demand in other parts of the world — like China, Latin America and Russia — kept the overall sales trajectory headed up.
iPhone在北美地区的销量略有减少，这在一定程度上是因为苹果未能生产出足够多的新手机，满足消费者的需求。但中国、拉丁美洲和俄罗斯等地区的强劲需求，使总体销量仍能保持增长。
“One of the most important things for us in the iPhone business was to do really well in emerging markets,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said on the company’s financial earnings call. “We had the best quarter ever from that respect.”
“对于我们的iPhone业务来说，极为重要一件事是，要在新兴市场表现得非常好，”苹果首席执行官蒂莫西·D·库克(Timothy D. Cook)在该公司发布财报的电话会议中说。“从这一方面看，这是最棒的一个季度。”
Since it was introduced seven years ago, the iPhone has maintained enough sales momentum to knock off former phone giants and bat away some newcomers. BlackBerry, Ericsson, HTC, Motorola and Nokia enjoyed stints near the top of the phone market before plummeting. Now, even phone sales by Samsung — the latest powerful Apple challenger — are beginning to slow.
自七年前面市以来，iPhone一直保持着良好的销售势头，击败了过去手机行业的巨头，也甩掉了一些新公司。黑莓(BlackBerry)、爱立信(Ericsson)、HTC、摩托罗拉(Motorola)和诺基亚(Nokia)都曾一度占据手机市场销售榜的前列，但之后都大幅落后。而现在，三星(Samsung)作为苹果最新的有力竞争者，销售也开始放缓。
Apple saved its biggest moves in 2013 for the end of the year, surely helping sales in the last quarter, which ended Dec. 28. For the first time, the company introduced two new iPhone models instead of one. It also released two new iPads and added NTT DoCoMo, the largest cellphone carrier in Japan, as a partner.
苹果公司把最重大的动作留到了2013年后期，这肯定有助于提振第四季度（截至12月28日）的销售。该公司首次推出两款新iPhone，而不是一款。该公司还发布了两款新iPad，还与日本最大的手机运营商NTT都科摩(NTT Docomo)开展了合作。
Those efforts translated into sales of 26 million iPads, up from 22.9 million last year. In addition, Apple sold 4.8 million Mac computers, up from 4.1 million last year. Over all, the company reported a profit of $13.1 billion, which was flat compared with a year ago though still the envy of the technology industry. Revenue increased to $57.6 billion, up about 6 percent.
这些举措使苹果售出了2600万台iPad，而去年的销量为2290万台。除此之外，苹果Mac电脑的销量达到480万台，高于去年的410万台。总体而言，该公司报告盈利131亿美元（约合792亿元人民币），与去年同期持平，不过该公司依然是技术行业艳羡的对象。苹果收入增至576亿美元，上涨6%。
Despite the strong sales, investors have such high expectations for the company that they were unimpressed by the results, and the company’s stock fell about 7.8 percent, to $507.55, in after-hours trading. Shares in the company have gained nearly 25 percent in the last six months.
尽管销售非常强劲，但投资者对苹果期望甚高，这样的成绩并没有让他们满意，苹果股价盘后下跌7.8%，跌至507.55美元。苹果股票在过去六个月中上扬近25%。
Wall Street analysts had estimated Apple would sell about 55 million iPhones, and they view the holiday shopping season as an important measurement in determining whether Apple is experiencing healthy growth or if it has plateaued.
华尔街分析人士曾预估，苹果将售出大约5500万部iPhone，他们将假日购物季的表现视作一个重要的参考，判断苹果的增长是否健康，还是已经达到稳定时期。
“The key area of disappointment was iPhone units,” said Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, referring in particular to markets like the United States and Western Europe. “The worry is going to be, is the market increasingly mature? Many investors have been worried that essentially all the wealthy people already have high-end smartphones.”
桑福德·C·伯恩斯坦公司(Sanford C. Bernstein)的财务分析师托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)说，“让人失望的主要是iPhone业务。”他还提到，美国和西欧等市场的趋势尤其让人失望。“令人担心的是，市场正在日益成熟吗？很多投资者一直担心，基本上所有富人都已经拥有了高端智能手机。”
Mr. Cook said one reason for the dip in sales in North America was that some carriers extended the period of time that customers have to wait until they are eligible to upgrade to a new phone for a discounted price. In the past, the waiting period was 20 months, but carriers including AT&T and Verizon extended that to 24 months last year.
库克表示，iPhone在北美销量下降的一个原因是，一些运营商延长了消费者以优惠价格购买新手机所要等待的时间。过去，消费者需要等20个月，但去年，包括AT&T和Verizon在内的运营商将等待时间延长到了24个月。
Still, Mr. Cook said he thought there was room for more iPhone sales in North America and Western Europe, where Apple has long found success.
不过，库克表示，他认为iPhone销售在北美和西欧仍有增长空间。长期以来，苹果在这些市场都很成功。
“I do believe that category of product can grow in those markets,” he said.
库克说，“我真的相信，这个产品类别在这些市场的销售仍会增长。”
The company has put substantial effort into emerging markets, in part to keep up with Samsung’s growth in those areas. At one point in 2012, Samsung’s older flagship phone, the Galaxy S III, surpassed the iPhone in sales. The strength of Galaxy phones is fading, however. Despite the marketing blitz that Samsung put behind its flagship smartphones — the Galaxy S4 and the Note 3 — sales were weaker than expected over the holiday season.
苹果公司在新兴市场做出了大量努力，部分目的是为了赶上三星在这些地区的增长。2012年，三星之前的旗舰手机Galaxy S III曾一度超过了iPhone的销量。然而，Galaxy系列手机的市场竞争力在消退。尽管三星为其旗舰智能手机Galaxy S4和Note 3开展了猛烈的营销攻势，但在假日期间，这些手机的销售比预期的要弱。
For Apple, much of the focus in emerging markets has been on the colorful and less-expensive iPhone 5C. But Apple said that its more-expensive phone, the iPhone 5S, has heavily outsold the iPhone 5C. The company said the mix of demand for the two products was different than it had expected.
对苹果来说，在新兴市场的销售重点是五颜六色、价格相对便宜的iPhone 5C。然而苹果称，价位较高的iPhone 5S，销量远高于iPhone 5C。对两款手机的需求比例和此前预期的不同。
Mr. Cook said people were particularly intrigued by the fingerprint ID sensor on the 5S, leading to more demand of that phone than expected, but Mr. Sacconaghi said Apple’s comments told only half the story.
库克说，人们对5S带有的指纹识别传感器尤其感兴趣，使得市场对5S的需求超出预期，但萨克纳吉则表示，苹果的评论也只是故事的一个方面。
“The issue was more, I think, that their mix was different because they really didn’t sell many 5Cs. Not so much that 5S demand was extraordinary,” Mr. Sacconaghi said.
萨克纳吉说，“我觉得，这两款产品需求比例不同于预期，更多是因为苹果真的没有卖出去太多5C，而不是5S的市场需求高得惊人。”
But over all, iPhone sales appear poised to grow. This month, Apple finally began selling iPhones through China Mobile, the biggest carrier in China. Analysts estimate that the partnership could add 15 million to 30 million more iPhone sales this year.
但总体而言，苹果产品的销量似乎一定会增长。本周，苹果终于开始通过中国最大的运营商中国移动销售iPhone。分析人士估计，此次合作会使iPhone今年的销量提高1500万到3000万台。
Mr. Cook said that last week was Apple’s best week for iPhone activations in China since adding China Mobile as a partner. He noted that China Mobile was selling iPhones in 16 cities, but that number should grow to 300 by the end of the year.
库克说，自从和中国移动联手以来，上周成了苹果iPhone在中国的激活率最高的一周。他提到，中国移动现在正在16个城市销售iPhone，但这一数字到年底将增长至300个。
“China Mobile has more subscribers than anyone in the world,” Mr. Cook said. “I do see it as a watershed moment for Apple.”
“中国移动的用户数量高于世界上其他任何一家运营商，”库克说。“我认为现在苹果正面临着一个转折机遇。”
Jan Dawson, a telecom analyst for Jackdaw Research, said Apple’s earnings highlighted that its growth was diversifying beyond the iPhone.
Jackdaw研究公司的电信行业分析师简·道森(Jan Dawson)称，苹果的收入构成显示出，它的增长不再仅仅来自iPhone，而是呈现出多元化的趋势。
“It grew iPhone revenues by a decent amount year on year — but not astonishingly — but growth from the iPad, Mac and iTunes lines together was greater,” Mr. Dawson said. “This is good, because Apple has been very dependent on the iPhone for overall growth, and that growth will inevitably slow down over the coming years.”
“苹果的iPhone销售收入同比出现相当幅度的增长，不过增幅算不上惊人，而iPad、Mac、iTunes产品线总体实现的收入增长更为强劲，”道森说。“这很好，因为苹果一直依赖iPhone来整体收入，如果这种情况不改变，接下来几年，苹果的收入增长便会不可避免地慢下来。”