When the iPhone 5 was released in September with the new Lightning connection port, all those docks and accessories that longtime Apple customers had been collecting for years were suddenly obsolete. But Lightning-compatible accessories have been trickling in more slowly than the typical flood of Apple accessories that comes after a new iPhone release. Why?
去年9月iPhone 5上市的时候，它带有的Lightning接头让苹果公司(Apple)的老客户多年来搜集的各种底座和配件突然失效。新iPhone上市后，一般会有潮水般的苹果配件涌现，但与Lightning兼容的配件却推出得不紧不慢。为什么呢？
One challenge, according to a person briefed on Apple's plans who was not approved to discuss them publicly, is that the iPhone 5 is more fundamentally different from previous versions of the device than new models usually are  -- introducing a different overall size and shape as well as an engineering change. At the same time, with Lightning, Apple has made it harder for companies to avoid working with its own licensing program. Both of these factors have slowed the production of accessories.
尽管不具公开讨论的资格，但根据苹果计划的一名知情人士的说法，困难之一是，比起一般的更新，iPhone 5与之前的版本存在更根本性的差别，因为它首次采用了不同的外部尺寸、形状，以及工程方法。与此同时，在Lightning上，苹果让其他公司更难以绕过其许可计划。两种因素都放慢了配件生产的速度。
Mophie, an accessory maker, shared some insight into Lightning and the overall process of making an Apple accessory. (This week it introduced the Helium, its first iPhone 5 case with a backup battery.) When a hardware maker signs up with Apple's MFi Program, for companies that make accessories for Apple products, it orders a Lightning connector component from Apple to use in designing the accessory. The connectors have serial numbers for each accessory maker, and they contain authentication chips that communicate with the phones. When the company submits its accessory to Apple for testing, Apple can recognize the serial number.
配件生产商Mophie揭示了一些与Lightning接头和制造苹果配件的整体过程相关的内幕。（本周，Mophie推出了公司首款带外接电池的iPhone 5保护壳Helium。）苹果的MFi许可计划(MFi Program)针对为其产品生产配件的公司，当硬件生产商加入该计划后，将从苹果获取Lightning连接器组件，以便在配件的设计过程中使用。连接器上有各配件生产商专属的序列号，内含与手机传输信息的认证芯片。当生产商将配件提交测试时，苹果将能识别其序列号。
"If you took this apart and put it in another product and Apple got a hold of it, they'd be able to see it's from Mophie's batch of Lightning connectors," said Ross Howe, vice president of marketing for Mophie.
Mophie负责市场营销的副总裁罗斯·豪(Ross Howe)说，“如果把它拆开，放到其他产品上，苹果将能掌握情况，知道是从Mophie这批Lightning连接器里获得的。”
The chip inside the Lightning connector can be reverse engineered -- copied by another company -- but it probably would not work as well as one that came from Apple, Mr. Howe said. Apple could also theoretically issue software updates that would disable Lightning products that did not use its chips, he said.
豪称，连接器内的芯片可以被拆开反向制造，也就是为其他公司仿制，但是很可能不及苹果芯片的工作表现。他还说，理论上，苹果还可以通过软件更新让没有使用自家芯片的Lightning产品失效。
What's the benefit for Apple? The proprietary chip makes it more difficult for accessory makers to produce cheap knockoff products that are compatible with Lightning, which could potentially tarnish the iPhone brand. Also, it pushes accessory makers to pay Apple the licensing fees to be part of the MFi program.
这对苹果有什么好处？专属芯片可以增加配件生产商炮制出与Lightning兼容的劣质仿冒产品的难度，而这些产品可能破坏iPhone品牌的声誉。而且，苹果还能迫使配件生产商向自己缴纳授权费来加入MFi计划。