SAN FRANCISCO — Steven P. Jobs minced no words when talking about Android, Google’s mobile operating system, which he saw as too similar to the iPhone’s. He told his biographer, Walter Isaacson, that Android was “a stolen product” and said, “I’m willing to go thermonuclear war on this.”
旧金山——当年谈到谷歌(Google)的移动操作系统Android，史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)并没有拐弯抹角，他表示，这个系统与iPhone的太过相似。他曾告诉自己的传记作者沃尔特·艾萨克森(Walter Isaacson)，Android是“一个偷来的产品”，并说道，“我愿意为此打一场热核战争。”
But so far Apple has not gone to war with Google, at least not directly. Instead, Apple has sued the cellphone makers that use Android in their products — like Samsung, which was hit with a claim of more than $1 billion in damages on Friday when a jury found that it had infringed on some of Apple’s patents.
但到目前为止，苹果公司(Apple)还没有与谷歌开战，至少是没有直接开战。苹果掉转枪口，开始起诉产品中装有Android系统的手机制造商，比如三星公司(Samsung)。上周五，一个陪审团认定三星侵犯了苹果的一些专利，要求三星支付超过10亿美元的赔偿金。
Now, though, the war is drawing closer to Google’s doorstep. Google is increasingly making its own hardware, thanks in part to its acquisition of Motorola Mobility, or playing an integral part in designing it, as it did with the Nexus 7 tablet. And the jury in the Samsung trial found that features built into Android, and not just features added by Samsung, violated Apple patents — potentially forcing Google to adjust its software.
然而，战火正在向谷歌公司逼近。谷歌自己制造硬件的情况越来越多，这在一定程度上归功于对摩托罗拉移动公司(Motorola Mobility)的收购。此外，谷歌也日益主导产品的设计，Nexus 7 平板电脑就是如此。负责审讯三星的陪审团发现，不仅仅是三星手机的特色应用，Android本身的一些特色应用也侵犯了苹果的专利，这有可能迫使谷歌调整软件设置。
“Apple’s desire is to be able to put Google on that hot seat, but they need a path to actually be able to do that, and so far all they’ve seen is a way to go after actual hardware makers,” said Charles S. Golvin, a mobile industry analyst at Forrester.
弗雷斯特(Forrester)研究机构移动产业分析师查尔斯·S·戈尔万(Charles S. Golvin)说，“苹果希望能够将谷歌置于尴尬的境地，但他们需要一条达到目的的途径。到目前为止，他们所能想到的方法就是向那些硬件制造商发难。”
Google could end up more squarely in Apple’s sights if it doesn’t take precautions, Mr. Golvin said. “What it means for the Android folks is a very careful review, back to the drawing board, including a close examination of Apple’s stable of patents to weed out anything that looks risky in terms of violating the Apple portfolio,” he said.
戈尔万表示，如果不小心提防的话，谷歌还会更加直接地落入苹果的打击范围。他说，“这就意味着开发Android的人需要从初始阶段就仔细检查自己的产品，还要对苹果拥有的大量专利进行仔细检查，以剔除任何有可能侵犯苹果专利的应用。”
Apple and Microsoft have both sued phone makers in large part because it is far easier to calculate the damages those companies could owe from the sale of patent-infringing phones.
苹果和微软(Microsoft)都对手机制造商提起了诉讼，主要原因是这些公司应当为销售侵权手机支付的赔偿金数目很容易计算。
Unlike Apple, which makes both iPhone software and hardware, Google makes Android software but leaves the manufacturing of phones and the customization of specific Android features to other companies, like Samsung, HTC and Motorola. (Though Google now owns Motorola, it has said it will work no more closely with Motorola than with the other hardware companies when it comes to making Android phones.)
苹果公司自己生产iPhone的软件和硬件。与苹果不同，谷歌自己制作Android软件，但却让三星、HTC和摩托罗拉等公司负责生产手机、提供Android特色应用的定制服务。（虽然谷歌现在拥有摩托罗拉，但谷歌表示，在生产Android手机方面，它与摩托罗拉的合作关系并不会比其他硬件公司密切。）
And Google gives the Android software to manufacturers at no charge. Instead, it makes money on Android indirectly, by selling mobile ads, along with apps and media in its Google Play store.
谷歌为这些制造商免费提供Android软件，同时又在Google Play商店中出售移动广告、 应用程序和媒介，间接地靠Android盈利。
It would be difficult for Apple to prove that Google is benefiting financially from patent infringement, or that Google, and not the hardware manufacturers, is directly responsible for potential damages caused to Apple, said Robert P. Merges, faculty director of the Center for Law and Technology at the University of California, Berkeley. That could change as Google makes or designs more products itself.
加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)法律与技术中心(Center for Law and Technology)主任罗伯特·P·梅吉斯(Robert P. Merges)说，苹果要证明谷歌通过专利侵权获取了商业利益，抑或证明对苹果所面临的潜在损失负有直接责任的是谷歌而非硬件制造商，将会比较困难。如果谷歌自己制造或设计出更多的产品，情况可能会发生变化。
If Apple really went after Google, Mr. Merges said, it could end up hurting its own products. The iPhone includes a Google search bar in its Safari browser, and Google offers some popular apps, like one for Gmail, in Apple’s App Store. A direct attack could compel Google to remove such features from the iPhone and make it a less attractive product to consumers, he said.
梅吉斯表示，如果苹果真的对谷歌穷追猛打，最终可能会对自己的产品造成损害。iPhone的Safari浏览器上装有谷歌搜索框，此外，苹果的应用商店(App Store)里也有很多谷歌提供的流行应用软件，包括一款用于登录谷歌邮箱(Gmail)的软件。他还说，直接的攻击可能会迫使谷歌将类似的特色应用从iPhone中移除，这样一来，iPhone对顾客的吸引力就会降低。
That kind of relationship has not stopped Apple in the past, though. Samsung, for instance, is a major supplier to Apple of iPhone parts like chips and screens.
然而，在过去，这样的关系并未让苹果善罢甘休。举例来说，遭到起诉的三星就是苹果的一个主要供应商，为iPhone提供芯片和屏幕之类的零部件。
Google has also foreshadowed that it has grounds to countersue Apple, much as companies like Samsung have done. Google has patents on several important iPhone features like maps and search, for instance. “Even though you are at war with these guys on one front, you want to try to maintain strategic peace in other areas if you can,” Mr. Merges said.
谷歌暗示，它也有理由反诉苹果，就像三星等其他公司那样。谷歌拥有iPhone上好几项重要特色应用的专利权，比如谷歌地图和搜索功能。梅吉斯说，“即使你在某条战线上和这些家伙开了战，如果可能的话，你还是会想努力在其他领域保持战略和平。”
Still, peace between Google and Apple is looking shakier by the day.
然而， 谷歌与苹果之间的和平局面似乎日渐难以维持。
Lawyers from Google have been working closely with those from hardware manufacturers, including Samsung, to defend against Apple, according to two people with knowledge of Google’s legal tactics.
两名了解谷歌法律策略的消息人士表示，谷歌的律师一直在与三星等硬件制造商的律师紧密合作，以便应对苹果的指控。
Several features that Apple said Samsung’s devices had infringed are built into Android, like pinching the screen or tapping to zoom. Another, the rubber band effect, when the screen bounces to indicate reaching the top or bottom, was part of Android until recently. According to a person briefed on Google’s Android design plans, Google removed the effect for design reasons, not in response to patent litigation.
三星手机中几项遭受苹果侵权指控的特色应用也被植入了Android操作系统，其中包括手指缩放功能。另外还有画面回弹的效果，即当滚动轴到达顶端或底部时，画面就会回弹。直到最近，Android操作系统一直拥有这项功能。一名获悉谷歌Android设计计划的人士称，谷歌将这个效果移除是基于设计上的考虑，而不是对专利诉讼的回应。