RENO, Nev. — Apple, the world’s most profitable technology company, doesn’t design iPhones here. It doesn’t run AppleCare customer service from this city. And it doesn’t manufacture MacBooks or iPads anywhere nearby.
雷诺，内华达州——作为全球盈利最多的高科技公司，苹果公司并不在内华达州的雷诺市(Reno)设计iPhone，也没有把自己的售后服务中心设在这个城市。除此之外，MacBook或者iPad的生产基地也与雷诺市相距遥远。
Yet, with a handful of employees in a small office here in Reno, Apple has done something central to its corporate strategy: it has avoided millions of dollars in taxes in California and 20 other states.
然而，通过安排在雷诺市的一处小办公室和寥寥几个员工，苹果公司却实现了企业战略当中的一个核心目标：躲掉了加州和其他20个州课征的成百上千万美元税赋。
Apple’s headquarters are in Cupertino, Calif. By putting an office in Reno, just 200 miles away, to collect and invest the company’s profits, Apple sidesteps state income taxes on some of those gains.
苹果公司的总部位于加州的库比提诺(Cupertino)。通过在区区200英里之外的雷诺市设立一个负责接收并投放公司利润的分支机构，苹果公司成功地规避了一部分收益的所得税。
California’s corporate tax rate is 8.84 percent. Nevada’s? Zero.
加州的企业所得税税率是8.84%，内华达州则是零。
Setting up an office in Reno is just one of many legal methods Apple uses to reduce its worldwide tax bill by billions of dollars each year. As it has in Nevada, Apple has created subsidiaries in low-tax places like Ireland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and the British Virgin Islands — some little more than a letterbox or an anonymous office — that help cut the taxes it pays around the world.
每一年，苹果公司都会通过许多合法手段来减少来自世界各地的税单，避税数额达数十亿美元之巨，在雷诺市设立分支机构不过是其中之一而已。除了内华达之外，苹果公司还在爱尔兰、荷兰、卢森堡以及英属维尔京群岛(British Virgin Islands)等低税收地区设立了分支机构，其中一些不过是一个信箱或是一间匿名办公室，目的同样是减少公司在世界各地的税负。
Almost every major corporation tries to minimize its taxes, of course. For Apple, the savings are especially alluring because the company’s profits are so high. Wall Street analysts predict Apple could earn up to $45.6 billion in its current fiscal year — which would be a record for any American business.
当然，几乎所有的大公司都在尽量减少税负。苹果公司赚到了如此之高的利润，自然会觉得减少税负是一件格外诱人的事情。华尔街的分析师们预计，苹果公司在这个财政年度的利润将会达到456亿美元，创下美国企业的历史纪录。
Apple serves as a window on how technology giants have taken advantage of tax codes written for an industrial age and ill suited to today’s digital economy. Some profits at companies like Apple, Google, Amazon, Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft derive not from physical goods but from royalties on intellectual property, like the patents on software that makes devices work. Other times, the products themselves are digital, like downloaded songs. It is much easier for businesses with royalties and digital products to move profits to low-tax countries than it is, say, for grocery stores or automakers. A downloaded application, unlike a car, can be sold from anywhere.
苹果公司好比一个窗口，我们可以从中窥见，各家高科技巨头是如何来钻税收政策的空子的。现行税收政策针对的是工业时代的状况，已经跟今天的数字经济不相匹配。像苹果、谷歌(Google)、亚马逊(Amazon)、惠普(Hewlett-Packard)和微软(Microsoft)这样的公司并不完全靠有形商品盈利，部分的利润来自驱动软件专利之类的知识产权所衍生的使用费。还有些时候，产品本身就是以数字形式存在的，比如下载的歌曲。拥有使用费收益和数字产品的企业很容易就可以把利润转往低税国家，条件比百货店和汽车厂之类的企业便利得多。跟汽车不同，下载软件在哪儿卖都可以。
The growing digital economy presents a conundrum for lawmakers overseeing corporate taxation: although technology is now one of the nation’s largest and most valued industries, many tech companies are among the least taxed, according to government and corporate data. Over the last two years, the 71 technology companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index — including Apple, Google, Yahoo and Dell — reported paying worldwide cash taxes at a rate that, on average, was a third less than other S.& P. companies’. (Cash taxes may include payments for multiple years.)
蓬勃发展的数字经济给监管企业税收的立法者们出了一道难题：政府及企业数据显示，尽管高科技产业已经成为美国规模最大、价值最高的产业之一，许多高科技公司却居于税负最轻的企业之列。过去两年当中，名列标准普尔500种股票指数的71家高科技公司——其中包括苹果、谷歌、雅虎（Yahoo）和戴尔（Dell）——报告的全球现金税负率比其他的标准普尔指数公司低三分之一。（现金税负可以包括一次性预缴的多年税费。）
Even among tech companies, Apple’s rates are low. And while the company has remade industries, ignited economic growth and delighted customers, it has also devised corporate strategies that take advantage of gaps in the tax code, according to former executives who helped create those strategies.
即便是在高科技公司当中，苹果的现金税负率也处于下游。一名曾参与制订公司税收策略的前苹果高管表示，在重塑多种产业、刺激经济增长、满足顾客胃口的同时，苹果公司也发明了各种旨在钻税收制度空子的企业战略。
Apple, for instance, was among the first tech companies to designate overseas salespeople in high-tax countries in a manner that allowed them to sell on behalf of low-tax subsidiaries on other continents, sidestepping income taxes, according to former executives. Apple was a pioneer of an accounting technique known as the “Double Irish With a Dutch Sandwich,” which reduces taxes by routing profits through Irish subsidiaries and the Netherlands and then to the Caribbean. Today, that tactic is used by hundreds of other corporations — some of which directly imitated Apple’s methods, say accountants at those companies.
举例来说，按照一些前苹果公司管理人员的说法，苹果是高科技公司当中的开先河者之一，率先为身处高税负国家的海外销售人员创制特殊称谓，允许他们代表位于其他大洲的低税负分支机构销售产品，借此规避所得税。为了减少税负，苹果公司还通过爱尔兰和荷兰的分支机构把利润转入加勒比海地区，由此成为了所谓“爱尔兰面包片荷兰夹心三明治”(Double Irish With a Dutch Sandwich)会计手段的先驱之一。时至今日，采用此种手段的公司已经达到了数百家。据此类公司的会计师所说，其中一些公司直接抄袭了苹果公司的做法。
Without such tactics, Apple’s federal tax bill in the United States most likely would have been $2.4 billion higher last year, according to a recent study by a former Treasury Department economist, Martin A. Sullivan. As it stands, the company paid cash taxes of $3.3 billion around the world on its reported profits of $34.2 billion last year, a tax rate of 9.8 percent. (Apple does not disclose what portion of those payments was in the United States, or what portion is assigned to previous or future years.)
前美国财政部经济学家马丁·沙利文(Martin A. Sullivan)新近完成的一项研究显示，不使用上述策略的话，苹果公司去年的美国联邦税单多半会增加24亿美元。去年的实际情况则是，苹果公司为342亿美元的报告利润在全球缴纳了总计33亿美元的现金税费，税率仅为9.8%。(苹果公司没有披露在美国缴纳的税费所占比例，也没有披露补缴或预缴税费所占的比例。）
By comparison, Wal-Mart last year paid worldwide cash taxes of $5.9 billion on its booked profits of $24.4 billion, a tax rate of 24 percent, which is about average for non-tech companies.
与此形成对比的是，沃尔玛(Wal-Mart)去年为244亿美元的会计利润在全球缴纳了59亿美元的现金税费，税率高达24%，大致是非高科技公司的平均水平。
Apple’s domestic tax bill has piqued particular curiosity among corporate tax experts because although the company is based in the United States, its profits — on paper, at least — are largely foreign. While Apple contracts out much of the manufacturing and assembly of its products to other companies overseas, the majority of Apple’s executives, product designers, marketers, employees, research and development, and retail stores are in the United States. Tax experts say it is therefore reasonable to expect that most of Apple’s profits would be American as well. The nation’s tax code is based on the concept that a company “earns” income where value is created, rather than where products are sold.
尤其令各位企业所得税专家侧目的是苹果公司的国内税单，原因是苹果公司总部位于美国，公司的大部分利润——至少是账面利润——却来自国外。苹果公司虽然把大部分的制造和组装业务包给了海外公司，大多数的管理人员、产品设计师、营销人员、普通员工、研发部门和零售店却在美国。税务专家们说，由此而来的合理推测便是，苹果公司的绝大部分利润也应该来自美国。美国税收制度的基础理念是，企业的收入是在创造价值的地点“赚得”的，并不是来自销出产品的地点。
However, Apple’s accountants have found legal ways to allocate about 70 percent of its profits overseas, where tax rates are often much lower, according to corporate filings.
然而，苹果公司的财务报告显示，该公司的会计师已经找到了各种各样的合法途径，可以将大约70%的利润转移到税率通常比美国低得多的海外地区。
Neither the government nor corporations make tax returns public, and a company’s taxable income often differs from the profits disclosed in annual reports. Companies report their cash outlays for income taxes in their annual Form 10-K, but it is impossible from those numbers to determine precisely how much, in total, corporations pay to governments. In Apple’s last annual disclosure, the company listed its worldwide taxes — which includes cash taxes paid as well as deferred taxes and other charges — at $8.3 billion, an effective tax rate of almost a quarter of profits.
政府和企业都不会公布报税表格，一家公司的应税收入也往往会因公司年报披露的利润而异。公司会在逐年填写的10-K表格当中披露用于缴纳所得税的现金支出，但这些数字并不能准确反映公司上缴政府的税费总额。根据苹果公司去年的财务报告，该公司在全球范围内的税费——包括实缴现金税负、递延税款及其他税费——总额为83亿美元，实际税率几乎达到了25%。
However, tax analysts and scholars said that figure most likely overstated how much the company would hand to governments because it included sums that might never be paid. “The information on 10-Ks is fiction for most companies,” said Kimberly Clausing, an economist at Reed College who specializes in multinational taxation. “But for tech companies it goes from fiction to farcical.”
然而，税务分析师和学者们指出，以上数字很有可能夸大了公司实缴税费的数字，因为它包含着一些永远也不会实际缴付的项目。里德学院(Reed College)的经济学家及跨国税收研究专家金伯利·克洛辛(Kimberly Clausing)说，“大多数公司填在10-K表格里的内容都是出于虚构。只不过，就高科技公司而言，这样的内容已经从虚构发展到了荒诞的地步。”
Apple, in a statement, said it “has conducted all of its business with the highest of ethical standards, complying with applicable laws and accounting rules.” It added, “We are incredibly proud of all of Apple’s contributions.”
苹果公司在一则声明中说，公司“所有的业务都遵循最高的企业道德标准，符合相关法律及会计准则的要求。”声明补充说，“我们为本公司的所有贡献感到无比自豪。”
Apple “pays an enormous amount of taxes, which help our local, state and federal governments,” the statement also said. “In the first half of fiscal year 2012, our U.S. operations have generated almost $5 billion in federal and state income taxes, including income taxes withheld on employee stock gains, making us among the top payers of U.S. income tax.”
声明还说，苹果公司“一直在缴纳数额庞大的税费，为地方政府、州政府及联邦政府提供了支持。在2012财政年度上半年当中，我们的美国业务已经衍生了将近50亿美元的联邦及州所得税，包括代扣的员工股票收益所得税。这样一来，我们已经跻身于美国顶尖所得税纳税大户的行列。”
The statement did not specify how it arrived at $5 billion, nor did it address the issue of deferred taxes, which the company may pay in future years or decide to defer indefinitely. The $5 billion figure appears to include taxes ultimately owed by Apple employees.
声明没有说明50亿的数字从何而来，也没有解释递延税款的问题——公司可以在未来数年当中缴付递延税款，也可以无限期地拖延下去。看样子，50亿这个数字包含了那些最终将由苹果员工承担的税负。
The sums paid by Apple and other tech corporations is a point of contention in the company’s backyard.
即便是在苹果公司的后院里，苹果以及其他高科技公司缴纳的税额也成为了争论的焦点。
A mile and a half from Apple’s Cupertino headquarters is De Anza College, a community college that Steve Wozniak, one of Apple’s founders, attended from 1969 to 1974. Because of California’s state budget crisis, De Anza has cut more than a thousand courses and 8 percent of its faculty since 2008.
德安萨学院(De Anza College)是一家离苹果的库比提诺总部只有1.5英里的社区学院，1969年至1974年间，苹果公司联合创始人史蒂夫·沃兹尼亚克(Steve Wozniak)曾在该校就读。自2008年以来，由于加州的预算危机，德安萨学院已经裁撤裁了1000多门课程和8%的教员。
Now, De Anza faces a budget gap so large that it is confronting a “death spiral,” the school’s president, Brian Murphy, wrote to the faculty in January. Apple, of course, is not responsible for the state’s financial shortfall, which has numerous causes. But the company’s tax policies are seen by officials like Mr. Murphy as symptomatic of why the crisis exists.
今年一月，院长布莱恩·默菲(Brian Murphy)在写给教员的函件中说，由于预算缺口太过庞大，学院面临着一个“死亡漩涡”。当然，州政府的财政困难产生于多种多样的原因，并不是苹果公司的责任。然而，在默菲先生之类的官员看来，苹果公司的税收策略可以说明财政危机的起因。
“I just don’t understand it,” he said in an interview. “I’ll bet every person at Apple has a connection to De Anza. Their kids swim in our pool. Their cousins take classes here. They drive past it every day, for Pete’s sake.
默菲先生在一次采访当中说，“我真的理解不了。我敢打赌，苹果公司的所有人都跟德安萨学院有联系。他们的孩子在我们的游泳池里游泳，他们的亲戚也在我们这里上课。老天作证，他们天天都开车从我们这里经过啊。
“But then they do everything they can to pay as few taxes as possible.”
“即便如此，他们还是不遗余力，尽可能地少交税。” 
Escaping State Taxes
流失的州政府税收
In 2006, as Apple’s bank accounts and stock price were rising, company executives came here to Reno and established a subsidiary named Braeburn Capital to manage and invest the company’s cash. Braeburn is a variety of apple that is simultaneously sweet and tart.
2006年，正当苹果的银行余额和股价节节攀升之际，公司管理层在雷诺市设立了一个名为Braeburn Capital的子公司，通过它来管理和投放公司的现金。“Braeburn”是一种苹果的名字，这种苹果又甜又酸。
Today, Braeburn’s offices are down a narrow hallway inside a bland building that sits across from an abandoned restaurant. Inside, there are posters of candy-colored iPods and a large Apple insignia, as well as a handful of desks and computer terminals.
如今，Braeburn公司的办公室坐落在一家废弃餐馆对面的一幢平凡建筑里，排列在一条狭窄的走廊当中。办公室里张贴着彩色iPod的海报和一个硕大的苹果公司标记，此外还有几张桌子和几台电脑终端。
When someone in the United States buys an iPhone, iPad or other Apple product, a portion of the profits from that sale is often deposited into accounts controlled by Braeburn, and then invested in stocks, bonds or other financial instruments, say company executives. Then, when those investments turn a profit, some of it is shielded from tax authorities in California by virtue of Braeburn’s Nevada address.
苹果公司管理人员说，一旦有人在美国购买了iPhone、 iPad或是其他苹果产品，一部分的销售利润通常会被存入Braeburn公司的账户，然后又会被投放到股票、债券等理财产品当中。等到此类投资产生利润的时候，一部分的利润就可以不受加州税政当局的监管，因为Braeburn是一家内华达公司。
Since founding Braeburn, Apple has earned more than $2.5 billion in interest and dividend income on its cash reserves and investments around the globe. If Braeburn were located in Cupertino, where Apple’s top executives work, a portion of the domestic income would be taxed at California’s 8.84 percent corporate income tax rate.
设立Braeburn公司以来，苹果公司已经从全球的现金储蓄和投资当中获得了超过25亿美元的利息和股息收益。倘若Braeburn公司设在苹果高管上班的地点，也就是库比提诺，公司就得为一部分的国内收益缴纳加州企业所得税，税率为8.84%。
But in Nevada there is no state corporate income tax and no capital gains tax.
但是，内华达州并不征收企业所得税，也没有资本收益税。
What’s more, Braeburn allows Apple to lower its taxes in other states — including Florida, New Jersey and New Mexico — because many of those jurisdictions use formulas that reduce what is owed when a company’s financial management occurs elsewhere. Apple does not disclose what portion of cash taxes is paid to states, but the company reported that it owed $762 million in state income taxes nationwide last year. That effective state tax rate is higher than the rate of many other tech companies, but as Ms. Clausing and other tax analysts have noted, such figures are often not reliable guides to what is actually paid.
除此之外，Braeburn公司还为苹果公司提供了削减他州——包括佛罗里达、新泽西和新墨西哥在内——税额的可能，因为其中的许多州都有减税政策，适用于在外地进行财务管理的公司。苹果从不披露，公司把多大比例的现金税负交到了各州政府手里，但却在报告当中宣称，公司去年欠美国各州的所得税总额是7.62亿美元。按这个数字计算，苹果公司承担的实际州税率比许多高科技公司都要高，但是，正如克洛辛女士等税务分析专家指出的那样，这样的数字通常都不是推算实缴税费的可靠参考。
Dozens of other companies, including Cisco, Harley-Davidson and Microsoft, have also set up Nevada subsidiaries that bypass taxes in other states. Hundreds of other corporations reap similar savings by locating offices in Delaware.
包括思科(Cisco)、哈雷-戴维森(Harley-Davidson)和微软在内的数十家其他公司也在内华达设立了子公司，借此规避他州税赋。另有数百家公司也占到了类似的便宜，方法则是在特拉华州设立分支机构。
But some in California are unhappy that Apple and other California-based companies have moved financial operations to tax-free states — particularly since lawmakers have offered them tax breaks to keep them in the state.
然而，苹果等加州公司将金融业务迁往无税各州的做法已经引起了一些加州人的不满。在加州立法者用税收减免政策来挽留这些公司之后，人们的不满情绪更加强烈。
In 1996, 1999 and 2000, for instance, the California Legislature increased the state’s research and development tax credit, permitting hundreds of companies, including Apple, to avoid billions in state taxes, according to legislative analysts. Apple has reported tax savings of $412 million from research and development credits of all sorts since 1996.
举例来说，多名立法分析专家指出，加州立法机构曾在1996、1999及2000年多次提高研发投入免税额度，包括苹果在内的数百家公司由此少交了数十亿美元的州政府税。苹果公司的报告显示，自1996年以来，各种形式的研发投入免税额度已经带来了4.12亿美元的税收减免。
Then, in 2009, after an intense lobbying campaign led by Apple, Cisco, Oracle, Intel and other companies, the California Legislature reduced taxes for corporations based in California but operating in other states or nations. Legislative analysts say the change will eventually cost the state government about $1.5 billion a year.
2009年，在以苹果、思科、甲骨文(Oracle)、英特尔(Intel)等公司为首的一轮猛烈游说攻势之后，加州立法机构推出了减税政策，受益者是在他州或他国开展业务的加州公司。多名立法分析专家表示，此一政策最终会让加州政府每年损失大约15亿美元的税收。
Such lost revenue is one reason California now faces a budget crisis, with a shortfall of more than $9.2 billion in the coming fiscal year alone. The state has cut some health care programs, significantly raised tuition at state universities, cut services to the disabled and proposed a $4.8 billion reduction in spending on kindergarten and other grades.
加州政府面临着预算危机，单是下一个财政年度的资金缺口就高达92亿美元，原因之一便是上述的税收流失。迫于形势，加州政府已经砍掉了部分医保项目，大幅度提高了州立大学的学费，减少了对残疾人的补助，并拟将幼儿园及其他层级的学校补贴削减48亿美元。
Apple declined to comment on its Nevada operations. Privately, some executives said it was unfair to criticize the company for reducing its tax bill when thousands of other companies acted similarly. If Apple volunteered to pay more in taxes, it would put itself at a competitive disadvantage, they argued, and do a disservice to its shareholders.
苹果公司拒绝就其内华达业务发表评论。一些管理人员私下表示，既然其他的数千家公司也在设法减少税赋账单，单拿苹果说事是不公平的。他们辩称，如果主动选择多交税的话，苹果公司就会处于竞争劣势，公司股东的利益也会受到伤害。
Indeed, Apple’s decisions have yielded benefits. After announcing one of the best quarters in its history last week, the company said it had net profits of $24.7 billion on revenues of $85.5 billion in the first half of the fiscal year, and more than $110 billion in the bank, according to company filings.
千真万确，苹果公司的决定带来了种种利益。上个星期，苹果公司宣布，上个季度是公司有史以来业绩最佳的季度之一。另据公司报告显示，公司在本财年上半年的收入为855亿美元，净利润为247亿美元，银行存款则超过1100亿美元。
A Global Tax Strategy
全球税务战略
Every second of every hour, millions of times each day, in living rooms and at cash registers, consumers click the “Buy” button on iTunes or hand over payment for an Apple product.
起居室里、收银台边，每时每秒都有顾客在点击iTunes界面的“购买”按钮，或是在缴付苹果产品的价款。这样的场面每天都要重演数百万次。
And with that, an international financial engine kicks into gear, moving money across continents in the blink of an eye. While Apple’s Reno office helps the company avoid state taxes, its international subsidiaries — particularly the company’s assignment of sales and patent royalties to other nations — help reduce taxes owed to the American and other governments.
与此同时，一部全球性的金融机器轰然启动，眨眼工夫就实现了财富在各个大洲之间的转移。苹果公司通过雷诺子公司来规避州政府的税赋，同时又通过设立国外子公司的做法——尤其是将公司的销售及专利使用费收入转入其他国家的做法——来减少美国及他国政府的课税额。
For instance, one of Apple’s subsidiaries in Luxembourg, named iTunes S.à r.l., has just a few dozen employees, according to corporate documents filed in that nation and a current executive. The only indication of the subsidiary’s presence outside is a letterbox with a lopsided slip of paper reading “ITUNES SARL.”
举例来说，苹果在卢森堡有一家名为iTunes公司的子公司。按照该公司在卢森堡的备案材料以及一名现职管理人员的说法，该公司只有几十名员工。该公司存在的外部证据只有一条，那便是一个信箱，信箱上歪搭着一张写有“iTunes公司”字样的纸片。
Luxembourg has just half a million residents. But when customers across Europe, Africa or the Middle East — and potentially elsewhere — download a song, television show or app, the sale is recorded in this small country, according to current and former executives. In 2011, iTunes S.à r.l.’s revenue exceeded $1 billion, according to an Apple executive, representing roughly 20 percent of iTunes’s worldwide sales.
卢森堡只有50万居民。然而，按照一些现职或离职公司管理人员的说法，一旦欧洲、非洲或者中东——兴许还包括其他的一些地方——的顾客下载了歌曲、电视节目或者应用软件，相关的销售收入就会被记在这个小国名下。一名苹果公司管理人员说，iTunes 公司2011年的销售收入超过10亿美元，大致相当于iTunes全球销售额的20%。
The advantages of Luxembourg are simple, say Apple executives. The country has promised to tax the payments collected by Apple and numerous other tech corporations at low rates if they route transactions through Luxembourg. Taxes that would have otherwise gone to the governments of Britain, France, the United States and dozens of other nations go to Luxembourg instead, at discounted rates.
多名苹果公司管理人员表示，卢森堡的优势显而易见。该国承诺对苹果等高科技公司的收入实行低税政策，只要他们把相关的交易搬到卢森堡就行。这一来，本应属于英国、法国、美国以及其他数十个国家的税入就流到了卢森堡，只不过税率打了折扣。
“We set up in Luxembourg because of the favorable taxes,” said Robert Hatta, who helped oversee Apple’s iTunes retail marketing and sales for European markets until 2007. “Downloads are different from tractors or steel because there’s nothing you can touch, so it doesn’t matter if your computer is in France or England. If you’re buying from Luxembourg, it’s a relationship with Luxembourg.”
迄2007年为止，罗伯特·哈塔(Robert Hatta)一直在协助监管苹果公司在欧洲市场的iTunes零售营销及销售业务。他说，“我们在卢森堡开公司，图的是优惠的税收政策。可供下载的产品跟拖拉机或者钢铁不同，并不是可以触摸的实物，这一来，你的电脑在法国还是英国都无所谓。只要你是从卢森堡买的，这事情就只跟卢森堡有关系。”
An Apple spokesman declined to comment on the Luxembourg operations.
苹果公司的一名发言人拒绝对公司的卢森堡业务发表评论。
Downloadable goods illustrate how modern tax systems have become increasingly ill equipped for an economy dominated by electronic commerce. Apple, say former executives, has been particularly talented at identifying legal tax loopholes and hiring accountants who, as much as iPhone designers, are known for their innovation. In the 1980s, for instance, Apple was among the first major corporations to designate overseas distributors as “commissionaires,” rather than retailers, said Michael Rashkin, Apple’s first director of tax policy, who helped set up the system before leaving in 1999.
作为例证，可下载产品说明现行税收制度已经与以电子商务为主体的经济越来越不匹配。多名前苹果公司管理人员表示，苹果公司天赋异禀，善于寻找税收制度的法律漏洞，善于雇用那些跟iPhone设计师一样以擅长创新闻名的会计师。迈克尔·拉什金(Michael Rashkin)是苹果的第一任税务总监，曾经参与制定公司的税务战略，直至1999年离职为止。拉什金说，举例来说，远在20世纪80年代，苹果就开始用“库管”（commissionaire）而不是“零售商”这个词来称呼海外的分销商，成为了采用此种称谓的第一批大公司之一。
To customers the designation was virtually unnoticeable. But because commissionaires never technically take possession of inventory — which would require them to recognize taxes — the structure allowed a salesman in high-tax Germany, for example, to sell computers on behalf of a subsidiary in low-tax Singapore. Hence, most of those profits would be taxed at Singaporean, rather than German, rates.
对于顾客来说，这个称谓并没有什么值得留意的地方。然而，从条文上说，“库管”并不是存货的主人，由此也就不需要认缴相关税赋。这样一来，通过“库管”制度，公司就可以让德国等高税收国家的销售人员代表新加坡等低税收国家的子公司销售电脑，进而按照新加坡而非德国的税率为大部分的销售利润上税。
The Double Irish
爱尔兰面包片
In the late 1980s, Apple was among the pioneers in creating a tax structure — known as the Double Irish — that allowed the company to move profits into tax havens around the world, said Tim Jenkins, who helped set up the system as an Apple European finance manager until 1994.
直至1994年，蒂姆·詹金斯(Tim Jenkins)一直是苹果公司的一名欧洲财务经理，并且帮助公司建立了所谓的“爱尔兰面包片”税务架构。他说，20世纪80年代晚期，苹果公司成为了创制这种税务架构的先行者之一。有了这种架构，公司就可以把利润转往世界各地的避税天堂。
Apple created two Irish subsidiaries — today named Apple Operations International and Apple Sales International — and built a glass-encased factory amid the green fields of Cork. The Irish government offered Apple tax breaks in exchange for jobs, according to former executives with knowledge of the relationship.
那个时候，苹果在爱尔兰设立了如今分别名为“苹果运营国际公司”(Apple Operations International)和“苹果销售国际公司”(Apple Sales International)的两家子公司，并在科克市（Cork）的绿野之中建起了一座玻璃幕墙环绕的工厂。据一些熟悉当时情形的前苹果管理人员所说，为了换取工作机会，爱尔兰政府答应向苹果公司提供税收减免政策。
But the bigger advantage was that the arrangement allowed Apple to send royalties on patents developed in California to Ireland. The transfer was internal, and simply moved funds from one part of the company to a subsidiary overseas. But as a result, some profits were taxed at the Irish rate of approximately 12.5 percent, rather than at the American statutory rate of 35 percent. In 2004, Ireland, a nation of less than 5 million, was home to more than one-third of Apple’s worldwide revenues, according to company filings. (Apple has not released more recent estimates.)
不过，这样的安排还有一个更大的好处，也就是说，苹果公司可以把加州研发的专利带来的使用费转到爱尔兰。这样的转移发生在公司内部，不过是将资金从公司的一个部门转入一个海外子公司而已。然而，随之而来的结果却是，公司的一部分利润逃过了高达35%的美国法定税率，转而按12.5%左右的爱尔兰税率上税。按照苹果公司的报告，2004年，公司的全球收入当中有超过三分之一来自人口不到500万的爱尔兰。（苹果公司不曾公布时间更近的估计数字。）
Moreover, the second Irish subsidiary — the “Double” — allowed other profits to flow to tax-free companies in the Caribbean. Apple has assigned partial ownership of its Irish subsidiaries to Baldwin Holdings Unlimited in the British Virgin Islands, a tax haven, according to documents filed there and in Ireland. Baldwin Holdings has no listed offices or telephone number, and its only listed director is Peter Oppenheimer, Apple’s chief financial officer, who lives and works in Cupertino. Baldwin apples are known for their hardiness while traveling.
除此之外，通过另一家爱尔兰子公司——也就是所谓的“第二片面包”，苹果公司还把其他一些利润转进了加勒比地区的一些零税负公司。英属维尔京群岛——避税天堂之一——和爱尔兰的公司备案材料显示，苹果公司把两家爱尔兰子公司的部分所有权交给了岛上的鲍德温控股无限公司（Baldwin Holdings Unlimited）。鲍德温控股公司没有登记在册的办公地点和电话号码，登记在册的惟一一名管理人员是苹果的首席财务官彼得·奥本海默(Peter Oppenheimer)，而奥本海默居住和工作的地点都是库比提诺。“鲍德温”也是一种苹果，以不易变质、适于转运闻名。
Finally, because of Ireland’s treaties with European nations, some of Apple’s profits could travel virtually tax-free through the Netherlands — the Dutch Sandwich — which made them essentially invisible to outside observers and tax authorities.
最后，由于爱尔兰与欧洲各国签有协议，苹果公司还可以在不缴纳任何税费的情况下，取道荷兰——也就是所谓的“荷兰夹心”——将部分利润转往他处。这样一来，外界观察人士和税政当局基本无法察知这些利润的存在。
Robert Promm, Apple’s controller in the mid-1990s, called the strategy “the worst-kept secret in Europe.”
曾在20世纪90年代中期担任苹果财务总监的罗伯特·普洛姆(Robert Promm)称这一策略为“全欧洲最昭然若揭的秘密”。
It is unclear precisely how Apple’s overseas finances now function. In 2006, the company reorganized its Irish divisions as unlimited corporations, which have few requirements to disclose financial information.
关于苹果公司目前的海外财务运作方式，我们没有掌握准确的情况。2006年，苹果公司对它的爱尔兰分支机构进行了重组，把它们变成了几乎不需要披露任何财务信息的无限公司。
However, tax experts say that strategies like the Double Irish help explain how Apple has managed to keep its international taxes to 3.2 percent of foreign profits last year, to 2.2 percent in 2010, and in the single digits for the last half-decade, according to the company’s corporate filings.
不过，税务专家们指出，诸如“爱尔兰面包片”之类的策略有助于说明苹果公司取得如下成就的原因：苹果公司报告显示，公司国外税额与国外利润的比率去年是3.2%，2010年则是2.2%，前面五年也始终保持在个位数。
Apple declined to comment on its operations in Ireland, the Netherlands and the British Virgin Islands.
苹果公司拒绝就公司的爱尔兰、荷兰及英属维尔京群岛业务发表评论。
Apple reported in its last annual disclosures that $24 billion — or 70 percent — of its total $34.2 billion in pretax profits were earned abroad, and 30 percent were earned in the United States. But Mr. Sullivan, the former Treasury Department economist who today writes for the trade publication Tax Analysts, said that “given that all of the marketing and products are designed here, and the patents were created in California, that number should probably be at least 50 percent.”
苹果公司的上一次年报显示，总计342亿美元的公司税前利润当中有240亿——也就是70%——来自海外，来自美国的利润只占30%。然而，如今为行业出版机构“税务分析师”(Tax Analysts)撰稿的前财政部经济学家沙利文先生说，“鉴于苹果公司所有的营销策略和产品都是在美国设计的、所有的专利都是在加州研发的，这个比例多半应该在50%以上。”
If profits were evenly divided between the United States and foreign countries, Apple’s federal tax bill would have increased by about $2.4 billion last year, he said, because a larger amount of its profits would have been subject to the United States’ higher corporate income tax rate.
他说，假设苹果公司的利润一半来自美国、一半来自海外的话，该公司去年的联邦税额就会增加大约24亿美元，原因是利润额增大之后，美国的企业所得税税率也会水涨船高。
“Apple, like many other multinationals, is using perfectly legal methods to keep a significant portion of their profits out of the hands of the I.R.S.,” Mr. Sullivan said. “And when America’s most profitable companies pay less, the general public has to pay more.”
沙利文先生说，“跟其他许多跨国公司一样，苹果公司也用上了一些完全合法的手段，以便让比例庞大的利润逃脱美国国税局(IRS)的监管。美国那些最赚钱的公司都减轻了负担，普通民众就得背上更重的包袱。”
Other tax experts, like Edward D. Kleinbard, former chief of staff of the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, have reached similar conclusions.
包括前美国国会税收联席委员会(Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation)幕僚长爱德华·克莱恩巴德(Edward D. Kleinbard)在内的其他一些税务专家也得出了类似的结论。
“This tax avoidance strategy used by Apple and other multinationals doesn’t just minimize the companies’ U.S. taxes,” said Mr. Kleinbard, now a professor of tax law at the University of Southern California. “It’s German tax and French tax and tax in the U.K. and elsewhere.”
如今在南加州大学(University of Southern California)担任税法教授的克莱恩巴德先生说，“苹果及其他一些跨国公司采用的这种避税策略不只是最大限度地减少了这些公司的美国税负，还包括它们在德国、法国、英国以及其他地方的税负。”
One downside for companies using such strategies is that when money is sent overseas, it cannot be returned to the United States without incurring a new tax bill.
对于这些公司来说，此类策略也有一个不利之处：财富一旦转出美国，回国之时就必然摊上一张新的税单。
However, that might change. Apple, which holds $74 billion offshore, last year aligned itself with more than four dozen companies and organizations urging Congress for a “repatriation holiday” that would permit American businesses to bring money home without owing large taxes. The coalition, which includes Google, Microsoft and Pfizer, has hired dozens of lobbyists to push for the measure, which has not yet come up for vote. The tax break would cost the federal government $79 billion over the next decade, according to a Congressional report.
不过，这样的局面兴许会发生改变。去年，拥有740亿美元海外资产的苹果公司与包括谷歌、微软和辉瑞(Pfizer)在内的将近50家公司和其他机构结成联盟，敦促国会推出“归国减免”政策、允许美国企业在无需承担巨额税赋的条件下将财富转回美国。该联盟雇用了数十名游说专家，竭力推动这项尚未进入表决程序的措施。国会的一份报告显示，这样的税收减免一旦成为现实，联邦政府就会在下一个十年当中蒙受790亿美元的税收损失。
Fallout in California
加州的苦果
In one of his last public appearances before his death, Steven P. Jobs, Apple’s chief executive, addressed Cupertino’s City Council last June, seeking approval to build a new headquarters.
去年六月，苹果首席执行官史蒂芬·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)在库比提诺市议会发表了一次演讲。这是他去世之前的最后几次公开亮相之一，目的则是说服市议会批准苹果公司兴建新总部的计划。
Most of the Council was effusive in its praise of the proposal. But one councilwoman, Kris Wang, had questions.
大多数市议会议员都对苹果公司的计划赞不绝口，华裔女议员胡宜兰(Kris Wang)却提出了质疑。
How will residents benefit? she asked. Perhaps Apple could provide free wireless Internet to Cupertino, she suggested, something Google had done in neighboring Mountain View.
本地居民能得到什么好处呢？她如是发问。她提议苹果公司为库比提诺提供免费Wi-Fi，谷歌就为公司所在的山景城(Mountain View)办了这件好事。
“See, I’m a simpleton; I’ve always had this view that we pay taxes, and the city should do those things,” Mr. Jobs replied, according to a video of the meeting. “That’s why we pay taxes. Now, if we can get out of paying taxes, I’ll be glad to put up Wi-Fi.”
会议录像显示，乔布斯先生的回答是，“你们看，我这个人的头脑非常简单。我始终认为，我们既然交了税，这样的事情就应该由市政府来办。这就是我们交税的原因。好了，如果我们可以不交税的话，我倒是很乐意提供Wi-Fi。”
He suggested that, if the City Council were unhappy, perhaps Apple could move. The company is Cupertino’s largest taxpayer, with more than $8 million in property taxes assessed by local officials last year.
他还暗示，如果市议会不满意的话，苹果公司也可以搬到别的地方去。苹果公司是库比提诺最大的纳税人，当地官员去年为该公司估定的财产税超过了800万美元。
Ms. Wang dropped her suggestion.
胡女士收回了自己的提议。
Cupertino, Ms. Wang said in an interview, has real financial problems. “We’re proud to have Apple here,” said Ms. Wang, who has since left the Council. “But how do you get them to feel more connected?”
那次会议之后，胡女士退出了市议会。她在一次采访当中说，库比提诺面临着严重的财政问题，“我们为苹果公司位于本地而自豪。可是，怎样才能让他们产生更多的归属感呢？”
Other residents argue that Apple does enough as Cupertino’s largest employer and that tech companies, in general, have buoyed California’s economy. Apple’s workers eat in local restaurants, serve on local boards and donate to local causes. Silicon Valley’s many millionaires pay personal state income taxes. In its statement, Apple said its “international growth is creating jobs domestically, since we oversee most of our operations from California.”
其他一些库比提诺居民表示，作为本地最大的纳税人，苹果公司已经做得够多了，总体上说，各家高科技公司也促进了加州的经济繁荣。苹果公司的员工在本地的餐馆吃饭，参加本地的各种委员会，还为本地的公益事业捐款。硅谷的众多百万富翁都在向州政府缴纳个人所得税。苹果公司在声明当中说，公司的“全球增长带来了国内的工作机会，因为我们是在加州对大部分的业务实施管理的。”
“The vast majority of our global work force remains in the U.S.,” the statement continued, “with more than 47,000 full-time employees in all 50 states.”
声明还说，“时至今日，我们的绝大多数员工仍然在美国工作。全美50个州都有我们的全职员工，总数超过4万7千。”
Moreover, Apple has given nearby Stanford University more than $50 million in the last two years. The company has also donated $50 million to an African aid organization. In its statement, Apple said: “We have contributed to many charitable causes but have never sought publicity for doing so. Our focus has been on doing the right thing, not getting credit for it. In 2011, we dramatically expanded the number of deserving organizations we support by initiating a matching gift program for our employees.”
过去两年当中，苹果公司还向附近的斯坦福大学(Stanford University)捐了5000多万美元。除此之外，公司捐给一家非洲援助组织的善款也达到了5000万美元。苹果公司在声明当中说：“我们为许多慈善事业提供了资助，但却从未借此沽名钓誉。我们关注的焦点是做正确的事情，并不是借此邀功。2011年，我们针对公司员工的个人捐赠启动了一个配套捐助项目，由此大幅度地提高了受援公益机构的数目。”