Apple has moved to register “iWatch” as a trademark in several countries, fueling speculation that the company is working on a gadget worn on the wrist that does a lot more than keep the time.
苹果(Apple)已经行动起来，在数个国家把“iWatch”注册为商标，令人们愈发猜疑，该公司是否在研发一种戴在腕上的小设备，能够提供比查看时间多得多的功能。
Over the past month, Apple has sought trademark protection for the term in at least four places: Taiwan, Russia, Mexico and Japan. The flurry of moves to seek ownership of the iWatch name suggests that a high-technology wristwatch may soon join the iPod, iPhone and iPad in Apple’s lineup, analysts said.
过去一个月里，苹果至少在四个地方为这个词寻求商标保护，它们分别是台湾、俄罗斯、墨西哥和日本。分析人士称，这一连串追求iWatch名称所有权的动作显示出，一种高科技腕表可能会很快加入苹果的iPod、iPhone和iPad的行列。
An Apple watch could be a landmark in the development of so-called wearable technology, which turns the human body into a mobile computing and communications platform.
苹果手表可能成为所谓的可穿戴技术的一块里程碑，这种技术会把人类身体转变为一个移动计算与通讯平台。
“Yes, the iWatch is going to come, and it has already triggered a lot of similar products from the competition,” said Tom Kang, an analyst at Counterpoint Research. “It will definitely be a significant steppingstone, in our view.”
“没错，iWatch就要来了，而且它已经引发了大量类似产品的竞争，”Counterpoint Research咨询公司的分析师汤姆·康(Tom Kang)说。“在我们看来，它一定会成为技术进步上的一块重要垫脚石。”
As usual, Apple is being secretive about its intentions. It declined to comment on the applications for trademark protection.
像往常一样，苹果对自己的意图秘而不宣。该公司拒绝就商标保护申请置评。
An application that Apple filed with Taiwan’s Intellectual Property Office last month provides only sketchy information, showing an iWatch logo in capital letters. Under the heading “device color,” it states, “black.”
上个月，苹果递交给台湾的智慧财产局(Intellectual Property Office)的一份申请只提供了一些模糊的信息，其中有一个以大写字母写成的iWatch商标。该申请在“设备颜色”一栏下写着“黑色”。
The Taiwan application seeks to protect the iWatch name in two product categories, under international standards for trademarks. These include a class that covers a range of electronic and technology products, from computer software to “fire extinguishing equipment,” as well as a second category including “horological and chronometric instruments” and “precious metals and their alloys.”
这份在台湾的申请寻求在两个商品类别下，根据商标的国际标准保护iWatch这个名字。其中一个类别覆盖了一系列电子科技产品，从电脑软件到“灭火设备”，而另一个类别包括“钟表和精密计时仪器”以及“贵金属及其合金”。
Apple has filed similar applications in at least three other countries — Russia, Japan and Mexico — according to news reports. Copies of those applications could not immediately be obtained.
新闻报道称，苹果已经在其余至少三个国家递交了类似的申请，包括俄罗斯、日本和墨西哥。这些申请的副本无法被立即获得。
Securing the iWatch name globally could be challenging for Apple, though. An Italian software company, Probendi, has registered the name in the European Union.
然而，想要在全球范围内保护iWatch这个名称对苹果来说并不容易。意大利软件公司Probendi已经在欧盟注册了这一名称。
Analysts said the filings did not necessarily mean that Apple planned to introduce a watch. The filings could simply be protective, an effort to prevent other companies from using the name. Or the iWatch name could be applied to an entirely different technology, like television.
分析人士称，这些申请并不一定意味着苹果计划推出一款手表。这些申请可能只是一种防范措施，旨在防止其他公司使用此名称。又或者iWatch这个名字可以应用在一个完全不同的技术领域，例如电视。
The development of devices like Google Glass, a type of Internet-connected eyewear, has fueled excitement about wearable technology in the industry, which is looking for sources of growth beyond smartphones.
诸如能够联网的谷歌眼镜(Google Glass)之类设备的开发，已经激起了消费电子业对可穿戴技术的兴趣，业界正在寻找智能手机之外的增长来源。
A number of companies, including Apple’s biggest rival, Samsung Electronics, are said to be working on watches that synchronize with smartphones or that provide smartphone-like functions.
包括苹果的最大竞争对手三星电子(Samsung Electronics)在内的许多公司都表示，正在致力于研制能够与智能手机同步或提供智能手机类功能的手表。
Several other companies already make such gadgets. Sony, for example, last year introduced the SmartWatch, which lets users play games, check Facebook pages or send text messages simply by tapping their wrists.The SmartWatch does not actually make phone calls or provide Internet connections. Instead, it hooks up with smartphones running Google’s Android operating system, using Bluetooth technology. Sony last week unveiled a successor, the SmartWatch 2.
其他几家公司已经制造出了这类小设备。例如，索尼(Sony)在去年推出了SmartWatch，令用户能够通过点击自己的手腕来玩游戏、查看Facebook页面或发短信。SmartWatch实际上并不能用来打电话或提供互联网连接。它是通过蓝牙技术与运行谷歌Android操作系统的智能手机相连。索尼在上周发布了其换代产品SmartWatch 2。
Other watches with so-called smart functions include the I’m Watch and the Pebble Watch. While the features vary, gadgets like these generally include small touch screens and allow users to download applications that help them control their smartphones without having to pull them out of their pockets.
其他带有所谓智能功能的手表包括I’m Watch和Pebble Watch。尽管有着不同的特点，这类小设备通常都包含一个小触摸屏，并且允许用户下载一种应用，使他们在控制智能手机时不必将其掏出口袋。
“Every company making a smart watch is finding its feet,” said Ian Fogg, an analyst at the research firm IHS. “Everyone knows it’s something you wear on your wrist, but nobody knows what features consumers will want. Just as a smartphone isn’t really about the phone, the smart watch is not really about telling time.”
“每一家制造智能手表的公司都在摸索中前进，”研究企业环球通视(IHS)的分析师伊恩·福格(Ian Fogg)说。“谁都知道这是可以戴在手腕上的东西，但没人知道消费者想要什么特性。就像智能手机的重点不在打电话一样，智能手表的重点也不在看时间。”
While sales of these devices have been sluggish, analysts say an Apple watch may attract greater interest because of the company’s flair for design and marketing, as well as its ability to tie new gadgets and applications into the Apple mobile operating system.
尽管这些设备的销售量一直不景气，分析师称苹果手表可能会吸引更广泛的兴趣，因为该公司擅长设计和营销，还有能力把新设备及其应用连接到苹果的移动操作系统中。
“We think entering the wearable device market will strengthen the Apple ecosystem,” Ming-Chi Kuo, an analyst at KGI Securities, wrote in a note to clients. “For example, it will offer more new applications, such as health applications, and upgrade the user experience by being highly integrated with existing Apple products.”
“我们认为，涉足可穿戴设备市场将会强化苹果生态系统，”KGI证券(KGI Securities)分析师郭明池(Ming-Chi Kuo)在给用户的报告中写道，“例如，它可以提供更多新的应用，比如健康应用，并且通过与现有的苹果产品高度结合来提升用户体验。”