MIAMI BEACH — When Gianni Versace bought a deteriorated tenement on Ocean Drive in 1992, transformed it into a figure of opulence and called it home, the increasingly obvious became official: South Beach had arrived.
迈阿密滩——当詹尼·范思哲(Gianni Versace)1992年在海洋大道(Ocean Drive)上购买了一栋摇摇欲坠的公寓楼，把它修饰得富丽堂皇，变成自己的家之后，那个日益明显的事实就正式确定了下来：南滩时期已经到来。
Embraced by a select few but not yet overexposed, Ocean Drive, the most celebrated street in South Beach, undulated with sultriness and whimsy. Models on Rollerblades sped along the sea wall, portfolios in hand. One by one, pastel Art Deco hotels began to scrub away neglect. Ibiza-style nightclubs proliferated. And Miami’s Latin feel offered the ultimate mixer.
海洋大道是南滩最著名的街道，交织着闷热和反复无常的气氛，这里曾被少数精英所喜爱，在他们过度出风头之前。模特们手里拿着照片集，脚下蹬着滑轮，沿着防波堤迅速而过。色彩柔和的装饰艺术派旅馆一家接一家地开始清洗掉多年失修的痕迹。伊比沙风格的夜总会数量激增。迈阿密的拉丁感给这里的氛围注入了最终的韵味。
“Gianni coming in, and being so high profile, it was a seal of approval for the doubters who, up until then, thought it was all a flash in the pan, that it wouldn’t last,” said Louis Canales, who helped promote the South Beach scene.
帮助推广南滩风光的路易斯·卡纳莱斯(Louis Canales)说，“詹尼这么张扬地到来，对那些那时还认为这一切不过是昙花一现的怀疑者来说，是一种正式认可。”
Much has changed on that prime stretch of South Beach since then, including the mansion’s fortunes.
从那之后，南滩这片黄金地段发生了巨大的变化，其中也包括这所豪宅的命运。
In 1997, as Mr. Versace climbed the front steps of his palace, he was shot dead by Andrew Cunanan, a serial killing suspect. His mansion, though, remains, with its mosaics, marble floors, onyx toilet, a swimming pool flecked with 24-karat gold and abundant frescoes.
1997年，范思哲走在自己宫殿门前的台阶上时，被一个系列谋杀嫌犯安德鲁·库纳南(Andrew Cunanan)开枪打死。但是他的宅邸依然如故，里面有马赛克镶嵌的图案、大理石地面、缟玛瑙马桶，以及一个点缀着24开黄金和绘有大量壁画的游泳池。
While it is aesthetically intact, it is foundering financially. In 2000, the Versace family sold the property for $19 million to a telecom entrepreneur, Peter Loftin. Over the past 13 years, it has been a residence, a private club, a boutique hotel and event spaces.
虽然这座房子在审美上没有变化，但它的财政却每况愈下。2000年，范思哲家人将它以1900万美元（约合1.6亿元人民币）卖给一个电信企业家皮特·洛夫廷(Peter Loftin)。过去13年中，这里作过住宅、私人俱乐部、精品客栈以及活动空间。
On Sept. 17, Casa Casuarina, as the mansion is called, will be auctioned off, a casualty of lawsuits, countersuits, missed mortgage payments, back taxes and a federal bankruptcy proceeding initiated this summer to stave off foreclosure.
9月17日这座名为“木麻黄之家”(Casa Casuarina)的豪宅将会被拍卖，它成为接踵而来的麻烦的牺牲品：诉讼、反诉讼、拖欠的抵押贷款、需要补交的税款，以及为推迟抵押品赎回权被取消在今夏启动的联邦破产程序。
Considered one of the country’s most expensive homes, the mansion was put on the market in June of last year for $125 million; it was later reduced to $75 million. With the property now in bankruptcy proceedings, a judge signed off on the auction, which requires an opening offer of $25 million.
这座房子被认为是美国最贵的住宅之一，去年6月份的挂牌上市价曾是1.25亿美元（相当于7.67亿元人民币），后来降价到7500万美元。由于这座住宅现在处于破产程序之中，一名法官批准对它进行拍卖，拍卖要求的最低出价为2500万美元。
Bidding on the property, even at the reduced price, requires deep pockets. A total of $3 million must be put in escrow, and prospective buyers must show proof of a minimum of $40 million in funds.
即使它已经降价不少，竞拍这栋豪宅仍需要有雄厚的财力。竞拍人必须交出由第三方代为保管的总计300万美元的预付款，潜在买家还必须出具拥有至少4000万美元资金的证明。
Preference initially goes to VM South Beach, which is affiliated with the Nakash family and their Jordache Enterprises. VM South Beach bought the mortgage on the mansion for $25 million in December, and it can hold onto the property by bidding at least $32.5 million. Others are free to bid beyond that amount to try to buy the 23,000-square-foot house, which has 10 bedrooms, 11 bathrooms and sits behind a landscaped wall. It can be used as a private home or as a commercial space, which Barton G., the prominent event planning company, did for a few years when it leased the property.
隶属于纳卡什(Nakash)家族及该家族的约达西公司(Jordache Enterprises)的VM南滩公司(VM South Beach)享有最初的优先权。VM南滩公司去年12月花2500万美元购买了这栋豪宅的抵押贷款，如果公司出至少3250万美元的价钱，就能保住这栋豪宅。其他人有出更高价钱的自由，如果他们想买下这栋建筑面积为2.3万平方英尺（约合2140平方米）的房产的话。这栋房子有10间卧室和11个卫生间，房子坐落在树木形成的墙之后。它可以用作私人住宅，也可以作为商业空间，著名的活动策划公司Barton G曾租用过这栋房子几年，那期间，它被当做商用空间。
“You’re in your own private world here,” said Jill Eber, the listing agent and one of the country’s top real estate brokers. “When you step through the front door, it’s like you’re stepping back in time.”
“在这里，你就在自己的私人世界里，”挂牌出售该房产的中介吉尔·埃贝尔(Jill Eber)说，“从前门一进来，就像走进时光倒流那样。”她是美国的顶尖房产经纪人之一。
Inside, Mr. Versace unleashed a tangle of styles: Greek, Roman, Moorish, Spanish, Egyptian, and just plain decadent. He commissioned frescoes, stained-glass windows, a Moroccan-themed shower and pebble and tile mosaics, and plunked small gold tiles into his pool.
在房子里，范思哲放荡不羁地展示了各种风格的大杂烩：希腊的、罗马的、摩尔式、西班牙式、埃及式，以及毫不掩饰的贪图享乐式。他找人定做了壁画、彩绘玻璃窗户、一个摩洛哥题材的淋浴间和鹅卵石以及马赛克瓷砖，还给游泳池镶了小的纯金拼贴。
“I would say that this the No. 1 attraction on the beach to this day,” said Jerry Powers, who founded the glossy Ocean Drive magazine in 1992 and was its publisher for 15 years. “People take pictures in front of the gates. The Versace brand lives on in a big, big way.”
“我敢说，这栋房子至今仍是海滩上最吸引人的地方，”于1992年创办了华丽的《滨海大道》(Ocean Drive)杂志并担任其发行人15年的杰里·鲍尔斯(Jerry Powers)说，“人们到这栋房子门前拍照。范思哲的品牌仍在继续发扬光大。”
But the years after Mr. Versace’s murder led to a downturn of sorts on South Beach. Burnout set in; an identity crisis took hold.
但是，在范思哲被杀之后的几年中，南滩曾一度低迷。这里的光彩不再，出现了一种身份危机。
Then in the past decade, South Beach remade itself again. A new wave of hip, high-end hotels opened in the northern reaches of South Beach and beyond. Art Basel took up residence in winter, followed by the Food and Wine Festival and other events. Marquee architects, like Frank Gehry, unsheathed their talents.
之后，在过去的十年中，南滩重塑了自己的形象。在南滩的最北边及其他地区，出现了众多新颖、时髦的高档酒店。巴塞尔艺术展(Art Basel)在冬季入住这里，随之而来的是美食美酒节(Food and Wine Festival)和其他活动。法兰克·盖瑞(Frank Gehry)等大牌建筑师也来到这里施展才华。
But today, the place is a mixture. Ocean Drive north of Fifth Street, with its packed sidewalk cafes, lurched toward mass tourism and a Bourbon Street ambience. The street caters to tourists, offering menu pushers alongside wax-food displays and a more urban atmosphere.
如今，这里是多种元素混杂的地方。滨海大道第五街以北的地段，以其波旁街氛围（波旁街是美国新奥尔良市的法式传统街道，以旅游著称——译注）迎合大众化旅游的口味，人行道旁布满了咖啡馆。街上的商店多为游客的需求，菜谱推销员站在展示着蜡塑食品的橱窗边吸引客人，更具都市的氛围。
“It’s loud, it’s noisy, and it’s low-end,” Mr. Powers said.
用鲍尔斯的话说，“这里很吵、很热闹、也很低端。”
The center of gravity moved north — to pedestrian-friendly Lincoln Road and the high-end beachfront hotels like the Setai along Collins Avenue. Many cater to the 1 percent who swoop into expensive clubs like LIV at the Fontainebleau or restaurants like Prime 112, then swoop back out. If anything, Miami Beach has grown richer and more exclusive in recent years, with sales of high-end homes breaking records.
活动的重心继续向北移动，移到对行人友好的林肯路，移到Setai酒店等高级临海酒店所在的柯林斯大道。这里的经营大多为了迎合那百分之一的人口（占领华尔街运动的一个口号把美国人区分为百分之一的有钱人和百分之九十九的普通老百姓——译注）。他们目中无人地走进位于枫丹白露酒店的LIV那样的高档俱乐部，或是像Prime 112那样的高档餐馆，又目中无人地走出来。如果说迈阿密滩有变化的话，这几年来，它变得更富丽堂皇，更高不可攀，这里高端住宅的销售屡破纪录。
In recent years, the Versace mansion became one of the few high-end spaces in that section of Ocean Drive. Barton G. Weiss, who owns Barton G., leased the mansion in 2010 and used it until recently. He created a boutique hotel and hosted exclusive events. Business was good, until the property was listed for sale, which created an element of unpredictability, and bookings plummeted, he said. Soon after, the mansion was in bankruptcy.
近年来，范思哲庄园成了这一段海滨大道上少有的几个高端公共场所之一。Barton G.的主人巴顿·G·维斯(Barton G. Weiss)于2010年租下这所豪宅，直到最近一直在经营它。他用豪宅办了一家精品酒店，还主持过许多需要邀请才能参加的活动。他说，在该物业被挂牌出售之前，生意一直不错，因为要卖房子，带来了不确定因素，导致订单下降。很快，这所豪宅陷入了破产的境地。
Pitching it as a commercial property is the way to go, Mr. Weiss said, because “I don’t know anyone who would love to live on Ocean Drive.”
维斯说，把豪宅当做商用财产出售是最好的办法，因为“我不知道任何人会喜欢住在滨海大道上”。
But the allure and beauty of the mansion are unmistakable. Shutting out the chaos of Ocean Drive is as easy as closing the front door, he said.
然而，这所豪宅的吸引力与魅力是再明显不过了。他说，把海滨大道的喧嚣关在门外，就像关上大门那么容易。
“It’s a gem,” he said.
“这是一件瑰宝，”他说道。