It was close to 11 p.m. on Sunday and Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of the private equity firm Blackstone Group, was sitting on a small, curved couch at a Versace after-party. To his left, the designers Donatella Versace and Riccardo Tisci were smoking. A few feet away, a couple were exuberantly making out. Rose petals were strewn all over the place.
巴黎——周日晚上快11点，在范思哲(Versace)的余兴派对上，私募股权公司黑石集团(Blackstone Group)的首席执行官斯蒂芬·A·施瓦茨曼(Stephen A. Schwarzman)坐一个弧形小沙发里。在他左边，设计师多纳泰拉·范思哲(Donatella Versace)和里卡多·提西(Riccardo Tisci)在抽烟。几英尺外，一对情侣纵情亲热。到处都撒满玫瑰花瓣。
“I’m just a simple businessman,” said Mr. Schwarzman, whose company owns a stake in Versace. “This is a pretty unique thing. There are few places in the world where...” He paused. “This goes on.”
“我只是一个普通商人，”施瓦茨曼说。他的公司持有范思哲的股份。“这个派对非常独特。世界上别的地方几乎都没有……”他停顿了一下，“这样的派对。”
The men’s fall 2015 shows have ended, the couture shows have begun, and this is the sort of odd mingling that can happen here: Flamboyant designers and actresses partying alongside buttoned-up billionaires.
2015年秋冬男装秀已经结束，高级定制时装秀已经开始，这里的交际有些怪异：耀眼的设计师和女演员与拘谨的亿万富翁一起参加派对。
The Versace show had kicked off the spring couture season an hour earlier. Goldie Hawn sat in the front row, accompanied by her daughter, Kate Hudson. “We have decades of Versace in our lives,” Ms. Hawn said. “In our living rooms, making dresses for us. When Kate was a little girl, they would all come to dress me. Now they’re dressing her. And dressing me! They dressed me last year at the Academy Awards.”
一小时前，范思哲时装秀拉开了春夏高级定制时装季的序幕。戈尔迪·霍恩(Goldie Hawn)在女儿凯特·哈德森(Kate Hudson)的陪伴下坐在头排。“我们穿范思哲好几十年了，”霍恩说，“他们在我们的客厅里给我们做裙子。凯特小时候，他们会来给我做衣服。现在，他们在给她做衣服。也给我做衣服！去年我参加奥斯卡颁奖礼时穿的就是他们的衣服。”
Versace sells itself on sex, but couture has a somewhat sobering effect. At Ms. Versace’s spring ready-to-wear show in September, the soundtrack was sexually explicit and profane. As the couture models came out for the finale on Sunday night, Marvin Gaye’s (far tamer) “Sexual Healing” played.
范思哲以性感为卖点，但是高级定制服装多少有些庄重。在去年9月范思哲的春夏成衣秀上，背景音乐具有明确的性暗示。周日晚上，高级定制时装秀的模特们出来谢幕时，背景音乐要温和得多，是马文·盖伊(Marvin Gaye)的《性爱疗法》(Sexual Healing)。
Guests made their way to the after-party, including Mr. Tisci, Givenchy’s creative director, who said Givenchy would start running couture shows again, smiled and then walked away. (The brand announced in late 2012 that it was taking a break from couture).
客人们来到余兴派对，纪梵希的创意总监提西也来了。他说纪梵希会再次举办高级定制时装秀，然后笑了笑就走开了（2012年底纪梵希宣布暂停举办高级定制时装秀）。
The party was held at the nightclub L’Arc, and the singer Ellie Goulding performed and the actress Michelle Rodriguez was the D.J. “The closest thing I can compare it to is Cannes,” Ms. Rodriguez said of her first couture experience. “People can play. People can dream.”
这场派对在凯旋门夜总会(L’Arc)举办，歌手埃莉·古尔丁(Ellie Goulding)献唱，女演员米歇尔·罗德里格斯(Michelle Rodriguez)担任DJ。“我觉得只有戛纳能跟它相提并论，”罗德里格斯谈起自己的第一次高级定制时装秀体验时说，“人们可以玩，可以梦想。”
Ms. Versace used one word to describe couture versus the ready-to-wear shows: “Freedom.”
范思哲女士用一个词来描述高级定制时装秀和成衣秀的区别：“自由”。
It was a little after midnight, and the model Karlie Kloss, who was still in the tight, skin-exposing white jumpsuit she had worn on the runway, danced with other models. “I’m really enjoying this more than I ever have, compared to any other fashion week,” she said. “There are only a handful of shows, so you get to actually go out and see Paris. You actually get to see friends.”
午夜过后，模特卡莉·克劳斯(Karlie Kloss)仍穿着她在秀台上穿的白色紧身暴露连衣裤，和其他模特们一起跳舞。“这次我真的比以前任何一次时装周都快乐，”她说，“只有几场时装秀，所以可以真的走出去看看巴黎。可以真的见见朋友。”