One of the defining moments in the history of breast cancer occurred in 1974 when the first lady, Betty Ford, spoke openly about her mastectomy, lifting a veil of secrecy from the disease and ushering in a new era of breast cancer awareness.
乳腺癌历史上的关键时刻之一出现在1974年，当时，第一夫人贝蒂·福特(Betty Ford)公开谈及自己的乳房切除手术，揭开了乳腺癌的隐秘面纱，开启了认识这一疾病的新时代。
Now four decades later, another leading lady — the actress Angelina Jolie — has focused public attention on breast cancer again, but this time with an even bolder message: A woman at genetic risk should feel empowered to remove both breasts as a way to prevent the disease. Ms. Jolie revealed on Tuesday that because she carries a cancer-causing mutation, she has had a double mastectomy.
40年后的今天，另一位知名女性、演员安吉丽娜·朱莉(Angelina Jolie)再次让公众的注意力集中到了乳腺癌上，但这次，她传达了一个更勇敢的讯息：面临基因风险的女性应该觉得自己有权切除双乳，以此预防乳腺癌。朱莉周二透露，因为自己携带着一种致癌突变，她已经接受了双乳切除手术。
“She’s the biggest name of all, and I think given her prominence and her visibility not only as a famous person but also a beautiful actress, it’s going to carry a lot of weight for women,” said Barron H. Lerner, a medical historian and the author of “The Breast Cancer Wars.”
“她是个大名鼎鼎的人物，而且我觉得，考虑到她的知名度，以及她知名人物兼漂亮女演员的双重身份引来的关注，这将对女性产生重大影响，”医学史学家、《乳腺癌的战争》(The Breast Cancer Wars)一书的作者巴伦·H·勒纳(Barron H. Lerner)说。
Breast cancer experts and advocates applauded the manner in which Ms. Jolie explored her options and made informed decisions, saying it might influence some women with strong family histories of breast cancer to get genetic tests.
乳腺癌专家和倡导人士对朱莉探究可行选择并作出明智决定的做法表示称赞，称这可能会促使一些有明显乳腺癌家族病史的女性去接受基因检测。
But some doctors also expressed worry that her disclosure could be misinterpreted by other women, fueling the trend toward mastectomies that are not medically necessary for many early-stage breast cancers. In recent years, doctors have reported a virtual epidemic of preventive mastectomies among women who have cancer in one breast and decide to remove the healthy one as well, even though they do not have genetic mutations that increase their risk and their odds of a second breast cancer are very low.
不过，一些医生也表示了担忧，怕朱莉的这一举动被其他一些女性错误地解读，助长接受非必要乳房切除术的趋势，从医学角度而言，许多早期乳腺癌患者是不用接受乳房切除术的。近年来，医生已经报称，预防性的乳房切除术实际上很普遍，很多女性只有一侧乳房患癌，但却决定同时切除健康的乳房，尽管她们并没有携带会增加她们患病风险的基因突变，健康乳房患癌的几率也非常低。
Ms. Jolie wrote on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times that she had tested positive for a genetic mutation known as BRCA1, which left her with an exceedingly high risk for developing breast and ovarian cancer. Her mother died at 56 after nearly a decade with cancer, though Ms. Jolie did not specify which type. After genetic counseling, Ms. Jolie opted to have both breasts removed and to undergo reconstructive surgery.
朱莉在《纽约时报》的一篇观点文章中写道，她的BRCA1基因突变检测呈阳性，这使她患乳腺癌和卵巢癌的风险非常高。她的母亲同癌症抗争了近10年，最后在56岁时去世。不过，她没有具体说她母亲患的是哪一种癌症。在进行了基因方面的咨询后，她决定切除双乳，并接受乳房再造手术。
Ms. Jolie, 37, who declined to be interviewed for this article, was treated at the Pink Lotus Breast Center in Beverly Hills, Calif., a clinic opened in 2009 by Dr. Kristi Funk, identified on the Web site as a former director of patient education at the breast center at Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles.
37岁的朱莉拒绝就本文接受采访。她是在加利福尼亚州比弗利山的粉莲花乳科中心(Pink Lotus Breast Center)接受治疗的，这家诊所是克里斯蒂·芬克(Kristi Funk)博士2009年开设的。根据诊所网站的介绍，芬克曾是洛杉矶西达赛奈医院(Cedars-Sinai)乳科中心患者教育的负责人。
Her condition is rare. Mutations in BRCA1 and another gene called BRCA2 are estimated to cause only 5 percent to 10 percent of breast cancers and 10 percent to 15 percent of ovarian cancers among white women in the United States. The mutations are found in other racial and ethnic groups as well, but it is not known how common they are.
朱莉的情况很罕见。据估计，在美国白人女性中，BRCA1和另外一种名为BRCA2的基因发生突变导致的乳腺癌病例只占总数的5%至10%，导致的卵巢癌病例只占10%至15%。在其他人种和族群中也发现了这两种基因突变，但尚不清楚它们的普遍程度。
About 30 percent of women who are found to have BRCA mutations choose preventive mastectomies, said Dr. Kenneth Offit, chief of clinical genetics at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. Those who have seen family members die young from the disease are most likely to opt for the surgery.
纽约纪念斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心(Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center)临床遗传学负责人肯尼斯·奥菲特(Kenneth Offit)博士说，被发现携带BRCA突变的女性中，大约30%的人会选择接受预防性的乳房切除术。那些看到过家族成员因乳腺癌而早逝的人最有可能选择接受手术。
“It’s important to make it clear that a BRCA mutation is a special, high-risk situation,” said Dr. Monica Morrow, chief of the breast service at Memorial Sloan Kettering. For women at very high risk, preventive mastectomy makes sense, but few women fall into that category, she said.
“必须说明的是，BRCA突变是一种风险很高的特殊情况，”纪念斯隆-凯特琳癌症中心乳科负责人莫妮卡·莫洛(Monica Morrow)博士说。她表示，对发病几率很高的女性而言，接受预防性的乳房切除手术是明智的，但只有很少的女性属于这种情况。
For women’s health advocates, the trend toward double mastectomies in women who do not have mutations is frustrating. Studies in the 1970s and 1980s proved that for many patients, lumpectomy was as safe as mastectomy, and the findings were seen as a victory for women.
未携带突变的女性接受双乳切除手术的趋势让女性健康倡导者很沮丧。上世纪七、八十年代的研究证明，对许多患者而言，乳房病灶切除手术和乳房切除手术一样安全，这些研究结果曾被认为是女性的胜利。
Even so, there is increasing demand for mastectomy. Dr. Morrow says that she has often tried to talk patients out of it without success. Some imagine their risk of new or recurring cancer to be far higher than it really is. Others think that their breasts will match up better if both are removed and reconstructed.
即使这样，对乳房切除手术的需求仍在增加。莫洛博士称，她经常试图说服患者不要进行手术，但却徒劳无功。一些人把自己罹患或复发癌症的风险想得远远高于实际情况。其他一些人则认为，如果切除双乳并进行重造，她们的乳房会更匀称。
Ms. Jolie’s decision highlights the painful dilemma facing women with BRCA mutations.
朱莉的决定突显了携带BRCA突变的女性面临的痛苦困境。
“She is a special case, and you can completely understand why she did it,” said Dr. Susan Love, the author of a best-seller, “Dr. Susan Love’s Breast Book,” and a breast surgeon. “But what I hope that people realize is that we really don’t have good prevention for breast cancer. When you have to cut off normal body parts to prevent a disease, that’s really pretty barbaric when you think about it.”
畅销书《苏珊·洛夫医生的乳房护理书》(Dr. Susan Love’s Breast Book)的作者、乳房外科医生苏珊·洛夫(Susan Love)称，“她的情况比较特殊，你完全可以理解她为什么这么做。但是我希望人们能意识到，我们真的没有预防乳腺癌的好方法。如果非得通过切除健康的身体部分来预防疾病，想起来都很残忍。”
Women who carry BRCA mutations have, on average, about a 65 percent risk of eventually developing breast cancer, as opposed to a risk of about 12 percent for most women. For some mutation carriers, the risk may be higher; Ms. Jolie wrote that the estimate for her was 87 percent.
携带BRCA变异基因的女性最终罹患乳腺癌的平均几率约为65%，而大部分女性患此病的风险仅为12%左右。对一些携带变异基因的人来说，这个几率可能更高；朱莉写道，她患该病的几率估计为87%。
Because the BRCA mutations are rare and the test expensive — about $3,000 — it is not recommended for most women.
由于BRCA变异比较少见，而且检查费用较高，约为3000美元（约合1.84万元人民币），所以并不推荐大多数女性去做这种检查。
But for women with breast cancer who do have mutations, knowing their status can help them make further treatment decisions, such as whether to have an unaffected breast or their ovaries removed.
但是，对于那些确实携带变异的乳腺癌患者，了解自己的情况将能帮助她们选择进一步治疗的方案，比如是否要切除未染病的乳房或是摘除卵巢。
Women who should consider testing are those who have breast cancer before age 50; a family history of both breast and ovarian cancer; or many close relatives with breast cancer, especially if it developed before age 50. Any woman with ovarian cancer should consider being tested, as should Ashkenazi Jewish women with breast or ovarian cancer. Men with breast cancer and their families should also inquire about the possibility of a genetic predisposition to the disease.
需要考虑接受检查的女性包括那些不到50岁就患上乳腺癌的人；那些同时有乳腺癌和卵巢癌家族病史的人；以及很多近亲都患有乳腺癌的人，特别是在50岁之前就发病的。患有卵巢癌的女性都应该考虑去做检查，患有乳腺癌或卵巢癌的犹太女性也是一样。患有乳腺癌的男性及其家庭成员也应该咨询这种疾病遗传的可能性。
Because the cancer risks for carriers are so high, women with the mutations are often advised to have their breasts and ovaries removed as a preventive measure. It is generally considered safe to wait long enough to have children before having the ovaries removed, but the operation should be done by age 40, said Dr. Susan M. Domchek, an expert on cancer genetics at the University of Pennsylvania and the executive director of its Basser Research Center, which specializes in BRCA mutations. There is no reliable way to screen for ovarian cancer, and most cases are detected at a relatively late stage, when the disease is harder to treat and more likely to be fatal.
由于变异基因携带者的乳腺癌发病率很高，医生经常建议这类女性采取预防措施，切除乳房和卵巢。宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)乳腺癌和卵巢癌基因学专家苏珊·M·多姆切克(Susan M. Domchek)称，一般来说，可以等到生完孩子后再切除卵巢，这是安全的，但这种手术必须在40岁以前做。多姆切克还是主要研究BRCA变异的巴瑟尔研究中心(Basser Research Center)的执行主任。目前并没有检测卵巢癌的可靠方法，大多数病例都是在病程较晚的时候才查出来的，到那个时候，这种病就比较难治，而且更容易致命。
Ms. Jolie said that she herself had a 50 percent risk of ovarian cancer. “I started with the breasts, as my risk of breast cancer is higher than my risk of ovarian cancer, and the surgery is more complex,” she wrote.
朱莉称，她自己患上卵巢癌的几率是50%。她写道，“我先从乳房开始，因为我患乳腺癌的几率比卵巢癌高，而且这个手术更复杂。”
Removing the breasts is not the only option, Dr. Domchek said. Some women with BRCA mutations choose close monitoring with mammograms and M.R.I. scans once a year, staggered so that they have one scan or the other every six months. Those tests t offer a chance to find cancer early.
多姆切克称，切除乳房并不是唯一的选择。一些携带BRCA变异基因的女性本来选择一年做一次可以密切观察的钼靶检查和核磁共振成像扫描，如今则在震惊之下改为每六个月就做一次检查或者是扫描。这些检查可以提供尽早发现癌症的机会。
For some women, certain drugs can lower the risk of breast cancer, but not as much as preventive mastectomy.
对一些女性来说，某些药物可以降低患乳腺癌的风险，效果但却比不上预防性的切除手术。
It is also possible for women who are mutation carriers to avoid passing the gene to their children, by undergoing in vitro fertilization and having embryos screened for BRCA genes. Then, only embryos free of mutations can be implanted.
此外，携带变异基因的女性仍有可能避免将该基因遗传给下一代，方法是体外受精，并对胚胎进行BRCA基因过滤。之后，只将不携带变异基因的胚胎植入体内。
Ms. Jolie’s celebrity and her roles as a mother of six and a movie star who plays strong women, including the swashbuckling archaeologist Lara Croft, may give her decision far-reaching impact.
朱莉大名鼎鼎，还是六个孩子的母亲，作为影星又饰演过武艺高强的考古学家罗拉·克劳福特(Lara Croft)等坚强女性，这些事实都可能会让她的决定产生很大的影响力。
Dr. Isabelle Bedrosian, a surgical oncologist at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, has been a vocal critic of the trend toward double mastectomy among women who are not at high genetic risk. However, she hopes the decision by Ms. Jolie will focus women on the value of genetic counseling and making informed decisions.
对于基因风险不高的女性进行双乳切除手术的趋势，位于休斯顿的MD安德森癌症中心(M. D. Anderson Cancer Center)的外科医师伊莎贝尔·贝德罗西安(Isabelle Bedrosian)一直表示反对。然而，她希望朱莉的决定能让女性关注遗传咨询的价值，并在充分了解情况之后作出决定。
“I think there is an important upside to the story, and that is that women will hopefully be more curious about their family history,” Dr. Bedrosian said. “We need to be careful that one message does not apply to all. Angelina’s situation is very unique. People should not be quick to say ‘I should do like she did,’ because you may not be like her.”
贝德罗西安称，“我认为这件事有一个很重要的正面作用，也就是女性可能会因此更加关注自己的家族病史。我们需要保持谨慎，因为单一的讯息并不适用于所有的人。安吉丽娜的情况十分特殊。人们不应该急于宣称，‘我也应该像她那样做’，因为你的情况可能和她不同。”