As the video begins, a cheerful young man in a rumpled shirt and tie lays down the challenge: “Can I make some fully automatic adamantium claws?”
在视频的开头，一个穿着皱皱巴巴的衬衫、系着领带、兴高采烈的年轻男子说出了挑战的内容：“我能不能制造出全自动的金刚利爪？”
It might seem an odd question to some — but not to fans of the X-Men comic books and films. Soon, with rock guitars blaring, he’s running around a workshop, equipped with a backpack and two homemade metal contraptions strapped to his arms. He holds up his fists to the camera, and sure enough, six sharp metal claws shoot from the tops of his hands: He is Wolverine!
对有些人来，这说可能是个奇怪的问题，但《X战警》(X-Men)漫画和电影的爱好者除外。随后，在刺耳的摇滚吉他声中，这个年轻人在一个工作室里跑来跑去，背着背包，胳膊上绑着两个自制金属机械装置。他对着摄像机举起了拳头，毫无疑问，六根锋利的金属爪正沿着他的手背伸出来：他变成了金刚狼！
This is perhaps one of the tamer scenes in a series of videos by Colin Furze, a garage inventor and do-it-yourself daredevil in Stamford, England. With more than 500,000 subscribers on YouTube, Mr. Furze, who is 34, has found an online following for his radical — and sometimes dangerous — backyard inventions, which include the world’s longest motorbike and a scooter that shoots fire from its back end. (That one got him arrested.)
这可能是柯林·弗兹(Colin Furze)的视频系列中比较平淡的一个。弗兹是英格兰斯坦福德的一个车库发明家和DIY勇士。凭借着YouTube上逾50万个订阅者，现年34岁的弗兹已经在网上为自己极端——有时危险——的业余发明找到了拥趸。他的发明包括世界上最长的摩托车，以及一辆尾部可以喷射火焰的小轮摩托车（这个发明曾使他遭到逮捕）。
Despite his penchant for such technical feats, Mr. Furze is no certified engineer. In fact, he didn’t even finish school; he dropped out at 16 to became a plumber.
尽管热爱技术发明，弗兹并不是一个认证工程师。事实上，他没念过多少书，16岁就辍学，成了一名水暖工。
While living with his parents, he said, he experimented with metalworking, but he didn’t have the resources to really test the limits of his imagination.
他说，和父母住在一起的时候，他曾经尝试玩金属工艺，但却没有足够的资源去真正挑战自己的想象力极限。
“While my dad had a massive shed, I wasn’t actually allowed in it, so everything I’d come up with I had to make in my bedroom,” Mr. Furze said in an interview. “I mean, I had a lathe in there at one point, which was a terrible idea, really.”
“尽管我父亲有一个很大的工作棚，却不允许我入内，所以无论我有什么想法，我都得在卧室里进行，”弗兹一次接受采访时说。“我是说，我有阵子在卧室里弄了一个车床，那真是一个糟糕的主意。”
After his father died in 2007, Mr. Furze took over the shed — and the array of power tools it held. It wasn’t long before he was tinkering with bikes and electric motors, filming his creative processes along the way.
2007年父亲去世后，弗兹占据了这个工作棚——以及里面的各种电动工具。没过多久，他就开始摆弄摩托车和电动车，并把自己的创造过程拍摄下来。
Since then, his inventions have helped him set five Guinness world records, one for the world’s fastest mobility scooter (it houses the engine of a 1997 CR125 motocross bike and has a top speed of 82.5 miles per hour).
此后，他的发明帮他创下了五项吉尼斯世界记录，其中一项是世界上最快的代步车（它拥有1997年CR125摩托越野车的引擎，最高时速82.5英里）。
But his most recent projects — harnessing the powers of the X-Men superheroes — that made him a YouTube star.
而让他成为YouTube明星的，是最近的一些项目——拥有《X战警》超级英雄们的能力。
“Sometimes you’ll come out of a film, and you think, ‘Wouldn’t it be awesome to have that thing or to do that thing?’ ” he said.  “With ‘Back to the Future,’ it’s hover boards and time travel; with ‘X-Men,’ it’s obviously claws and super powers.” Along with Wolverine’s retractable claws, he’s also recreated the abilities of the fire-bender Pyro, designing wearable cuffs that shoot out flames with two flicks of his wrists. With one cuff rigged to a propane gas tank in a backpack, and the other serving as a pilot light, he can ignite a stream of fire up to 12 feet long.
“有时候，你看完一场电影出来，心里想，‘如果有电影里的那种东西，或者可以办到电影里的那种事，岂不是很爽？’”他说。“在《回到未来》(Back to the Future)里，那就是悬浮滑板和时空旅行；《X战警》里显然是金刚狼的爪子和超能力。“他在制作可伸缩的金刚狼爪时，还重新打造了火人(Pyro)的喷火器，为其设计了可穿脱的袖口，手腕抖动两下就可以喷出火焰。把一个袖口连接到背包里的丙烷气罐，另一个用作指示灯，可以喷射出最长12英尺（约3.65米）的火焰。
For Wolverine’s claws, Mr. Furze said, the process was mostly a matter of trial and error, positioning the stainless steel blades on his arms to see what made the best fit. To get them to deploy and retract, he created a system of valves connected to an air tank in a backpack; when he clenches his fists to press buttons tucked into his palms, the valves use pressurized air to push and pull the claws smoothly in and out of their metal casings.
在谈到金刚狼爪的制作时，弗兹说这主要是一个试错的过程，即把不锈钢刀片定位在他的手臂上，看看怎样最合适。为了让爪子伸出和收起，他做了一套阀门系统，连接到背包的一个空气罐里；当他握紧拳头，按压手心里的按钮时，阀门就利用压缩空气，让爪子从金属外壳中流畅地伸出或缩回。
In his most recent and most gravity-defying X-Men project, Mr. Furze set out to make “Magneto shoes” — magnetic boots he used to walk on the ceiling of his workshop. He got old microwave ovens from a scrapyard and removed their magnetic coils, running a current through them to make electromagnets strong enough to hold his body weight. Then he strapped the magnets to a pair of old Vans shoes, and voilà — he was soon hanging upside down like a bat from a metal strip bolted to the ceiling.
弗兹最近的、也是最“反地心引力”的《X战警》项目，是制作“万磁王鞋子”——他用这双鞋子在自己工作室的天花板上行走。他从废料场收来一些老旧微波炉，拆下磁性线圈，给它们通电，让电磁铁的磁力大到足以承受他的体重。然后他把磁铁绑在一双旧的范斯(Vans)鞋上，瞧——他很快像只蝙蝠一样，倒挂在天花板上用螺栓固定的金属条上了。
Mr. Furze has critics as well as fans; some have complained that his creations are too dangerous for the average person to attempt. But overall, he said, the feedback has been enormously positive — from novices and engineers alike.
弗兹既有粉丝，也有批评者；一些人抱怨说，对于一般人而言，他的作品太危险了，很难去尝试。但总体而言，他说，反馈都是极为正面的——这些作品得到了菜鸟和工程师的一致好评。