LONDON — It is not a great idea to carry a plank of wood down a busy sidewalk. Nor should you ride a horse while drunk, or handle a salmon under suspicious circumstances.
伦敦——在繁忙的人行道上携带一块木板并不是个好主意。你也不应该在喝醉时骑马，也不能在可疑的情形下处理三文鱼。
But should such antics be illegal? Still?
但时至今日，法律还应该禁止这些古怪的举动吗？
Thanks to centuries of legislating by Parliament, which bans the wearing of suits of armor in its chambers, Britain has accumulated many laws that nowadays seem irrelevant, and often absurd.
由于议会几个世纪以来的立法，英国积累了许多如今看起来无关紧要且通常十分荒谬的法律，其中包括禁止在其议事厅里穿盔甲。
So voluminous and eccentric is Britain’s collective body of 44,000 pieces of primary legislation that it has a small team of officials whose sole task is to prune it.
英国4.4万部主体法例的集合体极其庞大而又古怪，以至于英国委派了一个小型官员团队，其唯一任务便是对法律进行精简。
Their work is not just a constitutional curiosity, but a bulwark against hundreds of years of lawmaking running out of control.
他们的工作不仅是钻研宪法性的掌故奇闻，还有抵御几百年来失控的立法。
Over the centuries, rules have piled up to penalize those who fire a cannon within 300 yards of a dwelling and those who beat a carpet in the street — unless the item can be classified as a doormat and it is beaten before 8 a.m.
几个世纪以来，法例越积越多，那些在距离住所不足300码的地方开炮的人，以及那些在街上拍打地毯的人都该受到惩罚——除非地毯可以归类为门垫，且在早晨8点前拍打。
“To have a legal situation where there is so much information that you cannot sit down and comprehend it, does seem to me a serious problem,” said Andrew Lewis, professor emeritus of comparative legal history at University College London. “I think it matters dreadfully that no one can get a handle on the whole of it.”
“法律现状中太多你坐下来研读，都无法理解的信息，在我看来这的确像是一个严峻的问题，”伦敦大学学院(University College London)比较法制史荣休教授安德鲁·刘易斯(Andrew Lewis)说道。“我认为这极其重要，没有人能理解整体的状况。”
Yet, as Professor Lewis also noted, many old laws have survived because crime and bad behavior have, too.
然而刘易斯教授还指出，也有许多旧的法例沿用下来，因为犯罪和不良行为依然存在。
“One reason is that human nature doesn’t change much,” Professor Lewis said, “though of course the institutions which we develop to protect, organize, and govern ourselves do change, and then it becomes necessary to adjust the existing law to practice.”
“原因之一是，人性并没有改变多少，”刘易斯说道，“不过我们为了保护、组织和管理自己，而制订出来的制度当然在改变，因此有必要调整现行的法律实践。”
Sifting out the obsolete legislation is the work of two lawyers and a researcher at Britain’s Law Commission, which is responsible for reviewing laws and recommending changes.
淘汰过时的法律是英国法律委员会(Law Commission)的两位律师和一位学者的工作，该委员会负责审阅法律，并提出修订意见。
Thanks to them, more than 200 measures are scheduled to be repealed next year, including some — but not all — of a law dating to 1267.
多亏了他们，200多项法案预计将于明年废除，包括部分——但非全部——自1267年起开始实施的法律。
Among those set to go are many church laws (including one from a 1536 act authorizing the extension of a London graveyard), and a variety of acts related to British colonial rule in India. These include the India Steam Ship Company Act of 1838, which has been in force for 177 years, although there is no evidence that the shipping firm established through the act ever started work.
这些即将废除的法律包括许多教会法（包括一项源自1536年、授权伦敦一座墓地扩大的法案），以及多项与英国对印度的殖民统治相关的法案。这其中就包括1838年的《印度轮船公司法》(India Steam Ship Company Act)，尽管已经生效177年，但没有证据表明通过该法案成立的船运公司曾开张经营过。
So extensive is the statute book that the Law Commission has published a guide debunking some more far-fetched urban myths about it.
法律文本的整体规模过于庞大，以至于法律委员会发布了一份指南，反驳了一些比较牵强的都市传说。
The commission has found no evidence, for example, of any law stating that in the city of Liverpool, it is illegal for a woman to be topless in public except while working as a clerk in a tropical fish store.
例如，委员会没有发现任何证据，表明有任何法律规定妇女在利物浦市的公共场所袒露上身是违法行为，在热带鱼商店担任店员的除外。
Nor is it true that a man may urinate in public, providing he does so against the rear-passenger-side wheel of his vehicle, with his right hand placed upon it.
只要背靠汽车后轮并将右手置于其上，男性即可在公共场所小便——这也并不是真的。
Some of the actual laws, however antiquated they may seem, have proved surprisingly durable.
一些真实存在的法律，尽管看起来极为陈旧，实际上效力却惊人地持久。
Though some elements of the 1267 Statute of Marlborough are set to be repealed next year, others, including one relating to the seizure of goods to satisfy debts, will remain. This piece of legislation predates the incorporation into law of Magna Carta (which was signed in 1215 but which was not enrolled on the statute book until 1297).
尽管1267年《马尔伯勒法》(Statute of Marlborough)的某些部分将于明年废除，但其他部分将会保留，包括一项与扣押商品抵偿债务相关的规定。这项立法纳入法律文本要早于《大宪章》(Magna Carta)，尽管后者是在1215年签署的，但直到1297年才纳入法律。
Another medieval act, Quia Emptores, which was passed in 1290, also established important principles for English property law.
另一部中世纪法案，即1290年颁布的《封地买卖法》(Quia Emptores)，也为英国的物权法确立了重要原则。
Before any repeal is proposed to Parliament, the law is thoroughly researched and discussed, said Elaine Lorimer, chief executive of the Law Commission.
在向议会提出任何废除建议前，法律先要经过彻底的研究和讨论，法律委员会行政负责人伊莱恩·洛里默(Elaine Lorimer)说。
“Just the age of the legislation isn’t a determining factor,” she said. “The research has got to be done to make sure that actually this is no longer required.”
“立法的历史长短不是唯一的决定因素，”她说。“我们必须要做出研究，确保它实际上不再必要了。”
According to Professor Lewis, the legislative pileup is explained partly by the fact that Britain, unlike many countries, has chosen not to codify its laws, leading to an accumulation of piecemeal legislation.
刘易斯表示，法律堆积的部分原因在于英国的现实，和许多国家不同，英国选择不将法律文本编为法典，这导致了零星法规的堆砌。
The big spike in British lawmaking came in the 19th and 20th centuries, he said. And Britain’s history of court judgments has established lengthy legal precedents that are often more important than the legislation itself.
他说，英国立法剧增发生于19世纪和20世纪。英国的法院判决历史已经建立起冗长的判例，这些往往比法条本身更重要。
In recent years, about 25 bills typicallybecome law, more during the early, and most energetic, phase of a new government.
近年来，通常会有大约25个议案成为法律，在新政府上台初期、最有活力的阶段则更多。
“In the eyes of the public, the major rationale of Parliament appears to be to pass legislation,” Professor Lewis said.
刘易斯说，“在公众看来，议会的主要意义似乎就是通过法律。”
That means that those trying to slim the statute book are “playing catch-up all the time,” said Ms. Lorimer, the law commission’s chief.
这意味着那些试图精简法律文本的人“一直都在迎头追赶”，法律委员会负责人洛里默女士说道。