Sven Olaf Kamphuis calls himself the “minister of telecommunications and foreign affairs for the Republic of CyberBunker.” Others see him as the Prince of Spam.
斯文·奥拉夫·坎普赫伊斯(Sven Olaf Kamphuis)自称为“网络碉堡(CyberBunker)共和国电信和外交部长”。其他人则视他为“垃圾邮件王子”。
Mr. Kamphuis, who is actually Dutch, is at the heart of an international investigation into one of the biggest cyberattacks identified by authorities. He has not been charged with any crime and he denies direct involvement. But because of his outspoken position in a loose federation of hackers, authorities in the Netherlands and several other countries are examining what role he or the Internet companies he runs played in snarling traffic on the Web this week.
坎普赫伊斯实际上是荷兰人，正处于一场国际调查的中心，该调查所针对的一起网络攻击已被当局确认为有史以来最大的此类攻击之一。他尚未以任何罪名被起诉，也否认自己直接参与了攻击。但由于他在一个松散的黑客联盟中高调直言的表现，荷兰和其他几个国家的政府正在考察，他或他经营的网络公司在本周阻塞网络交通事件中所扮演的角色。
He describes himself in his own Web postings as an Internet freedom fighter, along the lines of Julian Assange of WikiLeaks, with political views that range from eccentric to offensive. His likes: German heavy metal music, “Beavis and Butt-head” and the campaign to legalize medicinal marijuana. His dislikes: Jews, Luddites and authority.
在他发的帖子中，他把自己称为互联网自由斗士，类似于维基解密(WikiLeaks)的朱利安·阿桑奇(Julian Assange)，他的政治观点各式各样，有古怪的、也有带攻击性的。他的兴趣有：德国重金属音乐、《瘪四与大头蛋》(Beavis and Butt-head)和药用大麻合法化运动。他讨厌的有：犹太人、路德分子(Luddites)和政府当局。
Dutch computer security experts and former associates describe Mr. Kamphuis as a loner with brilliant programming skills. He did not respond to various requests for interviews, but he has communicated with the public through his Facebook page, which includes photos of himself, a thin, angular man with close-cropped hair and dark, bushy eyebrows, often wearing a hoodie sweatshirt.
荷兰电脑安全专家和以前的同事把坎普赫伊斯描述为一名有着优秀编程技巧的不合群者。他对各种采访要求不予回应，但他通过自己的Facebook页面与公众进行沟通，其中有他自己的照片——一个瘦骨嶙峋的男人，头发很短、眉毛浓黑，通常穿一件连帽运动衫。
“He’s like a loose cannon,” said Erik Bais, the owner of A2B-Internet, an Internet service provider that used to work with Mr. Kamphuis’s company, but severed ties two years ago. “He has no regard for repercussions or collateral damage.”
网络服务提供商A2B-Internet的老板埃里克·贝(Erik Bais)曾与坎普赫伊斯的公司合作过，但在两年前断绝了关系。他说，“他是一意孤行的危险人物，不考虑后果或连带的损害。”
Mr. Kamphuis’s current nemesis is Spamhaus, a group based in Geneva that fights Internet spam by publishing blacklists of alleged offenders. Clients of Spamhaus use the information to block annoying e-mails offering discount Viagra or financial windfalls. But Mr. Kamphuis and other critics call Spamhaus a censor that judges what is or isn’t spam. Spamhaus acted, he wrote, “without any court verdict, just by blackmail of suppliers and Jew lies.”
坎普赫伊斯当前的对手是Spamhaus，该组织位于日内瓦，主要打击网络垃圾邮件，其手段是发布涉嫌违规者的黑名单。Spamhaus的客户利用这些信息来屏蔽推销打折伟哥或金融横财之类恼人的电子邮件。但坎普赫伊斯和其他批评人士称Spamhaus为审查员，自行判断垃圾邮件的标准。他写道，Spamhaus的行为“没有任何法院判决作为依据，只不过是胁迫垃圾邮件提供者和说犹太人的谎言”。
The spat that rocked the Internet escalated in mid-March when Spamhaus blacklisted two companies that Mr. Kamphuis runs, CB3ROB, an Internet service provider, and CyberBunker, a Web hosting service. Spamhaus contended that CyberBunker was a conduit for vast amounts of spam. CyberBunker says it accepts business from any site as long as it does not deal in “child porn nor anything related to terrorism.”
这场震惊互联网的纠纷在3月中旬升级，当时Spamhaus把两家坎普赫伊斯经营的公司列入了黑名单，网络服务提供商CB3ROB，和网络托管服务商网络碉堡。Spamhaus称网络碉堡带来了大量的垃圾邮件。而网络碉堡称它做任何网站的生意，只要不涉及“儿童色情或与恐怖分子相关的任何事情”。
Mr. Kamphuis responded by soliciting support for a hackers’ campaign to snarl Spamhaus’s Internet operations. “Yo anons, we could use a little help in shutting down illegal slander and blackmail censorship project ‘spamhaus.org,’ which thinks it can dictate its views on what should and should not be on the Internet,” he wrote on Facebook on March 23.
坎普赫伊斯的回应是请求一个黑客组织的支持，来干扰Spamhaus的网络运营。他于3月23日在Facebook上写道，“唷，无名氏们，我们希望得到一点帮助，来关闭非法诽谤和勒索审查的项目spamhaus.org，这个网站觉得自己可以发号施令，来决定什么应该出现在网上，什么不应该。”
Mr. Kamphuis later disavowed any direct role in the so-called distributed denial of service, or DDoS, attack, which spilled over from Spamhaus to affect other sites. He took to Facebook to inform the world that the flood of Internet traffic that threatened to cripple parts of the Web emanated from Stophaus, an ad-hoc, amorphous group set up in January with the aim to thwart Spamhaus, a company it claims uses its “tiny business to attempt to control the Internet through underhanded extortion tactics.”
坎普赫伊斯随后否认直接参与了那场所谓的分布式拒绝服务（distributed denial of service，简称DDoS）攻击，该攻击除了打击Spamhaus，还波及了其他网站。他通过Facebook告诉世界说，能令互联网部分瘫痪的、大量的数据流量来自Stophaus，这是一家于1月成立的松散的组织，目标就是为了阻扰Spamhaus。他说Spamhaus是一家利用其“小生意，通过不可告人的勒索战术，来试图控制互联网”的公司。
Mr. Kamphuis said Stophaus was not a front for him; he is merely acting as a spokesman.
坎普赫伊斯说，Stophaus并不是他的地盘；他只是一个发言人而已。
Nonetheless, the authorities are curious. The Dutch national prosecutor’s office said on Thursday that it had opened an investigation. Wim de Bruin, a spokesman for the agency, which is based in Rotterdam, said prosecutors were first trying to determine whether the DDoS attacks had originated in the Netherlands. Authorities in Britain and several other European countries are also looking into the matter.
尽管如此，政府还是很好奇。周四，荷兰全国检察官办公室称，已对此展开调查。这家机构位于鹿特丹，他的发言人维姆·德布鲁因(Wim de Bruin)说，检察官首先正在试图查清DDoS的攻击源是否在荷兰。英国及其他几个欧洲国家的政府也在调查此事。
Mr. Kamphuis, who is believed to be about 35, is singled out because of his vocal role. “For the Dutch Internet community, it’s very clear that he has a big role in this, even if there isn’t 100 percent airtight proof that he is behind it,” said J. P. Velders, a security specialist at the University of Amsterdam. “He could not be not involved. How much is he involved — that is for law enforcement to figure out and to act upon.”
据信，坎普赫伊斯大约35岁，由于高调的表现而受到特别关注。“对荷兰网络社区来说，很明显他在整个事件中扮演了重要角色，即使没有100%无懈可击的证据来证明他就是幕后黑手，”阿姆斯特丹大学(University of Amsterdam)安全专家J·P·费尔德尔斯(J. P. Velders)说，“他不可能没有参与。而他到底参与了多少——这是执法部门要调查并处理的问题。”
Greenhost, a Dutch Internet hosting service, said in a detailed blog post that it had found the digital fingerprints of CB3ROB when it examined the rogue traffic that had been directed at Spamhaus.
荷兰网络主机服务提供商Greenhost在一篇颇为详尽的博客文章中写道，公司在检查此前导向Spamhaus的恶性流量时，发现了CB3ROB的数字印记。
Mr. Kamphuis created CB3ROB in 1996 and helped set up CyberBunker in 1999. From 1999 to 2001, he worked on the help desk at a Dutch Internet service provider, XS4ALL, according to one senior manager at the company who declined to be named, citing company policy. One co-worker said Mr. Kamphuis was constantly being reprimanded for hacking into his employer’s computer system. He was known for eccentric behavior; during a company trip to Berlin, the former co-worker said, Mr. Kamphuis refused to travel with his colleagues and rode alone in a bus.
1996年，坎普赫伊斯创立了CB3ROB，并在1999年帮助了建立了网络碉堡。而据荷兰网络服务提供商XS4ALL一位高级经理称，1999年到2001年间，坎普赫伊斯在该公司的技术支持台工作，但该经理援引公司政策，拒绝具名。坎普赫伊斯的一位同事称，他经常因侵入雇主的电脑系统而遭到批评。而且他以行为古怪著称；这位前同事称，在公司集体去柏林旅行时，坎普赫伊斯拒绝和同事一起走，而是选择自己坐大巴去。
“Sven absolutely hates authority in any form,” this person said. “He was very smart. Too smart for customers, by the way. Oftentimes they couldn’t understand his technobabble when he tried to help them.”
“斯文绝对憎恨任何形式的权威，”该前同事说，“他非常聪明。顺便说一下，对于顾客来说，他有点太聪明了。在他试图帮助顾客时，他们经常不能理解他晦涩的技术术语。”
For a time, CyberBunker’s clients included WikiLeaks and The Pirate Bay, a Web site whose founders were convicted by a Swedish court in 2009 of abetting movie and music piracy. In May 2010, six American entertainment companies obtained a preliminary injunction in a German court ordering CB3ROB and CyberBunker to stop providing bandwidth to The Pirate Bay.
有一段时间，维基解密和海盗湾(The Pirate Bay)也是网络碉堡的客户。海盗湾是一个网站，2009年，瑞典一家法院判定其创立者教唆盗版电影和音乐的行为。2010年5月，六家美国娱乐公司从德国一家法院获得了一个预先禁令，要求CB3ROB和网络碉堡停止向海盗湾提供带宽。