MOSCOW — Pro-Russian separatist leaders in the eastern Ukrainian region of Luhansk have blocked access to Dutch law enforcement officials pursuing an investigation into the downing of a Malaysian jetliner nearly a year ago, the Netherlands Public Prosecution Office said on Saturday.
莫斯科——乌克兰东部卢甘斯克地区亲俄罗斯的分裂势力在近一年前马来西亚客机坠落之后，一直阻挠荷兰执法官员开展调查，荷兰公共检察署(Public Prosecution Office)周六表示。
The obstruction by separatist officials prompted the investigators, from the Dutch National Police and Ministry of Defense, to cut short their field work in Ukraine without conducting research into cellphone towers and cellular networks in the region, the public prosecution office said.
公共检察署透露，由于受到分裂势力官员的阻挠，荷兰国家警察和国防部派出的调查人员缩短了在乌克兰的实地勘察，没有对事发区域的手机基站和移动通信网络进行研究。
The passenger jet, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, was shot down on July 17 as it flew over the war zone in eastern Ukraine during a journey from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, killing all 298 people on board, including 196 Dutch citizens.
失事客机系马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH17航班，去年7月17日，该航班从阿姆斯特丹飞往吉隆坡途中，飞越乌克兰东部交战区域上空时被击落。机上全部298人遇难，其中包括196名荷兰公民。
Based on preliminary analysis and intelligence, including from the United States government, the aircraft was widely believed to have been destroyed by a surface-to-air missile fired from territory controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces.
根据初步分析和情报，人们广泛认为，摧毁飞机的地对空导弹是从俄罗斯支持的分裂武装控制的区域射出的。这些情报中包括美国提供的信息。
The separatist groups, however, strongly deny that they had anything to do with the crash, and the Russian government has sought to provide evidence that the plane was fired upon by a Ukrainian jet fighter.
然而分裂组织强烈否认他们与飞机坠毁有任何关系，俄罗斯政府还曾试图提供证据，表明客机是被乌克兰战斗机击落的。
And on Friday, a senior Russian official said the Kremlin would oppose a plan by Malaysia calling on the United Nations Security Council to create a tribunal to try suspects in the downing of the jetliner. Calling the idea “ill-timed and counterproductive,” Gennady Gatilov, a deputy foreign minister, told Russian news agencies, “We need to wait for the end of the investigation, not adopt hasty resolutions on the creation of tribunals.”
马来西亚已呼吁联合国安理会设立特别法庭，对涉嫌击落客机的嫌疑人进行审判。周五，一名俄罗斯高官透露，克里姆林宫将对此予以反对。俄罗斯副外长根纳季·加季洛夫(Gennady Gatilov)对俄罗斯新闻媒体表示，这个设想“时机不巧，而且会产生负面效果”。他说，“我们需要等待调查结束，而不应该仓促颁布决议，设置特别法庭。”
An official international inquiry into the cause, which is being led by the Dutch aviation safety agency, has not made any official determination.
针对坠机原因开展的正式国际调查，尚未给出任何官方的结论。该调查是由荷兰飞行安全部门牵头的。
A preliminary report issued in September found that the aircraft had experienced no technical difficulties and had made no distress call, while wreckage of the plane indicated that it was destroyed after being hit by high-energy projectiles that ripped it apart in midair. Although the report did not say so, that kind of damage is consistent with a missile attack.
去年9月发布的一份初步报告认定，飞机没有发生技术故障，也没有发出呼救信号，而飞机残骸显示，飞机是在被高能量的投射物击中并在空中解体后损毁的。尽管报告中并未明确写出，但这种损坏情况与导弹袭击相吻合。
The destruction of the plane sharply focused international attention on the worsening violence in Ukraine, and briefly put Russia under intense pressure over its role in the conflict, amid suspicions that it had supplied the missile system.
飞机被摧毁后，国际社会对乌克兰日益加剧的暴力冲突给予了密切关注，还曾因为俄罗斯在冲突中扮演的角色，而向它施加了强烈的压力。国际社会怀疑导弹系统是俄罗斯提供的。
But as the first anniversary of the disaster approaches, Dutch officials have expressed mounting concern over the lack of progress in determining the precise cause and in identifying those responsible, a likely reflection of intensifying political pressure, including from families of the victims.
然而随着飞机失事一周年纪念的临近，在确定准确原因和责任人方面进展仍然迟缓，荷兰官员对此表达了日益强烈的担忧。他们的态度可能反映了与日俱增的政治压力，包括来自遇难者亲属的压力。
The criminal investigation is being carried out separately from the safety investigation. The Dutch officials spent about two weeks in eastern Ukraine, mostly at the crash site in the region of Donetsk, which is also largely controlled by pro-Russian separatist forces. The investigators ended their work on Saturday after concluding they could proceed no further.
刑事调查与飞行安全部门开展的调查是分别进行的。荷兰官员在乌克兰东部大概待了两周时间，主要在顿涅茨克地区的坠毁地点附近活动，那里也基本是由亲俄分裂武装控制。调查人员在断定他们无法继续开展调查后，于周六结束了工作。
In Donetsk, however, investigators received greater cooperation from officials of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic, the Dutch prosecution office said in its statement on Saturday.
不过荷兰检察署在周六的声明中说，调查人员在顿涅茨克得到了当地自行宣布成立的顿涅茨克人民共和国更多的配合。
Investigators were also aided by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which is monitoring the conflict zone.
调查人员也得到了欧洲安全与合作组织(Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe)的协助。目前，欧安组织正在监控这一冲突区域。
“The most important goals of the mission were in this region,” the prosecution office said. “Ground samples have been taken at various locations and technical research has been conducted to locate cell towers and check the working of the eastern Ukrainian telephone network. The information that has been collected during the mission will be examined and analyzed in the Netherlands.”
“调查任务最重要的目标是在该地区完成的，”检察署说道。“我们在不同地点采集了地面样本，也进行了技术调查，从而确定基站的位置、检察乌克兰东部电话网络的运行。调查期间搜集的信息将会在荷兰进行检查和分析。”
Efforts to conduct a similar inquiry into cellphone towers in Luhansk were stymied, the prosecution office said.
检察署表示，在卢甘斯克对移动通信基站开展类似调查的努力受到了阻挠。
“The mission was also aimed at technical research into cell towers and telephone network in the Luhansk area,” the statement added. “This has until now not succeeded, as representatives of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People’s Republic in talks with the O.S.C.E. until now have refused access to the Luhansk area.”
“调查人员也打算在卢甘斯克地区，对移动通信基站和电话网络进行技术研究，”声明中说。“到目前为止，这一目标都未取得成功，因为在自行宣布成立的卢甘斯克人民共和国，负责与欧安组织沟通的代表，时至今日都不允许我们进入卢甘斯克地区。”
Cellphone communications could be integral to the investigation because Ukrainian intelligence services said they had intercepted telephone conversations in which separatist commanders discussed the shooting down of a plane — apparently believing their forces had just destroyed a Ukrainian military jet.
手机通信对调查可能是不可或缺的，因为乌克兰情报机构称，在被它们截获的电话通话中，分离势力指挥官讨论了一架飞机被击落的事情——他们似乎认为自己的部队刚刚摧毁了一架乌克兰军机。
One Western official with close knowledge of the work in eastern Ukraine said that the investigators were ill-advised in trying to conduct an inquiry amid continued sporadic fighting. “I think they were extremely naïve to go back there and launch a criminal investigation in one of the most open and dangerous crime scenes in the world,” the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because of the delicate politics of the inquiry.
一名熟悉乌克兰东部的调查工作的西方官员称，在零星战斗仍在持续期间，调查人员试图进行调查是不明智的。“我觉得他们前往那里，在堪称全世界最开放、最危险的犯罪现场展开犯罪调查是非常不现实的，”因为调查涉及敏感的政治问题而要求匿名的这名官员说。
This month, the Dutch foreign minister, Bert Koenders, visited Moscow, where he discussed the inquiries with his Russian counterpart, Sergey V. Lavrov.
本月，荷兰外交大臣贝尔特·孔德尔斯(Bert Koenders)访问了莫斯科，并在那里同俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)讨论了调查事宜。