At a party not long ago in Park Slope, Brooklyn, Kaitlin, a 22-year-old senior at Columbia University, was recalling the first time she was offered a drug called Molly, at the elegant Brooklyn home of a cultural figure she admired. “She was, like, 50, and she had been written about in the Talk of the Town,” said Kaitlin, who was wearing black skinny jeans and a tank top. “This woman was very smart and impressive.”
不久前在布鲁克林公园坡(Park Slope)的一个派对上，哥伦比亚大学22岁的大四学生凯特琳(Kaitlin)回忆起第一次有人给她一种名叫莫利(Molly)的毒品时的情形。当时她在自己敬仰的一位文化人物位于布鲁克林的优雅的家里。“她大约50岁，是‘街谈巷议’（Talk of the Town,《纽约客》杂志的一个栏目）栏目的撰稿人，”凯特琳说。她穿着黑色紧身牛仔裤和背心。“这个女人非常聪明，令人钦佩。”
At one point, the hostess pulled Kaitlin aside and asked if she had ever tried the drug, which is said to be pure MDMA, the ingredient typically combined with other substances in Ecstasy pills. “She said that it wasn’t cut with anything and that I had nothing to worry about,” said Kaitlin, who declined to give her last name because she is applying for jobs and does not want her association with the drug to scare off potential employers. “And then everyone at the party took it.”
其间，女主人把凯特琳拉到一边，问她有没有试过那种毒品。据说它完全是用二亚甲基双氧苯丙胺(MDMA)做成的，摇头丸通常是用这种成分跟其他物质合成。“她说它不含任何其它成分，我完全不用担心，”凯特琳说。她拒绝透露自己的姓，因为她正在找工作，不想让自己与毒品的联系吓跑潜在的雇主。“然后派对上的每个人都吸食了这种毒品。”
Since that first experience, Kaitlin has encountered Molly at a birthday celebration and at a dance party in Williamsburg. “It’s the only drug I can think of that I have to pay for,” she said. “It makes you really happy. It’s very loose. You just get very turned on — not even sexually, but you just feel really upbeat and want to dance or whatever.”
那次之后，凯特琳在一次生日派对和威廉斯堡的一次舞会上又见过莫利。“它是唯一一种我能想到的自己会买的毒品，”她说，“它真的能让你非常高兴。它让人非常放松。它能让你变得十分兴奋，不是性兴奋，而是你感到非常愉快，想要跳舞什么的。”
Molly is not new, exactly. MDMA, or 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine, was patented by Merck pharmaceuticals in 1914 and did not make much news until the 1970s, when psychotherapists began giving it to patients to get them to open up. It arrived at New York nightclubs in the late 1980s, and by the early ’90s it became the preferred drug at raves at Limelight and Shelter, where a weekly party called NASA later served as a backdrop in Larry Clark’s movie “Kids.”
莫利并不是新出现的毒品。MDMA是1914年默克制药公司生产的专利产品，一直默默无闻，直到20世纪70年代心理医生为了让病人敞开心扉开始让病人服用这种药。它在20世纪80年代末出现在纽约的俱乐部里，在90年代初成为Limelight俱乐部和Shelter俱乐部的狂欢派对的首选毒品。Shelter俱乐部每周一次的NASA派对后来成为拉里·克拉克(Larry Clark)的电影《孩子》(Kids)的背景。
Known for inducing feelings of euphoria, closeness and diminished anxiety, Ecstasy was quickly embraced by Wall Street traders and Chelsea gallerinas. But as demand increased, so did the adulterants in each pill (caffeine, speed, ephedrine, ketamine, LSD, talcum powder and aspirin, to name a few), and by the new millennium, the drug’s reputation had soured.
由于摇头丸能让人精神愉快、情感亲密、焦虑减少而很快受到华尔街交易员和切尔西的画廊美眉的欢迎。但是随着需求的增加，每个药片中的掺杂物（咖啡因、脱氧麻黄碱、麻黄碱、氯胺酮、麦角酸二乙基氨酰、滑石粉和阿司匹林等）的含量也在增加。到了新世纪，这种毒品名声已经臭了。
Then, sometime in the last decade, it returned to clubs as Molly, a powder or crystalline form of MDMA that implied greater purity and safety: Ecstasy re-branded as a gentler, more approachable drug. And thanks in part to that new friendly moniker, MDMA has found a new following in a generation of conscientious professionals who have never been to a rave and who are known for making careful choices in regard to their food, coffee and clothing. Much as marijuana enthusiasts of an earlier generation sang the virtues of Mary Jane, they argue that Molly (the name is thought to derive from “molecule”) feels natural and basically harmless.
之后，在过去10年的某个时候，它以莫利的身份回到了俱乐部。莫利是粉末状或晶体状的MDMA，那意味着它的纯度和安全性更高，比摇头丸更温和、更可接近。多少由于MDMA的新名字很友好，它得到了小心谨慎的新一代迷恋者的追随，这代人从未参加过锐舞派对，以对食物、咖啡和服装的谨慎选择而闻名。很像上一代喜爱大麻的那些人歌颂大麻烟的优点那样，他们辩称莫利（据说这个名字是从molecule[微粒]这个单词衍生而来的）感觉更天然，基本上无害。
A 26-year-old New York woman named Elliot, who works in film, took Molly a few months ago at a friend’s apartment and headed to dinner at Souen, the popular “macrobiotic, natural organic” restaurant in the East Village, and then went dancing. “I’ve always been somewhat terrified of drugs,” she said. “But I’d been curious about Molly, which is sold as this pure, fun-loving drug. This is probably completely naïve, but I felt I wasn’t putting as many scary chemicals into my body.”
26岁的纽约女子埃利奥特(Elliot)在电影行业工作，几个月前她在朋友的公寓里吸食了莫利，然后前往Souen餐厅就餐。Souen是东村的一家很受欢迎的“健康饮食、天然有机”餐厅。然后她去跳舞了。“我总是多少有点害怕毒品，”她说，“但是我对莫利很好奇。它是一种看起来很纯、很有趣的毒品。我这么说可能很天真，但是我感觉并没有往身体里吸入可怕的化学物质。”
Robert Glatter, an emergency-room physician at Lenox Hill Hospital on the Upper East Side, might disagree. Dr. Glatter used to go months without hearing about Molly; now, he sees about four patients a month exhibiting its common side effects, which include teeth grinding, dehydration, anxiety, insomnia, fever and loss of appetite. (More dangerous ones include hyperthermia, uncontrollable seizures, high blood pressure and depression caused by a sudden drop in serotonin levels in the days after use, nicknamed Suicide Tuesdays.)
罗伯特·格拉特(Robert Glatter)是上东区勒诺克斯山医院(Lenox Hill Hospital)的急诊室医生。他可能不会赞成埃利奥特的看法。格拉特医生过去常常几个月都碰不到一个因莫利引起的病例；现在一个月大约能碰到四个病人表现出莫利的常见副作用，包括磨牙、脱水、焦虑、失眠、发烧和食欲不振（更危险的症状包括发高烧、不可控制的痉挛、高血压和抑郁，这些症状是因为血清素的骤降引起的，通常在吸食几天后出现，被戏称为“周二自杀日”）。
“Typically in the past we’d see rave kids, but now we’re seeing more people into their 30s and 40s experimenting with it,” Dr. Glatter said. “MDMA use has increased dramatically. It’s really a global phenomenon now.”
“过去我们主要碰到的是参加锐舞派对的孩子，但是现在看到更多三、四十岁的人在尝试它，”格拉特说，“MDMA的用量在剧增。现在这真是一个全球现象。”
Nationally, the Drug Abuse Warning Network reports that the number of MDMA-related emergency-room visits have doubled since 2004. It is possible to overdose on MDMA, though when taken by itself, the drug rarely leads to death, Dr. Glatter said. (Official mortality figures are not available, but a study by New York City’s deputy chief medical examiner determined that from 1997 to 2000, two people died solely because of MDMA.)
毒品滥用警告网报告说，自2004年至今，全美国与MDMA相关的急诊数量翻了一番。格兰特说，人们可能会过量吸食MDMA，虽然单独吸食这种毒品很少会导致死亡（没有官方的死亡数字，但是纽约副总法医的一项调查表明从1997年至2000年，共有两人仅因为吸食MDMA而死亡）。
According to the United States Customs and Border Protection, there were 2,670 confiscations of MDMA in 2012, up from 186 in 2008.
根据美国海关与边境保护局的统计，2012年有2670起MDMA没收案例，2008年是186起。
“Oh, we’re very aware of it,” said Rusty Payne, an agent at the Drug Enforcement Agency’s national office. Mr. Payne had not heard of Molly before 2008. Since then, the agency has used the term to document arrests in Syracuse and Jackson, Miss. “Molly has been very much glamorized in pop culture, which is obviously a problem,” he said.
“哦，我们很清楚这一点，”禁毒署全国办公室的工作人员拉斯蒂·佩恩(Rusty Payne)说。佩恩在2008年之前没有听说过莫利。从那时起，该署在记录发生在锡拉库扎市(Syracuse)和密西西比州杰克逊市(Jackson)的逮捕时开始用到这个名字。“莫利在流行文化中被过于美化了，这显然是个问题，”他说。
Indeed, many attribute MDMA’s resurgence to the return of Electronic Dance Music (or E.D.M.), the pulsating Euro beat that has infiltrated the sound of pop radio acts like Rihanna, Kesha and Katy Perry. At the Ultra Music Festival in Miami last year, Madonna was criticized for asking her audience, “How many people in this crowd have seen Molly?” (She later said that she was referring to a friend’s song, not the drug.)
很多人把MDMA的复活归因于电子舞曲的回归。这种令人兴奋的欧洲节拍渗透到了蕾哈娜(Rihanna)、凯莎(Kesha)和凯蒂·派瑞(Katy Perry)这样的流行歌手的声音里。去年在迈阿密的超级音乐节上，麦当娜因为问观众“你们中间有多少人见过莫利？”而遭到了批评（后来她说她指的是一个朋友的歌曲，不是那种毒品）。
In the last year, rappers have also embraced Molly, with references to the drug appearing in lyrics by Gucci Mane, Kanye West and Lil Wayne, who raps, “Pop a Molly, smoke a blunt, that mean I’m a high roller,” on Nicki Minaj’s 2012 hit “Roman Reloaded.” Rick Ross was recently dropped as a Reebok spokesman after he rapped about spiking a woman’s Champagne with Molly. And Miley Cyrus has a new single called “We Can’t Stop,” in which she sings what sounds like, “We like to party, dancing with Molly.” (Her producer has said the lyric is “dancing with Miley.”)
去年，说唱歌手们也开始接受莫利，古奇·马内(Gucci Mane)、坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)和李尔·韦恩(Lil Wayne)在歌词中都提到了这种毒品。韦恩在妮琪·米娜(Nicki Minaj)2012年的热门歌曲《罗马人重装上阵》(Roman Reloaded)中唱道：“取出莫利，吸上一口，我挥金如土。”里克·罗斯(Rick Ross)最近在说唱歌曲中提到在一个女人的香槟里放入莫利之后，失去了锐步代言人的身份。麦莉·赛勒斯(Miley Cyrus)在新单曲《我们停不下来》(We Can’t Stop)中唱的好像是：“我们喜欢派对，和莫利一起跳舞”（她的制作人说歌词是“和麦莉一起跳舞”）。
People who like Molly, which can cost $20 to $50 a dose, say it is a more socially acceptable drug than cocaine, because it is not physically addictive. Cat Marnell, 30, the former beauty director at xoJane.com who recently sold a memoir about drug addiction to Simon & Schuster for a reported $500,000, has noticed that many of her friends who sell Molly like to pack the powder into clear capsules that they buy from LifeThyme Market, the health food store next to C. O. Bigelow in the West Village. “Molly is the big thing now,” Ms. Marnell said. “Coke is sort of grimy and passé. Weed smells too much and is also sort of low rent and junior high.”
莫利的价格是一剂20至50美元。喜欢莫利的人说，它比可卡因更能被社会所接受，因为你在生理上不会对它上瘾。30岁的凯特·马内尔(Cat Marnell)是xoJane.com网站的前任美容版总监。她最近把一本关于吸毒上瘾的回忆录卖给了西蒙舒斯特出版社(Simon & Schuster)，据说稿酬为50万美元。她注意到自己的很多卖莫利的朋友喜欢把那种粉末装进从LifeThyme市场买来的透明盒子里。LifeThyme市场是西村C. O. Bigelow药店旁边的健康食品商店。“莫利现在很流行，”马内尔说，“可卡因肮脏而陈旧。大麻烟卷味道太浓，上不了档次，是给小屁孩用的。”
But Ms. Marnell scoffed at MDMA’s reformed image. “People think Molly is this flower-child drug,” she said recalling photos from the 2011 Coachella music festival showing the former Disney star Vanessa Hudgens, wearing a floppy ’70s hat and American Indian-inspired jewelry, dipping into a white powder that the gossip blogs ruled to be Molly. (Her publicist said it was white chocolate.) “It’s true that it’s not like cocaine in that it doesn’t make you bloated and it doesn’t make your nose raw, but sometimes you take it and you can’t sleep or you get really sick. It’s still a hard-core drug.”
但是马内尔鄙视MDMA的新形象。“人们认为莫利是嬉皮士毒品，”她说。她回忆起2011年科切拉(Coachella)音乐节的照片中，昔日的迪斯尼明星凡妮莎·哈金斯(Vanessa Hudgens)戴着70年代松软的帽子和具有美国印第安风情的珠宝，啜了一口白色的粉末，八卦博客认为那些粉末是莫利（她的公关人员说那是白色巧克力）。“没错，莫利不像可卡因，不会让你浮肿或者让你的鼻子刺痛，但是有时你吸食它之后无法入睡或者会大病一场。它仍然是一种毒性很大的毒品。”
MDMA was first classified as an illegal substance in 1985. By the early 2000s, public officials nicknamed Ecstasy “Agony,” and warned that MDMA use could lead to Parkinson’s disease, a lifetime of depression and “holes in your brain.”
自1985年，MDMA被列为禁药。到21世纪初，政府工作人员把摇头丸戏称为“痛苦”(Agony)，警告公众吸食MDMA可能会导致帕金森症、终身抑郁或“让你的脑子出问题”。
Those claims have since been disproved, according to Dr. John Halpern, a psychiatrist at Harvard who has conducted several MDMA studies. In recent years, the Food and Drug Administration has approved studies looking into whether MDMA can be used to treat post-traumatic stress disorder and anxiety in terminal cancer patients. And Dr. Halpern has found no evidence that the drug impairs cognitive performance. “A drug that actually does kill brain cells — which MDMA doesn’t — is alcohol,” he said.
据约翰·哈尔彭(John Halpern)博士说，那些说法后来被证明是错误的。哈尔彭是哈佛大学的精神病学家，他进行了几项关于MDMA的研究。近些年，美国食品和药品管理局批准了一些针对MDMA的研究，以确定MDMA可否被用于治疗创伤后精神紧张症和晚期癌症病人的焦虑。哈尔彭博士没有找到任何证据证明那种毒品会损害认知功能。“酒精真的能杀死脑细胞，但是MDMA不会，”他说。
But a greater worry for doctors and law enforcement officials is the many substances that people might be ingesting unknowingly when they take Molly. “Anyone can call something Molly to try to make sound less harmful,” said Mr. Payne of the D.E.A. “But it can be anything.”
但是令医生和执法人员更担忧的是，人们在吸食莫利的时候，可能无意中吸入了很多其他物质。“任何人都能把随便什么东西称作莫利，让它听起来不那么有害，”毒品管制署的佩恩说，“但是它可能是别的东西。”
According to Dr. Halpern, many of the powders sold as Molly contain no MDMA whatsoever; others are synthetic concoctions designed to mimic the drug’s effects, Mr. Payne said. Despite promises of greater purity and potency, Molly, as its popularity had grown, is now thought to be as contaminated as Ecstasy once was.
据哈尔彭说，很多以莫利的名义售卖的粉末完全不含MDMA。佩恩说，有的粉末是模拟莫利效果的合成品。尽管莫利号称具有更高的纯度和效力，但是随着它的流行，人们认为它和曾经的摇头丸一样，也含有很多杂质。
“You’re fooling yourself if you think it’s somehow safer because it’s sold in powdered form,” Dr. Halpern said.
“如果你因为它是以粉末形式售卖的，就认为它更安全，那你是在骗自己，”哈尔彭说。
But to some users, Molly still feels like a more respectable substance than others.
但是有些吸食者仍然感觉莫利比其他毒品更可接受。
“I think people are much more aware of where coke comes from and what it does in those countries,” said Sarah Nicole Prickett, 27, a writer for Vice and The New Inquiry, a culture and commentary site, who called cocaine a “blood drug.” “Molly, if it’s pure, it feels good and fun.” (Much of it comes from Canada and the Netherlands, Mr. Payne said.)
“我想人们更了解可卡因是从哪儿来的，它在那些国家造成了什么后果，”27岁的莎拉·妮科尔·普里克特(Sarah Nicole Prickett)说。她是《Vice》杂志和文化评论网站The New Inquiry的撰稿人，她把可卡因称为“带血的毒品”。“纯的莫利用起来感觉很好、很有意思。”（佩恩说，莫利大多来自加拿大和荷兰。）
Ms. Prickett, who moved to New York from Toronto last year, added that she could see why the drug might be taking hold in her new habitat.
普里克特去年从多伦多搬到了纽约。她补充说，她知道为什么那种毒品可能会在她的新居住地扎根。
“My impression of New York was that everyone just did drugs for work, that everyone was on speed,” she said. “Molly makes you feel unplanned, and that’s not a common feeling in New York, where everyone knows where they’re going all the time and they’re going very, very fast.”
“我对纽约的印象是这里的每个人只会为了工作而吸毒，每个人的生活节奏都很快，”她说，“莫利让你感觉不做计划，这种感觉在纽约并不常见，这里的每个人每时每刻都知道自己要干嘛，而且他们行动得非常、非常快。”
Rick Doblin, the founder of the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies, which has helped finance MDMA studies since the drug first entered the club scene, put Molly in the context of past drug trends: in the 1960s, he suggested, people searched for deeper spirituality and found LSD; in the ’70s, as hippie culture became mainstream, marijuana entered the suburban household; in the ’80s, cocaine complemented the extravagance and selfishness of the greed decade; and by the early ’90s, youths dropped out of reality, dancing all night on Ecstasy or slumping in the corner on heroin. MDMA, which in addition to acting as a stimulant also promotes feelings of bonding and human connection, just might be what people are looking for right now.
里克·多布林(Rick Doblin)是多学科迷幻剂研究所的创始人。自从莫利首次出现在俱乐部，该研究所就开始资助MDMA研究。多布林回顾了过去流行的各种毒品：20世纪60年代，人们为了寻找更深的灵性，发现了LSD；70年代，嬉皮文化成为主流，大麻进入郊区家庭；80年代，可卡因助长了那个贪婪年代的放纵与任性；90年代初，年轻人逃避现实，吃着摇头丸整晚跳舞或者吸着海洛因瘫倒在角落里。MDMA不仅是一种兴奋剂，还能增进人们之间的感情，很可能是人们现在正在寻找的东西。
“As we move more and more electronic, people are extremely hungry for the opposite: human interaction on a deeper level where you’re not rushing around,” Mr. Doblin said. “The rise of Molly is in tune with how people are feeling emotionally.”
“人们越来越依赖电子产品，所以极度渴望它的对立面：能让人感觉平静的深层次的人类交流，”多布林说，“莫利的流行缘于人们的情感需求。”