MOSCOW — The ground rules were set in the moments before the mayor, Sergei S. Sobyanin, arrived on the Kremlin embankment of the Moscow River accompanied by Patriarch Kirill I, the leader of the Russian Orthodox Church.
莫斯科——在谢尔盖·S·索比亚宁(Sergei S. Sobyanin)市长由俄罗斯东正教会(Russian Orthodox Church)大牧首基里尔一世(Patriarch Kirill I)陪同抵达莫斯科河克里姆林宫河岸之前，规矩就已经定好了。
There would be no questions — and no photographs of the men until they stood perfectly positioned against the backdrop of the pink and white bell tower of the Church of Sophia, Wisdom of God, recently restored thanks to the munificence of the mayor’s office.
不允许提问；在两人以圣索菲亚教堂粉红色和白色的钟楼为背景一动不动地站好之后，也不允许拍照。得益于市长办公室的宽宏大量，体现“上帝智慧”（译注：圣索菲亚在希腊语中有上帝智慧之意）的圣索菲亚教堂最近得到了修缮。
“Just imagine that there is a glass wall between us and them,” a mayoral aide, Aleksandr Gerasimov, explained.
“想象一下，我们和他们之间有一道玻璃墙。”市长助理亚历山大·格拉西莫夫(Aleksandr Gerasimov)解释说。
That has, in truth, been the case here ever since President Vladimir V. Putin came to power and proceeded to orchestrate elections in which the Kremlin’s favored candidates remained far removed from the people who nominally elect them. As voters go to the polls on Sunday in Moscow, Mr. Sobyanin has played his part, eschewing most overt political campaigning, as Mr. Putin has before. The election itself, however, has not followed the usual script.
事实上，自从弗拉基米尔·v·普京总统(Vladimir V. Putin)上台并着手精心策划选举以来，这已经成为一种常态：克里姆林宫所青睐的候选人高高在上，远离名义上把他们选上台的选民。在莫斯科的选民周日就要投票之际，索比亚宁尽了自己的本分，避开了大多数具有鲜明政治色彩的竞选活动，就像普京以前的做法一样。然而，这场选举本身并未按照老套的脚本上演。
The improbable campaign of Aleksei A. Navalny, the corruption-fighting activist, has exposed disarray in the political system Mr. Putin has constructed. Beginning with Mr. Navalny’s conviction for embezzlement and prompt release on appeal in July, the Kremlin’s response to his campaign has been contradictory and at times confused, revealing what many view as growing schisms among Mr. Putin’s closest circle of advisers.
反腐败活动人士阿列克赛·A·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)令人难以置信的竞选，暴露了普京所构建的政治体制的混乱。纳瓦尔尼今年7月被判贪污，但在上诉后迅速获释，此后克里姆林宫对他的竞选活动做出了自相矛盾，有时混乱不堪的回应。许多人认为，这表明普京身边的幕僚圈分歧愈演愈烈。
“The splits and differences that have existed in these circles forever have become arguably more tense,” said Maria Lipman, a researcher at the Carnegie Moscow Center, “and they have played out publicly more frequently than before.”
“这类圈子永远存在分裂和意见分歧，但现在可以说分歧变得更严重了，”莫斯科卡内基中心(Carnegie Moscow Center)研究员玛丽亚·利普曼(Maria Lipman)说，“而且公开暴露的频度比以往更高了。”
Mr. Navalny, 37, and any ads on his behalf have been barred from national television, while he and his supporters have faced harassment and threats of new criminal investigations, including a police raid of an apartment of Navalny supporters that was orchestrated by another candidate considered loyal to the Kremlin.
37岁的纳瓦尔尼和他的竞选广告都遭到了国家电视台的封杀，与此同时，他和他的支持者还遭到了骚扰，并面临着新的刑事调查的威胁，包括警方对纳瓦尔尼支持者的一套公寓进行的突击搜查，策划此举的是被视为忠于普京的另一位候选人。
At the same time, Mr. Navalny has openly campaigned before larger and larger crowds. He modeled his efforts, he said, on those he learned watching the HBO series “The Wire,” speaking to voters in a way that has not been seen since the early years of democracy after the Soviet Union’s collapse.
与此同时，纳瓦尔尼仍在举行公开竞选活动，而且吸引的人群越来越大。他说自己在竞选中模仿了从HBO（美国家庭影院频道）剧集《火线》(The Wire)里学到的招数，用一种自从苏联解体、俄罗斯走上民主道路最初几年之后未见的方式跟选民说话。
That has tested the limits of the authorities’ tolerance, provoking responses that seem tentative and uncertain.
这是在与当局的容忍度底线打擦边球，引发了一些似乎试探性的、不确定的反应。
When a recent rally drew thousands of supporters, the police promptly detained Mr. Navalny, only to release him, he said, because they had no orders telling them what do next.
近日，在一个吸引了数千名支持者的集会上，警方突然拘留了纳瓦尔尼，但随后又把他给放了。据他说，那是因为警方没接到下一步的行动指示。
“It was completely unclear why the police came to take me from the stage and then half an hour later let me go, saying they had not detained me at all,” Mr. Navalny said in an interview, describing a comic odyssey in which he was driven in circles in a police van. “Nobody understands that logic.”
“完全不知道是什么原因，警方跑来把我从台上带走，又在半小时后放了我，还说他们根本不曾拘留我。”纳瓦尔尼接受采访时，描述了自己被扣在警车里兜圈子的可笑经历。“没人理解其中的逻辑。”
Mr. Sobyanin, a former governor from Siberia and a Kremlin aide who was appointed mayor in 2010, is almost certain to win Sunday’s vote, though Mr. Navalny remains hopeful that either he or one of the other five candidates challenging Mr. Sobyanin can draw enough votes to force a runoff against the mayor two weeks later.
曾经当过西伯利亚地方官员和克里姆林宫助理的索比亚宁在2010年被任命为市长，在周日的选举中，他几乎肯定会胜出，尽管纳瓦尔尼仍希望他本人或者另外5名挑战索比亚宁的候选人能够得到足够多的选票，从而在两周后的第二轮投票中与现任市长对决。
“During a second round, everything will change,” Mr. Navalny said. “It’s obvious that that would destroy their general portrayal that they’re so big and we’re so small.”
“在第二轮投票中，一切都会不一样。”纳瓦尔尼说，“按照他们的总体描述，他们非常强大，而我们非常渺小，第二轮投票显然可以打破这种描述。”
Mr. Sobyanin’s campaign manager, Lyudmila I. Shvetsova, said the mayor welcomed a fair election, acknowledging indirectly that previous elections had been marred by machinations and accusations of fraud. Mr. Sobyanin himself has repeatedly said that Mr. Navalny should remain in the race, even as unproven accusations swirled that Mr. Navalny owned property abroad and that his campaign had committed other violations that would, if true, have disqualified him.
索比亚宁的竞选活动负责人柳德米拉·I·舒薇索娃(Lyudmila I. Shvetsova)称，市长欢迎一场公平的选举，这等于间接承认以往的选举受到了暗箱操作和舞弊指控的玷污。索比亚宁本人则一再表示，纳瓦尔尼应该继续参加竞选，即使未经证实的指控不绝于耳，称纳瓦尔尼在海外拥有房地产，而他的竞选活动存在其他违规行为——如果这些行为被证明属实，他将失去参选资格。
Mr. Sobyanin has done so even as Mr. Navalny has continued the anticorruption crusade that made him famous, exposing documents suggesting that Mr. Sobyanin’s 16-year-old daughter has a $3 million apartment in Moscow registered in her name. (Mr. Sobyanin’s campaign claimed the acquisition was lawful.)
索比亚宁做出上述表态之际，纳瓦尔尼继续推进令其声名鹊起的反腐败运动，他曝光了一些文件，似乎表明有一处价值300万美元的莫斯科公寓登记在索比亚宁16岁的女儿名下。（索比亚宁竞选团队称，该公寓是合法获得的。）
That has led to speculation that Mr. Sobyanin is among the Putin advisers who have advocated a loosening of the repressive political system Mr. Putin has erected to ensure that only Kremlin-approved candidates win elections. The argument is that the Kremlin is willing to risk more direct political challenges, if only to reinforce Mr. Sobyanin’s legitimacy as an elected, not appointed, mayor.
外界据此揣测，索比亚宁是主张放松由普京建立的专制政治体制的普京幕僚之一，该体制的目标是确保只有克里姆林宫认可的候选人才能赢得选举。按照这种论点，克里姆林宫愿意冒险面对更多直接政治挑战，即便只是为了增强索比亚宁作为一个选举产生（而非被任命）的市长的合法性。
Mr. Putin’s Kremlin remains so opaque that few know exactly what has motivated the comparative openness of the election. Skeptics note that the appeal of Mr. Navalny’s conviction could come at any moment, before or after the election, sending him to prison for five years and statutorily removing him from public life.
普京的克里姆林宫极为不透明，以至于几乎没人确切知道举行较为开放的选举动机何在。怀疑者认为，在选举之前或之后，纳瓦尔尼的上诉随时都可能出结果，带给他5年的牢狱之灾，从法律上把他赶出公共生活。
They also have pointed to a recent meeting with political strategists organized by a senior Kremlin aide, Vyacheslav V. Volodin. Although it was held behind closed doors, those who attended said Mr. Volodin advocated for a more democratic process that would avert the mass protests that greeted the 2011 parliamentary elections and Mr. Putin’s re-election a year later. At the same time, though, he made it clear that no real opposition leader would be allowed to emerge. His model was reportedly called “competition without change.”
他们还提到了克里姆林宫高级助理维亚切斯拉夫·V·沃洛金(Vyacheslav V. Volodin)最近召集的一个政治策略师会议。虽然会议是闭门举行的，但有与会者称，沃洛金支持更为民主的选举程序，以避免再度出现2011年议会选举和一年前普京重新当选总统后的大规模抗议活动。但他同时明确表示，不会允许出现真正的反对派领导人。据媒体报道，他提出的模式被称为“不会带来改变的竞争(competition without change)”。
Sergei A. Markov, a political strategist with ties to the Kremlin who was at the meeting, said that the strategy would allow Mr. Sobyanin to demonstrate that he has legitimate political support, something that would not happen if he ran without significant opposition. Even so, he said, Mr. Putin and others around him fear that Mr. Navalny represents the forces of a potential “orange revolution” like the one that overturned a fraudulent election in Ukraine in 2004.
与克里姆林宫关系密切的政治战略智囊谢尔盖·A·马尔可夫(Sergei A. Markov)也参加了此次会议，他说，这种策略可以让索比亚宁证明自己拥有合法的政治支持，如果竞选时没有强大的对手，就无法证明这一点。不过他表示，普京和他周围的人担心，纳瓦尔尼代表着潜在的“橙色革命”力量。2004年，“橙色革命”推翻了乌克兰一场舞弊选举的结果。
“These people don’t believe that Navalny wants democracy,” Mr. Markov said. “They believe he wants to destroy Russia.”
“这些人并不相信纳瓦尔尼要的是民主，”马尔可夫说，“他们认为他想摧毁俄罗斯。”