MOSCOW — The usually busy Moscow street was empty of cars and also of police officers as a light drizzle turned into a downpour.
莫斯科——一场毛毛细雨变成倾盆大雨之后，莫斯科这条平日繁忙的街道上没有了车辆，甚至连警察也没有了。
Yet, in a city where traffic rules used to be viewed as entirely optional, a dozen pedestrians all stayed rooted on the sidewalk, waiting obediently in the rain as a red light counted down the 160 seconds they needed to wait before crossing.
然而，在这样一个交通规则曾被视为可遵守可不遵守的城市，十几个行人仍然在人行道边，在雨中耐心地等待着红灯倒数完160秒再穿过马路。
“I always try to follow the rules. I want to live in a civilized country,” said Aleksei Smirnov, a 22-year-old courier, when asked why he bothered to wait when there was virtually no risk of getting hit by a car or fined for jaywalking.
为什么他们在根本没有被车辆撞到的危险、也不会因为乱穿马路遭到罚款的情况下，还愿意耐心等红灯？“我一直都尽量守规则。我想生活在一个文明的国家里。”被问到这个问题时，22岁的快递员阿列克谢·斯米尔诺夫(Aleksei Smirnov)回答说。
For anyone who lived in Moscow in the 1990s, a decade-long fiesta of disobedience and bracing liberty, Mr. Smirnov’s reverence for the rituals of good behavior is a jolting reminder of how much Russia, or at least its capital, has changed since President Vladimir V. Putin took power in 1999.
莫斯科的20世纪90年代是充满反抗、拥抱自由的10年，对于曾在那段时间生活在这里的人来说，斯米尔诺夫这种遵守良好行为规范的行为会让他们震惊地想到，自从弗拉迪米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)1999年掌权以来，俄罗斯，至少是它的首都，已经发生了很大的改变。
But as with so much of what happens in Russia, working out the direction of that change depends on what you make of Mr. Putin: sinister former K.G.B. officer bent on dragging the country back toward the fearful obedience of the Soviet Union, or simply a tough but modern-minded enforcer intent on bringing some order out of chaos?
但是，尽管俄罗斯发生了那么多事，要想理解这种变化的本质方向，还是取决于你如何看待普京：一个邪恶的前克格勃官员，一心把国家拖回苏联时代那种可怕的顺从之中，抑或只是一个强硬但拥有现代意识的执法者，致力于为混乱带来一点秩序？
For government officials, the growing and once unimaginable respect for bothersome traffic signals is proof that, whatever the complaints of Kremlin critics about creeping dictatorship, the iron rule of Mr. Putin and his handpicked choice as Moscow mayor, Sergei S. Sobyanin, has brought about a long-overdue shift toward a gentler, more law-abiding society.
人们愈来愈遵守讨厌的交通信号灯指示，这在从前是不可想象的，对于政府官员来说，这是一种证据，表明不管克里姆林宫的批评者们怎样对缓慢推进的独裁专制充满抱怨，普京的铁腕统治，以及他亲手选择谢尔盖·S·索比亚宁(Sergei S. Sobyanin)来担任莫斯科市长，这一切都带来了一种早该到来的变化，让社会向更加温和守法的方向前进。
“It is not because people are afraid but because they are now taught from childhood to follow traffic and other rules,” said Alexander Polyakov, deputy director of the Moscow Traffic Control Center, the headquarters of an elaborate monitoring and control system that features 40,000 traffic lights, 150,000 cameras dotted around the city and a vast data storage facility that holds all the video transmitted from the streets.
“人们不是因为害怕，而是因为他们从小就被教导要遵守交通规则和其他规则，”莫斯科交通管理中心的副主任亚历山大·波利亚科夫(Alexander Polyakov)说道。这里是一套精密的交通监控系统的总部，管理着城区各地的4万个交通信号灯和15万个摄像头，它还有一套庞大的数据存储设施，用来保存所有街头传回来的视频。
Watching street scenes projected onto a big screen in the main control room, Moscow’s traffic controllers monitor the flow of the 3.5 million cars and many more pedestrians moving around the city each day.
莫斯科的交通管理者们在主控室里看着投影在大屏幕上的街景，监控着每天在市内流动的350万辆车辆，以及数量更多的步行者。
Mr. Polyakov said he was dismayed by Russia’s image in the West as a lawless land of brutish oppression. He insisted that, at least with respect to traffic signals, people obey not out of fear of any fines — the maximum is 500 rubles, or about $8 — but because “they now respect themselves and also each other.”
波利亚科夫说，西方人将俄罗斯视为一个充满残酷压迫的无法无天之地，这种观念让他吃惊。他坚持说，至少在遵守交通信号灯指示方面，人们遵守规则不是因为害怕罚款（最高可达500卢布，约合8美元），而是因为“现在他们尊敬自己，也互相尊重”。
He said that, in contrast to the anything-goes, risk-taking ethos that dominated Moscow in the 1990s, “people don’t want to take risks anymore” at crosswalks because they understand that everyone is better off if rules are respected.
他说，相较于20世纪90年代莫斯科所盛行的那种胡干蛮干的风气，现在过马路的时候，“人们再也不想冒险了”，因为他们明白，遵守规则对所有人都有好处。
It is a view that chimes with Mr. Putin’s repeated calls for greater discipline and order. Soon after taking power, he vowed to introduce a “dictatorship of law” that he said would apply to everyone and put an end to the disorder that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
他的观点同普京一再强调的更加严格的纪律与秩序不谋而合。掌权后不久，普京便发誓实行“法律的专政”，他说，它将适用于所有人，结束苏联1991年解体后的混乱状态。
But many are highly skeptical about whether Mr. Putin has delivered — or even has any real interest in delivering — on that promise. Law enforcement agencies and the courts routinely hound government critics over minor or invented offenses but show little desire to punish the more serious misdeeds of well-connected insiders.
但是很多人非常怀疑普京有没有履行这个承诺——甚至也许根本就没有兴趣履行这个承诺。执法机构和法院经常为小小事端或莫须有的罪名去迫害政府的批评者，却没什么心思去惩处人脉丰富的内部人士所犯下的更为严重的罪行。
Leon Kosals, a sociologist who teaches in the law department of Moscow’s Higher School of Economics, said Muscovites “know that they cannot get access to justice, that it is not a fair game.” But he said they increasingly try to follow traffic and other rules “because they want to live in a modern country, not because they think the system is now fair.”
莱昂·科萨尔斯(Leon Kosals)是一位社会学家，在莫斯科高等经济学院(Higher School of Economics)的法律系任教，他说，莫斯科人“知道他们不可能得到公正，这根本就不是一个公平的游戏”。但他也说，人们愈来愈努力遵守交通规则和其他规则“是因为他们希望生活在一个现代化的国家里，而不是因为他们觉得现在的体制很公平”。
Rather than an endorsement of the Kremlin, Mr. Kosals added, such behavior is in some ways a form of silent protest, a defiant display of a desire to enjoy the modernity of the West, a political and cultural zone constantly vilified by state-run news media as a sinkhole of decadent misery rife with Russophobes and homosexuals.
科萨尔斯补充说，这样的行为与其说是对克里姆林宫的支持，倒不如说在某种程度上是一种无声的抗议，人们轻蔑地表示他们也渴望享受西方的现代性，这一政治与文化领域经常遭到国有新闻媒体的诋毁，西方被描绘为堕落的悲惨深渊，充满恐俄者和同性恋。
The Moscow city authorities, Mr. Kosals said, deserve credit for curbing the once brazenly corrupt traffic police and investing heavily to beautify the city. But a more important factor in changing pedestrian habits, he said, is the longing of many Muscovites for a different and more civilized life.
科萨尔斯说，莫斯科市政府控制住了交通警察中一度猖獗的腐败现象，斥巨资美化这座城市，这是值得称道的。但是，促成行人改变自身习惯中最关键的因素在于，很多莫斯科人都渴望过上一种不一样的、更为文明的生活。
The result, he said, is “an unfortunately rare success story for Russia.”
其结果，他说，“就是一个可惜非常罕有的俄罗斯成功故事。”
“In this area,” he said, “there is a joint effort between both government and society.”
“在这个领域里，”他说，“是政府与社会共同努力的结果。”
Moscow still has huge traffic jams at rush hour and, according to TomTom, a Dutch company that compiles an annual survey of global traffic conditions, is now the world’s fifth most congested city.
根据为全球交通状况编纂年度调查的荷兰公司TomTom的资料，莫斯科在交通高峰时期仍然会出现严重的拥堵，如今它是全世界第五大最拥堵城市。
But this is a big improvement over just a few years ago, when Moscow beat out Mexico City, Bangkok and other notoriously congested cities for the title of the world’s worst traffic.
但是这比起几年前已经有了巨大的改善，当时莫斯科击败墨西哥城、曼谷和其他以拥堵著称的地方，一举成为全球交通状况最差的城市。
This progress, said Mr. Polyakov of the city’s Traffic Control Center, is because of new roads, a new automated system for fining motorists and better behavior by drivers and pedestrians, who, thanks to the introduction of new traffic lights, now know exactly how many seconds they have to wait to cross.
莫斯科交通管理中心的波利亚科夫说，带来这一进步的原因包括新修道路，一套全新自动化的驾车罚款系统，以及司机和行人们变得更守规矩了。由于引入了新的交通信号灯，现在行人可以准确地知道自己还要等待几秒才能过马路了。
“They can see that they will not have to wait forever, that there is hope of getting to the other side,” Mr. Polyakov said.
“他们可以看到自己用不着等很久，能看到走到街对面的希望，”波利亚科夫说。
Where Russia hopes to get to exactly and how long this will take, however, are a muddle. While the Kremlin denounces the United States and Europe as a hostile menace intent on enfeebling Russia, the city of Moscow has at the same time become steadily more European in its tastes, habits and aspirations.
俄罗斯究竟要达到什么目标，达成目标需要多长时间，目前仍然不得而知。一方面克里姆林宫谴责美国和欧洲恶意威胁，旨在削弱俄罗斯的力量，与此同时，莫斯科这座城市却在品味、习惯与抱负这些方面变得愈来愈欧洲化了。
Basic courtesies like holding the door at the entrance to the Metro so it does not slam in the face of the next person are gaining ground, particularly among young urban professionals.
在地铁入口处扶一下大门，以防门打在后面的人脸上，这样的基本礼仪愈来愈为人们所接受，特别是在那些年轻的城市职业人士当中。
“It is a fantastic phenomenon — this is an urban revolution,” said Sergei Nikitin, a preservation activist and expert on urban planning. “I never thought people in Moscow would be so caring about their city and each other.”
“这真是个奇妙的现象——这是一场都市革命。”保护活动人士与城市规划专家谢尔盖·尼基丁(Sergei Nikitin)说，“我从来没想到莫斯科人会这样关心自己的城市，也彼此关心。”
Moscow, he said, is undergoing “real gentrification in the sense that it is becoming more gentle.”
他说，莫斯科正在经历“真正的士绅化，因为它变得愈来愈温文尔雅”。
In the vanguard of this are younger Muscovites like Mr. Smirnov who have no memories of the Soviet Union and who have traveled widely outside Russia. But their elders, too, now mostly wait at crosswalks.
起带头作用的是斯米尔诺夫这样的莫斯科年轻人，他们没有苏联时代的记忆，也去过俄罗斯之外的各地旅行。但如今他们的长辈也大都愿意在过马路时等待信号灯了。
Tatiana Markovsova, the wife of a Soviet-era diplomat who was based in London, waited alongside Mr. Smirnov in the rain recently but said respect for traffic signals was not so much a sign of any embrace of European ways but a healthy return to the discipline of the Soviet era.
塔季扬娜·马科夫索娃(Tatiana Markovsova)是一位苏联时代曾在伦敦工作过的外交官的妻子，前不久下那场雨时，她就站在斯米尔诺夫旁边等待信号灯，但是她说，遵守信号灯指示不并不表明人们日渐接受欧洲方式，倒像是对苏联时代纪律性的一种健康回归。
“Under Yeltsin, everything was in chaos,” she said. “He was drunk all the time, and nobody followed the rules. Now things are getting back to the way they were.”
“叶利钦掌权的时候，一切都乱糟糟的，”她说。“他总喝得醉醺醺的，没人守规矩。现在事态总算回归正轨了。”
She added that she thought pedestrians waited for the light to change mainly because they were worried about being fined or being run over.
她还补充说，她认为行人愿意等待信号灯，主要是因为他们担心被罚款或者被车撞。
For Mr. Nikitin, the urban planning expert, however, the growing readiness of many Muscovites to follow pedestrian traffic signals “is the very opposite of Soviet attitudes” of fatalistic patience bred by the need to wait in long lines at shops and fear of punishment.
然而城市规划专家尼基丁却认为，许多莫斯科人愈来愈愿意遵守行人交通信号灯的指示，“这和苏联时期的心态正相反”，那时人们总得在商店外面排长队购买物品，从而培育出了听天由命的耐心，而且还总是担心受到惩罚。
“A lot of cultural factors are very important here, not just fines,” he said. “It is about being civil, not about discipline.”
“很多文化因素在这里都起到非常重要的作用，不只是罚款，”他说。“这关乎文明，而非纪律。”
Mr. Nikitin applauded the Moscow authorities for sprucing up the city with various programs to refurbish dilapidated buildings, repave roads, widen sidewalks and establish cycle lanes.
尼基丁称赞莫斯科当局用各种项目美化这座城市——翻修破旧的建筑，重新铺路，拓宽人行道，增设自行车道。
Many liberal intellectuals, particularly those active in opposition politics, grumble about the beautification efforts, which went into high gear after mass anti-Putin protests in Moscow in 2011. The physical changes in the city have succeeded in calming, or at least defusing, the discontent of middle-class residents by making Moscow far more friendly for cyclists, pedestrians and young stroller-pushing parents — precisely the upwardly mobile people who took to the streets in protest in 2011.
很多自由主义知识分子，尤其是那些在反对政治活动中非常活跃的人士，抱怨这些在2011年莫斯科的大规模反普京抗议活动之后大张旗鼓展开的美化行动。这座城市外貌的变化成功地安抚或者至少是平息了中产阶级居民的不满，对骑自行车的人、行人以及推婴儿车的年轻父母们来说，尤其是那些在2011年上街抗议的社会地位在上升的人来说，莫斯科变得友好多了。
Mr. Nikitin said that while changing the city’s appearance would not solve Russia’s many deep problems, it had encouraged new and more civil codes of behavior among residents.
尼基丁说，虽然改变这座城市的外貌不会解决俄罗斯的很多深层问题，但它鼓励居民遵守新的更为文明的行为准则。
“The beautification is real. You cannot deny it,” he said. “This changes the way people think and behave.”
“美化是真实存在的。你不能否认它，”他说。“这改变了人们的思考和行为方式。”