MOSCOW — A morning commute ended in darkness, smoke and bloody mayhem for passengers on the Moscow metro on Tuesday when a train derailed underground, killing at least 20 people and injuring more than 100 others.
莫斯科——周二，莫斯科一列地铁列车在地下脱轨，导致至少20人丧生，100多人受伤，一次早晨的通勤变成了一场黑暗、浓烟和鲜血的惨剧。
Witnesses described being suddenly heaved out of their seats and landing in piles in the center of the wagons as three cars derailed and jackknifed in a tunnel about 200 yards from the Slavic Boulevard metro stop. Passengers posted cellphone images of people walking to safety through a tunnel.
目击者描述说，他们突然被甩出座位，叠罗汉似地落在车厢中部，当时，这列从斯拉夫大道车站(Slavic Boulevard)驶出的列车正行驶在一段约200码（约合180米）长的隧道内，有三节车厢发生脱轨并变形。乘客们贴出了手机拍摄的照片，显示了车里的人正通过一条地道走向安全地带。
The cause was not immediately clear. The authorities blamed a power failure, a botched emergency stop or a mechanical flaw with a wheel chassis. Officials cited in Russian media quickly ruled out terrorism.
列车脱轨的原因有待调查。当局称电力故障、糟糕的紧急刹车或是车轮底盘的某个机械缺陷引发了此次事故。俄罗斯媒体援引官员们的话表示，他们迅速排除了恐怖袭击的可能性。
“I was flung into the center of the wagon,” one passenger told the television station LifeNews. “A panic ensued,” the unidentified passenger said. “The train literally was torn apart, the wagons crumpled and a lot of people were injured and some wound up squeezed” between bent metal debris.
一名乘客对俄罗斯电视台“生活新闻”(LifeNews)描述说，“我被甩到了车厢中央。”这名不知身份的乘客说，“大家都吓坏了。车根本就是被拆散了，车厢扭曲变形，许多人受了伤，有的被夹在”弯曲的金属残骸之间。
The passenger said riders were obviously not expecting a sudden stop and were thrown on top of each other.
这名乘客说，车上的人显然没有想到列车会突然刹车，被甩出去压在了别人身上。
Lenta.ru, an online news site, quoted another unidentified passenger describing a “sudden braking, the lights went out, sparks, and heavy smoke. Everybody was thrown to one side.” Firefighters reached the wreck within six minutes, the website reported. At street level, rescue personnel evacuated some of the injured in helicopters to avoid the usual rush-hour traffic jams, the news agency Itar-Tass reported. The authorities said scores of the injured were in grave condition.
新闻网站Lenta.ru援引另一名不知身份的乘客的话说，“列车突然刹车，灯灭了，火花四溅，到处是浓烟。每个人都被抛到了一侧。”该网站报道称，消防员在六分钟内抵达了事故现场。据本地通讯社塔斯社(Itar-Tass)报道，在街道上，为了避免出行高峰期常见的堵车，救援人员用直升机疏散了一些伤者。当局表示，有不少伤者的情况危急。
Moscow has had reason to prepare for subway emergencies. In 2010, twin suicide bombings carried out by female terrorists from the region of Dagestan killed 39 people during a morning rush hour. The accident on Tuesday was the worst loss of life in the city’s metro system since that attack.
莫斯科有理由为地铁紧急事件做好准备。2010年，来自达吉斯坦地区的女性恐怖分子在早高峰期间制造了两起自杀式炸弹袭击。周二的事故，是那次袭击以来莫斯科地铁系统遭遇的遇难人数最多的事故。
On a crystalline summer morning, the news media in the capital were saturated with coverage of the accident, elbowing out news of the war in Ukraine that has fixated the media here for months.
在一个清新的夏日早晨，首都的新闻媒体充斥着对这起事故的报道。事故挤走了数月来一直占据首要位置的有关乌克兰战事的新闻。
The Echo of Moscow radio station interviewed a train conductor debunking the theory that a loss of electrical power could have caused a derailing. He said that an electrical commuter train would coast to a safe stop in that case.
莫斯科回声(Echo of Moscow)广播电台采访了一名列车长，他驳斥了失去电力导致脱轨的说法。他说在那种情况下，电力通勤列车会先滑行，最后安全停靠。
The news agency Interfax cited an unnamed official who was described as being close to the investigation saying that a wheel assembly had come loose from the undercarriage of a wagon. Since this occurred near the front of the train, and the car came to an abrupt halt, some wagons behind it then also jumped their rails, the official said.
俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax)援引一位不具名官员的话说，一节车厢的车轮总成松了，从底盘上掉了下来。报道称这名官员与事故调查有密切的关系。他说由于事故出现在列车头部附近，且列车突然制动，于是后面的一些车厢也脱轨了。