MOSCOW — Russia’s capital city has worn many outfits since the fall of the Soviet Union.
莫斯科——自苏联解体以来，俄罗斯的首都穿过许多身外衣。
There was the tattered but hopeful garb of the first years, threadbare and full of possibility. Then came the leopard print fur of the 1990s, an era of stomach-churning economic collapse when the rich roared around in Mercedes sedans and everyone else suffered through the endless steeplechase of life under uncontrolled capitalism.
最初几年是衣衫褴褛但充满希望，破破烂烂却又满是可能性。然后是90年代的豹纹皮草，经济崩溃令人揪心，有钱人开着奔驰轿车呼啸而过，而其他人顶着失控的资本主义在无尽的人生障碍赛中备受煎熬。
More recently, however, the city has donned a beautiful summer dress. There is a bike share program, Wi-Fi on the subway and free tango lessons in Gorky Park. Express trains now zip past traffic snarls to the airports and Uber taxis have replaced wheezing Soviet-era gypsy cabs. Cars park in real parking spaces and tow trucks haul them away if they do not.
然而近年来，这座城市披上了一身美丽的夏装。城市中有自行车共享计划，地铁里有无线网络，高尔基公园还有免费的探戈舞课。特快列车现在能快速穿越拥堵的交通到达机场，优步出租车已取代了呼哧呼哧的苏联时代无证出租车。汽车停在真正的泊车位上，而且若不这样的话就会被拖车拉走。
But while Moscow looks ever more like an elegant European capital, its political life is marching steadily in the opposite direction. Last month, Russia’s powerful state investigation committee proposed removing the principles of international human rights from the Constitution. The regional government in Sverdlovsk recently ordered schools to remove books by a British historian for what it said were inaccurate portrayals of Russian soldiers. Two American charities announced plans to close offices, citing the hostile environment.
然而，尽管莫斯科看上去越来越像一座优雅的欧洲都会，这里的政治生活却在迈向相反的方向。上个月，强大的俄罗斯联邦调查委员会提议将一些国际人权准则从宪法中删除。斯维尔德洛夫斯克的州政府近期命令学校撤掉一位英国历史学家的书，宣称的理由是其中对俄罗斯军人的描述不准确。两家美国的慈善机构宣布计划关闭驻俄罗斯的办公室，原因是环境不友好。
For an outsider, the disconnect is dizzying. Which is the real Russia? The one besieged by foreign agents or the one where tattooed hipsters glide around on skateboards? And when — if ever — will those two worlds collide?
对一个局外人而言，这样的脱节令人困惑。哪个才是真正的俄罗斯？是陷入外国轮番指责的那个？还是有纹身的潮人脚踩滑板滑来滑去的那个？还有，何时——如果真有这么一天的话——这两个世界会发生撞击？
In many ways, Moscow is resurgent: a more beautiful, confident version of itself. Over the top has given way to casual elegance. On a recent afternoon at Uilliam’s on Malaya Bronnaya Street, where duck ravioli with oranges was on the menu, patrons sat on small pillows near open windows, chatting, drinking wine and people-watching. In the park nearby, tired mothers slumped in beanbag chairs while their children screeched and climbed in an inflatable house.
从很多角度看，莫斯科在复苏：成为一个更加美丽自信的自己。毫无节制的夸张让位于不经意的优雅。不久前的一个下午，在马来亚布朗纳亚街的威廉姆餐厅(Uilliam’s)，菜单上有鸭肉饺配香橙，客人们坐在小坐垫上，旁边是打开的窗户。他们聊天，喝葡萄酒，看来往的行人。在附近的公园里，疲惫的母亲们倒在懒人沙发中，而她们的孩子们正嬉闹着攀爬一座充气房子。
But the rich are not the only beneficiaries. Russians are substantially better off since President Vladimir V. Putin first came to power in 2000. The average salary has roughly tripled, after inflation, and poverty has declined sharply, bringing a feeling of stability and well-being that was lacking in the 1990s. More Russians can now plan life in advance (Where will I go on vacation this year?) instead of snatching it a day at a time (What will I eat for dinner tomorrow?).
不过，有钱人并不是仅有的受益者。自2000年弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V.Putin) 首次担任总统以来，俄罗斯民众的经济状况明显提高。刨除通货膨胀因素后，平均工资上涨了大约两倍，贫困现象大幅减少，带给人们一种90年代欠缺的稳定和幸福的感受 。更多的俄罗斯人现在能提前计划生活（今年我要去哪儿度假？），而不是一次只盯着一天（我明天的晚餐吃什么？）。
“It’s so much more comfortable in the city now,” said Denis Lebedev, a construction company worker, 33, sitting with his baby daughter on his lap near a pond in Tsarytsino, a meticulously planted park in southern Moscow. Traffic is tamed, mostly, and salaries are better.
“现在市里变得舒服多了，”33岁的建筑公司员工丹尼斯·列别捷夫(Denis Lebedev)说。他坐在莫斯科南城经过精心打理的查里茨诺公园里的一个小池塘旁，女儿就坐在他的膝头。交通大致得到了控制，人们的薪水也涨了。
“Now there are flowers,” his wife, Anya Lebedeva, said of the city parks as she adjusted a plate of pickles on their picnic blanket.
“到处都有花，”他的太太阿妮娅·列别捷娃(Anya Lebedeva)这样评价市内的公园。她一边说，一边整理着野餐布上的一盘酸菜。
Even the old seems new. Backstage at the Bolshoi Theater on a recent night, dozens of dancers, jubilant and sweaty, mingled with adoring members of Moscow’s high society after the premiere of a new Russian ballet. It was a sumptuous display, blending modern and classical ballet with the 19th-century Russian novel “A Hero of Our Time,” which had never been adapted for dance before.
就连古老的事物也似乎在焕发新生。不久前的一个晚上，在一出新的俄罗斯芭蕾舞剧的首次公演后，几十名还挂着汗珠的欢快的芭蕾舞演员与来自莫斯科上流社会的仰慕者相聚在莫斯科大剧院(Bolshoi Theater)的后台。这是一次盛大的演出，将现代芭蕾与古典芭蕾融合于19世纪的俄国小说《当代英雄》(A Hero of Our Time)之中。这也是这本小说首次改编为舞剧。
“Magnificent, just magnificent,” a man in a dark blue suit who stepped onto the stage said to Ilya Demutsky, the young composer from St. Petersburg who wrote the score.
“太棒了，真的太棒了，”一名身穿深蓝色西装的男士走上舞台，对编写总谱的来自圣彼得堡的年轻作曲家伊利亚·德姆斯基(Ilya Demutsky)说。
The pomp can also signal something darker, however. On a recent Sunday morning, Patriarch Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, was blessing the newly restored St. Vladimir Church in central Moscow. Priests swung incense from silver censers that tinkled like bells underneath the soaring ceilings and gilded chandeliers, the glittering pageantry captured by a long line of television cameras. A day later, Mr. Putin came for a private showing. The patriarch’s sermon included fiery comments on Ukraine.
然而，盛况也可以预示一些更加阴暗的事情。不久前的一个周日上午，俄罗斯东正教会大牧首基里尔(Patriarch Kirill)为坐落于莫斯科中心地带的新修复的圣弗拉基米尔教堂(St. Vladimir Church)祈福。在高高的天花板和镀金的吊灯下，牧师们摇着叮当作响的银质香炉里的香。这一壮丽的庆典被一长条的电视摄像机捕捉下来。一天后，普京也因私到访这座教堂。大牧首的布道包含了针对乌克兰的一些激烈言论。
“And when we are told today that someone from outside has destroyed the unity of the Ukrainian people,” he said, referring to the criticism of Russia’s military action in Ukraine, “we answer, ‘Be quiet!’ ” He went on to explain that hundreds of years of discord imposed by the West had divided Ukraine, and only church unity could save it.
“今天有人非要跟我们说，外人破坏了乌克兰人民的团结，”他说道，意指俄罗斯在乌克兰采取的军事行动遭受的批判。“我们的回答是，‘闭嘴！’”他继续解释，是西方世界几百年来的挑拨离间分裂了乌克兰，而只有宗教团结才能拯救它。”
Another projector of Russian patriotism is a surgeon-turned-motorcycle enthusiast named Alexander Zaldostanov. His nationalist motorcycle gang, the Night Wolves, last year performed a garish reconstruction of the war in Ukraine that featured Nazis with torches representing Ukrainian nationalists manipulated by a giant set of American hands.
体现俄罗斯爱国主义的另一人是亚历山大·扎尔多斯塔诺夫(Alexander Zaldostanov)。这名从前的外科医生现在是摩托车爱好者。他领导的民族主义机车团体“夜狼”(Night Wolves)去年对乌克兰战争进行了矫饰的重现，用举着火把的纳粹代表被美国的一双大手操控的乌克兰民族主义者。
In stuffy room packed with journalists last month, Mr. Zaldostanov, soaking up attention like a seal in the sun, announced plans for a new motorcycle show.
上个月，在挤满记者的一个闷热房间里，扎尔多斯塔诺夫就像沐浴在阳光下的海豹，吸引着大家的关注。他宣布了准备举行新的摩托车表演的计划。
“I’m not a showman,” said Mr. Zaldostanov, wearing a leather biker vest and a large medallion with the head of a wolf set in sparkly stones arranged to look like flames. “For me it’s a war. This is a fight for the motherland.” He accused the United States of “bombing the consciousness” of the world.
“我不是一个爱出风头的人，”扎尔多斯塔诺夫说。“对我来说，这是一场战争。为祖国而战。”他身穿机车皮背心，戴着一枚配有闪亮石质火焰图案的狼头圆形挂坠，指责美国“炸毁了世界的良知”。
Among intellectuals, the mood is dark. In recent weeks, newspaper articles have attacked the journalism department at Moscow State University for teaching liberal ideas. Several professors at St. Petersburg State University have been fired for what their colleagues say are their liberal views.
知识分子的情绪则比较低落。最近几周，报纸文章抨击莫斯科国立大学(Moscow State University)的新闻学院教授自由主义理念。圣彼得堡国立大学(St. Petersburg State University)的几名教授遭到解聘，而他们的同事表示原因是他们抱有自由主义观点。
Many are leaving. The number of Russians emigrating to Israel was up by about two-thirds in the first five months of this year, compared with the same period last year, according to Israel’s Central Bureau of Statistics. Temporary teaching positions become permanent and graduate programs turn into extended stays.
有很多人离开。据以色列中央统计局透露，在今年头五个月里，移民到以色列的俄罗斯公民的人数同比增加了大约三分之二。临时教职变成永久性的，研究生项目不断延期。
“It’s a very narrow circle but for those it touches, it is very painful,” said Lyubov Borusyak, a sociologist at the Higher School of Economics, whose son, studying at Harvard, is an example of someone with no immediate plans to return. “It’s like an icicle that is melting.”
“这是一个非常小的圈子，但对于涉及到的人来说，这是非常痛苦的，”高等经济学院(Higher School of Economics)的社会学者柳博芙·波鲁斯亚(Lyubov Borusyak)说。“就像是正在融化的冰柱。”波鲁斯亚的儿子在哈佛上学，像一些人一样，他没有立即返回俄罗斯的计划。
There are optimists. Vladimir Milov, an opposition politician, said Russians care far more about the economy than foreign politics, and that the aggressive and nationalistic language only goes skin deep.
也有一些乐观主义者。反对派政届人士弗拉基米尔·米洛夫(Vladimir Milov)表示，与外国政治相比，俄罗斯人对经济的关心要多得多，强硬的民族主义言论不过是浮于表面的。
“There’s 5 to 10 percent of people who are really charged up with this imperialist rhetoric,” he said. “But over 90 percent just don’t care. Of course they watch TV, of course they get the messages, but this is all on the surface, like foam that can be washed away quickly.”
“有5%到10%的人对这种帝国主义论调感到非常兴奋，”他说。“但超过90%的人根本不关心。当然，他们看电视，获取了此类信息，但这些都是表面的，就像那些很快就被冲走的泡沫一样。
On a recent Friday on Maroseyka Street, city workers were painting bike stands, set into the spacious new stone sidewalk. Ivan Ilin was walking back to work after having a bowl of onion soup at the Jean-Jacques cafe. Mr. Ilin, 33, from southern Russia, has a business in the new field of human resources.
不久前的一个周五，市政工作者在马洛塞卡街上给设在宽敞的石砌新人行道上的停车架刷涂料。在让-雅克餐吧(Jean-Jacques)喝完一碗洋葱汤后，伊万·伊林(Ivan Ilin)走回去工作。33岁的伊林来自俄罗斯南部，涉足了人力资源这块新领域。
“I love this discrimination against drivers,” he declared brightly, gesturing at the narrowed road.
“我喜欢这种针对司机的歧视，”他指着狭窄的公路高声说道。
He usually travels to Europe twice a year, to Italy, Latvia and Lithuania, and to Lisbon to practice his Portuguese. He does not like the imagery of a Russia under siege, or the fact that the news media are not independent, but he feels there is little he can do to change it.
他通常一年去两次欧洲，前往意大利、拉脱维亚和立陶宛旅行，还会去里斯本练习葡萄牙语。他既不喜欢俄罗斯被批评声浪包围的景象，也不喜欢新闻媒体并非独立的事实，但他觉得自己无法改变这种情况。
“I distance myself from it,” he said.
“我让自己远离这个问题，”他说。
Still, he has no plans to leave.
不过，他并没有离开的打算。
“Go to the U.S. and work in McDonald’s?” he said. “No, I’m not going to do that. I want to stay where I’m needed.”
“去美国，然后到麦当劳(McDonald’s)打工？”他反问道。“不，我不会这么做的。我想留在需要自己的地方。”
Just off Old Arbat Street last week, a human rights activist who often serves as the country’s conscience, Lyudmila Alexeyeva, 88, was sunk deeply into a dark blue couch. Her Moscow Helsinki Group has shrunk to seven employees, down from 17 in 2013. It stopped taking funding from outside Russia to avoid being labeled a foreign agent. On a recent radio call-in show, the first question put to her was from a man asking her view on “the predatory snarl of American imperialism.”
上周，就在老阿尔巴特街外，经常充当这个国家的良知的人权活动人士——88岁的柳德米拉·阿列克谢耶娃(Lyudmila Alexeyeva)——深陷在深蓝色的沙发上。她领导的莫斯科赫尔辛基小组(Moscow Helsinki Group)现在只剩七名员工，而2013年的时候她手下有17人。该组织不再收取来自境外的资金，以免被贴上外国代理人的标签。在近日的一期电台热线节目中，一名男子向她提出了第一个问题，要求她就“美帝国主义的掠夺性”发表意见。
She explained that America was far away and she was more interested in Russia, but he was implacable. There was a vote at the end. About 80 percent of the callers sided against her.
她解释，美国非常遥远，她对俄罗斯的兴趣更大，但他并不满意。节目最后举行了投票，结果大约80%的来电者反对她。
“What has surprised me and saddened me most was that after these 20 years of being connected to the world, of media, of freedoms, we still have not learned to think for ourselves,” she said.
“让我最为意外和难过的是，在与媒体世界、自由世界接触20年后，我们仍未学会独立思考，”她说。
“I hope it will pass,” she added, and pointed out that 20 percent had taken her side. “It can’t go on like this forever.”
“我希望这会过去，”她还表示，并指出有20%的人支持她。“情况不可能永远是这样。”