MOSCOW — The first mayoral election here in a decade ended with a victory for the appointed incumbent, according to official results on Monday. But his main challenger, one of President Vladimir V. Putin’s most prominent critics, claimed that he had won enough votes to force a runoff, and he warned of efforts to falsify the outcome of a race that proved to be much closer than expected.
莫斯科——据官方周一公布的结果，被任命的莫斯科现任市长赢得了十年来该市的第一次市长选举。但他的主要竞争对手，也是弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)总统最著名的批评者之一称其赢得的选票足够多，足以迫使进行第二轮投票，他对试图伪造竞选结果的努力提出警告，事实证明此次竞举的结果比预期的要接近。
The election was widely seen as an unusually competitive test of Mr. Putin’s power, following mass protests in 2011 and 2012 over the conduct of national elections, including Mr. Putin’s third campaign for the presidency.
这次选举被广泛认为是对普京权力的一次不同寻常的竞争性测试，人们曾在2011年和2012年针对全国大选活动举行过大规模的抗议，其中包括针对普京的第三次总统竞选。
Sergei S. Sobyanin, the incumbent and Kremlin insider who was appointed mayor in 2010, appeared headed to a new five-year term, though hardly with a thunderous endorsement from voters, given his overwhelming advantages in the race.
莫斯科现任市长谢尔盖·S·索比亚宁(Sergei S. Sobyanin)是克里姆林宫的圈内人物，他在2010年被任命为市长，他能继续连任5年似乎没有问题，但考虑到他在这次竞选中的强大优势， 他并没有赢得选民的全力支持。
Moments after the polls closed Sunday night, Aleksei A. Navalny, the charismatic lawyer and blogger who has emerged as a potent opposition leader, said that his campaign’s exit polling indicated that Mr. Sobyanin had won fewer votes than the 50 percent needed to prevent a runoff.
周日晚上投票结束后不久，富有魅力的律师和博客主阿列克谢·A·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei A. Navalny)说，其竞选组织自己做的“投票后民调”显示，索比亚宁获得的选票少于能避免进行第二轮投票所需的50%。纳瓦尔尼在这次竞选中以强有力的反对派领袖的形象出现。
With all the ballots counted on Monday morning, Mr. Sobyanin’s tally was 51.4 percent and Mr. Navalny’s was 27 percent. The Communist Party’s candidate, Ivan I. Melnikov, won nearly 11 percent and three other candidates received around 3 percent each.
周一上午对所有选票的统计结果是，索比亚宁获得51.4%的选票，纳瓦尔尼获得27%的选票。共产党候选人伊万·I·梅尔尼科夫(Ivan I. Melnikov)获得近11%的票数，其他三名候选人每人得到约3%的选票。
Mr. Navalny said his campaign’s polling indicated that he had won 35 percent, compared with about 46 percent for Mr. Sobyanin, depriving him of an outright victory. “All the data from the exit polls that we have indisputably show there will be a second round in these elections,” Mr. Navalny said at his campaign headquarters. He appeared again early on Monday and declared that if a second round were not held, he would call on Muscovites to protest.
纳瓦尔尼说自己竞选组织的抽样调查显示他获得了35%的选票，而索比亚宁获得了46%的选票，所以后者并未获得彻底的胜利。他在自己的竞选总部说，“我们得到的投票后民调的所有数据都毫无争议地显示，此次选举须进行第二轮投票。”周一早上他再次出面，并宣布如果不举行第二轮投票，他将呼吁莫斯科人进行抗议。
“We will appeal to city residents and we will call on them to come into the streets,” he said.
他说，“我们会恳请莫斯科居民，号召他们走上街头抗议。”
Regardless of the outcome, Mr. Navalny, who is 37, defied expectations for Russia’s beleaguered democratic opposition. Although Mr. Putin faces no imminent threat to his power, the election showed that his prolonged rule as the undisputed authority here has generated a significant amount of discontent, at least in the nation’s political and economic capital. A challenge of the results by Mr. Navalny could lead to more popular unrest.
不管选举结果如何，今年37岁的纳瓦尔尼打破了人们对俄罗斯陷入困境的反对派民主力量的期望值。尽管普京的权力还没有马上面临威胁，但这次选举却显示出他长期来毫无争议的独裁统治已经招致公众的严重不满，至少在这个俄罗斯的政治和经济中心是这样。纳瓦尔尼对选举结果的挑战可能将会引发更多的民众骚乱。
Mr. Navalny, whose support in polls a few weeks ago was only in the single digits, managed through a short, intense campaign to win a greater share of the vote than any other opposition figure has managed in a major election since Mr. Putin rose to power in 1999. He did so by mounting what was for Russia a novel kind of grass roots insurgency, stumping for votes on the streets and raising money online, where he first rose to prominence by crusading against pervasive corruption in government and business.
几周前，对纳瓦尔尼的民调显示他的支持率只在个位数，之后他成功地通过短暂但强有力的竞选活动赢得了更多的选票，比1999年普京上台后任何一个反对派领导人在重要选举中获得的票数都多。他采用的方法，对俄国人来说，是一种新的基层竞选方式，他在街头演讲拉选票，并在互联网上募捐，他最初就是在网上出的名，因为他发博文抨击政府和商界普遍存在的腐败行为。
Mr. Sobyanin appeared briefly after midnight and spoke to supporters who gathered, pointedly, in Bolotnaya Square, the plaza near the Kremlin that was the focal point of the protests in 2011 and 2012. “These were the most competitive, most fair, most open elections in the history of Moscow,” he declared, as confetti showered a crowd estimated at a few thousand. He stopped short of declaring victory, but said, “I am sure that in the end we will win.”
索比亚宁在午夜后曾短暂出现在公众面前，对特意聚集在克里姆林宫附近沼泽广场(Bolotnaya Square)上的支持者发表了讲话。沼泽广场是2011年和2012年发生抗议活动的主要地点。据估计到场的支持者约有几千人，随着五彩纸屑向人群撒落，他宣布，“这是莫斯科历史上竞争最激烈、最公平也最公开的选举。”他没有宣布自己赢得选举，但说，“我确信我们最终会获胜。”
Turnout was an extremely low 32 percent, with only about one-third of registered voters in Moscow casting ballots, underscoring the disillusionment many Russians feel with politics.
这次选举的投票率极低，只有32%，莫斯科市只有约三分之一的登记选民参加了投票，这突显了很多俄罗斯人对政治很失望。
Mr. Navalny made the election a sort of referendum on Mr. Putin. But the Kremlin now faces no significant challenge at the ballot box for years to come. The next national elections are not scheduled until 2016.
纳瓦尔尼让这次选举变成一种对普京的全民公决。但是克里姆林宫在最近几年内还不会面临任何重大的选举挑战。下次全国大选要等到2016年。
“It’s awful,” said a retired chemist who joined voters at a schoolhouse on Lenin Prospect in Moscow. She gave only her first name and patronymic, Nona Georgievna. “This is a disaster. These are not elections — only the devil knows what to call this.”
在莫斯科列宁大街(Lenin Prospect)一所学校参加投票的退休药剂师说，“太糟糕了。”她只报了自己的名字和父姓，诺娜·格奥尔基耶夫娜(Nona Georgievna)。她说，“这是场灾难。这不叫选举，只有魔鬼才知道该怎么叫它。”
The decision to allow Mr. Navalny to run reflected divisions among Mr. Putin’s closest advisers over the extent to which they would tolerate competition in elections. After he registered as a candidate in July, Mr. Navalny was convicted of embezzlement in a trial that was widely denounced as rigged, only to be released on appeal the next day.
允许纳瓦尔尼参加竞选的决定反映出与普京最密切的顾问们对在多大程度上允许竞选中出现竞争的问题有分歧。纳瓦尔尼在去年7月份以候选人身份登记参加竞选之后，曾被判犯有挪用公款罪，但人们普遍指责对他的审判存在作弊行为，所以在第二天上诉后他就被释放了。
“Maybe he will be put into prison,” said Maksim Grachyov, a 25-year-old programmer who voted for Mr. Navalny, “but he managed to wake up people during the stagnation, when we had no alternative for many years.”
给纳瓦尔尼投了一票的25岁程序员马克西姆·格拉乔夫(Maksim Grachyov)说，“虽然他或许会进监狱，但是他唤醒了停滞中的人们，很多年来我们都没有另外的选择。”
Many analysts argued that allowing Mr. Navalny’s candidacy was merely a token gesture by the Kremlin to create the appearance of a fairer process or to add legitimacy to Mr. Sobyanin’s standing as one of the most prominent elected officials beneath Mr. Putin.
很多分析人士认为，允许纳瓦尔尼参加竞选只不过是克里姆林宫的象征性举动，因为政府要制造一个更加公平选举的外表，或要为索比亚宁的地位增添合法性，他是普京手下最重要的经选举产生的官员之一。
Mr. Navalny’s supporters, many of them young and educated, now face the question of how to sustain the energy his candidacy created. Some lamented the low turnout and the depth of apathy.
纳瓦尔尼的支持者中很多是受过教育的年轻人，他们现在面临着如何将他参加竞选所制造的能量维持下去的问题。一些人叹息投票率太低，以及公众对政治的淡漠。
Grigory Chkhartishvili, a novelist and opposition leader who writes under the name Boris Akunin, wrote in a posting on Facebook: “A bad thought occurred to me: maybe this serves us right? We get what we deserve?”
笔名为鲍里斯·阿库宁(Boris Akunin)的小说家兼反对派领导人格里戈里·奇哈尔季什维利(Grigory Chkhartishvili)在Facebook上发帖称，“一个坏想法在我的脑海中出现：或许这是我们罪有应得？我们得到了我们所应得的结果？”