Debris that washed up on the coast of Mozambique could be part of the wreckage from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which vanished almost exactly two years ago, Malaysian officials said Wednesday.
马来西亚官员本周三表示，被冲上莫桑比克海岸的碎片，可能是马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)的MH370航班的部分残骸。马航MH370失踪已经几乎整整两年。
If the debris, which was discovered over the weekend, came from the plane — a Boeing 777 that was en route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia — it would add to the theory that the plane went down in the southern Indian Ocean, and potentially contribute to the longstanding search for the wreckage.
MH370是一架波音777客机，在从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京的途中消失。如果上周末发现的这块碎片真的来自MH370，那么这架飞机飞向了印度洋南部的说法就有了更多的证据，可能会对飞机残骸的长期搜索工作有所帮助。
Airplane debris was found in July on Réunion, an island in the Indian Ocean that is a French territory. French investigators concluded “with certitude” that the debris — a piece of an aircraft wing known as a flaperon — came from Flight 370. No other Boeing 777 is known to be missing.
去年7月，印度洋上的法属留尼旺岛上发现了这架飞机的一块碎片。法国研究人员“确信”那块碎片——飞机机翼的一部分，被称为襟副翼——来自MH370。目前没有其他波音777客机失踪的报告。
NBC, citing unidentified sources, reported Wednesday that the newly discovered debris had washed up on a sandbank of the Mozambique Channel, the body of water that separates the southeast African nation from Madagascar. Réunion is to the east of the island nation of Madagascar, and it is roughly 1,500 miles from the coast of Mozambique.
周三，NBC援引未具名的消息称，新发现的残骸被冲上了莫桑比克海峡的一个的沙洲。莫桑比克海峡处在位于非州东南部的莫桑比克和马达加斯加之间。留尼旺岛位于马达加斯加岛以东，与莫桑比克海岸相距大约1500英里。
NBC reported that investigators in Malaysia, Australia and the United States were analyzing photographs of the object, which had the words “NO STEP” on it and could be from the horizontal stabilizer, a winglike mechanism attached to the plane's tail.
NBC报道称，马来西亚、澳大利亚和美国的调查人员正在对这块碎片的图片进行分析。它上面带有“NO STEP”字样，可能来自水平尾翼，即安装在飞机尾部的一块翼状物体。
CNN reported that the debris would be taken to Malaysia for further examination. It cited an unidentified U.S. official as saying that the wreckage was from the skin of the plane's horizontal stabilizer.
CNN报道说，碎片将送到马来西亚进行进一步检查。它援引一名未具名的美国官员的话说，这块碎片来自飞机水平尾翼的表面。
The Associated Press reported that photos appeared to “show the fixed leading edge of the right-hand tail section of a Boeing 777,” citing an unnamed U.S. official.
美联社(Associated Press)援引一位不愿具名的美国官员的话说，从照片上看，碎片似乎是“波音777右侧尾部被固定的前缘”。
On Wednesday evening, Malaysia's transport minister, Liow Tiong Lai, said on Twitter that there was a “high possibility debris found in Mozambique belongs to a B777,” referring to a Boeing-777.
周三晚上，马来西亚交通部长廖中莱(Liow Tiong Lai)在Twitter上表示，“在莫桑比克发现的碎片属于波音777的可能性很高”。
But Liow added, “It is yet to be confirmed & verified.” He said that Malaysia's Department of Civil Aviation was working with its Australian counterparts to retrieve the debris. “I urged everyone to avoid undue speculation as we are not able to conclude that the debris belongs to #mh370 at this time,” he wrote.
但是廖中莱说，这“尚未得到证实和确认”。他表示，马来西亚民航局正与在澳大利亚同行合作，取回这块碎片。“我呼吁大家避免不必要的猜测，因为目前我们还无法断定碎片是否属于MH370，”他写道。