MOSCOW — Moscow has not seen political argument this heated in years. Then again, Moscow has not seen a mayoral election in a decade. And now that the election is two weeks away, arguments about whom to vote for — or, more specifically, whether or not to vote for the opposition activist Aleksei Navalny — have reached a fever pitch.
莫斯科——莫斯科已经多年来没见到如此激烈的政治争论了。不过说起来，莫斯科也确实有十年没有市长竞选了。现在离选举还有两周之久，对于应当投票给谁，具体说来就是是否该给反对派活动人士阿列克谢·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei Navalny)投票的争论，已经到达白热化程度。
The problem with Navalny is that he is a man of his time. He was in his early 20s and still a student when Vladimir Putin came to power in 1999, the state had already taken over television channels and the electoral system virtually ceased to exist. In other words, Navalny has no experience living in a functioning — even an imperfectly functioning — democracy and no experience participating in a public political conversation.
纳瓦尔尼的问题是，他是一个属于自己年代的人。在弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)于1999年上台时，他还是一名二十岁出头的学生，国家政府已经把持了各电视频道，而选举制度实际上不复存在。换句话说，纳瓦尔尼没有在正常运作民主体制下——哪怕是不完美的民主体制——的生活经历，并且没有参与公共政治对话的经验。
He is a self-taught politician, and as a result many of his positions are poorly or primitively articulated. In campaign interviews, for example, he has stumbled over the heated issue of L.G.B.T. rights, first suggesting that gays and lesbians should march on a remote stadium, where they would not risk being exposed to violence, and reversing himself later. Most troubling have been his repeated nationalist and xenophobic statements. In a recent interview on Echo Moskvy radio, he promised to outlaw lezghinka, a traditional dance from the Caucasus, if he becomes mayor of Moscow. Such statements have caused some opposition activists, journalists and bloggers to say they cannot vote for Navalny.
他是一名自学成才的政治家，因此他的许多立场都是以笨拙或粗糙的方式表达的。例如，他在男女同性恋、双性恋和跨性别人群(LGBT)权利的热点问题上栽了跟头，他首先建议男女同性恋者应当在一个偏远的体育场游行，以免自己面临暴力威胁，但随后又更正了自己的话。最麻烦的是他重复宣扬的民族主义和排外言论。在最近莫斯科回声电台(Echo Moskvy)的采访中，他承诺如果自己能成为莫斯科市长的话，他将取缔列兹金卡舞(lezghinka)，这是一种来自高加索的传统舞蹈。这样的言论已经导致一些反对派活动人士、记者和博客表示他们不会投票给纳瓦尔尼。
Navalny will not become mayor of Moscow, of course, at least not as a result of the coming election. The acting mayor, Sergei Sobyanin, a member of the ruling United Russia party who enjoys a near-monopoly on the media, will likely commandeer more than half the vote. This is part of what makes the arguments about whether or not to vote for Navalny so heated and so difficult to resolve: It is not clear what voting in this election means.
纳瓦尔尼当然不会成为莫斯科市长，至少在即将来临的选举中不能。代理市长谢尔盖·索比亚宁(Sergei Sobyanin)是执政党统一俄罗斯党(United Russia)成员，他近乎垄断着媒体，想必将霸占超过半数的选票。是否该投票给纳瓦尔尼的争论之所以变得异常激烈，并且如此难以解决，跟这一点有一定关系：人们都不清楚在这场竞选中投票意味着什么。
This is not a fair election; the playing field is anything but level. Nor is there much trust in the vote count: The ruling party will claim victory no matter what. Even if Navalny won despite these handicaps, he cannot become mayor because he has been sentenced to five years in prison (deferred pending appeal), and by Russian law that makes him ineligible to be elected to office (unless he prevails on appeal).
这不是一次公平的选举，竞争环境绝非公平 。也没什么人信任计票结果：无论怎样执政党都将取胜。就算纳瓦尔尼能排除这许多不利而赢得选举，也不能成为市长，因为他被判处了五年监禁（上诉延期），而根据俄罗斯法律，他因此没有资格当选市长（除非他上诉获胜）。
If it’s not an election, then what is it? One group argues that it is a referendum on Russia’s future, a unique chance to say “no” to Putin’s continued rule by saying “yes” to one of his most outspoken and best-known opponents. In this construction, anyone who does not vote for Navalny is, in effect, voting for the Putin regime. The counterargument to that is, there must be a difference between saying “no” to Putin and saying that anyone who is not him is good. After all, Russia ended up with Putin in the first place because too many people bought the idea that anyone who wasn’t Boris Yeltsin was good.
如果这不是一次选举，那么它是什么呢？一些人认为，这是一次对俄罗斯前途的全民公投，一次对普京的持续统治说“不”的独特机会，方法是对普京最出言无忌、最知名的对手之一说“是”。在这此种形势下，任何不给纳瓦尔尼投票的人，实际上是在投票给普京政权。与此相反的观点则是，对普京说“不”，并不等于说任何普京以外的人都是好的。毕竟，俄罗斯最初落入普京之手，就是有太多人接受了只要不是鲍里斯·叶利钦(Boris Yeltsin)的人都是好人的想法。
Others say that voting for Navalny is like taking part in a protest in support of political prisoners. Navalny was sentenced on trumped charges, simply for being an opposition activist, and for that reason alone he deserves support. The counterargument to that is, participating in a political protest requires having a clear, principled political position. And that precludes some people from voting for a nationalist.
其他人说，投票给纳瓦尔尼就好比加入支持政治犯的抗议活动。纳瓦尔尼因莫须有的罪名而被判刑，只不过是因为他是一名反对派活动人士，只为这一个原因他就值得人们支持。与此相反的观点则是，参加政治抗议就必须有一个清晰而有原则的政治立场。而这则会让一些人不会投票给一位民族主义者。
A third group believes that the authorities made a mistake by calling the Moscow election, underestimating its potential for destabilizing the political situation in Russia. Rocking the boat, they believe, is reason enough to vote for Navalny. The counterargument to that is, political battles should be fought with precise weapons, and taking action simply in the hope of provoking some remote, improbable consequences is reckless.
第三类人相信，当局发起莫斯科市长选举是一个错误，低估了这可能会给俄罗斯政局带来的不稳定。他们认为，为了搅局而投票给纳瓦尔尼，理由再充分不过了。与此相反的观点是，政治斗争应当武装以精准的武器，仅为了造成一些间接而不切实际的后果而采取行动是鲁莽的。“我同意我大多数亲密朋友的意见，他们斩钉截铁地拒绝给他投票，”莫斯科一名23岁的社会学者最近在她的Facebook页面上，解释了她为何支持纳瓦尔尼。“他们说我犯了一个大错，他们可能是对的，”她接着说，“在我一生中，从未投票给能获胜的人。我甚至从未投票给想要赢的人。这让人非常气愤，但却是真的。”
“I agree with most of my close friends, who categorically refuse to vote for him,” a 23-year-old Moscow sociologist wrote on her Facebook page recently, explaining why she is supporting Navalny. “They say I am making a big mistake, and they are probably right,” she explained, adding: “I have never in my life voted for anyone who could have won. I have never even voted for anyone whom I wanted to win. This is terribly irritating, but true.”
在我看来，莫斯科这场并非选举的选举，是俄罗斯政治景象的一幅快照，能反映出试图在一片政治焦土上举行选举时会发生的景象。人们还能藉此一窥普京政权最终结束时将发生的事：俄罗斯将由那些成长过程中，没有经历过政治的人统治。