MOSCOW — Returning to my home city after emigrating to the United States is a bit like being an apparition. I landed on a weekend in mid-May, when some of Moscow’s residents had not yet returned from the string of holidays that free up most of the first half of the month and others were out of town starting the summer dacha season. Moscow was unseasonably hot, unusually sparse of people, and felt like a ghost town — and I was the ghost.
莫斯科——在移民美国后重返故城，让我觉得自己有点像是幽灵。我于5月中旬的一个周末落地，由于5月的前大半月都在放假，当时一些莫斯科居民还没有告别连串的假期返回城里，还有一些居民则离开城市到乡间别墅开始欢度夏季。莫斯科热得反常，人也少得反常，感觉就像一座鬼城——而我就是鬼。
If someone came to visit you from the afterlife, you would talk to that person about death. To me, everyone talked about emigration — although, to be fair, my friends claimed that’s all anyone talks about anyway. In the just five months I’ve been gone, the country has changed profoundly: It is a country at war, which means tolerance for a difference in political opinion is at an all-time low; the political crackdown has intensified; and the economic outlook is bleak.
如果某人从来世过来拜访你，你会和他讨论死亡。对我而言，所有人都在讨论移民——反正我的朋友是说大家都在讨论这个。我仅仅离开了五个月，这个国家就产生了深刻的变化：这是一个处于战争中的国家，它意味着对不同政见的容忍度处于历史最低点；政治镇压行动加剧了；经济前景一片黯淡。
A new kind of conversational shorthand has appeared in Moscow: “What’s your month?” people ask one another. They mean the month for which you are signed up for an interview at the Israeli embassy to receive initial immigration documents. The nearest available slot for people booking an appointment now reportedly is in November, but most of my friends have appointments in August or September. Even getting an appointment is an ordeal: The embassy’s phone lines are so overburdened that getting through to the right department can take hours. And according to a recent, leaked picture, inside the embassy, it is a mob scene reminiscent of 1990-91, the peak years of the Soviet Jewish exodus.
莫斯科已经出现了某种新的简化对话方式：“你是几月？”人们彼此问道。他们说的是以色列大使馆让你登记面试，接收你的初始移民文件的那个月。据报道，面试时间最早已经只能定到今年11月，不过，我的大部分朋友都定上了8月或9月的面试。就连获得预定的过程也是一场磨难：大使馆的电话线已经负担过重，以至于要把电话接通到正确的部门都可能要花上好几个小时。根据最近泄露出的一张照片，大使馆里人满为患的情形，让人回想起1990年和1991年时，大批苏联犹太人移民以色列的高峰期。
Not everyone has Jewish ancestry, or wants to live in Israel, so other options are discussed. Latvia is a European Union country that will grant residency in exchange for a relatively modest investment in property. Germany has a program for absorbing people of outstanding achievement — as does the United States, but Germany’s is reputed to be easier to navigate and to be particularly beneficial for artists. Distance is a recurring concern, albeit an illusory one: Running away to Europe seems somehow less catastrophic than running away to the United States, as though a five-hour difference in flight times from Moscow made a difference.
不是每个居民都有犹太血统，或者想要住在以色列，所以居民们正在讨论其他选择。拉脱维亚是一个愿为换取相对适中的房产投资而颁发居留权的欧盟成员国。和美国一样，德国对有杰出成就的人才有吸收计划，不过德国的计划被普遍认为更易获得通过，而且对艺术家格外有利。距离是个常见的担忧，尽管这种担忧是没来由的：逃到欧洲不知怎么就是显得比逃到美国要好一些，没那么悲惨，就好像从莫斯科飞到这两地的五个小时用时差距有多不得了似的。
A., a restaurateur, is opening a place in London and this qualifies him for a long-term visa and eventually for a residency permit. B., an opposition television journalist, is interviewing for a job as the Washington correspondent for a Ukrainian channel — take that, Moscow! C., who grew up a military brat, has a brand new Ukrainian passport: She qualified because she was born and partly grew up in Soviet Ukraine.
举三个例子：A、一名餐馆老板，他将在伦敦开一家餐厅，因此有资格获得长期签证，并最终获得居留许可。B、一位异见电视记者，此人正在面试乌克兰一个电视频道的驻华盛顿记者职位——接招吧，莫斯科！C、一名成长于军人家庭的女性，她拥有新的乌克兰护照：这是因为她出生于苏联时期的乌克兰，童年在那里待过一段时间。
The big question is whether to comply with regulations the Russian Parliament has just passed, requiring all citizens who have a second passport or residency abroad to report this fact to the authorities; noncompliance will be a criminal offense. The rationale behind the law is that as a country at war, Russia needs to ferret out potential spies and traitors. But some politicians have proposed banning Russians who have a second passport from exiting the country and banning dual citizenship altogether — an elegant way of making people choose whether they are in or out.
一个很大的问题是，要不要遵守俄罗斯议会刚刚通过的一项规定：所有拥有两本护照或外国居住资格的人必须向当局汇报，否则就是刑事犯罪。该规定背后的逻辑是，作为处于战争状态的国家，俄罗斯需要找到潜在的间谍和叛徒。但一些官员已经提议禁止拥有其他国家护照的俄罗斯人离境，而且彻底禁止拥有双重公民身份——这是一个让人们在留下和离开之间做出选择的简单办法。
Among the crowd of would-be émigrés, opinions are evenly split. Some are unwilling to risk a criminal conviction and will disclose; others are planning to hide their second passport away as a secret insurance policy. Appealing as the idea of an insurance policy may sound, a realtor friend (with a second passport) said that the city was emptying out: Rents have fallen, while on the sales market supply has overtaken demand.
在准移民大军中，持两种看法的人数基本持平。一些人不愿意冒刑事犯罪的风险，他们打算向当局披露自己的情况；另外一些人则打算把第二本护照隐藏起来，将其作为一个秘密的保单。这个想法听起来可能很吸引人，一个房地产业的朋友（他有两个护照）说，城市正在变空：房屋租金下降，销售市场供大于求。
The only person who didn’t talk to me about emigration was an activist friend who had spent the previous two months coordinating weekly street opinion polls on President Vladimir V. Putin’s policies in Ukraine. She told me the results have held steady, at 70 percent or more of respondents expressing approval for Mr. Putin. She also told me that a pending political trial appeared to be broadening out to include more defendants and that she would likely be among them. She recently served 10 days under administrative arrest in a Moscow holding facility, and she seemed to view it as a sort of rehearsal. It wasn’t so bad, she said, though she had been bored and had a hard time adjusting to people again once she got out. She seemed resigned to the very likely possibility of going to prison for several years.
唯一没跟我谈过移民问题的是一名活动分子，也是我的朋友。此前两个月，她一直在协调每周的街头民意调查，调查人们对总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)对乌政策的看法。她告诉我，调查结果很稳定，支持普京的受访者一直保持在70%甚至更高。她还告诉我，一场即将到来的政治审讯似乎将扩大被告的范围，她很可能是其中之一。她最近曾在莫斯科的一处关押设施被行政拘留10天，她似乎把这次经历当成了一种彩排。没那么糟糕，她说，不过，她在里面觉得很无聊，出狱后与人交流一度出现障碍。她似乎接受了入狱几年的可能性，而这种可能性也非常大。