In the last few years, it’s become increasingly clear that food companies engineer hyperprocessed foods in ways precisely geared to most appeal to our tastes. This technologically advanced engineering is done, of course, with the goal of maximizing profits, regardless of the effects of the resulting foods on consumer health, natural resources, the environment or anything else.
过去几年里，事情已经变得越来越明显：食品公司过度处理食物，以便它们能在色香味上最大程度地吸引顾客。当然，这种技术上很先进的制作方法是以公司利润最大化为目标的，和产出的食品对消费者健康、自然资源、环境以及其他东西有何影响无关。
But the issues go way beyond food, as the City University of New York professor Nicholas Freudenberg discusses in his new book, “Lethal but Legal: Corporations, Consumption, and Protecting Public Health.” Freudenberg’s case is that the food industry is but one example of the threat to public health posed by what he calls “the corporate consumption complex,” an alliance of corporations, banks, marketers and others that essentially promote and benefit from unhealthy lifestyles.
但是，正如纽约城市大学(City University of New York)教授尼古拉斯·弗罗伊登贝格(Nicholas Freudenberg)在新书《致命的合法之物：企业、消费和保护公众健康》(Lethal but Legal: Corporations, Consumption, and Protecting Public Health)中说的那样，并不是只有食品行业才存在这个问题。弗罗伊登贝格认为，“企业消费联盟”给公共健康带来了多种威胁，食品行业只是例子之一。他所说的“企业消费联盟”由企业、银行、市场营销机构等等组成，这些机构基本上宣扬不健康的生活方式，并从中获益。
It sounds creepy; it is creepy. But it’s also plain to see. Yes, it’s unlikely there’s a cabal that sits down and asks, “How can we kill more kids tomorrow?” But Freudenberg details how six industries — food and beverage, tobacco, alcohol, firearms, pharmaceutical and automotive — use pretty much the same playbook to defend the sales of health-threatening products. This playbook, largely developed by the tobacco industry, disregards human health and poses greater threats to our existence than any communicable disease you can name.
这听起来让人毛骨悚然；确实让人毛骨悚然。不过它也显而易见。当然，不可能有一个阴谋集团坐在一起讨论：“明天我们要怎样才能杀死更多的孩子呢？”但弗罗伊登贝格详细介绍了六大产业——食品和饮料、烟、酒、枪支、制药和汽车——使用几乎相同的战术来捍卫它们出售的威胁健康的产品。这套战术很大一部分是由烟草业制定的，它无视人类健康，对我们的生存构成的威胁比你想得起来的任何传染病都更大。
All of these industries work hard to defend our “right” — to smoke, feed our children junk, carry handguns and so on — as matters of choice, freedom and responsibility. Their unified line is that anything that restricts those “rights” is un-American.
所有这六个行业都在很努力地捍卫我们的“权利”——比如抽烟、给我们的孩子吃垃圾食品、携带枪支等等——说这事关选择、自由和责任。他们异口同声的台词是，限制这些“权利”的任何做法都是反美行为。
Yet each industry, as it (mostly) legally can, designs products that are difficult to resist and sometimes addictive. This may be obvious, if only in retrospect: The food industry has created combinations that most appeal to our brains’ instinctual and learned responses, although we were eating those foods long before we realized that. It may be hidden (and borderline illegal), as when tobacco companies upped the nicotine quotient of tobacco. Sometimes, as Freudenberg points out, the appeals may be subtle: Knowing full well that S.U.V.’s were less safe and more environmentally damaging than standard cars, manufacturers nevertheless marketed them as safer, appealing to our “unconscious ‘reptilian instincts’ for survival and reproduction and to advertise S.U.V.’s as both protection against crime and unsafe drivers and as a means to escape from civilization.”
然而，这六个行业中的每一个，都（大致）在法律允许的范围内，研制了令人难以抗拒、有时甚至令人上瘾的产品。只要回头想一想，你可能就会觉得这件事显而易见：食品行业制作的东西，以最能诱发我们大脑本能和习得反应为目标，虽然在我们意识到这一点很久以前，我们就开始吃这些食品了。这种事可能是暗自进行的（且几乎不合法），比如烟草公司增加烟草中的尼古丁含量。正如弗罗伊登贝格指出，有时候这种诱导可能很狡猾，比如汽车制造商完全明白，跟标准车型相比，运动型多功能汽车(SUV)不太安全，而且对环境的破坏更严重，但他们仍然宣传说SUV更安全，并诱发我们“求生和繁殖的无意识‘卑劣本能’，在广告中称SUV既能保护你免受犯罪活动和不安全驾驶者之害，又是逃避文明的一种手段。”
The problems are clear, but grouping these industries gives us a better way to look at the struggle of consumers, of ordinary people, to regain the upper hand. The issues of auto and gun safety, of drug, alcohol and tobacco addiction, and of hyperconsumption of unhealthy food are not as distinct as we’ve long believed; really, they’re quite similar. For example, the argument for protecting people against marketers of junk food relies in part on the fact that antismoking regulations and seatbelt laws were initially attacked as robbing us of choice; now we know they’re lifesavers.
这个问题显而易见，但把这些行业归为一类，可以让我们以一种更好的方式来看待消费者，看待普通民众这场夺回主动权的斗争。汽车和枪支安全问题，药物和烟酒成瘾问题，以及大量消费不健康食物的问题，并不像我们长期以为的那么泾渭分明；它们其实非常相似。例如，我们之所以反对公司向大众营销垃圾食品，部分原因在于：反烟法规和安全带法律最初也被攻击为让我们丧失了选择，但现在我们明白这些法规发挥了拯救生命的作用。
Thus the most novel and interesting parts of Freudenberg’s book are those that rephrase the discussion of rights and choice, because we need more than seatbelt and antismoking laws, more than a few policies nudging people toward better health. Until now (and, sadly, perhaps well into the future), corporations have been both more nimble and more flush with cash than the public health arms of government. “What we need,” Freudenberg said to me, “is to return to the public sector the right to set health policy and to limit corporations’ freedom to profit at the expense of public health.”
因此，弗罗伊登贝格书中最新颖、最有趣的部分，就是对有关权利和选择的讨论进行了重新表述，因为我们需要的不仅仅是安全带和反烟法律，不仅仅是几个促进公众健康的政策。迄今为止（可悲的是，未来可能也仍然是这样），企业一直都比政府的公共卫生部门更加灵活，而且它们的现金也更充裕。“我们需要的是，把制定卫生政策的权利交还给公共部门，并且限制企业不惜牺牲公众健康谋取利益的自由，”弗罗伊登贝格对我说。
Redefining the argument may help us find strategies that can actually bring about change. The turning point in the tobacco wars was when the question changed from the industry’s — “Do people have the right to smoke?” — to that of public health: “Do people have the right to breathe clean air?” Note that both questions are legitimate, but if you address the first (to which the answer is of course “yes”) without asking the second (to which the answer is of course also “yes”) you miss an opportunity to convert the answer from one that leads to greater industry profits to one that has literally cut smoking rates in half.
重新定义这场讨论可以帮我们找到真正能带来改变的策略。当烟草业提出的问题“人有吸烟的权利吗？”变成跟公众健康有关的问题“人有呼吸清新空气的权利吗？”的时候，烟草战争的转折点就到来了。请注意，这两个问题都是合理的，但如果你只提出前一个（对这个问题的答案当然是“是”）而不提出后一个（这个问题的答案当然也是“是”），你就会错失把前一个回答转化为后一个回答的机会：前一个回答可以让企业赚到更多的利润，后一个回答则已经导致吸烟率降低了一半。
Similarly, we need to be asking not “Do junk food companies have the right to market to children?” but “Do children have the right to a healthy diet?” (In Mexico, the second question has been answered positively. Shamefully, we have yet to take that step.) The question is not only, “Do we have a right to bear arms?” but also “Do we have the right to be safe in our streets and schools?” In short, says Freudenberg: “The right to be healthy trumps the right of corporations to promote choices that lead to premature death and preventable illnesses. Protecting public health is a fundamental government responsibility; a decent society should not allow food companies to convince children to buy food that’s bad for them or to encourage a lifetime of unhealthy eating.”
同样，我们要问的不是“垃圾食品企业有权利向儿童宣传产品吗？”而是“你的孩子有食用健康食品的权利吗？”（在墨西哥，后一个问题已经获得了肯定回答。遗憾的是，我们还没有迈出这一步。）问题不仅是“我们有携带武器的权利吗？”也要包括“我们是否有安全待在街道上和学校里的权利？”总之，弗罗伊登贝格说：“保持健康的权利高于企业宣传某些产品的权利，这些产品导致人们过早死亡，让他们患上可以预防的疾病。保护公众健康是政府的基本责任之一；文明社会不应该让食品企业诱导孩子购买不利于健康的食品，不应该让他们鼓励人们培养不健康的饮食习惯。”
Oddly, these are radical notions. But aren’t they less “un-American” than allowing a company to maximize its return on investment by looking to sell to children or healthy adults in ways that will cause premature mortality? As Freudenberg says, “Shouldn’t science and technology be used to improve human well-being, not to advance business goals that harm health?” Two other questions that can be answered “yes.”
奇怪的是，这些算激进的理念。但是，相对于让企业宣传一些可以导致过早死亡的产品，向儿童或健康成人推广这些产品，以便最大限度地提高投资回报率来说，这些理念其实更符合“美国作风”吧？正如弗罗伊登贝格所说，“科学和技术应该是用来改善人类福祉的，而不是用来推动危害公众健康的商业目标的吧？”这两个问题的回答也是“是的”。