NEW DELHI — Narendra Modi, the man expected to become India’s next prime minister, swept into the capital on Saturday morning in a triumphal procession to the colonial bungalows here that still serve as India’s power center and promised that he “will try to make India self-reliant and strong.”
新德里——周六上午，预计会成为印度下一任总理的纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)跟随一支庆祝胜利的游行队伍进入了这里的一些殖民地时代修建的平房，这些平房依然是印度的权力中心。莫迪承诺，他“将努力让印度变得自立、强大”。
Mr. Modi, who engineered a historic victory over India’s long-governing Gandhi family, was surrounded at several places along the route by well-wishers who chanted paeans to him. When he stopped to greet the crowds, they showered him with rose petals.
莫迪策划了对长期执掌印度的甘地家族的历史性胜利。在游行队伍途经的几个地方，莫迪被祝福他的人群所包围，人们向他唱起了赞歌。当他停下来和人群打招呼时，人们向他抛洒玫瑰花瓣。
Mr. Modi gave a brief speech at the headquarters of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which on Friday won a decisive majority in Parliament. It is the first time in India’s history that any party other than the Indian National Congress Party, led by the Gandhi family, has managed such a feat.
莫迪在人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)总部发表了简短的讲话，该党于周五在议会赢得了决定性的多数席位。这是印度历史上首次有甘地家族领导的印度国民大会党(Indian National Congress Party)之外的政党取得这样的成绩。
“I am thankful to you for the way in which you received me with so much gratitude from the airport,” Mr. Modi said.
“谢谢你们这样来欢迎我，从还在机场的时候开始，我心里就充满了感激，”莫迪说。
After a meeting of top party members, Mr. Modi departed for Varanasi, the holiest city in Hinduism, where he won election to the lower house of Parliament. He went to the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple, which is devoted to Lord Shiva, a virile, muscular and meditative god. He then went to the banks of the Ganges, India’s holiest river and one Mr. Modi has promised to clean. In some spots, the Ganges is little more than an open sewer.
同党内高级成员会面后，莫迪启程前往印度教圣城瓦拉纳西，他是在那里当选为议会下院议员的。他去了著名的Kashi Vishwanath神庙，那里供奉的是英武强壮、沉思默想的湿婆神(Lord Shiva)。之后他去了印度圣河恒河的岸边，他已承诺将清理恒河。在一些地方，恒河跟一条敞口的下水道相去无几。
One of the onlookers, Rajeev Bind, 26, had come from a village nearly 30 miles away from Varanasi because Mr. Modi “is the only politician who can make this country strong and powerful.”
观众行列之中有26岁的拉杰夫·宾德(Rajeev Bind)，他是从离瓦拉纳西将近30英里（约合50公里）的一个村子赶来的，因为莫迪“是唯一一个能让这个国家强大起来的政治家”。
“All politicians say that they will do something but when he speaks you believe it,” Mr. Bind said. “He makes you believe.”
“所有政客都说自己会有所作为，但当他这么说的时候，你会相信他，”宾德说，“他能赢得你的信任。”
The electricity in much of Varanasi was disrupted Friday as the election returns made clear the size of Mr. Modi’s victory, and the power failure led many to wonder whether Mr. Modi could truly fix India’s huge problems.
周五，当选举结果清楚表明莫迪大获全胜时，瓦拉纳西很多地方的电力供应中断，这次电力供应中断让许多人怀疑，莫迪能否真正解决印度的种种重大问题。
While Mr. Modi was accepting congratulations in New Delhi, not far away Manmohan Singh, who has been India’s prime minister for 10 years, delivered a brief farewell address, tendered his resignation and wished the new government well.
莫迪在新德里接受祝贺时，任印度总理一职10年的曼莫汉·辛格(Manmohan Singh)在不远的地方发表了简短的告别演说，其间正式提出辞职，并祝福新一届政府一切顺利。
“I owe everything to this country, this great land of ours where I, an underprivileged child of Partition, was empowered enough to rise and occupy high office,” Mr. Singh said. “It is both a debt that I will never be able to repay and a decoration that I will always wear with pride.”
辛格说，“我的一切都来自这个国家，来自这片属于我们的伟大土地，在这里，我这个成长于印巴分治(Partition)时期的贫困儿童获得了授权，晋升到显要的职位。这是我永远都还不清的债，也是我将会终生佩戴的荣誉勋章。”
Mr. Singh will retire to a simple bungalow and a $1,000-a-month pension. He is widely acknowledged to be an honest man who presided over a government riddled with corruption. And his humble acceptance of his role as a seat-warmer for Rahul Gandhi, the scion of the country’s leading political family, was eventually seen as undercutting the institution of the prime minister’s office.
辛格退休后将住进一座简朴的平房，每个月有1000美元（约合6230元人民币）的退休金。他被公认为一名正直之士，执掌着一个腐败肆虐的政府。他谦卑地接受了为印度主要政治家族的子孙拉胡尔·甘地(Rahul Gandhi)暖位的角色，人们最终认为，他的这一举动削弱了总理一职的地位。
It is an office that Mr. Modi has promised to restore, and in his own speech he said his victory “belongs to 1.25 billion Indians.”
莫迪承诺要恢复总理一职的地位，并曾在演讲中表示，他的胜利“属于12.5亿印度人”。
Among those listening to Mr. Modi was Byas Tiwari, 68, who struggled to make his way through the throng of party supporters. Mr. Tiwari took a train on Friday night from a distant village in a neighboring state so that he could see Mr. Modi with his own eyes. He said that he had not eaten or bathed for nearly 30 hours.
68岁的拜厄斯·蒂瓦里(Byas Tiwari)聆听了莫迪的演讲，他费尽九牛二虎之力才从人民党的众多支持者当中挤出了一条路。蒂瓦里于上周五晚从临近一个邦的偏远村子乘火车赶到了这里，为的是亲眼看到莫迪本人。他说，他已经将近30个小时没吃东西、没洗澡了。
Mr. Modi “is an honest politician, and I had prayed to God to give him a huge mandate,” Mr. Tiwari said.
蒂瓦里说，“莫迪是一位可靠的政治人物，我已向神祈祷赋予他巨大的权力。”
Like hundreds of millions of others, Mr. Tiwari has high hopes for Mr. Modi. For instance, Mr. Tiwari said he believed that Mr. Modi would provide pensions to old people like him.
和其他数亿民众一样，蒂瓦里也对莫迪寄望甚高。例如，蒂瓦里说，他相信莫迪会给他这样的老人提供养老金。