NEW YORK — Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India, sold himself on Sunday as a onetime tea vendor who wanted to lift India to glory by cleaning up the country, clearing the way for business and preparing its young citizens to be the work force of an aging world. His speech at Madison Square Garden telegraphed a wish list on the eve of his first meeting with President Obama, while also deftly rallying an influential diaspora to his side.
纽约——周日，印度总理纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)为自己做了一次推销。他塑造的自我形象是，一名曾经的卖茶小贩，如今希望带领印度走向辉煌：他要把印度变干净、为商业活动扫清障碍，并让年轻的国民准备好成为老龄化世界的劳动力大军。在与奥巴马总统进行首次会晤的头一天晚上，他在麦迪逊广场花园发表的这番演讲形成了一份愿望清单，同时还巧妙地拉拢了一群颇有影响力的移民。
Mr. Modi addressed a wildly enthusiastic audience that was largely made up of Indian-Americans, and played skillfully to their sentiments. He reminded the crowd of the taunts they had heard for years that India was a land of snake charmers, and he offered lavish praise for their success in the United States.
莫迪的听众热情高涨，其中大多是印度裔美国人。他颇为娴熟地迎合了这些人的情绪。他提醒众人那种长久流传的关于印度为“耍蛇者国度”的奚落，而且还对他们在美国取得的成就不吝嘉许。
His remarks were directed equally at the folks back home, where Mr. Modi won a sweeping electoral victory in May, and at American officials and investors he is wooing.
莫迪的话同样也针对印度国内民众——今年5月，他在选举中大获全胜——以及他正试图讨好的美国官员和投资者。
In an hourlong speech that was signature Modi, complete with rhetorical flourishes, soaring arms, and a good deal of snarkiness, the prime minister made fun of those who say he lacks “big vision.”
这次演讲充分展现了莫迪的个人色彩：长达一小时，不乏华丽的辞藻、高举的双臂，以及嬉笑怒骂。他取笑了那些说他缺乏“远见”的人。
“I tell them, ‘My friends, I came here selling tea,’ ” he said, and paused, as the audience leapt to its feet and clapped. “I’m a small man. My mind is busy doing small things.”
“我告诉他们，‘朋友们，我是来卖茶的，’”他说，然后稍作停顿。观众们兴奋不已，纷纷鼓掌。“我是个小人物。我脑袋里忙乎的都是小事。”
Mr. Modi is visiting at a time when India and the United States are each seeking big things from the other. Theirs was supposed to be what Mr. Obama once called the defining “partnership” of the 21st century. The relationship has withered since then, though, and both Washington and Delhi are trying urgently now to repair it, showering each other with the diplomatic equivalent of Champagne and roses during Mr. Modi’s five-day visit to America.
然而，莫迪到访的时机，正值印度和美国都希望能从对方取得巨大收获。印度的目标应该是奥巴马曾经说过的决定21世纪走向的“合作伙伴关系”。不过话音刚落，双方关系便开始恶化。如今，两国政府都迫切希望能修复关系。在莫迪为期五天的美国之行中，双方不断以外交礼遇相互示好，就像是给心上人赠送香槟和玫瑰一样。
He has met with two mayors and three governors, and more than two dozen members of Congress attended his event at the Garden.
莫迪会见了两位市长和三位州长，还有20多位国会议员出席了他在麦迪逊广场花园的活动。
He is scheduled to meet on Monday with 11 chief executives from companies like Boeing, Google and Goldman Sachs, and then to speak at the Council on Foreign Relations.
周一，他将会见来自波音(Boeing)、谷歌(Google)和高盛(Goldman Sachs)等公司的11名首席执行官，然后再到对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)发表讲话。
An intimate dinner is planned with Mr. Obama on Monday evening (though Mr. Modi’s aides have let it be known that he is fasting for a Hindu festival called Navratri), as well as lunch on Tuesday at the State Department and tea with Speaker John A. Boehner. His itinerary also includes a meeting with Hillary Rodham Clinton.
周一傍晚，莫迪将与奥巴马共赴私人晚宴（虽然幕僚透露，他正在为印度教的九夜节[Navratri]禁食）；周二，他将在国务院享用午餐，并与众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)喝茶。按计划，他还将会见希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)。
Mr. Modi is here to sell a new New India, with himself as the man who can be trusted to deliver on its promise. But it remains to be seen whether he is willing or able to bridge India’s wide differences with the United States on tax policy, climate change, outsourcing, intellectual property rights and other issues. Nor has India proved to be a trusted partner (India avoids the word “ally”) on American foreign policy priorities, including the conflict in Syria.
莫迪来到这里，是为了宣传一个新的“新印度”，而他自己则是值得信赖的能实现其潜能的那个人。然而，他是否愿意，抑或是否有能力弥合印度与美国在税收政策、气候变化、外包业务、知识产权等问题上的巨大差异？这些仍然有待观察。此外，在叙利亚冲突等美国外交政策领域的当务之急上，印度也尚未证明自己是一个值得信赖的合作伙伴（印度不喜欢“盟友”这个词）。
R. Nicholas Burns, who was a top State Department official in the administration of George W. Bush, put the question this way: “Can we reset, reboot, revive — use your word — this relationship? We have to.”
乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的国务院高级官员R·尼古拉斯·伯恩斯(R. Nicholas Burns)是这样表述这个问题的：“我们能否重调、重启、重振——用你们的话说——这一关系？我们必须做到。”
Mr. Modi is keen to attract business deals that will create jobs in India, one of his main campaign promises in a nation where every month a million young people turn 18 and join the labor force. For their part, American officials and executives want Mr. Modi to remove many of the numerous obstacles that foreign companies face in doing business in India.
莫迪非常希望能吸引到将会为印度创造就业机会的商业往来。在印度，每个月都有100万名刚满18岁的年轻人加入劳动力大军，而创造就业机会是莫迪竞选时的一个主要承诺。美国官员和企业高管则希望莫迪能够移除外国企业在印度从事商业活动时所面临的诸多障碍。
“The biggest thing the prime minister can do is to re-establish trust,” said Ajay Banga, chief executive of MasterCard, who has championed the cause of American business in India.
万事达(MasterCard)首席执行官阿贾伊·邦加(Ajay Banga)说，“总理能做的最重要的事情是重新建立信任。”邦加大力支持美国企业在印度发展。
Stephen Ezell of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation said that Mr. Modi seemed to be the most business-friendly prime minister in India’s recent history, but that he had yet to take action on matters like trade policy and taxes.
信息技术创新基金会(Information Technology and Innovation Foundation)的斯特芬·埃泽尔(Stephen Ezell)表示，莫迪似乎是印度近期历史中最支持商业发展的总理，但他还没有就贸易政策及税收等事宜采取行动。
“If he is truly going to deliver on that vision, then he is going to have to make some very difficult decisions,” Mr. Ezell said.
“如果他当真准备实现这一愿景，那他就必须做出一些非常艰难的决定，”埃泽尔说。
Mr. Modi received resounding applause on Sunday for a promise to clear away red tape facing new businesses.
莫迪在周日的演讲中承诺清除新公司面临的繁杂规定，引发热烈的掌声。
The stated purpose of Mr. Modi’s trip was to address the United Nations General Assembly, but every stop he has made in New York has been tailored to send messages to specific audiences.
莫迪美国之行的正式任务是在联合国大会上发表讲话，但在纽约的每一站都经过了精心策划，以便给特定的观众群传达讯息。
One of his first was at the 9/11 Memorial in Lower Manhattan, signaling India’s commitment to combating extremist groups. He has not said whether India supports the American-led airstrikes against insurgents in Iraq and Syria, but that issue is certain to come up in his meetings in Washington, administration officials have said.
他的首批活动中包括在曼哈顿下城参观9·11纪念馆，释放出印度致力于打击极端组织的信号。奥巴马政府的官员表示，莫迪还没有说明印度是否支持美国牵头的针对伊拉克和叙利亚叛乱分子的空袭，但他在华盛顿的会晤中肯定会遇到这个议题。
India has not taken a side in the war in Syria, and it continues to do business with Iran. But in steps that American officials have noted, Mr. Modi has improved relations with Japan, cautioned China against expansionism and signaled that he can be trusted as a friend to the United States in fighting terror. He met with the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, on the sidelines of the General Assembly.
印度在叙利亚战争问题上也没有表明态度，而且继续在与伊朗进行贸易往来。但美国官员注意到，莫迪逐步改善了与日本的关系，警告中国不要扩张，并传达出自己在反恐方面是一个值得信赖的朋友的信号。他与以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)在联合国大会的边会上举行了会晤。
Both publicly and privately, Mr. Modi has listed his own priorities for India: building toilets, expanding Internet broadband access in the countryside, training young people for work and cleaning up the Ganges, a holy river in Hindu scripture.
在公开场合和私底下，莫迪都列出了他眼中的印度的当务之急：建造厕所、扩大乡村地区的互联网宽带接入、为年轻人提供工作培训，以及清理恒河——印度教典籍中的圣河。
“He is projecting an image of India that we haven’t seen in a while — that is, an India as a global player,” said Vishakha Desai, a former president of the Asia Society, who attended the Madison Square Garden speech on Sunday.
亚洲协会(Asia Society)前会长丁文嘉(Vishakha Desai)出席了周日在麦迪逊广场花园的演讲。她说，“他将印度塑造成全球性的势力，我们有很长一段时间没有看到印度的这种形象了。”
She noted that seeing the V.I.P. seats at the speech packed with members of Congress and other dignitaries made the audience feel important, as though its “clout in America is noticed.”
她指出，看到演讲现场的VIP席位坐满了国会议员及其他显要人物，使观众们感觉自己很重要，仿佛印度“在美国的影响力受到了关注”。
Mr. Modi’s emphasis on prosperity and cleanliness appealed to Rohit Sehgal of Secaucus, N.J. He said he hoped the changes Mr. Modi was promising would get his daughter’s generation to stop complaining about the roads and the garbage in India. “I want my daughter to want to go back to her country,” he said.
莫迪重视繁荣与洁净的态度吸引了新泽西州锡考克斯的罗希特·塞加尔(Rohit Sehgal)。他表示，希望莫迪承诺的改变，会使他女儿这代人不再抱怨印度的道路和垃圾。他说，“我希望女儿愿意回到自己的祖国。”
Not everyone was impressed. Outside the arena, a small group of protesters held banners denouncing Mr. Modi, who was chief minister of Gujarat in 2002 when sectarian rioting racked the state. He could not get a visa to visit the United States for nearly 10 years because of accusations that he had done too little to stop the violence.
并非每个人都被打动。在会场外，一小群抗议者举着谴责莫迪的标语牌。2002年古吉拉特邦爆发宗派暴乱时，莫迪正担任该邦首席部长。在将近10年的时间里，他无法获得美国的签证，因为外界指责他没有采取什么举措来阻止暴力活动。