When Detroit declared bankruptcy, or at least tried to — the legal situation has gotten complicated — I know that I wasn’t the only economist to have a sinking feeling about the likely impact on our policy discourse. Was it going to be Greece all over again?
当底特律宣布破产，或者至少说尝试破产时（法律问题让情况变得复杂），我就知道，除了自己以外，会有不少经济学家对于此事可能会对美国政策话语产生的影响感到不安。是不是又要大谈特谈希腊了？
Clearly, some people would like to see that happen. So let’s get this conversation headed in the right direction, before it’s too late.
很显然，有些人乐于见到这种情况。那么我们就趁早让讨论转向正确的方向吧。
O.K., what am I talking about? As you may recall, a few year ago Greece plunged into fiscal crisis. This was a bad thing, but should have had limited effects on the rest of the world; the Greek economy is, after all, quite small (actually, about one and a half times as big as the economy of metropolitan Detroit). Unfortunately, many politicians and policy makers used the Greek crisis to hijack the debate, changing the subject from job creation to fiscal rectitude.
我说的是什么意思呢？读者或许还能回想起来，几年前希腊陷入了财政危机。这件事情很糟糕，但对于世界其他地区的影响，本来却应该很有限。毕竟，希腊经济规模相当小，实际上只是大约相当于底特律地区经济规模的1.5倍。不幸的是，很多政客和政策制定者利用希腊危机劫持了政策辩论，把主题从创造就业转换成了财政纪律。
Now, the truth was that Greece was a very special case, holding few if any lessons for wider economic policy — and even in Greece, budget deficits were only one piece of the problem. Nonetheless, for a while policy discourse across the Western world was completely “Hellenized” — everyone was Greece, or was about to turn into Greece. And this intellectual wrong turn did huge damage to prospects for economic recovery.
现在来看，希腊事实上是一个很特殊的例子，对于更大范围的经济政策即使有一些参考意义，也并不大。而且即使在希腊，财政赤字也只是问题的一个方面。然而，在一段时间里，整个西方世界的政策话语完全“希腊化”了——要么所有人都像希腊一样，要么就是会转变成希腊。而且知识界的这种错误转向，为经济复苏的前景造成了巨大的损害。
So now the deficit scolds have a new case to misinterpret. Never mind the repeated failure of the predicted U.S. fiscal crisis to materialize, the sharp fall in predicted U.S. debt levels and the way much of the research the scolds used to justify their scolding has been discredited; let’s obsess about municipal budgets and public pension obligations!
眼下，严厉抨击财政赤字的人又有了一个可以误读的案例。尽管他们反复做出的美国会发生财政危机的预警一再失败，预测中的美国债务水平也大幅下降，而且很多这类人用以支撑自己的强硬抨击的研究都被戳破了，还是让我们就城市预算和公共养老金债务展开高谈阔论吧！
Or, actually, let’s not.
或者，还是算了吧。
Are Detroit’s woes the leading edge of a national public pensions crisis? No. State and local pensions are indeed underfunded, with experts at Boston College putting the total shortfall at $1 trillion. But many governments are taking steps to address the shortfall. These steps aren’t yet sufficient; the Boston College estimates suggest that overall pension contributions this year will be about $25 billion less than they should be. But in a $16 trillion economy, that’s just not a big deal — and even if you make more pessimistic assumptions, as some but not all accountants say you should, it still isn’t a big deal.
底特律的糟糕处境是否引领着一场全国公共养老金危机？不是的。州以及地方上的养老金的确面临资金不足，波士顿学院(Boston College)的专家们估计，资金缺口有1万亿美元。但许多政府部门正在采取措施填补缺口，虽然这些措施并不充分。波士顿学院的估计显示，今年的养老金缴费额会比应有水平低250亿美元。然而在16万亿美元的经济中，这个问题并不大。即使像某些会计师（并不是所有会计师）所说的，你应该做出更悲观的猜测，这也不是一个大问题。
So was Detroit just uniquely irresponsible? Again, no. Detroit does seem to have had especially bad governance, but for the most part the city was just an innocent victim of market forces.
那么底特律是不是尤其不负责任？答案又是否定的。底特律的政府治理似乎尤为糟糕，但在很大程度上，底特律只是市场力量的无辜受害者而已。
What? Market forces have victims? Of course they do. After all, free-market enthusiasts love to quote Joseph Schumpeter about the inevitability of “creative destruction” — but they and their audiences invariably picture themselves as being the creative destroyers, not the creatively destroyed. Well, guess what: Someone always ends up being the modern equivalent of a buggy-whip producer, and it might be you.
什么，市场力量还有受害者？当然有了。毕竟，热衷自由市场的拥趸总是喜欢引用约瑟夫·熊彼特(Joseph Schumpeter)的话，说“创造性破坏”(creative destruction)是不可避免的。但他们，以及他们的听众，却不约而同地把自己想象成了创造性破坏者，而不是创造性破坏的对象。可是巧得很，总有某些人会沦为现代的“马车鞭子制造商”，而这些人说不定就包括你。
Sometimes the losers from economic change are individuals whose skills have become redundant; sometimes they’re companies, serving a market niche that no longer exists; and sometimes they’re whole cities that lose their place in the economic ecosystem. Decline happens.
有时候，经济变革中的失败者是那些技能变得多余的个人，有时候是自身所服务的利基市场已经不复存在的企业，有时候是在经济环境中失去本来地位的整个城市。衰落是会发生的。
True, in Detroit’s case matters seem to have been made worse by political and social dysfunction. One consequence of this dysfunction has been a severe case of “job sprawl” within the metropolitan area, with jobs fleeing the urban core even when employment in greater Detroit was still rising, and even as other cities were seeing something of a city-center revival. Fewer than a quarter of the jobs on offer in the Detroit metropolitan area lie within 10 miles of the traditional central business district; in greater Pittsburgh, another former industrial giant whose glory days have passed, the corresponding figure is more than 50 percent. And the relative vitality of Pittsburgh’s core may explain why the former steel capital is showing signs of a renaissance, while Detroit just keeps sinking.
的确，对于底特律的情况，政治和社会失灵加剧了问题。这种失灵的一个后果是，在底特律及周边地区，就业岗位向外蔓延(job sprawl)的情况十分严重，尽管底特律地区的就业水平仍在提高，而且其他城市还出现了某种类似中心城区复兴的情况，但就业岗位还是逃离了底特律市中心。在底特律地区的现有招聘职位中，只有不足四分之一位于传统的中央商务区周边10英里的区域内。而在另一个过去的工业重镇匹兹堡地区，对应的数字是超过50%，那里和底特律一样，都已辉煌不再。匹兹堡中心城区相对而言表现出的活力，或许能够解释为什么这座过去的“钢都”能够显示出复兴的迹象，而底特律却仍在沉沦。
So by all means let’s have a serious discussion about how cities can best manage the transition when their traditional sources of competitive advantage go away. And let’s also have a serious discussion about our obligations, as a nation, to those of our fellow citizens who have the bad luck of finding themselves living and working in the wrong place at the wrong time — because, as I said, decline happens, and some regional economies will end up shrinking, perhaps drastically, no matter what we do.
所以，无论如何我们都要严肃地讨论，城市在传统的竞争优势源泉干涸时，该怎样最好地进行转型。我们也应该认真地讨论一下我们的责任：作为一个国家，我们对于那些不幸在错误的时间和地点生活、工作的公民们，负有怎样的责任。因为就像我说的，衰落发生时，某些区域的经济无论我们怎么做，最终都会收缩，或许收缩还会十分剧烈。
The important thing is not to let the discussion get hijacked, Greek-style. There are influential people out there who would like you to believe that Detroit’s demise is fundamentally a tale of fiscal irresponsibility and/or greedy public employees. It isn’t. For the most part, it’s just one of those things that happens now and then in an ever-changing economy.
重要的是不要让政策讨论像希腊问题那样遭到劫持。有很多有影响力的人想让你相信，底特律的衰落根本原因在于不负责任的财政支出，以及贪婪的公职人员。但不是这样的。在很大程度上，它只是不断变化的经济中，时而发生的此类事件中的一件。