SWAT VALLEY, Pakistan — The question for the class of 10th graders at an all-girls school here in this picturesque mountain valley was a simple one: How many of them, a district official wanted to know, had heard of Malala Yousafzai?
巴基斯坦斯瓦特山谷——这是一个风景如画的山谷，该地区一间女子学校的10年级学生面临着一个非常简单的问题：一名地区官员想要知道，他们当中有多少人听说过马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)？
The students stared at the official, Farrukh Atiq, in silence. Not a single hand was raised.
学生们默默地盯着这个名为法鲁克·阿提克(Farrukh Atiq)的官员。没人举手。
“Everyone knows about Malala, but they do not want to affiliate with her,” Mr. Atiq said on Thursday, as speculation grew that Ms. Yousafzai, who was shot in the head by the Taliban a year ago, might win the Nobel Peace Prize.
周四，也就是越来越多的人猜测一年前被塔利班击中头部的优萨福扎伊可能会获得诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)的时候，阿提克表示，“大家都知道马拉拉，但他们不想跟她扯上关系。”
In the end, Ms. Yousafzai did not win the Nobel Prize. That went to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons. But after a week of intense news coverage, during which she released her memoir and won a prestigious European award for human rights, Ms. Yousafzai’s stature as a symbol of peace and bravery has been established across the world — everywhere, it seems, except at home.
最终，优萨福扎伊没有赢得诺贝尔奖，获奖的是禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)。但在过去一周里，优萨福扎伊得到了铺天盖地的报道，出版了回忆录，并且获得了欧洲一项久负盛名的人权奖，在世界各地树立了一个象征和平与勇敢的形象。看样子，她得到了全世界的认同，除了祖国巴基斯坦以外。
It is not just that the schoolchildren fear becoming targets, though that is certainly an element in their caution. “I am against Malala,” said Muhammad Ayaz, 22, a trader who runs a small store beside Ms. Yousafzai’s old school in Mingora, the main town in the Swat Valley. “The media has projected Malala as a heroine of the West. But what has she done for Swat?”
这并不完全是因为学生们担心成为目标，尽管这肯定是他们保持谨慎的原因之一。“我不支持马拉拉，”22岁的商人穆罕默德·阿亚兹(Muhammad Ayaz)说，“媒体将马拉拉塑造成西方世界追捧的女英雄。但她究竟为斯瓦特做了什么呢？”优萨福扎伊之前在斯瓦特山谷主要城镇明戈拉的一所学校上学，阿亚兹的小商店就在这所学校旁边。
That sense of smoldering animosity toward Ms. Yousafzai, 16, in the Swat Valley — which she hurriedly left aboard a military helicopter for treatment last year after being shot — seems to be animated in part by the tensions of a rural community still traumatized by conflict.
斯瓦特山谷地区对16岁的优萨福扎伊有一种郁积的敌意，部分原因似乎是这个仍然饱受冲突创伤的乡村社区充斥着紧张情绪。去年遇袭之后，优萨福扎伊立即乘军用直升机离开了斯瓦特，为的是接受治疗。
Although the Pakistani Army forced the Taliban from Swat during a major military operation in 2009, pockets of militants remain, occasionally striking against soldiers or activists like Ms. Yousafzai.
虽然巴基斯坦军队(Pakistani Army)在2009年的一场重大军事行动中迫使塔利班(Taliban)离开了斯瓦特地区，但那里仍有一些武装分子，他们有时会攻击士兵，或是像优萨福扎伊这样的活动人士。
Many residents fear the Islamists could one day return to power in the valley, an anxiety that, paradoxically, has stoked simmering hostility toward the militants’ most famous victim.
很多居民担心，伊斯兰主义者总有一天会重新控制这个山谷，荒谬的是，这种不安情绪激发了人们对这个最著名受害者的敌意。
“What is her contribution?” asked Khursheed Dada, a worker with the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party, which governs Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, including Swat.
支持巴基斯坦正义运动党(Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf)的工人胡尔希德·达达(Khursheed Dada)说 ，“她究竟有什么贡献？”斯瓦特所属的开伯尔-普赫图赫瓦省归该政党管控。
That cynicism was echoed this week across Pakistan, where conspiracy-minded citizens loudly branded Ms. Yousafzai a C.I.A. agent, part of a nebulous Western plot to humiliate their country and pressure their government.
本周，巴基斯坦各地都出现了这样的嘲讽言论，信奉阴谋论的民众大声指责优萨福扎伊是中央情报局(CIA)特工，是西方秘密阴谋的一部分，阴谋的目的是羞辱巴基斯坦，给他们的政府施压。
Muhammad Asim, a student standing outside the gates of Punjab University in the eastern city of Lahore, dismissed the Taliban attack on Ms. Yousafzai as a made-for-TV drama. “How can a girl survive after being shot in the head?” he asked. “It doesn’t make sense.”
说到塔利班对优萨福扎伊的袭击，站在旁遮普大学(Punjab University)大门外的学生穆罕默德·阿西姆(Muhammad Asim)不屑一顾，认为这是作秀。“头部中弹的女孩怎么还能活着呢？”他问道。“这讲不通。”旁遮普大学位于巴基斯坦东部城市拉合尔。
The reaction seemed to stem from different places: sensitivity at Western hectoring, a confused narrative about the Taliban and a sense of resentment or downright jealousy.
这种反应似乎混合着多种因素：对西方胁迫的敏感，有关塔利班的混乱看法，憎恶，或者是纯粹的嫉妒。
In Swat, some critics accused Ms. Yousafzai’s father, Ziauddin, of using his precocious daughter to drum up publicity and of maligning Pashtun culture. Others said the intense publicity had cast their district in a negative light, overshadowing the good work of other Pakistanis in education.
在斯瓦特，一些批评人士指责优萨福扎伊的父亲齐亚丁(Ziauddin)利用早熟的女儿来吸引公共关注、诋毁普什图文化。其他一些人则称，过多的公众关注给当地带来了负面影响，掩盖了其他巴基斯坦人为教育做出的有益努力。
Dilshad Begum, the district education officer for Swat, said that 14,000 girls and 17,000 boys had recently started school after an intensive door-to-door enrollment campaign led by local teachers. The threat from the Taliban was exaggerated, she added.
斯瓦特地区负责教育的官员迪尔沙德夫人(Dilshad Begum)说，由于当地教师带头开展的一场力度很大的上门招生活动，最近已有1.4万个女孩和1.7万个男孩进入了校园。来自塔利班的威胁被夸大了，迪尔沙德夫人补充道。
“I have been working for female education for 25 years, and never received a threat,” she said.
“我为女性教育工作了25年，从未受到过任何威胁，”她说。
Even fellow students seemed to resent the recognition Ms. Yousafzai has received. At another school, a group of female students, assembled by their headmaster, agreed that Ms. Yousafzai did not deserve a Nobel Prize.
看样子，就连学生们也对优萨福扎伊得到的声誉有些不忿。在另外一所学校，由校长召集起来的一群女学生一致认为，优萨福扎伊不配得到诺贝尔奖。
“Malala is not the only role model for Pakistani girls,” said Kainat Ali, 16, who wore a black burqa.
“马拉拉并不是巴基斯坦女孩唯一的榜样，”身穿黑色罩袍的16岁学生凯纳塔·阿里(Kainat Ali)说。
Not all Pakistanis joined in the criticism. Many expressed pride in the bravery of their most famous teenager, who has had tea with Queen Elizabeth II in Buckingham Palace and received a standing ovation at the United Nations. By Friday there was a groundswell of support. Television stations broadcast songs lauding her work, and good luck messages flooded Facebook and Twitter. Students and women, in particular, said they had been inspired by her.
不过，并不是所有的巴基斯坦人都加入了批评的行列。很多人表示，他们为本国最著名少女的勇敢感到骄傲。优萨福扎伊曾在白金汉宫(Buckingham Palace)和伊莉莎白二世女王一起喝茶，并曾在联合国(United Nations)受到起立致敬的礼遇。到周五，优萨福扎伊得到的支持呼声一浪高过一浪。电视台播放赞扬她所做努力的歌曲，祝她好运的讯息淹没了Facebook和Twitter。许多人表示自己受到了优萨福扎伊的激励，尤其是学生和女性。
After the Nobel winner was announced, some openly expressed disappointment. In Swat, Shahid Iqbal, a music and movie store owner, said Ms. Yousafzai had made their district proud. “Malala is our daughter. She should have won the Nobel,” he said.
诺贝尔奖得主公布之后，一些人公开地表示失望。在斯瓦特，音乐及影碟商店老板沙希德·伊克巴勒(Shahid Iqbal)说优萨福扎伊成为了当地的骄傲。“马拉拉是我们的女儿。她应该获得诺贝尔奖，”伊克巴勒说。
Imran Khan, the former cricketer who heads the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party and has regularly faced criticism for his views on the Taliban, said Ms. Yousafzai represented “the struggle of girls and women everywhere against tyranny and oppression.”
前板球手、巴基斯坦正义运动党（Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf，简称PTI）领袖伊姆兰·汗(Imran Khan)经常因其对塔利班的观点而受到批评。他说，优萨福扎伊代表了“世界各地少女和妇女对专制和压迫的反抗”。
In interviews this week, Ms. Yousafzai said she was undeterred by the criticism at home, attributing it to the well-founded cynicism many Pakistanis harbor toward their political leaders. Still, she told an audience in New York on Thursday, her goal is to become prime minister of Pakistan one day.
本周接受采访时，优萨福扎伊说她并没有被国内的批评吓倒，并将批评归因于许多巴基斯坦人对其政治领袖怀有的十分合理的挖苦态度。尽管如此，周四她在纽约对听众表示，她的目标是有一天成为巴基斯坦的总理。
“I can spend much of the budget on education,” she told Christiane Amanpour of CNN, drawing loud applause. But few think it would be safe for her to return home any time soon.
“我可以把很大一部分预算投入教育，”优萨福扎伊对CNN的克里斯汀·阿曼普(Christiane Amanpour)说，她的话赢得了热烈掌声。不过，很少有人认为，近期回家对她来说是安全的。
Repeated Taliban threats to kill Ms. Yousafzai should she set foot in Swat again were being taken very seriously, said Mr. Atiq, the district official. “More fame brings more danger,” he said. “The threat is greater than ever.”
塔利班已多次发出威胁，称如果优萨福扎伊胆敢再次踏入斯瓦特，他们就会杀死她。这些威胁得到了十分认真的对待，当地官员阿提克表示。“更大的名声会带来更大的危险，”阿提克说。“现在的威胁已达到空前的程度。”
Ms. Yousafzai has the consolation of knowing that her message of education for girls now resounds across the world. When the Taliban gunman boarded her bus in October 2012, he called out, “Who is Malala?” Now, as she noted in an interview this week, her voice is heard “in every corner of the world.”
知道自己为女孩争取教育权利的呼声传遍了世界各地，优萨福扎伊感到很欣慰。2012年10月，登上她所在公交车的塔利班枪手曾经喝问，“谁是马拉拉？”现在，正如优萨福扎伊在本周接受采访时所说的那样，她的声音已传到了“世界的每个角落”。
Yet she insists that, come what may, Pakistan will always be her home. “Even if its people hate me,” she said one interview, “I will still love it.”
但是，优萨福扎伊仍然坚称，不管怎样，巴基斯坦永远都是她的家。“即使那里的人民恨我，”她在接受采访时说道，“我仍然会爱它。”