PARIS — The Fiat boss, Sergio Marchionne, has finally won complete ownership of Chrysler and can begin trying to realize his dream of building a world-class carmaker to compete with the industry leaders Toyota, General Motors and Volkswagen. At the top of the to-do list: Stanch the deterioration in Fiat’s home market and fix a glaring hole in its Asia business.
巴黎——菲亚特(Fiat)的老板赛尔焦·马尔基翁内(Sergio Marchionne)终于获得了克莱斯勒(Chrysler)的全部股份，可以开始着力实现自己的梦想：打造与丰田(Toyota)、通用汽车(General Motors)以及大众(Volkswagen)等行业领袖相抗衡的世界级汽车制造商。他目前的当务之急是：止住菲亚特在本土市场的下滑，以及修补其亚洲业务的刺眼漏洞。
Mr. Marchionne, the chief executive of Chrysler and Fiat, rescued the Detroit automaker from bankruptcy in a 2009 deal with the Obama administration that gave Fiat 58.5 percent of Chrysler and the potential to raise that stake. In an agreement announced on Wednesday, the companies said that Fiat would buy the remaining 41.5 percent from a United Automobile Workers health care trust for $4.35 billion. The deal creates a company that last year had $114 billion in sales, making it the world’s seventh-largest automaker.
克莱斯勒和菲亚特的首席执行官马尔基翁内2009年曾与奥巴马政府达成交易，使这家底特律的汽车制造公司免于破产。这笔交易让菲亚特获得了克莱斯勒58.5%的股份，以及增加股权的可能性。在周三宣布的一项协议中，这两家公司表示，菲亚特将以43.5亿美元（约合263亿元人民币）从全美汽车工人联合会(United Automobile Workers)的一个医疗信托基金购买剩下的41.5%的股份。在这笔交易中诞生的这家公司去年的销售额达1140亿美元，为世界第七大汽车制造商。
Mr. Marchionne has long held that to be competitive and profitable in the global auto market, a carmaker needs to sell at least six million vehicles annually. The Chrysler-Fiat alliance, which sold about 4.5 million vehicles last year, remains short of that target.
马尔基翁内长期以来一直认为，一家汽车制造商要想在全球汽车市场保持竞争力和盈利能力，每年至少要售出600万辆汽车。克莱斯勒和菲亚特去年总计销售了大约450万辆车，距离该目标仍有距离。
The agreement capped months of thorny negotiations and opens the way to a possible New York listing of Fiat-Chrysler shares. It also smooths the way for a relaunch of the Alfa Romeo brand in the United States.
这个协议为数月以来的艰难谈判画上了句号，也为菲亚特-克莱斯勒在纽约上市创造了条件。它还为在美国重新推出阿尔法·罗密欧(Alfa Romeo)品牌铺平了道路。
“It’s a deal that Fiat had to get done,” Harald Hendrikse, an analyst at Nomura in London, said. “As usual, Mr. Marchionne’s pulled a rabbit out of the hat.”
野村证券(Nomura)驻伦敦的分析师哈拉尔德·亨德里克斯(Harald Hendrikse)说，“菲亚特必须做成这笔交易。像往常一样，马尔基翁内出人意外地从帽子里变出了一只兔子。”
Investors welcomed the news. Fiat’s shares soared 16 percent Thursday on the Milan bourse.
投资者对这个消息表示欢迎。周四在米兰的证券交易所，菲亚特的股价飙升了16%。
To lift sales, Mr. Marchionne must look to emerging markets, analysts said.
分析师们说，为了提振销量，马尔基翁内必须把目光投向新兴市场。
Fiat already has a good presence in Brazil, enjoying a healthy 23 percent of the market, though that share is under threat from aggressive entrants like Toyota and Hyundai.
菲亚特在巴西市场已经有了不错的占有率，其市场份额达到23%，不过，这一份额也受到了丰田和现代(Hyundai)等强势竞争者的威胁。
But it has only a minimal presence in China, the world’s biggest car market. Massimo Vecchio, an analyst at Mediobanca in Milan, said the only hope of reaching Mr. Marchionne’s goal of six million vehicles was through a partnership with an Asian automaker that would allow it to gain access to the Chinese car market, the world’s biggest.
但是在世界最大的汽车市场——中国，菲亚特的市场份额却微乎其微。中期银行(Mediobanca)驻米兰的分析师马西莫·韦基奥(Massimo Vecchio)说，达到马尔基翁内600万辆目标的唯一希望，是与一家亚洲汽车公司建立伙伴关系，借此进入中国这一世界最大的汽车市场。
“Fiat is late to the game in Asia,” Mr. Vecchio said. “That’s the only way they’ll be able to recover the lost ground.” He suggested the Japanese automakers Mazda and Suzuki as possible partners.
韦基奥说，“菲亚特在亚洲的竞争中已经晚了一步。这是他们收复失地的唯一办法。”他暗示说，日本的汽车制造商马自达(Mazda)和铃木(Suzuki)可能成为菲亚特的合作伙伴。
While Chrysler is doing well in the United States, with sales rising 9.3 percent last year, Fiat is faltering in Europe. Its European sales — which include its own brand, as well as Lancia, Chrysler, Alfa Romeo and Jeep cars — fell 7.8 percent in the 11 months through November from the same period in 2012. That’s far worse than the 2.7 percent decline in the overall European market.
尽管克莱斯勒在美国市场表现优异，销量去年增长了9.3%，菲亚特在欧洲正日渐衰落。该公司在欧洲的销量——包括自己的品牌，以及蓝旗亚(Lancia)、克莱斯勒、阿尔法·罗密欧和吉普(Jeep)——2013年前11个月比上年同期下降了7.8%。大大高于欧洲汽车市场2.7%的整体降幅。
In that time, the company’s market share slipped to 5.8 percent from 6.2 percent. But the picture is even worse than it first appears, Mr. Hendrikse said. The company is overly reliant on Italy, which accounts for about a third of Fiat’s sales. Excluding the Italian market, he said, Fiat’s European market share is only about 2 percent.
在此期间，公司的市场份额从6.2%下降到了5.8%。但是亨德里克斯说，整体状况比最初表现出来的还要差。这家公司过于依赖意大利市场。在意大利的销量占菲亚特总销量的三分之一。他说，把意大利市场排除在外的话，菲亚特在欧洲的市场份额仅为约2%。
“The Fiat brand at this stage is no longer a relevant competitor in the European space,” Mr. Hendrikse said. The company, he added, is “horrendously undercapitalized and badly positioned. I don’t see how Chrysler is going to help them much in Europe.”
亨德里克斯说，“现阶段的菲亚特品牌在欧洲市场已是一个无足轻重的竞争者。”他补充说，这家公司“资金严重不足，定位很糟。我不认为克莱斯特将为菲亚特在欧洲的业务带来很大帮助”。