The front-runner in the Philippines presidential election, Rodrigo Duterte, held a large lead over his closest competitor on Monday, according to an unofficial tally of partial results.
一个非官方的部分计票结果显示，本周一，在菲律宾总统大选中领先的候选人罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)以较大优势领先于排在第二位的竞争者。
The Commission on Elections reported that with 83 percent of the votes counted, Mr. Duterte, the mayor of the southern city of Davao, had nearly double the number of votes of his nearest rival. Election officials said they would not announce the winner of the race until Tuesday, though one of the leading candidates, Senator Grace Poe, conceded defeat on Monday night and withdrew from the race.
选举委员会(Commission on Elections)表示，83%的选票已经统计完毕，南部城市达沃市市长杜特地获得的票数比排在第二位的参选者多将近一倍。选举官员表示，他们本周二才会宣布胜利者，虽然主要候选人之一、参议员格雷斯·波(Grace Poe)周一晚上承认失败并退出了竞选。
Mr. Duterte has never held national office and had been largely unknown outside the Philippines before he declared his candidacy last November. Since then, he has run a campaign light on specific policies and heavy on tough talk, earning him comparisons to the presumptive Republican presidential nominee in the United States, Donald J. Trump.
杜特地从来没有担任过全国性的职位，去年11月宣布参选之前，他在菲律宾以外的地方鲜为人知。在竞选活动中，他较少谈及具体政策，而是大量发表强硬言论，人们将他与美国的共和党候选人唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)相提并论。
Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Duterte has cast himself as an outspoken outsider, and has drawn wide criticism for his comments.
像特朗普一样，杜特地以直言不讳的局外人自居，他的言论招致了广泛批评。
He alienated many people recently by joking about rape.
最近他在强奸的问题上开玩笑，令很多人不满。
At a campaign rally, he made light of the rape and murder of an Australian missionary during a 1989 prison riot in Davao, when Mr. Duterte was mayor.
在一个竞选集会，他拿一名澳大利亚传教士在1989年的达沃监狱暴动中被强奸和杀害的事情开玩笑，当时他在该市担任市长。
“She looks like a beautiful American actress,” he said. “What a waste. They lined up and raped her. I was angry because she was raped. That’s one thing. But she was so beautiful. The mayor should have been first.”
“她看上去像是一个美丽的美国女演员，”他说。“真是浪费。他们排着队强奸了她。我很生气，因为她遭到了强奸。这是一回事。但她太漂亮了，市长应该排在第一位。”
He apologized, but his blunt speech has riled voters throughout the campaign.
后来他道了歉，但此番鲁莽言论在各地引发了选民的愤怒。
He boasts about his sexual conquests.
他还吹嘘自己在性方面的能耐。
On the campaign trail, Mr. Duterte has been accused of groping female voters during rallies and has bragged about his voracious sexual appetite fueled by Viagra. He said at a campaign event that he has two wives and two girlfriends, and admitted that he is a womanizer. He joked that he keeps his mistresses in a cheap boardinghouse and takes them to motels for sexual trysts.
在竞选活动中，杜特地被指在集会中对女性选民毛手毛脚，他还夸耀伟哥助长了他的旺盛性欲。在一个集会中，他说自己有两个妻子，两个女朋友，还承认自己是个好色之徒。他开玩笑说，他在一个低档公寓养了一帮情妇，带她们去汽车旅馆度春宵。
He has called for killing criminals.
他还呼吁杀死罪犯。
Elected mayor of Davao City seven times, Mr. Duterte has touted his record in making the city safe from crime using extreme measures. In a speech last year, he said his strategy to fight criminals was, “kill them all,” and he has said he would ignore or roll over those in his way.
杜特地曾在达沃市七次当选市长，他吹嘘自己使用极端手段降低了这个城市的犯罪率。在去年的一次演讲中，他说自己打击罪犯的策略是：“把他们全都杀死。”他说，拦路石会遭到他的无视或者清除。
His aggressive comments and violently-tough-on-crime position has earned him the nickname “Duterte Harry” — a reference to the character played by Clint Eastwood in the 1971 film, “Dirty Harry.” If elected president, he said recently, he would aggressively pursue those who break the law, vowing to kill them himself and grant himself a presidential pardon.
强势的言论和坚决打击犯罪的立场为他赢得了“杜特地·哈里”(Duterte Harry)的绰号，哈里是克林特·伊斯特伍德在1971年的电影《肮脏的哈里》(Dirty Harry)的饰演的角色。杜特地近日说，如果当选总统，他就会大力追缉违法者，他发誓要亲手杀了他们，然后以总统身份特赦自己。
Mr. Duterte has been accused of having ties to death squads that carried out extrajudicial killings in Davao during one of his previous terms as mayor, in the 1990s. In a television interview during the campaign, he appeared to confirm his involvement in the killing of criminals in Davao, and reissued his “kill them all” rallying cry.
有人指责杜特地在20世纪90年代当达沃市长的时候与一些执行法外处决的暗杀小组有勾结。在竞选期间的电视采访中，他似乎也证实了自己曾在达沃参与过对罪犯的处决，他还再次喊出了“把他们全都杀死”的战斗口号。
Some in Davao have praised his approach. “The police do their job in this city,” said Giovanni Perucho, a bus driver. “That is because of Mayor Duterte. The criminals are afraid of the mayor, but the police are also afraid. They know they have to do their job, or else.”
达沃的一些人称赞他的做法。“在这个城市，警察能管事，”公交车司机乔瓦尼·普鲁楚(Giovanni Perucho)说。“这是因为有杜特地市长。罪犯害怕市长，但警方也害怕他。他们知道自己必须做好本职工作，否则会有麻烦。”
Like Mr. Trump, he had choice words for Pope Francis.
和特朗普一样，他对教皇方济各(Pope Francis)出言不逊。
During the pope’s visit to the Philippines last year, Mr. Duterte cursed Francis and his entourage for causing huge traffic jams in Manila — a perennial issue for Filipinos who endure grinding, daily delays. Despite the fact that the Philippines is more than 80 percent Catholic, Mr. Duterte, using a vulgarity in describing Francis, said he hoped the pope would never visit again.
教皇去年到访菲律宾时，杜特地因教皇及其随从造成马尼拉大堵车而咒骂后者。菲律宾人每天都要忍受痛苦的迟到，交通拥堵是他们长期面临的一个问题。尽管菲律宾超过80%的人是天主教徒，但杜特地称他希望教皇永远别再访问菲律宾了，且在说到方济各时用词粗俗。
In January, Mr. Duterte reportedly sent a letter of apology to the Vatican, and in February, during a visit with the bishop of Bacolod City, he asked for forgiveness for his comments.
今年1月，杜特地据称给梵蒂冈写了一封道歉信，并在2月拜访巴科罗城的主教时请求原谅自己的言论。