Brusque, avuncular, and with a reputation for being overly plain-speaking, Prince Philip has over seven decades been a formidable presence at the side of Queen Elizabeth II as she made the countless round of dinners, ceremonies and other engagements expected of the British monarch.
过去七十多年里，在英国女王举行不计其数的晚宴、仪式以及其他英国君主所需履行的义务时，那个看起来唐突、慈爱、以讲话过于直白著称的菲利普亲王(Prince Philip)一直是她身边一个令人敬畏的存在。
A product of the “stiff upper lip” era, the prince, 95 — who Buckingham Palace announced on Thursday was stepping back from his public duties — has over the years produced a remarkable collection of politically incorrect, tone deaf and, on occasion, outrageous one-liners that have been gleefully recorded by generations of British journalists.
虽说出身于“绷紧上唇”的时代，现年95岁的菲利普亲王——白金汉宫周四宣布他将卸去公职——在过去多年里留下了不少政治上不正确、牛头不对马嘴甚或极端无礼的俏皮话，这些都被一代代英国记者愉快地记录在案。
We have compiled some notable examples here.
这里汇集了其中一些知名的例子。
“I declare this thing open, whatever it is.”
“我宣布这东西开幕，不管它是啥。”
— On a visit to Canada in 1969
——1969年访问加拿大
“Everybody was saying we must have more leisure. Now they are complaining they are unemployed.”
“之前所有人都在说我们必须有更多的空闲时间。现在他们却在抱怨自己失业了。”
— During the 1981 recession
——1981年大衰退期间
“It looks as if it was put in by an Indian.”
“它看起来像是一个印度人装上去的。”
— Pointing to an old-fashioned fuse box in a factory near Edinburgh in 1999
——1999年在爱丁堡附近的一座工厂里指着一个老式保险丝盒说道
“Deaf? If you are near there, no wonder you are deaf.”
“聋的？如果你住那儿附近，听得见才怪。”
— To young deaf people in Cardiff, Wales, in 1999, referring to a school’s steel band
——1999年对威尔士加的夫的失聪少年说道，他指的是一所学校的钢鼓乐队
“If you stay here much longer, you’ll all be slitty-eyed.”
“你们在这儿待得太久，会全都变成眯缝眼。”
— To British students in China, during a 1986 state visit
——1986年的国事访问期间对身在中国的英国留学生讲道
“You managed not to get eaten, then?”
“那么，看来你成功地避免被吃了？”
—  Suggesting to a British student in 1998 who had been trekking in Papua New Guinea that tribes there were still cannibals
——1998年对一名曾在巴布亚新几内亚徒步跋涉的英国学生说，那里的部落当时还是吃人的
“You look like you’re ready for bed!”
“你看起来已经准备去睡觉了！”
— To the president of Nigeria, who was dressed in traditional robes
——对身着传统礼服的尼日利亚总统讲
“So who’s on drugs here? He looks as if he’s on drugs.”
“这里有谁是吸毒的？他看起来好像在吸毒。”
— To a 14-year-old member of a Bangladeshi youth club in 2002
——2002年对一个孟加拉国青年俱乐部里一名14岁的成员讲道
“Ah, so this is feminist corner then.”
“啊，这么说这里就是女权主义角了。”
— To a group of female Labour lawmakers at a party at Buckingham Palace in 2000
——2000年在白金汉宫举行的一场派对上对一群工党女议员讲道
“We go into the red next year. I shall probably have to give up polo.”
“我们明年要出现赤字了。我可能得放弃打马球了。”
— 1969
——1969年
“We don’t come here for our health. We can think of other ways of enjoying ourselves.”
“我们不是为了健康到来这儿的。要是让自己玩得开心，我们有的是其他方式。”
— On a tour of Canada in 1976
——1976年访问加拿大
“You are a woman, aren’t you?”
“你是女的，对吧？”
— When accepting a figurine from a woman during a visit to Kenya in 1984
——1984年访问肯尼亚期间从一名女子手上接过一个小雕像时
“How do you keep the natives off the booze long enough to pass the test?”
“你怎么让本地人保持长时间不喝酒，长到可以通过驾照考试的？”
— To a driving instructor in Oban, Scotland, in 1995
——1995年在苏格兰奥本对一名汽车驾驶教练说。
1962: Philip Sails Into Sea of Mishaps
1962年：菲利普亲王海上遇险
“The Duke of Edinburgh was thrown into the sea today when his sailboat capsized off the Isle of Wight and half an hour later he escaped serious injury when the boom of a crane crashed near him.”
“今天，爱丁堡公爵的帆船在怀特岛附近倾覆，公爵落入大海。半小时后，一座塔吊的吊臂在他身边倾塌，所幸伤情无大碍。”