At his vegetable stand on a busy street in the Philippine capital, Lamberto Tagarro is surrounded by gleaming, modern skyscrapers, between which a river of luxury vehicles flows.
兰贝托·塔加罗(Lamberto Tagarro)站在他的菜摊中，菜摊位于菲律宾首都一条繁华的大街上，周围是闪亮的现代化摩天大楼，楼群之间的道路上豪华车汇流成河。
“The Philippines is the rising tiger economy of Asia,” Mr. Tagarro said. “But only the rich people are going up and up. I’m not feeling it.”
塔加罗说：“菲律宾是正在腾飞的亚洲龙。不过，只是富人飞得越来越高。我没有上升的感觉。”
Mr. Tagarro earns the equivalent of about $5 a day working before dawn and after dark, battling petty corruption to maintain his improvised sidewalk stand and dealing with rising wholesale prices for the onions and tomatoes he sells.
塔加罗每天能挣到大约相当于5美元（约合31元人民币）的收入，他起早贪黑地工作，为了保住他的临时路边菜摊，需要与小腐败抗争，还得对付日渐上涨的批发价格，他卖的洋葱和西红柿都在涨价。
The Philippines, with a 7.8 percent expansion of gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2013, has the fastest-growing economy in East Asia, surpassing even China’s. The country has a red-hot stock market, a strong currency and a steady stream of accolades and upgrades from international ratings agencies.
菲律宾的经济在东亚增长最快，甚至超过了中国的增长率，2013年第一季度，菲律宾的国内生产总值增长了7.8%。该国的股市如火如荼、货币走势坚挺，国际评级机构对该国的赞誉源源不断，也在不断提高对菲律宾的评级。
But Mr. Tagarro’s experience — of being left behind by the country’s newfound prosperity — mirrors that of many Filipinos, according to the latest government poverty and employment data.
然而，从政府最新的贫困和就业数据来看，塔加罗的经历是许多菲律宾人的写照，他们都被该国新出现的繁荣甩在了后面。
An estimated seven million Filipinos, about 17 percent of the work force, have gone overseas in search of jobs, according to the Asian Development Bank. For those who stay home, there are few options.
根据亚洲开发银行(Asian Development Bank)的数据，估计有700万菲律宾人已前往海外寻找工作，他们占到了菲律宾劳动力的17%。对那些没出国的人来说，国内的工作选择屈指可数。
Despite the rapidly expanding economy, the country’s unemployment rate increased to 7.5 percent in April, from 6.9 percent at the same time a year earlier. About three million Filipinos who want to work are unemployed.
尽管经济在快速扩展，菲律宾的失业率却从去年同期的6.9%上涨到了今年4月的7.5%。有300万左右想要工作的菲律宾人处于失业状态。
“Higher rates of economic growth over recent years have not made a serious dent in the employment problem in the Philippines,” the Asian Development Bank reported in its recent Asian Development Outlook report.
亚洲开发银行在其最近公布的《2013年亚洲发展展望》(Asian Development Outlook)报告中指出：“最近几年出现的更高的经济增长率，没能真正缓解菲律宾的就业问题。”
President Benigno S. Aquino III ran on a platform of clamping down on corruption, improving the business environment in the country and addressing widespread poverty. In his first three years in office, Mr. Aquino removed high-level government officials accused of corruption, cracked down on tax evaders and aggressively courted foreign investment.
菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)竞选时的纲领是遏制腐败、改善国内的商业环境，以及消除普遍存在的贫困。在他执政的头三年里，他罢免了受到腐败指控的高官，打击了逃税者，并竭力引进了外资。
Though Mr. Aquino’s efforts to improve the economy have received accolades, he has had less success in addressing the country’s persistent, widespread poverty.
尽管阿基诺三世改善经济的努力受到了赞许，他在消除菲律宾持续而普遍存在的贫困方面，却不怎么成功。
Mr. Aquino’s political opponents argued in advance of recent legislative elections that his actions had further enriched the wealthy and left the poor behind.
在近期的立法选举前夕，阿基诺的政治对手提出，他的行动让富人更富、却把穷人甩到了后头。
In countries like China, the rural poor increased their income by finding jobs in factories. That is rarely an option in the Philippines, and few poor people from the countryside are qualified to work in a call center.
在中国等国，农村贫困人口通过在工厂找工作增加收入。菲律宾几乎没有这样的选择，没有几个来自农村的穷人能胜任客户服务中心的工作。
The country’s latest poverty data, released in April, shows almost no improvement in the last six years. About 10 percent of Filipinos live in extreme poverty, unable to meet their most basic food needs. This is the same figure as in 2006 and 2009, the previous years when poverty data was gathered, according to the National Statistical Coordination Board.
该国于今年4月发布的最新贫困数据显示，过去6年里，菲律宾的贫困情况几乎没有改善。有10%左右的菲律宾人生活在极端贫困中，无法满足最基本的食品需求。根据菲律宾国家统计协调委员会(National Statistical Coordination Board)的数据，这个数字和之前在2006年和2009年收集的贫困数据是一样的。
According to government estimates, more than nine million extremely poor Filipino households are not able to earn the 5,460 pesos, or $135, needed each month to eat. That amount is about the same as the price of a back-row upper-level ticket to the recent Aerosmith concert in Manila, where many of the country’s wealthy could be found partying into the night.
据政府估计，有900多万极端贫困的菲律宾家庭无法挣到每月糊口所需的5460比索（约合827元人民币）。这笔钱和最近在马尼拉举行的“空中铁匠”(Aerosmith)演唱会的一张高层后排座位票的票价差不多，在马尼拉，你会看到许多富人在通宵达旦地开派对。
Poverty is particularly acute in rural areas, where growth has been sluggish in recent years even as the national economy and urban areas have expanded rapidly. The hardest hit has been the fishing sector, which has contracted. Farmers and fishermen are consistently ranked as two of the poorest groups in the country.
在农村地区，贫困情况尤其严重，近些年，尽管国家经济和城市地区出现了快速扩张，农村地区的经济增长却一直停滞不前。受创最重的是出现萎缩的捕捞业。农民和渔民一贯被列为菲律宾最贫穷的两个群体。
That is no revelation to Joel Cesista, a 26-year-old fisherman who supports his wife and infant son. A resident of Bataan Province, a poor rural area west of Manila, he cannot find factory work and has no land to farm, so he embarks on a dangerous, marginally profitable effort to find fish in the ocean about twice a month.
乔尔·塞西斯塔(Joel Cesista)对这个现实已习以为常，他是一位26岁的渔民，需要养活妻子和尚在襁褓中的儿子。他是巴丹省的居民，无法找到工厂的工作，也没有土地可以耕种，所以他从事一项危险的、利润微薄的工作，每月出海两次，到大洋中捕鱼。巴丹省位于马尼拉以西，是一个贫穷的农村地区。
“There is no permanent work here,” said Mr. Cesista. “All we have is fishing.”
塞西斯塔说：“这里没有永久性的工作。我们能干的就是打渔。”
Mr. Cesista and four other men take a 33-foot boat nearly 200 miles, or about 320 kilometers, into the South China Sea for a week at a time to fish for tuna.
塞西斯塔和其他四名男子开着一艘约10米长的船，行驶近320公里进入南海，捕捞金枪鱼，每次出海约一个星期。
On a good trip, he can earn about $200. He often earns less than that and sometimes, when expenses for fuel, bait and boat rental exceed the catch, he is paid nothing at all. Other times, he is just glad to make it home alive.
顺利时，他能挣上约200美元。他往往挣得少于这个数，有时，当燃料费、鱼饵和租船费用超过他的捕捞所得时，他根本挣不着钱。其他时候，他为能活着回家而满足。
“We have almost sunk in storms,” he said. “We have no radio and no one to rescue us, except the other fishermen.”
他说：“我们几乎在风暴中沉没。我们没有无线电通讯设备，除了其他渔民，没人来救我们。”
The Philippine government is trying to address poverty in the country through general economic development, but also through direct intervention.
菲律宾政府正在设法消除农村的贫困，手段既包括提高经济发展的总体水平、也包括直接的干预。
Since 2008, with the support of international organizations, the country has had a conditional cash-transfer program that gives money to the country’s poorest people in return for actions like keeping their children in school.
自从2008年以来，在国际组织的支持下，菲律宾已经出台了有条件的现金转移计划，该计划给农村的赤贫人口提供现金，条件是他们采取某些行动，比如让孩子继续读书。
The program, which is assisting nearly four million families, has received positive reviews from international organizations, but it has also been besieged by allegations of corruption in the distribution of payments. Though the program is not denting national poverty figures, the government continues to support it, arguing the poverty rate would be even worse without the transfers.
有400万户家庭正在接受该计划的援助，该计划已经获得国际组织的正面评价，不过，该计划在发钱的问题上，受到大量的腐败指控。尽管该计划没有削减国家的贫困数据，政府依然继续支持它，理由是如果没有转移支付计划，贫困率甚至会更糟。
Julita Cabading, 56, a Manila resident with a college degree in accounting, had hoped to benefit from one of the government’s antipoverty programs. She said she had not been able to find work as an accountant because employers preferred to hire younger people, and she could not afford training to improve her job skills.
56岁的尤莉塔·卡巴丁(Julita Cabading)是马尼拉市民，她拥有会计专业大专学位，曾希望从政府的某个反贫困项目中得益。她说，作为一名会计，她一直找不到工作，这是因为雇主们倾向于雇佣更年轻的员工，她负担不起培训费用来提高她的工作技能。
So Mrs. Cabading earns the equivalent of about $3 a day selling newspapers, pens and gum along the sidewalk in Manila. When she applied for government assistance, she was told that she would need to wait at home as long as two months for a government representative to interview her.
所以，卡巴丁在马尼拉的人行道边叫卖报纸、笔和口香糖，她每天能挣大约3美元左右。当她申请政府援助时，她被告知，需要在家等上长达两个多月的时间，才能轮到她与政府代表面谈的机会。
She was unable do this because she had to work at her small stand to pay her rent. She has since borrowed from a local lender and now she is in a common poverty trap in the Philippines: She is working at subsistence wages, without government help, to survive and pay off her loans.
她没法这么做，这是因为她必须在小摊上工作，以支付房租。自那之后，她从当地的放贷人那里借了钱，现在，她处于菲律宾普遍存在的某种贫困陷阱之中：在没有政府帮助的情况下，她做着一份只够糊口的工作，以维持生存、偿还贷款。
“The Philippines is improving,” she said while waiting for the next customer at her small stand. “But it hasn’t reached me yet.”
“菲律宾在改善，不过还没有触及到我。”她一边在小摊上等着下一位顾客、一边说道。