TACLOBAN, the Philippines — Richard Pulga, a 27-year-old farmer with thick black hair and a gentle manner, has been lying on a hard steel bed in a dark hallway of the main hospital here since Saturday with a shattered lower right leg, abdominal pain and his right eye filling with blood.
菲律宾塔克洛班——27岁的农民理查德·普尔加(Richard Pulga)有着一头浓密的黑发，举止文雅。从周六开始，他一直躺在一张硬邦邦的钢床上，待在本地主要医院的漆黑走廊里。他右小腿断裂、腹痛、右眼充血。
One of the first victims of Typhoon Haiyan to be brought to the Eastern Visayas Regional Medical Center, Mr. Pulga was given just an intravenous drip — a bag of saline solution to prevent dehydration. No painkillers, no antibiotics, not even antiseptic to dress the purple, bulging wound on his calf.
作为东维萨亚斯地区医疗中心(Eastern Visayas Regional Medical Center)接收的第一批台风“海燕”(Typhoon Haiyan)伤员之一，普尔加只得到了静脉注射治疗，摄入了一袋生理盐水，防止脱水。没有止痛药，没有抗生素，连抗菌剂都没有，没法清理他腿上那个正在变大的紫色伤口。
He needs an X-ray to assess the damage to his leg. Miraculously, the hospital’s X-ray machine made it intact through the typhoon and accompanying storm surge, which partly flooded the hospital’s main floor.
他需要用X光检查腿上的伤。经历了台风和伴生的风暴潮之后，这家医院的X光机奇迹般地完好无损。风暴潮导致这家医院的大厅部分被淹。
But the hospital lacks even the electricity to turn the machine on to check if it works. The only source of power is a gasoline generator the size of a small clothes dryer, which powers the lights in the emergency room and a simple operating room.
开机才能知道机器能不能用，但医院连开机的电都没有。唯一的电源是一个小型干衣机大小的汽油发电机，为急诊室和一个简陋手术室里的电灯供电。
Food is in short supply — Mr. Pulga receives just two small bowls of rice porridge a day. “The government should do more for me and fellow victims. It’s not enough, we’re almost starving here,” he said.
食物也很短缺。普尔加每天只能领到两小碗大米粥。“政府应该为我和其他灾民做更多工作。这根本不够，我们就快饿死在这里了，”他说。
Almost everyone in Tacloban, a city of 200,000 that absorbed the heaviest blow from Haiyan, has lost family members; Jerry T. Yaokasin, the vice mayor, estimated that 90 percent of the city’s employees were either killed or injured, or had a family member who was. Many, like Mr. Pulga, were hit by debris scattered by the typhoon, one of the most powerful ever recorded in the Pacific.
有20万人口的塔克洛班是受“海燕”影响最严重的地区。在这里，几乎每个人都有亲人遇难。副市长杰里·T·尧卡辛(Jerry T. Yaokasin)估计，该市90%的雇员要么是自己受伤或遇难，要么就是有家人受伤或遇难。像普尔加一样，许多人都是被台风刮起的碎片所伤。这次台风是太平洋上有记载以来最强的台风之一。
As he lay on the thin, striped cloth mat that was his only cushion against the bed, Mr. Pulga recounted his odyssey.
普尔加的床上只铺了一张薄薄的条纹布垫。躺在床上的他说起了自己的经历。
As the storm approached, Mr. Pulga sent his wife, 7-year-old son and 6-week-old daughter to stay with neighbors in a sturdier home, where they survived without serious injury — physically, at least. Traumatized and depressed, relatives say, his wife has not yet summoned the strength to visit him at the hospital.
风暴逼近时，普尔加把妻子、7岁的儿子和6周大的女儿送进了一处更坚固的房子，和邻居待在一起。在那里，他们幸存了下来，没有受重伤，至少身体上没有受重伤。亲戚们说，他妻子受了惊吓，意志消沉，目前还打不起精神来医院看望他。
Mr. Pulga stayed behind to guard their small, wood house. He tried to hide from the wind by hunching down behind the back of the house, only to find the wind and rain swirling in from every direction. A large coconut, accelerated to extraordinary speed by gusts that may have exceeded 200 miles per hour, rocketed through the dark and struck his leg, breaking it.
普尔加留下来守护自家的小木屋。他缩在房子背后，试图以此避风，但却发现风雨从四面八方袭来。一个大椰子飞速穿过夜空，砸断了他的腿。在时速可能超过200英里（约合320公里）的阵风的作用下，椰子的速度快得惊人。
As he lay alone and injured, the wind tore the house into little pieces and flung them into the night. He was hit by a chunk of wood that bloodied his eye and cut the right side of his face. His 16-year-old nephew, at the home of one of Mr. Pulga’s sisters, went outside to take a quick look at the storm and was struck by a piece of wood so heavy and sharp and moving so fast that it severed his leg, eventually killing him, Mr. Pulga said.
受伤的他独自躺在那里，看着大风把房屋撕成碎片，又把碎片卷进黑夜。一大块木头砸到了他，致使他眼睛充血，还划伤了他的右半边脸。普尔加说，在他的一个姐姐家，为了快速看一眼风暴，他那个16岁的外甥走出屋外，结果被一块又重又尖而且移动速度非常快的木头砸到，一条腿受了重伤。腿伤最终要了他外甥的命。
The storm snapped off most of the coconut palms on his land that help provide sustenance. It will take a few years for them to start producing coconuts again, said Luminada Florendo, Mr. Pulga’s aunt.
他家土地上的大部分椰子树都被风暴刮断了，它们本来是帮助维持生计的。普尔加的姨妈卢米纳达·弗洛伦多(Luminada Florendo)说，这些椰子树要过好几年才能重新结椰子。
Coconuts, a source of food, fiber and charcoal, become a menace during powerful typhoons. The hospital bed parked in front of Mr. Pulga’s in the hallway held a young man, Junlie Bueno, whose lower back had been broken by a wind-thrown coconut, leaving him paralyzed from the waist down.
因为强大的台风，作为食物、纤维和木炭来源的椰子树变成了一种威胁。在医院的走廊上，普尔加床前的另一张床上躺着容利·布埃诺(Junlie Bueno)，这个小伙子的腰被风卷起的椰子树砸断，腰部以下都瘫痪了。
Ms. Florendo changed Mr. Pulga’s T-shirt on Tuesday. But he has not bathed or changed his black shorts since the typhoon struck. The hospital is sweltering because most of the windows are broken and, in any event, there is no electricity for air conditioning.
周二，弗洛伦多帮普尔加换了件T恤。可是，自从台风袭来，他一直没洗过澡，也没换过他的黑短裤。医院里热得难受，因为大部分窗子都破了，不过窗子破不破都是一样，反正也没电开空调。
The hospital’s intensive care unit is closed for lack of electricity and supplies. The pathology lab was destroyed in the flood, as was the blood bank.
因为缺少电力和物资，医院关闭了重症监护室。病理实验室和血库都已毁于洪水。
The stench of putrefaction wafts from bodies buried in the debris of the adjacent neighborhood, so nauseating in large areas of the hospital that visitors and medical personnel sometimes use handkerchiefs, masks or their shirts to cover their noses. The hospital floor still has a layer of scummy mud left behind by the floodwaters, which were only calf-deep in the emergency room but more than head-high in the ground floor of the administrative wing. Trash, including broken bottles, still litters the hallways.
埋在附近街区瓦砾堆里的尸体散发出一股腐臭，医院的大部分区域都弥漫着这种令人作呕的气味，迫使来访者和医护人员不时用手帕、口罩或自己的衬衣捂住鼻子。医院的地板上依然还有一层洪水留下的泥浆，急救室里的泥浆只到小腿肚子那么高，行政侧楼底层的泥浆却高过人的头顶。走廊里丢着乱七八糟的垃圾，包括碎瓶子。
Medical supplies of all sorts, even the most basic, are in extremely short supply, said Dr. Faith Alianza, a senior doctor at the hospital. The hospital is out of antiseptic and is running out of tetanus vaccine, gauze bandages, sterile gloves and antibiotics, she said.
这家医院的资深医生费丝·阿利安萨(Faith Alianza)说，医院极度短缺各种类型的医疗物资，连最基本的物资都不够。她说，医院的抗菌药已经用完，破伤风疫苗、纱布绷带、无菌手套和抗生素也即将用完。
The hospital also needs food and drinking water, and there are not even enough candles for illumination.
医院还需要食品和饮用水，这里甚至没有足够的蜡烛照明。
“It’s really dark at night,” Dr. Alianza said.
阿利安萨说，“到了晚上，这里真的很黑。”
The hospital is busy, but not overwhelmed. Aware that it has few supplies, people have headed instead for the handful of small clinics that foreign aid groups have set up near City Hall. Those have been almost inundated with people seeking treatment for lacerations, fractures and other minor injuries, as well as tetanus injections.
医院里一片忙碌，但还没到不可开交的地步。意识到医院物资不足之后，人们已经转而奔往外国援助组织在市政厅附近设立的少数小诊所。这些诊所几乎被寻求治疗撕裂伤、骨折和其他轻伤及注射破伤风疫苗的患者挤塌了。
The International Red Cross and other aid agencies are trying to rush medical and other supplies to Tacloban, but have encountered delays. On Sunday, a hungry crowd tried to hijack a Red Cross truck convoy, which was forced to turn back.
国际红十字会(International Red Cross)和其他援助机构正在设法加紧把医疗用品和其他物资运往塔克洛班，他们的行动却被人拖了后腿。周日，一群饥肠辘辘的人试图抢劫红十字会的卡车车队，车队被迫折返。
In a different part of the hospital, a Belgian government medical team was visiting in preparation for opening a field hospital nearby. Dr. Frank van Trimpont, an anesthesiologist and the senior member of the team, said that while he had not seen Mr. Pulga, the prospects for patients with such injuries were grim.
比利时政府的一支医疗队正在勘查医院的另一个区域，为在附近开设野战医院做准备。医疗队的资深成员、身为麻醉师的弗兰克·范特里庞特(Frank van Trimpont)医生说，他虽然没见到普尔加，但他可以预见，伤势如此重的患者前景堪忧。
The abdominal pain and loss of urinary tract control are possible signs of a back injury that Mr. Pulga may not remember, Dr. van Trimpont said. More ominously, perhaps, the lack of antibiotics or even antiseptic for the leg injury make it likely to become infected.
范特里庞特说，普尔加的腹部疼痛和泌尿道失控可能是腰部受伤的迹象，虽然他自己也许不记得受了这样的伤。更为凶险的是，他的腿部伤口没有经过抗生素的处理，连抗菌药都没用过，这多半会让伤口受到感染。
“In this situation, there is not much you can do for such a man,” he said. “He sounds like a lost case.”
他说，“在这种情况下，你能为这样一名伤员做的事情不多。听上去，这像是一个回天乏术的伤患。”