MANILA, Philippines — It was classic bravado from the Philippines’ tough-guy president, Rodrigo Duterte.
菲律宾马尼拉——这是菲律宾的剽悍总统罗德里戈·杜特地的典型逞强之举。
The Maute Group, a militant Islamic band fighting government troops near the southern Philippines city of Marawi last year, had asked for a cease-fire.
去年，在菲律宾南部城市马拉维附近与政府军作战的一个名为“毛特组织”的伊斯兰武装团伙曾向政府提出停火要求。
The president rejected the overture.
总统拒绝了。
“They said that they will go down upon Marawi to burn the place,” Duterte recounted in December. “And I said, ‘Go ahead, do it.'”
“他们说，他们将打进马拉维，把城市烧掉，”杜特地去年12月提到这件事时说。“我说，‘请便，去干吧。’”
He got his wish.
他如愿了。
Hundreds of militants belonging to the Maute Group and its allies fighting under the black flag of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, seized Marawi three weeks ago, leading to a battle with the Philippine armed forces and the biggest test yet of Duterte’s leadership during his tumultuous first year in office.
数百名属于毛特组织的武装分子、以及打着伊斯兰国（又称ISIS）黑旗作战的同伙，三周前拿下了马拉维市，引发了一场与菲律宾军队的战斗，这是在杜特地上台后动荡的第一年里，对他的领导力迄今最大的考验。
A president who has focused on a deadly anti-drug campaign that has claimed the lives of thousands of Filipinos seems to have been caught unprepared for a militant threat that has been festering in the south for years.
杜特地上台后把注意力集中在禁毒运动上，这场运动已导致数千上名菲律宾人死亡，他对菲律宾南部多年来愈益恶化的武装威胁似乎毫无准备。
“The government has largely been in denial about the growth of ISIS and affiliated groups,” said Zachary M. Abuza, a professor at the National War College in Washington who specializes in Southeast Asian security issues. “Duterte has been preoccupied with his campaign of gutting the rule of law by using police and other security forces for the extrajudicial killing of drug pushers.”
“菲律宾政府在很大程度上不接受ISIS及其附属团伙在该国发展的事实，”位于华盛顿的国家战争学院教授扎卡里·M·阿布扎(Zachary M. Abuza)说，他专门研究东南亚安全问题。“杜特地一门心思地要废除法制，在禁毒运动中使用警察及其他安全部队对兜售毒品者进行法外谋杀。”
Government forces have been unable to dislodge the militants despite deploying ground troops and bombing the city of 200,000 people from the air. More than 200 people have been killed, including 24 civilians, 58 soldiers and police officers, and at least 138 militants, according to the Philippine military.
尽管出动了地面部队并从空中轰炸了这座有20万人口的城市，但政府军一直不能把武装分子驱赶出城。据菲律宾军方说，已有200多人被打死，其中包括24名平民、58名士兵和警察，以及至少138名武装分子。
Tens of thousands of civilians have fled, and much of the city center lies in ruins. The military says that it has cleared 90 percent of the city but that militants remain in three neighborhoods in the center, where the militants are mixed in with hundreds of civilians.
成千上万的平民已逃离了城市，市中心大部分地区也已成为废墟。军方表示已经控制了城市90%的地方，但武装分子仍占据着市中心的三个街区，他们混在那里的数百名平民之中。
Duterte has declared 60 days of martial law for the southern island of Mindanao, which includes Marawi and his hometown, Davao City. He has twice set deadlines for troops to retake Marawi, the country’s largest predominantly Muslim city, but each deadline has passed with the battle still raging.
杜特地已在南部的棉兰老岛宣布了60天的戒严令，马拉维市、以及杜特地的老家达沃市就位于该岛。他已经为部队收复菲律宾的穆斯林人口比例最大的城市马拉维下了两次最后期限，但期限都已过去，战斗仍在激烈进行。
On Friday, Brig. Gen. Restituto Padilla predicted that the government would retake Marawi by Monday, Philippines Independence Day. On Saturday, 13 Philippine marines were killed in a clash with militants there.
雷斯蒂图托·帕迪亚准将(Brig. Gen. Restituto Padilla)周五预计，政府军将在周一的菲律宾独立日收复马拉维市。周六，13名菲律宾海军陆战队员在那里与武装分子发生的冲突中丧生。
The militants’ seizure of the city, a bold attempt to establish an Islamic State caliphate in Southeast Asia, marks a significant advance for the Middle East-based terrorist group as well as an apparent reordering of the militant threat in the southern Philippines.
武装分子控制这座城市是伊斯兰国在东南亚建立哈里发的大胆尝试，也标志着这个以中东为基地的恐怖组织的一个重大进展，以及菲律宾南部地区武装威胁的明显重组。
For the first time, it puts the Philippines on the map with failed states such as Libya and Afghanistan as places where Islamic State allies have sought to seize territory for a caliphate, giving the group another regional flash point in its effort to spread its influence globally.
马拉维市失陷，让菲律宾首次加入到利比亚和阿富汗等失败国家的行列，这些都是伊斯兰国试图为建立哈里发争夺地盘的地方，也为伊斯兰国扩大其全球影响力制造了又一个区域性暴力爆发点。
The Islamic State has urged fighters who cannot reach Syria to join the jihad in the Philippines instead, said Sidney Jones, director of the Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict. Fighters from Indonesia, Malaysia, Chechnya, Yemenand Saudi Arabia were among those killed in the battle for Marawi.
冲突政策分析研究所(Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict)主任西德尼·琼斯(Sidney Jones)说，伊斯兰国已经在呼吁那些不能到叙利亚参加圣战的战士前来菲律宾。在马拉维战斗中被打死的武装分子中就有来自印度尼西亚、马来西亚、车臣、也门，以及沙特阿拉伯的战士。
Mindanao has long been a hotbed of insurgencies, with numerous armed groups operating outside government control. Until the siege at Marawi, the best-known internationally was Abu Sayyaf, an ostensibly Islami militant group that specialized in kidnapping for ransom, turning Southeast Asia into the world’s piracy capital, edging out the Horn of Africa.
棉兰老岛一直是叛乱的温床，这里有许多武装团伙在政府控制之外运作。在马拉维市失陷前，这里在国际上最有名的团伙是阿布沙耶夫(Abu Sayyaf)，一个自我宣称是伊斯兰武装组织、专门从事赎金绑架的团伙，该团伙已让东南亚取缔了非洲之角，成为世界上最大的海盗首都。
The Marawi siege also heralds the rise of Isnilon Hapilon, a longtime leader of Abu Sayyaf who had grown more ideologically minded over the years. Last year, Hapilon, 51, was named by the Islamic State as its emir in Southeast Asia. Previously based on the island of Basilan, he is on the FBI’s list of most-wanted terrorists, and the United States has offered a $5 million reward for his capture.
马拉维市的失陷也预示着伊斯尼隆·哈皮隆(Isnilon Hapilon)的崛起，哈皮隆长期以来担任阿布沙耶夫的领导人，近年来，他的思想变得更加意识形态化。去年，伊斯兰国命名51岁的哈皮隆为其在东南亚的埃米尔。哈皮隆以前的基地在巴西兰岛，他在联邦调查局头号通缉的恐怖分子名单上，美国为将他捕获提供了500万美元的悬赏。
Various factions have come together behind Hapilon, notably the Maute Group, led by the brothers Omar and Abdullah Maute. Educated in the Middle East, the Mautes are based in the Marawi area and recently accepted Hapilon’s leadership as emir.
几个不同的派别已聚集在哈皮隆的旗下，其中最值得注意的是由毛特兄弟奥马尔(Omar)和阿卜杜拉(Abdullah)领导的毛特组织。以马拉维地区为基地的毛特兄弟曾在中东受教育，他们最近接受了哈皮隆作为埃米尔的领导地位。
The Mautes are believed responsible for bombing a market in Davao City in September that killed 15.
毛特兄弟据认对去年9月达沃市一个市场发生的爆炸事件负有责任，爆炸造成15人死亡。
Duterte is the first president from Mindanao, and he ran last year as the candidate who could bring peace to the region. The bombing of his hometown may have inspired his angry challenge to the Mautes in December.
杜特地是首位来自棉兰老岛的总统，在去年的总统竞选期间，他曾说自己是能给该地区带来和平的候选人。他家乡发生的爆炸事件也许是激发他在去年12月对毛特兄弟做出愤怒挑战的原因。
“It’s the usual Duterte brand of bravado,” said Roilo Golez, a former national security adviser to President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, who left office in 2010. “It’s a way of intimidating the opposition. It works most of the time.”
“这是通常的杜特地型逞强，”曾在2010年卸任的前总统格洛丽亚·马卡帕加尔·阿罗约(Gloria Macapagal Arroyo)手下担任国家安全顾问的罗伊洛·戈雷兹(Roilo Golez)说。“这种吓唬反对派的手法，大多数时候管用。”
It hasn’t with the Islami in Mindanao.
但在棉兰老岛的伊斯兰问题上还未见效。
After a clash between his military and Abu Sayyaf in April, Duterte suggested that the way to stop the militants was to eat them. “Make me mad,” he taunted. “Get me a terrorist. Give me salt and vinegar. I will eat his liver.”
今年4月杜特地的政府军与阿布沙耶夫发生冲突之后，杜特地曾表示，阻止武装分子的方式是把他们吃掉。“把我气疯吧，”他骂道。“抓个恐怖分子给我。再给我点盐和醋，我会吃掉他的肝脏。”
In May, the Philippine military got a tip that Hapilon had arrived in Marawi to join up with the Maute brothers. When soldiers raided the house where Hapilon was believed to be, hoping to capture him and claim the $5 million reward, they were surprised to find dozens of well-armed militants arrayed against them.
今年5月，菲律宾军方曾得到一个消息，哈皮隆已到了马拉维市，与毛特兄弟建立了联系。士兵们突袭了一处据认是哈皮隆所在的房子，希望能抓住他、从而拿到那笔500万美元的奖金，但他们意外地在那里发现了数十名严阵以待、装备齐全的武装分子。
Muslims make up only about 5 percent of the country’s population overall but a larger proportion, estimated at 20 to 40 percent, on Mindanao.
穆斯林只占菲律宾全国总人口的5%左右，但在棉兰老岛人口中占的比例要高得多，估计在20%至40%之间。
Historic grievances among the Muslim Moro people there, widespread poverty and large lawless areas have helped create an opportunity for the Islamic State. A peace process pursued by Duterte’s predecessor, President Benigno S. Aquino III, faltered in 2015 and has remained deadlocked under Duterte.
那里的几个因素为伊斯兰国创造了有利机会，包括信奉穆斯林的摩洛人中存在的历史遗留下来的不满、广泛的贫困，以及大片不受法律管辖的地区。杜特地的前任、贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)总统在那里开启的和平进程，2015年以来一直徘徊不前，在杜特地领导下仍不见起色。
“It was not the spread of ISIS in Iraq and Syria that fueled ISIS cells in the Philippines, but the collapse of the peace process,” said Abuza, the National War College professor.
国家战争学院教授阿布扎说，“不是ISIS在伊拉克和叙利亚的扩张，是和平进程的崩溃，推动了ISIS小组在菲律宾的发展。”
The growing threat in the south will most likely compel Duterte to improve his relations with the United States, a process that had already begun with the election of President Donald Trump.
菲律宾南部日益增长的威胁很有可能将会迫使杜特地改善与美国的关系，自唐纳德·特朗普当选总统以来，菲美关系已开始有所好转。
Duterte has raged against the United States for daring to criticize his anti-drug campaign and, when President Barack Obama was in office, called for a “separation” from Washington. But Trump has shown a willingness to overlook the killings and has praised Duterte for doing an “unbelievable job on the drug problem.”
奥巴马总统还在任上时，由于美国敢于批评杜特地的禁毒运动，杜特地曾对美国发怒，宣称要与华盛顿“分家”。但特朗普表示愿意对菲律宾的杀戮视而不见，他还赞扬杜特地在“毒品问题上做得简直太棒了”。
Leaders of the Philippines armed forces prevailed on Duterte not to reduce military cooperation, including a long-standing U.S. program to provide training, equipment and intelligence to fight terrorism. Since 2001, the United States has maintained a rotating force of 50 to 100 troops in the southern Philippines to combat Abu Sayyaf.
菲律宾军方领导人说服了杜特地不要减少与美国的军事合作，包括让一个美国为反恐提供培训、设备和情报的长期项目继续下去。美国为了对付阿布沙耶夫，自2001年以来，一直在菲律宾南部保持这一支50至100人的部队。
On Sunday, Duterte said he never asked the United States for help in Marawi, and it was a surprise to him when U.S. Special Forces arrived to assist the Philippine military.
杜特地周日说，他从未要求过美国帮助解决马拉维的事情，美国特种部队来菲律宾军队时，他很吃惊。
The U.S. Embassy said Friday that U.S. personnel were helping as part of a military relationship with the Philippines that “remains robust and multifaceted.” Emma Nagy, a spokeswoman for the embassy in Manila, said, "U.S. Special Forces have been providing support and assistance in the southern Philippines for many years, at the request of several different Filipino administrations.”
美国大使馆周五表示，作为与菲律宾的军事关系的一部分，美方人员正在提供帮助，美菲之间的军事关系“仍然强大、而且是多方面的”。马尼拉大使馆发言人艾玛·纳吉(Emma Nagy)说，“美国特种部队一直在应菲律宾几届不同政府的要求，在菲律宾南部提供支持和协助，这已经好多年了。”