MANILA, Philippines — Virgilio Mabag figures there is a good chance that his meth addict brother will become a casualty of President Rodrigo Duterte’s deadly campaign against drugs in the Philippines.
菲律宾马尼拉——维尔吉利奥·玛巴格(Virgilio Mabag)认为，他那吸冰毒成瘾的兄弟很有可能死于罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)总统在菲律宾发起的致命禁毒战。
“I told him to prepare himself to die,” Mabag said.
“我告诉他要做好死掉的准备，”玛巴格说。
But Mabag, 54, who runs a neighborhood volunteer association in a sprawling Manila slum, still enthusiastically supports Duterte, saying that his policies will make the country safer and more orderly.
不过，现年54岁、在马尼拉一个占地甚广的贫民窟里运营着一家社区志愿者协会的玛巴格，依然是杜特地的热心支持者。他说杜特地的政策会让国家变得更安全、更有秩序。
“I’m delighted,” said Mabag, who was wearing a Duterte T-shirt. “This is the only time I’ve seen a president like this, who says exactly what he wants to say.”
“我很高兴，”穿着一件杜特地T恤的玛巴格说。“他心直口快，我头一次看到这样的总统。”
The rest of the world may have trouble understanding this, but Duterte still commands ardent support in the Philippines.
外界可能很难理解，但杜特地仍然受到菲律宾人的鼎力支持。
Since he took office in June promising to kill drug addicts and dealers, about 1,400 people have been killed by the police in anti-drug operations, and hundreds more by vigilantes. His embrace of violence has shocked other countries and earned him condemnation from human rights groups.
自从他在今年6月上台、承诺诛杀吸毒成瘾者和毒贩以来，已有大约1400人死于警方的禁毒行动，另有数百人死于治安队员之手。他对暴力的信奉让其他国家感到震惊，也招来了一些人权团体的谴责。
He has compared himself to Hitler (and later apologized), called President Barack Obama a “son of a whore” and joked after an Australian missionary was raped and killed that “she was so beautiful” he should have been first to rape her. He has lashed out at the pope, despite leading a nation that is overwhelmingly Roman Catholic, and cursed the United Nations and the European Union.
他自比希特勒（后来道了歉），说贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)总统是“婊子养的”，并在一名澳大利亚传教士被奸杀后开玩笑说，她“太美了”，自己本该是第一个强奸她的人。他猛烈抨击教皇，尽管领导着一个绝大多数人口都是罗马天主教徒的国家；他还大骂联合国和欧盟。
No matter. For many Filipinos, Duterte’s passionate outbursts, however crude and impolitic, are signs of his fearlessness and willingness to act. The weak leadership of previous presidents, they say, led to high rates of violent crime, drug use, woefully inadequate infrastructure and widespread poverty.
这都不要紧。在许多菲律宾人看来，不管杜特地有多粗鲁无礼，他的雷霆之怒都是无所畏惧和乐于行动的标志。他们说，以前的那些总统领导太软弱，导致暴力犯罪高发，毒品泛滥，基础设施极度匮乏，贫困无处不在。
The first national polls since Duterte became president came out this week, showing that his outbursts and the mounting body count have barely dented his extraordinary popularity. One poll, conducted in late September, found that 83 percent of Filipinos had “much trust” in him, compared with 84 percent in June, after he was elected but before he took office.
杜特地出任总统以来的第一项全国性民调的结果已于本周出炉，事实证明，时不时发个飙以及死亡人数上升几乎无损于他的超凡人气。9月末开展的一项民调显示，83%的菲律宾人“非常信任”他，相比之下，他在6月份当选为总统但尚未走马上任的时候，这个数字是84%。
The other showed his trust rating falling slightly, to 86 percent in September from 91 percent in July.
另一项调查显示，他的信任率从7月的91%轻微下滑到了9月的86%。
“His initiatives, and this includes the anti-drug campaign, are well received by the people,” said Ramon C. Casiple, executive director of the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform. “They don’t have an impact on the overall perception of his administration or presidency.”
“他的一些动作，其中包括禁毒运动，是很受人欢迎的，”政治与选举改革研究所(Institute for Political and Electoral Reform)常务主任拉蒙·C·卡赛尔(Ramon C. Castle)说。“它们没有影响人们对总统及其政府的总体观感。”
His government has paved the way for indigenous people displaced by mining and logging to return to their ancestral lands, has committed to providing free irrigation to subsistence farmers, has suspended the operations of mining companies that violated environmental protection laws and has begun a program of free checkups for the 20 million poorest Filipinos.
他的政府为那些被采矿和伐木活动弄得流离失所的原住民返回老家铺平了道路，承诺为勉强糊口的农民提供免费的灌溉设施，勒令违反环境保护法的采矿公司停业，还启动了一个让2000万最贫穷的菲律宾人免费接受体检的项目。
His support has blossomed on social media — followers on the most popular pro-Duterte pages number in the millions — which his administration has cannily harnessed.
他在社交媒体上赢得了大量支持——人气最高的那些支持杜特地的网页有着数百万粉丝——其政府精明地利用了这一点。
Social media catapulted Duterte to the presidency, says his communications secretary, Martin Andanar, and it remains a bastion of support in the face of what Andanar considers negative coverage by international and local news media.
总统府通讯办公室主任马丁·安达纳尔(Martin Andanar)说，社交媒体帮助把杜特地推上了总统的宝座，在国内外新闻媒体纷纷发表安达纳尔眼中的负面报道之际，它们依然是为杜特地提供支持的堡垒。
“It is very important for our team to maintain, and even encourage — foster — the relationship of the different social media patriots of President Duterte,” he said. “We do it by reaching out to them, they reach out to us.”
“对我们的团队而言，非常重要的一点是维护乃至促进——培育——和社交媒体上各个支持杜特地总统的爱国者之间的关系，”他说。“我们会主动接触他们，他们也会联络我们。”
Duterte’s social media team, which Andanar oversees, selects a weekly message, often tied to the news, and creates posts it hopes will be reposted and widely shared by supporters.
杜特地的社交媒体团队处于安达纳尔的管理之下，每周都会精选出一个通常与新闻有关的讯息，撰写希望被支持者转发并广泛分享的帖子。
He said he recently told followers on social media that “the crime news has been blown out of proportion, and nobody’s listening to our economic policies.”
他说他最近曾告诉社交媒体上的追随者，“关于犯罪的新闻铺天盖地，我们的经济政策都没人关注了。”
Critics of Duterte have been threatened with rape and a variety of deaths, including by hanging, drowning and, as one pro-Duterte doctor suggested to Emily Rauhala, who has written about the Philippines for The Washington Post, that she crawl back into her mother’s uterus and suffocate.
批评杜特地的人收到了强奸威胁和死亡威胁——涉及的死法多种多样，其中包括吊死和淹死，一位支持杜特地的医生还曾告诉为《华盛顿邮报》(Washington Post)报道菲律宾新闻的艾米莉·劳哈拉(Emily Rauhala)，她应该爬回她妈妈的子宫里，然后窒息死掉。
Andanar said that the administration did not condone threats of violence on social media. So far, none has been carried out.
安达纳尔说政府部门并未纵容社交媒体上的暴力威胁。迄今为止也从未有人去实现它们。
However, he said, “I cannot blame the Duterte social media patriots when they protect the president and when they do everything that they can to pounce on the enemy.”
不过他表示，“我不能因为在社交媒体上支持杜特地的爱国者想要保护总统并尽其所能地打击敌人而谴责他们。”
There are signs, in some quarters, however, that the killings have begun to tarnish Duterte’s popularity.
但在某些地方，有迹象表明，血腥杀戮已经开始拉低杜特地的受欢迎程度。
In a slum in Pasay, a district of greater Manila, on a recent Saturday, Migo Paladio, 24, stood in an alley and watched the crowds from two wakes spill out. They were for men killed by vigilantes on the presumption that they were drug dealers.
不久前的一个周六，在位于帕赛、隶属于大马尼拉地区的一个贫民窟里，24岁的米戈·帕拉迪奥(Migo Paladio)站在一条小巷内，看着来自两场守灵活动的人群往外涌去。死者是被治安队员当成毒贩杀掉的。
Paladio, a technician, said they were not dealers. He said they were among 10 people he knew who had been killed in the last three months in Duterte’s anti-drug campaign.
身为技术人员的帕拉迪奥表示，他们并不是毒贩。他说在过去三个月里，算上他们，已经有10个他认识的人死于杜特地的禁毒运动。
He voted for Duterte, but he said his support was wavering.
他当初把票投给了杜特地，但他说自己的支持立场正在动摇。
“I was wrong about what I thought was going to happen,” he said. “He’s prioritizing the killings too much. And we have six more years of this.”
“我没想到事情会是这个样子，”他说。“他太倚重杀戮。而我们还得忍受六年。”