The following is an interview Philip Roth gave to Daniel Sandstrom, the cultural editor at Svenska Dagbladet, for publication in Swedish translation in that newspaper and in its original English in the Book Review.
下面是菲利普·罗斯(Philip Roth)接受《瑞典日报》(Svenska Dagbladet)文化编辑丹尼尔·桑德斯托姆(Daniel Sandstrom)的访谈，文章被翻译为瑞典语在《瑞典日报》发表，英文原文在《纽约时报》书评发表。
“Sabbath’s Theater” is now being translated into Swedish, almost 20 years after its original release. How would you describe this book to readers who have not yet read it or heard of it, and how would you describe the main character, the unforgettable Mickey Sabbath? 
《萨博斯剧院》(Sabbath’s Theater)在出版20年后被翻译为瑞典语。对于没读过或没听说过这本书的读者，你打算怎样介绍这本书，你又会如何描述令人难忘的主人公米基·萨博斯(Mickey Sabbath)呢？
“Sabbath’s Theater” takes as its epigraph a line of the aged Prospero’s in Act 5 of “The Tempest.” “Every third thought,” says Prospero, “shall be my grave.”
《萨博斯剧院》的题词来自《暴风雨》(The Tempest)第五幕，年老的普洛斯佩罗(Prospero)的一句台词：“每过片刻便想起我的死亡。”
I could have called the book “Death and the Art of Dying.” It is a book in which breakdown is rampant, suicide is rampant, hatred is rampant, lust is rampant. Where disobedience is rampant. Where death is rampant.
我本应把这本书取名为《死亡与濒死的艺术》(Death and the Art of Dying)。这本书里有着汹涌的崩溃、自杀、憎恨与欲望。还有汹涌的反抗与汹涌的死亡。
Mickey Sabbath doesn’t live with his back turned to death the way normal people like us do. No one could have concurred more heartily with the judgment of Franz Kafka than would Sabbath, when Kafka wrote, “The meaning of life is that it stops.”
与我们这些普通人的做法不同，米基·萨博斯没有对死亡持逃避态度。没有人比他更加全心全意地赞同弗兰茨·卡夫卡(Franz Kafka)的话了，“生命的意义就在于它会停止。”
His book is death-haunted — there is Sabbath’s great grief about the death of others and a great gaiety about his own. There is leaping with delight, there is also leaping with despair. Sabbath learns to mistrust life when his adored older brother is killed in World War II. It is Morty’s death that determines how Sabbath will live. The death of Morty sets the gold standard for grief. Loss governs Sabbath’s world.
在萨博斯的这本书中，死亡挥之不去——他对其他人死亡的深重悲哀，以及对自身死亡的极大欢乐。书中有欢快的跳跃，也有悲哀的跳跃。萨博斯深爱的哥哥在“二战”中身亡，从此他学会了怀疑人生。莫蒂的死决定了萨博斯的生活方式，莫蒂的死树立了“悲痛”的黄金准则。“失落”主宰着萨博斯的世界。
Sabbath is anything but the perfect external man. His is, rather, the instinctual turbulence of the man beneath the man. His repellent way of living — he is a kiln of antagonism, unable and unwilling to hide anything and, with his raging, satirizing nature, mocking everything, living beyond the limits of discretion and taste and blaspheming against the decent — this repellent way of living is his uniquely Sabbathian response to a place where nothing keeps its promise and everything is perishable. His repellent way of living, a life of unalterable contention, is the best preparation he knows of for death. In his mischief he finds his truth.
萨博斯绝不是什么外向的人。他本质是个天生混乱的人。他的人生态度是抗拒的，他身上充满敌意，不能也不愿掩饰任何东西，又有着愤怒嘲讽的天性，对一切都报以嘲笑，他的生活超越了判断力、品位乃至对体面人士的中伤这些局限。这种抗拒的人生态度是他对这个没有希望，一切都会消亡的世界做出的独特的、萨博斯式的回应。他的人生观不可改变，这种抗拒的人生态度正是他为死亡所做的最好准备。他在胡闹中发现真理。
Lastly, this Sabbath is a jokester like Hamlet, who winks at the genre of tragedy by cracking jokes as Sabbath winks at the genre of comedy by planning suicide. There is loss, death, dying, decay, grief — and laughter, ungovernable laughter. Pursued by death, Sabbath is followed everywhere by laughter.
最后，这位萨博斯像哈姆雷特一样，也喜欢开玩笑。哈姆雷特在悲剧中还能讲出美妙的笑话，萨博斯则在喜剧中酝酿着自杀。书中有失落、死亡、濒死、痛苦——也有笑声，无拘无束的笑声。萨博斯被死亡所追逐，但他所到之处也总有笑声。
I know that you have reread all of your books recently. What was your verdict? And what was your opinion of “Sabbath’s Theater” while reading it again?
我知道你最近在重读自己的所有作品。你对它们的看法如何？重读《萨博斯剧院》时，你有什么想法？
When I decided to stop writing about five years ago I did, as you say, sit down to reread the 31 books I’d published between 1959 and 2010. I wanted to see whether I’d wasted my time. You never can be sure, you know.
正如你所说，五年前当我决定停止写作时，我坐下来重读自己从1959年到2010年出版的31本书。我想看看自己是不是浪费了光阴。你知道，你永远无法确定这一点。
My conclusion, after I’d finished, echoes the words spoken by an American boxing hero of mine, Joe Louis. He was world heavyweight champion from the time I was 4 until I was 16. He had been born in the Deep South, an impoverished black kid with no education to speak of, and even during the glory of the undefeated 12 years, when he defended his championship an astonishing 26 times, he stood aloof from language. So when he was asked upon his retirement about his long career, Joe sweetly summed it up in just 10 words. “I did the best I could with what I had.”
读完后，我脑海里萦绕着乔伊·路易斯(Joe Louis)的话，他是我崇拜的一个美国拳击英雄。从我4岁到16岁期间，他都是世界重量级拳王。他出生在南方腹地，是个家境贫困的黑人孩子，没受过教育，说不出什么漂亮话。12年来他一直保持不败之身，捍卫冠军荣誉多达26次，但他仍然寡言少语。退役之后，有人让他总结自己漫长的运动生涯，乔伊只是动人地说了这样一句话：“我就是这样的人，我尽力了。”
In some quarters it is almost a cliché to mention the word “misogyny” in relation to your books. What, do you think, prompted this reaction initially, and what is your response to those who still try to label your work in that way?
把你的作品和“厌女症”这个词联系起来已经成为一种陈词滥调。你觉得这种说法最早是怎么引起的，对于那些至今仍给你的作品贴上“厌女”标签的人，你有什么回应？
Misogyny, a hatred of women, provides my work with neither a structure, a meaning, a motive, a message, a conviction, a perspective, or a guiding principle. This is contrary, say, to how another noxious form of psychopathic abhorrence — and misogyny’s equivalent in the sweeping inclusiveness of its pervasive malice — anti-Semitism, a hatred of Jews, provides all those essentials to “Mein Kampf.” My traducers propound my alleged malefaction as though I have spewed venom on women for half a century. But only a madman would go to the trouble of writing 31 books in order to affirm his hatred.
厌女症，也就是对女性的憎恨，我的作品在结构、意义、动机、信息、信念、观点或指导原则上，都与这个词无关。反犹太主义是另一种有害的精神厌恶症，和厌女症一样，是一种大范围的普遍恶意，它是《我的奋斗》(Mein Kampf)中必不可少的一部分，这和厌女症之于我的情况截然相反。我的诽谤者声称我的书是犯罪，就好像我半个世纪以来一直都在向女性喷吐毒液。但只有疯子才会为了确定自己的憎恨去写31本书。
It is my comic fate to be the writer these traducers have decided I am not. They practice a rather commonplace form of social control: You are not what you think you are. You are what we think you are. You are what we choose for you to be. Well, welcome to the subjective human race. The imposition of a cause’s idea of reality on the writer’s idea of reality can only mistakenly be called “reading.” And in the case at hand, it is not necessarily a harmless amusement. In some quarters, “misogynist” is now a word used almost as laxly as was “Communist” by the McCarthyite right in the 1950s — and for very like the same purpose.
我正好是那些诽谤者们认为我所不是的那种作家，这就是我可笑的命运。他们所做的其实只是一种平庸的社会控制——不是你觉得自己是什么样，你就是什么样，我们觉得你是什么样，你才是什么样。我们想让你是什么样，你就得是什么样。好吧，这就是人类的主观性。把一种对现实的看法强加到作家对现实的看法之上，这种行为不过是“阅读”之误。就我的例子而言，这并不是无伤大雅的消遣。在某些方面，如今“厌女症”这个词已经被滥用了，就像和20世纪50年代麦卡锡主义时期对“共产主义”这个词的滥用一样，而且二者的目的也是一样的。
Yet every writer learns over a lifetime to be tolerant of the stupid inferences that are drawn from literature and the fantasies implausibly imposed upon it. As for the kind of writer I am? I am who I don’t pretend to be.
但所有作家都得终身学习忍耐那些被难以置信地强加给他们的来自文学与幻想的愚蠢评论，至于说我是什么样的作家？我并不伪装成自己不是的样子。
The men in your books are often misinterpreted. Some reviewers make the, I believe, misleading assumption that your male characters are some kind of heroes or role models; if you look at the male characters in your books, what traits do they share — what is their condition?
你书中的男人们经常被误读。我觉得有些评论家们错误地把你笔下的男性角色当做某种英雄或典范；你觉得你笔下的男性角色有什么共性呢，他们有什么共同的处境？
As I see it, my focus has never been on masculine power rampant and triumphant but rather on the antithesis: masculine power impaired. I have hardly been singing a paean to male superiority but rather representing manhood stumbling, constricted, humbled, devastated and brought down. I am not a utopian moralist. My intention is to present my fictional men not as they should be but vexed as men are.
在我看来，我从不关注男子气概中那种猖狂得意的气质，而是其反面，即男子气概中有毛病的一面。我并没有为男人的优越感唱赞歌，而是呈现出男性气质如何出错、受到限制和羞辱、被毁灭、被打击的故事。我并不是一个空想道德家，我的目的在于让我笔下的男人们像真实的男人一样有自己的烦恼，而不是让他们成为理想中的样子。
The drama issues from the assailability of vital, tenacious men with their share of peculiarities who are neither mired in weakness nor made of stone and who, almost inevitably, are bowed by blurred moral vision, real and imaginary culpability, conflicting allegiances, urgent desires, uncontrollable longings, unworkable love, the culprit passion, the erotic trance, rage, self-division, betrayal, drastic loss, vestiges of innocence, fits of bitterness, lunatic entanglements, consequential misjudgment, understanding overwhelmed, protracted pain, false accusation, unremitting strife, illness, exhaustion, estrangement, derangement, aging, dying and, repeatedly, inescapable harm, the rude touch of the terrible surprise — unshrinking men stunned by the life one is defenseless against, including especially history: the unforeseen that is constantly recurring as the current moment.
这些生机勃勃而又顽强的男人们又有着脆弱的一面，戏剧性就这样产生出来。他们的共性就在于，他们并不沉溺在自己的软弱之中，但也不是铁石心肠，而他们也不可避免地屈服于模糊的道德感、真实与想像中的负罪感、彼此矛盾的忠诚、迫切的欲望、无法控制的渴望、无法实现的爱情、犯罪的激情、性欲的恍惚、愤怒、自我分裂、背叛、重大损失、逐渐丧失的纯真、阵痛、疯狂的纠葛、重大判断错误、无法理解眼前的一切、漫长的痛苦、诬告、无休止的争斗、疾病、疲惫、疏远、精神错乱、年老、死亡以及一再上演的无法逃避的伤害，经历意想不到的可怕事情，受到粗暴打击——人们在生活面前，特别是在历史面前，可谓手无寸铁，这令这些坚强的男人们大为震惊。无法预料的事情在此时此刻不停地重新上演。
It is the social struggle of the current moment on which a number of these men find themselves impaled. It isn’t sufficient, of course, to speak of “rage” or “betrayal” — rage and betrayal have a history, like everything else. The novel maps the ordeal of that history and, if it succeeds, by doing so probes the conscience of the society it depicts.
在此时此刻的社会挣扎中，很多这样的男人觉得自己的心仿佛被刺穿了。当然，这还不足以达到“愤怒”或“背叛”，愤怒和背叛和任何东西一样，都有自己的历史。一部描摹这种苦难历史的小说，如果足够成功的话，就会对书中所描写的社会的良心进行探查。
“The struggle with writing is over” is a recent quote. Could you describe that struggle, and also, tell us something about your life now when you are not writing?
你说的“与写作的搏斗结束了”这句话最近经常被引用。你能不能描述一下这场搏斗，另外再给我们说说你结束写作之后，最近的生活？
Everybody has a hard job. All real work is hard. My work happened also to be undoable. Morning after morning for 50 years, I faced the next page defenseless and unprepared. Writing for me was a feat of self-preservation. If I did not do it, I would die. So I did it. Obstinacy, not talent, saved my life. It was also my good luck that happiness didn’t matter to me and I had no compassion for myself. Though why such a task should have fallen to me I have no idea. Maybe writing protected me against even worse menace.
所有人都有自己辛苦的工作。真正的工作总是非常艰苦的。我现在正好是干不了这份工作了。50年来，日复一日，我毫无防备、毫无准备地面对着下一页稿纸。写作对于我来说是一项自我保护的事业。如果不写作，我可能会死。所以我就写了。拯救我人生的是顽固，而不是天赋。对于我来说，幸运的是，幸福对我来说不重要，我对自己并没有怜悯之情。尽管我不知道自己为什么被赋予这样的职责。也许写作曾经保护我，使我免受更糟糕的威胁。
Now? Now I am a bird sprung from a cage instead of (to reverse Kafka’s famous conundrum) a bird in search of a cage. The horror of being caged has lost its thrill. It is now truly a great relief, something close to a sublime experience, to have nothing more to worry about than death.
现在的生活？现在我是一只从樊笼中跃出的鸟儿（和卡夫卡那个著名的谜题相反），而不是一只在寻找樊笼的鸟儿。被关在笼子里看上去也不那么恐怖了。这真的非常令人安慰，除了死亡之外，再无其他忧虑，这是一种近乎庄严的体验。
You belong to an exceptional generation of postwar writers, who defined American literature for almost half a century: Bellow, Styron, Updike, Doctorow, DeLillo. What made this golden age happen and what made it great? Did you feel, in your active years, that these writers were competition or did you feel kinship — or both? And why were there so few female writers with equal success in that same period? Finally: What is your opinion of the state of contemporary American fiction now? 
你属于格外杰出的那一代战后作家，他们代表了这半个世纪以来的美国文学，其中还有贝娄(Bellow)、斯泰隆(Styron)、厄普代克(Updike)、多克特罗(Doctorow)和德里罗(DeLillo)。这个黄金时代是怎样产生的，它何以如此伟大？在你活跃的时期，你是否觉得和这些作家们之间存在竞争关系或亲切感，抑或二者皆有？为什么同一时期取得同等成就的女作家那样少？最后，你对当前美国虚构文学的看法如何？
I agree that it’s been a good time for the novel in America, but I can’t say I know what accounts for it. Maybe it is the absence of certain things that somewhat accounts for it. The American novelist’s indifference to, if not contempt for, “critical” theory. Aesthetic freedom unhampered by all the high-and-mighty isms and their humorlessness. (Can you think of an ideology capable of corrective self-satire, let alone one that wouldn’t want to sink its teeth into an imagination on the loose?) Writing that is uncontaminated by political propaganda — or even political responsibility. The absence of any “school” of writing. In a place so vast, no single geographic center from which the writing originates. Anything but a homogeneous population, no basic national unity, no single national character, social calm utterly unknown, even the general obtuseness about literature, the inability of many citizens to read any of it with even minimal comprehension, confers a certain freedom. And surely the fact that writers really don’t mean a goddamn thing to nine-tenths of the population doesn’t hurt. It’s inebriating.
我同意那是美国小说的好时代，但我也说不上来它的成因。或许是因为某些东西的匮乏成就了这个时代。美国小说家对“评论”理论的态度，就算不是轻蔑，至少也是冷漠。美学自由摆脱了那些高高在上的各种“主义”与它们的那种一本正经（你能想像一种意识形态拥有自我矫正的自嘲吗，更不用说深入一段天马行空的想像？）。那个时候，写作并没有被政治宣传，甚至是政治责任所玷污；没有所谓创作“流派”；写作从广大的范围中产生出来，并没有单一的地域中心；没有所谓的同质群体，没有基本的国家团体，没有一个全国性角色；社会并不平静；此外大众对文学普遍漠不关心，许多人并没有哪怕一点阅读当代作品的理解力；这一切都给了作家一种自由。当然，对于十分之九的美国人来说，“作家”算不上什么讨厌鬼，这也有所帮助。酒鬼才讨厌呢。
Very little truthfulness anywhere, antagonism everywhere, so much calculated to disgust, the gigantic hypocrisies, no holding fierce passions at bay, the ordinary viciousness you can see just by pressing the remote, explosive weapons in the hands of creeps, the gloomy tabulation of unspeakable violent events, the unceasing despoliation of the biosphere for profit, surveillance overkill that will come back to haunt us, great concentrations of wealth financing the most undemocratic malevolents around, science illiterates still fighting the Scopes trial 89 years on, economic inequities the size of the Ritz, indebtedness on everyone’s tail, families not knowing how bad things can get, money being squeezed out of every last thing — that frenzy — and (by no means new) government hardly by the people through representative democracy but rather by the great financial interests, the old American plutocracy worse than ever.
到处都是敌意，没有真诚，太多斤斤计较令人厌恶，极度的伪善，深陷绝境，失控的激情，你可以看到那种“平庸的恶”——在那些按动按钮，令遥控武器爆炸的寄生虫身上；在那些无法说出的暴力事件的阴郁统计表格里；在对自然界无休止的掠夺里；还有那些过度监控、时时令我们困扰；高度集中的财富为那些最不民主的恶势力筹措资金；时隔89年后，不通科学的人仍在为斯科普斯案(Scopes)争讼；庞大的经济不平等现象；每个人都负债累累；普通家庭还不知道事情到底有多糟；到处都要榨取金钱——这种疯狂——政府不再是代议民主之下的民治政府（这不是什么新鲜事），而是由巨大的金融力量控制，古老的美国式富豪统治比以往任何时候都糟。
You have 300 million people on a continent 3,000 miles wide doing the best they can with their inexhaustible troubles. We are witnessing a new and benign admixture of races on a scale unknown since the malignancy of slavery. I could go on and on. It’s hard not to feel close to existence here. This is not some quiet little corner of the world.
这个国家有三亿人民，生活在3000英里宽的土地上，带着无穷无尽的烦恼，拼命努力着。我们正在见证一个新的、善意的种族融合，在奴隶制以来最大的恶意基础之上产生。我可以无休止地说下去。世道不易。这里不是世外桃源。