MANILA, Philippines — The Philippine government and the country’s largest Muslim insurgency group negotiated the final details of a peace accord on Saturday that many hope will end more than 40 years of violence that has killed tens of thousands of people and helped nurture Islamic extremism in Southeast Asia.
菲律宾马尼拉——周六，菲律宾政府和该国最大的穆斯林反叛组织就一项和平协议的最终细节进行了协商，很多人希望这一协议将结束菲律宾40多年的暴力冲突。冲突导致数万人丧生，并助长了东南亚的伊斯兰极端主义。
The agreement will create an autonomous Muslim-dominated region in the restive south of the predominantly Christian country, handing much of the responsibility for security there to local authorities as well as a large share of revenues from the region’s wealth of natural resources. The militants have agreed to disarm, with many expected to join Philippine security forces.
根据该协议，以基督徒为主的菲律宾，将在动荡的南部地区，建立一个由穆斯林主导的的自治区。地方政府将开始承担很多安全责任，同时也将从该地区丰富的自然资源带来的收入中，获得很大一部分。武装分子已同意解除武装，很多人可能会加入菲律宾安全部队。
Although many challenges to sustained peace remain — notably that some militant groups have refused to join the agreement — the deal with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front is considered a signature achievement for President Benigno S. Aquino III. Mr. Aquino has vowed to end the conflicts on the island of Mindanao that have bedeviled the Philippines for more than a century and that would eventually hinder the nation’s ability to expand its economy and catch up with more prosperous neighbors.
尽管要想实现持续的和平，还面临很多挑战——其中最值得一提的就是，一些武装团体不愿接受这份和平协议，但和摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线（Moro Islamic Liberation Front，简称“摩伊解”）达成协议，被认为是总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)取得的一项具有标志性意义的成就。阿基诺曾发誓要终结棉兰老岛的冲突，这些冲突给菲律宾造成了持续一个多世纪的困扰，并可能最终限制该国发展经济，阻碍该国赶上更为富裕的邻国。
“The agreement represents the culmination of decades of excruciating diplomatic efforts aimed at ending the conflict in Mindanao,” said Richard Javad Heydarian, a political science lecturer at Ateneo de Manila University. “This provides an unprecedented opportunity to end one of the world’s longest-running intrastate conflicts.”
“该协议象征着旨在结束棉兰老岛冲突，持续数十年的艰辛外交努力取得了成果，”马尼拉雅典耀大学(Ateneo de Manila University)的政治学教授理查德·贾瓦德·海达里恩(Richard Javad Heydarian)说。“它提供了前所未有的机会，来结束一场世界上持续时间最久的国内冲突。”
The groups left out of the agreement are the most violent in the southern Philippines, including the Qaeda-linked Abu Sayyaf, which has carried out kidnappings, bombings and beheadings for more than a decade and says it wants to set up a strict Islamic state.
未签订协议的那些组织是菲律宾南部最为暴力的组织，其中包括和基地组织(Al Qaeda)有联系的阿布沙耶夫(Abu Sayyaf)，其成员在过去10多年里进行过绑架、爆炸、砍头杀戮，并表示想要建立一个严格的伊斯兰教国家。
The peace deal is expected to be signed within the next several weeks, but analysts consider that just a formality. They say the true test of the pact will be in its implementation; a peace deal with another militant group in 1996 failed in part because of widespread corruption in the area it was supposed to control.
预计和平协议将在接下来几个星期内签署，但分析人士认为签署只是一种形式。他们称，真正的考验在于协议的实施。1996年，政府和另一个武装组织签订的协议未能得到有效执行，部分原因就是本该属于该协议管控的地区，存在着广泛的腐败。
The negotiations were brokered by Malaysia, where the deal was reached, and countries including the United States and those in the European Union are expected to help in the implementation, providing aid and advice on good governance. Those countries want to sap the strength of Islamic insurgencies in the region.
双方的协商是在马来西亚的斡旋下进行的，协议也是在马来西亚达成，美国和欧盟国家将提供援助和有关有效治理的建议，来帮助协议实施。这些国家希望能够大大削弱该地区伊斯兰叛乱组织的力量。
On Saturday, Secretary of State John Kerry offered congratulations for “concluding negotiations toward an historic, comprehensive peace agreement. This agreement offers the promise of peace, security, and economic prosperity now and for future generations in Mindanao.”
周六，美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)对“达成一项全面的历史性和平协议的协商成功结束”表示了祝贺。他说，“协议给棉兰老岛现在以及其未来的数代人，带来了和平、安定和经济繁荣的希望。”
The conflict between Muslim insurgent groups on Mindanao and the Christian-dominated government in the north of the country has simmered since the late 1800s. Every government since Philippine independence in 1946 has struggled to resolve the violence, through peace talks and sometimes military action.
自19世纪初以来，棉兰老岛的穆斯林叛乱组织和菲律宾北部基督徒主导的政府之间的冲突就在持续发酵。1946年菲律宾独立以来，每届政府都曾试图平息暴力，主要通过和平谈判，有时也会诉诸武力。
In recent decades, the conflict has claimed an estimated 120,000 lives and displaced more than two million people. It has also kept the southern Philippines mired in poverty even as the country has undergone an economic renaissance of sorts, becoming one of the fastest growing economies in East Asia, with a growth rate that surpassed China’s in some quarters last year.
在最近几十年，冲突据估计已造成12万人丧生，200多万人流离失所。菲律宾南部地区也因此深陷贫困，虽然该国整体出现了一定程度的经济复兴，成为东亚经济增长最快的国家之一，去年某些季度，其经济增长率还一度超过了中国。
“In a world looking for peaceful solutions to all troubles, we are grateful that we have found ours,” Teresita Quintos Deles, a presidential adviser on the peace talks, said Saturday.
周六，负责和平谈判事务的总统顾问特雷西塔·金托斯·德勒斯(Teresita Quintos Deles)说，“在一个努力以和平方式解决所有问题的世界，我们很庆幸找到了自己的解决方式。”
The Philippine government and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front have been working on the details of the peace deal since October 2012, when they reached a framework agreement for ending the conflict.
菲律宾政府和摩伊解从2012年10月，达成结束冲突的框架协议后，就开始商讨和平协议的细节。
Earlier interim agreements dealt with sharing power and resources. Under those deals, the national government will retain authority over national defense, foreign policy and monetary issues, while the newly formed autonomous region, to be called Bangsamoro, is expected to have broad local powers.
初期的临时协议涉及权力及资源分配问题。根据这些协议，中央政府将保留在国防、外交和货币方面的权力，而新成立的名为邦萨摩洛的自治区将拥有广泛的地方权力。
The two parties also agreed that 75 percent of the tax revenue from metallic minerals mined in the region would stay in Mindanao. In addition, half of the taxes collected from fossil fuels developed in the region would remain with local authorities.
双方同意，该地区开采的金属矿物的税收收入，将有75%由地方政府保留。除此之外，当地从开采化石燃料取得的税收收入，也将有一半由地方政府保留。
Saturday’s agreement dealt with the delicate issue of disarmament. The Moro Islamic Liberation Front agreed to incorporate some of its 11,000 fighters into Philippine government forces and gradually disarm the others with the oversight of a third party yet to be named.
周六的协议涉及解除武装这一敏感话题。摩伊解同意将其1.1万名武装人员中的一些人编入菲律宾政府军，在第三方的监督下逐步解除其他人的武装，目前尚未指定第三方。
After the deal is formally signed, it must be passed by the Philippine congress and approved through plebiscite in the newly formed autonomous areas, but analysts consider passage extremely likely.
正式签署之后，协议还必须在菲律宾国会获得批准，在新成立的自治区通过公民投票，但分析人士认为该协议极有可能获得通过。
The success of the agreement may hinge in good part on the ability of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, which will now be in charge of internal security in the autonomous area, to curb the violence of other militant groups. To do so, the peace deal envisions Muslim authorities working closely with Philippine security forces.
协议能否成功，很大程度上取决于摩伊解是否有能力约束其他激进组织的暴力活动。摩伊解将负责自治区的内部安全。为此，该和平协议设想穆斯林当局会与菲律宾安全部队密切合作。
Another major group, the Moro National Liberation Front, signed the 1996 peace deal, but that agreement allowed the rebels to retain their arms and did little to end the violence. Those militants oppose the latest deal, which they say encroaches on the autonomy they were granted under their own pact. Factions of the group were involved in an incursion into the southern city of Zamboanga in September that left more than 200 people dead, most of them militants.
另一个重要组织摩洛民族解放阵线(Moro National Liberation Front)在1996年签署了和平协议，但该协议允许叛军保留武器，并且没有努力终结暴力。这批武装分子反对最新的协议，他们称该协议侵犯了他们根据自己制定的协议获得的自治权。去年9月，该组织的一些派系参与了进犯南部城市三宝颜的行动，该次行动造成逾200人死亡，其中大部分是武装分子。
Government negotiators have said that bringing greater prosperity to Mindanao and empowering the largest peaceful Muslim groups in the area will help decrease violence and lawlessness. The United States has about 500 Special Forces troops based in Mindanao to help the Philippine military fight the most violent groups.
政府谈判代表表示，促使棉兰老岛进一步发展、向该地区规模最大的温和派穆斯林组织赋予权力，将有助于减少暴力及违法活动。美国在棉兰老岛驻有大约500名特种部队(Special Forces)士兵，帮助菲律宾军方打击最暴力的组织。
One analyst expressed skepticism about the chances for a lasting peace.
一名分析人士对持久和平的可能性表示怀疑。
“The Aquino administration is in a hurry to finish this and claim credit for peace, but this isn’t peace,” said Bobit Avila, a columnist for The Philippine Star newspaper. “It will not bring peace unless all the armed groups in Mindanao will join in.”
“阿基诺政府急于结束冲突，邀功，但这不是和平，”《菲律宾星报》(The Philippine Star)专栏作家伯比特·阿维拉(Bobit Avila)说。“这不会带来和平，除非棉兰老岛上所有的武装组织都加入协议。”
“I can visit Muslim countries around the world without fear, but I can’t go to Mindanao or I will be kidnapped,” Mr. Avila said. “I don’t think this agreement will change that.”
“我可以毫无畏惧地走访世界各地的穆斯林国家，但我不能前往棉兰老岛，否则就会被绑架，”阿维拉说。“我觉得这个协议不会改变这种情况。”