MANILA, Philippines — Killings by the police and vigilantes in the Philippines’ war on drugs have soared to nearly 1,800 in the seven weeks since President Rodrigo Duterte was sworn into office, the nation’s top police official told a Senate hearing on Monday.
菲律宾马尼拉——周一，菲律宾警方最高级别的官员在参议院的一场听证会上表示，罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)总统上台七个星期以来，在毒品战争中被警察和治安员击毙的人数已上升至将近1800人。
Under Duterte, who campaigned on a pledge to rid the country of drug dealers, 712 suspects have been killed in police operations, National Police Chief Ronald dela Rosa said. Vigilante killings have totaled 1,067 during the same period, he said, although it was unclear how many were directly related to the illegal drug trade.
杜特地竞选总统时承诺过，要将这个国家的毒贩赶尽杀绝。警察总长罗纳德·德拉罗沙(Ronald dela Rosa)说，杜特地上台后，已有712人在警方的行动中被击毙。他还透露，治安员在同一时期击毙了1067人，但尚不清楚有多少死者与非法毒品交易直接相关。
The numbers represent a huge increase over those cited by the police last week, when they put the total at more than 800 since Duterte’s election on May 9. The new figures do not include killings that occurred between the election and his inauguration on June 30.
与警方上周给出的数据相比，这些数字高出了一大截。警方当时称，自从杜特地于5月9日当选总统以来，共有800多人被击毙。新数字没把从他当选总统到6月30日上任之间这段时间被杀的人数计算在内。
Duterte is said to have incited the wave of killings with his vow to eradicate crime. He has said the police should “shoot to kill” when they encounter members of organized crime or suspects who violently resist arrest.
据称，杜特地以其铲除犯罪的誓言掀起了这波杀戮狂潮。他曾经说过，警方遇到有组织犯罪的成员或者暴力拒捕的嫌疑人时，应该当场“射杀”。
Human rights advocates have been horrified by the killings, but Duterte’s popularity has soared among a large segment of Filipinos enthusiastic about his pledge to rid the country of drug dealers.
这些杀戮事件让人权倡导人士感到恐怖，但杜特地的受欢迎程度在许多菲律宾人中大幅上升，他做出的把菲律宾的毒贩清除干净的承诺，让那些人欢欣鼓舞。
The senators heard from Harra Kazuo, whose husband, Jaypee Bertes, and his father, Renato Bertes, were killed by the officers inside the Pasay City police station after they were arrested.
参议员们听取了哈拉·卡佐(Harra Kazuo)的证词。她的丈夫杰佩·伯特斯(Jaypee Bertes)及其父亲雷纳托·伯特斯(Renato Bertes)被捕后，在帕赛市的警局内被警员杀死。
She told the committee that the police had been extorting money from her husband, a small-time drug peddler.
她告诉举行听证会的委员会，她丈夫是一个微不足道的小毒贩，此前一直被警方勒索钱财。
Kazuo told the senators that the police had beaten her husband and threatened to shoot him if he did not hand over his drugs, but that he had nothing to give them. Renato Bertes arrived in the middle of the commotion, and the police beat him for insisting they show him a warrant, she said.
卡佐告诉参议员们，警方殴打过她的丈夫，并威胁说，如果他不把毒品交出来，就会被枪毙，但他没有他们要的东西。雷纳托·伯特斯在场面乱作一团之际赶到，因为坚持要他们出示逮捕令而遭到毒打。
Kazuo, who is seven months pregnant, said she had visited them at the station before their deaths and had seen that her husband was in poor condition.
怀有七个月身孕的卡佐说，丈夫和公公去世前，她去警局探望过他们，看到丈夫的状况很糟糕。
“He was leaning on the bars and had a hard time standing,” she said. “He had a difficult time speaking. That was the last time I saw them alive.”
“他靠在栏杆上，站也站不稳，”她说。“他连说话都很费劲儿。那是我最后一次见到他们活着的样子。”