President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines, overseer of a contentious and bloody crackdown on drug dealers and users, boasted on Monday about having personally killed criminal suspects when he was mayor of Davao City.
作为一场颇具争议的血腥镇压毒贩和吸毒者行动的监督者，周一，菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)夸耀自己在担任达沃市市长期间，曾亲自处决多名犯罪嫌疑人。
“In Davao, I used to do it personally — just to show to the guys that if I can do it, why can’t you?” Duterte told business leaders at a meeting in Manila, explaining how he goaded police officers to gun down suspects.
“在达沃，我以前经常自己动手——就为让手下知道我都能做，你为什么不能？”杜特地在于马尼拉举行的一个会议上，对在座的商业领袖解释自己如何激励警察枪决嫌疑犯时，这么说道。
“And I’d go around in Davao with a motorcycle, with a big bike around, and I would just patrol the streets, looking for trouble also,” he said, according to The Manila Times. “I was really looking for a confrontation, so I could kill.”
“我会骑着一辆摩托车、一辆很大的车在达沃市转，也会在街道上巡逻，看看哪里有麻烦，”据《马尼拉时报》(The Manila Times)报道，他这样讲道。“实际上我是在寻找冲突，那样我就能开枪了。”
Duterte is known both for his tough stance on crime and for controversial remarks. He has acknowledged killing before — in 2015, he said that he had killed at least three men suspected of kidnapping and rape in Davao City — but his remarks on Monday appeared to be his first such public admission since he became president.
杜特地以对犯罪立场强硬和发表有争议的言论著称。他以前也曾承认杀人——他在2015年表示自己在达沃市至少杀死了三名有绑架和强奸嫌疑的男子——但周一的言论似乎是他就任总统以来首次公开承认这样的事。
When he was mayor of Davao City, Duterte was known to carry a .38 pistol and was accused of overseeing a death squad to kill people suspected of being criminals. As president, he has led a nationwide “war on drugs” by the police and vigilante groups, which has left more than 3,000 people dead.
据悉，在担任达沃市市长期间，杜特地会随身携带一支点38口径的手枪，曾被控指示一个暗杀小组杀死有犯罪嫌疑的人。作为总统，他领导了由警方和治安队实施的全国性的“毒品战”，这场运动已经导致3000多人死亡。
Hours earlier on Monday, Duterte spoke at an awards ceremony in Manila, where he said, “I am not a killer,” and then threatened to kill police officers who disobeyed him.
周一早些时候，杜特地在马尼拉举行的一场颁奖典礼上表示，“我不是杀手”，接着却威胁会杀掉不服从他命令的警察。
“I do not relish or enjoy a Filipino sprawled there with all the blood,” he said, according to the Philippine Star. “With regard to the killing of persons on bended knees, with hands tied behind their back, that’s not ours. Will that make you a better soldier or policeman? If they do that, I’ll shoot them.”
“我并不爱看菲律宾人满身是血地瘫在地上，”据《菲律宾星报》(Philippine Star)报道，他当时讲道。“至于那些手绑在身后、跪在地上被杀死的人，那不是我们干的。那会让你成为一个更好的士兵或警察吗？如果他们那么做，我会朝他们开枪的。”
A self-described hit man told a Philippine Senate committee in September, as part of an inquiry into extrajudicial killings in Davao City, that Duterte had personally ordered the killing of citizens when he was mayor.
今年9月，一个自称为职业杀手的人告诉菲律宾参议院委员会，杜特地在担任市长期间曾亲自下令杀死多名市民。这是达沃市法外处决调查的一部分。
In October, Duterte compared himself to Hitler, saying that he would be “happy to slaughter” 3 million drug addicts.
今年10月，杜特地曾自比希特勒，称他“乐于杀掉”300万吸毒者。