TACLOBAN, the Philippines — There is still no power or running water, and food supplies and sanitation are iffy. But after Typhoon Haiyan left thousands dead here and some four million people displaced, one sign of normalcy has returned to the disaster zone: play.
菲律宾独鲁万——这里依然没有电、没有自来水，食物供应和公共卫生也成问题。但是在台风“海燕”造成这里数千人死亡，约四百万人无家可归之后，一种回归正常的迹象已在灾区出现：玩耍。
Children bounce balloons outside a school where some 20 people died in the Nov. 8 storm. At a refugee center on Samar Island they play an improvised game of dodge ball, pelting each other with sandals. And they greet the soldiers and aid workers dispatched over the storm-affected region with giggles, pokes and questions like, “What is your name?”
孩子们在一所学校外面玩着拍气球，这所学校里有约20人死于11月8日的暴风。在萨马岛的一个难民中心，小孩子们互相投着凉鞋在玩一种即兴版的躲球游戏。孩子跟那些被派到受暴风影响地区的士兵和救援人员咯咯地笑着打招呼，还用手指戳他们，问他们“你叫什么名字？”等问题。
That very normal child behavior does not mean the destructiveness of the storm will easily be forgotten.
这种很正常的儿童行为并不意味人们会很容易地忘记此次风暴的破坏性。
“The children you see, yes they are playing, yes they are laughing,” said Manneth Catina, 25, a social worker in Tacloban. “But because of the difficult situation, deep down inside they still have fear.”
25岁的曼尼斯·卡蒂纳(Manneth Catina)是独鲁万的一位社会工作者，他说，“你看到的这些孩子，他们是在玩，他们是在笑。但是因为这里的困难情况，内心深处他们仍有恐怖感。”
As the Philippines faces a multitude of questions about feeding and housing some 13 million people affected by the storm, it must also deal with the impact of the five million of those who are children.
就在菲律宾人面临着要解决给约1300万受灾者供给食物和住所等众多问题的同时，他们也必要须考虑灾难给受灾者中的500万儿童所带来的影响。
Many lost friends and family members. Some will be orphaned. Many child survivors have terrifying memories of the typhoon, of the roaring winds and driving rains and a storm surge that reached 12 feet or more in places, flooding the first floor of many homes and buildings in its path.
许多孩子失去了朋友和家人。一些人将成为孤儿。灾难给不少幸存的儿童留下可怕的记忆：台风、狂风暴雨、在有的地方高达3米多的风暴潮，风暴潮淹没了很多房子和建筑的地面一层。
Gloria Macabasag left her three children in the care of her sister-in-law at an evacuation shelter in Tacloban while she and her husband tried to protect their home during the storm. It was destroyed, but they survived by climbing to a second floor. Immediately after the waters subsided, they ran to the shelter at the Rizal Central School in downtown Tacloban.
格洛里亚·马卡巴萨格(Gloria Macabasag)把她的三个孩子留在独鲁万一个疏散避难所，交给自己的嫂子照看，她和她的丈夫试图在风暴中保护自己的家。他们的家被摧毁了，但他们得以幸存，因为他们爬上了房子的二层。洪水一退，他们马上就跑回位于独鲁万市中心的里萨尔中心小学(Rizal Central School)的避难所。
“The kids were crying and looking for us,” Ms. Macabasag said. “It looked like they were traumatized.” She pointed to a door handle to indicate the height — about one yard — that the water reached in the school.
马卡巴萨格说，“孩子们哭喊着在找我们。他们看起来被吓坏了。”她指着一个门把手来比着水灌进学校的高度，大约1米深。
The evacuees in the lower level of the school scrambled for the second floor of the building, but the wind was so strong through the open-air walkway that they had difficulty moving. Ms. Macabasag said her two youngest children, a 3-year-old girl and a 5-year-old boy, almost drowned, and were pulled from the rising water by adults.
疏散到学校一层的人们抢着要爬上二楼，但是从露天走廊吹进来的风太强了，让他们很难前行。马卡巴萨格说，她的两个小点的孩子，一个3岁的女孩和一个5岁的男孩，差点被淹死，幸亏大人们把他们从不断上涨的水中拉了出来。
Social workers have told Ms. Macabasag to encourage her children to keep playing, to write and draw to express their feelings about the storm. When she asks her 5-year-old son, Jose Luiz, about what happened, “He just cries,” she said.
社会工作者告诉马卡巴萨格要鼓励孩子们继续玩耍，鼓励他们把对风暴的感受写出来或画出来。当她问5岁的儿子何塞·路易斯(Jose Luiz)发生了什么时，她说，“他只是哭。”
Ms. Macabasag said she wanted schools to reopen, but there was no indication of that happening anytime soon. Many, like Rizal Central School, where her children survived the storm, are now being used as shelters for displaced people. The school is now home to more than 1,300 people. Ms. Macabasag’s children sleep on tables in the same classroom they fled to survive the storm.
马卡巴萨格说，她希望学校能重新开学，但没有迹象表明这会很快发生。像她的孩子得以躲避风暴的里萨尔中心小学一样，很多学校现在都被用作避难所，成为无家可归者的住处。现有1300多人住在里萨尔中心小学。马卡巴萨格的孩子睡在他们躲避风暴时所呆的教室里的桌子上。
Going back to school will help keep her children from being preoccupied with the disaster, Ms. Macabasag said.
马卡巴萨格说，重新上学能帮助她的孩子不去总想那场灾难。
“At least they can forget about what happened while they’re at school, because they’ll be distracted,” she said.
“因为上学能分散他们的精力，至少在学校时他们能忘记发生了的事情，”她说。
Reopening schools will also help avoid lasting harm to children’s education.
重新开学还能避免给孩子的教育带来长远的不良影响。
“We know the longer they don’t return to school the more likely they are to drop out,” said Lynette Lim, Asia communications manager for Save the Children. “It’s vital we get school started soon as possible.”
救助儿童会(Save the Children)亚洲交流经理利内特·利姆(Lynette Lim)说，“我们知道他们停课的时间越长，就越可能辍学。我们尽可能早地让学校复课十分重要。”
Other needs include food. While food distribution is expanding across the disaster zone, there are many who complain they have not received enough. And early distributions of aid usually does not include items specifically for children, like baby formula or diapers. Food shortage during natural disasters makes child malnutrition, which is already at high levels in the Philippines, even more of a danger, Ms. Lim said.
食物也是当务之急。虽然灾区的食物分发在不断扩大，但仍有不少人抱怨没得到足够的食物。而较早分发的救援物资中一般不包括专门针对孩子的东西，比如婴儿配方奶粉和尿片。自然灾害期间的食物短缺增加了儿童营养不良的危险，利姆说，而正常条件下，菲律宾的儿童营养不良情况已经比较严重。
Save the Children on Friday landed a plane with 100 tons of aid at Cebu, the main staging point for incoming relief supplies. But because there was only one forklift, it took 15 hours to unload the plane, said Ms. Lim.
救助儿童会的一架飞机带着100吨的救援物资周五降落在宿务，这里是送进来的救援物资的一个主要中转站。利姆说，但是由于只有一辆装卸车，从飞机上卸货花了15个小时的时间。
“It was a very long process with many delays along the way just because the infrastructure at Cebu is not strong enough,” she said.
她说，“这个过程很长，出现了很多延误，就是因为宿务的基础设施不行。”
The aid group has now begun distributing household items like kitchen sets, tarps, blankets and hygiene kits.
该救援小组现在开始分发家用物品，比如厨具、柏油帆布、毯子和卫生用品等。
With the United Nations Children’s Fund, they have set up a child-friendly area at Rizal Central School, a tent where children play with toys and do art projects. There are now three in the area and the expectation of many more.
他们和联合国儿童基金会(United Nations Children’s Fund)一起，在里萨尔中心小学设立了一个专门针对儿童的帐篷，在那里，孩子们可以玩玩具、做手工。该地区目前有三个这样的帐篷，还会有更多个。
“What we found is that children try to entertain themselves, but there’s not much to do,” Ms. Lim said. “What we want do is provide structure. We know that what helps children recover from disaster is getting back in the swing of things.”
利姆说，“我们发现，孩子们会想办法给自己解闷，但现在他们能做得不多。我们要做的是提供条件。我们知道帮助儿童从灾难中恢复的办法，是让他们回到日常的事情上去。”
On Tuesday, Ms. Macabasag said Jose Luiz had already discovered the area, though it had yet to officially open.
马卡巴萨格说，何塞·路易斯已经在周二发现了这个帐篷，虽然它还没有正式开放。
“He thinks it’s school,” she said. “They’re just playing. It’s a huge help for the kids.”
她说，“他以为那是学校。他们在那里玩得很带劲。这对孩子来说是极大的帮助。”