JARO, Philippines — Even as a major international aid effort has begun to take hold around the coastal city of Tacloban, the situation grimly differs just a few miles inland, where large numbers of injured or sick people in interior villages shattered by Typhoon Haiyan more than a week ago have received no assistance.
菲律宾贾洛——尽管在海滨城市塔克洛班，大规模的国际援助行动已经切实展开，但是向内陆行进仅仅几英里，就会看到巨大的差别，那里的局面十分恶劣。在台风“海燕”一周多前摧毁的破落村子里，有大量伤者和病患没有得到任何救助。
Well away from the coastal storm surge areas where most of the death toll occurred on the Philippines island of Leyte, the picture is still one of utter devastation — in this case from Haiyan’s record winds. Mile after mile along the inland roads, particularly in the east, practically every home looks as though its roof has been ferociously clawed off.
在菲律宾莱特岛上，风暴潮侵袭的海滨地区死伤人数最多。但在岛上远离海岸的区域，“海燕”巨大的风力也造成了满目的疮痍。在向内陆前进的路上，尤其是在东部，漫长公路沿途的几乎每一座房屋似乎都被暴虐的狂风掀翻了屋顶。
Coconut palm forests were torn apart, with vast swaths of trees snapped off about 15 feet above the ground. Falling trunks crushed or knocked holes in houses and huts alike.
椰树林被暴风撕扯得不成样子，大片大片的树木被从距地面15英尺（约合4.6米）的高度吹断。无论是房屋还是茅舍，都被断落的树干砸坏凿破。
But while international relief workers in bright blue or red vests and Philippines Department of Health workers in orange vests are now scouring neighborhoods up and down the coast, they are nowhere to be seen in the interior.
尽管穿着亮蓝色或红色马甲的国际救援人员，以及身穿橙色马甲的菲律宾卫生部工作人员，现在在沿海地区的各个社区里奔忙，但是他们在内陆地区却不见踪影。
Doctors, mayors and local council members in six inland towns and villages here on Leyte Island all said Sunday that their citizens had received no medical treatment or medical supplies and no food, water or tents from the international assistance program. They also had not received any medical assistance from the Philippines government; although town governments had received sacks of rice, village governments had not.
在莱特岛六个内陆村镇里，医生、村镇长、村委会成员都在周日表示，村民们没有得到国际救援项目提供的治疗或医疗物资，也没有得到食品、水或帐篷。他们也没有得到菲律宾政府的医疗救助，尽管镇政府收到了成袋成袋的大米，但是村政府却没有。
All of them said that with the exception of a handful of people sent to hospitals in Tacloban with clearly life-threatening injuries, most people with typhoon-related lacerations and other injuries were being sent home with little or no care. The inland areas lack doctors and have few if any antibiotics, antiseptic, gauze, or other medical supplies.
他们当中所有人都说，除了几个伤重至威胁生命的人被送到塔克洛班的医院，多数因为台风而遭外伤或其他伤害的人，则被送回家，极少甚至完全不会得到护理。内陆村镇缺少医生，几乎没有抗生素、灭菌剂、纱布或其他医疗用品。
All of them also said that they were seeing increasing rates of fever and diarrhea, which they attributed to large numbers of people drinking contaminated water and living in now-roofless homes that offer scant protection from the periodic heavy rains over the past nine days.
所有人还都表示，发热与腹泻的发病率正在增加。他们认为，原因是许多人的饮用水受到了污染，居住的房屋现在也没了屋顶。过去9天里时常突降大雨，而这样的房屋起不到多少保护作用。
Raul Artoza, a 49-year-old local council member in Macanip village, which is under the administrative authority of the town of Jaro, said that he had never seen so many children come down with fever as in the past few days.
马卡尼普村(Macanip)属于贾洛镇(Jaro)管辖。该村村委会成员，49岁的拉乌尔·阿托扎(Raul Artoza)说，他从来没见过像过去几天这么多的孩子发烧病倒。
Nobody has a thermometer in the village, nobody has taken a child to a health care worker of any sort and no aid has arrived from the Philippines government or any international group since the typhoon, he said.
他说，村里一个体温计都没有，没有人带孩子到任何医疗工作者那里问诊，风灾发生以来，无论菲律宾政府还是任何国际组织，都没有提供过任何帮助。
“We’re just putting leaves on their foreheads,” said one of his neighbors, Milagros Macanip.
他的邻居米拉格罗斯·马卡尼普(Milagros Macanip)说，“我们只是在头上盖些树叶子。”
Rosalina Doyola, a 22-year-old who completed a university degree in accounting last year, sat in a clinic in Santa Fe on Sunday morning, missing two chunks of her left calf each long and deep enough to put an index finger in lengthwise. She was hurt nine days ago by flying debris and has only received iodine solution as a topical antiseptic, plus inexpensive oral antibiotics, with no attempt at suturing her wounds.
今年22岁的罗莎丽娜·多约拉(Rosalina Doyola)去年刚刚得到了会计学大学文凭，周日早上她坐在莱特省圣塔菲的一座诊所里，左腿的小腿肚上有两条大口子，每条的长度和深度都能顺着容下一根食指。九天前，她被飞来的建筑碎块击伤，但是只得到了碘酊进行局部消毒，外加一些廉价的口服抗生素，没有得到任何缝合伤口的尝试。
“We were escaping from our house and I was hit by an iron roof; maybe it was the church’s roof,” said Miss Doyola, adding that both her brothers had been injured by stepping on nails since the typhoon, but that her two sisters were fine.
多约拉说，“我们逃离自己的房屋的时候，我被一块房顶上的铁砸中了，可能是教堂的房顶。”她还说，自己的两个兄弟都因踩到钉子受了伤，不过她的两个姐妹都还好。
Virginia Anoya Macasaet, the 51-year-old midwife who has run the clinic for many years, said that she had no formal training in wound care. She said that she had initially put gauze on Miss Doyola’s wounds nine days ago but later changed her mind.
经营这家诊所多年的是51岁的接生婆弗吉尼亚·阿诺亚·马卡赛特(Virginia Anoya Macasaet)，她说自己没有接受过伤口护理的正式培训。她讲道，她九天前一开始在多约拉的伤口上包裹了纱布，但后来又改变了想法。
“We bandaged it, but it smelled bad, so we left it open,” she said.
她说，“我们打上了绷带，可是气味很难闻，于是就把绷带解开了。”
Mrs. Macasaet and Miss Doyola both expressed surprise when told that German and Belgian medical aid groups had opened free field hospitals just three miles away in coastal Palo. An ambulance was parked in front of the Santa Fe clinic and available to take them to Palo, and gasoline has become available again in the past couple days after disappearing from sale for a week after the typhoon.
在得知德国和比利时医疗救助团体在仅仅3英里（约合5公里）外的沿海城镇帕罗(Palo)开设了免费的现场医院时，马卡赛特和多约拉都表示惊讶。一辆救护车停在圣塔菲那所诊所门前，可以带他们到帕罗去。在台风过后的一周里，汽油都无从购买，但过去一两天里，汽油供应又恢复了。
Mrs. Macasaet mentioned that flying debris during the typhoon had also gouged out the left eye of a 9-year-old boy and that he had been sent home with little care. She asked that the mayor, who was standing nearby, be told that the town’s ambulance should be used.
马卡赛特提到，台风中飞落的建筑碎片还把一名9岁男童的左眼砸了出来，他被送回家中，没有得到什么护理。她说，要让镇长明白，镇上的救护车应该用起来，当时镇长就站在不远处。
Oscar Monteza, the mayor of Santa Fe, a town of 20,000 people, said that “hundreds” of people had been injured by flying debris during the typhoon. He said that his main priority with the renewed availability of gasoline was to locate and start a generator to produce electricity, but he later agreed to authorize use of the ambulance.
圣塔菲镇的镇长奥斯卡·蒙蒂萨(Oscar Monteza)说，在这座有2万居民的镇上，“数以百计的人们”在台风中被飞落的建筑碎块砸伤。他说，又能获得汽油后，他最关注的问题是找到一台发电机，启动起来发电。不过后来他也批准了对救护车的调用。
Ricky Carandang, a presidential spokesman for the Philippines, said that aid shipments had begun to all town governments on Leyte Island, and these governments were responsible for passing on shipments to village governments. He expressed concern upon being told that village leaders in places like Macanip and Buenavista said that they had not received any relief, not even food, adding that, “We will look into these reports and take appropriate action.”
菲律宾总统发言人里奇·卡兰丹(Ricky Carandang)说，已经开始向莱特岛上所有的镇政府输送救援物资，镇政府则应负责向村政府分发救援物资。在被告知马卡尼普和布埃纳维斯塔(Buenavista)等地的村长说，他们没有得到任何救援物资，连食品都没有时，卡兰丹表达了关切，还说，“我们会关注这些报道，并采取适当的措施。”
Inland towns and villages tend to have fewer people and far fewer dead than coastal cities hit by the storm surge. Catalina Agda, the mayor of Tunga, an inland town of 7,000, said that there had been only one typhoon-related death there, caused by a falling coconut tree, and 75 confirmed injuries. Santa Fe had 10 confirmed dead and Jaro had 13, local officials said.
内陆村镇常常人口稀少，而且与遭到风暴潮侵袭的沿海城市相比，死亡人数也少很多。内陆小镇通加(Tunga)有7000名居民，镇长卡塔丽娜·阿格达(Catalina Agda)表示，那里只有一人因台风丧生，死因是被刮倒的椰子树砸到，另外还有75人确认受伤。当地官员表示，圣塔菲有10人确认死亡，贾洛有13人确认死亡。
But the extreme damage to housing, coupled with a tendency of inland residents not to go to a clinic when they are injured or sick because of an awareness of the limited medical supplies available, make it likely that injuries and sickness are more widespread in inland areas than anyone on the coast realizes, local officials said.
但是当地官员表示，由于房屋受到的极端损坏，此外内陆居民由于明白医疗用品供给有限，在受伤或患病后也不愿就诊，内陆地区受伤、患病的情况可能会比沿海地区的人们所意识到的范围更广。
After town officials in Santa Fe were told of the assistance available in nearly Palo, the ambulance was to take Miss Doyola, the 9-year-old boy and another person there for help. But their fate was still a mystery on Sunday night.
圣塔菲镇的官员得知在不远处的帕罗就能得到救助后，救护车便拉着多约拉、那名9岁的男童，以及另外一名当地人前去寻求帮助。然而到周日晚间，他们的命运仍不确定。
Thomas Laackmann, the medical team leader based in Palo for International Search and Rescue Germany, a nonprofit group based in Duisberg, said that he did not know what became of the 9-year-old boy. But he had seen Miss Doyola’s leg and been concerned that her injury was potentially life threatening. He said he had told the Santa Fe ambulance crew to take her to the Australian field hospital at the Tacloban airport.
德国国际救援队(International Search and Rescue Germany)位于帕罗的医疗队负责人托马斯·拉克曼(Thomas Laackmann)说，他不知道那名9岁的男童情况如何。德国国际救援队是一家非营利组织，总部位于杜伊斯堡。但拉克曼说，他看到了多约拉腿上的伤，担心伤口可能会威胁生命安危。他说，他已经让圣塔菲救护车上的工作人员，带她前往位于塔克洛班机场的澳大利亚现场医院。
But as night closed in, and curfew took hold in Tacloban, medical officials at the hospital said they had no record of her arrival.
但是随着夜幕降临，塔克洛班实行了宵禁，该医院的医务人员说，没有她入院的记录。