President Obama apparently canceled a meeting with President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines scheduled for Tuesday in Laos, after the Philippine president directed an expletive at Mr. Obama on Monday.
总统奥巴马取消了原定于周二在老挝与菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)举行的会晤，后者在周一直接辱骂了奥巴马。
Mr. Duterte warned Mr. Obama not to ask him about extrajudicial killings related to his crackdown on drug dealers, a campaign pledge that helped sweep him to victory in the country’s presidential election in May.
杜特地警告奥巴马不要向他问起与其毒贩镇压行动有关的法外杀人行为。那场运动帮助他在今年5月的总统大选中一举获胜。
“I am a president of a sovereign state, and we have long ceased to be a colony,” Mr. Duterte told reporters before he left his country for Laos, where he and Mr. Obama will attend the meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
“我是一个主权国家的总统，我们早就不再是殖民地，”在动身前往老挝之前，杜特地告诉记者。他和奥巴马都将参加在那里举行的东南亚国家联盟（Association of Southeast Asian Nations，简称东盟）峰会。
“I do not have any master except the Filipino people, nobody but nobody,” he said in remarks published by The Associated Press. Apparently addressing Mr. Obama, he added: “You must be respectful. Do not just throw questions.” Then, using a curse in Tagalog that can be translated as “son of a bitch,” he added, “I will swear at you in that forum.”
“除了菲律宾人民，没有人可以对我发号施令，谁也不能，”他说。美联社(The Associated Press)对这些言论进行了报道。接着，他显然是对奥巴马讲道，“你必须表示尊敬。不要只是抛出问题。”然后，他用他加禄语说了一句骂人的话，翻译过来就是，“狗娘养的”，“我会在那个论坛上冲你骂脏话的。”
Mr. Obama, who was in China for a Group of 20 meeting, departed on Monday for Laos, becoming the first American president to visit the nation. He is also scheduled to take part in the East Asia Summit and speak at a forum with young people.
正在中国参加二十国集团峰会的奥巴马在周一离开那里，前往老挝，成为到访该国的首位美国总统。他还计划参加东盟峰会，在一个为年轻人举办的论坛上讲话。
Mr. Obama had planned to meet Mr. Duterte in Laos, but Ned Price, the National Security Council spokesman, said early Tuesday that the meeting had been canceled, The Associated Press reported.
据美联社报道，奥巴马原计划在老挝与杜特地进行会晤，但美国国家安全委员会(National Security Council)发言人内德·普赖斯(Ned Price)周二早上宣布，这场会面已经被取消。
“Clearly, he’s a colorful guy,” Mr. Obama said Monday. “I always want to make sure if I’m having a meeting that it’s productive.”
“显然，他是一个很有意思的家伙，”奥巴马周一说道。“如果要会面，我总是希望能确保它会是有实效的。”
Mr. Duterte, a former mayor of Davao, was apparently referring to the numbers highlighting his campaign against drug dealers.
前达沃市市长杜特地显然是指在其打击贩毒运动中，那些引人注目的被杀人数。
Last month, the Philippines’ top police official, Chief Ronald dela Rosa, told a Senate hearing that killings by the police and vigilantes in the country’s war on drugs had soared to nearly 1,800 in the seven weeks since Mr. Duterte was sworn into office.
上个月，菲律宾警察总长罗纳德·德拉罗沙(Ronald dela Rosa)在参议院的一场听证会上表示，自杜特地就任总统以来的七周里，该国警察和治安队员在禁毒战中杀死的人数已飙升至近1800人。
Mr. Duterte’s public image has been characterized by bouts of coarse language. He has lashed out at his critics, threatening to withdraw from the United Nations after human rights experts called for a halt to the killings.
杜特地的公众形象一直以言语粗俗为特征。在人权专家呼吁停止杀戮之后，他大肆抨击批评者，并威胁退出联合国。
He joked about the rape of an Australian missionary during the presidential campaign. He cursed Pope Francis and his entourage for causing huge traffic jams in Manila during the pope’s visit to the Philippines in 2015.
在总统竞选期间，他曾拿澳大利亚传教士遭强奸的事件开玩笑。还曾因教皇方济各(Pope Francis)2015年访问菲律宾期间在马尼拉造成的严重交通堵塞而诅咒他及其随从。