MANILA — The Philippine military is fighting Islamic militants on two fronts in the country’s south, with recent battles having left dozens dead and driven more than 82,000 people from their homes, according to government officials and international organizations. An aid worker said a “growing humanitarian crisis” was underway in camps for people who had fled the violence.
马尼拉——一些政府官员和国际组织称，菲律宾军方正在该国南部的两个战场打击伊斯兰极端分子，最近的冲突已导致数十人死亡，超过8.2万人流离失所。一名援助工作者称，在躲避冲突的民众居住的营地里，正在发生一场日益加剧的“人道危机”。
The intensified fighting is taking place as lawmakers in Manila are debating a bill that would formalize the provisions of a landmark peace deal reached a year ago with the country’s largest rebel organization.
冲突加剧的同时，马尼拉的议员们正在讨论一份法案。该法案将使一份标志性和平协议的条款正式生效。这项和平协议是一年前与该国最大的叛乱组织达成的。
Last March, the rebels of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front agreed to lay down their weapons in return for the creation of a Muslim-dominated autonomous region in the southern Philippines. Under the deal, the newly established area would receive a generous portion of local tax revenue.
去年3月，摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线(Moro Islamic Liberation Front)的叛乱分子同意放下武器，条件是要在菲律宾南部建立穆斯林主导的自治区。根据该协议，新成立的地区政府将获得很大一部分地方税收。
The deal was put in jeopardy in January, when the Philippine National Police conducted a raid in the small southern town of Mamasapano to capture several internationally wanted terrorism suspects. That botched operation, which resulted in a firefight with some members of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front and left 44 police officers dead, has generated harsh public criticism of the peace agreement.
这份协议在1月份险些瓦解，当时，菲律宾国家警察(Philippine National Police)突袭了南部小镇马马萨帕诺，目的是逮捕几名受到国际通缉的恐怖主义嫌疑人。那次拙劣的行动引发了与摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线的一次交火，导致44名警察遇难，并引发了公众对这份和平协议的强烈谴责。
The Moro Islamic Liberation Front has agreed to cooperate with government officials investigating the January incident. But a smaller breakaway group called the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters, which was also involved in the firefight, has rejected the peace deal and continues to fight the military.
摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线已经同意配合政府官员调查1月份发生的事件。从摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线分离出来的摩洛伊斯兰自由斗士（The Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters，简称BIFF）也参与了交火。但规模较小的BIFF拒绝接受这份和平协议，仍然在与军方作战。
The military offensive against that splinter group has killed 73 rebels and four government soldiers in recent weeks, the military said on Monday. An estimated 82,070 people have fled their homes in Maguindanao, a province on the island of Mindanao, where the fighting is taking place, according to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
菲律宾军方周一表示，最近几周，针对BIFF的攻势已导致73名叛乱分子和四名政府士兵死亡。联合国人道主义事务协调办公室(United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs)称，约有82070人离开了位于棉兰老岛马京达瑙省的家园，因为那里正在交战。
People in evacuation centers say the military has been using artillery to flush out the rebels, who have used guerrilla tactics and attempted to blend in with the local population, according to Lyca Sarenas, a program manager in Mindanao for the charitable organization Oxfam.
慈善组织乐施会(Oxfam)在棉兰老岛的项目经理吕卡·萨利纳斯(Lyca Sarenas)说，疏散中心的人表示，军方一直在利用大炮驱赶叛乱分子，而叛乱分子则采取游击战术，试图混入当地民众中间。
“The situation in the evacuation centers is getting graver and graver by the day,” Ms. Sarenas said. “They have very little food and water and limited access to toilets, and their numbers are growing exponentially. We have a growing humanitarian crisis in Mindanao that is largely being overlooked.”
“疏散中心的情况一天比一天严峻，”萨利纳斯说。“他们的食物和水非常少，上厕所的需求也受到限制，而且人数也在急速增加。在棉兰老岛，我们面临的人道危机日益加剧，但在很大程度上这些危机却被忽视了。”
On Sulu, an island just west of Mindanao, the military has been conducting a separate offensive against the Abu Sayyaf, a small but high-profile Islamic group that has kidnapped dozens of Filipinos and foreigners in the last decade. The military reports that 63 of that group’s fighters and 10 Philippine soldiers have been killed since the offensive began in November.
在就位于棉兰老岛以西的苏禄岛上，军方一直在开展另一场攻势，目标是阿布沙耶夫(Abu Sayyaf)。过去十年里，这个规模小却很高调的伊斯兰派组织绑架了数十名菲律宾人和外国人。军方通报称，自去年11月开始进攻以来，已有63名该组织的武装分子和10名菲律宾士兵身亡。
One analyst said the offensive against the Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters was partly intended to send a message to the largest rebel organization about sticking to the peace deal. “They are sending a strong signal to the Moro Islamic Liberation Front to pursue peace and not go the way of lawlessness,” said Rommel C. Banlaoi, the executive director of the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research.
一名分析人士称，对BIFF发起的进攻，在一定程度上是为了向最大的反叛组织传递一条讯息，提醒对方要遵守和平协议。“他们是在向摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线发出一个强烈的信号，提醒该组织追求和平，不要破坏法律，”菲律宾和平、暴力与恐怖主义研究所(Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research)的执行主任罗梅尔·C·班乐义(Rommel C. Banlaoi)说。
The military estimates that the Bangsamoro group has 300 to 400 fighters, but Mr. Banlaoi’s organization puts the figure at more than 1,000, with as many as 10,000 civilian sympathizers in the area.
军方估计，摩洛伊斯兰自由斗士有300到400名武装人员，但班乐义所在的机构认为，这个数字在1000以上，并且该地区还有多达1万名同情该组织的平民。
“It is impossible to eliminate the B.I.F.F. through military means because the source of their rebellion is the political, economic and social injustices done to the communities where they operate,” Mr. Banlaoi said. “The military can neutralize some of their members, but they cannot eliminate the group.”
“不可能通过军事手段消灭BIFF，因为导致他们叛乱的根源，是其活动区域内的社群所遭受的政治、经济和社会不公，”班乐义说。“军方能够击毙一些成员，但无法完全歼灭该组织。”