Philip Seymour Hoffman, perhaps the most ambitious and widely admired American actor of his generation, who gave three-dimensional nuance to a wide range of sidekicks, villains and leading men on screen and embraced some of the theater’s most burdensome roles on Broadway, died on Sunday at an apartment in Greenwich Village he was renting as an office. He was 46.
菲利普·塞默·霍夫曼或许是同代男演员中最有雄心，也最受广泛爱戴的一位，他曾在电影中饰演了一系列配角、恶棍和主角，也曾在百老汇饰演过若干最复杂困难的角色，为这些人物赋予立体生动的演绎。本周日（2月2日，下同——译注）他于格林威治村他租下作为办公室的公寓中逝世，享年46岁。
The death, from an apparent drug overdose, was confirmed by the police. Mr. Hoffman was found in the apartment by a friend who had become concerned after being unable to reach him. Investigators found a syringe in his arm and, nearby, an envelope containing what appeared to be heroin.
警方证实了他的死因显然是毒品过量。一位朋友因无法联络到霍夫曼而感到担心，随后在公寓中发现了他的尸体。调查者在他手臂上发现了一支注射器，身边还有一只装着海洛因的信封。
Mr. Hoffman was long known to struggle with addiction. In 2006, he said in an interview with “60 Minutes” that he had given up drugs and alcohol many years earlier, when he was 22. Last year he checked into a rehabilitation program for about 10 days after a reliance on prescription pills resulted in his briefly turning again to heroin.
霍夫曼同毒瘾的搏斗由来已久。2006年，他在接受《60分钟》(60 Minutes)节目访谈时说，自己早在22岁时便已戒毒戒酒。去年他参加了一个10天的戒毒计划，此前他曾一度依赖处方药品，导致再度短暂沉迷于海洛因。
“I saw him last week, and he was clean and sober, his old self,” said David Bar Katz, a playwright, and the friend who found Mr. Hoffman and called 911. “I really thought this chapter was over.”
“上星期我还见过他，他已经戒了毒，神志清醒，恢复了老样子，”编剧大卫·巴尔·卡兹(David Bar Katz)说，他是霍夫曼的朋友，正是他发现了霍夫曼的尸体并报警，“我真的以为他人生中的这一章已经结束了。”
A stocky, often sleepy-looking man with blond, generally uncombed hair who favored the rumpled clothes more associated with an out-of-work actor than a star, Mr. Hoffman did not cut the traditional figure of a leading man, though he was more than capable of leading roles.
霍夫曼身材矮小结实，一头凌乱的金发，总是睡眼惺忪的样子，他喜欢穿着皱巴巴的衣服，看上去更像个过气的演员，而不是什么明星。他的样子并不符合传统的男主角形象，尽管他非常胜任主演这个角色。
In his final appearance on Broadway, in 2012, he put his Everyman mien to work in portraying perhaps the American theater’s most celebrated protagonist — Willy Loman, Arthur Miller’s title character in “Death of a Salesman.” At 44, he was widely seen as young for the part — the casting, by the director Mike Nichols, was meant to emphasize the flashback scenes depicting a younger, pre-disillusionment Willy — and though the production drew mixed reviews, Mr. Hoffman was nominated for a Tony Award.
2012年他最后一次在百老汇亮相时，便是采用这种“普通人”的仪态来演绎美国戏剧中最著名的主角——阿瑟·米勒(Arthur Miller)的《推销员之死》(Death of a Salesman)中的推销员威利·洛曼(Willy Loman)。人们普遍认为44岁的他饰演这个角色有些太过年轻，然而负责挑选演员的导演迈克·尼克尔斯(Mike Nichols)意图通过闪回的情景，塑造尚未经历幻灭的年轻威利形象。尽管该剧上演后毁誉参半，霍夫曼还是获得托尼奖提名。
“Mr. Hoffman does terminal uncertainty better than practically anyone,” Ben Brantley wrote in The New York Times, “and he’s terrific in showing the doubt that crumples Willy just when he’s trying to sell his own brand of all-American optimism.”
“霍夫曼比任何人都擅长表现终极的不确定感，”本·布朗特利(Ben Brantley)为《纽约时报》撰文写道，“在展现威利试图推销自己的美国式乐观主义，但终于被怀疑所摧毁时，霍夫曼的表现尤为精彩。”
In supporting roles, he was nominated three times for Academy Awards — as a priest under suspicion of sexual predation in “Doubt” (2008); as a C.I.A. agent especially eloquent in high dudgeon in “Charlie Wilson’s War” (2007); and as a charismatic cult leader in “The Master” (2012).
霍夫曼曾三次获得奥斯卡最佳男配角提名——2008年《虐童疑云》(Doubt)中被怀疑有性虐待行为的神父；2007年《查理·威尔逊的战争》(Charlie Wilson’s War)中一发怒就开始滔滔不绝的中情局探员；以及2012年《大师》(The Master)中富于个人魅力的邪教领袖。
But he won in the best actor category for “Capote” (2005). As the eccentrically sociable, brilliantly probing and unflappably gay author of “In Cold Blood,” Mr. Hoffman flawlessly affected the real-life Truman Capote’s distinctly nasal, high-pitched voice and the naturally fey drama of his presence. Writing in The Times, A. O. Scott described the film as being about a writer’s relationship with his work.
但他是因2005年的《卡波特》(Capote)而获得最佳男主角奖。霍夫曼在其中饰演杜鲁门·卡波特(Truman Capote)：《冷血》(In Cold Blood)的作者，一位古怪地爱好交际、极度热衷追根究底、性情镇静的同性恋作家。霍夫曼完美地再现了真实生活中的卡波特明显的鼻音、尖细的音调和他身上那种自然而怪异的戏剧性色彩。A·O·斯科特(A. O. Scott)在《纽约时报》上评价这部电影是关于一位作家与自己作品的关系。
“This makes for better drama than you might expect,” Mr. Scott wrote. “Capote’s human connections are, for the most part, secondary and instrumental, which makes Philip Seymour Hoffman’s performance all the more remarkable, since he must connect with the audience without piercing the membrane of his character’s narcissism.
“这比人们意料之中的更富于戏剧性，”斯科特写道。“卡波特与他人之间的关系至多只是二手的、辅助性的。因此菲利普·塞默·霍夫曼的表演就显得尤为精彩，因为他必须同观众产生联系，同时又不致于穿透卡波特那层自恋的薄膜。”
“Not only does Mr. Hoffman achieve an impressive physical and vocal transformation — mimicking Capote’s chirpy drawl and appearing to shrink to his elfin stature — but he also conveys, with clarity and subtlety, the complexities of Capote’s temperament.”
“霍夫曼模仿卡波特活泼的拖腔和蜷缩在精灵般的躯体中的姿态，在外形和声音转换方面极为成功，不仅如此，他还清晰而微妙地再现了卡波特性格气质中的复杂性。”
Mr. Hoffman appeared in more than 50 films in a career that spanned less than 25 years; in the early 1990s he had small roles in “Leap of Faith,” which starred Steve Martin as a faith healer, and “Scent of a Woman,” in which he played a prep school classmate of Chris O’Donnell, the weekend escort of a blind former military officer on a New York City jaunt, played by Al Pacino, who won an Oscar for the role.
霍夫曼不到25年的演艺生涯中，曾在50多部影片中出演角色。20世纪90年代初，他曾在一系列影片中饰演小角色，比如《天降神迹》(Leap of Faith)，主演史蒂夫·马丁(Steve Martin)在其中饰演一位精神治疗师；还有《闻香识女人》(Scent of a Woman)，片中克里斯·奥唐纳(Chris O’Donnell)在周末护送阿尔·帕西诺(Al Pacino)饰演的一位双目失明的前军官去纽约游览，帕西诺凭这个角色获得了当年的奥斯卡影帝，霍夫曼在片中饰演奥唐纳在预科学校的同学。
He appeared in big-budget Hollywood films — including “Mission: Impossible III” (2006), “Moneyball” (2011) and “The Hunger Games: Catching Fire” (2013) — and critically praised independent films, including “The Savages” (2007), in which he and Laura Linney, as his sister, struggle to care for their declining father; “Synecdoche, New York” (2008), Charlie Kaufman’s offbeat drama in which he played a moody theater director wrangling with his work and women; and “A Late Quartet,” about a violinist in the midst of dual crises, familial and musical.
后来他开始在好莱坞大制作影片中出现，包括2006年的《碟中谍3》(Mission: Impossible III)、2011年的《点球成金》(Moneyball)和2013年的《饥饿游戏2：星火燎原》(The Hunger Games: Catching Fire)；此外他还在深受评论界好评的独立影片出演角色，包括2007年的《萨维奇一家》(The Savages)，片中劳拉·林尼(Laura Linney)饰演他的妹妹，二人努力照理暮年的父亲；2008年的《纽约提喻法》(Synecdoche, New York)是查理·考夫曼(Charlie Kaufman)不落俗套的影片，霍夫曼在其中饰演一位情绪化的舞台剧导演，为工作和女人而困扰；在《晚期四重奏》(A Late Quartet)中，他饰演一位深陷家庭与音乐事业双重危机的小提琴手。
But citing the highlights of Mr. Hoffman’s prolific work life — which included directing and acting in Off Broadway shows for the Labyrinth Theater Company, a New York City troupe, which he served for a time as artistic director — undervalues his versatility and his willingness, rare in a celebrity actor, to explore the depths of not just creepy or villainous characters, but especially unattractive ones. He was a chameleon of especially vivid colors in roles that called for him to be unappealing.
霍夫曼的艺术生涯极为高产，亮点无数——他曾执导、出演“迷宫剧团公司”(Labyrinth Theater Company)的外百老汇戏剧，一度是这个纽约剧团的艺术指导。他不仅钻研那些恐怖邪恶的人物，也乐于探索平庸乏味者们的内心世界，这在名演员中是十分罕见的。他犹如变色龙一般，在那些需要显得乏味无趣的人物身上变幻出鲜明的色彩。
He played an obsequious sycophant in the Coen brothers’s cult comedy “The Big Lebowski” (1998); a former child star pathetically desperate to reclaim his celebrity in “Along Came Polly” (2004), a romantic comedy that starred Ben Stiller and Jennifer Aniston; a chronic masturbator in Todd Solondz’s portrait of suburban New Jersey, “Happiness” (1998); a snooty Princetonian in “The Talented Mr. Ripley” (1999); a weaselly tabloid reporter who gets his comeuppance (he’s glued to a wheelchair and set on fire) in “Red Dragon” (2002), an adaptation of one of Thomas Harris’s Hannibal Lecter novels; and in the role that brought him his first renown, he was Scotty J., a shy, overweight, gay boom operator on a pornographic film in “Boogie Nights” (1997).
他在科恩兄弟(Coen brothers)的邪典喜剧片《谋杀绿脚趾》(The Big Lebowski)中饰演一个卑躬屈膝的谄媚者；在2004年本·斯蒂勒(Ben Stiller)、詹妮弗·安妮斯顿(Jennifer Aniston)主演的浪漫喜剧《遇见波莉》(Along Came Polly)中饰演一个前童星，可怜巴巴地拼命试图重新赢得名气；1998年的《爱我就让我快乐》(Happiness)是托德·索伦兹(Todd Solondz)为新泽西郊区勾勒的一幅画像，他在其中饰演一个长期手淫者；他在1999年的《天才雷普利》(The Talented Mr. Ripley)中饰演一个高傲的普林斯顿学生；在2002年改编自托马斯·哈里斯(Thomas Harris)的汉尼拔·莱克托系列小说的《红龙》(Red Dragon)中饰演一个卑劣的小报记者，最后遭到报应，被粘在轮椅上烧死。1997年的《不羁夜》(Boogie Nights)令他一举成名，他在其中饰演斯科蒂·J，一个肥胖羞涩的同性恋，为色情片担任吊杆麦克风操作员。
In addition to “Death of a Salesman,” Mr. Hoffman appeared as the anguished and violent playwright, Konstantin, in Mr. Nichols’s production of “The Seagull” at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park in 2001, and on Broadway in two other long and difficult roles.
除了《推销员之死》，霍夫曼还曾在尼克尔斯执导的《海鸥》(The Seagull)中饰演痛苦而暴力的编剧康斯坦丁，该剧2001年由德拉克特剧团在中央公园上演，还在百老汇出演了两个难演的长期角色。
In 2000, he and John C. Reilly were in “True West,” Sam Shepard’s harrowing comic drama about the reunion of two estranged brothers; each of the two roles is substantial, but in this production, directed by Matthew Warchus, the actors each played them both, switching roles in different performances.
2000年，他曾与约翰·C·雷利(John C. Reilly)在山姆·谢帕德(Sam Shepard)撰写的令人悲哀的喜剧舞台剧《真实西部》(True West)中演绎了两个疏远的兄弟如何言归于好；两个角色都很丰满，在马修·沃克斯(Matthew Warchus)执导的版本中，两个演员交替扮演两兄弟，在不同的场次中互换角色。
And in 2003, he played James Tyrone, the doomed-to-alcoholism elder son of James and Mary Tyrone (Brian Dennehy and Vanessa Redgrave) in “Long Day’s Journey Into Night,” Eugene O’Neill’s portrait of an epic family demise.
2003年，他在尤金·奥尼尔(Eugene O’Neill)的史诗家族悲剧《长夜漫漫路迢迢》(Long Day’s Journey Into Night)中饰演詹姆斯·迪龙(James Tyrone)，他是詹姆斯与玛丽·迪龙（布莱恩·丹尼希[Brian Dennehy]与凡妮莎·雷德格雷夫[Vanessa Redgrave]饰）陷入酗酒噩运宿命的长子。
“The theater was very difficult for him,” Robert Falls, the director of “Long Day’s Journey,” said in an interview Sunday. “It cost him; there was an emotional cost to the work, having to do it for eight performances a week, and having to rehearse. In ‘Long Day’s Journey,’ a role about an addict who would be dead in a number of years, who was filled with self-loathing, certainly Phil had access to those emotions. But I’m not talking about a method actor. He just brought every fiber of his being to the stage. He was there — with his depth of feeling, depth of humanity — and no other actor I’ve ever worked with ever brought it like that, not at that level.”
“这部戏对他而言非常艰苦，”《长夜漫漫路迢迢》的导演罗伯特·弗斯(Robert Falls)在周日接受采访中说。“它让他付出了很多东西；一周要演八场，还要排练，他为这个角色付出了感情。在《长夜漫漫路迢迢》中，他饰演的是一个深陷酒瘾、几年内就要死掉的角色，内心充满自我厌恶，菲尔很了解这些感情。但我并不是说他是一个方法派演员。他在舞台上总是付出自己的全部，投入自己的情感深度与人性深度。在我合作过的演员中，没有人全心投入角色到这个程度。”
Mr. Hoffman was born on July 23, 1967, in Fairport, N.Y., a suburb of Rochester. His mother, the former Marilyn Loucks, is a former family court judge. His father, Gordon, worked for the Xerox Corporation. His parents, who divorced when Philip was young, survive him. In his acceptance speech at the Academy Awards in 2006, Mr. Hoffman thanked many people, but in particular his mother, now known as Marilyn O’Connor, who attended. He thanked her for raising him and his three siblings on her own and for taking him to see his first play.
霍夫曼于1963年7月23日出生于纽约州罗切斯特郊区的菲尔波特。他的母亲婚前名为玛丽琳·卢克斯(Marilyn Loucks)，曾经担任家事法院法官。父亲戈登在施乐公司工作。父母在菲利普年轻时便告离异，如今两人依然在世。2006年获得奥斯卡奖时，霍夫曼在致谢词中感谢了许多人，但特别感谢了自己的母亲，她已再婚，更名为玛丽琳·奥康纳(Marilyn O’Connor)，当天也出席现场。他感谢母亲独立抚养自己和三个兄弟姊妹成人，并感谢她带他去看生平第一场戏。
“Be proud, Mom, ‘cause I’m proud of you, and we’re here tonight, and it’s so good,” he said with a smile.
“骄傲吧，妈妈，因为我为你而骄傲，今晚我们都在这里，真是太美妙了，”他微笑着说。
Mr. Hoffman’s other survivors include a brother, Gordon, a screenwriter who wrote “Love Liza,” a 2002 film starring Mr. Hoffman as a man living through the aftermath of his wife’s suicide; and two sisters, Jill Hoffman DelVecchio and Emily Hoffman Barr; his longtime partner, Mimi O’Donnell, a costume designer who is the current artistic director of the Labyrinth Theater Company; and their three children, Cooper, Tallulah and Willa.
霍夫曼其他尚在世的亲人包括兄弟戈登，他是一位编剧，曾写过2002年的电影《我爱莉莎》(Love Liza)，霍夫曼在其中饰演一个艰难挺过妻子自杀所带来后果的男人；此外还有两个姊妹，吉尔·霍夫曼·德尔维乔(Jill Hoffman DelVecchio)和艾米莉·霍夫曼·巴尔(Emily Hoffman Barr)，以及他的长期伴侣咪咪·奥多奈尔(Mimi O’Donnell)，她是一位服装设计师，现任迷宫剧团的艺术指导；两人育有三个孩子：库珀、塔卢拉和维拉。
Mr. Hoffman became an actor in high school after a wrestling injury halted his athletic aspirations. He played Radar in a school production of “MASH,” a performance that was skilled enough that the school’s drama director decided to put on “Death of a Salesman”; in 1984, as a senior, he played Willy Loman. After graduating, he spent a summer at the Circle in the Square Theater School in Manhattan and later graduated from the New York University Tisch School of the Arts.
霍夫曼在高中时因摔跤而受伤，成为运动员的梦想就此终止，之后便成了演员。他曾在学校排演的舞台剧《MASH》中饰演拉达，这部戏十分精彩，以至于学校的戏剧导演决定继续排演《推销员之死》。1984年，作为学校的资深演员，他饰演了威利·洛曼。毕业后，他整个夏天都在曼哈顿的广场剧团学校圆形剧场(Circle in the Square Theater School)学习，后来从纽约大学蒂施艺术学院毕业。
Mr. Hoffman’s other notable film roles included one of two brothers (Ethan Hawke was the other) who contrive to rob their parents’ jewelry store, a crime that goes grotesquely wrong, in Sidney Lumet’s 2007 thriller “Before the Devil Knows You’re Dead”; the renegade rock critic Lester Bangs in Cameron Crowe’s “Almost Famous” (2000); a rogue disc jockey in “Pirate Radio” (2009); and the campaign manager of a politician in “The Ides of March” (2011).
霍夫曼其他著名电影角色还包括在2007年西德尼·吕美特(Sidney Lumet)执导的的惊悚片《在魔鬼知道你死前》(Before the Devil Knows You’re Dead)中饰演伊森·霍克(Ethan Hawke)的兄弟，兄弟俩计划抢劫父母的珠宝店，结果计划奇异地出了大错；还有2000年卡梅伦·克罗(Cameron Crowe)执导的《几近成名》(Almost Famous)中叛逆的摇滚评论家莱斯特·邦斯(Lester Bangs)；2009年《海盗电台》(Pirate Radio)中的流氓节目主持人；以及2011年《总统杀局》(The Ides of March)中政客的竞选活动管理者。
His principal works in progress were “The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1” and “The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 2,” in which he plays the head game-maker Plutarch Heavensbee. He had largely finished on the first film, but was scheduled for seven more shooting days on the second, according to a person who was briefed on the situation and spoke on condition of anonymity because of confidentiality strictures.
他未完成的主要工作包括《饥饿游戏3：嘲笑鸟（上）》(The Hunger Games: Mockingjay Part 1)和《饥饿游戏3：嘲笑鸟（下）》，他在其中饰演游戏设计者普鲁塔克·黑文斯比(Plutarch Heavensbee)。一位相关人士透露，他在上部的拍摄已经基本完成，但下部还差七个拍摄日的工作，因为受到保密条款约束，该人士要求匿名。
The films, directed by Francis Lawrence, are set for release by Lionsgate, the first on Nov. 21 of this year, the second on Nov. 20, 2015.
该片由弗朗西斯·劳伦斯(Francis Lawrence)执导，由狮门公司发行，第一部计划于今年11月21日上映，第二部将于2015年11月20日上映。
As a director, Mr. Hoffman worked with Stephen Adly Guirgis, a Labyrinth colleague, on several well-received Off Broadway plays, including “In Arabia We’d All Be Kings,” “Jesus Hopped the A Train,” “Our Lady of 121st Street” and “The Little Flower of East Orange” — all tempestuous works about urban life — and a fantasy biblical discourse, “The Last Days of Judas Iscariot.”
霍夫曼曾与迷宫剧团的同事斯蒂芬·阿德勒·奎尔吉斯(Stephen Adly Guirgis)合作担任导演，执导过几部反响颇佳的外百老汇喜剧，包括《在阿拉伯我们都能当国王》(In Arabia We’d All Be Kings)、《耶稣跳上A列车》(Jesus Hopped the A Train)、《我们的121街女士》(Our Lady of 121st Street)和《东奥兰治小花》(The Little Flower of East Orange)，它们都是激烈的城市生活喜剧。此外还有一部以圣经为题材的幻想剧《犹大最后的日子》(The Last Days of Judas Iscariot)。
Also for Labyrinth, he played the title role in Robert Glaudini’s “Jack Goes Boating,” about the tentative love life of a pot-smoking limousine driver; Mr. Hoffman reprised the role in a 2010 adaptation, a film he also directed.
在迷宫剧团，他还曾在罗伯特·格劳蒂尼(Robert Glaudini)的《杰克去划船》(Jack Goes Boating)中饰演杰克，该角色是个豪华轿车司机，爱抽烟斗，有了一段不确定的爱情故事；2010年，该片被搬上银幕，霍夫曼担任导演，并且再度在其中饰演杰克。
Labyrinth members were in a state of shock yesterday. “I had no indication at all,” the actor Felix Solis said in an interview. “He was our hero; he was our leader.”
迷宫剧团的成员们昨天都震惊不已。“我一点预感也没有，”演员菲利克斯·索利斯(Felix Solis)在接受采访时说。“他是我们的英雄，我们的领袖。”
On Sunday afternoon outside the building where Mr. Hoffman died, more than 100 people had gathered to mourn. The body was removed at about 6:40 p.m.; police officers formed a barricade to prevent people from taking pictures.
星期日下午，100余人聚集在霍夫曼逝世的那栋房子之外哀悼。尸体于下午6：40搬走；警方设立路障，阻止人们走近拍照。
“He’s a local — he’s a fixture in this neighborhood,” said Christian McCulloch, who said he lived nearby. “You see him with his kids in the coffee shops. He is so sweet. It’s desperately sad.”
“他是我们这里的人，他和邻里打成一片，”自称住在附近的克里斯蒂安·麦克卡洛克(Christian McCulloch)说，“你可以看见他带着孩子去咖啡馆。他人很好。这太让人难过了。”