TACLOBAN, the Philippines — Typhoon gridlock threatened rescue operations in the most devastated part of the Philippines on Wednesday, with aid piling up but few ways to distribute it, plentiful gasoline but no merchants willing to sell it, and an influx of emergency volunteers but no place to house them.
菲律宾塔克洛班——周三，台风所造成的交通瘫痪对菲律宾受灾最严重地区的救援工作造成了极大影响。成堆的救灾物资无法发放、大量的汽油无人愿意销售，急救志愿者涌入，但却没地方让他们落脚。
The intensifying frustrations of delivering aid five days after Typhoon Haiyan struck elicited a plea from the top United Nations relief official to the mayor of Tacloban, imploring him to persuade gas station owners to open so relief convoys could begin a large-scale expansion into the flattened port city of 220,000 and interior regions. The gas stations have fuel in their tanks, but the owners fear theft and violence if they reopen.
台风海燕过境五天后，救援工作仍然困难重重，人们的沮丧情绪日益加剧。这促使联合国(United Nations)负责救援工作的最高官员向塔克洛班市长提出请求，希望后者能说服加油站的老板开始营业，这样救援车队才能开始大规模进入这座已被夷为平地的港口城市及内陆地区。这座城市有22万人口。加油站的油罐里还有燃油，但老板却担心发生偷盗和暴力事件而不敢开门。
“We have to have fuel, so we have to have some kind of refueling center,” Valerie Amos, the under secretary general for humanitarian affairs, told the mayor, Alfred S. Romualdez, at a public meeting after she flew here for an assessment.
“我们必须得有燃料才行，所以必须得有一些燃料补给中心，”联合国负责人道主义事务的副秘书长瓦莱丽·阿莫斯(Valerie Amos)赶赴当地进行评估后，在一次公开会议上告诉市长阿尔弗雷德·S·罗穆亚尔德斯(Alfred S. Romualdez)。
Mr. Romualdez told Ms. Amos that the city could not easily cope with the influx of aid workers, as practically no vehicles were available to bring them in from the airport, while food and drinking water were running out. “I’m asking those who come here, ‘Please be self-sufficient, because there’s nothing,’ ” he said.
罗穆亚尔德斯告诉阿莫斯，塔克洛班难以应对涌入当地的救援工作者，因为确实没有交通工具可以把他们从机场送进市区，同时食物和饮水也即将用完。他说，“我得告诉来到这里的人，‘请自给自足，因为这里什么都没有。’”
The mayor’s best advice to residents was to leave and find shelter with relatives if they could, saying that the local authorities were struggling to provide food and water and faced difficulties in maintaining law and order.
市长给居民的最佳建议就是离开当地，尽量去找亲属寻求庇护，因为当地政府很难提供食物和饮水，而且在执法、维持秩序方面也面临着困难。
The paralysis was epitomized by the first attempt in Tacloban to conduct a mass burial of typhoon victims, whose corpses had been putrefying for days on the streets and under piles of debris. The attempt ended in failure as trucks carrying more than 200 corpses were forced to turn back when they faced gunfire at the city limits. The identities of the gunmen were not clear.
在塔克洛班首次尝试集体埋葬台风遇难者时，这种无力感就表现了出来。数日以来，受害者的尸体在街道上、废墟下腐烂发臭。当卡车拖着200多具尸体来到城市边缘时，有人开枪迫使他们掉头，掩埋尸体的尝试以失败告终。开枪者的身份尚不明确。
Covered with black plastic tarpaulin, the bodies were returned to a makeshift outdoor morgue at the foot of the hill topped by City Hall, where they emitted a powerful odor in the tropical heat.
盖着黑色塑料裹尸布的尸体，被送回了一个在山脚临时搭建的室外停尸所，市政府就位于这座山的山顶。在热带高温的作用下，这些尸体散发着恶臭。
Tacloban’s paralysis was acknowledged later in the day by the United States government, which is playing a major role in the emergency effort, using military cargo planes to bring in aid and to evacuate the most vulnerable residents. In a telephone briefing from Washington, a senior official assigned to the effort said that it was focused mainly on food, water, shelter and medicine, but that the provision of fuel in the city was “very much on our radar screen — that is a whole part of the logistical morass we’re working our way through.”
美国政府当天晚些时候承认，塔克洛班救援工作乏力。目前，美国政府在救援工作中扮演着主要角色，利用军用货运飞机输送救援物资，并疏散了抗灾能力最差的居民。一名负责这项工作的高级官员在华盛顿通过电话通报情况时说，救援工作将主要关注食物、水、庇护所和药物，但是这座城市的燃料供给是“我们非常关心的问题，这是我们正着手解决的一大后勤问题”。
Another senior American official in the briefing said that the number of American uniformed personnel on the ground in the Philippines, currently at about 300, would rise to 1,000 in the next few days, with most coming from a Marine base in Okinawa, Japan.
另一名高级美国官员在通报时说，目前，在菲律宾当地的美国军方人员约有300人，未来几天内将增加到1000人，其中大多数都来自日本冲绳的一座海军基地。
The officials also said a land route into Tacloban had been reopened, which would ease the bottleneck at the airport. “It was like squeezing orange juice through a straw,” one said. “Now we have more straws.”
官员们还表示，前往塔克洛班的道路已经重新开通，这将缓解机场的壅塞。“就像是在用吸管吸橙子汁，”一名官员说道。“现在，我们有了更多的吸管。”
Doctors Without Borders, the Paris-based medical agency, said its teams had traveled by car, boat, plane and helicopter to some of the outlying areas of northern Cebu Island, eastern Samar Island, Panay Island and western Leyte Province, which neither the Philippine government nor other agencies had been able to reach. The teams found desperation, the group said in a statement. The village of Guiuan in Samar was flattened and half of Roxas City on Panay was destroyed.
总部位于巴黎的医疗组织无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)表示，该机构的团队已经通过汽车、船只、飞机和直升机到达北部宿务岛、东部萨马岛和班乃岛，及西部莱特省的一些边远地区，菲律宾政府和其他机构还无法到达这些地区。该组织在一份声明中表示，其团队感到非常绝望。萨马岛的吉万镇被夷为平地，班乃岛罗哈斯市的一半城区已经损毁。
“Access is extremely difficult and is preventing people from receiving help,” said Dr. Natasha Reyes, the group’s emergency coordinator in the Philippines.
该组织在菲律宾的紧急协调员狄纯娜(Natasha Reyes)表示，“极难抵达受灾地点，人们因此无法得到救助。”
Mayor Romualdez said the city desperately needed trucks and drivers to distribute shipments of food piling up at the airport, as well as more trucks, heavy equipment and personnel to retrieve decaying corpses from the wreckage across the city.
市长罗穆亚尔德斯表示，该市急需卡车和司机，运送堆积在机场的食品，他们还需要更多的卡车、重型设备和人员，从市区的废墟中挖出腐烂的尸体。
“I have to decide at every meeting which is more important, relief goods or picking up cadavers,” he said.
他说，“每次开会的时候，我都得决定哪个更重要，运送救援物资还是处置尸体。”
With service stations closed, gasoline and diesel fuel, at any price, have almost completely disappeared, immobilizing aid vehicles and private cars alike. Scavengers have already siphoned fuel from the large numbers of vehicles crushed, overturned or abandoned.
加油站都已关闭，不论出价多高，几乎都买不到汽油和柴油，导致救援车辆及私家车都无法行驶。到处搜集弃物的人们，已经从大量压垮、翻倒或遗弃的车辆中抽走了燃油。
Typhoon Haiyan did not just destroy the electricity grid here. The storm surge, when the sea level rose by as much as 13 feet in minutes, disabled most of the city’s generators, Mr. Yaokasin said, and the lack of fuel has limited operations for the remaining units.
台风“海燕”不仅毁坏了这里的电网。副市长杰里·T·尧卡辛(Jerry T. Yaokasin)表示，风暴潮袭来时，海水几分钟内涌起了13英尺（约合4米），致使该市大部分发电机无法运转，燃料的缺乏也限制了剩余发电机的运转。
With food stripped from the shelves of many grocery stores, surviving store owners are refusing to bring in new supplies and reopen their stores, Mr. Yaokasin said.
尧卡辛表示，由于很多杂货店的货架被洗劫一空，幸存的商店老板都拒绝进货，拒绝重开店铺。
“The police visibility has to be there to the point that businesses feel the security to open their businesses,” he said.
他说，“必须要让民众看到警方在工作，使商人们感觉到安全，愿意开张营业。”
The death toll remained a mystery. The Philippine government put the official toll at 2,275 as of Wednesday. Few deaths have been confirmed in Tacloban because officials say they are counting only bodies that they have collected or formally recorded.
死亡人数仍不清楚。截至周三，菲律宾政府公布的官方死亡人数为2275人。塔克洛班确认的死亡人数很少，因为官员们称他们只计算已经找到的或正式记录的尸体数量。
But Mr. Yaokasin said the leader of a single neighborhood of 4,000 had notified him that a quarter of the residents had died.
但尧卡辛表示，一个有4000名居民的社区的负责人报告称，那里四分之一的居民已经死亡。
Jennifer Cicco, the Philippines Red Cross administrator for Leyte Island, said thousands of people were missing and were presumed to have been swept out to sea. Arié Lévy, the president of Rescuers Without Borders, a French nonprofit group, said he had visited a village a mile beyond Tacloban and estimated that he saw a thousand bodies.
菲律宾红十字会莱特岛分会主管珍妮弗·奇科(Jennifer Cicco)表示，有数千人失踪，据推测他们可能被冲到了海里。法国非营利组织无国界救援者(Rescuers Without Borders)的负责人阿里耶·莱维(Arié Lévy)表示，他去过距离塔克洛班1英里（约合1.6公里）远的一座村子，称自己看到了估计1000具尸体。