MANILA — Five days after a devastating typhoon swept through the midsection of this impoverished island nation, Filipinos are losing patience with the slow relief effort, increasingly angry with their president, Benigno S. Aquino III, a popular figure who has until now navigated multiple crises during his three years in office.
马尼拉——极具破坏性的台风袭击这个贫穷岛国中部地区5天之后，菲律宾人正在对缓慢的救援行动失去耐心，对总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)越来越多地表达出愤怒情绪，在此之前，阿基诺在其执政的三年中应对过几次危机，一直深受人们的欢迎。
The heir to a political dynasty, Mr. Aquino, 53, is facing the biggest challenge of his presidency, and even allies say he appears to have been caught off guard by the scope of the crisis. “He has to move fast, otherwise this will engulf him,” said Senator Miriam Defensor Santiago, a veteran politician.
53岁的阿基诺是一个政治王朝的继承者，他正面临着就任总统以来最大的一次挑战，就连他的盟友们都说，他似乎对这次危机的范围之广有点措手不及。老牌政治家米利亚姆·迪芬斯·圣地亚哥(Miriam Defensor Santiago)说，“他必须快速行动，否则会被危机吞噬。”
Although planes have begun arriving with badly needed supplies, much of the aid remains undistributed because of impassable roads, a dearth of working vehicles and inadequate access to fuel.
虽然运送急需物品的飞机已经开始抵达该地区，但大多数救援物资仍未分发出去，原因是道路不通、缺少能用的车辆以及无法获得汽油。
“The situation is catastrophic; it’s total chaos,” Dr. Natasha Reyes, the Philippines emergency coordinator for Doctors Without Borders, said in a statement.
无国界医生(Doctors Without Borders)在菲律宾的紧急协调员狄纯娜(Natasha Reyes)在一份声明中说，“情况很糟糕；完全混乱。”
Mr. Aquino flew to the devastated city of Tacloban on Sunday, but his public statements have struck some as insensitive. He lashed out at looters and seemed to criticize local officials for their initial failure to help the living and count the dead. Some critics say he has held fast to national pride rather than issue forceful appeals for international assistance.
阿基诺周日飞抵受灾严重的独鲁万市，但他对那里公众的讲话却让一些人感到他缺乏同情心。他猛烈抨击了抢劫者，并且似乎指责当地官员，批评他们在灾难发生不久后未能帮助幸存者、统计死亡人数。一些批评者说，总统只顾坚守国家荣誉，而不是有力地向国际社会发出救援请求。
During a meeting with officials in Tacloban, the president expressed annoyance at his top disaster management official and grew peevish when a local business owner complained of being held up at gunpoint by looters. “But you did not die, right?” Mr. Aquino snapped, according to local news media reports, shortly before presidential guards ushered the man out of the room.
在与独鲁万的官员会面时，总统对自己政府负责灾害管理的最高官员表示恼火，并在当地一名商人抱怨被抢劫者持枪拦截时，变得不耐烦。据当地新闻报道，阿基诺打断那位商人说，“但你没有死，对吧？”随后，总统的保镖将商人带出了房间。
On Tuesday, Mr. Aquino played down reports that the death toll could exceed 10,000, suggesting 2,000 might be more realistic. In an interview with CNN, he attributed the larger figure to the “emotional trauma” experienced by those providing the estimates.
周二，阿基诺把媒体有关死亡人数可能超过1万的报道不当回事，提出2000人可能更现实。在接受CNN采访时，他把那个更大的数字归因于那些做出死亡人数估计的人所经历的“精神创伤”。
Ramon C. Casiple, executive director of the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in Manila, said the debate over casualty figures was becoming an unnecessary distraction. “I don’t believe the lower figures put out by officials, but if the number turns out to be greater, you’re going to have a political backlash,” he said.
位于马尼拉的政治与选举改革研究所(Institute for Political and Electoral Reform)总干事拉蒙·C·卡西普雷(Ramon C. Casiple)说，有关死亡人数的争论正在变为不必要的干扰。他说，“我不相信官员给出的那个更低的数字，但如果数字最终真是很大的话，会引发政治反弹。”
A columnist for The Manila Times, Ben D. Kritz, ridiculed top officials, among them the nation’s defense secretary, for flying to the disaster zone without working phones. He noted that one of the first military planes to land was carrying a van — which could not be used on Leyte Island’s debris-clogged roads. “In the aftermath of the typhoon, the response of the Aquino administration, as usual, has been an uncoordinated, fumbling embarrassment,” he wrote.
《马尼拉时报》(The Manila Times)专栏作家本·D·克里茨(Ben D. Kritz)讽刺包括国防部长在内的高级官员，说他们没带着能工作的电话就飞到灾区去了。他指出，最早抵达的一架军用飞机上载着一辆货车，在莱特岛被废墟堵塞的道路上根本无法用。他写道，“台风过后，阿基诺政府一如既往，对灾难的反应是一种缺乏协调、乱糟糟的尴尬状态。”
The president’s office did not respond to requests for comment.
总统办公室没有对要求发表评论的请求作出回应。
Until now Mr. Aquino, popularly referred to as Noynoy, had a remarkably smooth tenure as the leader of nation long derided as “the sick man of Asia.” The son of former president Corazon C. Aquino and Benigno S. Aquino Jr., a beloved political figure who was assassinated in 1983, Mr. Aquino has earned high marks by taking on the endemic corruption that has long bedeviled the Philippines. Among his most notable achievements was a landmark peace accord with the nation’s largest group of Muslim separatists that had evaded his predecessors.
在此之前，被人们称为“诺诺”(Noynoy)的阿基诺，在这个长期以来被戏称作“亚洲病夫”的国家中，其总统任期还算风平浪静。阿基诺是前总统科拉松 ·C·阿基诺(Corazon C. Aquino)和贝尼尼奥·S·小阿基诺(Benigno S. Aquino Jr.)的儿子，小阿基诺曾是位受人爱戴的政治人物，在1983年被暗杀。阿基诺因为打击长期困扰菲律宾的腐败而受到好评。他最著名的成就之一，是与该国最大的穆斯林分裂主义者签订了一项标志性的和平条约，而阿基诺的前任们一直未能做成这件事。
Since his election in 2010, the economy has been expanding at a heady pace, with 7.6 percent growth during the first half of the year. His administration has bolstered tax collection and has helped fuel increased spending on infrastructure, social welfare and disaster preparation.
自从他在2010年当选以来，菲律宾的经济一直在快速增长，今年上半年的增长率为7.6%。他的政府加强了税务征缴，从而帮助提高了用于公共事业的开支，包括基础设施、社会福利，以及防灾救灾准备工作。
But few would deny that Mr. Aquino has been dealt a difficult hand in recent months. In September, the government was caught off guard after a splinter group of Muslim insurgents seized a city in the south, prompting a battle with the army that left more than 200 people dead and destroyed 10,000 homes. There have also been back-to-back natural disasters, including an earthquake last month that killed more than 200 people on Bohol, an island that was battered again last week by Typhoon Haiyan. Last year, Typhoon Bopha killed more than 1,100 people in the southern island of Mindanao, causing $900 million in damage.
但是几乎无人会否定阿基诺在最近几个月中多次面临困难的挑战。9月份，完全出乎政府的预料，一群穆斯林分裂主义武装分子占领了南方的一座城市，迫使军队与其开战，造成200多人死亡，1万个房屋被毁。菲律宾还连续发生了好几起灾难，包括上月在薄荷岛上发生的地震，导致200多人死亡，而上周台风“海燕”又袭击了该岛。去年，台风“宝霞”导致了南部棉兰老岛上的1100多人死亡，造成了高达9亿美元（约合55亿元人民币）的损失。
Then there is an unfolding corruption scandal involving more than $200 million in public money that ended up in the pockets of elected officials, and a businesswoman accused of setting up fake nongovernmental organizations. Investigators said some of those funds had been earmarked for flood prevention and projects that would have rehoused vulnerable residents living in storm-prone coastal areas.
还有就是那起正在上演的腐败丑闻，丑闻涉及到2亿多美元的公共资金流进当举官员的腰包，以及一名女商人被指控成立虚假的非政府组织。调查者说，其中一部分资金是防洪项目专款，本来是用来建造房屋，重新安置住在易遭受风暴袭击地区的居民的。
“We’re already a country under siege by nature, and we have no money to spend on disaster preparation because all our high officials are stealing from us,” said Senator Santiago, who conducted televised hearings on the scandal last week that transfixed the nation just as the storm was approaching.
“我国已经是一个饱受自然灾害的国家，但我们没钱为防灾救灾做准备，因为我国的高官们一直在偷人民的钱。”圣地亚哥参议员在上周的一次全国转播的听证会上这样说，那场针对丑闻的听证会吸引了全国观众的注意力，而当时台风也正在逼近。