TACLOBAN, the Philippines — Pausing occasionally to dodge driving rain by hiding under loose scraps of plywood, a group of firefighters lowered unidentified bodies into a mass grave here Thursday, six days after the city was heavily damaged by Typhoon Haiyan.
菲律宾塔克洛班——周四，在台风“海燕”侵袭这座城市的6天之后，一群消防员冒着大雨把无名尸体放进一个集体坟墓。他们偶尔会停下来，躲在松散的废胶合板下面避一会雨。
For days, the bodies had sat in public. First they lay uncovered on roadsides; then they were placed in body bags. After that, they were collected, and nearly 200 were stored at the biggest site, a government office. In nearby City Hall, the center of local government relief efforts, the stench from the bodies could be powerful when the wind blew off the harbor.
几天来，这些尸体一直堆放在公共场所。它们一开始毫无遮盖地横在路边；后来被放进了藏尸袋里。之后，尸体被收集起来，接近200具尸体被放到了一处政府的办公场所，这里成了这次灾难中最大的停尸地。在不远处的市政厅，即当地政府救援行动的中心，当有风从港口吹来时，能闻到非常刺鼻的尸臭。
“What we are doing is a little bit late,” said Alfred S. Romualdez, the mayor of Tacloban. He blamed the national government for widespread delays in burials and in the distribution of food, water and basic relief supplies.
塔克洛班市长阿尔弗雷德·S·罗穆亚尔德斯(Alfred S. Romualdez)说，“我们现在做这些事有点晚了。”他认为中央政府应该为大量尸体没有及时掩埋，以及食品、水等基本救援物资普遍没有及时发放负责。
“I appreciate the boats coming in, the planes coming in,” he said. “But what we need are foot soldiers, times 10 of what you see now.”
他说，“我感谢前来救灾的船只和飞机，但我们需要的是步兵，而且数量应该是现在的10倍。”
Questions over the total death toll from the disaster appeared to grow more confused on Thursday. The government’s Official Gazette Web site reported 2,357 casualties as of Thursday evening Manila time. The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the main international conduit for funneling emergency relief to the stricken areas, reported 4,460 deaths on its Web site update of the crisis.
有关遇难者总数的问题周四似乎更加扑朔迷离。政府的官方公告网站上公布的数据显示，截至马尼拉时间周四晚间，死亡人数是2357人。联合国人道主义事务协调办公室(United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs)是向受灾地区输送紧急救灾物资的主要国际渠道，其网站上公布的有关这次危机的最新数据显示，死亡人数为4460人。
President Benigno S. Aquino III has said he believes the initial estimate that 10,000 people may have been killed was exaggerated and that the fatalities might be more in the 2,500 range. On Thursday the police official considered responsible for 10,000 estimate, Chief Supt. Elmer Soria, was “relieved from his post,” the official Philippines News Agency reported.
菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)说，他认为最初估计的1万人的死亡数字言过其实，实际死亡人数可能为2500人左右。官方的菲律宾新闻社(Philippines News Agency)报道，周四，被认为应当为1万人遇难的估计数字负责的官员，总警司埃尔默·索里亚(Elmer Soria)已经“被解除职务”。
The official death toll for the city of Tacloban rose to 2,000 on Thursday, but that covers only bodies that have been collected or confirmed by authorized officials. The confirmed bodies are those that are readily visible from roadsides, as relief crews have yet to start digging through towering piles of debris, much of it studded with nails. There are also 3,000 people injured, in the official tally, and 194 officially declared missing.
官方公布的塔克洛班死亡人数周四上升至2000人，但是这只体现了被获得授权的官员收集或确认的尸体数量。这些得到确认的死者，尸体就抛在路边，很容易被人看到，救援人员还没有开始挖掘高高的瓦砾堆，很多瓦砾里都有钉子。在官方的统计中，还有3000人受伤，官方还宣布有194人失踪。
Mr. Romualdez said the backhoe digging the mass grave had broken down before the hole was big enough for the initial batch of 244 bodies, a symbol of a relief effort dogged by glitches.
罗穆亚尔德斯说，挖掘集体坟墓的反铲挖掘机坏了，还没有挖成足够容纳第一批244具尸体的墓穴，这意味着技术故障已经拖累了救援行动。
“Tomorrow morning, it’s going to get going,” he said.
他说，“明天早上，挖掘机就能用了。”
Food distribution has improved, Mr. Romualdez said. Relief workers have now distributed packages of rations in 101 of the city’s 138 neighborhoods, he said, and will reach the rest on Friday, he said. Each family is supposed to receive six and a half pounds of rice and some canned goods.
罗穆亚尔德斯说，食品发放已经改善。救援人员现在已经在这个城市的138个社区中的101个社区分发了包装好的配给食品，并将于周五送往其余社区。每家可以领到6.5磅（约合2.9公斤）大米和一些罐头。
But people are still pleading for food, like members of the family near Santo Niño Church, packed into a pickup truck for shelter. “We need food,” they cried to passers-by.
但是人们仍在乞求食物，比如圣婴教堂(Santo Niño Church)附近的一家人，他们躲在一个小卡车里，向路人哀求，“我们需要食物。”
Mr. Romualdez acknowledged that food distribution had been a problem. Large numbers of people have been wandering across the city seeking food or missing family members. Those who are not at home when a relief truck arrives in their neighborhood are unlikely to get food, the mayor said.
罗穆亚尔德斯承认，食品发放一直是一个问题。大批人在街上游荡，寻找食物和失踪的亲人。当卡车抵达社区时，那些不在家的人就可能领不到食物。
A Philippine Red Cross convoy of two ambulances, two water tanker trucks, a busload of police officers and six large trucks carrying medical supplies drove into Tacloban on Thursday morning, having driven from Manila, a 22-hour trip. Jennifer Cicco, the Leyte Island administrator for the Philippine Red Cross, said the convoy had left a needed fuel tanker along the way, at least partly because of worries about the security of bringing such high-value cargo into a still-turbulent area. A Red Cross road-clearing equipment convoy also reached Tacloban on Thursday.
菲律宾红十字会派出了一个车队，包括两辆救护车、两辆水罐车，一辆巴士，里面全部是警察，以及6辆装有医疗物资的大卡车。车队是从马尼拉开过来的，周四早上进入了塔克洛班，路上用了22个小时。菲律宾红十字会在莱特岛的管理人员珍妮弗·奇科(Jennifer Cicco)说，车队把一个急需的燃油罐留在了路上，至少部分原因是担心，把这样价值不菲的物品带到一个仍然动荡地区并不安全。红十字会一个运送道路清理设备的车队也于周四抵达了塔克洛班。
In a sign of the continuing fuel shortages, dozens of people waited hours to receive gasoline that was being retrieved from a gas station’s tanks by people using buckets attached to poles. “It’s free,” said Michael Patan-Ao, who had waited eight hours for fuel for his motorcycle. “You just have to get up early.” Two police officers watched over the scene.
人们用杆子挑着桶，从加油站的油罐里领汽油，数十个人为了领到汽油等了好几个小时，这显示出灾区仍缺少燃油。“免费的，但是得起早点，”迈克尔·帕坦奥(Michael Patan-Ao)说。他为了给摩托车加油等了8个小时。有两个警察在加油现场维持着秩序。
Flash thunderstorms were the biggest obstacle to the burial of corpses on Thursday. Rain soaked the eight firefighters who carried the bodies out of trucks and handed them to graveyard workers, most of them teenagers, who carried the bodies down into a freshly dug pit.
突如其来的雷雨是周四埋葬尸体的最大障碍。8名消防员都被雨浸透，他们负责把尸体从卡车抬出来，交给墓地的工作人员。这些工作人员大多有十多岁，他们把尸体放在刚挖好的坑里。
“It’s very, very difficult,” said Arnulfo Homeres, a firefighter who was helping carry the bodies. “But this is our profession, so we have to do it.” He wore two layers of masks that he occasionally daubed with perfume.
帮着抬尸体的一名消防员阿努尔福·霍梅尔斯(Arnulfo Homeres)说，“非常非常艰难。但这是我们的工作，我们必须得做。”他带着两层口罩，不时地往上面洒香水。
At one end, a backhoe worked to expand the pit, which was about six and a half feet deep, 10 feet wide and 200 feet long.
在墓坑的一端，一台挖掘机仍在挖掘，这个坑目前大约有2米深，3米宽，60米长。
Mr. Romualdez said that he expected the pit to contain 400 bodies by Friday and that it could eventually hold 1,000. A separate mass grave will be dug at the site for the bodies of victims who have been identified.
罗穆亚尔德斯说，他预计到周五这个大坑将能容纳400具尸体，最终能埋下1000人。这里还会再挖一个集体坟墓，用来埋葬已经确认身份的遇难者遗体。
At the foot of the pit and on the road beside the graveyard were more than a dozen bodies that been had brought by local residents. Most were wrapped in corrugated metal and cloth.
在坑里的一端以及墓地旁边的路上，摆着十来具尸体，这些都是被当地居民送过来的。大多数尸体都用金属瓦楞板和布包裹着。
In a few months, the unidentified bodies will be exhumed and investigators will try to identify them using data like dental records, though many such records may have been destroyed in the storm. Mr. Romualdez said perhaps only 20 percent of the unknown dead would ever be identified.
再过几个月，这些无名尸会被挖掘出来，调查人员将试图通过牙齿记录等数据辨认他们的身份，不过这些记录很多已经在风暴中被毁。罗穆亚尔德斯说，也许只有20%的无名尸能够确认身份。