MANILA, Philippines — In August 2011, President Benigno S. Aquino III flew secretly to Tokyo to meet with the leader of the Philippines’ largest Muslim separatist group. The meeting, with the chairman of the Moro Islamic Liberation Front, Al Haj Murad Ebrahim, led to a landmark October 2012 framework agreement for peace.
菲律宾马尼拉——2011年8月，菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)秘密飞往东京，与菲律宾最大的穆斯林分离主义团体的领导人会晤。此次与摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线(Moro Islamic Liberation Front)主席哈吉·穆拉德·易卜拉欣(Al Haj Murad Ebrahim)的会谈，最终促成了2012年10月里程碑式的和平框架协议的达成。
But in the year since, Mr. Aquino has received a rough reminder that the quest for peace in the southern Philippine island of Mindanao, one that goes back more than a century, remains as difficult as ever.
不过在接下来的一年时间里，阿基诺得到了一次惨痛的提醒，在菲律宾南部的棉兰老岛寻求和平的道路仍不平坦，而这种追寻已然延续了一个多世纪。
The most recent fighting, in Zamboanga, began last Monday when several hundred armed members of the Moro National Liberation Front, a rebel group that was not included in the 2012 peace deal, entered the port city by sea and, the police said, declared an independent Islamic state.
最近一次的武装冲突发生在三宝颜，始于上周一。警方称，摩洛民族解放阵线(Moro National Liberation Front)的数百名武装分子冲入了这座港口城市，宣布成立一个独立的伊斯兰国家。该反叛组织并未参与2012年的和平协议。
Under attack by police and the army, the rebels took hostages and retreated to the poor Muslim areas outside the city, where on Sunday they were fighting house to house with the security forces. Officials said that nearly 100 rebels had been killed or captured, and that many had cast off their military fatigues in an effort to blend into the civilian population.
在警察与军队的反攻下，反叛武装挟持人质撤退到城外的穆斯林贫民区。周日，他们与安全部队展开了巷战。官方宣称，近100名反叛人员被打死或俘虏，还有同样多的反叛人员脱下了作战服，企图乔装成平民。
Over all, more than 50 people have been killed, and nearly 70,000 displaced, in the battles during the past week between the military and the rebels, officials said.
官方还称，在军方与反叛武装上周进行的战斗中，共有逾50人身亡，近7万人流离失所。
The latest fighting is not the first major challenge to the 2012 peace deal. In February, more than 100 armed men traveled by boat from the southern Philippines to the nearby Malaysian state of Sabah, on the island of Borneo, and claimed the area for descendants of the Sultanate of Sulu, which controlled the area in the 1800s. The incursion killed more than 60 people, escalated into the most serious security threat in Malaysia in more than a decade and strained relations with the Philippines.
这次最新的冲突并非2012年和平协议第一次面临大的挑战。今年2月，100多名武装人员从菲律宾南部乘船抵达马来西亚加里曼丹岛的沙巴州，宣布该地区为苏禄苏丹国(Sultanate of Sulu)的后人所有。19世纪的时候，苏禄苏丹国曾控制该地区。入侵行动导致逾60人身亡，升级为马来西亚十多年来最严重的安全威胁，并导致两国关系紧张。
In addition to these high-profile episodes, Mindanao faces grinding, almost daily violence, including kidnappings, banditry, summary executions and roadside bombs.
除了这些关注度较高的事件，棉兰老还遭受着几乎每天都会发生的暴力事件的折磨，比如绑架、盗匪行为、就地处决及路边炸弹。
Between June 1 and Aug. 15, there were 61 incidents in Mindanao related to Muslim insurgency groups, according to a report by Pacific Strategies and Assessments, a risk-mitigation firm in Manila. That was double the average since August 2009, the report said.
根据马尼拉的风险控制企业太平洋战略与评估公司(Pacific Strategies and Assessments)所做的报告，今年6月1日到8月15日，棉兰老发生了61起与穆斯林叛乱组织有关的事件。文中还称，这一数字两倍于2009年8月以来的均值。
At the root of the problem is a belief by many Muslims in the southern part of the country that Christians in the north have oppressed them and exploited their resources. Well-armed Muslim clans have fought government forces since the American military quelled the Moro insurrectionists in 1899, when the Philippines was under colonial rule by the United States. Every government in Manila since independence in 1946 has struggled to bring peace to Mindanao.
问题的根源是，菲律宾南部的许多穆斯林认为，北部的基督徒对他们进行了压迫并开采了他们的资源。菲律宾曾遭美国的殖民统治，1899年，美军平息了摩洛的武装暴动。自那以后，装备精良的穆斯林群体一直在反抗政府部队。1946年菲律宾独立后，马尼拉的每届政府都在棉兰老的和平问题上苦苦挣扎。
Any peace deal is complicated by factionalism, with ancient roots, among the political and rebel organizations involved, said Ramon C. Casiple, executive director of the Institute for Political and Electoral Reform in Manila.
位于马尼拉的政治与选举改革研究所(Institute for Political and Electoral Reform)的总干事拉蒙·C·卡西普雷(Ramon C. Casiple)称，政治与反叛团体中间存在根深蒂固的派系分化问题，任何和平协议都会因此而变得更加复杂。
“The power structure of the clans and tribes transcends the power of the political groups,” Mr. Casiple said. “Whatever group they are aligned with, their allegiance is to their clan.”
“宗派与部族的权力架构超越了政治团体的权力，”卡西普雷说，“无论他们与哪个团体结盟，效忠的都是自己所在的宗派。”
The government sought to bring other groups into the talks that led to the peace deal with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. The goal, peace negotiators said, was to forge an umbrella agreement that would create a lasting peace.
政府曾寻求将其他一些团体也囊括到最终与摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线达成的和平协议中。参与和谈的人士称，当时的目标是形成一个能保障持久和平的一揽子协议。
That clearly has not happened. The group fighting in Zamboanga has said part of its motivation was opposition to the 2012 deal, which its leaders feel undercut a previous agreement with the government.
显然，这并没有成功。发起三宝颜冲突的组织表示，他们的动机之一是反对2012年的协议。组织领导人认为，这个协议破坏了之前与政府达成的另一项协议。
The current fighting is not likely to derail the peace deal, said Richard C. Jacobson, the Philippines country director for Pacific Strategies and Assessments, but it will make it harder to put the power-sharing part of the agreement into effect.
太平洋战略与评估公司的菲律宾地区主管理查德·C·雅各布森(Richard C. Jacobson)认为，目前的武装冲突不太可能让和平协议失败，但会让协议的权力共享部分更难以生效。
As part of that deal, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front is to have greater autonomy to handle security in the areas where it operates. This will include dealing with rival groups and with organizations committed to armed struggle for an independent Islamic state in Mindanao.
作为协议的一个交换条件，摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线在活动区域内的安全问题上将拥有更多自治权，其中包括与敌对团体及致力于在棉兰老武装建立独立伊斯兰国家的组织打交道。
“When they are in power, how will the Moro Islamic Liberation Front handle a situation like we are seeing now in Zamboanga City?” Mr. Jacobson asked.
“等他们掌权的时候，摩洛伊斯兰解放阵线会如何应对类似三宝颜目前的这种局势呢？”雅各布森问道。
The peace deal also includes a wealth-sharing agreement stipulating that 75 percent of the tax revenue from metallic minerals mined in the region will stay in Mindanao. In addition, 50 percent of the taxes collected from fossil fuels developed in the region will remain.
和平协议中还包括一个财富共享协议，其中规定，棉兰老金属矿税收的75%将留存在当地。此外，该地区开采化石燃料税收的一半也将留存。
How this influx of revenue is managed is a key consideration for peace in the region, Mr. Jacobson said. He said that the region had weak government institutions in areas like law enforcement, education and health care, and that corruption was a profound problem.
雅各布森称，如何管理这一大笔收入将成为该地区和平的关键因素。他还表示，当地在执法、教育和医疗等领域的政府机构十分薄弱，腐败也是个大问题。
“If people in these areas don’t see improvements, if they don’t see results, it gives the armed groups the motivation and opportunity to fill that gap,” Mr. Jacobson said.
“如果这些地区的民众没有看到改进，没有看到成果，就会给武装团体提供填补空白的动力和契机，”雅各布森说。
Mr. Casiple said that even if the peace agreement was successfully put into practice, security would continue to be challenged by the thousands of unregistered weapons that were acquired in decades of insurgency in the region.
卡西普雷认为，就算和平协议成功付诸实施，地区安全也会持续受到威胁，因为当地在数十年的反叛活动中持有数以千计的未登记武器。