TACLOBAN, Philippines — Jomar Pascual stirred a steel pot full of instant noodles carefully in a typhoon-damaged former kindergarten building. He had already cooked rice. His three younger brothers and a younger sister, suddenly orphans like him, were hungry, and he began to feed them, spooning the pallid meal onto their green plastic plates.
菲律宾塔克洛班——在一幢被台风损毁的幼儿园的楼房里，乔玛·帕斯夸尔(Jomar Pascual)正小心地搅拌着一口装满方便面的钢锅。他已经煮好了米饭。他有三个弟弟和一个妹妹，他们忽然之间都变成了孤儿。面对饥肠辘辘的弟妹们，他开始盛饭，把这些可怜的食物一勺勺地放进他们的绿色塑料餐盘里。
The five siblings, the youngest just 8, sleep at night on a bathroom door in the cramped room, which they share with two other families. They seldom talk about the night their mother and father, two sisters and a brother died, when the winds of Typhoon Haiyan shrieked deafeningly and waves taller than nearby coconut palms swept over their home, obliterating everything except a toilet bowl attached to a small square of concrete foundation.
这五兄妹中，最小的只有8岁，他们晚上只能睡在一间狭小房间里的一张厕所门板上，而且还要跟其他两个家庭共用房间。他们很少谈起父母及两个姐姐、一个哥哥死于非命的那个夜晚。当时台风海燕发出震耳欲聋的咆哮，比周围椰子树还要高的海浪冲毁了他们的家园，一切都被摧毁了，只剩下一只马桶，固定在一小块儿水泥底座上。
Three weeks after the storm killed thousands with its tsunami-like storm surge and shredded homes with some of the most powerful typhoon winds ever recorded, this town and many like it across Leyte Island in the east-central Philippines are scenes of grieving. Yet acts of heroism abound, and have been intermingled with only a few acts of malice and madness, as when a 12-year-old boy’s throat was slit when he showed up at one of the orgies of looting here, or when a man was chased out of his home by an escaped convict with a gun.
台风海燕掀起的巨浪仿佛海啸一般，夺去了数千条生命，威力巨大的台风则毁坏了大量民宅。三周之后，在这座小镇，以及菲律宾中东部莱特岛上许多类似的城镇，都是一片惨淡景色。虽然有着许多英勇行为，但是也偶尔出现了一些疯狂与恶意的举动，比如一个12岁的小男孩因为出现在打砸抢现场，结果喉管被割开，亦或者一个男人被一个持枪逃犯赶出了自己的家。
The episodes of heroism reflect a remarkable will to endure among people of all ages here, often with a special emphasis on making sure that the children not only will survive and rebuild the devastated island.
当地人的英勇之处表现在，这里的人们，不分老小，都展示出了忍受艰辛的强烈意愿，其重点在于，确保孩子们不仅能够生存下去，还要重建这个被摧毁的岛屿。
As people like Mrs. Kaaya seek to look after loved ones, contrasting scenes of ugliness are rare here, although not unheard of. Many seem to involve the roughly 1,100 convicts, including murderers, who escaped from three prisons — all near Tacloban’s airport — that were destroyed by the typhoon.
很多人像卡雅(Kaaya)一样，想办法照顾自己心爱的人，那些截然相反的丑恶现象非常少，却也并非闻所未闻。包括杀人犯在内，1100名已被定罪的囚犯从三所监狱中逃了出来，很多丑行都与这些人有关。这三所被台风损毁的监狱都位于塔克洛班市机场附近。
Jenny Malaki, a resident of one of the many cramped alleys here in Tacloban, said that her cousin by marriage had fled to the other end of the island after being chased out of his home by an escaped convict who had obtained a gun and had a grudge against him. “The man almost shot him,” she said.
珍妮·马拉奇(Jenny Malaki)居住在一条逼仄的小巷上，这样的小巷在塔克洛班还有很多。她说，她的一个亲戚被一个之前有仇的逃犯赶出了自己家，之后，他只好逃到岛的另一边。这个逃犯搞到了一支枪，珍妮说，“逃犯差点儿开枪打他。”
In a separate episode, a 12-year-old boy was stabbed in the chest and his throat was slit when he showed up soon after the typhoon at the looting of the Robinson’s shopping mall near the airport, according to the Philippine Red Cross. Members of the crowd rushed the boy to an orphanage where the staff had medical training, and his life was saved.
在另一起事件中，根据菲律宾红十字会的说法，台风之后不久，一个12岁的小男孩出现机场附近的鲁滨逊购物中心的抢夺现场，他胸口中刀，喉管被割开。旁边有人紧急将他送到一所孤儿院，那里的员工受到过医疗训练，这个小男孩儿的性命最终被救了回来。
Mr. Pascual, who is 18, said that he had participated in the looting of a warehouse two days after the typhoon to obtain food for his younger brothers and sister, but had been careful. He chose the least popular canned food and did not participate in the melee for more popular items, he said, partly because he could not afford to be injured.
帕斯夸尔今年18岁，他说，台风之后两天，他参与抢掠了一处库房，为自己的弟弟妹妹找吃的，但是他非常小心。他选的是最不受欢迎的罐头食品，并没有为那些更受欢迎的东西参与打斗，他说，部分原因是他现在可不能受伤。
“I just got some sardines, I didn’t fight for the other canned goods,” he said.
他说，“我只拿到一些沙丁鱼，我没有为其他罐头食品而打斗。”
Mr. Pascual volunteered to show the way from the kindergarten to his family’s former home. The site was covered with mud except for the square of concrete under the toilet, and strewn with shreds of clothing, the twisted remains of a child’s bicycle frame and battered auto parts. Still tied to a fallen tree trunk were the remains of the pedicab in which the family’s late father used to pedal tourists around town.
帕斯夸尔自告奋勇，愿意从幼儿园带我们去看他从前的家。在那里，房屋原先的地方都被泥土覆盖，只剩下马桶下面的那块水泥底座。周围都是碎布条，一辆儿童自行车已经变形，还有被毁坏的汽车零件。一架摩托三轮车的框架绑在一棵倒掉的树干上，他的父亲遇难之前，会踩着这辆三轮车搭载游客在小镇上观光。
The bodies of their father and 11-year-old sister have been found, but the bodies of their mother, 5-year-old sister and 3-year-old brother are missing. Mr. Pascual said only that the survivors knew from what they saw on the night of the storm that all three of the missing had perished.
他们的父亲和11岁的妹妹的遗体已经找到了，但是他们的妈妈，5岁的妹妹和3岁的弟弟还下落不明。帕斯夸尔说，幸存者目睹了台风那天夜里的可怕景象，就知道失踪的三个人肯定都遇难了。
Mr. Pascual said that they had not bothered to go through the procedures for adding the mother, sister and brother to the official list of the missing, but had only mentioned in passing to a neighborhood official that they were gone.
帕斯夸尔说，他们没有去走程序，将妈妈，妹妹和弟弟上报入官方的失踪人口名单，只是在见到社区官员的时候顺便说了声他们不见了。
Many local residents make similar comments, making it hard to gauge the accuracy of government statistics that showed 5,500 people dead, 26,136 injured and 1,757 missing as of Wednesday evening.
很多当地居民都是这样说的，这样一来，就很难判断政府数据的准确性。截止到周三晚间，数据显示，共有5500人死亡，26136人受伤，1757人失踪。
Mr. Pascual said that after having little to feed his siblings except the looted sardines in the first week after the typhoon, he had stood in line for household food rations from the government and obtained them. Food rations tend to be more readily available here than in the interior of Leyte Island, where the relief effort has moved more slowly. The siblings are also using a blue hygiene bucket of soaps, toothpaste and other basics provided by the United Nations Children’s Fund, better known as Unicef..
帕斯夸尔说，台风之后的第一个星期，除了抢回来的沙丁鱼，他基本上没有什么食物可以给自己的弟弟妹妹。此后，他排队领取了政府提供的家庭食品配给。与莱特岛内陆相比，这里更容易领到食品配给，而在内陆地区，救援工作开展得非常缓慢。他们兄妹还在用联合国儿童基金会(United Nations Children’s Fund)提供的蓝色卫生桶，里面有肥皂，牙膏和其他基本品。
Unicef offered the siblings the opportunity to move into the SOS Children’s Village, a home at the other end of Tacloban for children from families in difficulty. But after some discussion, the siblings have decided to remain at the damaged school, to be close to a second cousin, Frederick Centino, and the survivors among their neighborhood friends.
联合国儿童基金会提出，他们兄妹可以入住塔克洛班另一头的SOS儿童村(SOS Children’s Village)，这是专门为困难家庭的子女准备的。但是经过讨论，兄妹还是决定继续待在损毁的幼儿园里，这样离表兄弗雷德里克·圣迪诺(Frederick Centino)，以及他们社区里幸存下来的朋友，近一点。
Mr. Centino said that he and his wife already have a 3-year-old son and 2-year-old daughter and are also homeless and living in the same damaged school as Mr. Pascual and his siblings. They plan to help keep an eye on the orphans, he said. “They are big,” he said, “and they can help me manage the little ones.”
圣迪诺说，他和太太已经有了一个3岁的儿子和2岁的女儿，同样无家可归，跟帕斯夸尔兄妹栖居在同一所损毁的幼儿园里。他说，他们会关照这些孤儿，并表示，“他们年纪大了，能帮我管那些小的。”