MANILA — The Philippine Supreme Court upheld on Tuesday President Rodrigo Duterte’s declaration of martial law in the southern Philippines, which he says is needed to crush an uprising by militants linked to the Islamic State.
马尼拉——周二，菲律宾最高法院支持了罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)总统在菲律宾南部实行的戒严令。总统说，为了粉碎与伊斯兰国(Islamic State)相关的武装叛乱，需要实行戒严。
The court dismissed challenges to the order Mr. Duterte issued on May 23, days after militants launched attacks aimed at taking over the southern city of Marawi, where fighting still continues. The edict gives the military widespread powers not just in Marawi but across the large southern island of Mindanao, including carrying out warrantless arrests and setting up roadblocks and checkpoints.
该法院驳回了对杜特地5月23日签发的法令的诉讼挑战。法令签发前数日，武装份子发动了旨在控制南部城市马拉维的攻击，现在那里的战斗依然在继续。该法令给予军方广泛的权力，以进行未经授权的逮捕，设立路障和检查点，其覆盖范围不只是马拉维，还包括南部岛屿棉兰老的大部分地区。
Mr. Duterte had said Saturday that he would ignore the court if it struck down the order. Eleven of the 14 justices voted to uphold it, Ted Te, a spokesman for the court, said Tuesday. One said it was unconstitutional, and the three others said it should be limited to Marawi, Mr. Te said.
周六，杜特地表示，如果法院否决该法令，他将无视法院的裁决。周二，最高法院的发言人特德·特(Ted Te)表示，14名法官中有11名投票支持该法令。他还表示，有一名法官认为该法令违宪，另外三名法官认为它应仅限于马拉维。
The government’s chief lawyer, Jose Calida, said the ruling “underscores the existence of real and present rebellion that threatens the lives of our fellow Filipinos in Mindanao, and their much-cherished liberties.”
肩负政府首席法律顾问责任的何塞·卡利达(Jose Calida)表示，该裁决“突显出，目前确实存在威胁菲律宾同胞性命以及他们珍视的自由的叛乱”。
“As the conscience of our nation, the Supreme Court did not sit idly to watch our country get dismembered,” Mr. Cadila, the solicitor general, said in a statement. “In fact, this decision shows the honorable Supreme Court is one with the president in protecting and defending our country’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”
“最高法院出于对国家的良心，没有坐视我们的国家分崩离析，”司法部副部长卡利达在一项声明中说。“实际上，这项决定表明，尊敬的最高法院和总统站在一起，保护和保卫我们国家的主权和领土完整。”
Critics of Mr. Duterte have called his edict a throwback to the days of Ferdinand Marcos, the strongman under whose two-decade rule thousands of dissidents were killed or went missing. Protesters outside the Supreme Court on Tuesday said Mr. Duterte was adopting the dictatorial methods of Mr. Marcos, for whom the president has expressed admiration.
杜特地的批评者称他的法令会把菲律宾送回费迪南德·马科斯(Ferdinand Marcos)统治的时代。马科斯是一位铁腕人物，在他统治的20年里，成千上万异见人士被害或失踪。周二，最高法院外的抗议者表示，杜特地在实行马科斯的独裁统治——杜特地对马科斯表达过仰慕之情。
Julkipli Wadi, a political-science professor and head of the Institute of Islamic Studies at the University of the Philippines, said the ruling gave credence to critics’ fears that martial law would spread beyond Mindanao, given that both the government and the militants have predicted that Islamic State-inspired radicalism would rise.
菲律宾大学(University of the Philippines)伊斯兰研究学院院长、政治学教授胡尔基普利·瓦迪(Julkipli Wadi)表示，这项裁决加深了批评者的忧虑，即戒严令会扩展到棉兰老岛之外，因为政府和武装份子都预言，受伊斯兰国鼓舞的激进活动会增加。
“It will certainly boost Duterte’s draconian rule in Mindanao,” Mr. Wadi said of the ruling.
“那无疑会助长杜特地在棉兰老岛的严酷统治，”瓦迪在提起这项裁决时说。
Mr. Duterte has said that he might declare martial law throughout the Philippines if Islamist rebels gain footholds elsewhere in the country.
杜特地曾表示，如果伊斯兰叛乱在该国的其他地方占据立足点，他可能会对整个菲律宾实行戒严。
The military is still struggling to retake Marawi from Islamic State-inspired gunmen with the Philippine militant groups Abu Sayyaf and Maute, backed by fighters from the Middle East and elsewhere in Southeast Asia. Most of the 200,000 residents in the predominantly Muslim city have fled, and the intense fighting has killed 85 soldiers, 39 civilians and 337 rebels, according to the military.
军方在收回马拉维方面仍然面临困难。该市目前被受到伊斯兰国鼓舞的枪手所占据，这些人来自菲律宾武装组织阿布沙耶夫(Abu Sayyaf)和穆特(Maute)，得到了中东和东南亚其他地方的武装分子的支持。这座以穆斯林为主的城市的20万居民大多已经逃离，激烈的战斗导致85名士兵、39名平民和337名叛军死亡。
On the eve of the court’s ruling, Mr. Duterte gave a rare televised speech in which he rallied the troops fighting in Marawi and thanked them for their “relentless effort.”
在法院裁决前夕，杜特地罕见地发表电视讲话，鼓舞在马拉维战斗的部队，感谢他们的“不懈努力”。
“I enjoin the operating troops to carry on until our objective of wiping out these enemies of the state and the people has been achieved,” he said. He said martial law in Mindanao “will remain in effect to counter the persistent threat of terrorism and insurgency.”
“我命令作战部队继续战斗，直到我们实现目标，消灭国家和人民的敌人，”他说。他还表示，棉兰老岛的戒严“会继续实行，以对抗恐怖主义和叛乱的持续威胁”。
Mr. Duterte had said on Saturday that he would reject the ruling if the court struck down his edict, saying he would listen only to the armed forces.
周六，杜特地曾表示，如果法院否决他的法令，他会抵制它的裁决，称他只会听从部队的声音。
“It’s not dependent on the whim of the Supreme Court,” he said. “Should I believe them? When I see the situation is still chaotic and you ask me to lift it? I will arrest you and put you behind bars.”
“这不取决于最高法院的想法，”他说。“我应该相信他们吗？我看到情况依旧混乱，你让我取消戒严？我会把你抓起来，关进牢里。”
The martial law declaration has strong support in Congress, which is dominated by Mr. Duterte’s allies. Richard Javad Heydarian, a political-science professor at De La Salle University in Manila, said the court was likely to have been influenced by the two elected branches of government.
戒严令在国会拥有强力支持，而国会由杜特地的盟友主导。马尼拉德拉萨大学(De La Salle University)的政治学教授理查德·贾瓦德·海达里恩(Richard Javad Heydarian)表示，法院很可能受到了政府的两个民选分支的影响。
“Clearly, the Supreme Court is making decisions not irrespective of the broader political atmosphere,” Mr. Heydarian said.
“很显然，最高法院在做决定时，并不是没有受到更广泛的政治气氛的影响，”海达里恩说。