Fidel Castro, the fiery apostle of revolution who brought the Cold War to the Western Hemisphere in 1959 and then defied the United States for nearly half a century as Cuba’s maximum leader, bedeviling 11 American presidents and briefly pushing the world to the brink of nuclear war, died Friday. He was 90.
菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)周五去世，享年90岁。热情鼓吹革命的他曾在1959年把冷战的战火带到西半球，并在接下来的近半个世纪里以古巴最高领导人的身份对抗美国。他困扰了11位美国总统，并曾短暂地将全世界推向核战边缘。
His death was announced by Cuban state television.
古巴官方电视台宣布了他的死讯。
In declining health for several years, Mr. Castro had orchestrated what he hoped would be the continuation of his Communist revolution, stepping aside in 2006 when he was felled by a serious illness. He provisionally ceded much of his power to his younger brother Raúl, now 85, and two years later formally resigned as president. Raúl Castro, who had fought alongside Fidel Castro from the earliest days of the insurrection and remained minister of defense and his brother’s closest confidant, has ruled Cuba since then, although he has told the Cuban people he intends to resign in 2018.
多年来，卡斯特罗的健康状况每况愈下。在此期间，他精心安排，希望自己领导的共产主义革命能够继续下去。2006年，被重病击倒的卡斯特罗让位。他暂时将大量权力移交给自己的弟弟、现年85岁的劳尔(Raúl)，并于两年后正式辞任总统。自那时以来，劳尔·卡斯特罗一直统治着古巴，不过他对古巴民众表示自己打算在2018年辞职。劳尔·卡斯特罗从叛乱之初便与菲德尔·卡斯特罗并肩作战，且一直担任古巴国防部长，是他哥哥最亲密的知己。
Fidel Castro had held onto power longer than any other living national leader except Queen Elizabeth II. He became a towering international figure whose importance in the 20th century far exceeded what might have been expected from the head of state of a Caribbean island nation of 11 million people.
除女王伊丽莎白二世(Queen Elizabeth II)外，菲德尔·卡斯特罗掌权的时间比在世的其他任何国家元首都长。他成了一个大名鼎鼎的国际人物，在20世纪的重要性远远超出了外界对加勒比海地区一个人口1100万的岛国领导人的预期。
He dominated his country with strength and symbolism from the day he triumphantly entered Havana on Jan. 8, 1959, and completed his overthrow of Fulgencio Batista by delivering his first major speech in the capital before tens of thousands of admirers at the vanquished dictator’s military headquarters.
从1959年1月8日得意洋洋地进入哈瓦那的那一天开始，他就用力量和象征主义统治着这个国家，并通过在被征服的富尔亨西奥·巴蒂斯塔(Fulgencio Batista)设在首都的军事基地面向数万名支持者首次发表重要讲话的方式，彻底推翻了那位独裁者。
A spotlight shone on him as he swaggered and spoke with passion until dawn. Finally, white doves were released to signal Cuba’s new peace. When one landed on Mr. Castro, perching on a shoulder, the crowd erupted, chanting “Fidel! Fidel!” To the war-weary Cubans gathered there and those watching on television, it was an electrifying sign that their young, bearded guerrilla leader was destined to be their savior.
聚光灯打在身上的他趾高气昂，言语间透着激情，直到黎明。最后，有人放飞了白鸽，以象征古巴新的和平。当一只鸽子落到卡斯特罗的肩膀上时，人群爆发了，反复高呼“菲德尔！菲德尔！”。对聚集在现场的厌战的古巴民众和在电视上看到这一幕的那些人来说，这是一个激动人心的迹象，表明他们留着胡子的年轻游击队领袖注定是他们的救世主。
Most people in the crowd had no idea what Mr. Castro planned for Cuba. A master of image and myth, Mr. Castro believed himself to be the messiah of his fatherland, an indispensable force with authority from on high to control Cuba and its people.
当年，人群中的大部分人都不知道卡斯特罗对古巴的设想是什么。卡斯特罗是善用形象和神话的能手。他相信，他就是祖国的救星，是一种必不可少的力量，具有上苍赋予的控制古巴和古巴民众的权力。
He wielded power like a tyrant, controlling every aspect of the island’s existence. He was Cuba’s “Máximo Lider.” From atop a Cuban Army tank, he directed his country’s defense at the Bay of Pigs. Countless details fell to him, from selecting the color of uniforms that Cuban soldiers wore in Angola to overseeing a program to produce a superbreed of milk cows. He personally set the goals for sugar harvests. He personally sent countless men to prison.
他像暴君一样行使权力，掌控着岛上万物的方方面面。他是古巴的“最高领导人”。在猪湾，他站在古巴陆军的一辆坦克上指挥自己国家的防御力量。不计其数的细节要由他来裁定，从选择古巴士兵在安哥拉穿的军装颜色，到领导一个培养超级奶牛品种的计划。他亲自制定蔗糖的收成目标，亲自把无数人送进监狱。
But it was more than repression and fear that kept him and his totalitarian government in power for so long. He had both admirers and detractors in Cuba and around the world. Some saw him as a ruthless despot who trampled rights and freedoms; many others hailed him as the crowds did that first night, as a revolutionary hero for the ages.
但让他和他领导的集权主义政府得以掌权这么长时间的，不仅仅是镇压和恐惧。在古巴和全世界，有支持他的人，也有诋毁他的人。一些人认为他是一个残忍的专制君主，践踏权利和自由，其他不少人却像第一天晚上的人群一样，称颂他是一位名留青史的革命英雄。
Even when he fell ill and was hospitalized with diverticulitis in the summer of 2006, giving up most of his powers for the first time, Mr. Castro tried to dictate the details of his own medical care and orchestrate the continuation of his Communist revolution, engaging a plan as old as the revolution itself.
2006年夏天，他病倒并因憩室炎入院，第一次放下手中的大部分权力。即便如此，他仍试图强行规定自己医疗护理的细节，并精心安排他领导的共产主义革命的继续推进，所采用计划的历史和那场革命一样悠久。
By handing power to his brother, Mr. Castro once more raised the ire of his enemies in Washington. United States officials condemned the transition, saying it prolonged a dictatorship and again denied the long-suffering Cuban people a chance to control their own lives.
通过把权力交给自己的弟弟，卡斯特罗再次激起了他在华盛顿的敌人的愤怒。美国官员谴责这种权力过渡，称其延长了独裁统治，是再次拒绝让长期受苦的古巴民众有机会掌控自己的命运。
But in December 2014, President Obama used his executive powers to dial down the decades of antagonism between Washington and Havana by moving to exchange prisoners and normalize diplomatic relations between the two countries, a deal worked out with the help of Pope Francis and after 18 months of secret talks between representatives of both governments.
但2014年12月，通过着手交换囚犯并正常化外交关系，奥巴马总统利用自己的行政权力缓和了华盛顿和哈瓦那之间持续了几十年的敌意。这项协议是在教皇方济各(Pope Francis)的帮助下，经过两国政府的谈判代表长达18个月的秘密谈判后制定而成的。
Though increasingly frail and rarely seen in public, Mr. Castro even then made clear his enduring mistrust of the United States. A few days after President Obama’s highly publicized visit to Cuba in 2016 — the first by a sitting American president in 88 years — Mr. Castro penned a cranky response denigrating Mr. Obama’s overtures of peace and insisting that Cuba did not need anything the United States was offering.
尽管越来越虚弱且甚少出现在公共场合，但卡斯特罗仍清楚地表明了自己对美国由来已久的不信任。2016年，奥巴马总统访问古巴，受到广泛报道。这是88年来在任美国总统首次访问古巴。几天后，卡斯特罗写了一封奇怪的回应信，贬损奥巴马的示好姿态，并坚称古巴不需要美国提供的任何东西。
To many, Fidel Castro was a self-obsessed zealot whose belief in his own destiny was unshakable, a chameleon whose economic and political colors were determined more by pragmatism than by doctrine. But in his chest beat the heart of a true rebel. “Fidel Castro,” said Dr. Henry M. Wriston, president of the Council on Foreign Relations in the 1950s and early ’60s, “was everything a revolutionary should be.”
在很多人看来，菲德尔·卡斯特罗是一个自恋的狂热分子，对自己命运的信心坚定不移，是一条变色龙，决定其经济和政治颜色的是实用主义而非学说。但他胸膛里跳动着的，是一个真正的叛逆分子的心。“菲德尔·卡斯特罗，”在50年代和60年代初领导美国外交关系协会(Council on Foreign Relations)的亨利·M·里斯顿(Henry M. Wriston)说，“具备一个革命者应该有的一切特点。”
Mr. Castro was perhaps the most important leader to emerge from Latin America since the wars of independence in the early 19th century. He was decidedly the most influential shaper of Cuban history since his own hero, José Martí, struggled for Cuban independence in the late 19th century. Mr. Castro’s revolution transformed Cuban society and had a longer-lasting impact throughout the region than that of any other 20th-century Latin American insurrection, with the possible exception of the 1910 Mexican Revolution.
卡斯特罗大概是拉丁美洲自19世纪早期的一系列独立战争以来出现的最重要的领导人。他显然是他自己的英雄何塞·马蒂(José Martí)在19世纪末为古巴的独立而斗争以来，该国历史上最具影响力的塑造者。卡斯特罗领导的革命彻底改变了古巴社会，它对整个地区的影响比20世纪拉美地区其他任何一场反叛都更持久，1910年的墨西哥革命可能除外。
His legacy in Cuba and elsewhere has been a mixed record of social progress and abject poverty, of racial equality and political persecution, of medical advances and a degree of misery comparable to the conditions that existed in Cuba when he entered Havana as a victorious guerrilla commander in 1959.
对于古巴和其他地方的人们而言，他留下的是一份社会进步和穷困潦倒、种族平等和政治迫害、医学进步和苦难不幸共存的复杂成绩，那种苦难的程度堪比他1959年以一名获胜的游击队指挥官的身份进入哈瓦时古巴存在的情况。
That image made him a symbol of revolution throughout the world and an inspiration to many imitators. Hugo Chávez of Venezuela considered Mr. Castro his ideological godfather. Subcommander Marcos began a revolt in the mountains of southern Mexico in 1994, using many of the same tactics. Even Mr. Castro’s spotty performance as an aging autocrat in charge of a foundering economy could not undermine his established image.
那个形象让他在全世界成了革命的象征，也成了很多模仿者的灵感来源。委内瑞拉的乌戈·查维兹(Hugo Chávez)视卡斯特罗为其思想上的教父。1994年，副司令马科斯(Subcommander Marcos)开始在墨西哥南部的山区展开反叛活动时，使用了很多一模一样的战术。作为一名日渐衰老的独裁者，卡斯特罗负责掌管的经济日渐衰落，导致他的表现出现污点。即便如此，他已经确立下来的形象也没有受到破坏。
But beyond anything else, it was Mr. Castro’s obsession with the United States, and America’s obsession with him, that shaped his rule. After he embraced Communism, Washington portrayed him as a devil and a tyrant and repeatedly tried to remove him from power through an ill-fated invasion at the Bay of Pigs in 1961, an economic embargo that has lasted decades, assassination plots and even bizarre plans to undercut his prestige by making his beard fall out.
但正是卡斯特罗对美国的执迷和美国对他的执迷塑造了他的统治，这比其他任何一切都更重要。卡斯特罗信奉共产主义后，华盛顿把他描述成魔鬼和暴君，并多次试图把他赶下台。华盛顿采取的措施包括1961年那场注定以失败告终的猪湾入侵行动、持续了数十年的经济禁运、多项暗杀计划，乃至多个通过让他掉胡子来削弱其威望的怪异方案。
Mr. Castro’s defiance of American power made him a beacon of resistance in Latin America and elsewhere, and his bushy beard, long Cuban cigar and green fatigues became universal symbols of rebellion.
在拉美和其他地方，卡斯特罗对美国实力的不屑让他成了抵抗的灯塔。他浓密的胡须、细长的古巴雪茄和绿色的军装成了通用的反抗象征。
Mr. Castro’s understanding of the power of images, especially on television, helped him retain the loyalty of many Cubans even during the harshest periods of deprivation and isolation when he routinely blamed many of Cuba’s ills on America and its embargo. And his mastery of words in thousands of speeches, often lasting hours, imbued many Cubans with his own hatred of the United States by keeping them on constant watch for an invasion — military, economic or ideological — from the north.
卡斯特罗对形象，尤其是电视形象的威力的理解，帮助他留住了很多古巴人的忠心，哪怕是在最艰苦的贫穷和孤立时期。那时，他常常把古巴的很多问题归咎于美国及其禁运。他的演讲数以千计，且常常持续数小时。在这些演讲中，他精湛的语言能力促使古巴民众永远提防来自北方的入侵——不管是军事、经济还是思想上的——并通过这种方式把他自己对美国的仇恨灌输给他们。
Over many years Mr. Castro gave hundreds of interviews and retained the ability to twist the most compromising question to his favor. In a 1985 interview in Playboy magazine, he was asked how he would respond to President Ronald Reagan’s description of him as a ruthless military dictator. “Let’s think about your question,” Mr. Castro said, toying with his interviewer. “If being a dictator means governing by decree, then you might use that argument to accuse the pope of being a dictator.”
多年时间里，卡斯特罗接受了数百次采访，并保持住了让极其有损颜面的问题变得对自己有利的能力。1985年接受《花花公子》杂志(Playboy)的采访时，他被问及对罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)总统把他描述成残忍的军事独裁者的言论作何回应。“咱们来想想你这个问题，”卡斯特罗说，把采访者玩于股掌之上。“如果独裁者的意思是按照最高领导人的指令执政，那你兴许可以用这个理由去指责教皇是独裁者。”
He turned the question back on Reagan: “If his power includes something as monstrously undemocratic as the ability to order a thermonuclear war, I ask you, who then is more of a dictator, the president of the United States or I?”
他把这个问题抛回到了里根身上：“如果他的权力包括能够下令发起一场热核战争那样极其不民主的内容，那么我问你，谁更是独裁者，美国总统还是我？”
After leading his guerrillas against a repressive Cuban dictator, Mr. Castro, in his early 30s, aligned Cuba with the Soviet Union and used Cuban troops to support revolution in Africa and throughout Latin America.
在带领游击队员对抗专制的古巴独裁者后，30出头的卡斯特罗让古巴和苏联结盟，并用古巴军队支持非洲和拉丁美洲各国的革命。
His willingness to allow the Soviets to build missile-launching sites in Cuba led to a harrowing diplomatic standoff between the United States and the Soviet Union in the fall of 1962, one that could have escalated into a nuclear exchange. The world remained tense until the confrontation was defused 13 days after it began, and the launching pads were dismantled.
他愿意让苏联在古巴修建导弹发射场这件事，导致1962年秋美国和苏联之间出现了一场激烈的外交对峙。对峙本可能会升级成一场核对决。全球局势紧张，直到对峙在开始13天后得到缓和，发射场被拆除。
With the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Mr. Castro faced one of his biggest challenges: surviving without huge Communist subsidies. He defied predictions of his political demise. When threatened, he fanned antagonism toward the United States. And when the Cuban economy neared collapse, he legalized the United States dollar, which he had railed against since the 1950s, only to ban dollars again a few years later when the economy stabilized.
随着1991年苏联解体，卡斯特罗遇到了他最大的挑战之一：在没有来自共产主义盟友的巨额补贴的情况下活下来。他无视了称他即将在政治上走向灭亡的预言。受到威胁时，他便煽动对美国的敌意。古巴经济接近崩溃时，从50年代开始便一直对抗美元的他批准了美元合法化，但几年后，当经济稳定下来时，他再次禁止美元流通。
Mr. Castro continued to taunt American presidents for a half-century, frustrating all of Washington’s attempts to contain him. After nearly five decades as a pariah of the West, even when his once booming voice had withered to an old man’s whisper and his beard had turned gray, he remained defiant.
在半个世纪里，卡斯特罗持续奚落了历届美国总统，并让华盛顿为遏制他而进行的所有尝试全部失败。在被西方遗弃近五十年后，尽管曾经洪亮的声音变成了一个老人的低语，胡子也变得花白，但他依然态度强硬。
He often told interviewers that he identified with Don Quixote, and like Quixote he struggled against threats both real and imagined, preparing for decades, for example, for another invasion that never came. As the leaders of every other nation of the hemisphere gathered in Quebec City in April 2001 for the third Summit of the Americas, an uninvited Mr. Castro, then 74, fumed in Havana, presiding over ceremonies commemorating the embarrassing defeat of C.I.A.-backed exiles at the Bay of Pigs in 1961. True to character, he portrayed his exclusion as a sign of strength, declaring that Cuba “is the only country in the world that does not need to trade with the United States.”
他常对采访他的人说自己认同堂·吉诃德(Don Quixote)，并且和吉坷德一样，困扰他的威胁既有现实的，也有想象出来的。比如，几十年来，他一直在为下一次入侵做准备，但这样的入侵从未发生过。2001年4月，当同一半球其他所有国家的领导人都聚集在魁北克市，参加第三届美洲国家首脑会议(Summit of the Americas)时，未受邀请的卡斯特罗在哈瓦那怒气冲冲。时年74岁的他组织了一系列活动，纪念1961年的猪湾胜利。他当年击败了由中央情报局(CIA)支持的流亡者，令对手颜面全失。他把自己被排除在外说成是一种实力的象征，宣布古巴“是世界上唯一一个不需要和美国做买卖的国家”。这的确很像堂·吉诃德。