MANILA — The office of President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines protested on Monday that a New York Times article and photographic essay on the country’s antidrug campaign had been “totally one-sided.”
马尼拉——菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)的办公室周一表示抗议，称《纽约时报》发表的一篇有关该国缉毒运动的文章和摄影报道“完全是一面之词”。
Martin Andanar, the president’s communications secretary, complained in a statement that the piece, titled “They Are Slaughtering Us Like Animals” and published on Wednesday, “depicts the Philippines as the Wild, Wild West in this part of the world.” He added, “This is farthest from the truth.”
总统府通讯办公室主任马丁·安达纳尔(Martin Andanar)在一份声明中提出抗议，称这篇于上周三发表的名为《他们像屠宰动物一样屠杀我们》(They Are Slaughtering Us Like Animals)的报道，“把菲律宾描绘成了这个世界的荒蛮西部。”他接着讲道，“这严重偏离了事实。”
Daniel Berehulak, the photographer and author of the article, spent five weeks documenting the president’s antidrug campaign. He photographed 57 slain victims at 41 locations in metropolitan Manila.
这篇文章的作者和图片摄影师丹尼尔·贝雷胡拉克(Daniel Berehulak)花了五周的时间记录菲律宾总统的反毒品运动。他在大都市马尼拉的41个地点拍摄了57名遭到杀戮的受害者。
His article reported that since the beginning of July, about 2,000 people had been killed by the police and that there had been more than 3,500 unsolved killings in the country. These figures match the numbers given to the news media by a Philippine police spokesman, Dionardo Carlos.
据他的报道，自今年7月初以来，该国已经大约有2000人死于警方之手，同时还有3500多起未侦破的凶杀案。这些数字与菲律宾警方发言人迪奥纳尔多·卡洛斯(Dionardo Carlos)向新闻媒体提供的数字一致。
Mr. Andanar said that about a third of the unsolved killings had been identified as drug-related.
安达纳尔表示，未侦破凶杀案中大约有三分之一被确认与毒品有关。
“The rest are murder and homicide cases perpetrated by riding-in-tandem gunmen which the Philippine National Police (P.N.P.) is now investigating, the results of which will be made public in due time,” he said in the statement.
“其他的则是双骑杀手制造的谋杀或凶杀案，菲律宾国家警察（Philippine National Police，简称PNP）正在对他们进行调查，结果将在适当的时候公布，”他在声明中表示。
Killings by gunmen riding in tandem on a motorbike are often drug-related attacks by vigilantes. Critics have said that the police are behind some vigilante killings, but Mr. Andanar denied that charge in his statement.
共骑一辆摩托车的双骑杀手制造的杀戮往往是由治安队员实施的与毒品有关的袭击行动。批评人士称，是警方在背后主使了一些治安队员的杀戮行动，但安达纳尔在声明中否认了这项指控。
“The police have nothing to do with these killings,” he said. “The president has not given any direct orders for them to kill drug dealers and users on mere suspicion. Police operatives only neutralize those who violently resist arrest, or else they could be the ones who end up dead. Thus, the president’s marching order to the police is that they have the right to defend themselves when their lives are endangered.”
“警方与这些杀戮无关，”他说。“总统没有直接下命让他们仅仅出于怀疑便杀死毒贩或吸毒者。警方只对那些激烈反抗拘捕的人采取行动，要不然死的就是他们了。所以，总统向警方发出的行动命令是他们有权在生命受到威胁时进行自卫。”
Michael Slackman, The Times’s International editor, stood behind the coverage. “Daniel’s work was an important contribution to our ongoing and in-depth coverage of the Philippines,” he said in a statement. “He took us onto the streets in a visceral, human way, capturing the cold reality of state policy while putting deaths in proper context.”
时报国际新闻编辑迈克尔·斯莱克曼(Michael Slackman)是这次报道的后盾。“丹尼尔的工作对我们持续和深度报道菲律宾做出了重要的贡献，”他在一份声明中表示。“他以一种发自内心的、人性的方式，将我们带到菲律宾的街头，捕捉到国家政策的冷酷现实，同时又将死亡放在了合适的背景下予以关照。”
In a speech on Monday at an awards ceremony in Manila, the capital, Mr. Duterte said fewer people were being killed in the antidrug campaign, but did not provide specifics.
周一，杜特地在马尼拉举行的一场颁奖仪式上发表演讲，称死于这次反毒品运动的人没有那么多，但他没有提供具体的数据。
The president, who has called repeatedly for the killing of drug dealers and addicts, added that he did not enjoy seeing the deaths of his people.
这位曾多次号召杀死毒贩和吸毒者的总统还表示，他并不喜欢看到自己的人民死亡。
“It doesn’t give me happiness to see a Filipino die,” he said. “But given a choice between a disorderly and failed state in my country.…” he said, without completing his thought.
“看到菲律宾人死去，我并不高兴，”他说。“但让我选择是一个混乱和失败的国家还是……”他说道，但没有把这句话说完。
Mr. Andanar, a former television news anchor, said in his statement that a number of police officers had been killed, but did not cite a figure. He said their deaths demonstrated “the magnitude of the drug problem in the country, and the need for resolute and decisive response by law enforcement.”
之前担任电视新闻主播的安达纳尔在他的声明中表示，有多名警察在行动中殉职，但没有透露具体有多少。他还表示，他们的死亡证明了“这个国家的毒品问题的严重程度，说明需要执法机关下定决心，采取果断的回应。
He asked the foreign news media to “present both sides of the story” when covering the antidrug campaign.
他要求国外新闻机构在报道这个反毒品运动时要“展示这个故事的两面”。
(The Times published a follow-up article on Friday quoting many Filipinos as supporting Mr. Duterte’s antidrug campaign and describing it as a welcome antidote to the pervasive drug crimes that they said had traumatized the country.)
（时报在上周五发表了一篇后续报道，援引了许多菲律宾人的话，他们支持杜特地的反毒品运动，称它是对付猖獗的毒品犯罪的有效方法。他们说，这些罪行给这个国家带来了创伤。）
“We in government, including the Philippine National Police and other law enforcement agencies, would be more than willing to help in unearthing the truth and presenting the facts about the drug menace to the public,” Mr. Andanar said.
“包括菲律宾国家警察和其他执法机构在内，我们政府十分乐意帮助揭露现实，向公众呈现有关毒品威胁的事实，”安达纳尔说。