WASHINGTON — IT’S a tough call to figure out which place is more benighted: Hollywood or Saudi Arabia.
华盛顿——要确定哪个地方更愚昧，这是一个艰难的抉择：是好莱坞，还是沙特阿拉伯？
Saudi Arabia was pulling ahead with all its beheadings and its top cleric’s fatwa on chess as “the work of Satan.”
沙特阿拉伯实行斩首死刑，该国高级神职人员还下达指令，称国际象棋是“撒旦的作品”，因此在两者的较量中遥遥领先。
But then Hollywood took the lead with its Jim Crow Oscars, Scully being offered half of Mulder’s pay for the “X-Files” reboot, and its second-class treatment of Rey — the scrappy heroine of “Star Wars: The Force Awakens.” Rey, played by Daisy Ridley, embodies the awakening Force. Yet even the director, J.J. Abrams, called it “preposterous and wrong” that Rey’s action figure was missing in action from some game and toy tie-ins — a traditionally male realm.
但好莱坞也在迎头赶上：奥斯卡奖提名名单仿佛是在执行吉姆·克劳(Jim Crow)的种族隔离法案；在重启拍摄的《X档案》(X-Files)中，史卡利(Scully)的片酬只有马尔德(Mulder)的一半；《星球大战：原力觉醒》(Star Wars: The Force Awakens)中斗志旺盛的女主角蕾伊(Rey)，被好莱坞当作二等公民对待。由黛茜·雷德利(Daisy Ridley)饰演的蕾伊，体现了觉醒的“原力”。但就连导演J·J·艾布拉姆斯(J.J. Abrams)都说，一些游戏和玩具周边产品中，忽视了蕾伊这个动作角色，这是“荒谬和错误的”，而这些产品传统上是男性的领域。
And Lucasfilm is run by a girl action figure, Kathleen Kennedy, so go figure.
而卢卡斯影业(Lucasfilm)是由一位女性人物凯瑟琳·肯尼迪(Kathleen Kennedy)运营的，所以你去琢磨吧。
That is why it’s so inspiring to see a woman out on the campaign trail who has had such a historic impact on feminism, helping to recast outmoded assumptions about women.
正因为如此，看到一位对女权主义产生过历史性影响的女性参加竞选，让人感到十分振奋。这有助于彻底改变对女性过时的观念。
Yes, Sarah Palin, I’m giving you a shout-out.
是的，萨拉·佩林(Sarah Palin)，我是在说你。
Before Palin, if a woman flamed out in a spectacular fashion, it was considered an X through the X chromosome. If Billie Jean King lost to Bobby Riggs, women would be seen as second-class athletes. If Geraldine Ferraro seemed unfit for the White House, all women might be judged incapable.
佩林之前，如果一名女性在大庭广众之前一败涂地，那么这会被认为是所有女性的失败。如果当年比利·简·金(Billie Jean King)输给了鲍比·里格斯(Bobby Riggs)，女性就会被视为二流的运动员。如果杰罗丁·费拉罗(Geraldine Ferraro)被认为不适合进入白宫，可能所有女性都会被认为能力不足。
But when Palin turned out to be utterly unqualified and unintelligible, spouting her own special Yoda-like language, it did not reflect poorly on women as a whole — only on her and John McCain. What the hell were you thinking, Senator?
但佩林表现得完全不合格，显得莫名其妙，只能用尤达大师(Yoda)般的独特语言喋喋不休时，却并没有从整体上让女性的形象大打折扣——只影响了她和约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)。麦凯恩参议员，您脑子里到底是怎么想的？
Ordinarily, it’s considered sexist to call a woman shrill. But Palin liberated us on that score. She really is shrill.
通常情况下，形容一名女性声音刺耳，就会被认为是性别歧视。但在这一点上佩林解放了我们——她真的是很刺耳。
Ordinarily, it’s dicey to focus on what a woman in politics is wearing. But again, Palin has freed us up. She sported a cardigan so gaudy and rogue at her Iowa endorsement of Donald Trump (the man who viciously mocked her former running mate’s war record) that we would be remiss not to mention that it was the sartorial reflection of Palin and Trump themselves.
通常，关注女性在竞选中的穿着是有风险的。但佩林又一次解放了我们。她在艾奥瓦州为唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)站台时，穿的那件毛衫是实在庸俗怪异，如果不说这在缝纫方面反映了佩林和特朗普本人，那就是我们的失职了。（特朗普还曾经恶毒嘲讽过她的前竞选搭档在越战中的经历。）
Ordinarily, you have to tread gingerly in critiquing a working woman on her mothering skills. But Palin’s brawling brood runs so wild around the state she once governed, in a way that is so contrary to her evangelistic, sanctimonious homilies on family values, that it seems only Christian to advise her to study the Obamas to see what exceptional parenting looks like.
通常情况下，在批评一名女性教育孩子的能力时，必须要小心翼翼。但佩林家的孩子们很闹腾，在她曾管辖的州里肆无忌惮，这与她关于家庭价值观的道貌岸然的福音派说教大相径庭，以至于只有建议她向奥巴马一家学习怎么带孩子，才是基督徒应有的做法。
With Palin and Trump, a failed reality star and a successful one, gall is divided into two parts. There has been a lot of talk this campaign season about how women pols bring superior qualities to the table: collegiality and listening skills. But Sarahcuda shows that we are truly the equals of men, capable of narcissistic explosions, brazen hypocrisy and unapologetic greed. She had barely finished the endorsement Tuesday when she began using it to raise money for SarahPAC, so she can take her show on the road.
在佩林和特朗普这里（一位是失败的真人秀明星，一位是成功的真人秀明星），让人恼火的原因有两个方面。在这个竞选季中，很多人都在谈论，女性政治人物把她们的优秀品质展示了出来，比如合作精神和倾听技巧。但是佩林的做派证明了，我们真的是与男性不相上下，也可以无比自恋、厚颜无耻的虚伪和肆无忌惮的贪婪。周二刚刚正式支持了特朗普，她就开始用此事来为SarahPAC筹集资金，以便自己投身政治角逐。
Her oldest son, Track, was a kid with a temper before he served in Iraq for a year, conveniently shipping off in the fall of 2008 as his mother began her hockey-mom spiel. The 26-year-old was arrested Monday on an assault charge, accused of punching his girlfriend in the face and kicking her during an alcohol-fueled argument at the Palins’ home in Wasilla, Alaska. His girlfriend told the police that he was also waving around an AR-15 assault rifle.
她的大儿子崔克(Track)一直脾气暴躁，后来曾赴伊拉克服役一年。2008年秋，在他的母亲开始夸夸其谈地讲“冰球妈妈”时，被恰逢其时地送到了前方。星期一，26岁的崔克因人身伤害而被捕，他被控在佩林一家位于阿拉斯加州瓦西拉的家中，因醉酒争吵而拳打女友面部并踢她。他的女友告诉警察，当时他还挥舞着一把AR–15突击步枪。
Instead of just admitting that her family is a mess, Palin exhibited Trump-like swagger, conjuring a story in an attempt to gin up the crowd and occlude her son’s behavior.
不但没有承认她的家里一团糟，佩林反而还表现出了特朗普式的招摇，编造了一番故事，企图蛊惑民众并遮掩她儿子的行为。
She used the last refuge of scoundrels in Tulsa, Okla., Wednesday, wrapping herself in patriotism. In her convoluted, disingenuous way, she charged President Obama with a lack of “respect” for veterans and suggested that Track had post-traumatic stress disorder and became “hardened,” implying this is what led to the incident prompting his arrest. This from the archconservative who presents herself as a model of personal responsibility and scourge of victimhood?
星期三，她在俄克拉何马州塔尔萨市运用了“无赖最后的庇护所”，用爱国主义来包装自己。她用她那虚伪、令人费解的方式，控诉奥巴马总统对退伍军人缺乏“尊重”，并表示崔克患有创伤后应激障碍(PTSD)，于是变得“冷酷”，暗示这是导致他遭到逮捕的原因。这位将自己包装成个人责任的典范，抨击受害者心态的极端保守派，怎么可以这么说？
Outraged vets urged Palin not to reduce PTSD to a political “chew toy,” as one put it, or to excuse domestic violence by citing the disorder.
愤怒的退伍军人要求佩林不要把PTSD贬低成一种政治上的“咀嚼玩具”（有人如此形容），或借用这种障碍来解释家庭暴力。
The rattlebrained Palin has reversed her Iraq position, so that now her stance somehow matches Trump’s consistent and prescient one against the Iraq invasion.
愚蠢多嘴的佩林已经扭转了她对伊拉克战争的立场，于是现在她的态度在某种程度上与特朗普相符了——后者仿佛有先见之明，一直反对入侵伊拉克。
When she saw Track off to Iraq in 2008, she echoed W.’s specious argument, calling the war a “righteous cause” to avenge “the enemies who planned and carried out” 9/11. But in her endorsement of Trump, she praised Rand Paul, who thinks we should have left Saddam Hussein in place, and argued that America should stop “footin’ the bill” for oil-rich nations and “their squirmishes that have been going on for centuries, where they’re fightin’ each other and yellin’ ‘Allah akbar,’ calling jihad on each other’s heads for ever and ever.”
当她在2008年送崔克前往伊拉克时，她附和了乔治·W·布什似是而非的说法，称这场战争是向“策划和执行9·11恐怖袭击的敌人”复仇的“正义事业”。但在她为特朗普站台时，她赞扬了兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)，后者认为我们当初应该留着萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)。佩林还说，美国应该停止为石油资源丰富的那些国家“买单”，而且“他们的那个什么已经持续了几个世纪，一直高喊着‘真主至大’打来打去，对彼此发起圣战直到永永远远。”
Hillary Clinton is presenting herself as the embodiment of women, an American Marianne, pushing her gender in an all-for-one-one-for-all, now-or-never way. She’s even campaigning this week in Iowa with Billie Jean King. Women should support her because if she founders, it will be bad for women. One Democratic senator said privately that many Democrats believe that Hillary is still the presumed nominee only because she is a woman.
希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)将自己展示为女性的化身和美国的玛丽安娜(Marianne)，以一种“人人为我、我为人人”、机不可失的态度来推销自己的性别。她甚至在本周同比利·简·金一起参加了艾奥瓦州的竞选活动。女性应该支持她，因为如果她失败了，对女性而言可是非常糟糕的。一位民主党参议员私下说，许多民主党人之所以还认为希拉里料将成为候选人，原因仅仅是她是女人。
But Palin has done us a favor by proving that a woman can stumble, babble incoherently on stage and spew snide garbage, and it isn’t a blot on the female copybook.
但佩林帮了我们一个忙，她证明女人可以犯错、在台上语无伦次并且口无遮拦地攻击讽刺，而这并不是全体女性的污点。
It’s all on her. Can I get a hallelujah?
这都要算在她一人的头上。我能得到感激的欢呼吗？