PARIS — The monarchical majesty of the French presidency suffered an undignified blow early this year when paparazzi photographed the head of state, François Hollande, scurrying away on the back of a scooter from an assignation with a secret lover. This week it took an unprecedented new hit: Mr. Hollande’s predecessor in the Élysée Palace, Nicolas Sarkozy, whose phone had been tapped by investigators, was taken into police custody.
巴黎——法国总统有如君主般威严，今年年初却遭受打击，一度蒙羞。当时，摄影师拍到总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)骑着小摩托车去和秘密情人幽会。本周，又出现了一个前所未有的新打击：奥朗德的爱丽舍宫前任尼古拉·萨科齐(Nicolas Sarkozy)被警方羁押，之前他的电话已经遭到调查人员的窃听。
The detention of Mr. Sarkozy, France’s president from 2007 to 2012, lasted only 15 hours, but the spectacle, covered nonstop by television crews camped outside the offices of the judicial police in the Paris suburb of Nanterre, was an indecorous new low for an office created by Charles de Gaulle as both the acme of political power and the embodiment of France’s grandeur.
萨科齐曾于2007至2012年期间担任法国总统，虽然对他的羁押只持续了15个小时，但是这场奇观却刷新了总统职位颜面的下限；由夏尔·戴高乐(Charles de Gaulle)设立的这个职位，既是法国政治权力的至高点，也是法国威严的象征。电视摄制组在巴黎楠泰尔郊区司法警察办公室外安营扎寨，不间断地报道这起事件。
Yann Moix, a French writer and filmmaker, summed up a mood of dismay at the indignities visited on France’s once-lofty presidency in a television talk show dedicated to Mr. Sarkozy’s detention, which stretched so late into the night that the former president’s chauffeur went home without him.
在一个专门报道萨科齐被拘留事件的电视访谈节目里，法国作家和电影制片人扬·穆瓦(Yann Moix)的话代表了曾经地位尊崇的法国总统遭到这种羞辱时，人们产生的惊愕情绪。此次拘留持续到了深夜很晚的时候，以至于这位前总统的司机单独开车回了家。
“The car of Nicolas Sarkozy is empty,” Mr. Moix said after watching footage of the Citroën limousine, its back seat unoccupied, pulling away from the Nanterre police offices. “The Élysée Palace often seems empty these days, too. What happened to the republic?”
“萨科齐的车是空的，”穆瓦说，他在电视上看到这辆雪铁龙豪华轿车驶离了楠泰尔警察局，后座上没有人。“爱丽舍宫这些日子也显得有些空荡荡的。这个共和国发生了什么事？”
Angst over the state of the republic, and life in general, is something of a perennial condition in France, where the present never seems to quite match up to the glories, real or imagined, of the past.
对共和国的状态感到焦虑，对整个生活感到焦虑，这在法国属于常态，该国的现状似乎永远不能和昔日辉煌媲美，无论那种辉煌是真实的还是想象中的。
The French presidency, the centerpiece of the new constitutional and quasi-monarchical order put in place in 1958 and known as the Fifth Republic, was tailored by de Gaulle to fit his own outsize personality and sense of mission. This ensured that nobody else would ever fill its grandiose dimensions. “I had no predecessor and will have no successor,” de Gaulle observed.
法国总统职位，是1958年实施的新宪法和被称为“法兰西第五共和国”(Fifth Republic)的准君主政权的核心，戴高乐创立了这个职位，用来满足他异于常人的性格和使命感。所以也就始终没有其他人能配上这个职位的恢宏光彩。“我没有前任，也不会有任何继任者，”戴高乐曾经说。
But the shrinking of the French presidency, a process built into its original design, has been accelerated of late not only by the banal misadventures in Mr. Hollande’s private life and an avalanche of judicial troubles for his right-wing predecessor, but also by a growing public disenchantment with all institutions of state.
法国总统光彩的日益消退，虽然这本来就是其内在设计产生的一个必然过程，却在最近加快了速度，这不仅和奥朗德私生活中平淡无奇的不幸事件，及其右翼前任陷入的无数官司有关，也是因为公众对这个国家的所有机构都越来越不抱幻想。
“There is a feeling that the Fifth Republic has exhausted itself,” said Christophe Barbier, chief editor of L’Express, a newsmagazine. “Things can’t go on like this,” he added, predicting “an enormous cracking” of the system if the presidency and subordinate institutions cannot prove themselves up to the task of reviving France’s sluggish economy, generating jobs, and finding an honorable role for a former world power that now gets hectored by Brussels over its missed budget targets.
“人们有一种感觉：第五共和国气数已尽，”新闻杂志《快报》(L’Express)的主编克里斯托夫·巴比尔(Christophe Barbier)说。“事情不能再这样下去了，”他说。总统及其下属机构需要证明自己可以重振不景气的经济，可以创造就业机会，并为法国找到一个受尊敬的角色；法国一度是世界强国，现在却由于没有实现预算目标而遭到欧盟的斥责。如果他们做不到这些，这个制度就会出现“一个巨大的裂缝”，巴比尔说。