IRBIL, Iraq — Meeting with the American ambassador some years ago in Baghdad, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki detailed what he believed was the latest threat of a coup orchestrated by former officers of Saddam Hussein’s Baath Party.
伊拉克埃尔比勒——伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)数年前在巴格达会见美国大使时详述了他心中的最新威胁——萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)生前领导的复兴社会党(Baath Party)的原军官在策划政变。
“Don’t waste your time on this coup by the Baathists,” the ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad, chided him, dismissing his conspiracy theories as fantasy.
美国大使扎尔梅·哈利勒扎德(Zalmay Khalilzad)回答，“不要在复兴社会党的什么政变上浪费时间。”他没有理会马利基的阴谋论，认为他在凭空想象。
Now, though, with Iraq facing its gravest crisis in years, as Sunni insurgents have swept through northern and central Iraq, Mr. Maliki’s claims about Baathist plots have been at least partly vindicated. While fighters for the extremist Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, once an offshoot of Al Qaeda, have taken on the most prominent role in the new insurgency, they have done so in alliance with a deeply rooted network of former loyalists to Saddam Hussein.
如今，随着逊尼派叛乱分子横扫伊拉克北部及中部地区，该国正面临多年来最严重的危机，而马利基有关复兴社会党阴谋的说法至少部分获得了证实。伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）曾是基地组织的一个分支，虽然该极端团体的武装分子在最近的叛乱活动中发挥了最突出的作用，但他们之所以能做到这一点，是因为与萨达姆·侯赛因的生前支持者构成的一个根深蒂固的组织联手。
The involvement of the Baathists helps explain why just a few thousand Islamic State in Iraq and Syria fighters, many of them fresh off the battlefields of Syria, have been able to capture so much territory so quickly. It sheds light on the complexity of the forces aligned against Baghdad in the conflict — not just the foreign-influenced group known as ISIS, but many homegrown groups, too. And with the Baathists’ deep social and cultural ties to many areas now under insurgent control, it stands as a warning of how hard it might be for the government to regain territory and restore order.
复兴社会党成员的参与在一定程度上解释了为何区区几千名ISIS武装分子就能如此迅速地占领这么多土地，尤其是其中许多武装分子刚离开了叙利亚战场。这有助于解释在本轮冲突中联手对抗巴格达的力量的复杂性——不仅有受外国势力影响的ISIS，还有很多本土团体。由于复兴社会党与目前处于叛乱分子控制之下的许多地区有着深层的社会文化联系，这也是一个警告：政府可能很难收复失地，恢复秩序。
Many of the former regime loyalists, including intelligence officers and Republican Guard soldiers — commonly referred to as the “deep state” in the Arab world — belong to a group called the Men of the Army of the Naqshbandia Order, often referred to as J.R.T.N., the initials of its Arabic name. The group announced its establishment in 2007, not long after the execution of Mr. Hussein, and its putative leader, Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri, was one of Mr. Hussein’s most trusted deputies and the highest-ranking figure of the old regime who avoided capture by the Americans.
很多拥护前政权的人都隶属于一个名为纳克什班迪教团军（ Men of the Army of the Naqshbandia Order，阿拉伯语简称为JRTN）的组织，其中包括以前的情报官员及共和国卫队成员——在阿拉伯世界，这些人常被称为“深暗势力”(deep state)。该组织于2007年宣布成立，也就是侯赛因被处死后不久，其公认的领袖伊扎特·易卜拉欣·杜里(Izzat Ibrahim al-Douri)是侯赛因最信任的副手之一，还属于逃脱了美国追捕的旧政权高层人物之列。
Referring to the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria’s fighters, Michael Knights, an analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy who has researched the Naqshbandia group, said, “They couldn’t have seized a fraction of what they did without coordinated alliances with other Sunni groups.”
谈到ISIS时，在华盛顿近东政策研究所(Washington Institute for Near East Policy)研究JRTN的分析人士迈克尔·奈茨(Michael Knights)表示，“没有其他逊尼派组织的协调合作，他们远不会有现在的战绩。”
In some areas under militant control, including areas around Mosul, Kirkuk and Tikrit, he said, “there are definitely pockets where the Naqshbandias are wearing the pants.”
他表示，在武装分子控制的一些地区，比如摩苏尔、基尔库克和提克里特附近，“绝对有纳克什班迪教团军掌控的地方。”
The role the Baathists are playing in the current uprising justifies not only Mr. Maliki’s suspicions, but also the longstanding concerns of American intelligence officers. As American forces were winding down operations in Iraq, they frequently predicted that the Baathists were well positioned to exploit Sunni grievances and mount a violent challenge to the government.
复兴社会党在当前叛乱活动中所发挥的作用不仅证实了马利基的怀疑，还证实了美国情报官员长期以来担心的问题。随着美军逐步撤出在伊拉克的活动，情报部门多次预言，复兴社会党已经做好了准备，要利用逊尼派的愤怒，对政府发动猛烈攻击。
Analysts say the former regime figures, whose group combines strands of Islamic thought with notions of Arab nationalism typical of Baath ideology, are bedfellows with the Islamist extremists in one respect: Both sides are determined to restore Sunni rule to Iraq and rid the country of what they see as the pernicious influence of Iran, which like Iraq has a Shiite majority. Like the extremists, the former regime figures have won sympathy from ordinary Sunnis who are alienated by Mr. Maliki’s sectarian policies.
前政权的遗留人物组成的JRTN结合了部分的伊斯兰教思想，以及复兴社会党理念中典型的阿拉伯民族主义概念。分析人士表示，他们在一个方面与伊斯兰主义极端分子达成了一致：双方都决心在伊拉克恢复逊尼派统治，清除他们认为的伊朗对伊拉克的恶劣影响。与伊拉克一样，伊朗也是个什叶派人口占多数的国家。前政权人物与极端分子均获得了受到马利基的宗派政策排斥的逊尼派平民的同情。
“Our problem is with Maliki, and we will take him down and anyone that stands next to him,” said Abu Abid al-Rahman, a Naqshbandia leader in northern Iraq, in an interview.
“我们的问题在于马利基。我们要把他以及他的所有支持者一起赶下台，”伊拉克北部的JRTN领导人阿布·阿比德·拉赫曼(Abu Abid al-Rahman)在采访中说。
He added: “We want to control the land all the way to Baghdad to take down Maliki’s government and to end the Iranian influence in Iraq. What is happening in Iraq today is a result of Maliki’s sectarian policy in Iraq.”
他还说：“我们要控制通往巴格达的所有土地，推翻马利基政府，终结伊朗对伊拉克的影响。伊拉克今天的处境是马利基在伊拉克实施宗派政策的结果。”
While the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria group counts many foreign fighters among its ranks, the Naqshbandias are a homegrown organization. Hassan Hassan, an expert on Sunni insurgent groups who is based in Abu Dhabi, recently wrote that the Naqshbandia group consists of thousands of fighters and “is a strong rival to ISIS and has strong social roots in the community.”
ISIS中包含许多外国武装人员，JRTN却是一个本土组织。目前在阿布扎比的研究逊尼派叛乱团体的专家哈桑·哈桑(Hassan Hassan)近期写道，JRTN有数千名武装人员，“是可与ISIS匹敌的强大团体，在民众中也有着深厚的社会根基。”
While they may be allies today in the interest of fighting a common enemy — the Shiite-dominated government of Mr. Maliki — the two sides are unlikely to coexist if they should attain power in some areas. The Baathists, being more secular and more nationalist, have no interest in living under the harsh Islamic law that ISIS has already started to put in place in Mosul.
它们在抵抗同一个敌人，即什叶派控制的马利基政府，目前算得上是盟友。虽说如此，假如在某些地区获得了权力，双方不太可能和平共处。对于更加世俗化且民族主义色彩更为强烈的复兴社会党而言，并没有兴趣依照ISIS推崇的严苛的伊斯兰教法生活。ISIS已经开始在摩苏尔实施伊斯兰教法。
“We are fighting now with ISIS, but we are protecting Iraq from their religious ideas,” said Abu Tulayha al-Obaidi, a Naqshbandia fighter in northern Iraq, who said the group gets most of its weapons from smugglers coming from Syria, Turkey and Iraq’s Kurdish region in the north. “We will not kill innocent people, or soldiers who put down their weapons. We are like the new brain of ISIS.”
“我们目前在与ISIS并肩作战，但是我们还在保护伊拉克不受他们宗教理念的侵蚀，”伊拉克北部的JRTN武装人员阿布·图拉伊哈·奥贝迪(Abu Tulayha al-Obaidi)说。他表示，他们的大部分武器来自叙利亚、土耳其和伊拉克北部的库尔德地区的走私贩。“我们不会杀害无辜的人和放下武器的士兵。我们就像ISIS的新大脑。”
Already, there have been reports that the two sides have skirmished inside Mosul, but the Naqshbandias denied that. Mr. Knights said: “For the moment they need each other. But they are going to fight each other eventually.”
已经有报告称，双方在摩苏尔城内发生了小规模冲突，但JRTN对这种说法表示否认。奈茨说：“他们目前彼此需要，但他们最终还是会打起来。”