BAGHDAD — Iraq’s leaders selected Fouad Massoum, a longtime Kurdish politician and former guerrilla fighter who took up arms against Saddam Hussein’s regime, on Thursday as the country’s new president, an important step in forming a new government that the international community and Iraq’s religious authorities have called for and described as crucial to confronting a growing Sunni insurgency.
巴格达——伊拉克领导者于周四选举福阿德·马苏姆(Fouad Massoum)为国家的新总统，马苏姆是位老牌库尔德政客，也曾是拿起武器反抗萨达姆·侯赛因政权的游击队员，任命新总统是组建新政府的一个重要步骤，国际社会和伊拉克的宗教当权者都曾呼吁尽快确定总统人选，并将其描述为对抵抗越来越强大的逊尼派武装判乱至关重要。
Mr. Massoum, 76, replaces Jalal Talabani, who has been president since 2005 and was seen as a rare unifying figure among Iraq’s many factions but has been largely absent from the political scene since suffering a stroke in late 2012. The Kurds settled on Mr. Massoum after a late-night meeting Wednesday in Baghdad. After two rounds of voting in Parliament on Thursday, Mr. Massoum received 211 votes out of 269 cast and was immediately sworn in.
现年76岁的马苏姆接替了塔拉巴尼，塔拉巴尼自2005年来一直担任总统，并被看作是能团结伊拉克众多派别的罕见人物，但自从2012年底患中风后，他基本上已不在政治场合出现。库尔德人经过在巴格达周三夜间的一次会议，选择了马苏姆。国会在周四进行了两轮投票，在投出的269张选票中，马苏姆获得了211票，并立即宣誓就职。
The next political step, the selection of a new prime minister, will be more difficult and fraught, especially as violent attacks are killing civilians on a daily basis and Sunni militants led by the extremist Islamic State in Iraq and Syria are consolidating their control of large parts of the north and west of Iraq. That process will determine the future of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, who has been in power since 2006 but who has become an increasingly polarizing figure as the insurgency has grown, setting off new rounds of sectarian violence.
接下来的政治步骤是新总理的选择，这将更加困难且令人担忧，尤其是在暴力袭击每天都导致平民死亡、由极端的伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）领导的逊尼派武装分子正在加强其对伊拉克北部和西部大片地区控制的时候。这个选择过程将决定现任总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)的未来，马利基自2006年以来一直在台上，随着反叛力量不断壮大，他已成为让矛盾日益激化的人物，引发了新一轮的宗教派系暴力。
Mr. Maliki has insisted that he will seek a third term as prime minister, but it appears increasingly unlikely that his efforts to remain in power will succeed. American officials, who believe Mr. Maliki has become too divisive to lead Iraq out of its current crisis, have been working behind the scenes to push Iraq’s leaders to select someone else.
马利基曾坚决表示，他将寻求第三个总理任期，但是，他想继续掌权的努力看来越来越不可能会成功。美国官员认为马利基已经成为一个引起过多分歧的人物，不能带领伊拉克摆脱目前的危机，这些官员一直在幕后试图推动伊拉克领导人选择其他人。
Other powerful factions appear arrayed against Mr. Maliki, as well. Iran, which exerts enormous influence here, has signaled that it would like to see new leadership, as have Iraq’s powerful Shiite religious leaders and other political factions, Sunnis and Kurds but also many among the Shiite majority.
其他强大派系看来也在形成反对马利基的战线。对伊拉克有巨大影响力的伊朗已经暗示，希望看到一位新领导人，持同样看法的不但包括伊拉克强大的什叶派宗教领袖，以及其他政治派别、逊尼派和库尔德人，也包括占人口多数的什叶派中的许多人。
Before the vote for president, Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general of the United Nations, appeared at a news conference in Baghdad and said, “Iraq is facing an existential threat but it can be overcome through the formation of a thoroughly inclusive government — a government that can address the concerns of all communities, including security, political, social and economic matters.”
在对总统进行投票之前，联合国秘书长潘基文出现在巴格达的一个记者会上，他说：“伊拉克​​正面临着生存的威胁，但能够渡过这一关，就是要通过组建一个具有广泛包容性的政府，一个能够设法解决所有社会群体的担忧的政府，包括安全、政治、社会和经济方面的。”
For one day at least, even as violence continued to engulf the country, Iraqi leaders celebrated their selection of a new president.
尽管暴力在继续吞噬这个国家，但至少在这一天，伊拉克领导人得以颂扬他们挑选出来的新总统。
“Everyone likes him,” Abbas al-Bayati, a Shiite lawmaker, said of Mr. Massoum. “He is a moderate man and was agreed to by everyone.” He added that Mr. Massoum is “a man who refuses divisions, and this is what we look for in the Iraqi president.”
“每个人都喜欢他，”什叶派国会议员阿巴斯·巴亚提( Abbas al-Bayati)在提到马苏姆时说。“他是一个温和的人，所有的个人都认同他。”他补充说，马苏姆是“一个拒绝分裂的人，而这正是我们想在伊拉克总统身上看到的东西。”
Mr. Massoum’s rise to the presidency comes a week after Parliament elected Salim al-Jubouri, a moderate Sunni Islamist, to the position of speaker, which was the first step in forming a new government after national elections in April. The selection of Mr. Massoum, who holds a doctorate in Islamic philosophy and helped draft Iraq’s new Constitution after the American-led invasion, was seen as another important step in establishing a new, inclusive government.
在马苏姆荣升总统的一周前，议会选举了萨利姆·朱布里(Salim al-Jubouri)为议长，朱布里是逊尼派的温和伊斯兰教徒，选举议长是四月份的全国大选后组建新政府的第一步。马苏姆拥有伊斯兰哲学博士学位，并在美国领导的入侵推翻了萨达姆政权后，帮助起草了伊拉克的新宪法，他的当选被看作是为建立一个包容性的新政府迈出的重要的又一步。
“This is for sure a great achievement,” said Hashim al-Hashimi, a political analyst. “Now the road is paved to nominate the prime minister and form the government.”
政治分析人士哈希姆·哈希米(Hashim al-Hashimi)说，“这肯定是一个巨大的成就。现在已经给提名总理和组建政府铺平了道路。”
He said Mr. Massoum and the new speaker were “well-known and acceptable by everyone inside the political process and outside.”
他说，马苏姆和新议长“都很有名，而且被政治进程内部和外部的所有人认可。”
Under an informal political bargain forged after the toppling of Saddam Hussein in 2003, the Iraqi presidency is held by a Kurd, the speaker of Parliament is a Sunni Arab and the position of prime minister, the most powerful post, goes to a Shiite.
2003年萨达姆倒台后，伊拉克人达成一项非正式的政治交易：总统由库尔德人担任，议会议长是逊尼派阿拉伯人，最强大的位置总理留给了什叶派。
As if to emphasize the challenges the country faces, hours before Parliament voted on the presidency on Thursday, an attack on a convoy of prisoners near Baghdad left more than 60 people dead.
好像是为了强调该国面临的挑战，​​就在议会周四投票选举总统的几小时前，在巴格达附近发生对运载囚犯车队的袭击，造成60多人死亡。
At dawn on Thursday, a convoy of prisoners left a prison on a military base in Taji, north of the capital, on its way to a more secure prison in Baghdad when it was struck by several explosions, according to a security official. The explosions were followed by a gunfight between militants and the men guarding the convoy, the official said. The official added that at least 54 prisoners were killed in the exchange, as well as seven Iraqi soldiers. Another official, though, who works in the Taji prison, said the inmates were executed after they left the facility.
周四黎明时分，一个运载囚犯的车队离开了位于首都北部塔吉市一个军事基地的监狱，前往巴格达的一个更安全的监狱，车队在途中遭爆炸袭击，据一名安全官员说。武装分子和守卫车队的人在爆炸后发生了枪战，该官员表示。这位官员补充说，至少有54名囚犯在枪战中被打死，另有7名伊拉克士兵被打死。不过，另一位在塔吉监狱工作的官员说，犯人是在离开监狱后被处决的。
The attack was similar to two cases last month, which took place in murky circumstances but are regarded as some of the worst recent sectarian abuses carried out by the Shiite-dominated government or affiliated militias, in which dozens of Sunni prisoners held on terrorism charges were killed.
这次袭击与上个月发生的两个事件类似，那两个事件发生的情况很不明朗，但被认为是什叶派占主导地位的政府或下属民兵近期制造的最严重的教派暴行，事件中，有几十名因恐怖主义指控被关押的逊尼派囚犯被杀。