WASHINGTON — The spreading expectation that President Obama will name Lawrence H. Summers to lead the Federal Reserve Board appears to be working against the central bank’s efforts to stimulate the economy.
华盛顿——外界普遍预计，奥巴马总统将提名劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)出任美国联邦储备委员会(Federal Reserve Board)的下一任主席，但这样做似乎会妨害作为美国中央银行的美联储刺激经济的努力。
The jitters even have some analysts betting that a Summers nomination could lead to slower economic growth, less job creation and higher interest rates than if the president named Janet L. Yellen, the Fed’s vice chairwoman.
由此引发的紧张情绪甚至令某些分析师断言，假如获总统提名的是萨默斯而非美联储副主席珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)，会让经济增长放缓、就业机会减少、利率提高。
Businesses raising money and people buying homes and cars all have faced higher interest rates in recent months as the Fed’s campaign to suppress borrowing costs has faltered. The rise in rates reflects optimism that the economy is gaining strength, and an expectation that the Fed will begin to pull back later this year. But a wide range of financial analysts also see evidence of a Summers effect.
由于美联储在抑制借贷成本的行动中有所迟疑，过去数月间，所有举债的企业和购买房产、汽车的个人都承受了更高的利率。利率上升反映出了市场对经济情况改善的乐观情绪，也反映出市场预期美联储将在今年晚些时候开始缩减刺激举措的规模。但大批金融分析人士从中也看到了“萨默斯效应”的蛛丝马迹。
Many investors expected that Ms. Yellen would be nominated to replace Ben S. Bernanke as head of the central bank, a choice that would have sent a clear message of continuity. Instead, investors are now trying to anticipate how Mr. Summers might change the Fed.
许多投资者原本预计，将获提名取代本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)成为央行领导者的会是耶伦，这样的选择可以传递出保持政策连续性的清晰信号。然而，投资者们如今却在努力预测，萨默斯将会如何改变美联储。
The unease is the product of a little information and a lot of speculation. Mr. Summers, a Harvard University economist who served for two years as Mr. Obama’s primary economic adviser, has said little about monetary policy in recent years. Investors are left parsing a handful of comments in which he has expressed some doubts on the benefits and concern about the consequences of the Fed’s policies.
之所以产生这种不安，是因为信息极少而揣测又很多。萨默斯是哈佛大学的经济学家，还曾担任过两年奥巴马的首席经济顾问，但近年来很少谈及货币政策。他曾在只言片语间，对美联储政策的收益和后果表示过某种怀疑和担忧，投资者们只好揣摩其中的深意。
“People don’t know what Larry might do,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, the giant bond fund manager. “There’s a lack of a lot of information on Larry’s views. We don’t have enough information to make an assessment, just some second- and thirdhand accounts.”
“人们不知道拉里(Larry)会做些什么，”大型债券基金管理企业太平洋投资管理公司(Pimco)首席执行官穆罕默德·埃里安(Mohamed El-Erian)说。“目前缺乏与拉里的观点有关的信息。我们没有足够的信息来作出评估，只有一些二手、三手的说法。”
Some doubts always attend the arrival of a new Fed chairman, but the consequences are particularly freighted at the moment because the Fed’s effectiveness increasingly depends on its ability to reduce uncertainty among investors. The sense of uncertainty is heightened by the fact that as many as five of the Fed’s seven governors may be replaced in the next year.
新任美联储主席的到来总会伴随某些疑虑，但其影响此时体现得尤为明显，因为美联储的政策效力，越来越取决于其为投资者减少不确定性的能力。美联储的7位委员中，将在明年被换掉的可能多达5位，这一事实更是增强了不确定感。
Mr. Obama said last month that he would not announce his choice for the Fed’s top spot until the fall, and that he was considering at least three candidates: Mr. Summers, Ms. Yellen and the former Fed vice chairman Donald L. Kohn. But the president’s top economic advisers uniformly support the selection of Mr. Summers. They regard him as a creative thinker and an experienced crisis manager, qualities they value in particular because they expect the Fed may confront difficult choices as it begins to retreat from its six-year-old stimulus campaign.
奥巴马上个月说，他会在秋天公布选谁来坐美联储的头把交椅，而考虑中的人选至少有三个：萨默斯、耶伦以及美联储前副主席唐纳德·L·科恩(Donald L. Kohn)。但总统的高级经济顾问们一致支持选择萨默斯。他们认为萨默斯能创造性思考，是一个经验丰富的危机管理者，这是他们尤其看重的素质，因为按照他们的预期，当美联储开始从它长达6年的经济刺激行动中抽身时，可能会面临艰难的的选择。
They also insist that Mr. Summers supports the Fed’s efforts to revive the economy and would continue those efforts.
他们还坚持认为，萨默斯支持美联储为振兴经济所实施的举措，并且会把这些举措继续下去。
But Mr. Summers has criticized the Fed’s purchases of Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities, warning that bond-buying on such a scale could distort financial markets. He said it was “less efficacious for the real economy than most people suppose.” As a result, many investors suspect he would seek to end those purchases more quickly than Ms. Yellen.
不过，萨默斯曾经对美联储买进国债和抵押贷款担保证券的行为提出过批评。他警告称：如此大规模地买进债券会对金融市场造成扭曲。他说这种办法“对实体经济而言并不像大多数人所以为的那样灵验”。许多投资者因此猜测，与耶伦相比，他会更迅速地寻求终结此类债券购买行为。
Julia Coronado, chief North America economist at BNP Paribas, said last week that the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note already had started to rise as investors price in a Summers nomination. She added that the yield could eventually rise half a percentage point more than if the president nominated Ms. Yellen instead. Ms. Coronado estimated that this Summers effect would reduce domestic economic growth by 0.5 to 0.75 percentage point over the next two years, which could reduce job creation by 350,000 to 500,000 jobs.
法国巴黎银行(BNP Paribas)北美首席经济师朱莉娅·科罗纳多(Julia Coronado)上周表示，由于投资者们预计萨默斯将获提名，10年期基准国债的收益率已经开始上扬。她补充说，如果萨默斯最终获得总统的提名，与耶伦获提名的情况相比，这一收益率可能会高出0.5个百分点。克罗纳多估计，未来两年，萨默斯效应将令美国经济增长率下降0.5至0.75个百分点，这会减少35万至50万个就业岗位。
A Summers nomination, she wrote, “would come at a cost of higher market volatility and interest rates, and a less buoyant economic recovery.”
如果被提名的是萨默斯，她写道，“美国要付出的代价是较高的市场波动性和较高的利率，以及不那么强劲的经济复苏。”
Leadership changes at the Fed tend to unsettle financial markets more than changes in leadership at other major central banks, according to a 2007 study. That is partly because the Fed is the closest thing to a global central bank. But it also reflects the outsize role of the Fed chairman, who is less constrained than other central bankers in making policy.
2007年的一项研究显示，相对于其他国家央行领导层的变动而言，美联储领导者的变动往往会对金融市场造成更大的冲击。这在一定程度上是因为，美联储是地位最接近全球央行的一个机构；但这同时也反映出美联储主席的职责过于重大，在政策制定过程中，美联储主席受到的限制要少于其他国家的央行负责人。