WASHINGTON — Lawrence H. Summers, President Barack Obama's preferred candidate to lead the Federal Reserve, withdrew from consideration Sunday after seeing a premonition of his own fate in the administration's inability to rally Democrats to support the use of force in Syria.
华盛顿——眼看奥巴马政府无力让民主党人团结一致支持对叙利亚动武，奥巴马青睐的美联储(Federal Reserve)主席人选劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H.Summers)觉得自己前途不妙，于周日退出了这一职位的角逐。
Summers, formerly Obama's chief economic adviser, concluded that the administration was also unlikely to overcome opposition to his own candidacy from many of the same Democrats, who view Summers as an opponent of stronger financial regulation, according to supporters who insisted on anonymity to describe confidential conversations with him.
坚持要求匿名讨论同萨默斯之间的秘密谈话的一些支持者称，曾任奥巴马首席经济顾问的萨默斯断定，奥巴马政府可能也无力克服许多民主党人对他参选的反对意见。这些民主党人和反对动武的是同一批人，他们认为萨默斯会反对出台更严厉的金融管制规定。
Summers' decision, which he shared with the president in a phone call Sunday followed by a letter of explanation, was described as reluctantly made and reluctantly accepted. Summers wanted the job and Obama wanted to pick him. But the public opposition of three Democrats on the Senate banking committee, the first step in the confirmation process, surprised the White House and forced a reckoning that this was a battle the administration could not afford to fight.
周日，萨默斯通过电话把这个决定告诉了奥巴马，随后又写信进行了解释。据称，萨默斯的这一决定并非情愿，奥巴马的接受也出于勉强。萨默斯希望得到这一职位，奥巴马也希望选他出任这一职位。然而，参议院银行委员会三名民主党成员的公开反对让白宫大吃一惊，迫使奥巴马政府认为，自己无力在这个问题上进行斗争。得到参议院银行委员会的同意是确认过程的第一步。
“Clearly Obama couldn't bring his own most enthusiastic supporters to back him on an issue of national security,” one of those supporters said. “How was he going to corral them for Larry?”
“显然，在一个国家安全问题上，奥巴马无力赢得自己最狂热支持者的支持，”前述支持者之一说，“既然如此，他如何能阻止他们反对拉里（Larry，Lawrence 的昵称）呢？”
The embarrassing setback reveals an administration increasingly hamstrung by the opposition of liberal Democrats, and extends a soap operalike selection process just when it had seemed that an end might be in sight.
这一令人尴尬的挫折表明奥巴马政府越来越受制于自由派民主党人的反对，并且延长了一个类似于肥皂剧的挑选过程。挫折来临之时，这一过程似乎就要结束。
Obama could turn instead to the candidate preferred by many members of his own party, the Fed's current vice chairwoman, Janet Yellen, but his economic advisers have never viewed her candidacy with enthusiasm, raising the possibility that the White House will broaden the search process. The president also has interviewed Donald L. Kohn, Yellen's predecessor as vice chairman.
奥巴马可能会转而支持他所在政党的许多成员都青睐的候选人，即美联储现任副主席珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)，但他的经济顾问从未积极考虑耶伦的候选资格，这可能会迫使白宫拓宽挑选范围。总统还与耶伦副主席一职的前任唐纳德·L·科恩(Donald L. Kohn)进行了面谈。
The Fed's current chairman, Ben Bernanke, plans to step down at the end of January, leaving ample time for the Senate to confirm a successor, but the unusually public and contentious nature of the selection process has unsettled financial markets, creating a degree of artificial urgency.
美联储现任主席本·伯南克(Ben Bernanke)计划明年1月底卸任，为参议院确认继任者留下了充足的时间，但选拔程序异乎寻常的公开性和争议性已经引发了金融市场的动荡，造成了一定程度的人为紧迫感。
In a statement released by the White House on Sunday afternoon, Obama said he had accepted the decision by his friend, while he praised him for helping to rescue the country from economic disaster early in the president's term.
在白宫周日下午发表的一份声明中，奥巴马表示他已经接受了这位朋友的决定，同时称赞了萨默斯在他担任总统初期为挽救国家免遭经济灾难提供的帮助。
“Larry was a critical member of my team as we faced down the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, and it was in no small part because of his expertise, wisdom and leadership that we wrestled the economy back to growth and made the kind of progress we are seeing today,” Obama said in the statement.
“在应对自大萧条(Great Depression)以来最严重的经济危机时，拉里是我团队中的关键成员。在努力让经济恢复增长，实现我们现在看到的这种进步的过程中，他的专业知识、智慧和领导能力发挥了不小的作用，”奥巴马在声明中说。
He added: “I will always be grateful to Larry for his tireless work and service on behalf of his country, and I look forward to continuing to seek his guidance and counsel in the future.”
他还说：“我始终感激拉里为祖国贡献的不懈努力和服务，我期待将来能继续得到他的指导和意见。”
For Obama, the withdrawal ends an embarrassing summer that began when the president declared in a televised interview this spring that Bernanke would depart, opening the replacement process to public scrutiny before a nominee was even named.
对奥巴马而言，萨默斯的退出结束了一个令人尴尬的夏天。今年春天，奥巴马在一次电视访谈中宣布伯南克将卸任，在尚未提名候选人之时便把职位更替程序置于公众目光之下，这个令人尴尬的夏季由此拉开序幕。
The White House had made some efforts to build support for Summers on Capitol Hill. Earlier this year, Obama had asked Rob Nabors, then his chief congressional liaison, to work with Summers, and Summers himself sought meetings with a number of senators.
为了让萨默斯在国会山(Capitol Hill)获得支持，白宫曾采取一些行动。今年早些时候，奥巴马让他当时的国会首席联络人罗勃·纳伯斯(Rob Nabors)与萨默斯合作，萨默斯自己也曾寻求同许多参议员会面。
The White House also tried to quiet critics of Summers, but with little success. In a meeting with the House Democratic Caucus in July, Obama offered a strong defense of Summers' contributions to the economic health of the country, contending he was being unfairly maligned by critics.
白宫还试图让萨默斯的批评者闭嘴，但却收效甚微。7月份，同众议院民主党党团(House Democratic Caucus)举行会谈时，奥巴马极力为萨默斯辩护，提到了他为美国经济健康发展所作的贡献，并称萨默斯正在遭受批评者不公正的诽谤。
But some congressional aides said the White House had made little effort in recent weeks to solicit support for Summers — and that they seemed unaware of the depth of opposition.
但一些国会助手表示，最近几周，白宫几乎没采取什么行动来为萨默斯争取支持，此外，他们似乎不知道反对的势头有多强。
Strikingly, the White House had not contacted some Democrats on the Senate Banking Committee, the first step in the confirmation process. Sen. Jon Tester, D-Mont., did not hear from the White House until Friday. Asked whether he would be willing to vote for Summers, Tester simply said that he would not, according to his aides.
令人诧异的是，白宫没有联络参议院银行委员会(Senate Banking Committee)的某些民主党议员，该委员会是确认程序的第一道关卡。直到上周五，白宫才跟蒙大拿州参议员乔恩·泰斯特(Jon Tester)进行了接触。据泰斯特的助理透露，当被问到是否愿意投票支持萨默斯时，泰斯特简单地回答，他不愿意。
Tester's opposition was a critical blow. He is not a member of the group of liberal senators that had opposed Summers from the outset. Instead, his opposition showed that other constituencies, including rural lawmakers who support community banks, might also rally against Summers.
泰斯特的反对是一个严重的打击，因为他并不是从一开始就反对萨默斯的自由派参议员中的一员。他的反对表明，包括支持社区银行的乡村议员在内的其他一些选民团体，可能也会团结起来反对萨默斯。
It became clear to the administration that it would need far more Republican support than it had anticipated, just to get Summers' nomination out of committee and presented to the full Senate. That meant cutting deals and making promises to Republican senators that the White House was unwilling to make.
对政府来说，事情变得相当明显，仅仅是为了让萨默斯的提名通过银行委员会，以便提交给整个参议院表决，政府就需要获得比其预期大得多的共和党支持。这意味着白宫得和共和党参议员勉为其难地讨价还价，并做出一些情非得已的承诺。
In his letter to the president, Summers said that he had “reluctantly concluded that any possible confirmation process for me would be acrimonious and would not serve the interests of the Federal Reserve, the administration or, ultimately, the interests of the nation's ongoing economic recovery.”
在给总统的信中，萨默斯说，他已经“无奈地得出结论，与我有关的任何确认进程都会进行得相当激烈，不符合美联储的利益，不符合美国政府的利益，最终也不符合美国经济持续复苏的利益。”
Summers' withdrawal quickly reinvigorated supporters of Yellen. A key architect of the Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy, she is seen by many Democrats as sharing their commitment to stricter regulation of the financial system. She is also the preferred candidate of many economists who note the depth of her experience both as an academic economist and as a policymaker since the mid-1990s. She would also be the first woman to lead a major central bank.
萨默斯的退出，迅速让耶伦的支持者再度受到鼓舞。耶伦是美联储经济刺激措施的核心设计师，许多民主党人都认为，耶伦和他们一样，信奉更严格的金融系统监管措施。她还是许多经济学家青睐的候选人，这些经济学家指出，她既具有一位经济学家在学术界的深厚阅历，自20世纪90年代中期以来又具备了一名决策者的丰富经验。如果当选，她还会成为领导主要中央银行的首名女性。
An administration official said that Yellen clearly remained a candidate, but she has few strong supporters among the president's advisers. Some argue that the Fed needs an outsider to shake up its thinking as it begins to retreat from its stimulus efforts. Yellen also has never worked closely with Obama, who often favors candidates he has had a chance to measure personally.
一名政府官员说，耶伦显然还有希望，不过，总统的顾问当中没有几个是她的强力支持者。一些人辩称，随着美联储开始撤销刺激措施，该机构需要一名外来者来重组自己的思维。此外，耶伦从未和奥巴马有过紧密合作，而后者往往偏爱他曾有机会进行私下评估的候选人。
The president also has interviewed Kohn, Yellen's predecessor as vice chairman, who has stronger relationships with some of the president's advisers because of his work during the financial crisis. But he lacks the academic credentials of Yellen, and his selection would offer Obama less opportunity to shape the Fed past the end of his own term.
总统还和耶伦的前任、美联储前副主席科恩会了面，由于金融危机期间的工作，他和总统的一些顾问关系更为紧密。不过，他缺少耶伦的学术资历，如果选择他，将减小奥巴马在自己到任之后继续塑造美联储的机会。
The opposition to a Summers nomination was about more than his combative personality and the lingering concerns over his 2005 comments, as president of Harvard, that suggesting that the dearth of female scientists stems partly from inherent differences between the genders. For example, many Democrats who favor stricter regulations of the nation's financial institutions have expressed concerns about Summers' role in the Clinton administration's opposition to regulating the derivatives market, a factor that many economists believe helped precipitate the 2008 market collapse. As the Treasury secretary for Bill Clinton, Summers supported less oversight of derivatives, something Clinton has since said was bad advice.
反对派之所以拒绝萨默斯的提名，针对的不只是他好斗的个性，也不只是对他于2005年发表的评论挥之不去的担忧，当时，担任哈佛大学(Harvard)校长的萨默斯说，女性科学家稀缺的部分原因是男女固有的性别差异。举例来说，许多民主党人都赞成对美国的金融机构实施更严格的监管，由此就对萨默斯在克林顿政府时期反对监管衍生品市场的举动表示了担忧，许多经济学家认为，衍生品是促使金融市场于2008年陷入崩溃的原因之一。作为比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)的财政部长，萨默斯支持对金融衍生品采取较少的监控，克林顿此后曾说，这是一个糟糕的建议。
Others in the Senate have taken exception to his views on large versus small banks. Summers has said he believes it would be harmful to the economy to break up the nation's largest financial institutions, which Democratic senators like Sherrod Brown of Ohio — another avowed no vote on the banking committee — support. Democrats from rural, less-populous states were also concerned about what they perceive as Summers' weak support for community banking institutions, an issue Tester's staff raised in its statement. Sen. Jeff Merkley, D-Ore., was also a no.
参议院里的其他一些人则对他关于大银行和小银行的看法表示反对。萨默斯曾说，他认为，分拆美国最大的金融机构会伤害美国的经济，与此同时，一些民主党参议员却支持分拆大机构，比如公开宣布不会投票支持萨默斯的参议院银行委员会委员、俄亥俄州民主党参议员谢罗德·布朗(Sherrod Brown)。来自人口较少的农村州的民主党人也很担忧，他们认为萨默斯对社区银行机构的支持力度不够，泰斯特的手下就在声明中提出了这个问题。俄勒冈州民主党参议员杰夫·默克利(Jeff Merkley)也公开宣布，不会投票支持萨默斯。
This is the second time in the past year that a candidate for one of the top positions in the Obama administration has withdrawn after resistance in the Senate seemed insurmountable. Susan E. Rice, who was a contender to become secretary of state, took herself out of the running after Republicans threatened to filibuster her nomination.
这是过去一年里，在参议院的阻力似乎不可克服的情况下，角逐奥巴马政府最高领导层位置之一的候选人第二次退出竞争。此前，共和党曾威胁要以拖延战术阻挠对美国国务卿角逐者苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)的提名，赖斯随即退出了竞争。
But this time, it was members of the president's own party who were going to make any confirmation process extremely difficult.
然而这一次，让提名确认过程的任何一步都变得极端困难的，是总统自身所在党派的成员。