WASHINGTON — Janet L. Yellen told friends in recent weeks that she did not expect to be nominated as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve. Although she had been the Fed’s vice chairman since 2010 and would make history as the first woman to hold the job, President Obama’s aides made clear throughout the summer that he wanted Lawrence H. Summers, his former chief economic adviser.
华盛顿——珍妮特·L·耶伦(Janet L. Yellen)近几周对朋友说，她没想过被提名为美联储(Federal Reserve)下一任主席。她自2010年开始担任联储副主席，如果能任主席，将作为第一位女性主席被载入史册，但这个夏天，奥巴马总统的助手已经明确表示，他的选择是其前首席经济顾问，劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H.Summers)。
Now, awkwardly, it appears that the president may have to circle back to Ms. Yellen after Mr. Summers withdrew from consideration on Sunday, bowing to the determined opposition of at least five Senate Democrats. On Monday, Ms. Yellen became the front-runner by elimination, officials close to the White House said.
然而令人尴尬的是，在至少五位民主党参议员的强烈反对下，萨默斯于周日退出了该职位的角逐，现在总统可能要回过头来考虑耶伦。周一，接近白宫的官员说，经过一轮筛除，耶伦现在处于领先位置。
Supporters of Mr. Summers, including many of the president’s closest advisers, had raised some concerns about Ms. Yellen in recent months. Perhaps most potently, they said that institutions benefited from fresh leadership and argued that Ms. Yellen’s crucial role in creating the Fed’s current policies could inhibit her ability to make necessary changes.
过去几个月里，包括多位总统亲信顾问在内的萨默斯支持者表达了对耶伦的疑虑。其中最有说服力的观点也许是，他们认为一个来自外界的新领导者会对这个机构有所帮助，而耶伦在美联储当前的决策中发挥了关键作用，这会妨碍她做出必要的改变。
Some presidential advisers also argued that Mr. Summers brought crisis management experience and a working knowledge of financial markets that Ms. Yellen lacks — although so did Ben S. Bernanke when President George W. Bush selected him as chairman.
一些总统顾问还指出，萨默斯能带来危机管理的经验，还有从金融市场得来的一些必要知识，这些是耶伦缺乏的——尽管本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)在被乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统定为主席人选时也是这样的情况。
More recently, there have been tensions between Ms. Yellen and Daniel Tarullo, a Fed governor with close ties to the president’s economic team who has taken a leading role on issues of regulatory policy. Ms. Yellen also has a history of strained relationships with some of the president’s economic advisers, notably Gene B. Sperling, head of the National Economic Council, with whom she clashed in the 1990s.
近来耶伦和丹尼尔·塔鲁洛(Daniel Tarullo)的关系紧张，这位美联储委员和总统的经济团队联系密切，在监管政策问题上发挥主导作用。耶伦还和总统的几位经济顾问有过紧张关系，尤其是在上世纪90年代，她曾和国家经济委员会(National Economic Council)主任吉恩·B·斯珀林(Gene B. Sperling)发生冲突。
Nonetheless, the president’s advisers insisted throughout the summer that Mr. Obama was not averse to Ms. Yellen but simply more comfortable with Mr. Summers, a former Treasury secretary to President Bill Clinton who was Mr. Obama’s chief White House economic adviser through the height of the financial crisis and recession in 2009 and 2010. In those years he formed a bond with Mr. Obama and others in the White House despite a tendency toward arrogance.
尽管如此，总统的顾问们在这个夏天一直坚称奥巴马对耶伦没有意见，只不过对萨默斯更放心而已，这位比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)总统的财政部长在2009年和2010年金融危机和衰退形势最严峻的时期担任了奥巴马的首席白宫经济顾问。尽管有种傲慢的倾向，他在那段日子里还是跟奥巴马以及白宫的其他人建立了一种紧密的关系。
Stock markets soared on Monday on the withdrawal of Mr. Summers. Many investors regarded him as less committed to the Fed’s monetary stimulus campaign than Ms. Yellen. In trading, the Dow was up 118 points and interest rates down in a show of increased confidence that the Fed will press ahead with its efforts to stimulate the economy through continued bond purchases.
股市在得到萨默斯退出的消息后大涨。许多投资者认为他对联储的货币刺激举措不像耶伦那么热衷。道琼斯指数盘中上涨118点，利率下降，表明市场越来越认为，联储会继续通过购买债券来刺激经济。
Ms. Yellen’s supporters waited with a mixture of elation and apprehension for the president’s next step. “Janet Yellen, I hope, will make a terrific Federal Reserve chair,” Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat who was one of those warning the White House against a Summers nomination, said on MSNBC. “The president will make his decision, but I hope that happens.”
在观望总统下一步决定之际，耶伦支持者的心情喜忧参半。“我希望珍妮特·耶伦能成为一个了不起的联储主席，”马萨诸塞州民主党参议员伊丽莎白·沃伦(Elizabeth Warren)在MSNBC上说，她是警告白宫不要提名萨默斯的人之一。“总统会做出决定，但我希望这能成为现实。”
Administration officials and supporters acknowledged that the president would enrage his party’s base if he were now to reject Ms. Yellen and forfeit the chance to name the first woman to the most influential economic job in the world. On the other hand, with no obvious alternatives, the choice of Ms. Yellen — which months ago might have been celebrated as historic — is likely to be seen as Mr. Obama’s reluctant capitulation to his party’s left wing.
政府官员和支持者明白，如果总统现在否决耶伦，放弃把这个全世界最具影响力的经济职位交给女性的机会，会在本党大本营激起众怒。另一方面，在看不到其他明确人选的情况下，选择耶伦——这一举动在几个月前也许会被人当作历史事件来赞颂——可能会被人看作是奥巴马被迫向党内左翼投降。
In the midst of the speculation that Mr. Obama might broaden his search, former Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner got word to the White House early on Monday that he still was not interested in the Fed nomination that Mr. Obama had long made clear was his for the taking. Mr. Geithner’s stance is based on personal considerations, but as someone who was closely associated with Mr. Summers in the Clinton and Obama administrations, he would probably not be any more popular with the liberal groups emboldened by Mr. Summers’s exit.
在人们普遍揣测，奥巴马或许会扩大搜寻的范围时，前财政部长蒂莫西·F·盖特纳(Timothy F. Geithner)周一早上向白宫表示，他仍然对美联储主席的提名没有兴趣，尽管奥巴马很早以前就曾明确表示，只要他有这个想法就会提名他。盖特纳的这种立场是基于个人考虑做出的。不过他在克林顿和奥巴马政府供职期间，一直与萨默斯过从甚密，因此，对于为萨默斯的退出所鼓舞的自由派而言，盖特纳可能不会比萨默斯更受欢迎。
Mr. Geithner, who was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York before he joined the administration in 2009, said in January as he left the Treasury that there was “not a chance” he would accept a nomination to be Fed chairman. “I have great respect for the institution, but that will be someone else’s privilege,” he said then.
在2009年加入奥巴马政府之前，盖特纳曾任纽约联邦储备银行行长(Federal Reserve Bank of New York)。今年1月，盖特纳卸任财政部长职务时表示，他“没有可能”接受美联储主席提名。他当时说：“我极为尊重该机构，但领导这个机构的殊荣属于别人。”
Democrats on Capitol Hill said Ms. Yellen would most likely get confirmed by the Senate. Mr. Summers’s supporters had raised concerns about her, mostly along the lines of institutions benefiting from new leadership.
民主党国会议员表示，耶伦最有可能通过参议院的确认。萨默斯的支持者提出了对她的顾虑，立场大都是该机构会受益于一位新领导。
Described by one former colleague as “a small lady with a large I.Q.,” Ms. Yellen forged an academic career at the University of California, Berkeley as a member of the economics counterculture that attacked the dogma of efficient markets. She has long argued that markets benefit from regulation to prevent abuses and limit disruptions of economic growth.
一位前同事形容耶伦是“有高智商的小女子”。在加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)，她在学术领域颇有建树，是攻击有效市场教条的经济学反主流派中的一员。她长期以来都认为，监管可以避免舞弊并限制对经济增长的干扰，进而让市场受益。
She also played a leading role in shaping what has become the conventional wisdom that central banks, for the sake of job growth, should seek to moderate rather than eliminate inflation.
现在的常规思路是，中央银行为了促进就业，应当追求适度的通胀，而不是消除通胀。在这种观念的形成过程中，耶伦也扮演了主导角色。
Mr. Clinton nominated her to a seat on the Fed’s board of governors in 1994 and then made her head of his Council of Economic Advisers in 1997. She then returned to Berkeley and in 2004 became president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, where she remained during the worst of the crisis before coming back to the Fed as vice chairman in 2010.
克林顿在1994年任命她担任美联储委员，之后又在1997年任命她为经济顾问委员会(Council of Economic Advisers)主任。之后耶伦回到伯克利，2004年担任旧金山联邦储备银行行长，在危机最严重的时期一直在那里供职，直到2010年升任美联储副主席。
Ms. Yellen, known as a careful thinker with a self-effacing manner, did not see the job as an audition for anything larger, according to friends. But her role in making the case for the Fed to take stronger action to reduce unemployment won her wide notice among liberal Democrats. In addition, women’s groups yearned for a woman to lead the Fed for the first time.
耶伦以思维缜密、举止谦逊著称，据她的朋友们透露，她并没有把这份工作当做多么重大的考验。不过，在主张让美联储采取更有力措施降低失业率的过程中，耶伦扮演的角色为她在自由派民主党人中赢得了极大的声望。此外，妇女团体也迫切希望女性能首次领导美联储。
As vice chairman, she has alternated with Mr. Bernanke in representing the Fed at international meetings and she is widely respected by her peers at other central banks. She has overseen Washington’s relationship with the 12 regional reserve banks, and has used the opportunity to cultivate the presidents of the regional Feds, five of whom vote each year on monetary policy.
作为副主席，她曾与伯南克轮流代表美联储参加国际会议，在其他国家的央行官员中广受尊重。她还负责保持美联储与12家地方联储银行之间的关系，并借此机会与地方联储银行的行长建立了良好关系。每年，有五名地方联储银行的行长拥有对货币政策的投票权。
Most important, she has led a committee devoted to improving the Fed’s communications with its primary audience, investors, and with the broader public, a goal she shared with Mr. Bernanke. Under Ms. Yellen, the committee built an internal consensus for changes, including Mr. Bernanke’s regular news conferences and the declaration that the Fed thinks 2 percent annual inflation is just right.
最重要的是，她还领导过一个委员会，该委员会旨在改善美联储与投资者（他们是最关注美联储的人群）和公众之间的沟通情况。在这一点上她与伯南克目标一致。在耶伦的领导下，该委员会促成了做出改变的内部共识，当然，助力还来自于伯南克的例行新闻发布会和他所公布的，美联储认为2%的年度通胀率刚刚好。