The drug maker GlaxoSmithKline reported Wednesday that its third-quarter earnings were badly battered by slumping product sales in China, a country where it faces a continuing bribery investigation.
制药商葛兰素史克(GlaxoSmithKline)周三报告，公司第三季度收益因中国市场销量暴跌而受重创。葛兰素史克目前仍在中国接受贿赂调查。
The producer reported that sales of its drugs and vaccines in China fell 61 percent for the period as competitors grabbed market share.
葛兰素史克报道，第三季度，随着竞争者抢占市场份额，其药物和疫苗在中国的销量同比下跌了61%。
Over all, the company reported total worldwide third-quarter sales of £6.51 billion, or $10.1 billion, a 1 percent rise from the same period a year ago.
公司称，其三季度的全球销售额为65.1亿英镑，亦即101亿美元（约合993亿元人民币），同比增长1%。
In comments to analysts, the drug giant’s chief executive, Andrew Witty, said that it was too early to say how long the Chinese investigation into the company’s sales practices would affect earnings.
这家制药巨头的首席执行官安伟杰(Andrew Witty)告诉分析人士，要判断中国对公司销售准则的调查将在多长时间内影响公司收益，目前还为时过早。
Chinese investigators have said that Glaxo participated in a widespread bribery and corruption scheme in which the company used travel agencies to funnel illegal payments to doctors and government officials to bolster drug sales. Mr. Witty has described the practices as unacceptable.
中国调查者称，葛兰素史克参与了一项广泛的贿赂和腐败活动，为增加药品销量而利用旅行社向医生和政府官员支付非法款项。安伟杰表示，这种做法是不可接受的。
“The investigation is ongoing and is complex and detailed,” he told analysts. “We very clearly recognize there is a profound need to earn the trust of the Chinese people again and we will take every action necessary to do so.”
“调查仍在继续，过程复杂而详细，”他告诉分析人士，“我们非常清楚地认识到，重新赢得中国民众的信任十分必要，我们将采取一切必要行动来实现这一目标。”
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, GlaxoSmithKline shares fell midday to $50.71 a share, down $1.05.
在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)的交易中，葛兰素史克的股票中午收报50.71美元，下跌了1.05美元。
For the first nine months, the company said its worldwide sales reached £19.6 billion, or $30.4 billion. The company reaffirmed that it expected its total 2013 earnings to increase by 3 to 4 percent a share on sales growth of 1 percent.
该公司表示，该公司前九个月的全球销售总额达到了196亿英镑（约合304亿美元）。该公司重申，他们预期，2013年的总销售额将增加1%，每股收益将增长3%至4%。
GlaxoSmithKline said its operating profit grew 11 percent during the period, driven largely by cost controls including reductions in research and development spending.
葛兰素史克表示，公司这段时间的营运利润增长了11%，主要原因是减少研发开支等成本控制举措。
Recently, the company has received four regulatory approvals for new drugs or vaccines, two of them in the United States, one in Europe and one in Japan.
最近，葛兰素史克获得了四项针对新药物或新疫苗的监管批准，两项在美国，一项在欧洲，一项在日本。
Last year, GlaxoSmithKline paid a $3 billion fine in the United States after it admitted that it had improperly promoted its antidepressants and failed to report safety data about the diabetes drug Avandia.
去年，葛兰素史克在美国缴纳了30亿美元的罚款，承认曾通过不当手段推广抗抑郁药，并隐瞒糖尿病药物文迪雅(Avandia)的安全数据。
The Chinese government is investigating possible bribes by other pharmaceutical companies. But GlaxoSmithKline’s problems there have been a setback to efforts by Mr. Witty to both build the company’s presence in China and burnish its image as an ethical leader in drug industry practices.
中国政府正在调查其他制药公司可能存在的贿赂行为。不过，葛兰素史克面临的问题对安伟杰来说是一个挫折，因为他一方面努力巩固公司在中国市场的地位，一方面也努力提升公司作为制药行业道德领袖的形象。