The British drug maker GlaxoSmithKline will no longer pay doctors to promote its products and will stop tying compensation of sales representatives to the number of prescriptions doctors write, its chief executive said Monday, effectively ending two common industry practices that critics have long assailed as troublesome conflicts of interest.
英国制药公司葛兰素史克（GlaxoSmithKline，简称GSK）的首席执行官于本周一表示，公司不会再付费让医生推销自己的产品，并将停止把销售代表的报酬和医生开药数量挂钩的做法。此举将有效地制止两种业内惯例，长期以来，批评者一直抨击这些惯例带来了不当利益冲突。
The announcement appears to be a first for a major drug company — although others may be considering similar moves — and comes at a particularly sensitive time for Glaxo. It is the subject of a bribery investigation in China, where authorities contend the company funneled illegal payments to doctors and government officials in an effort to boost drug sales.
这似乎是主要的制药公司首次发布此类声明——尽管其他公司可能也在考虑类似措施——出现在一个对GSK来说格外敏感的时期。在中国，GSK是一桩腐败案的调查对象，当局指该公司暗地向医生和政府官员支付非法酬金，以图提升药品销售。
Andrew Witty, Glaxo’s chief executive, said in a telephone interview Monday that its proposed changes were unrelated to the investigation in China, and are part of a yearslong effort “to try and make sure we stay in step with how the world is changing,” he said. “We keep asking ourselves, are there different ways, more effective ways of operating than perhaps the ways we as an industry have been operating over the last 30, 40 years?”
GSK首席执行官安伟杰(Andrew Witty)在周一的一次电话采访中表示，公司提出的改进措施与在中国的调查无关，而是某个一年期措施的组成部分，目的是“尝试确保我们跟上全球变化的潮流。我们不断地追问自己，有没有其他方法？跟也许可称为制药行业过去30到40年惯例的做法相比，有没有更行之有效的运营方法？”
For decades, pharmaceutical companies have paid doctors to speak on their behalf at conferences and other meetings of medical professionals, under the assumption that the doctors are most likely to value the advice of trusted peers.
几十年以来，制药公司一直在给医生付费，让他们在医学会议和其他医药界人士集会上为自己代言，因为他们认为，医生最有可能看重有威望的同行的意见。
But the practice has also been criticized by those who question whether it unduly influences the information doctors give each other and can lead them to prescribe drugs inappropriately to patients.
不过，这种行为一直也受到一些人的质疑，这些人怀疑此举不当地影响了医生之间的信息交流，可能会导致他们给患者开出不当的处方药物。
Under the plan, which Glaxo said would be completed worldwide by 2016, the company will no longer pay health care professionals to speak on its behalf about its products or the diseases they treat, “to audiences who can prescribe or influence prescribing,” it said in a statement. It will also stop providing financial support directly to doctors to attend medical conferences, a practice that is prohibited in the United States through an industry-imposed ethics code but still occurs in other countries. In China, authorities have said Glaxo compensated doctors for travel to conferences and lectures that never took place.
GSK说，公司将在2016年之前在全球各地落实前述计划。它在一份声明中说，根据计划，GSK不会再付费给医务工作者，让他们“在能够开处方或影响处方决定的听众面前”为自己的产品或疗效代言。公司还将停止直接赞助医生参加医学会议，美国已通过一项强制性的行业规范禁止了此类操作，但其他国家依然存在类似行为。在中国，当局已经表示，GSK曾给医生提供差旅费，用于参加根本不存在的会议和讲座。
Mr. Witty declined to comment on the Chinese investigation because he said it was still underway.
安伟杰以调查仍在进行为由，拒绝对中方的调查置评。
Glaxo will continue to pay doctors consulting fees for market research because Mr. Witty said it was necessary for the company to gain insight from doctors about their products, but he said that activity would be limited in scope. A Glaxo spokesman said that each year the company spends “tens of millions” of dollars globally on the practices that it was ending, but declined to be more specific.
GSK会继续向医生支付有关市场研究的咨询费，安伟杰说，这是因为公司需要了解医生对产品的看法，不过他说，这项活动会被限定在一定范围之内。GSK的一名发言人说，公司每年都会为即将终止的此类做法在全球耗资“数千万”美元，不过，他拒绝提供更详尽的细节。
Glaxo is among the largest drug companies in the world, reporting global third-quarter sales of 6.51 billion pounds, or $10.1 billion, a 1 percent rise from the same period a year ago. Sales fell markedly in China as the investigation proceeded.
GSK是全球最大的制药公司之一，第三季度报告的全球销售额达到65.1亿英镑，约合101亿美元（约合613亿元人民币），比去年同期增长了1%。由于调查的推进，其在中国的销售额出现了大幅下跌。
The move won qualified praise from Dr. Jerry Avorn, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School who has written critically about the drug industry’s marketing practices.
此举赢得了杰里·埃冯(Jerry Avorn)医生有保留的称赞，他是哈佛医学院(Harvard Medical Schoolv)医学教授，曾撰文批判制药行业的市场营销行为。
“It’s a modest acknowledgment of the fact that learning from a doctor who is paid by a drug company to give a talk about its products isn’t the best way for doctors to learn about those products,” Dr. Avorn said. But he noted that Glaxo would continue to provide what the company described in a statement as “unsolicited, independent educational grants” to continue educating doctors about their products.
埃冯博士表示，“这相当于委婉地承认了一个事实，即对于医生来说，了解产品的最佳途径并不是听那些收了制药公司的钱来推广产品的同行的介绍。”但他指出，GSK将继续提供该公司在声明中提到的“独立培训主动拨款”，继续帮助医生了解他们的产品。
He said that in the past the grants had often been provided to for-profit companies that rely on such payments from drug companies, raising questions about whether they are providing truly independent information.
他表示，过去，制药公司经常会给一些营利性的公司提供此类款项，后者依赖这些资金生存，这样的局面引发了人们的疑问，即它们提供的是不是真正独立的信息。
Glaxo is first among its peers to announce a plan to end paid-speaker programs, but it is not the only company considering such a move, said Pratap Khedkar, who oversees the pharmaceutical practice at ZS Associates, a global sales and marketing firm.
国际销售营销公司致盛咨询公司(ZS Associates)负责审查制药公司行为的普拉塔普·赫达卡(Pratap Khedkar)表示，GSK是第一个宣布终止雇佣代言人项目的制药公司，但却不是唯一的一个考虑此类措施的公司。
He said a handful of drug makers were weighing similar actions for several reasons, including concerns about the reaction to the required disclosure of such payments that will begin next fall under a provision of the new health care law. Glaxo and several other major companies already report many such payments, but Mr. Khedkar said the new requirements may go farther than what some companies are reporting, and will be accessible on a searchable government website.
他表示，其他一些制药商也在考虑采取类似措施，原因择多种多样，比如担心新医改法的规定——明年秋天开始，他们必须公开此类款项——带来的反应。GSK和其他几家大型公司已经公布了很多相关信息，但赫达卡表示，新规定要求公开的信息可能远多于一些公司汇报的内容，人们可以在一个可搜索政府网站上查到这些要求。
Previously, “It wasn’t really made public in some big, splashy way,” he said.
他表示，以前，“这些信息并没有以真正引人注目的方式公之于众。”
Beginning in 2015, Glaxo will also no longer compensate sales representatives based on the number of prescriptions doctors write, a standard practice that some have said pushed pharmaceutical salespeople to inappropriately promote drugs to doctors. In 2012, Glaxo paid a record $3 billion fines to resolve charges that it had marketed best-selling antidepressants and other drugs for unapproved uses. It is one of several major drug companies to have settled such cases in recent years.
从2015年开始，GSK将不再根据医生开药的数量来给予销售代表报酬，一些人表示，这种业内惯例促使药物销售人员以不恰当的方式向医生推广药物。2012年，GSK支付了30亿美元的创纪录罚款，以便解决相关指控，即该公司曾宣传旗下最畅销的抗抑郁药及其他一些药物具有未经证实的疗效。最近几年，有几家大型制药公司解决了此类案件，GSK就是其中之一。
Glaxo said its sales representatives worldwide would instead be paid based on their technical knowledge, the quality of service they provided to clients to improve patient care, and the company’s business performance. The company made such changes in the United States in 2011 but will now extend the practices to its global business.
GSK表示，该公司将根据销售代表的技术知识、为客户提供的改进治疗效果的服务的质量及公司业绩来为世界各地的销售代表支付薪酬。GSK于2011年在美国进行了此类改革，目前则打算将此类举措延伸到全球业务当中。
Mr. Khedkar said some other companies are also experimenting with different ways to compensate sales representatives, but they must tread carefully.
赫达卡表示，其他一些公司也在尝试根据不同标准为销售代表提供薪酬，但它们必须格外小心。
“You remove the incentive to do anything inappropriate, but you also remove the incentive to do what is appropriate, which is to promote the on-label use of your product,” he said.
他说，“你消除了做不该做的事情的动机，但却同时消除了做该做的事情的动机，该做的事情就是推广对产品的合理使用。”
Mr. Witty said the experience in the United States had been positive and had improved relationships with doctors and medical institutions.
安伟杰表示，在美国进行的尝试带来了积极的效果，改善了公司与医生和医疗机构的关系。
“It has really allowed us to build an engagement which is more substantive than it used to be, and it’s good for everybody,” he said.
他表示，“这真的让我们建立了一种比过去更具实质意义的关系，对大家来说都是好事情。”
Dr. Raed Dweik, the new chairman of the innovation management and conflict of interest committee at the Cleveland Clinic, said he hoped other companies would follow suit.
克利夫兰医学中心(Cleveland Clinic)创新管理与利益冲突委员会的新任主席拉伊德·德维克(Raed Dweik)博士表示，他希望其他公司效仿GSK的做法。
“As a physician, I periodically meet with these sales reps and they usually come in armed with information about me that I don’t even know,” he said, like the number of prescriptions he writes for the drug company’s product. “I feel that’s not really a comfortable interaction to have.”
“作为一名医生，我常常见到这些销售代表，他们来的时候通常已经对我了如指掌，有些信息连我自己都不知道，”他说，例子就是他为制药公司产品开出的处方数量。“我觉得，这并不是一种让人惬意的互动。”