Soccer fans called him the Black Panther, in the manner of the day, because he was from Mozambique, playing for Portugal, but there was little feline about Eusebio. He was big in the beams and solid around the middle even when he was 24 and, for a few magical weeks, the most captivating player of the 1966 World Cup.
当年球迷称他为“黑豹”(Black Panther)，因为他来自莫桑比克，在葡萄牙踢球，但尤西比奥身上几乎没有猫科动物的影子。即便在24岁时，尤西比奥就已经显得膀大腰圆，在1966年世界杯足球赛(World Cup)那几周神奇的时间里，最令人着迷的球员就是他。
He was the center of gravity in that tournament. It was his time. He personally willed Portugal back from a shocking 3-0 deficit to North Korea, the strangers who had already stunned Italy into a tomato barrage back home. Eusebio da Silva Ferreira — known as Eusebio in the Latin soccer single-name fashion — died on Sunday in Lisbon. He would have turned 72 on Jan. 25. His death was announced on the website of his longtime club, Benfica, and confirmed by his biographer, Jose Malheiro, who said he died of heart failure.
他是那届世界杯赛上万众瞩目的中心，那是他的如日中天的时刻。他几乎靠着个人意志，扭转了葡萄牙3:0落后于朝鲜的惊人局面。而在那之前，朝鲜队已经把目瞪口呆的意大利队送回老家，去接受球迷们丢来的番茄了。尤西比奥·达席尔瓦·费雷拉(Eusebio da Silva Ferreira)周日在里斯本去世——按照拉丁球员流行使用单名的习惯，人们只称呼他尤西比奥。而1月25日将是他的72岁生日。他长期效力的俱乐部本菲卡(Benfica)在官方网站上宣布了这个消息，他的传记作者若泽·马列罗(Jose Malheiro)予以了证实，并透露他的死因是心脏衰竭。
Eusebio carried Portugal to a third-place finish at the World Cup in 1966, after seven failures to qualify. In 1998, a panel of 100 experts gathered by FIFA, soccer’s world governing body, named him one of the sport’s top-10 greats.
尤西比奥率领葡萄牙队夺得了1966年世界杯的季军，该队之前七次连参赛资格的没有获得。1998年，全球足球管理机构国际足联(FIFA)召集了100名专家组成的评选小组，将尤西比奥评为最杰出的十名球员之一。
He was awarded the Ballon d’Or in 1965 as Europe’s player of the year and twice won the Golden Boot — in 1968 and ’73 — for being the top scorer in Europe.
1965年，尤西比奥作为欧洲年度最佳球员荣获金球奖(Ballon d’Or)；在1968年和1973年，他作为欧洲进球最多的球员，两度荣获金靴奖(Golden Boot),。
His death led Portugal to declare three days of national mourning.
葡萄牙宣布，全国为他的逝世哀悼三天。
Measuring only 5 feet 9 inches, and weighing 160 pounds in his prime, Eusebio somehow seemed much bigger. Perhaps that was because he stood up tall and did not waste motion or energy. He was dignified, in a sport that encourages nasty little shoves and exaggerated stumbles, in search of the slightest advantage.
尤西比奥身高5英尺9英寸（1.75米），在足球生涯鼎盛期体重仅为160磅（72.5公斤），但他的身形看上去似乎更高大一些。这也许是因为他站着的时候腰板挺直，而且不会做无用的动作或浪费能量。足球运动的机制促使球员为了小小的优势做出肮脏的小动作，或者故意夸张地假摔，但尤西比奥一直光明磊落。
Eusebio played down racial and national politics, praised others and denied stories about him that could have been turned into legend. Born in Mozambique on Jan. 25, 1942, to an Angolan father, he belonged to Portugal because those countries were still considered colonies. The rumor grew that he had been kidnapped by Benfica, the great power of Portuguese soccer, until he signed a contract.
尤西比奥淡化了涉及种族和民族的政治问题，称赞他人，并且否认了一些或许可以变成传奇的传闻。他1942年1月25日出生于莫桑比克，父亲是安哥拉人，由于这些国家当时仍是葡萄牙的殖民地，他成为了葡萄牙属民。有谣言说，他遭到葡萄牙足球豪门本菲卡的绑架，被迫签订了合同。
“These are all lies, pure and simple!” Eusebio said in a 2008 forum at fourfourtwo.com. “Some people aren’t honest, but me and my family are. My mother signed a contract with Benfica for 250 contos [around $1,700] and she insisted on a clause which read, ‘If my son does not adapt, the money is deposited in the bank in Mozambique and not one penny will be taken from it.’ I had return tickets when I arrived.”
“这些都是骗人的，就那么简单！”尤西比奥2008年在fourfourtwo.com举办的一场活动上说。“有些人不诚实，但我和我的家人都很诚实。我的母亲跟本菲卡签了一份价值25万埃斯库多（约合1万元人民币）的合同，她坚持加上一项条款，‘如果我儿子不适应在那里踢球，这些钱就会存入莫桑比克的银行，我们一分一毫都不要。’我到那里的时候，还带着回程票。”
Eusebio’s legacy is best seen and heard in the documentary, “Goal! The World Cup,” issued in 1967, with commentary by Brian Glanville. In the third match of the first round, a Portuguese player steamrollered the sport’s greatest star, Pelé, already playing with an injury. Eusebio stood by Pelé as the medics attended to him. The rumor was that Eusebio chastised his teammate, but he said, no, he stood by Pelé because “He is my friend.”
1967年发行，由布莱恩·格兰维尔(Brian Glanville)解说的纪录片《进球！世界杯》(Goal! The World Cup)最为生动地展现了尤西比奥的风采。在首轮第三场比赛中，一名葡萄牙球员撞倒了最伟大的足球明星贝利(Pelé)，当时贝利本来就是带伤上场。当医务人员处理贝利的伤势时，尤西比奥就站在他的旁边。传言说尤西比奥斥责了自己的队友，但他说没有，他站在贝利旁边是因为“他是我的朋友”。
Portugal eliminated Brazil, but then fell behind, 3-0, to North Korea in the first 25 minutes. However, Eusebio scored four goals, and Portugal won, 5-3.
葡萄牙淘汰了巴西，但在与朝鲜的比赛中，开场仅25分钟后就以3:0落后。之后尤西比奥独进四球，最终葡萄牙以5:3赢得了那场比赛。
“That was the best game of my life in a Portugal jersey,” Eusebio said. “It left its mark on me.”
“那是我身着葡萄牙球衣的生涯中，打得最好的一场比赛，”尤西比奥说。“它在我身上留下了印迹。”
The semifinal was supposed to be played in Liverpool, where Portugal was ensconced, but it was hurriedly shifted to Wembley, outside London, for its great capacity. Playing in its national stadium, England seemed truly at home. A wiry defender, Nobby Stiles, with more gall than teeth, marked Eusebio until a late penalty-kick goal in a 2-1 loss for Portugal.
半决赛本来定在利物浦进行，葡萄牙队已经在那里安顿下来，但赛场被匆匆改为伦敦以外的温布利，因为那里可以容纳更多观众。在自己的国家体育场里打比赛，英格兰队显得意气风发。清瘦结实的英格兰后卫诺比·斯泰尔斯(Nobby Stiles)对尤西比奥进行了密不透风的贴身紧逼盯防，尤西比奥在快结束时通过点球，才得以破门。最后英格兰以2:1战胜葡萄牙。
The big man patted the cheek of the English keeper, hugged the English defenders, and only when he reached the edge of the field did he begin to cry. (He scored his ninth goal of the World Cup in the third-place victory over the Soviet Union.)
这个有气度的男人拍了拍英格兰门将的脸颊，拥抱了英格兰队后卫，直到走到球场边上时，他才哭了起来。（在季军争夺赛中战胜苏联队时，尤西比奥打进了那届世界杯上他的第九个入球。）
The documentary is widely considered one of the greatest ever made about sport — and Eusebio is its star.
这部纪录片被普遍认为是有史以来最出色的体育纪录片之一，而尤西比奥就是片中的明星。
Eusebio had many other great moments, scoring 679 goals in 678 official games according to FIFA. Benfica won 11 league titles and five Portuguese Cups in his time. He was declared a national treasure by the Portuguese leader Antonio Salazar so he could not leave the country to take a higher salary in Italy, as players do today. In 2008, Eusebio insisted Salazar was acting in national self-interest, not for his own enrichment.
尤西比奥还有很多其他闪光的时刻，据国际足联的统计，他在678场正式比赛中攻入679个球。在他效力本菲卡队期间，该队夺得11届联赛冠军，五次捧得夺葡萄牙杯。葡萄牙领导人安东尼奥·萨拉查(Antonio Salazar)宣布他是国宝，因此他不能像现在的球员那样，离开葡萄牙去意大利踢球，从而获得更高的收入。2008年，尤西比奥坚持说，萨拉查那样做是为了国家利益，而不是他自己的私利。
When his body wore down, Eusebio was allowed to drift to the dying North American Soccer League, kept alive by Pelé.
状态衰落后，尤西比奥获准前往奄奄一息的、靠着贝利撑下来的北美足球联赛(North American Soccer League)踢球。
He remained an ambassador of Benfica, which placed a bronze statue of him outside the Stadium of Light, where fans congregated Sunday night.
他仍然是本菲卡队的形象大使。本菲卡队在光明球场外树立了一尊他的铜像，周日晚上，球迷聚集在该球场悼念他。
Survivors include his wife, Flora, two daughters and several grandchildren.
尤西比奥在世的家人有他的妻子弗洛拉(Flora)、两个女儿和几个外孙。