The actor Dong Zijian was in his late teens when he was tapped by the director Liu Jie to play the starring role in his 2013 film “Young Style,” about Beijing high school students preparing for university. Since then, Mr. Dong, now 22, has gone on to star in a number of films. Last year, he was nominated for best actor at the Cannes Film Festival for his role in Jia Zhangke’s “Mountains May Depart.” For his latest film, he teamed up with Mr. Liu once again to make “De Lan,” in which Mr. Dong plays a loan officer who travels to an ethnic Tibetan area of Yunnan Province and falls in love with a local woman. The film has been nominated for the main competition Golden Goblet award at this year’s Shanghai International Film Festival, which opens on Saturday. In an interview, Mr. Dong talked about life as a young actor, the state of independent films in China and why he idolizes Mr. Jia.
快到20岁那年，董子健被导演刘杰发现，在他2013年的电影《青春派》中出演主角，影片讲的是一群北京高中生准备高考的故事。从那以后，现年22岁的他出演了多部电影。去年，他因在贾樟柯《山河故人》中的角色获得戛纳电影节最佳男演员提名。他的最新影片与刘杰再度合作，在《德兰》中饰演一名信贷员，来到云南省藏区，爱上了一个当地女人。该片在周六开幕的本年度上海国际电影节上获得主竞赛单元金爵奖提名。在采访中，董子健谈起身为年轻演员的生活，独立电影在中国的状况以及他为何崇拜贾樟柯。
How did you get into acting?
问：你是怎样进入表演行业的？
It was pretty random. My mom works in the entertainment industry, but I never even considered going into it because I was too heavy, and I had never been asked to be in a movie. Then, when I was 17 or 18, I met the director Liu Jie. I was working out at the gym, and he called out to me and said, “Come here, kid.” So I picked up my sneakers and went over to him. He asked me to act in one of his movies, and I agreed.
答：这是很偶然的一件事。我妈妈在娱乐行业工作，但我从来没想过要进娱乐圈，因为我觉得自己太胖了，也从来没人请我去演电影。后来，十七八岁的时候，我遇到了刘杰导演。当时我正在健身房里锻炼，他叫住我：“过来，孩子。”于是我就拎起球鞋，冲他走过去。他邀请我在他的电影里出演角色，我就答应了。
What’s it like working as a young actor in China?
问：在中国当年轻演员是怎样一种体验？
People like me are usually at a bit of a disadvantage, because I am not that tall, handsome or talented. I can’t sing or play any instruments. But I’m lucky to be entering the film industry at a propitious time. I’ve had the opportunity to act in some art-house movies and work with a lot of new directors, like Xiao Yang and a Taiwanese director called Zeng Jingshu. Many of the postproduction companies are run and staffed by people from the post-1990 generation. It’s great to see these changes in the Chinese movie industry.
答：像我这样的人其实没什么优势，因为我不是太高，不帅也没什么天分。我不会唱歌，也不会玩乐器。但我很幸运，能在电影的繁荣时期进入这个行业。我已经有机会在艺术电影中出演角色，和很多新锐导演合作，比如肖洋，还有台湾导演藤井树。很多后期制作公司都是由90后经营运作的。看到中国电影的这些变化，感觉特别棒。
What are your thoughts on the state of independent films in China today?
问：你觉得如今中国的独立电影状况如何？
When people talk about Chinese films, they often talk about the brilliant art-house films of 30 or 40 years ago. They wonder why such films aren’t produced in China today. But, actually, these films do exist. It’s just that people aren’t paying attention. It used to be that the market was small, and those art-house films were the only movies people could watch. I’m talking about films like “Farewell My Concubine,” Zhang Yimou’s “To Live” and other films by Chen Kaige or Xie Jin.
答：说起中国电影，人们总喜欢说到三四十年前艺术电影的辉煌。他们疑惑为什么今天的中国拍不出这样的电影。但其实这样的电影也是存在的，只是人们没有去关注。过去的电影市场非常小，人们只能看到这样的艺术电影——我是指《霸王别姬》、张艺谋的《活着》，还有陈凯歌和谢晋他们导演的电影。
If you make the effort, you can still find these films today. There are more independent-leaning movie directors — people like Liu Jie, Jia Zhangke and Zhang Yimou, to a certain extent.
如果你想看的话，现在还是可以看到这样的电影。在某种程度上，现在有了更多走独立路线的导演，比如刘杰、贾樟柯和张艺谋。
Perhaps it has more to do with distribution. Even though these films are getting made, it’s hard for independent films to get wide distribution in theaters.
问：或许这和发行更有关系。就算有人拍了这样的电影，独立电影也很难广泛进入影院。
Yes, it’s a good time for commercial films and a bad time for serious movies. Some countries have art-house movie theaters dedicated to showing more independent films. China doesn’t have anything like this.
答：是的，现在是商业电影的好时代，也是严肃电影的坏时代。有些国家有艺术电影院线，专门放映更独立的电影。中国就没有这样的地方。
What was it like working with Jia Zhangke?
问：和贾樟柯共事是怎样一种体验？
Amazing. He’s my hero. The first time I saw one of Jia’s movies was when I was 11 or 12 years old. I found a disc on my parents’ DVD shelf. I thought it was a comedy, so I watched it. It was “Platform” [a 2000 film that traces the transformation of Chinese society from 1979 into the early 1990s through the fortunes of a group of young stage actors]. I didn’t know about Jia and, even though I didn’t understand the film, I watched it until the end because the scenes were interesting and fresh. When I met Jia a few years ago, I rewatched all his films, including “Platform.” It was totally different than I remembered. It was amazing. To put it plainly, Jia is my idol, a godlike figure to me. It’s great to have a director like him in China who tells the story of the people and discusses social issues.
答：太棒了，我崇拜他。我第一次看贾樟柯的电影时只有十一二岁。我在爸妈的DVD架子上找到一张碟，觉得肯定是喜剧，就开始看了，结果是《站台》（贾樟柯2000年的电影，通过一群年轻文工团演员的命运追溯中国社会从1979年到90年代初的巨变）。我那时还不了解贾樟柯，尽管我看不懂那部片子，我还是从头到尾看完了，因为里面的场景又新鲜又有趣。几年前我遇到了贾樟柯后，重新看完了他所有的电影，也包括《站台》。它和我记忆中的完全不一样了。真有意思。坦率地说，贾樟柯是我的偶像，对于我来说就像神一样。中国能有他这样的导演，去讲述人们的故事，探讨社会问题，真是太好了。
Which directors do you admire?
问：你还崇拜哪些导演？
That’s a tough question. Xavier Dolan is a director I admire a lot right now. He directed “I Killed My Mother.” When I learned that he made the film when he was 20, it was like a slap in the face. It inspired me to work harder.
答：这个问题真不好答。我现在很喜欢哈维尔·多兰(Xavier Dolan)，他拍过《我杀了我妈妈》(I Killed My Mothe)。当我知道他拍这部片子只有20岁时，简直就像在我脸上扇了一巴掌。这激励我更加努力工作。
Who are the Chinese directors you like the most?
问：你最喜欢的中国导演呢？
There are too many excellent Chinese movie directors. I can’t name them all. Jia Zhangke, Jiang Wen and Zhang Yimou are at the top of my list.
答：中国有太多优秀的电影导演了。我没法一一列举。贾樟柯、姜文和张艺谋是我最喜欢的。
The media talks a lot about competition between China and Hollywood. What are your thoughts?
问：媒体讨论了很多中国和好莱坞之间的竞争，你对此有什么看法？
I think the comparison itself is pretty boring. The reason why the market in China has grown so quickly is because China has a huge population. People have more money now, so it’s just filling a demand.
答：我觉得这种比较本身就很无趣。中国市场增长得这样快，主要是因为中国拥有庞大的人口。人们更有钱了，所以电影业的发展只是为了满足需求。