After a long battle with cancer, Val-Jean McDonald, mother of eight sons, with more than 20 grandchildren, almost as many great-grandchildren and three great-great-grandchildren, succumbed on Dec. 18 at the age of 81.
去年12月18日，81岁的瓦尔-简·麦克唐纳(Val-Jean McDonald)在和癌症进行了长久的抗争之后撒手人寰。她有8个儿子，20多个孙子女，20多个曾孙子女，还有三个玄孙。
Her funeral, 11 days later, attracted scores of mourners to Union Baptist Church in Harlem: her sons, from Manhattan, New Jersey, Georgia, Texas and Australia; other relatives and friends; and people who had never met her but knew her children.
11天后，她的葬礼在哈莱姆的工会浸会教堂(Union Baptist Church)举行，送葬者人数众多：她的儿子们从曼哈顿、新泽西州、佐治亚州、德克萨斯州和澳大利亚赶到了葬礼现场；许多亲戚朋友都来了；甚至从来没见过她本人，但认识她的孩子的人也来了。
They all filed past the open coffin, seeing familiar remnants of Ms. McDonald’s life: a favorite pink blouse and white suit, and her finest jewelry.
大家列队从麦克唐纳敞开的棺椁前走过，瞻仰她的遗容。眼前的一切都很熟悉：她穿着她最喜欢粉色衬衫和白色套装，戴着她最精致的珠宝。
“Why did they cut off all her hair?” a son, Errol McDonald, 57, remembers thinking. “Maybe it’s the cancer.” He bent and kissed her.
“他们为什么把她的头发剪了？”她的一个儿子、57岁的埃罗尔·麦克唐纳记得自己当时有过这样的想法。“或许是因为癌症的关系。”他弯下腰亲吻了她。
But sometimes children see what adults cannot. Adults rationalize. Children call it like it is.
但有时孩子会看到成年人看不到的东西。成年人会找到理由，把事情合理化。孩子则是有什么就说什么。
“My 10-year-old son said, ‘Daddy, that’s not Grandma,’” recalled Mr. McDonald, a school maintenance worker in Manhattan. “I said, ‘Yes, that’s what happens,’” he told the boy, explaining that people can look different in death.
“我10岁的儿子说，‘爸爸，那人不是奶奶，’”在曼哈顿的一所学校当维修工的埃罗尔·麦克唐纳回忆。“我说，‘是啊，有时候会有这种感觉，’”他向儿子解释，人死之后样子看起来会有些不同。
The next day, the family attended Ms. McDonald’s cremation at Woodlawn Cemetery.
第二天，一家人在伍德朗公墓为麦克唐纳夫人举行了火化仪式。
Six days passed. Then, a manager from McCall’s Bronxwood Funeral Home in the Bronx, which had handled the arrangements, called another of Ms. McDonald’s sons, the Rev. Richard McDonald, with shattering news, he said.
六天后，位于布朗克斯区的“麦考尔的布朗克斯伍德”殡仪馆(McCall’s Bronxwood Funeral Home)的一名经理，拨通了麦克唐纳夫人另一个儿子理查德·麦克唐纳牧师(Rev. Richard McDonald)的电话。后者表示，这个负责处理她母亲殡葬事宜的公司，告诉了他一个让人震惊的消息。
“She says, ‘That body was not your mother,’” Richard McDonald said in an interview. “‘Your mother is still here.’”
“她说，‘那具遗体不是您母亲的，’”理查德·麦克唐纳在接受采访时说。“您母亲的遗体还在我们这里。”
The woman who had been in that coffin, seen by all those people, kissed by her sons, was not Val-Jean McDonald at all.
那个躺在棺木里，被所有这些人瞻仰，被儿子们亲吻过的女士，根本不是瓦尔-简·麦克唐纳。
The revelation left Ms. McDonald’s family angry and incredulous, and asking themselves hard questions: How could so many people not have recognized that the woman in the coffin was not Ms. McDonald? How could her sons have convinced themselves, to a man, that this stranger was their mother?
这个消息让麦克唐纳一家觉得既愤怒又难以置信，他们也质问自己：为什么这么多人都没有认出棺材里的人不是麦克唐纳夫人？她的儿子们怎么会无一例外地全都说服自己，这个陌生人就是他们的母亲？
And how could a funeral home make such a mistake?
一家殡仪馆怎么能犯这样的错误？
A spokesman for McCall’s, George Arzt, declined to discuss specifics of the episode. “We have spoken to the families affected and acknowledged our deepest sorrows,” he said.
麦考尔的一名发言人乔治·阿茨特(George Arzt)拒绝讨论这个乌龙事件的具体细节。“我们已经和受害家属沟通过，也向他们表达了最深切的歉意，”他说。
The state’s Division of Cemeteries is investigating the matter, a spokesman said. The state’s Bureau of Funeral Directing is conducting a review, a spokeswoman said.
纽约州墓地司一名发言人表示，该机构正在调查此事。纽约州殡仪局一名女性发言人也表示，他们正在进行调查。
Several of the McDonald brothers described a sort of collective acceptance that while the woman had not looked exactly like their mother, it was plausible that the combination of her time at the hospital on a respirator and the embalming process had altered her appearance. In short, they had all seen what they wanted to see — their mother.
麦克唐纳家的几个儿子描述了一种可以称之为群体接受的因素，即尽管那位女士看起来不太像他们的母亲，但他们觉得有可能是她在医院治疗期间佩戴人工呼吸器，加上殡仪馆对遗体进行防腐处理，改变了她的样貌，这似乎说得过去。简而言之，他们都只看到了自己想看到的那个人：他们的母亲。
“It’s shameful,” Richard McDonald said.
“这挺丢人的，”理查德·麦克唐纳说。
The family first viewed the body on the day of the funeral, in the coffin they had ordered, with their mother’s name stitched into the fabric along the side. She was dressed in the pink blouse and the suit, and earrings and a wristwatch. The sons looked at the dead woman’s face.
家人第一次看到那具遗体是在葬礼当天，在他们所订购的那副棺木里，母亲的名字被绣在棺木侧面的织物上。她穿着粉色衬衫和一身套装，戴了一副耳环和一块手表。儿子们看着躺在棺木里的妇人的脸。
“We all did a double-take,” Mr. McDonald, 55, pastor of the Love of Jesus Family Church in Jersey City, said. “We thought something happened, and this is the best they could do.”
“我们当时都楞了一下，”55岁的麦克唐纳先生说，他是泽西城耶稣之爱家庭教会的牧师。“我们觉得肯定是之前发生了什么事，他们已经尽力了。”
A third son, Darryl McDonald, 51, had traveled to the funeral from Melbourne, Australia, where he is a basketball coach. “I said, ‘Rich, that doesn’t look like Mom,’” he recalled. “He told me she’d been in the hospital for a long time. She had tubes and all, and her face could have changed. I was like, ‘O.K.’”
麦克唐纳夫人的另一个儿子、51岁的达里尔·麦克唐纳(Darryl McDonald)从澳大利亚的墨尔本赶来参加葬礼，他是一名篮球教练。“我说，‘里奇（理查德的昵称——译注），这看起来不像是妈妈，’”他回忆道。“他告诉我，她在医院里住了很久，身上插了很多管子之类，她的脸可能因此变形了。我当时的反应是，‘好吧’。”
No other theory seemed plausible. “You’re in a funeral parlor,” Darryl said. “There is just no way that’s not my mother. You would never think that.”
除此之外想不出别的解释了。“你是在一个殡仪馆里，”达里尔说。“这个人根本不可能不是我母亲。你压根不会往那方面想。”
Adults would not, anyway. Another of Ms. McDonald’s granddaughters said that day that the woman did not look like her, and like Errol McDonald’s son, she had been corrected.
至少成年人不会那么想。就像埃罗尔的儿子一样，麦克唐纳夫人的另一个孙女当天也说过，那名妇人看起来不像她奶奶，但随即被大人们纠正了。
“A child would speak on it,” said Leroy McDonald, 60, a fourth son. “An adult says, ‘I’m sorry for your loss.’ Someone says, ‘That’s not your mom,’ in a funeral home? That would be appalling.”
“小孩子会说这种话，”麦克唐纳夫人的儿子、60岁的利罗伊·麦克唐纳说。“大人只会说，‘请节哀顺变。’如果有人在葬礼上说，‘那不是你妈，’那是很不像话的。”
He thought back to when he first saw the body. “When you look from a distance, it looks like my mom,” he said. “You know what threw me off? The lady had my mother’s clothes on.”
他回忆自己第一次见到那具遗体的情景。“从远处看，是有些像我母亲，”他说。“你知道是什么打消了我的疑问吗？那位女士穿着我母亲的衣服。”
More than 100 people attended the visitation hour before the funeral that evening, and more than that went to the ceremony, Richard McDonald, who officiated, said. He said the first floor of the church, which holds about 200 people, was filled, with others sitting upstairs. Several mourners, himself among them, eulogized the woman in the coffin, recalling Ms. McDonald’s years of service with the United States Postal Service and her raising eight boys in a crowded Harlem apartment.
理查德·麦克唐纳说，在那天晚上葬礼举行之前的家属慰问时间里，有100多人到场，之后有更多人参加了由他主持的葬礼。他说，那间能容纳约200人的教堂的一层大厅内座无虚席，还有一些人站在楼上。包括他自己在内，几名哀悼者在现场致辞，赞美躺在棺木里的妇人，回忆麦克唐纳夫人在美国邮政局多年的工作，以及她如何在哈莱姆一套局促的公寓内养大了8个儿子。
The next day, Ms. McDonald’s children accompanied the coffin to Woodlawn, where it was received at the crematory. Later, Richard McDonald worried that he had forgotten to say his customary prayer — “Ashes to ashes, dust to dust.”
第二天，麦克唐纳夫人的儿子们将遗体护送到伍德朗公墓，进行了火化。后来，理查德·麦克唐纳一直纠结自己当时是不是忘了循例讲那句祈祷词——“尘归尘，土归土。”
Then, on Jan. 5, the shattering call came. The manager at McCall’s contacted Mr. McDonald to tell him of the mistake.
然后，在1月5日，那个让人震惊的电话打了过来。麦考尔的那名经理联系到麦克唐纳，告诉他这中间出了错。
Photographs were taken of Ms. McDonald, still at the funeral home, and emailed to him.
对方拍摄了还留在殡仪馆内的麦克唐纳夫人的照片，通过邮件发给了他。
“That’s my mom,” he replied. He called his brother Darryl, who was to fly back to Australia later that day.
“是我母亲，”他回邮件确认。接着，他给原打算在当天晚些时候飞回澳大利亚的兄弟达里尔打了个电话。
“He said, ‘Are you sitting down?’” Darryl recalled. “‘Remember when you said it wasn’t Mom?’”
“他说，‘你先坐稳，’达里尔回忆。‘还记得你那天说那人不像是妈妈吗？’”
Darryl McDonald drove to McCall’s to confirm the news. His mother was naked on a metal table under a sheet, he said.
达里尔·麦克唐纳开车到麦考尔确认了这件事。他说，他看到母亲光着身子躺在一张金属桌上，身上只盖了条单子。
“The lady was apologizing,” he said, referring to the funeral home manager. “She only realized what she had done when she was looking for the other lady.”
“那名女士一直在道歉，”他说，他指的是殡仪馆的经理。“她是在寻找另外那名女士时才意识到自己做错了什么。”
The brothers scheduled another cremation at Woodlawn on Jan. 9. There was a brief viewing, with Ms. McDonald in a white gown in a coffin similar to the first. Four members of her family saw her that day.
1月9日，麦克唐纳兄弟几个在伍德朗公墓又举行了一场火化仪式。那是一场短暂的仪式，麦克唐纳夫人穿着白色的长袍躺在与之前那副类似的棺木里，有四名家庭成员在现场观礼。
Side-by-side photographs of the two women in their coffins suggest they were roughly the same age and size, with similar dark complexions. The McDonald family did not learn the names of the other woman or her family.
将两名女士躺在棺木内的照片并列看，可以发现二人年龄相当，体型相当，还有相似的黑色皮肤。麦克唐纳一家不知道另外那名女士及其家人的身份。
When Ms. McDonald was cremated, Richard McDonald made sure to say the prayer that time: “Ashes to ashes, dust to dust.”
麦克唐纳夫人的遗体这次被火化时，理查德·麦克唐纳确保自己没有忘记说那句祈祷词：“尘归尘，土归土。”