Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, was an adolescent boy in a small Alabama town in the early 1970s when he saw something he couldn’t forget.
20世纪70年代初，苹果(Apple)首席执行官蒂姆·库克(Tim Cook)还是阿拉巴马州一个小镇上的少年，当时他看到了令他无法忘却的一幕。
Bicycling home on a new 10-speed, he passed a large cross in flames in front of a house — one that he knew belonged to a black family. Around the cross were Klansmen, dressed in white cloaks and hoods, chanting racial slurs. Mr. Cook heard glass break, maybe someone throwing something through a window. He yelled, “Stop!”
他骑着一辆崭新的十速自行车回家，途中经过了一座房屋——他知道那是一个黑人家庭，屋前有一个大十字架正在燃烧。十字架周围是身披白色斗篷、戴着白色头套的三K党成员，嘴里念着种族歧视的口号。库克听到玻璃破碎的声音，可能有人朝窗户扔了什么东西。他大喊道，“住手！”
One of the men lifted his conical hood, and Mr. Cook recognized a deacon from a local church (not Mr. Cook’s). Startled, he pedaled away.
其中一个人摘下了圆锥形的头套，库克认出这人是当地一个教堂（不是库克所在的教堂）的执事。库克感到非常震惊，蹬着自行车离开了。
“This image was permanently imprinted in my brain, and it would change my life forever,” Mr. Cook said of the burning cross, in a speech he gave last December.
在去年12月的一次演讲中，库克提到了那个燃烧的十字架，他说，“那个画面一直印在我的脑海中，它将永远改变我的生活。”
In the speech, he said his new awareness made him feel that no matter what you do in life, human rights and dignity are values that need to be acted upon. And then came the segue: His company, Apple, is one that believed deeply in “advancing humanity.”
他在演讲中表示，这个新觉醒使他感到，无论你一生中做什么事情，人权和尊严都需要大家采取行动进行维护。而他掌管的苹果公司就深信“推动人类进步”的理念。
Mr. Cook, who is 53, took over leadership of Apple nearly three years ago, after the death of Steve Jobs, the company’s revered founder. Like Walt Disney and Henry Ford, Mr. Jobs was intertwined with his company. Mr. Jobs was Apple and Apple was Jobs.
大约三年前，也就是苹果公司备受尊敬的创始人史蒂夫·乔布斯(Steve Jobs)去世之后，53岁的库克接管了公司。就像沃尔特·迪士尼(Walt Disney)和亨利·福特(Henry Ford)一样，乔布斯与公司紧密交织在一起。乔布斯就是苹果，苹果就是乔布斯。
At the time, Mr. Cook was well regarded as a behind-the-scenes operations guy, but he was a relatively unknown quantity outside the company. He can be intensely private; for instance, the details of the cross-burning episode, like his reaction and the appearance of the deacon, he has shared with friends but not publicly. Even offering the outlines of that story in front of an audience, however, indicates how he is slowly beginning to reveal his own personality and style, and to define Apple leadership in his own image.
那时候，库克作为一个负责运营的幕后人物得到了广泛认可，但在公司外部，他还不被大众所了解。他非常注重隐私，比如，他向朋友们讲述了十字架被烧事件的细节、他的反应，以及执事的外貌，但从没公开谈论。虽然库克只向听众讲述了大体情节，但这说明，他正慢慢开始显露自己的个性和风格，开始以自己的形象来定义苹果的领导风格。
This is happening as Mr. Cook, who declined to be interviewed for this article, finds himself not only in the limelight, but also under scrutiny. Of late, the company has hit a snag that was years in the making: Its sales now are so large that many investors worry that it can’t continue to match the growth that brought it from $65 billion in sales in the 2010 fiscal year to $171 billion in 2013. In fiscal 2013, sales grew a mere 9 percent, far below an average just shy of 40 percent a year from 2004 to 2013. Profits slimmed. And the stock price fell nearly in half from its 2012 peak to the middle of 2013, vastly underperforming the market.
此时，库克发现自己不仅处于聚光灯下，而且还受到密切监督。库克拒绝就该文章接受采访。最近，苹果公司遇到了一个潜伏多年的难题：公司的销售额非常高，以至于很多投资者担心，他无法继续实现以往那种高速增长，2010至2013财年期间，苹果销售额从650亿美元（约合4049亿元人民币）增至1710亿美元。在2013财年，销售额仅增长了9%，远低于2004年至2013年将近40%的平均年增长率。利润也在减少。到2013年年中，其股价较2012年的峰值下降了将近50%，表现远逊于大盘。
Investors have clamored for Apple wizardry — a much-anticipated iWatch or iTV, perhaps. To these critics, Mr. Cook is uninspiring, his social views window dressing, when what they want is magic.
投资者吵着让苹果使出苹果魔法——推出万众期待的iWatch或iTV。这些批评者认为，库克毫无新意，他的社会观点只是表面功夫，他们想要的是魔力。
“Where is the grand design?” asks Laurence I. Balter, chief market strategist at Oracle Investment Research. Mr. Balter credits Mr. Cook as having great skills in operations and in managing the supply chain, which entails getting the raw materials and machinery in place to build things — but not with having the vision to design them. “All we hear from Cook,” Mr. Balter says, “is there are some great products coming down the pike.”
甲骨文投资研究公司(Oracle Investment Research)的首席市场策略师劳伦斯·I·巴尔特(Laurence Balter)问道，“伟大的设计在哪里？”巴尔特称赞库克非常善于运营，管理供应链——建造东西需要将原始材料和机器准备好，但他没有设计产品的想象力。“库克一直在说，”巴尔特表示，“公司将会推出卓越产品。”
Mr. Balter calls Apple a financial “Rock of Gibraltar"— it is sitting on $150.6 billion of cash — but he says he has serious questions about whether it can continue to be a hypergrowth company. Is it a stock for growth investors, he asks, “or widows?”
巴尔特称苹果是一座金融上的“直布罗陀岩山”——公司拥有1560亿美元现金，但能否继续保持高速增长，他表示强烈怀疑。他问道，苹果股票是增长投资型，“还是寡妇股”？
“Show me the product,” he says. “Show me the ingenuity.”
“让我看到产品，”他说。“让我看到独创性。”
To shore up shareholder faith, Mr. Cook split the stock, increased the dividend and engineered a $90 billion buyback — steps that helped shares rebound almost entirely. He has taken other steps to strengthen the company, like pushing Apple products into China, a potentially huge market, and acquiring talent, most recently spending $3 billion to buy Beats, a music company that brings Apple two major music-industry shakers and deal makers, Dr. Dre and Jimmy Iovine.
为了提振投资者信心，库克拆分股权，增加股息，还制定了900亿美元的回购计划，这些举措促使苹果股票全面反弹。他还采取了其他举措增强公司实力，比如进入潜力巨大的中国市场，招纳人才，最近出资30亿美元收购音乐公司Beats，这为苹果带来了音乐界的两位重要领路人——德瑞医生(Dr. Dre)和吉米·艾欧文(Jimmy Iovine)。
Reflecting his personal views, Mr. Cook is trying to broaden Apple’s brand, too, taking to Twitter and other public venues to express support for environmentalism and gay rights (and for Auburn University football). He has also emphasized the use of sustainable products at the company. Early in his tenure, playing catch-up with other corporations, he established a program to match employee charitable contributions; he has upped the company’s own giving, too.
库克还在设法扩大苹果的品牌影响力，借助Twitter和其他公共场所表达对环保、同性恋权利（及奥本大学[Auburn University]橄榄球队)的支持，这些举动也反映了他的个人观点。他还强调了公司对可持续产品的利用。担任首席执行官之初，库克开始追赶其他公司的步伐，设立了一个慈善项目——只要员工进行慈善捐款，苹果就会随捐；他还增加了公司本身的捐赠金额。
Jonathan Ive, the head of design at Apple and a name nearly as adored by its followers as Steve Jobs, says Mr. Cook has not neglected the company’s central mission: innovation. “Honestly, I don’t think anything’s changed,” he said. And that includes the clamor for some exciting new thing. “People felt exactly the same way when we were working on the iPhone,” Mr. Ive added.
几乎和史蒂夫·乔布斯一样受爱戴的苹果设计主管乔纳森·艾夫(Jonathan Ive)表示，库克没有忽略公司的主要任务：创新。他表示，“坦白说，我觉得没什么变化。”大家要求苹果推出令人兴奋的新产品的呼声也没有改变。艾夫还表示，“我们研发iPhone时，大家的感觉还是一样的。”
“It is hard for all of us to be patient,” Mr. Ive said. “It was hard for Steve. It is hard for Tim.”
“耐住性子并非易事，”艾夫说。“当初对史蒂夫来说很难，现在对蒂姆也很难。”
Spirit of Hardware Past
硬件的老情怀
There is a mythology, with some part of truth, that Mr. Jobs was the soul of the design process, the company’s Innovator in Chief. For the original iPhone, Mr. Jobs checked in weekly with engineers, according to Francisco Tolmasky, a former Apple engineer who worked on the phone’s browser.
有这样一则神话：乔布斯是设计过程的灵魂，是公司的“总创新师”，这在部分上是真实的。曾参与iPhone浏览器开发工作的前苹果工程师弗朗西斯科·托马斯基(Francisco Tolmasky)透露，对于初代iPhone，乔布斯每周都会检查工程师的工作。
“Steve was really adamant,” Mr. Tolmasky reflected, adding that Mr. Jobs would say: “'This needs to be like magic. Go back, this isn’t magical enough!'”
“史蒂夫十分坚定，”托马斯基回忆道，他还表示，乔布斯会说：“‘要像魔法一样才行。重新来过，这个不够像魔法！’”
Almost daily, employees would spot Mr. Jobs having lunch on Apple’s campus with Mr. Ive. These days, Mr. Ive said, he meets three days a week with Mr. Cook, generally in each other’s offices. But Mr. Ive said the design processes are essentially unchanged.
几乎每一天，员工们都会看见乔布斯在苹果园区内与艾夫吃午饭。艾夫说，现在他每周与库克碰面三次，通常是在各自的办公室。但是艾夫说，设计流程实质上没有变化。
“Steve established a set of values and he established preoccupations and tones that are completely enduring,” Mr. Ive said. Chief among them is a reliance on small creative teams whose membership remains intact to this day. The philosophy that materials and products are intertwined also continues under Mr. Cook. For instance, when the company decided to use titanium to build a laptop, Mr. Ive said, he and Mr. Cook and Mr. Jobs thought about how to push the boundaries of the metal to get the look and feel they wanted. And Mr. Ive pointed to another enduring value: a complete focus on the product.
“史蒂夫建立了一套价值观，他在公司树立起的专注和态度完全保留了下来，”艾夫说。其中最主要的就是依赖小规模的创意团队，而这些团队的成员直到今天都保持着原状。材料和产品相互交织的理念在库克时代也仍在维持，例如，当公司决定用钛制造笔记本电脑时，艾夫说，他与库克和乔布斯考虑过该如何挑战金属材质的极限，从而得到他们想要的外观和感觉。艾夫还提到了另一项延续至今的价值观：将所有注意力倾注在产品上。
If Mr. Jobs was maniacal about design, Mr. Cook projects “quiet consideration,” Mr. Ive said. Mr. Cook digests things carefully, with time, which Mr. Ive said “testifies to the fact he knows it’s important.”
艾夫形容，如果说乔布斯对于设计很疯狂，那么库克给出的则是“安静的思考”。库克会花时间仔细地理解事情，艾夫说，这“表明了他知道这很重要”。
Lower-level employees praise Mr. Cook’s approachability and intellect. But some say he is less hands-on in developing products than his predecessor. They point to the development of the so-called iWatch — the “smartwatch” that Apple observers are eagerly awaiting as the next world-beating gadget. Mr. Cook is less involved in the minutiae of product engineering for the watch, and has instead delegated those duties to members of his executive cabinet, including Mr. Ive, according to people involved in the project, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to press. Apple declined to comment on the watch project.
低级别的员工称赞库克有才智而且平易近人。但是有人说，与前任相比，他对产品的研发过程把控没有那么紧密。他们提到，被称为iWatch的产品的研发过程就是如此——苹果观察人士对这款“智能手表”热切期待，认为它会是下一个全球瞩目的设备。该项目的参与者透露，库克对于这款手表的产品工程细节并没有那么深地介入，而是将那些职责交给了管理团队的成员，包括艾夫。由于没有向媒体透露信息的权限，这些内部人士要求匿名。苹果也拒绝对智能手表项目发表评论。
Mr. Cook appears to be interested in the smartwatch’s broader implications — for instance, that a watch might monitor heart rate and other vital measures, thus improving health and limiting doctor visits, according to these people. The watch is expected to be released in the fourth quarter, these people said.
上述内部人士说，库克的兴趣点似乎在于，这款智能手表能在更广泛的层面带来什么影响，例如，让手表监控心率和其他关键体征，这样就能改善健康状况，减少求医问诊的次数。这些内部人士透露，这款智能手表预计将于第四季度发布。
Mr. Cook has also looked outside of Apple for experienced talent. He has hired executives from multiple industries, including Angela Ahrendts, the former head of Burberry, to oversee the physical and online stores, and Paul Deneve, the former Yves Saint Laurent chief executive, to take on special projects. He also hired Kevin Lynch, the former chief technology officer of Adobe, and Michael O’Reilly, former medical officer of the Masimo Corporation, which makes health monitoring devices. Not to mention the music men of Beats.
库克也会从苹果之外寻找有经验的人才。他聘请了来自多个产业的高管，包括请博柏利(Burberry)前CEO安吉拉·阿伦茨(Angela Ahrendts)来负责实体店铺和在线商店，请伊夫·圣洛朗(Yves Saint Laurent)前CEO保罗·德内夫(Paul Deneve)负责特别项目。他还雇佣了奥多比(Adobe)首席技术官凯文·林奇(Kevin Lynch)，以及制造医疗监控设备的迈心诺公司(Masimo Corporation)前首席医疗官迈克尔·奥莱利(Michael O’Reilly)。来自Beats的音乐人更是毋庸赘述。
Mr. Cook is amassing a creative brain trust, according to Bono, the lead singer of the band U2, who befriended Mr. Jobs and worked closely with him and Apple’s team on developing a U2-branded iPod, as well as on charitable work in Africa. Mr. Cook is not saying “I’m here to replace him,” said Bono, who is a managing director and co-founder of the venture capital firm Elevation Partners. “He’s saying, ‘I’ll try to replace him with five people.’ It explains the acquisition of Beats.”
U2乐队主唱博诺(Bono)透露，库克正在积聚一个“创意智库”。博诺与乔布斯是朋友，曾与乔布斯和苹果团队紧密合作，开发U2品牌的iPod，并在非洲开展慈善活动。博诺评价，库克的想法并不是“我是来取代他的，他说的是，‘我要试着用五个人来代替他。’这也能解释苹果收购Beats的举动。”博诺是风险投资公司Elevation Partners的执行董事及联合创始人。
That doesn’t mean Mr. Cook is uninvolved in product decisions. Since he took over, the company has released a number of upgrades, including a smaller tablet, the iPad Mini. Mr. Cook “thought the world would love a smaller and less expensive tablet,” said Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of Disney and a member of Apple’s board. It was a product that Mr. Jobs thought did not have a market, he said.
但这并不意味着库克不参与产品决策。自从库克接掌苹果以来，公司发布了不少新产品，其中包括尺寸较小的平板电脑iPad Mini。迪士尼CEO、苹果公司董事罗伯特·A·艾格(Robert A. Iger)表示，库克“认为大家应该会喜欢一款更小、也更便宜的平板电脑。”艾格说，乔布斯当初认为这样的产品没有市场。
Sales of the iPad Mini quickly exceeded those of the normal-size iPad, according to analysts. Gartner and ABI Research estimated that within the first year the smaller tablet went on sale, it accounted for 60 percent of overall iPad sales.
分析人士透露，iPad Mini推出后，销量很快就超过了常规尺寸的iPad。高德纳(Gartner)和ABI研究公司(ABI Research)估计，尺寸较小的iPad上市后的第一年里，销量就占到了iPad总销量的60%。
Still, some product iterations have brought mixed results. Last year, Apple for the first time introduced two new iPhones instead of just one: the high-end iPhone 5S, which sold like gangbusters, and the lower-cost, plastic-covered iPhone 5C, which disappointed.
不过，对于一些新版本的产品，销售业绩却喜忧参半。去年，苹果首次推出了两款新版iPhone，而不是以往的一款：高端的iPhone 5S，以及塑料壳的低价版iPhone 5C。前者销售火爆，后者却不尽如人意。
What makes Apple’s challenge particularly daunting is the law of large numbers. Its sales are so big that even another new strong product — unless it’s a gigantic hit on the order of the iPhone — won’t lead to the kind of growth to which some investors have grown accustomed, noted Toni Sacconaghi, a financial analyst who covers Apple for Bernstein Research. He put it this way: If Apple makes an iWatch and sells 10 million units in the first year, it would add a mere 50 cents to its earnings per share, barely a single percentage point.
苹果面临的挑战之所以格外可怕，主要归咎于大数定律。伯恩斯坦研究公司(Bernstein Research)从事苹果研究的金融分析师托尼·萨克纳吉(Toni Sacconaghi)说，这家公司的销量实在太过惊人，即便是再推出一个强势新产品，也无法实现部分投资人已经习以为常的那种增长——除非是类似iPhone那个级别的巨大成功。他这样形容目前的状况：如果苹果开发出了一款iWatch，第一年卖出1000万只，那么给每股带来的收益也不过50美分，几乎不到一个百分点。
“Most people would say, if you sell 10 million units of something that would be incredible,” Mr. Sacconaghi said. But not so with Apple. “There are very few things that could move the needle,” he added.
“一个东西卖了1000万份是很了不起的，多数人都会这么说，”萨克纳吉说。但放在苹果就行不通了。“能带来明显变化的东西已经少之又少，”他说。
Michael A. Cusumano, a professor in the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T., said he thought Apple no longer had the juice to create the world-beating product it needs. Professor Cusumano, who is working on a book about innovation, visited Apple’s headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., last fall and has talked to a half-dozen current and former employees about the company culture. He concluded that Apple without Mr. Jobs lacks a visionary to synthesize disparate ideas into a magical whole.
麻省理工学院斯隆管理学院(Sloan School of Management)教授迈克尔·A·库苏马诺(Michael A. Cusumano)说，他认为苹果已经不具备足够的能量来制造出征服世界的产品。库苏马诺教授正在写作一本关于创新的书，去年秋天他探访了苹果在加州库比提诺的总部，和一些现任和离职员工谈了公司的文化。他的结论是，没有乔布斯的苹果缺乏将迥异的想法撮合成一个奇妙整体的那种创见。
“Jobs would figure out how to put the pieces together,” Professor Cusumano said. “Everything just filtered through his eyes.”
“乔布斯知道怎么把所有东西拼到一起，”库苏马诺说。“一切都要过他的眼。”
“I think it’s going to be very difficult for them to come up with the next big thing,” he added. “They’ve lost their heart and soul.”
“我认为他们要拿出下一个大产品已经很困难了，”他还说。“他们已经失去了心和灵魂。”
‘Just and Right’
“公正与正确”
If Mr. Jobs was the heart and soul of the company, Mr. Cook seems to be trying to cast himself as a different sort of leader. His Twitter feed is a mash-up of Apple hoopla and cheerful promotion of human rights and environmentalism. He wrote an opinion piece in The Wall Street Journal in support of proposed federal legislation protecting gay, lesbian and transgender workers.
如果说乔布斯是这个公司的心和灵魂，库克给自己的定位似乎是另一种领导者。他的Twitter账号混杂着苹果活动花絮和对人权与环保的乐观推广。他在《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)撰文，支持一项保护同性恋和变性工人权益的联邦立法提案。
He often quotes Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy but doesn’t much talk about the origin of his political views. The speech he gave last December, in which Mr. Cook mentioned the cross-burning, started to give some hints. “Since these early days,” he said, “I have seen, and I have experienced, many other types of discrimination.” All of those, he continued, “were rooted in a fear of people that were different than the majority.” Apple declined to say what he meant by the reference to discrimination he experienced, but it did confirm the details of the cross-burning story.
他经常引用小马丁·路德·金(Martin Luther King Jr.)和罗伯特·F·肯尼迪(Robert F. Kennedy)的话，但不常谈及自己的政治观点缘起。去年12月的演讲中，库克提到了那个焚烧十字架的故事，这才给人们一些提示。“从早年间起，”他说，“我见过、经历过各种各样的歧视。”而所有这些歧视，“根源都在于，人害怕和主流不一样的东西。”至于他提到自己所经历的歧视具体指什么，苹果公司拒绝透露，但确认了焚烧十字架的一些细节。
The speech was given at the United Nations, where Mr. Cook was accepting a lifetime achievement award from Auburn, his alma mater. He graduated from the university in 1982 with a degree in industrial engineering. He worked at IBM while earning a graduate business degree at Duke, then went to Intelligent Electronics and Compaq. In 1998, he was approached by Mr. Jobs when Apple was struggling, but as Mr. Cook recounted later in a 2010 commencement speech at Auburn, he saw it as a “once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to work for the creative genius.”
演讲是在联合国进行的，库克在那里接受母校奥本大学颁发的终身成就奖。他是1982年从那里毕业的，拿到的是工业工程学位。在杜克大学(Duke)读商科研究生期间，他在IBM工作，而后又去了智能电子公司(Intelligent Electronics)和康柏(Compaq)。1998年乔布斯找到了他，当时苹果公司处境艰难，但库克后来在2010年奥本大学毕业典礼演说中回忆说，在他看来，那是“为创新天才做事的一个千载难逢的机会”。
He rose to become executive vice president for worldwide sales and operations in 2002. In the period after he became C.E.O. in 2011, the working conditions in Chinese factories used by major tech companies, including Apple, came under increasing scrutiny. By April 2012, after suicides and accidents among Chinese factory workers, a quarter of a million people had signed a petition on Change.org urging Apple to improve working conditions in the factories. Apple since 2006 had already commissioned public reports on troubling practices inside many factories. In 2012, it also began publishing an annual list of its major suppliers, their locations, and what is made at the major ones, as well as reporting the working hours for more than a million factory employees.
2002年，他已经坐上了全球销售和运营执行副总裁的位置。在2011年担任CEO之后的一段时间里，包括苹果在内的大型科技企业所使用的中国工厂受到了越来越密切的关注。到了2012年4月，在中国工厂出现多起工人自杀和事故后，25万人在Change.org上签署请愿书，敦促苹果改善工厂的工作条件。针对许多工厂内存在的一些令人不安的做法，苹果从2006年开始委托进行公共调查，并发布报告。2012年起，公司还开始发布年度主要供应商清单，包括它们所在位置，负责生产什么，并通报了超过一百万名工厂职工的工作时长。
Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser to President Obama, said Mr. Cook’s building of a production plant in Arizona and a Texas factory for making high-end Mac computers domestically was “a tremendous vote of confidence for an iconic company that previously shipped jobs overseas.” (A majority of manufacturing is still done outside the United States — for instance, an estimated 90 percent of the iPhone’s hundreds of parts are made abroad.) Ms. Jarrett also praised Apple’s donation of $100 million to equip schools with technology, including iPads and high-speed Internet.
库克正在亚利桑那州建造一座工厂，还在德克萨斯建厂以便将高端Mac电脑的生产本土化，奥巴马总统的高级顾问瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)称，“作为一家此前将工作派遣至海外的代表性企业，此举表现出了它的极强信心。”（制造的主体部分仍在美国以外的地方完成——比如iPhone的数百个零件有约90%是在海外生产的。）贾勒特还赞扬苹果捐赠1亿美元为学校添置科技设备，包括iPad和高速互联网。
Apple also made a quick transition to using 100 percent renewable energy sources in its data centers, which makes it “the most aggressive of the companies that we evaluated in getting renewables online,” said Gary Cook, a senior policy analyst at Greenpeace.
此外，苹果的数据中心也迅速完成转型，成为使用100%可再生能源的设施，绿色和平(Greenpeace)高级政策分析师加里·库克(Gary Cook)说，这使苹果成为“我们评估过的公司中，在将可再生能源用于网络方面最为进取的一个”。
Ryan Scott, the chief executive of Causecast, a nonprofit that helps companies create volunteer and donation programs, called Mr. Cook’s charitable initiatives a “great start.” But Mr. Scott added that its programs are “not as significant as what other companies are doing.” Apple’s ambitions “could be much higher,” he said, given its money and talent. By comparison, Microsoft says that, on average, it donates $2 million a day in software to nonprofits, and its employees have donated over $1 billion, inclusive of the corporate match, since 1983. In the last two years, Apple employees have donated $50 million, including the match.
非营利机构Causecast的CEO瑞安·斯科特(Ryan Scott)称，库克的慈善举动是“很好的开端”。Causecast帮助企业建立志愿者和捐款项目。不过，斯科特还说，苹果公司的项目“影响力不及其他企业开展的项目”，考虑到苹果拥有的资金和人才，“还可以有更大的”抱负。与此相对比，微软公司(Microsoft)透露，该公司平均每天向非营利机构捐赠价值200万美元的软件产品。此外，自1983年以来，微软员工已累计捐款超过10亿美元，这一数字也包括员工捐款后，公司随捐的金额。过去两年里，苹果员工捐赠了5000万美元，包括公司随捐金额。
Apple, too, has faced accusations from government officials on a number of troubling issues, including strategies to minimize its corporate taxes. (On the tax issue, Mr. Cook, told a Senate panel last year that Apple is the nation’s largest taxpayer and pays what it owes.) Last July, a federal judge ruled that Apple had illegally conspired with publishers to try to raise prices in the e-books market; Apple is appealing.
此外，苹果还因为一系列棘手的问题，面临着政府官员的指责，包括该公司极力减轻企业税负担的避税策略。（关于避税问题，库克曾在去年对参议院的一个委员会表示，该公司是美国最大的纳税企业，依法纳税。）去年7月，一家联邦法院判定，苹果与多家出版商串通，试图提高电子书市场中的价格。目前，苹果正在对此进行上诉。
Mr. Cook’s public emphasis on social issues nonetheless puts him “on the cutting edge of an emerging new mind-set in corporate leadership about values and value creation,” said James E. Austin, an emeritus professor at the Harvard Business School. But Kellie McElhaney, a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, said she “gets nervous” when C.E.O.s talk about doing what is “right” without making a business case.
哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)荣休教授詹姆斯·E·奥斯汀(James E. Austin)评价道，尽管如此，库克公开强调社会议题，仍然让他“在企业领袖中新兴起的价值和价值创造理念方面，走在了最前沿”。但是加州大学伯克利分校哈斯商学院(Haas School of Business)教授凯丽·麦克尔哈尼(Kellie McElhaney)说，每当她听到CEO大谈做“正确的”事，却不谈商业理由，她就会“感到紧张”。
“Right to whom?” she asked.
“对谁来说是正确的？”她问道。
That’s a view shared by some investors. At a shareholder meeting on Apple’s campus in February, one shareholder — who later described himself as having free-market values — asked Mr. Cook whether Apple should avoid embracing environmental causes that lacked a clear profit motive.
其他一些投资者也有同感。今年2月，在苹果园区召开的股东大会上，一名股东——后来他说自己具有“自由市场”价值观——问库克，苹果是否应该避免拥抱缺乏明确盈利动机的环境事业。
Mr. Cook did not respond by saying, as many executives would, that environmentalism is pragmatic and good for the bottom line. His reasoning was moral.
很多高管都会说，环保事业具有实用价值，有益于公司的利润增长，但库克没有这么回答。他给出的理由是道德方面的。
“We do things because they’re just and right,” he said. He has a slight Alabama drawl and a cool delivery, but there was underlying pique in his voice when he rejected the idea that everything must be measured by return on investment. He concluded by telling shareholders, “If you want me to make decisions that have a clear R.O.I., then you should get out of the stock, just to be plain and simple.”
“我们之所以会做某些事情，是因为它们是公正与正确的，”库克说。他带着点轻微的阿拉巴马州口音，慢条斯理地否定了一切都必须由投资回报率来衡量的理念，口气很淡然，声音里却蕴含着恼怒。他对股东们总结道，“简单直接地说，如果你希望我做的决定都有着明确的投资回报率，那么你应该卖掉苹果的股份。”
He received rousing applause from the crowd, which included Al Gore, a member of Apple’s board. But the shareholder who asked the question, Justin Danhof, mourned that “I’ve never had a C.E.O. react that way.” In the following days, some stock analysts echoed the dismay, with one columnist, Robert Weinstein of The Street, wondering whether Mr. Cook “is shifting Apple’s focus from an aggressive luxury tech innovator into more of an increasingly philanthropic-focused company.”
人群对此报以热烈的掌声，作为苹果公司董事，阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)也在这些人中。但是提问的股东贾斯汀·丹霍夫(Justin Danhof)却感到悲哀，“我从来没有看到哪个首席执行官以那样的方式做出回应。”随后数日里，一些股票分析师也对此表示了惊愕，财经网站The Street的专栏作家罗伯特·温斯汀(Robert Weinstein)表示，他想知道，库克是否“正在把苹果从一家进取的奢侈科技产品创新公司，转变成一家愈发以慈善为主的企业”。
Lennon vs. Ringo
列侬(Lennon) vs.林戈(Ringo)
Two weeks ago, Mr. Cook stood on stage at the company’s annual developer’s conference in San Francisco in front of 5,000 enthralled software developers. These are the makers of apps for the iPhone and other gadgets, and Mr. Cook promised them something he called “the biggest release since the launch of the App Store.”
两周前，苹果的年度开发者大会在旧金山举行，库克站在舞台上，下面是5000名如醉如痴的软件开发者。这些人为iPhone和其他苹果设备开发应用，库克承诺为他们呈上“自苹果应用商店推出以来最重大的新品”。
To tell the developers about it, Mr. Cook said, “I’d like to invite my colleague, Superman, back to the stage.”
库克说，“我想请我的同事‘超人’回到舞台上。”由他来介绍这款新品。
Of course, for years, the only Apple superhero was Mr. Jobs. As Mr. Cook walked toward the darkness, stage left, there was a moment of mystery. Then out sprang Craig Federighi, head of Apple’s software engineering. He passed Mr. Cook and headed into the limelight to describe the new release. It was not a new consumer product, but a set of software tools called a developer’s kit, which would help developers build better apps.
当然，多年以来，苹果只有一个超级英雄，那就是乔布斯。当库克走向舞台左侧的暗处时，气氛一时变得神秘起来。这时苹果软件工程负责人克莱格·费德里西(Craig Federighi)快步走上台。他和库克插肩而过，走到聚光灯下，向大家介绍这款新品。它不是一款新的消费产品，而是一套名为“开发工具包”的软件工具，可以帮助开发人员开发出更好的应用。
If the rest of the world yawned, the developers stood, and whooped.
这个世界上的其他人可能会对此打哈欠，但开发者们站起身，兴奋地叫嚷起来。
Afterward, devotees like Jordan Brown, 25, and three of his colleagues, roamed the convention center.
主旨演讲结束之后，和其他果粉一样，25岁的乔丹·布朗(Jordan Brown)和他的三个同事在会展中心漫步。
The four men, who are with a health care app company called Orca Health, had traveled from Salt Lake City and had spent the previous night on the sidewalk to get a good seat at the keynote address. They were scruffy-faced and exhausted, but adrenaline-fueled. Mr. Brown said he viewed Mr. Cook “as someone making sure everything is clicking, but he’s not inspiring.” Mr. Federighi, on the other hand, “resembles Steve,” he said.
他们四个人在一家名为Orca Health的医疗保健应用公司工作，从盐湖城来到这里。为了占到主旨演讲大厅里的好座位，他们头天晚上一直待在人行道上。四人形容邋遢，疲惫不堪，但是非常兴奋。布朗说，他认为库克“确保了所有东西精确就位，但他不会令人感到心潮澎湃。”而费德里西“就像史蒂夫”，他说。
Mr. Brown’s colleague Chad Zeluff, 27, who saw Mr. Jobs deliver the keynote in 2007, put it this way: “Jobs is to Lennon what Cook is to Ringo.”
布朗的同事扎德·泽卢夫(Chad Zeluff)曾在2007年听过乔布斯的主旨演讲，他说，“乔布斯像列侬，库克像林戈。”
A floor away, Mr. Cook was surrounded by young developers, eagerly snagging selfies as the chief executive mingled post-keynote. Ringo is still a Beatle.
在相隔一层楼的地方，库克在完成主旨演讲后，出来跟大家见面，年轻的开发者环绕着他，兴奋地自拍合照。林戈照样是披头士的一员。
The Utah developers generally expressed support for Mr. Cook. It would be enough, they said, if he put the pieces together. And they said Apple was doing a good job in software innovation, which can add new features to existing devices even if Apple doesn’t produce a new gadget.
这几个犹他州开发者普遍表示支持库克。他们说，他能把东西整合在一起，这样也就够了。他们还说，即便苹果不推出新设备，该公司在软件创新上也做得不错，因而可以为现有设备添加新功能。
They hadn’t heard much about Mr. Cook’s social activism. “I was barely aware of it,” said Gary Robinson, 35, the oldest of the Utah developers. “It’s good, and important.
关于库克的社会活动，他们之前了解不多。“我几乎完全不知道这事，”35岁的加里·罗宾逊(Gary Robinson)说，他是这群犹他开发者中最年长的一位。“这是好事，而且也很重要。
“But it’s not what matters to me,” he added. “It’s not why I’m here.”
“但是这对我来说不怎么要紧，”他补充说。“这不是我来这儿的原因。”
As the conversation continued, though, the developers expressed some cracks in their confidence. For instance, their company has been building apps exclusively for the iPhone for three years, but in the last two months it has also started building apps for Android systems.
但是多聊了一会儿后，这些开发者对苹果的信心出现的一些裂缝就显现出来。例如，他们的公司专门为iPhone开发应用已经有三年之久，但在过去两个月中，公司也已开始为Android系统开发应用了。
They found one thing particularly jarring in the keynote: Apple did not hew to its tradition of pairing hardware and software. Specifically, Apple introduced a program called Health — which helps consumers and doctors monitor health status, like heart rate or glucose levels — but did not also introduce a piece of hardware to measure those results. That is something the new smartwatch is rumored to do.
他们觉得，主旨演讲中有件事特别令人不安：苹果没有遵循其软硬结合的传统。具体来说，苹果公司推出了一个名为健康(Health)的计划——这有助于消费者和医生监测人们的健康状况，比如心脏率或血糖水平——但却没有推出一个硬件来测量这些指标。据说这是新的智能手表SmartWatch的功能。
“They just released the software,” said Mr. Zeluff, sounding surprised.
“他们只发布了软件，”泽卢夫说。听他口气，他对此感到吃惊。
“It’s something Steve wouldn’t have done,” Mr. Brown said. It’s an impossible comparison. But it’s the one that Mr. Cook is being held to, at least until he makes enough magic of his own.
“史蒂夫就不会这么干，”布朗说。这么比较没什么意义。但人们就是会把库克和乔布斯做比较，至少直到库克自己释放出足够多的神奇魔力那一天为止。