As the storied jewelry house’s first female design director, Francesca Amfitheatrof is imbuing modern luxury with an unexpected hint of bohemianism — perhaps the result of her recent move to Brooklyn.
身为赫赫有名的珠宝品牌的首位女性设计总监，弗朗西斯卡·安菲西亚特洛夫(Francesca Amfitheatrof)出人意料地将波西米亚元素代入现代奢侈品领域，这也许是她最近移居布鲁克林带来的灵感。
The sight, from across the street, of Francesca Amfitheatrof taking in the morning air on the upstairs balcony of her Brooklyn home — a grand, free-standing 1889 Romanesque Revival townhouse in the eclectic neighborhood of Clinton Hill — might almost be an apparition. Lissome and fair, with a profile that calls to mind a John Singer Sargent portrait, she suggests a vision from a bygone era, the original lady of the house. Yet despite her Old World elegance, Tiffany & Company’s first female design director is very much a modern woman. Her sonorous, hard-to-place accent is the fruit of an adventurous life steeped in art, culture and travel. (Her father, a Time magazine bureau chief of Russian-Italian parentage, toured the world for work, while her Italian mother did the same as a public relations executive at Valentino and Armani.) She has lived, at various times, in Tokyo, Rome, Moscow, Manhattan and, for many years until recently, London.
安菲西亚特洛夫在布鲁克林的新家是一栋雄伟独立的罗马复兴式联排别墅，建于1889年，位于风格多样的克林顿高地。她站在阳台上，沐浴着清晨的空气，从街对面看过去，她的身影仿若精灵。她长相柔美，拥有一副仿佛从约翰·辛格·沙金(John Singer Sargent)笔下的肖像画中浮现出的精致剪影，令人想起已经消逝的年代，这栋房子原本的女主人。尽管她有着旧世界的优雅，身为蒂芙尼公司第一位女设计总监的她是个十分现代的女性。她的口音圆润低沉，说不清来自何地，这源自她深深浸淫于艺术、文化和旅行之中的传奇人生（她的父亲是《时代》杂志的总编，有俄国和意大利血统；而意大利血统的母亲则曾担任华伦天奴和阿玛尼的公共关系主管，两人皆因工作关系长期穿梭于世界各地）。她先后在东京、罗马、莫斯科、曼哈顿生活过，还在伦敦居住了很多年，前不久才离开。
Her résumé, too, reflects the fluidity of the times. In addition to creating jewelry under her own name — clever mixed-media objects that interpret organic forms with droll humor and a dramatic sense of scale — Amfitheatrof has lent her skill set to the design of accessories collections for a host of other labels (eyewear for Marni, jewelry for Chanel and Fendi, silverware for Asprey, objects for Alessi) and to curating art shows and advising private collectors. She arrived in New York last fall after her appointment to Tiffany, where she now oversees a staff of 20 designers.
这种时间的流转也体现在她的履历里。安菲西亚特洛夫曾设计以她本人命名的珠宝系列，这一系列聪颖地使用了多种质材，混合了精巧自然的外观和有趣夸张的表现形式。除此之外，她还为众多其他品牌设计过时尚配件（玛尼的眼镜、香奈儿和芬迪的珠宝、爱丝普蕾的银器，艾烈希也是她的客户之一），同时还做艺术策展人，担任私人收藏家顾问等。去年秋天，她接受蒂芙尼的任命后来到纽约，目前在这里领导由20名设计师组成的工作团队。
At the time, Amfitheatrof, her husband, Ben Curwin, who works for a tech incubator, and their two children and two dogs had been happily ensconced in a four-story Victorian overlooking Hoxton Square in London. With the U.S. school year imminent, they opted to seek out a rental online; within a week, they’d signed a lease. “I didn’t know Brooklyn well at all,” she says, “but I wanted somewhere that had that feeling of East London. I’ve always been around artists and creative people.” To make the place homier, the couple added a few of their own things: books; some of Amfitheatrof’s designs, including a filigree chandelier fashioned from intricate metal pieces soldered together in the shape of a bird; and a painting of her paternal grandmother by her onetime suitor, the architect Gio Ponti.
当时，安菲西亚特洛夫与其就职于某技术创业园的丈夫本·科文(Ben Curwin)、他们的两个孩子以及两条狗幸福地生活在一栋维多利亚式的四层建筑内，从他们的居所可以俯瞰到伦敦霍克顿广场。随着美国新学年的临近，他们开始在网上寻找待租赁的住房，不到一周就签了租房协议。“我对布鲁克林一点也不熟悉，”她说，“但我希望新居所的感觉像伦敦东区一样，总有艺术家和充满创造力的人们环绕在我身边。” 为了使新房子更有家的感觉，夫妇俩在新居添加了自己偏爱的元素：书籍、一些安菲西亚特洛夫的作品，比如一个由精致复杂的金属片焊接而成，外形很像鸟儿的金银丝细工枝形吊灯，还有一幅由建筑师吉奥·庞帝(Gio Ponti)——安菲西亚特洛夫祖母早年的追求者为她祖母描画的肖像。
Reflecting her personal style, Amfitheatrof’s first collection for Tiffany, Tiffany T, offers what might be called a Brooklynized take on fine jewelry. Polished enough for a night on the town, it could also easily be worn on a stroll to the farmers’ market. “I like things that clash a bit,” she says. “I wanted to do a collection you can style together, so instead of going matchy matchy matchy, you can kind of choose from within it and feel quite confident in styling it yourself.”
安菲西亚特洛夫为蒂芙尼带来的第一个设计系列名为“蒂芙尼T”，它既反映了她的个人风格，也带有某种对“布鲁克林风”的尝试。这些首饰不仅能让你在城市的夜晚璀璨夺目，也可以陪伴你轻松享受在农贸市场的日常漫步。“我喜欢在风格上稍微有些冲突的元素，”她说，“我想给人们呈现一套颇具混搭风的首饰，这样人们就不必担心搭配问题，任选一件戴上就能充满自信地展现自己的风格。
The modern range of mix-and-matchable designs are laced with sly wit — one necklace uses a double-headed “T” to form a smile — and innovative robotics: Tennis bracelets and rings stretch and contract on railroad-like tracks, while modular linked necklaces twist and flex in all directions for a fluid effect. “It’s got a clever bit of engineering,” she says. “I’m a bit of a nerd like that.”
这一混搭感十足的现代系列处处彰显设计师的智慧和工艺的创新：双头字母T组成的笑脸出现在一条项链上，网球手链和指环在一个铁轨似的滑道上伸缩，可以往任何方向扭转和反弹的块状项链呈现出流动的效果。“这些细节借鉴了工程学的巧妙”，她说，“我有点理工科的书呆子气。”