In traditional narratives, Queen Maya Devi, the mother of Buddha, gave birth to him while holding on to a branch of a tree in a garden at Lumbini, in what is now Nepal. Accounts vary as to when this occurred, leaving uncertain the founding century of one of the world’s major religions.
根据传说，诞下佛陀之时，王后摩耶夫人(Maya Devi)攀住了蓝毗尼(Lumbini)一座花园内一棵树的枝桠，蓝毗尼位于今天的尼泊尔。佛陀的生年存在多个说法，全球主要宗教之一佛教的创立年代由此成了一个迄无定论的谜团。
Until now, archaeological evidence favored a date no earlier than the third century B.C., when the Emperor Asoka promoted the spread of Buddhism through South Asia, leaving a scattering of shrines and inscriptions to the man who became “the enlightened one.” A white temple on a gently sloping plateau at Lumbini, 20 miles from the border with India, draws hundreds of thousands of pilgrims each year to read a sandstone pillar documenting Asoka’s homage at the Buddha’s birthplace.
直到如今，考古证据支持的说法是，佛陀诞辰不会早于公元前三世纪，当时，阿育王(Emperor Asoka)在南亚推动佛教的传播，为成为了“觉悟者”的佛陀留下了星星点点的寺庙和铭文。在距离印度边境20英里（约合32公里）的蓝毗尼，有一座白色寺庙，它坐落在微微倾斜的高地上，每年都会吸引数以万计的朝拜者来观瞻一根砂岩柱子，上面记载了阿育王对佛陀诞生地的敬意。
But new excavations by archaeologists at Lumbini have uncovered evidence of a much earlier timber shrine and brick structures above it — all of which lay beneath the temple that is a Unesco World Heritage site long identified as the birthplace. Dating fragments of charcoal and grains of sand, researchers determined that the lower structures were erected as early as the sixth century B.C.
然而，考古学家新近在蓝毗尼进行的发掘工作已经发现了证据，显示寺庙所在地曾有一座年代久远得多的木构神祠和砖石建筑，所有这一切都位于被联合国教科文组织(Unesco)认定为世界遗产(World Heritage)的寺庙之下，长久以来，此地一直被认定为佛陀的出生地。根据沙粒和木炭的断代结果，研究人员断定，下部建筑最早是在公元前六世纪搭建的。
The international team of archaeologists said the lower structures were laid out on the same design as the more recent temple. The timber shrine even had an open space in the center that suggested a link to the Buddha’s nativity tradition. Deep tree roots in the center space may even have been from the tree his mother presumably held on to.
一个国际考古小组说，下部建筑的格局与年代更近的寺庙相同。木构神祠的中心地带甚至有一片敞开的空间，暗示它和佛陀的出生传说有关联。位于中心地带的深埋树根，甚至有可能来自传说中他母亲抓握过的那棵树。
The archaeologists, led by Robin A. E. Coningham of Durham University in England, reported the findings on Monday in an article published online in the December issue of the international journal Antiquity. This was, they said, “the first archaeological evidence regarding the date of the life of Buddha.”
周一，以英格兰杜伦大学(Durham University)罗宾·A·E·科宁厄姆(Robin A. E. Coningham)为首的考古学家在国际期刊《文物》(Antiquity)12月刊在线发表了一篇文章，公布了他们的考古发现。他们说，这是“首个有关佛陀生平年月的考古学证据”。
They also described the new line of research as having “the potential to provide yet more evidence for the earliest expressions of Buddhist architecture and ritual practice.”
他们还表示，新的研究路线“可能会为佛教建筑和仪式的最早形式提供更多证据”。
Concluding its report, Dr. Coningham’s group wrote that “the sequence at Lumbini is a microcosm for the development of Buddhism from a localized cult to a global religion.” The shrine, for example, was transformed from a localized timber temple into “a monumental Asokan-period temple and pillar complex inscribing it as a site of imperial pilgrimage.”
在报告的结尾，科宁厄姆博士领导的小组写道，“蓝毗尼的建造顺序是佛教从一个地方性宗教团体发展成一个全球性宗教的缩影。”比如，该寺曾是一座地方性的木构神庙，后来转化成了“一座阿育王时期的宏伟寺庙，配有显示它是一处帝国圣地的柱子”。
Before the sixth century B.C., the Lumbini site was apparently cultivated land. The postholes of the timber building were the first evidence of a shrine focused around a tree, Dr. Coningham said in a teleconference for reporters arranged by the National Geographic Society, which partly supported the research, along with Durham University and Stirling University in England.
公元前6世纪之前，蓝毗尼遗址所在的地方显然是耕地。科宁厄姆博士在国家地理学会(National Geographic Society)安排的记者电话会议上说，这座木建筑的柱坑是迄今发现的首个证据，表明此地曾有一座围绕一棵树建成的寺庙。和杜伦大学以及英格兰的斯特林大学(Stirling University)一样，国家地理学会也为此项研究提供了部分支持。
“These discoveries are very important to better understand the birthplace of the Buddha,” Ram Kumar Shrestha, Nepal’s minister of culture, tourism and civil aviation, said in a statement released by the archaeology team. “The government of Nepal will spare no effort to preserve this significant site.”
“这些发现对更好地了解佛陀出生地很重要，”尼泊尔负责文化、旅游和民用航空的部长拉姆·库马尔·什雷斯塔(Ram Kumar Shrestha)在这支考古队发表的一份声明中说，“尼泊尔政府将不遗余力地保护这一重要遗址。”
Although much is known of the Buddha’s teachings and half a billion people are Buddhists, there is little to document his life, Dr. Coningham said, except through textual sources and oral tradition. He said, “We thought, why not go back to archaeology to try to answer some of the questions about his birth?”
科宁厄姆博士说，尽管人们对佛陀的教义有很多了解，佛教徒也多达5亿，但除了文献来源和口头传说之外，几乎没有记录他生平的材料。他说，“我们想的是，为何不回归考古学，尝试回答一些和他的出生有关的问题？”