B. B. King, whose world-weary voice and wailing guitar lifted him from the cotton fields of Mississippi to a global stage and the apex of American blues, died Thursday in Las Vegas, The Associated Press reported. He was 89.
B·B·金(B. B. King)厌倦尘世般的嗓音与恍若哭泣的吉他令他从密西西比的棉花田走向世界舞台，登上美国布鲁斯的顶峰，周四他在拉斯维加斯逝世，享年89岁，美联社(The Associated Press)报道了他的死讯。
His death was reported to The A.P. by his attorney, Brent Bryson.
这一消息由他的律师布伦特·布里森(Brent Bryson)告知美联社。
Mr. King married country blues to big-city rhythms and created a sound instantly recognizable to millions: a stinging guitar with a shimmering vibrato, notes that coiled and leapt like an animal, and a voice that groaned and bent with the weight of lust, longing and lost love.
金将乡村布鲁斯与大都市的节奏融合起来，创造出一种独特的声音，成千上百万人一听之下便知是他：刺痛心灵的吉他声有着微微闪烁的颤音，音符如同野兽一般，时而盘踞、时而跳跃，呻吟般的人声满载着欲望、渴求与失去所爱的重负。
“I wanted to connect my guitar to human emotions,” Mr. King said in his autobiography, “Blues All Around Me” (1996), written with David Ritz.
“我希望自己的吉他能够与人类的情感联系起来，”B·B·金在自传《布鲁斯围绕着我》(Blues All Around Me)中写道，该书是他与大卫·里兹(David Ritz)合著的。
In performances, his singing and his solos flowed into each other as he wrung notes from the neck of his guitar, vibrating his hand as if it were wounded, his face a mask of suffering. Many of the songs he sang — like his biggest hit, “The Thrill Is Gone” (“I’ll still live on/But so lonely I’ll be”) — were poems of pain and perseverance.
在演出时，他的歌唱与吉他独奏融为一体，他在琴颈上用力绞出音符，手指颤抖，如同受伤一般，脸上蒙着悲痛欲绝的神情。他的很多歌曲都是关于痛苦与坚忍的诗篇——譬如他最受欢迎的金曲《激情已逝》(The Thrill Is Gone)，其中唱道“我会继续活下去，但我将如此孤独”。
The music historian Peter Guralnick once noted that Mr. King helped expand the audience for the blues through “the urbanity of his playing, the absorption of a multiplicity of influences, not simply from the blues, along with a graciousness of manner and willingness to adapt to new audiences and give them something they were able to respond to.”
音乐史学家彼得·格罗尼克(Peter Guralnick)曾经评价B·B·金“把演奏变得都市化，吸收了多种来源的影响，不仅仅局限在布鲁斯之内，他有着亲切和蔼的风度，乐于适应新的听众，并把他们能够理解的东西带给他们”，因此，金为布鲁斯带来了更广大的听众群。
B. B. stood for Blues Boy, a name he took with his first taste of fame in the 1940s. His peers were bluesmen like Muddy Waters and Howlin’ Wolf, whose nicknames fit their hard-bitten lives. But he was born a King, albeit in a sharecropper’s shack surrounded by dirt-poor laborers and wealthy landowners.
B·B·金名字中的“B·B”是代表“布鲁斯男孩”(Blues Boy)，是他在20世纪40年代刚刚成名时取的。与他同时代的布鲁斯乐手包括“泥水”(Muddy Waters)和“嚎狼”(Howlin’ Wolf)，这些绰号都是来自艰辛的生活。金亦是出生在佃农的小屋，身边都是穷困的农工与富有的地主，但他生下来就是“国王”。
Mr. King went out on the road and never came back after one of his first recordings reached the top of the rhythm-and-blues charts in 1951. He began in juke joints, country dance halls and ghetto nightclubs, playing 342 one-night stands in 1956 and 200 to 300 shows a year for a half-century thereafter, rising to concert halls, casino main stages and international acclaim.
1951年，金的早期录音之一登上了节奏布鲁斯排行榜榜首，从此他便走上了巡演之路，终生乐此不疲。他从点唱机酒吧、乡村舞厅和贫民区夜店起步，1956年曾做过342场演出，每一次的场地都不相同，此后长达半个世纪的时间里每年都演出200到300场，演出地点也来到了音乐厅和各大娱乐场所的主舞台，广受国际赞誉。
He was embraced by rock ’n’ roll fans of the 1960s and ’70s, who remained loyal as they grew older together. His playing influenced many of the most successful rock guitarists of the era, including Eric Clapton and Jimi Hendrix.
20世纪60年代和70年代的摇滚乐歌迷们热爱他，随着年龄增长，他们仍对他保持着忠诚。他的演奏影响了那个时代很多最重要的摇滚吉他手，埃里克·克莱普顿(Eric Clapton)和吉米·亨德里克斯(Jimi Hendrix)也在其中。
Mr. King considered a 1968 performance at the Fillmore West, the San Francisco rock palace, to have been the moment of his commercial breakthrough, he told a public-television interviewer in 2003. A few years earlier, he recalled, an M.C. in an elegant Chicago club had introduced him thus: “O.K., folks, time to pull out your chitlins and your collard greens, your pigs’ feet and your watermelons, because here is B. B. King.” It had infuriated him.
金本人认为1968年在旧金山摇滚圣地西费尔默剧场的演出是他在商业上取得重大突破的关键时刻，2003年，他对一个公共电视台的采访者讲述了当时的情形。他回忆，在费尔默演出几年前，他曾在一个体面的芝加哥俱乐部演出，主持人介绍他说，“好吧伙计们，拿出你们的猪肠和甘蓝菜，拿出你们的猪脚和西瓜（以上都是南方黑人农民的典型食品，这里有歧视涵义——译注），因为B·B·金来了。”这令金非常愤怒。
When he saw “long-haired white people” lining up outside the Fillmore, he said, he told his road manager, “I think they booked us in the wrong place.” Then the promoter Bill Graham introduced him to the sold-out crowd: “Ladies and gentlemen, I bring you the chairman of the board, B. B. King.”
然而在费尔默，他却看到“留长头发的白人”在剧场外面排队，他对巡演经纪人说，“我觉得他们给咱们订错场子了。”后来演出承办者比尔·格雷厄姆(Bill Graham)对令整场座无虚席的观众介绍他出场时说：“女士们先生们，我向你们介绍今天的董事长，B·B·金。”
“Everybody stood up, and I cried,” Mr. King said. “That was the beginning of it.”
“所有人都起立鼓掌，我哭了，”金说，“那成了一切的开始。”
By his 80th birthday he was a millionaire many times over. He owned a mansion in Las Vegas, a closet full of embroidered tuxedoes and smoking jackets, a chain of nightclubs bearing his name (including a popular room on West 42nd Street in Manhattan) and the personal and professional satisfaction of having endured.
到80岁生日的时候，他的财富已经数倍于百万美元。他在拉斯维加斯拥有一栋宅邸，衣橱里装满有着刺绣图案的晚礼服和吸烟装，他还拥有以他的名字冠名的连锁夜总会（曼哈顿西42街就有一家，颇受欢迎）。长久以来，无论是个人生活还是职业生涯都令他心满意足。
Through it all he remained with the great love of his life, his guitar. He told the tale a thousand times: He was playing a dance hall in Twist, Ark., in the early 1950s when two men got into a fight and knocked over a kerosene stove. Mr. King fled the blaze — and then remembered his $30 guitar. He ran into the burning building to rescue it.
但他的毕生至爱仍然是他的吉他。他曾千百次地讲起这个故事：50年代初，他在阿肯色州特维斯特的一家舞厅里演出，台下两个男人打了起来，砸倒了一只煤油炉，金从火场里逃出，想起自己价值30美元（约合186元人民币）的吉他还在里面，他便冲进了着火的房子救吉他。
He learned thereafter that the fight had been about a woman named Lucille. For the rest of his life, Mr. King addressed his guitars — big Gibsons, curved like a woman’s hips — as Lucille.
后来他才知道，这两个男人是为一个名叫露西尔(Lucille)的女人大打出手。此后终其一生，金都把自己的吉他叫做露西尔——他使用的是大号吉普森吉他，琴身曲线与女人的臀部颇有几分相似。
He married twice, unsuccessfully, and was legally single from 1966 onward; by his own account he fathered 15 children with 15 women. But a Lucille was always at his side.
他结过两次婚，都以失败告终，从1966年起，他在法律上就是单身了。他说自己与15个女人生过15个孩子。但是露西尔始终陪伴在侧。
Riley B. King (the middle initial apparently did not stand for anything) was born on Sept. 16, 1925, to Albert and Nora Ella King, both sharecroppers, in Berclair, a Mississippi hamlet outside the small town of Itta Bena. His memories of the Depression included the sound of sanctified gospel music, the scratch of 78-r.p.m. blues records, the sweat of dawn-to-dusk work and the sight of a black man lynched by a white mob.
赖利·B·金（Riley B. King，一开始中间的这个“B”不代表任何意义）于1925年9月16日出生在密西西比一个名叫伯克莱尔(Berclair)的小村庄，附近有一个名叫埃塔·比纳(Itta Bena)的小镇，他的父母艾尔伯特·金和诺拉·艾拉·金(Albert and Nora Ella King)都是佃农。小赖利对“大萧条时代”(Depression)的记忆包括净化心灵的福音音乐、78转布鲁斯唱片的刮擦声、从早到晚工作流淌的汗水，以及亲眼目睹一群白人暴徒私刑处死一个黑人的景象。
By early 1940 Mr. King’s mother was dead and his father was gone. He was 14 and on his own, “sharecropping an acre of cotton, living on a borrowed allowance of $2.50 a month,” wrote Dick Waterman, a blues scholar. “When the crop was harvested, Riley ended his first year of independence owing his landlord $7.54.”
1940年初，金的母亲去世了，他的父亲离开了他。14岁的金无依无靠，“在棉花地里当佃农，靠每个月2.5美元的借贷津贴过活，”布鲁斯研究者迪克·沃特曼(Dick Waterman)写道，“那年庄稼收成的时候，赖利结束了第一年的独立生活，从地主手里领了7.54美元。”
In November 1941 came a revelation: “King Biscuit Time” went on the air, broadcasting on KFFA, a radio station in Helena, Ark. It was the first radio show to feature the Mississippi Delta blues, and young Riley King heard it on his lunch break at the plantation. A largely self-taught guitarist, he now knew what he wanted to be when he grew up: a musician on the air.
1941年11月是一个启示般的时刻：阿肯色州海伦娜的KFFA广播电台开始播放“国王饼干时间”节目。这是第一个以密西西比三角洲布鲁斯为主的广播节目，年轻的赖利·金在种植园吃午饭休息的时候听到了它。作为一名自学成才的吉他手，他那时就知道了自己长大以后想干什么——广播里的音乐家。
The King Biscuit show featured Rice Miller, a primeval bluesman and one of two performers who worked under the name Sonny Boy Williamson. After serving in the Army and marrying his first wife, Martha Denton, Mr. King, then 22, went to seek him out in Memphis, looking for work. Memphis and its musical hub, Beale Street, lay 130 miles north of his birthplace, and it looked like a world capital to him.
“国王饼干”节目的主题是赖斯·米勒(Rice Miller)，他是一位最早期的布鲁斯乐手，是曾经使用过“桑尼·男孩·威廉姆森”(Sonny Boy Williamson)这个艺名的两人之一。金后来参了军，退伍那年22岁，娶了自己的第一任妻子玛莎·丹顿(Martha Denton)，他到孟菲斯去找赖斯·米勒，打算找一份工作。孟菲斯和它的音乐中枢比尔街距离金的出生地有130英里远（约合209公里），对他来说，那里就是世界的都会。
Mr. Miller had two performances booked that night, one in Memphis and one in Mississippi. He handed the lower-paying nightclub job to Mr. King. It paid $12.50.
他到达孟菲斯当晚，米勒原本预定了两场演出，一场在孟菲斯，一场在密西西比。他把报酬较低的那场夜总会演出让给了金，报酬是12.5美元。
Mr. King was making about $5 a day on the plantation. He never returned to his tractor.
金在种植园的工作是5美元一天，他再也不愿意回去开拖拉机了。
He was a hit, and quickly became a popular disc jockey playing the blues on a Memphis radio station, WDIA. “Before Memphis,” he wrote in his autobiography, “I never even owned a record player. Now I was sitting in a room with a thousand records and the ability to play them whenever I wanted. I was the kid in the candy store, able to eat it all. I gorged myself.”
他的演出大获成功，很快在孟菲斯的WDIA广播电台当上了颇受欢迎的音乐节目主持人。“去孟菲斯之前，”他在自传中写道，“我连唱机都没有，现在我坐在这里，屋子里有一千张唱片，我可以想放哪张就放哪张，我就像进了糖果店的孩子，可以把所有东西都吃掉。我就狼吞虎咽起来。”
Memphis had heard five decades of the blues: country sounds from the Delta, barrelhouse boogie-woogie, jumps and shuffles and gospel shouts. He made it all his own. From records he absorbed the big-band sounds of Count Basie, the rollicking jump blues of Louis Jordan, the electric-guitar styles of the jazzman Charlie Christian and the bluesman T-Bone Walker.
孟菲斯拥有50年的布鲁斯历史：来自三角洲的乡村之音、小酒馆布基-伍基、跳跃布鲁斯、曳步舞布鲁斯与福音叫喊布鲁斯。金把它们全都收入了囊中。从那些唱片里，他学到了贝西伯爵(Count Basie)的大乐队之音、路易·乔丹(Louis Jordan)欢快的跳跃布鲁斯，以及爵士乐手查理·克里斯蒂安(Charlie Christian)和布鲁斯乐手T骨·沃尔克(T-Bone Walker)的电吉他风格。
On the air in Memphis, Mr. King was nicknamed the Beale Street Blues Boy. That became Blues Boy, which became B. B. In December 1951, two years after arriving in Memphis, Mr. King released a single, “Three O’Clock Blues,” which reached No. 1 on the rhythm-and-blues charts and stayed there for 15 weeks.
在孟菲斯电台工作的日子里，金的绰号是“比尔街布鲁斯男孩”。后来又变成了“布鲁斯男孩”，再后来又变成了“B·B”。来到孟菲斯两年后，1951年12月，金发行了一支单曲《三点钟布鲁斯》(Three O’Clock Blues)，它登上节奏布鲁斯排行榜首位，停留了15周之久。
He began a tour of the biggest stages a bluesman could play: the Apollo Theater in Harlem, the Howard Theater in Washington, the Royal Theater in Baltimore. By the time his wife divorced him after eight years, he was playing 275 one-night stands a year on the so-called chitlin’ circuit.
他的巡演从哈莱姆区的阿波罗剧院(Apollo Theater)、华盛顿的霍华德剧院(Howard Theater)与巴尔的摩的皇家剧院(Royal Theater)开始，这些都是当时的布鲁斯乐手所能登上的最大舞台。在他结婚八年的妻子与他离婚时，他已每年在所谓的“猪肠院线”（当时黑人乐手巡演的路线，除上述几个大的剧院，多为只有黑人观众的小场所——译注）演出275场。
There were hard times when the blues fell out of fashion with young black audiences in the early 1960s. Mr. King never forgot being booed at the Royal by teenagers who cheered the sweeter sounds of Sam Cooke.
60年代初，当布鲁斯在年轻黑人听众中不再流行时，他曾有过艰难的时光。金永远不会忘记在皇家剧场被台下的青少年观众起哄的经历，他们喜欢声音更甜美的山姆·库克(Sam Cooke)。
“They didn’t know about the blues,” he said 40 years after the fact. “They had been taught that the blues was the bottom of the totem pole, done by slaves, and they didn’t want to think along those lines.”
“他们根本不了解布鲁斯，”40年后，他说，“他们只是被教育说，布鲁斯是来自传统最底层的声音，是奴隶的音乐，他们不愿朝着这种方向去想。”
Mr. King’s second marriage, to Sue Hall, also lasted eight years, ending in divorce in 1966. He responded in 1969 with his best-known recording, “The Thrill Is Gone,” a minor-key blues about having loved and lost. It was co-written and originally recorded in 1951 by another blues singer, Roy Hawkins, but Mr. King made it his own.
金的第二任妻子是苏·霍尔(Sue Hall)，两人也同样维持了八年婚姻关系，于1966年离婚。1969年，他以自己最著名的一曲《激情已逝》作为回应，这是一首小调布鲁斯，唱的是曾经深爱与失去所爱。它是另一位布鲁斯歌手罗伊·霍金斯(Roy Hawkins)于1951年与他人合写并最初录制的，但金把它变成了自己的名曲。
The success of “The Thrill Is Gone” coincided with a surge in the popularity of the blues with a young white audience. Mr. King began playing folk festivals and college auditoriums, rock shows and resort clubs, and appearing on “The Tonight Show.”
《激情已逝》的成功，正好赶上了布鲁斯音乐在年轻白人听众中的风靡。金开始在民谣音乐节和大学礼堂、摇滚乐演出和著名俱乐部演出，后来又在“今夜秀”(The Tonight Show)电视节目中登场。
Though he never had another hit that big, he had more than four decades of the road before him. He eventually played the world — Russia and China as well as Europe and Japan. His schedule around his 81st birthday, in September 2006, included nine cities over two weeks in Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, France and Luxembourg. Despite health problems, he maintained a busy touring schedule until 2014.
尽管他后来再也没有一首金曲像《激情已逝》那样受欢迎，四十年多来，金一直在到处巡演，最终走遍了全世界——从欧洲到日本，从俄罗斯到中国。2006年9月，他度过了自己的81岁生日，那个月他在两个星期内去了丹麦、比利时、荷兰、德国、法国和卢森堡的九个城市。尽管有健康问题，他也一直保持着繁忙的巡演日程，直到2014年。
In addition to winning more than a dozen Grammy Awards (including a lifetime achievement award), having a star on Hollywood Boulevard and being inducted in both the Rock and Roll and Blues Halls of Fame, Mr. King was among the recipients of the Kennedy Center Honors in 1995 and was given the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2006, awards rarely associated with the blues. In 1999, in a public conversation with William Ferris, chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, Mr. King recounted how he came to sing the blues.
他一生获得过十几个格莱美奖（包括一个终身成就奖），在好莱坞大道拥有一颗星，进驻了摇滚名人堂与布鲁斯名人堂，此外，1995年他还曾经获得肯尼迪中心荣誉奖(Kennedy Center Honors)，2006年获得总统自由勋章(Presidential Medal of Freedom)，很少有布鲁斯乐手能获得这两项荣誉。1999年，与国家人文基金(National Endowment for the Humanities)的主席威廉·费里斯(William Ferris)公开对话时，金追忆了自己是怎样开始唱布鲁斯的。
“Growing up on the plantation there in Mississippi, I would work Monday through Saturday noon,” he said. “I’d go to town on Saturday afternoons, sit on the street corner, and I’d sing and play.
“我在密西西比的种植园长大，从星期一开始工作直到星期六中午，”他说。“星期六下午我会到镇上去，坐在街拐角，自弹自唱。
“I’d have me a hat or box or something in front of me. People that would request a gospel song would always be very polite to me, and they’d say: ‘Son, you’re mighty good. Keep it up. You’re going to be great one day.’ But they never put anything in the hat.
“我在面前放一顶帽子或者一个箱子之类的东西。路过点唱福音歌曲的人总是彬彬有礼，说，‘小伙子，你真是太棒了。坚持下去，有一天你会出人头地的’。但他们从不往我帽子里放一个子儿。