SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea used multiple-rocket launchers off its east coast on Saturday to fire three short-range missiles that could strike United States military bases deep in South Korea, officials in Seoul said.
韩国首尔——韩国官员说，朝鲜周六在该国东海沿岸使用多管火箭发射器发射了三枚短程导弹，这些导弹的射程能够达到位于韩国纵深的美国军事基地。
The launches were the North’s first rocket tests since two intercontinental ballistic missile, or ICBM, were fired last month. By resuming the tests, North Korea defied repeated urgings from the United States and South Korea to stop weapons trials and other provocations to pave the way for dialogue.
这是朝鲜于上月发射了两枚洲际弹道导弹（简称ICBM）之后的首次火箭测试。朝鲜恢复火箭测试是对美国和韩国敦促其停止武器试验和其他挑衅、为对话铺平道路的蔑视。
The United States Pacific Command said that one of the three ballistic missiles had blown up immediately after blastoff, but that two others had traveled about 155 miles before splashing down.
美国太平洋司令部表示，这次发射的三枚弹道导弹之一在升空不后就爆炸了，但另外两枚在飞行了约250公里之后坠入大海。
That would be far enough to reach major South Korean and American military bases, including those near the city of Pyeongtaek, about 60 miles south of Seoul. The range would also be sufficient to reach Seongju, a South Korean town where the United States has begun installing an advanced missile-defense system known as Thaad.
这个距离足以达到韩国和美国的主要军事基地，包括位于首尔以南100公里左右的平泽市附近的军事基地。这个距离也足以到达韩国城市星州，美国已开始在那里安装一个名为“萨德”的先进导弹防御系统。
The North has often tested missiles with similar scope, but the use of a multiple-tube launcher shows an advance in capability.
朝鲜已经经常测试类似射程的导弹，但多管发射器的使用显示了该国能力的进步。
The Pacific Command previously said that two of the North Korean missiles had “failed in flight.” But that assessment was later retracted, and the amended view agreed with the South Korean military’s evaluation of the distance the projectiles had traveled.
美国太平洋司令部此前曾说，这次发射的导弹中有两枚在“飞行中失败”，但后来撤回了该说法，修正后的说法与韩国军方对导弹射程的评估一致。
The three missiles were 300-millimeter rockets fired from a multiple-tube launcher, said Yoon Young-chan, a spokesman at the Blue House, South Korea’s presidential office, where the country’s National Security Council met on Saturday to discuss the tests.
韩国青瓦台总统府发言人尹永灿（Yoon Young-chan，音）说，这三枚导弹是口径300毫米的火箭，是用多管发射器发射的。韩国国家安全委员会周六在青瓦台开会讨论了这次测试。
North Korea has alarmed South Korean defense officials before with tests of its 300-millimeter rockets and displays of an eight-tube version of the system during military parades. The officials say the North has developed the multiple-tube launchers because they are cheaper than short-range, Scud-type ballistic missiles and because they enable more projectiles to be fired.
朝鲜以前测试过口径300毫米的火箭，还在阅兵式上展示过八管的发射器系统，这些东西都曾引起韩国国防官员的担心。韩国官员说，朝鲜研发多管发射器，因为它们比短程飞毛腿型弹道导弹的成本更低，也因为它们能够发生枚数更多的导弹。
North Korea keeps thousands of rocket launchers, as well as long-range artillery pieces, along the border with the South, threatening to rain down a “sea of fire” on South Korean cities and islands near the border. The old 240-millimeter rockets have an estimated range of 37 miles, putting Seoul, a capital with 10 million people, within reach.
朝鲜在沿着朝韩边界线的地方部署了数千个火箭发射器和远程火炮，威胁要让韩国城市和边界线附近的岛屿变成一片“海火”。口径240毫米的老型火箭的射程估计有60公里，拥有1000万人口的首尔在这个射程之内。
Kim Dong-yub, a defense analyst at the Institute for Far Eastern Studies at Kyungnam University in Seoul, said the tests on Saturday appeared to be aimed at expanding the strike range.
首尔庆南大学(Kyungnam University)远东研究所的国防分析师金东烨（Kim Dong-yub，音）说，周六测试的目的看来是为了延长射程。
Nevertheless, the nature of the tests prompted some relief in the region.
尽管如此，这次测试的性质还是让该地区的紧张气氛得到一些缓和。
The missiles flew to the northeast, not toward Guam, home to major United States Air Force and Navy bases. North Korea threatened to launch ballistic missiles in a “ring of fire” around Guam after President Trump threatened to hit the North with “fire and fury” if it persisted with its development of ICBMs.
因为导弹是朝着东北方向、而不是美国空军和海军基地所在的关岛方向飞行的。朝鲜曾威胁要向关岛附近水域发射弹道导弹，将该岛置于“火环”之中。那之前，美国总统特朗普曾威胁说，如果朝鲜坚持发展ICBM的话，美国将让朝鲜置于“炮火和怒火”之下。
South Korea did not issue its usual condemnatory statement against the tests. In Tokyo, the chief cabinet secretary, Yoshihide Suga, said the missiles did not fall in Japanese waters or pose a threat to his nation’s safety. White House officials said that Mr. Trump had been briefed on the tests but did not immediately have any further comment.
韩国没有对这次测试发表通常的谴责声明。日本内阁官房长官菅义伟在东京表示，这次的导弹没有落入日本领海，也不会对日本的安全构成威胁。白宫官员说，已向特朗普通报了这次测试的情况，总统没有马上对测试做出进一步的评论。
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson this past week credited the North with showing some restraint by not launching a missile since the ICBM test in July, and he had expressed hope that the easing of tension could lead to dialogue.
美国国务卿雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)曾在过去的一周里称赞朝鲜表现了某种克制，因为自从该国7月份测试了ICBM以来，还未曾发射过导弹，蒂勒森还对紧张局势的缓和可能导致对话表示了希望。
The North’s latest tests appeared to be a response to the joint military drills that the United States and South Korea started on Monday. The North calls such annual drills a rehearsal for invasion and often lashes out with weapons tests and military exercises of its own.
朝鲜最近的这次测试似乎是对美国和韩国周一开始的联合军事演习的回应。朝鲜称美韩的年度军演是排练入侵，并经常用武器测试和自己的军事演习来表示回击。
North Korea’s state media reported on Saturday that the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, had guided an amphibious landing and aerial strike exercise by his military, which involved multiple-rocket launchers and targets modeled after South Korean islands near the sea border. In 2010, the North launched a deadly artillery attack on a South Korean island.
朝鲜官方媒体周六报道说，该国领导人金正恩指导他的军队进行了两栖登陆和空中打击演习，演习使用了多管火箭发射器，模拟目标包括朝韩海上边界附近的岛屿。2010年，朝鲜曾对一个韩国岛屿发动过致命炮击。
Mr. Kim also visited a weapons development institute in the past week. Photographs published in the North’s state media from that visit suggested that North Korea was developing new missiles. They also seemed to show that the country was using special fiber to build lighter-weight composite rocket casings.
金正恩也曾在过去的一周里视察了一个武器研究所。朝鲜国家媒体发表的这次视察的图片暗示，朝鲜正在研发新型导弹。图片似乎还显示，该国正在使用特殊纤维来为火箭制造更轻的复合材料外壳。
Such casings might allow North Korean missiles to fly farther, according to an analysis by Michael Elleman, a missiles expert.
据导弹专家迈克尔·埃勒曼(Michael Elleman)分析，这种外壳可能会让朝鲜的导弹飞得更远。