JPMorgan Chase has called. So has Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley. Joe Tsai’s phone is ringing off the hook these days, and you would be forgiven if you have never heard of him.
摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)打来了电话。高盛(Goldman Sachs )和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)也打来了。蔡崇信的电话机这些天响个不停，不过，如果你没听说过他的名字，倒是可以原谅。
Mr. Tsai is not even a chief executive, but he has become arguably the most sought-after executive in the world by Wall Street for one reason: He holds the keys to what will most likely be the largest initial public offering of this generation — Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant.
蔡崇信甚至不是一位首席执行官，但他可以说是世界上最受华尔街追逐的执行官，原因是：他掌握着可能是这一代最大的一笔首次公开募股(IPO)的秘器——中国的电商巨头阿里巴巴。
Alibaba dwarfs Amazon.com by sales volume — $160 billion in 2012 compared with $86 billion for Amazon, according to RetailNet Group. Its I.P.O. could value the company at more than $150 billion, more than the I.P.O. value of either Facebook or Google. Along with that — and this is where Wall Street comes in — will come billions of dollars in fees for the lucky underwriters.
阿里巴巴在销售额上远远超过亚马逊(Amazon.com)，据调研公司RetailNet Group的数据，阿里巴巴2012年的销售额为1600亿美元(约合9600亿元人民币)，亚马逊的是860亿美元。阿里巴巴的IPO将会把该公司的估值定在1500亿美元以上，高于Facebook或谷歌(Google)当年IPO的市值。随之而来的是数十亿美元的手续费将落入某些幸运承销商之手的问题，这才是华尔街所关心的。
It is Mr. Tsai, a Taiwanese-born former lawyer who was educated at Yale, and not Alibaba’s more famous founder, Jack Ma, who is making the big decisions on the I.P.O. And that has made him Mr. Popularity among the investment banking elite.
为阿里巴巴的IPO作重大决定的人是出生于台湾、在耶鲁受过教育、曾是职业律师的蔡崇信，不是该公司更著名的创始人马云。这让蔡崇信成为投资银行高层眼中的大红人。
“Well, it always feels very good when people say that they love you and they want to talk to you,” Mr. Tsai, who is executive vice chairman, said in a rare interview. Still, he tried to play down the offering. “The I.P.O. is just one milestone and the company continues. There’s a lot of life after an I.P.O.”
“当然，人们说他们喜欢你，想和你谈谈，总会让你感觉很好，”他在一次少有的采访中这样说，蔡崇信是阿里巴巴集团的执行副主席。尽管如此，他不想把这次首次公开募股太当回事。“IPO只是个里程碑，公司还要继续下去。IPO之后还有很多事要做。”
Alibaba’s I.P.O. is seen as a crucial inflection point for homegrown innovation in China and could presage a wave of new attention on China’s other technology companies, like Tencent.
对中国的自主创新来说，阿里巴巴的IPO被看作是一个关键的转折点，可能预示着人们对中国其他技术公司（比如腾讯）的一轮新关注。
To put Alibaba’s size in perspective, consider a huge shopping day in November: More than 300 million people visited Alibaba’s websites, and 50 million of them made a purchase. When all was said and done, that day generated 158 million packages to be delivered.
要尽量恰当地解释阿里巴巴的规模，需要考虑11月份的一个大规模购物日：那天有超过3亿的人访问了阿里巴巴网站，其中有5000万人买了东西。说到底，那一天产生的要派送的包裹就有1.58亿个。
Strangely enough, the I.P.O. is critical to the future success or failure of Yahoo and its chief executive, Marissa Mayer. Yahoo owns 24 percent of Alibaba, a stake it bought in 2005 under Jerry Yang, the company’s founder. Yahoo’s shares have risen 107 percent over the last year in large part because Alibaba’s valuation has skyrocketed.
足以令人奇怪的是，这次IPO对雅虎(Yahoo)公司及其首席执行官玛丽莎·梅耶尔(Marissa Mayer)的未来成败来说至关重要。雅虎持有阿里巴巴24%的股份，是公司创始人杨致远(Jerry Yang)担任雅虎首席执行官期间于2005年购入的。去年，雅虎的股价上涨了107%，大部分得益于阿里巴巴估值的剧增。
The I.P.O. is also important to Mr. Tsai personally; his shares in the company make him worth nearly $2 billion on paper.
这次IPO对蔡崇信个人来说也很重要；他拥有的阿里巴巴股份让他的身价在纸面上接近20亿美元。
It is a long way from when Mr. Ma first offered him the job in 1999. “I can only pay you $50 a month. Will you still join me?” Mr. Ma recalled about that meeting. “When he said he wanted to join us, I was very surprised.”
这与1999年马云首次拉他入伙时相比是天壤之别。马云回忆当时的会面说，“我只能付你一个月50美元。你还愿意加入吗？当他说愿意时，我很吃惊。”
Mr. Tsai, who turns 50 this month, had worked as an associate at Sullivan & Cromwell in the early 1990s and then became a private-equity investor at the Swedish investment company Investor. Mr. Ma told him to think the job over and invited him on a trip.
这个月将步入50岁的蔡崇信，20世纪90年代初曾在苏利文与克伦威尔律师事务所(Sullivan & Cromwell)担任律师，后成为瑞典投资公司Investor的私募基金投资人。马云叫他仔细考虑一下入伙的问题，并邀请他参加了一次旅行。
“We went to Silicon Valley for a week. We were rejected by all of the venture capitalists,” Mr. Ma said. “I asked, ‘You still want to join?’ ”
马云说，“我们在硅谷跑了一周，被所有的风险投资家拒绝了。我问他，‘你还要入伙吗’？”
Mr. Ma said Mr. Tsai’s wife, Clara, who was pregnant at the time, asked to visit the company in Hangzhou before her husband committed. Mr. Ma said she told him: “I want to see it because my husband is crazy. If I agree with him, then I am crazy. But if I don’t agree, he will hate me his whole life.”
马云说，蔡崇信的妻子吴明华当时怀着孕，她想在丈夫决定入伙前去杭州看看公司。马云说，她告诉他：“我要去看看公司，因为我丈夫有点疯。如果我同意他的决定，那我也疯了。但是如果我不同意，他会恨我一辈子。”
It was the lottery ticket of a lifetime. Mr. Tsai, who is the detail man to Mr. Ma’s vision, helped broker a series of transactions that turned the company into a juggernaut. Mr. Ma explained their partnership: “We are very different people. I am a grass-roots person, and he’s well-trained, disciplined and very smart.”
那是一张千载难逢的彩票。相对于马云的眼光来说，蔡崇信是个注重细节的人，他帮助做成了一系列的交易，把公司变得极为壮大。马云这样解释他们的伙伴关系：“我们是很不一样的人。我是草根，他受过良好的训练，做事有条不紊，而且极为聪明。”
Mr. Tsai said he was inspired to leave the staid legal world and pursue investing and entrepreneurship after a meeting with some Goldman Sachs bankers when he was a lawyer at Sullivan & Cromwell.
蔡崇信说，他在苏利文与克伦威尔律师事务所工作期间，曾参加过一次和高盛银行家一起的会，受到启发，决定离开古板的法律行业，投身于投资和创企事业。
“I went to a meeting — this is during a time when a Goldman partnership still meant something real before the I.P.O. — and Goldman was setting up an offshore partnership,” he explained. “For tax reasons, it had to be set up in the Cayman Islands,” he continued.
“我去参加了一个会，那还是在高盛合伙人这个名称在IPO之前仍具有真实意义的时候，当时高盛正在帮助成立一个海外合伙人公司，”他解释说，“由于税收的原因，公司必须设在开曼群岛。”
The Goldman bankers were instructed that they needed to have a real operation in the Caymans to make the deal work, he said. There was “this young guy in the corner, he’s kind of slouched over in his chair. He’s like, ‘Yeah, I guess I’ll be moving to the Caymans to run this thing.’ He’s like a 27-year-old, and I was 27 or 28 at the time.” The lead lawyer, he said, told them, “We need to have some more senior people.” Mr. Tsai continued with the punch line, “The guy is like, ‘I’m a partner.’ It’s the 27-year-old guy. That kind of struck me.”
他说，当时高盛银行家被告知，合伙公司需要在开曼群岛有真正的操作才行。“角落里有个年轻人，他懒洋洋地瘫坐在椅子上，漫不经心地说‘好吧，我估计我得搬到开曼群岛去操作这事儿了。’他大概是27岁，我当时也是27或28岁，”蔡崇信说，主要负责的律师对他们说，“我们需要些更有资历的人。”蔡崇信接下来说了最关键的那句话，“那家伙开口了，‘我就是合伙人。’就是那个27岁的家伙。这有点让我震惊。”
Now, of course, Goldman is calling him. But part of Mr. Tsai’s job is to keep the hype of an I.P.O. from warping the company’s culture.
当然，现在是高盛在给他打电话。但是，蔡崇信的一个职责就是不让IPO的炒作扭曲了公司的文化。
“Everybody’s personal financial economics are tied up in the company, so obviously everybody will do the math in their head and say, ‘I own this many shares,’ ” he said. “Nothing makes me more happy than seeing our employees improving their own personal situation, because that’s why you come to work every day. The negative part of it is people become a little bit complacent.”
他说，“每个人的个人财经都跟公司的绑在一起，所以显然每个人都会在脑子里算一下说，‘我有这么多股份。’看到我们公司的员工改善他们个人的状况，没有什么比这更能让我高兴的了，因为这就是人每天要工作的原因。不好的地方是，人们会变得有点安于现状。”
He is also trying to keep all the bankers in check. When he helped take a subsidiary public a couple of years ago, “I said to the bankers, ‘You all have to cooperate and work with each other.’ I don’t want to have an I.P.O. where bankers are trying to stab each other in the back, which they tend to do. And the second thing is no disruption to the business because we don’t want people to obsess over an I.P.O.”
他也想管住所有的银行家。几年前，他在帮一个下属公司上市时，“我对那些银行家说，‘你们都必须互相合作、一起工作。’我不想把一个IPO搞成银行家们相互背后捅刀子的那种，而他们倾向于那样做。再有就是不能干扰公司业务，因为我们不想让人们过分痴迷于IPO。”
At the moment, it is unclear when Alibaba’s offering may come. Mr. Tsai said that while he worked on it for much of 2013, the company had hit the pause button, and the I.P.O. might not happen as quickly as some might expect this year. “We didn’t formally kick off any process,” he said, continuing the speculation that the banks and exchanges are playing.
阿里巴巴的股票发行什么时候开始目前还不清楚。蔡崇信说，虽然他2013年大部分时间都在忙这件事，但公司暂缓了行动，这次IPO可能不会像一些人今年期待的那样，来得那么快。他说，“我们还没有开始任何正式程序。”这让银行和交易所的猜测会继续下去。
One reason for the delay is that last fall, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange turned down Alibaba’s plan to list the company there. Its rules prohibit corporate structures that let minority shareholders preserve control of companies, and Alibaba’s founders want to remain in control of the company. Their proposed structure, while unusual in Hong Kong, was an effort to model the company after rivals like Google and Facebook, which remain tightly controlled by their founders.
推迟IPO的一个原因是，去年秋，香港交易所(Hong Kong Stock Exchange)拒绝了阿里巴巴的上市申请。港交所的规定禁止那种让少数股东控制企业的公司结构，而阿里巴巴的创始人希望能继续控制公司。他们提出的合伙人结构在香港很少见，那是因为他们想把阿里巴巴做成像谷歌和Facebook这些竞争对手那样的公司，这些公司仍在创始人的严格控制之下。
The deal’s rejection has become a flash point for a global competition among stock exchanges and countries.
港交所拒绝阿里巴巴的交易一事点燃了交易所和各国展开全球竞争的烽火。
Mr. Tsai believes that the board of the Hong Kong exchange turned down the offering with a “moral” argument that Alibaba’s structure wasn’t democratic enough.
蔡崇信觉得，港交所拒绝阿里巴巴的上市申请是出于一种“道德”考虑，认为阿里巴巴的结构不够民主。
“Nothing can be more commercial than an I.P.O. This is not a time or a place to really talk about morality,” he said. “We simply asked for a structure where a group of management that we call the partners have a high degree of influence over the board, and that’s not unusual in other places.”
“没有比IPO更商业的东西了。这不是一个真正谈论道德的时间或地点，”他说，“我们只是想保留一种结构，能让我们称之为合伙人的管理层对董事会具有高度的影响力，这在其他地方并不少见。”
Indeed, in the United States, such structures have become the norm, though some investors have criticized the practice of special shares.
的确，这种模式在美国已经成为常态，虽然一些投资者批评特殊股权的做法。
Mr. Tsai said he was worried that Hong Kong was falling behind the rest of the world and what it might mean for its future.
蔡崇信说，他担心香港落在了世界其他地方的后面，也担心这可能给其未来带来的影响。
“I think for the whole Hong Kong economy to kind of reshape itself, they really need to refocus on technology, on what’s new,” he said.
他说，“我认为，就整个香港经济需要某种调整来说，他们的确需要将重点转向关注技术、关注新事物。”
For now, however, Mr. Tsai dismisses all the hype around the potential offering with a telling smile. “Nobody really is obsessed with an I.P.O.”
然而就目前来说，蔡崇信对围绕着可能的首次公开募股的所有炒作都一笑置之。“没有人真的那么痴迷IPO。”
But that’s not going to stop the parlor game.
但是这并不会让这场猜谜游戏就此停止。