Question:
问题：
Is it really true that most of the nutrients in vegetables and fruits are found in the skin?
蔬菜水果的绝大部分营养都在皮上，这是真的吗？
Reader Question
读者提问
Answer:
回答：
The colorful skin of an apple, grape or tomato is certainly chockfull of nutrients. But by no means are the outer layers of most fruits and vegetables the prime source of their nutrition.
苹果、葡萄或番茄色彩亮丽的表皮确实富含营养，但是说大部分蔬菜水果的表皮是其营养的最主要来源，这完全没道理。
Part of what makes some fruits and vegetables so rich with color – wax and pesticides notwithstanding – are pigments in the skin that have healthful antioxidant properties. Resveratrol, for example, is found in the skin of red grapes and other fruits. But lycopene, one of the pigments that gives tomatoes and bell peppers their deep red color, is distributed throughout.
一些蔬菜水果之所以颜色鲜艳——虽然上面残留着蜡和杀虫剂——部分原因是表皮中含有健康的可抗氧化的色素。比方说在红葡萄和其他水果中就发现了白藜芦醇。但是番茄红素这种赋予番茄和柿子椒深红色外观的色素，则在蔬果的内外都存在。
Indeed, many vitamins and nutrients are found in the skin as well as the flesh. Take apples. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, a large red apple with its skin intact contains about 5 grams of fiber, 13 milligrams of calcium, 239 milligrams of potassium, and 10 milligrams of vitamin C. But remove the skin, and it still contains about 3 grams of fiber, 11 milligrams of calcium, 194 milligrams of potassium, and plenty of its vitamin C and other nutrients.
事实上，有很多在蔬果表皮中存在的维生素和养分，在果肉中也有。就以苹果为例，据美国农业部(United States Department of Agriculture)资料，一颗大的没削皮的红苹果含有约5克的纤维、13毫克钙、239毫克钾，以及10毫克维生素C。削了皮后，它仍含约3克纤维、11毫克钙、194毫克钾和大量维C及其他营养成份。
Another example is the sweet potato. The U.S.D.A. says that a 100-gram serving of sweet potato cooked with its skin contains 2 grams of protein, 3 grams of fiber, and 20 milligrams of vitamin C. But the same sized serving of sweet potato without skin that has been boiled — a process that further leaches away some of its nutrients — still boasts 1.4 grams of protein, 2.5 grams of fiber, and 13 milligrams of vitamin C.
另一个例证是红薯。美国农业部介绍说，100克连皮烹饪的红薯含有2克蛋白质、3克纤维和20毫克维生素C。而同等大小，去皮煮熟——这个过程会进一步导致一些养分流失——仍然含1.4克蛋白质、2.5克纤维和13毫克维C。
You can lose the skin, in other words, without losing all the benefits.
换句话说，即使刮去蔬果的表皮，也不会丢失全部营养。