A FOUR-BEDROOM CONTEMPORARY WITH VIEWS OF WELLINGTON HARBOR
一栋坐享惠灵顿港(WELLINGTON HARBOR)景观的四居室现代住宅
$2.9 MILLION TO $3.3 MILLION (3.7 TO 4.2 MILLION NEW ZEALAND DOLLARS) 
售价290万至330万美元（即370万至420万新西兰元，约合人民币1777万至2022万元）
This four-bedroom four-bath contemporary on 6.7 acres backs up to the bush of East Harbour Regional Park and faces the city of Wellington across the expanse of Mahina Bay and Wellington Harbor. Because of how the house is situated, it is visible only from the harbor and is hidden from the houses on either side. The exterior has weathered cedar siding, with some sections made of concrete. Originally built in 1988, the 5,683-square-foot house has been completely updated over the last four years under the supervision of John Mills, a local award-winning architect.
这栋四卧、四卫的现代住宅，占地6.7英亩(约合2.7公顷)，背靠着东港地区公园(East Harbor Regional Park)的灌木丛，面对着惠灵顿港，以及马西纳湾(Mahina Bay)辽阔水域对面的惠灵顿市。该房屋因所在位置特殊，仅能从海港处得见，而其两侧的其它住家是看不到它的。这栋房屋的外墙镶嵌着风化的雪杉木护墙板，部分地方以水泥筑成。最近四年来，这栋初建于1988年、面积5683平方英尺(528平方米)的房子，在当地一位获奖设计师约翰·米尔斯(John Mills)的监督下进行了彻底翻修。
The main house is dominated by a great room with peaked ceilings made of heart rimu, a wood native to New Zealand. Glass doors at one end of the room lead to a covered outdoor entertainment area, with a fireplace that can be fueled by either gas or wood. The kitchen has a polished concrete countertop, stainless-steel appliances and a subway tile backsplash. The ceramic tile floors are designed to look like distressed wood.
这栋房屋的主体部分，是个相当大的房间，其斜顶天花板用新西兰的本土乔木——心红杉(heart rimu)制成。房间另一端的玻璃门，可通往一处有顶棚的户外娱乐区域，那里有一座可燃木柴或天然气的两用壁炉。厨房里有抛光的水泥台面、不锈钢电器和贴着白色横条瓷砖的防溅墙。地上铺的瓷砖看起来就像做旧的木地板。
The master bedroom has warm beige carpeting and a wood ceiling with painted beams. The top of the vanity in the master bathroom is made of 2,500-year-old rimu wood that was buried during one of the eruptions of the Taupo Volcano. The shower floor is lined with hand-laid pebbles. Another bedroom, which could also be used as a master suite, has a peaked timber roof and access to a deck. A window overlooks the library downstairs, with wood shutters that can be closed for privacy.
主卧室的地面上，铺着温暖的米黄色地毯，木质天花板上有粉刷过的梁木。而主卧化妆间的天花板则采用了有2500年树龄的木料，这棵树是因陶波火山(Taupo Volcano)的一次喷发而被掩埋的。浴室的地面是一行行手工拼贴的鹅卵石。另有一间卧室也可被用作主卧套间，其中有倾斜的木屋顶，可通往一个平台，还有一扇窗户可以俯瞰楼下的书房，窗户上带有木扉，可以关上以保护隐私。
A path through the bush connects the main house with the pool house tucked into the hillside, which has a game room, a kitchenette, a bathroom and a sauna.
一条穿过灌木丛的小径，将这栋房屋的主楼与隐蔽在山坡上的游泳馆连接了起来。游泳馆中有一间游戏室、一间小厨房、一间浴室和一间桑拿房。
The house is one of about 100 homes built around Mahina Bay, a residential area on the eastern shore of Wellington Harbor. The village of Eastbourne, a five-minute drive, has cafes, shops and restaurants. The city of Lower Hutt is about 15 minutes away. Wellington’s central business district is a 30-minute drive, but the commute time stretches to 45 minutes during rush hour. Ferry service to Wellington, about a 20-minute ride, is also available. The airport is a 40-minute drive.
马西纳湾(Mahina Bay)是惠灵顿海港东岸的一片住宅区，当中建造了大约100栋住宅，这栋房屋就是其中之一。从此地开车五分钟就可到达伊斯特本(Eastbourne)的村子，那里有咖啡店、商店和餐馆。下赫特市(Lower Hutt)距此约15分钟车程。惠灵顿市的中心商业区距此屋30分钟车程，但高峰时段的通勤时间可能延长至45分钟。此外，也可搭乘轮渡前往惠灵顿市，时长大约20分钟。此地距机场约有40分钟的车程。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概况
“Dynamic markets have been occurring in two different parts of the country,” said Marty Scott, the managing director of Harcourts Team Wellington. Auckland is benefiting from a strong job market and an immigration boom, partially fueled by New Zealanders returning home from abroad to take advantage of the strong economy. Meanwhile, Christchurch, on the South Island, has experienced a construction boom as the city recovers from the 2011 earthquake. Both cities are seeing double-digit price growth, Mr. Scott said.
“在新西兰的两个不同区域，房地产市场正变得越来越有活力，”Harcourts Team Wellington公司的总经理马蒂·斯科特(Marty Scott)说。奥克兰市(Auckland)正从强劲的就业市场与移民大潮中受益，而这股趋势的动力，也部分来自于那些陆续从海外归国、以期受惠于强劲经济势头的新西兰人。与此同时，南部海岛上的克赖斯特彻奇市(Christchurch)，从2011年的地震中逐渐恢复后，也已经在大兴土木了。两座城市都达到了两位数的增长速度，斯科特说。
Other parts of the country, including Wellington, have experienced more modest price growth, and are just now returning to price levels not seen since the 2008 global financial crisis. But Mr. Scott noted that New Zealand’s small population of around 4.5 million means there are relatively few real estate transactions every year, making it hard to generalize about market trends.
而在新西兰的其它地方，包括惠灵顿市，房地产价格增长一直比较疲软，目前刚刚回到2008年全球金融危机以来鲜有的价格水平。但斯科特指出，新西兰的人口大约只有450万，这就意味着每年的房地产交易相对较少，因此很难大而化之地讨论某些房地产市场的趋势。
In Wellington, for example, which has a population of about 180,000, Mr. Scott said there are only around 40 sales per quarter of properties costing more than a million New Zealand dollars (around $780,000 at 1.28 New Zealand dollars to the United States dollar). He said it is possible to buy a very high-quality home — usually a renovated four-bedroom built between 1910 and 1930, in a style the locals refer to as the California bungalow — for around 700,000 to 900,000 New Zealand dollars, or about $550,000 to $705,000. When it comes to homes in Wellington costing more than 1.5 million New Zealand dollars, “the buyers are not hunting in packs,” he said.
例如在惠灵顿市这样一座人口大约18万的城市，斯科特说，在每季度的房产交易中，大约只有40笔买卖的金额超过100万新西兰元（按1.28新西兰元兑换1美元的汇率，大约为78万美元[约合人民币478万元]）。他说，买家以大约70万至90万新西兰元，也即55万至70.5万美元（约合人民币337万元至432万元），就很有可能买到一栋高品质的住宅了——通常是一栋建于1910年至1930年之间、经过翻修的四居室住宅，其建筑风格就是本地人所说的“加利福尼亚平房”(California bungalow)。至于惠灵顿市里超过150万新西兰元（约合人民币722.3万元）的住宅，“买家们并没有趋之若鹜。”他说。
Homes in the Hutt Valley, where this house is, are less expensive than in the city. Historically, most New Zealanders have lived in smaller houses on quarter-acre plots, although that trend is changing. Mr. Scott said the unusually large size of this house and its acreage would make a higher price point unsurprising. The 180-degree harbor views also contribute to the higher price.
在该房屋所在的赫特山谷(Hutt Valley)，住宅比市内的房屋略便宜一些。一直以来，大多数新西兰人住在占地1/4英亩（约1012平方米）的、户型更小的住宅中，尽管这个趋势目前正在改变。斯科特说，这栋房屋大得超乎寻常的建筑面积与占地面积，使其价格即使再高一些也不让人意外。而且，屋外的180度海港景色，也让这栋房屋显得物有所值。
WHO BUYS IN NEW ZEALAND
谁在新西兰买房
“The United Kingdom remains a steady source of migrants into New Zealand,” Mr. Scott said. India, China and South Africa have also been well represented in recent years. He said Auckland has been experiencing population growth of about 40,000 people a year, mostly because of immigration and young professional New Zealanders moving back to the country from abroad.
“英国一直是新西兰移民的稳定来源，”斯科特说。印度、中国和南非买家近年来也很有代表性。他说，奥克兰市每年人口增长约为4万，主要是移民和一些从海外归国的、有工作的年轻新西兰人。
“Most of the foreign buyers for the Eastbourne area tend to be from the U.K. or Europe,” said Duncan Povey, an owner of Tommy’s Real Estate Lower Hutt, based in Eastbourne, which has this listing.
“伊斯特本地区的大多数外国买家，基本来自英国或欧洲，”下赫特市汤米房地产公司(Tommy’s Real Estate Lower Hutt)的所有人邓肯·波维(Duncan Povey)说，该公司总部位于伊斯特本，代理了本文中这处房源的销售工作。
BUYING BASICS
购买基本条件
Foreigners can own land in New Zealand, but some properties deemed strategic by the Overseas Investment Office, such as large tracts of farmland or land within protected green space, require government consent before noncitizens are allowed to purchase them. Mr. Scott said it is unusual for residential properties to require such approval, however.
外国买家可以在新西兰拥有土地，但有部分地产资源，比如大片的农田或属于绿色保护区的土地，因被海外投资部(Overseas Investment Office)视为战略规划，所以要求非新西兰公民的买家必须先征得政府准许才能购买。但是斯科特说，住宅类的地产很少涉及这项许可。
Transaction costs include a fee of about 1,000 to 1,200 New Zealand dollars to transfer the title, according to Mr. Povey. A building inspection for this house will probably cost another 1,000 New Zealand dollars, and an appraisal costs 800 to 1,000 New Zealand dollars. There are no other fees. “It’s quite an easy process,” Mr. Povey said.
波维说，房地产交易费中，包括一笔1000至1200新西兰元（约合人民币4830至5796元）的过户费。这栋房屋的验收费用大约还需要1000新西兰元（约合人民币4830元）。而评估费用则需800至1000新西兰元（约合人民币3864至4830元）。除此之外，没有其它费用了。“手续非常简单。”波维说。
Not all properties in New Zealand are marketed with an asking price, as is common in the United States. Some are sold at auction, while some, like this house, are advertised with a price range instead of a single price.
新西兰与美国通常的做法不一样，并不是所有房产都在市场上明码标价出售。有些房产只通过拍卖出售，还有一些，比如本文这栋房屋，则是通过在广告上标出价格范围而不是单一价格来出售的。