With its cheerful yellow clapboard facade and white picket fence, the little house on Menomonee Street seems a bit lost among the imposing stone buildings and brick townhouses that surround it, as if it were dropped into the Old Town section of the city from another place and time. “How cute!” passers-by often remark, even if they’re alone. There’s just something about it that makes people stop and smile.
在梅诺莫尼街上(Menomonee Street)，这栋带有明黄色板墙立面和白色尖木桩篱笆的小房屋，夹在周围那些高大的石砌建筑与砖砌的联排别墅之间，似乎有些迷失了方向，就像它刚从另一个时空落入了这座城市的老城区里。“太可爱了！”路人常常这样感叹，即使他们只是独自从这里走过。这栋房屋就是会给人一种想停下脚步对它微笑的感觉。
So it isn’t surprising that David Hawkanson immediately knew which house his real estate agent was talking about when she suggested the reasonably priced but somewhat impractical one-bedroom cottage. This was in early 2007, and he was in a bit of a pickle, still living in an extended-stay condominium a few years into his tenure as executive director of the Steppenwolf Theater Company. People were starting to talk.
所以，当戴维·霍肯森(David Hawkanson)的房地产经纪人提及这栋价格合理、但有点不太现实的单卧室小屋时，他立刻就知道她在说的是哪一栋了。那是2007年初，霍肯森刚刚担任 Steppenwolf剧团的常务团长没几年，处境还有点困难，依旧住在一套长期租赁的共管公寓里。于是人们开始议论纷纷。
“One of the trustees suggested it would be good for my reputation if I actually put down roots,” said Mr. Hawkanson, 67.
“一位受托人建议我切切实实地扎下根来，认为那样对我的名誉会有好处。”67岁的霍肯森说。
So he decided to take it as a sign when he learned that the curious little house that drew him to Old Town in the first place was suddenly on the market. “Something in my gut told me, ‘This is just what you want right now!’ ” he said.
所以，当霍肯森得知当初将他吸引到老城区的那栋奇怪的小屋忽然要出售时，他将这件事看成了一个征兆。“我心里有个声音在说，‘你现在正需要这样一栋房子！’”他说。
The idea of living smaller and owning less was so exhilarating, he bought the 780-square-foot house that afternoon and then rushed home to make a list of the things he could not live without. It was a bit like eloping after a boozy first date, for there was so much he didn’t know about the house and its origins. He certainly had no idea about the extent of its celebrity, which made living there, as a previous owner had observed, “like living in a fishbowl.”
让住的地方再小一点，让用的东西再少一点，这样的想法让他兴奋。所以当天下午，他就买下了那栋面积780平方英尺（约合72.5平方米）的房屋，然后匆匆回到家中，整理出一份生活必需品清单。这就有点像初次约会后，尚未清醒过来就决定私奔一样。因为他对这栋房屋的情况及其起源实在知之甚少。这栋房屋有多么出名，他完全没有概念。而据前任房东观察，住在这里“就像生活在玻璃鱼缸中一样”。
That would all come later, long after he realized that the large Robert Kelly painting on his must-keep list would not fit on a single interior wall.
但那都是后来的事了，现在还早着呢，他甚至还没发现，清单上那幅巨大的罗伯特·凯利(Robert Kelly)画像，是无法挂在那栋新房里的任何一面墙上的。
•
Although the house is an anomaly today, back in the fall of 1871 thousands of others exactly like it were being slapped together in the aftermath of the Great Chicago Fire that had burned for two days that October, claiming about 300 lives and leaving a third of the city’s 300,000 residents homeless.
尽管在今天看来，这栋房子完全是个异类；但追溯至1871年的秋天，在那次芝加哥大火灾(Great Chicago Fire)之后，你能看到成千上万栋一模一样的房屋，被纷纷修建于仓促之间。那年10月，这场火灾足足烧了两天时间，夺去了大约300条性命，让芝加哥市的30万名居民，有三分之一的人无家可归。
Known as fire relief, or shelter, cottages, they came in two sizes — small ($100) and smaller ($75) — in kits that contained pre-cut lumber, windows, a door, a chimney and a flexible room partition offering a modicum of privacy. The 12-by-16-foot model was for those with families of three or fewer; the 16-by-20-foot version was for everyone else.
这些被称为“灾后援建房”、“避难所”或“小屋”的房子可以分为两种，一种是小面积的户型（100美元[约合人民币615元]），另一种是更小面积的户型（75美元[约合人民币461元]）。当时出售的都是成套的建筑材料，其中包括预先切割好的木条、几扇窗户、一扇大门、一杆烟囱，以及一块可以提供稍许隐私的活动房间隔板。这种12x16英尺（约3.7x4.9米）的房型适用于那些三口之家或人数更少的家庭；而那种16x20英尺（约4.9x6.1米）的房型，则适用于其他的家庭。
The idea behind the kits, which were distributed, often for free, by the Chicago Relief and Aid Society, was to get the city back on its feet as quickly as possible. By mid-November, some 5,200 cottages had gone up; by the following May, 3,000 more had been built.
这些成套的建材由芝加哥救济与援助社(Chicago Relief and Aid Society)派发，他们往往分文不取，目的在于让这座城市尽快恢复正常运转。到了当年11月中旬，已有5200栋这样的小屋搭建起来；至次年5月，又有3000栋小屋落成。
“The whole idea of framing mass numbers of buildings quickly using dimensional lumber, that’s a development that happened in the 19th century,” said John Russick, director of curatorial affairs for the Chicago History Museum. “Immediately, they were building the wooden city again using the resources at hand.”
“利用各种规格的木材，迅速构建起大量房屋，这整个概念都是19世纪才有的产物，”芝加哥历史博物馆(Chicago History Museum)的馆长事务主管约翰·鲁西克(John Russick)说，“顷刻之间，他们利用现有资源，又建起了一座木板之城。”
But it wasn’t long before city leaders realized they were repeating an earlier mistake, he said, and new building codes soon outlawed clapboard construction downtown. Old Town was still a bit of a rural outpost, and the ban on wood did not take effect there until 1874, the year Mr. Hawkanson’s house was recorded as having been built.
然而没过多久，芝加哥的领袖们就意识到，他们正在重复以前的错误，他说。于是，新出台的建筑法规就很快禁止了在市中心建造板墙式房屋。老城区仍有一点边远乡村的感觉，而且这项木屋禁令直到1874年才生效，从记录资料来看，那一年霍肯森的房子早已建起来了。
Historians and neighborhood preservation advocates are convinced that a number of these cottages are still around, but most of them have been obscured by renovations or have become unrecognizable over time. Mr. Hawkanson’s and another a few blocks away, in a backyard on Sedgwick Street, are the only two thought to look remotely as they did in the years following the fire. And “David’s is the supreme-o one,” said Diane Gonzalez, a neighbor and architectural tour guide.
历史学家和拥护社区保护政策的人都认为，这里依然有许多这样的木屋，但大多数都经过反复修缮，原貌已经模糊不清了，或者历经岁月的洗礼，变得难以辨识。而霍肯森的房子，和几条街区外位于塞奇威克街(Sedgwick Street)一座后院里的另一栋房屋，是目前仅存的两栋、被大家认为遥似火灾后援建房面貌的房屋。而且“戴维的那栋棒极了”，这里的一位邻居兼建筑景观导游黛安·冈萨雷斯(Diane Gonzalez)说。
Given how many of its owners have wanted to alter or demolish the house, it’s remarkable that it still exists, let alone resembles its original self. Credit goes to those like Ms. Gonzalez and Shirley Baugher, an Old Town historian and author, who fought for landmark protection for the neighborhood; now street-facing facades of structures deemed historically significant cannot be substantially changed without approval from the Commission on Chicago Landmarks.
不知有多少业主都打算过改建或拆除这类房屋，有鉴于此，它们至今仍能留存于世已属非比寻常，更何况还能维持原貌。这得归功于冈萨雷斯和研究老城区的历史学家兼作家雪莉·鲍尔(Shirley Baugher)，以及诸如此类的一些人物。他们曾经为争取该社区的地标保护地位不断努力；现在，那些临街的建筑都已获认定，其立面具有历史意义，未经芝加哥地标协会( the Commission on Chicago Landmarks)的认可，都不可做出大的变更。
Ms. Gonzalez, for one, was thrilled to learn that Mr. Hawkanson was single and had no children because, she reasoned, that meant he would not want to alter the home’s appearance or size, as others have tried (and failed) to do. At one point, Ms. Baugher said, an owner sought permission to connect the house to the detached garage and add an extra story, putting a sign in the window that read, “This is not a landmark.”
举例来说，当冈萨雷斯得知霍肯森是名单身人士，并且没有孩子时，她感到非常兴奋，因为按照她的推测，那就意味着他不会再像别人尝试过（并失败了）的那样，去改变这栋房屋的外观或大小了。鲍尔说，有一次，一位业主提出希望能将这栋房屋与独立的车库连接起来，然后再增建一层楼，并在窗口放块标牌，上面写“这里不是地标建筑”。
Even so, there are a number of changes that have been made in the years since a Mr. Hambrock built the house using the larger of the two kits, Ms. Baugher wrote in “At Home in Our Old Town: Every House Has a Story.” A kitchen was added in 1900; a bathroom and garage extension in 1930; and a bay window later that century.
即便如此，自从哈姆布罗克(Hambrock)用规格较大的那套建材搭建了这栋房屋后，历经多年，这里还是发生了许多变化，鲍尔在《我们老城区的家：每栋房屋都有一个故事》(At Home in Our Old Town: Every House Has a Story)中写道。1900年，这栋房屋增加了一间厨房；1930年，这里扩建了一间浴室和车库；再后来，20世纪后期又增加了一扇飘窗。
Jens Bogehegn, who sold the house to Mr. Hawkanson in early 2007, gut-renovated it in 2002, creating an open living area and combining two tiny bedrooms. (With a second child on the way, he and his wife thought they had no choice but to sell.) And during the renovation, he said, he often had to wriggle through the crawl space, where the pungent smell of burned wood remains unmistakable.
于2007年初将这栋房子卖给霍肯森的前任房东延斯·博格海恩(Jens Bogehegn)，曾在2002年做过一次大胆翻修，打造了一个开放式的生活空间，还合并了两间小卧室（由于他和妻子马上就会有第二个孩子了，他们只能将这栋房子出售）。他说在翻修期间，他常常得绕过那些铺设了电路和水管的槽隙，那些地方有木头烧焦的刺鼻味道，一闻就能知道。
•
Although Mr. Hawkanson had been cautioned about it, one fine day during his first spring here, he absent-mindedly ventured out in his skivvies to retrieve the morning paper, just as a tour guide was recounting the story of the “cute little house.”
虽然霍肯森一直都小心翼翼，但住进这栋房屋的第一年春天，在一个晴朗的日子里，他还是疏忽大意地只穿了一身内衣就出门去取早上的报纸。当时正好有一位导游在讲述这栋“可爱小屋”的故事。
The guide finished with a dramatic flourish about how the “shanty kit” cost only $100 in materials all those years ago. Then, inspired by Mr. Hawkanson’s appearance, he added: “And this guy just paid in the mid-six figures!”
这位导游绘声绘色，刚讲完这栋“简陋的建筑物”多年前怎样只卖了100美元的材料费。这时候，霍肯森出现了，他便灵机一动补充道：“但这位兄弟刚刚花了50万！”
That was Mr. Hawkanson’s introduction to the tours that snake by the house at the most inopportune moments — and sometimes through it. Once, he said, he had been working in the garden out back and walked in to find a family of tourists sitting at his dining table eating their bag lunches. He had left the door open and they had mistaken the house for a public venue.
房屋门前排成长龙的游客们，就这样在最不合时宜的情况下认识了霍肯森。他们有时甚至会长驱直入。霍肯森说，有一次他去了后院的花园里干活，等他走进屋时，发现有一家子参观者正坐在他的餐桌旁吃自带的午餐。他之前忘了关门，而他们以为这栋房屋是一处公共场所。
Although he is in the entertainment world, Mr. Hawkanson feigns shyness. This friendly house, his 12th in 20 years, he said, does much of the work for him. “You sit on the front deck, reading or having a drink,” he said, “and you talk to people as they walk by. It’s so Midwestern.” (He can say that; he grew up in Duluth, Minn., and Pittsburgh.)
尽管霍肯森身处娱乐界，也惯于应酬，但他还是装出了一幅腼腆的模样。他说，这栋友好的房子（20年来他住过的第12处地方）已经为他承担了大部分应酬的活儿。“你只要坐在门口的平台上读读报纸，或者喝点什么，”他说，“然后有人走过的时候，你跟他们随便侃两句就行了。很有中西部生活的感觉。”（他有资格那样说；因为他就是在明尼苏达州的德卢斯市[Duluth, Minn.]和匹兹堡市[Pittsburgh]长大的）。