The news that Facebook paid $2 billion for a virtual reality start-up, Oculus VR, might strike you as a bit zany. Like flying cars and robotic maids, the idea of donning a pair of computerized glasses and slipping into a digital world feels like a snapshot from yesterday’s future.
Facebook花20亿美元（约合124亿元人民币）收购虚拟现实初创企业Oculus VR的消息，可能会让你觉得有点怪诞。就像会飞的汽车和机器人女佣一样，戴着一副电脑化的眼镜溜进数字世界的感觉，仿佛是我们昨天想象的未来世界会出现的一个场景。
Is something so self-consciously geeky really worth billions of dollars? What would a nontechie nongamer do with virtual reality?
如此有意为之而极客气息深重的东西，真的值20亿美元吗？如果不是科技控、游戏控，拿虚拟现实能做什么呢？
The answer: pretty much everything.
答案是：几乎所有事。
“I don’t worry anymore about whether it will be accepted by the mainstream — that will happen,” said Jeremy Bailenson, a virtual reality researcher who directs Stanford University’s Virtual Human Interaction Lab. Like many in his field, Dr. Bailenson argues that virtual reality technology is advancing so quickly that it is certain to infuse just about every corner of our lives. After trying out the technology in Dr. Bailenson’s lab this week, I believe he’s more right than wrong. Virtual reality is coming, and you’re going to jump into it.
斯坦福大学(Stanford University)虚拟人类互动实验室(Virtual Human Interaction Lab)主任、虚拟现实研究人员杰里米·拜伦森(Jeremy Bailenson)说，“我已经不再担心它是不是能为主流所接受了——肯定会的。”就像这个领域里的许多人一样，拜伦森提出，虚拟现实技术的进展如此迅速，肯定会出现在我们现实生活中的几乎每个角落。本周，在拜伦森的实验室里体验过这种技术之后，我认为他可能没说错。虚拟现实即将到来，你会迫不及待地投身其中。
That’s because virtual reality is the natural extension of every major technology we use today — of movies, TV, videoconferencing, the smartphone and the web. It is the ultra-immersive version of all these things, and we’ll use it exactly the same ways — to communicate, to learn, and to entertain ourselves and escape. Dr. Bailenson says that it will even alter how society deals with such weighty issues as gender parity and environmental destruction.
这是因为虚拟现实是我们今天使用的每一种主要技术的自然延伸，如电影、电视、视频会议、智能手机、网络等技术。它是所有这些东西的超级沉浸化的版本，我们也会以完全相同的方式使用虚拟现实技术，例如用于通讯、学习、娱乐和逃避。拜伦森说，它甚至会改变社会处理一些重大议题的方式，如性别平等和环境破坏。
The only question is when.
唯一的问题是什么时候。
Dr. Bailenson calls his lab’s advanced VR rig “one of the most intense, immersive virtual reality experiences on the planet.” In addition to running test subjects through the lab’s technology to see how people respond to virtual environments, he regularly hosts business leaders looking to experience the future of virtual reality. Just a few weeks before Facebook announced the Oculus acquisition, Mark Zuckerberg, a co-founder and the chief executive of Facebook, dropped by for a visit.
拜伦森形容，他实验室里先进的虚拟现实装备，是“地球上最引人入胜、最能让人沉浸其中的体验之一”。除了让研究对象体验该实验室的技术，研究人们会如何对虚拟现实环境做出反应之外，他还时常接待期望体验虚拟现实的未来的商界领袖。就在宣布收购Oculus几周前，Facebook的联合创始人及CEO马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)就曾来这里参观过。
This week, in an hour-and-a-half session, Dr. Bailenson offered a series of simulations similar to the ones Mr. Zuckerberg experienced. Sometimes his guidance was physical; when I “fell” into a virtual pit as I scampered across a virtual plank, my real-life body crumpled, and Dr. Bailenson had to catch me. By the end of simulation, I was a little dazed, and my neck hurt from carrying the lab’s five-pound, $30,000 goggles, which offer a far more realistic simulation than can be achieved with smaller, cheaper headsets, like Oculus’s Rift.
本周，在一次一个半小时长的体验中，拜伦森呈现了与扎克伯格体验到的情景相似的一系列模拟场景。有时候他的指引是肢体的：我沿着虚拟的板子跑跳时，“掉进”了虚拟的坑里，此时我在现实中的躯体蜷成一团，拜伦森就必须要抓住我。体验快结束时，我感觉有点眩晕，而且因为戴着五磅重（约合2.3公斤）、价值3万美元的眼镜，所以脖子有点疼。这个眼镜呈现的模拟效果，比体积更小也更廉价的头戴设备，如Oculus Rift要真实得多。
But I was hooked, too. I had experienced how an immersive virtual reality simulator can play strange tricks on one’s body, mind and mood.
不过我还是着迷了。我体验到了沉浸式的虚拟现实模拟装置能够如何迷惑人的身体、头脑和情绪。
For years, the most convincing criticism of virtual reality was that the technology just wouldn’t be good enough. That’s still the main criticism. Virtual reality devices work by sending a computer-generated image to each of your eyes in response to your movements. The simulator’s fidelity depends on how accurately it can track your movements, and how quickly it can adjust the image to match the motion. If the technology is just a little off, the simulation fails.
多年来，人们对虚拟现实提出的最有说服力的批评是，这种技术根本不可能做到足够好，现在这仍然是最主要的批评观点。虚拟现实设备的运行方式是，将电脑生成的图像投射在每只眼睛里，来响应人的运动。模拟设备的精确性取决于它追踪你的行动有多么精确，调整图像从而适应你的运动时，速度有多快。只要技术有一点点差池，模拟就失败了。
“If you turn your head and look over there, you’ll notice a slight discrepancy, and your brain will feel it,” said Tadhg Kelly, a game designer who writes the blog What Games Are, and who has been skeptical of VR’s ability to go mainstream. “I wonder if that feeling of dislocation will ever quite go away, and if you’ll ever be able to get immersed in the scene.”
“如果你扭头看那边，会注意到有一点差异，你的大脑能感觉到，”游戏设计师泰格·凯利(Tadhg Kelly)说，他是博客What Games Are的作者，对虚拟现实的主流前景持怀疑态度。“我不知道这种错位的感觉有没有消失的那一天，是不是永远都无法做到全心融入虚拟的场景。”
That gets to the Achilles’ heel of VR. If you’re aware of the simulation, virtual reality will feel gimmicky, and, from Smell-O-Vision to 3-D TV to the “uncanny valley” of animated faces, the history of media is littered with failed, gimmicky efforts to create better simulations of the real world.
这就是虚拟现实技术的阿喀琉斯之踵了。一旦你能意识到在模拟，虚拟现实就成了一种噱头，从Smell-O-Vision到3D电视再到“恐怖谷”的动画面孔，在媒体的历史中，为了更好地模拟真实世界，有过许许多多失败而花哨的努力。
“The biggest question we had was, ‘Was this the right time?' ” said Chris Dixon, an investor at the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz, which led a $75 million investment in Oculus VR in December. “But we found that we’re just at the right time for all the stuff to work.”
“我们面对的最大问题是，‘现在是时候了吗？’”风投机构安德森-霍洛维茨基金(Andreessen Horowitz)投资人克里斯·迪克森(Chris Dixon)说。“但是我们发现，现在正是一切都开始见成果的时候。”安德森-霍洛维茨在去年12月带头对Oculus VR进行了一轮7500万美元的投资。
Rather than exciting physical feats, I was more thrilled by the simulator’s power to push me to forge emotional connections with other virtual characters. In one simulation, I walked into a room in which there were a dozen or so people, all seated in front of me, staring at my eyes. The people didn’t look realistic; they looked like video game characters, splotches of polygons.
相比激动人心的实体表现奇观，让我更震撼的是虚拟器能够强大到让我去和其他虚拟人物建立情感联系。在一场模拟中，我走进一个房间，里面有十来个人，都坐在我面前盯着我看。这些人的样子并不真实；他们像是电子游戏里的人物，多边形的构成。
Yet when the researchers asked me to walk toward the group, bend my head down and touch one of the people nose to nose, I found it incredibly difficult. In a way that I’ve never experienced in a video game, I felt as if I were dealing with real people — and violating their personal space.
然而当研究人员要我朝那群人走过去，弯腰和其中一人鼻尖相碰时，我发现这让我很为难。我感觉这是在跟真人打交道——会侵犯到他们的个人空间，这是我在游戏里从未有过的感受。
It’s this ability to let us feel a sense of human connection that boosters say will make virtual reality a powerful communications platform. Today, companies spend billions on travel and videoconferencing, because even though we can all get our work done remotely, face-to-face meetings are powerful.
正是这种让我们产生人际联络感的能力，促使支持者认为，虚拟现实是一种强大的传播平台。如今的公司要在差旅和视频会议上耗费数十亿美元，因为尽管我们都能远程完成工作，面对面的谈话仍然是一种强大的手段。
Yet researchers have shown that virtual meetings can be even better than real-life encounters, because our avatars can be programmed to act perfectly manipulatively, in ways that we can’t. For instance, in VR encounters, everyone can make eye contact with everyone else, suggesting a level of attentiveness that might be lacking in reality.
而研究人员已经证明，虚拟会议甚至比真人会面还要好，因为我们的化身可以通过编程进行完美的操控，以我们做不到的方式行事。比如，在虚拟现实的会面中，每个人都可以和他人进行眼神交流，展现一种在现实生活中可能缺失的专注。
Another potential use is pure escapism. History shows that we’ve never shied away from such immersive experiences when they work. Since their invention, movies have offered a compelling, immersive world. These days, we go outside wearing big headphones to transport us through music. And we can’t stop staring at our phones.
还有一个可能用途则是彻底的遁世。历史已经证明，这种沉浸式体验一旦起作用，我们是从来不忌讳去用它的。电影自发明以来向我们提供了一种引人入胜的、身临其境的体验。今天，我们戴着大耳机出门，用音乐自我放逐。我们没完没了地盯着我们的手机。
“If you use Oculus to look at a panoramic photo, it feels like you’re there,” Mr. Dixon said. “Who wouldn’t want to do that after a long day of work — to change your mental state by escaping into a photo?”
“如果你用Oculus去看一张全景照片，感觉你人就在那里，”迪克森说。“经过一天的操劳，谁不想看这么一张照片——用它来换换心境呢？”
He added, “In some ways, the biggest competitor to virtual reality might be a bottle of wine.”
他还说，“某种程度上，虚拟现实更主要的竞争对手是一瓶红酒。”