The visiting room of San Francisco County Jail No. 4 is on the seventh floor of the Hall of Justice, at 850 Bryant Street, across from Aladdin Bail Bonds and one block from Mint, a yoga, Pilates and barre-class studio. On weekend mornings, families wait in a concrete stairwell between the sixth and seventh floors. Over the past six months, I often joined the line. Each time, after a guard unlocked the door, I found Shrimp Boy among other inmates, sitting on a stool behind soundproof glass, waving me over to take a seat on the other side and pick up the phone. He started each conversation with: ‘‘Hello. How are you?’’ His face was far more relaxed than I expected, and his black plastic-framed glasses hung from the collar of his orange county-jail sweatshirt. He has soft hands and a shiny bald head. From our talks, both in jail and over the phone, and from his unpublished memoir, I learned the story of his life, at least according to Shrimp Boy; there are no public records of many of the details.
旧金山县第四监狱(San Francisco County Jail No. 4)的探视室位于布莱恩街850号司法大楼的七层，对面是阿拉丁保释中介公司(Aladdin Bail Bonds)。一个街区之外，就是瑜伽、普拉提和舞蹈会所Mint。周末的早晨，家属会沿着六层和七层之间混凝土楼梯间等待。过去六个月里，我也常常是其中的一员。每一次，当狱卒打开门时，我就能在拘禁人员当中见到虾仔。他在隔音玻璃对面，坐在凳子上招手让我过去，坐到他对面拿起听筒。每次交谈，他的第一句话都是：“哈喽，你好吗？”他的表情远远比我预想的要更加放松，他的黑塑料框眼镜挂在县监狱的橙色汗衫的领口上。他的手很软，秃头很亮。通过与他在狱中和电话上交谈，阅读他尚未出版的回忆录，我了解到了他的人生故事，至少虾仔是这样讲的。其中的许多细节并没有公开记录可资参考。
Kwok Cheung Chow was born in Hong Kong, where his grandmother nicknamed him Ha Jai, or Shrimp Boy. His father owned a successful barbershop, but when Shrimp Boy was 8, his father lost his business because of gambling debts. Shrimp Boy, his four brothers, his grandmother and his parents all moved from their nice apartment above the barbershop to a one-room shack with no running water. A year later, that shanty burned down, and Shrimp Boy’s family moved to a home with only two beds. Every night, Shrimp Boy fought to sleep next to his grandmother. He liked to hold onto her ear, for comfort, the way a child might cling to a stuffed animal.
周国祥(Kwok Cheung Chow)生于香港，祖母给他取了“虾仔”的绰号。他的父亲拥有一家生意兴隆的理发店，但在虾仔八岁时，父亲因为欠下赌债而丢掉了生意。虾仔与他的四个兄弟、祖母及父母，从理发店楼上很棒的公寓，搬到了没有自来水而且只有一间的棚屋。一年之后，那所棚屋烧掉了，虾仔一家人住进了一个只有两张床的房间。每天晚上，虾仔都会抢着睡在祖母身旁。他喜欢抓着祖母的耳朵寻求安慰，就像小孩抓着填充玩具一样。
When Shrimp Boy was 9, he told me, a local tough noticed his scrappiness and bravado — Shrimp Boy often puffed up his tiny body and told people he had won fights even when he lost. The tough took him on as a protégé, teaching him the ancient Chinese gang code of loyalty, trust, honor, dignity and respect, as well as the value of keeping a knife tucked in the waistband of your pants. Before long, Shrimp Boy says, he was working for his mentor, as a courier transporting small bags of heroin. Shortly after, Shrimp Boy showed up to watch his mentor in a fight. When the brawl started going badly, Shrimp Boy pulled out a huge, squared-off watermelon knife and leapt into the action. He whacked the blade, twice, on his mentor’s opponent’s head. Blood, exposed bone. This was the first significant violence of Shrimp Boy’s life. He became a local gang hero, which he really liked.
虾仔告诉我，他九岁时，当地的一个狠角色注意到他凶狠又爱逞强——虾仔时常鼓起自己瘦小的身体，告诉别人他打架赢了，哪怕是他输了。那位狠角色把他收为小弟，教会了他华人帮会里忠诚、信任、荣誉、尊严、尊重的规矩，也教会了他在裤腰里藏一把刀的重要性。虾仔说，不久以后他就开始为自己的大佬做事，运送小包的海洛因。很快，虾仔就在一场打斗中现身，掩护大佬。那场打斗变得很惨烈，虾仔抽出了一把切西瓜的锋利大刀，跳进了混战当中。他在大佬的仇家头上狠狠地砍了两刀。刀口鲜血四溅，还露出了骨头。这是虾仔人生中第一场重大的暴力事件。他成为了当地黑帮的英雄，这一点他很喜欢。
In 1976, when Shrimp Boy was 16, his parents moved the family to San Francisco. By then, he says, he was already an accomplished hoodlum — experienced in juvenile detention, practiced in not squealing to the police. Shrimp Boy carried with him to America a letter of recommendation, a to-whom-it-may-concern note from his Hong Kong gang leader. Shrimp Boy gave the letter to an elder in Chinatown, who introduced him around.
1976年，虾仔16岁时，他的父母把家搬到了旧金山。他说，那时他已经是混得不错的阿飞，进过少管所，学会了不对警察叫喊。虾仔来美国时，带了一封推荐信，是他所属的香港帮会的头目写的。虾仔把信交给了华埠的一位大佬，后者把他介绍给了当地帮会。
Instead of going to school, he applied his considerable ambition to climbing the tong ranks. The tongs were started by Chinese immigrants who came to California in the mid-1800s, for the Gold Rush and to work on the railroad. The immigrants experienced terrible discrimination. In 1856, the Californian Committee on Mines and Mining Interests declared the Chinese ‘‘a disgusting scab upon the fair face of society — a putrefying sore upon the body politic.’’ The Chinese looked to their own community for help. ‘‘No matter what you need, you go to the tong,” says Ko-lin Chin, a professor at the Rutgers School of Criminal Justice, describing 1800s San Francisco. ‘‘If a Chinese man dies and he doesn’t want to be buried in the United States, the tongs help ship the body back to China. If you need a notice read in English. If you need a loan.’’ The tongs also provided extralegal amenities, like prostitution, opium and gambling dens. To this day, tongs serve a range of roles, and they have spread to Chinatowns nationwide. Some tongs focus on extortion, others on scholarship funds. ‘‘It depends on the leadership,’’ says Chin, who notes that many tongs have a street gang, if not a connection to organized crime.
他没有上学，而是把抱负放在了在华人帮会层层晋升上。这些帮会是19世纪中页移居美国的华人创办的。他们或是借着淘金热潮，或是为了修铁路而来到加利福尼亚，经历过严重的歧视。1856年，加利福尼亚州矿务和采矿权益委员会(Californian Committee on Mines and Mining Interests)宣布，华人是“社会精致面庞上一个令人作呕的痂，是美国人身上的一个烂疮”。于是华人指望从自己的团体得到帮助。“不管需要什么，去帮会就行了，”罗格斯大学刑事司法学院(Rutgers School of Criminal Justice)的教授陈国霖(Ko-lin Chin)说起19世纪初的旧金山时说。“如果有华人死了，他又不想被葬在美国，帮会就会帮忙把遗体运回国。如果需要写英文公告，或者需要贷款。”帮会也提供非法设施，如供卖淫、抽鸦片和赌博的场所。直到今天，帮会仍扮演着一系列角色，并扩展到了全美各地的华埠。一些帮会主要干敲诈勒索的事情，但也有一些帮会设立奖学金。“要看领导层，”陈国霖说。他指出，很多帮会就算和有组织犯罪没有关联，也会有一个街头团伙。
When Shrimp Boy was 17, he was dropped by a Hop Sing Tong lieutenant at a home in suburban Hillsborough. The tong, he says, had been hired by La Cosa Nostra, the Sicilian mafia, to land the resident of the house in the hospital for three months. Dressed in bell bottoms, a jeans jacket and platform shoes, he grabbed a two-by-four that happened to be propped by the front door. He beat the man brutally and left the house two minutes later. The next day, in a Chinatown restaurant, a tong boss gave Shrimp Boy a slice of custard pie and an envelope containing $3,000.
17岁时，虾仔被合胜堂(Hop Sing Tong)的一个头目送到了希尔斯伯勒郊区的一所房子前。他说，西西里黑手党(La Cosa Nostra)出钱让合胜堂教训住在那所房子里的人，要让对方在医院躺三个月。房子的前门旁边刚好靠着一小块木板。穿着喇叭裤、牛仔夹克、厚底鞋的他顺手抄起木板，对那名男子一顿暴打，并在两分钟后离开了现场。第二天，在华埠一家餐厅，帮会一名大佬递给虾仔一块蛋奶派和一个信封，里面装着3000美元。
Shrimp Boy’s first arrest and conviction came a year later, in 1978. He was charged with armed robbery after he held up a gambling den and was sentenced to 11 years. At San Quentin, he beat a man with a food tray — Shrimp Boy told me that he used it like a tennis racket: ‘‘backhand, forehand, backhand, forehand’’ — and landed himself in solitary. A prison psychologist told Shrimp Boy he needed a vocation outside of crime. He studied to become a deep-sea welder, but a prison riot broke out, and he couldn’t complete his training. So he started dealing heroin in prison instead.
虾仔第一次被捕获罪是在一年后的1978年。他因抢劫一家赌场而被控持械抢劫，被判处11年监禁。在圣昆丁监狱(San Quentin)，他因为用托盘打一名男子而被关禁闭。虾仔对我说，他用托盘就像用网球拍一样：“反手，正手，反手，正手。”监狱的心理医生对虾仔说，他需要一个远离犯罪的职业。于是，他学习当一名深海焊工。但后来，监狱发生暴乱，他没能完成培训。于是，他开始在监狱里贩卖海洛因。
Upon his release, in 1985, Shrimp Boy took a bus to San Francisco. At a Vietnamese noodle shop, he tried to motivate himself to buy the Chinese newspaper and look for a real job. But then he noticed some girls outside. Pretty classy for hookers, Shrimp Boy thought. Within an hour, he was talking with them about how much money they made through their pimps and whether they would rather work for him. He rented a big Victorian house, and within a matter of months, Shrimp Boy says, his escort business was producing more cash than he could handle. He started rolling profits into a variety of enterprises: cocaine distribution, fencing stolen weapons, Rolexes, jewelry and pills. Shrimp Boy talks about that stage of his life as normal people often talk about college: Crazy time! Learned a lot! Needed to grow up and move on.
1985年一获释，虾仔就坐上了去旧金山的公交车。在一家越南面馆，他试图鼓励自己买中文报纸，并找一份正经的工作。但就在那时，他注意到面馆外有一些姑娘，心想作为妓女来说，算是很时尚了。过了不到一个小时，他已经在和那些姑娘聊她们通过各自的皮条客能赚多少钱，以及愿不愿意给他效力了。他租下了一座维多利亚风格的大房子。虾仔说，仅仅是几个月的功夫，他的陪侍生意赚的钱就花不过来了。他开始把利润投进各种各样的企业：可卡因分销，以及对偷来的武器、劳力士、珠宝和药物进行销赃。虾仔说起自己人生的这个阶段时，就像普通人常说起自己的大学生活一样：很疯狂！学到了很多！需要成长和继续前进。
The first time Shrimp Boy tried to go straight, he says, was in 1989. He wanted to make his mother proud. She gave him a ritual bath with grapefruit leaves, to cleanse his spirit. Shrimp Boy found work at the Lucky market in Daly City, bagging groceries for $4.50 an hour. He worked hard and was promoted to janitorial staff at $7.25 — but then, he says, a member of the San Francisco Police Department’s gang task force called his boss, who became suspicious, and Shrimp Boy left his job. Next he found employment as a bodyguard, a slippery slope. One night he was working in a casino in Oakland, looking sharp and professional in his sleeveless undershirt and double-breasted suit, and before Shrimp Boy knew it he was walking around Stow Lake, in Golden Gate Park, with Peter Chong, a leader of a Hong Kong gang called Wo Hop To, talking about uniting the East Coast and West Coast heroin trades.
他说，自己第一次尝试改过自新是在1989年。他想让自己的母亲感到骄傲。她用葡萄柚叶子给他举行沐浴仪式，净化他的灵魂。虾仔在戴利城的好运市场找到了给食品杂货装袋的工作，工资是每小时4.5美元。工作努力的他还被提拔为清洁工，工资也涨到了每小时7.25美元。但这时候，他说，他的老板接到了旧金山警察局反黑工作组的一名成员打来的电话，之后就起了疑心。于是，虾仔辞职了。他找了一份当保镖的工作，而这是一条通向犯罪的道路。一天晚上，他穿着无袖汗衫和双排扣西装在奥克兰一家赌场上班，看上去既时髦又专业。紧接着没多久，虾仔便已经在和香港黑帮和合桃(Wo Hop To)的头目庄炳强(Peter Chong)一边沿着金门公园的史托湖散步，一边讨论联合东西海岸的海洛因贸易了。
In April 1992, Shrimp Boy flew to New York to meet with gang leaders in Chinatown. Soon after, documents show, he was arrested and charged with 48 counts, among them RICO activities (the acronym refers to charges under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act), conspiracy to distribute heroin and cocaine, murder for hire, cocaine possession, arson, unlicensed firearm sales and transfers and a slew of interstate-commerce crimes — so many charges that the government split the case into two trials. Chong, meanwhile, fled to Hong Kong.
1992年，虾仔飞到纽约与几名华埠黑帮首领见面。有文件显示，不久他就被捕，并被指控犯下48项罪名，包括违反《美国防止诈骗及反黑法》（Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act，简称RICO）的犯罪活动、密谋分销海洛因和可卡因、受雇杀人、私藏可卡因毒品、纵火、非法销售和转让枪支，以及大量州际商业犯罪活动，需要审判的罪行数目如此之多，以至美国政府将之分成两个案子进行审理。与此同时，庄炳强逃到了香港。
Shrimp Boy’s credo was: Never cooperate with the government. If you do, you have to debrief, or snitch — outlaw suicide. But to Shrimp Boy’s dismay, by the time the first of his two cases reached trial, in 1995, many of his associates had ratted him out. In his first trial, he was found guilty on six counts; he was later sentenced to 24 years. (The second trial ended in a hung jury.) Once incarcerated at California’s Federal Correctional Institute, Dublin, Shrimp Boy says, he reached out to his tong to evaluate the loyalty of his underlings. He found that they had turned on him. Shortly after, Chong, who had been extradited to the United States, betrayed Shrimp Boy as well — or so Shrimp Boy claims — by hiring away the attorney who represented Shrimp Boy in the second trial.
虾仔过去的信条是：永远不要和政府合作。如果选择了这条路，就要向他们汇报或告密——相当于终结歹徒生涯。但让虾仔失望的是，当他的第一个案子在1995年进行审理时，他的很多帮会同伴都出卖了他。在第一个案子的审判中，他有六项罪名被宣布成立；之后他被判处24年监禁。（第二个案子的审判以陪审团无法做出判决而告终。）虾仔表示，被关押到位于都柏林的加州联邦惩教所(Federal Correctional Institute)后，他主动联系了自己的帮会，以评估其手下的忠诚度，结果发现他们已经背叛了他。不久后，被引渡回美国的庄炳强也背叛了虾仔——至少虾仔是这么讲——他聘请了虾仔第二个案子的辩护律师。
Shrimp Boy’s world crumbled: A gangster without a code or crew is just a lone felon. In 2000, in a prison conference room, Shrimp Boy says, he accepted a plea deal and decided to give up the underworld. Documents show that the government promised him a new life under the witness-protection program, an S visa (residence for a witness who assists law enforcement) and release on time served. In exchange, Shrimp Boy would testify against Chong. (Chong served time for racketeering and was released in 2008.) Shrimp Boy describes this act of testifying — aiding the United States attorney, selling out his onetime partner and the only set of values he had ever known — as the hardest experience of his life.
虾仔的世界坍塌了：一个没有规则可循或没有帮众的歹徒，只是一个孤零零的重罪囚犯。2000年，虾仔在一个监狱会议室里表示，他接受认罪协议，决定告别黑社会。有文件显示，政府承诺，在证人保护计划之下，会给他提供过上新生活的机会——一个S签证（为协助执法的证人提供的居留权），并立即释放他。作为交换，虾仔将作为污点证人出庭指证庄炳强。（庄炳强因诈骗罪入狱，在2008年被释放。）虾仔说，这次出庭作证——帮助联邦检察官，出卖自己之前的同伴，以及背叛他所秉持的唯一一套价值观——是他一生中最艰难的经历。