One day five years ago, Shrimp Boy found himself in a hardware store in Chinatown in San Francisco, buying big plastic paint buckets to make pruno. Pruno is jailhouse wine, and Shrimp Boy was an experienced vintner, though he had only ever made pruno in an empty fire extinguisher, because that’s how the masters make it in prison. Yet there Shrimp Boy was, a middle-aged former Chinese-mafia don, now a free man, living at his girlfriend’s condo in San Francisco’s Potrero Hill neighborhood, trying to become what he called ‘‘normal’’ — a state he found exotic and thrilling. Normal, to Shrimp Boy, included mild environmentalism, like conserving gas (‘‘Nobody in prison thinks about the next generation!’’); scooping up after his girlfriend’s dogs, a terrier named Happy and a mastiff named Valentine; and hosting dinner parties, like the one for which he was making pruno. The entire menu was prison food. His girlfriend was curious about it, and he wanted to please her. As Shrimp Boy told me recently: ‘‘I learned a lot from normal people. She’s very square, strict.’’
五年前的一天，“虾仔”出现在旧金山华埠一家五金店里，他要买大塑料漆桶，用来制作pruno。pruno是一种监狱里酿的酒，虾仔是个经验丰富的酿酒师，尽管他此前只在空灭火器里制作过这种酒，因为这是监狱里的能手们采用的方法。不过在当时，这位已届中年的华人黑帮前首领，住在他女朋友位于旧金山波特雷罗山社区的共管公寓里，正努力过上他所说的“正常”生活。他觉得这种生活很不一样，让人兴奋。对他来说，“正常”包括温和的环境保护活动，诸如节约汽油（“监狱里没人考虑下一代！”）；照顾女朋友的狗，一只名为高兴(Happy)的梗犬和一只名为瓦伦丁(Valentine)的獒犬，并在遛狗时收起他们的大便；还有举办小型晚宴，他当时酿造pruno酒就是为了这样的聚会。聚会的菜品都是他以前在监狱里吃的东西。他女朋友对这个很好奇，而他想取悦她。就像虾仔最近告诉我的：“我从普通人那里学到了很多东西。她非常正直、严格。”
Shrimp Boy’s prison-party dishes included a dip made with smoked oysters ­(available in the commissary) and ‘‘the tuna and the jalapeño, green onions and mayonnaise,’’ he said. ‘‘We put that on a Ritz cracker or corn chip — that’s a very good spread. We also make the pork- and the chicken-tamale-egg-roll kind of thing.’’ The tamale-egg-roll kind of thing, which Shrimp Boy ate when he could abscond with some leftover grits from breakfast in prison, is made by spreading the cooled, thickened grits out flat like sushi rice, adding a chicken or pork filling, rolling it all up, wrapping the log in a damp paper towel and a piece of plastic trash bag and steaming it in a microwave. Shrimp Boy’s pruno is a classic blend: grapefruit juice (for acid), apple juice (for sugar), bread (for yeast) and orange slices. Eight days before the party, Shrimp Boy placed all the ingredients in a paint bucket, then left the bucket on his girlfriend’s porch, in the sun, so its contents could ferment. A couple of hours before the guests arrived, Shrimp Boy strained the pruno through his girlfriend’s stockings. ‘‘I felt pretty funny about that,’’ he told me, as if he strongly suspected that this wasn’t normal but wasn’t totally sure.
在虾仔的监狱风格菜品中，有一种蘸酱，是用熏制的牡蛎（可以在杂货店买到）、“金枪鱼、墨西哥辣椒、大葱和蛋黄酱”制成，他说。“我们把酱放在Ritz脆饼或炸玉米片上——这种酱非常棒。我们也做类似墨西哥粽子的猪肉和鸡肉卷之类的食物。”在监狱里能偷偷藏起一些早餐吃剩的粗玉米粉时，虾仔就会做这种肉卷吃，方法是像制作寿司米饭那样，把粘稠的冷却玉米糊铺平、压紧，放上鸡肉或猪肉料，卷成卷，用湿纸巾包起来，再裹上塑料垃圾袋，放在微波炉里蒸熟。虾仔的pruno酒配料相当经典：包含葡萄柚汁（含酸性物质）、苹果汁（含糖）、面包（含酵母菌）和橙子薄片。在距离举办聚会的日子还有八天的时候，虾仔将这些配料放入一个漆桶里，然后把桶放在女朋友家走廊上有阳光的地方，这样里面的配料就可以发酵。在客人到达几小时前，“虾仔”用女朋友的丝袜滤掉酒渣。“我觉得那个挺好笑的，”他告诉我，好像他十分怀疑这种行为不太正常，但又不完全确定。
Shrimp Boy met his girlfriend, Alicia Lo, one night in a club in 2008. Lo is a U.C. Berkeley graduate from the upscale Bay Area suburb Walnut Creek, beautiful, the mother of an 11-year-old daughter and fairly normal, though not so normal that she wouldn’t date Shrimp Boy. (His given name is Kwok Cheung Chow; Lo calls him Raymond, the name a teacher gave him during the one month he attended high school. Shrimp Boy calls himself Shrimp Boy.) When Lo began Shrimp Boy’s re-education, she told me, she treated him ‘‘as a foreigner’’ or ‘‘like a baby.’’ ‘‘He was so out of place in society,’’ she said. ‘‘He drove an old bulletproof Mercedes.’’ So Lo started teaching Shrimp Boy the contemporary San Francisco basics: to hold her daughter’s hand when crossing the street, to not throw trash out car windows, to put the recycling in the blue garbage can and the vegetable scraps in the green compost one.
2008年的一个晚上，虾仔在一家夜店遇到了后来成为他女朋友的艾丽西亚·罗(Alicia Lo，音)。美丽的罗女士来自湾区优质郊区社区核桃溪(Walnut Creek)，是加州大学伯克利分校的毕业生，有一个11岁的女儿。她相当正常，当然也没有正常到不和虾仔这样的人约会的地步。（虾仔本名周国祥；罗女士叫他雷蒙德[Raymond]。这个英文名是他之前上了一个月高中期间一位老师给他起的。他则叫自己“虾仔”。）罗女士告诉我，当她开始对虾仔进行再教育时，就像对待一个“外国人”或“婴儿”。“在社会上，他显得特别不合时宜，”她说。“他那时开的是一辆防弹奔驰车。”所以罗女士开始教虾仔在如今的旧金山生活的一些基本常识：过马路的时候拉着她女儿的手，不向车窗外扔垃圾，将可以回收的垃圾扔在蓝色垃圾箱里，将蔬菜等剩饭倒进绿色堆肥桶里。
Shrimp Boy’s transition from gang boss to upstanding citizen was not always easy. For instance, Shrimp Boy organized a field trip for students at Lo’s daughter’s school to participate in the Chinese New Year parade. But some parents complained that a man who had spent close to two decades in prison should not be involved with children. Shrimp Boy’s feelings were badly hurt when the principal informed him that he could no longer volunteer. Shrimp Boy made some more egregious missteps too. While taping a 2008 segment for the TV series ‘‘Gangland,’’ he gloated, ‘‘In this city, I’m the man that calls the shots.’’ (He later attributed this to a grammatical error; Shrimp Boy learned English as a second language, and he said he meant to use the past tense — that he was the man who called the shots.) In hindsight, Shrimp Boy also probably should not have worn all white to the funeral of a murdered rival Chinese gang leader in 2006.
对虾仔来说，从黑帮大佬到正直公民的转变，并非总是一帆风顺。比如，虾仔曾经为罗女士的女儿所在学校的学生们组织过一次参加农历新年大游行的校外活动。但一些家长提出抗议，表示一个曾在监狱里待了将近二十年的人不该跟孩子们扯上关系。当校长通知虾仔，他不能再提供志愿服务时，他感觉特别受伤。他也有过一些更为严重的过失。2008年在纪录片《黑帮》(Gangland)中出镜时，他得意忘形地说，“在这个城市，我说了算。”（后来他将之归于语法错误；英语对虾仔来说是第二语言，他说自己的原意是要用过去时，即他过去说了算。）事后回想，虾仔可能也不该在2006年的时候穿着一身白去参加被谋杀的敌对华人黑帮头目的葬礼。
But given where he came from — as a United States attorney put it in a recent court filing, he has an ‘‘extensive and horrible criminal record’’ involving ‘‘almost all manner of racketeering possible’’ — he did pretty well. He counseled at-risk high-school students about addiction to crime. Shrimp Boy worked with a ghostwriter on a memoir he titled ‘‘Son of the Underworld.’’ He gave advice to young men who sought him out — what to do if, say, you fall in love with a prostitute and want to take her home to your Chinese parents. He told fellow ex-cons about the solace he found in Lo’s dogs. He cooked oxtail soup, enjoyed Marvel comics and learned to paint faces to entertain Lo’s daughter after school.
但考虑到他之前的背景——就像一名联邦检察官在近期的一份法庭文件中所写的，他“有非常广泛的骇人听闻的犯罪记录”，“涉及各种可能的诈骗形式”——虾仔的转变相当大。他为有危险倾向的高中生解答有关犯罪嗜好的问题。他和一名代笔人合写了一本回忆录，并将其命名为《黑社会之子》(Son of the Underworld)。他给向他求助的年轻人提供建议——比如，倘若你爱上了一个妓女而且想带她回家见中国父母，你该怎么做。他告诉跟他一样有犯罪史的人，自己从罗女士的两条狗那里获得了慰藉。他会做牛尾汤，喜欢看漫威(Marvel)漫画，学会了在罗女士的女儿放学后画花自己的脸逗她乐。
But at dawn on March 26, 2014, while Shrimp Boy, Lo and her daughter were asleep in her home, law-enforcement officers broke down the front door, semiautomatic weapons drawn. ‘‘That didn’t scare me,’’ Shrimp Boy said. ‘‘What really scared me was worrying about Alicia and her daughter and the two dogs. They never had that kind of thing around.’’ To minimize the havoc — it was a school day — Shrimp Boy cooperated, and as he lay on the living-room floor in handcuffs, with more than a dozen people standing above him, he thought back through his recent activities. ‘‘I didn’t sell no drugs,’’ he recalled thinking. ‘‘I didn’t have no gun. I didn’t have no money.’’ Then, he said: ‘‘I kind of laughed. What I did is O.K.! I’m a changed man!’’
但是，在2014年3月26日，天刚亮，虾仔、罗女士和她的女儿还在家里睡觉的时候，执法人员撞开大门，拔出了半自动武器。“那种事不会吓到我，”虾仔说。“真正让我担心的是艾丽西亚和她女儿，还有那两只狗。她们从没经历过这种事。”为了让事态最小化——那天是正常上学的日子——虾仔配合了警方的行动。身上压着十几号人、带着手铐趴在客厅地板上时，他回想了一下自己最近的活动。“我没有卖毒品，”他记得自己当时想。“我没有枪，也没有钱。”然后，他说：“我差点笑了。我做的事没什么问题！我重新做人了！”