The 137-page affidavit of Special Agent Emmanuel Pascua, the document that led to Shrimp Boy’s most recent arrest, is a great read for a legal filing — drama, comedy, classical Greek tragedy, all right there on paper. It recounts the story of Operation Whitesuit, laying out the case against ‘‘Kwok Cheung Chow, a.k.a. Raymond Chow, a.k.a. Shrimp Boy, a.k.a. Ha Jai, hereinafter Chow,’’ along with 25 other Bay Area residents, including State Senator Leland Yee. (Yee and three other defendants pleaded guilty in July.) The F.B.I.’s most prominent informant is identified only as UCE (undercover employee) 4599. He posed as an East Coast emissary from La Cosa Nostra looking to make a name for himself on the West Coast. UCE 4599 met Shrimp Boy in May 2010. For the next four years, he ingratiated himself into Shrimp Boy’s world.
作为一份法律文件，特别探员伊曼纽尔·帕斯夸(Emmanuel Pascua)提交的137页证词颇具可读性——正剧、喜剧和古典希腊悲剧，各种元素齐全。正是这份文件导致虾仔最近的这次被捕。它详细描述了“白衣行动” (Operation Whitesuit)的情况，摆出这起针对“周国祥(Kwok Cheung Chow)，又名雷蒙德·周(Raymond Chow)、‘虾仔’，下文中称其为周”，和包括州参议员余胤良(Leland Yee)在内的其他25名湾区居民的案子的始末。（余胤良和另外三名被告今年7月已经认罪。）联邦调查局(FBI)最重要的线人在其中只用UCE 4599这一编号指代。UCE是undercover employee的缩写，指卧底雇员。他伪装成从美国东海岸的西西里黑手党(La Cosa Nostra)过来，想在西海岸扬名立万。UCE 4599在2010年5月认识了虾仔。在接下来四年里，他极力讨好虾仔，以进入他的世界。
As Shrimp Boy explained to me over our many visits and phone calls, after he cut his deal with the federal government, things did not go as planned. Shrimp Boy was released on time served, but the government did not deliver the S visa or a new identity through witness protection. Instead, Shrimp Boy claims, the F.B.I. dropped him with an ankle monitor back in San Francisco — as bait to catch other criminals, he believes. At the time, he said, he had no real friends (who’s loyal to a snitch?), no legal means of earning money, no faith in gangsterism. Even if he had wanted to pursue organized crime, life was passing him by. ‘‘The new generation is about crime in the computer,’’ Shrimp Boy said — credit-card fraud, identity theft, cyber extortion. ‘‘I don’t even know how to use the computer.’’ Rudderless, Shrimp Boy lived with his brother and his brother’s girlfriend, who complained about how much toilet paper he used. He started having panic attacks. He visited a psychiatrist, who prescribed Ambien and sent him home.
在我多次探监和与他通电话的过程中，虾仔给出的解释是，在与联邦政府达成协议之后，事情并未按之前计划的那样发展。虾仔的确被立即释放，但政府没有通过证人保护计划给他提供S签证，或给他一个新身份。虾仔称，FBI转而在他的脚踝上安装了跟踪器，放他回旧金山。他认为这是要把他当鱼饵，用来抓捕其他罪犯。他说自己当时没有真正的朋友（谁会忠于一个告密者？），没有合法的赚钱手段，也不再相信帮会那一套。就算他当时想继续进行有组织犯罪，也已经跟不上时代了。“新一代都是利用计算机犯罪，”虾仔说，他指的是信用卡欺诈、身份盗窃、网络敲诈等。“我连计算机怎么用都不懂。”因为找不到方向，虾仔住在他兄弟及其女朋友的家里，后者抱怨他用了太多厕纸。他开始出现恐慌症的症状。去看心理医生的时候，对方开了点失眠药安必恩(Ambien)，就把他打发回去了。
Shrimp Boy says that at that point he ‘‘wanted to be part of society.’’ Toward that end, he started volunteering with gang-prevention organizations, telling high-school students to steer clear of trouble. As Shrimp Boy explains, ‘‘You get a gun, and then you want a bigger gun, and then you want a bigger gun. It’s human nature.’’ By 2007, Shrimp Boy was talking to dozens of community groups a year, including Asian-American studies classes at San Francisco State University. In 2009, he volunteered to organize San Francisco’s city-funded Chinatown Night Market — although when news of his involvement came to light, the city decided to skip the night market altogether that year. In 2012, Shrimp Boy spoke about his life to the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, at the request of Steven Ford, a lieutenant with the city’s police department. During these years, Shrimp Boy acknowledges, he also rebuilt his network in Chinatown. In 2006, the Ghee Kung Tong’s leader, known as the dragonhead, was murdered, and Shrimp Boy ascended to that role, though he claims he was assiduously clean.
虾仔说，当时他“想融入社会”。为此，他开始给帮派预防组织做义工，告诉高中生如何远离麻烦。就像虾仔解释的，“你有了一支枪，就会想要更大的枪，然后想要再大的。人性就是这样。”至2007年，虾仔一年要给几十个社区团体做演讲，包括旧金山州立大学(San Francisco State University)的亚裔美国人研究课程。2009年，他主动提出要组织市政府出资的旧金山华埠夜市，不过有他参与的消息曝光之后，市里决定那一年不再举办夜市活动。2012年，应市警察局警督史蒂芬·福特(Steven Ford)邀请，虾仔向旧金山商会(San Francisco Chamber of Commerce)讲述了自己的生平。虾仔承认，在这些年里，他在华埠重新建立起了自己的关系网。2006年，洪门致公堂(Ghee Kung Tong)首领——也称龙头大哥——被杀，虾仔登上堂主之位，不过他说自己绝对没有染指犯罪活动。
The affidavit of Special Agent Pascua indicates that during the years of Operation Whitesuit, Shrimp Boy was working on ‘‘a potential book deal and movie proposition regarding his life,’’ which would have allowed him to support himself legally. He was also dating Lo. When the two met in 2008, Lo told me, she considered herself to be ‘‘not such a good Chinese person.’’ She and Shrimp Boy fell in love and began a cultural exchange. Shrimp Boy took Lo to the tong, showed her how to bow down at the shrines and pay proper respects. Lo took Shrimp Boy to art openings, nice restaurants and the gay-pride parade.
帕斯夸探员的证词显示，“白衣行动”进行那几年，虾仔在筹划“以他的生平为主题，出一本书和拍一部电影”，这本书可以让他用合法收入养活自己。他当时也在和罗女士交往。罗女士告诉我，他们在2008年认识的时候，她觉得自己“算不上一个合格的华人”。和虾仔相爱之后，他们开始进行文化上的交流。虾仔会带罗女士去致公堂，给她展示如何在祠堂鞠躬和恰当地表达敬意。罗女士则带虾仔去参加艺术展开幕活动，去不错的餐厅吃饭，观看同志尊严游行。
During the time that Shrimp Boy was dragonhead, the affidavit also indicates, tong members sold drugs, contraband and illegal firearms; distributed drugs; and laundered money. Shrimp Boy deliberately maintained some distance from the crimes. As the affidavit reads, ‘‘Chow did not want to know anything because he would not be guilty if he did not know anything.’’
这份证词也显示，在虾仔担任致公堂龙头期间，其帮会成员曾销售毒品、走私物品和非法枪支，分销毒品及洗钱。虾仔故意和这些犯罪活动保持一定的距离。就像证词里所写，“周什么也不想知道，因为如果不知道这些事，他就没有犯罪。”
Shrimp Boy presented himself to UCE 4599 in mature, upstanding terms: ‘‘a judge within his organization’’; an esteemed elder dedicating his life to promoting ‘‘grand ideas’’; a tough guy who ‘‘could move hundreds of kilos of drugs if he wanted to,’’ but did not.
虾仔向UCE 4599展现的是一个成熟、正直的形象：“帮会里的和事佬”；将一生贡献于推广“宏大理念”的备受尊敬的长者；还是一个“如果愿意，可以倒手几百公斤毒品”的狠角色，但他没这么做。
To a reader of the affidavit, Shrimp Boy comes across as a man who likes the idea of being normal, who even makes moves in that direction, but who has a fuzzy understanding of the concept. At one point, after UCE 4599 closed a deal to sell stolen cigarettes to China, he thanked Shrimp Boy.
读完这份证词，会给人留下这样的印象——虾仔喜欢做正常人，甚至为此做了一些努力，但他对“正常”这个概念的理解比较模糊。有一次，UCE 4599在完成了一笔向中国销售盗窃香烟的生意之后，对虾仔表示感谢。
‘‘I never did anything,’’ Shrimp Boy said.
“我没有帮你什么，”虾仔说。
‘‘Well, I did,’’ said Shrimp Boy’s driver, George Nieh, who was standing there. UCE 4599 gave Nieh $5,000.
“嗯，是我，”站在一旁的虾仔的司机乔治·聂(George Nieh)说。UCE 4599就给了乔治5000美元。
Another time, UCE 4599 thanked Shrimp Boy for the opportunity to work with Nieh on a separate transaction, and he slipped an envelope containing $2,000 into Shrimp Boy’s pocket. ‘‘No, no, I didn’t give you the opportunity,’’ Shrimp Boy said. ‘‘You make your own opportunity.’’ He further protested: ‘‘Damn, that is bribery money, dude — that’s not good.’’ He did not give the money back.
还有一次，UCE 4599感谢虾仔让他有机会和乔治一起完成另一项交易，并将装有2000美元现金的信封塞到虾仔的衣兜里。“别，别，这机会不是我给的，”虾仔说。“是你自己争取的。”他进一步抗议：“该死，这是贿款啊，老兄，这可不好。”他并没有把钱退回去。
At moments in the affidavit, the relationship between Shrimp Boy and UCE 4599 comes across as intimate, close to tender. Shrimp Boy whispered in UCE 4599’s ear in a karaoke bar. He told UCE 4599 that he loved him. But Shrimp Boy also said to UCE 4599 that ‘‘if anything happened to him, the person who did it would pay a tremendous price, and their life would disappear.’’
有些证词内容让人感觉，虾仔和UCE 4599的关系很亲密，接近柔情。他曾在卡拉OK厅里对着UCE 4599的耳朵低语，说他喜欢他。但他也对UCE 4599说过，“如果他出什么事，害他的人不会被轻易饶过，他们的生活会一去不返。”
During the 19 months since his arrest, Shrimp Boy has been jogging in place in his cell, meditating and thinking about good and evil, whether he has lived a decent life. ‘‘Everybody has to grow up,’’ he told me. ‘‘I have to grow up more than most.’’ If he gets out, Shrimp Boy says, he will take care of his parents. He will pay taxes. Lo is not sure what their relationship will be when he gets out, but she still visits Shrimp Boy every weekend and attends his court hearings. ‘‘I love him so much,’’ she told me. But she needs a responsible adult in her life, a real partner, one who can read a grocery list and help fill out school forms.
被捕之后的19个月里，虾仔一直在自己的牢房里原地慢跑、做冥想，思考善与恶，思考自己以前的生活是否像样。“每个人都必须成长，”他告诉我。“我比大多数人更需要成长。”虾仔说，如果这次能出来，他会好好照顾自己的父母。他会交税。罗女士不确定虾仔出来时他们的关系会变成怎样，但她现在还是每周去看虾仔，也会出席他的聆讯。“我很爱他，”她告诉我。但生活中，她需要一个可靠的成年人，一位真正的伴侣，一个能读懂生鲜购物清单和帮她给女儿填写学校表格的人。
‘‘I know I caused the trouble,’’ Shrimp Boy says. ‘‘I would do anything to fix it.’’ He has many regrets. Chief among them is that he never had children. ‘‘I didn’t see that when I was younger,’’ he told me. ‘‘The guy staying home, spending most of his time with his family — I envy the man like that. I don’t have anything. I’m 55, and I’m still in a county jail.’’
“我知道是自己惹了麻烦，”虾仔说。“为了弥补，我愿意做任何事。”他有很多遗憾，其中最大的一个是没有孩子。“年轻的时候我意识不到这一点，”他告诉我。“呆在家里，花大多数时间陪家人，我羡慕这样的人。我什么也没有。55岁了，还是呆在一个县监狱里。”
Serra is eager for the courtroom drama to start. He described defending a client before a jury as ‘‘like an acid experience. You merge — it’s like shooting someone up into your veins.’’ He continues to see Shrimp Boy as ‘‘transparent, courageous, spiritual.’’ But the road to the Nov. 2 court date has been uneven. On Sept. 9, six of Shrimp Boy’s co-defendants pleaded guilty, including George Nieh. Those pleas cleared the way for Shrimp Boy to go to trial alone, which Serra thinks is to his advantage. Less auspicious, the United States attorneys recently informed the court that they have evidence linking Shrimp Boy to the murders of a tong leader and a lieutenant. The prosecution noted in a court filing that it will use the fact that Shrimp Boy ‘‘greenlighted’’ murder to highlight ‘‘the true nature of the enterprise run by Chow and his associates.’’ After all, the prosecution reminded the court, sanctioning an enemy’s death is not standard at ‘‘the Moose Lodge or the local Rotary Club or legitimate tongs.’’
塞拉盼着法庭辩护的到来。他说在陪审团面前为当事人做辩护时，感觉就“像服用了迷幻药，你会融入其中——好像把某人通过静脉注入了你的体内。”他依然认为，虾仔是个“坦白、勇敢和精神崇高”的人。但是，通往11月2日法院庭审的路，并不平坦。9月9日，虾仔的6名共同被告当庭认罪，其中包括乔治。因为这些人已经认罪，届时虾仔将单独受审，塞拉认为这种情况对他有利。而不太走运的是，联邦检察官最近告知法庭，他们掌握了一些证据，可以证明虾仔与谋杀一名帮派首领及一名副手的罪行有关联。检方在一份法庭文件中指出，将利用虾仔为谋杀“开绿灯”的事实，来突显“周及其下属运营的这个团伙的真实本质”。检方还提醒法庭，要知道，准许杀害一名敌手，可不是“穆斯社(Moose Lodge)、扶轮社(Rotary Club)的地方分会，或者合法堂口”会做的事。
Still, most days, Shrimp Boy remains upbeat. ‘‘I’m a good man, I’m a regular man,’’ he tells himself. When he is feeling down, he listens to the Operation Whitesuit recordings and feels better hearing himself refuse the many criminal offers. ‘‘So many times I’m sitting here, I done something wrong!’’ he said. ‘‘Old temptations and addictions, I didn’t fall for that. Wow. I turned down a lot of opportunity.’’
不过，大多数时间，虾仔依然很乐观。“我是好人，我是个普通人，”他告诉自己。情绪低落的时候，他就听“白衣行动”的录音资料，听到自己拒绝了很多参加犯罪活动的机会，就会感觉好些。“那么多次我坐在这里，我知道自己做错了一些事！”他说。“但那些老诱惑和老瘾，我都没有上钩。哇！我拒绝了好多机会。”
He is especially proud of his discipline. ‘‘It’s like they baked me this cake, this delicious cake, and tried to get me to eat it, even rubbed it in my face,’’ he said. ‘‘But I didn’t eat it. I stuck to my diet.’’
他对自己如此自律尤其感到骄傲。“就好像他们给我烤了个蛋糕，美味可口的蛋糕，试图让我吃，甚至还把它抹到我的脸上，”他说。“但我没吃，我还是坚持控制饮食。”