On Nov. 2, in Judge Charles Breyer’s courtroom at the Federal District Court for the Northern District of California, Shrimp Boy, who is 55, is scheduled to stand trial on 140 counts, including racketeering, money laundering, conspiracy and trafficking in contraband cigarettes. Between 2008 and 2014, the F.B.I. ran a sting called Operation Whitesuit. Confidential informants infiltrated San Francisco’s Chinatown and presented Shrimp Boy, who the government claims was back in the gang business, with opportunities to participate in crimes, including drug trafficking and murder for hire. Shrimp Boy claims he abstained.
11月2日，在北加州联邦地区法院由查尔斯·布雷耶法官(Charles Breyer)主持的审判室内，55岁的“虾仔”将以敲诈、洗钱、密谋和走私违禁香烟等140项罪名接受审判。在2008年至2014年间，联邦调查局(FBI)开展了一项名为“白衣行动”(Operation Whitesuit)的诱捕活动。他们安排秘密线人潜入旧金山华埠，向政府宣称已经重返黑帮的虾仔，提供包括走私毒品和受雇杀人在内的犯罪机会。虾仔称，他对这些机会予以了回避。
Shrimp Boy and his lead lawyer, J. Tony Serra, are both characters from a bygone San Francisco. Shrimp Boy describes Serra, who is 80, as ‘‘an old, very old wizard.’’ Earlier in his career, in 1979, Serra successfully defended the Black Panther Party co-founder Huey Newton against the charge of murdering a prostitute. He has also represented members of the Hells Angels, Earth First! and the Symbionese Liberation Army, the revolutionary group that kidnapped Patty Hearst. His office is filled with threadbare furniture and Grateful Dead posters, as well as posters featuring the work of his younger brother, the sculptor Richard Serra. They have been estranged for almost 40 years, since their mother committed suicide by walking into the Pacific Ocean.
虾仔和他的首席律师J·托尼·塞拉(J. Tony Serra)都是来自旧金山过去那个时代的人物。虾仔形容80岁的塞拉是“很老很老的巫师”。在他职业生涯前期的1979年，塞拉为美国黑人民族主义组织黑豹党(Black Panther Party)联合创建人休伊·牛顿(Huey Newton)进行了成功的辩护，使之摆脱了谋杀一名妓女的指控。他代理的客户还包括摩托车黑帮组织“地狱天使”(Hells Angels)、极端环保组织“地球优先”(Earth First!)和曾经绑架报业集团继承人帕蒂·赫斯特(Patty Hearst)的革命组织共生解放军(Symbionese Liberation Army)的成员。他的办公室里塞满了破旧的家具，张贴着许多“感恩而死”(Grateful Dead)乐队的海报，还有他的弟弟、雕塑家理查德·塞拉(Richard Serra)作品的宣传海报。自从他们的母亲在40年前走进太平洋自杀后，兄弟俩一直彼此疏远。
‘‘I’m just so happy I’m not dead,’’ Serra, who has thinning white hair and less than a full set of teeth, told me on a recent Sunday morning at his office. He wore a tie-dye T-shirt that looked new. Within 10 minutes of my arrival, Serra described Shrimp Boy to me as ‘‘beautiful.’’ When I asked what he meant, he said: ‘‘Every time I go to talk to Shrimp Boy, it’s like being in the presence of a holy man. He’s soft and gentle and considerate and empathetic.’’ For Serra, representing Shrimp Boy is an honor and a privilege. ‘‘This is the type of case that any politically inclined lawyer — this is your holy grail,’’ he said. ‘‘This is a government-created crime. This is a five-year and probably $3 million investigation.’’ He concluded: ‘‘I’m just delighted to take on the goddamn case.’’
“活到现在还没死，就够让人高兴的了，”不久前的一个周日上午，塞拉在他的办公室里这么对我说道。他身穿一件看起来比较新的扎染T恤，头上的白发日渐稀疏，牙齿也不完整了。我刚进屋不到十分钟，他就用了“美”这个词来形容虾仔。我问他这么说是指什么，他说：“每次我去和虾仔聊天，都感觉像在面对一个圣人。他温和、慈祥，又贴心，能体恤别人的感受。”对塞拉来说，为虾仔辩护是一项荣誉和特权。“这种案子是任何一名关心政治的律师都想接的，它就是圣杯，”他说。“这是一起政府制造出来的罪案。调查耗时五年，大概花费了300万美元。”他总结道：“能接这个该死的案子，我简直太高兴了。”
Serra grew up in a working-class family near San Francisco’s Ocean Beach. After playing football as an undergraduate at Stanford, he tried to become an expat writer in Morocco, but at that point he had never smoked a cigarette and was put off by the heroin and the opium. He returned to San Francisco, discovered the Haight and took a vow of poverty. He graduated from law school at U.C. Berkeley in 1961 and has worked almost exclusively pro bono since. Among Serra’s many strong beliefs is that nostalgia is a scourge — ‘‘the first sign of death,’’ he says. Still, it bears noting that one of the biggest cases of his early career also involved Chinatown. Serra exonerated, in a retrial, a Korean-American man convicted of the 1973 murder of a Chinatown gang leader. That case formed the basis of the 1989 movie ‘‘True Believer,’’ with James Woods starring as a character modeled on Serra.
塞拉在靠近旧金山欧申比奇的一个工人阶层家庭长大。以橄榄球运动员身份读完斯坦福大学后，他试过当一名旅居摩洛哥的作家，但那时候他连根烟都不曾抽过，便被那里的海洛因和鸦片文化吓到了。返回旧金山后，他发现了嬉皮聚居地黑什伯里，发誓要过上这种穷困生活。1961年塞拉从加州大学伯克利分校法学院毕业，之后就几乎一直只接公益性的案子。他有不少坚定的信念，比如怀旧是一种灾难，是“死亡的第一个征兆，”他说。尽管如此，有一段历史还是值得一提——他早期所接的一桩很大的案子也与华埠有关。一名韩裔美国男子被判在1973年谋杀一名华埠黑帮首领。但在复审中，塞拉使得此人宣告无罪。这起案件成为1989年的电影《法网终结者》(True Believer)的故事基础，詹姆斯·伍兹(James Woods)在其中扮演了以塞拉为原型的角色。
Serra himself has served two prison terms, as a tax resister — four months in 1974 and 10 months in 2005. He would be happy to serve a third, should anyone care to arrest him. He loves life on the inside — ‘‘It’s like locking a doctor who likes to practice medicine in a hospital,’’ he once said. Less felicitous, to Serra, is contemporary, gilded San Francisco. (‘‘Look out the window! Do you see the common man?’’) Serra has no bank account, no credit card and no cellphone. ‘‘My DNA is nonmaterialistic,’’ he explained. He abhors what he perceives as the extravagance of American law enforcement after Sept. 11: As part of the sting, F.B.I. informants ate meals with Shrimp Boy at the Four Seasons, the Fairmont and the Ritz, according to a co-defendant’s filing.
塞拉自己曾因拒绝交税而两次入狱，1974年他被关了4个月，2005年被关了10个月。如果有人要逮捕他，他很乐意再去蹲监狱。他喜欢里面的生活——“就好像把一个喜欢行医的医生关在医院里，”他曾经这么说。对塞拉而言，不那么令人愉快的反倒是现今这个镀金时代的旧金山。（“看看窗外！你能看到普通人吗？”）塞拉没有银行账户，没有信用卡，也没有手机。“我的DNA里没有物质主义的东西，”他解释说。他憎恶在他看来9·11事件之后滥用美国执法资源的行径：共同被告人的卷宗显示，作为诱捕行动的一部分，FBI线人曾和虾仔在四季(Four Seasons)、费尔蒙特(Fairmont)和丽思卡尔顿(Ritz)等高档酒店进餐。
A few weeks after Shrimp Boy’s arrest last March, Serra held a news conference. ‘‘These undercover agents sought to induce him, sought to involve him, sought to catch him in some overt act that represented criminal activity,’’ Serra told the journalists and friends of Shrimp Boy — many of whom were wearing ‘‘Free Shrimp Boy’’ T-shirts. ‘‘My client’s not a gangster.’’ The F.B.I., he said, ‘‘didn’t stop, you know, abort criminal activity that my client participated in.’’ Serra pointed to a picture of Shrimp Boy, who is 5-foot-4, nearly wrinkle-free and almost always smiling. ‘‘You saw a person,’’ Serra continued, ‘‘who is wholly dedicated to the Chinese culture. To love. Education. We represent an exemplary human being.’’ He paused to clarify for those familiar with the Shrimp Boy of the 1970s, ’80s and ’90s, a man who was convicted of racketeering, drug trafficking, arson, armed robbery and attempted murder. ‘‘I’m not talking before he went to prison,’’ Serra said. ‘‘I’m talking after he got out.’’
虾仔在去年3月被捕，几周后塞拉召开了一次新闻发布会。“这些卧底探员竭力引诱他，一心要让他卷入犯罪活动，试图逮着他在进行一些相当于犯罪的公开行为，”塞拉告诉记者和虾仔的朋友们，而这些朋友有不少穿着印有“释放虾仔”(Free Shrimp Boy)字样的T恤。“我的客户不是个歹徒。”他还说，FBI“没有阻止，你知道，就是没有取消我的客户参与的犯罪活动。”塞拉指向一张虾仔的照片。身高5英尺4英寸（约合1.65米）的虾仔脸上几乎没有皱纹，他几乎总是在笑。“你看到的这个人，”塞拉继续说，“完全献身于中华文化，献身于爱和教育。我们为之辩护的是一个堪称楷模的人。”他停顿了一下，为那些熟悉上世纪七八十年代和九十年代的虾仔的人们做一个澄清。当时的虾仔犯下了敲诈、毒品走私、纵火、持枪抢劫和谋杀未遂等罪名。“我说的不是进监狱之前的虾仔，”塞拉表示。“而是出来以后的虾仔。”
In Shrimp Boy’s pretrial defense, Serra, along with his co-counsel, Curtis Briggs, a former small-time criminal, has employed a legal strategy right out of the Merry Prankster handbook: Stand out, be aggressive and fight authority every step of the way. Serra, Briggs and other members of the team have accused the F.B.I. of racial profiling — setting a dragnet over Chinatown to catch Chinese people breaking the law. They have also demanded that Shrimp Boy’s case be dismissed on the grounds of selective prosecution: They argued in a motion that the same series of wiretaps that led to Shrimp Boy’s indictment also revealed that Mayor Ed Lee of San Francisco laundered campaign money. (The mayor’s office did not return calls and emails but has publicly denied this.) Judge Breyer ruled against the motion, but the local press ran with the story, which was largely the point.
在为虾仔做预审辩护时，塞拉及进行共同辩护的律师、曾犯下轻罪的柯蒂斯·布里格斯(Curtis Briggs)，采用了一种好像完全出自嬉皮士组织“快乐的恶作剧者”(Merry Prankster)行动指南的法律策略：站出来，积极强硬地和当局一步步战斗到底。塞拉、布里格斯和这个团队的其他成员指控FBI进行种族定性——在旧金山华埠撒网，专门为了抓到华人违法犯罪。他们还要求撤销虾仔的案子，理由是对方进行了选择性起诉：他们在一份动议书中称，导致虾仔被正式起诉的同系列窃听行动也暴露出，旧金山市长李孟贤(Ed Lee)存在清洗竞选资金的问题。（市长办公室没有回复时报记者的电话和邮件，不过该机构已公开否认了上述说法。）布雷耶法官否决了这一动议，但当地媒体对此进行了报道，而这在很大程度上正是他们想要的。
Serra is cynical about many things. He believes that ‘‘law is class struggle.’’ He believes that judges ‘‘are not referees, they are bullies,’’ and that they make decisions ‘‘based on their own moral perspective.’’ But Serra still believes in juries, believes they are ‘‘the last avenue to the common mentality, and there is something beautiful in the American mentality.’’ He sincerely believes that a jury will hear Shrimp Boy’s story and let him go. ‘‘We have a person who did have an epiphany,’’ he said about Shrimp Boy’s decision to go straight and live a normal life, a person who didn’t succumb to the government’s yearslong campaign to lure him back into crime.
塞拉对很多事情持怀疑态度。他认为“法律是阶级斗争”，认为法官“不是裁判，而是恃强凌弱的人”，他们“依据自己的道德观”判决。但塞拉相信陪审团，认为他们是“通向共识的最后途径，而美国民众的认知中有一些美好的东西。”他真诚地相信，陪审团会听进虾仔的故事，并会选择给他自由。谈到虾仔改过自新下决心过正常生活的时候，他说，“这个人真的有过顿悟觉醒。”他还指出，虾仔并没有屈从于政府持续多年诱惑他再次犯罪的行动。
The prosecution, on the other hand, argues that Shrimp Boy was employing a classic strategy: ‘‘He did not have to get his hands dirty committing crimes and could insulate himself — although he did it poorly in the end — from the crimes being committed around him,’’ the government wrote in a filing. ‘‘The jury should be permitted to understand that Chow’s techniques were taught to him by his prior dai los.’’ (Dai lo is the Cantonese term for big brother, or mob boss.) Still, Serra is confident. To win this case, and any case, he said, ‘‘You have to show you have the moral high ground — that you have transcended the conflict as defined by the prosecution.’’ He paused, then added: ‘‘I have the Buddha here.’’
而在另一边，检方认为虾仔采用的是一种经典策略：“他不必亲自参与犯罪，那样会弄脏自己的手。他可以让自己与围绕他进行的犯罪活动相隔绝，不过结果他做得也并不好，”代表政府的检方在起诉文件中写道。“应该让陪审团明白，周国祥的技巧是从他之前的大佬（广东话里对黑帮首领的称呼）那里学来的。”不过，塞拉仍然非常有信心。他说，要赢这场官司，要赢任何官司，“你必须显示出，你占据道德上的优势，这样你就超越了检方界定的冲突层面。”他停顿了一下，接着说：“佛陀站在我们这边。”