On the rooftops above the office canyons of Midtown Manhattan, there is a corporate life for bees where new colonies pollinate green roofs and produce honey for the lucky tenants working below.
在曼哈顿中城(Midtown Manhattan)林立的摩天写字楼之间，形成了一道道“峡谷”。俯瞰这些“峡谷”的绿化屋顶上，一片片蜂群在此繁衍生息，为屋顶的植物授粉的同时，也给楼下幸运的租户们带去了甘甜的花蜜。
At One Bryant Park last summer, Richard Kohlbrecher, who is allergic to bee venom, first saw hundreds of honeybees darting in and out of the sprawling sedum ground cover on the green roofs he was inspecting. He turned his initial alarm into a housing plan for the secret tenants.
去年夏天，对蜂毒过敏的理查德·科尔布雷希纳(Richard Kohlbrecher)在巡视布莱恩特公园1号（One Bryant Park，即美国银行大楼——译注）的屋顶时，第一次看到成百上千只蜜蜂在地表蔓生的景天科植物丛里飞进飞出。他起初惊恐不已，后来却萌生了为这些神秘来客制定一个“住房计划”的想法。
“I had never seen that before and it got me thinking: if there are that many bees in Midtown, maybe it makes sense to put up some hives,” said Mr. Kohlbrecher, vice president for operations for The Durst Organization, which owns the company’s 51-story-tower at 42nd Street and Sixth Avenue. The skyscraper houses the corporate and investment businesses of the Bank of America as well as Durst’s offices.
“我从没见过这样的景象，当时心里想：如果曼哈顿中城有如此多的蜜蜂，或许理所当然就该为它们设一些蜂箱，”科尔布雷希纳说。他是邓斯特房地产集团(The Durst Organization)负责运营的副总裁，而邓斯特集团在纽约第六大道(Sixth Avenue)和第42大街(42nd Street)交汇处拥有一栋51层的写字楼。这栋摩天大楼不仅是美国银行开展企业和投资业务的地方，也是邓斯特的办公所在地。
And so, unbeknown to the busy office workers and the tourists sunning themselves in Bryant Park, above them on the seventh-floor rooftop are now some 100,000 European honeybees brought in with two main hives earlier this summer.
就这样，今年夏天，这栋大厦在其七楼的屋顶上引进了两座大蜂箱及大约10万只欧洲蜜蜂。附近忙碌的工薪族和在布莱恩特公园(Bryant Park)晒太阳的游客并不知晓，在他们身边这栋高耸入云的写字楼屋顶上，住着这些神秘来客。
Perhaps it’s not surprising that Durst has become a proponent of beekeeping. The company has green roofs on eight of its commercial buildings. One Bryant Park, which received a LEED platinum rating from the United States Green Building Council, houses the corporate and investment businesses of the Bank of America as well as Durst’s offices. Its green features include a special air-filtration system that filters out 95 percent of particulate matter, an urban garden room within the lobby, and the green roofs, which use compost made from waste from the building’s cafeteria.
或许邓斯特公司大力倡导养蜂并不算出人意料。在该公司拥有的八座商业建筑中，每座建筑都设有绿化屋顶。而布莱恩特公园1号大楼还曾获得美国绿色建筑委员会(United States Green Building Council)的LEED铂金评级。那里不仅是美国银行开展企业和投资业务的地方，也是邓斯特的办公场所。大楼的绿化设施包括：一套能过滤95%的颗粒物的特殊空气过滤系统；一个位于一楼大堂的都市花园房(urban garden room)；还有绿化屋顶，其中施用的肥料就是用楼内自助餐厅的垃圾制成的堆肥。
And beekeeping has a long tradition in New York, now including such lofty perches as the terraces of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel and the Whitney Museum of Art.  In fact, beehives are becoming increasingly common across the city, said James Fischer, the director of education at TheHoneybeeConservancy.org, an advocacy group.
在纽约，养蜂是由来已久的传统。如今，蜂箱也开始进驻一些高档场所，比如华尔道夫酒店(Waldorf-Astoria Hotel)和惠特尼美术馆(Whitney Museum of Art)的露台。事实上，根据游说组织TheHoneybeeConservancy.org的教育总监詹姆斯·菲舍尔(James Fischer)的说法，蜂箱已成为纽约全城日益常见的景观。
That has accelerated in the last three years, since a ban on beekeeping instituted during the Giuliani administration was lifted.  And while there is no publicly available list of beehives’ locations in the city, a select number of private companies have begun employing them.  It is costly to plant a lot of sedum and it can take a season or two before it naturally fills out; bees are an inexpensive way to hasten this process. “They don’t like to make their beehives public because of some people’s fears,” Mr. Fischer said.
随着前市长朱利安尼(Giuliani)在任期间制定的养蜂禁令被废除，这一趋势在过去三年里进一步加剧。尽管尚无全市各处蜂箱所在地的公开清单，少数私营企业已开始雇佣这些蜜蜂们帮忙。大规模种植景天属植物的成本高昂，而且按自然规律，这种植物需要一、两个季度才能开花结果；而养蜂能大大加速这一进程，其成本也很低廉。“顾及到一些人的恐惧心理，他们（写字楼的所有者）不喜欢把养蜂的事情公开，”费舍尔表示。
Beekeeping has also been catching on atop buildings outside of New York. Earlier this summer, bee hives were added to the green roofs of the Minneapolis City Hall building, and similar environs have been encouraged in other urban areas with green roof habitats. In London, the number of urban beehives has exploded in recent years, to the point there was concern that the city had an insufficient supply of bee-friendly plants to feed the growing populations.
楼顶养蜂在纽约以外的地区也蔚然成风。今年初夏，明尼阿波利斯市政厅(Minneapolis City Hall)大楼的绿化屋顶安上了蜂箱；市区中其它带有绿化屋顶设施的建筑，也开始被鼓励营造类似的环境。在伦敦，蜂箱的数量近年来呈爆炸式增长，以至于人们开始担忧伦敦市内没有足够多适合蜜蜂的植物，来养活规模不断增长的蜂群。
In New York, where bees have yet to face any food shortages, anyone can keep a beehive as long as it is registered with the city’s Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and there is a water source, something as simple as a bucket filled with water.
在纽约，蜜蜂尚无食物短缺之虞，任何人只要在纽约市健康与心理卫生局(Department of Health and Mental Hygiene)注册，就可以养蜂。水源也不用担心，就是装满一桶水这么简单的事。
On the green roof at One Bryant Park, the bees’ natural pollination process helps maintain the area’s nearly 6,000 square feet, where the sedum was planted to help to reduce urban heat energy and runoff.
在布莱恩特公园1号大楼的绿化屋顶，蜜蜂的自然授粉进程有助于6000平方英尺（约合557.4平方米）绿化带的养护，而当中种植的景天属植物，则有助于减少城市热能和径流。
“Putting honeybees in a location supercharges the normal pollination process,” said Chase Emmons, a managing partner and the apiary director at Brooklyn Grange. The company, with locations in Long Island City and the Brooklyn Navy Yard, sold the Durst Organization its two beehives in June and is helping the company maintain them and harvest the honey.
“引进蜜蜂可以大大加速自然授粉进程，”布鲁克林农庄（Brooklyn Grange，一座屋顶农庄——译注）的执行合伙人、负责蜂房管理的切斯·埃蒙斯(Chase Emmons)表示。埃蒙斯的公司在长岛市(Long Island City)和布鲁克林海军造船厂（Brooklyn Navy Yard，原为造船厂，现为工业园区——译注）均设有农庄。今年6月，该公司向邓斯特集团销售了两个蜂箱，而目前他们正在帮助邓斯特集团保养蜂箱，收获蜂蜜。
The honeybees are a Russian variety, known for their hardiness and ability to survive cold Northeastern winters. That could come in handy because bees have been plagued in recent years by colony collapse disorder, a mysterious malady that has wiped out as much as 50 percent of the country’s commercial beehives in the last year alone.
蜂箱里的蜜蜂为俄罗斯品种，素以耐寒闻名，可以在东北部严寒的冬季生存下来。这一点正好帮上忙，因为近年来，蜂群衰竭失调症(colony collapse disorder)在本地蜜蜂中猖獗肆虐。单是去年，这种神秘疾病就席卷了全国50%的商业蜂箱。
Beekeeping is a relatively cheap endeavor. It can cost just $125 to buy a package of bees, and there is no real maintenance involved. Bees are typically bred in the south and shipped north in April, sent to beekeepers in a cage the size of a lunch box that can be mailed through the United States Postal Service. To buy a mature hive that is already producing honey, like the ones the Durst Organization has, can cost $300 to as high as $1,000.
养蜂是一项成本相对较低的工作。只要花125美元（约合765.1元人民币）就可以购买一包蜜蜂，而且不怎么需要养护。蜜蜂一般在南方养殖，每年4月被运送到北方，装在饭盒大小的笼子里，通过美国邮政署(United States Postal Service)的邮件服务递送到养蜂人手上。要购买如邓斯特集团所购的那种已经产蜜的成熟蜂箱，花费少则300美元（约合人民币1836.3元），多则1000美元（约合人民币6121.1元）。
The Durst Organization is using Langstroth hives, invented by the Rev. Lorenzo Lorraine Langstroth in Philadelphia, and patented in 1852. These hives resemble a filing cabinet with 10 frames inside that hang like files, covered in honeycomb. As the hive grows, additional cabinets can be stacked one atop another. Bees naturally tend to keep any excess honey in the top box.
邓斯特集团使用的是朗氏蜂箱(Langstroth hive)，由费城牧师洛伦佐·洛兰·兰斯特罗斯(Lorenzo Lorraine Langstroth)发明，并于1852年申请了专利。朗氏蜂箱的结构就像档案柜，内含10个被蜂巢覆盖的巢框，就悬挂在蜂箱内，好比档案柜里的文件一样。随着蜂巢的扩大，还可向上继续叠加新的蜂箱。蜜蜂一般会把多余的蜂蜜储存在最上层的蜂箱里。
The Langstroth hives are especially easy to inspect for disease and to harvest; beekeepers simply remove the top from the cabinet and pull out a frame. To harvest the honey, the beekeepers place the frames in a centrifuge that resembles a cotton candy spinner. “By spinning it, the centrifugal force sucks out the honey but doesn’t damage the wax honeycomb, so we can just put that back into the frames and the bees can get back to filling it with honey again,” Mr. Emmons said.
使用朗氏蜂箱，无论疫病监测还是收获蜂蜜都极为方便；只需移开蜂箱上盖，取出一个巢框即可。收获蜂蜜时，养蜂人则要将巢框放入棉花糖机一样的离心机里。“通过离心机的高速旋转，离心力可将蜂蜜分离出来，而不损坏蜂蜡修筑的蜂巢。取完蜂蜜后，只需要将巢框放回去，蜜蜂就可以再在上面储存蜂蜜了，”埃蒙斯说。
The Durst Organization plans to hand out the honey to its tenants as holiday gifts.
邓斯特集团打算向大楼的租户赠送蜂蜜，作为假日礼物。
While the bees’ pollination efforts can help maintain the health of green roofs, they are not commonly used for this purpose, mostly because of the fear of stings. Yet honeybees are inherently docile creatures, and in fact, they die after stinging. “So for evolutionary reasons, for a hive to expend the energy to defend itself, there has to be a clear or present danger,” Mr. Emmons said. But, he noted, “you wouldn’t want the Time Warner guy coming up to the roof to install a cable and accidentally stumbling onto a hive, so it is important to know who will be accessing the area.”
虽然蜜蜂的授粉有助于屋顶绿化植物的养护，但以此为目的的养蜂活动还不普遍，主要由于怕被蜂蜇。不过，蜜蜂是天性温顺的生物，它们蜇人之后自己也会死去。“所以出于进化机制，为了保卫蜂房，只有出现明确或迫在眉睫的危险时，它们才会蜇人，”埃蒙斯介绍。不过，他也指出，“你总不希望时代华纳的人突然跑到屋顶去安装电缆，然后不小心踩到蜂箱吧？所以重要的是，你得知道谁会接近养蜂区。”
So far, the bees at One Bryant Park have been so successful that next spring, the Durst Organization is hoping to add to its bee collection by buying several mason bee houses. Mason bees differ from honeybees in that they do not produce honey or beeswax, and do not live in hives. They live solitarily in tubes and holes. Also unlike the honeybee, they are indigenous to America. Buying the mason bees “is part of our philosophy of sustaining local flora and fauna and native pollinators,” said Jordan D. Barowitz, the director of external affairs at the Durst Organization.
目前，布莱恩特公园1号大楼的蜜蜂养殖颇为顺利，邓斯特集团希望明年春季再引进几个石蜂蜂箱。石蜂与蜜蜂不同，它们不产蜜、不产蜂蜡，也不群居在蜂箱里，而是独居在管道孔洞中。而且它们是土生土长的，而非引进品种。购买石蜂“体现了我们的环保理念，目的是维护本地动植物和传粉昆虫的可持续发展，”邓斯特集团的对外事务总监乔丹·D·巴洛维茨(Jordan D. Barowitz)表示。
As for Mr. Kohlbrecher, he said that he had gotten used to the idea of the hives. “It took me a long time to go within 10 feet of bees,” he said, but “you have to embrace your fears.”
至于科尔布雷希纳，他说自己已经习惯了屋顶有蜂房这件事。“我花了很长时间，才敢走近蜜蜂周围10英尺（约合3米）的范围，”他说，不过“你必须直面自己的恐惧。”