HANGZHOU, China — After moving into a new apartment in this city near Shanghai in August, Yuan Keru, a postgraduate student, and her boyfriend waited several months to buy furnishings for their new home. Finally, on Monday, they splurged.
中国杭州——在8月份搬进这座上海附近城市中的一幢新公寓后，硕士研究生袁可如和她的男朋友等了好几个月才给自己的新家添置家具。终于在周一，他们要痛快地花钱了。
At midnight, Ms. Yuan logged on to her laptop, clicked on the website of Tmall, an e-commerce site, and began shopping. She selected a floor lamp, a carpet and some wallpaper. Her boyfriend picked out a set of earphones. Finally, they added a cozy touch: his and hers cotton slippers for the winter.
刚刚进入周一零点，袁可如就在她的便携电脑上登录了电子商务网站天猫网，开始购物。她挑了一台落地台灯、一块地毯和一些墙纸。她的男朋友选了一套耳机。最后他们还给购物添上了温馨的一笔：买了女式和男式的冬用棉拖鞋。
In all, Ms. Yuan spent 1,500 renminbi, or nearly $250, before calling it a night. That, Ms. Yuan said, represented about half a month’s living costs for her.
这次购物让袁可如总共花掉1500元人民币。她说，这大概相当于她半个月的生活费。
“We love window-shopping in the local department store,” Ms. Yuan said. “But we have never spent so much money in one day. Never!”
袁可如说，“我们喜欢去逛当地的商场，但我们从来没有在一天内花过这么多钱。从没有过！”
Ms. Yuan and her boyfriend, a 3-D animator, were just two among tens of millions of Chinese consumers who took to the Internet on Monday for the latest edition of an annual one-day online shopping blowout that has ballooned into the world’s biggest e-commerce event.
袁可如和她的做3D动画工作的男朋友，只是上千万中国消费大军中的两员，这个大军都在周一加入到一年一度的疯狂采购行列，这个为时一天的网上购物节已成为世界上最大的电子商务活动。
Alibaba, the largest online retailer in China, said in advance of the promotion that it expected to sell more than 30 billion renminbi, or about $5 billion, worth of goods on Monday — two and a half times the total that “Cyber Monday,” the biggest e-commerce day of the year in the United States, yielded last year. By late afternoon, Alibaba had already logged more than 23.8 billion renminbi in sales via its online payment system, Alipay, surpassing the 19 billion renminbi total for the full day last year.
中国最大的电子商务零售商阿里巴巴在这次促销活动之前称，预计周一的销售额将超过300亿元人民币，这是美国最大的电子商务促销日“网购星期一”(Cyber Monday)去年当天销售额的2.5倍。到下午晚些时候，阿里巴巴已经通过其网上支付系统支付宝收到了238亿元人民币，超过去年这一天全天190亿元的销售额。
The promotion was pioneered five years ago by Alibaba, which owns Tmall and other e-commerce sites, when it latched on to an existing, unofficial Chinese holiday dubbed Singles’ Day. For some years previously, young Chinese men had been gathering once a year to lament — or raise a toast to — their single status. They chose Nov. 11 because it was the only day of the year when the calendar showed four 1’s, or “singles.”
促销活动是阿里巴巴5年前利用“光棍节”这个中国非官方的现成节日开始的，阿里巴巴拥有天猫和其他电子商务网站。几年前，中国的男青年开始了一个每年一次的聚会，在一起抱怨或举杯同庆自己的光棍身份。他们选择在11月11日这天，因为这是一年中唯一的四个“1”的日子，1表示“光棍”。
In a culture where young women face considerable pressure to marry by the age of 30 and where young men are expected to own a home before popping the question, this might have seemed like a rejection of cultural mores and consumerism alike. But, like Columbus Day sales in the United States, Singles’ Day retains little connection with the people or events that inspired it. As a red letter day for shoppers, it has spread beyond lonely-hearts to Chinese consumers of all kinds — single or married, male or female, young or old, urban or rural.
在中国文化中，女青年面临着需要在30岁之前结婚的巨大压力，男青年面临着在求婚之前已拥有一套房子的期待，因此，“光棍节”似乎看起来既有拒绝文化习俗、也有抵制消费主义的意味。但是，就像美国的“哥伦布日”(Columbus Day)促销一样，“光棍节”促销与启发该节日的人或事已没有什么联系。作为一个购物狂欢节，它早已超出单身者的范围，参加的人包括了中国各阶层的消费者：单身、已婚、男女老少、城乡居民。
“Chinese people love to shop,” said Eric Wong, managing director for Greater China at Possible, an e-commerce strategy company, in Shanghai. “If you have the right excuse and the right occasion, they will spend money. One of the tactics to get people to buy is to create a more festive occasion.”
上海一家电子商务战略公司Possible大中华区董事总经理黄鼎翔说，“中国人喜欢购物。如果有合适的理由和机会，他们就会花钱。吸引人购物的一个方法是制造一种更具节日气氛的场合。”
The one-day shopping craze highlights the frenetic growth of e-commerce in China. The country is set to overtake the United States this year as the largest online shopping market in the world, according to Forrester Research. Chinese consumers are predicted to spend $290 billion at online retail sites this year, compared with $260 billion for their United States counterparts.
这个为时一天的购物狂欢节突显了中国电子商务的飞快增长。根据弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)数据统计，中国今年将超过美国成为世界上最大的网上购物市场。中国消费者今年在网上购物花的钱预计将达到2900亿美元（约合1.77万亿元人民币），而美国的同类花销预计是2600亿美元。
Bain, a consulting firm, expects online shopping in China to grow at an annual rate of 32 percent from this year through 2015.
贝恩咨询公司(Bain Consulting)预计从今年起到2015年，中国网上购物每年将以32%的速度增长。
That is a slowdown from the 71 percent rate recorded from 2009 through 2012, but still well above the 13 percent average rate expected for 2009 through 2015 in the United States. In 2015, the firm forecasts, e-commerce will total 3.3 trillion renminbi in China.
这比从2009年到2012年年均71%的增长率要低，但比美国从2009年到2015年的预计13%的年均增长率要高。这家公司预计，2015年中国的电子商务总额将达到3.3万亿元人民币。
“Chinese consumers are bargain-hunters, and that is what is driving the success of 11/11,” said Serge Hoffmann, a partner at Bain in Hong Kong.
贝恩咨询公司在香港的合伙人瑟奇·霍夫曼(Serge Hoffmann)说，“中国消费者喜欢优惠活动，这就是11月11日能获得成功的背后驱动力。”
And while Ms. Yuan and her boyfriend were looking for bargains, not everyone was pinching pennies. On Monday afternoon, Alibaba announced to the more than 300 journalists who had gathered at its headquarters in Hangzhou for updates on the sales that a woman from Zhejiang Province had bought a 13.33-carat diamond, costing 20.5 million renminbi.
虽然袁可如和她的男朋友受了优惠的吸引，但并非每个人都是为了省钱。周一下午，阿里巴巴对聚集在其位于杭州总部、等待其更新销售信息的300多名记者说，浙江省一名女子花2050万元人民币购买了一颗13.33克拉的钻石。
While it was Alibaba that turned Singles’ Day into a shopping event, other e-commerce companies are getting in on the action, including the Chinese version of Amazon.com. Another online retailer, Dangdang.com, tried to get a jump on Alibaba by starting its 11/11 sale three days earlier.
虽然把“光棍节”变成购物节是阿里巴巴搞起来的，但其他电子商务公司也努力加入进来，其中包括中国亚马逊。另一家电子零售商当当网还试图抢到阿里巴巴的前面，提前3天就开始了其“光棍节”促销活动。
International marketing giants like Nike, Adidas, Procter & Gamble, Unilever and Samsung Electronics conducted Singles’ Day promotions, many of them using Tmall. Western brand owners, in particular, have eagerly embraced e-commerce as a way to sell to Chinese shoppers in remote areas, where few of them have brick-and-mortar stores.
耐克(Nike)、阿迪达斯(Adidas)、宝洁(Procter & Gamble)、联合利华(Unilever)和三星电子(Samsung Electronics)等国际大品牌也参与了“光棍节”活动，它们当中不少是通过天猫进行促销。西方品牌尤其欢迎电子商务，通过这一渠道他们能向边远地区的中国消费者进行销售，因为这些公司中很少有在边远地区开实体店的。
“Online is giving them a much more effective way of reaching these consumers,” said Bryan Wang, an analyst at Forrester.
弗雷斯特研究公司分析师王平(Bryan Wang)说，“网络让他们有一个更有效的渠道对这些消费者进行销售。”
The rapid adoption of smartphones in China has made it even easier for these customers to shop from their homes or their workplaces — or while out and about.
智能手机在中国的快速普及也让消费者购物变得更方便，不管是在家里、还是在工作单位，或是在外面的路上。
In the first hour of sales, from midnight to 1 a.m. Monday, Alibaba said 24 percent of the orders came in via smartphones.
阿里巴巴称，从周一夜里零点到1点的最初一个小时的销售额中，有24%是通过智能手机下的订单。
E-commerce shopping companies like Alibaba built anticipation for 11/11 by letting consumers put items into online shopping carts before the sales actually began. Tmall said five million customers had already selected more than 40 items each by Sunday evening.
阿里巴巴等电子商务公司允许消费者在11月11日促销正式开始前就将看好的物品放进购物筐，以此增加了人们对这一天的期待。天猫称，到周日晚上已经有500万顾客平均每人选择了40多种物品。
In preparation for Singles’ Day, Alibaba added extra bandwidth and logistical facilities to deal with an expected surge in demand. By late afternoon, the Alibaba platform had created 102 million parcel orders.
为了准备“光棍节”促销，阿里巴巴额外增加了网络带宽和物流服务，以应对预计出现的需求激增。到下午晚些时候，阿里巴巴的网购平台已经产生了1.02亿份货物订单。
Online retailers had a range of discounts Monday, with the Chinese version of Amazon offering reductions of as much as 90 percent. An LG 47-inch, 3-D television was going for 5,999 renminbi, billed as a reduction of 37 percent.
网上零售商周一提供了不同程度的打折，中国亚马逊提供的减价折扣最高达一折。一台LG47英寸的3-D电视机售价为5999元，公司称比原价降低37%。
Amid the bargains, however, there were also plenty of outdated or no- brand products.
然而在这些促销活动中也有很多过时或没有品牌的商品。
For Alibaba, which has been preparing for an initial public offering, a major benefit of Singles’ Day is promotional, a spokesman, Yan Qiao, said.
对阿里巴巴来说，“光棍节”的主要收获是宣传作用，阿里巴巴发言人颜乔说。阿里巴巴已在准备上市。
“We are not thinking about how much profit Alibaba could achieve at all,” Mr. Yan said.
“我们根本不考虑阿里巴巴集团可以从双十一的活动中挣到多少钱，”阿里巴巴集团公关总监颜乔对《纽约时报》表示。
“The biggest value it gives us is that the festival always can create the new record of one-day gross merchandise value on Tmall.com,” he said.
他说，“这件事带给我们最大的价值，是每年的双十一，都会给我们创造一个新的单日交易额纪录。而这个纪录，会成为来年阿里巴巴集团、以至于整个中国电子商务发展的重要驱动力。”
So successful has Singles’ Day been that it has already given rise to a sequel. Even as online retailers tally their receipts from 11/11, some of them are preparing for another manufactured e-commerce event: “Double-12,” on Dec. 12, when there will be more promotions.
“光棍节”如此之成功，以至于有人已经要搞一个后续活动。就在网上零售商还在数他们11月11日收据总额的同时，其中一些已在为另一次人为制造的电子商业活动做准备：“双十二”，也就是12月12日，届时将会有更多促销活动。