Che’ Ahmad Azhar sits so quietly in the corner of a room, you might not notice him. But take him to the lively streets of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and he becomes a maestro, conducting a symphony of noise, action, light and shadow in the best tradition of street photography.
谢·艾哈迈德·阿扎尔(Che’ Ahmad Azhar)安静地坐在房间角落里，你可能都注意不到他。但是只要把他带到马来西亚吉隆坡的熙攘街道上，他就变成了一个大师，秉承着优良的街头摄影传统，指挥起一场噪音、动作、光和影所组成的交响乐。
On just three streets, no less.
不多不少，就三条街。
Every Saturday for almost eight years, this former advertising director and landscape photographer prowls Petaling Street in Chinatown, Leboh Ampang in Little India and Pudu, a Chinese enclave. In courting the people who live there, Mr. Azhar, 49, has grown into a seasoned street photographer who can make sense of crazy cityscapes and vivid lives. Faceless street vendors, cooks and barbers, fortunetellers, security guards — all were once strangers, but became a new branch of his family.
在将近八年时间里，这位原广告总监和风景摄影师每个星期六都会流连在唐人街地区的茨厂街，小印度地区的安邦路口和华人聚居地富都。经过和当地居民多年的接触，49岁的阿扎尔已经成为了一个经验丰富的街头摄影师，让疯狂的城市景观和鲜活的生命显得浑然有序。籍籍无名的街头小贩、厨师和理发师、算命先生、保安——他们原本都是陌路人，但却成了他的大家庭中又一道支系。
I met him in June at the Obscura Festival in Georgetown, on Malaysia’s Penang Island. We both had exhibitions at Obscura, a friendly photography festival in its first year, and were teaching master classes. Che’ — also known as Chemad — has been a photography teacher at Multimedia University in Malaysia for 16 years, and his excellence has been recognized with numerous awards.
我和他是6月份在马来西亚槟榔屿乔治市的暗箱摄影艺术节(Obscura Festival)上认识的。那是个气氛友好的摄影节，今年是第一届，我和他都有展览，另外还在开班授课。谢——又叫谢马德(Chemad)——在马来西亚多媒体大学(Multimedia University)已经教了16年摄影，他的卓越才能还得到了许多奖项的肯定。
During the festival, he took his eager students into the bustling streets of Georgetown, stopping along the way to photograph scenes and point out interesting moments to the class.
摄影节期间，他带着兴奋的学生走上乔治市的喧闹街道，时不时停下来拍摄景物，指点学生去观察一些有趣的瞬间。
But his series, which he calls “Walk of Life,” had already moved me with its intimacy and familiarity with the people and the cityscapes. I asked him: Why the same three streets?
然而他那个叫作“三教九流”(Walk of Life)的系列作品早已打动我，这个系列中的人和都市风景充满柔情蜜意。我问他：为什么就这三条街？
“After walking the streets so often, they began to smile at me, invite me for coffee, to eat with them and tell me about their lives, some fortunate, some unfortunate,” he said. “They are genuine, nothing fake about them. When I mingle with them, I feel a sense of belonging.”
“在这些街道上走多了，他们就开始冲我笑，请我喝咖啡，和他们一起吃饭，跟我讲他们的故事，有些是好事，有些是坏事，”他说。“他们是真诚的，没有一点掺假。我融入他们当中，会有一种归属感。”
If anything, the streets remind him of where he was raised, in a small town near Penang. It was the kind of place where no neighbor was a stranger.
也有可能是因为，这些街道让他想起自己成长的环境，那是在槟城附近的一座小镇。在那种地方，邻里之间是不存在陌生人的。
“People like this, middle class and lower, are honest about who they are,” he said. “They are cheerful. Their lives are lived out on the street more than the wealthy.”
“像这种中等偏下的阶层，是能坦然面对自己的身份的，”他说。“他们很欢快。跟富人相比，他们的人生更多是在街道上展开的。”
In fact, he doesn’t photograph the upper middle class or the wealthy.
事实上，他是不会拍摄中等偏上或富人阶层的。
“They are not nearly as interesting,” he said.
“他们远没有这么有趣，”他说。
When he left advertising and graphic design, Mr. Azhar began to paint, using a camera only to record things like landscapes.
离开广告和平面设计行业后，阿扎尔开始画画，相机只用来记录风景之类的东西。
“It was very meditative, but at the mercy of Mother Nature,” he said. “I started to think, ‘What can I do besides this?’ So I went into Kuala Lumpur and started shooting in a very random manner. I saw this was very interesting.”
“那是些沉思性的东西，但是完全受着大自然的支配，”他说。“我开始考虑，‘除了这个我还能做些什么呢？’就这样，我就来到吉隆坡，开始用很随机的方式拍摄。我发现这很有趣。”
He discovered work by Henri Cartier-Bresson, Robert Frank, Garry Winogrand, Diane Arbus and Bill Brandt.
他发现了亨利·卡蒂埃-布列(Henri Cartier-Bresson)、罗伯特·弗兰克(Robert Frank)、盖瑞·温格兰(Garry Winogrand)、迪安·阿勃丝(Diane Arbus)、比尔·布兰特(Bill Brandt)。
“I didn’t even know there was this genre called street photography,” he admitted. “I wanted to know the history of these people and how they worked, and I realized I had to keep going back and back and back and that I would get more.”
“我都不知道还有个门类叫街头摄影，”他坦言。“我想知道这些人的历史，他们是怎么工作的，我意识到我必须不断一次又一次地回到这里来，我需要拍更多的东西。”
He later delved into documentary photography, especially the work of celebrated Farm Security Administration photographers like Dorothea Lange and Walker Evans. More recently, he has pored over the work of Alex Webb, William Albert Allard and David Alan Harvey.
后来他开始探索记录摄影，尤其是农业安全管理局(Farm Security Administration)的那些著名摄影师的作品，比如多萝西娅·兰恩(Dorothea Lange)和沃克·埃文斯(Walker Evans)。近些年，他仔细研究了艾利克斯·韦伯(Alex Webb)、威廉·阿尔伯特·阿拉德(William Albert Allard)和戴维·阿兰·哈维(David Alan Harvey)的作品。
He now says he has been reborn into an entirely new world.
现在，他说自己在一个全新的世界里获得了重生。
“I was overwhelmed, and it gave me a new way of seeing,” he said. “I discovered the geometry in photography, layered, variety of subjects, the idea of moments. David Alan Harvey once said it’s never too late to be the man you could have been. I have done that.”
“我被彻底击倒了，这给了我一种全新的观看方式，”他说。“我在摄影中发现了几何，层叠而多样的题材，瞬间的概念。戴维·阿兰·哈维曾经说过，成为那个你本应成为的人，这事是无所谓早晚的。我已经做到了。”