CAIRO — The lethal conflict between Egypt’s military-backed government and its Islamist opponents escalated on Monday, with an expansion of attacks against government targets, signs that the authorities have failed to secure the streets, and a refusal by either side to back down.
开罗——周一，埃及军方支持的政府与伊斯兰主义反对派之间的流血冲突升级，针对政府目标的袭击进一步扩大。这些迹象意味着，当局已经无法保障街头治安，且双方都拒绝让步。
Three brazen attacks across the country included a drive-by shooting near the Suez Canal that killed six soldiers, a car bomb that killed two police officers and wounded dozens near the Red Sea resort area, and the first rocket-propelled grenade launched in the struggle, exploding near an elite enclave of the capital and damaging a satellite transmitter.
发生于全国范围的三次肆无忌惮的袭击活动包括：苏伊士运河附近的一次飞车枪击事件，导致六名士兵身亡；红海度假区附近的一次汽车炸弹爆炸，导致两名警察身亡、数十人受伤；以及本轮冲突中首次出现的火箭推进榴弹袭击，爆炸地点位于开罗的一个精英社区周围，毁坏了一处卫星发射装置。
The attacks came a day after security forces killed 53 protesters, many shot in the head and chest, in the worst outbreak of street mayhem in Cairo since mid-August.
这些袭击的一天前，埃及的安全部队打死了53名抗议者，其中许多人头部和胸部中弹。这是8月中旬以来开罗爆发的最严重的街头骚乱。
Three months after the military ouster of President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood, the violence was the latest evidence that the new government installed on July 3 by Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi had failed to neutralize the Islamist opposition even after arresting its leadership and demonstrating its willingness to use lethal force. To many in the new government, the protests and attacks only seemed to underscore the need to redouble its fight against Brotherhood, which officials quickly blamed for Monday’s attacks.
三个月前，军方罢免了来自穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)，而上述暴力活动再次证明，虽然逮捕了伊斯兰主义反对派的领导成员，并展示了使用杀伤性武力的意愿，但阿卜杜勒·法塔赫·塞西上将(Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi)7月3日任命的新政府仍未能摧毁反对派。对于新政府中的许多人来说，抗议和攻击似乎仅仅突显出，有必要加大打击穆兄会的力度。官方很快就将相关袭击事件归咎于穆兄会。
To the Islamist opposition, however, a heavy turnout for a day of protests on Sunday despite the deadly reprisals only proved the resilience of their “anti-coup” movement — even with no obvious leadership. Faced with a return to decades of repression, Islamists said, they had no choice but to continue their protests even if they risked death and stood little chance of reversing the takeover.
然而，对伊斯兰主义反对派而言，尽管政府采取了流血报复行动，但周日参与抗议活动的人数之多无疑证明了他们的“反政变”运动的韧性——就算是群龙无首。一些伊斯兰主义者称，由于长达数十年的压迫卷土重来，他们别无选择，只能继续抗议，即便他们要冒死亡的风险，即便几乎没有重夺政府控制权的可能性。
The seemingly random attacks on Monday, many analysts said, indicated that the violent backlash against the new government had taken on a momentum that the leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood could no longer restrain even if they wanted to.
许多分析人士表示，周一看似随意的袭击显示，针对新政府的暴力反击已经呈现出新的势头，就算穆兄会的领导人想要控制，也将无能为力。
While neither side could fully triumph, neither could see room to pull back, setting the stage for further bloodshed, said Emad Shahin, a political scientist at the American University in Cairo who has tried without success to broker steps toward compromise. “We have reached a bloody stalemate,” he said.
开罗美国大学(American University in Cairo)的政治学者伊马德·沙欣(Emad Shahin)称，尽管双方均不可能取得全面的胜利，双方也都看不到让步的余地，但这为进一步的流血冲突创造了条件。沙欣一直尝试促成双方向妥协的方向迈进，但未能成功。他说，“我们陷入了血腥的僵局。”
No one claimed responsibility for the attacks, nor did they need to. The attacks were universally assumed to be the work of Islamists angry at Mr. Morsi’s ouster, and, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized as spokesmen, two senior government officials blamed the Muslim Brotherhood despite its repeated public disavowals of such tactics.
没有人声称为袭击负责，也无需这么做。这些袭击一概被认为是对穆尔西被罢免感到愤怒的伊斯兰主义者所为。两名政府高级官员称，穆兄会应为袭击负责，尽管它多次公开否认采取过此类策略。由于没有发言的授权，二人要求匿名。
“Blackmail by terrorism,” said one of the officials, a senior military officer.
其中一名高级军官称，这是“通过恐怖主义实施的勒索”。
Suggesting the Brotherhood was almost predisposed to violence, he argued that the violence might have been worse if not for the crackdown, in which security forces have killed more than 1,000 protesters and jailed hundreds of Islamist leaders. If the violence was this severe with the leaders behind bars, the officer asked, how much worse might it be if leaders were released?
他表示，穆兄会几近嗜血，若不是采取了镇压行动，暴力可能更为严重。在镇压行动中，安全部队杀死了超过1000名抗议者，逮捕了数百名伊斯兰主义领袖。该官员还称，在领导人被监禁的情况下暴力袭击已是如此恶劣，如果他们被释放，那还了得？
The Muslim Brotherhood’s “anti-coup” alliance, meanwhile, saluted what it called the courage and sacrifice of “unprecedented numbers” who had turned out the day before. In a statement on Monday, the alliance called for student protests at schools and universities on Tuesday “to denounce the continuation of the massacres.”
与此同时，穆斯林兄弟会的“反政变”联盟赞扬了前一天参加抗议的“前所未有的大量人群”的“勇气和牺牲”。在周一发表的声明中，该联盟呼吁学生周二举行抗议，以“谴责持续不断的屠杀行为”。
And it all but dared the government to continue the violence against protesters by calling for new marches on Friday to Tahrir Square, the symbolic center of the 2011 revolt against President Hosni Mubarak and more recently the staging ground for rallies in support of General Sisi. It was the attempt by pro-Morsi marchers to reach Tahrir Square on Sunday, when it was the site of a pro-military celebration, that set in motion the day of deadly violence, and the opposition alliance’s plans to try again this Friday appeared to set the stage for more.
联盟还呼吁，周五在解放广场举行新的游行活动，这几乎是在刺激政府继续对抗议者使用暴力。解放广场是2011年针对总统胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)的反叛活动的标志性中心，也是前不久支持赛西的集会的大本营。正是支持穆尔西的游行者周日试图进入解放广场的行为才引发了当天的流血暴力，当时那里正在举行支持军方的庆祝活动。反对派联盟本周五再次尝试进入的计划似乎将引来更多的镇压。
“Nobody will keep us from the square no matter what the sacrifices,” the alliance said in its statement.
“没有人可以阻挡我们进入广场，无论要为此做出多大的牺牲，”反对派联盟在声明中称。
H.A. Hellyer, a fellow at the Brookings Institution who is based in Egypt, argued that the Brotherhood’s approach was tragically short sighted. Egypt’s security forces were likely to meet almost any mass demonstration with violence and bloodshed, and the Islamists end up taking the blame for the loss of life, the chaos and any subsequent retaliation like the attacks on Monday.
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)驻埃及的研究员H·A·赫利尔(H.A. Hellyer)认为，穆兄会的手段过于短视，相当可悲。埃及的安全部队很可能会用暴力和流血来对待几乎所有的大规模示威活动，而人员的伤亡、混乱局势及任何随后的报复行动，包括周一的几起袭击，最终都会被算到伊斯兰主义者头上。
“Who do you think will be blamed for that RPG attack? “ he said. “More people will die, you will have violence in other parts of the country, and all that will be blamed on the Muslim Brotherhood.”
“你觉得，谁要为那次火箭推进榴弹袭击担责？”他说。“将会有更多人丧生，埃及的其他地区也会滋生暴力，这一切都会归咎于穆斯林兄弟会。”
“It is only a question of whether the Brotherhood are pummeled out of the political arena, or if they withdraw on their own terms,” he added.
“问题无非是，穆兄会究竟是被强力赶下政治舞台，还是自己主动撤退？”他还说。
But Professor Shahin of the American University in Cairo argued that by harassing the government the protests gave the Islamists some leverage, and that the current government was also in a battle it could never fully win. “You can’t just say, ‘I have half the population on my side and with it I can crush the other half,’ and go on like that indefinitely,” he said. “This military-backed government cannot consolidate on the basis of repression and he authoritarian measures of the ‘50s and ‘60s. That is a bygone era.”
开罗美国大学的沙欣教授则认为，通过不断骚扰政府，抗议活动让伊斯兰主义反对派取得了一些影响，现任政府也面临着一场永远无法完全取胜的斗争。“你不能干脆说，‘有一半的民众站在我这边，凭借这一点，我就能镇压剩下的一半’，然后没完没了地继续下去，”他说。“军方支持的政府不能依靠压迫和五六十年代的威权手段巩固地位。那个时代已经过去了。”