It’s been an arduous journey for the fashion designer Christian Siriano: winning Season 4 of the reality show “Project Runway,” a triumph that his publicist asked not be mentioned here (sorry); collecting a group of celebrity clients (Taylor Swift, Christina Hendricks, Sarah Jessica Parker and Victoria Beckham among them); and finally establishing himself as a credible — and fierce — brand.
时装设计师克里斯蒂安·西里亚诺(Christian Siriano)的职业历程，可以用天道酬勤来形容：他先是因在真人秀《天桥骄子》(Project Runway)第四季中获胜而崭露头角，关于这段辉煌事迹，他的公关本来不让我提（抱歉，我还是提了）；此后，他赢得了一系列女星客户——包括泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)、克里斯蒂娜·亨德里克斯(Christina Hendricks)、莎拉·杰西卡·帕克(Sarah Jessica Parker)、维多利亚·贝克汉姆(Victoria Beckham)等等；最后，他将自己的作品打造成了一个品质可靠又极具风格的品牌。
Then there’s that other journey — five flights — to the expansive 2,400-square-foot rental in Chelsea that Mr. Siriano, 27, shares with his partner, Brad Walsh, a composer-musician, and their dogs, Topper and Bear.
除此之外，西里亚诺还有另一段路要走——他每天得爬五段楼梯，才能到达切尔西的家。他和男友布拉德·沃尔什(Brad Walsh)租了一套2400平方英尺（约合223平方米）的大房子，他们养了两条狗，分别叫做“短大衣”(Topper)和“熊”(Bear)。
“For some reason the stairs don’t bother us,” Mr. Siriano said. “It was a bit of an issue, but once you get up here, for the rent we’re paying, I was like, ‘We are sucking it up.’ ”
“出于某些原因，我们并不介意爬楼梯，”西里亚诺表示，“虽然有点不方便，但是既然已经住下来，房租也都付了，我觉得，那就好歹将就一下吧。”
The payoff at the end of the climb is an anything-but-modern, anything-but-minimalist eyeful. Here, treasures from flea markets and yard sales, like a barn-door sign advertising fresh tomatoes, a gift from their client and close friend Kristen Johnston. There, French antique chairs “that are just for pretty,” said Mr. Siriano who, when it comes to syntax, has his own particular style. Everywhere, fabric squares, some draped over the dining table and a nearby chaise longue, many wrapped around the 50 or so pillows. They’re for pretty, sure, but also for comfort and a homey feel.
楼梯爬到头，回报就是眼前出现的这套美轮美奂的公寓了。其装潢风格和“现代”与“极简主义”这些词都无缘：这里摆着几件从跳蚤市场和人家庭院里的二手摊上淘来的宝贝，比如一张兜售新鲜土豆的谷仓门板广告牌，那是西里亚诺的客户兼密友克里斯汀·约翰斯顿(Kristen Johnston)送他的礼物。那里还摆着几张法国古董椅——用西里亚诺的话说，这几张椅子的用途“只是为了好看”。西里亚诺说话时，有自己特定的句法风格（他的原话在英文中不符合语法——译注）。屋子里到处都是方形织物，有的铺在餐桌和附近的躺椅上，还有许多做成了靠垫套，用在了大约50只靠垫上。它们确实是为了好看，但也是为了舒适和营造家庭氛围。
“I’m a huge fan of textiles and I’m a fashion designer who loves interior design,” said Mr. Siriano, who’s as skinny as a wand and who, thanks to that signature asymmetrical hillock of hair, seems taller than he is. “If you’re making clothes and you’re referencing a particular time period, you always want to think about the mood of that period. So I’ll often look at old furniture because it can inspire a show. The shape of a sofa leg can inspire the shape of a heel. They all work together.”
“我对纺织物超级着迷，我是个喜欢室内设计的时装设计师，”西里亚诺说。西里亚诺瘦得像竹竿一样，蓬松的刘海是他的标志性造型，这使他看起来比实际身高更高。“当你在设计服装时需要参考某个特定时期的风格，这时候，你一定需要找到那个时期的感觉。所以我经常看看旧家具，这能激发我办时装秀的灵感。沙发腿的形状能激发我设计鞋跟的灵感。它们都是相通的。”
He previewed his resort preview in the apartment this past season. “I thought it would be nice for the fashion editors and buyers to come to my home and see how the clothes work with my world.”
上一季度，他在自家公寓里观看了resort时装秀的预告片。“我觉得，可以邀请时装编辑和买家来我家里坐坐，看看时装对我的世界产生了怎样的影响。”
And while he loves shopping for clothes, he said, “honestly, I get more of a thrill spending my money on furniture and pillows and accessories.”
他说，虽然他喜欢买衣服，但是“老实说，我觉得花钱买家具、枕头和首饰比买衣服更刺激。”
Clearly, the thrills have been many since the couple moved in four years ago. Atop chests, credenzas and a painter’s scaffold that has been cleverly repurposed as a back-of-sofa console table are framed photos, candelabra, books, busts, decanters — and bird cages. “I definitely have a thing for them,” Mr. Siriano said. “I think they’re sculptural but not overpowering.”
显然，自从四年前搬进新居后，他经常体验这种刺激的感觉。他有好几个衣柜、橱柜，还有一张由画家用的支架巧妙改装而来的、置于沙发后方的玄关桌。在这些家具上，还陈列着带框相片、枝形大烛台、书籍、胸像、醒酒器——还有鸟笼。“我确实很喜欢这些东西，”西里亚诺说，“我觉得它们像雕像一样美，而又不会给人压迫感。”
The backdrop for the bird cages and everything else is a multilevel former ballet studio with two huge skylights and generous windows that make the space seem bright even on gray days. The apartment’s history greatly pleases the current lessee.
鸟笼等所有摆件所在的这处背景空间，曾是一个多楼层的芭蕾教室，有两扇巨大的天窗和多扇敞亮的大窗。即使在阴天，室内也很明亮。这套公寓的历史让其当前的租住者非常满意。
“I was a dancer as a kid,” said Mr. Siriano, who grew up in Annapolis, Md. “I loved being backstage and seeing the costumes and watching my mother and the other mothers sewing tulle, so it’s very cool to live here.” He went to design school in London, where he interned for Alexander McQueen and Vivienne Westwood.
“我小时候学过跳舞，”在马里兰州安纳波利斯长大的西里亚诺说，“我喜欢在后台看演出服装，喜欢看着妈妈和阿姨们缝制薄纱。所以，住在这里感觉酷毙了。”西里亚诺曾在伦敦的设计学校就读，求学期间曾在亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)和薇薇恩·韦斯特伍德(Vivienne Westwood)的公司实习。
Half a dozen years ago, when his fortunes had improved sufficiently for him to move out of a tiny Lower East Side apartment, Mr. Siriano decided to make his next perch a loft in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. “I wanted as big a place as possible,” he said. “I got something very industrial with polished concrete floors, clean and open and huge.”
三年前，他积累了一大笔财富，足以让他搬出下东城的那套小公寓。当时，他决定在布鲁克林的威廉斯堡找一套顶跃层公寓。“我希望自己住的地方越大越好，”他说，“当时找到的房子很有工业风格，有抛光的混凝土地板，室内空间干净、开阔、面积超大。”
Two years later, he had had quite enough of the long commute to his showroom in the garment district, quite enough of expensive cab rides and more than enough of the one-big-open-space concept and the aesthetics of clean and uncluttered. “I still wanted size,” he said. “But I wanted a real bedroom that was closed off from everything. I wanted a real separate kitchen.”
两年后，他住不下去了：每天从家里出发，得花很长的时间才能到达他在时装区(garment district)的展示厅，他不想再花费昂贵的打车费。而且，他也受够了开放式大单间的建筑概念，和干净整洁的美学理念。“我还是想要大房子，”他说，“但是我想要一间真正的独立卧室，还有真正独立的厨房。”
And here is what he didn’t want: a new high-rise, tiny rooms, parquet floors and a lack of luxe and glamour.
他不喜欢的建筑元素包括：新落成的高层建筑、狭小的房间、拼花地板，以及不够华美、缺乏吸引力的设计。
“At first I wasn’t sure about this,” he confessed, looking around the apartment, which has been fashioned into three areas — vignettes, in Siriano parlance — bedroom, kitchen/living room and main living room/grand salon. “It’s huge, and I guess I was nervous about how we were going to be comfortable in it. We almost moved into a different space not too far away that was Cynthia Rowley’s old apartment,” Mr. Siriano continued. “A funny thing to think about, but her place had low ceilings.”
“一开始，我不确定自己喜不喜欢这里，”他坦言道。说着，他环视了一下自己的公寓，这套房子分为三个区域——或者用西里亚诺的话说，是三部“小品文” ，分别是卧室、厨房/客厅、主客厅/大沙龙间。“房子超大，我猜自己当时比较担心，住进来后会不会不习惯。我们差点就要搬到附近的另一套房子去，那是辛西娅·罗利(Cynthia Rowley)的旧公寓。”西里亚诺接着说，“现在想想还挺有意思的，不过她的房子天花板比较矮。”
In this apartment the skylights, which he happily described as “so weird and special,” helped them make the final decision. “And I loved the exposed brick, which was what I wanted when I moved to New York. It’s such a clichéd thing to think about, but I love it and I think it adds a lot of character.”
提到公寓的天窗，他高兴地表示，天窗“太古怪，太特别了”。也正因为如此，他们最终买下了这套公寓。“而且我喜欢砖块暴露在外，这是我一开始搬到纽约时就想要的效果。这种想法非常迂腐，但我就是喜欢这种设计，我认为这给房子增色不少。”
Of course, the real character here is Mr. Siriano himself. In his hands, the story of painting the apartment becomes a comedy routine. “The walls were lime green when we moved in. Neon. Very scary. The ceilings in the entryway are 12 feet, in the living room, they’re 20 feet. Trust me, painting was not fun and I did it all myself, but do you know what it costs to hire someone?”
当然，真正给房子增色的，是西里亚诺本人。他用自己的巧手，将给公寓刷漆的环节变成了一出喜剧桥段。“我们刚搬进来的时候，墙壁的颜色是柠檬绿的，就像霓虹灯，看着非常吓人。玄关门廊处的天花板有12英尺（约合3.7米）高，而客厅的天花板有20英尺（约合6米）。相信我，刷漆一点也不好玩，而我全都是自己做的，可是你知道雇人刷漆要花多少钱吗？”
It’s a petty annoyance easily overshadowed by Mr. Siriano’s delight with the results of his labor. But really,  his enthusiasm is a far-reaching thing, evenly dispersed over objects great and small, frivolous and practical.  Consider his pleasure at a pair of elegant round-back chairs: “They were my first real antique purchases,” he said. “I had no money but I really wanted them.” 
相比大功告成时的喜悦，这点辛苦不算什么。不过，他对家居装潢的热情造成了深远的影响，家中大大小小的物品都烙下了他的个人印记，无论这些物品是纯粹的摆设，还是实用家具。他会因为入手了一对古朴的圆背椅而欢欣雀跃：“这是我第一次购买真正的古董，”他说，“我当时没有钱，但我真的很想把它们买下来。”
He sounded no less giddy about the vintage popcorn machine that he and Mr. Walsh recently bought online. It will be the centerpiece of their annual holiday crafting party.  “Oh, my God, we tried it out! The popcorn is  great! Let me show you the video.”
在谈到家里那台老式爆米花机时，他的语气同样非常兴奋。那台机器是他和沃尔什最近在网上买的。它将作为两人举办年度假日手工派对时的王牌武器，闪亮登场。“噢，天哪，我们已经试用过了！打出来的爆米花真好吃！我来给你看一下当时的视频。”