MIYAKOJI, Japan — Ever since they were forced to evacuate during the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant three years ago, Kim Eunja and her husband have refused to return to their hilltop home amid the majestic mountains of this rural village for fear of radiation.
日本都路——三年前，金恩紫（Kim Eunja，音译）和丈夫在福岛第一核电站(Fukushima Daiichi)发生事故后被迫疏散，自那之后，他们就因为害怕辐射而一直拒绝搬回家，她的家就在这巍峨群山中的一座山顶村庄里。
But now they say they may have no choice. After a nearly $250 million radiation cleanup here, the central government this month declared Miyakoji the first community within a 12-mile evacuation zone around the plant to be reopened to residents. The decision will bring an end to the monthly stipends from the plant’s operator that have allowed Ms. Kim to relocate to an apartment in a city an hour away.
然而现在，他们说自己可能别无选择了。在花了近2.5亿美元（约合15.5亿元人民币）清理此地后，中央政府于本月宣布，都路成了核电站方圆12英里（约19公里）的疏散区内，首片向居民重新开放的社区。这个决定将导致核电站运营商停止给金恩紫发放每月补助，而正是这笔钱让她搬到了距离此地一小时之外的某市的公寓里。
“The government and the media say the radiation has been cleaned up, but it’s all lies,” said Ms. Kim, 55, who is from South Korea, and who with her Japanese husband runs a small Korean restaurant outside Miyakoji. “I want to run away, but I cannot. We have no more money.”
“政府和媒体说，辐射已经被清除干净，但这全是谎话，”55岁的金恩紫说，她来自韩国，和他的日本丈夫在都路村外经营着一家小型韩国餐馆。“我想离开，可是我不能。我们没有更多的钱了。”
She is not the only one. While the central government and national news media have trumpeted the reopening of Miyakoji as a happy milestone in Japan’s recovery from the devastating March 2011 accident, many residents tell a darker story. They insist their homes remain too dangerous or too damaged to inhabit and that they have not received enough financial compensation to allow them to start anew somewhere else.
她不是唯一一个想这么做的居民。尽管中央政府和国家新闻媒体都把都路的重新开放大肆渲染为令人欣喜的里程碑，说它标志着日本已从2011年3月的灾难性事故中复苏，然而许多居民却描述了更阴暗的一面。他们坚称，他们的家太危险，或者受损太严重，没法居住，他们也没有获得足以让他们在别处开始新生活的经济补偿。
They criticize the plant’s operator, Tokyo Electric Power Co., or Tepco, for failing to reimburse them for the value of their homes, usually their family’s largest financial asset. Depending on where they lived, they say they have received amounts from half the preaccident value to just $3,000, a tiny fraction of the original value of their homes.
他们指责核电站运营商东京电力公司（Tokyo Electric Power Co., 简称东电）没有按房价补偿他们的损失，通常房子是他们家中最大的一笔财产。他们说，根据他们的住所所在地的不同，他们收到的补偿从事故前房价的一半，到仅有3000美元不等，后者只是他们房屋原价的零头。
Many villagers complain that these amounts are not enough to move farther away from the plant, which is still leaking radiation, or to repair their traditional wooden farmhouses, which have started to rot and collapse since they were damaged by the earthquake and then abandoned.
许多村民抱怨说，这笔钱既不足以让他们搬到离仍在泄露辐射的核电站更远的地方，也不足以修复他们传统的木质农屋——自屋子被地震毁坏并废弃后，它们就已开始腐烂和坍塌。
As a result, many evacuees have been forced to live in a state of limbo since the accident, unable to leave barracks-like temporary housing, or end their dependency on Tepco for monthly stipends to live in apartments outside the village. Tepco pays the stipends under orders from the government.
结果，事故发生后，许多被疏散者都过着没着没落的生活。他们既无法离开营房似的临时住所，也没法停止他们对东电发放的每月补助的依赖，他们靠这笔钱住在村外的公寓里。东电在按政府的命令支付这笔补助。
Now they feel growing pressure to return whether they want to or not. The government has declared that the stipends, which range from a few hundred dollars to more than $1,000, will end next March, when temporary housing will also begin to be closed. Villagers who move back before then will receive a $9,000 bonus from Tepco, adding to the pressure to return.
现在，不管想还是不想，他们都感觉到回家的压力在日渐加大。政府已经宣布，金额从几百美元到1000多美元不等的补助将在明年3月停止，临时住所将开始关闭。在此之前搬回原住地的村民将得到东电给予的9000美元奖金，这进一步加大了他们回家的压力。
“Tepco is being so stupidly unfair with the compensation,” said Yukei Tomitsuka, the mayor of Tamura, the city that administers Miyakoji. “We are the victims. Should we have to go hat in hand to Tepco to ask for more money?”
“东电的补偿之不公到了愚不可及的地步，”下辖都路的田村市市长富冢宥(Yukei Tomitsuka)说。“我们是受害者。是不是必须要我们腆着脸去求东电，它才能多给一点钱？”
Experts call Miyakoji a forerunner of the problems that will be faced by the 150,000 people displaced by the accident over all, as additional communities are reopened as a result of a $36 billion government-financed cleanup. They say the evacuees will feel increasing pressure to go back from a government that wants to restore the preaccident status quo as much as possible to limit criticism of the powerful nuclear industry.
专家表示，都路是第一个遇到这个问题的村子，随着政府斥资36亿美元的清理行动完结，其他社区会陆续重开，因这场事故而无家可归的15万人都将面同样的问题。他们说，被疏散者将感到政府方面施加的越来越强大的回家压力，后者希望尽可能地恢复事故前的原状，以限制对强大的核工业的批判之声。
Tepco refused to comment, beyond saying that it had so far paid out $36 billion for all types of compensation. “Our company is sincerely listening to the details of each claim,” said Tatsuhiro Yamagishi, a Tepco spokesman. A spokesman for the Education Ministry, which is setting compensation standards, said that the ministry was trying to respond to evacuees’ needs, but that it was hard to meet all the requests. A government committee set up to resolve compensation-related disputes says it has received more than 10,000 requests from disgruntled evacuees.
东电拒绝置评，只说迄今为止，他们已为各种形式的补偿金支付了360亿美元。该公司的发言人山岸立裕(Tatsuhiro Yamagishi)说，“我们公司在诚挚地倾听每起索赔要求的细节。”设定赔偿标准的文部省发言人表示，文部省在设法回应被疏散者的要求，不过，要满足所有要求颇具难度。为解决相关赔偿纠纷而设立的某政府委员会表示，该委员会已从不满的被疏散者那里收到了1万多项索赔请求。
When Prime Minister Shinzo Abe visited Tamura last month, Mayor Tomitsuka handed him a letter asking that residents be given more compensation for their homes. The prime minister has yet to reply.
上个月，日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)造访田村时，富冢宥市长向他递交了一封信，请求政府为居民的住宅提供更多补偿。首相还没有作出答复。
Almost 500 residents of Miyakoji have recently joined one of two separate group lawsuits demanding that Tepco pay more compensation, a rare show of rising frustrations in a close-knit Japanese rural community, which usually abhors conflict-causing litigation.
最近，都路有近500名居民加入了两起分别进行的集体诉讼中的一起，要求东电支付更多赔偿。在关系密切的日本乡村社区，这种颇为罕见的举动显示居民们的失望情绪在日渐加剧，日本乡村社区通常会避免提出导致矛盾的诉讼。
Authorities had hoped that Miyakoji could serve as a model for repopulating the evacuated communities. So far, only about a third of residents have returned, and most of them are older villagers who feel they have less to worry about from the long-term cancer risks of radiation.
当局曾希望都路能成为被疏散社区重聚人气的一个典范。迄今为止，只有约三分之一的居民回到了社区，当中大部分人都是更年长的村民，他们觉得，自己对辐射致癌的长期风险不那么担心。
All of the village’s 3,000 residents were evacuated the day after the March 11, 2011, earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems at the plant. The majority of villagers, who lived farther than 12 miles from the plant, were paid $3,000 to cover damage to their homes and were allowed to return six months later. Most have yet to move back even now, mainly for fear of radiation, though some complain that stores and other services have not reopened.
2011年3月11日，地震和海啸摧毁了核电站的冷却系统，一天之后，都路村的3000名居民就被疏散一空。大部分村民都居住在离核电站12英里以外的区域，他们获得了3000美元，用于赔偿他们的住宅损失，并获准在六个月后返乡。大多数人到现在都没有回迁，他们主要是害怕辐射，不过有部分人抱怨说，商店和其他设施还未重开。
The 357 villagers with homes inside the 12-mile zone were not allowed to return until April 1, more than three years after the accident. They received the highest compensation, about half the preaccident value of their homes.
357户居住在12英里隔离区内的人家直到今年4月1日才获准返回家中，此时距那场事故已经过去了三年多时间。他们接到的最高补偿金额大约是事故前家里房价的一半。