Calcium is an important nutrient for bone health, but new research suggests that older women who take large amounts may be at increased risk of heart disease and death.
钙是一种对于骨骼健康非常重要的营养成分，但新的研究表明，年长女性如果服用大剂量的钙剂，她们罹患心脏病和死亡的危险可能会增加。
Swedish researchers followed 61,433 women born between 1914 and 1948 for an average of 19 years, confirming causes of death with a Swedish government registry. The investigators also used questionnaires to record the women's food and calcium supplement intake.
瑞典研究者追踪了61433名生于1914年至1948年的女性，追踪时长平均达19年，并向瑞典政府的人口登记部门核实受访女性死因。调查者同时请受访者填写问卷，记录饮食和钙剂摄入量。
After controlling for physical activity, education, smoking, alcohol and other dietary factors, they found that women who consumed 1,400 milligrams or more of calcium a day had more than double the risk of death from heart disease, compared with those with intakes between 600 and 1,000 milligrams. These women also had a 49 percent higher rate of death from cardiovascular disease, and a 40 percent higher risk of death from any cause.
在控制了体力活动、教育、吸烟、喝酒和其他饮食因素后，研究者发现，相比每天服用600到1000毫克钙剂的女性，每天服用达到或超过1400毫克钙剂的女性因心脏病而死亡的风险翻了一倍多。而服用高剂量钙的女性，死于心血管病的危险高了49%，因其他各种原因病死的风险高了40%。
The study, published last week online in BMJ, found the increased risk only in women who consumed the most calcium - there was no gradually increased risk with gradually increased calcium intake.
这个研究在上周发表于《英国医学杂志》(BMJ)网络版，研究发表只有服用了最高量钙剂的女性患病风险才会增加——如果是循序渐进地增加钙摄入量，则患病风险不会相应提升。
The authors noted that calcium can increase blood levels of a protein associated with higher risk for cardiovascular disease.
本文的研究者表示，钙可提高血液蛋白浓度，而该指标上升，与患心血管疾病风险增加有联系。
"If you have a normal diet, you don't need to take calcium supplements," said the lead author, Dr. Karl Michaëlsson, a professor and orthopedic surgeon at Uppsala University in Sweden. "Calcium supplements are useful if you have a very low intake of calcium, but few women have such a low intake."
本文的第一作者、瑞典乌普萨拉大学(Uppsala University)教授、整形外科医生卡尔·迈克尔松(Karl Michaëlsson)说：“如果你正常饮食，就没必要额外补钙。补钙对于那些摄入钙量极低的人是有用的，但甚少有女性摄入那么少量的钙。”