Americans seem to think that every health problem can be solved with a pill. And certainly many are, especially infectious diseases that succumb to antibiotics, antifungals and, increasingly, antivirals.
美国人似乎觉得，什么健康问题都能用药片搞定。当然，很多疾病确实如此，特别是感染类疾病，它已经臣服于抗生素、抗真菌药和越来越多的抗病毒药的威力之下。
But that leaves a medical dictionary full of ailments that continue to plague people despite the best efforts of Big Pharma. Most are chronic health problems related to how Americans live, especially what we eat and drink, and don’t eat and drink, and how we move or don’t move. In our aging society, these ailments have pushed the annual cost of medical care into the trillions of dollars and threaten to break Medicare.
然而，尽管制药巨头已尽其所能，仍然有本医学辞典满满记载着持续折磨人的小病小患。它们大多是与美国人生活方式有关的长期健康问题，尤其与我们吃什么喝什么、不吃什么不喝什么、运动或不运动有关。在当今老龄化社会里，这些小毛病让医疗保健的年开销达到几万亿美元，几乎让联邦医疗保险(Medicare)破产。
Osteoporosis is one of these increasingly prevalent and costly conditions. Although there are drugs to stanch the loss of bone and the debilitating fractures that often result, the remedies are costly, difficult to administer and sometimes have side effects that can be worse than the disease they are meant to counter.
骨质疏松就是这类日渐普遍、花费高昂的病痛之一。虽然有药物能制止骨质流失和随之而来让人虚弱不堪的骨折，但治疗手段价格不菲、难于操作、有时还伴有比疾病本身更糟糕的副作用。
This makes prevention the preferred and more cost-effective option. But efforts to prevent bone disease have focused on a pill, namely supplements of calcium, the mineral responsible for creating bone in youth that must be maintained throughout adult life, which now routinely extends to the 80s and 90s.
这就让预防骨质疏松成为了物美价廉的上策。可是人们把发展骨关节病预防措施的焦点放在了药片上，也就是所谓的补钙剂。钙是一种矿物质，人年幼时它负责创造骨质，成年后需持续补充——这种需要已基本延伸至80后和90后了。
But as with many other pills once regarded as innocuous, the safety and efficacy of calcium supplements in preventing bone loss is being called into question.
就像其他曾被认为“无害”的药物一样，补钙剂的安全性和预防骨流失的有效性受到了质疑。
In February, the United States Preventive Services Task Force recommended that postmenopausal women refrain from taking supplemental calcium and vitamin D. After reviewing more than 135 studies, the task force said there was little evidence that these supplements prevent fractures in healthy women.
今年2月，美国预防医学工作组(the United States Preventive Services Task Force)建议，绝经女性不要服用补钙剂和维生素D。在回顾了135项研究后，工作组称：几乎没有证据证明这类补充剂能预防健康女性发生骨折。
Moreover, several studies have linked calcium supplements to an increased risk of heart attacks and death from cardiovascular disease. Others have found no effect, depending on the population studied and when calcium supplementation was begun.
此外，有些研究还把补钙剂与心脏病风险增加和心血管疾病死亡率增加联系在了一起。由于研究对象的不同和开始服用补钙剂时间的不同，另一些研究没有发现此联系。
The resulting controversy has left countless people, especially postmenopausal women, wondering whether they should be taking calcium. Given the conditional evidence currently available, the answer is not likely to be greeted enthusiastically by anyone other than dairy farmers, who supply the foods and drinks that are the country’s richest dietary sources of calcium.
由此引发的争论让无数人，特别是绝经女性，搞不清楚到底该不该使用补钙剂。鉴于目前可得的有条件限制的证据，大概再不会有谁能比奶农更喜爱得出的结论了——他们提供的食品和饮品是美国最丰富的钙的膳食来源。
The one indisputable fact is that the safest and probably the most effective source of calcium for strong bones and overall health is diet, not supplements. But few American adults, and a decreasing proportion of children and teenagers, consume enough dairy foods to get the recommended intakes of this essential mineral.
一个毋庸置疑的事实就是：强健骨骼、促进全身健康最安全、也许也是最有效的钙来源是饮食，不是补充剂。可是，很少有美国成年人，且越来越少有少年儿童进食足够的乳制品以摄入这种必须矿物质的推荐剂量了。
Milk consumption has taken a steady nose-dive in the last four decades, largely supplanted by sugared soft drinks that are now under fire as major contributors to obesity and Type 2 diabetes. Beyond age 20, when bone loss can begin to overtake bone formation, the typical man and woman in this country consumes less than one cup of milk a day. Likewise for teenage girls, who should be striving to maximize bone formation so that there is more in reserve when bone loss begins.
在过去的40年里，牛奶的消耗量急剧下降，它们大量地被含糖软饮料替代。而现在，软饮料正因作为肥胖症和II型糖尿病的主要诱因而大受抨击。从20岁起，人的骨质流失速度开始高于骨生成速度，美国20岁以上的成年男女通常每天才喝不到一杯牛奶。十几岁的女孩子也一样。而她们可正值应当努力促进骨生成、以便日后骨质流失开始时有更多储备的时期。
Yogurt, which ounce for ounce is an even better source of calcium than fluid milk, has achieved unprecedented popularity in recent years, but few consume it more than once a day, which doesn’t come close to meeting dietary needs. Frozen yogurt, which threatens to supplant ice cream as the nation’s most popular frozen dessert, has about half the amount of calcium as regular yogurt and only slightly more than ice cream. Both are far more caloric than nonfat milk.
酸奶——同体积下比液态奶含更高的钙——近年来受到了前所未有的欢迎。可惜，很少有人每天会喝不止一份酸奶，这远不够膳食所需。冻酸奶——威胁要把冰激凌取而代之的、美国最热卖的冷饮——含钙量只有普通酸奶的一半，比冰激凌就高一点点。两种冷饮的热量都比脱脂牛奶高多了。
The only other notable calcium-rich foods are tofu (when prepared with calcium); calcium-fortified orange juice, soy milk and rice milk; canned salmon and sardines (but only if you eat the bones); almonds; kale; and broccoli. But few people consume enough of these foods to obtain the calcium they need.
其他备受瞩目的高钙食品是豆腐（用钙制备时）、加钙的橙汁、豆奶和米浆、三文鱼和沙丁鱼罐头（只有在把骨头也吃了的情况下）、杏仁、羽衣甘蓝和西兰花。不过还是很少有人吃够上述食品，获得他们所需要的钙。
Calcium was long thought to protect the cardiovascular system. It helps to lower blood pressure and the risk of hypertension, a major contributor to heart disease. The Iowa Women’s Health Study linked higher calcium intakes in postmenopausal women to a reduced risk of heart disease deaths, though other long-term studies did not find such an association.
长期以来，人们都相信钙能够保护心血管系统。它帮助降低血压、减少患高血压的风险，而高血压是心脏病的主要诱因。艾奥瓦妇女健康研究(Iowa Women’s Health Study)认为绝经期妇女摄入大量的钙与心脏病死亡率降低相关。但其他长期研究并没有显示二者有关系。
Controversy over calcium supplements arose when a combined analysis of 15 studies by Dr. Mark J. Bolland of the University of Auckland found that when calcium was taken without vitamin D (which enhances calcium absorption), the supplements increased the risk of heart attack by about 30 percent.
钙制剂的争论是由一个综合了过去15项研究的分析引发的。奥克兰大学(University of Auckland)的研究者马克·J·博兰(Mark J. Bolland)博士发现：如果补钙剂不与维生素D（促进钙吸收）共同服用，补钙剂会把心脏病风险提高30%。
Dr. Bolland then reanalyzed data from the Women’s Health Initiative and found a 24 percent increased risk of heart attack among women who took calcium with or without vitamin D. In this case, the increased risk occurred only among those women assigned to take supplemental calcium who had not already been taking it when the study began.
博兰博士又重新分析了妇女健康促进计划(Women’s Health Initiative)的数据，结论是：无论是否与维生素D同服，服补钙剂的女性患心脏病的风险都提高24%。此调查中，风险增长的现象只出现在调查前未曾服用、自调查起才被指定服用补钙剂的女性。
Yet last December, in a report published online in Osteoporosis International, a team at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle reported that among 36,282 postmenopausal women participating in the Women’s Health Initiative, those taking 1,000 milligram supplements of calcium and 400 international units of vitamin D experienced a 35 percent reduced risk of hip fracture, and no increase in heart attacks during a seven-year follow-up.
不过，去年12月由弗雷德·哈钦森癌症研究中心(Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center)的一个研究小组发表在《国际骨质疏松杂志》(Osteoporosis International)上的报道称：参加妇女健康促进计划的36282名绝经妇女中，那些每日服用1000毫克钙补充剂和400国际单位维生素D的妇女，髋骨骨折概率降低了35%；同时，7年的随访调查也没有显示心脏病风险有所提高。
In February yet another study, published online in JAMA Internal Medicine, found that among 388,229 men and women initially aged 50 to 71 and followed for an average of 12 years, supplemental calcium raised the risk of cardiovascular death by 20 percent among men — but not women. The increased risk was observed only among smokers.
然而，今年2月另一项发表于《美国医学会杂志——内科学》(JAMA Internal Medicine)在线版的研究发现：在388229名男性和女性调查对象中，男性服用补钙剂会导致心脏病死亡率提高20%，不过仅见于吸烟的男性。女性则没有出现增长。（这些研究对象起始年龄为50岁至71岁，平均随访时间达12年。）
Adding to these confusing results is the fact that none of the studies was specifically designed to assess the effects of calcium supplements on the chances of suffering a heart attack or stroke. This can cause unexpected aberrations in research findings.
更让结果混乱的是，上述研究无一是经专门设计要去评估补钙剂是否提升心脏病和中风几率的。这一点会让研究发现出现难以预料的偏差。
One possible explanation for a link, the JAMA researchers said, is that a bolus of calcium that enters the blood stream through a supplement, but not gradually through dietary sources, can result in calcium deposits in arteries. Indeed, this is a known complication among patients with advanced kidney disease who take calcium supplements.
美国医学会研究者说，补钙剂与心脏病间的关系有个可能的解释：补钙剂把一大块钙送到血液里，而不是像饮食那样逐渐地送入，这可能导致钙沉积在动脉中。确实，这是严重肾病患者服用补钙剂的一个并发症，人们早已熟知。
All the researchers agree that, given the widespread use of supplemental calcium, better studies are needed to clarify possible risks and benefits, and to whom they may apply.
所有研究者的共识是：由于现在补钙剂广泛应用，我们需要更好的研究来澄清其可能的威胁和益处，以及应用对象。
Until such information is available, consumers seeking to preserve their bones would be wise to rely primarily on dietary sources of the mineral and to pursue regular weight-bearing or strength-building exercises, or both. Walking, running, weight lifting and working out on resistance machines is unquestionably effective and safe for most adults, if done properly.
在我们获得类似信息之前，想要保存骨质的消费者最好还是主要依赖含钙饮食，进行常规负重训练或力量训练，或二者兼顾。步行、跑步、举重和在阻力训练器上锻炼——如果动作正确——都毫无疑问地对大多数成年人有效且安全。
Furthermore, the National Osteoporosis Foundation maintains that the findings of current studies and advice about supplements should “not apply to women with osteoporosis or broken bones after age 50 or those with significant risk factors for fracture.” For them, the benefits of calcium supplements are likely to far outweigh any risks. 
另外，美国国家骨质疏松基金会(National Osteoporosis Foundation)表示，当前对补钙剂的研究结果和建议“不可应用于50岁以上已患骨质疏松或曾骨折过的女性、和发生骨折风险很高的人”。于她们而言，补钙剂的益处貌似远远超过任何危险。