Resplendent in his gleaming white uniform and peaked cap, jacket buttons tugging his plump girth, the stationmaster stood at the platform, waiting for a train that would never come. “Cutbacks,” Nisar Ahmed Abro said with a resigned shrug.
站在站台上的这个站长穿着洁白的制服，头戴大盖帽，肥胖的腰部被纽扣箍住。可他等着迎接的列车一直没有露面。“削减了，”尼萨尔·艾哈迈德·阿卜鲁(Nisar Ahmed Abro)一边说，一边无可奈何地耸了耸肩。
Ruk Station, in the center of Pakistan, is a dollhouse-pretty building, ringed by palm trees and rice paddies. Once, it stood at the junction of two great Pakistani rail lines: the Kandahar State Railway, which raced north through the desert to the Afghan border; and another that swept east to west, chaining cities from the Hindu Kush mountains to the Arabian Sea.
位于巴基斯坦中部的鲁克(Ruk)站是一栋玩偶屋般的漂亮建筑，四周被棕榈树和稻田环绕着。它一度是巴基斯坦两大铁路干线的交汇处：一条是向北穿过沙漠抵达阿富汗边境的坎大哈国家铁路(Kandahar State Railway)，另一条横跨东西，从兴都库什山脉至阿拉伯海，将沿线的城市连接起来。
Now it was a ghost station. No train had stopped at Ruk in six months, because of cost cutting at the state-owned rail service, Pakistan Railways, and the elegant station stood lonely and deserted. Idle railway men smoked in the shadows. A water buffalo sauntered past.
如今，它却成了一座空站。六个月来没有一趟火车在鲁克站停靠，原因是国有的巴基斯坦铁路公司(Pakistan Railways)在削减成本。这座典雅的火车站孤零零地立在这里。无所事事的铁路工人在阴凉处吸烟。一头水牛悠闲地走过。
Mr. Abro led the way into his office, a high-ceilinged room with a silent grandfather clock. Pouring tea, he mopped sweat from his brow. The afternoon heat was rising, and the power had been down for 16 hours — nothing unusual in Pakistan these days.
阿卜鲁带着记者来到他的办公室，屋里的天花板很高，还有一座静默无声的落地大座钟。倒茶时，他抹了一把额头上的汗。午后的炎热正在加剧，而断电已经持续16个小时了，在如今的巴基斯坦，这很正常。
Opposite him, Faisal Imran, a visiting railway engineer, listened sympathetically to the mournful stationmaster. This was about more than just trains — more than the decrepit condition of the once-mighty state railway service, Mr. Imran said. It was about Pakistan itself.
在他对面，前来巡视的铁路工程师费萨尔·伊姆兰(Faisal Imran)同情地听着这位悲伤的站长的话，然后说，这不仅关乎火车，不仅关乎曾经非常强大的国家铁路服务的颓败境况。这关乎巴基斯坦本身。
“The railways are the true image of our country,” he said, sipping his tea in the heat. “If you want to see Pakistan, see its railways.”
“铁路是我们国家的真实形象，”他在炎热的气候下一边说一边啜饮着茶。“如果你想看看巴基斯坦，就看它的铁路吧。”
For all the wonders offered by a train journey across Pakistan — a country of jaw-dropping landscapes, steeped in a rich history and filled with unexpected pleasures — it also presents some deeply troubling images.
巴基斯坦有令人叹为观止的景观，源远流长的丰富历史。乘火车周游巴基斯坦会让人看到很多奇观，给人很多惊喜，但同时也会目睹一些令人非常不安的画面。
At every major stop on the long line from Peshawar, in the northwest, to the turbulent port city of Karachi, lie reminders of why the country is a worry to its people, and to the wider world: natural disasters and entrenched insurgencies, abject poverty and feudal kleptocrats, and an economy near meltdown.
在从西北的白沙瓦到动荡的港口城市卡拉奇的漫长铁路线上，每个大站都有一些东西在提醒着人们，为何对它的人民乃至整个世界而言，巴基斯坦让人忧心：自然灾害、根深蒂固的叛乱、极度贫穷、封建贪官污吏以及濒临崩溃的经济。
The election last weekend was a hopeful moment for a struggling democracy, with the party of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif winning a huge mandate amid record voter turnout of nearly 60 percent. But the voting left undecided the larger battle against popular disillusionment. In a country forged on religion, Pakistanis are losing faith. People are desperate for change — for any improvement their proudly nuclear-armed government could make, yet has not.
对苦苦挣扎的民主体制而言，上周末的选举让人萌生希望。前总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)的政党高票胜出，选民投票率达到创纪录的近60%。但是，选举并未给更大的一场战役——消除民众的幻灭感——带来转机。在以宗教为基础立国的巴基斯坦，人们正失去信仰。他们渴望改变，渴望以拥有核武自豪的政府带来其能够做到、但尚未兑现的任何改善。
Chronic electricity shortages, up to 18 hours per day, have crippled industry and stoked public anger. The education and health systems are inadequate and in stark disrepair. The state airline, Pakistan International Airlines, which lost $32 million last year, is listing badly. The police are underpaid and corrupt, and militancy is spreading. There is a disturbing sense of drift.
长期的电力短缺（停电时间可长达每天18个小时）阻碍了工业发展，引发了公众的愤怒。教育和卫生系统不能满足需要，而且年久失修的情况非常严重。去年亏损3200万美元（约合1.96亿元人民币）的国有航空公司巴基斯坦国际航空公司(Pakistan International Airlines)表现依然糟糕。警察工资微薄，腐败成风，武装组织的势力正在蔓延。这个国家给人一种令人不安的得过且过的感觉。
This failure is the legacy of decades of misadventure, misrule and misfortune under both civilian and military leaders, but its price is being paid by the country’s 180 million people.
这一切都是文职和军事领导人领导下数十年不幸遭遇、弊政和灾难的后果，但代价却要这个国家的1.8亿人民来承担。
To them, the dire headlines about Taliban attacks and sterile arguments about failed states mean little. Their preoccupations are mundane, yet vitally important. They want jobs and educations for their children. They want fair treatment from their justice system and electricity that does not flicker out.
对他们而言，有关塔利班袭击的耸人听闻的新闻标题，以及有关失败国家的抽象争辩，都没什么意义。他们的心思很平凡，但也很关键。他们想要一份工作，希望子女接受教育。他们希望得到本国司法体系的公平对待，还能用上持续稳定的电力。
And they want trains that run on time.
他们希望火车能够准时。
Peshawar: The Scarred City
白沙瓦：伤城
At the journey’s beginning, policemen wielding AK-47s guard the train station in Peshawar, on the cusp of craggy mountains that climb into Afghanistan — one of about 40 such checkposts in a city that has long been a hub of intrigue, but that now finds itself openly at war. Since the first Taliban attacks about six years ago, the city has faced a relentless barrage of suicide bombings. No place can claim immunity: five-star hotels and religious shrines, bustling markets and the international airport, police stations and foreign consulates. Hundreds of people have died.
旅程的起点是白沙瓦，这里是绵延到阿富汗境内的崎岖山脉的尖端。手持AK-47自动步枪的警察守卫着白沙瓦火车站，这只是该市大约40个检查站之一。这座城市素以暗流汹涌闻名，但现在已陷入公开战争状态。自从六年前塔利班第一次发动攻击以来，这座城市就一直有自杀式爆炸发生，而且没有任何地方能够幸免：从五星级酒店到宗教圣地，从熙熙攘攘的市场到国际机场，从警察局到外国领事馆。已经有数百人命丧于此。
The train system has been deeply affected. Until a few years ago, the tracks stretched up to the storied Khyber Pass, 30 miles to the west, where one of the last steam trains chugged through the tribal belt. Now that line is closed, its tracks washed away by floodwaters and too dangerous to run even if it were intact, given the insurgent violence.
铁路系统受到了很大的影响。直到几年前，铁路还延伸到具有传奇色彩的开伯尔山口(Khyber Pass)。这个山口位于白沙瓦以西30英里（约48.3公里），最后一批蒸汽式火车之一曾轧轧地穿过这里的部落地带。这条线路目前已被关闭，其轨道已被洪水冲毁；即便轨道完好无损，由于武装叛乱分子的暴力袭击，要继续运行这条线路也太危险。
Khyber also gave its name to the country’s most famous train service, the Khyber Mail, immortalized by travel writers like Paul Theroux. It recalls the heyday of Pakistan’s railway raj, when the train was an elegant, popular mode of travel used by the wealthy and working classes alike, with liveried bearers carrying trays of tea, and pressed linen sheets and showers in the first-class carriages.
巴基斯坦最著名的铁路服务——开伯尔邮递(Khyber Mail)就得名于开伯尔山口。保罗·泰鲁(Paul Theroux)等旅行作家让它获得了不朽。它代表着英国殖民时期巴基斯坦铁路的鼎盛时期。当时，火车是一种优雅且受欢迎的交通方式，富人和工薪阶层都喜欢使用。身着制服的侍者端着茶盘，亚麻床单被熨烫得整整齐齐，头等车厢还配有淋浴。
But the Awami Express, which waited at the platform, had little of that old-world charm. The carriages were austere and dusty. Porters scurried about in tattered uniforms, taking modest tips from a trickle of passengers. Only one class of ticket, economy, was for sale. The train company, lacking generators, could not offer any air-conditioning.
但是，在站台上等着发车的阿瓦米快车(Awami Express)没有多少那种旧世界的魅力。它的车厢很简单，而且还落满了灰尘。行李员穿着破旧的制服匆忙地跑来跑去，从少量乘客那里拿着不多的小费。只卖一种席别的票，即二等票。缺少发电机的火车公司也无法提供任何空调。
“We are in crisis,” said Khair ul Bashar, the Peshawar stationmaster, surrounded by giant levers that switch the tracks. “We don’t have money, engineers or locomotives. That’s why there are delays.”
“我们陷入了危机，”白沙瓦火车站站长海尔·巴沙尔(Khair ul Bashar)说。他身边环绕着用来扳道的巨大控制杆。“我们没有钱，也没有工程师或铁路机车。这就是火车晚点的原因。”
The decrepitude of the 152-year-old railway system has, in recent years, been attributed largely to a Peshawar native: the previous rail minister, Ghulam Ahmed Bilour. A classic product of Pakistan’s patronage-driven politics, Mr. Bilour, 73, faced regular accusations of cronyism, using railway resources — money, land and jobs — to look after his own supporters. Meanwhile, service has floundered. Passenger numbers have plunged, train lines have closed and the freight business — the lifeblood of any train service — has crumbled. The last time the rail system turned a profit was in 1974.
近年来，这个有152年历史的铁路系统的衰落在很大程度上被归咎于一个白沙瓦人，即铁道部前部长古拉姆·艾哈迈德·比洛尔(Ghulam Ahmed Bilour)。比洛尔是巴基斯坦亲信政治的典型产物，73岁的他经常被指责任人唯亲，利用铁路资源——资金、土地和工作——施惠于自己的支持者。与此同时，铁路服务陷入困境。乘客人数骤减，铁路线被关闭，作为任何铁路服务生命线的货运业务也每况愈下。铁路系统上次盈利是在1974年。
Last year the national anticorruption agency placed Mr. Bilour under investigation; a court later jailed two of the railway’s top managers. The minister avoided prosecution, and in interviews has insisted that a lack of funding was the main problem. More recently, though, Mr. Bilour has become emblematic of another aspect of Pakistani politics: the complex relationship with violent extremism.
去年，国家反贪机构对比洛尔展开调查；法院后来监禁了铁路部门的两个高层管理人员。比洛尔逃脱了公诉，他在采访中坚称，缺乏资金才是主要问题。然而，比洛尔最近成了巴基斯坦政治另一个层面——与暴力极端主义的复杂关系——的象征。
When Peshawar erupted in deadly riots last October over an American-made video clip that insulted the Prophet Muhammad, enraged protesters attacked the city’s movie theaters, including one belonging to Mr. Bilour’s family. A day later, the minister made a controversial offer: he would pay $100,000 to anyone, militants included, who killed the offending filmmaker. That gesture ingratiated Mr. Bilour with the Taliban, who offered to remove him from their hit list, but deeply shamed his party, which had suffered fatal militant attacks. In Peshawar, people viewed it with irony: the Bilour cinema was notorious for showing racy films that the Taliban surely would not appreciate.
去年10月，白沙瓦因一段美国制作的侮辱先知穆罕默德的视频而爆发激烈暴乱，愤怒的抗议者袭击了该市的电影院，其中一家是比洛尔家族的资产。一天后，这位部长便发布一个有争议的悬赏：他将向杀死侮辱视频拍摄者的任何人（包括武装分子）支付10万美元。这个姿态使比洛尔迎合了塔利班（他们提出将他从刺杀名单上除名），但却让比洛尔所在的政党蒙受莫大耻辱，因为该党曾遭受武装分子的致命袭击。在白沙瓦，人们带着讽刺的眼光看待这件事：比洛尔家经营的电影院素以放映大胆激情的影片而名声不佳，这些电影想必不会得到塔利班的赞许。
But the cinemas represented more than just Western culture; they were a rare form of public entertainment in a city that is closing in on itself.
然而，这些影院代表的不只是西方文化；在这个正在自我封闭的城市，影院是一种难得的公共娱乐形式。
Khalid Saeed, the owner of one of the few theaters left standing in Peshawar, the Capitol, sat in the foyer of the once-grand 1930s-era building, surrounded by tatty posters advertising old action movies. Invading rioters broke his projector and set fire to the screen, he said, but mercifully the flames did not spread.
哈立德·赛义德(Khalid Saeed)是白沙瓦仅存的影院之一Capitol的老板，他坐在这座曾经辉煌的20世纪30年代建筑的大厅里，四周是些过时武打片的破旧海报。他说，闯进来的暴乱者打坏了他的放映机，给屏幕放了一把火，但幸运的是火焰没有蔓延开来。
Still, he said, he understood the frustration. “This is about religion, but it’s also about poverty,” he said, sucking on a cigarette. “There’s so much unemployment here. Young people have nothing to do, nowhere to go. You can read it in their faces. They get upset.”
可话说回来，他说他能理解那种愤懑情绪。他一边抽着烟一边说，“这跟宗教有关，但也跟贫穷有关。这里失业率这么高。年轻人没事做，没地方去。你能从他们脸上看出来。他们不开心。”
The rattle of Taliban violence has created a stronger curfew than the local police ever could. Mr. Saeed said his son dared not venture out after dark, fearing attack or kidnapping. And still the militants keep striking.
塔利班暴力的威胁产生了强大的宵禁效果，其威慑力是当地警方永远难以企及的。赛义德称，他儿子在天黑以后就不敢冒险出门，害怕挨揍或者被绑架。而武装分子还在不断袭击。
“Around here, nobody knows what will happen tomorrow,” he said with an air of quiet resignation. “What sort of life is that?”
他带着一种静静的无奈说，“在这里，没人知道明天会发生什么。这是一种什么样的生活呀？”
In Mr. Bilour’s case, the entire episode was for naught. A few months later, in December, the Taliban assassinated his younger brother, the politician Bashir Bilour. As election campaigning got under way recently, a Taliban suicide bomber nearly killed Mr. Bilour himself at a rally in Peshawar’s old city. Then, last weekend, he lost his Parliament seat to Imran Khan — the former sports star who has said the government should negotiate with the insurgents, not fight them.
就比洛尔而言，迎合塔利班的努力终究是徒劳的。几个月后，在去年12月，塔利班暗杀了他的弟弟、政界人士巴希尔·比洛尔(Bashir Bilour)。最近随着竞选活动的展开，塔利班的自杀炸弹袭击者在白沙瓦老城的一次集会上，差点炸死了比洛尔本人。接着，上周末，他在议会中的席位输给了前体育明星伊姆兰汗(Imran Khan)，伊姆兰汗称，政府应该与武装叛乱分子谈判，而不是与他们作战。
At Peshawar Station, the Awami Express slowly chugged out, brushing against the yawning canopies of gnarled trees and slicing through a crowded clothing market. The clattering grew faster, carriage doors swinging open and shut, as the train rumbled into the countryside. Its passengers — traders, government employees, large families — stretched out on aged leather seats.
在白沙瓦站，阿瓦米快车缓缓出站，擦着盘根错节的老树张开的树冠，穿过一个人头攒动的服装市场。随着火车隆隆地驶入乡村，咔嚓声变快，车厢的门一开一合地摇晃着。车上的乘客（商人、政府雇员、大家庭）在老旧的皮椅上伸展着肢体。
At Attock, the train crawled over a spectacular bridge spanning the Indus River, passing under an ancient hilltop fort built by a Mughal emperor in the 16th century, now occupied by the Pakistani Army.
在阿塔克，火车缓缓驶过一座横穿印度河(Indus River)的雄伟大桥，然后经过16世纪莫卧儿(Mughal)大帝修建的一座古老山顶城堡下，城堡现在被巴基斯坦陆军占用。
Sepia-toned images of sweeping train journeys occupy a central place in the Western imagination of the Indian subcontinent, from movie classics like “Gandhi” to the recent “Slumdog Millionaire.” In real life, the Awami Express possessed little of that romance. The 45-year-old diesel locomotive groaned as it belched pillowy black fumes. Fine clouds of dust entered through the open windows. The carriages jerked violently on the corners.
从经典电影《甘地》(Gandhi)到前几年拍摄的《贫民窟的百万富翁》(Slumdog Millionaire)，在西方对于印度次大陆的想象中，带有棕褐色调的长途火车旅行的画面占据着中心位置。现实生活中，阿瓦米快车没有那种浪漫。有着45年历史的柴油机车费力地运转着，喷出团团黑烟。细微的烟尘从开着的窗户里飘进车厢内。车厢四角剧烈地颠簸着。
It was not always so. Much as the American West filled out one train depot at a time, Pakistan was forged on steel rails. The state-owned train system, over 5,000 miles of track inherited from the British at independence in 1947, helped mesh a new and fractious country. Trains ferried migrants to the cities, provided a moving platform for campaigning politicians and played a role in the wars against India. It became — and remains — the country’s largest civilian employer, still with more than 80,000 employees.
事情并非总是如此。与美国西部开发时期哪里通了火车、哪里就会有开拓者一样，巴基斯坦当年是在钢轨基础上打造起来的。国有铁路系统在1947年独立后从英国殖民者接手了逾5000英里的轨道，该系统帮助凝聚了一个难以驾驭的新国家。火车把移民送进城市，为参加竞选的政客提供移动平台，还在对印度的历次战争中扮演了一定角色。它成了巴基斯坦雇佣平民最多的部门，而且仍然如此。目前仍有8万多人在铁路部门工作。
Today, though, decades of neglect have taken a heavy toll. On paper, Pakistan Railways has almost 500 engines, but in reality barely 150 are in working order. Most Pakistanis prefer to take the bus. Those left on the trains are often frustrated, sometimes mutinous.
然而，数十年的忽视对铁路系统造成了严重破坏。账面上，巴基斯坦铁路公司拥有将近500台铁路机车，但事实上能够正常运转的仅有150台。大多巴基斯坦人更愿意乘坐长途汽车。而那些不得不乘坐火车的人往往会感到沮丧，有时还会表示抗议。
Early last year, dozens of protesting passengers laid their children across the tracks in Multan, in southern Punjab Province. They were angry because a journey that should have taken 18 hours had lasted three days — and they were still only halfway to their destination.
去年早些时候，几十名表示抗议的乘客让自己的孩子躺在旁遮普省南部木尔坦的铁轨上。他们之所以愤怒，是因为本应该花费18小时的路程竟然持续了三天——而且他们离目的地还有一半路程。
Lahore: Class and Corruption
拉合尔：精英阶层与腐败
Almost on schedule, the Awami Express panted into the grand old station at Lahore. A Hollywood movie starring Ava Gardner was shot here in 1955; today the yard is cluttered with empty freight vans.
阿瓦米快车轰隆隆地几乎准时抵达了拉合尔宏伟壮观的旧火车站。1955年，由阿瓦·加德纳(Ava Gardner)主演的一部好莱坞电影就是在这里拍摄的；如今，调车场上杂乱地停放着空空的货运车厢。
Once the seat of Mughal emperors who ruled the Indian subcontinent, Lahore is the center of gravity for Pakistan’s cultural and military elite, a city of army barracks, tree-lined boulevards, artists and chic parties. It is also the headquarters of the 152-year-old railway empire. In the 1960s, Pakistan Railways was said to own one-third of the city’s land, and today the company is still run from a towering colonial-era palace, where clerks scurry between offices down polished corridors.
拉合尔曾经是统治印度次大陆的莫卧儿帝王的大本营，如今仍是巴基斯坦文化和军事精英的聚集地。这座城市里有军队营房、林荫大道、艺术家，还有时尚聚会。它还是有152年历史的铁路帝国的总部。20世纪60年代，据称巴基斯坦铁路公司拥有这座城市三分之一的土地，如今该公司仍以一栋殖民地时期的宏伟宫殿为总部，在这里，职员们通过华丽的走廊在不同的办公室之间奔忙着。
Up close, however, there is evidence of decline.
然而，如果仔细查看，你就会发现衰退的证据。
At the Mughalpura rail complex — a vast yard of workshops and train sheds stretched across 360 acres with 12,000 employees — workers were operating at 40 percent capacity, managers complained. Electricity cuts bring work to a halt, while entrenched unions, a rarity in Pakistan, stridently oppose any efforts to shed jobs or cut benefits. Unions blame management for corruption; managers say the unions are inflexible. Strikes are frequent.
在穆古尔普勒(Mughalpura)铁路修理厂——占地面积达360英亩（约合145.8公顷）的庞大厂区遍布着车间和火车棚，共有1.2万名员工——管理者抱怨工人只能发挥40%的产能。断电经常导致停工，而势力强大的工会（这在巴基斯坦是少见的）坚决反对任何裁员或削减福利的努力。工会指责管理层腐败，管理人员则说工会缺乏弹性。工人经常罢工。
Outside the plant gates, Muhammad Akram, a railway blacksmith, wore a tinsel garland that showed he was on a “token hunger strike,” from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. The system was on the verge of collapse, he said: “It’s like sitting on the edge of the sea, wondering when you will fall in.”
厂门外，铁路锻工穆罕默德·阿克拉姆(Muhammad Akram)戴着彩条，以显示他正在进行“象征性绝食抗议”，即从早上6点到下午6点。他说，整个系统现在处于崩溃的边缘，“就像坐在大海的边缘，揣测自己何时会掉下去。”
The misfortune of the railways has, however, benefited Lahore’s elite. Traditionally, the city’s wealth has stemmed from the surrounding countryside, where feudal landlords live off the rents of poor peasants. For decades, the landlords have epitomized Pakistan’s gaping divisions: paying no tax, treating seats in Parliament like family heirlooms, virtually a law unto themselves on their own lands. But things are changing. Of late, the landlords are being nudged aside by a new elite, one that has found a home in a gilded country club built on railway land.
然而，铁路系统的不幸却使拉合尔的精英阶层受益。长久以来，这座城市的财富都来自周边的农村，那里的封建地主靠贫穷农民的租金生活。数十年来，地主成了巴基斯坦两极分化的代表，他们不纳税，议院席位对他们来说就像是传家之宝一样，在自己的土地上几乎可以自行其是。但是，情况在变化。近年，地主被新的精英阶层推到了一边，这个精英阶层在建于铁路用地上的一个奢华乡村会所找到了家园。
The Royal Palm Golf and Country Club, a lavish facility with an 18-hole golf course, gyms, 3-D cinemas and cigar rooms, opened in 2002 at the height of the military rule of Gen. Pervez Musharraf. The club, which costs $8,000 to join, has become a showcase for new money: families that made their fortunes from property and industry, contacts and corruption.
设施豪华的皇家棕榈树高尔夫及乡村俱乐部(The Royal Palm Golf and Country Club)有18个洞的高尔夫球场、健身房、3D影院及雪茄房。该俱乐部于2002年开业。当时佩尔韦兹·穆沙拉夫将军(Pervez Musharraf)的军事统治正处于全盛时期。这里的入会费是8000美元。俱乐部已经成了新富阶层的秀场：那些通过房地产和工业、人脉以及腐败致富的家庭。
The Royal Palm’s glittering social functions, attended by men in expensive suits and women in ornate gowns, are a staple of local society magazines. The opening of a local Porsche dealership was celebrated here in 2005 with a gala dinner featuring exotic dancers flown in from Europe. Some events even offer alcohol, although guests are encouraged to drop their wine glasses when the cameras show up.
在皇家棕榈树耀眼的社交场合，男士身着昂贵西装，女士身穿华贵长裙。这种场合是当地社会杂志的主要内容。2005年，当地保时捷销售店庆祝开张，在此举行晚宴，还专门从欧洲请来异国情调的舞者。一些活动甚至提供酒水，只是在照相机出现的时候，就会请宾客放下酒杯。
“This is a family club, and a lifestyle choice,” said the manager, an architect named Parvez Qureshi, sitting in his stained-wood office overlooking the golf links.
建筑师出身的经理帕尔维兹·屈雷士(Parvez Qureshi)说道，“这是一个家庭俱乐部，是一种生活方式选择。”他的花纹木装修的办公室俯瞰高尔夫球场。
But the Royal Palm was also built on the bones of the railways.
但是，皇家棕榈树也建在铁道系统的地盘上。
The rail minister at the time was Lt. Gen. Javed Ashraf Qazi, an ally of General Musharraf’s and a former spy chief who leased the railway’s land to a consortium of businessmen. Critics accused him of giving the land away at a sweetheart rate.
当时的铁道部长是贾伟德·阿史拉夫·咭兹中将(Javed Ashraf Qazi)。他是穆沙拉夫的盟友，曾执掌间谍机构。他把铁路用地租给一个商人财团。批评者称，他低价出让了这些土地。
“It was not a clean deal. Absolutely not,” said Nasir Khalili, chairman of the Gardens Club, an officers social club with 1,400 members that had to surrender its property.
花园俱乐部(Gardens Club)主席纳西尔·卡里里(Nasir Khalili)称，“那笔交易不干净。绝对不干净。”这个有1400名会员的军官社交俱乐部被迫让出这一产业。
The National Accountability Bureau, which investigates official corruption, concluded last year that the Royal Palm deal had cost the government millions of dollars in lost revenue.
去年，负责调查官员腐败的国家问责局(The National Accountability Bureau)得出结论称，皇家棕榈树交易使政府损失了几百万美元的财政收入。
It was not the first time that the military had chipped at the rail system. Back in the 1980s, the military ruler Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq diverted train freight business to the National Logistics Cell, a military-run road haulage company that cornered the market for transporting wheat and other commodities. Less publicly it smuggled C.I.A.-financed weapons destined for mujahedeen rebels fighting the Soviets in Afghanistan.
这并非军方第一次蚕食铁路系统。早在20世纪80年代，军事统治者穆罕默德·齐亚·哈克(Mohammad Zia ul-Haq)就把铁路货运业务转给军方经营的道路运输公司——全国物流公司(National Logistics Cell)。该公司垄断小麦及其他大宗商品的运输市场。比较不为人所知的是，该公司还走私美国中央情报局(CIA)资助的武器，运给在阿富汗与苏联军队作战的圣战者武装分子。
“With freight gone, the railway was doomed,” said Salman Rashid, a travel writer who has specialized in the train network.
专门研究这一铁路网的游记作者萨尔曼·拉希德(Salman Rashid)称，“没有了货运业务，铁路注定要走上绝路。”
One evening, a raucous concert took place on the Royal Palm driving green. Thousands of teenagers crowded onto the grass to see Atif Aslam, a popular singer, in a performance sponsored by a cellphone company. Militant violence has curtailed public events in Lahore; most take place in such cloistered circumstances.
某天晚上，皇家棕榈树的高尔夫球场上举行了热闹的音乐会。数以千计的青少年在草地上观看流行歌星阿提夫·阿斯拉姆(Atif Aslam)演出，赞助方是一家手机公司。武装分子的暴力限制了拉合尔的公众活动；如今多数活动在这种与世隔绝的地方举行。
Before a crowd of about 4,000 young people, some joined by their parents, Mr. Aslam, wearing skinny jeans and a fur hat, bounded across the stage in a sea of testosterone, fluttering vocals and crashing guitars.
现场是荷尔蒙的的海洋，声潮涌动，吉他声震天。在4000名左右年轻人及一些父母面前，身穿紧身牛仔裤头戴皮帽的阿斯拉姆在舞台上跳来跳去。
To a foreigner, many posed a rhetorical question that betrayed their wounded sensitivity to Pakistan’s international image. “Do we look like terrorists?” asked Zuhaib Rafaqat, a 21-year-old computer student. “The West seems to think we are. But look at us — we’re just enjoying ourselves, like anyone else.”
很多人会反问外国人一个问题，流露出他们对巴基斯坦国际形象的敏感情绪。21岁的计算机学生祖海布·拉法卡特(Zuhaib Rafaqat)问道，“难道我们看起来像恐怖分子吗？西方人似乎认为我们是。但是，看看我们，我们和别人一样，也只是在享受生活而已。”
Sindh: Abiding Alienation
信德省：持久的异化
Charging across lush fields of wheat and cotton, the train crossed into Sindh Province, where it halted at Sukkur, on the Indus River. The Lansdowne Bridge, completed in 1889, spanned the water — one of several feats of engineering by the British colonialists who hacked through mountains, traversed ravines and cut across deserts to make a railroad in what has become Pakistan.
火车穿过小麦和棉花的苍翠田野，进入信德省，停在印度河河畔的苏库尔。竣工于1889年的兰斯道恩大桥横跨印度河。这是英国殖民者的几大工程壮举之一。当年，英国殖民者翻山越岭，穿过峡谷，越过沙漠，在后来成为巴基斯坦的地方建设铁路。
The railway project was foremost a tool of occupation: first to transport cheap cotton to English factories, later to move troops toward the northwestern frontier to guard against invasion from czarist Russia. Tens of thousands of construction workers died on the job, perishing in blistering summers and freezing winters, or from diseases like scurvy and malaria.
铁路工程首先是一种占领工具：先是向英格兰的工厂运输廉价棉花，后来将部队运往西北边陲抵御沙俄入侵。成千上万的工人在工地上丧生，一些人被酷暑和严寒夺走生命，另一些人则死于坏血病和疟疾等疾病。
South of Sukkur, waterlogged fields mark a modern calamity: the 2010 floods, which inundated about one-fifth of the country, affected 20 million people and caused up to $43 billion in economic losses, according to some estimates. Topsoil and entire villages washed away in muddy waves, never to return.
在苏库尔以南，被淹没的田地标志着一场当代灾难：2010年的洪水淹没了该国五分之一的土地，使2000万人受灾，根据一些估算，造成的经济损失高达430亿美元。表层土壤和整个村庄被混浊的洪水冲走，不见踪影。
In the Awami Express’s grimy dining car, a cook named Amir Khan stirred a greasy chicken broth over an open flame, then flopped onto a stack of soda crates. He gestured to the flood-scarred landscape.
在阿瓦米快车脏兮兮的餐车里，厨师阿米尔汗(Amir Khan)在明火炉灶上搅动着一锅油腻的鸡汤，然后把它放在一堆装苏打饮料的板条箱上。他冲着被洪水冲蚀的土地做了个手势。
“Zardari will show this to America, so that he can get some money,” Mr. Khan said with a cackling laugh, referring to President Asif Ali Zardari, who comes from Sindh. The cook wiped a mug clean, then paused reflectively. “Maybe if Benazir were alive, things would be different.”
“扎尔达里将把这幅景象展示给美国，这样他就能拿到一些钱。”阿米尔汗在提到老家在信德省的总统阿西夫·阿里·扎尔达里(Asif Ali Zardari)时大笑着说。他把一个杯子擦干净，然后停顿了一下，仿佛陷入沉思。“也许，如果贝娜齐尔还活着，情况会有所不同。”
The assassination of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in December 2007 was a traumatic event for Pakistan, but also for its railways. Enraged supporters attacked 30 train stations across her native Sindh, burning 137 coaches and 22 locomotives in a sulfurous protest at the failure of the state to protect Ms. Bhutto.
2007年12月，前总理贝娜齐尔·布托(Benazir Bhutto)被暗杀，这件事不仅给巴基斯坦带来创伤，还连累了该国的铁路系统。在她的故乡信德省，怒火万丈的支持者愤怒抗议政府没有保护好布托，他们冲击了省内的30个火车站，烧毁了137节车厢和22台铁路机车。
Still today, the trains present an easy target for disgruntled Pakistanis. As the Awami Express pushed south, the railway police passed through the train, brusquely searching passengers and their luggage. The police increased railway security after Baloch separatists exploded a small bomb at Lahore Station last year, killing two people. More recently, ethnic Sindhi separatists have singled out the train lines for attack.
即使在今天，火车也是不满的巴基斯坦人现成的攻击目标。随着阿瓦米快车继续向南行驶，铁路警察穿行于车厢，生硬地搜查乘客和他们的行李。去年，俾路(Baloch)分裂分子在拉合尔车站引爆一枚小型炸弹炸死两个人之后，警方提升了铁路安全警戒级别。最近，信德族分裂分子将列车作为袭击目标。
Sindh is the hub of Pakistan’s Hindu population, which, like other minorities, has suffered from deepening intolerance in recent years. Stories of forced conversion of Hindu women at the hands of Muslim zealots have caused media scandals; last year some Hindu families, complaining of prejudice, left for India. But they were an exception: most Hindus remained behind, and some are quietly thriving.
信德是巴基斯坦印度教人口的聚居地，印度教人和其他少数族裔一样，近年成为巴基斯坦社会包容度下降的受害者。穆斯林狂热分子强迫印度教妇女改教的事已成为媒体上的丑闻；去年一些抱怨遭到偏见的印度教家庭离开巴基斯坦去了印度。但他们是例外：大多数印度教人还是留了下来，有些人还过得相当不错。
At the southern city of Hyderabad, a train branch line jutted into the desert, toward the border with India. This was Thar, a desert region where, unusually, Hindus are predominant. A rural commuter service — a train with open doors and a handful of seats — ambled through irrigated farmland toward the desert. On board were farmers, small traders and pilgrims returning from a Hindu shrine, the bareheaded women adorned in gold and silver jewelry.
在南部城市海得拉巴，一条铁路支线伸向沙漠，指向印度边境的方向。这里是塔尔沙漠区，印度教人在这里不寻常地占多数。一项农村通勤服务——开着门、只有几个座位的火车——缓缓穿过浇灌的农田，向沙漠驶去。车上坐着农民、小商贩和从印度神社归来的朝圣者，没戴头巾的妇女戴着金银饰品。
At the district’s main town, Umerkot, the local colony of snake charmers lives in the shadow of a clay-walled fort. The chief snake charmer, wearing a bright red turban and playing a flute, entranced a cobra as it curled from a wicker basket. Later, he produced a government certificate that attested to his ability to “perform a dangerous act of passing three-foot snake from nostril and mouth.”
在该地区的主要城镇乌莫尔科特，耍蛇者活跃在土墙城堡的墙角下。耍蛇者首领戴着鲜红色的头巾，吹着笛子吸引一条眼镜蛇蜿蜒地从柳藤篮子里爬出来。后来，他出示了一份政府证书，证明他有能力“表演让三英尺长的蛇从鼻孔和嘴巴穿过的危险行为”。
“Half of our people are in India,” he said afterward, pointing toward the desert and the border. “But we feel ourselves 100 percent Pakistani.”
之后他指着沙漠和边境方向说，“我们中有一半人都在印度。但我们觉得自己是100%的巴基斯坦人。”
Karachi: The Slum Patriot
卡拉奇：平民窟里的爱国者
Land is gold in Karachi, Pakistan’s tremulous port megalopolis: a city of migrants, filled with opportunity and danger, where space is at a premium that is often paid in blood. Political parties, mullahs, criminal gangs and Taliban militants all battle for land in the city, often with weapons. The railways offer an easy target.
在巴基斯坦混乱的特大型港口城市卡拉奇，寸土寸金。这是一个移民城市，充满了机遇和危险，这里的土地供不应求，往往要用鲜血换来。政党、毛拉（伊斯兰教国家对大师、学者、神学家的尊称——译注）、犯罪团伙和塔利班武装分子都在这个城市争抢土地，而且往往动刀动枪。铁路构成一个容易得手的目标。
Slums crowd the train lines that snake through the city, pushing up against the tracks. Migrants have been coming here for decades, seeking economic opportunity or, more recently, fleeing Taliban violence.
贫民窟把蜿蜒着穿过卡拉奇的铁道线挤得水泄不通，逼近铁轨。数十年来，一直有移民前来卡拉奇寻找经济机遇，近年还为了逃离塔利班的暴力。
A short walk from Karachi’s main train station lies Railway Colony Gate No. 10: a cluster of rough shacks, pressed against a slope, bordered by a stagnant pool of black, putrid sewage.
从卡拉奇主要的火车站走一小段距离，便是10号铁路殖民门(Railway Colony Gate No. 10)。这是一片在一个斜坡上搭建的简陋棚屋，边上是一个死水池子，里面是散发着恶臭的黑色污水。
Among its residents is Nazir Ahmed Jan, a burly 30-year-old and an unlikely Pakistani patriot.
30岁的纳齐尔·艾哈迈德·贾恩(Nazir Ahmed Mughalpura )是这里的居民之一，身板结实的他是巴基斯坦一名令人不可思议的爱国者。
Mr. Jan, known to friends as Janu, is from the northwestern Swat Valley, where fighting erupted in 2009. After the Taliban arrived, his family fled Khwazakhela, a village “between the river and the mountain,” which he described with misty-eyed nostalgia: lush fields, soaring mountains and his family’s grocery store, later destroyed in fighting.
被朋友们称作贾努(Janu)的他来自西北部的斯瓦特山谷(Swat Valley)。那里在2009年爆发战事。塔利班到来后，他们家逃离了“一边是山一边是河”的赫沃泽赫勒(Khwazakhela)村。他泪眼婆娑地怀念着村子里作物繁茂的田地、高耸入云的山峦以及他家后来在交战中被毁的杂货店。
In contrast, Karachi is gritty and ugly, he acknowledged. He made his money selling “chola” — a cheap bean gruel — as he guided his pushcart through the railway slum. It earned him perhaps $3 a day — enough to feed his two infant children, if not much else.
他承认，相比之下，卡拉奇尘土飞扬，而且很丑。他推着手推车在铁路沿线的贫民窟里穿行，通过售卖“乔勒”(Chola)挣钱，这是一种廉价豆粥。他每天大约能挣3美元，勉强够他抚养两个年幼的孩子。
But Mr. Jan was an irrepressible optimist. At least Karachi was safe, relatively speaking, he said. And it had other attractions.
但贾恩是一个坚定的乐观主义者。他说，卡拉奇至少相对安全。而且，这儿还有其他一些吸引人的地方。
In the corner of his home was a battered computer, hooked up to the Internet via a stolen phone line. He used it to write poetry, mostly about his love for Pakistan, he said, pulling out a sample. One couplet read:
他家角落里有一台破旧的电脑，通过一条偷来的电话线连上了互联网。他说，自己用这台电脑写诗，那些诗基本上都是抒发他对巴基斯坦的热爱的。他抽出了一首诗作为例子。这首双韵体是这么写的：
“If you divide my body into 100 parts /a voice will cry from each one: Pakistan! Pakistan!"Mr. Jan’s face clouded. He had contacted national television stations, and even the army press service, trying to get his work published, he said, folding a page of verse slowly. But nobody was interested; for now the poetry was confined to his Facebook page.
“如果你把我的身体分成100份/每一部分都会呐喊：巴基斯坦！巴基斯坦！”贾恩的脸色阴沉了下来。他一边慢慢折叠一页诗，一边说，自己联系了几家全国性的电视台，甚至还有军队的报刊出版社，试图让自己的作品得到发表。但没人感兴趣；就现在而言，他的诗只能放在他自己的Facebook页面上。
“I just want to express my love for my country,” he said.
“我只想表达对我的祖国的热爱，”他说。
Distrusting politicians, he harbored a halcyon vision of what Pakistan could become: a country that offered justice, free education and health care, where leaders made the people wealthy, and not the other way round. “That would be the Islamic way of serving the people,” he said.
不相信政客的他，对于巴基斯坦的未来有一幅宁静美好的愿景：一个提供正义、免费的教育和医疗保健的国家，领导人让人民走向富裕，而不是谋取私利。“那将是伊斯兰式的服务于人民，”他说。
Mr. Jan smiled and, clasping his hands across his chest, excused himself. He had to work. The mountain migrant vanished down the street behind his pushcart, children scurrying around him. He whistled a Pashto folk tune, his soup jostling in the cart.
贾恩笑了，双手在胸前搓了一下，告辞了。他得工作了。这个来自山区的移民推着手推车，孩子们在他身边跑来跑去，他用口哨吹着一首普什图民歌，他的豆粥在马车上晃来晃去。渐渐地，他消失在街头的人群中。
From the distance came the sound of a hooting train, pulling into the station. It was surely late.
远方传来了火车鸣笛的声音，火车正在进站。肯定晚点了。