As the news rippled across the web last week that a Long Island student had won admission to all eight Ivy League universities, thousands of people reacted with messages of praise.
一名长岛学生被全部八所常春藤盟校录取的新闻，上周在网上引发热议，许多人纷纷留言表达赞赏。
But when Peter Kang, a high school senior in Chantilly, Va., saw a New York Times article last week about the student, Augusta Uwamanzu-Nna, on his Facebook feed, he grumbled.
然而，当弗吉尼亚州尚蒂利的高中毕业班学生彼得·康(Peter Kang)上周在自己的Facebook上看到一篇《纽约时报》文章，从中了解到这位名叫奥格丝塔·乌瓦曼祖-纳(Augusta Uwamanzu-Nna)的学生后，他发出的是一通怨言。
“This is exactly what is driving down college acceptance rates and making university that much harder to get into,” he wrote on the site, setting off a lively discussion in the comment thread.
“这恰恰就是导致大学录取率下降、上大学难度大幅增加的原因，”他在Facebook上写道，这番言论引起了评论栏里的一场热烈讨论。
The crux of Mr. Kang’s complaint, one shared by many other students, is that he and his peers are applying to too many colleges, driving down admission rates and elevating the prestige of selective universities, which leads more students to apply.
许多学生跟彼得·康有同样的不满，其关键在于，他和他的同学们申请了太多学校，导致录取率下降，让门槛高的大学愈发显得高不可攀，从而导致更多学生去申请。
“It just seems like a vicious cycle,” Mr. Kang, 17, said in an interview.
“这似乎就是一个恶性循环，”17岁的彼得·康在接受采访时说。
Admissions experts say Mr. Kang has a point.
招生专家说，他的话不无道理。
Mr. Kang blamed the Common Application, the standardized form that has risen in popularity and is now accepted by more than 600 colleges, including all the Ivy League universities. The ease of using the form has led many students to decide almost on a whim to add one, two or even 10 more universities to their list.
彼得·康认为问题出在“通用申请”(Common Application)上，这种标准化的表格近年流行了起来，已经被超过600所大学采用，包括所有常春藤盟校。这份表格使用很简便，以至于许多学生会想也不想就在申请里增加一所、两所甚至10所大学。
Mr. Kang admitted that he, too, chose to “blast send” his applications. He felt as if he had to. “I was one of those people that took advantage of the system,” he said.
彼得·康承认他在申请时也用了“万箭齐发”的办法。他觉得自己别无选择。“我也属于在占制度便宜的人，”他说。
He applied to 21 colleges, all but two through the Common Application, and won acceptance to six. All the Ivy League campuses to which he applied rejected him.
他申请了21所大学，只有两所不是通过“通用申请”提交的，其中六所录取了他。他申请了所有的常春藤盟校，但全部被拒。
The experience left him deflated, though despite his critique, he said he was happy for Ms. Uwamanzu-Nna (pronounced oo-wah-man-ZOO-nah), a child of Nigerian immigrants.
这样的经历让他深感气馁，不过，尽管有这些不满，他说他还是替乌瓦曼祖-纳高兴，她是一个尼日利亚移民的孩子。
“She did the same exact thing I did and she got the results, but I can’t be mad at someone trying to improve their odds,” he said. “It’s so much easier to apply and there’s so much pressure to apply.”
“她做了跟我完全一样的事情，但她出结果了，我不会因为别人去增加概率而生气，”他说。“现在申请太方便，而且承受很大的压力，必须去申请。”
Admissions experts point to a trend called application inflation. Students are sending off more applications than ever. In 1990, just 9 percent of students applied to seven or more schools, according to the National Association for College Admission Counseling. By 2013, that group had grown to 32 percent.
招生专家提到了一种叫做“入学申请通胀”的趋势。学生提交申请的数量之多是空前的。据大学招生咨询协会(National Association for College Admission Counseling)的统计，1990年只有9%的学生会申请七所或更多的学校。到了2013年，这个比例已经上升到32%。
But experts note that universities have taken steps to help to offset this trend.
但是专家还提到，大学已经开始采取行动止住这种势头。
As an example, imagine that 20 years ago Ms. Uwamanzu-Nna had applied to just four of the Ivies. All things being equal, the universities would have had a one-in-four chance of her attending. Fast forward to the present, and that drops to one in eight.
举例来说，设想20年前乌瓦曼祖-纳只申请了四所藤校。在同等条件下，她入读一所大学的概率为四分之一。快进到现在，这个概率就降到了八分之一。
To ensure that freshmen classes are filled, “somehow, those institutions have to compensate,” said David Hawkins, the association’s director of public policy.
为了确保招生满员，“这些学校需要想方设法去弥补，”招生咨询协会公共政策总监戴维·霍金斯(David Hawkins)说。
They do that, he said, in part by accepting more students. They are also marketing their campuses more aggressively to widen the applicant pool while, when making admissions decisions, putting greater weight on how serious students are about attending.
他说学校的其中一个做法是录取更多的学生。它们还会更主动地去推广自己，扩大申请的基数，此外在做录取决策的时候，它们会更多地去考虑这名学生是不是真的想要入读。
In the latest association survey, colleges attributed more importance to applicants’ so-called demonstrated interest than in class rank or teacher recommendations.
一项最新调查显示，大学更看重的是所谓申请者“表现出的兴趣”，而不是成绩排名或教师推荐。
At the same time, more and more universities are waiving application fees or buying the names of desirable students from testing agencies and sending them “fast track” applications that require little more than a signature.
与此同时，越来越多的大学开始免除申请手续费，或向考试机构购买抢手学生的名单，向他们发出“快速申请”手续，申请者只需签名即可。
Universities say the recruitment efforts are crucial to reaching students who might not otherwise apply as well as increasing campus diversity.
大学表示主动征召的行动是必不可少的，一方面能够触及一些原本不打算申请的学生，另一方面也能增进校内的多元化。
Critics, however, note that a more cynical motive is certainly at play.
然而批评人士指出，这其中显然还有一个更自私的动机。
“Colleges like to trumpet that they have record numbers of applications,” said Kent Rinehart, dean of undergraduate admission at Marist College, in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. “They like to turn away more students. It looks good to the alums, it looks good to the people on their campus, it looks good for rankings and ratings.”
“大学喜欢大肆宣传自己的申请人数屡创新高，”纽约州波基普西市玛利亚教会学院(Marist College)的本科生招生主任肯特·莱因哈特(Kent Rinehart)说。“他们喜欢拒绝更多学生。这对它们的毕业生来说是好事，对在校生来说是好事，对学校的排名和评级也有好处。”
The result of the shifting landscape in college admissions is more confusion and more anxiety for students — what one columnist called “The Great National Freak-out.”
大学招生图景的改变给学生们带来的，是更多的困惑和焦虑，这让他们陷入一名专栏作者所说的“全国大激愤”之中。
But admissions advisers say most students have reason to calm down. Even as competition has grown more fierce at the elite institutions the average acceptance rate at four-year colleges nationwide has remained fairly consistent at about 65 percent.
不过招生顾问们也表示，大多数学生有理由保持冷静。因为尽管精英院校的入学竞争变得更加激烈，但全国各地的四年制大学的平均入学率，依然非常平稳地保持在大约65%。
“The core message is that the number of students and the number of openings at colleges has not changed in some dramatic function,” Mr. Rinehart said. “What’s changed is the number of applications that students are submitting.”
“这里的核心信息是，学生人数和招生名额的比例没有发生剧烈变化，”莱因哈特说。“改变的是学生们提交的申请数量。”
For her part, Ms. Uwamanzu-Nna reiterated on Monday that she was not trying to run the board when using the Common Application to apply to all eight Ivies, along with four other colleges. She just hoped to get into one.
奥格丝塔·乌瓦曼祖-纳在周一重申，她通过“通用申请”申请全部八所常春藤盟校以及另外四所其他院校，不是为了拿到所有这些学校的入学资格，只是希望能被其中一所学校录取。
As for Mr. Kang, who was rejected by the Ivies, he says that in the fall, he expects to attend Clark University in Worcester, Mass., an alma mater to judges, business leaders and rocket scientists.
至于被这些常春藤盟校拒绝的彼得·康，他表示希望自己能在今年秋天进入马萨诸塞州伍斯特市的克拉克大学(Clark University)就读，这所学校曾诞生不少法官、商业领袖和火箭科学家。