I asked if he ever talked about it. Jason shook his head no. Did they find out anyway? “Always.”
我问他是否曾经开口谈过这件事。詹森摇头表示没有。那别人后来发现了吗？“总是有人发现。”
The first time was at Fort Benning in 1994, in the middle of the hell of basic training. The ex-cop recruits in boot camp with him said that prisoners had more freedom than they did. There were guys who faked suicide attempts to get out of basic. But Everman never had any doubts. “I was 100 percent,” he told me. “If I wasn’t, there was no way I’d get through it.”
第一次是1994年在贝宁堡，地狱般的基础训练刚刚进行到一半。和他同一个营地的新兵们有的以前当过警察，他们说监狱里的囚犯都比他们自由。有人假装自杀，好逃脱训练。但艾弗曼从未有过任何疑虑。“我百分百投入，”他说，“否则肯定没法挺过来。”
He had three drill sergeants, two of whom were sadists. Thank God it was the easygoing one who saw it. He was reading a magazine, when he slowly looked up and stared at Everman. Then the sergeant walked over, pointing to a page in the magazine. “Is this you?” It was a photo of the biggest band in the world, Nirvana. Kurt Cobain had just killed himself, and this was a story about his suicide. Next to Cobain was the band’s onetime second guitarist. A guy with long, strawberry blond curls. “Is this you?”
他有三个中士教官，其中两个是虐待狂。幸好管他的是比较随和的那一位。有一天，这位教官读着杂志，接着慢慢抬起头来望着艾弗曼，走过来指着杂志上的一页问他：“这是你吗？”照片上是世界上最出名的乐队——“涅槃”(Nirvana)。柯特·科本(Kurt Cobain)已经自杀，杂志上就是关于他自杀的报道。照片上，科本身边是乐队以前的第二吉他手，一头长发，有着略带金黄色的红色发卷。“这是你吗？”
Everman exhaled. “Yes, Drill Sergeant.”
艾弗曼呼出一口气。“是，教官。”
And that was only half of it. Jason Everman has the unique distinction of being the guy who was kicked out of Nirvana and Soundgarden, two rock bands that would sell roughly 100 million records combined. At 26, he wasn’t just Pete Best, the guy the Beatles left behind. He was Pete Best twice.
这还只是一半的故事。詹森·艾弗曼(Jason Everman)曾被“涅槃”和“声音花园”(Soundgarden)先后踢出去，这两支摇滚乐队后来卖出去的专辑加起来大概有一亿张，他可真是独一无二。26岁那年，他不仅是皮特·贝斯特(Pete Best)——就是被“披头士”(Beatles)抛弃的那家伙——他还是双份的皮特·贝斯特。
Then again, he wasn’t remotely. What Everman did afterward put him far outside the category of rock’n’roll footnote. He became an elite member of the U.S. Army Special Forces, one of those bearded guys riding around on horseback in Afghanistan fighting the Taliban.
但他并未销声匿迹。艾弗曼后来所做的事让他远离了摇滚乐的历史，却使他成了美国陆军特种部队成员，和其他留着大胡子的同伴们一起，在阿富汗骑着马与塔利班作战。
I’ve known Jason Everman since we played rock shows together nearly 25 years ago. What happened to him was almost inexplicable, a cruel combination of good luck, bad luck and the kind of disappointment that would have overwhelmed me even at my most brashly defiant. After having not seen him since the early ’90s, I ended up hanging out with him in his apartment in Brooklyn last summer. We had drinks, retraced steps. We once were in the same place in our lives. But mine had since quietly transitioned from rock to parenthood. My changes were glacial. His were violent.
我在25年前就认识詹森·艾弗曼了，当时我们一起做过摇滚演出。他的遭遇简直是莫名其妙，是一连串好运、噩运与失望的残酷组合，即便在我自己最狂妄自负的时候，这样的事也足以打倒我。自从20世纪90年代初以后，我就再也没见过他，结果去年夏天我又开始去他布鲁克林的家里玩。我们喝酒，回忆往事。我们在过去的生命中曾经置身同一地点。但我的生活渐渐地从摇滚乐转向身为人父。我的转变如同冰川般缓慢。而他的转变却是如此剧烈。
None of it is easy for him to talk about. Jason is one of the most guarded people I have ever met. But when I pulled up to his remote A-frame cabin near Puget Sound last winter, there he was, a sturdy, tall figure in a Black Flag sweatshirt holding a glass of red wine. This was his private place, and he was letting me into it.
谈起这一切对他来说并不容易。詹森是我见过的最有戒心的人之一。但去年冬天，我去了他在菩及海湾附近那个偏僻的尖顶小木屋。高大粗壮的他身穿一件“黑旗”套头衫，手拿一杯红酒。这里是他的私人领地，他让我进来了。
Books and action figures covered one wall. Guitars and drums were scattered on the floor. But the far wall almost looked like a memorial: medals, artifacts, war photos. I took it all in, asking about a hand-decorated gun on the fireplace. “That’s how the Taliban trick out their weapons,” he said. Then I picked up his Army helmet. It seemed heavy to me. “Dude, that’s light,” he said. “That’s state of the art.” It had his blood type still written on the side: O positive.
一面墙的壁架上摆满书籍和人物模型。吉他和鼓七零八散地放在地板上。但是最里面的一面墙看上去有点像一座纪念碑：上面挂着奖章、手工艺品和战争期间的照片。我全都看了一遍，还问起壁炉边一把带手工装饰的枪支的来历。“塔利班就是这么装饰他们的武器，”他说。然后我又拿起他的军用头盔。我觉得有点沉。“伙计，这还是轻的呢，”他说，“这是最先进的型号。”头盔一侧写着他的血型：O型阳性。
The first time I met Everman was also the first time I ever stepped foot on a tour bus. It was 1989, which was a confusing time to be in a rock band. My band, Bullet LaVolta, had been on tour with the Seattle group we admired most, Mudhoney. They were role models to us. They didn’t just have a sense of the punk-rock rules of the day; they pretty much set them. Just as it does now, the grown-up economy seemed to have little use for 20-somethings like us. The mainstream music business didn’t, either. Our kind of punk rock was all about creating your own place, doing music for its own sake, usually the opposite of what was popular. If you wanted to “make it,” you played pandering cheese-metal like Warrant or Slaughter, the bands on MTV. They were bad. We were good. It was all so cut and dried.
初次遇到艾弗曼，也是我生平第一次登上巡演大巴。那是在1989年，对于一个摇滚乐手来说颇为困惑的年份。我的乐队“沃尔塔舞子弹”(Bullet LaVolta)和我们最敬仰的西雅图乐队“蜜浆”(Mudhoney)一起巡演。他们是我们的榜样。他们不仅有当时的那种朋克摇滚意识；而且那种意识很大程度上就是由他们确立的。和现在一样，大人的经济体制对于我们这样20多岁的人没什么用处。主流音乐产业也一样没用。我们这种朋克摇滚只关心创造自己的领地，为音乐而音乐，通常是什么流行就反对什么。如果你想“成功”，那就像“许可证”(Warrant)、“屠夫”(Slaughter)还有那些MTV台里的乐队那样去搞点甜腻谄媚的金属乐吧。他们是坏的，我们是好的。一切就是这么黑白分明。
The next-to-last show of our Mudhoney tour was in Chicago, where both bands were to open for Soundgarden at the Cabaret Metro, the biggest venue of the trip. Soundgarden was a much bigger deal in music circles than Nirvana at the time. As crazy as this may sound, Nirvana was a joke to all of us — a generic grunge band with a terrible name. Soundgarden had signed a big contract with A&M Records. People in the music business believed it was the one band that would break through. We didn’t know what to think. We were threatened, jealous, judgmental. As Dan Peters, Mudhoney’s drummer, remembered: “We were both showing up in vans, and they had a big old bus. It was weird.”
我们和“蜜浆”的巡演倒数第二站是在芝加哥的“卡巴莱都市”，这是整个巡演中最大的场地。我们两支乐队都给“声音花园”做暖场。当时在音乐圈里，“声音花园”要比“涅槃”有名得多。听上去虽然疯狂，但那时“涅槃”对于我们所有人来说都只是个笑话——一支平庸的grunge乐队，还起了个糟糕的名字。“声音花园”当时已经和A&M唱片公司签了大合同。音乐界的人都觉得这支乐队会取得突破。我们不知如何是好，我们感觉受了威胁，对他们又妒忌又挑剔。正如“蜜浆”的鼓手丹·彼得斯(Dan Peters)说的：“我们都是坐面包车去的，他们却有一辆大巴。感觉真是奇怪。”
Soundgarden was the most professional rock operation I’d ever seen. They had a full crew, the full major-label push and 16 different T-shirts for sale. They also happened to be exceedingly nice, inviting us onto their bus. When the doors hissed open, we dropped silent in awe. It had a minifridge. A card table with a faux marble base. It had a bathroom.
“声音花园”是我当时见过的最专业的摇滚团队。他们有全套工作人员，全套大厂牌的宣传攻势，还有16款T恤供出售。他们心血来潮，一时慷慨，邀请我们到他们的大巴去做客。当车门嘶嘶地打开，我们都敬畏得哑口无言——里面有个小冰箱，一张带仿大理石桌面的纸牌桌，甚至还有个卫生间。
We made it past the bunks to the lounge. And there he was: Soundgarden’s bassist, Jason Everman. You couldn’t look more “rock dude” than he did: all that hair, the dour expression. It was an imposing energy to encounter in tubular mood lighting. And he was the first person I ever met with a nose ring. At the time, I read it as a flashing sign that said, “I will have unbearable attitude.” But he didn’t at all. In fact, he was smart and had a dry wit. He offered me Funyuns.
我们穿过座椅，来到休息区。他就在那儿：“声音花园”的贝斯手，詹森·艾弗曼。没有谁比他更像“摇滚小子”了：一头长发，一脸冷峻的表情。他身上仿佛有着日光灯管里交汇的那种强大能量。而且他还是我第一次见到穿鼻环的人。当时我觉得鼻环就像个惹眼的招牌，意思是：“我脾气不好，什么也忍不了。”但他根本不是这样。事实上，他聪明伶俐，有种不动声色的机智。他给了我点洋葱圈吃。
The rest of that night was just as confusing. We went on so early that people were still arriving as we finished. Mudhoney was great but sounded strange in a cavernous room. And Soundgarden left us mystified. They seemed to have their eyes on a bigger prize, one we couldn’t see yet. As I watched Jason onstage — his rock hair pounding — it dawned on me: “My God, these guys are going to be rock stars.”
当晚接下来的时间令人困惑。我们上台太早，下台时还在有人陆续到场。“蜜浆”很棒，但在洞穴般的大场地，他们的声音听上去怪怪的。“声音花园”让我们大惑不解。他们关注的似乎是更大的荣誉，在当时我们还不能理解。我望着台上的詹森——他的摇滚发型不住抖动，让我目不转睛：“我的天，这些家伙快成摇滚明星了。”
Everman was born on a remote Alaskan island. “My birth certificate says Kodiak, but I’m pretty sure it was Ouzinkie, where my parents lived in a two-room cabin with a pet ocelot named Kia.” That odd precision is how he talks. He’ll describe soldiers as “freemen, who, of their own volition,” are willing to “lose everything” or carefully explain the “epistemological dilemma” in Dr. Seuss’s “Horton Hears a Who!” And yet his thoughts still tend to be underlined with a distinctive “dude.” His parents, Diane and Jerry, moved to Alaska to get back to nature, but the marriage didn’t work out. Diane couldn’t take the harsh life, and after a couple of years she left Jerry and started over. She took Jason to Washington and eventually married a former Navy man named Russ Sieber. They settled in the Poulsbo area, across Puget Sound from Seattle. Jason’s mother never told him about the Alaska years. His half-sister, Mimi MacKay, with whom he grew up, said Jason didn’t know his real father existed until he was 13 or so.
艾弗曼出生于阿拉斯加一个偏远的小岛。“出生证上写的出生地是科迪亚克，但我肯定是伍津基，我爸妈在那儿有一处两个卧室的小房子，还养了一只叫基亚的虎猫当宠物。”他说话就是这样，带着一种奇异的准确性。他描述士兵是“自由人，有他们自己的意志”，愿意“失去一切”；他还详细地阐释苏斯博士(Dr. Seuss)的小说《霍顿与无名氏》(Horton Hears a Who!)里的“认识论困境”，说话时不时插进一个颇有特色的“伙计”(dude)，来强调自己的思路。他的父母，戴安娜和杰里搬到阿拉斯加是为了亲近自然，但他们的婚姻失败了。戴安娜受不了艰苦的生活，过了几年，她离开杰里，重新开始生活，带着詹森来到华盛顿州，后来嫁给一个叫拉斯·西波尔(Russ Sieber)的前海军。他们在普尔斯波定居下来，那里同西雅图隔着菩及海湾遥遥相望。詹森的母亲从没对他讲过当年在阿拉斯加的岁月，和他从小一起长大的异父妹妹咪咪·麦克凯(Mimi MacKay)说詹森直到13岁左右才知道亲生父亲的存在。
Poulsbo, back then, was right on the edge of suburban safety. Though Diane adored Jason, growing up in their house wasn’t easy. “My mother was extremely depressed, an artistic genius who was also a pill-popping alcoholic,” Mimi told me. “Jason and I learned to walk on eggshells and really learned to take care of ourselves.” As a young boy, Jason went through a phase of stuttering. “My mom joked that this is how she cured Jason, by telling him, ‘Either spit it out or shut up,’ ” Mimi said. “I became really adept at finishing his sentences for him.”
当时的普尔斯波位于城郊安全地带的边缘。尽管戴安娜爱詹森，但在这个家里长大成人并非易事。“我妈妈非常抑郁，她是个艺术天才，同时也酗酒、吃药，”咪咪告诉我，“詹森和我都学会了战战兢兢地生活，也学会了自己照顾自己。”年轻的詹森有段时间一直口吃。“妈妈开玩笑说是她治好了詹森，说：‘要么就说出来，要么就闭嘴’，”咪咪说，“那阵子我经常帮詹森把一句话补完。”
Soon the silence evolved into acting out. He and a friend blew up a toilet with an M-80. What might have landed a kid in jail today only got him suspended for a week or two of junior high in the early ’80s. Still, his grandmother Gigi was alarmed. Gigi Phillips was one of the people Jason was closest to. And she wasn’t going to mess around with this kind of trouble. She got the best therapist she could find, who happened to be, Mimi was told, the sports psychiatrist to the Seattle SuperSonics.
不久后沉默发展为行动。他和一个朋友在厕所燃放M-80炸药。如今这种行为可能令一个孩子被判入狱，但在20世纪80年代初，只是让这个初中生停学了一两个星期。但这件事还是把他的外祖母吉吉(Gigi)吓得不轻。吉吉·菲利普斯是詹森最亲近的人之一。她可不想卷进类似麻烦，于是去咨询了自己能找到的最好的治疗师，咪咪说，是西雅图SuperSonics中心的运动员精神病医师。
In therapy, Everman just sat there. But the doctor happened to be a music freak and had a few vintage guitars around the office. Everman picked one up. The therapist started to strum with him, hoping this would open Jason up. “It was a big family joke that those were the most expensive guitar lessons ever,” Mimi told me. That’s when Everman first started playing guitar.
在治疗过程中，艾弗曼只需坐在那儿。但医生正好是个疯狂乐迷，办公室里有好几把复古吉他。艾弗曼拿起一把，医生就和他一起弹，希望能让詹森开朗起来。“我们家总拿这件事开玩笑，说这可是最昂贵的吉他课了，”咪咪说。艾弗曼就是从那时起开始弹吉他。
Music changed everything for him, especially after he discovered punk rock. “I’d have to say that was the first defining event in my life,” he told me. “In punk there’s an extreme kind of conformity to all the nonconformity. You realize in all this rebellion that everyone’s doing the same thing. But in a weird way, that’s what kind of lets you eventually forget the rules, and you can be yourself.” During high school, Everman spent much of his free time playing in bands. In the summer after his junior year, he started visiting his biological father in Alaska, where he spent several seasons working on his fishing boat. He graduated a semester early, and soon he had earned $20,000 and a reputation for being self-sufficient.
音乐改变了一切，特别是当他发现了朋克摇滚之后。“我得说那是我人生中第一桩决定性的事件，”他告诉我，“朋克音乐中，所有那些不一致的东西里，却存在着一种极端的一致性。你会发现，所有人在各种反叛行动当中其实做的是同样的事情，却以一种奇异的方式令你最终忘记规则，让你成为你自己。”整个中学阶段，艾弗曼用所有的业余时间搞乐队。从初中毕业那年夏天起，他开始去探望阿拉斯加的生父，在他的捕鱼船上工作了好几季。他提前一个学期从中学毕业，很快赚了两万美元，还为自己赢得了自食其力的名声。
It was then that he got the kind of break you read about in paperback rock biographies. Jason’s childhood friend Chad Channing happened to meet a guitarist and a bassist from Olympia looking for a drummer. They were Kurt Cobain and Krist Novoselic, and they called their band Nirvana. Channing played drums for many of their ramshackle early shows. When Cobain considered getting another guitar player, Channing piped up. “I was like: ‘I know this guy. This friend of mine, Jason.’ ”
就在那时，他取得了某种突破，你可以在摇滚传记平装书里读到这个故事。詹森的童年朋友查德·钱宁(Chad Channing)碰巧认识了一个吉他手和一个贝斯手，他们从奥林匹亚来，想找鼓手。两人正是柯特·科本和克里斯·诺沃塞利克(Krist Novoselic)，他们把自己的乐队叫做“涅槃”。钱宁为他们马虎草率的早期演出打了很多场鼓。后来科本想再招一个吉他手，钱宁突然插嘴。“我当时说：‘我认识一个人，是我的朋友，詹森。’”
At first, Everman seemed to be the perfect fit. These were irreverent guys who had all set off bombs in their own way. Nirvana’s gloominess is such a part of the band’s mythology now, but Cobain was also wickedly funny. As Novoselic put it to me, “We were fun-loving dudes.” Onstage, Nirvana had entered a heavy phase, perfectly suited to Everman’s rock vibes. Jonathan Poneman, co-founder of Sub Pop Records, the label that signed Nirvana, told me that Cobain introduced Everman as his “surprise” before a sound check in San Francisco. Poneman loved the new guy.
一开始，艾弗曼似乎是最适合的人选。他们是离经叛道的一群人，都干过类似放炸药之类的事情。“涅槃”的阴郁气质如今已经成为乐队神话的一部分，但科本同时也非常顽皮有趣。正如诺沃塞利克对我说的，“我们是一群喜欢找乐子的家伙。”在舞台上，“涅槃 ”的音乐进入一个比较重的时期，非常适合艾弗曼的摇滚品味。Sub Pop唱片公司的创始人之一乔纳森·博尼曼(Jonathan Poneman)告诉我，科本在旧金山试音之前先介绍了艾弗曼，说他是自己的“惊喜”，Sub Pop后来签下了“涅槃”。博尼曼也喜欢这个新人。
Everman also helped the band in another way. Nirvana owed money to the producer of their first album, “Bleach,” which they’d already recorded. “Jason was very generous,” Novoselic said. “And he’d had a job. . . . So he had, like, bucks, O.K.? You know how it said it was recorded for like six hundred and something bucks on the back of the record? Jason paid for that.” It was $606.17, which came out of Everman’s fishing money. Sub Pop thought so much of him that it printed a limited-edition live poster of Jason rocking out.
艾弗曼还在其他方面帮助了乐队。“涅槃”在录制第一张专辑《漂白》(Bleach)时欠了制作人一笔钱，艾弗曼加入之前，这张专辑已经录好了。“詹森非常慷慨，”诺沃塞利克说，“而且他有工作……所以就，这个，有钱，对吧？你知道我们花了600美元录了专辑，还有专辑背面写着的那些事吧？詹森掏了那笔钱。”那是606.17美元，是艾弗曼打渔赚的钱。Sub Pop很看重他，于是印制了一批限量版现场海报，特别突出詹森的形象。
But it was when the band hit the road — piling into a cruddy van, as we all did — that it came undone for Everman and Nirvana. A tour is tough for anyone to handle, especially the first one. The days are 23 hours of stultifying boredom — all so you can have one hour onstage, one hour of visceral release that makes it worthwhile. Between the hangovers, the stink, the beaten-to-death inside jokes, touring can make anybody crazy. The key is to keep the van fun. The guy next to you may love you when you start, only to hate the way you keep asking him to turn the Stooges down 100 miles later. “We had some great shows with Jason,” Novoselic said. “But then things went south really fast.” Somewhere along the way, a cloud formed over Jason, an impenetrable inwardness that just hung there. They say he wouldn’t talk to anyone, completely removing himself from the circle.
但后来乐队去巡演的时候——和我们大家一样，也是挤在破烂的面包车里——艾弗曼和“涅槃”的关系走到了尽头。巡演对任何人来说都是艰苦的，特别是第一次参加巡演的人。一天23小时都处在单调乏味的状态，都只为了在舞台上的那一个小时，释放内心的一个小时，让一切都变得值得。宿醉、恶臭、不留情面地互相开玩笑……巡演会让任何人发疯。关键就是要在面包车里找乐子。坐在你身边的那个人可能一开始喜欢你，但等车子开出去100英里以外，你还在不住要他别再放“丑角”(Stooges)的歌了，这时他可能就会烦你。“我们和詹森一起有过很棒的演出，” 诺沃塞利克说，“但是事情急转直下。”在巡演路上，不知从什么时候开始，有片阴云笼罩了詹森，某些无法理解的东西悬在那里。他们说詹森不愿和任何人说话，完全把自己排除在圈子之外。
By the time they made it to New York, “the fun stopped,” Novoselic remembered. “The fun stopped fast.” Channing was confused by it, too, and he was one of Everman’s oldest friends. “He doesn’t talk freely when things are bothering him,” Channing said. It just seemed as if he didn’t want to be there. Cobain and Novoselic wanted Everman out but didn’t know how to do it. That’s the inherent contradiction of punk-rock rules: you were supposed to hate careerism yet still have a career. And 20-year-old kids aren’t particularly good at sorting that out. So Nirvana didn’t actually fire Everman; the band canceled the rest of the tour and drove straight from New York to Washington State, 50 hours in silence. Hardly a word was spoken.
等他们到了纽约，“乐趣就消失了，”诺沃塞利克说，“乐趣消失得很快。”钱宁也觉得很困惑，他是艾弗曼最老的朋友之一。“他不肯开诚布公地谈出困扰他的问题，”钱宁说。他好像就是不愿意呆在那儿。科本和诺沃塞利克希望艾弗曼离队，但又不知该怎么做。这是朋克摇滚规则中固有的矛盾：你应该憎恨追名逐利，但同时你又拥有名利。20多岁的孩子们更是特别不擅长处理这种事。所以“涅槃”并没有真正炒掉艾弗曼；他们只是取消了巡演剩下的几场演出，径直从纽约开车回了华盛顿州，归程的50个小时都在沉默中读过。所有人几乎一句话都没说。
Even with more than 20 years of perspective, Everman still doesn’t have a clear answer for what went wrong. “To be honest, I never had any expectations about the gig,” he told me. “It just ended.” In “Come as You Are,” the definitive book on Nirvana, by Michael Azerrad, Cobain dismissed Everman as a “moody metalhead.” Even worse, he boasted about not paying Everman back for “Bleach,” claiming it was payment for “mental damages.” In Nirvana — a band with a lead singer so famously tortured that he would commit suicide — Jason Everman was kicked out for being a head case.
甚至在20多年后的今天，回忆往事，艾弗曼还是没能说清当时是什么地方不对。“坦白地说，我对那份工作根本就没什么期待，”他告诉我。“就是结束了而已。”在“涅槃”的权威传记《关于一个孩子》（Come as You Are，中译书名如此——译注）里，作者迈克尔·阿泽拉德(Michael Azerrad)说，科本开除艾弗曼是因为他是个“情绪化的金属狂”。更糟的是，科本还扬言乐队没有归还艾弗曼为《漂白》掏的钱，因为那是“精神损失费”——“涅槃”的主唱以备受痛苦，最终走上自杀之路闻名，詹森·艾弗曼却以脑子有毛病为由被踢出这支乐队。
The timing for what happened next was baffling. After years of playing every lousy gig they could, Soundgarden had A&M Records behind them, a tour bus waiting, a full slate of tour dates booked. But Soundgarden’s bass player, Hiro Yamamoto, didn’t want anything to do with it. Their road manager, Eric Johnson, told me: “He really was just truly punk rock. There were meetings with A.&R. guys, and it was no longer dudes in a van. He was all like: ‘Oh, no, no, no. This isn’t for me.’ ” In 1989, just as their first major-label album, “Louder Than Love,” was released, Yamamoto abruptly quit the band.
接下来的事情，发生的时机非常令人困惑。经历了多年劣质的小演出，“声音花园”终于获得了A&M唱片公司的青睐，一辆巡演大巴在等待，一整套巡演日程已经定好。但他们的贝斯手Hiro Yamamoto却不想和这事沾边。他们的巡演经纪人埃里克·约翰逊告诉我：“他是个真朋克。他们和艺人发展部的人开会，今后再也不用挤面包车了，他却说：‘啊，不不不，这个不适合我。’”1989年，“声音花园”签约大厂牌后的第一张专辑《比爱更响亮》(Louder Than Love)发行后，Yamamoto突然退出了乐队。
Everman had always liked Nirvana, but he loved Soundgarden. Playing bass for them — on the verge of stardom as they were — was the most-coveted gig in Seattle — even one of Everman’s old friends, Ben Shepherd, auditioned. Soundgarden, meanwhile, had called Jason right away. “We knew things ended with Nirvana on less-than-ideal terms,” Kim Thayil, their guitarist, told me. “He didn’t fit with Nirvana? Big deal. That’s them. We’re Soundgarden. We’re a different animal.” In the first audition, he impressed them all. “Jason was the guy,” Soundgarden’s drummer, Matt Cameron, remembered. “Jason came prepared.” After the disaster with Nirvana, now Everman was playing bass for his favorite Seattle band. He couldn’t believe his luck. As he put it to me, “What were the chances of all that happening?”
艾弗曼一直都喜欢“涅槃”，但他热爱“声音花园”。为他们弹贝斯——而且是在他们即将当上明星的时候——这是全西雅图最令人垂涎的机会，就连艾弗曼的老朋友本·谢泼德(Ben Shepherd)也去试过音。与此同时，“声音花园”直接给詹森打了电话。“我们知道他和‘涅槃’的关系结束得不怎么样，“声音花园”的吉他手基姆·塔伊尔(Kim Thayil)告诉我。“他和‘涅槃’相处不好？这是大事，他们的风格就是这样。我们是‘声音花园’，我们是另一种人。”第一次试音，艾弗曼就给所有人都留下了深刻印象。“詹森就是合适的人选，”“声音花园”的鼓手马特·卡梅隆(Matt Cameron)回忆，“詹森有备而来。”“涅槃”的灾难之后，艾弗曼可以在自己最喜欢的西雅图乐队里弹贝斯了。他简直不敢相信自己的好运，正如他对我说的：“这一切怎么会这么巧？”
The next year was a blur of touring throughout the United States and Europe. Only 22, Everman still felt behind. Everybody in the band was several years older than he was. “I was drinking water from a fire hose,” he said. “But I thought this was it. This was going to be my identity.” So did I. After that show in Chicago, Bullet LaVolta opened for Soundgarden for a month. And if I was initially judgmental about their ambitions, I realized it was more complicated after seeing it up close. There’s pressure when you’re supposed to be the next big thing. People believed it was going to work, too. In town after town, I watched bands fawn over Soundgarden, Everman included. He was who they all wanted to be.
接下来的一年在美国与欧洲巡演中匆忙度过。22岁的艾弗曼仍然觉得有点跟不上形式。乐队里其他人都比他大几岁。“我感觉就像对着消防水龙喝水，”他说，“但我觉得事情就是这样，这就是我的应该扮演的角色。”其实我也是这样，芝加哥的演出结束后，“沃尔塔舞子弹”为“声音花园”做了一个月的暖场。我一开始对他们的抱负很品头评足，后来也渐渐开始认识到，近距离地看上去，一切都要复杂得多。别人都认为你将会是明日之星，这种压力是很大的。而且人们都觉得乐队一定会成功。一座城市接着一座城市，我看着人们对“声音花园”阿谀奉承，艾弗曼也在内，所有人都羡慕他。
When Soundgarden returned home, they called a band meeting. Jason showed up on Cameron’s porch thinking it was about the next record. Thayil told me, “I thought I would be diplomatic . . . and wasn’t getting to the point.” He said Chris Cornell, Soundgarden’s singer, finally cut to the chase: It wasn’t working out, Cornell said. Thayil remembers thinking: We’re not behaving like a band. I’m not happy. No one here is happy. No one’s talking to each other. Just like that, Everman was fired again.
“声音花园”结束巡演回家后，他们召开了一个乐队会议。詹森来到卡梅隆家的门廊，还以为是要说新专辑的事。塔伊尔对我说：“我当时觉得自己应该拿出点外交技巧……没有直奔主题。”他说，最后是主唱克里斯·康奈尔(Chris Cornell)把话说出来了：合作没能成功，康奈尔说。塔伊尔记得自己当时想：我们表现得根本不像一个乐队，我很不高兴，在这儿的所有人都不高兴。所有人都互不说话。就这样，艾弗曼又被炒了。
When I heard the news, it made me worry for him. He’d been kicked out of a band with a bright future for a second time. There had to be a reason. Cameron kept wanting to say: “Hey, why so moody? You’re in a good band.” Johnson, the road manager, couldn’t figure it out: “He was funny and witty, and then a cloud would come over him. He would sit in the bus and be really mad with his headphones on all the time. I felt bad for the guy, and I feel even worse now, thinking about somehow he was suffering and nobody really knew how to address that.”
当时听说这个消息后，我有些担心他。他接连两次被前途一片光明的乐队开除，总得有个原因吧。卡梅隆一直都想对他说：“嘿，干嘛那么忧郁？你是在一个好乐队里呀。”巡演经纪人约翰逊也不知道这是为什么：“他本来聪明又有趣，然后就有一片阴云过来笼罩在他头顶上。他会坐在大巴里一直跟耳机较劲。我为他感到难过；现在我一想到他当时很痛苦，而且没人知道该怎么跟他说，心里就觉得更难过。”
I don’t know how he got through the next year. Everman’s friend from home, Ben Shepherd, replaced him in Soundgarden. Their next album went double platinum. Of course, Nirvana — after replacing Jason’s friend Chad Channing on drums with Dave Grohl — became the biggest band in the world. That record he never got paid back for, “Bleach,” eventually sold 2.1 million copies. “Nevermind” sold nearly 30 million copies worldwide and changed the course of rock. Everman, meanwhile, was left behind with no idea what to do next.
我不知道接下来的一年他是怎么挺过来的。艾弗曼家乡的朋友本·谢泼德接替了他在“声音花园”的位子，新专辑卖出了双白金的销量。当然，“涅槃”——戴夫·格罗尔(Dave Grohl)取代了詹森的朋友查德·钱宁成为他们的鼓手——成了全世界最流行的乐队。那张没还他钱的专辑《漂白》卖出了210万张。《别在意》(Nevermind)在全世界卖出了将近3000万张，改变了摇滚乐的进程。与此同时，被抛弃的艾弗曼却无所事事，不知自己接下来该做什么。
For the first month, he just went fetal. “It was a huge blow,” he admitted to me quietly. “I had no warning. The only good thing about it was it made me leave the Pacific Northwest. I would never have done that otherwise.” He moved to New York and got a job working for a while in the Caroline Records warehouse, a long way from the tour bus.
被开除后第一个月，他整个人浑浑噩噩。“这是个巨大的打击，”他平静地对我承认，“我猝不及防。唯一的好处是，这迫使我离开了西北部。否则我永远不会离开那里。”他搬到纽约，在卡洛琳唱片公司(Caroline Records)的仓库找了份工作干了一阵，这工作与巡演大巴可谓天差地别。
Jason played with other bands, eventually joining one called Mindfunk. He actually had success with it, moving with the band to San Francisco, but something was still not right. Then in the midst of all the confusion in his life, he came to the realization that he had to make a change. He knew he didn’t just want to be a guy in his 15th band, the guy talking about his time in Nirvana and Soundgarden 20 years later. He wanted to do something, he said, something impossible. “I was in the cool bands,” he told me in the cabin. “I was psyched to do the most uncool thing you could possibly do.”
詹森也和其他乐队合作，最后加入了一个叫做“心灵放克”(Mindfunk)的乐队。其实他在这个乐队里成功立足了，和他们一起去了旧金山，但还是有什么东西不对。回想生命中的种种困惑，他明白自己必须做出改变。他明白自己不想在20年后加入自己第15个乐队，还聊着当年在“涅槃”和“声音花园”里的事，他不想成为这种人。他说，他想做点什么不可能的事。“我曾经在很酷的乐队里呆过，”在小木屋里，他对我说，“而我跃跃欲试，想去做一件可能是最不酷的事情。”
So in 1993, while living in a group house in San Francisco with the guys in Mindfunk, Everman slipped out to meet with recruiters; the Army offered a fast track to becoming a Ranger and perhaps eventually to the Special Forces. He told me he always had an interest in it. His stepfather was in the Navy; both grandfathers were ex-military. Most of the people he grew up with scoffed at that world, which was part of the appeal to him. Novoselic remembered something Everman said way back in the Olympia days. “He was just pondering. He asked me, ‘Do you ever think about what it’d be like to be in the military and go through that experience?’ And I was just like . . . no.”
于是，在1993年，当时还在旧金山与“心灵放克”的队友们合住的艾弗曼溜出去见了征兵人员；军队提供一条成为游骑兵(Ranger)的快速途径，最后可能还能加入特种部队。他告诉我，他对这个一直都很感兴趣。他的继父当过海军；祖父和外祖父都当过兵。而在他成长期间，所有人都在嘲笑那个军队世界，这反而令他对军队产生兴趣。诺沃塞利克记得在奥林匹亚有过这样一件事。“他在思考。他问我：‘你有没有想过加入军队，获得那样一种体验？’我只好说……没有。”
Everman started waking up early while his bandmates slept in; he went biking, swimming, got in shape. One day, with zero warning, he resigned. He put all of his stuff in storage. He took a flight to New York and went to an Army recruiting office in Manhattan. A couple of weeks later he was on a flight to Georgia. “Was I nervous?” he asked. “I was a little nervous. But I knew.”
艾弗曼开始在队友们还在睡觉时就早起锻炼；靠骑车和游泳塑身。一天，他没打招呼就离开了他们。他拿走了自己的所有东西，坐飞机来到纽约，走进曼哈顿的征兵办公室。几周后，他已置身飞往佐治亚的飞机上。“我那时紧张吗？”他说，“我有点紧张，但我心里明白。”
When he arrived for basic training at Fort Benning, his hair was cut, his nose ring was removed; he was as anonymous as every other recruit. At 26, he wasn’t an old-timer, but he was close to it. Training had been going on for about a month when Cobain committed suicide and Everman’s rock past was discovered, which gave more ammunition to the drill sergeants. There was a lot of “O.K., rock star, give me 50.” Everman insists he didn’t expect anything else.
当他来到贝宁堡做基础训练时，已经剪去头发，摘掉鼻环，和其他新兵一样籍籍无名。26岁的他并不算入伍太晚，但也差不多了。训练过去了大约一个月左右，科本自杀身亡，艾弗曼的摇滚史被发现了，为教官们提供了不少猛料。他们经常说：“嘿，摇滚明星，再做50个。”艾弗曼坚持说这一切自己都预料到了。
A fellow soldier named Sean Walker told me that Ranger instructors begin by asking recruits to quit now to save time. “You had to pass a 12-mile road march in three hours or less,” Walker said, “run 5 miles in 40 minutes or less, complete the combat-swimmers test, as well as other evils the cadre decided to throw at you.” Half the recruits quit. But Everman refused to let himself be left behind this time. He completed every last requirement.
和艾弗曼一同受训的士兵西恩·沃尔克告诉我，游骑兵训练一开始都是以让新兵放弃为目的，好节省时间。“你得在3个小时以内完成12英里的行军，”沃尔克说，“40分钟内跑完5英里，通过特种战斗游泳(combat-swimmers)测试，还有那些魔鬼头头们决定用来考验你的东西。”半数新兵放弃了。但是这一次艾弗曼拒绝再次被抛弃。他通过了所有考验。
After Fort Benning, Everman was assigned to Fort Lewis, in Washington, 60 miles from where he grew up in Poulsbo. Everman’s Army buddies I spoke with said he never mentioned his past to anyone there either. Still, word got out. Walker thought the rumor of Everman being a rock star was a joke until someone showed him a VHS tape. “I had to watch the segment a few times just to make sure I was seeing correctly,” Walker said in an e-mail. “But it was Jason Everman playing some huge concert. I was wondering what the hell Jason was doing joining the Army when he was living the life most people could only dream about.” And he was doing it all less than an hour from Seattle’s Memorial Stadium, where Soundgarden was now playing.
贝宁堡的训练结束后，艾弗曼被分配到华盛顿州的刘易斯堡，离他从小长大的普尔斯波只有60英里之遥。我采访过的艾弗曼的军中战友都说，他在刘易斯堡时也从不提起自己的过去。但消息还是不胫而走。沃尔克本来觉得，关于艾弗曼曾经当过摇滚明星的谣言不过是个笑话，直到后来有人给他看一盘VHS录像。“我把那个片段回放了好几次，确认自己没看错，”沃尔克在接受邮件采访时写道，“但那的确是詹森·艾弗曼在什么大型演唱会上演奏。我奇怪詹森到底为什么要参军，他过的可是大多数人梦寐以求的生活啊。”他这样做的时候距离西雅图纪念体育馆已经只有一步之遥了，“声音花园”现在正在那儿演出呢。
During one of his first visits into Seattle, Everman happened to spot a familiar beat-up red van — it belonged to Kim Thayil from Soundgarden. Thayil saw Everman’s car tailing him, heard the honking but didn’t know who it was. “I wasn’t going to go home, that’s for sure,” Thayil said. He finally pulled over, and a guy with short hair got out of the car, saying, “Hey, Kim!” Thayil took him at first to be a superfan. “And then I heard: ‘It’s me. Jason.’ ” He was floored. They hung out, had a few beers. At night’s end, Everman went back to the base.
在刘易斯堡期间，艾弗曼最初几次去西雅图的时候，有一次正好看见一辆熟悉的、破破烂烂的红色面包车——它属于“声音花园”的基姆·塔伊尔。塔伊尔看见艾弗曼的车子尾随着自己，听见他按喇叭，但不知道那是谁。“我当时肯定不是要回家，”塔伊尔说，“最后我把车停在路边，一个短发小伙从车里走下来，说：‘嘿，基姆！’”塔伊尔一开始还以为是个超级歌迷。“然后我听他说：‘是我呀，我是詹森。’”他有些不知所措。他们去喝了几瓶啤酒。天快亮时，艾弗曼回了基地。
Everman’s first action as a Ranger was somewhere in Latin America, he said, an operation in the covert war on drugs, about which he declined to give details. Despite all the training, nobody knows for sure how he’ll react to the stress of combat. “The bond of locking shields with each other, working together to defeat a common enemy,” Everman told me in his typically formal manner, “it’s a heightened state.” It was kind of like being in a band onstage, he said, only more so. “Everyone looks around and you know — you know — something cool is going on here. I knew this was it. This is living.”
艾弗曼说，他成为游骑兵后第一次执行任务是在南美洲，是打击贩毒的秘密战争中的一次行动，他拒绝透露该行动的更多细节。尽管受了那么多训练，但没有人知道自己面对战斗的压力会有什么样的反应。“那是一种并肩作战，同仇敌忾的感觉，”艾弗曼用他典型的、非常正式的口吻对我说，“是一种升华了的状态。”他说，这有点像乐队在舞台上的感觉，只是更加强烈。“所有人环顾四周，心里清楚——心里很清楚——这儿有种很酷的东西存在着。我知道是这样。这就是活着的感觉。”
He served out his first enlistment as a Ranger. “But I felt like I wasn’t finished with something.” He still wanted to make Special Forces, which to Everman was the ultimate achievement. It’s a different world. They operate as a group of equals. They call one another by their first names. They engage in a wider spectrum of operations than less-elite units.
他的第一个服役期都是在做游骑兵。“但是我觉得自己还有事情没做完，”他还想去特种部队，觉得那是最高成就。那里完全是另一个世界：能力相当的人组成小组行动；他们用彼此的名字而不是姓氏亲切地称呼对方；他们是精英，执行任务的范围更广。
On Sept. 11, 2001, Everman was starting the last phase of Special Forces training. It was the first day of language school, and he was watching CNN in the common room with some buddies. “I saw the video of the plane impacting the tower and kind of innately knew we were going to war,” he said. “I don’t believe in fate or destiny, but I did feel a strange sense of kismet, which was probably more of just the right place at the right time. I guess I knew it was on, and I hoped that I would be prepared when it was time to go.”
2001年9月11日，艾弗曼进入了特种兵训练的最后阶段。那是他第一天上语言学校。他在一座普通的屋子里和几个同学一起看着电视中CNN的报道。“我看了飞机撞上双子塔的录像，内心清楚我们要开战了，”他说。“我不相信命运或者宿命，但我确实有一种奇异的感觉，仿佛有上天注定，时间和地点都正好。我想我知道战争已经开始酝酿，我希望到它开始的时候自己已经准备好了。”
He told me about riding horseback with the Pashtun, helicoptering in for midnight raids, sitting at a base for days at a time with absolutely nothing to do. Everman saw Soviet tanks rusting in the Panjshir Valley. He smelled the poppy fields outside of Kandahar. He encountered suicide bombers. Yet he always made a point to say fighting often isn’t what you think. “It’s not like the movies,” he stressed. “It’s slow, deliberate.”
他告诉我，自己曾和普什图人一起骑马，坐在直升机里为午夜袭击做准备，也曾呆在基地里一连好几天无所事事。艾弗曼在潘杰希尔峡谷见到过生锈的苏军坦克，在坎大哈城外闻到过罂粟花田的气息。他还遭遇过人体自杀炸弹。但他总是指出，战斗通常和人们想象得不一样。“和电影不一样，”他强调，“非常慢，非常慎重。”
Between Afghanistan deployments, Everman went to Iraq, and that, at times, was like a movie. He was in the front row of one of the biggest conventional military operations since World War II, with helicopters hovering on either side of his vehicle, “the full might of the U.S. forces,” as he puts it, in the column behind him. As he shot grenades from a Humvee, he recounted, “Iraqi tanks were exploding all around, turrets shooting off into the desert. I saw stuff I never thought I’d see. Buildings blew up in front of me, dude.” At one point, he came across a pile of Iraqi Army boots, hundreds of them. “Guys would just strip off everything they had on that said they were army and split.”
在阿富汗的几次部署间隙，艾弗曼去了伊拉克，那里有时候倒像是电影。他置身“二战”以来最大的常规军事行动最前沿，他所在的车辆两侧都有直升机低低飞过。他回忆自己从悍马车里往外投手榴弹时的情形，“伊拉克坦克在我们四周开火，炮弹打进沙子。我看到了从未见过的景象。建筑物就在我面前爆炸，伙计。”还有一次，他看到一大堆伊拉克军靴，上百只靴子就那么堆在那里。“他们会脱下身上所有表明军人身份的东西，然后分散撤退。”
I wanted to know every detail, but he wouldn’t say much. Or couldn’t. There’s a code among Special Forces: they don’t talk about what they do. I actually think this was part of the appeal for Everman. After having such a public rock face, he went for something that wasn’t just anonymous; it was classified. Mimi once met a couple of Special Forces guys who idolized Jason. “They didn’t approach like the usual fanboys who asked, ‘Your brother was in Nirvana?’ ” she said. “No, they came to me like: ‘Jason Everman is your brother?’ ” One turned to the other and said, “Dude, do you know what that guy’s done?”
我想知道所有细节，但他不愿再多说，或者是不能再多说。特种部队有这样一条规矩：他们不能说自己干的事。我觉得这也是吸引艾弗曼的东西。作为摇滚乐手抛头露面之后，他想追求默默无闻，甚至是保密的生活。咪咪曾经遇到过两个崇拜詹森的特种兵。“他们不像普通歌迷那样来问我：‘听说你哥哥在‘涅槃’呆过？’”她说，“他们是这么问的：‘詹森·艾弗曼是你的哥哥吗？’” 然后一个人转身对另一个人说：“伙计，你知道那家伙都干过什么吗？”
In the war, Everman seemed to have found his place. The cloud didn’t go anywhere; it just didn’t matter anymore. As one of his Special Forces colleagues (who is still on active duty and requested that his name not be published) told me: “He would get moody sometimes, but it didn’t interfere with the task at hand. I would rather work with somebody who is quiet than ran their suck constantly.” In Everman’s cabin, I saw medal after medal, including the coveted Combat Infantryman Badge. “Sounds kind of Boy Scouty,” he said. “But it’s actually something cool.” I saw photos of Everman in fatigues on a warship (“an antipiracy operation in Asia”). A shot of Everman with Donald Rumsfeld. Another with Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal. And that’s when it hit me. Jason Everman had finally become a rock star.
在战争中，艾弗曼似乎找到了自己的位置。那团阴云并没消散，但却已经无关紧要。他在特种部队的一个战友（此时仍在服役，所以要求不要公布姓名）告诉我：“他有时候会有些情绪化，但不会影响到手头的任务。我宁愿和安静的人共事，也不愿经常帮糟糕的队友收拾残局。”在艾弗曼的小屋里，我发现了许多勋章，包括令人艳羡的作战步兵徽章(Combat Infantryman Badge)。“有点像童子军，”他说，“不过这真的很酷。”我看到艾弗曼穿着训练服在军舰上的照片（是去亚洲执行打击海盗任务）。另外还有艾弗曼和唐纳德·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald Rumsfeld)的合影，以及和斯坦利·A·麦克里斯特尔上将(Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal)的合影。我就是从那一刻起真的震惊了。詹森·艾弗曼终于成了大明星。
“The way I look at it, life is meaningless,” Everman said the last time I saw him. “The meaningfulness is what you impart to it.” The words sounded an awful lot like those of a philosophy undergrad, which is the latest iteration of Jason Everman’s life. He was talking about Jack Kerouac; he had to reread “On the Road” for one of his classes. We were standing in front of Butler Library on the Columbia University campus in New York. Everman looked rested and content, a backpack over his shoulder. After he left the military in 2006, he used the G.I. Bill to apply to two places: Seattle University and Columbia University. He says he threw Columbia in almost as a joke. General McChrystal wrote a letter of recommendation. To Everman’s shock, he was accepted. “It’s almost like a dare that went too far — and it keeps going.” At 45, he just received his bachelor’s degree in philosophy.
“在我看来，人生没有意义，”我最后一次见到艾弗曼的时候，他说。“意义都是你自己赋予的。”这番话听上去很像哲学系大学生说的，而这也正是詹森·艾弗曼人生中的最新一轮循环。他说的是杰克·凯鲁亚克(Jack Kerouac)，在某门课程中，他得重读《在路上》(On the Road)。我们站在纽约哥伦比亚大学巴特勒图书馆的门前，艾弗曼肩上背着背包，看上去放松而满足。2006年退伍后，他用退伍士兵援助基金申请了两个学校：西雅图大学和哥伦比亚大学。他说自己当初申请哥伦比亚几乎只是开个玩笑，麦克里斯特尔上将为他写了推荐信。让艾弗曼震惊的是，他居然被录取了。“有点像大冒险玩得太过火了——然后事情就这么发展下去。”45岁的他刚刚获得自己的哲学系学士学位。
As we walked past all the oblivious college students, their whole lives ahead of them, I thought about how astonishingly few people do what Everman did. What happened to him was so brutal, seeing success pass him by — twice. But he didn’t let that misfortune define him. Of all the guys I knew through my years in rock, a precious few made it huge. Good for them. Most never came close. Some never managed to get past the failure of the dream, but it seems pretty clear that Everman did. When I told his former bandmates what he’d been up to, they all seemed genuinely thrilled with what he did with his life — and surely a little relieved.
我们走过一群群显然是学生的人们，他们的整个人生都展现在面前，我在想，几乎没有人能做到艾弗曼做过的事情。发生在他身上的事如此残酷——眼睁睁地看着成功与他擦身而过——而且还是两次。但他没有让噩运限定自己。当然，在我的摇滚生涯中遇到的所有人里，只有少数人获得巨大的成功。这对他们来说很好。大多数人从未接近成功边缘，有些人从未从梦想失败的阴影中走出来，但艾弗曼显然确实做到了。当我采访他的前乐队队友们时，他们似乎全都真诚地对他人生中取得的成就感到十分惊喜——当然，肯定也稍微松了一口气。
As we made our way along what Columbia calls College Walk, I asked Everman what it was like to be a student after all he had been through. Everman smiled dryly. “It’s anonymous. Just the way I like it.” I suggested that his unique résumé might make him just about the coolest college professor of all time. “No way, man,” he said, shaking his head. “I don’t have the patience. I’ll probably just be a bartender somewhere.”
我们走在哥伦比亚校园里的“大学路”上，我问艾弗曼，经历了那么多之后，再度成为学生是一种什么样的感觉。艾弗曼干笑着说：“就是默默无闻的，我就喜欢这样。”我说他那独特的经历可能会让他成为最酷的大学教授。“绝不，伙计，”他摇头，“我没这个耐心。我将来也许会去什么地方当酒保呢。”