Verdicts Overturned
判决被推翻
While supporters of Farkhunda celebrated the trial-court verdict, defense lawyers rallied on behalf of their clients. But unlike the televised trial, the appeal in late June took place behind closed doors, according to lawyers involved in the case and others who managed to slip into the hearing.
在法尔昆达的支持者们庆祝法庭审判的判决同时，辩护律师们在代表自己的客户举行抗议集会。不过，据参与此案的律师们或其他混进听证会的人说，与电视转播了审判不同，去年6月底进行的上诉是秘密进行的。
That secrecy is against Afghan rules of criminal procedure — although there is a loophole that allows judges not to announce a proceeding to the news media as long as no one is stopped from attending. The defendants and their lawyers were called in for discussions with the judges in groups, depending on their sentences.
这种方式与阿富汗的刑事诉讼规则相违背——虽然这一规则有个漏洞：只要无人被阻止出席，法官们就可以不向媒体公布某场诉讼。被告和他们的律师接受传唤，根据判决，与法官们分组讨论。
Lawyers for those condemned to death or long prison sentences pointed out that no one had bothered to determine when Farkhunda died. Under Afghan law, the penalty is far lighter for desecrating a dead body than it is for murder, so Mr. Sofizada, Mr. Khorami and other lawyers drilled down on that point.
那些代理被判死刑或长期监禁的被告的律师们指出，没人愿意费心确定法尔昆达的死亡时间。依照阿富汗法律，亵渎尸体的刑责比谋杀要轻得多，所以索菲扎达和科拉米等律师抓住这一点不放。
“Who is the guy who hit the first blow? Who is the one whose blow killed her?” asked Mr. Sofizada, who represented a shopkeeper named Mohmand. “If it’s violence, who is responsible for this violence? The guy who started the episode and encouraged the people to hit her? The guy chanting slogans who encouraged the people? Was it a blow from a stick that killed her? A stone? Was it that she was burned, or was it the car running over her?”
“第一个动手的是谁？导致她毙命的是谁？”索菲扎达问道。他代理的是一个名叫穆赫曼德(Mohmand)的店主。“如果这是暴力行为，那么谁应该对它负责？是那个引发这一事件、鼓励人们打她的人吗？还是那个喊着口号煽动的人？她是被棍子打死的还是被石头砸死的？是被烧死的还是被车压死的？”
Mr. Yaqoub said he had only desecrated a corpse. “I knew she was dead because she was not moving,” he said. Asked if Farkhunda might have been unconscious, but not dead, he did not reply.
雅格布说，他只是亵渎尸体。“当时我知道她已经死了，因为她不动了，”他说。当被问及法尔昆达当时可能只是昏迷并没有死时，他无言以对。
Mr. Yaqoub’s lawyer, Mr. Khorami, used his session with the appellate judges to try to convince them that Mr. Yaqoub had been wrongly tried as an adult. He produced a tazkera, the Afghan identity document, saying that his client had been 17 at the time of the killing. Although the trial-court judge believed this document had been forged, the appeals panel deemed Mr. Yaqoub underage and commuted his death sentence to 10 years in prison.
雅格布的律师科拉米在与上诉法官的会谈中努力说服他们，雅格布被误判为成年人。他出示了一份身份文件，称谋杀发生时他的客户只有17岁。虽然审判法庭的法官认为这份文件是伪造的，但上诉委员会认定雅格布未成年，把他的死刑减为10年监禁。
The argument that there was no evidence on who had struck the blow that killed Farkhunda made sense to both the appellate court and the Supreme Court, according to people close to the courts. “It’s very difficult to determine responsibility if you don’t know what killed her,” a person close to the Supreme Court said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because court employees are not allowed to talk to the news media.
据与法院关系密切的人说，上诉法庭和最高法院都认为，没有证据能证明致命一击到底来自谁。“如果无法确定死因，就很难确定责任，”一个与最高法院关系密切的人士说。此人要求匿名，因为在法院工作的人不允许对媒体谈论此事。
So the judges commuted the other three death sentences to 20-year prison terms.
所以，法官们把其他三人的死刑改判为20年监禁。
They also reviewed the evidence that the fortuneteller was not at the shrine when Farkhunda was killed and ruled that he was not guilty because he had not been present. They exonerated a ninth police officer, so that in the end, only 10 were disciplined at all.
他们还核查了一个事实：法尔昆达遇害时，那名占卜者不在清真寺。因为他不在现场，所以被判无罪。他们免除了第9名警察的罪责，所以到最后，只有10名警察受到处罚。
When the appeals court’s ruling became public in July, Farkhunda’s family and many women’s groups were stunned to find out that they had been given no chance to make their case. Farkhunda’s brother Mujibullah said the new verdict was a travesty.
去年7月，上诉法院公布判决结果时，法尔昆达的家人和很多妇女组织震惊地发现自己没有得到申诉的机会。法尔昆达的哥哥穆吉巴拉说，新判决是对法律的嘲弄。
“You saw that boy who hit her with that big stone, and the court said he’s underage,” he said. “Even if he is underage, he knows how to hit, but he doesn’t know how to answer for his actions.”
“你看见那个男孩用大石头砸她，而法院说他未成年，”他说，“就算他未成年，他知道怎么打人，却不知道怎么承担责任。”
Female lawyers who followed the case said the verdict showed Afghanistan’s cultural bias against women. “There was some discrimination against women,” said Najla Raheel, a young lawyer who takes cases on behalf of women, even when they cannot pay, and who was appointed by Mr. Ghani to lead the team representing Farkhunda’s family in the appeal to the Supreme Court. “Some government officials didn’t want 49 men punished for the death of one woman.”
关注此案的女性律师们说，判决表明，阿富汗的社会文化歧视女性。“对女性存在歧视，”年轻律师娜杰拉·拉希勒(Najla Raheel)说。她代理女性案件，即使有些女人付不起钱。加尼先生任命她领导一个团队，代表法尔昆达的家人上诉到最高法院。“有些政府官员不想让49个男人因为杀害一个女人而受到惩罚。”
Soon after the new verdict, Farkhunda’s family asked Mr. Ghani’s wife, Rula, who had taken an interest in the case, to help them get temporary visas to leave the country. They felt the appeals verdict signaled that the public did not support them.
新判决公布之后不久，法尔昆达的家人请求加尼的妻子鲁拉(Rula)帮他们得到临时签证，以便离开该国——鲁拉曾对此案表示关注。他们感觉，上诉法院的判决表明，公众不支持他们。
In the meantime, the legal team appointed by Mr. Ghani decided there had been so many flaws in the case that the only fair course was to ask the Supreme Court to order a retrial, according to Ms. Raheel and Mr. Ayoubi, who had also joined the legal team representing Farkhunda’s family.
据拉希勒和阿尤比（他也加入了代理法尔昆达家人的法律团队）说，与此同时，加尼任命的法律团队认为，此案存在很多疑点，唯一公正的解决办法就是请求最高法院下令重审。
The Road Ahead
前方的路
The request for a retrial was made in August, and the Supreme Court has not yet announced its decision. The court, which has great leeway to increase, reduce or throw out penalties, often simply confirms appellate decisions or sends them back to the appeals court for review. None of the lawyers interviewed for this article could recall a time when the court had sent a case back for a complete retrial.
重审的要求是在8月作出的，最高法庭尚未宣布自己的决定。最高法庭拥有极大的余地，可以增加、减少刑罚或不予受理案件，通常只是维持原判，或发回下级法院复核。本文中所采访的律师中，没有人记得最高法庭曾经将哪起案子发回彻底重审。
Farkhunda’s family is beginning to worry that there will never be a decision and that she is being forgotten.
法尔昆达的家人开始担心最终判决永远不会做出，而她也开始被人们遗忘。
Five miles north of the Shah-Do Shamshira shrine, a sprawling graveyard covers a slope in Chaikhana, a northern neighborhood of Kabul. The rocky earth is brown and gray. The graves are gray, too, modest piles of small stones fenced off from one another. The ground is littered with empty water bottles and small pink or blue plastic bags blowing in the late autumn wind.
双剑王清真寺以北8公里处，在喀布尔北部的柴卡纳，山坡上是一大片坟场。棕灰色的土地布满乱石。坟茔也是灰色的，彼此之间用小小的石堆风格开来。地上到处扔着空水瓶，粉色和蓝色的小塑料袋在晚秋的风中四散飘荡。
In the middle of the cemetery, far from the main road, lies Farkhunda Malikzada. Her grave is large but half finished. The coffin has been sunk into a concrete slab facing west, toward Mecca. At each of the four corners is an unfinished concrete column with metal spikes sticking out. A flag with her ghostly pale face, wrapped in a black hijab so not a hair is visible, hangs over the grave. It is hard even to make out her features. She is fading into memory.
法尔昆达·马利克扎达的墓在墓地中间远离大路的地方。她的坟墓很大，但只完工了一半。棺材被嵌入一块水泥厚板之中，面向着西方，那是麦加的方向。坟墓的四角各有一根未修完的水泥柱子，钢筋露在外面。坟墓上挂着一面旗帜，上面是她苍白的面孔，裹在黑色面纱之中，没有一根头发露出来。从上面很难看出她的特征，她已经开始在记忆中消失。
On a recent Friday, the only people near the grave were four neighborhood children who use the cemetery as a playground.
前不久的一个星期五，墓地里只有附近四家住户的孩子在这里玩耍。
The children all knew her name. Ishaq, 6, volunteered: “Her name is Farkhunda. She burned the Quran, so she was punished and she was lynched.”
孩子们都知道她的名字。六岁的伊沙克(Ishaq)主动说：“她叫法尔昆达。她烧了《古兰经》，所以她受到了惩罚，被私刑处死了。”