Investigation and Trial
调查与审判
The case posed two sometimes conflicting challenges for the Afghan legal system: satisfying public pressure for retribution while making sure the trial was perceived as fair.
这桩案子显示出阿富汗的司法系统存在两个时而冲突的挑战：既要满足公众严惩的压力，同时又要保证审判的公平。
Mr. Ghani himself pressed for action, declaring, “We are not going to allow mob justice.” Ms. Alam played Farkhunda in a re-enactment of the killing held just before the trial began.
加尼先生敦促采取行动，他宣布，“我们不容许暴民的正义。”在审判开始之前，阿拉姆女士在重演谋杀场景的演出中扮演法尔昆达。
The circle of those culpable was wide. But the degrees of responsibility varied considerably and ultimately confounded the prosecutors, who charged only 30 civilians, 28 of them with the same crimes: murder and burning. Investigators believed that the fortuneteller, whose business was threatened, had incited the custodian of the shrine to accuse Farkhunda. The fortuneteller himself was not present the day she was killed, yet he was charged with her murder.
应受惩罚者的范围很大，但责任的程度相当不同，令公诉者们非常困惑。他们最后只起诉了30名公民，其中28人是同样的罪名：谋杀和纵火。调查者们认为，那名占卜者的生意受到了威胁，于是煽动看门人指责法尔昆达。这名占卜者本人在她被杀之时没有出现，但他仍然被指控参与杀害她。
Two or three police officers seem to have tried to help Farkhunda, but others who arrived later appeared to be overwhelmed by the mob. Officers called on to send help claimed that reinforcements had not arrived because the police pickup trucks had no fuel and because their radios had not been working. The mob was huge, and it was never established at what point in the beating, dragging and burning Farkhunda actually died.
两三个警察似乎试图帮助法尔昆达，但其他后来者显然被暴徒的气焰压倒。被叫来帮助的警察们说，支援者们尚未赶到，因为警察的皮卡没有燃料了，而且他们的无线系统也坏了。暴徒人数众多，而且法尔昆达遭到了殴打、拖拽和焚烧，她的确切死亡时间也一直未能确定。
The police, acting on the orders of the Interior Affairs Ministry, ultimately detained more than 50 people, 49 of whom — including 19 police officers — stood trial.
听命于内务部的警方最终逮捕了50多人，其中49名——包括19个警察——接受了审判。
Yet some who appeared guilty based on video evidence avoided capture or charges. They included the driver of the car that ran over Farkhunda and a man wearing a sweatshirt with the number six on it, whom the videos showed repeatedly jumping on her body. Also involved was a well-known local figure, Habib Deh Afghanan, who trained as a wrestler and was at the shrine during the beating, according to witnesses.
然而，还有一些通过视频证据看来显然有罪的人逃脱了逮捕和审判。其中包括那辆碾过法尔昆达身体车辆的司机，以及一个身穿有“6”字样卫衣的男人，录像表明他一再在她身体上踩跳。还有一个著名的本地人物哈比卜·代赫·阿富汗恩(Habib Deh Afghanan)，他接受过摔跤手训练，证人说，殴打期间他就在那处神圣场所内。
A senior police investigator in Kabul acknowledged that the police had failed to capture all of those responsible. He estimated that three or four key suspects had fled Kabul; it was unclear if they had political connections and therefore had been tipped off, or if some had been detained and then released. None of the provincial police forces had the will or the clout to arrest them, said the investigator, who asked not to be identified because the appeals process is still underway. The case became politicized, he added, with intense pressure to make arrests to show that the government was taking a stand.
喀布尔的一位资深警探承认，警方未能拘捕所有责任者。他估计，有三四个关键嫌犯逃出了喀布尔；警方是否有熟人向他们透露了消息，抑或有人被关押之后又被释放，目前尚不清楚。地方警察力量没有意愿，也没有能力拘捕他们，这位警探说道；他要求匿名，因为上诉过程还在进行之中。他补充说，这桩案件变得政治化，政府通过施加严重压力，要求逮捕嫌犯，已经表明了自己的立场。
“Everyone tried to use this case for their political leverage,” the investigator said. “Some used it as a way to attack the police chief, some to attack the government; others used it, under the guise of ‘civil society,’ to undermine the role of spiritual leaders or Islamic scholars. So all of that made our work difficult.”
“所有人都在利用这个案子，为自己谋求政治利益，”这位警探说。“有人利用这个案子攻击警察局长，有人利用它来攻击政府；有人在‘公民社会’的幌子下，利用这个案子损害精神领袖和伊斯兰学者扮演的角色。这一切都让我们的工作变得困难。”
If some of the guilty were spared, the legal system also appeared to entrap some of the innocent. Some of those arrested were later shown not to have even been physically present during the killing. And Afghan defense lawyers described multiple failures in protecting the rights of the accused, including their right to counsel.
如果说有些罪行得以逃脱处罚，那么司法系统显然也拘捕了若干无辜者。有些被逮捕的人后来被证明根本没出现在杀戮现场。阿富汗辩护律师们说，在保护被告的利益方面出了很多问题，包括他们进行商议的权利也受到了侵害。
Zaki Ayoubi, an idealistic lawyer who had worked for a Western rule-of-law organization, had great hopes for changing the legal system. He began to worry about the lack of attention to appointing counsel for the accused. He turned to friends from university and from Western legal workshops and began to recruit them.
扎基·阿尤比(Zaki Ayoubi)是个理想主义的律师，为一个西方法治机构工作，曾对改变司法系统抱着极大的希望。他担心有关方面不够重视为被告指派辩护律师，于是向大学里的朋友们，乃至西方的法律工作室寻求帮助，并且开始雇用他们。
The American notion of defense lawyers does not exist in Afghanistan, where defense lawyers traditionally played the role of middleman between the accused and the prosecutors and judge. Until as recently as 2008, the few pro bono defense lawyers worked directly for the Ministry of Justice, which did little to give defendants confidence in them.
在阿富汗不存在美国意义上的辩护律师，传统上，这里的辩护律师是扮演被告、原告与法官之间的中间人角色。直到2008年，提供无偿专业服务的辩护律师寥寥无几，他们直接为司法部工作，而司法部也并没做多少工作令被告对他们产生信心。
Gradually, that is beginning to change, in part because of one of the more successful parts of the American rule-of-law programs, which helped create a bench of defense lawyers within the Justice Ministry and outside of it.
变化渐渐开始产生，部分是因为美国法治援助计划中开展得比较成功的部分，帮助阿富汗在司法部内外培养出一批辩护律师。
Mr. Ayoubi recognized early that even if he could find defense lawyers, the trial would be heavily politicized. Mr. Ghani continued speaking out. The country’s chief executive, Abdullah Abdullah, had visited Farkhunda’s family to offer his condolences. These moves clearly signaled to the judiciary that it needed to find people guilty.
阿尤比先生早就意识到，就算他能找到辩护律师，审判也仍然会非常政治化。加尼先生不停表态。该国首席执行官阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉(Abdullah Abdullah)曾经拜访过法尔昆达的家，表示慰问。这些举动显然对执法部分发出信号，示意它必须找出犯罪者。
The judge appointed to preside over the trial was Safiullah Mujadidi, a man who could be trusted to get the results leaders wanted. He was well known for his 2014 ruling in the case of seven men accused of raping four married women in a rural area of Kabul Province. In that case, Hamid Karzai, then the president, asserted publicly even before the trial that he would approve a death sentence. The judge sentenced five of the men to death even though they testified that they had confessed under torture. The men were quickly executed.
被指派主持审判的法官是萨菲乌拉·穆贾迪迪(Safiullah Mujadidi)，上级信任他可以得出领袖们想要的结果。他因2014年主持了喀布尔省一处乡村地区七名男子被控强奸四名已婚妇女案件的审判而出名。在那桩案子里，当时的总统哈米德·卡尔扎伊(Hamid Karzai)在审判之前便公开声称，他会批准死刑。穆贾迪迪法官判处这五个男人死刑，尽管他们作证说，他们是在刑讯逼供之下才认罪的。死刑很快就执行了。
In Farkhunda’s case, Judge Mujadidi again moved quickly. The prosecutors delivered their completed file to the judges on April 27, and the trial began just five days later. It was not clear whether the judges had even had time to review the more than 4,000 pages of material, according to international and Afghan lawyers who closely followed the case.
在法尔昆达的案件中，穆贾迪迪法官的动作仍然很快。4月27日，公诉人向法官呈交了完整的资料，审判五天后就开始了。密切关注此案的阿富汗律师与国际律师们说，法官们究竟是否有时间研究那4000多页材料，目前尚不清楚。
When the trial opened, fewer than seven of the 49 accused had retained defense lawyers. None of those lawyers were notified of the date or time of the trial, several of them said, and only three or four were present at all during the proceedings. Few, if any, were given access to the documents compiled by the prosecution until the trial started, so they were unable to prepare a defense of their clients, the lawyers said.
审判开始后，49名被告中，只有不到7人拥有辩护律师。律师们中有人说，没有一名被告律师被通知了审判日期或时间，只有三四名被告律师出席了审判。他们还说，审判开始后，能够看到公诉方收集的文件材料的被告律师没几个，所以他们无法为自己的客户准备辩护。
Judge Mujadidi, who has since been appointed as a counselor at the Supreme Court, said in an interview that he had attended training sessions provided by several American-funded rule-of-law programs and a German one.
穆贾迪迪法官之后被最高法院任命为顾问，他在一次采访中说，自己曾经参加过若干美国提供资金的法治培训计划，以及一个德国的培训计划。
In his view, he said, “The decision in the primary court was according to the law, which brought justice.”
他说，在他看来，“初级法院的决定是依法做出的，并且实现了正义。”
He argued that criticisms about the lack of defense counsel and scant time for preparation were motivated by defense lawyers’ greed. “All they think of is their business, not the people and the good of others,” he said. “They even overcharge their clients to make more money.”
他认为，关于缺乏辩护律师，以及辩护律师缺乏准备时间的批评都是源自被告辩护律师们的贪婪。“他们想的只是自己的生意，而不是人民和他人的利益，”他说。“他们甚至向自己的客户索要更多金钱。”
Judge Mujadidi added that every defendant had been asked if he wanted a lawyer. “All of them said they could better defend themselves and they know what to say in court, so there was no need for the defense lawyers,” he said.
穆贾迪迪法官还说，每个被告都被询问过是否想要律师。“他们都说，自己为自己辩护会更好，他们知道在法庭上该说什么，所以不需要辩护律师，”他说。
Abdul Masood Khorami, a lawyer representing Mr. Yaqoub, the eyeglasses shop worker, did not even know the trial had begun until he received a call from Mr. Yaqoub’s father, who was watching the proceedings on television. When Mr. Khorami rushed to the courtroom, he found that the trial was being run as if it were a terrorism case rather than a murder case. Heavily armed guards wearing dark glasses stood behind the judges.
为眼镜店工作人员雅格布辩护的律师阿卜杜勒·马苏德·科拉米(Abdul Masood Khorami)说，自己根本不知道审判已经开始，直到接到雅格布父亲的电话，说他在电视上看到了审判。等科拉米冲到法庭，才发现这个进行中的审判不像谋杀案件，倒像是恐怖主义案件。全副武装的卫兵戴着墨镜，站在法官们身后。
It took most of two days for the prosecutor to finish reading the indictment. Then the three-judge panel took a day to deliberate privately. On the third day, they delivered a verdict.
公诉人读起诉书占用了两天里的大部分时间，之后由三名法官组成的审判席花费一天时间进行非公开的商讨。第三天，他们宣告了判决。
Each defendant or his lawyer was allowed to speak for scarcely five minutes after the prosecutor read the evidence against the defendant. Many of the statements were pushed to the trial’s last day and were unlikely to have been taken into consideration by the judges, who had deliberated the day before and announced the verdict shortly after the defendants finished speaking.
公诉人读完指控被告的证据之后，所有被告或其律师都被给予五分钟的发言时间。很多发言被推到审判的最后一日，很难得到法官的仔细考量，因为他们的商讨已在前一天完成，被告做完发言后不久，他们便宣布了判决。
In any case, few of the defendants were given a chance to speak beyond perfunctory responses to questions, and neither were most of their lawyers. One exception was Mr. Khorami, who had learned about the importance of objections in one of the Western-run rule-of-law courses he had taken. He understood that it was a critical moment under Afghan law as well: Unless an issue is raised in the trial court, it cannot be raised in an appeal. He objected to a statement that his client, Mr. Yaqoub, was an adult, claiming that he could prove he was a minor. Minors are not subject to the death penalty under Afghan law.
不管怎样，所有的被告除了简单地回答提问之外，几乎没有机会讲话，大部分辩护律师也是一样。唯一的例外是科拉米，他在西方主持的法治课程上了解到提出异议的重要性。他知道，按照阿富汗法律，这也是一个关键时刻：如果一个问题未在审判法庭上提出，那么也不得在上诉中提出。他对自己的客户雅格布是成年人提出异议，声称自己可以证明他是未成年人。依照阿富汗法律，未成年人不得判处死刑。
Judge Mujadidi said in an interview that he did not believe Mr. Khorami. “He forged his client’s tazkera to prove him underage,” he said, referring to an Afghan identity document, “but the forensic medicine test and our knowledge said he was a grown adult with a full beard.”
穆贾迪迪法官在接受采访时表示，他不相信科拉米的话。“他伪造了客户的tazkera，以证明他未成年，”他说。tazkera是阿富汗的一种身份文件。“但是法医检验以及我们的知识表明，他是成年人，留着络腮胡。
The judge ignored Mr. Khorami’s objection, and Mr. Yaqoub was one of four sentenced to death. The others were Zainuddin, the shrine’s custodian; Sharaf Baghlani, a onetime employee of the Afghan intelligence service who had boasted on Facebook about his role in Farkhunda’s killing; and Abdul Basheer, a driver.
这位法官不理会科拉米的反对，判处雅格布死刑。另外3个被判死刑的人是：清真寺看门人扎因丁；谢拉夫·巴格拉尼(Sharaf Baghlani)，他曾供职于阿富汗情报部门，他在Facebook上炫耀自己在法尔昆达遇害过程中所起的作用；阿卜杜勒·贝希尔(Abdul Basheer)，他是一名司机。
Eight others were found guilty of major roles in Farkhunda’s murder and were each sentenced to 16 years in prison. The other 18 civilian defendants were found not guilty for lack of sufficient evidence. Of the police officers, eight had their cases thrown out, and 11 were given the lightest penalty possible: They were required to continue working in their assigned police districts for one year and to refrain from traveling.
另有8人因在法尔昆达被害案中起主要作用而被判有罪，获刑16年。还有18名平民被告因证据不足而被判无罪。针对8名警察的指控未予受理；另有11名警察受到最轻微的处罚：他们被要求继续在指定警区工作1年，不得外出旅行。
Legal Changes
阿富汗法律系统的变化
Farkhunda’s case highlighted the limits of the Western rule-of-law effort, but it suggested that there had been at least one significant achievement: Afghans did hold a trial and try to bring people to justice.
法尔昆达案突显出西方法治努力的局限性，但它至少也反映出一项重大进步：阿富汗人的确开始进行审判，并努力依法惩治。
However, a full investigation, a trial perceived as fair and sentences based on evidence would have sent a message that Afghans agreed that a lynch mob was unacceptable; that the police and courts could deliver justice; and that victims, even female victims, had rights.
不过，如果调查够全面，如果审判被认为是公正的，如果定罪是基于证据，那么它本可以传递一个信息：阿富汗人都认为，用私刑处死是不可接受的；警察和法院能伸张正义；受害人，甚至包括女性受害人，拥有各项权利。
In reality, Afghans were divided about the event and what the punishments should be. Some believed that everyone in the crowd that beat Farkhunda and applauded should be punished; others thought only a few should be. Almost no one had faith in the justice system: In surveys, it is the least trusted Afghan institution.
但实际上，阿富汗人对这一事件以及应有的惩罚存在分歧。有些人认为，所有殴打法尔昆达并喝彩的人都应该受到惩罚；也有些人认为只有一小部分人应该受惩罚。几乎没有哪个阿富汗人对本国的司法系统持有信心：在民意调查中，司法系统是阿富汗最不受信任的机构。
In the face of competing pressures and beliefs, rumors and corruption, many of the legal lessons painstakingly taught by Western-funded lawyers were simply ignored.
面对相互冲突的压力和信仰、谣言和腐败，西方资助的律师们煞费苦心教授的法律经验都被弃之不用。
That is all the more surprising because almost everyone involved in the case had some exposure to rule-of-law training.
几乎所有参与此案审理的人都曾接受过法治培训，所以这更是让人吃惊。
Since 2005, according to the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, the United States has spent more than $1 billion to train prosecutors, defense lawyers and judges in such areas as legal procedure, questioning witnesses and computerizing case loads. It has also underwritten programs encouraging transparency, justice for women, changes to detention practices and a stronger informal justice system, which dominates in rural areas.
据阿富汗重建特别检查长(Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction)称，从2005年起，美国共花费逾10亿美元培训检察官、辩护律师和法官，涉及法律程序、询问证人，以及将案情输入电脑等方面。它还资助一些项目，以促进司法透明，对妇女公正，改变拘留程序，加强农村地区的非正式司法系统。
Every defense lawyer interviewed for this article had attended workshops or legal courses funded in part by the State Department’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs; by the United States Agency for International Development; by the Justice Department; by the European Union Police Mission in Afghanistan; or by individual countries such as Canada, Germany or Sweden. Many prosecutors, particularly the elite ones used for Farkhunda’s case, have also attended such programs, according to American and international trainers. Although most of the judges in the case did not respond to requests for interviews, several who were not involved said it was common for judges to have received some Western training.
本文采访的每位辩护律师都参加过以下机构或国家资助的讲习班或法律课程：美国国务院(State Department)的国际毒品和执法事务局(Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs)；美国国际开发署(United States Agency for International Development)；美国司法部(Justice Department)；欧盟驻阿富汗警察团(European Union Police Mission)；或单个国家，比如加拿大、德国或瑞典。据美国等国的培训人员称，很多检察官，尤其是法尔昆达案所用的精英检察官，也参加过此类项目。虽然此案的大部分法官没有回应采访请求，但是几名没有参与审理此案的法官称，法官接受西方国家的培训是很常见的。
But Afghan and Western observers alike said the efforts had been hobbled by ignorance of Afghan norms and, in some cases, by arrogance. Some trainers tutored Afghans about how to pick jurors, but judges decide cases in Afghanistan. Some also brought young lawyers in to teach older Afghans in a society where age is a symbol of authority and knowledge. The intricacies of law were often literally lost in translation from English to Dari, according to two international lawyers who have spent years working in Afghanistan.
不过，阿富汗和西方的观察员们称，由于无视阿富汗的法律传统——有时是由于骄傲自大——这些努力受到制肘。有些培训师指导阿富汗人如何挑选陪审员，但是在阿富汗，决定判决结果的是法官。还有些项目让年轻律师来教年长的阿富汗人，但是在这个国家，年龄是权威和知识的象征。据两位在阿富汗工作多年的国际律师称，法律的复杂性在从英文翻成达里语的过程中往往被简化。
An effort to rewrite the criminal procedure code, rather than translate it so the West could use it as a starting point, captured the occasional absurdities of the process.
还有一件事反映出这些努力偶尔冒出来的荒谬之处，那就是，试图重新编纂刑事诉讼法典，而不是翻译阿富汗已有的刑事诉讼法，以便西方以它为起点进行完善。
“At the time, it was the Italians who were in charge of the rule of law, so they wrote one close to the Italian code,” said a Western lawyer who has spent years in Afghanistan, and who asked not to be named because he is not allowed to speak for his organization. “Why would they write a new one when the Afghans had a criminal procedure code that everyone knew?”
“当时负责法治的是意大利人，所以他们编了一部与意大利法典接近的法典，”一位在阿富汗工作多年的西方律师说。他要求匿名，因为他未被允许代表自己的组织发言。“阿富汗人有自己熟悉的刑事诉讼法典，为什么要写一部新的呢？”
As with efforts to engineer gender equality, many Western ideals ran head-on into entrenched Afghan beliefs. For example, one lawyer recalled a two-week course in representing clients who bring sexual assault cases. But despite Western efforts, few sexual assault cases ever come to trial in Afghanistan because of family pressures and a well-founded fear of reprisal.
为了推动性别平等，很多西方的理想主义者正面对抗根深蒂固的阿富汗信仰。比如，一位律师回忆说，有个为期两周的课程是关于如何代理提起性侵犯诉讼的客户。但是在阿富汗，由于家庭压力以及对报复的合理担心，几乎没有人就性侵提起过诉讼——尽管西方一直在努力推动。
Siavash Rahbari, an American lawyer who speaks fluent Dari and works on rule-of-law issues for the Asia Foundation, said the West fundamentally misunderstood Afghanistan’s needs. The experts thought they were helping to rebuild a system in transition from the Taliban period to a more secular one. Rather, Afghans are still trying to determine what kind of system they want. The Afghan system still draws on Islamic law, as well as its own legal code, which has roots in both the German and Egyptian systems.
美国律师谢瓦沙·拉巴里(Siavash Rahbari)能讲流利的达里语，在亚洲基金会(Asia Foundation)从事法务工作。他说，西方从根本上误解了阿富汗的需求。专家们以为自己是在帮助阿富汗在从塔利班统治过渡到更世俗的社会过程中重新建立起一个制度。但是，阿富汗人仍在努力确定自己想要哪种制度。阿富汗的法律体系依然借鉴伊斯兰教法以及它自己的法典，后者起源于德国和埃及的法律体系。
Defense lawyers and prosecutors study law and political science in college, but almost all judges study theology and Shariah, Islamic law. So when the two meet in a courtroom, they come with completely different frames of reference. Often, they are talking past each other. And judges, who are the backbone of the system, are often resistant to change.
辩护律师和检察官在大学里学习法律和政治学，但几乎所有的法官学的都是神学和伊斯兰教法沙利亚(Shariah)。所以，当他们在法庭上相见时，完全是从不同的参考体系出发的，经常难以沟通。法官是这一体系的支柱，他们往往抵制改变。
Afghan lawyers said the Western designers of the program had not paid enough attention to Afghans’ deference to age and experience.
阿富汗的律师们说，这些项目的西方设计者不够重视阿富汗人对年龄和经验的尊重。
“An American lawyer is standing before a class of Afghan lawyers or judges in their 40s and 50s, and the American lawyer is in his 30s,” said Sayed Mohammad Saeeq Shajjan, an Afghan defense lawyer with a Harvard degree who returned to his country to practice law. “Everyone has his pride, and they say, ‘Why is this young kid teaching me?’ ”
“一名三十多岁的美国律师给一群四五十岁的阿富汗律师或法官授课，”阿富汗辩护律师赛义德·穆罕默德·萨义克·沙加恩(Sayed Mohammad Saeeq Shajjan)说。他在哈佛大学(Harvard)获得学位后，回到祖国从事法律行业。“谁都有自尊，他们会说，‘这个年轻人凭什么教我？’”
Mr. Shajjan also faulted a lack of follow-up.
沙加恩还提到缺乏后续行动的问题。
“At the end of the one-month training, they have a ceremony, get a certificate and photos, but who follows up and sees if they learned something or not?” he asked. “No one is doing that, and it’s a big mistake.”
“在为期一个月的培训结束后，会举行一个仪式，拿证书，拍照，但是谁会跟进调查他们是否真的学以致用？”他问道，“没人跟进，这是个大问题。”
Nor did the Western training reckon with the pervasiveness of corruption, a scourge in the justice system as in so much else in Afghanistan.
西方的培训项目也不考虑如何应对腐败盛行的问题。腐败是阿富汗司法系统乃至整个阿富汗的祸根。
“When your client is a poor guy, you are asked to pay a bribe or he spends 16 years in jail,” said Muhammad Aziz Sofizada, a defense lawyer who represented two clients in Farkhunda’s case, including one who was sentenced to 16 years in prison. “What are you supposed to do? In this country, without spending money, you can’t get anything.”
“你的客户是穷人，你被要求行贿，否则他就得坐牢16年，”辩护律师穆罕默德·阿齐兹·索菲扎达(Muhammad Aziz Sofizada)说。他代理法尔昆达案中的两名被告，其中一人被判入狱16年。“你该怎么办？在这个国家，不行贿，你什么也得不到。”
But the trial also showed that some ideas had taken root, particularly among a growing cadre of young, Western-influenced defense lawyers. Michael J. Fannon, who was the chief of party for the International Development Law Organization and worked in Afghanistan for six years, said that when he left in 2014, the number of defense lawyers had swelled to about 2,000, from 200 in 2008.
不过，这场审判也表明，有些观念已经扎根，尤其是在越来越多的受西方影响的年轻辩护律师中。迈克尔·J·范农(Michael J. Fannon)曾是国际发展法组织(International Development Law Organization)的总负责人，曾在阿富汗工作6年。他说自己2014年离开时，阿富汗的辩护律师数量已从2008年的200名迅速增长到当时的约2000名。
Two defense lawyers said they had drawn on their training in making legal arguments and registering objections to prosecutors, but they were in the minority. And several who were not directly involved in the trial, and so were freer to speak about it, said they believed the system had failed in Farkhunda’s case.
有两名辩护律师称，他们根据自己接受的培训，进行法律论证，并把反对意见传达给检察官，但他们是少数派。几名没有直接参与审判所以可以更自由地谈论此事的律师称，他们认为，整个体系在法尔昆达案中未能合理运转。
“So many didn’t have a defense lawyer — there were almost 50 people tried,” Mr. Shajjan said. “You cannot try such a huge number of defendants, and defendants who don’t have lawyers,” in such a short period. “You need to give the defendants a chance to speak. Everyone was given two minutes.”
沙加恩说，“有那么多被告没有辩护律师——差不多共有50名被告”，“你不能”在这么短的时间里“审讯这么多被告，而且是没有律师的被告”，“你需要给被告讲话的机会。每个人只给了2分钟”。
Human rights lawyers also argued that the legal system needed to send a clear signal that it is unacceptable to stand by and watch as a mob beats someone to death. “All those watching her being killed should have been given a sentence,” said Shamsullah Ahmadzai, the head of the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission office for the Kabul region. “When someone is being killed, it is not a play. It is not a movie.”
人权律师们还表示，法律系统需要发出一个明确的信号，旁观暴徒殴打他人致死是不可接受的。“所有那些看着她被打死的人都应该受审，”阿富汗独立人权委员会(Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission)喀布尔地区办事处主任沙姆苏拉·艾哈迈德扎伊(Shamsullah Ahmadzai)说，“有人正在被杀害，这可不是儿戏，也不是电影。”