SEOUL, South Korea — Punishing a foreign tourist with 15 years of prison and hard labor for trying to steal a poster inscribed with a political slogan might seem preposterous in most of the world. This week, North Korea’s Supreme Court did just that to Otto F. Warmbier, a 21-year-old American student.
韩国首尔——因为偷了一张题写着政治标语的海报，一名外国游客被判15年监禁和劳役，这样的事发生在世界上绝大多数地方，都会显得很荒唐。本周，朝鲜最高法院正是这样惩罚了21岁的美国学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)。
But in North Korea, where the leader is treated as a deity, political slogans are sacrosanct — a point that does not loom large in many outside appraisals of Mr. Warmbier’s plight.
然而在领导人被奉若神明的朝鲜，政治口号是神圣不可侵犯的——外界在评价瓦姆比尔的遭遇时，时常忽视这一点。
At the beginning of each year, North Korea issues a new set of slogans as unbreakable guides. The gate of every factory and the wall of every classroom bear such slogans. The freshly painted and ubiquitous red-on-white banners are virtually the only thing that leaps out in otherwise drab North Korean towns.
每年年初，朝鲜会发布一套新的口号，作为不可违背的指导原则。每一座工厂的大门，每一间教室的墙上，都有这样的口号。刚刚粉刷不久的、无处不在的白底红字横幅，基本上是单色调的朝鲜城镇中唯一抢眼的东西。
And the most important among them — ones that must be treated like sacred objects — are those that bear the names of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, his father Kim Jong-il, and his grandfather, the North’s founding president, Kim Il-sung, North Korean defectors and South Korean officials say.
脱北者和韩国官员说，这些口号中最重要的——必须当作圣物来对待的——是含有朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)、他的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)和爷爷、朝鲜开国领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)的名字的那些。
Official North Korean accounts said the evidence presented at Mr. Warmbier’s trial showed he tried to steal one of those.
朝鲜官方称，瓦姆比尔案审判中呈交的证据表明，他试图盗窃的标语就属于此类。
“Let’s arm ourselves strongly with Kim Jong-il’s patriotism!” read the slogan.
“让我们用金正日爱国主义武装自己！”标语上写着。
Although the name “Kim Jong-il” was covered by a white block in the photos of the slogan released on North Korean news media, there was no mistaking it. Since his father’s death in 2011, Kim Jong-un has repeatedly called for education in “Kim Jong-il’s patriotism” and the slogan has become common.
尽管朝鲜新闻媒体在公布标语的照片时，将“金正日”用白色方块盖住，但毫无疑问就是这个名字。自他的父亲于2011年去世后，金正恩反复要求学习“金正日爱国主义”，相关的标语也开始普及。
Prosecutors presented closed-circuit television footage of a man they said was Mr. Warmbier taking down the slogan hung on a wall of his hotel in Pyongyang at night.
检方给出了闭路电视画面，显示一名据他们称是瓦姆比尔的男子，在夜里将其在平壤下榻的酒店墙上的标语取下。
On Wednesday, the North Korean court ruled that Mr. Warmbier’s action constituted “subversion” against North Korea.
周三，朝鲜法院宣判瓦姆比尔的行为构成了对朝鲜的“颠覆”。
It is hard to overstate the importance North Koreans attach to safeguarding the names and images of the Kims, who have ruled by a personality cult for decades.
朝鲜人对金家名誉和形象的捍卫是无比重视的，过去几十年来，这个家族一直靠个人崇拜统治着朝鲜。
North Korean news media have reported the “heroic deeds” of villagers who rushed into houses engulfed in flames to save the portraits of Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il, hung on the walls of every home.
朝鲜新闻媒体曾经报道过一些村民的“英勇事迹”，他们冲进燃烧的房屋抢救出金日成和金正日肖像。朝鲜家家户户的墙上都挂着这些肖像。
When South Korean tourists were allowed to visit the North’s scenic Diamond Mountain between 1998 and 2008, they found North Korean officials standing guard around “slogan trees,” whose trunks were inscribed with political slogans bearing the names of the Kims.
1998年到2008年间，韩国游客获准进入朝鲜的金刚山风景区游览，当时游客发现朝鲜官员在一些“标语树”边守卫着，而树干上镌刻着有金氏家族姓名的政治口号。
Likewise, harming slogans bearing their names can be one of the most serious crimes in the North. Defectors have testified about neighbors banished to prison camps for sitting on a newspaper that happened to carry the photo of one of the Kims.
破坏有他们的名字的标语，在朝鲜同样也是最重的罪行之一。曾有脱北者证实，邻居因为不小心坐在了有金家人照片的报纸上，结果被送往劳教。