TOKYO — Iwao Hakamada was a muscular former boxer in his 30s when he was thrown in jail for the killing of a family of four that shocked 1960s Japan. On Thursday, he limped from his cell on death row, a bewildered-looking 78-year-old who, his family fears, may have lost his mind in prison.
东京——袴田岩(Iwao Hakamada)曾是一名肌肉发达的拳击手，他因为在20世纪60年代一桩震惊日本的凶杀案中杀害了一家四口，30多岁时被关入狱。本周四，他一瘸一拐地从死牢中走了出来，一脸茫然。袴田岩现年78岁，家人担心他可能已在狱中精神失常。
It took the courts nearly half a century to conclude that the evidence against him may have been fabricated by police investigators and to order the retrial he sought.
法院用了将近50年才做出结论，对袴田岩不利的证据可能是办案警察捏造出来的，并且依照他的申请，下令对此案进行重审。
The decision on Thursday to release Mr. Hakamada, thought to be the world’s longest serving death row inmate, underscored the dark side of a criminal justice system that boasts a near-100 percent conviction rate and immediately led to calls for reform.
袴田岩可能是世界上服刑时间最长的死囚，本周四让他获释的决定，不仅突显了以定罪率近100%相标榜的日本刑事司法系统的阴暗面，也迅即引发了要求改革的呼声。
Critics have long charged that Japanese prosecutors maintain that rate in part by relying heavily on confessions to take suspects to court — instead of building cases based on solid evidence — sometimes wresting confessions from innocent people too frightened or agitated to resist police pressure.
批评者一直指责，日本检方之所以能维持这样高的定罪率，从一定程度上是因为他们倚重口供来向嫌疑人提起诉讼——而不是基于确凿的证据来提起公诉——有时候，无辜的人由于太过害怕或心烦意乱，无法承受警方施加的压力，被迫做出虚假供述。
With much of the evidence now discredited, the case against Mr. Hakamada rests on what his family and international human rights activists say is just such a confession.
由于袴田岩一案的很多证据现在都不足以采信，他被定罪的依据，根据他家人和国际人权活动人士的说法，就只剩这样的虚假招供了。
During an earlier court hearing, Mr. Hakamada testified that he said he killed the family only after he was beaten with sticks and forced to urinate in a makeshift urinal in the interrogation room. Police records show the interrogation went on for 240 hours over 20 days.
在早期的一次庭审中，袴田岩作证说，他在遭到了棍棒殴打，并被迫在审讯室里一个临时小便器里小便之后，只好说自己杀死了这家人。警方记录显示，在20天的时间里，对他的审讯总时长达240小时。
Mr. Hakamada retracted the confession soon after he made it but was convicted anyway.
袴田岩招供之后很快又翻供了，但是仍然被定了罪。
“When something goes wrong in the Japanese criminal justice, it tends to happen in the interrogation room,” said David T. Johnson, a professor of sociology at the University of Hawaii and an author of books on criminal justice and the death penalty in Japan.
“当日本刑事司法系统出现问题时，往往就出在审讯室里，”夏威夷大学(University of Hawaii)的社会学教授戴维·T·约翰逊(David T. Johnson)说。他曾写过一些有关日本刑事司法和死刑的书籍。
The court decision also highlights what many activists call the cruelty of death row rules in Japan that deny inmates — and their families — any warning of their executions in order to forestall protests.
法院的这个决定，也突显了许多活动人士称为死囚牢规则的残忍之处：不把处决日期提前告知死囚及其家属，以防出现抗议活动。
Those rules meant that for much of his time in prison, Mr. Hakamada rose each weekday in solitary confinement not knowing whether it would be his last. (Executions are not conducted on weekends.)
这样的规则意味着，在狱中的大部分时间里，袴田岩每个工作日在单人牢房起床时，都不知道这是不是自己的最后一天。（处决不会在周末进行。）
His frequent letters from prison to his older sister soon descended into gibberish, his sister told NHK, the public broadcaster, and his lawyers say he now shows signs of dementia. It is impossible to know if boxing contributed to his troubles.
袴田岩的姐姐告诉公共电视广播公司NHK，他在监狱里常常给她写信，但信的内容很快就沦为了胡言乱语。袴田岩的律师说，他现在已出现老年痴呆症的迹象。但也无法知道，拳击是不是造成这种状况的原因之一。
By the time his lawyers first told him he was free on Thursday, they said, he seemed almost unable to take in the good news.
他们说，本周四，他刚刚从律师那里得知自己获释的时候，几乎无法相信这个好消息。
“You lie,” he said warily. “I’m finished.”
“你撒谎，”他警惕地说。“我完蛋了。”
Mr. Hakamada’s odyssey in the court system began after he retired as a featherweight boxer and went to work at a miso maker in Shizuoka, in central Japan. Several years after being hired on, in 1966, the charred bodies of a manager at the company, his wife and two children were found in what appeared to be a murder and fire at their house; the house had also been burglarized. More than a month later, the police arrested Mr. Hakamada.
袴田岩在法院系统的艰难历程，开始于他进入一家味噌制造公司之后。他曾经是一名轻量级拳击手，退役后到了日本中部静冈的这家味噌制造公司工作。在他入职几年之后的1966年，公司一位经理及妻子、两个孩子烧焦的尸体在家中被发现。他们似乎是先被杀，房子又着了火，而且住宅也遭了窃。一个多月后，警方逮捕了袴田岩。
Problems soon arose with the evidence. A pair of bloodstained pants found in a tank of miso paste near the scene of the crime that prosecutors said belonged to Mr. Hakamada were too small, which his defense team proved when he tried them on in court. But the force of the confession still allowed him to be convicted.
证据很快就出现了问题。有一条血迹斑斑的裤子，是在犯罪现场附近一个装有味噌酱的箱子里找到的，检方说这条裤子属于袴田岩，但他的辩护团队让他在法庭上试穿这条裤子时，证明了它的尺寸太小。但是，袴田岩的招供还是导致了他被定罪。
The break in the case came recently when the defense team won its argument that DNA testing should be done on the pants and other clothing presented as evidence. The testing showed the blood did not match Mr. Hakamada’s.
最近，袴田岩辩护团队提出，应该对那条裤子和其他作为证据的衣物进行DNA检测，他们的主张获得了采纳，案件才取得了突破。检测结果表明，裤子上的血液跟袴田岩的不匹配。
In announcing the decision to free him, the presiding judge, Hiroaki Murayama, said in a statement that “the possibility of his innocence has become clear to a respectable degree, and it is unbearably unjust to prolong the defendant’s detention any further.”
在宣布释放他的决定时，主审法官村山浩昭(Hiroaki Murayama)在一份声明中说，“他无辜的可能已经变得相当清晰，继续延长被告羁押时间的做法都是不公平的，无法忍受。”
The United States justice system has also come under significant scrutiny because of false convictions, some of them leading to death sentences. The Innocence Project in New York says more than 300 prisoners have been freed based on DNA evidence.
美国的司法系统也因为误判而经历各种审查，其中一些误判导致被告被判处死刑。纽约的“洗冤工程”(Innocence Project)组织说，DNA证据已经让300多名囚犯重获自由。
Japan’s conviction rate cannot be compared directly with that of the United States. There is no plea bargaining in Japan and prosecutors put forward only cases they are confident they will win. But experts say that the system is vulnerable to mistakes because acquittals can be considered harmful to the careers of prosecutors and judges alike. Even now with jury trials, judges still have a say in many decisions.
日本的定罪率不能与美国直接做比较。日本没有认罪协商，检方只会把他们自信能赢的案子诉至法庭。但专家说，这样的制度很容易产生错误，因为无罪判决有可能会被视作检察官和法官职业生涯中的污点。即使现在有了陪审团，法官仍然在很多决定中拥有发言权。
Local news media said prosecutors intend to to appeal the court’s decision on Mr. Hakamada. On Thursday, Amnesty International, which has championed Mr. Hakamada’s case, said in a statement that “it would be most callous and unfair of prosecutors to appeal the court’s decision. Time is running out for Hakamada to receive the fair trial he was denied more than four decades ago.”
日本新闻媒体说，对于法院关于袴田岩的判决，检方打算提起上诉。本周四，一直在为袴田岩案件奔走的国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)在一份声明中称：“检方对法院的决定提起上述，这会是最冷酷无情、最不公正的事情。袴田岩40多年以前没有受到公平的审判，他获得公平审判的时间已经不多了。”
“If ever there was a case that merits a retrial, this is it,” wrote Roseann Rife, East Asia research director at Amnesty International and the author of the statement.
“如果有一个案子值得重审，那么就是这个案子，”这份声明的撰写人、国际特赦组织东亚区研究主任阮柔安(Roseann Rife)说。
Mr. Hakamada’s release was front-page news and generated an outpouring of sympathy and grief. Among those calling for reform was a former appeals court judge, who called for a comprehensive discussion of capital punishment in an interview with NHK. Other critics demanded the justice system move more quickly. Mr. Hakamada’s conviction in 1968 was upheld by a Tokyo appeals court in 1976, and by the Supreme Court in 1980. The next year, his defense team filed its first plea for a retrial. It took almost three more decades for that plea to make its way through the courts, only to be rejected in 2008.Yoshihide Suga, the top government spokesman, said that he was not in a position to comment on individual court rulings.
袴田岩获释成了头版新闻，让许多人感到同情和悲伤。在要求改革的人中，有一位曾是上诉法院的法官，在接受NHK采访时，他呼吁人们对死刑展开全面讨论。另外一些批评者要求司法系统更加快速地处理案件。袴田岩1968年被定罪，东京一家上诉法院和最高法院分别于1976年和1980年宣布维持原判。次年，他的辩护团队首次递交了重审申请。花了差不多30年时间，这份申请才走完所有的法庭程序，于2008年遭到拒绝。日本政府首席发言人菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)说，他没有资格对法院的个案裁决予以置评。