It was the last Monday in June, and the Supreme Court had just issued its latest decision on affirmative action. The debate was starting about how much the court had restricted the use of race in college admissions.
这是去年6月份的最后一个星期一，最高法院刚刚就平权行动(affirmative action)发布了它的最新判决。一场关于法院已在多大程度上限制大学基于种族因素录取新生的辩论刚刚拉开序幕。
But Edward Blum, the legal entrepreneur who had orchestrated the case, wasted no time. He made a prediction that sounded a little like a threat.
但这起案件的策划者，法务创业人士爱德华·布鲁姆(Edward Blum)没有浪费时间。他做出了一个听起来有点像是威胁的预测。
“Those universities that continue using race-based affirmative action,” he said, “will likely find themselves embroiled in costly and polarizing litigation.”
“那些继续推行种族平权行动的大学，很可能会卷入昂贵且两极分化的诉讼案之中，”他说。
It is now almost a year later. Admissions letters have just gone out, and there is no particular reason to think the court’s decision in Fisher v. University of Texas affected how students were selected. And the lawsuits Mr. Blum predicted have not materialized.
在差不多一年后的今天，录取通知书刚刚发出，目前还没有什么特别的理由促使我们认为，法庭对费舍尔诉德克萨斯大学一案(Fisher v. University of Texas)的判决已经对大学选择学生的方式产生了影响。布鲁姆预言的诉讼浪潮还没有变为现实。
There are reasons for that, Mr. Blum told me last week. One is that it is hard to find plaintiffs willing to call attention to having been rejected by a prestigious institution, to blame that rejection on race discrimination and to persevere through years of litigation.
布鲁姆上周对我说，这是有原因的。其一是，很难找到一些愿意唤起公众关注自己因种族歧视被知名学府拒绝的遭遇，同时又能够坚持走完长达数年的诉讼历程的原告。
“It’s understandable that most teenagers will want to avoid this scrutiny,” Mr. Blum said, “especially if their character and motives may be besmirched by others.”
“大多数青少年都不愿接受这种审查，这是可以理解的，”布鲁姆说。“尤其是当他们的品格和动机有可能遭受其他人诋毁的时候。”
But Mr. Blum does not give up easily. He has started a series of websites seeking plaintiffs.
但布鲁姆并没有轻易放弃。他已经创办了一系列招募原告的网站。
“Were you denied admission to the University of North Carolina?” one asks. “It may be because you’re the wrong race.”
“你的入学申请是否被北卡罗莱纳大学(University of North Carolina)拒绝了？”一个网站这样问道。“这可能是因为你的种族不对。”
The site features a picture of a student who appears to be Asian-American. There is a form to fill out and a bit of hand holding. Mr. Blum’s group, the Project on Fair Representation, “covers all expenses,” the site says. “In every similar case during the last 12 years or so, no individual was required to appear or testify in any court or talk to the media.”
这家网站特载了一位看上去像是亚裔美国学生的照片。还有一张需要填写的表单和一些手把手的指导。布鲁姆的组织公平代表运动(Project on Fair Representation)“为所有费用买单，”该网站说。“在过去大约12年间的每一个类似案例中，没有一个人被要求出庭作证或接受媒体采访。”
The sites — there are also ones for the University of Wisconsin at Madison and Harvard — will evoke differing reactions.
除此之外，布鲁姆还创办了两家针对威斯康星大学麦迪逊分校(University of Wisconsin at Madison)和哈佛大学( Harvard University)的网站。它们将激发起不同的反应。
Civil rights movements have long recruited plaintiffs, and so the sites may be said to be part of a proud tradition. But some may detect a whiff of the personal injury lawyer about them.
长期以来，民权运动一直在招募原告。因此，这些网站可以说是一个值得骄傲的传统的一部分。但有些人可能发现它们带有一丝人身伤害律师的气息。
Mr. Blum was also behind Shelby County v. Holder, which was issued the day after the Fisher decision and struck down a core provision of the Voting Rights Act.
布鲁姆还是谢尔比县诉霍尔德(Shelby County v. Holder)一案的幕后推手，这起诉讼案是在费舍尔一案判决后次日发起的，它最终推翻了《投票权法案》( Voting Rights Act)一项核心条款。
He is, he said, “a one-man organization” and “the low-cost, high-volume producer” of challenges to government programs that rely on race. His group’s money comes from perhaps a dozen individuals and foundations, he said, and it goes to pay legal fees. In a Reuters article on Mr. Blum’s work, Joan Biskupic found that his donors included conservative groups like the Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation and the Searle Freedom Trust.
布鲁姆说，他是“一个人的组织”，“以低成本，高产量”的方式挑战各种基于种族考量的政府项目。为他提供资金的个人和基金会可能有十几个之多，这些资金主要被用来支付律师费，他说。在路透社(Reuters )一篇介绍布鲁姆所做工作的文章中，琼·比什库皮奇(Joan Biskupic)发现，他的捐助者包括像林德和哈里·布雷德利基金会(Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation)和塞尔自由信托基金会 (Searle Freedom Trust)这样的保守派团体。
Mr. Blum said the Fisher decision “imposed an incredibly heavy burden on colleges and universities.” That is not the only way to read the ruling, though it did require universities that want to use race in admissions decisions first to show that “available, workable race-neutral alternatives do not suffice.”
布鲁姆说，费舍尔一案的判决“给高等院校施加了一项沉重得令人难以置信的负担。”这并不是解读这项判决的唯一方式，但它的确要求那些打算在招生工作中考虑种族因素的大学首先表明，“可用且可行的种族中立替代政策无法满足要求。”
Lee Bollinger, the president of Columbia University, said the words of the Fisher decision largely reaffirmed the court’s 2003 decision in Grutter v. Bollinger, which upheld a University of Michigan affirmative action plan when he was its president.
哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)校长李·鲍林格(Lee Bollinger)表示，费舍尔一案的判决书用词基本上重申了法庭对2003年格鲁特诉鲍林格(Grutter v. Bollinger)一案的判决，后者认可了密歇根大学的平权行动计划，鲍林格当时担任该校校长。
“But if you look at the tone of it,” he said, “you can begin to detect a greater burden on universities.”
“但如果你仔细观察这份判决书的语气，你就会开始觉察到大学将承受更大的负担，”他说。
The court, in a 7-to-1 decision that was surely the product of hard-fought compromise, declined to say whether the University of Texas had run afoul of the legal standard it announced, leaving that task to the federal appeals court in New Orleans. The appeals court heard arguments in November and should rule shortly.
这项判决（7位法官赞同，1人反对）肯定经历了一番激烈的妥协过程。最高法院拒绝透露得克萨斯大学是否触犯了它宣布的法律规范，把这项任务留给了位于新奥尔良的联邦上诉法院。该上诉法院已于去年11月份听取了相关陈述，估计很快就将作出判决。
Mr. Blum said the three universities featured in his websites have been particularly resistant to the Fisher decision.
布鲁姆说，他的网站提到的三所大学一直对费舍尔一案的判决特别抵触。
Stephen M. Farmer, the vice provost in charge of undergraduate admissions at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said that the decision “reminded us what we already know” and that the school continued to review race-neutral alternatives.
北卡罗莱纳大学教堂山分校负责本科生招生工作的副教务长斯蒂芬·法玛尔(Stephen M. Farmer)表示，这项判决“提醒我们注意一些我们已经知道的事情，”该校将继续审视种族中立的替代政策。
“We have done everything we know how to do to abide by the letter and the spirit of the law,” he said.
“我们已经做了一切我们知道如何去做的事情，以恪守法律条文和精神，”他说。
A spokesman for the University of Wisconsin declined to comment on how it has reacted to the Fisher ruling, and a Harvard spokeswoman went silent after saying she would ask around.
威斯康星大学一位发言人拒绝就该校对费舍尔一案的反应发表评论，哈佛大学一位女发言人起初说她需要打听一下，随后就陷入沉默。
Mr. Blum did not provide much evidence that the three universities were outliers, but he did point to a passage from a brief filed by the University of North Carolina in the Fisher case. It said the university had calculated the consequences of using one race-neutral plan and found that it would increase diversity.
布鲁姆并没有提供大量足以表明这三所大学属于异常现象的证据，但他的确指出北卡罗莱纳大学在费舍尔一案中提交的陈辩书的一段话。这段话写道，该校已经估算出使用一项种族中立计划的后果，并且发现这样做会增加多样性。
If the university had simply admitted any student who graduated in the top 10 percent of a state high school in 2012, the brief said, it would have seen a slight uptick in “the overall percentage of nonwhite and underrepresented students who would enroll at Chapel Hill,” from 15 percent to 16 percent.
这份陈辩书写道，倘若这所大学在2012年只是简单地招收任何一位毕业成绩位于州高中前10%的学生，“教堂山分校招收的非白人和代表性不足的学生所占比重”会小幅上扬，从15%上升至16%。
The brief added that “almost every other indicator of academic quality,” like grade point averages and standardized test scores, would fall.
该陈辩书补充说，“几乎所有其他的学术质量指标，”比如平均绩点和标准化考试成绩，将下降。
Mr. Farmer said that would be a poor bargain.
法玛尔说，这将是一个糟糕的交易。
“The student body that would yield would be a less accomplished student body that would be nominally more diverse,” he said. “We don’t think that having a rigid or inflexible approach to evaluating human beings yields the strongest student body.”
“这样就会产生一个名义上更加多样化，但学术成就不那么高的学生群体，”他说。“我们并不认为，使用一种刚性或者不灵活的方式来评估每一个鲜活的个体，会产生最强大的学生群体。”