ISTANBUL — A 50-year-old Frenchman who was snatched from his hotel room in Mali by Al Qaeda’s affiliate in North Africa and held captive for more than three years was released, President François Hollande of France announced on Tuesday.
伊斯坦布尔——法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)周二宣布，基地组织的北非分支将释放一名50岁的法国男子。该男子三年多以前在马里的酒店房间中遭到绑架，此后一直被扣为人质。
“It’s a day of joy,” Mr. Hollande said in a video posted on the government’s website. “Our hostage Serge Lazarevic — our last hostage — is free.”
“这是一个高兴的日子，”奥朗德在政府网站上发布的一段视频中说。“我们的人质塞尔日·拉扎雷维奇(Serge Lazarevic)——最后一名法国人质——自由了。”
Even as France celebrated Mr. Lazarevic’s return from captivity in the burning sands and craggy caves of the Sahara, questions were being asked about what concessions the French government made to the extremist group, Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, that held him.
但就在法国庆祝拉扎雷维奇离开灼热的沙漠和陡峭的山洞，回到祖国之时，许多人提出了这样的问题：法国政府向绑架他的伊斯兰马格里布基地组织(Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb)的极端分子做了何种让步。
Jean-Paul Rouiller, director of the Geneva Center for Training and Analysis of Terrorism, who has followed Mr. Lazarevic’s case, said that Mohamed Ali Ag Wadossene and Heiba Ag Acherif, two members of a Tuareg clan with close ties to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, had been released from prison, according to Malian government officials.
日内瓦恐怖主义训练分析中心(Geneva Center for Training and Analysis of Terrorism)主任让-保罗·鲁耶(Jean-Paul Rouiller)一直关注拉扎雷维奇被绑架事件。他说，据马里政府官员称，与伊斯兰马格里布基地组织关系密切的两名图瓦雷克族(Tuareg)人——穆罕默德·阿里·阿格·瓦多森(Mohamed Ali Ag Wadossene)和黑巴·阿格·阿克里夫(Heiba Ag Acherif)——已从监狱获释。
If there was a prisoner exchange, it again pits France against its allies, including the United States, on the question of how to free hostages held by Islamic extremists. In the past four months, including this past weekend, four United States citizens have been executed by Al Qaeda in Yemen and the Islamic State, an offshoot of Al Qaeda in Iraq.
如果存在囚犯交换的行为，那么在如何解救被伊斯兰极端分子扣押的人质的问题上，法国就再一次站到了美国等盟友的对立面。过去四个月，包括刚刚过去的周末，已有四名美国公民被基地组织也门分支和基地组织在伊拉克的分支伊斯兰国(Islamic State)处决。
Prisoner exchanges have usually been a secondary request, after ransom, said Mr. Rouiller, who has helped negotiate the release of other Europeans held by the same group that kidnapped Mr. Lazarevic. “They ask for prisoners if they can, but it’s money that is of the essence,” he said. “Money first, and fellow prisoners second.”
囚犯交换通常是赎金之外的附属要求，鲁耶说。他参与过释放被同一组织绑架的其他欧洲人质的谈判。“如果可能的话，他们会要求对方释放自己的囚犯，但核心还是钱，”他说。“赎金第一，囚犯第二。”
Pierre Martinet, a former French intelligence official, said French citizens would continue to be targeted by kidnappers “because they know it is among the governments that directly negotiates for their liberation.”
法国前情报官员皮埃尔·马蒂内(Pierre Martinet)说，法国公民仍将是绑匪的目标，“因为他们知道，法国是愿意与他们直接谈判释放人质的政府之一。”
“I know very well that we have given money,” Mr. Martinet told the BFM television channel, The Associated Press reported. “It happens. We have to stop lying to ourselves.”
美联社报道，马蒂内对BFM电视台说，“我非常清楚我们交了赎金。这种事的确会发生，我们不能再对自己说谎了。”
While governments in Europe deny paying ransoms, an investigation by The New York Times found that Al Qaeda and its direct affiliates have taken in at least $125 million in revenue from kidnappings since 2008, of which $66 million was paid last year alone.
尽管欧洲国家的政府都否认支付过赎金，但是《纽约时报》的一项调查发现，自从2008年以来，基地组织及其直属分支从绑架活动中至少获得了1.25亿美元（约合7.74亿元人民币）的收入，其中单是去年就获得了6600万美元。
In November 2011, Mr. Lazarevic and his colleague, the French geologist Philippe Verdon, were grabbed from their hotel rooms in the Malian town of Hombori, where they had gone to study the feasibility of opening a cement factory. The operation was carried out by Mr. Ag Acherif and a relative of Mr. Ag Wadossene, working as subcontractors for Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb. According to intelligence officials, the group had issued a “bid” for French hostages because it had experience dealing with the French government: It earned millions of euros in ransom for a French hostage, Françoise Larribe, just a few months earlier, according to one of the negotiators in that case.
2011年11月，拉扎雷维奇及其同事、法国地质学家菲利普·韦尔东(Philippe Verdon)在马里城市洪博里的酒店房间内被抓走。他们在那里是为了研究开设一家水泥厂的可行性。绑架的实施者是阿格·阿克里夫和阿格·瓦多森的一个亲戚，后者是伊斯兰马格里布基地组织的分包商。据情报官员称，该组织开出了释放法国人质的“报价”，因为它有过与法国政府打交道的经验：一名参与相关谈判的官员说，就在几个月前，该组织利用法国人质弗朗索瓦兹·拉里布(Françoise Larribe)获得了数百万欧元的赎金。
Within days of their capture, Mr. Lazarevic and Mr. Verdon were handed over to Al Qaeda.
遭到劫持的几天之后，拉扎雷维奇和韦尔东被交给了基地组织。