An Australian icebreaker worked its way slowly through thick ice off Antarctica early Monday in the latest attempt to rescue about 70 people aboard a stranded research ship.
周一早上，一艘澳大利亚破冰船在南极洲附近厚厚的冰层中缓缓地行进，这是为营救一艘搁浅科考船上约70名乘客而进行的最新一次尝试。
The ship, the 233-foot Akademik Shokalskiy, became stuck in the ice last Tuesday when strong winds pushed loose pack ice up against it near Cape de la Motte, about 1,700 miles south of Hobart, Tasmania. It is carrying the Australasian Antarctic Expedition, scientists and tourists who are studying changes to the environment of East Antarctica in the century since the region was first explored.
233英尺（约合71米）长的“绍卡利斯基院士”号(Akademik Shokalskiy)上周二被困在冰中，当时船在塔斯马尼亚州霍巴特以南1700英里处的德拉莫特角，强风把大块浮冰吹到了绍卡利斯基院士号周围。这艘船上搭载着包括科学家和游客在内的澳大拉西亚南极考察队(Australasian Antarctic Expedition)，他们正在研究东南极洲在首次被探索后的一个世纪里所发生的环境变化。
By Monday, the icebreaker, the Aurora Australis, was 11 nautical miles from the Shokalskiy, according to the Australian Maritime Safety Authority, which is coordinating the rescue operation. Chris Turney, a leader of the research expedition, said in a phone interview from the ship, “We’ve been in contact with them and we can see them.”
负责协调此次救援行动的澳大利亚海洋安全局(Australian Maritime Safety Authority)说，截至周一，这艘“南极光”号(Aurora Australis)破冰船距离绍卡利斯基院士号还有11海里。科考队的负责人克里斯·特尼(Chris Turney)在船上接受电话采访时说，“我们一直与他们保持着联系，我们能看见他们。”
The Australis is the second icebreaker to try to reach the ship. A Chinese vessel, the Xue Long, had tried early Saturday but was stalled by the thick ice.
南极光号是试图营救这艘船的第二艘破冰船。中国的“雪龙号”周六早上试图参与营救，但因冰层太厚而受阻。
Dr. Turney, who is a professor of climate change at the University of New South Wales, said that if the Australian ship was unable to clear a path to free the Shokalskiy, the Xue Long, which has remained in the area, had a helicopter that could be used to ferry people to the Australis. The Australis would take them to Casey Station, a base operated by the Australian Antarctic Division, and from there they would take other ships home.
特尼博士是新南威尔士大学(University of New South Wales)研究气候变化的教授，他说，如果澳大利亚的船不能开辟出一条营救绍卡利斯基院士号的路，仍在该地区的雪龙号有一架直升机，可以用这架直升机把人送到南极光号上。而后南极光号会把人送到澳大利亚南极司(Australian Antarctic Division)管理的基地凯西站(Casey Station)，他们将从那里乘坐其他船只回家。
“We’ve warned everyone on board that that’s a possibility,” Dr. Turney said. All on board are well and morale is good, he said.
特尼说，“我们已经提醒船上所有人存在这种可能性。他说全体船员状况良好，精神状态也不错。
The expedition, with a multidisciplinary team of about 25 professors and graduate students and 20 tourists, set sail from Bluff, New Zealand, on Dec. 8 on what was to be a monthlong voyage. The expedition is retracing some of the travels, and replicating some of the studies, of the Australian geologist Douglas Mawson, who first explored East Antarctica from 1911-14.
这个科考队是一个由多学科研究人员组成的团队，包括25名教授和研究生，以及20名游客。他们于12月8日从新西兰的布拉夫出发，行程原计划持续一个月。考察队正在重走澳大利亚地质学家道格拉斯·莫森(Douglas Mawson)的一些旅行线路，重现他的一些研究。莫森在1911年到1914年率先探索了东南极洲。
The ship anchored at the edge of pack ice on Dec. 18, and Dr. Turney and others spent a day journeying about 45 miles across the ice to Mawson’s hut. The ship then headed east through open water. But as it began heading north, it “ran afoul of very strong winds” that pushed the loose ice in its way. “It pegged us in,” he said, and the frozen expanse quickly grew as more ice piled up. “At first we were just two nautical miles from getting to open water, and now it’s 20,” he said.
这艘船12月18日停靠在了一大块浮冰的边上，特尼博士等人用一天的时间在冰面上行走了大约45英里，抵达了莫森的小屋。科考船随后在开放的水面上向东行驶。但在它开始向北行驶时，“遇到了非常强劲的风力”，被漂浮的冰块阻挡了去路。他说，“风把我们”嵌在了冰里，随着浮冰的积累，冰面迅速扩大。他说，“最初我们离水面只有两海里，现在却有20海里。”
Even though it is summer in the Antarctic, waiting for the ice to break up on its own is not an option, Dr. Turney said, because of the risk that the ship could drift along with the ice and collide with one of several icebergs in the area, which are drifting independently of the pack ice.
特尼博士说，在南极洲，即使是夏天，等着冰层自己化开也是不可行的，因为船可能会和浮冰一起漂浮，与该地区若干冰山中的某座相撞。冰山和大块浮冰都在漂浮，但彼此独立。
Since the ship became stuck, Dr. Turney and others have been a regular presence on Twitter and other social media sites. Some have made short videos describing their experiences.
船被困住后，特尼等人一直在Twitter和其他社交媒体上频繁发布信息。一些人制作了短视频，描述他们的经历。
Dr. Turney said that some of the people aboard had gone onto the ice to study birds and make other scientific observations, and that others had occupied themselves on board with ad-hoc classes in subjects like knot tying. And a steady diet of films has been available to help pass the time, he said.
特尼说，船上的一些人到冰上去研究鸟类，或是进行其他的科学观察，另外一些人则在船上的临时课堂上学习打结等技能。他说，船上还不间断地播放电影，帮助人们打发时间。
“At first, people were starting to watch disaster movies,” Dr. Turney added. “But I had to stop that.” Now it is mostly comedies, although episodes of the hit series “Breaking Bad” have been popular, too.
特尼补充说，“起初，人们开始看起了灾难片。我不得不阻止他们。”现在，他们看的主要是喜剧片，不过热门美剧《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)也很受欢迎。