WASHINGTON — After 14 years of detention, Abu Zubaydah, the suspected terrorist brutally tortured after his capture in 2002, appeared for the first time at a Guantánamo Bay hearing on Tuesday morning and said he should be released because he posed no threat.
华盛顿——周二，在关塔那摩湾(Guantánamo Bay)的一场听证会上，已经被关押14年的恐怖分子嫌疑人阿布·朱贝达(Abu Zubaydah)首次公开露面，声称自己应该被释放，因为他并不构成任何威胁。2002年被捕后，朱贝达曾遭受酷刑折磨。
Through an anonymous soldier who read a summary of his views under convoluted Defense Department rules, Zubaydah declared that he “has no desire or intent to harm the United States or any other country.” He said he would like to be reunited with his family and “has some seed money that could be used to start a business after he is reintegrated into society.”
根据国防部的复杂规定，一名匿名军人宣读了朱贝达的观点概要。朱贝达通过这名军人表示，他“没有伤害美国或其他国家的意愿或意图”。他说他想要和家人重新团聚，并“能得到一些本钱，以便在重新融入社会后做生意谋生”。
Video of the 17-minute open part of the hearing was streamed to a Pentagon conference room where a dozen reporters and human rights advocates were allowed to watch. It was a landmark of a sort: the hearing was the first time that members of the public other than his lawyers had been allowed to see him since his capture after being badly injured in a shootout in Pakistan in March 2002.
在五角大楼一间会议室里，数十名记者和人权倡导人士获准观看传到那里的一段视频，该视频时长17分钟，记录了听证会可公开的环节。这是具有某种里程碑意义的一幕：自从朱贝达于2002年3月在巴基斯坦被捕以来，这是其律师以外的公众首次获准见到他的真面目。被捕前，朱贝达在一场枪战中受了重伤。
Zubaydah, now 45, did not speak during the unclassified part of the hearing, called a Periodic Review Board.
听证会名为定期审查委员会(Periodic Review Board)。在听证会的非保密部分中，现年45岁的朱贝达并未开口说话。
Born in Saudi Arabia to a family of Palestinian background, Zubaydah became a sort of travel agent, camp administrator and facilitator for militant fighters in Afghanistan in the early 1990s.
朱贝达生于沙特阿拉伯的一个巴勒斯坦人家庭，在1990年代初期成了阿富汗武装分子的某种出行代办人、营地管理员和帮手。
But when he was shot and taken into U.S. custody six months after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, he was the first significant suspect captured in an increasingly desperate global CIA manhunt. At the time, U.S. intelligence officials wrongly concluded that he was a top-ranking leader of al-Qaida who might have knowledge of forthcoming plots.
但2001年9月11日的恐怖袭击发生六个月后，他中枪并被美国政府扣押，成为中央情报局(CIA)的一场日益无望的全球大搜捕行动中的第一名重要嫌疑人。当时，美国情报官员错误地认为，他是基地组织(al-Qaida)的高级别头目，或许知道一些即将实施的计划。
That mistaken belief was one reason CIA officials, advised by two military psychologists who had no experience conducting interrogations, decided to use extreme physical force to try to break him. The decision followed a productive, traditional interrogation by FBI agents, who believed Zubaydah was cooperating and thought the harsh measures unnecessary and unjustified.
出于包括这一错误认识在内的一些原因，CIA官员在两名没有审讯经验的军方心理学家建议下，做出了使用极端体罚方法逼供的决定。后来，FBI以传统方式对朱贝达进行了卓有成效的审讯，他们认为他颇为合作，觉得那些严酷的手段既无必要也不合理。
He was the first prisoner to be subjected to waterboarding — 83 times water was poured over a cloth covering his mouth and nose to give him the feeling of drowning, as records later would show. Interrogators were themselves distressed by his suffering and told CIA supervisors that they thought he had no more information to offer, only to be told to continue the rough treatment.
他是第一名被施以水刑的犯人——正如相关记录后来所示，有人把水倒在他口鼻处盖着的一块布上，让他产生溺水感，前后共83次。他所受到的折磨之重，连审讯人员自己都已不忍，他们对CIA上级主管说他已无可招供，但却被命令继续施以酷刑。
Officials later acknowledged that the initial description of him as the No. 3 figure in al-Qaida was incorrect.
官员们后来承认，当初把他说成基地组织的三号人物是错误的。