The customs officer at Changi Airport in Singapore gestured at my girlfriend’s suitcase as it rolled out from the X-ray machine. He repeated his question for a third and final time: “Are you sure you don’t have anything in your bag that you’d like to tell us about?”
新加坡樟宜机场的海关官员用手指向了我女朋友那正在从X光机里缓缓移出的行李箱。他第三次，也是最后一次问道：“你确定你包里没有什么需要告诉我们的东西？”
By now, panic had spread across my girlfriend’s face. If we confessed to what was in there, we would be in trouble. If we didn’t and they searched her bag, things would only be worse.
那时恐慌已经写满在我女朋友的脸上。如果我们坦白承认行李箱里有什么，我们就惹麻烦了。如果我们不说而是让他们去搜查，那么情况只会更加糟糕。
She looked at me questioningly, as if this were my country, not hers. “No,” she said to the officer. “We declared everything.”
她满脸疑虑地看了看我，好像这是在我的国家而不是在她的国家一样。“没有，”她对海关职员说。“我们什么都申报了。”
“That’s right,” I seconded with a fake, jet-lagged smile.
“嗯，是这样的。”由于时差感到疲倦的我用一个虚假的笑容表示赞同。
I wondered if, instead of getting engaged during our Asian holiday, we might be jailed. The contraband we had failed to declare was two cartons of cigarettes, but less than a dozen cartons can land you three to six months in prison in Singapore, even for a first-time offense. No wonder the officer had given us so many chances to confess.
我当时怀疑，我们这包含着一个订婚计划的亚洲之旅可能要被坐牢代替了。我们没有申报的违禁物品是两盒香烟。但是少于12盒香烟就足以让你在新加坡的监狱服刑3到6个月，哪怕是初犯者。难怪海关官员给了我们这么多次坦白的机会。
My girlfriend had bought the cigarettes for herself en route because they’re so expensive in Singapore, something she had previously done without a problem. But either enforcement had tightened since her last visit, or she had just been lucky.
我的女朋友是在沿途中给她自己买的这些香烟，因为它们在新加坡非常昂贵。以前她也从来没有遇到过麻烦。要么是执法力度从她上次回来后变得更加严格了，要么她就是很不走运。
As the officer and his colleagues rummaged through our bags, I could see my girlfriend’s family waiting outside the glass doors of the baggage area. A lot was riding on this first impression. I had never met them in person, and my girlfriend hadn’t been home in years. They were beaming at us and waving, too far away to recognize something was amiss, at least until the officers escorted us away.
就在海关官员和他的同事搜查我们的行李的时候，我能透过玻璃门看到我女朋友在行李提取处等待着的家人。很多事情都取决于他们对我的第一印象。我以前从来没有见过他们，我的女朋友也多年没有回过家。他们笑容满面的向我们招手，当然他们也离我们太远所以感觉不到事情有些不对，至少直到我们被海关职员领走后。
We were marched into the back of the terminal and through a doorway marked “restricted.” Our escort told us to sit on a bench as his colleagues searched our bags until they found what they were looking for.
我们被护送到机场大厅后面，经过了一条标示着“禁区”的走廊。护送我们的人叫我们在椅子上坐着等，一直等到他的同事在我们的包里找到他们要找的东西。
With the cartons now stacked at the end of the table, the officer holding our passports asked if we were married.
两盒香烟现在被放到了桌子的另一端，海关官员拿着我们的护照问我们是否已经结婚了。
“No, just dating,” I said.
“没有，我们只是在谈恋爱。”我说。
People who knew us might have assumed we were headed for something more. We had met in graduate school a year earlier and quickly moved in together, and now we had flown halfway around the world so I could meet her family. I had even gone so far as to save up enough of my graduate school student stipend to pay for a hotel room in Bali where I hoped to propose, and for the diamond ring I would ideally proffer.
认识我们的人或许认为我们对这段感情有更长远的计划。我们是一年前在研究生院认识的，并且很快就同居了。现在我们飞越了半个地球就为了让我能见到她的家人。我甚至不惜省下我一大笔研究生的津贴用来支付在巴厘岛的一间酒店房间，我计划在那里向她求婚，用一个我希望到时能有的钻戒。
But all I really had at that point was a setting — a gold band, its diamond lost long ago, that my mother, a lawyer, had taken as partial payment for a client’s divorce. The empty setting had gathered dust on my parents’ closet shelf for years until I confessed my plan to them, stressing that it was merely hypothetical.
不过我当时有的仅仅是一个底座——一个金环，上面的钻石早就没有了。这个金环是我当律师的妈妈的一个离婚案诉讼委托人送给她用来抵消一部分律师费的。这个空空的底座已经在我父母的衣柜架子上积攒了多年的灰尘，直到我告诉他们我的计划，并且一再强调这只是一个假想中的计划。
Then my girlfriend and I left on our trip. Unsure if the ring would ever see the light of day, I had stuffed it into my toiletries bag, the one now being emptied by the customs officer.
然后我就和我的女朋友就踏上了我们的旅程。不确定这个戒指是否能有见光日的一天。我把它放到了我的洗漱包里，那个现在正在被海关官员掏空的洗漱包里。
“What’s in here?” he asked, unzipping one of the compartments.
“这里面是什么？”他问道，拉开其中的一个隔间。
“Just my toothbrush,” I said.
“我的牙刷而已。”我说道。
We live much of our lives in a state of paralysis, letting fate make decisions for us. But at the most important moments — when we’re facing an emergency or falling in love — we think we will know the right things to do and say.
我们在大部分时间中都生活在一种虚弱无力的状态中，习惯着让命运为我们做着决定。但是在最重要的关头，当我们面对一个紧急情况或是坠入爱河时——我们却认为我们会知道该说的话或是该做的事。
“My instincts just took over,” said the man on the news after rescuing his neighbor’s cat from a burning apartment.
“我的本能一下子就接手了。”一个从着火的公寓里救出他邻居的猫的人在电视上说。
“You’ll know when it’s time,” my mother told a much younger me when I asked her when I would marry.
“时候到了你自然就知道了。”当我在很小的时候问我妈妈我什么时候会结婚时，她回答道。
Yet at 30, I had never experienced “just knowing” in that context. I had had many girlfriends, lived with several, even felt as if I loved one or two, but the much-anticipated epiphany — “I just know she’s the one” — failed to present itself. Disappointed, I had broken off every relationship.
然而现在30岁的我仍然还从来没有经历过这种“我就是知道”的感觉。我曾经有过许多女朋友，也和好几个同居过，甚至还觉得我真的爱过其中的一两个，但是那期待已久的神圣的感受——“我就是知道她是我的真命天女”——从来没有出现过。失望之余，我也结束了我有过的每一段感情。
When I met my grad school girlfriend, I had good reason to think she might be it. She wasn’t just my darling but everyone’s, silly in one breath and serious the next, equally devoted to haute couture and Marxist theory. From the moment our mutual friend introduced us, I kept waiting for that feeling of certainty to overtake me.
当我认识我研究生院的女朋友时，我有充分的理由相信她可能就是我要找的人。她不仅仅是我的挚爱，也是所有人的挚爱，她可以在这一刻还天真烂漫而下一刻就神情严肃，她也可以对“高级订制”和“马克思主义”有同样的热情。从我们的共同好友介绍我们认识的那一刻起，我一直在等待那种“就是她了”的感觉降临到我身上。
Nine months later, I was as happy as I had ever been while still paralyzed by doubt.
9个月的时间里，我从来没感觉这么开心过但同时也仍然被我的疑惑控制着。
Maybe because we live in an age of so many choices, most of them meaningless, we romanticize the notion that falling in love isn’t a choice but something that happens to us. That love tells us what to do, not the other way around. Love is the authority figure, and if love tells us wrongly, then we can’t be held fully responsible.
也许是因为我们生活在一个选择多多的时代，而大多数的选择都是毫无意义的，我们总是喜欢沉醉于浪漫主意的幻想中，认为坠入爱河不是一种选择而是会自然而然地发生在我们身上的事。爱会告诉我们如何去做，而不是反过来。爱的手中掌握着权柄，而且如果爱告诉我们错误的信息，那么我们也不用为此负全责。
I had traveled halfway around the world with a half-ring secreted in my bag. I had decided on the cut of diamond I would buy in Singapore, picked out the place and the time I would present it. I did so not because I was sure I would follow through. I simply wanted to give “just knowing” its best shot in the perfect place with the right ring. If love failed to show its authority when the time came, I might have to move on without feeling sure, one way or another.
我穿越了半个地球，包里掩掩藏藏的装着一个半成品戒指。我已经想好了我要在新加坡买有怎样切工的钻石，选好了一个时间地点把钻石给她看。我这么做不是因为我坚信我会按这个计划行事。我只是想在完美的时机时用正确的戒指给“我就是知道”一次最好的表现机会。如果爱没有在恰当的时候显示出权威，不管怎样，我或许仍会在不确信的情况下继续着我的计划。
Now, a real-life authority figure had arrived in the form of this Singaporean customs officer who would yank the ring out of my bag at any minute, forcing me to explain myself to my girlfriend and confess my plans. My years of indecision would end, I thought gleefully. What a funny story to tell our children, once we got out of prison.
现在，一个现实生活中的权威形象以新加坡海关官员的身份来到了我的面前。他随时都有可能从我的包里抽出我的戒指，逼着我向我女朋友解释我的计划。这样我多年的犹豫不决也就到头了，我高兴的想着。当我们从监狱里出来后，这会是一个可以讲给我们孩子听的精彩故事。
Instead, the customs officer started putting our things away. “Smuggling cigarettes is a crime,” he said.
然而这一切并没有发生，海关职员开始把我们的东西放回去了。“走私香烟可是犯罪，”他说。
“Please,” my girlfriend pleaded. “I didn’t know.”
“拜托，”我女朋友哀求道，“我不知道。”
“You’re Singaporean,” he replied. “You should know better.”
“你是新加坡人，”他回答道。“你对此更应有所了解。”
The officer counted out the 20 packs of cigarettes and told us we would be fined 100 Singaporean dollars for each. For two graduate students, it was a staggering sum. We begged, pointlessly. Nearly two decades earlier, when an American teenager in Singapore was sentenced for committing vandalism, not even an appeal from President Clinton could prevent his caning. But at least we weren’t going to jail.
海关职员数出20包香烟后告诉我们每包香烟要罚100新币。对于两个研究生来说，那是非常大的一笔钱。我们恳求，虽然完全没有用。大概20年前，当一个美国的青年在新加坡因毁坏公物被判刑时，就连克林顿总统亲自的请愿也没能让他避免鞭刑的惩罚。但我们至少不用去坐牢了。
My girlfriend was less than elated, however. She fell to her knees, bursting into tears, pleading for clemency. All year she had saved what she could of her meager graduate student stipend, and now she wouldn’t be able to present her parents with the cash-filled red envelope customarily exchanged at Chinese family reunions.
然而我的女朋友可没这么高兴。她双膝下跪，痛哭流涕地恳求从宽处理。一整年下来她都尽她所能省下她的研究生津贴，不过在这之后她没法给她父母装满钱的红包了，这是一个华人社会里家庭团聚时的传统。
“I’ve been away for years,” she pleaded.
“我好多年都没回来了，”她恳求道。
The officer shook his head.
官员还是摇了摇头。
I wanted to be angry at him and his colleague, who was now shredding my girlfriend’s Marlboros one pack at a time, but I felt a grudging respect for his integrity. In many countries, the contraband may have ended up in someone’s pocket.
我不禁想对他和他的同事发火，他们现在已经开始一包一包的撕毁我女朋友的万宝路香烟。但是同时我又不得不对他们的正直为人感到尊敬。因为在许多国家，这些违禁商品可能就进了某些人的口袋里了。
My only way of comforting my girlfriend was to put the fine on my credit card. I couldn’t tell her what such an expense meant, that I could no longer afford the diamond or the hotel room in Bali.
我唯一能安抚我女朋友的办法就是把这笔罚款放到我的信用卡上。我没法告诉她这样的一笔开销意味着什么：既没钱买钻石，也负担不起巴厘岛的酒店了。
A few minutes later, we finally reached the arrival lobby. My girlfriend introduced me to her family, who were wonderfully warm but curious why we had been detained. My girlfriend lied, telling them the cigarettes were for a friend, leaving out the outrageous fine.
几分钟后，我们终于抵达了到达厅。我女朋友把我介绍给她的家人，他们待我非常热情亲切，但也很好奇我们为什么被扣留了。我女朋友撒了个谎，告诉他们香烟是给一个朋友买的，也没说我们被罚一大笔钱的事。
When we got back to her family’s apartment, we were so exhausted from our ordeal that we headed straight to her room, collapsing on the single bed that was hers as a child. But we were too upset to sleep. The trip wasn’t turning out as either of us had planned.
当我们回到她家的公寓时，我们由于刚才痛苦的经历疲倦至极，直接就去了她的房间，瘫倒在那张她儿童时代就已经在用的单人床上。但我们也沮丧的难以入睡。这个旅行并没有按照我们任何一人的计划来发展。
We were now deeply in debt and unlikely to go anywhere. There would be no grand proposal in a rose-petal-strewn room overlooking the terraced rice paddies of Ubud. Instead, there was only my girlfriend’s childhood room and a bed barely big enough for one of us, much less two.
我们当时负债累累而且也没什么可能去任何地方玩了。我也不会在地板上撒满玫瑰花瓣，遥望着乌布村水稻梯田的房间里举行盛大的求婚仪式了。相反的，我们只有我女朋友儿时的房间和一个连一个人都躺不下的床，更别说两个人了。
“You wish we hadn’t come,” she said, sensing my mood.
“你觉得我们还不如不来呢，”她说，感觉到我的心情有些不对。
“Not at all.” I was thinking of how I had felt when I believed the customs officer was going to expose me, how eager I had been for him to do it and how disappointed I felt when he failed to uncover the ring.
“完全没有。”我脑子里想的是我在以为海关职员要揭穿我时的心情，我是多么迫切的希望他能揭穿我啊，以及我在他没有发现那个戒指后的失望之情。
It was a tortuous approach to absolute certainty, but I decided to take it.
在我需要百分之百确定的情况下这是一个十分折磨人的方法，但我还是决定要抓住这个机会。
Dangling an arm off the bed, I pulled the half-ring out of the zippered pocket and showed it to her. “I’m sorry there’s no diamond yet,” I said. “I was going to buy one here and have it put in, and then give this to you in a fancy hotel in Bali. But, will you marry me?”
我的一只手臂在床外摇晃着，我从带拉链的口袋里掏出了那个还是个半成品的戒指，放到她面前。“我很抱歉这上面还没有钻石，”我说。“我本来要在这买一个放上去，然后在巴厘岛一个高档的酒店里把这给你的。不过，你愿意嫁给我吗？”
She started to cry. “Yes.”
她喜极而泣。“我愿意。”
It has been six years. I have never once regretted it.
六年已经过去了，我从没因此后悔过。