WASHINGTON — Otto F. Warmbier, a U.S. college student held prisoner in North Korea for more than a year, has been medically evacuated from the reclusive country in a coma and is on his way back to the United States, according to a statement from his parents.
华盛顿——在朝鲜被关押一年多的美国大学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)在昏迷中从这个与世隔绝的国家被医疗后送，正在返回美国的路上，该消息来自他父母发表的一份声明。
“We want the world to know how we and our son have been brutalized and terrorized by the pariah regime” in North Korea, Fred and Cindy Warmbier said in a statement to The Associated Press. They said they were grateful that their son, who was detained last year while traveling as a tourist, would “finally be with people who love him.”
“我们想让世界知道，我们和我们的儿子”在朝鲜“如何受到这个遭人唾弃政权的残酷对待与恐吓威胁，”弗雷德与辛迪·瓦姆比尔(Fred and Cindy Warmbier)夫妇在给美联社的一份声明中说。他们表示，对于去年旅游期间遭扣押的儿子“最终能回到爱他的人身边”，他们心存感激。
Warmbier, 23, has been in a coma for “over a year now and urgently needs proper medical care,” said Bill Richardson, the former governor of New Mexico, who has been in touch with the Warmbier family and has served periodically as a negotiator with the North Korean government.
23岁的瓦姆比尔已经昏迷了“一年多，急需接受适当的医疗护理”，前新墨西哥州州长比尔·理查森(Bill Richardson)说道，他一直与瓦姆比尔一家保持联系，定期代表他们与朝鲜政府谈判。
A senior U.S. official said it was only in recent weeks that the United States obtained intelligence reports indicating that Warmbier had been repeatedly beaten while in North Korean custody. The official, who was not authorized to publicly discuss intelligence and spoke on the condition of anonymity, said there had been concerns that Warmbier had died as a result of the beatings.
一名美国高层官员表示，直到最近几周，美国才获得情报，瓦姆比尔在朝鲜被关押期间反复遭到殴打。这名没有被授权公开谈论情报信息因而选择匿名的官员表示，之前外界曾担心瓦姆比尔已被打死。
Warmbier was in fact alive, and his release Tuesday followed an extraordinary period of clandestine negotiations between U.S. and North Korean officials in Oslo, Norway, and New York. The talks intensified last month after a representative from Sweden, which acts as an interlocutor between Washington and Pyongyang, was granted visitation rights to one of three other Americans held in North Korea.
实际上，瓦姆比尔还活着。在他于周二获释之前，美国和朝鲜官员在挪威奥斯陆和纽约进行了一段时间的特别秘密谈判。在一名瑞典代表——作为华盛顿和平壤之间的中间对话者——获准探视被扣押在朝鲜的其他三个美国人中的一个后，两国加大了谈判力度。
U.S. officials learned of Warmbier’s medical condition last week during a meeting with a North Korean official, and by Monday, a U.S. delegation including a medical team had arrived in Pyongyang to bring him home, according to an account provided by the State Department. After two doctors visited Warmbier, a U.S. official demanded his release on humanitarian grounds, the State Department said, and he was evacuated Tuesday.
依据美国国务院的说法，美国官员是在上周与一名朝鲜官员会谈期间获知瓦姆比尔的身体状况，为了将他带回国，一个包括医疗队在内的美国代表团于周一抵达平壤。国务院表示，在两名医生探视了瓦姆比尔之后，一名美国官员要求基于人道主义立场将其释放，周二他获准后送。
Secretary of State Rex Tillerson issued a statement Tuesday announcing the release of Warmbier, a University of Virginia student who had been sentenced to a 15-year prison term for trying to steal a propaganda poster in January 2016.
周二，美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex Tillerson)发表了一份声明，宣布弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)学生瓦姆比尔获释。他是在2016年1月被朝鲜以试图窃取一份宣传海报的罪由判处了15年监禁。
People close to the negotiations that led to Warmbier’s release said he had traveled from Japan to Anchorage, Alaska. There, the plane carrying him would refuel and continue on to Cincinnati, where his parents live.
了解瓦姆比尔获释谈判的人士表示，他先是从日本送往阿拉斯加的安克雷奇。运送瓦姆比尔的飞机在那里加油后，将继续飞往他父母所在的辛辛那提。
Tillerson did not provide any details about the negotiations. But according to a senior State Department official, the process escalated in May, after Sweden was granted visitation rights to a different U.S. detainee, and the North Koreans urgently requested a meeting with U.S. officials.
蒂勒森没有提供谈判细节。但据一名国务院高层官员透露，谈判在今年5月加速，此前瑞典获准探视另外一名被关押的美国人，朝鲜方面也紧急要求与美国官员举行会面。
Joseph Yun, a State Department envoy for North Korea, met with North Korea’s ambassador to the United Nations in New York on June 6, the State Department official said, and that is when the Americans learned of Wambier’s condition.
这名国务院官员表示，国务院的朝鲜政策特别代表尹汝尚(Joseph Yun)在6月6日与朝鲜驻联合国大使在纽约会面。美国人就是在那个时候得知了瓦姆比尔的身体状况。
After consulting with President Donald Trump, Tillerson sent Yun to North Korea to obtain Warmbier’s release and informed Pyongyang that a U.S. delegation would be traveling there.
在与唐纳德·特朗普商议之后，蒂勒森派尹汝尚去朝鲜争取瓦姆比尔的获释，并通知平壤一支美国代表团将前往那里。
Warmbier’s evacuation was announced while Dennis Rodman — a former professional basketball player who has relationships with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un, and with Trump — was visiting North Korea. Rodman appeared on Trump’s “Celebrity Apprentice” in 2009 and also traveled to North Korea in 2013.
瓦姆比尔获得后送的消息是在前职业篮球选手丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)访问朝鲜期间宣布的，后者与朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong Un)和特朗普关系都不错。罗德曼曾在2009年参加特朗普的真人秀节目《名人学徒》(Celebrity Apprentice)，之前曾在2013年访问过一次朝鲜。
But a State Department spokeswoman, Heather Nauert, said Tuesday, “Dennis Rodman did not have anything to do with the release of Otto Warmbier.”
但国务院发言人希瑟·诺尔特(Heather Nauert)周二表示，“丹尼斯·罗德曼与奥托·瓦姆比尔的获释没有任何关系。”
Sen. Rob Portman, R-Ohio, said, “Otto’s detainment and sentence was unnecessary and appalling, and North Korea should be universally condemned for its abhorrent behavior.”
俄亥俄州共和党参议员罗布·波特曼(Rob Portman)表示，“奥托被拘押和判刑是没理由的，此举极其恶劣，朝鲜应该为这种可恶的行径遭到普遍谴责。”
A senior aide to Portman said the senator had been working for months to secure Warmbier’s release, consulting Trump, Tillerson, Richardson and John Kerry, the former secretary of state.
波特曼的一位高级助手表示，为了瓦姆比尔的获释，这位参议员忙碌了数个月，曾与特朗普、蒂勒森、理查森和前国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)商讨此事。
Warmbier visited North Korea on a group tour last year. He was about to board a flight home when he was detained.
瓦姆比尔去年跟随一个旅行团到朝鲜旅行。在准备登上返程飞机时，遭到扣押。
In a tearful news conference in Pyongyang after his arrest, Warmbier said he had stolen the poster because an acquaintance had offered to give him a used car worth $10,000 in exchange for it. “I made the worst mistake of my life,” he said. It is unclear whether his statement was genuine or coerced.
在被捕后于平壤举行的一场新闻发布会上，瓦姆比尔流着泪表示，他偷了一张海报，因为有一个熟人说会给他一辆价值1万美元的二手车作为交换。“我犯了一生中最大的错误，”他说。目前还不清楚，他的声明是真实的，还是被胁迫的结果。
Hours after video of the news conference emerged, the Obama administration announced broad new sanctions against North Korea.
这场新闻发布会的视频出现几小时后，奥巴马政府宣布对朝鲜实施广泛的新制裁。
The last time Warmbier was seen in public was in a video taken at his trial in March 2016, in which he appeared dazed and seemingly had to be carried by North Korean soldiers.
瓦姆比尔上一次出现在公众视野是在他2016年3月受审的视频中，当时他看起来有些神志不清，似乎必须由朝鲜士兵搀扶着行走。
The State Department has repeatedly warned citizens not to visit North Korea, which has detained a host of Americans over the years on a variety of charges. At least three other Americans remain in detention there.
国务院曾多次警告美国公民不要去朝鲜，该国在过去数年以各种各样的理由扣押了不少美国人。目前至少还有三名美国人被监禁在那里。
Information about Warmbier’s condition and detention had been impossible to come by until now. Before last month, his last consular visit from Swedish diplomats had been in March 2016, according to Suzanne DiMaggio, a director and senior fellow at New America, a research institute in Washington, who participated in talks with North Korea in Oslo in May.
有关瓦姆比尔身体状况和监禁情况在此前是不可能被知晓的。在上月之前，瑞典外交官最近一次对他进行领事探访是在2016年3月，该消息来自华盛顿的研究机构新美国(New America)的主管、高级研究员苏珊娜·迪马乔(Suzanne DiMaggio)，这家机构参与了今年5月在奥斯陆与朝鲜的谈判。
Keeping Warmbier isolated for so long was initially seen as retaliation for the sanctions issued in July 2016 against Kim. Now, it seems likely that it was an effort to conceal the state of Warmbier’s health, DiMaggio said.
将瓦姆比尔隔离这么久，最初被看作朝鲜对2016年7月公布的针对金正恩的制裁措施的报复。迪马乔说，现在看来，此举似乎是为了隐瞒瓦姆比尔的健康状况。