ALL her life, Jane Jeong Trenka struggled to belong.
郑敬娥(Jane Jeong Trenka)一生都在为自己的归属感苦恼。
Born in South Korea in 1972, she and her sister were adopted by an American family and raised in a Minnesota town populated by the descendants of German and Scandinavian immigrants, where Lutheran churches rose above the cornfields.
郑敬娥1972年出生于韩国，随后和姐姐一起被一个美国家庭收养，在明尼苏达州的一个小镇长大。镇上的居民是德国和斯堪的纳维亚移民的后代，在这里，路德教教堂俯瞰着玉米地。
In elementary school, Ms. Trenka says she was taunted by boys who spat racial slurs at her, causing her so much anxiety that she began throwing up during the bus ride to school. Later, after she brought a boy home for the first time, a Laotian from the only Asian family in town, she said her father made a joke about his name that she considered racist.
郑敬娥说，读小学的时候，她曾遭一群男孩的种族歧视性羞辱。这让她如此焦虑，以至于她在搭乘巴士上学的途中呕吐。后来，她第一次带男孩回家。男孩来自镇上唯一的亚裔家庭，是老挝人。养父取笑了他的名字，而她认为这个玩笑带有种族歧视色彩。
Smoldering with anger — and consumed by “self-loathing” for her Asian heritage — she scratched her Korean name, Kyong-ah, into her bedroom wall with a thumbtack. Then she covered it with a bulletin board so her parents would not know. When it came time for college, she checked “white” on all her college forms in what she now calls an act of self-deception.
她怒火中烧，同时内心充满了对亚裔出身的“自我憎恶”情绪。她在卧室的墙上用图钉划出自己的韩文名字“敬娥”(Kyong-ah)，再用一块张布告牌盖住，不让养父母看到。上大学时，她在学校要求填写的所有表格上，都把“种族”那项勾选成“白人”。如今回忆起来，她觉得那是一种自欺欺人的行为。
It was that emotional conflict over identity that eventually led Ms. Trenka to upend her life, move back to South Korea and help lead a successful campaign with fellow adoptees to fundamentally change the way Koreans think about adoption. The landmark legislation they championed for the first time takes concrete steps to deal with the root causes of South Korea’s longstanding reputation as one of the world’s leading “baby exporters” — society’s deep prejudice against single mothers and against domestic adoptions thought to sully all-important family bloodlines.
正是这种对身份认同的情感挣扎，最终促使郑敬娥彻底改变人生道路，回到韩国定居，并与其他被收养者一起，成功发起一场宣传活动，从根本上改变了韩国人对收养的观念。他们倡导的里程碑式的立法首次规定具体措施，来应对韩国长期具有世界最大“婴儿出口国”之一名声的根本原因：韩国社会对单身母亲和国内收养抱有深层次的偏见，认为收养会玷污至关重要的家族血脉。
The law stipulates for the first time that the government should reduce overseas adoptions of Korean children. It not only provides child-care stipends to encourage more Koreans to adopt and to support single women who want to keep their children, but it also requires mothers to live with their babies for a week and receive counseling about the option of keeping them, before they relinquish custody.
这项法律首次规定：政府应减少海外收养韩国小孩的人数。它不仅提供育儿津贴来鼓励更多的韩国人进行收养，并支持那些想要自己扶养子女的单身女性，还要求母亲在放弃扶养之前，先要和自己的宝宝同住一周，并接受辅导，了解自己扶养孩子的选项。
“I spent the first 40 years of my life as an adoptee, and Korea really hasn’t changed much about its adoption system,” Ms. Trenka, 41, said recently. “Do I want to spend the second half of my life letting these people get away with the damaging practices that created the first part of my life?”
“在前半生的40年里，我是一名被收养者，而韩国政府一直没有对收养制度进行多少真正的改革，”41岁的郑敬娥最近说。“难道我还想虚度后半生，让这些人继续从事造就了我的前半生的那种破坏行径吗？”
Her struggle continues for more transparency in adoption proceedings that have been opaque for decades, in large part to protect unmarried women who have often faced the stark choice of secretly giving up their babies for adoption or enduring a social stigma. But experts say that wall of protection also allowed some abuses, including putting some children up for adoption whose parents might have only sought temporary shelter for them in orphanages.
她继续在为提高收养程序的透明度而斗争，这些程序几十年来一直不透明，在很大程度上是为了保护未婚母亲。她们往往面临一个严峻的选择：要么将孩子秘密送去收养，要么遭受社会的羞辱。不过，专家们认为，这种保护墙也会造成一些弊端，比如让某些小孩被收养，而他们的父母或许仅仅是想让孤儿院暂时收容他们。
Ms. Trenka’s long road from international adoptee to activist began, she now believes, with a lie.
郑敬娥如今认为，她从一名海外被收养者演变为活动人士的漫长路途始于一个谎言。
SHE says her adoptive parents, who had no children, were told that her birth mother was an irresponsible unwed woman who had abandoned her and her sister. She was only an infant, and her sister was 4.
她说，没有亲生小孩的养父母被告知，她的生母是一名不负责任的未婚女性，遗弃了她和姐姐。当时她还只是一个婴儿，而姐姐只有4岁。
She was in her 20s when she finally met her birth mother and her family, she said, and they told a radically different story. The main reason she was put up for adoption, they said, was that her impoverished birth mother’s husband suspected that she was not his child and tried to smother her with a blanket before demanding that she be sent away. (It is less clear why her sister was given up.)
郑敬娥20多岁的时候终于见到了生母及其家人。她说，他们口中的故事大相径庭。他们表示，她之所以被送去收养，主要是因为贫穷的生母被丈夫怀疑，这不是他的孩子。他先是试图用毛毯把她闷死，后又要求把她送走。（至于她姐姐为何被送走，原因不甚明朗。）
But once the two girls were gone, relatives said, Ms. Trenka’s birth mother became so distraught, she began carrying a dog the same way Koreans carry children, by securing it to her back with a blanket. She was so bereft, she managed to get the adoption agency to give her the name and address of the family that had adopted the girls.
亲戚们说，两个女儿一离开，郑敬娥的生母就变得非常沮丧，她开始像韩国人背小孩一样背着一条狗，也就是把狗包在毯子里背在身后。失落万分的她，设法让收养机构告诉她收养两个女儿的家庭的姓名和地址。
Less than three months later, she scraped together what little money she had to send traditional dresses, or hanbok, for the girls and their adoptive mother. She later sent at least two letters, which Ms. Trenka believes did not reveal the real reason for the adoption but asked about the girls’ well-being.
不到三个月后，她用省下来的一点钱给女儿和她们的养母寄去了传统服装韩服。她后来又寄去了至少两封信，郑敬娥相信，信中并没有透露收养的真实原因，只是问候了两个女孩的健康。
Although she says her adoptive parents were also victims of the Korean agency’s deception, she believes the letters should have prompted them to question the claims of abandonment. Instead, she said, they answered her early questions about her birth mother by saying that they did not know why she had been unable to care for her girls, but that they would see her in heaven. Even when she found the letters, she said, her adoptive parents did little to help her connect with her birth family, leading to an estrangement that lasted for years.
尽管郑敬娥称，养父母也是韩国收养机构的受害者，但她认为，这些信件应当促使他们质疑遗弃的说法。她称，在她幼年时，养父母在回答她关于生母问题的时候说，他们不知道她的生母为何没能养育自己的两个女儿，不过她们会在天堂与她相会。郑敬娥还说，即便是她发现信件后，养父母也没做什么来帮助她与亲生家庭建立联系。这导致她与养父母疏远多年。
Her adoptive mother, reached by phone this week, declined to comment. Her sister, Ms. Trenka says, regards their adoption differently and stays in touch with their parents.
通过电话，我们本周联络到了她的养母，不过她拒绝置评。郑敬娥说，姐姐对收养一事另有看法，与父母一直有联系。
For Ms. Trenka, the much-longed-for meeting with her birth mother did not happen until she was 23 and had qualified for a credit card that allowed her to charge her trip. Separated by language, mother and daughter communicated through a translator. Her Korean mother, then 62, asked for her daughter’s forgiveness and bared her breasts to prove that she had breast-fed the two girls before they were separated.
对郑敬娥而言，直到23岁有资格申请信用卡之后，她才依靠刷卡前往韩国，终于实现了渴望已久的与生母的会面。母女二人语言不通，借助翻译交流。当时62岁的韩国生母请求女儿的原谅，并且袒露胸部来证明自己与两个女儿分离前曾用母乳喂养她们。
Over the next five years, Ms. Trenka returned several times, before her birth mother died of cancer in 2000. They did not speak each other’s language, but Ms. Trenka said it was enough just to be with her. She slowly began to drift from the life she knew in Minnesota, eventually divorcing her American husband and writing two memoirs that connected her with other adoptees who shared her conviction that they had deserved better from their birth country.
之后的五年，郑敬娥数次返回韩国，直到生母2000年因癌症去世。她们不会说对方的语言，但郑敬娥说，只要在一起，就已足够。她开始与熟悉的明尼苏达生活渐行渐远，最终与美国丈夫离了婚，并且撰写了两本回忆录。这些书使她和其他一些被收养者建立联系，他们都深信，自己本应在韩国得到更好的对待。
Five years after her birth mother’s death, she left her job as a piano teacher and the sister she loves and moved to Korea.
生母去世五年后，郑敬娥辞去了钢琴教师一职，离开心爱的姐姐，移居到韩国。
By then, South Korea was beginning to change its stance on adoption. As the country became the world’s latest economic miracle, the government slowly began to whittle down the number of international adoptions that many saw as a national shame. Still, experts say the government was unwilling to take needed steps until it was forced to by Ms. Trenka and her fellow adoptees, who were joined in their campaign by unwed mothers. They tirelessly lobbied lawmakers, wrote blogs, held protests and filed complaints with the human rights commission.
那时，韩国已开始改变在收养问题上的立场。随着韩国成为世界经济奇迹，政府开始逐渐削减国际收养的人数，因为许多人视之为国家的耻辱。不过，专家表示，政府仍不愿采取必要的措施，直到郑敬娥等被收养者和未婚母亲一起奔走，迫使政府这样做。他们不厌其烦地游说议员、撰写博客、进行抗议活动，并向人权委员会提交申诉。
Unlike Ms. Trenka, some adoptees considered their experience a success, but still felt the country should work harder to keep its children or make the adoption process more transparent.
与郑敬娥不同，一些被收养者认为他们的经历是成功的，不过还是觉得国家应更加努力，把本国的孩子留下，或者改革收养程序，使之更加透明。
Critics worry that the new law has raced ahead of reality, slowing the adoption process for the many children for whom no Korean families can be found. But others say the law is long overdue and commend Ms. Trenka and her allies.
批评者担心，新的法律超前于现实，对很多找不到韩国收养家庭的孩子减慢收养过程。但另一些人表示，早就应该出台这样的法律，郑敬娥和她的盟友值得称赞。
These days, Ms. Trenka, who now speaks Korean, is pursuing a degree in public administration at Seoul National University to arm herself for her next major campaign: pushing to make the country’s birth registration system more transparent to make it easier for adoptees to trace their origins.
郑敬娥现在会讲韩语，她正在首尔大学(Seoul National University)攻读公共管理学位，从而为下一场大活动做准备，那就是促使韩国的出生登记系统更透明，以便被收养者更容易追溯自己的出身。
But even now, she remains stuck between two cultures.
不过，就算是现在，她还是夹在两种文化之间左右为难。
“In a country where ‘American’ is used synonymously with ‘white,’ my inability to speak fluent Korean combined with my inability to be white is a deformity,” she wrote in one of her memoirs. “I am a sort of monster, a mix of the familiar with the terribly unexpected, like a fish with a human face.”
她在一本回忆录中写道，“在韩国，‘美国人’等同于‘白人’，而我既不能说流利的韩语，又不是白人，这让我不伦不类。我差不多是个怪胎，是熟悉与意外的混合体，就像一条长着人脸的鱼。”
She keeps in touch with her sister in the United States, but has not seen her adoptive parents since 2004. Even so, she said she sometimes finds herself missing them.
郑敬娥和在美国的姐姐保持着联系，但2004年后就没见过养父母。虽说如此，她说自己有时还是会想念他们。
She calls South Korea her “unrequited love,” but said she was here to stay. “The Koreans have a saying,” she said, “that a fox goes back to where he was born to die.”
她把韩国称为自己的“单恋”，但还是准备留在这里。“韩国有句老话，狐狸在死前会返回出生的地方，”她说。