SEOUL, South Korea — A South Korean student at New York University who is being held by North Korea said in an interview broadcast on Tuesday that he had entered the reclusive country intending to be arrested, and that he had hoped to bring about better relations between the two Koreas by doing so.
韩国首尔——被朝鲜扣留的纽约大学(New York University)韩国学生在周二播出的采访中表示，他进入这个封闭国家的目的便是想要遭到逮捕，并且希望能借此实现韩朝关系的改善。
The student, Joo Won-moon, told CNN he had thought that by entering North Korea, “some great event could happen and hopefully that event could have a good effect on the relations” between the North and South. Mr. Joo, 21, who acknowledged entering the country illegally, said he was uncertain what the nature of that “great event” would be.
名为朱元文（Joo Won-moon ，音）的这位学生向CNN表示，他认为进入朝鲜可以引发“重大事件，并且希望这一事件能够改善”南北关系。朱元文今年21岁，承认自己是非法入境。他表示，并不确定自己口中的“重大事件”会是什么性质。
Mr. Joo, who smiled and seemed at ease, said he was being treated well in detention. The interview was conducted at a hotel in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, according to CNN.
朱元文带着微笑、表情自然地说，他被拘期间受到了良好对待。CNN表示，采访地点位于朝鲜首都平壤的一间旅馆。
Whether Mr. Joo was speaking freely could not be determined. Though CNN said in an article on its website that North Korean government representatives had arranged the interview, the article did not specify whether representatives were present while it was conducted, as they have been during interviews with other detainees in Pyongyang by foreign news organizations.
朱元文是否得以自由发言，则不得而知。CNN在旗下网站的文章中表示，此次采访由朝鲜政府的代表安排，不过文中并未提到这些代表是否如同其他被拘者接受国外媒体采访时一样身处现场。
North Korea announced on Saturday that Mr. Joo had been arrested on April 22 while illegally entering the country from China. It said Mr. Joo had admitted to violating North Korean law, but it did not specify what charges he might face.
朝鲜在周六宣布，由于从中国非法入境，朱元文在4月22日被捕。声明中称朱元文承认违反朝鲜法律，但并未说明会用什么罪名指控他。
Mr. Joo, a South Korean citizen, has permanent resident status in the United States. He told CNN that he had taken a semester off from college to travel across the United States, and that he had entered North Korea after an unsuccessful attempt to find work in California.
朱元文是拥有美国永久居民身分的韩国公民。他向CNN表示，为了进行穿越美国的旅行，他从大学休学一学期。试图在加州求职未果后，他才进入朝鲜。
“Once the thought of entering the D.P.R.K. seeped into my mind, I couldn’t really escape it,” he said, using an acronym for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the North’s formal name.
“自从有了进入朝鲜的念头，这个想法就在我脑中挥之不去，”他在发言中使用了朝鲜的正式名称，也就是朝鲜民主主义人民共和国(Democratic People’s Republic of Korea)的缩写。
“I guess I constantly thought about it,” Mr. Joo said. “I thought that as an American permanent resident and South Korean citizen that my entrance could have some good effect.”
“我想，自己一直在考虑这件事，”朱元文说。“我以为，美国永久居民与韩国公民的身分，可能会让我的入境行为有一些好的影响。”
Mr. Joo said he had not spoken to his parents, or to representatives of the South Korean or American governments. “Of course, I understand my parents and my loved ones are worrying a lot about me,” he said. “But I would like to say that I’m well and there’s no need to worry because the people here have treated me with the best of humanitarian treatment.”
朱元文表示他尚未与父母通话，也未与韩国或美国政府的代表取得联络。“当然，我可以理解父母与亲人现在很担心我，”他说。“但我想说我很好。这里的人在用最人道的方式对待我，所以不用担心。”
In the past, North Korea has allowed foreign news organizations to interview those American detainees who have said they were being treated well and have asked the United States government to talk to Pyongyang to seek their release.
过去，朝鲜允许国外媒体采访美籍被拘者时，他们也会表示自己受到良好对待，并提请美国政府与平壤当局会谈，以寻求释放他们。
North Korea, which has no diplomatic ties with the United States, wants Washington to engage in dialogue over its nuclear weapons programs and negotiate a peace treaty to formally end the Korean War, which was halted with a truce in 1953.
朝鲜与美国没有外交关系，但希望华盛顿能与自己进行对话，讨论它的核武器计划，以及正式终结朝鲜战争的和平条约。这场战争以停战的形式于1953年中止。