SEOUL, South Korea — A Korean-American missionary who has been jailed in North Korea for more than a year appeared at a news conference in Pyongyang on Monday and appealed to the United States government to negotiate with Pyongyang to secure his release.
韩国首尔——周一，一位在朝鲜关押了一年多的韩裔美国传教士出现在平壤的一场新闻发布会上，请求美国政府与平壤谈判，确保他获释。
“I believe that my problem can be solved by close cooperation and agreement between the American government and the government of this country,” the Christian missionary, Kenneth Bae, was quoted as saying in an Associated Press dispatch from the North Korean capital.
“我相信，通过美国政府与这个国家的政府达成紧密合作与共识，我的问题能够得到解决，”美联社(Associated Press)发自朝鲜首都的一则报道援引基督教传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)的话说。
Mr. Bae, 45, wearing a gray cap and uniform with the number 103 on his chest, said that the news conference, attended by The A.P., Xinhua and a few other foreign news media outlets in Pyongyang, was called at his request.
45岁的肯尼斯·裴头戴一顶灰色的帽子，身穿灰色囚服，胸前印着编号103，他说这场新闻发布会是应他的要求召开。美联社、新华社等数家外国新闻媒体出席了在平壤召开的这场发布会。
He said he had apologized for the anti-North Korean acts he committed and that he had not been treated badly in confinement, The A.P. reported.
根据美联社的报道，他表示他对自己犯下的反朝鲜罪行已做出道歉，他在关押期间没有受到虐待。
Xinhua, the Chinese news agency, quoted him as saying that he had benefited from “humanitarian” help given to him by the North Korean government.
中国新闻机构新华社援引他的话说，他得到了朝鲜政府给予他的“人道主义”帮助。
But Mr. Bae was under guard while he made these comments, and it was impossible to confirm whether he was speaking his own mind.
但肯尼斯·裴发表此番讲话时有看守在场，无法确认这是否是他的真实想法。
In an interview with a correspondent from a pro-North Korean newspaper in Japan last year, Mr. Bae had made similar appeals, asking Washington to send a high-ranking official to Pyongyang to “apologize” for his crime and help free him.
肯尼斯·裴去年接受了日本一家亲朝报纸的采访，他对记者发出了相似的请求，希望华盛顿能派高级别官员赴平壤，为他的罪行“道歉”，并帮助他获释。
Outside analysts have said that North Korea probably arranged for Mr. Bae to make those comments to outside news media to help focus international attention on his case and force Washington to engage the Pyongyang government. North Korea has also allowed Mr. Bae to send letters to his family and allowed his mother to visit him in October.
外界分析人士表示，可能是朝鲜安排肯尼斯·裴向国外的新闻媒体发表此番讲话，来吸引国际舆论对他关押一事的注意，从而迫使华盛顿与平壤政府接触。朝鲜也允许肯尼斯·裴写信给他的家人，并批准了他的母亲去年10月份去探望他。
Among at least seven Americans held in North Korea since 2009, Mr. Bae is the longest-serving detainee. He was arrested in November 2012 after entering the isolated country through its northeastern city of Rason with a group of visitors.
自2009年以来至少有7位美国人在朝鲜被关押，但肯尼斯·裴是关押时间最长的一位。他于2012年11月随同一队游客从东北部城市罗先进入这座封闭的国家后被捕。
Mr. Bae was a missionary trying to build a covert proselytizing operation in Rason, using a tour business as a front, according to a videotaped sermon he gave at a St. Louis church in 2011.
2011年录下的他在圣路易斯一家教堂的布道视频显示，传教士肯尼斯·裴想要以旅游生意作掩护，在罗先建立地下宣教组织。
In April last year, North Korea’s highest court convicted Mr. Bae of committing “hostile acts” against the country and sent him to a prison camp for 15 years of hard labor. A North Korean government spokesman at the time accused him of plotting to “destroy our system through religious activities against our republic.”
去年4月，朝鲜最高法院认定肯尼斯·裴有反朝“敌对举动”，判处他15年劳动教养。一位朝鲜政府的新闻发言人当时指责他密谋“通过反朝鲜的宗教活动来摧毁我们的体制”。
Mr. Bae was moved to a Pyongyang hospital in August for back pain and other ailments.
8月，肯尼斯·裴因为背疼以及其他疾病被移送到平壤一家医院。
His family and the State Department have repeatedly called for his release on humanitarian grounds, citing his health.
他的家人和美国国务院已多次提及他的健康问题，呼吁朝鲜本着人道主义释放他。
Washington has also criticized North Korea both for the severity of the sentence and for the secrecy of the judicial proceedings against Mr. Bae.
华盛顿也指责朝鲜对肯尼斯·裴量刑过重，司法程序不公开。
In August, North Korea abruptly withdrew a proposal to have an American envoy visit Pyongyang to discuss Mr. Bae’s release.
8月，朝鲜突然取消了一位美国特使赴平壤讨论释放肯尼斯·裴的计划。
Mr. Bae remained in North Korean custody even after the North freed another American detainee in December. Merrill Newman, an 85-year-old Korean War veteran who visited North Korea in October, was released after the North’s state-run news agency released a video of him reading an “apology” for his “hostile acts” during the war and while he was visiting the country. North Korea said it also considered Mr. Newman’s age and health when deciding to free him.
12月，朝鲜释放了关押的另一位美国人，但肯尼斯·裴却一直未能获释。85岁的朝鲜战争老兵梅里尔·纽曼(Merrill Newman)去年10月访问朝鲜。在朝鲜官方新闻机构播放了他朗读一封“道歉信”的视频后他被释放。纽曼在信中为自己在朝鲜战争和访朝期间的“敌对举动”道歉。朝鲜还表示，在决定释放纽曼时，也考虑了他的年纪和健康状况。
Mr. Bae represented a bigger threat than the octogenarian tourist. Although North Korea officially says it guarantees religious freedom, human rights activists have long said that its government cracks down on any influence of Christianity, imposing harsh penalties, including executions, against its citizens convicted of contacting missionaries.
比起那位80多岁的游客，肯尼斯·裴构成的威胁要更大。虽然朝鲜官方表示保障宗教自由，但人权活动人士一直说，朝鲜政府打压任何基督教的影响，对任何被认定与传教士有接触的朝鲜公民施以严酷的刑罚，包括死刑。
Under its new leader, Kim Jong-un, North Korea has called for stepped-up efforts to choke off such outside influences.
在新领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的领导下，朝鲜号召加大对此类外部影响的打压。
After raising tension with a nuclear test and threats of war last year, North Korea has recently begun reaching out to Washington and Seoul for dialogue. North Korea had previously used Americans detained on criminal charges to gain visits by prominent American officials seeking their release, including two former presidents, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton.
去年朝鲜进行了核试验，并威胁发动战争，引发了局势的升级。而近来，它开始试图与华盛顿和首尔沟通，表达对话的意愿。朝鲜曾利用以刑事罪名关押的美国人，促使美国高官访朝寻求他们的释放，其中包括两位前总统吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)和比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)。
Washington has insisted that there will be no serious negotiation with the North until its government shows concrete signs of giving up its program of nuclear weapons development.
华盛顿坚持表示，如果朝鲜政府不做出具体的表态，放弃其核武器发展计划，就不会与朝鲜进行正式的谈判。