A leading Japanese life science researcher and co-author of a stem cell study that was later retracted because of errors and allegations of misconduct has taken his own life, his colleagues said on Tuesday.
日本生命科学研究的一位领军人物自杀身亡，他的同事本周二表示。此人是一篇干细胞研究论文的共同作者，由于被指存在错误和不当行为，该论文后来遭到撤稿。
Yoshiki Sasai, deputy director of the Riken Center for Developmental Biology in Kobe, was a co-author of a highly publicized study claiming that a simple acid bath could turn cells in the body into stem cells, which could one day be used for a wide range of medical treatments.
笹井芳树(Yoshiki Sasai)是日本神户的理研所发育生物学研究中心(RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology)的副主任，也是一篇受到高度关注的研究论文的共同作者；该论文声称，身体细胞在经过一种简单的酸浴刺激后，可以转化为干细胞，这一发现将来可用于多种医疗方法。
But other stem cell experts soon pointed out numerous errors in the two papers on the study published by Nature in January, together with possible examples of plagiarism and images that appeared to be duplicated or manipulated. Early attempts to replicate the study failed. Nature retracted the papers in July.
但是，其他干细胞专家很快指出，《自然》(Nature)今年1月份发表的关于该研究的两篇论文中，不仅存在着大量错误，而且可能还有剽窃痕迹，其图像似有复制或篡改的嫌疑。复制这个研究的早期尝试未获成功，《自然》于7月撤销了这两篇论文。
Riken cleared Dr. Sasai of any direct involvement in the misconduct, which it attributed to the lead author of the papers, Haruko Obokata. Dr. Obokata, a protégée of Dr. Sasai’s and a rare top female scientist in Japan, briefly became a media sensation there for her research, only to become the object of ridicule and intense criticism as the paper’s errors came to light.
RIKEN中心曾为笹井芳树博士洗脱嫌疑，称他没有直接参与任何不当行为，该论文的第一作者小保方晴子(Obokata Haruko)才是责任人。小保方晴子博士是笹井芳树的门生，也是日本罕见的一流女科学家，这些研究令她在媒体上轰动一时，但当论文中的错误曝光后，她遭到了嘲笑和激烈的批评。
But the scandal took a heavy toll on Dr. Sasai, his colleagues said. It also threatened Dr. Sasai’s life work, at the Center for Developmental Biology, which an independent committee has since recommended should be dismantled. Dr. Sasai had played a large part in getting the center off the ground and helping it grow into one of the world’s leading centers of stem cell research.
但这一丑闻给笹井芳树带来了沉重打击，他的同事们说。而且还威胁到了笹井芳树博士的心血结晶，因为一个独立委员会曾在丑闻发生后提议解散理研所的这个中心。笹井芳树不仅在该中心从无到有的过程中发挥了很大作用，而且帮助它发展成为了世界领先的干细胞研究中心之一。
Dr. Sasai was discovered Tuesday morning hanging in a stairwell on the fifth floor of his Kobe research building, according to local media reports. He was taken to a nearby hospital and pronounced dead shortly after 11 a.m., the reports said.
据当地媒体报道，本周二早上，有人发现笹井芳树在其神户科研楼五楼楼梯间上吊自杀，随即将他送往附近医院。上午11时之后不久，医生宣告他不治身亡。
“It’s extremely unfortunate. He did appear a little depressed, but I did not think for one moment that it would come to this,” Shigekazu Saito, another deputy director at the center, told reporters on Tuesday.
“此事极为不幸。他此前确实显得有点沮丧，但我没想到事情会发展到这个地步，”该中心另一位副主任重和斋藤（Shigekazu Saito，音译）本周二告诉记者。
Several letters addressed to Dr. Sasai’s colleagues were found in his briefcase and on his secretary’s desk, according to the public broadcaster NHK. One of the letters was addressed to Dr. Obokata.
日本NHK电视台称，在笹井芳树的公文包里，以及他秘书的办公桌上，人们发现了他写给同事们的几封信。其中一封是写给小保方晴子的。