Adam Crapser was adopted from South Korea nearly four decades ago, but today he languishes in an immigration detention center in Washington State awaiting deportation because his American parents never filed citizenship paperwork for him.
近40年前，身在韩国的亚当·克拉普塞尔(Adam Crapser)被收养，然而现在他却在华盛顿州一家移民拘留中心饱受煎熬，等待被驱逐出境，因为他的美国父母不曾给他办理入籍手续。
Mr. Crapser, 41, built a life in Oregon, got married and raised children but will soon be forced to leave the country in which he has lived since he was 3 for South Korea, where he plans to eventually reunite with his biological mother in a small town three hours outside of Seoul, the capital. His family will remain in the United States temporarily, and they hope to reunite in South Korea.
41岁的克拉普塞尔在俄勒冈州已经建立了自己的生活，他有妻子和孩子，但却很快要被迫离开这个他从三岁就开始居住的国家，前往韩国。他计划在距离韩国首都首尔三小时车程的一个小城镇里和亲生母亲重聚。他的家人会暂时留在美国，他们计划将来在韩国团聚。
“At this point I’m ready to just go back and try to make my life over there,” Mr. Crapser said on Monday night in a telephone interview from Tacoma Northwest Detention Center, a week after a judge denied his final request to stay in the United States. “There’s been some good things that came out of all this, surprisingly.”
“事到如今，我已经做好准备，就这么回去，试着在那边生活，”克拉普塞尔周一晚上在塔科马西北拘留所(Tacoma Northwest Detention Center)接受电话采访时说。一周前，一位法官驳回他最后一次留在美国的申请。“出乎意料的是，这中间也带来一些好事。”
Mr. Crapser’s sanguine attitude toward the wrenching dislocation that looms ahead is thanks in part to the media attention his case has attracted in both the United States and South Korea, he said. A South Korean documentary on his plight and the lives of other Korean adoptees led to his birth mother coming forward.
克拉普塞尔表示，他能对眼前即将发生的令人痛苦的生活变化保持乐观的态度，部分原因在于他的案子同时吸引了美国和韩国媒体的关注。一部有关他的困境和其他韩国被收养者生活的韩国纪录片，促使他的生母主动现身。
“I do have a Korean family back in Korea,” Mr. Crapser said. “They’ve been informed that I am returning. It’s good, and it’s bad. It’s kind of bittersweet.”
“我在韩国的确有家人，”克拉普塞尔说。“他们得到通知，知道我要回去。这是好事，也是坏事。有点苦乐参半。”
That promising development is far from a universal experience, however. His lawyer, Lori Walls, said on Monday that Mr. Crapser’s case illustrates how easy it is for permanent residents to be placed in deportation proceedings, even when they entered the country lawfully as adoptees but were not naturalized by their adoptive parents.
然而，这种能看到希望的事态发展远非一种普遍的经历。他的律师洛里·沃尔斯(Lori Walls)周一表示，克拉普塞尔的案子证明了，永久居民多么容易地被卷入驱逐出境诉讼，尽管他们是作为被收养者以合法身份进入这个国家，只不过养父养母没有给他们入美国国籍。
According to the Adoptee Rights Campaign, an advocacy group, there are about 35,000 people in the United States who were adopted by American couples as children but who do not have citizenship.
据倡导组织被收养人权利运动(Adoptee Rights Campaign)统计，在美国，有大约3.5万人属于被美国夫妇收养但没有获得公民身份的情况。
Mr. Crapser had been living legally in the United States under IR-4 documents given to adopted children, Ms. Walls said. In 2001, the Child Citizenship Act automatically made IR-4 holders citizens, but the law was not retroactive — it did not benefit adoptees who were already legal adults. “Adam was over 18 and so missed the cutoff date,” Ms. Walls said.
沃尔斯表示，克拉普塞尔一直是依据有关被收养子女的IR-4文件合法地生活在美国。2001年生效的《儿童公民法》(Child Citizenship Act)自动赋予了持IR-4身份的人以公民身份，但这部法律没有追溯效力——已经成为合法成年人的被收养者无法从中受益。“亚当当时已经超过18岁，所以不符合截止年龄，”沃尔斯说。
Mr. Crapser said he first spoke to his family in Korea during a series of FaceTime conversations last winter. He communicated with his birth mother through an interpreter because he does not speak Korean. (He said he planned to bring a tourist phrase book with him when he is deported “so I can read signs and stuff.”)
克拉普塞尔表示，去年冬天他先是通过FaceTime和韩国的家人进行了几次视频通话。他和生母通过一名翻译进行交流，因为他不会说韩语。（他说被遣返回去的时候，他计划带上一本旅游词汇书，“这样我就能看懂标牌之类的东西”。）
His American family plans to join him in Korea next year after his wife, a Vietnamese immigrant, becomes a United States citizen. His stepfather in Korea owns a construction company where he hopes to work so he and his family can start a new life, he said.
“That’s hopefully the plan, but it’s not written in stone yet,” he said. “We’re hoping that will end up working out.”
Mr. Crapser’s positive attitude belies the Kafkaesque nature of his life in the United States. The decision to deport him was just the latest trying experience in a span that has been, by any measure, exceptionally difficult.
克拉普塞尔的积极态度，掩盖了他在美国的生活如同卡夫卡小说一般的本质。即将遭遇遣返，只是他经历的最新的难熬之事。而不管以什么标准衡量，他在美国期间的生活都称得上极为艰难。
Mr. Crapser was adopted along with his sister by an American family that physically abused both children, he told The New York Times Magazine for an article that was published in April 2015.
克拉普塞尔曾2015年4月发表在《纽约时报杂志》(The New York Times Magazine)的一篇报道中讲过，他和姐姐最早是被同一个美国家庭收养，期间两个孩子都遭到了养父母的身体虐待。
After six years, that family put both children up for adoption again. They were separated, and Mr. Crapser was adopted by new parents, Thomas and Dolly Crapser, who also abused him. They had several other foster and adopted children whom they also treated brutally. In 1992, they were both convicted of criminal mistreatment and assault, and Thomas Crapser was convicted of sexual abuse.
六年后，这对夫妇再度将两个孩子送养。姐弟俩被分开，克拉普塞尔的新养父母托马斯和多利·克拉普塞尔(Thomas and Dolly Crapser)也虐待他。这对夫妇还有过几次收养经历，那些被他们收养孩子也曾遭到虐待。1992年，这对夫妇被判犯有虐待和人身侵犯罪，托马斯·克拉普塞尔还被判有性虐待行为。
Adam Crapser was kicked out of the Crapser home at 16 and later broke back in to retrieve his personal belongings. He pleaded guilty to burglary and served 25 months in prison.
16岁的时候，亚当·克拉普塞尔被赶出了克拉普塞尔家，为了拿回自己的私人物品，他后来又非法进入了这家的房子。他承认犯下入室盗窃罪，在监狱里服了25个月刑。
More brushes with the law followed. After his release, he was convicted of unlawful possession of a firearm. A couple of misdemeanors followed, and he was later convicted of assault after a fight, The Times magazine reported.
之后又出现了更多与法律冲突的行为。从监狱出来后，他被判定非法持有枪支。据《纽约时报杂志》报道，之后他又犯下一些轻罪，后来因打架被判企图伤害罪。
“Because of the chaotic nature of his upbringing, he was not able to document his status,” Lori Walls, his lawyer, said.
“因为被抚养过程非常混乱，他无法证明自己的身份，”他的律师洛里·沃尔斯说。
Mr. Crapser said he did not realize there was a difference between being a permanent resident and a citizen until he was reunited with his sister, a naturalized citizen, in 2012.
克拉普塞尔表示，直到2012年和已经获得美国公民身份的姐姐团聚，他才意识到做一名永久居民和一名公民之间是有差别的。
Deportation proceedings began that year, shortly after he applied for residency documents and the authorities learned about his criminal record. The final decision was made on Oct. 24 at an immigration court in Tacoma, Ms. Walls said. Mr. Crapser said Monday that he expected to be deported within the next 30 days.
遣返程序就始于那一年，在他申请居住权证明被当局发现他的犯罪记录之后不久。沃尔斯表示，塔科马的一个移民法庭在10月24日做出了最后的裁决。克拉普塞尔周一表示，他可能会在30天内被遣返。
Mr. Crapser had never held down a steady job for more than 90 days because he could never prove his legal status, he said, something he always chalked up to a chaotic childhood. “I pretty much had to work under the table for most of my life,” he said.
克拉普塞尔说自己做一份稳定工作的时间从来没有超过90天，因为他无法证明自己的合法身份，他总是把这归因于混乱的童年。“在人生的大部分时间里，我基本上都必须偷偷摸摸地工作，”他说。
He hoped his fortunes might finally turn around in South Korea.
他希望自己的命运最终能在韩国好转。
“I guess in a sense the good thing is that I am a citizen of Korea so when I go back I will already be a citizen of some country,” he said. “I guess that’s where I belong.”
“我觉得从某种程度上讲，好的一面就是我是一名韩国公民，所以当我回去的时候，就已经是那个国家的公民了，”他说。“我猜那才是我的归属。”