TOKYO — The parents of a Japanese woman abducted by North Korea in 1977 were allowed to see their North Korean-born granddaughter for the first time last week at a secret meeting in Mongolia, Japan’s Foreign Ministry said on Sunday.
东京——日本外务省周日称，一名1977年被朝鲜绑架的日本女子的父母，上周前往蒙古进行了一次秘密会面，首次获准见到他们在朝鲜出生的外孙女。
The meeting in the Mongolian capital, Ulan Bator, between the parents of Megumi Yokota, who disappeared in Japan on her way home from school when she was 13, and her daughter, Kim Eun-gyong, now 26, according to Japanese news media, appeared to be a good-will gesture by North Korea toward Japan.
横田惠(Megumi Yokota)是13岁时在放学回家的路上被绑架的，据日本新闻媒体报道，她的女儿金恩敬（Kim Eun-gyong，音译）现年26岁，此次在蒙古首都乌兰巴托和横田惠父母的会面，被看做是朝鲜向日本做出的友好姿态。
Ms. Yokota, who died in 1994, according to North Korea, has been the subject of foreign and Japanese documentary films and also manga comics, making her perhaps the best-known of more than a dozen Japanese citizens known to have been kidnapped by North Korean agents in the 1970s and ’80s.
据朝鲜方面称，横田惠已经于1994年去世，她一直是国外和日本国内纪录片乃至漫画的一个主题，因此在上世纪70、80年代被朝鲜特工绑架的十几名日本国民中，她可能是最为人所知的一位。
The ministry said her parents, Shigeru and Sakie Yokota, 81 and 78, met Ms. Kim for several days last week, though it provided few details. Ms. Yokota’s former husband, Kim Young-nam, a South Korean who was also kidnapped by the North, might have also been present, according to Japan’s Kyodo News Agency.
外务省称她的父母、81岁的横田滋(Shigeru Yokota)和78岁的横田早纪江(Sakie Yokota)上周和金恩敬团聚数日，但没有提供多少细节。据日本共同通讯社(Kyodo News Agency)称，横田惠生前的丈夫、同样被绑架至朝鲜的韩国人金英男(Kim Young-nam)可能也参与了会面。
The Asahi Shimbun, a major Japanese newspaper, quoted unnamed government officials as saying that Ms. Kim’s child — the Yokotas’ great-grandchild — was also present. The age and sex of the child were not provided.
日本的重要报纸《朝日新闻》(Asahi Shimbun)引用未具名政府官员的话称，金恩敬的孩子——即横田夫妇的曾孙辈——也在场。孩子的年龄和性别未予透露。
Japanese news media said the meeting was agreed upon during informal talks between Japanese and North Korean officials this month in Shenyang, China. Those talks, on the sidelines of a meeting of the two nations’ Red Cross societies, were aimed at restarting an official dialogue between the two estranged nations, which was frozen after North Korea launched a large rocket over Japan in December 2012.
日本新闻媒体称，日本和朝鲜双方官员本月在中国沈阳进行了非正式会谈，商定了这次的团聚安排。会谈是趁两国红十字会的正式会议间隙进行的，旨在让两个疏远的国家重新开始官方对话，2012年12月朝鲜发射的一枚大型火箭飞跃日本上空后，两国关系降至冰点。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan has reached out to North Korea, sending a top aide to Pyongyang, the North’s capital, last year in an effort to resolve lingering questions over the fate of the abductees. A breakthrough on this issue could open the way for the resumption of talks toward normalizing relations. Those talks were disrupted a decade ago, when North Korea first admitted to Junichiro Koizumi, then Japan’s prime minister and Mr. Abe’s political mentor, that it had kidnapped 13 Japanese citizens.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)曾主动与朝鲜接触，去年派遣一名高级幕僚前往朝鲜首都平壤，试图解决有关被绑架者下落的遗留问题。在这一问题上的突破，也许能为双方恢复关系正常化谈判打开局面。十年前，朝鲜首次向当时的日本首相、安倍晋三的政治导师小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)承认，该国绑架了13名日本国民，双方在这方面的谈判随即中断。
In 2002, North Korea returned five of the abductees but said the others had died, in some cases under circumstances that the Japanese considered to be mysterious or far-fetched. The lack of information has fostered a feeling in Japan that some of the abductees may still be alive. The Yokotas have said that they do not believe North Korea’s account that their daughter committed suicide in a mental hospital in 1994.
2002年，朝鲜交还了五名被绑架者，但称其他人已经死亡，其中某些案例中对死亡原因的解释在日本人看来是可疑或牵强的。信息的匮乏导致日本产生了一种感觉，认为其中一些被绑架者仍在人世。朝鲜称横田惠于1994年在一家精神病院自杀，横田夫妇表示他们不相信这种说法。
The Yokotas’ long and often-lonely search to discover the fate of their missing daughter eventually captured the hearts of many Japanese, galvanizing anger at North Korea over the abductions.
横田夫妇多年来凭一己之力寻找失踪女儿的下落，最终打动了许多日本人，并激起他们对朝鲜绑架行为的愤慨。
For its part, North Korea has in the past appeared to try to use the couple’s granddaughter, who has also been identified as Kim Hye-gyong, as a bargaining chip with Japan, dangling the prospect of a meeting in what may have been an effort to get concessions in future negotiations.
在朝鲜方面，两夫妇的孙女、又名金惠敬(Kim Hye-gyong)的金恩敬曾经被他们当做和日本交涉的筹码，用一场会面作为诱饵，以便在未来的谈判中争取到对方的让步。