MANILA, Philippines — President Obama, stung by criticism of his response to turmoil from Eastern Europe to the Middle East, defended his approach to foreign policy as a slow but steady pursuit of American interests while avoiding military conflict, and he lashed out at those he said reflexively call for the use of force.
菲律宾马尼拉——因受到自己对从东欧到中东的各种动荡局势处理不当的批评，奥巴马总统被激怒，他对自己的外交政策手法进行了辩护，表示这是在缓慢而稳步地推进美国利益，同时避免美国卷入军事冲突。对那些他所说的本能地呼吁使用武力的人，他也予以了猛烈抨击。
Standing next to the Philippine president, Benigno S. Aquino III, a visibly frustrated Mr. Obama said on Monday that his critics had failed to learn the lessons of the Iraq war.
周一，站在菲律宾总统贝尼尼奥·S·阿基诺三世(Benigno S. Aquino III)身边的奥巴马显露出恼怒之情。他表示，那些批评者未能从伊拉克战争中吸取教训。
On a day in which he announced new sanctions against Russia for its continued threats to Ukraine, Mr. Obama said his foreign policy was based on a workmanlike tending to American priorities that might lack the high drama of a wartime presidency but also avoided ruinous mistakes.
当天，奥巴马宣布，因俄罗斯持续威胁乌克兰，将对其采取新的制裁措施。他表示，自己的外交政策基于的是对美国重大利益的精巧追求，或许缺乏战时总统的波澜壮阔，但也避免了后果严重的失误。
“You hit singles, you hit doubles; every once in a while we may be able to hit a home run,” Mr. Obama said at a news conference with Mr. Aquino. “But we steadily advance the interests of the American people and our partnership with folks around the world.”
“你有时击出一垒安打，有时击出二垒安打；然后偶尔或许能够击出一记本垒打，”在与阿基诺进行的联合记者会上，奥巴马说，“不过，我们在稳步推进美国民众的利益，以及我们与世界各地盟友的关系。”
Mr. Obama’s statement, delivered at the end of a weeklong trip to Asia, was a rare insight into a second-term president already sizing up his legacy as a statesman. By turns angry and rueful, his words suggested the distance he had traveled from the confident young leader who accepted a Nobel Peace Prize with a speech about the occasional necessity of war.
奥巴马的此番表态出现在为期一周的亚洲之行的最后一站，难得地让外界得以窥见，一位处于第二任期的总统已在衡量自身的政治遗产。他语带愤怒与懊恼，表明了他从当年一路走来的历程。他曾是一位充满自信的年轻领导人，获得了诺贝尔和平奖(Nobel Peace Prize)，并在领奖致辞中讨论了偶尔进行战争的必要性。
While he flatly rejected the Republican portrait of him as feckless in the face of crises like Syria, Mr. Obama seemed to be wrestling with a more nuanced critique, that aside from one or two swings for the fences — the nuclear negotiations with Iran, for example — his foreign policy had become a game of small ball.
根据共和党的描绘，奥巴马在面对叙利亚等危机时软弱无力。尽管他断然否认了这种说法，但在一种更为微妙的批评面前，他却似乎显出了挣扎。这一批评就是，除了一两次大力出击的尝试之外，比如与伊朗进行核谈判，他的外交政策已沦为小打小闹。
Mr. Obama offered this trip as Exhibit A for the virtues of an incremental approach: He nudged along trade negotiations with Japan, consoled a bereaved ally in South Korea, cultivated ties with a once-hostile Malaysia and signed a modest defense agreement with the Philippines.
奥巴马将此次亚洲之行作为展示渐进战术好处的最佳案例：他缓慢推进了美国与日本之间的贸易谈判、抚慰了处于沉船事故悲痛中的盟友韩国、培养了与一度交恶的马来西亚之间的纽带，并与菲律宾签署了一份温和的防务协议。
He drew a sharp contrast between the international coalition the United States had marshaled to pressure President Vladimir V. Putin and the proposals of some Republicans to funnel weapons to Ukrainian soldiers, which he mocked as ineffective.
美国通过努力，已经组建了向俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)施压的国际联盟。在这种做法与部分共和党人提出的向乌克兰军队输送武器的建议之间，奥巴马进行了鲜明的对比，并嘲笑后者没有功效。
“Why is it that everybody is so eager to use military force,” Mr. Obama said, “after we’ve just gone through a decade of war at enormous cost to our troops and to our budget. And what is it exactly that these critics think would have been accomplished?”
“我们刚刚经历了十年战争，付出了巨大的军事与经济代价，可为什么每个人还那么急于动用武力？这些批评者认为，我们到底能从动武中获得什么？”他反问道。
The president did not name his critics, except to refer to them as foreign policy commentators “in an office in Washington or New York.” He also referred to the Sunday morning talk shows, where Senator John McCain of Arizona, a fierce Obama critic, is a ubiquitous guest.
奥巴马没有对这些批评者指名道姓，只是将他们称为“待在华盛顿或纽约办公室”的外交政策评论人士。他还提到了周日早间的政治脱口秀，而猛烈抨击他的亚利桑那州参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)就是这些节目的常客。
“If we took all of the actions that our critics have demanded, we’d lose count of the number of military conflicts that America would be engaged in.”
“如果采取了那些批评者要求的每项行动，我们就会数不清美国介入的军事冲突有多少了。”
These days, one crisis follows on the heels of another. Even Mr. Obama’s Asian trip, which he had put off from October because of the government shutdown, was overshadowed by the tensions with Russia and the suspension of peace talks between the Israelis and Palestinians.
这段时间，各种危机接踵而至。就连这次由于政府停摆而从去年10月推迟到现在的亚洲之行，也因两件事情蒙上了阴影：一是与俄罗斯之间的对峙，二是以巴和平谈判的暂停。
When Mr. Obama returns to Washington on Tuesday, his advisers say, he wants to regain the offensive with several speeches, most notably a graduation address at the United States Military Academy at West Point, N.Y., next month, in which he will try to place his decisions on Syria, Ukraine and other crises into a broader context.
当奥巴马周二回到华盛顿的时候，他的幕僚表示，他希望用几个演讲重启攻势，其中最重要的是下个月在位于纽约州的西点军校(United States Military Academy)进行的毕业演讲。届时，他将努力用更为宏观的角度来解读自己在叙利亚和乌克兰等危机中的决策。
“There is a tendency to view all of American foreign policy through the prism of the most difficult crisis of the day, rather than taking the longer view,” Mr. Rhodes said.
副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹(Benjamin J. Rhodes)说，“有一种倾向，就是通过当下最棘手的危机来透视美国所有的外交政策，而不是从更长远的角度来看待这些政策。”
The president’s frustration flared during the first news conference of his trip, with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. He was asked if, by declaring that the United States would protect disputed islands in the East China Sea under its security treaty with Japan, he risked drawing another “red line,” like the one in Syria over chemical weapons.
在此行的第一场新闻发布会中，与日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)一道现身的奥巴马展现了懊恼之情。他被问到，美方宣布将根据美日安保条约来保护东海争议岛屿，此举是否在冒险划下另一道“红线”，就像美国在叙利亚化学武器议题上一样。
“The implication of the question I think is, is that each and every time a country violates one of those norms the United States should go to war, or stand prepared to engage militarily, and if it doesn’t then somehow we’re not serious about those norms,” he said. “Well, that’s not the case.”
“我想这个问题的言外之意是，每次有任何国家违反任何一条规则时，美国都应该诉诸战争，或者随时准备进行军事干预，如果美国不打算这么干，那么我们对这些规则就有点儿视同儿戏了。”他说，“其实，实情并非如此。”
In the case of Syria, Mr. Obama noted that after he canceled a threatened missile strike, the United States cobbled together a deal with Russia to remove Syria’s chemical munitions. As of last week, he said, 87 percent of President Bashar al-Assad’s stockpile of chemical weapons had been removed from the country.
奥巴马指出，在叙利亚危机中，当他取消了之前威胁采取的导弹打击后，美国和俄罗斯拟定了一份销毁叙利亚化学武器库的协议。他说，截至上周，叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)手里掌握的87%的化学武器都已被运出叙利亚。
“The fact that we didn’t have to fire a missile to get that accomplished is not a failure to uphold those international norms, it’s a success,” the president said, adding, “It’s not a complete success until we have the last 13 percent out.”
“我们不是非得发射导弹才能取得这种成果。这一事实对于维护国际规则而言不是一种失败，而是一种成功。”他说，“在我们把最后剩下的13%的化学武器运出去之前，这还不是一场彻底的胜利。”
Mr. Obama challenged those who say the United States must take some kind of military action in Syria. “They themselves say, ‘No, no, no, we don’t mean sending in troops.’ Well, what do you mean?” he asked.
一些人表示，美国必须在叙利亚采取某种军事行动。奥巴马对此提出了质疑。“他们自己说，‘不、不、不，我们不是说要派遣军队。’好吧，那你们到底是什么意思？”他反问道。
The same dialogue occurs with Russia and Ukraine. Nobody is seriously advocating sending in American troops, the president said, but some want to arm the Ukrainians.
在对待俄罗斯与乌克兰的问题上，也存在同样的争论。总统表示，没有一个人真正倡议美国派遣军队，不过，有些人想要武装乌克兰人。
“Do people actually think that somehow us sending some additional arms into Ukraine could potentially deter the Russian Army?” Mr. Obama said. “Or are we more likely to deter them by applying the sort of international pressure, diplomatic pressure and economic pressure that we’re applying?”
“这些人真的以为，假如我们多输送一些武器进入乌克兰，就有可能吓退俄罗斯军队？”奥巴马问，“还是说，我们更有可能通过现在正在施加的这类国际压力、外交压力和经济压力来威慑他们？”
Despite his frustrations, Mr. Obama had some small victories in Asia. The 10-year deal with the Philippines will give American troops, ships and planes expanded access to bases here, something that would have been unthinkable a decade ago, after fierce public opposition forced the United States to relinquish its Subic Bay naval base.
尽管遭遇到挫折，奥巴马在亚洲还是取得了一些小规模的胜利。他和菲律宾签订的10年军事协议将扩大美军士兵及其军舰和飞机使用菲律宾军事基地的范围。这在10年前是不可想象的，当时，菲律宾民众的强烈反对迫使美国放弃了位于苏比克湾的海军基地。