At the heart of Kathryn Ma’s haunting first novel, “The Year She Left Us,” is a young woman who loses her way. Ari is 18 and home from a summer in China, where she worked for a company that takes Western families with adopted Chinese girls on “heritage tours.” They visit the orphanages and, sometimes, the places where the abandoned babies were first found: police stations, department stores and random patches of dirt by the side of the road. For these orphans, their “Finding Day” may be the closest approximation to the simple commonplace most of us take for granted — a birthday.
凯瑟琳·马(Kathryn Ma)令人难忘的第一部小说《她离开我们的那一年》(The Year She Left Us)以一位迷途少女为中心。18岁的阿丽(Ari)在中国待了一个夏天后回到家。她在中国为一个公司工作，该公司组织收养中国女孩的美国家庭进行“寻根之旅”。他们参观孤儿院，有时是参观弃婴首次被发现的地方：公安局、商场或路边的垃圾堆。对这些孤儿来说，他们的“发现日”可能最接近对我们大多数人来说很寻常的东西——生日。
Ari was one of those girls. She was left in a Kunming department store and later adopted by a Chinese-American lawyer called Charlie, a single woman whose sister and mother also play a big part in her daughter’s life. Ari has been told that she’s lucky — “Lucky girl” are the first two words of the book — but she’s not feeling it, despite her grandmother’s reminder that “nobody has to know” she’s adopted; the “skin tone” of her adoptive mother “was exactly the same.” “It must be so much easier for you, having a Chinese family,” Ari hears again and again. “It should have been easier, but it wasn’t,” she thinks. “I felt stupid, alone and defective.”
阿丽也是这样一个女孩。她被遗弃在昆明的一个商场，后来被一个叫查理(Charlie)的华裔美国律师收养。查理是个单身女人，她的姊妹和妈妈也在阿丽的生活中扮演着重要角色。人们经常对阿丽说她是幸运的——“幸运的女孩”是这本书的头两个单词——但是她不觉得自己幸运，尽管外祖母总是提醒别人“没人必须知道”她是收养来的，她和养母“肤色一模一样”。“你有个华裔家庭，应该轻松得多，”阿丽经常听到这句话。“应该轻松一些，但是实际上没有，”她想，“我觉得愚蠢，孤独，有缺陷。”
Yet she inhabits a populated, socially connected world. Ari — her full name is Ariadne Bettina Yun-li Rose Kong — grew up in the Bay Area as a member of the Whackadoodles, a collective of “Western-Adopted Chinese Daughters, corralled on a monthly basis at a playground or a park so that the girls with white parents could see girls who looked like themselves.” The Whackadoodles go on field trips to San Francisco’s Chinatown “to watch lion dancers or eat special cakes or buy willow or forsythia or flowering quince branches for Lunar New Year and the Lantern Festival and Qingming and the Moon Festival too.” None of which Charlie’s Chinese-American family “had ever bothered to celebrate growing up in Palos Verdes.”
但是她生活在一个人口密集、社会联系密切的环境中。阿丽的全名是阿丽亚德妮·贝蒂娜·云丽·罗斯·孔(Ariadne Bettina Yun-li Rose Kong)。她在旧金山湾区长大，是“怪胎”(Whackadoodles)团体的成员之一，怪胎是“西方家庭收养的中国女孩的一个团体，每月一次在游乐场或公园里聚会，这样养父母是白人的女孩能看到跟她们相似的人。”她们去旧金山的唐人街实地考察，“在春节、元宵节、清明节和中秋节去看舞狮，吃特别的糕点，买柳条、连翘枝或木瓜枝”。查理“在帕洛斯弗迪斯长大时”，她的华裔美国家庭“从未庆祝过”这些节日。
Groups make their own idioms, and one of the pleasures of “The Year She Left Us” is the exuberance of the Whackadoodles’ expressions, like “Gotcha Day” and “forever families.”But there are forbidden words too. When Ari ventures to talk about how her parents abandoned her, “The A-word in my mouth felt dangerous and thrilling.”
这个团体有自己的习语，读《她离开我们的那一年》的乐趣之一就是这些怪胎们丰富的表达方式，比如“醒悟的那天”或“永远的家庭”。但是也有禁忌语。当阿丽尝试谈论她的父母如何抛弃(abandoned)了她时，“那个A打头的单词在我的嘴里感觉危险而刺激”。
The foundling may be a familiar figure in the history of the novel, most prominently in Dickens and the Brontës, but Ma gives us a striking 21st-century iteration. In 1992, China passed a law allowing foreign adoptions. Since then, Americans have brought home more than 80,000 Chinese children — most of them girls.
在小说史上，弃儿是常见的人物，在狄更斯(Dicken)和勃朗特(Brontë)三姐妹的小说中尤为突出，但是凯瑟琳·马给我们讲述了一个惊人的21世纪的故事。1992年，中国政府立法允许外国人收养中国儿童。从那以后，美国人带回了80000多名中国儿童，其中大多是女孩。
Most of Ma’s Whackadoodles are doing fine. “A Mandarin tutor came weekly to Whackadoodles to teach us driblets of vocabulary and once in a while a song,” Ari says. A handful had after-school immersion. A couple of girls, adopted by Jewish families, were bat mitzvahed. By the time we meet them, many of the Whackadoodles are about to go off to college, including Ari, who’s been accepted to Bryn Mawr, her grandmother’s beloved alma mater.
凯瑟琳·马笔下的“怪胎”们大多都健康成长。“一个普通话老师每周来教我们一点儿词汇，有时教我们一首歌，”阿丽说。一小部分人接受课外沉浸式教育。被犹太家庭收养的几个女孩举行了成年礼。我们见到她们时，其中很多“怪胎”即将上大学，包括阿丽，她被布林莫尔学院录取，这所大学是她外祖母深爱的母校。
Yet our heroine remains tormented by her origins. Her “forever family” of three smart, uncoupled women is unconventional but loving: Her mother is a public defender who’s read all the books about adoption, and her aunt, Les, is an ambitious judge. Both go by men’s nicknames, and neither has ever married. Ari’s grandmother is a hoot — and a liability for her politically correct daughters: “Gran had scrutinized Ari, wondering aloud if she came from one of the ethnic minority populations scattered over the poor rural areas outside of Kunming. No, she decided, Ari was Han Chinese. They would never know for sure, of course, but she had classical features. A delicate face, a smooth brow. A neck of the proper proportion.”
但是我们的女主人公仍为自己的出身感到痛苦。她“永远的家”由三个聪明的单身女人组成，虽然不够正统，但是充满关爱：她妈妈是个公辩律师，阅读了所有关于收养的书；姨妈雷(Les)是个雄心勃勃的法官。两个人都有着男人的昵称，都没结过婚。阿丽的外祖母是个有趣的人——对两个政治正确的女儿来说也是她们的累赘：“外祖母仔细审视阿丽，大声询问她是不是散布在昆明周围贫困农村的少数民族。后来她确信阿丽不是少数民族，是汉人。当然她们永远也不可能确定这一点，但是阿丽有着典型的汉人长相。精致的脸，平滑的眉毛。脖子的比例也合适。”
Like Philip Roth and, more recently, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Ma is unafraid to generalize about her culture and explore its snobberies and social codes. “We’re not Chinatown Chinese,” Ari’s grandmother declares. “We speak Mandarin, not Cantonese. The people who live in Chinatown came from mostly one part of China. Through no fault of their own . . . their ancestors were uneducated and they speak a different language.” Ma also has fun revealing how racially clueless many of us are. “She looks just like you,” people often tell Charlie. Ma notes dryly: “A Chinese person never said that.”
和菲利普·罗斯(Philip Roth)以及更近一些的齐玛曼达·恩格济·阿迪契(Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie)一样，马不怕对自己的文化进行概括，探索它的势利和社会习俗。“我们不是唐人街的那种中国人，”阿丽的外祖母宣称，“我们说的是普通话，不是粤语。住在唐人街的那些人大多来自中国的一个地区。虽然不是他们的错……但是他们的祖先没受过教育，说的是另一种语言。”马还欢快地以揭露出我们很多人在种族上多么无知。“她长得跟你一模一样，”人们经常对查理说。马冷冰冰地指出：“中国人从不这么说。”
Ma, who practiced law in California, writes with authority about racial politics in San Francisco, a city where, not long ago, “all the Asian lawyers in town fit into five or six tables.” Now Chinatown power players can block or tip a judge’s promotion, and the annual luncheon of the local Asian bar association fills the banquet floor. Ma’s satirical talent shines in tart, seemingly throwaway lines: “His wife was surprisingly ugly, a point in the man’s favor,” or “She’s deliberately overlooking a perfectly good social slight.”
马在加州从事法律工作，她对旧金山种族政治的描述是可信的。不久之前，这座城市里的“亚裔律师加起来只能凑够五六桌”。现在唐人街里有权势的人能阻止或颠覆一位法官的晋升，当地亚裔律师协会的年度午餐会能占满整个宴会厅。马的讽刺才能在似乎随口说出的尖刻话语中得以闪现：“他的妻子丑得惊人，对这个男人来说这是好事”，或“她故意忽视一个绝好的社交怠慢”。
Gran, for her part, hates her daughters’ hybrid cars, with “no pickup and precious little style,” complaints that might extend to the daughters themselves. And there’s no question that the most vivid characters in the book are Gran and the troubled Ari. They’re shimmering and unforgettable. Ari would be a difficult teenager for any parent. Once a baby “as light as a teacup, with a big cartoon smile,” she grows into an 18-year-old who drinks, smokes, sleeps around and has tattoos and a “metal shank” piercing her eyebrow. And it gets worse. In China, she mutilates herself. “I didn’t purge or binge or pull out my hair,” she says, comparing herself with the other girls, “but I was the only one who had used a butcher knife.”
外祖母讨厌女儿们的混合动力汽车，说它们“缺乏突然加速的能力，几乎毫无格调”，抱怨说这种气质可能延伸到女儿们身上。书中最生动的人物无疑是外祖母和苦恼的阿丽。她们熠熠闪光，令人难忘。对任何父母来说，阿丽都是个棘手的青少年。她曾是个“像茶杯一样轻的”婴儿，“有着漫画般的夸张笑容”，到18岁时，她喝酒，抽烟，到处厮混，身上有纹身，眉毛上穿了一个“金属环”。而且情况变得更糟。在中国那段时间她开始自毁。“我没酗酒闹事，也没有发狂，”她在把自己和其他女孩进行比较时说，“但我是唯一用过屠刀的人。”
Ari’s self-destruction is not as original as she first pretends; she admits she was copying an artist who chopped off a digit. After she returns home, she bags Bryn Mawr, starts sleeping with an older boss who repels her, decamps from her mom’s apartment and leaves for Alaska, in search of a man she saw in a picture who was holding her as a baby.
阿丽的自毁不像她最初假装的那样是自发的；她承认自己在模仿一个切掉一根手指的艺术家。回到家后，她不去布林莫尔学院上课，开始和一个厌恶她的较年长的老板睡觉，从妈妈的公寓搬出去，去阿拉斯加寻找一个男人——她曾在一张照片上看到这个男人抱着婴儿时期的她。
One might ask where the men are in Ma’s world. Gran had two husbands, but they’re dead. Les, Ari’s aunt, has had a long affair with a married man — “broken off twice, and resumed in urgent surrender.” Charlie fell in love once, and then the man she’d hoped to make a life with drifted away and died. In a lovely plot twist reminiscent of Alice Munro, her daughter’s odyssey unravels the mystery of that abandonment.
有人可能会问，在马的世界里，男人都去哪儿了。外祖母结过两次婚，但是他们都去世了。阿丽的姨妈雷和一个已婚男人有长期婚外情——“分过两次手，但是因为突然屈服又继续了下去”。查理谈过一次恋爱，曾期望与这个男人共度一生，但是他后来渐渐疏远，然后去世了。书中有个可爱的情节突变——让人想起了爱丽丝·门罗(Alice Munro)的小说——阿丽的历险揭开了查理被抛弃的谜团。