An American college student sentenced by North Korea to 15 years of hard labor on charges that he tried to steal a political poster has been granted only one consular visit in nearly six months, the State Department said Tuesday.
美国国务院周二表示，一名被朝鲜判处15年劳役的美国大学生在近六个月的时间里只获准接受了一次领事探视。这名大学生被判刑的罪名是他试图盗取一张政治宣传海报。
The prisoner, Otto F. Warmbier of Cincinnati, a 21-year-old honors student at the University of Virginia, has been held in North Korea since January. He was seized by North Korean security officials on the day he was to depart the country at the end of an organized tour.
这名囚徒是弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)的优等生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)，来自辛辛那提，现年21岁。自今年1月以来，他一直被关押在朝鲜。他跟团在朝鲜旅游，但在最后一天即将离开时被朝鲜安全官员扣留。
Mr. Warmbier’s incarceration, against the backdrop of North Korea’s growing isolation over the country’s nuclear and missile tests, is widely viewed as tool of leverage by the North Korean authorities against the United States.
在朝鲜因为核试验和导弹试验而越来越被孤立的背景下，关押瓦姆比尔的举动被普遍认为是朝鲜当局用来对抗美国的一件工具。
Over the past several years, North Korea has periodically seized roughly a dozen Americans who have visited the country, which has considered the United States its most dangerous enemy since the 1950-53 Korean War. Most of the Americans have either been expelled or eventually released.
过去几年里，朝鲜间歇性地扣留了十几名前往该国的美国人。自1950至1953年的朝鲜战争以来，朝鲜一直视美国为其最危险的敌人。这些美国人中，大部分要么被驱逐出境，要么最终获释。
Mr. Warmbier was shown on North Korean television tearfully apologizing for the attempted theft of a political propaganda poster in his hotel in Pyongyang, the capital, a seemingly minor offense that the government regarded as a major crime.
瓦姆比尔曾出现在朝鲜电视台的镜头中，就其企图窃取在首都平壤所住酒店里的一张政治宣传海报含泪致歉。这种看起来微不足道的过错被朝鲜政府视为大罪。
In mid-March, he was punished with a 15-year term in the North Korean penal system, angering the United States government and drawing rebukes elsewhere for what was seen as a disproportionately harsh sentence.
今年3月中旬，朝鲜当局判处他在该国惩戒系统中服15年的苦役。这一严厉的刑罚被认为有失公允，触怒了美国政府，并招致了来自其他方面的谴责。
People in contact with the Warmbier family, which has declined to give interviews, said Mr. Warmbier had received only one consular visit, in March, from the embassy of Sweden, which looks after American interests in North Korea.
瓦姆比尔的家人拒绝接受采访，而与他们有联系的人士称，他只在3月份接受过一次瑞典大使馆的领事探访。该使馆在朝鲜代理美国相关事务。
The State Department spokesman, John Kirby, confirmed that information on Tuesday.
美国国务院发言人约翰·柯比(John Kirby)于周二确认了这一信息。
“A representative from the Swedish Embassy last visited Mr. Warmbier on March 2, 2016,” Mr. Kirby said in a statement. Despite requests by the Swedish Embassy, he said, the North Korean government “still routinely delays or denies consular access to U.S. citizens.”
“一位来自瑞典大使馆的代表于2016年3月2日最后一次探访了瓦姆比尔，”柯比在声明中表示。他说，尽管瑞典大使馆一再请求，朝鲜政府“仍循例拖延塞责或拒绝让美国公民接受领事服务”。
It is considered unusual for prisoners to get only one consular visit over such a long period.
囚徒在这么长时间里只接受过一次领事探访，被认为是不同寻常的事情。
The State Department has warned Americans not to travel to North Korea because of the risk of arbitrary arrest. But that has not dissuaded people curious about the country’s hermetic society and the population’s fealty to the Kim family, which has ruled North Korea since its founding.
美国国务院告诫本国公民，不要去朝鲜旅行，因为会面临被任意拘捕的风险。但封闭的朝鲜社会，以及朝鲜人对自从建国以来便居于统治地位的金氏家族的忠诚，让一些美国人颇为好奇，上述警告没能说服他们改变初衷。
Mr. Warmbier traveled there with Young Pioneer Tours, a China-based group that specializes in visits to North Korea.
瓦姆比尔在总部位于中国、专营朝鲜旅游业务的青年先锋旅行社(Young Pioneer Tours)安排下到了朝鲜。
There has been no indication from the North Korean authorities of when they might be prepared to release Mr. Warmbier.
没有任何来自朝鲜当局的迹象能够表明，他们可能打算在何时释放瓦姆比尔。
He received the harshest punishment of any American detained there since November 2012, when Kenneth Bae, an American missionary of Korean descent, was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor.
自从韩裔美国传教士肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)于2012年11月被判服15年劳役以来，瓦姆比尔是朝鲜当局拘禁的所有美国人当中受罚最重的一个。
Mr. Bae and another imprisoned American, Matthew Todd Miller, were freed by the North Koreans in November 2014 during a visit to North Korea by James R. Clapper Jr., the Obama administration’s national intelligence director, who brought them home aboard his plane after secret negotiations.
在2014年11月，肯尼斯·裴和另一名被朝鲜囚禁的美国人马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)在奥巴马政府的国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)访问朝鲜期间获释。和朝鲜当局进行秘密谈判后，克拉珀带着他们乘自己的专机回到了美国。