Otto F. Warmbier, an American college student who was released from a North Korean prison last week after spending 17 months in captivity and more than a year in a coma, died on Monday at an Ohio hospital where he was receiving treatment.
美国大学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)周一在俄亥俄州的一家医院去世。他在朝鲜坐牢17个月、昏迷了一年多之后，于上周获得释放。
In a statement, Mr. Warmbier’s family said the 22-year-old died on Monday at 2:20 p.m.
瓦姆比尔的家人在一份声明中说，他于周一下午2点20分去世，享年22岁。
“Unfortunately, the awful torturous mistreatment our son received at the hands of the North Koreans ensured that no other outcome was possible beyond the sad one we experienced today,” the statement said.
“不幸的是，我们的儿子在朝鲜人手里遭到了极其痛苦的虐待，导致了今天这个让我们痛不欲生的结果。”
“When Otto returned to Cincinnati on June 13th he was unable to speak, unable to see and unable to react to verbal commands,” the statement said. “He looked very uncomfortable — almost anguished. Although we would never hear his voice again, within a day the countenance of his face changed — he was at peace. He was home and we believe he could sense that.”
“6月13日回到辛辛那提时，奥托不能言、不能看，也无法对口头要求作出反应。”声明中说，“他看起来很不舒服——近乎痛苦。虽然我们再也不会听到他的声音了，但是在一天之内，他的脸色就起了变化——他很安详。他回家了，我们相信他能感觉到这一点。”
Mr. Warmbier, a University of Virginia honors student, was detained at the Pyongyang airport in January 2016 at the end of a five-day tour of North Korea organized by a Chinese travel company.
瓦姆比尔是弗吉尼亚大学的优等生，2016年1月，他参加了一个中国旅行社组织的朝鲜五日游，但在旅游结束时，他在平壤机场被扣押。
He was charged with a “hostile act” against the country’s authoritarian government and convicted less than two months later of trying to steal a propaganda poster. His trial lasted one hour.
他被控对该国的集权政府做出了“敌对行为”，不到两个月，他就因为窃取宣传海报被定罪。审判持续了一个小时。
Doctors at the University of Cincinnati Medical Center said last week that two M.R.I. scans sent by the North Koreans indicated that Mr. Warmbier suffered a catastrophic brain injury shortly after his conviction, most likely before April 2016.
辛辛那提大学医学中心的医生上周表示，朝鲜发送的两张核磁共振扫描图像显示，瓦姆比尔被定罪后不久就遭遇了一场灾难性脑损伤，时间很可能是在2016年4月之前。
The doctors said he had suffered “extensive loss of brain tissue in all regions of his brain” that had most likely been caused by “cardiopulmonary arrest” that cut off the blood supply to his brain.
医生说，他整个脑部都遭受了“脑组织的大面积毁损”，原因很可能是“心肺骤停”导致他的脑部血液供应被切断。