HONG KONG — A blind man’s guide dog that had been stolen in Beijing, drawing an unusual amount of police and media attention, was found Tuesday evening with a note attached asking for forgiveness, its owner said.
香港——北京一位盲人的导盲犬被抢，引发了警方和媒体的格外关注。本周二晚，狗主人说导盲犬已经找到，身上还带着一张请求原谅的字条。
Qiaoqiao, a black Labrador retriever that had served as a guide to Tian Fengbo for six years, came running up to Mr. Tian and his family members as they prepared to search for the dog, Mr. Tian said on Wednesday.
这只狗名叫乔乔，是黑色的拉布拉多，为田凤波担任导盲犬已经六年。田凤波本周三表示，就在他和家人准备出门继续寻找的时候，乔乔跑了过来。
“She is doing well,” Mr. Tian said in a telephone interview. “Last night she was a bit low spirited, but now she’s fine. She’s right beside me, bouncing and vivacious.”
“她情况不错，”田凤波在接受电话采访时说。“昨晚她的情绪有点低迷，但是现在好了。她就在我身边，蹦蹦跳跳的。”
Mr. Tian’s relatives did not see who returned Qiaoqiao, he said. A note attached to the dog read, “Please forgive us.”
田凤波表示，亲戚没有看到是谁送回了乔乔。她身上留有一张纸条，写着“请原谅我们”。
The Beijing police said on their official Weibo account that the dog’s return was the result of the high level of public interest in the dog’s disappearance. An assistant to Mr. Tian, who operates a massage parlor chain, was walking the dog Monday morning when men in a gray van stole her.
北京警方在其官方微博帐号上称，乔乔被送回是公众对此事高度关注的结果。田凤波经营着一家连锁按摩店，他的助手本周一早上遛狗的时候，一辆灰色面包车上下来几个男人，掳走了乔乔。
“It seems the suspects in Qiaoqiao’s theft have recognized their error,” said the Beijing police statement. “We hope they will take a step forward, give themselves up as soon as possible, explain the situation and strive to be treated leniently.”
“看来掳走‘乔乔’的嫌疑人已经认识到了错误，那我们希望他能再往前走一步，尽快投案自首，说明情况，争取宽大处理，”北京警方的声明表示。
While the theft of dogs, often to be resold as meat, is a common crime in China, Qiaoqiao’s disappearance prompted an unusual amount of discussion, including detailed coverage in many Beijing newspapers, in part because of her rarity as one of China’s small number of guide dogs. Qiaoqiao is one of only about 10 guide dogs in the Chinese capital and about 100 across the country.
在中国，偷狗是一种常见的罪行，常常成为狗肉出售的来源。尽管如此，乔乔的失踪引发了格外的讨论，北京很多报纸对此事进行了详细报道。其中的部分原因是，中国的导盲犬非常稀少。全国大约有100条导盲犬，首都北京只有大约10条，乔乔就是其中之一。