SEOUL, South Korea — A South Korean government-appointed panel faulted on Wednesday a “final and irreversible” deal struck with Japan in 2015 to resolve a decades-old dispute over Korean women who were forced into sexual slavery during World War II.
韩国首尔——韩国政府任命的专项工作小组在周三对一项2015年与日本签订的“最终且不可逆”协议表示批评，该协议旨在解决数十年来围绕二战期间被强迫为性奴的韩国慰安妇产生的纠纷。
The panel’s findings offer President Moon Jae-in a potential opportunity to change or even scrap the agreement reached between Japan and his predecessor as president, Park Geun-hye.
专项小组的调查结果，让文在寅(Moon Jae-in)总统有机会去改变甚至废除前任总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)与日本所达成的协议。
At a news conference on Wednesday, Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha said her ministry “humbly” accepted the panel’s conclusion that the government had failed to represent the victims’ demands when negotiating the deal.
在周三的新闻发布会上，韩国外长康京和(Kang Kyung-wha)表示外交部“真诚”接受专家组的结论，即政府未能在协议的谈判过程中体现受害者的要求。
“As foreign minister, I bow my head deeply, expressing regrets for causing pains for the victims and their families, their advocacy groups and the people in general,” Ms. Kang said.
“作为外交部长，我深深地低头鞠躬，为给受害者和他们的家属、他们的支援团体和韩国人民造成痛苦深表歉意，”康京和说。
Though the 2015 agreement was applauded by the United States, it was widely criticized in South Korea.
2015年的这项协议得到了美国的称赞，但在韩国却广受批评。
In the deal, which both governments at the time called a “final and irreversible” settlement, Japan expressed responsibility and made a new apology to the victims, promising an $8.3 million fund to help provide old-age care. In return, South Korea promised not to criticize Tokyo on the issue again.
在协议中，日本表示对受害者负有责任，并再次提出道歉，承诺出资830万美元作为受害者的养老金。作为回应，韩国承诺不再在此问题上批评东京。
But some of the women complained that the deal had ignored their demands that Japan take “legal” responsibility and provide official reparations.
但有部分慰安妇表示不满，认为该协议忽视了她们对日本承担“法律”责任、提供官方赔偿的要求。
Ms. Kang said the government would not make a final decision until it had consulted again with the women and their families, and considered the ramifications of changing or scrapping the deal for relations with Japan.
康京和表示，在再次征求受害妇女及其家人的意见，并考虑协议被改变或取消的后果之前，政府不会做出最后决定。
In Tokyo, Foreign Minister Taro Kono warned that any attempt to revise the agreement would be “unacceptable” and would make the relationship between Japan and South Korea “unmanageable.”
在东京，日本外务大臣河野太郎(Kono Taro)警告，任何想要修改协议的尝试都会使日韩两国关系“难以控制”。
Historians say that at least tens of thousands of women, many of them Korean, were lured or coerced to work in brothels catering to the Japanese Army from the early 1930s until 1945. The Korean women who survived the war lived mostly in silence because of the stigma, and many never married. A total of 238 women have come forward in South Korea since the early 1990s, of whom 36 are still alive.
历史学家称，从上世纪30年代初到1945年间，至少有数万妇女被诱拐或胁迫去妓院为日本军队服务，其中很多是韩国妇女。90年代初以后，韩国总计有238名妇女站了出来，目前仍在世的有36人。
“A victims-centered approach, which has become the international norm when it comes to the wartime women’s rights, has not been sufficiently reflected, and the deal was reached through give-and-take negotiations as in an ordinary diplomatic issue,” the South Korean panel said in its report released on Wednesday. “The agreement was finalized mostly based on government views without adequately taking into account the opinions of victims.”
以受害者为中心解决问题是国际社会处理战时妇女人权事务的一种规范，但韩日两国政府在协商过程中并未充分遵守这一规则，却像一般外交问题那样，以拿一个、换一个的方式达成了协议。”韩国专项小组周三公布的报告中写道。“这是在未充分听取受害者意见的情况下，以政府立场为主达成的协议。”