WASHINGTON — Attorney General Jeff Sessions, facing a chorus of criticism over his contacts with the Russian ambassador, recused himself Thursday from any investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. His conversations with the ambassador, Sergey I. Kislyak, came amid suspected Russian hacking directed at Hillary Clinton’s campaign.
华盛顿——面对众多关于他和俄罗斯大使进行接触的指责，司法部长杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)于周四自请回避对俄罗斯干涉2016年总统选举的一切调查。在他与俄罗斯大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)对话之时，俄罗斯正被怀疑对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的竞选活动发起了黑客攻击。
Sessions said he made the decision after meeting with senior career officials at the Justice Department. He said he would not take part in any investigations “related in any way to the campaigns for president of the United States.”
塞申斯说，他在与司法部高级事务官会面后做出了这一决定。他说，自己不会参加“任何同美国总统竞选相关的”调查。
He also strongly denied that any of his conversations with Russian officials were related to the presidential campaign. And he said he did not intend to deceive the Senate when he said he had no such meetings with Russian officials.
他还强烈否认自己同俄罗斯官员的任何谈话与总统竞选有关。他说，自己在声称没有同俄罗斯官员进行这样的会面时，并没有打算欺骗参议院。
The remarks by Sessions came not long after President Donald Trump on Thursday expressed his support for Sessions and said he should not recuse himself from the investigation. Sessions was a key adviser and surrogate for Trump’s campaign.
塞申斯发言之前不久，唐纳德·特朗普于周四表示支持塞申斯，并说，他不应该在此类调查中选择回避。塞申斯是特朗普竞选的主要顾问和代理人。
Trump said that he “wasn’t aware” that Sessions had spoken to the ambassador, but that he believed the attorney general had testified truthfully to the Senate during his confirmation hearing.
特朗普说，他“不知道”塞申斯和俄罗斯大使有过交谈，但他相信司法部长在确认其任命的听证会上向参议院作证时是诚实的。
Congressional Republicans began breaking ranks to join Democrats in demanding that Sessions recuse himself from overseeing an investigation into contacts between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Those calls came after the disclosure that Sessions himself spoke with the Russian ambassador last year, in seeming contradiction to his testimony at his confirmation hearing.
国会的共和党人开始打破党派之别，和民主党一起要求，在调查特朗普竞选与俄罗斯政府之间的联系的过程中，塞申斯应该回避。这些呼吁是在塞申斯去年与俄罗斯大使的交谈被披露之后出现的，这些交谈与他在确认听证会上的证词似乎相冲突。
The partisan furor that broke out with the Justice Department’s acknowledgment of the contacts late Wednesday began to take on a bipartisan sheen as the controversy spilled into Thursday morning.
星期三晚些时候，司法部承认了这些联系，从而激发了党派之争，随着争论延续到周四上午，两党开始达成共识。
Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, who leads the Oversight Committee, said on Twitter on Thursday, “AG Sessions should clarify his testimony and recuse himself.”
监管委员会的犹他州共和党众议贾森·沙费特兹(Jason Chaffetz)于周四在Twitter上说，“塞申斯部长应该澄清自己的证词并做出回避。”
Some Democrats were already going further, suggesting that Sessions had perjured himself in the confirmation hearing for the attorney general post and demanding that he step down.
一些民主党人已经走得更远，暗示塞申斯在确认其任命司法部长一职的听证会上作伪证，并要求他辞职。
Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee sent a letter Thursday to the Justice Department and the FBI asking for “an immediate criminal investigation into these statements, which could potentially implicate a number of criminal laws including lying to Congress and perjury.”
众议院司法委员会的民主党人于周四发送一封信给司法部和联邦调查局，要求“立即对这些陈述进行刑事调查，这可能涉及一些刑事犯罪，包括向国会说谎和伪证罪”。
The Trump administration dismissed the accusations as partisan attacks.
特朗普政府将这些指控贬为党派攻击。