Kenneth Bae says his North Korean captors interrogated him up to 15 hours a day for the first four weeks of his incarceration and yelled with impatience until he wrote a confession to their liking. But they would later allow Mr. Bae to read his Bible and permit him to pray.
肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)表示，在被监禁的前四周里，朝鲜官员每日审问他达15小时之久，并且不耐烦地咆哮，直到他写出令人满意的自白书为止。不过他之后便获准阅读圣经与祷告。
They told Mr. Bae that nobody from America cared enough to negotiate his freedom and that he would most likely spend his entire 15-year sentence of hard labor in North Korea’s penal system, where he toiled on a soybean farm and lost more than 30 pounds. But they let Mr. Bae read hundreds of letters emailed from the United States by his family and friends.
这些朝鲜官员告诉裴，美国没有人在乎到愿意为他的自由出面协商，他几乎注定要在朝鲜刑罚体系内服完整整15年的劳改役期，这期间裴在一处大豆农场做苦工，身体减重超过30磅（约合13公斤）。不过他们允许裴看美国亲友发来的数百封电邮。
The North Koreans also billed Mr. Bae about $300,000 for hospital expenses as one of the conditions for leaving, but apparently dropped that demand in the final phase of his ordeal, which ended abruptly after two years in November 2014. The bill, he said, was never paid.
作为让他离开的条件之一，朝鲜政府还要求裴支付约30万美元的住院费用，不过在他所经历磨难的最后阶段，他们看来是放弃了这个要求。裴的这段痛苦遭遇在历时两年后，于2014年11月突然终止。裴表示他从未付过这笔医药费。
Mr. Bae, 47, a missionary and a father of three from Washington State who was the longest-held United States prisoner of North Korea, revealed these previously unreported details about his imprisonment in a book, “Not Forgotten,” which goes on sale Tuesday.
来自华盛顿州的传教士肯尼斯·裴现年47岁，育有三个孩子。他是被朝鲜关押时间最长的美国公民。在本周二面市的《不曾遗忘》(Not Forgotten)一书中，他揭露了这些未为人知的被囚细节。
He was freed with another American, Matthew Todd Miller, in what the North Korean authorities described as a magnanimous gesture by their leader, Kim Jong-un. They were flown home on an American jet by James R. Clapper Jr., the Obama administration’s director of national intelligence, who had visited Pyongyang to secure their release.
他是和另一名美国人马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)一同获释的，朝鲜当局称这是领袖金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的宽宏之举。和他们一同飞回美国的还有奥巴马政府的国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)，他此前造访平壤，以确保两人能够获释。
Mr. Bae’s book, a chronology of events as he saw them, is written as a religious tale, sprinkled with scripture he inserted to reinforce his theme of hope versus despair and his belief that the Christian God had protected him in a country where sharing such thoughts is considered subversive. But the book is also a survival story that shines a light on North Korea’s history of seizing United States citizens.
裴的书按时间顺序记载了自己的经历，采用了宗教故事的形式，其间穿插经文以强调“希望对抗绝望”的主题及他的信念：在一个分享此类信念会被视为颠覆的地方，是基督教的上帝在庇佑着他。然而本书还是一个求生故事，揭示了一段朝鲜囚禁美国国民的历史。
About a dozen Americans have been arrested in North Korea in recent years. All but two have been released, usually through intervention by top American officials. Otto F. Warmbier, a college student from Ohio, was sentenced in March to 15 years of hard labor for trying to steal a political banner. Kim Dong-chul, a businessman from Virginia, was sentenced on Friday to 10 years of hard labor for spying and other offenses.
近年来有十多名美国人在朝鲜被捕。目前尚有两人在押，其他人大多是在美国高级官员出面干预后获释。来自俄亥俄州的大学生奥托·弗雷德里克·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)在3月因企图盗取一面政治标语而被处15年劳役。弗吉尼亚州商人金东哲(Kim Dong-chul)在周五被判10年劳役，罪名是从事间谍活动及其他违法活动。
In an interview before the book was released, Mr. Bae said he knew by the third night of his detention, in November 2012, that he should start keeping a journal. “I felt like I had a story to tell, so I decided that maybe it was something I could write about,” he said.
在本书发表前的一次采访中，裴说在2012年11月被囚的第三个晚上，他意识到自己需要开始写日记。“我感到有一个故事要讲，所以就决定，也许可以把它写下来，”他说。
A naturalized American originally from South Korea, Mr. Bae was arrested in the North Korean city of Rason while leading an officially permitted tour from China, where two years earlier he had started a travel business that specialized in North Korea.
作为韩国裔归化美国人的裴在朝鲜城市罗先被捕，当时他带队从中国入境，在朝鲜进行一次得到官方许可的旅行，两年前他在中国创办了一家专营朝鲜旅游的旅行社。
His underlying motive in that business was missionary work, which is illegal in North Korea. The North Korean authorities discovered his real purpose by examining files in a computer hard drive that Mr. Bae says he had inadvertently left in his luggage.
他创办旅行社的一个潜在动机是传教，而这在朝鲜是非法的。在检查一个电脑硬盘中的文件时，朝鲜当局发现了他的真正目的，据裴本人说，硬盘是他无意中放在行李里的。
The first month of captivity, he said, was among the most difficult, as he struggled to explain why he had such material.
他说被囚禁的第一个月是最艰难的，他要竭力解释为什么他会有这些材料。
“I felt like an insect, tangled in the spider web,” he said. “Every time I moved it got messier, with no way out.”
“我感觉就像一只昆虫，被缠在蜘蛛网里，”他说。“越是挣扎就越糟糕，看不到出路。”
Mr. Bae said he was questioned “from 8 in the morning until 10 or 11 o’clock at night, every day for four weeks. It was very intense.”
裴说对他的审讯“每天早上8点开始，直到夜里10点、11点，持续了四周。强度非常大。”
His treatment improved after he wrote a confession that satisfied his interrogators, in which he described himself as a terrorist who had plotted to overthrow the government. Mr. Bae said his chief prosecutor told him he was “the most dangerous American criminal apprehended in the 60 years since the Korean War.”
在写出了一份审讯人员满意的自白书后，裴的待遇有所改善，他在其中自称是一个密谋推翻政府的恐怖分子。裴说自己案件的首席检察官称其为“朝鲜战争60年来被捕的最危险的美国罪犯”。
While his prison cell was spartan, Mr. Bae said he was far better off than North Korean felons. The penal camp where he was assigned was apparently meant only for foreigners, even though he never saw another prisoner.
他的牢房条件简陋，但是裴说比起朝鲜囚犯来说还是好得多。他所在的劳改营显然是面向外国人的，不过他始终没有见到别的囚犯。
“It wasn’t the Marriott hotel,” he said in the interview. “It wasn’t even Motel 6.”
“那里不是万豪酒店(Marriott)，”他在一次采访中说。“连‘6号汽车旅馆’(Motel 6)都谈不上。”
During his confinement, Mr. Bae was hospitalized three times for problems including diabetes, an enlarged heart and back pain. The North Korean authorities, he said, wanted to charge him 600 euros per night in a hospital, which he said worked out to about $300,000. “I told them, ‘I’m a missionary; I don’t have that kind of money,’” he said.
他在被囚期间三次入院，所涉疾患包括糖尿病、心脏增大和背部疼痛。他说朝鲜官方说他所住的医院每晚费用为600欧元，他算下来大约是30万美元。“我对他们说，‘我是个传教士；我没那么多钱，’”他说。
While his prison treatment was harsh, Mr. Bae said it also revealed a softer undercurrent of respect toward foreign citizens by the North Korean authorities, who are concerned about their image abroad.
他在狱中受到严酷的对待，但裴说这段时间也让他看到，朝鲜当局对外国人怀有一种较温和的敬意，他们是在意自己在海外的形象的。
He was never beaten, Mr. Bae said. He was allowed to communicate with family members — his mother was even permitted to see him in the hospital. He still carries the Bible he was allowed to keep during his imprisonment.
裴说他从未受到殴打。他们允许他和家人联络——他的母亲甚至获准去医院看他。他至今携带着那本在关押期间使用的圣经。
“What is most surprising is the access Kenneth Bae had to messages from his family,” said Bill Richardson, a former diplomat who has visited North Korea to negotiate the release of imprisoned Americans, and who wrote the foreword to Mr. Bae’s book. Nonetheless, Mr. Richardson said in a telephone interview, “Kenneth’s ordeal was the toughest.”
“最意外的是肯尼斯·裴可以看到家人发来的消息，”曾前往朝鲜磋商释放美国人事宜的前外交官比尔·理查德森(Bill Richardson)说，他为裴的书撰写了前言。尽管如此，理查德森还是在一次电话采访中说，“肯尼斯受到了最残酷的磨难。”
As Mr. Bae realized he was about to be released, he wrote in the book, a prosecutor whom he had nicknamed Mr. Disappointment for repeatedly predicting he would never leave, told Mr. Bae he had done so with good intent.
裴在书中写道，当他意识到自己即将获释时，一个反复预言他永远也出不去的检察官说，他那样做是出于好意。裴曾给他取了个外号叫“失望先生”。
“I did not want you to get your hopes up only to have them crushed,” Mr. Bae quoted him as saying.
“我不想让你产生期待，到头来空欢喜一场，”裴引用他的话说。
Mr. Bae also wrote that he had known about a trip to North Korea in January 2014 by Dennis Rodman, the former basketball player and a friend of Mr. Kim’s, but wrote that he only later learned that Mr. Rodman had disparaged Mr. Bae in a CNN interview, rather than calling for his release. Mr. Rodman’s remarks, for which he later apologized, incited outrage by Mr. Bae’s relatives in the United States and indirectly galvanized publicity over his case.
裴还在书中说，他知道前篮球运动员、金正恩的朋友丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)曾在2014年1月来到朝鲜，但是直到后来才得知，罗德曼在接受CNN采访时非但没有呼吁释放他，反而贬损了他。这番令裴在美亲属怒不可遏的言论，间接扩大了此事的曝光度。