Although cat bites account for only 10 to 15 percent of animal bites treated in emergency rooms, they pose special infection risks.
被猫咬伤在所有急诊室治疗的动物咬伤病例中仅占10-15%，不过这种伤可以带来特殊的感染风险。
Dog bites, the most common bites treated, can tear flesh and break bones, but they create open wounds that are easy to clean and less likely to become infected than the puncture wounds created by cats, which usually affect the hand and can inject bacteria into tendons and bones.
被狗咬伤是最常见的动物咬伤，狗可以扯伤皮肉咬断骨头，但这种伤是开放伤，很容易清创，而且相比由猫造成的穿刺伤，感染的风险较低。而猫通常伤及的是人们的双手，可能会在手上的肌腱和骨头里注入细菌。
In a three-year retrospective study published in the February issue of The Journal of Hand Surgery, researchers reviewed records of 193 people who came to Mayo Clinic Hospital with cat bites to the hand.
在《手外科学杂志》2月刊发表的这篇为期3年的回溯性研究中，研究人员审议了193名因手被猫咬伤来到梅奥诊所医院(Mayo Clinic Hospital)求治的病人病历。
Thirty-six victims were immediately admitted to the hospital, where they stayed an average of three days. Another 154 were treated with oral antibiotics as outpatients, although 21 of them eventually had to be hospitalized. Complications included nerve involvement, abscesses and loss of joint mobility.
其中36名伤者立刻被安排住院治疗，平均住院3天。另有154人作为门诊病人接受口服抗生素治疗，不过当中仍有21名最终住院。他们出现的并发症包括神经受累、脓肿和关节僵硬。
The most common cause of infection was Pasteurella multocida, an aggressive bacterium found in the mouths of many animals and up to 90 percent of healthy cats. Amoxicillin is commonly used to treat it.
最常见的感染原因是出血败血性巴斯德菌，这是一种可以在许多动物、更有多达90%的健康猫只口腔中发现的攻击菌。通常的治疗药物为阿莫西林。
“Redness, swelling, increasing pain, difficulty in moving the hand and drainage from the wound are all signs that there may be an infection and that treatment should be sought,” said the senior author of the study, Dr. Brian T. Carlsen, a hand surgeon at the Mayo Clinic.
“出现伤口红肿、疼痛加剧、流脓或手活动受限，这些都是可能发生感染的信号，需要接受治疗，”该研究的资深作者、梅奥诊所手外科医生布莱恩·卡尔森(Brian T. Carlsen)说。
“The tendon sheaths and joints are superficial in the hand, and cat bites penetrate easily, seeding those spaces with the germ, ” he added. “Once it’s in there, it can grow quite rapidly in fluid-filled spaces that don’t have blood circulation, and surgery is often required. That’s an important message: don’t ignore a cat bite.”
“手部的腱鞘和关节都在十分浅表的位置，猫的牙齿可以轻易穿透，并在这里洒播下细菌，”他进一步说：“一旦细菌安营扎寨，会在这种充满液体、没有血液循环的环境里迅速生长，有时就需要手术治疗了。这是个重要的讯息：别小瞧了猫咬伤。”