Meng Han left China for Montana in the spring of 2014 to study English on a fellowship. Though she lived in a populous university town, she found it difficult to connect with her classmates and teachers.
2014年春天，获得一项助学金的韩萌（Meng Han，音）离开中国，到蒙大拿州学英语。虽然住在一个人口众多的大学城里，她还是觉得难以跟同学和老师相处。
“I felt very lonely and isolated because all of the people around me were different,” she said. “Lots of the people are white and there are very few Asians.”
“我觉得非常孤单而且格格不入，因为身边都是和我不同的人，”她说。“这里很多白人，很少亚洲人。”
But just a few months in, she was surprised to meet several Chinese girls at a party organized by her English teacher. The thing is, they were all children, like Anaka, an 8-year-old girl. She sought out Anaka’s mother, who explained that she had adopted the child in China’s southern Guangdong Province.
但几个月后，在一次英语老师办的派对里，她意外地见到了几个中国女孩。关键在于她们都是小女孩，比如8岁的的阿娜卡(Anaka)。韩萌找到了阿娜卡的母亲，她说自己是在中国南方的广东省收养这孩子的。
That unexpected discovery tugged at Ms. Han’s emotions, since having worked for more than a decade as a newspaper photographer in Beijing, she had seen China’s orphanages, where conditions were sometimes terrible. China recently abolished its one-child policy, and yet while the history of cultural preference for boys had once left many orphanages filled with girls, advocates said that parents have also abandoned boys and girls born with disabilities, unable to cope with the medical costs and societal stigma.Ms. Han wondered how the adoptees — now surrounded by “nice toys and nice homes” — felt in their new surroundings. Were they isolated? Did they feel lonely? Did they wonder about their birth parents? Those questions led her to undertake a photo project once she got to Maryland on a journalism fellowship.
这个意外的发现，触发了韩萌的好奇心，因为她在北京作过十多年的摄影记者，见过中国的孤儿院，那里的条件有时很可怕。中国最近取消了一孩政策，但重男轻女的文化曾导致许多孤儿院里全是女孩，据权益倡导人士说，还有的父母会抛弃天生残疾的男孩和女孩，因为他们难以承受医疗费用和社会歧视。韩萌想知道，如今拥有“美好的玩具和家园”的收养儿童在新环境是怎样的感受。他们有被孤立吗？他们感到孤独吗？他们想知道自己的亲生父母吗？在凭借一份新闻学助学金来到马里兰后，这些问题促使她立刻开始了一个摄影计划。
“I wanted to tell the Chinese audience how the Chinese adopted live in America,” she said, “and what kind of lives they have and what is different.”
“我想告诉中国读者，中国收养儿童在美国的生活如何，”她说，“他们是过着怎样的生活，以及这与他们过去有什么不同。”
She sought out families through an online advertisement, and the first response came surprisingly enough from Cheryl Wu, a second-generation Chinese woman who had adopted her daughter from China’s Jiangxi Province. Ms. Wu had taught children with special needs in Washington, D.C. “My job is to look after handicapped children,” she said, “so I always hoped to adopt a child from a Chinese welfare house and take care of her myself.”
她通过网上广告找到收养家庭，出乎意料的是，第一个回应她的是谢丽尔·吴（Cheryl Wu，音），一个第二代中国移民，她在中国江西省收养了女儿。谢丽尔曾在华盛顿教育有特殊需要的孩子。“我的工作是照顾残疾儿童，”她说，“所以我一直希望能从中国福利院领养一个孩子，我自己来照顾。”
Ms. Wu introduced Ms. Han to a network of families with adopted children who often got together for parties and other occasions. Over about a year, she met some 30 families in 10 states, some through word of mouth, others when a nonprofit organization wrote about her project in a newsletter, and still more through a school where families brought children to learn Chinese and Chinese dance.
谢丽尔向韩萌介绍了一个收养儿童家庭网络。这些家庭经常在派对或其他场合上会面。大约一年时间里，韩萌认识了在10个州的约30个家庭，有的是通过别人介绍的，有的是因为某非营利组织在一篇新闻稿中报道了她的项目，更多则是通过学校认识的，家人会带孩子去那些学校学中文和中国的舞蹈。
“At the beginning, I felt very appreciative for the American families,” Ms. Han said. “Otherwise these children will live in a bad situation in China.”
“一开始我就很感谢这些美国家庭，”韩萌说。“如果没有他们，这些孩子在中国的生活状况便会很艰难了。”
Despite their current comfort, she learned of a common complication. “When they were teenagers — 11 years old, or 13 years old, or 14 years old — they always want to think about where they are, why they are here, why they are different,” she said. “Where are my birth parents? Why did they give me up? Why did they abandon me on the street?”
虽然这些孩子目前生活安稳，但她也了解到他们中普遍存在的一个问题。“在他们的青少年时期，比如说11、13或是14岁时，他们经常都会想自己在哪里，为什么会在这里，为什么自己跟别人不一样，”她说。“我的亲生父母在哪里？他们为什么抛弃我？为什么把我丢在外面？”
Those questions led to different responses: from taking language and other cultural classes to visiting China when they were old enough.
收养儿童对这些问题的回答各有不同：有些人会报读语言和其他文化课程，另一些人则等到长大后前往中国。
“As adoptees enter adolescence and deal with issues all adolescents deal with, as part of identity development, some want to search for their roots and connect to the first or genetic family,” said Victor Groza, the director of the Child Welfare Fellows Program at the Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences at Case Western Reserve University. “Others want to connect to their culture and are less concerned about the birth family and more about who they are as a cultural person. Others just want to establish who they are in the context of the peer and culture in which they live.”
“在收养儿童进入青春期，并面对所有青少年都会遇到的问题的时候，作为身份认同发展的一部分，一些人希望寻找自己的根源，了解自己的最初或亲生家庭，”凯斯西储大学曼德尔应用社会科学学院(Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences at Case Western Reserve University)儿童福利研究员项目主任维克多·格罗扎(Victor Groza)说。“还有一些人希望能够多了解自己的文化，对自己的亲生家庭没那么关心，而是更注重自己在文化上应如何自处。有些人只想跟从自己生活背景下的同辈和文化建立身份认同。”
Many of the children wish to find their birth parents, a process that is nearly impossible in China, since many were abandoned on the street without paperwork. Nor is there a national system that keeps track of these children or their birth parents. Others may just want to move on. Ms. Han tried to help one of her subjects find her birth parents through the hospital and local police department, but when she located the father, he acknowledged who he was, then drove away in his car.
许多收养儿童希望寻找自己的亲生父母，但鉴于他们很多都是被抛弃的，没有相应的记录，在中国寻亲几乎不可能。中国亦没有全国系统可以追踪记录这些孩子或他们的亲生父母。还有些孩子只是想把这些抛在脑后。韩萌曾试图帮助其中一个，通过医院和当地警方寻找她的亲生父母。但当她找到了这名收养儿童的父亲后，此人承认了自己是父亲，然后就驾车离开了。
Even if it is difficult to accept one’s own birth child later, through her work, Ms. Han has found that in general many Chinese appreciate and feel grateful that these orphans are adopted by Americans.
尽管很难在之后再去接受自己的亲生孩子，但韩萌通过这个计划发现，整体来说，很多中国人对美国人收养这些孤儿的举动是心存感激的。
“I also feel so thankful that these children were given better lives by these American families,” Ms. Han said. “On the other hand, I would like to give Chinese adoptees voice. How they feel and how adoption impacts them in their lives. I hope that this project will be a culture bridge. Even if Chinese adoptees are Americans, they still have some connections to China.”
“我也很感谢这些美国家庭给了他们更好的生活，”韩萌说。“另一方面，我还想替这些华裔收养儿童发声，说出他们的感受和收养对他们生活的影响。我希望这个项目能成为一道文化桥梁。即使华裔收养儿童现在是美国公民身份，但仍与中国有着千丝万缕的联系。”