He was one of North Korea’s deadliest secret agents.
他曾是朝鲜最具杀伤力的间谍之一。
On Oct. 9, 1983, Kang Min-chul and two other North Korean agents bombed the Martyrs' Museum in Rangoon, Burma, in a plot to kill the South Korean president, who was to have laid a wreath there. The bomb missed its mark — the president’s car had been delayed — but 17 South Koreans, including four cabinet ministers, were killed.
1983年10月9日，姜民哲（Kang Min-chul，音译）和另外两名朝鲜特工炸毁了缅甸仰光的烈士陵园，密谋杀害到访的韩国总统。按行程安排，总统那时应该刚刚献了花圈。然而炸弹没能击中目标。总统乘坐的车迟到了。但17名韩国人，其中包括四名内阁部长，在袭击中丧生。
For his deed, Mr. Kang was consigned to oblivion. North Korea denied any connection with the attack. In South Korea, where the bombing was declared a North Korean atrocity, few cared to remember that a North Korean was languishing in a Burmese prison for it. In 2008, Mr. Kang died at the age of 53. During 25 years in prison, he received not a single visitor from his homeland.
因为姜民哲的这一行为，他被所有人遗忘。朝鲜否认和那次袭击有任何关系，韩国宣布爆炸是朝鲜制造的暴行，在韩国，几乎没有人想要记住一个因为那次事件而在缅甸的监狱里煎熬的朝鲜人。2008年，姜民哲去世，终年53岁。在他被关押的25年时间里，没有任何一个来自他祖国的人前来探望。
Today, 30 years after the bombing, his story has been resurrected in an unlikely quarter: Ra Jong-yil, a former deputy director of the South Korean National Intelligence Service, North Korea’s adversary, has written a book about Mr. Kang called “Forgotten Terrorist.”
如今，爆炸发生30年后，他的故事在一个意想不到的地方重见天日：朝鲜的对手、韩国国家情报院(South Korean National Intelligence Service)前副院长罗钟一(Ra Jong-yil)写了一本关于姜民哲的书，题为《被遗忘的恐怖分子》(Forgotten Terrorist)。
Though the author is quick to label Mr. Kang an “atrocious criminal,” his book is a requiem for people he calls “the erased” — the thousands of young men from both Koreas who were trained as secret fighters of the Cold War. It excoriates political leaders on both sides who denied the men’s existence after their missions went wrong, never informing their families or the public of their fate.
尽管作者毫不迟疑地将姜民哲定性为一个“凶残的罪犯”，但他的书却在为那些他所说的“被抹去”的人安魂。这些“被抹去”的人有成千上万名，这些年轻人来自韩国和朝鲜，经过训练后成了冷战时期的秘密战士。这本书对两国的政治领袖都进行了猛烈抨击，在这些人的任务出了差错后，领导人否认他们的存在，也并未将他们的命运告知其家人或公众。
“I have no intention of glorifying him,” said Mr. Ra, who is also a political scientist and former university president. “But I feel more anguish and anger at those who took no responsibility for putting him in the situation he was in and did nothing about it and buried it. He was one of the countless young men sacrificed in the long rivalry between the two Koreas and then forgotten.”
“我无意颂扬他，”罗钟一说。“但想到那些将姜民哲置于他当时所处的境地，却没有出来承担责任，什么也不做，还掩盖这件事的人，我会感到更加痛苦和愤怒。他是那些在韩国和朝鲜长期对峙中牺牲，后来又被遗忘的无数年轻人之一。”罗钟一是一名政治学家，曾担任大学校长。
For decades after the Korean War ended in a truce in 1953, the two Koreas pursued a covert war, slipping agents across the border as spies or assassins. From time to time, South Koreans caught glimpses of Northern infiltrators. In 1996, a North Korean submarine ran aground on the South’s eastern coast, spilling out 26 crewmen and agents. Eleven were later found dead in a circle on a mountaintop, each with a bullet hole in the head. In 1998, another North Korean submarine was stranded off the same coast. When South Korean officials opened its hatch, they found nine men with bullet wounds in their heads or chests.
朝鲜战争在1953年以一纸停战协议画上句号，自那以来的几十年间，韩朝两国一直在进行秘密战争，它们将特工作为间谍或杀手偷偷运送过境。韩国不时会发现朝鲜卧底的踪迹。1996年，一艘朝鲜潜艇在韩国东海岸搁浅，其中共有包括船员和特工在内的26人。后来，在一处山顶发现了其中11人的尸体围成了一个圈，头部各有一个弹孔。1998年，另一艘朝鲜潜艇又在同一海岸搁浅。当韩国官员打开舱盖时，他们发现了9名男子，其头部或胸部均有枪伤。
South Korean officials said many of the North Koreans killed themselves rather than be caught by the South Korean authorities, and thus spare their loved ones from being labeled “families of traitors.” The nature of some men’s wounds, however, suggested that they were executed.
韩国官员称，许多朝鲜人不愿被韩国当局抓到而是选择自杀，这样就可以让他们的亲人免于被贴上“叛徒家属”的标签。然而，一些人的伤口显示，他们是被处决的。
It was not just North Korea that trained secret agents. An estimated 6,200 South Korean men remain unaccounted for after infiltrating the North. After years of appeals by former agents, Seoul has begun a low-key program to compensate their families, some of whom did not even know they were agents.
并不只是朝鲜训练了特工。据估计，有大约6200名韩国人在渗透到朝鲜后至今仍下落不明。在经过前特工的多年申诉后，韩国官方开始了一个低调的项目来补偿特工的家人，这些家人中有一些过去甚至不知道他们是特工。
Mr. Ra based his book on court records from Mr. Kang’s trial, and interviews with former inmates and wardens who had befriended Mr. Kang in Insein Prison near Yangon, as Rangoon is now known. Mr. Kang’s main target in the bombing was South Korea’s president, Chun Doo-hwan. But the Burmese foreign minister, U Chit Hlaing, arrived a few minutes late to escort Mr. Chun from his guesthouse, a fateful delay. Mr. Chun’s car was still a mile away when the remote-controlled bombs went off.
罗钟一的书是基于姜民哲的庭审记录，及对其前狱友和监狱长的采访写成的。姜民哲被关在仰光附近的永盛监狱(Insein Prison)时和他们成了朋友。姜民哲实施爆炸的主要目标是当时的韩国总统全斗焕(Chun Doo-hwan)。但缅甸的外交部长漆莱(Chit Hlaing)到全斗焕下榻的酒店陪同他一起去烈士陵园时迟到了几分钟，这几分钟扭转了全斗焕的命运。当遥控炸弹爆炸时，全斗焕乘坐的汽车还在一英里（约合1.6公里）之外。
After watching the blast from a distance, Mr. Kang and the two other agents, Kim Jin-su and Shin Ki-chul, ran to the Yangon River, where a speedboat was supposed to take them to a North Korean freighter.
在一定距离之外的姜民哲和另两名特工金镇寿（Kim Jin-su，音译）和申基哲（Shin Ki-chul，音译）看到爆炸后，便跑向了仰光河，那里本来应该有一艘快艇等着把他们送到一艘朝鲜货船上。
The boat was not there, according to Mr. Ra’s book, which reconstructed the scene based on Burmese government documents and other sources. The men split up and walked or swam down the river, not knowing that the freighter was not there either. It had been denied entry into Yangon Harbor. The Burmese police and troops caught up with them. Mr. Shin was killed in a gunfight.
罗钟一在书中根据缅甸的政府文件和其他一些信息重现了当时的场景。书中写道，当时快艇没在那里。于是三人分散开，步行或游向河的下游，他们不知道，下游也没有什么货船。仰光港没有准许那艘船进入。缅甸警方和部队抓住了他们，申基哲在枪战中身亡。
Both Mr. Kim and Mr. Kang were arrested with severe wounds after their grenades exploded in their hands. Mr. Ra said he believed the grenades had been modified by North Korean spymasters so that they would explode immediately and kill the agents to remove any evidence of the North’s involvement.
金镇寿和姜民哲的手榴弹在手上炸开，被捕时他们都身受重伤。罗钟一说，他相信朝鲜情报部门的头目改装了这些手榴弹，这样一来它们就能立刻爆炸，炸死特工，不留下任何与朝鲜相关的证据。
Mr. Kim, who lost an arm and an eye, refused to answer questions and was executed. Mr. Kang, who also lost an arm, confessed and received a suspended death sentence. In prison, Mr. Kang learned the Burmese language and how to climb the mango trees in the prison yard with one arm, Mr. Ra’s book said. Fellow inmates remembered him worrying about what might have happened to his mother and sister in North Korea because of his confession. He converted to Christianity and an inmate baptized him as “Matthew.”
金镇寿失去了一条手臂和一只眼睛，他拒绝回答任何问题，很快就被处决。姜民哲也失去了一条手臂，但他供认了罪行，被判处死缓。罗钟一的书里写道，在监狱里，姜民哲学会了缅甸语，还学会了如何用一只手爬上监狱院子里的芒果树。同狱犯人还记得他时常担心，因为自己供认了罪行，他在朝鲜的母亲和姐妹可能已遭遇不测。他皈依了基督教，一位狱友为他施洗礼并命名马修(Matthew)。
Mr. Ra came upon Mr. Kang’s case almost by chance. He had read an intelligence brief on Mr. Kang while perusing files for an official visit to Yangon in 1998.
罗钟一发现姜民哲的案例几乎纯属偶然。1998年，他在准备对仰光的正式访问时，开始详读一些文件，其中就看到了一份有关姜民哲的情报简报。
It said Mr. Kang had received no visitors during his 15 years in custody and had fallen into a state of acute despair.
简报说，姜民哲在15年的服刑期间没有一位访客，已经陷入了极度的绝望。
Mr. Ra was touched by the case. “I felt a sense of guilt,” he said in the interview. “Is it right to let the man bear all the responsibility alone and die a painful death? The leaders of South and North Korea later exchanged envoys and talked about reconciliation, praising each other, but said nothing about the man who was locked in a foreign prison with a mangled body. Is it right for us to live as if nothing had happened?”
罗钟一被这一案例深深触动。“我感到一丝愧疚，”他在采访中说道。“让一个人独自承担所有的责任，在痛苦中死去，这样对吗？韩国和朝鲜的领导人后来派遣了特使互访商谈和解事宜，还互相称赞对方。但是谁都没有提到那位肢体残缺、关在外国监狱里的人。我们就好像什么都没发生过似的这样生活，这样对吗？”
He persuaded Gen. Khin Nyunt, who was intelligence chief and later prime minister of the country now known as Myanmar, to allow South Korean diplomats to call on Mr. Kang, bringing him food and news about Korea. Mr. Kang told them and fellow inmates then that, if freed, he hoped to go to South Korea.
他说服了时任军情局局长、后来成为缅甸总理的钦纽上将(Khin Nyunt)，允许韩国外交官探望姜民哲，给他带些食物和有关朝鲜半岛的消息。姜民哲告诉他们以及他当时的狱友，如果获释，他希望能去韩国。
The diplomats’ visits ended when Gen. Khin Nyunt was deposed as prime minister in 2004. Mr. Ra appealed to the South Korean government to negotiate for Mr. Kang’s release.
然而，当2004年钦纽被免去总理职务后，大使们对姜民哲的探望便中断了。罗钟一向韩国政府呼吁，要求他们协调释放姜民哲。
But Seoul, by then preoccupied with its Sunshine Policy of reconciliation with North Korea, hesitated to do anything that might disrupt its overtures to Pyongyang.
但是，当时的韩国政府一心想要推行与朝鲜和解的“阳光政策”(Sunshine Policy)，不愿做任何可能会影响对朝友好关系的事。
“For both Korean governments, it was much more comfortable to keep Kang in prison,” Mr. Ra said. “He was denied by North Korea and ignored by South Korea.”
“对那时的韩朝两国政府来说，让姜民哲留在监狱里都是更省心的选择，”罗钟一说道。“朝鲜否认他的存在，而韩国无视他的存在。”
Mr. Kang lived out his last days in despondence, Mr. Ra said. He was afraid for his life, especially after North Korean diplomats returned to Yangon in 2007, when relations that had been severed over the bombing were restored. He feared his food might be poisoned. He told wardens and fellow inmates that he had no country to go to even if he was freed.
罗钟一说，姜民哲在极度绝望中度过了余生。他担心自己会有生命危险，特别是在2007年之后。那一年，朝鲜和缅甸恢复了两国在爆炸事件后切断的外交关系，朝鲜使节又回到了仰光。他担心自己的食物会被下毒。他告诉监狱长和狱友们，即使他被释放了，也是有国难投。
He developed liver cancer and died on May 18, 2008. Mr. Ra has since asked Myanmar officials what happened to Mr. Kang’s remains. “They didn’t know,” he said. “They said I was the first and only one to ask.”
他患上了肝癌，于2008年5月18日去世。罗钟一一直在询问缅甸官员姜民哲遗骨的下落。“他们不知道，”他说。“他们说，我是第一个，也是唯一一个问及此事的人。”