For 20 years, Alicia Machado has lived with the agony of what Donald J. Trump did to her after she won the Miss Universe title: shame her, over and over, for gaining weight.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)在艾丽西亚·马查多(Alicia Machado)赢得“环球小姐”称号后的所作所为，20年来一直困扰着她：因为她体重增加，唐纳德曾一而再、再而三地羞辱她。
Private scolding was apparently insufficient. Mr. Trump, who was an executive producer of the pageant, insisted on accompanying Ms. Machado, then a teenager, to a gym, where dozens of reporters and cameramen watched as she exercised.
私下的责骂显然是不够的。当时担任该选美活动监制的特朗普还坚持陪着还是少女的马查多去健身房，让她在数十名记者和摄影师的注视下锻炼身体。
Mr. Trump, in his trademark suit and tie, posed for photographs beside her as she burned calories in front of the news media. “This is somebody who likes to eat,” Mr. Trump said from inside the gym.
特朗普身着他标志性的西服领带，在马查多当着媒体面前燃烧卡路里时，在她身旁摆姿势拍照。“这是一个喜欢吃的人，”特朗普在健身房里说。
On Monday night, Hillary Clinton turned Ms. Machado’s pain into a potent political weapon on the biggest possible stage.
周一晚上，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)将马查多的痛苦变成强有力的政治武器，用在了一个无比巨大的舞台上。
In the process, the first female presidential nominee of a major party elevated a largely forgotten tale of Mr. Trump, when his oversight of beauty pageants collided with his unforgiving fixation with female beauty.
在这个过程中，作为首位得到重要政党总统提名的女性，克林顿着重提起特朗普的一个基本已被遗忘的故事，当时他对选美比赛的督导责任与他对女性美貌的固执追求发生了冲突。
And Mrs. Clinton put a spotlight on Ms. Machado, Miss Universe 1996, who says she never fully recovered from the experience. Ms. Machado, who grew up in Venezuela, said she had suffered eating disorders and psychological trauma as a result of the episode.
克林顿将公众的注意力转到1996年的“环球小姐”马查多身上。后者表示自己一直没能完全从那段经历中走出。在委内瑞拉长大的马查多表示，因为那段经历，她患上了进食障碍，也留下了心理创伤。
“I was sick — anorexia and bulimia for five years,” she said in an interview with The New York Times in May. “I was 18. My personality wasn’t created yet. I was just a girl.”
“我当时病了——患神经性厌食症和贪食症有五年时间，”她在今年5月接受《纽约时报》采访时说。“我当时18岁。人格还没建立。只是个女孩。”
Mr. Trump has acknowledged pressuring her to lose weight, saying it was her job as Miss Universe to remain in peak physical shape. On Tuesday morning, he made no apologies for that.
特朗普承认曾向她施压，要她减轻体重，但同时表示作为“环球小姐”，保持最佳体型是她的工作。周二上午，他没有为此向她道歉。
“She gained a massive amount of weight, and it was a real problem,” he told Fox News.
“她体重大增，那的确是个问题，”他对福克斯新闻频道讲。
On the debate stage, Mrs. Clinton seized on his conduct. At the end of Monday night’s 90-minute confrontation, she reminded viewers of Mr. Trump’s frequently crude remarks about women and their bodies.
在辩论的舞台上，克林顿抓住他的行为加以利用。在周一晚上那90分钟的对抗接近尾声时，她提醒观众注意特朗普就女性及其身体频繁发表的粗鲁言论。
“One of the worst things he said was about a woman in a beauty contest. He loves beauty contests, supporting them and hanging around them,” Mrs. Clinton said as she slowly unfurled the story.
“他说过的最恶毒的话之一，是针对一个参加选美比赛的女性。他喜欢选美比赛，支持这类比赛，常参与其中，”克林顿一点点展开这个故事。
“And he called this woman ‘Miss Piggy.’ Then he called her ‘Miss Housekeeping,’ because she was Latina.”
“她称这名女性是‘猪猪小姐’。后来又叫她‘家政小姐’，因为她是拉丁美洲人。”
Mrs. Clinton paused.
克林顿停顿了一下。
“Donald, she has a name: Her name is Alicia Machado.”
“唐纳德，她有名字的：她叫艾丽西亚·马查多。”
Mr. Trump, clearly furious, interrupted.
唐纳德明显很愤怒，他打断了克林顿。
“Where did you find this? Where did you find this?”
“你在哪儿看到的？你在哪儿看到的？”
Mrs. Clinton concluded with a kicker looking forward to Election Day.
克林顿话锋一转，对大选日进行了展望。
“She has become a U.S. citizen, and you can bet she’s going to vote this November.”
“她已经成为了一名美国公民，可以肯定，她会在今年11月参加投票。”
Ms. Machado, in a series of interviews this year with The Times, recalled the experience and its long-term impact on her life for an article about how Mr. Trump treats women.
为一篇有关特朗普如何对待女性的报道，马查多今年曾多次接受了时报的采访。她回忆了那段经历，以及它对自己生活的长期影响。
By her account, she gained about 12 pounds after becoming Miss Universe. Mr. Trump was not pleased. He said she had gained even more.
据她回忆，在当选“环球小姐”之后，她的体重增加了12磅。特朗普为此感到不满。他说她。
Ms. Machado recalled the specific taunts from Mr. Trump that Mrs. Clinton invoked on Monday night, as well as another sobriquet: “Miss Eating Machine.”
马查多记得特朗普奚落她的那些话。除了克林顿周一晚上提起的那些，还有一条是：“吃饭机器小姐”。
Now, Ms. Machado is an avid supporter of Mrs. Clinton. She appeared in an ad criticizing Mr. Trump. Since her setback in 1996, her career has blossomed. She is now a well-known actress in Latin America.
现在，马查多是克林顿的一名热心支持者。她参演了一则批评特朗普的广告。自1996年的挫折之后，她的事业一帆风顺。如今她是在拉丁美洲很出名的演员。
But the scar, she says, still remains.
但她表示自己的伤疤还在。
“Over the past 20 years,” Ms. Machado said, “I’ve gone to a lot of psychologists to combat this.”
“在过去20年里，”马查多说。“为了战胜这个问题，我看了很多心理医生。”