SEOUL, South Korea — The soldiers beat the 20-year-old private almost every day for more than a month. They flogged him with a mop handle until it broke. They made him eat toothpaste and lick their spittle off the floor. At one point, when he became groggy, they hooked him up to an intravenous drip, gave him nutrients and then, when he seemed to regain energy, they kicked and punched him some more.
韩国首尔——在一个多月的时间里，士兵们几乎天天殴打这个20岁的一等兵。他们用拖把杆打他，直到把杆子打折。他们逼他吃牙膏，舔他们吐在地上的唾沫。有一次，他们给虚弱不堪的他静脉注射了营养液，在他看起来恢复了体力之后，又开始拳打脚踢。
According to South Korean Army investigators, the abuse finally ended on April 6, when the victim, who has been identified only as Private First Class Yoon, collapsed, choking on a piece of food during a beating. He was pronounced dead at a hospital the next day.
韩国陆军的调查人员说，这些虐待行为在4月6日结束，那天，这个被称作“一等兵尹某”的受害者，因为被殴打时食物堵住气管而不省人事。第二天，他在医院被宣布死亡。
The army issued a terse news release, saying that a soldier had died after choking while being beaten. The military indicted four soldiers on charges of inflicting bodily injury resulting in death, and 16 others were reprimanded.
韩国陆军发布了一则简短的消息，称一名士兵在被殴打时因食物堵住气管而死。军方以人身伤害致死罪起诉了四名士兵，另外16人受到了训斥。
The case at first drew little notice in South Korea — just another sad episode, it seemed, in an army where physical abuse was tolerated, if not officially approved, in the name of toughening a conscript army to face North Korea.
起初，这起案件在韩国几乎没有引起关注——只不过是又一起不幸事件，因为在韩国的军队，身体虐待是被容忍的，甚至可以说得到官方认可，理由是要建起一支强悍的征兵制部队以应对朝鲜。
But that changed last week, after a human rights group published the details from the army’s internal investigation, along with photos of Private Yoon’s body covered with bruises and gashes. The report prompted a public outcry, joined this week by President Park Geun-hye, expressing the widespread frustration that the army had not ended the culture of violence within its ranks.
但这种情况在上周发生了改变，此前一家人权机构公布了陆军内部调查获得的细节，以及一等兵尹某遍体鳞伤的照片。这份报告引起了轩然大波，总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)上周也表达了对军方未能终结部队暴力文化的失望之情。
“For decades, the military has promised to correct this problem whenever an incident like this happened, but it keeps recurring,” Ms. Park said at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday. “We must thoroughly investigate the perpetrators, and those who turned a blind eye, and punish them as a warning to others.”
“几十年来，每当有类似事件发生，军方都承诺纠正这个问题，但此类事件仍然层出不穷，”朴槿惠周二在内阁会议上说。“我们必须彻查凶手和纵容者，并对他们实施惩罚，以儆效尤。”
The episode has already prompted one top-level resignation: that of the army’s chief of staff on Tuesday. And the Defense Ministry has been flooded with angry messages from the public. “I am afraid to send my son to the military, not because he might be shot dead by the North Korean military but because he might be beaten to death by fellow South Korean soldiers,” one person posted.
这起事件已经引发了一名高层官员的辞职：陆军总参谋长周二递交了辞呈。国防部收到了公众大量愤怒的留言。有人写道：“我不敢让儿子参军，不是因为他可能被朝鲜军队打死，而是因为他可能被自己的战友打死。”
South Korea maintains a very large military for a country its size — 650,000 troops, most of them conscripts — as a bulwark against North Korea. Full-scale combat on the peninsula ended in 1953 with a truce, but technically the two countries remain at war. South Korean veterans say corporal punishment and abuse have been widespread and condoned for years as a way to enforce discipline among low-paid conscripts.
韩国有65万军队，其中多数是应征兵，对于韩国这样规模的国家，这个军队相当庞大，而这是为了构筑抵御朝鲜的堡垒。朝鲜半岛的全面战争在1953年签署了停战协议，但严格地说，两国仍处在战争状态。韩国老兵说，作为一种在低薪应征兵中加强纪律的方式，体罚和虐待非常普遍，多年来一直被容忍。
The military’s leadership has repeatedly pledged to end the practices, most notably in 2005 after it was revealed that cadets in an army boot camp had been forced to ingest human waste. The same year, an army private who had been abused killed eight fellow soldiers. The military promised change again in 2011 after a corporal killed four marines.
军队领导多次承诺终结暴行，特别是在2005年，当时有消息透露，新兵训练营的学员被迫吃人类粪便。同一年，一名遭到虐待的陆军士兵杀害了8名士兵。2011年，一名下士杀害了四名海军陆战队士兵，军方再次承诺进行改革。
This year, a sergeant in a front-line unit who had been bullied and ostracized was accused of going on a shooting rampage in June and killing five fellow soldiers. “You may have thrown a stone for fun, but for the frog hit by it, it is fatal,” the sergeant wrote in a note. He shot himself after an armed standoff with his unit, but survived.
今年，一名遭到虐待与排斥的前线部队军士被控在6月进行疯狂扫射，导致五名士兵死亡。这名军士在笔记中写道，“或许你们扔石头是为了好玩，但对于被击中的青蛙来说，这是致命的攻击。”他在与部队进行武力对峙后开枪自杀，但最终生还。
One of the angry comments received by the Defense Ministry was from a man who said he was considering helping his son avoid military service with surgery to deliberately damage a knee or other body part and make him medically unfit, as some young men have been known to do. That would be far better, the commenter said, than “having him killed like a dog by human scum in the military.”
国防部(Defense Ministry)收到很多愤怒的评论，其中一名批评人士称，他正在考虑帮助儿子避免服兵役，所用的手段是利用手术故意伤害膝盖或其他身体部位，使其无法通过体检，众所周知，很多年轻人都这么做。这名评论人士称，这要比“在部队里被人渣像狗一样打死”好得多。
Details from the military investigation of Private Yoon’s case were made public by the Center for Military Human Rights in Korea; the group has not said how it obtained the report. The director of the center, Lim Tae-hoon, said the case “shows how an entrenched evil mechanism of violence is inherited, as the victim turns into an abuser.”
韩国军队人权中心(Center for Military Human Rights)公布了军队对尹某案件调查的细节；该组织并没有说明是如何获得报告的。人权中心负责人林泰勋（Lim Tae-hoon，音译）表示，该案“说明了军队把受害者变成施虐者，让这种根深蒂固的邪恶暴力机制代代相传。”
The enlisted men in Private Yoon’s unit, a medical team attached to the 28th Division stationed north of Seoul, formed their own strict hierarchy, with the senior sergeant ruling “like an emperor” over the junior soldiers, Mr. Lim said.
尹某所在的部队是一支医疗队，隶属于驻扎在首尔北部的28师团(28th Division)。林泰勋表示，该部队的士兵形成了严格的等级制度，高级军士像“皇帝一样”统治低级别士兵。
The sergeant, who has been identified only by his surname, Lee, treated his juniors like punching bags, particularly the lowest-ranking private in the unit. After Private Yoon arrived in February, the other soldiers began doing to the newcomer what the sergeant and other superiors had done to them, according to the investigative documents.
这名只对外公布姓李的军士像对待拳击沙袋一样对待低级别士兵，特别是最低级别的那些。调查文件显示，在尹某于2月份来到部队后，其他士兵开始以上级曾经对待他们的方式对待新兵。