Last month, a group of high school students and their chaperons were ordered off a flight to Atlanta for refusing to sit down and turn off their cellphones. In May, six friends were removed from a flight to Las Vegas allegedly for talking loudly. In April, a 340-pound man said he was told to leave a Denver-bound plane because of his size.
上个月，一群高中生及其学校监护人在飞往亚特兰大的航班上，因拒绝落座并关闭手机被空乘人员赶下了飞机。5月份，6名结伴去拉斯维加斯旅行的朋友因讲话太大声而被航班驱逐。4月，一名340磅的男士说，他搭乘去丹佛的飞机时，因为体重问题被要求离开飞机。
Every few weeks we seem to hear about passengers being escorted off planes for the sorts of infractions that once only sent you to the principal’s office. Is this normal? Might you someday find yourself being taken off a plane for being uncooperative, kicking a seat back or caviling with a flight attendant (all real reasons that you can be removed)?
每隔几个星期，我们就会听到乘客被请出飞机，而原因只是犯了些可能被校长谈话级别的小错。这现象正常吗？也许有一天，你自己也会因不合作、踢了座椅后背或者与空乘人员产生龃龉（这些都是导致乘客被驱离航班的真实原因）而被赶下飞机？
The number of passengers classified as “unruly” cannot be accurately quantified. The Federal Aviation Administration tracks only the incidents that crew members choose to report. And its database does not include security violations (the Transportation Security Administration handles those). That said, the number of unruly passengers reported to the F.A.A. since 1995 (the earliest date in the online database) appears to be at an all-time low. There were 129 such passengers in 2012, down from 140 in 2011. The high was in 2004, when crew members reported 330 unruly passengers.
“不守规矩”乘客的具体数目很难统计。美国联邦航空管理局(Federal Aviation Administration)只记录那些空乘人员汇报上来的事件。它的数据库也不包括威胁安全的事件（这个由美国运输安全管理局[Transportation Security Administration]负责）。即便如此，自1995年（在线数据库能查到的最早年份）以来，汇报给美国联邦航空管理局的乘客不规矩行为数字一直很低。2012年这样的乘客有129人，与2011年的140人相比有所下降。数字的峰值出现在2004年，当年空乘汇报了330名不守规矩的乘客。
And then there’s the data from the International Air Transport Association. The trade group said its most recent available figures show that reported instances of unruliness increased about 29 percent between 2009 and 2010 (the F.A.A.’s figures show a decline in that period). Whatever the numbers, the association and flight attendants say it is a continuing problem.
接下来是国际航空运输协会(International Air Transport Association)的数据。这个行业协会说，最新统计数字显示，经汇报的不守规矩事件从2009年至2010年上升了29%（而美国联邦航空管理局这段时间的数字呈下降趋势）。不管具体数字是什么，该协会和空乘人员都说，乘客的不合作是个持续存在的问题。
“Which is why we were so outraged with the thought of knives coming back onboard,” said Veda Shook, international president of the Association of Flight Attendants, referring to the T.S.A. decision, since rescinded, to allow small knives in cabins.
“这就是让刀具重回机舱的主张让我们大发雷霆的原因。”空乘行业工会(Association of Flight Attendants)全球负责人维达·舒克(Veda Shook)说道。她指的是美国运输安全管理局的一个决定废除了小型刀具不能登机的规定。
“The plane in my view is just a microcosm of where we’re at in society today,” Ms. Shook said. Gone are the days of half-empty aircraft and unhurried travel. “Now the planes are packed. Everybody’s got to wait in lines.” That makes it imperative that passengers follow instructions.
“我认为，飞机不过是个小世界，反映出我们在社会中所处位置，”舒克说。缓慢旅行、乘客只占一半机舱的时代已经结束了，“现在，飞机常常拥挤不堪。每个人都要排队。”这种情况下，顾客按规矩行事就成了迫切的需要。
The Association of Flight Attendants refers to its union members as “aviation’s first responders,” and indeed their actions can save lives. Consider the flight attendants who helped evacuate the Asiana Airlines plane that crash-landed in San Francisco this month, or the Alaska Airlines attendants who in May restrained a passenger after he allegedly tried to open an emergency exit row window during the plane’s descent into Portland, Ore.
空乘行业工会将自己工会成员称作“航空飞行的现场急救员”，而且他们的职责确实包括拯救生命。想想这个月韩亚航空(Asiana Airlines)旧金山坠机事件中疏散乘客的空乘，或者5月份阿拉斯加航空(Alaska Airlines)即将在俄勒冈州波特兰降落时一名乘客称要打开紧急出口处的窗户时将他制服的空乘。
Yet consumer advocates and passengers who have been ordered off planes for seemingly petty infractions think some flight attendants abuse their power and that the broad language airlines use to define unruly behavior makes it difficult for passengers to know how to behave and, if necessary, defend themselves.
但是，用户权益维护者和曾因小事被请出飞机的人们认为，部分空乘人员滥用了自己的权力。此外，航空公司对不守规则行为的定义模糊而宽泛，这让游客无法明白自己该如何行事，而且在必要的时候很难维护自己的权益。
Ms. Shook said removing passengers from planes is a last recourse. However, there are consequences for those who do not follow a rule like turning off portable electronic devices.
舒克说，将乘客请下飞机是迫不得已时的最后策略。但是，那些拒绝遵守关闭便携式电子设备等规定的乘客肯定会面临严重的后果。
“For us that’s the biggest challenge,” Ms. Shook said. “That is where we’re seeing some unruly behavior.” Some passengers have the attitude that “those rules might be for everybody but me.”
“对我们来说，这是最大的挑战，”舒克说，“正是在这些时候，我们常常看到不规矩行行为的发生。”有些乘客会认为“这些规则是为别人制定的，我不必遵守”。
A passenger might not think refusing to shut off a phone is a big deal, but not adhering to a simple request on the ground suggests that you might not be cooperative in a more serious situation.
乘客也许认为，不关手机不是什么大事，但不遵守简单指令这件事显示在更加严肃的场合你可能也不会有合作态度。
“If they refuse to turn off their phone,” Ms. Shook said, “we don’t want to predict what would happen in flight. It could be far worse if you’re up in the air.”
“如果他们不关手机，”舒克女士说，“我们无法预测这次飞行会发生什么事。如果大家身在高空，后果会严重得多。”
On the ground, passengers can be turned over to airport authorities. In the air, the plane might have to be diverted or the passenger restrained.
在地面的时候，乘客可以被扭送到机场管理部门。但在高空中，飞机可能就要被迫改道，乘客也要受到各种不利影响。
“We’re there to protect the safety of passengers,” she said.
“我们是为了确保乘客的安全，”她说。
When deciding whether a passenger should be removed from a plane, cabin crews are encouraged to trust their judgment. That leaves them with the job of trying to parse impolite behavior or traits (like talking loudly) from potentially dangerous behavior.
至于哪些行为会导致乘客被请出飞机，现有规则鼓励机舱人员自己决定。所以，辨识不礼貌的行为特征（比如大声讲话）和有潜在危险的行为，就成了机舱工作人员的责任。
No one wants surly passengers on a flight. And there is no telling how many terrible situations have been avoided because perceptive flight attendants have had passengers removed from planes. But consumer advocates say that the broad and vague language that airlines use to define unruly behavior (found in their Contract of Carriage) is unfair to passengers because it is unclear what can get them tossed off a plane and renders them unable to defend themselves.
谁也不希望航班中出现乖戾难驯的乘客。而且谁也不知道，那些将乘客请出飞机的空乘人员避免了多少灾难事件的发生。但消费者权益维护人士说，航空公司在定义不遵守指令行为时使用空泛而含糊的语言对乘客们非常不公平，因为他们不知道哪些行为会导致自己被赶下飞机，而且无法维护自己的权益。
“We have heard of passengers being told to get off a plane because of a ‘look’ or being too ‘anxious’ or having too ‘tense a tone’ when they answer a flight attendant,” said Kate Hanni, the founder of FlyersRights.org, the largest nonprofit airline consumer group in the country. Ms. Hanni said it has tried unsuccessfully to persuade the F.A.A. to create a set of rules or legal standards so that passengers know precisely which behaviors to avoid. Currently, a flight attendant can remove a passenger for not obeying instructions or if a passenger presents a risk.
“我们听过乘客因回答空乘问题时一个‘眼神’或‘神情焦虑’或‘语气紧张’就被赶下飞机的事，”乘客权益网(FlyersRights.org)创始人凯特·汉尼(Kate Hanni)说道。乘客权益网是美国维护航空产品消费者权益领域规模最大的非盈利组织。汉尼说，为了让乘客明白哪些行为应当避免，他们的组织多次试图游说美国联邦航空管理局制定一套详细规则或法定标准，但至今没有成功。现在，空乘人员可以在乘客不听话或可能存在危险时将乘客请出飞机。
“But ‘risk’ is completely subjective,” she said, “and when you have flight attendants and crews from different backgrounds and cultures you get a different set of rules that no one knows on every flight.”
“但‘风险’这个词非常主观。”她说，“如果空乘人员和乘客来自不同的背景和文化，你那套规则可能就不是所有乘客都能理解的。”
A guide to preventing and managing unruly passengers by the International Air Transport Association says that “incidents are occurring regularly, on all airlines and in every cabin class.” Published late last year, it is the group’s first effort to bring together information in various documents and manuals. It defines unruly passengers as those who fail to follow crew instructions and onboard rules of conduct.
国际航空运输协会(International Air Transport Association)发布的一个用于防范和管理不守规则乘客的指南说，“意外事件一直都在发生，每趟航班、每个机场都有。”这个去年下半年发布的指南是该组织试图将不同文件和手册的信息综合集成的首次尝试。它规定，不守规矩的乘客指的是不听从空乘人员或机场地面工作人员指令的乘客。
Examples of disruptive behavior listed in the manual go beyond not complying with safety procedures like fastening your seat belt. Such behavior is also described as appearing agitated or numb or using profane language. It can be “communicating displeasure through voice tone or rude gesture, provoking an argument or making unreasonable demands,” like refusing to “give up on a denied request.”
手册中列出的不驯行为不仅包括不系安全带等不遵守安全流程的行为，还有面露怒火、反应迟钝或使用猥亵语言等行为，甚至可能包括“因语调或粗鲁姿势导致的沟通不快、激起争论或提出不合理请求”，比如“要求被拒绝以后继续纠缠”。
(Also unruly: belting out the Dolly Parton song “I Will Always Love You,” which a woman did in May during an American Airlines flight to New York until it was diverted to Kansas City, Mo., where she was escorted off the plane.)
（同样不同规则的还有：引吭高唱多丽·帕顿[Dolly Parton]的歌《我会永远爱你》[I Will Always Love You]。5月份，一名妇女在美国航空去往纽约的航班上一直高唱此歌，后来飞机不得不改道密苏里州堪萨斯市，然后将该妇女请下了飞机）。
One way to educate yourself is to search online for the name of your airline and “Contract of Carriage.” The contract will include a section listing the reasons the airline may refuse to transport you, or remove you from your flight. The “conditions of carriage” for American Airlines, for instance, explain that the airline can remove you for refusing to obey instructions from any flight crew member but also for things like having “an offensive odor not caused by a disability or illness” or being “clothed in a manner that would cause discomfort or offense to other passengers.”
自学航班规则的方法之一是上网搜索，键入你所乘航空公司的名字和“承运协议”。协议会列举航空公司可能拒绝你登机或将你请出飞机的一系列事由。比如，美国航空公司的“承运条款”说明，如果乘客不遵守任何航空工作人员的指令，或者“因疾病或残疾以外的原因而发出令人反感的臭味”或者“穿衣风格可能让其他乘客感觉不快或被冒犯”，航空公司都可以将他请出飞机。
Ms. Hanni advises travelers always to follow flight attendants’ instructions. If you believe you have been removed from a flight unfairly, you can file a complaint with the Department of Transportation’s consumer protection division at Airconsumer.ost.dot.gov/escomplaint/es.cfm. You can also call Flyers Rights at (877) 359-3776. They will walk you through the complaint process and send a letter to the department asking for an investigation.
汉尼建议说，旅行者应该永远听从空乘人员的指令。如果你认为自己被不公正地逐出飞机，可以向美国交通运输部(Department of Transportation)的消费者权益保护部门提起投诉，网址是Airconsumer.ost.dot.gov/escomplaint/es.cfm。也可以致电飞行者权益组织(Flyers Rights)，号码是(877)359-3776。他们会带你走过整个投诉程序，并向有关部门写信，要求进行调查。