IN the spring of 2010, a new patient came to see me to find out if he had attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. He had all the classic symptoms: procrastination, forgetfulness, a propensity to lose things and, of course, the inability to pay attention consistently. But one thing was unusual. His symptoms had started only two years earlier, when he was 31.
2010年春，一名新患者来找我看病，看他是否患有注意力缺陷多动障碍（Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder，简称ADHD）。他表现出所有的典型症状：拖延、健忘、习惯性地丢三落四，当然还有不能持续保持注意力的问题。但有一个不同寻常的地方。他的这些症状两年前才出现，当时他已31岁。
Though I treat a lot of adults for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, the presentation of this case was a violation of an important diagnostic criterion: symptoms must date back to childhood. It turned out he first started having these problems the month he began his most recent job, one that required him to rise at 5 a.m., despite the fact that he was a night owl.
虽然我看过不少ADHD的成年患者，但这一病例还是有违一项重要的诊断标准：症状必须在儿童时期就出现了。其实是这样，他首次开始出现这些症状是在他换了新工作的那个月，新工作需要他早上5点起床，而他是个有夜猫子习惯的人。
The patient didn’t have A.D.H.D., I realized, but a chronic sleep deficit. I suggested some techniques to help him fall asleep at night, like relaxing for 90 minutes before getting in bed at 10 p.m. If necessary, he could take a small amount of melatonin. When he returned to see me two weeks later, his symptoms were almost gone. I suggested he call if they recurred. I never heard from him again.
我发现，他患的不是ADHD，而是长期睡眠不足。我向他推荐了一些有助于他在晚上入睡的技巧，比如在10点上床之前放松90分钟。如有必要，他可以服用小剂量的褪黑素。当他在两周后再来看病时，他的症状几乎完全消失了。我建议他如果症状复发，就给我打电话，但我再也没有接到过他的电话。
Many theories are thrown around to explain the rise in the diagnosis and treatment of A.D.H.D. in children and adults. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 11 percent of school-age children have now received a diagnosis of the condition. I don’t doubt that many people do, in fact, have A.D.H.D.; I regularly diagnose and treat it in adults. But what if a substantial proportion of cases are really sleep disorders in disguise?
人们抛出各种理论来解释为什么被诊断为患有ADHD并因此接受治疗的儿童和成人人数上升。根据美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)的数据，如今有11%的学龄儿童被诊断为ADHD患者。我不怀疑很多人确实患有ADHD；我经常确诊并治疗成人患者。但是，假如相当一部分的病例实际上是被误诊的睡眠障碍，结果会怎样呢？
For some people — especially children — sleep deprivation does not necessarily cause lethargy; instead they become hyperactive and unfocused. Researchers and reporters are increasingly seeing connections between dysfunctional sleep and what looks like A.D.H.D., but those links are taking a long time to be understood by parents and doctors.
对一些人、特别是儿童来说，睡眠不足不一定会让他们无精打采；相反，他们会变得多动且无法集中注意力。研究人员和记者越来越多地注意到，睡眠失调与看似ADHD的症状之间存在联系，但这些联系是很长时间后才被父母和医生了解清楚的。
We all get less sleep than we used to. The number of adults who reported sleeping fewer than seven hours each night went from some 2 percent in 1960 to more than 35 percent in 2011. Sleep is even more crucial for children, who need delta sleep — the deep, rejuvenating, slow-wave kind — for proper growth and development. Yet today’s youngsters sleep more than an hour less than they did a hundred years ago. And for all ages, contemporary daytime activities — marked by nonstop 14-hour schedules and inescapable melatonin-inhibiting iDevices — often impair sleep. It might just be a coincidence, but this sleep-restricting lifestyle began getting more extreme in the 1990s, the decade with the explosion in A.D.H.D. diagnoses.
我们如今都比过去睡得少。称每晚睡眠少于7小时的成人数从1960年的大约2%上升到2011年的35%。睡眠对儿童来说尤为重要，儿童需要慢波睡眠——深沉的、恢复活力的那种慢波睡眠——才能良好成长和发育。但如今的年轻人比100年前的年轻人每天少睡一个多小时。对所有年龄的人来说，现代的日间活动，以马不停蹄的14小时日程表和难以避免的对褪黑素有抑制作用的苹果设备为标志，这类活动往往会削弱睡眠。这也许只是巧合，这种限制睡眠的生活方式从上世纪90年代开始越来越走向极端，而那个年代也是诊断ADHD病例爆发的10年。
A number of studies have shown that a huge proportion of children with an A.D.H.D. diagnosis also have sleep-disordered breathing like apnea or snoring, restless leg syndrome or non-restorative sleep, in which delta sleep is frequently interrupted.
一些研究表明，被诊断为ADHD的儿童中有很大一部分也有睡眠障碍性呼吸，如呼吸暂停或打鼾、不宁腿综合征，或非恢复性睡眠，指的是慢波睡眠不时被打断。
One study, published in 2004 in the journal Sleep, looked at 34 children with A.D.H.D. Every one of them showed a deficit of delta sleep, compared with only a handful of the 32 control subjects.
一项2004年发表在《睡眠》(Sleep)期刊的研究，对34名ADHD患儿做了观察，所有患儿都表现出缺乏慢波睡眠，而对照组的32个儿童中，只有少数人表现了缺乏慢波睡眠。
A 2006 study in the journal Pediatrics showed something similar, from the perspective of a surgery clinic. This study included 105 children between ages 5 and 12. Seventy-eight of them were scheduled to have their tonsils removed because they had problems breathing in their sleep, while 27 children scheduled for other operations served as a control group. Researchers measured the participants’ sleep patterns and tested for hyperactivity and inattentiveness, consistent with standard protocols for validating an A.D.H.D. diagnosis.
一项2006年发表在《小儿科》(Pediatrics)期刊的研究，从外科临床的角度，发现了类似的情况。该研究包括105名年龄在5岁到12岁之间的儿童。他们中有78人因有睡眠呼吸障碍而做了切除扁桃体手术，其余27人则作为对照组接受其他手术。研究人员观察了参与者的睡眠模式，并检测其多动和不专心的程度，他们用的方法与验证ADHD诊断的标准方法一致。
Of the 78 children getting the tonsillectomies, 28 percent were found to have A.D.H.D., compared with only 7 percent of the control group.  
在接受扁桃体切除术的78名儿童中，28%的儿童被确诊患有ADHD，而得到这个诊断的在对照组中只有7%。
Even more stunning was what the study’s authors found a year after the surgeries, when they followed up with the children. A full half of the original A.D.H.D. group who received tonsillectomies — 11 of 22 children — no longer met the criteria for the condition. In other words, what had appeared to be A.D.H.D. had been resolved by treating a sleeping problem.
研究者们在这些儿童接受手术一年后对他们进行了回访，其发现更令人震惊。最初的ADHD患者，在做了扁桃体切除术后，有整整一半——22人中的11人——不再符合ADHD的确诊标准。换言之，最初看似ADHD的症状通过治疗睡眠问题而消失了。
But it’s also possible that A.D.H.D.-like symptoms can persist even after a sleeping problem is resolved. Consider a long-term study of more than 11,000 children in Britain published last year, also in Pediatrics. Mothers were asked about symptoms of sleep-disordered breathing in their infants when they were 6 months old. Then, when the children were 4 and 7 years old, the mothers completed a behavioral questionnaire to gauge their children’s levels of inattention, hyperactivity, anxiety, depression and problems with peers, conduct and social skills.
但另外一种情况也是可能的，与ADHD相似的症状在解决了睡眠问题后继续存在。让我们来看看去年发表在《小儿科》期刊上的一项针对1.1万多个英国儿童的长期研究。研究人员在婴儿只有半岁大时询问他们的母亲，婴儿是否有睡眠障碍性呼吸。接下来，在这些孩子四岁和七岁时，他们的母亲完成了一份行为问卷，评测其孩子不专心、多动、焦虑、抑郁的程度，以及和同龄人相处、行为和社会技能等。
The study found that children who suffered from sleep-disordered breathing in infancy were more likely to have behavioral difficulties later in life — they were 20 to 60 percent more likely to have behavioral problems at age 4, and 40 to 100 percent more likely to have such problems at age 7. Interestingly, these problems occurred even if the disordered breathing had abated, implying that an infant breathing problem might cause some kind of potentially irreversible neurological injury.
研究发现，在婴儿时期有睡眠障碍性呼吸的儿童，更可能在今后的生活中表现出行为问题，四岁时他们表现出行为问题的可能性增加20%到60%，到七岁时则增加40%到100%。有意思的是，即使障碍性呼吸得到缓解，他们还会表现出行为问题，这意味着婴儿时期的呼吸障碍可能会造成某种潜在的不可逆神经损伤。
CLEARLY there is more going on in the nocturnal lives of our children than any of us have realized. Typically, we see and diagnose only their downstream, daytime symptoms.
很明显，在儿童的夜间生命中有比我们所了解的多得多的事情。但通常我们只能看到和诊断出他们后来的日间症状。
There has been less research into sleep and A.D.H.D. outside of childhood. But a team from Massachusetts General Hospital found, in one of the only studies of its kind, that sleep dysfunction in adults with A.D.H.D. closely mimics the sleep dysfunction in children with A.D.H.D.
对童年期后的睡眠和ADHD所进行的研究比较少。但还是有个独一无二的这类研究，来自马萨诸塞州总医院(Massachusetts General Hospital)的一个团队发现，ADHD成年患者的睡眠失调症状与ADHD患儿的睡眠失调症状非常相似。
There is also some promising research being done on sleep in adults, relating to focus, memory and cognitive performance. A study published in February in the journal Nature Neuroscience found that the amount of delta sleep in seniors correlates with performance on memory tests. And a study published three years ago in Sleep found that while subjects who were deprived of sleep didn’t necessarily report feeling sleepier, their cognitive performance declined in proportion to their sleep deprivation and continued to worsen over five nights of sleep restriction.
也有一些正在做的针对成人睡眠的很有前景的研究，研究针对注意力、记忆力和认知表现。一项发表在2月份的《自然神经科学》(Nature Neuroscience)期刊上的研究发现，老年人的慢波睡眠量与其在记忆测试中的表现有关联。三年前发表在《睡眠》期刊上的一项研究发现，虽然睡眠不足的研究对象不一定会自我报告感到更困乏，但其认知下降的程度与睡眠不足成正比，在连续五个夜晚睡眠受限制后，他们的认知表现进一步持续恶化。
As it happens, “moves about excessively during sleep” was once listed as a symptom of attention-deficit disorder in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. That version of the manual, published in 1980, was the first to name the disorder. When the term A.D.H.D., reflecting the addition of hyperactivity, appeared in 1987, the diagnostic criteria no longer included trouble sleeping. The authors said there was not enough evidence to support keeping it in.
其实，《精神疾病诊断与统计手册》(Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders)曾将“在睡眠中过度活动”列为注意力缺陷障碍的症状。那本出版于1980年的《手册》，首次为这一障碍命名。增加了“多动”的ADHD名称出现在1987年，那以后，ADHD的诊断标准中不再包括睡眠问题。手册作者表示，没有足够证据支持继续把睡眠问题纳入诊断标准中。
But what if doctors, before diagnosing A.D.H.D. in their patients, did have to find evidence of a sleep disorder? Psychiatric researchers typically don’t have access to the equipment or expertise needed to evaluate sleep issues. It’s tricky to ask patients to keep sleep logs or to send them for expensive overnight sleep studies, which can involve complicated equipment like surface electrodes to measure brain and muscle activity; abdominal belts to record breathing; “pulse oximeters” to measure blood oxygen levels; even snore microphones. (And getting a sleep study approved by an insurance company is by no means guaranteed.) As it stands, A.D.H.D. can be diagnosed with only an office interview.
但是，如果医生在对病人作出ADHD诊断前，的确需要先寻找睡眠失调的证据，又会怎样呢？通常，精神疾病研究者不具有诊断睡眠问题的设备或者这方面的专业知识。让病人自己记录睡眠日记有点困难，让他们去做昂贵的整夜睡眠诊断也不容易，这需要使用复杂的设备，比如需要将表面电极贴在患者身上，以测量大脑和肌肉活动；让他们戴上腹带以记录呼吸；还要用“脉搏血氧仪”测量血氧饱和度；甚至还需要用鼾声探测器。（也不能保证保险公司会同意支付睡眠诊断的费用。）而目前，ADHD只需通过一次办公室里的面谈就可以做出诊断。
Sometimes my patients have resisted my referrals for sleep testing, since everything they have read (often through direct-to-consumer marketing by drug companies) identifies A.D.H.D. as the culprit. People don’t like to hear that they may have a different, stranger-sounding problem that can’t be fixed with a pill — though this often changes once patients see the results of their sleep studies.
有时，我的病人对我提出他们做睡眠测试的建议有抵触情绪，因为他们看到的所有信息都宣称ADHD是罪魁祸首，这些信息往往是药品公司直接针对消费者做的销售宣传。人们不喜欢听到自己可能患有另一种听上去更怪，而且不能靠服药就能控制的疾病；然而，这种情况在病人看到自己的睡眠诊断结果后通常会改变。
Beyond my day job, I have a personal interest in A.D.H.D. and sleep disorders. Beginning in college and for nearly a decade, I struggled with profound cognitive lethargy and difficulty focusing, a daily nap habit and weekend sleep addiction. I got through my medical school exams only by the grace of good memorization skills and the fact that ephedra was still a legal supplement.
除了专业兴趣，我对ADHD和睡眠失调还有个人兴趣。我从大学时代开始，有近10年的时间受严重的认知迟钝和集中注意力困难等问题困扰，有每天打盹的习惯，而且周末嗜睡。我之所以能通过医学院的考试，靠的是出色的记忆技巧，还靠了麻黄属植物，那时这类增补品还是合法的。
I was misdiagnosed with various maladies, including A.D.H.D. Then I underwent two sleep studies and, finally, was found to have an atypical form of narcolepsy. This was a shock to me, because I had never fallen asleep while eating or talking. But, it turned out, over 40 percent of my night was spent in REM sleep — or “dreaming sleep,” which normally occurs only intermittently throughout the night — while just 5 percent was spent in delta sleep, the rejuvenating kind. I was sleeping 8 to 10 hours a night, but I still had a profound delta sleep deficit.
我曾被误诊患有各种疾病，包括ADHD。后来我做了两次睡眠诊断，最终被发现患有非典型性嗜眠发作。这很让我吃惊，因为我从来没有过在吃饭或讲话时睡着的经历。但事实上，我夜里睡眠时间的40%以上，是快速眼球运动（Rapid Eye Movement，简称REM）睡眠，也就是“做梦睡眠”，而正常情况下这种睡眠在夜里只应间歇性出现，我只有5%的时间是处于具有修复功能的慢波睡眠中。我每天晚上睡8到10个小时，但仍然患有严重的慢波睡眠缺乏症。