BUSAN, South Korea — As the author of the novel “I Have the Right to Destroy Myself,” I’m often asked why I think South Korea’s suicide rate is so high. The protagonist in my story is a professional “suicide counselor” who is hired to help clients plan and execute their own deaths. I started writing the novel in 1995, a time when South Korea’s annual rate of suicide was much lower than the average of the other industrialized nations. But it soared in the wake of the 1997 Asian financial crisis — and it has been getting worse ever since.
韩国釜山——作为《我有毁坏自己的权利》(I Have the Right to Destroy Myself)一书的作者，人们经常问我，在我看来韩国自杀率如此之高的原因是什么。我那部小说的主人公是一名专业的“自杀咨询师”，客户聘请他是为了让他帮助自己规划和执行自杀。我从1995年开始写这部小说，当时韩国的年度自杀率远低于其他发达国家的平均水平。然而在1997年亚洲金融危机之后，韩国自杀率飙升，并且自那以后一直在恶化。
When the novel was published in 1996 no one, including me, would have thought that suicide could become such a scourge. South Korea has had the highest suicide rate in the industrialized world for eight consecutive years; 14,160 people committed suicide in 2012, an average of 39 people per day and a 219 percent increase from the 6,444 suicides in 2000. It’s the No.1 cause of death for people between the ages of 10 and 30. For people in their 40s, suicide is the second most common cause of death, after cancer. Among the older generations, the numbers are even more bleak.
小说在1996年出版时，包括我在内，所有人都没有料到自杀会成为如此惨痛的问题。韩国自杀率一连八年位居发达国家之首。2012年，有14160人自杀，平均每天39人，和2000年相比增长了219%，那一年有6444人自杀。在10到30岁的人群中，自杀是最主要的死亡原因。在40多岁的人群中，自杀是第二常见的死因，仅次于癌症。在更为年长的人群中，数字更加触目惊心。
Suicide is everywhere. I was having a drink with a friend at a bar in Seoul recently and the young bartender asked us if we thought the weather would permit boats trips the next day. Her brother had killed himself a year ago, she said, and her family was planning to take a boat into the harbor, where they had scattered his ashes, for the anniversary. Then my old friend told me that our college classmate, who we had all thought died of a heart attack, had actually committed suicide.
自杀随处可见。最近有一天，我和一个朋友在首尔的一家酒吧里喝酒时，年轻的调酒师问我们，感觉明天的天气是不是可以乘船出行。她说，她的哥哥一年前自杀了，家人把他的骨灰撒在了港口里，现在家人们打算乘船到港口纪念周年。接着，我的老朋友告诉我，我们原本以为死于心脏病的一个大学同学，实际上是自杀而死。
Now, whenever I hear news that a young person has passed away, suicide is the first possibility that comes to mind.
现在，每每听到年轻人去世的消息，我头脑中闪现的第一种可能性就是自杀。
The “Bridge of Life” campaign is a typical example of the authorities’ misguided approach to the epidemic. Mapo Bridge, which cuts across the Han River in Seoul, had so many people throwing themselves over the side to their deaths that it became known as the “Suicide Bridge.” In 2012, the Seoul government and Samsung Life Insurance initiated a joint project to transform the “Suicide Bridge” into the “Bridge of Life.” An advertising firm invited the public to suggest greetings that were put on illuminated panels above the guardrails of the bridge. The panels would light up as people approached the railings, greeting pedestrians with phrases like, “I know it’s been hard for you” and “How are you today?”
“生命之桥”的宣传项目是官方应对自杀时不得要领的典型范例。首尔的麻浦大桥(Mapo Bridge)横跨汉江，由于有太多人从桥的边缘跳下护栏求死，所以这座桥有了“自杀大桥”的称号。2012年，首尔市政府和三星生命保险(Samsung Life Insurance)联合发起了一个项目，要把“自杀大桥”转变为“生命之桥”。一家广告公司邀请公众提交问候语，再将这些问候语印在可以发光的面板上，放在大桥护栏上方。有人走近护栏时，面板就会点亮，向行人致以这样的问候：“我知道你这段时间过得不容易”，或者“你今天感觉怎么样？”
A year later, the suicide rate off the Mapo Bridge was six times higher. Instead of deterring suicide, the “Bridge of Life” campaign attracted suicides.
一年之后，跳下麻浦大桥自杀的人数达到了原来的六倍。“生命之桥”的文宣非但没能劝阻自杀，反而吸引了自杀。
Just a few days ago, the security team for a big-budget Hollywood production found the body of a 21-year-old man in the water underneath the Mapo Bridge during filming; he had been dead for two weeks.
就在几天前，一部好莱坞大片制片方的保安团队，在拍摄期间从麻浦大桥下方的河水中，找到了一名21岁男子的尸体，他是两周前死去的。
According to research by the department of Family Medicine at Hallym University, some 60 percent of people who attempt suicide are suffering from depression. Yet too many people in South Korea have outdated views of psychological illness. Many think that when someone is suicidal he simply lacks a strong will to live; he’s weak. There’s little sympathy or interest in probing below the surface.
翰林大学(Hallym University)家庭医学系的研究显示，尝试自杀的人中，有60%患有抑郁症。然而在韩国，有太多人对心理疾病持有陈旧的观念。许多人以为，自杀者只是缺乏活下去的坚强意愿，太软弱了。很少有人同情，也很少有人有兴趣透过表面，更深入地去探究。
And it’s not easy to get therapy for depression in South Korea, where there is still strong societal resistance to psychological treatment. Kim Eo-su, a professor of psychiatry at Yonsei Severance Hospital, told me: “One out of three depression patients stops mid-treatment. One of the biggest issues is that many patients think they can overcome depression on their own through a religious life or through exercise.”
此外，在韩国寻求抑郁症的治疗也并不容易，因为心理治疗在社会上仍然面临很强的阻力。延世大学世博兰斯医院(Yonsei Severance Hospital)的精神病学教授金於洙(Kim Eo-su)对我说：“三分之一的抑郁症患者在治疗过程中会放弃。许多患者认为，他们靠宗教生活或体育锻炼就能克服抑郁症，这是最大的问题之一。”
Many people who seek psychiatric treatment are afraid of doctors keeping records. There was a rumor going around recently among married women that having a record of treatment or medication for depression could mean losing custody of your children if your husband were ever to sue for divorce.
许多寻求心理治疗的人都担心医生做记录。最近在已婚妇女当中有传言说，如果有因为抑郁症而接受治疗或服药的记录，一旦丈夫起诉离婚，女方就会失去孩子的监护权。
Satisfactory explanations for the root causes of the epidemic are hard to come by. For the elderly, many analysts cite the breakdown of the traditional family unit, and the poor economy. Among the youth, the pressure over college entrance examinations is often blamed. And for the middle-aged, it’s uncertainty about the economy. But no matter what the age, too many South Koreans see suicide as a viable escape from the stresses of modern life. That attitude has to change.
关于自杀大量发生的根源，我们很难找到令人满意的解释。对于老年人的自杀，许多分析人士指出的原因是传统家庭单位的瓦解，以及经济状况不佳。对于年轻人的自杀，人们经常归咎于大学入学考试带来的压力。对于中年人，问题在于经济形势的不确定性。然而对于所有年龄段的人来说，都有太多韩国人把自杀当成了摆脱现代社会生活压力的可行的退路。这种态度必须转变。
The good thing is that a shift is underway at the local level. In 2013, Busan became the first city in the country to begin monitoring people at high risk for suicide. And psychiatric specialists started studying the mental environment of people who committed suicide by conducting in-depth interviews with their survivors. Busan officials cited the example of Finland, where the authorities implemented a similar system in 1992, when that nation’s suicide rate was among the highest in the world. Using this kind of program, they managed to reduce suicides by 40 percent.
好消息是，在地方层面这种转变正在发生。2013年，釜山成了韩国第一个开始对自杀高危人群进行关注的城市。精神病学专家也开始研究自杀者生前的精神环境，方法是对其亲友开展深入的访谈。釜山市的官员表示，他们参照了芬兰的范例。1992年时，芬兰自杀率处在全球最高的水平，当时官方实施了类似的系统。通过这种项目，芬兰成功地把自杀率降低了40%。
Following Busan’s lead, Incheon set up a comprehensive project for suicide prevention with the goal of reducing the suicide rate by 20 percent.
仁川也效仿釜山，建立起了全面的自杀预防项目，目标是把自杀率降低20%。
On the national level, the government is starting to address the problem. But the effort is still too weak: The total national budget for suicide services is close to $7 million. By comparison, Japan spends more than $130 million on suicide programs, and they have seen strong results for their efforts.
在全国层面，政府也已经开始着手应对自杀问题。然而措施仍然远远不够有力，自杀预防服务的全国预算接近700万美元。与此相对比，日本在预防自杀方面投入的资金有1.3亿美元，而且那里的举措取得了很好的效果。
Today, I could never write a suicide-filled novel like “I Have the Right to Destroy Myself.” I would be too afraid of inspiring others to kill themselves. I look forward to the day when a writer like me can once again comfortably use suicide as the stuff of fiction.
今天，我绝对不会写出《我有毁坏自己的权利》这种充斥自杀情节的小说，因为我很担心它会鼓动其他人自杀。我盼望着有一天，像我这样的作家能再次安心地把自杀当成虚构的情节。