HONG KONG — CLARE REWCASTLE BROWN is persona non grata in her native Malaysia, barred from entering the former British colony.
香港——在她的家乡马来西亚，克莱尔·鲁卡斯尔·布朗(Clare Rewcastle Brown)作为不受欢迎的人，被禁止进入这个前英国殖民地。
But that does not silence Ms. Rewcastle Brown, who is one of the most effective voices calling attention to deforestation in Malaysia. The booming economy there, she contends, has been fueled in part by the country’s willingness to tap its natural resources in ways that have enriched the leadership of her native Sarawak, a vast state on Borneo Island long known for its stunning natural beauty and biodiversity.
但是，这并没有使鲁卡斯尔·布朗缄默不言，在呼吁人们关注马来西亚森林砍伐问题时，最有力的声音之一就来自于她。鲁卡斯尔·布朗声称，马来西亚经济蓬勃发展，部分推动力来自马来西亚愿意以让沙捞越(Sarawak)领导者中饱私囊的方式来利用它的自然资源。辽阔的沙捞越是鲁卡斯尔·布朗的家乡，位于婆罗洲岛，长期以来因其令人惊叹的自然景色和生物多样性著称于世。
Through Internet postings and shortwave radio transmissions from London, Ms. Newcastle Brown has given voice to growing concerns among Malaysians about environmental degradation. She spreads her message on social media, her Sarawak Report Web site and broadcasts on Radio Free Sarawak.
通过在伦敦网上发帖和发出的短波无线电信号，鲁卡斯尔·布朗表达了马来西亚人对环境退化问题日益加深的担忧。她通过社交媒体、她的“沙捞越报道”(Sarawak Report)网站和“沙捞越自由电台”(Radio Free Sarawak)的广播来传达讯息。
“They can’t do this in Malaysia,” she said by phone of her reporting on a country that holds regular democratic elections, but where the government nevertheless exerts strong controls on the news media. “They’d be arrested immediately, and their livelihoods would be destroyed.”
“在马来西亚的人做不到这一点，”她在电话中谈到自己对马来西亚的报道时说。这个国家虽然定期举行民主选举，但政府仍然对新闻媒体严加控制。“他们如果这么做，马上就会被逮捕，而且会失去生计。”
Malaysia is emblematic of Asian nations that are enjoying newfound prosperity, but struggling to adhere to democratic ideals in a world where social media is shaping public opinion and testing entrenched leaders. Its prime minister, Najib Razak, was recently re-elected, but the governing coalition failed to secure a majority vote for the first time in 44 years. Through the global reach of social media, Ms. Rewcastle Brown found easy entree into Malaysia’s brewing environmental debates from her perch in London.
现如今，社交媒体正在影响公众舆论，并对根基稳固的领导者形成考验，一些亚洲国家近年来在经济上实现了繁荣，但在坚持民主理想的道路上却举步维艰；马来西亚就是这样的一个典型。其总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)最近竞选连任成功，但执政联盟未能获得多数票，这还是44年来第一次出现这样的情况。马来西亚关于环境的讨论日益激烈，鲁卡斯尔·布朗利用社交媒体的全球覆盖力，轻而易举地找到了从伦敦居所进入这场争论的方式。
Ms. Rewcastle Brown, 54, the daughter of a police officer in Sarawak during colonial days, recalls flying away from Borneo to attend boarding school as a child.
鲁卡斯尔·布朗现年54岁，她父亲是沙捞越殖民时期的一名警察，她回忆了儿时飞离婆罗洲，入读寄宿学校的往事。
“I have vivid memories of leaving North Borneo at 8, and I remember the vast canopy of rain forest,” she said.
“我生动地记得8岁时离开北婆罗洲时的状况，记得热带雨林的那些巨大树冠，”她说。
Four decades later — after a journalism career at the BBC World Service, ITV News and Sky Television in London — she returned to Sarawak for an environmental conference in Kuching and was taken aback by the destruction of the forests.
四十年后——在担任过伦敦BBC国际频道、ITV新闻和天空电视台(Sky Television)的记者之后——她回到沙捞越，参加了在古晋举行的一个环保会议，森林遭受的破坏令她感到震惊。
“You had a tiny clique — a family — that is driving this. There are a handful of people making the money out of this,” she said in reference to relatives of Abdul Taib Mahmud, the chief minister of Sarawak. Mr. Abdul Taib, she asserts, has used his control over timber concessions to enrich himself and his relatives, who, she says, park many of their assets overseas.
“有一个很小的集团，其实就是一个家族，是森林破坏活动的幕后推手。少数一些人从中牟利，”她说。她指的是沙捞越首席部长阿卜杜勒·泰益·马哈茂德(Abdul Taib Mahmud)的亲戚们。她声称，阿卜杜勒·泰益利用对木材采伐证的控制权，让自己和亲属中饱私囊，而且他们把很多财产都转移到了海外。
“For the next year I looked into the subject,” she recalled, “and was perturbed nobody was covering it.”
“在接下来的一年里，我对此事进行了一些了解，”她回忆说，“我感到很不安，因为没有人报道这件事。”
WITH help from the Bruno Manser Fund — named after a Swiss environmental activist who disappeared in Malaysia in 2000 and is presumed dead — she started the Sarawak Report in 2010, tapping into online discussions in Malaysia and, with the help of others, writing investigative news reports in English for a Malaysian audience from Covent Garden in London. (She would not say where the operations are based now, citing safety reasons.)
在布鲁诺·曼泽基金会(Bruno Manser Fund)的协助下，她2010年创建了“沙捞越报道”网站。基金会以同名瑞士环保活动人士命名，此人2000年在马来西亚失踪，可能已经死亡。通过该网站，鲁卡斯尔·布朗进入了马来西亚的在线讨论领域，在其他人的帮助下，她用英语为马来西亚读者撰写调查性新闻报道。她以前的办公室在伦敦的科文特花园地区，出于对安全的考虑，她拒绝透露目前的办公地点。
Next came Radio Free Sarawak, helped along by a drive that put 10,000 shortwave radios in the hands of Malaysians to hear the broadcasts, an effort aided by local churches and opposition groups.
此后，她成立了沙捞越自由电台，并展开了宣传活动：在当地教会和反对派团体的协助下，1万台短波收音机被发放到马来西亚人手中，让他们能听到广播。
“They have verandas where families will sit together and listen to the radio,” Ms. Rewcastle Brown said. To increase the audience, they eventually moved the broadcasts to later in the day to accommodate workers coming home from rice paddies.
“有些家庭会全家坐在门廊上一起听广播，”鲁卡斯尔·布朗说。为了扩大听众群，他们后来把广播时间推后，以配合从稻田劳作归来的人们的作息。
Her effort was anonymous at first — Sarawak Report was started while her brother-in-law, Gordon Brown, was in his last months in office as the British prime minister. She is married to Mr. Brown’s younger brother, Andrew.
一开始，她匿名展开工作。“沙捞越报道”启动的时候，她的姻亲戈登·布朗(Gordon Brown)正处在其英国首相任期的最后几个月。她的丈夫是布朗的弟弟安德鲁(Andrew)。
“I kept my head down while he was prime minister,” she said. But relatives helped persuade her to go public to raise the profile of her work. “It was my family who said it was best to come out into the open.”
“他当首相的时候，我一直低调，”她说。但家人帮助说服她，应公开身份，提高自己工作的知名度。“是我的家人说，最好公开自己的身份。”
Her news outlets focus heavily on assertions that Mr. Abdul Taib’s family has accumulated billions of dollars of wealth, channeling it to real estate in North America and London, while dominating various industries in Malaysia helped along by his political influence.
她的新闻机构着重强调，阿卜杜勒·泰益的家人聚敛了数十亿美元的财富，将其转移到北美和伦敦的地产项目中，并在他的政治影响力的推动下掌控了马来西亚的数个行业。
In early July, Ms. Rewcastle Brown arrived at Kuching International Airport in Sarawak, only to be detained at the airport and put back on a plane for Singapore.
7月初，鲁卡斯尔·布朗飞抵沙捞越的古晋国际机场，却在那里遭到拘捕，并被送上飞回新加坡的飞机。
Bridget Welsh, a political science professor at Singapore Management University and an expert on Malaysian affairs, credits the two news outlets that Ms. Rewcastle Brown runs for their “impact on the political debate” over deforestation in Sarawak.
研究马来西亚事务的新加坡管理大学(Singapore Management University)政治学教授布里奇特·韦尔什(Bridget Welsh)称赞说，鲁卡斯尔·布朗运营的两家新闻机构对围绕着沙捞越毁林问题的“政治辩论产生了很大影响”。
“Taib’s leadership has been badly affected in the urban areas, especially among the Chinese, as the revelations have reverberated among the more educated and Internet connected,” she said. Still, she said, deforestation would likely continue, since “the elite in Malaysia are concerned with making money.”
“泰益的领导在城市地区严重受损，尤其是在华人当中，因为相关披露信息在受教育程度和互联网程度较高的人群中反响很大，”她说。不过，她还表示，毁林很可能还会继续下去，因为“马来西亚权贵关心的是赚钱”。
In the meantime, Ms. Rewcastle Brown faces her own challenges, like Web sites created to undercut her work by using similar names, and aggressive Malaysian-financed public relations efforts that seek to portray the Malaysian government’s environmental efforts in a positive light. And she does her work while she and her husband, Andrew Brown, a former journalist now working in the energy industry, raise two teenage boys.
与此同时，鲁卡斯尔·布朗也面临着自身的挑战。比如有些名字类似的网站被建立起来破坏她的努力，还有马来西亚官方资助的公关活动，试图正面描绘该国政府在环境方面所做的工作。他的丈夫安德鲁·布朗曾是一名记者，如今在能源行业工作。她做这些事情的同时，还要与他一起抚养两个十几岁的男孩。
Does she regret her shift into opposition journalism from afar? She recalled how she had been inspired by the work of Mr. Manser when she started looking into the deforestation of Sarawak.
她是否后悔转向了远距离的反对派新闻报道？她回忆称，自己开始调查沙捞越毁林问题的时候，深受曼泽所做工作的启发。
“I must try to do something,” she said of the genesis of her efforts. “I’ll never forgive myself if I don’t try.”
谈到自己展开这些工作的原因，她说，“我必须试着做点儿什么。如果没有试一下，我永远不会原谅自己。”