Can’t we wait until we’ve resolved the body count? Until the identities of all of the victims have been determined and their families informed? Until the sirens stop wailing? Until the blood is dry?
我们就不能等到死亡人数统计工作完成？不能等所有遇难者身份得到确认，家属得到通知？不能等警报声音消散？不能等地上的血变干吗？
Or must we instantly bootstrap obliquely related agendas and utterly unconnected grievances to the carnage in Paris, responding to it with an unsavory opportunism instead of a respectful grief?
我们非得马上启动那些不大相关的议程，发泄与巴黎的惨剧完全不相关的牢骚，一定要以一种讨人厌的机会主义态度来对待这件事，而非给予出于尊重的悲伤？
First news of the gunfire there on Friday didn’t dribble out until about 4 p.m. Eastern time in the United States.
直到美国东部时间下午四点，有关周五枪击事件的消息才开始陆续传来。
Within four hours, Ann Coulter tweeted:
四个小时后，安娜·库尔特(Ann Coulter)在Twitter上发布了如下帖子：
"Too bad there were no concealed carry permits ... anywhere in Europe ... since 1818."
“可惜从1818年开始，欧洲至今没有一个地方……允许秘密携带枪支……”
Hasty?
太心急了？
Hardly.
还有更早的。
An hour earlier, Judith Miller tweeted:
在那之前一个小时，朱迪思·米勒(Judith Miller)已经在Twitter上发文：
"Now maybe the whining adolescents at our universities can concentrate on something other than their need for "safe" spaces…"
“现在，我们大学校园里那些牢骚满腹的小青年可以把精力用到别的地方了，而不是一味追求他们想要的‘安全’空间……”
Before we knew all that much about what had happened, before many Americans had even caught word of it, before the ones who were aware had moved past horror and numbness, Paris wasn’t just a massacre.
我们还不够了解那边发生了什么，很多美国人甚至还没听到这个消息，那些了解情况的人还处在恐惧中，没能回过神来。在这样的节点，巴黎就变得不仅仅意味着一场屠杀了。
It was a megaphone to be used for whatever you yearned to shout.
它成了一个扩音器，用来放大你竭力表达的任何东西。
That’s how it works in this era of Internet preening, out-of-control partisanship and press-a-button punditry, when anything and everything becomes prompt for a plaint, a rant, a riff.
在这个众人惯于用网络粉饰自我、党派纷争肆虐、“权威”观点手到擒来的时代，任何事都可以轻易地沦为抱怨、责骂和任意发泄的由头。
It all happens in the click of a mouse, its metabolism too furious to allow for decorum or real perspective.
只要点一下鼠标，分分钟就能实现。事态演变如此迅疾，人们顾不上有理有节，也谈不上有什么真知灼见。
I woke Saturday morning to Paris-pegged commentary about not just gun control and free speech on American campuses but also climate change—yes, climate change—and of course immigration, albeit to the United States, not France.
周六，我一早就看到有关巴黎事件的各种评论，不仅把它和控枪和美国校园里的言论自由联系起来，还跟气候变化——没错，气候变化——扯上了关系，当然还有移民问题，不过是和美国的移民问题，而非法国的。
What does Paris have to do with climate change?
巴黎发生的事跟气候变化有哪门子关系？
Well, apparently President Obama’s justly profound concern about rising temperatures is proof of his inadequate attention to terrorism and an indictment of his ability to do triage overall.
奥巴马总统对全球气温不断升高表示出应有的深度关切。显然，这恰恰显示出他对恐怖主义问题缺乏关注，也表明他无力在所有需要处理的议题中正确把握优先次序。
Or so I gather from a column written by Roger L. Simon for PJ Media. Simon characterized Obama as “a ludicrous man who thinks the world’s greatest problem is climate change in the face of Islamic terror.”
反正我从罗格·L·西蒙(Roger L. Simon)为PJ Media网站撰写的一篇专栏文章中得出的结论就是这样。西蒙将奥巴马定性为“一个荒唐可笑的人，在面对来自伊斯兰世界的恐怖时，居然认为世界上最严重的问题是气候变化。”
Does battling the latter prohibit battling the former?
可是，抗击气候变化真的会妨碍你抗击前一个问题吗？
Simon also mentioned that Obama had once referred to the Islamic State as “the JV team” and had sought to scale down American military commitments abroad. While I question the usefulness of bashing Obama within 24 hours of the Paris attacks, I acknowledge that his past and present assessments of the Islamic State and his readiness (or not) to use American might are fair points of debate in the context of Paris and how we respond to it.
西蒙还提到，奥巴马曾将伊斯兰国指为“预备队”，还致力于缩减美国驻外军事力量。尽管我对在巴黎袭击事件发生不到24小时内就大肆攻击奥巴马能起到什么作用表示怀疑，但我觉得，在巴黎事件及如何应对它的大背景下讨论他过去和现在对伊斯兰国的评估，以及他乐意（或不乐意）使用美国军事力的程度，都还合情合理。
But I don’t for the life of me see why Miller and many others, including Coulter, felt the need to construct a bridge from Paris to Mizzou and Yale.
但我怎么也不明白，米勒和其他许多人，包括库尔特，为什么非要把巴黎袭击事件和密苏里及耶鲁大学扯到一起。
Yes, some American students’ demands for “safe spaces” have gone much too far, endangering free speech and a vital exchange of ideas. Yes, the Yale campus is overwrought (I’ve watched that viral video). And, yes, the insult of certain Halloween costumes pales beside the bloodshed in Paris. Duh.
没错，一些美国学生对“安全空间”的要求是有些过分，危及言论自由，影响至关重要的思想交流。耶鲁校园内学生的反应是有些过激（我看了那段在网上疯传的视频）。而且，和巴黎的流血事件相比，某类万圣节服饰造成的侮辱也的确显得微不足道。这还用说吗。
But there are countless offenses and injustices that pale beside the bloodshed in Paris — what doesn’t? — and there’s absolutely no reason to believe that the people articulating those offenses and injustices would claim otherwise. Using Paris to delegitimize them is puerile. It’s also tasteless, cheapening what happened there.
但和巴黎的袭击事件相比，太多的攻击行为和不公平事件都会相形见拙——有哪样不会？——也绝没有理由相信，控诉此类言论和行为的人，会不同意这一点。利用巴黎袭击事件来削弱他们的合理性，是很幼稚的。这种行为本身毫无品味可言，还贬损了巴黎发生的事件。
At this point it’s our ingrained habit to rush with dizzying speed into hyper-political overdrive and treat any shocking new development as fresh fodder for an old argument. That’s what Newt Gingrich did, joining Coulter in crying out for more firearms:
这个时候，我们太容易随着根深蒂固的惯性，全身心扑向高度政治化的话题，把任何惊人的新动向当作重新掀起旧日争论的素材。这正是纽特·金里奇(Newt Gingrich)所做的，他也和库尔特一样大声呼吁允许携带更多枪支：
On Saturday morning I read that Paris was going to be good for Republicans. I read that Paris was going to be good for Democrats.
周六上午，我既读到有人说巴黎的事件会对共和党有利，又读到有人说会对民主党有利。
I felt sick. For a few hours, even a few days, I’d like to focus on the pain of Parisians and how that magnificent city reclaims any sense of order, any semblance of safety. I’d like not to wonder if Hillary Clinton’s odds of election just ticked upward or downward or if Donald Trump’s chest-thumping bluster suddenly became more seductive.
我感到恶心。我希望能有几个小时，甚至几天，我们只关注巴黎人的痛苦，关注这座华贵之城如何重新恢复秩序，重回哪怕是表面的安全。而不是琢磨希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)获选的机会因此增大还是减少，或猜测唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)拍着胸脯喷出的狂言是否突然变得更有吸引力。
I’d like not to be told, fewer than 18 hours after the shots rang out, how they demonstrate that Americans must crack down on illegal immigration to our own country. I read that and was galled, and not because of my feelings about immigration, but because of my feelings about the automatic, indiscriminate politicization of tragedy.
我不希望在枪击事件后不到18个小时就听到有人表示，此次袭击证明美国必须控制本国的非法移民。读到这些东西，我感到异常恼怒，不是因为我同情移民，而是因为我愤慨悲剧事件不加区分地自动遭到政治化。
It’s such a disrespectful impulse.
那是一种如此不体面的冲动。
And it’s such an ugly one.
而且，它如此地丑恶。