As many as 220,000 people were killed by the atomic bombs that the United States dropped on Japan, most of them Japanese civilians. But 40,000 to 50,000 of the dead were Koreans who had been taken to Hiroshima or Nagasaki against their will as forced laborers, or had settled in the cities after fleeing deprivation in their occupied homeland.
当年美国在日本投下的原子弹令多达22万人丧生，其中大部分是日本平民。不过也有四到五万韩国人遇难，他们有的是在违背个人意愿的情况下被带到广岛或长崎做强制劳工，有的则是逃离沦陷后缺衣少食的祖国，定居在这两个城市。
Those who survived and returned to South Korea after the war were then shunned and denied medical care, partly to avoid upsetting the official view that the nuclear attacks were necessary to liberate Korea. Some were banished to leper colonies.
一些人在原子弹爆炸中幸存下来，战后返回韩国，之后处处不受欢迎，也无法获得医疗服务。人们之所以这么做，有一部分原因是为避免违背当时的官方说法，即为了解放朝鲜半岛，对日本进行核打击是必要的。有些幸存者被迫藏身于麻风病人聚居地。
In the debates prompted by Obama’s coming visit, few have as many claims to an apology — from Japan, from the United States, even from their own government in South Korea — as these Korean survivors. Their unique experience illustrates the complicated, emotional politics of memory and morality that Obama must navigate when he becomes the first sitting American president to visit Hiroshima on Friday.
在因奥巴马即将到来的访问而引发的争论之中，几乎没有人比这些韩国幸存者更有权要求获得一个道歉，不管是来自日本、美国，还是他们自己的国家韩国。他们独特的经历显示出，当奥巴马下周五成为访问广岛的首位美国在任总统时，他要应对的记忆与道德交织的政治问题有多么复杂，多么容易让人情绪激动。
“If there is anyone he must apologize to, isn’t it the innocent non-Japanese victims like the Koreans?” said Lee Su-yong, 88, whose parents took her to Hiroshima in search of food when she was 7. “We Koreans didn’t start the war. Most of us were there because the Japanese forced us to be there.”
“如果说有什么他必须致歉的人，难道不该是像韩国人这样的非日本无辜受害者吗？”88岁的李秀英（Lee Su-yong，音）说道。为了能有口饭吃，她在7岁的时候被父母带到了广岛。“不是我们韩国人挑起了这场战争。我们大多数人当时之所以会在广岛，也是被日本人逼的。”
Korean survivors are among the most ardent supporters of Obama’s vision of a world free of nuclear weapons. But in a joint statement this month, they argued that the United States would have moral authority only after it apologized for the “original sin” of dropping the bombs and paid reparations to innocent victims.
韩国幸存者是最热烈地拥护奥巴马提出的无核世界这一愿景的人。然而，他们在本月发表的一份联合声明中提出，如果不为投掷原子弹这一“原罪”致歉，不对无辜的受害者进行赔偿，美国便不具备道德权威。
Many survivors also echo general unease in South Korea that Obama’s visit to Hiroshima will reinforce Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s efforts to present Japan as a victim in World War II, obscuring its role as the aggressor that started the Pacific conflict and committed atrocities across Asia, including in South Korea, which it ruled as a colony.
许多幸存者也再度提及在韩国各界普遍存在的一种担忧，即奥巴马访问广岛会强化日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)将日本列为二战受害者的努力，这会淡化日本作为侵略者的角色。是日本在太平洋地区挑起了战争，将包括韩国在内的诸多亚洲地区当作殖民地进行统治，犯下累累暴行。
“I doubt that any of Japan’s neighbors welcome Obama’s visit,” said Gong In-bae, a Red Cross official at the nursing home, the only one of its kind in South Korea. “If Japan likes to say that people killed by the atomic bombs were civilians, how about all those civilians it itself had killed in Nanjing, Korea and elsewhere?”
“我不觉得日本的哪个邻国会乐见奥巴马访问广岛，”红十字会工作人员孔尹裴（Gong In-bae，音）说道，他所在的疗养院在韩国是独一无二的，专门为核爆幸存者提供服务。“日本喜欢说被原子弹炸死的是平民，那它自己在南京、朝鲜半岛和别的地方杀死的所有平民呢？”
“No wonder South Korea is moving closer to China,” he added. “At least, China and we Koreans share and understand what the pain imposed by Japan was like.”
“难怪韩国在和中国走得更近，”他接着讲道。“至少，中国和我们韩国人有共通的地方，都知道被日本施加的痛苦的滋味。”
There is widespread suspicion among South Koreans that the United States is so eager to strengthen its alliance with Japan to offset China’s rise that it is willing to gloss over unresolved grievances across Asia over Japan’s war record.
有相当多的韩国人觉得，为了抵消中国崛起带来的影响，美国太过迫切地要加强与日本的盟友关系，乃至会不惜粉饰亚洲各国对日本战争罪行尚未消除的怨愤。
Many argue that Obama should have put off a visit to Hiroshima until Abe visited Pearl Harbor to apologize for the U.S. war dead, Nanjing to offer contrition to the victims of the 1937 massacre in the Chinese city, and South Korea to face the “comfort women” who served as sex slaves for the Japanese military.
许多人认为奥巴马应该推迟访问广岛，至安倍访问珍珠港，为美国遇难者致歉之后；至他前去南京，向1937年南京大屠杀事件中的受害者忏悔之后；至他前往韩国面对昔日被日军当做性奴的“慰安妇”之后。
Given Japan’s attitude, the mass-circulation daily JoongAng Ilbo said in an editorial, Obama’s visit to Hiroshima was “imprudent and regrettable.”
考虑到日本的态度，销量甚广的《中央日报》(JoongAng Ilbo)在一篇社论中表示，奥巴马的广岛之行是“轻率且令人遗憾的”。
Nowhere are the misgivings more evident than in Hapcheon, sometimes called the Hiroshima of South Korea because so many of those killed by the bombing were from here.
这种不安的情绪在陕川郡体现得最为明显。这里有时也被称为韩国的广岛，因为被美国的原子弹炸死的韩国人有不少都出自这里。
During its 35-year colonial rule of Korea, Japan forced Koreans to contribute to its imperial expansion and war effort, drafting them as laborers and confiscating grain and even kitchen utensils and farm tools. Many Koreans did not have enough to eat and fled to Japan, where they believed it would be easier to find jobs and food.
在将朝鲜半岛作为殖民地进行统治的35年里，日本强迫这里的人为日本帝国的扩张和它的战事做贡献，将他们征作劳工，没收他们的粮食、乃至厨具和农具。许多朝鲜半岛人因吃不饱饭而逃到了日本，他们认为在那里更容易找到工作和食物。
Lee said she was among the more fortunate because she was allowed to attend school in Hiroshima and later managed to get a job at a bank. Thousands of others from Hapcheon were taken to Hiroshima to toil in munitions factories, or worked on farms and in other menial jobs around the city.
李秀英表示，她属于当中相对比较幸运的，因为她当时可以在广岛上学，后来还在银行找到了一份工作。数以千计的其他来自陕川郡的人被带到广岛，在军工厂、农场做苦工，或在这个城市从事其他卑微的工作。
On the morning of Aug. 6, 1945, the bomb struck as Lee was just arriving for work. The roof of the bank building caved in, injuring her leg. The sky turned dark as it filled with ash, she recalled, and people roamed the streets with molten skin dangling from their outstretched arms.
1945年8月6日上午，原子弹袭来时，李秀英刚到单位，正准备开始工作。她所在银行大楼的屋顶倒塌，伤到了她的腿。据她回忆，当时天空变得黑暗，烟尘滚滚，人们在街上游荡，伸展的胳膊上晃着已被灼化、即将脱落的皮肤。
Society treated the survivors as pariahs. Their children could not find spouses for fear they carried genetic defects. Men would divorce their wives if it was discovered they had been in Hiroshima or Nagasaki.
社会像对待弃儿一样对待这些幸存者。他们的子女找不到配偶，因为人们担心他们有基因缺陷。男人们如果发现自己的妻子当时曾在广岛或长崎待过，就会和她们离婚。
“Like many others, I concealed my story, even from my son and daughter-in-law,” one of the nursing home residents, Kim Il-jo, 88, told me.
“像其他很多人一样，我隐藏了自己的这段经历，就连我的儿子和儿媳也不知道，”疗养院的居民之一、88岁的金日兆（Kim Il-jo，音）告诉我。
Compared with the comfort women, whose cause the Korean government championed, survivors of the atomic bombs endured a political handicap: They were victims of an attack by the United States, South Korea’s most important ally, and for decades after the war, criticism of the United States was taboo.
在维护自身权益方面，慰安妇群体得到韩国政府的支持，原子弹幸存者却遭遇了政治上的障碍：他们是韩国最重要的盟友美国发起的袭击的受害者，而在战争结束后的几十年里，批评美国的原子弹袭击一直是一种禁忌。
Even the number of Korean victims of the bombings is uncertain because the government has never conducted an official investigation, despite demands for one by survivors. Historians and survivors’ groups relied on early Japanese government data to calculate the death toll and estimate that 23,000 and 43,000 Korean survivors returned home.
就连到底有多少韩国人在这场袭击中丧生都无法确定，因为政府从来没有进行过官方的调查，尽管幸存者多次提出这样的要求。历史学家和幸存者群体只能依靠日本政府早先统计的数据来计算死亡人数，他们估计有2.3至4.3万幸存者返回了韩国。
Survivors of the explosions did not receive official health benefits in South Korea until the 1990s, when Japan helped establish a humanitarian fund worth 8 billion yen ($73 million at current exchange rates). In 2003, they also prevailed in a court case in Japan that ordered the Japanese government to help cover medical expenses for registered foreign survivors.
在韩国，原子弹爆炸幸存者一直不曾得到来自官方的任何医疗福利，直到1990年代日本帮助建立起一个8亿日元（按照当前的汇率计算约合5亿元人民币）的人道主义基金。2003年，他们在日本进行的一个诉讼案件中获胜，法院判决日本政府帮助支付海外注册幸存者的医疗费用。
But the families of the Korean survivors are still fighting for recognition and support.
但韩国幸存者的家庭依然在艰难地争取获得承认和支持。
Many are tormented by the belief that radiation exposure caused genetic defects that survivors passed on to their children and grandchildren.
她们中有许多人因这样一种观念备受煎熬，即暴露在放射中导致幸存者的子女和孙辈出现基因缺陷。
Han Jeong-soon, 57, one of the organizers of the second generation, said she blames genetic defects passed down by her parents for the bone disease she suffers from and her son’s cerebral palsy.
现年57岁的韩贞顺（Han Jeong-soon，音）是幸存者第二代群体中的组织者之一。她怪父母遗传的基因缺陷导致她患上骨骼疾病，也令她的儿子患上脑瘫。
“For others, the atomic bomb marked the end of the war and the liberation,” she said. “To us, it was the beginning of new pain and the start of a never-ending war.”
“对其他人来说，原子弹爆炸标志着战争结束，获得解放，”她说。“对我们来说，它是新的痛苦的开始，是一场永无休止的战争的开端。”