Typo is one of a vast array of iPhone cases introduced this week at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Despite its name, it is intended to improve typing accuracy by providing users with a physical keyboard.
Typo是本周在拉斯维加斯消费者电子产品展(Consumer Electronics Show)上推出的众多iPhone壳中的一款。虽然叫这么个名字，Typo其实是向用户提供一个实体键盘，以提高打字精确度。
But two other factors have allowed Typo to stand out from the crowd. The start-up was co-founded by Ryan Seacrest, the host of “American Idol.” And now the company, Typo Products, is being sued by BlackBerry, the smartphone maker so closely associated with physical keyboards that its logo is a reduced version of one.
然而是另外两个因素让Typo脱颖而出。一来这家创业公司的创始人之一是《美国偶像》(American Idol)主持人瑞安·西克莱斯特(Ryan Seacrest)。二来Typo产品公司(Typo Products)目前正遭到黑莓(BlackBerry)起诉，该智能手机生产商与实体键盘有着紧密联系，以至于公司的标志都是一个简约的键盘造型。
In a lawsuit filed last week in the Federal District Court for the Northern District of California, BlackBerry charged that Typo infringed three of BlackBerry’s patents as well as its “trade dress,” which is informal protection for distinctive product designs associated with a single company, like the radiator grille of a Rolls-Royce.
上周向加利福尼亚州北区联邦地区法院递交的诉状中，黑莓公司指控Typo侵犯了它的三项专利以及“商品外观”。商品外观保护是针对可以和单一公司相联系的产品设计特征的非注册保护，例如劳斯莱斯(Rolls-Royce)的散热格栅。
“As a result of its innovative and distinctive keyboard designs, BlackBerry’s devices have achieved overwhelming commercial success,” the company, which lost $4.4 billion in its last quarter, wrote in a court filing. “Instead of developing its own keyboard design, Typo chose to copy BlackBerry’s innovative style and design, including the keyboard layout and the surface shaping of the keys.”
“由于其创新、独特的键盘设计，黑莓的设备取得了巨大的商业成功，”上季度亏损44亿美元的黑莓公司在诉状中写道。“Typo没有自行开发出一个键盘设计，而是复制了黑莓的创新风格和设计，包括键盘布局和按键的表面造型。”
On its website, Typo says that Mr. Seacrest and Laurence Hallier, the company’s other founder and its chief executive, created the case because they were tired of carrying around “two phones: one for typing and correspondence and an iPhone for virtually everything else.”
Typo在公司网站上说，西克莱斯特和公司的另一位创始人兼首席执行官劳伦斯·郝利尔(Laurence Hallier)之所以创造了这个手机壳，是因为他们已经厌倦了随身带着“两部手机：一部用来打字和通信，其他基本上所有事情都用iPhone来做”。
The “typing” phone is unnamed. But in its lawsuit, BlackBerry cites an appearance on CNN last month by Mr. Seacrest in which he agrees with a host who says: “So it’s the best thing about a BlackBerry, within the iPhone.”
网站没有说明用来“打字”的是什么手机。但是在本次诉讼中，黑莓提及上月西克莱斯特在CNN的一次露面，当时一名主持人说，“所以这就是一部黑莓手机最好的地方，放到了iPhone里，”西克莱斯特表示了赞同。
In a statement, Typo dismissed the lawsuit, which seeks to stop the sale of the case and unspecified damages.
在一份声明中，Typo表达了对这起诉讼的不屑，黑莓公司在诉讼中请求终止手机壳的销售和获得未明确的损失赔偿。
“Although we respect BlackBerry and its intellectual property, we believe that BlackBerry’s claims against Typo lack merit, and we intend to defend the case vigorously,” the company said. “We are excited about our innovative keyboard design, which is the culmination of years of development and research.”
“我们尊重黑莓公司及其知识产权，但我们相信黑莓针对Typo的主张是站不住脚的，我们倾向于就本案积极地应诉，”公司说。“我们对自己的创新性键盘设计充满热情，它是多年开发和研究的成果。”
In November, the Rockstar Consortium, a patent holding company owned by BlackBerry, Apple, Microsoft, Ericsson and Sony and others, filed a variety of patent lawsuits against Google, Samsung, HTC, LG Electronics and Huawei Technologies. Last month, Google responded by suing Rockstar, which is based in Ottawa and owns the patents that once belonged to Nortel, Canada’s telecommunications giant before its bankruptcy.
去年11月，由黑莓、苹果(Apple)、微软(Microsoft)、爱立信(Ericsson)和索尼(Sony)等公司共同拥有的专利持有公司摇滚明星联盟(Rockstar Consortium)对谷歌(Google)、三星(Samsung)、HTC、LG电子和华为科技发起了多项专利诉讼。谷歌于上月反诉摇滚明星。这家位于渥太华的公司持有现已破产的加拿大电信业巨头北电(Nortel)的专利。
Some patent experts have said that the lack of litigation by the company historically has left many of its patents untested and of uncertain value.
一些专利专家曾表示，由于该公司历史上缺乏诉讼经历，它的许多专利是未经考验的，价值也就难以确知。