BEIJING — Zhang Heng barged through an exam-room door, surprising a doctor and a patient. He didn’t have time to knock. In Mr. Zhang’s business, every second counts.
北京——张恒（音）闯进一间诊疗室，吓着了里面的医生和病人。他没时间敲门。对他的业务来说,每一秒钟都很重要。
“You have to hand it directly to the person,” said Mr. Zhang, one of the legions of package couriers in Beijing who help power China’s online shopping boom. He spoke as he blitzed through a surgical wing, medical storeroom and patient ward delivering parcels small and large, soft and square, to doctors and nurses in an effort to ensure the right person gets the right package.
“你必须直接交给收件人，”张恒说。他是北京的包裹快递大军的一员，他们帮助为中国的网购繁荣提供了动力。他飞快地在手术楼、药品储藏室和病房之间穿梭，给医生和护士们递送或大或小、或软或方的包裹，努力确保送对人。
“Otherwise,” Mr. Zhang said, “you may get fined.”
“否则，”他说，“可能会被罚钱。”
The Chinese e-commerce industry has been built on the backs of couriers — called kuaidi, or express delivery, in China — like Mr. Zhang. They number 1.2 million, by one survey, and online retailers like Alibaba use them to zip packages to customers by scooter or three-wheeled electric cart. Across China, the world’s largest market for package delivery, a courier shouting “kuaidi!” through a door or a phone signals your package has arrived.
中国的电子商务产业是建立在张恒这样的快递员肩膀上的。据一项调查显示，中国共有120万名快递员，阿里巴巴等在线零售商依靠他们通过电动自行车或三轮电动车把包裹送到顾客手中。中国拥有世界上最大的快递市场。在中国各地，快递员会在门口大喊“快递！”或用手机通知快递到达。
But for the couriers — who are largely unskilled workers from China’s interior — the work can be low-paying and difficult. It is coming under scrutiny from labor activists and legal experts who say many couriers face punishing hours and harsh working conditions.
但是，对快递员来说——他们大多是中国内地没有技能的工人——这份工作可能报酬低，很辛苦。这引起了劳工活动人士和法律专家的注意，他们表示，很多快递员承受着超长工作时间和艰苦的工作环境。
Nearly one-quarter of them work more than 12 hours a day, seven days a week, according to the survey, which covered 40,000 couriers and was conducted by Beijing Jiaotong University and Alibaba’s research and logistics arms. A majority work more than eight hours a day each day of the week.
据这项调查称，近四分之一的快递员每天工作12个小时以上，每周工作7天。这项调查覆盖4万名快递员，是由北京交通大学和阿里巴巴的调研和物流部门联合进行的。大部分快递员每天工作8小时以上，每周工作7天。
Labor standards in the industry vary widely, but many couriers work under arrangements that might, for example, provide no overtime pay or no employer contributions to their government health care and pension benefits. Just as in the United States, where Uber drivers and many others work as contractors, those arrangements raise questions about what defines work and employment.
该行业的用工标准千差万别，但很多快递员的工作合同约定，公司不提供加班费或给员工缴纳政府医疗保险和退休福利。就像美国的优步司机等很多承包式员工一样，这些劳务条款引发了关于工作和雇佣界定的问题。
Couriers, meanwhile, complain about fines. Some delivery companies penalize them if they do not deliver all the morning’s packages by 2 p.m. Poor penmanship, damage to a package or customer complaints can also result in fines, which can add up to a week’s pay.
与此同时，快递员在抱怨罚款问题。有些快递公司规定，如果上午的所有包裹未能在下午2点前完成投递，将予以处罚。字迹不清、包裹破损或客户投诉都可能导致罚款，罚款加在一起可能相当于一周的工资。
“I’m here to make money,” said Mr. Zhang, a 28-year-old former coal miner from Shanxi Province who is saving money to build a home, widely seen in the countryside as indispensable in attracting a wife. “If I’m not diligent now, I’m going to regret it. I’m almost 30 and still single.”
“我是来挣钱的，”28岁的张恒说。他来自山西省，当过矿工，正在攒钱盖房。在中国农村，房子被普遍认为是娶媳妇的必备条件。“如果我现在不努力，将来会后悔的。我都快30了，还在打光棍。”
China hopes to move away from manufacturing and seeks to build a more service-oriented economy driven by accountants, lawyers and other professionals. Yet for migrant workers at the bottom of the pay scale, service work can mean conditions not unlike those in China’s factories, where lax enforcement has long led to excessive overtime and unsafe conditions.
中国希望从制造业转型，建立由会计和律师等专业人士驱动的服务导向经济。但是，对收入底层的农民工来说，服务业的一些环境跟中国工厂的环境不无雷同。在工厂里，执法不严长期导致过度加班和不安全的工作环境。
Some couriers work directly for companies such as JD.com, an e-commerce retailer, or SF Express, a delivery service. Others drive for a group of delivery companies that dominate the business of ferrying packages on behalf of online retailers like Alibaba. One of those companies, ZTO Express, last year raised $1.4 billion in a share offering on the New York Stock Exchange.
有些快递员直接为电子商务零售商京东或快递公司顺丰等公司工作。还有些为诸多快递公司工作，它们主导着包裹快递市场，为阿里巴巴等在线零售商服务。其中的中通快递去年在纽约证券交易所(New York Stock Exchange)的股票发行中筹资14亿美元。
Those companies run nationwide distribution networks but rely on smaller companies for last-mile delivery — and there the relationships can become murky. Those smaller companies, which are franchisees of the big delivery companies, sign up drivers as employees or contractors. Some of those drivers subcontract their work to other drivers.
那些公司拥有全国快递网络，但是依赖更小的公司完成最后一公里的投递，这一环节的关系可能很模糊。那些更小的公司是大快递公司旗下的特许经营者，它们可能以员工或承包工的方式跟快递员签约。有些快递员把自己的部分业务再进一步分包给其他快递员。
Those arrangements often result in couriers who drive under the name of a big delivery company but whose hours and terms are only loosely managed, experts say. For example, many drivers lack workers’ compensation benefits or insurance in case of accidents, said Jin Yingjie, a professor specializing in labor law at the China University of Political Science and Law.
专家表示，这种方式往往导致一些快递员名义上是为大型快递公司工作，但工作时间和合同条款都没有得到严格执行。中国政法大学劳动法教授金英杰称，许多快递员在出事故时没有工伤补贴或保险。
Delivery companies “should work to bring the industry into the confines of the labor law,” she said.
她说，快递公司“应该努力将这个行业置于劳动法的约束范围内”。
Meanwhile, tough conditions have led to unrest among couriers, said Keegan Elmer, a researcher for China Labor Bulletin, a workers’ rights group based in Hong Kong.
香港的劳工权利组织中国劳工通讯(China Labour Bulletin)的研究员基根·埃尔默(Keegan Elmer)称，与此同时，艰苦的工作条件已经在快递员中引发骚动。
“The delivery companies are pushing drivers to the point of taking collective action,” Mr. Elmer said.
“快递公司正把快递员们推向采取集体行动的边缘，”埃尔默说。
In December, a weeklong strike brought deliveries by one package company partly owned by Alibaba, YTO Express, to a halt in Baoji, a city in Shaanxi Province.
去年12月，长达一周的罢工导致阿里巴巴部分持股的圆通速递公司的陕西宝鸡分部业务停摆。
“Where’s our October pay?” one of the deliverymen told a local TV station. “There needs to be someone in charge handling this. There’s nobody.”
“10月份的费用到现在还没结呢，”其中一位快递员在接受当地电视台采访时说。“总得有个老大来说话，现在没人管。”
A spokeswoman for YTO Express said the strike was caused by a franchisee who did not promptly calculate fees or properly communicate with couriers.
圆通速递的一名发言人表示，这场罢工是一个特许经营商引发的，它没有及时结算工资，也没跟快递员们沟通好。
“Alibaba is a leader in big data technology,” an Alibaba spokesman said in a statement. “Taking advantage of that strength, we are committed to helping the logistics industry improve its efficiency and the working conditions for couriers and other industry participants.”
“在大数据技术领域，阿里巴巴是一个领导者，”阿里巴巴的一位发言人在一份声明中表示。“依靠这种优势，我们决心帮助物流行业提高效率，改善快递员和其他行业参与者的工作条件。”
Most couriers make about $300 to $600 a month, according to the Jiaotong study — an amount roughly equal to the wages of China’s migrant factory workers. They can deliver 150 packages on a weekday, drivers said, sometimes helped by making mass deliveries to office buildings.
北京交通大学进行的那项调查显示，大部分快递员每个月大约能赚300至600美元——与在工厂里工作的中国农民工收入基本相当。快递员们表示，在工作日，他们每天能送150个包裹，有时是得益于往写字楼里批量递送。
Couriers generally make about 15 cents per package delivered, according to drivers and reports in the state news media, though they can make more by picking up outgoing packages from customers or through other tasks.
官方新闻媒体的报道和快递员的说法显示，他们每送一个包裹一般能赚15美分（约1元人民币），不过从客户那里接单子或有其他任务，可以赚得更多。
The work initially appealed to many as package volume boomed. But their pay per package has barely budged in recent years as competition intensified and more drivers entered the market. About 40 percent of couriers quit within a year, according to the Jiaotong study.
在包裹数量激增时，这个职业吸引了许多人。但是随着竞争加剧，以及更多人员加入这个市场，他们送一个包裹赚的钱在最近几年几乎没有增长。交通大学的那项研究显示，约40%的快递员会在一年内转行。
“Most deliverymen are like me,” said Lu Yong, who quit in December. “They work for three months and realize it’s no good.”
“大多数快递员跟我一样，”去年12月辞职的卢勇（音）说。“他们干了三个月，发现并不好干。”
Mr. Lu, 29, of Henan Province, spent years assembling electronics in the southern province of Guangdong before going to work for a ZTO Express franchisee in Beijing. “The factories lack the same freedom as delivery, but it’s not cold like here,” he said. “And every month you get four days of rest, too.”
29岁的卢勇来自河南省，在为中通快递的一个北京特许经营商工作之前，他在中国南方省份广东省组装电子元件多年。“在工厂工作不像干快递这么自由，但那儿不像这儿这么冷，”他说。“而且每个月还有四天休息时间。”
Mr. Lu’s November pay slip showed that he was paid $382 on 4,291 packages delivered, after fines and other expenses including his uniform. He says he pays for maintenance on his cart, which bears ZTO’s logo, including new tires, replacement batteries and new brakes. He also said he never signed a labor contract.
卢勇11月的工资单显示，他递送4291个包裹获得的报酬是382美元（约合2600人民币），这个数字扣除了罚金以及包括制服在内的其他费用。他说他还要支付自己开的那辆带有中通标志的快递车的保养费用，包括更换轮胎、电池和刹车的费用。他说自己从没签过劳动合同。
James Guo, the chief financial officer of ZTO Express, said that it required its franchisees to comply with local laws but that “it’s not up to us to manage or control the compensation of our deliverymen.”
中通的首席财务官郭健民表示，中通要求自己的特许经营商遵守当地法规，但“我们无权管理或控制快递员的报酬”。
Some thrive. Li Pengbo, 21, from Henan Province, drives for Best Express, another large delivery company in which Alibaba owns a stake. He dominates the area he subcontracted from a Best Express franchisee, he said, and earns about $2,000 a month.
也有些快递员做得风生水起。21岁的李鹏波（音）来自河南，为阿里巴巴持股的另一家大型快递公司百世快递工作。他说他从百世快递的一个特许经营商那里分包了一块业务区，每个月大概能赚2000美元。
“Since the sixth day of the last Chinese New Year until now I haven’t rested, not a single day,” Mr. Li said, describing an 11-month stretch. “I work from 6:30 in the morning until 11 or 12 p.m. at night.”
“从农历初六到现在，我一直都没休息过，一天也没有，”李鹏波说。也就是说，他连着工作了11个月。“我从早上6点半一直干到晚上11点或12点。”
“My family is poor. This bitterness is nothing compared to what they’ve gone through,” he said.
“我家里穷。与家里人受过的苦相比，我这根本不算啥，”他说。
A spokeswoman for Best Express said its franchisees were required to follow labor laws.
百世快递的一位女发言人表示，公司要求其特许经营商遵守劳动法规。
Franchisees say they have borne the brunt of declining delivery prices. “If we can turn a profit eight months of the year, that’s not bad,” said Wang Lin, a franchisee in Beijing for another delivery company, STO Express.
特许经营商们称，快递价格下跌对他们的冲击最大。“一年里要是有8个月盈利，就很不错了，”申通快递的一名北京特许经营商王林（音）说。
Ms. Wang said her franchise does not pay for driver benefits because the drivers are contractors, not employees.
王林称，她的特许经营公司不支付快递员的福利费用，因为他们是承包人，不是员工。
“Frankly it’s not a very good job,” she said. “It’s extremely tiring, the salary is not high, and the responsibility and risks are great. We don’t have a stable work force.”
“坦白说，这不是一份好工作，”她说。“特别累，薪水不高，责任和风险又大。我们的人手很不稳定。”