LONDON — The two cameras sit on the Russian part of the International Space Station. They are named Theia and Iris. And they are available to hire out for “space-based video surveillance.”
伦敦——这两台摄影机架设在国际空间站(International Space Station)上属于俄罗斯的部分。它们的名字叫作忒亚(Theia)和伊里斯(Iris)，可以用于出租，“自太空进行视频监控”。
The space station is generally viewed as a benign, multinational floating science lab. A Canadian astronaut memorably recorded David Bowie’s “Space Oddity” from there. More recently, the American astronaut Scott Kelly has been helping grow zinnias during his yearlong stay, and he conducted an amusing interview with Stephen Colbert this month.
人们通常把这个空间站视为多国合作建设的有益的浮动科学实验室。曾有位加拿大宇航员在这里录唱了大卫‧鲍伊的《太空奇遇》(Space Oddity)。最近还有位美国宇航员斯科特‧凯利(Scott Kelly)在他为期一年的驻站时间里，种出了百日菊。凯利刚在这个月和史蒂芬‧科尔伯特(Stephen Colbert)进行了一场妙趣横生的访谈。
But there is more to the station than spacemen strumming guitars and picking flowers.
不过，这个空间站不只有那些拨弄吉他、养花莳草的宇航员而已。
Email traffic recently released by the European Commission revealed that a Canadian company pitched an idea to the European Union’s beleaguered border agency to use Theia and Iris for border surveillance. The company, called UrtheCast (pronounced “earth cast”), has a deal with the space station’s top Russian contractor, and operates the two cameras with the help of the Russian space agency.
欧盟委员会近来公布的电邮记录，显示一家加拿大公司曾向欧盟面临困境的边境管制机构提出过一个设想，也就是利用忒亚和伊里斯来进行边境监控。这家名叫UrtheCast的公司，与国际空间站主要的俄罗斯承包商合作，并且在俄罗斯航天机构的协助下操作这两架摄影机。
The UrtheCast solicitation was among a number of business proposals made to the European Union’s border agency, Frontex, since 2013, aimed at helping Europe assess its increasingly porous borders. The proposals ranged from the mundane to the outlandish. Businesses offered drones, zeppelins, tethered balloons and a floating contraption tied to a truck with a rope.
欧盟边境管理局(Frontex)自2013年开始，收到了一连串商业提案，UrtheCast的推销也在其中。这些提案旨在协助欧盟管控漏洞日益明显的边境，种种设想从平淡无奇到异想天开的都有。各家企业提出过无人机、飞艇、热气球，还有某种用绳索系在卡车上的新奇飘浮装置。
Airbus, a giant military contractor, contacted Frontex last year about what it called a “floating frontier surveillance platform” that could be used to monitor “inland waterways, and estuaries, lakes.” A Massachusetts company wanted to sell “a field-deployable Rapid DNA Analysis System” to generate DNA profiles “in 84 minutes.” A third company said it could create “algorithms to predict border crossings.”
作为军方的一家大型承包商，空中客车公司(Airbus)就曾为其所谓的“悬浮边境监控平台”，在去年与Frontex接洽。空中客车认为这项计划可以用来监测“内陆水道、河口、湖泊”。美国马萨诸塞州的一家公司则希望出售一套“可在现场部署的快捷DNA分析系统”，该系统“在84分钟内”就能生成基因档案。还有另一家公司表示，能编出“预测越境事件的算法”。
But the most otherworldly idea belonged to UrtheCast. Its cameras, one for video and the other for still images, could be used for the “detection of borders activities,” UrtheCast said in an email to Frontex. UrtheCast said its cameras offered “an unprecedented capability for an integrated persistent space surveillance,” as well as what it called “extraction of situation awareness at certain regions, facilities or events.”
不过，其中最超凡脱俗的主意非UrtheCast莫属。UrtheCast在发给Frontex的电邮中表示，该公司的其中一架摄影机用来录制视频，另一架则用来拍摄静态影像，两者都可供“侦测边境活动”之用 。UrtheCast提到，该公司的摄影机有“前所未有的性能，可用于内建式的持续性太空监控”；他们还形容，其设备可以“对某些地区、设施或事件获取情境感知”。
The space station was set up “for peaceful purposes” in 1998 by the United States, Russia, Canada, Japan and the European Space Agency. Is there a spy satellite lurking in its rafters? The UrtheCast solicitation pointed out that the cameras could “help to provide reliable evidences on certain events without intruding” on neighboring countries’ air space with airplanes or drones.
国际空间站是为了“和平的用途”，在1998年由美国、俄罗斯、加拿大、日本和欧洲航天局(European Space Agency)共同设立的。现在是不是有一颗间谍卫星掩藏在它的庇荫之下？UrtheCast的提案指出了一个事实，也就是这些摄影机可以在不用飞机或无人机侵犯邻国领空的情况下，“协助提供关于特定事件的可靠证据”。
UrtheCast is hardly alone. More than 30 companies have been involved in commercial projects with the station, but those are generally research. Merck has studied antibodies, for example, and a subsidiary of Puma has tested coatings for golf clubs.
UrtheCast并不是唯一的例子。已经有超过30家公司与国际空间站进行过商业合作，不过这些计划大多是研究性质的。比方说，默克公司(Merck)曾在空间站进行抗体研究，而飙马(Puma)的一家子公司也曾在站上测试高尔夫球杆的涂层。
A spokesman for Frontex said that the agency did not accept UrtheCast’s offer, which was made in 2013, the year the cameras were launched into space from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. Cosmonauts installed them the January after, though neither was fully operational for some time.
Frontex的一位发言人表示，该机构并未接受UrtheCast在2013年提出的这项提议。那两架摄影机就是在2013年从哈萨克斯坦的拜科努尔航天发射场(Baikonur Cosmodrome)发射升空的。俄罗斯宇航员在2014年把这些摄影机安装好，不过有好一段时间，两架摄影机都不能全面运转。
While it has been reported that the Russian space agency keeps all of the images taken of Russia, an UrtheCast executive, Jeff Rath, would not confirm or deny that in an interview. Nor would he provide details about his clients.
尽管据报道俄罗斯空间机构保存着所有关于俄罗斯的图像，但UrtheCast高管杰夫·拉斯(Jeff Rath)在接受采访时对此不置可否。他也不愿透露客户的详细情况。
“We don’t talk about our customers,” Mr. Rath said. “We’ll sell to governments, and we’ll sell to businesses,” he said, as well as to nongovernmental organizations.
“我们不谈论客户，”拉斯说。“我们会向政府销售数据，也会向企业销售数据，”他说，还会向非政府组织销售。
Pepsi and Heineken have used video from UrtheCast in commercials. And UrtheCast has signed a five-year, $65 million contract with an unnamed customer, according to Canadian securities filings.
百事(Pepsi)和喜力(Heineken)曾在广告中使用过UrtheCast提供的视频。加拿大的证券披露文件显示，UrtheCast还与一个客户签署了为期五年价值6500万美元的合同。文件中未透露客户的名字。
One of its most recent filings said that “many government customers” needed satellite imagery “to supervise and manage, among other things, resources, animal migrations and national borders.” A variety of customers used UrtheCast services “to track environmental changes, natural disasters and human conflicts,” the filing said.
该公司最新一轮披露文件中有一份称，“许多政府客户”需要用卫星图像“来监督和管理自然资源、动物迁徙和国家边界等事务”。该份披露文件称，一系列客户也使用UrtheCast的服务“来追踪环境变化、自然灾害和人类冲突”。
“We’ve got very strong support from our I.S.S. partners, NASA and Roscosmos,” Mr. Rath said, referring to the American and Russian space agencies. “Our support has been unwavering from both.”
“我们从国际空间站的合作伙伴美国国家航空航天局(NASA)和俄罗斯联邦航天局(Roscosmos)那里得到了有力的支持，”拉斯说。“双方对我们的支持一直是坚定不移的。”
Daniel Huot, a NASA spokesman, said in an email, “NASA did not have any involvement with the UrtheCast payload (it was pitched to and flown by our Russian colleagues) so I would have to direct you back to UrtheCast or Roscosmos.”
NASA的一名发言人丹尼尔·霍特(Daniel Huot)在一份电子邮件中写道，“NASA与UrtheCast的载荷没有任何关联（主意是向我们的俄罗斯同事提出的，也是由俄罗斯同事运送升空的），所以只好请您回去询问UrtheCast或俄联邦航天局了。”
Roscosmos did not respond to requests for comment.
俄联邦航天局没有答复置评请求。
Urthecast operates a subsidiary in Russia, and Sberbank, the state-owned bank that is Russia’s largest bank, owns more than 1 percent of UrtheCast’s shares, according to Morningstar, an investment research company. Fidelity, an investment firm based in Boston, owns nearly 15 percent.
晨星(Morningstar)投资研究公司称，Urthecast在俄罗斯经营着一家子公司，且俄罗斯最大的银行、国有的俄罗斯联邦储蓄银行(Sberbank)持有Urthecast公司1%的股份。总部位于波士顿的投资公司富达投资(Fidelity)持有近15%。
The field of satellite imagery is competitive, since selling pictures from above is not as unusual anymore. In addition to dedicated spy satellites, there is a growing crop of companies with pictures to sell, or that offer their cameras for specific projects.
由于销售太空拍摄的图片已经不再像以前那么不寻常，卫星图像领域的竞争日趋激烈。除了专门的间谍卫星外，出售图片或为具体项目提供拍摄服务的公司也越来越多。
DigitalGlobe, a Colorado-based company, says its satellites “are capable of collecting over one billion square kilometers of quality imagery per year.” The California start-up Planet Labs makes flocks of tiny satellites that it calls doves. Google paid $500 million in 2014 to purchase Skybox Imaging, a provider of satellite imagery.
总部位于科罗拉多州的公司“数字地球”(DigitalGlobe)表示，该公司的卫星“每年有能力收集超过10亿平方公里的高质量图像”。加利福尼亚州的创业企业“行星实验室”(Planet Labs)成批地制造被称为“鸽子”的微型卫星。谷歌(Google)在2014年花5亿美元收购了卫星图像提供商天匣成像(Skybox Imaging)。
There are about 1,400 active satellites, according to the Union of Concerned Scientists, a Washington environmental advocacy group that tracks satellites. They are used for all manner of purposes, like illuminating the effects of Somali piracy or revealing ancient earthworks in Kazakhstan.
忧思科学家联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)称，目前有大约1400颗正在使用中的卫星。华盛顿的这家环境倡导团体会对卫星进行追踪调查。这些卫星用途各异，如研究索马里海盗的影响或发现哈萨克斯坦的古代土垒。
“These high-definition imaging satellites used to be the exclusive domain of the major space powers,” said Laura Grego, a senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists. But now, Theia and Iris are becoming anything but space oddities. “The satellite imagery business is in a lot of flux,” she said.
“这些高分辨率的成像卫星曾经是主要太空大国的垄断领域，”忧思科学家联盟的一位高级科学家劳拉·格雷高(Laura Grego)称。但现在，忒亚和伊里斯已经远远不仅是太空中的怪东西了。她说，“现在卫星成像行业十分活跃。”