WHEN Sara Story is looking for light fixtures, her feeling is, the bolder, the better.
当萨拉·斯托里(Sara Story)在挑选灯具的时候，她的体会是，越大胆越好。
“I’m always willing to take more of a risk with a light fixture than I am with a fabric color or wallpaper,” she said, noting that her clients often tell her that the fixtures she chooses for them are their favorite thing about her work.
“我在灯具的选用上一向乐于冒点儿险，但在装饰面料的颜色或墙纸上则不然，”她说，还提到其客户常常告诉她，她为他们选择的灯具是他们在整个设计方案中最喜欢的东西。
And when it comes to chandeliers, drama is even more important.
而就枝形吊灯而言，夸张的造型就更为重要了。
Ms. Story, 40, an interior designer in Manhattan, likened a chandelier to “a piece of sculpture or jewelry” for a room that also happens to provide illumination and ambience. “You could do a really quiet room and just have this spectacular chandelier,” she said. “And the balance will work very well.”
现年40岁的斯托里是曼哈顿的室内设计师，她把枝形吊灯比作房间里恰巧可以提供照明和烘托气氛的“一件雕塑或珠宝”。“你可以布置出一间宁静的房间，只需要有这盏漂亮的枝形吊灯就行了，”她说，“这会平衡得非常好。”
In Ms. Story’s world, chandeliers aren’t limited to the traditional cluster of crystal. There are many other materials, colors and shapes that offer a variety of looks. But choose carefully: a chandelier “gives a place so much character,” she said, and invariably has a major impact on a room.
在斯托里的世界里，枝形吊灯的概念并不局限于一簇水晶的传统样式，还可以有其它许多材料、颜色和形状，使得灯具的样子千差万别。但是，请精心选择，因为一盏枝形吊灯“会赋予一个地方很强烈的风格特征，”她说，无疑会对整个房间产生很大影响。
At Artemide in SoHo, she pointed out the Mercury LED suspension lamp by Ross Lovegrove, which appeared to dangle a handful of silvery pebbles in midair. Describing its futuristic look as “very spaceship,” Ms. Story said it would be an unexpected choice for a dining room, and would be particularly well suited to a large space.
在苏豪区(SoHo)的阿特米德（Artemide，欧洲知名灯具品牌——译注）店内，她挑出了由罗斯·洛夫格罗夫(Ross Lovegrove)设计的水银LED吊灯(Mercury LED)，那盏灯看起来就像将一把银色鹅卵石悬吊在空中。斯托里形容这盏灯的新潮外观“很有太空飞船的感觉”，她说，这盏灯将会是餐厅里的意外之选，而且特别适合宽敞的空间。
Just up the street, at Design Within Reach, she picked out the Modo 10-globe chandelier by Jason Miller for Roll & Hill. “It’s edgy and chic,” she said, admiring the way its sticklike frame spreads out horizontally to give it a strong presence in a room.
在这条街上游的Design Within Reach店里，她又挑中了由杰森·米勒(Jason Miller)为Roll & Hill设计的Modo 10-globe吊灯。“这盏灯既前卫又优雅，”她说，赞许这盏灯木棍状的框架水平伸展的样子，挂在房间里特别醒目。
At Flos, she stood transfixed by the Nebula fixture by Joris Laarman, made with 10 blown-glass cones of varying sizes that “almost look like big speakers,” she said. “I just want to stare at it.”
而在Flos灯具店，尤里斯·拉曼(Joris Laarman)设计的星云灯(Nebula)让她看呆了。那盏灯由10个大小不一的吹制玻璃圆锥体组成，“看起来就像是一些大音箱，”她说，“我只想盯着它看。”
Ms. Story often uses vintage chandeliers in her projects, so she also stopped at Bernd Goeckler Antiques in Greenwich Village, where she admired the many midcentury fixtures before settling on a favorite: a 1950s brass suspension light by Angelo Lelii for Arredoluce, with bright red, blue and yellow shades on adjustable gooseneck arms.
斯托里常常在自己的设计中使用古老的烛台吊灯，所以，她还到格林威治村(Greenwich Village)的古董店Bernd Goeckler Antiques看了看。她在店里看中了好几盏二十世纪中叶的灯具，最后还是买下了自己最喜欢的那盏：由安吉洛·莱利(Angelo Lelii)为Arredoluce设计的一盏20世纪50年代的铜吊灯。在这盏灯可调节的鹅颈灯臂上，安有鲜艳的红色、蓝色和黄色的灯罩。
But not everyone, she acknowledged, is ready for such unconventional chandeliers. For those who are hesitant about committing to an ultramodern fixture, Ms. Story recommended the Veronique Linear 14 by Steven Sclaroff, at Remains Lighting.
但她承认，不是每个人都能接受这种非传统的枝形吊灯。对那些还在犹豫要不要安装一盏非常时尚的灯具的人，斯托里推荐那款由史蒂芬·斯克拉罗夫(Steven Sclaroff)设计的Veronique Linear 14吊灯，在Remains Lighting灯具店有售。
“It’s a contemporary take on the traditional chandelier,” she said. In other words, a dramatic choice, but not a risky one.
“这是一款采纳了传统枝形吊灯元素的现代灯具，”她说。换句话讲，这个选择很出挑，但并不冒险。