CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — Last month, I received a startling email from an employee at one of Japan’s largest newspapers, about a development I’d long awaited. The government was about to unveil a 12,000-page, 61-volume official biography of Emperor Hirohito, which a large team of scholars and civil servants had been preparing since 1990, the year after his death.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇——上个月，我收到了一封令人惊讶的邮件。日本一家大型报纸的工作人员，向我通知了一个期待已久的进展。日本政府将发布裕仁天皇(Emperor Hirohito)的官方传记，这部传记长达1.2万页，共有61卷。1990年，也就是在裕仁天皇逝世一年后，一支规模庞大的学者和公务员团队，开始了编篡传记的工作。
I was asked if I would examine an embargoed excerpt from this enormous trove and then comment on the emperor’s perspective on various events, including Japan’s 1937 expansion of its conflict in China and its decision four years later to go to war with the United States and Britain; the trial of war criminals; the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki; and the American military occupation of postwar Japan.
这位工作人员问我，能否审阅传记正式出版前不可外传的一份梗概，之后就裕仁天皇对各大事件的态度发表评论。比如日本1937年扩大在华冲突的举动，以及四年后与美国、英国开战的决定；战犯的审判；广岛和长崎遭到原子弹轰炸的事件；以及战后美国对日本的军事占领。
But there was a condition: I could not discuss Hirohito’s “role and responsibility” in World War II, which would be strictly outside the scope of the newspaper’s reporting. Having devoted years of my life to examining precisely this topic, I politely refused.
但有一个条件：我不能谈论裕仁天皇在二战中的“角色与责任”，该报严格禁止此类报道。由于多年来一直致力于探究这一话题，我婉言谢绝了他们的请求。
The release of Hirohito’s official biography should be an occasion for reflection around the world on a war that, in the Pacific theater, took the lives of at least 20 million Asians (including more than three million Japanese) and more than 100,000 citizens of the Western Allied nations, primarily the United States and Britain.
裕仁天皇官方传记的发布，应该是全世界审视这场战争的一个时机。在太平洋战场上，这场战争至少造成2000万亚洲人（包括300多万日本人）及10多万西方盟国——主要是美英两国——民众丧生。
Instead, Japan’s Imperial Household Agency, abetted by the Japanese media, has dodged important questions about events before, during and after the war. The new history perpetuates the false but persistent image — endorsed by the Allied military occupation, led by Gen. Douglas MacArthur — of a benign, passive figurehead.
但在日本媒体的怂恿下，日本宫内厅(Imperial Household Agency)回避了一些涉及战前、战中及战后事件的重要问题。新传记延续了一种虚假但持久的形象——裕仁天皇是一个和善而被动的傀儡。这一形象也得到了由道格拉斯·麦克阿瑟(Douglas MacArthur)领导的驻日盟军的认可。
As I and other scholars have tried to show, Hirohito, from the start of his rule in 1926, was a dynamic, activist and conflicted monarch who operated within a complex system of irresponsibility inherited from his grandfather, the Meiji emperor, who oversaw the start of Japan’s epochal modernization. Hirohito (known in Japan as Showa, the name of his reign) represented an ideology and an institution — a system constructed to allow the emperor to interject his will into the decision-making process, before prime ministers brought cabinet decisions to him for his approval. Because he operated behind the scenes, the system allowed his advisers to later insist that he had acted only in accordance with their advice.
就像我和其他学者努力证明的那样，裕仁天皇自1926年登基开始，就是一个强势、激进且矛盾的君主，他继承了其祖父明治天皇(Meiji)建立的复杂的免责制度，并在其中开展行动。日本划时代的现代化进程，就是由明治天皇开启的。裕仁天皇（在日本被称为昭和天皇[Showa]，昭和是他在位期间的年号）代表着一种意识形态，也代表着一种制度——在首相将内阁的决定上奏天皇寻求批准之前，天皇就能按自己的意愿干预决策过程。由于他是在幕后行动，他的顾问们事后就可以坚称，天皇只是根据他们的建议行事。
In fact, Hirohito was never a puppet. He failed to prevent his army from invading Manchuria in 1931, which caused Japan to withdraw from the League of Nations, but he sanctioned the full-scale invasion of China in 1937, which moved Japan into a state of total war. He exercised close control over the use of chemical weapons in China and sanctioned the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. Even after the war, when a new, American-modeled Constitution deprived him of sovereignty, he continued to meddle in politics.
实际上，裕仁天皇绝不是一个傀儡。1931年，他没能阻止日军侵略满洲，导致日本退出国际联盟(League of Nations)，但他在1937年批准了日本全面侵华的行动，使得日本进入全面战争状态。他严格控制着日军在中国使用化学武器的行动，并批准日军于1941年袭击珍珠港。即便是在战后，依照美国意见制定的新宪法剥夺了他的统治权，他仍然在插手政治。
From what I’ve read, the new history suffers from serious omissions in editing, and the arbitrary selection of documents. This is not just my view. The magazine Bungei Shunju asked three writers, Kazutoshi Hando, Masayasu Hosaka and Michifumi Isoda, to read parts of the history. They pointed out, in the magazine’s October issue, significant omissions. Only the first of the emperor’s 11 meetings with General MacArthur was mentioned in detail. Instead, the scholars noted Hirohito’s schoolboy writings and commented on trivialities like the discovery of the place where his placenta was buried.
从我阅读的内容来看，新传记的编撰存在严重遗漏，任意选用材料的问题。这不仅仅是我的观点。《文艺春秋》(Bungei Shunju)杂志邀请了三位作家半藤一利(Kazutoshi Hando)、保阪正康(Masayasu Hosaka)和矶田道史(Michifumi Isoda)阅读传记的部分内容。他们在《文艺春秋》10月刊中指出，传记存在重大遗漏。在裕仁天皇与麦克阿瑟将军的11次会面中，只有第一次会面得到了详细描述。可是学者们却看到了裕仁天皇学生时期的文章，以及他对一些琐事的评论，比如他发现了自己胎盘的掩埋处。
That does not mean that the project is without merit. Researchers collected 3,152 primary materials, including some previously not known to exist, such as the memoirs of Adm. Saburo Hyakutake, the emperor’s aide-de-camp from 1936 to 1944. They documented Hirohito’s messages to Shinto deities, fleshing out his role as chief priest of the state religion. They collected vital materials on the exact times, dates and places of imperial audiences with civil and military officials and diplomats.
这并不意味着该传记毫无价值。研究人员收集了3152份原始资料，其中一些内容过去从未公之于众，比如在1936年至1944年期间担任侍从长的百武三郎大将(Saburo Hyakutake)的回忆录。他们记录了裕仁天皇对神道教神祇的话语，完善了有关他是日本国教最高祭司的说法。他们搜集了一些重要资料，记录了天皇接见文武官员及外交官的确切时间、日期及地点。
Hirohito was a timid opportunist, eager above all to preserve the monarchy he had been brought up to defend. War was not essential to his nature, as it was for Hitler and Europe’s fascists. The new history details his concern over the harsh punishments enacted in 1928 to crush leftist and other opposition to Japan’s rising militarism and ultranationalism. It elaborates on his role in countering a coup attempt in 1936 by young Army officers who wanted to install an even more right-wing, militaristic government. It notes that he cried for only the second time in his life when his armed forces were dissolved.
裕仁天皇是一个胆怯的机会主义者，急于维护自己生来就要保卫的君权。不像希特勒(Hitler)和欧洲的法西斯主义者，好战在他的天性中并非关键成分。日本军国主义和极端民族主义情绪高涨之时，一些民众表达了反对，1928年，日本采取严厉措施，对于左派和这些反对派进行打压。新传记中详细阐述了裕仁天皇对此番打压行动的忧虑。书中还详细记述了他在1936年应对日本陆军青年军官政变时扮演的角色，那些军官希望建立一个更加右倾、更加军事化的政府。传记中写道，裕仁天皇在军队解散时流了泪，这是他一生中第二次流泪。
The official history confirms Hirohito’s bullheadedness in delaying surrender when it was clear that defeat was inevitable. He hoped desperately to enlist Stalin’s Soviet Union to obtain more favorable peace terms. Had Japan surrendered sooner, the firebombing of its cities, and the two atomic bombings, might have been avoided.
该官方传记确认，尽管败局已定，裕仁天皇仍旧非常固执，拖延着不愿投降。他极其希望能够得到斯大林(Stalin)领导的苏联的帮助，以便获取更为有利的和平条款。如果日本早一点投降，日本城市遭到轰炸的命运，以及那两颗原子弹的疮痍或许就可以避免。
Why does all this matter, nearly 70 years since the end of the war?
战争结束已近70年，这段历史为何依然重要呢？
Unlike Germany, where acceptance of responsibility for the Nazis’ crimes is embedded in government policy, Japan’s government has never engaged in a full-scale reckoning of its wartime conduct. This is partly because of the anti-imperialist dimension of the war it fought against Western powers, and partly because of America’s support for European colonialism in the early Cold War. But it is also a result of a deliberate choice — abetted by the education system and the mass media, with notable exceptions — to overlook or distort issues of accountability.
在德国，为纳粹罪行承担责任是政府政策的一部分。与德国不同，日本政府从来没有充分正视其在战争中的行为。这一定程度上是因为，日本与西方列强的战争存在反对帝国主义的维度，且美国在冷战初期曾支持欧洲的殖民主义。不过，这也是日本刻意选择忽视和歪曲战争责任问题的结果，教育体系和大众传媒起到了推波助澜的作用，尽管有一些明显的例外。
The new history comes at a politically opportune time. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party government is waging a campaign to pump up nationalist pride. Mr. Abe has made no secret of his desire to enhance the monarchy’s status in a revised “peace constitution” that would rewrite Article 9, which prohibits Japan from maintaining offensive forces.
这份新传记的编纂恰逢一个政治上很讨巧的时机。日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)领导的自民党政府，目前正在发动一场意在提升民族主义自豪感的运动。安倍晋三修改“和平宪法”的尝试，明确显示出了他为这个君主立宪制国家提升地位的渴望。修改后的宪法将改写禁止日本保留进攻部队的第九条。