Casseroles have an image problem.
砂锅菜（西方的这种“乱炖”并不是炖出来的，而是用烤盘烘培出来的——译注）有个形象问题。
The word itself conjures canned cream of mushroom soup and fried onions, limp green beans and rubbery noodles, the stuff of uninspired potlucks and Grandma’s house.
这个词本身让人想起的是罐装蘑菇汤膏、烤洋葱、软绵绵的青豆和嚼不动的面条，毫无新意的家常便饭和祖母的家。
This isn’t to say you don’t have a soft spot for a good homey casserole, perhaps a nostalgic tuna noodle number set out on the kitchen table.
倒不是说好吃的家常砂锅菜不能打动你，比如摆放在厨房餐桌上的怀旧的金枪鱼面条。
But the coziness of the casserole may have eclipsed the culinary virtues of the dish, which is not dowdy in its DNA. It is not inherently bland or one-note. It does not have to contain even a single strand of melted cheese, or be dusted with crushed potato chips.
但是砂锅菜的方便可能掩盖了它的烹饪优点，这道菜从本质上讲不是偷懒的菜。它不是天生乏味、单调。它不需要使用哪怕一条融化的奶酪，也不需要撒上碎炸薯条。
Quite the opposite. The casserole can be nuanced and urbane, with room for fresh ingredients, clever details and a vivid palette of flavors.
相反，砂锅可以是微妙、都市化的，可以含有新鲜的食材、聪明的细节和丰富的滋味。
After all, there’s nothing wrong with baking assorted ingredients together in a dish, which is essentially what a casserole is. When done just right, the elements merge in the oven’s heat, building on one another until the flavors unite into a delicious whole, preferably one with a golden top and appealingly moist center. Then there is the matter of how amply a casserole feeds a crowd, and how once it is in the oven, it can be ignored until dinnertime.
毕竟，把各种食材放到一个盘子上烘烤没什么错，砂锅本质上就是这样的。如果做法得当，这些原料能通过烤箱的热度融合到一起，相互作用，形成一个美味的整体，最好顶部金黄，内部多汁诱人。而且，一个砂锅就能让一群人吃得心满意足；把它放入烤箱之后就不用管了，晚餐开始时取出来就行了。
The casserole is also ancient. It’s a method that predates ovens, when covered vessels of meat and vegetables were buried in hot embers to cook. Over the centuries, that method has produced some of the most enticing recipes in the world.
砂锅菜也很古老。在烤箱出现之前就有这种烹饪方法了：给放满肉和菜的器皿盖上盖子，埋入热灰烬里烹制。经过几个世纪，这种方法已经演变出世界上最诱人的若干菜谱。
Take cassoulet, the classic French mix of beans, duck confit and sausages, baked with bread crumbs on top. (Like a casserole, cassoulet was named for the dish in which it’s traditionally baked: the cassole.) There is the tagine, another dish that shares a name with its cooking vessel, while moussaka, shepherd’s pie and lasagna are other exalted examples of the form. Gratins are simply casseroles by other names, and let’s not forget savory bread puddings and stratas, which move the casserole concept from dinner to brunch.
以法式砂锅菜为例。这道经典的法国菜把豆子、鸭腿、香肠混合到一起，顶部放上面包屑烘烤（和砂锅菜一样，法式砂锅菜的名字也是以这道菜传统做法所用的器皿——砂锅——命名的）。泰琼锅羊肉也是一道以烹饪器皿命名的菜肴；希腊茄合(moussaka)、牧羊人馅饼和烤宽面条是这种做法的一些高端例子。奶油烤菜(gratins)其实也是砂锅菜，只不过换了个名字。不要忘了美味的面包布丁和分层砂锅菜(stratas)，它们把砂锅菜的概念从正餐转移到了早午餐上。
In the United States, however, casseroles swerved toward convenience, especially in the postwar years, when newly introduced lines of canned food had an air of modern glamour. Cooks were taught to rely on cans for ease and what was said to be good health, since the cans contained factory-produced, sterile ingredients. This gave birth to the likes of the famous eight-can casserole with canned chicken, two kinds of “cream of” soup, evaporated milk and canned chow mein noodles.
但是在美国，砂锅菜变成了便利菜肴，特别是在战后那些年，新推出的罐装食品有一种现代化的魅力。厨师们被告知，依靠罐装食品能获得便利和所谓的健康，因为罐装食品里含有工厂生产的无菌原料。这孕育了著名的八罐砂锅——用罐装鸡肉、两种浓缩“汤膏”、炼乳和罐装炒面制作。
Compare this with what Floyd Cardoz, the chef of North End Grill in Battery Park City (and formerly of Tabla), was eating in Bombay as a child. You wouldn’t necessarily think of a fragrant baked rice dish with cardamom, cinnamon, golden fried onion and browned meat as a casserole. But biryani meets the definition with panache.
把这个与炮台公园市“北端烤肉店”(North End Grill)的大厨弗洛伊德·卡尔德斯（Floyd Cardoz，以前是Tabla餐馆的大厨）小时候在孟买吃的食物相比。你不一定会想到用香喷喷的烤米饭搭配小豆蔻、肉桂、金黄色的烤洋葱和烤肉做一个砂锅。但是印度比尔亚尼菜完全符合砂锅菜的定义。
These days, when Mr. Cardoz cooks at home for his family, he often makes a casserole that borrows from the Parsis in India, a group of Zoroastrian Persians who settled in the country sometime between the eighth and 10th centuries. He starts with a tomato sauce spiked with ginger, fresh mint and green chiles, which he pours over potatoes before baking. Near the end, he cracks eggs on top and bakes until they are just set. The dish is perfumed, pungent and creamy from the runny yolk that coats each tomato-laden bite.
如今，卡尔德斯给家人做饭时，经常借鉴印度帕西人的方法做砂锅。帕西人是波斯的索罗亚斯德派教徒，他们在8世纪至10世纪之间的某个时候开始在印度定居。他在番茄酱中加入姜、鲜薄荷和青椒，倒到土豆上烘培。快做好时，在上面打几个鸡蛋，烤至鸡蛋刚刚凝固。这道菜芳香、辛辣，液态蛋黄裹住了每一口饱含番茄酱的米饭，像奶油一样绵滑。
Even though he uses more aromatic and eclectic ingredients than what most Americans expect, his casseroles are no less convenient, and they hold his family’s interest. An example is a Middle Eastern-inspired dish of lamb ribs and chickpeas with dried limes, tamarind and clove. “Casseroles like this are great for my kids when they get tired of Indian food,” he said.
虽然他用的原料芳香扑鼻，来源广泛，大多数美国人根本想不到，但他的砂锅菜做起来没有任何不便，而且很合家人的胃口。其中一个例子是以中东菜为灵感，把羊肋和鹰嘴豆与干酸橙、酸角和蒜瓣搭配在一起。“我的孩子们吃腻了印度菜的时候，这样的砂锅很惹他们喜欢，”他说。
Other New York chefs have put casseroles on their menus, from the highbrow interpretations of macaroni and cheese (yes, a casserole) to gnocchi gratins covered in pecorino to baked ratatouilles.
其他纽约大厨们把砂锅菜加到了他们的菜单上，从对通心粉和奶酪（是的，这是一种砂锅菜）的高端阐释到羊乳酪覆盖的团子奶油烤菜，以及烤蔬菜什锦。
Nicholas Wilber, the chef at the Fat Radish on the Lower East Side, has served cassoulet, potpies and savory crumbles to an appreciative, stylish throng. “Making a casserole is easy,” he said. “You just toss everything into a dish and bake it all together. But making a good casserole is much harder. You have to really think about how the ingredients are going to meld as they cook.”
下东区胖萝卜(Fat Radish)餐馆的大厨尼古拉斯·威尔伯(Nicholas Wilber)给有鉴赏力的、时髦的顾客们供应砂锅菜、肉炖面团和美味的面包屑。“做砂锅菜很容易，”他说，“你把所有的原料放到器皿里一起烤就行了。但是做出好吃的砂锅菜要难得多。你必须认真考虑这些原料在烘烤的时候会怎样融合。”
For example, in his sophisticated beet crumble — a béchamel-bound dish with clothbound Cheddar and a nubby, peppery oatmeal topping — each bite is different from the last, with sweet beet, soft beet greens and crunchy hazelnuts vying for dominance on your fork. It’s both familiar (picture mac and cheese with vegetables instead of pasta) and utterly unexpected.
比如，他复杂的甜菜根面包屑中含有大量的贝夏梅尔调味酱，上面有精致的切达干酪和胡椒味的块状燕麦片，每一口的味道都不同，甜味的甜菜根、柔软的甜菜叶和松脆的榛子在争夺你的叉子。它既熟悉（想象一下把通心面和奶酪与蔬菜结合起来，而不是意大利面），又完全在意料之外。
Mr. Wilber argues for investing in attractive, single-serving casserole dishes; anything cooked in them is automatically presentable. To that, I would add larger baking dishes, like copper and stoneware gratins. Enameled cast-iron is another handsome choice. Leave your workhorses, the tempered glass bakeware and brownie pans, in the cabinet. The baking dish, which is also the serving dish, should be as alluring as the food it contains.
威尔伯认为应该花点钱买些好看的、单独上桌的砂锅容器；不管你在里面煮什么都马上变得很诱人。对此，我的建议是使用更大的烤盘，比如铜制或石制的脆皮食品盘。珐琅铸铁器皿也是很好的选择。把你那些经久耐用的器皿，比如钢化玻璃烤盘和烤蛋糕盘，留在橱柜里。烤盘同时也是上菜盘，应该和它盛放的食物一样诱人。
The beet crumble takes the casserole in a new direction; more predictable on the usual casserole circuit is a Mexican-style bake with layers of tortillas, beans and melted cheese. Every casserole cookbook has at least one or two recipes for such a thing. Allrecipes.com has about 336.
甜菜面包屑把砂锅菜带到了一个新的方向；常见的砂锅菜大多是墨西哥风味的烘培菜，上面有一层层墨西哥玉米饼、青豆和融化的奶酪。每个砂锅烹饪书中至少有一到两个这样的菜谱。Allrecipes.com网站上大约有336个这样的菜谱。
But the one Pati Jinich writes about in her cookbook, “Pati’s Mexican Table,” is more complex from the use of dried pasilla chiles. I took the recipe further, embellishing it with pickled red onions and pumpkin seeds. A final dollop of crema laced with lime zest is lively and fresh.
但是帕蒂·吉尼奇(Pati Jinich)在她的烹饪书《帕蒂的墨西哥餐桌》(Pati’s Mexican Table)中写的那个菜谱不只是加入干辣椒那么简单。我进一步优化了那个菜谱，用腌红皮洋葱和南瓜籽装饰。最后加上一大团咖啡油脂，用酸橙皮屑装饰，既生动又新鲜。
The recipe originated with Sally Swift, the managing producer of “The Splendid Table” radio show, who grew up in a casserole-happy home in Wisconsin. To her, the fiery, smoky pasilla chiles were an antidote to the bland and mushy bakes of her youth.
这个菜谱最初是电台节目“灿烂的餐桌”(The Splendid Table)的管理制片人萨莉·斯威夫特(Sally Swift)创造的，她在威斯康星州一个很喜欢砂锅菜的家庭长大。对她来说，热烈、呛人的干辣椒是改善她年少时吃的乏味的糊状烤砂锅菜的灵丹妙药。
“I was so disgusted with the casseroles in the Midwest when I was growing up; they were all so gloppy,” she said. “The Mexican casserole tradition has a lot more flavor and pizazz.”
“我小时候特别讨厌中西部的砂锅菜，它们都黏糊糊的，”她说，“墨西哥传统砂锅菜滋味更丰富，更好看。”
In fact, her version has about as much pizazz as a casserole can without losing its warm, gather-round-the-table appeal.
实际上，她的砂锅菜是最好看的，而且没有失去欢聚一堂，围桌共餐的温暖魅力。
Bringing the two together is about as good as dinner gets.
把这两样结合到一起差不多就是完美的晚餐。
Recipes: Black Bean Chorizo Casserole With Pickled Onions | Indian-Spiced Tomato and Egg Casserole | Beet, Greens and Cheddar Crumble
食谱：黑豆辣香肠腌洋葱砂锅 | 印度香料番茄鸡蛋砂锅 | 甜菜根、甜菜叶和切达奶酪面包屑
Indian-Spiced Tomato and Egg Casserole
菜谱：印度香料番茄鸡蛋砂锅
TOTAL TIME 1 hour
总计用时：1小时
INGREDIENTS
配料：
1 1/2 pounds fingerling potatoes
1.5磅小土豆
Kosher salt
粗盐
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1/4杯植物油
1 yellow onion, diced
1个黄皮洋葱，切成小块
1 poblano pepper, seeded if desired, finely chopped
1个钟形青椒，愿意的话去籽、切碎
2 jalapeño peppers, seeded if desired, finely chopped
2个墨西哥辣椒，愿意的话去籽、切碎
2 tablespoons finely chopped peeled ginger
2汤匙切碎的去皮生姜
3 garlic cloves, finely chopped
3个蒜瓣，切碎
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1茶匙磨碎的小茴香
1 teaspoon ground garam marsala
1茶匙磨碎的印度综合香料
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander
1/2茶匙磨碎的胡荽
1 28-ounce can whole peeled tomatoes
1罐28盎司的完全去皮的番茄
1/4 cup chopped fresh mint, more for garnish
1/4杯切碎的鲜薄荷，再备一些装饰用
2 tablespoons chopped cilantro or basil, more for garnish
2汤匙切碎的芫荽或罗勒，再备一些装饰用
6 eggs
6个鸡蛋
Black pepper, as needed
黑胡椒，用量依个人所需
PREPARATION
制作方法：
1. Place potatoes in a large pot and cover with generously salted water. Bring to a boil; cook until potatoes are tender, about 20 minutes. Drain. When just cool enough to handle, slice into 1/2-inch-thick rounds.
1. 把土豆放到一个大锅里，用大量盐水淹没。加热至沸腾，直至土豆变软，约需20分钟。晾干。晾凉至可以处理的时候，切成1/2英寸厚的圆形。
2. While potatoes cook, heat oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add onion and cook until almost tender, 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in peppers and cook 3 minutes. Add ginger, garlic, cumin, garam masala and coriander; cook 1 minute. Stir in tomatoes and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Simmer over medium-low heat, breaking up tomatoes with a fork, 15 minutes. Stir in mint and cilantro or basil. Taste and adjust seasonings.
2. 煮土豆的同时，在一个大平底煎锅中用中到大火把油加热。加入洋葱，炒至稍微变软，约需5至7分钟。加入辣椒，炒3分钟。加入姜、大蒜、小茴香、印度综合香料和胡荽，炒1分钟。加入番茄和1/2茶匙盐。用中到小火慢炖，用叉子把番茄弄碎，需要15分钟。加入薄荷和芫荽或罗勒。尝尝味道，略作调整。
3. Heat oven to 375 degrees. Place potatoes in a single layer in a 9-inch-square baking dish. Pour the hot tomato sauce over potatoes. Transfer pan to oven and bake 20 minutes.
3. 把烤箱加热至375华氏度。把土豆平铺到一个9平方英寸的烤盘上。把热番茄酱倒到土豆上。把烤盘放入烤箱中烤20分钟。
4. Make six wells in the tomato mixture. Crack eggs into wells and season with salt and pepper. Bake until egg whites are set but yolks are still runny, 8 to 13 minutes, depending on how much the potatoes and sauce cooled before baking. Serve garnished with herbs.
4. 在番茄混合物中挖六个坑。在每个坑里打一个鸡蛋，用盐和胡椒调味。烤至蛋白凝固，蛋黄仍是液态，约需8至13分钟，取决于烤之前土豆和番茄酱的冷却程度。用香草装饰上桌。
YIELD 6 servings
份量：6人份。