Officials in Xi’an, the capital of Shaanxi Province, want schools to sell condoms in secondary schools to help combat the spread of H.I.V./AIDS, stirring a heated controversy among parents and educators.
陕西省省会西安市的官员希望在中学销售安全套，以协助艾滋病防治工作。此举引发了家长与教育工作者的热议。
Some teachers warned that the measure would encourage promiscuity among students, whereas reactions among parents were “mixed,” the Huashang News reported.
《华商报》报道，一些教师警告，此举会诱导学生冒险尝试，而家长对此“反应不一”。
In the report on Thursday, the newspaper quoted an unnamed official at the provincial health and family planning commission’s disease prevention and control office as saying that the plan, announced recently by the Xi’an city authorities after provincial education authorities agreed on it in February, was made “after many studies and careful research.” There was no explanation for the lag in the report.
在周二的报道中，该报援引一位未具名的省卫计委疾病预防控制处负责人的解释，称此举“经过多番调研、慎重研究”。这项计划近期由西安市政府公布，依据的是省政府今年2月制定的要求省教育部门督促执行的意见。该报道没有解释中间为何存在时间差。
The decision appeared for now to apply first to schools in Xi’an: middle schools, where students start at age 12; high schools; and vocational schools, which take students from 15. The schools should sell condoms in campus shops or install vending machines, officials said, as a measure to control H.I.V./AIDS’s spread among young people.
看起来，这项意见目前首先在西安的学校践行，涵盖12岁入学的普通初中、普通高中，以及15岁入学的中等职业学校。官方提出，学校应在校园超市销售安全套，或是设置自动发售装置，以防治艾滋病在年轻人中的传播。
“We’re not going to distribute them at schools, but we want them to be sold on the premises,” the newspaper cited the health official as saying.
“是在校园内销售，而不是发放安全套，”《华商报》援引前述卫生官员的说法称。
“This policy is not to encourage sexual activity, but is a preventive measure,” the official said. “In this way, young people can decide, before they have sex, to get a condom, reducing the harm and danger for both partners.”
“出台这一政策，并非鼓励性行为的发生，而是要起到预防作用，”这名负责人说。“就为让年轻人在决定发生性行为前，可以就近买到安全套，降低两性行为的危害程度。”
In the four years from 2010 through 2013, there were more than 80 percent as many H.I.V. infections in Shaanxi as in the previous 20 years, the Huashang News reported.
《华商报》称，2010年至2013年的四年间，陕西省艾滋病的发病数占近20年来全省艾滋病发病总数的80%以上。
From January to October 2013, 1,110 more people contracted H.I.V./AIDS, more than 90 percent from sexual contact, it said. Most of the new infections occurred in young people and manual laborers, the newspaper said. It did not provide the ages of those infected.
文中称，2013年1月至10月，该省新增艾滋病毒感染者和艾滋病病人1110例，90%以上经由性传播，发病人群以青年、务工人群为主。文中没有给出感染者的具体年龄段。
Schools have been required to provide “health education” since 2008, according to Ministry of Education guidelines, but the content of these courses is broad and includes hygiene, nutrition and firefighting, with only a small element of sex education.
根据教育部2008年颁布的指导纲要，中小学校必须开展“健康教育”。不过，这些课程的内容很宽泛，包含个人卫生、营养和消防等内容，只涉及一小部分的性教育。
In reality, many schools do not teach sex education. One obstacle is that it is not an examination subject, making it unpopular among teachers who want to prep students for rigorous academic competition from elementary school through college, and among parents who feel it is a waste of time.
实际上，很多学校并不会开展性教育。其中一个阻碍是，它并不是一个考试科目，在老师当中并不受欢迎，因为老师们需要让学生准备好参与从小学到大学的严酷的学习竞争。家长也感觉这门课是浪费时间。
The decision, titled “A Guiding Decision on Bringing Forward and Doing Well AIDS Prevention Work,” urged schools to follow the guidelines, and debate has been lively, the Huashang News said.
《华商报》称，相关决定名为《关于进一步做好艾滋病防治工作的指导意见》，它敦促各类学校遵循指导意见，引发了激烈讨论。
The education authorities should not require all schools to sell condoms, Sun Aijuan, the director of student affairs at the Gaoxin Yicuiyuan School, in Xi’an, told the newspaper. Instead, the health department should differentiate between schools that provide sex education and those that do not.
西安高新逸翠园学校学生处主任孙爱娟告诉《华商报》，她认为教育部门不应要求所有校园销售安全套，而卫生部门应当区分学校是否开展性教育。
“One situation is schools that already offer sex culture and AIDS prevention education,” she said. “Students there know about the health dangers of casual sex, so it’s not too necessary to sell condoms on campus. If they are offered too early, because teenagers are curious, they may want to try it out, leading to negative consequences.”
“一种是在校园内已接受专门的性文化教育和防艾教育，”她说。“他们对随意性行为会对自身会产生怎样的伤害是有意识的，那么在校园内销售安全套就不太有必要。如果过早地放置，以青少年的好奇心理，反而容易冒险尝试，起到负面作用。”
“The other situation is schools that do not offer sex culture education and such like,” she said. “Those schools may be a more suitable place for selling condoms as a way of telling students it’s a way of prevention and avoidance.”
“另一种情况是，校园如果未开展学生性文化教育等相关课程，那么适当通过销售安全套的形式告诉他们，是可以起到预防和保护作用，”她说。
Another teacher, from the Xi’an No. 10 Middle School, who wasn’t named in the Huashang News article, told the newspaper: “Right now, AIDS prevention education and sex culture education are fairly weak in China. And under these conditions it may be that selling condoms in secondary schools will encourage students to try them out, leading to negative consequences.”
《华商报》采访的另一位不具名的教师来自西安市第十中学。此人表示，“目前国内对艾滋病防治和性文化的正面教育比较薄弱，在这种背景下，在校园内出售安全套可能会诱导中学生去尝试，带来负面影响。”
More than 13 million abortions are performed annually in China, according to a survey by a government research institute that is part of the national family planning commission, now folded into the health ministry.
根据国家人口和计划生育委员会旗下的政府研究所做的一项调查，中国每年堕胎超过1300万例。计生委如今已与卫生部合并。
About six million are performed each year on women under 25, and a key reason is lack of knowledge about sex among the young, according to the survey, reported in 2012 by domestic media including People’s Daily.
调查发现，25岁以下女性的堕胎人次约为每年600万，而一个主要原因就是年轻人缺乏性知识。中国媒体2012年对此项调查进行了报道，其中包括《人民日报》。