XISHUANGBANNA, China — Over the past two decades, the number of Asiatic elephants in Yunnan Province in China has roughly doubled, to nearly 300, thanks to government-financed feeding programs, wildlife education efforts and a strict elephant protection law unmatched anywhere else in the world. Convicted poachers in China face the death penalty.
西双版纳——过去20年，云南省的亚洲象规模大约翻了一番，达到近300头，这归功于政府资助的饲养项目、有关野生动物的教育，以及世界上其他任何国家都无法比拟的严格的大象保护法规。在中国，盗猎者罪名成立后，最高可被判处死刑。
Since 1995, when four people were executed by firing squad for killing an elephant, only a handful of domestic elephants have been poached for their tusks, according to the state news media, and not one in the past decade.
官方媒体报道，1995年，有四人因为猎杀大象被行刑队枪毙，自那以后，仅有极少的圈养大象因为象牙的缘故遭到偷猎，而过去10年中，没有一头大象被猎杀。
“Elephants have it pretty good here because it’s safe and there is plenty to eat,” said Chang Zongbo, a local forestry official. “Once the elephants cross the border from Laos, where hunting is allowed, they never want to go back.”
“大象在这里生活得很好，因为这里很安全，食物充足，”当地林业官员常宗波说。“一旦它们跨越边境，从允许捕猎大象的老挝来到这里，它们就不想回去了。”
The biggest threat they face in China is loss of habitat.
栖息地的丧失是大象在中国面临的最大威胁。
With Yunnan’s forests rapidly giving way to rubber and other cash crops, the country’s half-dozen or so elephant families have become marooned in disconnected preserves. Zoologists say the inability to breed with other herds threatens the elephants’ genetic diversity, leaving them vulnerable to disease.
随着云南的森林迅速让位于橡胶及其他经济作物，中国有大约六个大象家族被困在几个分离的保护区。动物学家表示，大象无法与其他象群繁殖后代，这威胁到了大象的遗传多样性，使它们容易患病。
At the same time, the region’s growing human population has led to a surge in conflicts between man and beast, some fatal. Over the past four years, three people have been trampled to death and a dozen injured in Yunnan by marauding elephants, many of which have become accustomed to grazing on the sugar cane, rice and pineapples planted by local villagers.
与此同时，该地区人口不断增长，导致人象冲突剧增，有一些甚至致人死亡。在过去四年中，云南省有三人被四处觅食的大象踩死，十几人受伤。其中很多大象已经习惯了啃食当地村民种植的甘蔗、稻米和菠萝。
Such conflicts play out nightly in Shangzhongliang, an isolated village near the Laotian border, where residents, most of them members of the Dai ethnic minority, have been trying for months to chase away a family of 20 or so elephants from an adjacent nature preserve that ravages their crops after dark. One farmer, Xiong Dan, 30, said he and his wife wake up three to four times a night to toss firecrackers into the fields, a tactic he says has proved increasingly futile.
老挝边境附近的偏远村庄上中良村，几乎每天夜里都会上演这种冲突。那里的居民大部分是傣族，他们数月来一直在试着驱赶大约20头的象群，这群来自邻近自然保护区的大象在天黑之后会破坏村民的农作物。30岁的农民熊丹（音译）表示，他和妻子每天夜里会醒来三四次，向田里扔鞭炮。他说，事实证明这个策略越来越没用。
“These elephants are so smart they just sneak around to another area and keep eating,” he said, standing amid a decimated stand of banana trees. “Of course, it’s very nerve-racking work because if you get too close, they will come after you.”
“这些大象非常聪明，它们会偷偷潜入另一片区域，继续吃，”他站在遭到破坏的香蕉树林中说。“当然，这是件令人紧张的事，因为如果靠得太近的话，它们就会追赶你。”
The authorities have tried to ease the sting of elephant crop raids by compensating farmers for their losses. In 2012, the government dispensed nearly $480,000 through a private insurance company, according to the state-run Xinhua news agency, although residents complain that the reimbursements do not cover the market value of their lost crops.
官方试图通过补偿农民的损失，来缓解大象破坏农作物引发的愤怒情绪。据官方媒体新华社报道，2012年，政府通过一家私营保险公司发放将近48万美元（约合300万元人民币）的赔偿金，但居民们抱怨赔偿金低于被毁农作物的市场价值。
In densely populated areas where elephants are known to roam, forestry officials have been creating vast “elephant canteens” planted with corn, bamboo and other foraging favorites to dissuade them from pillaging farmers’ fields. International environmental groups are also trying to address the problem by buying or leasing cultivated land and restoring the forest in an effort to extend elephant habitat, and to create corridors one day connecting the region’s far-flung nature preserves.
在已知会有大象游荡的人口稠密地区，林业官员一直在建造大型的“大象食堂”，那里种植着玉米、竹子等大象喜欢的食物，劝诱它们不要破坏农民的作物。国际环保组织也在设法解决这一问题，它们购买或租赁耕地，退耕还林，扩大大象栖息地，期望能建立起走廊，有朝一日连接起该地区分散的自然保护区。
After years of telling villagers to protect their fields with trenches and electric fencing — barriers easily breached by wily elephants — other groups, like the International Fund for Animal Welfare, are teaching farmers how to coexist peacefully with their hungry four-ton neighbors. In recent years, the organization has provided microloans to 2,000 farmers in seven villages to help them switch from planting rice and bananas to tea, a profitable crop that elephants do not eat.
多年以来，国际爱护动物基金会(International Fund for Animal Welfare)等组织一直在告诉村民，通过掘沟、搭建电围网保护农田，但这些障碍很容易被狡猾的大象破坏。现在这些国际组织正在教农民，该如何与那些重达四吨的饥饿邻居和平共处。最近几年，该组织为七个村庄的2000名农民提供了小额贷款，帮助他们将种植作物从稻米和香蕉转换为茶树，大象不吃这种利润丰厚的作物。
Although harder to quantify, China’s elephants are also benefiting from a growing affection among middle-class Chinese, a love affair largely inspired by tourism officials who have embraced the elephant as an irresistible marketing mascot. In Jinghong, the capital of Xishuangbanna Prefecture (pronounced she-shwang-ban-na), a cavalcade of bronze and stone elephant statues — some ferocious looking, others positively giddy — have been mounted on traffic islands and in front of new Thai-style shopping malls.
虽然难以量化，但中国的大象也受益于中国中产阶级对它们日益增强的喜爱。这种喜爱很大程度上是由旅游官员激发的，他们把大象当做讨人喜爱的营销吉祥物。在西双版纳傣族自治州的首府景洪，一系列大象的石像和铜像——一些看起来非常凶猛，另一些则非常开心——被放置在交通岛上，以及新泰式购物中心的前面。
“Who doesn’t love the elephant?” said Xiong Qiaoyong, 30, a ranger at Wild Elephant Valley, a popular nature park on the outskirts of Jinghong that draws thousands of visitors a day. Although 16 to 24 elephants are said to live in the 900-acre preserve, most encounters between man and beast take place in a dusty circus ring, where visitors enjoy $5 elephant rides or watch a pack of world-weary performers stand on their hind legs and dutifully place hats and scarves on the heads of petrified audience members.
野象谷是景洪郊区的一座很受欢迎的自然公园，每天可以吸引数以千计的游客前来游览。野象谷30岁的护林员熊乔勇（音译）说，“谁不喜欢大象啊？”虽然据说有16至24头大象生活在这片占地900英亩（约合365公顷）的保护区，但大多数人象接触的情景发生在尘土飞扬的马戏场。游客支付5美元就可以骑大象，或者观看这些烦闷沉郁的表演者靠后腿站立起来，给目瞪口呆的观众戴上帽子和围巾。
But neither public fondness for elephants nor draconian antipoaching laws can compete with the financial lure of rubber, which is increasingly robbing Yunnan of its vaunted rain forests. Over the past decade or so, rubber plantations have come to occupy nearly a quarter of Xishuangbanna, home to more than 90 percent of China’s elephants, according to R. Edward Grumbine, a visiting scientist at the Kunming Institute of Botany, all of it to feed China’s booming tire industry. Rubber prices have more than quadrupled since 2002, making thousands of former subsistence farmers fabulously wealthy.
但公众对大象的喜爱和严格的反偷猎法，都比不过橡胶带来的经济利益的诱惑，橡胶树逐渐侵占云南引以为傲的热带雨林。据昆明植物研究所访问科学家R·爱德华·格兰比尼(R. Edward Grumbine)透露，在过去10年左右的时间，橡胶种植园已经占据了西双版纳将近四分之一的土地，以满足中国繁荣的轮胎产业的发展。中国有超过90%的大象栖息在西双版纳。自2002年以来，橡胶价格上涨了三倍多，让许多过去只能维持生计的农民，变得极其富有。
The downside of so much rubber is a monoculture that scientists describe as an ecological dead zone, where birds are seldom heard and elephants have nothing to eat. Mr. Chang, 46, the forestry official, said most of the forests outside government-protected nature preserves had been gobbled up by rubber farmers in recent years. “Growing up, you never saw elephants, but that’s because there was so much jungle back then,” he said. “Now they are squeezed into little disconnected islands, surrounded by highways and towns, so they are easier to find.”
大量生产橡胶带来了单种栽培的负面作用，科学家称这是生态意义上的死亡地带，很少听到鸟叫，大象没什么可吃的。今年46岁的常宗波表示，最近几年，政府自然保护区之外的大多数森林，都被种植橡胶的农民侵占了。“在成长过程中，没有见过大象。但那是因为当时有很多丛林，”他说。“如今，它们被挤到一些分离的小岛上，周围都是公路和城镇，所以才很容易发现它们。”
On paper, more than seven million acres in Yunnan has been designated as forest preserve, but Mr. Chang said local officials often looked the other way as farmers and developers nibbled away at parkland. “The destruction is a national tragedy,” he said. “We need the central government to put their foot down and help; otherwise the elephant is doomed.”
理论上，云南有超过700万英亩的区域都被指定为森林保护区。但常宗波表示，当农民和开发商一点点侵占公用场地时，地方官员常常会视而不见。“这种破坏是全国性的悲剧，”他说。“我们需要中央政府采取坚定立场，提供帮助，否则大象在劫难逃。”
The Asian elephant faces similar pressure from Bangladesh to Indonesia. The World Wildlife Fund estimates there are 40,000 to 50,000 left, a 50 percent drop since the beginning of the 20th century. More than two-thirds are in India and Sri Lanka.
从孟加拉国到印度尼西亚的亚洲象都面临类似的压力。据世界自然基金会(World Wildlife Fund)估计，目前还剩下4万至5万头亚洲象，与20世纪初相比减少了50%。逾三分之二的亚洲象分布在印度和斯里兰卡。