DONETSK, Ukraine — The prospect of a Russian intervention in eastern Ukraine appeared to rise sharply on Monday, threatening to take to new lows what is already the sharpest East-West confrontation of the post-Cold War era.
乌克兰顿涅茨克——周一，俄罗斯在乌克兰东部实行干预的可能性似乎急剧提高。这可能会让冷战以来东西方之间已然最为尖锐的对抗继续加剧。
As the Kremlin announced it had sent a convoy of humanitarian aid to Ukraine under the auspices of the International Red Cross, the secretary-general of NATO said there was a “high probability” of a Russian attack and Ukraine raised its estimate of Russian troop strength on the border.
随着克里姆林宫宣布，在国际红十字会的支持下，该国派遣了一支载有人道主义援助物资的车队前往乌克兰，北约秘书长称俄罗斯发动攻击的“可能性很高”，乌克兰也上调了对边境上俄军兵力的估计数字。
With increasing urgency, Western governments have condemned in advance any Russian aid missions, which they fear could serve as a pretext for a military incursion to support hard-pressed pro-Russian separatists fighting the Ukrainian Army in the country’s southeast.
在形势越来越紧迫的情况下，西方政府已经对俄罗斯进行的任何援助任务，提前做出了谴责。因为它们担心，这些援助任务可能会充当军事入侵的借口，以支持乌克兰东南部处境困窘的亲俄罗斯分裂分子。那些分裂分子正在与乌克兰陆军作战。
In a telephone conversation Monday with the president of the European Union, José Manuel Barroso, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said he was sending the convoy with aid to Ukraine, though it was unclear whether it had crossed the border.
在周一同欧盟委员会主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)进行的电话交流中，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)称自己正派遣一支载有援助物资的车队前往乌克兰，但尚不清楚车队是否已经过境。
A Kremlin statement about the phone call said Mr. Putin had “focused attention on the catastrophic consequences of the military operation” of the Ukrainian Army, and the need for urgent assistance for the civilian population.
克里姆林宫发布的有关这次通话的声明中称，普京“关注”乌克兰陆军的“军事行动造成的灾难性后果”，以及平民对紧急援助的需求。
“It was noted that the Russian side, in cooperation with representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross, is sending a humanitarian convoy to Ukraine,” the statement added.
“通话中提到，俄方正在与红十字国际委员会(International Committee of the Red Cross)的代表合作，派遣一支人道主义车队进入乌克兰，”声明补充说。
The European Commission issued a statement about the phone call saying Mr. Barroso had “warned against any unilateral military actions in Ukraine, under any pretext, including humanitarian,” but did not clarify whether he had been told the Russian convoy was en route.
欧盟委员会(European Commission)也就通话发表了一份声明，称巴罗佐“警告不要以包括人道主义在内的任何借口，在乌克兰进行任何单边军事活动”，但声明并未明确表示，巴罗佐是否知晓俄罗斯车队已经上路了。
NATO has said in the past that Russia had amassed about 20,000 troops along the border, enough to begin a ground invasion.
北约过去曾表示，俄罗斯沿边境集结了大约2万兵力，足以发动一场地面入侵。
But on Monday, a Ukrainian military spokesman, Andriy Lysenko, said the numbers had risen alarmingly, to around 45,000 troops, supported by 160 tanks, 1,360 armored vehicles, 390 artillery systems, 150 truck-mounted ground-to-ground rocket launchers, 192 fighter jets and 137 helicopters. Those figures could not be independently verified.
但周一，乌克兰军方发言人安德里·李森科(Andriy Lysenko)表示，俄方集结的兵力已增至4.5万人，令人担忧，此外还有160辆坦克、1360辆装甲车、390门火炮、150台车载地对地火箭弹发射装置、192架战斗机和137架直升机。这些数字无法独立核实。
Earlier Monday, the Kremlin said it would dispatch humanitarian aid across the border into Ukraine only with the consent of all parties concerned, including the Ukrainian government in Kiev.
周一早些时候，克里姆林宫表示，只有在包括基辅的乌克兰政府在内的相关各方一致同意的前提下，才会进入乌克兰，越境提供人道主义援助。
“Very intensive work is being carried out,” said Dmitri S. Peskov, Mr. Putin’s spokesman, according to Russian news agencies. Once the details were worked out, the aid would be delivered immediately because of the “tragic humanitarian situation” in Luhansk and Donetsk, he said.
俄罗斯的新闻机构称，普京的发言人德米特里·S·佩斯科夫(Dmitri S. Peskov)表示，“正在进行非常紧张的工作。”他说，鉴于卢甘斯克和顿涅茨克“悲惨的人道主义局面”，一旦落实了细节，将立即运送援助物资。
Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, told reporters on Monday that the details of a humanitarian operation were being discussed with Ukraine and will be carried out with the International Committee of the Red Cross.
俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)周一告诉记者，正在同乌克兰商讨有关人道主义行动的细节，并将与红十字国际委员会一同开展行动。