BEIJING — Three Nobel laureates in science and economics who visitedNorth Korea this week for what was billed as an educational exchange said Saturday that they had met university students who were eager to learn, but who were hampered by the North’s tight Internet controls and by rudimentary, decades-old equipment.
北京——科学与经济学领域的三位诺贝尔奖获得者上周赴朝鲜进行了访问。组织者称这是一次教育交流活动。三位学者周六表示，他们与朝鲜大学生见了面，他们求知心切，但受到了朝鲜严格控制互联网的羁绊，并且设备简陋，来自几十年前。
Two of the laureates, Aaron J. Ciechanover of Israel, a biologist, and Sir Richard Roberts, the chief scientific officer at New England Biolabs in Massachusetts, said at a news conference in Beijing that they had invited North Korean students to come and work in their laboratories. But that prospect appeared unlikely.
在北京召开的新闻发布会上，其中两名学者——来自以色列的生物学家阿龙·J·切哈诺沃(Aaron J. Ciechanover)和在美国马萨诸塞州的新英格兰生物实验室(New England Biolabs)担任首席科学官的理查德·罗伯茨爵士(Sir Richard Roberts)——表示，他们二人邀请了朝鲜学生前往自己的实验室做研究。不过，这种前景看似不大可能实现。
The weeklong visit by Mr. Ciechanover, Mr. Roberts and a third laureate, Finn Erling Kydland, a Norwegian who shared the Nobel for economics in 2004, was organized by the Vienna-based International Peace Foundation and by the National Peace Committee of Korea, an organ of North Korea’s ruling Workers’ Party. The trip, which ended Friday, was authorized by Kim Yong-nam, the president of North Korea’s Supreme People’s Assembly, and was intended as an exchange of educational views, the organizers said.
除了切哈诺沃和罗伯茨，前往朝鲜进行为期一周访问的还有与他人分享2004年诺贝尔经济学奖的挪威学者芬恩·埃尔林·基德兰德(Finn Erling Kydland)。此行的组织方为总部设在维也纳的国际和平基金会(International Peace Foundation)，以及朝鲜执政的劳动党旗下的朝鲜拥护和平全国民族委员会(National Peace Committee of Korea)。他们的行程于上周五结束。组织者表示，此行获得了朝鲜最高人民会议委员长金永南(Kim Yong-nam)的批准，旨在进行教育观念的交流。
On Friday, the Workers’ Party opened its first congress in 36 years in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, but the timing was coincidental, said Uwe Morawetz, the chairman of the International Peace Foundation. He said that the South Korean ambassador in Bangkok had asked that the trip be delayed until after the congress, which is a major propaganda event for North Korea’s top leader, Kim Jong-un, but that the organizers had declined to do so because the visit had been planned long in advance.
同样在上周五，劳动党在首都平壤揭开了36年来首次全国代表大会的序幕。不过，国际和平基金会主席尤韦·莫拉韦茨(Uwe Morawetz)表示，这纯属巧合。他说韩国驻泰国曼谷的大使曾提出将此行推迟到党代会之后进行，但由于行程早已规划好，组织方回绝了这一请求。此次党代会是朝鲜最高领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的一项重大宣传活动。
The Obama administration made no attempt to discourage the trip, Mr. Morawetz said.
莫拉韦茨称，奥巴马政府并未做出任何阻拦此行的举动。
The laureates gave lectures at the isolated country’s top universities, all in Pyongyang: Kim Il-sung University, Pyongyang University of Science and Technology, and Kim Chaek University of Technology. At the news conference on Saturday, the laureates described highly motivated students who were hindered in part by their government’s policies.
三位学者前往这个与世隔绝的国家里的三所顶尖学府进行了演讲。这些院校均位于平壤，分别为金日成综合大学(Kim Il-sung University)、平壤科学技术大学(Pyongyang University of Science and Technology)和金策工业综合大学(Kim Chaek University of Technology)。在周六的新闻发布会上，三人口中的朝鲜大学生很有上进心，但受到了一些限制，其中包括政府的政策。
“The best thing we found was that the students were knowledge-hungry,” said Mr. Ciechanover, a professor at Technion Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa, who shared the Nobel for chemistry in 2004. “The English was striking. In two of the three universities we did not need translation.”
“我们看到最积极的方面是，学生们求知若渴，”切哈诺沃说。他在2004年与人共同获得诺贝尔化学奖，目前在海法的以色列理工学院(Technion Israel Institute of Technology)任教。“他们的英语好得惊人。在三所大学里面，有两所我们都不需要翻译。”
But the North’s restrictions on the Internet made it virtually impossible for the students to progress, the scientists said. The level of research was “less than basic,” Mr. Ciechanover said.
然而，科学家们表示，朝鲜对互联网的限制使得学生几乎无法获得进步。切哈诺沃说，他们的研究水平“连基础都算不上”。
Student researchers had access to a so-called e-library through which they could ask supervisors for documents from the web, which would then be sent to them through the university’s internal Internet system, the scientists said.
三位科学家称，做研究的学生只能进入一个名为“电子图书馆”的系统，在那里请求导师提供网上的资料，而这些资料随后会通过学校的内部网络传送给他们。
One student’s work, on adapting a herbicide for spraying on crops, showed such promise that Mr. Ciechanover said he had invited him to his institute in Haifa. Similarly, Mr. Roberts, a British citizen who shared the Nobel for medicine in 1993, said he had invited a student to his laboratories in Massachusetts. The United States government might need some “prodding” to allow that student into America, he said.
一名学生进行的有关在农作物上喷洒一种除草剂的改进研究显示出极为光明的前景，令切哈诺沃开口邀请他去海法的学院。罗伯茨表示，他也邀请了一名学生去马萨诸塞州的实验室。罗伯茨是英国公民，与他人共享了1993年的诺贝尔生理学与医学奖。他说，美国政府恐怕需要点“刺激”才会允许这名学生入境。
The North Korean authorities, asked whether the students could come to Israel and the United States, said students would only be allowed to travel outside the country in pairs, Mr. Roberts said. That rule is meant to discourage defections.
罗伯茨表示，当他们问朝鲜当局这两名学生是否可以分别前往美国和以色列的时候，得到的回答是，学生到其他国家去的话必须要成对出行。这条规矩是为了阻止人员叛逃。
The laureates are unlikely to have met average North Koreans during their trip. University students, particularly at prestigious campuses in Pyongyang, are screened for loyalty to the government, and foreign visitors are typically accompanied by government minders.
访问期间，三位学者没有什么可能见到朝鲜的普通人。大学生要接受保证忠诚于政府的审查，尤其是平壤著名学府的学生。此外，外来的访问者往往有政府监督人员的陪同。
North Korea’s nuclear weapons program was not discussed during the visit, said Mr. Morawetz, who said he had deliberately chosen Nobel laureates for the visit who were not involved in physics or nuclear research.
莫拉韦茨称，朝鲜的核武器计划不在此行的讨论话题之列。他说自己有意选择了这几位与物理或核研究没有关系的诺贝尔奖得主去朝鲜。
But the laureates suggested Saturday that the United Nations sanctions imposed on the North because of its nuclear program should be eased. At the Okryu Children’s Hospital in Pyongyang, a showcase medical center that Kim Jong-un visited during its construction in 2013, Mr. Ciechanover said that there were 300 beds and a capacity for 300 outpatients, but that doctors administered only about 60 tests a day, a low figure that he attributed to the sanctions. Doctors faced shortages of medicine and took the view that “you give only what you have to,” he said.
然而，三位学者在周六表示，联合国因朝鲜核计划而对其实施的制裁应该松绑。平壤的玉流儿童医院(Okryu Children’s Hospital)是一家示范性医疗中心，曾在2013年尚在建设的时候接受金正恩的视察。切哈诺沃称，那里有300张病床，并能容纳300人门诊，但医生每天仅进行大约60次检查。他把这个低数据归咎于制裁。医生面临严重的药物短缺，抱有“非要用药不可的时候才用”的想法，他说。
The United Nations sanctions do not apply to medicine, but they restrict the North’s access to foreign currency, and the government is known to channel its limited resources toward the military.
联合国的制裁并不适用于药物，但它们限制了朝鲜获取外汇的能力，而众所周知的是，朝鲜政府会把有限的资源投入到军事领域。
The laureates suggested that the sanctions, which were tightened in March in response to North Korea’s fourth nuclear test in January, would not lead to regime change or to the North’s abandoning its nuclear weapons. “They say: ‘We are self-sufficient. We don’t need you.’ I got the impression they make them stronger,” Mr. Ciechanover said, referring to the sanctions.
为了回应朝鲜在今年1月进行的第四次核试验，制裁近一步收紧。这些学者认为，制裁并不会导致金氏政权颠覆或是朝鲜放弃核武。谈到制裁的时候，切哈诺沃称，“他们说：‘我们自给自足，不需要你们。’我感觉这些措施让他们更坚定了。”