LONDON —It was not a surprise that President Vladimir Putin of Russia came out in strong support of FIFA against the “blatant attempt” of the United States “to extend its jurisdiction to other states.” Institutionalized corruption is Putin’s thing. The governing body of world soccer has become a near-perfect illustration of how such a system works, almost as good as the once-pliant Ukraine of Putin’s ousted puppet, former President Viktor Yanukovych.
伦敦——不出预料，俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·普京(Vladimir Putin)站在国际足联(FIFA)一边，强烈反对美国“公然企图将其司法管辖权拓展到其他国家”。 普京在制度化腐败上极具发言权。FIFA这个足球运动的国际管理机构，几近完美地诠释了制度化腐败的运行方式，几乎可以和维克托·亚努科维奇(Viktor F. Yanukovych)总统治下的乌克兰比肩。已被赶下台的亚努科维奇曾是普京的傀儡，他当政那段时间，乌克兰对俄罗斯可谓俯首帖耳。
American power is Putin’s obsession. He professes to see its long arm everywhere, subverting Russia and countries of its former empire. So the Justice Department’s move against FIFA fit every Russian geostrategic theory. (In addition, of course, Putin is worried about the 2018 World Cup in Russia, as he should be. To say the event will carry echoes of the Berlin Olympics of 1936 would be an exaggeration, but not a wild one.)
美国的影响力一直困扰着普京。他声称，不论在任何地方都能看到美国指手画脚，意图颠覆俄罗斯以及曾经隶属于苏联帝国的国家。因此，美国司法部剑指FIFA之举，与俄罗斯的地缘政治理论完全契合（此外，普京当然也担心将于2018年在俄罗斯举行的世界杯。他理应如此。要说这届世界杯会是1936年柏林奥运会的再现可能有点夸大其辞，但也不算太离谱。）
It is not a surprise that various Russian generals and officials have been blustering about nukes, even threatening to wipe out poor little Denmark’s navy; nor that they have made clear that they will defend the annexation of Crimea (where the extension of Russian jurisdiction was on the “blatant” side) with every weapon in their arsenal. Force is the language Putin understands better than any other. He knows how uncomfortable much of Europe has become with this lexicon.
没什么好惊讶的是，俄罗斯的很多将领和官员开口闭口都是核武器，甚至威胁可怜的小国丹麦要灭掉它的海军；同样没有什么好惊讶的是，他们公开表示，不惜动用核武库里的每一件武器来捍卫被其收入囊中的克里米亚的领土（俄罗斯悍然把管辖权拓展到了那里）。普京比任何人都理解武力这门语言。他知道武力二字会让很多欧洲国家神经紧绷。
There are in fact no more surprises. Putin has turned on the West, seeing opposition to it as the glue of his regime, rather than integration with it as the path to Russian progress. He has opted for his life’s work: buying people, compromising them, threatening them.
事实上，没有任何事值得我们惊讶。普京已经将矛头对准西方，他把反对西方社会的立场视为维持其统治的粘合剂，而不是把融入西方社会视为俄罗斯走向进步的康庄大道。一如既往地，他把收买人、损害人、威胁人当成了毕生的事业。
Perhaps it was the street protests in Moscow of late 2011. Perhaps it was a perception of Western perfidy in Libya earlier that year. Perhaps it was some inkling about a moment of American weakness. Perhaps it really was the ouster through a popular uprising of the grossly corrupt Yanukovych in Ukraine. Perhaps it was simply his inner K.G.B. officer rising to the surface, a yearning for the empire lost. In the end the reasons are secondary to the reality, which is that Putin has opted to ignite Russian nationalism by cultivating the myth of Western encirclement of the largest nation on earth by far. The G-7 will convene in a few days without him. Of course it will. The Russian president is no longer interested in the rules of that club. Controlled antagonism to it suits him better.
其原因或许是2011年末莫斯科街头发生的抗议活动；或许是认为当年早些时候西方国家在利比亚问题上背信弃义；或许是隐约觉得美国有那么一刻露出了疲态；或许真实原因是乌克兰腐败至极的亚努科维奇政府在一场人民起义中被推翻了；或许只不过是他内心深处的那个克格勃(KGB)特工苏醒了过来，渴望重现苏联帝国逝去的荣光。说到底，上述原因都不及这样的现实重要：普京决定通过编造西方社会试图围剿当今世界第一大国的故事，在俄罗斯挑起民族主义的怒火。过几天，七国集团峰会将在普京缺席的情况下召开。普京当然会缺席。俄罗斯总统已经对那个“俱乐部”的规则失去了兴趣。现在，同它进行有限度的对抗更符合他的利益。
Some 15 months have gone by since the annexation of Crimea. A few things have become clear. On the whole, they are troubling. The first is how muted, really, the American reaction has been to Moscow’s seizure of a chunk of Ukrainian territory and Russia’s stirring-up of a little war in eastern Ukraine with its more than 6,000 dead. The United States is not even a party to the Minsk accords, the deeply flawed agreement to unwind the conflict that looks more like a means to freeze it in place.
克里米亚被吞并已经15个月了。有几件事现在变得很清晰。总体而言，这些事情令人感到不安。首先，莫斯科侵占乌克兰一大块领土，并在乌克兰东部挑起了一场小规模战争，导致6000多人丧生，美国却在一定程度上默不作声，真的是这样。美国甚至不是明斯克协定中的一方；该协定存在严重缺陷，本来旨在化解冲突，但看上去更像是维持冲突的现状。
Yes, there have been expressions of outrage from Washington. Yes, Secretary of State John Kerry was in Sochi last month for talks with Putin. But the bottom line is that Russian aggression has been met by a degree of American absence unthinkable even a decade ago. Follow-up talks to Minsk tend to find a Ukrainian official in a room with a Russian and two representatives of the breakaway areas of eastern Ukraine. One against three is not a credible formula for progress.
是的，华盛顿确实表达了一些愤怒之情。美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)上个月也确实在索契与普京进行了会谈。但重要的是，对于俄罗斯的侵略行径，美国的缺席程度即便在十年前也是不可想象的。在明斯克协定的后续会谈中，你往往会看到一名乌克兰官员，一个俄罗斯人，以及乌克兰东部分离地区的两名代表共处一室。一对三可不是什么通向进展的可靠途径。
In America’s place has stood Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Germany. She speaks to Putin regularly. She has been frank in her condemnation of his actions. Without Germany, the sanctions in place against Russia would not have been effectively coordinated. But a fundamental problem remains. Postwar Germany is in essence a pacifist power. Mention of force is near anathema to the vast majority of the German people. Arming Ukraine to level the playing field (and so bolster the chances of diplomacy) is of course rejected by Merkel; it should not have been. Force is precisely what Putin has used to secure what he wanted: a truncated and dysfunctional Ukraine diverted from its Westernizing ambitions. This has been Moscow’s core victory and the core failure of Berlin and Washington.
代替美国地位的是默克尔领导的德国。她经常与普京交谈，也一直在坦率地谴责他的行径。如果没有德国，对俄罗斯的制裁就不会获得有效的协调。但一个根本性的问题仍然存在。从本质上说，战后的德国是一个和平主义大国。对于绝大多数德国公众而言，提到武力就相当于是在进行诅咒。为乌克兰提供武装，让它能进行公平的较量（并提升外交解决冲突的机会）当然会遭到默克尔的拒绝；其实本不该这样。武力恰恰是普京采用的手段，来达成其心愿：让乌克兰领土缩水，无法正常治理，偏离其雄心勃勃的西化道路。这成了莫斯科最重大的胜利，也是柏林和华盛顿最重大的失败。
The battle for Ukraine is going to be long. There are no quick fixes at this point. The shows of NATO resolve and presence in the Baltic, where three NATO states feel vulnerable with cause, have been important; they should be reinforced. The bolstering and reform of NATO to face Putin’s new threats is critical. There can be no relaxation of sanctions against Russia until Ukraine controls its borders once again. Through parties of the left and right — Syriza in Greece, the National Front in France — Putin is probing to weaken the European Union and the West where he can. Wobbling is not the answer.
争夺乌克兰的战斗将会很漫长。目前没有速效的解决方法。在波罗的海展示北约的决心和存在感非常重要，那里的三个北约国家感到无助并非杞人忧天；它们应该获得支持。巩固和改革北约，以迎接普京新的威胁，这非常重要。在乌克兰能够再度控制本国的边界之前，不要放松对俄罗斯的制裁。普京正在通过左翼右翼政党——希腊的激进左翼联盟(Syriza)，法国的国民阵线(National Front)——试探着尽量削弱欧盟和西方。犹犹豫豫可不是应对之道。