MOSCOW — A gift horse or a Trojan horse?
莫斯科——是一匹作为礼物的马，还是一匹特洛伊木马？
That about summed up the latest, almost farcical encounter between Moscow and Kiev, as a mammoth convoy of some 260 trucks thundered across Russia on Tuesday bearing thousands of tons of humanitarian aid for the people of the besieged Ukrainian city of Luhansk.
随着一支由大约260辆卡车组成的庞大车队周二轰隆隆地在俄罗斯境内疾驰，上面那句话大致总结了莫斯科和基辅之间，近乎荒唐的最新一起对抗。那些卡车装有数千吨人道主义援助物资，准备供应给受到围困的乌克兰城市卢甘斯克的民众。
The Kremlin has insisted that it is interested only in relieving the suffering of civilians and has called for the supplies to be delivered speedily under the auspices of the International Committee of the Red Cross. But Ukraine, suspecting that the convoy is more a threat than a sincere offer of help — perhaps an attempt to infiltrate Russian forces into the country under the guise of a humanitarian mission — said on Tuesday that the trucks would be barred at the border.
克里姆林宫坚称自己只想缓解平民的痛苦，还呼吁在红十字国际委员会(International Committee of the Red Cross)的支持下迅速转交这些物资。但乌克兰怀疑，车队更多的是一种威胁，而非真诚地提供帮助——或许是企图以人道主义任务为幌子，让俄罗斯武装力量渗透进乌克兰。乌克兰周二表示，将在边境处拦截卡车。
The tumult seemed the latest in a series of international episodes involving President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia casting himself as a savior while the objects of his largess try to find a way to avoid taking it. Even the Red Cross did not seem that eager to become embroiled in the situation, with its spokesman slow to return telephone calls or saying simply that the technical details were incomplete.
俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)把自己塑造成了一个救世主，而他的赠送对象却在尝试想办法避免接受赠品。在一系列涉及普京的国际事件中，这次的混乱似乎是最新一起。就连红十字会似乎也没那么热切地想卷入当前局势，该组织发言人回电话动作迟缓，而且只是说技术性细节尚不完整。
“There is a lot of suspicion and a lot of mistrust,” said Konstantin von Eggert, a Moscow-based political analyst. “Under these circumstances, it is going to be treated like a wolf in sheep’s clothing.”
“存在许多怀疑和许多不信任，”莫斯科政治分析人士康斯坦丁·冯·埃格特(Konstantin von Eggert)说，“在这种情况下，车队会被当做披着羊皮的狼。”
But there is another side to the dispute, he said. If the fate of the convoy is left unresolved for long, it could provoke the armed confrontation between Russia and Ukraine that all sides have been trying to avoid since Moscow annexed Crimea in March.
但他说，争议也有另外一面。如果车队的命运长时间得不到解决，可能会引发俄罗斯与乌克兰的武装对抗。自俄罗斯今年3月吞并克里米亚以来，各方一直尝试避免出现这种情况。
Russia dispatched the convoy early Tuesday morning from just outside Moscow, saying it was working with the Red Cross to get emergency aid like generators, medicine and food and water to the residents of Luhansk, a separatist stronghold in eastern Ukraine that government forces have surrounded, cutting off water and electricity service. The convoy was expected to arrive at the border late Wednesday afternoon.
周二凌晨，俄罗斯从莫斯科郊外派出车队，称其正在与红十字会合作，为卢甘斯克的民众带去发电机、药品、食物和水等紧急救援物资。卢甘斯克位于乌克兰东部，是分裂分子的一个据点。乌克兰政府军包围了该市，切断了水电供应。车队预计将在周三傍晚抵达边境。
While not exactly sure what the Kremlin was up to, Kiev’s Western allies consulted worriedly among themselves before issuing various warnings that the convoy deserved cautious treatment.
尽管还不能确知克里姆林宫的意图是什么，但基辅的西方盟友在相互之间经过了一番忧心忡忡的商讨之后，发出了各种警告，称应当谨慎对待这个车队。
“We must be extremely careful because this could be a cover for the Russians to install themselves near Luhansk and Donetsk,” the French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, told France Info radio.
“我们必须非常小心，因为这可能是俄罗斯人在卢甘斯克和顿涅茨克附近扎营的掩护，”法国外长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)告诉广播电台法兰西新闻台(France Info)。
“I cannot judge from here what exactly is on the move from Moscow,” Steffen Seibert, the German government spokesman, said in Berlin. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President François Hollande of France had agreed by telephone that to be accepted as a genuine humanitarian mission, the convoy should have several countries participating and be supervised by the Red Cross or some similar neutral international body, Mr. Seibert said.
“我目前无法判断从莫斯科运出的东西是什么，”德国政府发言人斯特芬·塞贝特(Steffen Seibert)在柏林说。塞贝特表示，德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)在电话交谈中一致认为，要想被当成真正的人道主义任务进而得到接受，车队就必须有多个国家参加，且须接受红十字会，或某个类似的中立国际机构的监督。
Ukrainian social media lit up with more direct concerns. The drivers would toss aside their flip-flops and prove themselves to be special forces troops once across the border, one suggested, while others suspected that the trucks were really carting ammunition.
乌克兰的社交媒体上充斥着更为直接的担忧。一名网友称，一旦跨过边界，司机就会把脚上的人字拖抛到一边，亮出自己特种部队的身份，其他媒体则怀疑卡车上装的其实是弹药。
“The Ukrainians are suspicious that it is not just clothing and tents inside those trucks, and Russia does not want to provide proof that the things being brought in are not dangerous because they consider it demeaning,” Mr. Eggert said. “It might provide another reason for a major confrontation.”
“乌克兰怀疑车里装的不仅是衣服和帐篷，而俄罗斯又不愿意提供证据，说明他们带来的东西并不危险，因为他们认为这样做有损尊严，”埃格特说。“它可能会为一场大规模冲突提供另一个理由。”
Part of the problem is of Mr. Putin’s own making. In annexing Crimea, he established himself as the protector of Russian-speaking populations wherever they might be, and his nationalist supporters expect him to deliver. The aid convoy is a means to fulfill that pledge.
问题的一部分应该归咎于普京自己。在吞并克里米亚的过程中，他把自己塑造成了讲俄语的民众的保护者，不管这些人身在何处。他的民族主义支持者也希望他能言出必行。救援车队就是履行这个承诺的一个方法。
But for Ukrainians, Russia is a party to the armed conflict, covertly supplying men and weapons even if Moscow denies the charge. Should the Kremlin sincerely want to provide humanitarian relief, Kiev reasons, it should just reign in its proxies.
但是对于乌克兰而言，俄罗斯是这场武装冲突中的一方，在秘密提供人员和武器，尽管莫斯科对这些说法表示否认。基辅认为，如果克里姆林宫真的想提供人道主义救援，就应该约束它在这场冲突中的代理人。
In Geneva, a spokesman for the International Committee of the Red Cross said that Russian officials had provided a manifest of the supplies, but that the contents still have to be verified and discussions were continuing about the delivery.
在日内瓦，红十字国际委员会的发言人说，俄罗斯官员提供了一份这些物资的清单，但其内容仍有待核实，关于运送的讨论还在继续。
“It’s a work in progress at the moment; we are still clarifying the details,” said Ewan Watson, the spokesman. “There are pieces of the puzzle that remain missing.”
“目前这项工作正在继续，我们仍在确定相关细节，”发言人伊万·沃森(Ewan Watson)说。“有些环节仍不明确。”
For their part, Russian officials issued a series of wounded statements that the aid shipment was not being accepted at face value.
俄罗斯官员发表了一系列声明，表示自己受到了伤害，因为对方没有以信任的态度接受这些救援物资。
Sergey V. Lavrov, the foreign minister, told a news conference that Russia had accepted all of Kiev’s conditions and had spelled them out: the route, the choice of a border crossing near Kharkiv, the use of Ukrainian license plates once across the border, and that the trucks carry not only international monitors, but representatives of the Ukrainian government as well.
俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)在一次新闻发布会上说，俄罗斯接受了基辅的所有条件。拉夫罗夫还公开了这些条件：规定运输路线；选择哈尔科夫(Kharkiv)附近的一个过境点；过境后使用乌克兰号牌；而且车上不仅要安排国际观察员，还要安排乌克兰政府代表。
The convoy, which Russian news reports said stretched for nearly two miles, was carrying about 2,000 metric tons of supplies including 400 tons of cereals, 100 tons of sugar, 62 tons of baby food, 54 tons of medical supplies, 12,300 sleeping bags and 69 generators of various sizes, the Foreign Ministry said.
俄罗斯外交部称，救援车队装有大约2000吨的救援物资。其中包括400吨谷物、100吨糖、62吨婴儿食品、54吨医疗物资、12300个睡袋，以及大小各异的69台发电机。俄罗斯新闻报道称，车队绵延近两英里（约合3.2公里）。