GENEVA — After years of fruitless negotiations, Western and Iranian diplomats are on the verge of an agreement that would freeze Tehran’s nuclear program in exchange for an easing of some economic sanctions.
日内瓦——多年谈判无果之后，西方与伊朗外交官接近达成一项协议。协议将要求德黑兰冻结核计划，以此交换减轻针对该国的部分经济制裁。
Secretary of State John Kerry is scheduled to travel here on Friday at the invitation of Catherine Ashton, the European Union’s foreign policy chief, in an effort to “to help narrow differences,” a senior State Department official said. If that goes well, the pact could be announced later in the day, Iranian officials said.
美国国务院的一名高级官员称，应欧盟外交事务高级代表凯瑟琳·阿什顿(Catherine Ashton)的邀请，国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)定于本周五抵达日内瓦，以“协助缩小分歧”。伊朗官员则表示，如果进展顺利，或许将于当天晚些时候对外宣布达成协议。
But even as the two sides tried to finalize the agreement on Thursday, fissures have widened between the United States and some of its principal allies over the potential pact, which has been hailed by the Obama administration as a possible breakthrough in the yearslong standoff over Iran’s nuclear aspirations but dismissed by critics as a temporizing measure that would leave the core of Tehran’s atomic program intact.
不过，就在双方努力在周四敲定最后细节的同时，美国及其部分主要盟国在这份可能的协议上产生了进一步的分歧。奥巴马政府称，该协议是在就伊朗核问题对峙多年之后的潜在突破，批评者则认为，这不过是权宜之计，会让德黑兰核计划的核心得以完整地保留。
Mr. Kerry and senior American officials here have touted the idea of a multistage agreement as a hardheaded response to the new Iranian leadership of President Hassan Rouhani. The first phase of the accord would suspend Iran’s nuclear effort for as long as six months in return for limited sanctions relief, which could include access to frozen assets.
克里及在日内瓦的美国高级官员一直在推销多阶段协议的设想，为的是对伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)的新领导层作出现实的回应。协议的第一阶段将要求伊朗在整整六个月中停止核活动，以换取有限的制裁松动，其中或许会包括允许伊朗获取冻结的资产。
“We are asking them to step up and provide a complete freeze over where they are today,” Mr. Kerry said Thursday during a trip to the Middle East. “Iran knows that if they don’t meet the standards of the international community, the sanctions could be increased and even worse.”
周四，克里在中东之行期间表示，“我们要求他们向前一步，拿出完全冻结当前活动的诚意来。伊朗明白，假如他们不能满足国际社会的要求，制裁会更多、更严厉。”
Vigorously defending their approach, Obama administration officials cast the negotiations as a last, best chance to pull Iran back from the nuclear threshold, giving negotiators time to pursue a more sweeping accord.
奥巴马政府坚决捍卫其做法，将相关谈判描述成把伊朗从核武门槛上拉回来的最后及最好的机会，并给谈判留出时间，以争取达成更全面的协议。
Proponents say the deal has the potential not just to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon but to open the way to a historic warming of relations between the nations, though American officials say there is no indication so far that Iran is willing to alienate traditional allies like the Shiite militant group Hezbollah or President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.
支持者称，该协议拥有不少潜力，不仅可能阻止伊朗打造核武，还可能为美伊两国关系的历史性回暖开辟道路，尽管美国官方表示，截至目前，没有迹象表明，伊朗有意疏远什叶派激进团体真主党(Hezbollah)或叙利亚总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)等传统盟友。
Critics, however, are not waiting for an agreement to be announced before denouncing it as a failure of will. On Thursday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel warned of a “grievous historic error” that he said would enable Iran to keep enriching uranium and preserve the option of developing nuclear arms while undermining support in the international community for economic sanctions.
不过，没等协议公布，批评人士就谴责这是意志的失败。周四，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)警告，这是个“重大历史错误”。他还称，协议将使伊朗能够继续浓缩铀，并保住发展核武的选项，却会破坏国际社会对经济制裁的支持。
“If the news that I am receiving of the impending proposal by the P5-plus-1 is true, this is the deal of the century, for Iran,” Mr. Netanyahu told a visiting delegation of American lawmakers, using the phrase for the world powers involved in the talks, and taking a stance that echoes similar worries in Saudi Arabia.
“关于即将达成的5+1方案，如果我收到的消息是准确的，那么这将是世纪协议，不过是对伊朗而言，”内塔尼亚胡对前去访问的美国议员代表团说。他的立场与表达了类似担忧的沙特阿拉伯一致。“5+1”指的是参与谈判的几个世界大国。
Mr. Netanyahu and other critics, in effect, fear that what the administration paints as a “first step” toward a more sweeping agreement may actually turn out to be the last. They have urged that the West retain and even toughen sanctions, until Iran is prepared to completely abandon its uranium enrichment ability and dismantle its nuclear program.
实际上，内塔尼亚胡等批评者担忧的是，奥巴马政府所说的迈向更全面协议的“第一步”最后会变成唯一的一步。他们一直敦促西方保留甚至是加强制裁，直到伊朗准备好完全放弃铀浓缩的能力，并且废除核计划。
The outburst of controversy even before an agreement has been reached illustrates the tremendous difficulties the Obama administration faces in keeping a coalition together, especially one including Congress, throughout what promises to be a long and difficult diplomatic path to pursuing broader constraints on Iran’s nuclear operations.
协议尚未达成就爆发了争议，表明奥巴马政府面临着巨大困难，既要维系联盟来完成一项艰难的长期外交任务，又要寻求对伊朗核计划进行更广泛的限制，而这都还是在该联盟包括国会的情况下。
Far from cooling passions over Iran, each step in the process seems to inflame them.
在这个过程中，每走一步，不但远未冷却伊朗问题引发的争议，反而似乎激化了情绪。
Robert Einhorn, a former State Department official who supports the administration’s negotiating strategy, dismissed as “not achievable” the maximalist approach advocated by Mr. Netanyahu.
前国务院官员罗伯特·艾因霍恩(Robert Einhorn)支持奥巴马政府的谈判策略，并不看好内塔尼亚胡倡导的一步到位方式，称其“无法完成”。
“I don’t think any Iranian government could sell that deal at home,” Mr. Einhorn said during a conference call hosted by the Israel Project, a nonprofit organization that promotes Israel’s security. “I think we would pay a price in terms of the unraveling of sanctions if it looked like we, and not the Iranians, were the cause of the impasse.”
“我认为不论哪届伊朗政府提出这个协议，都不会在国内获得支持，”艾因霍恩在推动以色列安全的非营利组织以色列计划(Israel Project)举行的电话会议中表示。“我觉得如果看上去是我们而非伊朗人造成了僵局，我们将会付出制裁措施开始瓦解的代价。”
But Mark Dubowitz, the executive director of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, said an interim agreement would go over badly with the allies and in Congress.
但保卫民主基金会(Foundation for Defense of Democracies)总干事马克·杜博维茨(Mark Dubowtiz)则表示，临时协议可能很难获得同盟支持，也不会轻易在国会通过。
“Even if we get this de minimis interim deal from Iran, we could be in serious trouble,” he said. “The Israelis and Saudis are already freaking out about the dangers of any interim deal. This would demonstrate to them and Congress that the Obama administration has entered the Persian nuclear bazaar and gotten totally outnegotiated.”
“即使我们能和伊朗达成这项微不足道的临时协议，我们也会面临大麻烦，”杜博维茨说，“以色列人和沙特阿拉伯人已经对任何临时协议可能带来的危险惊恐万分。这会向他们和国会表明，奥巴马政府进入了波斯核集市，并在讨价还价中完全败下阵来。”
Much of debate will turn on the technical details of the agreement, which is still being formalized.
主要的争论将集中于协议的技术细节，该协议的内容还在敲定的过程中。
Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, has repeatedly made clear that Tehran will not give up its “right” to enrich uranium, a point he reaffirmed in an interview with CNN on Thursday night.
外交部长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)曾反复明确表示，德黑兰不会放弃浓缩铀的“权利”，周四晚间接受CNN采访时，他又重申了这一点。
So the rigor of the initial understanding will turn on an array of thorny questions. How many and what type of centrifuges would Iran be able to retain to enrich uranium? Would Iran be banned from making additional centrifuges even if it did not immediately use them?
因此，最初协议的成败将主要集中在一系列棘手问题上。伊朗能够留下多少及使用什么类型的离心机来进行浓缩铀活动？即使不会立刻投入使用，伊朗会被禁止制造更多离心机吗？
What would happen to the stockpile of uranium Iran has already enriched to 20 percent, which can be rapidly enriched to weapons grade? What sort of verification would be provided for?
对于伊朗已提炼的纯度达20%、很快可以浓缩至武器级的浓缩铀存货，会采取怎样的措施？会进行怎样的核实？
Would Tehran be willing to suspend construction of a heavy water plant that would produce plutonium? Such a step is important, experts say, because a military strike against the plant, should it come to that, could result in the dispersal of highly radioactive material if the plant was functioning.
德黑兰愿意暂停建设一个能够生产钚的重水工厂吗？专家称，迈出这一步十分重要，因为如果真到了不得不对工厂进行军事打击的地步，在工厂还在运转的情况下，就会导致高度放射性物质的扩散。
David Albright, the president of the Institute for Science and International Security, provided a graphic illustration of what some measures could do to slow the advance of the Iranian program, but also how much of a risk might remain even if a “first step” accord is reached.
科学和国际安全研究所(Institute for Science and International Security)所长戴维·奥尔布赖特(David Albright)拿出一个图表来说明可以采取哪些措施来减缓伊朗核计划的发展，以及即便达成一项“最初”协议，还将继续存在多少风险。
If an agreement did away with Iran’s inventory of uranium that was enriched to 20 percent, he said, it could add a month or somewhat longer to the time that Iran would need to produce enough weapons-grade uranium for a nuclear device, assuming Tehran opted to make a dash for a bomb.
如果根据这项协议，可以销毁伊朗的那些浓度达20%的浓缩铀，奥尔布赖特说，这将延长伊朗制造一个核设备所需的武器级浓缩铀的时间——假设德黑兰选择快速制造一个核弹的话，延长的时间可能是一个月，也可能更长一些。
The total “breakout time” to produce the needed weapons-grade uranium, he said, would be increased to about three months.
伊朗制造所需武器级浓缩铀的“突破时间”将被增加到大约三个月。
“I think it’s not a huge increase in the breakout timeline,” he told the conference call organized by the Israel Project. “But I think it is an important one to try to get.”
“在进行突破的时间线上，这不算增加了很长时间，”他在以色列计划组织的电话会议上表示，“但我觉得争取到这段时间还是很重要的。”