Earlier this year, Getty Images asked the photographer John Moore if he wanted to see how open Iran’s new president was to Western news media. Mr. Moore, a senior staff photographer for Getty, was game. He had been there once — 10 years ago — to cover parliamentary elections. This time, Getty encouraged him to follow his own interests and itinerary. He decided on a road trip.
今年早些时候，Getty Images问摄影师约翰·穆尔(John Moore)想不想看看伊朗新任总统对西方新闻媒体有多开放。作为Getty的高级全职摄影师，穆尔欣然接受了挑战。在那之前——10年前——他去过那里一次，是为了采访议会选举。这一次，Getty鼓励他根据自己的兴趣和行程安排行动。他决定进行一次公路旅行。
Mr. Moore, who is based in New York, has won numerous awards, including the Robert Capa award from the Overseas Press Club in 2007. Now on the road in Iran, here’s his report.
在纽约工作的穆尔获奖无数，其中包括海外记者俱乐部(Overseas Press Club)2007年颁发的罗伯特·卡帕(Robert Capa)奖。他现在正在伊朗的公路上，以下是他的报道。
I couldn’t imagine a better place for a road trip than through central Iran. I had been to this country only once before, and then just to Tehran to cover a parliamentary election. I had wanted to return, but was kept busy the last decade with Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere before journalist visas to Americans were suspended for four years by then-President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
我想不到有哪个地方比穿越伊朗中部更适合公路旅行。我之前只来过这个国家一次，只是去德黑兰报道议会选举。我曾经想再来这里，但过去10年一直忙于伊拉克、阿富汗和其他地方的事情，后来，时任总统马哈茂德·艾哈迈迪内贾德(Mahmoud Ahmadinejad)又暂停向美国人发放记者签证，这一停就是四年。
With the new Iranian president Hassan Rouhani’s pro-Western attitude, a window opened. In fact, the Iranian Mission to the United Nations said my visa would take only two weeks. I thought that sounded too good to be true.
由于伊朗新任总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)的亲西方态度，机会来了。实际上，伊朗驻联合国代表团说我的签证只需要两周就可以下来。我觉得这好得太离谱，无法相信。
It was.
果然。
Three months later, I had given up waiting. Of course, that’s right when I got an email saying that my visa had been approved, but just for one week. I finished up an assignment in eastern Ukraine, went back to New York City to drop off my body armor and withdraw a large wad of cash (American credit cards don’t work in Iran) and flew over.
三个月后，我已经死心了。当然了，就是在这时候，我接到了一封电子邮件，说我的签证已经被获批，不过有效期只有一周。我结束了在乌克兰东部的任务，返回纽约市丢下我的防弹衣，提取了一大叠现金（美国信用卡在伊朗不能用），就飞了过去。
For this trip, I wanted to examine daily life outside of Tehran, where I had concentrated only on politics a decade before. Through an agency that facilitates press trips, I scheduled a weeklong road trip passing through some of the most incredible and historic scenery anywhere. I met up in Shiraz with Amir, a translator with a penchant for American idioms, and Mahmoud, a driver who has worked with the international media for 25 years — and who bears a remarkable resemblance to Robert De Niro.
这一次行程，我想要审视德黑兰之外的伊朗人的日常生活，10年前，我在德黑兰只把注意力集中在了政治上。通过一家给新闻采访行程提供便利的代理机构，我规划了一周长的公路之旅，期间会途径一些最惊人、最古老的风景。在设拉子(Shiraz)，我偶然遇到了阿米尔(Amir)和穆罕默德(Mahmoud)，前者是一名嗜好美国习语的翻译，后者是一名已经为国际媒体工作了25年的司机——长相酷似罗伯特·德尼罗(Robert De Niro)。
We started in Shiraz, famous for its Persian culture, poetry and progressive attitudes. Straight off, I was reminded just how nice people here are to visitors. It seems nonintuitive, but, after getting past the initial shock, people on the street are generally delighted to meet Americans. And more important, they enjoy being photographed — which is not the case in most of the Middle East.
我们的旅程始自设拉子，这座城市因波斯文化、诗歌和进步的态度而得名。我立刻就感觉到了当地人对游客有多友好。这似乎有违我们的直觉，然而，街上的人在经过最初的吃惊后，普遍都对见到美国人感到高兴。更重要的是，他们很乐于被拍照——大多数中东国家的情况与此正相反。
After a day, we hit the road through the arid mountains toward the northeast and the ancient desert town of Yazd, famous for massive rooftop wind towers, which catch the slightest breeze and funnel it down into homes as a natural air-conditioning system. I realized, sadly, that most attempts at outdoor photography during the hot season are basically fruitless between the hours of 9 a.m. and almost 6 p.m. People simply stay indoors to escape the heat, and the light is brutal. Instead, I concentrated on indoor scenes and then manically worked outside in the evening.Next, we made the long drive northwest to Iran’s historic former capital of Isfahan, where the incredible central square is the largest in the world after Tiananmen in Beijing. Its reflective pools, mosques and families enjoying the sunset were a pleasure to photograph. Here, more than anywhere on the trip, I tried to show the joy of life many maintain, despite the tough economic conditions because of international sanctions. Inflation remains sky-high, and the sanctions have only been partly and temporarily eased during nuclear enrichment negotiations between Iran and the West.
一天后，我们上路了，穿过干旱的山区，往东北方向开，抵达了沙漠古城亚兹德。这里以硕大的屋顶风塔闻名于世。风塔能捕捉到最为轻微的空气波动，并向下传导到屋内，成为天然的空调系统。我意识到，令人遗憾的是，在炎热季节的上午9点到下午近6点之间，进行室外拍摄的多数尝试基本都会无果而终。人们只会待在室内避暑，而且光照实在太强烈。于是，我把重点放到室内场景上，然后在傍晚时分出门疯狂工作。接下来，我们往西北方向长途驾驶，到达伊朗的历史古都伊斯法罕。这里的中心广场令人赞叹，面积仅次于北京的天安门广场位列世界第二。清澈如镜的水池、清真寺和欣赏日落的家庭，拍起来令人愉快。在这里，比起此行中的任何其他地方，我更为努力地展示许多民众保有的生命的喜悦，尽管由于国际制裁，经济状况颇为艰难。通胀居高不下，而且制裁仅在伊朗与西方就核浓缩问题进行谈判期间得到暂时的部分放松。
Still, there is a massive new shopping mall partly under construction on the town’s outskirts. From a distance, I photographed a couple having a discussion that turned into an argument. When Amir whispered to me the translation that the man had yelled at her, “Why didn’t you call the police,” we decided to quietly take our leave.
不过，在城郊地区，有一座宏大的新购物中心正在部分施工。从远处，我拍到一对男女说着说着变成了争吵。阿米尔轻声给我翻译，男人冲着女人喊，“你怎么不叫警察？”于是我们决定悄悄离开。
We then drove to Qom, the bastion of conservative Islam in Iran and the former home of Ayatollah Khomeini. Although I wasn’t permitted to enter the holy shrine, I was able to visit Khomeini’s house, which was spartan. Pilgrims to the home prayed in the living room. The cleric in charge offered us each a coconut cookie.I’m now headed to Tehran to cover a big public event commemorating the 25th anniversary of Khomeini’s death. Today on the highway I saw buses bringing in people from all over the country for the event, so it should be quite a spectacle at the Khomeini shrine. Tens of thousands of people are expected to cram around the site in remembrance and mourning of the architect of Iran’s Islamic Revolution and whose portraits are ever-present in every village, town and city.
然后，我们驱车抵达库姆。这里是伊朗伊斯兰教保守派的大本营，也是阿亚图拉霍梅尼(Ayatollah Khomeini)生前的家乡。尽管我并未获准进入圣祠，但我得以参观简朴的霍梅尼故居。前来朝拜的教徒在起居室里做祷告。阿訇给我们每人一块椰蓉饼干。目前，我正在去德黑兰的路上，准备拍摄为纪念霍梅尼逝世25周年举办的大型公众集会。今天在公路上，我看到大小巴士搭载着全国各地的民众前往参加活动，因此霍梅尼圣祠的景象应当是蔚为壮观。预计将有数以万计的人们涌到这里，缅怀这位伊朗伊斯兰革命的设计师。在伊朗的每座村庄、小镇和城市里，他的图像随处可见。
Despite the problems of this place and its government’s troubled relationship with the West, interacting with the people here is a singular pleasure, leaving me wanting more than just a week of scenic road. I hope the window doesn’t close.
虽说这片土地问题重重、政府与西方交恶，但与这里的民众交流却极为愉快，让我希冀自己的行程不限于这一周风景优美的公路之旅。我希望，这扇窗口不会关闭。