Walk through the streets of Kabul and evidence of the West’s decade-long war literally clings to the Afghan youth: the American labels emblazoned on their shirts and jeans, the stylish sunglasses they wear, the cellphones they clutch to update their lives on Twitter and Facebook.
走在喀布尔的街道上，到处可见这场西方国家发动的、长达十年的战争留下的痕迹，它们与阿富汗青年一代形影不离：他们穿的是印有美国商标的衬衫和牛仔裤，戴的是新潮太阳镜，手里握的是可以在Twitter和Facebook上更新生活点滴的手机。
To those who like to think that the foreign presence here has left more than spent shells and hollowed-out buildings, what the young people of Kabul wear and value can itself offer a sense of comfort. These trappings of the West, the hope goes, belong to a generation ready to embrace women’s rights, democracy and other ideals that America and its allies have spent billions of dollars trying to instill.
有的人愿意认为，外国人在此留下的不只是弹壳和一座座空空如也的建筑。喀布尔青年群体穿戴在身而珍重在心的事物，恰给了持此观点者某种慰藉。依着他们的希望，这些西方生活的标志物，属于一代新人，他们准备好了敞开胸怀接纳女性权利、民主制度以及更多此类理念，这些正是美国及其盟国消耗了数以十亿计美元所想树立的。
But interviews with dozens of Afghan youth paint a picture of a new generation bound to their society’s conservative ways, especially when it comes to women’s rights, one of the West’s single most important efforts here. Attempts to alter women’s roles in society remain controversial among the younger generation, perhaps the starkest example of the West’s limited influence as coalition forces prepare to withdraw next year.
然而，与多名阿富汗青年的访谈却描绘了另一幅图景。新一代人仍然受制于他们所在社会的保守生活方式，特别是在女性权利这件事上，而这恰是西方国家付出了最大努力试图改变的。青年人群对改变女性社会地位的努力一直存在争议。如今正值盟军筹划撤兵前的最后一年，这恐怕是西方国家影响何等有限的明证。
“If someone thinks that youngsters have changed, they should think twice,” said Amina Mustaqim Jawid, the director of the Afghan Women’s Coalition Against Corruption. “These young men grew up in a war environment. They don’t know about their own rights; how can we expect them to know about their sisters’ rights, their mothers’ rights or their wives’ rights? If they wear jeans and have Western haircuts, that doesn’t mean they are progressive.”
“谁要是觉得年轻人真的发生了改变，那他们可得三思。”阿富汗妇女反腐联合会(Afghan Women's Coalition Against Corruption)主席阿明娜·穆斯塔钦·贾维德(Amina Mustaqim Jawid)说。“这些青年成长在战争环境里。他们连自己有什么的权利都不清楚，我们怎能期待他们认识到其姐妹、母亲和妻子的权利呢？就算他们穿上了牛仔裤，留起了西式发型，也不能表明他们的思想进步了。”
Even in Kabul, one of the most liberal cities in Afghanistan, many young men and women express beliefs that fly in the face of the messages coming from American Embassy outreach efforts. Censorship, particularly when it comes to religious offenses, summons little ire. Many consider democracy a tool of the West. And the vast majority of Afghans still rely on tribal justice, viewing the courts as little more than venues of extortion.
就连在堪称阿富汗最自由开放城市之一的喀布尔，很多青年男女所表达的信念，都和美国大使馆社会交流活动所释放的信号针锋相对。言论审查，尤其是对宗教忤逆者的禁言，几乎无法引发义愤。不少人认为民主制度不过是西方的工具。同时，大多数阿富汗人仍然仰赖部族私法，而视法庭为勒索之地。
On a recent afternoon, young women gathered on the third floor of a wedding hall, enduring the stifling heat in black niqabs to protest a recently proposed law aimed at protecting the rights of Afghan women. The men remained outside, forming a barricade along the busy street to prevent strangers from entering the hall.
近日一个下午，一群女青年聚集在一座结婚礼堂的三楼，蒙着黑色面纱，冒着酷暑来对一条拟保护阿富汗妇女权利的立法提案表达抗议。男人们都守在外面，沿着繁忙的街道排成一道人墙，以防陌生人进入礼堂。
One poster read, “I am a Self-Aware Woman, I Will Not Be Deceived by the Empty Slogans of the West.”
他们的一则标语写道：“我是自知的女子，不上西方空洞口号的当。”
“This law is not only against Islamic values; it is also against all other ethical values,” one protester, Saida Hafiz, said to a crowd of about 200 young women and children assembled in the room. “If we remain silent today, soon our society will be morally corrupted like that of the West.”
“这条法律违背的不光是伊斯兰价值观，它还和别的所有民族价值相左。”抗议者之一赛义达·哈菲兹(Saida Hafiz)对室内集会的约200名女青年和女童说。“倘若我辈今日对此默许，我们的社会很快就将如西方一样道德沦丧。”
Such impressions can be heard throughout the city: in the shared street taxis that cart Kabulis across town, in the bustling cafes of the city’s sparkling Shar-e Naw neighborhood, even on the campuses of the nation’s most prestigious universities.
此等印象在城中随处可闻：载着喀布尔人穿过城市的拼用的出租车，欣欣向荣的新城里熙攘的咖啡馆，甚至是全国最负盛名的大学校园皆不能免俗。
Group taxi rides, which serve as Kabul’s de facto bus system, offer an unfiltered view of the local perspective. On board, men of all ages speak openly about everything from politics to traffic — often in the presence of women.
乘客“拼车”雇用的出租车在喀布尔实际发挥了公交系统的作用，这里可以畅通无阻地体察当地居民的观点。无论事关时政还是交通，车上各年龄段的男子们对各种话题都畅所欲言——往往当着女性的面。
On a recent evening, a crowd idled downtown along Enhesarat Street, waiting for cars and minivans amid a cacophony of horns and engines. A few men piled into a dusty minivan headed for Taimani 2, an area in West Kabul. As the minivan lurched along the pockmarked roads, they chatted about a recent shoe-throwing fight between two female parliamentarians.
这些天的一个晚上，一群人顺着闹市区的恩赫萨拉特街闲逛着，在一片喇叭和引擎的嘈杂声中等候着轿车和面包车。有几名男子挤上了一辆灰头土脸的面包车，前往西喀布尔的泰玛尼二区。车子开在坑坑洼洼的路上，他们聊起了两名女议员间的一场掷鞋事件。
“Who let these women into Parliament?” said an old man with red hair and blue eyes, his knees pressed against his chest. “Women were meant to stay at home.”
“是谁让这些女人进国会的？”一位赤发蓝眼，弓着腿蹲坐的老者说，“女人就该在家里待着。”
A young man seated beside him, holding books on his lap and dressed in a blue T-shirt and gray pants, nodded in agreement.
坐在老人身边的一位男青年点头表示赞同。他身穿蓝色T恤和灰裤子，膝盖上放着书本。
On another trip, from the neighborhood of Kolola Pushta back downtown, a similar scene unfolded. A young student from the Afghan-Korea Vocational Institute, dressed in a blazer and slacks, brought up a recent Western public art project, where young men and women doled out pink balloons to passers-by.
从科洛拉普什塔返回市区的另一趟行程里，相似的一幕也在上演。一名来自阿富汗-韩国职业学院(Afghan-Korean Vocational Institute)，穿着运动外套和休闲裤的年轻学生，提到了最近一场西方公众艺术活动，当时一些男女青年拿着粉色气球发放给过路的行人。
“Did you see what those girls were wearing?” he asked another passenger, citing the women’s short sleeves and fitted pants. “If my sister dressed like that, I would kill her.”
“你看到那些女孩都穿了什么吗？”他问另一位乘客，向他讲起那些女士们穿的短袖衫和修身裤子。“我妹妹要那么穿的话，我非宰了她不可。”
In reality, a lot of what is thought to be Shariah law in Afghanistan is actually tribal tradition. Some of the most severe cultural practices, like the selling of young girls to pay off debt, are elements of Pashtun code that would be unacceptable in most other Islamic countries.
事情真相是，在阿富汗被当作伊斯兰教法(Sharia law)的很多规矩，其实都是部族传统。像贩卖年幼女孩抵债这类最为残酷的文化行为，是普什图人行事准则中那种让大多数其他伊斯兰国家都无法接受的元素。
“That’s a huge problem,” said Din Mohammad Gran, the dean of Kabul University’s Shariah law school, who does not support the women’s rights bill. “Some people have a misinterpretation of Islam that they learned from the wrong sources.”
“这个问题很严重，”喀布尔大学(Kabul University)伊斯兰教法学院院长丁·穆罕默德·格兰(Din Mohammad Gran)说道。他本人并不支持妇女权利法案。“有些人从错误的地方接受了对伊斯兰教的错误认识。”
While conservative voices are easy enough to find in and around the capital, Kabul is not without its progressive pockets. Groups like Afghanistan 1400, a collection of young Afghan leaders committed to social and political change, are often cited as the vanguard of civic activism.
在首都喀布尔，尽管俯拾皆是保守派的话语表达，进步派团体也绝非无处可寻。像“阿富汗1400”(Afghanistan 1400)这样由致力于社会和政治变革的青年领袖所组成的团体，就经常被称为公民运动的先锋。
Corporate workplaces have also become surprising petri dishes for quiet activism. At Tolonews, one of the country’s largest television news organizations, men find themselves working for women as economic realities scuttle normal social dynamics.
令人惊讶的是，公司职场竟也悄悄地成了社会运动的培养皿。在规模位居全国电视新闻机构前列的Tolonews，随着经济现实打破惯常的社会机制，男子汉们发现他们得为女上司打工了。
This, in part, reflects what some observers say is the chasm between the public and private behavior of many Afghans, who are not as conservative as they seem.
这些变化在部分程度上反映了一些评论家指出的现象，即众多阿富汗人在公开和私下场合所作所为之间的割裂。他们并不像表现的那样保守。
“Our traditions and conventions are telling us one thing, and the realities on the ground are telling us something else,” said Saad Mohseni, the founder of Tolonews. “People are actually acting in a very different way from how they are talking.”
“我们的传统和习惯教给我们的是一回事，而周遭现实告诉我们的却是另一回事，”Tolonews创办人萨阿德·穆赫辛尼(Saad Mohseni)说。“人们实际做的，和他们言谈中所表达的，有很大区别。”
Some young Afghan women have taken the issue head-on, opting to speak out publicly for their rights. While they know their struggle lies along the outer edge of the accepted social protests for women, activists like Noor Jahan Akbar have adopted the long view.
一些阿富汗女青年选择迎难而上，公开发表言论为自己争取权利。尽管她们心知肚明，此类的斗争相对于传统社会所能接受的女性抗议活动而言已是越了界，诺尔·贾汉·阿克巴尔(Noor Jahan Akbar)这样的社会活动者仍然主动选择将眼光放得更加长远一些。
“After 30 years of war, what do you expect?” asked Ms. Akbar, a young blogger who helped organize a recent demonstration supporting the bill. “A mind-set built over 100 years takes longer than 10 years to change.”
“经过了30年战争，你又能作何期望呢？” 阿克巴尔问道。她是一名年轻的博客主笔，近期参与了发起示威游行支持妇女权利法案的工作。“百年来铸就的旧思想体系，想要改变，岂是十年之功可为。”