MOSCOW — Like many chief executives of American companies, Rex W. Tillerson of Exxon Mobil didn’t attend the major business forum in Russia last month, at the urging of White House officials. But the company’s exploration chief, Neil W. Duffin, did.
莫斯科——和许多美国公司的首席执行官一样，埃克森美孚(Exxon Mobil)的雷克斯·W·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)应白宫官方的呼吁，没有出席上月在俄罗斯举行的一次高级别的商业论坛。但是，公司的勘探主管尼尔·W·达芬(Neil W. Duffin)去了。
In a ceremony at the event, Mr. Duffin signed an agreement with Igor I. Sechin, the head of the state-owned Rosneft, to expand its joint ventures to drill offshore in the Arctic Ocean, to explore for shale oil in Siberia and to cooperate on a liquefied natural gas plant in Vladivostok.
在论坛的一个仪式上，达芬和国有油企俄罗斯石油公司（Rosneft，简称俄油）总裁伊格尔·I·谢钦(Igor I. Sechin)签署了一项协议，准备扩大双方的合资项目，共同进行北冰洋近海开采、西伯利亚页岩油勘探，并在海参崴合作经营一座液化天然气工厂。
The deal came just weeks after the United States government imposed sanctions on the personal dealings — though not the corporate activities — of Mr. Sechin, a former military intelligence agent and longtime aide to President Vladimir V. Putin.
就在该协议签署几周前，美国政府刚刚宣布对谢钦的个人交易实施制裁——但不限企业活动。谢钦是一名前军事情报人员，是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)多年的助手。
Despite the push by Western governments to isolate Moscow for its aggression in Ukraine, energy giants are deepening their relationships with companies here by striking deals and plowing more money into the country.
虽然西方政府纷纷采取措施对莫斯科进行孤立，以惩罚它对乌克兰的侵略，但能源巨头们却在和这里的企业签署协议，往这个国家注入更多的资金，以进一步加深双方的合作。
Along with Exxon, BP of Britain and Total of France also signed contracts at the business forum in St. Petersburg to explore for shale oil in Russia. Exxon plans to drill its first exploratory well offshore in the Russian sector of the Arctic Ocean this summer. Statoil of Norway is in talks for another shale joint venture. Royal Dutch Shell’s chief executive, Ben van Beurden, met with Mr. Putin in April and told him, “Now is the time to expand,” referring to a liquefied natural gas plant project.
除了埃克森公司，英国的BP和法国的道达尔(Total)也在圣彼得堡的这场商业论坛上签署了协议，以勘探俄罗斯的页岩油。埃克森计划今年夏天在北冰洋的俄罗斯管辖区域开钻第一处试探性的近海油井。还有一个和挪威国家石油公司(Statoil)的页岩油合资项目也正在洽谈之中。荷兰皇家壳牌公司(Royal Dutch Shell)的首席执行官本·范伯登(Ben van Beurden)在4月面见普京时谈到了一个液化天然气工厂项目，表示，“现在是时候扩大规模了。”
The companies are taking a calculated risk, given the threat of further sanctions. But they also want to protect their long-term interests in Russia, the world’s largest energy-exporting nation.
考虑到进一步制裁的可能性，各大企业知道这些举动是有风险的。但是它们又需要保护在俄罗斯的长期利益，因为这个国家是世界头号能源出口国。
“They are likely to continue to engage until there is a clear policy signal that they should stop. It is not rational to think they would act in any other way,” said David L. Goldwyn, who served as the State Department’s special envoy and coordinator for international energy affairs during President Obama’s first term. “If the government wants them to stop, it needs to say louder they should stop.”
“它们应该会一直这样进行下去，直到出现明确的政策信号告诉它们停手。不要指望它们采取别的行事方式，那是一厢情愿，”曾在奥巴马总统第一任期内任国务院国际能源事务特使兼协调员的戴维·L·戈尔德温(David L. Goldwyn)说。“如果政府想要它们停下来，就得更大声地跟它们说。”
While the companies are not violating the current rules, they are walking a fine geopolitical line.
这些企业没有违反当前的规则，不过仍然是在走一条地缘政治的钢丝。
At the St. Petersburg gathering on May 24, the British oil giant BP signed a $300 million preliminary agreement with Rosneft to study shale oil deposits in the Volga Valley and Ural Mountains, west of the area where Exxon Mobil will be working. BP’s chief executive, Robert W. Dudley, an American citizen, attended the forum. But David Campbell, BP’s Russia chief and a British citizen, signed the agreement with Mr. Sechin.
在5月24日的圣彼得堡会议上，英国石油巨头BP和俄油签署了一份3亿美元（约合18.7亿元人民币）的初步协议，对伏尔加河谷和乌拉尔山脉的页岩油藏进行研究。该区域位于埃克森美孚的作业区以西。BP的美国籍首席执行官罗伯特·W·杜德利(Robert W. Dudley)也出席了论坛。但是，与谢钦签协议的是BP在俄罗斯的英国籍负责人戴维·坎贝尔(David Campbell)。
Also at the business forum, Total signed a deal with Lukoil, another Russian oil company, for exploring more than 1,000 square miles of western Siberian wilderness for shale oil. “My message to Russia is simple — it is business as usual,” Total’s chief executive, Christophe de Margerie, told journalists there.
同样在这个经济论坛上，道达尔公司还和另一家俄罗斯油企卢克石油(Lukoil)签署了协议，以在西西伯利亚一片超过1000平方英里（约合2600平方公里）的荒野上勘探页岩油。“我给俄罗斯的表态很简单——生意照做，”道达尔的首席执行官马哲睿(Christophe de Margerie)对当地记者说。
To keep it that way, oil companies are publicly and privately pushing back against more sanctions by speaking out at shareholders’ meetings and by lobbying in Washington.
为了能维持这种局面，石油企业在通过公开和私下的方式抵制增加制裁，其中包括在股东会议上表明意见，还有在华盛顿的游说活动。
“We have a responsibility to stand with our partners in a difficult time,” Mr. Dudley of BP told an audience at the St. Petersburg forum.
“在这个困难的时刻，我们有责任跟我们的合作伙伴站在一起，”BP的杜德利在圣彼得堡论坛上对观众说。
Mr. Tillerson, Exxon’s chief executive, told reporters last week in Dallas that the company was making its skepticism about sanctions clear to the United States government. “Our views are being heard at the highest levels,” he said.
埃克森首席执行官蒂勒森上周在达拉斯对记者说，公司正向美国政府表达对制裁的怀疑态度。“我们看法已经传递到最上层，”他说。
“There has been no impact on any of our business activities in Russia to this point, nor has there been any discernible impact on the relationship” with Rosneft, he added.
“到目前为止，我们在俄罗斯的商业活动还没有经受任何影响，”在和俄油的“关系上也没有出现明显的松动，”他进一步说。
And Exxon is joining with Rosneft to explore the Bazhenov shale formation in western Siberia, an area that has already produced tens of billions of barrels of oil through conventional drilling methods — a good sign for shale drillers, according to geologists. “Compared to other opportunities worldwide, Russia is certainly one of the most promising,” said John Webb, an analyst at the market research firm IHS who specializes in Russian energy.
埃克森正在和俄油一起勘探西西伯利亚的页岩层。这个地区已经通过传统的钻探方法产出了数百亿桶石油——据地质学家称，这对页岩油开采是个好兆头。“和全球其他地方相比，俄罗斯无疑是前景最好的，”在市场研究公司IHS里专门从事俄罗斯能源研究的分析师约翰·韦伯(John Webb)说。
Rosneft welcomed the deals: Extracting oil from these types of reserves represents a technical challenge, the statement said. “That is why Rosneft teamed up with the best international companies like Exxon Mobil and Statoil for the scope of exploring and producing those resources.”
俄油对这些协议表示欢迎：公司的一份声明称，这些类型的油藏开采起来是存在技术障碍的。“这就是为什么，俄油和埃克森美孚、挪威国家石油公司等世界顶尖的企业联手，共同进行这些资源的勘探和生产。”
The energy giants, in a sense, are betting that the Russian oil and gas industry will not be hit by direct sanctions.
某种意义上说，能源巨头们是在赌俄罗斯油气行业不会受到直接的制裁打击。
The energy industry provides financing for the Russian government and military, making sanctions a threat to continued action in Ukraine. But the United States and Europe must tread carefully, given the industry’s major role in world markets.
能源产业为俄罗斯政府和军队提供了资金支持，因此制裁措施对俄在乌克兰的持续行动就构成一种威慑。然而，美国和欧洲必须小心行事，毕竟这个产业在世界市场上扮演着重要角色。
From its swamps, tundra and wilderness, Russia pumps about the same volume of oil as Saudi Arabia, while exporting more energy than the desert kingdom, if oil and gas are counted together. Russia supplies about one-third of the gas to heat homes and generate electricity in Europe. And Russian oil and gas exports help ease energy reliance on the politically volatile Middle East.
俄罗斯在它的沼泽、冻原和荒野中开采到的石油，可以和沙特阿拉伯等量齐观，而如果把石油和天然气加在一起，它的能源出口比沙特还高。俄罗斯的天然气供应维持着欧洲家庭供暖和电力用气的三分之一。此外，俄罗斯油气出口还有助于缓解对政局动荡的中东的能源依赖。
For that reason, many analysts think Russian energy companies like Rosneft are simply too big to punish.
很多分析人士因此认为，像俄油这样的俄罗斯能源企业实在太过重要，根本不可能施加惩罚。