KABUL, Afghanistan — A growing number of Western officials are calling for an audit of the ballots cast in the Afghan presidential election, increasing the likelihood that the nation’s electoral commission will have to formally reassess the June 14 runoff vote even as it prepares to announce preliminary results.
阿富汗喀布尔——由于越来越多的西方官员呼吁对阿富汗的总统选举选票加以审核，该国选举委员会对6月14日的第二轮投票被迫进行重新评估的可能性有所增加，尽管它准备宣布初步计票的结果。
Ever since Afghans voted in the runoff, the system has been deadlocked by allegations of widespread fraud. The presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah has consistently complained that his opponent, Ashraf Ghani, with the help of the commission and other Afghan officials, rigged the vote.
自从阿富汗人进行第二轮投票以来，存在普遍作弊的指控就让选举陷入了僵局。总统候选人阿卜杜拉·阿卜杜拉(Abdullah Abdullah)一直控诉称，他的对手阿什拉夫·加尼(Ashraf Ghani)在该委员会以及其他阿富汗官员的帮助下，在这次选举中作了弊。
Mr. Abdullah spent weeks threatening to walk away from the process, and his brinkmanship now appears to be paying off. The continued political crisis has forced some international figures off the bench, despite earlier efforts to avoid the appearance of involvement in the Afghan elections.
阿卜杜拉这几周来都威胁要退出选举，这种冒险博弈现在似乎见了成效。持续发酵的政治危机已经迫使一些国际知名人士站了出来，尽管他们之前避免给人留下“插手阿富汗大选”的印象。
Mr. Abdullah has prodded, probed and cajoled both his government and the international community to get involved. He has called the system illegitimate, staged protests and leaked numerous tapes purporting to show election officials conspiring to rig the election in favor of Mr. Ghani.
阿卜杜拉一直在催促、打探、劝诱阿富汗政府和国际社会，要求它们插手此事。他声称选举过程不正当，并组织了抗议活动，曝光了大量磁带；据他称这些磁带显示选举官员合谋开展了有利于加尼的作弊行为。
Now, seemingly recognizing the potential that the political crisis has to turn violent and threaten long-term Western interests in Afghanistan, more international officials are starting to get involved. The most recent voice was that of Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who spoke to reporters in Kabul on Sunday.
现在，更多的国际官员似乎意识到，这场政治危机可能会演变成暴力骚乱，对西方在阿富汗的长期利益构成潜在威胁，于是纷纷参与此事。密歇根州民主党参议员卡尔·莱文(Carl Levin)上周日在喀布尔对记者讲话，是这种表态的最近一例。
Joined by the American ambassador, James B. Cunningham, Mr. Levin raised the prospect of a dual announcement on Monday, in which Afghan officials would both release preliminary results and announce an audit that would be satisfactory to both candidates.
莱文和美国驻阿富汗大使詹姆斯·B·坎宁安(James B. Cunningham)一起，谈到了阿富汗官员在本周一双管齐下的可能性，即既宣布初步计票结果，又宣布进行审核，这样两位候选人可能都会满意。
Just hours later, however, Mr. Abdullah pressed the commission to delay the release until fraudulent ballots have been identified and discarded. While there have been no official results, leaked reports suggested that Mr. Ghani had reversed Mr. Abdullah’s lead from the first round and was ahead in the vote count.
但是，仅仅几个小时之后，阿卜杜拉就要求委员会推迟宣布消息，直到作弊的选票被识别并作废为止。虽然正式计票结果尚未宣布，但泄露的报告显示，加尼已经逆转了阿卜杜拉在第一轮投票中的领先优势，获得了更多票数。
Officials from Mr. Abdullah’s campaign also indicated that the two sides had not reached an agreement on the extent of the audit.
阿卜杜拉的竞选经理还表示，双方未能就审核的范围达成一致。
“Until the clean votes are separated from the unclean, we will not accept the result,” Mr. Abdullah said. “Once they are separated, we have nothing to say and will accept the result.”
“在干净的选票和不干净的选票分开之前，我们不会接受计票结果，”阿卜杜拉说。“一旦选票分开，我们就没有什么话好说了，自然就会接受投票结果。”
It was unclear whether the election commission would go through with the release, as promised. The commission has so far delayed results on more than one occasion to help ease the political crisis.
目前还不清楚选举委员会是否会像他们承诺的那样宣布消息。该委员会为了缓解政治危机，已经不止一次地推迟宣布结果。
Mr. Levin, who warned of dire consequences if the election did not proceed, was only the latest American official to visit Kabul in the past few weeks. Ambassador James Dobbins, the special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan who announced last week that he is stepping down, was recently in town to urge the candidates to stick with the process.
莱文警告说，如果选举不继续进行，将会出现可怕的后果；过去几周内，已经有多名美国官员前往喀布尔，莱文只是最近的一位。上周宣布将会离任的美国驻阿富汗和巴基斯坦事务特别代表詹姆斯·多宾斯(James Dobbins)最近也在喀布尔，他呼吁候选人不要偏离选举过程。
After Mr. Dobbins came two Republican senators, John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who encouraged a thorough audit and also made clear that American aid for Afghanistan would almost certainly dry up if the political crisis was not resolved.
多宾斯之后又来了两名共和党参议员，分别是亚利桑那州的约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)和南卡罗莱纳州林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)，他们支持对投票进行彻底审核，并明确表示，如果这场政治危机不解决，美国对阿富汗的援助几乎肯定会中止。
But perhaps the most direct, and first, admonition came from the European Union, which released a strong statement suggesting that an initial audit of 1,930 polling centers was insufficient to unearth all of the fraud.
但是最早的、也许是最直接的警告来自于欧盟。它发布了一份语气强烈的声明，称对1930个投票中心进行的初步审核，并不足以曝光所有作弊行为。
The monitor said the commission should also take into account “highly improbable votes for one single candidate in polling stations, or unlikely discrepancies between female and male votes.” All told, according to the statement, “the number of problematic polling stations could well exceed 6,000 out of a total of 22,828.”
欧盟表示，该委员会应当考虑到“在一些投票站，选票全部都是投给同一位候选人的，这是极不可能出现的情形，而且女性和男性之间的投票差异也异乎寻常。”总而言之，该声明表示，“在总共22828个投票站中，有问题的投票站非常可能超过6000个。”
Seeking common ground, the candidates’ teams have been meeting to discuss an audit, an arrangement brokered with the help of Vice President Yunus Qanooni, among others. A central issue in the talks has been what criteria to use to identify questionable ballot boxes. The election commission has been using polling stations where 599 or more votes were cast, which is how it came up with the original 1,930-station audit.
为了寻求共识，两位候选人的团队开了会，讨论审核事宜或其他安排；这个会议是由阿富汗副总统尤努斯·加努尼(Yunus Qanooni)等人促成的。会谈的核心问题是：用什么标准来辨识可疑投票箱。选举委员会只检查那些投票数在599或以上的投票箱，这个标准是在最初审核1930个投票站时提出的。
But Mr. Abdullah’s camp is pressing for more in-depth reviews, arguing that the single criterion catches only the most blatant fraud. In one of the audio recordings leaked by his campaign, people alleged to be election officials are recorded telling others to avoid stuffing ballot boxes with enough votes to set off the fraud review.
但阿卜杜拉的团队要求进行更加深入的审查，他们认为，使用单一标准只能查出最明显的作弊行为。在该团队曝光的一盒录音带中，据说是选举官员的一些人对别人说，不要在投票箱里投太多假票，以免遭到作弊审查。