Several months ago, Jann Wenner, a founder of Rolling Stone magazine, received a call from the actor Sean Penn.
数月前，《滚石》杂志(Rolling Stone)的创办人扬·温纳(Jann Wenner)接到了演员西恩·潘(Sean Penn)打来的一通电话。 
Mr. Penn, Mr. Wenner said in an interview on Sunday, wanted to discuss something important. But he did not want to speak openly over the phone, so the two began to speak elliptically about a potential project.
温纳在周日的访谈中表示，潘当时是想和他讨论一件要事，但又不想在电话上讲得太直白，所以他们就拐弯抹角地谈起了一个可以进行的计划。
That vague conversation was the beginning of what eventually became an article, written by Mr. Penn, that rocked both Mexico and the United States when it was published Saturday night. It was an exclusive interview with Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the notorious drug kingpin known as El Chapo, that was conducted while Mr. Guzmán was on the run from the authorities after an audacious escape from a Mexican prison last year.
这一席模糊的谈话最终演变成潘执笔的一篇文章。此文在周六晚间发表后，在墨西哥与美国均造成了轰动。这是一篇独家专访，主角乔奎因·古兹曼·洛埃拉(Joaquín Guzmán Loera)是个恶名昭彰的毒枭，人称“矮子”(El Chapo)。古兹曼去年刚自墨西哥监狱脱逃成功，肆无忌惮，接受潘访问的时候仍然在逃。
The 10,000-word article includes accusations of cooperation between the military and Mr. Guzmán’s Sinaloa cartel, as well as Mr. Guzmán’s acknowledgment of his status as a drug dealer and his thoughts about the ethical implications of his business. Mr. Guzmán, whose escape from prison — his second — made him one of the most wanted fugitives in the world, was caught on Friday, before the article was published.
在这篇长达一万单词的文章里，潘声称墨西哥军方和古兹曼领导的锡纳罗亚贩毒集团有勾结，古兹曼则自承是个毒品贩子。对于自己的生意牵涉的道德问题，他也发表了看法。古兹曼在这次越狱——已是他第二次逃狱——之后，成为全世界最臭名昭著的逃犯，而他也在文章公之于世之前，就在上周五被抓获了。
But after its publication, questions have been raised about the ethics for the magazine in dealing with Mr. Guzmán, a criminal being sought on charges of drug trafficking and murder, and in allowing him to approve what would ultimately be published about him. The Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio, speaking Sunday on “This Week,” on ABC News, acknowledged Mr. Penn’s “constitutional right” to meet with Mr. Guzmán, but called the interview “grotesque.”
然而这篇文章刊出后，众人开始质疑，《滚石》杂志和古兹曼的往来是否有违专业伦理。古兹曼是个背负走私毒品与谋杀罪名的逃犯不说，滚石还允许他审核这篇关于他本人的文章。周日时，共和党总统候选人马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)在ABC新闻台的《本周》(This Week)节目上表示，他承认潘有“受到宪法保障的权利”去和古兹曼见面，但他还是认为这次专访很“诡异”。
Steve Coll, the dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, said he was concerned by the editorial approval offered to Mr. Guzmán. But ultimately, he said, “scoring an exclusive interview with a wanted criminal is legitimate journalism no matter who the reporter is.”
哥伦比亚大学新闻研究生院的院长史蒂夫·科尔(Steve Coll)也表示，他对《滚石》允许古兹曼染指编辑权一事感到不安。不过科尔还是说，最终，“不论记者是谁，做成一篇通缉要犯的独家专访，还是在合理的新闻范畴之内。”
Mr. Wenner said that he did not think it was plausible that the magazine would become embroiled in the legal case against Mr. Guzmán. “They got their man, so what do they need us for?” he said. “There is nothing we can add anymore.”
温纳表示，他并不认为《滚石》杂志会因此卷入和古兹曼有关的法律案件。“想抓的人都已经抓到了，还找我们做什么呢？”他反问道。“我们没有可以再帮忙的地方了。”
A lawyer for the magazine, and its managing editor, Jason Fine, were eventually brought in to help with the editing process. Work on the article was completed about two weeks ago, Mr. Wenner said, but because of Rolling Stone’s production cycle, those involved were subjected to an excruciating wait for the next issue, during which time Mr. Guzmán was captured.
身兼《滚石》杂志律师与执行主编二职的杰森·法恩(Jason Fine)，最终也加入到这篇文章的编辑工作中。温纳透露，文章大约在两周前就完稿了，不过为了配合杂志的刊印周期，所有当事人不得不熬过漫长的等待，直到新一期出刊为止。古兹曼也就是在这段期间被捕获的。
The reporting and editing of the article were closely held, in part, to avoid the authorities. “I was worried that I did not want to provide the details that would be responsible for his capture,” Mr. Wenner said. “We were very conscientious on our end and on Sean’s end, keeping it quiet, using a separate protected part of our server for emails.”
文章的报道与编辑工作进行得非常隐密，部分原因就是为了避开当局。“我很担心，因为我不想提供可能导致古兹曼被捕的线索，”温纳表示。“我们这边非常小心，西恩也是，行事低调，只透过公司服务器上受到保护的独立部分收发电邮。”
Around Thanksgiving, as Mr. Penn negotiated with Mr. Guzmán and his intermediaries to include a video component of the interview, which was eventually sent to him by courier, the magazine was convinced that it would have to resist pressure from the authorities in the United States and Mexico who would want to learn as much as they could about Mr. Guzmán’s whereabouts.
感恩节前后，潘与古兹曼及其中间人进行了协商，希望在采访中纳入视频部分——最终这则视频通过信使交给了潘。在协商期间，《滚石》确信，美国和墨西哥当局会希望从杂志这里得到尽可能多的有关古兹曼下落的消息，而杂志必须抵挡住这种压力。
“We made sure we didn’t have any information to give them, other than what we published,” he said. “But we would have done everything that a traditional journalism operation would have done in terms of protecting sources.”
“我们要确保，除了刊登出来的东西，手里没有任何值得交给他们的信息，”他说。“不过，我们本来也会按照传统新闻机构保护信源的标准竭尽所能。”
Mr. Wenner said that Mr. Guzmán seemed to have become careless with those he contacted while on the run, and would most likely have been tracked whether or not Mr. Penn wrote an article. In fact, the meeting between Mr. Guzmán and Mr. Penn had been monitored by the authorities, according to a Mexican official with knowledge of the operation. That led to an October raid on Mr. Guzmán’s compound in the state of Durango in which he managed to evade capture but which gave the authorities more intelligence about his movements.
温纳表示，在逃跑过程中，古兹曼似乎对自己的对外联络有所松懈，不管潘有没有写这篇文章，当局都可能追查到他的踪迹。实际上，根据一名知情的墨西哥官员的说法，古兹曼与潘的会面受到了当局的监控。这导致古兹曼在杜兰戈州的藏身处10月份遭到突击行动的打击，虽然他本人侥幸逃脱，但让当局掌握了有关他行踪的更多情报。
There is a long history of journalists interviewing subjects who were either on the run from the authorities or who were considered unsavory for other reasons. Osama bin Laden was interviewed through the late 1990s, after he had declared jihad on the United States (though before the Sept. 11 attacks). In 2013, the former basketball star Dennis Rodman went to North Korea to meet with that country’s repressive dictator, Kim Jong-un, for Vice.
新闻工作者采访躲避当局追捕的对象或因其他理由而臭名昭著的人物的做法由来已久。90年代末，奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)宣布向美国发起圣战之后（但在9·11袭击之前），曾多次接受采访。2013年，退役的篮球明星丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)代表Vice前往朝鲜与该国压制人民的独裁者金正恩(Kim Jong-un)会面。
As for giving Mr. Guzmán final approval over the article, Mr. Wenner said: “I don’t think it was a meaningful thing in the first place. We have let people in the past approve their quotes in interviews.”
至于允许古兹曼对文章进行最终审核一事，温纳表示：“首先我认为这并没有什么意义。我们过去一直让信源审核在采访中的引语。”
Mr. Guzmán, he said, did not speak English and seemed to have little interest in editing Mr. Penn’s work. “In this case, it was a small thing to do in exchange for what we got,” Mr. Wenner said.
他说，古兹曼不会英语，没有表现出对编辑潘的文章有什么兴趣。“就这次的情况而言，这是为了我们得到的东西而做的小小交换。”