ZARRINABAD, Iran — Rising from the yellowish, treeless plains so typical for central Iran stands a square labyrinth of pipes and conveyor belts, topped by a silver chimney that glitters in the summer sun.
伊朗扎里纳巴德——在伊朗中部典型的没有树木的黄色荒原上，可以看到一片由纵横交错的管道和传送带组成的方形区域，银色烟囱耸立其间，在夏日的阳光下闪闪发光。
Sanctions against Iran failed to halt the construction of the complex, a steel mill that went into operation in September and now churns out ingots and billets. The sanctions also did not stop Sheng Kuan Li, a Chinese businessman, from pouring $200 million into the project.
针对伊朗实施的制裁没能阻止这个钢铁厂的建设，它于去年9月建成投产，现在正大量制造铸锭和小钢胚。制裁措施也没能阻止中国商人李盛宽（音）为这个项目注入2亿美元资金。
Mr. Li is one of many Chinese investors who in recent years worked around the sanctions imposed on Iran by the United States and other world powers over Tehran’s nuclear program.
李盛宽是最近几年绕过美国等大国针对德黑兰核项目所实施的制裁，在伊朗进行投资的中国人之一。
His steel mill and other similar endeavors are the result of a strategic pact that gives China a much-needed western gateway to Middle Eastern markets and beyond, and that has saved Iran from international isolation and economic ruin.
他的钢铁厂和其他类似投资都是一项战略协定带来的成果，该协议给中国提供了它所急需的进入中东及其他市场的西部入口，也使得伊朗免于被国际社会孤立和陷入经济崩溃。
On Saturday, both countries agreed to increase trade to $600 billion in the coming decade.
周六，两国达成协议，计划在接下来的10年里将两国的贸易额增至6000亿美元。
That agreement was made during a meeting between Iran’s leaders and China’s president, Xi Jinping, who late last week became the first foreign leader to visit Iran after most international sanctions were lifted. China has relied on Iranian oil and views the country as a vital link in Mr. Xi’s so-called Silk Road strategy, an ambitious agenda that seeks to extend China’s economic influence westward.
这项协议是在伊朗多位领导人和中国国家主席习近平于上周晚些时候举行会晤时签署的，习近平因此成为大多数国际制裁解除后第一位访问伊朗的外国领导人。中国依赖伊朗的石油，将伊朗看作习近平的丝绸之路战略中至关重要的一环，这个宏大的战略试图将中国的经济影响力向西扩展。
“Where we had to stand on the sidelines, the Chinese have been filling the void,” said a European diplomat who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss strategic considerations. “They are way ahead of all of us.”
“在所有我们不得不退出的市场，中国都在填补那里的空缺，”一名选择匿名谈论这些战略考量的欧洲外交官说。“他们远远跑在了我们所有人的前面。”
The deep Chinese footprint in Iran does not manifest itself only in the tens of thousands of inexpensive cars that have flooded the streets of Tehran in the past few years. Investors like Mr. Li, who has built two other factories here, as well as Chinese state companies, are active all over the country, building highways, digging mines and melting steel.
过去几年，德黑兰街道上挤满了成千上万价格低廉的汽车，但中国在伊朗的深入存在不仅仅体现于此。像李盛宽这样的投资者——他在这里另外还建了两座厂——在伊朗全国各处都能看到，还有不少中国国有企业在这里建设高速公路、挖矿和炼钢。
In Tehran, the Chinese have been involved in the construction of a huge elevated expressway and the building of the Niayesh Tunnel, which at more than three and a half miles will be one of the longest urban tunnels in the world. The city’s metro system was built from scratch, starting in 1995, with Chinese capital and Chinese engineers. The train cars that run on it are Chinese, too.
在德黑兰，中国人一直在参与建设一条巨大的高架快速道以及尼亚耶什隧道(Niayesh Tunnel)，这条预计长逾3.5英里的隧道将成为世界上最长的都市隧道之一。同样在中国资本和中国工程师的参与下，德黑兰的地铁系统从1995年开始建设，在这些线路上行驶的地铁车辆也是由中国制造。
“Westerners visiting the capital often wonder how we managed to pull off such ambitious projects during the heaviest sanction regime in history,” said Mohammad Reza Sabzalipour, Iran’s World Trade Center representative. “Well, we did it with the help of our Chinese friends.”
“去德黑兰旅行的西方人往往会惊讶于我们怎么会在历史上制裁最严厉的时期建成这些雄伟的工程，”伊朗驻世界贸易中心代表穆罕默德·礼萨·萨布扎利普尔(Mohammad Reza Sabzalipour)说。“事实上，是我们的中国朋友帮我们实现了这一点。”
Thirst for cheap crude oil and enthusiasm for the Silk Road project, which incorporates the goal of unlocking China’s isolated western provinces, brought the Chinese to Iran, the only country in the Middle East where the United States had no presence.
对廉价原油的的渴求，对内含开发中国偏僻西部省份这一目标的丝绸之路计划的热情，把中国人带到了伊朗，带到这个中东地区唯一完全没有美国势力存在的国家。
Iran had long welcomed the relationship, but after sanctions started to squeeze the economy at the end of the last decade, the country gained a special status, and China’s slow but steady advance here began.
伊朗一直对这样的关系持欢迎态度，但自上一个10年末期针对伊朗的制裁开始挤压其经济空间之后，中国获得了一种特殊地位，自此开启了它在伊朗缓慢而稳健的发展。
“We are Iran’s biggest trading partner for six years in a row,” Mr. Xi wrote in an open letter to the Iranian people, Xinhua, China’s state news agency, reported on Thursday, a day before his arrival on a Middle East tour that will also take him to Saudi Arabia and Egypt.
据中国官方通讯社新华社周四报道，中国国家主席习近平在给伊朗人民的一封公开信中写道，“中国连续六年保持伊朗第一大贸易伙伴国地位。”周四是习近平前往中东访问的前一天，这次出行他还将访问沙特阿拉伯和埃及。
During the Iran-Iraq war, China sold weapons, including Silkworm missiles, to Iran.
在两伊战争期间，中国曾对伊朗销售包括蚕式导弹在内的多种武器。
China looked the other way when the Iranians sought to advance their missile technology, and assisted in developing the country’s nuclear energy program.
当伊朗试图发展自身的导弹技术时，中国装作没看见，还帮助伊朗发展核能源项目。
“After the revolution we exchanged the Western frowns with the smiles from the East,” said Asadollah Asgaroladi, one of Iran’s wealthiest businessmen and the head of the Iran-China chamber of commerce. “They continue to smile at us.”
“伊朗伊斯兰革命发生后，我们不再理会西方紧皱的眉头，而是拥抱来自东方的微笑，”伊朗最富有的商人之一、伊中商会会长阿萨杜拉·阿斯加罗拉迪(Asadollah Asgaroladi)说。“他们持续友好地对待我们。”
So the two countries, which were connected by the old Silk Road, have embarked on building a new one.
因此，这两个曾经由古老的丝绸之路连接起来的国家，已经开始修建一条新的丝绸之路。
“China has considerable strength in capital, technologies, equipment and other areas,” Mr. Xi wrote in his letter. “Iran has rich resources, ample labor force and huge market potential, and it is in the crucial stage of industrialization and modernization.”
“中国在资金、技术、设备等领域有较强的实力，”习近平在信中写道。“伊朗拥有丰富的资源、充裕的劳动力和巨大的市场潜力，正处在工业化、现代化的关键阶段。”
In the last decade, trade started gravitating toward China and away from Germany, Iran’s traditional partner, with a business volume of more than $30 billion annually. Iran exported $19 billion in crude oil and petrochemical products and imported $17 billion in goods and services in 2013.
德国曾是伊朗一直以来的合作伙伴，过去10年里，伊朗贸易开始偏离德国，转向中国，伊中每年贸易量超过300亿美元。2013年，伊朗出口了190亿美元的原油和石化产品，进口了170亿美元的商品和服务。
Iran’s other big petroleum customers, South Korea and Japan, were persuaded by the United States to halve their purchases of Iranian light crude.
韩国和日本也是伊朗的石油大客户，但美国说服它们各自将伊朗轻质原油的购买量削减了一半。
China did not play along.
中国不理会这一套。
“They are an independent country,” Mr. Asgaroladi said. “They don’t allow the Americans to tell them what to do. So they buy our oil, now and in the future.”
“他们是一个独立的国家，”阿斯加罗拉迪说。“他们不会听命于美国人。所以他们会购买我们的石油，无论是现在还是未来。”
On Saturday, the Chinese president sat down with Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who told him that “Iranians had never trusted the West.” That was why Iran was seeking more cooperation with independent countries, Ayatollah Khamenei said, clearly indicating China.
上周六，中国国家主席与伊朗最高领袖阿亚图拉阿里·哈梅内伊(Ayatollah Ali Khamenei)座谈，哈梅内伊对他说：“伊朗从来不信任西方。”这就是为什么伊朗正寻求与独立国家进行更多合作的原因，他的这番话明显是在指中国。
In order to ease Chinese oil payments to Iran, a bank was created, Mr. Asgaroladi said.
阿斯加罗拉迪说，为了方便中国向伊朗支付石油款，他们成立了一家银行。
Although that institution, the Bank of Kunlun, was formed to handle oil money, Reuters, quoting a Western intelligence report, said in 2014 that the elite Quds Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps also used the bank for payments.
2014年，路透社(Reuters)援引西方情报报告称，虽然这家“昆仑银行”创立的目的是结算石油款项，但伊斯兰革命卫队的精锐部队圣城军(Quds Force)也通过这家银行付款。
The Chinese may have no qualms about buying Iranian oil, but they take care not to violate United States sanctions on banking transactions because of their extensive use of American banks, Mr. Asgaroladi said.
中国人可能会毫不犹豫地购买伊朗石油，但阿斯加罗拉迪说，他们也很小心地避免触犯美国对银行交易的制裁。
“The Ministry of Oil’s money is deposited in accounts in this bank,” he said. “We use 30 to 40 percent to make cash payments for purchases elsewhere in Asia, and the rest is used to finance projects in Iran and buy Chinese items.”
“石油部的资金存在这家银行的账户里，”他说。“我们用其中30%到40%的钱从亚洲其他地区购买产品，其余的钱则用来为伊朗的项目提供资金，以及购买中国产品。”
During a visit last summer to Mr. Li’s steel mill, near the village of Zarrinabad, Chinese laborers were sweeping in preparation for its opening.
去年夏天到扎里纳巴德村附近参观李的钢铁厂时，中国工人正在进行大扫除，为开工做准备。
Speaking through an interpreter, Mr. Li said that he became interested in Iran after relatives told him that it was an interesting place to invest, and that he came here in 2010. While he refused to go into details of how the money for the project arrived, he said it involved a “private transfer,” essentially a money swap that was based on trust and that avoided traditional banking routes.
在通过翻译交谈时，李盛宽说，之前有亲戚告诉他，到伊朗去投资会很有意思，这引起了他的兴趣，于是2010年他来到了这里。他拒绝详细解释项目资金是如何转到这里的，但表示其中涉及“私人转账”，基本来说，这种资金转手是在信任的基础上进行的，避开了传统的银行转款方式。
Mr. Asgaroladi said Mr. Li had received financing through the Chinese government but did not say how that money made it to Iran. “We do a lot of bartering,” he said.
阿斯加罗拉迪说，李得到了中国政府的资金支持，但他没说钱是怎么进入伊朗的。“我们开展了大量的易货贸易，”他说。
“If all goes well, we will have a yearly output of 600,000 tons of steel,” an assistant to Mr. Li said. In August, the plant — which has a private train, 700 mostly Chinese employees and a huge exhaust tower — was officially opened in the presence of Iranian and Chinese officials.
“如果一切顺利，我们的钢产量将达到每年60万吨，”李的助理说。去年8月，该工厂正式投产的时候，伊朗和中国都有官员到场。该工厂自己有一列火车，厂里矗立着巨大的排气塔，700多名工人以中国人为主。
China took the opportunity the sanctions offered, said Mr. Sabzalipour, the Tehran World Trade Center representative. Of course, for outsiders, it seems as if the Chinese have ignored the economic cordon against Iran, he said.
德黑兰世界贸易中心代表萨布扎利普尔说，中国抓住了制裁的机会。当然他也说，在外界看来，这好像是中国人无视了对伊朗的经济封锁。
“On the other hand, I think it was never the intention to destroy our economy, just make us feel pain,” he said. “So perhaps the Americans intentionally looked the other way when China threw us this lifeline.”
“另一方面，我认为制裁的目的从来都不是破坏我们的经济，只是让我们吃点苦头，”他说。“所以，当中国把这条生命线递给我们的时候，美国人可能就装着没看见。”