Mung beans, sticky rice and banana leaves. Confetti and little red envelopes for gift money.
绿豆，糯米和芭蕉叶。彩纸礼宾花和装压岁钱的小红包。
Essential items for the start of Chinese New Year celebrations on Thursday were in short supply across the United States, an example of the widening and sometimes unexpected fallout from the gridlock at seaports on the West Coast.
中国农历新年的庆祝活动从周四开始；而在美国，这些庆祝活动不可或缺的物品正处于供不应求的状态。这个事实反映了美国西海岸海港的僵局所产生的不断扩大的，有时还有些出人意料的负面影响。
The impasse, caused by a protracted labor dispute between the longshoremen’s union and shipowners, has brought crippling delays to sea freight in and out of the country and is wreaking havoc for retailers, food companies, farmers and manufacturers. For weeks, McDonald’s scrambled to address a global shortage of French fries, flying 1,000 tons of frozen fries to Japan to bypass the logjam.
码头工人工会组织和船东之间长期的劳资纠纷所引起的僵局严重耽搁了进出美国的海运活动，给零售商、食品公司、农民和制造商造成了严重损失。连续数周，麦当劳(McDonald’s)一直在手忙脚乱地应对世界各地炸薯条短缺的状况，为了绕开这个僵局，公司把1000吨冷冻薯条空运到了日本。
Now, as communities across the country welcome the Lunar New Year — a holiday period of shopping and festivities akin to Thanksgiving or Christmas — containers laden with trinkets and food and at least 100,000 bottles of soy sauce are languishing on freighters moored off California. The vast Los Angeles-Long Beach port complex, together with ports in Oakland, Calif.; Tacoma, Wash.; and Seattle, together handle half of the container traffic entering the United States.
如今，随着美国各地的社区都在迎接农历新年——这个假期与感恩节或圣诞节类似，人们在此期间购物、举办庆祝活动，满载着各种小玩意、食物和至少10万瓶酱油的集装箱却被搁置在停泊在加利福尼亚州海岸的货船上。广阔的洛杉矶-长滩综合性港区，和加州奥克兰、华盛顿州塔科马，以及西雅图的海港的集装箱运输量占据了美国集装箱运输总量的一半。
“There’s not enough sticky rice to make the dumplings. We don’t have holiday cookies or mung bean cakes. We’re running out of soy sauce,” said Jacklyn Sher, manager of H. C. Foods, a food importer in southeast Los Angeles, who said she was seeing worsening sea freight delays.
位于洛杉矶东南部的食品进口商汉昌食品公司(H. C. Foods)的总经理佘若琳(Jacklyn Sher)说，“没有足够的糯米用来包粽子。我们没有节日吃的饼干，也没有绿豆糕。酱油也快不够了。”她说，海运延迟的现象正变得愈加严重。
H. C. Foods brings in 50 to 100 containers a month, she said. But over the last two weeks, the company received just one container, a shipment that was due six weeks ago. Almost 200 containers of goodies including rice, beans, soy sauce, coconut milk and banana, bamboo and lotus leaves are stranded off various West Coast ports.
她说，汉昌食品公司每个月要购入50至100个集装箱的货物。但是过去两周，公司只收到了一个集装箱，这箱货物本应在六周之前送来。目前有近200个集装箱的大米、豆类、酱油、椰奶和香蕉、竹子和荷叶等货物被滞留在西海岸的各个港口。
“Everything is out there, on the water,” Ms. Sher said.
佘若琳说，“所有东西都在那儿，在水上。”
In a bid to break the gridlock, Secretary of Labor Thomas E. Perez and Commerce Secretary Penny Pritzker have been meeting this week in San Francisco with both sides of the dispute. Labor officials indicated few signs of a breakthrough late Wednesday, saying only that the Obama administration would continue to work with both parties on an agreement.
为了打破这种僵局，劳工部长托马斯·E·佩雷斯(Thomas E. Perez)和商务部长彭妮·普利茨克(Penny Pritzker)本周在旧金山与争议双方举行了会晤。劳工部官员称，周三晚些时候出现了一些突破迹象，官员只表示奥巴马政府将继续与双方进行合作，以达成一项协议。
Their visit came after owners suspended the unloading of container ships and other cargo vessels completely over the Presidents’ Day weekend because of what they called “a strike with pay.” The port owners imposed a similar two-day limit on work the previous weekend, a move port workers charged was a ploy to punish them and increase pressure to settle on a new labor contract after nine months of negotiations.
此前，在总统日(Presidents’ Day)之前的那个周末，港口业主因为他们所谓的“带薪罢工”而完全停止了集装箱运货船和其他货轮的卸货工作。之前一周，这些港口业主也强制推行了一个类似的为期两天的工作时限。港口工人指责这一举动是为了惩罚他们，以及对他们施压，迫使他们接受一个新的劳工合同。双方已经就此进行了9个月的谈判。
Some of the country’s biggest retail brands are now working to reroute their wares. Christopher H. Peterson, chief financial officer of Ralph Lauren, said this month that the company air-freighted more products into the United States last quarter. “We also wound up routing a lot of product via water routing, so we shifted around the U.S. and received it in the East Coast ports,” he said.
如今，美国一些最大的零售品牌正在更改产品的运输路线。拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)的首席财务官克里斯托弗·H·彼得森(Christopher H. Peterson)本月表示，上个季度，公司把更多产品空运到了美国。他说，“通过水路来运输大量产品让我们感到紧张，所以我们不停地在美国各地变更地点，在东海岸的港口接收货物。”
The National Retail Federation warns that a full strike or lockout at the West Coast ports costs the United States economy $2.1 billion a day in higher transport costs and missed sales. A similar, 10-day shutdown of West Coast ports in 2002 cost the economy about $1 billion a day.
美国零售联合会(National Retail Federation)警告称，如果西海岸港口出现全面罢工或停工，美国经济每天就会因为更高的运输成本和错过的销售而损失21亿美元（约合131亿元人民币）。2002年，西海岸港口出现过为期10天的类似停工，美国经济每天的损失大约为10亿美元。
“The effects of the shutdown are starting to ripple through the economy, and there’s no end in sight,” said Tony McGee, chief executive of HNM Global Logistics, a freight forwarding company based in Orlando, Fla., and a member of a committee that advises the Department of Commerce on logistics.
“关闭港口的影响已经开始波及整个经济，而且目前还看不到尽头，”设在佛罗里达州奥兰多的货运代理公司HNM全球物流公司(HNM Global Logistics)的首席执行官托尼·麦吉(Tony McGee)说。他也是一个为商务部提供物流建议的委员会的成员。
One of his client importers was initially worried about getting ski masks to market before the end of ski season, Mr. McGee said, but was now worrying about whether sunglasses would arrive before summer. His company routed some containers through Vancouver and Prince Rupert in Canada, and transported them by rail into the United States.
麦吉说，他的一个进口商客户最初担心能否在滑雪季节结束前让滑雪面罩面市，现在却担心太阳镜能否在夏季之前到达。他的公司通过温哥华和鲁珀特王子港运输了一些集装箱，然后用铁路把它们运到了美国。
Several weeks ago, however, “every other company caught on and started to do the same thing,” he said. “Now we’re starting to see backlogs in those ports.”
然而，数周以前，“其他每个公司都开始跟风，也开始这样做了，”他说。“现在，这些港口也开始出现货物积压现象。”
The stakes are high when Chinese New Year is involved.
在中国农历新年到来之际，问题尤其严重。
After almost two months of delays, Ben Tan, a manager at the Harmony Gift Center in New York’s Chinatown, resorted to using air freight from China to fly in festive posters, confetti and the red-and-gold envelopes traditionally used to give money to family members and friends.
经过近两个月的延误，纽约唐人街和谐礼品中心(Harmony Gift Center)的经理本·陈（Ben Tan，音译）便开始利用来自中国的货机运输各种节日贴画、彩纸礼宾花，以及红色与金色相间的信封——这种信封传统上是用来给家人和朋友包红包的。
But bulkier items, like new lion dance costumes that are custom-made of wood and silk in specialty craft shops in rural China, were too expensive to fly in, he said, and did not make it to America for the critical shopping period before the New Year.
但是他说，空运一些体积较大的货品，比如舞狮服装——这些都是在中国农村专门的手工艺品商店用木头和丝绸特别定制的——费用过高，未能飞抵美国赶上新年之前的重要购物季。
“Delay, delay, delay,” Mr. Tan said. “I missed the holiday season. I lost a lot of money.”
“延迟，延迟，延迟，”本·陈说。“我错过了假期购物季，损失了很多钱。”
Taylor Chow, spokesman for the Oriental Food Association in the San Francisco Bay Area, said that Chinese communities across the country were dependent on food imported from Asia to the West Coast. His distribution company, American Tai Wah in Oakland, had almost 10 huge container cars full of soy sauce — about 100,000 bottles, he estimated — and vinegar, potato starch, noodles and canned foods sitting in freighters off the coast, he said.
旧金山湾区东方食品商会(Oriental Food Association)发言人周晓滨(Taylor Chow)表示，全美各地的华裔社区都依赖于从亚洲进口到西海岸的食物。他说，他位于奥克兰的分销公司美国大华(American Tai Wah)几乎有10个装满酱油——他估计大约有10万瓶酱油——以及醋、淀粉、面条和罐头的大型货柜车滞留在沿海的货船里。
“Demand during the holiday season is double or triple of normal, and we’re supposed to be prepared with a full warehouse. But our warehouse is almost empty,” he said. The added costs and missed business will force him to cut hours soon for his seven employees, he said.
“节假日的需求量大约是平时的两至三倍，我们本应该准备满满一仓库的货物，但现在仓库几乎空了。”他说。他还表示，额外的成本和损失的生意将迫使他立即减少七名雇员的劳动时间。