Scientists have found the oldest DNA evidence yet of humans’ biological history. But instead of neatly clarifying human evolution, the finding is adding new mysteries.
科学家们发现了迄今为止人类生物历史的最古老DNA证据。但是该发现不仅没有解开人类进化史中的奥秘，反而带来了新的谜团。
In a paper in the journal Nature, scientists reported Wednesday that they had retrieved ancient human DNA from a fossil dating back about 400,000 years, shattering the previous record of 100,000 years.
在《自然》杂志(Nature)本周三发表的一篇论文中，科学家表示，他们已经从一块距今约40万年的化石中提取到了古人类DNA，打破了10万年的原纪录。
The fossil, a thigh bone found in Spain, had previously seemed to many experts to belong to a forerunner of Neanderthals. But its DNA tells a very different story. It most closely resembles DNA from an enigmatic lineage of humans known as Denisovans. Until now, Denisovans were known only from DNA retrieved from 80,000-year-old remains in Siberia, 4,000 miles east of where the new DNA was found.
这块在西班牙发现的股骨化石，很多专家之前都推测属于尼安德特人(Neanderthals)的祖先。但它的DNA却讲述了一个完全不同的故事：它跟一个被称为丹尼索瓦人(Denisovans)的神秘人类群体最为相近。此前，丹尼索瓦人的DNA只从西伯利亚一些8万年前的遗骸中提取到过，而西伯利亚在这个新的DNA发现位置以东4000英里以外。
The mismatch between the anatomical and genetic evidence surprised the scientists, who are now rethinking human evolution over the past few hundred thousand years. It is possible, for example, that there are many extinct human populations that scientists have yet to discover. They might have interbred, swapping DNA. Scientists hope that further studies of extremely ancient human DNA will clarify the mystery.
解剖学和遗传学证据的不一致让科学家感到惊讶，现在他们正在重新审视人类过去几百万年的进化历程。比如说，科学家们尚未发现的已经灭绝的人类种群可能还有很多。他们可能杂交繁殖，交换了DNA。科学家希望，对极古老的人类DNA的进一步研究将解开其中的奥秘。
“Right now, we’ve basically generated a big question mark,” said Matthias Meyer, a geneticist at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, and a co-author of the new study.
“眼下，我们基本上就是写下了一个大大的问号，”这篇论文的联合作者马蒂亚斯·迈耶(Matthias Meyer)说，他是德国莱比锡马克斯·普朗克进化人类学研究所(Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology)的遗传学家。
Hints at new hidden complexities in the human story came from a 400,000-year-old femur found in a cave in Spain called Sima de los Huesos (“the pit of bones” in Spanish). The scientific team used new methods to extract the ancient DNA from the fossil.
这块在人类的故事中提示了新的复杂性的化石，来自于一根40万年前的股骨，它是在西班牙一个名叫胡瑟裂谷（Sima de los Huesos，西班牙语中有“骨坑”的意思）的洞穴里发现的。这个科研小组使用了新的方法来提取化石中的古DNA。
“This would not have been possible even a year ago,” said Juan Luis Arsuaga, a paleoanthropologist at Universidad Complutense de Madrid and a co-author of the paper.
“仅仅一年之前，这都不可能办到，” 西班牙马德里康普顿斯大学(Universidad Complutense de Madrid)的古人类学家、该论文联合作者胡安·路易斯·阿苏亚加(Juan Luis Arsuaga)说。
When Dr. Meyer and his colleagues drilled into the femur, they found ancient human DNA inside, just as they had hoped.
正如他们预料的那样，迈耶和同事们用仪器钻进这根股骨，发现了里面的古人类DNA。
“Our expectation was that it would be a very early Neanderthal,” Dr. Meyer said.
“我们本以为会是一个非常早期的尼安德特人。”迈耶说。
But the DNA did not match that of Neanderthals. Dr. Meyer then compared it to the DNA of the Denisovans, the ancient human lineage that he and his colleagues had discovered in Siberia in 2010. He was shocked to find that it was similar.
但它跟尼安德特人的DNA并不匹配。于是迈耶就把它跟丹尼索瓦人的DNA进行了比较，后者是他和同事们2010年在西伯利亚发现的一个古人类群体。他震惊地发现它们很相似。
“Everybody had a hard time believing it at first,” Dr. Meyer said. “So we generated more and more data to nail it down.”
“一开始大家都不敢相信。”迈耶说。“于是我们就生成了越来越多的数据来证明它。”
The extra research confirmed that the DNA belonged on the Denisovan branch of the human family tree.
追加的研究证实，DNA属于人类族谱的丹尼索瓦分支。
The new finding is hard to reconcile with the picture of human evolution that has been emerging based on fossils and ancient DNA. Denisovans were believed to be limited to East Asia, and they were not thought to look so Neanderthal-like.
这项新发现，跟用化石和古DNA勾勒出来的人类进化史难以协调。科学家们曾经认为，丹尼索瓦人仅仅分布在东亚，并且看起来跟尼安德特人不太相似。
One alternative explanation is that the humans of Sima de los Huesos were not true Neanderthals, but belonged to the ancestors of both Denisovans and Neanderthals.
另一种解释是，胡瑟裂谷洞穴中的人不是真的尼安德特人，而是属于丹尼索瓦人和尼安德特人的共同祖先。
It is also possible that the newly discovered DNA was passed to both Neanderthals and Denisovans, but eventually disappeared from Neanderthals, replaced by other variants.
还有一种可能，就是尼安德特人和丹尼索瓦人原本都带有这种新发现的DNA，但它最终从尼安德特人的体内消失了，被其他变体所取代。
“It got lost in one lineage but made its way in the other,” suggested Jean-Jacques Hublin, a Max Planck paleoanthropologist who was not involved in the research.
“它在一个人类分支里消失了，但在另外一个分支里留存下来。”马克斯·普朗克研究所的人类学家让-雅克·胡布灵(Jean-Jacques Hublin)说。他没有参与这项研究。
Beth Shapiro, an expert on ancient DNA at the University of California, Santa Cruz, favors an even more radical possibility: that the humans of Sima de los Huesos belong to yet another branch of humans. They might have been a species called Homo erectus, which originated about 1.8 million years ago and became extinct within the last few hundred thousand years.
贝丝·夏皮罗(Beth Shapiro)是加州大学(University of California)圣克鲁兹分校古DNA方面的专家，她倾向于一个更加大胆的假设：胡瑟裂谷的人属于人类的另一个分支。他们可能是一个名为直立人(Homo erectus)的人种，约180万年前出现，几十万年前灭绝。
“The more we learn from the DNA extracted from these fossils, the more complicated the story becomes,” Dr. Shapiro said.
“我们从这些化石DNA中了解的东西越多，这个故事就变得越复杂，”夏皮罗说。
This complicated story has come to light only because of advances over the past 20 years in retrieving ancient DNA.
这个复杂的故事得以曝光，皆因古代DNA提取技术在过去20年中取得的进步。
When an organism dies, its DNA breaks down into smaller and smaller fragments, while also becoming contaminated with the DNA of other species like soil bacteria. So piecing the fossil DNA together is a bit like putting together a jigsaw puzzle created by a sadist.
当一个生物体死亡，其DNA会分解成越来越小的片段，同时也被其他物种的DNA污染，比如土壤细菌的DNA。所以，把化石DNA拼凑在一起，有点像是在玩虐待狂制作的拼图。
In 1997, Svante Paabo of the Max Planck Institute and his colleagues, who had pioneered the techniques for retrieving DNA fragments, published a snippet of DNA from a Neanderthal fossil dating back about 40,000 years. They and other scientists then built on this success by searching for bits of DNA from other Neanderthals.
马克斯·普朗克研究所的斯万·帕博(Svante Paabo)及其同事于1997年率先推出了提取DNA片段的技术，发布了从一块距今约4万年的尼安德特人化石中提取的一段DNA。之后，他们和其他科学家又从其它尼安德特人遗骸中寻找DNA，把这一成果发扬光大。
In 2006, a team of French and Belgian researchers obtained a fragment of Neanderthal DNA dating back 100,000 years, which until now held the record for the oldest human DNA ever found.
2006年，一个法国和比利时研究小组找到了10万年前的尼安德特人DNA片段，是本次之前发现的最早的人类DNA。
Meanwhile, using improved methods, Dr. Paabo, Dr. Meyer and their colleagues assembled a rough draft of the entire Neanderthal genome in 2010.
同时，帕博、迈耶和同事们利用改进的方法，在2010年完成了一份尼安德特人全部基因组的草图。
That discovery shed light on how Neanderthals and humans’ ancestors split from a common ancestor hundreds of thousands of years ago. It also revealed that Neanderthals and humans interbred about 50,000 years ago.
这一发现让我们开始看到，几十万年前尼安德特人是如何从一个共同的人类祖先中分裂出来的。它也表明，尼安德特人与现代人类在大约5五万年前进行了杂交繁殖。
Around the same time as that discovery, Russian collaborators sent the Max Planck team 80,000-year-old fossils they had found in a cave in Siberia called Denisova. When the German scientists sequenced the entire genome from the finger bone of a girl, it turned out to be neither human nor Neanderthal, but from a separate lineage, which Dr. Paabo and his colleagues named Denisovans.
大约在同一时间，俄罗斯的合作者给马克斯·普朗克的团队发来了一些8万年前的化石，它们是在西伯利亚一个叫做丹尼索瓦的山洞里发现的。德国科学​​家对一个女孩的手指骨进行了全基因组测序，发现它竟然既不是现代人类，也不是尼安德特人，而是一个单独的分支，帕博和同事们将其命名为丹尼索瓦人。
Dr. Meyer is hopeful that he and his colleagues will be able to get more DNA from the Spanish fossil, as well as other fossils from the site, to help solve the puzzle they have now stumbled across. “It’s extremely hard to make sense of,” Dr. Meyer said. “We still are a bit lost here.”
迈耶希望能和同事一起，从西班牙的这块化石以及胡瑟裂谷的其他化石中提取到更多的DNA，从而解开他们无意中发现的这个谜题。“要讲通这件事真是太难了，”迈耶说。“我们仍然有点晕头转向。”