BRUNETE, Spain — In the worldwide battle to get dog owners to clean up after their pets, enter Brunete, a middle-class suburb of Madrid fed up with dirty parks and sidewalks.
西班牙布鲁内特——在敦促狗主人清理狗粪的全球性战役中，布鲁内特脱颖而出，这个马德里市郊的中产阶级小镇已经无法忍受肮脏的公园和人行道了。
Some cities hand out steep fines. But in these tough economic times, the mayor here, Borja Gutiérrez, did not much like that idea. Instead, this town engaged a small army of volunteers to bag it, box it and send it back to its owners.
一些城市为此实施重罚。但在这个经济困难时期，这里的镇长博尔哈·古铁雷斯(Borja Gutiérrez)并不太喜欢这个作法。这个小镇征召了一小队志愿者来把狗粪装包、装盒并寄还给其主人。
“It’s your dog, it’s your dog poop,” Mr. Gutiérrez said. “We are just returning it to you.”
“狗是你的，狗屎也是你的，”古铁雷斯说，“我们只是把它送还给你。”
Until now, Brunete’s claim to fame, if it had one, was that it sustained heavy damage in the Spanish Civil War. But these days, this leafy hamlet has made headlines all over Spain. Residents say that strangers take note when they say they live in Brunete.
在这之前，如果说布鲁内特有什么名气，那就是曾在西班牙内战中受到过持续的严重破坏。但这些天，这个树木繁茂的小村镇成了西班牙各地报纸的头条。当地居民说，当他们说自己住在布鲁内特时，陌生人都会留意。
At a recent political event, Mr. Gutiérrez said, the mayor of Madrid sought him out.
古铁雷斯说，在近期的一次政治活动中，马德里市长找上了他。
“She said, ‘Well, it is not many mayors who think sending dog poop to voters is a good idea,' ” Mr. Gutiérrez said. “ ‘How did you dare?’ ”
“她说，‘嗯，没有多少市镇长官敢把狗屎寄给选民的，你是哪来的胆子呢？’”古铁雷斯说。
Mr. Gutiérrez shrugged. After nearly two years in office, he said, he had visited with some 220 citizens in their homes, and the subject of dog owners was the one constant complaint. As spring approached this year, when children started going to the parks again, he decided to try what many here are calling “direct marketing.”
古铁雷斯耸了耸肩。他说，他担任镇长已近两年，已经对约220家镇民进行了家访，狗主人不收拾狗粪的问题是最为常见的投诉主题。在今年春天临近，孩子们再次开始走进公园时，他决定尝试一下被这里的许多人称为“直效营销”的方法。
The dog owners got their packages — white boxes bearing the seal of this town and labeled “lost and found” — within hours.
狗主人在几小时之内就会收到他们的包裹——一个盖有本镇徽章的白盒子，上面标有“物归原主”。
Signing for the curious parcels, they must have been intrigued, though surely unsuspecting.
在签收这些奇怪的包裹时，他们肯定是怀着好奇心，而且毫无戒备。
So far, the boxes seem to be extremely effective compared with Brunete’s earlier campaign, which involved a remote control specimen (very lifelike) that was used around town to get people’s attention. It followed. It banged into shoes. And it generally drew laughs. There was some improvement in behavior. But it did not last long.
到目前为止，这些盒子比起布鲁内特之前的行动来说似乎是非常有效的。之前的行动会用到一个（非常逼真的）遥控狗粪标本，在小镇中到处吸引人们的关注。它会跟着人走，会撞到鞋上，总而言之带来了许多笑声。这对行为有些改善，但没有持续太长时间。
Delivering 147 boxes of the real stuff seems to have produced a far more lasting effect in this town of about 10,000 residents. The mayor guesses a 70 percent improvement even now, several months after the two-week campaign.
然而在147盒真正的狗粪寄回后，在这个约1万居民的小镇，新行动所产生的效果要持久得多。镇长估计，为期两周的运动已经过去了好几个月，但情况还是有七成的改善。
A casual inspection of the town park near City Hall seemed to support his claim. Dog owners without exception were carrying plastic bags, a sight that is still extremely rare across Spain. Most of the owners seemed to find the lost and found campaign funny.
在镇政府旁的城镇公园里进行的一次临时检查似乎支持了他的话。狗主人无一例外地都携带着塑料袋，这一景象在西班牙各地可谓极其罕见。大多数狗主人觉得“物归原主”活动非常有趣。
“I would laugh if it happened to me,” said Anahi Fidalgo, who, bag in hand, was walking his Shih Tzu, Coco. “I would be ashamed. But I would laugh.”
“如果发生在我身上，我会笑出声的，”一手提包、一手牵着他的狮子狗可可(Coco)的安那希·菲达尔戈(Anahi Fidalgo)说。“我会感到羞愧，但我会笑的。”
But not all dog owners agreed with him.
但并非每名狗主人都同意他的观点。
The sting operation worked like this: Volunteers were instructed to watch for negligent dog owners and then to approach their dogs to pet them. After a few flattering remarks about the beauty of said dog, they asked what breed it was. Then they asked the dog’s name.
暗中行动是这样进行的：经过培训的志愿者会寻找不收拾狗粪的狗主人，然后走过去逗他们的狗。在对狗大加赞赏后，他们会问这是什么品种。然后他们会问狗的名字。
Back at City Hall, where more than 500 residents have their pets registered, that was enough information to get to an address.
回到镇政府办公室里，有超过500名居民注册了他们的宠物，因此有足够的信息能找到狗主人的地址。
No one has yet publicly admitted to receiving a package. But these days asking a dog’s name in Brunete is likely to earn you a hard look. One woman walking her dog (it looked like a beagle) refused to give either her name or the dog’s.
目前还没有人公开承认收到过一个狗粪包裹。但在近些天，在布鲁内特去问一只狗的名字大概会让你遭遇不悦的目光。一名遛狗（看上去像只小猎犬）的女性拒绝提供她或她的狗的名字。
“There is a campaign against dogs in this town, and what has this dog ever done?” she said. The woman said emphatically that she had always picked up after the dog.
“这个小镇上发起了一场反对狗的运动，可是这只狗到底做了什么孽呢？”她说。这名女性强调说，她每次都收拾狗粪。
Of course, everybody interviewed insisted the same.
当然，所有的受访者都这么说。
Yet Ignacio Serra, 21, who was the only volunteer willing to talk to a reporter, largely because he does not live here, said it was easy to find owners who turned their backs on their dog’s business. He collected six deposits of poop himself, he said, which he found “pretty disgusting.”
但是，21岁的伊格纳西奥·塞拉(Ignacio Serra)是唯一愿意跟记者交谈的志愿者，这主要是因为他不住在这里。他说，找到不收拾狗屎的狗主人很容易。他自己处理了六堆狗屎，觉得过程“很恶心。”
Still, he said, his first undercover assignment (he popped an imaginary collar for effect) had made him laugh. “I thought it was very funny, and I had nothing else to do that day,” he said.
不过，他说第一次执行卧底任务（他假装立起衣领来制造效果）时觉得很好笑。“我以为这很有趣，那天我也没有别的事情可做，”他说。
Nowadays, he said, his friends sometimes refer to him as “the Poop Hunter.”
他说，现在朋友们有时会叫他“狗屎猎人”。
For two weeks, no one complained, the mayor said. But then he got a few calls. Some people who had been sent the boxes said that City Hall had gone out of its way to humiliate them.
镇长说，这项行动开展的头两个星期里，没人投诉过，但随后他接到了几个电话。有些接到包裹的人说，为了羞辱他们，镇政府办公室太大费周章了。
The mayor said that pretty much everyone in town knew who had gotten a box. He himself could not resist a peek at the list.
镇长说，镇上几乎每个人都知道谁收到了包裹。他自己也会忍不住偷瞄一眼名单。
The idea for the lost and found campaign was not actually his. It came from the advertising agency McCann Erickson. The mayor said his brother, a professor, had students who were interns at the agency last year and did the remote control poop campaign. This year, the mayor went back to McCann looking for something more “aggressive.”
物归原主行动其实不是他自己想出来的，而是麦肯广告公司(McCann Erickson)的创意。镇长说，他当教授的兄弟有一个学生，去年到麦肯公司去当实习生，遥控狗屎的行动就是他做的。今年，镇长再次找到麦肯公司，希望获得一些更有“攻击性”的点子。
At first, Ricardo Rovira, who was part of the design team at the agency, worried that the mayor would not have the courage to go ahead with its direct marketing idea. But he did. McCann also made an amusing public awareness video, produced by Juan José Ocio, largely using actors. It was shown around town before concerts and community meetings.
该公司设计团队成员里卡多·罗维拉(Ricardo Rovira)起初担心，镇长没有胆量来推进这个直效营销行动，但他做到了。麦肯公司还制作了一个增强公众意识的视频，十分有趣，由胡安·何塞·奥西奥(Juan José Ocio)制作，出镜的人大部分都是演员。这个视频在镇子各处的音乐会和社区会议之前播放。
And, as it turns out, the effort was good for business.
事实证明这些工作还帮公司招揽了生意。
“We have gotten some very serious clients because of this campaign,” Mr. Rovira said.
罗维拉说：“由于开展这个行动，我们已经赢得一些非常大的客户。”
Mr. Gutiérrez is not really hopeful that the good behavior will last, though. He is working on ideas for next year. But he won’t discuss them.
但是，古铁雷斯对镇民保持良好行为并不是真的抱有希望。他正在想明年的创意。但他拒绝谈论内容。