ARANDA DE MONCAYO, Spain — The roads leading to this tiny, hilltop village of 200 inhabitants are so narrow and untraveled that no one has ever bothered to paint a white line down the middle.
西班牙阿兰达-德蒙卡约——通往这个只有200个人居住的山顶小村的道路十分狭窄、鲜有人迹，以至于从来没有人费事在路中间刷一条白线。
But lately there has been a bit of international intrigue here. A man, who largely kept to himself but was sometimes seen out at night wandering around with a metal detector, has been arrested.
但是最近这里有点国际阴谋的气氛。一个基本上不怎么跟人接触、但有时被人看到在晚上拿着金属探测器到处晃悠的男子被捕了。
Investigators searched his homes, here and elsewhere, and found more than 4,000 looted antiquities. Most of them, they say, had been dug up from the hill next door, which on close inspection has an unusual array of crumbling stone structures. Two thousand years ago, it seems, a bustling metropolis, called Aratikos, sat atop that hill, only to be destroyed by invading Romans.
调查人员搜查了他在这里和其他地方的居所，发现了4000多件盗挖的文物。他们称，大部分文物是从附近的山上挖出来的，仔细看能看到山上有一排异样而残缺不全的石结构。2000年以前，这座山顶上似乎是一个叫做阿拉迪考斯(Aratikos)的繁华都市，该城后来被入侵的罗马人破坏。
“You and me, we see stones if we look over there,” said Rosario Cabrera, the mayor of Aranda de Moncayo, as she stood on the village ramparts, nodding in the direction of the Aratikos hill. “But an expert sees a doorway.”
阿兰达-德蒙卡约的市长罗萨里奥·卡布雷拉(Rosario Cabrera)站在村子的城墙上，朝着阿拉迪考斯山的方向点了点头，然后说，“你我到那里去看的话，只能看到石头。但专家能看出那是一个门道。”
Ms. Cabrera sees more than that these days. An investigation that began when two bronze helmets appeared for sale at a German auction house has the mayor envisioning a new future for this sleepy village, which is surrounded by grazing sheep. First, she wants a proper archaeological excavation. And then, perhaps, a little museum.
如今卡布雷拉能看到更多。两件铜制头盔出现在一家德国拍卖行里被拍卖后，有关方面展开了调查，这使这名市长开始为这座周围全是牧羊的幽静小村憧憬一个新的未来。首先，她想推动好好进行一次考古挖掘。之后，或许会建设一个小小的博物馆。
“It could bring a lot of tourists here,” said Ms. Cabrera, who was born in Aranda de Moncayo and is a pharmacist in the village next door. But she is fast becoming an enthusiastic expert on the Iberian Celts who settled in these parts and became targets of Roman aggression because the area was rich with copper, silver and iron. Historians believe that the Celtic warriors of Aratikos put up quite a fight, but that the ancient city, which is about two hours north of Madrid, was eventually burned to the ground.
卡布雷拉出生在阿兰达-德蒙卡约，现在在邻村做药剂师，她说，“这会吸引很多游客来到这里。”但她正快速成为一个对曾在这里定居过的伊比利亚凯尔特人(Iberian Celts)着迷的专家，那些人后来成为罗马人攻打的目标，因为这一地区富含铜、银和铁。历史学家相信，阿拉迪考斯的凯尔特勇士曾奋起抵抗，但这座位于马德里以北约两小时路程的古城最终被夷为平地。
Archaeologists say the helmets are a rare and intriguing find that illustrate just how hard it is to keep looted antiquities from being sold to private collectors. Spanish museums currently have only bits and pieces of similar helmets that were found in two other areas of Spain inhabited by Celts. But experts contend that at least 18 helmets have been illegally plundered from Aranda de Moncayo, far more than ever found before, raising questions about why so many were in one place and what role they played in burial and other rituals.
考古学家称，这些头盔是一个罕见而又耐人寻味的发现，这也说明阻止盗挖的文物被贩卖给私人收藏家有多难。目前西班牙各博物馆只收藏了在另外两个凯尔特人居住遗址发现的类似头盔的残片。然而，专家称，至少有18件头盔被人从阿兰达-德蒙卡约非法掠走，比此前发现的要多得多，这带出了一些问题：为什么这么多头盔会出现在一个地方？它们在葬礼和其他仪式中曾扮演什么角色？
“These helmets are like a page torn from a book,” said Martín Almagro-Gorbea, president of Spain’s Royal History Academy, who pressed the Spanish government to pursue the trail of the two helmets that were put up for auction in 2008. “We don’t know the whole story. The worst is that altogether, these helmets are much more interesting than individually. They have a story to tell us.”
西班牙皇家历史学会(Royal History Academy)会长马丁·阿尔马格罗-戈尔韦亚(Martín Almagro-Gorbea)说，“这些头盔就像是从一本书上撕下来的一页。”他曾敦促西班牙政府追踪在2008年被拍卖的那两个头盔的来龙去脉。“我们不了解整个故事。最糟糕的是，这些头盔放在一起要比单独一个一个有意思得多。它们有一个故事要说给我们听。”
Police officials say the arrest in March of Ricardo Granada, 60, is just the first salvo in an ongoing investigation that could involve a cast of international players and take a long time to resolve. “The more intermediaries we investigate, the more leads open up,” said Captain Jose Manuel Vivas, the chief of the Civil Guard unit that is carrying out the investigation.
警方称，3月份逮捕60岁的里卡多·格拉纳达(Ricardo Granada)只是正在进行的调查的第一步，这一调查可能牵涉到一伙国际参与方，并需要很长时间才能水落石出。正在展开调查的国民警卫队(Civil Guard)部门的负责人胡塞·马努埃尔·比瓦斯(Jose Manuel Vivas)队长称，“我们调查的中介越多，得到的线索就越多。”
Mr. Granada was known around town as the “man in the wooden house.” He kept to himself and spent much of his time living in a different village. Once, Ms. Cabrera said, Mr. Granada bought a plot of land at the foot of the hill. But he did not appear to know much about the delicate methods of archaeologists, like using soft brushes to painstakingly dislodge ancient trinkets. He dug up the land using a backhoe and heaved loads of dirt onto the back of a truck, Ms. Cabrera said.
格拉纳达被当地人称作“木屋里的人”。他独自一人，经常住在另一个村子。卡布雷拉称，有一次格拉纳达在这座山脚下买了一块地。但他似乎不怎么了解考古学家所用的那种细腻方法，比如一丝不苟地用软毛刷子刷去文物上的尘土。卡布雷拉说，格拉纳达用一台挖掘装载机在这块地大肆开挖，然后把大堆泥土装到一辆卡车上。
It was experts at the Roman-Germanic Central Museum in Mainz who spotted the helmets at an auction in 2008 and called the police to ask that they be held so Spain could claim them, said Michael Müller-Karpe, a researcher at the museum. But the Spanish authorities did not act, and the helmets were eventually given back to the auction house for sale. Later, Mr. Müller-Karpe found out that Spain had tried to prevent the sale of such helmets in the past and been rebuffed. “They spent a lot of money and didn’t succeed, so maybe that is why they did not pursue this,” he said.
在2008年拍卖会上发现这两个头盔的是美因茨罗马-日耳曼中央博物馆(Roman-Germanic Central Museum)的专家，该博物馆的研究员迈克尔·缪勒-卡普(Michael Müller-Karpe)称，他们叫来警察要求扣留它们，让西班牙政府来认领。但是西班牙官方没有采取行动，这两件头盔最终被交还给拍卖行，由其拍卖。后来，缪勒-卡普发现以前西班牙曾经试图阻止买卖这样的头盔，但没有成功。他说，“他们花了很多钱，却没成功，或许他们因此没有追究这件事。”
Mr. Müller-Karpe said the sale of looted antiquities is a massive business that is hard to control, in part because there are so many archaeological treasures to be found in remote places that are not policed. “You will never have enough policeman in the world to watch over all the possible sites,” he said. “That is why you need to keep an eye on the sales.”
缪勒-卡普说，出售盗挖的文物是一笔很大的生意，很难控制，部分是因为在偏远地区有很多文物宝藏有待发掘，而警方管不了那么多地方。他说，“世界上永远不可能有足够的警察去看管所有可能挖掘出文物的地点。这就是为什么我们需要去监督销售。”
The villagers know that in these hard times, money may be scarce for new projects, but some still dream of a museum that will attract visitors from far and wide.
村民们知道在现在这种艰难时期，要争取到新项目的资金有多难，但是一些人依然希望能有一个博物馆，吸引远近的游客前来参观。
“A lot of people are old here, and they just want peace and quiet,” said Pilar Gonzalez, who runs a small restaurant and hotel on the main square with her husband. “But really a museum, anything, to bring people here would be so beneficial for us.”
在主广场和丈夫一起经营一家小餐馆和旅店的皮拉尔·冈萨雷斯(Pilar Gonzalez)称，“这里有很多老人，他们只想要安宁。但是一个博物馆，或者是能吸引人来这儿的任何东西，都会给我们带来好处。”