ÁGUILAS, Spain — Six years ago, Justo Cruz Rodríguez, who runs a small business here designing signs, was looking for a way to generate a steady, if modest, pension for himself and his father.
西班牙阿吉拉斯——六年前，在这座城市经营着一家标牌设计小店的胡斯托·克鲁兹·罗德里格斯(Justo Cruz Rodríguez)盘算了一下，怎样才能确保自己和父亲能有稳定的养老收入，哪怕不甚丰厚。
So when the government passed a law offering attractive rates for solar energy — and guaranteed them for the next 25 years — he mortgaged his house, his father’s house and even his workshop to install half a dozen rows of solar panels in his father’s garden, with the idea of selling his excess electricity.
因此，当西班牙政府通过了一部法律，将为太阳能发电设定颇具吸引力的价格、并且保证接下来的25年都会实行这一电价时，他抵押了自己的房子、父亲的房子，甚至还有他的小店，在他父亲的花园里安装了六排太阳能板——他打算用它们来发电，并出售多余的电能。
“It seemed so safe,” he said recently. “It was a government guarantee.”
不久前，他说，“这看起来很有保障。因为是政府担保的。”
But the Spanish government has changed its mind. It plans to pay less, a lot less. Under legislation that goes into effect this year, it will drop its per-kilowatt-hour payment system altogether and effectively impose retroactive cuts in payments. It also plans to make solar power producers pay a charge on electricity they generate and use themselves, a measure that angry protesters have named the “sun tax.”
但是如今，西班牙政府改主意了。它打算减少在这方面的支出，而且是大幅削减。根据今年生效的法律，西班牙将彻底取消按千瓦时支付电价补贴的做法，实施有追溯力的削价措施。西班牙还打算让太阳能发电者为他们自己生产并使用的电能付费。愤怒的抗议者将这一费用称为“太阳税”。
Spain has good reason for wanting to take action. It is facing a growing deficit — about $40 billion now — because it has never passed on the true cost of producing energy to its consumers, a problem that has ballooned with the economic crisis. If it does not do something, that deficit will only grow, experts say.
西班牙有充分的理由采取上述行动。由于从未把生产电能的真实成本摊到消费者的头上，该国的赤字正日益扩大——目前大约为400亿美元（约合2400亿元人民币）。随着经济危机的爆发，这个问题日益加剧。专家们说，如果不采取行动，赤字只会进一步增长。
Energy experts across Europe are watching Spain’s actions closely, however, wondering if they amount to folly. Thousands of solar energy investors large and small will doubtless face insolvency, and perhaps just as worrisome, experts say, the new charges for those using their own electricity may set off a rush by owners of solar panels to find ways to sell or use their electricity without reliance on the national grid at all, further reducing its customer base.
不过，欧洲的能源专家都在密切关注西班牙的行动。他们想知道，这些行动是否会引发不良后果。数千名太阳能投资商，无论投资规模大小，毫无疑问将面临破产，而且同样令人担忧的是，专家们说，对于自发电的新增收费可能会令太阳能板所有者纷纷想办法在不依赖国家电网的情况下出售或使用自己的电能，使电网的客户数量进一步减少。
Nor is Spain’s abrupt U-turn likely to go over well with future investors, experts say.
专家们说，西班牙这种突如其来的180度大转弯也不太可能受到未来投资者的青睐。
“When a government changes the terms of existing contracts, that’s a bad move,” said Toby Couture, a solar energy consultant with E3 Analytics in Berlin, who believes that the government will have trouble when it wants to develop public-private partnerships to fund water treatment plants, highways or pipelines, for instance.
柏林E3 Analytics公司的太阳能顾问托比·科图雷(Toby Couture)说，“如果一国政府对已经存在的合同的条款进行更改，那无疑是一种糟糕的做法。”他认为，如果政府这么做了，未来如果再想与私营部门发展伙伴关系，为污水处理厂、公路或油气管线等项目筹资，就会遇到困难。
“There are reasons we live by contract rules,” he said. “If you keep changing the rules of the game, then, after a while, your friends don’t want to play. The government has lost credibility.”
他说，“我们之所以遵守合同规则是有原因的。如果你总是改变游戏规则，长此以往，你的朋友就不想玩了。政府则会失去公信力。”
Spain was once at the forefront of the solar energy movement. It barreled into the renewable-energy business, winning over thousands of investors big and small with its guarantees. Experts say the country has already come close to the European Union’s goal of 20 percent reliance on renewable energy by 2020.
西班牙在发展太阳能发电方面一度走在前列。由于政府的保证吸引了数千家大小投资商，西班牙的可再生能源行业曾发展迅速。专家们说，该国已经接近欧盟的目标，即到2020年，20%的能源供应来自可再生能源。
But experts say the government never expected so much investment and never came up with a way of paying for it. When the economic crisis hit, in 2008 and demand for energy went down, the deficit widened at an even faster rate.
但是专家们表示，政府没有预料到会吸引这么多投资，也没想出为这些投资买单的办法。2008年经济危机爆发之后，能源需求降低，赤字也以更快的速度扩张。
Spanish officials say they have no choice now but to reduce the payments, which were once offered to spur investment in solar energy but are now considered overly generous, especially since the cost of solar panels has dropped precipitously in recent years.
西班牙的官员们说，他们别无选择，只能减少补贴。这些补贴本来是为了刺激太阳能领域的投资，现在西班牙政府认为补贴的数额过于慷慨，尤其是在最近几年太阳能组件的价格大幅下跌之后。
The new government payment system has left thousands of investors, like Mr. Cruz, 51, in a state of shock.
政府新的价格规定让数千家投资商震惊不已，其中就包括现年51岁的克鲁兹。
“I am going to lose everything,” Mr. Cruz said, standing near the panels he thought would make his old age easier. “I will be homeless. At my age, homeless.”
克鲁兹站在他的太阳能板旁说，“我将失去一切，”他本以为这些太阳能板可以让自己安度晚年。“我将要无家可归了。在这把年纪，无家可归。”
The government has proposed cuts to other parts of the energy sector as well, and has taken other steps to reduce the energy deficit, including asking Spaniards to pay more for the electricity they use. But no other measures are as drastic as the reduction of payments to the nearly 60,000 producers of solar power, 50,000 of which are small-time investors like Mr. Cruz, according to the Spanish Solar Power Union.
政府还提出了在能源部门的其他一些领域节流的计划，并采取了多项措施来降低能源赤字，包括提高民众的用电价格。不过，按照西班牙太阳能联合会(Spanish Solar Power Union)的说法，其他任何举措都没有像付给近6万家太阳能发电商的款项削减得这么严重，而其中5万家是克鲁兹这样的小投资者。
“If we did nothing, the only two alternatives would either be bankruptcy of the system or an increase of the price to consumers of more than 40 percent,” said José Manuel Soria, the minister for industry, energy and tourism, defending the government plans shortly after they were announced last summer.
去年夏天政府公布计划后不久，西班牙工业、能源和旅游业大臣何塞·曼努埃尔·索里亚(José Manuel Soria)对其进行了辩护，“如果我们无所作为，那么唯二的选择就是，要么系统整体破产，要么消费者承担的价格提高40%以上。”
The government’s plans have prompted angry accusations across the energy sector here. Solar energy producers feel unfairly singled out and say more savings might be squeezed from other electricity producers. Spain’s other energy producers are offering little sympathy.
政府的计划招致当地能源业上上下下的愤怒声讨。太阳能发电商感到遭遇了不公平的特别对待，并且宣称，可在其他种类的电力生产商那里节约更多钱。而西班牙其余的能源生产商对此几乎无动于衷。
Already, some investors are turning to the courts. Their lawyers say the original law specifically guaranteed a fee of 58 cents for each kilowatt-hour for the next 25 years and guaranteed 80 percent of that for the years thereafter. It also clearly stated that any future changes could affect only new installations.
已有一些投资者诉诸法庭。代表他们的律师称，原有的法律明确保证了未来25年每千瓦时能给付58美分，以及之后的年份每千瓦时给付这个价格的80%。条文还明确指出，未来的任何变更仅适用于新的安装行为。
“The law was drafted in a very sure way,” said Piet Holtrop, a Barcelona lawyer representing about 1,200 investors, ranging from individuals like Mr. Cruz to small town councils. “The people who invested gave it some thought. They were not just putting their money into anything. It was a sound investment.”
“该法案的用语非常明确，”代表约1200个投资者的巴塞罗那律师皮耶·奥尔特罗普(Piet Holtrop)说。他的客户中既有克鲁兹这样的个人，也有小镇政府。“投资者是好好思考过的，不是随便投的钱。这在当时是一项可靠的投资。”
Several large investors have decided to take Spain to the World Bank’s arbitration agency, the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes.
几家大型投资商已决定将西班牙告上世界银行(World Bank)的仲裁机构：国际投资争端解决中心(International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes)。
Government officials declined to answer questions on the subject. They are being widely criticized for coming up with the new plan without consulting any of the affected parties and for changing their mind about several components in the last few months.
政府官员拒绝回答与该话题有关的提问。由于在新方案起草过程中未能咨询受影响的任何一方，过去几个月中又变动了其中的数个部分，官方广受批评。
“The government made a bad situation worse by following a process that lacked consultation and transparency and instead created confusion and uncertainty,” said David Robinson, an economist in Madrid who specializes in energy policy and who is a senior research fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies.
“政府把一件坏事搞得更糟了，程序上缺乏咨询过程和透明度，造成了困惑与不确定性，”驻马德里的经济学家戴维·鲁宾逊(David Robinson)说。他的专长是能源政策，在牛津能源研究所(Oxford Institute for Energy Studies)任高级研究员。
But with a solid majority in Parliament, the government had little trouble getting approval for its main proposals last month, although many details will be clear only when new regulations are published.
然而，执政党在国会中牢牢掌控着多数，没遇到多少麻烦就于上月通过了几项主要计划，尽管其中的不少细节都要等到新法规颁布的时候才会为人所知。