PARIS — Princess Cristina, the younger daughter of King Juan Carlos of Spain, was formally accused of money laundering and tax fraud by a magistrate on Tuesday and was summoned to appear in court on March 8. She is the first close relative of a Spanish monarch in modern history to face the prospect of a criminal trial.
周二，一名预审法官正式指控西班牙国王胡安·卡洛斯(Juan Carlos)的小女儿克里斯蒂娜公主(Cristina)涉嫌洗钱和税务欺诈，并传唤她3月8日出庭。她是现代历史中首名面临刑事审判可能性的西班牙王室近亲。
The accusations arise from a long-running corruption investigation that has also ensnared the princess’s husband, Iñaki Urdangarin, a businessman and former Olympic handball player who is fighting charges of fraud, tax evasion and embezzlement. Both the princess and Mr. Urdangarin, who has been accused of embezzling 6 million euros, about $8.2 million, in government money though a foundation he set up to organize sports conferences, have publicly denied the charges.
这些指控源于一项历时长久的腐败调查。克里斯蒂娜公主的丈夫伊纳基·乌丹加林(Iñaki Urdangarin)也身陷其中。曾参加奥运会手球比赛的乌丹加林目前从商，他正在为欺诈、逃税及挪用公款的指控抗争。乌丹加林被控通过自己为组织体育会议成立的基金会挪用了600万欧元（约合4900万元人民币）的款项。克里斯蒂娜公主和乌丹加林均已公开否认上述指控。
José Castro, an examining magistrate from Palma, Majorca, lodged the accusations against the princess in a 200-page ruling.
来自马略卡岛帕尔马的预审法官何塞·卡斯特罗(José Castro)提交了一份长达200页的裁决书，对克里斯蒂娜公主提出控告。
The widely publicized investigation has badly dented the standing of the royal family with the Spanish public. In a new poll by Sigma Dos, a broad majority said they believe the monarchy mishandled the case, and many of them said they think the king, who is 76, should abdicate.
这项众所周知的调查已经极大地削弱了王室在西班牙公众心中的地位。在Sigma Dos开展的一项新民调中，绝大多数人表示，他们认为王室处理该案件不当，还有很多人称，他们觉得现年76岁的国王应该退位。
The case against Princess Cristina, 48, has been marked by public sparring among legal authorities. Mr. Castro’s ruling challenged the recommendations of an anticorruption prosecutor, who said last month that there was no evidence the princess had committed crimes.
48岁的克里斯蒂娜公主所涉的案件在司法部门中间引发了公开争论。卡斯特罗的决定违背了一名反腐检察官提出的建议。这名检察官上月表示，没有证据表明公主存在犯罪行为。
Mr. Castro, who has been pursuing the investigation for more than three years, accused the princess once before, only to have the accusations set aside by a higher court, which gave more time to Mr. Castro to investigate.
卡斯特罗已经追查了三年多的时间。他曾起诉过克里斯蒂娜公主一次，但上级法院最终放弃了相关指控，给了卡斯特罗更多时间来开展调查。
He has been concentrating on the personal finances of the princess for the last nine months, including her purchase of a mansion in Barcelona.
过去九个月中，卡斯特罗集中精力调查公主的个人财务状况，包括她在巴塞罗那购买的一栋宅邸。
The princess was a director of her husband’s institute, and the couple jointly owned a real estate company, Aizoon, which investigators suspect was a front for money laundering and tax evasion.
克里斯蒂娜公主是其丈夫创立的机构的负责人，夫妇二人还共同拥有房地产公司Aizoon。调查人员怀疑，他们利用该公司洗钱并逃税。