When the residents of Villamartín heard that the landmark castle near their small town in southern Spain was up for restoration, they probably envisaged a thoughtful restoration of the medieval stronghold to something approximating its former glory.
当西班牙南部的维拉马丁的居民听说他们小镇附近的标志性城堡将要进行修复的时候，他们脑海里可能想的是经过细致整修后重显昔日荣光的一座中世纪堡垒。
Instead, what they have been left with is something that many feel more closely resembles a multistory parking garage.
然而，最后留给他们的成品对很多人来说更像是一个多层车库。
The repair of Matrera Castle, perched on a ridge in the Andalusia region, has infuriated locals and provoked the ire of some conservationists. Images of the castle before and after the restoration have recently fueled bemusement and ridicule on social media.
安达卢西亚山脊上的马德雷拉城堡的修复工程激怒了当地人和一些环保人士。修复前后的马德雷拉城堡的图片在社交媒体上引起了不满和嘲笑。
“It’s a barbarity,” one town resident was quoted as saying by the Spanish news channel La Sexta. “I don’t like what they’ve done at all,” said another. “It looks like they’ve used builders instead of restorers,” a third said, using a mild expletive to assess the quality of the work.
“这是野蛮行为，”西班牙新闻频道La Sexta援引一位小镇居民的话。“我一点也不喜欢他们所做的，”另一位说。“他们似乎雇佣了泥瓦匠而不是修补匠，”第三位说，并用了一个表达轻度咒骂的词来评价该施工水准。
Hispania Nostra, a preservationist group that advocates the protection of heritage sites, was similarly unimpressed.
Hispania Nostra，一个致力于遗址保护的团体，同样对此嗤之以鼻。
The work is “truly lamentable” and “has very badly surprised locals and foreigners,” the group’s vice president, Carlos Morenés, said on its website, calling the project an example of the “massacre” of Spanish heritage.
该工程“是彻头彻尾的悲剧”并且“离谱得出乎当地人和游客的意料，”该团体副主席Carlos Morenés在官网上表示，称其是“屠杀”西班牙遗产的样板。
The architect behind the restoration, Carlos Quevedo Rojas, acknowledged that his results were not to everyone’s taste. “I understand the criticism of local people used to seeing the tower look a certain way,” he said in a phone interview, “but the principle objective was to prevent the collapse of the structure.”
主持修复工作的建筑师Carlos Quevedo Rojas承认他的作品并不合每个人的口味。“我理解看惯城堡以前模样的当地人的批评,”他在电话采访中说，“不过修复的主要目标是防止城堡坍塌。”
Mr. Quevedo Rojas said that modern standards for restoring historic buildings discouraged efforts to make them look as they might have when first erected. “You have to distinguish and maintain the historical value and architectural integrity,” he said. “You can’t make the structure have the same appearance as the original. You can’t falsify the appearance. It has to be clear which parts are new and which are old.”
Quevedo Rojas先生表示当今的历史遗迹修复理念并不鼓励使其恢复原模原样。“你应当突出并保留历史价值和结构的完整性，”他说。“你无法做到恢复原样。你不能臆造外观。新旧两部分必须清晰明朗。”
According to Mr. Quevedo Rojas, plans to restore the castle, which is privately owned, were drawn up in 2011, but had to be altered when the north wall collapsed in 2013 because of floods in the area. “In this case, the first objective is to consolidate the structure so it doesn’t suffer further collapses,” he said.
据Quevedo Rojas透露，修复该私人所有的城堡的计划开始于2011年，但在2013年，北面墙壁因当地洪水爆发而坍塌后，方案不得不做出改变。“当务之急是进行建筑加固使其不至于进一步坍塌，”他说。
The project, he said, cost hundreds of thousands of euros — he would not be more precise — and did not involve public funds. Town authorities and the culture and environment departments of the Andalusia regional government approved the project, he said.
该项目花费巨额欧元——他没给出具体数额——且不涉及公款。小镇当局和安达卢西亚地区政府的文化环境部门通过了该项目，他说。
Attempts to repair objects of historical significance have gone awry before in Spain. In 2012, a case of suspected vandalism in a church in the northeastern village of Borja turned out to be among the worst art restoration projects of all time: an 83-year-old widow and amateur painter admitted having tried to restore a nearly century-old fresco of Jesus crowned with thorns.
修复历史遗迹的糟糕尝试在西班牙有过先例。2012年，在博尔哈东北部村庄的教堂里所发生的一桩涉嫌破坏的事件被认为是历史上最惨不忍睹的艺术修复举措之一：一位83岁的寡妇，同时也是一位业余画家，承认试图修复一幅近一个世纪之久的耶稣头戴荆棘的壁画。
That story had a somewhat miraculous ending — the botched restoration was so appalling that the church has become a tourist attraction.
此事结局令人乍舌——弄砸了的壁画如此震撼以至于该教堂成为了一个旅游景点。
While the renovated Matrera Castle seems unlikely to enjoy the same fate, the makeover does have its defenders. José María Gutiérrez López, the director of Villamartín’s small history museum, said critics were simply ill informed.
虽然相同的运气不太可能会降临到翻新后的马德雷拉城堡上，还是有人支持本次修复工作。José María Gutiérrez López，维拉马丁的小型历史博物馆馆长，说批评者只是带有偏见而已。
“I think the criticism comes from people without any knowledge of the criteria of modern restoration,” he said. “They wanted it to be restored to the same condition as it was before, but that’s not what happens.”
“我觉得批评来自那些不了解当代修复标准的人，”他说。“他们想它被修复到和以前一样，事实上并不是那样的。”
Mr. Gutiérrez López, who has written a book about the castle and the history of the surrounding area but was not involved in the repairs, expressed surprise at the negative attention it has received.
Gutiérrez López先生曾经写了一本有关该城堡及其周围地区的历史的书。虽然没有参与此次修复，但他对它所受到的负面评价感到吃惊。
“When there was the collapse in 2013, we couldn’t even get 100 signatures together to restore the building,” he said. “Now there’s been this restoration, there’s been an outcry. It makes me very frustrated.”
“当2013年倒塌发生的时候，我们想要修复它却连100个签名都收不到，”他说。“现在修复好了，却引发了众怒，这使我很沮丧。”
“It looks fine to me,” he added. “I don’t think it’s out of place at all.”
“在我看来还行，”他补充说。“我一点也不觉得它唐突。”