Fossils of the earliest bear recorded in the Iberian Peninsula have been discovered in Spain, and researchers believe it was the oldest ancestor of the panda bear.
西班牙出土了一种熊类动物的化石，研究人员认为，它是熊猫最早的祖先。这也是伊比利亚半岛出土记录中最古老的熊类化石。
Researchers found 11.6 million-year-old fossil jaws and teeth that bear a strong resemblance to the giant panda, which is now found solely in China. Researchers from Spain have named the ancient bear Kretzoiarctos and reported their findings in the current issue of the journal PLoS One.
研究人员发现了已有1160万年历史的颌骨和牙齿化石，其特征与大熊猫极为相似，而目前只有中国出产大熊猫。西班牙的研究人员将这种古老的熊命名为“Kretzoiarctos”（该词是克赖措伊熊类的意思，以曾经发现其他已灭绝大熊猫物种的米克洛什·克赖措伊(Miklos Kretzoi)的名字命名——译注），并在最新一期的《公共图书馆·综合》(PLoS One)杂志上发表了研究报告。
“The origin of the lineage may not have been located in China, but in the humid forests of Europe during the middle Miocene,” said Juan Abella, a paleontologist at the National Museum of Natural Sciences in Madrid, and the study’s first author.
马德里国家自然科学博物馆(National Museum of Natural Sciences)的古生物学家、研究报告第一作者胡安·阿韦利亚(Juan Abella)表示，“这个熊种的起源地可能不是中国，它们于中新世中期出现在欧洲潮湿的森林里。”
During the middle Miocene, northeastern Spain, where the fossils were discovered, was humid and moderately warm, Dr. Abella said.
阿韦利亚表示，中新世中期，西班牙东北部是一片潮湿、适度温暖的地区，这些化石就是在那里发现的。
Kretzoiarctos was an omnivorous species and likely ate a wide variety of food, including meat, fruit, plant stems and leaves. The fossil jaws and teeth that were found indicate that the bear was also able to eat very tough plant material; today’s panda is the only living bear with these unique dietary habits.
Kretzoiarctos是一种杂食物种，其食物种类可能很广，其中包括肉、水果，及植物茎叶。出土的颌骨和牙齿化石说明这个熊种也能吃较硬的植物，而如今的熊猫是现存熊类中唯一拥有这些独特饮食习惯的熊种。
The researchers believe that Kretzoiarctos was about the size of a sun bear and weighed approximately 130 pounds. The giant pandas of today are about double this weight. Studying the ancient bear could help scientists understand how the giant panda evolved to feed on hard bamboo stems, Dr. Abella said.
研究人员认为，Kretzoiarctos与马来熊大小差不多，约有130磅重。现在的大熊猫约是它的两倍重。阿韦利亚表示，研究这个古老熊种会帮助科学家了解，大熊猫是如何进化到以坚硬竹竿为食的。