The train driver did little to hide his taste for speed. He posted a photograph of a locomotive speedometer needle stuck at 200 kilometers, or about 125 miles, per hour on Facebook last year, boasting that the reading “has not been tampered with” and openly relishing the idea of racing past the authorities.
这名火车司机毫不掩饰他对速度的追求。去年，他在Facebook上贴了一张照片，照片上的火车速度表指针显示每小时200公里，约合每小时125英里。他炫耀说，这个读数“可不是改过的”，公然为在当局面前飞速驶过而沾沾自喜。
“Imagine what a rush it would be traveling alongside the Civil Guard, and passing them so that their speed traps go off,” he wrote, in all capitals. “Hehe, that would be quite a fine for Renfe, hehe,” referring to his employer, the Spanish rail company.
他用清一色的大写字母写道，“想想看吧。在国民警卫队(Civil Guard)旁边飞驰而过，触发他们的速度监控装置。呵呵，西班牙国家铁路公司(Renfe)可是会被被狠狠地罚一笔的，呵呵。”他指的是自己的雇主。
Now that train driver, Francisco José Garzón Amo, a veteran with more than three decades of experience, is under investigation by a judge in connection with one of Europe’s worst rail accidents in recent years.
这名司机叫做弗朗西斯科·何塞·加尔松·阿莫(Francisco José Garzón Amo)，已有超过三十年的驾龄。现在，他正在因为涉入欧洲近年来最惨重的火车事故而被一名法官调查。
In a chilling video from a security camera, the passenger train he was driving rounded a curve at high speed on Wednesday night, tumbling violently off the track, slamming against a curved wall and piling up in a twisted wreck. Eighty people were killed.
监控摄像头录下的一段令人不寒而栗的视频显示，周三晚，他驾驶的客运列车高速经过一个转弯，随即剧烈地翻下铁轨，撞上一堵弧形墙壁，变成了一堆歪歪扭扭的残骸。80人因此丧生。
On Thursday, Spanish news media reported that the driver had said the train’s speed had been about 120 miles per hour, more than double the limit in the stretch of track where the train derailed. On the day of the wreck, he took over from another driver just 60 miles before the crash, according to Spanish news reports.
周四，西班牙媒体报道称，司机说火车当时的速度约为每小时120英里，是火车失事那段铁轨限速的两倍多。西班牙新闻报道称，事故当日，他在离事故现场只有60英里的地方才从另一名司机手里接过了驾驶职责。
The train was almost full, carrying more than 200 passengers and merrymakers returning to the region for a special holiday on Thursday. July 25 is the feast day for St. James the Apostle, the patron saint of Spain, who for centuries has inspired pilgrims to walk El Camino de Santiago, or the Way of St. James. The pilgrimage has had a burst of popularity in recent years, drawing walkers from around the world.
火车上几乎是满的，载有200多名乘客，以及返回该地区参加周四特殊节庆的度假者。7月25日是西班牙守护圣徒圣詹姆斯(St. James the Apostle)的斋戒日，几个世纪以来，圣詹姆斯一直在激励朝圣者去走圣地亚哥朝圣古道。这种朝圣活动最近几年突然变得很流行，吸引着世界各地的朝圣者。
After the crash, the city of Santiago de Compostela canceled its extensive celebration and the authorities urged people to donate blood. Thousands made a very different kind of pilgrimage to the site of the disaster, watching as rescuers used cranes and trucks to hoist the engines of the wrecked train. All — children, teenagers and older people — stood in funereal silence.
事故发生后，圣地亚哥-德孔波斯特拉市取消了该市的大型庆祝活动，官方还敦促人们献血。数以千计的人赶往灾难现场，完成了一次截然不同的朝圣之旅。他们看着救援人员使用吊车及卡车把撞毁列车的引擎吊了起来，男女老少都站着默哀。
Nearby, in a building where an information center had been set up, police officers kept the victims’ families from the public eye. Some walked around the building in tears, hugging and comforting one another, while others grew frustrated waiting to see their loved ones.
附近的一座大楼里设了一个信息中心，警察让遇难者的家属处于公众视线之外。一些人流着泪围着大楼行走，互相拥抱，彼此安慰，另一些人则绝望地等着看到自己的亲人。
“Now, at 9.30 p.m., is when they allowed us to go and see our family member,” said María, a relative of a victim who did not want her full name used. “Twenty-four hours waiting, in these conditions. That’s too much.”
遇难者家属玛利亚(María)说，“现在都晚上9：30了，他们才让我们去看我们的家人。我们就这样等了二十四个小时。真让人受不了。”她不想透露全名。
Most high-speed lines that are part of the European rail traffic system are covered by a GPS-based surveillance network that constantly monitors trains’ speed and automatically brakes them at speed limits.
欧洲铁路交通系统的多数高速铁路都覆盖着GPS监控网络，一直监控着列车的速度，并且会在列车超速时自动刹住列车。
Slower trains and trains crossing urban areas in Spain and other countries use a less intrusive system that warns the driver with sound and lights at excessive speeds, but does not automatically brake the train, according to María Carmen Palao, a spokeswoman for Spain’s ADIF rail infrastructure company.
西班牙铁路基础设施公司(ADIF)的女发言人玛利亚·卡门·帕劳(María Carmen Palao)说，较慢的列车，以及经过西班牙和其他国家城市地区的列车，用的都是干涉程度较低的系统，这种系统会用声音和灯光警告超速列车的司机，但不会自动刹住火车。
The accident, she said, took place two to three miles outside the station at Santiago de Compostela, in the “transition zone” between the two systems. The wreck occurred on the Galicia line, run by the rail operator Renfe and opened in 2011.
她说，这次事故发生在圣地亚哥-德孔波斯特拉火车站外2到3英里处，处于前述两个系统之间的“过渡地带”。事故发生在加利西亚线路上，该线路于2011年开通，由西班牙国家铁路公司运营。
The train’s driver survived the accident with light injuries and is under police guard, although he has not been formally arrested. He is “lucid and able to speak,” said Carmen Prieto, a spokeswoman for the Spanish Development Ministry.
火车司机逃过了这次事故，只是受了轻伤。他已被警方拘押，尽管仍未被正式逮捕。他“神志清醒，能够说话”，西班牙发展部(Spanish Development Ministry)女发言人卡门·普列托(Carmen Prieto)说。
The Spanish newspaper El País reported that people at the train company said that alcohol had not been found in the driver’s system, but the security video showing the train barreling into the turn and abruptly careening off the rails quickly raised concerns that he was traveling too fast.
据西班牙报纸《国家报》(El País)报道，火车公司的人称，司机体内并未发现酒精，但安全监控视频显示火车快速转弯并突然脱轨，致使人们疑心他车速过快。
Even in his Facebook message, posted in 2012 but removed late Thursday morning, Mr. Garzón elicited some astounded comments from friends.
就连加尔松发的一些Facebook讯息都曾经引发朋友们的震惊评论。这些讯息在2012年发布，但已在周四将近中午的时候被删除。
“Dude, you’re going full speed, braaaaake,” one commenter wrote.
“老兄，你已经快达到全速了，刹——车，”一名评论者写道。
“Christ, you’re doing 200km/h,” another said.
“老天，你竟然开到了每小时200公里，”另一名评论者说。
Outpourings of sympathy for Wednesday’s disaster came from all corners, including the White House. “On behalf of the American people, we offer our deepest sympathies and condolences,” President Obama said in a statement. The State Department confirmed Thursday that one American died and five were injured in the accident.
周三的灾难收到了来自世界各个角落的同情声音，包括美国白宫在内。“我们代表美国人民表达我们最深切的同情和慰问，”奥巴马总统在一份声明中称。美国国务院周四确认，事故中有一名美国人死亡，5名美国人受伤。
In a letter to Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, the president of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, said he was “deeply saddened” by the accident. “Such a serious accident, with so many people dead and injured, is a tragedy for Spain and provokes such deep emotions,” he said.
在一封给西班牙首相马里亚诺·拉霍伊(Mariano Rajoy)的信中，欧盟委员会主席若泽·曼努埃尔·巴罗佐(José Manuel Barroso)说，他对这次事故“深感悲哀”。“事故如此严重，伤亡如此众多，对西班牙来说是场惨剧，让人非常悲痛，”他说。
Mr. Rajoy, who was born in the region, visited the scene and declared three days of official mourning. King Juan Carlos and his wife, Sofía, also rushed to Santiago de Compostela.
拉霍伊出生在事故发生地区，他视察了事故现场，并宣布举行为期3日的官方悼念。国王胡安·卡洛斯(Juan Carlos)及王后索菲娅(Sofía)也赶到了圣地亚哥-德孔波斯特拉。
“In the face of a tragedy such as just happened in Santiago de Compostela on the eve of its big day, I can only express my deepest sympathy as a Spaniard and a Galician,” Mr. Rajoy said in a written statement.
“在圣地亚哥-德孔波斯特拉迎来盛大节日的前夜，居然会发生这样的悲剧，作为一名西班牙人和加利西亚人，我只能表达我最深切的同情，”拉霍伊在一份书面声明中称。
The eight-car train, which left Madrid at 3 p.m. on Wednesday, was traveling to the coast when it derailed around 8:44 p.m., according to the clock on the security video. Witnesses described the destruction as the dead were taken to a temporary morgue. “The road is full of cadavers,” a radio reporter, Xaime López, said on the station Cadena Ser. “It’s striking: you almost can’t even count them.”
根据安全监控视频上的时钟，这列8节车厢的火车是周三下午3点离开马德里驶向海滨地区的，出轨的时间则是晚上8点44分左右。死者被移到临时停尸房后，目击者们描述了破坏的情况。“公路上满是尸体，”广播记者赛梅·洛佩斯(Xaime López)在卡德纳·赛电台(Cadena Ser)的报道中说。“场面触目惊心，你几乎连数目都无法清点。”