A high-speed passenger train that was reportedly traveling at more than double the speed limit when it derailed just outside a station in northwest Spain killed at least 77 of those on board, according to judicial sources quoted by news agencies on Thursday.
媒体在周四援引司法部门消息报道，一辆高速客运火车在西班牙西北部地区的一个火车站外脱轨，致使车上至少78人死亡，据报道，当时火车的速度超过限速的1倍以上。
The train, carrying 218 passengers and 4 crew members, was traveling between Madrid and Ferrol when it derailed at 8:41 p.m. on Wednesday, the Spanish national train company Renfe said in a statement. It was about two miles from the station in the city of Santiago de Compostela.
西班牙国家铁路公司(Renfe)在一份声明中表示，这趟从马德里开往费罗尔的火车，周三晚8:41分出轨，当时车上载有218名乘客和近30名乘务人员。事发地点距离圣地亚哥-德孔波斯特拉市火车站约3公里。
Citing unidentified sources, the Web site of the Spanish newspaper El País reported that the train had been traveling at 110 miles per hour, but that the speed limit for the stretch of track where the derailment occurred was 50. The train derailed with such force that one car leapt 15 feet in the air and 45 feet from the tracks, the newspaper said.
西班牙《国家报》(El País)网站援引一位不明身份的消息源称，出轨前火车的行驶速度为每小时190公里，但出轨事发地点那段铁轨的限速为每小时80公里。该报说，火车出轨时的冲力极大，以至于一节车厢被抛到约4.5米的高度，之后落在距离铁轨约14米的地方。
Seventy-three people died at the accident site in the northern Spanish region of Galicia and four died later, a spokeswoman for Galicia’s Supreme Court said on Thursday morning, according to Reuters. Judges in Spain are responsible for recording deaths.
据路透社(Reuters)报道，加利西亚地区最高法院(Galicia’s Supreme Court)一名发言人周四早上说，有73人在事故现场死亡，还有5人后来身亡，事故发生地点位于西班牙北部的加利西亚地区。在西班牙，法官负责登记死亡人数。
Renfe said in a statement early Thursday that its technicians and those from Adif, the state-owned railroad company that reports to the Ministry of Public Works, had arrived to help in the rescue, repair tracks and “clarify the causes of the accident.”
国家铁路公司周四早些时候在一份声明中表示，该公司和国有的铁路基础设施公司(Adif)的技术人员已经赶往现场帮助援救工作、修复铁轨，以及“搞清楚事故发生的原因”。铁路基础设施公司归属于公共工程部(Ministry of Public Works)。
Pictures from the scene showed the train lying zigzagged on its side across the tracks. At least one car had been torn open and was jammed on top of another. What appeared to be bodies were covered in makeshift blankets by the side of the tracks as emergency workers struggled to pull the dead and injured from the train’s windows as night fell.
来自事故现场的图片显示，脱轨的客车呈一串之字形侧翻在铁轨上。至少有一节车厢被撕裂，摞在另一节车厢上。铁轨旁，看似有被用毯子临时遮盖起来的尸体，随着夜幕的降临，紧急救援工人在竭尽全力地将死者和伤者从车箱的窗户里拖出来。
“The road is full of cadavers,” a radio reporter, Xaime López, said on the station Cadena Ser. “It’s striking: you almost can’t even count them.”
Cadena Ser电台记者海默·洛佩斯(Xaime López)在广播中说，“路上全是尸体。太惊人了：几乎数不清。”
Precise casualty figures were not immediately available but El País, citing local officials, said more than 100 people were injured, 10 to 20 of them seriously. The derailment occurred on the eve of an annual religious and cultural festival in Santiago de Compostela that attracts hordes of visitors and pilgrims, according to the region’s tourist board.
具体伤亡人数还不能马上获知，但《国家报》援引来自当地官员的消息称，有100多人受伤，其中有10到20人伤势严重。据当地旅游局称，事故发生在圣地亚哥-德孔波斯特拉一年一度的宗教和文化节的前夜，该庆祝活动每年吸引成群的游客和朝圣者前来此地。
The Spanish government is working from the assumption that the derailment was an accident, The Associated Press reported, not an act of terrorism. A total of 191 people were killed in the 2004 bombing by Islamist extremists of four commuter trains in Madrid.
美联社(Associated Press)消息称，西班牙政府正在以这次出轨是意外事故、而不是恐怖主义袭击的假设，来进行下一步的工作。2004年伊斯兰极端主义分子曾在马德里4辆通勤火车上引爆炸弹，导致191人丧生。
A passenger, Sergio Prego, told Cadena Ser that the train had jumped off the tracks at a curve. “It was a disaster,” he said. “I was lucky.”
一位名叫塞尔西奥·普雷戈(Sergio Prego)的乘客对Cadena Ser电台说，火车在拐弯处跳出铁轨，他说，“这是场灾难。我很幸运。”
Another passenger, Ricardo Montesco, who was in the second car, told a local radio station: “It happened very fast. At a curve, the train started rolling over, some cars were on top of others and a lot of people were trapped at the bottom. We had to get out from underneath the cars and we realized the train was on fire.”
另一名坐在第二节车厢里的乘客理查德·蒙泰斯克(Ricardo Montesco)对当地一家电台说，“事故发生得非常快。火车在拐弯的地方开始侧翻，有些车厢被抛在其他车厢上，很多人被压在车厢底下。我们只好从车厢底下爬出来，之后意识到车箱着火了。”
If the initial casualty estimates hold, the accident will rank among Europe’s most deadly rail crashes in recent years. In 2006, an underground metro train in Valencia, Spain, derailed and killed 41 people. Excessive speed on a curve was cited as a factor.
如果初估的伤亡人数保持不变的话，这起事故将是近年来欧洲发生在最致命的火车事故之一。2006年，西班牙瓦伦西亚一辆地铁出轨，造成41人死亡。列车在弯道行使时速度过快被认为是那次事故的原因之一。