MADRID — The Spanish monarchy was dragged deeper into a corruption case on Wednesday when Princess Cristina was charged with tax fraud and money laundering by a judge investigating whether her husband and business associates embezzled millions in public funds earmarked for sports events.
马德里——本周三，一名法官指控西班牙公主克里斯蒂娜(Princess Cristina)涉嫌税务欺诈和洗钱，令西班牙王室被进一步卷入这起腐败案，这名法官正在调查克里斯蒂娜公主的丈夫及商业伙伴是否挪用了数百万欧元的体育赛事专项公共基金。
The royal household had hoped to contain the scandal to the princess’s husband, Iñaki Urdangarin, who has been at the heart of the corruption investigation.
西班牙王室曾希望把丑闻局限在公主的丈夫伊纳基·乌丹加林(Iñaki Urdangarin)一人身上，他一直是此次腐败调查的核心。
The charges come less than a week after Cristina’s brother ascended to the throne as King Felipe VI, succeeding his father, King Juan Carlos I. In his proclamation speech in Parliament on Thursday, Felipe promised lawmakers integrity and transparency as part of “a renovated monarchy for a new time.” Neither his sister nor his father attended the ceremony.
在克里斯蒂娜受到指控不到一周前，她的弟弟刚刚继承父亲胡安·卡洛斯一世(King Juan Carlos I)的王位，成为费利佩六世(King Felipe VI)。在周四于议会发表的昭告演说中，费利佩向议员们承诺，廉正透明将是“历经革新的新时代君主制度”不可或缺的组成部分。他的姐姐和父亲都没有参加这个仪式。
Cristina and her husband have denied wrongdoing in previous court appearances and are expected to appeal the latest charges.
在出席之前的庭审时，克里斯蒂娜及丈夫均否认自己有违法行为，预计他们会对最近的指控提出上诉。
The investigation has already lasted three years and has been led by José Castro, a judge based in Palma, on the Mediterranean island of Majorca. It has centered on whether Mr. Urdangarin used his royal credentials to secure inflated sports contracts from regional politicians for a foundation that he chaired, and then siphoned off millions to send to companies and offshore accounts that he and his business associates controlled.
主持此次调查的法官何塞·卡斯特罗(José Castro)来自地中海上的马略卡岛的帕尔马，本次调查已经持续了三年。调查的核心是乌丹加林是否利用了王室身份，以虚高价格从地区政客手中为自己掌握的基金会博取体育赛事合同，然后再把所吸纳的数百万赃款转入自己及生意伙伴控制的公司和离岸账户。
Judge Castro filed fraud charges against 16 people on Wednesday, including Mr. Urdangarin; Diego Torres, his main former business associate; and several officials from the regional governments of the Balearic Islands and Valencia, which awarded the suspicious sports contracts. No date has yet been set for the start of the trial.
卡斯特罗法官在周三对16人提出了诈骗指控，其中包括乌丹加林；他之前的主要生意伙伴迭戈·托里斯(Diego Torres)；几名巴利阿里群岛和巴伦西亚地方政府官员，是他们把这些可疑的赛事合同交给了前述嫌疑人。
In a 167-page filing, Judge Castro said there was sufficient evidence that Cristina profited personally and helped her husband with his suspect business activities. Mr. Urdangarin faces six separate sets of charges relating to fraud, tax evasion and embezzlement of public money.
在长达167页的指控中，卡斯特罗法官表示，有足够的证据显示克里斯蒂娜曾中饱私囊，为丈夫可疑的商业活动提供支持。乌丹加林还面临其他六组和欺诈、逃税及挪用公款相关的指控。
Mercedes Coghen Alberdingk-Thijm, a former field hockey player who led Madrid’s failed bid to host the 2016 Summer Olympic Games, was also among those formally charged with fraud and misappropriation of public funds.
前曲棍球球员梅塞德斯·科亨·阿尔伯丁克-蒂赫姆(Mercedes Coghen Alberdingk-Thijm)也被正式起诉，罪名是欺诈、挪用公共基金。蒂赫姆没能带领马德里赢得2016夏季奥运会的主办权。
The royal household has long tried to distance itself from Mr. Urdangarin, who has denied that his wife and other members of the royal family had any direct involvement in the management of his foundation, the Nóos Institute. Mr. Urdangarin, a former Olympic handball player, became the duke of Palma in 1997 upon marrying Cristina.
西班牙王室一直设法与乌丹加林保持距离，他也否认妻子及其他王室成员曾直接参与其基金会努斯研究所(Nóos Institute)的管理工作。曾是西班牙奥运手球队队员的乌丹加林于1997年与克里斯蒂娜成婚，成为帕尔马公爵。
Earlier this month, King Juan Carlos, 76, said his surprise decision to abdicate in favor of his 46-year old son was motivated by a desire to allow the next generation to “move to the front line.”
本月早些时候，76岁的国王胡安·卡洛斯(Juan Carlos)表示，他将让位于46岁的儿子，他做出这个令人震惊的决定是为了使下一代能够“走到前面”。
However, the monarchy’s problems have stretched beyond the inquiry into Mr. Urdangarin’s business dealings. Juan Carlos’s own popularity had already slumped as a result of his misjudgment. In April 2012, the king was forced to issue an unprecedented apology after going on an African elephant-hunting vacation that was seen as an affront to Spanish citizens enduring belt-tightening in a recession.
但除了乌丹加林的商业交易遭到调查，王室还面临其他问题。由于自己的错误判断，胡安·卡洛斯的支持率急剧下降。2012年4月，国王在赴非洲度假，完成猎杀大象之旅后，发布了前所未有的道歉声明，人们认为此举冒犯了正在经济衰退中勒紧裤腰带的西班牙民众。
Royalists are hoping that Felipe, who has been personally untainted by the recent royal scandals, will help restore the image of the monarchy.
保皇派希望费利佩(Felipe)能帮助恢复王室的形象。费利佩个人没有受到最近的王室丑闻的影响。
Separately, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said on Monday that within about 15 days, Juan Carlos would be granted a special protected legal status because, under Spain’s Constitution, only the head of state is guaranteed full legal immunity. The special status, which is also granted to some other public officials and retired lawmakers, will ensure that Juan Carlos can be tried only by the country’s highest courts.
周一，西班牙首相马里亚诺·拉霍伊(Mariano Rajoy) 表示，在大约15天内，胡安·卡洛斯将获得特殊的法律保护身份，因为根据西班牙宪法，只有国家元首拥有法律豁免权。这种特殊身份将确保胡安·卡洛斯只能受到该国最高法院的审判，其他一些公职人员和退休议员也获得了这种身份。