Virginia Irurita wants travelers to go to Spain and enjoy a long lunch; make that many long lunches. As the founder of Made for Spain, a custom trip planner in Madrid, she creates itineraries that show travelers the best of her country; savoring a lengthy midday meal as the locals do is one of her top recommendations.
弗吉尼娅·伊鲁里塔(Virginia Irurita)想让游客们去西班牙享用一顿长午餐，或者说享用很多顿长午餐。作为马德里个性旅行规划网站Made for Spain的创始人，她设计了一些路线，向游客展示该国最好的部分。像当地人一样享用一顿漫长的午餐是她强烈推荐的活动之一。
Spain is already a popular spot, but the strength of the dollar against the euro means it is even more so now. Ms. Irurita, 52, has plenty of insight on how to take advantage of the lower prices, what places tourists should not miss and how to experience a getaway to her homeland like a Spaniard.
西班牙本来就是热门旅游目的地，随着美元对欧元汇率上涨，现在它更热门了。52岁的伊鲁里塔对以下问题有很多高见：如何利用较低的价格，游客不应该错过哪些地方，以及如何像西班牙人那样体验在她的祖国度假的感受。
Following are edited excerpts from a conversation with Ms. Irurita.
以下是与伊鲁里塔对话的剪辑浓缩版。
What can travelers to Spain expect this year when it comes to prices?
问：在价格方面，今年前往西班牙的游客们可以期待什么？
They’ll definitely be able to experience more than they would have last year without spending more. They can take additional tours, do more shopping and go to high-end restaurants they might not want to usually splurge on.
答：跟去年相比，花同样的钱，他们肯定能体验更多。他们能去参观更多地方，买更多东西，去一些他们通常不会去挥霍的高档餐馆。
What else would you like travelers to know?
问：你还想让游客们了解哪些情况？
This is a country that has something for everyone, whether you’re a beach lover, culture lover or serious wine drinker. Also, we truly enjoy life and are social animals and want people who come here to embrace that laid-back lifestyle.
答：不管谁来这个国家，都能找到自己喜欢的东西，不管你是沙滩爱好者、文化爱好者还是认真的葡萄酒品鉴者。另外，我们西班牙人真的喜欢享受生活，我们是社会动物，想让人们来这里享受这种慵懒的生活方式。
How exactly does one do that?
问：具体怎么享受呢？
Sit down for a long lunch and make it your biggest meal of the day. Enjoy a glass of wine and take a short siesta after you eat. Hang out at a cafe in the afternoon and mingle with locals. Instead of rushing around to every attraction, walk everywhere as we love to do. You might see fewer sights, but you’ll be more immersed in the scene.
答：坐下来，享用一顿长午餐，让它成为一天中最重要的一餐。享用一杯葡萄酒，吃完之后打个盹。下午去泡咖啡馆，和当地人交流。不要匆忙赶去每个旅游景点，而是像我们这样到处走走。你看到的景点可能会少一点，但你能更多地沉浸在这种氛围里。
Is there a certain time of the year you recommend visiting?
问：你是否建议在某些季节来旅游？
The spring and fall. Winters are cold and summers are quite hot. Also, the beaches get very busy. Traveling off-season is a luxury because you won’t have the crowds or weather working against you.
答：春季和秋季。冬天太冷，夏天太热。而且，夏天海滩的人太多。在淡季旅游是一种奢侈的享受，因为那时不会哪里都是人，也没有糟糕天气的困扰。
What is the next must-visit city?
问：下一个必游城市是什么？
Madrid. Tourists tend to linger in Barcelona and pass quickly through Madrid, but it is booming and worth a longer stay. There are food markets like San Miguel and Platea, museums like the Romanticism, which was just renovated, and new hotels and boutiques like the ones in the De las Letras area. There is always something new to discover. Just in March, the remains of Cervantes, who wrote “Don Quixote,” were found, and now there are plans in the works to have travelers visit his tomb.
答：马德里。游客们喜欢在巴塞罗那逗留，而匆忙经过马德里，但是它正在蓬勃发展，值得多停留一段时间。这里有食品市场（比如圣米格尔[San Miguel]和Platea）、博物馆（比如刚整修的Romanticism）以及新酒店和时装精品店（比如德拉斯莱特拉斯区[De las Letras]的那些）。总有一些新东西供你去发现。就在今年3月，《堂吉诃德》(Don Quixote)的作者塞万提斯(Cervantes)的遗骨被发现，现在参观他的墓地的游览计划正在酝酿中。
Are there any unsung but worthwhile places to visit in the country?
问：这个国家有没有一些未被赞颂但值得游览的地方？
The northern part around the Asturias region is our best kept secret and where Spaniards vacation. Forget going to the beaches on the Mediterranean; the ones here are long with soft, white sand and beautiful, clean water. The area also has the Picos de Europa mountain range, spectacular scenery and amazing food, including mountain cheeses and all sorts of beef. Throw in the great prices, and it’s unbeatable.
答：阿斯图里亚斯地区(Asturias)北部是我们保守得最好的秘密，是西班牙人的度假地。忘了地中海的海滩，来这里吧。这里的海滩很长，有着柔软的白沙和美丽干净的海水。这里还有欧罗巴山(Picos de Europa)、壮观的景色和美味的食物，包括山地奶酪和各种牛肉。再加上价格便宜，这里简直无与伦比。
Is there a clichéd touristy experience you wish travelers would avoid?
问：有没有什么老套的游客体验是你希望他们能避免的？
People think that tapas are Spanish and want to eat them wherever they go. Of course you can find them everywhere, but tapas are only from Madrid and Andalusia. They are not part of the culture in Barcelona, where the locals have an aperitivo or vermouth with some pickled vegetables, or in San Sebastián or Bilbao, where pintxos — thin baguette slices with different toppings like ham, vegetables and crab meat mixed with red pepper — are the tradition.
答：人们认为，塔帕斯(tapas)是西班牙特色菜，所以不管走到哪儿都想吃它们。当然，你在哪儿都能找到它们，但是实际上它们只是马德拉和安达卢西亚(Andalusia)的传统。它们不是巴塞罗那文化的一部分，那里的人喜欢喝开胃酒或味美思酒(vermouth)配腌菜；也不是塞巴斯蒂安(Sebastián)或毕尔巴鄂(Bilbao)文化的一部分，那里的传统是用法棍面包薄切片搭配不同的浇头，比如火腿、蔬菜、蟹肉和红辣椒的混合物。