You don’t need an expert to tell you that watermelon is just about the most refreshing thing you could possibly eat in the middle of summer, and that the first and best way to “prepare” it is to just cut it up and devour it, letting the juice drip down your face and spitting the seeds (more on these in a minute) as far as you can.
用不着专家来告诉你西瓜是炎炎夏日里最清爽的食物，“烹制”西瓜最简单、最好的办法就是切开、大口吃，让汁水顺着脸流，使劲把瓜籽吐出来（一会儿我会详谈这一点）。
When the weather is clammy and the watermelons are juicy and sweet (and cheap), it makes sense to have them on hand pretty much all the time. And that means there may be instances when your innate creativity (or boredom) might drive you a little further. Luckily, there are many worthy and refreshing things to do with watermelon that are somewhere between simple slicing and full-blown cooking.
在天气湿热、西瓜多汁味美（还便宜）的时候，手边常备大量西瓜是再自然不过的事。这样一来，本能的创造力（或者乏味感）不免会促使你想出点新鲜花样。幸运的是，西瓜有很多值得尝试的有趣做法，比简单切开要复杂，但又算不上正式的烹饪。
There are no bad watermelons, but how can you improve your chances for a ripe, delicious one? The cheater’s answer is to buy them at a farm stand or a farmers’ market, where not only are they likely to be tastier but will also come with a seasoned pro to help.
只要是西瓜就没有不好的，但是怎样才能挑到更成熟、更美味的西瓜呢？取巧的方法是在农场摊位或农夫市场上购买，那里的西瓜可能更美味，而且还有经验丰富的专业人士帮助你。
If you’re in the grocery store, you might have to get a little rough: put your ear close and slap the side of the watermelon. If it makes a hollow sound, you’re in business.
如果在商店超市购买，那可能要更辛苦一点：把耳朵贴近一点，轻拍西瓜的一端。如果听到空洞的声音，那就是碰到了好西瓜。
Because all the concoctions here (aside from the salads) involve buzzing the watermelon in a food processor or a blender, you’ll probably want to get rid of the seeds first. In the luxurious era of seedless watermelons, of course, this is often taken care of before you get to the store. (I am not convinced that seedless watermelons are as tasty as some of the older varieties, but this time of year they’re all pretty good, and you probably won’t have much of a choice anyway.) If you do find a melon with seeds, cut it lengthwise into quarters, slice off the “heart” of each quarter to expose the row of seeds and remove them with the tines of a fork. Cut the watermelon into chunks, and use them for any of the recipes here, which should all give you four servings.
因为下面提到的所有的混合物（除了沙拉）都需要在食物加工器或者搅拌器中弄碎，所以很可能需要先把籽去掉。当然在无籽西瓜盛行的奢侈年代，这个问题往往在去商店之前就有人替你解决好了（我不确信无籽西瓜比某些老的品种更美味，但是在这个季节，无籽西瓜都很好吃，而且你很可能没有别的选择）。如果你确实碰到了有籽西瓜，那就纵向切成四块，去掉每块的“心”，露出一排排的西瓜籽，用叉子的尖把它们去掉。然后把西瓜切成大块，下面提到的菜谱都会用到这些西瓜块。下面的食谱都是4人份的。
Save yourself a few wedges to munch on while you work; the first idea is often the best.
给自己留几块，供你在制作过程中咀嚼。最初的念头往往是最好的。
Recipes
食谱
1. Gin and Basil
1. 罗勒杜松子酒西瓜汁
Put 1 cup water, 1 cup sugar and a small bunch of basil in a small saucepan. Boil until sugar dissolves, discard the basil and chill. Peel 1 small watermelon (3 pounds), and cut the flesh into large chunks. Purée them in a blender until smooth. Pour the purée through a fine-mesh strainer, and discard the solids. Combine the juice with the chilled basil syrup and about 1/2 cup gin. Serve over ice.
把1杯水、1杯糖和1小把罗勒放入小煮锅中。煮到糖溶解，去掉罗勒，晾凉。把1个小西瓜（3磅）去皮，瓜瓤切成大块。用搅拌机把瓜瓤搅成泥，直到变光滑。用细网眼过滤器过滤瓜泥，去掉固体。把西瓜汁和晾凉的罗勒汁以及约1/2杯的杜松子酒混合到一起。加入冰块上桌。
2. Gazpacho
2. 泰式辣螃蟹西瓜汤
Peel 1 small watermelon (about 3 pounds), and cut the flesh into large chunks. Put them in a food processor along with 2 ripe tomatoes, chopped, 1 minced garlic clove, 2 tablespoons lime juice, minced fresh hot chili (like Thai or serrano) and fish sauce (both to taste). Pulse the mixture, adding a few ice cubes, one at a time, if necessary, fridge. After pouring the soup into bowls, top with a small mound of lump crabmeat. Garnish: Fresh cilantro.
1个小西瓜（约3磅）去皮，瓜瓤切成大块。把西瓜块放入食品加工机中，同时加入2个切成块的成熟番茄、1个切碎的蒜瓣、2汤匙酸橙汁、切碎的鲜辣椒（比如泰国辣椒或墨西哥辣椒）和鱼酱（后两样的分量依个人口味而定）。混合物要搅拌，同时加入几个冰块，一次加一个。需要的话，可冷藏。把汤倒入碗中之后，在上面放上一小堆蟹肉。装饰：新鲜芫荽叶。