In Vietnam, where I recently spent a week, streets are a sea of scooters and small motorcycles. Saigon, or Ho Chi Minh City if you insist, buzzes to the eddying of this two-wheeled tide. Entire families perch themselves on bikes, often with a small child up front who gets the best view, the hot breeze in her face and, of course, the least chance of emerging unscathed from a collision. Adults wear helmets; children and live animals do not.
我最近在越南待了一周，那里的街道是小摩托车的海洋。在西贡，或者你偏要叫它胡志明市也无妨，两轮摩托车川流不息，热闹非凡。当全家人都挤在一辆摩托车上时，往往是一个小女孩坐在前面，拥有最佳视野，面容被热风吹拂。当然，如果发生撞车事故，她毫发无损的机会也微乎其微。成人戴着头盔；小孩和活的动物却没有。
Along with the living — a chicken or piglet perhaps — various things may be wedged at angles, including small refrigerators, potted plants, metal frames and bunches of bananas. Bikes, the cars of the newly affluent, and pedestrians weave around one another in a seamless pattern fashioned not by any rule or organizing principle but by individual awareness. Major intersections, unburdened by anything as cumbersome or inflexible as traffic lights, function as massive group exercises in tentative advance, the principle being to coax others to the prudence of the brake by nosing ahead with just the right dose of insistence. Lo, the sea divides. A path opens. There is no logic at work, but there is a great deal of humanity.
活物——也许是小鸡或者仔猪——旁边，可能以各种角度挤着花样繁多的东西，比如小冰箱、盆栽、金属框架和香蕉束。摩托车、新富阶层的汽车、还有行人，密密麻麻地交织成一片，依靠的不是任何法规或组织原则，而是个体意识。主要道口没有红绿灯之类任何缺乏灵活性的累赘之物，完全是靠大批驾驶者试探性地前进，通过恰到好处的决心龟速行驶，诱使他人谨慎地踩下刹车。瞧，海洋分开了，一条路出现了。这里面没有任何逻辑，但是有大量的人性。
Madness might be a verdict on all this, but then to the average Vietnamese biker there might be equal madness to Western culture, hemmed in by all the controls that a combination of fear and technology produce. Surely there must be a happy medium between placing a toddler on the handlebars of a scooter and denying children the freedom to roam and discover that is essential to their development. Surely there is an appropriate balance between a free-for-all on the roads and a camera at every corner. But humanity tends to deal more in irrational exuberances than happy mediums. The pendulum swings too far.
你可能会断言这一切太疯狂；但西方文化已经被恐惧和技术共同催生的控制方法所包围，而对于普通的越南摩托车驾驶者来说，这种文化的疯狂程度大概也不相上下。毫无疑问，一边是把幼儿放在摩托车把手上，一边是不让孩子自由漫步，去获得他们成长必不可少的经历，两者之间肯定存在一个令人满意的中间地带。当然，在路上“所有人都自行其是”和每个角落都安装摄像头之间，也有一个适度的平衡。但是，与令人满意的中间地带相比，人性往往会更多地倾向非理性的繁荣。钟摆摆动得太远了。
In Britain, over-the-top safety obsessions have produced a society where cameras and so-called traffic-calming speed bumps are everywhere, visitors to churches and colleges are warned that medieval paving stones may be a little uneven, schoolchildren have been advised to wear goggles when using certain glues (and helmets under chestnut trees), trainee hairdressers are not allowed scissors in the classroom, and mail delivery gets suspended in an entire region if a postman slips and hurts his shoulder. David Cameron, the prime minister, spoke out five years ago against the health-and-safety culture that had produced “a stultifying blanket of bureaucracy, suspicion and fear that has saturated our country, covering the actions of millions of individuals.” Not much has changed.
在英国，对安全的过度执迷已经导致那里到处都是摄像头和“维持车流稳定”的减速带。游客前往教堂和大学之前，也会被提醒，中世纪的铺路石可能有点不平整。给中小学生的建议是，使用某些胶水时戴上护目镜（在栗树下要戴头盔）。见习理发师不能在课堂上使用剪刀。如果一名邮递员滑倒，肩膀受了伤，那么整个地区的邮件配送都会暂停。首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)五年前就曾发言反对这种唯健康安全至上的文化，因为它催生了“官僚作风、怀疑和恐惧感，而这种僵化的风气已经席卷英国，影响了无数人的行为。”这一点，至今变化不大。
Britain is only an extreme example of the broader phenomenon that can see the world’s greatest city, New York, shut down not by a snowstorm but by the possibility of a snowstorm (the blizzard that never happened); and the bizarre term “free-range parenting” applied to American moms and dads who believe their children should be allowed to walk home from school alone and play outside. Earlier this year a Maryland couple was found responsible for “child neglect” because they let kids walk home alone from a neighborhood park. Whatever happened to the land of the free and home of the brave?
英国不过是一个极端例子，它背后的更广泛的现象，可以在全球最伟大的城市纽约见识一二。让那里停止运行的不是雪灾，而是因为可能有雪灾（结果并没有出现暴风雪）；离奇的短语“自由放养孩子”是指，一些美国父母认为自己的孩子应该获许独自从学校步行回家，并在外面玩耍。今年早些时候，马里兰州一对夫妇被认定“对儿童照管不周”，因为他们让孩子从社区里的一座公园独自步行回家。在这片自由的土地上，在这个勇者的家园里，究竟发生了些什么？
I am not recommending that Western urban planners go to Vietnam to study traffic management. I am suggesting that developed Western societies, increasingly fear-driven, tend to fall into a nanny-state mind-set where health, safety and security must all be stringently regulated, adults are viewed as children, and the emotional intelligence of humanity is underestimated or discounted. To cross a highway in Saigon — perhaps with a wave here and there to remind onrushing scooters and cars of your existence — is to experience not just relief at reaching the other side, but wonderment at how unregulated people can work together.
我不是在建议西方的城市规划师前往越南研习交通管理，而是说，发达的西方社会越来越受到恐惧感的驱使，往往会陷入一种保姆式的思维，觉得健康和安全必须通通受到严格监管；成年人被当作孩童对待，人类的情商遭到低估或轻视。在西贡穿越一条公路——也许要时不时地挥挥手，提醒那些奔涌而来的摩托车和汽车别撞到你——你不仅会在到达马路对面时如释重负，也会感到惊奇：不受监管的人群何以互相配合。
The Dutch traffic engineer Hans Monderman was intrigued by this phenomenon. His “shared space” idea turned traditional thinking about road safety on its head. For much of the 20th century the assumption was that efficient traffic flow depended on a full separation of cars and pedestrians, complemented by traffic signals, signs, barriers and road markings that would keep people safe. The state took charge through regulation; the individual only had to obey instructions.
荷兰的交通工程师汉斯·莫德曼(Hans Monderman)对这个现象很感兴趣。他的“共享空间”理论是对道路安全的传统思维的大逆转。在20世纪的许多时间里，人们都觉得，要让交通变得高效，就需要把车辆和行人完全分隔开，辅以保护人身安全的交通信号、标识、障碍物和路面标记。国家负责监管；个体只需要服从指令即可。
Monderman, who died in 2008, had other ideas. He wanted to raise collective awareness and responsibility by doing away with all that separateness, and he believed that safety might be increased by making all travelers intensely aware of one another. Cars, bicyclists and pedestrians would all move on a single curb-free surface, without sidewalks or signs. Sometimes he would test his schemes — developed in various Dutch, German and Scandinavian towns — by walking backward into dense traffic in a shared-space area. Of late the idea of “shared space” has even gained a foothold in London.
2008年过世的莫德曼则有着不同的想法。他希望通过破除一切隔离来提高集体意识和责任感。他相信，让所有人都强烈意识到彼此的存在，安全性可能反而会提高。机动车、自行车和行人都在同一条没有限制、没有人行道或标识的路面上混行。有时候，他会测试这个方案——荷兰、德国和斯堪的纳维亚的多座城镇设有这样的道路——在“共享空间”密集的车流人流中倒着步行。近来，“共享空间”的理念甚至在伦敦赢得了一席之地。