HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam — Taking a puff from a hookah and a sip from her beer, Thuy Truong, a 29-year-old tech entrepreneur in a black cocktail dress, pondered the question: What were her thoughts on the 40th anniversary of the fall of Saigon?
越南胡志明市——吸了一口水烟，又喝了一口啤酒，身穿黑色鸡尾酒裙的29岁高科技创业者水长(Thuy Truong)思考着这样一个问题：对于西贡沦陷40周年，她有什么想法？
“Forty years ago?” she yelled over the body-rattling roar of nightclub music. “Who cares!”
“40年前？”她在夜总会嘈杂的音乐声中大叫。“谁在乎！”
Four decades after the victory of Communist forces, the soul of this city, still known locally as Saigon, seems firmly planted in the present. For the young and increasingly affluent, Saigon is a city that does not want to look back, loves having fun and perhaps most of all is voraciously capitalistic.
越共军队获得胜利40年之后，这个城市仍被当地人称为西贡，但它的灵魂似乎牢牢着眼于当下。对于日益富裕的年轻人而言，西贡是一座不愿回顾往昔，热衷于玩乐的城市，也许最重要的是，它是一座贪婪的资本主义之城。
The apartment building where evacuees clambered up an outdoor staircase to board a C.I.A. helicopter in a chaotic rooftop operation, a scene captured in an iconic photograph, is now at the heart of a neighborhood filled with luxury shops selling $1,000 Rimowa suitcases and $2,000 Burberry suits.
曾有一幅著名的照片显示撤离者爬上一座公寓大楼的室外楼梯，登上中情局直升机的混乱场景。现在，那座公寓周围的街区满是奢侈品商店，出售着1000美元的日默瓦(Rimowa)旅行箱包，2000美元的巴宝莉(Burberry)套装。
A newly paved walkway runs down the median of nearby Nguyen Hue Street, a magnet for teenagers on skateboards and in-line skaters who swoosh past a temporary display of photographs honoring a deceased senior official of the Communist Party. A statue of Ho Chi Minh, the Communist revolutionary leader, is sandwiched between a luxury hotel and a refurbished French colonial building that will soon house a Brooks Brothers store.
从阮惠街中段延伸出来一条新铺的人行道上，正在举办一场越共已故高级官员纪念照片的临时展览，玩滑板和旱冰鞋的少年正在照片前穿梭。越共革命领袖胡志明的雕像，则夹在一座豪华酒店和一座翻新后的法国殖民时期建筑之间，一家布克兄弟(Brooks Brothers)商店很快将在该建筑中开业。
Two-thirds of the Vietnamese population was born after the fall of Saigon and the reunification of Vietnam in 1975.
越南三分之二的人口都是在1975年西贡沦陷、越南统一之后出生的。
Among the young there is gratefulness that they are coming of age now, when the country is at peace after so many centuries of wars, occupation and entanglements with foreign armies.
一些年轻人庆幸自己是在如今这个时代长大成人，因为越南此前经历了数个世纪的战争、占领，以及与外国军队的缠斗，现在处于和平时期。
“I feel lucky that I was born a long time after 1975,” said Thu Nghi, who at 22 has her own company that buys, refurbishes and sells homes. From a childhood of poverty and misfortune, Ms. Thu Nghi parlayed a small trading company into a thriving business, and now owns four cars and numerous houses.
“我觉得自己很幸运，因为1975年之后很久我才出生，”22岁的秋毅(Thu Nghi)说。她有一家收购、整修和销售房屋的公司。秋毅童年时遭受过贫穷和不幸，她从一家小型贸易公司开始，发展起了兴旺的生意，现在她已拥有四辆汽车和多处房屋。
New money is everywhere in Saigon, the former capital of South Vietnam, because all the old money fled or was stripped away when the Communist North won the war.
西贡是越南南方的前首都，随处可见新富阶层，因为在越共赢得战争时，之前的富人或是逃走，或是被剥夺了财产。
In the early years of a unified Vietnam, the government pursued disastrous experiments with collectivized farms and bans on private enterprise.
越南统一后的早些年，政府开办集体农场，禁止私营企业，这些举措让人苦不堪言。
The country’s leaders changed course around the time the Soviet Union collapsed, embracing the market economy, a pillar of the very system they had fought to defeat.
苏联解体前后，越南领导人改变政策，拥抱市场经济——他们曾努力打败的那种体制的支柱之一。
Since then, Saigon, a freewheeling bastion of capitalism before 1975, has returned to its roots with vigor.
此后，在1975年前一直是资本主义自由捍卫者的西贡，充满活力地回归本源。
Ralf Matthaes, a Canadian who arrived in Vietnam in 1993, remembers streets filled with “nothing but bicycles.” “If you saw a car you would actually stop and stare at it,” he said.
在1993年来到越南的加拿大人拉尔夫·马特斯(Ralf Matthaes)的记忆中，街道上“除了自行车没有别的”。他说，“要是见到汽车，你真的会停下来，盯着它看。”
Motorcycles have taken over the city streets now, and often the sidewalks. The roar of so many internal combustion engines in unison is the hallmark of a modern Vietnamese city and sounds like a giant wave crashing and rolling onto the shore.
如今，摩托车占据了城市街道，经常还包括人行道。许多内燃机一齐轰鸣的声音，成为现代越南城市的标志，听起来像是冲撞、翻滚到海岸的巨浪。
Gone are the Communist ethos of conformity and the shunning of ostentatiousness that came with it.
共产主义整齐划一、避免出风头的日子已经一去不复返。
A decade ago Mr. Matthaes, who manages a market research consultancy here, had a Vietnamese colleague who was so embarrassed by her BMW that she covered it with cardboard when colleagues came to her house.
马特斯目前在这里经营一家市场研究咨询公司。10年前，他的一名越南同事因为开宝马车而感到局促不安，当同事们到她家时，她用纸板遮住了汽车。
“That is one of the single largest changes,” he said. “Today you see people driving to a cafe and parking their car where everyone can see it. It’s gone from a society hiding its wealth to flaunting it.”
“这是最大的变化之一，”他说。“现在可以看到人们开车到咖啡馆，把车停到大家都能看到的地方。这个社会的风气已经从隐藏财富变成炫耀财富了。”
If, for the Americans, the war here, in which 58,000 Americans and as many as three million Vietnamese died, was on some level about keeping Vietnam safe for capitalism, it turns out that they need not have worried. Capitalism here churns relentlessly, aided by what Ted Osius, the United States ambassador, calls “the most entrepreneurial people on earth.”
在越南战争中，有5.8万名美国人和多达300万名越南人死亡。如果说越南战争在某种程度上是美国人要确保越南能够发展资本主义，那么结果证明他们原本无需担心。在美国驻越南大使泰德·欧斯尤斯(Ted Osius)所说的“地球上最具创业精神的人”的推动下，资本主义浪潮不断涌动。
Last year, 78 percent of registered companies in Ho Chi Minh City shut down, according to government statistics, as the country was emerging from a debt crisis.
政府数据显示，去年，在一场债务危机渐渐平息的同时，在胡志明市注册的公司有78%选择关门。
But the creation of new companies has since gathered pace; so far 26 percent more new companies have been formed this year than in the same period last year.
但此后，新公司的创建步伐不断加快，今年到目前为止，新公司的数量同比增长26%。
City planners here speak approvingly of the intense competition and the constant cycle of corporate failure and rebirth.
城市规划者称赞这种激烈竞争和企业失败、再生的不断循环。
The name cards of government officials still say “Socialist Republic of Vietnam,” but their talking points would bring a smile to Adam Smith.
政府官员的名片上写的仍是“越南社会主义共和国”，但他们的谈话要点会让亚当·斯密(Adam Smith)会心一笑。
“Weak companies will fail; that’s normal,” said Tran Anh Tuan, the acting president of the Ho Chi Minh City Institute for Development Studies, a government planning agency. “They can learn from failure; that’s a good way to develop.”
“弱的公司会倒闭；这很正常，”胡志明市发展研究所(Ho Chi Minh City Institute for Development Studies)代理所长陈英俊(Tran Anh Tuan)说。“他们可以从失败中学习；这是一个非常好的发展途径。”
Indeed, the shell of a Communist command economy remains: The state-owned companies that make up around one-quarter of the economy have large debts and are not very efficient. The private sector and foreign companies are what keeps the economy buzzing.
实际上，共产主义计划经济的外壳依然存在：国有企业在整个经济中占将近四分之一，它们有大量债务，效率低下。经济活力是靠私营和外国公司保持的。
More than 200,000 migrants a year flock to Ho Chi Minh City from other parts of Vietnam. The city counts eight million registered residents, but estimates of the total population reach 12 million.
每年有20万以上的流动人口从越南的其他地方涌入胡志明市。该市的登记人口为800万，但据估计实际上达到了1200万。
Rags-to-riches stories are everywhere.
白手起家的故事随处可见。
Ms. Thuy Truong, the tech entrepreneur, did not have electricity in her home until she was 7. She now develops smartphone apps and commutes between Mountain View, Calif., and Ho Chi Minh City. She recently sold her software firm to Weeby, an American company, for more than a million dollars. (She will not say exactly how much.) She turns 30 in December.
科技创业者水长直到7岁的时候，家里才用上电。她现在开发智能手机应用程序，在加州山景市与胡志明市之间往返。她最近以超过100万美元的价格将自己的软件公司卖给了美国公司Weeby。（她不愿透露具体价格。）她将在今年12月迎来30岁的生日。
Nguyen Trung Tin, 28, took over his parent’s real estate company last year. He remembers his parents’ relentless struggle to turn nothing into a sizable fortune, with them studying Chinese, Japanese and Russian language tapes well into the night in the one-room apartment they shared when he was a boy.
28岁的阮忠廷(Nguyen Trung Tin)去年接手了父母的房地产公司。他仍记得父母如何从一无所有到积攒起不小的一笔财富，小时候他跟父母住在一居室的公寓里，父母跟着磁带学习汉语、日语和俄罗斯语，直至深夜。
Now Mr. Tin is in the thick of the glamour of the new Vietnam. He owns two nightclubs, an events company and a Thai restaurant.
如今阮忠廷沉浸在流光溢彩的新越南生活中。他拥有两家夜总会，一家活动策划公司和一家泰国餐厅。
But he criticizes many of his generation for forsaking what had been a culture of self-improvement for a culture of materialism for its own sake.
但他批评称，他这一代中有很多人放弃了自我完善的文化，为了自己的利益追求物质主义。
“They see the fast cars, they have Louis Vuitton bags and Christian Louboutin shoes,” he said. “For them it’s just a question of how do I get that. They are hungry for the wrong reasons and for the wrong things.”
“他们喜欢跑车， 背着Louis Vuitton的包，穿着Christian Louboutin的鞋，”他说。“对他们来说唯一的问题就是我怎么弄到它。他们的欲望用在了错误的目的和东西上。”
The easy money was made more than a decade ago, when property prices soared and millionaires were minted overnight. It now takes a lot of hard work, luck and often government connections to make a fortune.
十多年前房价飙升，突然出现很多百万富翁的时候，钱很好赚。但现在需要通过努力、运气，通常还有政府关系，才能发财致富。
But Ho Chi Minh City is still a magnet for the young, a place of opportunity and fun.
但胡志明市对于年轻人来说，仍是一个具有吸引力的城市，一个充满机会和乐趣的地方。