In the months leading up to the hunt, Dylan Mayer trained twice a week in his parents’ swimming pool, asking friends to attack him, splay their arms and grab him, drag him to the surface and shove him below it, pull off his mask, snatch his regulator, time his recovery. By last Halloween, he was ready, and as the light began to fade that afternoon, the broad-shouldered 19-year-old jumped into a red Ford pickup truck with his buddy and drove some 40 minutes from Maple Valley, Wash., to West Seattle. They arrived at Alki Beach around 4 p.m., put on their wet suits and ambled into Cove 2. Then they slipped into Elliott Bay, the Space Needle punctuating the city line in the distance like an inverted exclamation point.
在捕猎前的几个月，迪伦·梅耶(Dylan Mayer)每个星期在他父母家的游泳池里进行两次训练。他让朋友们向他发起袭击，用他们的手臂紧箍住他，把他拖到水面上，又狠狠把他推下去。他让他们在水里把他的潜水面镜摘掉，把他的呼吸调节器抢走，并记录他需要多久才能脱险。去年万圣节前，梅耶准备好了。那天下午，当暮色降临时，这个肩膀宽厚的19岁少年和他的一名伙伴跳进了一辆红色的福特皮卡。从华盛顿州的枫树谷到西西雅图他们开了差不多40分钟，在大约下午4点的时候到达了阿尔基海滩。他们穿上了潜水服，走到了2号小海湾。在那儿，他们下潜到了艾略特湾。远处，太空针塔（西雅图标志性建筑——译注）高耸于城际线之上，像是一个倒置的感叹号。
Under the dark water, the teenagers looked around with the help of a diving light. At 45 feet, they passed a sunken ship, the Honey Bear, and at 85 feet, beneath the buoy line, they saw further evidence of the former marina — steel beams, pilings and sunken watercrafts. Marine life thrived in this haven of junk, and for this reason, Cove 2 was a popular dive site. According to the permit he had just purchased at Walmart, Mayer was allowed to catch this sea life and cook it, which is exactly what he set out to do. He wasn’t much of a chef, but he had experience foraging for his dinner. Mayer had attended a high school known for its Future Farmers of America program; he also knew how to slaughter cows and castrate bulls. Now he was going to community college, where he was asked to draw something from nature. He figured that he might as well eat it too. And as he scanned the bay, he could already imagine searing the marine morsels on high heat and popping them, rare and unctuous, into his mouth. He soon spotted his prey. “That’s a big [expletive] octopus,” he scribbled on his underwater slate.
在黑暗的海水里，两位少年借助一盏潜水灯观察四周。下潜到45英尺时，他们游过了一艘叫蜜熊号的沉船。在85英尺处，就在浮标线下，他们看到了更多这个昔日码头的遗迹——钢柱、栓船用的桩子，以及别的沉船。这片垃圾场是海洋生物们的安生之所，它们在此繁衍生息。正因为如此，2号小海湾吸引了众多潜水者。梅耶刚从沃尔玛超市购买了捕鱼许可证。这个证件允许他捕捉并烹饪海洋生物。这正是梅耶的此行计划。他并不是什么大厨，但是梅耶有在野外搜寻食材的经历。他上过的高中开设了一门远近闻名的 “美国未来农夫”（一个全国性的青少年组织，教育初、高中学生农业知识——译注）课程；梅耶知道怎么屠宰母牛和阉割公牛。现在他在一所社区大学继续学业。老师让学生们绘画自然之物；梅耶想，把它吃掉应该也是可以的吧。当他在海湾中四处查看时，梅耶想像着把一块块的海鲜在大火上烤得外焦里嫩、汁水横流，送进嘴里。没过多久他就发现了猎物。“那章鱼可真（此处省略脏话）大，”他在水下记事板上这样记录到。
The giant Pacific octopus was curled inside a rock piling, both its color and texture altered by camouflage. Mayer judged it to be his size, about six feet, and wondered if he could take it on alone. He lunged at the octopus, grabbing one of its eight arms. It slipped slimily between his fingers, its suckers feeling and tasting his hand. He reached for it again, and again it retreated. Able to squeeze its body through a space as small as a lemon, the octopus was unlikely to succumb to his grip. He poked it with his finger and watched it turn brighter shades of red, until finally, it sprang forward and revealed itself to be a nine-foot wheel charging through the water.
这只北太平洋巨型章鱼蜷缩在一堆石头里，它的颜色和肌理因为伪装而发生变化。梅耶判断它的尺寸跟他身高差不多，大概有6英尺长（约1米8）。梅耶在想他一个人能否搞定这只章鱼。他朝章鱼猛游过去，一把抓住了它8只触须中的一只。触须在梅耶手中黏糊糊地滑过，上面的吸盘感觉似乎在品尝着梅耶的手。梅耶又试图抓住章鱼，但是它又一次退缩。章鱼能把它们的身体从一个柠檬大小的空间中挤过，所以梅耶是不大可能抓住它的。他用手指捅了一下章鱼，看到它变得越来越红。最后，章鱼往前一冲，膨胀成了一个直径9英尺的巨大轮子，向梅耶袭来。
The octopus grabbed Mayer where it could, encircling his thigh, spiraling his torso, its some 1,600 suckers — varying in size from a peppercorn to a pepper mill — latching onto his wet suit and face. It pulled Mayer’s regulator out of his mouth. His adrenaline rising, he punched the creature, and began a wrestling match that would last 25 minutes.
章鱼抓住梅耶就不放手，裹住他的大腿，螺旋形缠绕他的身躯，它的1,600多只吸盘——小的有胡椒粒那么大，大的如同胡椒搅碎器——牢牢吸住他的潜水衣和面颊，把呼吸调节器从他嘴里拽了出来。他的肾上腺素飙升，他用拳头猛击章鱼，开始了与它长达25分钟的较量。
Eventually, he managed to pull the animal to the surface, where a number of divers couldn’t help noticing a teenager punching an 80-pound octopus. As they approached, Mayer freaked out. “Let’s get out of here,” he said, sucker marks ringing his face. “Maybe we shouldn’t have done this.” But it was too late. He dragged his kill ashore, where a few bystanders, in disbelief, took his picture and threatened to report him. Lugging the octopus to the red truck, Mayer cited his permit. But the divers kept taking pictures. That night, as Mayer butchered the octopus for dinner, they posted the photos online.
最终，他把这头怪兽拉到了海面上。这位少年挥拳猛揍一只重达80磅的大章鱼，吸引了海面上一群潜水者的注意。他们围拢过来，梅耶紧张了。“我们得赶快离开这个地方，”他说。他满脸都是章鱼吸盘吸出的印痕。“我们也许不该这么做。”但是已经来不及了。他把自己的猎物拽上海岸，几位围观者开始用手机拍照，威胁要举报他。他把章鱼拉到自己的红色卡车前，告诉他们自己有捕鱼许可，但他们仍旧在拍照。当晚，梅耶杀掉章鱼做晚餐的时候，他们已经把照片贴上网了。
In a city finely attuned to both the ethics of food sourcing and poster-worthy animal causes (the spotted owl, the killer whale and marbled murrelet among them), Mayer’s exploits became an instant cause célèbre. On Nov. 1 and 2, Seattle’s competing news stations reported the octopus hunt. The next day, The Seattle Times ran the story on the front page. On Web forums, Seattleites tracked down the teenager’s name and address through the clues in the photos: the truck’s license plate, the high school named on Mayer’s sweatshirt and the inspection sticker affixed to his tank. “I hope this sick [expletive] gets tangled in a gill net next time he dives and thus removes a potential budding sociopath before it graduates from invertebrates to mammals,” read one typical comment, which received 52 “thumbs-ups.” Around the same time, Scott Lundy, one of the men who had confronted Mayer in Cove 2, issued a “Save the G.P.O.” petition to ban octopus harvesting from the beach and examine the practice statewide. By the next day, he had collected 1,105 signatures.
在西雅图这个对食物来源的道德标准异常看重，而且各种美丽的动物形象（例如斑点猫头鹰、杀人鲸和斑海雀等等）深得人心的城市，梅耶的捕猎行动很快闹得满城风雨。11月1日和2日，西雅图几家电视台竞相报道他猎杀章鱼的事。11月3日，《西雅图时报》头版报道此事。在网络论坛上，西雅图的民众通过照片上的线索：车牌号、梅耶穿的套头衫上的学校名字和油箱上贴的检验标签，“人肉搜索”出他的名字和地址。“我希望这个变态的（此处省略脏话）下次潜水的时候缠在刺网上，在它从猎杀无脊椎动物升级到捕猎哺乳动物之前就自行了断，免得成为一个反社会的冷血混蛋，”一条颇具代表性的评论如是说，并且收到了52个“赞”。与此同时，当时在二号小海湾向他发难的人之一——斯科特·伦迪(Scott Lundy)，在网上发起了“拯救太平洋巨型章鱼”的请愿活动，呼吁禁止在海滩上捕猎章鱼，并且在全州范围内清查此类活动。第二天，他就已经收集了1105个签名。
Across Elliott Bay, at the same time, a much subtler food sourcer was at work. Chef Matthew Dillon was building his highly anticipated new restaurant, Bar Sajor (pronounced “sigh-your”) in Pioneer Square. After the success of his first, Sitka & Spruce, Dillon, 39, earned an unsought reputation as the consummate locavore in a city filled with them. He cultivated rare herbs and foraged for mushrooms in the foothills of the Cascades; whereas many Brooklyn restaurants are only now coming around to wood sorrel and perilla, Dillon has been cooking with them since 1995. At Bar Sajor, there would be a rotisserie and a wood-fire oven, but no gas range; Dillon would make his own yogurt and vinegars, ferment his own vegetables and change his menu every day depending on what looked fresh and interesting — including, as it happened, giant Pacific octopus.
与此同时，在埃利奥特湾另外一边，一位口味更加挑剔的食材搜寻者正在工作。马修·迪伦(Matthew Dillon)是一位厨师，他正在先锋广场打造众人期待的新餐厅——“萨悠酒吧”。39岁的迪伦此前创办的斯特卡·斯普鲁斯(Sitka & Spruce)餐厅颇受好评。尽管迪伦并未大肆宣扬，却在西雅图这个热衷于开发本地食材的地方赢得了“顶尖本地食材美食家”的名声。他自己栽种罕见的香草，在卡斯凯德山脉边缘的小山坡上采摘蘑菇；纽约布鲁克林很多餐馆直到最近才刚刚开发出酢浆草和紫苏的菜肴，他可是从1995年开始就拿它们做菜了。萨悠酒吧有一部旋转烤肉架和烧木柴的烤炉，却没有燃气烤箱。迪伦自己制作酸奶和调味醋，自己腌泡菜，根据当天的时鲜食材每天都更换菜谱——他的食材恰巧也包括太平洋巨型章鱼。
So as the “Save the G.P.O.” campaign raged this spring, the city raved about Dillon’s octopus salad. In The Stranger, the influential alt-weekly magazine, Bethany Jean Clement described it as having “a restrained oceangoing flavor, a bouncy but tender texture — sometimes a little chewy but never rubbery,” plated that day with “a thick walnut sauce, dill for freshness, and an oozing egg yolk for vivid creaminess and color.” The Seattle Times also heaped praise. “Bar Sajor Is Matt Dillon’s Finest Yet,” ran one Friday headline, just a week after another: “New Hunting Rules Likely for Puget Sound Octopus.” Whenever the salad appeared on the menu, it sold out. Inevitably this posed a most uncomfortable question for Seattle’s food community: should it save the giant Pacific octopus or just eat it?
所以，当今年春天“保护太平洋巨型章鱼”的运动如火如荼时，西雅图的老饕们对迪伦的章鱼沙拉也赞不绝口。在当地颇有影响的《陌生人》周刊上，贝瑟妮·让·克莱蒙特(Bethany Jean Clement)如此描述迪伦的章鱼沙拉：“它有一种深藏不露的海洋风味，弹牙、质地柔嫩——偶尔略有嚼头，但绝不会如同橡胶一样咬不动。”当天的章鱼沙拉装盘时搭配“浓厚的核桃汁、小茴香增加鲜味，溏心鸡蛋则带来鲜活的颜色和柔滑口感”。《西雅图时报》也是赞誉有加。某个周五的头条这样写道：“萨悠酒吧是马特·迪伦的巅峰之作。”此前一周的头条则是：“皮吉特海峡章鱼捕猎规则有望改变。”每次迪伦在菜单上提供章鱼沙拉都会一售而空。而这也给西雅图的美食业带来令人难堪的两难：究竟应该保护太平洋巨型章鱼，还是吃掉它？
The giant Pacific octopus, the world’s largest, is the celebrity of cephalopods. For decades, visitors have crowded around its tank at the Seattle Aquarium, marveling at the intelligence of a sea creature that can open childproof jars, recognize its keeper and press its suckers against the glass to match a lifted hand. Found between California and Japan, the octopuses usually weigh anywhere between 30 and 100 pounds and can reach more than 14 feet, or about the height of a double-decker bus. As adults, they have few natural predators in the bays and inlets of Washington and live in abundance in the Puget Sound.
太平洋巨型章鱼是全世界最大的章鱼品种，也是头足纲动物中的明星。数十年来，西雅图水族馆的游客们挤在章鱼缸前，对这种海洋生物的智慧赞叹不已：它可以打开能够防止儿童误食的罐子，认出自己的饲养员，当有人在鱼缸前举起手时，它还会把自己的吸盘粘在玻璃上来呼应。它在加州和日本之间分布广泛，通常体重30-100磅，最长可达14英尺——相当于双层公共汽车的高度。成年巨型章鱼在华盛顿州的海湾和峡湾中几乎没有天敌，在皮吉特海峡尤其数量众多。
While the octopuses were fished by coastal Native Americans centuries ago, their general unwieldiness has prevented them from catching on in the retail fish market. Commercially, giant Pacific octopus was fished in the Puget Sound as incidental catch mostly from bottom trawls, a practice that topped out in 1988 at 83,500 pounds per year, and then dropped precipitously as fishing methods changed. From 1998 to 2000, direct harvest of octopus by shellfish pots averaged only about 100 pounds annually. In 2001, the pots were outlawed; in 2010, commercial trawlnets were, too. This created the strange rule that direct harvest was legal “by hand or by instrument which will not penetrate or mutilate the body,” and you could take one octopus per day. Few bothered. Even in Seattle, where they thrive, the octopus served in most restaurants came from places like the Philippines, Spain, Indonesia and Japan.
住在海岸地区的美洲原住民早就捕食章鱼，但它们处理起来比较棘手，所以在零售鱼类市场并不太受欢迎。从商业捕鱼的角度，皮吉特海峡的巨型太平洋章鱼仅是海底拖网捕捞的副产品，其产量在1988年触顶，达到83,500磅。随着捕鱼方法的变化，这一数字随后急剧下降。从1988年到2000年，被捕贝篓直接捕捞上来的章鱼年均只有100磅左右。2001年，捕贝篓被禁止了。2010年，商业拖网捕捞也被禁止。于是就形成了奇怪的捕猎规则：“徒手或以不刺透、损伤鱼体的器具”直接捕捞章鱼是合法的，每天最多可以捕捞一只。但几乎没人浪费这个力气。即便是在盛产章鱼的西雅图，当地餐馆盘中的章鱼也多数进口自菲律宾、西班牙、印尼和日本等国。
And so perhaps diners fell out of the habit of asking where their octopus came from, comforted by the assumption that this iconic marine species — inspiration for countless tattoos, as well as the Seattle Aquarium’s booming annual Octopus Week — was not on their plates. Certainly, no one was ready to see it killed by a teenager. And days after Mayer was identified, the regular meeting of the Washington Fish and Wildlife Commission was unusually well attended. Dozens of irate Seattleites filed into a conference room and, seating themselves in plastic chairs, were surprised to see that the first speaker to approach the podium was a teenager in bluejeans. “I’m obviously here today from the incident in Cove 2 with the octopus,” Mayer said. “I was the hunter. I did not know that that place was so loved by all the divers, or otherwise I would not have done it. . . . I do agree with how that place should be off limits [to octopus hunting], and it should be clearly posted so that this mistake doesn’t happen again.”
所以，西雅图的食客们也许已经习惯了不再询问他们盘中的章鱼来自何处。许多人身上的章鱼纹身，以及西雅图水族馆每年一度的章鱼周活动的火爆程度，都说明了这种标志性的海洋生物在当地人心目中的地位。他们也许认定自己吃的章鱼并非来自本地，因而获得些许慰籍。当然，没人想看到章鱼被一位少年捕杀。梅耶被人肉搜索之后几天，华盛顿州鱼类与野生动物委员会召开例会，公众参加程度异常踊跃。数十位气愤的西雅图居民涌入会场。他们坐在塑料椅子上，吃惊地发现第一个走上讲台的人是位穿牛仔裤的少年。“显然，我今天来是因为2号小海湾发生的章鱼事件，”梅耶说。“我就是捕章鱼那个人。我不知道潜水者们那么喜欢那个地方，不然我就不会那么做了… 我也同意那个地方应该禁止(捕章鱼)，并且应该在清楚标示，以免错误再次发生。”
Mayer stepped down, and others took the lectern to recite their prepared remarks, which failed to acknowledge that the threat had effectively just been neutralized. Eventually, Mike Racine stood to speak, representing the Washington Scuba Alliance, whose director of conservation, Scott Lundy, first posted Mayer’s photo online. “I did want to recognize that Dylan Mayer is here today. He and his family took a lot of heat over the last week for this legal taking of an octopus. Much of that heat is vitriolic in nature and inappropriate, and Dylan, just so you know, the Scuba Alliance regrets that, and we applaud you for being here,” Racine said. The room stood and clapped. Mayer, once a nemesis of the giant Pacific octopus, had suddenly become its most visible supporter.
梅耶走下讲台，其他人陆续上去按他们事先准备好的讲稿发言，而他们在发言中提到的“威胁”显然已经不复存在了。最后，华盛顿州浮潜联合会的代表迈克·拉辛(Mike Racine)发言。这个组织的动物保护项目负责人斯科特·伦迪就是把梅耶照片贴上网的人。“我要对迪伦·梅耶今天的到来表示认可。他和他的家人为了这次合法的捕猎章鱼，在过去一周遭受了很多批评。这其中有很多都是无理谩骂。迪伦，为了表明我们的态度，华盛顿州浮潜联合会对此表示歉意，我们赞赏你今天来到这里。”拉辛说。全会议室的人都站起来鼓掌。梅耶一度是太平洋巨型章鱼的死敌，现在忽然成了它最受关注的支持者。
From there, Fish and Wildlife went full “Parks and Recreation” on the octopus-hunting problem. The ad hoc Giant Pacific Octopus Advisory Group formed to draft options for protective enclosures. Over the months, they would meet several times, examining the conditions of the celebrity species and amassing a binder of more than 100 (mostly double-sided) pages. The Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife hosted public meetings at the aquarium and considered formal comments from more than 400 constituents as well as an expert scientific evaluation. Mark Plunkett, the Seattle Aquarium’s Conservation Manager, and his team on the advisory group gathered decades of research data to compile their report.
从此以后，鱼类与野生动物委员会在捕猎章鱼的问题上的行动与电视剧《公园娱乐》(Parks and Recreation) 的情节如出一辙。他们临时成立了“太平洋巨型章鱼咨询小组”，起草封闭水域保护章鱼的方案。此后几个月，他们召集了若干次会议，研究这个明星物种目前的状况，汇集了100多页（多数是双面打印）的文件。华盛顿州鱼类与野生动物部在水族馆召开了公众会议，听取了400多位市民的正式提议，以及专家们的科学评估。西雅图水族馆的保育经理马克·普朗凯特(Mark Plunkett)和咨询小组成员为了撰写报告，收集了数十年的研究数据。
Their conclusion, however, turned out to be more complicated than anyone anticipated. An informal octopus census as well as studies like a five-year diver survey indicated that the giant Pacific octopus population in the Puget Sound was actually quite robust. The species grew quickly, lived briefly and reproduced effectively — factors important to determining its sustainability. In Alaska, in fact, it seemed as if there were more than plenty of them. When in 2011 the state tried to protect the species by capping incidental catch at 150, they discovered the giant Pacific octopus population was so plentiful that they reached their quota by October; that season’s pot cod fishing had to shut down early. The octopus didn’t need to be saved, Plunkett’s team determined; the people of Seattle simply wanted to save it.
但是，他们的结论却远比任何人预料的更加复杂。非正式的章鱼数量调查以及5年来对潜水者们的调研发现，皮吉特海峡的巨型章鱼数量实际上相当稳健。这个物种生长迅速，生命周期短暂，繁育效率很高——这些都是评估它们数量可持续性的重要因素。实际上，在阿拉斯加州，章鱼的数量可谓庞大。2011年，阿拉斯加为了保护章鱼，规定每年作为副产品捕捞的数量不得超过150只。但是，他们发现当地章鱼数量如此之多，以致到当年10月就已经达到了限量；于是，当季的鳕鱼网笼捕捞不得不提前停止。普朗凯特的团队得出的结论是，章鱼没有必要保护；而西雅图的居民却执意要保护他们。
Plunkett says this often happens with “glamour animals,” and so the advisory group was faced with a question that seemed begging for mockery: Must a species be endangered to justify protection, or was just liking to look at it reason enough?
普朗凯特说，这种情况经常出现在“明星动物”的身上。于是，咨询小组就面临了这样一个明显具有嘲讽意味的问题：“一个物种只有在濒危的时候才应该保护吗？或者人们喜欢观赏他们就已经是充足的理由？”
The success of any octopus dish lies in its texture. In the Greek isles, fishermen swing octopuses into boulders, up to 100 times, to tenderize the tough meat, which is about 90 percent muscle. In Japan, disciples of the sushi chef Jiro Ono massage their octopuses by hand for up to 50 minutes. Many home cooks, including Mayer, pound it. Even then, the texture can still be unfavorably compared to what Plunkett describes as “butter-fried rubber” — a consistency that caused Mayer’s mother to choke when she found a bite of his octopus in her bowl of bouillabaisse.
任何一种以章鱼为原料的菜肴，成功的关键在于章鱼肉的质地。在希腊群岛，渔夫们把章鱼狠狠摔在岩石上多达100次，以软化坚韧的章鱼肉，其中90%都是肌肉。在日本，寿司大师小野次郎(Jiro Ono)的传人们用手按摩章鱼长达50分钟。许多家庭主厨像梅耶那样用锤子击打章鱼肉。即便如此，章鱼肉的质地仍旧往往如同普朗凯特描述的那样，“就像黄油煎胶皮。”梅耶的母亲在喝马赛鱼汤时吃到一块他弄回来的章鱼肉，甚至被噎住了。
At Bar Sajor, Dillon has his own three-day-long octopus preparation ritual. He massages it with salt and lets it self-brine for 24 hours (“it really releases some of the muck”), then he rinses it and places it in a braiser with chunks of pork, halved lemons, peppers, whey and flowering dill. In his wood-fire oven, it takes on a new texture. (“It very much has a pork-shoulder quality to it when it’s been cooking for a long time — held together but stringy like brisket.”) Dillon then lets it rest for another day before returning it to the fire for a rustic finish. In a recent week, he plated the octopus segments on a dollop of smoked yogurt, nestled with wedges of lobster mushrooms, a smash of ember-roasted celeriac and a sprinkle of unopened nasturtium blossoms. It was a decadent, meaty dish.
在萨悠酒吧，迪伦烹饪章鱼肉的仪式长达3天。他先用盐抹遍章鱼，腌24个小时（“这样能腌渍出不少脏物”），然后冲洗干净，与猪肉块、切半的柠檬、辣椒、乳清和开花小茴香一起放进蒸锅。在他的木柴烤炉中，章鱼肉质发生变化。（“蒸了很久以后，它的肉质就很像猪的前腿肉——紧凑，又如同猪腩肉一样有筋道。”）迪伦然后把它再放一天，最后再放到炉火上以乡村风格做最后烘烤。最近某一周，他把章鱼肉放到一勺烟熏酸奶上，配以几片龙虾菇，一点点余烬烤熟的块根芹和一小把尚未开花的旱金莲花苞。这是一道丰盛的、颇有肉感的美食。
When the chef started experimenting with octopus, he used imported catch from the Sea of Japan. Eventually, though, he started talking to coastal fishermen about local octopus. His sardine supplier knew a black-cod fisherman who sometimes found octopus among his haul; Dillon asked for his number. (The state demands that trawl fishermen discard incidentally caught shellfish but not octopus and squid.) Now the fisherman sends Dillon a text message when he accidentally snares an octopus, and the chef purchases the bycatch for a sizable investment of $6 to $7 a pound. It’s about double the price of the small, imported ones at the fish market, but it tastes great.
这位大厨刚开始试验用章鱼肉做菜时，用的是进口的日本海章鱼。后来，他开始与近海渔夫聊起本地章鱼。他的沙丁鱼供应商认识一位捕捞黑鳕鱼的渔夫，有时候会在网里捕到章鱼。迪伦问到了他的电话（华盛顿州法律规定，拖网渔民偶然捕到贝类时必须丢回海里，但章鱼和乌贼不必丢弃）。如今，这位渔夫每次捕到章鱼时会给迪伦发个短信，大厨则以每磅6-7美元的高昂价格购买他的捕捞副产品。这几乎是渔市上卖的进口小章鱼价格的两倍，但本地章鱼口味绝佳。
This sort of sourcing deftly dodges unease about eating a beloved animal. Bycatch is a poorly managed resource, after all; it can account for six pounds of waste for every pound of shrimp caught. Eating it becomes less a question of “if something is already dead, what’s the harm in consuming it?” than “what could feel better than eating something that would otherwise be wasted?” And the small-scale, unpredictable nature of incidental catch is very much aligned with Bar Sajor’s ethos. “I’m willing to say: ‘If I have it, I have it. And if I don’t, I don’t,’ ” Dillon says.
如此购买章鱼的方式巧妙地避免了人们因吃掉自己喜爱的动物而带来的不安感。毕竟，渔获副产品的管理很糟糕；例如，每捕捞一磅虾而随之打捞上来的副产品多达6磅，都成为垃圾。把渔获副产品当做食物吃掉，不光是“它已经死了，吃掉有什么坏处？”的问题，更是一个“本来会被浪费的东西，吃掉又何乐而不为？”的问题。而渔获副产品这种小规模、难以预计的特点，更符合萨悠酒吧的理念。“这么说吧：‘如果有了就吃，如果没有那也没辙。’”迪伦说。
Dillon’s reputation as a seasonally shifting master locavore is well earned. He lives on a farm accessible only by ferry and knows where his food comes from (his backyard, mostly). Yet he says a blind adherence to “local” fare misses the point. “I don’t buy blackberries because they’re local. I buy blackberries from that farmer because they’re delicious, and I have yet to be shown a more delicious blackberry that I can get somewhere else and, at the same time, support my economy,” he says. “Sustainability and being local is not the part that interests me. I want to support it, and I want to support environmentalists, but I’m interested in supporting people and their welfare.” The community itself, in other words, is more important than where the food is from. Dillon suspects the uproar surrounding Mayer’s catch wasn’t really about sustainability; it was about the social context. “We don’t live in a culture where people go out and get octopus and then bring it in and eat it. This isn’t Marseille.” His issue with it, however, was simply that Mayer found this particular octopus in Elliott Bay, where the Duwamish River Superfund site drains.
作为一位精于烹饪本地产应季食材的大师，迪伦名不虚传。他住在一个只通渡轮的农场上，很清楚自己的食材来自何处（多数时候就是他的后院）。但是他说，如果盲目苛求“本地产”食物则得不偿失。“我不会专门购买本地黑莓。我向那位农夫购买黑莓，是因为他的黑莓味道鲜美，而其他地方产的黑莓都没有这么好；同时我还支持了本地经济，”他说。“可持续开发和产自本地并不是我感兴趣之处。我愿意支持本地食材，愿意支持环保人士，但我更感兴趣的是帮助他人，提升他们的福利。”换句话说，就是社区本身重于食物产地。迪伦认为，有关梅耶捕章鱼的争议并非出于保护自然环境，而是社会环境问题。“我们的文化并不认可人们出门捕杀猎物，然后带回家吃掉它。这里不是马赛（法国渔港）。”在他看来，此事的不妥之处仅仅在于梅耶捕章鱼的地点：埃利奥特湾是杜瓦米什河入海处（杜瓦米什河道两侧遍布工业区，100多年来受到严重污染。美国环保署已将这里定为依据《综合环境损坏赔偿法案》治理的重点区域）.
Mayer’s real offense may have been forcing a community to realize that just because they’ve embraced local fare doesn’t mean they’re necessarily ready to see, in gory detail, it slaughtered or hunted or punched out and dragged from the bay. Mayer, who learned as a kid to track and kill coyotes that threaten livestock, recognized this, too. “I’ve always been a woods person,” he says. “I don’t mind killing for my food. I do it a lot. I don’t really like going to the store at all. Some people are too modernized; they don’t realize when they go to the store, that was killed somewhere, generally by people like me.”
梅耶真正的错误也许在于迫使西雅图市民们面对这一现实：虽然他们号称支持本地食材，但他们并不一定有心理准备，看到本地章鱼被活生生从海湾里抓出来杀死的血腥场面。而梅耶从小就学会了如何追踪并猎杀对家畜构成威胁的北美土狼。他也认可这一点：“我从来都是个喜欢山野的人。我不在意为食物而打猎，我常常打猎。我根本不喜欢去商店买东西。有些人现代化过头了；他们没有意识到，当他们去商店买肉的时候，那些动物就是在其他地方，被像我这样的人杀掉的。”
In the end, though, the Fish and Wildlife department concluded that there was still value in protecting a species, if only as watchable wildlife. The advisory group had drafted a list of 30 popular dive sites, and the department decided to ban octopus harvesting in seven of them, including Cove 2. Earlier this month, the state designated these locations Octopus Protection Areas and published a map that acknowledges the handful of places where octopus may not be harvested. Washington hasn’t yet placed permanent signage at the protected areas, but it’s doubtful they need it. Seattle’s most notorious octopus hunter already knows the rules.
最终，华盛顿州鱼类与野生动物部的结论是，即便仅仅是作为可观赏的野生动物，巨型章鱼仍旧有保护的价值。在咨询小组列出的30个较受欢迎的潜水地点中，鱼类与野生动物部决定在其中七处禁止捕猎章鱼，其中包括2号小海湾。本月早些时候，华盛顿州将这七处地点命名为“章鱼保护区”，并且出版了标明禁止捕猎章鱼区域的地图。华盛顿州尚未在这些地点设立永久标志，但估计也没有必要了。西雅图最恶名远扬的章鱼猎人已经知道新规矩了。