After her 2011 graduation from Binghamton University in upstate New York, Anne Gole returned home to Tenafly, N.J.
安妮·戈莱(Anne Gole)2011年从纽约州北部的宾汉顿大学(Binghamton University)毕业后，就回到了老家新泽西州的特纳夫莱市(Tenafly)。
To her, doing so was far preferable to doing what her friends did — squeeze into tiny, pricey city rentals with roommates.
于她而言，这么做比效仿她朋友们的做法更好——他们都与室友们挤住在面积狭小，且价格昂贵的市内租赁公寓中。
Ms. Gole, analytical through and through, came of age during the financial crisis. “It was scary and it motivated me to work at something I was interested in,” she said. “While other kids were talking about happy hours, I was talking about mortgage rates.”
戈莱是在经济危机期间长大成人的，善于全方位地分析权衡。“这样的生活很可怕，也就让我有了动力，去研究一些自己感兴趣的事，”她说，“当其他年轻人都在谈论怎么玩儿的时候，我在讨论的是抵押贷款的利率。”
She studied finance and entrepreneurship, and now works at a large financial services company, focusing on mortgage-backed securities and real estate finance.
她学的是金融与创业，如今在一家大型金融服务公司工作，负责按揭证券与房地产金融。
Though Tenafly is not far from Manhattan as the crow flies, “it’s not as if you are teleporting right there, like you are on a zip line,” said Ms. Gole, who is 23. With no train, she endured an hourlong bus commute to Port Authority for her 12-hour workdays at her office in Times Square.
虽然特纳夫莱与曼哈顿的直线距离并不远，“但也没有像搭乘高空滑索一样，能把你直接传送到那儿，”23岁的戈莱说。由于没有火车，她得搭乘一个小时的公交车到港务局(Port Authority)，就是为了在时代广场(Times Square)她的那间办公室里，一天工作12个小时。
By late last fall, she had saved enough for a down payment and was ready to start the hunt.
到去年秋天即将过去的时候，她已经存够了一笔首付款，准备去找房了。
Her price was up to $450,000 for a spacious studio or one-bedroom co-op in a quiet East Side building with a doorman and elevator. She wanted good light and a window on the street. “There are some things money can buy, like a new kitchen,” she said. But other things were unchangeable — “like if your windows face a brick wall.”
她的预算最多为45万美元（约合人民币276万元），目标是在曼哈顿东区的一栋带门卫和电梯的安静建筑中，找一套宽敞的单间公寓或一套一居室的合作公寓。她想要一处光线充足、且有一扇窗户面对大街的地方。“有些东西是钱能买到的，比如一间崭新的厨房，”她说，但另外一些东西则是无法改变的——“比如，如果你的窗户对着一堵砖墙的话。”
It was also important that the building be sound financially and have no assessments, Ms. Gole said, “because assessments often mean trouble,” such as the consequences of deferred maintenance, or legal action.
还有一点非常重要，那就是这栋楼必须有良好的财务状况，没做过资产评估，戈莱说，“因为资产评估常常意味着情况不妙，”比如延期维护所造成的一些后果，或是法律诉讼什么的。
She worked with Rita Wolf, an agent at Fenwick Keats Real Estate.
她找到了Fenwick Keats房地产公司的一位经纪人丽塔·伍尔夫(Rita Wolf)。
“Anne had a good idea of what she wanted,” Ms. Wolf said. “She wasn’t fixated on being on 14th Street or below, as many young people are.” Actually, “she wanted to see whatever was out there,” and Ms. Wolf tried to “curb her desire to see every single possibility.”
“安妮很清楚自己想要什么，”伍尔夫说，“她没有像很多年轻人那样，要求一定要在14街或那个范围之内。”实际上，“不管有什么公寓，她都想看一看，”于是伍尔夫试图“抑制住她什么都想尝试一下的欲望。”
One early option was a one-bedroom in a nicely kept postwar building on East 61st Street, just blocks from Bloomingdale’s. The sunny apartment, far smaller than Ms. Gole had anticipated, was a for-sale-by-owner offering, priced at around $574,000. Maintenance was just under $1,300 a month.
最初有一个选择，是一套一居室公寓，在东61街一栋保存完好的战后建筑中，那里与布卢明代尔百货公司(Bloomingdale’s)只隔了几条街区。这套阳光充足的公寓比戈莱预期的要小得多，是由业主亲自出售的一套房产，价格约为57.4万美元（约合人民币352万元）。每月维护费不到1300美元（约合人民币7982元）。
“It gave her something to compare other things to,” Ms. Wolf said. “I thought it was overpriced.” It later sold for about $518,000.
“这让她有了考虑其它房源时的参照，”伍尔夫说，“我觉得这套公寓的要价太高了。”该公寓后来以51.8万美元（约合人民币318万元）的价格售出。
Nearby, on East 63rd Street, in a neighborhood Ms. Gole called “Bloomingdale’s East,” a sunny studio in another postwar co-op was $330,000, with monthly maintenance of around $800. But traffic from the Queensboro Bridge funneled onto the block. Ms. Gole, stuck in traffic, barely made it to the open house. The location deterred her, and the apartment needed more work than she was prepared to do.
距此不远，在东63街一个被戈莱称为“布卢明代尔东”的住宅区中，另一栋战后合作公寓楼里有一套阳光充足的单间公寓，价格33万美元（约合人民币203万元），每月维护费大约是800美元（约合人民币4912元）。但从皇后区大桥(Queensboro Bridge)至该街区的出入口经常被堵得水泄不通。结果戈莱被堵在了路上，几乎没赶上看房。这样的位置让她打消了其它念头，而且住进这套公寓还需要做很多工作，她并没做好那么多的准备。
She strayed briefly to the Gramercy area, but places there seemed small, dingy and expensive compared to those on the East Side. “You could really see the difference in prices,” Ms. Wolf said.
她在格莱美西区(Gramercy)稍微转了转，但那里的公寓似乎都窄小昏暗，而且价格比起曼哈顿东边那些住处，也特别地贵。“你的确能看出价格上的差距。”伍尔夫说。
Back uptown, she visited a 1937 co-op building on East 74th Street, a large studio in good condition with a dining area and a sunken living room.
回到上城区，她又看了东74街上的一栋1937年的合作公寓楼，那里有一套大面积的单间公寓，状况不错，还带一个餐厅区和一处下沉式客厅。
It was on a low floor and had that incurable defect, a brick wall right outside the windows. “It didn’t clear the building next door, so it wasn’t a view apartment,” Ms. Wolf said. “They did the best with what they had. It was a charming apartment.” It later sold for the listing price of $345,000. Maintenance was around $1,100 a month.
这套公寓处于较低的楼层，而且有个无法改善的缺陷，公寓的窗户外面就是一堵砖墙。“旁边挨着一栋楼，所以这不是一套带景观的公寓，”伍尔夫说，“他们在现有条件上已经做到了最好。这是一套非常有吸引力的公寓。”该公寓后来以34.5万美元（约合人民币212万元）的市场价格售出。其维护费是每月约1100美元（约合人民币6754元）。
With open houses scheduled every Sunday, Ms. Gole became frustrated and exhausted. She declined invitations to go out, telling her friends, “I have 10 open houses all lined up.”
由于每个星期天都安排了看房的事，戈莱不但灰心丧气，而且筋疲力尽。她拒绝了外出的邀约，并告诉她的朋友们，“还有十套公寓在等着我去看呢。”
One cold weekday evening last winter, she visited a postwar white-brick building in the “Bloomingdale’s East” neighborhood. There, she saw a one-bedroom with a sunny southern exposure. This one was $425,000, with monthly maintenance of a little more than $1,000.
去年冬天，在一个寒冷的工作日，她走访了“布卢明代尔东”住宅区中一栋白色砖墙的战后建筑。在那里，她看了一套一居室公寓，面朝南，阳光充足。这套公寓的价格是42.5万美元（约合人民币261万元），每月的维护费略高于1000美元（约合人民币6140元）。
At that time of day, many residents were home, “and I was listening, and it was so quiet,” she said. One floor down was a similar apartment, slightly larger, but it faced the back. “I like looking at the street,” Ms. Gole said. “I can see the sky.” The building had no underlying mortgage and no assessments.
在那个时间段，许多居民都在家里，“于是我仔细听了听，那个地方很安静，”她说。楼下是一套差不多的公寓，面积稍大一些，但面朝后方。“我喜欢看到街道，”戈莱说，“因为我可以看见天空。”这栋建筑没有优先抵押，也没有资产评估。
The place was everything she wanted. She offered $426,000 and a 35 percent down payment. “I thought that would make me more competitive,” she said.
这就是她想要的一切。于是，她出价42.6万美元（约合人民币262万元），并愿意首付35%。“我想那会让我更有竞争力。”她说。
It did. She closed in the spring, then spent a few months and $30,000 on upgrades, including floors, bathroom fixtures and kitchen appliances.
的确如此。她于今年春天完成了交易，然后又花了3万美元及几个月的时间来做装修，包括新铺了地面、更换了浴室设备，并换了新的厨房电器。
There were a few glitches, like a miscalculation about kitchen tiles, which almost ended up two different colors. Some closet doors don’t shut fully. And the sun is so bright that she often keeps the blinds drawn during the day.
当时还遇上了一些小麻烦，比如算错了厨房瓷砖的数量，结果差点弄成两种颜色；还有一些橱柜门不能关严。而且公寓里的阳光太强烈了，她常常得在白天合上百叶窗。