I WAS just about to go with a column that started like this: When they write the history of the global response to climate change, 2014 could well be seen as the moment when the balance between action and denial tipped decisively toward action. That’s thanks to the convergence of four giant forces: São Paulo, Brazil, went dry; China and the United States together went green; solar panels went cheap; and Google and Apple went home.
我本来给一篇专栏写了一个这样的开头：人们书写全球应对气候变化的历史之时，会把2014年看作一个转折点——行动还是逃避的天平，在这一年彻底地倒向了行动一边。这是四股巨大的力量共同发挥作用的结果：巴西圣保罗遭遇干旱；中美携手走绿色之路；太阳能组件价格下降；谷歌(Google)和苹果(Apple)涉足智能家居。
But before I could go further, the bottom fell out of the world oil price, and the energy economist Phil Verleger wrote me, saying: “Fracking is a technological breakthrough like the introduction of the PC. Low-cost producers such as the Saudis will respond to the threat of these increased supplies by holding prices down” — hoping the price falls below the cost of fracking and knocks some of those American frackers out. In the meantime, though, he added, sustained low prices for oil and gas would “retard” efforts to sell more climate-friendly, fuel-efficient vehicles that are helped by high oil prices and slow the shift to more climate-friendly electricity generation by wind and solar that is helped by high gas prices.
但还没等我做进一步论述，全球油价就急剧下跌，能源经济学家菲尔·威勒格(Phil Verleger)写信给我说：“水力压裂法是一个与个人电脑的推出类似的技术突破。沙特等低成本产油国，面对供给量增加的威胁，会以压低价格作为回应”——希望油价下降到水力压裂法的开采成本之下，从而把美国某些从事压裂开采的企业挤出市场。但他又补充说，石油和天然气价格持续低迷，将会“妨碍”推广节省能源的气候友好型车辆的努力，还会延缓向风力和太阳能发电等气候友好型发电方式转型的步伐——高油价则对这两件事有所帮助。
So I guess the lead I have to go with now is: When they write the history of the global response to climate change, 2014 surely would have been seen as the moment when the climate debate ended. Alas, though, world crude oil prices collapsed, making it less likely that the world will do what the International Energy Agency recently told us we must: keep most of the world’s proven oil and gas reserves in the ground. As the I.E.A. warned, “no more than one-third of proven reserves of fossil fuels can be consumed prior to 2050” — otherwise we’ll bust through the limit of a 2-degree Celsius rise in average temperature that scientists believe will unleash truly disruptive ice melt, sea level rise and weather extremes.
于是我想，我的文章得这样开头了：人们书写全球应对气候变化的历史之时，肯定应该把2014年看作一个转折点：有关气候的争论在这一年划上了句号。唉，不过，世界原油价格这么一暴跌，国际能源署(IEA)不久前提出的忠告就更不会有人听了：该机构告诫我们，必须把大部分已经探明的石油和天然气储量继续留在地下。IEA警告称，“在2050年之前，已探明的化石燃料储量，只能消耗不超过三分之一”，否则平均气温上升幅度就会突破2摄氏度阈值。科学家们认为，突破这个阈值将会带来冰层融化、海平面上升、极端天气频现等灾难性后果。
Technology is a cruel thing. The innovators who’ve made solar panels, wind power and batteries so efficient that they can now compete with coal and gas are the same innovators who are enabling us to extract oil and gas from places we never imagined we could go at prices we never imagined we would reach. Is a third lead sentence possible? There is. In fact, there is an amazing lead waiting to be written. It just takes the right political will. How so?
技术是一个残酷的东西。技术革新者让太阳能板、风力和电池变得如此高效，足以比肩煤炭和天然气，但也正是它们，让我们得以在从未想过自己竟能抵达的地方开采煤和天然气，而且我们也从未想过成本会如此低廉。还会有第三个开头吗？有。事实上，一个非常棒的开头正等着我把它写出来呢——只要表现出正确的政治意愿就行。为什么这样讲？
Let’s go back to my first lead. The reason I thought we were decisively tipping toward action was, in part, because of news like this from the BBC on Nov. 7 in São Paulo: “In Brazil’s biggest city, a record dry season and ever-increasing demand for water has led to a punishing drought.” When a metropolitan region of 20 million people runs dry because of destruction of its natural forests and watersheds, plus an extreme weather event scientists believe was made more intense by climate change, denialism is just not an option.
现在我们回到我最初的那个开头。我以为我们会果断地选择采取行动，部分是因为这种消息：11月7日，BBC报道圣保罗的状况时说：“在巴西最大的城市，这个季节出现了前所未见的旱情，加之人们对水的需求不断增长，导致了一场严重旱灾。”一座2000万人口的大都市，由于天然林和集水区遭到破坏，一旦出现极端天气事件，大家就无水可用。而且科学家认为，这种极端天气事件由于气候变化而加剧了。面对这种局面，没有否认的余地。
Then you have the hugely important deal that President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China struck on Nov. 12 under which the United States will reduce its carbon emissions 26 percent to 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025, and China will peak its carbon emissions by or before 2030. China also committed to build by 2030 an additional 800 to 1,000 gigawatts of clean power — or nearly as much new renewable energy in China as all the electrical capacity in America today. That will greatly spur innovation in clean tech and help do for solar, wind and batteries what China did for tennis shoes — really drive down global prices.
然后，在11月12日，奥巴马总统和中国国家主席习近平达成了一项非常重要的协议，到2025年，美国将把碳排放量在2005年水平的基础上减少26%至28%，中国的碳排放量将在2030年或之前开始下降。中国还承诺到2030年，新增800到1000兆千瓦清洁能源发电装机容量，也就是说中国新增的可再生能源，几乎相当于美国整体的发电能力。这将极大地推动清洁技术创新，有助于中国像影响网球鞋那样影响太阳能、风能和电池——真正压低全球价格。
Also, last February, Google bought Nest, for $3.2 billion. Nest makes a $250 smart thermostat that can save homeowners tons of money by learning their temperature preferences and automatically managing their air-conditioners and home heating systems for the greatest efficiency. Also this year, Apple announced the development of the Apple HomeKit, which will enable customers to remotely manage their appliances and home energy systems on their iPhones. When Apple and Google start competing to make homes more energy efficient, watch out. We will likely see nonlinear improvements.
此外，今年2月，谷歌斥资32亿美元收购了Nest。该公司生产一种250美元的智能恒温器，可以通过了解你对温度的喜好，来自动管理家里的空调和家庭供暖系统，帮你节省大笔费用。同样，苹果今年也宣布开发HomeKit，让用户可以用iPhone手机来远程管理自己的家电和家庭能源系统。请注意，苹果和谷歌展开了角逐，努力让居所变得更加节能。在这个领域可能会出现一些飞跃。
But what if Verleger is right — that just as the cost of computing dropped following the introduction of the PC, fracking technology could flood the world with cheaper and cheaper oil, making it a barrier to reducing emissions? There is one way out of this dilemma. Let’s make a hard political choice that’s a win for the climate, our country and our kids: Raise the gasoline tax.
但是，如果威勒格说对了——就像个人电脑推出后，计算成本下降一样，水力压裂技术也让全球油价变得越来越便宜，于是对减少排放量构成障碍——那该怎么办？有一个办法来摆脱这种困境，就是提高汽油税，这是一个艰难的政治选择，但它有利于气候，有利于我们的国家和我们的孩子。
“U.S. roads are crumbling,” said Verleger. “Infrastructure is collapsing. Our railroads are a joke.” Meantime, gasoline prices at the pump are falling toward $2.50 a gallon — which would be the lowest national average since 2009 — and consumers are rushing to buy S.U.V.’s and trucks. The “clear solution,” said Verleger, is to set a price of, say, $3.50 a gallon for gasoline in America, and then tax any price below that up to that level. Let the Europeans do their own version. “And then start spending the billions on infrastructure right now. At a tax of $1 per gallon, the U.S. could raise around $150 billion per year,” he said. “The investment multiplier would give a further kick to the U.S. economy — and might even start Europe moving.”
“美国的道路满是裂痕，”威勒格说。“基础设施正在溃败，我们的铁路是个笑话。”与此同时，汽油价格却急剧下跌到每加仑2.50美元（约合每升4.1元人民币）——这是2009年以来出现的最低全国均价——消费者正在竞相抢购运动型多功能汽车(SUV)和卡车。威勒格说，“很明显的解决方案”就是设置一个油价标准，比如每加仑3.50美元，对任何低于这个价格的汽油征税，直到达到3.50美元。欧洲也应该推出类似政策。“然后开始把数以十亿计的美元投资在基础设施上。每加仑1美元的税收，就可以让美国每年入账1500亿美元左右，”他说。“再加上投资乘数的作用，就可以进一步推动美国经济——甚至可能会启动欧洲经济。”