SEOUL, South Korea — The only North Korean defector in South Korea who has publicly said she wants to return to her home country, insisting that she arrived here by mistake, applied for political asylum at the Vietnamese Embassy in Seoul on Monday.
韩国首尔——韩国唯一一个公开表示想返回朝鲜的脱北者，坚称自己来到韩国是个错误。她在周一时向首尔的越南大使馆申请了政治庇护。
The woman, Kim Ryen-hi, 46, walked into the embassy and asked it to accept her as a refugee and to help her return to North Korea, said Christian pastors who accompanied her. More than two hours later, South Korean police officers, who entered the embassy at its request, escorted her out.
这名脱北者是46岁的金莲姬（Kim Ryen-hi，音）。陪同她的几名基督教牧师表示，金莲姬走进越南大使馆并要求对方以难民身分收留她、帮助她返回朝鲜。两个多小时过后，韩国警方应使馆要求进入其中并护送金莲姬离开。
“I told embassy officials that I wanted to stay in until they gave me asylum, but they insisted that I should wait outside until their government makes a decision,” Ms. Kim said after emerging from the building.
“我告诉大使馆官员说，我想要待在那里，直到他们同意庇护我为止。不过他们坚持，在他们的政府做出决定以前，我必须在外头等，”金莲姬从使馆出来以后说。
Breaking into tears before a group of reporters in front of the embassy, she said she feared that her request would be turned down, given her unwelcoming reception.
在越南大使馆门口，面对一群记者，金莲姬的眼泪夺眶而出，她说使馆的态度这么冷淡，让她很担心自己的请求会遭到拒绝。
At one point, she rushed back to the closed embassy gate and pounded on it, yelling, “I just want to go home to my old parents, to my daughter, to my husband.”
金莲姬一度冲回已经关上的使馆大门前，用力拍打并大叫：“我只想回家和年迈的爸妈，还有女儿和丈夫团聚！” 
The South Korean police said they planned to summon Ms. Kim to investigate whether she had stayed in the embassy illegally.
韩国警方表示他们会传唤金莲姬，以调查她是否用了违法手段在使馆内逗留。
“Our officials are trying to identify what is the problem, why she entered here,” Thuy Tran, a secretary to the Vietnamese ambassador, said by phone.
“我们的官员正在确认问题何在，还有她为什么要进入使馆，”越南驻韩国大使的秘书陈瑞（Thuy Tran，音）在电话中表示。
The episode on Monday was the latest strange twist in Ms. Kim’s life. More than 28,700 North Koreans have defected to the South since a deadly famine in their country in the mid-1990s. But she is the first to have entered a foreign embassy in Seoul in an attempt to obtain passage back.
周一的这则插曲为金莲姬的离奇经历再添一笔。自从朝鲜在90年代中期发生了惨绝人寰的饥荒之后，有超过2万8700名脱北者逃到了韩国。不过金莲姬是其中第一个为了寻求返乡途径而进入首尔的外国使馆的。
Ms. Kim, who was a dressmaker in the North, says that while on a trip to China in 2011, she met smugglers who promised to take her to South Korea, where they said she could make a lot of money quickly before returning home.
金莲姬在朝鲜时原本是裁缝，她声称自己是在2011年到中国旅行时，遇到了答应要带她前往韩国的蛇头。他们告诉金莲姬，她在韩国就能很快赚到大钱然后回到朝鲜。
But as soon as she arrived in the South, she demanded to return home. She said she realized that she had been cheated by the smugglers. With the help of sympathetic Christian pastors, she began a public campaign last year asking the South Korean government to let her go back to the North.
不过，一抵达韩国，金莲姬马上就要求返乡。她说她醒悟到自己被那些蛇头骗了。在同情她的基督教牧师帮助之下，金莲姬自去年开始公开寻求声援，请求韩国政府让她返回朝鲜。
After learning of her story, North Korea also demanded her repatriation.
在得知金莲姬的经历后，朝鲜政府也要求遣返她。
South Korea maintains that Ms. Park became a South Korean citizen because she signed papers of defection before and after her arrival here. Under South Korean law, it is illegal to help a citizen flee to the North.
不过，韩国政府仍然坚称金莲姬已经成为韩国公民，因为她在抵达韩国前后都签署了脱北的相关文件。而根据韩国法律规定，帮助该国公民逃往朝鲜是非法的。