VARNER, Ark. — They often enter in silence. They almost always leave that way, too.
阿肯色州瓦纳——他们通常沉默地进来，也几乎总是那样离开。
The death penalty holds a crucial, conflicted place in a nation deeply divided over crime and punishment, and whether the state should ever take a life. But for such a long, very public legal process, only a small number of people see what unfolds inside the country’s death houses.
在一个对犯罪、刑罚，以及政府是否该取人性命的问题上产生重大分歧的国家，死刑处在一个至关重要而又存在冲突的位置。然而，对于这样一个耗时漫长而又十分公开的法律程序，只有很少的一些人见证了这个国家的行刑室内发生了什么。
Witnesses hear a condemned prisoner’s last words and watch a person’s last breaths. Then they scatter, usually into the night. There is no uniformity when they look back on the emotions that surround the minutes when they watched someone die.
这些见证人倾听一名死刑犯最后所说的话，看到一个人最后的呼吸。然后他们散去——通常消失在夜色里。在回顾他们观看某人死亡那几分钟内的情绪时，每个人的反应各不相同。
The most recent person to be executed, Ledell Lee, died at the Cummins Unit here in southeast Arkansas late Thursday. By next Friday morning, the state hopes to have executed three more men.
最新被处决的犯人是莱德尔·李(Ledell Lee)，他上周四晚死于阿肯色州东南部的卡明斯监狱(Cummins Unit)。至本周五早上，该州希望能处死另外三名男子。
In separate phone interviews, five people who have witnessed executions — some years ago, one as recently as Mr. Lee’s — reflected on what they had seen and what it meant to them.
在单独接受电话采访时，五个曾经目击行刑过程的人——有些是在几年前，其中一人是在最近莱德尔·李被处决时——回想了自己当时看到的景象，思考这对他们而言意味着什么。
The interviews have been condensed and edited.
访谈内容经过了删减与编辑。
Charles E. Coulson
查尔斯·E·库尔森(Charles E. Coulson)
Witnessed two executions as prosecuting attorney for Lake County, Ohio
作为俄亥俄州莱克县检察官，观看了两次行刑。
In both cases, I was invited by the family to attend. The victim advocates sit down the night before, and you meet with them at dinner, and they go over step by step what’s going to happen. They draw diagrams and show you where the death chamber is, where the defendant is going to be, where the defendant’s family is going to be.
这两次，我都是被家属要求到场。受害者权益维护者会在前一天晚上找地方坐下来，你和他们一起吃晚饭，他们会一步步地讲述将会发生什么。他们会画示意图，让你看行刑室在什么地方，被告会在哪儿，被告的家人待在什么地方。
You’re watching through glass, and then the process starts.
你是隔着玻璃观看，然后程序就开始了。
They had a chance to offer last statements, and I was disgusted because they were so self-serving, narcissistic statements for these people who had caused so much pain and suffering.
他们有机会讲自己的遗言，我当时觉得有些厌恶，因为对造成了如此大痛苦与磨难的人来说，这些是十分自私自利、自命不凡的声明。
We were just waiting for the signal; one time, it was when the warden touched his glasses. You’re looking at the clock, but you’re mostly watching the defendant, watching to see if he’s still breathing or not. It is very quiet and respectful.
我们就在那里等着信号；有一次，是以监狱长碰碰自己的眼镜为信号。你的目光注视着钟表，但你主要是在看被告，看他是否还有呼吸。现场非常安静、有礼。
These were two evil people, and their executions did not bother me at all. It’s what I thought they deserved. I don’t think about it much. It was done. It should have been done. I don’t really think about it.
这两个都是恶人，对他们的处决一点也不会让我感到困扰。我认为他们罪有应得。不太去考虑。这事已经过去了。而且应该如此。我真的不太想这事。
Gayle Gaddis
盖尔·加迪(Gayle Gaddis)
Mother of Guy P. Gaddis, a murdered Houston police officer
被谋杀的休斯顿警察盖伊·P·加迪(Guy P. Gaddis)的母亲
I wanted to be sure it was finished, and that’s why I went.
我想确定这件事真的有了了结，这是我过去的原因。
Before the execution, we were in a room without a clock. It’s a terrible experience. We were there, it seemed, like hours, while they were making sure he didn’t get a stay. We were all just miserable.
在行刑之前，我们待在一个没有钟表的房间。那是一次可怕的经历。在他们确保他没有得到缓刑时，我们在那里等着，似乎等了有几个小时。我们只觉得难受极了。
Then the warden came in and said, “Good news: There are no stays, and he’s going to be gone,” or something like that.
然后监狱长进来说，“好消息：没有缓刑，他会上路”，或诸如此类的话。
I went in the room, and I saw him strapped on that gurney. Then I couldn’t watch it. They gave me a chair, and I just turned it the other way. One son was kind of hitting his elbow against the glass. My other son asked why he was doing that. He said, “I want him to look at me.”
我走进房间，看到他被绑在轮床上。然我就看不下去了。他们给了我一把椅子，我把它转向了另一边。我的一个儿子在拿肘部撞玻璃。另一个问他为什么那样。他说，“我想让他看着我。”
Edgar Tamayo was his name, and he wouldn’t look or speak or anything. I was hoping he’d say, “I’m sorry,” but he wouldn’t even look at us.
他的名字叫埃德加·塔马约(Edgar Tamayo)，他不愿看、说话或做任何事。我当时期待他能说声“对不起”，但他连看也不愿看我们。
Jennifer Garcia
珍妮弗·加西亚(Jennifer Garcia)
Assistant federal defender in Phoenix who witnessed one execution
菲尼克斯助理联邦辩护律师，目睹过一场处决过程
He was my client. His name was Richard Stokley, and he was executed in December 2012.
他是我的委托人，名叫理查德·斯托克利(Richard Stokley)，在2012年12月被处死。
Often for our clients, they didn’t have people they could depend on, or who fought for them. Once we get on a case, we will stay on it, usually, until the end.
我们的委托人往往没什么人可以依靠，也没人为他们抗争。一旦我们接手一个案件，通常就会一直跟着，直到最后。
The reason why we witnessed was, he asked us to. If he needed reassurance, he’d be able to see one of us smile at him.
我们之所以去看，是因为他请求我们去。如果他需要安慰，会看到我们中有人对他微笑。
By the time we got in there and walked into the witness room, I was just so tired, and I was so emotional, and I knew I had to hold it together for him, and I had to make sure he was O.K. through the process.
等到了那里，走进观察室的时候，我感觉非常累，而且情绪有点激动，不过我知道，为了他，我必须冷静下来，我必须确保他能好好走完这个过程。
The execution itself was surreal. I cannot even tell you how unbelievable it was to see people deliberately get ready to kill your client. With Mr. Stokley, they couldn’t find a vein. We just sat there for a long time while they started with his hands and worked their way around the body, trying to get a vein. I was trying to maintain my composure because I didn’t want him to look at me and seeing me upset or crying. But it was so hard to watch somebody do that to your client and be powerless.
行刑过程本身非常不真实。我甚至无法形容，看着人们小心翼翼地为杀死你的委托人做准备，有多么不可思议。斯托克利的情况是，他们在他身上找不到一条可以进行静脉注射的血管。我们在那里坐了好久，看着他们从他的手开始，试遍全身，试图找到一根可以扎针的静脉。我一直在努力保持镇静，因为我不想让他看我，不想让他看到我在难过或哭泣。但看着有人对你的委托人做那样的事，自己却又无能为力，真是不好过。
Marine Glisovic
马里内·格利绍维奇(Marine Glisovic)
Reporter for KATV in Little Rock, Ark., and a media witness for Thursday’s execution of Ledell Lee
阿肯色州小石城KATV电视台记者，上周四莱德尔·李行刑过程的媒体见证人
You walk in, and all the seats are to your left. It’s almost set up like a mini-movie theater. We walked up to the front because there were three seats left open for us. There was a black curtain in front of four window panels.
你走进去，所有的椅子都在你的左侧。布置得几乎像一个迷你电影院。我们走到前排，因为那里有三个座位是留给我们的。四扇玻璃窗前挂着黑色的窗帘。
They peeled back the curtain, and the inmate is lying down already, and he’s got an IV in each arm. He’s horizontal before us. He stared up the entire time. When they peeled that curtain down, they turned the lights off in our room, the witness room, so the only thing that was lit up was the chamber.
他们拉开窗帘，犯人已经躺在里面，两只胳膊上都插着针管。他在我们面前平躺着，整个过程都直视着上方。窗帘拉开的时候，他们把我们所在的观察室的灯熄灭了，所以唯一亮着的地方就是行刑室。
As it’s going on, it’s quiet. No one’s saying anything. It was very sterile and clinical. It was like watching somebody be put to sleep, if you will.
行刑过程中，现场很安静。没有人说话。场面十分平淡，也都没什么情绪。你甚至可以说像在观看某人被催眠。
We had an hour-and-a-half drive home. I got into Little Rock, stopped at the station, got into my car. It wasn’t until I got to my friend’s house that night, it hit me as a person, once I’d gotten out of the journalism mode. I don’t even know how to describe how it hit me.
然后我们坐一个半小时车回家。我进入小石城，在车站停下，钻进我的车。直到那天晚上到达朋友家里，跳出记者思维，我才猛然意识到那是个人。我甚至不知道该怎么描述它对我的冲击。
The Rev. Carroll L. Pickett
卡罗尔·L·皮克特牧师(The Rev. Carroll L. Pickett)
He witnessed 95 executions while he was a prison chaplain in Texas
在德克萨斯州担任监狱牧师期间，他目睹了95次处决
One time, we had three nights in a row. They’d come in in the morning, and we’d do three executions on consecutive nights. Putting people through that is terrible.
有一次，我们连着三个晚上都有处决。他们早上过来，我们连着三个晚上进行三场处决。让人们承受这样的事是很可怕的。
I’ve seen a reporter pass out. He was about 6-foot-4. I’m on the inside in the death chamber itself, but I have a mirror, and I could see him just go collapse on the back row. And the major couldn’t take him out because the law says you can’t open the door until it’s over.
我曾经看到一名记者昏倒。他身高近2米。我当时是在行刑室里，但那里有一面镜子，我可以看到他在后排就那么晕了过去。大家不能带他出去，因为法律规定在处决程序结束前不能开门。
That’s one of the byproducts that people don’t realize. Family members get sick. Witnesses get sick. Some of my best guards who were with them all day long — they got sick. The warden changed it to where I would have the same guys all day long, and those are the ones that just eventually had what they called a nervous breakdown, which I just think is horrible — to see some good-looking captains and lieutenants leave the system because they just can’t do executions. It affects everyone, one way or another.
这是人们意识不到的后果之一。家属的身体会出现状况。见证人会出现状况。我身边一些整天和他们待在一起的警卫也会出现不适。监狱长作出调整，使我每天都会和同一批人一起工作，这些人最终也出现了人们所说的精神崩溃，我觉得这糟透了——看到一些很棒的上尉和中尉离开这个体系，就因为他们无法执行处决。它会影响所有人，不是以这种方式，就是以那种方式。