I was born in 1970, on the heels of the civil rights movement. I didn’t witness my parents’ struggles and their parents’ struggles before them. What I knew of darker days I learned in school, read in books or saw on television. Therefore, as a matter of circumstance, there existed a space between that reality and me. It was more pedagogical than experiential.
我出生于1970年，民权运动结束后不久。我没能亲眼目睹自己父母的抗争，以及那之前的他们父母的抗争。只能通过上学、看书、看电视，来了解那些黑暗的岁月。因此，出于成长环境的原因，我和那段历史的真实事件之间其实是有隔膜的。它存在于书本之上，而非我的实际经验之中。
As a young man, I could connect my current circumstances and present societal conditions intellectually to previous ones and form a long-arching narrative of undeniable progress from slavery to Reconstruction to Jim Crow to mass incarceration to me. But that narrative was developed in the mind. Not, more innately, written by personal tribulation or authored by the shock and horror of real events happening in real time — my time — so that the mind and spirit could unite in moral outrage and the voice lift in anguished outcry.
作为一个年轻人，我可以在思维当中把自己的现状以及当前的社会状况同从前的社会状况联结起来，形成一条长长的、以不可否认的进步为主题的叙事弧：从奴隶制到南北战争后的重建时期，到吉姆·克劳(Jim Crow)，到大规模监禁，再到我自己。可是，整个故事都是在头脑里衍生出来的，而非以自身的苦难或者实时发生在我的时代的真实事件所引发的震惊和恐惧自然而然写就，从而让头脑和内心能在道德上的愤慨和痛苦的大声疾呼之中凝聚在一起。
That changed when I reached a series of racial-justice maturation moments, two of which are particularly relevant to our current cultural discussion in this country.
这种情况有所改变，是在我经历了一系列种族正义意识不断深化的事件之后。其中两起事件与美国人眼下正在进行的文化讨论尤为息息相关。
One came in 1991, when I was 20 years old. Rodney King was savagely beaten — on video — by Los Angeles police officers. The video showed “officers taking turns swinging their nightsticks like baseball bats at the man and kicking him in the head as he lay on the ground early Sunday,” as The New York Times put it at the time.
第一起发生在1991年，我20岁的时候。罗德尼·金(Rodney King)遭到了洛杉矶警员的野蛮殴打——有录像为证。《纽约时报》当时的报道称：录像显示，“周日凌晨，警员们像挥舞棒球棒一样轮流抡起警棍招呼这个男人，并在他倒地后用脚踹他的头。”
Earlier in the day, before the beating, one of the officers who participated had typed a message on a computer terminal in a squad car, referring to a domestic dispute among blacks this way: “Sounds almost as exciting as our last call. It was right out of ‘Gorillas in the Mist.’ ”
当天早些时候，围殴发生前，一名参与其中的警员在警车里的电脑终端上输入了一条信息，提及了黑人群体内部的一场争端。他是这样说的：“听起来就像最后集结令一样令人兴奋。简直是《雾中猩猩》(Gorillas in the Mist)里的情节啊。”
One of the officers reportedly said of King and the beating during an internal affair interview: “It’s like he’s looking at me, doesn’t see me, he’s just looking right through me,” reasoning that King was under the influence of PCP. (Testing of King showed no PCP.)
据报道，一名警员在接受内部事务调查时如此提到金和这场围殴：“他好像在看我，但又没看到我，他盯着我却仿佛我并不存在。”该警员由此推测，金吸食或注射过普斯普剂(PCP)。（药检结果显示，金体内并没有PCP。）
This is reminiscent of the dehumanizing language used by Darren Wilson, who shot and killed Michael Brown in Ferguson,Mo. Wilson testified about Brown: “He looked up at me and had the most intense aggressive face. The only way I can describe it, it looks like a demon, that’s how angry he looked.”
这让人不禁联想起，在密苏里州的弗格森击毙迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)的达伦·威尔逊(Darren Wilson)使用的那些人性淡漠的言辞。威尔逊在证词中这样描述布朗：“他抬头看着我，脸上的表情是最为好斗的那种。我只能这么形容，我仿佛见到了一个魔鬼，他看起来就是这么狂暴。”
The four Los Angeles police officers were acquitted of assault.
袭击金的四名洛杉矶警员被判人身侵犯罪名不成立。
Six years after those acquittals, a black man named James Byrd Jr. was attacked by three white men, beaten, urinated on, tied by the ankle to the back of their truck, dragged on the asphalt and decapitated by a culvert.
这些人被判无罪的六年后，三名白人袭击了一个名叫小詹姆斯·伯德(James Byrd Jr.)的黑人。他们殴打他，朝他身上小便，把他的脚踝绑在卡车后边，在沥青路面上拖拽他。拖拽过程中，一个涵洞让他的脑袋和身体分了家。
After that, I was acutely aware of what W. E. B. Du Bois, in “The Souls of Black Folk,” called the “double consciousness”:
那之后，我对W·E·B·杜波依斯(W. E. B. Du Bois)在《黑人的灵魂》(The Souls of Black Folk)一书中提到的那种“双重意识”有了深切的认识。
“One ever feels his two-ness, — an American, a Negro; two thoughts, two unreconciled strivings; two warring ideals in one dark body, whose dogged strength alone keeps it from being torn asunder.”
“一个人永远觉得有两个自我，一个是美国公民，另一个是黑鬼；永远觉得有两种思维、两种不可调和的力量在缠斗；永远觉得黑色的身体里存在两种相互抵触的理念——多亏拥有顽强的意志力，这个身体才没有四分五裂。”
After that, all innocence inculcated and nurtured by the distance of history and the dreamy visions of perpetual progress melted. A new, harsher sensibility and an endless searching for social justice formed in its place.
后来，因为历史的隔膜和永恒进步的美好幻觉而得以萌发并保持的一派天真无邪消失不见了。取而代之的，是更为敏锐的感知力，以及对社会正义的无尽求索。
I knew then that whatever progress might have been made in previous generations would not continue as a matter of perpetual momentum, but rather as a matter of constant pushing.
我那时明白了，不管先辈取得了怎样的进步，都不会永无止境地自动延续下去，而是需要不断地加以推动。
So I deeply understand and appreciate the feelings of the protestors — particularly the young ones — who have taken to the streets with outrage and outcry in cities across this great country over the Michael Brown and Eric Garner cases.
因此，想到那些抗议者因为迈克尔·布朗和埃里克·加纳的案子而走上我们伟大国家各座城镇的街头，满腔愤慨地大声疾呼，尤其是其中的年轻人，我深切地理解并体谅他们的感受。
I even understand the sentiments, recorded by recent polls, that a majority in this country believe race relations are getting worse and that more than a third think police-minority relations are getting worse.
就连近期的民调呈现的那种情绪，我也能够理解。民调结果显示，多数美国民众相信，种族之间的关系正在恶化，还有逾三分之一的人认为，警方与少数族裔之间的关系正在恶化。
Obviously, in the long sweep of history, no one could make such a claim. Race relations are certainly not worse than they were 50 or 100 or 400 years ago, but there is nagging frustration that things haven’t progressed as fast as many had hoped. And change, rightly or wrongly, is often measure relative to the recent past rather than to the distant one.
显然，若是从大的历史维度来看，决不能做出这样的论断。目前的种族关系肯定不比50年、100年或400年前差。然而，困扰我们的是，事情并未如我们期望的那样迅速进步。无论对错，变革往往是与不久前的过去比较的，而不是遥远的历史。
Furthermore, for young people in their late teens or early 20s, like my children, whose first real memory of presidential politics was the election of the first African-American president, any seeming racial retrenchment is jarring, and for them, over the course of their lifetimes, things can feel like they are getting worse.
还有，那些20岁上下的年轻人，比如我的子女，对总统政治的首次深切记忆来自第一位非洲裔美国总统的当选。在他们看来，在种族问题上任何表面的倒退都是一种冲击，而在他们的一生中，或许就是会感觉情况在恶化。
This is their experiential moment, that moment when the weight becomes too much, when the abstract becomes real, when expectations of continual, inexorable progress slam into the back of a slow-moving reality, plagued by fits and starts and sometimes prone to occasional regressions.
现在到了他们亲身实践的时刻了。在这样的关头，负担变得太过沉重；抽象的话题变成了现实；对势不可挡的持续进步的期待一头撞上了慢慢吐吐的现实，那种走走停停、还不时倒退的现实。