All presidential candidates face a core problem. To win their party’s nomination in an age of growing polarization they have to adopt base-pleasing, pseudo-extreme policy positions. But to win a general election and actually govern they have to adopt semi-centrist majority positions.
所有总统候选人都面临一个核心问题。在这个两极分化日益严重的时代，为了赢得党内提名，他们必须在政策上选取一个取悦选民的、伪极端的政策立场。但是，要赢得大选并真正去执政，他们不得不采取准中间路线的多数派立场。
How can one person do both?
同一个人怎样才能站在两种立场上呢？
Nobody had figured this out until, brilliantly, Hillary Clinton. She is campaigning on a series of positions that she transparently does not believe in. She’ll say what she needs to say now to become Bernie Sanders in a pantsuit (wait, Bernie Sanders already wears a pantsuit!). Then, nomination in hand and White House won, she will, it appears, transparently flip back and embrace whatever other positions she doesn’t believe in that will help her succeed in her new role.
之前没有人想通这一点，直到希拉里·克林顿找出了一个绝妙的方法。在竞选活动中，她站在了一种她明显不相信的立场上。为了变成穿裤装的伯尼·桑德斯(Bernie Sanders)，她什么都会说（等等，伯尼·桑德斯已经穿裤装了！）。而等提名到手，当选总统之后，她似乎就会老老实实地转回去，站到其他立场上，那些立场她同样不信，只是她认为会有助于自己成功扮演这个新角色。
In other words, one of the causes of polarized gridlock and political dysfunction is that we have too many politicians with ideological convictions. Clinton seems to be eliding this problem.换句话说，出现两极僵局和政治失灵的原因之一，就是我们有太多的政界人士信念太坚定。克林顿似乎没有这个问题。 Her most impressive elision concerns trade, the Trans-Pacific Partnership. When she announced her opposition to Judy Woodruff on the “PBS NewsHour” she was performing a flip-flop of the sort that leaves gymnasts gaping and applauding. As CNN pointed out, she’s praised the deal 45 separate times, at one point calling it “the gold standard in trade agreements.”
她最令人难忘的一次表演和贸易有关，涉及跨太平洋伙伴关系（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）。当她在“PBS新闻时间”节目中向朱迪·伍德拉夫(Judy Woodruff)表示反对TPP时，她是在完成一次让体操运动员都得惊叹、鼓掌的后手翻。正如CNN指出，她曾在45个不同的场合称赞过TPP，一度称之为“贸易协定中的黄金标准”。
This was not only a substantive flip-flop. It was so naked it amounted to a bold and clarion statement of faith on behalf of flip-flopping itself. It suggested a whole style of campaigning and method of governing based on the principle of unprincipledness.
这不仅仅是一次实实在在的后手翻。她翻得如此不加遮掩，简直是用一场无畏而响亮的宣言表达自己对后手翻这一动作的信念。它显示了一整套基于无原则的原则建立起来的竞选风格和执政手法。
In order to navigate her way through the wilds of politics and the morass of an ungovernable nation, she’ll do whatever she needs to do, say whatever needs to be said and fight for whatever constituency is most useful at the moment.
为了在政治荒野和这个无从治理的国家沼泽中找到出路，她会去做一切必要的事，说一切必要的话，以争取目前最有用的选民阵营的支持。
She’ll get things done. (Whatever those things happen to be.)
她会把事办成（无论这些事情是什么）。
This flexibility has become something of a leitmotif. The most exhaustively reported account of her various policy adjustments comes from Evan Popp, a journalism student at Ithaca College who documented Clinton’s shifts while he interned at the Institute for Public Accuracy. He has collected Clinton’s statements on either side of various issues.
灵活性已经成为一种复现的主题。埃文·波普(Evan Popp)对克林顿各种政策调整进行了最为详尽的陈述，这名来自伊萨卡学院(Ithaca College)的新闻专业学生在公共准确度研究所(Institute for Public Accuracy)实习时记录了克林顿的转变。他搜集了克林顿在各种问题上发表过的对立性声明。
In 2000 she supported the Defense of Marriage Act, though now she is pro-gay marriage. In the 1990s she was for more incarceration. “We need more prisons to keep violent offenders for as long as it takes to keep them off the streets.” Now she’s against mass incarceration.
2000年，她支持《捍卫婚姻法案》(Defense of Marriage Act)，尽管她现在支持同性婚姻。在20世纪90年代，她支持更多的监狱徒刑。“我们需要更多监狱关押暴力罪犯，只要能让他们别再出现在街上。”如今，她却反对大规模监禁。
In 2007 she was against allowing undocumented immigrants to have driver’s licenses. Now she supports them. In 2002, she was against ethanol subsidies, but now she’s bullish.
2007年，她反对允许非法移民获得驾照。如今她是支持的。2002年，她反对乙醇补贴政策，但现在却看好它。
We all get to change our mind in response to the facts, but each of these intellectual inquiries happens to have led her in a politically convenient direction.
面对事实，我们都可以改变主意，但她的所有这些思维探索，恰好每一次都能将她带到一个政治上有利的方向。
This deftness could, if used wisely, help Clinton placate the left in order to get the nomination and then placate the powerful in order, as president, to pass legislation. By contrast, if a conviction politician like Sanders or Ben Carson got elected, he wouldn’t be able to get 35 votes for anything he proposed.
这种技巧——如果使用得当——可以帮助克林顿安抚左派，以获得提名，当选总统后又可以安抚权势人物以通过立法。相比之下，如果桑德斯或本·卡森(Ben Carson)等抱有执着信念的政治人士当选，他的任何提案都拿不到35票。
But there are downsides to the Opportunist Solution. First, politically. The Clinton theory of the campaign seems to be that people vote on the basis of what policy a candidate can deliver or what interest group he or she kowtows to. But it could be that voters actually vote on the basis of authenticity and trustworthiness. In that case, Clinton could be hurt by the fact that only 35 percent of, say, Floridians think she is honest and trustworthy, according to a Quinnipiac poll, whereas, just to pick a random name, 71 percent think that of Joe Biden.
但这种机会主义者的解决方案存在缺点。首先是政治上。克林顿的竞选理论依据似乎是，人们会根据候选人能够施行的政策，或者他或她屈从的利益集团来进行投票。但选民实际上可能根据真实性和可靠度来投票。在这种情况下，克林顿可能会吃亏，昆尼皮亚克大学(Quinnipiac University)的民调显示只有大约35%的佛罗里达人认为她可靠可信，而随机抽样发现，71%的人认为乔·拜登(Joe Biden)可信。
Second, as a matter of practical governing, it’s hard to organize an administration around an uncertain trumpet. Administrations generally work best when everybody on the team knows consistently what the president stands for. As the old wisdom goes, the problem with pragmatism is that it doesn’t work.
其次，从实际管理来看，很难组织一个以无常的、喜欢吹嘘的人为中心的政府。当工作团队的每个人一致了解总统支持什么时，政府通常最高效。老话说得好，实用主义的问题在于它不好用。
Third, there’s the humanitarian issue. Clinton once supported the Pacific trade deal for good reason. According to a report from the Peterson Institute for International Economics, the deal would bolster U.S. gross domestic product growth and jobs over the next decade. It would lift Malaysian growth by 6.6 percent and Vietnamese growth by 14 percent. If Clinton’s flip-flop ends up sinking the deal, she will have helped sentence millions of people to further poverty and destabilized the world’s most dynamic region.
最后是人道主义问题。克林顿曾有充分的理由支持亚太贸易协定。彼得森国际经济研究所(Peterson Institute for International Economics)的一份报告称，该协定在未来十年会促进美国国内生产总值的增长及就业市场的发展。该协定会将马来西亚及越南的增长率分别推高6.6%和14%。如果克林顿的转变最终致使协议崩塌，她将会在一定程度上促使数百万人遭受更加严重的贫困，破坏世界最具活力的地区的稳定性。
Still, it would be interesting to see how government by flip-flop might work. If we had a president hopping opportunistically from issue to issue, that might disrupt our ossified landscape and tear down the old-fashioned partisan walls.
但看看由变来变去的人领导的政府如何运转会很有趣。如果我们的总统见机行事地处理一个又一个问题，这可能会颠覆已经僵化的局面，拆毁老式的党派藩篱。
In an era of polarization and dysfunction, maybe authenticity, conviction, consistency and principle are the hobgoblins of little minds!
在这个两极分化和运转失灵的时代，或许可靠性、坚定的信念、一致性和原则才是目光短浅的心魔！