When and how long a baby looks at other people’s eyes offers the earliest behavioral sign to date of whether a child is likely to develop autism, scientists are reporting.
科学家们表示，婴儿何时注视其他人的眼睛，能持续多久，提供了其是否有可能出现自闭症迄今为止最早期的行为学信号。
In a study published Wednesday, researchers using eye-tracking technology found that children who were found to have autism at age 3 looked less at people’s eyes when they were babies than children who did not develop autism. But contrary to what the researchers expected, the difference was not apparent at birth. It emerged in the next few months and autism experts said that might suggest a window during which the progression toward autism can be halted or slowed.
在周三发表的一篇文章中，研究人们利用眼球追踪技术发现，那些在3岁时确诊患自闭症的孩子，相比没有患上自闭症的孩子，在襁褓中注视人眼睛的次数较少。但跟研究人员预测的正好相反，这种差异并没有在婴儿出生时显现出来，而是在出生几个月后有所表现，自闭症专家说，这意味着在发展到自闭症阶段期间，可能还存在着一个窗口，可以中止或延缓病情发展。
The study, published online in the journal Nature, found that infants who later developed autism began spending less time looking at people’s eyes between 2 and 6 months of age and paid less attention to eyes as they grew older. By contrast, babies who did not develop autism looked increasingly at people’s eyes until about 9 months old, and then kept their attention to eyes fairly constant into toddlerhood.
这份在线发表于《自然》(Nature)杂志的研究发现，那些后期被确诊为自闭症的婴儿，在2-6个月时较少注视人们的眼睛，而且随着年龄增长，对别人眼睛的注意力越来越小。相比之下，未出现自闭症的婴儿注视他人眼睛的时间越来越长，这种上升趋势直到9个月大时才停止，而且直到幼儿阶段，仍然可以专注地凝视别人眼睛。
“This paper is a major leap forward,” said Dr. Lonnie Zwaigenbaum, a pediatrician and autism researcher at the University of Alberta, who was not involved in the study. “Documenting that there’s a developmental difference between 2 and 6 months is a major, major finding.”
“这篇论文是一大飞跃，”并未参与这项研究的朗尼·泽威根鲍姆(Lonnie Zwaigenbaum)说。他是加拿大阿尔伯塔大学(University of Alberta)儿科医生、自闭症研究人员。“它记录下了2-6月龄婴儿的发展变化，是一个非常非常大的发现。”
The authors, Warren R. Jones and Ami Klin, both of the Marcus Autism Center and Emory University, also found that babies who showed the steepest decline in looking at people’s eyes over time developed the most severe autism.
论文作者沃伦·琼斯(Warren R. Jones)和艾米·克林(Ami Klin)两人都来自马库斯自闭症中心(Marcus Autism Center)和艾默里大学(Emory University)，两人的研究还发现，那些随着年龄增长，注视他人双眼的时间出现最剧烈衰退的婴儿，患上的自闭症最为严重。
“Kids whose eye fixation falls off most rapidly are the ones who later on are the most socially disabled and show the most symptoms,” said Dr. Jones, director of research at the autism center. “These are the earliest known signs of social disability, and they are associated with outcome and with symptom severity. Our ultimate goal is to translate this discovery into a tool for early identification” of children with autism.
“眼部注视衰退最快的孩子，在日后的社交能力上遇到的障碍最大，而且显现出的症状也最多，”马库斯自闭症中心的研究主管琼斯说：“这是目前已知有关社交障碍最早期的症状，而这与病情结果与症状严重程度都有关联。我们的最终目的是要利用这个发现来开发一种工具，用于早期甄别”自闭症儿童。
The eye-tracking differences are not something parents and pediatricians would be able to perceive without the technology and expertise of an autism clinic, Dr. Jones said. “We don’t want to create concern in parents that if a child isn’t looking them in the eyes all the time, it’s a problem,” he said. “It’s not. Children are looking all over the place.”
如果没有自闭症中心的技术与专业支持，家长和儿科医生是无法观察到婴儿眼部注视的区别的。琼斯医生说：“我们不想让家长担心，觉得如果宝宝没有一直盯着自己的眼睛看，就会有问题，”他说：“不是这样的，孩子们会看各种各样的地方。”
Autism therapies have not yet been developed for young babies, but there are efforts to adapt intensive behavioral therapy for use with children as young as 12 months, Dr. Jones said.
据琼斯说，自闭症治疗现在的开发程度还不够高，无法适用于婴儿，但现在人们已经在努力，希望能为最小只有12个月的婴儿提供强化行为治疗。
Diagnoses of autism have increased, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, from one child in 150 in 2002 to one in 88 in 2008. The reasons are unclear, although some factors could be greater awareness of the disorder and a growing number of older fathers.
据美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)数据，自闭症的确诊病例在不断增加，从2002年的每150个儿童中一名增加到2008年的每88个儿童中一名。其中原因并不明朗，不过有些因素可能起到了作用，比如人们对这种障碍症有了更多的了解，年纪较长的爸爸数目也越来越多。
Dr. Jones and Dr. Klin, who directs the autism center, studied two groups of babies. One group was at high risk for autism, with a 20 times greater likelihood of developing it because they had siblings with the disorder. The other group was at low risk, with no relatives with autism.
琼斯和自闭症中心主任克林对两组婴儿进行了研究。其中一组是自闭症高危组，由于他们的哥哥或姐姐患有自闭症，他们患上这种障碍症的可能性比普通婴儿高出了20倍。另一组是低危组，家中没有亲戚患自闭症。
The researchers assessed 110 children, from 2 months to 2 years of age, 10 times while watching videos of friendly women acting like playful caregivers. Eye-tracking technology traced when the babies looked at the women’s eyes, mouths and bodies, as well as toys or other objects in the background. At age 3, the children were evaluated for autism. Ultimately, researchers used data from 36 boys, 11 of whom developed autism. (They excluded data from girls because only two developed autism.)
研究人员评估了110个从2个月到2岁大的婴幼儿，让他们观看表情友好的女性扮演可爱的看护者的视频，然后将录得的片断用10倍慢速播放。当婴儿注视女性的双眼、嘴巴和身体，以及背景处的玩具和其他物品时，眼部追踪技术将记录下来。到了3岁时，研究者评估这群孩子是否患上了自闭症。最终他们使用了36个男孩的数据，其中有11个最终诊断患自闭症。（他们排除了女孩的数据，因为当中只有2个患自闭症。）
While the number of children studied was small — and the researchers are now studying more children — experts not involved in the study said the results were significant because of the careful and repeated measurements that were not just snapshots, but showed change over time.
尽管研究的孩子数目不多——科研人员说他们现在正在对更多儿童进行研究——但未参加该项研究的专家们表示，研究结果十分重大，因为经过了仔细而又反复多次的测量，而且评估的不仅是孩子们的快照，还显示了长时间的变化。
“It’s well done and very important,” said Dr. Geraldine Dawson, director of the Center for Autism Diagnosis and Treatment at Duke University. She said it was notable that “early on these babies look quite normal; this really gives us a clue to brain development.”
“这项研究完成得很好，意义重大，”杜克大学(Duke University)自闭症诊断及治疗中心主任杰拉尔丁·道森(Geraldine Dawson)评价说。她说，研究发现“这个婴儿早期看来十分正常”这一点尤其值得关注，“这令我们窥见了大脑发育的线索。”
She said a possible explanation was that early in life, activities like looking at faces are essentially reflexes “controlled by lower cortical regions of the brain that are likely intact” in children with autism. But “as the brain develops, babies begin to use these behaviors in a more intentional way. They can look at what they want to look at. We think that these higher cortical regions are the ones that are not working the same” as in typical children.
她说，对于这个发现也许可以这样解释：在出生早期，像注视人脸这类活动实质上“是由大脑较底层皮质区控制的反射”，在自闭症儿童身上也许仍保留着。但“随着大脑发育，孩子们开始以更为刻意的方式来从事这些行为。他们可以去看自己想要看的东西。我们认为跟普通孩子相比，这些孩子的较高层皮质区运作有所不同。”
Dr. John N. Constantino, a child psychiatrist and pediatrician at Washington University in St. Louis, said the study showed that “babies who develop autism are for the most part doing an awful lot of things right for the first few months.” Perhaps the genes that drive autism begin to derail typical development after that, so that “what you are looking at moment by moment, day by day, second by second, is completely different from what other children are looking at, and the cumulative experience is what sends you off into the trajectory of autism.”
华盛顿大学（Washington University，位于圣路易斯）的儿童精神病学家、儿科医生约翰·康斯坦丁诺(John N. Constantino)说，这项研究显示出“那些得了自闭症的宝宝，在出生后头几个月里做的大多数事情都是正确的。”也许是在这几个月过后，驱动自闭症的基因才开始令正常发育偏离正轨，因此“他们时时刻刻、分分秒秒、一天接着一天注视的东西，跟别的孩子出现了根本的不同，正是这种累积起来的经验令他们彻底走入了自闭症的轨道。”
The researchers found that children who developed autism paid somewhat more attention to mouths and sustained attention to bodies past the age when typical children became less interested. Even more noticeable was that children who developed autism looked more at objects after the first year, while typical children’s interest in objects declined.
研究人员发现，那些后来得了自闭症的儿童对人的嘴巴更注意，而且在正常孩子已经不再注意人的身体时，这些儿童仍然保持着注意力。更值得重视的是，那些得了自闭症的儿童在一岁后更频繁地注视物体，而正常孩子对物体的兴趣已经减弱了。
“We’re measuring what babies see, but more importantly we’re measuring what they don’t see,” Dr. Jones said.
“我们在测量宝宝们看哪些东西，但更重要的是，我们在测量他们没有看哪些东西，”琼斯博士说。
Dr. Dawson said that looking at people teaches babies about “facial expressions and language and gesture. If the baby who’s developing autism is paying attention to objects, they’re really losing out on those opportunities.”
道森博士则说，注视他人教会了宝宝们“面部表情、语言和姿态。如果将要得自闭症的小婴儿把注意力都放在物体上，他们真的错失了这些学习的机会。”
Before this study, experts said, research found that potential signs of autism — including differences in temperament, eye contact and pointing out objects — could be detected late in a child’s first year. Most cases of autism in children are diagnosed between ages 3 and 5, although the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends screening children at between 18 and 24 months.
专家们介绍说，在这项研究前，研究已经发现自闭症的潜在迹象——包括个性、目光接触和指认物品——可以在孩子未满周岁时甄别出来。大部分儿童自闭症患者是在3-5岁间得以确诊的，不过美国儿科学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)推荐在孩子18-24个月间进行筛查。
But the new study suggests the need to develop therapies that begin even earlier. “The train has long left the station if you don’t start intervention until 18 months,” Dr. Constantino said.
但这项新研究显示，需要开发出针对更年幼婴儿的治疗方法。“如果你等到孩子满1岁半时才开始干预治疗，火车早已经出站了，”康斯坦丁诺医生说。
Dr. Jones said eye contact was “just one very important channel.”
琼斯则说，目光接触“只是一个非常重要的渠道”。
He continued, “I think we’d see the same things if we were measuring a child’s social reciprocity via touch or auditory listening preferences, but those are harder to measure.”
他进一步说，“我认为，如果我们是通过触摸或聆听偏好这些指标来监测儿童的社交参与性，也会得出一样的发现，但这类行为更难测量。”
He and Dr. Klin advocate the eventual use of eye tracking and other measures in social development growth charts, similar to height and weight charts. Still, the authors and other experts cautioned that the results required confirmation in many more children.
他和克林博士倡导最终能在社交发展生长曲线图上使用视觉追踪和其他量化指标，就像身体和体重曲线图一样。不过这两位研究作者和其他专家也提醒说，研究结果尚需要在更广泛的儿童身上得到验证。
Autism is so complex and varied that eye-tracking is unlikely to be able to identify every condition on the autism spectrum, Dr. Zwaigenbaum and others said. But they said the study helped illustrate the need for therapies to increase social engagement among very young infants, “either by intensifying the experience for them or making it pleasurable in other ways,” Dr. Constantino said.
泽威根鲍姆和其他专家们表示，自闭症十分复杂多变，因此视觉追踪这一种测量方式不可能适用于自闭症谱系障碍上的每一种综合症。但他们也说，这项研究有助于阐明对年幼的婴儿增加社交参与治疗的必要性，“要么得向他们强化社交体验，要么用其他方式来让社交变得更为愉快，”康斯坦丁诺说。
“It really does present an opportunity for seeing if we could do some preventative interventions,” said Dr. Sally Ozonoff, vice chairwoman for research in psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the MIND Institute of the University of California, Davis. “Maybe you could keep the child from heading into that decline, so it doesn’t turn into autism.”
“在了解我们是否能提供某些预防性干预手段这方面，它确实代表着一大良机，”加州大学戴维斯分校(University of California, Davis)神经发育障碍医学研究所研究部副主任萨利·奥佐诺夫(Sally Ozonoff)博士说：“也许我们可以避免让这些孩子一落千丈，不至于进展到自闭症阶段。”