WASHINGTON — The economist Robert J. Shiller in 2005 described the rapid rise of housing prices as a bubble and warned that prices could fall by 40 percent.
华盛顿——经济学家罗伯特·J·席勒(Robert J. Shiller)在2005年曾称房地产价格的迅速上升是泡沫，并警告说价格可能会下跌40%。
Five years later, with home prices well on the way to fulfilling Mr. Shiller’s prediction, the economist Eugene F. Fama said he still did not believe there had been a bubble.
五年后，住宅价格正在验证席勒预言的道路上行进着，但经济学家尤金·F·法玛(Eugene F. Fama)说他还是不相信存在泡沫。
“I don’t even know what a bubble means,” said Mr. Fama, the author of the theory that asset prices perfectly reflect all available information. “These words have become popular. I don’t think they have any meaning.”
“我甚至不知道泡沫是什么意思，”法玛说，他提出了一种理论，认为资产价格充分反映了所有可用信息。“这些词现在很流行。但我认为它们什么意义也没有。”
The two men, leading proponents of opposing views about the rationality of financial markets — a dispute with important implications for investment strategy, financial regulation and economic policy — were joined in unlikely union Monday as winners of the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science.
这是围绕着金融市场是否理性所持有的两种截然相反的看法，双方的争论对投资战略、金融监管和经济政策有着重大影响。两位经济学家作为各自阵营的领军人物，出人意料地在周一共同成为诺贝尔经济学奖得主。
Mr. Fama’s seminal theory of rational, efficient markets inspired the rise of index funds and contributed to the decline of financial regulation. Mr. Shiller, perhaps his most influential critic, carefully assembled evidence of irrational, inefficient behavior and gained a measure of fame by predicting the fall of stock prices in 2000 as well as the housing crash that began in 2006.
法玛有关理性、高效市场的开创性理论促进了指数基金的兴起，也是金融监管减弱的原因之一。席勒可能是法玛的批评者中最具影响力的一位，他仔细收集证明非理性、低效市场行为的证据，并因为预测到2000年股价的下跌以及2006年的楼市崩盘而树立起很好的声望。
They will share the award with a third American economist, Lars Peter Hansen, who developed a method of statistical analysis to evaluate theories about price movements that is now widely used by other social scientists.
他们将和另一位美国经济学家拉尔斯‧彼得‧汉森(Lars Peter Hansen)分享这个奖项。汉森创造了一个用于评估价格变动理论的统计分析方法，目前已被其他社会科学家广泛使用。
The three economists, who worked independently, were described as collectively illuminating the workings of financial markets by showing that stock and bond prices move unpredictably in the short term but with greater predictability over longer periods. The prize committee said these findings showed that markets were moved by a mix of rational calculus and irrational behavior.
这三位各自独立开展工作的经济学家通过证明股票及债券短期内的价格变动是无法预测的，但长期价格变动的可预测性要大很多，共同阐明了金融市场的活动。诺贝尔奖委员会表示，这些发现说明市场的波动是理性计算和非理性行为共同作用的结果。
Mr. Fama and Mr. Hansen are professors at the University of Chicago, known as the principal home of free market economics; Mr. Shiller is a professor at Yale University. Their work “laid the foundation for the current understanding of asset prices,” according to a statement from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, which awards the annual prize.
法玛和汉森是来自芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的教授，该大学被称为自由市场经济学的大本营。席勒是耶鲁大学(Yale University)的教授。授予他们年度经济学奖的瑞典皇家科学院(Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences)发表声明称，他们的工作“为当前对资产价格的理解奠定了基础”。
Yet in jointly honoring the work of Mr. Fama and Mr. Shiller, the committee also highlighted how far the economics profession remains from agreeing on the answer to a basic and consequential question: How do markets work?
然而，在一同表彰法玛和席勒的工作时，诺贝尔奖委员会还强调称，经济学领域尚未就一个基本的、重要的问题——市场如何运行——达成一致意见。
“It encapsulates the state of modern economics,” said Justin Wolfers, an economist at the University of Michigan. “We have big important questions that remain largely open and we have giants bringing evidence to bear. And the answer turns out to be more complicated than markets are efficient — or markets are inefficient.”
“这概括了现代经济学的状态，”密歇根大学(University of Michigan)的经济学家贾斯汀·沃尔弗斯(Justin Wolfers)说。“我们有一些有待解决的重要问题，也有一些卓越人物拿出了经得起推敲的证据。结果证明，问题的答案并非市场高效或低效那么简单。”
The dispute is not merely academic. The deregulation of financial markets beginning in the 1980s was justified by the view that markets are rational and efficient. Complacence about rising home prices in the 2000s similarly reflected the view that prices are inherently rational. In the aftermath of the crisis, conversely, the work of Mr. Shiller and other proponents of behavioral economics — the integration of psychology into economic models — has been influential in shaping an intensification of financial regulation. And Federal Reserve officials are now debating whether bubbles can be identified and when they should be popped.
这种争论不仅是学术上的。金融市场的监管力度从20世纪80年代开始放宽，有关理性、高效市场的观点证明正是合理的举措。对本世纪头十年房价上涨的沾沾自喜同样反映价格存在内在理性的观点。相反，危机之后，席勒及其他行为经济学——将心理学引入到经济模型中——支持者的工作对金融监管的强化产生了影响。美联储(Federal Reserve)官员目前正在就能否识别泡沫、应该在什么时候打破泡沫展开辩论。
Mr. Fama, 74, was honored for showing in the 1960s that asset prices are “extremely hard to predict over short horizons.” He has said the seeds of his theory were planted as an undergraduate at Tufts University, while working for a professor who ran a stock market forecasting service. Mr. Fama was charged with devising and testing forecasting schemes, which invariably failed to work. He later coined the term "efficient markets" to describe his view that asset price movements could not be predicted because prices fully reflected all available information.
74岁的法玛之所以受表彰，是因为他在20世纪60年代阐明“短期内的资产价格是极难预测的”。法玛曾表示，他的理论萌生于在塔夫茨大学(Tufts University)读本科的时候，当时他为一名开展股票市场预测服务的教授工作。法玛负责设计、检验预测方案，那些方案始终没能见效。他后来创造了“高效市场”这个术语来描述他的观点，即资产价格的变动是无法预测的，因为价格充分反映了所有既有信息。
The theory basically asserted, in the words of the economist Burton Malkiel, that “a blindfolded monkey throwing darts at a newspaper’s financial pages could select a portfolio that would do just as well as one carefully selected by experts.”
用经济学家伯顿·马尔基尔(Burton Malkiel)的话说，这个理论基本上认为，“被蒙住眼睛的猴子向报纸的金融版面投射飞镖选中的投资组合，与专家精心挑选的投资组合一样好。”
It has been repeatedly validated, sometimes in experiments involving actual monkeys. And while many market prognosticators on Wall Street still thrive in part by claiming that they can offer investments that will consistently beat the market averages, Mr. Fama’s well-established theory has influenced the way millions of people now invest, contributing to the popularity of index funds that hold broad, diversified baskets of equities.
这个结论被多次验证，有时候实验还真的用上了猴子。华尔街依然有不少市场预言者在宣称他们能够做出始终超过市场平均水平的投资，并一定程度上因此而兴旺发达，但玛法的理论行之有效，现在已经影响到了许多人的投资方式，令指数基金广受欢迎，这些持有涉及广泛的、多元化的一篮子股票组合。
Mr. Shiller, 67, introduced in the early 1980s an important limitation on the idea that markets operate efficiently. He showed that the volatility of stock prices was greater than the volatility in corporate dividends. Moreover, he found that some of those irrational deviations fell into predictable patterns.
67岁的席勒在20世纪80年代初就市场高效运行理论提出了一项重要的限定。席勒证明，股票价格的波动性要大于公司股息的波动性。此外，他还发现一些非理性的偏离是存在可预测的规律的。
Mr. Fama is among the economists who have since documented other patterns of predictable price movements, although he explains these patterns as a form of compensation for the greater risk associated with some assets.
法玛和其他经济学家一直在对其他可预测的价格变动规律进行记录，尽管他解释称这些规律的作用是对某些资产的高风险进行补偿。
Mr. Shiller, by contrast, has argued that the predictability of prices reflects irrational but repeating patterns in human behavior, and he is among a group of prominent economists who are trying to integrate behavioral theories from psychology and other social sciences into rigorous models of economic activity.
席勒的看法正相反，他提出价格的可预测性体现了人类行为中的非理性但反复出现的规律。包括席勒在内的一些知名经济学家试图将心理学及其他社会科学中的行为理论结合到经济活动的精密模型中。
An enthusiastic popularizer, Mr. Shiller wrote in “Market Volatility,” a 1989 book published by MIT Press, that the assertion stock prices were rational was “one of the most remarkable errors in the history of economic thought.” Instead, he wrote, “Mass psychology may well be the dominant cause of movements in the price of the aggregate stock market.”
热衷于知识普及的席勒在1989年由麻省理工学院出版社(MIT Press)出版的《市场波动》(Market Volatility)一书中写到，有关股价合理性的主张是“经济思想史中最显著的错误。”事实上，他写道，“大众心理或许才是导致股票市场总体价格水平出现变动的主要原因。”