TOKYO — The Japanese government expressed outrage at an image released Saturday that appeared to show the decapitated body of one of two Japanese hostages captured by Islamic State militants, and President Obama condemned what he called a “brutal murder.”
东京——周六公布的一张照片显示了一具无头尸体，似为伊斯兰国(Islamic State)武装分子俘获的两名日本人质中的一人，日本政府对此表示愤怒，奥巴马总统称对这种“残忍杀害”的行为表示谴责。
The kidnappers had threatened to kill the men if a Friday deadline passed for a $200 million ransom from Japan. Hours before Mr. Obama’s statement, the United States and Japanese governments said that they were working to authenticate the video containing the image.
绑匪曾威胁称，如果到了周五日本还没有支付2亿美元（约合12.4亿元人民币）的赎金，他们就会杀死人质。在奥巴马发表声明的几个小时前，美国及日本政府表示，他们正在努力确定包含上述图片的视频的真实性。
SITE Intelligence, an organization that tracks jihadist propaganda, said that it believed it was authentic. But Al Furqan, a media arm of the Islamic State that has in the past posted videos of the group’s beheadings, had not released any video or message confirming the apparent killing of Haruna Yukawa, 42, by late Saturday.
密切关注圣战分子宣传组织的赛德情报集团(SITE Intelligence Group)表示，他们认为视频真实可信。伊斯兰国过去通过其媒体组织标准传媒社(Al Furqan)发布斩首视频，但截至周六晚些时候，该媒体尚未公布任何视频或信息确认被斩首的是42岁的汤川遥菜(Haruna Yukawa)。
A statement by SITE said the video was posted on Twitter accounts linked to the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL.
赛德情报集团发表声明称，发布视频的Twitter账户与伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）有关联。
An audio message accompanying the video said the Islamic State no longer demanded ransom for the second Japanese hostage, but instead offered to free him in exchange for the release of a woman facing the death penalty in Jordan for her role in a deadly 2005 bombing there.
与视频一同发布的音频信息称，伊斯兰国不再要求日本为第二名人质支付赎金，而表示要以释放一名女子为条件释放人质，这名女子因在2005年参与发生在约旦的致命爆炸袭击事件而面临死刑。
Mr. Obama, who was traveling to India, issued a statement saying that the “United States strongly condemns the brutal murder of Japanese citizen Haruna Yukawa by the terrorist group ISIL.”
即将前往印度的奥巴马发表声明称，“美国强烈谴责恐怖组织ISIL残忍杀害日本公民汤川遥菜的行为。”
The other hostage, Kenji Goto, 47, a journalist, appeared to be alive in the video. Mr. Yukawa, a self-described military contractor who was captured in Syria in August, would be the first Japanese person to be killed by the Islamic State, which has established a self-proclaimed caliphate in parts of Syria and Iraq financed partly by ransom payments for kidnapped foreigners.
视频显示，另一名人质——47岁的记者后藤健二(Kenji Goto)似乎还活着。自称是军用物资承包商的汤川遥菜于去年8月在叙利亚被俘获，他是伊斯兰国杀害的首名日本人，伊斯兰国在叙利亚及伊拉克的部分区域成立了自称的哈里发国，该组织的活动资金部分来自被绑外国人支付的赎金。
The SITE statement said a still image of Mr. Goto in shackles shows him holding a photo of a beheaded man, which it said was Mr. Yukawa. The video that included the still image was removed from YouTube early Saturday.
赛德情报集团表示，后藤健二的静态图像显示，戴着镣铐的他举着一名被斩首男子的照片，该组织称照片中是汤川遥菜。周六早些时候，包含上述静态图像的视频被从YouTube删除。
The Islamic State has beheaded three Americans and two Britons in recent months and showcased the killings via Internet video postings.
近几个月来，伊斯兰国已经将三名美国人和两名英国人斩首，并通过网络发布斩首过程。
The two Japanese men’s fate have become a fixation in Japan in recent days and a major challenge for Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. Political analysts have said the killing might turn Japan’s still pacifist public against Mr. Abe’s efforts to give the nation a more active role in global affairs. The size of the ransom demand for the two hostages matched the amount of aid that Mr. Abe recently pledged to help with refugee relief and other nonlethal efforts by Middle East nations to deal with the Islamic State.
最近几天，这两名日本人的命运已经成了日本的焦点，也是对日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)的一个重要挑战。安倍晋三正在试图让日本在全球事务中发挥更积极的作用，而政治分析人士表示，杀戮可能会让依然反战的日本民众对此产生反感。前不久，安倍晋三承诺向中东各国的难民提供救济，并对其他一些不会造成人员伤亡的行动提供援助，以抗击伊斯兰国。而此次针对两名人质的赎金数额，与安倍晋三承诺的援助数额相当。
As he let the ransom deadline pass, apparently without paying the money, Mr. Abe had vowed that Japan would not be intimidated. After the image of the corpse appeared, a grim-faced Mr. Abe rushed to the prime minister’s office to oversee this latest twist to the hostage crisis that began Tuesday, when a video posted online showed the hostages kneeling as a knife-wielding militant threatened to kill them.
随着期限已过，似乎未支付赎金的安倍晋三誓称，日本不会被吓倒。尸体的照片出现后，一脸严肃的安倍晋三匆匆赶到首相办公室，了解这场人质危机的最新进展。此次危机始于周二，当时发布在网上的一段视频显示，两名人质跪在地上，一名持刀武装分子威胁要杀了他们。
Mr. Abe held an emergency meeting of his ministers overnight during which he said he directed them to use every possible avenue to free Mr. Goto.
安倍晋三连夜与大臣们召开紧急会议。他表示，已在紧急会议上指示他们利用一切可能的途径，解救后藤健二。
“I feel strong outrage,” Mr. Abe told reporters after the meeting. “The Japanese government will not give in to terrorism and will continue to contribute to the peace and stability of the international community and the world.”
“我感到非常愤怒，”安倍晋三在会议结束后对记者说。“日本政府不会向恐怖主义让步，将继续为国际社会和全世界的和平与稳定做出贡献。”
In the three-minute audio recording released Saturday, the voice of a man who claimed to be Mr. Goto said Mr. Yukawa had been “slaughtered” and blamed Mr. Abe’s failure to pay the ransom. (In the audio, the voice says he is Kenji Goto Jogo; it remained unclear late Saturday why that was different from the name given by the Japanese government and his own website, which gives only the first two names.)
在周六公布的一段三分钟的录音中，一名自称后藤健二的男子称汤川遥菜已被“杀死”，并将其归咎于安倍晋三未支付赎金。（在录音中，这个声音说自己名叫上后藤健二[Kenji Goto Jogo]；截至周六夜里，尚不清楚为何这个名字与日本政府及其本人的网站所给出的名字不同。其本人的网站只给出了他名字中的前两部分。）