LONDON — A video posted online on Tuesday, purportedly by the Islamic State extremist group, depicted a black-clad militant with a knife threatening to kill two Japanese hostages within 72 hours unless the government in Tokyo paid a ransom of $200 million.
伦敦——周二，一个据称由伊斯兰国(Islamic State)极端组织周二发布的网络视频显示，一名身着黑衣、拿着刀的武装人员威胁称，除非东京的日本政府支付2亿美元赎金，否则将在72小时内杀害两名日本人质。
The video, which could not immediately be verified independently, showed two men, identified as Kenji Goto and Haruna Yukawa, kneeling on a rocky hillside, with the masked militant standing between them.
该无法立即独立核实的视频显示了两名男子——被确认为后藤健二(Kenji Goto)和汤川遥菜(Haruna Yukawa)——跪在一个岩石山坡上，该名蒙面武装分子站在他们中间。
The militant linked the ransom demand to a Japanese offer of assistance to enemies of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS and ISIL, which controls a large amount of territory stretching from Syria into Iraq. The group says it is seeking to establish an Islamic caliphate and has previously shown videos of the beheading of two Americans, James Foley and Steven J. Sotloff, and two Britons, David Cawthorne Haines and Alan Henning.
这名武装人员将赎金要求与日本对伊斯兰国的敌人提供的协助联系在了一起。该组织也称ISIS及ISIL，它控制着从叙利亚延伸至伊拉克境内的大片区域。该组织称其寻求建立一个伊斯兰哈里发国，并于早前展示了斩首两名美国人——詹姆斯·弗利(James Foley)和史蒂芬·J·索特洛夫(Steven J. Sotloff)——及两名英国人——戴维·考索恩·海恩斯(David Cawthorne Haines)和艾伦·亨宁(Alan Henning)——的视频。
“To the Japanese public, just as how your government has made the foolish decision to pay 200 million to fight the Islamic State, you now have 72 hours to pressure your government in making a wise decision by paying the 200 million to save the lives of your citizens,” the masked man said in the video, speaking with what sounded like a British accent. “Otherwise this knife will become your nightmare.”
“日本公众们，就像你们的政府如何作出了支付2亿打击伊斯兰国的愚蠢决定一样，你们现在有72小时来向你们的政府施压，让其作出一个明智的决定，支付那2亿来拯救你们自己公民的生命，”那名蒙面男子在视频中用听起来像是英国口音的英语说道。“要不然这把刀将成为你们的噩梦。”
The masked man, whose voice, manner and attire resembled those of a person who appeared in earlier videos showing beheadings, did not specify a currency, but a subtitle in Arabic identified it as American dollars, Reuters reported.
路透社(Reuters)报道，该名声音、举止和服饰都与出现在早先斩首视频中的那个人相似的蒙面男子没有指明货币种类，但是阿拉伯语的字幕将其指明为美元。
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan made the promise of nonmilitary assistance to foes of the Islamic State on Saturday during a visit to Cairo on a Middle East tour.
日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)在中东之行中，与周六在访问开罗期间作出了向伊斯兰国的敌人提供非军事援助的承诺。
The hostages in the video wore orange jumpsuits, the attire of many of the group’s captives in previous videos. The threat thrust Japan into the sort of high-profile hostage dilemma that has vexed the United States and Britain, which both say they refuse to pay ransoms.
视频中的人质身着橘黄色连体衣，这是早先视频中许多该组织俘虏的服装。此次威胁将日本推入了那种曾困扰过美国和英国的高调人质难题之中。美英均称拒绝支付赎金。
“Our country will not be intimidated by terrorism,” the main government spokesman, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga, said in Tokyo, “and there is no change to our policy of contributing to the international community’s fight against terrorism.”
“我们的国家不会被恐怖主义吓倒，”政府主要发言人、日本内阁官房长官菅义伟(Yoshihide Suga)在东京说道。“而且我们为国际社会打击伊斯兰国作出贡献的政策不会改变。”
Speaking at his daily news conference, Mr. Suga said the government was still trying to confirm the authenticity of the video. He declined to answer questions about whether Japan would pay the demanded ransom.
菅在一个每日新闻发布会上说，政府仍在试图确认视频的真实性。他拒绝回答关于日本是否将支付所要求的赎金的问题。
At a news conference in Jerusalem on Tuesday, Mr. Abe said he would not curtail his trip and would keep appointments with political leaders, but that he would skip less important engagements in order to stay on top of the hostage crisis.
周二在一个于耶路撒冷举行的新闻发布会上，安倍表示他不会缩短行程，并将如期进行与政治领导人的约定会面，但是他将略过不太重要的会面，以努力解决人质危机。
“Using human lives as a shield to make threats is an unforgivable terrorist act, and I am extremely indignant,” he said. “I strongly demand that they be released unharmed immediately.”
“用人命做盾牌来发动威胁是不可原谅的恐怖主义行为，而且我极度愤怒，”他说。“我强烈要求他们立即被毫发无伤地释放。”
The abductions were the top item on news programs in Japan, where many voters have been nervous about Mr. Abe’s efforts to give the long-pacifist nation a higher profile in international events.
在日本，过往绑架事件是新闻节目的头条，这里的许多选民一直都对安倍在国际事件中赋予这个长期和平的国家更高出镜率的努力感到不安。
According to the website of Mr. Yukawa, the chief executive of the private security firm PMC, he was captured in Syria in August. He was shown last year in a video posted online lying bleeding on the ground, being interrogated in English. He told his interrogators that he was working as a doctor and a journalist, but the interrogator also asked why he was carrying a weapon. PMC’s website links to video of him firing an AK-47 assault rifle in Aleppo, Syria, along with other images of him Iraq and Syria.
据任私人保安公司PMC首席执行官的汤川的网站显示，他8月在叙利亚被抓。去年一个发布在网上的视频显示他留着血躺倒在地，被用英文审讯。他告诉他的审讯者，他是一名医生兼记者，但审讯者还问了他为什么携带武器。PMC公司的网站有他在叙利亚阿勒颇用一部AK-47冲锋枪射击的视频的链接，并附有其他他在伊拉克和叙利亚的图片。
Mr. Goto is a freelance journalist who focuses on war, refugees, poverty, AIDS and education, according to his website, Independent Press.
根据后藤名为“独立媒体”(Independent Press)的网站介绍，他是一名专注于战争、难民、贫困、艾滋病和教育的自由职业记者。
The video on Tuesday recalled events in November 2004, when Japan had 550 troops in Iraq as part of the American-led coalition, and Shosei Koda, a 24-year-old Japanese tourist, was kidnapped and decapitated by a militant group seeking their withdrawal. The prime minister at the time, Junichiro Koizumi, rejected the demand.
周二的视频让人想起2004年11月的事件，那时日本在伊拉克有550名驻兵，作为美国领导的联盟的一部分，24岁的日本人质香田证生被寻求撤军的武装组织绑架并斩首。当时的日本首相小泉纯一郎(Junichiro Koizumi)拒绝了撤军要求。