A propaganda video intended to show Turkmenistan’s president as a strong leader who knows his weapons instead became the butt of a global joke.
一个旨在表明土库曼斯坦总统是一位懂武器的强悍领袖的政治宣传视频，变成了一个全球笑柄。
When the repressive regime exalted its president this week with footage portraying him as a military man of action, an exiled opposition publication spliced in clips of Arnold Schwarzenegger suiting up in the 1985 action movie “Commando.”
本周，这个高压政权用该视频颂扬自己的总统，将他描述成一位具有行动力的军人，但是一个流亡的反对派刊物将阿诺德·施瓦辛格(Arnold Schwarzenegger)1985年的动作片《魔鬼司令》(Commando)中的一些片段加了进去。
The parody video struck a nerve online, drawing widespread attention to the president, a former dentist named Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov (pronounced gur-BAHN-goo-lee bair-dee-mukh-ha-MAY-doff).
这个讽刺视频在网上触动了人们的情绪，引发了人们对这位总统的广泛关注，他曾是一名牙医，名叫库尔班古力·别尔德穆哈梅多夫(Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov)。
The official video showed Mr. Berdymukhammedov firing a rifle, throwing knives and calling in an airstrike. “The head of the government demonstrated his precise aim, itself a testament to his high level of military training,” the government explained in a statement.
在官方视频中，别尔德穆哈梅多夫用步枪射击，扔匕首，呼叫空中打击。“这位政府首脑展现了自己的准星，这本身就是他受过高水平军事训练的明证，”该政府在一项声明中称。
It said he also “demonstrated his mastery of target shooting using a pistol.”
声明还表示，他也“展示出用手枪瞄准射击的高超技艺”。
The parody was created by The Chronicle of Turkmenistan, which describes itself as an exiled purveyor of “news that you won’t hear about from official news outlets.”
讽刺视频是《土库曼斯坦纪事报》(The Chronicle of Turkmenistan)制作的，它称自己流亡海外，提供“你通过官方新闻渠道无法获得的新闻”。
Its version of the video, with background music from the “Commando” soundtrack, opens on a shot of a racing pickup truck before cutting to clips from a pivotal point of the movie in which Mr. Schwarzenegger arms himself with multiple weapons before single-handedly storming a compound.
经修改后的视频背景音乐来自《魔鬼司令》，视频开头是一辆疾驰的皮卡，而后加入了该片中的一个关键片段，施瓦辛格在单枪匹马突入一个园地之前给自己配备多种武器。
It then cuts back to Mr. Berdymukhammedov, decked out in camouflage gear, shooting and throwing knives at targets to the adoration of a group of uniformed men, including the heads of several law enforcement agencies, according to The Chronicle. He calls in the airstrike and later poses on a tarmac. The video ends with Mr. Berdymukhammedov seated at a desk signing the paper targets.
然后画面切回到别尔德穆哈梅多夫，他穿着一身迷彩服，向靶子射击、扔匕首，旁边有一队武装人员在瞻仰——据《土库曼斯坦纪事报》称，其中有几名是执法机构的首长。他呼叫了空袭，后来又站在飞机跑道上。在视频结尾部分，别尔德穆哈梅多夫坐在一张书桌前，在纸靶上签名。
Like many authoritarian leaders, Mr. Berdymukhammedov has a taste for theatrical displays. In his case, that includes several music videos and footage of him showing off his athletic prowess. But it hasn’t all been glamorous: In 2013, video surfaced of him falling off a horse at a race, undercutting the glowing official account of the event.
和很多威权主义领导人一样，别尔德穆哈梅多夫喜欢戏剧化的展示。他拍过几个音乐视频，以及展示他体育才能的视频。不过，那些视频并不总是光彩：在2013年的一个视频中，他在一次比赛中从马上摔了下来，削弱了官方对这个赛事的光辉报道。
The latest flamboyant episode comes at a sensitive time for the isolationist Central Asian nation, which is reportedly concerned about Islamic State activity along its border with Afghanistan as it prepares to host the 5th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games in September. In official statements, the country has reported spending billions of dollars preparing for the event.
最近的炫耀视频出现在一个敏感时期，据报道，伊斯兰国在这个孤立的中亚国家与阿富汗边境的活动让他们感到担忧，该国正在为今年9月主办的第五届亚洲室内武术运动会(Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games)做准备。根据官方的陈述，该国已经为准备该赛事花费数十亿美元。
“This is clearly his vanity project, a chance to showcase his leadership in Turkmenistan,” said Alexander Cooley, the director of Columbia University’s Harriman Institute for the study of Russia, Eurasia and Eastern Europe.
“这显然是他的门面工程，用以展示他在土库曼斯坦的领导地位，”哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)研究俄罗斯、欧亚大陆和东欧问题的哈里曼研究所(Harriman Institute)的所长亚历山大·库利(Alexander Cooley)说。
Meanwhile, the nation’s economy, which depends heavily on gas exports to China, has struggled in recent years with reports of unpaid wages and food shortages attributed to low energy prices, corruption and its own isolationist policies.
与此同时，近些年该国的经济也遇到了困难——该国严重依赖对中国的天然气出口，据报道，由于能源价格下降、腐败和孤立政策，国内出现了拖欠工资和食物短缺的情况。
“It’s definitely a country that is very troubled and its model of governance is collapsing,” said Paul Stronski, a senior fellow in the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. “The government is focusing, instead, on building this great image of the country.”
“显然，这个国家遇到了大麻烦，它的统治模式正在崩溃，”卡内基国际和平研究院(Carnegie Endowment for International Peace)的俄罗斯和欧亚项目高级研究员保罗·斯特朗斯基(Paul Stronski)说。“而政府正在塑造自己国家的伟大形象。”
Mr. Berdymukhammedov claimed the presidency in a rigged 2007 election, succeeding the nation’s longtime dictator, Saparmurat Niyazov, who died the year before.
别尔德穆哈梅多夫在2007年通过一场有暗箱操作的选举上台，继承了该国长期独裁者萨帕尔穆拉特·尼亚佐夫(Saparmurat Niyazov)的位置，后者在之前一年去世。
At first, it appeared that Mr. Berdymukhammedov might move in a different direction after he began disassembling the personality cult built around the eccentric Mr. Niyazov, who had named days of the week after family members and constructed a gold statue of himself that rotated to face the sun. But, after having the statue removed, Mr. Berdymukhammedov built one of his own, which he insisted was erected not out of vanity but of popular demand.
一开始，别尔德穆哈梅多夫似乎是要转向不同的方向，他开始驱散尼亚佐夫的个人崇拜，后者曾用家庭成员的名字给一周的每一天命名，还给自己建了一个永远面向太阳的旋转金色雕像。但是，在移除了尼亚佐夫的雕像之后，别尔德穆哈梅多夫给自己建了一个雕像，他坚称那不是出于虚荣，而是回应民众的要求。
He also upheld the repressive policies of his predecessor, with strict restrictions on the freedoms of expression, association and religion, and reports of forced labor and prisoners being tortured or “disappeared.”
他也支持前任的高压政策，严格限制言论、结社和宗教自由，据报道，该国存在劳教、虐囚并导致囚犯“消失”的情况。
“Turkmenistan is one of the world’s most repressive countries, with an abysmal human rights record,” Human Rights Watch notes on its website. Human rights monitors and activists complain that they are not even allowed into the country.
“土库曼斯坦是世界上最高压的国家之一，人权状况很糟糕，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)在自己的网站上称。人权监督者和活动人士抱怨称，他们甚至不被允许进入该国。