ZIGONG, China — Dolled up with makeup and a blond wig, the pretty young Chinese woman sat at home in her bedroom on a quiet Sunday evening and began singing karaoke.
中国自贡——一个宁静的周日晚上，一名妆容精致、头戴金色假发、年轻漂亮的中国姑娘坐在家中自己的卧室里开始唱卡拉OK。
A large microphone and three webcams clipped to a desktop monitor streamed the performance over the Internet, to thousands of fans who knew her only by her stage name, Poison.
被用夹子夹在桌面显示器上的一个大麦克风和三个网络摄像头通过互联网，将她的表演在线传输给成千上万名粉丝。他们只知道她艺名叫毒药。
“Hey, Big Brother!” she greeted one fan in between songs. “Did you just get back from vacation in Sanya or are you watching on a laptop?”
“嗨，大哥！”她在歌曲间歇里招呼一名粉丝，“你是刚从三亚度假回来吗，你是正在笔记本电脑上看吗？”
Poison, 26, still lives with her parents and her dogs Blueberry and DuDu in a modest apartment. But she is one of the most popular attractions in a thriving new business in China: live interactive web entertainment.
26岁的毒药依然和父母，以及她的两条狗蓝莓和嘟嘟住在一处普通公寓里。但在中国的这个繁荣发展的新行业现场交互网络娱乐中，她是最受欢迎的人之一。
Media and technology companies across the globe have tried for years to attract viewers en masse to live Internet broadcasts, with X-rated websites the only real success stories. China, though, appears to have cracked the code. Millions are now tuning in every night to watch karaoke performances, comedy skits and talk shows — moving beyond the common web fare of scantily clad women doing erotic dances.
多年来，全球的媒体和科技公司一直试图将大批观众吸引到互联网现场直播节目上去，但只有那些黄色网站真正取得了成功。然而，中国似乎已经破解了相关密码。现在，每天晚上会有数百万人上网观看这类卡拉OK表演、喜剧小品和脱口秀——它们远远超出了衣着暴露的女性跳艳舞的范畴。
The shows are typically low-budget productions by amateur entertainers who work out of tiny apartments, fitted with webcams. And viewers spend large sums online to buy credits to give virtual gifts of roses, chocolates and Chanel bags to performers, who receive a slice of the revenue.
这些表演通常是业余表演者在安装了网络摄像头的小公寓里制作出来的低成本作品。观众会在网上花费大量金钱购买点数，以便送虚拟的玫瑰、巧克力和香奈儿(Chanel)包包等礼物给表演者。表演者则能从这些收入中分得一杯羹。
The strategy offers a potential path for the rest of the world, which is struggling to move profitably into online programming. Services like Netflix and iTunes have prompted some consumers to drop cable. But viewers in the United States and elsewhere are largely sticking with traditional television for live shows.
就在世界其他地区正为如何在在线节目播放领域获取利润而苦思无解之时，这项策略提供了一条潜在的道路。Netflix和iTunes等企业已促使部分消费者放弃了有线电视。但美国和其他地方的观众基本上仍在用传统的电视观看现场直播节目。
Given the government restrictions on all manner of media, consumers in China seem more willing to go online for movies, music and even role-playing fantasy games. State-run television — with its steady diet of propaganda, game shows and stale dramas — just doesn’t offer the same variety.
考虑到政府对所有媒体的限制，中国的消费者似乎更愿意上网看电影、听音乐乃至玩角色扮演的奇幻游戏。官方电视台一成不变地播放宣传材料、综艺节目和缺乏新意的电视剧，就是无法提供同样的多样性。
The websites mix video feeds with streaming-text commentary from the audience. In the upper left corner of the screen is a running count of how many viewers are in the virtual concert hall. Digital cars — representing the V.I.P.s who spend large sums — speed in and out of the imaginary hall.
相关网站将视频和观众的在线评论文字结合在了一起。在屏幕左上角，这个虚拟音乐厅里的观众统计人数会滚动出现。数字汽车——代表花了很多钱的高级会员——快速地进出这个虚构的音乐厅。
“I’ve spent more than $15,000 in each of the past two years,” says Mi Tian, a 29-year-old architect from Shangdong Province. “I’ve given virtual gifts to basically every performer I’ve watched.”
“过去两年里，我每年花10万块钱左右，”山东省29岁的建筑师田米（音译）说，“我差不多会给我看过的每个表演者送虚拟礼物。”
The leader in China in this industry is a fast-growing start-up called YY.com. It has 92 million monthly active users and more than a million channels.
在中国，这个行业的领头羊是一家名为YY语音(YY.com)的创业公司。该公司增长迅速，有9200万月活跃用户，100多万个频道。
David Li, YY’s 40-year-old co-founder and chief executive, says live web entertainment is transforming an industry that has been savaged by copyright infringement and online file-sharing services.
YY语音40岁的联合创始人兼首席执行官李学凌说，现场网络娱乐正在让一个一直为版权侵权和在线文件共享服务所困的行业发生变革。
“Now we’ve found a whole new way to rejuvenate the music industry,” Mr. Li said. “This will help entertainers make money.”
“现在我们找到了一种全新的振兴音乐业的方式，”李学凌说，“这会帮助表演者赚钱。”
Investors are betting he’s right. Shares of YY have soared 500 percent since the company’s public offering on the Nasdaq stock market in late 2012.
投资者期望他是对的。自2012年年末在纳斯达克股市公开募股以来，YY语音的股价已暴涨5倍。
YY was the vanguard for other Chinese webcasters considering listings in the United States, 6.cn and 9158.com. And while some critics dismiss it as a fad, Sina and Tencent, two of China’s biggest Internet companies, have jumped on the bandwagon with their own live karaoke shows.
YY语音是考虑在美国上市的六间房、9158.com等其他一些中国网络广播平台的先锋。而且，尽管一些评论人士称这是一时的狂热，中国数一数二的互联网公司新浪和腾讯也加入了现场卡拉OK表演的潮流。
The companies have latched onto a new business model: turning amateur entertainers into live broadcasters who control their own programming, and offering them revenue-sharing deals to split the proceeds from virtual gifts, an idea adopted from the gaming industry. Instead of 100 or 500 channels, there are millions, each with a person creating his or her own live content.
这些公司采用的是一种新的商业模式：让业余表演者变成自己控制节目的播报员，并和他们签订收入共享协议，分配来自虚拟礼物的收益。这个主意源自游戏行业。它们拥有的频道不是100个或500个，而是数百万个，每个频道都有一个表演者在制作他或她自己的现场节目。
“This is something on the border of movies and video games,” says Eric Wen, an analyst at China Renaissance. “It’s a challenge to the Hollywood model, which, because of copyright theft, didn’t really work in China.”
 “这东西介于电影和游戏之间，”华兴资本分析师温天立(Eric Wen)说。“它是对好莱坞模式的一种挑战，由于盗版，那种模式在中国并不是很适应。”
None of this was by design. YY began as an online community dedicated to World of Warcraft, Blizzard Entertainment’s popular role-playing fantasy game. And 6.cn started as a video-sharing site, much like YouTube.
这一切都并非最初的设想。YY一开始是一个专注于暴雪娱乐(Blizzard Entertainment)的热门角色扮演幻想游戏《魔兽世界》(World of Warcraft)的网络社区。而六间房创办之初是一个类似YouTube的视频分享网站。
When faster Internet speeds arrived in China, video sharing gave way to live broadcasting. The early adopters were online gamers. Then came singers, DJs, hip-hop dancers and stand-up comedians.
随着中国互联网的提速，视频分享开始让位于在线直播。最早尝鲜的是那些网络游戏玩家。而后是歌手、DJ、街舞和喜剧表演者。
The viewers tend to be single men in smaller locales with fewer entertainment options. Many are wealthy enough to spend thousands of dollars to get the V.I.P. privilege of driving a virtual Lamborghini Aventador LP 700-4 Roadster to and from the virtual concert halls during performances. They pay $1,100 for the privilege.
观众以生活在娱乐选择较少的小地方的单身男性居多。不少人足够富裕，能够花上数千美元购买VIP特权，在演出期间开着虚拟的兰博基尼Aventador LP 700-4双座敞篷跑车来往于虚拟的音乐厅。他们要为这些特权支付约1100美元。
“People don’t understand why Chinese spend so much money like this, but it’s partly cultural,” said Yan Liu, the chief executive of 6.cn. “Even in the time of Peking Opera, performers were paid with gifts.”
“有人不明白为什么中国人会在这种东西上花这么多钱，但这跟文化有点关系，”六间房首席执行官刘岩说。“早在京剧的时代，演员的收入就是靠打赏。”
The most popular performers are female “hostesses,” many of whom practice the art of sexual tease.
最受欢迎的表演者是一些女“主播”，其中有不少会借助于性挑逗的艺术。
“What is it about me that attracts you guys? Is it my thighs or something else?” one hostess asks on YY. Viewers can respond in real time, through text or voice message with comments like this: “Can you imagine what it would be like if she stripped her dress off?” They never do, though the women often show lots of skin and cleavage.
“你们喜欢我什么地方？我的腿还是哪儿？”一位女主播在YY上问道。观众可以实时做出回应，他们用文字或语音给出这样的评论：“要是她把裙子脱了是什么样啊？”她们从来不会脱，不过经常会露出很多的皮肤和乳沟。
Critics have complained about the corrupting influence of the live shows, which sometimes feature lewd behavior. But YY and its competitors insist they abide by the law, which forbids nudity or even behaviors that “generate sexual fantasies.”
批评者指责直播表演会引人堕落，其中时有淫秽的举动。但是YY及其竞争对手们坚称它们是遵守法律的，禁止身体裸露，哪怕是导致“产生性幻想”的行为。
“We have very clear rules on behavior,” said Mr. Li at YY.
“我们对行为有非常清晰的规则，”YY的李学凌说。
Live web shows are empowering amateur entertainers, some of whom can now earn $90,000 annually, nearly 30 times the average Chinese salary.
直播表演让业余艺员有了施展的机会，他们中有些人年收入达到了9万美元，是普通中国人薪水的将近30倍。
One of the most successful lives here in Zigong, a midsize city in a mountainous region of southwest China. “Just call me Poison,” she says when asked her real name.
在最成功的艺员里，有一位就生活在自贡，一个中国西南山区的中型城市。“就叫我毒药吧，”她在被问及真名时说。
From a run-down apartment complex, Poison often performs live for more than 10,000 online viewers a night (a birthday concert once drew 36,000 viewers), making her one of the most popular performers on YY’s Entertainment channel. Her popularity earned her a mention in the I.P.O. prospectus YY sent to investors. A former dancer, office clerk and online gaming enthusiast, Poison began performing karaoke on 6.cn several years ago before being recruited to YY.
在这个破旧的住宅小区里，“毒药”每晚要在超过1万名在线观众面前表演（有一次生日演唱会曾吸引到3.6万名观众），成为YY娱乐表演频道最红的表演者之一。她的人气高到YY在致投资人的IPO简介上都要提及她的名字。“毒药”曾是舞蹈演员、办公室职员和狂热的网络游戏玩家，几年前在六间房唱卡拉OK时被YY相中。
“The reason I’m doing this is simple. I wanted to be a singer since I was a little girl, but there wasn’t a way I could do it,” she says putting on eyeliner before a performance.
“我做这个是因为它简单。我从小就想当歌手，但是一直没有办法实现，”她一边说着，一边给自己画眼线准备接下来的演出。
Just before her nightly show begins, around 8, she sits on her bed, surrounded by toy animals, staring at her computer monitor to see what viewers can see. She uses a special webcam to create candy-colored hues around her online image, strokes the locks on her blond wig, and selects karaoke tunes, favoring a mix of Cantonese love songs and theme songs from online games.
就在她的晚间节目开始前，大约8点，她坐在自己的床上，身边满是动物玩偶，她盯着电脑屏幕，检查观众将看到的效果。她用了一种特殊摄像头，给视频画面加上糖果色，理顺头上的金色假发，选择卡拉OK曲目，其中偏好粤语情歌和网络游戏主题曲的混搭。
A bottle of water and a roll of toilet paper are by her side to deal with thirst and a runny nose. And then her three-hour live show begins, right from the edge of her bed.
手边有一瓶水和一卷手纸，以备到时会口渴和流鼻涕。然后，三个小时的演出开始了，一切都在她的床边进行。
“Hi everyone,” she says after going live with an audience that soon that night reached 15,000 people. “Did you miss me while I was away?”
“大家好，”她在上线后对观众说，当晚观众人数很快达到了1.5万人。“我离开的这段时间，大家有想我吗？”