CAIRO — A video released Sunday night by the Islamic State appeared to show the mass beheading of at least a dozen Egyptian Christians by fighters in a recently formed Libyan arm of the militant group.
开罗——伊斯兰国(Islamic State)周日夜间公布的一则视频显示，至少十多名埃及基督徒遭集体斩首。行凶者是隶属于新近成立的该组织利比亚分支的武装分子。
Identical in style and details to earlier execution videos released by the Islamic State, this one was the first the group has released depicting a killing outside of its core territory in Syria and Iraq. It appeared to demonstrate much closer communication and collaboration between the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, and its far-flung satellite groups than Western officials previously believed.
这则视频与伊斯兰国之前公布的多段处决录像在风格和细节上保持一致，为该组织首次发布视频展示其在叙利亚和伊拉克所控制的核心地区以外的地方实施此类杀戮活动。这似乎证明，伊斯兰国（又称ISIS或ISIL）及其遥远的卫星团体之间的交流与合作，要比西方官员之前认为的紧密得多。
As the Obama administration seeks broad approval to use military force in an open-ended war against the Islamic State, the new video may reinforce the concerns among some lawmakers that the legislation could authorize operations in unexpected territories like Libya, where local militants are planting the Islamic State flag as “provinces” of the group.
奥巴马政府正在寻求一项动用武力的广泛授权，以期在一场没有截止期限的战争中打击伊斯兰国。这则新视频可能会加深部分议员的担忧：相关立法兴许会授权美国在利比亚等预想之外的地区开展行动。在利比亚，当地激进分子正在挑起伊斯兰国的大旗，号称自己为伊斯兰国的“省份”。
Concern is already growing in Libya and the West that the group might capitalize on the chaos that has engulfed the country in order to establish and expand a base of operations there. At least three groups of Libyan fighters have already pledged loyalty to the Islamic State, one in each of the country’s three regions — Barqa in the east, Fezzan in the south and Tripolitania in the west.
利比亚与西方已有越来越多的人担心，伊斯兰国可能会利用该国混乱不堪的局势，在那里建立并扩张行动基地。至少有三个利比亚的武装团体已宣布向伊斯兰国效忠。该国的三大地区中各有一个，分别位于东部的拜尔盖、南部的费赞和西部的黎波里塔尼亚。
Officials of Libya’s internationally recognized government recently traveled to Washington to seek help from the West in preventing the Islamic State’s expansion. Even some opponents fighting that government as part of a coalition with Libyan Islamist factions have reportedly begun raising alarms about the need to stop the Islamic State from expanding in Libya.
国际社会承认的利比亚政府近期派出官员前往华盛顿，寻求西方在阻止伊斯兰国的扩张上给予帮助。就连隶属于利比亚伊斯兰主义联盟且在抗击该政府的一些团体，据称也开始发出警告，表示必须阻止伊斯兰国在利比亚的扩张。
In Cairo, where the military-backed government has been working to defeat the Islamist factions in neighboring Libya, supporters of the government cited the video released Sunday as new evidence that those factions pose a growing threat to Egypt’s own security.
在开罗，军方支持的政府一直在做出尝试，希望能击败邻国利比亚的伊斯兰主义派别。政府的支持者将周日公布的这则视频列为新的证据，声称它表明此类派别对埃及自身的安全构成了越来越大的威胁。
Confirming that those killed in the video were Egyptian Christians taken hostage in Libya weeks ago, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt on Sunday announced seven days of national mourning and a meeting of his defense council. In a televised address, he said Egypt would choose the “necessary means and timing to avenge the criminal killings.” The Islamic State promoted the video last week with a photograph from the scene that appeared in its English-language online magazine, Dabiq.
埃及总统阿卜杜勒-法塔赫·塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)确认视频中遇害的是数周前在利比亚遭劫持的埃及基督徒。他周日宣布七天的国丧，并召集国防委员会协商对策。在通过电视播放的讲话中，他发誓埃及将选择“必要的手段和时机来为杀戮罪行报仇”。上周，伊斯兰国在其英文在线杂志《达比克》(Dabiq)上登出了一幅定格画面，对这段视频进行宣传。
The main difference from other execution videos released by the Islamic State is that the new one appears to have taken place on the southern shore of the Mediterranean, on a rocky beach said to be in western Libya, far closer to Europe than sites previously depicted.
这则最新的处决视频，与伊斯兰国之前公布的那些之间主要的区别在于，它似乎把背景设在了地中海南岸的一片石滩上，据称位于利比亚西部，远比此前展示的那些地点要更接近欧洲。
Fighters under the banner of the Tripolitania Province of the Islamic State announced last month that they were holding about 20 Egyptian Christians, or Copts. A similar number of Egyptian Christians in Libya seeking work had disappeared in the mid-coastal city of Surt. Officials of both the Egyptian government and the Coptic Church confirmed that captives seen in a photograph with the announcement were the missing Egyptian Christians, and on Sunday confirmed that they were killed in the video.
打着“伊斯兰国黎波里塔尼亚省”旗号的武装分子上月宣布，他们扣押了大约20名埃及科普特基督徒。此前，有类似人数的想在利比亚工作的埃及基督徒在中部沿海城市苏尔特失踪。埃及政府与科普特教会的官员均确认，武装分子声明中附带的一副图片中的被俘人员就是那些失踪的埃及基督徒。周日，他们又确认视频中遇害的是同样一批人。
In the video, masked fighters identified as from the Tripolitania Province of the Islamic State, dressed in black with machetes at their chests, parade along a rocky beach toward the camera with a row of bound captives in orange jumpsuits, like the ones worn by victims in previous Islamic State videos.
在这段视频里，蒙面武装分子自称来自伊斯兰国黎波里塔尼亚省，身着黑衣，胸前别着刀，沿着石滩朝镜头方向行进。他们身旁押解着一队遭到捆绑的穿橙色连体服的俘虏，与伊斯兰国之前发布的视频中遇害人员的穿着类似。
About five minutes long, the video bears the logo of Al Hayat, the Islamic State’s media arm. Unlike the mobile-phone videos usually made by Libyan militants, it is as polished as previous Islamic State videos, with slow motion, aerial footage and the quick cuts of a music video. The only sound in much of the background is the lapping of waves.
这段视频大约长五分钟，带有伊斯兰国官方出版机构Al Hayat（意为“生活”。——译注）的标识。不同于利比亚武装分子通常用手机拍摄的视频，它和伊斯兰国之前发布的视频一样经过精心处理，使用了慢镜头、航拍镜头，以及音乐视频的快速剪接。很多时候，波浪拍岸声就是背景里惟一的声音。
The captives are made to kneel in the sand. Then they are simultaneously beheaded with the theatrical brutality that has become the trademark of Islamic State extremists. There was no indication in the video about when the beheadings took place.
囚犯被迫跪在沙滩上，然后同时被斩首。这种带有表演性质的暴行已经成为伊斯兰国极端分子的标志。视频中没有显示斩首的时间。
The lead executioner speaks in fluent English with an American accent, and his words are translated in Arabic subtitles. Under the title “A Message Signed With Blood to the Nation of the Cross,” he emphasizes that the fighters are just one part of the broader Islamic State group.
刽子手首领使用带有美国口音的流利英语，他的话被翻译成阿拉伯语字幕。视频标题为《用血签名的讯息，发给十字架国家》(A Message Signed With Blood to the Nation of the Cross)。他强调，这些战士只是更壮大的伊斯兰国组织的部分成员。
“Oh, people, recently you have seen us on the hills of as-Sham and Dabiq’s plain, chopping off the heads that have been carrying the cross for a long time,” he said, using Arabic terms for localities in and around Syria. “Today, we are on the south of Rome, on the land of Islam, Libya, sending another message.”
“近来你们已经看到，我们在阿萨马的山丘和达比克平原活动，对那些长期背着十字架的人实施斩首，”他说，阿萨马和达比克是叙利亚一带两个地区的阿拉伯语地名。“今天，我们在罗马以南，在伊斯兰、利比亚的土地上，发出了另一条讯息。”
He implies that they are taking revenge for the killing of Osama bin Laden by American commandos and his burial at sea, saying, “The sea you’ve hidden Sheikh Osama bin Laden’s body in, we swear to Allah we will mix it with your blood.”
他暗示，他们正在报仇，因为美国突击队杀死了乌萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)，并对他进行了海葬。他说“你们把谢赫奥萨马·本·拉登的尸体藏在海中，我们向真主发誓，要用你们的血来染红海水”。
He even invokes prophecies favored by Islamic State leaders about an apocalyptic clash with the West: “We will conquer Rome, by God’s permission.”
他甚至引用了一条关于和西方之间进行终极决战的预言：“在神的许可下，我们会战胜罗马。”伊斯兰国领导者很喜欢这条预言。
But one subtitle adds that the killing is also retaliation for a sectarian dispute that flared in Egypt five years ago over a Coptic Christian woman, Camilia Shehata, then 25, the wife of a Coptic Christian priest. She disappeared for a time, and many Muslims believe she tried to convert to Islam, only to be kidnapped by her husband and members of the Coptic Church.
但一条字幕显示，这场杀戮也是为了复仇，因为五年前，一名女性科普特基督徒曾在埃及引起宗派纷争。这名女性名叫卡米莉亚·施哈塔(Camilia Shehata)，25岁，是一位科普特基督教牧师的妻子。她失踪了一段时间，许多穆斯林都认为，她试图皈依伊斯兰教，结果被丈夫和科普特教会的成员绑架了。
Ms. Shehata briefly became a cause célèbre among Islamist militants, before the Arab Spring eclipsed such skirmishes.
施哈塔案成为了伊斯兰好战分子中的一个轰动事件，但不久之后，“阿拉伯之春”就把人们的注意力从这种小型冲突上引开了。
“This filthy blood is just some of what awaits you, in revenge for Camelia and her sisters,” a caption declares, as blood from the decapitated prisoners darkens the waves.
当被斩首囚犯流下的鲜血染红海浪时，一条字幕显示。“我们要为卡米莉亚和她的姐妹们复仇，未来还有更多肮脏的鲜血等着你们。”
Analysts said the video challenged the presumptions of many Western analysts that militants in places like Libya might be adopting the banner of the Islamic State for its notoriety without signing on to its bloodthirsty and messianic ideology.
分析人士称，这段视频令很多西方分析家的假设遭受挑战，因为他们曾经认为，利比亚的地方武装可能只是使用伊斯兰国的旗帜，以便借用其名声，但实际上没有伊斯兰国那种嗜血手段和救世主思想。