Netflix is in preliminary discussions with a handful of Chinese media companies to explore how it can bring its streaming service to China, a development that has the potential to increase its subscriber counts but also faces significant challenges, including censorship.
Netflix正在同数家中国媒体公司进行初步的商讨，探究如何将其流媒体服务引进中国，这一进展有望为Netflix带来更多的订阅用户，不过也会带来相当大的挑战，其中包括审查制度。
Netflix has held talks with Wasu Media Holding, an Internet company backed by Jack Ma, the executive chairman of Alibaba Group Holding, and BesTV New Media, a Shanghai-based media group, according to one person with knowledge of the discussions who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Netflix has also had discussions with other Chinese companies that have the licenses needed to operate streaming television services in the country.
一位不愿透露姓名的知情人士表示，Netflix已经同华数传媒和百视通新媒体进行了洽谈。华数传媒是阿里巴巴集团执行总裁马云所投资的一家互联网公司，而百视通新媒体则是一家总部在上海的媒体集团。Netflix也同其他中国公司进行了商洽，这些公司都有在中国提供流媒体电视服务所需的牌照。
Shares in Netflix surged 4.5 percent to $613.25 Friday on the news, which was first reported by Bloomberg.
彭博社(Bloomberg)最先就这一消息进行了报道，Netflix的股价在周五猛增4.5%，升至每股613.25美元。
The development is part of Netflix’s broader quest to expand into 200 countries by the end of 2016, faster than it previously had forecast. The company is seeking to bolster its international presence after experiencing slowing growth in the United States.
Netflix计划在2016年末以前把受众市场扩大到200个国家，这一速度比之前预测的要快的多，而与中国公司的洽谈则是该计划的一部分。美国本土的增长出现放缓后，公司正在努力增强其在国际市场的势力。
Netflix now operates in more than 50 countries. Outside of China, Netflix does not work with other operating partners.
Netflix目前在50多个国家运营，除中国外，Netflix并未同任何运营商进行过合作。
Operating in China poses a number of challenges. One is that Netflix would most likely need to censor the programming available on its service. Another issue is whether it owns the rights to stream programs in the country. While Netflix now seeks global rights when it strikes content deals, the company previously licensed some of its more notable original content to other companies in China. “House of Cards,” for instance, already is popular on a streaming site called Sohu.com.
Netflix在中国的运营面临着一系列的挑战，其中一个问题就是，Netflix很有可能需要对其提供的电视节目进行审核，而另外一个问题则是Netflix是否有权在中国提供流媒体节目。Netflix在进行内容交易的同时力图获取内容的国际版权，此前Netflix将自己的一些著名的原创剧授权给了中国的一些公司，例如已经在搜狐流媒体网站上热播的《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)。
Separately, other ad-supported video sites in China offer programming free that is available on Netflix in the United States.
此外，在中国的一些依靠广告收入维持的视频网站上，可以免费看到Netflix在美国提供的节目。
In January, Netflix called its ambitions for China “modest” and said that it planned to operate a “small service” in the country if it is able to obtain required permissions.
今年1月，Netflix形容自己进军中国市场的目标是“适度”的，并表示如果能获得必要的许可，将计划在中国提供“小规模服务”。
“If we go, it will be a modest investment,” Reed Hastings, Netflix’s chief executive, said in a conference call in January. “Because we won’t have that much content, we’re going to be very cautious and feel our way along through that process, if we’re able to get that license.”
“如果我们要进军中国市场，将会是进行适度的投资，”Netflix的首席执行官里德·哈斯廷斯(Reed Hastings)在1月份的一场电话会议中说道，“因为我们不会有那么多的内容，所以会非常的谨慎，并在这一过程中探索着前进，前提是我们能够得到牌照的话。”