BEIJING — Fourteen films on subjects ranging from life in Tibet to a drug-fueled romance have been chosen to compete for the main Golden Goblet award at this year’s Shanghai International Film Festival.
北京——今年的上海国际电影节，共有14部影片入围主竞赛单元，角逐金爵奖。这些片子题材多种多样，有的描述了西藏的生活，有的讲的是与毒品有关的爱情故事。
Among the films announced on Thursday are Werner Herzog’s “Salt and Fire,” starring Veronica Ferres, Michael Shannon and Gael García Bernal, about a scientist who teams up with a corporation after a volcano disaster in South America, which is a world premiere; and Bruce Beresford’s “Mr. Church,” a coming-of-age drama starring Eddie Murphy.
入围名单于上周四宣布，其中包括由沃纳·赫尔佐格(Werner Herzog)执导，维罗尼卡·费瑞尔(Veronica Ferres)、迈克尔·珊农(Michael Shannon)和盖尔·加西亚·贝纳尔(Gael García Bernal)主演的《盐与火》(Salt and Fire)，讲的是南美洲爆发火山灾害后，一名科学家和一家公司合作的故事，该片为世界首映；以及由布鲁斯·贝雷斯福德(Bruce Beresford)执导，艾迪·墨菲(Eddie Murphy)主演的剧情片《丘奇先生》(Mr. Church)，讲的是关于成长的故事。
The 19th edition of the festival, China’s most prominent international film event, will run June 11-19. A screening of “Cold War II,” the sequel to the Hong Kong cop thriller “Cold War” (2012), starring Chow Yun-fat, Tony Leung Ka-fai and Aaron Kwok, will kick off the festivities.
上海国际电影节是中国最具影响力的国际电影活动，今年为第19届，将于6月11至19日举办。开幕片定为由周润发、梁家辉和郭富城主演的《寒战2》，是香港悬疑警匪片《寒战》(2012)的续集。
The competition for the Golden Goblet, the festival’s top award, includes three films by Chinese directors: Liu Jie’s “De Lan” and Zhang Yang’s “Soul on a String,” both set in Tibet, as well as Cao Baoping’s “Coke and Bull.” Other films from Asia include the Filipino film “Hamog,” directed by Ralston Jover, about street children in Manila, and the Japanese film “The Projects,” directed by Junji Sakamoto, about an elderly couple living in a danchi, or public housing complex.
角逐电影节最高奖项金爵奖的影片，有三部由中国导演执导：刘杰的《德兰》和张杨的《皮绳上的魂》均把故事背景设在西藏，另外一部则为曹保平的《追凶者也》。其他亚洲影片包括菲律宾导演罗斯顿·乔夫的《雾》(Hamog)和日本导演坂本顺治(Junji Sakamoto)的《团地》。前者讲的是马尼拉街头流浪儿的故事；后者讲的是住在团地——日本公共住宅区——里的一对老夫妇的故事。
“In Embryo,” directorial debut of the Danish Hollywood actor Ulrich Thomsen (“The Celebration, ” from 1998), will have its world premiere at the festival. The film is a gritty love story about a drug dealer, played by Ross McCall.
丹麦裔好莱坞演员乌尔里奇·汤姆森（Ulrich Thomsen，代表作有1998年的《家族庆典》[The Celebration]）执导的首部作品《萌芽》(In Embryo)，将在本届电影节上进行世界首映。它讲述了由罗斯·麦克科尔(Ross McCal)饰演的毒贩经历的一段残酷爱情故事。
Other films in the main competition include “Flowers of Evil” by the Finnish director Antti Jokinen, “Forest, 4 a.m.” by the Polish director Jan Jakub Kolski, “Hear the Silence” by the German director Ed Ehrenberg, “Hanna’s Sleeping Dogs” by the Austrian director Andreas Gruber, “See You in Texas” by the Italian director Vito Palmieri, and “Sound and Fury” by the Iranian director Hooman Seyadi.
主竞赛单元的其他影片还包括芬兰导演安提·乔金恩(Antti Jokinen)的《恶之花》(Flowers of Evil)、波兰导演扬·雅库布·科尔斯基(Jan Jakub Kolski)的《弗罗斯特，凌晨四点》(Forest, 4 a.m)、德国导演埃德·埃伦伯格(Ed Ehrenberg)的《听见寂静》(Hear the Silence)、奥地利导演安德瑞拉斯·格鲁伯(Andreas Gruber)的《汉娜睡狗》(Hanna’s Sleeping Dogs)、意大利导演维托·帕尔米耶(Vito Palmieri)的《德州见》(See You in Texas)，以及伊朗导演胡曼·塞耶迪(Hooman Seyadi)的《喧哗与骚动》(Sound and Fury)。
The jury will be led by the Serbian director Emir Kusturica.
本届金爵奖评委会主席将由塞尔维亚导演埃米尔·库斯图里卡(Emir Kusturica)担任。
The finalists for the documentary competition include Hogir Hirori’s “The Girl Who Saved My Life,” about the Kurdish director’s return to his homeland after the rise of the Islamic State, and Tomer Heymann’s “Mr. Gaga” which tells the story of Ohad Naharin, the Israeli choreographer and artistic director of the Batsheva Dance Company in Tel Aviv.
纪录片单元的入围影片包括霍杰·希罗瑞(Hogir Hirori)的《救我一命的女孩》(The Girl Who Saved My Life)，讲的是这位库尔德导演在伊斯兰国(Islamic State)崛起后重返故乡的故事；以及《嘎嘎先生》(Mr. Gaga)，讲的是以色列编舞家、特拉维夫巴希瓦舞团(Batsheva Dance Company)艺术总监欧汉·纳哈林(Ohad Naharin)的故事。