WUHAN, China — The two-story employment complex here, like job centers across China, is crowded with educated young people who are trying to figure out their futures in a country where the job market still prizes assembly-line workers willing to labor monotonous hours on backless stools.
中国武汉——与中国各地的就业中心一样，这里的一栋两层楼招聘中心里挤满了受过教育的年轻人。他们努力在这个国家寻找未来，这里的就业市场仍然倾向于那些愿意在无靠背板凳上从事单调工作的流水线工人。
Among them is Zheng Yilong, who graduated from a university three months ago and refuses to consider a factory job even though his degree is in machinery design. He seeks a desk job instead. Sitting at the employers’ booths are much older factory managers like Jin Tao who despair of finding the workers they need.
求职者之一是郑易龙（音译）。他三个月前大学毕业，拿的虽然是机械设计的学位，却不愿意去工厂工作。他想找一份办公室工作。坐在招聘摊位里的都是些像金涛（音译）这样的工厂经理，年纪比郑易龙大得多。金涛觉得，没什么希望找到他们需要的工人。
“I see the problem mostly as an education mismatch problem,” Mr. Jin said. “I’m willing to pay more than 3,000 renminbi a month, which is more than what fresh college graduates are getting.” (That’s about $500.) “I’m also willing to give training, but the young people now with college degrees just don’t want to work in factories.”
“我觉得这主要是教育错位的问题，”金涛说。“我愿意付超过3000元人民币的月薪，这比刚刚毕业的大学生能拿到的工资要高……我还愿意提供培训，现在呢，有大学学位的年轻人就是不愿意去工厂工作。”
Addressing the mismatch in skills and expectations here and across China is a central issue facing the country’s leaders as they gather on Saturday in Beijing. They will be convening for a four-day meeting, the Third Plenum, that is expected to set the tone for Chinese economic and political policy making for the next five years.
如何解决中国各地人员技能和期望错位的问题，将是本周六在北京召开的领导人会议的中心议题之一。他们将召开一次为期四天的会议，亦即三中全会。此次会议预计会为中国未来五年的经济和政治政策奠定基调。
They will discuss whether to cut consumption taxes, deregulate banking and currency markets, and break up state-owned monopolies that have slowed growth in high-end sectors like telecommunications. The common theme of all the policies: how to create a consumer-led economy and arrest a steep increase in unemployment among young, educated Chinese.
他们将讨论是否降低消费税，是否放松对银行和货币市场的管制，是否打破国有企业垄断市场的局面。国有企业的垄断已经延缓了通讯等高端产业的发展。所有政策的共同主题就是，如何创造一个由消费者带动的经济，遏制受过教育的中国年轻人失业率激增的现象。
China has relied for the past three decades on unrelenting, even manic, construction of ever more factories, bridges, roads and apartment towers. But that is producing chronic overcapacity together with an acute shortage of blue-collar labor.
过去30年，中国一直依赖以迅猛乃至疯狂的方式不断建设工厂、桥梁、公路和住宅楼。但是，这种做法引起了长期的产能过剩，同时导致蓝领工人奇缺。
In a speech to trade union officials published on Monday, Prime Minister Li Keqiang said securing enough jobs for citizens was his government’s top economic priority.
周一发布的中国总理李克强对工会官员的讲话称，本届政府在经济上的首要任务就是为人们创造足够的就业机会。
“Employment is the biggest thing for well-being,” Mr. Li said. “The government must not slacken on this for one moment, and we must constantly focus on this point. For us, stable growth is mainly for the sake of maintaining employment.”
“就业是最大的民生。”李克强说。“政府须臾不敢松劲，我们时时盯着这一条。对我们来说，稳增长主要是为了保就业。”
Similar plenums in 2003 and 2008 produced calls for a shift to a more sustainable economy based on more consumption, more high-end services like finance and more high-tech jobs. The meetings carry their name because they are the third gatherings of the Communist leadership in each five-year term of the party’s Central Committee; the first two plenums mainly involve personnel changes.
2003年和2008年的三中全会也呼吁转向更具持续性的经济增长方式，方法是拉动消费、发展金融等高端服务和创造更多高科技工作岗位。这些会议之所以被称作三中全会，是因为它们是共产党领导层在中央委员会每个五年任期内的第三次全会；前两次全会的主要议题都是人事变动。
Actual changes in economic policy have been slow despite vows of reform. A big impediment to creating a consumer economy are the low incomes of a generation of China’s young people, the country’s would-be consumers.
虽然政府多次承诺改革，经济政策方面的实际变化却一直比较缓慢。创造消费型经济体的最大障碍之一是，中国年轻一代的收入过低，而这些人正是中国未来的消费者。
Born in an era of ever-rising prosperity and mostly only children because of the government’s “one child” policy, young people across China consistently say in interviews that they tend not to share their parents’ compulsion for saving for retirement and children’s educations. Even so, they seldom have the incomes to consume on the scale of the young Americans and Europeans whom they admire and envy.
中国各地的年轻人出生在一个日益繁荣的年代，由于中国政府的“独生子女”政策，他们大多是独生子女。这些年轻人一直在各种采访中表示，他们不会像父母那样为养老和子女教育存钱。即便如此，他们还是很少能获得足够的收入，无法像他们羡慕和嫉妒的欧美年轻人那样消费。
Mr. Zheng spends almost as much on new clothes each month as he does on food or rent, he says. But as is common for a generation facing high jobless rates — 25 percent or more for recent college graduates — he relies on family and savings to pay for his lifestyle while looking for the right job. That puts a limit on his overall spending. “I want a job for which I was trained, or else my education will be wasted. I don’t want to work in a factory,” he said.
郑易龙说，他每个月花在新衣服上的钱跟饭费和房租差不多。但是，跟面临高失业率——近期毕业的大学生的失业率为25%以上——的这一代人的普遍处境一样，他一边要寻找合适的工作，一边还要靠家人和积蓄来维持自己的生活方式。这一来，他的支出总额就受到了限制。他说，“我希望能找到一份专业对口的工作，不然就白学了。我不想去工厂工作。”
Complicating matters is that many young people are avoiding lower-end service jobs as well as factory jobs. The high school graduation rate in China is rapidly approaching three-quarters of young people, similar to the United States. The number of university graduates in China has nearly quintupled since 2000.
使局面更加复杂的事情是，很多年轻人不光不愿意接受工厂工作，也不愿意接受低端服务工作。中国年轻人的高中毕业率正在迅速接近四分之三，大致与美国的水平相当。自2000年以来，中国的大学毕业生人数增加了将近四倍。
Cultural norms frequently discourage high school and college graduates from accepting jobs in factories or even restaurants. For many young people, the most prized job is a position in a government or Communist Party bureaucracy, which is seen as providing security, healthy wages and benefits — and the perks that come with exercising power, such as special investment opportunities ahead of initial public offerings and sometimes outright corruption.
文化习俗时常致使高中及大学毕业生不愿接受工厂及餐厅工作。对于很多年轻人来说，最受青睐的工作是在政府及共产党官僚机构任职，人们认为这些工作能够提供保障，可观的工资和福利，还可以通过弄权获得额外收入，比如在首次公开募股前获得特殊的投资机会，有时更是赤裸裸的贪污。
Zhong Hui, a 23-year-old manager in a hot pot restaurant chain, said that he was struggling to find waiters and dishwashers despite offering $300 to $400 a month plus lodging in air-conditioned dormitories.
23岁的钟辉（音译）是一家火锅连锁店的经理。他表示，尽管开出了300至400美元（约合1830至2440元人民币）的薪金，提供有空调的宿舍，他还是很难找到服务员和洗碗工。
“It is not easy to find workers as people believe in their hearts that being in the service industry and serving other people is shameful. Parents do not want their children to work in services either,” Mr. Zhong said.
钟辉说，“招工不容易，因为人们心里认为在服务业工作、为他人服务是不体面的。家长也不希望自己的孩子从事服务工作。”
Wuhan is an industrial hub of nearly 10 million people near the center of the country. The century-old, 700-mile rail line from Wuhan to Beijing was the country’s first and it became a spine of economic development, although it was eclipsed a year ago by a parallel, high-speed line on which bullet trains now hurtle at 185 miles an hour.
武汉是一个工业中心，位于中国中部，有将近1000万人口。武汉至北京的铁路线长达700英里（约合1127公里），已有百年历史，是中国的第一条铁路线，并已成为经济发展的脊柱，虽然并行的高速铁路于一年前通车，使它黯然失色。高速铁路上的高速列车目前的时速达到了185英里。
What keeps the Wuhan economy ticking is increasing investment. Drive across the city in the middle of the night and what is striking is that at least half the many construction sites are floodlit, huge cranes still moving as workers labor around the clock to build more apartment towers, roads and other projects.
促使武汉经济照常发展的是不断增加的投资。午夜驱车穿越这个城市，引人注目的是众多建筑工地中至少有一半依然灯火通明，大吊车仍在运转，工人们夜以继日地建设更多的公寓大楼，马路及其他工程。
Powering that investment is an unending flow of cheap loans from state-owned banks. China’s central bank has opened the spigots of monetary stimulus each time the economy has started to slow sharply in the past five years. Like cities across China, Wuhan has borrowed heavily to finance local growth as have the companies here.
投资的助力是源源不断的来自国有银行的低息贷款。过去五年当中，每当经济开始急剧放缓的时候，中国的中央银行就会采取货币刺激政策。与中国的其他城市一样，武汉大量举债为当地经济增长提供资金，当地的很多公司也是如此。
To be sure, young Chinese who are able to find well-paid jobs are starting to spend money. Zeng Danni, a 25-year-old gynecologist with long hair and fashionable clothes, prowled a Ford dealership here on a recent afternoon with a friend and her friend’s husband, looking for a sporty car to buy in a shade of blue that she regards as pretty and youthful.
当然，那些有能力找到高收入工作的中国年轻人已经开始花钱消费。25岁的曾丹妮（音）是一名妇科医生，长发披肩、衣着时尚。最近的一个下午，曾丹妮与一名朋友及朋友的丈夫在一个福特(Ford)汽车经销店徘徊，他们想要购买一辆蓝色的运动型汽车，她认为蓝色既漂亮，又充满活力。
“I am not taking out any loans for this purchase since the interest rates are too high. I am buying from our savings,” she said, adding that, “My husband works in building safety design and we don’t have any kids yet.”
“我不打算贷款买车，因为利息太高了。我靠我们的积蓄购买，”她说，并补充道，“我丈夫从事建筑安全设计工作，我们还没有孩子。”
Young Chinese may still be more fortunate than many young people in the West, in that at least factory and restaurant jobs are available. But without broader policy changes, economists question how the Chinese economy will produce enough desirable jobs to bring down youth unemployment, particularly among college graduates, a group that has been among the most politically volatile in China.
中国的年轻人或许仍比西方的许多年轻人幸运，因为他们至少可以找到工厂或餐厅的工作。但是，如果没有更广范围的政策变化，经济学家质疑中国经济如何能创造足够多的理想工作，由此降低年轻人的失业率，特别是大学生。在中国，大学生一直是政治上最不稳定的群体之一。
“If you want just any job, you can get one, 100 percent for sure — as long as you are not picky,” Mr. Zheng said. “I think there is a mismatch between the jobs that are available and what I am looking for.”
“如果只是想随便找份工作，那你百分之百可以找到，只要你不挑剔。”郑易龙说。“我觉得，能到手的工作岗位与我想找的工作存在差距。”