For years, Bob Dylan scholars have whispered about a tiny notebook, seen by only a few, in which the master labored over the lyrics to his classic 1975 album “Blood on the Tracks.” Rolling Stone once called it “the Maltese Falcon of Dylanology” for its promise as an interpretive key.
多年来，研究鲍勃·迪伦的学者们传说有一个小小笔记本的存在，只有少数几个人见过，这位大师曾在上面悉心创作了1975年经典专辑《音轨上的血痕》(Blood on the Tracks)的歌词。《滚石》(Rolling Stones)曾说它是“迪伦学的‘马耳他之鹰’”，因为它很可能是一把阐释迪伦歌词涵义的钥匙。
But that notebook, it turns out, is part of a trinity. Sitting in climate-controlled storage in a museum here are two more “Blood on the Tracks” notebooks — unknown to anyone outside of Mr. Dylan’s closest circle — whose pages of microscopic script reveal even more about how Mr. Dylan wrote some of his most famous songs.
但是这个笔记本是三本笔记中的一本。这三个和《音轨上的血痕》有关的笔记本被储存在一个博物馆的恒温仓库里，除了迪伦最亲密的小圈子，没有人知道它们的存在。纸页上细小的字迹显示出迪伦是如何写下其最著名若干歌曲的。
There have long been rumors that Mr. Dylan had stashed away an extensive archive. It is now revealed that he did keep a private trove of his work, dating back to his earliest days as an artist, including lyrics, correspondence, recordings, films and photographs. That archive of 6,000 pieces has recently been acquired by a group of institutions in Oklahoma for an estimated $15 million to $20 million, and is set to become a resource for academic study.
很长一段时间以来，有谣传说迪伦储存了一份丰富的档案。如今表明他手中的确有个私人宝藏，可以追溯到他艺术生涯的最早期，其中包括歌词、通信、录音、电影胶片和照片。这份档案中有6千份材料，近期由俄克拉荷马州一个组织以大约1千5百万到2千万美元的价格获得，它将成为学术研究资源。
In a preview of the Bob Dylan Archive by The New York Times, it is clear that the archives are deeper and more vast than even most Dylan experts could imagine, promising untold insight into the songwriter’s work.
《纽约时报》提前预览了鲍勃·迪伦档案，发现这些文件比大多数迪伦专家所想的都要深刻和广泛，肯定能为研究这位唱作人的作品提供此前不为人知的难以估量的资料。
“It’s going to start anew the way people study Dylan,” said Sean Wilentz, the Princeton historian and author of “Bob Dylan in America,” when told about the existence of the archive.
“这将会令人们以全新的方式研究迪伦，”普林斯顿大学历史学家与《鲍勃·迪伦在美国》(Bob Dylan in America)的作者肖恩·韦伦茨(Sean Wilentz)在谈起这份档案的时候说。
Bought by the George Kaiser Family Foundation — whose namesake is an oil and banking billionaire — and the University of Tulsa, Mr. Dylan’s archives are now being transferred to Oklahoma, the home state of Woody Guthrie, Mr. Dylan’s early idol. After two years of cataloging and digitization, the material will take its place in Tulsa alongside a rare copy of the Declaration of Independence, a cache of Native American art and the papers of Guthrie.
迪伦的这些档案由塔尔萨大学与乔治·凯撒家族基金会(George Kaiser Family Foundation)买下――乔治·凯撒是一位石油与银行业的亿万富翁，如今被运到俄克拉荷马，这里也是迪伦的早期偶像伍迪·格瑟里(Woody Guthrie)的家乡。经过两年的分类与数字化工作之后，这些资料将和塔尔萨大学收藏的珍本《独立宣言》、一批美国原住民艺术与格瑟里的若干文件放在一起。
Mr. Dylan said in a statement that he was glad his archives had found a home “and are to be included with the works of Woody Guthrie and especially alongside all the valuable artifacts from the Native American nations.” He added, with typical understatement, “To me it makes a lot of sense, and it’s a great honor.”
迪伦在一份声明中说，他很高兴自己的档案找到了一个家，“而且将和伍迪·格瑟里的作品，以及珍贵的美国原住民族的艺术品放在一起。”他以典型的轻描淡写补充说，“对于我来说这非常有意义，而且是很大的荣誉。”
With voluminous drafts from every phase of Mr. Dylan’s career, the collection offers a comprehensive look at the working process of a legendarily secretive artist. Dozens of rewrites track the evolution of even minor songs like “Dignity,” which went through more than 40 pages of changes but was still cut from the 1989 album “Oh Mercy.”
这份收藏中包括迪伦各个时期的海量手稿，令人可以全面审视这位以深藏不露著称的艺术家的创作过程。甚至连一些并不著名的歌曲，在创作过程中也经历了几十次的重写，比如《尊严》(Dignity)这首歌做了40页的修改，仍然从他1989年的专辑《哦，仁慈》(Oh Mercy)中被拿掉了。
Classics from the 1960s appear in coffee-stained fragments, their author still working out lines that generations of fans would come to know by heart. (“You know something’s happening here but you,” reads a scribbled early copy of “Ballad of a Thin Man,” omitting “don’t know what it is” and the song’s famous punch line: “Do you, Mister Jones?”) The range of hotel stationery suggests an obsessive self-editor in constant motion.
若干60年代的经典被写在沾满咖啡渍的纸片上，表明它们的作者正在努力修改那些为后来一代代歌迷所熟知的歌词（“你知道有些事正在发生但你，”一份《瘦子之歌》[Ballad of a Thin Man]的早期草稿上凌乱地写着，但没有那句“不知道那是什么”，也没有最著名的那句画龙点睛：“是不是，琼斯先生？”）它们被写在各种酒店的信纸上，表明迪伦沉迷其中，一直持续不断地进行修改。
And while the archive is a further step in the canonization of Mr. Dylan, now 74, as not just a musical icon but also an American literary giant, the documents are tantalizing in what they do not reveal. A card from Barbra Streisand postmarked November 1978, for example, thanks Mr. Dylan for sending flowers and playfully suggests that they make a record together; there is no evidence of a response.
现年74岁的迪伦不仅仅是音乐偶像，也是美国文坛上的巨人，这份档案一方面进一步将他奉上神坛，另一方面，它们未曾透露的信息也同样诱人。比如说，有一张来自芭芭拉·史翠珊(Barbra Streisand)的卡片，日期是1978年11月，上面感谢迪伦送来花束，开玩笑地建议说他俩应该一起合作一张专辑；没有证据表明迪伦曾经回复。
For longtime students, seeing the archive may conjure a familiar feeling of astonishment at just how deep the well of Dylanology goes. There is always far more beneath the surface than anyone could guess. One example of this phenomenon — and of how radically the material could change existing Dylan scholarship — is the “Blood on the Tracks” material.
对于长期研究迪伦的人来说，看到这份档案可能会产生熟悉的震惊之感，惊叹“迪伦学”竟然已经被深挖到如此地步。表面之下隐藏的东西永远比任何人能想到的都要深。对此可以举一个例子，同时也能证明这些材料可以极大地改变目前的迪伦研究，那就是和《音轨上的血痕》有关的材料。
The “little red notebook,” which by most accounts was stolen from Mr. Dylan at some point, circulated among collectors and is now held at the Morgan Library & Museum in New York, with access severely restricted. But the existence of two more books shows how much raw material has been unavailable and unknown for study. The song “Tangled Up in Blue,” with its refracted scenes of a wanderer haunted by a broken relationship, gets a slightly more picaresque telling here, with a refrain absent from the finished recording: “Wish I could lose, these dusty sweatbox blues.” Even in songs that have been pored over for decades, new layers of meaning await discovery.
很多人都觉得这个“小红笔记本”是被人从迪伦身边偷走的，它在各种收藏者之中流传，目前归纽约的摩根图书馆与博物馆所有，借阅受到严格限制。但是这次还发现了两个笔记本，表明还有很多新鲜素材尚未被人所得，也未曾被人所知。《纠结在忧郁中》(Tangled Up in Blue)描写了一个流浪者受破碎恋情困扰的若干场景，在这些本子里增添了一丝流浪汉文学的意味，因为最后的录音里，副歌中这几句被删去了：“真希望我能失去，这些肮脏的牢房布鲁斯”。这些歌就算被研究了几十年，还有新的涵义等待被发现。
The archive also shows the careful work behind even the most disjointed parts of the Dylan oeuvre. “Tarantula,” his book of Beat-like prose poetry, has multiple typescripts, neatly annotated by hand, while the convoluted film “Eat the Document” is represented with a thick sheath of prosaic editing notes (“me fixing my hair — might be interesting”). There are hundreds of original tape reels, unseen concert films and business contracts going back to the very beginning of Mr. Dylan’s career.
这些档案还表明，迪伦作品中那些最为支离破碎的部分也是经过深思熟虑的。他的垮掉派风格散文诗集《狼蛛》(Tarantula)有很多打字机打出的版本，上面有细心的手写注释，那部晦涩难解的电影《吃掉纪录》(Eat the Document)则表现为厚厚的一叠散文体笔记（“我整理头发——可能会有意思的”）。还有几百卷录音带，从未曝光过的演唱会录像和商业合同，可以追溯到迪伦事业生涯的最早期。
Humanizing touches appear, but in small and scattered pieces. There is a wallet from the mid-1960s containing Johnny Cash’s phone number and Otis Redding’s business card. We can see the 1969 telegram from “Peter and Dennis” (Fonda and Hopper, that is) about the use of “It’s Alright, Ma (I’m Only Bleeding)” in the film “Easy Rider,” but the response is by a lawyer. Amid these mountains of paper, Mr. Dylan, the man, remains an enigma.
资料中也有个人化的痕迹，但都是微小而分散的。有一个60年代中期的钱包，里面放着约翰尼·卡什(Johnny Cash)的电话号码和奥蒂斯·雷丁(Otis Redding)的名片。我们还可以看到一份1969年的电报，来自“彼得与丹尼斯”——就是彼得·方达(Peter Fonda)与丹尼斯·霍珀(Dennis Hopper)，他们想把《没问题，妈妈（我只是在流血）》(It’s Alright Ma [I’m Only Bleeding])用在电影《逍遥骑士》(Easy Rider)里，但回信是律师写的。在这些如山的文件中，迪伦本人仍然像个谜团。
“This is an artist whose working process has been as private as his personal life,” Professor Wilentz noted.
“这位艺术家的工作过程和他的私生活一样隐秘，”韦伦茨教授写道。
George B. Kaiser, the driving force behind the acquisition, is far from the cult of rabid Dylandom. In an interview in his spacious office at the Kaiser-Francis Oil Company here, Mr. Kaiser, 73, made clear that he is less of an aficionado of Dylan than an appreciator of his place in American history. “I was taken by Joan Baez in college,” he said, “when she was singing down the block.” (He went to Harvard.)
这次收购的主要促成者乔治·B·凯撒(George B. Kaiser)绝非狂热的迪伦粉丝。73岁的他在凯撒-弗朗西斯石油公司矿场的办公室里接受采访，澄清自己并非迪伦的狂热爱好者，只是欣赏他在美国历史上的地位。“我上大学时喜欢琼·贝兹(Joan Baez),”他说，“她当时在校园里唱歌。”（他上的是哈佛大学）。
With a fortune estimated at more than $7 billion, Mr. Kaiser is the richest man in Oklahoma, although in his plain blue shirt and Casio watch he hardly looks the part. The son of refugees from Nazi Germany, he is a major Democratic fund-raiser in one of the reddest of states, and his family foundation — which Mr. Kaiser has endowed with about $3.4 billion — supports early childhood education and works with women in prison. Five years ago, the foundation acquired Woody Guthrie’s archives, and Mr. Kaiser said that the Guthrie and Dylan deals fit into the organization’s broader mission of revitalizing Tulsa.
凯撒的身家约在70亿美元左右，是俄克拉荷马州首富，但他身穿普通的蓝衬衫，戴着卡西欧手表，看上去完全没有富人样子。他的父辈是从纳粹德国出逃的难民，他本人则是民主党在共和党优势最大的州里最主要的赞助者，他的家族基金（凯撒本人捐助了34亿美元）支持孩子接受早期教育，并为入狱女性提供帮助。五年前，该基金收购了伍迪·格瑟里的档案资料，凯撒说，格瑟里与迪伦都很适合该基金振兴塔尔萨的宏大目标。
“Portland wasn’t always cool; Seattle wasn’t always cool,” Mr. Kaiser said. “One of the ways you can try to make your city cool is by attracting talented young people and hoping that a number of them stick.”
“波特兰并不总是那么酷；西雅图并不总是那么酷，”卡萨说，“我们想让我们的城市变得酷起来，其中一个办法就是吸引有才华的年轻人，并且希望其中一部分人能留下来。”
The foundation built a slick mini-museum for the Guthrie material in downtown Tulsa, with interactive displays for the public and a professional staff for the papers. Then, in September 2014, Glenn Horowitz, a rare-book dealer in New York who had brokered the Guthrie transaction, emailed Ken Levit, the executive director of the Kaiser foundation, teasing an opportunity of “global significance.” The hyperbole, Mr. Levit said, made him think it had to be either Mr. Dylan or the Beatles.
这个基金在塔尔萨市内建立了一个漂亮的小型博物馆，收藏与格瑟里有关的资料，向公众提供互动展，并有一个专业团队维护文献。2014年9月，曾在格瑟里交易中担任中间人的纽约的珍贵书籍交易商格伦·霍洛维茨(Glenn Horowitz)给凯撒基金会的肯·里维特(Ken Levit)发来电子邮件，开玩笑说有个“世界级”的机会。里维特说，这种夸张的语气让他想到，有可能是和迪伦或者“披头士”(Beatles)有关的交易。
Mr. Dylan’s archives had been amassed over the years as he and his office simply placed reams of material in storage. But as curious collectors and institutions made inquiries, and as evidence mounted of the astronomical sums paid at auction for some of his early manuscripts — a handwritten copy of “Like a Rolling Stone” sold for more than $2 million at Sotheby’s in 2014 — Mr. Dylan’s camp eventually hired an in-house archivist and retained Mr. Horowitz.
多年来，迪伦和他的办公室积累了不少档案资料，只是简单地储存起来。但是好奇的收藏家和机构都在打听，再加上他的早年手稿拍卖出了天文数字——2014年苏富比的拍卖会上，一份手写的《像一块滚石》(Like a Rolling Stone)歌词拍出了200多万美元——迪伦的团队最后雇了一个常驻档案管理员，又雇佣了霍洛维茨。
Mr. Horowitz, whose deals for the papers of figures like Norman Mailer, John Updike and Kurt Vonnegut have made him the go-to broker of major literary archives, said that the Dylan collection could have gone to virtually any university. But he did not want it to be treated as just another store of papers inside a giant library. At a place like Harvard, Mr. Horowitz said, “it would almost be as if it was just, after Emerson and after Updike, here comes Bob.”
霍洛维茨曾经为诺曼·梅勒(Norman Mailer)、约翰·厄普代克(John Updike)和科特·冯尼古特(Kert Vonnegut)等人的手稿交易担任过中间人，所以他成了大宗文学档案的专家经纪人，他说，迪伦的收藏可能会被任何大学买下。但他不希望它们被储存在巨型图书管理，和那里储藏的其他文件得到同等待遇。他说，在哈佛大学那样的地方，“几乎就会是这样，先是爱默生(Emerson)，然后是厄普代克，现在又来了鲍勃。”
So he pitched the collection to the Kaiser foundation and the University of Tulsa as a magnet for both scholarly study and international tourism. Most of the material will be housed at the Helmerich Center for American Research, a facility at the Gilcrease Museum, which is affiliated with the university. The Gilcrease has a vast collection of western art and early colonial archives, a fittingly historical setting for a songwriter whose words are regularly cited by Supreme Court justices. Although plans are still being made, the Kaiser foundation is also considering a spot next to the Guthrie museum for a new Dylan gallery that will be open to the public.
于是他向凯撒基金会与塔尔萨大学推销这批藏品，说它们对学术研究和国际旅游业都有吸引力。大多数资料将会存在黑尔梅里希美国研究中心(Helmerich Center for American Research)，这是塔尔萨大学下属的吉尔克里斯博物馆中的一个机构。吉尔克里斯博物馆有大量西方艺术与早期殖民统治时期的资料，它的历史背景很适合这位歌词经常被最高法院法官引用的歌手。计划尚在进行中，凯撒基金会也考虑在格瑟里博物馆旁边建立一个新的迪伦艺术馆，对公众开放。
Access to the bulk of the archive will be restricted, but Steadman Upham, the president of the University of Tulsa — and an avowed Dylan fan — acknowledged that when it comes to experts in this material, the standard academic credentials need not apply. “We will be set up for serious scholars and for people who have a record of being Dylanologists,” he said.
阅读这些资料的权限是受限制的，但塔尔萨大学校长, 忠诚的迪伦歌迷斯蒂德曼·厄普哈姆(Steadman Upham)表示，普通的学术证书并不适用于这个领域内的专家。“我们欢迎严肃的学者，也欢迎那些曾经当过迪伦学家的人们。”
So far, Mr. Dylan has not visited the foundation, the Gilcrease or the university. He had been scheduled to make a stop while passing through Tulsa on tour last year, but a tornado whipping through the region gave him only enough time to play the show and make it to the next town.
迄今，迪伦本人并没有访问过该基金会、格里克斯博物馆或者塔尔萨大学。他去年原计划在巡演途中在塔尔萨短暂停留，但因为有飓风过境，他做完演出就赶去了下一座城市。
When asked about the size of the transaction, Mr. Kaiser and others involved in the deal declined to comment. The full archive was appraised at more than $60 million, with the bulk of it given as a donation; the difference between the appraised value and the purchase price may allow Mr. Dylan to claim a large charitable donation for tax purposes.
被问到这次交易的规模时，凯撒以及所有相关者都拒绝评论。完整的档案资料估价在6千万美元以上，其中大部分都是捐赠；估价价格与收购价格之间的差价可以令迪伦申报大笔慈善捐款款项，作为免税之用。
For Mr. Dylan, another motivation for the deal might be the prestige of an afterlife beside Guthrie, or a center devoted to serious study of his work. Over the last decade or so, he has also tended to his legacy, with the publishing of the first volume of his memoirs, “Chronicles,” in 2004; the release of Martin Scorsese’s documentary “No Direction Home,” in 2005; and even his career-spanning speech at a Grammy event last year.
对于迪伦来说，这笔交易的另一个动机可能是希望去世后自己的资料能与格瑟里的资料放在一起，抑或希望有一个机构能够致力于对他的作品进行严肃研究。过去十年左右的时间里，他开始重视自己的遗产，2004年，他出版了自己回忆录的第一卷，《编年史》(Chronicles)；2005年，马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)推出了他的纪录片《没有回家的方向》(No Direction Home); 去年在一项格莱美活动中，他发表了概括自己毕生事业生涯的演讲。
Mr. Dylan has also long been strategic about releasing material from his back pages, dating to the 1975 release of “The Basement Tapes,” the heavily bootlegged private recordings of his work with the Band from around 1967, and his more recent “Bootleg” series — a collection, now up to 12 volumes, of outtakes, demos and live recordings.
迪伦一直都战略性地从自己的存货中发表东西，1975年，他发行了《地下室录音》(The Basement Tapes)，这是他和“乐队”(Band)1967年左右合作的私人录音，以私录形式广泛流传，他更近一些的《私录》(Bootleg)系列已经发表了12张，是专辑未收录歌曲、小样和现场录音的合集。
The archive deal raises the question of whether other elders of the rock ’n’ roll generation will follow his lead. Some, like Neil Young and Bruce Springsteen, are known to have extensive archives. Yet it is unclear how many more like them have even kept significant papers; what exists is already traded on a voracious collectors’ market.
这次的交易不禁令人想到，其他较为年长的摇滚一代是否会效仿他的榜样。比如尼尔·杨(Neil Young)和布鲁斯·斯普林斯汀(Bruce Springsteen)等人，他们也有大量档案资料。他们当中还有多少人手中持有重要资料，目前尚不分明；现存的资料已经在广泛的收藏家市场上进行着交易。
Jon Landau, the longtime manager of Mr. Springsteen, declined to comment on his client’s papers. But while he acknowledged the need for professional maintenance of decades-old archives of major artists, he also noted the disconnect between the needs of professional archivists and the culture of rock in the 1960s. “Was anybody sitting around worrying about this kind of thing back then?” he said. “We were living in the era of ‘Hope I die before I get old.’”
斯普林斯汀的长期经纪人琼恩·兰道(Jon Landau)拒绝评论斯普林斯汀的书面资料。但他承认，重要艺术家手中拥有几十年历史的资料需要专业人士进行维护，他也指出，对专业档案维护的需求与60年代的摇滚文化之间存在脱节。“那时候谁会担心这种事？”他说，“我们的那个时代崇尚‘最好变老之前就死掉’。”
For the Dylan archive, at least, there is more than enough to study. Aside from lyrics and paperwork, the collection also includes a huge amount of multimedia. Among the plans are for Mr. Dylan’s hundreds of original master tapes to be digitized down to the level of their individual instrumental tracks, or “stems,” with the potential for close examination or even interactive exhibitions that would let a visitor zoom in on the organ or guitar. (The official Dylan website has already begun to experiment with this, letting visitors play with the stems on “Like a Rolling Stone.”)
至少迪伦的这批档案还有很多东西值得研究。除了歌词和书面资料，这批收藏里还有大量多媒体资料。在各种研究计划中，有一项是将迪伦的几百份原始母带数字化，分离出独立的乐器音轨，这样就可以对之进行仔细研究，甚至可以在互动展览上让参观者放大收听某一轨风琴或吉他（迪伦官网已经在做这个实验，让参观者自己操纵《像一块滚石》[Like a Rolling Stone]中的各个音轨）。
There are also some of his earliest recordings, from 1959, and films of Mr. Dylan’s concerts at Massey Hall in Toronto in 1980 and the Supper Club in New York in 1993. One film in particular seems destined to be viewed again and again in Tulsa. It is of rehearsals for Mr. Dylan’s “Rolling Thunder Revue” tour in 1975, in which he sits with a few musicians, working through the chords and lyrics of a particularly well-known song, but one he didn’t write.
还有一些来自1959年的最早录音，以及迪伦1980年在多伦多的梅西大厅、1993年在纽约的晚餐俱乐部的演出录像。其中一份录像肯定会在塔尔萨被一再播放。那是迪伦在1975年的“滚雷巡演”(Rolling Thunder Revue)期间排练的录像，他和一些乐手在一起，练习一首名曲的歌词与和弦，不过这首歌并不是他写的。
It was “This Land Is Your Land,” by Woody Guthrie.
那正是伍迪·格瑟里的《这是你的土地》(This Land Is Your Land)。