Thirty-year-old documents newly released by the British government reveal just how severely America’s decision to invade the Caribbean island of Grenada in 1983 tested the warm ties between Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and President Ronald Reagan.
从英国政府最近公布的一些有30年历史的文件中可以看到，美国于1983年入侵加勒比海岛国格林纳达的决定，对时任英国首相的玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)和美国总统罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)之间的友好关系是一次多么严峻的考验。
While the two leaders had a strong and affectionate personal rapport, the British official papers reveal how little warning Mrs. Thatcher was given about the pending military invasion, a move that left the British irritated, bewildered and disappointed. They also show how Mr. Reagan justified the secrecy as a way to prevent leaks, and how the British later concluded that the invasion had in fact been planned long in advance. At one point during tense written exchanges, both leaders claimed, in defense of their opposing approaches to the unrest in Grenada, that lives were at stake.
据这些英国官方文件披露，虽然两位领导人有着坚实而融洽的私交，可是对于行将发生的军事入侵行动，撒切尔几乎没有得到任何警示，此举既让英国人大为光火，又让他们感到困惑和失望。文件还披露了里根是如何以保密为由，防止消息外泄的，并披露了英国人之所以在后来得出结论，认为此次入侵实际上是一次提前策划了许久的行动的原因。在双方剑拔弩张的书面交流中，为了捍卫他们各自在处置格林纳达动乱上相左的意见，双方领导人都表示现在到了性命攸关的时刻。
The Americans, citing fears of Cuban and Soviet influence, invaded Grenada, a former British colony, after its prime minister, Maurice Bishop, was assassinated on Oct. 19, 1983. When finally consulted, the British counseled against military action, arguing that it would be seen as intervening in the internal affairs of a small nation, “however unattractive its regime,” and pointed out that Mr. Bishop was “himself, of course, a Marxist.”
美国人以害怕古巴和苏联影响格林纳达为由，入侵了该国，格林纳达是英国前殖民地，该国总理莫里斯·毕晓普(Maurice Bishop)于1983年10月19日遇刺身亡。当最终被问及己方的立场时，英国的意见是反对军事行动，他们认为，“无论该国当权者多么不起眼，”军事行动都会被外界认为是在干涉一个小国的内政，英国人还指出，毕晓普“本人，无疑是一名马克思主义者”。
The British government files are being made public under rules that allow the release of documents after 30 years. The government made some available online Wednesday before their official release on Thursday.
英国政府的文件得以公开，根据的是准许在30年后披露文件的规定。政府正式于周四公开了文件，在此前的周三，政府在网上已经公开了部分文件。
In her memoirs, Mrs. Thatcher, who died in April, described how dismayed and let down she felt by what happened in Grenada, which retained Queen Elizabeth II as head of state when it became independent in 1974. Mrs. Thatcher summarized and even quoted from the documents released this week, but their full publication gives a detailed picture of what she described in her book as an “unhappy time” of discord a year after more serious diplomatic tension with the United States over Britain’s military effort to recover the Falkland Islands after Argentina invaded.
据今年4月去世的撒切尔在她的回忆录里描述，她对发生在格林纳达的事情深感沮丧和失望，该国在1974年成为独立国家时，依然保持了伊丽莎白二世女王(Queen Elizabeth II)的国家元首地位。撒切尔概述，甚至援引了本周被披露的文件，不过，这些文件的全面发表展现了时局的详情，她在自己的书里形容，那是一段相互不和的“不快时光”，此前一年，就在阿根廷入侵福克兰群岛之后，由于英国欲以武力收复该岛，致使美英陷入了更加紧张的外交局面。
On the evening of Oct. 24, 1983, two messages were sent by Washington, hours after a British minister had told Parliament that there was no indication of an imminent American invasion. The first message said that the United States was considering a request from some Caribbean nations to intervene; the second, sent within four hours, said that it had decided to go ahead. Replying, Mrs. Thatcher said that Mr. Reagan’s decision “causes us the gravest concern” and warned that the queen’s representative on the island, the governor general, had told a British official that if there were an intervention, “he would probably be killed.”
1983年10月24日，英国的一名部长对国会说，没有迹象表明美国即将入侵格林纳达，他说完这番话几个小时，美国政府就在晚间发来了两条讯息。讯息之一说，美国正在考虑一些加勒比海国家提出的干预请求；在四个小时之内发出的第二条讯息说，美国已经决定采取行动。撒切尔在回复中说，里根的决定“引起了英方的严重关切”，她还警告说，英女王在该国的代表，即格林纳达总督，已经对一名英国官员表示，如果出现军事干预行动，“他可能会被杀。”
“I cannot conceal that I am deeply disturbed by your latest communication,” she wrote to Mr. Reagan, adding that she hoped “that even at this late stage you will take it into account before events are irrevocable.”
她在给里根的信中写道：“实不相瞒，你上次说的事情令我深感不安。”并表示她的希望是“即使已经到了这么晚的阶段，你也能在事件变得不可逆转之前考虑这一点。”
The invasion took place the next day.
第二天入侵就发生了。
In an apologetic, 15-minute phone call on Oct. 26, Mr. Reagan, according to a British diplomatic note, began by saying that “if he was in London he would throw his hat in the door first” — an expression suggesting he would check to see whether or not he was welcome.
英国的一份外交文件显示，10月26日，里根歉疚地跟撒切尔夫人通了15分钟电话，头一句就说“如果他在伦敦，他会先把自己的帽子扔到门里”——这个说法暗示他想看看对方是不是欢迎自己。
“He very much regretted the embarrassment that had been caused,” the document said, giving the president’s account of how “he had been woken at three o’clock in the morning when on a so-called golfing vacation” with a request to intervene, and emphasizing how “lives were at stake” because of the risk of leaks. “The military had only a matter of hours,” he said.
这份文件说：“对于他引起的尴尬，他感到非常遗憾。”文件中不仅描述了里根说自己如何“在所谓的高尔夫度假期间，凌晨三点”被干预请求叫醒，而且强调了泄漏风险如何导致“性命攸关”。“军队只有几个小时的时间，”他说。
But a later briefing note by Mrs. Thatcher’s foreign policy adviser, Anthony Parsons, concluded that “it is becoming increasingly obvious that” the United States “had been planning the Grenada move for some time” and that “some plain speaking” with the Americans was needed.
但是在后来的一份简报中，撒切尔夫人的外交政策顾问安东尼·帕森斯(Anthony Parsons)推断道说，“事情越来越明显：美国规划格林纳达行动已经有一段时间了，”有必要跟美国人进行一些“直白的谈话”。
One argument was that America’s failure to consult made it harder to defend the contentious deployment of nuclear-tipped cruise missiles on British soil. A record of a breakfast meeting in November 1983 with the American deputy secretary of state, Kenneth Dam, noted that Mrs. Thatcher had argued, “to say that all this had put us in difficulty was putting it very mildly.”
有一种说法是，美国没有跟人商量就在英国的土地上部署装有核弹头的巡航导弹，为这个有争议的行动辩护也因此变得更加困难。一份记录指出，1983年11月，撒切尔夫人在跟美国副国务卿肯尼斯·达姆(Kenneth Dam)开早餐会时曾说过：“说这一切让我们全都陷入困境太轻描淡写了一些。”
Grenada was only one of numerous issues covered in the document release, and a summary highlights several others. The most chilling, in a way, is the disclosure that during a routine servicing of nuclear weapons, a technician discovered that a British key could also turn the lock on American nuclear weapons. All the locks were changed.
这些文件涵盖了多个问题，格林纳达只是其中一个，有一份汇总突出了其他几个问题。从某个角度来说，这些文件披露的最令人不寒而栗的是事件是：一次例行维修保养核武器时，技术人员发现，有一把英国的钥匙可以打开美国核武器上的锁。然后所有的锁都换掉了。
The files also contain records of a conversation between Mrs. Thatcher and the German chancellor at the time, Helmut Kohl, in which he described his wish to reduce the number of Turks living in Germany by half, something he said he could not admit publicly. Mr. Kohl is reported as saying that the Turks were from a distinct culture and had not integrated well.
文件中还记录了撒切尔夫人和当时的德国总理赫尔穆特·科尔(Helmut Kohl)之间的一次交谈。他在交谈中说，他希望把生活在德国的土耳其人人数减少一半，他说这是他不能公开承认的东西。有报道说，科尔曾说土耳其人来自一种截然不同的文化，一直不能很好地融入德国社会。
According to a summary of other files covering the years 1979-83, including the purchase by Rupert Murdoch of The Times of London, Mr. Murdoch met Mrs. Thatcher in April 1981. He discussed staff changes and suggested that the prime minister invite the new editor of The Sunday Times, Frank Giles, to her Downing Street office for a drink.
一份对其他文件的汇总涵盖了从1979到1983年发生的事件，其中包括鲁珀特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)收购《泰晤士报》(The Times of London)。这份汇总显示，默多克1981年4月曾与撒切尔夫人见过面。他谈到了人事变动，并建议撒切尔夫人邀请《星期日泰晤士报》(The Sunday Times)的新任编辑弗兰克·贾尔斯(Frank Giles)到她唐宁街的首相府喝一杯。