LONDON — The spin masters are out trying to portray the failure of Iran talks in Geneva this way or that. It was the French who abruptly got tough. No, it was Iran’s insistence that its right to enrich uranium be acknowledged. No, it was just the formidable difficulty of a negotiation between mistrustful adversaries.
伦敦——专家们正在试图以这样或那样的方式描述在日内瓦举行的伊朗核谈判为什么失败。有人说是因为法国人突然强硬了起来。不，是因为伊朗坚持该国浓缩铀的权利应当得到承认。不，原因是互不信任的对手之间举行谈判，本来就有巨大的困难。
In this mess, with its bitter aftertaste, it is worth returning to basics. First, President Hassan Rouhani, the Iranian president, and Mohammad Javad Zarif, Iran’s foreign minister, represent the most serious, credible, moderate and capable negotiators the Islamic Republic is ever likely to produce. There will not be a better opportunity with any other conceivable team within a useful time frame.
置身这样的混乱之中，再加上困境带来的苦涩余味，我们有必要回到基本问题。首先，伊朗总统哈桑·鲁哈尼(Hassan Rouhani)及外长穆罕默德·贾瓦德·扎里夫(Mohammad Javad Zarif)是这个伊斯兰共和国可能出现的最严肃、可靠、温和，且有能力的谈判代表。在妥当的时间范围内，不会出现比现在更好的机会，以及其他可以想象到的团队。
Second, according to people who have spent many hours with them, Rouhani and Zarif are prepared to limit enrichment to 3.5 percent (well short of weapons grade); curtail the number of centrifuges and facilities and place them under enhanced international monitoring; deal with Iran’s 20 percent enriched stockpile by converting it under international supervision into fuel pads for the Tehran research reactor; and find a solution on the heavy-water plant it is building at Arak that could produce plutonium. In return, as these steps are progressively taken, they want sanctions relief and recognition of the right to enrichment.
第二，据与他们相处多个小时的人透露，鲁哈尼和扎里夫准备将浓缩铀的浓度限制在3.5%（远远不够武器级别）；减少离心机和设施的数量，并让它们接受更有力的国际监督；处理浓度为20%的浓缩铀库存，在国际社会的监督下，将其转化为供德黑兰研究用反应堆使用的燃料；想办法处理伊朗目前正在阿拉克建造的，能够生产钚的重水厂。作为交换，他们希望随着这些举措的逐步实施，制裁力度能够减轻，同时承认伊朗浓缩铀的权利。
Third, although Western intelligence agencies believe the Islamic Republic has not taken the decision to make a bomb, Iran’s nuclear program has advanced far enough for the country to have the relevant knowledge. Destroying this know-how is near impossible. Iran knows how to produce weapons-grade fissile material; it may not yet be able to make a deliverable weapon. So, as Stephen Heintz, the president of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, put it to me, “The key for the international community is to put all that capability in a box where it is verifiable, contained and controlled. That is what the deal is about.”
第三，虽然西方情报机构认为伊朗还没有做出制造炸弹的决定，但是伊朗的核计划已经达到了相当先进的水平，绝对掌握了相关知识，而破坏这些技术能力几乎是不可能的。伊朗知道如何制造武器级的可裂变物质，但可能还无法制造可投放的武器。因此，就像洛克菲勒兄弟基金会(Rockefeller Brothers Fund)的总裁斯蒂芬·海因兹(Stephen Heintz)对我说的，“对国际社会来说，关键在于将所有能力置于一个可以验证、限制、控制的框子里。妥协的目的就在于此。”
Fourth, Iranian sanctions weariness on the one hand and U.S. Middle Eastern war weariness on the other have produced a rare moment of mutual interest in exploring openings that might overcome or mitigate decades of hostility that now serve the interests of neither power. Given the powerful forces arrayed against a deal — from Israel to Congress by way of Saudi Arabia and Iranian hard-liners — such readiness is likely to be fleeting.
第四，一方面伊朗已经厌倦了制裁，另一方面，美国对中东战争也已感到厌倦，这就催生了一个难得的契机：双方都有兴趣探索一条能够克服或缓和数十年敌对情绪的途经，现在这种敌对不符合任何国家的利益。鉴于各种强大的力量一致反对达成妥协，包括以色列、美国国会，也包括沙特阿拉伯和伊朗强硬派，这种意愿可能稍纵即逝。
Fifth, Israel has denounced a possible interim deal with Iran. Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, warned American Jewish leaders Sunday that an Iranian nuclear weapon is “coming to a theater near you.” But all this hyperbole — Secretary of State John Kerry has referred to “fear tactics” — cannot mask the fact that, absent an agreement, Israel faces the scenario least in its strategic interest: Iranian centrifuges still spinning, the United States still war averse, with the possibility of having to go it alone in a military strike that might dent but would not stop Iran’s nuclear ambitions and would without doubt ignite regional turmoil.
第五，以色列已经对可能与伊朗达成临时协议一事表示了谴责。周日，以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)向美国犹太人领袖发出警告，称伊朗的核武器“会打到离你家不远的剧院”。但此类夸张的说法——国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)称之为“恐吓战术”——并不能掩盖这样一个事实，即如果不达成协议，以色列会面临最不利于其战略利益的情况：伊朗的离心机继续运转，美国仍然回避战争，以色列可能需要独自开展军事打击，然而此类行动或许会削弱伊朗的核野心，但并不能阻止，而且毫无疑问，这种行动将会引发地区动荡。
All this speaks for the critical importance of seizing the moment and clinching an exacting interim deal that gets all that Iranian nuclear capacity in a verifiable box and builds the confidence needed for a broader accord.
所有这些都说明，把握时机达成一项确凿的临时协议具有重大的意义，这个协议会将伊朗的核能力置于一个可以验证的框架里，也能建立起达成更广泛协议所需要的信任。
A word on France: Its position reflects strong views on nonproliferation, its defense agreement with the United Arab Emirates, and a mistrust of the Islamic Republic that runs deep. There are good reasons for this mistrust. Laurent Fabius, now the foreign minister, was prime minister in the mid-1980s during a wave of Paris bombings that were linked to pro-Palestinian groups but are also believed by French authorities to have had Iranian backing in several instances. Fabius is not about to forget this or cut Rouhani any slack. This is not a bad thing. A deal has to be watertight in blocking Iran’s path to nuclear weapons while acknowledging its right to nuclear energy.
关于法国：法国的立场反映了它对不扩散的强硬态度，与阿拉伯联合酋长国的防务协议，以及对伊斯兰共和国深深的不信任。法国有充分的不信任伊朗的理由。法国外交部长洛朗·法比尤斯(Laurent Fabius)曾在20世纪80年代中期担任法国总理，当时巴黎遭遇了与亲巴勒斯坦组织有关的多起爆炸袭击，法国当局也认为其中几起袭击获得了伊朗的支持。法比尤斯不会忘记此事，也不会放过鲁哈尼。这并非一件坏事。协议的措辞必须滴水不漏，这样才能在认可伊朗的核能使用权的同时，阻止伊朗发展核武器。
Which brings me to Iran’s right to enrich. Iran is a signatory of the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. This refers to “the inalienable right of all the Parties to the Treaty to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.” Many non-nuclear countries, including Germany and Japan and Brazil, have interpreted this as a right to enrich uranium — and they have done so with the agreement of the international community. The United States does not see in the treaty language an inherent “right to enrich,” but President Obama has said, “We respect the right of the Iranian people to access peaceful nuclear energy in the context of Iran meeting its obligations.”
这就要说到伊朗的铀浓缩权利。伊朗是《核不扩散条约》(Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty)的缔约国。条约提到，“所有缔约国享有为和平目的而研究、生产和使用核能的不容剥夺的权利。”包括德国、日本及巴西在内的很多无核国家将这种权利理解为铀浓缩权利，它们在国际社会认可的情况下也这么做了。美国没有从条约的措辞中看出“铀浓缩权利”是一种固有权利，但奥巴马总统已表示，“在伊朗承担其应尽义务的情况下，我们尊重伊朗人和平发展核能的权利。”
For a country like Iran that has threatened Israel with destruction and engaged in international terrorism, the bar must be much higher on the right to low-level, highly monitored, peaceful enrichment. But it is an inescapable and legitimate component of any conceivable deal that would usher Iran into the family of nations — which is where the United States and Israel have common interest in seeing it.
伊朗曾威胁摧毁以色列，并参与国际恐怖主义行动，对于这样一个国家，必须提高对获得铀浓缩权利——在受到大力监督的情况下开展低水平、出于和平目的的铀浓缩活动——的门槛。但铀浓缩权利是任何可能达成的、能够将伊朗引入国际大家庭的协议中不可避免且合理的内容，美国和以色列在理解这一点上具有共同利益。