Nelson Mandela, who led the emancipation of South Africa from white minority rule and served as his country’s first black president, becoming an international emblem of dignity and forbearance, died Thursday. He was 95.
纳尔逊·曼德拉(Nelson Mandela)，把南非从白人少数统治下解放出来的领导者、南非第一位黑人总统、尊严与克制的国际象征，周四离世。享年95岁。
The South African president, Jacob Zuma, announced Mr. Mandela’s death.
南非总统雅各布·祖马(Jacob Zuma)宣布了曼德拉的死讯。
Mr. Mandela had long declared he wanted a quiet exit, but the time he spent in a Pretoria hospital in recent months was a clamor of quarreling family, hungry news media, spotlight-seeking politicians and a national outpouring of affection and loss. The vigil even eclipsed a recent visit by President Obama, who paid homage to Mr. Mandela but decided not to intrude on the privacy of a dying man he considered his hero.
曼德拉长期以来一直明确表示他希望悄然离世，然而他在比勒陀利亚(Pretoria)一家医院的最后几周却充满了喧嚣，既有家庭成员的争吵、新闻媒体的追逐、寻求公众注意的政客的叫嚷，也有南非举国上下的爱戴与痛失感的流露。民众的守夜活动甚至让奥巴马总统对该国的访问黯然失色。奥巴马向曼德拉献上了敬意，但决定不去打扰这位行将辞世的人，这位奥巴马眼里的英雄。
Mr. Mandela will be buried, according to his wishes, in the village of Qunu, where he grew up. The exhumed remains of three of his children were reinterred there in early July under a court order, resolving a family squabble that had played out in the news media.
按照曼德拉的遗愿，他将被安葬在养育他长大的库努村(Qunu)。根据法庭裁决，他的三个已故子女的遗骸已于7月4日移葬在那里，使一桩广受媒体报道的家庭纠纷得以解决。
Mr. Mandela’s quest for freedom took him from the court of tribal royalty to the liberation underground to a prison rock quarry to the presidential suite of Africa’s richest country. And then, when his first term of office was up, unlike so many of the successful revolutionaries he regarded as kindred spirits, he declined a second term and cheerfully handed over power to an elected successor, the country still gnawed by crime, poverty, corruption and disease but a democracy, respected in the world and remarkably at peace.
曼德拉对自由的追求，让他从部落酋长的宫廷走出来，参加到地下解放运动中，也在监狱采石场度过许多时光，最后走进了非洲最富有国家的总统府。与许多他被视为志趣相投的成功革命家不同，他婉拒了第二个总统任期，高高兴兴地把权力交给了选举出来的自己的继任者。南非虽然仍面临着犯罪率高、贫穷、腐败与疾病等各种问题，但作为一个民主国家，它在世界上受到尊重，也处于显著的和平状态。
The question most often asked about Mr. Mandela was how, after whites had systematically humiliated his people, tortured and murdered many of his friends, and cast him into prison for 27 years, he could be so evidently free of spite.
人们最常问的有关曼德拉的一个问题是：在白人有组织地凌辱了他的人民、虐待和谋杀了他的许多朋友，并将他囚禁狱中长达27年后，他如何能如此明确地不怀怨恨。
The government he formed when he finally won the chance was an improbable fusion of races and beliefs, including many of his former oppressors. When he became president, he invited one of his white wardens to the inauguration. Mr. Mandela overcame a personal mistrust bordering on loathing to share both power and a Nobel Peace Prize with the white president who preceded him, F. W. de Klerk.
当他终于赢得了执政的机会后，他组建的政府是不同种族和信仰的不大可能的融合体，其中囊括了许多以往压迫过他的人。就任总统时，他邀请了一名看守过自己的白人狱警出席他的就职典礼。曼德拉克服了对前任白人总统德克勒克(F. W. de Klerk)的个人疑虑乃至厌恶，与他分享了权力与诺贝尔和平奖。
And as president, from 1994 to 1999, he devoted much energy to moderating the bitterness of his black electorate and to reassuring whites against their fears of vengeance.
在1994年至1999年担任总统期间，他花了大量精力去缓和黑人选民的怨恨，同时让白人放心他们不会遭到报复。
The explanation for his absence of rancor, at least in part, is that Mr. Mandela was that rarity among revolutionaries and moral dissidents: a capable statesman, comfortable with compromise and impatient with the doctrinaire.
曼德拉之所以毫无怨恨，至少部分原因在于，他在革命家和道义异见者中属于极其罕见的那种：他是一个能力卓越的政治家，愿意在政治上作出让步，不喜欢教条主义。
When the question was put to Mr. Mandela in an interview for this obituary in 2007 — after such barbarous torment, how do you keep hatred in check? — his answer was almost dismissive: Hating clouds the mind. It gets in the way of strategy. Leaders cannot afford to hate.
2007年，《纽约时报》为撰写这个讣告而采访曼德拉时曾问他，在遭受了如此野蛮的折磨后，他如何能够抑制仇恨？他几乎不屑一顾地回答说，仇恨搅乱人的头脑。它妨碍战略的制定与实施。一个领导者承担不起仇恨的代价。
Except for a youthful flirtation with black nationalism, he seemed to have genuinely transcended the racial passions that tore at his country. Some who worked with him said this apparent magnanimity came easily to him because he always regarded himself as superior to his persecutors.
除了年轻时曾短暂地主张过黑人民族主义外，他似乎真诚地超越了撕裂南非的种族激情。曾与他共过事的一些人说，这种显而易见的宽宏大度对他来得非常自然，因为他一直把自己看作优于迫害他的人。
In his five years as president, Mr. Mandela, though still a sainted figure abroad, lost some luster at home as he strained to hold together a divided populace and to turn a fractious liberation movement into a credible government.
在担任南非总统的五年中，曼德拉虽然在海外仍保持着圣人的形象，他的光环却在国内变得有些黯淡。他勉强地将南非分裂的民众集结在一起，并努力将派系林立的解放运动转变为一个可以信赖的政府。
Some blacks — including Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Mr. Mandela’s former wife, who cultivated a following among the most disaffected blacks — complained that he had moved too slowly to narrow the vast gulf between the impoverished black majority and the more prosperous white minority. Some whites said he had failed to control crime, corruption and cronyism. Some blacks deserted government to make money; some whites emigrated, taking capital and knowledge with them.
一些黑人，包括在怨气最大的黑人群众中拥有很多追随者的前妻温妮·马迪基泽拉·曼德拉(Winnie Madikizela-Mandela)，抱怨他在缩小占人口多数的贫困黑人与占人口少数的富裕白人之间的巨大差距上行动太慢。一些白人则说，他没能控制犯罪、腐败和任人唯亲问题。一些黑人离开了政府去赚钱；一些白人则带着资本和知识移民他国。
Undoubtedly Mr. Mandela had become less attentive to the details of governing, turning over the daily responsibilities to the deputy who would succeed him in 1999, Thabo Mbeki.
的确，曼德拉对执政的具体细节变得不那么上心，将日常事务交给他的副手塔博·姆贝基(Thabo Mbeki)，后者在1999年接替他成为总统。
But few among his countrymen doubted that without his patriarchal authority and political shrewdness South Africa might well have descended into civil war long before it reached its imperfect state of democracy.
但是，他的国人中很少有人怀疑，如果没有他家长式的权威和政治上的精明，南非在发展成为一个不完善的民主国家前，可能早就陷入内战。
After leaving the presidency, Mr. Mandela brought that moral stature to bear elsewhere around the continent, as a peace broker and champion of greater outside investment.
在离开总统职位后，曼德拉运用他的道义声望在非洲大陆其它地方帮助缔结和平，推动更多的外国投资。
Rise of a ‘Troublemaker’
一个”闹事分子”的崛起
Mr. Mandela was deep into a life prison term when he caught the notice of the world as a symbol of the opposition to apartheid, literally “apartness” in the Afrikaans language — a system of racial gerrymandering that stripped blacks of their citizenship and relegated them to reservation-style “homelands” and townships.
曼德拉在服无期徒刑期多年后受到世界注意，成为反种族隔离（apartheid，该词在南非荷兰语中的意思是“分开”）的象征。它是一个以种族划分选区的系统，由此剥夺黑人的公民地位，把他们限制在类似保留地那样的“家园”和城镇里。
Around 1980, exiled leaders of the foremost anti-apartheid movement, the African National Congress, decided that this eloquent lawyer was the perfect hero to humanize their campaign against the system that denied 80 percent of South Africans any voice in their own affairs. “Free Nelson Mandela,” which was already a liberation chant within South Africa, became a pop-chart anthem in Britain, and Mr. Mandela’s face bloomed on placards at student rallies in America aimed at mustering trade sanctions against the apartheid regime.
大约1980年左右，反种族隔离运动中最重要的组织、非洲国民大会(African National Congress)的流亡领导人决定，这位能言善辩的年轻律师是其运动的完美英雄，他能让非国大反种族隔离运动变得人性化，那种制度让80%的南非人对自己的事务没有发言权。已经在南非国内作为解放运动圣歌的《释放曼德拉》，成了上英国流行榜的歌曲。展示曼德拉面孔的牌子雨后春笋般地出现在美国学生的集会上，学生们集会要求对南非种族隔离政权实行贸易制裁。
Mr. Mandela noted with some amusement in his 1994 autobiography, “Long Walk to Freedom,” that this congregation made him the world’s best-known political prisoner without knowing precisely who he was. Probably it was just his impish humor, but he claimed to have been told that when posters went up in London, many young supporters thought Free was his Christian name.
曼德拉在1994年出版的自传《漫漫自由路》(Long Walk to Freedom)中对此表达了些许惊异，他说这些人都不知道我到底是谁，就把我变成了世界上最出名的政治犯。也许是出于顽皮的幽默，他声称有人告诉他，当"释放曼德拉"(Free Mandela)的海报出现在伦敦时，许多年轻的支持者以为“释放”(Free)是他的教名。
In South Africa, though, and among those who followed the country’s affairs more closely, Nelson Mandela was already a name to reckon with.
不过在南非，以及在国外那些更了解南非事务的人当中，纳尔逊·曼德拉已是一个值得重视的名字。
He was born Rolihlahla Mandela on July 18, 1918, in Mvezo, a tiny village of cows, corn and mud huts in the rolling hills of the Transkei, a former British protectorate in the south. His given name, he enjoyed pointing out, translates colloquially as “troublemaker.” He received his more familiar English name from a teacher when he began school at age 7. His father, Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa, was a chief of the Thembu people, a subdivision of the Xhosa nation.
他于1918年7月18日出生于一个只有牛、玉米和泥屋的小村庄姆维索(Mvezo)，姆维索位于当时属于英国保护地的特兰斯凯(Transkei)的丘陵地区。他的本名叫罗利赫拉赫拉·曼德拉(Rolihlahla Mandela)，他喜欢指出，这个名翻译成口语就是“闹事分子”的意思。根据他的自传，他七岁上学时，一位老师给他取了如今这个人们都知道的英文名。他的父亲葛德拉·汉瑞·孟伐肯伊斯瓦(Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa)是科萨族分支腾布人的一个部落酋长。
When Nelson was an infant, his father was stripped of his chieftainship by a British magistrate for insubordination — showing a proud stubborn streak his son willingly claimed as an inheritance.
纳尔逊还是婴儿时，他的父亲因为不顺从被一位英国地方长官剥夺了酋长地位，作为儿子的他十分情愿地声称，他继承了父亲骄傲而固执的脾气。
Nine years later, on the death of his father, young Nelson was taken into the home of the paramount chief of the Thembu — not as an heir to power, but in a position to study it. He would become worldly and westernized, but some of his closest friends would always attribute his regal self-confidence (and his occasional autocratic behavior) to his upbringing in a royal household.
九年后，纳尔逊的父亲去世，他被腾布人最高酋长接收到家中，不是作为权力的继承人，而是得以观察权力的运作。他后来成为一个老成持重且西化的人，但他的一些最密切的朋友总是将他君王般的自信以及他偶尔表现出来的专断行为归结于他在一个王族家庭长大的经历。
Unlike many black South Africans, whose confidence had been crushed by generations of officially proclaimed white superiority, Mr. Mandela never seemed to doubt that he was the equal of any man. “The first thing to remember about Mandela is that he came from a royal family,” said Ahmed Kathrada, an activist who shared a prison cellblock with Mr. Mandela and was part of his inner circle. “That always gave him a strength.”
曼德拉似乎从来没有怀疑过他与任何人都平等的地位。这与许多南非黑人不同，他们的信心被官方世代宣称的白人优越论所摧毁。与曼德拉囚禁在同一监狱、属于他身边圈子的艾哈迈德·卡特拉达(Ahmed Kathrada)说，“关于曼德拉，你要记住的第一点是，他来自一个王族家庭。这总是给了他一种力量。”
In his autobiography, Mr. Mandela recalled eavesdropping on the endless consensus-seeking deliberations of the tribal council, and noticing that the chief worked “like a shepherd.”
曼德拉在自传中回忆偷听部落理事会没完没了的讨论、以寻求共识的情景。他注意到，酋长的工作“就像一个牧羊人”。
“He stays behind the flock,” he continued, “letting the most nimble go out ahead, whereupon the others follow, not realizing that all along they are being directed from behind.”
 “他跟在羊群的后面，”曼德拉继续写道，“让腿脚最灵便的走在最前面，于是乎其他人跟上来，他们都没有意识到他们一直被牧羊人从后面引导着。”
That would often be his own style as leader and president.
这后来也成为曼德拉作为领导人和总统的风格。
Mr. Mandela maintained his close ties to the royal family of the Thembu tribe, a large and influential constituency in the important Transkei region. And his background there gave him useful insights into the sometimes tribal politics of South Africa.
曼德拉一生中都与腾布部落王族家庭保持了密切关系，这个部落构成重要的特兰斯凯(Transkei)地区的一个人口众多、具有影响力的选区。他在那里的背景赋予了他对南非部落政治的有益洞察力。
Most important, it helped him manage the lethal divisions within the large Zulu nation, which was rived by a power struggle between the African National Congress and the Inkatha Freedom Party. While many A.N.C. leaders demonized the Inkatha leader, Mangosuthu Buthelezi, Mr. Mandela embraced him into his new unity government and finally quelled the violence.
最重要的是，这种背景帮助他处理人口众多的祖鲁族内部致命的分裂 。这一分裂的根源在于非国大与因卡塔自由党(Inkatha Freedom Party)之间的权力斗争。虽然许多非国大领导人妖魔化了因卡塔领导人曼戈苏图·布特莱齐(Mangosuthu Buthelezi)，曼德拉还是把他纳入新的团结政府，并最终平息了暴力。
Mr. Mandela once explained in an interview that the key to peace in the Zulu nation was simple: Mr. Buthelezi had been raised as a member of the royal Zulu family, but as a nephew, not in the direct line of succession, leaving him tortured by a sense of insecurity about his position. The solution was to love him into acquiescence.
曼德拉在一次采访中解释说，维持祖鲁民族和平的秘诀其实很简单：布特莱齐是在祖鲁王室中长大的，但他是个侄子，不在直接继承人之列，这使得他对自己的地位有着深痛的不安全感。解决办法就是去爱他，直到他接受你。 
Joining a Movement
加入运动
The enlarging of Mr. Mandela’s outlook began at Methodist missionary schools and the University College of Fort Hare, then the only residential college for blacks in South Africa. Mr. Mandela said later that he had entered the university still thinking of himself as a Xhosa first and foremost, but left with a broader African perspective.
在卫理教会传教士学校和海尔堡大学(the University College of Fort Hare)，曼德拉的视野开始拓宽。海尔堡大学当时是南非唯一的黑人住宿学院。曼德拉在后来的一次采访中说，他进大学时仍视自己首先为科萨人，毕业的时候他则具备了更广阔的非洲视野。
Studying law at Fort Hare, he fell in with Oliver Tambo, another leader-to-be of the liberation movement. The two were suspended for a student protest in 1940 and sent home on the verge of expulsion. Much later, Mr. Mandela called the episode — his refusal to yield on a minor point of principle — “foolhardy.”
在海尔堡大学学习法律期间，他结识了另一位未来解放运动领导人奥利弗·坦博(Oliver Tambo)。他们两人1940年因为一次学生抗议而被停学，之后被遣送回家，差点被开除。许多年后，曼德拉回忆起这件事来时说，出于一个次要原则而不愿屈服，其实是“愚蠢”的。
On returning to his home village, he learned that his family had chosen a bride for him. Finding the woman unappealing and the prospect of a career in tribal government even more so, he ran away to the black metropolis of Soweto, following other young blacks who had left mostly to work in the gold mines around Johannesburg.
回到村里后，曼德拉发现他的家人给他选了一个新娘。他对那位女子不感兴趣，对一生从事部落管理事务更加不感兴趣，于是他逃离家乡，去了黑人聚集的都市索维托(Soweto)。当时大批年轻黑人背井离乡，到约翰内斯堡(Johannesburg)附近的金矿工作。
There he was directed to Walter Sisulu, who ran a real estate business and was a spark plug in the African National Congress. Mr. Sisulu looked upon the tall young man with his aristocratic bearing and confident gaze and, he recalled in an interview, decided that his prayers had been answered.
在索维托，他被人介绍给了房地产商、在非国大中十分活跃的沃尔特·西苏鲁(Walter Sisulu)。西苏鲁在一次访谈中回忆道，他看到这个高个子、带着贵族气质、眼中透着自信的年轻人，立马感到他的祈愿灵验了。
Mr. Mandela soon impressed the activists with his ability to win over doubters. “His starting point is that ‘I am going to persuade this person no matter what,’ ” Mr. Sisulu said. “That is his gift. He will go to anybody, anywhere, with that confidence. Even when he does not have a strong case, he convinces himself that he has.”
很快，曼德拉以其能赢得怀疑者信任的能力，令其他活跃分子刮目相看。西苏鲁说，“他的起点总是，‘不管怎样，我都要说服这个人’。这是他的天赋。不管接触什么人，不管去哪里，他都带着这种自信。就连他没有充分的理由时，他也能让自己确信他有。”
Mr. Mandela, though he never completed his law degree, opened the first black law partnership in South Africa with Mr. Tambo. He took up amateur boxing, rising before dawn to run roadwork. Tall and slim, he was also somewhat vain. He wore impeccable suits, displaying an attention to fashion that would much later be evident in the elegantly bright loose shirts of African cloth that became his trademark.
虽然从未完成法律学位，但是曼德拉与坦博开设了南非第一家黑人律师事务所。他还学习业余拳击，天不亮就起来去跑长训练。又高又瘦的曼德拉还有点虚荣。他的着装完美无暇，他对时装的注意多年后将显现在成为他个人标志的优雅、鲜亮、宽松的非洲布衫上。
Impatient with the seeming impotence of their elders in the African National Congress, Mr. Mandela, Mr. Tambo, Mr. Sisulu and other militants organized the A.N.C. Youth League, issuing a manifesto so charged with Pan-African nationalism that some of their nonblack sympathizers were offended.
不耐烦非国大长者的看似无能，曼德拉、塔博、西苏鲁和其他不安分的激进者组织了非国大青年团。他们发表了一份宣言，其泛非洲民族主义之强烈，令他们的一些非黑人同情者感到不舒服。
Africanism versus nonracialism: that was the great divide in liberation thinking. The black consciousness movement, whose most famous martyr was Steve Biko, argued that before Africans could take their place in a multiracial state their confidence and sense of responsibility must be rebuilt.
非洲主义还是非种族主义：在当时的解放思考中，这是最大的分歧所在。黑人觉醒运动（其最著名的烈士是史蒂夫·比科[Steve Biko]）认为，在非洲人能够在一个多种族社会占一席地位之前，必须首先重建他们的信心与责任感。
Mr. Mandela, too, was attracted to this doctrine of self-sufficiency.
有一段时间，曼德拉也被这种自我满足说所吸引。
“I was angry at the white man, not at racism,” he wrote in his autobiography. “While I was not prepared to hurl the white man into the sea, I would have been perfectly happy if he climbed aboard his steamships and left the continent of his own volition.”
他在自传中写道，“我对白人、而不是对种族主义感到愤怒。我虽然不准备把白人都扔进大海里，但我会高兴地看到他登上自己的汽轮，自愿地离开非洲大陆。”
In his conviction that blacks should liberate themselves, he joined friends in breaking up Communist Party meetings because he regarded Communism as an alien, non-African ideology, and for a time he insisted that the A.N.C. keep a distance from Indian and mixed-race political movements.
由于坚信黑人应该自己解放自己，他加入朋友的行列，冲击了共产党的会议，因为他把共产主义视为舶来品，不是非洲的意识形态，还有一段时间，他坚持非国大与印度人以及混种人的政治运动保持距离。
“This was the trend of the youth at that time,” Mr. Sisulu said. But Mr. Mandela, he said, was never “an extreme nationalist,” or much of an ideologue of any stripe. He was a man of action.
“这是那时候年轻人中通行的做法”，西苏鲁多年后说。但他说，曼德拉从来不是“一个极端民族主义者”，也不是任何一种教条的空想家。他是个行动者。
He was also, already, a man of audacious self-confidence.
他也已经是一位大胆的自信者。
Joe Matthews, who worked for Mr. Mandela in the Youth League (and later became a moderate voice in the rival Inkatha movement), heard Mr. Mandela speak at a black-tie dinner in 1952 and predict, in what the audience took as impudence, that he would be the first president of free South Africa.
与曼德拉在非国大青年团一起工作过的乔·马修斯（Joe Matthews，他后成为对手因卡塔运动中一个温和的声音）1952年曾在一次正式晚宴上听过曼德拉讲话，马修斯预言，他将会成为自由南非的首任总统，这在当时的听众看来相当傲慢。
“He was not a theoretician, but he was a doer,” Mr. Matthews said in an interview for the television documentary program “Frontline.” “He was a man who did things, and he was always ready to volunteer to be the first to do any dangerous or difficult thing.”
“他不是个理论家，而是个行动者，”马修斯在接受电视记录片节目“前线”的采访时说。“他是个干事的人，他是个随时准备第一个志愿去做任何危险或困难之事的人。”
Five years after forming the Youth League, the young rebels engineered a generational takeover of the African National Congress.
成立青年团五年后，这些年轻一代的反叛者策划从老一代人手中取得了非国大领导权。
During his years as a young lawyer in Soweto, Mr. Mandela married a nurse, Evelyn Ntoko Mase, and they had four children, including a daughter who died at 9 months. But the demands of his politics kept him from his family. Compounding the strain was his wife’s joining the Jehovah’s Witnesses, a sect that abjures any participation in politics. The marriage grew cold and ended with abruptness.
在索维托担任年轻律师的年代，曼德拉与年轻的护士伊芙琳·恩托科·梅思(Evelyn Ntoko Mase)结了婚，他们一共生了四个孩子，其中一个女儿只活了九个月。然而，他的政治活动，使得他与家人聚少离多。还有一个因素加剧了他们的紧张关系，那是他的妻子加入了耶和华证人会(Jehovah’s Witnesses)。这个教派禁止会员以任何方式参与政治。他们的婚姻越来越冷淡，最后突然终结。
“He said, ‘Evelyn, I feel that I have no love for you anymore,’ ” his first wife said in an interview for a documentary film. “ ‘I’ll give you the children and the house.’ ”
“他说，‘伊芙琳，我感到我对你不再有爱了，’”他的第一任妻子多年后在一部记录片访谈中回忆说。“我把孩子和房子都给你。”
Not long afterward, a friend introduced him to Nomzamo Winifred Madikizela, a stunning and strong-willed medical social worker 16 years his junior. Mr. Mandela was smitten, declaring on their first date that he would marry her. He did so in 1958, while he and other activists were in the midst of a marathon trial on treason charges. His second marriage would be tumultuous, producing two daughters and a national drama of forced separation, devotion, remorse and acrimony.
之后不久，一位朋友介绍他认识了诺查莫·温妮芙里德·马迪基泽拉(Nomzamo Winifred Madikizela)，一个比他小16岁、风采出众、意志倔强的医疗社会工作者。曼德拉对她一见钟情，在他们首次约会时就宣布要娶她。1958年他娶了她，当时他和其他几位反种族隔离的活动分子正因叛国罪接受马拉松式的审判。他的第二次婚姻是一场动荡不宁的结合，他们生了两个女儿，也在全国的瞩目之下，上演了一场被迫分居、献身、悔恨、乃至敌对的戏剧。
A Shift to Militancy
转向激进
In 1961, with the patience of the liberation movement stretched to the snapping point by the police killing of 69 peaceful demonstrators in Sharpeville township the previous year, Mr. Mandela led the African National Congress onto a new road of armed insurrection.
1960年，警察在一个名叫夏普维尔(Sharpeville)的小镇枪杀了69名和平抗议者，将非暴力解放运动的耐心推至极限。一年后，曼德拉领导非国大走上了武装反叛的新道路。
It was an abrupt shift for a man who, not many weeks earlier, had proclaimed nonviolence an inviolable principle of the A.N.C. He later explained that forswearing violence “was not a moral principle but a strategy; there is no moral goodness in using an ineffective weapon.”
对曼德拉来说，这是个突然的转变，因为不久前他刚宣布，非暴力是非国大不可违背的一项原则。他后来解释说，我们不是出于道义原则、而是出于战略才发誓不以牙还牙；使用一个无效的武器没有任何道义原则可言。”
Taking as his text Che Guevara’s “Guerrilla Warfare,” Mr. Mandela became the first commander of a motley liberation army, grandly named Umkhonto we Sizwe, or Spear of the Nation.
以切·格瓦拉(Che Guevara)的《游击战》为课本，曼德拉成为解放军的首位司令。这支军队的人马杂七杂八，但却有一个显赫的名字：“民族之矛”(Umkhonto we Sizwe)。
Although he denied it throughout his life, there is persuasive evidence that about this time Mr. Mandela briefly joined the South African Communist Party, the A.N.C.’s partner in opening the armed resistance. Mr. Mandela presumably joined for the party’s connections to Communist countries that would finance the campaign of violence. Stephen Ellis, a British historian who in 2011 found reference to Mr. Mandela’s membership in secret party minutes, said Mr. Mandela “wasn’t a real convert; it was just an opportunist thing.”
尽管曼德拉一生都否认，但有令人信服的证据表明，大约是在这时，他短暂地加入过南非共产党，后者是非国大转向武装抵抗的伙伴。曼德拉加入共产党，据信是为了利用共产党与那些愿意为暴力抵抗提供资助的共产党国家的关系。英国历史学家史蒂芬·艾利斯(Stephen Ellis)2011年发现的一份共产党秘密会议记录中，提到了曼德拉的党员身份。他说，曼德拉“不是真正地改变了信仰；那只是一种投机行为”。
Mr. Mandela’s exploits in the “armed struggle” have been somewhat mythologized. During his months as a cloak-and-dagger outlaw, the press christened him “the Black Pimpernel.” But while he trained for guerrilla fighting and sought weapons for Spear of the Nation, he saw no combat. The A.N.C.’s armed activities were mostly confined to planting land mines, blowing up electrical stations and committing occasional acts of terrorism against civilians.
曼德拉的“武装斗争”尝试多少有点被神话了。在他作为从事惊险活动的不法之徒的那几个月里，媒体称他为“黑花侠”(The Black Pimpernel)。然而，尽管他接受了游击战训练，并竭力为民族之矛寻找武器来源，他却从来没有参加过任何真正的战斗。非国大的武装活动基本上仅限于埋地雷，炸电站，还偶尔有过针对平民的恐怖主义活动。
After the first free elections in South Africa, Spear of the Nation’s reputation was stained by admissions of human rights abuses in its training camps, though no evidence emerged that Mr. Mandela was complicit in them.
在南非举行了首次自由选举后，民族之矛承认在自己的训练营地发生过践踏人权的事件，其声望因此受到损害。不过并没有证据显示曼德拉个人被牵连到这些事情中。
During Trial, a Legend Grows
审判期间，传奇成形
South Africa’s rulers were determined to put Mr. Mandela and his comrades out of action. In 1956, he and scores of other dissidents were arrested on charges of treason. The state botched the prosecution, and after the acquittal Mr. Mandela went underground. Upon his capture he was charged with inciting a strike and leaving the country without a passport. His legend grew when, on the first day of that trial, he entered the courtroom wearing a traditional Xhosa leopard-skin cape to underscore that he was an African entering a white man’s jurisdiction.
南非统治者决意要让曼德拉及其同志们失去战斗力。1956年，当局以叛国罪指控逮捕了他和另外几十名异见者。但是由于检方的失误，曼德拉被判无罪。之后他转入地下。政府再次抓获了他，指控他煽动罢工以及没有护照而试图出国。庭审的第一天，他穿着科萨人传统的豹皮斗篷进入法庭，意在显示他是一个踏入白人辖区的非洲人。曼德拉的传奇从此得以一步成形。
That trial resulted in a three-year sentence, but it was just a warm-up for the main event. Next Mr. Mandela and eight other A.N.C. leaders were charged with sabotage and conspiracy to overthrow the state — capital crimes. It was called the Rivonia trial, for the name of the farm where the defendants had conspired and where a trove of incriminating documents was found — many in Mr. Mandela’s handwriting — outlining and justifying a violent campaign to bring down the regime.
那次审判的结果是，他获刑三年，但这只是主要事件的前奏。接下来，曼德拉和另外八名非国大领导人被指控破坏并策划推翻国家，两项指控均为死罪。这次审判被称为瑞佛尼亚审判(Rivonia Trial)，瑞佛尼亚是被告人策划行动的农庄名字，当局在那里找到了大量罪证文件，其中许多为曼德拉手书，概述暴力推翻种族隔离政权的理由与行动方案。
At Mr. Mandela’s suggestion, the defendants, certain of conviction, set out to turn the trial into a moral drama that would vindicate them in the court of world opinion. They admitted that they had organized a liberation army and had engaged in sabotage and tried to lay out a political justification for these acts. Among themselves, they agreed that even if sentenced to hang, they would refuse on principle to appeal.
被告人明确知道他们将被定罪，在曼德拉的建议下，他们把庭审变成了一场道义戏剧，在世界舆论法庭上为自己辩白。他们承认组织了一支解放军，从事了破坏活动，他们试图为这些行动提供政治依据。在他们之间他们达成一致，即使被判绞刑，出于原则，他们将拒绝上诉。
The four-hour speech with which Mr. Mandela opened the defense case was one of the most eloquent of his life, and — in the view of his authorized biographer, Anthony Sampson — it established him as the leader not only of the A.N.C. but also of the international movement against apartheid.
曼德拉在法庭上发表了四个小时的开庭辩护演说。这是他毕生最慷慨陈词的演说之一，他的授权传记作者安东尼·桑普森(Anthony Sampson)认为，这个演说不仅确立了他作为非国大领袖的地位，而且奠定了他作为国际反种族隔离运动领导人的地位。
Mr. Mandela described his personal evolution from the temptations of black nationalism to the politics of multiracialism. He acknowledged that he was the commander of Spear of the Nation, but asserted that he had turned to violence only after nonviolent resistance had been foreclosed. He conceded that he had made alliances with Communists — a powerful current in the prosecution case in those cold war days — but likened this to Churchill’s cooperation with Stalin against Hitler.
曼德拉描述了他从被黑人民族主义所诱惑、到热心多种族政治的个人演化过程。他承认自己是民族之矛的指挥官，但他坚称，只是在非暴力抵抗无效的情况下才转向暴力的。他承认与共产党人结盟——在那个谈虎色变的冷战时代，这是起诉方最有力的一个指控——但他将其比作丘吉尔与斯大林建立的反对希特勒的合作。
He finished with a coda of his convictions that would endure as an oratorical highlight of South African history.
在结束语中，他陈述了自己的信念，他的这段话作为一段最精彩的雄辩留在南非的历史上。
“I have fought against white domination, and I have fought against black domination,” he told the court. “I have cherished the ideal of a democratic and free society in which all persons will live together in harmony and with equal opportunities. It is an ideal for which I hope to live for and to see realized. But my lord, if it needs be, it is an ideal for which I am prepared to die.”
他在法庭上说，“我为反对白人统治而斗争，也为反对黑人统治而斗争。我怀有一个建立民主和自由社会的美好理想，在这个社会里，人人和睦相处，机会均等。我希望为这一理想而生存，并去实现它。但是我的上天，如果需要，我也准备为这个理想献出生命。”
Under considerable pressure from liberals at home and abroad (including a nearly unanimous vote of the United Nations General Assembly) to spare the defendants, the judge acquitted one and sentenced Mr. Mandela and the others to life in prison.
国内外自由人士（联合国大会几乎全体一致投票）强烈要求免被告人死刑，在这种巨大压力下，法官宣布一人无罪，判处其他人无期徒刑。
An Education in Prison
监狱里的教育
Mr. Mandela was 44 when he was manacled and put on a ferry to the Robben Island prison. He would be 71 when he was released.
曼德拉镣铐加身，被押上一艘通往罗宾岛(Robben Island)监狱的渡轮时，他44岁，他获得释放时，将已是71岁的老人。
Robben Island, in shark-infested waters about seven miles off Cape Town, had over the centuries been a naval garrison, a mental hospital and a leper colony, but it was most famously a prison. For Mr. Mandela and his co-defendants, it began with a nauseating ferry ride, during which guards amused themselves by urinating down the air vents on the prisoners below.
罗宾岛位于开普敦外海七英里，周围水域有很多鲨鱼，在数百年的历史中，那里曾是海军基地、精神病医院以及麻风病隔离区，但最出名的是监狱。对曼德拉和其他犯人来说，监狱之旅开始于令人作呕的渡轮上，看守们对着通风口往甲板下关犯人的船仓撒尿，以此寻开心。
The routine on Robben Island was one of isolation, boredom and petty humiliations, met with frequent shows of resistance. By day the men were marched to a limestone quarry, where the fine dust stirred up by their labors glued their tear ducts shut.
罗宾岛上的日常生活包括关禁闭、厌倦无聊，以及对犯人的卑劣侮辱，也包括常常发生的抵抗。白天，犯人们被带到一个石灰石采石场劳动，采石尘粉堵塞了他们的泪腺。
But in some ways prison was less arduous than life outside in those unsettled times. For Mr. Mandela and others, Robben Island was a university. In whispered conversations as they hacked at the limestone, and in tightly written polemics handed from cellblock to cellblock, the prisoners debated everything from Marxism to circumcision.
但是在那个动荡的时代，监狱生活在某些方面反而不如外面的生活那样艰难。对曼德拉以及许多黑人解放运动的领导人来说，罗宾岛是一座大学。他们在采石场的砸石声中悄声对话，在牢房之间传递密密麻麻地写在纸条上的辩论，这些犯人们讨论的话题无所不及，从马克思主义到割包皮。
Mr. Mandela learned Afrikaans, the language of the dominant whites, and urged other prisoners to do the same.
曼德拉学会了白人统治者使用的南非荷兰语(Afrikaans)，还督促其他狱友也来学。
He honed his skills as a leader, negotiator and proselytizer, and not only the factions among the prisoners but also some of the white administrators found his charm and iron will irresistible. He credited his prison experience with teaching him the tactics and strategy that would make him president.
他磨练了自己作为领导者、谈判者和劝导者的技能。不仅在犯人不同的派系当中，而且在一些白人狱官眼里，他的魅力和他铁一般的意志都不可抗拒。他说监狱经历教会了他当总统所需要的战术和战略。
Almost from his arrival he assumed a kind of command. The first time his lawyer, George Bizos, visited him, Mr. Mandela greeted him and then introduced his eight guards by name — to their amazement — as “my guard of honor.” The prison authorities began treating him as a prison elder statesman.
几乎从刚到监狱的那一刻起，他就成了某种带头人。他的律师乔治·比佐斯(George Bizos)第一次去探监时，曼德拉跟他打完招呼后，出乎看守们的意料，他接着向比佐斯介绍了八名看守的名字，称他们是他的“仪仗队”。没过多久，监狱当局就开始把他当作监狱元老来对待。
During his time on the island, a new generation of political inmates arose, defiant veterans of a national student uprising who at first resisted the authority of the elders but gradually came under their tutelage. Years later Mr. Mandela recalled the young hotheads with a measure of exasperation:
他在罗宾岛坐牢期间，新一代的政治犯也被关到了那里，他们曾是全国学生起义中不屈服的抗争者。他们一开始时不服前辈政治犯的权威，但逐渐接受了前辈们的指导。曼德拉许多年后回忆起那些冲动的年轻人时还带着几分恼火：
“When you say, ‘What are you going to do?’ they say, ‘We will attack and destroy them!’ I say: ‘All right, have you analyzed how strong they are, the enemy? Have you compared their strength to your strength?’ They say, ‘No, we will just attack!’ ”
“你问他们，‘你们要干什么？’他们说，‘我们要攻击和摧毁他们！’我说，‘好吧，你考虑了与他们、你的敌人的力量对比吗？’他们说，‘没有！我们攻击就是了！’”
Perhaps because Mr. Mandela was so revered, he was singled out for gratuitous cruelties by the authorities. On Robben Island the wardens left newspaper clippings in his cell telling how his wife had been cited as the other woman in a divorce case, and about the persecution she and her children endured after being exiled to a bleak town 250 miles from Johannesburg.
也许因为曼德拉深受崇敬的原因，当局无缘无故地专门折磨他。狱守把新闻剪报塞进他的牢房，让他知道她妻子如何是一桩离婚案中所提及的第三者，以及他的妻子和孩子被内部流放到离约翰内斯堡250英里一个荒凉的黑人小城后，如何遭受苦难。
He was denied permission to attend the funerals of his mother and of his oldest son, who died in a car accident while Mr. Mandela was on Robben Island.
当局不许他出席他母亲和他长子的葬礼。后者在曼德拉坐牢期间死于车祸。
Friends say his experiences steeled his self-control and made him, more than ever, a man who buried his emotions deep, who spoke in the collective “we” of liberation rhetoric.
朋友们说，他的经历锤炼了他的自我控制，让他越发把感情埋得更深，说话时总是使用解放运动习惯的代词“我们”。
Still, Mr. Mandela said he regarded his prison experience as a major factor in his nonracial outlook. He said prison tempered any desire for vengeance by exposing him to sympathetic white guards who smuggled in newspapers and extra rations, and to moderates within the National Party government who approached him in hopes of opening a dialogue. Above all, prison taught him to be a master negotiator.
尽管如此，曼德拉说，他认为在自己的非种族视野的形成过程中，监狱经历是一个主要因素。他说，监狱让他接触到有同情心的白人看守，他们为他偷偷带来报纸和额外的给养；也让他接触到南非国民政府内的温和人士，他们主动来找曼德拉希望展开对话；这些都弱化了他任何报仇的愿望。最重要的是，监狱把他培养成了一位谈判大师。
The Negotiations Begin
谈判开始
Mr. Mandela’s decision to begin negotiations with the white government was one of the most momentous of his life, and he made it like an autocrat, without consulting his comrades, knowing full well that they would resist.
与白人政府开始谈判的决定是曼德拉一生中最重大的事件之一，他没有与他的同志们商量就一人作了主，因为他知道会遭到他们的反对。
“My comrades did not have the advantages that I had of brushing shoulders with the V.I.P.’s who came here, the judges, the minister of justice, the commissioner of prisons, and I had come to overcome my own prejudice towards them,” he recalled. “So I decided to present my colleagues with a fait accompli.”
他回忆说，“我的同志们没有象我那样与到这里来的政府要人、法官、司法部长、监狱总监接触过，我也是经过了一个过程才克服了对他们的偏见。所以我决定生米做成熟饭后再告诉我的同志们。”
With an overture to Kobie Coetsee, the justice minister, and a visit to President P. W. Botha, Mr. Mandela, in 1986, began what would be years of negotiations on the future of South Africa. The encounters, remarkably, were characterized by little rancor and mutual shows of respect. When he occupied the president’s office, Mr. Mandela would delightedly show visitors where President Botha had poured him tea.
曼德拉先是向司法部长科比·库切(Kobie Coetsee)示好，又拜会了波塔(P.W. Botha)总统，之后，他于1986年开始了持续多年的关于南非未来的谈判。令人称奇的是，他们在接触中极少有怨恨，而是相互表示尊重。后来，当曼德拉成为总统后，他总是很高兴地向来访者显示波塔总统亲自给他倒茶的地方。
Mr. Mandela demanded as a show of good will that Walter Sisulu and other defendants in the Rivonia trial be released. President F. W. de Klerk, Mr. Botha’s successor, complied.
曼德拉要求政府释放沃尔特·西苏鲁以及其他瑞佛尼亚审判的被告人，作为政府良好意愿的展示。波塔的继任德克勒克总统照办了。
In the last months of his imprisonment, as the negotiations gathered force, he was relocated to Victor Verster Prison outside Cape Town, where the government could meet with him conveniently and monitor his health. (In prison he had had prostate surgery and lung problems, and the government was terrified of the uproar if he died in captivity.) He lived in a warden’s bungalow. He had access to a swimming pool, a garden, a chef and a VCR. A suit was tailored for his meetings with government luminaries.
在他被囚的最后几个月，随着谈判越来越有起色，他被转到了开普敦外的维克托韦斯特监狱(Victor Verster Prison)，在那里，政府可以更方便地与他见面，并监视他的健康状况。（他在狱中做过前列腺手术，得过肺病，政府非常害怕如果他在囚禁期间逝世会带来的巨大反响。）他住在狱长的小楼里，那里有游泳池、花园、厨师和一台录像机。政府还专门为他定做了一套西服，好与政要们见面。
(After his release he built a vacation home near his ancestral village, a brick replica of the warden’s house. This was pure pragmatism, he explained: he was accustomed to the floor plan and could find the bathroom at night without stumbling in the dark.)
（获释后，他照着狱长房子的样子，在他的祖籍村庄附近修了一座度假砖屋。他解释说，这完全是出于实用的考虑：他习惯了那座房子的房间布局，晚上可以摸黑找到洗手间而不被绊倒。）
From the moment they learned of the talks, Mr. Mandela’s allies in the A.N.C. were suspicious, and their worries were not allayed when the government allowed them to confer with Mr. Mandela at his quarters in the warden’s house.
曼德拉在非国大的盟友一得知这些谈判，他们马上的反应就是觉得可疑，他们的担心并未因政府允许他们在狱长的房子里与曼德拉见面而得到缓解。
Tokyo Sexwale, who had come to Robben Island as a student rebel, recalled in a “Frontline” interview encountering Mr. Mandela in this comfortable house. Mr. Mandela walked them through the house, showing off the television and the microwave. “And,” Mr. Sexwale said, “I thought, ‘I think you are sold out.’ ”
曾经同被关在罗宾岛监狱的学生反叛者托基奥·塞克斯韦尔(Tokyo Sexwale)后来在“前线”节目的访谈中回忆了与曼德拉在那座舒适的房子里见面的情形。曼德拉带他们参观了房子，指给他们看电视机和微波炉。塞克斯韦尔说，“当时我想，‘我觉得你出卖了自己。’”
Mr. Mandela seated his visitors at a table and patiently explained his view that the enemy was morally and politically defeated, with nothing left but the army, the country ungovernable. His strategy, he said, was to give the white rulers every chance to retreat in an orderly way. He was preparing to meet Mr. de Klerk, who had just taken over from Mr. Botha.
曼德拉请他的来客们在桌子边坐下，耐心地解释了他的看法。他认为，敌人已经在道义上和政治上被击败了，他们除了军队一无所有，无法治理南非。他说，他的战略是给白人统治者提供一切可能的机会，让他们有序地退出。他在准备与刚刚接替波塔的德克勒克总统见面。
Free in a Changed World
获释回到一个变了的世界
In February 1990, Mr. Mandela walked out of prison alongside his wife into a world that he knew little, and that knew him less. The African National Congress was now torn by factions — the prison veterans, those who had spent the years of struggle working legally in labor unions, and the exiles who had spent them in foreign capitals. The white government was also split, with some committed to negotiating an honest new order while others fomented factional violence in hopes of disabling the black political leadership.
1990年2月，曼德拉在妻子的陪同下走出监狱，回到了已变得陌生的世界，而这个世界对他则了解得更少。非国大内部产生了分裂，出现了几个派系：前政治犯，那些为劳工工会的合法工作度过多年抗争的人，以及那些在外国首都生活多年的流亡者。白人政府也分裂了，一些人致力于谈判产生一个真实的新秩序，另一些人则挑拨派系暴力，希望借此瘫痪黑人政治领导层。
Over the next four years Mr. Mandela would be embroiled in a laborious negotiation, not only with the white government, but also with his own fractious alliance.
接下来的四年里，曼德拉从事了艰苦的谈判，不仅与白人政府谈判，而且还要与自己的那些相互不和的盟友们谈判。
But first he took time for a victory lap around the world, including an eight-city tour of the United States that began with a motorcade through delirious crowds in New York City.
不过他首先在世界各地巡回访问了一圈，包括对美国八个城市的访问，访问从纽约开始，他乘坐的车队驶过时，受到狂热人群的欢迎。
The anti-apartheid movement had had a rocky relationship with United States governments, which saw South Africa through the lens of the cold war rivalry with Communists and also regarded the country as an important source of uranium. Until the late 1980s the Central Intelligence Agency portrayed the A.N.C. as Communist-dominated. There have been allegations, neither substantiated nor dispelled, that a C.I.A. agent had tipped the police officers who arrested Mr. Mandela.
反种族隔离运动与美国政府有着复杂的关系。美国透过与共产党冷战的视角看待南非，同时将该国视为一个重要的铀来源地。直到1980年代末，美国中央情报局在其分析中仍将非国大视为共产党支配下的组织。有未经证实、但也未经排除的指控说，中央情报局特工为逮捕曼德拉的警察提供了线索。
Congress, following popular sentiment, enacted economic sanctions against investment in South Africa in 1986, overriding the veto of President Ronald Reagan. Even at the time of his euphoric public welcome in the United States, Mr. Mandela was regarded with some official misgivings, because of both his devotion to economic sanctions and his loyalties to various self-styled liberation figures like Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi and Yasir Arafat.
国会1986年顺应民意，通过了限制在南非投资的经济制裁法，并推翻罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)总统对该法的否决。即使在美国民众热烈欢迎曼德拉的同时，有些官员仍对他怀有疑虑，一来因为他对经济制裁的坚持，再来因为他对各色解放人物如穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Muammar el-Qaddafi)上校以及亚西尔·阿拉法特(Yasser Arafat)的推崇。
While Mr. Mandela had languished in prison, a campaign of civil disobedience was under way. No one participated more enthusiastically than Winnie Mandela.
曼德拉在监狱受折磨期间，南非兴起了旨在使国家无法治理的公民不服从运动，它最积极的参与者不是别人，正是温妮·曼德拉。
A Troubled Marriage
磕磕畔畔的婚姻
By the time of her husband’s imprisonment, the Mandelas had produced two daughters but had little time to enjoy a domestic life. For most of their marriage they saw each other through the thick glass partition of the prison visiting room: for 21 years of his captivity, they never touched.
丈夫被关进监狱时，曼德拉夫妇已经有了两个女儿，但很少有时间享受家庭生活。在他们婚姻的大部分时间，他们都是通过监狱探视间厚厚的玻璃隔墙见面。在他被关押的21年期间，他们从未触摸过对方。
She was, however, a megaphone to the outside world, a source of information on friends and comrades and an interpreter of his views through the journalists who came to visit her. She was tormented by the police, jailed and banished with her children to a remote Afrikaner town, Brandfort, where she challenged her captors at every turn.
然而，她是曼德拉对世界说话的一个喇叭，是他了解朋友和同志的信息的来源。她通过走访她的记者诠释他的观点。她受到了警察的折磨和关押，她和两个孩子被流放到一个荒凉偏僻的黑人小镇布兰特福德(Brantford)。在那里，她不放过任何一个挑战施害者的机会。
By the time she was released into the tumult of Soweto in 1984, she had became a firebrand. She now dressed in military khakis and boots and spoke in a violent rhetoric, notoriously endorsing the practice of “necklacing” foes, incinerating them in a straitjacket of gasoline-soaked tires. She surrounded herself with young thugs who terrorized, kidnapped and killed blacks she deemed hostile to the cause.
1984年她被释放到风起云涌的索维托时，已经成为一个煽情的鼓动者。此时的她身穿咔叽布军装和高靴，言辞激烈，她因支持对敌人使用“火项链”(necklacing)酷刑而声名狼藉，“火项链”指的是把汽油浸泡的轮胎套在人身上，然后将其点燃。她身边围绕着一群年轻歹徒，他们恐吓、绑架和杀害那些她认为对事业持敌对态度的黑人。
Friends said Mr. Mandela’s choice of his cause over his family often filled him with remorse — so much so that long after Winnie Mandela was widely known to have conducted a reign of terror, long after she was implicated in the kidnapping and murder of young township activists, long after the marriage was effectively dead, Mr. Mandela refused to utter a word of criticism.
朋友们说，把事业置于家庭之上的选择，常常令曼德拉充满自责，正因为如此，在人们早就广泛知道温妮·曼德拉进行恐怖统治，并涉嫌参与绑架和杀害小镇年轻活动人士后，而且在他们的婚姻早就名存实亡后，曼德拉仍然拒绝对她作任何批评。
As president, he bowed to her popularity by appointing her deputy minister of arts, a position in which she became entangled in financial scandals and increasingly challenged the government for appeasing whites. In 1995 Mr. Mandela finally filed for divorce, which was granted the next year after an emotionally wrenching public hearing.
作为总统，他顺从温妮·曼德拉在大众中享有的知名度，任命她担任科技文化部副部长。她在那个职位上陷入多起财政丑闻，并且越来越多地挑战政府，经常指责其姑息白人。1995年，曼德拉终于到法院申请离婚，在经历了一场揪心的公开听证后，于次年获准离婚。
Mr. Mandela later fell publicly in love with Graça Machel, the widow of the former president of Mozambique and an activist in her own right for humanitarian causes. They married on Mr. Mandela’s 80th birthday. She survives him, as do his two daughters by Winnie Mandela, Zenani and Zindziswa; a daughter, Makaziwe, by his first wife; 17 grandchildren; and 14 great-grandchildren.
之后，曼德拉与莫桑比克(Mozambique)前总统的遗孀、人道主义活动人士格拉萨·马谢尔(Graça Machel)在公众瞩目下恋爱。他们在曼德拉80岁生日时结婚。他身后的家人除格拉萨外，还有温妮·曼德拉的两个女儿岑娜妮(Zenani)和珍德兹斯瓦(Zindziswa)，第一个妻子生的女儿玛卡兹维(Makaziwe)，17个孙子辈后代和14个曾孙辈后代。 
A Deal for Majority Rule
多数人执政的政治交易
Two years after Mr. Mandela’s release from prison, black and white leaders met in a convention center on the outskirts of Johannesburg for negotiations that would lead, fitfully, to an end of white rule. While outside in the country extremists black and white used violence to tilt the outcome their way, Mr. Mandela and the white president, Mr. de Klerk, argued and maneuvered toward a peaceful transfer of power.
曼德拉获释两年后，黑人领导者与白人领导者在约翰内斯堡郊外的一个会议中心举行谈判。这些谈判导致了白人统治的结束，虽然过程并非完全顺利。谈判场外，南非的黑人极端分子和白人极端分子都使用了暴力，试图让谈判结果对自己一方更有利。曼德拉和白人总统德克勒克通过争论和策略，完成了一场和平的权力过渡。
Mr. Mandela understood the mutual need in his relationship with Mr. de Klerk, a proud, dour, chain-smoking pragmatist, but he never much liked or fully trusted him. Two years into the negotiations, the men were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, and their appearance together in Oslo in 1993 was marked by bouts of pique and recriminations. In a conversation a year after becoming president, with Mr. de Klerk as deputy president, Mr. Mandela said he still suspected Mr. de Klerk of complicity in the murders of countless blacks by police and army units, a rogue “third force” opposed to black rule.
德克勒克是一个高傲、不随和、烟不离手的实用主义者，曼德拉从来没能喜欢他，也不完全信任他，但在与德克勒克的关系中，他明白双方的共同需要。谈判进行了两年后，两人分享了诺贝尔和平奖，1993年他们在奥斯陆共同出席领奖仪式，也未免被愤怒和揭短行为所玷污。曼德拉成为总统、德克勒克成为副总统一年后，曼德拉在一次谈话中说，他仍然怀疑德克勒克与谋杀了无数黑人的警察和军队，也就是所谓的“第三势力”有串通，该流氓势力反对黑人统治。
Eventually, though, Mr. Mandela and his negotiating team, led by the former labor leader Cyril Ramaphosa, found their way to the grand bargain that assured free elections in exchange for promising opposition parties a share of power and a guarantee that whites would not be subjected to reprisals.
最终，曼德拉和由前劳工领导人、深谙政治的西里尔·拉马弗萨(Cyril Ramaphosa)领导的谈判组与政府达成了一项重大的政治交易，保证了自由选举，同时交换条件，承诺了让反对党派分享一部分权力、并保证不会对白人进行报复。
At times, the ensuing election campaign seemed in danger of collapsing into chaos. Strife between rival Zulu factions cost hundreds of lives, and white extremists set off bombs at campaign rallies and assassinated the second most popular black figure, Chris Hani.
接下来的总统竞选活动有时似乎有滑向全国大乱的危险。祖鲁人的派系之争导致数百人死亡，白人极端分子在竞选集会上引爆炸弹，并暗杀了受欢迎程度仅次于曼德拉的黑人领袖克里斯·哈尼(Chris Hani)。
But the fear was more than offset by the excitement in black townships. Mr. Mandela, wearing a hearing aid and orthopedic socks, soldiered on through 12-hour campaign days, igniting euphoric crowds packed into dusty soccer stadiums and perched on building tops to sing liberation songs and cheer.
但是，黑人城镇到处洋溢着的激动足以抵消恐惧。戴着助听器、穿着矫形袜的曼德拉竞选期间每天奔走12个小时，鼓舞着那些挤满了尘土飞扬的足球场的人群，令那些聚在楼顶上高唱解放歌曲的支持者欢呼雀。
During elections in April 1994, voters lined up in some places for miles. The African National Congress won 62 percent of the vote, earning 252 of the 400 seats in Parliament’s National Assembly and ensuring that Mr. Mandela, as party leader, would be named president when Parliament convened.
1994年4月选举期间，在有些地方，选民为投票排队长达数英里。非国大赢得了62%的选票，赢得了议会全国大会400个席位中的252席，确保了作为党领导人的曼德拉在议会召开时被命名为总统。
Mr. Mandela was sworn in as president on May 10, and he accepted office with a speech of shared patriotism, summoning South Africans’ communal exhilaration in their land and their common relief at being freed from the world’s disapproval.
曼德拉当年5月10日宣誓成为总统，他在就职演说中讲到共同的爱国主义，呼唤南非人在自己的土地上同喜共庆，并为南非成为一个不再受国际社会谴责的国家而一起感到欣慰。
“Never, never and never again shall it be that this beautiful land will again experience the oppression of one by another and suffer the indignity of being the skunk of the world,” he declared.
他宣布，“这片美丽的土地永远、永远、永远再不会经历人对人的压迫，以及遭全球唾弃的屈辱。”
Then nine Mirage fighter jets of the South African Air Force, originally purchased to help keep someone like Mr. Mandela from taking power, roared overhead, and 50,000 roared back from the lawn spread below the government buildings in Pretoria, “Viva the South African Air Force, viva!”
之后，南非空军九架幻影战斗机拖着五彩喷气从空中飞过，在比勒陀利亚政府楼前的草坪上出席就职仪式的五万人群欢声雷动。“南非空军万岁！万岁！”（这些飞机原是买来防止象曼德拉这样的人取得政权的。）
Limitations as a President
作为总统的限制
As president, Mr. Mandela set a style that was informal and multiracial. He lived much of the time in a modest house in Johannesburg, where he made his own bed. He enjoyed inviting visiting foreign dignitaries to shake hands with the woman who served them tea.
作为总统，曼德拉立下了不拘一格、多种族和睦的风格。他大部分时候住在约翰内斯堡一座简朴的房子里，他每天自己整理床铺。来访的外国政要在他家做客时，他喜欢请他们与服侍茶水的女侍握手。
But he was also casual, even careless, in his relationships with rich capitalists, the mining tycoons, retailers and developers whose continued investment he saw as vital to South Africa’s economy. Before the election, he went to 20 industrialists and asked each for at least one million rand ($275,000 at the exchange rate of that time) to build up his party and finance the campaign. In office, he was unabashed about taking their phone calls — and bristled when unions organized a strike against some of his big donors. He enjoyed socializing with the very rich and the show-business celebrities who flocked to pay homage.
然而，他与富有的资本家、矿业大亨、零售商、发展商的关系也很随便，甚至粗心大意，他觉得这些人的继续投资对南非经济来说至关重要。选举前，他去找了20位企业家，请求他们每个人至少捐一百万南非兰特（按当时的汇率相当于$275,000美元），用于发展他的党，并作为竞选活动经费。任职期间，他一点都不避讳接他们的电话，后来当一些工会罢工反对他的一些大捐助者时，他很不高兴。他喜欢与极为有钱的人交往，喜欢与那些现在围在他身边向他致意的演艺界名人打交道。
At the same time, he was insistent that the black majority should not expect instant material gratification. He told union leaders at one point to “tighten your belts” and accept low wages so that investment would flow. “We must move from the position of a resistance movement to one of builders,” he said in an interview the next day, musing on the impatience of his allies.
与此同时，他坚持认为，黑人多数派不应该指望马上得到物质上的满足。他曾在某个场合告诉工会领导人要“勒紧裤带”，接受低薪，以便吸引投资。第二天接受采访时，他对自己无耐心盟友们表示惊讶，他说，“我们必须从抵抗运动状态过渡到建设状态。”
Mr. Mandela exhibited a genius for the grand gesture of reconciliation. Some attempts, like a tea he organized of prominent A.N.C. women and the wives of apartheid-era white officials, were awkward.
曼德拉展示了他大姿态和解的天才。不过，他的有些尝试，比如组织非国大知名女士与种族隔离时期白人官员的妻子们举行茶叙，则相当尴尬。
Others were triumphant. Few in South Africa, whatever their race, were unmoved in June 1995 when the South African rugby team, long a symbol of white arrogance, defeated New Zealand in a World Cup final, a moment dramatized in the 2009 film “Invictus.” Mr. Mandela strode onto the field wearing the team’s green jersey, and 80,000 fans, mostly Afrikaners, erupted in a chant of “Nel-son! Nel-son!”
其它的尝试则非常成功。在南非，不管是那个种族，很少有人不记得1995年6月南非英式橄榄球队在世界杯决赛中击败新西兰夺冠的情景。2009年拍的电影《永不言败》(Invictus)以戏剧形式记录了那个时刻。英式橄榄球长期以来一直是白人至上的一个象征，比赛结束后，曼德拉穿着球队的绿色球衣走进球场，八万名球迷，绝大多数为南非白人，爆发出“纳尔-逊！纳尔-逊！”的呼声。
Mr. Mandela’s instinct for compromise in the interest of unity was evident in the 1995 creation of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, devised to balance justice and forgiveness in a reckoning of the country’s history. The panel offered individual amnesties for anyone who testified fully on the crimes committed during the apartheid period.
曼德拉为了团结而进行妥协的直觉再清楚不过地显现在1995年建立真相与和解委员会上。这个委员会的目的是在清算南非历史的过程中平衡正义与宽恕。委员会给任何对在种族隔离期间的罪行全盘作证的人提供个人赦免。
In the end, the process fell short of both truth (both white officials and A.N.C. leaders were evasive) and reconciliation (many blacks found that information only fed their anger). But it was generally counted a success, giving South Africans who had lost loved ones to secret graves a chance to reclaim their grief, while avoiding the spectacle of endless trials.
到头来，这个过程既没能获得完全的真相（白人官员和非国大领导人都闪烁其词），也没能达成彻底和解（许多黑人了解到更多情况后，越发愤怒了）。但总的来说还算成功，它给了那些亲人被埋于秘密坟墓的南非人一个明诉哀痛的机会，同时避免了无穷无尽审判的上演。
There was a limit, though, to how much Mr. Mandela — by exhortation, by symbolism, by regal appeals to the better natures of his constituents — could paper over the gulf between white privilege and black privation.
然而，不管曼德拉如何靠鼓动、象征主义，以及君王般的魅力来激发自己的选民们高尚善良的一面，他也难以弥合白人特权与黑人贫困之间的鸿沟。
After Mr. Mandela delivered one miracle in the shape of South Africa’s freedom, it was perhaps too much to expect that he could deliver another in the form of broad prosperity. In his term, he made only modest progress in fulfilling the modest goals he had set for housing, education and jobs.
曼德拉打造了让南非人获得自由这一奇迹，也许再期望他创造出广泛繁荣的奇迹，恐怕过求了。他任期期间制定的住房、教育与就业等目标本来就不高，但他只取得了不大的进展。
He tried with limited success to transform the police from an instrument of white supremacy to an effective crime-fighting force. Corruption and cronyism (which predated majority rule) blossomed. Foreign investment, despite the universal high esteem for Mr. Mandela, kept its distance.
他尝试将警察从白人至上的统治工具转变为一支有效的打击犯罪的队伍，但只取得了有限的成功。（多数统治前就已存在的）腐败与任人唯亲更加猖獗。尽管曼德拉受到全世界的景仰，外国投资却对南非保持了距离，尤其是20世纪90年代末的全球经济过热让新兴市场看起来比以前想象的更为危险之后。
Racial divisions, kept in check by the euphoria of the peaceful transition and by Mr. Mandela’s moral authority, re-emerged somewhat as the ultimate problem of closing the income gap remained unresolved.
种族隔阂被和平过渡的欣喜与曼德拉的道义权威一时控制住了，但后来随着缩小收入差距的最终问题未能得到解决，在一定程度上重新表现出来。
The South African journalist Mark Gevisser, in his 2007 biography of Mr. Mandela’s successor as president, Thabo Mbeki, wrote: “The overriding legacy of the Mandela presidency — of the years 1994 to 1999 — is a country where the rule of law was entrenched in an unassailable Bill of Rights, and where the predictions of racial and ethnic conflict did not come true. These feats, alone, guarantee Mandela his sanctity. But he was a far better liberator and nation-builder than he was a governor.”
南非记者马克·葛维瑟(Mark Gevisser)在2007年发表的曼德拉继任者塔博·姆贝基总统的传记中写道，“曼德拉1994年至1999年总统任期内留给后人的最重要的政治遗产，是建立了一个由神圣不可侵犯的权利法案保护的法治国家，而且人们早先预言的、南非的种族与民族暴力冲突没有发生。仅这些成就本身就保证了曼德拉的神圣地位。然而，他更多地是一个解放者和国家缔造者，而不是一个管理者。”
In addition, Mr. Mandela bequeathed his country a virtual one-party system with a circle-the-wagons attitude toward allegations of corruption, a distaste for criticism in the news media and a tendency to treat rival parties as verging on treasonous. Neither liberal nor conservative opposition parties managed to organize themselves into a credible alternative to the A.N.C.
此外，曼德拉还给他的国家留下一个基本上是一党执政的体系，执政者对官员腐败的指控抱着官官相护的态度，不喜欢媒体的批评，把反对党派差不多当叛国者对待。不管是自由派的还是保守派的对手，都没有能够成功地组织起能有效抗衡非国大的反对派。
Mr. Mandela himself deferred to his party, notably in the choice of a successor. After the party favorite, Mr. Mbeki, had succeeded to the presidency, Mr. Mandela let it be known that he had actually preferred the younger Mr. Ramaphosa, the former mine workers’ union leader who had negotiated the new Constitution. Mr. Mbeki knew and resented that he was not the favorite, and for much of his presidency he snubbed Mr. Mandela.
曼德拉本人总是遵从党的意愿，比如在继任总统人选上。在党的得意人选姆贝基继任总统后，曼德拉透露说他其实更喜欢比较年轻的拉马弗萨，即前矿工工会领导人、新宪法的谈判者。姆贝基知道自己不是意中人，因此心怀怨恨，在担任总统期间，经常对曼德拉有微词。
Mr. Mandela mostly refrained from directly criticizing his successor, but his disappointment was unmistakable when Mr. Mbeki showed his intolerance of criticism and his conspiratorial view of the world. When Mr. Mbeki questioned mainstream medical explanations of the cause of AIDS, stifling open discussion that might have helped cope with a galloping epidemic, Mr. Mandela spoke up on the need for protected sex and cheaper medicines. When his eldest son, Makgatho, died in 2005, Mr. Mandela gathered family members to publicly disclose that the cause was AIDS.
曼德拉大部分时候避免直接批评他的继任，但是当姆贝基表现出对批评不宽容以及他的阴谋论世界观时，曼德拉的失望溢于言表。当姆贝基质疑艾滋病病因的主流医学解释、压制有助于遏制传染病快速蔓延的公共讨论时，曼德拉公开发表言论，指出安全性行为与便宜药物的必要。当他的大儿子马克贾托(Makgatho)2005年去世时，曼德拉把家庭成员召集到一起，公开透露他的死因是艾滋病。
In the 2007 interview, speaking on the condition that he not be quoted until after his death, Mr. Mandela was openly scornful of Mr. Mbeki’s leadership. The A.N.C., he said, had always succeeded as a movement and a party because it had drawn on the collective wisdom of its many constituencies.
在2007年的一次访谈中，曼德拉公开嘲讽姆贝基的领导能力，不过当时他要求这些话在他死前不发表。他说，非国大之所以是一个成功的运动和成功的政党，归因于它从许多不同的群体中汲取集体智慧。
“There is a great deal of centralization now under President Mbeki, where he takes decisions himself,” Mr. Mandela declared. “We never liked that.”
“如今在姆贝基的领导下，非国大变得相当集权化，他自行决策很多事情”，曼德拉宣称，“我们从来都不喜欢那样。”
Mr. Mbeki often found it excruciating to govern in Mr. Mandela’s shadow. He felt his predecessor had dealt him a nearly impossible hand — first by encouraging the notion that South Africa’s liberation was the magic of one great black man, and second by emphasizing accommodation with white power and thus doing relatively little to relieve the impoverished black majority.
姆贝基则觉得，在曼德拉的阴影下治理国家是极大的痛苦。他感到他的前任留给了他一手几乎无法打的牌，首先曼德拉鼓励人们相信南非的解放是一位伟大黑人的魔术，其次他强调与白人当权者的和解，因此没做多少事去解救贫困的黑人多数人口。
In interviews published in Mr. Gevisser’s biography, Mr. Mbeki chafed at President Mandela’s ability to rule by charm and stature, with little attention to the mechanics of governing.
在葛维瑟传记里的一次访谈中，姆贝基嘲笑曼德拉靠魅力和声望统治，说他很少留意治国的技术细节。
“Madiba didn’t pay any attention to what the government was doing,” Mr. Mbeki said, using the clan name for his predecessor. “We had to, because somebody had to.”
“马迪巴(Madiba)对政府事务一点都不关心，”姆贝基说道，“我们其他人则必须去关心，因为总得有人去关心。”（马迪巴是曼德拉的家族昵称。）
As a former president, Mr. Mandela lent his charisma to a variety of causes on the African continent, joining peace talks in several wars and assisting his wife, Graça, in raising money for children’s aid organizations.
作为一位前总统，曼德拉利用自己的魅力，支持非洲大陆的一系列事业，在几场战争中参与和谈，协助他的妻子格拉萨为儿童救助组织募捐。
In 2010, the World Cup soccer games took place in South Africa, another sporting-world benediction of the peace Mr. Mandela did so much to deliver to his country. But for Mr. Mandela, the proud occasion turned to heartbreak when his 13-year-old granddaughter Zenani was killed in an auto accident while returning from an opening-day concert. Mr. Mandela, who had been instrumental in luring the tournament to its first African setting, canceled his plans to attend the opening day.
2010年，体育世界的另一桩和平盛事世界杯足球赛在南非举行，曼德拉为南非赢得主办权立下了巨大功劳。但对曼德拉本人来说，这个令人自豪的盛事带给了他心碎的哀伤，他13岁的孙女岑娜妮(Zenani)开幕日当天从庆祝音乐会回家的路上死于车祸。世界杯赛首次来到非洲，曼德拉功不可没，但他却取消了出席开幕式的计划。
By then, his hearing and memory shaky, he had already largely withdrawn from public debate, declining almost all interview requests and confining himself to scripted public statements on issues like the war in Iraq. (He was vehemently against it.)
那时他的听力与记忆力已十分糟糕，他已经基本上退出公众辩论，回绝几乎所有的访谈请求，在诸如伊拉克战争等问题上只发表预先准备好的公开声明。（他强烈反对伊拉克战争。）
When he received a reporter for the 2007 interview, his aides were already contending with a custody battle over Mr. Mandela’s legacy — including where he would be buried and how he would be memorialized. Mr. Mandela insisted that his burial be left to his widow, and be done with minimal fanfare. His acolytes had other plans.
2007年他接受一位记者的采访时，他的助手们已经就他的后事展开了激烈的争夺战，包括他将被安葬在哪里，以及应该如何举办纪念活动等。曼德拉坚持把他的安葬事宜交给他的遗孀，而且尽量从简。但他的追随者却另有打算。