SINGAPORE — China struck back harshly at the United States and Japan on Saturday, as a senior Chinese military official accused Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan of acting in concert to sow controversy and division in the Asia-Pacific region.
新加坡——上周六，中国对美国和日本进行了严厉反击：中国的一名高级军官指责美国国防部长查克·哈格尔(Chuck Hagel)和日本首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)一唱一和，试图在亚太地区引起争端和分裂。
Speaking to reporters at a conference here of senior military officials from around the region, Lt. Gen. Wang Guanzhong, the deputy chief of staff of the People’s Liberation Army, characterized a speech on Saturday morning by Mr. Hagel, which followed one by Mr. Abe on Friday night, as “full of threats and intimidating language,” according to Chinese news media outlets.
据中国新闻媒体报道，在这里的一场由该地区高级军官参加的会议期间，中国人民解放军副总参谋长王冠中中将对记者说，继安倍晋三上周五晚上演讲之后，哈格尔周六上午的演讲“充满着威胁和恐吓语言”。
General Wang seemed especially annoyed that Mr. Hagel, who accused China of coercive tactics in its many maritime disputes with its neighbors, had made his accusations at a conference about regional cooperation.
似乎特别让王冠中恼怒的是，哈格尔在一个关于区域合作的会议上，指责中国在与邻国的多起海事纠纷中采用了胁迫性的手段。
“Secretary Hagel, in this kind of public space with many people, openly criticized China without reason,” General Wang said. “Secretary Hagel’s speech is full of encouragement, incitement for the Asia region’s instability giving rise to a disturbance.”
“在这样一个大庭广众的场合，哈格尔部长以非常坦率的方式和语言，把他演讲的主要篇幅用于公开点名地无端指责中国，这些指责完全都是毫无根据、毫无道理的。”王冠中说。“这是一篇充满着鼓动、怂恿亚太地区不安定因素起来闹事、挑事言辞的演讲。”
General Wang also criticized Mr. Abe’s speech, which contained several veiled criticisms of China. He said that Mr. Hagel and Mr. Abe appeared to be “singing in duet.”
王冠中还指责了安倍晋三在讲话中对中国进行了含沙射影的指责。他说，哈格尔和安倍晋三好像是在“一唱一和”。
“Over all these years, China has never actively provoked an incident over matters of Chinese sovereignty, territory and maritime boundaries,” the general said. “It’s always been other parties concerned taking the initiative to provoke trouble, and then the Chinese government has had no choice but to respond.”
王冠中说：“中国在事关主权、领土和海洋权益问题上，从未主动挑起事端，中国都是在有关方首先挑事的情况下，不得不采取应对措施。”
China’s official Xinhua news agency joined the fray, accusing the United States of “trying to practice its approach of ensuring the safety of its allies by maintaining its military dominance.”
中国官方通讯社新华社也加入战局，指责美国“试图通过维持其军事霸权的方法，以确保盟国的安全”。
The United States has been at odds with China over several air and maritime disputes in the East China Sea and the South China Sea.
美国和中国此前在东海及南海的多起领海领空争端中存在分歧。
General Wang and Mr. Hagel met briefly Saturday afternoon. A senior Defense Department official said they had discussed the friction between China and Vietnam over an oil rig that China has placed in disputed waters. The official characterized the meeting’s tone as cordial.
上周六下午，王冠中和哈格尔进行过简短会面。美国国防部的一名高级官员表示，他们讨论了中国和越南之间因一个石油钻井平台而产生的摩擦，中国称这个平台位于一片有争议的海域中。该官员称这次会见的基调是诚恳的。