KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The retired chief pilot of Malaysia Airlines is torn between logic and loyalty to an old friend. Nik Huzlan, 56, was one of the first captains to fly the 12-year-old Boeing 777 that disappeared over the Indian Ocean a year ago this Sunday. He has known the pilot who flew the plane that day, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, for decades.
马来西亚吉隆坡——马来西亚航空公司(Malaysia Airlines)现已退休的首席飞行员在逻辑和对老友的忠诚之间摇摆不定。56岁的尼克·胡兹兰(Nik Huzlan)是第一批驾驶这架拥有12年服务历史的波音777飞机的机长之一。一年前的3月8日，这架飞机在印度洋上空消失。他与当天操控飞机的机长扎哈里·艾哈迈德·沙阿(Zaharie Ahmad Shah)已相识数十年。
Mr. Huzlan is convinced that deliberate human intervention, most likely by someone in the cockpit, caused the aircraft, on a red-eye flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing, to suddenly turn around, cease communication with air traffic control and some six hours later run out of fuel and fall into the ocean. But he also said that he had never seen anything in more than 30 years of friendship that would suggest that Mr. Zaharie was capable of such a deed.
胡兹兰相信，这架从吉隆坡飞往北京的红眼航班飞机是因为人为的故意干预——极可能是驾驶舱里的某人——才突然调转方向，与空管人员停止交流，并在大约六小时后耗尽燃料而坠入海中。但他同时表示，在自己与扎哈里超过30年的交往期间，从未看到有任何迹象显示扎哈里具有作出这种举动的可能性。
“Based on logic, when you throw emotion away, it seems to point a certain direction which you can’t ignore,” Mr. Huzlan said. “Your best friend can harbor the darkest secrets.”
“从逻辑上来看，在不掺杂任何情感因素的情况下，答案似乎指向了一个你无法忽视的方向，”胡兹兰说。“你最好的朋友可能藏有最黑暗的秘密。”
No trace of the plane has been found, though four ships continue to scour a section of the ocean floor roughly the size of West Virginia and as deep as three miles below the surface. Without the plane’s flight recorders, the disappearance remains a mystery.
目前，人们尚未发现这架飞机的任何踪迹，尽管有四艘船在继续仔细搜索一片海床。这块地方的面积与美国的西弗吉尼亚州大致相当，深度可达3英里（约合5公里）。因为没有找到机上的飞行记录仪，它的失踪仍然是一个谜。
But the “rogue pilot theory,” as investigators call it, has emerged as the most plausible explanation among several. Many, but not all, of the investigators and experts who have reviewed the limited evidence say Mr. Zaharie, or perhaps the co-pilot, Fariq Abdul Hamid, is the likeliest culprit, though they caution that the evidence is limited and circumstantial, and that the theory is full of holes, like lack of a motive.
然而，调查人员口中的“飞行员行为失常理论”却是几种解释中显得最合理的一个。审核过有限证据的许多——并非所有——调查人员和专家表示，扎哈里，抑或副驾驶法里克·阿卜杜勒·哈米德(Fariq Abdul Hamid)最有可能是肇事者。不过，他们也提醒人们证据有限且源于间接推测，而且这个理论可谓千疮百孔，比如缺乏动机。
“I would say that’s my favorite, because it would fit best with what has happened,” said Peter Marosszeky, a longtime Australian airline executive who is now a senior research fellow at the University of New South Wales. But he added that without finding and retrieving at least part of the plane, it would be very hard to say anything conclusively.
“要我说的话，这是我最认可的一种理论，因为它能最好地解释所发生的事情，”新南威尔士大学(University of New South Wales)高级研究员彼得·马罗斯泽基(Peter Marosszeky)说。他曾在澳大利亚航空业长期担任高管。不过，他还表示，如果无法发现并找回至少一部分飞机残骸，就很难得出任何确切的结论。
Others still suspect a different explanation for the disappearance of a jumbo jet with 239 people aboard: mechanical failure, a fire, hijacking, sabotage or some other event as yet unknown.
其他一些人仍然怀疑，这架载有239人的大型客机的失踪还有别的解释：机械故障、起火、劫机、破坏或其他某种未知事件。
Psychological profiles of the pilot prepared after the disappearance of Flight 370 do not suggest Mr. Zaharie could have taken the plane down or would have had a compelling reason for doing so, several people with detailed knowledge of the investigation said. His family has emphatically denied that he would have deliberately turned the plane around and flown it to its destruction.
几名熟悉调查的人士称，MH370航班失踪后准备的飞行员心理资料并未显示扎哈里有可能会让飞机坠落，或具备这样做的有说服力的理由。他的家人断然否认他会故意调转飞机的航向，然后让飞机坠毁。
A rival theory in the early days after the plane’s disappearance, a midair equipment failure, falls apart for lack of a breakdown that could swiftly disable separate communications systems but still allow the plane to stay in the air and perform a long series of maneuvers.
飞机失踪之初，有另一种推测是设备在半空中出现故障。由于飞机不会出现能使其相互独立的几个通信系统迅速失去作用，但仍然能让它在空中执行一系列操作的故障，所以这个理论并不成立。
There were no reports of bad weather in the area.
失事地区也没有任何关于天气糟糕的报道。
Yet at 1:21 a.m. that March 8, 40 minutes into the flight, all communication with the aircraft was lost, and its radar label vanished from the screens of ground controllers. According to military radar, which continued to track the plane, it suddenly altered its northeasterly course, veering west and south, over the Malaysian Peninsula, across the island of Penang, where Mr. Zaharie grew up, and then headed out to sea across the Strait of Malacca before turning south into the Indian Ocean.
然而，去年3月8日凌晨1点21分，即航班起飞40分钟之后，飞机的通讯完全中断，其雷达图标也从地面控制塔台的荧幕中消失。当时仍在继续跟踪这架飞机的军事雷达显示，它原本在朝东北方向航行，却突然调头，转向西方和南方，飞过马来半岛，穿越扎哈里长大的地方槟城，然后朝向大海，飞过马六甲海峡，再转而向南飞行，进入印度洋上空。
Why is a question that may not be answered until the wreckage is found, and possibly not even then. The Malaysian government is expected to release an accident report in the next several days that may provide more information.
在找到残骸之前——甚至可能是在找到之后——“为何如此”的问题可能都无法找到答案。马来西亚政府计划在未来几天公布一份事故报告，其中或许会提供更多信息。
That puts the focus on finding the aircraft. Search planes and ships have been scouring the ocean west of Australia since late March. Based on modeling from the aircraft’s electronic handshakes with a satellite positioned over the Indian Ocean, an Australian-led team narrowed the search area to a 23,000-square-mile swath of ocean, about 1,100 miles west-northwest of Perth, Australia.
于是，事情的关键在于找到这架飞机。自去年3月底以来，负责搜索工作的飞机和船只一直在仔细排查澳大利亚以西的海域。根据对飞机与印度洋上空一枚卫星的电子握手信号的模型分析，由澳大利亚牵头的一个团队把搜索区域缩小到了2.3万平方英里（约合6万平方公里），而该区域位于澳大利亚珀斯西北偏西方向约1100英里处。
Four ships under contract by the Australian and Malaysian governments are searching the site, braving swells reaching 55 feet as cyclone after cyclone churns the ocean between Africa and Australia. Crews work 12-hour days, with no days off, six weeks at a time.
一阵阵龙卷风搅动着这片非洲和澳大利亚之间的海域，掀起可达55英尺（约合17米）高的巨浪。正是顶着这样的环境，与澳大利亚和马来西亚政府签约的四艘船在对这片区域进行搜索。船员每天工作12小时，期间没有休息日，每次持续工作六周。
The vessels are towing side-scan sonar devices that glide above the ocean floor at the end of armored fiber-optic cables up to 10,000 yards long, creating detailed maps of the ocean floor. They follow a pattern like mowing a lawn, heading back and forth in the search box to cover every square yard.
这些船只采用最长可达1万码（约合9100米）经强化处理的光纤缆线拖曳着侧扫声纳设备在海底滑行，绘制出海床的详细地图。这种做法与割草坪相似，在搜索区域中来回操作，不放过每一寸地方。
They have scoured nearly half the area so far, and they expect to complete the job by May.
迄今为止，他们已经排查了将近一半的区域，预计能在5月底完成搜寻工作。
“We still have pretty good confidence that we’ll find the aircraft in the priority search area,” Martin Dolan, the chief commissioner of the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, the agency leading the search, said in a telephone interview.
澳大利亚交通安全局(Australian Transport Safety Bureau)局长马丁·多兰(Martin Dolan)接受电话采访时说，“我们仍然有相当大的信心，将会在重点搜索区域找到飞机。”该机构负责牵头搜寻MH370的工作。
The Australian government has not begun consultations with other governments on what to do if they do not find the missing plane.
澳大利亚政府尚未开始与其他几国政府讨论，如果他们找不到这架失踪的飞机，接下来该做什么。
“I can’t promise that the search will go on at this intensity forever, but we will continue our very best efforts to resolve this mystery and provide some answers,” Prime Minister Tony Abbott of Australia told Parliament in Canberra on Thursday.
周四，澳大利亚总理托尼·阿博特(Tony Abbott)在堪培拉告诉议会，“我无法承诺搜索工作会永远保持在这种强度，但我们将继续竭尽全力地去解开这个谜团，提供一些答案。”
Extensive analyses of the satellite pings sent by the plane in its final hours show that it was headed more or less due south until it ran out of fuel. Statistical models show that in theory, it could have ended up anywhere in a 425,000-square-mile area, a swath of ocean about the size of Texas and California combined. Mr. Dolan said that it was “unlikely” the plane was outside the designated search area, however, because analyses of the satellite data suggest the plane was on autopilot as it flew south and made a steep descent at the end, consistent with a plane running out of fuel.
对飞机在最后几个小时发出的卫星脉冲信号的深入分析显示，在耗尽燃料之前，它朝着差不多正南的方向飞行。统计模型则显示，飞机理论上可能会在一片42.5万平方英里的海域内坠毁，而这片地方的面积相当于德克萨斯州和加利福尼亚州加起来。多兰表示，它“不大可能”在这片指定搜索区域之外，因为对卫星数据的分析显示，飞机在向南飞行时处于自动驾驶状态，最终又急剧下降，符合飞机耗尽燃料的情况。
Paul Kennedy, the search director for Fugro, the contractor operating three of the ships, is confident that his vessels can find the aircraft. The company’s sonar equipment can detect objects as small as a meter wide, and a 777 extends more than 63 meters, or about 200 feet.
搜索船舶中，有三艘由承包商辉固(Fugro)派出。公司的搜索工作主管保罗·肯尼迪(Paul Kennedy)相信，他的船队能够找到飞机。辉固的声纳设备可以探测到尺寸小至一米的物体，而波音777的长度超过63米。
“The technical publications give you confidence that we are looking in the right place,” Mr. Kennedy said. “It is just not possible for it to be anywhere else. Too many experts, around the world, independently analyzed the data and came to the same conclusion. These are seriously clever people.”
“技术数据让我们相信，我们正在正确的地方搜寻，”肯尼迪说。“它不可能在其他任何地方。世界上的很多专家都对数据进行了独立分析，得出了同样的结论。他们都是非常聪明的人。”
For the relatives of the passengers, a year has been a long time to go without answers. Many complain that the Malaysian and Chinese governments — 153 of the 227 passengers were Chinese — have ignored them.
对于乘客家属来说，一年没有得到答案，实在太过漫长。很多人抱怨，马来西亚政府和中国政府——227名乘客中有153名中国公民——在忽视他们。
“No one is listening,” said Steve Wang, whose mother was on the plane and who is an unofficial spokesman for the families in Beijing. “I cannot describe our rage.”
“没人倾听，”史蒂夫·王(Steve Wang)说。“我们的愤怒难以言表。”他的母亲就在那架飞机上，而他担任了北京地区家属的非官方发言人。
Like much of the public, they cannot fathom how, in an era where a missing mobile phone can be located in moments, a wide-body jetliner could simply vanish.
就像大部分民众一样，他们无法理解，在丢失的手机都能很快定位的时代，一架宽体喷气客机怎么会就这样消失了。
That sense of vulnerability gave new impetus to a long-running debate within the aviation industry over how flights could be tracked more closely in order to help rescuers and investigators respond more quickly in an emergency.
这种脆弱感给航空业长期以来的一项争论注入了新的动力。这一争论的主题是如何更密切地跟踪飞机，从而帮助救援人员和调查人员在紧急情况下更迅速地作出反应。
“Flight 370 showed that in today’s very connected world, the idea that we cannot know where every airplane is at any given moment has become unacceptable,” said Rémi Jouty, the director of the French Bureau of Investigations and Analysis, which has been advising investigators on the case.
法国调查与分析局(French Bureau of Investigations and Analysis)局长雷米·茹蒂(Rémi Jouty)表示，“370航班的事件说明，在当今这个紧密联系的世界里，那种我们无法在任何特定时刻知道飞机位置的现状已变得令人无法接受。”他所在的机构一直在为调查MH370事件的人员提供建议。
French investigators had recommended closer flight tracking measures, including real-time streaming of flight data, in 2012, after a two-year search for the wreckage of an Air France jetliner that crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009. But safety regulators were slow to respond with concrete proposals, viewing the likelihood of a similar event as extremely remote.
法国调查人员推荐过提高跟踪飞机密切程度的举措，比如，对2009年在大西洋坠毁的法航客机的残骸进行了两年的搜索之后，他们在2012年提议实时传输飞行数据。然而，安全监管机构反应迟缓，没有及时提出具体提议，认为发生类似事件的可能性非常小。
But it did happen again. And in the wake of the Flight 370 disappearance, the airlines and the International Civil Aviation Organization, a United Nations body, have agreed in principle on the need for all airliners to have the ability, by November 2016, to automatically report their position at least every 15 minutes, twice as often as the current average of around 30 minutes.
但事情的确再次发生了。在MH370航班消失之后，各大航空公司和联合国下属的国际民用航空组织(International Civil Aviation Organization)基本上达成一致，同意有必要让所有班机在2016年11月前具备至少每隔15分钟自动报告一次位置的能力，频率是现有水平——平均每30分钟左右报告一次——的两倍。
Had those measures been in place before Flight 370 took off from Kuala Lumpur Airport, they may not have prevented the plane from crashing, but the plane would have most likely been found by now and the question of what happened put to rest.
就算这些举措在MH370航班从吉隆坡机场起飞前得以落实，或许也无法阻止飞机坠毁，但它很可能现在已经被找到了，有关事件经过的问题也会得以解答。