The epitaph on David Phillip Vetter’s gravestone observes correctly that “he never touched the world.” How could he have? From a few seconds after his birth until two weeks before his death at age 12, David lived life entirely in one plastic bubble or another. Touching the world would have killed him in fairly short order. Even his two weeks outside a plastic cocoon were spent in a hospital trying, futilely, to stave off the inevitable.
大卫·菲利普·维特尔(David Phillip Vetter)的墓志铭很恰当地描述了一个事实，“他从未触摸过世界。”他怎么会呢？从他出生后几秒，直到他12岁去世前两周，大卫的整个生活都是在一个又一个塑料泡泡里度过的。触摸世界将在相当短的时间杀死他。即使他在塑料保护膜外的两个星期，也是在医院中徒劳地试图避开不可避免的结果。
There was never a child quite like David Vetter. Americans above the age of, say, 45 may remember him not so much by name as by a phenomenon of the 1970s and early ’80s: “the boy in the bubble.” The Retro Report series of video documentaries, exploring major news developments of the past, returns to that era through interviews with, among others, David’s mother and one of his doctors. More than just a look backward, the report examines medical strides that now give hope to the once-hopeless, coupled with ethical questions long part of the “bubble boy” story.
像大卫·维特尔这样的孩子绝无仅有。45岁以上的美国人可能记住的不是他的名字，而是1970年代和1980年代初的一个现象：“泡泡里的男孩。”探索过去重大新闻动态的“历史回眸”(Retro Report)系列电视纪录片，通过采访大卫的母亲和他的一位医生等人，带我们重返那个时代。该报告不仅仅是一段回顾，还审视了当今的医疗进步给曾经绝望的人们带来的希望，以及“泡泡男孩”故事的伦理问题。
David had severe combined immunodeficiency, usually referred to as SCID and pronounced “skid.” From birth, he had no functioning immune system. Any stray germ he picked up, be it from touching another person or breathing normal air, could have been lethal. SCID is a hereditary disease said to afflict, depending on which study one accepts, anywhere from one in 100,000 to one in 50,000 live births. In the United States, where nearly four million babies were born in 2014, that translates to 40 to 80 SCID infants a year.
大卫患有严重的联合免疫缺陷症，通常被称为SCID，发音为“skid”。从出生起，他的免疫系统就不起作用。他接触到的任何游离的细菌，无论是通过接触其他人还是呼吸正常空气，都可能是致命的。SCID是一种遗传性疾病，据说新生儿患此病的机率为十万分之一到五万分之一之间（取决于人们接受哪种研究）。2014年美国有近400万婴儿出生，这意味着一年有40到80位SCID患儿。
When David was born in September 1971 at Texas Children’s Hospital in Houston, this malady was a virtual death sentence. Indeed, a year earlier, another Vetter boy with SCID had died at 7 months old. Both children had the most common variant of the disease, one characterized by a fatal defect in the X chromosome and plaguing only boys (though girls can be carriers).
当大卫于1971年9月在休斯顿德克萨斯儿童医院出生时，这种疾病实际上就判了他死刑。事实上一年前，另一个患有SCID的维特尔式男孩已在7个月大时去世了。这两个孩子都得了这种病最常见的变体，特征是X染色体上的致命缺陷以及只有男孩会得（尽管女孩可能是携带者）。
The odds that any son in that family would have the immune deficiency were gulp-worthy: 50-50. Nonetheless, the parents wanted more children to accompany the daughter they already had. And so they took a chance. They put their faith in the developing technology of bone-marrow transplants and the possibility that it had advanced far enough to build a sound immune system in a child who would lack one. Their daughter, Katherine, was the intended donor.
这个家庭中男孩患上免疫缺陷的几率令人震惊：50%。尽管如此，这对父母还是想要更多的孩子来陪伴他们已经出生的女儿。因此，他们就冒险试了一下。他们寄希望于骨髓移植技术的发展，也许能进步到为缺少免疫系统的孩子建立一个健全免疫系统的地步。他们打算用凯瑟琳作供体。
Seconds after David first drew breath, he was put inside a sterile plastic bubble. The hope — more of an unanswered prayer, as events unfolded — was that this would be only a holding action until a transplant could be done. But Katherine’s blood turned out not to be a perfect match. As the boy grew older and bigger, and as doctors continued searching for a cure, life in the bubble became permanent.
在第一次呼吸后几秒，大卫就被放入一个无菌塑料泡泡内。人们希望在做移植手术前，这只是一个暂时的维持措施，但后来知道其实是一个未蒙应允的祷告。凯瑟琳的血液竟然不是完美的配型。随着男孩年龄与身体的增长，以及医生继续寻求治疗方法，泡泡中的生活成为了永久性的。
There had been a few other bubble babies, but none who endured that kind of existence anywhere near as long as David did. Doctors, nurses and relatives could reach out to him only through plastic gloves attached to the walls of his chamber. Anything that he received — food, water, diapers, clothing, books, a small television — had to be sterilized and inserted through airlocks. He was even baptized in the bubble, with sterilized holy water.
也曾有其他一些泡泡婴儿，但没有谁能像大卫一样如此长时间地忍受那种生存方式。医生、护士和家属只能通过挂在大卫房间墙壁上的塑料手套来接触他。他收到的所有东西——食物，水，尿布，衣物，书籍，一台小电视机——都必须消毒，并通过气闸送进去。甚至洗礼都是在泡泡里进行的，用的是消过毒的圣水。
When David was 3, a similar chamber was installed at his parents’ house in Conroe, Tex., north of Houston, making possible a shuttling between home and hospital. In his bubble, he had an occasional excursion, like a trip to a movie theater for a special screening of “Return of the Jedi.” When he was 6, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration constructed a special spacesuit that enabled him to leave the chamber and walk around, though always connected to the bubble via a long tube. He used the suit about seven times, then apparently lost interest.
大卫三岁时，父母在德克萨斯休斯敦北部的康罗家中安装了一个类似的房间，使他能够往返于家和医院。在他的泡泡里，他有过偶然的短途旅行，像去电影院观看特别放映的《绝地归来》。6岁时，美国国家航空和航天局(National Aeronautics and Space Administration)为他制作了一套特殊的宇航服，使他能够离开室内四处走动，尽管要始终通过长管连接到泡泡上。这套衣服他大约穿了七次，然后明显失去了兴趣。
Throughout, he was a national curiosity, his movements chronicled from time to time on television. In a sense, he had become the star of a mini-version of “The Truman Show.”
自始至终，整个国家都对他充满好奇，他的活动不时出现在电视上。从某种意义上说，他已经成为迷你版《楚门的世界》(The Truman Show)的主人公。
But over time, his life came to be fraught with ethical dilemmas. For instance, what if a mature David at some point demanded freedom from his hermetic environment, regardless of the risk? A psychologist who worked with him has recounted how the boy, always cheerful in televised images, sometimes raged off-camera at the terrible hand fate had dealt him.
但随着时间的推移，他的生活充满了伦理困境。举例来说，如果成年的大卫在某个时候不顾危险要求离开他封闭的环境以获得自由，那会怎么样呢？曾与他待过一段时间的一位心理学家曾说，尽管这个男孩在电视上总是以开朗的形象出现，但镜头之外有时他也对自己所遭受的可怕命运暴怒不已。
In October 1983, his doctors tried a new bone marrow technique, one that did not require a perfect blood match. As had originally been planned, Katherine Vetter was the donor. At first, the procedure seemed to work. But dormant and undetected in Katherine’s marrow was a virus, Epstein-Barr. It proved to be a killer, the trigger of cancerous tumors that overwhelmed David’s body.
1983年10月，他的医生尝试了新的骨髓技术，这种技术并不需要完美血液配型。按照最初的计划，凯瑟琳·维特是供体。一开始这种办法似乎是起作用的。但是，凯瑟琳的骨髓中有一种休眠和未被发现的病毒，爱泼斯坦-巴尔(Epstein-Barr)。它被证明是一个杀手，引发了让大卫身体不堪重负的癌症肿瘤。
At long last, he was taken out of the bubble and treated in a sterile hospital room. For the first time in his life, he was able to receive that most primal of human contacts: a mother’s kiss. But the end was at hand. On Feb. 22, 1984, two weeks after leaving the bubble — with a wink to his doctor, William T. Shearer, as a final gesture — David died.
终于，他被带出泡泡，在无菌病房接受治疗。这是他一生中第一次他能进行最原始的人类接触：母亲的吻。但是，结局就在眼前了。1984年2月22日，在离开泡泡两周后，大卫对他的医生威廉·T·希勒(WilliamT.Shearer)最后眨了一次眼，离开了人世。
Since then, medical science has progressed to a point where a bone-marrow transplant is usually successful in treating SCID when it is done within a baby’s first three months. Early SCID detection — it can be done in utero, the Retro Report video shows — has also greatly improved.
在那之后，医学取得了不小的进步。如果是在孩子出生三个月以内做手术，通过骨髓移植治疗SCID通常都会成功。SCID的早期检测——“历史回眸”栏目的视频显示，可以在子宫里实现——也得到了极大改善。
A possible new weapon in the medical arsenal is gene therapy, still in the clinical trial stage. With a harmless virus serving as the carrier, a healthy gene is inserted into a patient’s system to do the work of a defective gene that is the source of diseases like immune deficiency, sickle cell anemia and hemophilia. Gene therapy’s healing potential is widely accepted. But it has had plenty of setbacks along with triumphs since it was first tried in 1990, and has yet to be blessed by the Food and Drug Administration. Inevitably, too, there are ethical considerations. For some people, anything that smacks of genetic tinkering can touch off Frankenstein fears about whether we are redesigning human beings.
医学库中的一件可能的新武器是基因疗法，不过仍处在临床试验阶段。在这种治疗中，会用一种无害病毒充当载体，把一段健康基因注入患者的身体系统，承担有缺陷的基因的工作，从而缓解由此导致的免疫缺陷、镰状细胞性贫血和血友病等疾病。基因疗法的治愈潜力得到了广泛认可。但自1990年首次试验以来，这种疗法虽然获得过成功，却也遭遇了大量挫折，而且它还有待美国食品与药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)的认可。不可避免地，还有伦理方面的考量。对一些人来说，任何事情只要和修改基因沾边，便可能引发弗兰肯斯坦式的恐慌，担心我们是不是在重新设计人类。
Nor have doctors been let off the hook. The Rev. Raymond J. Lawrence, who was the director of clinical pastoral education at Texas Children’s Hospital during David’s time there, spoke at a 1975 conference that focused on the ethics of the boy’s medical care. Looking ahead to when David might reach his teens, Mr. Lawrence asked, “Could this person live for 15 years in that kind of isolation and be human?” Doctors at the conference generally responded that their obligation was to do what they could to preserve the boy’s life until they might be in a position to make it normal.
医生也未能摆脱这种挣扎。维特尔住在德克萨斯儿童医院期间，雷蒙德·J·劳伦斯牧师(Raymond J. Lawrence)是该院临床牧关教育的负责人。1975年，他在集中讨论维特尔的医疗护理涉及的伦理问题的一次会议上发言。在展望维特尔可能会活到少年期的情况时，劳伦斯发问，“在那种孤立环境中生活15年，这个人还是人吗？”与会医生普遍的回应是，竭尽所能地维持他的生命，直到可能有条件让它变正常，是他们的义务。
David was the last person believed to have been placed in so confined a bubble (other than in a few weak stabs at humor in film and on television). He left a legacy for science that included a new understanding of the role viruses can play in causing cancer. “What he gave us was a powerful lesson in many areas of medicine — and just in life itself,” Dr. Shearer told Retro Report.
维特尔据信是最后一个被安置在那么逼仄的泡泡里的人（影视作品中意在幽默的几次苍白尝试除外）。他给科学留下的遗产包括对病毒在致癌过程中所起作用的全新认识。“在很多医学领域，以及生命本身，他让我们吸取到了宝贵的经验，”希勒对“历史回眸”说。
The boy was buried in Conroe, a town he never truly knew. In noting that “he never touched the world,” his epitaph added, “But the world was touched by him.”
维特尔葬在康罗。实际上他从未真正了解过那个地方。在指出“他从未触摸过世界”后，他的碑文里写到，“但这个世界被他触动。”