Omran Daqneesh, a small Syrian boy from the embattled rebel-held section of Aleppo, somehow snapped to attention millions of people around the world, who watched and shared the arresting video of him as he wiped dried blood and thick soot from his face.
叙利亚阿勒颇(Aleppo)是一个遭围困的反对派控制区，来自那里的小男孩奥姆兰·达克尼什(Omran Daqneesh)，突然之间引起全世界成百上千万人关注，他们观看并转发了他擦去脸上的干血和厚尘土的惊人视频。
The widespread interest in 5-year-old Omran surprised the doctors who treated him, the photographer who shot the video and many Syrians who wondered whether the world had only just discovered how children have suffered every day in a war that has raged for more than five years.
5岁的奥姆兰所引起的广泛关注令他的医生、拍摄这段视频的摄影师以及很多叙利亚人感到意外，他们想知道世人是否刚知道，在过去五年多肆虐的战火中，孩子们每天都在遭受痛苦。
On Saturday, Omran’s 10-year-old brother, Ali, died of wounds he suffered during the same attack, medical workers said. Ali’s death, which did not draw the same instant social media outpouring as Omran’s suffering, only underscored how many Syrian children are dying under the radar of the wider world.
医护人员称，周六，奥姆兰10岁的哥哥阿里(Ali)因在同一场袭击中受伤过重去世。阿里之死并没有像奥姆兰的遭遇那样在社交媒体上立即引发轰动。不过这更突显出，无数叙利亚儿童正在广大世界不知情的情况下默默死去。
Omran was injured on Wednesday by either a Syrian or a Russian airstrike — Russia has denied involvement — that destroyed the building where his family lived in eastern Aleppo. On Thursday, a pro-government website published a photograph of a young girl that it said was hurt — around the same time as Omran — by rebel mortar attacks on the government-held western side of the city.
周三，奥姆兰在空袭中受伤，该空袭可能由叙利亚发起，也可能是俄罗斯——俄罗斯已否认与自己有关，空袭摧毁了他家在阿勒颇东部居住的房子。周四，一个亲政府的网站公布了一个据说受伤的小女孩的照片。她几乎是和奥姆兰同时受伤的，不过是在政府控制的城市西部，因反对派的迫击炮袭击而受伤。
The rebels have no air power, and the devastation in Aleppo has been greater on the rebel-held side. One monitoring group, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said that 100 children had died on the city’s eastern side this month alone, and 49 on the western side. For each family, the loss is immeasurable. And there are children constantly caught up in battles in other places, on all sides, across war-torn Syria.
反对派没有空中部队，所以他们在阿勒颇的控制区遭到的破坏更严重。叙利亚人权观察组织(Syrian Observatory for Human Rights)称，单是本月在该市东部就有100名儿童死去，西部则有49名儿童死去。对每个家庭来说，损失都是不可估量的。在被战火撕裂的叙利亚，在各方控制的其他区域，不断有儿童被卷入战火。
Omran’s picture has resonated for reasons obvious and unknowable. Here are images of seven of the many other children treated in the past week at hospitals in the same region. They are taken from among several that were posted by doctors and other residents of Aleppo on a WhatsApp group for journalists.
奥姆兰的照片引起共鸣的原因有些很明显，有些不得而知。过去一周，同一地区的各医院有多名儿童接受治疗，下面是其中七名儿童的照片。它们选自阿勒颇的医生和其他居民在WhatsApp的一个记者群里发布的照片。
Ahmad Tadifi, 2
艾哈迈德·塔迪菲，2岁
Doctors did not know who this child was when he arrived at the same hospital that treated Omran. On Wednesday, Ahmad had been separated from his family — as happens to many children in the chaotic aftermath of an attack — in the Mashhad neighborhood of Aleppo.
这个孩子被送到医治奥姆兰的同一家医院时，医生们不知道他是谁。周三，艾哈迈德(Ahmad)在阿勒颇的马什哈德(Mashhad)与家人失散——在袭击后的混乱中，很多孩子都遇到过这种情况。
He underwent surgery for serious injuries to his head, groin and right arm and leg. Later identified, Ahmad was kept in the intensive care unit of the hospital along with his father.
他因为头部、腹股沟、右臂和右腿受重伤而接受手术治疗。后来艾哈迈德的身份确定后，他和父亲一起住进了该院的重症监护室。
Late on Friday, he died from his injuries.
周五晚些时候，他因伤势过重去世。
Rouwaida, 5, and Rana Hanoun, 7 months
卢万达·哈农，5岁；拉娜·哈农，7个月
The Hanoun sisters were wounded on Wednesday in the same airstrike that injured Omran. They were among 12 children under 15 who were treated at the same hospital in Aleppo. Both of the girls had suffered shrapnel wounds, but were treated and then released on Thursday morning. Doctors shared their picture with the WhatsApp group around the same time they shared the photograph of Omran.
周三，在导致奥姆兰受伤的同一场空袭中，哈农(Hanoun)姐妹也受伤了。在这家医院，接受治疗的15岁以下儿童共有12名。两姐妹都是因榴霰弹受伤，不过在接受治疗后已于周四早上出院。几乎是在那个WhatsApp群里发布奥姆兰照片的同时，医生们也发了她们的照片。
Aisel Hajar, 2
埃塞尔·哈杰尔，2岁
Aisel suffered wounds to her head and to one of her legs on Tuesday, and was treated at Al Quds hospital. On Saturday, the severity of her injuries could not be confirmed because doctors were busy treating new cases. But activists have nicknamed her “Syria’s Cinderella” because of a picture that one took of her shoes — Mary Janes, worn with white socks.
周二，埃塞尔(Aisel)的头部和一条腿受伤，在圣城医院(Al Quds)接受治疗。周六，依旧无法确认她的伤势，因为医生们在忙于治疗新病人。不过，活动人士称她为“叙利亚的灰姑娘”，因为有一张照片拍到她穿着玛丽珍鞋(Mary Janes)和白色短袜。
Amal, 4, and Hikmat Hayouk, 6
阿迈勒·哈欧克，4岁；希克马特·哈欧克，6岁
The Hayouk siblings suffered cuts and bruises when an aircraft opened fire on Wednesday over the Sakhour neighborhood, and they were treated around the same time and at the same hospital as Omran. The children’s wounds were relatively minor, but an adult relative suffered a critical neck wound.
周三，一架飞机在萨胡尔(Sakhour)社区上空开火，哈欧克(Hayouk)兄妹身上有多处划伤和瘀伤。他们几乎是和奥姆兰在同一时间、同一家医院接受治疗。这两个孩子的伤势相对较轻，不过他们的一名成年亲戚颈部受到重伤。
An unidentified boy
一个身分不明的男孩
Efforts to identify this boy, below, were unsuccessful. He was treated on Tuesday night at the Omar Hospital and released, said Baraa al-Halabi, a citizen journalist who photographed him. None of the medical workers who could be reached remembered the boy, which is not unusual in the overwhelmed hospitals.
确认下面这名男孩身份的努力没有成功。给他拍照的公民记者巴拉·艾尔-哈拉比(Baraa al-Halabi)称，周二晚上，这名男孩在奥马尔医院(Omar Hospital)接受治疗，后来出院。能联系上的医护人员都不记得这个男孩——在忙碌的医院，这种情况并不少见。
At 3 a.m. Saturday, a barrel bomb landed on a house in the Jalloum quarter of Aleppo’s old city, destroying the house and killing seven members of one family — including all four children — said Abdelkafi al-Hamdo, a friend of the father’s. The children were Aisha, 12; Mohammad, 11; Obaida, 7; and Afraa, 6. There is no picture of their injuries to show because they were pulled dead from the rubble. Their father, Ali Abu Joud, recorded this video of three of his children’s bodies wrapped in shrouds. His voice can be heard breaking as he tells them goodbye, calling them “habibati” — my darlings — “birds of heaven, gone to the one who is better, gone to God.”
周六凌晨3点，阿勒颇旧城贾鲁姆区(Jalloum)的一所房子毁于油桶炸弹，造成七名家庭成员殒命，据孩子父亲的朋友阿卜德尔卡菲·艾尔-哈姆多(Abdelkafi al-Hamdo)说，死者包括全家四个孩子。他们分别是12岁的艾莎(Aisha)、11岁的穆罕默德(Mohammad)、7岁的奥巴达(Obaida)和6岁的阿夫拉(Afraa)。没有他们受伤的照片，因为他们从碎石中拉出来时已经死去。他们的父亲阿里·阿布·朱德(Ali Abu Joud)拍摄了三个孩子的尸体裹在裹尸布里的视频。他跟他们告别时，你能听见他哽咽地呼唤他们“habibati”——意思是“我亲爱的”——“天堂的小鸟，去更好的地方吧，去真主那里吧”。