In a corner booth at the Tribeca Grand Hotel, James Franco scans the menu and announces he’s getting the chopped salad. Professionally, however, he’s become notorious for ordering everything, ricocheting among projects like a pinball. His latest is “Child of God,” a bruising, low-budget adaptation of a 1973 Cormac McCarthy novel set in the Tennessee backwoods. Franco co-wrote, directed and appears briefly in the film, which follows Lester Ballard (Scott Haze), an unhinged loner who descends into madness, menacing the townsfolk with a shotgun, which he becomes increasingly eager to use. Franco, who recently wrapped a successful Broadway run as the star of “Of Mice and Men,” spoke with T about his unique fan base, his notorious productivity and his uneasy relationship with fame.
詹姆斯·弗兰科(James Franco)坐在翠贝卡大酒店的一个角落卡座里，看着菜单，说自己要点碎丁沙拉。不过，从职业角度，他可是以什么都想要而臭名昭著的，就像弹子球一样在不同的项目之间跳来跳去。他的新作是《神之子》(Child of God)，这是一部非常激烈的低成本影片，改编自考麦克·麦卡锡(Cormac McCarthy)1973年的小说，发生在田纳西州的边远地带。弗兰科参与了编剧，亲自执导，并在片中短暂亮相。影片拍摄了精神错乱的孤独者莱斯特·巴拉德（Lester Ballard，斯科特·黑兹[Scott Haze]饰演）陷入疯狂，用枪支威胁镇上的居民——他愈来愈渴望用枪。最近又成功打入百老汇，在《人鼠之间》(Of Mice and Men)中饰演主角的弗兰科，接受了《T》杂志采访，谈起自己独一无二的粉丝基础，恶名远扬的高产能力以及与“名声”之间令人不安的关系。
Q. Who is the quintessential James Franco fan? Is it the young girl who sees everything you’re in because she thinks you’re a babe, or is it the art student who’s fascinated by your work and studies it?
问：詹姆斯·弗兰科的粉丝主要是什么人？是那种会看你参与的所有项目，觉得你就像个小宝贝一样的年轻女孩吗，抑或是迷恋你的作品，并会从中学习的艺术学生？
A. That’s funny. I guess in my head it’s all of it. I like the idea that there’s this weird crossover. I do a lot of different things, and I like that one group can be pulled to the other side and vice versa. Yeah, if you went to the stage door at the Longacre Theatre these past three months, you’d see mostly girls in their teens and twenties, but the work that I’m doing, it’s not like I’m Justin Bieber.
答：说来很有意思。我觉得在我心目中二者兼有。我喜欢这种古怪的交叉。我做了很多不一样的事情，我希望其中的一个群体可以受我做的另一部分事情吸引，反之亦然。耶，如果你曾在过去三个月走过长亩剧院(Longacre Theatre)的舞台大门，就会看到许多十几二十岁的女孩，但我做的工作可跟贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)不一样。
You make an appearance at the end of “Child of God,” which is jarring in a movie that until then is filled with unrecognizable actors. Was that for financing purposes?
问：你在《神之子》的片尾亮相，这部影片中都是不出名的演员，你的出现有点不协调。这是因为经济原因吗？
Hopefully we shot my appearance in such a way that you can quickly see it’s not a star turn and just kind of go with the story. But yeah, these kinds of movies are always a balancing act, doing what’s best for it and finding solutions to get the money.
答：我们希望拍出这种效果，你能立刻看出这不是什么明星出场，而是剧情需要。但是，耶，这样的电影都是平衡的结果，得尽到最大努力，想办法去弄钱。
Do you feel that you’re often misunderstood, or that for the most part people get you?
问：你觉得自己经常遭到误解吗，或者大多数人都误解你？
It’s not something I concern myself with so much because I don’t feel a great need to be understood. It’s not like I’m running for office. I’m making art, so it’s not like there’s any one answer to what I’m doing. If there’s a bit of mystery or just straight confusion or misreading, that’s part of it.
答：我并不太担心这样的事，因为我不觉得特别需要被理解。我又不是竞选公职，我是在搞艺术，所以我做什么不需要向任何人负责。如果我做的事情里有一点神秘、让人困惑或者造成误读，那也是艺术的一部分。
If you had to spend a night in jail, what kind of thoughts would you entertain yourself with?
问：如果你必须在监狱里度过一夜，你会想些什么事情呢？
That’s so weird, I was just thinking about this. Normally when I go to the bathroom, I have my phone with me and I’m looking at news or emailing or whatever. But the other day I went to the bathroom without my phone and it was like, Whoa, remember this? If I get a massage or something and my thoughts just run, I think about the stuff I’m going to do, the stuff I’ve done, just ideas really.
答：真奇怪，我刚才还在想呢。我一般上厕所都带着电话，看新闻或者查电子邮件之类的。但是有一次我上厕所时没带电话，感觉就是，“哇，怎么忘了？”要是这时候收到短信之类的怎么办，我就这样胡思乱想。我想着将要做的事，已经做过的事，各种念头。
Your productivity has been a topic of much discussion. When you’re not being productive, does it ever feel like you’re wasting time, and do you feel guilty about it?
问：人们一直都在讨论你的高产，当你不在创作的时候，是不是会觉得自己在浪费时间，会有负罪感吗？
It’s not that I feel guilty. For a long time, part of me was working so hard because I wasn’t happy with a lot of the things I’d done. When “Flyboys” and “Annapolis” came out, I was like, Something has to change. And then after a while, I’d done enough things — movies I’d acted in and directed, things I’d written — that I was really proud of. I got to a point where I had these things that I will be proud of for the rest of my life, and you know what? A lot of people don’t even get to say that.
答：那不是出于负罪感。很长一段时间里，我一直勤奋工作，部分是因为我对自己做的许多东西不满意。《空战英豪》(Flyboys)和《征服怒海》(Annapolis)出来后，我觉得有些东西必须改变了。过了一段时间，我做了足够多的事，表演、执导了许多电影，写了一些东西，它们都值得我为之骄傲。我觉得有了这些东西，我的余生都可以为之自豪了，你知道吗，很多人根本不会这样说。
But you keep going at such a breathless pace.
问：但是你的节奏快得让人喘不过气来。
I know, but for me some very important things have changed, mainly my teaching. I teach at three or four schools. That makes a world of difference. That is me saying to myself and other people, I’m focused on other people’s work. It’s not all about me and my work. It’s now about giving opportunities, and my time and attention, to other people’s work.
答：我知道，但是对于我来说，有些重要的东西已经改变了，主要是我的教学工作。我在三四个学校里教书。这是能够改变世界的事情。这就是我，在对自己和其他人发言，我在关注其他人的作品。这不是只关于我和我的作品，现在我是在给予别人机会，并且付出我的时间和关注。
What is the secret to your productivity?
问：你高产的秘诀是什么？
I work in a lot of collaborative mediums, so I work with people who are like-minded and want to do the kinds of projects that I want to do. So if you’re doing these collaborations, it’s like, They can handle this part. And you have to learn how to delegate and let things go. If I could spend more time on something, to me it doesn’t necessarily equate to a better product.
答：我同许多协作媒介一起工作，所以是在想法相似的人一起工作，他们想做的事和我一样。所以如果你参与这样的写作，他们就会负责这一部分。你得学会授权给别人，放手让别人去做。在某些事情上花更多时间并不意味着最后的结果也会更好。
Most of the movies you direct are very esoteric. Do you think you could take on a commercial Hollywood movie?
问：你执导的大部分影片都很晦涩，你觉得自己能拍一部好莱坞商业片吗？
Yeah, I’m doing a movie based on Tommy Wiseau’s “The Room,” and Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg are producing that. So even though that’s not “Spider-Man,” I’m going at it in a way where — those guys are so good at being in a commercial world, but also doing exactly what they want — that I’m kind of letting them guide me.
答：耶，我正在拍的《房间》(The Room)是根据汤米·维索(Tommy Wiseau)的故事改编的，赛斯·罗根(Seth Rogen)和伊文·戈德堡(Evan Goldberg)一起制作。所以尽管这部片子不是《蜘蛛侠》(Spider-Man)，我还是要让这些人来指导我，因为他们不仅在商业的世界如鱼得水，而且也做出了自己想要的东西。
Speaking of Seth, what was your reaction when Kim Jong-un declared your upcoming North Korea comedy “The Interview” an “act of war”?
问：说起赛斯，你对于金正恩宣布你即将上映的、关于朝鲜的喜剧《采访》(The Interview)是“战争行为”怎么看？
Honestly, dude, I want to talk to you about that, but they told me I can’t. We eventually will talk about it. When we promote the movie, I’m sure we’ll figure out a way to talk about it, but right now we’re not supposed to address it.
答：诚实地说，伙计，我很想和你聊这个，但他们嘱咐我不能说。我们以后会说这个的。等我们宣传这部电影的时候，我确定我们会找个办法谈这个，但现在我们不能说。
A lot of people seem burdened by their fame, whereas you seem to be having a lot of fun with it. Are you making a conscious effort to do that? 
问：很多人似乎都受名声所累，你却好像乐在其中。你是故意这样的吗？
Yeah, and that’s no small thing. Fame can torture people. Look at Kurt Cobain, or my new friend Lana Del Rey. Fame enters your life either slowly or quickly, and it’s something you need to contend with one way or another. And I think I’ve figured out a way to be okay with it, so that it doesn’t have an effect on the work I want to do and doesn’t creep into certain areas of my life in a destructive way. And I also found that I like my fans. They’re generally nice people, and I know what it’s like to be a fan. I have people that I look up to, so I don’t want to be that disappointment. I want to give them a good experience.
答：耶，这可不是小事。名声可以很折磨人。你看科特·柯本(Kurt Cobain)，还有我的新朋友拉娜·德雷(Lana Del Rey)。名声或快或慢地进入你的生活，你或多或少都得去应付。我觉得我找到了一个适应它的办法，让它不至于影响我想做的工作，不会以毁灭的方式侵入我生活的特定领域。我也发现我喜欢我的粉丝们。他们大都是好人，我知道当粉丝是什么感觉。我也有敬仰的人，所以我不想让人失望。我想给他们愉快的体验。
You’ve been writing for publications like Vice, The Daily Beast and The New York Times. How does that work? Are you pitching them story ideas?
问：你给《Vice》、《每日野兽》(The Daily Beast)和《纽约时报》写过稿子，感觉怎么样？是你向他们投稿吗？
No, they come to me. Although when I wrote for The Times, they came to me on that selfie one, and then the same editor asked me about Shia LaBeouf, and I was like, I have a lot I could say, let me write something.
答：不，是他们来找我。不过我给《纽约时报》写东西时，他们先是邀请我写那篇关于自拍的东西，后来同一个编辑问我对希安·拉博夫(Shia LaBeouf)怎么看，我说，这事我可有很多要说的呢，干脆我来写点什么吧。
Do you feel more comfortable in Hollywood or the art world?
问：是好莱坞还是艺术界更让你觉得自在？
That’s a good question. I have very good friends in a lot of different worlds. I went to school for writing so I have very, very close friends in the literary world, and I have very close friends in the art world. But as far as where I just feel like, This is my place and I have a certain amount of authority or weight to throw around, it is certainly the movie world. That’s where people really accept me.
答：这是个好问题，在两个世界里我都有很好的朋友。我曾去学过写作，所以我在文学圈里有非常非常亲密的朋友，在艺术界里我也有很亲密的朋友。但我感觉这里才是我的地盘，我在这里有一定的权威和分量，那当然就是电影界了。这里才是人们真正接纳我的地方。