THERE are plenty of reasons to put our cellphones down now and then, not least the fact that incessantly checking them takes us out of the present moment and disrupts family dinners around the globe. But here’s one you might not have considered: Smartphones are ruining our posture. And bad posture doesn’t just mean a stiff neck. It can hurt us in insidious psychological ways.
有很多理由时不时地把手机放下，比如时常查看手机会让你脱离当下的时刻，这可在世界各地扰乱了无数的家庭聚会。但并非仅限于此，还有一个你可能没有考虑过的理由：智能手机把我们的体态都毁掉了。而糟糕的身姿不仅意味着颈部僵硬，还会在潜在的心理层面对我造成损害。
If you’re in a public place, look around: How many people are hunching over a phone? Technology is transforming how we hold ourselves, contorting our bodies into what the New Zealand physiotherapist Steve August calls the iHunch. I’ve also heard people call it text neck, and in my work I sometimes refer to it as iPosture.
如果你在公共空间，请四下望一望，有多少人正弓着背看手机？科技改变了我们保持的体态，把我们的躯体改变成了新西兰理疗学家史蒂夫·奥古斯特(Steve August)所说的“iHunch”（i弓背）。我还听到过有人把它形容为“短信脖”，我在工作中经常把它形容为iPosture（i身姿）。
The average head weighs about 10 to 12 pounds. When we bend our necks forward 60 degrees, as we do to use our phones, the effective stress on our neck increases to 60 pounds — the weight of about five gallons of paint. When Mr. August started treating patients more than 30 years ago, he says he saw plenty of “dowagers’ humps, where the upper back had frozen into a forward curve, in grandmothers and great-grandmothers.” Now he says he’s seeing the same stoop in teenagers.
普通人的头颅的重量大约是10至12磅（4.5至5.4公斤）。我们将颈部前倾60度，就像在用手机时那样，颈部的实际压力就会增加60磅——相当于19升油漆的重量。奥古斯特说，自己在30多年前开始诊治病人时，他见到了很多“老妪驼背，即后背上部僵化成朝前的弯弧”，这种情况多见于“奶奶或太奶奶年纪的人”。但他说，如今在青少年当中见到了同样的弓背体态。
When we’re sad, we slouch. We also slouch when we feel scared or powerless. Studies have shown that people with clinical depression adopt a posture that eerily resembles the iHunch. One, published in 2010 in the official journal of the Brazilian Psychiatric Association, found that depressed patients were more likely to stand with their necks bent forward, shoulders collapsed and arms drawn in toward the body.
我们在伤心的时候，就会低头垂肩，在感到害怕或无助的时候也会低头垂肩。研究显示，确诊为抑郁症的人群所维持的体态与iHunch有让人惊恐的相似性。2010年巴西精神病学会(Brazilian Psychiatric Association)官方学刊上发表的一项研究发现，抑郁症患者采取站立姿态时，更容易颈部前倾、肩部下耷、手臂向内。
Posture doesn’t just reflect our emotional states; it can also cause them. In a study published in Health Psychology earlier this year, Shwetha Nair and her colleagues assigned non-depressed participants to sit in an upright or slouched posture and then had them answer a mock job-interview question, a well-established experimental stress inducer, followed by a series of questionnaires. Compared with upright sitters, the slouchers reported significantly lower self-esteem and mood, and much greater fear. Posture affected even the contents of their interview answers: Linguistic analyses revealed that slouchers were much more negative in what they had to say. The researchers concluded, “Sitting upright may be a simple behavioral strategy to help build resilience to stress.”
体态不仅能反映我们的情感状态，还能塑造我们的情感状态。今年早些时候《健康心理学》(Health Psychology)上发表的一项研究中，施威塔·纳伊尔(Shwetha Nair)和她的同事们，让被试者分别以上身挺拔或低头垂肩的姿态坐着，参加模拟的求职面试，之后再做一系列问卷。模拟面试是一种广泛采用的制造压力的方式。与坐姿挺拔的人相比，低头垂肩的人报告的自尊心和情绪都显然更低落，恐惧感也更强。姿态甚至还影响了他们对面试问题的回答。语言学分析显示，低头垂肩的人所给出的答案更加消极。研究人员总结道，“在建立抗压能力方面，保持坐姿挺拔可能是一个简单的行为策略。”
Slouching can also affect our memory: In a study published last year in Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy of people with clinical depression, participants were randomly assigned to sit in either a slouched or an upright position and then presented with a list of positive and negative words. When they were later asked to recall those words, the slouchers showed a negative recall bias (remembering the bad stuff more than the good stuff), while those who sat upright showed no such bias. And in a 2009 study of Japanese schoolchildren, those who were trained to sit with upright posture were more productive than their classmates in writing assignments.
低头垂肩也会影响记忆。去年发表在《临床心理学与心理疗法》(Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy)上的一篇论文，对确诊抑郁症的人群进行了研究。研究人员随机地让被试者以低头垂肩或挺拔竖直的姿势坐下，之后给他们展示一系列正面或负面的词语。之后他们被要求回忆那些词语时，低头垂肩的人表现出了负面回忆偏误，即记得的坏词比好词多，而坐姿挺拔的人没有表现出这种偏误。2009年对日本学童进行的一项研究中，被指示要坐姿挺拔的孩子，在作文作业中表现得更有效率。
How else might iHunching influence our feelings and behaviors? My colleague Maarten W. Bos and I have done preliminary research on this. We randomly assigned participants to interact for five minutes with one of four electronic devices that varied in size: a smartphone, a tablet, a laptop and a desktop computer. We then looked at how long subjects would wait to ask the experimenter whether they could leave, after the study had clearly concluded. We found that the size of the device significantly affected whether subjects felt comfortable seeking out the experimenter, suggesting that the slouchy, collapsed position we take when using our phones actually makes us less assertive — less likely to stand up for ourselves when the situation calls for it.
那么iHunch对我们的情感和行为可能还有什么影响？我的同事马丁·W·博斯(Maarten W. Bos)和我，对此做了初步的研究。我们随机地安排测试参与者花五分钟时间，与四种尺寸各异的电子设备互动：智能手机、平板电脑、笔记本电脑、台式电脑。之后我们再看参与者要等多久，才会问研究者是否可以离开，因为研究显然已经结束。我们发现，设备的尺寸会显著地影响参与者是否愿意询问研究者。这暗示出，我们使用手机时采取的低头垂肩的俯身姿态，实际上会让我们更不强势——在情势需要时挺身而出的可能性也更小。
In fact, there appears to be a linear relationship between the size of your device and the extent to which it affects you: the smaller the device, the more you must contract your body to use it, and the more shrunken and inward your posture, the more submissive you are likely to become.
实际上，设备的尺寸似乎与它影响你的程度呈线性相关。设备越小，使用它时你的身体就越要被迫收缩，体态也越会收缩、向内，也越可能会变得容易顺从。
Ironically, while many of us spend hours every day using small mobile devices to increase our productivity and efficiency, interacting with these objects, even for short periods of time, might do just the opposite, reducing our assertiveness and undermining our productivity.
讽刺的是，尽管我们很多人每天会花很多时间，用小型的移动设备提高生产率和工作效率，但哪怕与这种设备互动一小段时间，也能产生相反的影响，削弱我们的自信、影响我们的工作效率。
Despite all this, we rely on our mobile devices far too much to give them up, and that’s not going to change anytime soon. Fortunately, there are ways to fight the iHunch.
尽管如此，我们还是太过依赖移动设备，无法放弃它们，这一点在可预见的未来是不会改变的。幸运的是，有一些方法对抗iHunch。
Keep your head up and shoulders back when looking at your phone, even if that means holding it at eye level. You can also try stretching and massaging the two muscle groups that are involved in the iHunch — those between the shoulder blades and the ones along the sides of the neck. This helps reduce scarring and restores elasticity.
在看手机时把头抬起来，肩膀向后收，哪怕这意味着把手机举到眼睛的高度。你还可以尝试拉伸和按摩iHunch体态中牵动的两块肌肉群——肩胛骨之间的肌肉和颈部两侧的肌肉。这有助于减少劳损，恢复弹性。
Finally, the next time you reach for your phone, remember that it induces slouching, and slouching changes your mood, your memory and even your behavior. Your physical posture sculpts your psychological posture, and could be the key to a happier mood and greater self-confidence.
最后，下一次去拿手机时，记得它会诱导你低头垂肩，而低头垂肩又会改变你的情绪、记忆，甚至行为。你身体的姿态会塑造你心理的姿态，可能对于更喜悦也更自信的情绪是很关键的。