LONDON — The bizarre death of a British intelligence analyst whose body was discovered inside a sports bag in a bathtub was called a probable accident by the London police on Wednesday, an inconclusive ending to one of the most puzzling investigations in recent years.
伦敦——伦敦警方周三宣布，一名英国情报分析师的离奇死亡很可能是意外事故，该说法给这个近年来最令人不解的案件提供了一个非结论性的答案。几年前，警方在浴缸内的一个运动包里发现了这位分析师的尸体。
Gareth Williams, 31, a Welsh-born mathematician involved in code-breaking work, was found dead on Aug. 23, 2010, by police officers who entered his London apartment. His naked body was curled in a fetal position inside a sports bag in an otherwise empty bathtub. In a twist worthy of a spy movie, the bag was padlocked, but the keys to the lock were inside the bag, beneath the decomposing body.
31岁的加雷思·威廉斯(Gareth Williams)出生于威尔士，是一名从事解码工作的数学家。2010年8月23日，警察进入他位于伦敦的公寓时，发现他已经死亡。他一丝不挂的尸体蜷缩在一个放在浴缸里的运动包内，浴缸里没有任何其他东西。和侦探电影的情节一样曲折的是，这个包被上了锁，但是开锁的钥匙却在包里，在腐烂的尸体下方。
Mr. Williams had evidently led a private existence, with few close friends. But with its tantalizing glimpse into the secretive world of espionage, the “spy in a bag” case drew intense interest from the news media, which speculated that Mr. Williams might have been killed, or might have died as an accidental consequence of an interest in escapology or bondage.
威廉斯的生活明显比较封闭，与他关系密切的朋友不多。但是，由于这个“包里的间谍”案让人瞥见了间谍活动的秘密世界，激起了人们的兴趣，它也受到了媒体的广泛关注。据媒体揣测，威廉斯可能是被他人所杀，也可能是在试验逃脱术或进行捆绑性虐时意外死亡的。
A post-mortem examination failed to identify a cause of death. A coroner’s inquest in 2012 found that someone else was probably involved in the death. However, the police now say they believe that Mr. Williams was most likely alone and locked himself in the bag, though they cannot rule out the possibility that someone else was present.
尸检未能查明他的死亡原因。验尸官2012年的调查发现，他的死可能与他人有关。但警方目前表示，他们认为威廉斯当时非常可能是孤身一人，是他把自己锁在了袋子里，虽然他们也无法排除有他人在场的可能性。
“From the inquest, we set up our investigation in a different way, and this has led to greater clarity on some aspects of the case,” Deputy Assistant Commissioner Martin Hewitt, who oversaw the police investigation, said in a statement. “Now, at the end of our investigation, based on the evidence, or where we have been unable to find positive evidence, we believe that it is a more probable conclusion that there was no other person present when Gareth died.”
“经过验尸，我们采用不同方法进行调查，案情的一些方面也变得更明朗了，”负责警方调查的助理副局长马丁·休伊特(Martin Hewitt)在声明中说，“现在，在调查的收尾阶段，根据证据或者说由于我们无法找到某些确凿证据，我们认为更有可能的是，加雷思死亡时没有他人在场。”
After three years of investigation, Mr. Hewitt said, “many questions remain unanswered.”
休伊特说，经过三年调查，“还有很多问题没找到答案”。
He said there was no evidence that Mr. Williams’s apartment on Alderney Street in the Pimlico neighborhood — close to the headquarters of the Secret Intelligence Service, where he had been working — had been “deep-cleaned,” a term used for the removal of forensic traces by intelligence operatives. There was also nothing to suggest a struggle or a break-in, he said.
他说，并无证据表明威廉斯位于皮米里科地区奥尔德尼街的公寓——他供职的秘密情报局(Secret Intelligence Service)总部附近——经过“深度清理”，这里指的是情报人员移除作案痕迹的行为。他说，这里也没有挣扎和破门而入的痕迹。
Though the police did not themselves demonstrate that it was possible for a person to lock himself inside a bag, Mr. Hewitt said, they saw video of this being done.
休伊特说，虽然警方自己无法证明一个人能把自己锁在袋子里，但他们却在视频中看到有人成功做到了这一点。
Why Mr. Williams would have done so was not entirely clear. The 2012 coroner’s inquest heard evidence that he had visited websites dedicated to bondage and claustrophilia, which involves seeking sexual thrills from being shut in enclosed spaces.
警方并不完全清楚威廉斯这样做的原因。验尸官2012年的调查发现，有证据表明他曾访问关于捆绑性虐和幽居癖的网站，这些都与关在密闭的空间里寻求性刺激有关。
Mr. Williams’s family said in a statement on Wednesday that they stood by the coroner’s findings — that he was probably the victim of an unlawful killing — rather than those of the police.
威廉斯的家人周三在声明中称，他们赞同验尸官的结论——他或许是被谋杀的——而不同意警方的说法。
“We are naturally disappointed that it is still not possible to state with certainty how Gareth died, and the fact that the circumstances of his death are still unknown adds to our grief,” the family said. “We consider that, on the basis of the facts at present known, the coroner’s verdict accurately reflects the circumstances of Gareth’s death.”
“目前仍无法确定加雷思的死因，这一点自然让我们深感失望；而且围绕着他的死亡的诸多情况仍不明确，这让我们更加悲伤，”威廉斯的家人称，“我们认为，根据目前已经掌握的证据，验尸官的结论准确地反映了加雷思的死亡情况。”