BRUSSELS — Two suicide bombers who carried out deadly attacks on Tuesday in Brussels have been identified as brothers with criminal records, Belgian officials said on Wednesday. The toll from the assaults, at the city’s main airport and at a subway station in central Brussels, stood at 31 dead and 270 injured.
布鲁塞尔——比利时官员周三表示，两名周二在布鲁塞尔制造致命袭击的自杀式炸弹携带者已被确认为兄弟，他们此前有犯罪记录。这次在布鲁塞尔的主要机场和市中心地铁站发生的袭击事件已导致31人死亡、270人受伤。
The brothers — Ibrahim el-Bakraoui, 30, and Khalid el-Bakraoui, 27 — were both Belgian and had a criminal history, but they had no known links to terrorism until the authorities conducted a raid on March 15 on an apartment in the Forest district of Brussels as part of the investigation into the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris.
这两个兄弟是30岁的易卜拉欣·巴克劳伊(Ibrahim el-Bakraoui)和27岁的哈立德·巴克劳伊(Khalid el-Bakraoui)，他们都是比利时人，且有犯罪历史，但直到当局作为调查去年11月13日巴黎袭击事件的一部分，于3月15日在布鲁塞尔森林区的一所公寓进行了一次突袭之前，他们并没有与恐怖主义的任何已知联系。
Ibrahim and another man blew themselves up at the airport at 7:58 a.m. — in two explosions, nine seconds apart — and then Khalid carried out a suicide attack at the Maelbeek subway station, around an hour later, Frédéric Van Leeuw, the Belgian federal prosecutor, said at a news conference. It was not immediately clear whether Khalid had also participated in the airport attacks.
比利时联邦检察官弗雷德里克·范·莱乌(Frédéric Van Leeuw)在新闻发布会上说，易卜拉欣和另一名男子于早上7点58分在机场将自己引爆，在9秒钟的时间里制造了两起爆炸事件，约一小时后，哈立德在马尔比克(Maelbeek)地铁站制造了自杀袭击。目前尚不清楚哈立德是否参与了机场的袭击。
Belgium observed a minute of silence at noon on Wednesday. The nation remained in a state of mourning and on the highest state of alert. The airport — which is being treated as a crime scene — remains closed. Many subway lines were not running. The Maelbeek station, where about 20 people were killed, remained shut. Some schools were open. But many employees stayed home.
比利时全国在周三中午默哀一分钟。这个国家仍处于哀悼和最高警戒状态。作为犯罪现场的机场仍然关闭着。许多地铁线路停止运行。约有20人死亡的马尔比克地铁站依然关闭。有些学校未停课。但许多员工仍未出家门。
An intensive hunt continued for a man who was recorded by a security camera alongside Ibrahim el-Bakraoui at the airport on Tuesday and who is believed to have fled. The identity of a third man in the footage was not clear.
密集的追捕仍在持续，目标是周二被机场的一个安全摄像头录下来的、在易卜拉欣·巴克劳伊身边的男子，该人据认在逃。录像中第三人的身份尚不明确。
The police raided a building in the Anderlecht neighborhood of Brussels on Wednesday. Officers in hazmat suits carted out files and plastic boxes from the building, while masked officers stood guard outside. Two police officers in the neighborhood said an arrest had been made, but the identity of the person arrested was not clear.
警方周三对布鲁塞尔安德莱赫特居民区的一栋建筑物进行了突击搜查。穿着防护有害物品套装的警察用车从建筑物中运走了文件和塑料盒，同时还有带着面罩的警察站在门外守卫。该居民区的两名警察说已有人被逮捕，但尚不清楚被逮捕者的身份。
Since Friday, Belgian authorities have been searching for Najim Laachraoui, a suspect who has been linked to the Paris attacks in November. Whether Mr. Laachraoui was involved in the attacks on Tuesday is not clear.
自上周五以来，比利时当局一直在寻找与去年11月的巴黎袭击有关的嫌疑人纳吉姆·拉沙劳伊(Najim Laachraoui)。拉沙劳伊是否参与了周二的袭击尚不清楚。
Several Belgian news outlets reported last week that the Bakraoui brothers had been wanted since the March 15 raid. It was not clear why the authorities had not asked the public to help find them.
几家比利时新闻媒体上周报道说，巴克劳伊兄弟在3月15日的突袭后受到通缉。目前还不清楚当局为什么没有要求市民协助警方找到他们。
Khalid el-Bakraoui is believed to have rented the apartment in Forest under a false name, and another in Charleroi, Belgium. The raid in Forest turned up fingerprints belonging to Salah Abdeslam, who was captured on Friday and is suspected of having participated in the Paris attacks.
哈立德·巴克劳伊据认用假名在森林区租了那所公寓，并在比利时的沙勒罗瓦租了另一所公寓。森林区的突袭发现了属于萨拉赫·阿卜杜勒萨拉姆(Salah Abdeslam)的指纹，他已于上周五因涉嫌参加巴黎袭击而被抓获。
Ibrahim el-Bakraoui was sentenced to nine years in prison in 2010 for shooting at police officers after the attempted robbery of a currency exchange office.
易卜拉欣·巴克劳伊曾在2010年被判处9年徒刑，原因是他试图在一个货币兑换处抢劫未遂后，向警察开枪。
In 2011, Khalid el-Bakraoui was convicted on charges of attempted carjacking; at the time of his arrest, he had been in possession of assault rifles.
2011年，哈立德·巴克劳伊曾被判犯有企图劫车罪；他被逮捕时身上带有突击步枪。
Mr. Laachraoui’s DNA was found on at least one of the suicide belts used in the Paris attacks and at a house in the Schaerbeek district of Brussels, according to Claude Moniquet, a former intelligence official in France and the co-founder of a Belgium-based think tank, the European Strategic Intelligence and Security Center. In Schaerbeek, the police found traces of the explosive TATP and believe suicide vests may have been assembled there, he said.
拉沙劳伊的DNA曾在巴黎袭击使用的至少一条自杀腰带上被发现，也在布鲁塞尔斯哈尔贝克区的一所房子中被发现过，据法国前情报官员克劳德·莫尼克(Claude Moniquet)说，他也是比利时一家名为欧洲战略情报和安全中心(European Strategic Intelligence and Security Center)的智库的联合创始人。他说，警方在斯哈尔贝克发现了爆炸物TATP的痕迹，警方认为自杀炸弹背心可能是在那里组装的。
The Belgian federal prosecutor’s office said that a raid Tuesday afternoon in Schaerbeek turned up “an explosive device” and “chemical products,” but it was not immediately clear if TATP was among them.
比利时联邦检察官办公室表示，周二下午在斯哈尔贝克进行的突袭找到了“一个爆炸装置”和“一些化工产品”，但目前不能马上得知TATP是否是其中的一种。
Speaking on La Première radio on Wednesday morning, Interior Minister Jan Jambon said that police raids would continue, and that the threat status would remain at its highest level, 4.
比利时内务部长扬·让邦(Jan Jambon)周三上午在La Première广播电台上说，警方将继续搜捕工作，恐怖威胁警戒将保持在最高的四级。
“There are many hypotheses to put on the table,” he said. “It’s up to investigators to sort out fact from fiction.”
“有很多各种各样的假说，”他说。“要由调查者来决定哪些是事实、哪些是编的。”
Mr. Jambon discounted speculation that the attacks were reprisals for the arrest of Mr. Abdeslam, saying it was unlikely that terrorists “could have launched attacks of a scale seen yesterday in two, three days.”
让邦认为这次袭击事件是对阿卜杜勒萨拉姆被捕的报复的猜测不可信，并表示，恐怖分子不太可能“在两、三天里就能制造出昨天那种规模的袭击”。
Speaking later to RTL radio, Mr. Jambon said it was unlikely that the attacks could have been avoided if Belgium had been at the highest threat level instead of Level 3, which was imposed after the Paris attacks.
让邦后来在RTL广播电台上说，如果在巴黎袭击后，比利时的恐怖威胁警戒状态进入最高级别、而不是三级的话，也不大可能避免这次袭击的发生。
“We were at Level 3; that means the probability is enormously elevated,” he said, adding that Belgium had “everything possible in place to avoid a catastrophe like what happened yesterday, like other countries.”
“我们进入了三级；这意味着概率大大升高，”他说，并补充说，比利时“像其他国家一样”采取了“一切可能的办法来避免像昨天发生的那种灾难”。
Mr. Jambon added, “A zero risk is not going to happen.”
让邦补充道，“零风险是不可能的。”
“Level 4 is when we have information that an attack will occur at a certain moment, in a certain place,” he continued. “We did not have that information.”
他继而说，“四级警戒是在我们有某个时刻、某个地点将发生袭击的信息时发布。而我们未曾有过这方面的信息。”