IN recent weeks, two major medical organizations have issued independent warnings about toxic chemicals in products all around us. Unregulated substances, they say, are sometimes linked to breast and prostate cancer, genital deformities, obesity, diabetes and infertility.
最近几周，有两家主要医疗机构发布了独立警告，内容涉及我们身边的产品含有的有毒化学物质。他们称一些不受管制的物质有时与乳腺癌、前列腺癌、生殖器畸形、肥胖、糖尿病和不育有关。
“Widespread exposure to toxic environmental chemicals threatens healthy human reproduction,” the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics warned in a landmark statement last month.
“广泛接触有毒化学物质环境对人类生殖健康形成了威胁，”妇产科国际联合会(International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics)上个月在一份具有里程碑意义的声明中警告说。
The warnings are a reminder that the chemical industry has inherited the mantle of Big Tobacco, minimizing science and resisting regulation in ways that cause devastating harm to unsuspecting citizens.
该警告提醒人们，化工行业沿袭了“大烟草公司”的做法，无视科学，抵制监管，对不知情的公众造成毁灭性的危害。
In the 1950s, researchers were finding that cigarettes caused cancer, but the political system lagged in responding. Now the same thing is happening with toxic chemicals.
20世纪50年代，研究人员发现香烟致癌，但政界在这个问题上反应滞后。现在，同样的事情又发生在有毒化学物质上。
The gynecology federation’s focus is on endocrine disrupters, chemicals that imitate sex hormones and often confuse the body. Endocrine disrupters are found in pesticides, plastics, shampoos and cosmetics, cash register receipts, food can linings, flame retardants and countless other products.
妇产科国际联合会的警告侧重在内分泌干扰素上，这是指模仿性激素的化学物质，往往可以“欺骗”身体。农药、塑料、洗发水和化妆品、收银机小票、食品罐头内衬、阻燃剂和无数其他产品中都含有内分泌干扰素。
“Exposure to toxic chemicals during pregnancy and lactation is ubiquitous,” the organization cautioned, adding that virtually every pregnant woman in America has at least 43 different chemical contaminants in her body. It cited a National Cancer Institute report finding that “to a disturbing extent babies are born ‘pre-polluted.’”
“怀孕和哺乳期间接触有毒化学物质的情况很普遍，”该组织警告说，它称美国几乎所有孕妇身体内都存在43种不同的化学污染物，并援引了美国国家癌症研究所(National Cancer Institute)的报告称“婴儿在出生前就遭遇到污染的程度令人不安。”
This warning now represents the medical mainstream. It was drafted by experts from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, the World Health Organization, Britain’s Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and similar groups.
这个警告现在代表着医疗界的主流观念。起草它的专家来自美国妇产科联合会、美国生殖医学协会(AmericanSociety for Reproductive Medicine)、世界卫生组织(WHO)、英国皇家妇产科学院(Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists)以及类似组织。
Such medical professionals are on the front lines. They are the ones confronting rising cases of hypospadias, a birth defect in which boys are born with a urethra opening on the side of the penis rather than at the tip. They are the ones treating women with breast cancer. Both are conditions linked to early exposure to endocrine disrupters.
这些医疗专业人士都在第一线工作。他们亲眼看到了尿道下裂病例的增加，这是一种出生缺陷，男孩在出生时尿道开口在阴茎的一侧而不是顶端。他们的患者中包括患有乳腺癌的女性。两种疾病都与早期接触内分泌干扰物有关。
The other major organization that recently issued a warning is the Endocrine Society, the international association of doctors and scientists who deal with the hormone system.
近期发出警告的另一个主要组织是内分泌学会( Endocrine Society)，这是个国际协会，由主治和研究激素系统的医生及科学家组成。
“Emerging evidence ties endocrine-disrupting chemical exposure to two of the biggest public health threats facing society — diabetes and obesity,” the Endocrine Society said in announcing its 150-page “scientific statement.” It added that “mounting evidence” also ties endocrine disrupters to infertility, prostate cancer, undescended testicles, testicular cancer, breast cancer, uterine cancer, ovarian cancer and neurological issues. Sometimes these problems apparently arise in adults because of exposures decades earlier in fetal stages.
“越来越多的证据显示，干扰内分泌的化学物质和社会面临的两个最大公共健康威胁有关——糖尿病和肥胖，”内分泌学会在发布这份150页的“科学声明”时表示，“越来越多的证据”也将内分泌干扰素和不孕、前列腺癌、隐睾症、睾丸癌、乳腺癌、子宫癌、卵巢癌以及神经性问题联系在一起。有时侯，成年人出现这些问题似乎是因为他们几十年前在胎儿阶段接触到了干扰内分泌的化学物质。
“The threat is particularly great when unborn children are exposed,” the Endocrine Society warned.
“当未出生的孩子接触到它们的时候，威胁尤其严重，”内分泌学会警告称。
Tracey J. Woodruff of the University of California, San Francisco notes, “One myth about chemicals is that the U.S. government makes sure they’re safe before they go on the marketplace.” In fact, most are assumed to be safe unless proved otherwise.
加州大学旧金山分校的特蕾西·J·伍德拉夫(Tracey J. Woodruff)指出，“关于化学物质，大家误以为美国政府在它们走向市场之前，会确保它们安全性。”实际上在有证据证明它们不安全之前，大多数东西被视为是安全的。
Of the 80,000 or more chemicals in global commerce today, only a tiny share have been rigorously screened for safety. Even when a substance is retired because of health concerns, the replacement chemical may be just as bad.
在全球商业如今使用的8万种或更多化学物质中，只有很小一部分经过了严格的安全筛选。而且，即使由于健康原因而禁用了某种物质，取而代之的化学物质可能也会同样糟糕。
“It’s frustrating to see the same story over and over,” Professor Woodruff said. “Animal studies, in vitro tests or early human studies show that chemical A causes adverse effects. The chemical industry says, ‘Those are bad studies, show me the human evidence.’ The human evidence takes years and requires that people get sick. We should not have to use the public as guinea pigs.”
“看到同样的事情一再发生，令人灰心丧气，”伍德拉夫说。“动物研究、体外试验和早期人体研究表明化学物质产生了不利影响。化工行业说，‘那些研究不怎么好，把人体证据拿给我看看。’人体证据需要多年的时间，需要人们生了病才会有。我们不应该把公众当作小白鼠。”
Europe is moving toward testing chemicals before they go on the market, but the United States is a laggard because of the power of the chemical lobby. Chemical safety legislation now before the Senate would require the Environmental Protection Agency to start a safety assessment of only 25 chemicals in the first five years — and House legislation isn’t much better.
欧洲正在改变做法，在化学物质进入市场前进行测试，而美国由于化学公司的大力游说，在这方面落在了后面。目前参议院在考虑的化学物质安全立法要求，国家环境保护局(Environmental Protection Agency)要在头五年对仅仅25种化学物质进行安全评估——众议院的立法也好不到哪里去。
“There are almost endless parallels with the tobacco industry,” says Andrea Gore, a professor of pharmacology at the University of Texas at Austin and editor of the journal Endocrinology.
“这和烟草业几乎一模一样，”德克萨斯大学奥斯汀分校(University of Texas at Austin)的药理学教授安德烈·戈尔(Andrea Gore)说。他也是《内分泌》(Endocrinology)杂志的编辑。
For now, experts say the best approach is for people to try to protect themselves. Especially for women who are pregnant or may become pregnant, and for young children, try to eat organic, reduce the use of plastics, touch cash register receipts as little as possible, try to avoid flame-retardant couches and consult the consumer guides at ewg.org.
专家说，现阶段最好的办法是让人们尽量保护自己。尤其是怀孕或可能怀孕的女性，以及年幼的孩子，尽量吃有机产品，减少塑料使用，尽可能少触摸收银机小票，避开阻燃剂，遵循ewg.org上消费者指南的建议。
The chemical lobby spent the equivalent of $121,000 per member of Congress last year, so expect chemical companies to enjoy strong quarterly profits, more boys to be born with hypospadias and more women to die unnecessarily of breast cancer.
去年的化工游说花费相当于在每个国会议员身上用了12.1万美元，因此可以预见，化工企业每季度可以获得相当丰厚的利润，而更多的孩子将出现尿道下裂，更多的女性会因乳腺癌死亡，这本来是可以避免的。