Hamburg — TRAVELING through the chilly landscape around the arctic city of Murmansk, Russia, it quickly becomes clear that this barren region is, in fact, a strategic centerpiece in President Vladimir V. Putin’s vast armory. The overland road from the Norwegian border passes by miles and miles of double-row fences of ice-crowned barbed wire, warning signs and surveillance cameras. Many of the gray, silent settlements along the way appear to be less towns than military installations, with soldiers in long, thick coats trotting through the streets.
汉堡——在俄罗斯北极城市摩尔曼斯克四处探访那里的冰天雪地的时候，很快就能明白，这片不毛之地实际上是俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)庞大武库中的战略性重器。沿着从挪威边境出发的陆上公路走来，旁边是绵延不断被冰雪覆盖的双排铁丝网、警示牌和监控摄像头。沿途有一些灰蒙蒙的僻静定居点，其中许多看起来，与其说是村镇，还不如说是军事设施，有穿着厚厚的长外套的军人在街头快速穿行。
But to grasp the full military import of this place, the Kola Peninsula — Russia’s northwestern-most territory — you would have to look down on it with thermal imaging from high above. Instead of ice, you would see a long stretch of land bathing in the relatively warm waters of the Gulf Stream. The Kola Peninsula is a gigantic marine pier, guaranteeing Russia’s naval fleet access to the Atlantic and offering a hub for operations in an area of the world that might well become the next crisis zone between Russia and NATO: the North Pole.
不过，要想充分了解这片土地的军事意义，必须从上空借助热成像技术俯视。这里是位于俄罗斯最西北端的科拉半岛，此时你不会看到冰雪，而是会看到一长条陆地浸泡在相对温暖的湾流之中。科拉半岛是一座巨大的海上码头，保障俄罗斯海军舰队可进出大西洋，并在很可能成为俄罗斯与北约(NATO)之间下一个冲突区域的地方提供了一处行动中心，而这个区域就是北极。
The area around the pole is not yet divided up among its adjacent states. Its waters — and potentially rich natural resources — are claimed by Russia, as well as by three NATO members: America, Denmark (via Greenland) and Canada. Many of these claims overlap.
临近各国尚未能将北极周边区域进行分割。北极水域可能拥有丰富的自然资源，而俄罗斯和北约的三个成员国——美国、丹麦（通过格陵兰岛）和加拿大——均对其宣示了主权。其中许多领土主张存在重叠。
It’s not a purely lawless region: The United Nations Law of the Sea includes rules for settling such claims, largely based on how far the continental shelf of the respective country extends below the sea. These rules are supported by the White House, but they have yet to be ratified by the United States Congress, because Republicans are reluctant to leave the decision over America’s economic borders to a United Nations body.
北极并非完全是法外之地：《联合国海洋法公约》中规定了解决此类领土主张的原则，主要基于各个国家洋底的大陆架延伸到哪里。这些原则得到了白宫的支持，但尚未获得美国国会的批准，因为共和党人不愿将有关美国经济边界的决定权交到联合国机构的手中。
Some Republicans are convinced that, after the invasion into Ukraine, Russia’s military buildup in the High North is preparation for yet another land grab. “The Russians are playing chess in the Arctic and our administration still seems to think it’s tick-tack-toe,” said Senator Dan Sullivan, Republican of Alaska, accusing the Obama administration of a “strategic blunder.”
一些共和党人深信，入侵乌克兰之后，俄罗斯在最北方的军事建设是在为再次谋夺土地做准备。“俄罗斯人正在北极下一盘很大的棋，而奥巴马政府还认为那是儿戏，”来自阿拉斯加的共和党参议员丹·沙利文(Dan Sullivan)说。他指责奥巴马政府犯下了“战略大错”。
Whatever his intent, President Putin has indeed ordered the Russian military to increase its capabilities in the North. Russia is building six new bases, refurbishing old runways from the Cold War era, constructing new icebreakers, and putting modern submarines with nuclear warheads into service.
无论意欲何为，普京的确下令俄罗斯军队增强在北方的实力。俄罗斯在建造六座新基地、翻新冷战时期的老跑道、建造新的破冰船，并陆续让搭载核弹头的多艘现代化潜艇下水。
Few know for sure just how symbolically important the North Pole is to Mr. Putin. In 2007, the Kremlin had a submarine place a metal Russian flag on the seabed, right at the pole. Was it just a photo op? Legally, the gesture no more makes the pole Russian than Neil Armstrong’s 1969 flag makes the moon American.
没有什么人确切地知道北极对普京的象征性意义究竟有多大。在2007年，克里姆林宫让一艘潜艇到北极点对应的海床上插了一面金属俄罗斯国旗。这不过是拍张照片做做宣传吗？法律上，此举并不会让北极成为俄罗斯领土，就像尼尔·阿姆斯特朗(Neil Armstrong)于1969年在月球上插的那面旗子并不会令其成为美国领土一样。
Then again, the Arctic presents a huge strategic opportunity for Mr. Putin to make gains against the West. Russia, the largest country on earth, has one big geostrategic disadvantage: limited access to the world’s oceans. Its Black Sea fleet, stationed in Crimea, could in case of conflict be denied passage through the Bosporus, whose gatekeeper, Turkey, is a NATO member. Mr. Putin’s Baltic fleet would meet the same obstacle in the Skagerrak, the strait between Denmark and Norway. But the Arctic is open territory — and, in a time of melting ice caps, open sea as well.
不过，北极呈现了一个巨大的战略性机遇，可以让普京获得利益，并打击西方。俄罗斯是地球上面积最大的国家，但它在地缘战略上有一个比较大的劣势：通往世界大洋的途径有限。在发生冲突的情况下，俄罗斯驻扎在克里米亚半岛的黑海舰队可能会被拒绝通过博斯普鲁斯海峡，因为把守这条海峡的土耳其是北约成员国。在丹麦和挪威之间的斯卡格拉克海峡(Skagerrak)，普京的波罗的海舰队也会遇到类似的阻碍。但北极是一片开放区域——在冰盖融化的时候，更是开放的水域。
The Russians, of course, see things differently. Policy makers and analysts in Moscow say Russia is not on the offensive, but on the defensive. NATO has repeatedly proved that it doesn’t stick to international rules, Nikita Lomagin, a professor of political science at the European University at St. Petersburg, told me. Thus, he said, Mr. Putin does not believe he can count on “soft security” alone. And the modernizing of the Northern Fleet, with its nuclear-missile submarines, was partly a reaction to NATO’s missile defense shield.
当然，对此俄罗斯的看法有所不同。莫斯科的政策制定者和分析人士表示，俄罗斯不处在进攻状态，而是处于守势。圣彼得堡欧洲大学(European University at St. Petersburg)政治学教授尼基塔·洛马金(Nikita Lomagin)告诉我，北约已经多次证明，它不会死守国际规则。他说，因此普京不相信自己可以完全依赖“软性安全”。而北方舰队(Northern Fleet)的现代化，及其可以发射核导弹的潜艇，在一定程度上正是针对北约建立导弹防御屏障做出的反应。
Both sides might be justified; that’s not the point. A Russian proverb says that the past is unpredictable. And indeed, the “Arctic pivot” is reviving Cold War stereotypes at a time when East-West communication is practically nonexistent. Russians and the West should bear in mind how easily political uncertainties can become rigid convictions.
双方或许都有道理；但这不是重点。有一句俄罗斯谚语说，过去是不确定的。此言不假，“转向北极”的确是在重启冷战的模式化观念，而且在当下，东西方几乎不存在交流。俄罗斯和西方应该谨记，政治上的不确定性是多么容易变成固化的信念。
Confidence-building measures — treaties, regular dialogue, joint commissions on global challenges — helped defuse one Cold War. We need new measures, now. The world can’t expect Mr. Putin to take the first steps, so it’s up to America to show sobriety and to avoid giving Russia any pretext for military action. Moscow’s propaganda machinery performed masterfully in the Ukraine crisis; it can easily do so again. For the United States, ratifying the Law of the Sea would be one splendid pre-emptive strike.
建立信任的措施——订立条约、经常性对话和联合应对全球挑战的组织机制——帮助化解了一次冷战危机。我们需要现在就采取新的措施。这世界不能指望普京主动迈出第一步，所以就要靠美国表现出冷静的一面，避免给俄罗斯提供任何采取军事行动的借口。在乌克兰危机期间，莫斯科的宣传机构处理得非常巧妙；它可以很容易地再来一次。对美国而言，让《联合国海洋法公约》正式获得通过，将是绝妙的先发制人之举。