CHARLOTTE, N.C. — With the city staggered by two nights of violent protests after the fatal police shooting of a black man, the Charlotte, North Carolina, police chief said Thursday that a video of the episode did not definitively show the victim, Keith L. Scott, pointing a gun.
北卡罗来纳州夏洛特——一名黑人被警方枪杀的事件在北卡罗来纳州夏洛特市引发了连续两晚的暴力抗议。警察局长周四称，关于枪击事件的一段视频未明确显示受害者基思·L·斯科特(Keith L. Scott)当时有举枪动作。
The chief, Kerr Putney of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg police, said that while he had no plans to release the video of the shooting to the public, he did intend to show it to Scott’s family, at their request.
夏洛特-梅克伦堡警察局(Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department)局长克尔·帕特尼(Kerr Putney)说，虽然他并不打算把枪击视频向公众公开，但会应斯科特家人的请求让他们观看视频。
“The video does not give me absolute, definitive, visual evidence that would confirm that a person is pointing a gun,” Putney said at a news conference, though he has said that witness accounts and evidence suggest that this is what happened.
帕特尼在新闻发布会上表示，“视频未能提供能够确认一个人正举枪的绝对确凿的目视证据”，不过他说目击者的陈述和物证显示这是事实。
The protests began Tuesday night after Scott, 43, was shot by Officer Brentley Vinson, who is also black, while police were serving a warrant on someone else. Starkly different accounts have emerged about what happened: Police say Scott was holding a gun before he was shot; friends and family say it was a book. Though it does not offer definitive proof on its own, the video supports the official version of events, Putney said.
现年43岁的斯科特被同为黑人的警员布伦特利·文森(Brentley Vinson)枪杀，当时警方正在追捕另一个人，抗议活动随后于周二晚上爆发。各方对事发经过有着截然不同的描述：警方说斯科特遭枪击前持有一把枪；斯科特的朋友和家人说警方在编故事。帕特尼说，那段视频本身虽然未能提供确凿的证据，但却为官方说法提供了佐证。
“When taking in the totality of all the other evidence, it supports what we’ve heard and the version of the truth that we gave about the circumstances that happened that led to the death of Mr. Scott,” Putney said.
“综合其他所有证据，这符合我们听到的信息以及我们就导致斯科特先生死亡的事发经过所做的描述，”帕特尼说。
He said the department’s practice was not to release video to the public, to protect the integrity of investigations. And, in this incident, he said, the case may soon be out of his hands.
他说警察局的惯常做法是，为了保证调查的公正性，不向公众公开视频。至于本案的情形，他说，案子可能很快就不归他管了。
“Even though we’re investigating, we probably won’t be long term,” he said, citing a request that the FBI take over the inquiry. “I’m not going to release anything that would be on somebody else to release.”
“尽管我们正在调查，但很可能不会长期调查下去，”他说联邦调查局(FBI)已请求接手调查工作。“我不会公开任何将由其他人决定是否公开的东西。”
Attorney General Loretta Lynch said that the Justice Department and FBI were monitoring events in Charlotte.
司法部长洛蕾塔·林奇(Loretta Lynch)说，司法部和联邦调查局正密切关注夏洛特市的事件。
The comments from Putney and Lynch followed a chaotic night of gunfire, tear gas and arrests in Charlotte’s city center.
帕特尼和林奇发表评论后，夏洛特市中心迎来了一个混乱的夜晚，子弹和催泪弹齐飞，一些人被逮捕。
On Wednesday night, a man was gravely wounded during a demonstration. City officials described the episode as a “civilian on civilian” confrontation, but some protesters accused the police of opening fire. On Thursday he remained in critical condition.
周三晚上，一名参加游行示威的男子受了重伤。市政府官员将事件描述为“平民对平民”的冲突，但一些抗议者指责警方曾开火。他在周四仍处于危急状态。
Nine other civilians were injured, two officers suffered “relatively minor” eye injuries, and three officers were treated for heat-related issues, officials said. Authorities made 44 arrests.
官员称，另有9名平民受伤，两名警员的眼部受了“相对较轻”的伤，三名警员因与高温有关的问题就医。当局逮捕了44人。