SEOUL, South Korea — Samsung Electronics, the world’s biggest smartphone maker, summoned investors to a luxury hotel here Wednesday to tell them why they should buy its stock. Despite a promise of more cash and other goodies, some investors left grumbling that it was not enough.
韩国首尔——全球最大的智能手机制造商三星电子(Samsung Electronics)周三将投资者召集到一家高级酒店，告诉他们为什么应该购买公司的股票。虽然公司承诺提供更多的现金回报和其他好处，但一些投资者离开时仍抱怨公司做得还不够。
Samsung said it would double its dividend, increase spending on acquisitions and consider a listing of its stock in the United States, through American depositary receipts. The measures were aimed at lifting the stock price, which slumped this summer on concerns that Samsung’s days of minting profits from the lucrative smartphone business may be drawing to an end.
三星说，公司将加倍股息红利，增加用于收购的开支，并考虑通过美国存托凭证将其股票在美国上市。这些措施旨在提高公司股票的价格，由于人们担心三星在利润颇丰的智能手机行业继续赚钱的日子即将结束，公司股价在今年夏天曾大幅下跌。
The share price “does not fully reflect our profit growth and our leadership position in the I.T. industry,” said Lee Sang-Hoon, the company’s chief financial officer. “Going forward, we will put more emphasis on direct shareholder returns while maintaining our strategy of growth.”
三星首席财务官李尚勋(Lee Sang-Hoon)说，公司股票的价格“没有完全反映出我们的利润增长，以及我们在IT行业的领导地位。未来，在保持我们增长策略的同时，我们将更加注重对持股人的直接回报。”
Yet the announcements failed to squelch complaints that Samsung was being stingy with the roughly $50 billion pile of cash it has amassed. As Mr. Lee and other Samsung executives spoke at a rare “analyst day” — only the second in the company’s history and the first since 2005 — Samsung’s stock price fell, ending the day down 2.3 percent.
但是这些宣布未能让人们不再抱怨三星的吝啬，公司拥有的大笔现金已接近500亿美元（约合3050亿元人民币）。就在李尚勋和三星其他执行官在公司少有的“分析师日”里讲话之际，三星的股价仍在下跌，当日交易结束时下降了2.3%，这次“分析师日”是三星历史上的第二次，也是自2005年以来的第一次。
At the meeting, executives laid out their vision for Samsung’s future, saying they would fine-tune a strategy that has helped the company carve out a one-third share of the global smartphone business. That is more than double the volume of Samsung’s nearest competitor, Apple.
在这次会议上，执行官们给公司的未来开列出他们的远景计划，称他们将对公司的战略作出微调，该战略曾帮助三星在全球智能手机市场夺得三分之一的份额，该份额是与三星最接近的竞争对手苹果公司(Apple)的市场销售量的两倍还多。
Executives said Samsung’s strength lies in the fact that it is a diversified electronics company, making everything from smartphones to televisions to washing machines, as well as many of the parts that run them, executives said. While many rivals, including Apple, outsource the supply of components and the manufacturing of phones and other devices, Samsung sees its in-house capabilities as a source of strength.
执行官称，三星的优势在于，公司是一个多样经营的电子设备公司，生产的产品包括智能手机、电视机、洗衣机，以及这些设备所需的零部件。虽然包括苹果在内的很多竞争对手都将零部件的生产、以及手机和其他设备的制造外包出去，但三星认为，自己的内部制造能力是一种优势。
For a company of its size and financial wherewithal, Samsung has been conservative, relying largely on internal sources of growth, rather than dealmaking. But Samsung said it would spend more on mergers and acquisitions, as it responds to what Mr. Lee described as a “paradigm shift” in the information technology business, where the focus of innovation is shifting from hardware, Samsung’s traditional specialty, to software.
对于一个具有如此规模和财力的公司来说，三星一直比较保守，主要依赖内部资源实现增长，而不是通过交易。但是三星称，作为对李尚勋所描述的信息技术行业出现的“范式转移”的回应，公司将增加用于兼并与收购的开支，这种转移指的是创新点正从硬件转向软件，而硬件是三星的传统强项。
Over the last few years, Samsung has already begun to spend modestly as it seeks to develop new sources of growth, buying companies like Medison, which makes medical devices, and mSpot, a provider of digital music.
过去几年中，随着公司寻找新的增长点，三星已开始适当地花钱，收购了一些公司，比如医疗器械制造商麦迪逊(Medison)和数码音乐提供商mSpot公司。
“I know we have been conservative in M&A, but it may be different in the future,” Mr. Lee said. He and other executives said it made sense to hold on to cash in order to maintain a war chest for mergers or other investments needed to keep Samsung ahead of the competition.
李尚勋说，“我知道我们在兼并与收购上一直比较保守，但未来可能会有所不同。”他和其他执行官都说，公司持现金是有道理的，这样才能保证有用于兼并或其它让公司在竞争中处于领先地位投资的专款。
To try to make its stock more attractive, Samsung intends to roughly double its dividend for this year to 1 percent of the average share price, Mr. Lee said. The dividend would be payable next year, pending board approval.
李尚勋说，为了让公司的股票更有吸引力，三星打算把今年的股息增加大约一倍，达到平均股价的1%。红利将在明年支付，现在还有待董事会批准。
A 1 percent dividend yield would bring Samsung roughly into line with other companies in the electronics industry, analysts said, though this would still be below the levels of some of its rivals. Apple, for example, currently has a yield of about 2.3 percent.
分析人士说，1%的股息收益率将让三星与电子设备行业其他公司的股票收益保持一致，但仍低于三星公司一些竞争对手的股票收益水平。比如，苹果目前的收益率为2.3%。
Mr. Lee said Samsung, which is based in Suwon, just south of Seoul, was also considering another step — a listing of American depositary receipts, which would make it easier for individual investors to buy its shares. Currently, Samsung stock is listed only in South Korea, where its market capitalization represents nearly one-fifth of the benchmark stock index.
李尚勋说，总部位于首尔以南水原市的三星也正在考虑下一步棋，那就是以美国存托凭证的形式上市，这将使个人投资者购买股票变得更容易。目前，三星只在韩国上市，其市场价值占到构成韩国基准股票指数公司总值的近五分之一。
Mr. Lee said international investors valued the increased transparency that would come with the regulatory requirements involved in listing American depositary receipts.
李尚勋说，三星通过美国存托凭证上市需要满足的法规要求将会增加公司的透明度，国际投资者很看重这一点。
But some investors had expected more, including a bigger increase in the dividend, or news of substantial stock buybacks, which tend to lift share prices by increasing the ownership stake of the remaining shares that are publicly held.
但是，一些投资者有更高的期待，包括股息红利更大幅度的提高，或是公司大量回购股票的消息，这常常会提高股票的价格，因为回购会增加公众手中继续持有的股票的股权分量。
“These are constructive steps, but Samsung obviously has more capacity to return capital,” said a portfolio manager at one of the biggest U.S. institutional investment firms, who insisted on anonymity, citing company policy.
“这些都是建设性的措施，但三星显然有能力提供更多的资本回报，”美国一家最大的机构投资公司的基金产品经理这样说，该人坚持不具名，称公司的政策不允许他这样做。
This fund manager said, however, that he was “very encouraged” to hear about Samsung’s plans to step up acquisitions.
但这位基金经理说，三星计划增加收购的消息对他来说是“极大的鼓舞”。
“This is very new and different,” he said. “There are a lot of rich targets out there. As always, it’s a question of execution.”
他说，“这是个新打算，和过去的很不一样。有许多很好的目标。不过和以往一样，要看怎么做了。”
Samsung still expects much of its growth to come from internal innovation. For the first time, it showed analysts -- though not the assembled journalists -- a foldable video display screen that could be used in smartphones or other devices. Kwon Oh-Hyun, Samsung’s chief executive, said the company hoped to bring devices with foldable display screens to the market in 2015.
三星仍指望其大部分增长来自内部创新。它首次向分析师们展示了一个可折叠的视频显示屏，这种屏幕可用在智能手机或是其他设备上，但三星没有让与会的记者看到这个东西。三星首席执行官权五弦(Kwon Oh-Hyun)说，公司希望能在2015年向市场推出具有可折叠屏幕的设备。
Some analysts are concerned that the premium end of the smartphone market, dominated by devices like Samsung’s Galaxy S4 and Apple’s iPhone 5S, is becoming saturated. That contributed to the sell-off in Samsung’s stock this summer, though the price has rebounded in the autumn.
一些分析师担心，三星Galaxy S4和苹果iPhone 5S占主导地位的高端智能手机市场正趋向饱和。这也是三星股价在今夏大跌的一个因素，不过公司的股票价格在秋季有所反弹。
But Mr. Kwon, sporting Galaxy Gear, a wristwatch that works as a companion to certain Samsung smartphones, said innovations like these would breathe new life into the high-end smartphone business. To try to underline the point, Samsung showed a video of celebrities like Paris Hilton wearing Galaxy Gear, though the watch has been met with less enthusiasm in the technology blogosphere than on the fashion catwalk.
但是戴着Galaxy Gear的权五弦说，类似的创新将会给高端智能手机行业注入新的活力，Galaxy Gear是一款能与某些三星智能手机一起工作的手表。为了强调这一点，三星还播放了一个视频，其中有像帕丽斯·希尔顿(Paris Hilton)等名人佩戴Galaxy Gear的片段，但这款手表在技术博客圈引起热情不如在时尚圈子里的高。
Samsung executives said the biggest growth in smartphones would come in developing countries, where smartphone penetration remains lower. Worldwide, the company said, there are still three billion basic “feature phones” in use.
三星的执行官说，智能手机最大的增长将会来自发展中国家，那些地方的智能手机普及率仍比较低。公司称，目前仍有30亿部基本“功能手机”在世界各地使用。
“We believe there is substantial room for smartphone demand to grow,” said J.K. Shin, head of Samsung’s mobile division.
三星移动部门部长申宗均(J.K. Shin)说，“我们认为智能手机还有很大的增长空间。”
Mr. Shin said the company also intended to increase its market share in tablet computers, where it still trails Apple. Other executives even painted a bullish picture on televisions and home appliances, in which sales have been growing slowly or shrinking in recent years.
申宗均说，三星还打算增加其平板电脑的市场份额，三星在平板电脑市场份额上仍落后于苹果。其他执行官甚至还为电视和家用电器市场勾画出一个乐观的前景，这些产品的销售量最近几年增长缓慢、或有所下降。
Samsung said it intended to nearly double its annual revenue, which it expects to total $211 billion this year, to $400 billion in 2020.
三星称其计划将公司年度收入增加近一倍，预计今年的总收入将达到2110亿美元，到2020年要增加至4000亿美元。
But this was not enough to persuade some investors.
但是，这都不足以说服某些投资者。
“Broadly speaking, the market is a bit disappointed,” said Byun Han Joon, an analyst at KB Investment & Securities in Seoul.
KB投资证券公司(KB Investment & Securities)驻首尔的分析师卞涵俊（Byun Han- joon，音译）说，“泛泛地说，市场对三星有点失望。”
But Mr. Byun said he thought investors who sold Samsung shares on the news Wednesday were taking too short-term a view. He noted that the company, in addition to moving to lift the dividend, had also pledged to review its policy on cash returns in the future. That could indicate that other increases in the dividend, or buybacks, were possible.
但卞涵俊说，他认为周三听到消息之后抛售了三星股票的投资者目光过于短浅。他指出，三星除了计划要增加分红外，还承诺在未来重新考虑其现金回报政策。这表明存在再次增加分红或公司回购股票的可能性。
“You could certainly say they improved their policy on investor friendliness today,” Mr. Byun said.
卞涵俊说，“你可以肯定地说，今天他们改善了他们对投资者友好的政策。”