In the aftermath of the attack at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris, the Cairo bureau chief David D. Kirkpatrick wrote a front-page article about debates over the connection between violence and Islam. Here he describes the care involved in writing about an inherently fraught subject and why it seemed important to address the questions.
在讽刺性报纸《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)位于巴黎的办公室遭到袭击后，《纽约时报》开罗分社社长戴维·D·柯克帕特里克(David D. Kirkpatrick)撰写了一篇头版文章，谈论了各方就暴力事件与伊斯兰教之间的关系所产生的争论。本文中，他讲述了为写作这个沉重的主题所倾注的心血，以及解决这些疑问的重要意义何在。
After the killing of 132 schoolchildren by the Pakistani Taliban last month, my editor, Michael Slackman and I started talking about the reactions among non-Muslim Americans. The world had watched the bloody rise of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. Now horrific violence under the banner of Islam seemed to be breaking out around the world.
上个月，巴基斯坦塔利班(Pakistani Taliban)杀害了132名小学生后，我的编辑迈克尔·斯莱克曼(Michael Slackman)开始和我讨论非穆斯林美国人的反应。全世界都看到了伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)的血腥崛起。如今，打着伊斯兰旗号的恐怖暴力活动，似乎在世界各地此起彼伏。
Michael said he heard many non-Muslims Americans wondering whether Islam was inherently violent — or simply asserting as fact that it was (Bill Maher comes to mind). We decided to report an article of some kind providing an honest, informed, head-on examination of the question. At the risk of sounding grandiose, it struck us both as a public service.
迈克尔说，他听到许多非穆斯林美国人在追问，是不是伊斯兰教本身就是暴力的，有人甚至直接认定事实就是如此（我想起了比尔·马厄[Bill Maher]）。于是我们决定写一篇文章，对这个问题进行一次诚恳、直率、有理有据的审视。虽然听起来可能有些宏大，但我们两人都把这看做是一种公众服务。
But the subject is a minefield, and never more so than in the aftermath of a heinous crime committed in the name of Islam like the assault this week in Paris.
然而，这个话题是一个雷区。本周暴徒以伊斯兰教的名义在巴黎犯下十恶不赦的罪行之后，这个话题显得越发敏感。
Many Muslims find the question itself bigoted. Such violence is alien to their understanding of their faith, and in the end, the meaning of any religious tradition exists in the minds of its adherents as much as in any texts. The Jewish and Christian religious traditions include plenty of violence, and so does their history. Nor should we discount the social or political grievances that might drive someone to use a religion as a pretext for violence.
许多穆斯林认为这个问题本身就存有偏见。这样的暴力，与他们对自己信仰的理解也是格格不入的，而且归根结底，任何宗教传统的意义都不仅存在于文本里，同样存在于信徒的思想中。犹太教和基督教的传统中包括许多暴力内容，他们的历史中也是。我们也不应该漠视可能驱使某些人以宗教为借口，发起暴力行动的社会或政治上的不公。
At the same time, many Muslims acknowledge that those inclined to find religious justifications for violence find plenty to work with in the contemporary discourse of Islam. And whatever the historical grievances that might fuel extremism, nothing can justify the killing of innocent civilians. Some people I interviewed were anxious about even discussing the broader subject because they worried their comments might look like a defense of the Charlie Hebdo attackers. Not much could be more offensive.
与此同时，许多穆斯林承认，那些倾向于在宗教中为暴力寻找合理性的人，在当代的伊斯兰话语中找到了足够的素材。无论是什么样的历史不公激发了极端主义，也没有什么能成为杀害平民的理由。我采访的一些人甚至对谈论这个宽泛的话题感到不安，因为他们担心自己的言论可能听起来像是对《查理周报》袭击者的辩护。没有什么比这更让人恼火的了。
“Whatever we write, we are going to get it from all sides,” I told a colleague as we set out to report the story.
“无论我们写些什么，我们都会倾听各方的声音，”当我们开始做这篇报道时，我对一名同事这样说。
We decided the best way to address Islam’s connection to political violence was to ask how Muslims are answering that question here in Cairo, a historic center of the Islamic world. The same questions, in various forms, have percolated for months through talk shows and newspaper columns here in Egypt. And it has also apparently been on the mind of President Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi. He happened to give a speech touching the subject earlier this week, calling for a top-down “revolution” in the practice of Islam, which became a focal point of the article.
我们认为，讨论伊斯兰教与政治暴力之间联系的最好方式，就是在开罗，伊斯兰世界具有历史意义的中心，看这里的穆斯林会对这个问题给出怎样的答案。在埃及，这些疑问数月来以各种各样的形式，在脱口秀和报纸专栏中被活跃地讨论。埃及总统阿卜杜勒·法塔赫-塞西(Abdel Fattah el-Sisi)似乎也在考虑这个问题。本周早些时候，他刚好发表讲话谈到了这个话题。他呼吁在伊斯兰教的实践中，开展一场自上而下的“革命”，这后来成为了我那篇文章中关注的焦点。