Not long after 2 a.m. last Sunday, some 30 photographers and friends swept the downtown dust off two walls that closed in a small but busy street near São Paulo’s Luz subway station. They had just slathered glue onto several large photos and were about to paste them onto the walls when the police showed up and asked what they were doing.
上周日凌晨2点刚过，约30名摄影师和他们的朋友将圣保罗市内卢斯地铁站附近一条繁忙小街旁的两面墙上的灰尘扫下来。他们给几幅大照片涂上胶水，正要将它们贴在墙上时，警察过来问他们在干什么。
“We’re putting up photographs,” the photographer Mauricio Lima said to the two officers. “Photography is not a crime.”
摄影师毛里齐奥·利马(Mauricio Lima)对这两名警官说，“我们在张贴照片。摄影又不违法。”
No, but it is complicated. A group called FotoProtestoSP was posting the images publicly, scenes from the demonstrations and clashes that swept through Brazil earlier this year. They wanted to make sure the protests would not be forgotten as people went about their daily, and rushed, routine.
不违法，但很复杂。一个叫做FotoProtestoSP的组织正在公开张贴照片，展示今年早些时候席卷巴西全国的抗议和冲突的画面。他们希望人们不要在每天的匆忙中忘却这些抗议活动。
Sunday’s installation of 26 4-by-5-foot images was halted after two hours of negotiations — and a side trip to the local precinct headquarters — when the police couldn’t figure out which of their divisions had to grant the group permission. Though the photographers’ work is not confrontational, it is an occupation — of public space and, more important, people’s minds. In a city where people stop for little, the group wants people to slow down and think about where they — as a nation — are going.
经过两个小时的谈判，还到该区的警察局去了一趟之后，周日要张贴26张约1.21x1.52米尺寸图片的活动被叫停，因为警察搞不清楚究竟哪个部门该给这个组织发放许可。这些摄影师的活动虽然不具有对抗性，但却是一种“占领”，它将占用公共空间，更重要的是会占领人们的意识。在一个人们不愿停下脚步的城市，这个组织希望人们能放慢脚步，想一想他们作为一个国家该走向何方。
“It was a process of occupying the city with photography,” said Mr. Lima, a freelance photographer for The New York Times. “And, because it is an artistic intervention, it didn’t even come to mind for us that getting permission would be necessary for this to happen.”
为《纽约时报》担任自由职业摄影师的利马说，“这是一个用照片占领城市的过程。由于这是一场艺术干预，我们甚至都没有想过为此要申请批准。”
During the early days of protest in June, citizens had shown their anger and outrage in numbers that topped a million across the country, with São Paulo’s crowd peaking at 65,000. The city’s Independence Day protest in September brought only 2,000 to the streets, a small figure not just in comparison to the number moved to action in the city just three months before, but also to its population of more than 11 million.
在6月份抗议活动发生的最初几天里，全国有100多万公民陆陆续续地表现出了愤怒和愤慨，圣保罗聚集的人群在高峰期曾达到6.5万。而该市在9月份举行的独立日抗议活动中，只有2000人走上了街头，与仅仅三个月前的抗议人数相比相去甚远，与该市1100万人口相比更是少之又少。
That dwindling number of voices holding the government accountable is what drove Mr. Lima and the others to come up with the idea of an open-air exhibit of photos they took that captured some of São Paulo’s most powerful moments during the movement against corruption. Hoping to keep the people’s spirit of protest alive, the group’s members, mostly freelance photojournalists, set out to use their images to show support for the protests and to make sure what finally pushed people over the edge was not forgotten.
正是因为要对政府问责的人越来越少，利马和其他人才想出这个办法，即公开张贴他们在圣保罗反腐败运动期间捕捉到的最有震撼力的画面。该组织成员大多数是自由职业摄影记者，他们希望让人们的抗议精神永葆生机，于是决定用自己拍摄的照片来表示对抗议的支持，确保最终推动人们走上街头抗议的事情不被忘却。
Their first installation was at São Paulo’s massive Araçá Cemetery in early September. Usually off-white and unnoticed, the cemetery wall, blackened by dust kicked up by the heavy traffic that passes by on busy Doctor Arnaldo Avenue, became an art exposition on the night of Sept. 7.
他们的第一次活动9月初在圣保罗庞大的阿拉萨公墓举行。这个墓地原来米白色的不起眼的墙壁被阿纳尔多博士大街的车水马龙带来的灰尘染成黑色，可这里在9月7日晚上变成了一个艺术展区。
The photographers laid their works of art face down on the sidewalk, covering the backs with swirls of glue and spreading it, corner to corner, with the palms of their hands. They picked up the photos and smoothed them onto the wall, following the measurements already taken to make sure they were stuck on straight. The group moved quickly, rolling more glue over each photo as they covered the blank space.
这些摄影师将自己的艺术作品正面朝下放在人行道上，在照片背面抹上胶水，然后用手掌将胶水从一个角向另一角涂开。然后他们将照片捡起来贴到墙上，按照已经量好的尺寸确保照片平整而位置正确。一组人动作很快，在一张又一张照片背后抹上胶水，逐渐覆盖整个空白空间。
While the photos at Araçá were taken down three days after they were put up — reportedly because of preparations for a coming religious feast day — the group found a new space to display 26 more photos for the street by the Luz subway station.
虽然阿拉萨的照片在张贴三天后就被取了下来（据说是因为要为即将到来的宗教节日做准备），但这个组织在卢斯地铁站附近的路上又找到一个地方，可以张贴另外26张照片。
“The priority is public walls with high visibility so that the photos can be seen by as many people as possible, by pedestrians, drivers in cars and people taking the bus,” Mr. Lima said.
利马说，“我们最先考虑的是很容易被看到的公共墙面，这样张贴的照片就能被尽可能多的人看到，步行者、驾车者、以及公交车乘客。”
The Independence Day protest act can still be seen online, along with video pieces recounting stories behind the photos and the process of the exhibit’s creation.
独立日抗议活动依然可以在网上看得到，还有一些描述这些照片背后故事和展览创建过程的视频片段。
And it has not all been in vain. Two days after the photos from the first visual protest went up, FotoProtestoSP’s Facebook page jumped to 1,500 followers, and 5,500 people had read its manifesto. Now, the group has more than 2,800 likes, and affiliated groups are starting to organize in Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte.
这一切不全是徒劳。在第一次视觉抗议照片张贴两天之后，FotoProtestoSP的Facebook页面关注者达到1500人，有5500人看过他们的宣言。现在，这个组织已经被赞了2800多次，其附属组织正开始在里约热内卢和美景市组织起来。
The São Paulo group even captured the reactions of people passing by the wall during its first exhibit, showing how the photos grabbed the attention of even the fastest-paced Paulistas, who generally stop for nothing.
这个圣保罗的组织甚至还在第一次展览时抓拍了路人的反应，显示出这些照片是如何引起了甚至是节奏最快的圣保罗人的注意，他们一般不愿为任何事情停下脚步。
Mr. Lima and the other group members meet weekly to discuss their coming projects and are in the process of raising money through crowdsourcing.
利马和其他组织成员每周聚在一起讨论未来的项目，他们正通过“众包”(crowdsourcing)方式募资。
The photographers and their works will eventually return to the cemetery wall, and Mr. Lima says they will display a new set of photos each month, with plans already in motion for them to last at least until the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.
这些摄影师和他们的作品最终将回到墓地的墙壁，利马说他们将每月展示一组新照片，目前计划将这些照片至少保留到2014年巴西举行世界杯足球赛时。
“It was and has been a historical moment of struggle, and we have to return to the streets what they gave us,” Mr. Lima said. “We fully agree with those in the streets. It is a mutual commitment with a society that fights for a country that calls for the reduction of social inequality and political decency, especially in Congress. The flame of the protests’ positive spirit cannot be put out.”
利马说，“这曾是，也一直是斗争的历史性时刻，我们必须把他们给予我们的返还街上。我们与上街抗议的人意见完全相同。这是一个社会的共同承诺，全社会正在要求减少社会不公平和弘扬政治道德（尤其是在国会中），为国家做到这一点而抗争。抗议的积极精神之火不能被熄灭。”