We spend too much time sitting around. It’s true. Luckily the same smartphones that often keep us sitting down can also encourage us to get up and walk more by tracking our steps.
我们坐的时间实在太长了。这是事实。好在那些总是让我们静坐不动的智能手机也可以通过记录大家的步数，鼓励我们站起身来，多走走。
Apple’s iPhone 5S is the smartphone pedometer king because it has a special M7 chip that can continuously track movement without draining the battery. There are many apps that hook up to this chip. The Moves app, $3 on iOS, is my favorite because of its minimal design.
苹果(Apple)的iPhone 5S是智能手机计步王，因为它内含一个特殊的M7芯片，可以在不耗电的情况下持续追踪使用者的动作。有很多应用程序都利用到这个芯片。我最喜欢的是Moves应用（iOS系统，3美元），因为它的设计极其简洁。
The display of Moves is simple yet colorful, with a colored circle that counts your steps daily. The more steps you take, the bigger the circle, so it’s easy to see at a glance how well you’re doing.
Moves的界面简单却色彩丰富，使用一个亮丽的圆圈记录你每天的步数。你走的步子越多，这个圈就越大，所以一眼就能望见你今天的表现如何。
Beneath this counter is a simple graphic of where you took steps, and whether they were made during walks or runs. Tapping the place icon in the infographic will give you a more detailed map. Swiping across the display takes you to data from previous days. The app can also show how many calories you’ve burned and how far you’ve walked in total — a figure that often surprises me, because I can churn out a mile or so even inside my own home.
在圆圈下方有个简单的图表，显示你在哪里迈步，这些算是步行还是跑步。点击图表里的位置图标，你能看到更详细的地图；轻扫显示屏则能看到前些天的数据。这个应用还能显示你总共燃烧了多少热量，已经走了多少路——这个数字常常能让我吓一跳，因为我没想到光是在自己家里走路，也能走上一英里甚至更远。
And that’s it! It’s deliciously simple and I rely on Moves’ notifications to remind me to make an extra effort on a particular day. Best of all, thanks to the M7 chip, I don’t even have to have the app running for it to collect data — it runs completely in the background. There are one or two hiccups, though: When I was skiing, the app thought I was cycling. It also thinks you were running when you were walking, throwing off the calorie count. But you can always manually correct the activity type.
就是这样！Moves确实简单易用，而且我依靠它来提醒我在特定的某一天更加努力。最好的一点是，多亏了M7芯片，我甚至不需要打开这个应用来收集数据——它可以完全在后台运行。不过，它也有一两个小毛病：在滑雪时，这个应用认为我在骑自行车。当你在走路时，它会觉得你在跑步，于是慷慨地算出过多的热量消耗。但你可以人工修正运动类型。
In its newest version, the app has more than 60 extra activity types, but most are not automatically recognized and must be chosen by hand. Moves also works on iPhones other than the 5S and on many Android units. (It is free on Android.) The app may consume more battery when used on phones other than the 5S.
Moves最新的版本拥有60多种活动类型，不过大部分无法自动识别，需要手选。这个应用也可以在除5S以外的iPhone机型和很多安卓手机上使用。（在安卓上它是免费的。）不过在5S以外的手机上使用也许更加费电。
A similar free app for iOS and Android that measures walks in more detail is Map My Walk. The app is elegantly designed, making it simple to use even though it contains many options and presents a lot of data. For example, the app tracks your location by GPS, it wirelessly syncs with popular heart rate monitors and will speak out loud to prompt you as you walk on your progress. I don’t use it because I prefer a simpler count of my walking habits, and I’m not overly fond of Map My Walk’s interface. But you may like its extra data because it may help you keep on top of your walking regimen.
在iOS和安卓上，有个类似的免费应用可以记录更多步行细节，这是Map My Walk。这个应用的设计优雅，虽然含有多个选项，呈现大量数据，但操作起来仍然很简便。比方说，这个应用可以通过GPS追踪你的位置，通过无线网络跟很多常见的心率追踪器同步，也可以在你持续步行时发出提示音。我没有用这个应用，因为我喜欢简单计步，也不是特别青睐Map My Walk的界面。但你也许会喜欢它提供的额外数据，因为它或许你能让你坚持步行的好习惯。
The popular fitness app brand Runtastic also offers the free Runtastic Pedometer app on Android and iOS. It’s similar in terms of function and interface to Map My Walk, without the location-tracking system. The interface is plain, and this sort of no-nonsense look may appeal. I love the fact that you can tag each day’s data with a little icon to say how you felt or what the weather was like, but the spartan look of the app doesn’t appeal to me.
流行健身应用品牌Runtastic也在安卓和iOS上提供了免费的Runtastic Pedometer应用。在功能和界面上这款应用跟Map My Walk相仿，只是没有定位系统。它的界面很简单，这种直切主题的设计也许会十分对一些人的胃口。你可以点击每天数据旁边的一个小图标，记录你当天的心情或者天气，这一点我很喜欢，不过它严肃的外表不是很讨我的欢心。
Simplest of all is the free Pedometer++ app. It is only for iPhone 5S phones, and is pretty to look at and functional. Its interface is even more basic than Moves app. The Pedometer app just keeps a tally of your daily step count versus a target you set. The results are then shown as a number and simple graph. I love the fact that it sticks a badge on the app’s icon on the home screen that shows you your step count. This means you don’t have to even open the app!
功能最简单的是免费的Pedometer++应用。它只能在iPhone 5S上使用，看起来蛮漂亮，功能性十足。它的界面甚至做得比Moves更基础。这款应用只记录你每天的步数，并与你设定的目标步数相对比。结果用数字和简单的图表来显示。我喜欢它的一点是，甚至不需要打开应用，它就可以直接在手机主屏上显示出你已走的步数。
For Android users, a rough equivalent to Pedometer++ is the well-regarded free app Accupedo Pedometer. The app has a relatively clear interface, and tracks steps and distance walked and calories burned. It also has a great Android widget so you can pin your walking data to the home screen for quick review without having to open the app. It’s also available for iOS, but the iPhone version lacks the widget capability.
对于安卓用户，一个跟Pedometer++大致相仿的应用是广受好评的免费应用Accupedo Pedometer。这款应用的界面相对更干净，可记录你的步数、步行里程和燃烧的热量。它还有个非常棒的安卓窗口小部件，所以不需要打开应用，你便可以在主屏幕上迅速了解自己的步行数据。它在iOS上也有，不过iPhone版本没有窗口小部件功能。
I’ve used apps like these to make sure I walk more than 10,000 steps a day. This number of steps is generally considered to help you keep fit and burn off a few extra calories, and I’ve definitely noticed that it has helped how I look and feel.
我使用这类应用确保自己每天走至少1万步。人们普遍认为，每天走1万步可以强身健体，燃烧更多热量，而我确实发现，它有助于提升我的形象和自我感觉。
Path, the popular social networking app, has been upgraded on Android devices to a new version. Path is all about engaging meaningfully with a small group. The new edition also lets you share short video clips. It’s free.
另外，流行社交网络应用Path的安卓应用已经升级。Path可以让你与一个小团体实现更有意义的交流，这个新版本能让你分享短视频。它是免费的。