LONDON — Ernst Barlach was one of Germany’s great Expressionist artists of the early 20th century. A virulent nationalist in the run-up to World War I, Barlach found that his experience of the Western Front stripped him of his jingoism. Much of his subsequent work explored the sorrow and suffering that he saw as the human condition.
伦敦——恩斯特·巴拉赫(Ernst Barlach)是20世纪初伟大的德国表现主义艺术家。在第一次世界大战前，他是狂热的民族主义者，但在西线的经历，彻底改变了他的侵略主义观念。之后他的很多作品，都对他眼中的悲伤和苦难这些人性的根本部分进行了探索。
In 1927, he created for the cathedral in Güstrow, a small town north of Berlin, a war memorial called Der Schwebende (“the Floating One”). The sculpture featured a figure with a haunted, grief-stricken face cast in bronze and suspended from the ceiling, as if hovering, angel-like, over the fields of Flanders. Ethereal and transcendent, the memorial is far from the monumental structures that usually commemorate the fallen, and yet captures so starkly the loneliness and terror of war.
1927年，他为柏林北部小城居斯特罗的大教堂创作了一座战争纪念雕像，名为《飞翔的天使》(Der Schwebende)。这座雕像用青铜铸成，人物面部表情恍惚而悲痛，悬挂于天花板上，犹如天使徘徊在佛兰德斯战场的上空。纪念阵亡者的雕像通常结构庞大，但《飞翔的天使》与众不同，它空灵而超然，却又如此彻底地捕捉到了战争带来的孤独和恐怖。
In 1937, the Nazis declared Der Schwebende “degenerate” and later melted down Barlach’s work to make munitions for the next war. Thankfully, a new figure was cast from a secret copy, and after World War II it was installed at Güstrow, which then stood in the eastern half of the divided Germany.
1937年，纳粹宣布《飞翔的天使》是“堕落”作品，后来把它熔化，用来制造二战的弹药。值得庆幸的是，人们用它的一个秘密复制品铸造了一座新雕像，二战之后，它被悬挂在居斯特罗，当时那里属于东德。
Last year, after much debate, the congregation of Güstrow Cathedral agreed to lend the statue to the British Museum in London to help the process of reconciliation during the centenary of World War I. Barlach’s angel now floats above the museum’s new exhibition on German history.
去年，居斯特罗大教堂的会众经过激烈争论，同意把这个雕像借给伦敦大英博物馆(British Museum)，在第一次世界大战爆发百年之际，为和解进程提供帮助。巴拉赫的天使，目前在大英博物馆新推出的德国历史展上飞翔。
This show, “Germany: Memories of a Nation,” which opened last week on the 25th anniversary of Germany’s reunification, tells the story of Germany through a series of objects that range from a copy of Martin Luther’s first German Bible, to the gates of Buchenwald concentration camp, to a fragment of the Berlin Wall, pulling together the threads of both civilization and barbarism that make up the nation’s history.
上周，在德国统一25周年之际，这个名为“德国：一个国家的回忆”(Germany: Memories of a Nation)的展览拉开了帷幕。从马丁·路德(Martin Luther)的第一本德文《圣经》，布痕瓦尔德集中营的大门，到柏林墙的一块碎片，它通过一系列展品来讲述德国的故事，汇集了文明与野蛮这两种构成德国历史的元素。
How, asks the exhibition, can anyone understand a nation’s history when burned into our gaze is a darkness as unfathomable as the Holocaust? And how can a nation’s identity be reconstructed after such an episode?
这个展览问道：当大屠杀这种深不可测的阴暗面抓牢了大家的视线，人们怎样才能理解一个民族的历史？在那样的事情发生之后，一个国家怎样才能重建自己的身份？
These are questions with which Germany has wrestled for the past seven decades. But they are equally important to Britain. Britain possesses a particularly myopic view of German history — one that reveals a deep lack of self-awareness about its own history.
过去70年中，德国一直在与这些问题纠缠不休。但对英国来说，这些问题也同样重要。英国对德国的历史特别短视，这表明，英国对于自己的历史非常缺乏自我认识。
“Two world wars and one World Cup,” runs a popular English soccer slogan. (England won the 1966 World Cup on home soil, beating Germany in the final. England has never reached a final since, whereas Germany has since won the tournament three times, most recently this year.)
在英国足球界，“两次世界大战和一个世界杯”是一个很流行的口号。（英格兰1966年以东道主身份赢得世界杯，在决赛中击败德国。但在那之后，英格兰队再也没能进入决赛，德国队却已经三次夺得冠军，最近一次就在今年。）
The slogan sums up Britain’s attitude toward Germany over much of the past half-century and more. Britain’s part in the Allied victory over Hitler’s Germany was its last act as a true world power. That historical moment provided both a means of accessing a seemingly glorious past to buttress a less than glorious present, and a precious asset in promoting a sense of what it still meant to be British.
这个口号概括了过去小半个世纪以来，英国对德国的态度。英国参与的盟军，战胜了希特勒统治的德国，这是它作为一个真正世界大国的最后绝响。那个历史性的时刻，既提供了一个看似辉煌的过去，​​来巩固一个不那么辉煌的现在，又提供了一份宝贵的资产，来宣扬作为“英国人”意味着什么。
So baiting Germany about defeat, whether on the battlefield or the soccer pitch, became as much part of being British as drinking tea or complaining about a wet summer. From a constant diet of World War II films on TV to excruciating jokes about vacationing Germans always seizing the best lounge chairs by the pool, anti-German chauvinism was stitched into British culture.
所以，谈论德国在战场上或是足球场上的失败，就像饮茶、抱怨夏季多雨一样，成了“英国人”生活的一个元素。从电视上不断播放的二战片，到度假的德国人总是占据游泳池边最好躺椅的难堪玩笑，反德沙文主义已融入了英国的文化。
Both the idea of Britishness and Britain’s sense of itself in the world have, however, been transformed in recent decades. The old-fashioned notions of race and empire in which British identity was traditionally rooted have been all but eradicated.
但是，最近几十年来，英国特色以及英国对自己在世界中位置的意识，都出现了巨变。英国身份历来植根于种族和帝国观念，但现在这些老式看法几乎已被完全根除。
The recent debate over Scottish independence and its implications for England have brought the very idea of Britishness into question. A corollary of this change is that in place of the old “Kraut bashing,” Britons have gradually developed a less antagonistic view of Germany. Even as anti-German chauvinism has softened, though, Britain has remained myopic about the place of Germany — and of Britain itself — in history.
最近对于苏格兰独立，及其对英国来说意味着什么的争论，已经对英国特色的观念提出了质疑。这种变化的一个必然结果是，英国人放弃“奚落德国”的做法，培养了一种对德国较为亲善的观念。但是，即便反德沙文主义已经软化，英国对德国和本国在历史上的位置仍然很短视。
A century ago, most educated Britons would have had a deep appreciation of German history, music, philosophy and literature. Today, the role of Germans from the Enlightenment to Modernism in constructing our very conception of the world is barely acknowledged and little understood.
一个世纪以前，受过教育的英国人，大多对德国历史、音乐、哲学和文学非常了解。从启蒙运动到现代主义，德国在构建我们世界观中的作用，如今不仅极少得到认可，而且基本上也没有人了解。
It is not just German history about which Britain lacks insight. While the enormity of the Holocaust has forced Germany to address the darkest aspects of its past, Britain has never had to think about its history in that fashion. From the Opium Wars to the Bengal famine, the shameful episodes of Britain’s imperial past are rarely discussed.
英国缺乏洞察力的地方不仅是德国历史。尽管大屠杀的暴行迫使德国正视其历史中最阴暗的方面，英国却从来没有像那样思考过自己的历史。从鸦片战争到孟加拉饥荒，大英帝国过去不光彩的行为极少获得讨论。
Perhaps nowhere is this blind spot more obvious than in the current debate about World War I. There has been much discussion in Britain about the role of German militarism and imperial ambitions in fomenting war. Rarely acknowledged is that all the great powers of the time had expansionist aims; that in the decades leading to the war, they had carved up the globe among them; that at the center of the global imperialist network stood not Germany but Britain.
关于这个盲区，最明显的地方也许是，目前英国对于一战时，德国军国主义及其帝国主义​​野心在煽动战争方面起到的作用，开展了很多讨论。极少有人承认，当时所有的大国都有扩张目标；在一战爆发之前的几十年里，这些列强瓜分了全世界；而当时全球帝国主义网络的中心不是德国，却是英国。