On Wednesday morning, May Zhang, a tourist from Shanghai, was outside the Louvre using a selfie stick to snap photographs with a friend. The courtyard is normally packed with tourists, but they had it mostly to themselves — and to the dozen or more heavily armed police officers pacing in the background.
周三上午，来自上海的游客梅·张(May Zhang)在卢浮宫外用自拍杆和一个朋友自拍照片。通常那里挤满了游客，但当时基本上只有他们两个——以及背景那十几个全副武装的警察。
“We aren’t too worried,” said Ms. Zhang, 36, a sales manager who began her first trip to Paris just days after assailants killed 129 people and wounded hundreds of others. “I think security is now at a very high level,” she added, not long after the police finished a raid in St.-Denis, a northern suburb of Paris, in which at least two people, including a female suicide bomber, died, and eight people were arrested.
“我们并不太担心，”36岁的张女士说。她是销售经理，这是她第一次到巴黎，几天前恐怖袭击者在巴黎杀死129人，杀伤数百人。“我觉得现在的安全系数是特别高的，”她说。之前不久，警察在巴黎北郊圣但尼开展了突袭活动，逮捕八人，至少两人死亡，其中包括一名携带自杀式炸弹的女子。
Museums and cultural institutions were closed last weekend by executive order, and movie theaters shut until Sunday. This week, the places that make Paris one of the world’s great cultural capitals have been slowly coming back to life, and directors are hoping that residents and visitors alike will return. They say that they are more convinced than ever that culture is a form of resistance to terrorism — especially after militants opened fire at a rock concert — but that they are also navigating intense security concerns that have the city on edge.
博物馆和文化机构遵循政府要求，周末没有开门。电影院到星期天才开门。本周，这些让巴黎成为世界上最伟大的文化之都的地方，在慢慢恢复生机，管理者希望居民和游客能回来。他们说，他们比以往任何时候都更加相信，文化是抵抗恐怖主义的一种形式——尤其考虑到武装分子在一场摇滚音乐会上开了火——但他们也重视对安全的严重担忧。这种担忧让巴黎陷入了紧张不安。
“The difficulty is to reassure people about security, something very material, but also to communicate a collective message of unity and resistance,” said Marc-Olivier Sebbag, the director of the National Federation of French Cinemas, which instructed the 2,000 cinemas of France to bolster security at entrances and seek guidance from the police.
“担忧安全是很现实的事情，难的是既要安抚人们的这种担忧，又要传达团结和抵抗的整体讯息，”法国电影院联合会(National Federation of French Cinemas)负责人马克-奥利维耶·塞巴热(Marc-Olivier Sebbag)说。联合会指示法国2000家影院加强入口安全，并向警方寻求指导。
Theater directors said reopening was urgent. “Closing for two days was the maximum,” said Emmanuel Demarcy-Mota, the director of the Théâtre de la Ville, one of Paris’s premier avant-garde spaces, and of the Festival d’Automne, a season of cultural programming. “There was a shock, and it could be considered a kind of mourning, and people need silence,” he added. “But silence” — or staying home — “is a personal choice.”
剧院经理们说，重新开放剧院是很迫切的事情。“最多关闭两天，”伊曼纽尔 ·德摩西-莫塔(Emmanuel Demarcy-Mota)说。他是巴黎首屈一指的前卫剧院巴黎市立剧院(Théâtre de la Ville)的经理，也是巴黎秋季艺术节文化节(Festival d’Automne)的负责人。“人们感到震惊，这可以被认为是一种哀悼，人们需要沉默，”他说。“但沉默”——或者待在家里——“是种个人选择”。
Still, ensuring the show goes on has not been easy. On Saturday, Mr. Demarcy-Mota had to get reassurances from the presidential palace that borders would be open and that France could guarantee the security of visiting artists, including crew members from the Schaubühne theater of Berlin driving from Germany to build the set for a production of “Oedipus the Tyrant,” directed by Romeo Castellucci. It will open as scheduled on Friday.
但确保节目继续上演并不容易。周六，德摩西-莫塔需要得到总统府的保证，即法国将会开放边境，而到访艺术家的安全能得到保障，其中包括从德国开车前来为罗密欧·卡斯泰卢奇(Romeo Castellucci)导演的戏剧《暴君俄狄浦斯》(Oedipus the Tyrant)制景的柏林邵宾纳剧院(Schaubühne)工作人员。该剧将按照计划于周五上演。
Those involved in the city’s thriving theater culture have been undeterred, although attendance numbers are down. At the Théâtre des Abbesses on Tuesday, Sophie-Anne Descoubès, 45, attended a comic opera even after a friend decided not to join her. “I came by myself and had a glass of red wine in the cafe first,” she said, on the evening Parisians gathered in cafes, bars and restaurants as an act of defiance. Her friend stayed home “not out of fear, but she didn’t have the energy,” Ms. Descoubès added. “It’s the lack of energy that’s the issue.”
那些融入巴黎繁荣戏剧文化的人没有被吓住，尽管观众人数有所减少。周二，在阿贝斯剧院(Théâtre des Abbesses)，尽管朋友决定不与她一同前来，45岁的索菲-安妮·德库贝斯(Sophie-Anne Descoubès)还是看了一部喜歌剧。“我自己来的，先是在咖啡馆喝了杯红酒，”她说，巴黎人当晚聚集在咖啡馆、酒吧和餐厅，以此作为一种反抗。她的朋友留在家里，不是“因为恐惧，而是因为她没有精力”，她表示。“缺乏精力是问题所在。”
This week, Parisians faced a wearying sense of déjà vu that scattered, if rousing, choruses of “La Marseillaise” did little to leaven. It is a markedly different mood than the one in January, after Islamic extremists killed 17 people at the satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo and a kosher supermarket, when thousands took to the streets in solidarity rallies. The government’s new security measures bar people from assembling in large groups, although a few hundred people gathered privately for a vigil at the Place de la République in central Paris on Sunday night.
本周，巴黎人有一种令人厌烦的似曾相识的感觉，大街小巷在奏着《马赛曲》，尽管振奋人心，却无法让气氛活跃起来。这与一月的情形完全不同，当时伊斯兰极端分子袭击讽刺刊物《查理周报》办公室及犹太洁食超市，导致17人死亡，当时数千人一同走上街头，举行集会。政府的新安全举措禁止人们举行大规模集会，但数百人于周日晚间私下聚集在位于巴黎中心地带的共和国广场，举行守夜活动。
The measures also forbid school excursions, which the theater director Macha Makeïeff said she hoped would change as quickly as possible. This week, hundreds of schoolchildren could not see her production of Molière’s “Trissotin or the Learned Ladies” at the Théâtre La Criée in St.-Denis, the ethnically and economically mixed area where the raids took place on Wednesday morning.
相关措施还禁止学校安排短途出行。剧场导演马沙·马凯伊夫(Macha Makeïeff)表示，希望这种情况能尽快改变。本周，数百名小学生无法看到她改编自莫里哀的《特里索坦或才女》(Trissotin or the Learned Ladies)的作品在圣但尼(St.-Denis)拉克里耶剧院(Théâtre La Criée)上演。圣但尼是一个族群和经济都较为复杂的地区，周三上午的突袭便发生在那里。
The attacks “strengthen our conviction of the importance of theater in cities, and notably in cities like St.-Denis, in cities like Marseille,” Ms. Makeïeff said. “Because what joins us is stronger than what divides us.”
袭击“让我们更加相信戏剧在城市，尤其是在圣但尼和马赛这样的城市所占据的重要地位，”马凯伊夫说。“因为让我们团结一心的东西，比分隔我们的东西更强大。”
The attacks have many cultural institutions wondering how to shape young hearts and minds to become humanists, not terrorists. “An attack on a theater, on young people, is very symbolic,” said Stéphane Lissner, the director of the Paris Opera. “It’s to attack that culture.” He added that the French “need to reflect in a much broader way about how that culture is diffused and who has access to it.”
袭击促使很多文化机构思考，如何影响年轻人的思想和灵魂，让他们变成人道主义者，而非恐怖分子。“对剧院，对年轻人的攻击非常具有象征意义，”巴黎歌剧院(Paris Opera)院长斯特凡纳·利斯纳(Stéphane Lissner)说。“这是为了攻击那种文化。”他接着表示，法国人“需要更广泛地反思这种文化的传播方式和传播对象”。
Mr. Lissner said the opera, where the ballet “La Bayadère” opened as scheduled on Tuesday, had not decided how to bolster security in the long term. (The police presence there has increased after the attacks.) Metal detectors can do only so much. “You have a kamikaze element of unpredictable barbarity, so it’s hard to know how efficient these would be,” he said.
利斯纳称，定于周二上演芭蕾舞剧《神殿舞姬》(La Bayadère)的巴黎歌剧院尚未决定如何从长期加强安保。（袭击后，剧院的警力增加了。）金属探测器效果有限。“有些无法预测的暴行中具有自杀性质，因此很难知道这些措施效果如何，”他说。
Jack Lang, the president of the Institute of the Arab World, a cultural center in Paris, and a former minister of culture and of education, said the institute would increase its programs of films, music, exhibitions and talks in Paris’s economically troubled suburbs and across France. The arts are “an arm against ignorance and violence,” he said.
阿拉伯世界研究所(Institute of the Arab World)是巴黎的一个文化中心。该所所长、前文化和教育部长贾克·朗(Jack Lang)表示，研究所将在经济困难的巴黎郊区以及全国各地增加电影、音乐、展览和讲座活动。他说，艺术是“对抗无知和暴力的武器”。
With the attacks on Friday still fresh — and fears of a new assault strong — distributors again postponed the release of “Made in France,” directed by Nicolas Boukhrief, a fictional film about terrorist attacks on Paris. Its release had already been delayed after the Charlie Hebdo shooting in January. Over the weekend, posters for the movie, which feature a machine gun superimposed on the Eiffel Tower, were removed from the subway.
人们对周五的袭击仍记忆犹新，非常担心会再次发生袭击。在这种情况下，发行方再次推迟了《法国制造》(Made in France)的上映。这是一部虚构的影片，由尼古拉·布赫里夫(Nicolas Boukhrief)执导，故事讲述的是巴黎遭遇恐怖袭击。在1月的《查理周报》(Charlie Hebdo)枪击事件后，影片的上映就推迟过一次。周末，该片的海报被从地铁沿线撤下。海报上，一挺机关枪架在埃菲尔铁塔上。
At movie theaters, ticket sales for some blockbusters, including the new James Bond film, “Spectre,” which opened in France on Nov. 11, were down. Some bigger events were canceled, including the French premiere of Steven Spielberg’s “Bridge of Spies,” set for last Sunday, The Hollywood Reporter said.
在电影院里，一些大片，包括11月11日在法国上映的最新一部詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)影片《幽灵党》(Spectre)的票房呈下降趋势。《好莱坞报道》(The Hollywood Reporter)称，一些大型活动被取消，包括定于上周日举行的史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)《间谍之桥》(Bridge of Spies)在法国的首映式。
Many galleries here that had participated in Paris Photo, an annual photography fair at the Grand Palais that opened on Nov. 12 and was to run until last Sunday before it was canceled, announced that those exhibitions would be shown at their galleries on Nov. 28 and 29.
一年一度的巴黎国际摄影节(Paris Photo)在大皇宫举行，11月12日开始，本来要持续到上周日，但后来被取消了。很多参加了该活动的美术馆宣布，将于11月28日和29日在各自的美术馆展出参展作品。
The Philharmonie de Paris, on the northeastern edge of the city, is running its full program of concerts and recitals this week, but with heightened security, including portable scanning devices. “At the Louvre, you can have the army patrolling around. But that’s not possible in a theater,” said Laurent Bayle, the director of the Philharmonie.
在巴黎东北的巴黎爱乐音乐厅(Philharmonie de Paris)，本周的音乐会和演奏会悉数上演，但安全措施升级，包括便携式扫描装置。“在卢浮宫，可能会有陆军在周围巡逻。但这一幕不可能发生在剧院，”爱乐音乐厅负责人洛朗·培尔(Laurent Bayle)说。
Jean-Luc Choplin, the director of the Théâtre du Châtelet, which helped produce “An American in Paris,” now on Broadway, said he wanted the theater to keep delighting audiences. “I won’t change the programming,” he said. “We do big theatrical shows. It’s about happiness, lightness, and people need that.”
参与制作了正在百老汇上演的《花都艳舞》(An American in Paris)的夏特莱剧院(Théâtre du Châtelet)院长让·吕克-肖普兰(Jean-Luc Choplin)表示，他希望剧院能继续让观众感到高兴。“我不会改变节目安排。这关系到快乐和轻松，人们需要这些。”
At the Pompidou Center on Wednesday morning, attendance was sparse. Lucca Tatoni and Tanya Abad were visiting from São Paulo, Brazil. “At first we really considered changing the trip, but at the end of the day, we said, ‘Let’s go,’ ” Mr. Tatoni, 23, said. Ms. Abad, 20, said she was glad to stop following the news for a little while and spend some time immersed in art.
周三上午的蓬皮杜中心(Pompidou Center)，游客稀少。卢卡·塔托尼(Lucca Tatoni)和丹耶·阿瓦德(Tanya Abad)是从巴西圣保罗来的。“刚开始，我们真的考虑过改变行程，但最后我们想，还是去吧，”23岁的塔托尼说。20岁的阿瓦德说，能有一小会儿不关注新闻，可以花点时间沉浸在艺术当中，这让她感到高兴。
“A museum is always a good idea,” she said.
“博物馆永远都是个好主意，”她说。