I learned long ago that the iPad’s game and video apps cast a magical spell over my children, but this summer I’ve also been pleased by how much they have learned while using their tablets. This is important, as my 4-year-old is going to “real” school for the first time. His reading skills, in particular, have been helped by some great apps. These have helped him move from knowing shapes and sounds of letters to actually reading words.
很久以前，我就知道iPad上的各种游戏和视频应用程序对我的孩子们施了魔法，让他们十分着迷。不过，他们在使用平板电脑的过程中学到了不少知识，这也让我在今夏十分满意。因为我那4岁大的孩子即将第一次去“真正的”学校读书，所以这一点非常重要。尤其是他的朗读技能，在一些出色应用程序的帮助下得到了提高。他以前只知道字母的形状和发音，有了这些程序的帮助，他竟然能够朗读单词了。
One of the most comprehensive apps for teaching reading is a free iPad app called Learn With Homer (not the Greek one or Mr. Simpson, you’ll be pleased to hear). It’s a set of lessons and games presented with bright cartoon graphics and amusing sounds.
其中一款教朗读最全面的应用程序是名叫“与荷马一起学”(Learn With Homer)的免费iPad程序——别担心，这位荷马既不是希腊诗人荷马，也不是辛普森一家里的辛普森先生。它由课程和游戏组成，并配有明亮的卡通图案和搞笑的声音。
Using animations and spoken guidance, the app leads children to sound letters that appear on the screen and shows how letters make words, using examples like “alligator” and “ant.” The app’s learning sections are interspersed with game sections, and there is a listening section where children read and hear stories. Completing a lesson or story is rewarded with the chance to draw something on the screen or to record an answer to a question about the story. The app’s best feature is that it keeps these pictures and recordings, because it is fun to look back on them.
该应用程序通过动画和语音指导，把孩子们的注意力带到屏幕上出现的配音字母，然后举例向他们演示这些字母是怎样组成单词的，比如“短吻鳄”(alligator)和“蚂蚁”(ant)。这款程序的学习部分穿插着各种游戏，同时还设有听力部分，孩子们可以朗读并聆听故事。完成一堂课或者一个故事，可以奖励在屏幕上画画或是对有关故事的一个问题录一段回答。由于回头看那些画和录音会很有趣，所以该程序把这些记录都保存起来，这也是它最大的特点。
The app’s interface feels child-friendly and is easy to use thanks to on-screen cues and spoken instructions. Children could most likely use it on their own — though an adult may need to lend a hand with some controls, like the drawing interface. The app also has great attention to detail. For example, in the section that reinforces learning letter sounds there is a convincing animation of a child mouthing the sounds on the screen.
由于配合了屏幕提示和语音说明，这款应用程序的界面让孩子们觉得很亲切，而且容易使用。虽然在一些控制操作上可能需要大人的帮忙（比如绘画界面），但孩子们很可能有能力自行使用。这款程序也很注重细节。例如，在巩固学习字母发音的部分，屏幕上会出现一个用嘴形演示发音的小孩，提供有说服力的动画。
My main problems with Learn With Homer are that it moves too slowly in places and that younger children may lose interest. Buying extra lessons via in-app purchases could also be expensive, since they each cost $2 or more.
对于“与荷马一起学习”这款程序，我认为主要不足是它的进度经常显得太慢，这样年纪小的孩子们可能会失去兴趣。在应用程序内购买额外的课程也比较贵，每课要花2美元甚至更多。
For a simpler reading app, the free Kids Reading (Preschool) app on Android is a great option. The app’s first section helps children learn to blend letter sounds into full words, through a cute game with a tortoise. The game animates the tortoise walking along slowly, sounding out each letter in a short word as he moves. The child can click on sneakers to make him move faster, which then sounds the word faster, or click on a skateboard to sound the word in real time.
如果要选择一款更简单的朗读应用程序，Android上免费的“儿童朗读（学前课）”(Kids Reading[Preschool])是个不错的选择。在该程序的第一部分，孩子们可以通过和乌龟玩一个可爱的游戏，学习怎样把字母的发音融合到整个单词中去。这个游戏做成乌龟慢慢向前走的动画，随着它的移动，读出一个短的单词中每个字母的发音。孩子可以点击运动鞋，使乌龟爬得快一些，单词发音也随之变快；或者点击滑板，这时就能听到单词在实际说话中正常语速的发音。
A “try reading” section lets children practice reading and saying short words with a simple matching game. And the “make words” option has the child spotting the right-sounding letter to complete a word puzzle. This app has clear sounds, and many children will love its simplicity. But for more words you do need to pay $3 for the full Kids Learn To Read version.
在一个名为“尝试朗读”的单元，通过玩一个简单的配对游戏，孩子们可以练习朗读并且说一些短的单词。而“作词”选项让孩子找到与发音一致的字母，从而解答一个字谜。这款应用程序的发音清晰，而且许多孩子喜欢它的简洁。但是，要学更多的单词，你需要支付3美元购买完整版的“儿童学习朗读”(Kids Learn To Read)。
Montessori Crosswords, $3 on iOS, is more sophisticated. This app’s main feature is a game in which children drag letters from an alphabet list onto a very simple crossword grid. Each word on the grid is accompanied by a picture hint. Tapping on this makes the app say the word aloud. Depending on the settings, words can be made of fewer or, if you choose, more sounds, which makes the puzzles more challenging. To keep children interested, getting words right delivers an interactive graphic, like one of shooting stars, that reacts to screen touches.
在iOS系统中价格3美元的“蒙特梭利玩字游戏”(Montessori Crosswords)更为复杂。这款应用程序的主要特点是它的一款游戏，在游戏中，孩子们要从一张字母表里把各种字母拉到一个非常简单的纵横字谜网格里。网格里的每个单词都伴有图片提示。点击相应的图片，程序就会大声念出这个单词。根据不同的设置，可以减少或增加单词的发音数量，这会使字谜更加具有挑战性。为了保持孩子们的兴趣，程序在他们拼对单词后，会提供一个人机交互的图形，比如触摸一下屏幕就会有流星划过。
Compared with its peers, this app has a narrow range of activities, which may limit how long it remains useful. It also probably works best under adult supervision — particularly since the app’s main menu is a little confusing.
与类似的应用程序相比，“蒙特梭利玩字游戏”所设置的活动不够丰富，这一限制可能意味着它不会长期有益于学习。它也可能在大人的监督下才能发挥最大的作用——尤其是鉴于它那有些令人困惑的主菜单。
For children who have learned to recognize words by themselves, and yet would benefit from guided reading experiences, there’s Booksy. This free app, for iOS and Android, is best thought of as a traditional high-quality children’s reading book with added digital powers. For example, as well as displaying a page of text and well-drawn images, it reads the text aloud. Tapping on any word — even in the labels, for example in a drawing of a whale — will make the app say the word clearly. The app can also record a child reading aloud automatically, then e-mail the audio files directly to you so you can keep track of progress. This feature may seem a little creepy, but you can turn it off.
对于一些孩子们，他们已经学会了自己识别单词，然而仍能从有指导的阅读体验中受益，他们可以使用“书虫”(Booksy)应用程序。这款免费程序有iOS和Android两个版本，被认为是一本最佳的、带有数码功能的、传统高质量儿童读物。例如，除了能显示一页文本和精美图画外，它还能大声读出这页文本。对着任何一个单词轻轻一拍，甚至是像鲸鱼图画这样的标签，程序都将清晰地说出这个单词。该程序也能自动把孩子的朗读录下来，然后直接把音频文件发邮件给父母，这样家长就能跟踪孩子的学习进度。这个功能可能有点吓人，不过你可以关掉它。
Booksy comes with two free books, and more are available through in-app purchases. There are about 30 titles for around $1 each. Each book has a different reading difficulty level, and many of them are also available in Spanish. You can lock the bookstore on iOS to prevent children from getting in, but smarter children may spot the parental controls and unlock it again. On Android there is a better “adult question” lock, but on this platform some of the app’s screen space is, unfortunately, taken up with navigation buttons.
“书虫”里有两本书是免费的，更多的书可以在应用程序内购买。程序内一共有大约30本书，每本书的价格在1美元左右。每本书都有一个不同的阅读难度等级，其中有许多还提供西班牙语版本。你可以在iOS系统里关闭书店以防止孩子进入，不过，聪明点的孩子们可能会发现家长的控制从而再次解锁。在安卓系统里，该应用程序有一个更好的“大人问题”锁，但不幸的是，在这个平台上，该程序的一些屏幕空间上分布着导航按钮。
Remember, your enthusiasm for reading can be an important example for your children — so why not play with these apps alongside them?
要记住，你对阅读的热情可能是孩子的一个重要榜样，那么，为什么不陪在他们身边一起玩这些程序呢？
Quick Call
快速决定
Dots is a simple game that has already had a lot of success on the iPhone — to play it is as easy as connecting the dots, yet it’s fiendishly addictive. Now it’s on Android, and free.
“点点”(Dots)这款简单的游戏在iPhone上已经取得了很大成功，玩这个游戏就跟将两点连成线一样简单，然而它却让人欲罢不能。现在已经有了Android版本，而且是免费的。