Within my first week of working at a start-up, I acquired a gut. The reason was obvious: there was free food everywhere, it was delicious and I was nervous. Within five days I was heaving my stomach around like a kettle bell and crossly preparing, and then ignoring, cups of green tea.
在一家初创公司工作的第一周，我的肚腩就鼓了起来。原因显而易见：到处是免费的美味食物，而我很紧张。只不过在五天之内，胃部周围的赘肉就圆鼓鼓的，让我觉得自己在肚子上托了个壶铃。一开始我对此还十分恼火，每天要喝下数杯绿茶来消脂，到后来也就由它去了。
It all started so innocently. On Monday, warm cookies from the Upper West Side bakery Levain appeared in the kitchen. Buttercream cupcakes followed; apparently it was somebody’s birthday. (It is always somebody’s birthday.) At noon, employees gathered for a catered lunch of barbecue. Two hours later, a Pinkberry station rolled into the office with the full battery of toppings. I helped myself to an incapacitating dose. By 5 p.m. my dress had grown so tight around the middle that I had to unzip it to my coccyx and put a sweater on top just to breathe.
这一切的开始显得那么纯良无害。周一，厨房里出现了来自上西城天然酵母面包店bakery Levain的热饼干。随后则是奶油蛋糕——显然这天是某人的生日。（总是有人过生日。）中午，员工们齐聚一堂，共享烧烤午餐。两个小时后，Pinkberry的奶制品送进了办公室，各种配料浇头一应俱全，吃得我撑肠拄腹。还不到下午5点，套裙的腰腹那里就变得紧绷绷的，我不得不在外面套一件毛衣，然后把裙子的拉链解到尾骨处，不然就喘不过气来了。
And that was only the first day.
这还只是第一天。
My employer, the eyewear company Warby Parker, is not unusual. Small, high-growth tech companies have had a reputation for showering employees with lavish perks since the Silicon Valley bubble days. At Sun Microsystems, nursing mothers were provided lounges for breast-feeding and an on-call “lactation consultant.” Cisco offered dry-cleaning services and popcorn. Pinball machines lined the hallways at Excite@Home.
其实我的雇主，瓦尔比派克(Warby Parker)眼镜公司并没有什么与众不同。从硅谷(Silicon Valley)的活跃期以来，规模小、成长值高的高科技企业均以向员工提供奢华的福利待遇而闻名。甲骨文软件系统有限公司(Sun Microsystems)为哺乳期的母亲准备了哺乳休息室和随叫随到的“哺乳顾问”。网络解决方案供应商思科公司(Cisco)提供干洗服务和爆米花。而在宽带网络供应商Excite@Home公司的走廊里，数台弹球机一字排开。
In his recent book, “Finding the Next Steve Jobs,” Nolan Bushnell, who founded Atari, recommends keeping toys in the office and allowing employees to nap on the clock — like Steve Jobs, who installed a futon beneath his desk.
电视游戏和街机游戏公司雅达利(Atari)的创始人诺兰·布什内尔(Nolan Bushnell)在他的新书《寻找下一个史蒂夫·乔布斯》(Finding the Next Steve Jobs)中建议在办公室里放置玩具，并允许员工在上班期间小睡——这与史蒂夫·乔布斯在自己的办公桌底下放一个蒲团异曲同工。
But New York’s tight market for skilled start-up labor has produced an even more sophisticated arms race.
尽管如此，技术熟练的劳动力对于纽约的初创公司而言仍相当紧俏，这又进一步加剧了这场“军备竞赛”。
Take Squarespace, a Web publishing platform founded in 2004. On a recent Friday afternoon, employees sat serenely in the firm’s SoHo offices, the room silent except for rapid keyboard clicks. A slim woman wearing her hair in a topknot ferried dishes of shrimp gumbo and quinoa salad to a buffet; midday meals for Squarespace employees are prepared four days a week. (On the fifth day, they order out.) Gluten-free and vegetarian options are offered at each meal, as well as a fridge stocked with Tecate and Red Bull.
以成立于2004年的Web发布平台Squarespace为例。近期的一个周五的下午，员工们都淡定地坐在公司位于纽约苏豪区的办公室内，房间里静悄悄的，只能听见快速敲击键盘的声音。一名头顶挽髻的苗条女性为自助餐台送来了一盘盘鲜虾秋葵浓汤和藜麦沙拉；一周中有四天时间Squarespace都为员工准备午餐。（周五他们叫外卖。）每一餐都备有无麸质食物和素食以供选择，冰箱里塞满了特卡特(Tecate)啤酒和红牛饮料。
On another morning at Tumblr headquarters on East 21st Street, a young man in futuristic shoes poured a glass of seltzer (it’s on tap) and sat down to breakfast: a plate piled with bacon. His co-workers nibbled at pastries, sipped high-end coffee and rooted around the fridge for their favorite flavor of Chobani yogurt. Greek yogurt, in fact, is one of the most popular start-up perks.
一天早上，在轻博客Tumblr总部（位于东21街），一名穿前卫风格鞋子的年轻男子接了一杯苏打水（散装，随饮随取），然后坐下来吃早餐：满满一盘培根。他的同事们则小口小口地品尝着糕点，啜饮着高档咖啡，并从冰箱里翻找喜欢的Chobani酸奶口味。事实上，希腊酸奶(Greek yogurt)是初创公司里最受欢迎的福利之一。
“It’s eaten almost as quickly as it’s stocked,” said Cyrus Massoumi, 36, the founder and chief executive of ZocDoc, an online medical scheduling service. “I’m partial to Siggi’s Skyr, myself.”
“几乎每次我们刚备上货它们就被扫荡一空，”在线医疗预约服务公司ZocDoc的创始人兼首席执行官，36岁的赛勒斯·玛索米(Cyrus Massoumi)说，“我个人倒是更偏爱Siggi的Skyr口味酸奶。”
The free lunches and self-replenishing pantries of New York’s start-ups can occasionally bring to mind Cockaigne, the mythical medieval land where cakes grew on trees, meat pies rained from the sky and fish leaped from rivers to roast themselves and fly directly into waiting mouths. In one 13th-century French epic poem, “Huon de Bordeaux,” a paradisiacal river restores health and youth to all who drink from it. Today’s version? Coconut water.
纽约初创公司的免费午餐和随时补货的茶水间时不时让人联想起中世纪神话中的安乐乡(Cockaigne)，在那里，树上可以结出蛋糕，肉馅饼从天而降，鱼儿们自己从河里跳出来烤得喷香，然后直接飞入嗷嗷待哺的口中。13世纪的法国史诗《波尔多的于翁》(Huon de Bordeaux)中讲到，天堂里的河流可让饮用河水的人重获健康和青春。而今这条河有了现代版本，不过河水变成了椰子汁。
“For a treat-loving man such as myself, the office is a great environment,” said Martin Mulkeen, 29, a senior editor at Birchbox on East 28th Street.
“对于像我这样的吃货而言，这种办公环境简直太理想了，”化妆品零售平台Birchbox公司（位于东28街）的资深编辑、29岁的马丁·穆尔肯(Martin Mulkeen)表示。
And let’s not forget the basics.
介绍了这许多，让我们不要忘记那些最基本的福利。
“We have cold-brewed coffee at all times,” said Dan Logan, 28, the director of product marketing at Bitly in the Union Square area. Bitly workers (“Bitizens,” they call themselves) may also prepare beverages from the office’s Jura Impressa X9 Platinum, which pumps out cappuccinos at the touch of a button. (The machines start at $6,495.)
“我们随时都提供冰滴咖啡，”短域名服务公司Bitly（位于联合广场区）的产品营销总监，28岁的丹·洛根(Dan Loga)说。Bitly公司的工作人员（他们自称 “Bitizens”）还可以使用办公室的优瑞咖啡机X9铂金款(Jura Impressa X9 Platinum)自己做饮料，只需轻轻一按，即可享用卡布其诺咖啡。（这款机器的售价为6495美元起）。
“I was not a coffee drinker at all before I started StyleUp,” said Kendall Herbst, 29, a former Lucky magazine editor who co-founded the personal styling service. “Now it’s my lifeblood.”
“在创建StyleUp前，我并不是咖啡党，”该个人造型服务公司的共同创立者、《幸运》(Lucky)杂志的前任编辑、29岁的肯德尔·赫布斯特(Kendall Herbst)说，“但现在咖啡是我的命根子。”
As many employees noted, New Yorkers are picky about their coffee, so office managers can forget about throwing a can of Folgers in the freezer and calling it a day. Perhaps the most popular provider is Stumptown Coffee Roasters from Portland, Ore., whose Hair Bender blend can be found in many start-up pantries. As Mr. Logan put it, “You got to have good brew.”
正如许多员工所发现的那样，纽约人对咖啡非常挑剔，办公室经理很可能会将自己把一罐Folgers速溶咖啡扔进冰柜的事忘得一干二净就下班了。时下最流行的咖啡供应商或许是来自俄勒冈州波特兰市的斯邓姆顿咖啡馆(Stumptown Coffee Roasters)，在诸多初创公司的茶水间中，都可以找到他家的 Hair Bender特调咖啡。正如洛根先生所说：“美味的咖啡必不可少”。
That includes alcohol. Artsy, an art appreciation platform, hosts a weekly happy hour in its Chinatown office that features 360-degree views of Manhattan (and beer on tap). Birchbox keeps its fridge supplied with Champagne for celebrations, and Tumblr also offers beer on tap (this week: an aromatic, malty I.P.A.). But when it comes to spirits, the lifestyle publication Thrillist reigns supreme, with two fully stocked bars and a rotating schedule of liquor tastings.
酒类也是基本福利的一部分。艺术鉴赏平台Artsy公司每周都在其位于唐人街，拥有360度曼哈顿全景视野的办公室里举办一次宴会（提供散装啤酒）。Birchbox公司的冰箱里始终留有香槟的一席之地，以供庆祝使用。Tumblr公司也提供散装啤酒（本周为芳香型麦芽IPA）。但是，要说到烈性酒，生活方式出版公司Thrillist可谓登峰造极，它拥有两个储备充足的酒吧，并会举行轮流品酒活动。
“Whiskey, tequila: it’s always available,” said Devon Giddon, 27, the company’s director of communications. “Not to mention the kegerator.”
“我们随时供应威士忌和龙舌兰酒，”该公司的公关总监，27岁的德文·吉登(Devon Giddon)说，“更不用说还有家用扎啤机(kegerator)。”
The what? “It’s a keg in the fridge, so it’s always cold.”
那是什么？“一种自酿啤酒的小桶，我们把它放在冰箱里以保持低温状态。”
With start-ups subsidizing round-the-clock snacking and drinking, it’s easy to pack on weight. Rather than institute a dress code of elastic-waist pants, many companies offer free gym memberships, yoga classes and group SoulCycle outings to keep employees in fighting form. Birchbox has a mini-gym inside the office.
在初创公司的这种全天候饮食福利之下，体重飙升不足为奇。不过松紧带裤子并没有成为这些公司的着装风范，相反，许多公司向员工们提供了免费的健身房会员资格和瑜珈课，并组织他们进行远足，以充分保持其“战斗力”。Birchbox公司的办公室里就设有小型健身房。
“We have random hula-hooping sessions,” said Melissa Enbar, 29, the company’s director of recruiting. Multitaskers at Squarespace can choose to work from ErgoErgo chairs if they wish; shaped like giant fusilli pasta tubes, the seats supposedly engage core muscles while users write JavaScript and tweet.
“我们不定期地组织呼啦圈大会，”该公司的招聘主管、29 岁的梅利莎·恩巴尔(Melissa Enbar)说。Squarespace公司这些日理万机的员工们可以按照自己的意愿选择是否要坐在ErgoErgo健身椅上工作；这种座椅状如巨型螺丝粉，据说它可以让使用者一边编写JavaScript、发微博，一边锻炼核心肌群。
For those immune to the temptations of a Michael Phelps-style caloric regimen, other distractions are available. Spotify hands out free concert tickets and treats employees to performances from artists like Sheryl Crow, while Chartbeat workers play with office puppies in the puppytorium (also known as the back room). Birchbox employees can sign up to get manicures and haircuts in the office.
对于那些可以抵御饕餮美食诱惑的人们，还有其他的娱乐消遣项目。数字音乐服务公司Spotify会分发免费的音乐会门票，并招待员工欣赏谢里尔·克罗(Sheryl Crow)等艺术家的表演。而网站流量分析公司Chartbeat的工作人员可以在puppytorium（里屋）与办公室养的宠物狗玩耍。Birchbox公司的员工则可报名接受办公室美甲和美发服务。
“We try to facilitate an environment where employees feel really comfortable,” said Andrew Burke, 28, the head of talent development at Squarespace. “It pays off in terms of the work that is done and the results that happen.”
“我们力图营造一个让员工舒适的环境，”Squarespace公司的人才开发部长、28岁的安德鲁·伯克(Andrew Burke)说，“员工们完成的工作及取得的成果则令这些付出物有所值。”
But the escalation of perks can lead to sticky situations.
然而，不断升级的福利待遇也可能会导致棘手的情况。
“Once you set a precedent, it can be difficult to take things away,” said Mr. Burke, citing an iTunes account that allowed Squarespace employees to guest-D.J. the office music. Trouble arose when employees began to play “random stuff that wasn’t necessarily on par with how others were vibing.” The account was disabled.
“一旦你开创了一个先例，要取缔它就不那么容易了，”伯克先生说，并援引了一个iTunes账户作为例子。该账户允许Squarespace公司的员工客串办公室的音乐DJ，但是，当员工们开始“胡乱玩一些对其他人而言未必顺耳的东西时”，麻烦接踵而至。目前，该帐户已经作废。
Unlimited vacation, which most of the start-ups in this article offer, also provides a clear opportunity to overindulge, though no employer seemed to have a problem with it — perhaps because daily life in their offices has much in common with an all-inclusive resort.
本文中提及的大部分初创公司都提供无限期休假，可这也为过度放纵提供了大好时机。不过，雇主们对此似乎并没有异议——或许，这是因为他们的日常办公室生活本来就已经和一个应有尽有的度假村相差无几了。
And not surprisingly, employees are quick to defend their perks.
毫不意外地，员工们很快站出来捍卫自己的福利待遇。
“I don’t think having beer at the office is decadent,” said Mr. Mulkeen of Birchbox. Other employees made a convincing case that they spend more time at work thanks to the ambient luxuries.
“我认为，在办公室提供啤酒不会令人颓废堕落，”Birchbox公司的穆尔肯先生说。其他员工也提出了令人信服的理由，证明奢华的环境让他们情愿延长工作时间。
And some even display “perks envy.”
有人甚至出现了“福利羡慕情结”。
“I’ve heard that one company has Juice Press juices in their communal fridge that you can take,” said Ms. Herbst of StyleUp, her voice wistful. “That’s quite a nice perk that I would love to have.” (A 17-ounce bottle of the company’s juice runs about $9.)
“我听说有家公司的公用冰箱放置了鲜榨果汁任你取用，”StyleUp公司的赫布斯特女士的声音充满向往，“我也想拥有这种福利。”（该公司提供一瓶17盎司[约0.48千克]瓶装果汁的成本约为9美元。）
Mr. Burke of Squarespace said: “I heard that one place pays for someone to clean your apartment. The more we see companies escalating with perks, the more we’ll hear about things that seem outrageous.”
Squarespace公司的伯克先生说：“我听说有的地方会请人帮你打扫公寓。随着公司不断改善福利待遇，我们将听说越来越多匪夷所思的新福利。”
Mr. Bushnell of Atari, a veteran of the start-up world, was asked where he draws the line between “productive perk” and “wanton decadence.” His answer: Well, he doesn’t.
当有人问及老牌初创公司Atari的布什内尔先生应如何划定“富有成效的福利待遇”和“荒唐的颓废”之间的界限时，他回答：“这个啊，我不区分它们”。
“I’ve often felt that it is somehow wrong to have an engineer spend any time at all scrubbing his own toilet,” he said. “It sounds elitist, but these people are highly important to the economy and to the company. Offering maid service to them as a perk makes total sense.”
“我总觉得让一名工程师在刷厕所上花费哪怕一点时间都是一种错误，”他说，“这听起来似乎很精英主义，但这些人对经济发展对公司都极其重要，为他们提供家政服务作为福利合情合理。”
Katia Beauchamp, 30, a Birchbox founder, had a different perspective.
Birchbox公司的创始人，30岁的凯蒂娅·比彻姆(Katia Beauchamp)则抱有不同观点。
“I often think of the analogy between this and being a parent,” she said. “You want to give people every opportunity, but sometimes you make a decision to hold back because you know it’s better not to have a spoiled child.”
“我经常将这与为人父母相类比，”她说，“你想为人们创造一切机会，但有些时候你必须有所克制，因为你知道最好不要把孩子给宠坏了。”
For me, the lesson quickly sank in. As much as I enjoyed vacuuming up cookies, I couldn’t afford to outgrow all of my new work clothes. Since then, I’ve kept a lid on my treat consumption. If I fail, a company-subsidized gym membership awaits me.
对于我而言，很快就得到了充分的教训。不管我多喜欢吃饼干，但胖到让我再没有一件合身的新工作服可让我受不了。从那之后，我开始控制我的食量。如果这招也不奏效，我就准备启用公司资助的健身房会员资格了。