For 12 years, Nicole Juday and her family lived across the street from a derelict 19th-century house that was the despair of the neighborhood.
妮可·朱岱(Nicole Juday)和家人在一栋荒废的19世纪房屋对面住了十二年，在这个社区里，那栋房屋就是个死穴。
It wasn’t abandoned, but it may as well have been. A fire had destroyed much of the second floor, and raccoons were living in the attic. In the backyard was the marshy remains of what had once been a swimming pool, a cesspool that parents worried their children might fall into.
虽然并没有被弃置，但那栋房屋也早已形同废弃。一场大火烧毁了房屋二楼的大部分地方，阁楼里还住上了一些浣熊。后院中已经是一片沼泽的残余，曾经是游泳池的地方，现在是父母担心孩子会跌进去的一个污水坑。
As for Ms. Juday, she thought that the house would be turned into a residential mental health center, like so many of the other large homes in the Germantown neighborhood here, or that a developer would buy it and raze it, putting up a concrete-block apartment tower.
至于朱岱，她曾担心这里会像德国镇(Germantown)社区中的许多大房屋一样，被改建为一所住宅式精神健康中心，或是由某个开发商买下来将其夷为平地，然后修建一栋用混凝土块堆砌的公寓大厦。
“More than wanting to save the house,” she said, “I wanted to save the neighborhood.”
“我不只是想拯救这栋房屋，”她说，“我想拯救这个社区。”
So in 2010, she and her husband bought the seven-bedroom house and all of its contents from the elderly owner for $125,000.
所以，2010年，她和丈夫从前业主手中，以12.5万美元（约合人民币78万）的价格，买下了这栋带有七间卧室的房屋，以及里面所有的东西。
Even at that price, it was no bargain. “I think the house was possibly condemnable,” said Ms. Juday, 43.
就那样的价格，还不让还价。“我觉得这栋房屋可能该受谴责，”43岁的朱岱说。
It took another $400,000 and thousands of hours of labor to make it habitable. That included rebuilding it from the studs out, with new wiring, plumbing, roofing and plaster, and installing historically accurate windows and millwork. Beams were added to shore up the structure, and the brick exterior was repointed. The swimming pool was filled in, and an old caved-in Chevy was hauled out of the side yard.
她又付了40万美元（约合人民币249万元）和数千小时的辛苦劳动，才让这里变得适宜居住。他们努力在一片断壁残垣上重建这栋房屋，包括重新布线、安装水管、铺上屋顶并粉刷墙壁，还得装上和过去分毫不差的窗户和木构件。房顶增加了几根横梁，用以支撑房屋结构，外面的砖砌饰面也重新勾了缝。游泳池里又蓄满了水，还有一辆已经凹陷的老式雪佛兰，被从侧院中拖了出来。
Then, a year ago, about halfway through the renovation, Ms. Juday’s husband moved out. She has since finished the renovation on her own and started a new job running the horticultural education program for the Barnes Foundation art collection.
之后，在一年前，房屋翻修工程进行到大约一半的时候，朱岱的丈夫从家里搬了出去。于是，她独自完成了此后的所有翻修，并换了一份新工作，开始为巴恩斯基金会(Barnes Foundation)的艺术品收藏馆开展园艺教育计划。
Ms. Juday’s mother, Lisa Montserat, now occupies a suite on the second floor, and Ms. Juday’s daughter, Rive, 17, and son, Asa, 14, have their own rooms, which they decorated themselves.
朱岱的母亲丽莎·蒙特塞拉特(Lisa Montserat)现在住在二楼的一个套间里，而朱岱17岁的女儿赖芙(Rive)及14岁的儿子阿萨(Asa)都有他们自己的房间，而且是他们自己布置的。
Throughout the rest of the house, though, Ms. Juday’s eclectic taste is on display. In general, she said, she prefers modern design, but she doesn’t like ultramodern style in an older home. “If something doesn’t have patina and you’re putting it into a place that has a lot of patina,” she said, “it can look too anachronistic.”
不过，屋里其它部分充分展示出了朱岱挑剔的品味。大体上，她说，她比较喜欢现代设计，但她不喜欢把超现代的风格用在一栋老房子里。“如果某件东西没有古旧的感觉，你却要把它放在一个有很多旧物的地方，”她说，“那看起来就太穿越了。”
On the other hand, she said, “We’re not trying to reinterpret some kind of golden age of anything here.”
另一方面，她说，“我们并不试图在这里的任何东西上再现某种黄金岁月的感觉。”
She tried to salvage what she could. The round table that sits in the entry hall she found broken in the house, but a local furniture maker refurbished it and covered the top with sheets of zinc punctuated by rivets.
她努力抢救了她所能抢救的东西。她发现那张放置在门厅里的圆桌破损了，但当地一家家具制造商将它重新修好，还用几张锌皮包住桌面，并在上面点缀了数颗铆钉。
The 19th-century dining chairs also came with the house, although one had been thrown out a window and was in pieces on the ground. Ms. Juday had the chairs restored and reupholstered in vintage Scalamandré fabric.
那些19世纪的餐厅座椅也是屋里原有的，尽管其中一把已被扔出窗外，在地上摔成了若干碎片。朱岱将这几把椅子复原，又包裹了上等的斯卡拉曼德(Scalamandré)面料。
The wall dividing the kitchen and the old butler’s pantry was removed to create a larger space. New appliances were installed, the original cupboards were restored and rearranged, and the original brick chimney was exposed, creating a textured backdrop for the butcher-block island and a rack of hanging pots.
那堵分隔厨房与原来的配膳室的墙壁被拆掉了，开辟出更大的空间。厨房里装了新电器，并复原并重新排列了原有的橱柜。另外，原有的砖砌烟囱被显露出来，带给料理台和一个悬挂着许多炊具的架子一个很有质感的背景。
What has such an extensive renovation and the accompanying upheaval taught her?
这样大规模的翻修和随之而来的生活剧变，让她学会了什么呢？
Most of all, Ms. Juday said, she has learned to trust herself.
最重要的是，朱岱说，她已经学会了相信自己。
These days, “I don’t overthink things,” she said. “Usually I go with my first instinct.”
如今，“我不会想得太多了，”她说，“通常我就随着自己第一反应去做。”