When Elizabeth Foy Larsen was growing up in the 1970s, she spent an enormous amount of time watching television. But now that she has three children of her own and a four-bedroom Mediterranean-style house filled with computers, TVs and iPads, Ms. Larsen finds herself waging an ongoing battle against screens.
伊丽莎白·福伊·拉森(Elizabeth Foy Larsen)成长于20世纪70年代，小时候她把大量时间花在了看电视上。不过现在，她已养育了三个孩子，住在一栋带四间卧室的地中海式房屋里。他们的家中装了多台电脑、电视和iPad，这时拉森发现，自己已经不知不觉与那些带屏幕的电器展开了一场持久战。
“On some days,” she said, “it’s a fine line between whether it’s our family home or a media center.”
“有些时候，”她说，“这里是我们的家，还是一个多媒体中心，之间的差别已经是微乎其微了。”
Fighting the war against techno-passivity is in part what inspired “Unbored: The Essential Field Guide to Serious Fun,” a new book from Bloomsbury that Ms. Larsen wrote with Joshua Glenn. With how-to ideas like making LED graffiti and get-out-and-explore manifestoes by the illustrator Joe Alterio and others, it reads like an old-fashioned child’s activity book for a modern Gen-X parented family.
对抗“科技被动状态”(techno-passivity)的战争，在某种程度上给了她创作《不无聊：快乐生活必备实战指南》(Unbored: The Essential Field Guide to Serious Fun)的灵感，这是由拉森和乔舒亚·格伦(Joshua Glenn)合著、由布卢姆斯伯里出版社(Bloomsbury)出版的一本新书。书中有一些关于“怎样做”的点子，比如怎样随手涂鸦一支LED节能灯，还有插画家乔·阿尔塔里奥(Joe Alterio)与其他人提出的“走出去探索吧”的宣言。整本书读起来，就像是为“X世代”(Gen-X)父母组成的当代家庭所写的一本老式儿童活动手册。
Ms. Larsen, 48, a former editor at Sassy, the ’90s alternagirl magazine, said the book is designed to get children involved in activities that strengthen social bonds and shape their self-identity. And many of the suggestions, she said, were road-tested inside her home in Minneapolis.
现年48岁的拉森曾是90年代潮流女性杂志《Sassy》的前任编辑。她说，创作这本书是为了让孩子们多多参与一些能够加强社会纽带、并塑造自我角色的活动。而且，书中的许多建议，都在她位于明尼阿波利斯市(Minneapolis)的家中得到了实际检验。她说。
“The decorating-your-room chapter came directly out of having my kids create environments they liked,” she said.
“‘装修你的房间’这一章节，直接来源于我让孩子们打造自己喜欢的生活环境的事，”她说。
Her middle child, Henrik, 10, chose for his bedroom walls an orange she compared to “standing in the middle of an orange-juice-concentrate can.” It was a choice that tested her conviction that family governance ought to be a democracy in which the parents wield soft power, rather than a dictatorship.
10岁的亨里克(Henrik)是她的第二个孩子，他为自己的卧室墙壁选择了一种桔红色，这种颜色被她比作“站在一听浓缩橙汁罐头中”。这样的选择考验了她的一个信念，那就是，家庭管理应该是一种民主作风，所以父母应该采取柔性策略而不是独断专行。
But Henrik vetoed her suggestions for a subtler shade, and Ms. Larsen conceded: “It’s his room. I wanted him to have it the way that made sense to him.”
但亨里克否决了她所建议的一种不太显眼的色调，于是拉森让了一步：“这是他的房间。我想让他用自己认为有意义的方式来布置。”
Peter, 13, her oldest, is a modern-design fan who picked out his Ikea furniture and, with help from an artist friend of his mother’s, stenciled the Los Angeles skyline above his bed. “He thinks he lives in way too small a town,” Ms. Larsen said.
13岁的彼得(Peter)是家中年龄最大的孩子。他痴迷于现代化的设计。他挑选了宜家的家具，然后在母亲的一位艺术家好友的帮助下，在床头贴上了一张洛杉矶城市风景线的剪影。“他觉得自己生活的城市太小了，”拉森说道。
The only child who didn’t have creative control was Luisa, 8, who was just a toddler when the family moved in.
唯一没有创意主导权的孩子就是8岁的路易莎(Luisa)。当全家人搬进来的时候，她还是个蹒跚学步的孩子呢。
“She isn’t crazy about this Cath Kidston floral wallpaper,” Ms. Larsen said. “But she was 2 when I did it, so she didn’t have a lot of say.” When Peter goes off to college, Luisa will take over his room and get the chance to show off her design skills.
“她不怎么喜欢这种凯思·金德斯顿(Cath Kidston)牌的花朵墙纸，”拉森说，“但是我装修房间的时候她才2岁，也给不出太多意见。”等彼得离开家去上大学以后，路易莎会住进他的房间，那时便有机会一展她的设计才华了。
Ms. Larsen and her husband, Walter Schleisman, 44, an assistant principal at a local magnet school, envisioned an unbored life for their children as far back as 2006, when they bought the house for $770,000. Its 2,900 square feet offered more stretch-out room than their previous home, and the proximity to park space encouraged outdoor play.
拉森的丈夫、44岁的沃尔特·施利斯曼(Walter Schleisman)是当地公立中学的一位副校长。夫妇俩早在2006年就预见到，孩子们会过上这种不无聊的生活。当时，他们以77万美元（约合人民币469万元）的价格买下了这栋房子。这里2900平方英尺（约269.42平方米）的空间比他们曾经的住处更为宽敞，而且靠近公园的地理优势，鼓励全家人进行户外娱乐活动。
“We wanted a neighborhood where our kids could explore without us,” Ms. Larsen said, adding that nearby Cedar Lake has plenty of “nooks and crannies.”
“我们想住在一个能使孩子们与我们共同探索的社区，”拉森说。她还说，在附近的雪松湖(Cedar Lake)公园中，有许多“边边角角”可以探索。
Even if they need a push out the door.
哪怕他们得有很大动力才会出门。
“Our kids have 255 channels and unlimited Internet, plus the App Store,” Mr. Schleisman said. “It is a challenge.”
“孩子们有255个频道和无止境的英特网可看，外加一个App商店，”施利斯曼说，“这是个挑战。”
The only drawback was the tiny master bedroom, with its pocket door that opened into what would be a child’s room, so the couple walled off the door and enlarged the room to include an office for Ms. Larsen and an updated master bath.
房屋唯一的遗憾就是那间狭小的主卧室。卧室里有一扇折叠门，原本通往一间儿童房。于是夫妇俩隔开了这道门，并扩大了这个房间，在里面设计了一间拉森的办公室，还有一间现代化的主卧浴室。
Elsewhere, Ms. Larsen worked with a designer, Janet Gridley, to replicate the feeling of the homes of her mother and grandmother, which combined traditional elements with a 1970s grooviness. Toile wallpaper in the dining room looks conservative, but the design features absurdly large pheasants, and the chandelier is made of coffee filters.
在家中其他的地方，拉森与设计师珍妮·特格里德利(Janet Gridley)合作，再现了她的母亲和祖母家里的感觉，其中结合了一些带有70年代特色的传统元素。饭厅里贴的薄麻布(Toile)墙纸看起来很保守，但画了一些大得出奇的野鸡，还有一盏枝形吊灯是用咖啡滤纸做的。
In the spirit of “Unbored,” Ms. Larsen has tried not to be a perfectionist in decorating the home. Indeed, the living room often looks like a tent city, she said, with blankets and towels covering the furniture while the children make forts. And although the grass cloth wall covering in the family room was the first thing Ms. Larsen chose for the house, she conceded it would look better with a more-chic couch. But Darwin, the family’s labradoodle, insists on jumping on the furniture.
本着“不无聊”的精神，拉森在装修房屋时努力避免成为一个完美主义者。的确，这间客厅常常看起来像是一座帐篷城市，她说道，孩子们搭建玩具堡垒的时候，家具上盖着毯子和毛巾。尽管这间家庭娱乐室里贴的夏布墙纸，是拉森为这栋房屋选择的第一样东西，但她承认，如果有个更时髦的沙发，房间里会好看得多。但家里的拉布拉多犬达尔文(Darwin)又总是喜欢往沙发上跳。
“The kids aren’t running the show, although sometimes it feels like they are,” Ms. Larsen said. Then she added what could be the mantra of anyone with a house full of children: “It’s a process.”
“孩子们并不是生活的总指挥，尽管有时候感觉上他们挺像的，”拉森说。然后她又说了一句大概每个养了一屋子孩子的人都会奉为至理名言的话，“这是一个过程。”