PARIS — For decades, Europeans have agonized over the power and role of Germany — the so-called German question — given its importance to European stability and prosperity.
巴黎——几十年来，由于德国的力量和角色对欧洲的稳定与繁荣至关重要，欧洲人深感不安，这也就是所谓的德国问题。
Today, however, Europe is talking about “the French question”: can the Socialist government of President François Hollande pull France out of its slow decline and prevent it from slipping permanently into Europe’s second tier?
然而如今，欧洲大陆却在探讨“法国问题”：总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)的社会党政府能否带领法国走出缓慢衰退，并防止该国永久地落入欧洲二线国家的行列。
At stake is whether a social democratic system that for decades prided itself on being the model for providing a stable and high standard of living for its citizens can survive the combination of globalization, an aging population and the acute fiscal shocks of recent years.
几十年来，法国的社会民主主义制度为其公民提供了稳定和高标准的生活，作为这方面的楷模，法国也以此为傲，然而问题的关键是，在同时面临全球化、人口老龄化和近年来的剧烈财政冲击之时，这样的一个制度能否持续下去。
Those close to Mr. Hollande say that he is largely aware of what must be done to cut government spending and reduce regulations weighing down the economy, and is carefully gauging the political winds. But what appears to be missing is the will; France’s friends, Germany in particular, fear that Mr. Hollande may simply lack the political courage to confront his allies and make the necessary decisions.
那些与奥朗德关系密切的人表示，他基本上了解应该采取何种措施来减少政府开支，并削减那些抑制经济增长的法规，同时他也在小心翼翼地估量政治风向。然而，他似乎又缺乏所需的意志；法国的朋友们，特别是德国，担心奥朗德可能就是缺乏政治勇气，来直面他的盟友，做出必要决定。
Changing any country is difficult. But the challenge in France seems especially hard, in part because of the nation’s amour-propre and self-image as a European leader and global power, and in part because French life is so comfortable for many and the day of reckoning still seems far enough away, especially to the country’s small but powerful unions.
改变任何国家都是困难的。然而法国面临的挑战似乎尤为艰巨，从某些方面来说，这是因为法国的自尊和作为欧洲领导者和世界强国的自我认知，从另外一些方面来看，这是因为法国生活对许多人来说如此舒适，需要接受现实的那一天看似还十分遥远，对这个国家少数有影响力的政治联盟来说更是如此。
The turning of the business cycle could actually be a further impediment in that sense, because as the European economy slowly mends, the French temptation will be to hope that modest economic growth will again mask, like a tranquilizer, the underlying problems.
实际上，从这种意义上来说，经济形势的转变也可能会带来更多阻碍，因为随着欧洲经济缓慢复苏，法国面临的诱惑是，希望小幅经济增长会再次像镇静剂那样掩盖住一些根本问题。
The French are justifiably proud of their social model. Health care and pensions are good, many French retire at 60 or younger, five or six weeks of vacation every summer is the norm, and workers with full-time jobs have a 35-hour week and significant protections against layoffs and firings.
法国人有理由为他们的社会模式而自豪。法国的医疗保险和养老制度十分优越，许多法国人在60岁或更早就会退休，每年夏天五、六周的假期属于惯例，全职员工每周工作35小时，也有相关法律大力保护员工不被裁员或解雇。
But in a more competitive world economy, the question is not whether the French social model is a good one, but whether the French can continue to afford it. Based on current trends, the answer is clearly no, not without significant structural changes — in pensions, in taxes, in social benefits, in work rules and in expectations.
但在如今竞争愈加激烈的世界经济环境中，问题不是法国的社会模式是否优越，而是法国是否能继续负担得起这样的社会模式。根据当前的趋势看来，答案毫无疑问是“否”，如果不在养老、税制、社会福利、用工法规和人们的期望值等领域做出重大的结构性调整，这样的社会模式是无法持续下去的。
But Mr. Hollande’s Socialist Party and the harder French left have not seemed to grasp the famous insight of the prince’s nephew in Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa’s renowned novel of social upheaval, “The Leopard,” that “everything needs to change, so everything can stay the same.” Sometimes, talking to French politicians and workers, one has the feeling that they all consider themselves communards and revolutionaries, fighters on the left — but at the same time, like the far right, they wish to lock into place the comfort of the known.
在朱塞佩·托马西·迪·兰佩杜萨(Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa)有关社会动乱的著名小说《豹》(The Leopard)中，亲王的侄子有这样的深刻见解，“每件事都需要改变，所以每件事都可以保持不变。”但奥朗德的社会党以及更强硬的法国左翼看似还没有掌握这句名言的精髓所在。有时候，与法国政治家和工薪一族交谈，你会有这样的感觉，他们都自视为巴黎公社社员和革命者、左翼斗士，然而同时，和极右翼一样，他们也希望能永久保有自己现有的舒适生活。
The Socialists have become a conservative party, desperately trying to preserve the victories of the last century. Many in the party, like the anti-globalization campaigner Arnaud Montebourg, now the minister in charge of industrial renewal — let alone those further to the left — seem to believe that France would be fine if only the rest of the world would just disappear, or at least work a little less hard.
社会党已变成一个保守党派，竭尽全力想要维护上世纪取得的胜利。许多像倡导反全球化的阿尔诺·蒙特布尔(Arnaud Montebourg)那样的社会党成员，以及那些左翼思想更严重的人，他们看来相信，如果法国以外的国家全体消失，或者它们不要如此努力，那么法国就可以安枕无忧。蒙特布尔现为振兴工业部部长。
There is nonetheless an underlying understanding that there will be little lasting gain without structural changes to the state-heavy French economy. The warning signs are everywhere: French unemployment and youth unemployment are at record levels; growth is slow compared with Germany, Britain, the United States or Asia; government spending represents nearly 57 percent of gross domestic product, the highest in the euro zone, and is 11 percentage points higher than Germany. The government employs 90 civil servants per 1,000 residents, compared with 50 in Germany.
人们毫无疑问有一种根本共识，如果法国不对国有成分较重的经济做出结构性调整，就不会有多少真正的收获。 我们可以看到各种警示迹象：法国的失业率和年轻人失业率处于创历史记录的高点；与德国、英国、美国或亚洲相比，增长十分缓慢；政府开支在国内生产总值(gross domestic product)中占了近57%，这一比例在欧元区最高，超过德国11个百分点。在每千位居民中，有90名政府公务员，在德国，这一数字是50。
Hourly wage costs are high and social spending represents 32 percent of G.D.P., highest among the industrialized countries; real wage increases outpace productivity growth; national debt is more than 90 percent of G.D.P.
小时工资成本很高，社会支出占到国内生产总值的32%，在发达国家中是最高的；实际工资增长超过了生产率增长速度；国家债务超过了国内生产总值的90%。
About 82 percent of the new jobs created last year were temporary contracts, up from 70 percent only five years ago, not the kind of full-time work that opens the door to the French middle class. That keeps nearly an entire generation living precariously, no matter how hard people study or work.
去年新增就业岗位中的约82%是临时合同，高于五年前的70%，这些工作可不会打开通向法国中产阶级的大门。这让差不多整整一代人生活在不安定之中，不管他们多么努力地学习或工作。
Last year, France was ranked 28th out of the 60 most competitive economies in the world, according to the International Institute for Management Development in Lausanne, Switzerland. The United States was first. Even China, at 21, and Japan, at 24, outranked France. In the World Bank’s ranking of “ease of doing business,” France ranks 34th, compared with 7th for Britain and 20th for Germany.
去年，据瑞士洛桑的国际管理发展学院(International Institute for Management Development)的研究，在世界上最具竞争力的60个经济体中，法国名列第28位。美国名列第一。甚至排名21位的中国和24位的日本都在法国之前。在世界银行(World Bank)的“经商便利度”排名中，法国名列第34位，而英国为第7位，德国为第20位。
In Amiens, in the north of France, Goodyear owns two tire factories. The work force at one has grudgingly accepted a change in work schedules, preserving its factory. The workers at the other have refused, and Goodyear is trying (not so easy in France) to shut it down, throwing more people out of work. Claude Dimoff, a former union leader at the more flexible plant, said: “I’m part of a generation that experienced the common program of the left. We had visions for the future, and different values, but all this is forgotten. The left has completely deviated from its promises.”
在法国北部的亚眠，固特异(Goodyear)拥有两家工厂。其中一家的工人们勉强接受了工作安排上的变化，留住了这家工厂。而另一家工厂的工人拒绝改变，固特异正在尝试（在法国不那么容易）关闭该厂，而这会令更多人失去工作。那家采取灵活策略的工厂的一位前工会领袖克劳德·迪莫夫(Claude Dimoff)说，“我属于经历了左翼共同纲领的一代人。我们曾拥有对未来的愿景和不同的价值观，但这一切都被忘记了。左翼已经完全偏离了它做出的承诺。”
The country retains plenty of strengths. France is the world’s fifth-largest economy, with strong traditions in management, science and innovation. The gap between rich and poor is narrower in France than in most Western countries, although it is growing.
这个国家还保有许多优势。法国是世界第五大经济体，历来在管理、科学和创新上极具实力。法国的贫富差距比大多数西方国家要小，尽管它也在扩大。
When the French work, they work hard; labor productivity, perhaps the single most important indicator of an economy’s potential, is still relatively high, if dropping. But with long holidays and the 35-hour week, the French work fewer hours than most competitors, putting an extra strain on corporations and the economy.
当法国人工作时，他们努力工作；劳动生产率或许是衡量经济潜力最重要的一项指标，在法国，虽然这一指数正在下降，仍然相对较高。但由于长假和每周35小时的工作时间，法国人的工作时长比大多数竞争对手都要少，这给企业和经济都带来了额外的压力。
Large French companies compete globally; there are more French companies in the Fortune 500 than any other European country. But the bulk of their employees are abroad, and there are few of the midsize companies that are the backbone of Germany. Ninety percent of French companies have 10 or fewer employees and fear expansion because of extra tax burdens and strict labor regulations.
法国大企业参与全球竞争；法国在财富500强(Fortune 500)中的公司比其他任何欧洲国家都多。但这些企业的大量员工都在国外，而且法国和德国不同，没有多少中型企业，而这种企业正是德国的支柱。90%的法国公司只有10名或更少的员工，因为额外的税赋和严格的劳动法规，它们也无意扩张。
There is a broad consensus that real social and structural renovation can be carried out only by the left. But that can happen only if Mr. Hollande, who has a legislative majority, is willing to confront his own party in the name of the future, as the former German chancellor Gerhard Schröder did a decade ago with a series of legal modifications that now get much of the credit for Germany’s revival.
一个广泛的共识是，真正的社会和结构性革新只能由左派执行。但出现这种情况的前提是，拥有立法所需多数席位的奥朗德愿以未来之名直面自己的政党，就像德国前总理格哈特·施罗德(Gerhard Schröder)在10年前所做的一系列法律修改，在很大程度上成就了现在德国的经济复兴。
Mr. Hollande says he believes in “dialogue with social partners,” which has so far produced relative peace but little substantive change. With centrist union agreement, he has slightly loosened the labor market, making flex time easier and taxing short-term contracts more steeply. And in 2014 he is moving about $27 billion of social costs from corporations to the regressive value-added tax.
奥朗德说，他相信“与社会伙伴间的对话”，这到目前为止带来了相对平和的局面，却缺乏实质的改变。随着与中间派达成协议，他已经稍微放松了对劳动力市场的控制，令弹性工时更容易，也提高了对短期合同的征税。在2014年，他将为企业减除270亿美元（约合1650亿元人民币）的社会成本，以累退增值税作为补充。
But what can seem bold in local terms tends to yield minor results, and these modest efforts have taken place at the height of Mr. Hollande’s power, which is inevitably declining.
但在小范围内看似大胆的举措却往往收效不大，奥朗德在自己的权力巅峰时期只推出了这些小举措，而他的权力正在不可避免地衰落着。