Is North Korea irrational? Or does it just pretend to be?
朝鲜丧失了理性吗，抑或它只是装作如此？
North Korea has given the world ample reason to ask: threats of war, occasional attacks against South Korea, eccentric leaders and wild-eyed propaganda. As its nuclear and missile programs have grown, this past week with a fifth nuclear test, that concern has grown more urgent.
战争威胁，对韩国的偶尔袭击，行事古怪的领导人，激进的宣传——朝鲜让全世界有充分的理由发问。随着其核计划和导弹计划的扩张，朝鲜于上周进行了第五次核试验，让这种关切变得更加迫切。
But political scientists have repeatedly investigated this question and, time and again, emerged with the same answer: North Korea’s behavior, far from crazy, is all too rational.
不过，一些政治学专家反复研究了这一问题，一次次得出相同的结论：朝鲜的行径绝非疯狂，而是太过理性。
Its belligerence, they conclude, appears calculated to maintain a weak, isolated government that would otherwise succumb to the forces of history. Its provocations introduce tremendous danger, but stave off what Pyongyang, the country’s capital, sees as the even greater threats of invasion or collapse.
他们认为，它的好战似乎是刻意为之，旨在维系脆弱而又孤立的朝鲜政府，否则，这个政府可能会成为历史的尘埃。它的挑衅带来了巨大的危险，却让自己免于遭到入侵或者走向崩溃，而这些才是平壤眼中更大的危险。
Denny Roy, a political scientist, wrote in a still-cited 1994 journal article that the country’s “reputation as a ‘crazy state'” and for “reckless violence” had “worked to North Korea’s advantage,” keeping more powerful enemies at bay. But this image, he concluded, was “largely a product of misunderstanding and propaganda.”
政治学者饶义(Denny Roy)在1994年发表的一篇期刊论文至今仍有人引用，文中称，“疯狂国度”以及“鲁莽暴戾”的名声“让朝鲜占据了优势”，使它那些更为强大的敌人受到了牵制。但他认为，这种形象“基本是误解和宣传的产物”。
In some ways, this is more dangerous than irrationality. While the country does not want war, its calculus leads it to cultivate a permanent risk of one — and prepare to stave off defeat, should war happen, potentially with nuclear weapons. That is a subtler danger, but a grave one.
从某种意义上说，这比非理性还要危险。朝鲜并不想开战，但按照自己的盘算，它制造了永久存在的战争风险，还为一旦开战该如何避免战败做着准备——有可能会借助核武器。这种危险更为微妙，但却十分严重。
— Why scholars believe North Korea is rational
学界为什么认为朝鲜是理性的？
When political scientists call a state rational, they are not saying its leaders always make the best or most moral choices, or that those leaders are paragons of mental fitness. Rather, they are saying the state behaves according to its perceived self-interests, first of which is self-preservation.
政治学者如果把一国称为理性国家，并不是说它的领导人总会做出最好的或者最符合道德规范的抉择，也不是说这些领导人是精神健康的典范，而是说这个国家会以其看重的自身利益为行事依据，而居于首位的便是自我保护。
When a state is rational, it will not always succeed in acting in its best interests, or in balancing short-term against long-term gains, but it will try. This lets the world shape a state’s incentives, steering it in the desired direction.
倘若一个国家是理性的，那它虽然并非总能成功地让自身利益最大化，或者成功地平衡短期利益和长期利益，但它会努力去做。这就让外界得以塑造一个国家的驱动力，并引导其沿着希望的方向前进。
States are irrational when they do not follow self-interest. In the “strong” form of irrationality, leaders are so deranged that they are incapable of judging their own interests. In the “soft” version, domestic factors — like ideological zeal or internal power struggles — distort incentives, making states behave in ways that are counterproductive but at least predictable.
不依据自身利益行事的国家则是非理性的。如果行为模式的非理性色彩很“浓”，领导人会变得分外疯狂，无法就自身利益做出判断。如果非理性色彩较“淡”，国内因素——比如意识形态上的狂热或者内部的权斗——会让其动机变得扭曲，导致国家以适得其反但至少是可以预测的方式行事。
North Korea’s actions, while abhorrent, appear well within its rational self-interest, according to a 2003 study by David C. Kang, a political scientist now at the University of Southern California. At home and abroad, he found, North Korean leaders shrewdly determined their interests and acted on them. (In an email, he said his conclusions still applied.)
目前任职于南加利福尼亚大学(University of Southern California)的政治学者康灿雄(David C. Kang)在2003年做过的一项研究显示，朝鲜的行径虽然可憎，但却是理性的选择，符合其自身利益。他发现，不论涉及国内还是国外，朝鲜领导人都会谨慎地认定自身利益，将其当成行事依据。（他在电子邮件中表示，这一结论依然适用。）
“All the evidence points to their ability to make sophisticated decisions and to manage palace, domestic and international politics with extreme precision,” Kang wrote. “It is not possible to argue these were irrational leaders, unable to make means-ends calculations.”
“所有的证据都证明，他们有能力做出复杂的决策，能极其精确地管理政权、国内和国际政治事务，”康灿雄写道。“无法认为这些是不理性的领导人，不能做出合理的估算。”
— North Korea’s rational irrationality
朝鲜理性的不理性
North Korea’s seemingly unhinged behavior begins with the country’s attempt to solve two problems that it took on with the end of the Cold War and that it should have been unable to survive.
朝鲜表面看来失常的行为，始于该国试图解决它在冷战结束后开始面临的两项问题。这原本是朝鲜无法跨越的两大难题。
One was military. The Korean Peninsula, still in a formal state of war, had gone from a Soviet-American deadlock to an overwhelming tilt in the South’s favor. The North was exposed, protected only by a China that was more focused on improving ties with the West.
其中一个是军事上的。朝鲜半岛尽管名义上依然处在战争状态，但已从美苏僵局走向天平大大倾向于韩国的局面。朝鲜无所依凭，只有中国为它提供保护，而后者当时更关注改善与西方的关系。
The other problem was political. Both Koreas claimed to represent all Koreans, and for decades had enjoyed similar development levels. By the 1990s, the South was exponentially freer and more prosperous. The Pyongyang government had little reason to exist.
另一个问题是政治方面的。朝韩双方均声称自己代表整座朝鲜半岛。在最初的几十年里，两国发展水平相当。到了90年代，韩国的自由和繁荣水平呈几何级数增长。平壤政府几乎要丧失其合法性。
The leadership solved both problems with something called the Songun, or “military-first,” policy. It put the country on a permanent war footing, justifying the state’s poverty as necessary to maintain its massive military, justifying its oppression as rooting out internal traitors and propping up its legitimacy with the rally-around-the-flag nationalism that often comes during wartime.
朝鲜领导层用“先军”政策来同时应对这两个问题。该政策令朝鲜处于一种永久性的战争状态，由此将国内的贫困合理化为维持庞大的军事力量所必须的，将对民众的压迫合理化为铲除国内叛徒的行动，同时以往往在战争时期才会出现的团结在旗帜周围的民族主义来巩固自身的合法性。
From afar, North Korea’s actions look crazy. Its domestic propaganda describes a reality that does not exist, and it appears bent on almost provoking a war it would certainly lose.
外界看来，朝鲜的行动似乎很疯狂。它的国内宣传描述的是一个并不存在的现实，它似乎决心挑起一场注定会失败的战争。
But from within North Korea, these actions make perfect sense. And over time, the government’s reputation for irrationality has become an asset as well.
但从朝鲜国内看，这些行动完全说得通。随着时间推移，朝鲜政府不理性的名声也成为了一种资产。
Scholars ascribe this behavior to the “madman theory” — a strategy, coined by no less a proponent than Richard Nixon, in which leaders cultivate an image of belligerence and unpredictability to force adversaries to tread more carefully.
有学者将这种行为归因于“狂人理论”——正是由理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)本人发明的策略。在这一理论下，领导人会树立起好战而善变的形象，以迫使对手采取更谨慎的行事方式。
Roy, in an interview, said North Korea “intentionally employs a posture of seemingly hyper-risk acceptance and willingness to go to war as a means of trying to intimidate its adversaries.”
饶义在接受采访时说，朝鲜“有意采取一种似乎接受并乐于开战的风险极高的姿态，将它作为一种威慑敌人的手段。”
But this strategy works only because, even if the belligerence is for show, the danger it creates is very real.
但这种策略之所以有效，完全是因为它制造的危险真实存在，哪怕那种好战具有表演性质。
— Is a rational North Korea more dangerous?
理性的朝鲜更危险吗？
In this way, it is North Korea’s rationality that makes it so dangerous. Because it believes it can survive only by keeping the Korean Peninsula near war, it creates a risk of sparking just that, perhaps through some accident or miscalculation.
这样一来，令朝鲜如此危险的正是它的理性。它相信，只有让朝鲜半岛始终处于战争边缘，它才可以存在下去。由此，它的确制造了可能因某种意外或误算而激起战争的风险。
North Korea is aware of this risk but seems to believe it has no choice. For this reason, and perhaps because of the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq and the NATO intervention in Libya against Moammar Gadhafi, it appears to earnestly fear a U.S. invasion. And this is rational: Weak states that face more powerful enemies must either make peace — which North Korea cannot do without sacrificing its political legitimacy — or find a way to make any conflict survivable.
朝鲜知道这种风险的存在，但它似乎觉得自己别无选择。正因如此，朝鲜像是发自内心地担心美国入侵。也或许是因为它看到美国曾带头出兵伊拉克，看到北约干预利比亚内战，对付穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲(Moammar Gadhafi)。这种担忧是合理的：面对更强大的敌人，弱国必然要么讲和，要么找到一个在任何冲突中都可以存活的方法。朝鲜无法在保全自身政治合法性的前提下做到前一点。
North Korea’s nuclear program, some analysts believe, is designed to halt a U.S. invasion by first striking nearby U.S. military bases and South Korean ports, then by threatening a missile launch against the U.S. mainland. While North Korea does not yet have this ability, analysts believe it will within the next decade.
一些分析人士认为，朝鲜开展核计划是为了阻止美国入侵，方式是首先打击美国在周边的军事基地和韩国的港口，然后威胁向美国本土发射导弹。尽管朝鲜目前还不具备这种能力，但分析人士认为，在接下来的十年内它就会具备。
This is the culmination of North Korea’s rationality, in something known as desperation theory.
依据所谓的“绝望理论”，这便是朝鲜理性思维的结果。
Under this theory, when states face two terrible choices, they will pick the least bad option — even if that choice would, under normal conditions, be too costly to consider.
在这一理论下，当政权面临两个糟糕的选择时，它们会选择相对不那么糟糕的一个——哪怕这个选择在通常情况下会代价太大，不该予以考虑。
In North Korea’s case, that means creating the conditions for a war it would most likely lose. And it could mean preparing a last-ditch effort to survive that war by launching multiple nuclear strikes, chancing a nuclear retaliation for the slim chance to survive.
具体到朝鲜身上，这意味着为一场很可能会失败的战争创造条件。它也许还代表着，为了在那场战争中存活下来，朝鲜要准备好孤注一掷地发起多次核袭击，为了一丝生存的希望而冒险尝试核报复行动。
North Korea’s leaders tolerate this danger because, in their calculus, they have no other choice. The rest of us share in that risk — vanishingly small, but nonzero — whether we want to or not.
朝鲜的领导层之所以容忍这种风险，是因为在他们看来，自己没有其他选择。不管愿不愿意，我们其他人都要跟着承担这个风险。它虽然微乎其微，但不等于零。