Annalyn Barbier’s daughter was 6 years old and a nonswimmer when she was invited to spend a week at a friend’s home, which had a pool. Ms. Barbier wanted her daughter to be able to save herself if she landed in the water. So Ms. Barbier, herself an avid swimmer, signed the child up for lessons at a high school near their Brooklyn home.
安娜琳·巴比尔(Annalyn Barbier)的女儿在六岁时完全不会游泳，一次朋友请她来家里玩一星期，而这家人有一个游泳池。巴比尔女士希望女儿万一不慎落水，到时有能力自救。于是，身为游泳爱好者的巴比尔为女儿在离布鲁克林的家不远处的高中，报了一个游泳培训班。
She had no idea how much her daughter feared the water. “She screamed and cried and absolutely refused to go,” Ms. Barbier recalled. “But I told her I paid for the lessons, so I’m going there to watch, and I walked out the door.”
她当时并不知道女儿有那么怕水。“她失声尖叫，嚎啕大哭，死活不肯去培训班，”巴比尔回忆说：“但我告诉她，我已经给她交了学费了，一定会去那儿监督她学会游泳，说完我就走出门外。”
Having never before stayed alone, the child followed, yelling “I hate you” and insisting that she would not get in the pool. But the instructor, who seemed to thrive on tough cases, took her and another equally terrified girl into the water together while Ms. Barbier sat where her daughter could see her.
她的女儿从没独自一人呆在家里，她跟着妈妈跑了出去，大叫着“我恨你”，并且坚持不愿意下水。教练似乎属于愈战愈勇的那种人，把她和另一个同样怕水的小姑娘一起揪到了水里，而巴比尔当时坐在女儿能看到自己的地方。
Both children finished the course without further incident. Ms. Barbier said her daughter, who is now 14, likes to go in the water and can swim well enough to hold her own.
两个小女孩最后都完成了培训，再没闹出什么岔子。巴比尔女士说她女儿现在已经14岁了，她很喜欢下水游泳，而且游得不错，可以不用人在旁指点。
Like Ms. Barbier, I consider swimming an essential life skill, more important to survival than anything children learn in school. Even if children never go swimming, they should know how to swim, because they can fall into water at any time. There are water hazards everywhere — not just at public and private beaches and pools, but also at lakes, ponds, water parks and backyards equipped with so-called kiddie pools.
跟巴比尔女士一样，我也觉得游泳是项必要的生活技能，对于生存而言，游泳比孩子们在学校里学到的任何知识都更重要。就算孩子们并不会去游泳，他们也应当通水性，因为时刻都有可能落水。到处都有险境——不光是公共和私家海滩和泳池，还有湖泊、池塘、水上乐园，以及备有所谓儿童戏水池的后院。
A small child can drown in just two feet of water. The Consumer Product Safety Commission has reported that from 2004 to 2006, 47 children died after becoming submerged in inflatable pools. A small child leaning over the soft side of such a pool can easily fall in headfirst and be unable to stand up quickly enough.
哪怕水深只有两英尺（合30厘米），都有可能让一个儿童溺水。消费者产品安全委员会(The Consumer Product Safety Commission)报告称，自2004年到2006年，有47名儿童在充气水池里溺水身亡。趴在这种水池较软的那一面，儿童很可能会头朝下栽倒，并且无法迅速站起身来。
Even if drowning were not an issue, swimming is an activity that exercises the entire body and can be pursued throughout life. My 93-year-old aunt, Eleanor Diamond, who can barely walk, still swims laps several times a week in a pool across the street from the assisted living facility in which she resides.
就算不是为了免于溺水，游泳还是一项可以锻炼到全身的运动，而且人一辈子都可以游泳。我的姨妈埃莉诺·戴蒙德(Eleanor Diamond)现在已经93岁高龄，她几乎走不了路，住在养老院里，但她每周可以去几次街对面的游泳池游上几圈。
Huge numbers of children are unable to swim, which largely explains why drowning is the second leading cause of death among children ages 1 to 19. Three years ago, the American Academy of Pediatrics updated its policy, reinforcing its advice that children ages 4 and older should learn to swim but also noting that children ages 1 to 4 are less likely to drown if they have had formal swimming lessons.
现在有大量孩童不会游泳，也正因此，溺水成了1-19岁儿童中排名第二位的死因。三年前，美国儿科医生学会( American Academy of Pediatrics)更新安全指引，强调该学会建议4岁以上儿童必须学习游泳，同时指出1-4岁的儿童如果已经上过正规游泳课，溺水的可能性相对较小。
Furthermore, very young children who are comfortable in water are likely to be easier to teach to swim when they are ready to learn formal strokes.
此外，如果幼儿下水时已经非常适应了，那么在开始正规学习泳姿时也会学得更快。
According to the USA Swimming Foundation, about 70 percent of African-American children, 60 percent of Latino children and 40 percent of white children are nonswimmers. Lack of access and financial constraints account only partly for these numbers. Fear, cultural factors and even cosmetic issues play a role as well.
据美国游泳基金(USA Swimming Foundation)介绍，约有70%的非裔美国儿童、60%的拉美裔美国儿童和40%的白人儿童不会游泳。而身边缺乏必要设施及经济条件有限，只是其中的部分原因。恐惧、文化因素、甚至外貌方面的因素，同样起到了一定的作用。
“Before the Civil War, more blacks than whites could swim,” Lynn Sherr, the author of “Swim: Why We Love the Water,” said in an interview. “There are many stories of shipwrecks in which black slaves rescued their owners.”
“在内战前，会水的黑人比白人多，”《游泳：我们为什么爱水》(Swim: Why We Love the Water)一书的作者林恩·谢尔(Lynn Sherr)在一次采访中说：“坊间有很多传说，说的就是黑人奴隶在沉船事故中救了他们的白人主子。”
But as Ms. Sherr learned from Bruce Wigo of the International Swimming Hall of Fame, segregation destroyed the aquatic culture of the black community. “Once whites discovered swimming, blacks were increasingly excluded from public pools and lifeguarded beaches,” Mr. Wigo told her.
但谢尔从国际游泳名人堂(International Swimming Hall of Fame)的布鲁斯·维戈(Bruce Wigo)那里得知，种族隔离毁灭了黑人社群的水上文化，“一旦白人发现了游泳的妙处，黑人就越发不能迈进公众游泳池和提供救生员的海滩半步了，”维戈这样告诉她。
As a result, many minority parents never learned how to swim. Adults who can’t swim often fear the water and, directly or indirectly, convey that fear to their children.
因此很多少数族裔家长一辈子都不会游泳。不谙水性的成年人往往怕水，而且这种恐惧之情可以直接或间接地传递给孩子们。
A second-grade teacher I know who takes her class to the local Y for swimming lessons said one mother refused to give permission for her son to go “because he’s afraid of the water.” The teacher rightly responded that was all the more reason the boy should join his class at the pool.
我认识一个教小学二年级的老师，她在当地的基督教青年会教游泳课，她说有个妈妈不同意让儿子来学游泳，原因是他怕水。这位老师对此给予了正确的回答，说正因为此，这个男孩子更应该来跟大家一起上游泳课。
Cullen Jones, an Olympic gold medalist and record-setting swimmer, nearly became a drowning statistic at age 5 when he was thrown from his inner tube at a water park and remained submerged for 30 seconds. He was saved by resuscitation, after which his parents insisted that he learn to swim.
奥运会游泳项目金牌得主、世界纪录创造者库伦·琼斯(Cullen Jones)在五岁那年险些就成为溺亡者人数中的一个统计数字，当时他在水上乐园玩，结果从游泳圈里甩了出去，沉入水里30秒钟。心肺复苏术救了他的命，自那以后，父母就坚持要求他必须学会游泳。
Through USA Swimming’s Make a Splash campaign, Mr. Jones, who is black, now tours the country encouraging minority children to learn to swim and convincing their parents of the importance of providing lessons.
现在，身为黑人的琼斯参加了美国游泳基金的“击打水花”(Make a Splash)运动，前往美国各地鼓励少数族裔儿童学习游泳，并向他们的家长宣传给子女上游泳课的重要性。
Parents are not always the best teachers, especially for children who are afraid of the water, although a parent should be present and visible to the child during formal swimming lessons.
父母并不一定是孩子们最好的游泳教练，在孩子怕水的情况下尤其如此。但在孩子们接受正规游泳训练时，家长应该到场，并且出现在孩子能看得到的地方。
Try to find instruction best suited to your child’s comfort zone in water. A child who is very frightened or nervous around water may do poorly in a large class; a small class — or even better, individual attention, at least for the first few lessons — is likely to be more effective. Make sure the instructor knows of your child’s reservations.
家长还要尽量找到最契合孩子心理的课程。如果孩子特别怕水或特别紧张，跟一群小朋友一起上课表现也许会很差；上小班——至少在头几次课程中，上一对一的私教课则更好——恐怕会更有效。一定要确保教练了解孩子对游泳的保留态度。
Lessons commonly begin by teaching children not to be afraid of the water. They learn to get their faces wet, blow bubbles, lift their faces up and take a breath. They then learn to float and breathe properly while doing simple strokes like the dog paddle and backstroke.
孩子们上游泳课时，通常是要先学会不要怕水。他们要学习把脸浸湿，吹泡泡，将脸抬起来吸口气。接着学会在水里漂起来，练习简单的泳姿，比如狗趴式或仰泳时学会换气。
But no matter how well a child learns, no child can be made “drown-proof,” said Dr. Jeffrey Weiss, the lead author of the pediatrics academy statement. In addition to learning to swim, children should be closely supervised when in the water.
儿科医生学会声明的第一作者杰弗里·韦斯(Jeffrey Weiss)博士说，不管孩子学得多好，都不可能“免于溺水”危险。在学习游泳时，孩子们只要在水中，就必须受到严格监督。
It is up to parents to establish safety rules and precautions. Rule No. 1: Never swim alone. An adult who knows how to swim should always be present and paying attention to the child, not to a book or a phone. Even older children who are accomplished swimmers should be supervised or, at least, always with a buddy who is a strong swimmer.
父母们要为孩子们订立安全规章和注意事项。规章的头一条是：永远不能单独下水。当孩子下水时，旁边必须有一个会游泳的成年人，而且要一直留意着孩子，而不是把注意力放在书或者手机上。就算较大的孩子已经谙熟水性，但仍需受到监督，至少要跟一个同样游得很好的朋友同行。
The pediatrics academy says those who supervise children in the water should know how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation, just in case. It takes but half a minute for a child to lose consciousness.
儿科医生学会表示，监督孩子们的成年人应学会心肺复苏术以防万一。儿童在半分钟内就可丧失意识。
Children should be taught never to roughhouse in water and never to hold another child underwater, however briefly. They should also know never to cry wolf — yelling for help for fun may mean no help arrives when it is really needed.
此外，家长还应警告孩子永远不能在水中打闹，也不能把别的孩子按到水中，哪怕只有短暂的几秒钟也不行。他们还应知道永远都不能发出假警报——喊救命来逗乐子，也许意味着一旦出事，就真的没人伸出援手。