With the media world abuzz over Sean Penn’s Rolling Stone interview with Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug kingpin known as El Chapo — and the journalism ethics involved in that interview — I wasn’t surprised at a question I got on Twitter over the weekend.
媒体界正在热烈讨论西恩·潘(Sean Penn)为《滚石》杂志(Rolling Stone)采访墨西哥大毒枭、绰号“矮子”(El Chapo)的乔奎因·古兹曼·洛埃拉(Joaquín Guzmán Loera)一事，以及由此引发的新闻伦理问题，所以我并不奇怪，自己在周末期间会在Twitter上收到如下问题。
Josh Weinberger, who describes himself as a writer, editor, thinker and ruminator, put it this way:
自称是作家、编辑、思想家和沉思者的乔希·温伯格(Josh Weinberger)问道： 《纽约时报》到底会不会同意接受这样的条款？
I answered him confidently: “In a word, no.” After all, granting a source that kind of control over a story could seriously compromise the story’s integrity and a news organization’s all-important independence. From my point of view, it is clearly outside the norms of generally agreed-upon journalistic ethics.
我很有把握地回答他：“简单讲，不会。”毕竟，给信源审核一篇报道的内容的权利，有可能会严重损害故事的真实完整，也会损害一家新闻机构最为重要的独立性。在我看来，这显然超出了我们普遍认同的新闻道德范畴。
But I don’t make policy at The Times, or speak for the paper. And, after reading a number of journalists’ views on this — somewhat less black and white than my single word — I decided to ask The Times’s executive editor, Dean Baquet, and its standards editor, Philip B. Corbett, how they would have handled this situation.
但我不是时报的决策者，也无权代表时报说话。在阅读了不少记者对这件事的看法之后——好像并不像我写的“不会”那么黑白分明——我决定问问时报的主编迪恩·巴奎(Dean Baquet)和规范编辑菲利普·B·科比特(Philip B. Corbett)，了解一下他们会如何应对这种情况。
Both were clear: The Times would not agree to prepublication approval. And, by phone, both provided me with thoughtful answers that may be of interest to Times readers.
两人的观点都非常明确：时报不会同意让采访对象预审稿件。在电话中，二人都有引人深思的回答，时报的读者想必也有兴趣了解。
Mr. Baquet said flatly, “It’s hard for me to imagine giving a drug lord preapproval.” He added that he didn’t believe in preapproval in any case, but that in a situation in which a reporter, for example, was trying to do a story on a vulnerable person, someone “with no power or guile” who was not at all press-savvy, “I wouldn’t be outraged at the question.”
巴奎斩钉截铁地讲，“我很难想象让一个大毒枭预审我们的稿件。”他还说，在任何情况下，他都不认同预先审稿，但如果是有些时候，比如记者试图报道一个属于弱势群体的人，对方“没有权力、为人厚道”，对媒体的运作一无所知，“提出这样的要求，我也不会那么愤慨。”
In this situation, it would be an easy call: “Yes, I would have walked away from the interview,” if preapproval were the prerequisite.
但是在这种时候，答案仍很简单：“是的”，如果采访对象必须预审稿件，“我会放弃这个采访机会。”
Mr. Corbett agreed that “we don’t give prepublication approval to anyone.” He said that the magazine world may — and probably does — have different standards and practices for sources’ approval. Some glossy magazines give celebrities the right to approve photographs or cover images as part of negotiations, he noted.
科比特也表示，“我们不会给任何人预先审稿的权力。”他表示，在这方面的标准和信源审稿的具体操作上，杂志界或许有所不同——很有可能也的确如此。他指出，一些时尚杂志会给名人预审照片或封面照的权利，这属于双方商谈的条件。
And even in Times interviews, “there are all kinds of negotiations.” For example, in some cases, The Times will agree to an embargo on an article that governs when it may be published.
就算是时报的采访，“也要进行各种协商。”比如，在有些情况下，时报会同意在特定的时间才发布某篇报道。
Under some circumstances, Mr. Corbett said, reporters may agree to read quotations back to sources — not with the understanding that they will be changed, but so that there can be an opportunity to discuss inaccuracies or misperceptions. The Times has a policy banning after-the-fact “quote approval,” which was once a common practice.
科比特还表示，有些情况下，记者可能会给信源看报道中采用的引语——这里的共识是，此举不是为了让对方修改内容，而是为了能有机会就其中的不准确和误解之处进行商讨。时报有一项政策，禁止信源事后“审核引语”——这曾是业界的通行做法。
Mr. Corbett agreed that the interview was “a great get.”  (And there is no doubt that it’s generated extraordinary readership for Rolling Stone.) And given Mr. Guzmán’s obviously strong desire to tell his story, Mr. Corbett said, there might have been an opportunity to negotiate better terms.
科比特也认同，这个采访机会“抓得不错”。（它无疑给《滚石》杂志带来了非常多的读者。）但科比特还说，考虑到古兹曼明显有非常强烈的倾诉欲望，本该有机会协商出更好的条件。
Although Mr. Corbett was talking only about what The Times would do, and was not criticizing Rolling Stone, he did wonder whether the terms might have been improved with some pushback.
尽管科比特只是在谈论面对这种情况时报会怎么做，而非批评《滚石》杂志，但他的确好奇，在协商过程中，《滚石》杂志如若向对方施压的话，是否可以争取到更有利的条件。
After all, he said, Mr. Guzmán clearly “wanted to get his story out, and he was taking huge risks to do so.”
毕竟，古兹曼明显“很想做这个报道，他为此冒了巨大的风险，”他说。
Update: Over the weekend, I also posed the question on Facebook. A number of people in the news business responded. Here are some samples.
更新：周末期间，我把这个问题发到了Facebook上。不少新闻界人士也对它进行了回应。以下是部分回答。
Raju Narisetti, senior vice president for strategy at Newscorp: “If outcomes matter then the story got what nobody has been able to get ever–a full confession from Guzmán. The more interesting question for me, looking ahead, is will Sean Penn agree to testify in a court as to what he heard Guzmán confess to.”
新闻集团(Newscorp)负责战略的高级副总裁拉朱·纳尔斯提(Raju Narisetti)：“如果说结果也很重要的话，这篇报道拿到了任何人都拿不到的东西——古兹曼的彻底坦白。我更感兴趣的问题是，下一步，西恩·潘会不会同意在法庭上作证，讲述古兹曼向他坦白的内容。”
Richard Tofel, president of ProPublica: “I can’t even understand what the argument in favor of giving pre-approval would be. We just don’t do that. Is the argument that big enough stories should become exceptions to ethical rules?”
ProPublica总裁理查德·托费尔(Richard Tofel)：“我完全无从想象，他们会用什么样的理由来支持预审稿件。我们肯定不会这么做。他们的理由是不是，只要报道足够重要，就应该有例外，不受新闻伦理的约束？”
James Asher, until recently Washington bureau chief of McClatchy News; soon to join Injustice Watch: Everything we know about El Chapo comes through the eyes of police and other law enforcement types. Not saying he’s anything like an angel, but terror isn’t his only weapon. And know more about him in a non-cop way is part of knowing what makes him tick….(Pre-approval) makes me uncomfortable but not because a non-journalist was involved. But I’d rather see the interview and judge it rather than just be dependent on the official version of El Chapo.
直到最近还在担任麦克拉奇报业(McClatchy News)华盛顿分社社长、即将加入Injustice Watch的詹姆斯·阿舍(James Asher)：我们了解的“矮子”，都来自警方及其他执法部门的描述。我倒不是说他是天使般的人物，但制造恐怖肯定不是他唯一的武器。要搞清楚他何以成为他，需要以一种非警察办案的方式对他进行更多了解……（预审稿件）这一点，我也觉得不舒服，但不是因为有一个非新闻界的人士牵涉其中。不过，我还是宁愿有机会看到这个采访，然后对它做出评判，而不是完全依赖官方提供的有关“矮子”的信息。
Sarah Ellison, contributing editor at Vanity Fair: No journalist I know would jump at the chance to give El Chapo pre-publication approval. I’d love to hear from any who would.
《名利场》(Vanity Fair)特约编辑莎拉·埃利森(Sarah Ellison)：我认识的记者都不会为了获得这个采访机会而让“矮子”预先审稿。我倒是想听听那些愿意这么做的记者的说法。
William Grueskin, a professor at Columbia Journalism School: “Once you agree to pre-approval, the story is lost. It doesn’t matter whether your source actually edits it or not; the thought invariably despoils the story, like Justice Frankfurter’s reference to the fruit of the poisonous tree.”
哥伦比亚新闻学院教授威廉·格鲁斯金(William Grueskin)：“一旦你同意采访对象预先审稿，这篇报道就完了。不管你的信源是不是真的对稿件进行了编辑；这种想法都难免会毁掉报道本身，就像弗兰克福特大法官讲过的‘毒树之果’原则一样。”