Chester Bennington, the lead singer of the band Linkin Park, was found dead on Thursday in his home near Los Angeles. The coroner’s office has confirmed that the 41-year-old died of suicide. That’s something I — and so many millions of other Americans suffering from mental illness — have considered.
周四，林肯公园(Linkin Park)乐队的主唱查斯特·本宁顿(Chester Bennington)被发现在洛杉矶附近的家中死亡。验尸官办公室确认这位41岁的歌手死于自杀。那是我以及其他成百上千万罹患精神疾病的美国人都想过的事。
The platinum-selling lead singer was open about his depression and anxiety. In Linkin Park’s single “Heavy,” Bennington sings: “I don’t like my mind right now / Stacking up problems that are so unnecessary / Wish I could slow things down.” And the lyrics in their hit single “Crawling,” deal with substance abuse: “There’s something inside me that pulls beneath the surface / Consuming, confusing.”
这位白金销量的主唱并未掩饰自己的抑郁和焦虑。本宁顿在林肯公园的单曲《沉重》(Heavy)中唱道：“我不喜欢我现在的头脑 / 它堆积了太多不必要的问题 / 希望我能把心情放轻松。”他们的热门单曲《Crawling》的歌词提到药物滥用：“我身体里有什么东西在翻滚 / 强烈而令人迷惑。”
Bennington suffered, but he was not alone. In the United States, nearly one in five adults have some form of mental illness in a given year. That means that 43.8 million adults, nearly twice the population of Australia, experience a mental health disorder every year.
本宁顿遭受了痛苦，但不是只有他一个人是这样。在美国，每年有近五分之一的成年人遭受某种形式的精神疾病。也就是说，每年有4380万成年人遭遇精神障碍，那几乎是澳大利亚人口的两倍。
Yet more often than not, we don’t talk about mental health. And shows like Netflix’s “13 Reasons Why” or artists like indie pop singer Lana Del Rey have sensationalized or glamorized mental illness and suicide rather than taking it seriously.
但我们往往不谈论精神问题。网飞公司(Netflix)的剧集《十三个原因》(13 Reasons Why)或独立流行歌手拉娜·德雷(Lana Del Rey)等艺术家以煽情或美化的态度对待精神疾病和自杀，而不是严肃地对待它们。
Worldwide, 350 million people (that’s 5 percent of the population) suffer from depression every day. And they are suffering – and sometimes dying – in silence because we can’t seem to talk openly about mental health. Middle and high school health classes are the perfect place to begin the dialogue but mental health education in the classroom is essentially nonexistent.
全世界每天有3.5亿人（占总人口的5%）遭受抑郁症的折磨。他们在沉默中忍受折磨，有时在沉默中死亡，因为我们似乎不能公开谈论精神疾病。中学的卫生课堂是开始这场对话的完美场合，但学校的精神疾病教育基本上不存在。
When I began self-harming I was in sixth grade. In my middle school health class we learned about nocturnal ejaculations and how pubic hair would soon be growing all over our bodies but we never talked about our mental health. In high school, as I was becoming more withdrawn, we learned how to put condoms on a banana, we discussed alcohol and drugs while watching a few episodes of “Freaks and Geeks” but we never defined illnesses like depression, anxiety, personality disorders, suicide or PTSD, or learned that 50 percent of lifetime cases of mental illness begin by age 14.
我从六年级起开始自残。在中学的卫生课上，我们了解遗精以及阴毛会如何很快遍及全身，但我们从未讨论过精神健康问题。高中时，我变得更加孤僻，我们知道如何把避孕套套到香蕉上，我们一边看着《怪胎与书呆》(Freaks and Geeks)，一边讨论酒精和药物，但我们从未讨论过抑郁症、焦虑症、性格障碍、自杀，或创伤后应激障碍(PTSD)，也不知道50%的终生精神疾病始于14岁。
In college, I became even more depressed. I would cry myself to sleep. My weight fluctuated by 10 to 20 pounds each semester. I would drink to forget and in my drunken blurs I leaned far too heavily and unfairly on friends who were just as lost and scared as I was. During what felt like the worst period of my depression, I took a health and wellness class my junior year. In that class, we discussed nutrition, healthy relationships and conflict resolution skills. We even had a unit on “stress management and resiliency.” But we never talked about mental illness or how to recognize or treat it.
在大学里，我变得更加抑郁。我哭累了才能睡着。每学期，我的体重波动幅度达10磅至20磅。我为了遗忘而喝酒，在醉酒的朦胧中，我太多地、也太不公平地依赖和我一样迷茫和恐惧的朋友们。大三时，在我自己感觉最抑郁的时期，我选修了一门卫生保健课程。我们在课上讨论营养、健康的恋爱关系和冲突解决技巧。甚至有一个单元是关于“压力管理和复原力”。但我们从未讨论过精神疾病，以及如何识别或治疗它。
And the truth is that everyone can benefit from learning about mental health. It shouldn’t scare us; it should light a fire under us to ensure that people across the United States and the world can recognize these illnesses like they would high cholesterol or asthma or any other health condition.
事实上，每个人都能从了解精神疾病中受益。它不应该令我们恐惧，而应该唤醒我们，确保美国和全世界的人能识别这种疾病，就像能识别高胆固醇和哮喘等疾病那样。
We should not be afraid to put a name to these illnesses. Chester Bennington wasn’t. We should not be afraid to come forward or tell our stories about our struggles with these issues. We should be open to learning the symptoms and the signs of mental health disorders. We should encourage everyone (not just those with mental health issues) to seek therapy because therapy is good for your mind just as exercise is good for your body.
我们不应该害怕知道这些疾病的名字。查斯特·本宁顿不害怕。我们不应该害怕站出来，讲出我们与这些疾病斗争的故事。我们应该对了解精神疾病的症状和迹象持开放态度。我们应该鼓励每个人（而不只是有精神问题的人）寻求治疗，因为治疗有益于你的头脑，就像锻炼有益于身体那样。
If it was not for my family and friends, who knows what would have happened to me. But I do know that if I had learned about depression and anxiety, or even that therapy is an option, when I was 11, I wouldn’t be staring at my faded scars as I write this. We must push the conversation about mental illness forward whether it be in the classrooms of public schools or with our families and friends. These issues are real and lethal, and the first means of prevention is acknowledging their existence.
如果不是因为我的家人和朋友，天知道我会出什么事。但我确实知道，如果我11岁时就了解抑郁症和焦虑症，哪怕只是知道它们是可以治疗的，我就不会在写下这句话时看着自己褪色的伤疤。我们应该推动关于精神疾病的谈话，不管是在公立学校的教室里，还是和家人、朋友的交流。这些疾病是真实的、致命的，预防的第一步是承认它们的存在。