CAMBRIDGE, Massachusetts — In the northeast Chinese city of Harbin this week, the air pollution was so thick that schools were closed, traffic became gridlocked and flights in and out of the metropolis were canceled. For years, severe air pollution and ever rising carbon emissions have been downsides to China’s economic growth, even as that growth has lifted more than 600 million people out of poverty.
马萨诸塞州坎布里奇——本周，中国东北部城市哈尔滨的空气污染如此严重，导致学校停课、交通堵塞、进出这个大城市的航班全部取消。多年来，严重的空气污染和不断增加的碳排放对中国的经济增长造成了负面影响，虽然这种增长已使6亿人脱离了贫困。
It may come as a surprise, then, that the world’s most populous nation (at 1.35 billion) has spent so enormously to reduce air pollution and to limit carbon dioxide emissions, the main driver of climate change. In fact, its investments to decarbonize its energy system have dwarfed those of any other nation. And its forceful regulation to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions from power plants may be one of the most swiftly effective air pollution policies ever implemented anywhere. Those emissions fell sharply from 2006 to 2010, according to a new study by Chinese and American researchers that we took part in, preventing as many as 74,000 premature deaths from air pollution in 2010.
这个世界上人口最多的国家（总人口为13.5亿）竟然会在减少空气污染及限制二氧化碳排放——气候变化的主要动因——方面投入这么多，或许让人感到吃惊。其实，中国在使能源系统脱碳上的投入让其他任何国家都望尘莫及。而且它为了减少发电厂的二氧化硫排放所采取的强力举措，或许在世界上实施过的空气污染治理政策中，也属见效最快的一个。我们参加的一项中美联合新研究表明，从2006年到2010年，这些污染物的排放量大幅下降，2010年共使多达7.4万人避免因为空气污染而早逝。
So why are China’s efforts at emissions control falling short?
那么，中国控制排放的措施为何还不奏效呢？
There are several reasons. One of them is China’s instinctual response to such challenges: a top-down approach to try to engineer its way through them according to master plans. The result is that China may be winning battles but not the wars on emissions control, because its faith in mandates has met its match: an economy that is growing too fast, and atmospheric challenges that are too multifaceted for even the smartest planners to tame.
这里有几个原因。其中一个是中国对此类问题的本能反应：他们试图根据总体规划，用至上而下的策略来逐一解决这些问题。结果就是，中国或许在某些方面占了上风，但是在控制排放的战争中却非如此，因为它对指令的坚信不移遇到了对手：经济增长过快，以及由于涉及层面太多、连最聪明的规划师都无法驾驭的大气问题。
Indeed, air quality in many cities has sometimes been terrible this year, especially in the north. Last January, Beijing’s level of fine particles, equal to or under 2.5 microns in diameter and known as PM 2.5, reached at least 20 times the level recommended by the World Health Organization for a 24-hour period. This prompted a scrambling government to ram through new air-quality protections, announced on Sept. 12.
的确，许多城市今年的空气质量时而都会很糟糕，特别是北方城市。今年1月，北京的细颗粒物——直径不大于2.5微米的颗粒物，即PM 2.5——的水平至少达到了世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)推荐的24小时均值的20倍。因此，慌乱的政府不得不强行通过新的空气质量保护措施，并于9月12日对外公布。
You might think that China’s success in reducing sulfur dioxide, which reacts with other chemicals to form PM 2.5, might have resulted in a lasting reduction of these fine particles, which are particularly dangerous because they penetrate deep into the lung and can enter the bloodstream. But PM 2.5 takes many chemical forms and is produced in many ways, including from other gases.
二氧化硫能与其他化学物质反应生成PM 2.5，这种颗粒物能深入肺部进入血液循环，所以尤其危险。你或许认为，中国在减少二氧化硫方面取得的成功或许已使这种细颗粒物持续减少。但是，PM 2.5有多种化学形式，其产生的途径也多种多样，其他气体也能导致它的形成。
And this is one reason China’s successful control of sulfur dioxide is hardly incompatible with a rise in PM 2.5 since 2010. In fact, research by Wang Yuxuan and colleagues at Tsinghua University suggests that reducing sulfur dioxide emissions can even increase fine particle levels over all in north China in winter, because it frees another pollutant, ammonia, to react instead with nitric acid to form PM 2.5. Evidence is also growing that China’s winter climate may be changing in ways that foster episodic accumulation of fine particles, consistent with unusually stagnant meteorological conditions last January.
这也是自2010年以来，中国对二氧化硫的成功控制与PM 2.5的增加并不矛盾的原因之一。实际上，清华大学的王聿绚和她的同事所进行的研究表明，减少二氧化硫的排放甚至会导致中国北方冬季的细颗粒物水平整体增加，因为这样会使另一种污染物氨能自由与硝酸发生反应，形成PM 2.5。有越来越多的证据表明，中国冬季的气候或许正在朝促进细颗粒物间歇性累积的方向变化，今年1月极其利于污染物滞留的气象条件正是如此。
Such complexities caution against assuming that poor air quality results only from a failure to try to prevent it. The atmosphere is a complicated physical and chemical system that varies by region, and China’s atmospheric knowledge base is just developing. Air quality prescriptions are only as good as the science that informs them, and China’s air pollution is both rapidly evolving and only partly understood in the first place.
这种复杂情况告诫我们，不要想当然地认为糟糕的空气质量就是由于我们未能成功地阻止它的形成。大气是一个复杂的物理和化学系统，每个地区各不相同，而且中国对大气的认知才刚刚开始。提高空气质量的解决方案与其背后的科学水平相应，中国的空气污染状况在快速地发生变化，而且人们从一开始对它的了解就很有限。
China’s faltering progress on air quality resembles its record on carbon dioxide. Its carbon emissions have been rising by about 8 percent a year since 2007 and increased from nearly 14 percent of global emissions in 2000 to 27 percent in 2011. This is in spite of China’s huge investments to decarbonize its energy system. In less than 10 years it has built the world’s largest wind power capacity, with plans to triple it from current levels by 2020. Its hydropower capacity, also the largest in the world, is expected to triple from 2005 to 2020, and its nuclear capacity will multiply at least sixfold by then. And China is increasing imports and production of natural gas, the cleanest fossil fuel. But all of this is cold comfort to a Beijing citizen wheezing behind her face mask after a smoggy day, or a Sichuan farmer wondering if climate change is to blame for his declining rainfall.
中国在提高空气质量上的止步不前与它的二氧化碳纪录相关。自2007年以来，中国的碳排放每年大约增加8%，在全球排放中所占比例由2000年的近14%增加到了2011年的27%。而且，这还是中国在降低能源系统碳排放方面进行了大量投资的背景下。在不到10年的时间内，中国拥有了世界上最大的风能发电装机容量，并计划到2020年时，把这个规模增加两倍。中国的水力发电装机容量也是世界上最大的，而且预计将在2005年至2020年间增加两倍，而到那时，其核能发电量将至少增加五倍。此外，中国还在增加最清洁的化石燃料天然气的进口量和生产量。但是，这一切都不能给在雾霾天带着口罩艰难呼吸的北京市民，或质疑干旱是否与气候变化有关的四川农民带来多少安慰。
China’s longstanding reliance on central planning and piecemeal approach to pollution control may be a cause. Its successful abatement of sulfur dioxide, for example, resulted from the mandated deployment of scrubbers and forced replacement of inefficient old power plants, motivated by numerical reduction targets to reduce sulfur emissions and increase energy efficiency. Similar targets were included in the current five-year plan, and others have driven the development of low-carbon energy supply and consumption.
中国长期依赖中央计划与零敲碎打的方式来控制污染，这或许也是原因之一。比方说，中国之所以能成功地减轻二氧化硫污染，是因为强制安装洗涤塔，并强行淘汰了低效的老发电厂，背后的动力是减少硫排放并提高能效的数字减排目标。类似的目标出现在了当前的五年计划中，还有另外一些目标已促进了低碳能源供应与消费的发展。
This use of national targets and technology mandates reflects the legacy and power of central planning in China. It is also a result of careful study of what has worked in the West. Much of the credit for the largely blue skies in America today goes to command-and-control regulations, and America’s carbon policy currently consists of similar mandates, notably fuel-efficiency standards for cars and, now, proposed standards for new power plants.
采用国家目标加上强制推行技术应用的做法反映了中国中央计划的惯性，以及这种计划的影响力。它同时也来自详细研究在西方奏效的方法。美国今天大多湛蓝的天空，很大程度上要归功于指令加控制(command-and-control)的监管方式，而且美国目前的碳政策也包含类似的强制措施，尤其是车辆的燃油效率标准，以及提议中的适用于新发电厂的标准。
But the unprecedented pace of China’s economic transformation makes improving China’s air quality a moving target. Focusing on one key pollutant from one major industry, as China’s planners did from 2006 to 2010, is beneficial but insufficient, because unforeseen growth in emissions from other sectors and of other pollutants overwhelms the gains. And it is hard to see how China can centrally decarbonize its energy system more than it is already attempting to do, which is not succeeding fast enough to protect the climate.
然而，中国经济转型的步伐前所未有，这让改善空气质量成为了移动的靶子。2006年到2010年间，中国的规划部门把重点放在一个大行业的一种关键污染物上。这种做法不无裨益，但并不足够，因为之前未能预见到的其他行业与其他污染物的排放抵消了这方面的进展。很难看到，除去已有的尝试，中国还能如何从中央层面上进一步去除其能源体系中的碳；而目前的做法还不够成功，无法有效地保护气候。
Many environmental economists lament the inefficiencies of technology mandates, promoting instead policies to put prices on emissions and allow markets, not the government, to determine the best technological responses. If economic growth is overwhelming the best efforts of China’s planners, harnessing the power of markets may offer the most hopeful prospect for a more pervasive, truly economywide, solution.
许多环境经济学家指责强制推行技术应用的做法效率低下，提倡给排放定价，让市场而非政府来决定最好的技术解决方案。如果说经济增长正在抵消中国规划部门的最大努力，那么利用市场的力量，或许会为一种更全面、真正涉及各个经济部门的解决方案带来最大的希望。
Carbon can be priced by either a cap-and-trade system, with which China has begun experimenting, or more simply with a tax, as China’s finance minister, Lou Jiwei, and several top research institutes have been promoting.
碳的定价可以用碳排放限额交易(cap-and-trade)体系来实现，也可以采用更直接的碳税。前一种方式已经在中国开始试验，后一种得到了财政部长楼继伟及数家知名研究机构的支持。
Like these institutes, our group has studied the impact of carbon tax policies. We estimate that a modest tax on carbon dioxide, starting small and rising to about $10 per ton in 2020, could sharply lower the growth of emissions with little effect on G.D.P. growth and consumption over the long run. In the short run, some energy-intensive industries and segments of the population would incur losses, but the tax revenues offer a source for compensating them during an adjustment period. This result is compelling but not unique to China; it illustrates the same economic reasoning that drives advocacy of carbon taxes around the world, including by American economists across the political spectrum.
与这些机构类似，我们小组也研究了碳税政策的影响。我们估算，对二氧化碳征少量的税，从小税率开始，逐步上升到2020年的每吨10美元（约合61元人民币），就能极大地减缓排放的增长，同时对GDP的增长和消费没有多少长期影响。短期看来，一些能源密集型行业及部分人口会遭受损失，但碳税收入可以用作在调整期内对其进行补偿。这一结果令人信服，而且不限于中国；它证明了世界各地倡导碳税的声音背后同样的经济逻辑，而这种声音中也包括来自持各种政治观点的美国经济学家。
In China’s case, however, there is a huge bonus that should raise some smiles behind the ubiquitous face masks. Precisely because China’s severe pollution results chiefly from coal and oil combustion, a carbon tax would deliver a potent ancillary benefit: reduced concentrations of an array of air pollutants. We estimate that the same tax would prevent as many as 89,000 premature deaths a year from pollution exposures by 2020, and even improve agricultural productivity. A larger tax, of course, would bring greater health benefits.
而且，具体到中国，碳税还能带来一种额外的巨大好处，会让随处可见的口罩背后浮现笑容。正是由于中国的严重污染主要源于煤炭与石油燃烧，碳税将会呈现一种强有力的附带效应：降低一系列大气污染物的浓度。根据我们的估算，同样的税率到2020年可以每年阻止多达8.9万例的早逝，甚至还能提高农业生产率。当然，更高的碳税将会带来更大的健康收益。
While a carbon tax cannot substitute for a comprehensive air quality strategy — including expanded support for fundamental atmospheric science — it would be a powerful jump-start in exactly the right direction.
尽管碳税不能取代综合的空气质量政策——其中包括增加对基础大气科学研究的支持——但它可以成为朝着精准的正确方向前进的有力开端。
This approach offers a real chance for China to limit both carbon emissions and air pollution at little cost to economic growth, all in one relatively straightforward policy. It may be an opportunity that nobody, in or out of China, can afford to ignore.
这种方式提供了一种真正的机会，让中国在不付出多少经济增长代价的情况下，同时限制碳排放和空气污染，并且全部整合到一种相对直接的政策中。这个机会，恐怕无人能忽视，无论是在中国，还是在其他地方。