Speaking to Diana Yen about food, it instantly becomes clear that she’s a sucker for not just the fresh and seasonal — the Union Square farmer’s market is her first and favorite stop for groceries — but also for ingredients made great by attention to the smallest of details. “My second stop would be Eataly. I love the way that they take care of their lettuce,” she begins to explain, breaking into a fit of laughter as she realizes how neurotic this sounds. “They have this really sophisticated sprinkling system, so the lettuce never gets too drenched, and it’s never dry — it’s just perfect. I see them pamper their vegetables, so I trust them.”
和戴安娜·严（Diana Yen，音译）谈起食物，很快就会发现她热爱新鲜的和应季食物——纽约联合广场上的农作物市场是她采购的第一站，也是她最喜欢去的地方；但她也同样关注那些会令食材吃起来很棒的小细节。“我的第二站将是Eataly市场。我喜欢他们照顾莴苣的方式，”她说着，意识到自己有些神经质，便爆发出一阵笑声。“他们有很精密的喷洒系统，所以莴苣不会蔫掉，也不会枯萎——太完美了。我看到他们宠爱那些蔬菜，所以我信任他们。”
Back in 2009, the 33-year-old food stylist, recipe consultant and designer co-founded the Jewels of New York — “It’s basically a food studio where we have a test kitchen, and we test recipes and shoot recipes and shoot dishes and do a lot of consulting work,” she explains. The tantalizing photos of original recipes-in-the-works on the studio’s website have earned her a cult following ever since. Now she runs the small Lower East Side company solo (and counts foodie magazines like Cherry Bombe and Kinfolk as clients). And this week, she releases her first cookbook, which is organized by seasons and designed to encourage communal eating.“
2009年，这位33岁的食品造型师、食谱顾问兼设计师与人合作创立了“纽约珍宝”(the Jewels of New York)。“它基本上是一个食品工作室，我们有一个试验厨房，我们试验各种食谱，拍摄各种食谱和菜，还做了很多咨询工作，”她解释。工作室网站上有按食谱准备中的菜肴的诱人照片，为她赢得了一批拥趸。现在她独自在下东区开了一家小公司，已经得到了《樱桃炸弹》(Cherry Bombe)和《亲戚》(Kinfolk)等食品杂志作为客户。这星期，她最新的烹饪书也出版了，内容按季节编辑，希望鼓励大家一起用餐。
Getting people together to eat is kind of an amazing thing,” the California native says. Yen frequently hosts dinner parties with the creative types she counts as friends, like Nicholas Andersen and Julie Ho, the artistic duo behind Confetti System, who once worked at Martha Stewart and invited Yen to demo cookies on the show there, thus launching her culinary career; Jade Lai, the visionary behind Creatures of Comfort, who shared a studio space with Yen in the earliest days of Jewels; and the florists Sarah Ryhanen and Nicolette Owen, whose coveted arrangements grace the pages of “A Simple Feast: A Year of Stories and Recipes to Savor and Share” (Roost Books, $30).
“把人们聚集在一起吃饭是一件有意思的事，”这位加利福尼亚人说。严经常为她的朋友们——一些创意人士举办晚宴派对，比如尼古拉斯·安德森(Nicholas)和朱莉·何(Julie Ho)，他们是“康菲提系统”(Confetti System)背后的艺术家，曾经为玛莎·斯图尔特(Martha Stewart)工作，并邀请严去斯图尔特那里展示小甜饼，她就是这样开始了自己的烹饪事业。此外还有杰德·莱(Jade Lai)，他是“舒适动物”(Creatures of Comfort)的视觉总监，早年闫在“纽约珍宝”时，曾经和她共用一个工作室；莎拉·利安农(Sarah Ryhanen)和尼可莱特·欧文(Nicolette Owen)是卖花者，她们的美丽商品装点了《简单盛宴：一年的故事与食谱，用来品尝与分享》(A Simple Feast: A Year of Stories and Recipes to Savor and Share, Roost Books, $30)中的插图。
In the book, Yen shares her tricks for pulling off memorable meals — like finishing nearly everything, from crisp radishes slathered with citrus tarragon butter to gooey espresso chocolate chip cookies, with a sprinkle of Maldon sea salt. “Having just the right amount of salt makes the flavor sing,” she’ll tell you. For those in the New York area, there are still tickets available to the cookbook’s launch party at the PowerHouse Arena in Brooklyn on Wednesday, where the food will come courtesy of none other than the Jewels of New York.
在这本书中，严分享了自己如何做出令人难忘的一餐的窍门——如何装饰餐桌上的一切，从涂满橘子酱的脆萝卜到粘稠的浓咖啡巧克力屑点心，上面喷洒一层马尔顿海盐。“用适当的盐激活味道，”她在书中告诉你。住在纽约的人还可以领取这本书发布派对的门票，地点在布鲁克林的动力室剧场(PowerHouse Arena)，派对上的食物正是来自“纽约珍宝”。