So you have this neighbor who has been making your life hell. First he tied you up with a spurious lawsuit; you’re both suffering from huge legal bills. Then he threatened bodily harm to your family. Now, however, he says he’s willing to compromise: He’ll call off the lawsuit, which is to his advantage as well as yours. But in return you must give him your car. Oh, and he’ll stop threatening your family — but only for a week, after which the threats will resume.
有个邻居一直在找你麻烦。他先是无中生有地起诉你，你们俩都要背负巨额的诉讼费。然后，他又威胁伤害你的家人。但是现在，他却想要“妥协”：他打算撤诉——这对你们双方都是好事。但作为回报，你必须把你的汽车送给他。对了，他还说不会再威胁你的家人——但这个承诺只能维持一个星期，过后他还会照旧威胁。
Not much of an offer, is it? But here’s the kicker: Your neighbor’s relatives, who have been egging him on, are furious that he didn’t also demand that you kill your dog.
这也算是妥协？等等，还有更不可思议的：你邻居的亲戚一直在背后教唆他，现在这些亲戚十分愤怒，他们觉得你的邻居还应该要求你把自己的狗杀掉。
And now you understand the current state of budget negotiations.
现在你就明白当前的预算谈判是怎么回事了吧。
Stocks surged last Friday in the belief that House Republicans were getting ready to back down on their ransom demands over the government shutdown and the debt ceiling. But what Republicans were actually offering, it seems, was the “compromise” Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, laid out in a Wall Street Journal op-ed article: rolling back some of the “sequester” budget cuts — which both parties dislike; cuts in Medicare, but with no quid pro quo in the form of higher revenue; and only a temporary fix on the debt ceiling, so that we would soon find ourselves in crisis again.
上周五股市大幅上涨，因为人们以为，在政府关门和债务上限的问题上，众议院共和党人已经打算放弃一些“赎金”要求。但是，共和党人提出的要求，似乎正是众议院预算委员会(House Budget Committee)主席保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)在《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)的一篇评论文章上提出的“妥协”方案：撤销“自动减赤”(sequester)计划中的一些预算削减——两党都反对“自动减赤”；削弱联邦医疗保险(Medicare)，但是不会以增加税收作为交换条件；仅仅是暂时解决债务上限的问题，但这样我们很快会再次陷入危机。
I do not think that word “compromise” means what Mr. Ryan thinks it means. Above all, he failed to offer the one thing the White House won’t, can’t bend on: an end to extortion over the debt ceiling. Yet even this ludicrously unbalanced offer was too much for conservative activists, who lambasted Mr. Ryan for basically leaving health reform intact.
我不认为瑞安理解了“妥协”的意思。首先，他未能提出白宫唯一不会也不能妥协的条件：不要再用债务上限的问题敲诈勒索。然而，即使是这个不公平到荒唐的方案也未能让保守派活动人士满意。他们抨击瑞安基本上没有触及医保改革。
Does this mean that we’re going to hit the debt ceiling? Quite possibly; nobody really knows, but careful observers are giving no better than even odds that any kind of deal will be reached before the money runs out. Beyond that, however, our current state of dysfunction looks like a chronic condition, not a one-time event. Even if the debt ceiling is raised enough to avoid immediate default, even if the government shutdown is somehow brought to an end, it will only be a temporary reprieve. Conservative activists are simply not willing to give up on the idea of ruling through extortion, and the Obama administration has decided, wisely, that it will not give in to extortion.
这是否意味着我们要触及债务上限了？非常有可能；没人知道答案，但是细心的观察人士认为，在把钱花光之前，达成任何协议的可能性不会高于50%。除此之外，我们现在的失灵看起来像是一个长期问题，而不是一次性的。即使债务上限被提高到足以暂时避免债务违约的程度，即使政府停摆能以某种方式结束，那也只是暂时缓口气。保守派活动人士根本不会放弃通过敲诈来达到目的的想法，而奥巴马政府已经下定决心，面对敲诈绝不让步，这很明智。
So how does this end? How does America become governable again?
那么，这种状况将如何收场？美国怎样才能回到可以治理的状态？
One answer might be that we somehow stumble through the next 13 months, and voters punish Republican tactics by returning the House to Democratic control. Recent polls do show a large Democratic advantage on the generic House ballot. But remember, Democratic House candidates already “won” in 2012, in the sense that they received more votes in total than Republicans. Yet the vagaries of district boundaries — partly, but not entirely, the result of gerrymandering — meant that the Republican majority in seats remained, and it would probably take a really huge Democratic sweep to dislodge G.O.P. control.
一个可能的结果是，我们再熬13个月，让选民们通过投票惩罚共和党的所作所为，把众议院的控制权交给民主党。最近的民调的确显示，民主党在众议院选举中会有较大优势。但是别忘了，众议院的民主党候选人在2012年实际上“赢了”，也就是说，他们总得票数高于共和党。然而奇怪的选区划分——部分原因在于选区划分不公，但这并不是全部原因——导致共和党仍然取得了多数席位，民主党或许需要大幅领先才能夺走共和党对众议院的控制。
There is, however, another solution, and everyone knows what it is. Call it Dixiecrats in reverse.
其实，还有另一种解决办法，而且人人心知肚明，可以把它称作“南部民主党人”(Dixiecrats)的相反情形。
Here’s the precedent: For a long time, starting as early as 1938, Democrats generally controlled Congress on paper, but actual control often rested with an alliance between Republicans and conservative Southerners who were Democrats in name only. You may not like what this alliance did — among other things, it killed universal health insurance, which we might otherwise have had 65 years ago. But at least America had a functioning government, untroubled by the kind of craziness that now afflicts us.
过去发生的事是这样的：很长一段时间里，最早从1938年开始，民主党人表面上基本控制了国会，但是实际上的控制权通常掌握在共和党和一些南方保守派人士组成的联盟手中，后者徒有民主党人之名，并无民主党人之实。你可能不会喜欢这个联盟的所作所为，其中一项就包括，他们扼杀了全民医保，如果不是他们，我们65年前或许就有全民医保了。但美国当时至少还有正常运作的政府，没有困扰于现在折磨我们的这种疯狂。
And right now we have all the necessary ingredients for a comparable alliance, with roles reversed. Despite denials from Republican leaders, everyone I talk to believes that it would be easy to pass both a continuing resolution, reopening the government, and an increase in the debt ceiling, averting default, if only such measures were brought to the House floor. How? The answer is, they would get support from just about all Democrats plus some Republicans, mainly relatively moderate non-Southerners. As I said, Dixiecrats in reverse.
而现在，我们具备了一个类似联盟的所有要素，但是主角的身份正好相反。尽管共和党领袖予以否认，但与我交谈过的所有人都认为，要通过一个长期的解决方案来让政府重新开门，并提高债务上限，从而避免债务违约，其实很容易，只要众议院愿意讨论这样的议案。但是怎样才能做到这一点？答案是，这些议案会得到所有民主党人，以及某些共和党人的支持，主要是相对温和的非南方人。就像我上文所说的，这是“南部民主党人”的相反情形。
The problem is that John Boehner, the speaker of the House, won’t allow such votes, because he’s afraid of the backlash from his party’s radicals. Which points to a broader conclusion: The biggest problem we as a nation face right now is not the extremism of Republican radicals, which is a given, but the cowardice of Republican nonextremists (it would be stretching to call them “moderates”).
问题是众议院议长约翰·博纳(John Boehner)不会允许进行这样的投票，因为他担心党内激进派的强烈反弹。这就指向了一个更宽泛的结论：作为一个国家，我们现在面临的最大问题不是共和党激进派的极端——这是改变不了的，而是共和党非极端人士的懦弱（称他们为“温和派”都有点夸大其词）。
The question for the next few days is whether plunging markets and urgent appeals from big business will stiffen the nonextremists’ spines. For as far as I can tell, the reverse-Dixiecrat solution is the only way out of this mess.
未来几天的问题是，市场迅速下挫和大企业的紧急呼吁能否让非极端人士挺直脊梁。我只能说，“南部民主党人”的相反情形是走出目前乱局的唯一出路。