Independent thinkers find this hard to admit, but when you see crowds of New Yorkers standing outside a bakery or putting their names on the list at the door of a restaurant, more often than not the food they’re hanging around for is worth eating.
有主见的人可能不愿承认，但是如果你看到成群的纽约人站在一个面包店外，或者把自己的名字列入一个餐馆门上的名单里，那他们等待的食物多半值得品尝。
Whether it’s worth the wait is a separate question. In general, though, the crowds know something. Dominique Ansel Bakery is a wonderland, and Maison Premiere’s happy hour is such an amazing bargain that I am afraid that simply mentioning it may spook the owners into charging more than a dollar for each pristine oyster.
值不值得等待是另一个问题。不过总的来说，这些人对这些餐馆有一些了解。多米尼克·安塞尔面包房(Dominique Ansel Bakery)简直是人间仙境，“一号屋”(Maison Premiere)餐馆的减价时段真是太值了，我担心自己在这儿这么一提，老板们就会为每个新鲜的牡蛎多收不止一美元。
There are exceptions to this rule. It does not apply to lines formed by tourists who trade their vacation days for a handful of cake crumbs under a waxy helmet of frosting on Bleecker Street. Nor does it apply to lines for brunch. Be wary of the opinions of people who will endure hunger and hangovers for a free mimosa.
这个规律也有例外。它不适用于巴勒克街的游客们排起的长队，他们宁愿用假期的宝贵时间来交换一把带着蜡白糖霜的蛋糕屑；也不适用于为早午餐排起的长队；而那些愿意为免费含羞草鸡尾酒忍受饥饿和宿醉的人的选择需要引起我们的警惕。
And so far, the rule does not apply to the lines at Han Dynasty in the East Village, a Sichuan restaurant that has been quoting waiting times at dinner of 45 minutes or more since it opened around Labor Day. This is nothing new for its owner, Han Chiang. Lines have been a feature of the six Han Dynasties he operates in and around Philadelphia. Despite his habit of informing customers, in loud and profane terms, that certain items on the menu should not be ordered by anyone but children, Han Dynasty has been so popular that he plans to open 100 locations around the country.
到目前为止，这个规律还不适用于东村汉唐御厨(Han Dynasty)餐馆门外的长队。它是个川菜馆，据说从劳动节（9月的第一个星期一——译注）开业以来，正餐的等待时间超过45分钟。对餐馆老板蒋汉（音译）来说，这不是新闻。长队已经成为他在费城及周边地区开设的六家汉唐御厨的一个特色。尽管他常常大声骂骂咧咧地告诉顾客，菜单上有些菜只有小孩子才会点，但是汉唐御厨非常受欢迎，他计划在全国开设100家。
I can think of quite a few towns where this would be great news, but I’m mystified by the popularity of Han Dynasty in Manhattan, where there are far better Sichuan restaurants. Han Dynasty’s translation of the cuisine has a thick American accent. Many main courses are heavy on sugar, bell peppers and especially MSG, which is often used in great, slashing doses. They come across as close relatives of the kung pao chicken made by the best Chinese takeout in your neighborhood. In fact, your local joint might do this Sichuan crossover hit better than Han Dynasty, whose version was one of the sweetest and least appealing things on the menu.
我能想出好几个城市，对它们来说这是个好消息，但是我不明白为什么汉唐御厨在曼哈顿也这么受欢迎，因为这里有很多比它好得多的川菜馆。汉唐御厨对川菜的演绎具有浓重的美国风味。很多主菜都加入了大量糖、灯笼椒和味精。它们像是你家附近最好的中餐外卖馆做的宫保鸡丁的近亲。实际上，你家附近外卖馆做的这道经典川菜可能比汉唐御厨的还要好，汉唐御厨做的那道菜是它的菜单上最甜、最没吸引力的菜之一。
In the restaurant’s anemic interpretation of cumin lamb, floppy bands of meat, drenched in a syrupy sauce, were too wet to give off any of the amazing fragrance of toasted spices that announce the dish’s arrival before it reaches the table at Szechuan Gourmet in Midtown, Little Pepper in College Point, Queens, or a dozen other restaurants around town.
这家餐馆对孜然羊肉的诠释毫无活力，一团团软塌塌的肉浸泡在糖浆似的酱汁里，太湿了，没有烤辣椒的迷人香味。很多餐馆做的这道菜在没上桌之前你就能闻到这种香味，比如市中心的四川美食家(Szechuan Gourmet)、皇后区大学点的小辣椒(Little Pepper)以及城里的其他十多家餐馆。
Under the menu heading “Shifu Special” (shifu means, roughly, chef) is the classic Taiwanese dish Three Cup Chicken. By tradition, the sauce is made with a cup each of rice wine, soy and sesame oil. Han Dynasty seemed to add a cup of sugar, too, and applied so much sauce that the chicken, meant to be served sizzling, arrived in a caramel soup.
菜单上“师傅精选”（师傅的大概意思是大厨）那一栏有一道经典台湾菜——三杯鸡。按照传统，酱汁是用一杯米酒、一杯酱油和一杯芝麻油做成的。汉唐御厨似乎又加了一杯糖，而且酱汁太多了，本应在上桌时滋滋作响的鸡肉陷在了焦糖汁里。
Apart from the dan dan noodles, which needed more snap from black vinegar, the appetizers were a less cloying crew, their seasoning closer to the Sichuan spirit. Cold rabbit with peanuts in chile oil, with the thrilling, classic combination of red chiles and Sichuan peppercorns, made my lips vibrate like a tuning fork. Dry pepper chicken wings had all the crunch, complexity and aromatic power I’d missed in the cumin lamb.
除了担担面——它需要多加点黑醋——这里的开胃菜还算不让人腻烦，调味更接近四川风味。花生冷兔肉泡在辣椒油中——令人兴奋的、经典的红辣椒和花椒组合——让我的嘴唇像调音叉一样颤抖。干辣椒鸡翅具有我在孜然羊肉中没有尝到的松脆、复杂和香味。
I had hoped that somebody would curse at me when I ordered. It never happened. Actually, the service was unusually friendly and forthcoming with the kinds of detail about the dishes that can be hard to obtain in some Sichuan restaurants. And the egg-yolk-colored paint and modern, Chinese-themed art on the walls give the place some energy. Still, if I want Han Dynasty’s wings again, I’ll get delivery. A 45-minute wait for the doorbell to ring would be well within reason.
我点菜的时候原以为有人会对我冷言冷语。但是完全没有出现这种情况。实际上，这里的服务特别好，随叫随到，服务员能告诉你菜肴的细节，在有些川菜馆你很难得到这样的服务。蛋黄色的墙上挂着中国主题的现代艺术品，给这里带来了一些活力。不过，如果我想再吃汉唐御厨的鸡翅的话，我会叫外卖。用45分钟等门铃响起还是比较合理的。
There are no lines at Hirohisa, which opened last summer on a quiet SoHo block. Instead there are reservations, which lately have not been hard to come by. In some ways, it’s easy to see why the crowds have passed it by. The cooking is very Japanese, in the let-the-ingredients-speak mode that can leave some Americans cold.
裕久(Hirohisa)餐馆没有排起长队。这家餐馆去年夏天在SoHo区一个安静的街区开业。相反，这里接受预订，最近还比较容易订到桌位。从某些方面讲，很容易理解人们为什么会忽略这个餐馆。这里的烹饪方式是典型的日式料理，讲究的是“让原料说话”，有些美国人可能对此不太感冒。
“It’s ... subtle,” one person at my table said.
“这个有点……清淡，”跟我一桌的一个人说。
“Very subtle,” another said.
“非常清淡，”另一个人说。
At times, I agreed. Some of the grilled meat courses, for instance, didn’t leave an impression on my memory as large as the one they left on the bill.
有时我同意他们的观点。比如，有些烤肉主菜留给我的印象不如它们在账单上的高昂价格那么深。
But for the most part, I love the way Hirohisa Hayashi, the chef, brings out the whispering harmonies that result when one small wave of flavor laps against another.
但是总体来说，我喜欢大厨林裕久的做法，他像是在指挥轻柔的和声，让各种清淡的味道相互作用。
He finds those harmonies in the way lightly charred blocks of sesame tofu come together with buttery lobes of sea urchin and shreds of fresh wasabi. And again in the bowl of raw salmon layered over white rice, which becomes a steaming soup as you add roasted green tea from a pot. And again in the gently sweet and seductive stew of lobster in white miso and dashi.
他做的很多菜都有这种和声的效果。微微烧焦的芝麻豆腐块搭配脑叶状的滑腻海胆和新鲜的芥末酱。把壶中的热煨绿茶倒入一碗摆在精白米上的生三文鱼里，它就变成了热气腾腾的鱼汤。微甜、诱人的炖龙虾加入了白味噌和鱼精。
But nuanced flavors can also be potent, as an omakase meal last fall made clear. Mr. Hayashi intensified grilled lamb by marinating it in red miso. Served on top of a hunk of grilled tilefish was a slab of broiled foie gras; the heat chased the fat from the liver, and this became the sauce for the fish. It was a dish to make you shake your head twice, once for how luxurious it felt, and again for how simple it was.
微妙的味道也可以很给力，去年秋天去吃的一次厨师发办料理证明了这一点。林裕久把烤羊肉腌到红味噌里，让它更入味。一大块烤方头鱼上放着一大块烤鹅肝酱，热量把鹅肝中的肥油烤了出来，变成了鱼肉的酱汁。这道菜会让你摇两次头，第一次是因为它看起来如此奢侈，第二次是因为它又如此简单。
Hirohisa is a kappo-style restaurant, a form of Japanese dining in which the chef makes both hot and cold dishes behind a counter. There are two kitchen islands floating at the edge of the serene white dining room, one for cold dishes like sashimi and another where the cooking takes place. You watch the action and relax, drink in hand, as if a friend had invited you over for dinner. In this case, you’re drinking sake from a list of junmai (“subtle rice and water”), junmai ginjo (“unrestrained challenge”) and junmai dai ginjo (“a specific target”).
裕久餐馆是个kappo风格的餐馆，在这种餐馆里，不管热菜还是冷菜，大厨都在柜台后面做。两个圆形厨台在安静的白色就餐区的边缘流动，一个做冷菜，比如生鱼片，另一个做热菜。你手里拿着饮料，放松地看厨师烹制，好像是一个朋友邀请你到自己家里吃饭。不过在这里你喝的是清酒，酒单分为三类：junmai（清淡的米酒）、junmai ginjo（放纵的挑战）和junmai dai ginjo（特殊目的）。
With a carafe on the table, the soft light flowing from alcoves in the ceiling, the chefs bending over their knives, all the lines around the city seem very far away.
桌子上放着玻璃水瓶，天花板凹壁里射出柔和的灯光，厨师们俯身切鱼，城市的喧嚣似乎变得非常遥远。
Han Dynasty
汉唐御厨(Han Dynasty)
Satisfactory
令人满意
90 Third Avenue (12th Street), East Village; 212-390-8685; handynasty.net
东村第三大道（第十二街）90号；212-390-8685; handynasty.net
ATMOSPHERE A neighborhood Chinese joint with contemporary art hanging on sunny yellow walls.
环境：街坊中国小餐馆，金黄色的墙上挂着当代艺术品。
SERVICE Speedy, friendly and adept at guiding novices through the spice levels of Sichuan dishes.
服务：快速，友好，善于给不熟悉的顾客介绍每道菜的辣味等级。
SOUND LEVEL Moderate.
嘈杂程度：中等。
RECOMMENDED Dumplings; won tons; dry pepper chicken wings; rabbit with peanuts in chile oil; mung bean noodle in black bean sauce; dry-pot-style fish.
推荐菜：饺子、馄饨、干辣椒鸡翅、辣椒油花生兔肉、豆豉绿豆面、干锅鱼。
DRINKS AND WINE Draft and bottled beers and a limited wine list.
饮料酒水：生啤和瓶装啤酒，红酒种类不多。
PRICES Appetizers and soups, $3.50 to $10.95; main courses, $11.95 to $23.95.
价格：开胃菜和汤：3.5美元至10.95美元；主菜：11.95美元至23.95美元。
OPEN Daily for lunch and dinner.
营业时间：午餐和晚餐。
RESERVATIONS Not accepted for parties under eight.
预订：不接受少于八人的预订。
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The dining room and accessible restroom are a short step above sidewalk level.
轮椅便利程度：就餐区和无障碍卫生间比人行道高一个很矮的台阶。
Hirohisa
裕久餐馆
★
一星 ★
73 Thompson Street (Spring Street), SoHo; 212-925-1613; hirohisa-nyc.com
SoHo区汤普森大街（斯普林大街）73号；212-925-1613; hirohisa-nyc.com
ATMOSPHERE Two kitchen islands float in a small room with serene, minimalist décor; seating at tables or a counter.
环境：就餐区不大，很安静，采用的是极简主义装修，有两个流动的圆形厨台，可以坐在卡座里或吧台边。
SERVICE Very gracious; English proficiency can vary.
服务：非常亲切；英语水平不一。
SOUND LEVEL Conversational.
嘈杂程度：适于交谈。
RECOMMENDED Grilled sesame tofu with sea urchin; lobster shiro miso ni; atsuage; agedashi; broiled fish; hako sushi; sashimi; omakase menus.
推荐菜：烤芝麻豆腐配海胆、白味噌炖龙虾、炸豆腐片、炸豆腐块、烤鱼、吾吸寿司、生鱼片、厨师发办料理。
DRINKS AND WINE The concise sake list is worth exploring.
饮料酒水：简洁的清酒单值得尝试。
PRICES Appetizers, $8 to $25; main courses, $26 to $36.
价格：开胃菜：8美元至25美元；主菜：26美元至36美元。
OPEN Monday to Saturday for dinner.
营业时间：周一至周六晚餐。
RESERVATIONS Accepted.
预订：接受预订。
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The dining room and accessible restroom are on street level.
轮椅便利程度：就餐区和无障碍卫生间和街道在同一水平面上。
WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer’s reaction primarily to food, with ambience, service and price taken into consideration.
星级含义：星级从0星到4星，主要反映评论者对食物的印象，同时也考虑环境、服务和价格。