My 77-year-old mother taps out e-mails on her iPhone no sweat, but she still asks me, “Will my e-mail address work on that computer?” Instead of admiring her resolve to master the smartphone, I become snarly as I try to explain the concept of portability.
我这位77岁的老母亲用iPhone写起邮件来毫不费力，但她还是会问我，“我的e-mail地址在那个电脑上能用吗？”我非但没有对她学会使用智能手机的决心表示赞赏，反而在跟她解释便携性的概念时烦躁起来。
She happens to be the same age as Teruko Miyata, another woman who is part of a growing group of Japanese seniors who yearn to keep up with popular technology but face the humiliation of struggling to learn how to use the gadgets from people their children’s or grandchildren’s age. “It’s hard to ask young people questions,” she says. “They already assume you know a lot.”
她和宫田光子（Teruko Miyata，音译）恰好同龄，她们都是日渐扩大的日本老年人群体的一员，这个群体渴望了解当前流行的科技手段，但却要忍受屈辱，挣扎着去向他们的儿孙辈学习如何使用这类设备。“向年轻人问问题是件难事，”她说。“他们都假设你已经知道很多了。”
But recently Miyata was sitting at a SoftBank Mobile store counter showing customers how to use the company’s latest smartphone. SoftBank, Japan’s third-largest mobile phone operator, released a smartphone in May geared for seniors — with large icons and simple features — and decided to capture the gray market by training and hiring a “senior crew” to sympathetically explain the know-how to their peers.
但是最近宫田坐在软银移动(SoftBank Mobile)的商店柜台旁，在那里向顾客演示，如何使用公司的最新款智能手机。作为日本第三大移动电话运营商，软银在五月推出了一款专为老年人设计的智能手机，配备了大图标和简单的功能，公司决定培训、雇佣一个“长者团队”，用富有同情心的方式向他们的同辈人解释一些实际的知识，以此来争取这块灰色市场。
Preventing older people from digital isolation is a small but significant endeavor in a country experiencing an unprecedented and frightening pace of aging. Almost one in four people are over age 65 — and that share is expected to approach one in three by 2030.
对这个正经历一场前所未有的、骇人的老龄化的国度来说，避免老年人在数码世界被孤立看似小事，却有着重大意义。将近四分之一的人在65岁以上——预计到2030年这个比例将接近三分之一。
A friend recently observed that when you see a Japanese couple pushing a stroller, there’s usually a tiny dog inside instead of a baby.
一位朋友最近发现，当你看到一对日本夫妇推着婴儿车，车上十有八九是只小狗而不是婴儿。
How the dwindling population will support its pensioners and their medical care remains the country’s most pressing issue, but these days attention is shifting to how to ensure that seniors remain happy and active.
以这样不断缩减的人口规模，如何支撑起退休人员的养老金和他们的医疗保健，始终是这个国家最紧迫的问题，然而时下的关注点正在转向如何确保老年人能快乐、积极地生活。
Japan is in the process of raising the mandatory retirement age from 60 to 65, and beginning this year businesses are required to keep employees on their payroll through age 65 if they request it. But with a life expectancy of 83 years, people still have nearly two decades on their hands. Last year a cabinet-appointed study group urged the nation to stop using 65 as a benchmark and instead to plan for “an era of life into the 90s.” The majority of people over 65 consider 70 the start of old age.
日本正在准备将法定退休年龄从60岁提高到65岁，从今年开始，只要员工要求，企业需要一直聘用他们到65岁。但是以83岁这个寿命预期来看，人们手里还是剩下将近二十年的时间。去年一个内阁任命的研究小组呼吁国家不要再把65岁当作一个转折点，而是要为“迈向鲐背之年的生活”作规划。65岁以上人士大多认为70岁是老年的开始。
Kumiko Yanagi, who runs a gerontology research group and who proposed the senior teaching concept to SoftBank, was surprised at the number of her elderly contacts who signed up to be trained as instructors. “They are looking for chances to learn something new and to feel useful,” she observed.
柳久美子(Kumiko Yanagi)领导着一个老年学研究团队，老年人教学的概念就是她向软银提出的，她对老年人报名接受讲师培训之踊跃感到意外。“他们在寻找学习新东西的机会，希望能发挥一些作用，”她发现。
“Open your books to Page 13,” Miyata tells two female students at the SoftBank shop who flip through an 80-page glossy instruction booklet with large, colorful illustrations. “Push in,” she says, explaining one of the main features of SoftBank’s “Simple Smartphone.” Tapping on sensitive touchscreens is usually the first hurdle for older fingers, so the Simple Smartphone is designed to respond to a firm press. A bright blue pulsating circle signals that the command was received.
“把书翻到第13页，”宫田在软银门店里对两位女性学员说，她们手上正翻着一本80页厚的精美讲解图册，上面有巨大的彩色图画。“按进去，”她在解释软银的“简单智能手机”的一个主要特性时说。点按灵敏的触摸屏通常是老年人的手指遇到的第一个障碍，所以简单智能手机把按钮设计成需要结实按下去才会有反应。手机显示一个亮蓝色的圆环脉冲信号，表示已经接收到指令。
Other special features include a magnifying glass that can be dragged around the screen to enlarge what is on view. There’s an emergency button on the side of the phone that when pushed sounds an alarm and sends an e-mail to registered recipients telling them the location of the owner. Designated e-mail addressees, usually family members, also receive what SoftBank calls an “I’m fine e-mail” the first time the phone is used each day. The message notes that the phone was turned on and reports the number of steps — recorded by a pedometer application — taken by the owner on the previous day.
其他专门设计的特性还包括放大镜，可以在屏幕上拖动，放大某个局部。手机侧面有一个紧急按钮，按下去会发出警报，并向一个事先登记好的收件人发出邮件，告诉他们手机主人所在地点。这个指定的e-mail地址通常是家人的，每天用户第一次使用手机，这个地址还会收到一封“报平安邮件”。邮件中会说明手机已开机，并报告机主昨天的行走步数，这个数据是由一个计步器应用记录下来的。
Japan’s largest mobile-phone operator, NTT DoCoMo, was the first to come out with a senior-oriented smartphone with technology developed by Fujitsu. Fujitsu recently developed an international model that went on sale in France in June. Unlike in Japan, where the phones are clearly marketed for the elderly with names like DoCoMo’s “Raku-Raku” or “Easy-Easy,” the French version dials down the gray aspect, advertising it with men and women 10 years younger than its targeted clientele.
日本头号移动电话运营商都科摩公司(NTT DoCoMo)首先推出了专为老年人设计的智能手机，使用的是富士通(Fujitsu)开发的技术。富士通最近开发了一个国际版，6月已经在法国上市。这种手机在日本都是面向老年人作推广的，比如都科摩的老人手机名叫Raku-Raku，也就是“简单-简单”，但在法国市场中淡化了与老年人的关系，使用比目标人群年轻10岁的男人和女人来推广。
DoCoMo will soon unveil a version for the Japanese market with an enhanced screen and an improved social media app. The online community accessed from the phone is monitored round-the-clock by Fujitsu staff who protect the site from spamming and delete any personal information elderly members may have inadvertently posted. The close to 70,000 members exchange stories about their pets and grandchildren and chat about going to medical appointments.
都科摩很快会在日本市场推出这款手机的新版本，提升了屏幕品质，还有一个经过改良的社交媒体应用。通过这种手机接触的网络社区是受到富士通员工24小时监控的，他们会确保网站不受垃圾信息的侵扰，删除老年用户无意中贴出的所有个人信息。这个网站有将近7万用户，他们交流着关于他们的宠物、孙儿的故事，聊着医疗预约之类的事。
Fujitsu says that the percentage of repeat use of the app by many of its members rivals that of Facebook, suggesting that Japan’s elderly are eager to venture into virtual communities. See you in the cyberworld, Mom.
富士通说这个社交应用的使用者中，反复使用该应用的人数比例跟Facebook不相上下，表明日本老年人有探索虚拟社区的意愿。咱们网络世界见，妈妈。