FOR many education advocates, the arts are a panacea: They supposedly increase test scores, generate social responsibility and turn around failing schools. Most of the supporting evidence, though, does little more than establish correlations between exposure to the arts and certain outcomes. Research that demonstrates a causal relationship has been virtually nonexistent.
对于许多教育倡导者而言，艺术就是一剂包治百病的灵药：它们能够提高考试成绩、培养社会责任感，并让差学校变好。然而，大多数证据不过只证明，接触艺术与一些后来表现存在相关性。事实上，目前尚无任何研究表明两者存在因果联系。
A few years ago, however, we had a rare opportunity to explore such relationships when the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art opened in Bentonville, Ark. Through a large-scale, random-assignment study of school tours to the museum, we were able to determine that strong causal relationships do in fact exist between arts education and a range of desirable outcomes.
然而几年前，当阿肯色州本顿维尔的水晶桥美国艺术博物馆(Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art)开放时，我们得到了一个探索这种关系的难得机会。通过对学校组织的博物馆参观进行大规模的随机分配研究，我们最终得以确定，艺术教育与一系列人们期望的结果之间的确存在强烈的因果关系。
Students who, by lottery, were selected to visit the museum on a field trip demonstrated stronger critical thinking skills, displayed higher levels of social tolerance, exhibited greater historical empathy and developed a taste for art museums and cultural institutions.
被随机选去参观博物馆的学生，表现出了更强的审辨式思维技能、更高的社会包容度、对历史有更强烈的感受，并形成一种对艺术博物馆和文化机构的喜好。
Crystal Bridges, which opened in November 2011, was founded by Alice Walton, the daughter of Sam Walton, the founder of Walmart. It is impressive, with 50,000 square feet of gallery space and an endowment of more than $800 million.
水晶桥于2011年11月开放，其创始人是沃尔玛(Walmart)创始人山姆·沃尔顿(Sam Walton)之女艾丽斯·沃尔顿(Alice Walton)。它的规模颇大，画廊面积达5万平方英尺（约合4650平方米），获得资助达8亿美元（约合48.6亿元人民币）。
Thanks to a generous private gift, the museum has a program that allows school groups to visit at no cost to students or schools.
在一项慷慨的私人馈赠帮助下，博物馆设立了一个项目，让学校可以组织学生免费入内参观。
Before the opening, we were contacted by the museum’s education department. They recognized that the opening of a major museum in an area that had never had one before was an unusual event that ought to be studied. But they also had a problem. Because the school tours were being offered free, in an area where most children had very little prior exposure to cultural institutions, demand for visits far exceeded available slots. In the first year alone, the museum received applications from 525 school groups requesting tours for more than 38,000 students.
在开放之前，博物馆的教育部门与我们取得了联系。他们认为，这座博物馆规模巨大，在该地区前所未有，这样一个不同寻常的事件是值得做一番研究的。但是他们也有一个问题。因为校园参观是免费提供的，而这里的大多数孩子之前都很少接触文化机构，所以参观申请远远超过了它的接待能力。仅仅第一年，水晶桥博物馆就收到了525次校园参观申请，参加的学生在3.8万人以上。
As social scientists, we knew exactly how to solve this problem. We partnered with the museum and conducted a lottery to fill the available slots. By randomly assigning school tours, we were able to allocate spots fairly. Doing so also created a natural experiment to study the effects of museum visits on students, the results of which we published in the journals Education Next and Educational Researcher.
作为社会科学家，我们非常清楚应该如何解决这个问题。我们与博物馆合作，用随机抽样的方法选定了参观者。因为是随机分配校园参观，我们的分配也是公平的。同时这很自然地成了一个实验的机会，让我们可以研究参观博物馆对学生的影响，相关的研究结果，我们已经发表在了《教育未来》(Education Next)和《教育研究者》(Educational Researcher)上。
Over the course of the following year, nearly 11,000 students and almost 500 teachers participated in our study, roughly half of whom had been selected by lottery to visit the museum. Applicant groups who won the lottery constituted our treatment group, while those who did not win an immediate tour served as our control group.
在接下来的一年中，有将近1.1万名学生和差不多500名老师参加了我们的研究，他们中有大约一半是被随机选来参观博物馆的。被随机选中的申请组就是我们的实验组，而那些没有被选中的人就是我们的对照组。
Several weeks after the students in the treatment group visited the museum, we administered surveys to all of the students. The surveys included multiple items that assessed knowledge about art, as well as measures of tolerance, historical empathy and sustained interest in visiting art museums and other cultural institutions. We also asked them to write an essay in response to a work of art that was unfamiliar to them.
在对照组的学生参观了博物馆几周后，我们在所有学生中间进行了调查。调查评估了多个方面，其中包括艺术知识、包容度、对历史的感受以及是否有参观艺术博物馆和其他文化机构的持续兴趣。我们还要求学生就某件他们不熟悉的艺术品写一篇文章。
These essays were then coded using a critical-thinking-skills assessment program developed by researchers working with the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston.
随后，一个由波士顿伊莎贝拉嘉纳艺术博物馆(Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum)研究人员开发的审辩式思维技能评测程序对这些文章进行了编码。
Further, we directly measured whether students are more likely to return to Crystal Bridges as a result of going on a school tour. Students who participated in the study were given a coupon that gave them and their families free entry to a special exhibit at the museum. The coupons were coded so that we could determine the group to which students belonged. Students in the treatment group were 18 percent more likely to attend the exhibit than students in the control group.
此外，在参加学校组织的参观后，学生是否会更乐意再次去水晶桥博物馆参观，我们也进行了评测。我们给参加研究的学生发放了优惠券，他们和他们的家人都可以凭此券免费参观博物馆的一个特殊展览。优惠券上有编码，所以我们可以确定学生属于哪个组。实验组的学生参观前述特殊展览的几率要比对照组的学生高18%。
Moreover, most of the benefits we observed are significantly larger for minority students, low-income students and students from rural schools — typically two to three times larger than for white, middle-class, suburban students — owing perhaps to the fact that the tour was the first time they had visited an art museum.
而且我们还观察到，对于那些来自低收入家庭和乡村学校的少数族裔学生而言，参观博物馆给他们带来的好处要比给中产阶级的城市白人学生大很多——通常大两至三倍。这或许跟前者是首次参观艺术博物馆有关。
Further research is needed to determine what exactly about the museum-going experience determines the strength of the outcomes. How important is the structure of the tour? The size of the group? The type of art presented?
参观博物馆的经历在多大程度上影响了随后表现，还有待进一步研究。参观的组织形式、队伍的规模以及参观的艺术类型又有多重要？
Clearly, however, we can conclude that visiting an art museum exposes students to a diversity of ideas that challenge them with different perspectives on the human condition. Expanding access to art, whether through programs in schools or through visits to area museums and galleries, should be a central part of any school’s curriculum.
不论如何，我们明显可以得出这样的结论，即参观博物馆会让学生接触到各种思想，让他们从不同的角度看待人类生活。不论是通过学校项目，还是参观地方博物馆和画廊，增加学生接触艺术的机会都应该成为所有学校课程的中心内容。