WASHINGTON - THE packages arrived by mail in October of the students’ senior year of high school. They consisted of brightly colored accordion folders containing about 75 sheets of paper. The sheets were filed with information about colleges: their admissions standards, graduation rates and financial aid policies.
华盛顿 - 高中毕业班的学生在10月份收到了邮寄给他们的包裹。这是一些色彩鲜艳的风琴文件夹，里面装有大约75页的文件，上面写有各个大学的信息：它们的入学标准、毕业率和助学金政策等。
The students receiving the packages were mostly high-achieving, low-income students, and they were part of a randomized experiment. The researchers sending the packets were trying to determine whether most poor students did not attend selective colleges because they did not want to, or because they did not understand that they could.
收到这些包裹的大多是优秀的低收入家庭学生，同时他们也是一项随机试验的参与组成者。研究人员邮寄这些包裹是想确定这样一个问题：大多数贫困生之所以不选择知名大学，是因为他们真的不想去，还是因为他们不知道他们可以去。
The results are now in, and they suggest that basic information can substantially increase the number of low-income students who apply to, attend and graduate from top colleges.
现在，结果已经出来了。这些结果表明，提供基本信息将使得申请一流大学的贫困生的数量大增，就读这些院校并毕业的贫困生的数量也会大增。
Among a control group of low-income students with SAT scores good enough to attend top colleges — but who did not receive the information packets — only 30 percent gained admission to a college matching their academic qualifications. Among a similar group of students who did receive a packet, 54 percent gained admission, according to the researchers, Caroline M. Hoxby of Stanford and Sarah E. Turner of the University of Virginia.
据参与该项研究的斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的卡罗琳·M·霍克斯比(Caroline M. Hoxby)和弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)的莎拉·E·特纳(Sarah E. Turner)表示，在“学术能力评估测试”(SAT)成绩足以为一流大学录取的对照组贫困生（这部分学生并未收到信息包裹）中，只有30%进入了与其学术资格相符的大学；而在收到信息包裹的类似组别中，这一比例是54%。
David Coleman, the president of the College Board, told me that he considered the results powerful enough to require changes at his organization, which conducts the SAT. “We can’t stand by as students, particularly low-income students, go off track and don’t pursue the opportunities they have earned,” Mr. Coleman said. The group may soon begin sending its own version of the experiment’s information.
美国大学委员会(College Board)是SAT考试的主办方，委员会主席大卫·科尔曼(David Coleman)告诉我说，他认为这些结果足以表明他的机构需要改革。“学生，尤其是低收入家庭的学生偏离了轨道，放弃了他们所应得的机会，而对于这种情况，我们不会坐视不管，”科尔曼先生说。该机构将很快发布它自己的试验信息。
The experiment is part of a new wave of attention on the lack of socioeconomic diversity at top colleges. Mr. Coleman, who took over the College Board last fall, said his top priority was expanding opportunity. Another recent study, by Ms. Hoxby and Christopher Avery of Harvard, found that many low-income students had the high school grades and scores to thrive at the nation’s 238 most selective colleges, but never applied. And the Supreme Court may soon further restrict race-based affirmative action, putting pressure on colleges to try a class-based version instead.
这项试验是新一波关于一流大学社会经济多元化不足问题研究的一部分。去年秋天接任大学委员会主席的科尔曼先生表示，他的首要任务是扩大机会。霍克斯比女士和哈佛大学(Harvard University)的克里斯托弗·艾弗里(Christopher Avery)最近进行的另一项研究发现，很多成绩和分数都很优秀的低收入家庭学生原本是可以选择就读美国238所最知名院校的，但他们却从未提交申请。而最高法院(Supreme Court)可能会在近期进一步限制基于种族的平权行动，并会对大学施压，要求其实施基于阶层的肯定性行动。
Together, these developments are creating a test of whether colleges mean what they say about meritocracy and diversity.
总而言之，这些进展已经形成一种测试手段，即大学是否真的像它们自己所说的那样实行精英教育和多元化教育。
University officials have long trumpeted economic diversity as a goal. A few colleges, including Harvard and especially Amherst, have in fact significantly increased their ranks of low-income students. But at most top colleges, the student body — while geographically, ethnically and religiously diverse — remains dominated by affluent students.
长期以来，大学官员都把经济多元化标榜为他们的一个目标。事实上，包括哈佛大学在内的多所院校——安默斯特学院(Amherst College)尤为明显——已经大大增加了低收入家庭学生的数量。但就大多数一流院校而言，尽管实现了地域、种族和宗教的多元化，但其学生群体中仍以富裕家庭学生为主。
The new research shows that large numbers of talented, well-prepared low-income teenagers exist. And many of them want to attend selective colleges, once they understand their options.
新的研究表明，有才华且有充分准备的低收入家庭学生的数量非常庞大。而一旦了解了这些选择之后，他们中的很多人都想上知名大学。
Ms. Hoxby and Ms. Turner designed the 40,000 information packets they mailed — as well as follow-up material — as a low-cost, customized version of the college counseling that upper-income students take for granted. The packets explained application deadlines and student qualifications at a range of colleges. Students also received coupons to waive application fees — which had a particularly big effect. “We wanted students to find schools for themselves,” Ms. Hoxby said.
霍克斯比女士和特纳女士设计、邮寄了4万个信息包，并提供了相关的后续材料。这是一种低成本的、定制化的高校咨询方式，原本只是针对富裕家庭学生的。信息材料中列出了一系列院校的申请截止日期以及它们对学生的资质要求。学生还会收到减免申请费的优惠券，该做法所产生的效果尤为明显。“我们希望学生能够找到适于他们自己的学校，”霍克斯比女士说。
Perhaps most important, the packets presented a series of tables making clear that college is often not as expensive as many students and parents fear. Selective colleges frequently cost less for low-income students than local colleges, because the selective ones have the resources to offer bigger scholarships.
最重要的或许就是信息包中的一系列表格，它们清楚地表明了大学并不像很多学生和家长所担心的那么昂贵。在很多情况下，低收入家庭学生就读知名院校的成本要低于就读地方性大学的成本，因为前者拥有可提供更高数额奖学金的资源。
At the less-selective campuses in the University of Wisconsin system, for example, the average net annual cost for a year of tuition, room, board and fees in 2010-11 was almost $10,000 for families making less than $30,000, Ms. Turner said. At the flagship campus in Madison, by contrast, the equivalent net cost was $6,000. And at Harvard, such students paid only $1,300 a year.
特纳女士举例说，在威斯康星大学(University of Wisconsin)系统中的一般分校，对家庭收入低于3万美元的学生来说，其在2010-2011学年的平均净支出——包括学费、食宿费和杂费在内——接近1万美元。相比之下，在威斯康星大学的旗舰学院麦迪逊分校，其每年的净支出为6000美元。而在哈佛大学，这样的学生每年只需支出1300美元。
Given all of the well-publicized scare stories about student debt, these comparisons can be surprising to adults who attended an elite college — let alone to 17-year-olds who don’t know anyone who has. No wonder that the information packets had an effect. Students who saw a packet submitted 48 percent more applications than the control group. They were about 40 percent more likely to apply to a college matching their academic qualifications.
基于广泛流传的各种耸人听闻的学生债务报道，即便是上过一流院校的成年人也会对这种比较结果感到吃惊，更不用说那些一无所知的17岁的孩子了。因此，这些信息包会产生效果也就不足为奇了。与对照组相比，看过这些信息的学生多提交了48%的申请。而愿意申请与其学术资格相符的院校的学生数量也增加了大约40%。
Of course, many low-income students who graduate from less selective colleges do very well. The problem is that these colleges tend to have far lower graduation rates. Research by William G. Bowen, Michael S. McPherson and Matthew M. Chingos found that even top students who attended community colleges and local four-year colleges often failed to graduate, leaving them with much-diminished prospects.
当然，很多从一般院校毕业的低收入家庭学生也都有着很好的发展。问题在于，这些院校的毕业率通常都很低。据威廉·G·鲍恩(William G. Bowen)、迈克尔·S·麦克弗森(Michael S. McPherson)和马修·M·奇尼格斯(Matthew M. Chingos)的研究发现，即便是非常优秀的学生，在上了社区学院或地方性四年制大学后，他们通常也难以毕业，因而他们的发展前景也就会大打折扣。
They are likely to graduate from top colleges in far greater numbers than from the colleges many now attend. And the more affluent (and slightly less deserving) students they displace will move down only a notch on the college spectrum and still do very well.
若就读一流院校，他们的毕业率可能会比现在很多人上的一般院校要高得多。而他们所取代的那些富裕家庭的学生（与一流院校要求略差一点的学生）将会进入稍差一点的院校，但在那里，他们仍会有良好表现。
“The little trickle down is not going to offset the big leap,” Ms. Hoxby said.
“这种小的分流并不能够抵消这种大的飞跃，”霍克斯比女士说。
The leap, however, is more expensive for colleges. Today, colleges can celebrate the many ways their students are diverse while also not busting their financial aid budgets. If the College Board and colleges themselves become more aggressive and creative about recruiting top low-income students, the financial aid demands will rise.
然而，对大学来说，这种飞跃意味着更大的投入。基于目前的财政援助预算，大学在很多方面可以标榜它们实现了学生的多元化。但如果大学委员会和大学本身在招收优秀的低收入家庭学生方面采取更主动、更有创造性的措施，那么它们就需要更多的财政援助。
Optimists argue that a greater commitment to social mobility will also open up new fund-raising opportunities — from foundations and eventually grateful, once-poor alumni. Anthony W. Marx, the president of the New York Public Library, who made economic diversity a priority while running Amherst, said that the effort led to more alumni giving. Colleges can also expand enrollment, minimizing the politically sensitive displacement of higher-income applicants.
乐观人士认为，对社会流动性的更大承诺将会开启新的筹资大门——从基金会和心怀感激、出身贫寒的校友那里寻找机会。纽约公共图书馆(New York Public Library)馆长安东尼·W·马克斯(Anthony W. Marx)在过去领导安默斯特学院时，曾以实现经济多元化为首要目标，他说，他付出的努力换来了更多校友的捐赠。此外，大学也可以扩大招生，以最大限度地降低政治敏感性，因为有一部分高收入家庭的申请者会被取代。
Still, there will be trade-offs. Recruiting more top low-income students will probably force colleges to spend less elsewhere, be it on buildings, sports teams or undersubscribed academic fields.
不过，这里也存在取舍。招收更多的优秀的低收入家庭学生可能会迫使大学减少在其他方面的开支，比如说在基础建设、运动队或生源不足的学术领域等方面的开支。
But it is hard to think of a form of spending more consistent with top colleges’ self-image and mission than scholarships for low-income students who have managed to overcome barriers and excel.
与一流大学的自身形象及使命最相符的开支方式，或许就是为那些克服各种障碍并取得优异成绩的低收入家庭学生提供奖学金。
Not so long ago, many elite colleges resembled finishing schools for well-off white Protestant men. By any measure, the colleges have changed enormously. They are far more meritocratic than they once were. They just aren’t yet as meritocratic as they claim to be.
就在不久的过去，很多一流大学都成立了类似于女子精修学院的男子精修学院，所针对的是富裕的白人新教徒。不管以何种标准衡量，时下的大学都已经改变了很多。它们比以往任何时候都重视精英教育，只是现在还没有达到它们所宣称的那种精英教育程度。