Early on a drab afternoon in January, a dozen third graders from the working-class suburb of Chicago Heights, Ill., burst into the Mac Lab on the ground floor of Washington-McKinley School in a blur of blue pants, blue vests and white shirts. Minutes later, they were hunkered down in front of the Apple computers lining the room’s perimeter, hoping to do what was, until recently, considered impossible: increase their intelligence through training.
1月份一个沉闷的午后，十几位来自伊利诺伊州工薪阶层社区芝加哥高地，身穿蓝裤、蓝背心和白衬衫的三年级学生，冲进华盛顿-麦金利学校(Washington-McKinley School)的苹果实验室。几分钟后，他们潜下心来，坐在绕房间四周排列的苹果电脑前，希望从事一件直至最近仍被视为不可能完成的任务：通过培训提高智力。
“Can somebody raise their hand,” asked Kate Wulfson, the instructor, “and explain to me how you get points?”
“谁能解释一下如何获得积分？”指导老师凯特·沃尔夫森(Kate Wulfson)问道，“请举手发言。”
On each of the children’s monitors, there was a cartoon image of a haunted house, with bats and a crescent moon in a midnight blue sky. Every few seconds, a black cat appeared in one of the house’s five windows, then vanished. The exercise was divided into levels. On Level 1, the children earned a point by remembering which window the cat was just in. Easy. But the game is progressive: the cats keep coming, and the kids have to keep watching and remembering.
一栋鬼屋的卡通画闪现在显示器上，其背景是几只飞翔的蝙蝠和一轮悬挂在午夜蓝天上的新月。这栋阴森森的房子有5个窗户，每隔几秒钟，一只黑猫出现在其中一扇窗子之中，随即消失。这项练习分为若干级。在第1级，每记住黑猫刚刚出现在哪扇窗户里面，就得1分。非常简单。但这套游戏是渐进的：黑猫不断出现，孩子们必须得持续观望，并用心记忆。
“And here’s where it gets confusing,” Wulfson continued. “If you get to Level 2, you have to remember where the cat was two windows ago. The time before last. For Level 3, you have to remember where it was three times ago. Level 4 is four times ago. That’s hard. You have to keep track. O.K., ready? Once we start, anyone who talks loses a star.”
“从这里开始，你就有可能混乱不清，”沃尔夫森继续说，“如果你进入第2级，你必须记住这只猫在2个窗户前出现在哪里，也就是最后一次露面前的那一次。进入第3级，你必须记住它3次前的位置。第4级是4次前。难度很大。你们必须聚精会神，保持专注度。准备好了吗？正式开始后，谁说话，谁就会失去一颗小星星。”
So began 10 minutes of a remarkably demanding concentration game. At Level 2, even adults find the task somewhat taxing. Almost no one gets past Level 3 without training. But most people who stick with the game do get better with practice. This isn’t surprising: practice improves performance on almost every task humans engage in, whether it’s learning to read or playing horseshoes.
随后，一场时长10分钟，要求相当高的注意力游戏正式开始。到了第2级，就连成年人也发现这项任务有点费力。不接受培训，几乎没有人能够通过第3级。但只要坚持练习，大多数人的成绩都可以改善。这并不奇怪：无论是学习阅读，还是玩扔马蹄铁游戏，对于人类从事的几乎所有任务而言，勤加练习都会提升表现。
What is surprising is what else it improved. In a 2008 study, Susanne Jaeggi and Martin Buschkuehl, now of the University of Maryland, found that young adults who practiced a stripped-down, less cartoonish version of the game also showed improvement in a fundamental cognitive ability known as “fluid” intelligence: the capacity to solve novel problems, to learn, to reason, to see connections and to get to the bottom of things. The implication was that playing the game literally makes people smarter.
令人惊讶的是，它也改善了其他方面。在2008年的一项研究中，现任教于马里兰大学(University of Maryland)的苏珊·贾基(Susanne Jaeggi)和马丁·布施库尔(Martin Buschkuehl)发现，对于练习过这款游戏精简版的年轻人而言，一项被称为“液态智力”(fluid intelligence)的基本认知能力也有所改善。所谓液态智力，意指解决新奇问题，学习，推理，发现联系，认清事物本质的能力。言下之意是，玩这款游戏可以让人变得更聪明。
Psychologists have long regarded intelligence as coming in two flavors: crystallized intelligence, the treasure trove of stored-up information and how-to knowledge (the sort of thing tested on “Jeopardy!” or put to use when you ride a bicycle); and fluid intelligence. Crystallized intelligence grows as you age; fluid intelligence has long been known to peak in early adulthood, around college age, and then to decline gradually. And unlike physical conditioning, which can transform 98-pound weaklings into hunks, fluid intelligence has always been considered impervious to training.
心理学家一直认为智力具有两种形态：晶态智力和液态智力。晶态智力是由存储的信息和技能知识（那种经过“危险！”测试或者你骑自行车时使用的东西）形成的宝库，随年龄的增大而增长；而液态智力很早就被认为在成年早期（也就是在上大学的年纪）抵达峰值，随后逐渐下滑。不同于可以把一位重98磅的体弱者转变成大块头的体能锻炼，液态智力一直被认为不受训练的影响。
That, after all, is the premise of I.Q. tests, or at least the portion that measures fluid intelligence: we can test you now and predict all sorts of things in the future, because fluid intelligence supposedly sets in early and is fairly immutable. While parents, teachers and others play an essential role in establishing an environment in which a child’s intellect can grow, even Tiger Mothers generally expect only higher grades will come from their children’s diligence — not better brains.
这毕竟是智商测试的前提，或者说，至少是估量液态智力的智商测试的前提：我们可以根据现在测试的结果预知未来的各种事情，因为液态智力据认为形成于早期，并且在相当程度上是不可改变的。虽然父母、老师和其他人可以在建立有助于增强孩子理解力的环境方面发挥至关重要的作用，但就连“虎妈”通常也只能期待高分源自孩子的勤奋，而不是更聪明的大脑。
How, then, could watching black cats in a haunted house possibly increase something as profound as fluid intelligence? Because the deceptively simple game, it turns out, targets the most elemental of cognitive skills: “working” memory. What long-term memory is to crystallized intelligence, working memory is to fluid intelligence. Working memory is more than just the ability to remember a telephone number long enough to dial it; it’s the capacity to manipulate the information you’re holding in your head — to add or subtract those numbers, place them in reverse order or sort them from high to low. Understanding a metaphor or an analogy is equally dependent on working memory; you can’t follow even a simple statement like “See Jane run” if you can’t put together how “see” and “Jane” connect with “run.” Without it, you can’t make sense of anything.
那么，观看鬼屋中的黑猫又如何可能提高深奥如液态智力这样的事物呢？原因在于，这款看似简单的游戏所针对的其实是最基本的认知技能：工作记忆。工作记忆之于液态智力，就如同长期记忆之于晶态智力。工作记忆不仅仅是记住一个电话号码并且立刻拨出去的能力；它还包括操作存储于大脑的信息的能力——对这些数字进行加减运算，倒序排列，或由高到低排序。理解一个比喻或类比同样依赖于工作记忆；如果你不能把“看见”、“简”和“跑步”联系在一起，你甚至不能理解“看见简跑步”这样一个简单陈述句的意思。如果没有工作记忆，你就无法理解任何事情。
Over the past three decades, theorists and researchers alike have made significant headway in understanding how working memory functions. They have developed a variety of sensitive tests to measure it and determine its relationship to fluid intelligence. Then, in 2008, Jaeggi turned one of these tests of working memory into a training task for building it up, in the same way that push-ups can be used both as a measure of physical fitness and as a strength-building task. “We see attention and working memory as the cardiovascular function of the brain,” Jaeggi says.“If you train your attention and working memory, you increase your basic cognitive skills that help you for many different complex tasks.”
过去30年以来，理论家和研究人员在了解工作记忆的运行机理方面取得了显著进展。他们已经开发出了多种多样的敏感测试，以衡量工作记忆，并确定它与液态智力的关系。2008年，贾基将其中一项工作记忆测试转化为一项旨在加强它的培训任务，就像俯卧撑既可以用来衡量身体素质，也可以用来强身健体一样。“我们把注意力和工作记忆视为大脑的心血管功能，”她说，“如果你训练注意力和工作记忆，你就可以提高有助于你完成多种复杂任务的基本认知技能。”
Jaeggi’s study has been widely influential. Since its publication, others have achieved results similar to Jaeggi’s not only in elementary-school children but also in preschoolers, college students and the elderly. The training tasks generally require only 15 to 25 minutes of work per day, five days a week, and have been found to improve scores on tests of fluid intelligence in as little as four weeks. Follow-up studies linking that improvement to real-world gains in schooling and job performance are just getting under way. But already, people with disorders including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (A.D.H.D.) and traumatic brain injury have seen benefits from training. Gains can persist for up to eight months after treatment.
贾基的研究产生了广泛的影响。自这份研究报告出版以来，其他学者不仅在小学生，还在学龄前儿童、大学生和老年人身上取得了类似的研究成果。这些培训任务通常只需要每周练习5天，每天练习15到25分钟；研究人员发现，在短短4个星期内，练习者的液态智力测试分数就出现了改善。后续研究刚刚开始，主要观察这种改善与学习和工作表现等现实世界收益之间的联系。然而，身心机能失调人士，包括注意力不足过动症(ADHD)和创伤性脑损伤患者，已经看到了训练带来的好处。接受治疗后，从事这类训练的收益可以持续长达8周的时间。
In a town like Chicago Heights, where only 16 percent of high schoolers met the Illinois version of the No Child Left Behind standards in 2011, finding a clear way to increase cognitive abilities has obvious appeal. But it has other uses too, at all ages and aptitudes. Even high-level professionals have begun training their working memory in hopes of boosting their fluid intelligence — and, with it, their job performance. If the effect is real — if fluid intelligence can be raised in just a few minutes a day, even by a bit, and not just on a test but in real life — then it would seem to offer, as Jaeggi’s 2008 study concluded with Spock-like understatement, “a wide range of applications.”
在芝加哥高地，只有16%的高中生在2011年达到了伊利诺伊州的《不让一个孩子掉队法案》(No Child Left Behind)标准。在这样一个城镇，找到一种清晰有效的认知能力提高方式，显然很有吸引力。但它也有其他用途，并且适用于所有年龄段和所有能力。甚至高层次的专业人士也开始训练他们的工作记忆，以期提高液态智力，进而增强其职场表现。如果这种效果——每天只需练习几分钟，液态智力就可获得提高，即使只是一点点，这种改善不仅体现在测试分数上，还体现在现实生活中——真实存在，那么就如贾基在2008年研究报告中的低调结论所述，它似乎拥有“广泛的应用范围”。
Since the first reliable intelligence test was created just over a hundred years ago, researchers have searched for a way to increase scores meaningfully, with little success. The track record was so dismal that by 2002, when Jaeggi and her research partner (and now her husband), Martin Buschkuehl, came across a study claiming to have done so, they simply didn’t believe it.
第一项可靠的智力测试是在100多年前推出的。自那时起，研究人员一直在努力搜寻一种能够提高分数的方式，但收效甚微。这项纪录非常惨淡，以至于到了2002年，当贾基和她的研究伙伴马丁·布施库尔（两人现已结为连理）碰到一项声称已经做到这一点的研究时，他们根本就不相信。
The study, by a Swedish neuroscientist named Torkel Klingberg, involved just 14 children, all with A.D.H.D. Half participated in computerized tasks designed to strengthen their working memory, while the other half played less challenging computer games. After just five weeks, Klingberg found that those who played the working-memory games fidgeted less and moved about less. More remarkable, they also scored higher on one of the single best measures of fluid intelligence, the Raven’s Progressive Matrices. Improvement in working memory, in other words, transferred to improvement on a task the children weren’t training for.
这项由瑞典神经学家托克尔·克林伯格(Torkel Klingberg)主持的研究，只涉及14位患有注意力不足过动症的孩子。其中一半孩子参加了旨在加强工作记忆的计算机化任务，另一半孩子玩挑战性不大的电脑游戏。仅5个星期后，克林伯格发现，在那些玩记忆游戏的孩子当中，坐立不安和走来走去的现象明显减少。更不寻常的是，这些孩子的瑞文氏标准推理测验(Raven’s Progressive Matrices)分数也有所提高，瑞文氏是最好的液态智力测试方式之一。换句话说，工作记忆的改善效应转移到了孩子们未训练过的一项任务上。
Even if the sample was small, the results were provocative (three years later Klingberg replicated most of the results in a group of 50 children), because matrices are considered the gold standard of fluid-intelligence tests. Anyone who has taken an intelligence test has seen matrices like those used in the Raven’s: three rows, with three graphic items in each row, made up of squares, circles, dots or the like. Do the squares get larger as they move from left to right? Do the circles inside the squares fill in, changing from white to gray to black, as they go downward? One of the nine items is missing from the matrix, and the challenge is to find the underlying patterns — up, down and across — from six possible choices. Initially the solutions are readily apparent to most people, but they get progressively harder to discern. By the end of the test, most test takers are baffled.
即使这份样本很小，其结果也颇具耸动性（3年后，克林伯格在50个孩子身上获得了大致相同的结果），因为矩阵被视为液态智力测试的黄金标准。做过智力测试的人都观察过类似于瑞文氏标准推理测验的矩阵：共3行，每行包含3个图形，由正方形、圆、点或其他类似图像组成。从左向右移动时，正方形是否变大了？当正方形内的圆圈往下移动，从白色变为灰色，再变为黑色的时候，它们是否填满了？9个图像中有1个正在从矩阵中消失，挑战是，从6个可能的选择中找出潜在的模式——向上、向下和横向。对于大多数人来说，最初的解决方案是显而易见的，但辨别的难度逐渐加大。测验临近结束时，大多数考生都是满头雾水。
If measuring intelligence through matrices seems arbitrary, consider how central pattern recognition is to success in life. If you’re going to find buried treasure in baseball statistics to give your team an edge by signing players unappreciated by others, you’d better be good at matrices. If you want to exploit cycles in the stock market, or find a legal precedent in 10 cases, or for that matter, if you need to suss out a woolly mammoth’s nature to trap, kill and eat it — you’re essentially using the same cognitive skills tested by matrices.
如果通过矩阵测量智力似乎有些武断，请考虑一下中枢性模式识别对于人生成功的意义。如果你要找出埋藏在棒球统计数据中的宝藏，签下几位不被其他人赏识的球员，从而为你的球队赢得优势，你最好擅长矩阵测试。如果你想利用股市的周期谋利，或者在10个案例中找出一个判例，又或者，如果你需要弄清楚一头猛犸象捕获、猎杀并吃掉其他动物的本性，你基本上需要使用这些矩阵测试所评价的认知技能。
When Klingberg’s study came out, both Jaeggi and Buschkuehl were doctoral candidates in cognitive psychology at the University of Bern, Switzerland. Since his high-school days as a Swiss national-champion rower, Buschkuehl had been interested in the degree to which skills — physical and mental — could be trained. Intrigued by Klingberg’s suggestion that training working memory could improve fluid intelligence, he showed the paper to Jaeggi, who was studying working memory with a test known as the N-back. “At that time there was pretty much no evidence whatsoever that you can train on one particular task and get transfer to another task that was totally different,” Jaeggi says. That is, while most skills improve with practice, the improvement is generally domain-specific: you don’t get better at Sudoku by doing crosswords. And fluid intelligence was not just another skill; it was the ultimate cognitive ability underlying all mental skills, and supposedly immune from the usual benefits of practice. To find that training on a working-memory task could result in an increase in fluid intelligence would be cognitive psychology’s equivalent of discovering particles traveling faster than light.
克林伯格的研究成果出炉之际，贾基和布施库尔还都是瑞士伯尔尼大学(University of Bern)认知心理学专业的博士候选人。高中时代就成为瑞士赛艇冠军的布施库尔，一直对身体和智力技能经培训能够企及的程度很感兴趣。他对克林伯格的结论——训练工作记忆可以改善液态智力——饶有兴趣，于是就把这份论文推荐给贾基，后者当时正在使用一项名为N-back的测试研究工作记忆。“当时几乎没有任何证据表明，训练某种任务后，你可以将这种改善效应转移到另一项完全不同的任务，”贾基说。也就是说，虽然大多数技能可以通过训练加以改善，但这种改善通常局限于特定领域：你无法通过做填字游戏来改善你做数独游戏的技能。况且液态智力不仅仅是另一种技能；它是构成所有心智技能基础的终极认知能力，理应不受训练的影响。在认知心理学看来，声称工作记忆训练有望增强液态智力，无异于发现粒子的速度超过光速。
Together, Jaeggi and Buschkuehl decided to see if they could replicate the Klingberg transfer effect. To do so, they used the N-back test as the basis of a training regimen. As seen in the game played by the children at Washington-McKinley, N-back challenges users to remember something — the location of a cat or the sound of a particular letter — that is presented immediately before (1-back), the time before last (2-back), the time before that (3-back), and so on. If you do well at 2-back, the computer moves you up to 3-back. Do well at that, and you’ll jump to 4-back. On the other hand, if you do poorly at any level, you’re nudged down a level. The point is to keep the game just challenging enough that you stay fully engaged.
贾基和布施库尔决定尝试一下，看看能不能复制克林伯格发现的转移效应。为做到这一点，他们以N-back测试作为一项培训方案的基础。正如华盛顿-麦金利学校的孩子参加的游戏所示，N-back测试旨在考验参与者能否记住瞬刻之前(1-back)，上上次(2-back)和上上上次(3-back)呈现的某种东西——一只猫的位置或一个特定字母的声音。如果你在2-back层级上表现出色，电脑就会让你完成3-back。如果这个层级也做得很好，你将跳跃至4-back。另一方面，如果你在任何层次上做得都很差，你将被下推一个层级。其主旨是，让游戏保持足够的挑战性，从而让你充分参与。
To make it harder, Jaeggi and Buschkuehl used what’s called the dual N-back task. As a random sequence of letters is heard over earphones, a square appears on a computer screen moving, apparently at random, among eight possible spots on a grid. Your mission is to keep track of both the letters and the squares. So, for example, at the 3-back level, you would press one button on the keyboard if you recall that a spoken letter is the same one that was spoken three times ago, while simultaneously pressing another key if the square on the screen is in the same place as it was three times ago.
为加大难度，贾基和布施库尔使用了所谓的双N-back任务。耳机中传来一组随机排序的字母，电脑屏幕上同时出现一个正方形，它显然在一个网格的8个位置上随机移动。你的使命是同时跟踪字母和正方形。比如，在3-back层级，你按下键盘的一个按钮，你需要判断你听到的这个字母与3次前那个字母是否相同。与此同时，你按下另一个键，以判断屏幕上正方形的位置与3次前是否相同。
The point of making the task more difficult is to overwhelm the usual task-specific strategies that people develop with games like chess and Scrabble. “We wanted to train underlying attention and working-memory skills,” Jaeggi says.
加大任务难度的意图在于，使人们无法施展他们通过下棋和拼字游戏这类游戏开发出的解决特定任务的技能。“我们希望培养根本性的注意力和工作记忆能力，”贾基说。
Jaeggi and Buschkuehl gave progressive matrix tests to students at Bern and then asked them to practice the dual N-back for 20 to 25 minutes a day. When they retested them at the end of a few weeks, they were surprised and delighted to find significant improvement. Jaeggi and Buschkuehl later expanded the study as postdoctoral fellows at the University of Michigan, in the laboratory of John Jonides, professor of psychology and neuroscience.
贾基和布施库尔让伯尔尼大学的学生参加难度渐进的矩阵测试，然后要求他们每天练习20到25分钟的双N-back任务。几个星期后再次测试时，他们惊奇且欣喜地发现这些学生的成绩大有改善。后来在密歇根大学(University of Michigan)心理学和神经科学教授约翰·约尼迪斯(John Jonides)的实验室做博士后研究时，贾基和布施库尔进一步扩展了这项研究。
“Those two things, working memory and cognitive control, I think, are at the heart of intellectual functioning,” Jonides told me when I met with him, Jaeggi and Buschkuehl in their basement office. “They are part of what differentiates us from other species. They allow us to selectively process information from the environment, and to use that information to do all kinds of problem-solving and reasoning.”
“我认为，这两个事物：工作记忆和认知控制，是智力功能的核心，”当我在约尼迪斯的地下办公室中见到他、贾基和布施库尔时，约尼迪斯对我说。“它们是我们有别于其他物种的事物之一，允许我们有选择地处理来自周围环境的信息，并使用这些信息从事各种解决问题和推理活动。”
When they finally published their study, in a May 2008 issue of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the results were striking. Before training, participants were able to correctly answer between 9 and 10 of the matrix questions. Afterward, the 34 young adults who participated in dual N-back training for 12 weeks correctly answered approximately one extra matrix item, while those who trained for 17 weeks were able to answer about three more correctly. After 19 weeks, the improvement was 4.4 additional matrix questions.
这项惊人的研究成果最终刊发在2008年5月出版的《美国国家科学院院刊》(Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)上。培训前，参与者能够准确回答9到10个矩阵问题。后来，34位参加过12个周双N-back培训的年轻人准确回答了大约1个额外的矩阵问题，而参加过17个周培训的学生多回答了3个问题。19个周后，改善效应增加至4.4个额外问题。
“It’s not just a little bit higher,” Jaeggi says. “It’s a large effect.”
“这不只是高了一点点，”贾基说，“这是一个很大的效应。”
The study did have its shortcomings. “We used just one reasoning task to measure their performance,” she says. “We showed improvements in this one fluid-reasoning task, which is usually highly correlated with other measures as well.” Whether the improved scores on the Raven’s would translate into school grades, job performance and real-world gains remained to be seen. Even so, accompanying the paper’s publication in Proceedings was a commentary titled, “Increasing Fluid Intelligence Is Possible After All,” in which the senior psychologist Robert J. Sternberg (now provost at Oklahoma State University) called Jaeggi’s and Buschkuehl’s research “pioneering.” The study, he wrote, “seems, in some measure, to resolve the debate over whether fluid intelligence is, in at least some meaningful measure, trainable.”
这项研究确实有不足之处。“我们只使用了一项推理任务来衡量他们的表现，”她说，“我们显示的是这一项液态推理任务的改善，而这项任务通常也与其他测量高度相关。”瑞文氏标准推理测验成绩的改善，是否将转化为学业成绩、工作表现和真实世界的其他收益，依然有待观察。即便如此，在刊发这篇论文的《美国国家科学院院刊》上，还有一篇题为“增强液态智力终究成为可能”的评论文章。资深心理学家，现任俄克拉荷马州立大学(Oklahoma State University)教务长的罗伯特·斯腾伯格(Robert J. Sternberg)在文中称赞贾基和布施库尔的研究“具有开拓性”。他写道，这项研究“似乎在一定程度上解决了一项争论，即液态智力是否至少可以通过某种有意义的措施进行训练”。
For some, the debate is far from settled. Randall Engle, a leading intelligence researcher at the Georgia Tech School of Psychology, views the proposition that I.Q. can be increased through training with a skepticism verging on disdain. “May I remind you of ‘cold fusion’?” he says, referring to the infamous claim, long since discredited, that nuclear fusion could be achieved at room temperature in a desktop device. “People were like, ‘Oh, my God, we’ve solved our energy crisis.’ People were rushing to throw money at that science. Well, not so fast. The military is now preparing to spend millions trying to make soldiers smarter, based on working-memory training. What that one 2008 paper did was to send hundreds of people off on a wild-goose chase, in my opinion.
在一些人看来，这项争议远未尘埃落定。乔治亚理工学院(Georgia Tech)心理学系首席智力研究员兰德尔·恩格尔(Randall Engle)对智商可以通过训练来增强这一命题持有一种近乎于不屑的质疑态度。他说：“还需要我提醒你‘冷核聚变’吗？”早已声名狼藉的冷核聚变理论认为，核聚变可以在室温下通过一台桌面设备来实现。“人们那时激动地声称，‘哦，天哪，我们已经解决了能源危机。’人们都抢着给这门科学投钱。好吧，还没那么快呢。现在，军方正准备花大价钱训练士兵的工作记忆，以提高他们的智商。在我看来，2008年的那份研究报告，只是让数百人白费心机地追逐一项永远也无法实现的目标。”
“Fluid intelligence is not culturally derived,” he continues. “It is almost certainly the biologically driven part of intelligence. We have a real good idea of the parts of the brain that are important for it. The prefrontal cortex is especially important for the control of attention. Do I think you can change fluid intelligence? No, I don’t think you can. There have been hundreds of other attempts to increase intelligence over the years, with little or no — just no — success.”
“液态智力不是从文化派生而来，”他继续说道。“它几乎肯定是受生物驱动的那部分智力。一些大脑部件对于这种智力具有至关重要的意义，我们对此已非常了解。前额叶皮层对于控制注意力尤为重要。我是否认为你可以改变液态智力？不，我不这样认为。多年来出现过数百项旨在增强智力的尝试，但几乎没有或者说根本就没有成功的。”
At a meeting of cognitive scientists last August, and again in November, Engle presented a withering critique of Jaeggi and her colleagues’ 2008 paper. He pointed to a variety of methodological weaknesses (many of which have been addressed in subsequent papers by Jaeggi and others) and then presented the results from his own attempt to replicate the study, which found no effect whatsoever. (Those results have yet to be published.)
在去年8月和11月份举行的认知科学家会议上，针对贾基及其同事2008年发表的论文，恩格尔给予了一番毁灭性的批判。他指出其研究方法的种种缺陷（其中很多缺陷，已经在贾基和其他人的后续论文得以解决），随后介绍了他自己尝试复制这项研究的结果——并未发现任何效果（这些结果尚未公开发布）。
The most prominent takedown of I.Q. training came in June 2010, when the neuroscientist Adrian Owen published the results of an experiment conducted in coordination with the BBC television show “Bang Goes the Theory.” After inviting British viewers to participate, Owen recruited 11,430 of them to take a battery of I.Q. tests before and after a six-week online program designed to replicate commercially available “brain building” software. (The N-back was not among the tasks offered.) “Although improvements were observed in every one of the cognitive tasks that were trained,” he concluded in the journal Nature, “no evidence was found for transfer effects to untrained tasks, even when those tasks were cognitively closely related.”
2010年6月份的一项著名的智商训练也得出了相反结论。彼时，神经学家阿德里安·欧文(Adrian Owen)发布了一项他与英国广播公司(BBC)电视节目《理论大爆炸》(Bang Goes the Theory)合作完成的试验。邀请电视观众参与后，欧文从中招募了11430人参加一个为期6周，旨在复制市面销售的“提升大脑”软件的在线项目（N-back不在提供的任务之列），并在试验前后对参与者进行了一系列智商测试。“虽然他们在每项接受过培训的认知任务的表现均有所改善，”他在《自然》杂志(Nature)总结说，“但我们并没有发现改善效应转移至未受训任务的证据，甚至当这些任务在认知层面密切相关的时候。”
But even Owen, reached by telephone, told me that he respects Jaeggi’s studies and looks forward to seeing others like it. If before Jaeggi’s study, scientists’ attempts to raise I.Q. were largely unsuccessful, other lines of evidence have long supported the view that intelligence is far from immutable. While studies of twins suggest that intelligence has a fixed genetic component, at least 20 to 50 percent of the variation in I.Q. is due to other factors, whether social, school or family-based. Even more telling, average I.Q.’s have been rising steadily for a century as access to schooling and technology expands, a phenomenon known as the Flynn Effect. As Jaeggi and others see it, the genetic component of intelligence is undeniable, but it functions less like the genes that control for eye color and more like the complex of interacting genes that affect weight and height (both of which have also been rising, on average, for decades). “We know that height is heavily genetically determined,” Jonides told me during our meeting at the University of Michigan. “But we also know there are powerful environmental influences on height, like nutrition. So the fact that intelligence is partly heritable doesn’t mean you can’t modify it.”
然而，就连欧文也在接受我电话采访时表示，他尊重贾基的研究，并期待看到其他人也欣赏她的努力。虽然在贾基的研究之前，科学家为提高智商所做的尝试大多以失败告终，但其他方面的证据很早就支持智力远非不可改变这一观点。针对双胞胎的研究表明，智力具有固定的遗传成分，但至少20%到50%的智商变异应归因于其他因素，无论这些因素是基于社会、学校，还是家庭的。更有说服力的是，近一个世纪以来，随着教育和技术的不断扩展，平均智商一直在稳步提升，这种现象被称为弗林效应(Flynn Effect)。一如贾基和其他学者的观察，智力的基因成分不可否认，但其运行机理与控制眼珠颜色的基因不大一样，它更类似于影响体重和身高的相互作用的基因复合体（需要说明的是，数十年来，人类的平均体重和身高也一直在增长）。“我们知道，身高在很大程度上是由基因决定的，”约尼迪斯教授在密歇根大学接受我采访时说。“但我们也知道，体重也受到强大的外部环境影响，比如营养。所以说，尽管智力在某种程度上是由遗传基因决定的，但这并不意味着你无法改变它。”
Harold Hawkins, a cognitive psychologist at the Office of Naval Research who oversees most of the U.S. military’s studies in the area, expressed a common view. For him, the question now is not whether cognitive training works but how strongly and how best to achieve it. “Until about four or five years ago, we believed that fluid intelligence is immutable in adulthood,” Hawkins told me. “No one believed that training could possibly achieve dramatic improvements in this very fundamental cognitive ability. Then Jaeggi’s work came along. That’s when I started to move my funding from some other areas into this area. I personally believe, and if I didn’t believe it I wouldn’t be making an investment of the taxpayers’ money, that there’s something here. It’s potentially of extremely profound importance.” A similar view was expressed by Jason Chein, assistant professor of psychology at Temple University in Philadelphia, who published a series of studies — using another method, not N-back, for training working memory — that showed an increase in cognitive abilities. “My findings support what they’ve done,” he says, referring to the work of Jaeggi and her colleagues. “I’ve never replicated exactly what they do. But across a number of labs, using similar but different approaches to training, we have related successes.­ I think there’s a great deal of work to be done, but on the whole we are seeing positive signs.”
美国海军研究局(Office of Naval Research)认知心理学家哈罗德·霍金斯(Harold Hawkins)表达了一个普遍的观点。在这位负责美军认知心理领域研究的学者看来，现在的问题不是认知训练是否有效，而是如何强有力地实现它，并获得最佳效果。“直到大约四五年前，我们还认为液态智力在成年期是一成不变的，”霍金斯告诉我说。“没有人认为训练有可能促使这种最为根本的认知能力显著改善。随后，贾基的研究出现了。也是在这个时候，我开始把研发资金从其他地方转入这个领域。要是我不相信的话，我就不会把纳税人的资金投资在这上面。我个人认为，这个领域潜力无限，极其重要。”费城坦普尔大学(Temple University)心理学助理教授杰森·尚(Jason Chein)表达了类似观点。他发布的一系列研究成果显示，通过另一种方法（并非N-back）训练工作记忆之后，参与者的认知技能有所提高。“我的研究结果支持他们的工作，”在谈到贾基及其同事的研究时，他说，“我从来没有精确地复制出他们的研究成果。但经过一系列运用类似但不同的训练方式的试验，我们获得了与之有关联的成功。我认为还需要做大量的工作，但就总体而言，我们正在看到积极的迹象。”
This past winter, I went to visit Jason Chein’s lab in Philadelphia, where he has begun to train subjects with something called a complex working memory span task. “It’s a terrible name,” he said with a laugh. “And you could call it a gimmicky psychological task. But there are 20 years of research behind it.” Chein invited me to try my hand at it. Once he clicked “start” on the computer program, the screen showed a checkerboard of 16 squares, with all of them white except 1; I was supposed to remember the red square’s location. Then it showed a series of three checkerboard patterns; for each, I had to decide whether the pattern was symmetrical or not. This sequence — having to remember the one red square, and then having to decide on symmetry — was repeated three more times. At the end, I had to click, in order, on the location of those four red squares.
刚刚过去的这个冬天，我去费城参观杰森·尚的实验室，他已经开始在那里培训受试者，完成所谓“复杂工作记忆跨度任务”。“这个名称挺可怕的，”他笑着说，“你可以把它称为一个噱头十足的心理任务，但其背后蕴含着长达20年的研究工作。”尚邀请我试试手。他点击了一下电脑程序的“开始”选项，屏幕上随即出现一个由16个方块组成的棋盘，除1个外，所有方块均为白色；我需要记住红色方块的位置。随后，屏幕上显示出一系列由3个棋盘组成的图案；对于每个图案，我都需要判定它是否对称。这个序列——必须记住红色方块的位置，然后还得决定图案是否对称——又重复了3次。最后，我必须按照次序点击这4个红色方块的位置。
I got only three right.
我只点对了3个。
“Everyone gets better with practice,” he said. “Some people get up to being able to remember a string of 11 or higher.”
“只要多加练习，每个人都可以做得更好，”他说，“一些人最终能够记住一连串出现的11个红色方块，甚至更多。”
Of course, the goal is not to get better at remembering the location of red squares on a checkerboard but to expand a subject’s underlying working memory. Doing so, Chein has found, translates into the kind of real-world improvements associated with increases in cognitive capabilities. “We’ve seen, in college kids who do it, improvements in their reading-comprehension scores,” Chein said. “And in a sample of adults, 65 and older, it appears to improve their ability to keep track of what they recently said, so they don’t repeat themselves.”
当然，这项任务的目标不是更好地记住棋盘上红色方块的位置，而是增强接受实验者的工作记忆。杰森·尚发现，这样做可以转化为现实世界中那种与认知能力增加相关联的改善。“我们发现，参与这项任务后，一些大学生的阅读理解成绩大有改观，”尚说，“在一组65岁以上的成年人样本中，他们追踪其近期言论的能力似乎有所改善，不再唠唠叨叨地重复说过的话。”
In addition to working memory, researchers are seeking to improve fluid intelligence by training other basic mental skills — perceptual speed (deciding, in a matter of seconds, whether a number is odd or even), visual tracking (on a shoot-’em-up computer game, for instance) or quickly switching between a variety of tasks. Ulman Lindenberger and colleagues at the Max Planck Institute for Human Development in Berlin used 12 different tasks to train 101 younger and 103 older adults. Compared with those who received no training, those who participated in 100 daily one-hour training sessions (both young and old) showed significant improvements on tests that measured reasoning, working memory, perceptual speed (in young adults only) and episodic memory (the ability to remember a short list, for example). A statistical measure of how those improvements correlated to one another suggested, Lindenberger concluded, systematic improvements “at the level of broad abilities.”
除了工作记忆，研究人员正在寻求通过培训其他基本心理技能来提高液态智力，比如知觉速度（在几秒钟内判断一个数字是奇数还是偶数），视觉追踪（比如在电脑上玩枪战游戏），或者各种任务快速切换的能力。在柏林，马克斯·普朗克人类发展研究所(Max Planck Institute for Human Development)的厄尔曼·林登伯杰(Ulman Lindenberger)和同事使用12项不同任务培训101位年轻人和103位老年人。在参加衡量推理、工作记忆、知觉速度（只针对年轻人）和情节记忆（比如记住一份短名单的能力）的测试时，相较于没有接受过培训的人，那些每天参加1个小时训练课，连续训练100天的人（无论老少）的成绩显著改善。林登伯杰总结称，对这些改善彼此关系的统计值显示，“广泛的能力层面”均出现了系统性改进。
At the University of California, Berkeley, Silvia Bunge, director of a laboratory on the building blocks of cognition, takes what she calls “an everything-but-the-kitchen-sink approach.” Working with 28 children from low socioeconomic backgrounds, she assigned half of them to play games designed to boost the speed of response times, and the other half to play games that target reasoning skills. “Quirkle,” for instance, challenges children to align tiles on a grid to match shapes and colors. After eight weeks of training — 75 minutes per day, twice a week — Bunge found that the children in the reasoning group scored, on average, 10 points higher on a nonverbal I.Q. test than they had before the training. Four of the 17 children who played the reasoning games gained an average of more than 20 points. In another study, not yet published, Bunge found improvements in college students preparing to take the LSAT.
在加州大学伯克利分校，积木认知实验室主任西尔维娅·邦吉(Silvia Bunge)采取了“一切可以想象到的方式”。她与28位来自低社会经济背景的儿童合作，安排其中一半人玩旨在提高反应时间的游戏，另一半则被要求玩一些训练推理技能的游戏。比如，“Quirkle”挑战孩子们在一个网格上对齐瓷砖，他们需要匹配好形状和颜色。经过每天5分钟，每周两次，为期8周的训练后，邦吉发现，推理组孩童的非语言智商测试平均得分比训练前增加了10分。在玩推理游戏的17个孩子中，有4个孩子的平均分在20分以上。在另一项尚未出版的研究中，邦吉发现备考法学院入学考试(LSAT)的大学生也出现了类似改善。
Torkel Klingberg, meanwhile, has continued studying the effects of training children with his own variety of working-memory tasks. In October 2010, a company he founded to offer those tasks as a package through psychologists and other training professionals, was bought by Pearson Education, the world’s largest provider of educational assessment tools.
与此同时，托克尔·克林伯格继续研究使用多种工作记忆任务训练孩子的效果。2010年10月，他创办的一家通过心理学家和其他专业人员提供一揽子任务方案的公司，被全球最大的教育评估工具提供商培生教育出版集团(Pearson Education)收购。
Despite continuing academic debates, other commercial enterprises are rushing in to offer an array of “brain building” games that make bold promises to improve all kinds of cognitive abilities. Within a block of each other in downtown San Francisco are two of the best known. Posit Science, among the oldest in the field, remains relatively small, giving special attention to those with cognitive disorders. Lumosity began in 2007 and is now by far the biggest of the services, with more than 20 million subscribers. Its games include a sleeker, more entertaining version of the N-back task.
尽管学术争论依然在继续，其他企业正在争相提供一系列大胆声称有助于改善各种认知能力的“提升大脑”游戏。最知名的两家位于旧金山市中心，相距不足一个街区。作为该领域最资深的公司之一，Posit Science对认知障碍群体给予了特别关注，这家公司的规模仍然相对较小。创建于2007年的Lumosity公司目前拥有2000多万用户，是该领域最大的服务商。其游戏包括一款更时尚，更有趣的N-back任务。
In Chicago Heights, the magic was definitely not happening for one boy staring blankly at the black cats in the Mac Lab. Sipping from a juice box he held in one hand, jabbing at a computer key over and over with the other, he periodically sneaked a peak at his instructor, a look of abject boredom on his freckled face.
在芝加哥高地，这种神奇的效应肯定没有发生在一位男孩身上。他呆呆地望着电脑屏幕上的黑猫，一边喝一只手拿的果汁，一边用另一只手猛击电脑键盘，时不时地瞄一眼指导老师，长着雀斑的脸上显露出一副无聊透顶的表情。
“That’s the biggest challenge we have as researchers in this field,” Jaeggi told me, “to get people engaged and motivated to play our working-memory game and to really stick with it. Some people say it’s hard and really frustrating and really challenging and tiring.”
“作为这一领域的研究人员，我们面临的最大挑战在于，如何让人们积极参与工作记忆游戏，并真正坚持下去，”贾基告诉我，“一些人说游戏很难，非常令人沮丧，极富挑战性，让人感到疲倦。”
In a follow-up to their 2008 study in young adults, Jaeggi, Buschkuehl and their colleagues published a paper last year that described the effects of N-back training in 76 elementary- and middle-school children from a broad range of social and economic backgrounds. Only those children who improved substantially on the N-back training had gains in fluid intelligence. But their improvement wasn’t linked to how high they originally scored on Raven’s; children at all levels of cognitive ability improved. And those gains persisted for three months after the training ended, a heartening sign of possible long-term benefits. Although it’s unknown how much longer the improvement in fluid intelligence will last, Jaeggi doubts the effects will be permanent without continued practice. “Do we think they’re now smarter for the rest of their lives by just four weeks of training?” she asks. “We probably don’t think so. We think of it like physical training: if you go running for a month, you increase your fitness. But does it stay like that for the rest of your life? Probably not.”
继2008年发布关于年轻人的研究报告后，贾基和布施库尔等人去年发布了另一篇论文，描述了76位社会和经济背景迥异的中小学学生接受N-back训练的效果。只有那些N-back训练成绩显著改善的孩子的液态智力有所增进。但这种改善与他们原本的瑞文氏标准推理测验得分高低没有关联；这些孩子的各级认知能力全面改善。训练结束3个月后，这些成果依然存在，这一令人鼓舞的迹象显示，收益或许是长期的。尽管研究人员不知道液态智力的改善还将持续多长时间，但贾基认为，如果不继续练习，这些影响可能不会永久性地持续下去。“仅仅训练4周后获得的智力改进是否将延续一辈子？”她问。“我们可能不这么认为。在我们看来，它就像体能训练：如果你坚持跑一个月，你就会变得更加健康。但这种身体状态能否延续一生？大概不会。”
If future studies confirm the benefits of working-memory training on fluid intelligence, the implications could be enormous. Might children with A.D.H.D. receive working-memory training rather than stimulant drugs like Ritalin? Might students in high school and college do N-back training rather than cramming for their finals? Could a journalist like me write better articles?
如果未来的研究证实了工作记忆训练给液态智力带来的好处，其影响可能是巨大的。许多患有注意力不足过动症的孩子，是否将接受工作记忆训练，而不是去吃利他林这类刺激性药物？迎接期末考试的高中生和大学生是否将接受N-back训练，而不是填鸭式地啃书本？像我这样的记者，是否能写出更好的文章？
Of course, in order to improve, you need to do the training. For some, whether brilliant or not so much, training may simply be too hard — or too boring.
当然，为了提高智力，你需要不断训练。对于一些人（无论他或她有多聪明）来说，这类训练或许太艰难，或太无聊了。
To increase motivation, the study in Chicago Heights offers third graders a chance to win a $10 prepaid Visa card each week. In collaboration with researchers from the University of Chicago’s Initiative on Chicago Price Theory (directed by Steven D. Levitt, of “Freakonomics” fame), the study pits the kids against one another, sometimes one on one, sometimes in groups, to see if competition will spur them to try harder. Each week, whichever group receives more points on the N-back is rewarded with the Visa cards. To isolate the motivating effects of the cash prizes, a group of fourth graders is undergoing N-back training with the same black-cats-in-haunted-house program, but with no Visa cards, only inexpensive prizes — plastic sunglasses, inflatable globes — as a reward for not talking and staying in their seats.
为了提高积极性，研究人员为芝加哥高地的三年级学生提供了一个赢取10美元预付Visa卡的机会。这项研究与芝加哥大学芝加哥价格理论中心(Initiative on Chicago Price Theory)——该中心负责人是以《怪诞经济学》(Freakonomics)一书成名的史蒂芬·莱维特(Steven D. Levitt)教授——合作，让孩子们相互竞争，有时是一对一，有时是分组，以观察竞争能否激励他们更加努力地训练。研究人员每周把Visa卡奖励给N-back积分最高的小组。为了区分奖金的激励效果，一组四年级学生正在使用相同的鬼屋黑猫程序进行N-back训练，但研究人员只提供诸如塑料太阳镜和充气地球仪这类廉价奖品，而非Visa卡，来奖励不说话，乖乖地坐在座位上的学生。
The boy tapping randomly at his computer without even paying attention to the game? He was in the fourth-grade class. Although the study is not yet complete, perhaps it will show that the opportunity to increase intelligence is not motivation enough. Just like physical exercise, cognitive exercises may prove to be up against something even more resistant to training than fluid intelligence: human nature.
不过，这些奖品显然没有打动那个正在随意轻拍电脑，根本就没有关注游戏的四年级男生。尽管这项研究尚未完成，但它或许将显示，增强智力的机会并不是足够的动力。就像锻炼身体一样，认知练习将对抗的或许不止是液态智力，而是一种更加抵触训练的东西：人类的天性。