Nearly four years after the sudden death of Alexander McQueen rocked the fashion world, the new book “Alexander McQueen: Working Process” (Damiani, $60) documents the designer’s fall-winter 2009 collection, which McQueen intended as a culmination of 15 years of his work to that point. He recruited the photographer Nick Waplington to capture the creation of the collection, from sketches to fittings to a final runway show. The images, many of which capture the designer in moments of joy, grief and strife, present a haunting portrait of a designer at work. Here, Waplington recalls the process.
差不多四年前，亚历山大·麦昆(Alexander McQueen)的突然死亡震惊了时装界。如今，一本名为《亚历山大·麦昆：工作过程》(Alexander McQueen: Working Process, Damiani出版社，60美元）的新书记录了这位设计师2009秋冬系列的制作过程，麦昆把这个系列视为自己15年事业的高峰。他聘请摄影师尼克·沃普灵顿(Nick Waplington)来记录这个系列的创作过程，从绘制草图、试装到最后的时装秀。照片捕捉了这位设计师工作中开心、忧伤和争吵的时刻，让人难以忘怀。下面是沃普灵顿对那个过程的回顾。
Q. How did the book come about?
问：这本影集是怎么诞生的？
A. I am an art photographer. Lee — that is what we called him — was a friend and had some of my work. He came to me and said he wanted me to make him a photo book. It would be my photo book, and he would be the subject matter. I have never taken a book commission before. He just asked me to do it, and I did.
答：我是个艺术摄影师。李——我们都这么称呼他——是我的朋友，他有我的一些作品。他来找我，说想让我给他拍一本摄影集。摄影集将算是我的作品，他充当拍摄主题。我以前从未接受过拍摄影集这样的委托。他请我拍，我就拍了。
What do you think he wanted to convey with it? 
你觉得他想通过这本影集表达什么？
He was very worried that his legacy be preserved, and he felt that I was someone who could do that for him. That was what the project was about for him. His legacy and that people would see this inside view of him at work.
他很担心自己的遗产能否得到很好的保护，他感觉我是能为他做这件事的人。对他来说，这个项目的意义就在于此——保护他的遗产以及让人们看到他的工作内幕。
Why do you think he wanted to document the fall/winter 2009 collection as opposed to any other?
你觉得他为什么想记录2009秋冬系列，而不是其他系列？
He decided it was the end of the first phase of his production. He wanted to draw the previous 15 years of work to a close by revisiting all his ideas and processes. So he decided that he would bring back people he had collaborated with, from jewelry designers to makeup people. Even models. It was the year after the financial meltdown, and he saw that as a good time for change and renewal. He saw his work as a mirror of society, and himself as an artist rather than just a fashion designer.
他认为那是他第一阶段创作的终结。他想通过重温自己的所有想法和创作过程，把之前15年的工作做一个了结。所以他决定把以前合作过的人找来——珠宝设计师、化妆师，甚至包括模特。那是在经济危机之后的一年，他认为那是改变和复兴的好时机。他认为自己的作品是反映社会的一面镜子，他认为自己是艺术家，而非时装设计师。
Was there anything you weren’t allowed to photograph?
有没有什么东西是不允许你拍摄的？
The only thing I could not photograph was him smoking in the studio because smoking in buildings is not allowed, and he was worried about getting in trouble with city authorities.
我唯一不能拍摄的是他在工作室里抽烟，因为在室内抽烟是不允许的，他担心市政府找他麻烦。
What was the studio environment like?
他工作室的环境是怎样的？
I informed the people who worked there not to talk to me. It is kind of the way I work. I get the pictures because I don’t get involved. I am the anti-Terry Richardson. I am not in the thick of the action, I am in the background. What I am doing is looking for moments. It would be a normal working environment over a six-month period. I started with Lee in the drawing stage, then in the studio in London where the basic garments were being put together. The team would bring in large rolls of cloth, and Lee would take scissors and pins and cut and build the clothes on the models. The women would pin as he cut and folded. A layer would be created very quickly and that would go off to be hemmed or put together. I had been told that some fashion designers work by committee and are behind a desk ordering people around. Obviously, with him it is the act of creation that he was doing himself and that is what he wanted to show. I just kind of photographed things as they went along. When we were editing the pictures, Lee created the sequence.
我请在那里工作的人不要跟我说话。那是我的工作方式。我能拍照片是因为我不介入其中。我跟泰利·理查森(Terry Richardson)的做法正好相反。我不在他们的工作之中，而是藏在幕后。我要做的是寻找值得拍摄的时刻。在那六个月时间里，那里的工作环境是正常的。从绘图阶段起我就和李在一起，然后去伦敦的工作室，在那里把服装基本做好。他的团队会带去大卷大卷的布料，李会亲自裁剪，用别针别住，在模特身上修改。他剪裁和折叠的时候，那些女人们会用别针别住。很快就能做好一个层次，然后再缝边或者把各个部分缝到一起。我听说，有些设计师坐在桌子后面指挥别人干。很明显，他是亲自进行这个创作过程，那是他想展示的东西。他们工作的时候，我就拍照。我们编辑那些图片时，李负责排序。
How did he work? Did you sense that the pressure was overwhelming to him?
他是怎么工作的？你感到那种让他难以承受的压力了吗？
He did feel an incredible amount of pressure. He was definitely an emotional man, and if you are creative I feel like you need that pressure as an outlet. With him it was a double-edged sword. The rigor of the work is a good thing but then it is a difficult thing.
他的确感到无比巨大的压力。他无疑是个容易激动的人。如果你是从事创造性工作的，我觉得你需要那种压力作为一种宣泄途径。对他来说，压力是把双刃剑。那份工作的艰苦是件好事，但同时也很难承受。
Was he happy with the collection?
他对这个系列满意吗？
Yes, he was. You never know when you create something if other people are going to like it. I remember the positive reaction of The New York Times gave him a lift. Also, Anna Wintour didn’t make the show but she went to preview before the show and was very complimentary. Lee was very nervous before she came. I was surprised how edgy he was about things. People say that he has this duality as this vulnerable child and this hard-nosed, in-your-face man. This was his vulnerable side showing before the show.
是的，他很满意。你永远不知道你创作的东西其他人是否喜欢。我记得《纽约时报》对这个系列的正面评价让他大受鼓舞。另外，安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)虽然没能观看那场时装秀，但是她看了预演，并大加赞赏。她来之前，李特别紧张。他当时的急躁不安让我很吃惊。人们说他有双面性，既像个脆弱的孩子，又像个顽固、放肆的大人。在时装秀前，他展现出来的是脆弱的一面。
Do you have a favorite image in the book?
这本影集中有没有哪张照片是你特别喜欢的？
I like the picture of him with his hands on his hips of him smiling at me. It is not normally the kind of picture I would like. When I chose that picture out of the thousands of photos I had, I did not know what was going to happen and I thought to myself, “This is a really great picture because you always hear about him being so grumpy and here he is at work smiling and having a good time and things are going well.” I really like that picture.
我喜欢那张他把双手叉在腰上对我微笑的照片。它不是我通常喜欢的那类照片。当我从成千上万张照片中挑出那一张时，我不知道会发生什么，我心里想：“这真是张好照片，因为人们总是说他脾气暴躁，但是在这张照片里，他工作的时候在微笑，很快乐，一切都很好。”我真的喜欢那张照片。
Why did the book take so long to come out?
为什么这本书用了这么长时间才出版？
By the time we finished the book it was quite close to the time that he died, and the McQueen Company asked me if I would wait. I felt that this is the only book he is ever going to make himself and there was no point in rushing it out and having it with all the ambulance-chasing books that came after his death.
我们完成这本书的时候，他刚去世不久，麦昆公司问我是否可以等一等。我感觉这是他唯一打算用来表达自己的一本书，所以我们没理由匆忙赶制出来，和那些在他去世后涌现出来跟风炒作的图书摆在一起。
Given that the collection was about closing a chapter, did he ever reveal what he wanted for the future? 
那个系列是想终结他人生的一个篇章，他有没有说过他将来想做什么？
Yes, he did. I know exactly what he had in mind next. At the moment I do not think I am at liberty to say, but I know exactly what was next. It was very, very different. It was not fashion. I think ultimately he was looking for a way out of fashion.
是的。我确切地知道他下一步想做什么。但是此刻我觉得我不能随便说出来，但是我的确知道。跟他从前做的事很不同。跟时装无关。我想他最终是在寻找一条离开时装界的出路。