HIROSHIMA, Japan — Hiromi Hasai was being trained to make machine gun bullets when the flash from the atomic bomb that destroyed his city lit up the already bright morning sky. Just 14, he had been pulled from school a week before to help Japan’s failing war effort.
日本广岛——闪光时，那枚摧毁了整座城市的原子弹将本已大亮的上午的天空照得通明。那个时刻，叶佐井博巳(Hiromi Hasai)正在接受制造机关枪子弹的训练。他年仅14岁，一周前被人带离学校，帮助日本挽回败局。
Mr. Hasai, now 84, has often talked publicly of his experiences that day, 70 years ago Thursday, when the first of the only two nuclear weapons ever used in war ultimately killed more than 100,000 people. The victims included hundreds of his classmates, who were still at their school near the blast’s epicenter. The bullet factory, 10 miles out of town, was paradoxically a haven.
叶佐井如今84岁，常常公开讲述自己在那一天的经历。70年前的这个周四，人类历史中唯二在战争中使用过的核武器中的第一枚引爆，最终导致逾10万人丧生，其中包括叶佐井的数百名同学。他们学校就在爆炸中心附近，而那些同学当时留在了校园里。那座子弹厂离城有10英里远，反而成了避难所。
Yet the things that Mr. Hasai saw and felt that day are not recounted by him alone. The person who knows his story best, after Mr. Hasai himself, is Ritsuko Kinoshita, a woman 25 years his junior who is serving as his “denshosha” — the designated transmitter of his memories. It is part of an unusual and highly personal project to preserve and pass on the experiences of atomic bomb survivors, whose numbers are dwindling rapidly.
不过，讲述叶佐井当天所见所闻所感的，并非他一个人。除了叶佐井本人，最了解他这段历史的便是木下律子(Ritsuko Kinoshita)。她比叶佐井小25岁，是他的“被爆体验传承者”(denshosha)，获得指定来继承他的记忆。这属于一个不同寻常的项目，饱含个人色彩，为的是让人数在迅速减少的原子弹幸存者的体验得以保留和传承。
Mr. Hasai, a retired university physics researcher with a quick and infectious laugh, is still healthy, as are many of the survivors. But the object for Ms. Kinoshita and roughly 50 other volunteer denshosha is to keep telling the stories they have inherited once the witnesses become too frail to do so, to keep alive memories of a traumatic event that has anchored the pacifist sentiment that has pervaded the country ever since.
叶佐井是退休的大学物理研究员，会发出有感染力的笑声。与许多幸存者一样，他仍然身体健康。不过，木下女士与其他50名左右的传承者的目标是，一旦目击者身体衰弱，能由他们将继承而来的故事讲述下去，从而让这起灾难事件的记忆保持鲜活。正是这次灾难确立了日本自此盛行的和平主义情绪。
Today, however, the depth of that sentiment is being severely tested. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, the first Japanese leader born after the war, is working to loosen restrictions on Japan’s military power imposed by the victorious Allies. He is not the first prime minister to seek more freedom of action for Japan, but he is taking the project a step further than his predecessors. Three generations after the conflict, he argues that Japan has earned the right to be a more normal country.
然而，时至今日，这种情绪面临严峻挑战。现任首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)是日本首位战后出生的领导人，目前正在努力给获胜的同盟国对日本军力设置的种种限制松绑。安倍并非为日本寻求更大行动权的第一个首相，但他比那些前任都走得更远。距离当年的冲突过去了三代人，他认为日本已经赢得了成为正常国家的权利。
While some of his proposals have generated widespread opposition — notably a bill now before Parliament that would allow the government to dispatch forces abroad to back up the United States military — the war no longer casts the shadow it once did.
虽然安倍的部分提议激起了广泛的反对之声，尤其是供国会审议的一项提案将允许政府向海外派兵支持美军，但那场战争的影响的确已不及过往。
“Even in Hiroshima, memories are fading,” said Hidemichi Kawanishi, a history professor at Hiroshima University. There has been much hand-wringing, he said, over a survey released this week by NHK, the national public broadcaster, showing that 30 percent of the city’s residents could not name the date the bomb was dropped. (Nationwide, 70 percent could not cite the date.)
“就算是在广岛，记忆也在褪色，”广岛大学(Hiroshima University)的历史学教授河西英通(Hidemichi Kawanishi)说。他表示，国家公共广播公司NHK上周公布的一份民调显示，有30%的广岛居民说不出核爆的具体日期（全国范围内的这项数据为70%），激起了不少担忧情绪。
It is a trend that many survivors and their denshosha would like to reverse, or at least slow. Ms. Kinoshita has spent years at Mr. Hasai’s side as he has addressed groups of students, educators and visitors to Hiroshima’s Peace Memorial Museum, near the skeletal monument of its Atomic Bomb Dome.
许多幸存者和他们的传承者希望扭转这一趋势，或者至少能延缓它。多年来，叶佐井向一群群的学生、教育工作者，以及广岛和平纪念资料馆(Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum)的访客发表演讲时，木下就待在他的身边。距离这座纪念资料馆不远的地方，坐落着那栋残破的原爆圆顶屋(Atomic Bomb Dome)。
She can describe how he and his young fellow workers did what they could for the “ghost people” who poured from the city in the hours after the bombing, many with burns so horrific that their flesh fell away when they were touched. She recounts his walk back to town through ruined, corpse-filled streets to find his mother and sister, who miraculously also survived.
木下可以说出叶佐井和年轻的同事们如何竭尽所能地帮助那些在爆炸后的几个小时里从广岛城里涌出的“幽灵”，其中很多人烧伤严重，一旦被人触碰，身上的皮肉就会掉落下来。她还能描述叶佐井穿过满是废墟和尸体的街道走回城里的经历。在那里，他找到了奇迹般生还的母亲和姐妹。
“I’m trying to recount his life and his way of thinking as purely as possible,” she said.
“我会尽量纯粹地还原他的生活和思维方式，”木下说。
The number of officially recognized survivors of the nuclear attacks fell by about 6,000 last year, and is now below 200,000. Their average age is over 80.
官方认定的核爆幸存者去年减少了约6000人，目前的总人数不到20万。他们平均已过耄耋之年。
Professor Kawanishi called the denshosha project, supported by the city-funded museum, an attempt to preserve some of the moral and emotional influences wielded by those with direct experience of the bomb. Although many survivors have left records of their experiences in memoirs and documentaries, which are widely available to the public, they often end up treated as dry historical records.
传承者项目得到了广岛市资助的和平纪念资料馆的支持。河西教授表示，这个项目是为了在一定程度上保留直接体验了核爆的那些人身上带有的道德和情感影响力。尽管不少幸存者以回忆录和纪录片的形式留下有关自身经历的记录，而且公众可以广泛查阅，但这些往往被看成是干巴巴的历史文献。
“The denshosha are essentially putting themselves in the position of that person, so the survivor doesn’t permanently disappear,” he said. They have an authority that comes with the survivor’s blessing to be “heirs” to their stories, he said, and a mandate to keep finding audiences. Survivors often visit schools, for instance, something denshosha could do in their place.
“传承者实际上是把自己放在了幸存者的位置上，这样幸存者就永远不会消失，”河西表示。按照他的说法，传承者是得到幸存者授权的个人经历“传人”，并且有义务去不断寻找听众。比方说，幸存者总是前往学校，而传承者也可以用他们的名义这么做。
“It’s a very interesting experiment in forming and preserving collective memories,” Professor Kawanishi said.
“对于如何形成和保存集体记忆，这是一个十分有趣的尝试，”河西说。
So far that experiment is a small one. Ms. Kinoshita, a former tour guide, has known Mr. Hasai for nearly 20 years, since she began giving volunteer tours at the Peace Memorial Museum in her spare time. But the museum did not start recruiting formal denshosha until 2011. So far 13 bomb survivors have agreed to be paired with one or more denshosha, who are required to spend at least three years shadowing and meeting with the survivor before telling their stories in public. One of the survivors has since died.
目前，这个试验开展的范围还很小。20多年前，曾做导游工作的木下律子开始利用业余时间在和平纪念资料馆(Peace Memorial Museum)志愿带领游客参观时，就认识了叶佐井博巳。但博物馆直到2011年才正式开始招募被爆体验传承者。目前有13名原子弹幸存者已经同意与一个或更多传承者搭配起来。这些传承者将用至少三年时间如影随形地跟在幸存者身旁，与他们会面，之后才能公开讲述他们的故事。项目启动至今，有一名幸存者已经离世。
Ms. Kinoshita and Mr. Hasai say they have faced criticism from survivors not involved in the project, who question whether someone who did not experience the bomb directly can claim to speak for those who did. Others say such a role should be reserved for family members. Some denshosha are children of the survivors, but many are not, and children are not always willing or able to be public representatives of their parents’ suffering.
木下和叶佐井表示，他们曾遭受没有参与这个项目的幸存者的指责，这些人质疑一个不曾直接经历原子弹爆炸的人能否替那些真正经历过的人代言。还有人表示，传承者这样的角色应该由幸存者的家人来担任。有些被爆体验传承者是幸存者的子女，但很多不是，而幸存者的子女们并不都愿意或有能力为他们父母的受难经历做公开代言。
“I’ve been told more than once that I have no right to tell their stories,” Ms. Kinoshita said, before leaving to guide a group of high school students around the Atomic Bomb Dome, armed with Mr. Hasai’s memories. When she speaks to groups in the museum’s lecture halls, she says, she shows them a PowerPoint presentation based largely on his recollections.
“我没有权利讲述他们的故事，不止一次有人这么对我说，”木下说道，她正准备离开，怀揣着叶佐井的故事，去带领一群高中学生参观原爆圆顶屋。她说在博物馆的讲堂里对一个个参观群体讲述时，她的PPT演示稿主要就是基于叶佐井的回忆。
Mr. Hasai said training successors to tell survivors’ stories was better than “having them fade into old fairy tales.” He said he would like to see the program expanded to allow denshosha to tell the stories of people who died years earlier, but who left records in the years soon after the war that are now in the museum’s archives.
叶佐井表示，训练传承者讲述幸存者的故事，总比“让它们变成古老的民间故事要好。”他说他希望看到这个项目进一步扩展，让传承者讲述早先已去世但是在战争结束之后不久的几年里留下记录的幸存者的故事，这些记录现在就保存在纪念资料馆里。
“There are all kinds of records, but how many people actually seek them out?” he said. “The freshest memories are stuck in an archive.”
“那里有各种各样的记载，但有多少人会真的找出来看呢？”他说。“最鲜活的记忆却沉睡在档案里。”