Daniel Berehulak was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for feature photography on Monday for his coverage of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa for The New York Times. The staff of the St Louis Post-Dispatch won the prize for Breaking News Photography for their coverage of the aftermath of the police shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri.
周一，丹尼尔·贝雷胡拉克(Daniel Berehulak)凭借为《纽约时报》拍摄的记录西非埃博拉疫情的作品，赢得了普利策专题摄影奖。《圣路易斯邮报快报》(St Louis Post-Dispatch)的员工对密苏里州弗格森警方枪杀迈克尔·布朗(Michael Brown)一事的报道，赢得了普利策突发新闻摄影奖。
Mr. Berehulak, a freelance photographer who works mostly for the Times, has spent four months since August covering the Ebola crisis in Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea. As he covered the story’s full arc, he took few breaks and many precautions.
自由摄影师贝雷胡拉克主要为时报工作，他从去年8月开始花了四个月的时间报道利比里亚、塞拉利昂和几内亚的埃博拉危机。在报道事件发展的整个过程中，他几乎没有休息，而且采取了很多预防措施。
“This award makes me think of all the people that shared their lives with me so that I was able to document this ghastly and horrible virus,” Mr. Berehulak said. “It preys on our humanity — on everything that makes us human. People can’t hold their loved ones in their last dying moments because that’s when the virus is the most potent.”At one point, he set up a makeshift studio at a treatment center to make portraits of those on the front lines of the disease, from doctors to gravediggers.
“这个奖让我想起了所有与我分享生活故事的人，有了他们我才能记录下这种可怕的病毒，”贝雷胡拉克说。“它吞噬了我们的人性——吞噬了所有让人成为人的情感。人们不能在至爱之人奄奄一息时抱住他们，因为此时病毒最强。”他曾一度在治疗中心设立了临时工作室，记录工作在疫情前线的人们的身影，从医生到掘墓人。
“Daniel’s images are those that have become the most memorable of the tragedy,” said Michele McNally, the Times’s director of photography. “He would not let go of the story, spent as much time as he could and was very patient in letting the situations unfold before him.  It is a combination of superb photography, impactful storytelling and persistence and bravery that makes these pictures resonate.”
“丹尼尔的作品已经成为这场悲剧中最令人难忘的图片，”《纽约时报》摄影总监米歇尔·麦克纳利(Michele McNally)说。“他紧紧抓住这个故事不放，会花尽可能多的时间，耐心等待各种事态在他面前发生。这是精湛的摄影技术、有力的叙事，以及坚持和勇敢品质的结合，这些因素使得照片能够引发共鸣。”
Monday’s announcement by Columbia University, which administers the prizes, marks the seventh photography Pulitzer for the Times. The Times also had two finalists in the breaking news category with group entries from Gaza (Sergey Ponomarev, Tyler Hicks and Wissam Nassar) and from Ukraine (Mauricio Lima, Sergey Ponomarev and Uriel Sinai).
管理该奖项的哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)第七次将普利策摄影奖颁发给时报。时报还有两组作品进入了突发新闻摄影奖的角逐名单，入围作品来自加沙（谢尔盖·波诺马廖夫[Sergey Ponomarev]、泰勒·希克斯[Tyler Hicks]和维萨姆·内萨尔[Wissam Nassar]）和乌克兰（毛里齐奥·利马[Mauricio Lima]、谢尔盖·波诺马廖夫和尤利尔·西奈[Uriel Sinai]）。
David Furst, the Times’s international picture editor, said he decided to send Mr. Berehulak to West Africa because he knew Mr. Berehulak would dig in. For Mr. Berehulak, the decision was simple, despite the dangers, because, he said, the virus was “affecting all of mankind.” To cover the story, he had to take many precautions, often encasing himself from head to toe in protective gear, while confronting extreme physical and emotional hardships.
时报国际图片编辑戴维·富尔斯特(David Furst)表示，他当时决定派贝雷胡拉克前往西非，是因为他知道贝雷胡拉克会深入挖掘事件。对于贝雷胡拉克来说，这个决定很简单，尽管存在危险，因为他表示，这种病毒“正在影响整个人类”。为了进行报道，他需要采取很多预防措施，经常用防护装备将自己从头到脚包起来，同时还要直面身体及情绪上极其艰难的时刻。
“Daniel was a veteran of war zones, but this was a new kind of danger,” Mr. Furst said. “He had to face senseless death day after day, and it was soul crushing. He was not ever able to let his guard down and was working in excruciating heat with layers of protection.”
“丹尼尔是行走战地的老兵，但这是一种新危险，”富尔斯特说。“他每天都要面对无谓的死亡，这让他备受折磨。他不能放下防备，要一直穿戴着一层层的防护装置，汗流浃背地开展工作。”
Mr. Berhulak was so immersed in the story that he did not want to leave, and he ended up staying in West Africa 67 days straight before taking a break.
贝雷胡拉克专注于报道，根本不想离开，连续在西非待了67天后才稍事休息。
“Monrovia was being ravaged and there were bodies lying in the street,” he said of the capital of Liberia. “Burial teams couldn’t pick up bodies fast enough, and the Ebola treatment facilities were overflowing. I felt it was my responsibility to stay there for as long as I could because my photographs were being seen by people around the world.”
“蒙罗维亚正在被摧毁，大街上有很多尸体，”他形容利比里亚首都时说。“入殓队收尸的速度不够快，埃博拉治疗设施人满为患。我觉得有责任待久一点，因为我的照片能被全世界的人们看到。”
Despite the global attention, he said he was “shocked” at the time that few news organizations were sending journalists to cover the outbreak. There were people who did very important work, he said, but there were “many organizations that didn’t devote their efforts and journalistic abilities to this important story.”
尽管受到了全球关注，他说当发现没有几家新闻机构派记者报道疫情时，他还是感到了“震惊”。他说，有人在这里做了非常重要的工作，但“许多机构都没有把精力和新闻报道的资源，投入到这个重要的事件上”。
Mr. Berehulak grew up on a farm an hour and a half from Sydney, Australia, where his parents settled after emigrating from Ukraine after World War II. He became interested in photography as a child and took pictures as he traveled as a college volleyball player. After his sister died of Lupus when he was 23, he said he “realized that life was short” and decided to turn his passion for photography into a career.
贝雷胡拉克在距离澳大利亚悉尼一个半小时车程的一座农场上长大。二战后，他的父母从乌克兰移民来这里定居。小时候他就开始对摄影感兴趣，当他作为大学排球运动员前往各地时，总会拍摄照片。23岁时，他的一个姐妹死于红斑狼疮，他说自己“意识到了生命的短暂”，决定把自己对摄影的热情变成职业。
He was hired by Getty in 2005 in London and transferred to India four years later. He resigned in 2013 to be able to “pursue more long-term projects,” and started freelancing, mostly for Times. Represented by Getty Images Reportage, Mr. Berehulak has worked in more than 50 countries and won three World Press Photo awards, as well as the John Faber Award from the Overseas Press Club. In February, he was named photographer of the year in the reportage category in the Pictures of the Year International Contest.
2005年，他在伦敦被Getty聘用，并于四年后被派驻印度。2013年，他为了能“开展更多的长期项目”而辞职，之后开始担任自由职业者，期间主要在为时报工作。贝拉胡拉克由Getty图片报道(Getty Images Reportage)代表，曾在50多个国家工作，并曾三次获得世界新闻摄影大赛（World Press Photo，中文常称为“荷赛”）奖项，以及海外记者俱乐部(Overseas Press Club)颁发的约翰·费伯奖(John Faber Award)。2月，他在全球年度图片奖(Pictures of the Year International)中获得了报道类年度摄影师的称号。
“You need to spend time and treat the people you photograph with the utmost respect and show them in the most dignified way possible,” Mr. Berehulak said. “Everyone is human and I don’t see any hierarchy. That’s a fundamental part of portraying people and people’s lives.”
“你需要付出时间，用最大的尊重来对待你所拍摄的人物，并用最有尊严的方式来展现他们，”贝拉胡拉克说。“每个人都是人，我看不到任何等级。对于描述人和人们的生活，这是很基本的一点。”
And for him, covering Ebola so intensively was ultimately about portraying people, to show not just the bodies, but how the disease tore apart families and communities. It was, he said, daunting.
在他看来，如此集中地报道埃博拉，说到底是在描绘人，不只是展示尸体，还要展现疾病是如何让家庭和社区分崩离析的。他说，这令人望而生畏。
“Covering the spread and devastating impact of the Ebola virus in West Africa is by far the most challenging and important assignment of my career,” he said in remarks to the Times newsroom. “It was not war in the conventional sense, it was not a conflict that was wholly visible. But it was in so many ways a battle that captivated and frightened the world. And I would be lying to say I was not also afraid at times.”
“报道埃博拉病毒在西非的蔓延和它所造成的灾难性影响，是我职业生涯中所从事的最最具有挑战性也最最重要的任务，”他在对时报编辑部发表的讲话中说。“它不是常规意义上的战争，不是一场完全可见的冲突。但它在很多方面都是一场令世界关注和恐惧的战斗。说我从来没感到害怕，那是在撒谎。”
But it was the strength and resilience that he witnessed among people that kept him going.
不过，他在人们身上见到的那种力量和坚韧，成了他前进的动力。