For five weeks last year Adam Dean, a photographer, and I reported on fishing boats in the South China Sea and in Thai, Malaysian and Indonesian port towns for a story about forced labor in the fishing industry.
去年，我和摄影师亚当·迪恩(Adam Dean)用了五周时间，前往南海的渔船和泰国、马来西亚、印度尼西亚的港口城镇报道渔业的强制劳工问题。
Our goal was to get as far from shore as possible onto the long haul boats, which are becoming more common globally as the number of fish near land dwindles. These boats are virtually never accessed by outsiders and, as a result, they are reputed to have more extreme working conditions.
我们的目标是离岸越远越好，到那些远海作业的渔船上去。随着近海的鱼越来越少，远海捕捞在世界各地更常见了。这些船基本上没进过外人，因此相比其他船只，据说工作条件更是极其恶劣。
Getting onto these boats was not easy. Most of the fishermen at the wharves we visited declined to take us on board. The only ones who would consider it refused to allow us to embark at port. No one wants to be seen shuttling foreigners out to sea, they explained; the industry has a bad enough reputation already.
要上这些船并非易事。我们在码头接触的渔民大都回绝了。仅有的几个愿意考虑的，也不允许我们在码头上船。他们说这一行的名声已经很差，谁也不想被人看到夹带着外国人出海。
Eventually we got where we needed to go — nearly a hundred miles off the coast of Thailand — by hopscotching from boat to boat. One captain took us several dozen miles out. He radioed another friendly captain who took us out farther. And so on.
最终我们如愿以偿，通过多艘船的接力，到达距离泰国海岸将近100英里（约合160公里）的海域。每艘船带我们走几十英里。然后用无线电通知另一位相熟的船长把我们接走。就这样一艘接一艘。
The captain who took us on the first leg of our trip agreed to let us on board as long as we promised to keep out of the crew’s way. The ship was a purse seiner (as opposed to a bottom trawler), which means it uses large nets to trap schools of mostly small, forage fish to be used in pet food and livestock feed.
负责载我们第一程的那位船长说，要想上船必须答应他别妨碍船员做事。那是一艘围网船（与之相对应的是拖网船），也就是用巨大的渔网设陷阱围捕鱼群，其中以用于生产宠物食品和牲畜饲料的小型饵料鱼为主。
The majority of Thai-flagged vessels in the South China Sea are worked by migrants who are trafficked illegally into the country. The cost of their trip becomes a debt that is sold to ship captains. Migrants typically stay on board the fishing boats, often against their will, until they have repaid their debts.
南海上挂泰国旗的船大多使用非法入境的移民劳工。入境这一趟的费用，被作为他们的一笔债务转包给船长。移民通常会在渔船上工作，并且往往是被迫的，直到还清债务为止。
The purse seiner boat was dirty — and dangerous. The air inside smelled of diesel fumes and fish innards. Roaches scurried everywhere. When the ship pitched, the possibility of slipping and falling overboard was a deadly reality. An especially unfriendly dog took a particular disliking to us. Patrolling the middle deck, she lunged and snarled whenever we neared the wheelhouse.
这艘围网船很脏，也很危险。空气中弥漫着柴油和鱼内脏的气味。到处是蟑螂。在海上颠簸的时候，脚下一滑掉入海中的可能性是绝对存在的。船上有只凶神恶煞的狗，尤其看我们不顺眼。她在中层甲板上巡逻，我们离操舵室稍近了点，就会惹得她一阵狂吠。
Communicating with the crew was a lot like playing charades. Few of the men spoke English. Our translator split her time between Adam and me until she fell severely seasick after we hit choppy water, at which point she vomited whenever she tried to stand up.
和船员的沟通就像玩字谜游戏。没什么人会说英语。我们的翻译要在我和亚当之间来回奔走，后来到了颠簸的水域，她开始晕船，严重的时候一站起来就吐。
Meals presented a reporting dilemma. We risked offending our hosts — and a chance to bond with them — if we declined the food they offered. On the other hand, partaking in their barely boiled squid and rice was an intestinal gamble.
一日三餐成了报道中的一大难题。如果拒绝他们提供的食物，我们可能会得罪主人，失去跟他们套近乎的机会。但同时，他们那些只是过水煮一下的鱿鱼和米饭，吃起来又是一场肠胃的豪赌。
Around 2 a.m. there came a lull in work, and virtually the entire crew disappeared into a tight room with a low ceiling maybe four feet from the floor. The men climbed into cramped, cocoon-like hammocks made of fishing nets and suspended from above. Adam and I guessed that the men preferred the hammocks because they swayed, soothingly like cradles, rolling with the ship. Having not slept for 48 hours, we decided to spread out on the floor.
凌晨两点左右有一段休息时间，几乎所有船员都钻进了一个大概只有四英尺高的狭窄船舱里。男人们爬上用紧绷的渔网做的吊床，蚕茧般悬在半空。亚当和我猜测，他们选择用吊床是因为可以随船摇摆，像摇篮一样舒适。已经48小时没合眼的我们决定打地铺。
We lay down under a hammock and went to sleep. I was awakened soon after by a jolt of adrenaline and the sickening sensation that a small creature was scampering up my leg. Trying to sit up, I slammed my head into the back of the man above me. My headlamp fell to the floor, turned on, and illuminated the dozens of rats that were scurrying across the floor. Some busied themselves cleaning the crew’s half-empty bowls; others looked like rioters looting stores as they darted in and out of crew duffel bags.
我们在一张吊床下方睡着了。没过多久，我在一阵肾上腺素的冲击中醒来，有个小东西正在我腿上恶心地蹦着。我企图坐起来，结果一头撞到上面那人的背。我的头灯掉到地上，亮了起来，光线所及，几十只老鼠在地上蹿来蹿去。一些忙着吃船员的剩饭；另一些则像洗劫商店的暴徒一样进出于船员的帆布袋。
We moved outside to the upper deck, perched Indian-style, on top of a fish barrel and tried to sleep. We were awakened two hours later — at about 5 a.m. — when the captain blasted an air horn next to our perch. A few moments later, the crew was back on deck, spreading out their hammocks for the next netting.
于是我们来到上层甲板，打坐在一个鱼桶上睡觉。两小时后，也就是凌晨五点左右，我们被安放在不远处的汽笛吵醒。过了一会，船员们回到甲板上，把他们的吊床摊开，准备下一轮的捕捞。