ROANOKE, Va. — Colleagues of the journalists slain a day earlier had a grief-filled return to work here on Thursday, clinging to one another for support and unsure if it was safe to venture out, while Democratic politicians and one victim’s father said the shooting showed the need for tougher gun laws.
维吉尼亚州洛亚诺克市—一天前遇害记者的同事们于星期四早上带着满腔悲伤回到他们的工作单位。他们透过互相的依赖去获得心灵上的支持，但他们因不能确定外出采访是否安全而感动受威胁。与此同时，民主党的政治人物和遇害者的父亲指这次的枪击案显示出有加紧枪械管制法律的迫切需要。
“I have watched anchors and reporters half an hour before a newscast be crying in the newsroom and then get on that set and deliver the news,” said Kelly Zuber, news director of WDBJ television, on Thursday, a day after two of its journalists were gunned down. Alison Parker, a reporter, and Adam Ward, a cameraman, were shot Wednesday by a former reporter at the station, Vester Lee Flanagan II, who later took his own life.
记者艾莉森‧帕克（Alison Parker）和摄影师亚当‧沃德（Adam Ward）在星期三早上遭同为WDBJ电视台的一位前记者韦斯特‧李‧法拿冈（Vester Lee Flanagan）枪杀而身亡，法拿冈也跟着自尽而亡。 「我亲眼的看着主播和记者们在广播前半个小时在广播室中不停哭泣，然后坚持着到摄影机前面报导这则新闻，」WDBJ电视的新总监，凯莉‧珠芭（Kelly Zuber） ，在星期四，即是两位记者遭枪击遇害之后一天这样说。
“Our meteorologist this morning found a candy wrapper, while on the air, that Adam Ward had always eaten and had left somewhere, and it’s those kinds of little things that are getting to us now,” Ms. Zuber said at a news conference, flanked by dozens of station employees, many of them holding hands. “My sports director just said to me, ‘I lost it when I walked out and saw his car in the parking lot, and had clothes in it.’”
「我们的天气报导员在今天早上直播的时候找到一张糖果的包装纸，这是沃德经常吃的，他一定是吃了之后不知道在什么地方遗下这小纸；现在最让我们感到痛心就是看多这样的小事，」珠芭小姐在记者招待会上说。在这个招待会上，电视台的众多工作人员一直牵着手在她身边包围着她。她续道：「我的体育总监刚告诉我：『当我在停车场看到亚当车子的时候，里面还有亚当的衣服，我再也控制不住自己的情绪』。」
She said that “just as an abundance of caution,” the station did not send news teams into the field for live reports after the shooting on Wednesday, or on Thursday. “Law enforcement has actually reached out to us and said hey, if you’re doing a live shot, let us know, we’ll be there and we’ll help you,” Ms. Zuber said.
她说，为保持「足够的警戒」，电视台在枪击之后的星期三和星期四都并没有派出新闻队去进行现场采访。 「警察亦主动跟我们接触，告诉我们说，『如果你们要跑现场，请通知我们，我们会到场协助』，」珠芭小姐说。
Ms. Parker’s father, Andy Parker, made a series of emotional appeals for laws that would prevent mentally ill people from buying guns.
另一方面，受害人帕克小姐的父亲，安迪‧帕克（Andy Parker）则借着悲痛的心情提出一系列要求立法禁止精神病人购得枪械的诉求。
“I’m going to do something, whatever it takes, to get gun legislation, to shame people, to shame legislators into doing something about closing loopholes and background checks,” Mr. Parker said Wednesday night on Fox News. “This is not the last you’ve heard of me. This is something that is Alison’s legacy that I want to make happen.”
「我会采取行动，不管是什么也好，去取得更严格的枪械管制法。我要使他人感到羞愧，尤其是要让立法者感到羞愧，迫使他们去填补法律漏洞和制定适当的背景检查， 」帕克先生在星期三晚的霍士新闻上说，「这不会你最后一次听我说话。这是艾莉森留下来的遗志，而我会想办法完成它。」
Thursday morning, on CNN, he said, “I’m for the Second Amendment, but there has to be a way to force politicians who are cowards in the pockets of the N.R.A. to make sensible laws to make sure crazy people can’t get guns.”
星期四早上，在CNN新闻上，Parker先生又提到：「我很支持宪法第二修正案，但我也肯定这世界上一定有什么方法可以让那些在美国全国步枪协会收买了的懦夫政客去制定合理的法律防止疯子获得枪械。」
The National Rifle Association did not respond to requests for comment on Thursday.
直到星期四，美国全国步枪协会并没有作出任何回应。
Appearing with Mr. Parker on Fox, Chris Hurst, Ms. Parker’s boyfriend and a fellow reporter at WDBJ, spoke more indirectly, emphasizing that he had covered mental health issues and did not want society to react to the tragedy by deciding to “discriminate against everybody else who has a mental illness.”
帕克小姐的男朋友，亦是WDBJ电视台记者的基斯‧赫斯（Chris Hurst）先生，跟帕克先生一同出席霍士新闻时比较婉转地说，他自己也是有过精神健康方面的问题，现在已经康复，所以他不希望社会因为这次的悲剧而「歧视任何有精神病的人」。
“Clearly, something went wrong here between him leaving our station and being able to purchase a gun and commit a premeditated act,” Mr. Hurst said, speculating about Mr. Flanagan. Even before the shooting on Wednesday morning, he said “there had been ample time beforehand where many, many other things went wrong. Those need to be addressed.”
「明显地，从法拿冈离开我们电视台开始，然后又能购买得枪械并进行有预谋的凶案，这个过程间一定是出了什么大问题，」赫斯先生说。对法拿冈的情况作出推测，他认为在星期三早上发生枪击之前，「这段时间中一定有很多很多事情出了问题，这些问题都是我们需要正视和处理的」。
After the shooting, Gov. Terry McAuliffe, a Democrat, and Hillary Rodham Clinton joined President Obama in renewing their previous calls for new controls on gun purchases, like a more comprehensive background check system.
枪击案之后，民主党的泰利‧麦奥利菲（Terry McAuliffe）州长与希拉蕊一同跟总统奥巴马再次提倡要对枪械的买卖增加新的管制措施，其中包括更全面的背景检查系统。
But Republicans pushed back.
但共和党人对此作出抵制。
“It’s not the guns, it’s the people who are committing these crimes,” said Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Republican presidential contender, at a campaign stop in New Hampshire. “What law in the world could have prevented him from killing them?”
「这不是枪械的问题，这是一些人犯案的问题」，佛罗里达州参议员，同时也在竞逐共和党总统提名的马可‧卢比奥（Marco Rubio），在新罕布希尔州的竞选活动中说。 「世上有什么法律可以阻止他杀害受害人？」
Mr. Flanagan, 41, who went by the name Bryce Williams in recent years, had not been convicted of a crime or adjudicated mentally ill, so he apparently passed a background check in June, when he bought the Glock 19 handgun used in the killings. Federal officials said he bought it legally from a licensed dealer.
法拿冈先生，现年41岁，在近年间采用贝司‧威廉斯（Bryce Williams）这个名字，从没有被判犯下刑事罪行或者判定为精神病患。因此他在六月事通过背景检查，也够得用来犯案的格洛克（Glock） 19手枪。联邦政府人员说他是合法地从持有许可的商人中获得手枪的。
He was described at multiple former workplaces as difficult, combative, even threatening, yet none of that came to light when WDBJ, a CBS affiliate, looked into hiring him, said Jeffrey A. Marks, the station’s president and general manager.
多个他之前工作过的地方形容他为难以相处、好斗、甚至具威胁性，但隶属于哥伦比亚广播公司（CBS）的WDBJ电视台在聘用他的时候并不知道他这些问题，WDBJ总裁和总经历杰弗里‧马斯（Jeffrey A. Marks）说。
“Our H.R. team followed up on references, a variety of sources, and they all came back positive,” he said, referring to the human resources department. “It’s very hard to get a negative reference these days.”
「我们的人力资源团队从不同渠道覆核过他的经历，所得结果都是正面的，」他在解释人力资源部的工作时说，「现在的环境是很难得到负面的履历证明的。」
When asked what the station might have done differently, Mr. Marks said, “We can probably screen more,” but then backed away from that position, saying, “I don’t know the answer to that question, nor do I think I’m likely to come up with it in the first day after a disaster.”
当被问到电视台有什么可以做的时候，马斯先生说：「我们可以作出更多覆核」，但他又立刻退回来说：「我不知道要怎样回答这问题，我也不认为我在悲剧发生后的第一天能提供一个完满的答案」。
Mr. Flanagan worked for less than a year at WDBJ before being fired in February 2013. He filed a discrimination complaint and a lawsuit against the station, claiming that as a black man, he was discriminated against, and subjected to racist comments.
在2013年二月被解雇之时，法拿冈先生在WDBJ工作少于一年时间。之后他对电视台提出了受到歧视的投诉和诉讼，说他作为一个黑人，经常受到歧视性的对待，面对很多种族歧视性的言辞攻击。
“I am absolutely certain that nothing like that happened in this case, and that it was in the imagination, and perhaps in the preconception and the preplanned attitudes, of the fellow in this case,” Mr. Marks said.
马斯先生对这指控解释说：「我绝对肯定这些指控都是不存在的，它们只存在在行凶者的幻想中，或者寄生于他对现实的错误设想和偏执的态度中。」
Mr. Flanagan was disciplined “for failure to check his facts in a news story, and generally for poor news judgment,” Mr. Marks said. “Vester’s behavior annoyed a lot of people in the newsroom, not just photographers — producers, other reporters, anchors and managers.”
法拿冈曾经因为「没有检查新闻的真确性和对新闻的判断能力欠佳」而受到处分。马斯先生说：「他的行为让直播室众多人员感到不满，不只是摄影师，监制、其他记者、主播和经理都对他有意见。」
He confirmed, as was revealed in court papers, that Mr. Flanagan’s bosses ordered him to use the services of his workplace’s employee assistance program, because of “behavior, the anger, and the inability to work with his colleagues.” When asked if Mr. Flanagan got some kind of help at that time, Mr. Marks said, “He complied with what we asked him to do,” but did not elaborate.
他确认说，正如法庭文件显示一样，法拿冈先生因为「他的行为、愤怒和难以跟同事一同工作的关系」而遭上司命令他必须使用公司所提供的员工协助计划。当被问到法拿冈是否有取得协助的时候，马斯先生说：「他接受了我们的指示」，但他没有在提出更多的说明。
On WDBJ on Thursday morning, Kimberly McBroom, an anchor, said, “We come to you this morning with very heavy hearts,” before she and her colleagues observed a moment of silence for Mr. Ward and Ms. Parker.
星期四的早上，主播金伯利‧麦布安（Kimberly McBroom）在WDBJ直播中说：「我们今天早上带着沉重的心情向各位观众报导新闻，」之后她与其他同事一同为沃德先生和帕克小姐作出默哀。
The moment of silence came at 6:45 a.m., the time a day earlier when Ms. Parker and Mr. Ward were killed.
默哀的时刻是上午6点45分，是一天前帕克和沃德遭到杀害的时间。
Ms. McBroom joined hands with a weather forecaster, Leo Hirsbrunner, and an anchor, Steve Grant, who was from a sister station in Missouri. “Joining hands here on the desk,” Ms. McBroom said, her voice faltering at times. “It’s the only way to do it.”
麦布安跟天气报导员，李奥‧赫斯贝纳（Leo Hirsbrunner）和另一位来自密苏里州姊妹电视台的主播，史蒂夫‧格兰（Steve Grant）一同牵着手。 「在桌上牵着手，」 麦布安小姐带着时有颤抖的声音说道，「只有这样我们才能继续报导下去。」
She was also the anchor when the shootings occurred, while Ms. Parker and Mr. Ward were interviewing Vicki Gardner, a local Chamber of Commerce official during a live report. When the report was interrupted by the sounds of gunshots and screams, and jumbled images from the camera falling to the floor, the broadcast cut back to the stunned face of Ms. McBroom, who told viewers she was not sure what had just happened.
麦布安也是枪击事发时的主播，当时帕克小姐和沃德先生正在采访维基‧格得拿（Vicki Gardner），当地商会的工作人员，并在现场进行即时报导。当报导被枪声和尖叫声打断时，电视出现因摄影机掉在地上的混乱影像，广播转回麦布安惊呆了的脸孔，她告诉观众说她并不知道刚才是发生了什么回事。
“I thought maybe it was fireworks, or something that blew on his camera, or maybe someone was shooting far away,” she said in an interview on Thursday. “All those things were going through my mind — not this.”
「我当时想可能是有人在放烟火，或者有什么砸中了摄影机，又或者有人在很远的地方开枪，」她在一个访问中说，「这些都在我脑海中出现，但现在这场悲剧是我所想像不到的」。
“The longer we went without hearing from them, the more I worried something bad had happened to them,” she added.
「越是没有听到他们的消息，我就越是担心什么坏事降临在他们身上，」她补充说。
Ms. Gardner was wounded in the attack and had emergency surgery. Her husband, Tim Gardner, told CNN on Thursday morning that a bullet had grazed her spine. She was in good condition but was expected to have additional surgery, he said.
格得拿小姐在枪击中也受了伤，需要接受紧急手术。她的丈夫，添‧格得拿（Tim Gardner）在星期四早上告诉CNN说有一颗子弹擦过她的脊骨，她现在状况良好，但往后应需要进行多次手术。
Mr. Gardner said that he had watched the shooting as it happened — “I was rather surprised, stunned” — and was able to talk to his wife while on the way to the hospital. She told him she had been shot in the back, he said, but was able to walk to the ambulance.
格得拿先生说他看到整场枪击事件的经过--「我是完全的震呆了」--在妻子送院的过程中他持续与她保持对话。她告诉他说她的背部中了枪，但她依然能步行上救护车。
“My wife happened to be there at the wrong time,” he said.
「我的妻子出现在错误的时候」，他说。