A select group of 30 handpicked American and Chinese business executives meet with President Xi Jinping at his hotel in Seattle Wednesday morning for a fairly intimate round table discussion organized by the Paulson Institute.
周三上午，习近平在西雅图其下榻的酒店会见了经过精心挑选的30位中美商界高管。这场由保尔森基金会组织的圆桌会议气氛显得十分亲密。
The American participants include a stellar cast of chief executives, including: Mary T. Barra of General Motors, Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway, Timothy D. Cook of Apple, Robert A. Iger of the Walt Disney Company and Indra K. Nooyi of PepsiCo.
美方与会者堪称明星CEO阵容：通用汽车的玛丽·博拉(Mary T. Barra)、亚马逊的杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)、伯克希尔·哈撒韦的沃伦·巴菲特(Warren Buffett)、苹果的蒂姆·库克(Timothy D. Cook)、沃尔特·迪士尼的罗伯特·艾格(Robert A. Iger)、百事可乐公司的英德拉·努伊(Indra K. Nooyi)。
On the Chinese side: Jack Ma of Alibaba, Yang Yuanqing of Lenovo, Zhang Yaqin of Baidu and Tian Guoli of Bank of China.
来自中国的主要有阿里巴巴董事局主席马云、联想集团CEO杨元庆、百度总裁张亚勤和中国银行董事长田国立。
The Americans have different stories to tell. Mr. Cook of Apple can brag about sales of iPhones in China now exceeding those in the United States. In contrast, Ms. Barra of G.M. is not happy about the slide in China’s car market and the 4.8 percent decline in sales in August compared to the same period a year earlier.
美国的企业领袖有不同的诉求。库克可以夸耀iPhone在中国的销量如今已经超过美国本土，但博拉却对中国汽车市场的萎缩心怀忧虑，通用汽车今年8月的销量与去年同期相比下跌了4.8%。
Three of the Americans – Mr. Iger representing entertainment; Virginia M. Rometty, chief executive of IBM, from tech; and Andrew N. Liveris of the Dow Chemical Company – have been asked to address Mr. Xi.
美方选择了三名代表面对习近平发表讲话，其中艾格（迪士尼）代表娱乐产业，罗睿兰（Virginia M. Rometty，微软总裁）代表科技产业，以及陶氏化工的CEO利伟诚(Andrew N. Liveris) 。
Disney is on a definite upswing in China. After a 20-year courtship of the government, the company opened its first Disney Store in May in the Pudong district of Shanghai, and its first theme park, a $5.5 billion Disneyland, is scheduled to open in Shanghai next spring.
迪士尼目前在中国正处在上升期，在向中国政府示好了20年之后，今年5月他们终于在上海浦东开设了第一家迪士尼商店。而在明年春天，投资55亿美元兴建的中国首座迪士尼乐园也将开幕。
Like all movie companies, Disney would like the economics on box office grosses changed. Hollywood gets a 25 percent cut on most movies that open in China, compared to 50 percent elsewhere.
而与所有电影公司一样，迪士尼希望中国的票房分成制度有所改变。按照目前的协议，好莱坞制片方在中国市场可以获得25%的票房收入，而在其他地方这个比例是50%。