In one of the more surprising announcements during his visit to the United States, President Xi Jinping of China announced on Monday during his speech to the United Nations General Assembly that his country would offer more money and more troops to aid United Nations peacekeeping efforts.
本周一，习近平在联合国大会发表讲话时宣布，中国将为联合国的维和行动提供更多的资金和人员支持。这是他访美期间较为出人意料的一项表态。
China, he said, planned to set up a United Nations permanent peacekeeping force of 8,000 troops and would provide $100 million to the African Union to create an immediate response unit capable of responding to emergencies.
习近平说，中国计划建立一支8000人的联合国维和常备部队，并为非洲联盟(African Union)提供1亿美元资金，以建立危机应对快速反应部队。
In addition to the peacekeeping pledge, Mr. Xi promised a $1 billion donation to the United Nations for a “peace and development fund.”
在维和之外，习近平还承诺向联合国的一个“和平与发展基金”捐赠10亿美元。
All this amounted to an effort to respond to calls from the United States and others in the West that as the world’s second largest economy, China needed to shoulder more responsibilities at the United Nations.
美国等西方国家一直呼吁，作为世界第二大经济体，中国需要在联合国承担更多责任，而习近平的这些承诺，就是中国对此做出的回应。
Mr. Xi appearance at the United Nations was his first since he assumed power in 2012. He seemed anxious to make a splash and show that China would rise to the occasion. Next year, China will assume the leadership of the G-20, the group of the world’s 20 major economies.
这是习近平自2012年上台以来，第一次在联合国亮相。他似乎急于引发关注，展示中国自如应对局面的能力。明年，中国将成为由全球20个主要经济体组成的20国集团的轮值主席国。
China has always been proud of its contributions to United Nations peacekeeping operations. Of the four other world powers on the Security Council, China has deployed the most troops to peacekeeping operations.
中国为联合国维和行动作出的贡献，一直令该国自豪。在安理会其他四个大国中，中国是部署维和部队最多的国家。
Yet, the number of Chinese forces is small when compared with other big contributing countries like Bangladesh and Pakistan, given China’s large defense budget.
然而，鉴于中国有庞大的国防预算，与孟加拉和巴基斯坦等其他维和部队贡献大国相比，中国派出的人员就显得比较少了。
At a special summit on peacekeeping convened by President Obama on Monday afternoon, Mr. Xi said China would supplement the big-ticket items he had outlined earlier in the day with a helicopter squad for peacekeeping operations in Africa. China, he added, would also train 2,000 peacekeepers from other countries over the next five years.
周一下午，奥巴马总统召开了一个以维和为主题的特别峰会。习近平在会上表示，除了当天早些时候列出的那些重磅援助之外，中国还将派遣一支直升机分队，参加在非洲的维和行动。他还宣布，中国将在未来五年里培训2000名其他国家的维和人员。
China’s decision to commit 8,000 police officers was a significant contribution, said Bruce Jones, vice president for foreign policy at the Brookings Institution and an expert on peacekeeping.
布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)负责外交政策的副会长、维和专家布鲁斯·琼斯(Bruce Jones)表示，中国提供8000名维和警员的决定是一项重大贡献。
“Police is one of the most glaring gaps in the United Nations peacekeeping operations,” he said. “This is an important step in creating a dedicated reserve capacity.”
“警力是联合国维和行动中缺口最大的地方，”他说。“这是创建专门储备力量的重要一步。”
In April, as a precursor to Mr. Xi’s announcement, China dispatched an infantry battalion of 700 soldiers to South Sudan to protect civilians, United Nations employees and humanitarian workers as part of the peacekeeping force there.
在习近平本次在纽约的表态之前，今年4月，中国向南苏丹派出了一个步兵营的700名军人，作为当地维和部队的组成部分，负责保护平民、联合国雇员，以及人道主义工作者。
China is the biggest investor in South Sudan’s oil fields, where production has slowed because of the fighting.
中国是南苏丹油田最大的投资者，而战事导致那里的石油生产放缓。
Together with the United States, China has tried to play a mediating role in that conflict, and Mr. Xi told the heads of state at the General Assembly that peacekeeping alone would not solve Africa’s wars.
中国试图与美国一道，在苏丹冲突中发挥调解作用。习近平告诉出席联合国大会的各国领导人，单纯依靠维和行动并不能解决非洲的战争问题。