THE recent erratic behavior of Shia LaBeouf, the 27-year-old actor best known as the star of the “Transformers” movies, has sent the press into a feeding frenzy. Though the wisdom of some of his actions may seem questionable, as an actor and artist I’m inclined to take an empathetic view of his conduct.
希亚·拉博夫(Shia LaBeouf)最近反复无常的举止给媒体提供了狂欢素材，让他们狂欢不已。这位27岁的演员因为主演了《变形金刚》(Transformers)而被人们熟悉。尽管他的一些行为可能不那么明智，作为演员和艺术家，我还是想对他的行为发表点感同身受的看法。
Let’s review the facts. First, in December, Mr. LaBeouf was accused of plagiarism after critics noted similarities between “Howard Cantour.com,” a short film he created, and a story by the graphic novelist Daniel Clowes. Though Mr. LaBeouf apologized on Twitter, conceding that he had “neglected to follow proper accreditation,” it turned out that the apology itself appropriated someone else’s writing. Was that clever or pathological?
先来回顾一下事实。12月，拉博夫执导的电影短片《Howard Cantour.com》被控剽窃绘本小说家丹尼尔·克劳斯(Daniel Clowes)的小说。拉博夫在Twitter上道了歉，承认自己“忽视了适当的鉴别”，但这个道歉本身就是别人代写的。这种做法是太聪明了还是有毛病？
Then, earlier this month, with these actions focusing the tabloid gaze on him, he wore a paper bag over his head that read “I am not famous anymore” at the red-carpet premiere of his latest movie, “Nymphomaniac.” And last week he staged an art show called “#IAmSorry” that involved having him sit opposite visitors to a Los Angeles gallery while he wore a similar bag over his head and stared at them through cutout eye holes.
后来，也就是这个月的月初，在他最新参演的电影《性瘾者》(Nymphomaniac)首映式的红毯走秀上，在小报狗仔们众目睽睽之下，他头顶一个纸袋，上面写着“我不再是名人了”。上个星期，他又推出一个艺术表演，名叫《#我错了》(#IAmSorry)，地点是在洛杉矶一个画廊里，他还是头顶那个纸袋坐在那里，双眼通过纸袋上剪出的两个孔凝视对面的参观者。
This behavior could be a sign of many things, from a nervous breakdown to mere youthful recklessness. For Mr. LaBeouf’s sake I hope it is nothing serious. Indeed I hope — and, yes, I know that this idea has pretentious or just plain ridiculous overtones — that his actions are intended as a piece of performance art, one in which a young man in a very public profession tries to reclaim his public persona.
这种行为可以说明很多东西，可能是精神崩溃，也可能是年轻人的鲁莽。我希望这对于拉博夫个人来说算不上什么严重的大事。事实上我希望——是的，我知道我的想法有点虚伪，或者只是可笑的暗示——我希望他制造的这些新闻只是一种表演艺术，只是一个从事面对公众职业的年轻人在试图重塑自己的公众形象。
Actors have been lashing out against their profession and its grip on their public images since at least Marlon Brando. Brando’s performances revolutionized American acting precisely because he didn’t seem to be “performing,” in the sense that he wasn’t putting something on as much as he was being. Off-screen he defied the studio system’s control over his image, allowing his weight to fluctuate, choosing roles that were considered beneath him and turning down the Oscar for best actor in 1973. These were acts of rebellion against an industry that practically forces an actor to identify with his persona while at the same time repeatedly wresting it from him.
至少是从马龙·白兰度(Marlon Brando)的年代以来，演员就会因为他们的职业遭到抨击，他们的公众形象也格外受到关注。白兰度的表演重新定义了美国演员的表演方式，因为他仿佛完全不是在“表演”，仿佛他并没有丝毫伪装，他本身就是那个样子。在银幕之下，他公然反抗制片公司体制干涉自己的公众形象，他放任自己的体重剧烈波动，刻意选择那些人们认为配不上他的角色，1973年又拒领奥斯卡最佳男主角奖。事实上，这些反抗行业的叛逆行为逼迫他一方面把自己和自己所塑造的人格等同起来，与此同时又要不断与这个人格做斗争。
At times I have felt the need to dissociate myself from my work and public image. In 2009, when I joined the soap opera “General Hospital” at the same time as I was working on films that would receive Oscar nominations and other critical acclaim, my decision was in part an effort to jar expectations of what a film actor does and to undermine the tacit — or not so tacit — hierarchy of entertainment.
有时候我也觉得需要把“自我”和工作，乃至公众形象区分开来。2009年，我出演了肥皂剧《综合医院》(General Hospital)，同时又在拍电影，那些电影后来获得了奥斯卡提名，也获得评论界的好评。我的这个决定部分是为了打破人们对电影演员的期待，打乱娱乐业内心照不宣或是显而易见的等级制度。
As an actor, you are often in the uncomfortable position of being the most visible part of a project while having the least amount of say over its final form. In one of the most striking scenes in “I’m Still Here,” a 2010 film co-written by Joaquin Phoenix that purported to document his life as he retired from acting and became a hip-hop artist, Mr. Phoenix paced around his yard at night, ranting about the submissiveness of being an actor. Even if the conceit was ultimately a joke (and initially it wasn’t clear that it was, for Mr. Phoenix stayed in character in public throughout the filming), the movie was nonetheless earnest about an actor’s need to take back a little bit of power over his image by making such a film.
作为演员，你是影片中最鲜明可见的部分，但是对影片的最终成果其实没多少发言权，这常常会让你处在尴尬的位置。2010年的电影《我仍在这里》(I’m Still Here)是一部伪装成纪录片的电影，记录了杰昆·菲尼克斯(Joaquin Phoenix)退出影坛，成为一个嘻哈乐手的生活，菲尼克斯本人也参与了编剧，其中有一幕格外精彩：一个晚上，菲尼克斯在自家院子里踱步，大声抱怨当演员就得逆来顺受。就算这个构思只是开玩笑（一开始人们看不出是不是玩笑，整个拍摄期间，菲尼克斯的公众形象和影片中保持着一致），但这部影片无疑真诚地反映出，演员需要收回一点对自己形象的控制权。
Any artist, regardless of his field, can experience distance between his true self and his public persona. But because film actors typically experience fame in greater measure, our personas can feel at the mercy of forces far beyond our control. Our rebellion against the hand that feeds us can instigate a frenzy of commentary that sets in motion a feedback loop: acting out, followed by negative publicity, followed by acting out in response to that publicity, followed by more publicity, and so on.
任何领域内的艺术家都能感受到自己的真实自我和公众形象之间存在距离。但电影演员尤其能感受到名声带来的压力更大，我们的公众形象有时候会受到各种外力摆布，我们对此毫无办法。如果我们反抗衣食父母，可能会激起一大堆疯狂的评论，导致一个活跃的循环：我们做出过分的举动、导致负面的曝光、接着又是对负面曝光的回应，接着又是另一轮曝光，诸如此类。
Participating in this call and response is a kind of critique, a way to show up the media by allowing their oversize responses to essentially trivial actions to reveal the emptiness of their raison d’être. Believe me, this game of peek-a-boo can be very addictive.
参与这样的互动本身也是一种批判，可以向世人显示出：媒体的种种小题大做其实暴露出他们的空虚本质。相信我，这种逗小孩的躲猫猫游戏还挺让人上瘾的。
Mr. LaBeouf has been acting since he was a child, and often an actor’s need to tear down the public creation that constrains him occurs during the transition from young man to adult. I think Mr. LaBeouf’s project, if it is a project, is a worthy one. I just hope that he is careful not to use up all the good will he has gained as an actor in order to show us that he is an artist.
拉博夫从小就开始当演员了，通常，一个演员在从青年向成年人过渡期间，都需要摧毁限制自己发展的旧公众形象。我想拉博夫的这个项目（如果这是一个项目的话）是很值得的。我只希望他能谨慎一点，不要为了向我们表明他是一个艺术家，就耗尽在做演员期间积累起来的所有美好意愿。