There’s been a lot of tut-tutting about the people who are overreacting to the Ebola virus. There was the lady who showed up at the airport in a homemade hazmat suit. There were the hundreds of parents in Mississippi who pulled their kids from school because the principal had traveled to Zambia, a country in southern Africa untouched by the Ebola outbreak in the western region of the continent. There was the school district in Ohio that closed a middle school and an elementary school because an employee might have flown on the same plane (not even the same flight) as an Ebola-infected health care worker.
许多人对埃博拉病毒做出的反应太大了，不禁让人啧啧称奇。有一位女士身穿自制的防化服来到机场。密西西比州有数百名父母因为校长曾去过赞比亚旅行，把孩子从校园里拽了出来——位于非洲南部的赞比亚，并没有受到非洲西部爆发的埃博拉疫情影响。俄亥俄州一个学区关闭了一所中学和一所小学，原因是一名员工可能乘坐了感染埃博拉的一名医疗人员乘坐过的飞机（甚至都不是同一个航班）。
The critics point out that these people are behaving hysterically, all out of proportion to the scientific risks, which, of course, is true. But the critics misunderstand what’s going on here. Fear isn’t only a function of risk; it’s a function of isolation. We live in a society almost perfectly suited for contagions of hysteria and overreaction.
批评人士指出，这些人的反应太夸张了，远远到了与科学预测的风险不相称的地步。这当然是真的，不过批评人士误解了真实发生的情况。恐惧并不是因为风险产生的，而是因为孤立和隔离而产生的。我们生活的社会十分适合神经紧张、反应过当的情况蔓延。
In the first place, we’re living in a segmented society. Over the past few decades we’ve seen a pervasive increase in the gaps between different social classes. People are much less likely to marry across social class, or to join a club and befriend people across social class.
首先，我们生活在一个层级分明的社会。在过去几十年里，我们见到不同社会阶层之间的鸿沟，普遍出现了加深。人们与来自不同社会阶层的人结婚的情形，加入某个俱乐部结识不同阶层的人的情形，都大大减少了。
That means there are many more people who feel completely alienated from the leadership class of this country, whether it’s the political, cultural or scientific leadership. They don’t know people in authority. They perceive a vast status gap between themselves and people in authority. They may harbor feelings of intellectual inferiority toward people in authority. It becomes easy to wave away the whole lot of them, and that distrust isolates them further. “What loneliness is more lonely than distrust,” George Eliot writes in “Middlemarch.”
这意味着有远远更多的人感到，与这个国家的领导阶层彻底地疏离了，无论是政治上、文化上还是科学上的领导阶层。他们不了解那些拥有权威的人。他们感受到，自己的地位与拥有权威的人之间，有着巨大的鸿沟。面对拥有权威的人，他们可能还怀有一种智力上的自卑感。很容易就能否定所有这些人，而这种不信任又会进一步孤立他们。乔治·艾略特(George Eliot)在《米德尔马契》(Middlemarch)中写道，“有什么孤独比不信任更孤独。”
So you get the rise of the anti-vaccine parents, who simply distrust the cloud of experts telling them that vaccines are safe for their children. You get the rise of the anti-science folks, who distrust the realm of far-off studies and prefer anecdotes from friends to data about populations. You get more and more people who simply do not believe what the establishment is telling them about the Ebola virus, especially since the establishment doesn’t seem particularly competent anyway.
于是，反对接种疫苗的父母增多了，一大群专家告诉他们，疫苗对孩子是安全的，但是他们就是不信任那些专家。反科学的人群也增多了，他们不信任遥远的研究领域，宁愿相信朋友们口耳相传的轶事，也不肯相信关于人口的数据。越来越多的人完全不相信体制告诉他们的，关于埃博拉病毒的信息，毕竟体制本身也并没有显得特别有能力。
Second, you’ve got a large group of people who are bone-deep suspicious of globalization, what it does to their jobs and their communities. Along comes Ebola, which is the perfect biological embodiment of what many fear about globalization. It is a dark insidious force from a mysterious place far away that seems to be able to spread uncontrollably and get into the intimate spheres of life back home.
第二，还有很大一群人从骨子里对全球化充满怀疑，对全球化给他们的工作和社区造成的影响心存不满。而此时埃博拉出现了，它是许多人对全球化恐惧的一个完美生物化身。它是一种黑暗歹毒的力量，来自遥远神秘的地方，似乎能够不受控制地蔓延，潜入家中私密的空间。
Third, you’ve got the culture of instant news. It’s a weird phenomenon of the media age that, except in extreme circumstances, it is a lot scarier to follow an event on TV than it is to actually be there covering it. When you’re watching on TV, you only see the death and mayhem. But when you’re actually there, you see the broader context of everyday life going on alongside. Studies of the Boston Marathon bombing found that people who consumed a lot of news media during the first week suffered more stress than people who were actually there.
第三，我们有了一种立即掌握消息的文化。这是一种媒体时代的诡异现象，除了在极端环境下，在电视上关注事件，都会比实际上在现场报道更吓人。如果你是在看电视，就只能看到死亡和慌乱，但如果你实际上在现场，还能看到日常生活并行不悖的更大的背景。对波士顿马拉松赛爆炸事件的研究发现，爆炸发生的第一周内关注大量新闻报道的人所承受的压力，比当时在场的人还大。
Fourth, you’ve got our culture’s tendency to distance itself from death. Philip Roth once wrote: “In every calm and reasonable person there is a hidden second person scared witless about death.” In cultures where death is more present, or at least dealt with more commonly, people are more familiar with that second person, and people can think a bit more clearly about risks of death in any given moment.
第四，我们的文化也倾向于跟死亡保持距离。菲利普·罗斯(Philip Roth)曾经写道：“每一个冷静而理性的人内心里，都隐藏着另一个异常忌惮死亡的人。”在死亡更为普遍的文化里，至少在接触死亡更为常见的文化里，人们对于那“另一个人”就更加熟悉，在任何一个时刻，人们也都能更清晰地考虑死亡的风险。
In cultures where people deal with death by simply getting it out of their minds, the prospect of sudden savage death, even if extremely unlikely, can arouse a mental fog of fear, and an unmoored and utopian desire to want to reduce the risk of early death to zero, all other considerations be damned.
在以抛诸脑后来对待死亡的文化中，突然横死的可能性，即使极为罕见，也会在人们头脑中产生一团恐惧的迷雾，以及一种乌托邦一般毫无根据的愿望，希望把过早死亡的风险降低为零。除此之外，所有其他的想法都无关紧要。
Given all these conditions, you wind up with an emotional spiral that develops its own momentum.
鉴于上述所有情况，我们就产生了一种不断恶化，进而产生了可以自行增强的情绪漩涡。
The Ebola crisis has aroused its own flavor of fear. It’s not the heart-pounding fear you might feel if you were running away from a bear or some distinct threat. It’s a sour, existential fear. It’s a fear you feel when the whole environment seems hostile, when the things that are supposed to keep you safe, like national borders and national authorities, seem porous and ineffective, when some menace is hard to understand.
埃博拉危机激起的恐惧有其特色。它不是奔跑着躲避熊，或其他明确威胁时，那种心脏狂跳的恐惧。它是一种阴沉的、关涉生死的恐惧。它是整个环境都显得充满敌意的恐惧；是本来应该保护你的安全的机制，如国界、国家机关，显得漏洞百出、效果不佳时所产生的恐惧；是面临着某种难以理解的威胁时产生的恐惧。