In a professional world dominated by middle-aged men, Haruko Obokata stood out. Ms. Obokata, 31, led a research unit for cellular programming at the Riken Center for Developmental Biology. In January she stunned Japan’s academic establishment when the British journal Nature published two papers, of which she was the lead author, that suggested a leap forward in regenerative medicine.
在一个由中年男性主导的专业领域，小保方晴子(Haruko Obokata)格外引人注目。现年31岁的小保方在理化学研究所发展生物学中心(RIKEN Center for Developmental Biology)担任一个细胞编程研究组的负责人。今年1月，小保方震惊了日本学术界：她作为第一作者在英国《自然》(Nature)杂志上发表的两篇论文，暗示了再生医学研究中一个重大飞跃。
Japan’s news media hailed Ms. Obokata, a former researcher at Harvard Medical School, as an academic star, but the adulation was short-lived. In February, Riken, a network of research institutions receiving roughly $1 billion a year from the government, set up an investigative panel after being notified of problems in the Nature papers. Three months later the panel publicly shamed Ms. Obokata, accusing her of fabricating data, doctoring images, and plagiarism.
日本的新闻媒体一度把曾在哈佛医学院(Harvard Medical School)担任研究员的小保方盛赞为学术明星，但她释放出的耀眼光芒最终只是昙花一现。2月，在得知《自然》杂志上的这两篇文章存在问题之后，理研所成立了一个调查小组。理研所是一个研究所网络，每年从政府获得大约10亿美元。三个月后，调查小组公开了让小保方蒙羞的结论，指责她捏造数据、篡改图像和剽窃。
Ms. Obokata’s actions “lead us to the conclusion that she sorely lacks, not only a sense of research ethics, but also integrity and humility as a scientific researcher,” a damning report by the panel concluded. The release of the report sent Ms. Obokata, who admits mistakes but not ill intent, to the hospital in shock for a week. Riken has dismissed all her appeals, clearing the way for disciplinary action, which she has pledged to fight. On June 4 the embattled researcher agreed to retract both Nature papers — under duress, according to her lawyer. On July 2, Nature released a statement from her and the other authors officially retracting the papers.
确认了罪行的研究小组报告称，鉴于小保方的行为，“我们认为她不仅严重缺乏科研道德，同时还缺乏一名科研人员应有的诚实和谦逊”。报告发布后，小保方因受打击住了一个星期的院。她承认犯有一些错误，但说自己并无不良动机。理研所驳回了她的所有申诉，为纪律处分扫清了障碍，而小保方声称将进行抗争。她的律师说，6月4日，这位陷入争议的科学家同意撤回《自然》杂志上的两篇论文——在胁迫之下。7月2日，《自然》杂志发布了小保方和其他作者宣布正式撤回这两篇论文的声明。
The shockwaves from Ms. Obokata’s rise and vertiginous fall continue to reverberate. Japan’s top universities are rushing to install anti-plagiarism software and are combing through old doctoral theses amid allegations that they are honeycombed with similar problems.
小保方急速蹿升却又突然坠落的职业生涯仍在引发强烈反响，由于被指存在诸多类似问题，日本的一些顶尖学府正抓紧安装反剽窃软件，并审阅以往的博士论文。
The affair has sucked in some of Japan’s most revered professors, including two Nobel laureates: Riken’s president, Ryoji Noyori, and Shinya Yamanaka, a professor at Kyoto University. Mr. Yamanaka, who is credited with the creation of induced pluripotent stem cells, in April denied claims that he too had manipulated images in a 2000 research paper on embryonic mouse stem cells, but he was forced to admit that, like Ms. Obokata, he could not find lab notes to support his denial.
这一事件还牵涉了一些日本最受尊敬的教授，包括两位诺贝尔奖得主：理研所所长野依良治(Ryoji Noyori)和京都大学(Kyoto University)教授山中伸弥(Shinya Yamanaka)。山中的成就是制作出了人工多能干细胞。4月，山中否认了他在2000年的一篇关于小鼠胚胎干细胞的研究论文中伪造图像的说法，但他不得不承认，就像小保方一样，他找不到实验室笔记来支持自己的反驳。
The scandal has prompted questions about the quality of science in a country that still punches below its international weight in cutting-edge research. Critics say Japan’s best universities have churned out hundreds of poor-quality Ph.D.s. Young researchers are not taught how to keep detailed lab notes, properly cite data, or question assumptions, said Sukeyasu Yamamoto, a former physicist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and now an adviser to Riken. “The problems we see in this episode are all too common,” Mr. Yamamoto said.
这桩丑闻还引发了关于日本科研质量的疑问。在前沿科技的研究方面，日本的表现仍然没有达到应有水平。批评人士说，日本最好的大学粗制滥造出了成百上千的低质量博士。年轻的科研人员没有学过如何详细地记录实验室笔记、恰当地援引数据，或是对假设提出质疑，理研所顾问山本佑康(Sukeyasu Yamamoto)说。山本曾是马萨诸塞大学安默斯特分校(University of Massachusetts, Amherst)的物理学者。他说，“我们在这起事件中发现的问题太具普遍性了。”
Ironically, Riken was known as a positive discriminator in a country where just one in seven university researchers is a woman — the lowest proportion in the developed world. The organization was striving to push young women into positions of responsibility, say other professors there. “The flip side is that they overreacted and maybe went a little too fast,” said Kathleen S. Rockland, a neurobiologist who once worked at Riken’s Brain Science Institute. “That’s a pity because they were doing a very good job.”
在日本，只有七分之一的高校研究人员是女性，这个比例是发达国家中最低的。讽刺的是，理研所以为弱势群体提供优惠待遇而出名。理研所的另外一些教授说，该机构正努力让更多年轻女性担任要职。“这种做法的不良后果是，他们反应过度了，而且可能有点操之过急，”曾在理研脑科学研究所工作的神经生物学家凯瑟琳·S·罗克兰(Kathleen S. Rockland)说。“这很令人遗憾，因为他们本来做得很好。”
Many professors, however, accuse the institute of hanging Ms. Obokata out to dry since the problems in her papers were exposed. Riken was under intense pressure to justify its budget with high-profile results. Japan’s news media have focused on the role of Yoshiki Sasai, deputy director of the Riken Center and Ms. Obokata’s supervisor, who initially promoted her, then insisted he had no knowledge of the details of her research after the problems were exposed.
然而，许多教授指责称，在小保方的论文爆出问题后，理研所与她划清了界限。该机构面临着极大的压力，需要用高调的学术成果来证明其预算的合理性。日本的新闻媒体集中报道了笹井芳树(Yoshiki Sasai)所扮演的角色。笹井是理研所副所长，也是小保方的上司。笹井最初曾大力支持小保方，但在爆出问题后又坚称，自己对小保方的研究细节并无了解。
Critics have noted that even the head of the inquiry into Ms. Obokata’s alleged misconduct, Shunsuke Ishii, was forced to admit in April that he had posted “problematic” images in a 2007 paper published in the journal Oncogene. Mr. Ishii, a molecular geneticist, subsequently resigned from the investigative committee.
批评人士指出，即使是小保方不当行为的调查负责人石井俊介(Shunsuke Ishii)，在4月也被迫承认，自己2007年发表在《癌基因》(Oncogene)上的一篇论文中的图片“存在问题”。这位分子遗传学家因此辞去了在调查委员会的职务。
Acknowledging flaws in the entire supervising process would prompt firings and possible government budget cuts, which is why Riken has circled the wagons and heaped blame on Ms. Obokata, said Thomas Knöpfel, a founder of Riken’s Brain Science Institute and now a leading neuroscientist at Imperial College London. “It appears to me that Riken is more concerned about damage control and blame shifting” than about clarification, he said.
理研脑科学研究所创始人、现任伦敦帝国理工学院(Imperial College London)首席神经科学家托马斯·科诺菲尔(Thomas Knöpfel)说，承认整个监督流程中存在错误，会致使有人被开除，政府可能还会削减预算，这就是为什么理研所统一口径，把责难都指向小保方晴子。他说，与澄清事实相比，“在我看来理研更关心止损和推卸责任。”
Mr. Knöpfel in part blamed the Obokata affair on a push by Riken to publish in high-impact journals rather than to focus on generating good science. “My observation was that Riken is driven by individual egos and interests beyond the healthy competition required for attaining a high scientific and ethical standard,” he commented.
科诺菲尔认为，小保方事件一定程度上要归咎于理研的怂恿，他们更希望在影响力大的期刊上发表文章，而不是专注于出产优秀的科学成果。“据我的观察，理研更多地是受到个人野心和利益的驱使，而不是实现科学和伦理高标准所需要的良性竞争，”他评论道。
For its part, Riken has said that it plans a thorough review of its procedures and personnel.
理研方面则表示计划对其程序和人员进行一次彻底的评估。
“Those who were not found to have been involved in research misconduct still bear a heavy responsibility for their administrative negligence, which allowed the research misconduct to occur,” it said in a statement. “These individuals will also be subjected to disciplinary measures.”
“那些没有涉嫌学术不端的人，也一样因为管理不作为而负有重大责任，他们坐视学术不端的发生，”一份声明中说。“这些个人同样受到惩戒措施的约束。”