Five designers discuss their work on recent book covers: first concepts that didn’t make the final cut, and then the cover as published (and in this installment, one cover that was accepted on the first try).
五位设计师谈论他们最近的图书封面设计：首先展示的没有通过最终审核的版本，然后展示最终出版的封面（其中有个封面是第一个版本就被接受了）。
1. Eric White on the design for Andy Weir’s novel “The Martian” (Crown):
1. 埃里克·怀特(Eric White)谈论自己为安迪·韦尔(Andy Weir)的小说《火星人》（The Martian，皇冠出版社）设计封面的过程：
“The goal was to create the feeling of being stuck in a sandstorm on Mars. This early sketch was close but felt static.”
“我们的目标是传递一种被困在火星沙尘暴中的感觉。这个早期的素描接近那种感觉，但是没有动感。”
2. “We combined a NASA astronaut with images of desert sandstorms for the final cover.”
2. “我们把美国国家航空航天局的宇航员与沙漠沙尘暴的情景结合在一起，做成了最终的封面。”
3. Jamie Keenan on the design for a new edition of Franz Kafka’s “The Metamorphosis” (W. W. Norton & Company):
3. 杰米·基南(Jamie Keenan)谈论自己为新版弗兰兹·卡夫卡(Franz Kafka)《变形记》（The Metamorphosis，WW诺顿出版公司）设计封面时的情形：
“As soon I got this job, I knew I wanted to create an image out of the title and get across that shiny black quality that beetles have. A combination of a nice, old, ornate typeface and a set of legs from a stag beetle conveyed the right feel and, incredibly, the very first comp is pretty much what appears on the final cover (this has never happened to me before and will probably never happen again).”
“我一拿到这个工作，就知道我想从书名中创造一个形象，表现出甲虫的那种闪亮、黑色的质感。把美观、古老的装饰字体与锹甲虫的腿结合在一起，正好能传递出那种感觉。难以置信的是，第一个设计图就基本上是最终封面的样子（这种情况之前从未发生在我身上，以后很可能也不会再发生）。”
4. Adly Elewa on the design for Jeff VanderMeer’s novel “Annihilation”:
4. 阿兹利·埃尔娃(Adly Elewa)谈论自己为杰夫·万德米尔(Jeff VanderMeer)的小说《灭绝》(Annihilation)设计封面时的情形：
“I started my process by collecting images. The real star of this book is the enigmatic, edenic zone the protagonist explores for answers. So I looked for images that hinted at landscapes, solitude, psychedelia, and futurism. 
“我先是收集图片。这本书真正的亮点是那个神秘的、伊甸园式的区域，主人公在其中探索以寻找答案。所以我寻找那些能暗示那里的风景、隔绝、虚幻和未来主义的图片。”
“The plot/vibe reminded me of the movie ‘Stalker.’ There is one scene in particular that felt really appropriate. I also wanted to capture the vibe of Joy Division’s ‘Unknown Pleasures’ album cover by Peter Saville and some of the disorienting and lush textile patterns created by Sarah Richards.”
“书中的情节/氛围让我想起了电影《潜行者》(Stalker)。其中有个场景感觉特别合适。我还想表现出彼得·萨维尔(Peter Saville)设计的Joy Division乐队的《Unknown Pleasures》专辑的封面的氛围，以及莎拉·理查兹(Sarah Richards)创作的一些让人迷惑的、奢华的纺织品图案的感觉。”
5. “The boar image was created to salvage some of the elements I liked about the landscapes while incorporating a representation of the possessed wildlife found throughout the novel. Ultimately, it was found to be too off-putting and gross.”
5. “这个野猪是为了表现那些风景中我喜欢的一些元素，同时融入贯穿小说始终的一些疯狂的野生动物。最后，我们觉得它太令人不快、太粗野。”
6. Charlotte Strick on the following stages of the design process for “Annihilation”:
6. 夏洛特·斯特里克(Charlotte Strick)谈论《灭绝》设计过程中后几个阶段的情形：
7. “After lots of discussion about why the landscape was too dense, too bucolic and generally lacking in environmental menace, I plucked a single threatening spider orchid and dragonfly from Eric’s drawing and paired it with an early type sketch of the title I had doodled where the letters were stacked 3 by 4. The heavy black Rockwell letters have been customized to account for the irregular letter-spacing on each line. I hope they also subtly suggest the unsettling transformation of the landscape and the people who are sent there to make sense of it.”
7. “我们讨论了很久，觉得那幅风景画太密集，太田园，总的来说缺乏环境威胁，然后我从埃里克的画中选了一株有威慑力的蜘蛛兰和一只蜻蜓，把它们和我最初涂鸦的一个标题草图结合起来，那个标题中的字母被排成四行，每行三个。我们把厚重的黑色洛克威尔字体进行个性化处理，以适应每一行不规则的字母间距。我希望它们也能微妙地暗示环境令人不安的变化以及那些被派到那里去搞清情况的人。”
8. Keith Hayes on the design for Rachel Urquhart’s “The Visionist”:
8. 基思·海耶斯(Keith Hayes)谈起自己为雷切尔·厄克特(Rachel Urquhart)的《The Visionist》设计封面时的情形：
“The novel is set in the mid-19th century and revolves around a New England Shaker community. The request was to make this evident in the design. I was hoping the chair would be enough to indicate that the story was about the Shakers, but a human element was still desired.”
“那部小说的背景是19世纪中期，围绕着新英格兰的一个震颤派社区。要求是设计中要明显地体现这一点。我本来希望这把椅子就足以表明这个故事是关于震颤派的，但是他们还想要一点人的元素。”
9. “I found a photograph of a female Shaker, and the image was well received. Still, it looked slightly like a nonfiction title. A few of the comments questioned whether or not it appeared biographical.”
9. “我找到了一张震颤派女教徒的照片，这个形象得到了认可。但是它看起来有点像非虚构类图书。有些评论质疑它是否看起来像传记。”
10. “I decided to make the woman less a focal point by receding her behind the cloudy acetate. The gold foil is a graphic representation of a symbol found in the Shaker community called the Tree of Light. This version, I believe, made it appear unmistakably a fictional story.”
10. “我决定不让这个女人成为焦点，把她隐藏到模糊的醋酸酯制品后面。这个金箔是在震颤派社区找到的一个符号的图示，它被称为光之树。我相信这个版本让它看起来无疑是一个虚构故事。”