Desire is a reliably unreliable guide to happiness, as Alain de Botton notes in “The Architecture of Happiness,” the fifth or sixth book from the prolific professional intellectual who has tackled everything from status anxiety to sex. In it, the author observes that bad buildings are like bad relationships, “an example expressed through materials of the same tendency which in other domains will lead us to marry the wrong people, choose inappropriate jobs and book unsuccessful holidays: the tendency not to understand who we are and what will satisfy us.”
欲望不是通往幸福的可靠指引，正如阿兰·德波顿在《幸福的建筑》(The Architecture of Happiness)一书中所说的，这是这位高产的英伦才子作家出版的第五本或是第六本书。他为读者们解决一切问题，从身份的焦虑到性。而在这本书中，作家观察到，糟糕的建筑就好比糟糕的关系，“是某种取向体现在物质层面的一个实例；而在其它情境里，这种取向则导致我们嫁错人、选错工作、定下不开心的假期。这是一种不去理解我们是谁、什么能让我们满足的取向。”
Enter the decorator, for those who are able to afford his or her services, which is to say, the stagecraft that turns a dog into a jolie laide. Or at least the ability to make choices that would paralyze others, those of us for whom an ugly room — or perhaps an empty room, to misquote Mr. de Botton — “can coagulate any loose suspicions as to the incompleteness of life.”
让室内设计师为那些能够负担起她或他服务的人施展技能，换言之，就是让他们参与一次将一条狗变身为独具魅力的美人的表演。或至少，他们有能力作出一些可以令我们其他人感到麻痹的选择，使我们认为一个丑陋的房间——也许错引德波顿的话：一个空房间——“会令人们对生命不完美的稍许怀疑变得坚定。”
At the 41st annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House, held in a slim limestone town house on East 64th Street, 18 designers have attempted to banish such existential anxieties by ricocheting between two extremes to fill its five floors.
在纽约东64街一座纤细的石灰岩公寓大宅中，参加第41届曼哈顿基普斯湾(Kips Bay)年度室内装修展的18位设计师，要竭尽全力在繁与简这两个极端间辗转腾挪，用自己的设计填满这五层楼，以消除那种存在主义的焦虑。
“We do go back and forth,” said Jack Levy, a deep-voiced Texan with a taste for the maximalist expressions of ’40s French, ’50s Italian and ’60s American furniture and objets. “Is it enough? Is it too much?”
“我们确实一直在反反复复地尝试，”杰克·利维(Jack Levy)说。他是一位嗓音浑厚的德克萨斯州人士，对于法国40年代的极端表现主义(maximalist expressions)、意大利50年代和美国60年代的家具和器物独具品味。“这样够了吗？这样太过了吗？”
Mr. Levy said he decided early on to practice the sound decorating principal of horror vacui in his space, a fourth-floor sitting room he wrapped in a loopy Fornasetti wallpaper upon which tropical fish as big as your hand swam woozily in a brown sea. He also deployed aqueous silk taffeta curtains piped with charcoal and terra-cotta silk charmeuse; a pair of exotic wood cabinets in the style of Leleu on either side of a black marble fireplace topped with a dizzyingly amoebic-patterned oval encaustic painting borrowed from his best friend; and a delicate 19th-century French desk and chairs upholstered in a terra-cotta pink Fortuny silk damask. Then he woke up with a start a week or so ago, he said, and worried that he hadn’t done enough.
利维说，他很早便决定在自己的空间里践行“空虚恐惧”(horror vacui)这一可靠的装修原则。在四楼的起居室，他在墙壁贴上了疯狂的佛纳赛缇(Fornasetti)壁纸，上有巴掌大的热带鱼，在一片棕色海洋里自在悠游。他还布置了水塔夫绸的窗帘，配以赤褐色的真丝缎子；一对具有异国情调的Leleu风格小木橱，分别放置在大理石壁炉两侧，壁炉上那幅椭圆形的、令人眩晕的阿米巴图案蜡画是他从最要好的朋友那里借来的；房间里还有一套精巧的19世纪法国桌椅，椅子上饰以赤褐色的福尔图尼丝缎软垫。然后，大概在一周前的某天，他突然惊醒，他说，开始担心自己做得还不够。
“We have our fears, too,” Mr. Levy said. “You have to be confident, but you have to be humble enough to ask, ‘Am I doing the right thing?’ ”
“我们也有自己的恐惧，”利维说，“你必须自信，但你也要足够谦逊地问上一句，‘我正在做的事是对的吗？’”
As it happens, Richard Sharp, the owner of this long-neglected property, was thrilled with Mr. Levy’s ministrations. “He asked me if he could keep the wallpaper and the curtains,” said Mr. Levy, who estimated the cost of the contents of his room at nearly $300,000. “Which is not only a supreme compliment, but something that makes my life much easier, since in a show house you usually have to remove your wallpaper and paint everything white.”
巧的是，这栋被忽略已久的房产的主人理查德·夏普(Richard Sharp)，恰对利维的设计感到兴奋不已。“他问我是否可以保留壁纸和窗帘，”利维说。他估计，整个房间的装修花费将近3万美元（约合人民币18.29万元）。“这不仅仅是最高的赞美，还让我的生活变得更简单了，因为在样板间展示结束后，通常你还需要把壁纸除掉，把所有墙面刷白。”
Decorating paralysis is a state that Mr. Sharp, a partner at the Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy law firm, says he is all too familiar with. Ten years ago, he bought this house for $6.58 million and never moved in. (He lives in a two-bedroom rental a few blocks north.) It is the second time he has done such a thing.
夏普是Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy法律公司的合伙人，他对装修麻痹症这样的状态是再熟悉不过的了。十年前，他以658万美元（约合人民币4011.83万元）的价格买下这座宅子，但从没搬进去住过（他在往北几个街区之外，租了一套有两间卧室的公寓住）。这已经是他第二次这样做了。
“I owned a place at the Majestic and never moved in there either,” he said. “This is going to make me sound strange, but I care too much about the details. I would want to pay attention to every color and every hinge. I’m visually oriented, and so when I sit down to think, ‘Do I want to take on this project?’ it’s overwhelming.”
“我在Majestic大厦（位于纽约中央公园西路——译注）也拥有一处房产，但同样从没搬进去住过，”他说，“这样做让我听起来像个怪人，但我对于细节的确非常在意。我会关注每一处色彩、每一只铰链。我是个视觉导向的人，所以每当我坐下来思考，‘我想要进行这个项目吗？’，就会不知所措。”
Mr. Sharp, 64, a collector of Hudson River School artists and the chairman of Olana, the Frederic Edwin Church estate in Hudson, N.Y., said that when he asks his friends to recommend an architect, they tell him he needs a psychiatrist instead. So for years, he has used the house on 64th Street only to store his art.
现年64岁的夏普是哈德逊画派(Hudson River School)作品的收藏家，也在纽约哈德逊区身居弗瑞德里克·埃德温教会(Frederic Edwin Church)的财产管理委员会主席。他说每次自己请朋友们帮忙推荐设计师，朋友都会告诫他，他真正需要的是位心理医生。所以多年来，他只用64街上的这栋房子储存他收藏的艺术品而已。
It was Asher Alcobi, a real estate broker whose office is on the same block as the house, who suggested that Mr. Sharp give up the place to Kips Bay, the boys’ and girls’ club that provides after-school programs for children ages 6 to 18. Fifteen percent of the group’s operating funds are derived from the show house (tickets are $35).
房产经纪人阿谢尔•艾柯比(Asher Alcobi)的办公室同夏普这栋房子位于同一条街。是他建议夏普放弃自用这处房子的打算，而将它借给一家为6到18岁的男孩、女孩们提供课外活动的俱乐部——基普斯湾(Kips Bay)。他们集体活动的经费中，有15%也来自样板间的营利（票价为35美元，约合人民币213.40元）。
There has always been a disconnect between the fantasy worlds depicted in the show house and the 12,000 children Kips Bay serves, more than half of whom live below the poverty line. But Mr. Sharp said that contributing the use of his house beats just writing a check, and in return, he would receive what Mr. Alcobi called “branding by Kips Bay,” a selling point should Mr. Sharp choose to list the place.
样板间所展示出的美妙绝伦的世界，与基普斯湾俱乐部服务的12000名儿童之间，总像是有一道鸿沟。在这些孩子当中，有一半生活在贫困线以下。但夏普说，捐出他房子的使用权胜过仅仅写一张支票。作为回报，他可以获得艾柯比所说的“被基普斯湾铭记”的荣誉。一旦他打算出售此房，这也算是一个卖点了。
Not counting the designers’ own labor (about a month’s worth for each), creating a room in the show house costs a designer, on average, about $50,000, said Bunny Williams, the show house chairwoman. While materials like paint and fabric might be donated, the designers pay their installers and fabricators out of their own pockets.
样板间项目主席邦妮·威廉斯(Bunny Williams)介绍说，若不把设计师本人的人工成本（每位设计师起码要花一个月时间来建样板间）计算在内，每位设计师创作这样一间样板间的平均花费为5万美元（约合人民币30.49万元）。尽管涂料和织物一类的原材料有人赞助，设计师还得自掏腰包支付装修工和安装工的酬劳。
Relationships are the back story. This was the first show house for Kristin McGinnis, a 38-year-old designer who once worked for Stephen Sills and James Huniford, and cut her teeth decorating the Upper East Side apartment of Agnes Gund, the Museum of Modern Art’s president emeritus. Ms. McGinnis’s best friend from sixth grade is Elliott Hundley, a bricolage artist who just wrapped up a solo exhibition at the Andrea Rosen Gallery in Chelsea. For Ms. McGinnis’s debut, Mr. Hundley made a poetic snarl of driftwood, string and neon that she hung from the ceiling of her dining room. Along a wall, a charred bronze console by Vincent Dubourg, a French conceptual artist, that Ms. McGinnis begged from another friend, was devised in two exploded sections, suggesting a post-apocalyptic dinner party among the wreckage.
人物关系是故事的背景。这是现年38岁的克莉丝汀·麦金尼斯(Kristin McGinnis)打造的第一间样板间。她曾为斯蒂夫·希尔斯(Stephen Sills)和詹姆斯·汉尼福德(James Huniford)工作。作为一名新手，她正为纽约上东区的一处公寓做装修，公寓主人是纽约现代艺术博物馆的名誉馆长艾格尼丝·冈德(Agnes Gund)。麦金尼斯自六年级起就结交的好友埃利奥特·亨德利(Elliott Hundley)是一位拼贴艺术家，刚刚在切尔西(Chelsea)的安德烈·罗森画廊(Andrea Rosen Gallery)开办一场个展。汉尼福德专门为希尔斯的处女作打造了一个富有诗意的、从餐厅天花板上垂挂而下的浮木艺术品。在房间一堵墙的边沿，还安放了一只由法国概念艺术家文森特·杜布尔(Vincent Dubourg)打造的焦铜色落地柜。这件宝贝是麦金尼斯从另一位朋友那里求来的。这只落地柜的设计宛如爆炸成了两部分，暗示出这是一场开在残骸间的末日后的晚宴。
Last week, Mr. Sharp saw the house for the first time. He had been to Istanbul to deliver a speech, he said, and when he flew back, he was so excited he dropped off his bag in the lobby of his apartment building and came straight to the show house.
上周，夏普第一次来看了这座房子。之前他去伊斯坦布尔做了一个演讲，他说自己飞回来时非常兴奋，把行李往大堂一放就直接去看样板间了。
“It was a visual overload,” he said. “But in a beautiful, magical way. I’m not going to get granular about the objects, but I saw so many wonderful things. The jet lag notwithstanding, I didn’t sleep all night.”
“那是一种视觉超载，”他说，“但有一种美丽而奇妙的风格。我不会去关注每个物件的细节，但我看到这么多美好的东西。尽管有时差，我还是因为兴奋而整夜睡不着觉。”
What follows are a few things that kept us up at night.
下面就是一些令我们兴奋得睡不着的东西。
BEST DRESSED 
最佳装饰
A tie between two floors and four flues: The flooring in James Huniford’s atrium wore coyote fur and crocodile-printed recycled leather, while that in Eve Robinson’s elegant, if improbable, Modern Family room (improbable because it proposes a decorous night of Scrabble played by a family of four hopped up on marshmallows) wore silvery-gray pony skin, sliced up and stitched together.
两处地面和四座炉子之间可谓势均力敌：詹姆士·汉尼福德(James Huniford)为中庭的地板铺了一块郊狼皮和印有鳄鱼纹的再生皮草；而伊芙·罗宾逊(Eve Robinson)为她那间优雅又多少有点不大现实的、以“现代家庭”为主题的房间（说它不大现实是因为，她为一个四口之家设计了一个举着棉花糖玩拼字游戏的风雅之夜）地面，铺了裁成小块又缝到一起的银灰色小马皮。
As for the fireplaces, West Chin stuffed his outdoor hearth full of succulents; Ms. Robinson sheathed hers in polished stainless steel and filled it with silver blown-glass logs by the artist Suzan Etkin; Sara Story set out an armful of somber black “art” candles by Celine Cannon; and Mr. Levy covered his with faux brick laid in a herringbone pattern and a clear acrylic fire screen.
至于火炉，韦斯特·钦(West Chin)在他的露天炉子里塞满多肉植物；罗宾逊用抛光的不锈钢把她的壁炉包了个严实，还在里面放满艺术家苏珊·埃特金(Suzan Etkin)制作的银色吹制玻璃小器；萨拉·斯托瑞(Sara Story)安放了一捧出自席琳·卡农(Celine Cannon)之手的、色调深沉的黑色“艺术”蜡烛；而利维则用排列成人字形的人造砖装饰他的壁炉，还安了一个透明的亚克力防火栏。
OVERDRESSED
过度装饰
The front hall, covered in a black floral sheer by Andrew Suvalsky that looked like the negligee of a Miami matron. “I just say, Go for it,” Mr. Suvalsky said. “As you can see, I’m equal opportunity about color.”
前厅，由安德鲁·苏沃斯基(Andrew Suvalsky)装饰了一块黑色花纹的薄纱，看上去像迈阿密主妇的睡袍。“我就说，试一把吧，”苏沃斯基说，“正如你看到的，我平等地对待每种颜色。”
His walls were lacquered, variously, in black, gray, yellow and blue. There were hot-pink satin pillows on a red velvet sofa. He designed the turquoise-blue and white lacquer cabinets himself and collected a quartet of Adrien Broom photos (think Marilyn Minter by way of Gregory Crewdson) to mount above them. In one, a tiny toy cowboy marches into a model’s lipsticked mouth. “I don’t know what those people are doing, but I’d really like to,” Mr. Suvalsky said. “Is he going into her mouth, or pulling something out of it?”
他的墙被漆成五颜六色的，有褐色、灰色、黄色和蓝色；红色天鹅绒沙发上放着桃红色缎子靠垫；他自己设计了一些绿松石色和白色的漆柜，将其收集的25幅阿德里安·布鲁姆(Adrien Broom)的照片（想象一下玛丽莲·明特[Marilyn Minter，美国当代激进摄影师]以格里高利·克鲁德森[Gregory Crewdson，美国摄影师，作品极具戏剧性]的方式拍摄的效果）挂在柜子之上。在其中一幅中，一个小小的牛仔玩具被塞进一个模特儿涂满口红的嘴里。“我不知道这些人在干嘛，但我真的很想知道，”苏沃斯基说，“他是要爬进她嘴里去吗？还是正要把什么东西拉出来？”
UNDRESSED 
裸妆
On the night stand of the house’s only bedroom, in a framed print of her new ad for Scalamandré, Kathryn Ireland, the English-born Los Angeles designer and cast member of “Million Dollar Decorators” on Bravo, plays “La Grande Odalisque,” after the painting by Ingres, wearing only a swag of white sheeting and a pair of silk tassels.
出生于英格兰的洛杉矶设计师凯瑟琳·爱尔兰(Kathryn Ireland)，是Bravo电视台最近的真人秀节目《百万美元装修设计师》(Million Dollar Decorators)中的出境成员之一。在这栋房子唯一一间卧室的床头柜上，她将自己为美国纺织品品牌Scalamandré制作的最新广告画装裱在相框里。她戏仿了安格尔(Ingres)的名画《土耳其宫女》(La Grande Odalisque)，画中人物仅仅披了一件有坠感的白色被单和一对丝质流苏。
DECOMPRESSED
减压
Mariette Himes Gomez and Brooke Gomez, her daughter, presented a monochromatic English sitting room that manages to seat 14 (instead of a coffee table, there is a four-foot-square ottoman). “It’s become the ladies’ lounge,” they said.
玛丽埃特·海姆斯·高美兹(Mariette Himes Gomez)和她的女儿布鲁克·高美兹(Brooke Gomez)为大家呈现了一间单色的英式起居室，其间可坐14个人（以一只4平方英尺[约0.36平方米]的箱式凳替代了咖啡桌）。“它成了女士们的休闲室，”她们说。
OBSESSED
迷恋
Date night in the groovy hookup lounge by Louis Jon Garcia-Maldonado, with its sueded leather walls, mirrored bar shelves, gray moire curtains, mammoth daybed and crackling gel fireplace, is threatened by two female archetypes: a flame-haired warrior, a wall-size female nude painted by Eric Pedersen and a kittenish Kate Moss in a Russell Young photograph, clad in black undies and black thigh-high stockings, clutching a teddy bear.
在路易斯·乔恩·加西亚-马尔多纳多(Louis Jon Garcia-Maldonado)设计的迷人休息室中，房间的墙面是小山羊皮材质，有镜面酒吧架、灰色波纹窗帘、巨大的坐卧两用沙发和发出噼啪声的凝胶壁炉。此间的约会之夜，却被两位典型的女性形象威胁着：一位是由埃里克·裴德森(Eric Pedersen)绘制的整整一面墙大小的裸体火红头发女勇士；一位是摄影师罗素·杨(Russell Young)镜头下小猫似的凯特·摩斯(Kate Moss)，凯特穿着黑色内衣、黑色长丝袜，抱着一个泰迪熊。
UNHINGED
错乱
Ms. Story decided that surrealism and the fractured planes of Cubism were the best expressions of a designer’s state of mind. On the walls of her sitting room, there was a trippy, black-and-white stylized bamboo wallpaper that was extrapolated, she said, from doodles she used to make in art school. Ms. Story also designed a pair of lavender sofas to look like the shifting planes of a Cubist painting. The bathroom, tiled entirely in black-and-white squares, was a homage both to Andrée Putman and to Ms. Story’s own anxieties, she said. She had filled the bathtub with crumpled paper scrawled with phrases like “Bamboo: Hate or Love?”
斯托瑞认定超现实主义和立体主义的支离破碎风格，最能表现设计者的精神状态。在她设计的起居室的墙上，贴着梦幻般的黑白竹子花纹墙纸。她说这是由她以前在艺术学校画的一些涂鸦演化而来的。斯托瑞还设计了一对淡紫色沙发，看起来也是立体主义的支离破碎风格。浴室铺满黑色和白色的小方块，据斯托瑞说，这是向室内设计师安德雷·普特曼(Andrée Putman)以及她自己的焦虑致敬。她在浴缸里铺满皱巴巴的纸，上面潦草地写着“竹子：恨或爱？”一类的句子。
“It’s all my insecurities about my work,” Ms. Story said. “All the thoughts you have at 3 a.m. I just wanted to be real and genuine. To talk about design and not decoration, and how do you get there, and how do you know when it is enough?”
“这里全部是我关于工作的不安全感，”斯托瑞说，“全是你在凌晨3点产生的想法。在谈及设计而非装饰时，关于你如何实现设计，以及你如何知道设计已经到位，我只想表现出真实和诚恳。”
In every dream home, a heartache.
在每个梦幻之家中，都有一声悲叹。