William Pedersen, 76, a founder of the architecture firm Kohn Pedersen Fox, has designed some of the world’s most notable skyscrapers, including the cluster of leaning towers under construction at Hudson Yards. Even so, he staffed his own booth at the recent International Contemporary Furniture Fair, presenting his new group of carbon-steel chairs that curve through space like line drawings. In what may look to the observer like a counterintuitive career move, Mr. Pedersen, after 50 years of designing buildings, is diversifying by taking on furniture. The line, called Loop de Loop after the stunts performed by small aircraft, includes a side chair, dining chair, chaise and lounge chair with ottoman. Eventually there will be a rocker. With their knit polyester mesh, they are for outdoor or indoor use. (This interview was edited and condensed.)
科恩·佩德森·福克斯(Kohn Pedersen Fox)建筑设计公司的一位创始人、今年76岁的威廉·佩德森(William Pedersen)曾设计过一些世界知名的摩天大楼，其中包括哈德逊庭院(Hudson Yards)的那几座倾斜的大厦。虽然如此，在最近举办的国际现代家具展(International Contemporary Furniture Fair)上，他还是亲自来到自己的展位上，展示他最新设计的那批就像素描一般，在空间里画出曲线的碳钢座椅。佩德森在设计了50年大楼之后，经过在观察家看来似乎是一次违反常理的职业转变，开始从事家具设计，以求多元化发展。该系列名为“环环相扣”(Loop de Loop)，来自小型飞机表演的那种特技项目。这些作品，包括一把无扶手的椅子、一把餐椅，一个贵妃榻和一个带有搁脚凳的休闲椅。最后，还将有一把摇椅。这些椅子都采用了织网聚酯纤维面料，室内外均可使用（这篇采访经过编辑删减）。
Q. Why design chairs when your Shanghai tower is 100 stories tall?
问：既然你设计过高达100层的上海中心大厦(Shanghai tower)，为什么还要去设计座椅呢？
A. With so many dimensional and constructional requirements, it’s one of the most difficult design challenges an architect can face. It takes almost as much time to investigate the full potential of a chair as it does a large building. I’ve designed furniture before, but all the pieces were about architecture rather than sitting. This time I wanted to design a chair that was really a chair. I wanted to do something very small, very well. It took me five years.
答：座椅在立体维度和制造工艺方面有许多要求，是一名建筑师所能面对的最艰巨的设计挑战之一。探索一把椅子的各种可能性，与研究一栋大型建筑所花的时间几乎是一样的。我以前也曾设计过家具，但那时候的所有作品都与结构相关，而不是用来坐的。这一次,我想设计一把真正的椅子。我想设计出某种不但小巧，而且非常好用的东西。这花了我五年的时间。
Where did this particular idea for a chair begin?
设计椅子的具体想法是从哪儿来的呢？
I found a steel rod in a field one day and brought it into the studio, which prompted me to start bending wire. I ended up with a loop, which I wound back into the loop, and it started looking like a chair. It wasn’t an abstract exercise. It came about because I was working with my hands. It was a chance discovery.
有一天，我在外面发现一根钢条，就带回了工作室，开始动手掰弯它。最后，我把钢条做成了一个环，又给这个环做了个靠背，看起来就像把椅子了。但这不是什么抽象化的实践，而是我用自己的双手做出来的。这个想法是一次偶然的发现。
And you stuck with it.
然后你就坚持了下去。
Our house is littered with furniture I’ve designed, but nothing was comfortable or affordable. I started doing mock-ups of these new chairs, and every mock-up came with a large bill for fabrication. I asked my wife, Elizabeth, if she would back my efforts: I had to plead my case. Finally she agreed but only if I did something affordable and comfortable.
我们的屋子里乱七八糟摆放的都是我设计的家具，但没有哪件家具用起来舒服，或者价格便宜。我开始做这些新椅子的实体模型，但装配每件模型都要花一大笔钱。我问我的妻子伊丽莎白(Elizabeth)，想知道她是否会支持我的做法：我得为自己申辩。最终她同意了，但前提是我得设计出一些又经济又舒适的东西。
The chairs have an athletic attitude, like a runner at the starting block about to spring into a race.
这些椅子有一种动态，像一名正站在起跑线上、即将冲入赛道的运动员。
When you scratch the surface a bit, you’ll find I’m basically an athlete, and my feeling for form has always been influenced by the body overcoming the pull of gravity. I appreciate forms that overcome that resistance, like Brancusi’s bird, or the movement of an archer who balances the tension of the string and the compression of the bow in a beautiful equilibrium before releasing the arrow. I thought of the chairs as a gestural leap into space.
如果你稍作深入了解就会发现，我基本上就是一名运动员。而且，我对形态的感觉，一直受到克服地心引力的身体的影响。我很欣赏能够克服那种阻力的形体，比如"布朗库西之鸟"(Brancusi’s bird)，或是一名弓箭手的动作，他能平衡弦的张力与弓的拉力，使之达到完美的均衡，然后射出那只箭。我觉得这些椅子就是一种跃入空间的姿态。
Does this kind of chair have a precedent?
这样的椅子有先例吗？
It’s in the tradition of the single-line chairs done by Martin Stam, Marcel Breuer and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, but those chairs are not as pure as I wanted. They have secondary elements tacked onto the bent steel, such as arms, armrests and bracing. The seats and backs are attached, not integral to the frame. I hope to take that tradition one step further. The structural efficiency of the loops allows me to create arms and lateral bracing without adding secondary parts. The frame is in compression and the knit polyester fabric in tension, and there’s an equilibrium between the two forces.
它沿袭了由马丁·斯塔姆(Martin Stam)、马塞尔·布劳耶(Marcel Breuer)、和路德维希·密斯·凡德罗(Ludwig Mies van der Rohe)设计的那种单线条椅的传统。但那些椅子并没有我所想的那么纯粹。它们有些次要部件钉在弯曲的钢管上，比如椅臂、座椅扶手和支撑物。而坐垫与靠背是附加在上面的，并没有与框架融为一体。我希望使那种传统座椅得到进一步的发展。这些圆环的结构强度，让我可以不用增加次要部件，就设计出椅臂和横向的支撑。座椅框架受力后，聚酯针织面料就会绷紧，从而在这两种力量之间达到一种平衡。
Would you say your chairs have a temperament?
你会觉得你的这些椅子具备某种性情吗？
I’ve been told people find them playful. My architecture is not necessarily playful, but the chairs do have a lightness and buoyancy.
别人告诉我，人们发现这些椅子很好玩。我设计的建筑并不一定是好玩的，但这些椅子的确有种轻便和轻快的感觉。
How are they made?
它们是怎样制做出来的呢？
The prototypes were shaped by hand by a man who designs and builds motorcycles as a hobby. We digitized them into a program that uses CNC technology to bend the 5/8-inch high-strength carbon-steel rods into continuous loops. There are 40 individual commands, and every inch or so along each tube, the computer commands a change in the bend. It’s like squeezing a tube of toothpaste: You change the pressure, and it changes the angle.
模板是由一位爱好设计、制造摩托车的人手工加工成型的。我们将它们数字化，输入一个运用计算机数控技术的程序里，把这些5/8英寸（约1.6厘米）的高强度碳钢钢条弯成连续不断的环。单独的指令有40条，而且，在每根钢管上的每一英寸处，计算机都会给出一个弯曲变化的指令。这就像挤一管牙膏：你给的压力变了，挤压的角度也就变了。
What’s your next step?
下一步你要做什么？
I have two companies that fabricate the chairs, giving me the ability to bring them to market myself, which I might do. I’m not going to let it die. I’ve rarely been so determined.
我有两家制造这种座椅的公司，所以我有能力自己把它们推向市场，我可能会去做这件事。我不会半途而废的。我可是很少这样有决心的。
So, are they comfortable?
那么，这些椅子坐起来舒服吗？
Yes, absolutely. Even Elizabeth thinks so. 
是的，绝对舒服。连伊丽莎白都这样想。