Paul U. Unschuld, 72, is a leading scholar of the history and ideas that underlie Chinese medicine. He has taught at what was then the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health and since 2006 has headed an institute at the Charité hospital in Berlin that studies the theories, history and ethics of Chinese life sciences. Dr. Unschuld is the author of several of the West’s most influential books on Chinese medicine, including “Medicine in China: A History of Ideas,” “What Is Medicine? Western and Eastern Approaches to Healing” and “The Fall and Rise of China: Healing the Trauma of History.” In an interview, he discussed Tu Youyou’s Nobel Prize and how Chinese officials view their country’s medical heritage.
现年72岁的文树德(Paul U. Unschuld)是研究中国传统医学史及中医指导思想的著名学者。他曾在当时名为“约翰霍普金斯大学医学院卫生和公共健康学院”(Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health)的地方任教，自2006年起，一直是德国柏林夏利特医院一个研究所的主管，该所研究中国生命科学的理论、历史和伦理。文树德博士著有几部在西方最具影响力的、有关中医的书籍，其中包括《中国医学思想史》(Medicine in China: A History of Ideas)、《什么是医学:东西方的治疗之道》(What Is Medicine? Western and Eastern Approaches to Healing)，以及《中国兴衰史: 医治历史的创伤》(The Fall and Rise of China: Healing the Trauma of History)。在下面的采访中，他讨论了屠呦呦的诺贝尔奖以及中国官员如何看待自己国家的医学遗产。
Q. In “The Fall and Rise of China” you write: “From the very start (of the reform movement in the early 20th century), Chinese medicine was at the center of criticism. That is hardly surprising. Nowhere within a culture are fears and optimism expressed as swiftly and existentially as in the attitudes toward one’s own illness.”
问：在《中国兴衰史》中你写道：“自（20世纪初的改革运动）刚开始起，中医就成为被批判的核心。这不足为奇。文化中对恐惧和乐观的表达，没有比对自身疾病那样更直接、更生存意义上的态度了。”
A. The Chinese Empire was subject to a series of humiliations beginning with the First Opium War, 1839-42. The sovereignty of China over its territory appeared to have reached its lowest point exactly 100 years ago, in 1915, when Japan made its 21 Demands [extending its control in China]. These exceeded anything the Western powers had ever demanded from China and marked the beginning of decades of Japanese annexation efforts, a large-scale invasion, including the most appalling war crimes against the Chinese people.
答：自从1839年至1842年的第一次鸦片战争以来，中华帝国开始遭受一系列的耻辱。中国对其领土的统治似乎恰好在100年前的1915年跌到最低点，那年，日本提出了（扩大其对中国控制的）二十一条要求。这些要求超过了任何西方列强曾强加于中国的要求，标志着日本数十年的吞并努力和大规模侵略、包括对中国人民犯下最可恶的战争罪行的开端。
Many Chinese intellectuals saw their country as ill, and writers like Ba Jin and Lu Xun identified Chinese medicine as a symbol of China’s illness. Reformers and revolutionaries were in complete agreement that it should have no future. Naturally, conservatives raised their voice, too, warning against elimination of such a central element of Chinese culture, but, in general, ideas like yin and yang or the Five Phases [the interaction among the five elements: wood, earth, water, fire and metal] were denounced as obsolete.
许多中国知识分子认为自己的国家病了，巴金和鲁迅等作家把中医看作是中国所患疾病的一种象征。改革派和革命派都一致认为，中医在未来不应该有出路。当然，保守派也发出了自己的声音，对铲除中国文化中如此核心的一个要素提出警告。但总的来说，诸如阴阳、五行（指金、木、水、火、土的相互作用）等理论被批判为过时的东西。
Q. And eventually the government shifted on Western medicine?
问：政府最终转向了西医？
A. The turning point was the Manchurian plague of 1910-11. The population burned vinegar and set off fireworks to drive out demons, but such traditional measures didn’t stop the plague. Finally, the authorities turned to an ethnic Chinese from Malaysia, Wu Lien-teh, a Western-trained microbiologist. He quickly brought the plague under control with basic public health policies unknown before in Chinese medicine. This was a big signal to the Chinese government: We have to get closer to Western medicine, or we’re finished.
答：转折点是1910-11年发生在东北的鼠疫。当地人用烧醋、放鞭炮的方法驱魔，但这种传统方法未能阻止鼠疫的流行。当局最终求助于来自马来西亚的华侨伍连德，他是受过西方教育的微生物学家。他很快控制了鼠疫的流行，用的是中医以前没听说过的基本公共卫生政策。这对中国政府来说是一大信号：我们必须更多地接受西医，否则我们就完蛋了。
Q. And China did move quickly.
问：中国的确很快采取了行动。
A. Once the superiority of such public health measures had been recognized, a very rational attitude towards Western science and medicine was adopted that may be characteristic of China. A victim needs to look at himself to realize why he was put down. If the West can do this to us, they must have something we don’t have. We’ll get it, and in the next round we shall see. There’s an old saying: “Wo ming zai wo, bu zai tian.” My fate is in my hands, not heaven’s. This principle has been applied in China both in politics and in health care for the past 2,000 years.
答：一旦认识到这些公共卫生措施的优越性，中国人对西方科学和医学采取了一种非常理性的态度，这可能也是中国的一个特点。受害者需要搞明白自己为什么受害。如果西方能打败我们，他们一定拥有某些我们没有的东西。我们要得到它，下一个回合情况也许就能改变。有句老话叫“我命在我，不在天”。我的命运掌握在我的手里，不在老天那里。这个原则在过去的2000多年里一直适用于中国政治，也是适用于医疗保健。
Q. In terms of Chinese medicine, do you see this continuing today?
问：你看到这个原则如今在中医药方面仍在继续吗？
A. Certainly. In 2007, the government invited politicians and experts from 50 countries to draft the Beijing Declaration on Traditional Chinese Medicine and declared T.C.M. to be part of biomedicine. The future of T.C.M. was seen in molecular biological legitimation. I was the German delegate, and one high-ranking Chinese politician voiced amazement to me that some Westerners, exposed to modern science for centuries, believe in the Five Phases theory. You see, political decision makers in China can’t understand this because the Five Phases doctrine won’t make your mobile phone work. It won’t shoot a rocket to the moon. The government is not interested in promoting yin and yang and the Five Phases because it is convinced that people who believe in that are lost for the strengthening of China vis-à-vis the West. And we do see that young Chinese people are less and less open to these ideas. T.C.M. colleges in China have problems finding competent students.
答：当然。2007年，中国政府邀请来自50个国家和地区的政界人士和医学专家起草了《中医药国际科技合作北京宣言》，把中国传统医学宣布为生物医学的一部分。中医药的未来被认为在于得到分子层次以及生物学意义上的合法化。我是德国的代表，一名中国高级官员对我表达了他的惊讶：一些有几百年现代科学素养的西方人居然相信五行学说。你看，中国政治的决策者们无法理解这一点，因为五行学说不会让你的手机工作，不会把火箭送上月球。中国政府并没有兴趣提倡阴阳五行，因为政府深信，相信那些东西的人，对中国在西方意义上的强国没有帮助。我们也看到，中国年轻人中，相信这些东西的人越来越少。中国的中医学院很难录取到合格的学生。
Q. What about the Nobel Prize and Chinese medicine?
问：这个诺贝尔奖与中医药有关系吗？
A. I met Prof. Tu Youyou in the 1970s. She was a modern pharmacological researcher, working on harnessing certain herbs. She’s a perfect example for the successful modernization of Chinese medicine. Her successes are unrelated to yin and yang or the Five Phases. She had a great education in Western science, and she and her team searched through ancient literature for medications recommended to cure malaria. She used modern science to analyze Artemisia annua, figured out the active ingredient of the plant and modified it until it exerted an antimalaria effect never achieved in China before. That is what Mao Zedong had asked for: the unification of historical Chinese and modern Western medicine.
答：我在20世纪70年代见到过屠呦呦教授。她是一位现代药理学研究者，从事在某些中草药中发掘药物的工作。她是中医药现代化的一个完美的成功例子。她的成就与阴阳五行无关。她受过很好的西方科学教育，她和她的团队在古代文献中搜索治疗疟疾的偏方。她用现代科学手段分析青蒿，从这种植物中提取出活性成分，并对其进行改造，直到它产生了中国古代前所未有的抗疟效果。这正是毛泽东曾经提出的要求：把中国传统医学与西方现代医结合起来。
Q. These views contradict how many in the West see Chinese medicine.
问：这种观点与许多西方人如何看待中医药是矛盾的。
A. Professor Tu’s discovery had nothing to do with what most Westerners define as traditional Chinese medicine, except that the substance she examined is described in ancient pharmaceutical literature. The Chinese authorities are trying to strip historical Chinese medicine of superstition and nonsense. What is left can exist with molecular biology.
答：屠教授的发现与被大多数西方人定义为中国传统医学的东西无关，只不过是她研究的材料在古代医药文献中有描述而已。中国当局正在试图把迷信和无稽之谈从历史上的中国医药中剔除。剩下的东西就可以与分子生物学共存了。
That disappoints those in the West who see T.C.M. as an alternative to biomedicine. These people don’t understand why the Chinese authorities act like this. The trauma of the 19th- and early-20th-century humiliation is still present. For 100 years, China has been struggling on many fronts to catch up with the West. Professor Tu’s Nobel Prize is proof of the success of this policy.
这让那些想把中国传统医学作为现在生物医学替代的西方人失望。这些人不明白中国当局为什么这样做。中国对19世纪和20世纪初遭受屈辱的创伤仍记忆犹新。100年来，中国一直努力在很多方面追赶西方。屠教授的诺贝尔奖是这种政策成功的证明。
Q. And yet many people in China opt for traditional medicine.
问：可是还有很多中国人选择中医药。
A. Western medicine can’t achieve miracles, and there are many everyday health problems it cannot solve. Many Chinese — and Westerners — know that there are recipes in Chinese medicine that work, regardless of whether there is scientific evidence. It is a characteristic common to all societies with a coexistence of modern and traditional health care options. Patients are aware of the strengths and weaknesses of the alternatives and oscillate between modernity and tradition accordingly.
答：西医不能实现奇迹，而且也解决不了许多日常的健康问题。许多中国人以及一些西方人知道有些中药偏方能治病，不管是否有科学证据。在所有的传统和现代医疗保健体系共存的社会中，都有这个共同特点。患者知道替代医学的优势和弱点所在，他们在现代与传统之间做出相应的选择。