Juan Gelman, an Argentine poet who challenged the petty and profound tyrannies of his country’s military junta — including those directed against his family — in works that established him as a formidable presence in the Spanish-language literary canon, died on Tuesday at his home in Mexico City, where he had lived for many years. He was 83.
阿根廷诗人胡安·赫尔曼(Juan Gelman)周二（此处指1月14日）在墨西哥城的家中去世，享年83岁，他生前在墨西哥城居住多年。他在作品中抨击阿根廷军政府大大小小的专制暴政，包括对他家人的残暴行径，这些作品让他成为西班牙语文学殿堂中一个令人敬畏的人物。
News reports in Mexico attributed the death to myelodysplastic syndrome, a form of bone marrow disease. However, a friend of Mr. Gelman, Iván Trejo, said the cause was lung cancer.
墨西哥的新闻报道称死因是骨髓增生异常综合征。但是赫尔曼的朋友伊万·特雷霍(Iván Trejo)说死因是肺癌。
Mr. Gelman, the author of more than 20 books, was revered in Spain and Latin America, especially for his work in opposition to the durable far-right strain of governance in Argentina. His subjects included oppression and injustice (his ire often expressed with philosophical and linguistic vigor rather than visceral punch); the power and impotence of language; the eternalness of art, and poetry itself.
赫尔曼共写了20多本书，在西班牙和拉美深受敬重，特别是那些反对阿根廷长久的极右翼高压政策的作品。他作品的主题包括压迫和不公（他通常以哲学和语言的力量来表达愤怒，而不是冲动的抨击）；语言的力量和无力；艺术的永恒；以及诗歌本身。
His work was not routinely translated into English, partly because he was interested in exploiting nuances of language that were difficult to capture in other tongues. In his 60s Mr. Gelman taught himself Ladino, a language of Sephardic Jews derived from Old Spanish and written in Hebrew letters. He then wrote “Dibaxu,” a book that explored the Sephardic diaspora following the Spanish Inquisition.
他的作品没有被例行公事地全部翻译成英语，其中一个原因是他喜欢充分展现语言的微妙，这种微妙很难用其他语言表达。赫尔曼60多岁的时候自学拉地诺语，那是西班牙系犹太人的语言，衍生自古老的西班牙语，是用希伯来字母书写的。然后他写了《Dibaxu》一书，探究西班牙宗教裁判导致的西班牙犹太人的离散。
The independence of languages and the relation of language to life were issues he addressed often, notably in “Translations III: The Poems of Sidney West.” A cagey 1969 collection of blank verse eulogies, its poems are ostensibly Spanish translations of the work of an American that suggest an avant-garde Edgar Lee Masters, except that there is no such poet and there were no English poems to translate.
语言的独立性以及语言与人生的关系是他经常探究的主题，特别在《翻译3：西德尼·韦斯特的诗歌》(Translations III: The Poems of Sidney West)中。这本巧妙的无韵诗集出版于1969年，其中的诗歌表面上看是对一个美国人作品的西班牙翻译，这个诗人有点像先锋派的埃德加·李·马斯特斯(Edgar Lee Masters)，而实际上没有这样一个诗人，也没有可翻译的英文诗歌。
(When the poems actually were translated into English and published in 2008, the translators, Katherine M. Hedeen and Victor Rodríguez Núñez, wrote, “West is among the best imaginary poets not only of Whitman’s native land, allegedly his as well, but of all possible lands.”)
（当这些诗歌2008年真的被翻译成英文并出版时，译者凯瑟琳·M·赫登[Katherine M. Hedeen]和维克多·罗德里格斯·努涅斯[Victor Rodríguez Núñez]写道，“韦斯特不仅是惠特曼的祖国——据说那也是他的祖国——最优秀的虚构诗人之一，而且是所有可能的土地上最优秀的虚构诗人之一。”）
Mr. Gelman wrote essays and journalistic pieces as well as poems, and he was already a revered writer from the left when he became tragically embroiled in the so-called dirty war, the state-sponsored terrorist campaign propagated by Argentina’s right-wing junta after a military coup in 1976.
赫尔曼除了写诗，还写过散文和新闻报道，在他不幸卷入所谓肮脏的战争中时，他已经是一位受尊敬的左翼作家。那场肮脏的战争是1976年军事政变之后上台的阿根廷右翼军政府支持的恐怖主义战争。
By the time democracy was restored, in 1983, thousands of citizens with suspected ties to socialism and dissident groups had been seized and “disappeared.” Mr. Gelman had been living in exile in Europe, but among the kidnapped in 1976 were his 19-year-old daughter, Nora Eva; his 20-year-old son, Marcelo Ariel; and his son’s wife, María Claudia García Iruretagoyena de Gelman, who was seven months pregnant.
1983年恢复民主统治之时，已有成千上万涉嫌与社会主义有瓜葛的平民和异见团体被逮捕，并“失踪”。赫尔曼在军政府统治期间流亡到了欧洲，但是在1976年的绑架中，他19岁的女儿诺拉·伊娃(Nora Eva)、20岁的儿子马塞洛·阿列尔(Marcelo Ariel)以及怀有七个月身孕的儿媳玛丽·克劳迪娅·加西亚·伊鲁雷塔戈耶纳·德·格尔曼(María Claudia García Iruretagoyena de Gelman)被绑架了。
Nora Eva survived, but Mr. Gelman’s son and daughter-in-law were killed, and their child, a girl, was given away to a Uruguayan family. Mr. Gelman’s search for information about his family members’ fates made him a symbol of the fight for human rights. Years later he was able to find and identify the remains of his son, and he finally located his granddaughter in 2000.
诺拉·伊娃活了下来，但是赫尔曼的儿子和儿媳被杀了，他们的女儿被送给了一个乌拉圭人家。赫尔曼对自己家人消息的寻找让他成为争取人权的象征。多年后他找到并确认了儿子的遗体，2000年最终找到了孙女。
In 2007 Mr. Gelman was given the Cervantes Prize, an annual award for lifetime achievement that is considered the highest honor in Spanish-language literature. (Its laureates include Jorge Luis Borges, Octavio Paz, Carlos Fuentes and Mario Vargas Llosa.)
2007年，赫尔曼获得了塞万提斯奖，这个年度终身成就奖被认为是西班牙语文学的最高奖项（获得该奖的还有若热·路易斯·博尔赫斯[Jorge Luis Borges]、奥克塔维奥·帕斯[Octavio Paz]、卡洛斯·富恩特斯[Carlos Fuentes]和马里奥·巴尔加斯·略萨[Mario Vargas Llosa]）。
“He is a gigantic voice in the constellation of Latin American poetry of the 20th century,” Ilan Stavans, a professor of Hispanic culture at Amherst College, said of Mr. Gelman in an interview.
“他是20世纪拉美诗歌群星中的重要一员，”阿默斯特学院西班牙语文化教授伊兰·斯塔文斯(Ilan Stavans)在采访中这样评价赫尔曼。
Mr. Gelman’s poetry, he added, was in the tradition of Pablo Neruda’s, “mixing or juxtaposing politics and poetics, calling attention to social problems, confronting the powers that be and sympathizing with the disenfranchised.”
他补充说，赫尔曼的诗歌继承了巴勃罗·聂鲁达(Pablo Neruda)的诗歌传统，“把政治和诗歌结合在一起或者说并列放置，引起人们对社会问题的注意，对抗强权，同情被剥夺公民权利的人。”
Mr. Gelman’s favorite themes can be found woven into the conclusion of the poem “End,” translated by Professor Stavans:
你能在斯塔文斯教授翻译的《结尾》(End)一诗的最后找到赫尔曼最爱的主题：
Poetry is a way of living.
诗歌是一种生活方式。
Look at the people at your side.
看看你身边的人们。
Do they eat? Suffer? Sing? Cry?
他们吃饭吗？痛苦吗？歌唱吗？痛哭吗？
Help them fight for their hands, their eyes, their mouth, for the kiss to kiss and the kiss to give away, for their table, their bread, their letter a and their letter h, for their past — were they not children? — for their present, for the piece of peace, of history and happiness that belongs to them, for the piece of love, big, small, sad, joy, that belongs to them and is taken away in the name of what, of what?
帮助他们斗争——为了他们的双手、眼睛、嘴巴；为了亲吻；为了他们的桌子、面包、字母a和h；为了他们的过去——谁不曾是个孩子？——为了他们的现在；为了属于他们的和平、历史和幸福；为了那些属于他们却以各种名义被剥夺的或大或小的爱、哀伤和欢乐。
Your life will then be an innumerable river to be called pedro, juan, ana, maria, bird, lung, the air, my shirt, violin, sunset, stone, that handkerchief, old waltz, wooden horse.
你的生命将从此变成一条无尽的河流，被称为佩德罗、胡安、安娜、玛丽亚、小鸟、肺、空气、我的衬衫、小提琴、日落、石头、那块手绢、老华尔兹、木马。
Poetry is this.
这就是诗歌。
Afterward, write it.
然后，把它写下来。
Juan Gelman Burichson was born on May 3, 1930, in Buenos Aires to Jewish immigrants from Ukraine. As a boy he read widely in Russian and European literature under the tutelage of his brother Boris. Though he studied chemistry at the University of Buenos Aires, he never finished his degree and instead, as a Communist, went to work as an editor and columnist for left-leaning publications.
胡安·赫尔曼·布里奇桑(Juan Gelman Burichson)1930年5月3日出生在布宜诺斯艾利斯一个来自乌克兰的犹太移民家庭。小时候在哥哥鲍里斯(Boris)的指导下广泛阅读俄语和欧洲文学。虽然他在布宜诺斯艾利斯大学读化学专业，但是他一直没有完成学业，而是以共产党员身份为左倾出版物担任编辑和专栏作家。
In the 1960s he joined the guerrilla group known as the Montoneros, though he eventually parted ways with them as their militarism advanced. His first book of poems, “Violin and Other Issues,” was published in 1956.
20世纪60年代，他加入名为“城市游击队”(Montoneros)的游击组织，不过最终与之分道扬镳，因为后者的军国主义情绪越来越高涨。他的第一本诗集《小提琴及其他》(Violin and Other Issues)出版于1956年。
Mr. Gelman’s survivors include his wife, Mara; a daughter, Paola; and three grandchildren, including the one with whom he was reunited in 2000. His death elicited official statements of grief in two nations.
赫尔曼在世的亲人包括妻子玛拉(Mara)、女儿葆拉(Paola)和三个孙辈，包括2000年与他团聚的那个孙女。他的去世在两个国家引起了官方哀悼。
In announcing the death on Twitter, Rafael Tovar y de Teresa, president of Conaculta, Mexico’s culture and arts council, called Mr. Gelman a “poet of the Mexican soul.”
墨西哥文化艺术委员会主席拉斐尔·托瓦·y·德·特里萨(Rafael Tovar y de Teresa)在Twitter上宣布赫尔曼的死讯时称他是一位“拥有墨西哥灵魂的诗人”。
In Argentina, President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner declared a three-day national period of mourning. The nation’s culture secretary, Jorge Coscia, said of Mr. Gelman in a television interview, “His whole life was a committed poem.”
在阿根廷，总统克里斯蒂娜·费尔南德斯·德·柯克纳(Cristina Fernández de Kirchner)宣布全国哀悼三天。该国的文化部长若热·科夏(Jorge Coscia)在电视采访中说“他的一生是一首忠诚的诗歌”。