Q. Dear Civil Behavior: Our daughter is a senior in high school and quite comfortable with her lesbian identity. We support her 100 percent, but we know the world is not always so tolerant. As she’s writing her college application essays this fall, she’s “coming out” in them — and we think that’s a bad idea. You just never know who’s reading these essays, so why risk revealing your orientation to someone who might be biased against you? We’ve strongly suggested she think over the ramifications of what she’s doing, but she doesn’t seem to have any doubt about it. Deadlines are approaching and we are at an impasse. How can we persuade her to keep some things private if they might hurt her chances of admission?” — Anonymous
问：亲爱的“公民行为”专栏，我的女儿是一名高四学生，对于她的女同性恋身份，她感到十分自如。我们百分百地支持她，但我们知道世界并不总是如此宽容。这个秋天，她正在写大学申请材料，在申请作文中她“出柜”了——我们觉得这是一个坏主意。你不知道谁会读到这些申请材料，所以为什么要冒险将自己的性向曝光在可能会歧视你的人面前呢？我们强烈建议她考虑她这样做可能产生的后果，但她对此没有任何怀疑。申请截止日快到了，我们进退两难。在说实话可能会影响到她被录取的可能性时，到底应该怎么样劝说她保持一部分自己的隐私呢？——匿名家长
A. I can see why for boomer parents this situation could be an especially tough call, since our own experience colors our point of view. When our generation applied to college, gays and lesbians kept their sexual orientation under wraps — for very good reason. For example, at Duke University, my alma mater, “the Duke of older times was saturated with homophobia,” its president, Richard H. Brodhead, said in a speech this fall. He acknowledged “evidence of official intolerance and active repression of homosexuality at Duke from the 1960s,” and noted the national context: “It would be hard to describe today how deeply entrenched prejudice on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity was in this country at this time. Homophobic prejudice was everywhere, with its aggressive mockery and crude repression.” Applicants could hardly be faulted for concealing what was then a possible cause for expulsion.
答：我能明白为什么对于在婴儿潮一代出生的家长来说，这样的情况会让人尤其为难，因为我们自己的经历会决定我们看问题的视角。当我们这一代申请大学入学时，同性恋人群将他们的性向藏得很深——理由非常充分。比如说，在杜克大学(Duke University)，我的母校，“过去的杜克充满了对同性恋的厌憎，”校长理查德·布鲁海德(Richard H. Brodhead)在今年秋天的一个演讲中这么说道。他提到“有证据表明上世纪60年代起在杜克校园中校方对同性恋的不理解以及频发的压迫”，也指出了当时的全国大环境：“在今日，我们很难形容当时这个国家在性取向与性别认知方面有着多么深的偏见。对同性恋的偏见随处可见，伴随着露骨的嘲笑和粗鲁的镇压。”如果申请者隐藏了性向这个在当时可能导致落选的因素，那是无可指摘的。
But times have changed. It is notable that Dr. Brodhead made his remarks at the opening of a new Center for Sexual and Gender Diversity, in the heart of Duke’s campus.
但现在的时代已经不同了。在位于杜克校园中心的全新的性与性别多样性中心(Center for Sexual and Gender Diversity)开幕仪式上，布鲁海德已经做出了他的声明。
Today’s youth also have different feelings about personal privacy than our generation does. Boomers who understand and accept the many variations in sexual identity may see no need to broadcast it to the world, or to make it the focus of a college application essay.
如今的年轻人在个人隐私方面和我们这一代人有着不同的感受。在出生于人口大爆炸时期的人群中，那些理解与接受性别认知多样化的人可能觉得没有必要将其公之于众，或者把它当作大学入学申请材料的焦点。
But a high school senior today has come of age amid a torrent of texts and posts that bare everything (sometimes literally). So I find two questions within your question: First, will this affect my child’s chances of admission? And second, whether or it does or not, what is the best stance for you to take?
但是在如今的高中毕业生所处的时代，如山洪一般倾泻而下的短信与帖子能够使任何东西暴露在阳光之下（在有些情境里这个比喻成为了现实）。所以我在你的问题里找到了两个分问题：第一，这会对我孩子得到录取名额有影响吗？第二，这是我们应该站的立场吗？
For the first, I asked a number of current L.G.B.T. undergrads how they had handled this issue on their college applications. One current student told me: “In the end, I didn’t include any mention of that aspect of my identity in my essays. I didn’t want to have even the slightest chances of affecting my chances of admission.” Others said they believed that coming out in their essays had played a part in their being rejected by schools they should have gotten into. Still others thought that by coming out they could increase the odds of admission at a school committed to a diverse student body.
对于第一个问题，我询问了一下几位正在就学的L.G.B.T（即女同性恋、男同性恋、双性恋和变性者）本科学生，想知道他们是如何在大学入学申请时处理这个问题的。一个学生告诉我：“在最后，我在申请材料中没有任何一个地方提到我性向认知这一方面。我不希望这影响到我被录取的可能性，即使只有最轻微的可能。”其他人都认为，在申请材料中出柜这件事会成为那些本应录取他们的学校最终拒绝他们的理由之一。不过，他们也都觉得，如果那个学校是欢迎生源多样化的，那出柜则会提高被录取的可能性。
I also called an expert, Christoph Guttentag, who is Duke’s dean of admissions and has read more than 50,000 essays. He replied that if a school has antigay policies or is generally L.G.B.T.–unfriendly (usually religious colleges), then he recommends putting a lid on your sexual orientation or gender identity. Otherwise, he told me, “When students present themselves as who they are, it’s rewarded in the admissions process. Authenticity is perhaps the attribute we see too rarely.”
我也找来了一位专家，克里斯托夫·克腾塔格(Christoph Guttentag)，他是杜克大学本科招生办主任，阅读过超过5万份的申请材料。他的回答是，如果一所学校有反对同性恋的政策，或者总体上对L.G.B.T人群不太友好（通常是一些宗教学校），他推荐还是在性取向或者性别认知上有所保留。在其他情况下，他告诉我：“当学生们展现出他们真实自我的时候，他们会在招生环节得到优待。也许真实这种品质我们见得太少了。”
On a more practical level, however, whatever your daughter says in her essay it’s not difficult for an admissions officer to learn about her sexuality. According to a 2013 Kaplan Test Prep survey, 31 percent of college admissions officers said they had visited a prospective applicant’s social media page – up 5 percentage points from a year ago. Even a cursory online search could reveal that an applicant has started a straight-gay alliance at their high school or posted a blog about the challenges of coming out, said Seppy Basili, a Kaplan vice president.
但是，在一个更实际的层面上，不管你们的女儿在她申请材料中说了什么，对一个招生官员来说得知她的性取向并不是什么难事。根据一份2013年卡普兰考试培训的调查，有31%的大学招生官员说，他们会访问预期申请者的社交媒体页面——比一年前上升了5个百分点。卡普兰副总裁塞皮·巴斯利(Seppy Basili)表示，连一个草草进行的网上搜索都可能让人发现，某一个申请者在他们的高中创立了一个异性恋与同性恋联盟，或者发表了一篇关于出柜是如何具有挑战性的博客。
Are you confused yet? I don’t blame you — college admissions is a difficult, high-stakes game with rules that are opaque to the players (even more so than in our day). To make things more complicated, it’s the second part of your question that is the one with more profound implications.
你现在还感到困惑吗？我不怪你——大学招生是一项艰难的、高风险的游戏，游戏的规则对玩家来说并不透明（甚至比你我那个年代更甚）。让事情变得更复杂的是，你问题的第二部分才是有着更深刻的含义的。
Here’s why: There’s a big difference between sharing too much (which kids today admittedly do), and actively concealing something.
原因如下：过度分享（现在孩子们公认都是这么做的）与主动隐藏一些东西，这二者之间有着巨大的差别。
The Common App invites applicants to share “a background or story that is so central to their identity that they believe their application would be incomplete without it.” I can think of several such topics that may feel core to a high school senior. If your daughter had been adopted, had had a life-altering accident, or were biracial, would you discourage her from writing about it? I doubt it. As one gay student told me, “My parents did something similar and it gave me a sense of shame, that there was something wrong with me that needed to be hidden.”
Common App（美国大学本科入学网上申请的一站式网站——译注）邀请申请者们分享“在他们看来，对于他们的申请不可或缺的与他们自我认知关联最紧密的背景或者故事”。我能想出好几个对高中毕业生来说十分重要的类似主题。如果你的女儿是被领养的，遭遇过改变人生轨迹的意外事故，或者是一个混血儿，那你会反对她把这些写下来吗？我觉得应该不会。就像有一个同性恋学生所告诉我的，“我的父母亲做了差不多的事情，这给我带来一种羞愧的感觉，像是我出了什么问题，必须要掩盖起来似的。”
In the end, the strategic question probably can’t be definitely answered — nor may it be the best one to ask. In 20 years will she remember what her essay was about? I doubt it. As one mother wrote me, “In the end it actually matters very little what she decides to write in her application, but it matters a lot if she starts to think that her parents want her to hide who she is from the world.”
最终，最基本的问题可能没法得到彻底的解答——它也不是最适合被提出来的。在20年后，她还会记得自己申请材料上写了什么吗？我对此表示怀疑。像一位母亲在给我的信中所写，“最终，她决定在申请书中写什么，其实并不要紧，但如果她开始觉得她的父母希望她在全世界面前藏起自己的本性，那就严重了。”
Clearly you’ve given your daughter a strong sense of self and the confidence to be who she is, even if the world is not as tolerant as we’d all hope. Sure, one of a parent’s jobs is to worry, but after 17 or so years you can’t be there for every important decision in life. So, please reconsider what message you are sending to her when you ask her to conceal her identity.
很明显，你们给了你们的女儿一个很强烈的自我意识，以及对自己本性的自信，即使这个世界并不像我们所希望的那样宽容。当然，父母的天职之一就是担心，但是在17年或者差不多时间之后，你不可能在她生命中做每个重要决定时都陪在她身边。所以，请重新考虑一下，当你要求她隐藏自我的时候，你在向她传递着怎样的信息。
If you were the parent, how would you handle this situation? And do you think they really have any reason to worry in this post-Glee world?
如果你是这对父母，你会怎么处理这个问题？你是否认为他们真的有理由担心这个后Glee时代的世界？