MOSCOW — AS I write this, I am under house arrest. I was detained at a rally in support of anti-Putin protesters who were jailed last month.
莫斯科——我写这篇文章的时候，正在遭到软禁。我是在参加一个集会的时候被拘留的，该集会是为了声援上个月入狱的反普京抗议者。
In September, I ran for mayor of Moscow as a pro-reform, pro-democracy opposition candidate and received almost a third of the vote despite having no access to state media. Today, my blog, which was until recently visited by over two million readers per month, has been blocked as “extremist” after I called for friendly ties with Ukraine and compliance with international law.
去年9月，我作为一个支持改革和民主的反对派候选人竞选莫斯科市长，尽管无法在国有媒体上露面，我仍然获得了将近三分之一的选票。在我呼吁和乌克兰保持友好关系，并且遵循国际法之后，今天，我的博客以“极端主义”的罪名被封杀了。直到不久前，这个博客每月都有逾200万的访问者。
For years, I have been telling journalists that President Vladimir V. Putin’s approval rating would soon peak and then tumble. Russia’s economy is stagnant, I said, and the Russian people would soon weary of the president’s empty promises. Even a rally-round-the-flag military adventure — a “little war,” as it’s known in Russia — would be impossible, I believed. Russia no longer had enemies.
多年以来，我一直对记者们说，普京总统的支持率将很快达到巅峰，然后下滑。我说，俄罗斯的经济陷入停滞，俄罗斯人很快就会对总统的空头支票感到厌倦。当时我相信，不可能会出现一个“团结在国旗周围”的军事冒险——它在俄罗斯被称为“小规模战争”。俄罗斯不再有敌人。
Then, on Feb. 28, Russia sent troops to Ukraine in precisely such a “little war.” I admit that I underestimated Mr. Putin’s talent for finding enemies, as well as his dedication to ruling as “president for life,” with powers on par with the czars’.
然后，在2月28日，俄罗斯正是在这样一个“小规模战争”中出兵乌克兰的。我承认我低估了普京找到敌人的才华，低估了他要像沙皇一般大权在握，像“终身总统”那样统治下去的执着。
As a citizen and patriot, I cannot support actions against Russia that would worsen conditions for our people. Still, I recommend two options that, if successfully implemented, I believe would be welcomed by most Russians.
作为一个公民和爱国者，我绝不会支持不利于俄罗斯、降低俄罗斯人生活水平的行动。不过我还是要推荐两个做法，如果成功施行了，我相信会受到大多数俄罗斯人的欢迎。
First, although Mr. Putin’s invasion has already prompted the European Union to impose sanctions on 21 officials, and the United States on seven, most of these government figures cannot be considered influential. They do not have major assets outside Russia and are irrelevant to Mr. Putin; sanctioning them will not change Russia’s policy. After all the tough talk from Western politicians, this action is mocked in Russia and even seen as a tacit encouragement to Mr. Putin and his entourage, who seem to possess some magical immunity.
首先，尽管普京的入侵已经导致了欧盟对21名官员进行制裁，美国对七名官员进行制裁，但这些官员中的大部分都不太有影响力。他们在俄罗斯之外的国家没有大笔资产，对普京来说无关紧要；制裁他们不会让俄罗斯改变政策。西方政客虽然言辞强硬，但他们的制裁措施在俄罗斯却遭到了嘲笑，甚至被看作是对普京一伙人的默默鼓励，这些人似乎拥有某种神奇的免疫力。
Instead, Western nations could deliver a serious blow to the luxurious lifestyles enjoyed by the Kremlin’s cronies who shuttle between Russia and the West. This means freezing the oligarchs’ financial assets and seizing their property.
其实，西方国家可以对穿梭于俄罗斯和西方之间、享受着奢华生活方式的克里姆林宫亲信们施以重击。这意味着冻结寡头的金融资产，扣押他们的财产。
Such sanctions should primarily target Mr. Putin’s inner circle, the Kremlin mafia who pillage the nation’s wealth, including Gennady N. Timchenko, head of the Volga Group; Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, influential businessmen and former judo sparring partners of Mr. Putin; Yuri V. Kovalchuk, a financier believed to be Mr. Putin’s banker; Vladimir I. Yakunin, president of Russian Railways; the oligarchs Roman A. Abramovich and Alisher B. Usmanov; and Igor I. Sechin and Aleksei B. Miller, the heads of Rosneft and Gazprom, respectively.
这种制裁应当主要针对普京的核心圈子、掠夺国家财富的克里姆林宫黑手党，他们包括伏尔加集团(Volga Group)的掌门人格纳迪·N·季姆琴科(Gennady N. Timchenko)；知名商人、普京以前的柔道陪练伙伴阿尔卡季·罗滕贝格和鲍里斯·罗滕贝格(Arkady and Boris Rotenberg)；金融家尤里·V·科瓦尔恰(Yuri V. Kovalchuk)，他被认为是普京的御用银行家；俄铁( Russian Railways)总裁弗拉基米尔·I·亚库宁(Vladimir I. Yakunin)；寡头罗曼·A·阿布拉莫维奇(Roman A. Abramovich)和阿利舍尔·B·乌斯曼诺夫(Alisher B. Usmanov)；以及俄罗斯石油公司(Rosneft)总裁伊格尔·I·谢钦(Igor I. Sechin)，俄罗斯天然气工业股份公司(Gazprom)主席阿列克谢·B·米勒(Alexey B Miller)。
The sanctions must also hit the oligarchs whose media outlets parrot the regime lines, and target Mr. Putin’s entire “war cabinet”: the TV spin doctors, compliant Duma members and apparatchiks of Mr. Putin’s United Russia Party.
制裁还必须打击一些媒体业寡头，他们的媒体机构是政府的传声筒，此外，还要针对普京的整个“战时内阁”进行制裁，他们包括电视宣传主脑，顺从上意的杜马议员，以及普京的统一俄罗斯党(United Russia Party)的高层。
The invasion of Ukraine has polarized members of Russia’s elite, many of whom view it as reckless. Real sanctions, such as blocking access to their plush London apartments, will show that Mr. Putin’s folly comes with serious costs.
入侵乌克兰已经导致俄罗斯的精英阶层两极分化，其中许多人认为这是鲁莽之举。施以有力的制裁，比如阻止他们前往自己在伦敦的豪华公寓，将表明普京的荒唐行径会带来沉重代价。
Second, Western authorities must investigate ill-gotten gains from Russia within their jurisdictions. The Anti-Corruption Foundation, which I established in 2011, has revealed dozens of major cases of graft. In 90 percent of those cases, Russian money was laundered in the West. Sadly, American, European Union and British law enforcement agencies have stymied our efforts to investigate such criminal plunder.
其次，西方政府必须调查属于其管辖范围内的、来自俄罗斯的不义之财。我2011年成立的反贪基金会(Anti-Corruption Foundation)揭露过几十起贪污大案。在90%的案子中，俄罗斯的腐败之徒都是在西方洗钱的。可悲的是，美国、欧盟和英国的执法机构却阻碍了我们对这种掠夺犯罪的调查。
“Crimea has always been an integral part of Russia in the hearts and minds of people,” Mr. Putin claimed this week. But even among the most nationalist and pro-Soviet of our people, a longing to restore Crimea to Russian rule faded years ago.
普京本周声称：“在公众的心中和意识里，克里米亚一直是俄罗斯不可分割的一部分。”其实，即便那些最具民族主义情结和最亲苏联的人，多年来也已经逐渐打消了让克里米亚回归俄罗斯的念头。
Yet Mr. Putin has cynically raised nationalist fervor to a fever pitch; imperialist annexation is a strategic choice to bolster his regime’s survival. Mobilizing the masses by distracting them from real problems like corruption and economic stagnation can take place only beneath the banner of fighting external enemies.
然而，普京自私地把民族主义情绪推高到了狂热水平；帝国主义吞并行动是他用来巩固其政权的一个战略选择。只有抓住跟外部敌人作斗争的大旗，才能把公众的目光从腐败和经济停滞这样的实际问题上转移开，并将他们动员起来。
What is truly alarming in Mr. Putin’s rash behavior is that he is motivated by the desire for revenge against the Ukrainian people for revolting against a Kremlin-friendly government. A rational actor would know that the precedent of holding a local referendum to determine sovereignty is risky for Russia — a federation of more than 80 disparate regions, including more than 160 ethnic groups and at least 100 languages.
普京的轻率行径真正令人担忧的地方在于，驱使他这么做的，是一种对乌克兰公众的报复欲，因为他们对亲克里姆林宫的政府进行了反抗。理智的人都知道，用某个地方的全民公投来决定主权归属的事情一旦开了先例，对俄罗斯来说是很危险的，因为这个联盟有80多个不同的地区，160多个族群，至少讲100种语言。