WASHINGTON — About once a month, staff members of the congressional intelligence committees drive across the Potomac River to CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia, and watch videos of people being blown up.
华盛顿——大约每月一次，国会情报委员会的工作人员会驱车跨过波托马克河，来到位于弗吉尼亚州兰利的中央情报局(CIA)总部，观看人被炸飞的视频。
As part of the macabre ritual the staff members look at the footage of drone strikes in Pakistan and other countries and a sampling of the intelligence buttressing each strike, but not the internal CIA cables discussing the attacks and their aftermath. The screenings have provided a veneer of congressional oversight and have led lawmakers to claim that the targeted killing program is subject to rigorous review, to defend it vigorously in public and to authorize its sizable budget each year.
作为这个可怕仪式的部分内容，这些国会工作人员会查看对巴基斯坦等国境内的目标实施无人机袭击的录像片段，以及支持每次袭击的情报的样本，但不会看到中情局内部讨论袭击及其后果的电报。播放这些视频提供了一个幌子，表明国会在对相关事宜进行监管，还让一些议员宣称这个定点清除项目受到了严格审核，在公开场合对其进行大力捍卫，并且每年批准用于该项目的巨额预算。
That unwavering support from Capitol Hill is but one reason the CIA's killing missions are embedded in U.S. warfare and unlikely to change significantly despite President Barack Obama's announcement Thursday that a drone strike accidentally killed two innocent hostages, an American and an Italian. The program is under fire like never before, but the White House continues to champion it, and CIA officers who built the program more than a decade ago — some of whom also led the CIA detention program that used torture in secret prisons — have ascended to the agency's powerful senior ranks.
中情局的清除任务之所以与美国的战事密不可分，而且也不大可能发生显著改变——尽管贝拉克·奥巴马总统上周四宣布，一次无人机袭击意外导致两名分别来自美国和意大利的无辜人质死亡——来自国会的坚定支持不过是其中的原因之一。该项目现在受到了力度空前的抨击，但白宫还在对它加以捍卫，而且十多年前设立该项目的那批中情局官员——其中有些人还同时负责中情局在秘密监牢实施酷刑的羁押项目——已经在局内晋升为手握大权的高层。
Although lawmakers insist there is great accountability to the program, interviews with administration and congressional officials show that Congress holds the program to less careful scrutiny than many members assert. Top CIA officials, who learned the importance of cultivating Congress after the resistance they ran into on the detention program, have dug in to protect the agency's drone operations, frustrating a pledge by Obama two years ago to overhaul the program and pull it from the shadows.
尽管一些议员坚称无人机项目具有相当大的可靠性，但是对奥巴马政府和国会官员的采访表明，国会对该项目的审核力度，要比许多议员所宣称的要轻。 在羁押项目上受阻之后，中情局高层官员意识到了培养与国会的良好关系的重要性，一直在极力保护局内的无人机行动。这使得奥巴马两年前做出的承诺落了空，即对该项目进行全面改革，并公之于众。
Perhaps no single CIA officer has been more central to the effort than Michael D'Andrea, a gaunt, chain-smoking convert to Islam who was chief of operations during the birth of the agency's detention and interrogation program and then, as head of the CIA Counterterrorism Center, became an architect of the targeted killing program. Until last month, when D'Andrea was quietly shifted to another job, he presided over the growth of CIA drone operations and hundreds of strikes in Pakistan and Yemen during nine years in the position.
对于这项工作，或许没有哪位中情局官员的重要性比迈克尔·丹德烈亚(Michael D’Andrea)更大。他面容憔悴、烟不离手，皈依了伊斯兰教，是中情局羁押与审讯项目诞生期间的行动负责人。后来，作为中情局反恐中心(Counterterrorism Center)的领导者，他成为了定点清除项目的一名策划人。上个月，丹德烈亚悄然调任另一职位。此前，在担任反恐中心职务的九年间，他负责中情局无人机行动的发展，主持了巴基斯坦和也门境内的数以百计的袭击行动。
In secret meetings on Capitol Hill, D'Andrea was a forceful advocate for the drone program and won supporters among both Republicans and Democrats. Congressional staff members said that he was particularly effective in winning the support of Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who was chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee until January, when Republicans assumed control of the chamber.
在国会山的秘密会议中，丹德烈亚大力宣扬无人机项目，在共和党与民主党之中均有其支持者。国会工作人员称，他十分成功地获得了来自加利福尼亚州的民主党参议员黛安·范斯坦(Dianne Feinstein)的支持。在今年1月共和党重获参议院控制权之前，她一直担任参议院情报委员会主席。
Feinstein for years has tried to beat back criticism of the program from some liberal Democrats and human rights groups who have raised questions about civilian casualties. CIA officials have assured her, she has said, that there are hardly any civilian deaths in the strikes.
多年来，范斯坦一直试图驳斥在平民伤亡方面提出疑问的一些自由派民主党人和人权组织对无人机项目的批判。她总是表示，中情局官员向她保证，袭击几乎不会造成任何平民伤亡。
“The figures we have obtained from the executive branch, which we have done our utmost to verify, confirm that the number of civilian casualties that have resulted from such strikes each year has typically been in the single digits,” Feinstein said in 2013.
范斯坦曾于2013年称，“我们从行政部门获得数据，并做了最大努力来核实它们。这些数据证实，此类袭击每年导致的平民伤亡人数一般是个位数。” 
But the recent accidental deaths of the hostages are only the latest example of how difficult it is for the CIA to know exactly whom it is killing. The White House provided a public accounting of the deaths only because the victims were Westerners. The government has never offered a detailed explanation of attacks that witnesses say killed women and children.
不过，近期这起人质意外死亡事件不过是最新的一个例子，证明中情局实难确定他们清除的到底是什么人。白宫之所以公开了该事件的相关信息，只是因为遇难者是西方人。对于那些据目击者称导致了妇孺丧生的攻击事件，政府从未予以详细说明。
The confidence Feinstein and other Democrats express about the drone program, which by most accounts has been effective in killing hundreds of al-Qaida operatives and members of other militant groups over the years, stands in sharp contrast to the criticism among lawmakers of the now defunct CIA program to capture and interrogate Qaida suspects in secret prisons.
多数言论认为，无人机项目在过去几年中有效地除掉了数百名基地组织行动人员和其他激进团体的成员。范斯坦等民主党人表现出对无人机项目颇具信心，而不少议员却又指责现已不存在的抓捕并在秘密牢房审问基地组织嫌疑人的中情局项目，这两种态度之间形成了鲜明对比。
But both programs were led by some of the same people. The CIA asked that D'Andrea's name and the names of some other top agency officials be withheld from this article, but The New York Times is publishing them because they have leadership roles in one of the government's most significant paramilitary programs and their roles are known to foreign governments and many others.
然而，这两个项目的负责人颇有重叠。中情局要求本文隐去丹德烈亚等局内高层官员的姓名，但《纽约时报》还是决定予以公开，因为他们在重要性位居前列的一个政府准军事项目中扮演领导角色，而且包括外国政府在内的很多机构知晓他们所扮演的角色。
When Feinstein was asked in a meeting with reporters in 2013 why she was so sure she was getting the truth about the drone program while she accused the CIA of lying to her about torture, she seemed surprised.
2013年，范斯坦在与记者会面时被问及，在指责中情局在严刑逼供问题上撒谎的同时，她为何又如此肯定自己获得了有关无人机项目的真相？听闻此言，她面露讶异之色。
“That's a good question, actually,” she said.
“这的确是个好问题，”她回答。
D'Andrea was a senior official in the Counterterrorism Center when the agency opened the Salt Pit, a notorious facility in Afghanistan where prisoners were tortured. His counterterrorism officers oversaw the interrogation and waterboarding of Abu Zubaydah, Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri and Khalid Shaikh Mohammed. His actions are described in the withering Senate Intelligence Committee report about torture that was released late last year, although he was not identified publicly.
中情局在阿富汗开设秘密监狱“盐坑”(Salt Pit)时，丹德烈亚是反恐中心的一名高级官员。这座牢房臭名昭著，在押人员遭到酷刑对待。他领导的反恐官员负责审讯了阿布·朱贝达(Abu Zubaydah)、阿布德·拉希姆·纳希里(Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri)和哈立德·谢赫·穆罕默德(Khalid Shaikh Mohammed)，并对他们使用了水刑。参议院情报委员会去年底公布的一份措辞严厉的酷刑报告描述了他的行为，但并未公开他的身份。
The drone program has been largely immune from the criticism in Congress that other CIA programs have attracted. In 2009, for example, when it became public that the agency had once hired the private security firm Blackwater to hunt and kill suspected terrorists, a member of Congress called D'Andrea a “murderer” during a private briefing, even though the Blackwater program had never carried out any lethal operations.
无人机项目基本上没有受到中情局其他项目在国会遭到的那种批判。比如在2009年，当中情局曾经雇佣私人安保公司黑水(Blackwater)搜寻并除掉恐怖嫌疑人的事情曝光后，一名议员在一次非公开的通报会上直呼丹德烈亚为“凶手”，尽管黑水公司的项目从未实施任何致命的行动。
D'Andrea was furious about his treatment, a former colleague recalled. But he received no similar personal attacks for his leadership of the drone program.
丹德烈亚的一名前同事回忆，他对这一说法感到非常愤怒。不过，他并没有因为领导无人机项目而受到类似的人身攻击。
The CIA launched its first drone strike in Pakistan in 2004, at a time of growing concern in the government about abuses inside the agency's detention and interrogation program. Many in Congress expressed horror at the grim details of torture carried out in the secret CIA prisons, even if some senior lawmakers had been briefed about many of the interrogation methods during the birth of the program in 2002.
中情局于2004年在巴基斯坦境内开展了首次无人机攻击行动。当时，政府内部对中情局的羁押与审讯项目实施酷刑的行为感到越来越担心。许多国会议员表示，中情局在秘密监狱实施酷刑的可怕细节令其错愕，即便一些资深议员曾在2002年中情局启动该项目期间了解了很多审讯方法。