Health officials are warning parents not to use a special device designed to help keep babies in certain positions as they sleep. The device, called a sleep positioner, has been linked to at least 13 deaths in the last 15 years, officials with two federal agencies said on Wednesday.
美国卫生部官员警告各位家长，不要使用为保持婴儿特定睡姿而设计的专门器械。两名联邦机构的官员于11月21日报告说，该器械称为防侧睡枕(sleep positioner)，在过去的15年内已导致了至少13名婴儿的死亡。
"We urge parents and caregivers to take our warning seriously and stop using these sleep positioners," Inez Tenenbaum, the chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, said in a statement.
“我们敦促家长和护理人员认真对待我们的警示，不要再使用此类防侧睡枕。”美国消费品安全委员会(Consumer Product Safety Commission)主席伊涅丝·特南鲍姆(Inez Tenenbaum)在声明中说。
The sleep positioner devices come primarily in two forms. One is a flat mat with soft bolsters on each side. The other, known as a wedge-style positioner, looks very similar but has an incline, keeping a child in a very slight upright position.
防侧睡器械主要分为两种。一种为水平垫，两侧有柔软长枕；另一种为楔形，看起来与前一种很类似，只是略有倾斜，能让婴儿保持稍稍直立的睡姿。
Makers of the devices claim that by keeping infants in a specific position as they sleep, they can prevent several conditions, including acid reflux and flat head syndrome, a deformation caused by pressure on one part of the skull. Many are also marketed to parents as a way to help reduce a child's risk of sudden infant death syndrome, or SIDS, which kills thousands of babies every year, most between the ages of 2 months and 4 months.
防侧睡枕的制造商宣称，让婴儿保持特定睡姿可以避免诸多问题，包括胃食道返流和扁头综合征——头骨一部分受压导致的头部变形。许多制造商还向家长们宣传，防侧睡枕可以帮助降低婴儿猝死综合症（SIDS: sudden infant death syndrome，每年有数以千计的婴儿因此死亡，以2-4个月大的婴儿居多）的风险。
But the devices have never been shown in studies to prevent SIDS, and they may actually raise the likelihood of sudden infant death, officials say. One of the leading risk factors for sudden infant death is placing a baby on his or her stomach at bedtime, and health officials have routinely warned parents to lay babies on their backs. They even initiated a "Back to Sleep" campaign in the 1990s, which led to a sharp reduction in sudden infant deaths.
然而，从没有任何研究显示防侧睡枕能够阻止SIDS的发生。相反，卫生管理者说，它们倒确实可能提高婴儿突然死亡的概率。致婴儿猝死的首要危险因素就是让他们趴着睡觉，而卫生部官员经常提醒家长们要让婴儿平躺着睡。他们甚至还在上世纪90年代发动了“躺着睡大觉(Back to Sleep)”运动，此举大幅度降低了婴儿猝死案例。
With the positioner devices, if an infant rolls onto the stomach, the child's mouth and nose can press up against a bolster or some other part of the device, leading to suffocation. Even if placed on the back, a child can move up or down in the positioner, "entrapping its face against a bolster or becoming trapped between the positioner and the crib side," Gail Gantt, a nurse consultant with the Food and Drug Administration, said in an e-mail. Or the child might scoot down the wedge in a way that causes the child's mouth and nose to press into the device.
如果婴儿在使用防侧睡枕时翻转成趴着的姿势，他们的嘴和鼻子就可能压在侧面的软长枕或是其他部位上，从而窒息。即使一开始是躺着睡的，他们也会在枕头里面上下移动。美国食品药品监督管理局（Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）护理顾问盖尔·甘特(Gail Gantt)在一封电子邮件中提到：“他们可能把脸陷在软长枕里，或卡在防侧睡枕和婴儿床床沿之间，”或者小孩子可能从楔形垫上头朝下滑下来，把嘴巴和鼻子压在防侧睡枕上。
"The baby's movement may also cause the positioner to flip on top of the baby, trapping the baby underneath the positioner or between the positioner and the side of the crib," she said.
“婴儿会动来动去，防侧睡枕可能翻到宝宝身上去，把宝宝卡在下面或是防侧睡枕和床沿中间，”她说。
Of the 13 babies known to have suffocated in a sleep positioner since 1997, most died after they rolled from their sides onto their stomachs. The Consumer Product Safety Commission has also received dozens of reports of babies who were placed on their sides or backs, "only to be found later in hazardous positions within or next to the product," the F.D.A. said in a statement.
自1997年起13名因防侧睡枕而窒息的婴儿中，大多数因为翻转成趴着的姿势而窒息死亡。FDA在一份声明中说，消费品安全委员会已接到十几例报告，称小孩子最初是平躺或侧躺在防侧睡枕上的，但后来被发现“正以很危险的姿势处于枕头内或旁边”。
Many baby books for new parents specifically urge against using sleep positioners, and the American Academy of Pediatrics does not support their use for SIDS prevention. Though the F.D.A. has never approved the positioners for the prevention of SIDS, it has in the past approved a number of the devices for the prevention of gastroesophageal reflux disease and flat head syndrome. But the agency said that in light of the new safety data, it believed any benefits from using the devices were outweighed by the risk of suffocation.
很多写给年轻父母的育儿书籍都特别反对使用防侧睡枕。美国儿科学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)也不支持利用防侧睡枕预防SIDS的做法。尽管FDA从未认可防侧睡枕有防止SIDS的功效，但它确实批准过一些用以预防胃食管返流疾病和扁头综合症的器械。但鉴于新的安全性数据，FDA认为防侧睡枕令婴儿窒息的风险比它能带来的任何益处都要严重得多。
As of Wednesday, the agency is explicitly advising parents to stop using sleep positioners, and it has asked manufacturers of the devices to submit clinical data showing that the benefits of their products outweigh the risk of serious harm. In addition to avoiding the devices, experts say, parents should keep things like pillows, comforters, quilts and bumpers away from their infants and their cribs. Soft bedding can increase the likelihood of a baby suffocating.
自11月21日起，FDA明确建议家长停止使用防侧睡枕，并要求制造商提供临床数据以证明使用此产品的好处大于出现严重后果的风险。除了避免此类器械，专家说，家长应该确保枕头、被褥、围垫等物品远离婴儿和婴儿床。柔软的寝具会增加婴儿窒息的风险。
"The safest crib is a bare crib," Dr. Susan Cummins, a pediatric expect with the F.D.A., said in a statement. "Always put your baby on his or her back to sleep. An easy way to remember this is to follow the ABC's of safe sleep - Alone on the Back in a bare Crib."
“最安全的围栏是‘无围栏’，”FDA儿科专家苏珊·卡明斯(Susan Cummins)医生在声明中说，“永远要让孩子平躺着睡。有种简单的记忆法：按照‘安全睡眠ABC’来做：单独、平躺、无围栏。” 