Yes, it’s true that Hillary Clinton got more votes, but he got the votes of more than 62 million people — and I am pretty sure I don’t know any of them. You can make a rude joke about Donald Trump in places like Washington and the Upper West Side of Manhattan, and be confident that nothing you say will give offense.
是的，希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的确获得了更多选票，但是他得到了超过6200万人的票——我很确定自己不认识其中任何一个人。你可以在华盛顿和曼哈顿上西区这样的地方讲一个关于唐纳德·特朗普的粗鲁笑话，并且确信这话不会造成任何冒犯。
It would be nice, I have long thought, to have an openly opinionated press as Britain does, with papers such as The Guardian in London. Instead of hiding their biases, writers and correspondents could say what they think, and readers could discount accordingly.
很久以来，我一直以为，如果我们的新闻界能像英国那样，拥有公开坚持自己观点的媒体就好了，比如伦敦的《卫报》(The Guardian)等报纸。他们的作者和记者并不隐藏偏见，可以说出自己的想法，读者也可以相应地鄙视他们的想法。
Well, since Mr. Trump became a serious possibility for president, we have had that world I longed for, and I’m not so sure I want it.
好吧，自从特朗普非常有可能成为总统以来，我们就有了那个我所渴望的世界，我却不太确定我想要它。
The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN and other establishment outlets have been brazenly, laughably hostile to Mr. Trump, in their news pages as well as their opinion sections. Maybe this hostility is justified. In fact, I think it probably is.
《纽约时报》、《华盛顿邮报》、CNN和其他权威媒体已经在他们的新闻部分对特朗普表现出肆无忌惮的、可笑的敌意，就像在“观点”版块中一样。也许这种敌意是正当的。事实上，我觉得可能是的。
But that doesn’t justify reaching out to twist stories or looking for the anti-Trump angle. Nor does it justify the open hoping — if not assuming — that something will come along to rid us of this turbulent hotelier. Impeachment is supposed to be an occasional tragic necessity, not just another tool for replacing the results of an election.
但是，歪曲报道或是寻找反特朗普角度则是不正当的。公开希望——如果不是假设——会有什么东西出现，好让我们摆脱这个失控的酒店老板，也是不正当的。弹劾应该是一种偶尔出现的、万不得已的悲剧，而不是替代选举结果的另一种工具。
When Mr. Trump won, I prepared myself for an orgy of self-criticism by the liberal media, all wondering how they missed the amazing phenomenon of Mr. Trump’s popularity. We have seen some of that, of course. But not as much as one would imagine. Instead, there has been endless vilification of the guy and speculation about how we might get rid of him.
当特朗普获胜时，我本以为会看到为自由派媒体的大量自我批评，所有人都想知道他们怎么会忽视了特朗普广受欢迎这个惊人的现象。当然，我们已经看到了一些。但不像人们想像的那么多。相反，自由派媒体上充斥着对这个家伙无休无止的诋毁，以及关于我们如何摆脱他的猜测。
All the vilification has actually numbed people’s reaction to the truly shocking possibility that Mr. Trump conspired with Russia to steal the 2016 election. It wasn’t so long ago that Alger Hiss went to jail, ostensibly for perjury but actually for slipping secret documents to the Russians.
事实上，因为所有这些诋毁，人们对特朗普与俄罗斯共谋窃取2016年选举的惊人可能性已经变得麻木了。阿尔杰·希斯(Alger Hiss)入狱并不是很久以前的事，他表面上的罪名是做伪证，但实际上是因为向俄罗斯人提供秘密文件。
Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were executed for something similar. Now we open the newspaper or turn on the TV news every day to learn of one more person who squeezed into the increasingly crowded room where the conspiracy was allegedly going on.
朱利叶斯与埃塞尔·罗森伯格(Julius and Ethel Rosenberg)夫妇也是因为类似原因被处以死刑。现在我们每一天打开报纸或是电视新闻，都会发现又有一个人加入那个愈来愈拥挤的、据说进行了密谋的房间。
Earlier this year, The New York Times allowed me to ask its readers, “Is there nothing nice you can say about the man who, after all, is our president?” The nearly 2,000 emailed responses we got in the first month were generally tongue-in-cheek, along the lines of a joke: In his awfulness, he has united the nation in disliking him. This would be a better joke if it were true.
今年早些时候，《纽约时报》同意我向读者提出一个问题：“那个人毕竟是我们的总统，你们就说不出一句关于他的好话吗？”我们在第一个里月收到的近2000封电子邮件回复大都是半开玩笑的，其中有一类笑话说：因为他太糟糕了，所以让这个国家团结一致地讨厌他。如果事实的确如此，这个笑话还能好笑一点。
Another large category was people who praised him ironically for breaking some campaign promise, such as saying he would deport the Dreamers. These contributions usually ended with the word “yet” or its equivalent. Mr. Trump is praised for having resisted (so far) the urge to fire Robert Mueller. And for having, until recently, “stopped threatening to prosecute Hillary Clinton.” And because he has “dropped (at least for the moment) his claim that his Trump Tower phones were tapped.”
还有一大类别，有人讽刺地夸赞他打破了一些竞选中的承诺，例如说他会把“梦想者”(Dreamers)驱逐出境。这些来信通常以“到目前为止”或其他同义词结束。特朗普因为（到目前为止）抑制住了解雇罗伯特·穆勒(Robert Mueller)的冲动而受到赞扬。而且因为直到最近，“都没有威胁要起诉希拉里·克林顿”而受到赞扬，还因为他“（至少暂时）停止宣称特朗普大厦的电话遭到窃听”而受到赞扬。
An alarming number of readers demanded that their subscriptions be canceled because this one pro-Trump article appeared in a daily sea of antagonism to him. Should it really count as pro-Trump to say, well, he’s done this one good thing among all the bad things? And, of course, one reader noted that Mr. Trump had revived the newspaper industry by being so distasteful.
因为每天反对特朗普的海量文章之中出现了这样一篇亲特朗普的文章，数量惊人的读者要求取消订阅。如果说他做了那么多坏事，总算也做了一件好事，那算不算是亲特朗普的言论呢？当然，有一位读者指出，特朗普因为如此令人反感，从而令报业得到了复兴。
Similarly, a writer praised the president for encouraging “a diverse group of Americans to look beyond our own, often narrow agendas and come together to fight this administration’s attempts to institutionalize injustice at every turn.” I suppose, if you were Donald Trump, you could read that as a compliment.
同样，一位作者赞扬总统促使“一群多样化的美国人超越我们自身往往很狭隘的议程，团结起来，共同打击这届行政当局屡屡将不公正制度化的尝试。”我想，如果你是唐纳德·特朗普，你可以将之视为赞美。
A few participants were overtaken by events. “I did like the bombing of the Syrian airfield,” one writer cheerily conceded. She said this reflected the president’s willingness to “draw a line.” Unfortunately, Mr. Trump (with Vladimir Putin’s help) erased that line in the weeks between when the writer wrote us and now.
一些参与者被事件打动。“我确实喜欢对叙利亚机场的轰炸，”一位作者愉快地承认。她说，这表明了总统愿意“划出界限”。不幸的是，从这位作者给我们写信到现在的几周期间，特朗普（在弗拉基米尔·普京[Vladimir Putin]帮助之下）抹去了这条界限。
A suspicious number of people wrote in to praise President Trump’s choice of James Mattis as defense secretary. The Mattis fan club is either very large or very well organized. Which is good because the Defense Department could use one that is both.
有数量可疑的人来信赞扬特朗普选择詹姆斯·马蒂斯(James Mattis)担任国防部长。马蒂斯粉丝俱乐部要么规模很大，要么就是组织得非常好。这是好事，因为国防部需要一个两者兼备的群体。
I couldn’t tell if some entries were joking or not. “Before Trump,” one person wrote, somewhat mysteriously, “I didn’t know anything about the awesomeness of Maxine Waters.” Maxine Waters has been awesome for many years, but is she supposed to be happy that opposing President Trump has given her a higher profile? Maybe so.
我不知道一些来信是不是在开玩笑。“没有特朗普，”一个人有点神秘地写道，“我都不知道玛克欣·沃特斯(Maxine Waters)真的很棒。”马克西姆·沃特斯很棒很多年了，不过她应该高兴地看到，反对特朗普总统令她得到了更高的声望吗？也许是这样。
Another ambiguous one: “I admit I find Donald Trump charismatic, and he has an admirable sense of comic timing.” And, he “is very skilled at keeping his name in the news. He has also succeeded in business and politics with what appears to be very few intellectual gifts.”
还有一封意义含糊的来信写道：“我承认我觉得唐纳德·特朗普是有感染力的，他讲笑话的节奏感令人钦佩。”而且，他“非常善于让自己的名字持续出现在新闻里。在天生的智力平平的情况下，他能在商业和政治方面取得成功。”
Mr. Trump’s ethnicity pleased one person, but with a barb. “His mother is from Scotland,” and yet “his teeth seem good.” This despite the fact that “the man appreciates quality baked goods.” And “for a fat guy, he doesn’t sweat much.” Then of course there’s his hair. “He makes me feel good that I have the head of hair that I do,” one braggart wrote, while another simply expressed admiration: “He has an amazing comb-over.”
有个人赞美特朗普的血统，但是附带点讽刺。“他的母亲来自苏格兰”，然而“他的牙齿似乎很好”。尽管事实上“这个男人喜爱优质烘焙食品”，然而“虽然他很胖，但他不怎么爱出汗”。当然还有他的头发。“他让我对自己的发型感觉良好，”一个自夸者写道，而另一个人只是表示赞赏：“他的遮秃发型非常赞。”
I could go on quoting for quite a while. “He doesn’t have a dog, which is a service to all dogs.” But I think by now we’ve made our point. Or rather, we’ve supplied enough material for anyone who wishes to make his or her own point.
我可以继续引用不少来信，比如“他不养狗，这对所有的狗来说都是好事。”但是我认为到目前为止，我们已经形成了我们的观点。或者说，我们已经为任何希望自己形成观点的人提供了足够的材料。
As my research assistant in this project, Izzy Rode, observed, the vitriol tended to weaken as the weeks went on — vitriol against Mr. Trump, against The New York Times, against me. This is a common phenomenon on the internet. The rage generally isn’t sustainable, and inevitably starts to get repetitive.
我这个项目的研究助理伊齐·洛德(Izzy Rode)观察到，几个星期以来，针对特朗普、针对《纽约时报》与针对我的辛辣讽刺出现了减弱的趋势。这是互联网上的普遍现象。愤怒通常难以持续，而且不可避免地开始出现重复。
Gosh, you know really he’s not so bad. No, wait, he’s pretty bad. And I don’t say that about just anyone.
天哪，你知道他真的并不是那么糟糕。不，等等，他确实很糟糕。这种话我可是不会随便说的。