LONDON — The Finnish telecommunications company Nokia said on Wednesday that it had agreed to an all-share takeover of Alcatel-Lucent that valued its French rival at 15.6 billion euros, or about $16.6 billion.
伦敦——芬兰电信公司诺基亚(Nokia)周三表示，已同意以全股票方式收购法国竞争对手阿尔卡特朗讯(Alcatel-Lucent)，对后者估值为156亿欧元（约合1027亿元人民币）。
The combined company is expected to become the world’s second-largest telecom equipment manufacturer behind Ericsson of Sweden, with global revenues totaling $27 billion and operations spread across Asia, Europe and North America.
合并后的公司将成为世界第二大电信设备制造商，仅次于瑞典的爱立信(Ericsson)，公司全球总营收将达到270亿美元（约合1670亿元人民币），业务遍布亚洲、欧洲和北美。
The companies are betting that, by joining forces, they can better compete against Chinese and European rivals bidding to provide telecom hardware and software to the world’s largest carriers, including AT&T and Verizon in the United States, Vodafone and Orange in Europe, and SoftBank in Japan.
两家公司确信，合并后它们可以更好地与中国和欧洲的对手竞争，竞相为世界上最大的一些电信运营商提供硬件和软件。这些运营商包括美国的AT&T和威瑞森(Verizon)，欧洲的沃达丰(Vodafone)和Orange，以及日本的软银(SoftBank)。
The announcement came after the companies had said they were in advanced talks over a deal, which would represent the latest in a string of mergers in the fast-consolidating telecom sector.
声明发出前，两家公司曾表示正在为一项交易进行最后阶段的谈判。这项交易将会是电信行业急剧整合的大潮中最新的一次合并。
Nokia said that it had offered 0.55 of a new share for each Alcatel-Lucent share, roughly a one-third premium to the company’s stock price before the news of a potential deal was first announced.
诺基亚表示，其已提出以新发行股的每0.55股兑换一股阿尔卡特朗讯股，约高出关于潜在合并的消息公布之前朗讯股价达三分之一。
Nokia’s chief executive, Rajeev Suri, would take over the combined company, which expects the restructuring to save about $1 billion a year starting in 2019.
诺基亚首席执行官拉吉夫·苏瑞(Rajeev Suri)将执掌合并后的公司。预计从2019年开始，重组将为公司每年节省约10亿美元。
“Together, Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia intend to lead in next-generation network technology and services,” Mr. Suri said. “We will have a strong presence in every part of the world, including leading positions in the United States and China.”
“阿尔卡特朗讯和诺基亚一起，意在引领下一代网络科技与服务，”苏瑞说。“我们将在世界上每一个地方都拥有可观的市场占有率，包括在美国和中国也拥有领先地位。”
In early trading in Europe, shares of Nokia rose 3.1 percent while shares of Alcatel-Lucent fell 10.9 percent.
欧洲早盘，诺基亚股价上涨了3.1%，阿尔卡特朗讯下跌了10.9%。