During the 1960 presidential election, the writer Norman Mailer saw in John F. Kennedy the embodiment of the “hipster” values he believed could revitalize a stagnant America. Consequently, Mailer penned a lyrical 14,000-word paean to Kennedy entitled “Superman Comes to the Supermarket,” published in Esquire that same year. This week, Taschen has reissued Mailer’s iconic essay — one of the early masterpieces of so-called “New Journalism” — in a beautifully illustrated new edition ($150).In the 1960s and ’70s, writers like Mailer, Hunter S. Thompson, Gay Talese, Joan Didion and others began to imbue long-form reportage with certain elements previously reserved for fiction: plot, narrative thrust and, most importantly, depth of character. “Superman Comes to the Supermarket” is the first in a forthcoming series from Taschen that will celebrate, in words and images, that movement, with editions of classic pieces like Gay Talese’s “Frank Sinatra Has a Cold,” James Baldwin’s “The Fire Next Time” and Tom Wolfe’s “The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.”
在1960年的总统选举中，作家诺曼·梅勒(Norman Mailer)认为约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)是“时髦人士”价值观的化身，他认为这种价值观能重振停滞不前的美国。所以梅勒为肯尼迪写了一篇长达1.4万字的热情颂歌，名叫《超人来到超级市场》(Superman Comes to the Supermarket)，当年发表在《绅士》(Esquire)杂志上。本周，塔森出版社(Taschen)再次出版了梅勒的这篇标志性长文，它是所谓“新新闻主义”的早期杰作之一。新版本配有精美插图（150美元）。20世纪六七十年代，梅勒、亨特·S·汤普森(Hunter S. Thompson)、盖伊·塔利斯(Gay Talese)和琼·迪迪昂(Joan Didion)等作家开始在长篇报道中注入某些之前仅在小说中出现的元素：情节、叙述性要点，以及最重要的人物深度。塔森出版社即将出版系列图书，通过文字和图片歌颂那场运动，《超人来到超级市场》是第一本，后续经典作品包括盖伊·塔利斯的《弗兰克·辛纳屈感冒了》(Frank Sinatra Has a Cold)、詹姆斯·鲍德温(James Baldwin)的《下次是火》(The Fire Next Time)以及汤姆·沃尔夫(Tom Wolfe)的《刺激的吸毒考验》(The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test)。
Like many of these works, “Superman Comes to the Supermarket” is most remarkable for its artistry rather than for its argument. Kennedy, Mailer insisted, was nothing short of an existential hero for the age, a man who could resuscitate the “submerged river of untapped, ferocious, lonely and romantic desires” and, with it, the “dream life of the nation.” That sentiment proved to be romantic delusion, but the beauty of Mailer’s prose endures.
和大多数这类作品一样，《超人来到超级市场》的卓越之处在其艺术性而非观点。梅勒坚持认为，肯尼迪无异于真实的时代英雄，可以复活“激烈、孤独和浪漫的欲望潜流”，从而实现“这个国家梦想的生活”。结果证明，这种情绪是一种浪漫的幻觉，不过梅勒文章的优美具有长久的魅力。