Guenter Grass, the German novelist, social critic and Nobel Prize winner whom many called his country's moral conscience but who stunned Europe when he revealed in 2006 that he had been a member of the Waffen-SS during World War II, died Monday in the northern German city of Luebeck, which had been his home for decades. He was 87.
德国小说家、社会评论家、诺贝尔奖获得者君特·格拉斯(Guenter Grass)曾多次被誉为德国的良心，但在2006年，他透露自己“二战”期间曾经加入党卫军，令整个欧洲都为之震惊。他于周一在居住了数十年的德国北部城市吕贝克逝世，享年87岁。
His longtime publisher, Gerhard Steidl, said that he learned late Sunday that Grass had been hospitalized after falling seriously ill very quickly. The cause of death was not announced.
与他长期合作的出版商格哈德·史泰德(Gerhard Steidl)称，自己于上周日得知，格拉斯身体状况急转直下后住院治疗。他的死因并未宣布。
Steidl said he drank his final schnapps with Grass eight days ago while they were working together on his most recent book, which he described as a “literary experiment” fusing poetry with prose. It is scheduled to be published in the summer.
史泰德说，八天前，他还曾最后一次与格拉斯共饮杜松子酒，两人正筹备出版格拉斯的最新著作，格拉斯称之为“文学实验”，它融合了诗歌与散文，计划于今夏出版。
“He was fully concentrated on his work until the last moment,” Steidl said.
“直到最后一刻，他还全心扑在工作上，”史泰德说。
Grass was hardly the only member of his generation who obscured the facts of his wartime life. But because he was a pre-eminent public intellectual who had pushed Germans to confront the ugly aspects of their history, his confession that he had falsified his own biography shocked readers and led some to view his life's work in a different light.
格拉斯不是同代人中唯一一个掩饰自己在“二战”期间行为的人。但他是一位杰出的公共知识分子，曾经推动德国直面自己历史上的丑恶。因此当他坦白自己曾篡改自己的档案之后，读者们不禁为之震惊，有些人开始以不同的眼光来审视他的作品。
Grass came under further scrutiny in 2012 after publishing a poem criticizing Israel for its hostile language toward Iran over its nuclear program. He expressed revulsion at the idea that Israel might be justified in attacking Iran over a perceived nuclear threat and said that such a prospect “endangers the already fragile world peace.”
2012年，格拉斯又出现在公众视野之下，他发表了一首诗歌，批评以色列对伊朗核试验恶语相加。有观点认为，如果伊朗构成核威胁，以色列有理由进攻伊朗，格拉斯对此表示反感，声称这样的前景“威胁着已经岌岌可危的世界和平”。
The poem created an international controversy and prompted a personal attack from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Grass later said that he had not meant to criticize the country, but only its government.
这首诗在国际范围内引发了争论，以色列总理本杰明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)以个人身份对它进行抨击。后来格拉斯说，自己并不是要批评这个国家，只是想批评以色列政府。
He was propelled to the forefront of postwar literature in 1959, with the publication of his wildly inventive masterpiece, “The Tin Drum.” Critics hailed the audacious sweep of his literary imagination. A severed horse's head swarming with hungry eels, a criminal hiding beneath a peasant woman's layered skirts and a child who shatters windows with his high-pitched voice are among the memorable images that made “The Tin Drum” a worldwide triumph.
1959年，格拉斯出版了极具巧思的杰作《铁皮鼓》(The Tin Drum)，从而被推上战后文学的第一线。评论家们纷纷赞美书中大量大胆的文学想像。烈马的头颅里挤满了饥饿的鳗鱼、罪犯藏匿在农妇的裙子底下、一个孩子用高音震碎窗子……《铁皮鼓》中充满这种令人难忘的意象，在全世界大获成功。
In awarding Grass the Nobel Prize in 1999, the Swedish Academy praised him for embracing “the enormous task of reviewing contemporary history by recalling the disavowed and the forgotten: the victims, losers and lies that people wanted to forget because they had once believed in them.” It described “The Tin Drum” as “one of the enduring literary works of the 20th century.”
1999年，瑞典学院将诺贝尔文学奖授予格拉斯，称他“回忆那些被否认与被遗忘的东西，以此承担了回顾当代史的重大任务：那些牺牲品、失败者与谎言。人们想要遗忘它们，只因他们一度相信它们。”瑞典学院还称《铁皮鼓》是“20世纪长盛不衰的文学作品之一”。
Grass was a playwright, essayist, short-story writer, poet, sculptor and printmaker as well as a novelist, but it was as a social critic that he gained the most notoriety, campaigning for disarmament and broad social change.
除了长篇小说，格拉斯还创作剧本、散文、短篇小说和诗歌，此外还创作雕塑和版画。在社会批评领域，他一直为裁军和更广泛的社会变革而斗争，这却令他获得恶名。
But ultimately, his uncompromising anti-militarism and his warnings that a unified Germany might once again threaten world peace led some of his countrymen to criticize him as a pedantic moralist who had lost touch with real life.
他持有毫不妥协的反军国主义立场，并警告人们，统一后的德国仍然有可能对世界和平构成威胁，许多德国人因此批评他是迂腐的道德主义者，完全与现实生活脱节。
He revealed his Nazi past himself, days before a memoir, “Peeling the Onion,” was to be published, bringing on accusations of hypocrisy. Grass had long said that he had been a “flakhelfer” during the war, one of many German youths pressed to serve in relatively innocent jobs like guarding anti-aircraft batteries. But in an interview with the newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine, he admitted that he had in fact been a member of the elite Waffen-SS, which had perpetrated horrific crimes.
在回忆录《剥洋葱》(Peeling the Onion)出版几天前，他透露了自己曾加入纳粹军队的历史，令许多人指责他是伪君子。格拉斯一直声称，自己在战争期间是“防空辅助员”，许多德国年轻人都被迫做过这种相对来说比较无辜的工作，就是看管地对空大炮之类。但在接受《法兰克福汇报》(Frankfurter Allgemeine)采访时，格拉斯承认，自己其实曾经是精英军队党卫军的一员，这个军队在战争中犯下了许多恐怖的罪行。
“It was a weight on me,” said Grass, then 78. “My silence over all these years is one of the reasons I wrote the book. It had to come out in the end.”
时年78岁的格拉斯说：“这是我心头的重负，多年来我一直对此保持沉默，这也是我写这本书的原因之一，最终它必须大白于天下。”
Weakness and Militarism
弱点与军国主义
An intense anti-nationalist, Grass viewed his country with emotions that could flare into fear and hatred. Some critics said the purposely small and weak Oskar symbolized what he wanted for Germany.
格拉斯激烈地反对民族主义，他对祖国的看法带着恐惧与憎恨的情感。有些评论家说，他笔下矮小孱弱的奥斯卡象征着他希望德国成为的样子。
In the 1960s and '70s, much of Grass' work dealt with the German themes of disillusionment, the militaristic past and the challenges of building a post-Nazi society. His greatest successes of the period were “Cat and Mouse” (1961), about a man whose unusually large Adam's apple forever sets him apart from the rest of humanity, and the Joycean “Dog Years” (1963), which analyzes three decades of German history and suggests that the country has not progressed much. These two novels, together with “The Tin Drum,” make up what Grass called his “Danzig Trilogy.”
在20世纪60年代到70年代之间，格拉斯的大部分作品都与德国的幻灭、军国主义的过去，乃至重建后纳粹社会所面临的挑战有关。这段时期，他最成功的作品包括1961年的《猫与鼠》(Cat and Mouse)，讲述一个有巨大喉结的男人永远离弃了人类。此外还有1963年乔伊斯风格的《狗年月》(Dog Years)，阐述德国三十年来的历史，认为这个国家并没有取得多少进步。格拉斯把这两部小说与《铁皮鼓》放在一起，合称为自己的“但泽三部曲”。
While he was writing these works, Grass also campaigned and wrote speeches for Willy Brandt, who was one of West Germany's dominant politicians from 1957, when he was elected mayor of Berlin, to 1974, when he stepped down after five years as the country's first Social Democratic chancellor.
在创作这些小说的同时，格莱斯还帮助威利·勃兰特(Willy Brandt)从事竞选活动，为他撰写讲稿。勃兰特于1957年当选柏林市长，自那以后便成为西德的重要政治家之一，后成为德国首任社会民主党总理，五年任期届满后，于1974年退休。
Grass later demonstrated against the deployment of U.S. nuclear missiles in Germany, denounced the German arms industry and quit the Social Democratic Party, the Berlin Academy of Arts and the Lutheran Church, which he had joined as a teenager after renouncing Roman Catholicism. He criticized both the Lutheran and the Catholic hierarchies as “moral accomplices” of Nazism.
格拉斯后来亦曾反对美国在德国部署核导弹，公开指责德国的军工业，并退出社会民主党、柏林艺术学院与路德教会——青少年时期，他曾退出罗马天主教该教会。他批评路德教会与天主教的等级制度是纳粹主义“在道德上的帮凶”。
He was a tireless defender of Fidel Castro's government in Cuba and embraced Nicaragua's left-oriented Sandinista government in the 1980s. Yet he described himself as an opponent of revolution.
他孜孜不倦地为菲德尔·卡斯特罗(Fidel Castro)的古巴政权辩护，支持尼加拉瓜80年代的左翼桑地诺(Sandinista)政权。但他却说自己反对革命。
He denounced repression in Soviet-bloc countries and attacked governments run by religious fundamentalists, but his criticism was often accompanied by denunciations of Western and especially German capitalism. In opposing the first Persian Gulf war, for example, he focused his anger on his own country, accusing German companies of arming the Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein.
他谴责苏联盟国内的压迫现象，批评那些由宗教原教旨主义者把持的政权，但他的批评也经常伴随着对西方社会，特别是对德国资本主义的指责。比如说，在批评第一次波斯湾战争时，他的怒火主要指向自己的国家，批评德国公司向伊拉克独裁者萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)出售武器。
“Once again, it is Germans who are designing and producing poison gas factories,” he said in an interview. “This is where you really see the German danger. It isn't nationalism, and it isn't reawakened neo-Nazis. It is simply the unchecked lust for profit.”
“德国人又一次开始设计和建造毒气工厂了，”他在接受采访时说，“你从中可以看到德国真正的危险性。这不是民族主义，也不是再度觉醒的新纳粹，而是对利益毫无节制的追求。”
Many of Grass' books are phantasmagorical mixtures of fact and fantasy, some of them inviting comparison with the Latin American style known as magical realism. His own name for this style was “broadened reality.”
格拉斯的许多作品将事实与幻想飘忽地融为一体，不免被人们拿来与拉丁美洲魔幻现实主义风格相对比。他自己将这种风格称之为“被拓宽的现实”。
“Guenter Grass's books present surprising and extremely contradictory combinations of opposites,” the Russian-German writer Lev Kopelev wrote in an essay on the occasion of Grass's 65th birthday. “Minutely detailed presentations of real things and scientifically precise descriptions of historical events are melted together with fairy tales, legends, myths, fables, poems and wild fantasies to produce his own special poetical world.”
“君特·格拉斯的著作中，对立的事物以令人惊讶而又极端的矛盾方式结合在一起，”格拉斯65岁生日之际，俄裔德国作家列夫·科尔别涅夫(Lev Kopelev)在一篇文章中写道，“对真实事物精密细致的呈现，乃至对历史事件科学般精确的描述融合为童话、传奇、神话、寓言、诗歌与疯狂的幻想，创造出他独有的诗意世界。”
Grass was renowned for his wide-ranging tastes. He was an epicure who favored hearty peasant food, and his work carries the aroma of home-cooked dishes like smoked goose breast and roast pork with sauerkraut and caraway seeds.
格拉斯的兴趣之广也颇为著名。他热衷美食，喜欢丰盛的农民食物，作品中也饱含家乡食品的芬芳，诸如烟熏鹅胸、德国泡菜与香菜籽烤猪肉等。
His fascination with animals was reflected in book titles like “The Flounder” and “From the Diary of a Snail.” He was a jazz lover, once worked as a jazz musician, and collaborated on “O Susanna,” an illustrated book on jazz, blues and gospel music published in 1959.
他对动物的热爱体现在《比目鱼》(The Flounder)、《蜗牛日记》(From the Diary of a Snail)等书中。他还喜欢爵士乐，一度当过爵士乐手，与人合著过一本关于爵士、布鲁斯与福音音乐的绘本《哦，苏珊娜》(O Susanna)，该书于1959年出版。
Some critics hoped Grass would produce a monumental novel encompassing all the great themes that have tormented Germany through its history and felt betrayed when he did not. Many of his later works were met with both critical and popular indifference.
有些评论家希望格拉斯写出一部不朽的小说，内容涵盖所有历史上折磨着德国的伟大题材，但他并未如此，这令评论家们感觉遭到背叛。格拉斯不少晚年作品都是既不叫好也不叫座。
The dominant German literary critic during most of his career, Marcel Reich-Ranicki, who died in 2013, called him “greatly overrated.” Reich-Ranicki once appeared on the cover of the magazine Der Spiegel ripping apart a copy of a Grass book he especially loathed, “Too Far Afield,” a 1995 novel centered on two men in their early 70s roaming Berlin after the fall of the Berlin Wall as they ponder Germany's past and present.
2013年逝世的德国文学评论泰斗马塞尔·莱西-拉尼茨基(Marcel Reich-Ranicki)说格拉斯“被大大高估了”。有一期《明镜周刊》(Der Spiegel)就是以莱西-拉尼茨基为封面，手里把他最讨厌的一本格拉斯的书撕成两半——那是格拉斯1995年的小说《旷野》，讲述两个刚满70岁的男人在柏林漫游，思索德国的过去与现在。
After the wall was breached in 1989, Grass argued against German unification on the ground that a people responsible for the Holocaust had forfeited the right to live together in one nation. He suggested that East and West Germany remain separate for a time and then join a loose confederation of German-speaking states.
1989年柏林墙倒塌后，格拉斯反对两德统一，理由是一个应为大屠杀负责的民族没有权力重新成为一个国家。他认为，东德与西德应保持一段时间的分离状态，之后成为一个以德语为官方语言的松散联盟。
“Auschwitz speaks against even a right to self-determination that is enjoyed by all other peoples, because one of the preconditions for the horror, besides other, older urges, was a strong and united Germany,” he said in a 1990 speech. “We cannot get by Auschwitz. We should not even try, as great as the temptation is, because Auschwitz belongs to us, is branded into our history, and — to our benefit! — has made possible an insight that could be summarized as, `Now we finally know ourselves.' ”
“奥斯维辛甚至可以抵消其他人民都拥有的民族自决权，因为除了其他古老的理由，缔造一个统一而强大的德国，正是造成大屠杀的理由之一，”1990年，他在演讲中说。“我们无法摆脱奥斯维辛，我们甚至不应该做此尝试，尽管这种诱惑非常之大。因为奥斯维辛属于我们，它是我们历史中的烙印。而且——这对我们有好处——它令我们可以得到这样一种领悟，简而言之就是‘现在我们终于了解了自己。’”
A Character as a Nation
国民性
Guenter Wilhelm Grass came of age on a continent torn by hatred. He was born in Danzig on Oct. 16, 1927, to a German father and a mother who was a Kashubian, a Slavic ethnic group with its own language and traditions. Danzig, now the Polish city of Gdansk, was then a free city under the control of the League of Nations, but its population was mostly German and loyal to the Reich. It was the first territory seized by the Nazis.
君特·威廉·格拉斯成年之际，欧洲大陆正深陷仇恨之中。他于1927年10月16日出生在但泽，父亲是德国人，母亲是卡舒比人，这是一个斯拉夫民族，有自己的语言和传统。但泽如今属于波兰，名为格但斯克，当时是一个自由城市，由国际联盟管辖，但居民主要是德国人，亦忠于德国王室。那里是纳粹占领的第一块领土。
The author and critic Morris Dickstein wrote of the city: “One of the world's most frequently besieged and contested cities (as Grass loves to emphasize), Danzig during the 1930s was a symbol of Germany's lost territories and a focus of Nazi agitation. By the end of the war it was buried in rubble with all its German population driven out. It is a truism to say that except for Southerners like Faulkner, who inherited the consequences of the Civil War, U.S. writers have a relatively undeveloped sense of history. But even among Europeans, Grass was well situated to learn how history buffets and battles local dreams and individual lives.”
作家兼评论家莫里斯·迪克斯坦(Morris Dickstein)曾经这样描写过这座城市：“但泽是世界上最常被占领、最常被争夺的城市之一（格拉斯也乐于强调这一点），20世纪30年代，这里是德国失去的领土的象征，纳粹经常以这里作为煽动手段。到‘二战’结束时，这里又成了一片废墟，所有的德国人口都被驱逐出去。众所周知，除了福克纳(Faulkner)笔下的南方反映了南北战争后的影响，美国作家几乎没有什么历史感。但即便在欧洲人当中，格拉斯也格外能了解历史是如何在本地人的梦想与个人生活之中产生斗争和冲突。”
Grass' marriage in 1954 to Anna Margareta Schwarz, a Swiss dancer, ended in divorce in 1978. He is survived by his second wife, Ute Grunert, an organist; four children from his first marriage, Laura, Bruno, Franz and Raoul; two stepsons from his second marriage, Malte and Hans; two other children, Helene and Nele; and 18 grandchildren.
格拉斯于1954年与瑞士舞蹈家玛格丽特·施瓦兹(Margareta Schwarz)结婚，两人于1978年离婚。他身后在世的亲人还包括他的第二任妻子尤塔·格伦奈特(Ute Grunert)；他与第一任妻子的四个孩子：劳拉、布鲁诺、弗兰兹与拉奥尔；两个第二任妻子所生的的儿子：马耳他和汉斯，以及他的另外两个孩子，海伦和尼尔；以及18个孙辈。
Grass found defenders among his American friends. One was the novelist John Irving, who assailed the “predictably sanctimonious dismantling” of Grass' reputation “from the cowardly standpoint of hindsight.”
格拉斯的美国朋友们经常为他声辩。其中就有小说家约翰·欧文(John Irving)，他抨击那些对格拉斯名誉的诋毁是“老一套的假正经”，是“懦夫的事后聪明”。
“You remain a hero to me, both as a writer and a moral compass,” Irving wrote, adding Grass' courage was heightened by the truth
“无论从作家的角度还是从道德准则的角度而言，你一直都是我的英雄，”欧文写道。他还说，真相进一步证明了格拉斯的勇气。
Grass said he was “not a pessimist, but a skeptic.” He vigorously rejected the view that artists should devote themselves to creating rather than agitating. That view, he once said, leads to a self-censorship that delights “the powers of church and state.”
格拉斯说自己“不是悲观主义者，而是怀疑主义者”。他坚决反对那种艺术家应当致力于创作，不应进行激烈论辩的观点。他说，这个观点会导致自我审查，只会令“教堂与国家的掌权者”感到欣喜。
Yet he said he rued the many years in which he was unable to speak the full truth about himself. “The brief inscription meant for me reads: `I kept silent,' ” Grass wrote in his memoir.
然而他也说，多年来他一直未能说出关于自己的全部真相，他对此感到深深后悔。他在回忆录中写道“我简短的墓志铭应当是：‘我保持了沉默’。”