BEIJING — As China basks in its first Nobel Prize in science, few places seem as elated, or bewildered, by the honor as the China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences.
北京——中国沉浸在第一次荣获诺贝尔自然科学奖项的喜悦中，而中国中医科学院对此事的兴奋或者困惑之情，是其他地方所不能比拟的。
Located on a shady street in the Old City, the academy is spread over a city block and welcomes visitors with an incongruous juxtaposition: a six-foot high quotation from Chairman Mao facing bronze statues of gowned doctors from antiquity who devised esoteric theories to heal the human body.
中医科学院坐落在旧城区一条阴暗的街道上，占据了一个街区，它以一种不协调的共存感欢迎着来访者：近三米高的毛主席语录，正对着古代医生身着长袍的铜像。这些医生提出了一些治病救人的深奥理论。
These contrasts are part of a bigger, century-long debate in China that has been renewed by the award on Monday to one of the academy’s retired researchers, Tu Youyou, for extracting the malaria-fighting compound Artemisinin from the plant Artemisia annua. It was the first time China had won a Nobel Prize in a scientific discipline.
这种对比是长达一个世纪的大型辩论中的一个组成部分。上周一，该院退休研究人员屠呦呦因为从植物黄花蒿(Artemisia annua)中提取了抗疟疾的化合物青蒿素，为中国赢得了首个科学领域的诺贝尔奖项。
Traditionalists say the award, in the “physiology or medicine” category, shows the value of Chinese medicine, even if it is based on a very narrow part of this tradition.
传统人士说，这个“生理学或医学”奖项也体现了中医的价值，尽管该成果仅仅基于中医的一个狭窄领域。
“I feel happiness and sorrow,” said Liu Changhua, a professor of history at the academy. “I’m happy that the drug has saved lives, but if this is the path that Chinese medicine has to take in the future, I am sad.”
“我亦喜亦忧，”中医科学院教授柳长华说。“我很高兴这种药物挽救了生命，但如果这是中医未来的必走之路，我觉得很悲伤。”
The reason, he said, is that Dr. Tu’s methods were little different from those used by Western drug companies that examine traditional pharmacopoeia around the world looking for new drugs.
他说，这是因为屠呦呦的方法，与西方制药企业从全球各地的传统药典中寻找新药的方法，几乎没有差异。
In fact, in its award, the Nobel committee specifically said it was not honoring Chinese medicine, even though Artemisia has been in continuous use for centuries to fight malaria and other fevers, and even though Dr. Tu said she figured out the extraction techniques by reading classical works. Instead, it said it was rewarding Dr. Tu for the specific scientific procedures she used to extract the active ingredient and create a chemical drug.
事实上，在宣布奖项时，诺贝尔委员会已经明确表示该奖项不是授予中医的，尽管中国人几百年来以来一直使用蒿属植物来医治疟疾和其他发热症状，尽管屠呦呦说自己是通过阅读古籍找到了萃取方法。诺贝尔委员会表示，屠呦呦获奖是因为她使用特定的科学程序来提取活性成分，并且开发出了一种化学药物。
But the most sophisticated part of Chinese medicine, Dr. Liu said, involves formulas of 10 to 20 herbs or minerals that a practitioner adjusts weekly after a consultation with a patient. And yet almost no research has been done on how these formulas actually interact with the body, he said. Instead, the government has poured money into finding another Artemisinin — with no luck.
但柳长华表示，中医最精妙的地方是，医生与病人讨论病情后，每周都会调整由10到20种药草或矿物组成的药方。不过他说，这些药方与人体之间实际的相互作用，几乎还没有过研究。政府投入了大量资金寻找另一种青蒿素，不过并未成功。
“Are we truly respecting this cultural heritage?” Dr. Liu said. “When we think Chinese medicine needs to be modernized and the path it shall go down must be like Tu Youyou’s path, I think it is a disrespect.”
“我们真的尊重这种文化遗产吗？”柳长华说。“当我们认为中药需要现代化的时候，中药的发展路子要像屠呦呦一样，我认为这是一种不尊重。”
But many Chinese think it should not be respected at all. Scientists like He Zuoxiu, a member of the prestigious Chinese Academy of Sciences, say that the ancient pharmacopoeia should be mined, but the underlying theories that identified these herbs should have been discarded long ago.
但很多中国人认为这种传统，根本不应该尊重。包括享有盛誉的中国科学院院士何祚庥在内的科学家就表示，应该发掘古代方剂，但鉴别这些草药的基础理论早就应该摈弃了。
“I think for the future development of Chinese medicine, people should abandon its medical theory and focus more on researching the value of herbs with a modern scientific approach,” Dr. He said in an interview.
 “我认为对中医未来的发展，人们应该弃医炼药，就是抛开中医理论，更注重用现代科学途径来研究药草的价值，”何祚庥在接受采访时说。
These radically different views on Chinese medicine go back at least a century, and get to the heart of how modern China sees itself.
有关中医的这些针锋相对的观点至少要追溯到一个世纪前。问题的核心是现代中国如何看待自己。
After a series of lost wars and national humiliations, Chinese reformers and revolutionaries began jettisoning almost everything from the country’s long past: its political and religious systems; its architecture and urban planning; its national dress and its lunar calendar.
在经历了一系列的战败和民族耻辱后，中国的改革和革命人士开始摈弃几乎所有源自漫长历史的东西：政治和宗教制度、建筑和城市规划、民族服饰和阴历历法。
Traditional medicine came in for especially harsh criticism. Some of the country’s most famous writers, like Lu Xun, Lao She, and Ba Jin, pilloried it as exemplifying everything wrong with the country. Its theories were obscure, its outcomes unproven, and most of all it was “unscientific” in a country that was beginning to worship science as the cure to all ills.
传统医学受到了尤为严厉的抨击。中国一些最著名的作家，如鲁迅、老舍和巴金，均把它当做代表中国所有问题的一个典型而加以抨击。在一个开始把科学奉为万灵丹的国家，中医理论晦涩，效果难以证实，且大部分内容都“不科学”。
“Everyone at that time agreed that Chinese medicine had no future,” said Paul Unschuld, a historian of Chinese medicine at the Charité Hospital in Berlin. “Ideas like yin-yang, the Five Elements — all of that was considered backwards.”
“当时所有人都一致认为中医没有前途，”柏林夏里特医院(Charité Hospital)的中医历史学者文树德(Paul Unschuld)说。“阴阳五行等概念，通通被认为是落后的。”
When the Communists took over China in 1949, however, the country had few Western hospitals. A few years later, Mao Zedong declared that “Chinese medicine and pharmacology are a great treasure house.” The praise, though, came with a caveat: It must modernize. That meant setting up traditional Chinese hospitals, schools and research facilities like the academy in Beijing.
然而，共产党在1949年执政时，中国几乎没有西医医院。几年后，毛泽东宣布，“中国医药是一个伟大的宝库。”但与这一赞誉一同到来的还有告诫：中医必须现代化。这意味着要成立中医院、学校，以及像北京的中国中医科学院这样的研究机构。
But money has flowed overwhelmingly toward Western medicine. In the Mao era, rural health care workers — “barefoot doctors” — were often traditional practitioners, which raised the profile of Chinese medicine. After Mao’s death and with growing prosperity, the government doubled down on Western medicine.
但资金却大量流向了西医。在毛泽东时代，被称作“赤脚医生”的农村医疗工作者常常是中医，这一点提升了中医的声望。毛泽东去世后，随着国家日渐繁荣，政府更是对西医寄予厚望。
Today, China has 1.1 million certified doctors of Western medicine, versus 186,947 traditional practitioners. It has 23,095 hospitals, 2,889 of which specialize in Chinese medicine.
如今，中国有110万名西医执业医生，而中医只有186947名。在全国的23095家医院中，只有2889家中医医院，《2013中国卫生统计年鉴》显示。
“It’s part of the nation, but the nation of China defines itself as a modern nation, which is tied very much to science,” said Volker Scheid, an anthropologist at the University of Westminster in London. “So this causes a conflict.”
“它是这个国家的一部分，但中国又把自己定义成了一个与科学联系得非常紧密的现代国家，”伦敦威斯敏斯特大学(University of Westminster)的人类学者蒋熙德(Volker Scheid)说。“所以就造成了冲突。”
The conundrum was on display Friday at a hastily called news conference hosted by the academy’s Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, where Dr. Tu worked. Chinese reporters had been badgering the institute for days for information on Dr. Tu. Finally, late Thursday night, officials announced the briefing.
周五，在屠呦呦曾经工作过的中国中医科学院中药研究所匆忙召开的新闻发布会上，这个问题就显现了出来。几天来，中国记者一直在询问该研究所有关屠呦呦的信息。终于，该机构的管理层周四深夜宣布将召开新闻发布会。
For an hour, Chinese journalists asked two officials from the institute for any sort of information on Dr. Tu: what was she like (blunt and hard-working), how many were on her team (50), why was she asked to head the project (no one could say). Mostly, they asked what she had done in the 40 years since her discovery. After a bit of shuffling and grimacing, the answer: She had tried to find other herbs but had not succeeded.
在一个小时的时间里，中国记者向该研究所的两名领导询问了关于屠呦呦的各种情况：她为人怎么样（直率、努力），她所在的团队有多少人（50人），为什么让她领导该项目（没人能说出个所以然）。记者问的问题主要是，她在发现青蒿素后的40年里都做了什么。他们迟疑片刻，以不自然的表情回答道，她曾经尝试寻找其他药草，然而并没有成功。
In a nearby clinic attached to the academy, doctors say they know why. Chinese medicine almost never uses individual plants or minerals. Instead, it relies on diagnoses based solely on the doctor’s questions, observations and the skillful taking of the pulse.
在附近一家附属于中医科学院的诊所里，医生称他们知道其中的原因。中医几乎从不单独使用某种植物或矿物，它依赖的是医生根据望闻问切做出的诊断。
One senior practitioner is Hu Xin, 61, who began learning herbal medicine 50 years ago from his father. He later went to university, earning advanced degrees, but said that any good herbalist has to study the classics, some of which date back 2,000 years. Sitting in his small consultation room at the end of a long morning, Dr. Hu had just treated 14 patients with serious ailments like intestinal inflammation, ovarian cysts, menstrual cramps and chronic bronchitis.
今年61岁的胡欣是一名高级医师。他50年前跟随父亲学习草药，后来上了大学，获得了高级学位。但他表示，任何优秀的中医都必须学习经典著作。部分经典著作成书于2000年前。漫长的上午就要结束了，坐在小诊室里的胡欣只接待了14名身患肠炎、卵巢囊肿、痛经和慢性支气管炎等疾病的病人。
But despite the successes that he and his patients report, he worried about the attacks on Chinese medicine. Now, he said excitedly, the Nobel Prize would help keep critics at bay.
胡欣和他的病人都谈到了治疗的成功。尽管如此，胡欣仍对中医受到攻击而忧心忡忡。现在，他乐观地说，诺贝尔奖可以反驳那些批评者。