Every year there is great anticipation and speculation ahead of the announcement of the Nobel Peace Prize recipient. Bets are wagered, news organizations are on alert and, in the past few years, social platforms like Twitter are alight.
每年诺贝尔和平奖得主公布前，都会引发人们的诸多期待和猜测。一些人开局下注，新闻机构随时待命，过去的几年里，Twitter等社交平台上对此也极为兴奋。
But who makes the decision?
但是，是谁在做决定呢？
The prize, which has been awarded since 1901, is not selected by an international committee, but instead is decided by five Norwegians appointed by the country’s Parliament.
诺贝尔和平奖自1901年开始颁发，选择得奖者的不是一个国际委员会，而是挪威议会任命的五名挪威人。
Alfred Nobel, the Swedish inventor who established the prize, stipulated in his will that the Peace Prize be awarded by a committee “of five persons, to be elected by the Norwegian Storting,” the country’s parliament.
瑞典发明家阿尔弗雷德·诺贝尔(Alfred Nobel)设立了这个奖项，他在遗嘱中规定，和平奖“由挪威议会”选定的五人委员会评审。
For decades after its founding, the committee consisted of current members of Parliament. In an effort for the panel to appear more independent, a rule was made in 1936 barring current members of the ruling government from joining the committee. In 1977, that rule was expanded to include all sitting members of Parliament.
此后几十年中，该委员会都由议会的现任成员组成。为了使其显得更独立性，1936年出台了一条规则，禁止执政政府的现有成员加入该委员会。1977年，该规定已扩大到涵盖议会的所有在任成员。
Today, the committee still tends to reflect the Storting’s political parties, and many members were former members of Parliament, including a former prime minister.
如今，该委员会仍倾向于反映挪威议会政党团体的意见，其成员大多是前议会成员，包括一名前总理。
The current committee consists of three women and two men. They are elected to six-year terms, but can be re-elected.
目前的委员会由三名女性和两名男性组成。他们当选后任期为六年，但可以连任。
•Kaci Kullmann Five, the Nobel Committee chairwoman, is a former member of Parliament and former chairwoman of the Conservative Party. She joined the committee in 2003.
•卡茜·菲弗(Kaci Kullmann Five)，诺贝尔委员会女主席，前议会成员，前保守党(Conservative Party)主席。2003年进入委员会。
•Berit Reiss-Andersen, deputy chairwoman, is a lawyer and former state secretary in the Justice Department. She has been a committee member since 2012.
•巴丽特·瑞丝-安德森(Berit Reiss-Andersen)，委员会副主席，律师，曾任司法部国务秘书。2012年进入委员会。
•Inger-Marie Ytterhorn is a former member of Parliament and a senior political adviser to the Progress Party. She has been a committee member since 2000.
•英格-玛丽·于特霍恩(Inger-Marie Ytterhorn)，前议会成员，进步党(Progress Party)高级政治顾问。2000年进入委员会。
•Thorbjorn Jagland is the secretary general of the Council of Europe and was Norway’s prime minister from 1996 to 1997. He has been on the committee since 2009.
•托尔比约恩·亚格兰(Thorbjorn Jagland)，欧洲理事会(Council of Europe)秘书长，在1996至1997年间担任挪威首相。2009年进入委员会。
•Henrik Syse is a researcher at the Peace Research Institute of Oslo and joined the committee this year.
•亨里克·塞斯(Henrik Syse)是奥斯陆和平研究所(Peace Research Institute of Oslo)的研究员，今年加入委员会。
All of the nominations and the committee’s deliberations are kept secret.
所有提名和委员会的审议过程都是保密的。
Last year, Geir Lundestad, a historian and formerly the committee’s senior employee of 25 years, wrote a “tell-all” book in which he revealed the “secret tussles behind controversial Nobel Peace Prizes over the last quarter century,” according to The Associated Press.
历史学家吉尔·伦德斯德(Geir Lundestad)以前在该委员会担任了25年的高级雇员。据《美联社》(The Associated Press)报道，他在去年写了一本全盘揭秘的书籍，揭露了“过去25年中具有争议的诺贝尔奖背后的秘密争斗”。
Mr. Lundestad, who was the committee’s secretary and not a voting member, accused Mr. Jagland of leaking information about the deliberations to the press. In turn, the committee released a statement accusing Mr. Lundestad of having “broken several points of his vow of silence” in his memoir, “Secretary of Peace: 25 years with the Nobel Prize.”
伦德斯德曾担任该委员会的秘书，但并不是具有投票权的成员。他指责亚格兰向媒体泄露评议信息。反过来，该委员会发表声明谴责伦德斯德在回忆录《诺贝尔和平奖25年来的秘密》(Secretary of Peace: 25 years with the Nobel Prize)中“违背了他的沉默誓言提到的几点”。
The committee is housed in a 19th-century mansion in Oslo, called the Norwegian Nobel Institute. The Nobel Peace Prize is the only one of the five prizes chosen and awarded by Norway instead of Sweden.
该委员会的办公地点位于奥斯陆一座19世纪官邸内，被称为挪威诺贝尔研究所(Norwegian Nobel Institute)。诺贝尔和平奖是五个奖项中唯一一个由挪威而不是瑞典选出并授予的奖项。
The committee meets in a room in the building that has been left virtually unchanged since 1905, but for the portraits of successive winners hanging on the walls.
委员会在该建筑的一个房间内会面，该建筑自1905年以来几乎保持不变，除了墙上挂着的历届获奖者的肖像。
Anyone can be suggested for a Nobel Peace Prize, but only a select group is allowed to submit formal nominations. That group includes members of national legislatures and international courts, professors, previous prize winners and current or former members of the Norwegian Nobel Committee.
任何人都可以获得诺贝尔和平奖提名，但只有一群经过挑选的人士可以提交正式提名。这群人包括国家立法机关及国际法庭成员、教授、前诺贝尔获奖者及挪威诺贝尔委员会现任或前任成员。
The committee accepts nominations by email, as well as by mail.
该委员会通过电子邮件和普通邮件接受提名。
Each year, the deadline for submissions is in February. Between March and May, the committee prepares a short list, and from June to August the nominees are reviewed. The laureates are announced in October, and by tradition the Peace Prize is awarded on Dec. 10, the anniversary of Alfred Nobel’s death.
每年的提交截止日期是2月。3月至5月期间，该委员会准备一份入围名单，从6月到8月，该委员会对被提名者进行审核。10月宣布获奖者，按照传统，颁奖时间是12月10日——阿尔弗雷德·诺贝尔(Alfred Nobel)的忌日。