In his Nobel acceptance speech, Seamus Heaney said that he prized the sort of poem that provides not just “a surprising variation played upon the world,” but “a retuning of the world itself” — delivering a visceral surprise, “like the impatient thump which unexpectedly restores the picture to the television set, or the electric shock which sets the fibrillating heart back to its proper rhythm.”
在诺贝尔奖获奖致辞中，谢默斯·希尼(Seamus Heaney)说，自己珍视的那种诗不仅是“在世界上演奏的惊喜变奏”，同时也“是对世界本身的回归”——它带来一种发自内心的惊异，“如同伴随着一阵焦躁的抖动，电视机画面突然恢复正常，又或者让颤动的心脏回复正常节奏的那一下电击。”
That was very much a description of his finest work: poetry that used the magic of language and sound to capture the particularities of a time and place — Northern Ireland in the second half of the 20th century — while jolting us into a reapprehension of the human condition. Whether he was writing about his family’s farm and the unforgiving world of nature in his earliest poems or, later on, about an Ireland ravaged by the violence of the Troubles, Mr. Heaney possessed an uncommon ability to glean “the unsaid off the palpable,” to capture in words the relationship between the individual and the wider world, the “mind’s center and its circumference.” His verse is musical, sensuous and tactile, by turns pungent and aching — rich with the sinuous sounds that made him an heir to Hopkins and Stevens, and an acute awareness of the physical world that underscored his affinities with Hardy and Frost.
这非常适合描述他本人最好的作品：那些用魔力般语言书写的诗歌，仿佛捕捉到某个时间与空间的特性——也就是20世纪下半叶的北爱尔兰——与此同时，它们又令人震撼，使人重新思省人类的处境。不管是早期诗歌中描写自家农场与无情的大自然，抑或后来诗歌中描写爱尔兰如何遭受暴乱的破坏，希尼始终拥有一种非凡的能力，可以收集“不能言说的可感知之物”，用词句捕捉个人与广大世界之间的联系，以及“心灵的中心与外延”之间的关系。他的诗句富于音乐性和质感，十分赏心悦目，有时也令人感到辛酸和痛苦；诗中充满灵活摇曳的音节，令他颇具霍普金斯(Hopkins)与史蒂文斯(Stevens)之风，而对物质世界清醒的认识又深化了他与哈代(Hardy)和弗罗斯特(Frost)的共同之处。
Mr. Heaney once observed that writing for him was “a journey where each point of arrival” has “turned out to be a steppingstone rather than a destination.” And regardless of a poem’s immediate subject matter — nature, myth or contemporary Ireland — there are continuities in his work: an awareness of mortality and the precariousness of life, and an appreciation of the virtues of “keeping going,” whether he is referring to a farmer persevering in the arduous work of wresting a living from the rocky land, or people trying to cope, daily, with the violence that escalated in Northern Ireland during the late ‘60s and early ‘70s. Always, the thrum of history vibrates close beneath the surface: the “skull-capped ground” of Ireland is part of Europe’s bloody history, the same as the peat bogs, which recur in Heaney’s poems, holding in their alluvial mud the bodies of people felled by strife and murder and ritual sacrifice in ancient times.
希尼曾经说，写作对于他，就像“一次旅行，所有目的地都变成里程碑而不是终点”，尽管每首诗各有不同的主题——自然、神话抑或当代爱尔兰——他的诗始终有一种连贯性：对人类必死命运与人生不确定性的认识，以及对“继续前进”这种品质的赞美，不管是描写一个在山地辛苦劳作、艰难谋生的农夫，还是20世纪60年代末、70年代初每天都要应对北爱尔兰不断升级暴力的人们。历史的喧嚣在表面之下悸动：爱尔兰“覆满尸骨的土地”是欧洲血腥历史的一部分，正如希尼诗歌中的泥炭沼泽，淤积土中埋葬着人们的尸体，他们都是挣扎中陷落下去或被谋杀的人，还有古代仪式上的牺牲品。
Even in the early poems in “Death of a Naturalist” (1966) and “Door Into the Dark” (1969), death and decay make appearances as part of nature’s seasonal orbit. In one poem, he writes of “gross-bellied frogs” sitting “poised like mud grenades,” and in another, of “a rat-gray fungus” creeping over a fresh cache of fruit, portending rot and decay. In “Turkeys Observed,” he writes:
就连在他的早期诗歌《自然主义者之死》(Death of a Naturalist, 1966)和《通往黑暗之门》(Door Into the Dark, 1969)中，死亡与腐朽也是自然四季循环的一部分。在其中一首诗里，他写到“大肚子的青蛙”“摆出泥巴手榴弹的姿势”坐在那里；在另一首诗里，“霉菌有老鼠般的灰色”，蔓延过被储藏起来的新鲜水果，带来腐烂与衰败的征兆。在《火鸡观察》(Turkeys Observed)中，他写道：
“But a turkey cowers in death.Pull his neck, pluck him, and look — He is just another poor forked thing,A skin bag plumped with inky putty.”
“但一只死去的火鸡蜷缩着。伸开它的脖子，拔掉它的毛，看吧——它只是另一只悲惨的盘中物，遍布黑色灰泥的一具皮囊。”
Such early poems memorialize the farm world where Mr. Heaney grew up, capturing its day-to-day rhythms and the “physical, creaturely existence” he led as a child, acutely aware of the sounds of life around him: “rain in the trees, mice on the ceiling, a steam train rumbling along the railway line one field back from the house.” Sometimes, Mr. Heaney would draw connections between himself and his family: in the famous poem “Digging,” he compares his father’s work with a spade to his own work with a pen, exhuming long-lost “living roots” that “awaken in my head.”
这些早期诗歌是纪念希尼成长的农场世界，他捕捉那里日常生活中的韵律与他儿时那种“物质性、生物性的存在”，敏锐地留意着四周生命的声音：“雨落在树上，天花板上老鼠的声音，一列火车从屋后田野上的铁路隆隆开过。”有时候，希尼会描绘他与家庭的联系，在他的名作《挖掘》(Digging)这首诗中，他把父亲用铲子挖掘的工作和他自己用笔写作的工作做对比，发掘久已失落的“生命的根源”，它们“在我脑海中觉醒”。
In the 1970s, in works like “North” (1975) and “Field Work” (1979), Mr. Heaney began to deal more explicitly with the situation in Northern Ireland. Pastoral imagery began to give way to images of “armored cars” and “machine-gun posts” and “a point-blank teatime bullet.”
20世纪70年代，在《北方》(North, 1975)和《田野工作》(Field Work, 1979)等作品里，希尼开始涉猎北爱尔兰局势等更复杂的问题。田园诗般的想象开始变成“装甲车”、“机枪手的位置”，以及“午茶时分无目的的子弹”等形象。
“The external reality and inner dynamic of happenings in Northern Ireland between 1968 and 1974,” he said in his Nobel Speech, “were symptomatic of change, violent change admittedly, but change nevertheless.”  “For the minority living there, change had been long overdue,” he said, adding that “the eggs of danger which were always incubating got hatched out very quickly.”
“1968年到1974年，北爱尔兰发生的外部现实与内部动力是改变的症状，它们被公认为暴力的改变，但不管怎样也都是改变，”他在诺贝尔奖获奖致辞上说道，“对于生活在那里的少数族裔来说，改变早就应当发生。”他又补充，“长期酝酿的危机突然之间就破壳而出。”
In a poem with a classical setting in “The Spirit Level” (1996), there is a horrific image of “bodies raining down like tattered meat”; in another, hopes of a cessation offer the dream of a private life free from the shadow of the tribe. In many later poems, there was a re-embrace of ordinary life: a return of sorts to the world of his nature poems, but with a sense of hard-won acceptance.
在使用古典格式的《精神的层次》(The Spirit Level, 1996)一诗中，有“尸体像破烂的肉块，如雨水般落下”的可怖画面；在另一首诗里，对停战的希望成了一个个体生命摆脱同类阴影的梦想。他后来的很多诗歌又重新拥抱平凡的生活，回归那些描绘自然世界的诗歌，但多了一丝艰难得来的无怨承受。
Mr. Heaney was always re-examining the relationship between the personal and the public, and he avoided the “diamond absolutes” of partisanship, continually questioning the role of the poet — trying to absorb the shocks of 20th-century history, while remaining true to the inner promptings of his imagination.
希尼总在重新审视个人与公众的关系，他避免党派“钻石般的绝对真理”，不断质疑诗人的位置，试图从20世纪历史的震荡中学习，同时又对来自想像力的内心指示保持真诚。
In “Station Island” (1984) — a dazzling reworking of Dante, set on an Irish island known for centuries as a place of religious pilgrimage — all the themes of Heaney’s work come together in an orchestral whole. Here, the present, past and myth merge and overlap, and the competing claims on an artist emerge in the form of ghosts: literary ghosts, ghosts from the poet’s own past and ghosts from Ireland’s past: a young priest “glossy as a blackbird” and a shopkeeper cousin shot in the head, who “trembled like a heat wave and faded.” Near the end, the ghost of James Joyce appears as a spiritual guide, exhorting the poet to write for the joy of it, and going on to say:
《站台岛》(Station Island, 1984)是对但丁作品的精彩重写，发生在几世纪以来一直被视为宗教朝圣地的一个爱尔兰岛屿上，在这首诗里，希尼作品中的所有主题都汇聚为一首交响乐。现在、过去与神话融汇贯通，满溢而出；艺术家心中互相斗争的要求凝聚成鬼魂的形式：文学的鬼魂，来自诗人过去经历的鬼魂与来自爱尔兰历史的鬼魂，比如一个年轻的诗人，头发“像青鸟一样光滑”、一个被子弹打中头部的商店店主表亲，他“像热流一样颤抖并消逝”。到全诗末尾，詹姆斯·乔伊斯(James Joyce)的鬼魂作为心灵向导出现，劝诫诗人为写作的欢乐而写，他还说：
“... Keep at a tangent.When they make the circle wide, it’s time to swimout on your own and fill the elementwith signatures on your own frequency,echo soundings, searches, probes, allurements,elver-gleams in the dark of the whole sea.”
“……持续偏离主题。当它们拓展外延，是时候去游泳了游出你自身，去把元素填满用你自身频率的特性，回音、探索、调查、诱惑以及黑暗大海中幼鳗的微光。”