John F. Nash Jr., a mathematician who shared a Nobel Prize in 1994 for work that greatly extended the reach and power of modern economic theory and whose decades-long descent into severe mental illness and eventual recovery were the subject of a book and a 2001 film, both titled “A Beautiful Mind,” was killed, along with his wife, in a car crash on Saturday in New Jersey. He was 86.
数学家小约翰·F·纳什(John F. Nash Jr.)和妻子周六在新泽西州因车祸离世。纳什的工作极大地拓展了现代经济学理论的影响范围和力量，他也凭此与人共同荣获1994年的诺贝尔奖。此外，他罹患严重精神疾病数十年但最终康复的故事，成就了一本名为《美丽心灵》(A Beautiful Mind)的书和2001年的一部同名电影。纳什享年86岁。
Dr. Nash and his wife, Alicia, 82, were in a taxi on the New Jersey Turnpike in Monroe Township around 4:30 p.m. when the driver lost control while trying to pass another car and hit a guard rail and another vehicle, said Sgt. Gregory Williams of the New Jersey State Police.
新泽西州警察局(New Jersey State Police)警佐格雷戈里·威廉斯(Gregory Williams)表示，下午4点30分左右，纳什和82岁的妻子艾丽西亚(Alicia)乘坐的出租车行驶在新泽西州收费高速公路位于门罗镇的路段期间，在试图超车时失控撞到了护栏和另一辆车。
The couple were ejected from the cab and pronounced dead at the scene. The State Police said it was likely that they were not wearing seat belts. The taxi driver and the driver of the other car were treated for non-life threatening injuries. No criminal charges have been filed.
被抛出车外的夫妇二人被当场宣布死亡。新泽西州警察局表示，事故发生时，两人可能没系安全带。出租车司机和另一辆车的司机受了伤，但无生命危险并已经接受治疗。目前尚未提起刑事指控。
The Nashes were returning from Norway, where Dr. Nash and Louis Nirenberg, a mathematician from New York University, had received the Abel Prize from The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.
纳什夫妇当时是在从挪威归来的路上。纳什刚刚同来自纽约大学(New York University)的数学家路易斯·尼伦伯格(Louis Nirenberg)一起，获得了挪威科学与文学院(The Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters)颁发的阿贝尔奖(Abel Prize)。
Dr. Nash was widely regarded as one of the great mathematicians of the 20th century, known for the originality of his thinking and for his fearlessness in wrestling down problems so difficult few others dared tackle them. A one-sentence letter written in support of his application to Princeton’s doctoral program in math said simply, “This man is a genius.”
纳什被广泛认为是20世纪最伟大的数学家之一，他以独创性的思维，以及敢于解决其他人不敢触碰的难题而著称。纳什申请普林斯顿大学的数学博士项目时，一封推荐信里只写了一句话，“此人是天才。”
“John’s remarkable achievements inspired generations of mathematicians, economists and scientists,’’ the president of Princeton, Christopher L. Eisgruber, said on Sunday, “and the story of his life with Alicia moved millions of readers and moviegoers who marveled at their courage in the face of daunting challenges.”
“约翰的卓越成就鼓舞了几代数学家、经济学家和科学家，”普林斯顿大学校长克里斯托弗·L·伊斯格鲁布(Christopher L. Eisgruber)周日表示。“他与艾丽西亚的故事感动了数百万读者和观众，他们惊叹于夫妇二人面对艰巨挑战的勇气。”
Russell Crowe, who portrayed Dr. Nash in “A Beautiful Mind,” tweeted that he was “stunned,” by his death. “An amazing partnership,” he wrote. “Beautiful minds, beautiful hearts.”
电影《美丽心灵》(A Beautiful Mind)中纳什的扮演者罗素·克劳(Russell Crowe)在Twitter上写道，纳什的死讯让他感到“震惊”。“了不起的伴侣，”他写道。“美丽的头脑，美丽的心灵。”
Dr. Nash’s theory of noncooperative games, published in 1950 and known as Nash equilibrium, provided a conceptually simple but powerful mathematical tool for analyzing a wide range of competitive situations, from corporate rivalries to legislative decision making. Dr. Nash’s approach is now pervasive in economics and throughout the social sciences and is applied routinely in other fields, like evolutionary biology.
纳什在1950年提出的非合作博弈论——被称为纳什均衡——提供了一个概念简单但却极其强大的数学工具，可以用来分析各种竞争态势，从企业竞争到立法决策。纳什的方法现在普遍用于经济学及社会科学，也经常用于其他领域，比如演化生物学。
Harold W. Kuhn, an emeritus professor of mathematics at Princeton and a longtime friend and colleague of Dr. Nash’s who died in 2014, said, “I think honestly that there have been really not that many great ideas in the 20th century in economics and maybe, among the top 10, his equilibrium would be among them.” A University of Chicago economist, Roger Myerson, went further, comparing the impact of Nash equilibrium on economics “to that of the discovery of the DNA double helix in the biological sciences.”
于2014年去世的普林斯顿大学数学系荣休教授哈罗德·W·库恩(Harold W Kuhn)是纳什的老朋友和同事。他曾经表示，“坦白讲，我认为20世纪经济学领域的伟大理念不是很多，但他的均衡理论或许可以进入前十。”芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)经济学家罗杰·迈尔森(Roger Myerson)对纳什的推崇则更进一步。他认为纳什均衡理论对经济学的影响，可以与“DNA双螺旋结构的发现对生命科学的影响”相提并论。
Dr. Nash also made contributions to pure mathematics that many mathematicians view as more significant than his Nobel-winning work on game theory, including solving an intractable problem in differential geometry derived from the work of the 19th century mathematician G.F.B. Riemann.
纳什对纯数学的研究也做出了巨大贡献，而在许多数学家看来，这些贡献比他赢得诺贝尔奖的博弈论研究还要重要。这其中包括，纳什解决了19世纪数学家G·F·B·黎曼(G F B Riemann)的研究中衍生出的一个棘手的微分几何问题。
His achievements were the more remarkable, colleagues said, for being contained in a handful of papers published before he was 30.
纳什的同事们表示，考虑到他把成果浓缩在短短几篇论文里，而且发表的时候还不到30岁，这些成就显得愈加不凡。
“Jane Austen wrote six novels,’’ said Barry Mazur, a professor of mathematics at Harvard who was a freshman at M.I.T. when Dr. Nash taught there. “I think Nash’s pure mathematical contributions are on that level. Very, very few papers he wrote on different subjects, but the ones that had impact had incredible impact.”
“简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)就写过六部小说，”哈佛大学数学教授巴里·马祖尔(Barry Mazur)说。他在麻省理工学院读大一的时候，纳什在那里任教。“我认为纳什对纯数学的贡献达到了同样的水平。他只写了很少的几篇论文，涉及了不同的话题，但论文产生的影响力都非常巨大。”
Yet to a wider audience, Dr. Nash was probably best known for his life story, a tale of dazzling achievement, devastating loss and almost miraculous redemption. The narrative of Dr. Nash’s brilliant rise, the lost years when his world dissolved in schizophrenia, his return to rationality and the awarding of the Nobel, retold in a biography by Sylvia Nasar and in the Oscar-winning film, starring Mr. Crowe and Jennifer Connelly as John and Alicia Nash, captured the public mind and became a symbol of the destructive force of mental illness and the stigma that often hounds those who suffer from it.
然而，更多人熟悉的可能还是纳什的人生经历。这个故事里包含着令人目炫的成就、毁灭性的失常，以及近乎奇迹般的救赎。西尔维娅·娜萨(Sylvia Nasar)据此撰写了一本传记，随后又出现了一部获得奥斯卡奖的电影。二者讲述了纳什辉煌的崛起、因为精神分裂症而失去的岁月，理性的恢复，以及赢得诺贝尔奖的历程。克劳和詹妮弗·康奈利(Jennifer Connelly)在影片中分别饰演了约翰和艾丽西亚·纳什。这个故事让人们的心灵受到震撼，成为了精神疾病的破坏性力量和往往伴随患者左右的污名的象征。
John Forbes Nash was born on June 13, 1928, in Bluefield, W. Va. His father, John Sr., was an electrical engineer. His mother, Margaret, was a schoolteacher.
纳什全名约翰·福布斯·纳什，于1928年6月13日生于西弗吉尼亚州的布卢菲尔德。他的父亲老约翰是电气工程师。母亲玛格丽特(Margaret)则是教师。
As a child, John Nash may have been a prodigy but he was not a sterling student, Ms. Nasar noted in a 1994 article in The New York Times. “He read constantly. He played chess. He whistled entire Bach melodies,” she wrote.
在1994年刊登于《纽约时报》上的一篇文章中，娜萨指出，童年时期的约翰·纳什可以说已经是个天才，但他并非优等生。“他手不释卷，会下棋，能用口哨吹出巴赫的所有曲子，”她写道。
Receiving his bachelor’s and master’s degrees at Carnegie, he arrived at Princeton in 1948, a time of great expectations, when American children still dreamed of growing up to be physicists like Einstein or mathematicians like the brilliant, Hungarian-born polymath John von Neumann, both of whom attended the afternoon teas at Fine Hall, the home of the math department.
在卡内基获得了学士和硕士学位之后，纳什于1948年来到了普林斯顿大学。那是一个充满希望的年代，美国的儿童仍然梦想长大成为爱因斯坦那样的物理学家，或是出生于匈牙利的博闻强识的约翰·冯·诺依曼(John von Neumann)那样的数学家。这两人都会参加数学系馆法恩楼(Fine Hall)的下午茶会。
John Nash, tall and good-looking, quickly became known for his intellectual arrogance, his odd habits — he paced the halls, walked off in the middle of conversations, whistled incessantly — and his fierce ambition, his colleagues have recalled.
同事们回忆，约翰·纳什身材高大，仪表堂堂，很快因为在智识上的傲慢、古怪的习惯——在厅堂里踱步，谈话的时候突然离开，不停地吹口哨——以及强大的雄心为人所知。
He invented a game, known as Nash, that became an obsession in the Fine Hall common room. (The same game, invented independently in Denmark, was later sold by Parker Brothers as Hex.) He also took on a problem left unsolved by Dr. von Neumann and Oskar Morgenstern, the pioneers of game theory, in their now classic book, “Theory of Games and Economic Behavior.”
他发明了一个叫做“纳什”的游戏，在法恩楼的公共休息室里大受欢迎。（同样一款游戏在丹麦也被发明了出来，随后由帕克兄弟公司[Parker Brothers]以 Hex的名字销售。）此外，在博弈论的先驱冯·诺依曼和奥斯卡·摩根斯顿(Oskar Morgenstern)合写的经典著作《博弈论与经济行为》(Theory of Games and Economic Behavior)中有一个未解的难题，而纳什着手进行了研究。
Dr. von Neumann and Dr. Morgenstern, an economist at Princeton, addressed only so-called zero-sum games, in which one player’s gain is another’s loss. But most real world interactions are more complicated, where players’ interests are not directly opposed, and there are opportunities for mutual gain. Dr. Nash’s solution, contained in a 27-page doctoral thesis he wrote when he was 21, provided a way of analyzing how each player could maximize his benefits, assuming that the other players would also act to maximize their self-interest.
冯·诺伊曼和普林斯顿的经济学家摩根斯顿只分析了所谓的“零和游戏”，即其中一方的收益来自于另一方的损失。但在真实世界中，大多数的交互要更加复杂，各方利益并不是直接抵触的，而是存在互惠互利的可能。21岁的纳什在27页的博士论文中给出了解决方案。他提供了一种分析方法，假设各方均以实现自身利益最大化为前提行事，然后分析每一方如何才能最大程度地获益。
This deceptively simple extension of game theory paved the way for economic theory to be applied to a wide variety of other situations besides the marketplace.
这个对博弈论看似简单的扩展，为经济理论运用于市场以及其他大量领域铺平了道路。
In 1957, after two years of on-and-off courtship, he married Alicia Larde, an M.I.T. physics major from an aristocratic Central American family and one of only 16 women in the class of 1955.
1957年，经过两年断断续续的追求后，他与艾丽西亚·拉迪(Alicia Larde)成婚。她是麻省理工学院物理专业的学生，来自中美洲的一个贵族家庭，是1955届仅有的16名女生之一。
“He was very, very good looking, very intelligent,” Mrs. Nash told Ms. Nasar. “It was a little bit of a hero worship thing.”
“他长得非常、非常帅气，人也很聪明，”纳什夫人告诉娜萨。“当时有点英雄崇拜的感觉。”
But early in 1959, with Alicia pregnant with their son, John, Dr. Nash began to unravel. His brilliance turned malignant, leading him into a landscape of paranoia and delusion, and in April, he was hospitalized at McLean Hospital, outside Boston, sharing the psychiatric ward with, among others, the poet Robert Lowell.
但在1959年初，艾丽西亚怀上了他们的儿子约翰时，纳什的症状开始显现。他的才华走向了歧路，令他陷入偏执和妄想。4月时，纳什被送往波士顿郊外的麦克莱恩医院(McLean Hospital)治疗。当时和他一起住在精神科病房的还有诗人罗伯特·洛厄尔(Robert Lowell)。
It was the first step of a steep decline. There were more hospitalizations. He underwent electroshock therapy and fled for a while to Europe, sending cryptic postcards to colleagues and family members. For many years he roamed the Princeton campus, a lonely figure scribbling unintelligible formulas on the same blackboards in Fine Hall where he had once demonstrated startling mathematical feats.
这是他的病情急剧恶化的第一步。之后他又接受了多次住院治疗。在经过电击疗法后，他远避到欧洲一段时间，其间寄送了含义不明的明信片给同事和家人。很多年里，他在普林斯顿的校园内游荡。在他曾经表现出惊人造诣的数学系馆法恩楼，纳什形单影只地在同样几块黑板上涂写着莫名其妙的公式。
By the early 1990s, when the Nobel committee began investigating the possibility of awarding Dr. Nash its memorial prize in economics, his illness had quieted. He later said that he simply decided that he was going to return to rationality. “I emerged from irrational thinking, ultimately, without medicine other than the natural hormonal changes of aging,” he wrote in an email to Dr. Kuhn in 1996.
到90年代初，当诺贝尔委员会开始研究向纳什颁发经济学奖项的可能性时，他的病情已经好转。后来他说，自己只是下定决心要回归理性。“最终，我从非理性的思维中拔离，没有用药，只是靠着年龄增大时荷尔蒙的天然变化，”他在1996年发给库恩的一封电邮中写道。
Colleagues, including Dr. Kuhn, helped persuade the Nobel committee that Dr. Nash was well enough to accept the prize — he shared it with two economists, John C. Harsanyi of the University of California at Berkeley, and Reinhard Selten of the Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms University in Bonn, Germany — and they defended him when some questioned giving the prize to a man who had suffered from a serious mental disorder.
在库恩等同事的劝说下，诺贝尔委员会相信纳什的状况已经好转到足以领奖——他与两位经济学家共享了这个奖项，一位是加州大学伯克利分校(University of California at Berkeley)的约翰·C·海萨尼(John C. Harsanyi)，另一位是德国波恩莱茵弗里德里希·威廉大学(Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms University)的莱因哈德·泽尔腾(Reinhard Selten)——当有人对颁奖给一个曾患严重精神障碍症的人提出质疑时，同事们也为他进行辩护。
The Nobel, the publicity that attended it, and the making of the film were “a watershed in his life,” Dr. Kuhn said of Dr. Nash. “It changed him from a homeless unknown person who was wandering around Princeton to a celebrity, and financially, it put him on a much better basis.”
获得诺贝尔奖及相关的宣传，再加上《美丽心灵》的拍摄，是纳什“人生的一个分水岭，”库恩说。“这让他从一个无家可归、默默无闻、在普林斯顿游荡的人，变成了一位名人，他的经济状况也因此获得了大幅改善。”