Nexen, Smithfield Foods and even the Chase Manhattan Plaza — Chinese outbound direct investment is increasing and becoming ever more visible.
中国企业收购了尼克森公司(Nexen)、史密斯菲尔德食品公司(Smithfield Foods)，甚至大通曼哈顿广场(Chase Manhattan Plaza)——中国的对外直接投资正在增长，而且变得比以往任何时候都更抢眼。
Last year, China became the world’s third-largest investor, after the United States and Japan, at a time when global foreign direct investment declined by 18 percent, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
去年，中国成了位列美国和日本之后的全球第三大投资国。与此同时，根据联合国贸易和发展会议(United Nations Conference on Trade and Development)的数据，全球外国直接投资额却下降了18%。
China’s outbound investment has grown rapidly in recent years, although it still represents only a small proportion of the overall economy. Outbound direct investment rose 20 percent in the first three quarters of this year, the private equity fund A Capital said in a report this month.
近年来，中国对外投资实现了快速增长，尽管它在整个国民经济中依然只占到较小的比例。私募股权基金亚欧联合资本集团(A Capital)在本月的一份报告中表示，今年前三季度，中国的对外直接投资额上升了20%。
The company predicts that Chinese outbound investment will equal inward investment within the next three years.
该公司预测，未来三年，中国的对外投资额将和外资对华投资额持平。
So if you own a nice little resort in the Caribbean that could use a cash injection, perhaps from China, what can you do? For some project managers, the answer lies in investment agencies that can bridge the cultural and linguistic gaps to reach Chinese investors.
打个比方，如果你在加勒比海边有一座小型度假村，需要一些资金支持，或许中国人原意出资，你应该怎么办？对一些项目经理来说，答案就在能为中国投资者消除文化和语言差异的投资机构身上。
“We’re like a matchmaker,” Adam Wu, chief operating officer of one such company, China Business Network, said in an interview. People know China has money to invest, but they don’t know how to attract it, he said.
中国商务集团就是一家这样的公司。该公司首席运营官吴亚当(Adam Wu)在一次采访中说，“我们就像是媒人。”他说，人们知道中国有钱要投资，可是他们不知道该如何吸引投资。
Through offices in Britain and China, Mr. Wu works with clients — mostly investment seekers — to find and meet Chinese partners. On a company website, visitors can browse projects including a resort in St. Kitts, an airport in Tanzania and a property development in the Pearl Islands, Panama. On the investor side, Mr. Wu also counts individuals, private Chinese companies and state-owned companies among his clients.
通过设在英国和中国的办公室，吴亚当和客户们开展合作，共同寻找并会见中国的合作伙伴。他的客户中，大部分是在寻找投资者。在该公司的网站上，访问者可以浏览到的项目有，圣基茨岛上的一个度假村、坦桑尼亚的一座机场和巴拿马珍珠岛上的一个房地产开发项目。对于投资方，吴亚当的客户既包括个人，也包括中国的民营企业和国有企业。
Among the key benefits of go-between agencies are connections with decision makers in Chinese business and government that help open doors, people in the industry say.
业内人士表示，客户通过中介机构获得的一项重要便利是，能够与中国企业和政府的决策者培育关系，这种关系有助于打通门路。
Jesse Chang, who officially opened the investment agency ChinaGoAbroad this month, said a meeting almost a decade ago with Zhang Xiaoqiang, vice chairman of China’s powerful National Development and Reform Commission, eventually led him to establish his business. ChinaGoAbroad was co-founded by the law firm TransAsia Lawyers and an organization under the commission’s supervision, the China Overseas Development Association. TransAsia Lawyers, which is also overseen by the commission, is a partner in ChinaGoAbroad. (The law firm has represented About.com, formerly owned by The New York Times.)
张贞熙本月正式启动了投资服务项目“中国走出去”(ChinaGoAbroad)。他说，近10年前，他和发展和改革委员会副主任张晓强有过一次会晤，那次会晤最终引领他开创了自己的事业。发改委在中国有很大的权力。“中国走出去”由发改委的下属机构中国产业海外发展和规划协会与权亚律师事务所(TransAsia Lawyers)联合创办。同受发改委管辖的权亚律师事务所也是“中国走出去”的合伙机构。（该律所曾为About.com充当代理，后者曾为《纽约时报》所有。）
With the slogan “Where China Meets the World,” ChinaGoAbroad provides consulting to investors and those seeking investment, as well as a website where clients can search projects. The company has helped facilitate deals worth upward of $850 million in sectors like agribusiness and resources, Mr. Chang said.
“中国走出去”的口号是“中国与世界缘聚于此”，该机构既为投资者和寻求资金的客户提供咨询，同时也提供了一个网站，让客户在这里寻找投资项目。张贞熙说，该机构已经在农业和资源领域，促成了金额超过8.5亿美元（约合52亿元人民币）的合作。
Although Mr. Chang, a lawyer by profession, said relationships were not the most important factor in terms of closing deals, his contacts in Chinese government and business have helped smooth the way for some clients. “A lot of people today still cannot get to the N.D.R.C.,” he said, referring to the National Development and Reform Commission.
尽管身为律师的张贞熙表示，关系不是达成交易最重要的因素，但他在中国政府和商界的人脉，还是帮一些客户扫清了道路。他说，“时至今日，许多人依然摸不到发改委的大门。”
It is these personal links that make working with a third party useful for some clients.
对某些客户来说，与第三方投资中介机构合作的优势正在于此。
Constantinos Anthis, general manager of the Apollo Capital Group, a Greek property developer, said his company tried emailing and faxing Chinese investors and funds with little success. But in September, Apollo hired China Business Network, which was able to arrange meetings with senior executives at Chinese state-owned companies and private equity funds, Mr. Anthis said.
希腊房地产开发商阿波罗资本集团(Apollo Capital Group)总经理康斯坦丁诺斯·安西斯(Constantinos Anthis)说，他的公司尝试着给中国投资者和基金发送了电子邮件和传真，却收效甚微。然而，安西斯说，今年9月，阿波罗聘请了中国商务集团，后者安排阿波罗会见了中国国有企业和私募股权基金的高管。
“They organized everything, including meetings and presentations,” said Stavros-Alexandros Efstathiou, Apollo’s chief executive. “They brought the right people to the table.”
阿波罗首席执行官斯塔夫罗斯-亚历山德罗斯·埃夫斯塔西奥(Stavros-Alexandros Efstathiou)说，“他们安排好了一切，包括会议和现场演示。他们把正确的人带到了谈判桌上。”
After a recent visit to China, Apollo came away with an agreement with a Chinese private equity firm to invest in a 300,000-square-meter, or 74-acre, property development outside Athens — Apollo Estates — that Apollo says is one of the largest in the country. The Greek company also signed an agreement to create a joint venture with a Chinese company to manage the development of Apollo Estates, and a memorandum of understanding with a Chinese state-owned construction company to build some of the residences. The Chinese companies declined to be identified.
前不久，阿波罗来了一趟中国，离开时已与中国一家私募股权公司达成了一项协议。根据该协议，中方公司将投资雅典郊外一处面积达30万平方米，即74英亩的房地产开发项目。阿波罗称，名为阿波罗庄园(Apollo Estates)的这个项目是该国最大的房地产开发项目之一。这家希腊公司还与一家中国企业签订了一份成立合资企业的协议，管理阿波罗庄园项目的开发。同时，该公司还与中国一家国有建筑公司签订了谅解备忘录，修建部分住宅。中方相关公司拒绝具名。
“Matchmaking” agencies also emphasize that they provide a useful buffer for their clients.
这些“媒人”机构还强调，它们为客户提供了有用的缓冲。
“In the negotiation process, they might be placed in an unfavorable bargaining position,” said Jack Gao, a specialist in mergers and acquisitions at China Overseas Investment Services, based in Hong Kong. It is not good for the people on the other side of the deal to know a company’s strategy, and hiding it is easier by using a middle party, Mr. Gao said.
“在谈判过程中，它们可能会被置于一个不利的地位，”总部位于香港的中国海外服务投资有限公司(China Overseas Investment Services)并购问题专家杰克·高(Jack Gao)说。他说，交易的另一方知道公司的战略可不是件好事，通过中间方更容易隐藏战略。
Chinese companies are still considered fairly new players in global markets. Outbound investment began to gain traction only with the establishment of a national “going out” policy in 1999. The government sees this as a way to not only secure resources but also create markets for Chinese companies and gain technical know-how.
在全球市场上，中国公司依然被认为是新手。在政府1999年制定了“走出去”的国策后，中国的对外投资才开始有了动力。政府认为，这不仅是获得资源，也是为中国企业创造市场并获得专门技能的途径。
Wen Jiabao, the former prime minister, said in his final work report in March 2012 that China is “accelerating the steps it has taken to make outbound investments.” He also identified the government’s priority sectors for outbound investment for the first time, saying that the government would guide merger and acquisition investments in “energy, raw materials, agriculture, service and infrastructure industries.”
2012年3月，前总理温家宝最后一次做政府工作报告时说，中国“正处于对外投资加快发展的重要阶段”。他还首次指出了政府优先支持的对外投资行业，称政府会引导“能源、原材料、农业、制造业、服务业、基础设施等领域”的投资合作和跨国并购。
Chinese leaders have “officially prioritized Chinese outbound investment over the historical priority of inbound foreign direct investment,” the analysts Chet Scheltema, Frank Yang and David Chan wrote last year in a brief for Dezan Shira & Associates, a consulting firm for foreign direct investment.
去年，分析师切特·斯海尔特马(Chet Scheltema)、弗兰克·杨(Frank Yang)和戴维·陈(David Chan)在为协力管理咨询有限公司(Dezan Shira & Associates)撰写的一份简报中说，中国领导人“重视中国对外投资的程度，已经超过了过去对吸引外来直接投资的重视程度”。协力咨询主要业务领域为外商直接投资。
State-owned companies have led the advance so far, mostly snapping up resource assets around the world in a series of occasionally controversial deals. However, the activity is beginning to become more varied.
迄今为止，国有企业一直走在这一潮流的前端。通过一系列时而会引发争议的交易，它们几乎在全世界抢夺资源资产。然而，这种活动正在变得更多元化。
“Starting from last year, or maybe the year before, we’ve had more private companies coming to us regarding investing overseas, and the size and scale of investment is going up,” said Mr. Gao. The company plans to focus more on private companies in the future, he said: “They respond faster, they sign faster.”
“从去年或是前年开始，有更多私企找到我们，想去海外投资，投资的规模和尺度都在增加，”杰克·高说。他所在的公司计划将来更多地关注私企。他说：“它们回应和签约的速度都更快。”
Target projects are also becoming more diverse. Earlier projects were concentrated in “resources and energy and infrastructure, and now it’s food and beverage, health care and new energy,” Mr. Gao said.
目标项目也变得更加多元。他说，早期的项目集中在“资源、能源和基础设施领域，现在则是餐饮、医疗卫生和新能源”。
Mr. Wu of China Business Network traveled to Idaho in October to check on a cattle farm that a Chinese private equity fund — the name of which he declined to disclose — wanted to buy.
10月，中国商务集团的吴亚当去爱达荷州考察了那里的一个养牛场。中国的一家私募股权基金想买下该养牛场。他拒绝透露那家基金的名字。
It’s possible that the client’s interest was piqued by the acquisition of America’s biggest pork producer, Smithfield Foods, by the Chinese company Shuanghui. The approval of a United States government panel in September sealed the takeover, the biggest ever of an American company by a Chinese company. Chinese investors are prone to a “herd effect,” following other people’s tracks, Mr. Wu said.
中国企业双汇对美国最大的猪肉生产商史密斯菲尔德的收购可能激发了客户的兴趣。9月，美国政府一个委员会的批准让这项收购尘埃落定。这也是中国企业收购的最大的一家美国企业。吴亚当说，中国投资者往往会表现出“羊群效应”，效仿其他人。
Introducing more exotic locales to Chinese investors can be a hard sell at first, he said. While Chinese construction companies are building the $3.4 billion Baha Mar resort in the Bahamas, Chinese investors are less familiar with Bermuda, another island resort destination off the American coast, where China Business Network is promoting several projects.
他说，把国外不那么知名的地方介绍给中国投资者一开始可能很难。尽管中国的建筑企业正在巴哈马修建一座投资34亿美元的Baha Mar度假村，但中国投资者对美国海岸附近的另一个海岛度假胜地百慕大却不太熟悉。中国商务集团正在推广那里的几个项目。
“They don’t know where it is on the map,” Mr. Wu said.
“他们在地图上都找不到那个地方，”吴亚当说。