Throughout the waning years of World War II, a band of Allied soldiers, art historians, curators and scholars labored to safeguard Europe’s cultural heritage and recover the millions of artworks and other treasures plundered by the Nazis and their collaborators. Nicknamed the Monuments Men, this group set up a string of temporary collection points for the valuables. Among the art in their care was a cache of 115 paintings, 19 drawings and a half-dozen crates of objects that the British had found in Hamburg in 1945. The works were registered under the name of Hildebrand Gurlitt, according to documents unearthed this week in the National Archives in College Park, Md., by Marc Masurovsky, the founder of the Holocaust Art Restitution Project.
在第二次世界大战进入尾声的那段时期，一群盟军士兵、艺术史专家、博物馆策展人和学者们，殚精竭虑地保护着欧洲的文化遗产，追回被纳粹及其同谋劫掠的数百万件艺术品和其他珍宝。这个绰号“古迹卫士”(Monuments Men)的团体为珍宝设立了一系列的临时收藏点。他们看管的艺术品中包括115幅油画、19幅素描和6箱物品，英国人于1945年在汉堡发现了这些珍宝。马克·马苏洛夫斯基(Marc Masurovsky)本周在美国国家档案馆(National Archives)位于马里兰州学院园(College Park)的分馆发现的文件显示，这些作品的登记物主是希尔德布兰特·古尔利特(Hildebrand Gurlitt)，马苏洛夫斯基是大屠杀艺术追索计划(Holocaust Art Restitution Project)的创始人。
Now, six decades later, restitution experts said it is possible that this collection, once entrusted to the Monuments Men, is part of the astonishing stash of more than 1,400 works seized in 2012 by German investigators from the apartment of Gurlitt’s son Cornelius and brought to light this week. It is considered to be the largest trove of missing European art to have been discovered since the end of World War II.
而今，在六十多年后，追索专家们表示，这些曾托付给“古迹卫士”的藏品，有可能是1400多幅令人惊叹的藏匿品的一部分。2012年，德国调查人员从古尔利特之子廓尼琉斯·古尔利特(Cornelius Gurlitt)的公寓里没收了这些作品，并在本周公开了这些作品。这被认为是二战结束以来所发现的，规模最大的一批失踪欧洲艺术品。
For five years, the elder Gurlitt, one of a handful of German dealers whom the Nazis had anointed to sell art confiscated from Jews and museums and sold abroad for foreign currency, had insisted these works were rightfully his. With the European recovery effort finally winding down, officials at a collection center in Wiesbaden agreed to return the cache to Gurlitt.
有五年时间，老古尔利特坚称这些作品理应归他所有。纳粹指定了一些画商向国外销售从犹太人和博物馆没收来的艺术品，从而换取外汇，老古尔利特就是其中的一个。随着欧洲的追索努力最终渐渐停止，威斯巴登一家收藏中心的管理人员同意把这些艺术品还给古尔利特。
On Dec. 15, 1950, the leader of the Allied unit, Theodore Heinrich, an American, signed the papers releasing the art to Gurlitt. The names and descriptions of a handful of paintings in the cache returned to Hildebrand Gurlitt — including gems by Otto Dix, Max Beckmann and Marc Chagall — appear to match those once hidden in the cluttered apartment of his son.
1950年12月15日，当时盟军行动的领导者，美国人西奥多·海因里希(Theodore Heinrich)签署了文件，把珍宝交给了古尔利特。在交还给希尔德布兰特·古尔利特的珍宝中，有几幅画的名字及描述，与藏在他儿子杂乱无章的公寓里的那些画相吻合，其中包括奥托·迪克斯(Otto Dix)、马克斯·贝克曼(Max Beckmann)和马克·夏加尔(Marc Chagall)的杰作。
Since the German authorities have refused to make public a list of the seized works, it is impossible to confirm with certainty that any of the pieces returned in 1950 to Hildebrand Gurlitt are the same as those seized last year. Mr. Masurovsky, however, said he believes that at least some of the works returned by the Allies in 1950 are the same.
由于德国官方拒绝公开没收作品的清单，外界无法真正确定，去年没收的作品里，有没有哪一幅是1950年归还给希尔德布兰特·古尔利特的画作。不过，马苏洛夫斯基说，他相信，在盟军于1950年归还的画作里，至少有一部分正是去年没收的作品。
What can be confirmed is that at least eight of the paintings that were returned in 1950, and that the elder Gurlitt maintained he had legitimately acquired were, in fact, stolen by the Nazis. These eight are currently listed in a database of looted art that the Nazis had stored at the Jeu de Paume museum in Paris after they occupied France. Those works are all by the French painter Michel Georges-Michel, whose apartment and studio were ransacked by Nazi agents in 1941.
可以肯定的是，在1950年归还的画作中，至少有八幅实际上是被纳粹窃取的，而老古尔利特坚称，他是通过合法途径获得这些画的。目前这八幅画被列入了一个被劫掠艺术品的数据库，数据库中列出的画作在纳粹占领法国后，就存放在了巴黎的国立网球场现代美术馆(Jeu de Paume museum)。它们全都是法国画家米歇尔·乔治-米歇尔(Michel Georges-Michel)的作品，纳粹特工在1941年洗劫了他的公寓和画室。
Mr. Masurovsky and other restitution experts said the 1950 list might help with the identification of works that the Germans recently took from Cornelius Gurlitt’s apartment.
马苏洛夫斯基和其他追索专家表示，1950年的清单也许有助于鉴别德国最近从廓尼琉斯·古尔利特的公寓里没收的作品。
Among the other items returned to Hildebrand Gurlitt 63 years ago were dozens of works by German Expressionists including Dix, Georg Grosz (“Two Women and a Man Walking”); Erich Heckel, Max Beckmann (“Lion Tamer” and “Woodcutters”), Christian Rohlfs (“Yellow Flowers” and “White Flowers”) and Franz Lenk. Italian, French and Dutch masters were on the Allied list, as well, including Guardi’s “Entrance to a Monastery,” Fragonard’s “Anna and the Holy Family,” Caspar Netscher’s “Boys Blowing Bubbles,” and landscapes attributed to Ruysdael and Rombouts. The collection included Gustave Courbet’s “The Father” and “Landscape with Rocks”; and Max Liebermann’s “Wagon in the Dunes” and “Two Riders on a Beach.”
在63年前归还给希尔德布兰特·古尔利特的其他画作中，还有许多德国表现主义画家的作品，其中包括迪克斯的作品、乔治·格罗兹(George Grosz)的《行走中的一男两女》(Two Women and a Man Walking)；埃里希·赫克尔(Erich Heckel)的作品、马克斯·贝克曼(Max Beckmann)的《驯狮者》(Lion Tamer)和《伐木者》(Woodcutters)，克里斯蒂安·罗尔夫斯(Christian Rohlfs)的《黄花》(Yellow Flowers)和《白花》(White Flowers)，以及弗朗茨·伦克(Franz Lenk)的作品。盟军归还的艺术品当中，也有意大利、法国和荷兰大师们的作品，其中包括瓜尔迪(Guardi)的《修道院的大门》(Entrance to a Monastery)、弗拉戈纳尔(Fragonard)的《安娜和圣家庭》(Anna and the Holy Family)、卡斯帕·内切尔(Caspar Netscher)的《吹泡泡的男孩》(Boys Blowing Bubbles)，以及据说作者是雷斯达尔(Ruysdael)和隆鲍茨(Rombouts)的风景画。藏品里还有居斯塔夫·库尔贝(Gustave Courbet)的《父亲》(The Father)和《有岩石的风景》(Landscape with Rocks)；马克斯·利伯曼(Max Liebermann)的《沙丘上的马车》(Wagon in the Dunes)和《沙滩上的骑马者》(Two Riders on a Beach)。
Mr. Masurovsky pointed to the return as an instance when the Monuments Men let looted art slip through their hands.
马苏洛夫斯基称，这些画作是“古迹卫士”会在无意之间归还被劫掠艺术品的一个例子。
Historians have pointed out, however, that finding the legal owner in the confusion of postwar Europe, without the aid of computerized databases and, often, documentation, was extremely difficult. France, for example, still has nearly 2,000 works in its museums that it knows were looted, but cannot properly identify owners.
然而，历史学者指出，在战后欧洲一片混乱的背景下，寻找合法物主是极其困难的，当时既缺乏电脑数据库的帮助，往往也没有文档记录。例如，法国的博物馆里，仍存放着近2000件自知是劫掠而来的作品，但是无法稳妥地确认物主。
Hildebrand Gurlitt was an art historian who had twice been stripped of posts because he had a Jewish grandparent; nonetheless, he had the expertise and international connections the Germans needed to move plundered works to market. He also crisscrossed Nazi-occupied territory during the war looking for treasures to fill Hitler’s grand plans for a museum in Linz, Austria. German and American investigators had questioned Gurlitt about his dealings after the war, archival documents show, but he insisted that all of the art that remained was his own. Other works that he had gathered for the Nazis, he said, as well as his records were destroyed in the firebombing of Dresden in 1945.
希尔德布兰特·古尔利特是一名艺术史学者，因为外祖母是犹太人，他曾两次失去工作；尽管如此，他有德国把劫掠来的作品送到市场上出售所需的专业知识和国际关系网。战争期间，他还在纳粹占领区内四处探访，寻找珍宝充实希特勒(Hitler)在奥地利林茨建造一所博物馆的宏伟计划。档案文件显示，德国和美国调查人员曾在战后就其交易行为审讯过古尔利特。不过他坚称，所有留下的艺术品都是他自己的。他说，他为纳粹收集的其他作品，以及他自己的记录，都在德累斯顿1945年遭受轰炸时被毁掉了。
As for the Modern works, which the Nazis labeled degenerate, many had been discarded or sold off from museums by the Third Reich and could have been legally acquired by Gurlitt and other collectors — even for a pittance.
至于被纳粹形容为“堕落”的现代作品，许多已经被丢弃，或者被第三帝国(Third Reich)的博物馆卖掉了，古尔利特及其他收藏者可能合法地取得了这些作品——价钱或许低得微不足道。
So far only one among the more than 1,400 works that were taken from Cornelius Gurlitt’s squalid Munich apartment has been positively identified. Marianne Rosenberg, the granddaughter of the renowned French dealer Paul Rosenberg, confirmed that a photograph of a Matisse portrait of a woman wearing pearls that was released by German officials this week matches one owned by her family. (German authorities had previously said that at least one painting used to belong to Rosenberg, who imprinted his gallery’s stamp on the back of all his works.) 
迄今为止，从廓尼琉斯·古尔利特位于慕尼黑的肮脏公寓里没收的1400多幅画作中，只有一幅的来源得到了明确核实。法国知名画商保罗·罗森堡(Paul Rosenberg)的孙女玛丽安娜·罗森堡(Marianne Rosenberg)确认，德国官员本周公布的一幅画的照片和她的家族拥有的画作相符，那幅画是马蒂斯(Matisse)的一幅肖像画，画中人是一名戴珍珠项链的女子。（德国官方此前已经表示，至少有一幅画曾经属于罗森堡，他在自己所有藏品的背面都加盖了自家画廊的印鉴。）
“The Rosenberg family is, of course, delighted to see a color reproduction of the beautiful Matisse which until now had only existed for them as a black and white photograph in their archives of looted art,” Ms. Rosenberg said in an email, adding that the family “is proceeding diligently and carefully with a claim for restitution. The Rosenberg family still insists, however, that the German authorities must promptly do the right thing and provide photographs and lists of all the other items.”
玛丽安娜·罗森堡在一封电子邮件中说，“当然，罗森堡家族很高兴看到马蒂斯精美作品的彩色翻拍图，直到现在，对我们来说，这幅作品都只是家中被劫掠艺术品档案里的一张黑白照片。”她还说，她的家族“正在坚持不懈地认真推动追索的进程”。不过，罗森堡家族依然坚持认为，德国官方必须尽快履行职责，“提供其他所有作品的照片和清单”。