Can a woman effectively run the Federal Reserve? That shouldn’t even be a question. And Janet Yellen, the vice chairwoman of the Fed’s Board of Governors, isn’t just up to the job; by any objective standard, she’s the best-qualified person in America to take over when Ben Bernanke steps down as chairman.
一个女人能够有效地管理美联储吗？这个问题根本就不该被提出来。美联储现任副主席珍妮特·耶伦(Janet Yellen)不止是能胜任这一工作，按照任何客观标准，她是全美国最有资格在本·伯南克(Ben Bernanke)离任后接任主席一职的人选。
Yet there are not one but two sexist campaigns under way against Ms. Yellen. One is a whisper campaign whose sexism is implicit, while the other involves raw misogyny. And both campaigns manage to combine sexism with very bad economic analysis.
然而，现在却出现了两个针对耶伦的性别歧视运动。一个动静不大，其中的性别歧视是隐性的，而另一个则涉及赤裸裸的厌女症。它们还都把性别歧视和糟糕透顶的经济分析结合在一起。
Let’s start with the more extreme, open campaign. Last week, The New York Sun published an editorial attacking Ms. Yellen titled “The Female Dollar.” The editorial took it for granted that the Fed has been following disastrously inflationary monetary policies for years, even though actual inflation is at a 50-year low. And it warned that things would get even worse if the dollar were to become merely “gender-backed.” I am not making this up.
我们先来看看更极端且更公开的一场运动。上周，《纽约太阳报》发表了一篇名为《女性美元》(The Female Dollar)的社论来攻击耶伦。文中想当然地认为，美联储多年来奉行会引发灾难的扩张性货币政策，尽管实际通胀正处于50年来的低点。文章还警告，如果美元变得只有“性别支撑”，那么事情会变得更糟。这可不是我编出来的。
True, The Sun is a marginal publication, with strong gold-bug tendencies, and nobody would pay much attention if the rest of the right had ignored or distanced itself from that editorial. In fact, however, The Wall Street Journal immediately followed up with its own editorial along the same lines, in the course of which it approvingly quoted The Sun piece, female dollar and all.
诚然，《纽约太阳报》是个边缘刊物，带有强烈的金本位倾向；如果其他右翼人士忽略这篇社论或者与之划清界限，那么无人会给予多少关注。不过，《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)紧随其后，按照同样的套路发表了自家的社论，过程中用赞同的语言援引了《纽约太阳报》的“女性美元”等说法。
The other campaign against Ms. Yellen has been subtler, involving repeated suggestions — almost always off the record — that she lacks the “gravitas” to lead the Fed. What does that mean? Well, suppose we were talking about a man with Ms. Yellen’s credentials: distinguished academic work, leader of the Council of Economic Advisers, six years as president of the San Francisco Fed, a record of working effectively with colleagues at the Board of Governors. Would anyone suggest that a man with those credentials was somehow unqualified for office?
另一场反对耶伦的运动则比较隐晦，其中反复暗示，而且几乎全是私下表示，她缺乏领导美联储的“威信”。这到底是什么意思？好吧，假设我们谈论的是一名男性，他具有与耶伦女士同样的资质：出色的学术生涯、白宫经济顾问委员会(Council of Economic Advisers)主席、6年的旧金山联储银行行长，以及在美联储与同僚高效共事的记录。会有任何人暗示，拥有这样资历的男性竟然不够格吗？
Sorry, but it’s hard to escape the conclusion that gravitas, in this context, mainly means possessing a Y chromosome.
不好意思，但很难不得出结论：在这里，“威信”主要意味着拥有Y染色体。
Both anti-Yellen campaigns, then, involve unmistakable sexism, and should be condemned for that reason. As it happens, however, both campaigns have another problem, too: They’re based on bad economic analysis.
那么，两场反对耶伦的运动均是不折不扣的性别歧视，应当因此而遭到谴责。不过，两者实际上还存在另一个问题：它们都基于糟糕的经济分析。
In the case of the “female dollar” types, the wrongheadedness of the economics is as raw and obvious as the sexism. The people shouting that the Fed is “debasing the dollar” have been warning of runaway inflation any day now for almost five years, and they have been wrong every step of the way. Worse, they have shown no willingness to admit having been wrong, let alone to revise their views in the face of experience. They are, in short, the last people in the world you should listen to when it comes to monetary policy.
在“女性美元”论中，严重的经济学谬误与性别歧视一样地明显，不加掩饰。大叫美联储在“贬低美元价值”的那些人，近五年来都在警告通胀随时会失控，但他们每次都错了。更糟的是，他们一点也没展示出认错的意愿，更别说根据实情修改自己的观点了。简单地说，涉及货币政策的时候，大家最不应当听取的就是这些人的意见。
The wrongheadedness of the gravitas crowd, like its sexism, is subtler. But to the extent that having gravitas means something other than being male, it means being what I like to call a Very Serious Person — the kind of person who talks a lot about the need to make tough decisions, which somehow always involves demanding sacrifices on the part of ordinary families while treating the wealthy with kid gloves. And here’s the thing: The Very Serious People have been almost as consistently wrong, although not as spectacularly, as the inflation hysterics.
称耶伦不够有“威信”的人的谬误和他们的性别歧视一样，也更隐晦一些。但除了要是男性，“威信”还意味着其他东西，它意味着成为一个我所说的“非常严肃的人”。这种人会大谈做出艰难决策的必要性，但不知为什么，这些艰难决策总会要求普通家庭做出牺牲，对富人却温柔恭谨。但问题是：一直以来，尽管这些“非常严肃的人”不像歇斯底里的通货膨胀论者那么大错特错，但他们也几乎始终在犯错。
This has been obviously true in the case of budget policy, where the Serious People hijacked the national conversation, shifting it away from job creation to deficits, on the grounds that we were facing an imminent fiscal crisis — which somehow keeps not coming.
在预算政策上则是明显如此。在这个问题上，“严肃的人”把持着全国舆论，以一场财政危机正在逼近我们为由，将舆论从增加就业转移到财政赤字上，但不知为何，所谓的财政危机一直没有到来。
But it has also been true for monetary policy. The Wall Street Journal (news department, not editorial) recently surveyed the forecasting records of top policy makers at the Fed, whom it divided into “hawks” (officials who keep warning that the Fed is doing too much to fight unemployment) and “doves” (who warn that it’s doing too little). It found that the doves made consistently better forecasts, with the best forecaster of all being the most prominent of the doves — Janet Yellen.
在货币政策上也同样如此。前不久，《华尔街日报》（新闻部门，非评论部门）对美联储高层决策者的预测纪录进行了调查，并把他们被分成了“鹰派”（一直警告美联储在应对失业问题上做得太过头的官员）和“鸽派”（警告美联储做得还不够的官员）。该报发现，鸽派的预测始终更准确一些，而预测最准的便是最著名的鸽派珍妮特·耶伦。
The point is that while the gravitas types like to think of themselves as serious men (and I do mean men) who are willing to do what needs to be done, recent history suggests that they’re actually men who are eager to prove their seriousness by doing what doesn’t need to be done, at the public’s expense.
问题是，尽管那些拿“威信”说事的人喜欢把自己当成愿意做当做之事的“严肃男人”（我的确是指男人），最近的历史纪录表明，他们实际上是一群急于以公众利益为代价，通过做不必要的事情来证明自己严肃性的人。
Also, there was a time not along ago when almost everyone in the gravitas crowd, if asked who possessed that mystical quality in its purest form, would surely have answered “Alan Greenspan.” How well did that turn out?
而且，就在不久前，如果被问及谁拥有这种最纯粹的超凡品质，许多现在的“威信”派肯定会回答“艾伦·格林斯潘”(Alan Greenspan)。可事实如何呢？
So is Janet Yellen the only possible candidate to be the next leader of the Fed? Of course not. But the case for someone else should be made on the merits — and, so far, that hasn’t been what’s happening.
那么，珍妮特·耶伦是唯一可能执掌美联储的候选人吗？当然不是。但即使是支持其他人，根据也应当是他们的才干，可迄今为止，事实并非如此。