Someone stole Abraham Lincoln’s hand.
有人偷走了亚伯拉罕·林肯的手。 
The crime had no witnesses. There are no suspects. The police are not even certain when the hand disappeared.
这宗案件没有目击者。没有嫌疑人。甚至警察都不清楚手是什么时候不翼而飞的。
About all anyone knows is that a plaster sculpture of the 16th president’s hand, proudly displayed for years at the Kankakee County Museum, has been missing from its shelf since at least Dec. 11.
目前为止，人们所知道的是，这座16任总统的石膏雕像，多年来屹立于在坎卡基县博物馆中，但是雕像上的手从12月11日开始消失在了展台上。
Any art theft would be jarring in Kankakee, a working-class city about an hour’s drive south of Chicago, but because of its connection to Lincoln, the loss of this sculpture has touched a nerve here.
对于坎卡基位于芝加哥以南一小时车程处，对于这座主要居民为工薪阶层的小城来说，任何艺术盗窃都显得于此地格格不入，但因为和林肯的关系，这座雕像的损失触动了这儿人们的神经。
More than 150 years since the former Illinois legislator ascended to the presidency, Lincoln remains ubiquitous in this state. His face is on the license plates. Illinois calls itself the “Land of Lincoln.” And along the interstate near the Kankakee exit, a giant statue of Honest Abe greets passing motorists from the parking lot of an equipment rental company.
150多年前，前伊利诺伊州议员林肯升任总统之位，目前在该州他仍然无处不在。他的头像就被刻在汽车牌照上。伊利诺伊州自诩为“林肯之地”，就在坎卡基县出口附近的州际公路上，矗立着一座巨大的“诚实亚伯”雕像，它好似从机械租赁公司停车场上向出发的司机们致以问候。
“Lincoln is a local treasure for us,” said Chief Larry Regnier of the Kankakee police, whose department is investigating the theft. So far, Chief Regnier said, promising leads have been hard to come by.
“林肯是我们这儿的财富，”坎卡基县警察局长拉里·莱格内尔（Larry Regnier）说，他的部门正在负责调查这一盗窃案件。莱格内尔局长说，到目前为止，该案还难以找到任何有效线索。
Museum officials had thought that the theft might have been a prank, and that the plaster study would resurface in a few days. The police hoped someone might provide information about the theft after seeing a Facebook post by the department, which included photographs and described the hand as roughly “the size of a 8-10 pound ham.” The local newspaper, The Daily Journal, published an editorial pleading for the thief to come forward.
博物馆官员觉得这桩盗窃可能是一个恶作剧，他们认为几天内石膏部件会重新出现。警方在脸书上发布了帖子，希望有人看到后能提供有效线索。帖子当中包含了几张照片，并将丢失手的尺寸描述为大约“8-10磅火腿的大小”。当地报纸《每日报》（The Daily Journal）还发表一篇社论以敦促盗贼主动自首。
“We are blessed to have such a fine museum with an impressive inventory,” the editorial said, “but the collection is not complete without Lincoln’s hands.”
“我们有幸能拥有这样一座藏品庞大的博物馆”社论这样写道，“但是没有林肯的手，这件藏品是不完整的。”
The hand was the work of George Grey Barnard, a sculptor who spent part of his boyhood in Kankakee around the time that Lincoln was assassinated, and whose admiration of Lincoln was a recurring theme in his art. The sculpture was displayed along with other renderings of Lincoln in a wing of the county historical museum built specifically to showcase Mr. Barnard’s work.
这件雕塑的作者是乔治·格雷·巴纳德（George Grey Barnard），他是一位雕塑家，曾经在林肯遇刺的时期度过了他的童年时光，他对林肯的仰慕成了他艺术作品反复表现的主题。这座雕塑和其他的林肯雕塑作品一道，被陈列在县历史博物馆内一展厅内，以专门用来展示巴纳德先生的作品。
Connie Licon, the museum’s executive director, said the hand sculpture had been on display since at least 1991. This was the first art theft she said she could remember in more than 20 years at the museum.
博物馆的行政主管康妮·莱肯（Connie Licon）说，这件手部雕塑最早从1991年就摆放在了这里。她说这是20年里她所记得的第一起艺术品盗窃事件。
“We were devastated. It just brought us all to the floor,” said Ms. Licon, who was alerted to the theft by a custodian who noticed the vacant spot on the shelf. “We’re a small museum, and we just don’t acquire pieces like this.”
“我们非常伤心。这件事让我们备受打击，”莱肯女士说道，一位看管人员在注意到展架上的空白处后向她进行了报告。“我们是一家小博物馆，是不会去购置这样一件藏品的。”
The police report estimated its worth at $5,000, but described the artwork as “invaluable.”
警方报告估计藏品价值为5000美元，但又将这件藏品描述为“难以估价”。
“There’s almost no way to put a value on something like that because there’s no market,” said Jack Klasey, a longtime museum volunteer and local historian.
“几乎没有任何方法能估算这样一件藏品的价值，因为它没有市场，”杰克·卡拉西说，他是博物馆的长期志愿者和当地历史学家。
The theft occurred at the beginning of the museum’s busiest month. In December, groups of schoolchildren and others streamed through the museum — past the Barnard sculptures, tributes to local sports heroes and artifacts honoring three Kankakee County natives who served as Illinois governor — to admire Christmas trees decorated by civic groups.
这桩盗窃案发生在博物馆最为繁忙月份的开始之时。12月，学生团体和其他参观者纷纷来到博物馆—穿过巴纳德的雕像，向当地的体育明星、以及为纪念曾经担任伊利诺伊州州长的三位坎卡基人的艺术品致敬—他们还会欣赏由当地民间团体装饰的圣诞树。
“I saw it in the newspaper and just thought, ‘Who would go into that small museum and walk out with that hand?’ ” said Trisha Campbell, who stopped by with her co-workers days after the theft was discovered to browse the Gallery of Trees at the museum.
“我从报纸上看到了这个消息后，就觉得‘怎么会有人走进这家小博物馆并带走一只手呢？’”盗案发生后几天，特丽莎·坎贝尔（Trisha Campbell）和她的同事来到博物馆观看树种陈列时这样说道。
In addition to being outraged, museum visitors were perplexed. “I think it’s kind of crazy,” said Kelly Lambert, a college student whose aunt works at the museum. “Why would someone want to walk off with a fake Abraham Lincoln hand?”
愤怒之余，博物馆的参观者们感到十分困惑。“我觉得这真的太疯狂了“大学生凯莉·兰伯特(Kelly Lambert)说，她的姨妈就在这家博物馆工作。“怎么会有人想带走亚布拉罕·林肯的一只假手呢？”
Since the theft, Ms. Licon said curators had removed other small Barnard pieces from the display, fearing that they might also disappear. “Now we’re paranoid,” she said. “And we’re wondering: Is this person going to come back?”
盗窃案发生后，莱肯女士说工作人员已经从展览中撤下了巴纳德的其他小型作品，以防止可能的丢失。“我们目前很警惕”，她说，“这让我们不禁想：这个窃贼还会不会回来？”
There is a precedent for stealing Lincoln memorabilia, said James Cornelius, a curator at the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in Springfield, Ill. In recent decades, Dr. Cornelius said, manuscripts and books with ties to Lincoln have been reported stolen. And more dramatically, in the 1870s, a band of criminals failed in an attempt to steal Lincoln’s body from his tomb in Springfield.
詹姆斯·康奈利斯（James Cornelius），是位于伊利诺伊州斯普林菲尔德的亚伯拉罕·林肯总统图书馆及博物馆的馆长，他说林肯纪念品的偷盗事件是有先例的。康奈利斯博士说，据报道，在最近几十年里，和林肯有关的多件手稿和书籍被盗。让人感到更惊讶的是，19世纪70年代时，一伙犯罪分子企图从斯普林菲尔德的林肯墓中盗走林肯的尸体，但他们最终未能成功。
Many in Kankakee said they assumed that the hand thief lived in the city, and that the crime was more of an impulse than a well-planned heist.
多数人坎卡基居民认为，“盗手贼”仍然居住在城中，这一案件更多像是一场冲动之举，而非是一件精心策划的盗窃案。
Ms. Licon said she hoped the hand resurfaced soon.
莱肯女士说她希望这只手不久后能够重见天日。
“What makes people think what’s someone else’s belongs to them?” she asked. “Just return it in a quiet way. Just put it in a bag and leave it somewhere.”
“到底是什么原因让这些人认为他人之物属于他们自己？”她这样问道，“请悄悄地还给我们，就放进一个袋子里，留在某处就好。”