BERLIN — You could never palm it, flip it or plunk it into a vending machine, but apparently it can be pinched: The world’s largest gold coin, a 221-pound Canadian monster called the Big Maple Leaf, was stolen overnight from the Bode Museum in Berlin, police said Monday.
柏林——你永远不能把它放在掌心、抛起，或者将其塞进自动售货机里，但似乎它可以被顺走：警方周一表示，世界上最大的金币——重达221磅（约合100公斤）、名叫“大枫叶”的加拿大巨币在夜里被人从柏林的波德博物馆(Bode Museum)偷走了。
The coin is about 21 inches in diameter and more than 1 inch thick, with a head of Queen Elizabeth II on one side and a maple leaf on the other. Its face value is 1 million Canadian dollars, but by weight of gold alone it is worth much more than that — as much as $4.5 million at current market prices. The Royal Canadian Mint struck one as a demonstration in 2007 — “Because we can,” the mint says on its website — and then made a few more for well-heeled collectors to buy; five have been sold so far.
这枚硬币的直径大约21英寸（约合53厘米），厚逾1英寸（约合2.5厘米），一面是女王伊丽莎白二世的头像，另一面是枫叶。其面值为100万加元，但仅以黄金的重量计算，其市场价值高达450万美元，远超面值。加拿大皇家造币厂(The Royal Canadian Mint)在2007年制作了一枚这样的硬币用于展示——“因为我们有能力做出来”，铸造厂在其网站上说——之后又多做了几枚，供有钱的收藏家购买；到目前为止，已售出五枚。
Berlin police said in a statement that burglars had apparently broken in through a window above the commuter railway tracks at the back of the museum. Officers found a ladder lying on the elevated railway’s roadbed. Police declined to say whether there were security cameras monitoring that window, but they said the coin had been kept behind bulletproof glass.
柏林警方在一份声明中说，窃贼是从博物馆后面通勤铁路上方的一扇窗子破窗而入的。警察发现一架梯子躺在高架铁路的路基上。警方拒绝透露是否有安全摄像头监控该窗口，但他们说这枚硬币是用防弹玻璃保护起来的。
The museum is near the Hackescher Markt, a public square in Berlin that is home to a number of late-night bars and cafes. Police appealed for clues from anyone who had been in the area.
博物馆附近是哈克市场(Hackescher Markt)，这是柏林的一处公共广场，有一些深夜酒吧和咖啡馆。警方呼吁曾到过该地段的人提供线索。
Given the coin’s weight, authorities said they suspect that more than one person must have been involved in the crime. A police team that specializes in art crimes has been called in to investigate.
鉴于硬币的重量，当局表示，他们怀疑是团伙作案。一个专门从事艺术品犯罪的警察小组已经接到参与调查的通知。
The Bode Museum is part of the complex belonging to the Stiftung Preussischer Kulturbesitz, on an island in the Spree River. In addition to paintings, sculptures and other works of art, the museum displays what it says is one of the largest collections of coins and medals in the world, with about 500,000 objects. The Big Maple Leaf appeared to be the only thing the thieves took.
波德博物馆所在的建筑物属于普鲁士文化遗产基金会(Stiftung Preussischer Kulturbesitz)，位于在施普雷河的一个岛上。除了绘画、雕塑和其他艺术作品之外，该馆还拥有世界上最大的硬币和奖牌收藏，数量大约为50万件。“大枫叶”似乎是盗贼偷走的唯一藏品。