The United States Olympic Committee seems ready to bid for the 2024 Summer Games. But the hard part is deciding which of the four finalists — Boston, Washington, Los Angeles and San Francisco — has the best chance of being chosen by the International Olympic Committee. The U.S.O.C. could make its selection as soon as this week, so we asked New York Times reporters in each city to describe the view from each place.
美国奥委会看来要准备竞争2024年夏季奥运会的主办权了。但要在波士顿、华盛顿、洛杉矶和旧金山这四个最终入围名单中挑选出那个最有机会赢得国际奥委会青睐的城市，可不是一件容易的事情。美国奥委会最快本周就会做出决定，所以我们请来时报驻这四座城市的记者，让他们写写自己眼中的这场竞争。
Boston
波士顿
A couple of years ago, The Onion ran a satirical piece about Bostonians pretending to live in a big city. It said residents “buzz about their daily routines in a delightful hubbub of excitement as if they lived in a major American metropolis.”
一两年前，《洋葱新闻》(The Onion)登过一篇文章，讽刺波士顿人假装自己是生活在一座大城市里。文章写道，这里的居民“以一种可爱的兴奋热闹劲儿过着他们的日常生活，仿佛真以为自己住在一个美国大都会呢”。
Some people laughed, some were defensive. But few disputed that Boston is wrapped up in an existential debate with itself about whether it is a “world-class” city.
对于这篇文章，有人哈哈大笑，有人则为这座城市辩护。但有一点倒是争议不大，那就是波士顿全身心地投入到自己究竟是不是一座“世界级”城市的存在主义的辩论中。
Despite its many obvious assets — world-renowned universities, top-flight medical centers, a thriving biotech-driven innovation economy and championship sports teams, not to mention Tom Brady and David Ortiz — Boston still has an inferiority complex. And as it makes its first serious bid to host the Olympics, it shows.
虽然这里有着众多为大家所认同的优势——世界闻名的大学、一流的医疗机构、以生物科技为创新驱动力的繁荣经济、冠军运动队，更别提汤姆·布拉迪（Tom Brady，著名的橄榄球运动员——译注）和戴维·奥尔蒂斯（David Ortiz，著名的棒球运动员——译注）这些如雷贯耳的名字，但波士顿始终有着一种自卑情结。随着该城首次正儿八经地竞标奥运会主办权，这种情结也是一览无遗。
Some seem to think that being picked to put on the 2024 Summer Games is entwined with mythic world-class status.
有些人似乎认为被选为2024夏季奥运会的举办城市，是与所谓的世界级城市地位息息相关的一件事。
“Boston is a global leader in innovation, and in order to remain a global leader, we must be aspirational,” the pro-Olympic Boston2024 website says.
“波士顿在创新方面是全球的领导者，为了保持领导者地位，我们必须充满对胜利的抱负，”一个主张举办奥运会的网站Boston2024写道。
To Boston’s mayor, Martin J. Walsh, an initial skeptic of the bid, hosting the Olympics “puts us on a scale not too many cities can claim.”
对于波士顿的市长马丁·J·沃尔什来说（起初他对于争办奥运持怀疑态度），主办奥运“把我们放到了只有为数不多的城市所具备的级数上”。
Mike Ross, a former Boston city councilman, argued that the Olympics are a good idea “and not just for the reasons one might think, such as helping us get over our persistent ‘smaller than New York’ Napoleon complex.”
波士顿前市议会议员迈克·罗斯(Mike Ross)认为，举办奥运是一件好事，“不仅仅是大家能想到的那些原因，比如帮我们克服一直以来的‘比纽约要小’的拿破仑情结。”
Whether winning an Olympics confers world-class status, Boston’s bid contains an inherent paradox: Its dream to make it big is not that big.
不管赢得奥运会的举办权是否会带来世界级城市的地位，波士顿的努力包含一个自相矛盾之处：它的大城梦想其实并没有那么大。
Boston’s modest $4.5 billion proposal envisions a new Olympic model: a walkable, bikeable, sustainable Games that uses mostly pre-existing structures. This compact city of 646,000 plans a downsized, compressed, antisprawl Olympics. No venue would be more than a 10-minute walk from a subway stop or a commuter rail line.
波士顿的承办方案只有区区45亿美元，它想像出一个全新的奥运模式：一个主要利用现有建筑、可以用步行或骑自行车作为交通方式、具有可持续发展性的运动会。这座有着64.6万人口的小巧城市计划的是一个规模缩小的、紧凑的、不搞场馆散乱分布的奥运会。所有的比赛地点，都在地铁站或者通勤火车线路10分钟步行路程之内。
The International Olympic Committee has been forced to encourage this kind of thinking. Interest in hosting has declined as potential hosts watched costs spiral out of control for recent Games in Beijing ($40 billion) and Sochi, Russia ($50 billion).
国际奥委会也被迫鼓励此种思路。一些有兴趣主办奥运会的城市看到最近的北京奥运会和俄罗斯索契冬奥会的成本节节攀升，直至失控（北京400亿美元，索契500亿美元），纷纷打起了退堂鼓。
Still, one might wonder if Boston’s proposal was actually made by The Onion: The athletes could live in college dormitories that are empty during the summer; the modular housing of an Olympic village could later become new dorms; and a proposed $700 million Olympic Stadium would be temporary, so it could be razed or relocated.
然而，波士顿的方案还是让人忍不住疑惑，这不会是《洋葱新闻》整出来的方案吧：运动员住在暑假空出来的大学宿舍；标准间搭造的奥运村可以变成新的宿舍楼；一座计划投资7亿美元的奥运主场馆将是临时性的，会后可以拆掉或者搬到其他地方。
Does anyone think this might be carrying Yankee frugality too far? And are Olympic bigwigs serious about not wanting an extravaganza?
会不会有人因此而认为北方佬太抠门？那些奥委会要人真的对铺张华丽不再感冒了吗？
Either way, the Boston promoters are trying to win over naysayers by promising tangible benefits like upgrades in roads, bridges and public transit. But many wonder why it would take the Olympics to get those much-needed improvements. The Boston Globe columnist Joan Vennochi wrote that the promoters were giving Bostonians an impossible choice: Buy in to their bid to get a modern transportation system, or “be labeled a small-minded, provincial party-pooper.”
不管怎样，波士顿举办奥运会的推动者正在努力争取那些唱反调的人，他们许以种种实在的好处，比如修路、修桥，更新公交系统。但许多人都想知道，为什么基础设施的改进非得通过奥运会来完成。《波士顿环球报》(The Boston Globe)的专栏作家琼·文诺奇(Joan Vennochi)写道，波士顿举办奥运会的推动者向波士顿人提供了一个棘手的选择：想要一个现代的交通系统就要支持办奥运，否则“就要被贴上心胸狭隘、没见过世面的扫兴鬼的标签”。
And there you have it: Without the Olympics, Boston cannot be world class. KATHARINE Q. SEELYE
所以你看：不举办奥运会的话，波士顿就不可能成为世界级的城市。KATHARINE Q. SEELYE
Los Angeles
洛杉矶
Have you been to Boston? It’s boring.
去过波士顿吗？那儿没劲透了。
Sorry, Washington: No nation wants to send athletes to the home of the National Security Agency.
对不起了华盛顿：没有一个国家愿意把运动员送进国家安全局的老窝。
That leaves Los Angeles with one actual competitor, San Francisco. It’s up to you, International Olympic Committee, but the population of that peninsula city — already terribly full of its Apple-Google-Uber self — would very likely burst into a fireball of smugness if it was also given the 2024 Olympics. Think it over.
所以洛杉矶只剩下一个真正的对手，那就是旧金山。国际奥委会，决定在你。但是那座半岛城市现在已经到处都是苹果、谷歌、优步公司那些自负的家伙们了，如果它再获得2024年奥运会的主办权，那里的人肯定得意到要爆炸了。好好想想这个吧。
Los Angeles, on the other hand, is the perfect choice.
换句话说，洛杉矶才是完美的选择。
The Chinese will be running Hollywood by then (except for North Korea’s Democratic Republic of Sony Pictures), so their athletes will feel right at home. To save on housing costs, David Geffen can offer to host the men’s gymnastics team at his mansion. And also the men’s water polo team.
到时候中国已经接管了好莱坞（除了归北朝鲜民主主义人民共和国领导的索尼影业），所以他们的运动员肯定会觉得宾至如归。为了节省住宿开销，男子体操队可以住进大卫·格芬(David Geffen)的大宅子，男子水球队也能住进去。
Beach volleyball? Hello.
沙滩排球？不成问题。
True, there will be no water for the aquatic center. Perhaps the pools could be filled with San Pellegrino. Or perhaps the divers could simply be trained to land in one of those itty-bitty washtubs, the way they used to at the circus. We’ll work it out.
没错，到时候水上运动中心里不会有水。没准可以用圣培露矿泉水灌满泳池。又或者跳水运动员可以练习着跳进一个小洗澡盆里，以前的马戏团就是这么干的。我们总会有办法的。
Imagine the opening ceremony Los Angeles could put together: Meryl Streep riding sidesaddle on a dolphin. Magic Johnson and Mama Kardashian carrying the torch. Fireworks sponsored by “Star Wars: Episode Ad Nauseam: Does It Really Matter What We Subtitle These Anymore, Part 1.”
试想在洛杉矶举办的开幕式可以凑出什么东西来：梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)骑海豚。魔术师约翰逊(Magic Johnson)和卡戴珊大妈(Mama Kardashian)举火炬。焰火由《星球大战：没完没了的第N集：起什么副标题还重要吗，第一部》赞助。
Look, there are pros and cons for every potential host city. Pro: Los Angeles would become more health-conscious than it already is. Con: Los Angeles would become more health-conscious than it already is.
你看，关于每个主办城市都有赞同和反对意见。正方：洛杉矶本来就够有健康意识的了，到时候会更有健康意识。反方：洛杉矶本来就够有健康意识的了，到时候会更有健康意识。
But the City of Angels, really and truly, is a terrific choice. Get under the hood, beyond its silly celebrity facade, and you will see how serious a contender it is:
但是这座天使之城的确是一个非常好的选择。透过愚蠢的名人文化假象，深入它的内部，你会发现它的确是一个有力的竞争者。
Los Angeles is bigger than Boston, Washington and San Francisco combined. More than 30 countries have their second largest population in Los Angeles, a region of roughly 19 million people, giving a home-field advantage to more than Americans.
洛杉矶比波士顿、华盛顿和旧金山加起来都大。这里的人口大约是1900万，有30多个国家都在洛杉矶拥有为数最多的海外侨民，除了美国人，其他不少国家在这里也拥有主场优势。
Naysayers will bray that Los Angeles has hosted the Summer Games, twice. True, and that experience could be critical. Besides, London has been an Olympic city three times, so get over it.
反对者会大吵大闹说洛杉矶已经两次主办过夏季奥运会了。确实如此，但这种经验也是很重要的。另外，伦敦还主办过三次奥运会呢，所以就别纠结这个了。
Among subway construction, road improvements and a desperately needed modernization of the Los Angeles International Airport, $40 billion worth of infrastructure enhancements are underway.
除了地铁建设，地面道路也在改善、亟需现代化的洛杉矶国际机场正在进行翻修，还有价值400亿美元的基础设施改善工作也在进行中。
In other words, stuff is being built in Los Angeles — unlike in San Francisco, where something as seemingly simple as improving four grass soccer fields last year was met with litigation, protests and a ballot measure. (For real.)
换句话说，在洛杉矶，建设工作已经在进行，而旧金山呢？在那儿，去年连改善四块带草皮的足球场这么简单的一件事都吃了官司、遭到抗议，还得做投票决议（这是真的）。
Speaking of roads, everyone worries about Southern California’s famous freeway gridlock, which can indeed be formidable. But in 2011 and 2012, when a particularly busy stretch of Interstate 405 was closed for days at a time to accommodate construction, the opposite of Carmageddon happened: the streets emptied, with residents foregoing unnecessary trips.
至于道路问题，大家都担心南加州著名的高速路交通堵塞，确实很可怕。但在2011年到2012年，繁忙的405州际公路关闭数日进行建设期间，不但没有发生末日大混战，相反街道都空了，居民们把非必要的行程提前，以便错过这段时间。
Finally: Have you been to Boston? BROOKS BARNES
最后，你去过波士顿吗？ BROOKS BARNES
Washington
华盛顿
Unlike other cities that hide their goodies far from the airport, the glories of your nation’s capital are breathtakingly beneath you in your final approach. There is Arlington National Cemetery! Hello, Jefferson Memorial! Wow, I can practically touch the Washington Monument from my seat! (Fun game: Listen to a passenger near you describe with great authority and total inaccuracy what they see. My personal favorite was the guy who called the United States Capitol a memorial to George Washington.)
不同于其他那些把好东西藏在离机场很远处的城市，你国首都的美景在你的飞机落地之前，就令人激动地在你下方一览无遗。那里是阿灵顿国家公墓！你好，杰佛逊纪念堂！哇，我几乎在座位上就能摸到华盛顿纪念碑！（有趣的游戏：听你旁边的乘客非常权威的口吻但又完全不准确地描述他们所看到的景致。我个人最喜欢的是曾有个人称美国国会大厦是一个乔治·华盛顿的纪念馆）
The thrills may ebb once you try to exit the airport.
一旦你试图走出机场，这些兴奋感就可能随之退去。
A lack of proper signage, the absence of left-turn lanes, terrifying traffic circles for which the right of way seems to go to the fastest driver and an unpredictable public transit system can vex the visitor.
缺乏恰当的引导标识，没有左转道，似乎只有反应最敏捷的司机才能搞定的环形交叉路口，和一个让外地人头痛的公共交通系统。
As such, the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, for which there is a Twitter handle devoted to its daily bad deeds, needs to step up the maintenance right quick if we are to host the 2024 Summer Olympics. Congress, fond of meddling in the district’s business, should help.
鉴于如此，如果我们要主办2024年的夏季奥运会的话，华盛顿都会区交通局（这里有一个Twitter账号，致力于发布有关它的日常坏事）需要快点加强交通系统的维护。喜欢插手特区事务的国会也应该来帮忙。
But, hey, you’re here to watch sports. The city recently approved the construction of a new soccer stadium, which would keep company with our lovely home to baseball’s Nationals, right in the heart of the city, as well as FedEx Field, Verizon Center, the Armory and various University of Maryland venues. At last, R.F.K. Stadium, which is, politely, an embarrassingly decrepit pit, would almost certainly be renovated, or, better yet, demolished, with a glorious new Olympic stadium in its place. So stadiums: We’ve got it more or less covered.
不过，嘿，你是来这里看体育比赛的。该城最近批准了建设一个新的足球场，它就在城市的中心，会和我们华盛顿国民棒球队的可爱主场，以及联邦快递球场、凡泽中心、军械库运动场和马里兰大学的各种场馆未伴。最后，罗伯特·F·肯尼迪纪念体育场这个即使礼貌地说也算是一个令人尴尬的破坑，基本上一定会被翻新，或者更为理想的是被拆除，并在原址上建一个辉煌、崭新的奥运馆。所以从体育场馆来说：我们或多或少够用了。
The Potomac River is a world-class kayaking venue and a possible host for rowing, and the Anacostia is well on its way. Our topography is good for cycling, and we have a strong — even White House-centered — history with equestrian sports. The area has produced champions in swimming, running and triathlon. We host a pro tennis tournament every year, as well as pro golf tournaments. In short, the hypercompetitive neurosis that fuels our political culture has been good for athleticism.
波托马克河是一个世界级的皮划艇场地，也可作为赛艇项目的主场，而阿纳科斯蒂亚河也已准备好了。我们的地势很适合自行车赛事，并且我们在马术比赛方面——可以说以白宫为中心——有很强的历史背景。这个地区孕育了游泳、赛跑及铁人三项的冠军。我们每年都举办职业网球赛和高尔夫球赛。总之，刺激我们政治文化的超强度竞争神经症对运动竞赛同样有益。
You will hear bad things about our summer weather. It’s true. But there is an upside: In late summer, locals empty the place out, which means plenty of housing will be available. (Anyone want first dibs on a well-situated house in the northwest quadrant? It currently comes with an 11-year-old who can walk you through the cable system and a teenager who will block you on Twitter.)
你会听到关于我们这里夏日天气的坏话。那些说法也没错。不过从另一面看，在夏末，本地人会走空，意味着大量房屋可用。（谁想优先要一个西北区域位置很好房子吗？现在，这里附赠一个能手把手教你使用有线电视系统的11岁孩子和一个会在Twitter上拉黑你的青少年。）
Amid the obligatory debates of what will become of an Olympic village in a town in desperate need of affordable housing once revelers hit the road, we tend to keep the focus on tourists. The two-for-one thrills of monuments, free Smithsonian museums and the maligned but majestic center of government rival all the other cities for non-Olympic recreation.
一个亟需负担得起的房屋的城市一旦成为奥运村，当狂欢的人群涌上街头，会变成什么样？在这不可避免的辩论中，我们还是倾向于以游客为重。除了看奥运会，这里还有各种纪念场所，免费的史密森尼博物馆和邪恶却壮观的政府中心，使华盛顿在奥运以外的娱乐休闲方面胜过所有其他城市。
There is plenty to eat here now, and our crab cakes can edge out Los Angeles sushi any day. We have better pizza now, too. No, seriously, we do. JENNIFER STEINHAUER
现在这里好吃的也很多， 我们的蟹饼随时都可以击败洛杉矶的寿司。我们现在还有更好吃的披萨。不，真的，我们确实有。JENNIFER STEINHAUER
San Francisco
旧金山
Secretly, and somewhat smugly, San Franciscans love that so many other people love their city. They see their home as one of the most beautiful and interesting cities in the world, too. Validation is nice.
很多外地人都喜欢旧金山，旧金山人暗地里带着点沾沾自喜。他们觉得自己的家是世界上最美丽、最有意思的城市之一。这样的信心是好事。
But with all due respect, many in San Francisco would rather you do your fawning from a distance. Traffic is bad enough without the double-decker tourist buses blocking the view atop Lombard Street or clogging the Golden Gate Bridge.
但是恕我直言，旧金山也有很多东西让外人忍不住皱眉。交通已经够糟的了，更何况还有双层旅游巴士总在九曲花街挡住人们视线，或是在金门大桥上阻塞交通。
So it is with some reluctance that the following suggestion is made: San Francisco would be quite a sensible place to hold the Summer Olympics.
所以下面的建议带一点勉强：旧金山或许是夏季奥林匹克运动会主办城市的明智之选。
The Bay Area’s bid can promise cool summer weather (with virtually no rain), a decent mass-transit system (not cable cars) and a collection of well-suited venues spread (but not too far) across the landscape.
湾区的有利条件包括凉爽的夏日气候（而且几乎不下雨）、还不错的公共交通系统（没有有轨电车），以及遍布全城的一系列便利的场馆（相距不算远）。
San Francisco has its cultural critics, but it would show the world a United States that is environmentally friendly, diverse in many ways and technologically advanced. And if we in the Bay Area were the type to brag, we would add that the scenery is incredible.
旧金山文化有其批评者，但它可以向整个世界展示美国是多么环保、在各个方面都是如此多样化，拥有先进的技术。反正我们湾区的人有点喜欢自夸，那不妨再加一句，这儿的风景美极了。
But the key lies in the venues. In these post-Athens and Beijing days, no one wants to spend money on new ones, and San Francisco is not looking to use the Olympics as a means to a bigger, urban-renewal end.
但最重要的还是场馆。经历了雅典与北京奥运会，没有人会再想花大钱盖新场馆，而旧金山也不打算把奥运会当做城市大规模翻修的机会。
There are lots of colleges and two major universities (Stanford and the University of California, Berkeley) with huge stadiums, arenas and dormitories. There are plenty of places to house athletes and hold smaller events.
这里有很多学院，还有两所大型综合性大学（斯坦福大学和加利福尼亚大学伯克利分校），它们都拥有大型体育场馆和宿舍。有很多地方可以供运动员居住并举办小型赛事。
Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara is hosting the Super Bowl in 2016. A planned waterfront basketball arena for the Warriors should open in a few years. A Major League Soccer stadium is being built in San Jose. If baseball and softball return to the Olympic docket, well, there are plenty of places to play those, too, including two Major League Baseball stadiums.
圣塔克拉拉的李维斯体育场将举办2016年的超级碗赛事。一座海滨篮球场将在几年内开放，作为金州勇士队的主场。圣何塞正在修建美国足球大联盟球场。如果棒球和垒球回归奥林匹克赛事，这儿也有不少场地，包括两座棒球大联盟体育场。
San Francisco organizers are not quite sure where to put track and field and the opening and closing ceremonies. One idea is to build a temporary stadium south of shuttered Candlestick Park. That sounds like something Athens would do.
旧金山的组织者们还没决定在什么地方举办田径赛事和开闭幕式。有人建议在目前已关闭的烛台公园以南建一座临时场馆。这听上去有点像雅典干的事。
Until that is figured out, imagine sailing between the Golden Gate and Bay bridges in San Francisco Bay; the same course that was perfect for the summer-long America’s Cup in 2013 is good enough for a couple weeks of Olympics.
在这个问题解决之前，让我们还是先想想在金门大桥与旧金山海湾的各个桥梁之间扬帆航行的感觉吧，2013年的整个夏天，这里都在举办美国杯帆船比赛，过程相当完美，为时两周的奥运赛事放到这里肯定也不错。
Picture a hilly marathon tracing up the crooked block of Lombard Street. Or mountain biking in Marin County, the birthplace of the sport. Or the triathlon off Alcatraz, beach volleyball at City Hall, rowing in McCovey Cove. And if the Olympics still insist on golf, there is the Olympic Club or Pebble Beach.
试想在九曲花街蜿蜒起伏的道路上举行的马拉松赛事，或者在马林郡山间举行的山地自行车赛事——这项运动就是在那里诞生的。还有在阿尔卡特拉斯岛周边举办的铁人三项赛事、在市政厅附近举办的沙滩排球赛事、在麦考维湾举办的划艇赛事。另外，如果高尔夫球仍然留在奥运赛事之中，这里有奥林匹克俱乐部高尔夫球场和卵石滩高尔夫球场。
Supporters of Boston, Washington, Los Angeles might combat their disadvantages with snarky comparisons about summers in San Francisco and the coldest winters. Summer is fog season, and daytime temperatures in patches of the city can get stuck in the 50s. That is why armies of entrepreneurs sell cheap San Francisco jackets and sweatshirts to tourists who expected a July trip to Fisherman’s Wharf would include sunshine and warmth.
波士顿、华盛顿和洛杉矶的支持者们为了掩饰自己的缺点，会恶声恶气地说旧金山的夏天和最冷的冬天差不多（传说这句话出自马克·吐温之口——译注）。这里的夏天是多雾的季节，在有些地方，白天的温度让人感觉好像是在50年代。所以旧金山的大批商家可以把便宜的外套和运动衫卖给在7月拜访渔人码头，还指望能享受到阳光和温暖的游客。