A LITTLE-NOTICED but important change in the American workplace is about to occur. Sometime in the next month, the Department of Labor is expected to announce an adjustment to the Fair Labor Standards Act. The change will raise the salary threshold for overtime. Currently, if you are a salaried employee and make less than $23,660 per year, you are eligible for time and a half pay for any hours over 40 per week. The update, which is likely to at least double that threshold, will affect millions of salaried employees.
美国职场即将发生一项转变，虽然不显眼，实则意义重大。下个月的某个时间点，劳工部将会宣布对《公平劳动标准法》(Fair Labor Standards Act)进行一项调整，提高雇主必须支付加班费的员工薪资门槛。按照目前的规定，假如领薪员工的年收入少于2万3660美元（约合14万6910元人民币），那么在周工作时长超过40个小时后就适用于1.5倍的加班工资。劳工部的这项调整很可能会把2万3660美元的门槛提高到至少两倍的水平，将会影响到成百上千万的员工。
In 1975, the last year the threshold was significantly raised, 60 percent of salaried workers fell within the requirement for overtime pay. Today, only 8 percent do, according to statistics compiled by the Economic Policy Institute. Under the new rule, millions of workers will be reclassified. Businesspeople oppose the change, calling it a job killer. Supporters anticipate a positive effect on job creation, income inequality and wage stagnation.
这一门槛上次大幅提高是在1975年，当时60%的领薪员工符合拿加班费的标准。时至今日，根据经济政策研究所(Economic Policy Institute)搜集的数据，这个数据仅为8%。按照新的标准，成百上千万的劳动者将被重新归类。商界反对这一调整，称其扼杀工作机会。支持者则认为，此举将会对就业创造、收入差距及薪资停滞问题起到正面作用。
But this change also speaks to a subject I have been concerned with for many years: the clash between the finite amount of time employees actually have versus the desire of employers to treat time as an inexhaustible resource. And this issue affects everyone, whether eligible for overtime or not.
不过，这次的调整还涉及到我关心多年的一个话题：员工时间的有限性与雇主将时间视为取之不尽用之不竭的资源之间的矛盾。这个议题影响到每个人，不管你是否有资格领加班费。
For over two decades I was a business consultant, advising companies trying to adjust to increased numbers of women and working parents in their work forces. Many significant changes occurred during this period: the introduction of flextime, new child care provisions, the increased ability to work from home. But the one change that always seemed to get in the way of other improvements was and still is the growing demand for longer working hours.
本人从事商务顾问工作逾20年，一直在为那些努力适应女性员工和已为人父母的员工人数增加的企业出谋划策。在此期间，职场发生了许多重大变化：出现了灵活工作时间、新的育儿规定，还有在家办公的可能性的提高。然而，无论是过去还是现在，似乎总会阻碍其他进步的一项变化是，雇主对拉长工作时间的要求在不断增多。
Employees in the United States currently work more hours than workers in any of the world’s 10 largest economies except Russia (though we don’t have good data for China). When everything over 40 hours is free to the employer, the temptation to demand more is almost irresistible. But for most employees, the ones exempt from overtime rules, their managers have little incentive to look for ways to use their time more efficiently.
眼下，美国员工的工作时长在世界十大经济体中高居第二，仅次于俄罗斯（不过我们缺乏关于中国的可靠数据）。当40个小时之外的时间可被雇主免费支配时，不断索取的诱惑几乎无法抵御。然而，对于不适用于加班费规定的多数员工而言，他们的老板始终没有多少动力来寻求更有效率地利用员工时间的途径。
It’s not just a question of getting paid fairly for every hour you work. It’s about using the time well. What I’ve learned is that an overwhelming majority of employees do not resent spending time that is clearly directed toward customers or the success of the enterprise. What they resent is time spent on work that is of no clear value: time wasted, or mismanaged. Countless parents, for example, told me that they had sat through poorly planned and seemingly pointless meetings at day’s end while thinking about their baby, feeling that their precious parenting time was being usurped by a feckless manager.
这里头不光是每小时的工作时间都应获得公平报酬的问题，而是如何明智地利用时间。我的经验是，绝大多数员工并不排斥在明确指向客户或有利于企业成功的事情上花时间。他们排斥的是在没有明确价值的工作上耗时间，也就是那些浪费或管理不善的时间。比方说，无数的为人父母的员工告诉我，他们不得不在临近下班的时间里熬完会议。这些会没有经过良好计划，看起来没完没了，而他们一边熬一边想着孩子，觉着自己宝贵的育儿时间被低效的老板夺走了。
Others talked about memos, emails and work that goes nowhere. We encountered endless stories of parents being told that a last-minute task was urgent and needed to be done immediately, no matter how many extra hours it took, only to have any action related to it languish for weeks. Companies I worked with tried to reduce unnecessary work by devising “quality programs” and restructuring initiatives. But employees rarely felt any time relief from these efforts. Since there was no added cost for longer hours, the incentives were just not there to reduce total time worked, even after needless or less productive tasks were eliminated.
还有一些人会谈起陷入泥潭的备忘录、电子邮件和工作任务。我们一再听到的故事是，为人父母的员工被告知，某项最后时刻下达的任务非常紧急，必须马上完成，不管要加班多久，结果却发现，与之相关的活动却拖了好几周没有进展。我提供过咨询服务的不少企业试图通过设计“高质量的项目”和调整规划来减少不必要的工作。然而，在雇员眼中，这些行动省出时间的情况很少见。既然加班不会带来额外的成本，那么就根本不存在减少总工作量的动力，就算是在消除了不必要或成效低的任务之后。
I once did a small study for a Fortune 10 company in which I talked to about 20 employees who were allowed to work four days a week and keep their jobs and benefits. These women (yes, all women) still had to meet all their previous responsibilities, for 80 percent of their previous salaries. I expected some anger and resentment, but they turned out to be some of the happiest employees I ever talked to. They told me that it was much easier to back out of meetings or work that they knew would be a waste of time. They loved being able to focus on the things that really mattered.
我曾经给一家《财富》十强的企业做过一项小实验，有大约20人参与。这批员工每周工作四天，同时保留职位和福利。这些女性（的确，全部是女员工）还是需要承担之前的所有工作职责，而薪水是以前的80%。我以为她们会有一些愤怒与不满情绪，结果却发现她们的开心程度在我接触过的员工中名列前茅。她们告诉我，对于那些明知是浪费时间的会议或工作，如今想避开的话要容易多了。她们很高兴能把注意力集中到真正重要的事情上。
We are a tired, stressed and overworked nation, which has many negative consequences for our personal health and the care of our children. As a nation, we work harder and longer than almost all of our competitors, and much of that work is uncompensated. We accept that that is the way it has to be, without much questioning.
我们美国人疲惫不堪、压力重重、加班加点，而这会对我们的个人健康和子女养育带来诸多负面影响。整体而言，我们国家的人比几乎所有的竞争对手都更努力地工作、时间更长，而且其中不少工作并未得到报酬。我们却视之为常态，没有提出多少质疑。
This summer’s change in overtime rules can be an opening round in a long-overdue examination of how our finite time is used and compensated. It’s also very likely that workplaces will, by necessity, become more efficient and well managed as companies strive to avoid paying overtime. And even when long hours are truly necessary, more employees will be fairly compensated. Working parents who qualify stand to benefit from fewer hours at work, without giving up income.
今夏对加班条例的调整可以作为一个契机，让我们开启早该进行的审视行动：如何使用我们有限的时间，并为之提供报酬。而且，由于企业会尽力避免支付加班费，职场也很可能出于这种必要性而变得效率更高、管理更佳。就算的确有必要长时间工作，那么员工也会得到合理的补偿。符合条件的父母员工将会从工作时间的缩减中获益，而无需放弃收入。
Time is our personal currency. We parcel it out, hour by hour, to meet the demands placed on us. We all pay a steep price, as individuals and as a nation, when we can’t meet our most important obligations. Having employers pay more for the time they demand of lower- and middle-income workers is a good way to help us focus on these larger questions.
时间是我们个人的硬通货。我们将它一小时一小时地分配出去，用以满足放到我们肩上的种种要求。当不能履行最重要的责任时，我们都在付出沉重的代价，不管是个人，还是整个国家。要求雇主为他们向中低收入员工索取的时间给出更多的补偿，是帮助我们关注这些更大的问题的一种好办法。