WEST COVINA, Calif. — After a boozy Saturday night, Sarah Maguire awoke the next morning to find that her iPhone was gone. Her roommate’s phone was gone, too. Were they at the bar, she wondered, or in the cab?
加利福尼亚州西科维纳——经过周六夜的一场痛饮，莎拉·玛古埃尔(Sarah Maguire)在第二天早上醒来，发现她的iPhone不见了。室友的手机也不见了。当时她心想，是丢在了酒吧，还是出租车上？
Using the Find My iPhone app on her computer, she found that someone had taken the phones to a home in this Los Angeles exurb, 30 miles east of her West Hollywood apartment.
通过电脑上的“查找iPhone”(Find My iPhone)应用，她发现有人把手机带到了洛杉矶远郊一座民宅，位于她的西好莱坞公寓以东30英里（约合48公里）处。
So Ms. Maguire, a slight, 26-year-old yoga instructor, did what a growing number of phone theft victims have done: She went to confront the thieves — and, to her surprise, got the phones back.
和越来越多手机盗窃受害人一样，这位现年26岁、身材娇小的瑜伽教练采取了行动：她直接去找了窃贼——意外的是，最终她追回了她们的手机。
“When I told my mom what I did, she thought I was crazy,” Ms. Maguire said.
“我跟我妈说了这事，她说我疯了，”玛古埃尔说。
With smartphone theft rampant, apps like Find My iPhone offer a new option for those desperate to recover their devices, allowing victims like Ms. Maguire to act when the police will not. But the emergence of this kind of do-it-yourself justice — an unintended result of the proliferation of GPS tracking apps — has stirred worries among law enforcement officials that people are putting themselves in danger, taking disproportionate risks for the sake of an easily replaced item.
眼下智能手机盗窃活动猖獗，“查找iPhone”等应用给迫切希望找回设备的人一个新的选择，类似玛古埃尔这样的受害人可以去做一些警察不会做的事。但是，这种因GPS追踪应用的普及而意外产生的自助司法现象，引起了一些执法官员的担忧，他们认为人们这是在将自己置于危险境地，为了一个可以轻易替换的物品而冒这样的风险是不合理的。
“This is a new phenomenon — it’s not simply running after the person to grab the phone,” said George Gascón, the San Francisco district attorney and a former police chief. “It opens up the opportunity for people to take the law into their own hands, and they can get themselves into really deep water if they go to a location where they shouldn’t go.”
“这是个新现象——不是为了拿回手机而追着人跑那么简单，”旧金山地区检察官、前警察局长乔治·加斯孔(George Gascón)说，“它带来了一种机会，让人们可以把法律攥在自己手里，一旦他们去到一个不该去的地方，有可能会惹上大麻烦。”
“Some have been successful,” Mr. Gascón said. “Others have gotten hurt.”
“有些人成功了，”加斯孔说，“还有些人则因此受到伤害。”
Smartphones have become irresistibly delectable morsels for thieves. More than three million were stolen last year, according to a survey by Consumer Reports. Since 2011, cellphone thefts have risen more than 26 percent in Los Angeles; robberies involving phones were up 23 percent in San Francisco just last year. In New York City, more than 18 percent of all grand larcenies last year involved Apple products.
智能手机已经成为窃贼眼中一道无法抗拒的美味大餐。据《消费者报告》(Consumer Reports)的一项调查，去年有超过三百万部智能手机被盗。2011年至今，洛杉矶的手机窃案增加了26%以上；旧金山涉及手机的抢劫案仅去年就增加了23%。在纽约市，去年超过18%的盗窃案涉及苹果(Apple)产品。
Victims are often desperate to recover their stolen phones, which, as home to their texts, photos and friends’ phone numbers, can feel less like devices than like extensions of their hands. While iPhones may be the most popular with thieves, apps that can track stolen phones using GPS are now available for most smartphones.
受害人往往会迫切想要追回失窃手机，那里面保存着他们的短信、照片和朋友的电话号码，它感觉更像是他们的手的延伸，而不是一个设备。iPhone可能是最受窃贼青睐的手机，不过绝大多数智能手机都可以通过GPS追踪失窃设备。
And although pursuing a thief can occasionally end in triumph, it can also lead to violence, particularly because some people arm themselves — hammers are popular — while hunting for their stolen phones.
追踪窃贼的行动偶尔能获得成功，但同样也会引致暴力，尤其是一些人在追缴自己的失窃手机时会携带武器——锤子是一个热门选择。
In San Diego, a construction worker who said his iPhone had been stolen at a reggae concert chased the pilferer and wound up in a fistfight on the beach that a police officer had to break up. A New Jersey man ended up in custody himself after he used GPS technology to track his lost iPhone and attacked the wrong man, mistaking him for the thief.
在圣地亚哥，一个建筑工人说他在一场雷鬼音乐会上被人偷了iPhone，而后他追赶小偷，两人在海滩上打作一团，最后一名警官不得不将他们拉开。新泽西一名男子用GPS技术追踪丢失的iPhone，并袭击了一名被他错当成窃贼的男子，结果自己被拘留。
Even an off-duty Los Angeles police detective pursued his son’s phone, which had been stolen at a soccer game. The officer, who asked that his name not be used for fear that civilians would follow his example, and his son used GPS to track the phone leaving the field.
连洛杉矶的一名未当值警探也选择自己去追缴儿子的手机，东西是在一场足球比赛上被盗的。由于担心平民会效仿，这位警官要求在本文中匿名，他和儿子用GPS追踪到手机正离开球场。
They got in the car and followed it — first to a mall, then to a nearby home. The officer knocked on the door, and then his son called the phone, which went off inside the bag of the boy who had taken it from the field.
他们开车跟了上去——先是到了一个购物中心，然后是附近的一座民宅。警官敲了门，然后儿子拨打手机，那个从球场把手机偷走的男孩的包里响起铃声。
The officer urged anyone whose phone is stolen to call the police, noting that he had had three other off-duty officers with him.
这位警官呼吁大家在手机被盗时应该报警，并解释说当时还有另外三名未当值警官跟他在一起。
“What if these were gang members?” he said. “Somebody can get killed doing this.”
“如果是某些帮派成员呢？”他说，“可能会有人因此丧命的。”
Cmdr. Andrew Smith, a spokesman for the Los Angeles Police Department, called the trend “a big concern.”
洛杉矶警察局发言人、指挥官安德鲁·史密斯(Andrew Smith)表示，这个趋势让他“非常担心”。
“It’s just a phone — it’s not worth losing your life over,” he said. “Let police officers take care of it. We have backup, guns, radio, jackets — all that stuff civilians don’t have.”
“不过是个手机——不值得把命搭进去，”他说，“让警官去处理。我们有后援、枪支、电台、防弹衣——这些都是平民所没有的。”
Still, although police departments have devoted more resources to combating smartphone theft, most cannot chase every stolen device right away, especially if the phone was left idly on a bar rather than seized in an armed robbery.
然而，尽管警察部门已经投入更多的资源来打击智能手机盗窃，多数时候失窃设备仍然是无法立刻追回的，尤其是如果手机是落在吧台上，而不是在一场持械抢劫中被夺走。
And despite the obvious risks, the lost phone’s location — blinking on a GPS app — is a siren song many find too alluring to ignore.
风险显而易见，但丢失手机的位置——在GPS应用上闪烁的那个小点——对很多人来说是个很难无视的诱惑。
Police chiefs have advocated another solution that they say could end smartphone thefts altogether: a mandatory “kill switch” that would render stolen phones inoperable and therefore unattractive to thieves.
警察局长们曾倡导过另一种解决方案，他们认为可以借此一举终结智能手机盗窃：在手机上强制安装一个“急停按钮”(kill switch)，可以让失窃手机无法使用，窃贼因此也就对它们不再感兴趣。
“This would all be moot if we had an industrywide kill switch,” Mr. Gascón said.
“假如全行业都装了‘急停按钮’的话，这些就根本不必讨论了，”加斯孔说。
After years of pressure, phone makers, including Apple, have begun offering this feature. But a bill that would require a kill switch on all smartphones sold in California has stalled in the State Legislature amid opposition from the telecommunications industry.
经过多年的施压，包括苹果在内的一些手机生产商开始提供这一功能。不过，由于电信行业的反对，要求在加州销售的所有智能手机必须安装急停按钮的提案在州立法会卡了壳。
In the meantime, the thefts continue to outpace the ability of the police to handle them.
与此同时，窃贼总是比警方魔高一丈。
When Ms. Maguire and her roommate called the Los Angeles police, she said, they were told they could go to West Covina themselves and call 911 if they felt threatened. Commander Smith said West Covina had probably been too far afield for detectives to go that day.
玛古埃尔称，她和室友向洛杉矶警方报案的时候，被告知可自行前往西科维纳，如果觉得有危险再打911报警。史密斯称，这很可能是因为，对警方而言当天去趟西科维纳实在太远了。
Ms. Maguire debated for hours before deciding to go after her phone.
思想斗争了好几个小时后，玛古埃尔最后决定去追回手机。
“We looked at the area on Google Maps, and it wasn’t that sketchy,” she said. “It wasn’t Compton. It was West Covina.”
“我们在谷歌地图(Google Maps)上看了看那片地区，还不算糟糕，”她说，“又不是康普顿，是西科维纳呀。”
The house where her phone had been taken was on a quiet residential street, with a well-tended yard and palm trees out front. Inside, she could see children running through the hall — a sign, she hoped, that she was dealing with opportunists, not career criminals.
她的手机被带去的那栋房子在一条安静的居民区街道上，院子打理得不错，前面种着棕榈树。她能看到里面有小孩在门厅里跑来跑去——她希望，这一迹象表明，眼前要面对的人是顺手牵羊，而非惯犯。
She knocked on the door. It swung open, revealing a large man, about 30 years old. “I think you have my phone,” Ms. Maguire said haltingly, as she later recounted the conversation. The man denied this. But she pressed him, insisting that GPS had led her to that address.
玛古埃尔敲了敲门。门一下开了，出现一个30岁上下的大块头男人。“我想你拿了我的手机，”她后来回忆，自己当时结结巴巴地说。此人予以了否认。但她连番逼问，坚称GPS将她带到了这个地址。
The man ducked back inside. The blinds in the living room, which had been open when she arrived, slowly closed.
男人退回了门里。起居室的百叶窗此时慢慢合上了，而玛古埃尔刚到的时候，是开着的。
Finally, he returned with one phone, then — after more negotiation — with the second. Unsure if the danger was over, Ms. Maguire sprinted to her car.
最终，他拿了一部手机出来。经过一番交涉，他又交出了第二部。玛古埃尔不知道还有没有危险，赶紧冲回了自己车里。
Still, when she was asked by text message if she would pursue a future pickpocket, she typed an unequivocal reply on her recovered phone: “Yes, def.”
不过，当被短信问到以后还会不会去追扒手的时候，她从找回的手机上回了一个毫不含糊的答案：“会，绝对的。”