MUMBAI, INDIA — There is, we are told, a small island of plastic in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. There was, we are told, a fatberg plucked out of the sewers of London. But nowhere in the world is dirt as visible as in India. It is so visible that for many Indians who return from America, even from New York, it isn’t the Grand Canyon or the Met they remember. It’s how clean the streets were.
印度孟买——据说，在太平洋的深处有一个塑料小岛。据说，伦敦下水道里掏出了个巨大的油脂垃圾球。但要说肉眼可见的脏，印度是举世无双的。印度的脏实在太明显，脏到许多印度人在去了美国后——哪怕是纽约——印象最深刻的不是大峡谷或大都会博物馆，而是那里的街道多么干净。
That’s because you can’t get away from the dirt of India. My city, Mumbai, has an estimated 20 million people. According to one estimate, we produce 630 grams of garbage per person per day — that’s 12.6 million tons every day. Mumbai is also the richest city in the country, with one-third of the national income tax revenue coming from here. The richer you are, the more waste you produce.
这是因为印度的脏让你无处逃避。我生活的城市孟买有约2000万人。有一个统计数据是我们每人每天产生630克垃圾——那就是每天1260万吨垃圾。孟买同时也是印度最富有的城市，三分之一的国家所得税收入来自这里。越有钱，产生的垃圾越多。
And that’s only talking about the garbage we see. A doctor told me she can’t measure her patients’ Vitamin B levels accurately because fecal contamination through the tap water skews the numbers too much. The city’s 19th-century sewers often run right next to the water pipes and both are porous, and as you learned in Chemistry 101, if two liquids with different degrees of concentration are separated by something with teeny-tiny holes, osmosis will do the rest.
这还只是我们看到的垃圾。一位医生告诉我，她没办法准确测量病人的维生素B水平，因为自来水的粪便污染给数据的影响实在太大。这座城市的19世纪下水管道经常紧贴着水管，而且两条管道都千疮百孔，学过点化学的人都知道，用一个长满小孔的东西把两种不同浓度的液体分隔开，剩下的事交给渗透效应就行了。
India now has its own clean-up campaign, inaugurated by a new-broom prime minister. This is well and good. No one can deny that being clean is. “Cleanliness is next to godliness,” my grandmother would say to my mother. “Then let’s be godly instead,” my mother would answer, tapping some more ash from a bidi on the floor. No one agreed with her. We Indians are cleanly people, we like to think. Hindus and Muslims alike bathe every day because it’s in the scriptures. We wash our homes every day, and the urban middle class throws out yesterday’s drinking water because it is “stale.” But that’s the private sphere.
印度现在有了自己的清洁行动，由新上任的总理提出。这是件大好事。谁也无法否认清洁是好事。“干净仅次于虔诚，”我祖母这么跟我母亲说过。“那还是选虔诚吧，”我母亲会这样回答，手上的比迪烟继续往地上掉着烟灰。没人站在她那一边。我们会认为，我们印度人是爱干净的。印度教徒和穆斯林会每天洗澡，因为经文里是这样要求的。我们的家每天都要洒扫清洁，城里的中产阶级会把隔夜的饮用水倒掉，因为“不新鲜”。但那是在私人领域。
In the public sphere, we are consistently awful. Arthur Koestler once said that breathing the air in Mumbai felt like “a wet, smelly diaper was being wrapped around my head.” I returned from Delhi recently, and there I felt like my head had been stuck in the exhaust of a truck. Hundreds of ministers and bureaucrats and workers travel around the city in hundreds of cars, each one in a single car with his or her own driver, each one sighing at the density of the traffic, each one complaining about the quality of the air, not one admitting to being part of the problem.
在公共领域，我们一贯很差劲。阿瑟·库斯勒(Arthur Koestler)曾说，呼吸孟买的空气就像是“在我的头上裹了一块臭烘烘的湿尿布”。我最近刚去过德里，我觉得呼吸那里的空气像是脑袋卡在了卡车排气管里。成百上千的部长、官吏和员工坐着成百上千辆汽车在城市里穿行，每个人都单独坐一辆车，配一个司机，每个人都在哀叹堵车之严重，每个人都抱怨空气质量，却没人会承认自己也是问题的一部分。
In 1901, Mahatma Gandhi, the father of the nation, as we like to call him, was struck by how the delegates at a meeting of the Indian National Congress in Calcutta had made the toilets of the house they were living in too filthy to use. Then they turned a verandah into an open-air latrine. Young Gandhi chided them but was told that cleaning the toilets was the sweepers’ job.
1901年在加尔各答的一次印度国大党(Indian National Congress)会议上，被我们尊称为国父的圣雄甘地(Mahatma Gandhi)惊讶地看到，代表们的住宿地的厕所被他们弄得污秽不堪，以致无法使用。然后他们把一个凉台变成了露天厕所。年轻的甘地指责了他们，但他们说，清洁厕所是清洁工的事。
Sweepers in India aren’t people who choose to be sanitation engineers. They’re people who are born to be sanitation engineers, and they are not supposed to hope to be anything else. They’re the outcasts of Indian society; “untouchables,” they used to be called, unseeables. Then Gandhi started calling them Harijans, People of God. They have since renamed themselves Dalits, the Broken People or the Oppressed People. Reservations — the Indian word for the affirmative action measures prescribed by the Constitution — may have helped many of them become doctors and lawyers and engineers, but most of the people who clean latrines in India still come from the Dalits. (When you take a dump on an Indian train, it falls onto the tracks. After the train has passed a manual scavenger, usually a Dalit, comes by and cleans up.) It is always going to be someone else’s job to keep things clean.
印度的清洁工从事这份工作并非个人选择。他们生来就是清洁工，而且不应该有任何其他奢望。他们是印度社会的弃儿；过去被称作“贱民”；他们是隐形人。后来，甘地开始把他们叫做“神的子民”。此后，他们又称自己是达利特人、破碎的人，或被压迫的人。“保留政策”——印度宪法规定的平权措施——可能已经帮助许多达利特人成为了医生、律师或工程师，但在印度清理厕所的人主要还是达利特人。（当你在印度的火车上方便时，排泄物会落在铁轨上。火车经过后会有人清理，他们通常是达利特人。）打扫卫生永远是别人的工作。
Dirt, it is said, is matter in the wrong place. Then what is the right place for it? We have garbage policies to deal with this, but they are not implemented. Although in Mumbai the government asks residents to segregate rubbish into wet and dry waste, municipal workers often mix everything into the same dumpster.
有人说垃圾是放错了地方的物品。那应该把它们放在哪里呢？我们有处理垃圾的政策，但却没有得到实施。尽管孟买政府要求居民把垃圾分成干湿两类，市政工人通常会把所有垃圾混合在一起，装进一个大垃圾桶里。
There are still rag pickers and raddiwallas, the men who buy your old papers, bottles and whatever else you don’t want. Some of these things go back into the system. Old clothes are bought in the cities and sold in the villages. Used electronics get refurbished and returned into the market. CDs are painted over with religious symbols and hung in cars. We continue to recycle and upcycle.
印度现在还有捡破烂的和收废品的人。他们收购旧报纸、瓶子，以及一切你不想要的东西。有些东西会被回收利用。在城市收购的旧衣服会卖给农村人。旧电器被翻新，重新在市场上出售。光盘被画上了宗教符号，挂在汽车里。我们不断回收和升级再造。
But we can no longer keep up. There’s too much stuff being made now, thanks to the backwash of globalization. Plastic was once an exotic substance, and plastic bags were hoarded and exchanged with ritual solemnity. When I was in the third grade, in 1975, we used chalk on slate for rough calculations. We would write out our lessons in pencil, and every so often would be told to erase them and reuse the notebooks. At the end of every academic year, we would tear out all the unused pages and get them bound as a “rough note” book. No child would be caught dead with one of those now. We’re richer, we’re more style-conscious and we’re dirtier.
不过，我们已经跟不上趟了。由于全球化的恶果，有太多东西被制造出来。塑料曾经是舶来品，人们曾带着庄严的仪式感来收集和交换塑料袋。1975年，在我上小学三年级的时候，我们可以用粉笔在石板上简单地演算。我们会用铅笔写课堂笔记，而且时不时被要求把它们擦掉，重复利用这个本子。在每个学年结束的时候，我们把还没用过的页撕下来，装订起来当做“演草本”。现在，没有哪个孩子会使用这种本子了。我们变得更加富裕，更加注重时尚，也更脏了。