NEW YORK — They’re arriving along 57th Street like a clutch of preening runway models, super-tall and skinny, the expensive playthings of Russian oligarchs and Chinese tycoons. A coupling of technology and wealth has bred this new, local hothouse species: leggy, cloud-piercing, sliver-thin residential towers.
纽约——第57街像是来了一群精心装扮的T台模特，超级高挑而瘦削，是俄罗斯寡头和中国大款的昂贵玩物。技术与财富的结合孕育了这种本地温棚的新品种：直冲云霄的细长而单薄的公寓大楼。
They capitalize on views of Central Park — “the money shot,” in the indelicate phrase of Carol Willis, director of the Skyscraper Museum — over which these buildings will cast long, literal shadows. (She has organized a show about them, on view through April 19.)
它们都要利用中央公园的风景，实实在在地在那里投下长长的阴影。按照摩天大楼博物馆(Skyscraper Museum)馆长卡萝尔·威利斯(Carol Willis)直白的说法，这就是“卖点”。（她策划了一场关于这些大楼的展览，开放到4月19日。）
The buildings are stirring some populist fury and prompting an argument: Do we need more public oversight when it comes to the city’s stratospheric architecture? Are we selling off our skyline to the plutocrats? Or are those who occupy these spaces serving up much needed tax revenue to the city?
这些大楼激起了一些民粹主义者的愤怒情绪，并引发人们辩论：涉及到纽约高耸的建筑时，是否需要加强公众监督？我们是不是在将自己城市的天际线出卖给富豪？而且，占据了这些空间的人们是否提供了纽约亟需的税收？
There are no simple answers. But I believe there may be ways to thread the needle — to encourage ambitious buildings and also to curb bad design. First, however we must be clear-eyed about the options.
答案并不简单。但我认为，或许有办法能平衡二者，既鼓励有创意的建筑，又能抑制糟糕的设计。无论如何，我们首先要透彻地了解各种选择。
“If we can find a bunch of billionaires around the world to move here, that would be a godsend,” Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said somewhat peevishly when the buildings — none yet completed, some yet to break ground — had become a political football in the campaign for his successor. “Because that’s where the revenue comes to take care of everybody else.”
当这些大楼——均未完工，其中一部分尚未破土动工——成为下届纽约市长竞选中的政治皮球时，在任市长迈克尔·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)不无愤怒地回应，“如果说，我们能找来一批来自世界各地的亿万富翁移居到这里，那是我们的福气。因为他们会提供税收，用以帮助其他人。”
That is, unless those billionaires don’t actually live here: Buyers parking fortunes in places like One57, across from Carnegie Hall — where two penthouses reportedly sold for more than $90 million apiece — often keep their primary residences elsewhere, as James B. Stewart noted recently in The New York Times. So they pay no city income tax, and in these new luxury buildings, property taxes are comparatively low — “even,” the column pointed out “as the city’s services prop up the value of their trophy real estate.”
问题是，这些亿万富豪并不真的生活在这里：正如《纽约时报》的詹姆斯·B·斯图尔特(James B. Stewart)最近撰写的一篇文章指出的那样，往卡内基音乐厅对面的One57——据报道，其中两套顶层公寓的售价超过了每套9000万美元（约合5.5亿元人民币）——这种地方撒钱的买家，往往将别处当作主要居住地。因此，他们并不在纽约交所得税，而且对于这些新建的奢侈大楼，地产税相对不高，“虽然纽约的市政服务推高了他们的炫耀性地产的价值”，文中写道。
One57, is Exhibit A in what we should be able to prevent. Developed by Extell, this 90-story apartment tower made headlines last year when a crane nearly fell down as Hurricane Sandy approached. Its French architect, Christian de Portzamparc, won the Pritzker Prize 19 years ago and during the late 1990s designed the compact LVHM Tower up the street, a jewel-like building.
One57是我们应当避免的典型案例。这栋90层高的公寓楼由Extell开发。去年飓风“桑迪”(Sandy)迫近的时候，它的一座吊车差点垮塌，成为一大新闻。这栋楼由法国建筑师克里斯蒂安·德·波特赞姆巴克(Christian de Portzamparc)设计，此人19年前曾赢得过普利兹克建筑奖(Pritzker Prize)，上世纪末设计了同一条大街上的珠宝似的紧凑建筑物路威酩轩大厦(LVHM Tower)。
This one unravels as a cascade of clunky curves descending toward ribbons billowing into canopies. The conceit is falling water. The effect: a heap of volumes, not liquid but stolid, chintzily embellished, clad in acres of eye-shadow-blue glass offset by a pox of tinted panes, like age spots. It’s anybody’s guess how the building got past the drawing board. It is now enmeshed in an anticorruption investigation, centered around a tax abatement that Albany legislators tucked into a real estate bill in January.
在One57，其上部拙劣的曲线立面变为下部的波浪型丝带，最后与入口雨棚融为一体。艺术修辞叫做飞流直下。实际的效果呢？成了并不灵动且显刻板的成堆波浪，好像印花装饰；数英亩闪亮蓝玻璃的效果被黯淡的浅玻璃凸起抵消了，就跟老人斑似的。这栋楼目前还卷入了一桩反腐败调查，焦点是奥尔巴尼的州议员今年1月塞入地产议案中的一项税收减免政策。
Perhaps even worse is yet another Extell project just a block away from One57. The Nordstrom Tower, at 1,424 feet, will be higher than the top floor of 1 World Trade Center. Its architects, Adrian Smith & Gordon Gill, designed the aspirational Burj Khalifa tower in Dubai. So far, only incomplete renderings of the Nordstrom Tower have been made public, although its signal gesture has already caused a big fuss: a cantilever over the Art Students League, a landmark building from the 1890s, in French Renaissance style, by Henry J. Hardenbergh. Picture a giant with one foot raised, poised to squash a poodle.
距离One57一个街区的另一项目或许更加糟糕，它也是Extell开发的。这栋楼名为诺德斯特姆大厦(Nordstrom Tower)，高达1424英尺（约合434米），将超越世贸中心1号楼(1 World Trade Center)的顶楼。该楼的建筑师阿德里安·史密斯(Adrian Smith)与戈登·吉尔(Gordon Gill)设计了激动人心的迪拜哈利法塔(Burj Khalifa)。截至目前，诺德斯特姆大厦没有公布完整的效果图，不过其标志性部分已引发了巨大的争议：它要在艺术学生联盟(Art Students League)的上空建造挑空部分。艺术学生联盟的校舍是建于19世纪90年代的标志性建筑，法国文艺复兴风格，由亨利·J·哈登堡(Henry J. Hardenbergh)设计。想象一个巨人抬起一只脚，准备踩扁小狗。
Despite strong community opposition, the city’s Landmarks Preservation Commission approved the cantilever in October. A Landmarks spokeswoman told me the other day that the commission is confined to assessing a project’s impact at street level, and the cantilever, at 290 feet in the air, is high enough not to affect views of the Art Students League, as if nobody in New York ever looks up.
虽然遭到社区的强烈反对，但是纽约市古迹保护委员会(Landmarks Preservation Commission)还是于10月批准了这个挑空部分。委员会的一名女发言人告诉我，委员会只评估某项工程对街面的影响，而这个位于290英尺高空的挑空部分，应该不会影响到艺术学生联盟的视野。就好像纽约没人会抬头往上看一样。
That cantilever is necessary to provide a Nordstrom store with an unobstructed floor plan, Extell has explained. It also happens to ensure that apartments above the store will look onto Central Park by peeking around another luxe high-rise slated for a block north, to be designed by Robert A. M. Stern.
Extell解释道，为了让诺德斯特姆商场能拥有一览无余的视角，这个挑空部分必不可少。它刚好能保证商场上方的公寓可以鸟瞰中央公园，不会被另一栋将在朝北街区建起的豪华高层建筑挡住视线——这栋高楼将由罗伯特·A·M·斯特恩(Robert A. M. Stern)设计。
The Landmarks Commission’s review was, in effect, the public’s chance. Nordstrom Tower and One57 were developed “as-of-right,” meaning their designs required no special permits from the City Planning Commission. Behind these super-tall buildings are New York zoning codes that permit builders to accumulate adjacent parcels of land then stack their air rights into a single structure occupying a part of the site.
纽约市古迹保护委员会的审核其实是公众的唯一机会。诺德斯特姆大厦和One57都“完全符合适用的规划法规”，也就是说它们的设计不需要得到城市规划委员会(City Planning Commission)的特殊许可。这些奇高无比的建筑背后有纽约区域划分法规的支持，建筑商能够借此累积邻近的小块土地，然后把相关的空间权全部用在一栋占据地块部分区域的建筑物上。
So, soon the view south from the park will be as if from inside the world’s biggest chessboard, with the buildings on Central Park South mere pawns before the queens and bishops that blot the sky behind them.
所以，公园以南的景致很快将会像是身处世界最大的棋盘之中，后和象挡住了它们背后的天空，而中央公园南区的大楼就像是摆在后和象前面的兵。
What do these projects add at street level where the other 99 percent live? What’s their return for claiming the skyline that is our collective identity?
这些工程会对其他99%人口居住的街道造成何种影响？他们占据了代表我们共同身份的天际线，又将给我们何种回报？
We need to be careful. Almost everybody hated the Chrysler Building at first. The Empire State Building once stuck out like a sore thumb. Those buildings along Central Park South used to be among the city’s tallest, intruding into the park over the treetops. Taste is tricky to legislate.
我们需要小心。刚开始几乎每个人都讨厌克莱斯勒大厦(Chrysler Building)。帝国大厦(Empire State Building)曾经也很扎眼。中央公园南区的这些建筑曾是纽约市最高的建筑，它们高过树木，侵入了公园的空间。通过立法来管理人们的品味并非易事。
This doesn’t mean New York should consign its silhouette to private builders. The city should put a limit on air rights that can be merged without public review. Exceptional height should be earned, not just bought. Let community groups and city agencies weigh in. Developers will raise hell, but the move would not stop sky-high buildings from going up. Buildings striving for such height would just need to make a case for themselves aesthetically and otherwise. Developers might also give something back for the profits reaped as they leverage public assets like parks. They could pony up for affordable housing and improved transit.
这并不意味着纽约应该把自己轮廓的设计权交给私人建筑商。纽约应该对能在不受公众监督的情况下进行合并的空间权作出限制。超出寻常的高度应该通过争取而不是购买的方式来获得。让社区组织和城市机构发挥作用。开发商将激烈反对，但是这种举动将无法阻止继续建起高层建筑。追求这种高度的建筑将需要从美学和其他角度证明其设计的合理性。开发商对利用公园等公共资产而获得的利益，也应该做出回馈。他们可以为平价住房和改善交通提供资金。
The next mayor also should explore “view corridors,” vistas that, like landmarks, New Yorkers prize and want to protect. London regulates views. New York already limits signs facing into parks. Does the skyline merit similar protection? That sort of question certainly matters more than who bought what for how much. We fixate on real estate porn. We need a healthier conversation about urban priorities.
下一任市长还应该探索“街景长廊”，纽约市民都很珍视而且愿意保护这种地标式的狭长街景。伦敦就在实行街景管理。目前，纽约已经对面对公园的标识进行了限制。对空中轮廓线也应施予相似的保护吗？此类问题肯定比谁花多少钱买了什么东西重要得多。我们关注的只是房地产方面的色情新闻。我们需要对城市的重要事宜进行更健康的讨论。
A forthcoming report from the Municipal Art Society, called “The Accidental Skyline,” bemoans what’s happening on 57th Street, absent New Yorkers’ input. It suggests any new tower casting a shadow over Central Park should require the approval of the City Planning Commission. That’s a plausible trigger for public oversight, dependent on city commissioners with backbone who understand design.
纽约市艺术协会(Municipal Art Society)即将发表一份名为《意外的天际线》(The Accidental Skyline)的报告。这份报告对57街在纽约人没有参与的情况下所发生的事表示了不满。它表示，任何能在中央公园投下影子的新大楼都应该得到城市规划委员会的批准。这样做可能会引起公众监督，而且还要依靠懂设计、有勇气的市政官员。
Oh, and the mayor could lobby to raise taxes on those out-of-town plutocrats buying zillion-dollar aeries.
哦，而且市长可以进行游说，提高对那些买下天价高空寓所却常常不住的富豪的征税。
Members of the Art Students League haven’t yet voted whether to approve the sale of their air rights to Extell for the Nordstrom Tower. While the league stands to gain millions, cranky artists might still succeed where Landmarks failed, and shelve the cantilever.
艺术学生联盟成员尚未对是否要把他们的空间权卖给Extell用做修建诺德斯特姆大厦进行投票。虽然联盟将因此获得数百万美元，但是古怪的艺术家可能还是会在古迹保护委员会失败的地方取得胜利，搁置挑空设计计划。
Here’s hoping they do.
希望他们能做到这一点。