Christian Bale more or less looks like himself in “Out of the Furnace,” which is something of a feat. As an ex-con mill worker in Scott Cooper’s working-class drama, Mr. Bale, a performer capable of extreme physical transformation, sports longish hair and a goatee, as he often does off screen. And, on his neck, a tattoo of the ZIP code of Braddock, Pa., where the movie is set.
在《逃出熔炉》(Out of the Furnace)中，克里斯蒂安·贝尔(Christian Bale)扮演的角色多少还是有些像他本人的，这算个不小的成就。在这部由斯科特·库珀(Scott Cooper)执导的关于工人阶级的影片里，贝尔这位擅长在身形上做出极端变化的演员扮演了一名有犯罪前科的钢铁厂工人，留着稍长的头发和山羊胡，他在现实生活中也经常这样。此外，脖子上还纹有片中故事的发生地——宾夕法尼亚州布拉多克的邮政编码。
“He’s somebody who, in a different time, would have been absolutely considered to be the backbone of America,” Mr. Bale said of his quiet, loyal character.
贝尔在提到他所扮演的沉默寡言、忠心耿耿的角色时说，“放在别的什么年代，他绝对可以被认为是美国的脊梁。”
Then there’s “American Hustle.” To play Irving Rosenfeld, a con man turned F.B.I. informant, in David O. Russell’s caper, loosely based on the 1970s Abscam scandal, Mr. Bale gained some 50 pounds and sports a comb-over that’s a plot point and a punch line. The look was inspired by the real-life swindler Mel Weinberg, on whom Irving is based.
还有《美国骗局》(American Hustle)。大卫·欧·拉塞尔(David O. Russell)执导的这部作品部分是根据上世纪70年代的阿伯骗局(Abscam)丑闻改编的。为了扮演欧文·罗森菲尔德(Irving Rosenfeld)，一位曾经当过骗子的美国联邦调查局线人，贝尔增加了50磅体重，留了个遮秃发，那是影片的一个情节，也是故事的精要所在。这个造型的灵感来自于欧文的原型、真实生活中的骗子梅尔·温伯格(Mel Weinberg)。
“He just is so unlike what I was thinking,” Mr. Bale said, “and seems to have this vulnerability and rawness to him that I didn’t see coming from a con artist. I just became obsessed with that look.”
贝尔说，“他和我想象的太不一样了。在我看来，他似乎有一种不属于骗子的脆弱和坦诚。我简直迷上了这个角色的造型。”
Both roles offer Mr. Bale a coveted shot at a best actor Oscar nomination, with “American Hustle” the showier, and more lauded, film. But the competition for the best actor prize is exceedingly tight this season, with a dozen leading men altering their bodies, enduring rigorous shoots and bringing harrowing and often true stories to the screen.
这两个角色都让贝尔有了令人艳羡的获得本届奥斯卡最佳男主角提名的机会，其中，《美国骗局》获得的关注和呼声更高。不过，今年奥斯卡最佳男主角奖的争夺尤其激烈，十几名男演员改变了他们的身材，忍受着艰苦的拍摄环境，为大屏幕献上了令人心痛、却常常取材于真实的故事。
After the Screen Actors Guild announced its nominations on Wednesday, the new conventional wisdom among Oscar watchers is that there are at least six shoo-ins for only five slots: Chiwetel Ejiofor, for his turn as a free man sold into bondage in “12 Years a Slave”; Matthew McConaughey, as an AIDS patient supplying H.I.V. drugs to fellow sufferers in “Dallas Buyers Club”; Tom Hanks, the skipper of a ship attacked by Somali pirates in “Captain Phillips”; Robert Redford, as a solo sailor in dire straits in “All Is Lost”; Bruce Dern, an elderly man on a quest in “Nebraska”; and Forest Whitaker, a witness to civil rights history in “Lee Daniels’ The Butler.” (Only Mr. Dern’s and Mr. Redford’s characters are entirely fictional.)
在美国演员工会(Screen Actors Guild)周三揭晓了提名名单之后，奥斯卡观察人士的最新普遍看法是，对于奥斯卡最佳男主角提名仅有的五个名额，有至少六个稳操胜券的候选人，他们是：切瓦特·埃加福(Chiwetel Ejiofor)，他在《为奴12年》(12 Years a Slave)中扮演了一个原本自由、后来被绑架并成为奴隶的人；马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)，他在《达拉斯买家俱乐部》(Matthew McConaughey)扮演了一个向其他患者销售抗艾药品的艾滋病患者；汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)，他在《怒海劫》(Captain Phillips)中扮演了一艘遭遇索马里海盗袭击的轮船的船长；罗伯特·雷德福(Robert Redford)，他在《一切尽失》(All Is Lost)中扮演了一名独自出海面对险境的水手；布鲁斯·邓恩(Bruce Dern)，在《内布拉斯加》(Nebraska)中扮演一名旅途中的老人；以及福里斯特·惠特克(Forest Whitaker)，在李·丹尼尔斯(Lee Daniels)导演的《白宫管家》(The Butler)中，他扮演了一位民权运动历史的见证者。（只有邓恩和雷德福的角色是完全虚构的。）
The guild, whose membership overlaps with the Academy’s actor branch, cemented those hopefuls, anointing Mr. Whitaker and leaving off Mr. Redford in its nominations. Voters for the Golden Globes, whose nominations are to be announced on Thursday, have more options, since their categories are split between drama and comedy/musical. But there are still plenty of comers for each. The race for what might be, at most, one or two spots on the Oscar list is now full of valiant dark horses.
美国演员工会的会员和美国电影艺术与科学学院的演员分支存在部分重叠，这让上述候选人增加了获得奥斯卡的希望。美国演员工会奖提名了惠特克，没有提名雷德福。金球奖(Golden Globes)的提名将于周四公布，其投票者有更多选择，因为金球奖分别设立了最佳喜剧类电影和最佳音乐及喜剧电影。但是每个奖项仍然有相当多的角逐者。他们要争夺的这份奥斯卡候选名单，最多会有一两个位置是被无畏的黑马占去的。
As the down-and-out titular folk singer in “Inside Llewyn Davis,” Oscar Isaac sometimes did 30 full-length takes of each of his songs, all recorded live. He roughed up his voice with cigarettes and beer, and tried to carefully steer the story in this Coen brothers movie, in which, by their own admission, nothing much happens.
为了扮演《醉乡民谣》(Inside Llewyn Davis)中穷困潦倒的民谣歌手，奥斯卡·伊萨克(Oscar Isaac)有时会把每首歌完完整整地录上30遍，而且全都是现场录制。他通过吸烟和喝啤酒把声音变得沙哑，并在这部科恩兄弟执导的电影中小心翼翼地控制着剧情的发展，不过，科恩兄弟自己也承认，这部电影里其实没发生什么故事。
“The big challenge, and, in retrospect, what I think I was able to do successfully, is to never be ahead of Llewyn,” said Mr. Isaac, a Juilliard-trained actor. “And Llewyn himself is never ahead, to the point where it’s almost a heightened situation how behind he is. All he’s doing is experiencing, and it’s very simple every single time — you know, ‘There’s one thing that I need, I need money, and nothing else matters.’ ”
“回想一下，我成功地完成了一大挑战，就是绝对不要超过勒维恩(Llewyn)”，出身茱莉亚音乐学院(Juilliard)的演员伊萨克说。“勒维恩本身绝不出众，影片甚至还突出了他有多么落魄。他所做的就是体验，每次都非常简单——你知道，‘我只需要一样东西，我需要钱，其他任何东西都不重要。’”
As soon as he was cast, Mr. Isaac saw other doors open for him in Hollywood — a sudden assurance, he said, that “you’re bona fide, kid.”
参演该片后，好莱坞为伊萨克敞开了其他大门——用他的话说，突然之间这成了“你有真本事”的保证。
Michael B. Jordan is experiencing similar leaps as he makes the rounds for “Fruitvale Station,” based on the life and death of the 22-year-old Oscar Grant III in Oakland, Calif. “Sundance is a blur,” Mr. Jordan said. “I remember the premiere, I remember talking to Oscar’s family, and that was about it.” More memorable, perhaps, are the many accolades the film and its young director, Ryan Coogler, have already earned, positioning Mr. Jordan as an underdog candidate for a best actor spot.
正在各地宣传《弗鲁特维尔车站》(Fruitvale Station)的迈克尔·B·乔丹(Michael B. Jordan)也有着类似的飞跃。这部影片是根据22岁的奥斯卡·格兰特三世(Oscar Grant III)死于加州奥克兰的真实事件改编的。“我对圣丹斯的印象很模糊，”乔丹说。“我记得首映式，记得和奥斯卡的家人谈话的情景，这才是重点。”更加令人印象深刻的恐怕是这部电影及其年轻导演瑞安·库格勒(Ryan Coogler)所获得的赞誉，这让乔丹以一个不起眼的身份挤进了最佳男演员的角逐。
Even established stars go places fans wouldn’t expect. As Jordan Belfort, the infamous financier who built an ill-gotten empire on penny stocks, Leonardo DiCaprio gives a no-holds-barred, drugs-hookers-and-dollars show in Martin Scorsese’s “Wolf of Wall Street.” Dialogue was improvised, and sex scenes were nearly pornographic, leaving Mr. Scorsese’s longtime editor, Thelma Schoonmaker, 73, mildly shocked (in a good way).
甚至连大牌明星也涉足了粉丝们意想不到的领域。莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)在马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)的《华尔街之狼》中饰演了臭名昭著的金融家约尔丹·贝尔福(Jordan Belfort)，此人依靠低价股建立起了一个非法帝国。迪卡普里奥的表演非常大胆，影片中充斥着与毒品、妓女和金钱相关的内容。里面的对白是临时发挥的，性爱场景堪比色情片，让和斯科塞斯合作多年的剪辑师、73岁特尔玛·休恩梅克(Thelma Schoonmaker)都有些受惊（好的那种）。
Mr. DiCaprio, a producer of the film, who championed Mr. Belfort’s story to Mr. Scorsese, can’t say he was surprised by the long shots of him twitching and stroking: He watched the edits as the film was shaved from its original running time of four hours to three. And this is a burnished partnership; Mr. Scorsese has directed him to nominations before, for “The Departed” (a Golden Globe nod) and “The Aviator” (a Golden Globe win and an Oscar nod), a film Mr. DiCaprio also produced.
迪卡普里奥也是这部影片的制片人之一，贝尔福的故事是他推荐给斯科塞斯的，他对自己床戏的长镜头已经见怪不怪：他看着影片从最初的四个小时被删减到了三个小时。这对合作关系正越来越出彩；斯科塞斯此前曾凭借《无间道风云》（The Departed，金球奖提名）和《飞行者》（The Aviator，金球奖最佳男主角，奥斯卡提名）让迪卡普里奥获得提名，迪卡普里奥也参与了《飞行者》的制作。
In the dark drama “Prisoners,” Hugh Jackman — the singing, dancing, Oscar-nominated superhero — is a father moved to violence by the abduction of his daughter. His research included reading police interrogations of parents in similar situations, and studying survivalism and the effects of sleep deprivation.
在惊悚悬疑片《囚徒》(Prisoners)中，休·杰克曼(Hugh Jackman)——能唱、能跳、曾获奥斯卡提名的超级英雄——因为女儿被绑架而开始变得暴力。他在调查中阅读了警方对有类似处境的家长的审讯，还研究了生存主义和睡眠匮乏的影响。
“The common thing in cases like these is the ticking clock,” he said. “Your hands start to shake, you forget things, you become unreasonable.” 
“这种案件的共同点就是时间紧迫，”他说。“你的双手会开始颤抖，你会忘事，失去理智。”
Though the awards race can be exhausting, even Hollywood eminences like Mr. Redford have taken part. His contemporary, Mr. Dern, as voluble in person as his “Nebraska” character, Woody, is taciturn, has been ever-present, charming potential Oscar voters with his firsthand recall of film history and praise for his latest director, Alexander Payne.
虽然竞逐奖项的过程可能会很累人，但像雷德福这样的好莱坞老牌明星还是参与了进来。与他同时代的邓恩非常健谈，与他在《内布拉斯加》中饰演的沉默寡言的伍迪(Woody)很不一样。邓恩总是保持着露面，用自己的亲身经历讲述电影史，并对他最新的导演亚历山大·佩恩(Alexander Payne)表示赞扬，这些都有可能吸引潜在的奥斯卡投票者。
“He leaves the camera on you and lets the behavior develop,” Mr. Dern said at a recent lunch. “Mr. Hitchcock would occasionally do stuff like that, but you weren’t as aware of it.”
“他把镜头对着你，然后让你自由发挥，”邓恩在最近的一次午餐中说。“希区柯克偶尔也会那样做，但是你不会那么明确感觉到。”
At 77, Mr. Dern has refused suggestions to run in the less-crowded best supporting actor title, saying he wanted to be known, at last, as a leading man.
有人建议邓恩参与竞争人数较少的最佳男配角的角逐，但77岁的他拒绝了这个提议，他说他希望自己最后能作为主角被人记住。
“I’ve made a lot of movies,” he said in an interview. “This is a film.”
“我拍过很多片子，”他在采访中说。“但这个才是电影。”