It would be criminal to tarnish an elegant 87-year-old New York City penthouse with guilt by association, unfair to imply that it is haunted by the ghosts of white-collar crooks or burdened by bad karma and negative vibes. But the classically proportioned seven-room duplex at 133 East 64th Street where the serial swindler Bernard L. Madoff once lived is poised to enter the marketplace yet again. He bought it for a song in 1984 compared with what his fellow financiers were spending on tonier Park and Fifth Avenues, and had lived there until 2009, when he traded his final weeks of high-end house arrest for a 150-year prison term in bucolic North Carolina.
如果让纽约市一栋房龄87年的优雅顶层公寓因涉及罪责而黯然失色，简直是在犯罪；即便暗示这套公寓里面还有“白领骗子”阴魂不散，或说它还背负着什么因果报应和怨念，也不太公平。但连环诈骗犯伯纳德·L·麦道夫(Bernard L. Madoff)曾经住过的那套位于东64街133号、布局经典的七房间复式公寓，已经蓄势待发，即将再次进入地产市场了。1984年，麦道夫为了一首歌买下这套公寓，与他的同行金融家们在较为奢华的公园与第五大道(Park and Fifth Avenues)购置的房产不相上下。他在这套公寓里一直住到2009年，当年，他以最后几周软禁在高档住宅中的日子，换得了在尽是田园风光的北卡罗莱纳州(North Carolina)囚禁150年的刑期。
This time the seller of the inviting aerie, PHA, is not the federal Justice Department seeking restitution funds for victims of Mr. Madoff’s $65 billion Ponzi scheme, and the asking price is not $9.9 million (later trimmed to $8.9 million, a reduction that prompted a spate of offers despite the building’s ho-hum location on a busy corner at Lexington Avenue). The current seller is the post-Madoff owner, and the asking price is $17.25 million, but as before, the circumstances are tinged with bitterness.
此次，这套诱人巢穴的卖方是公共住屋管理局（Public Housing Administration，简称PHA），而非麦道夫那650亿美元（约合人民币3963.4亿元）庞氏骗局的受害者们委托代其寻求赔偿金的联邦司法部(Justice Department)；而且，房产的要价也不是当年的990万美元了（约合人民币6036.6万元，后来砍到了890万美元[约合人民币5426.8万元]，这一降价举措促使许多买家趋之若鹜，尽管这栋大楼位于莱辛顿大道[Lexington Avenue]一个繁忙街角、毫无吸引力的位置上）。目前的这位卖家，是继麦道夫之后的房东，要价1725万美元（约合人民币1.05亿元），但和上次一样，情况混杂着一点苦涩。
After a brief and apparently unhappy acquisition by the Cabbage Patch/Pokemon toy impresario Al Kahn and his wife, Patsy, who paid $8 million in cash in 2010 and embarked on a tastefully whimsical redecoration of the somewhat musty and fussy Madoff premises, the three-bedroom four-and-a-half-bath duplex is being sold by Patsy Kahn, solo. She and her two black cats are moving on and out. Mr. Kahn already has.
这套公寓之前有过一次简短而显然不太愉快的收购，买方是“菜园和口袋妖怪”(Cabbage Patch/Pokemon)玩具公司的主管艾尔·卡恩(Al Kahn)和他的妻子帕齐(Patsy)。他们于2010年支付了800万美元（约合人民币4875.08万元）的现金，然后对麦道夫这套过时而浮华的房产进行了一次品味怪异的重新装修。这套带有三间卧室和四间半浴室的复式公寓，正由帕齐·卡恩(Patsy Kahn)单方面出售。她和自己的两只黑猫正在准备搬出去，开展新生活。而艾尔·卡恩已经这么做了。
The apartment’s bones — as envisioned by the building’s architect Kenneth Murchison, who also designed Emily Post’s Beaux-Arts co-op at Madison and East 79th Street — are impressive. There are 11-foot ceilings, hand-carved dentil moldings, a medley of herringbone hardwood floors, and Palladian windows throughout its principal rooms on the 12th floor, which are surrounded by a spectacular wraparound terrace with views of Central Park to the west, the Chrysler Building to the south, and the eastern cityscape.
这套公寓的骨架结构令人印象深刻——正如这栋大楼的建筑师、同时设计了位于麦迪逊和东79街间的艾米丽·波斯特学院布杂艺术合作公寓(Emily Post's Beaux-Arts co-op)的肯尼斯·默奇森(Kenneth Murchison)所预想的一样。11英尺（约3.35米）高的天花板、手工雕刻的齿状吊顶线、混合式样的鱼骨花纹地板，以及第12层上贯穿几个主房间的帕拉第奥式(Palladian)窗，窗户周围是一圈露台，从那里可以看见西边的中央公园(Central Park)、南边的克莱斯勒大厦(Chrysler Building)和东边的城市天际线。
The penthouse has four elaborately carved marble fireplaces, each of a different hue, and a greenhouse extension — a comfort-zone addition commissioned by Ruth and Bernie Madoff — off the chef’s kitchen creates a breakfast room that seats six and faces the east terrace. The kitchen has terra-cotta tile floors, white cabinetry, an array of top-tier stainless appliances, stainless counters and a walk-in pantry. The hallway leading to the kitchen has a formal bar with glass cabinets and a marble countertop that echoes the kitchen’s center island. The staff suite off the kitchen is being used as a den; there is a separate laundry room.
这套顶层公寓中，有四座精雕细琢的大理石壁炉，每一座的色调都不同，还有一处扩建的温室，那是由露丝(Ruth)和伯纳德·麦道夫授意增加的一处舒适区。在厨师级配置的厨房外面，辟有一间早餐室，面朝露台的东边，可以坐六个人。这间厨房铺着赤陶瓷砖地面，有白色橱柜、一系列顶级的不锈钢厨房设备、不锈钢的台面，以及一间步入式储藏室。在厨房外的走廊里有一个标准吧台，配有玻璃橱柜，其大理石台面与厨房中央岛台相配套。厨房旁边的佣人房被当做一间小杂物室；还有一间独立的洗衣房。
An elevator opens directly into the 12-by-14-foot foyer, where a windowed red granite powder room and a large closet are tucked behind a separate door. Archways to the left and right lead, respectively, east to the formal dining room, which has two pairs of French doors to the landscaped terrace, and west to the 27-by-16-foot living room, where French doors open to the deeper 15-by-36-foot section of the terrace and offer glimpses of Central Park’s greenery. The south-facing section, stretching the full length of the apartment, clocks in at 70-by-9.
一座电梯能直达那间12x14英尺（约3.66x4.27米）的门厅。另一扇大门后面，有一间带窗户的红色花岗岩化妆室和一间大更衣室。拱廊分别通往左右两边，往东是主餐厅，有一对法式双开门通往风景如画的露台；往西是一间27x16英尺（约8.23x4.88米）的起居室，那里的法式双开门通往露台更往里的一片15x36英尺（约4.57x10.97米）的区域，从那里可以看见中央公园(Central Park)的绿化带。房产朝南的部分与这套公寓等长，大小为70x9英尺（约21.33x2.74米）。
Opposite the elevator, an elliptical staircase with an undulating matchstick railing descends to the private living quarters on the 11th floor. The master suite has a fireplace, southern and eastern exposures, and decorative silver-leaf ceilings added by Ms. Kahn. Two his-and-hers walk-in closets and bathrooms are configured much the same as when the Madoffs lived here: hers is clad in white marble and has a Jacuzzi bath and a glass corner shower; his is a gloomy man-cave with Absolute Black granite throughout. The guest bedroom has an en-suite tile bath and two closets. A third bedroom, with a fireplace carved with marble cherubs, has paneled walls with built-in bookcases and is — as in the Madoff era — designated as a library.
在电梯对面，一段带曲形细扶手栏杆的旋转楼梯向下通往位于11层的私人生活区。东南向的主卧套间有一座的壁炉，天花板上装饰着由卡恩夫人添加的银箔。两间男女分开的走入式衣橱及浴室，布置得与麦道夫在此居住时大致相同：女士的浴室里贴着白色大理石，装有一个极可意(Jacuzzi)水流按摩浴缸，角落里还隔了一间淋浴房；而男士的地方是颜色深沉的男性空间，整个房间完全以纯黑色花岗岩装饰。客用卧室内有一间贴有瓷砖的配套浴室及两组壁橱。第三间卧室里有一座雕刻着大理石小天使的壁炉，镶板墙面上有嵌壁式书柜，设计得像一间图书馆，就与麦道夫居住的时期一样。
Mr. Madoff was, predictably, the president of the building’s notoriously circumspect co-op board, which is supposedly pickier since his forced resignation. The most famous resident remains the television personality Matt Lauer, who lives on the ninth floor.
不出所料，麦道夫正是这栋大楼的合作公寓委员会主席，谨慎得简直声名狼藉。自从他被迫辞职后，该委员会很可能还会更加苛刻。这栋楼里最出名的住户还有住在第九层的电视名人马特·劳尔(Matter Lauer)。
The listing broker is Dolly Lenz, the former Douglas Elliman dynamo who decamped earlier this summer with a handful of colleagues to headline her own brokerage, I. Dolly Lenz Real Estate.
该房源的经纪人是多莉·楞次(Dolly Lenz)，地产公司Douglas Elliman的前任业务能手。今年夏初，她携十多位同事一起离职，创立了自己的地产公司，“我.多莉·楞次地产公司”(I. Dolly Lenz Real Estate.)。