I attended the prestigious festival premier of my first documentary film in a fog. Zombielike, I answered audience questions, attended mixers, absorbed nothing. Then I returned to my hotel room and wept. As independent filmmakers, we (my husband and I) had worked hard to get to this point. And I was a mess. Frozen with worry, I watched myself squandering this great career opportunity and felt helpless to do anything about it. I was six months postpartum and felt like I was lying beneath a thick pile of sodden blankets and, in spite of my great drive to fight my way out, I remained pinned to the ground, gasping for air.
我有如腾云驾雾一般，参加了自己首个纪录片的盛大首映仪式。整个人就像僵尸似的，我回答观众提问，参加宴会，可是凡事都没往大脑里过。等到回到酒店房间时，我会痛哭失声。作为独立电影人，我们（我和丈夫）是靠着辛勤工作才取得了今日之成就，可我却一团糟。我简直被忧虑给吓傻了，眼睁睁地看着自己浪费这大好的事业良机，对此却束手无策。此时距离我生完宝宝刚刚过了六个月，我觉得自己像是躺在一层厚厚的湿毛毯下面，虽然想要奋力逃脱，却始终纹丝不动地被钉牢在地上，拼命想要呼吸。
While I would only fully grasp the impact of my postpartum depression on my family and career in retrospect, I was nevertheless aware at the time that something was wrong. I asked my obstetrician for help. “You don’t need antidepressants,” she said cheerfully. “Just buy a nice book and read it in a coffee shop. Take more ‘me’ time.”
回头来看，我才全然了解产后抑郁对我的家庭与事业的打击，不过在当时我已经知道，有什么东西不太对劲。我向产科大夫寻求帮助。她欢快地说：“你才不需要抗抑郁药呢。买本好书，去咖啡馆里读读。你得争取点‘个人’时间。”
And just like that, in spite of how much we now know about postpartum depression, I slipped through the cracks.
就这样，尽管现在我们对于产后抑郁已经有了丰富的认识，我其实没有完全理会关于产后抑郁的那些知识。
“No one wants to take ownership of postpartum depression screening,” Olivia Bergeron, a licensed clinical social worker who does in-home therapy visits for Brooklyn mothers with postpartum depression, told me. “There’s still so much misinformation out there. Obstetricians and pediatricians won’t touch it with a 10-foot pole.” Most of her clients, Ms. Bergeron added, are referrals from home-birth midwives and doulas.
“没人愿意取得产后抑郁筛查的主导权，”奥莉维亚·贝杰隆(Olivia Bergeron)告诉我。她是一位认证临床社工，对布鲁克林地区患产后抑郁的妈妈们进行家居治疗探访。“这里仍然充斥着种种错误的讯息。产科医生和儿科医生都避之不及。”贝杰隆进一步说，她的大部分客户都是通过居家生产助产士和导乐助产人员介绍而来。
Postpartum depression affects 1 in 7 women and, in spite of generally heightened awareness, many of these cases aren’t identified or treated. Left untreated, depression may become severe, affect the entire family and deal a severe blow to infant growth, development and health.
每7个女性中就有1个会遭遇产后抑郁，而且尽管人们对这种疾病的了解程度已经普遍有所提高，但很多病人并没有得以发现和治疗。而如果听任不管，抑郁症有可能恶化，这会影响全家人的关系，也会对婴儿的生长、发育与健康带来严峻的打击。
There is urgent need to “develop a sustainable public health approach in primary care to prevent or intervene early in developing PPD to improve the health and well-being of mothers and children,” concluded a study published in the March issue of the Annual Review of Clinical Psychiatry.
《临床精神病学年度综论》(Annual Review of Clinical Psychiatry)3月刊的一篇论文提出结论称，现在亟需“在基层医疗层面建立可持续的公共卫生途径，以对产后抑郁症进行预防或早期干预，从而改善母婴双方的健康与福祉。”
The big question is: who will screen and how? Not our obstetricians, according to a committee opinion by the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists:Depression is very common during pregnancy and the postpartum period. At this time there is insufficient evidence to support a firm recommendation for universal antepartum or postpartum screening.Turns out my obstetrician was simply following protocol.
一个大大的问号摆在面前：由谁来筛查，怎么筛查？不应由产科医生来做，至少美国妇产科医师学会(American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists)的委员会意见是这么说的：抑郁在妊娠和产后非常普遍。目前尚无充足证据支持我们对进行产前和产后普查做出确切的推荐。看来，我的产科大夫无非是按章办事罢了。
While obstetricians should still be encouraged to screen for postpartum depression (and individual practitioners can and should ask questions), pediatricians—or at least, the American Academy of Pediatrics—have stepped up. Encouragingly, the A.A.P. now recommends that pediatricians screen mothers for postpartum depression at a baby’s one-, two-, and four-month visits.
我们仍应鼓励产科大夫进行产后抑郁筛查（而个人执业的大夫同样可以并且应当主动向产妇了解相关问题），而儿科大夫——或者至少是美国儿科学会(American Academy of Pediatrics)——已经加快了步伐。令人振奋的是，美国儿科学会现在推荐儿科医生在对婴儿进行出生后一月、两月和四月的探视时，对母亲是否出现产后抑郁进行筛查。
But in my own (admittedly informal and limited) survey of several women who recently gave birth, I asked if their pediatricians inquired about their mood and general well-being. They all said no. Neither did my son’s pediatrician.
不过，我本人对几位最近刚刚分娩的女士进行了调查（调查是非正式而且有局限的），想了解她们的儿科大夫是否询问了她们的情绪和整体状况。她们的回答全部是否定的。而我儿子的儿科大夫同样没有这样去做。
“In my pediatric residency, which really wasn’t that long ago, there was zero training about how to deal with postpartum depression,” said the San Francisco pediatrician Sheva Tessler, who herself suffered debilitating postpartum anxiety and, as a result, always asks new mothers about their well-being. “It should be part of all general pediatric residency programs; a mandated educational component. Pediatricians should be the first line for catching this. We’re the ones seeing the moms.”
“在我做小儿科住院医生期间——那是不久以前的事情，在有关如何应对产后抑郁方面我没有受到任何训练，”在旧金山做儿科医生的希瓦·苔斯勒(Sheva Tessler)说。她本人曾经历过令人精疲力竭的产后焦虑，因此每次遇到新妈妈时总会主动了解对方的整体健康状况。“在任何儿科住院医生的培训中，都应涵盖产后抑郁的训练，这应该是一项必修课程。儿科医生站在甄别产后抑郁症的第一条防线上。我们可以与妈妈们面对面交流。”
This paradigmatic shift may not be easy. “In general, pediatricians are uncomfortable taking on adult patients, and they are particularly uncomfortable being put in a situation where they’re supposed to know the formal symptoms of depression and be able to provide advice about treatment,” Dr. James C. Coyne, professor of psychology at University of Pennsylvania’s School of Medicine, wrote to me via e-mail.
治疗范式的转变或许并非易事。“总的来说，儿科医生处理成人患者时会有点不安，同时，他们要面对这样一个处境，需要了解抑郁症的确切症状，同时有能力为治疗提供建议，这令他们尤其不安，”宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)医学院心理学教授詹姆斯·C·科因(James C. Coyne)在电子邮件中这样对我说。
Universal screening, he added, would require a radical redesign of the system: staffing pediatric practices with psychologists and social workers, improving communication between primary care and mental health units and, of course, ponying up money to pay for all this. “Specialized ‘depression-care managers,’ nurses or social workers who would be familiar with the issues in detecting and treating depression, and ensuring follow-up after antidepressants are given out, would be a great innovation. But it’s tough to introduce [these changes] into primary care on a sustained basis when there are so many other pressing inadequacies of routine care,” wrote Dr. Coyne.
他进一步说，只有在对现行体系进行彻底的重新设计后，才能推行抑郁症普查。要为儿科诊所配备心理医生和社工，改进基层医疗与心理健康部门之间的沟通，同时当然还需要有充足的费用来支持上述改变。“令‘抑郁症护理管理人员’专门化，确保护士和社工对甄别和治疗抑郁症的问题了如指掌，而且要保证在发放了抗抑郁症药物后进行随访，这将会成为非常伟大的创举。但现在在常规治疗领域还有众多问题亟待解决，确实很难将（上述改变）引入基层医疗并保证持久发展，”科因在信中写道。
Yet early adopters of universal screening exist; they are firm believers that universal screening can, and does, work. “The infant is the patient. The pediatrician is not expected to treat the mother but only facilitate a referral for her if needed,” Dr. Marian Earls, lead pediatric consultant for North Carolina’s Community Care program, wrote to me in an e-mail. “When screening, the pediatrician (and other primary care clinicians who provide care to infants) is screening the infant’s environment for risk to early brain development.”
不过，抑郁症普查的早期实践者也仍然存在，他们坚信普查可以而且确实行之有效。北卡罗来纳社区医疗计划首席儿科顾问玛丽安·埃尔斯(Marian Earls)在电子邮件中写道：“婴儿就是病患。儿科医生并非治疗母亲，而是在需要时为其转诊。筛查时，儿科医生（和其他为婴儿提供医护服务的基础医疗人员）是在筛查婴儿早期大脑发育的环境是否存在危险。”
Dr. Earls said that as a result of a concerted focus on training and coaching, many North Carolina pediatricians are now screening mothers for depression; Illinois and Minnesota are promoting training in primary care as well. “Yes, I am certain that it is possible that pediatricians will universally screen postpartum women for depression,” she said.
埃尔斯医生说，由于在将重点放在培训与辅导上已取得共识，现在很多北卡罗来纳的儿科医生已经开始筛查母亲是否患抑郁症，伊利诺伊和明尼苏达州也在提倡将培训引入基础医疗体系中。“是的，我相信儿科医生将有可能对女性是否患产后抑郁进行普查，”她说。
As for me, once the fog of depression lifted, it left in its place a hot heap of guilt for not having fought harder for treatment. Raising awareness about postpartum depression is fantastic. Now let’s figure out how to act on that knowledge. Universal screening might not catch everyone, but each referral is a big step in the right direction.
对于我来说，一旦抑郁的迷雾烟消云散，我的心中顿时涌起深深的自责，我责怪自己当初没有更努力地争取治疗，提倡更多地关注产后抑郁固然很棒，现在，让我们想想如何能利用好这些认识。抑郁症普查也许不会发现每一例症人，但每一次将病人转诊，都是向正确的方向迈进了一大步。