What business makes no money, has yet to pass its third anniversary and just turned down an offer worth billions of dollars? Snapchat, a social media platform run by a pair of 20-somethings who until last month worked out of a beachfront bungalow in Venice, Calif.
没有实现盈利，创立还不到三年，还刚刚拒绝了一个数十亿美元收购要约的公司是哪家？它就是社交媒体平台Snapchat，经营它的是两个20多岁的年轻人，直到上个月，他们还在加州威尼斯的一栋海滨平房里工作。
Thanks to today’s rabid rat race for the hottest social media start-ups, Snapchat has joined the list of tech companies — like Tumblr and Instagram — with no money coming in but multiple sky-high takeover offers. So far, Snapchat’s leaders have balked at the offers, according to three people with knowledge of the overtures, including a recent multibillion-dollar proposal from Facebook, the biggest social network of them all.
最热门的社交媒体初创公司如今都极为抢手，因此Snapchat也像Tumblr和Instagram等公司一样，跻身于虽未盈利但却获得了多个天价收购要约的高科技公司之列。三名了解收购方案的人表示，到目前为止，Snapchat的管理者已经拒绝了一些收购要约，其中包括全球最大的社交网络Facebook近期开出的数十亿美元报价。
It’s not that they don’t want billions of dollars. In part, it’s because they think making a deal now would leave many billions more on the table.
这并不是说他们不想获得数十亿美元。从某种程度上说，这是因为他们认为现在出售公司会少入账数十亿美元。
The service, started in 2011 by Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy, two former Stanford fraternity brothers, lets users send photo and video messages that disappear after they are viewed. Snapchat quickly gained a reputation as an easy way to send sexually suggestive photos, but it also picked up steam among young users as a fun and easy way to trade photo messages.
埃文·斯皮格(Evan Spiegel)和博比·墨菲(Bobby Murphy)在2011年创办了Snapchat，两人曾是斯坦福大学(Stanford)的兄弟会成员。使用Snapchat，用户可以发送“阅后即焚”的照片和视频，内容在查看之后就会消失。Snapchat很快就获得了方便发送暧昧照片的名声，但它也作为一种有趣而简单的照片交换方式，在年轻用户中风靡起来。
The company has in recent months become one of the most sought-after businesses in the tech industry, getting attention from top Silicon Valley companies and venture capital firms, as well as international technology companies.
最近几个月来，Snapchat已经成为高科技行业中最抢手的公司之一，它不仅吸引了大牌硅谷公司和风险投资公司的目光，也引起了国际科技公司的注意。
In the past, several start-ups found even greater success by passing up a billion dollars or more, including Facebook and Twitter. Even Twitter, with its red-hot debut on the public market, still has skeptics who question whether it can grow enough to justify its current market capitalization of more than $20 billion.
在过去，像Facebook和Twitter这样放弃10亿美元或更高额收购要约，从而获得更大成功的初创公司也有几家。即使是近期火爆上市的Twitter，也仍然遭到一些怀疑者的质疑：它能否成长到对得起如今逾200亿美元市值的程度。
But Silicon Valley is littered with many more entrepreneurs whose big dreams went unfulfilled, people who were at the helm of the next big thing and lost momentum before they could cash out.
但硅谷充斥着更多壮志未酬的创业者，这些曾掌控下一个大热门项目的人在可以从中获利之前就失去了动力。
“I think this is classic bird-in-hand versus bird-in-bush,” said Julie A. Ask, an analyst at Forrester Research. “Snapchat must believe the bird-in-bush is bigger.”
“我认为，这是典型的眼前价值还是长远价值的比较。”弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)分析师朱莉·A·阿斯克(Julie A. Ask)说。“Snapchat肯定觉得长远价值更可观。”
There are some suggestions about why Snapchat thinks it will be worth far more later than it is now. For one thing, Snapchat’s leaders think it might be one of the first social media companies to build its business around revenue beyond advertising.
Snapchat认为自己长远价值将远远大于眼前价值，原因可能有几点。首先，Snapchat的管理者认为它可能是首个主要围绕广告以外的营收来建立业务的社交媒体公司。
On stage at an industry event in September, Mr. Spiegel said that he wanted to duplicate the success of overseas chatting applications like WeChat.
在今年9月一个行业会议的讲台上，斯皮格说，他希望能够复制微信等海外聊天应用的成功。
Many such companies, particularly WeChat and Line, have found ways to make money from their applications through virtual goods and games. WeChat, which is based in China and operated by a company called Tencent, allows its users to subscribe to brands like Starbucks and Nike and receive messages from them. Line, a Japanese messaging app, has $10 million a month in revenue from selling stickers that users can send to each other while chatting with friends.
很多这样的公司，特别是微信和Line，找到了在应用中通过虚拟商品和游戏来赚钱的方法。在腾讯公司推出的微信上，用户可以订阅星巴克和耐克​​这样的品牌，并从它们那里接收信息。Line是一个日本的消息应用，用户可以在跟朋友聊天的时候互相发送“贴图”，该服务每月的“贴图”销售收入达1000万美元。
But the decision appears to have also been influenced by one of Snapchat’s big venture backers, Benchmark Capital, according to a person close to the talks. Before leading an investment in Snapchat, Benchmark led an early bet on Instagram, a photo service, and was disappointed when Instagram’s founders decided to sell to Facebook for $1 billion last year. Despite the high price tag, the firm thought Instagram could have succeeded as a stand-alone company, or at least could have brought a higher offer.
但是，据了解谈判情节的人士说，Snapchat之所以拒绝出售，也受到了其主要投资方基准资本(Benchmark Capital)的影响。在牵头对Snapchat进行投资之前，基准资本曾在照片服务Instagram的早期阶段给它下注，Instagram创始人去年决定以10亿美元的价格将公司出售给Facebook，这令基准资本感到失望。尽管作价很高，但基准资本认为，Instagram作为一家独立公司发展也可以取得成功，或者至少可以取得更高的收购报价。
Eight months after the Instagram sale, Benchmark switched tactics and placed an initial $13 million bet on Snapchat. Benchmark executive thought they might be able to profit from Facebook fatigue by investing in services like Snapchat that offered users — particularly teenagers — greater privacy.
Instagram出售8个月之后，基准资本改变战术，向Snapchat首期投入1300万美元资金。基准资本的高管认为，人们对Facebook的厌倦，对于投资给Snapchat这样的服务可能是个利好。后者给用户，尤其是青少年用户提供了更好的隐私保护。
It is those teenagers who most interest Facebook. In an earnings call this month, Facebook said that its youngest users were using its service less.
Facebook最感兴趣的就是这些青少年。在本月初披露财报的一次电话会议上，Facebook表示，年轻用户群使用其服务的时间在减少。
Still, the news about Snapchat rejecting Facebook’s offer, first reported by The Wall Street Journal on Wednesday, sent a small shock through the industry. Both Snapchat and Facebook declined to comment.
尽管如此，《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)周三率先报道的Snapchat拒绝Facebook收购要约的消息，也给该行业带来了一小波的冲击。Snapchat和Facebook都拒绝对此置评。
Snapchat and applications like it represent a coming sea change in social media, one not necessarily defined by shared or public interactions. These services present an antidote to mainstream services that are meant to capture life moments so they can be shared, liked and commented on. Snapchat’s appeal lies largely in the lack of permanence. It offers a reprieve from worrying about awkward or unflattering photos turning up unexpectedly.
Snapchat及类似的应用，代表了社交媒体领域即将到来的一个翻天覆地的变化，这个变化跟共享或公开互动未必有多大关系。主流社交媒体旨在捕捉生活中的瞬间，使用户便于分享、点赞、发表评论，而这些服务则反其道而行之。Snapchat的魅力主要在于发布的信息没有持久性。人们总会担心尴尬或者糟糕的照片会意外出现，而Snapchat可以缓和这种担忧。
Snapchat recently said that it now processed upward of 350 million messages a day. In February, the company was processing only 60 million a day.
Snapchat近期表示，它现在每天能处理超过3.5亿条消息，今年2月时，这个数字仅为6000万。
Other messaging services similar to Snapchat are also quickly gaining in popularity. WhatsApp, KakaoTalk, Kik, WeChat and Line, to name a few, have added hundreds of millions of users around the world in the last few years, and each continues to grow.
其他类似Snapchat的消息服务也在迅速普及，WhatsApp、KakaoTalk、Kik、微信和Line就是几个例子。在过去几年里这些服务已经在世界各地吸引了数亿用户，而且全部都在持续增长。
That rocketlike growth has emboldened Snapchat’s leaders to hold out for a better deal, and with a suitor of their choice, at least for now. One person with knowledge of the talks, who would speak only on the condition of anonymity, said one roadblock in the talks with Facebook was that Mr. Spiegel questioned whether he wanted to work for Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s young billionaire chief executive.
火箭式的增长让Snapchat的管理者有了底气，他们在等着以更好的条件，出售给自己中意的收购者，至少现在还能再等等。一位了解谈判情节但不愿意公开姓名的人士透露，跟Facebook商谈出售公司的一个障碍是，斯皮格怀疑自己是否愿意为年轻亿万富翁、Facebook首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)工作。
In addition, Snapchat relishes being a successful company outside Silicon Valley. In December, when the company was still getting its footing in the social media market, Mr. Zuckerberg requested a meeting. But he traveled to Los Angeles to meet with the company, according to Snapchat’s founders, instead of them visiting him at his headquarters in Northern California.
此外，Snapchat也为自己在硅谷之外取得成功而自豪。去年12月，Snapchat还努力在社交媒体市场站稳脚跟的时候，扎克伯格就表示想跟他们会面。Snapchat的两位创始人说，是扎克伯格来到了洛杉矶见他们，而不是让他们跑到加州北部的Facebook总部见扎克伯格。
Shortly after the meeting, Facebook started a similar product called Poke. But Poke never took off. Even Facebook’s own stand-alone messaging product, called Messenger, has struggled to attain the same kind of momentum that rival messaging upstarts have gained.
那次会面之后不久，Facebook就推出了一个类似Snapchat的产品，叫做Poke，但Poke并没有流行起来。即便是Facebook自身的独立消息服务Messenger，要想取得这个领域里竞争对手的增长势头也很困难。
And in Silicon Valley, where the next big thing could pop up at any time, tech companies and big tech investors are often compelled to act when they can — sometimes with fear and little regard for the number of zeros involved.
而且在硅谷，“下一个大热门”随时都有可能冒出来，科技公司和科技产业的大牌投资者往往要趁着还能采取行动时及早行动——有时是带着恐惧感出手，对价格里有多少个零不太介意。
Another potential suitor for Snapchat is Tencent, one of the three Internet giants in China. In September, Pony Ma, one of the founders of Tencent, spoke of that constant tension when discussing his interest in Snapchat.
Snapchat的另一个潜在收购者是腾讯公司，中国三大互联网巨头之一。今年9月，腾讯创始人之一马化腾在谈及他对Snapchat的兴趣时，就说到了这种持续的紧张心态。
“I’m facing a crisis in this industry, said Mr. Ma. “Young people, the things they like on the Internet, increasingly I don’t understand it. This is my biggest worry.”
“我在这个行业里面临一个危机，”马化腾说，“年轻人现在在互联网上喜欢的东西，我越来越看不懂了，这是我最大的担忧。”