Bill Gates, the chairman and former chief executive of Microsoft, is more involved with the company than he has been in years. But he does not — repeat, not — want to run it.
眼下，微软(Microsoft)董事长、前首席执行官比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)对公司事务的参与程度高于此前多年。但他不愿——重复一下，是不愿——领导公司。
Since Microsoft began a search for a new chief executive months ago, Mr. Gates and people close to him have said that he won’t return to lead the company. For good measure, Mr. Gates said it again on Tuesday, in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
自从微软数月前开始挑选新首席执行官以来，盖茨和与他关系密切的人均表示，他不会回去执掌公司。此外，盖茨周二在接受彭博电视台(Bloomberg Television)的采访时也再次重申了这一点。
Yet Mr. Gates, even as he hobnobs this week with the powerful and wealthy in Davos, Switzerland, is deeply engaged at Microsoft. He is regularly meeting with company executives, offering input on products and weighing in on the search for a chief executive, according to several people who have either spoken to Mr. Gates directly or are aware of his recent comings-and-goings at the company.
然而，即便是本周在瑞士达沃斯与权贵富豪们相谈甚欢时，盖茨也仍在深入参与微软的运作。据几位直接与盖茨有所交流或知晓他近来在公司活动的人称，盖茨频频与公司高管碰面，为产品提供建议，还对首席执行官的遴选提出自己的见解。
The precise nature of Mr. Gates’s involvement at Microsoft, now and in the future, has been a hot topic of speculation in the company’s search for a new chief. That interest has only intensified as the search has dragged on longer than many investors and people inside the company had hoped.
在微软寻找新首席执行官之际，盖茨现今和未来参与微软事务的这种方式引发了大量猜疑。随着遴选持续的时间超出了许多投资者以及公司内部人士的预期，人们对这一问题的兴趣进一步增强。
The nixed candidacy of Ford’s Alan Mulally, the presumed frontrunner for the job at one point, led many people watching the process from a distance to conclude that Mr. Gates’s presence at Microsoft was harming the process. What rational person would lead the company, this line of thinking goes, with Mr. Gates breathing down his neck — all the presumed candidates are men — and second-guessing his every move?
福特(Ford)的阿兰·穆拉利(Alan Mulally)一度被视为该职位的热门人选。他的淘汰出局使许多远远观望遴选过程的人认为，盖茨参与微软事务影响了这一过程。这些人认为，在盖茨密切关注着他的一举一动挑毛病的情况下，要多么理性的人才能领导这家公司。所有被视为候选人的都是男性。
The reality of Mr. Gates’s status at the company is a bit more nuanced. According to a person with knowledge of board discussions, who asked to remain anonymous because that dialog is private, Mr. Gates is willing to dial up or down his involvement with Microsoft based on the wishes of the new chief.
盖茨在公司的实际地位也更加微妙。据一名了解董事会讨论的人称，盖茨愿意根据新首席执行官的意愿增加或减少对微软事务的参与。这名人士要求匿名，因为讨论是私下里进行的。
If the new chief executive wants Mr. Gates, a co-founder of Microsoftand one of the founding fathers of the tech industry, to chime in moreoften on company matters, Mr. Gates will do it, this person said. Ifthe new chief executive wants Mr. Gates doing less around Microsoft,Mr. Gates will respect that, too.
此人称，如果新任首席执行官希望身为微软联合创始人、科技业奠基人之一的盖茨更多地参与公司事务，盖茨愿意这么做。如果新任首席执行官希望盖茨减少对微软的干预，盖茨也会尊重这样的意见。
Several people associated with Microsoft and Mr. Gates for yearsbelieve he doesn’t want to have to be called in to rescue the companyfrom a perilous situation, which would require day-to-day attention.The company is now still healthy, but it has lost its advantage inseveral areas. If a new chief executive bombs, the company could fallfurther behind still.
几名与微软和盖茨相交多年的人认为，盖茨不希望等到公司处于危险境地时，再被叫去拯救公司，因为那会需要他每天投入精力。微软现在的状态依然很健康，但已经在多个领域失去了优势。如果新任首席执行官彻底失败，微软还会进一步落后。
In interview after interview, including on Bloomberg Television Tuesday, Mr. Gates has shown little interest in ever leaving his full-time work as a globe-trotting philanthropist with the Gates Foundation. Pulling a Michael Dell or Howard Schultz, executives who came back to lead Dell and Starbucks after their companies went astray, does not seem to be his ambition.
在一次又一次采访中，其中包括周二彭博电视台的采访，盖茨没有对辞去自己的全职工作表现出什么兴趣。他的全职工作是作为慈善家奔走世界各地的盖茨基金会(Gates Foundation)。在戴尔(Dell)和星巴克(Starbucks)偏离了正确轨道之后，迈克尔·戴尔(Michael Dell)和霍华德·舒尔茨(Howard Schultz)分别回去领导各自的公司。但盖茨似乎意不在此。
Mr. Gates is spending more time on Microsoft now, in other words, to avoid spending more time on it later.
盖茨现在花在微软上的时间多了，换句话说，他这么做是为了避免以后在公司事务上花更多时间。
“I think it will be very important for Bill to assure for himself that he has put in place a good steward for the company who can provide the right technical direction for the future, and not someone who just reduces costs for a couple years and leaves the company without the problems having been fixed,” said Rick Sherlund, a veteran Microsoft analyst with Nomura Securities.
“我觉得对比尔来说，非常重要的一点是，他要亲自确认，他为公司找到了一个优秀的掌门人，这个人要能正确地指引未来的科技方向，而非只是一个在几年之内缩减成本，待到离任时相关问题依然没有解决的人，”野村证券(Nomura Securities)微软问题的资深分析师里克·谢伦德(Rick Sherlund)说。
A Microsoft spokesman declined to comment, as did a spokesman for Mr. Gates.
微软和盖茨的发言人均拒绝置评。
The future status of Microsoft’s current chief executive, Steven A. Ballmer, is also an intense topic of discussion. Mr. Ballmer does not have a large foundation waiting to occupy him once his replacement is found. He is a meaningful shareholder and board member of the company. And he is the architect of many major initiatives in motion at Microsoft, including its acquisition of Nokia’s handset business and a broad reorganization of the company.
微软现任首席执行官史蒂文·A·鲍尔默(Steven A. Ballmer)将来的地位也引发了热烈的讨论。一旦找到接班人，鲍尔默并没有一个规模庞大的基金会等着自己去经营。他是公司的重要股东和董事会成员，也是微软许多正在进行中的重大项目的设计者，其中包括收购诺基亚的手机业务，以及公司内部的大范围重组。
It’s those major initiatives that could complicate his dealings with his successor, should the new chief executive decide to change the playbook. For that reason, Matt McIlwain, a venture capitalist in Seattle with Madrona Venture Group, predicts that Mr. Ballmer will leave the company’s board of directors in the next six to 12 months, when the spotlight has shifted to Microsoft’s new leader.
如果新任首席执行官决定调整战略，那么这些重大项目就会让鲍尔默与他的关系愈加复杂。西雅图马德罗纳企业集团(Madrona Venture Group)的风险资本家马特·麦基尔韦恩(Matt McIlwain)因此预测，鲍尔默会在未来半年到一年之间离开公司董事会，那时，外界的焦点就已经转移到了微软的新掌门人身上。
Mr. McIlwain says he also believes that Mr. Gates will end up doing more at Microsoft than in past years. He sees fewer hazards associated with that than Mr. Ballmer staying involved.
麦基尔韦恩表示，同过去数年相比，自己也觉得盖茨将更多地参与微软的事务。他认为，盖茨这么做的危害要比鲍尔默继续介入公司事务可能带来的危害要少。
“Bill has a strong personality, but he has more distance and perspective,” Mr. McIlwain said.
“比尔的个性强，但他同时也更冷静、更高瞻远瞩，”麦基尔韦恩。
So the search for a new Microsoft chief executive continues. Progress on the search has slowed this week because of Microsoft’s earnings announcement on Thursday and Mr. Gates’s trip to Davos, said the person briefed on the process.
因此，微软挑选新首席执行官的工作仍在继续。前述了解挑选进程的人称，本周，因为微软将于周四发布收益报告，盖茨也去了达沃斯，挑选进程有所放缓。
With Mr. Mulally and other external candidates fading, people like Mr. McIlwain speculate that Microsoft is leaning towards selecting a current Microsoft executive as its new chief. Many senior executives brought into Microsoft from the outside have not fared well at the company, and that point is widely discussed among employees. Mr. McIlwain said he favored Satya Nadella, who has led the company’s cloud computing efforts and big parts of its corporate software business.
随着穆拉利和其他一些外部候选人的淡出，麦基尔韦恩等人猜测，微软正在倾向从内部挑选一位高管来出任首席执行官。微软从外部挖来的许多高管都未能有所斩获，这一点被公司员工广为讨论。麦基尔韦恩说自己支持萨蒂亚·纳德拉(Satya Nadella)。纳德拉曾领导微软的云计算业务，以及大量企业软件业务。
Wherever the person comes, the company can’t afford to have its body reject its new part. Mr. Gates seems acutely aware of that.
不管这个人来自哪里，微软都无法承受公司主体与新成员的排异反应。盖茨似乎特别清楚这一点。