WHEN Cynthia Stevenson, the superintendent of Jefferson County, Colo., public schools, heard about a data repository called inBloom, she thought it sounded like a technological fix for one of her bigger headaches. Over the years, the Jeffco school system, as it is known, which lies west of Denver, had invested in a couple of dozen student data systems, many of which were incompatible.
当科多拉多州杰斐逊县公立学校学区总监辛西娅·史蒂文森(Cynthia Stevenson)听闻了一种叫inBloom的数据储存库时，她觉得，这种东西或许可以解决她的心头大患。多年来，位于丹佛以西的杰斐逊县学区出资购买了几十种学生数据系统，其中很多都完全不兼容。
In fact, there were so many information systems — for things like contact information, grades and disciplinary data, test scores and curriculum planning for the district’s 86,000 students — that teachers had taken to scribbling the various passwords on sticky notes and posting them, insecurely, around classrooms and teachers’ rooms.
事实上，从联系信息、评分等级，到违纪数据、测试成绩，再到面向全学区8.6万名学生的课程规划，这个学区的信息系统非常庞杂，老师们只得在便签上记下各种密码，并且非常不安全地将其张贴在教室和教师办公室周围。
There must be a more effective way, Dr. Stevenson felt.
史蒂文森博士认为，他们必须采用一种更有效的方式。
InBloom, a nonprofit corporation based in Atlanta, seemed to offer a solution: it could collect information from the district’s many databases and store it in the cloud, making access easier, and protect it with high-level encryption.
总部设在亚特兰大的非营利公司inBloom，似乎提供了一项解决方案：它可以从该学区的众多数据库中收集信息，然后将其存储在更容易访问的云端，并采用高级别的加密保护措施。
The company has name-brand backing: $100 million in seed money from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation along with the Carnegie Corporation of New York. Beyond storing data, it promised to help personalize learning — by funneling student data to software dashboards where teachers could track individual students and, with the right software, customize lessons in real time. Also, districts could effortlessly share student records with developers seeking to create educational tools for schools. In other words, for Dr. Stevenson, it represented not just a fix to a narrow technical problem, but also a potentially revolutionary way to help educate students.
InBloom公司拥有大名鼎鼎的后盾力量：比尔和梅林达·盖茨基金会(Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation)联手纽约卡内基公司(Carnegie Corporation)，为该公司提供了高达1亿美元的种子资金。这家公司承诺称，除了存储数据，它还可以促进个性化学习——inBloom将学生数据汇集于仪表板管理软件，从而使老师能够追踪单个学生，并利用恰当的软件实时地为其设计课程。此外，学区还可以轻而易举地把学生记录分享给那些希望为学校设计教学工具的开发商。换言之，在史蒂文森博士看来，inBloom不仅仅是一套针对某个狭义技术问题的解决方案，它还有可能推动教学方式爆发一场革命。
“We are joining the new generation of data management,” Dr. Stevenson said enthusiastically in the March issue of “Chalk Talk,” the school district’s newsletter for parents.
在3月份向学区家长发送的简报《粉笔谈》(Chalk Talk)上，史蒂文森博士热情洋溢地写道：“我们正在加入数据管理的新一代。”
She did not imagine that five months later, she would be sitting in a special school board meeting in the district’s headquarters, listening as a series of parents, school board members and privacy lawyers assailed the plan to outsource student data storage to inBloom. What troubled the naysayers at that August session was that the district seemed to be rushing to increase data-sharing before weighing the risks of granting companies access to intimate details about children. They noted that administrators had no policies in place to govern who could see the information, how long it would be kept or whether it would be shared with the colleges to which students applied.
令她始料不及的是，5个月后，在学区总部召开的一场特殊校董会上，她遭到了犹如排山倒海般的责难，一众家长、校董和隐私事务律师纷纷抨击这项把学生数据存储业务外包给inBloom的计划。在8月份的这场会议上，反对者不安地表示，该学区似乎还没有仔细评估让私人公司获取学生详尽数据这一行为的内在风险，就急匆匆地加大了数据共享力度。他们指出，学校管理者并没有就谁有权看到这些信息，它们将被保存多久，是否会被分享给学生申请的大专院校等问题制定相应的监管政策。
“Students are currently subject to more forms of tracking and monitoring than ever before,” Khaliah Barnes, a lawyer at the Electronic Privacy Information Center in Washington who appeared via video conferencing, told the room packed with parents. “While we understand the value of data for promoting and evaluating personalized learning, there are too few safeguards for the amount of data collected and transmitted from schools to private companies.”
“学生目前受到各种跟踪和监控，其形式比以往任何时候都要多，”华盛顿电子隐私信息中心(Electronic Privacy Information Center)的律师卡利亚·巴恩斯(Khaliah Barnes)通过视频会议系统向一屋子家长说，“虽然我们理解数据对于促进和评估个性化学习的意义，但鉴于目前从学校收集并传输至私人公司的数据数量如此之大，现有的保障措施确实太少了。”
Jefferson County is not the only place where parents have challenged the adoption of inBloom. Parents in Louisiana raised a ruckus after discovering that their children’s Social Security numbers had been uploaded to inBloom. In April, Louisiana officials said they would remove all student data from the database. Of the nine states that originally signed up this year to participate, just three — Colorado, New York and Illinois — are actively pursuing the service.
杰斐逊县并不是唯一一个质疑学校与inBloom数据共享计划的地区。在发现子女的社保号码被上传至inBloom之后，路易斯安那州的家长们大为光火，纷纷发难。4月份，路易斯安那州官员表示他们将从数据库中删除所有学生的数据。在今年率先与inBloom签署合作协议的9个州中，目前仅有3个州（科罗拉多州、纽约州和伊利诺伊州）还在积极推行这项数据存储服务。
Still, that accounts for a lot of children. New York State has already uploaded data on 90 percent of 2.7 million public school and charter students — data stripped of identifiers like students’ names — into inBloom; state education officials plan to upload a complete set soon, including names.
尽管如此，这项计划依然波及许多学生。纽约州拥有270万名公立和特许学校学生，其中九成学生的数据（这些数据去除了一些标识符，比如学生姓名）已被上传至inBloom；该州教育官员计划很快将上传一套完整的数据，学生姓名亦包含在内。
But New York parents have no say in the matter, said Leonie Haimson, the executive director of Class Size Matters, a nonprofit group that has been the leading challenger of inBloom.
但是，非营利教育维权组织“课堂人数很重要”(Class Size Matters)的执行董事莱奥妮·海姆森(Leonie Haimson)表示，纽约州的家长在这个问题上没有发言权。这家机构一直是inBloom公司的主要质疑者之一。
“We are officially the worst state in the country when it comes to student privacy,” she said, speaking of New York. Educators are naturally excited about the potential for new tools to improve learning. But the Jeffco controversy is a reminder that it can be easy to leap at new and unproven technologies before considering potential risks.
“就保护学生的隐私而言，我们现在正式成为这个国家最差劲的州，”她这样评价纽约州的数据共享计划。对于新工具改进学习的潜能，教育工作者感到异常兴奋，这种心情可以理解。但杰斐逊县学区遭受的非议提醒我们，学校方面很容易在未先考虑潜在风险的情况下，就热情拥抱未经证实的新技术。
EDUCATION technology software for prekindergarten to 12th grade is an $8 billion market, according to estimates from the Software and Information Industry Association. One major reason is the Common Core State Standards Initiative, a program to standardize English and math curriculums nationally. To prepare for assessment tests for those standards, many districts across the country are investing in software to analyze individual student performance in more detail.
根据软件和信息行业协会(Software and Information Industry Association)估计，面向学前班到12年级的教育技术软件是一个价值80亿美元的市场。一个主要原因是旨在规范全美英语和数学课程的共同核心课程标准计划(Common Core State Standards Initiative)。为了准备基于这些标准的评估测试，许多学区正在投资购买软件，以更详细地分析学生个体的表现。
Services like inBloom want to speed the introduction and lower the cost of these assessment tools by standardizing data storage and security. The idea is that inBloom’s open-source code could spur developers to create apps for all its clients, reducing the need for them to customize software to each school district. In theory, that would make the products cheaper for schools.
诸如inBloom这类服务商试图为数据存储和安全性制定标准，以加快这些评估软件的引进，并降低其成本。他们的想法是，inBloom的开源代码可以激励开发人员为其所有客户创建应用程序，这样他们就不必按照每个学区的具体要求制作软件。从理论上讲，这样做将降低学校购买软件产品的成本。
Recent changes in the regulation of a federal education privacy law have also helped the industry. That law, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, required schools to obtain parental permission before sharing information in their children’s educational records. The updated rules permit schools to share student data, without notifying parents, with companies to which they have outsourced core functions like scheduling or data management.
近期修订的联邦教育隐私法律也对教育软件业有利。这项名为《家庭教育权利和隐私法案》(Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act)的法律原本要求学校在共享学生教育记录之前，必须事先获得家长的许可。修订后的法规则允许学校与帮助其打理进度或数据管理等核心功能的外包公司共享学生数据——并且不必通知家长。
InBloom made its debut in February by announcing that nine states, representing more than 11 million students, had agreed to help develop or test the technology. A month later, Bill Gates introduced it as a “new, exciting thing” in his keynote speech at SXSWedu education conference in Austin, Tex.
inBloom于2月份首次亮相。该公司当月宣布，9个州（合计拥有1100多万名学生）已经同意协助他们开发或测试数据存储技术。一个月后，在得克萨斯州奥斯汀市召开的SXSWedu教育会议上发表主题演讲时，比尔·盖茨向与会者郑重推介这种技术，称它是一个“令人兴奋的新事物”。
InBloom offers its clients a vision of continuously quantified students and seamlessly connected teachers. A video on its Web site presents a model of what this techno-utopia might look like.
在inBloom为客户描绘的美好愿景中，学生将被不断量化，而老师将实现无缝连接。一段发布于inBloom官网的视频展现了这种技术乌托邦或将呈现的一种模式。
In one scene, a teacher with a tablet computer crouches next to a second-grader evaluating how many words per minute he can read: 55 words read; 43 correctly. Later, she moves to a student named Tyler and selects an e-book “for at-risk students” for his further reading. The video follows Tyler home, where his mother logs into a parent portal for an update on his school status: attendance, 86 percent; performance, 72 percent. She taps a button and sends the e-book to play on the family TV.
在一个场景中，一位携带平板电脑的老师弯下腰评估一名二年级学生每分钟能够阅读的单词数量：读了55个单词，读对了43个。接下来，她又来到一位名叫泰勒的学生旁边，选择了一本“面向高危学生”的电子书，让他继续阅读。这段视频随后跟随泰勒回家，他的妈妈正在登陆家长门户，实时了解泰特在学校的最新表现：出勤率为86%，完成了72%的功课。她点击一个按钮，把电子书发送至家庭电视机上播放。
InBloom doesn’t actually provide any of the user-end software — the student assessment dashboard, the reading analytics app, the parent portal — shown in the video. Executives at the company see their service as the connective tissue between teachers and these technologies, which would be developed by software vendors. In other words, one inBloom goal is to streamline access to students’ data to bolster the market for educational products.
inBloom实际上并不提供这段视频显示的任何用户端软件——学生评估仪表板管理平台、阅读分析应用和家长门户等等。在该公司高管看来，他们的服务是老师和这些将由软件供应商开发的技术之间的结缔组织。换句话说，inBloom的目标是简化学生数据的访问通道，以推动教育产品市场的发展。
“We are not creating commercial apps. Our role is to sit in the middle, to facilitate that innovation,” Iwan Streichenberger, the C.E.O. of inBloom, said in a phone interview. “There are tools that come in, mine and analyze the data and make recommendations.”
“我们不是在开发商业应用。我们扮演的是为创新搭桥的角色，”inBloom公司CEO伊万·施特赖兴贝格尔(Iwan Streichenberger)在接受电话采访时表示，“我们会提供工具，挖掘和分析数据，并提出相关推荐。”
Yet, for all of inBloom’s neutral-sounding intentions, industry analysts say it has stirred some parents’ fears about the potential for mass-scale surveillance of students. Parents like Rachael Stickland, a mother of two Jeffco students, say that schools are amassing increasing amounts of information about K-12 students with little proof that it will foster their critical thinking or improve their graduation rates.
然而，尽管inBloom的意图听起来比较中性，但业内专家声称，inBloom已经在一些家长中引发了恐慌，他们担心学生有可能遭受大规模监控。比如，有两个孩子在杰斐逊县学区上学的瑞切尔·史蒂克兰德(Rachael Stickland)表示，学校正在积累越来越多K-12学生（从幼儿园到12年级的学生）的信息，但鲜有证明表明，这种方式将促进学生的批判性思维或改善他们的毕业率。
“It’s a new experiment in centralizing massive metadata on children to share with vendors,” she said, “and then the vendors will profit by marketing their learning products, their apps, their curriculum materials, their video games, back to our kids.”
“这是一项集中管理大量元数据的新实验，其目的是与供应商分享孩子的信息，”她说。“随后，这些供应商将向孩子推销它们开发的学习产品、应用程序、课程材料，并从中谋利。”
InBloom seems designed to nudge schools toward maximal data collection. School administrators can choose to fill in more than 400 data fields. Many are facts that schools already collect and share with various software or service companies: grades, attendance records, academic subjects, course levels, disabilities. Administrators can also upload certain details that students or parents may be comfortable sharing with teachers, but not with unknown technology vendors. InBloom’s data elements, for instance, include family relationships (“foster parent” or “father’s significant other”) and reasons for enrollment changes (“withdrawn due to illness” or “leaving school as a victim of a serious violent incident”).
inBloom似乎有意鼓励学校采集尽可能多的数据。学校管理者可以选择填写400多个数据字段，其中许多数据都是学校已收集并分享给各类软件或服务公司的事实：成绩、考勤记录、学习科目、课程级别和残障状况等。管理者也可以上传学生或家长可能乐意与老师共享，但不会透露给未知的技术供应商的特定细节。比如，inBloom的数据元素包括家庭关系（“养父母”或“父亲的另一半”）和学籍变化原因（“因病退学”或“作为一起严重暴力事件的受害者离开学校”）。
Ms. Barnes, the privacy lawyer, said she was particularly troubled by the disciplinary details that could be uploaded to inBloom because its system included subjective designations like “perpetrator,” “victim” and “principal watch list.” Students, she said, may grow out of some behaviors or not want them shared with third parties. She also warned educators to be wary of using subjective data points to stratify or channel children.
隐私事务律师巴恩斯女士表示，尤其让她感到困扰的是一些有可能被上传至inBloom的违纪细节，因为它的系统包含诸如“肇事者”、“受害者”和“主要观察名单”这类主观性称谓。她说，随着年龄的增长，学生的某些行为可能消失，他们或许不想让第三方获悉这些信息。此外，她还提醒教育工作者要警惕使用主观数据点对学生进行分层引导。
One scene in the inBloom video, for instance, shows a geometry teacher virtually reassigning students’ seating assignments based on their “character strengths” — helpfully coded as green, yellow and red. On his tablet, the teacher moves a green-coded female student (“actively participates: 98 percent”) next to a red-and-yellow coded boy (“shows enthusiasm: 67 percent”).
例如，在inBloom官网视频的一个场景中，一位几何老师重新调整了学生的座位，调整依据基本是他们的“性格优势”——为方便起见，被编码为绿色、黄色和红色。这位老师在其平板电脑上把一位绿色编码的女学生（“积极参与98%的活动”）调整至一位红黄编码的男孩（“对67%的活动表现出热情”）旁边。
Executives at inBloom say their service has been unfairly maligned. It is entirely up to school districts or states to decide which details about students to store in the system and with whom to share them, Sharren Bates, inBloom’s chief product officer, said. She said the company does not look at, use, analyze, mine or sell the student data it stores.
inBloom公司的高管声称，他们的服务已经受到不公平的中伤。该公司首席产品官莎伦·贝茨(Sharren Bates)表示，把学生的哪些详尽信息存储在这套系统，与谁共享这些信息等问题的决策权完全在学区或州政府手中。她说，此外，inBloom也不会浏览、使用、分析、挖掘或出售它存储的学生数据。
Ms. Bates, who had flown in from Los Angeles to address the special August session of the Jeffco school board, assured it: “All of the decisions about what data is stored and what applications are approved and what users can see that data in those applications are all a local customer decision.”
专门从洛杉矶赶来参加杰斐逊县学校董事会8月份特殊会议的贝茨女士向与会者保证：“存储哪些数据，批准哪些应用程序，哪些用户可以在这些应用程序中看到学生数据等问题相关的决策，都是由本地客户自己斟酌的。”
MS. STICKLAND, the Jeffco parent, learned about her school district’s partnership with inBloom earlier this year, while perusing an education blog.
上文提及的学生家长史蒂克兰德女士是在浏览一个教育博客时，得知她的学区今年初与inBloom达成合作协议这一消息的。
She was already attuned to data privacy and security issues because she works at a nonprofit energy organization that pays for the electricity and gas of facilities like shelters for battered women. Ms. Stickland’s job requires her to comply with strict rules that limit access to data, like addresses and phone numbers, which could make her clients vulnerable to intruders.
对于数据隐私和安全问题，她已经耳熟能详，因为她供职于一家为受虐妇女庇护所支付电费和燃气费的非营利能源机构。史蒂克兰德女士的工作要求她严格恪守限制访问数据的规则，因为一旦曝光诸如住址和电话号码这类数据，很容易让她的客户受到入侵者的伤害。
Reading about inBloom, she wondered whether Jeffco officials had investigated the ramifications of storing and sharing student data with education technology vendors.
在阅读inBloom公司的相关信息时，她怀疑杰斐逊县教育官员是否调查过集中存储并与教育技术供应商共享学生数据这一做法的后果。
She also worried that district officials might be unable to evaluate inBloom objectively, given its backing by the Gates Foundation, a major donor to public schools whose grant money Jeffco was hoping to attract. She quickly sought a meeting with Dr. Stevenson, the superintendent.
她也担心，鉴于inBloom受到盖茨基金会的支持，学区官员可能无法客观评估这项技术，因为盖茨基金会是公立学校的主要捐助者之一，杰斐逊县学区一直希望获得它的资助金。她迅速联系学区总监史蒂文森博士，希望面谈这一问题。
“I think they were star-struck and didn’t do their due diligence,” Ms. Stickland said.
“我认为他们被名人迷倒了，并没有做尽职调查，”史蒂克兰德说。
In July, the Gates Foundation awarded Jeffco a $5.2 million grant for teacher development. Lynn Setzer, a school district spokeswoman, said administrators had been completely objective in their evaluation of inBloom.
7月份，盖茨基金会授予杰斐逊县学区一笔价值520万美元的教师专项发展资金。该学区女发言人林恩·赛兹尔(Lynn Setzer)表示，在评估inBloom技术时，学校管理者秉持着完全客观的立场。
For believers in data-driven education, the idea of collating data from a student’s record has the same logic as electronic health records.
对于那些相信数据有助于驱动教育质量提升的人士来说，整理源自学生记录的数据这一想法与电子病历遵循着相同的逻辑。
“Do you want to take your child to the doctor and have three data points — height, weight and age — or do you also want data from a hospital in another state?” asked Bob Wise, a former governor of West Virginia who is an inBloom director. “I want the most data points available so my child can have the best diagnosis.”
“你是想携带3个数据点（身高、体重和年龄）就带你的孩子去看病，还是另外想要拿到来自另一个州某家医院的数据？”西弗吉尼亚州前州长、inBloom公司董事鲍勃·怀斯(Bob Wise)这样问道，“我想获得尽可能多的数据点，这样我的孩子就能够获得最好的诊断。”
Consolidating and analyzing data that the district already collects just makes common sense to some educators. David Millard, a Jeffco fifth-grade teacher, goes so far as to extract data by hand from different databases and create his own spreadsheets so he can get a more comprehensive view of his students’ progress. He thinks that parents should have access to this data about their children’s progress, too. “We are in critical need of a system that ties together the data that we have,” Mr. Millard said during the school board meeting.
在一些教育者看来，夯实和分析学区已经收集的数据是最起码的常识。杰斐逊县五年级教师大卫·米勒德(David Millard)甚至采用手工方式从不同数据库中提取数据，然后创建自己的电子表格，这样他就能够更加全面地了解学生的学业进展。他认为，家长也应该浏览这些关于子女学业进展的数据。“我们迫切需要一套系统把我们拥有的数据捆绑在一起，”米勒德在学校董事会上如是说道。
Dr. Stevenson envisions inBloom as a vital part of doing just that. The district plans to invest up to $2 million in a student assessment dashboard being built by LoudCloud Systems, a software developer in Dallas, and she wants inBloom to supply data to that dashboard. “Think of how useful your car dashboard is,” Dr. Stevenson said in a recent interview. “You know if you are going too fast, you know if you are going too slow, you know if your tires are low.”
根据史蒂文森博士的设想，inBloom正是完成这件工作的重要一环。该学区计划投资200万美元，购买达拉斯软件开发商响云系统公司(LoudCloud Systems)正在建造的一套学生评估仪表板系统。“想一想你的轿车仪表板是多么有用，”史蒂文森博士在最近一次采访中说，“你据此了解，你的车速是过快还是过慢，轮胎是否没气了。”
But inBloom isn’t actually necessary for the dashboard to work, said Manoj Kutty, chief executive of LoudCloud. His company’s system could pull student information directly from the local data storage system that Jeffco already has.
但响云系统公司首席执行官马诺·库蒂(Manoj Kutty)认为，inBloom并非这套仪表板管理系统运行的必要条件。响云系统可以直接从杰斐逊县学区已经建造的本地数据存储系统中直接抽取学生信息。
“We might be perfectly fine working with these school districts directly,” he said.
“直接与这些学区合作的效果或许会更加完美，”他说。
“FIFTY percent of this project has good intentions,” Paula Noonan, a Jeffco school board member, said of the inBloom plan. “The other 50 percent is totally full of risk that hasn’t been examined and weighed.”
“这个项目的50%拥有良好的初衷，另外50%则充满了未曾审视和权衡的风险。”杰斐逊县学校董事会成员保拉·努南(Paula Noonan)如是评价inBloom的计划。
Concerns about privacy and liability have forced the district to slow down and really think about the use of inBloom. Jeffco’s current service agreement says the data repository doesn’t guarantee that its electronic files on students are not susceptible to intrusion or attack. Other districts in Colorado, and in other states, are closely watching Jeffco as they consider participating themselves. Dr. Stevenson, who was initially reluctant to allow parents to opt out of inBloom, fearing it would be too expensive and technologically cumbersome, recently notified them that they would have that option. On the advice of privacy advocates and parents, she has also revised her original plan to upload student disciplinary data to inBloom.
对于隐私和其他不利因素的关切，已经迫使杰斐逊县学区放慢脚步，真正开始思考inBloom的使用问题。根据该学区目前的服务协议，这家数据存储库并不能保证它收集的学生电子档案在遭受入侵或攻击时坚不可摧。科罗拉多州的其他学区和其他州正在密切关注杰斐逊县学区，因为这些学区也在考虑加入inBloom计划。史蒂文森博士最初不愿意给予家长选择退出inBloom的权利，因为她担心这样做的成本过于昂贵，在技术上过于繁琐。但她最近通知家长，他们可以选择退出。此外，根据隐私权倡导人士和家长的建议，她也修改了把学生违纪数据上传至inBloom的原定计划。
“We are really looking at the classroom data that is fundamental to academic progress,” she said. “We can do that without disciplinary data.”
“我们正在切切实实地关注对于学业进步具有根本性意义的课堂数据，”她说，“没有违纪数据，我们也能做到这一点。”
The district expects to decide by January on whether to test the data repository next fall.
该学区预计将在明年1月份之前决定是否在明年秋天测试这家数据存储库。
Dr. Stevenson acknowledges that the district must develop policies to specify which data elements to upload to inBloom and the conditions under which they could be shared with vendors. The district has set up a data management advisory council, which includes some parents who work in data security and compliance. To everyone’s frustration, there are no accepted national guidelines to follow because, until now, K-12 school districts have largely managed their own data storage.
史蒂文森博士承认，杰斐逊县学区必须制定政策以详细说明哪些数据元素可上传至inBloom，在何种条件下可以与供应商共享。该学区已成立了一个数据管理咨询委员会，其成员包括一些从事数据安全和法规遵从工作的家长。让大家都感到无奈的是，目前并没有被广为接受的全国性准则，这是因为，到现在为止，K-12学区基本上都是在自行管理自己的数据存储。
“There aren’t a lot of organizations that have all of the policies in place,” Dr. Stevenson said.
“所有政策都落实到位的机构并没有多少，”史蒂文森博士说。
That means each inBloom client must develop its own policies. In New York State, for example, Thomas L. Rogers, superintendent of Nassau County schools, suggested at a recent public hearing that the state form an oversight board to manage inBloom’s practices. “My concern is that the monopoly inBloom creates sits outside the oversight of a publicly elected body,” he said.
这意味着每个inBloom客户必须制定自己的政策。例如，在最近一次公开听证会上，纽约州拿骚县学区总监托马斯·罗杰斯(Thomas L. Rogers)建议州政府成立一个监督委员会来管理inBloom公司的行为。“我担心的是，inBloom创造的垄断完全居于一个经公开选举而产生的机构的监督之外，”他说。
Ms. Bates of inBloom said it was important for school districts to define their own legitimate uses for their students’ data and to develop policies to manage them.
inBloom公司首席产品官贝茨女士表示，各学区务必要确定采用哪些方式使用学生数据是合法的，并且要制定相关的管理政策。
“We don’t have all the answers, ” she said.
“我们并不知道所有的答案，”她说。
Educators, in other words, are on their own.
换句话说，教育工作者只能根据自身实践，慢慢摸索。