TOKYO — For decades, the Japanese have called Sadaharu Oh the world’s true home run king. With 868 career home runs and many other hitting records to his name, Oh, now 73, is worshiped here as much as Babe Ruth is in America.
东京——过去几十年里，日本人一直把王贞治(Sadaharu Oh)称为全球真正的全垒打之王。现年73岁的王贞治保持着在职业生涯中打出868支全垒打的纪录，此外还有其他多项历史纪录，在日本，人们对他就像美国人对贝比·鲁斯(Babe Ruth)一样崇敬。
A few foreign players in Japan’s top league have threatened to surpass Oh’s hallowed mark of home runs in a single season, 55. And each time, opposing pitchers refused to throw pitches anywhere near the strike zone in a blatant effort to protect Oh’s record.
有几名日本职业棒球联盟的外国选手正在逼近王贞治的单赛季55支全垒打的骄人纪录。然而每一次，对方投手都拒绝把球投到好球区附近，他们这么做显然是为了维护王贞治的纪录。
But the culture of deference to Oh has seemingly ended. In a development that would have once seemed unthinkable, many Japanese fans are now rooting for Oh’s record to fall, signaling the arrival of a generation that is more comfortable than ever with the notion of knocking off national heroes.
不过，捍卫王贞治的文化似乎已经走到尽头。事情正在朝曾经看似不可思议的方向发展，现在，许多日本球迷正在为打破王贞治的纪录而摇旗呐喊，这标志着一个世代的来临，这个世代的人可以比以往任何时候都更轻松地接纳国民英雄被击败这种事。
And who is the slugger who might soon usurp Oh? Wladimir Balentien, from a tiny island in the Caribbean.
谁有可能成为取代王贞治的强击手？他就是来自加勒比海一座小岛的弗拉迪米尔·巴伦汀(Wladimir Balentien)。
“I’m going for the top,” Balentien, a native of Curaçao, in the Netherlands Antilles, told reporters after hitting his 52nd home run of the season last week for the Tokyo Yakult Swallows. “I always want to be No. 1.”
巴伦汀是库拉索人，库拉索位于荷属安的列斯群岛。上周，他为东京养乐多燕子队(Tokyo Yakult Swallows)击出本季的第52个全垒打之后对记者说，“我在争取成为第一名。我一直想成为第一名。”
Balentien, a hulking outfielder who once played in Major League Baseball for the Seattle Mariners and the Cincinnati Reds, has been unstoppable this season. Though he missed the season’s first 12 games with an injury, he has averaged a home run every two games and is hitting a league-best .340 with 111 runs batted in.
巴伦汀是一名身形彪悍的外场手，曾加入美国职业棒球大联盟（Major League Baseball，简称MLB），为西雅图水手队(Seattle Mariners)和辛辛那提红人队(Cincinnati Reds)效劳，他在本赛季的表现势不可挡。尽管因伤错失了本赛季的前12场比赛，他依然获得了平均每两场击出一支全垒打的成绩，并击出了大联盟最佳的.340打击率和111分的打点分。
He is the lone highlight for Yakult, which languishes in last place in Japan’s Central League.
他是养乐多燕子队唯一的亮点，该队在日本中央联盟(Central League)的排名一直滞留在最末位。
With only three home runs to go to match Oh’s feat and 26 games left in the season, Balentien, 29, has a more than good chance to beat it — and this time, the Japanese appear happier, or at least resigned, to let the record fall.
现年29岁的巴伦汀只需再击出三支全垒打，就能追平王贞治的纪录，鉴于他在本赛季还有26场比赛，这是他打破纪录的绝佳机会，这一次，日本人显得非常高兴，或者至少已经可以听任纪录被打破。
“Pitchers here will often avoid all-out confrontations anyway,” said Suguru Egawa, a former pitcher for Yakult’s crosstown rival, the Yomiuri Giants, who made his name in the 1980s as the only Japanese pitcher with the audacity to challenge foreign sluggers.
养乐多燕子队的同城对手读卖巨人队(Yomiuri Giants)前投手江川卓(Suguru Egawa)说，“不过，反正我们这里的投手通常会避免全力以赴的对抗的。”江川卓在上世纪80年代成名，当时是唯一胆敢和外国强击手叫板的日本投手。
“That might be a no-go in the major leagues, but it’s legitimate here. Then there’s the fact that this is a very special record.”
“在MLB，这种行为也许是被禁止的，不过在这里，它是合法的。所以还有一个事实就是，这是个非常特殊的纪录。”
Oh, though born in Japan, is a Taiwanese national, a fact often lost in the praise still piled on his celebrated career.
王贞治虽然出生在日本，却是一个台湾人，这个事实往往被掩盖在人们对他那辉煌的职业生涯的溢美之词中。
If Balentien is successful, he will leave his mark in baseball-obsessed Japan with a new home run record. He will also underscore what experts of the game say is a gradual change in the long-cloistered world of Japanese baseball, a realization that the country cannot stay isolated from the rest of the globe.
如果巴伦汀成功了，他将在痴迷于棒球的日本留下赫赫威名，创下全垒打的新纪录。棒球专家说，他还会突显长期与世隔绝的日本棒球界所发生的缓慢变化，他们认识到日本不能将自己隔绝于这个世界之外。
An online survey published late last month by the business daily Nikkei found that 69 percent of its 1,300 respondents said they were enthusiastic about Balentien’s bid to surpass Oh, and 27 percent said they were resigned to a new home run king. Less than 1 percent of respondents said that Balentien needed to be stopped at all costs.
《日经产业新闻》(Nikkei)上月末公布的一项网络调查发现，在1300名接受调查的人中，69%表示他们对巴伦汀企图超越王贞治感到很兴奋，有27%表示会听任新的全垒打之王诞生。有不到1%的人说，应该不计一切代价阻止巴伦汀。
Fans now boo pitchers who appear to be shying away from throwing Balentien strikes. This week, the Yakult Swallows added a “Coco Meter” — using Balentien’s nickname — to count down to what would be a historic home run No. 56.
球迷们现在会对那些似乎不愿像巴伦汀那样击球的棒球运动员表示不满。本周,东京养乐多燕子队添置了一个“可可里程表”——用上了巴伦汀的昵称——来为将创造历史的第56支全垒打倒数。
Foreign-born players’ efforts to break Oh’s record date back to Randy Bass, a former Minnesota Twins first baseman who joined the Hanshin Tigers in 1983. In 1985, as Bass surged toward his 55th homer, he was repeatedly walked.
外国选手试图打破王贞治纪录的努力可追溯至前明尼苏达双城队(Minnesota Twins)的一垒手兰迪·巴斯(Randy Bass)，巴斯后来在1983年加入了阪神虎(Hanshin Tigers)棒球队。1985年，就在巴斯表现神勇要打出赛季第55个全垒打时，他开始不停地被保送上垒。
The season’s final game pitted the Tigers against the Giants, managed by Oh. After two consecutive walks, Bass lunged in frustration at an outside curveball, mustering a fluke single to center, his only hit of the game.
本赛季最后一场比赛是阪神虎对阵王贞治带领下的读卖巨人队。在连续两次被保送上垒后，巴斯在绝望中前倾击打一记外曲球，侥幸击出一记中场的一垒安打，这是他那次比赛唯一一次击中球。
Oh denied giving any instructions to his pitchers to walk Bass. Still, Bass’s treatment came to highlight Japanese protectionism, especially against the backdrop of the United States-Japan trade wars at the time. Since then, the American Tuffy Rhodes and the Venezuelan Alex Cabrera matched Oh’s record, in 2001 and 2002, respectively, but were stopped short of No. 56.
王贞治否认曾指示其投球手故意保送巴斯上垒。但是，巴斯受到的对待仍突显出日本的保护主义，尤其是在日美进行贸易战的背景之下。自那以后，美国的图菲·罗兹(Tuffy Rhodes)及委内瑞拉的亚历克斯·卡布雷拉(Alex Cabrera)分别在2001年和2002年追平了王贞治创下的纪录，但却最终没能打出第56个全垒打。
In a cruel repeat of fate, Rhodes went up late in the season against Oh, who by this time was manager of another local team, the Fukuoka Daiei Hawks. He got few chances to swing. Daiei’s battery coach, Yoshiaki Wakana, later admitted in the local press that he had not wanted a foreign player to break Oh’s record.
这是命运的一次残酷重复，罗兹在那个赛季的末期和王贞治相遇，后者当时是另一支本土球队福冈大荣鹰棒球队(Fukuoka Daiei Hawks)的经理。罗兹没有得到多少击球机会。大荣鹰队的打击教练若菜嘉晴(Yoshiaki Wakana)后来在接受地方媒体采访时承认，他不想让一个外国运动员打破王贞治的纪录。
Foreign players in Japan are not just up against nationalist sentiment. They have also struggled, experts say, to get used to the Japanese way of baseball: a cautious, uptight affair filled with sacrifice hitting, midgame strategy sessions and, of course, intentional walks.
在日本的外国棒球球员需要应对的不只是该国民族主义情结带来的挑战。专家称，他们还需要努力适应日本打棒球比赛的方式：一场小心翼翼的、令人紧张不安的赛事，充斥着牺牲打、比赛中场作战策略会议以及故意的保送上垒。
Still, Balentien can expect his share of skepticism over his performance this season. A scandal erupted earlier this season after the national Nippon Professional Baseball league admitted it had quietly juiced up the official ball for greater bounce off the bat. Players in Japan had unknowingly used the juiced ball in nearly 60 games, with home runs increasing by more than 40 percent from the previous year by the time the changes were revealed.
既便如此，如果有人质疑巴伦汀在本赛季的表现也并不算意外。本赛季早些时候曝出一场丑闻，日本棒球机构联盟(Nippon Professional Baseball league)承认它曾悄悄改进其官方用球，以提高球棒击打时的弹性。日本联赛的球员在不知情的情况下在近60场比赛中使用了这种改进过的球，而截至此事被披露之时，本赛季的本垒打次数已经比去年多出40%以上。
Oh’s retirement from managing, in 2008, has started easing the pressure to keep his records intact, said Takamichi Yamada, a baseball commentator and novelist. “He is no longer a visible presence in the stadium,” Yamada said. “That’s a big change.”
棒球评论员、作家山田隆道(Takamichi Yamada)说，2008年王贞治从管理层退休后，保捍卫他的纪录渐渐变得没那么重要了。“他不再是体育馆里万众瞩目的人物，”山田隆道说。“这是个巨大的变化。”
Oh, who remains an honorary chairman of the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks, declined to comment.
仍担任福冈软银鹰队董事会执行会长的王贞治拒绝置评。
Balentien’s final few home runs will be the hardest, said Egawa, the former Giants pitcher. Foreign batter or not, no pitcher wants to be the one to go down in the history books as the one who gave up the historic pitch to Balentien.
巨人队前投手江川卓说，巴伦汀打破纪录所需的最后几次全垒打将会是最难的。不论对方是不是外国击球手，没有投球手愿意因为自己历史性的一投成全了巴伦汀而被载入史册。
“He’s going to have maybe one good ball a game to hit,” Egawa said. “He’ll have to be patient, and swing for that.”
江川卓说，“他或许每次比赛能遇到一个好球。他必须耐心等待，等到那个球然后果断出击。”