Most New Yorkers are comparative newcomers, and it’s easy to assume that nearly everyone who lives in the city started out somewhere else. Even a native-born New Yorker is a rare bird. But a relative handful of New Yorkers can claim bragging rights as fourth-, fifth- or even sixth-generation city dwellers whose families settled here many decades ago and have mostly stayed put, sinking ever deeper roots.
大多数纽约人，多多少少都算是后来者。我们很容易做出这样的假设——在这座城市里，几乎每位居民都来自外地的某处。就连在本地出生的纽约人都属凤毛麟角。然而也有少数纽约人，有资格吹嘘自己是第四代、第五代乃至第六代纽约居民。他们的家族几十年前就落脚于此，大多数人留了下来，扎根越来越深。
Members of this exclusive club remember stories told by parents, grandparents and great-aunts or uncles describing a vastly different city. Some stories are set in cold-water flats rented for a few dollars a month, others in marble mansions attended by armies of servants. A profound, almost mystical connection to the city gives these people a distinct perspective on its history and a powerful connection with its roots. They represent a living link with the city’s past.
这个少数群体的成员们记得自己小时候听父母、祖父母、姨婆或叔公们给他们讲的故事，不同讲述者所描述的纽约，是如此千差万别。有些故事的背景设在月租数美元且无热水供应的公寓里，有的则发生在仆役成群的大理石豪宅中。这些人与他们生活的城市之间，存在着深刻而几近神秘的联系；而正是这种联系，使得他们对于纽约市的历史有着独到的见解，并与这座城市的发源产生了强大的关联。他们代表着一条与这座城市的历史相通的鲜活纽带。
This population typically knows a great deal about how and where their ancestors lived. They are voracious consumers of census records, regulars on Ancestry.com, prowlers of the city’s many cemeteries, retracers of long-ago journeys, takers of sentimental pilgrimages — to the park where the grandparents first met, the bridge where a grandfather proposed.
这群人一般都十分了解祖辈们的生活方式和生活地点。他们如饥似渴地翻阅着普查记录，时常会访问族谱网站Ancestry.com，经常流连于市内的各个公墓，喜欢故地重游，开展情感朝圣之旅——比如探访祖父母第一次见面的公园，寻访祖父求婚的那座桥。
Natalie Diaz, whose mother was Camille Catenaccio, is one of these people. When she looks out the window of her faded red-brick building on Mulberry Street, she can see a neighborhood that has sheltered her family for a century.
卡蜜拉·卡泰纳乔(Camille Catenaccio)的女儿娜塔莉·迪亚兹(Natalie Diaz)就是这样的一个人。她家住在桑树街(Mulberry Street)一座褪色的红砖房里。站在窗口，她就可以俯瞰外面这片已经庇护她的家族长达一个世纪的居民区。
A great-grandfather on her mother’s side, Alexander Tisi, arrived on Ellis Island from Naples as a baby around 1900, and his people settled in this district, their first address a 350-square-foot tenement apartment. In the building where Ms. Diaz lives, four generations of relatives have made their home. She grew up in the building, and her parents, sister and aunt and uncle live there today. The restaurant Il Piccolo Bufalo, on the ground floor, is one of three businesses her family runs in what she calls “the real Little Italy.”
1900年，曾外祖父亚历山大·蒂西(Alexander Tisi)被人从那不勒斯（Naples，意大利南部坎帕尼亚区省会城市——译注）带到了埃利斯岛（Ellis Island，美国纽约东南部上纽约湾的一个岛——译注），那时他还是个婴儿。一行人在这个地区定居下来，最开始住的地方是一个350平方英尺（约合33平方米）的出租公寓。在迪亚兹居住的这栋楼里，先后有四代族人安了家。不仅她在这里长大，父母、妹妹、叔叔和阿姨现在也都住在这里。一楼的餐厅Il Piccolo Bufalo，是她的家族在被她称为“真正的小意大利”的这片地区经营的三处生意之一。
Come September, when Ms. Diaz looks out the window of her second-floor apartment, a pair of conjoined railroad flats for which she pays under $2,000 a month, she will see the glittering garlands that herald the Feast of San Gennaro, an annual event that Alexander Tisi, with long-ago neighbors, helped start in 1927.
迪亚兹现在住的，是两套彼此相连的列车式公寓（railroad flat，没有走廊的狭长公寓，各房间像火车车厢般连接成一条,要通过一个房间走到其他房间——译注），公寓在二楼，房租是每月不到2000美元（约合人民币12185元）。如果9月份来，站在她家窗口就能看到璀璨的花环，预示着圣真纳罗迎神节(Feast of San Gennaro)的到来。这个节日，正是当年亚历山大·蒂西和邻居们在1927年协助发起的。
“This is my legacy,” said Ms. Diaz, who is 36, the mother of 8-year-old twins and founder of a business called Twiniversity, which serves parents of twins and triplets. “Everything I’ve ever known has been on Mulberry Street.”
“这是祖辈留给我的遗产，”现年36岁的迪亚兹说。身为八岁双胞胎的母亲，她创立了一家名为Twiniversity的公司，旨在为双胞胎和三胞胎父母提供服务。“我所知道的一切，都在桑树街上。”
Despite the midcentury exodus that sent many people to the suburbs, various factors have kept generations of New Yorkers rooted to the city — good schools, abundant hospitals, closeness to relatives and to churches and synagogues, secure and well-paying union jobs as teachers or civil servants, and especially the distinctive nature of the city’s housing stock.
尽管上世纪中叶时，掀起了一股逃离市中心的浪潮，很多人移居到了郊区；但仍有很多因素，使得一代又一代的纽约人依旧扎根在城市——好的学校，更多医院，距离亲戚和教堂近便，像教师或公务员这样有工会负责的、有保障又薪水高的工作，而尤为重要的，是城里住房储备的特殊性质。
“God bless rent control,” said Simeon Bankoff, the executive director of the Historic Districts Council and a fourth-generation New Yorker whose maternal grandmother was born in 1918 on Hester Street on the Lower East Side. “That created a legacy in which apartments could be inherited by the next generation.”
“上帝保佑租金管制(rent control)，”历史街区理事会(Historic Districts Council)的执行董事西米恩·班考夫(Simeon Bankoff)表示。班考夫是第四代纽约客，他的外祖母1918年出生于下东区(Lower East Side)的海斯特街(Hester Street)。“这就形成了一个传统，那就是公寓能够被下一代人继承。”
New Yorkers in neighborhoods outside Manhattan also benefited from two-family houses that proved infinitely elastic as they were retrofitted over the years to accommodate everyone from grandparents to grown children. “And if you wanted to move to a more suburban area,” Mr. Bankoff said, “you could do that while staying in New York. You could move to a place like Forest Hills.”
生活在曼哈顿之外的社区里的纽约人，也从两户式住房(two-family house)中获得了实惠。这种户型具有无限的灵活性，可以随着居住年月的增长，将其加以改装，使祖孙三代都能同居一个屋檐下。“如果你想搬到离市中心远一点的地方，”班考夫说，“你仍可以住在纽约市内，可以搬到一个类似森林山（Forest Hills，位于纽约市的皇后区。——译注）这样的地方。”
Familiar roots in a city can make a person long to escape, but they can also act as geographical glue, imbuing a person with so many rich memories that leaving is unthinkable. So it has been forMary Bartos,68, a proud fourth-generation New Yorker who runs the Pan American Phoenix Shop on Lexington Avenue, which her mother, Martha Bartos, founded in the ‘50s.
一个人若对自己从小长大的城市太熟悉，可能会萌生逃离的念头，但另一方面，这种亲切感也可能成为一种羁绊，令人沉浸在太多的回忆里，以至抽身离去是不可想象的。现年68岁的玛丽·巴托斯(Mary Bartos)就属于后一种情况。她是第四代纽约客，并引以为豪。巴托斯经营着列克星敦大道(Lexington Avenue)的墨西哥手工艺品店Pan American Phoenix Shop，是由她的母亲玛莎·巴托斯(Martha Bartos)在上世纪50年代创立的。
Mary Bartos’s maternal grandmother, Edith Littenberg, was born on the Lower East Side in 1884 and met her husband, Jacob Voice, at a neighborhood settlement house. Both had roots in Eastern Europe, and the grandmother, who cut an elegant figure, was known as the Duchess of Essex Street.
玛丽·巴托斯的外祖母伊迪丝·李腾伯格(Edith Littenberg)1884年出生于下东区，她在街区的文教所（settlement house，又称社区活动中心[community center]，是社区的服务机构和公共活动场所——译注）里结识了未来的丈夫雅各布·沃伊斯(Jacob Voice)。两人的祖籍都在东欧。伊迪丝当年是个大美人，被人称为“埃塞克斯街的公爵夫人”。
Mary’s mother was born in 1914, in New Jersey, but ended up in New York by the time she was in high school. Mary lived in a rent-controlled three-bedroom on East 85th Street for which the family paid $150 a month, though when the cost went up, they decamped to East 65th Street.
玛丽的母亲1914年出生于新泽西，但在高中时来到了纽约。她住在东85街一套租金管制的三室房里，家里每个月支付150美元（约合人民币914元）的房租。不过，在租金上涨后，他们搬到了东65街。
Ms. Bartos remembers a golden-hued Manhattan childhood — ice-skating in Central Park on Sunday mornings, celebrating birthday parties in the park, taking in the Saturday-morning cartoon show at the Trans-Lux 85th Street, playing a game called Off the Point — bouncing a ball from one side of the street to another on cross streets almost devoid of traffic.
巴托斯现在依然能想起童年时的那些黄金岁月——周日早上到中央公园去滑雪，在公园里开生日派对，周六早上去第85街观看Trans-Lux公司制作的卡通秀，在几乎没有车流的十字街上，玩一种叫做“Off the Point”的游戏——拍着球从街道的一侧跑到另一侧。
These days she is happily ensconced in a one-bedroom penthouse in a white-brick co-op on East 78th Street that she bought in 1985 for $275,000. “New York can be a hard place to move to,” Ms. Bartos said. “But for me, it’s just very comfortable. I never contemplated not being a New Yorker. I can’t imagine living anywhere else.”
现如今，她愉快地安顿在了东78街上一栋白色砖墙的合作公寓里，住着一套一居室的顶层公寓，那是她在1985年花275000美元（约合人民币167.55万元）买下的。“对于移居到此的人来说，纽约可能是个环境艰难的地方，”巴托斯说，“但对于我，这里是很舒适。我从来没想过放弃做个纽约人。住在其他任何地方对我而言都是无法想象的。”
Living on the footprint of ancestors can offer solace. But even if a neighborhood has been spiffed up and transformed seemingly for the better, the loss of once-gritty streets can feel like a betrayal. The disappearance of beloved institutions — the drugstore, the bookstore, even a deli that locals called the Ptomaine Stop — can feel like a series of slow-motion deaths, as it does for Arthur Nersesian, a playwright, poet and novelist who has lived for three decades on the Lower East Side.
住在祖辈们生活过的地方，能够获得一种慰藉。就算一处住宅区的环境得到了改善、看似正在朝更好的方向发展，但若眼看着曾经熟悉的街道变得面目全非，终究会令人有遭背叛之感。看着药房、书店甚至被当地人戏称为“肉毒胺集中营”（Ptomaine Stop，肉毒胺是动物和蔬菜腐烂后产生的物质——译注）的熟食店这些自己曾喜欢去的地方一个个地消失，感觉就像经历一系列慢镜头的死亡。编剧、诗人和小说家亚瑟·内尔赛西安(Arthur Nersesian)就是这么想的，他在下东区已经住了三十年。
Through his Irish-American mother, Honora Agnes Burke, Mr. Nersesian, 54, can trace his New York roots back five generations. Many of his forebears lived and worked near the one-bedroom on Fourth Street and First Avenue where he lives today.
通过他的母亲、爱尔兰裔美国人霍诺拉·艾格尼丝·伯克(Honora Agnes Burke)，现年54岁的内尔赛西安可将自己家族在纽约的生活史追溯到五代以前。现在，他住在第4街近第一大道处的一居室里，很多他先辈生活和工作过的地方，离这里都很近。
Mr. Nerserian’s great-great-grandfather Richard Burke immigrated from Ireland around 1860 and lived in a tenement near Tompkins Square Park. His great-grandfather Thomas P. Burke, also a resident of the neighborhood, was a political operator and so vivid a figure in Mr. Nersesian’s mind that he can imagine him counting ballots on Pearl and Water Streets. His grandfather Patrick G. Burke was born in 1898 on Ninth Street and Avenue B.
内尔赛西安的高外祖父理查德·伯克在1860年前后从爱尔兰移民到美国，住在汤普金斯广场公园(Tompkins Square Park)附近的出租屋里。其曾外祖父托马斯·P·伯克(Thomas P. Burke)也是这个住宅区的居民。作为一名政客，他在内尔赛西安脑海中的形象极为鲜活，以至于内尔赛西安至今还能想象他统计珍珠街(Pearl Street)和水街(Water Street)选票的情形。而内尔赛西安的外祖父帕特里克·G·伯克(Patrick G. Burke)则于1898年出生在第9街近B大道(Avenue B)的地方。
In 1983 Mr. Nersesian found his own berth in the neighborhood, a small rental facing an air shaft in a one-time tenement, for which he pays under $1,000 a month. “I was excited about moving to the East Village,” he said. “I was, what? — 22, 23, 24? You think you’ll never get old.”
1983年，内尔赛西安在这个住宅区里找到了自己的安身之所，那是一间小小的出租屋，面朝通风井，租约是一次性的，房租是每月不到1000美元（今天约合人民币6093元）。“搬到东村(East Village)让我很兴奋，”他说，“当时我多少岁来着？——22，23还是24岁？在那个年纪，你会觉得自己永远不会老。”
For him the neighborhood is a palimpsest of memories, and he misses the edgier ones — the strip joints, the bonfires in the park. “Just after World War II,” he said, “my father paid $8 a week for a studio apartment on Mott Street in what’s now fashionable NoLIta. Streets I barely dared to walk down are now lined with restaurants I can’t afford.” He remembers streets so quiet you could hear footsteps in the night.
对他而言，如今的这片住宅区就像一部擦去旧文、另抄新篇的重写本。而他很怀念昔日一些着实刺激的片段——比如看脱衣舞，还有在公园里点篝火。“二战刚结束，”他说，“我父亲以每周8美元（今天约合人民币49元）的价格，在莫特街(Mott Street)租了一套单间公寓(studio apartment)，公寓所在的地方就是现在很新潮的“诺利塔”（NoLIta，全称“North of Little Italy”，意为“小意大利区北部”——译注）。有些街道我在小的时候都不敢走，而现在那里开满了我消费不起的餐馆。”他记得，当时街上很寂静，在晚间你甚至能听清脚步声。
“It’s a formula for curmudgeonliness,” Mr. Nersesian, a rumpled figure with a mop of gray curls, said of his desire to recapture a long-evaporated past. “You become a teller of tales no one wants to hear.”
如今，内尔赛西安的脸上布满了皱纹，一头卷发也已变得灰白。在谈及自己对重温消逝已久的旧时光是多么渴望时，他说，“这就是变成倔老头的模式，你开始喋喋不休地讲一些没人愿意听的故事。”
To ease his feelings of loss, he walks the city with a passion — a regular three-and-a-half-hour loop takes him across the Queensboro Bridge and back over the Williamsburg. New York is a character that runs through his work, including his 11th book, “Gladys of the Hunt,” to be published in January.
为了缓解自己的失落感，他总带着高昂的兴致在城里散步。他一般要花三个半小时走上一圈，跨过皇后区大桥(Queensboro Bridge)，再返回到威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)。纽约经常出现在他的作品中，包括他的第11本书——今年1月出版的《Gladys of the Hunt》。
“This is my city,” he said. Still, he would depart the Lower East Side in a heartbeat if he could. “The neighborhood has outgrown me,” he said. “But I can’t afford to leave.”
“这是我的城市，”他说。但他仍然可能在一念之间做出离开下东区的决定，前提是他能离开，“这个社区发展得太快，已经让我不适应了，”他说，“但我又离不开这里。”
For people whose family roots in the city run deep and whose forebears include artists, New York becomes a place of the imagination as well as a creation of stone and brick and steel. So it is for Daniel Soyer, 55, a grandson of the celebrated 20th-century painter Moses Soyer, whose twin was the artist Raphael Soyer.
有些纽约人在这座城市中的家庭根基很深，祖辈当中还出过艺术家。对于他们而言，纽约既是一个激发想象力的地方，又是砖石、钢铁构筑起来的城市。现年55岁的丹尼尔·索耶尔(Daniel Soyer)就是这么想的。索耶尔的祖父是20世纪著名的画家摩西·索耶尔(Moses Soyer)，而且他的双胞胎兄弟拉斐尔·索耶尔(Raphael Soyer)也是一位艺术家。
Dr. Soyer is a professor of history at Fordham, where his specialties are American immigration and American Jewish history, and for him, the city exists on multiple levels. The brothers’ work, combined with his own knowledge of family history and history in general, “gives the city another dimension, a fourth dimension,” Dr. Soyer said. “I see it back through time as well as in space.”
丹尼尔·索耶尔博士是福坦莫大学(Fordham University)的历史学教授，专攻美国移民史和美国犹太人史。对他而言，纽约是存在于众多层面上的。祖父两兄弟的作品，加上他本人对家族史和历史的掌握，“赋予这座城市另一个维度，可以说是第四维度，”索耶尔说，“我在那其中既上溯了时间，又变换着空间。”
On both sides of his family, he can trace a tangle of great-grandparents and even a great-great-grandparent who immigrated to New York a century or more ago. The Soyer brothers, who were born in Russia in 1899, immigrated with their family in 1912 and settled in the Bronx.
无论是从父系还是母系亲属来看，索耶尔家族移居纽约的历史都可以追溯到曾祖辈，甚至是高祖辈，时间至少在一个世纪以前。索耶尔祖父兄弟二人1899年出生于俄罗斯，1912年随家人移民到美国后，定居在布朗克斯(Bronx)。
When Dr. Soyer was growing up in Sunnyside, Queens, his grandparents Moses and Ida, a former dancer, lived on West Ninth Street in Greenwich Village, in quarters appropriate for the successful bohemians they were. The apartment, which had interior French doors, appeared to have been carved out of a bigger apartment.
索耶尔博士是在皇后区的Sunnyside街区长大的，那时候，他的祖父母——摩西和曾是舞蹈演员的艾达(Ida)，居住在格林尼治村西9街，那个地区正适合他们这种成功的波西米亚人居住。他们的公寓里有室内法式对开门，看起来是从一套更大的公寓中分割出来的一样。
“The building was a little run-down,” said Dr. Soyer, who visited his grandparents often. “But it was an exciting location. There was an old Italian doorman who was missing some fingers because he’d gotten them caught in the elevator gate. Apparently, that sort of thing was common in those days.”
“那栋楼有点破败了，”索耶尔回忆道，当时他经常去看望祖父母，“不过那也是个令人兴奋的地方。门卫是个意大利老人，缺了几根手指，是被电梯门夹断的。显然，在那个年代，这种事情经常发生。”
The Soyer brothers produced countless images that captured the face of the metropolis — its streets, its subways, the Brooklyn Bridge. A work that resonates with many people is Raphael’s 1926 “Dancing Lesson.” “You can see the whole family,” Dr. Soyer said, “the parents, Abraham and Bella, sitting on the couch, Bella with a Yiddish newspaper; the grandmother sleeping on the couch; Israel, the brother of Moses and Raphael, playing the harmonica; the sister Rebbie teaching Moses how to dance.”
索耶尔兄弟俩当年创作了不计其数的画作，捕捉了大都会的风貌——纽约的街道、地铁和布鲁克林桥(Brooklyn Bridge)尽在他们的画笔之下。其中为很多人深有共鸣的一幅，是拉斐尔于1926年创作的《舞蹈课》(Dancing Lesson)。“你可以看到，一家人都在那幅画里，”索耶尔说，“他的父母亚伯拉罕和贝拉(Bella)坐在沙发上，贝拉在读一份意第绪语的报纸；贝拉的母亲睡在沙发上；摩西和拉斐尔的另一个兄弟伊斯雷尔(Israel)在吹口琴；而他们的妹妹瑞比(Rebbie)在教摩西怎么跳舞。”
Dr. Soyer lives in the Kensington section of Brooklyn, in a century-old four-bedroom house whose décor includes a portrait of Louis Chassner, a tailor who was Moses’s father-in-law. He has always had a passionate interest in the world of his fathers. “It’s probably no accident that I’m not studying ancient Chinese history,” he said.
索耶尔博士现住在布鲁克林肯辛顿区(Kensington)的一套四居室别墅中，房龄已经有一个世纪了，屋里装饰着一幅路易·沙斯涅(Louis Chassner)的画像，他是摩西的岳父，一位裁缝。索耶尔对于自己父辈的世界一直怀有浓厚的兴趣。“我没有选学中国古代史或许并不是偶然，”他说。
Even New Yorkers who can trace their roots back to the 19th or 18th centuries might seem like arrivistes to Christian DeRuiter. When Mr. DeRuiter stands at the Battery at the southern tip of Manhattan, he sees in his mind’s eye a small ship arriving in the 1620s or 1630s with the first Dutch families to the New World. Among those hardy newcomers was a young woman named Hannah de Flught.
即便是那些扎根纽约的时间可以追溯到18、19世纪的纽约客，在克里斯蒂安·德鲁伊特(Christian DeRuiter)的眼里，或许也只是些新来的投机者而已。站在曼哈顿最南端的巴特里公园(Battery Park)中，德鲁伊特脑海中浮现出的是一艘小船，早在17世纪二十或三十年代，它就载着第一批荷兰家庭抵达了这片新大陆。在这些吃苦耐劳的新来客当中，有一名年轻的姑娘，名叫汉娜·德·弗卢特(Hannah de Flught)。
Hannah was an ancestor on his father’s side of the family, “at least a dozen generations back and maybe more,” said Mr. DeRuiter, who is 42 and the pastoral events coordinator at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Morningside Heights.
汉娜是德鲁伊特的父系长辈。“至少是十几代以前的祖辈了，可能辈分还要更高，”德鲁伊特说。德鲁伊特现年42岁，在晨边高地（Morningside Heights，曼哈顿西北部的一个社区——译注）的纽约圣约翰神明大教堂(Cathedral of St. John the Divine)担任牧师活动的联络人。
Drawing from family stories handed down by an elderly aunt, combined with faded documents and entries in diaries in a trunk in the aunt’s New Jersey attic, Mr. DeRuiter has pieced together what he can about his long-ago ancestor.
德鲁伊特从一位年迈的姨妈那里听闻了一些家族故事，又从她位于新泽西的居所阁楼里找到一些日记，其中的文件和记录都已褪色。通过这些资料，他尽可能将祖辈汉娜的故事拼凑了起来。
Given his knowledge of the colony’s history, he suspects that she lived near the wharf. Although he has no clue as to her character or personality, given Dutch traditions of hospitality and entrepreneurship, especially on the part of women, he suspects that she might have run a boardinghouse and, like many of the new arrivals, been active in the Dutch Reformed Church.
依照他对殖民史的了解，他怀疑汉娜当初住在码头附近。尽管他对她的性格或人品一无所知，但是考虑到荷兰人素有热情好客的传统和开拓进取的精神——女性尤其如此，他认为她或许经营着一家膳宿公寓，而且和许多初到新大陆的人一样，在荷兰归正教会(Dutch Reformed Church)里表现活跃。
Most of Hannah’s descendants probably fled the city when the English swept them out in the late 17th century, he said, though they stayed close to the Hudson River, settling in New Jersey or upstate New York. Mr. DeRuiter, however, has spent his life in New York. He grew up in New Dorp, Staten Island, and lives with his wife in a one-bedroom walk-up in Midwood, Brooklyn.
汉娜的多数子孙或许都在17世纪末被英国移民赶出了纽约，他说。不过他们依然留在了哈得逊河(Hudson River)附近，定居在新泽西或纽约州的北部。不过德鲁伊特本人一生都是在纽约度过的。他在斯塔顿岛(Staten Island)的新村(New Dorp)长大，现在和妻子住在布鲁克林米德伍德(Midwood)的一套无电梯一居室公寓内。
His direct link to one of the city’s earliest settlers has given him a powerful, even visceral sense of what their lives must have been like. “I’ve always had a passion for history,” Mr. DeRuiter said the other day, sitting in the cathedral’s baptistry beneath the colorful Peter Stuyvesant heraldry, which honors the colony’s last Dutch director general.
他与一名纽约最早的定居者有着如此直接的血脉联系，这使他对于这些定居者的生活状态有着强烈的感受，甚至是直觉。“我对历史一直抱着浓厚的兴趣，”德鲁伊特前不久说道，当时他正坐在教堂的浸礼池中，头顶上是彼得·史岱文森（Peter Stuyvesant，1592-1672，荷兰殖民总督——译注）的彩色纹章，这枚纹章纪念的是荷兰的末代总督。
And he often contemplates the brutal voyage his young ancestor must have endured. “I can almost picture it,” he said. “What a scary prospect it must have been to arrive in the New World.”
他也时常沉思，自己那位年轻的祖先在漂洋过海时究竟经历了多少艰险，“我几乎能想象出当时的画面，”他说，“到达一片完全陌生的大陆，她要面对怎样可怕的前途。”