WASHINGTON — TO go by much of the commentary about Iraq in recent days, the country is already past the breaking point under the lightning campaign by Sunni insurgents. Reinforced by hardened fighters from Syria and sympathetic communities in northern and western Iraq, the insurgents control much of Mosul, the most important city in northern Iraq, and Tikrit, the home of Saddam Hussein’s clan, and they have laid siege to Samarra, the site of one of Shiism’s most storied shrines. It would be no surprise if the next few weeks brought them to the gates of Baghdad.
华盛顿——从近期关于伊拉克的大部分评论来看，这个国家在逊尼派叛乱分子的迅速行动之下，早已过了崩溃的临界点。在来自叙利亚的顽固武装人员，以及伊拉克北部和西部持同情态度的民众的支持下，叛乱分子控制了伊拉克北部最重要的城市摩苏尔的大部分地区，攻占了萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)家族所在的提克里特。他们还围困了萨马拉，那里有什叶派最著名的圣陵。如果他们在接下来几周里兵临巴格达城下，也不必感到震惊。
But an assault on Baghdad, or even its capture, would be an illusory victory. It can only end in defeat — and the strengthening of the insurgents’ sworn Shiite enemies in Baghdad and, especially, Tehran.
但是对巴格达发动袭击，甚至夺取巴格达，都只是胜利的幻觉。这场叛乱只会以失败告终，叛乱分子在巴格达和德黑兰（尤其是后者）的什叶派仇敌，力量一定会得到加强。
First, consider the brute demographic reality. Unlike in Syria, Sunnis are a relatively small part of the Iraqi population, about 25 percent — though they are a majority in some areas of the west and north. And in Baghdad their numbers are minuscule.
首先，请看看人口分布方面的残酷现实。与叙利亚不同，逊尼派在伊拉克人口中所占比例相对较小，约有25%，虽然他们在西部和北部的一些地区占大多数。在巴格达，比例更是少之又少。
The reason for this lies in an earlier Sunni revolt triggered by the second gulf war. Baghdad was the target then, too, and its Sunni population was about 35 percent. As the Sunnis asserted themselves militarily, Shiites struck back; by 2008, when their fury was largely spent, Sunnis were reduced to as little as 12 percent of the city’s population.
造成这种状况的原因是，第二次海湾战争所引发的更早的一次逊尼派反叛。那时巴格达也是攻击目标，逊尼派人口当时约占巴格达的35%。随着逊尼派在军事方面越来越强硬，什叶派开始反击；到2008年怒火平息之时，逊尼派人口下降到了这座城市的12%。
If the insurgents of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, enter Baghdad’s residual Sunni neighborhoods, they will likely be welcomed, but they won’t have much to work with, nor will they have the strategic depth they will need in the street fighting that ensues.
如果伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的武装分子进入巴格达剩余的逊尼派社区，很可能会受到欢迎。但是他们能够利用的资源不会很多，而且也无法得到在随后的巷战中需要的战略纵深。
Moreover, rather like what happened in Syria, the Sunni offensive is likely to spur a transformation of the Iraqi Army from the sorry mess it is now into a more resilient and operationally effective force.
此外，与叙利亚的情况相似，逊尼派的攻势很可能会促使伊拉克军队发生转变，从目前可怜兮兮的一团糟，变成一支更强韧、行动更有效的部队。
In Syria, the army reeled in the face of the rebellion in 2011; desertions were rife and large sections of territory were lost to the insurgency. But as incompetent commanders were killed or relieved and a new leadership emerged, the army was able to bring its vastly greater firepower to bear on an increasingly fractionated adversary. Its combat capability was multiplied by the successful integration of civilian militias and the intelligence and tactical advice supplied by Iran. This trajectory is likely to be replicated in Iraq.
在叙利亚，2011年当叛乱分子发动进攻时，军队惊慌失措；放弃阵地的现象很普遍，大片领土被反对派武装夺取。但是，随着不称职的指挥官被杀或被解职，新的指挥官在军队当权，军队得以运用其强大的火力优势，来打击日益分化的对手。此外，由于成功整合了民兵，再加上伊朗提供的情报和战术建议，政府军的作战能力得以成倍提升。这种趋势很可能会在伊拉克重现。
The character of the Sunni offensive will mobilize more than just the army. Mass execution has been meshed with the use of religious symbolism by the insurgents, who framed their objective as extirpating “the filth” — Shiite teaching and believers — from Najaf and Karbala, the two holiest Shiite cities. In a minority war on a majority population, this is a suicidal tactic. The Shiites will hit back even harder than last time.
逊尼派的进攻特点不仅会激发军队的斗志。叛乱分子实施了大规模处决，而且还运用了宗教象征。他们称，进攻的目标是把“污秽”——即什叶派教义和信众——从两座最神圣的什叶派城市纳杰夫和卡尔巴拉清除出去。在一场以少数人口对多数人口发动的战争中，这是一种自杀式的策略。什叶派的反击将会比上一次更加猛烈。
In addition to being hobbled by their paltry numbers, the rebels have chosen to make war on an adversary with powerful friends who have a serious stake in the future of Iraq.
除了在人数上处于劣势以外，叛乱分子所选择的作战对象还拥有强大的朋友，而且伊拉克的未来对于这些强大的朋友来说十分重要。
Iran has already pledged assistance to the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki and reportedly deployed elite units of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps to Iraq. The United States has sent an aircraft carrier and amphibious assault ship to the Persian Gulf and stepped up intelligence help for the Iraqi government.
伊朗已经向伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)的政府承诺会提供援助，而且据称已将伊斯兰革命卫队(Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps)的精锐部队派往伊拉克。美国也派遣航空母舰和水陆两栖攻击舰前往波斯湾，而且还在情报方面加强了对伊拉克政府的援助。
Although Washington is unlikely to use force directly against the rebels — in part because insurgents don’t present the kind of targets that American air power is optimized to destroy, and in part because of reluctance to re-engage militarily in Iraq — the kind of advisory help, material assistance and diplomatic support that is on offer will stiffen Iraq’s spine. Perceptions, real or imagined, of American and Iranian collusion will help, too.
虽然华盛顿不太可能直接用武力攻击叛乱分子——既是因为叛乱分子没有美国空军力量最善于摧毁的那种目标，也是因为美国不愿意再次让军队陷入伊拉克——但美国所提供的顾问协助、物资援助和外交支持，也能让伊拉克挺起脊梁。美国与伊朗进行合作的印象——不论是真的还是只是想象，也都能起到帮助。
At the same time, gulf states that tacitly support the rebels as payback against Iran for its perceived takeover of Iraq will do nothing to support the rebels’ military campaign, for fear of creating an uncontrollable situation, even if their nationals privately fund the rebel army.
一些海湾国家由于感觉伊朗控制了伊拉克，暗地里支持反叛分子作为报复。但此时，尽管这些海湾国家的公民可能会私下资助叛军，但政府并不会支持反叛分子的军事行动，因为他们担心那样会使局面失控。
And once the fighting is over, the Sunnis will be even more isolated than before. President Obama’s call for a multiethnic governing coalition aside, it is inconceivable that Mr. Maliki will now reverse his policy of excluding Sunnis from governance.
此外，一旦战争结束，逊尼派就会陷入比以往更孤立的境地。虽然奥巴马总统呼吁伊拉克建立多族群的执政联盟，但是仍然无法想象马利基不让逊尼派参与统治的立场，现在能够扭转。
In short, despite the rapid success of the Sunni campaign, it is a kamikaze attack that will make the Shiite hold on the Iraqi state stronger, not weaker.
简而言之，虽然逊尼派的攻势迅速取得了成功，但是这种自杀性的袭击将加强而非削弱什叶派对伊拉克的控制。
That said, it’s unlikely that Mr. Maliki will have the stomach to retake the Sunni-majority areas of western Iraq anytime soon. The rump Iraq, like the Assad regime in Syria, will be ever more in thrall to Iran, and committed to domestic policies that make the reconstitution of the country via a political process ever more unlikely.
尽管如此，马利基也不太可能有勇气在短时间内夺回伊拉克西部，以逊尼派为主的地区。与叙利亚的阿萨德政权一样，伊拉克其他区域将在更大程度上受制于伊朗，它坚持采取的国内政策，也会使通过政治手段来重组国家的任务更难以实现。
That’s hardly an optimal outcome for Washington: Among other things, Washington’s support for the Maliki government will put further strain on its ties to the gulf states; it will also complicate any effort to deal aggressively with Iran, with which it will find itself in an odd-couple alliance.
这对华盛顿而言并不是个理想的结果：别的不说，美国政府对马利基政府的支持，将使美国与海湾国家的关系变得更加紧张；对伊朗采取强硬立场的任何努力，也会因此变得更加复杂，美国会发现自己和伊朗结成了一个奇怪的联盟。