EAST HAMPTON, N.Y. — Sometimes, Valerie Smith reminds herself that she is not a pollster, she is just selling cups — plastic drinking cups with the presidential candidates’ names. But she has been keeping track, just like a pollster, and hoping that her cup count is as reliable as it was in the last three presidential races.
纽约州东汉普顿——有时候，瓦莱丽·史密斯(Valerie Smith)会提醒自己，她不是做民调的，只是个卖杯子的，那种印有总统候选人名字的塑料饮水杯。但她一直在像民调工作人员一样记录数据，并希望自己的水杯数目能像在过去三次总统选举中那样可靠。
The tally on the final weekend before Election Day — the number of cups sold in her shop here since just after the Super Tuesday primaries in March, when she started counting in earnest — was 4,908 for Hillary Clinton and 3,384 for Donald Trump.
在选举日前的最后一个周末，店里的账目，也就是3月的“超级星期二”初选——她是从那时候才开始认真计数的——刚结束以来售出的水杯数量是，代表希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的杯子卖出4908个，代表唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的杯子卖出3384个。
If the cup count is wrong, Smith will join famous egg-on-their-face prediction makers like The Literary Digest, which had a perfect record for 20 years until it called the election of 1936 for Alfred M. Landon over President Franklin D. Roosevelt. Or The Chicago Tribune, which was so sure in 1948 that it published the infamous banner headline “Dewey Defeats Truman.”
如果水杯数目的结果与真实结果相左，史密斯将加入做出错误预测的著名机构的行列，如《文学文摘》(The Literary Digest)和《芝加哥论坛报》(The Chicago Tribune)，名声扫地。《文学文摘》在长达20年的时间里一直保持着完美的记录，直到它预测阿尔弗雷德·M·兰登(Alfred M. Landon)会在1936年的选举中打败总统富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)。在1948年，《芝加哥论坛报》如此确定以至登出了令其声名狼藉的通栏大标题“杜威击败杜鲁门”(Dewey Defeats Truman)。
Smith’s count is not the usual pre-election survey. It is based on a random sample — whoever walks into her store, the Monogram Shop, and buys the cups. But it is skewed toward the extremely wealthy. East Hampton’s average household income is $126,382 a year, almost 2 1/2 times the national average. And the results can be clouded another way, when customers buy more than one cup. The cups are labeled with campaign logos she has copied when they are available, or designs she has created when they are not.
史密斯的统计并不是常见的选前调查。它是基于一份随机的样本——走进她经营的“字母组合商店”(Monogram Shop)买杯子的随便什么人。但这个样本向极度富裕的人群倾斜。东汉普顿的平均家庭收入是一年126382美元（约合85.6万元人民币），几乎是全国平均水平的2.5倍。如果顾客买的杯子不止一个时，结果可能会以另外一种方式受到破坏。这些杯子上印着她找机会复制下来的竞选标识，或是她在没机会复制时自行设计的图案。
Professional pollsters have used computers since the days when computers were primitive, but at the Monogram Shop, the daily running total is kept on a handwritten piece of paper. It is updated at closing time, and the numbers are posted on the store window, just as in 2004, 2008 and 2012. The final counts from those three races are elusive. “They must be in the computer,” she said last week, “but I can’t find them.”
从计算机还颇为简单的时候开始，专业的民调工作人员便将它作为工具，但在“字母组合商店”，售出的总数被手写在一张纸上，打烊时会更新，最新数字会公布在商店的橱窗上，同2004年、2008年和2012年时一模一样。她难以找到那三次选举中的最后数字。“它们肯定存在电脑里了，”她上周说。“但我找不到。”
Her shop specializes in personalized items — she can put a name, a logo or even an email address on napkins, towels or T-shirts.
她的商店专门出售个性化物件。她可以把一个名字、一个标识甚至一个电子邮箱地址印在餐巾、毛巾或T恤上。
But Smith, 68, started selling cups, and keeping count, in 2004, the year the Democrats nominated John Kerry to run against President George W. Bush. The price of each cup was $3, as it is now.
但现年68岁的史密斯是从2004年开始卖杯子，并坚持计数的。那一年，民主党提名的约翰·克里(John Kerry)对阵总统乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)。当时每个杯子3美元，和现在一样。
Kerry was significantly ahead all that summer. “And then George W., man, he came out of nowhere in late September or October and started selling a lot of cups,” she said, “and ended up winning the cup count.” And the election for a second term.
整个夏天克里都明显领先。“然后到了9月底或10月，天哪，乔治·W不知道是从哪里冒出来，开始卖出好多杯子，”她说，“并最后在售出杯子总数上获胜。”布什最终成功连任。
Smith began selling cups for the 2008 presidential election in 2007, when Rudolph Giuliani, the former New York mayor, entered the race for the Republican nomination. She opened the first box of Giuliani cups, which she had designed, only to find that she had misspelled his name. He dropped out of the race in January 2008, and before long, she was selling cups for the Republican nominee, Sen. John McCain.
当纽约前市长鲁迪·朱利亚尼(Rudy Giuliani)在2007年加入共和党提名的争夺时，史密斯便开始卖预测2008年选举结果的杯子。她打开自己设计的第一箱代表朱利亚尼的杯子，结果却发现把他的名字拼错了。2008年1月，朱利亚尼退出竞选。不久后，史密斯便卖起了代表共和党提名人选、参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)的杯子。
In the Democratic primaries, the contest that year was between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. One day Chelsea Clinton walked in. “She said, ‘I’d like to buy some cups,'” Smith said, “and I said, ‘Which ones?'”
在那一年的民主党初选中，对决的双方是希拉里·克林顿和贝拉克·奥巴马。一天，切尔西·克林顿(Chelsea Clinton)走进店里。“她说，‘我想买一些杯子，’”史密斯说。“我说，‘哪一种？’”
Then Clinton finished third in the Iowa caucuses and her campaign never recovered. Smith ordered cups labeled with Obama’s name. Obama won the cup count against McCain that year, as he did in 2012 against the Republican nominee Mitt Romney.
后来，克林顿在艾奥瓦州的预选会中排名第三，其竞选势头再未恢复。于是，史密斯订购了印有奥巴马名字的杯子。在那一年售出的杯子数量上，奥巴马打败了麦凯恩，就像他在2012年打败共和党提名人米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)一样。
Smith started preparing for the 2016 election a year ago, with cocktail napkins that said, “No Trump.” As the Republican field of candidates ballooned, she had another batch of napkins printed that looked like ballots. But she limited herself to three kinds of cups — for Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush, and for Clinton.
史密斯一年前就开始为2016年的选举做准备了。最早是印着“反对特朗普”(No Trump)字样的餐巾。随着共和党候选人剧增，她又印制了另一批看上去像选票的餐巾。不过她把杯子限制在了三种，分表代表马可·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)、杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)和克林顿。
“The Hillary cups sold out,” she said. “I ordered 100, that’s the minimum. She managed to sell 100 cups, not briskly, but she sold them. Rubio’s cups, one day I looked up and they were all gone. Maybe they were stolen. You know, you’re not always paying attention. And I couldn’t sell Jeb Bush cups.” In February, after he dropped out of the race, she gave them away.
“希拉里的杯子卖完了，”她说。“我订了100个，这是起订量。她设法卖了100个杯子，虽然卖得不快，但还是卖出去了。至于卢比奥的杯子，有一天我一抬头，发现都不见了。也许是被偷了。你知道的，我不会一直都盯着。杰布·布什的杯子没卖出去。”今年2月，杰布·布什退出竞选后，她把那些杯子都送人了。
She waited to order Trump cups. “I kept thinking the dude’s going to crater,” she said. He did not, and in April, she ordered the first 100. That was when she started the 2016 count. It does not include the Clinton cups sold during the primaries.
她在订购代表特朗普的杯子时犹豫不决。“我一直以为这家伙会大败输亏，”她说。但他没有。今年4月，史密斯订购了第一批100个。那时，她刚开始进行2016年的统计。统计数字不包括初选期间卖出的代表克林顿的杯子。
The Trump cups led the count from April to mid-July, she said. Clinton caught up on July 17.
她说，从4月到7月中旬，卖出的代表特朗普的杯子数量一直领先。7月17日，克林顿赶上了特朗普。
“Since then, she has, in a very Hillary-like way, doggedly, slowly, cup by cup, pulled ahead,” Smith said. “She didn’t meteorically sell tons and tons of cups. It’s been a gradual widening.”
“从那时候开始，她就以一种非常像希拉里的方式，坚定地，慢慢地，一个杯子一个杯子地拉开距离，”史密斯说。“代表她的杯子不是一下子就卖了好多。差距是逐渐拉大的。”