A documentary released last year revealed fresh insights about the life of the 20th century’s most celebrated female art collector.
去年有一部纪录片，对20世纪最受尊崇的女艺术藏家的生平发表了新见解。
“Peggy Guggenheim: Art Addict,” directed by Lisa Immordino Vreeland and first shown at the Tribeca Film Festival in April, was shown in December to coincide with the Art Basel fair in Miami Beach. Four days of screenings there, and the film’s subsequent general release, have prompted a reassessment not only of the extraordinary Guggenheim, who died in 1979 at 81, but also of how much the art world has changed since her heyday.
《佩姬·古根汉：痴迷艺术》(Peggy Guggenheim: Art Addict)由丽莎·伊莫迪诺·弗里兰德(Lisa Immordino Vreeland)执导，4月首次在翠贝卡电影节(Tribeca Film Festival)上上映，12月还在迈阿密海滩的巴塞尔艺术节放映。古根汉于1979年逝世，享年81岁，该片在迈阿密巴塞尔艺术节上映四天，随后又进行公映，它不仅令人们开始重新评估她非凡的生平，也开始思考，自从她的黄金时代过后，艺术世界究竟发生了多少变化。
Ms. Vreeland rediscovered long-lost audio tapes of interviews that Guggenheim conducted in the 1970s with her official biographer, Jacqueline Bogard Weld. The tapes, notable for their subject’s clipped, sardonic replies, form the revelatory backbone of the movie.
弗里兰德重新发掘了遗失已久的70年代古根汉采访录像带，采访者是她的指定传记作者杰奎琳·波加德·韦尔德(Jacqueline Bogard Weld)。在这些录像带中，古根汉的回答格外简短清晰，充满冷嘲热讽，它们构成了本片启发性意义的基础。
We learn that Guggenheim came from the relatively “poor” side of her family, even though she inherited $450,000 when she was 21, enabling her to live an independent life in Europe. She spent four days in bed in Paris with Samuel Beckett. Constantin Brancusi was also among her many lovers and she liked to think that their trysts brought down the price of his sculpture “Bird in Space.” Marcel Duchamp was her art adviser.
我们知道，尽管古根汉21岁就继承了45万美元，可以在欧洲独自生活，但她其实来自家族中相对较为“贫穷”的一方。在巴黎，她与萨缪尔·贝克特(Samuel Beckett)上了四天的床。康斯坦丁·布朗库西(Constantin Brancusi)也是她的众多情人之一，她觉得两人的关系令他的雕塑《太空鸟》(Bird in Space)贬值了。马塞尔·杜尚(Marcel Duchamp)则是她的艺术顾问。
The superlative collection of avant-garde art that she managed to smuggle out of France during the German occupation cost her a total of just $40,000. She regarded herself as the “midwife” of Abstract Expressionism, yet it was a friend, the painter Piet Mondrian, who in the 1940s first recognized the talent of Jackson Pollock.
在德军占领期间，她从法国偷运出一批最经典的先锋艺术作品，一共只花了她4万美元。她视自己为抽象表现主义的“接生婆”，不过，20世纪40年代，是她的一个朋友、画家彼埃·蒙德里安(Piet Mondrian)率先发现了杰克逊·波洛克(Jackson Pollock)的才华。
Her pioneering New York gallery, Art of This Century, sold Pollocks for $200 to $600 each. Her own collection of 326 works of modernist and tribal art (including Pollock’s recently restored 1947 drip painting “Alchemy”), housed in a half-built palazzo on the Grand Canal in Venice, is worth “billions and billions,” said Larry Gagosian, one of the 21st-century gallery owners interviewed in the movie.
她在纽约开创了“本世纪的艺术”(Art of This Century)画廊，以每幅200到600美元的价格出售波洛克的画作。她收藏了326件现代主义作品与部落艺术，其中包括最近修复的波洛克1947年的滴画《炼金术》(Alchemy)，它们都放在威尼斯大运河畔一栋部分落成的豪宅里。在纪录片中接受采访的21世纪画廊主人拉里·高古轩(Larry Gagosian)说，这些作品价值“好几十亿”。
Today’s art world is, of course, far larger than it was in Guggenheim’s day. Globalization, financial deregulation and the lure of art as a tax-efficient alternative investment have encouraged people to pour money into the market for postwar and contemporary art. Galleries, fairs, auctions — and artists — have proliferated across the world, and prices have soared.
当然，如今的艺术界比古根汉的时代要大得多。全球化、金融撤销管制风潮、艺术成为一种可避税的替代投资手段，以上种种都鼓励人们大笔投资战后以及当代艺术市场。画廊、艺术节、拍卖会还有艺术家的数量在世界各地激增，艺术品价格也水涨船高。
In 2006, a 1948 Pollock was reportedly sold by the entertainment magnate David Geffen for $140 million. If another important Pollock were to come on the market in 2016, it would surely sell for more than $200 million.
2006年，报道称一幅1948年的波拉克作品以1.4亿美元的价格被娱乐业大亨大卫·格芬(David Geffen)购买。如果2016年另一幅波洛克的重要作品进入市场，价格肯定会超过2亿美元。
“Ours is a money-orientated society,” said Christian Ogier, a Paris art dealer. “We have big-bucks collectors. The value of an artist is measured by the price he or she is able to elicit.”
“艺术界是一个以金钱为导向的群体，”巴黎艺术交易商克里斯蒂安·奥吉尔(Christian Ogier)说。“我们有不少富有的收藏家。艺术家的价值都是以他们能诱发多高的出价来衡量的。”
Mr. Ogier added that it is a very different world from the 20th-century avant-garde. “There were far fewer collectors then,” he said, “and they were collecting for art’s sake.”
奥吉尔还说，现在和20世纪的先锋艺术世界完全不一样了。“当时的收藏家要比现在少得多，”他说，“他们真的是为了艺术而收藏。”
In an age of growing income inequality, the excesses of today’s art market are, for some, beginning to grate. In October, Chris Dercon, the director of Tate Modern in London, wrote in The Art Newspaper that there was a conflict between “those who treat art as a private good — from which to profit” and those who participate in art as a “collective process and common endeavor, based on inclusion and access.”
在这个收入日益不平等的时代，有些人觉得当今艺术品市场的过度膨胀令人不快。10月，伦敦泰特现代艺术馆的馆长克里斯·德康(Chris Dercon)为《艺术报》(The Newspaper)撰文，指出“那些把艺术当做私人利益并从获取利润”的人与那些把艺术视为“一种建立在内容与途径之上的集体性过程与共同努力”的人之间，存在着冲突。
With a nod to Mr. Dercon, and perhaps to the acclaim that an American artist like Theaster Gates has been attracting for his engagement with a wider public, the Tate’s 2015 Turner Prize was awarded on Dec. 7 not to an artist represented by a commercial gallery, but to Assemble, a collective of young architects and designers who specialize in community projects.
为了与德康的说法呼应，或许也是为了赞扬西斯特·盖茨(Theaster Gates)这样关注更广泛的公众的美国艺术家，12月7日，泰特现代艺术馆颁发的2015年透纳奖(Turner Prize)并未授予代表商业画廊的艺术家，而是给了“Assemble”，这是一个由年轻建筑师与设计师组成的小组，专门设计社区项目。
And one of the surprise British best sellers of 2015 was “We Go to the Gallery,” written, illustrated and self-published by Miriam Elia, a London artist.
2015年，英国最令人吃惊的一本畅销书叫《我们去画廊》(We Go to the Gallery)，文字、插图与出版都由伦敦艺术家米利安姆·埃利亚(Miriam Elia)一手包办。
This faux children’s reading book, inspired by Ladybird’s “Peter and Jane” books of the 1960s, offers a mordant take on the conceptualism and commercialism of the contemporary art world.
这是一本伪童书，灵感来自20世纪60年代Ladybird的《彼得与简》(Peter and Jane)系列图书，它尖酸刻薄地描述了当代艺术世界中的概念主义与商业化。
“I want to play with the balloon,” says a young boy named John, pointing to a red “Balloon Dog” sculpture by Jeff Koons. He is clearly unaware that an orange version of this 1994-2000 work sold at auction in 2013 for $58.4 million.
“我想玩气球，”名叫约翰的小男孩指着杰夫·昆斯( Jeff Koons)的红色《气球狗》(Balloon Dog)说。他显然不知道，一个橙色的、创作于1994-2000年的气球狗作品在2013年拍出了5840万美元。
“Only venture capitalists can play with this balloon,” John’s mother tells him.
“只有投机资本家才能玩这个气球，”约翰的妈妈告诉他。
Ms. Elia’s revised version of her book has sold 51,175 copies in Britain, with a price of 8.99 pounds, about $10.30, according to data provided by Nielsen BookScan. The first version of the book had to be withdrawn after a legal dispute with Penguin, the publisher of the original “Peter and Jane” series.
根据Nielsen BookSca提供的数据，埃利亚女士这本书的修订本在英国卖出了51175万册，每本售价8.99镑，约合10.3美元。该书的初版因为与《彼得与简》系列的出版商企鹅出版社发生纠纷而收回。
“Self-publishing has given me autonomy,” said Ms. Elia, 33. “I can sell art to a very wide audience. I wanted the book to be as cheap as possible so it would be in lots of Christmas stockings. It’s more democratic than an art dealer saying I value this at £1 million.”
“自出版(self-publishing)给了我自治权，”33岁的埃利亚女士说。“我可以向更广泛的受众出售艺术。我希望这本书尽可能的便宜，可以被当成圣诞礼物。这比艺术交易商说‘这个我出一百万英镑’要民主得多。”
Another piece that subverts the “collectability” of contemporary art is Peter Kennard and Neville Brody’s high-resolution photomontage print, “Peace on Earth,” which can be downloaded free from the Royal College of Art’s website. It shows an image of the Virgin Mary from an Italian baroque painting, but with her face replaced by the planet Earth beneath a peace-sign halo.
另一件颠覆当代艺术的“可收藏性”的作品是彼得·肯纳德(Peter Kennard)与奈维尔·布洛迪(Neville Brody)的高分辨率照片拼贴印刷品《大地上的和平》(Peace on Earth)，它可以从皇家艺术学院的网站免费下载。画面上是一幅意大利巴洛克油画上圣母玛利亚的形象，但她的面孔被地球的图案取代，头顶上是和平符号形状的光环。
“The work just goes out there, and people can do what they want with it,” said Mr. Kennard, 66, who teaches at the Royal College, and whose political photomontages are the subject of an exhibition at the Imperial War Museum in London.
“这幅作品就放在那儿，人们想拿它怎么样就拿它怎么样，”现年66岁，在皇家艺术学院教书的肯纳德说，他的政治拼贴照片曾经在伦敦帝国战争博物馆(Imperial War Museum)展出。
“There’s a feeling that the art scene in terms of auctions is something so separate now,” he added. “All ordinary people see of contemporary art is reports of a Picasso making $160 million. It creates a sense that art is just money.”
“人们觉得，以拍卖来说，艺术圈与普罗大众距离遥远，”他说。“关于当代艺术，所有普通人能看到的，就是毕加索拍出了1.6亿美元的报道。这造成这样一种感觉：艺术无非就是钱。”
To be sure, Peggy Guggenheim herself belonged to a financial elite, and she spent most of her life buying and selling at what was then the very top of the market.
当然，佩姬·古根汉也属于少数富人精英，她毕生大部分时间都在买卖艺术市场上的顶尖作品。
But, as Arne Glimcher, founder of the Pace Gallery, points out in the documentary, “it wasn’t about money, it was about art.” Which in turn, raises a question about which of her 21st-century successors would make as entertaining a subject for a film? And which could create a museum that attracts 400,000 people a year, as Guggenheim’s center in Venice does.
但是正如佩斯画廊(Pace Gallery)的创始人艾恩·格里姆彻(Arne Glimcher)在纪录片中指出，“这不仅仅是关于钱，而是关于艺术。”因此就提出了这样一个问题，古根汉在21世纪的后继者们之中，究竟谁能成为这样一部影片的主人公？哪个机构能像她在威尼斯的中心那样，创立一个每年吸引40万名观众的艺术馆。
Visitors are drawn to that museum not just by masterpieces like Magritte’s 1953-54 “Empire of Light,” but also by the largeness of Guggenheim’s life (her ashes are interred in the garden, next to a memorial plaque for 14 of her dogs).
那座艺术馆的参观者们不仅是被玛格丽特(Magritte)1953-54年的《帝国之光》(Empire of Light)吸引而来，也是仰慕古根汉宏大的人生（她的骨灰撒在花园里，在她为自己的14只狗树立的纪念碑旁边）。
Today’s investment-savvy megacollectors tend to keep a lower profile. Major purchases are almost invariably anonymous and wrapped in confidentiality clauses, and even when a private collector opens a museum, interventions by advisers and curators can blur a sense of that individual’s personal taste.
如今，富于投资头脑的超级收藏家门喜欢低调。大型收购一般都是匿名进行，并且充满保密条款，就算私人收藏家自己开了艺术馆，受聘而来的顾问和策展人也会淡化处理收藏家的个人品味。
Peggy Guggenheim was in many ways a sad figure. Her father died on the Titanic when it sank in 1912. Both her marriages failed, and her daughter committed suicide. But she loved and bought great art, and she was passionately human.
佩姬·古根汉在很多方面都是一个悲哀的人物。她的父亲在1912年泰坦尼克号沉船事故中丧生。她的两次婚姻都以失败告终，女儿自杀身亡。但她热爱艺术，买下大量艺术品，她是个有激情的人。
Ultimately, for all the millions that billionaires now spend on art, it is the latter that makes her such a hard act to follow.
最终，尽管有那么多亿万富翁现在把大把的钞票投资在艺术上，但正是对艺术的热爱，使其令人望尘莫及。