Microsoft’s plan, announced last week, to replace Steven A. Ballmer as its chief executive does not exactly follow — at least to people outside the company — the way they draft these things in business school.
上周，微软(Microsoft)宣布计划安排其首席执行官史蒂文·A·鲍尔默(Steven A. Ballmer)的继任。至少在微软之外的人看来，这个计划并没有严格遵循商学院里倡导的做法。
But Mr. Ballmer and Microsoft’s board have been considering the possibility of his retirement for some time. Still, because of Mr. Ballmer’s larger-than-life personality, the board’s reluctance to push back and the company’s recent product and financial problems, finding a new chief executive for Microsoft was never going to resemble a cut-and-dry, business-school case study, according to people with knowledge of the company.
实际上，鲍尔默和微软董事会考虑他退休的事情已经有一段时间了。尽管如此，由于鲍尔默张扬的个性，董事会对他的放任，以及该公司最近出现的产品和财务问题，为微软找到一位新的首席执行官绝不会像商学院的案例研究那么简单明了，了解微软内情的人说。
“No one is an obvious candidate,” said Michael A. Cusumano, a professor of business and engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studies strategy in the computer software industry. “All the really interesting people who were in the company over the last dozen years who might have been have left. I also find it hard to imagine they could bring an outsider in. Microsoft is known for having quite a lot of powerful groups within the company and they make life very difficult for anyone who tries to oversee them.”
“没有一位显而易见的候选人，”麻省理工学院研究计算机软件行业战略的商业和工程学教授迈克​​尔·A·库苏马诺(Michael A. Cusumano)说。“过去十多年在微软工作过的，真正吸引业界注意的人可能都已经离开。而且我觉得很难想象微软会从外面找人。很多人都知道，微软内部派系林立，令那些试图监督他们的人非常头疼。”
Succession planning is a delicate issue for many companies, particularly one like Microsoft, where Mr. Ballmer has been a senior employee since 1980 and chief executive since 2000, and his longtime friend, Bill Gates, Microsoft’s co-founder, remains chairman.
对于很多公司，尤其是像微软这样的公司来说，继任计划是一件很微妙的事。自1980年以来，鲍尔默就是微软的高级雇员，2000年之后，他一直担任该公司首席执行官。微软联合创始人比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)是鲍尔默的老朋友，现在仍然是该公司的董事长。
“Particularly for a person like Ballmer, who really is one of the founders, leaving is almost like death, so it’s extremely difficult to have an orderly process,” said Joseph L. Bower, a professor at the Harvard Business School. “It requires a very grown-up relationship between the chief executive and his board.”
“鲍尔默其实是微软的创始人之一，尤其对于他这样的一个人来说，离开就如同死亡，所以，让这个过程有序地进行是非常困难的，”哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)教授约瑟夫·L·鲍尔(Joseph L. Bower)说。“这需要首席执行官和董事会之间有一种非常成熟的关系。”
Industry insiders almost immediately began to place bets on which executives inside and outside Microsoft — and even outside the technology industry — could be tapped. The decision will go a long way to determining whether Microsoft will successfully transition to tech’s future of mobile computing and computing in a virtual cloud of data-storage devices.
业界人士几乎马上就开始进行投注：微软公司内外，甚至其他行业中，哪些高管有望被选中。对于微软能否面向移动计算和数据存储设备的虚拟云计算，成功过渡到科技的未来，这个决定将会产生重大而深远的影响。
But at the moment, at least, the betting cards are virtually empty.
但至少就目前来说，投注卡其实还是空的。
Even though Mr. Ballmer had indicated he was going to retire when the youngest of his children went to college, which was in about two more years, “I think people thought Ballmer would maybe die with his boots on in that role,” Mr. Cusumano added.
鲍尔默曾经说过，大约两年之后，当他最年幼的孩子上大学时，他就会退休，但库苏马诺说：“我认为，大家觉得鲍尔默也许会一直坐在那个位置上，至死方休。”
Developing a succession plan is one of a board’s chief responsibilities, but only half of companies actively groom executives, according to a 2010 study by Stanford University’s Rock Center for Corporate Governance and Heidrick & Struggles, the executive search firm that is leading Microsoft’s search. Boards spend only an average two hours a year on succession planning, the study found.
斯坦福大学(Stanford University)洛克公司治理中心(Rock Center for Corporate Governance)和管理者猎头公司海德思哲(Heidrick & Struggles)2010进行的一项研究显示，尽管制定继任计划是董事会最主要的责任之一，但只有一半的公司会主动培养管理者。该研究还发现，董事会花在继任计划上的时间平均为每年两个小时。海德思哲目前正在牵头为微软寻找继任者。
Mr. Ballmer and the board have discussed the attributes they want in the next chief executive and have been appraising internal and external executives who might be candidates. Over the last 18 to 24 months, Mr. Ballmer has personally met with several outside executives, including people outside the tech industry with experience transforming very large companies, according to the person knowledgeable about the board’s work.
鲍尔默和董事会讨论了他们希望下一任首席执行官具备的品质，并已经开始评估公司内外可能的候选人。了解微软董事会内情的人说，在过去18至24个月中，鲍尔默亲自跟一些公司外的高管见了面，其中包括来自科技行业之外的，在转变超大型公司方面具备经验的人。
“This is not a company which is in a panic because there’s not a succession plan, looking for a Lou Gerstner type to come parachuting in when I.B.M. was at death’s door,” said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, president of the Chief Executive Leadership Institute at the Yale School of Management. “He’s had a great tour of duty and financial performance.”
“微软并没有因为继任计划的缺位而恐慌，也不愿像IBM处于危亡之际那样，寻找郭士纳(Lou Gerstner)那样的人空降到公司，”耶鲁管理学院(Yale School of Management)高级管理者领导力研究所(Chief Executive Leadership Institute)主席杰夫·索南费尔德(Jeff Sonnenfeld)说。“郭士纳在IBM的工作很出色，财务成果很丰硕。”
Even so, Microsoft analysts said one weakness of Mr. Ballmer’s hard-charging personality and leadership style had been to drive away deputies who might one day succeed him.
即便如此，微软的分析师表示，鲍尔默张扬的个性和领导风格有一个缺陷，就是赶走了有望接替他的副手们。
“Ballmer is larger than life, and I think it’s been difficult for other people to really rise up and have a noticeable public role,” Mr. Cusumano said.
“鲍尔默十分张扬，我觉得这使得其他人很难崭露头角，很难拥有值得注意的公共角色，”库苏玛诺说。
For instance, Steven Sinofsky, who ran the Windows division, left last year after growing friction with Mr. Ballmer and others, and this week announced that he had joined the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. People who know him said his contentious departure from Microsoft made it very unlikely he would return.
例如，曾掌管Windows业务的史蒂文·辛诺夫斯基(Steven Sinofsky)与鲍尔默和其他人之间的矛盾不断激化，去年离开了公司。辛诺夫斯基本周宣布，他已加入风险投资公司安德森·霍洛维茨(Andreessen Horowitz)。了解他的人说，他离开微软时引起诸多争议，因此不太可能重回微软。
Other former Microsoft executives could return, analysts said, including Paul Maritz, chief executive of VMware until last year; Stephen Elop, chief of Nokia; Kevin Johnson, chief of Juniper Networks, who has announced plans to step down; Jeff Raikes, chief executive of the Gates Foundation; and Chris Liddell, former chief financial officer of Microsoft and G.M.
分析师表示，其他可能返回微软的前高管有：去年之前在VMware任首席执行官的保罗·马瑞兹(Paul Maritz)；诺基亚首席执行官史蒂芬·埃洛普(Stephen Elop)；瞻博网络公司(Juniper Networks)负责人凯文·约翰逊(Kevin Johnson)，他已宣布会离职；盖茨基金会(Gates Foundation)首席执行官杰夫·雷克斯(Jeff Raikes)；微软和通用汽车(GM)的前首席财务官克里斯·利德尔(Chris Liddell)。
Current Microsoft executives who could be contenders include Tony Bates, former director of Skype and now executive vice president of business development and strategy, and Satya Nadella, executive vice president of cloud and enterprise.
目前在微软担任高管，有希望竞争此职的人有：前Skype首席执行官、现业务发展及战略执行副总裁托尼·贝茨 (Tony Bates)，云和企业服务执行副总裁萨蒂亚·纳德拉(Satya Nadella)。
Speculation by analysts and executives about external candidates included Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook; Reed Hastings, chief executive of Netflix and a former director at Microsoft; Scott Forstall, who ran iOS at Apple until last year and John Legere, chief executive of T-Mobile.
据分析师和高管们猜测，来自公司以外的候选人有：Facebook首席运营官谢丽尔·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)；Netflix首席执行官、微软前董事里德·哈斯廷斯(Reed Hastings)；去年之前负责苹果iOS业务的斯科特·福斯戴尔(Scott Forstall)；以及T-Mobile公司首席执行官约翰·莱杰尔 (John Legere)。
The new chief executive, analysts said, must be someone who lives and breathes new consumer technologies like mobile, can speak technical language to Microsoft’s engineers and has a track record transforming a large company.
分析师表示，微软的新首席执行官必须非常谙熟新型消费技术，比如移动技术，可以用技术语言跟微软的工程师们沟通，而且具备转变一家大公司的成功经验。
“Steve likely recognizes it’s really time to bring someone in whose heart and soul is really devoted to the different world we have around us, not the world of PCs and laptops, which is Microsoft’s world,” Mr. Cusumano said.
“史蒂夫可能也认识到，现在确实是时候找到这样一个人了：他的心和灵魂真正投入到了我们周围那个不同的世界中，而不是PC和笔记本电脑的世界。后者只是微软的世界，”库苏玛诺说。