Americans have long been told that routinely eating breakfast is a simple habit that helps prevent weight gain.
一直以来，美国人被告知，有规律地吃早饭可以帮助防止体重增长。
Skipping breakfast, the thinking goes, increases hunger throughout the day, making people overeat and seek out snacks to compensate for missing that first – and some would say most important – meal of the day.
这种说法称，不吃早饭会导致一整天都感觉饥肠辘辘，因为没吃一天中这第一顿——一些人认为这也是最重要的一顿——人们会为此吃更多东西，或者到处搜刮零食来补偿自己。
“Eating a healthy breakfast is a good way to start the day,” according to the Web site of the United States surgeon general, “and may be important in achieving and maintaining a healthy weight.”
“吃健康的早餐，可以很好地让你投入新的一天，”美国卫生局(United States surgeon general)的官网上这样写道：“而且在实现和维持健康体重方面也许至关重要。”
But new research shows that despite the conventional weight-loss wisdom, the idea that eating breakfast helps you lose weight stems largely from misconstrued studies.
但是新研究显示，虽然传统上有各种关于减重的传说，但吃早饭有助于减肥的说法主要出自被误读了的研究。
Only a handful of rigorous, carefully controlled trials have tested the claim, the new report, published in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, found. And generally they conclude that missing breakfast has either little or no effect on weight gain, or that people who eat breakfast end up consuming more daily calories than those who skip it.
这项发表在《美国临床营养学学刊》(The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition)的新研究发表，只有少数严格谨慎的对照试验验证了该说法，而且这些试验通常做出的结论，要么是不吃早饭对体重增长没有或仅有微乎其微的影响，要么是吃早饭的人相比不吃早饭的人，每天消耗更多热量。
But those trials have been largely overlooked, and their findings drowned out by dozens of large observational studies that have found associations between breakfast habits and obesity but no direct cause and effect, said Dr. David B. Allison, director of the Nutrition Obesity Research Center at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. Dr. Allison and his colleagues scoured the medical literature and found that the only long-term, carefully controlled trial that randomly assigned people to routinely eat or go without breakfast and then measured the effect on their body weight was published in 1992.
阿拉巴马大学伯明翰分校(University of Alabama at Birmingham)营养肥胖研究中心主任大卫·B·艾利森(David B. Allison)博士说，这些试验大部分都被人忽视了，而且它们的研究发现被淹没在大量大型观察性研究中，这些研究发现了早餐进食习惯与肥胖之间存在关联，但并没有发现直接的因果关系。艾利森博士和他的同事们遍查医学文献，发现仅有的一篇长期、严格的对照试验发表于1992年，这项试验随机安排人们或规律进食早餐，或不吃早餐，然后测量饮食习惯对其体重的影响。
That seminal study, carried out over 12 weeks at Vanderbilt University, had mixed results. Moderately obese adults who were habitual breakfast skippers lost an average of roughly 17 pounds when they were put on a program that included eating breakfast every day. And regular breakfast eaters who were instructed to avoid eating breakfast daily lost an average of nearly 20 pounds.
这项重大研究在范德堡大学(Vanderbilt University)进行，跨度超过12周，研究出现了形形色色的结果。那些习惯不吃早饭的轻度肥胖成年人在加入了每天吃早餐的小组后，平均减去了17磅（合7.7公斤）体重。而此前吃早饭的人在被分入了不吃早饭的小组后，则平均减去了近20磅（合9.1公斤）体重。
Both programs included an identical amount of calories, and each caused people to lose more weight than a program in which a person’s typical breakfast habits did not change.
这两个小组安排进食的热量是完全相同的，而参试者因此减去的体重都超过了早餐习惯未发生任何改变的对照组成员减重数量。
The study was fairly small and limited, involving only 52 overweight adult women, but it suggested that as far as breakfast is concerned, the most important factor in weight loss may be how drastically you change your routine. “Those who had to make the most substantial changes in eating habits to comply with the program achieved better results,” the authors wrote in their paper.
这项研究规模较小，也有局限性，参试者仅为52名超重的成年女性，但它却证明，就早餐而言，减重最重要的因素也许在于你如何剧烈地改变自己的习惯。“那些为了配合研究，最大程度上改变了自己进餐习惯的人，取得的效果更佳，”研究者在论文中写道。
Dr. Allison said that the findings “showed no effect over all of eating versus skipping breakfast, that people do equally well on either one.”
艾利森博士说，这些发现显示，“相对于整体饮食，仅仅不吃早餐并无特别效果，从这两者之一入手，人们都可以取得同样好的成效。”
“You would think at this point that you would either abandon the idea or do some more randomized controlled trials,” he added. “But instead the association studies started.”
“在此时，你会觉得要么抛弃这种设想，要么做更多的随机双盲试验，”他进一步说，“可是正相反，那些关联分析开始红极一时。”
Through the years, the equivocal findings were wildly misinterpreted. Dr. Allison and his colleagues found about 50 subsequent articles on breakfast and body weight in the medical literature that cited the Vanderbilit research. Of those papers, 62 percent cited the findings inaccurately, and they were almost exclusively biased in favor of the idea that eating breakfast protects against weight gain.
多年来，上述模棱两可的结论受到了大肆误读。艾利森和他的同事们在医学文献中找到了50篇后续的引用了范德堡研究的早餐与体重关联研究。在这些论文中，有62%不准确地引用了研究发现，而且几乎毫无二致，全都把重点放在了支持吃早餐有利防止增重这个角度。
Another study that became the basis of widespread misinformation was published in 2002. In that study, researchers looked at data from the National Weight Control Registry, which tracks thousands of people who have lost weight and kept it off for at least a year.
另一项成为广泛传播的错误消息源的研究，发表于2002年。在这项研究中，研究人员审视了来自美国国家体重控制登记处(National Weight Control Registry)的数据，数据追踪的是数千名减重成功，并将胜利果实保持了至少一年的人群。
Data from the registry showed that after their weight loss, about 80 percent of people reported regularly eating breakfast. “There was no difference in reported energy intake between breakfast eaters and non-eaters,” the registry showed, “but breakfast eaters reported slightly more physical activity than non-breakfast eaters.”
来自登记处的数据显示，在减重成功后，在大约80%的人自称开始规律地吃早餐。“在吃早饭和不吃早饭的人中间，能量摄取量并没有差异，”数据显示，“但吃早饭的人比起不吃早饭的，在身体活动方面要略微频繁些。”
The research showed only that eating breakfast was a common behavior among people who were actively trying to avoid regaining weight, just as diet soda might be a common drink of choice among dieters but not necessarily the cause of their weight loss.
研究结果无非是证明，在积极试图避免体重反弹的人群中，吃早餐是个普遍的行为，这就跟在节食者中无糖可乐可能是普遍的饮料选项一样，但这未必是他们体重降低的原因。
But of 72 subsequent research articles on breakfast and weight loss that cited the registry study, about half overstated its findings, Dr. Allison found, and roughly a quarter suggested that it showed a causal relationship between breakfast habits and obesity.
可是，在后续72篇引用了上述登记处数据的早餐和减重关联研究中，艾利森博士发现有约半数夸大了试验结果，有约四分之一认为它证明了早餐习惯与肥胖存在因果关系。
In the real world, when people form an opinion, they tend to seek out evidence that supports it and discard anything that contradicts it, a phenomenon academics refer to as confirmation bias.
在现实生活中，一旦人们形成了某个想法，往往就会去寻找支持自己论点的证据，并且避而不谈任何反驳意见，学术界称这种现象为确认偏误(confirmation bias)。
“Scientists are humans, and they’re susceptible to confirmation bias too,” Dr. Allison said.
“科学家也是人，因此同样难免受到确认偏误的影响，”艾利森博士说。
In the meantime, a small number of randomized trials has continued to cast doubt on the protective effect of breakfast. At Cornell University, for example, scientists have showed in experiments that in some cases, but not all, depriving people of breakfast can lead them to eat more calories at lunch. But those extra calories do not make up for the calories they missed at breakfast, so at the end of the day, they still end up eating fewer calories over all.
在此期间，一小批随机试验仍在继续质疑早餐对防止增重的作用。比方说，在康奈尔大学(Cornell University)，科学家们证明在对某些情况下进行的试验中，让人们不吃早餐会令他们午餐时摄入更多卡路里。但这些额外摄取的卡路里并不能弥补不吃早餐损失的卡路里数量，因此一天下来，他们整体摄入的热量仍然较少。
The Cornell researchers have argued that for some adults, skipping breakfast may actually be a good way to reduce weight – not gain it.
康奈尔的研究者认为，对某些成年人来说，不吃早餐事实上是种减重——而非增重的好办法。
Dr. Allison said that the true relationship between eating breakfast and body weight, if there is one, was still an open question. But observational studies that tout an association between the two are churned out “just about every week,” despite doing nothing to actually test or prove the claim.
艾利森博士说，吃早餐与体重之间如果确实有关，那么这种关系也仍然是未知数。但吹捧二者关系的观察性研究“真的是每周”都被大量炮制出来，可这些研究却并未进行真正的试验，也并不能证实二者关系。
“At some point, this becomes absurd,” he said. “We’re doing studies that have little or no value. We’re wasting time, intellect and resources, and we’re convincing people of things without actually generating evidence.”
“在某种情况下，这实在是太滑稽了，”他说，“我们正在做几乎毫无价值的研究。我们在浪费时间、学识和资源，而且我们在说服人们相信事实上毫无证据的道理。”
As for why the subject has created something of an echo chamber of observational research, Dr. Allison said that unlike randomized controlled trials, which are expensive and difficult to carry out, sifting through large sets of observational data to find tantalizing associations is fairly low cost and easy to do.
那么，为什么这个话题创造了一个观察性研究的回音室（echo chamber，指信息在一个封闭的小圈子里得到加强——译注）呢？艾利森博士说，与昂贵且难以执行的随机双盲试验不同，从大量观察性数据中寻找诱人的关联，这样做代价低廉且简便易行。
“Just like bakers bake bread, scientists write papers,” he said, “and we get rewarded for writing and publishing papers.”
“就跟西点师烘焙面包一样，科学家要写论文，”他说，“而且写了论文、发表了论文，是有得赚的。”