THE image of a dead Syrian boy washed up on a Turkish beach has inspired a wave of Western soul-searching, with much talk about how “the world” failed 3-year-old Aylan Kurdi, who drowned along with his mother and brother while trying to escape their country’s civil war.
被冲上土耳其海滩的一个叙利亚男孩的尸体的照片，在西方激发了一轮有关“世界”如何有负于3岁的艾兰·库尔迪(Aylan Kurdi)的自我反省，艾兰连同他的母亲和哥哥在试图逃离叙利亚内战的途中被淹死。
This reaction is understandable, but its policy implications are unclear. And since policy questions are where outrage ultimately cashes out, it makes sense to try to think through what it really means to say that we – America, the West, the world — failed the Kurdi family, and helped consign them to their fate.
这种反应可以理解，但其可能的政策影响尚不明确。由于政策问题是愤怒的最终兑现形式，试想一下究竟在什么意义上说，我们--美国、西方，乃至世界--有负于库尔迪一家、没能帮助他们摆脱他们的命运，是有意义的。
One thing it might mean is that the world’s powers, the United States chief among them, had a responsibility to prevent the Syrian war from developing, and a responsibility to protect its victims once it did.
其可能意味的一件事是，以美国为首的世界大国有责任防止叙利亚内战的爆发，一旦战争爆发，有责任保护战争的受害者。
To a point, this seems plausible. The U.S. has very consciously accepted stewardship of global stability, and in Syria the Pax Americana has developed an ugly crack. And since our various Syrian forays — clandestine aid to rebels, airstrikes threatened and then held back, explicit aid to rebels — look like failures at the moment, we’re partially implicated in the continuing catastrophe.
这在一定程度上似乎是合理的。美国已经很自觉地承担起维持全球稳定的工作，然而，在叙利亚，这种美式和平出现了一个丑陋的裂痕。由于我们在叙利亚的各种尝试，包括秘密援助叛乱分子，发出空袭的威胁、后又按兵不动，公开援助叛军等，从目前来看，都像是失败，所以我们对正在持续的灾难有部分牵连。
But this argument is usually linked to demands for military intervention, and there it becomes less persuasive. It was precisely the “responsibility to protect” theory that justified our intervention in Libya’s civil war, and today Libyan refugees, too, are dying in the Mediterranean, and their country is in its own kind of bloody chaos.
但是，这种说法通常与要求军事干预相联系，而正是在那种做法上，它变得不那么有说服力。正是“有责任保护”的理论，让我们有理由干预利比亚内战，而如今利比亚难民也大批地死在地中海里，他们的国家正处于自己的那种血腥混乱之中。
This outcome is characteristic of many humanitarian interventions, unfortunately: They save some lives and extinguish others, they deal with one group of thugs only to empower worse successors. And the case that a humanitarian intervention in Syria would actually succeed has never been particularly strong — a cold reality unchanged by the image of a tiny body on a beach.
遗憾的是，这一结果带有许多人道主义干预的特点：挽救了某些人的性命，但让另一些人丧生；处理了一批暴徒，却只是让更糟糕的继任者上台。而人道主义干预在叙利亚能实际成功的论据从来都不特别强，这个冷酷的现实没能被一张海滩上的微小遗体的照片改变。
Of course military intervention is not the only way that the Kurdis might have been protected. They could also have been granted the opportunity so many Syrians are desperately seeking, to be airlifted to another country, and welcomed as refugees.
当然，军事干预不是库尔迪一家可能得到保护的唯一途径。他们可能也会得到许多叙利亚人正在拼命寻找的机会，那就是被空运到另一个国家，成为那里的难民。
But then the question becomes, which country has that responsibility? Who should have taken them in?
但是，接下来的问题是，那个国家有责任这样做？那个政府应该接纳他们？
One answer is that nations that are directly implicated in Syria’s agony have more responsibility to accept refugees than nations that are not. The strongest obligation would belong to those countries — the Gulf States and Iran, above all — who have fed arms and money into the Syrian conflict. A weaker-but-still-meaningful responsibility would attach to the United States, because we too have sent arms and because of the links between our Iraq intervention and the region’s current chaos. Other countries would have more attenuated obligations, or none at all.
一个答案是，那些与叙利亚的苦难有直接牵连的国家，比那些没有直接牵连的国家，有更多的责任收纳难民。最大的责任要属于那些向叙利亚的冲突输出武器和资金的国家，尤其是海湾国家和伊朗。美国也有一定的、但相对较弱的责任，因为我们也曾提供武器，也因为我们对伊拉克的介入与该地区目前的混乱有联系。其他国家的义务要小得多，或根本没有。
But the reality is roughly the reverse. Countries like Qatar and Saudi Arabia are basically accepting no refugees. The U.S. is accepting relatively few. And the countries that have opened the door widest are places like Germany and Sweden, which are motivated by a different theory of moral obligation: A utilitarian universalism, which holds that the world’s wealthy nations have an obligation to accept refugees, period, regardless of whether their own governments bear any responsibility for the crisis that produced them.
但现实大致相反。像卡塔尔和沙特阿拉伯这样的国家基本上都没有接受难民。美国只接受了很少的。对难民最大范围地敞开大门的国家，比如德国和瑞典，是出于不同的道德义务理论而那样做的：实用普适论。这种理论认为，世界上的富裕国家有接纳难民的义务，就这么简单，不管这些国家的政府是否对制造难民的危机负有任何责任。
This theory has the advantage of eliminating any messy haggling over who bears responsibility for what. When tragedy strikes, everybody above a certain level of G.D.P. just has to open the gates. (Or, perhaps, to have them open permanently.)
这一理论具有消除了就谁承担什么样的责任而讨价还价的优点。当灾难发生时，每个国内生产总值超过一定水平的国家都要敞开国门。（或者，也许永远敞开国门。）
But it has the disadvantage of being completely unworkable over the long run, as Europe is beginning to discover. The utilitarian theory is blind to the realities of culture, the challenges of assimilation, the dangers and inevitability of backlash. It takes what is a deep, long-term issue for European society — one way or another, over the next century the continent will have to absorb large numbers of new arrivals, from Africa especially — and brings things to a crisis point right now. And then it tries to evade that crisis by treating dissent as illegitimate, which only works until it doesn’t: One day you have a pro-immigration “consensus,” and the next a party with fascist roots is leading Sweden’s polls.
但是，从长远来看，这一理论具有完全行不通的缺点，正如欧洲已开始发现的那样。实用主义理论没有考虑文化现实和难民融入的挑战，以及必然出现的问题、及其带来的危险。对欧洲社会来说，这是一个长期、深远的问题，欧洲大陆需要以这种或那种方式，在未来的世纪里，接受大批新移民的涌入，尤其是来自非洲的，目前这个问题已呈现出危机状态。然而，欧洲在试图用把不同意见非法化来回避这一危机，直到不能再回避的那天：今天，你有一个支持移民的“共识”，而明天，具有法西斯主义根源的党派在瑞典民意调查中将占优势。
So prudence has to temper idealism on these issues. There may be a moral obligation to accept refugees in wealthy countries, but there cannot be a moral obligation to accept refugees at a pace one’s own society cannot reasonably bear.
因此，在这些问题上，需要用谨慎思考来缓和理想主义。富裕国家可能有接受难民的道德责任，但没有以国内社会不能合理承担的速度接受难民的道德义务。
Which means that every country’s obligations may be different. It seems reasonable to believe that by accepting so very, very few refugees — only 1,500 so far — from a conflict our Middle Eastern misadventures worsened, the United States is failing in its obligations to the Syrian people.
这意味着每个国家承担的义务可能会有所不同。似乎有理由认为，从因为我们在中东的各种不幸冒险而恶化的危机中，只接受这么非常、非常少的难民（迄今只有1500名），美国未能履行其对叙利亚人民的义务。
But it’s also reasonable to worry that by accepting hundreds of thousands of refugees on a continent already struggling with assimilation, and making itself a magnet for still more, Germany is failing in its obligations to its own.
但是，也有理由担心，在外来者融入问题上已经困难重重的欧洲大陆，接受成千上完的难民，并让本国对更多的难民有吸引力，是德国未能履行对自己公民的义务。