“A parasite who lives off taxpayers’ money.” That was how my father disparaged the emperor of Japan. Back then, our emperor was Hirohito and my father’s antipathy toward him was typical of Japanese intellectuals. I grew up thinking that the sooner the emperor was thrown out into the street, the better.
“躺在纳税人血汗钱上的寄生虫。”这是我的父亲鄙夷日本天皇的用语。那时候，我们的天皇是裕仁(Hirohito)，而我父亲对他的反感在日本知识分子当中很普遍。在我成长的过程中，一直认为越早把天皇赶到街上越好。
But as time went by and I watched the current emperor, Akihito, obligingly perform his symbolic duties, year after year, tirelessly greeting crowds and visiting victims of natural disasters, I mellowed. I began to like him. I even began to pity the soft-spoken emperor, as did many of my compatriots, conservatives and liberals alike. His schedule is ruthless. His is a job no one wants.
然而，随着时间的推移，看着现任天皇明仁(Akihito)兢兢业业地履行自己的象征性职责，年复一年，不知疲倦地向公众致意、探访受灾者，我的态度软化了。我开始喜欢他，甚至开始同情这位说话柔声细语的天皇。这与许多同胞的想法一样，不管他们是保守派还是自由派。天皇的日程毫无松懈的余地，他这份工作谁都不想干。
Yet there is a job that’s far worse: being married to an emperor. There have been days, as “The Tale of Genji” tells us, when being one of the emperor’s wives or concubines was the most enviable position a woman could attain. But a thousand years later, times have changed, even if esoteric rituals remain the same. Today, marrying a future emperor is the last thing any sane woman would want.
然而，还有一份工作要糟糕许多：嫁给天皇。曾几何时，就像《源氏物语》里描写的那样，成为天皇的妻妾是女人能够得到的最令人羡慕的地位。然而1000年过去了，时代早已变迁，即便宫廷的繁文缛节始终如一。今天，与未来的天皇成婚已是任何明智的女性绝不想要的命运。
Recently, Emperor Akihito made an unusual video appearance expressing his desire to retire. I listened with great sympathy. Then, thinking how his retirement might affect the imperial system, I realized to my surprise that I actually wanted the system to continue. After years of being in the minority, I have now aligned myself with a large majority of the population.
不久前，明仁天皇非同寻常地通过一则视频表达了生前退位的意愿。我抱着极大的同情听了他这番讲话。接下来，在思考他的退位可能会对天皇制度造成何种影响时，我吃惊地意识到，自己其实希望这一制度延续下去。当了多年少数派之后，我如今与日本的大多数人想法一致。
There are three reasons behind my change of heart. First, the least fortunate among us seem truly touched and comforted by the emperor’s visits and words. His role as consoler in chief has value.
我改弦更张背后，有三个理由。首先，最不幸的日本国民似乎的确被天皇的探访和言辞深深打动，因此受到慰藉。他扮演的首席安抚者的角色自有其价值。
Second, our prime ministers rotate so quickly that these men have become even more forgettable than they actually are. It makes diplomatic sense to have the emperor as a recognizable face of the nation.
其次，我们的历任首相本身就不是一些令人印象深刻的角色，又由于走马灯似地上台下台，更是使得他们极易被人遗忘。让天皇充当日本不变的面孔，在外交上合情合理。 
And third, just because most reasonable people in the West seem to think we should get rid of this particularly inscrutable, mist-shrouded institution, I’d like to see it continue. It’s fun to see people shake their heads and roll their eyes.
最后，西方的多数明智之士似乎认为，我们应该抛弃这种不可理喻、迷雾重重的制度。光是为了这个，我也想看它延续下去。看到别人摇头翻白眼，不失为一桩乐事。
Emperor Akihito’s plea for retirement came as a reminder of a possibility some people refuse to face: the imperial system may not survive, no matter how we feel about it. The imperial family now has seven princesses and but a single male heir in the youngest generation, the crown prince’s nephew. If Emperor Akihito retires and the current crown prince ascends the throne, this nephew will be next, and last, in line. It is probable in this day and age that this precious 9-year-old boy will reach adulthood. The real question is, what woman in her right mind would want to marry him?
明仁天皇提出退位的请求，提醒我们一种许多人拒绝面对的可能性：不管我们作何感想，天皇制度也许终将消亡。皇室最年轻的一代人中，目前有七位公主、但只有一名男性继承人，也就是皇太子的侄子。假如明仁天皇退位，皇太子继位，这位侄子将成为第一顺位继承人，同时也是最后的继承人。在今天这个年代，这位宝贵的小男孩大概会长大成人。但真正的问题是，有什么神志正常的女性会想要与他成婚？
Over the last half-century, the Japanese people have witnessed the severe occupational hazards of marrying a future emperor. Michiko, the current empress, suffered a monthslong loss of voice because of stress; when she finally recovered, we were shocked to see a healthy young woman turn prematurely into an emaciated, frail figure, though still beautiful. Stress-related ailments continued to assail her. Yet she bore two sons (and a daughter), thus accomplishing her essential job: to produce an heir.
过去半个世纪，日本民众亲眼看着与未来天皇成婚带来的严重的职务风险。现任皇后美智子(Michiko)曾经因为压力过大而失声好几个月；当她最终康复后，我们惊讶地发现，虽然她美丽依旧，但这名健康的年轻女性过早地变得体型消瘦、形容憔悴。与压力有关的疾病持续不断地折磨着她。然而，她还是生下了两个儿子（和一个女儿），从而完成了自己的核心使命：诞下子嗣。
In contrast, Crown Princess Masako, a Harvard graduate and former junior diplomat, was able to bear only a daughter after what was reported to be years of intense fertility treatments. She has effectively disappeared from public view, making only rare appearances.
相比之下，毕业于哈佛大学、曾为初级外交官的皇太子妃雅子(Masako)只生下了一个女儿，据报道还是在经过了多年高强度的生育治疗之后。她基本从公众视野中消失了，鲜有露面。
“Why did she ever marry him?” my female friends often cry out. Masako not only was a commoner, but she also, like many well-educated women of today, had a career — or rather, a career most well-educated women of today would love to have. Because we can identify with her, we keep wondering at her decision. Indeed, in an age when women have more options than ever before, why choose a life that reduces you to a womb to carry a son? Why bring back the memory of dark days in Japanese history when, under the patriarchal family law of 1898, every household was required to have a male heir? Unlike the imperial family, common people were allowed to adopt sons, but it was indeed a gloomy period for many women.
“她干嘛要嫁给他？”我的女性友人常常哀叹。雅子不仅出身平民，而且与许多当今受过良好教育的女性一样，拥有一份事业——而且是当今多数受过良好教育的女性梦寐以求的事业。因为我们能够感同身受，我们对她的决定困惑不已。的确，在一个女性拥有前所未有的抉择权利的年代，为何要选择一种将你降格为生男嗣的子宫的人生？为何要唤起对日本历史上黑暗时期的记忆——在1898年的父权家庭法中，规定每个家庭必须拥有男性子嗣？与皇室不同的是，当时的平民家庭可以收养儿子，但那的确对许多女性而言是暗无天日的年代。
And so my friends and I all agree on one thing: No sane woman would ever marry the young prince, the sole heir. Never.
因此，友人和我都认为：绝不会有明智的女性想要与年轻的亲王——这位唯一的继承人——成婚。绝不。
What some people absurdly claim to be a 2,600-year-old male succession — with several ancient empresses acting as regent — was only made possible thanks to the existence of concubines. While insisting on male succession, the current Imperial House Law laudably, and naïvely, forbids them, laying the burden of producing an heir squarely on the wife’s shoulders. Yet Crown Princess Masako had at least one other woman who could and eventually did take over her job — the wife of the crown prince’s brother, who gave birth to the last heir. The next time around, there will be no such substitute. Marrying the last heir would mean that the continuance of the 2,600-year-old tradition would depend solely on that wife’s luck in bearing a son.
有些人荒谬地宣称男性继承——有几位古代的女天皇摄政——有2600年的历史，但这之所以成为可能，不过是因为侧室的存在。尽管坚持男性继承，当前的《皇室典范》(Imperial House Law)却禁止侧室，让生下继承人的重担落到了皇后一个人的肩上。这种规定值得称道，又颇为天真。不过，雅子皇太子妃还有至少另外一位女性可以分担她的任务，最终此人也的确这么做了——皇太子弟弟的妻子诞下了最后这名继承人。到了下一回，可就没有这样的替代人选了。与最后的继承人成婚就意味着，2600年历史的传承将彻底取决于他的妻子是否有幸生下子嗣。
If the Japanese people want to see the imperial system survive, the first practical step would be to allow female succession to the throne, whatever the historical claims to exclusively male succession may be. Nearly three-fourths of the population already welcomes the idea. After the new Constitution guaranteed gender equality in 1947, women made gains in many fields, but until recently we had yet to see a woman in a prominent public position.
倘若日本民众希望看到天皇制度传承下去，讲求实际的第一步应是允许女性继承皇位，不管那些仅由男性继承的历史说法。已有近四分之三的日本人口赞同这一设想。日本新宪法在1947年作出性别平等的保障之后，女性在许多领域取得了进步，但直到不久前我们都没有看到有女性担任重要公职。
Then came the landslide victory this July of Yuriko Koike as the first female governor of Tokyo. Generally quiet Japanese voters turned overnight into imitations of boisterous Americans, chanting “Yuriko! Yuriko!” throughout her victory speech. The enthusiasm of her amazingly diverse supporters is clear testimony to the readiness of the Japanese people to see a reigning empress.
到了今年7月，小池百合子(Yuriko Koike)取得压倒性胜利，成为当选东京都知事的首位女性。通常默不作声的日本选民一夜之间模仿起了喧嚣的美国人，在她发表胜选演讲时不停地大喊“百合子！百合子！”。令人惊奇的是，她的支持者涵盖了多种多样的人群，而他们的热情清晰地证明了，日本民众乐于看到女天皇登基。
There is of course no way to permanently secure the continuation of the imperial family. An emperor is deprived of basic human rights guaranteed by the Constitution to the commonest of Japanese: Like many monarchs, he can choose neither his occupation nor his place of residence, and he has no freedom of expression. Not only the Japanese imperial family but also other constitutional monarchies may one day self-destruct.
显然，并没有办法一劳永逸地保障皇室的延续。天皇被剥夺了宪法赋予日本最普通民众的基本人权：与许多君主一样，他既不能选择自己的职业，又不能选择自己的居所，还没有言论自由。不仅是日本皇室，其他地方的君主立宪制或许有一天都会自我消亡。
Before that day comes, let the Japanese people see a reigning empress stand in the center when the imperial family waves to the crowd. Let them see her walk tall with her husband demurely following behind.
在那一天到来之前，请让日本民众看到，当皇室成员向人群招手致意的时候，有一位在位的女天皇站在中央。让他们看到，她昂首阔步，而她的丈夫谦恭地跟在身后。