Moving to a particular neighborhood in order to land a seat at a coveted public school has long been the middle-class modus operandi for obtaining a high-quality education in New York, where placement in many elementary schools is determined by home address.
长期以来，搬到某个社区以便在某所人人向往的公立学校谋得一席之地，一直是纽约中产阶层追求高质量教育的必经之路，因为纽约的许多小学都分片招生。
But navigating school zones has become much trickier in the past few years as more families with young children put down roots in the city. Even living two blocks from a well-regarded public school no longer means your child will get in, and with many neighborhoods becoming increasingly expensive, it isn’t always possible to squeeze into a smaller apartment.
过去几年，更多有小孩的家庭在纽约扎了根，这大大提升了进入某些学区的难度。距知名公立学校两个街区再也不意味着子女能到那里就读。而且许多地段的房价越发昂贵，全家挤到一套较小的公寓房里有时都会成为一种奢望。
In November the attendance boundaries for Public Schools 321 and 107 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, were redrawn to relieve overcrowding, which was bad luck for families who had bought their homes specifically because of those schools and suddenly found themselves zoned for another.
去年11月，位于布鲁克林公园坡的第321和第107公立学校调整了招生范围，目的是缓解适龄学生过多的局面。一些专为子女入学而在附近买房的家庭因此倒了霉，他们突然发现自己分到了另外一个学区。
Even without rezoning, families living in districts with overcrowded schools may find their best-laid plans upended. Last month, more than 2,300 children, or roughly 3 percent of applicants, were put on waiting lists for kindergarten seats at 105 schools, according to the Department of Education. Although the overall number of children on waiting lists is down slightly from last year, waiting lists at some schools soared.
即使不调整招生范围，住在相应学区的家庭也可能因为适龄学生人数过多而无法实现他们的最佳方案。纽约市教育局(Department of Education)的数据显示，上个月有2300多名儿童进入了105所幼儿园的等候名单，约占申请人数的3%。虽然待入学儿童总数比去年稍有下降，但部分学校的待入学人数急剧上升。
The waiting list at P. S. 41 in Greenwich Village had 100 students, up from 55 last year, and the one at P. S. 307 in Queens had 167, up from 109. Many children on waiting lists end up securing spots as families of enrolled children pursue other options: moving away; placing their children in private schools or gifted-and-talented programs; or winning lotteries for charter-school admission.
位于曼哈顿南部格林威治村的第41公立学校，有100个孩子上了等候名单，高于去年的55人。皇后区第307公立学校的等候名单人数从109名增至167名。许多等待者最终得以入学的原因是有些已入学学生的家长选择了其他方案，比如搬到别处，让子女去上私立学校或资优特长班，或者有幸得到了特许学校的眷顾。
But the wait to find out can be excruciating. By the end of June, those who remain on a waiting list will receive an offer of an alternative school.
但等待的过程可能很痛苦。到6月底，仍排在等待名单上的家庭将收到备选学校的入学通知。
All of this is forcing families to consider new ways to navigate the city school system. Some do school research even before a child is born. Other parents pay specialists to help identify neighborhoods with up-and-coming schools, the hope being that if they move to these places now, the school will have improved by the time their child reaches kindergarten.
所有这些都迫使家长们在纽约的教育体系中寻找新的出路。有些家长甚至在孩子出生之前就开始研究上学问题。也有家长聘请专家来帮他们锁定那些前途光明的学校，他们打算现在就搬到相应的学区，并寄希望于等子女上幼儿园时这些学校能变得更好。
Still others rent a home in a top school zone. Then, if they find themselves priced out when it comes time to buy an apartment, they’ll move to a more affordable neighborhood. The child will be able to stay put, schoolwise, because city policy is basically “once you’re in, you’re in.”
还有些家长在好学区租房。如果在买房时发现追不上别人的出价，他们就会搬到房价更为适中的社区。但他们的子女仍然可以上原来的学校，因为纽约市的政策基本上是“一旦入学，不再转校”。
There have always been people who outright lie by borrowing an address from a friend or relative to get their children into a school. If caught, however, those students will lose their seats.
舞弊事件也层出不穷，有些家长借用朋友或亲戚的家庭住址来实现子女入学的目的。但如果校方发现，就会取消这些孩子的入学资格。
 Sure, it’s easy to mock the neuroses of New York City parents when it comes to their offspring, as films and documentaries have done. But the city poses unique challenges, and as a result, more families are thinking earlier about where they want to live in relation to what it means for their children’s education.
当然，在别人家的孩子该上学的时候嘲笑他们忧心忡忡的纽约家长很容易，这种桥段在电影和文学作品里都能找到。但这座城市给家长们带来的挑战很特殊，因此越来越多的家长在考虑何处安家时会早早地把这个问题和子女的教育前景联系在一起。
“Anyone who thinks it through realizes you can’t count on one option,” said Christine Dirringer, a commodities banker who, with her partner, Keith Richards, also a commodities banker, is selling an Upper West Side two-bedroom and looking for a town house in Carroll Gardens or Park Slope. The reasoning: Both areas have good public and private school options and offer more space for the money.
在投资银行从事大宗商品业务的克里斯汀·迪林格(Christine Dirringer)说：“考虑周全的人都会意识到，你不能把希望都寄托在一种方案上。”她的伴侣基思·理查兹(Keith Richards)也从事这一行，他们正要把位于曼哈顿上西城的一套两卧公寓卖出去，然后在布鲁克林的卡罗尔花园或公园坡买一间联排别墅，原因是这两个社区都有好的公立和私立学校，而且以同样的价格能买到更大的房子。
Chloe, their daughter, hasn’t celebrated her first birthday yet.
他们的女儿克洛伊(Chloe)还不到一岁。
“It’s crazy to be considering schools when she’s only 7 months old,” Ms. Dirringer said. “But I’d rather have a plan, knowing how difficult it can be to get in.”
迪林格说：“在她只有七个月大时就考虑上学问题是很疯狂。但我知道上学会有多难，所以还是要有所打算。”
Here are some of the ways families with young children are approaching the complicated calculus of real estate and education in the city.
在纽约，有小孩的家庭会通过下列方法来解决住房和教育这个复杂的问题。
Renting in a Good School Zone
在好学区租房
Renting or buying in a given school zone may be the most straightforward strategy for getting into a popular public school. But neighborhoods with coveted public schools tend to be pricey. The good news is if you can’t afford to stay, your children don’t have to switch schools.
在特定学区租房或买房可能是进入某所热门公立学校的最直接途径。但热门学区的房价往往较高。好消息是即使家长无法承担在该学区居住的费用，他们的子女也不必转学。
They have the right to remain in the same public school until graduation, regardless of where in the city the family lives after registration day, according to the Department of Education. The idea behind this longstanding regulation is to offer stability to children.
按照纽约市教育局的规定，入学注册后，无论他们把家安在纽约市的什么地方，这些孩子都有权在同一所公立学校念书，直到毕业。这项规定由来已久，目的是让孩子们获得稳定性。
“Continuity and stability help teachers and schools tailor instruction for the needs of each child over the long term,” Devon Puglia, a spokesman for the Education Department, wrote in an e-mail. “When students jump from school to school either midyear or between grades, personalization is difficult.”
纽约市教育局发言人德文·普利亚(Devon Puglia)在电子邮件里表示：“连续性和稳定性有助于教师和学校针对每个孩子的需求进行长期的个体化教育。如果学生在年中或升级时转学，就很难做到因材施教。”
Some parents in overcrowded schools bristle at families who take advantage of the rule with no intention of staying in the neighborhood. But the Education Department does not track the movement of families after enrollment. And families who end up leaving the zone often would prefer to stay but can’t for financial reasons.
在适龄学生过多的学校，一些家长对利用这项规定而无意留在本社区的家庭感到不满。但学生入学后，纽约市教育局就不再追踪其家庭的搬迁情况。其实，由于财力不济而搬家的家庭往往更愿意留下来。
When Sundus Kubba moved from Ann Arbor, Mich., to take an investment banking job in New York four years ago, she and her husband, Joe Kazemi, a graduate student and independent statistician, searched for a rental that would put their daughter, Maya, within the zone for the highly sought-after P. S. 87 on the Upper West Side. 
四年前，松德斯·库巴(Sundus Kubba)在纽约一家投资银行找到了工作，她和丈夫乔·卡泽米(Joe Kazemi)从密歇根州安娜堡搬到了纽约。卡泽米是一名独立统计员，在读硕士学位。夫妇二人随后开始为租房四处奔走，目的是让他们的女儿玛雅(Maya)入读备受青睐的上西城第87公立学校。
“We had to be very specific with addresses — what side of a street an apartment was on,” Mr. Kazemi recalled.
卡泽米回忆说：“当时我们必须对地址有非常具体的要求，具体到在哪条街的哪一边。”
The couple rented a two-bedroom on the second floor of a walk-up two blocks from P. S. 87. In 2011, Maya began kindergarten at the school, which offers a dual-language program of English and Spanish and runs through fifth grade.
他们在一幢没有电梯的大厦二楼找到了一套双卧公寓，离第87公立学校有两个街区。2011年玛雅开始在这所学校上幼儿园。学校实行英语和西班牙语双语教育，可以一直念到五年级。
This year, with Maya in first grade, the family searched for a place to buy in the neighborhood but found nothing they could afford. So with the help of Stefania Cardinali, a broker at Citi Habitats, they began looking in Harlem and Hamilton Heights.
今年玛雅上了一年级，一家人打算在附近买房，但找不到一套买得起的房子。因此，在房地产中介公司Citi Habitats经纪人斯特凡尼亚·卡尔迪纳利(Stefania Cardinali)的帮助下，他们开始在曼哈顿的哈莱姆和汉密尔顿高地寻找安家之处。
 “We can get more for our money uptown,” said Mr. Kazemi, noting that the 15- to 25-minute subway commute wasn’t bad. Last month the couple went into contract on a two-bedroom two-bath apartment with a private rooftop cabana in a full-service building in Hamilton Heights for $680,000. A recent online search for a comparable place in the P. S. 87 zone found listings from $995,000 to $3.85 million.
卡泽米说：“以我们的财力，在曼哈顿上城区能买到更大的房子。”他觉得上下班坐15-25分钟的地铁还不算差。上个月，夫妇两人签了购房合同，以68万美元的价格买下了汉密尔顿高地的一套双卧双卫公寓，有独立的屋顶露台，所在公寓楼提供全套物业服务。近期的网上搜索结果显示，第87公立学校招生范围内的类似住宅标价为99.5万美元到385万美元。
Though school quality was a factor in their search, Mr. Kazemi added, the fact that Maya can remain at P. S. 87 is “fantastic for us.”
卡泽米还说，虽然学校质量是他们买房时考虑的因素之一，但玛雅仍然可以在第87公立学校上学，这“对我们来说实在是太好了”。
Now the family is zoned for P. S. 153, which has lower test scores than P. S. 87, but also has gifted-and-talented classes and language and art programs.
现在他们住在第153公立学校的招生范围内，该校学生的考试成绩比第87公立学校低，但也设有资优特长班以及语言和艺术课程。
Find an Up-and-Coming School
找一所前途光明的学校
School advisers say more parents are apartment-hunting in neighborhoods that offer promising schools with strong leadership and rising attendance rates, including Greenpoint and Windsor Terrace in Brooklyn, and parts of South Harlem, Inwood and Washington Heights in Manhattan.
入学顾问指出，更多的家长正在前途光明的学校附近找房，这些学校的领导班子强而有力，入学率不断上升，这样的地段包括布鲁克林的绿点和温莎台地、曼哈顿南哈莱姆的一部分、因伍德和华盛顿高地。
For instance, respectable options like P. S. 180 in Harlem, which teaches prekindergarten through eighth grade, have remained under the radar mainly because they served a low-income community, said Clara Hemphill, the founder of Insideschools.org, a project of the Center for New York City Affairs at the New School that offers profiles of city schools.
非营利机构Insideschools.org是纽约新学院大学(New School)下属的“纽约事务中心”(Center for New York City Affairs)设立的项目，提供纽约各所学校的信息。创始人克拉拉·亨普希尔(Clara Hemphill)介绍，哈莱姆第180公立学校就是一个很好的例子。这所学校开设从幼儿园预科班到八年级的课程，一直以来都没有受到家长们的关注，原因主要是它面向的是低收入社区。
 “It was always a terrific school with a terrific principal,” Ms. Hemphill said, “but its test scores reflected the fact that poor kids tend not to get a fancy preschool education.” P. S. 180’s attributes, she added, include small classes and active parents. “Now, we’re seeing more middle-class parents choosing it.”
亨普希尔说：“第180公立学校一直都很棒，校长也很优秀，但该校学生的考试成绩表明，低收入家庭的子女往往不会得到出色的学前教育。”她还指出，第180公立学校的特点包括小班教学，以及热心的家长。“现在，我们发现越来越多的中产阶层家庭选择了这所学校。”
Julianna LeMieux, an assistant professor of biology at Mercy College, visited schools in Washington Heights, Harlem and the Upper West Side last June in preparation for a move from Boston; her husband, Mark Emerson, had accepted a new job. “We were willing to do whatever it took to get our sons into a good school,” she said.
去年6月，莫西学院(Mercy College)生物学助理教授朱莉安娜·勒密厄(Julianna LeMieux)从波士顿搬到纽约，在此之前她参观了华盛顿高地、哈莱姆和上西城的多所学校。她丈夫马克·埃莫森(Mark Emerson)已经找到了新工作。勒密厄说：“当时，为了让我们的两个儿子上个好学校，我们准备付出任何代价。”
That included squeezing themselves and their boys, 6 and 2, into a one-bedroom on the Upper West Side if necessary. But after visiting P. S. 180 and being impressed by the small class sizes and the diversity of the student population, she narrowed her search to condos in that school’s zone.
他们打算付出的代价之一就是，一家四口在必要时将挤进上西城的一间单卧公寓里。他们的两个儿子一个六岁，一个两岁。但参观了第180公立学校后，小规模的班级和多样化的生源打动了勒密厄，她把寻找住房的范围缩小到了该校的招生范围之内。
There were five listings in the Harlem area within their budget. The couple bought a two-bedroom with one and a half baths and a washer/dryer, listed for $520,000. Their elder son, Isaiah, began kindergarten in September at P. S. 180. Ms. LeMieux says the principal greets students by name each morning at drop-off.
在哈莱姆，夫妇两人找到了五所价格可以承受的住宅。最后他们买下了一套双卧双卫公寓（其中一个卫生间没有淋浴），配有洗衣/干衣机，标价52万美元。他们的大儿子以赛亚(Isaiah)去年9月份开始在第180公立学校上幼儿园。勒密厄说，每天早上校长都会在校门口和学生们打招呼，而且能叫出每个学生的名字。
“It ended up being a great match,” she added. “I can see Morningside Park from our window and like being so close to Central Park.” The number of children they saw in the neighborhood when they moved in, she added, “really spoke to the fact that this is probably going to be a good place, a comfortable place to have for years.”
她还说：“选择这里非常合适。窗外就能看到晨边公园，而且我喜欢离中央公园这么近。”另外，一家人搬来时看到了很多小孩，勒密厄认为，“这确实表明这里很可能会是个好地方，一个可以舒适地住上很多年的地方。”
A Developing Neighborhood
一个发展中的社区
Schools don’t always follow their neighborhood’s upward trajectory. “Every neighborhood is different,” said Joyce Szuflita, the founder of NYC School Help, which helps families find schools in Brooklyn, “but what I find is the gentrification of the school lags many years behind a gentrification of a neighborhood. People occasionally move in when they’re pregnant and say this neighborhood is awesome and diverse and rich, and then their kids get to be school age and they’re like, huh?”
学校并不总是随着社区一同上升。布鲁克林入学咨询服务机构NYC School Help创始人乔伊斯·祖弗利塔(Joyce Szuflita)说：“每个社区的情况都不尽相同。但我发现在中产阶层化方面，学校要落后于社区好多年。怀上孩子后偶然搬到某个社区的人会说这个社区很棒、多元化而且富足，然后等到他们的小孩该上学时，她们就傻了眼了。”
Many of those families, she said, end up trying to “squeak into the schools” in better-established neighborhoods nearby.
她说，许多这样的家庭最后都会“想尽办法”搬到附近配套更完善的社区去上学。
But there is often another contingent — a core group of new families who are “drawn to a school that looks promising,” Ms. Szuflita said.
不过祖弗利塔指出，也存在另一个群体，这是一个由新组建家庭构成的核心团体，“吸引他们的是看起来前途光明的学校。”
Kelly Bare, an editor at The New Yorker magazine, and her husband, Jonathan Cohen, the music booker for “Late Night With Jimmy Fallon,” traded a studio in the East Village for a two-bedroom rental in Prospect Heights about five years ago. Schools weren’t the first thing on their minds.
大约五年前，凯莉·巴尔(Kelly Bare)和乔纳森·科恩(Jonathan Cohen)用在曼哈顿东村的一间工作室换了布鲁克林普罗斯佩高地的一套双卧公寓的租住权。巴尔是《纽约客》(The New Yorker)杂志编辑，丈夫科恩则是《吉米·法伦深夜秀》(Late Night With Jimmy Fallon)节目的选角顾问。他们并没有优先考虑孩子上学的问题。
“We were just trying to wrap our heads around being parents,” said Ms. Bare, who was pregnant with their first child at the time.
当时巴尔已经怀上了他们的第一个孩子，她说：“我们只是想和父母住的近一些。”
In search of more space and a family-friendly vibe, she said, they were attracted by the neighborhood’s good transportation, proximity to Prospect Park and cultural institutions like the Brooklyn Museum — not to mention the more affordable rents.
巴尔表示，当时他们想找一所大一点儿的房子，也希望周围环境更适合一家大小，这套公寓吸引之处在于便利的交通，临近普罗斯佩公园和布鲁克林博物馆这样的文化设施，更不用说更为低廉的租金。
But soon, apartment prices began to climb, and they had been hoping to buy.
但该地段的房价很快开始上涨，而他们则一直想买房。
The couple decided to hunt on the edge of the neighborhood, on the border of Crown Heights, where they would be able to afford more space.
夫妇两人决定在该地段外围，也就是布鲁克林皇冠高地的边缘地带找房，在这里他们能买到更大的住宅。
But the school situation was mixed. While Public Schools 9 and 316 in Prospect Heights were gaining attention, P. S. 22 in Crown Heights was underperforming. Enrollment dropped, test scores remained low, safety concerns were raised and teachers complained of unresponsive and demoralizing leadership.
但当地的学校良莠不齐。普罗斯佩高地第9和第316公立学校越发热门，皇冠高地第22公立学校则表现较差——入学人数下降，学生的考试成绩一直较低，安全性受到质疑，教师们也对反应迟钝并且令人丧气的学校领导班子颇有怨言。
Nevertheless, in 2010 Ms. Bare and Mr. Cohen took the leap and bought a new three-bedroom condo on the Crown Heights border for about $600,000.
尽管如此，夫妇两人还是在2010年迈出了这一步。他们在皇冠高地外围地带买下了一套三卧新公寓，价格约为60万美元。
“We knew we could not afford to buy that kind of space in a zone where the schools were already proven,” Ms. Bare said. “We took a calculated risk — buying an apartment that we loved, on the edge of a neighborhood that we loved, in an area we presumed would change fairly rapidly.”
巴尔说：“我们知道，在知名学校附近，我们买不起这样的房子。我们计算了这样做的风险——买一套我们喜欢的公寓，住在所中意社区的边缘地带，并且预计我们所在的地段能相当快地出现变化。”
Part of the plan was to get involved in a local school and “actively recruit like-minded families,” Ms. Bare said. But ultimately, “we kind of took a gamble that our trajectory would be the same as the school trajectory.”
她表示，当时他们的计划包括进入附近的学校并“积极团结有类似想法的家庭”。但最终“我们寄希望于学校的发展轨迹能和我们的保持一致，这多少有点像一场赌博”。
Timing, it turned out, was on their side. The following year the city announced that it would phase out P. S. 22 and replace it with P. S. 705, also known as the Brooklyn Arts and Science Elementary School, which shares a new building with Exceed Charter School and currently teaches through third grade and offers dual-language immersion starting in prekindergarten, as well as art, music, dance and fencing.
实际情况表明，他们选对了时机。2011年纽约市政府宣布，将取消第22公立学校并以第705公立学校取而代之，后者也被称为布鲁克林艺术与科学小学(Brooklyn Arts and Science Elementary School)。这所学校和伊克希德特许学校(Exceed Charter School)在同一幢新建大楼里，到三年级为止都由目前的同一批教师任教。第705公立学校从幼儿园预科班开始提供双语教育，还设有艺术、音乐、舞蹈和击剑课程。
“It’s like a little gem,” said Ms. Bare, who enrolled Drew, 5, her older child, in prekindergarten and plans to have her daughter, Lizzie, 2, follow in 2015.
巴尔说：“这就像一份珍贵的礼物。”他们五岁的大儿子德鲁(Drew)已经上了这所学校的幼儿园学前班，他们两岁的小女儿莉齐(Lizzie)也将在2015年入学。
Move to Afford Private School
到上得起的私立学校
The expense and competition involved in sending a child to a good private school in the city is monumental. But with no guarantee that their child will end up in a top-notch public school, some families are viewing private education as a safety net and, gambling that their child gets in, are willing to move to a cheaper place to fund the tuition. In other words: live small, educate big.
在纽约，把孩子送进好的私立学校要承担高昂的费用，同时面临激烈的竞争。不过，由于无法保证子女能进入一流公立学校，一些家庭已经把私立教育视为一个安全网，把宝押在孩子们能进入私立学校上。他们愿意搬到房价较低的地方，以便省下钱来交学费。换句话说就是，住小房子，上大学校。
Marcia Giordano, a New York City real estate broker, and her husband, Shawn, a private chef, were thrilled when P. S. 276, a new elementary school in Battery Park City, opened near their home in 2009, just after the birth of their son, Otto.
2009年，曼哈顿炮台公园城设立了一所新小学——第276公立学校。这让纽约房地产经纪人玛西娅·乔达诺(Marcia Giordano)和她的丈夫、私人厨师肖恩(Shawn)欣喜不已，因为这所学校就在他们家附近，而他们的儿子奥托(Otto)刚刚出生。
They had outgrown their one-bedroom. But rather than sell it in a down market, they held onto it and moved to a larger rental unit in the building, so as to remain in the same school zone. Then last year, after Otto, then 3, was put on the waiting list for P. S. 276’s pre-K program, their plan began to feel tenuous. Parents at P. S. 276 were petitioning to limit next year’s kindergarten to avoid overcrowding.
当时，只有一间卧室的房子已经不够一家人住了。但他们并没有在房价下跌之际把房子卖掉，而是在同一幢大楼里租了一套更大的公寓，以便留在这个学区。去年，三岁的奥托进入了第276公立学校幼儿园学前班的等候名单，但他们的计划开始显得有些靠不住了，原因是这所学校的家长要求限制明年的幼儿园招生人数，以免学生过多。
So the family moved out of the zone to a cheaper two-bedroom rental in the shadow of the Manhattan Bridge, on what Ms. Giordano calls “the fringe” of Dumbo.
因此，一家人搬出了这个学区，在曼哈顿桥下租了一套更便宜的双卧公寓，乔达诺把这个地段称为曼哈顿桥下的边缘地带。
They are thus saving about a third of their monthly housing costs and funneling that directly into tuition for a private pre-K program for Otto and child care for their daughter, Chieko, 1. If their plans change again, they can always squeeze back into the apartment they own.
这样，他们每月的住房开支下降了约三分之一，这些钱马上成了奥托的私立幼儿园学前班学费和他一岁的妹妹切耶科(Chieko)的保育费。如果情况再有变化，他们还可以回到原来的那间公寓里挤一挤。
“Who knows what will happen with public school?” Ms. Giordano said. “We have to keep the door open for private school. That was the impetus for moving.
乔达诺说：“谁知道公立学校会变成什么样？我们得做好上私立学校的准备。这就是我们搬家的动力。”
“No matter what,” she added, “it’s ultimately a crapshoot. You kind of hope that people move and a spot opens up.”
她还说：“无论怎样，在这方面总是要碰运气。我们盼着有人搬走，这样学校就能空出一个名额来。”