As the East Coast braces for the first ferocious snowstorm of the season, we wanted to revisit a frosty adage: Is it true that no two snowflakes are the same? Never, ever ever?
随着东海岸迎来本季第一场猛烈的暴风雪，我们想重温那句古老的谚语：真的不存在两片完全相同的雪花吗？就从来没有过吗？
Not quite, said Kenneth G. Libbrecht, a physicist at the California Institute of Technology, who found a way to create what he calls “identical twin” snowflakes in his lab.
加州理工学院(California Institute of Technology)的物理学家肯尼思·G·利布雷希特(Kenneth G. Libbrecht)说，不尽然。他找到一个方法能在自己的实验室里制作“同卵双生”雪花。
Since each snowflake faces a different turbulent path through the atmosphere, each twist, turn and fall grants it a unique symmetry. But if you subtract nature’s volatility from the equation, then these icy flowers are no longer guaranteed uniqueness. By placing two crystal seeds next to each other and growing them under the exact same conditions, Dr. Libbrecht found that he could create two snowflakes with nearly the same intricate shapes and patterns.
每片雪花在穿越大气层时经历不同的动荡环境，每一次扭动、转弯和下落都赋予它独特的对称图案。但是如果你去除大自然的不确定性，那么这些冰冷的花朵就不再具有独特性。利布雷希特博士发现，把两个晶种并排放置，在完全相同的环境中培植，能制作出两朵几乎拥有完全相同的复杂形状和图案的雪花。
“I started calling them identical twins because they are like identical people,” he said. “They are too similar to just happen by chance, but not absolutely precisely identical to the last molecule.”
他说：“我开始称它们为同卵双胞胎，因为它们像两个一模一样的人。它们太相似了，相似到不是随机而来的程度，但从最小的微粒层次上讲，它们并不完全一样。”
Dr. Libbrecht has been growing snowflakes in sunny Pasadena, Calif. — where snow falls very rarely — using a laboratory chiller and sapphire glass for two decades, though he only struck upon the recipe for identical ones last August. By adjusting the temperature and humidity he can manipulate their designs, creating a vast array of patterns. He photographs them with the help of a photomicroscope that is specially designed to capture tiny snow crystals. Negative 10 degrees Celsius creates frozen flowers with flat plates. At minus 2 degrees Celsius he can make triangular snow crystals. If he grows the crystals under high humidity levels, eccentric side branches emerge. To his surprise he found that lab-grown snowflakes don’t actually grow along the glass surface that they are placed on. Instead they sprout more like mushrooms with microscopic nubs that support flat pedestals of ice. His synthetic snowflakes can take between 15 minutes and an hour to grow.
20年来，利布雷希特博士在阳光灿烂、极少下雪的加利福尼亚州帕萨迪纳利(Pasadena)用实验室里的冷却装置和蓝宝石玻璃培植雪花。直到去年8月，他才想出制作完全相同雪花的方法。通过调节温度和湿度，他能控制雪花的样式，创造出各种图案。他用专门拍摄微小雪晶的显微照相镜头拍摄那些雪花。在零下10摄氏度，他能制造出扁平的冰冻雪花。在零下2摄氏度，他能制造出三角形雪晶。如果在较高的湿度下培植雪晶，会出现偏心的侧枝。他还意外地发现，实验室培植的雪花并不是沿着它们所在的玻璃表面生长，而是像蘑菇那样萌生出微小的小块，以支撑扁平的冰基座。他的人造雪花需要15分钟至1小时生长。
“We haven’t violated any laws of physics,” he said of his “identical twins.” “We just found a loophole.”
提到这些“同卵双胞胎”，他说，“我们没有违反任何物理定律。我们只是发现了一个漏洞。”
You can see more of Dr. Libbrecht’s snowflakes on his website and in his latest book, “The Snowflake: Winter’s Frozen Artistry.” 
你能在利布雷希特博士的网站和他最新出版的图书《雪花：冬天的冰冻艺术》(The Snowflake: Winter’s Frozen Artistry)中看到他制作的更多雪花。