LONDON — Faith in the European Union is reviving in Europe, even as parties that are skeptical of the bloc threaten to divide and polarize the Continent, according to a new survey by the Pew Research Center.
伦敦——皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)的最新调查显示，欧洲民众对欧盟的信心正在重燃，虽然与此同时，对欧盟持怀疑态度的政党仍在威胁要分裂和分化这块大陆。
Across Europe, parties outside the political mainstream on the far left and far right have made strong inroads in recent months, variously portraying the European Union as a bureaucratic behemoth that embodies untrammeled markets, is too welcoming of illegal immigrants and threatens the sovereignty of its member states.
最近几个月，在欧洲各地，政治主流以外的极左翼和极右翼政党大有斩获，它们以不同方式把欧盟描述成庞大的官僚怪物，是肆无忌惮的市场的化身，它对非法移民过于友善，且威胁着成员国的主权。
The survey, released on Tuesday, found that more than half of the respondents in four of Europe’s six biggest economies viewed euroskeptic parties, which are highly critical of the bloc, as a “good thing” for their country. Buffeted by economic crisis and angry at fiscal austerity policies, voters in Britain, Spain, and Italy, among others, are turning to parties outside the political mainstream, the survey found.
周二公布的调查结果发现，在欧洲六大经济体中，有四个国家的超过一半的受访者认为，对欧盟持批评态度的政党对本国来说是“一件好事”。调查发现，由于受到经济危机的打击，以及对财政紧缩政策的不满，英国、西班牙、意大利等国的选民正把目光投向政治主流之外的政党。
Still, in Britain, which will hold a referendum by 2017 on whether to stay in the European Union, a majority of those surveyed said they wanted their country to continue its membership.
不过在英国，大部分被调查者仍然希望留在欧盟。英国在2017年将举行一次关于是否留在欧盟的公投。
Bruce Stokes, the director of global economic attitudes at Pew, who oversaw the study, said that the popularity of protest or nontraditional parties despite a gradually improving economy reflected deep-seated dissatisfaction with the status quo and traditional political parties.
皮尤研究中心国际经济态度主任布鲁斯·斯托克斯(Bruce Stokes)说，尽管经济逐渐改善，抗议政党或非传统政党仍然受到广泛欢迎，这反映出人们对现状和传统政党的深切不满。
“We were surprised by the level of frustration among citizens that these parties have failed them,” he said. “If there is difficult economic shock to the system in Europe going forward, the survey suggests that there is space for these parties to grow.”
“民众对这些政党的失望程度之深让我们感到惊讶，”他说。“调查显示，如果未来欧洲体系遭遇经济上的严重冲击，这些政党还有成长的空间，”他说。
The center surveyed 6,028 people by phone and face to face from April 7 to May 13 in six European Union countries: France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Spain and Britain. The countries, which include Europe’s biggest economies, make up 70 percent of the European Union’s population and 74 percent of its gross domestic product. The margin of error of the survey was three to four percentage points.
从4月7日到5月13日，皮尤研究中心通过电话和面对面的交谈对6028人进行了调查。被调查者来自六个欧盟国家：法国、德国、意大利、波兰、西班牙和英国。这些国家中包括欧洲的几个最大经济体，覆盖了欧盟70%的人口和74%的GDP。调查的误差是三到四个百分点。
In Britain, where the anti-immigration U.K. Independence Party won 13 percent of the vote in May’s parliamentary election (but only one seat in Parliament), 66 percent of those surveyed said the rise of the party was good for the country. In Spain, 70 percent of those surveyed said the ascent of Podemos, a leftist movement that has railed against austerity measures, was beneficial to the country. France, however, was an exception, with a majority of those surveyed saying the rise of the far-right National Front was a “bad thing,” even as economic stagnation has helped improve that party’s electoral fortunes.
在英国，反对移民的英国独立党(UK Independence Party)在5月的议会选举中赢得了13%的选票（但只获得了一个议会席位）。英国66%的被调查者表示，该党的崛起对国家有益。在西班牙，70%的被调查者表示，痛斥紧缩措施的左翼政党“我们可以党”(Podemos)的出现对国家有益。然而，法国是个例外，法国的多数被调查者认为，极右翼的政党国民阵线(National Front)的崛起是一件“坏事”，虽然与此同时，经济停滞已经帮助改善了该党的竞选前景。
Nevertheless, the survey found that skepticism toward the union, which has intensified as national economies have struggled, had bottomed out, and that a more resilient European economy was helping to restore faith in the bloc. That was particularly the case in Spain, Poland and Italy, the survey said, where perceptions that the economic situation is improving was translating into a favorable view of the union.
不过，调查发现，人们对欧盟的怀疑情绪——曾因为国民经济陷入困境而日益加剧——已经触底，日益强劲的欧洲经济将有助于让人们对欧盟恢复信心。调查表示，在西班牙、波兰和意大利尤其如此。在这几个国家，由于人们感觉经济状况正在好转，所以对欧盟的态度也开始改善。
The survey found that a majority of Britons believed that European integration had been good for the economy, with 55 percent saying they wanted to remain in the bloc. That is good news for proponents of Britain’s continued membership of the European Union. Prime Minister David Cameron has said he wants Britain to remain in the union, although he also wants to renegotiate some of the terms of Britain’s membership. He faces an uphill struggle to convince skeptics, including those in his Conservative Party, who argue that Brussels is encroaching on national sovereignty.
调查发现，大多数英国人认为欧洲一体化对经济有益，其中55%的人都表示希望留在欧盟。这对于支持英国继续留在欧盟的人而言是个好消息。英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)曾表示，他希望英国留在欧盟，但他也想就英国成员国身份的一些条款重新进行谈判。对于说服怀疑者，他面临着巨大的挑战，其中包括他的保守党(Conservative Party)中的一些人。这些人认为布鲁塞尔正在侵蚀国家主权。
Mr. Stokes said the survey showed that a majority of young people in Britain backed European membership, suggesting that Mr. Cameron will have to persuade young people to vote if he wants the referendum to swing in favor of maintaining membership.
斯托克斯称，调查表明，英国的大多数年轻人都支持留在欧盟，这说明如果卡梅伦希望公投结果有利于保持成员国身份，就必须说服年轻人前去投票。
Despite fears among the champions of the euro that economic hard times — and the prospect of Greece abandoning the single currency — could dent support for the euro, the survey also showed that a strong majority in Europe’s biggest economies still embraced the single currency. Only one year ago in Italy, fewer than half of respondents wanted to keep the euro; now 56 percent back it, the survey said, and roughly 70 percent in Germany, Spain and France want to keep the euro.
尽管欧元支持者担心经济困境——以及希腊弃用欧元的可能性——会降低人们对欧元的支持程度，但前述调查还表明，在欧洲最大的一些经济体中，大部分人仍然支持欧元。仅仅一年前，意大利只有不到一半的受访者希望保留欧元；而调查显示，如今56%的人都对欧元持支持态度，而且德国、西班牙和法国大约70%的人都希望保留欧元。
The deadly terrorist attacks in January in and around Paris raised concerns that an already simmering anti-Muslim backlash could intensify in France and beyond, but the survey found that Muslims and Jews are generally viewed positively, although the Roma are viewed with suspicion.
今年1月发生在巴黎市区和周边的的恶性恐怖袭击促使人们担心，法国和其他地方已经比较强烈的反穆斯林情绪将会激化；然而，此次调查发现，人们普遍对穆斯林和犹太人持正面态度，不过对罗姆人(Roma)却心存疑虑。
Nearly 80 percent of those surveyed had a favorable opinion of Jews, with the highest proportion of positive views in France and the lowest in Poland. About 61 percent had a favorable view of Muslims, with the highest rate being in France, which is home to Europe’s largest population of both Jews and Muslims.
将近80%的受访者都对犹太人持正面态度，其中法国持正面态度者所占比例最高，波兰最低。大约61%的人对穆斯林持正面态度，其中持正面态度者所占比例最高的也是法国。欧洲最大的犹太和穆斯林群体都在法国。