GENEVA — Top Russian athletes, including Olympians and winners of prestigious events like the Chicago marathon, have for years participated in a systematic doping program that involved some of Russia’s sports officials, the World Anti-Doping Agency said on Monday.
日内瓦——世界反兴奋剂组织周一表示，包括奥运会奖牌获得者、以及在芝加哥马拉松赛等赫赫有名的比赛中获胜者在内的俄罗斯顶级运动员，多年来参与系统性地使用兴奋剂，俄罗斯的一些体育官员也涉及其中。
The agency released a lengthy report here that described a pervasive doping culture among Russia’s sports programs, evoking notorious drug regimes like the state-run doping system of East Germany. The report recommends that Russia be suspended from competition.
该机构在日内瓦发布长篇报告，描述了俄罗斯体育项目中普遍存在的兴奋剂文化，让人想起东德国家运作的臭名昭著的使用兴奋剂体制。报告建议，暂停俄罗斯参加比赛的资格。
The report implicated athletes, coaches, trainers, doctors and various Russian institutions, including the country’s anti-doping agency and an accredited laboratory in Moscow that handled testing for the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi.
受报告牵连的包括运动员、教练员、训练员、医生，以及包括俄罗斯反兴奋剂组织在内的一些国家机构，还包括莫斯科的一个得到官方认可的实验室，该实验室曾负责2014年索契冬季奥运会的兴奋剂检测工作。
The group that produced the report has “turned over considerable data and information to Interpol that tends to demonstrate criminal conduct,” the report said.
报告的制作组织已将“大量数据和趋于证明犯罪行为的信息交给了国际刑警组织，”报告说。
Russian athletes, in soaring numbers, have been caught doping in recent years. Russia had far more drug violations than any other country in 2013: 225, or 12 percent of all violations globally, according to data from the World Anti-Doping Agency. About a fifth of Russia’s infractions involved track and field athletes, the focus of Monday’s report.
越来越多的俄罗斯运动员近年来被发现使用兴奋剂。俄罗斯2013年的兴奋剂违规情况比任何其他国家都多：共计225人次，占全球所有违规行为的12％，据世界反兴奋剂组织的数据。约20%的俄罗斯违规情况涉及田径运动员，这是周一报告的重点。
“This level of corruption attacks sport at its core,” Richard H. McLaren, a Canadian lawyer and co-author of the report, said in an interview on Sunday. In contrast to corporate governance scandals like those currently roiling world soccer, he said, drug use by athletes has distorted the essence of professional games. “Bribes and payoffs don’t change actual sporting events,” Mr. McLaren said. “But doping takes away fair competition and an equal playing field.”
“腐败的程度给运动的核心造成损害，”报告作者之一、加拿大律师理查德·H·麦克拉伦(Richard H. McLaren)周日接受采访时说。他说，与像目前动荡世界足坛的法人团体治理丑闻不同，运动员使用兴奋剂的问题扭曲了专业运动的精神。麦克拉伦说，“受贿和回扣并不改变体育比赛的实质，但是，兴奋剂的使用剥夺了公平竞赛、以及平等竞争的环境。”
The report was the result of a 10-month investigation by an independent commission of the World Anti-Doping Agency. Its inquiry stemmed from a December 2014 documentary by the German public broadcaster ARD, which drew on accounts from Russian athletes, coaches and anti-doping authorities, who said that the government had helped procure drugs for athletes and cover up positive test results.
这份报告是世界反兴奋剂机构(World Anti-Doping Agency)的一个独立委员会10个月的调查结果。调查是2014年12月德国公共广播公司ARD播放的一部纪录片引发的，纪录片中有来自俄罗斯运动员、教练员，以及反兴奋剂组织的描述，他们称政府曾帮助运动员采购兴奋剂，政府还隐瞒了阳性检测结果。
Further allegations emerged in August, when ARD and the Sunday Times of London released another report more broadly focused on the leaked results of thousands of international athletes’ blood tests dating to 2001, showing decorated athletes in good standing with suspicious drug tests. Those allegations are also being investigated by the independent commission, but the results were not included in Monday’s report, as the inquiry is ongoing, the agency said.
更多的指控出现在今年8月，ARD和伦敦《星期日泰晤士报》(The Sunday Times)公布了另一份报告，其所涉及的范围更广，报告用泄露出来的、可追溯至2001年的上千份国际运动员的血液化验结果显示，被认为没有问题的获奖运动员有可疑的兴奋剂检测结果。上述独立委员会也在调查这些新指控，不过调查结果并没有包括在周一的报告中，因为调查仍在进行中，该组织表示。
The three-person commission, chaired by Dick Pound, a Canadian lawyer and founding president of the World Anti-Doping Agency, also included Mr. McLaren, who teaches law at Western University in Ontario, and Günter Younger, head of cybercrime with the Bavarian Landeskriminalamt, a regional division of the German criminal police.
独立调查委员会由三人组成，世界反兴奋剂组织创始主席、加拿大律师迪克·庞德(Dick Pound)任主任，委员包括在安大略省的西部大学(Western University)教授法律的麦克拉伦，以及德国联邦刑事调查局(Landeskriminalamt)巴伐利亚分局网络犯罪部负责人君特·永格(Günter Younger)。
Criminal proceedings may come in the wake of Monday’s report, and some investigations have already begun based on the evidence collected by the panel. Last week, French authorities announced they had opened a criminal inquiry into the former president of track and field’s world governing body, Lamine Diack of Senegal, for having allegedly accepted bribes to allow at least six Russian athletes to compete, including in the 2012 London Olympics.
周一报告发布之后可能会有刑事诉讼，基于调查委员会采集的证据的调查已经开始。上周，法国当局宣布，他们已对国际田联前主席、塞内加尔人拉米·迪亚克(Lamine Diack)展开刑事调查，他涉嫌为允许至少六名俄罗斯运动员参加包括2012年伦敦奥运会比赛而收受贿赂。
Dr. Gabriel Dollé, the former director of the medical and anti-doping division of the governing body, is also under investigation, French authorities said, along with Mr. Diack’s legal counsel.
法国当局说，世界田联医学和反兴奋剂部门的前主任加布里埃尔·多莱博士(Dr. Gabriel Dollé)也与迪亚克的法律顾问一起在接受调查。
The Russian Ministry of Sport did not respond to a request for immediate comment. Days before Monday’s report was published, the country’s athletics federation suspended five athletes, including a noted distance runner, Maria Konovalova.
俄罗斯体育部未回应请尽快置评的要求。周一报告发布的前几天，俄罗斯运动员协会对5名运动员宣布禁赛，其中包括著名长跑运动员玛丽亚·科诺瓦洛娃(Maria Konovalova)。
“The Russians themselves have said there are vestiges of the old Soviet system, old-guard coaches who haven’t changed and can’t change,” Mr. McLaren said. “The minister of sport says their way of operating is over. But read our report.”
“俄罗斯人自己也表示，旧苏联体制的痕迹尚未消除，那些旧习未改的保守派教练们也不会改变他们的做法，”麦克拉伦说。“俄罗斯体育部长说，那种工作方式已经结束。但是，请看看我们的报告吧。”
Russia has had a particularly prominent place in the international sports spotlight in recent years, hosting the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi in 2014 and the track and field world championship in Moscow the year before. The country is due to host the next World Cup, in 2018, though Swiss authorities are investigating allegations that it may have secured the tournament through under-the-table agreements.
俄罗斯近年来在国际体坛有特别突出的地位，举办了2014年的索契冬季奥运会，还于2013年在莫斯科举办了世界田径锦标赛。俄罗斯也将在2018年举办下届世界杯足球赛，虽然瑞士当局正在调查有关俄国可能是通过暗中协议获得举办权的指控。