LONDON — In the telling of some American officials, the C.I.A. drone campaign in Pakistan has been a triumph with few downsides: In more than 300 missile attacks there since 2008, dozens of Qaeda and Taliban leaders have been killed, and the pace of the strikes, which officials frequently describe as “surgical” and “contained,” has dropped sharply over the past year.
伦敦——在一些美国官员的表述中，中情局(CIA)在巴基斯坦的无人机行动是成功的，几乎没有缺点：在2008年以来的300多次导弹袭击中，数十名基地组织(Al Qaeda)和塔利班(Taliban)领导人被击毙，而且过去一年里，袭击频率已大幅下降。官员们常常说这些袭击是“精确的”、“有限的”。
But viewed from Miram Shah, the frontier Pakistani town that has become a virtual test laboratory for drone warfare, the campaign has not been the antiseptic salve portrayed in Washington. In interviews over the past year, residents paint a portrait of extended terror and strain within a tribal society caught between vicious militants and the American drones hunting them.
但从巴基斯坦边陲小镇米兰沙赫来看，这一行动并非像华盛顿描述的那么令人欣慰。这个小镇实际上已经成了无人机战斗的检验实验室。在过去一年的采访中，居民们描述称，在这个部族社会里，恐惧和紧张情绪都在加剧。他们处在残暴的武装分子和追杀他们的美国无人机之间的夹缝中。
“The drones are like the angels of death,” said Nazeer Gul, a shopkeeper in Miram Shah. “Only they know when and where they will strike.”
“无人机就像死神一样，”米兰沙赫的店主纳齐尔·古尔(Nazeer Gul)说，“只有它们自己知道会在何时何地发动袭击。”
Their claims of distress are now being backed by a new Amnesty International investigation that found, among other points, that at least 19 civilians in the surrounding area of North Waziristan had been killed in just two of the drone attacks since January 2012 — a time when the Obama administration has held that strikes have been increasingly accurate and free of mistakes.
如今，小镇居民的悲惨叙述得到了国际特赦组织(Amnesty International)一项最新调查的支持。该调查查明的情况包括，在2012年1月以来的两次无人机袭击中，北瓦济利斯坦周边地区至少有19名平民死亡。而奥巴马政府则表示，在这段时间里，无人机袭击越来越精确，失误越来越少。
The study is to be officially released on Tuesday along with a separate Human Rights Watch report on American drone strikes in Yemen, as the issue is again surfacing on other fronts. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, a vocal critic of the drone campaign, is to meet with President Obama in the White House. And on Friday, the drone debate is scheduled to spill onto the floor of the United Nations, whose officials have recently published reports that attacked America’s lack of transparency over drones.
该研究将于周二正式发布。随着无人机袭击问题再次在其他地区浮现出来，一同发布的还有人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)一份有关美国在也门的无人机袭击的报告。周三，直言不讳批评无人机行动的巴基斯坦总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)将在白宫同奥巴马总统举行会面。按计划，联合国将在周五就无人机行动进行讨论。近来，联合国官员发布了多份报告，指责美国在无人机行动上缺乏透明度。
But nowhere has the issue played out more directly than in Miram Shah, in northwestern Pakistan. It has become a fearful and paranoid town, dealt at least 13 drone strikes since 2008, with an additional 25 in adjoining districts — more than any other urban settlement in the world.
但没有哪个地方能比巴基斯坦西北部的米兰沙赫更直接地展现了这个问题。这里已经变成了一个令人心生恐惧和偏执的小镇。自2008年以来，小镇遭受了至少13次无人机袭击，邻近地区经历了另外25次袭击，是世界上遭受无人机袭击次数最多的城市地区。
Even when the missiles do not strike, buzzing drones hover day and night, scanning the alleys and markets with roving high-resolution cameras.
即使不发射导弹进行袭击，嗡嗡作响的无人机也会不分昼夜地盘旋在小镇上空，用多角度高分辨率摄像头仔细观察街道和集市。
That is because their potential quarry is everywhere in Miram Shah — Islamist fighters with long hair, basketball shoes and AK-47 rifles who roam the streets, fraternize in restaurants and, in some cases, even direct traffic in the central bazaar. The men come from an array of militant groups that take shelter in Waziristan and nearby, including Al Qaeda and the Afghan and Pakistani Taliban.
这是因为，它们潜在的猎物遍布米兰沙赫：留着长发、脚穿篮球鞋、携带AK-47步枪的伊斯兰派武装分子。他们会在街上闲逛，在餐馆里会朋友，在某些情况下，他们甚至还会在中央集市指挥交通。这些人来自不同的武装组织。这些藏匿在瓦济利斯坦和附近地区的武装组织包括基地组织、阿富汗的塔利班组织和巴基斯坦的塔利班组织。
Unusually for the overall American drone campaign, the strikes in the area mostly occur in densely populated neighborhoods. The drones have hit a bakery, a disused girls’ school and a money changers’ market, residents say. One strike occurred in Matches Colony, a neighborhood named after an abandoned match factory that is now frequented by Uzbek militants.
与美国整个无人机行动不同的是，该地区的袭击通常都发生在人口密集的社区。居民们说，无人机袭击了一家面包店、一所废弃的女子学校和一个货币兑换市场。一次袭击发生在“火柴社区”，这里是以一家废弃火柴厂命名的。如今，乌兹别克武装分子时常出入那家火柴厂。
While the strike rate has dropped drastically in recent months, the constant presence of circling drones — and accompanying tension over when, or whom, they will strike — is a crushing psychological burden for many residents.
尽管近几个月来，袭击频率已显著下降，但不断有无人机盘旋在上空，而由此引发的对它们将在何时及对谁发动袭击的紧张感，给许多居民带来了沉重的心理负担。
Sales of sleeping tablets, antidepressants and medicine to treat anxiety have soared, said Hajji Gulab Jan Dawar, a pharmacist in the town bazaar. Women were particularly troubled, he said, but men also experienced problems. “We sell them this,” he said, producing a packet of pills that purported to treat erectile dysfunction under the brand name Rocket.
小镇集市上的药剂师哈吉·古拉卜·贾恩·达瓦尔(Hajji Gulab Jan Dawar)说，安眠药、抗抑郁药和治疗焦虑的药品的销量剧增。他说，女性尤其深受困扰，不过男性也面临着问题。“我们卖给他们这个，”他一边说，一边拿出一袋火箭牌(Rocket)药片，那些药片据称是用于治疗勃起功能障碍的。
Despite everything, a semblance of normal life continues in Miram Shah. On market day, farmers herding goats and carrying vegetables stream in from the surrounding countryside. The bustling bazaar has clothes and food and gun shops.
尽管如此，表面上米兰沙赫的正常生活还在继续。逢集时，赶着羊群、载着蔬菜的农民会从周边农村涌入米兰沙赫。熙熙攘攘的集市上有服装店、食品店和枪械店。
Communication, however, is difficult. The army disabled the cellphone networks, so residents scramble to higher ground to capture stray signals from Afghan networks. And Internet cafes were shut, on orders from the Taliban, after complaints that young men were watching pornography and racy movies.
然而，和彼此联系很困难。军队毁坏了手机网络，因此居民们必须爬到地势较高的地方，捕捉来自阿富汗手机网络的零星信号。在有人抱怨年轻人观看有伤风化的色情电影后，网吧也被塔利班下令关闭了。
That ban distressed families that use the Internet to communicate with relatives working in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and across the Persian Gulf states. Emigrant remittances are a cornerstone of the local economy.
这项禁令让那些用互联网与在迪拜、阿拉伯联合酋长国和波斯湾各国工作的亲人联系的家庭很苦恼。移民的汇款是当地经济的支柱。
On the edge of town, where buildings melt into low, tree-studded hills, young boys play soccer on the banks of the Tochi River. As in so many other countries, some youngsters wear the jersey of the English soccer club Manchester United.
小镇边上，房屋与树木林立的小山丘融为了一体，小男孩们在托奇河岸边踢足球。和其他许多国家一样，一些孩子穿着英国足球俱乐部曼联(Manchester United)的球服。
But the veneer of normality is easily, and frequently, shattered. Every week the streets empty for a day as army supply trucks rumble through. The curfew is strictly enforced: several children and mentally ill residents who have strayed outside have been shot dead, several residents said.
但正常状态的表象经常被轻易打破。街道上每周都有一天空无一人，只有运送军方物资的卡车隆隆驶过。宵禁被严格执行：几名居民说，已经有几名儿童和精神病人因为在夜晚走到外边被枪打死。
In the aftermath of drone strikes, things get worse. Many civilians hide at home, fearing masked vigilantes with the Ittehad-e-Mujahedeen Khorasan, a militant enforcement unit that hunts for American spies. The unit casts a wide net, and the suspects it hauls in are usually tortured and summarily executed.
在无人机空袭之后，形势更糟糕了。许多平民躲在家里，因为他们害怕呼罗珊圣战联合会(Ittehad-e-MujahedeenKhorasan)的蒙面警戒行动者。呼罗珊圣战联合会是专门抓捕美国间谍的激进执法组织。该组织设下大网，对抓到的嫌犯在严刑拷打之后就地处决。
Journalists face particular risks. In February, gunmen killed Malik Mumtaz Khan, the president of the local press club. Some blame Pakistani spies, while others say the Taliban are responsible.
记者们尤其面临风险。今年2月，持枪者杀死了当地记者俱乐部的主席马利克·蒙塔兹汗(Malik Mumtaz Khan)。有人认为是巴基斯坦的间谍干的，另外一些人则认为是塔利班。
Meanwhile state services have virtually collapsed. At the local hospital, corrupt officials are reselling supplies of medicine and fuel in the town market, doctors said. At the government high school, pupils are paying bribes to cheat in public exams — and threatening teachers with Taliban reprisals if they resist, one teacher said.
与此同时，公共服务已经基本崩溃。医生们说，当地医院的腐败官员正在城里的市场上转售医疗物资和燃料。在公立的高中，学生们为了在考试中作弊而行贿——一名老师说，如果他们拒绝，学生们就会以塔利班的报复行动威胁老师。
The collapse has created business opportunities for Taliban spouses: one commander’s wife is a gynecologist, while an Uzbek woman works as a homeopath, the pharmacist said.
公共服务的崩溃为塔利班的配偶们制造了商机：药剂师说，一名指挥官的妻子是妇科医生，而一名乌兹别克的妇女现在正在这里担任顺势疗法医生。
For some residents, the only option is to leave. Hajji, a 50-year-old businessman, moved his family to the port city of Karachi in 2011. His family was scared by militant pamphlets that threatened to execute American spies, he said, and the militants prevented his children from obtaining polio vaccinations.
对于一些居民来说，唯一的选择是离开。50岁的商人哈吉(Hajji)2011年把家人转移到了港口城市卡拉奇。他说，他的家人被激进分子威胁要处决美国间谍的小册子吓到了，这些激进分子禁止他的孩子们接种小儿麻痹疫苗。
“They think vaccinators are spies who are looking for militant hide-outs,” he said during an interview in Karachi, agreeing to be identified only by part of his name.
他在卡拉奇接受采访时说，他们认为，接种员是搜寻武装分子藏身之所的间谍。他只同意我们在报道中提到其姓名的一部分。
For a number of outraged Pakistani officials, the drone debate has centered on claims of civilian casualties, despite American assurances that they have been few. In defending the drone strikes, which have sharply decreased this year, American officials note that the operations have killed many dangerous militants. One major militant killed this year was the Pakistani Taliban deputy, Wali ur-Rehman. He was killed at Chashma village, just outside Miram Shah, in May.
对于一些愤怒的巴基斯坦官员，有关无人机的争论一直围绕平民的死亡人数展开，虽然美国人坚称很少有平民死亡。而无人机袭击的频率今年已经大幅下降。在为无人机袭击辩护时，美国官员指出，这些行动已经除掉了许多危险的激进分子。今年杀死的一个主要的激进分子是巴基斯坦的塔利班二号头目瓦里·乌尔-拉赫曼(Wali ur-Rehman)。他于5月在恰希玛村被杀死，地点就在米兰沙赫城外。
Still, in a speech announcing changes to the drone program in May, Mr. Obama admitted that mistakes had been made. Civilian deaths from drone strikes will haunt him, and others in the American chain of command, for “as long as we live,” he said.
尽管如此，在5月份宣布无人机计划变动的演讲中，奥巴马承认犯过错误。他说，无人机袭击致死的平民会让他和其他美国官员“终生”内心不安。
He added, “There must be near-certainty that no civilians will be killed or injured.”
他补充说，“必须要几近确保不再有平民死亡或受伤情况。”
But the new Amnesty International report, which examines the 45 known strikes in North Waziristan between January 2012 and August 2013, asserts that in several cases drones killed civilians indiscriminately.
但是国际特赦组织的最新报告研究了2012年1月到2013年8月在北瓦济里斯坦的45次已知空袭。报告证实，在几个案例中，无人机肆意发起攻击，导致平民丧生。
Last October, it says, American missiles killed a 68-year-old woman named Mamana Bibi as she picked vegetables in a field close to her grandchildren. In July 2012, 18 laborers, including a 14-year-old boy, were killed near the Afghan border.
报告说，去年10月，美国的导弹炸死了68岁的妇女马马纳·比比(Mamana Bibi)，当时她正在田里收菜，这块地离她的几个孙子很近。2012年7月，18名劳工，其中包括一名14岁的男孩，在阿富汗边境附近被杀死。
Ms. Bibi’s son, Rafiq ur-Rehman, and two of her injured grandchildren are due to travel to the United States next week to speak about their experiences.
比比的儿子拉菲克·乌尔-拉赫曼(Rafiq ur-Rehman)和她的两个受伤的孙子定于下星期去美国讲述他们的遭遇。
“The killing of Mamana Bibi appears to be a clear case of extrajudicial execution,” said Mustafa Qadri, the report’s author, in an interview. “It is extremely difficult to see how she could have been mistaken for a militant, let alone an imminent threat to the U.S.”
报告的作者穆斯塔法·卡德里(Mustafa Qadri)在接受采访时说，杀死马马纳·比比之举看起来是一个非法处决的明显实例。要把她误认为是一个军事人员简直太难了，她更不可能是对美国的直接威胁。