DÜSSELDORF, Germany — As aviation experts in the French Alps piece together the shattered fragments of the Germanwings jetliner that crashed there on Tuesday, investigators here are engaged in a task that is at least as challenging: trying to understand what drove Andreas Lubitz, who was at the controls, to the apparent decision to fly the plane into a mountainside.
德国杜塞尔多夫——周二，德国之翼(Germanwings)的一架喷气客机在法国阿尔卑斯山区坠毁。正当法国的航空专家拼凑飞机碎片时，这里的调查人员开展的任务也一样具有挑战性：尝试理解事发时控制飞机的安德烈亚斯·卢比茨(Andreas Lubitz)似乎决定驾机撞向山坡的动机是什么。
In what amounts to one of the most high-profile cases to date of forensic psychiatry, French and German investigators must not only piece together the strands of Mr. Lubitz’s professional and personal lives, they must also try to determine what was going on inside his head before and during the fateful flight on Tuesday.
在堪称迄今为止最引人注目的法医精神病学案例中，法德两国的调查人员不仅必须将卢比茨的职业生涯和个人生活脉络拼凑在一起，还必须尝试探究，在周二决定生死的那次飞行之前，以及在飞行期间，他脑子里在想什么。
Five days after the crash, the investigators have three main lines of inquiry: his apparent depression; a problem with his eyesight that might have compromised his ability to continue flying; and his personal relationships, including one with his longtime girlfriend. His personal writings, found at the scene, suggested a confused young man who feared failure and was scared he was going to lose his job because of his vision and mental health problems, an official said.
坠机事件发生五天后，调查人员面前有三条主线：他似乎患有抑郁症；他的视力问题可能影响了飞行能力；他的人际关系，包括与长期交往的女友之间的关系。一名官员称，现场发现的他本人写下的东西表明，他是一个充满困惑的年轻人，害怕失败，害怕会因为视力和心理健康问题而失去工作。
How those elements fit together — and the relative weight each should be assigned — would be hard to determine under the best circumstances. In this case, it is not clear that it will ever be settled with any great degree of confidence, no doubt frustrating those who want answers, including the families of victims and regulators seeking to ensure it does not happen again.
这些因素是如何共同起作用的，以及应该分别赋予它们多大权重，即使是在最顺利的情况下也难以确定。在本案中，尚不清楚事件的发展能否以较高的可信度得到还原。这无疑会让那些希望得到答案的人失望，包括遇难者的家人，以及寻求让此类事件不再发生的监管机关。
“In a judicial investigation there are several working hypotheses, and you never discard all of the other hypotheses in one go, in order to give priority to just one of them,” Jean-Pierre Michel, the chief French investigator and deputy head of the judicial police for the French Gendarmerie, said at a news conference here Saturday. “Of course, you have to be able to prioritize these different investigations to give yourself the maximum chances of solving the investigation as quickly as possible.”
“在司法调查中，会有好几种说得通的假设，绝不能因为优先考虑其中一个，就一下放弃其他所有假设，”法国方面的调查负责人、法国国家宪兵队(French National Gendarmerie)负责司法警察事务的副总监让-皮埃尔·米歇尔(Jean-Pierre Michel)在周六的一场新闻发布会上说。“当然，要能区分不同调查方向的轻重缓急，从而以最大的可能性，尽可能快地完成调查。”
As many as 200 German law enforcement officials have been working on the case, a spokesman for the Düsseldorf police said Sunday. He added that no updates were expected from prosecutors before Monday at the earliest.
杜塞尔多夫的警方发言人周日说，参与此案的德国执法官员多达200名。他接着表示，预计最早要到周一，才会从检方得到最新消息。
They have learned thus far Mr. Lubitz, the co-pilot on the flight, was dealing with psychological problems serious enough to require medication, sources with knowledge of the investigation said, which may have dogged him for many years. Antidepressants were found during the search of his apartment, as were notes from multiple doctors, one of which was torn up and thrown in a wastebasket.
了解调查情况的消息人士称，截至目前，他们了解到的情况是，航班副驾驶卢比茨有心理问题，程度严重到需要接受药物治疗。这个问题可能已经困扰了他很多年。在搜查他的公寓时，调查人员发现了抗抑郁药物，以及多名医生开具的证明，其中一张被撕毁扔进了废纸篓。
Investigators also discovered that Mr. Lubitz was having trouble with his eyesight, either as a psychosomatic symptom related to his mental-health issues or as a separate physical malady that could have depressed his mood further. The young man’s identity was tied to his dream of becoming a pilot from an early age, at least since he began flying gliders as a 14-year-old.
调查人员还发现，卢比茨的视力也有问题。他的视力问题要么是心因性症状，与其心理健康问题有关，要么是单独的生理疾病，后一种情况也可能进一步加剧了他的抑郁情绪。这个年轻人的自我认同与年少时燃起的梦想紧紧绑定在一起，他至少从14岁开始驾驶滑翔机时，就想成为一名飞行员了。
To acquaintances and colleagues, Mr. Lubitz was personally polite and professionally accomplished, a co-pilot crisscrossing Europe for Germanwings, a loyal son who spent much of his time in his hometown Montabaur with his parents, and the long-term boyfriend of a woman he had known since before entering pilot training. In the last few weeks he had purchased two new cars, according to German news reports, presumably one for him and one for her.
在熟人和同事看来，卢比茨待人彬彬有礼，在专业上也颇为精通，在德国之翼担任副驾驶，执飞往来欧洲各地的航班。同时卢比茨也是一个孝顺的儿子，大量时间都在家乡蒙塔鲍尔和父母一起度过。卢比茨还有一个长期交往的女朋友，在开始接受飞行员培训之前二人就相识了。德国的新闻报道称，他在最近几周买了两辆新车，很可能一辆是给自己，另一辆是给女朋友的。
“He was a colleague like every other,” Frank Woiton, a fellow pilot for Germanwings, told German television after the plane crash. “We sat together in the cockpit. We talked about his plans for the future. He said he wanted to fly long haul flights. He was not someone who said, ‘I want to end my life.’”
“他是一个和其他所有人一样的同事，”飞机坠毁后德国之翼的飞行员弗兰克·沃伊顿(Frank Woiton)对德国电视台说。“我们曾经一起坐在驾驶舱里。我们谈论过他对未来的规划，他说他希望飞长途航班。他不是那种会说‘我想了结生命’的人。”
But his private papers indicated a fragile mental state. A high-ranking investigator, speaking with the newspaper Die Welt, characterized Mr. Lubitz’s writing as a window into the dark world of illness the co-pilot had skillfully concealed from outsiders.
但私人文件却显示，他的精神状态颇为脆弱。一名高级调查人员在接受德国《世界报》(Die Welt)采访时称，卢比茨巧妙地向外人隐瞒了自己的疾病，但这名副驾驶写下的文字就像一扇窗，可以通向晦暗的疾病世界。
There have also been reports, largely from anonymous sources, that his personal life had become complicated. Germany’s highest circulation newspaper, Bild, published an interview on Saturday with a flight attendant who also claimed to be his girlfriend. The woman, speaking under an assumed name, said that Mr. Lubitz was mentally unstable, screaming at night, at one point locking himself in a bathroom and complaining bitterly about how he was treated at his job.
也有报道称他的个人生活出了问题，这些报道援引的大都是匿名信源。德国发行量最大的报纸《图片报》(Bild)在周六刊登了一篇采访文章，受访者是一名自称是卢比茨女友的空乘。这名以化名接受采访的女子表示，卢比茨精神不稳定，会在夜里尖叫，一度将自己锁在洗手间，还会满腹牢骚地抱怨自己工作时的遭遇。
The woman said that he told her he would someday “do something that will change the entire system and everyone will know my name and remember it,” which she in retrospect interpreted as an oblique reference to crashing a plane, despite the fact that it was a broad comment open to wide interpretation.
这名女子表示，卢比茨告诉她，他有朝一日会“做一件改变整个系统的事情，让每个人都知道并记住我的名字”。她回顾这件事时解释道，这可能指的是驾机坠毁，不过这种宽泛的话语可以有多种解读。
In its Sunday edition the paper reported that his long-term girlfriend, who teaches math and English at a school in the state of North-Rhine Westphalia, was pregnant.
《图片报》周日版报道称，卢比茨长期交往的女朋友怀孕了。她在北莱茵-威斯特法伦州的一所学校教数学和英语。
The authorities close to the investigation said Friday they had already questioned the co-pilot’s girlfriend, whom they described as someone he had shared his life with for many years, including up to the day of the crash. The woman, who has not been formally identified, is believed to have shared a top-floor apartment with Mr. Lubitz in a residential Düsseldorf neighborhood surrounded by a forest where neighbors have reported that the avid jogger often went for runs.
接近调查进程的相关机构在周五表示，官方已经讯问了卢比茨的女朋友。官方称卢比茨与女朋友在一起生活多年，一直到事发当天。这名女性的身份目前还没有正式披露，据信，她跟卢比茨共同居住在杜塞尔多夫一个树林环绕的社区里的一所顶层公寓中。邻居们透露，喜欢慢跑的卢比茨经常到周围的树林里跑步。
Another question that has defied easy answers is whether Mr. Lubitz might have acted impulsively after being left alone in the cockpit or could have planned such a move in advance and waited for an opportunity. Nothing like a suicide note or other indication was found in his apartment to suggest premeditation.
另一个不容易解答的问题是，卢比茨独自待在驾驶舱时，是冲动行事，还是事先计划好要采取行动，并一直等待时机。调查人员没有在他的住所发现遗书或其他说明他早有预谋的迹象。
Bild also claimed to have quotes from the cockpit recording. During the flight when the captain asked his co-pilot to prepare for the landing, Mr. Lubitz replied “hopefully” and “we’ll see,” according to the newspaper. When the captain returned from a bathroom break he found the door to the cockpit locked. As the plane began to descend the pilot could be heard banging and yelling, “For God’s sake open the door.”
《图片报》还声称获得了驾驶舱录音的部分内容。该报称，机长在飞行期间要求副驾驶准备着陆时，卢比茨回答道“希望如此”、“我们看看”。当机长上完厕所返回驾驶舱时，发现驾驶舱门被锁住了。随着飞机开始下降，可以听到机长边砸门边大喊，“老天啊，把门打开。”
The passengers had begun to scream. Then metal clanging on the door was audible, followed by the automatic warning: “Terrain. Pull up. Pull up.”
乘客开始喊叫。可以听到驾驶舱门上的金属撞击声，接下来是自动报警声，“地面。拉升。拉升。”
At that point the pilot yelled, “Open the damned door.”
当时机长喊道，“把这该死的门给我打开。”
Martine del Bono, the spokeswoman for the French Bureau of Investigations and Analyses, which is charged with the technical inquiry into the crash separate from the French criminal probe, condemned the leaking of the transcripts of the voice recorder that have appeared in the German media.
德国媒体上公布录音的文字记录之后，法国调查与分析局(French Bureau of Investigations and Analysis)发言人马蒂娜·德尔博诺(Martine del Bono)对信息外泄一事表达了谴责。该机构负责对坠机事件进行技术性调查，不涉及刑事调查。
“We are shocked by these leaks, which constitute a complete lack of decency for the families of the victims,” Ms. del Bono said.
德尔博诺表示，“我们对录音遭泄露一事感到非常震惊，这完全是对遇难者家属的不尊重。”
Heinz Joachim Schöttes, a spokesman for Germanwings in Cologne, declined to discuss details of Mr. Lubitz’s past medical exams performed by Lufthansa’s medical services bureau, nor could he confirm German media reports that the co-pilot had been due to face his next annual medical exam in June. He said that all of Mr. Lubitz’s personnel and medical records held by the airline had been turned over to investigators.
德国之翼驻科隆的发言人海因茨·约阿希姆·舍特斯(Heinz Joachim Schöttes)拒绝透露汉莎航空(Lufthansa)医疗服务处过去对卢比茨开展的体检的细节，他也不愿证实德国媒体的报道，即副驾驶将于6月接受下一次年度体检。他表示，航空公司已经将他们掌握的卢比茨的所有个人及医疗记录移交给了调查人员。
Forensic experts in France are attempting to identify the remains of victims and have thus far isolated DNA from 78 different people found at the mountainous crash site, leaving 72 victims unaccounted for, the French prosecutor Brice Robin told the Agence France-Presse news agency on Sunday. He added that workers were building an access road to aid in the removal of larger pieces of the aircraft, work that could be completed by as soon as Monday night.
法国的法医专家正在努力辨认遇难者的遗体。到目前为止，一共在事发的山区采集到78个人的DNA，还有72名遇难者的遗体下落不明，法国检察官布里斯·罗班(Brice Robin)周日对法新社(Agence France-Presse)透露。他还表示，工人们正在打开通道，以帮助移除飞机的大块残骸，这项工作最早可以在周一晚间完成。
While investigators are focusing on the assumption that Mr. Lubitz crashed the plane on purpose, Mr. Michel, the chief French investigator, said, “We have no right today to rule out other hypotheses, including the mechanical hypotheses, as long as we haven’t proved that the plane had no problems.”
尽管调查人员目前关注的假设是，卢比茨蓄意驾机坠毁，但法国方面的调查负责人米歇尔表示，“只要我们还无法证明飞机不存在问题，现在就没有权利排除其他假设，包括有关机械故障的假设。”