BRUSSELS — The announcement by the Belgian authorities on Sunday that the attackers who set off bombs in Brussels on March 22 had initially planned to strike in France was a reminder that intelligence and police services are still learning about the full extent of the Islamic State’s plots and networks in Europe, and are struggling to keep up.
布鲁塞尔——比利时当局周日宣布，3月22日在布鲁塞尔引爆炸弹的袭击者，起初打算在法国发动恐怖袭击。这一消息提醒我们，情报部门和警方仍然有待全盘了解伊斯兰国(Islamic State)在欧洲的阴谋和网络，并在阻止该组织的脚步方面遇到困难。
As intelligence experts and officials took stock of what they have learned since the Nov. 13 assaults in and around Paris, which killed 130 people, several things have come into focus. The scale of the Islamic State’s operations in Europe are still not known, but they appear to be larger and more layered than investigators at first realized; if the Paris and Brussels attacks are any model, the plotters will rely on local criminal networks in addition to committed extremists.
去年11月13日，巴黎及其周边地区发生恐怖袭击，导致130人丧生。当情报专家和官员还在评估他们自那时起搜集到的信息时，又有一些事情成了焦点。目前尚不清楚伊斯兰国在欧洲的多个行动的规模，但它们似乎比侦查人员一开始了解到的更大，层级也更复杂；如果要从巴黎和布鲁塞尔的恐怖袭击中找出某种模式，那便是：除了依赖顽冥不化的极端主义者，策划者还会依赖当地的犯罪网络。
Even as the United States, its allies and Russia have killed leaders of the Islamic State, and have rolled back some of the extremist organization’s gains on the battlefields of Iraq and Syria, the Islamic State appears to be posing a largely hidden and lethal threat across much of Europe.
美国及其盟友与俄罗斯已经击毙了伊斯兰国的一些头目，并且已经在伊拉克和叙利亚的战场上夺回了被该极端主义组织占领的一些地区。与此同时，伊斯兰国似乎对欧洲的很多地方都构成了基本上不易察觉的致命威胁。
When Belgian prosecutors announced that Mohamed Abrini, one of the men arrested on Friday, had confessed to being the mysterious third man in the Brussels Airport bombing, it seemed to mark a victory. But it also underscored the monumental challenges that extend across borders, for Mr. Abrini was also a suspect in the Paris attacks.
比利时的检察官宣布，周五被捕的嫌疑人之一穆罕默德·阿布里尼(Mohamed Abrini)已经承认自己是在布鲁塞尔机场(Brussels Airport)引爆炸弹的神秘第三人。这个消息似乎是胜利的标志。但它也突显了跨越边境的巨大挑战，因为阿布里尼同时也是巴黎恐怖袭击案的嫌疑人。
There are almost certainly other cells that are active in non-French-speaking countries and that have not yet surfaced. Britain, Germany and Italy are thought to be high on the list of Islamic State targets.
几乎可以肯定，还有其他恐怖团伙活跃在不说法语的国家，而且尚未浮出水面。英国、德国和意大利被认为在伊斯兰国的袭击目标名单上居于前列。
It adds up to a long road ahead in Europe for law enforcement and intelligence agencies but also for citizens who are having to learn to adapt to an array of new security precautions, especially in public places.
对欧洲的执法和情报机构乃至普通公民而言，这让眼前的道路变得更加漫长。欧洲人必须学着适应一大串新实行的安全防范措施，在公共场合尤为如此。
“We are not finished yet with the job of finding everyone who is in this big network of Paris and Brussels,” said Jean-Charles Brisard, the head of the French Center for the Analysis of Terrorism in Paris. “Every time progress is made, we add another few people to the list of people we are looking for.”
“我们要找出这个潜藏在巴黎和布鲁塞尔的巨大网络中的每一个人，这项工作尚未完成，”法国恐怖主义分析中心(French Center for Analysis of Terrorism)负责人让-夏尔·布里萨尔(Jean-Charles Brisard)说。“每当取得一些进展，我们都会在寻人名单上再添几个名字。”