A survey of female factory workers in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou found that most had experienced sexual harassment from co-workers and that about one in six had quit their jobs to escape it, losing a substantial amount of money in wages.
一项在中国南方城市广州开展的调查显示，受访的工厂女工大多遭受过同事的性骚扰，约六分之一的人因此辞职，造成了不小的工资损失。
Not one woman who took part in the survey by a non-governmental organization, the Sunflower Women Workers Center, said she had sought help from the state-run All-China Federation of Trade Unions or the All-China Women’s Federation, Hong Mei, the head of the center, said in a telephone interview. These groups were perceived as being ineffective, as were factory managers, she said.
开展这次调查的非政府组织名为“向阳花女工中心”(Sunflower Women Workers Center)，其负责人红梅在电话采访中说，参加调查的女工中，没有任何一个说自己曾向官方的全国总工会或全国妇联寻求过帮助。她表示，女工们认为向这些组织求助没有用，向工厂经理求助也是一样。
“Their employers take no measures to prevent sexual harassment, communities offer no support to female victims and society as a whole lacks adequate awareness of the issue or deliberately avoids talking about it,” according to the introduction to the report on the survey, “The Sexual Harassment of Women Factory Workers in Guangzhou,” released Nov. 25.
这项调查的报告《广州女工性骚扰调研报告》于11月25日发布，其介绍称：“企业没有防止性骚扰的措施，社区对于受害女工缺乏支援，社会整体对于性骚扰问题认识不足或刻意避谈。”
“I wasn’t surprised by the results as it’s always been like this,” said Ms. Hong. “There are so many women facing this issue, and no one is helping them.”
“我对这个结果并不感到惊讶，因为情况一向如此。”红梅说，“有非常多的女性面临着这个问题，但却没有人为她们提供帮助。”
She speculated that the problem might be worse in the service industry, for example in hotels and bars. “We wanted to survey the women working there too but there aren’t groups in those areas that could organize it,” she said.
她推测，在酒店和酒吧这样的服务场所，问题可能更加严重。“我们想对在那里工作的女性开展调查，但在那些场所里，没有团体可以组织调查活动。”她说。
Most harassers were co-workers, and most harassment occurred after work, though a good deal also took place during work hours. Fifty-eight percent of victims were married, and most were 18 to 35 years old, according to the survey.
大多数骚扰都来自同事，大部分发生在下班后，不过也有很多发生在上班时间。调查显示，受害者58%是已婚妇女，年龄大多在18岁到35岁之间。
The survey was conducted over two months starting in late August. Of the 134 women who took part, about 70 percent said they had experienced “annoying whistling, shouts and lewd jokes.” Thirty-two percent had experienced “annoying touching,” and nine percent had been asked for sex. A quarter of the respondents said they had received obscene phone calls or pornographic messages, and 66 percent reported receiving “offensive comments about the body or appearance.”
调查从8月下旬开始，历时两个多月。在134名参与调查的女工中，约70%称遭遇过“令人讨厌的口哨、喊声、色情笑话”。32%称遭遇过“令人讨厌的身体触摸”，9%被“要求发生性关系”。四分之一接到过猥亵电话或黄色信息，66%称遭遇过“对身体或外表的令人反感的评论”。
Forty-three percent said they “submitted” to the harassment, and 47 percent said they “resisted” it (no details were given how). Fifteen percent said they left their jobs because of harassment. They rarely tell their bosses why, said Ms. Hong.
43%称她们对性骚扰采取了“隐忍”态度，47%表示自己曾做出“反抗”（细节不明），15%因性骚扰“自动离职”。红梅说，这些女工很少向老板吐露真正的辞职原因。
Many Chinese believe that a woman experiencing sexual harassment is herself to blame. Women also fear the social stigma.
很多中国人认为，女性受到性骚扰自己也有责任。而且女性还担心自己会背上坏名声。
“They are too embarrassed to say why they are leaving as people will think it’s their fault,” she said. “Also the bosses are usually male so it’s very hard to tell them.”
“她们羞于说出辞职原因，因为人们会觉得那是她们自己的错。”红梅说，“而且老板通常是男性，所以她们很难启齿。”
Factory workers are commonly paid at mid-month for the previous month’s work, she said, and may pay a one-month deposit when they take the job, meaning that a woman who resigns without reason may lose about two months’ salary. Only if she resigns with management approval — unlikely if she does not give a reason — does she get the deposit back, said Ms. Hong.
她说，女工通常在月中拿到上个月的工资，很多人在入职时还缴纳了相当于一个月工资的押金，因此，无故辞职的女工可能会损失两个月的工资。只有经理批准她辞职，押金才会返还；而当她说不出辞职理由时，经理是不太可能批准的。
It was hard even to conduct the survey, said Ms. Hong.
红梅说，甚至做这项调查本身也很困难。
“People regard this as a very private matter, think it’s an individual problem and are pretty sensitive,” she said. “You don’t just suffer economic losses in this situation, you also suffer psychological and emotional damage.”
“人们觉得这是很大的隐私，是非常敏感的个人问题。”她说，“在这种情况下，你不仅会蒙受经济损失，还会遭受心理和感情伤害。”
The survey was conducted in only several districts in Guangzhou, but China has about 260 million migrant workers, male and female, including many factory workers, suggesting that the scale of the problem could be enormous. Average monthly income for migrant workers in 2012 was 2,290 renminbi, or $375, Xinhua, the state news agency, reported this year.
这项调查只在广州的几个区进行，但是中国有大约2.6亿男女农民工，因此这个问题的规模不容小觑。官方机构新华社今年曾报道，在2012年，农民工的平均月工资为2290元人民币。
“There’s very little we can do for them,” said Ms. Hong. “They have to gather the evidence. And the government needs to make clear who women can turn to, how to solve their problem. Social attitudes have to change in order that women aren’t blamed when they are victims, and companies need to deal with this problem.”
“我们能为这些女工做的事情很少。”红梅说，“她们必须收集被骚扰的证据。女性可以向哪些机构求助，这样的问题该如何解决，政府需要做出明确规定。社会必须转变态度，不让受害女性遭受非难，企业也应该防止和解决这个问题。”