In four years of college, more than one-fourth of undergraduate women at a large group of leading universities said they had been sexually assaulted by force or when they were incapacitated, according to one of the largest studies of its kind, released Monday.
本周一公布的一项研究显示，在多所知名高校中，超过四分之一的本科女生称，自己在大学四年中曾在受迫或无力反抗的情况下遭到性侵。这是此类研究中规模最大的一次。
Responding to a survey commissioned by the American Association of Universities, 27.2 percent of female college seniors reported that, since entering college, they had experienced some kind of unwanted sexual contact — anything from touching to rape — carried out by incapacitation, usually due to alcohol or drugs, or by force. Nearly half of those, 13.5 percent, had experienced penetration, attempted penetration or oral sex.
美国大学协会(American Association of Universities)的调查显示，27.2%的大四女生表示，自进入大学以来，她们在酒精或药物导致的无力反抗的情况下，或者在受迫的情况下，经历了某种非自愿的性接触——从触碰到强奸都有。她们中将近一半的人，即13.5%，曾在性侵中经历插入、插入未遂或口交。
The survey bolstered findings from previous studies but stands out for its sheer size — 150,000 students at 27 colleges and universities took part last spring — and for the prominence of the institutions involved, which include many of the nation’s elite campuses, including all of the Ivy League except Princeton.
本次调查支持了以往的研究成果，但它的规模十分少见——27所高校15万人今年春天参加了这个调查——而且它调查的高校知名度较高，包括美国多所精英大学，涵盖了普林斯顿之外的所有常春藤盟校。
Last year, President Obama convened the first White House task force on college sexual assault, part of a growing demand for colleges to acknowledge, measure and address the problem. That task force, like members of Congress and victim advocates, called on colleges to conduct rigorous “campus climate” surveys, including detailed information on the frequency of assault and harassment.
去年，美国总统奥巴马成立了第一个关于高校性侵的白宫特别工作组，进一步要求高校了解、衡量和解决这一问题。这个工作组和国会议员、受害者权益维护者一起，敦促高校进行严格的“校园环境”调查，包括获得性攻击和性骚扰频率的详细信息。
Previous studies have estimated that about one in five women are sexually assaulted while at college, though comparisons are difficult because the studies use varying definitions of sexual assault.
以往的研究估计，约有五分之一的女性在大学里遭到过性侵，不过要对这些研究进行比较相当困难，因为不同的研究中对性侵的定义不同。
The new study cautioned that only 19 percent of students responded to the survey, far below the rates of some previous studies.
这项新的研究还警告说，只有19%的学生回复了这个问卷，远远低于以前一些研究中的回复率。
The A.A.U. survey found that even in the most serious assaults, those involving penetration, almost three-fourths of victims did not report the episode to anyone in authority, let alone law enforcement. The women said they did not report the assaults because they felt ashamed or did not think they would be taken seriously, or even because the women themselves did not think the incidents were serious enough to report.
美国大学协会的调查发现，即便是在最严重的——即涉及插入的——性骚扰中，将近四分之三的受害人不会向任何职权部门报告，更别说执法机构了。那些女性说，不报案是因为自己觉得羞愧，或是认为事情不会被重视，甚至因为她们自认为事情没有严重到要报告的程度。
“This survey is significant confirmation of a major problem, and it confirms what we’ve been saying about the mind-set on campus and the reception survivors expect to encounter,” said Zoe Ridolfi-Starr, deputy director of Know Your IX, an advocacy group that fights sexual assault.
“这项调查具有重要意义，证实了一个重要问题，也证实了有关校园内的习惯思维，以及幸存者可能得到怎样的对待，”与性骚扰作斗争的倡导团体“了解第九条”(Know Your IX)的副总监佐耶·里多尔菲-斯塔尔(Zoe Ridolfi-Starr)说。
Most of the institutions in the study released their own figures from the survey, and several of the most respected ones had some of the highest rates of sexual assault by force or incapacitation for undergraduate women — 34.6 percent at Yale, 34.3 percent at the University of Michigan, and 29.2 percent at Harvard.
研究涉及的大部分机构都公布了各自从调查中得到的数据，在其中几家最受尊敬的院校，本科女生在受迫或无力反抗的情况下遭受性骚扰的比例是最高的：耶鲁34.6%、密歇根大学34.3%、哈佛29.2%。
The findings were “profoundly troubling,” said Yale’s president, Peter Salovey. Yale’s handling of sexual assault has come under particular scrutiny in recent years, and the university has taken a number of steps to address it. Thomas Conroy, a university spokesman, said Monday that because the A.A.U. report was the first of its kind for Yale it was impossible to know whether those measures had paid off.
耶鲁大学的校长苏必德(Peter Salovey)表示，调查结果“令人深深担忧”。近几年，耶鲁对性骚扰的处理尤其受关注。该大学采取了大量举措解决这个问题。耶鲁大学发言人托马斯·康罗伊(Thomas Conroy)在周一表示，由于对耶鲁来说，美国大学协会的报告是第一份这样的报告，学校不可能知道那些措施是否起到了效果。
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, praised the study but expressed impatience that Congress had not acted to force colleges to improve their handling of sexual assault. “How many surveys will it take before we act with the urgency these crimes demand?” she asked.
纽约州民主党参议员陆天娜(Kirsten Gillibrand)称赞了这项研究，但也对国会尚未采取行动，强迫高校改善对性骚扰问题的应对，表示了不耐烦。“还要进行多少调查，我们才能用应有的态度去紧急行动起来？”她问道。
Some previous studies have focused more narrowly on rape and attempted rape, but the A.A.U. survey included much broader categories. It found that, when including acts carried out without force or incapacitation but with coercion or a lack of consent — which some colleges now define as sexual assault — one-third of senior women had experienced unwanted sexual contact during college.
之前的一些研究更狭隘一些，仅关注强奸和强奸未遂，但美国大学协会的调查包括的分类更广泛。研究发现，把未使用暴力或导致对方无力反抗，但却是在胁迫或未得到对方同意的情况下发生的行为——现在已被一些高校定义为性骚扰——包括进来时，三分之一的高年级女生在大学期间经历过非自愿的性接触。
John D. Foubert, a professor of higher education at Oklahoma State University who studies campus sexual assault, said he was troubled by the low response rate and by the A.A.U. study’s use of slightly different definitions from previous studies.
俄克拉何马州立大学(Oklahoma State University)研究校园性骚扰问题的高等教育教授约翰·D·富贝尔(John D. Foubert)表示，他对回复率低，及美国大学协会的研究使用的定义和之前的研究稍有不同感到担忧。
“This is pretty consistent with what we’ve seen before,” he said.
“这非常符合我们以前看到的情况，”他说。
Across the 27 universities, men experienced much lower — but still significant — rates of sexual assault than women; 8.6 percent of male seniors said they had experienced some kind of unwanted sexual contact, including 2.9 percent who said they had experienced penetration, attempted penetration or oral sex, carried out by force or incapacitation.
在27所高校中，男性经历性骚扰的比例远低于女性，但仍颇为显著。8.6%的高年级男生称自己经历过某种非自愿的性接触，其中2.9%的人表示经历过在受迫或无力反抗的情况下发生的插入、插入未遂或口交。
Transgender students and others who do not identify as either male or female had higher rates of assault than women. Experts said this was the first large-scale study they knew of to measure the extent of the problem for transgender students.
跨性别学生和其他不认为自己是男性或女性的人，遭遇性骚扰的比例高于女性。专家称，据他们所知这是第一次对跨性别学生中此类问题的严重程度进行大规模研究。