WARREN, Mich. — A sweeping internal investigation of General Motors released on Thursday condemned the company for its decade-long failure to fix a deadly safety defect, one that led to “devastating consequences,” including at least 13 deaths.
密歇根州沃伦——一项针对通用汽车公司(General Motors)的大规模内部调查于周四发布报告，指责公司在过去10年里一直未能修复某个致命性的安全缺陷，该缺陷引发了“惨重的后果”，包括导致至少13人死亡。
The report, written by the former United States attorney Anton R. Valukas, set off the dismissal of 15 G.M. employees, including a vice president for regulatory affairs and a senior lawyer responsible for product liability cases, and forced broad changes in how the company handles vehicle safety.
该报告由美国前检察官安东·R·沃卢卡斯(Anton R. Valukas)撰写，导致了15名通用员工被开除，其中包括负责法规事务的副总裁和一名负责产品责任案件的资深律师，并迫使该公司对车辆安全的处理做出了广泛的变革。
The report illustrates in unsparing detail how employees across departments neglected for years to repair a defect and issue a recall, despite a mountain of evidence that lives were at risk.
报告事无巨细地描述了通用各部门员工多年以来玩忽职守的行为，哪怕有一大堆证据显示，用户的生命正处于危险之中，他们也不去修复缺陷和发布召回令。
“Although everyone had responsibility to fix the problem, nobody took responsibility,” Mr. Valukas wrote.
沃卢卡斯说，“虽说每个人都有责任修复这个问题，然而却没有一个人承担起责任。”
A chastened Mary T. Barra, G.M.’s chief executive, described the report as “deeply troubling” in a meeting with more than 1,000 employees at the company’s sprawling technical center in the Detroit suburb of Warren.
在底特律郊区沃伦的一座规模庞大的通用技术中心，久经磨练的通用首席执行官玛丽·T·芭拉(Mary T. Barra)在一场会议上对一千多名员工说，这份报告“极其棘手”。
“For those of us who have dedicated our lives to this company, it is enormously painful to have our shortcomings laid out so vividly,” said Ms. Barra, who has worked at G.M. for more than 30 years. “I was deeply saddened and disturbed as I read the report.”
“对我们这些为这间公司奉献了毕生精力的员工而言，把我们的缺陷这样刺眼地罗列出来，实在让人痛不欲生。”在通用工作了30多年的芭拉说，“当我读到这份报告时，我深感痛心和不安。”
Yet the report cleared Ms. Barra and her top lieutenants, like Michael Millikin, the general counsel, of any wrongdoing in the long-delayed recall. And there was no evidence of a deliberate cover-up of the switch problems, according to Mr. Valukas.
然而，这份报告认定芭拉和她的法律总顾问迈克尔·米利金(Michael Millikin)等高级副手们，在被长期拖延的召回中没做错任何事。据沃卢克斯所述，也没有迹象显示开关问题被刻意掩盖了。
“It seems like the best report money can buy,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who had been highly critical of Ms. Barra at a hearing in April. “It absolves upper management, denies deliberate wrongdoing and dismisses corporate culpability.”
“看上去是能用钱买到的最佳报告了。它免除了最高领导层的责任，否认了这是蓄意为之的不当行为，否认了企业的过失，”康涅狄格州的民主党参议员理查德·布卢门撒尔(Richard Blumenthal)说。
Mr. Valukas’s three-month investigation included a review of millions of documents and interviews with at least 230 people, many of whom were employees directly involved in G.M.’s failure to fix a faulty ignition switch that could cause vehicles to lose power and deactivate air bags.
在为期三个月的调查里，沃卢克斯查阅了数百万份文件，采访了至少230人，其中有许多人都和通用未能修复点火开关故障的失职行为有直接关系，该故障会导致车辆失去动力，无法打开安全气囊。
Since February, G.M. has recalled 2.6 million Chevrolet Cobalts and other small cars to fix the defect, which the company so far links to 13 deaths and 54 accidents.
自今年2月以来，通用已经召回了260万辆雪佛兰Cobalts汽车和其他小型车，目的是修复该缺陷，通用认定，到目前为止，有13起死亡和54起事故与该缺陷有关。
But Ms. Barra admitted that the tally of deaths, injuries and crashes could grow in the weeks ahead, as the compensation expert Kenneth R. Feinberg prepares a report on how G.M. will make restitution to accident victims and their families.
不过，芭拉承认，由于赔偿专家肯尼斯·R·范伯格(Kenneth R. Feinberg)在为事故受害者及其家人准备一份关于通用如何进行赔偿的资料，在接下里的几周，死伤事故和碰撞事故的累计数量可能还会增加。
Ms. Barra said the company had dismissed 15 employees as a result of the report, and disciplined five others — highly unusual in an industry where such purges have been rare. She declined to provide details about the actions, but said that more than half of those who left the company held senior-level positions.
芭拉表示，这份报告已促使公司开除了15名员工，还有五人因此受到了纪律处分——这是极不寻常的，这个行业很少进行如此严厉的人员清洗。芭拉拒绝提供行动细节，不过她表示，这些离开公司的员工中，有一半以上都身居高位。
Among them were Michael J. Robinson, a vice president for global regulatory affairs, and William Kemp, a top lawyer who oversaw product-related litigation, according to a person briefed on the moves.
据一名了解此次裁员行动的人士透露，被裁员的有负责全球法规事务的副总裁迈克尔·J·鲁滨逊(Michael J. Robinson)和负责产品相关诉讼的高级律师威廉·肯普(William Kemp)。
Those dismissed also included two safety executives, Gay Kent and Carmen Benavides, as well as two midlevel engineers, Raymond DeGiorgio and Gary Altman, both of whom had previously been suspended for neglecting to address the switch problem in its early stages.
被解雇员工中还包括两名安全主管盖伊·肯特(Gay Kent)和卡门·贝纳维德斯(Carmen Benavides)，以及两名中层工程师雷蒙德·德乔治(Raymond DeGiorgio)和加里·阿尔特曼(Gary Altman)。此前，这两名工程师均因早期疏于解决这个开关问题而被停职。
“I never want to put this behind us,” Ms. Barra told employees. “I want to keep this painful experience in our collective memories.”
“我从没想把这个问题抛在脑后，”芭拉告诉员工，“我想让这次痛苦的经历留在我们共同的记忆里。”
The defective switch — a tiny part hidden inside the steering column of the recalled vehicles — has already taken an immense toll on the company’s finances and reputation.
有缺陷的开关——藏在被召回车辆的转向柱里面的一个小部件——已经给公司造成巨大的财务和声誉损失。
Since the switch recall, G.M. has issued dozens of additional recalls to fix various problems on vehicles throughout its product lineup. The company has set aside $1.7 billion to pay for the repairs, appointed a new executive to supervise vehicle safety and begun a wide-ranging shake-up of its engineering department.
自因开关问题而宣布召回以来，通用汽车又几十次宣布召回车辆，以修复其整个产品系列中的车辆的各种问题。该公司已准备了17亿美元（约合106亿元人民币）作为维修费，还任命了一名新高管负责车辆安全，并已经开始对工程部进行大范围改组。
Still, G.M.’s most delicate task lies ahead — arriving at the exact number of fatalities and injuries caused by the faulty switch, and compensating the victims.
然而，通用汽车面前依然摆着一项最棘手的任务——得出有缺陷开关导致的具体伤亡人数，并赔偿遇难者。
Those decisions, Ms. Barra and another senior executive, Daniel Ammann, told reporters, would be left up to Mr. Feinberg, as well as the amount of money that G.M. would pay for individual deaths and injuries.
芭拉和另一名高管丹尼尔·安曼(Daniel Ammann)告诉记者，这些问题以及通用汽车支付给每位死伤者的金额，将由范伯格来决定。
Mr. Feinberg said Thursday that he hoped to complete his recommendations for the compensation program within a few weeks, and to be prepared to receive claims from victims and their families in August.
范伯格周四表示，他希望在几周时间内完成对赔偿计划的建议，并在8月准备好受理遇难者及其家属提出的索赔。
“I have already drafted some preliminary compensation ideas and plan to share them in confidence over the next few weeks with lawyers, public interest groups, G.M. and others interested in the compensation program,” he said.
“我已经起草了一些初步的赔偿意见，计划接下来几周在私下里让律师、公益组织、通用汽车和其他对赔偿计划感兴趣的人看看，”他说。
G.M. has not released the names of any accident victims, citing a desire to protect their privacy. But some family members of victims, as well as people injured in crashes, have spoken out.
通用汽车尚未公布任何事故遇难者的姓名，称是希望保护那些人的隐私。但部分遇难者家属，以及撞车事故的受伤者已经站出来了。
Candice Anderson was driving a Saturn Ion equipped with a defective switch in 2004 when it crashed in Texas, killing her boyfriend, Gene Erickson.
2004年，坎迪丝·安德森(Candice Anderson)开着一辆安装了有缺陷开关的土星Ion在德克萨斯州发生撞车，男友吉恩·埃里克森(Gene Erickson)丧命。
Ms. Anderson took a day off work on Thursday to watch Ms. Barra’s remarks on television. “I’m glad they’re taking responsibility,” she said. “They’re saying it was their fault.”
为了看芭拉在电视上的讲话，安德森周四请了一天假。“很高兴他们开始承担责任了，”她说，“他们说这是他们的错。”
But despite the depth and breadth of Mr. Valukas’s critique of the company, some of G.M.’s critics were not satisfied with the report, or with Ms. Barra’s apologies.
但尽管沃卢卡斯对该公司的批评有深度，也有广度，但通用汽车的部分批评人士对这份报告，以及芭拉的抱歉并不满意。
“I’m not sure I can trust G.M. to do a thorough internal investigation of itself,” said Laura Christian, birth mother of Amber Marie Rose, who died in a Cobalt in 2005. “I hope the Department of Justice is able to uncover the entire truth.”
“我不确定能不能相信通用汽车会对自己进行彻底的内部调查，”劳拉·克里斯蒂安(Laura Christian)说，“我希望司法部(Department of Justice)能揭开所有真相。”2005年，她的孩子在一辆Cobalt里遇难。
G.M. still faces investigations by the Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and a group of state attorneys general.
通用汽车还面临着司法部、证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)以及一个由州检察长组成的组织的调查。