Donald J. Trump’s hair is the latest point of contention between Gawker Media and Hulk Hogan’s lawyers.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的头发成为高客传媒(Gawker Media)和哈尔克·霍根(Hulk Hogan)的律师们之间的最新争论焦点。
In a letter sent last week to Gawker on behalf of a hair treatment clinic, Charles J. Harder, who is representing Mr. Hogan, the retired wrestler, in his invasion of privacy lawsuit against the media company, said a recent article about Mr. Trump’s hair made “numerous false and defamatory statements about my clients.”
上周，律师查尔斯·J·哈德(Charles J. Harder)代表一家头发治疗诊所给高客传媒发了一封信。哈德在信中表示，最近的一篇关于特朗普头发的文章对“我的客户们”进行了“很多错误和诽谤性陈述”。哈德正代表退役摔跤运动员霍根对该传媒公司进行隐私权侵犯诉讼。
Mr. Harder demanded that Gawker immediately remove the article and publish a public apology and full retraction. The letter also threatened legal action on behalf of the clinic, Ivari International, and Edward Ivari.
哈德要求高客传媒立刻撤掉这篇文章，并发表公开道歉信，全面收回自己的陈述。这封信还威胁代表伊瓦里国际诊所(Ivari International)和爱德华·伊瓦里(Edward Ivari)提起法律诉讼。
The letter continues a legal battle between Mr. Harder and Gawker. His Los Angeles-based law firm, Harder, Mirell & Abrams, was thrust into the spotlight last month when it was revealed that the Silicon Valley billionaire Peter Thiel was secretly providing financial support for lawsuits against Gawker.
这封信延续了哈德与高客之间的法律争斗。上个月，硅谷亿万富翁彼得·蒂尔(Peter Thiel)被曝出秘密为针对高客的诉讼提供财力支持之后，哈德位于洛杉矶的律所Harder, Mirell & Abrams成为媒体焦点。
It is not clear whether Mr. Thiel, who is a pledged delegate for Mr. Trump for the 2016 Republican convention, is behind the letter.
蒂尔已承诺在2016年的共和党大会上支持特朗普。尚不清楚这封信是否得到了蒂尔的支持。
The letter, which was obtained by The New York Times, lists 19 “false and defamatory” statements in the article, many of which were taken from two lawsuits. It contends that Gawker’s actions intentionally inflicted emotional distress, invaded Mr. Ivari’s privacy and constituted tortious interference “with actual and prospective business relations.”
《纽约时报》获得的这封信中列出了该文章里的19处“错误和诽谤性”陈述，其中很多摘自两起诉讼。这封信指出，高客的行为故意施加精神伤害，侵犯了伊瓦里的隐私，对“现有和未来的业务关系”构成侵权干涉。
The article, which was published in late May under the headline “Is Donald Trump’s Hair a $60,000 Weave? A Gawker Investigation,” said a “tipster” had suggested that Mr. Trump’s hair was “not his own, costs tens of thousands of dollars for installation and upkeep, and comes from a man as mysterious as Trump is bombastic.”
那篇文章是5月底发表的，标题为《高客调查：唐纳德·特朗普的头发是花费6万美元织出来的吗？》(Is Donald Trump’s Hair a $60,000 Weave? A Gawker Investigation)。文章称，一位“线人”说，特朗普的头发“不是他自己的，是花费数万美元种植养护出来的，出自一位神秘人物之手，特朗普有多夸夸其谈，此人就有多神秘。”
In the article, the anonymous tipster said Mr. Trump relied on “microcylinder intervention,” a hair restoration treatment that is “only performed by one clinic that we know of — Ivari International.” The article, which was peppered with pictures of Mr. Trump’s golden mane, also claimed that Ivari’s New York location was in Trump Tower “on the private floor reserved for Donald Trump’s own office.”
在文章中，这位匿名线人说，特朗普依靠的是一种名为“微柱体干预”的头发修复治疗技术，“据我们所知，只有一家诊所进行这种治疗，那就是伊瓦里国际诊所。”这篇文章还声称，伊瓦里纽约诊所的地点就在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)“专门为唐纳德·特朗普自己的办公室留出的那个私人楼层里”。文章的配图是特朗普的金色长发。
In the letter, Mr. Harder wrote that Gawker’s actions exposed the company “to substantial monetary damages and punitive damages.”
哈德在信中写道，高客的行为会让该公司遭受“巨大的金钱损失和惩罚性损失”。
He also appeared to want the letter to stay out of the public eye: “This letter is confidential and protected by applicable copyright law,” he wrote.
他似乎不想公开这封信。他写道：“这封信是机密信件，受到可适用的版权法保护。”
In Gawker’s response, Heather Dietrick, the company’s general counsel and president, said Mr. Harder’s order that the article be removed was a “vastly overbroad demand to be made for Mr. Ivari, who plays only a part in the article about Donald Trump.”
高客传媒的法律总顾问兼总裁希瑟·迪特里克(Heather Dietrick)回应说，哈德撤掉这篇文章的要求“对伊瓦里来说是过度要求，因为他只是这篇关于唐纳德·特朗普的文章中的配角。”
Ms. Dietrick called the demand surprising because Mr. Harder took “no issue with the central thesis of the piece — that Mr. Ivari has worked on Donald Trump’s hair.”
迪特里克称这一要求令人惊讶，因为哈德对“这篇文章的中心论点——伊瓦里给唐纳德·特朗普做了头发——没有异议。”