He was treated like a petulant prince as a child. He forgave the family’s sushi chef for disloyalty. He loved basketball and owned many pairs of Nikes as a student in Switzerland.
他小的时候被当作脾气暴躁的王子对待；他原谅了他家寿司厨师的不忠；他热爱篮球，在瑞士当学生时拥有许多双耐克运动鞋。
The details are among the few known about the reclusive North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, 34, who met with South Korean officials for the first time this week — and may meet with President Trump in the next two months.
这些是外界所知的关于34岁的朝鲜领导人金正恩为数不多的细节。金正恩本周首次与韩国官员见了面，并可能在未来两个月内与特朗普总统见面。
Mr. Kim remains an enigma. He is thought to have ordered the executions of disloyal subordinates including his own uncle. But a handful of acquaintances including former school friends and family members who defected to the West have offered details of his life that also suggest a more forgiving personality:
金正恩仍然是个谜。外界认为他下令处决了不忠的下属，包括自己的姑父。但是，包括以前在学校时的朋友和叛逃到西方的家庭成员在内的几位熟人提供的他的生活细节，也暗示了一个更加宽容的性格：
The sushi chef
寿司厨师
A Japanese sushi chef who worked for years for the North Korean leader’s father, Kim Jong-il, has turned out to be one of the most valuable sources of information about Kim Jong-un. Though much of the time they spent together was during Mr. Kim’s childhood, a more recent meeting offered key insights.
一位曾经为这位朝鲜领导人的父亲金正日工作多年的日本寿司厨师，后来成了有关金正恩的最有价值的信息来源之一。虽然他们相处的大部分时间是在金正日的童年时期，但最近的一次见面提供了一些重要洞悉。
The chef, who goes by the pseudonym Kenji Fujimoto, described working for the Kim family in two books. The young Mr. Kim knew all about the hostility between his homeland and Mr. Fujimoto’s, from decades of Japanese colonial rule.
这位化名藤本健二(Kenji Fujimoto)的厨师在他写的两本书中，讲述了他为金氏家族工作的故事。年轻的金正恩对朝鲜与日本之间发生的战争有充分的了解，日本曾对朝鲜实行了几十年的殖民统治。
“When Prince Jong-un shook hands with me, he fixed me with a vicious look,” Mr. Fujimoto wrote in a 2003 memoir describing his first encounter with Mr. Kim, then 7, who was dressed in a military uniform and called “prince” by his father’s aides. “I still cannot forget the look in his eyes. It seemed to say: ‘This is a despicable Japanese.’”
“正恩亲王与我握手时，他用充满仇恨的眼光看着我，”藤本健二在2003年发表的回忆录中写道。他第一次见到金正恩时，金正恩只有7岁，他身着军装，被父亲的助手称为“亲王”。“我仍然不能忘记他眼中的表情。那似乎在说：‘这是一个令人厌恶的日本人。’”
He said the boy was his father’s favorite among six children.
藤本健二说，金正恩在他父亲的六个孩子中最受宠。
After years of working for the family, Mr. Fujimoto fled home to Japan, where he lived in fear that North Korean agents would punish him for disloyalty. But in 2012, he returned to the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, for a visit at the request of Mr. Kim, who was now the country’s leader. The chef returned to Japan two weeks later with a positive review.
在为金家工作了多年之后，藤本健二逃回了日本老家，在那里，他一直生活在恐惧之中，担心朝鲜特工会因为他的不忠而惩罚他。但在2012年，他应金正恩的要求，回到朝鲜首都平壤，当时，金正恩已是朝鲜领导人。两周后，这位厨师带着正面的评价回到了日本。
“The comrade general smiled and told me: ‘Your betrayal is now forgotten,’” Mr. Fujimoto said in a 2012 interview. He claimed the quality of life for average citizens had improved under Mr. Kim.
“将军同志微笑着对我说：‘你的背叛现在已被忘却。’”藤本健二在2012年的一次采访中说。他声称，在金正恩的领导下，普通公民的生活质量得到了改善。
Mr. Fujimoto said he had been surprised at the prominent role of Mr. Kim’s wife, Ri Sol-ju, during a lunch meeting, a stark departure from his father’s style. Mr. Fujimoto said Mr. Kim was relaxed and cheerful, but also clearly in charge. The chef said Mr. Kim also seemed open to the idea of change in his country as they chatted over glasses of Bordeaux and smoked French cigarettes.
藤本健二说，他对金正恩的妻子李雪主(Ri Sol-ju)在一次午餐会上的突出角色感到意外，这与金正恩的风格截然不同。藤本健二说，金正恩很放松、很高兴，但也显然掌管一切。这位厨师说，他们一边喝着波尔多葡萄酒、一边抽着法国香烟闲聊，金正恩似乎对改变自己国家的想法持开放态度。
“The comrade-general listened to everything I said and nodded even when I urged him to open up the republic to the world,” Mr. Fujimoto said. “Kim Jong-il never would have sat still and listened to views like that.”
“将军同志倾听了我说的每件事，甚至在我敦促他向世界开放朝鲜时，他还点了头，”藤本健二说。“金正日在听到这种观点时，绝对不会坐着不动。”
The family members
家庭成员
Relatives have also recounted their impressions of Mr. Kim as a youth. Among them were the leader’s maternal aunt, who was known in North Korea as Ko Yong Suk, and her husband, Ri Gang. The pair defected to the United States in 1998 and now go by different names for their safety.
亲属们也讲述了他们对年轻的金正恩的印象。这些亲属包括这位朝鲜领导人的姨妈，她在朝鲜时的名字是高英淑(Ko Yong Suk)，以及她的丈夫李江(Ri Gang)。这对夫妇于1998年叛逃到美国，为了安全，他们现在使用不同的名字。
The couple have not seen Kim Jong-un in nearly 20 years. But from 1996 to 2000 he lived in Switzerland while attending school, and lived with his aunt and uncle for part of that time. In 2016, they spoke extensively about him with the Washington Post.
这对夫妇已经将近20年没见过金正恩了。但从1996年到2000年这段时间，金正恩曾在瑞士生活，在那里上学，部分时间与姨妈姨夫住在一起。这对夫妇在2016年向《华盛顿邮报》讲述了有关金正恩的很多故事。
“He wasn’t a troublemaker. But he was short-tempered and had a lack of tolerance,” Ms. Ko said. “When his mother tried to tell him off for playing with these things too much and not studying enough, he wouldn’t talk back. But he would protest in other ways, like going on a hunger strike.”
“他不是一个捣蛋鬼。但他脾气暴躁，缺乏宽容，”高英淑说。“他母亲试图责备他玩这些东西玩得太多、花在学习上的时间不够时，他并不顶嘴。但他会以其他方式抗议，比如绝食。”
His aunt said that Mr. Kim’s official designation as his father’s successor was not known to the world until many years later. But Mr. Kim had known since 1992 that he was in line to rule.
他的姨妈说，外界直到多年以后才知道，官方已将金正恩定为他父亲的继承人。但金正恩从1992年起就知道，他将继承统治地位。
At his eighth birthday party, he was given a general’s uniform and real generals bowed to him to pay their respects, she said.
高英淑说，在他8岁时的生日聚会上，他收到了一套将军制服，真将军们向他鞠躬致敬。
“It was impossible for him to grow up as a normal person when the people around him were treating him like that,” Ms. Ko said.
“当周围的人都这样对待他时，他不可能像正常人一样长大，”高英淑说。
The basketball player
篮球运动员
Dennis Rodman, the eccentric American basketball player, has visited North Korea five times since 2013 and met with Mr. Kim on three of those visits. The pair have since become unlikely friends.
美国篮球运动员丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)自2013年以来已经五次访问朝鲜，其中三次见到了金正恩。他们两人后来令人难以置信地成了朋友。
In December 2017, when Mr. Rodman appeared on “The Late Show with Stephen Colbert,” he described their relationship.
2017年12月，罗德曼曾在《斯蒂芬·科尔伯的深夜秀》(The Late Show with Stephen Colbert)上描述了两人的关系。
“For some reason he trusts me,” Mr. Rodman said.
“出于某种原因，他信任我，”罗德曼说。
He said they had talked about basketball, a sport Mr. Kim loves and played in Switzerland when he was in school. Mr. Rodman insisted that he had seen a different side of Mr. Kim, whose oppressive rule and nuclear weapons testing has made him a world pariah.
罗德曼说，他们曾谈论篮球，金正恩非常喜爱这项运动，而且在瑞士念书时打过篮球。罗德曼坚称，他看到了金正恩不同的一面，金正恩的高压统治和核武器试验让他被世界唾弃。
“I don’t see how people can sit there and say: ‘This person’s a madman.’ He probably is. But I didn’t see that,” Mr. Rodman said.
“我不明白人们怎么会在那里坐谈‘此人是疯子’。他也许是。但我看不出来，”罗德曼说。
Asked about his discussions of North Korea’s nuclear program with Mr. Kim, he said the leader was clear that he did not want war.
当被问及他是否与金正恩讨论朝鲜核项目时，罗德曼说，金正恩很明确地表示，他不想要战争。
“I think he really wants to change his culture,” Mr. Rodman said. “But I think he is forced to be in this position …”
“我觉得他真的想改变他的文化，”罗德曼说。“但我认为他是被迫处在这个位置上……”
The schoolmates
同学
While Mr. Kim has been spent most of his life in North Korea, he attended the German-language Liebefeld-Steinhölzli public school near Bern, Switzerland, from 1996 to 2000. Former classmates described him as a “good friend.”
虽然金正恩的大部分时间是在朝鲜度过的，但从1996年到2000年，他曾在瑞士伯尔尼附近的德语公立学校Liebefeld-Steinholzli就读。以前的同学把他描述为“好朋友”。
Joao Micaelo, one of those classmates, said his peers thought he was the son of a staff member at the North Korean Embassy.
其中一位叫若昂·米卡洛(Joao Micaelo)的同学说，同龄人都以为他是朝鲜大使馆一名工作人员的儿子。
“We had a lot of fun together. He was a good guy,” Mr. Micaelo said in an interview with The Daily Beast. “Lots of kids liked him.”
“我们在一起玩得很开心，他是个好人，”米卡洛在接受《每日野兽》(The Daily Beast)采访时说。“很多孩子都喜欢他。”
The boy he knew in school loved basketball and had a large collection of Nike sneakers, Mr. Micaelo said. Another classmate, Marco Imhof, also remembered him favorably.
米卡洛说，他在学校认识的那个男孩热爱篮球，收集了大量的耐克运动鞋。另一位叫马可·伊姆霍夫(Marco Imhof)的同学对金正恩也有好的记忆。
“He was funny,” Mr. Imhof told the Daily Beast. “Always good for a laugh. He also hated to lose. Winning was very important.”
“他很有趣，” 伊姆霍夫对《每日野兽》说。“总喜欢开玩笑。他也讨厌失败。获胜（对他来说）非常重要。”