For a long time, it’s been something of a dirty secret, violating ideas about great artistic originality: Vincent van Gogh frequently made copies of his own work. Now, in an about-face, what is seemingly the least original aspect of van Gogh’s method is offering a close-up glimpse into the strange, obsessive intensity of his creative process.
长久以来，这一直是个不光彩的秘密，违背了伟大的艺术原创性的观念：文森特·梵高(Vincent van Gogh)经常复制自己的作品。如今，情况发生了彻底转变，梵高看上去最不具原创性的做法却能让我们近距离研究他创作过程中奇怪、迷人的艺术激情。
His curious practice of copying himself provides the impetus for a new exhibition, “Van Gogh Repetitions,” which opens on Saturday at the Phillips Collection in Washington and then travels to Cleveland.
他复制自己作品的古怪做法成为新展览“梵高复制品”(Van Gogh Repetitions)的原动力。该展览周六在华盛顿的菲利普斯收藏馆(Phillips Collection)开幕，之后将转往克利夫兰展出。
In the 19th century, when the academy ruled, making copies played a central role in professional art training. Students often worked for years carefully copying plaster casts of ancient sculptures before they were allowed to make an original painting. Some never went on to do anything else.
19世纪，学院派占主导地位时，仿制在专业艺术培训中占据中心地位。学生们通常花多年时间仔细地用石膏仿制古代雕塑作品，然后才被允许创作自己的原创绘画。有些学生一辈子都在仿制。
But during the 20th century, this practice fell into disrepute. It came to be viewed as anti-artistic. At its most extreme, copying can easily drift into forgery, a criminal act. Because of this modern distaste for copying, van Gogh’s replicas of his own work, which he called répétitions, have sometimes even been dismissed by overly vigilant scholars as fakes.
但是在20世纪，这种做法声名扫地。它被认为是一种反艺术行为。在极端情况下，仿制很容易沦为伪造，成为一种犯罪行为。由于现代社会对仿制的厌恶，梵高对自己作品的复制品（他有时将其称之为“重复”）有时甚至被过度警惕的学者们斥为赝品。
The exhibition brings together 13 instances in which van Gogh made more than one version of a work — and often multiple versions. In the show’s catalog, a team of scholars and conservators, led by William Robinson and Eliza Rathbone, assemble and analyze documents that are clues to when van Gogh made a copy of what. Perhaps most significant, this team uses new technical evidence, such as X-rays and high-resolution digital imagery, firmly to resolve questions about the sequence of these works that have confounded scholars and fans of van Gogh until now.
该展览汇集了梵高同一作品多个版本的13个例子。在展览目录中，由威廉·罗宾森(William Robinson)和伊莱扎·罗斯本(Eliza Rathbone)领导的学者和博物馆管理员团队收集和分析了一些资料，能说明梵高是何时创作了哪个版本。也许最重要的是，这个团队使用新技术——比如X射线和高像素数码图像——确切地解决了直到现在还让学者们和梵高迷们感到迷惑的版本先后顺序问题。
An international group of van Gogh scholars — Louis van Tilborgh, a curator at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam; Timothy J. Standring at the Denver Art Museum, curator of “Becoming van Gogh”; and Cornelia Homburg, a curator of “Van Gogh: Up Close” — applaud this effort. They note that it increases our understanding of van Gogh and shows what authentic works possess that fakes lack. Mr. Standring said that the show invites viewers to “establish perhaps their own conclusions.”
国际上的一些梵高学者们赞扬了这次展览，包括阿姆斯特丹梵高博物馆的策展人路易丝·范提伯格(Louis van Tilborgh)、曾策划“成为梵高”(Becoming van Gogh)展的丹佛艺术博物馆的提摩西·J·斯坦德林(Timothy J. Standring)以及“梵高特写”(Van Gogh: Up Close)展的策展人科妮莉亚·霍姆伯格(Cornelia Homburg)。他们认为，这场展览能够加深我们对梵高的理解，展示出真品拥有而仿制品缺乏的东西。斯坦德林说这场展览希望参观者“或许能得出自己的结论”。
A specific pair of paintings by van Gogh — one in Cleveland, the other in Washington — inspired the exhibition. In May 1889, van Gogh made two very similar versions of the same painting: “The Large Plane Trees (Road Menders at Saint-Rémy),” now in the Cleveland Museum of Art, and “The Road Menders,” in the Phillips Collection. Despite their different titles, the paintings are virtually identical in their outlines — so close that van Gogh may have traced one to paint the other.
这场展览的灵感来源于梵高的两幅画作——一件在克利夫兰，另一件在华盛顿。1889年5月，梵高画了两幅非常相似的油画：现在属于克利夫兰艺术博物馆的《大梧桐树（圣雷米的修路者）》(The Large Plane Trees[Road Menders at Saint-Rémy])和菲利普斯收藏馆的《修路者》(The Road Menders)。尽管这两幅画名字不同，但它们的轮廓是一样的，梵高很可能是根据其中一幅画来创造另一幅的。
Their existence has long been known; they were shown side by side at a van Gogh exhibition in Cleveland in 1948. But, partly because the whole process of making copies has been viewed as morally suspect, the exact relationship of the two works has never been studiously examined.
人们很早以前就知道这两幅画的存在。1948年，在克利夫兰的一次梵高展上，它们被并排放在一起。但是，由于人们认为制作副本的整个过程从道德角度讲不太光彩，所以这两幅作品的确切关系一直未被仔细研究。
Which paintings came first? The curators first used X-rays to reveal that the under-layers of “The Large Plane Trees” (in Cleveland) are a dense, almost illegible flurry of brush strokes, whereas the under-layers of “The Road Menders” (at the Phillips) match the surface of the painting almost exactly.
哪幅画是先画的？策展人们先用X射线发现《大梧桐树》(The Large Plane Trees，克利夫兰的那幅）的底色是匆忙画出的、几乎难以辨认的浓密的线条，而《修路者》（The Road Menders，菲利普斯的那幅）的底色和油画表层的线条几乎是一样的。
As Mr. Robinson observed: “It’s not hard to figure out that the Cleveland painting must have been made outdoors, where van Gogh was making mistakes and changes. The painting in the Phillips Collection, on the other hand, is clearly the copy.”
罗宾森说：“不难发现克利夫兰的那幅画是在户外创作的，里面有一些错误和改动。而菲利普斯收藏馆的那幅画很明显是复制品。”
Next, the researchers moved to the surface, learning that van Gogh executed the paintings on very different materials. The Cleveland painting is on a thin cotton fabric with commercially printed red diamonds and no priming, an unorthodox material. The Phillips painting is on a standard primed artist’s canvas. Thus the Cleveland painting seems rougher, as befits an outdoor sketch; the Phillips painting a bit smoother, more deliberate.
接下来，研究者们开始研究这两幅画的表层，发现梵高是在很不相同的材质上创作这两幅画的。克利夫兰的那幅是在细棉布上画的，有商家印上的红色菱形图案，而且没有底漆，不是正规的画布。而菲利普斯的那幅是在标准的含有底漆的艺术家用的画布上画的。所以克利夫兰的那幅画看起来更粗糙，与户外作画的情形相吻合；菲利普斯的那幅更流畅、更从容。
In addition, van Gogh made a number of little improvements in the second version, at the Phillips. “You can see he moved the street lamp to the left to make it stand out,” Mr. Robinson said. “He added more lines to the tree. He even added an additional figure of a man digging on the far right.”
另外，梵高在菲利普斯的那第二幅画中做了些小小的改进。“你能看到他把路灯往左移了一点，让它更突出，”罗宾森说，“他往树上画了更多的线条。他甚至还在最右边加了一个挖土的男人。”
Which of the two paintings is better? If you think copying is bad, then clearly the Cleveland version is better. Unfortunately, we don’t have van Gogh’s vote. But in other instances he often declared that he considered the replica the better painting, the more significant work of art.
这两幅画哪幅更好？如果你不喜欢复制品，那么很明显克利夫兰的那幅更好。遗憾的是，我们不能让梵高来投个票。但是在其他一些类似的情况下，他经常声称他认为复制品更好，更有艺术价值。
In letters to his brother Theo, van Gogh frequently declared that he viewed the repetitions as an opportunity to improve and clarify his initial composition, since he was able to work more slowly and carefully than when painting outdoors with gawking bystanders and shifting light. In many of his copies (as illustrated in this exhibition), van Gogh’s brush work is smoother, more careful and more deliberate than in the first version. As he explained to Theo, he could transform a painting from a direct transcription of a scene into a true work of the imagination.
在给弟弟西奥(Theo)的信中，梵高经常说他认为复制品让他有机会改进、阐明最初的创作，因为他能够仔细地慢慢画，不像在户外作画那样有人围观，光线也不断变化。他的很多复制品（比如这次展览中展出的这些）比原作更流畅、更仔细、更从容。他跟西奥解释说，他能把一幅画从对场景的直接描摹转变成真正富有想象力的作品。
Van Gogh’s goals in making repetitions seem to have varied. In several instances he dashed off copies as gifts to family members, artist friends or people who had posed for him. As the exhibition catalog documents, visually and through van Gogh’s comments, these second works are often smaller and more perfunctory than the first version. So there’s no simple answer to whether the original or the copy is superior.
梵高绘制复制品似乎有不同的目的。有几次，他是匆忙画出复制品送给家人、艺术家朋友或者模特当礼物。就像展览目录中说的那样，从视觉上以及梵高的评论中，我们可以看出这些复制品通常比原作更小、更潦草。所以不能简单地说原作和复制品哪个更好。
Closely examining the two versions of the road-mending scene inch by inch can be tiring, but that’s a small challenge compared with sorting out what van Gogh was up to when he made three versions of his bedroom at Arles, and six paintings and three drawings of the postman Joseph Roulin.
一点一点仔细研究修路场景的两个版本可能特别累人，但是要弄清梵高何以为自己在阿尔勒的卧室画了三幅油画，为邮递员约瑟夫·鲁林(Joseph Roulin)画了六幅油画和三幅素描，这就更有挑战性了。
What’s surprising is how different the six postman paintings appear when side by side. In one, the eyebrows are bushy; in another they are a wiggly horizontal line. Sometimes we see the left ear, sometimes we don’t. We start to read in personality traits: Some of the postmen stare us down, and others look distracted or self-absorbed or possibly even slightly crazed.
当这六幅邮递员油画被并排放在一起时，我们惊奇地发现它们很不相同。有的画里他的眉毛很浓密，有的画里他的眉毛是一条扭曲的水平线。在有的画里我们能看到左耳，有的不能。我们还注意到人物的个性特点：有的向下瞪着我们，有的心不在焉，有的自以为是，有的甚至有点疯狂。
“In the case of ‘The Road Menders’ and ‘The Large Plane Trees,’ ” Mr. Robinson said, “it’s easy to tell which came first. But in the case of the nine postmen, the variables are so large that art historians are still arguing the point.”
罗宾森说，“很容易判断《修路者》和《大梧桐树》哪幅画是先画的。但是这九个邮递员差别很大，艺术史学家们仍然没有达成一致意见。”
“By the time he got to the later versions of the group,” he said, “van Gogh wasn’t working from a single model, but was drawing from three or four earlier versions and combining them in new ways.”
“梵高画后几幅画的时候，”罗宾森说，“他不是依据模特作画，而是根据前面的三四个版本，用新的方法把它们组合到一起。”
The nine postmen are not so much repetitions, then, but variations on an idea, not unlike the way a composer like Bach created successive variations on a theme in music. In a seeming paradox, van Gogh was never more inventive than when copying himself.
这九个邮递员并不能算是复制品，而是同一个想法的几个变体，跟巴赫(Bach)这样的作曲家就同一主题连续创作几个大同小异的曲子是一样的。所以，从反面看，梵高在复制自己作品的时候比以往任何时候都更有创意。
The exhibition and catalog encourage close looking. “You have to really concentrate,” Mr. Robinson said. “But when you compare van Gogh’s different versions of a design stroke by stroke, you start to relive his creative decisions. It’s a strangely mystical experience. It’s as if you’re absorbed into the intensity of his genius.”
这次展览以及展览目录都鼓励参观者仔细观看。“你真的必须全神贯注，”罗宾森说，“当你仔细对比梵高同一主题的不同版本时，你开始体验他的创作决定。那是一种奇怪、神秘的体验。好像你被他天才的艺术激情吸引住了。”