The troubling gap between politics and governance in Pakistan came into stark relief on Tuesday, when lawmakers elected the country’s 12th president just hours after Taliban militants shot their way into a major jail, freeing about 250 prisoners.
周二，巴基斯坦的政治和国家治理之间令人忧心的差距显露无遗，在塔利班(Taliban)武装分子持枪攻入一间大型监狱，并释放了约250名囚犯的数小时后，议员们推选出了该国第12任总统。
As predicted, Mamnoon Hussain, a little-known textiles magnate from Karachi and a loyalist of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, won the presidential vote in the national and provincial legislatures. He will take over from President Asif Ali Zardari, a contentious figure who is due to step down on Sept. 8.
和预期的一样，鲜为人知的卡拉奇纺织业巨头、忠于前总理纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)的马姆努恩·侯赛因(Mamnoon Hussain)在国家和省级立法机构的总统选举中胜出。他将接任阿西夫·阿里·扎尔达里(Asif Ali Zardari)的总统职位，扎尔达里这位颇具争议性的人物则将于9月8日下台。
The election was another important democratic step in a country that has seen four military coups since the 1950s, the most recent in 1999. It confirmed Mr. Sharif, whose party emerged victorious from May’s general election, as the most powerful civilian leader.
这次选举是迈向民主的重要一步。20世纪50年代以来，巴基斯坦已发生四次军事政变，最近的一次是在1999年。在谢里夫领导的政党赢得了5月的大选胜利后，周二的选举确认了他作为最有影响力的文职领袖的地位。
But away from the democratic process lay sobering reminders that Taliban insurgents, not power-hungry generals, now present the most pressing challenge to state authority in Pakistan.
但抛开民主进程，人们也清醒地认识到，塔利班叛军，而不是渴望权力的将军们，正构成对巴基斯坦国家权力最紧迫的挑战。
In the northwest, heavily armed militants mounted an audacious jailbreak just before midnight on Monday at a century-old prison at Dera Ismail Khan. The site is just outside the tribal belt, where the majority of C.I.A. drone strikes have taken place.
在巴基斯坦西北部，全副武装的极端分子在周一午夜前大胆袭击了德拉伊斯梅尔汗一座有着百年历史的监狱，释放了部分囚犯。该监狱距离部落地带很近，而部落地带正是多数中央情报局(CIA)无人机袭击发生的地方。
Up to 150 fighters, armed with guns and grenade launchers, blew holes in the perimeter wall, the police said. Some fighters were disguised as policemen, while others wore suicide-bomb vests.
警方称，有多达150名装配了枪支和榴弹发射器的武装分子，在围墙上炸开了洞。一些武装分子伪装成警察，其他一些则身穿自杀式炸弹背心。
As they stormed the building, breaking open cells, the attackers used a megaphone to call out names of specific prisoners and cried, “God is great” and “Long live the Taliban,” security officials said.
安全官员称，在袭击者冲进监狱砸开牢房后，他们使用扩音器喊出了某些囚犯的名字，并呼喊道“真主至大”和“塔利班万岁”。
The provincial authorities said the escaped prisoners included 25 militants with the Taliban and Lashkar-e-Taiba, a sectarian militant group that has killed hundreds of minority Shiites this year.
省级政府机关称，逃脱的囚犯中包括25名塔利班和虔诚军(Lashkar-e-Taiba)的武装分子。虔诚军是一个宗派武装组织，今年已经杀害了数以百计的什叶派(Shiites)少数族群。
At least 14 people died in the assault, including 6 Shiite prisoners, several of whom were beheaded. The police said a squad of foreign militants, some from Uzbekistan, had helped secure a road to ensure that the militants could escape back to South Waziristan in the tribal belt.
至少有14人死于这次袭击，包括6名什叶派囚犯，其中几名遭斩首。警方称，一小队外国武装分子，其中一些来自乌兹别克斯坦，曾协助守住一条道路，以确保武装分子能逃回处于部落地带内的南瓦济里斯坦。
The assault followed a week of countrywide bloodshed that underscored the state’s crumbling ability to fight militant violence. Baluch nationalists attacked a coast guard post on the Arabian Sea in Baluchistan Province, killing seven people.
这次袭击前一周，全国范围内发生了一系列流血事件，突显出该国无力对抗武装暴力的事实。俾路支民族主义者袭击了俾路支省阿拉伯海地区的一处海岸警卫队驻地，杀死7人。
In Sukkar, in neighboring Sindh Province, Taliban militants attacked a regional office of the Inter-Services Intelligence spy agency, resulting in at least nine deaths. A double suicide bombing in the tribal belt, targeting Shiites, killed 57 people and wounded more than 150.
在临近省份信德省的苏库尔，塔利班武装分子袭击了三军情报局(Inter-Services Intelligence)的一间地区办公室，导致至少9人死亡。部落地带针对什叶派的连环自杀炸弹袭击杀死了57人，并使超过150人受伤。
And in Baluchistan on Tuesday, militants shot a police officer who had been guarding health workers administering polio vaccination drips to children in Pishin, a Taliban refuge near the Afghan border.
周二，在俾路支省，武装分子击中了一名警察，他曾负责保卫为皮辛地区的儿童注射脊髓灰质炎疫苗的卫生工作者。皮辛是一个靠近阿富汗边境的塔利班避难所。
Analysts said the spate of violence highlighted the failure of the country’s civilian and military leaders to deliver on promises of a coordinated counterterrorism strategy.
分析人士称，一系列暴力事件突显出，该国的文职和军职领导人，未能兑现协调一致实施反恐战略的承诺。
“Every day it seems the state is losing more and more control,” said Ahmed Rashid, an analyst and author of several books on the Taliban. “The attacks are occurring across the country, and becoming more pernicious. The militants can see that the government doesn’t have a national security plan.”
“看起来，每一天国家失控的局面都在加重，”曾著有几本关于塔利班的书的分析人士艾哈迈德·拉希德(Ahmed Rashid)说。“这类袭击在全国各地出现，并且死伤人数越来越多。武装分子可以看出，政府并没有一个全国性的安全计划。”
Mr. Rashid said there seemed to be “a lot of dithering and debate” between the army, led by Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, and the government, led by Mr. Sharif. “And we still don’t have a plan,” he said.
拉希德表示，在阿什法克·帕尔韦兹·卡亚尼将军(Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani)领导的军队和谢里夫领导的政府之间，似乎有“许多的犹疑和辩论”。他说，“我们还是没有一个计划。”
Some blame for the Taliban jailbreak fell on the former cricketer Imran Khan, whose party has led Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa Province, where Dera Ismail Khan is, since the election in May.
一些人认为，前板球运动员伊姆兰·汗(Imran Khan)应对塔利班的劫狱事件负责。自从5月大选以来，伊姆兰·汗的政党就开始领导德拉伊斯梅尔汗所在的开伯尔-普什图省。
Mr. Khan favors talking to the Taliban instead of fighting them, and has frequently attributed the chaos in the region to the presence of American troops in Afghanistan and C.I.A. drone strikes in the tribal belt.
伊姆兰·汗更愿意与塔利班对话，而不是与他们作战。他常常将本地区的混乱局面归咎于驻扎在阿富汗的美国军队，以及CIA对部落地带实施的无人机打击。
His provincial government faced fresh criticism on Tuesday after it emerged that the intelligence services had warned of the jailbreak just three days earlier. In a letter marked “secret,” which The New York Times has seen, intelligence officials warned that militants led by Umer Khitab had obtained a map of the jail and were preparing an assault similar to a jailbreak in Bannu in April 2012.
周二，当人们发现，三军情报局早在三天前就对劫狱事件发出了警告，伊姆兰·汗领导的省政府遭到了更多的指责。在《纽约时报》见到的一封标记为“保密”的信件中，情报官员警告说，奥马尔·希特布(Umer Khitab)领导的武装分子已经取得了一张该监狱的地图，正在筹备一次和2012年4月本努劫狱事件相似的攻击行动。
Speaking outside Parliament on Tuesday, Mr. Khan blamed administrative failures of officials of the previous government for the lapses, saying they “had allowed themselves to be part of America’s war.”
周二，伊姆兰·汗在议会外发表讲话，他认为是前任政府官员的执政失败导致了这些错误，他说他们“让自己成了美国的战争中的一份子”。
Political wrangling over Pakistan’s relationship with America formed part of the general criticism of Mr. Zardari, the departing president, who otherwise spent much of his five-year term in rolling battles with judicial and military leaders, all the while struggling to shake off longstanding corruption accusations.
在即将离任的总统扎尔达里受到的广泛批评中，巴美关系引发的政治角力占据了其中的一部分。除此以外，扎尔达里五年任期的多数时间都在与司法和军队系统的领导人进行无休止的斗争，同时还需要努力摆脱存在已久的腐败指控。
Mr. Zardari’s political authority stemmed largely from his status as the widower of Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister, who was assassinated in 2007. He confounded his many critics, who regularly predicted his political demise, through adroit maneuvering. He survived intense pressure from the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry.
扎尔达里的政治权威从很大程度上来源于，他是前总理贝娜齐尔·布托(Benazir Bhutto)的鳏夫。2007年，贝·布托遇刺身亡。他的批评者常常预测他政治生涯的终结，而他却凭借灵巧的策略，打破了批评者的预期。他顶住了来自最高法院(Supreme Court)首席大法官伊夫蒂哈尔·穆罕默德·乔杜里(Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry)的巨大压力，保住了自己的位子。
And he initiated constitutional changes that drained the presidency of power in a bid to make it more difficult for the military to meddle directly in politics.
他启动了宪法改革，削减总统的权力，以此增加军方直接干预政治的难度。
If Mr. Zardari owed much of his power to his high-profile marriage, Mr. Hussain’s main qualification seems to be his low profile.
如果说扎尔达里取得权力主要依靠的是他的高调婚姻，那么侯赛因的主要资格看来则是他的低调作风。
Born in India in 1940, Mr. Hussain served briefly as the governor of Sindh Province in 1999, when Gen. Pervez Musharraf toppled Mr. Sharif’s previous government in a bloodless coup. Mr. Hussain remained a steadfast ally of Mr. Sharif in those days, defying military pressure and intimidation.
侯赛因于1940年生于印度。1999年，佩尔韦兹·穆沙拉夫上将(Gen. Pervez Musharraf)通过不流血的政变推翻了谢里夫领导的上一届政府，之后侯赛因曾短暂地担任信德省省长。在那个时期，侯赛因无视来自军方的压力和威胁，一直是谢里夫的坚定盟友。
But his ventures into electoral politics were less successful; he failed to win a parliamentary seat in 2002 and since then had concentrated largely on his textile business.
但是他在选举政治领域的探索却没那么成功；2002年，他没能赢得议席，自那以后，他就将主要精力投入到了自己的纺织企业。
Political analysts say the presidency may be his reward for his unflinching loyalty to the Sharif family. Before his victory on Tuesday, he promised to use the office to restore peace in Karachi, his native city, which is riven by ethnic political violence.
政治分析人士表示，他获得总统一职，或许是他长期以来一直忠诚于谢里夫家族所获得的回报。在他周二获胜以前，他承诺会在总统任上恢复卡拉奇的和平。侯赛因生于卡拉奇，而现在卡拉奇已被族群和政治暴力撕扯得四分五裂。