MUNICH — IT is election season in Germany, and Angela Merkel, the chancellor, is living through her worst nightmare. The allegedly most powerful female politician on the planet hates campaign politics.
慕尼黑——现在是德国的选举季，总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)正经历着最糟糕的噩梦。这位所谓的地球上权力最大的女政治家讨厌竞选政治。
Ms. Merkel should be confident and upbeat. She has managed the euro crisis quite well; the currency hasn’t collapsed, and Germans are doing fine economically. She leads in the polls by a strong margin and enjoys remarkable approval ratings, despite being in office for eight years. There is almost no chance of her losing her post when voters go to the polls on Sept. 22.
默克尔本应充满信心、十分乐观。她很好地处理了欧元危机；欧元没有崩溃，德国在经济方面也表现得不错。尽管已经执政八年，她在民调中依然遥遥领先，还获得了相当高的支持率。投票定于9月22日进行，默克尔届时落选的可能性几乎为零。
Still, something smells foul, and Ms. Merkel is gripped by that wariness that usually befalls her when things are going too well. And this time she may be on to something: is the woman who has succeeded through an iron commitment to consensus and harmony too boring for Germany?
但还是有些不对劲的地方，默克尔也慎之又慎。当事情进展得太过顺利时，她通常就会这样。这一次，她的担心或许有一定的道理：对于德国来说，一个通过恪守共识与协调而获得成功的女领导人太过无趣了吗？
Ms. Merkel has never been good on the stump. She was elected chancellor twice, but for her, elections evoke a sense of trauma. After all, she almost lost to Gerhard Schröder in 2005 despite a comfortable lead in the polls. Four years later, despite strong poll numbers, she again did worse than expected on Election Day, though her position was secured by her strong coalition partner, the Free Democrats.
默克尔从来都不擅长竞选演说。她已两次当选总理，但选举还是会触发她心中的精神创伤之感。毕竟在2005年，她差点输给格哈特·施罗德(Gerhard Schröder)，尽管她当时在民调中具有明显的领先优势。四年后，虽说获得了良好的民调数据，她在选举日的表现再一次不及预期。不过，强大的联盟伙伴自由民主党(Free Democrats)帮她保住了总理宝座。
When it comes to elections, Ms. Merkel really is a bad politician. She has never managed to relax and show confidence on the campaign trail.
从选举方面看，默克尔的确是一个差劲的政坛人物。她在竞选过程中从来都不会放松，不能显示出自信。
In her only TV debate with her main challenger, Peer Steinbrück of the left-leaning Social Democrats, she seemed distant and passive. On the stump she only recently went into attack mode — and shied back again immediately.
在与主要对手——左倾政党社会民主党(Social Democrats)的佩尔·施泰因布吕克(Peer Steinbrück)——举行的唯一一次电视辩论中，默克尔显得冷漠而被动。直到最近的竞选演讲，她才进入攻击模式，然后立即再次退缩。
On Syria, she tried to offer support for America’s efforts against the use of chemical weapons while also heeding the German public’s aversion to military action — only to find herself vulnerable to criticism that she would either follow President Obama blindly or leave him in the lurch, as she did during the Libya crisis.
在叙利亚问题上，默克尔试图支持美国反对使用化学武器的举措，与此同时又想倾听厌恶动武的民意。结果却发现，她无论如何都会遭受批评，要么是被批盲目跟在奥巴马总统的身后，要么是被批弃他于危难中而不顾，就像在利比亚危机期间那样。
She is not a fascinating speaker, though in private she is highly engaging and even funny. She rarely makes a bold move, and even on minor issues she is cautious and thinks through the possible consequences over and over again.
默克尔私下里很有亲和力，甚至可以说是富有幽默感，但她不是一个吸引人的演讲者。她很少采取大胆的举措，即便在一些小问题上，她都小心谨慎，一再考虑可能出现的后果。
The paradox is that such weaknesses on the trail are strengths in office. The chancellor’s signature mark is her deliberate, argument-driven, boring, clinical policy style. She takes a problem, cuts it into pieces and tries to find a solution, often heavily technical and always very detailed.
矛盾的是，这种选举中的弱势正是执政期间的优势。默克尔的标志是她慎重、由论据推动、枯燥却精准有效的政策风格。处理问题时，她会将其拆分开来，努力找到解决办法——通常都是技术性强且非常精细的办法。
During the height of the euro crisis, this calm and deliberate style helped her, and though she has her critics, she is arguably responsible for saving the euro zone.
在欧元危机的高峰期，这种冷静而谨慎的风格帮助了默克尔。虽然她也遭受了批评，但可以说，是她拯救了欧元区。
So why is she such a coward in the campaign? Why is she not cashing in and investing some of the political capital she has amassed? Because Ms. Merkel can’t beat her worst enemy: herself.
那么，默克尔在选举中为何会如此怯懦呢？她为什么不利用或投入她积累的部分政治资本呢？因为她无法打败最大的敌人：她自己。
Ms. Merkel is the master of harmony, the den mother of one of the world’s richest economies. But that style almost by definition prevents her from taking the offensive during a campaign.
默克尔是协调大师，守护着世界上最富有的经济体之一。不过，这种风格本质上使她无法在竞选期间采取攻势。
And, after eight years in office, Ms. Merkel’s calm, deliberative style may have run its course with German voters. She has basically suffocated most of her political opponents by absorbing their positions, leaving no oxygen for them to breathe. Critics accuse her of sucking all blood from the political life in Germany — a country that loves consensus and is suspicious of too much fighting.
此外，执政八年后，默克尔冷静而谨慎的风格或许已经在德国选民心中走到了头。通过吸收政治对手的立场，她基本上压制了他们中间的大部分，扼杀了供他们呼吸的空间。一些批评人士指责她吸干了德国政治生活的血液，而该国本就热爱共识，对太多争斗心存怀疑。
People want to know what they have to expect over the next four years. They want to have a choice. They deserve more than a hint on how the most powerful country in Europe finally wants to overcome the crisis on the Continent.
人们想要知道，接下来四年将会发生什么。他们希望有所选择。有关这个欧洲最强大的国家最终想要如何战胜欧洲大陆的危机，他们理应获得的不仅仅是暗示。
Ms. Merkel knows this, but she won’t change. She dislikes being compared to Margaret Thatcher, but she subscribes to Mrs. Thatcher’s famous dictum: “The lady’s not for turning.” This may come as a shock abroad, where Germany’s neighbors are waiting for Election Day as if it were Christmas. They want and expect to see Germany live up to its potential as a world leader, whether it is on economic or security matters.
默克尔知道这一点，但她不会做出改变。虽说讨厌被拿来与玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)比较，但她认同撒切尔的名言：“我绝不会动摇。”这一点或许会让其他国家受到打击。众邻国正期盼着德国选举日的到来，仿佛这是圣诞节一样。他们希望并期望看到，德国发挥作为世界领袖的潜力，无论是在经济问题还是安全问题上。
But there are no gifts awaiting, no new, more robust German foreign policy to emerge after the distractions of the election. No miracles will be performed on Sept. 22.
但不会有什么礼物到来。选举的小插曲过后，德国不会浮现更为强大的全新外交政策。9月22日那天，没有奇迹上演。
Regardless of whether she dominates the election or just squeaks by, Ms. Merkel will govern in the same boring, deliberate style as before. Step by step, crisis after crisis.
不论是强势当选，还是勉强获胜，默克尔都将保持一成不变的无聊而谨慎的执政风格。按部就班地，应对一次又一次危机。
To seal her legacy as a great chancellor, Ms. Merkel must now reinvent herself and show more leadership, both at home and abroad. She needs to take a risk or two, and even be prepared to lose.
为了确保作为一名伟大总理的政治遗产，默克尔必须立即在国内外重塑形象，展现更多的领导力。她需要冒一两次险，甚至做好输的准备。
She could afford it — but will she?
她输得起，问题是，她会这么做吗？