“When I was 7, I knew exactly who I was.” With these words, Violet, the principal narrator of Amy Tan’s latest novel, “The Valley of Amazement,” begins her story. Yet over the course of the book, Violet’s certainty about her identity — and nearly everything else — will be turned upside down.
“七岁那年，我就已经清楚地知道自己是谁，”在故事的开头，谭恩美新作《惊奇谷》(The Valley of Amazement)中的主要叙述者紫罗兰(Violet)这样说道。然而，随着小说情节的展开，紫罗兰对自己的身份，乃至几乎所有事情的认知，都将发生天翻地覆的变化。
An American child (or so she thinks), Violet lives in Shanghai in 1905, in an establishment called Hidden Jade Path, a first-class courtesan house that caters to both Westerners and Chinese. It is run by her cool, aloof and seductive mother, who goes by several names, among them Lulu Mimi. A lonely, difficult child — one of Tan’s signature prickly heroines — Violet takes solace in playing with her ferocious pet cat and in spying on the courtesans’ lovemaking. She yearns for her mother’s affection — and for any clue about the identity of her father.
紫罗兰是一个美国小孩，或者说她认为自己是一个美国小孩。1905年，她居住在上海的一处名叫藏玉幽径(Hidden Jade Path)的娱乐场所，那是家上等妓院，既招待西方人，也招待中国人。妓院的经营者，也就是她那冷漠、孤傲、性感的母亲，有若干个花名，比如露露咪咪(Lulu Mimi)。紫罗兰是谭恩美笔下典型的性格带刺的女主人公：这个孤独而纠结的孩子，只能通过和坏脾气的宠物猫玩耍，以及偷看妓女做爱来寻求安慰。她渴望得到母亲的关爱，渴望得到有关生父身份的任何线索。
Seven years later, in 1912, the year of the dowager empress’s abdication and the founding of the Chinese republic, a suave man called Lu Shing comes to visit. Eavesdropping, Violet is amazed to hear her mother expressing feelings she never thought Lulu had. With a shock of horror, Violet realizes that Lu Shing is her father — which means she is half Chinese, caught between two very different societies and fitting into neither. Worse, she has an unknown brother back in California, a boy her mother seems to love far more than she loves Violet. Desperate to see him, Lulu sails for San Francisco. In an unexpected plot twist, Violet is left behind.
七年后的1912年，即皇太后颁布清帝逊位诏书、中华民国成立那年，一个名叫路成(Lu Shing)的儒雅男人突然造访。紫罗兰恰好偷听到露露向路成表露真情，这让她感到惊讶，因为她从未料到母亲心中还会有这样的情愫。紫罗兰极度震惊地意识到，路成就是自己的生父，这意味着她是半个中国人，卡在两个迥然不同的社会中间，无法融入任何一个。更糟糕的是，紫罗兰在加利福尼亚还有一个从未谋面的哥哥，而且她母亲爱那个男孩似乎远远超过爱她。露露极度渴望想见到儿子，于是乘船前往了旧金山。经过这个始料未及的情节转折，紫罗兰被留了下来。
This is just the beginning of a long and ultimately heart-wrenching narrative that covers more than four decades and moves from Shanghai in the 1920s and ’30s to the Hudson River Valley to a mountain village in rural China, with an interlude of backtracking in late-19th-century San Francisco. The epic history of these times is woven into the complex background of the story of three generations of women, its events seen as they would have seen them. Their private lives and private pain take center stage.
至此，一个令人心痛的漫长故事才刚刚开了个头。它在跨度上超过了40年，场景从上世纪二三十年代的上海，转移到哈德逊河谷，又转到中国乡下的一座山村，有一段插曲还闪回到了19世纪末期的旧金山。这个故事关乎三代女性，作者把这些时代史诗般的历史，融入到了复杂的故事背景中，讲述了她们应当会看到的时代大事。她们隐秘的生活和隐秘的痛楚，则是故事的焦点所在。
Sold to a courtesan house by a loathsome yet charming friend of her mother’s, Violet is reunited with one of the women she knew at Hidden Jade Path, a kind soul called Magic Gourd, who teaches her young charge how to survive the tough courtesan world — what songs to sing, what stories to tell and how to tell them, when to give a coquettish sideways glance, how to identify the best clients and manipulate them into giving expensive gifts. But when Violet meets a man named Loyalty Fang, all these instructions fly out the window. Violet refuses to acknowledge that, like all Chinese men, he will marry the woman his family chooses. For him and her other suitors, she will always be just “a singing sparrow in a cage.”
紫罗兰被母亲的一个可恶但却迷人的朋友卖进妓院后，遇到了在藏玉幽径结识的心地善良的女子妙葫芦(Magic Gourd)。妙葫芦对这个孩子照拂有加，教会她如何在无情的妓女圈子里生存下去：要唱什么样的歌，讲什么样的故事，以及怎样讲故事，在什么时候奉上风情万种的斜斜的一瞥，还有怎样辨别最好的恩客，怎样耍手段让他们给自己买昂贵礼物。但当紫罗兰与一个名叫范忠(Loyalty Fang)的男人相遇时，所有这些教导都被抛到了九霄云外。紫罗兰不愿承认，他和所有的中国男人一样，也会和家庭为他选择的女人结婚。在范忠以及其他追求者眼里，她终归只是“一只会唱歌的笼中雀”。
Reluctantly, Violet learns to treat her life as the other courtesans do, as a job. Many customers later, an earnest American named Edward Ivory offers “solace, companionship and the careful mending of wounds.” Ivory also has a wife — in his case, safely back in America — so Violet moves in with him and they have a child, a daughter called Flora. But the Spanish flu epidemic of 1918 and the appearance of the real Mrs. Ivory threaten Violet’s new life.
虽然不情愿，但紫罗兰还是得学其他妓女的样子，把自己的生活当作工作来对待。她又接触了许多客人，之后真诚的美国男子爱德华·艾沃里(Edward Ivory)出现了，他会“安慰她，陪伴她，悉心地抚慰她的伤痛”。艾沃里也是有妻室的人，但他的妻子待在美国，不构成威胁，所以紫罗兰就搬去与他同居。两人还生了个孩子，是个女儿，叫弗洛拉(Flora)。但1918年西班牙流感疫情的蔓延，以及艾沃里正室的出现，让紫罗兰的新生活岌岌可危。
Although the narrative becomes progressively darker, Magic Gourd is always there to inject a note of humor. But when she and Violet attempt to escape the increasing instability and danger of Shanghai and make the grueling journey to Moon Pond Village, the supposedly peaceful ancestral home of a Chinese poet, even she finds it difficult to cope with their dismal prospects.
故事变得越来越阴暗，但妙葫芦总能适时地给它增添一点幽默。不过，当她和紫罗兰试图逃离日益动荡和危险的上海，历尽艰险赶往月塘村(Moon Pond Village)的途中，就连她都觉得难以应付她们的惨淡未来。月塘村据信是某个中国诗人的故里，一个宁静祥和的地方。
It’s only at this point that Tan begins to share Violet’s mother’s story, turning the clock back to 1897 San Francisco. Far from the cold and calculating figure Violet knew as Lulu, Lucia Minturn is revealed as an adventurous young woman who defies her family and sails to Shanghai in the vain hope of marrying her Chinese lover: “I had let infatuation guide me . . . toward a golden vale that did not exist, toward a city at the other end of the sea.” Gradually, the puzzle pieces of the plot fall into place.
直到此刻，谭恩美才让时光倒退回1897年的旧金山，开始讲述紫罗兰母亲的故事。与紫罗兰眼中冷漠、工于心计的露露相去甚远，那时的她，还叫作露西娅·明特恩(Lucia Minturn)，是一个勇于冒险的年轻女子。她违背家人的意志，飘洋过海来到上海，希望能和自己的中国情人结婚，但这一切只是徒劳：“我被痴恋牵引着……走向了一个根本不存在的金色山谷，漂到了伫立在大海另一端的城市。”渐渐地，散碎的情节拼凑成一副一目了然的拼图。
That “golden vale that did not exist” is depicted in “The Valley of Amazement,” the enigmatic painting that gives the novel its title. It’s everywhere and everything — the view from the mansion where Violet’s American lover lived as a boy, Violet’s first sight of Moon Pond Village, even an expression of her mother’s “immortal spirit.” Each person finds a different message in this landscape. “Was the painting meant to depict a feeling of hope or was it hopelessness?” Violet wonders when she first sees it. “The painting reminded me of those illusions that changed as you turned them upside down or sideways.”
这本小说的名字取自一幅名叫《惊奇谷》的神秘画作，但画中所描绘的“金色山谷并不存在”。它可能是任何地方的任何事物，比如从紫罗兰的美国情人儿时住过的大厦眺望时，看到的风景；再比如紫罗兰第一眼看到月塘村时的景象；甚至可能是她母亲的“不朽魂魄”的体现。每个人都能从这幅风景画中读到不同的信息。“这幅画要传达的情感是希望还是绝望？”紫罗兰第一次看到它时，感到疑惑不解。“这幅画让我想起了那些错觉画，如果倒过来看或者从侧面看，就会看到不同的图景。”
Written in Tan’s characteristically economical and matter-of-fact style, “The Valley of Amazement” is filled with memorably idiosyncratic characters. And its array of colorful multilayered stories is given further depth by Tan’s affecting depictions of mothers and daughters. Here are strong women struggling to survive all that life has to throw at them, created by a writer skilled at evoking the roil of emotions and mad exploits they experience when they follow their hearts.
《惊奇谷》是谭恩美以她一贯简洁确凿的笔触写就的，书中满是令人难忘的与众不同的人物。谭恩美对母女关系的描写非常感人，从而让书中一系列丰富多彩，贯穿多个层次故事显得更具深度。面对着生活摆在她们面前的种种艰辛，书中坚强的女性会竭力求存，而她们的创作者则非常善于呈现她们听从内心召唤时，遭遇的澎湃情感和疯狂际遇。