SEOUL, South Korea — South Korea is one of the world’s most digitally advanced countries. It has ubiquitous broadband, running at speeds that many Americans can only envy. Its Internet is also one of the most quirky in the world.
韩国首尔——韩国是世界上数字基础设施最发达的国家之一。宽带无处不在，网速让很多美国人心生嫉妒。但同时它又拥有世上最古怪的一个互联网。
A curfew restricts school-age children from playing online games at night; adults wanting to do so need to provide their resident registration numbers to prove that they are of age.
韩国不允许学龄儿童晚上玩网络游戏；成年人想在晚上玩游戏，则需要提供常住登记号码，以证明自己已经成年。
Until last year, commenters on the Web were legally required to use their real names. A simple Web search in Korean can be a fruitless experience, because the operators of many sites, including some government ministries, bar search engines from indexing their pages.
直到去年，人们在网上发表评论还是必须依法使用实名的。在网络上搜索资料可能会一无所获，因为很多韩国网站，包括一些政府部门网站，都拒绝搜索引擎把自己的网页编入索引。
Travelers who want to go from Gimpo International Airport to the Gangnam neighborhood of Seoul cannot rely on Google Maps. Google Maps can provide directions only for public transport, not for driving, to any place in Korea. Anyone crazy enough to try the journey on bicycle or on foot, directions for which Google Maps provides elsewhere, will be similarly stymied.
想从金浦国际机场前往首尔江南区的旅行者，无法从谷歌地图得到有效帮助。在整个韩国，谷歌地图都只能提供公交搭乘路线，驾车路线欠奉。如果你疯狂到打算骑自行车或徒步旅行，谷歌地图在其他国家提供的路线服务，在韩国也会遇到类似的限制。
The highly regulated Internet comes as a surprise to many people, Koreans included, because South Korea is a strong democracy with a vibrant economy seemingly ready for the digital information age. South Koreans were early adopters of Internet games and smartphones. It has world-beating electronics companies like Samsung and LG. But here the Internet is just different.
韩国互联网受到的高度管制，让包括该国人在内的很多人都感到惊讶，因为韩国非常民主，经济也充满活力，看上去似乎为数字信息时代做好了准备。韩国人很早就接受网游和智能手机，一些韩国电子公司，比如三星(Samsung)和LG，在国际上拥有巨大的影响力。但这里的互联网就完全是另一回事了。
The Korean government has its reasons, most of them well-intentioned. The curfew, for example, was put in place two years ago to deal with concerns about game addiction among teenagers.
韩国政府这样做也有自己的原因，而且大部分都是出于善意。例如，由于担忧青少年对游戏成瘾，两年前韩国开始禁止儿童在晚上玩网络游戏。
South Korean security restrictions that were put in place more than half a century ago after the Korean War limit Google’s maps, the company says. The export of map data is barred, ostensibly to prevent it from falling into the hands of South Korea’s foe to the north, across the world’s most heavily fortified border. Google and other foreign Internet companies say the rule also prevents them from providing online mapping services, like navigation, that travelers have come to rely on in much of the rest of the world.
谷歌公司说，令谷歌地图受阻的韩国安全限制措施，是在半个多世纪前朝鲜战争结束后制定的。它禁止地图数据出口国外，以免它们跨越世界上戒备最森严的边境，落入敌国朝鲜之手。谷歌等国外互联网公司说，这些规定还导致它们无法提供在线地图服务，比如旅行者在大部分其他国家都可以享受的导航服务。
The Korea Communications Standards Commission, a regulatory panel, blocks material on the Web that it deems objectionable. This can include pornography, the production of which is technically illegal in South Korea.
作为一家监管机构，韩国通信标准委员会(Korea Communications Standards Commission)会封禁它认为有问题的信息，比如色情内容。从理论上说，在韩国制作色情内容是违法的。
“It’s ironic, in a country that is widely recognized for its advanced digital infrastructure, that there are so many restrictions on the Internet in Korea,” said Kim Keechang, a professor at Korea University who is writing a book on Internet regulation in South Korea.
“韩国因其先进的数字基础设施受到了广泛赞誉，但在这里上网却有那么多的限制，这真是讽刺，”高丽大学(Korea University)教授金基昌（Kim Keechang，音译）说。他正在写一本关于韩国互联网监管的书。
Foreign Internet companies say the country’s rules prevent them from competing against domestic rivals because they cannot provide the same services they do elsewhere. South Korea is one of the few major markets where Google is not the leading search engine. A South Korean rival, Naver, has the most users.
外国互联网公司说，韩国的规定让它们无法跟本土对手竞争，因为它们无法在韩国提供可以在其他国家提供的服务。在全球主要市场中，谷歌没能成为头号搜索引擎的只有寥寥几处地方，韩国就是其中之一。在韩国，本土搜索引擎Naver的用户数量最多。
But domestic criticism of the Korean approach to Internet regulation is growing. Civil liberties advocates successfully challenged the rule requiring users of Internet discussion groups to provide their real names, verified by a national identity registration system. A court last year struck down the measure, which was introduced in 2007 to try to curb online bullying after a rash of suicides.
但是，在韩国国内，人们对互联网监管政策的批评也日益高涨。比如，在遭到公民自由权益倡导者的反对后，使用韩国身份验登记系统来验证的网上讨论小组成员实名制去年被一家法院推翻。这项规定是在一连串自杀事件发生后，于2007年颁布的，目的是遏制网上欺凌现象。
Now the government of President Park Geun-hye is moving to ease some of the Internet regulations that previous administrations put in place. Ms. Park wants to encourage creativity in the South Korean high-technology industry, which is very good at developing hardware like smartphones and television sets but not as good at exporting software and services. Critics say the different rules that South Korean companies have to play by at home and abroad limit their ability to think in a worldly fashion.
韩国现任总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)，正在着手取消往届政府颁布的部分互联网监管法规。朴槿惠希望此举能激发韩国高科技行业的创造力，该行业在研制智能手机和电视机等硬件方面表现非常出色，但在软件和服务出口方面差强人意。批评人士说，韩国公司在国内和国外面临不同的规则，这妨碍了它们从全球的角度思考。
In September, the government promised to ease the restrictions on online mapping services. The National Geographic Information Institute, part of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, said it would make an official English-language digital map available to Internet companies, beginning this month for companies based in South Korea. The ministry said it was changing its policy to help foreign Internet companies and to clear up uncertainties over Korean place names.
今年9月，韩国政府承诺放宽对在线地图服务的限制。隶属于韩国国土交通部(South Korean Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport)的全国地理信息研究所(The National Geographic Information Institute)表示，它会制作一份官方英文数字地图，从本月开始提供给互联网公司，最先获得这份地图的是总部设在韩国的公司。韩国国土交通部说，它会改变政策，来为外国互联网公司提供帮助，并对韩国地名中的一些不确定的地方进行明确。
The move comes at the same time as a new flare-up in a longstanding dispute over a group of islets between South Korea and Japan that are known variously as the Dokdo in Korea, the Takeshima in Japan and the Liancourt Rocks in some other places. (The islands are either in the Sea of Japan or the East Sea, which is another naming dispute.) For Google and other foreign companies, there is a hitch. They will be permitted to use the map as of next year, on a case-by-case basis. Now, Google adapts its English-language maps of South Korea from the government’s Korean-language maps. Google is permitted to provide directions using public transit systems like the Seoul subway, because train and bus routes and schedules are available through public records.
这项举措的推出，正值韩日长期领土争端再起波澜之际，相关岛屿在韩国称为独岛，在日本称为竹岛，在其他一些地方则称为利扬库尔岩（这些岛屿所在的海域也存在命名之争，或称日本海，或称东海）。对于谷歌和其他外国公司来说，这里还存在一些制约。它们将逐个获许从明年起使用这份地图。目前，谷歌根据韩国政府的韩语地图调整公司的英语版韩国地图。谷歌可以根据公交系统来提供交通路线，比如首尔地铁，因为火车和巴士的路线和班次都可以在公共记录中找到。
But Google says other sophisticated map enhancements, like driving directions, traffic information, three-dimensional modeling of cities and indoor floor plans of airports and shopping centers, require the company to process the data at its servers outside South Korea. This would constitute an export of the map data, which has been forbidden until now.
但谷歌表示，其他比较复杂的高级地图功能，比如行车路线、交通信息、城市的三维建模，机场和购物中心的室内平面图，都需要该公司在韩国以外的服务器上处理数据。这就会构成至今被禁止的地图数据出口行为。
Google says the policy change announced by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport does not go far enough. That is because the scale of the new official, English-language map is limited to 1:25,000, which the company says is insufficient to provide details that Google Maps users take for granted elsewhere.
谷歌说，韩国国土交通部改变政策的力度还远远不够。因为新的官方英语地图存在1:25000的比例限制，不能为谷歌地图的用户提供可以在其他国家轻松享受的详细信息。
“Maps at the lower resolution don’t have accurate enough information to guide people and cars through intersections, sidewalks, bike lanes, pedestrian overpasses and many points of interest,” the company said in a statement.
“这份地图分辨率较低，缺乏足够准确的信息来指引行人和车辆通过交叉路口、人行道、自行车道、行人过街天桥和很多景点，”谷歌在一份声明中说。
Google maintains that the rules are unfair because domestic Internet companies like Naver are able to provide online navigation and other mapping services, even to users outside the country. That is because Naver’s servers are housed in South Korea. For many foreign visitors, though, Naver’s maps are of limited use, because they are available only in Korean.
谷歌认为，这些规则很不公平，因为像Naver这样的韩国本土互联网公司就可以提供在线导航以及其他地图服务，即使是其他国家的用户也能享受这些服务。这是因为Naver的服务器架设在韩国。不过，对于许多外国游客来说，Naver地图的用途并不大，因为它只有韩语版。
“We just think any services should be carried out within the framework of the law,” Google said. “The same laws should apply to all providers of Web map services, domestic or foreign.”
“我们只是觉得，在法律框架之内，任何服务都应该可以开展，”谷歌说。“无论是韩国还是外国的网络地图服务服务商，适用的都应该是同一套法律。”