Whether you are looking to buy a power tool or neon jeans online, chances are you start your search on Google or Amazon.com. But which one?
不管你是想在网上买个电动工具，还是彩色牛仔裤，你很可能会用谷歌(Google)或亚马逊(Amazon.com)开始搜索。不过，到底用哪一个呢？
Behind the scenes, the two companies are waging a war to become the pre-eminent online mall. And e-commerce sites large and small are caught in the cross-fire. As for consumers, the question is whether they will see a full range of products available online.
为了成为顶尖网络商城，这两家公司在私底下开始了一场较量。大大小小的电子商务网站都卷入了双方的战火。对于消费者来说，最重要的是，他们能否在网上看到品种齐全的商品。
Google is a search engine, not a store, but it is increasingly inching into e-commerce with products like its comparison-shopping service, Google Shopping. At the same time, more people are using Amazon, a retailer, as a search engine to look for what they want to buy.
虽然谷歌是搜索引擎，而不是网店，但是它依靠自己的对比购物服务平台谷歌购物(Google Shopping) 之类的产品，正在逐渐朝电子商务领域进军。与此同时，用网络零售商亚马逊作为搜索引擎来搜索自己想购买商品的人越来越多。
Trying to stave off the competition from Amazon, Google has recently changed Google Shopping to require e-commerce companies to pay to be included in shopping results, so product listings are now ads. Inclusion used to be free. If a company does not pay to be listed, consumers will not see what they have to offer.
为了回避亚马逊的冲击，谷歌最近对谷歌购物做了一些更改，开始要求那些想出现在与购物相关的搜索结果中的电子商务网站公司支付费用。所以，现在的产品清单就是广告。出现在搜索结果中曾经是免费的。现在，如果某家公司不为此付费，消费者就无法看到他们的产品信息。
Google says the change will improve its shopping results because retailers are more likely to list accurate and up-to-date items if they are paying. It says the service had become polluted with product listings that were out of date or misled consumers about things like shipping prices.
谷歌表示，这项改变将会提高与购物相关的搜索结果的质量，因为如果付费的话，零售商会更倾向于把精确的、最新的产品罗列出来。它还说，那些过时的或是在配送价格等方面对消费者产生了误导的产品信息，对搜索服务造成了污染。
By requiring retailers to pay for listings, “incentives are aligned to make sure the data we’re receiving is of a higher quality,” said Sameer Samat, vice president for product management for Google Shopping, which used to be called Google Product Search and, before that, Froogle. “With better data, we can build a better experience for users.”
通过要求零售商为在搜索结果中出现而付费，“各种激励因素共同确保了我们所得到的数据质量更高，”谷歌购物的产品管理副总裁萨米尔·萨马特(Sameer Samat)说。谷歌购物曾叫做谷歌产品搜索(Google Product Search)，而更久之前则叫做Froogle。“有了质量更高的数据，我们就能为用户创造更好的体验。”
Although some retailers agree, and say the move could even help their sales, others are panicking. Some say they will not pay for listings or will include fewer products, which could shrink the selection shoppers see on Google.
虽然有些零售商对此表示同意，说此举甚至会帮他们提高销售量，但有的公司则很恐慌。它们表示，他们不会为在搜索结果中出现而支付费用，或者将列出更少的产品，这样，购物者们在谷歌上看到的选择就会减少。
The move is a way for Google to make more money from retailers, some of its most lucrative advertisers, but it also needs to improve product listings to keep valuable customers from going to Amazon.
通过这种方式，谷歌能从零售商手中赚取更多的钱，这些零售商都是能给它带来高收益的广告客户。但是，谷歌也需要提高产品搜索结果的质量，来防止那些有价值的客户转投亚马逊。
“Google and Amazon both have the same end goal, to be the destination that people go to do their product searches, and Amazon’s winning that battle,” said Michael Griffin, founder and chief technology officer of Adlucent, which does search marketing for online retailers and formerly managed Amazon’s paid search.
“谷歌和亚马逊都有一样的终极目标，即成为人们进行产品搜索的首选网站，而亚马逊在这场战争中占了上风，” Adlucent的创始人和首席技术官迈克尔·格里芬(Michael Griffin)说。这家公司为网络零售商提供搜索营销服务，以前还曾管理过亚马逊的付费搜索。
Meanwhile, Amazon has already removed its listings from Google Shopping. Looking for a Kindle? Google Shopping shows Kindles from Best Buy, eBay and sites called Fumfie and Glyde — but not Amazon.
同时，亚马逊已经从谷歌购物中移除了自己的商品清单。想找Kindle？谷歌购物所展示的Kindle搜索结果都来自百思买(Best Buy)、eBay和名叫Fumfie和格莱德(Glyde)的网站，就是没有亚马逊的。
Amazon, though, has not ruled out paying Google for inclusion of its products, according to a person briefed on its strategy who would speak only anonymously.
然而，据熟悉亚马逊策略的匿名人士透露，目前亚马逊还没有排除向谷歌付费的可能性，以便让自己的产品出现在谷歌的搜索结果中。
In 2009, a quarter of shoppers started research for an online purchase on a search engine like Google and 18 percent started on Amazon. By last year, a third started on Amazon and just 13 percent on a search engine, according to Forrester. Product searches on Amazon have grown 73 percent over the last year while searches on Google Shopping have been flat, according to comScore.
弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester)的数据显示，2009年，25%的消费者在网上购物时，都会首先到谷歌之类的搜索引擎上进行搜索，而先到亚马逊上进行搜索的只有18%。但是去年，三分之一的人都会先去亚马逊，只有13%的人会先利用搜索引擎进行搜索。根据康姆斯科(comScore)的统计数据，在过去一年中，亚马逊的产品搜索增加了73%，而谷歌购物则走势平平。
The shift to paid listings on Google Shopping began this summer and will be complete this fall. It is part of Google’s expanding e-commerce playbook, which also includes Wallet for payments, Offers for daily deals and the Google Shopper mobile app for finding items nearby.
谷歌购物向付费服务的转变开始于夏季，将会在秋季完成。这是谷歌正在扩大的电子商务计划的部分内容，这个计划还包括“付款钱包”(Wallet for payments)、“每日一购”(Offers for daily deals)，以及能让消费者在附近找到目标商品的“谷歌购物”(Google Shopper)手机应用软件等内容。
A search on the main Google site still shows search results from across the Web, which are never paid for, but it also brings up a box with product images, prices and descriptions that are paid for. If someone searches for a product on Google.com/shopping, all listings will be paid ones.
如果在谷歌主页上进行搜索，还是会显示从整个互联网上搜索到的结果，这些都是不收费的，但是，也会出现一个方框，显示产品照片、价格以及描述，这些则是付过费的。如果在Google.com/shopping搜索某个商品，则得到的所有搜索结果都是已经支付过相关费用的。
Most other comparison-shopping sites also have paid listings, including Yahoo Shopping, Nextag and PriceGrabber. Microsoft’s Bing Shopping is free for retailers except for some paid listings through a partnership with Shopping.com.
大多数其他的对比购物网站也提供付费服务，包括雅虎购物(Yahoo Shopping)、Nextag，和PriceGrabber。微软必应购物(Microsoft’s Bing Shopping)免费为零售商们提供服务，只有一些与Shopping.com合作的产品名录除外。
But most retailers say Google is the most important source of online shoppers, and some say they cannot afford to pay to list all their products.
但是，多数零售商都认为，谷歌是网络客户最重要的来源。也有些人说，他们承担不起把自己所有的产品都罗列出来的费用。
“If you’re a retailer and you don’t have the budgets of an Amazon, eBay, Best Buy or Wal-Mart, it’s going to be really challenging,” said Gerry Bavaro, senior vice president for performance media at Digitas, whose clients include Procter & Gamble.
“如果你是个零售商，又没有亚马逊、eBay，百思买或沃尔玛(Wal-Mart)那么大的预算，真的会很困难，” Digitas负责性能媒体的高级副总裁格里·巴瓦罗(Gerry Bavaro) 说。这家公司的客户包括宝洁(Procter & Gamble)。