SAN FRANCISCO — Those long-forgotten posts on social networks, from the pasta someone photographed to the rant about her dentist, are forgotten no more. Social networks want to make them easier to find, and in some cases, to show them in ads.
旧金山——社交网络上那些人们遗忘已久的帖子，从某人拍的意大利面照片，到对牙医的愤怒抱怨，再也不会被忘记了。社交网络希望让人更容易地找到过去的这些帖子，有的还会被放到广告里展示。
Google on Friday announced that it would soon be able to show users’ names, photos, ratings and comments in ads across the Web, endorsing marketers’ products. Facebook already runs similar endorsement ads. But on Thursday it, too, took a step to show personal information more broadly by changing its search settings to make it harder for users to hide from other people trying to find them on the social network.
谷歌(Google)周五宣布，它很快将能在整个互联网的广告中显示用户的名字、照片、打分以及评论，为市场推广者的产品作背书。Facebook此前已经在经营类似的背书广告。它也在周四采取行动，通过改变搜索设置，在更大范围内显示个人用户的信息，让用户比以往更难以在社交网络中隐藏起来，不被别人找到。
Both companies characterized these changes as minor updates. They are, though, the latest example of the continual push by Web companies to collate the reams of personal information shared online in the chase for profits. As Twitter prepares to go public and faces pressures to become profitable, it too will increasingly need to figure out how to make money from the information it collects.
两家公司均将这样的改变称为小幅度的更新。然而，这些举措却再一次证明，互联网公司为了追求利益，正在不断努力收集、汇总网上共享的海量个人信息。随着Twitter准备上市并面临赢利压力，它也会越来越迫切地需要找到办法，利用收集来的信息赚钱。
Google and Facebook say that with the most recent changes, they are trying to offer users more comprehensive and personalized services. The problem, privacy advocates say, is when Web companies use or display the personal information of users in ways the authors did not expect when they originally posted it.
谷歌和Facebook表示，最近的这些改变是为了向用户提供更全面、更个性化的服务。而隐私倡导者则表示，问题在于人们在最初发帖时不会想到互联网公司会这样使用或显示用户的个人信息。
“People expect when they give information, it’s for a single use, the obvious one,” said Dr. Deborah C. Peel, a psychoanalyst and founder of Patient Privacy Rights, an advocacy group. “That’s why the widening of something you place online makes people unhappy. It feels to them like a breach, a boundary violation.”
“人们在给出信息的时候认为，这些信息只做一种用途，最明显的那个用途，”精神分析学家、权益倡导组织病患隐私权益(Patient Privacy Rights)的创立者黛博拉·C·皮尔(Deborah C. Peel)博士说。“这就是为什么扩大在线发布信息的用途会让人们不高兴。对他们来说，这就好像是一种泄密、一种越界。”
“We set our own boundaries,” she added. “We don’t want them set by the government or Google or Facebook."
“我们的边界我们自己做主，”她补充说。“我们不想由政府、谷歌或Facebook来划界限。”
Dr. Peel said the rise of new services like Snapchat, which features person-to-person messages that disappear after they are opened, showed how much people wanted more control over how their information was shared.
皮尔博士表示，Snapchat这类新服务提供个人间的信息发送，消息一旦打开以后便会消失。这类服务的崛起显示出，人们多么希望对于他们所共享的信息有更多的控制权。
Still, the biggest Internet companies are pushing in the other direction, toward an expectation that more information is shown publicly. Google’s announcement came in an update to its terms of service that allows the company to include in ads adult users’ profile information and preferences, ratings and posts they have made on Google Plus and other Google services like search and YouTube.
然而最大的几家互联网公司的运作却与此背道而驰，它们希望能把更多的信息公开显示出来。谷歌的声明是以服务条款更新的形式发布，允许这家公司将成人用户的个人资料以及他们在Google Plus和搜索、YouTube等其他谷歌服务中发布的个人偏好、评分和帖子用在广告中。
When the new ad policy goes live on Nov. 11, Google will be able to show what the company calls shared endorsements on Google sites and across the Web, on the more than two million sites in Google’s display advertising network, which are viewed by an estimated one billion people. If a user follows a bakery on Google Plus or gives an album four stars on the Google Play music service, for instance, that person’s name, photo and endorsement could show up in ads for that bakery or album.
随着新的广告政策在11月11日开始实施，谷歌将能在其网站以及谷歌展示广告网络中的200多万个网站上显示所谓的“共享背书”。据估计，有10亿人会浏览这些展示广告网络站点。举例说，如果一位用户在Google Plus上关注一家烘焙店，或者在Google Play的音乐服务上给一张唱片评了四颗星，那么此人的名字、照片和背书就可能会显示在那家店或那张唱片的广告里。
Such product endorsements, especially from friends and acquaintances, are a powerful lure to brands, replicating word-of-mouth marketing on a broad scale. Social advertising — which includes a wide range of ads, including endorsements — is a $9.5 billion business, according to eMarketer, accounting for 8 percent of digital ad spending.
这样的产品背书，特别是来自朋友和熟人圈的产品背书，可以放大“口碑”式营销的规模，对品牌有极大的吸引力。据eMarketer称，社交媒体广告是一个价值95亿美元（约合580亿元人民币）的产业，占数字广告投入的8%，涉及包括产品背书在内的多种广告类型。
Many users, though, have strong and skeptical feelings about their endorsements being used in ads without their explicit permission. Facebook learned this the hard way when it was sued in a class action by users who claimed the company had not adequately notified them about how it was using endorsements.
然而，在未经明确许可的情况下在广告中使用用户的背书，还是激起了用户强烈的质疑。Facebook在尝到苦头之后已经意识到这一点，用户对它发起了一宗集体诉讼，指控公司没有就用户背书的使用充分知会用户。
Google may find, too, that by simply following a company or commenting on a post, users might not have meant their actions as endorsements.
此外谷歌也许还会发现，有时用户只是单纯地关注了一家公司，或在某篇帖子下面发表评论，这一举动不见得可以理解为用户在作背书。
“The trick to any advertising like this is to avoid coming across as creepy to your user base and have them say, ‘I didn’t want anyone else to know that,’ ” said Zachary Reiss-Davis, an analyst at Forrester Research.
“像这样的广告，关键的窍门在于不要让你的用户群觉得被偷窥了，惹得他们心想‘我不想让任何人知道这个，’”弗雷斯特研究公司(Forrester Research)分析师扎克里·雷斯-戴维斯(Zachary Reiss-Davis)说。
Google said it would give users the chance to opt out of being included in the new endorsements, and people under the age of 18 will automatically be excluded. If a Google Plus user has shared comments with a limited set of people, only people in that circle will see the personalized ads. Ratings and reviews on services like Google Plus Local are automatically public and can be used in ads, unless a user opts out of shared endorsements.
谷歌说用户可以选择不参与这种新的背书，18岁以下用户是自动被排除在外的。如果一个Google Plus用户将评论分享给一个有限的圈子，那么只有在那个圈里的人才能看到定制化的广告。在Google Plus Local这样的服务中，评分和评论默认是公开的，可以用在广告中，除非用户主动选择不参加背书分享。
Google declined to specify exactly how it planned to use endorsements in ads. Currently, Google does not have an ad option incorporating more social data ready to be used by advertisers. Instead, the company said it wanted the ability to offer such ads in the future and was notifying users in advance.
谷歌拒绝具体说明它打算如何在广告中使用背书。目前谷歌还没有加入新的广告选项，让广告商可以引入更多社交数据。不过公司说它希望能够在未来提供这样的广告，现在是在提前通知用户。
Addressing potential privacy concerns in a notice to users posted on its site on Friday, Google said, “When it comes to shared endorsements in ads, you can control the use of your Profile name and photo.”
周五，谷歌在其网站上发布了一个通知，就潜在的隐私问题向用户做出说明。谷歌说，“至于在广告中分享背书，你对自己个人资料中的名称和照片是有控制权的。”
Though Google Plus has significantly fewer users than Facebook — 190 million users post on Google Plus and 390 million use it indirectly by sharing on other Google sites, compared with 1.2 billion users on Facebook — Google’s variety of services and broad ad network gives it a potentially wider reach.
Google Plus的用户比Facebook少很多——在Google Plus上发帖的用户有1.9亿，还有3.9亿用户通过在其他谷歌网站上分享信息间接使用了Google Plus，相比之下Facebook拥有12亿用户——不过谷歌的服务种类繁多，广告网络覆盖范围很广，有机会接触到更多人。
Facebook recently settled the class-action lawsuit on its sponsored ads. In late August, it tried to impose a new privacy policy that would have given the company clearer rights to run social ads without a user’s explicit permission. After privacy groups complained, the Federal Trade Commission began an inquiry into the changes, prompting Facebook to suspend the process.
Facebook近日就关于赞助广告的集体诉讼达成了和解。8月底，公司试图推出新的隐私政策，赋予公司更清晰的授权，可以在没有用户明确许可的情况下从事社交广告运营。接到隐私倡议团体的投诉后，联邦贸易委员会(Federal Trade Commission)对这次改变展开调查，导致Facebook停止了相关运作。
The change Facebook made Thursday was the equivalent of forbidding users from having an unlisted number in the phone book. But the company said that since Facebook users could be found in other ways, for example through posts by other members, it was discontinuing the option to be hidden. Facebook said the best way for users to protect their privacy was to adjust the settings for their profile and each individual post they make.
Facebook在周四做出的改变相当于禁止用户在电话号码簿上登记不公开号码。然而公司说，由于Facebook用户可以通过其他方式被找到，比如通过其他用户的帖子，所以它将不再提供隐藏的选项。Facebook说用户保护隐私的最佳方式是修改他们对个人资料以及每一篇帖子的设定。
Google, which is under the supervision of the F.T.C. for a previous social networking privacy violation and faces privacy audits and fines for privacy misrepresentations, is taking pains to show that it has considered the privacy implications of the new ads. For instance, it will notify users of the change with banners on Google’s home page, in search results, in Google Plus notifications and elsewhere.
由于此前的社交网络隐私侵权问题，谷歌已经在接受贸易委员会的监管，并且可能会因为与隐私相关的不实陈述而遭到隐私审查和罚款，公司正在竭力表明，对于新型广告造成的隐私后果，他们是有所考虑的。比如公司会在谷歌主页、搜索结果页面和Google Plus通知等处用横条的形式告知用户做出了什么改变。