Google Glass, the company’s Internet-connected glasses, will soon have seven new apps, including breaking news alerts from CNN, fashion features from Elle, Twitter, Tumblr and Facebook posts and reminder notes from Evernote.
谷歌(Google)公司的联网眼镜谷歌眼镜(Google Glass)不久将会拥有7个新应用，其中包括CNN新闻提醒，《Elle》杂志时尚特刊，Twitter、Tumblr和Facebook发帖，以及印象笔记(Evernote)的提醒服务。
Google announced the apps, which it calls Glassware, Thursday at its I/O developers conference, the largest assembly yet of people wearing Glass in the same place. They join Path and The New York Times as the only apps so far available on Glass. The glasses also offer Google services like search and maps, connect to users’ cellphones for text messaging, take photos and record video.
周四，谷歌在其I/O研发人员大会上宣布了这些命名为Glassware（仅适用于谷歌眼镜的应用，译者注）的应用，这次大会是迄今为止人们在同一地方戴着谷歌眼镜参加的最大一次集会。这些新应用，再加上Path以及《纽约时报》，就是谷歌眼镜目前仅有的应用。这款眼镜还可以提供其他谷歌服务，比如搜索、地图、与用户手机连接发短信、拍照和拍摄视频。 
Just as apps transformed smartphones from cellphones into devices that have become essential to daily life for many people, so Google hopes that apps will make Glass more functional. Still, Google is moving slowly and cautiously in opening Glass to developers. Apps have limited access to Glass users’ data, for instance, and for now, cannot include ads.
就像应用将智能手机从单纯的手机变为很多人的日常生活必需设备一样，谷歌希望这些应用能让谷歌眼镜具有更多功能。但是，在向研发人员开放谷歌眼镜时，谷歌的动作却十分缓慢而谨慎。比如，应用对谷歌眼镜用户数据的获取受到了限制，目前也不能植入广告。
Google wants developers to experiment with building apps tailored to Glass, as opposed to just transporting mobile apps to the new device. Glass is different than phones because it is in a user’s line of sight and has a smaller screen. So notifications, for instance, could easily be disruptive or unwanted.
谷歌希望研发人员尝试开发仅适用于谷歌眼镜的应用，而不只是将已有的移动应用转移到这种新设备上。谷歌眼镜和手机不同，因为它处在用户的视线范围之内，而且屏幕较小。这样一来，提醒之类的功能就很容易打扰用户，或者不受欢迎。
Google has given Glassware developers four pieces of advice: keep it short and sweet for the small screen, make sure alerts are relevant, send timely information people need on the go and make tasks easier and more seamless than they are on other devices.
谷歌已经给Glassware研发人员提供了四条建议：让这个小屏上的应用短小贴心，确保提醒的相关性，给在路上的人及时提供所需信息，让任务处理变得比在其他设备上更简单、更无缝。
CNN’s app, for instance, lets people choose which types of news alerts they receive (politics but no sports, for instance), and the time of day at which they are delivered. Then they can read or hear aloud a short summary and watch a video clip.
比如，CNN的应用程序可以让人们选择新闻提醒的类型（比如，只要政治新闻，不要体育新闻），以及在一天中发送新闻提醒的时间。此外，用户可以读新闻，也可以听念出来的新闻简介，还可以观看视频。
Similarly, Elle’s app allows people to choose the sections of the magazine they want to see on Glass, swipe through photos from a story, hear a section of a story read aloud, add stories to a reading list for later and share stories with friends. At Elle, there is a team dedicated to taking monthly magazine content and turning it into real-time updates that make sense for Glass, like posts from the Elle Dispatch blog. 
同样，《Elle》的应用程序允许人们选择想在谷歌眼镜上看到的杂志板块，浏览报道中的图片，聆听念出来的报道片段，将报道添加到阅读清单上供以后阅读以及同朋友分享。《Elle》有一个团队专门负责选取这一月刊的内容，并将其转换成谷歌眼镜能识别的实时更新，比如Elle博客频道Elle Dispatch的帖子。
So far on Glass, photos are shareable only through Google Plus. With the Facebook app, Glass users will be able to share photos taken with Glass on Facebook. Twitter’s Glass app lets people tailor their stream to only receive posts from certain people and transcribe new posts using voice. Tumblr’s app shows a user’s full feed or just select updates.
到目前为止，在谷歌眼镜上，照片只能通过Google Plus分享。有了Facebook的应用程序，谷歌眼镜的用户就可以通过Facebook分享谷歌眼镜拍的照片。谷歌眼镜的Twitter应用程序允许人们进行设置，只接收特定的人的帖子，并能将语音转写成新帖子。Tumblr的应用程序可以显示用户的所有帖子，也可以只显示选定的更新。
When people are using Evernote on the Web, they will be able to send notes, like a grocery list, to Glass, so it’s accessible when they need it.
在网上使用印象笔记时，人们可以将诸如购物清单之类的笔记发送到谷歌眼镜上，需要时就可以看到。
Another new app was built by three of the developers who received an early edition of Glass. It’s a game called Ice Breaker that some people could say bridges the divide between the physical and digital worlds — and others might say creates some socially awkward situations. Glass users see a notification of someone who is also playing the game nearby, and the people introduce themselves and take a picture of one another, rate their conversation and earn points.
还有一款新应用程序是由三名研发人员开发的，他们此前都收到了早期版本的谷歌眼镜。这款应用是一个名为Ice Breaker的游戏。一些人可能会说，这款游戏架起了现实世界和数字世界的桥梁，另一些人则可能会说这个游戏制造了一些从社交上来看很尴尬的情境。如果附近有人也在玩这个游戏，谷歌眼镜的用户会收到提示。他们可以自我介绍，给彼此拍照，对这次交谈的价值进行评分，然后得到分数。
The Glassware will be available to people who signed up and paid $1,500 for an early edition of Glass. Though other developers are beginning to build apps for the device, there is not yet an app store where anyone can offer such apps.
只要进行登记并出资1500美元购买早期版本的谷歌眼镜，人们便能用上Glassware。其他一些研发人员已经开始为谷歌眼镜设计应用程序，目前却还没有一个可供人们发布类似应用程序的应用商店。