Here’s what you see if you look at my face: a skinny titanium headband stretched across my forehead. It looks like a futuristic pair of sunglasses, minus the lenses. On my right-hand side there’s a computer, a metal frame with a small, clear cube of plastic perched just over my eye. When I tilt my head upward a bit, or run my finger along the side of the frame, the cube lights up. What I see, floating six inches in front of me, is a pinkish, translucent computer screen. It gives me access to a few simple apps: Google search, text messaging, Twitter, a to-do list, some hourly news headlines from CNN (“See a Truck Go Airborne, Fly Over Median,” “Dolphin Deaths Alarm Biologists”). Beside the screen is a teensy camera built into the frame of the glasses, ready to record anything I’m looking at.
你要是看我的脸，这是你所看到的：一条细窄的金属钛质头带架在我的前额上。它看起来像是一副未来世界般的太阳镜，只是没有镜片。右侧有一个电脑，其金属框架配有一个透明塑料小方块，位于我的右眼上面一点。我把头向上抬一点，或用一根手指沿框边滑过时，这个小方块就会亮起来。这时我看到的是，在我面前六英寸的地方，浮着一个略带粉红色、半透明的电脑屏幕。它让我使用几个简单的应用：谷歌(Google)搜索、短信、推特(Twitter)、任务清单、CNN每小时的新闻标题（“目睹一辆卡车升空，飞过公路界栏”、“海豚死亡震惊生物学家”）。屏幕旁边的镜架上内置一个小小的相机，随时可以记录我在看的东西。
Google Glass is the company’s attempt to mainstream what the tech industry calls wearable computing, to take the computer off your desk or out of your pocket and keep it in your field of view. In a world where we’re already peering at screens all day long, pecked at by alerts, the prospect of an eyeball computer can provoke a shudder. But over several weeks of using the device myself, I began to experience some of the intriguing — and occasionally delightful — aspects of this new machine. I got used to glancing up to start texting and e-mailing by addressing its surprisingly accurate voice-transcription capabilities. (I admit I once texted my wife while riding my bicycle.) I set up calendar reminders that dinged in my ear. I used an app that guided me back to my car in a parking lot. I sent pictures of magazine articles to Evernote, so I would have reminders of what I’d read. I had tweets from friends float across my gaze.
谷歌眼镜(Google Glass)是该公司对业界所称的“可穿戴电脑”进行的主流化尝试，也就是把电脑从桌面或你的口袋中转移到你的视野中。在一个我们已经整天盯着屏幕、不停收到各种提醒的世界，“眼球电脑”的概念仍可能让人惊悚。但在使用谷歌眼镜的几个星期里，我开始体验到这种新机器一些耐人寻味的、偶尔令人愉悦的方面。我开始习惯于抬眼以便开始发短信或电子邮件，利用其准确得出人意料的语音到文本转换能力（我承认我有一次边骑自行车边给我妻子发短信）。我设置的日程提醒到时候会在我耳朵里叮当作响。在停车场，我曾依靠一个应用引导我找到自己的车。我对杂志文章的页面拍照后，将其发到Evernote，以提醒自己读了什么。朋友的推文在我的眼前滚动显示。
Despite my quick adoption, however, only rarely did I accomplish something with Glass that I couldn’t already do with, say, my mobile phone. When I first heard about the device, I envisioned using it as a next-level brain supplement, accessing brilliant trivia during conversations, making myself seem omniscient (or insufferable, or both). This happened only occasionally: I startled a friend with information about the author of a rare sci-fi book, for example. But generally I found that Googling was pretty hard; you mostly control Glass with voice commands, and speaking queries aloud in front of others was awkward.
虽然我很快就适应了谷歌眼镜，但除极少数例外，我用谷歌眼镜能做的事，也都能用我的手机完成。当我第一次听到谷歌眼镜时，我把它想象成更高层次的大脑助理，比如在谈话中查询令人刮目相看的琐碎信息，让我显得无所不知（或者让人受不了，或两者兼备）。这种情况只偶尔发生过：比如说，有一次我说出了一本罕见的科幻小说的作者的信息，让我的朋友大吃一惊。但是总的来说，我发现在谷歌眼镜上搜索挺费劲的；你主要用语音指令控制谷歌眼镜，而在别人面前大声发这样的指令相当尴尬。
The one thing I used regularly was its camera. I enjoyed taking hands-free shots while playing with my kids and street scenes for which I would probably not have bothered to pull out my phone. I streamed live point-of-view video with friends and family. But it also became clear that the camera is a social bomb. One friend I ran into on the street could focus only on the lens pointing at her. “Can it see into my soul?” she asked. Later, she wrote me an e-mail: “Nice to see you. Or spy you spying, I guess.”
我常用谷歌眼镜上的相机。跟孩子们玩的时候不用腾手就可以拍照片，以及拍一些我很可能不会费劲掏出手机去拍的街景。我曾通过视频流向朋友和家人转播我看到的画面。但很清楚的一点是，这相机也能成为一个社交炸弹。我在街上碰到的一个朋友目不转睛地盯着朝向她的镜头。“它能看穿我的灵魂吗？”她问。之后她给我写了个电子邮件：“很高兴见到你，或者说撞到你窥视别人，我猜是吧。”
Cameras are everywhere in public, but one fixed to your face sends a more menacing signal: I have the power to record you at a moment’s notice, it seems to declare — and maybe I already am. In the weeks before I got Glass this summer, at least one restaurant banned the device, articles fulminated against it and a parody of its use appeared on “Saturday Night Live.” In public, I sometimes found myself avoiding people’s eyes, as if trying to indicate that I wasn’t recording them. (Of course, if there’s one thing weirder than someone wearing a computer on his face, it’s someone wearing a computer on his face who also refuses to look you in the eye.)
如今相机在公共场所无处不在，但是固定在你脸上的相机仍发出一个更具威胁性的信号：它似乎在宣称，我有能力随时录下你的一举一动，也许我已经在这么做了。今年夏天在我获得谷歌眼镜前的几星期，至少已有一家餐厅禁止它，不少文章强烈地反对它，电视节目“周六夜现场”(Saturday Night Live)嘲笑了它的用处。在公开场合，有时我发现自己会回避别人的眼光，似乎在向他们表明我没有在录他们。（当然了，如果说还有比脸上戴一台电脑更奇怪的，那就是脸上戴着一台电脑、而且拒绝与你视线接触的人。）
As far as Google is concerned, any social quirks, tensions or paranoias Glass produces now are just temporary side effects — the kind of things we always confront before a new device becomes necessary, accepted, even beloved. Yet there’s always a gulf between how creators intend for their tools to be used and the way people actually use them. There can be a divide, too, between the experience of users and those they interact with. From my perspective, I was wearing a computer, a tool that gave me the constant, easy ability to access information quickly. To everyone else, I was just a guy with a camera on his head. With a technology this strange and new, it’s hard to tell just what it is: a bridge to the rest of the world — or just another screen blocking people out?
对谷歌来说，谷歌眼镜目前产生的社交尴尬、紧张或妄想症只是暂时的副作用，是一种新产品成为必要、被接受甚至被人爱不释手之前总会经历的东西。然而，在发明者所设计的工具用途与人们实际使用它的方式之间，总是存在着一道鸿沟。使用者与他们接触的人在体验上也会存在差别。从我的视角看，我是戴着一台电脑，这件工具让我能随时、轻易而快速地获得信息。对其他所有人来说，我只是个头上顶个相机的家伙。鉴于这种技术如此奇怪和新鲜，很难说清楚它到底是什么：是通向外部世界的一座桥梁，还是“屏蔽”别人的又一个屏幕？
In one sense, Glass is nothing new. “We’ve used technology to extend our physicality for thousands of years,” Genevieve Bell, an anthropologist who works for Intel and studies the relationships between people and their digital tools, says. “We had armor, we had boomerangs to extend our reach, we had bows and arrows.” Women in the 18th and 19th centuries wore chatelaines, bags tied to belts that held the tools of their trade: thermometers and scissors for nurses, thimbles and needles for seamstresses. And as Bell points out, our wearable technologies have never been merely practical enhancements. They’re also theatrical, signaling identity, social status and power. A wristwatch isn’t only a means of promoting punctuality; putting one on is also a way to be seen as a punctual person.
从某种意义上说，谷歌眼镜并不是新发明。“几千年来，人类一直在利用技术来延伸自己的肢体，”为英特尔(Intel)工作的人类学家、研究人与数字工具之间关系的吉妮薇芙·贝尔(Genevieve Bell)说。“我们有盔甲，我们有回飞镖来延伸自己的‘触角’，我们有弓与箭。”18和19世纪的女子腰带上系着袋子，装她们的职业工具：护士们携带温度表和剪子，裁缝携带顶针和针。而且正如贝尔所指出的，人类的可穿戴技术从来不只是为了实用目的。它们也是装点，能表示身份、社会地位和权力。手表不只是促进准时的一种手段；戴表有助于被视为一个守时的人。
As soon as the age of digital computers dawned, its innovators dreamed of wearing them. In 1945, Vannevar Bush, the American inventor and science administrator, envisioned the voracious information seeker of the future wearing a camera “a little larger than a walnut” on his head to capture documents to be stored in his “memex,” a personal collection of documents linked together in a Web-like fashion. In the early ’60s, a mathematician named Edward Thorp teamed up with the information scientist Claude Shannon and built the first wearable digital computer — an easily concealed cigarette-pack-size device they used to beat the roulette wheels at Las Vegas. They worried about being caught — “That was the era of kneebreakers, and worse,” Thorp told me — but it worked.
数字电脑时代刚到来时，它的发明者们就梦想着能穿戴它们。1945年，美国发明家和科学事务官员万尼瓦尔·布什(Vannevar Bush)就想象着未来饥渴的信息寻求者将在头上戴一台“比核桃大不了多少”的相机，捕捉住文件，存放在他的“记忆索引”(memex)中，一种像Web那样连接文件的个人收藏。60年代初，一位名叫爱德华·瑟普(Edward Thorp)的数学家与信息科学家克劳德·沙农(Claude Shannon)合作，造出了第一种可穿戴数字电脑。那是一个烟盒大小、很容易藏匿的装置，用来帮助他们在拉斯维加斯玩赌盘时胜算一筹。他们很担心被抓住。“那是个黑帮敲烂你膝盖或者更糟的年代，”瑟普告诉我说。但他们的电脑挺灵光。
Beginning in the ’80s and ’90s, computer components became small and light enough to make it feasible to attach them to your body. A group of students at M.I.T. — often called “the Borg,” after the part-machine, part-organic alien collective of “Star Trek” — began experimenting with wearable designs. One student, Thad Starner, created such a computer in 1993 to solve the problem of taking notes in class. Starner noticed that whenever he wrote down what his professors said, he stopped paying attention to what they were saying; his notes were often illegible too.
从上世纪80和90年代起，电脑部件变得又小又轻，使穿戴成为可行。麻省理工学院的一组学生开始试验可穿戴电脑设计。这些学生常常被人称为“博格人”，取自电影《星际旅行》中半机器、半有机的外星人。一个名叫沙德·斯特尔纳(Thad Starner)的学生1993年设计出这样一个电脑，来解决上课记笔记的问题。斯特尔纳注意到，他写下教授刚说的话时，就没法注意教授正在说的话；而他的笔记常常潦草得不知所云。
“All these lessons I was learning were going in one ear and out the other,” he says. So he put computer parts in a backpack and connected them to an L.E.D. display that he clipped to his head and positioned an inch or two in front of his right eye. To input information, he used a one-handed keyboard called a Twiddler. This way, he figured, he could write notes in class while keeping his head up and following the professor. For the next 20 years, many of them as a professor of computer science at the Georgia Institute of Technology, Starner wore his computer almost daily.
“我在听的那些课都是一只耳朵进一只耳朵出，”他说。于是他就把电脑部件放在一个背包里，将它们与一个LED显示器连接在一起，显示器系在他的头上，位于他的右眼前面一、两英寸的地方。他用一种名叫Twiddler的单手键盘输入信息。他琢磨着，这样一来，上课的时候他就可以在记笔记的同时，抬头看着教授。在接下来的20年间，在乔治亚理工学院多年担任计算机学教授的斯特尔纳，几乎每天都头戴自己的电脑。
He used the device to capture and instantly retrieve knowledge. During pauses in conversation, while riding in cars, while at a lecture, he’d record the most interesting parts of what people were saying. When I visited him in January, his archive was 2.2 million words. Talking to Starner can be a remarkable experience, because he’ll startle you by bringing up precise details from conversations held months, or even years, earlier.
他用这个装置捕获并即时检索知识。在谈话的停顿间隙，在车里，在讲课的时候，他会记录人们所说的最有意思的部分。我1月份去走访他时，他的档案里有220万词。跟斯特尔纳谈话可能是一种很不一般的经历，因为他会精确无误地提到几个月前、甚至数年前谈话的内容，吓你一跳。
Starner has evolved strict social protocols about when and how to use his wearable computer, to avoid ignoring people. For example, he never checks e-mail while talking to someone. “Your I.Q. goes down like 40 points,” Starner says.
对于什么时候、如何使用自己的可穿戴电脑，斯特尔纳逐渐给自己制订了严格的社交规矩，以避免忽视别人。比如说，他在跟人说话的时候从不检查电子邮件。“（否则）你的智商会下滑40点，”斯特尔纳说。
“You’ve got to make the systems so that they help people pay attention to the world in front of them,” he argues. The distinction, he says, is between trying to juggle rival cognitive tasks — task switching — and using several information streams that are all focused on the same matter and reinforce one another. While Starner gave a presentation to the National Academy of Sciences in 2010, for instance, a group of his students listening in remotely at Georgia Tech texted factoids to him. “My students, seeing me stumbling on something, would throw up a URL,” he says. “It made me seem smarter than I am.” Since the facts were germane to his presentation, they didn’t distract him; he easily incorporated them into his talk.
“你必须使这些系统帮助人们注意自己面前的世界，”他说。按照他的说法，区别在于，一个是试图凑合对付几个相互竞争的认知任务，即任务切换，另一个是利用聚焦于同一件事、并且相互强化的几条信息流。比如说，当斯特尔纳2010年在美国国家科学院(National Academy of Sciences)作报告时，他的学生在乔治亚理工学院一边远程听报告，一边用短信向他发送各种资料和数据。“我的学生看到我有什么不通晓的地方，会马上给我一个网址，”他说。“这使我看上去比我实际上更聪明。”由于这些资料和数据与他的报告相关，它们不会分散他的注意力；他轻易将它们结合进了他的报告。
Today’s mobile phones, of course, can do much of what Starner’s home-built machine could do. But the difference, he claims, is how much faster his wearable was. Though we joke about constantly Googling information on our phones, in reality, he suggests, people don’t pull them out for that purpose all that often. In contrast, he can find something in his archived notes in seconds — so he checks it all the time. “The big thing about augmented memory is access time,” he says.
当然，斯特尔纳的自制机器能做的很多事情，今天的手机也能做到。但是他说，不同之处在于他的可穿戴电脑要快得多。尽管我们爱开玩笑说，我们在手机上不停地利用谷歌搜索信息，但他提出，实际情况是人们为了搜索信息而掏出手机的频度并不高。相反，他几秒钟就能从自己存档的记录中找到东西，所以他总是在检索。“增强记忆最重要的是存取时间，”他说。
Starner’s handmade device didn’t have a camera. He says that “people had this allergic reaction to the idea that people would be recorded” in the pre-cameraphone era. Indeed, few of the early wearable pioneers regularly wore cameras, for precisely that reason.
斯特尔纳的自制电脑不带相机。他说，在手机拍照之前的年代，“人们对自己会被录像有过敏反应。”的确，正因为这个原因，可穿戴电脑的先驱们当中几乎没人常戴相机。
One prominent exception was Steve Mann, probably the first regular user of a wearable computer. His was equipped with a camera, one that would eventually be able to take more than 30 pictures per second. When he was a student at M.I.T. in the early ’90s, “people were really freaking out on it,” he says. “I had one M.I.T. professor that tried to shut me down, and said, ‘Well, we certainly can’t have you doing that.’ ” He was told he couldn’t use it in libraries, and when police officers and security guards realized they were being recorded, they’d tell him to turn it off. (He says two transit police officers once tackled him because of it.) He regarded the picture-taking as a type of note-taking: “Remembering is recording,” he says. “It’s like a black-box device for yourself.” It could be highly practical too, as was the case when he was struck by a car and his camera caught the license-plate number.
斯蒂夫·曼恩(Steve Mann)是一个知名的例外，他可能是第一个经常佩戴可穿戴电脑的用户。他的可穿戴电脑配有相机，这个相机最终具有每秒记录30多帧画面的能力。90年代初他还是麻省理工学院学生的时候，“人们简直被它吓坏了，”他说。“有一个麻省理工学院教授试图阻止我，说，‘我们肯定不能让你这么做。’”人们告诉他，不能在图书馆使用，当警察和保安意识到自己正被照下来时，他们会让他关掉。（他说，为此两个交通警察曾经对他动手。）他把拍照视为一种记笔记的方式：“记忆就是记录，”他说。“这就好像你自己的一个黑匣子。”它也可能十分实用，比如说，有一次他被一辆车撞到，他的相机拍下了那辆车的车牌号。
Mann says he thinks that society will eventually adapt to omnipresent recording by everyday people. “Sousveillance,” he calls it, punning on the French word for “under,” sous — surveillance by the many rather than the few.
曼恩说，社会最终将适应人人都在进行的无所不在的记录。他称其为“众视”(sousveillance)，他用法语“sous”（下面）取代“监视”(surveillance)一词中的“sur”（上面），描述一种众人（而不是少数人）的监视。
Google has known about wearable computers for a long time. In 1998, the company’s founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, met Starner when they were still grad students. (Years later, the company would end up hiring Starner as an adviser to work on Glass. Another pioneer, Greg Priest-Dorman, who had worn his own handmade computer for two decades, was hired full time.) Planners at Google insisted that wearables would be the next big shift in networked computing and would have large implications for the company, much the way mobile phones changed how and where Google serves ads, its chief source of income. Executives wanted to understand how Google could adapt. But since nobody was making a wearable computer for the mass market, Google realized it would have to make one itself.
谷歌早就知道可穿戴电脑。1998年，谷歌创始人拉里·佩奇(Larry Page)和谢尔盖·布林 (Sergey Brin)还是研究生的时候曾与斯特尔纳见面。（多年后，谷歌公司雇用斯特尔纳担任谷歌眼镜的开发顾问。戴了20年自制电脑的另一名先驱格里格·普里斯特-多尔曼(Greg Priest-Dorman)则成为谷歌全职雇员。）谷歌的规划者们坚持说，可穿戴电脑将成为联网计算中的下一个大转变，会给公司带来巨大影响，就像手机改变了谷歌怎样以及在哪里提供广告服务（广告是谷歌的主要收入来源）。高管们希望知道谷歌如何与时俱进。但是，由于还没有企业面向大众市场制造可穿戴电脑，谷歌意识到它必须自行研发。
Steve Lee, a company veteran who had worked on Latitude, a Google service that enables users to broadcast their GPS location to friends, was involved in the project’s initial development. He knew from the start that Glass needed to avoid being clunky; it couldn’t have the snaking cables or one-handed keyboards of the hand-built wearable computers.
史蒂夫·李(Steve Lee)是公司的一位资深雇员，曾经参与谷歌Latitude服务的开发，这项服务让用户向朋友广播自己的全球定位系统(GPS)位置。李参与了眼镜项目的初期开发。他从一开始就意识到，谷歌眼镜不能笨重；不能有缠绕的线缆，也不能有自制可穿戴电脑所用的那种单手键盘。
“Style is subjective,” he told me when I met him this summer at Google’s headquarters in Mountain View, Calif. “But I think up until that point, most attempts at wearables — there wasn’t even a debate. No one would call them stylish.”
“风格是主观的，”今年夏天我和他在加利福尼亚州山景城谷歌总部见面时他告诉我说。“但我认为，直到那个时候，大家都公认的一点是，没一款可穿戴电脑能被称为时髦入眼的。”
The earliest prototypes of Glass were made by taking the components from phones running Android — Google’s mobile operating system — and gluing them to a pair of safety goggles, with a huge L.C.D. in front of one eye. Heft was a hurdle: the prototypes were more than five and a half ounces, creating an untenable amount of “nose-borne weight,” to use an industry term. “If it doesn’t meet a minimum bar for comfort and style, it just doesn’t matter what it will do,” Lee said. Nobody would wear it all day long.
谷歌眼镜最早的原型，是把运行谷歌手机操作系统Android的手机的相关部件粘到一副护目镜上制成的，一只眼前面有个大尺寸液晶显示器。笨重是一道障碍：原型重达五盎司半，用行业术语说，这样的“鼻撑重量”行不通。“如果它无法达到一个舒适与时尚的基本门槛，那它功能再多也是白搭，” 李说。没人会整天戴着它。
To shrink the device and make it more attractive, Lee hired Isabelle Olsson, a Swedish industrial designer known for her elegant, stripped-down aesthetic. She wasn’t told what she was being hired for. On her first day at work, Olsson was shown the safety-goggle prototype. When she pulled it out of a box and put it on to show me, she looked like a mad scientist.
为了缩小这个装置，令其更为好看，李聘用了以优雅、简洁著称的瑞典工业设计师伊莎贝尔·奥尔松(Isabelle Olsson)。谷歌没有透露请她来的具体原因。第一天上班，有人给奥尔松看了这个护目镜原型。当她从一个盒子里拿出来戴上给我看的时候，她看上去像个疯狂的科学家。
“My heart skipped a beat,” she said with a laugh. “As a very nontacky person, this idea overwhelmed me a little bit. I’m going to wear a computer on my face? I really felt like we need to simplify this to the extreme. Whatever we can remove, we will remove.” Olsson scattered books of minimalist design around the office to inspire the design team. One of its first major decisions was to make one arm of the glasses function like a trackpad, so that one- and two-finger swipes let users move from screen to screen. So Glass could play audio privately, a “bone-conducting transducer” was put on the inside of the arm; sound plays directly against the skull, making it audible generally only to the user. Lacking a keyboard, the device would be controlled mostly by dictation; the team settled on “O.K., Glass” as the command that would initiate an action.
“我的心停跳了一下，”她笑着跟我说。“作为一个非常讲究简约的人，这个创意让我一时不知所措。我要在脸上戴个电脑？我真的觉得我们需要把这东西简化到极致。凡是能除去的，我们都要除去。”奥尔松在办公室里摆放一些极简主义的设计书籍，希望她的设计团队从中获得灵感。他们最早的一个重大决定是把一边眼镜架变成一个触控板，这样用户在上面划过一根和两根手指即可翻看屏幕。为了让谷歌眼镜私密地播放声音，在镜脚内侧设置一个“骨传导传感器”，让声音紧贴着头颅播放，一般情况下只有使用者能够听到。因为没有键盘，谷歌眼镜主要由语音指令控制；设计小组最后决定，用“好吧眼镜”(“O.K., Glass”)作为启动一个行动的口令。
The team also decided to raise the screen slightly above the right eye, so a user would need to choose to look up at it. This way, the designers felt, it was less likely to get in the way of social interaction. Glass would send another signal when in use: when the screen is on, the glow is visible to people nearby. And they can see a user glancing up.
设计团队还决定把屏幕抬高至略高于右眼的位置，这样用户就需要往上看才能看到。设计师们感到，这样比较不会影响社交互动。谷歌眼镜在使用时还会发出另一个信号：屏幕亮着的时候，周围的人会看到它的光亮。当然，他们还会看到使用者的眼睛向上扫视。
Glancing, in fact, was the design team’s stated goal for how you interact with the device. Every Glass designer I spoke to insisted that it wasn’t something you were supposed to stare at, zoning out on videos or playing games or reading while ignoring those around you. The expressed hope was that by giving people a quick way to check e-mail and text messages — and to find quick answers while on the go — Glass would encourage them to spend less time, not more, staring at screens. There were technical imperatives at work, too: the device has a short battery life (the screen usually turns off after only a few seconds of inactivity). “We should not be competing with the world,” says Antonio Costa, a Google designer who works on Glass. “We would lose.”
事实上，扫视正是设计团队对于你与眼镜应该如何互动的公开意图。与我交谈的每一个谷歌眼镜设计者都坚持说，这不是个让你盯着看的东西，不是让你忽略周围的人而聚精会神地看录像、玩游戏或阅读的。他们表明的希望在于，通过给人们提供一个能够很快查电子邮件和发短信，在外活动时还能快速找到答案的方式，谷歌眼镜会鼓励他们花更少、而不是更多的时间盯着电脑屏幕。此外还有技术上的要求：谷歌眼镜的电池续航时间不长（屏幕通常在闲置几秒钟后就会关闭）。“我们不应该与整个世界竞争，”谷歌眼镜设计师之一安东尼奥·科斯塔(Antonio Costa)说，“那样我们会输掉的。”
Part of the company’s vision was to integrate Google Now, a virtual assistant that interacts with Gmail, Google Calendar and current location to push information and reminders at you — letting you know an hour before a lunch meeting how long the drive to the restaurant will be based on current traffic, for example. “Glass should be the librarian that knows when to interrupt,” Costa says. It is a corporate strategy by now familiar: create products that make life easier while enmeshing you ever more thoroughly in Google’s product ecosystem. The more personal information you give Google, the more useful Now and Glass become — and the more you rely on them.
谷歌的一部分愿景在于把“谷歌现在”（Google Now，与Gmail配合的虚拟助手）、谷歌日历(Google Calendar)以及目前位置整合起来，将信息与提醒推给你，比如说，让你在某个午餐会议的一小时前知道，根据目前路况开车到餐厅需要多少时间。“谷歌眼镜应该像个图书馆员那样知道何时介入，”科斯塔说。这是个已经为人熟悉的谷歌企业战略：创造出让生活更方便的产品，同时让你更彻底地嵌入谷歌产品的生态系统。你提供给谷歌的个人信息越多，“谷歌现在”与谷歌眼镜的用处就越大，你对它们的依赖也就越强。
Glass has always included a camera; it was “in the spec from the get-go just because it’s so powerful,” Lee told me. He and his team believed that users would appreciate being able to take pictures impulsively without having to pull a phone out of a pocket. They knew that a camera would cause privacy concerns, but Lee argued that design elements would prevent Glass from being used for easy covert recording. First, the screen glows while it’s in use; second, to use the camera, you either have to speak aloud — “O.K., Glass, take a picture” — or reach up to touch a button.
谷歌眼镜一直是带相机的；“一开始时的规格设计中就有，因为相机威力巨大，”李告诉我说。他和他的团队相信，想拍照就拍，而不必从口袋里掏出手机，使用者会喜欢这种方便。他们知道相机会引起隐私担忧，但是李辩称，设计元素将会阻止谷歌眼镜轻易被用来进行秘密录像。首先，屏幕在使用时会发光；其次，要使用相机，你必须大声说“好吧眼镜，照一张像”，或者抬起手来触摸一个按钮。
“There’s a clear social gesture,” Lee said. Glass’s point-of-view camera is also hard to use secretly, he added, because you need to be looking directly at people to record them.
“这里有一个清楚的社交姿态，”李说。他补充说，谷歌眼镜的“视角相机”很难悄悄使用，因为你需要直视对方才能录像。
Google started selling Glass this spring. Two thousand went to software developers; 8,000 went to people who submitted to Google short descriptions of what they’d do with Glass; those selected paid $1,500 for it. (I received mine this way and paid full price.) Once users began wandering into public life a few months ago, gazing into their glowing eye-screens, it became possible to begin answering the question: how would people use wearable computers in their everyday lives?
谷歌今年春天开始出售眼镜。2000副被分发给软件开发者；8000副卖给那些向谷歌提交短文描述自己将如何使用眼镜的人；被选中的人要支付1500美元。（我就是通过这种方式买到我的谷歌眼镜的，并且付了全价。）当用户们在几个月前开始戴着谷歌眼镜、盯着发亮的眼屏幕进入公共场所时，我们就有可能开始回答这个问题：人们在日常生活中会怎样使用可穿戴电脑？
The camera, it turns out, was the most immediate draw for the roughly two dozen users I spoke to. It’s the simplest thing to do with the device, and everyone experimented avidly with the new angles and picture-taking moments it made possible. Video calls — the real-time sharing of one’s point of view with others — were also popular. In Maine, a surgeon named Rafael Grossmann used Glass at work: he wore his device while inserting a feeding tube into a patient in the operating room and streamed the video live. Normally, he says, only a handful of students can cluster around a teacher, making it hard for them to see from the surgeon’s perspective. “To have someone else see what I see — it’s just amazing in surgical teaching, in medical teaching, in mentoring someone through a problem,” he says. Later, Grossmann reversed the arrangement, having an I.C.U. nurse wear Glass during a procedure while Grossmann and another surgeon offered advice via video call.
对我访谈过的20多人来说，相机是谷歌眼镜最明显的吸引力所在。它是谷歌眼镜最简单的操作，每个人都兴致勃勃地尝试了它带来的新的角度以及拍照时刻。视频通话——实时与他人分享你的视角——也十分受欢迎。在缅因州，外科医生拉菲尔·格罗斯曼(Rafael Grossmann)在手术时使用谷歌眼镜：在手术室，他戴着谷歌眼镜，通过视频流实时转播将一根喂食管插入病人的操作。他说，平时只有几个学生能够围在老师旁边，他们很难从外科医生的视角观摩手术操作。“让别人看到我注视的东西，在外科教学中，在医学教学中指导学生解决问题，真是太棒了，”他说。后来，格罗斯曼改换安排，在一个小手术中，让一个重症监护室的护士戴上谷歌眼镜，而格罗斯曼和另一个外科大夫通过视频通话提供建议。
Because there isn’t an app store for Glass, its capabilities were initially limited by the few applications preinstalled by Google — sending and receiving texts, taking and sending videos and pictures, getting directions and doing Google searches. (The company says an app store is coming next year, when Glass is available to the general public.) Google created a set of guidelines for designing applications, and by midsummer, private developers had produced a few offerings. A cooking application, for example, displays pictures to go with a recipe as you make it. “It’s like a little chef alongside you, telling you what to do,” says Gary Gonzalez, a petty officer in the Coast Guard who was chosen among the 8,000.
由于还没有针对谷歌眼镜的应用商店，它的能力最初局限于谷歌预装的几个应用，即收发短信，录像拍照，查找路线，进行谷歌搜索。（谷歌说，谷歌眼镜明年投放大众市场时会有一个应用商店。）谷歌为设计应用软件制订了一套指引，截至今年仲夏，私人软件开发者已拿出几种应用。比如说，一个烹调应用软件在你下厨时提供菜谱并展示图片。“这就好比一个小厨师站在你身边，指点你怎么做，”海岸警卫队士官加里·冈萨雷斯(Gary Gonzalez)说。他是被选中的8000人之一。
Cecilia Abadie, a software developer in California, craved a way to make a to-do list, so she created an app called Glass Genie. “Because I’m a working mom, I have my kids asking me things all the time,” she says. Other users figured out ways to get Glass to display notes. Before I went into meetings, I began e-mailing notes to myself, then leaving them on-screen as virtual Post-its.
加利福尼亚软件开发者塞西莉亚·阿巴迪(Cecilia Abadie)总想找到写任务清单的好办法，于是她创造了一个名叫“眼镜吉尼”的应用。“我是个有职业的母亲，我的孩子们总是问我这样或那样的事，”她说。其他用户则找到了让眼镜展示纸条笔记的办法。在我进会前，我会把这些笔记电邮给我自己，然后将它们显示在屏幕上，当作虚拟纸条提示。
Many users discovered, as I did, that Googling on Glass was less useful than they expected. It sounds so alluring in theory: all human knowledge, right in front of your eyeball! I had success with simple queries, like checking the weather or finding the title of the next Junie B. Jones book. But Google’s intention to make its computer “glanceable” and “out of the way” also makes sustained reading difficult. When I spent much time looking at Google results, my eyes got tired from looking upward. (The same was true for videos: more than a minute or two was wearying.) I soon abandoned Googling altogether. One user, Zoë van der Meulen, claims that the relative hassle of a Web search on Glass is a feature, not a bug. She describes Googling on a road trip with her husband and says that if she had done it on her phone she would have most likely checked Facebook or Twitter at the expense of interacting with her husband. “I think it’s way less distracting than the cellphone,” she says. I discovered a version of this effect with my Twitter usage. While using my laptop, I used Glass to show comments directed at me personally. But I otherwise ignored Twitter for hours, and paradoxically this meant I was less likely to lose myself in endless Twitter-surfing. It certainly looked ludicrous: a guy sitting at a computer, with another computer on his face. But it did the job.
包括我自己在内的许多用户发现，在眼镜上进行谷歌搜索不像之前期待的那样有用。它在理论上听起来很迷人：人类的全部知识都能即刻展现在你的眼球前！我可以成功地进行一些简单的搜索，如查看天气或者找到Junie B. Jones下一本书的书名是什么。但是谷歌在令它的电脑“可扫视”和“不碍事”的同时，也加大了持久阅读的难度。看搜索结果时间一长，我的眼睛就会因为往上看而变得疲劳。（看视频也是如此：超过一两分钟就累了。）我很快就放弃用谷歌眼镜进行任何搜索。一个名叫佐伊·范·德·穆伦(Zoë van der Meulen)的用户声称，在眼镜上搜索的相对不便是一个功能特色，而不是缺点。她描述了与她的丈夫在一次驱车旅途中进行搜索的情景，称如果她在手机上查的话，她很可能会去查看脸书或推特，而不是跟丈夫交谈。“我认为它远不像手机那样让人分心，”她说。我在推特的使用上也发现了类似的效果。我在使用笔记本电脑的同时，使用眼镜来显示推特上发给我个人的评论，但几个小时都不去管推特上其它的内容，这意味着我不太会在无穷尽的推特浏览中失去自己。不过我看上去肯定很滑稽：一个坐在电脑前的家伙，脸上还架着另一台电脑。但这样确实管用。
My own concern about distractions ran in the other direction: the wearable didn’t interrupt me enough. Glass was so busy trying to stay out of the way that it wasn’t as useful as it could have been. I originally hoped to use Glass in the manner of Starner and the other wearable pioneers — as a note-taking machine, a commonplace book grafted on to my consciousness. But the software for that doesn’t exist yet. At best, I could dictate a note that Glass would send to my Evernote account, but I couldn’t search my files or e-mails. To access their pre-existing collections of personal notes and mail through Glass, Starner and Priest-Dorman had to hack it, installing a version of the Linux operating system on the device. Then they used their one-handed keyboards wirelessly, allowing them to type instead of relying on voice recognition.
其实我本人对分心的担忧倒是相反：这款可穿戴电脑打断我的频度不够高。谷歌眼镜太热衷于不碍主人的事，结果没有发挥全部潜力。我本来希望像斯特尔纳和其他可穿戴电脑的先驱那样，拿眼镜当作一个记笔记的机器，一本嫁接到我的意识上的摘录簿。但是那样的软件还不存在。我充其量能做的，就是口述一段笔记，让眼镜发到我的Evernote账户，但是我无法搜索自己的文档或电子邮件。要通过眼镜检索原有的个人笔记和邮件，斯特尔纳和普里斯特-多尔曼不得不“黑”进系统，安装一个Linux操作系统。然后他们无线使用自己的单手键盘，这样才总算能够打字，而无需依赖语音识别。
Other Glass users had reactions similar to mine. Josh Highland, a software developer, says that he was hoping — unrealistically, he knew — for “Terminator vision,” or vast amounts of text and data scrolling into view the way they do in the “Terminator” movies when we see things through Arnold Schwarzenegger’s cyborg eyes. “I expected it to be always on,” Highland says. He says that in trying to prevent too many interruptions, Google overshot the mark. As scholars of multitasking have found, not all distractions are bad. Certainly switching between two unrelated activities can wreck your focus: try playing Angry Birds while listening to a lecture and you’ll do neither well. But if the flurry of alerts and apps you’re juggling are all focused on one piece of work, that might be useful; the distractions are the work, as it were. Like most adroit users of technology, Highland generally tries to avoid diversions. After trying The New York Times and CNN apps on Glass, for example, he quickly turned them off. He didn’t need a news ticker in his eye.
其他一些眼镜用户跟我有类似的反应。软件开发者乔什·海兰德(Josh Highland)说，他本来希望的是“终结者版”，也就是让我们用阿诺·施瓦辛格扮演的那种半机械人的眼睛看东西，巨量的文本和数据在眼前滚动显示。当然他也知道这是个不现实的期望。“我期望它总是开着，”海兰德说。他说，谷歌在避免过于频繁的打断方面做过头了。正如研究“一心多用”的学者们所发现的那样，并不是所有的分心都是不好的。在两个不相关的任务之间换来换去，无疑会让你无法专心：试图在听讲座的同时玩“愤怒的小鸟”游戏，你肯定哪样也做不好。但如果你不断切换的一连串提醒与应用都聚焦于一项任务，那可能是有用的；在这种情况下，分心的事就是工作。如同大多数熟练使用高科技设备的人，海兰德通常试图避免分心。比如说，他在眼镜上试用了《纽约时报》和CNN的应用后，很快便将它们关掉。他不需要新闻在眼前滚动显示。
Ultimately it’s difficult to assess how a tool like Glass might change our information habits and everyday behavior, simply because there’s so little software for it now. “Glass is more of a question than an answer,” in the words of Astro Teller, who heads Google X, the company’s “moon shot” skunk works, which supervised Glass’s development; he says he expects to be surprised by what emerges in the way of software. Phil Libin, the C.E.O. of Evernote, told me that my frustrations with Glass were off-base. I was trying to use it to replace a phone or a laptop, but the way head-mounted wearables will be used — assuming the public actually decides to use them — will most likely be very different. “This is not a reshaping of the cellphone,” he added. “This is an entirely new thing.” He predicts that we’ll still use traditional computers and phones for searching the Web, writing and reading documents, doing e-mail. A wearable computer will be more of an awareness device, noting what you’re doing and delivering alerts precisely when you need them, in sync with your other devices: when you’re near a grocery store, you will be told you’re low on vegetables, and an actual shopping list will be sent to your phone, where longer text is more easily read. Depending on your desire for more alerts, this could be regarded as either annoying or lifesaving. But as Libin puts it, “The killer app for this is hyperawareness.”
最终而言，很难评估谷歌眼镜会如何改变我们的信息习惯以及日常行为，原因不是别的，就是因为现在眼镜可用的软件太少了。“谷歌眼镜更多地是一个问题，而不是一个答案，”谷歌秘密高端研发部门、监督谷歌眼镜开发的Google X的负责人阿斯特罗·泰勒(Astro Teller)说。他说，随着面向眼镜的软件出现，他期望会感到意外。Evernote首席执行官菲尔·里宾(Phil Libin)告诉我，我对谷歌眼镜产生的挫折感是不成立的。我试图用它来替代手机或笔记本电脑，但是头戴式电脑的用处很可能会非常不同——如果公众最终决定使用它们的话。“这不是在重塑手机，”他说。“这是个全新的东西。”他预言，我们仍将使用传统的电脑和手机搜索网络、写文件和读文件、收发电子邮件等。可穿戴电脑在更大程度上将是一种感知装置，注意你在做什么，在你需要的当口向你发出提醒，与你的其它装置配合：在你靠近食品超市的时候，它会提醒你家里的蔬菜不多了，实际的购物清单会发到你的手机上，便于你阅读。取决于你想不想得到更多提醒，这可能被视为烦人，也可能被视为生活中的好帮手。但是正如里宾所说的，“这种设备的杀手级应用就是让你具有超级意识。”
One software developer and Glass user I talked to, Mike DiGiovanni, described people’s fantasies about what the wearable could do as science fiction. “I’ve had people who thought it could see through clothes,” he says. “I’ve had other people who thought it could see your Facebook profile, your Google profile, by scanning your face.”
麦克·迪乔凡尼(Mike DiGiovanni)是我交谈过的一个软件开发者和谷歌眼镜使用者。他形容人们对可穿戴电脑抱有科幻小说般的期待。“有人认为它能够透视衣服，”他说。“还有人认为，只要用它扫描你的脸，就能用它看到你的脸书账户和谷歌账户。”
Actually, face-scanning may not be that far off. In May, a 24-year-old software engineer named Stephen Balaban received his Glass. Balaban runs Lambda Labs, a wearable-computing company. He created a program for Glass that could take a picture of a face, feed it to Lambda Labs’ server, identify it with face-recognition software, then send an alert to someone. Balaban’s demo wasn’t terribly powerful; it could recognize only one of 12 faces he had prescanned. But it’s precisely the type of application we’re likely to see developed as wearables become common: using the pattern-recognition power of machines to extend our observational powers. “If you’re going to put a machine in the loop that’s coprocessing what you’re seeing, what does the machine do that you can’t do?” he says. “This is providing a sixth or seventh sense to people.”
实际上，人脸扫描可能离我们并不远。今年5月，一个名叫斯蒂芬·巴拉班(Stephen Balaban)的24岁的软件工程师获得了他的谷歌眼镜。巴拉班执掌着兰达实验室(Lambda Labs)，这是一家从事可穿戴计算的公司。他为谷歌眼镜创造了一个软件，该软件可以把一张脸部照片输入兰达实验室的服务器中，用人脸识别软件进行鉴定，然后给某人送去一个提醒。巴拉班的演示不很成功；在他预先扫描的12个面孔中，系统只认出一个。但是随着可穿戴电脑更为常见，这类应用正是我们可能看到的：利用机器的模式识别威力来延伸我们的观察力。“如果你要把一台机器融合进来，共同处理你眼前看到的东西，那么什么东西是机器能做、而你做不到的呢？”他说。“就是向人们提供第六或第七感。”
You can’t use Balaban’s app; Google has banned all facial-recognition programs. According to Steve Lee, the Glass design team “looked into facial-recognition technology early on” but chose not to pursue it. “Clearly, this is something the broader public is concerned about,” Lee says, “so we took the additional step of banning facial-recognition Glassware for Glass.” Realistically, Google can’t stop anyone committed to using such applications; install Linux, for example, and you can run any compatible software you want. Political thinkers have long warned that face-recognition software — deployed worldwide by police forces and spy agencies — will eventually go mainstream, with corporations and individuals scanning people in public, either to sell them things, track them or simply indulge their voyeuristic curiosity.
你不能使用巴拉班的应用；因为谷歌禁止所有人脸识别软件。斯蒂夫·李说，谷歌眼镜的设计团队“早期就考虑了人脸辨认技术”，但是决定不去开发它。“显然，这是广大公众所担忧的事情，”李说，“因此我们采取额外措施禁止在眼镜上运行人脸识别软件。”现实地说，谷歌并不能阻止决心使用此类应用的人；比如说，装上Linux后，你就可以运行自己想要的任何兼容软件。政治思想家一直警告称，世界各国警察和间谍机构所用的人脸识别软件，最终将成为主流，企业与个人将在公共场所扫描人们，或者向他们推销东西，跟踪他们，或仅仅是满足自己的偷窥好奇心。
Such technology is likely to be developed more quickly than privacy laws can evolve. In May 2013, members of the Congressional Bipartisan Privacy Caucus sent a letter to Google asking about face recognition; Susan Molinari, Google’s vice president of public policy and government relations, wrote back saying it wouldn’t be allowed without “strong privacy protections.” She also argued that it had designed “social signals” to make camera use visible. Representative Joe Barton, a Republican from Texas and co-chairman of the caucus, wasn’t convinced.
这样的技术很可能在保护隐私的法律还来不及更新之前就被开发出来。2013年5月，美国国会两党保护隐私小组致函谷歌询问人脸识别；谷歌负责公共政策与政府关系的副总裁苏珊·莫里纳利(Susan Molinari)回信说，在“没有很强的隐私保护”前，谷歌不会允许人脸识别。她还辩称，谷歌设计了“社交信号”，让周围的人看得见相机处于工作状态。对此，小组联名主席、得克萨斯州共和党众议员乔·巴尔顿(Joe Barton)并不信服。
“They didn’t put it this way,” he tells me, “but their basic response was ‘buyer beware.’ Or ‘bystander beware.’ ” Privacy, he says, has become a major concern for the public, as news of the N.S.A.’s secret systems have spread. But the lobbying force of large technology and marketing firms makes it hard to pass laws giving consumers the ability to control their privacy. “There’s a lot of money to be made in collecting and collating personal information,” Barton says.
“他们没有明说，”他告诉我，“但他们的基本回应是‘买家当心’或者‘旁观者当心。’”他说，随着关于美国国家安全局(NSA)秘密监听系统的新闻传播开来，隐私成为公众的一大担忧。但是技术和营销大企业的游说力量使国会难以通过相关法律，让消费者能够掌控自己的隐私。“搜集和整理个人信息是个很赚钱的营生，”巴尔顿说。
Some think Glass’s camera by itself is already an incursion. Ann Cavoukian, the information and privacy commissioner for Ontario, says she likes the idea of wearable computers in principle but isn’t impressed by Google’s “social signals.” Sure, the screen glows, but nobody knows what that means — and in any case, the screen glows whether you’re taking a photo or checking e-mail. In contrast, she points out that in a trial program in Amherstburg in her province, police officers who wore video cameras also had badges clarifying that recording was taking place. “I’m just trying to preserve some semblance of freedom in public spaces, such as when you go for a walk,” she says.
有些人认为，谷歌眼镜的相机本身已构成侵犯隐私。加拿大安大略省信息与隐私专员安·加乌基恩(Ann Cavoukian)说，她在原则上喜欢可穿戴电脑这个想法，但对谷歌的所谓“社交信号”印象并不是太好。没错，屏幕的确是在发出亮光，但没人知道那说明什么。再说，不管你在照相还是在查看邮件，屏幕都会发出亮光。相比之下，她指出，在安大略省阿默斯特堡进行的一个试点项目中，戴着视频摄像头的警官还会戴着胸卡，澄清自己正在录像。“我只是试图在公共空间保留某种自由，比如出去散步时什么的，”她说。
It will only get harder for her, as additional covert techniques emerge. Glass includes an infrared sensor, pointed at a user’s right eye; DiGiovanni used it to create Winky, an app that senses when you wink and then takes a picture. (Winky is an Android app, not Glassware, so it has to be “side-loaded” onto Glass via a cable connected to another computer.) Balaban programmed a Linux-based app that takes a picture every four seconds, without turning on the screen at all. “You can imagine,” he adds dryly, “that is something Google most certainly does not support.”
随着更多隐蔽技术的出现，她的工作会变得更难。谷歌眼镜包含一个红外线感应器，指向使用者的右眼；迪乔凡尼用它来创造一个名叫“眨眼”的应用。你只要眨眼，这个应用就能感应到并拍下一张照片。（“眨眼”是一个Android应用，不是眼镜应用，所以它不得不通过与另一台电脑连线而“曲线安装”到眼镜上。）巴拉班写了一个根本不必开屏幕就可以每四秒钟照一张像的Linux应用软件。“你可以想象，”他不动声色地说，“谷歌肯定不支持这样的东西。”
Lee admits that most people have no idea what a glowing Glass screen indicates. “This is going to require use of education,” he says. But he also says that people will adapt, much as we did when cameras were added to phones a decade ago. The Glass users I spoke to agreed. Only a few had experienced antagonistic reactions from others; Highland did have one woman reach up and push his face away at a tech-industry event. “There were tons of cameras around,” he says, “but the only thing she cared about was Google Glass.”
李承认，大多数人不知道眼镜的屏幕发出亮光说明什么。“这将需要宣传教育，”他说。但他也表示，人们将会适应，正如十年前相机刚被添加到手机上时那样。与我交谈的谷歌眼镜用户也表示赞同。只有少数人从其他人那里经历了负面的反应；在一个科技工业的会展上，一位女性伸出手把海兰德的脸推开。“我身边有无数的照相机，”他说，“但她只反感谷歌眼镜。”
Anyone worried about privacy faces a countervailing pressure: people who actively want such technology. Balaban says face recognition could be used in a noncreepy ways — at large conferences, for example. When you see someone there, “maybe you’re reminded of the last e-mail you sent to them.”
任何担心隐私的人都面临着一个反向压力：其他人很想要这样的技术。巴拉班说，人脸识别也有正当的用途，比如在大型会议上。当你在那里看到某人的时候，“也许你会被提醒你上次给他们发的邮件。”
And many people might crave the new powers beyond face recognition that you can get by marrying computational power to human vision. A camera-equipped wearable could be useful for identifying objects, says Frank Chen, a venture capitalist whose firm, Andreessen Horowitz, invests in apps for Glass. Factory managers could determine inventory at a glance; repairmen could have a wearable computer display “augmented reality” animations to show them precisely how a part fits in a machine. Lecturers could immediately and accurately poll an audience vote.
许多人也许渴望通过将计算能力与人类视觉结合起来而获得的超越人脸识别的新能力。风险投资家弗兰克·陈(Frank Chen)说，一个配备相机的可穿戴电脑可被用于识别物体。他的公司安德森·霍洛维茨(Andreessen Horowitz)正投资于面向谷歌眼镜的应用软件。工厂管理人员可以看一眼就知道库存；修理人员可以在他们的可穿戴电脑上显示“增强现实”动画，以便精确地看到如何把一个部件装到一台机器上。讲课的人可在一瞬间准确统计听众表决。
“We’re going to be only limited by our imagination here,” Chen says.
“能限制我们的只有我们的想象力，”陈说。
As screens have proliferated, cultural critics have expressed considerable worry that we’re paying too much time and attention to devices. We’re “alone together,” to use Sherry Turkle’s phrase. The prospect of wearable computers has prompted a new round of such apocalyptic op-eds, nervous jokes and satirical responses. In The New Yorker, the novelist Gary Shteyngart wittily dissected the odd physical movements that Glass requires — how viewing a Web page necessitates using your head as a cursor, tilting it up and down and side to side, looking at a page only you can see, for all intents and purposes a private hallucination. In my part of Brooklyn, peers gently mocked me when I wore Glass. Teenagers on the subway, in contrast, cooed, and I got several cries of “Awesome!” on the street. To my elementary-school-age children, Glass became banal; they became used to me muttering Web queries as I tried to answer their questions. (“Do your glasses know the answer?” they asked me.)
随着屏幕的大量出现，文化批评家们十分担心我们在各种数码装置上花太多的时间和注意力。用雪莉·图克尔(Sherry Turkle)的话说，我们“孤独共处”。可穿戴电脑的到来，又带来了一波这样的末世评论文章、紧张的笑话和讽刺的反应。在《纽约客》(The New Yorker)杂志上，小说家加里·斯坦加尔特(Gary Shteyngart)调侃地解剖了谷歌眼镜所要求的身体动作，网上浏览如何必须使用你的头做光标，抬上抬下，左右扭摆，浏览一个只有你能看到的页面，怎么看都像是在一个人的世界里幻游。在纽约布鲁克林区我所居住的地方，我戴着谷歌眼镜的时候遭到别人轻嘲。相反，在地铁上，少年们看到我则发出咿呀赞叹，在街上我好几次听到有人向我喊“太棒了！”对我上小学的孩子来说，谷歌眼镜成了俗品；他们习惯了我在试图回答他们的问题时嘴里念念有词地下网络搜索指令。（“你的眼镜知道这个问题的答案吗？”他们问我。）
Will a wearable computer become just another screen that comes between people? Most Glass users I spoke to argued it was no stranger than the mobile phone seemed to be in the early ’90s. “I try to smile when I have it on,” says Cynthia Johnston Turner, the director of wind ensembles at Cornell University, “because I get looked at. The people I talk to have been very jazzed about it. As I am. I think it’s the future.” Her husband isn’t quite so enthusiastic. “He sort of shakes his head — ‘This is too weird.’ He has not gone out in public with me with it on.”
可穿戴电脑是否将变成仅仅是又一个隔开人们的屏幕？大多数我交谈过的人都说，它并不比手机在90年代初刚出现时显得更加奇怪。“我戴着它的时候试图微笑，”康奈尔大学管乐团负责人辛西娅·约翰逊·特纳(Cynthia Johnston Turner)说，“因为人们会注视我。我交谈过的人都对眼镜感到很新鲜好奇。就像我一样。我认为它代表着未来。”她的丈夫则不那么热衷。“他摇摇头说，‘这太奇怪了。’他迄今还没有在我戴着谷歌眼镜时跟我一起出门。”
After six weeks of trying Glass, I didn’t find it diverting my attention. Admittedly, that could easily change in the future, if it adds more apps vying for my attention. But I’ve already been through this cycle of adaptation with my smartphone. Like many, I’ve developed rules that govern my usage: I rarely check e-mail or social media on weekends; during meals or coffee with friends or while playing with my kids, I try to leave my phone in my pocket and ignore it.
在试用了六个星期的谷歌眼镜后，我没有发现它会分散我的注意力。不用说，在眼镜添加了很多争夺我的注意力的应用后，这种情况很可能会改变。但我在智能手机上已经经历了这个适应过程。像许多人一样，我也制订了使用规则：周末的时候，与朋友吃饭或喝咖啡的时候，或者陪孩子们玩的时候，我基本上不查看电子邮件和社交媒体。我试图把手机留在衣袋里，忽略它。
Yet despite my attempt to keep my Glass use low-key, my wife — generally an eager early adopter when it comes to new gadgets — never became comfortable with it. She hated the camera. She didn’t like the way it looked on my face, in part because of the device’s stigma, in part because of its asymmetry. And she kept commenting on the secretive dynamic it created. Most of our other computer devices are semipublic, even social: people can generally peer over your shoulder to see what you’re doing on a laptop or even a smartphone. But with Glass, the contents of your screen are a mystery to others. People are liable to imagine almost anything happening on it while they’re trying to talk to you. Video games? (Probably not; only a few exist for Glass right now.) Porn? (Google has banned porn-specific apps, though you can certainly do a search and call up a pornographic site in the device’s browser.) “I don’t know what’s going on in there,” she said. “And there’s no simple way for you to share it with me.” She was right: technically, Glass has a “screencast” mode that lets you display things on your phone, but it was so cumbersome I never really used it. Even if I wasn’t zoning out, the device made it look as if I was.
然而，尽管我尽量低调使用谷歌眼镜，我的妻子一直没能适应它，而她通常是一个早买早用新设备的人。她讨厌眼镜的相机。她不喜欢它在我脸上的样子，这部分是因为谷歌眼镜的名声，部分是因为它不对称。她不停地唠叨眼镜所营造的神神秘秘的氛围。我们其它的电脑设备多数是半公开的、甚至社交性的：人们一般可以凑过来看你在笔记本上、甚至手机上干什么。但是使用谷歌眼镜时，屏幕上的内容对别人而言是神秘的。当你跟人谈话时，他们难免会想象上面可能发生几乎任何事情。视频游戏？（恐怕不是；谷歌眼镜目前只有少数几个游戏。）毛片？（谷歌禁止黄色专题的应用，不过你当然可以在浏览器里搜索到一个黄色网站。）“我不知道那里面在干什么，”她说。“也没有一个简单的方式让你能跟我分享。”她说得不错：从技术上来说，眼镜有一个“屏播”状态设置，它允许你在手机上显示内容，但是这么做太麻烦了，我从来没用过。就算我没有走神儿，眼镜也让我显得走神儿。
Last month I tried a different type of wearable: a wristwatch computer called the MetaWatch Strata. It has a large L.C.D. and displays incoming text messages, alerts and e-mails. Unlike Glass, it can’t reply to messages or do searches, and it has no camera. But socially it was less intrusive. In the 19th century, wristwatches were considered effete and unmanly. But now we’re used to people glancing at their wrists, and nobody remarked on my Dick Tracy-esque accessory. Apple and Microsoft are both rumored to be developing a similar device, and there will surely be other iterations, long before the frequently imagined chip in your head.
上月我尝试了另一种不同的可穿戴电脑：一个名叫MetaWatch Strata的腕表式电脑。它有一个挺大的液晶屏幕，能显示进来的短信、提醒和电子邮件。与眼镜不同的是，它不能回信，不能搜索，也没有相机。但在社交上它不那么侵入。19世纪时，男人戴腕表被视为娘娘腔，不够男子汉。但现在我们早已习惯了人们瞥视腕表，没人评论我这个迪克·翠西(Dick Tracy)般的数码配饰。据说苹果(Apple)和微软(Microsoft)都在开发类似的装置，在人们频繁想象的大脑芯片成为现实前，还会有其它各种尝试。
With Glass, I eventually settled upon a midpoint. I wore it mostly when alone, or when working at my computer, or when hands-free photography would be a boon. But I quickly removed it in social situations — say, before entering a crowded cafe. I’d have to wait until everyone else has one.
至于谷歌眼镜，我最终在一个中间点上取得折衷。我多半是在一个人的时候，或者在电脑前工作的时候，或者在拍照不用手是巨大优势的时候才戴上谷歌眼镜。但在社交场合，比如说进入一个拥挤的咖啡屋时，我会很快摘下来。我得等到大家都戴的时候才戴。