LAST June, in an interview with Adam Bryant of The Times, Laszlo Bock, the senior vice president of people operations for Google — i.e., the guy in charge of hiring for one of the world’s most successful companies — noted that Google had determined that “G.P.A.’s are worthless as a criteria for hiring, and test scores are worthless. ... We found that they don’t predict anything.” He also noted that the “proportion of people without any college education at Google has increased over time” — now as high as 14 percent on some teams. At a time when many people are asking, “How’s my kid gonna get a job?” I thought it would be useful to visit Google and hear how Bock would answer.
去年6月，在接受《纽约时报》的亚当·布兰特(Adam Bryant)采访时，谷歌(Google)公司的人力运营高级副总裁拉兹洛·博克(Laszlo Bock)——也就是负责为当今世界数一数二的成功企业招聘员工的那个人——曾提到，谷歌已经明确了一点，“GPA作为一个招聘依据是毫无用处的，考试分数是毫无用处的。……我们发现它什么也预示不了。”他还提到“谷歌员工中没有接受过任何大学教育的人越来越多”——在某些团队已经高达14%。如今这么多人在问，“我的孩子怎么找得着工作啊？”我觉得去一趟谷歌，听听博克怎么说，应该会有帮助。
Don’t get him wrong, Bock begins, “Good grades certainly don’t hurt.” Many jobs at Google require math, computing and coding skills, so if your good grades truly reflect skills in those areas that you can apply, it would be an advantage. But Google has its eyes on much more.
别误会，博克一开始就说了，“有好成绩当然不是坏事。”谷歌的许多工作岗位需要数学、计算和编程技能，如果你的好成绩真的能反映应聘领域的技能，那么会是一项优势。但谷歌考察的远不止这些。
“There are five hiring attributes we have across the company,” explained Bock. “If it’s a technical role, we assess your coding ability, and half the roles in the company are technical roles. For every job, though, the No. 1 thing we look for is general cognitive ability, and it’s not I.Q. It’s learning ability. It’s the ability to process on the fly. It’s the ability to pull together disparate bits of information. We assess that using structured behavioral interviews that we validate to make sure they’re predictive.”
“我们有五个全公司适用的招聘属性，”博克解释说。“如果是技术性职位，我们会评估你的代码能力，公司里一半的职位是技术性的。不过，不管什么职位，我们首先关心的都是一般认知能力，这可不是智商。它是学习能力，是随机应变的能力，是把各种不相干的信息组合到一起的能力。我们会利用结构化行为面试来做出评估，我们对这些面试法进行验证，确保它们能说明问题。”
The second, he added, “is leadership — in particular emergent leadership as opposed to traditional leadership. Traditional leadership is, were you president of the chess club? Were you vice president of sales? How quickly did you get there? We don’t care. What we care about is, when faced with a problem and you’re a member of a team, do you, at the appropriate time, step in and lead. And just as critically, do you step back and stop leading, do you let someone else? Because what’s critical to be an effective leader in this environment is you have to be willing to relinquish power.”
他接着说，第二条“就是领导力——具体说是不同于传统领导力的新一代领导力。传统领导力说的是，你是象棋俱乐部理事长？你是销售副总裁？你花了多长时间升到这个位置？这些我们不关心。我们关心的是，出现问题时，你作为一个团队的一员，会不会在合适的时候站出来领导大家。同样关键的是，你会不会让开，停止领导，让别人来领导？因为要在这个环境里成为一名有效的领导者，你必须要有放弃权力的意愿。
What else? Humility and ownership. “It’s feeling the sense of responsibility, the sense of ownership, to step in,” he said, to try to solve any problem — and the humility to step back and embrace the better ideas of others. “Your end goal,” explained Bock, “is what can we do together to problem-solve. I’ve contributed my piece, and then I step back.”
还有呢？谦虚和主人意识。他说，“要出于责任感，出于主人意识，站出来”努力解决任何问题——要出于谦虚而退让，接受他人更出色的想法。博克解释说，“你的最终目的是，我们大家如何在一起把问题解决了。我已经出了我的一份力，然后我就让开。”
And it is not just humility in creating space for others to contribute, says Bock, it’s “intellectual humility. Without humility, you are unable to learn.” It is why research shows that many graduates from hotshot business schools plateau. “Successful bright people rarely experience failure, and so they don’t learn how to learn from that failure,” said Bock.
而博克说，也不仅仅是为他人的贡献创造空间的简单谦虚，还有“智性的谦虚。不谦虚就不能学习。”这就是为什么研究显示，很多人从大牌商学院毕业后进入了一成不变的状态。“成功的聪明人很少经历失败，所以他们没有学会如何从失败中学到东西，”博克说。
“They, instead, commit the fundamental attribution error, which is if something good happens, it’s because I’m a genius. If something bad happens, it’s because someone’s an idiot or I didn’t get the resources or the market moved. ... What we’ve seen is that the people who are the most successful here, who we want to hire, will have a fierce position. They’ll argue like hell. They’ll be zealots about their point of view. But then you say, ‘here’s a new fact,’ and they’ll go, ‘Oh, well, that changes things; you’re right.’ ” You need a big ego and small ego in the same person at the same time.
“他们倒是犯了一个根本上的归因错误，就是说，只要遇上好事，那是因为我是天才。遇上坏事，那是因为某人是傻瓜，或者是我手里没资源，或者是市场变了。……我们看到的是，在我们这里最成功的那些人，那些我们想招的人，都有一种坚定的立场。他们会玩命争辩。他们对自己的看法持有一种狂热的态度。可是一旦你说，‘现在有一个新的事实，’他们会说，‘哦，好，事情变化了；你是对的。’”你需要在一个人身上同时看到狂妄的自我和谦恭的自我。
The least important attribute they look for is “expertise.” Said Bock: “If you take somebody who has high cognitive ability, is innately curious, willing to learn and has emergent leadership skills, and you hire them as an H.R. person or finance person, and they have no content knowledge, and you compare them with someone who’s been doing just one thing and is a world expert, the expert will go: ‘I’ve seen this 100 times before; here’s what you do.’ ” Most of the time the nonexpert will come up with the same answer, added Bock, “because most of the time it’s not that hard.” Sure, once in a while they will mess it up, he said, but once in a while they’ll also come up with an answer that is totally new. And there is huge value in that.
在他们眼里，最不重要的属性是“专业技能”。博克说：“如果你找到有很高认知能力的、天生富有好奇心的、愿意学习的、拥有新型领导技能的人，聘他们做人力资源或财务工作，而他们不具备内容知识，然后你把他们和那些只做一件事情、成为这件事情的世界级专家的人相比较，专家会说：‘这个我经历过一百次了；你该这么做。’”多数时候，非专家会得出同样的回答，博克说，“因为多数时候事情没那么难。”当然，他们偶尔会搞砸，但偶尔却能得出一个全新的主意。而那将是极具价值的。
To sum up Bock’s approach to hiring: Talent can come in so many different forms and be built in so many nontraditional ways today, hiring officers have to be alive to every one — besides brand-name colleges. Because “when you look at people who don’t go to school and make their way in the world, those are exceptional human beings. And we should do everything we can to find those people.” Too many colleges, he added, “don’t deliver on what they promise. You generate a ton of debt, you don’t learn the most useful things for your life. It’s [just] an extended adolescence.”
总结博克的招聘方法：在今天，才能可能表现为各种各样的形式，可以用各种各样非传统的方式去培养，招聘人员一定要对每一种都有意识——不能仅限于大学的牌子。因为“你看到一些没上过学的人，在这世上走出自己的路来，那些都是了不起的人。我们应该尽我们所能去找到那些人。”他还说，太多的大学“没有实践它们的承诺。你背上了一大笔债务，却学不到对你的人生最有意义的东西。这（不过）是一段延长了的青春期。”
Google attracts so much talent it can afford to look beyond traditional metrics, like G.P.A. For most young people, though, going to college and doing well is still the best way to master the tools needed for many careers. But Bock is saying something important to them, too: Beware. Your degree is not a proxy for your ability to do any job. The world only cares about — and pays off on — what you can do with what you know (and it doesn’t care how you learned it). And in an age when innovation is increasingly a group endeavor, it also cares about a lot of soft skills — leadership, humility, collaboration, adaptability and loving to learn and re-learn. This will be true no matter where you go to work.
谷歌吸引着众多人才，它有抛弃GPA之类传统衡量标准的资本。不过对大多数人来说，上大学，学出好成绩，依然是掌握许多职场所需技能的最佳方式。但是博克说了一个对他们同样很重要的东西：小心，你的学位并不代表你有能力做任何的工作。这个世界唯一关心的——也是会为此付钱给你的——是你用自己的所知能做些什么，而且也不关心你是怎么知道这些东西的。在这个时代，创新越来越成为一种群体事业，世界更在意一些软技能——领导力、谦虚、协作能力、适应力和学习与再学习的意愿。无论你在哪里工作，这些都适用。