Google on Thursday announced one of the biggest changes to its search engine, a rewriting of its algorithm to handle more complex queries that affects 90 percent of all searches.
周四，谷歌(Google)公布了谷歌搜索引擎的最大变化之一，亦即更新算法以应对较为复杂的查询，这一变化将对90%的搜索产生影响。
The change, which represents a new approach to search for Google, required the biggest changes to the company’s search algorithm since 2000. Now, Google, the world’s most popular search engine, will focus more on trying to understand the meanings of and relationships among things, as opposed to its original strategy of matching keywords.
这个改变体现着谷歌处理搜索的一种新方法，需要谷歌对该公司的搜索算法做出自2000年以来的最大改变。如今，作为世界上最受欢迎的搜索引擎，谷歌将更注重努力理解事物的含义及事物之间的关系，与起初采用的关键字匹配方法有所不同。
The company made the changes, executives said, because Google users are asking increasingly long and complex questions and are searching Google more often on mobile phones with voice search.
高管们表示，谷歌之所以做出上述改变，是因为谷歌用户搜索的问题越来越长，越来越复杂，通过手机的语音搜索功能进行搜索的频率也比以前高。
“They said, ‘Let’s go back and basically replace the engine of a 1950s car,’ ” said Danny Sullivan, founding editor of Search Engine Land, an industry blog. “It’s fair to say the general public seemed not to have noticed that Google ripped out its engine while driving down the road and replaced it with something else.”
“他们说，‘让我们回过头去，彻底换掉20世纪50年代的汽车的引擎，’”行业博客“搜索引擎天地”(Search Engine Land)创始编辑丹尼·沙利文(Danny Sullivan)说。“可以说，公众似乎没有发现，谷歌在一路向前时撤掉了引擎，把它换成了其他东西。”
Google announced the new algorithm, called Hummingbird, at an event to celebrate the search engine’s 15th birthday. The event was held in the garage Google’s founders rented when they started the company. Google revealed few details about how the new algorithm works or what it changed. It said it made the change a month ago, though consumers may not have noticed a significant difference to search results during that time.
在公司创立15周年的庆祝活动上，谷歌公布了名为“蜂鸟”(Hummingbird)的新算法。活动在谷歌创始人创办公司时租用的车库举行。谷歌没有透露新算法运行模式及其衍生改变的相关细节。谷歌称，该公司是在一个月前做出这一改变的，但在此后的这段时间里，用户可能没发现搜索结果有什么显著变化。
Google originally matched keywords in a search query to the same words on Web pages. Hummingbird is the culmination of a shift to understanding the meaning of phrases in a query and displaying Web pages that more accurately match that meaning.
谷歌起初是根据搜索查询的关键字查找包含相同词语的网页。谷歌一直在转向理解搜索短语的含义，显示与短语含义匹配度更高的网页，“蜂鸟”是这场转变的高峰。
Google had taken smaller steps toward this. The Knowledge Graph, introduced last year, understands the meanings of and relationships between things, people and places, which is known as semantic search. It is why a search for Michelle Obama, for instance, shows her birthday, hometown and family members’ names, as well as links to related people like Hillary Rodham Clinton and Joseph R. Biden Jr.
此外，谷歌已经朝这个目标做了一些较小的努力。去年推出的知识图谱(Knowledge Graph)就能理解不同事物、人和地方的含义，以及它们之间的关系，这就是所谓的语义搜索。正是由于这样的改变，搜索米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)所得的结果才会显示她的出生日期、家乡及家庭成员的名字，甚至还包括希拉里·罗德姆· 克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)和小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)等与相关人士的链接。
The algorithm also builds on work Google has done to understand conversational language, like interpreting what pronouns in a search query refer to.
这个算法还依赖于谷歌为了读懂对话语言所做的工作，比如解释查询词条中代词的含义。
Hummingbird extends that to all Web searches, not just results related to entities included in the Knowledge Graph. It tries to connect phrases and understand concepts in a long query.
“蜂鸟”把这项功能延伸到了所有的网页搜索上，不限于与知识图谱所含词条相关的结果。它会尝试将较长查询词条中的词组联系起来，并理解查询词条中的相关概念。
The outcome is not a change in how Google searches the Web, but in the results that it shows. Unlike some of its other algorithm changes, including one that pushed down so-called content farms in search results, Hummingbird is unlikely to noticeably affect certain categories of Web businesses, Mr. Sullivan said. Instead, Google says it believes that users will see more precise results.
由此而来的结果并没有改变谷歌搜索网页的方式，但却改变了它显示的搜索结果。沙利文说，与谷歌其他的一些算法变化（其中包括一个在搜索结果中叠加所谓的“内容农场”的算法）不同，“蜂鸟”不太可能对某些网络业务造成明显影响。相反，谷歌说，它认为用户会看到更精确的结果。
Google also announced a few smaller changes to searching. It is changing the visual layout of mobile search to better suit phones and tablets. People can now compare two things, like butter and olive oil, or corgis and pugs, in search results. And with a new app for Apple devices, people can set reminders on an Android device at home and receive them later on an iPhone.
谷歌还宣布要对搜索进行一些较小的改动。它正在对用于移动设备的搜索页面布局进行修改，使之更适合手机和平板电脑。人们现在可以在搜索结果中对两种事物进行比较，比如黄油和橄榄油，柯基犬和巴哥犬。此外，借助为苹果(Apple)设备设计的一款新应用，人们还可以在家里的Android设备上设置提醒，随后用iPhone进行接收。