Google and a corporation associated with NASA are forming a laboratory to study artificial intelligence by means of computers that use the unusual properties of quantum physics. Their quantum computer, which performs complex calculations thousands of times faster than existing supercomputers, is expected to be in active use in the third quarter of this year.
谷歌(Google)和一个附属美国国家航空航天局(NASA)的机构正在组建一个实验室，为的是用具有量子物理的不寻常特性的计算机来研究人工智能。他们的量子计算机，能以比现有的超级计算机快千倍以至万倍的速度，进行复杂运算，预计将于今年第三季度投入使用。
The Quantum Artificial Intelligence Lab, as the entity is called, will focus on machine learning, which is the way computers take note of patterns of information to improve their outputs. Personalized Internet search and predictions of traffic congestion based on GPS data are examples of machine learning. The field is particularly important for things like facial or voice recognition, biological behavior, or the management of very large and complex systems.
这个新单位的名字是量子人工智能实验室(Quantum Artificial Intelligence Lab)，它将致力于机器学习(machine learning)的研究，所谓机器学习，是指计算机通过注意到信息中的模式，来提高其学习的成果。机器学习的例子包括个性化的互联网检索，以及基于GPS数据的交通堵塞预测。这个领域对于面孔或语音识别、生物行为，以及管理非常庞大且复杂的系统来说，尤为重要。
“If we want to create effective environmental policies, we need better models of what’s happening to our climate,” Google said in a blog post announcing the partnership. “Classical computers aren’t well suited to these types of creative problems.”
“如果我们想建立有效的环境政策，我们就需要有能够预测我们的气候将发生什么的更好的模型，”谷歌在宣布这一伙伴关系的博文中称。“传统计算机已不适于解决这类创造性问题。”
Google said it had already devised machine-learning algorithms that work inside the quantum computer, which is made by D-Wave Systems of Burnaby, British Columbia. One could quickly recognize information, saving power on mobile devices, while another was successful at sorting out bad or mislabeled data. The most effective methods for using quantum computation, Google said, involved combining the advanced machines with its clouds of traditional computers.
谷歌称已经设计出能在量子计算机运行的机器学习算法，这种计算机由加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省伯纳比的D-Wave系统公司(D-Wave Systems)制造。一种算法可以迅速识别信息，为移动设备省电，而另一种能成功地筛出坏数据或被错误标记的数据。谷歌称，使用量子计算最有效的方法，是把这种先进计算机与传统计算机的云计算系统结合起来。
Google bought the machine in cooperation with the Universities Space Research Association, a nonprofit research corporation that works with NASA and others to advance space science and technology. Outside researchers will be invited to the lab as well.
谷歌与大学太空研究协会(Universities Space Research Association)合作购买了这台量子计算机，该协会是一家非营利性研究机构，与NASA等其他机构合作推动太空科学技术的进步。这个单位外的研究者也将被邀请参加实验室的工作。
This year D-Wave sold its first commercial quantum computer to Lockheed Martin. Lockheed officials said the computer would be used for the test and measurement of things like jet aircraft designs, or the reliability of satellite systems.
今年D-Wave首次将一台商用量子计算机出售给洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)。洛马官员称，量子计算机将被用于测试和测量喷气式飞机设计、或卫星系统的可靠性等问题。
The D-Wave computer works by framing complex problems in terms of optimal outcomes. The classic example of this type of problem is figuring out the most efficient way a traveling salesman can visit 10 customers, but real-world problems now include hundreds of such variables and contingencies. D-Wave’s machine frames the problem in terms of energy states, and uses quantum physics to rapidly determine an outcome that satisfies the variables with the least use of energy.
D-Wave计算机用的工作方法是给复杂问题找到最佳解决方案。这类复杂问题的一个经典例子，是找出一名旅行推销员拜访10名顾客的最佳路线，但现实世界中的这类问题通常包括上百个变量和约束条件。D-Wave计算机把它们作为能量状态来考虑，用量子物理迅速地找到一个能满足所有变量和条件的最低能量结果。
In tests last September, an independent researcher found that for some types of problems the quantum computer was 3,600 times faster than traditional supercomputers. According to a D-Wave official, the machine performed even better in Google’s tests, which involved 500 variables with different constraints.
在去年9月份的一次测试中，一名独立研究者发现，对于某些类型的运算，量子计算机的速度是传统超级计算机的3600倍。一名D-Wave官员称，量子计算机在谷歌的测试中表现得更加出色，用于测试的问题涉及了具有不同约束条件的500个变量。
“The tougher, more complex ones had better performance,” said Colin Williams, D-Wave’s director of business development. “For most problems, it was 11,000 times faster, but in the more difficult 50 percent, it was 33,000 times faster. In the top 25 percent, it was 50,000 times faster.” Google declined to comment, aside from the blog post.
“问题越难、越复杂，量子计算机的表现就越好，”D-Wave的业务发展总监科林·威廉斯(Colin Williams)说。“对于大多数问题，它快1.1万倍；但对较难的50%的问题，它要快3.3万倍；对最难的25%的问题，它要快上5万倍。”谷歌拒绝对此置评，只是发了那篇博文。
The machine Google will use at NASA's Ames Research Facility, located near Google headquarters, makes use of the interactions of 512 quantum bits, or qubits, to determine optimization. They plan to upgrade the machine to 2,048 qubits when this becomes available, probably within the next year or two. That machine could be exponentially more powerful.
 谷歌将使用的这台计算机，放在距其总部不远的NASA艾姆斯研究中心(NASA's Ames Research facility)，该机器用512个量子比特或量子位(qubits)的相互作用来做能量优化。有2,048个量子比特的机器预计能在一两年内实现，届时实验室将给其机器升级。新计算机的运算能力将会指数级增长。
Google did not say how it might deploy a quantum computer into its existing global network of computer-intensive data centers, which are among the world’s largest. D-Wave, however, intends eventually for its quantum machine to hook into cloud computing systems, doing the exceptionally hard problems that can then be finished off by regular servers.
 谷歌并未透露如何把量子计算机搭配到它现有的世界上最大的密集计算数据中心构成的全球网络中。D-Wave希望其量子计算机能与云计算系统相连，只处理特别困难的问题，其余任务交给普通计算机来完成。
Potential applications include finance, health care, and national security, said Vern Brownell, D-Wave’s chief executive. “The long-term vision is the quantum cloud, with a few high-end systems in the back end,” he said. “You could use it to train an algorithm that goes into a phone, or do lots of simulations for a financial institution.”
D-Wave首席执行官维恩·布劳内尔(Vern Brownell)说，潜在的应用包括金融、医疗保健和国家安全。他说，“我们的长远愿望是建立量子云计算系统，用少数高端系统作为后端，可以用其训练出一种能在手机上使用的算法，或为一家金融机构做大量的模拟计算。”
Mr. Brownell, who founded a computer server company, was also the chief technical officer at Goldman Sachs. Goldman is an investor in D-Wave, with Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com. Amazon Web Services is another global cloud, which rents data storage, computing, and applications to thousands of companies.
布劳内尔曾创立过一家计算机服务器公司，并担任过高盛公司(Goldman Sachs)的首席技术官。高盛和亚马逊(Amazon.com)的创始人杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)都是D-Wave的投资者。亚马逊网络服务(Amazon Web Services)是另一个全球性的云计算系统，为成千上万的公司提供数据储备、计算和应用程序的租赁服务。
This month D-Wave established an American company, considered necessary for certain types of sales of national security technology to the United States government.
本月，D-Wave成立了一家美国分公司，这对向美国政府出售某些特定类型的国家安全技术时被认为是必要的。