He was a Google engineer and avid climber who sought to take the company’s Street View project to the world’s tallest mountains.
他是一名谷歌(Google)工程师，热爱登山运动，他曾经试图把公司的街景项目带到世界上一些最高的山峰。
On Saturday, Dan Fredinburg was at a base camp on Mount Everest when a powerful earthquake in Nepal set off an avalanche. Mr. Fredinburg was killed, Google said in a statement posted on its website.
周六，丹·弗莱丁伯格(Dan Fredinburg)正在珠穆朗玛峰的一个营地时，尼泊尔的一场强烈地震引发了雪崩。谷歌在其网站上发布的一份声明中称，弗莱丁伯格已经遇难。
“Sadly, we lost one of our own in this tragedy,” the statement said. “Dan Fredinburg, a longtime member of the Privacy organization in Mountain View, was in Nepal with three other Googlers, hiking Mount Everest. He has passed away. The other three Googlers with him are safe, and we are working to get them home quickly.”
“很遗憾，我们在这场悲剧中失去了我们的一名同事，”声明中说。“丹·弗莱丁伯格在山景市的隐私部门任职多年，当时他与另外三名谷歌人在尼泊尔攀登珠穆朗玛峰。丹已经离世。与他在一起的另外三名谷歌人安全无虞，我们正努力让他们尽快回家。”
Shortly before, an Instagram post on Mr. Fredinburg’s account went up: “This is Dan’s little sister Megan,” the message began. “I regret to inform all who loved him that during the avalanche on Everest early this morning our Dan suffered from a major head injury and didn’t make it.”
在这之前不久，弗莱丁伯格的Instagram账户发出了一条消息：“我是丹的妹妹梅根，”其中写道。“我遗憾地告诉所有爱他的人，在今天早上珠穆朗玛峰的雪崩当中，我们的丹因头部严重受伤，未能幸存。”
According to his LinkedIn page, Mr. Fredinburg had worked at Google since 2007, where he described himself as “Google Adventurer.” He worked on Google’s privacy team, recently helping to advise on high-profile projects, including the self-driving car and Project Loon, an attempt to use stratospheric balloons to deliver high-speed Internet to rural areas and the developing world.
从弗莱丁伯格的LinkedIn主页上看，他从2007年开始一直在谷歌工作，称自己是“谷歌探险家”。他在谷歌的隐私保护团队工作，最近在担任一些引人关注的项目的顾问，包括自动驾驶汽车和Project Loon，后者旨在利用平流层的热气球，把高速互联网带到农村地区和发展中国家。
Mr. Fredinburg had led a number of expeditions to the Everest area, taking images for Google’s Street View project. In 2013, he announced the availability of imagery of famous mountains in Google Maps.
弗莱丁伯格多次率领团队前往珠穆朗玛峰探险，为谷歌的街景项目采集图像。2013年，他宣布在谷歌地图上已经可以找到一些名山的图像。
“Now you can explore some of the most famous mountains on Earth, including Aconcagua (South America), Kilimanjaro (Africa), Mount Elbrus (Europe) and Everest Base Camp (Asia) on Google Maps,” he wrote in a blog post in 2013.
“现在你可以在谷歌地图上探索地球上一些最著名的山脉了，包括阿空加瓜山（南美）、乞力马扎罗山（非洲）、厄尔布鲁士山（欧洲）和珠峰大本营（亚洲），”他2013年在一篇博客中写道。
“While there’s nothing quite like standing on the mountain,” he added, “with Google Maps you can instantly transport yourself to the top of these peaks and enjoy the sights without all of the avalanches, rock slides, crevasses and dangers from altitude and weather that mountaineers face.”
“没有什么能与登临绝顶的感受相比，”他还说，“但有了谷歌地图，你可以转眼就攀上山顶去欣赏那些风景，而不用担心雪崩、落石、裂缝，以及登山者要面对的海拔和天气所带来的危险。”
On March 30, Mr. Fredinburg’s Twitter and Instagram accounts showed a picture of an orange water bottle with a carabiner dangling from it in a room full of climbing gear. It read: “2015 Everest Expedition fully underway. Gear is ready. I am ready. Now spending some time thinking about how this year’s climb can be as impactful as possible!”
3月30日，弗莱丁伯格的Twitter和Instagram的账户上发布了一张照片。上面是一个摆满登山装备的房间，有一只橙色的水杯上挂着一个登山扣。照片旁写的是：“2015珠峰探险全面展开。装备已经准备好了。我也准备好了。现在要花一些时间思考，如何让今年的登山行动产生尽可能大的影响！”
He went on to document Katmandu and Lukla, Nepal. “The most dangerous airport in the world (due to lack of sufficient runway),” he wrote of Lukla, accompanying a cockpit photo of a short runway surrounded by buildings.
他接着对尼泊尔加德满都和卢卡拉进行了记录。“这是世界上最危险的机场（由于缺乏足够的跑道），”他在提到卢卡拉时说。旁边配有从驾驶舱里拍摄的照片，可以看到被建筑包围的一条短跑道。
On April 6, Mr. Fredinburg posted: “First views of Everest in the distance got us screaming and dancing like idiots.”
4月6日，弗莱丁伯格发帖称：“第一次从远距离看到珠峰时，我们不禁发出尖叫，手舞足蹈，像白痴一样。”
On April 10, he visited Lama Geshe, a local religious leader, “to get blessed for our journey.”
4月10日，他拜访了当地宗教领袖格西喇嘛(Lama Geshe)，“为我们的旅程祈福。”
He documented yaks, Sherpas and an “unseasonal snowstorm” that required Mr. Fredinburg and his team to dig out their tent on the morning of April 20.
4月20日上午，他提到了牦牛和夏尔巴人。还说由于一场“非季节性暴风雪”，弗莱丁伯格和他的团队不得不把他们的帐篷从雪里挖出来。
His last Instagram post, on Friday, said: “Day 22: Ice training with @micbattelli means frequent stops for morning cappuccino, regardless of danger.”
周五，他在Instagram上发的最后一条称：“第22天：和 @micbattelli 一起进行冰上训练意味着不断要停下来喝清晨卡布奇诺，不管有多危险。”
The next message came on Saturday, when his sister wrote: “All our love and thanks to those who shared this life with our favorite hilarious strong-willed man. He was and is everything to us.”
下一条消息来自周六，他的妹妹写道：“他是个非常有幽默感而意志坚强的人，是我们的最爱。我们对所有曾与他共享此生的人表示爱和感谢。不论过去还是现在，他都是我们的一切。”