Unchanged for decades, China’s music scene has been literally rocked in recent years by the internet.
几十年来，中国的音乐场景一直变化不大，直到近年来在互联网的撼动下摇滚了一把。
Virtually overnight, the newly connected Chinese were exposed to thousands of bands from dozens of countries. But while Western listeners have a choice of music sites, including Apple Music, Tidal and Pandora, the Chinese internet is dominated by one: Douban.com.
几乎在一夜之间，刚刚连上互联网的中国人就可以接触到来自几十个国家的几千支乐队。但是，虽然西方听众会在苹果音乐(Apple Music)，Tidal和Pandora等各种音乐网站当中进行选择，中国互联网在这一领域却被豆瓣网(douban.com)所统治。
China’s most popular streaming site, Douban is essential to the country’s growing music scene. The bare-bones and mostly monochromatic site attracts more than 40 percent of Chinese internet users every month. Of China’s 649 million internet users, an estimated 270 million individuals visit Douban monthly to stream music and interact with artists on the site’s social network, according to the journal Participations.
豆瓣是中国最受欢迎的流媒体网站，对于这个国家不断发展中的音乐行业非常重要。它的设计极为简单，几乎是单色调的，然而每月却吸引着超过40％的中国互联网用户。据《参与》(Participations)杂志称，在中国的6.49亿互联网用户中，豆瓣网的月活跃用户达到2.7亿，他们使用该网站的流媒体音乐服务，并利用它的社交网络与音乐人互动。
“Every artist in China seems to be on it and has a page,” said Michael Pettis, an American who founded the Beijing music bars D-22 and XP. “So it plays a role that I don’t think there’s anything comparable in the West. It’s this massive forum that whoever you are, famous or not, good or bad, you’re likely to have a page.”
“中国的所有音乐人似乎都在豆瓣上有自己的网页，”迈克尔·佩蒂斯(Michael Pettis)说，这位美国人在北京创立了音乐酒吧D-22和XP。“所以我认为它所扮演的角色是西方那些网站无法与之相比的。它是一个巨型论坛，无论你是谁、是否有名、是好还是坏，你都可以在这里拥有一个页面。”
Mr. Pettis, a former Wall Street trader, moved to China in 2002. Both D-22 and XP now hold a prominent place in the history of Chinese indie music. So does Mr. Pettis, who, in addition to teaching finance at Peking University, runs the independent music label Maybe Mars.
佩蒂斯曾是一位华尔街交易员，于2002年移居中国。D-22和XP在中国独立音乐的历史上都占据着显著地位。佩蒂斯本人也是如此，除了在北京大学教授金融课程，他还经营着独立音乐厂牌兵马司(Maybe Mars)。
China’s internet adoption rates grew dramatically in the 2000s and, for music fans, getting online meant unlocking a library of previously unavailable music. China effectively had the history of Western popular music dumped on it at once, and experienced it without the weight of context or popular criticism.
中国的互联网使用率在2000年代大幅增长，对于乐迷来说，上网意味着打开了一座图书馆，可以在这里听到以前无法听到的音乐。面对迅速汹涌而至的全套西方流行音乐，中国卓有成效地吸收了它们，并且没有时代背景的压力，也不受大众评论的干扰。
Inspired by what they heard, young Chinese formed bands, and Douban, which started in 2005, gave them a platform.
年轻的中国人从他们听到的东西当中得到启发，组成了乐队，自2005年开始运行的豆瓣给了他们一个平台。
While the embryonic phase of the scene produced facsimiles of well-known American bands like The Ramones and The Stooges, modern Chinese popular music has shot off in many different, and often experimental, directions.
虽然在早期还有很多模仿“雷蒙斯”(The Ramones)和“傀儡”(The Stooges)等美国著名乐队的痕迹，现代中国流行音乐已经在开始向各种不同方向发展，并且往往带有实验性质。
One of the most talked about new bands is the psychedelic/experimental band Chui Wan, formed in part by connections its members made on Douban. For its lead singer, Yan Yulong, “Douban is the most important website for the music scene in China.”
迷幻/实验乐队“吹万”是最受关注的新乐队之一，组建的部分原因就是成员们在豆瓣网上建立起了联系。主唱闫玉龙认为，“豆瓣是中国音乐领域最重要的网站。”