Powerful and modern yet with a nod to past glories, the Hongqi L5 limousine appears to be the perfect vehicle for the image the Chinese government wants to project, and this the week state media reported that it has been designated an official car for a gathering of global leaders in Beijing next month.
强劲有力，既现代又闪现着旧日的辉煌，红旗L5豪华轿车的风采似乎与中国政府想要展现的形象完美契合。一场汇聚全球领导人的峰会将于下月在北京召开，据中国官方媒体本周报道，红旗L5已被指定为官方用车。
On Tuesday, a photo of rows of the shiny black limousines — 18 feet long and outfitted with bulletproof windows — dominated the front page of The Beijing News. “Domestically produced Hongqi will take the spotlight at APEC,” the headline read, referring to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in the Chinese capital on Nov. 5-11. People’s Daily, posted a slide show on its website featuring photos of the limousine. It listed its price at 6 million renminbi, or $980,000.
占据《新京报》周二头版的一张照片，拍的是一排排闪闪发亮的黑色红旗L5，车长18英尺，并配有防弹窗。照片的标题提到了将于11月5日至11日在中国首都举行的亚太经合组织(Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation ，简称APEC)会议：“国产红旗亮相APEC”。《人民日报》则在其网站上以幻灯片的形式播放了红旗L5的照片。这款车标价600万人民币，约合98万美元。
With President Xi Jinping leading a campaign promoting national pride under the rubric “The Chinese Dream,” state media coverage of the limousine is not surprising. The country’s only domestically produced luxury car will be a feature of the summit meeting, a chance to show off China’s increasing power. President Obama is slated to attend, as are the leaders of Russia, Japan and other countries among APEC’s 21 members.
鉴于中国国家主席习近平正以“中国梦”为口号引领一场增强民族自豪感的运动，官方媒体对红旗L5的报道并不令人感到奇怪。作为唯一一款国产豪华轿车，它将成为这场峰会的一个特色，使中国得以展示日益强大的国力。APEC共有21个成员国，美国总统奥巴马，以及俄罗斯、日本等其他成员国的领导人将出席此次会议。
The last time China hosted the APEC summit meeting was in 2001, shortly before it joined the World Trade Organization and became the world’s biggest exporter — propelling more than a decade of economic growth. Now that China is the world’s second-largest economy, its leaders have proved willing to throw some cash around to ensure this year’s meeting fully represents the country’s transformation into an economic giant and important geopolitical player.
中国上一次主办APEC峰会是在2001年。那之前，它刚刚加入了世界贸易组织(WTO)，成为了世界第一大出口国——此后十多年间，其经济一直在增长。中国目前是世界第二大经济体；事实证明，为了确保今年的会议充分展现中国已经蜕变为经济巨人，在地缘政治中扮演着重要角色，其领导人是乐于花费些钱的。
Thirteen years ago, APEC organizers in Beijing, lacking a strong domestic contender, enlisted a fleet of Shanghai GM Buicks as the main official vehicle. Now the Hongqi L5 limousines and the Hongqi H7 sedan, both made by the FAW Car Company, will be deployed to transport delegates, the company announced earlier.
13年前，由于国产汽车竞争力不强，北京的APEC会议组织者缺乏选择的余地，上海通用的别克车队成为了主要的官方服务用车。现在，受命接送会议代表的将是红旗L5和红旗H7——生产这两款汽车的一汽轿车股份有限公司于早些时候宣布了这一消息。
The Hongqi, which means Red Flag, is a brand that, like the People’s Republic itself, has come a long way since its beginnings in 1958. The car was once the choice for senior officials, including Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping, but it fell into obscurity when production was shut down in the early 1980s. However, thanks to a government-led effort to encourage the growth of domestic car manufacturers, the historic brand has re-emerged, more luxurious than ever, as the official car of choice.
“红旗”品牌始创于1958年，和中华人民共和国这个国家一样，它走过了漫漫长路。红旗汽车曾是毛泽东、邓小平等高级官员的首选用车，但在上世纪80年代一度停产，变得默默无闻。不过，由于中国政府竭力推动国产汽车厂商的发展，这个历史悠久的品牌已重现江湖——现在的红旗比以前豪华得多，是官方用车的首选。
China has already rolled out the L5 for diplomatic events. Last year, President François Hollande of France became the first foreign leader to be transported by the L5 on a state visit. The model made its commercial debut last April at the Beijing Auto Show. According to CarNewsChina.com, the first civilian L5 was sold at the show to a Chinese businessman for 4.9 million renminbi, about $800,000.
中国已经在一些外交场合开始使用L5。去年，法国总统弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande )成为到中国进行国事访问的外国领导人中第一位用L5接送的领导人。今年4月，L5在北京车展上完成了它在商业领域的首次亮相。据CarNewsChina.com报道，第一辆民用L5在车展上卖给了一位中国商人，售价为490万人民币，约合80万美元。
In preparation for the APEC meeting, the Beijing government has enacted a range of other measures to impress delegates and ensure the meeting goes seamlessly.
为了给APEC会议代表留下难忘的印象，并确保会议流程的无缝衔接，北京政府筹备会议时还制定了其他一系列措施。