In the fall of 2013, one of Mexico's top housing officials posted an item on Twitter about an advertising campaign promoting mortgages for low-income Mexicans. The campaign's message was simple: “The most important thing in life is in your house.”
2013年秋，墨西哥负责住房的一位主要官员在Twitter上发贴，内容是关于在低收入墨西哥人中推广贷款的广告活动。该活动的信息很简单：“生活中最重要的东西是你的住房。”
It carried the tag line, “Homes with value.”
广告的口号是，“房有所值。”
The official, Alejandro Murat Hinojosa, knows something about homes with value, especially across the border.
该官员亚历杭德罗·穆拉特·伊诺霍萨(Alejandro Murat Hinojosa)很了解房屋的价值，尤其是在边境的那边。
Over the years, he and members of his immediate family — starting with his father, José Murat Casab, a former governor of Oaxaca — have bought at least six properties in the United States, including two condominiums near a ski resort in Utah, another at the beach in south Texas and at least one in Manhattan, according to records and interviews. In New York, José Murat's children have also lived for periods of time in one of the more modest condos at the luxurious Time Warner Center overlooking Central Park.
多年来，他和他的直系亲属——从其父亲、瓦哈卡州的前任州长何塞·穆拉特·卡萨布(José Murat Casab)算起——已在美国买了至少六处房地产，从记录和采访来看，这些房地产包括犹他州一个滑雪胜地附近的两套公寓，还有得克萨斯州南部海滩的一套、以及位于曼哈顿的至少一套公寓。在纽约，何塞·穆拉特的子女还曾在俯瞰中央公园的豪华时代华纳中心档次相对低的一套公寓中住过一段时间。
Ownership of the homes was often obscured through variations on family names listed on deeds or through shell companies, according to records examined by The New York Times. In fact, on the day the younger Murat tweeted about the housing program, public filings in Florida recorded the transfer of a $750,000 Boca Raton condo that had been purchased in his wife's name to an entity called IMRO 2013 Trust.
从《纽约时报》查阅的记录来看，这些房屋的所有权往往通过房产契约上姓氏的变化、或通过空壳公司掩盖起来。实际上，就在小穆拉特在Twitter上发关于住房计划帖子的当天，在佛罗里达州的公开档案中，出现了博卡拉顿一套价值75万美元(约合458万元人民币)的共管公寓从他妻子的名下转移到一个名为IMRO 2013 Trust的实体名下的记录。
The Murats' real estate holdings stand in contrast to the Everyman image that José Murat, renowned for his political might and booming personality, worked to project as governor.
穆拉特家人持有的房地产，与何塞·穆拉特担任州长期间力图打造的普通人形象，形成鲜明对照，他以政治实力和风风火火的个性闻名。
“I arrived to the state government with my wife, Lupita, and my four children,” he said a year before his term ended in 2004. “And I'm leaving as I arrived, with the same trousers, with the same shoes, with the same shirts and the same car.”
在自己的任期于2004年结束的一年前，他曾说，“我和妻子露皮塔(Lupita)以及四个孩子一起住进州政府。我要离开了，和我来的时候一样，穿着同样的裤子、同样的鞋子、同样的衬衫，开着同样的车。”
The Murat properties, which emerged during a Times investigation into the people behind shell companies that own condominiums at the Time Warner Center, have not been the subject of any official inquiry and there is no evidence of any wrongdoing behind the purchases. But the private assets of Mexico's public officials have come under intense focus recently with a fresh round of revelations and protests centered on the country's endemic corruption.
穆拉特家的财产是时报调查在时代华纳中心拥有公寓的空壳公司背后的人物时发现的，这些财产不是任何官方调查的对象，也没有证据表明购置它们涉及任何不当行为。但是，由于新一轮的披露，墨西哥政府官员的私有财产最近已受到人们的强烈关注，也成为针对该国腐败成风的抗议活动的焦点。
Last fall, a scandal erupted over reports that a government contractor had built a multimillion-dollar home for the wife of Mexico's president, Enrique Peña Nieto. While Peña Nieto's wife, Angélica Rivera, said she was paying for it with money she earned as a soap opera star, she also revealed she owned a condo in Florida. Around the same time, Peña Nieto disclosed his own $3.3 million in real estate, jewelry, art and other investments. Last week, he said a new federal comptroller would examine purchases by him and his wife of homes in Mexico.
去年秋天曾爆发过一起丑闻，有报道称，一个政府承包商为墨西哥总统恩里克·培尼亚·涅托(Enrique Peña Nieto)的妻子建了一座价值数百万美元的豪宅。而培尼亚·涅托的妻子安杰莉卡·里韦拉(Angélica Rivera)则说，她用自己当肥皂剧明星时挣来的钱在支付建房的费用，她还透露，她在佛罗里达州拥有一套共管公寓。大约在同一时间，培尼亚·涅托也披露了他本人拥有房地产、珠宝、艺术品和其他投资等总值为330万美元的财产。他在上周说，一位新联邦审计长将审查他和他妻子在墨西哥购置的房地产。
And in December, an official at Infonavit, the housing agency run by Alejandro Murat, resigned after a photo of his son with a Porsche was posted on social media, setting off a furor and prompting federal inquiries. The official said the posting was a joke and the car did not belong to his family.
去年12月，亚历杭德罗·穆拉特主管的“墨西哥劳动者全国住房基金委员会”（简称“伊佛纳维特”[Infonavit]）的一位官员辞职，原因是儿子与保时捷车的照片被发到社交媒体上，引起群情激愤，促使联邦政府进行调查。该官员说，发帖是开玩笑，车子并不属于他的家庭。
These revelations added to the already widespread anger over accusations that corrupt police officers were involved in the abduction and presumed murder last year of 43 college students by a drug cartel. As demonstrations spread, Peña Nieto was reeling. His Institutional Revolutionary Party, the PRI, had ruled the country for seven decades until 2000, and he had pledged to erase its legacy of corruption when he took office more than two years ago.
这些披露助长了已经普遍存在的、针对腐败警官的愤怒情绪，人们指责警察与43名大学生去年被贩毒集团绑架有关，据推测学生已被杀害。随着示威活动的蔓延，培尼亚·涅托的政府也摇摇欲坠。他所在的革命制度党(Institutional Revolutionary Party，简称PRI)到2000年时，已统治了该国70年，他两年多前上任时曾承诺，要清除该党的腐败遗产。
José Murat, the former Oaxaca governor, has long been a PRI insider. His rise from a childhood in one of Mexico's poorest states to a position as a power broker who has the president's ear is the stuff of lore. There was a failed, and to some skeptics faked, attempt on his life; a long campaign to block a federal audit of state spending; and a record of hardball political tactics. Murat, who has also served as a federal legislator, recently raised his profile again by leading an effort by the Peña Nieto administration to build a cross-party legislative agenda.
瓦哈卡州前州长何塞·穆拉特长期以来一直属于革命制度党的内部圈子。他从墨西哥最贫穷的一个州的童年一路发迹到与总统说得上话的位置，他的许多故事已成为传说。曾有人试图刺杀他未遂，不过怀疑者认为那是假的；他为阻止联邦政府审计州政府的开支进行过长期的活动；他有政治手段果敢的记载。穆拉特还曾担任过联邦立法者，最近，他的姿态又有所上升，他在领导着培尼亚·涅托政府建立一个跨党派立法议程的努力。
Murat's 39-year-old son, Alejandro, by contrast understated and polished, worked for Peña Nieto in state government before being appointed to the federal housing post. In some ways, the father and son represent the new and the old of the PRI, said Edward L. Gibson, a Northwestern University professor who studied Oaxaca for a book on authoritarian governments.
穆拉特39岁的儿子亚历杭德罗相比之下则更低调、更精炼，他曾在佩尼亚·涅托手下在州政府工作，后被任命为联邦住房主管。美国西北大学的教授爱德华·L·吉布森(Edward L. Gibson)说，从某些方面来看，穆拉特父子代表着革命制度党中老的和新的一面，吉布森在一本有关专制政府的书中研究过瓦哈卡。
“Peña Nieto may be the new face of the PRI,” Gibson said, “but the dinosaurs are still part of the coalition.”
“培尼亚·涅托也许是革命制度党的新鲜血液，”吉布森说，“但那些老家伙们仍是该党的组成部分。”
José and Alejandro Murat denied ownership of several residences around the country that The Times traced to them.
何塞和亚历杭德罗·穆拉特都否认，时报在美国各地发现的、与他们有关的房地产归他们所有。
José Murat said the Time Warner condo was owned by a relative. Alejandro Murat said the Florida condo was owned by his mother-in-law. Another Manhattan condo, which records show was originally purchased in the name of Alejandro's wife, belongs to an uncle, he said.
何塞·穆拉特说，时代华纳公寓的产权归一个亲戚所有。亚历杭德罗·穆拉特说，佛罗里达州的公寓由自己的岳母拥有。他说，另一套位于曼哈顿的公寓属于一个叔叔，记录显示该公寓最初是以亚历杭德罗妻子的名义买下的。
In an email, José Murat said the only U.S. properties owned by his immediate family were the two condos in Park City, Utah. They were purchased in 2004 — one by his two sons and the other by his two daughters — for a total of $690,000. At least one of the Murat children was a teenager at the time. But Murat said: “I do not personally own any real estate directly or indirectly in the United States.”
何塞·穆拉特在一封电子邮件中说，他的直系亲属在美国只拥有犹他州帕克城(Park City)的两套公寓。公寓是2004年购买的，一套是他的两个儿子买的，另一套是他的两个女儿买的，共花了69万美元。当时，穆拉特的子女中至少有一个只有十几岁。但穆拉特说：“我本人不直接或间接拥有任何美国的房地产。”
The Murat properties show how the legal mechanisms available in the United States to hold property without disclosing the actual owner's name can make tracing money difficult. This can be a particular problem for Mexico, which, like many developing nations, has long experienced the flight of both legitimate and illicit capital.
穆拉特家的财产显示，允许持有财产但无需透露实际持有人姓名的美国法律机制，让追溯资金变得很困难。这对墨西哥来说，尤其是个问题，墨西哥与许多发展中国家一样，长期以来存在着合法资本及非法资本外逃的情况。