ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Seven years ago, Benazir Bhutto returned to Pakistan after a decade in exile to a boisterous welcome from hundreds of thousands of her followers. Over the weekend, Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, 26, tried to reclaim the legacy of his mother with a huge rally in the southern port city of Karachi.
巴基斯坦伊斯兰堡——七年前，贝娜齐尔·布托(Benazir Bhutto)结束十年的流亡，回到巴基斯坦，受到了数十万追随者的热烈欢迎。刚刚过去的周末，26岁的比拉瓦尔·布托·扎尔达里(Bilawal Bhutto Zardari)尝试通过南部港口城市卡拉奇的一场盛大集会，继承他母亲的影响力。
Thousands of party loyalists dressed in party colors of red, black and green gathered on the vast lawns in front of the mausoleum of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the country’s founding leader, dancing to party anthems and chanting slogans of support for the young party leader.
数万名忠于他所在党派的支持者身着代表该党的红色、黑色和绿色服装，聚集在巴基斯坦国父穆罕默德·阿里·真纳(Muhammad Ali Jinnah)陵墓前广阔的草地上，随着该党的歌曲起舞，并反复呼喊支持这名年轻政党领袖的口号。
The rally was an attempt by the Oxford-educated Mr. Bhutto Zardari to capture the popular imagination and revive the sagging fortunes of his political party, the Pakistan Peoples Party, which was battered in the 2013 general elections after completing a five-year term in power, tainted by allegations of corruption and ineptitude. The party has been swept from the national stage and now wields power only on the provincial level, and in just one province, Sindh, where the party has had its power base for decades.
曾就读于牛津大学的布托·扎尔达里希望通过这次集会激起民众的兴趣，重振他所领导的巴基斯坦人民党(Pakistan Peoples Party)。在2013年的大选中，结束了五年一届执政任期的该党，深受腐败和无能指控的困扰，遭遇重创。自那以后，人民党被从全国舞台上赶了下去，现在只在省一级，且仅在信德省这一个地方掌权。数十年来，那里一直是该党的权力基础。
Mr. Bhutto Zardari has a tough task in rebuilding his party. Highlighting the challenge was a poor showing in a by-election in the central city of Multan last week in which the P.P.P.’s candidate came in third, drawing only a few thousand votes. The winner of the election was an independent candidate supported by the opposition politician Imran Khan, a charismatic former cricket player.
布托·扎尔达里重建人民党的任务颇为艰巨。让这一挑战突显出来的是，上周，在中部城市木尔坦举行的补缺选举中，该党表现糟糕，候选人只得到了区区几千张选票，仅名列第三。选举的获胜者，是颇具魅力的反对派政界人士、前板球明星伊姆兰·汗(Imran Khan)支持的一名独立候选人。
Mr. Khan, who has since mid-August been one of the leaders of a protest in the capital, Islamabad, against the government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, is fast gaining momentum as a challenger to Mr. Sharif. He has been drawing huge crowds in rallies across the country, especially in Punjab, the most populous and prosperous province, which determines the political future of any political party here.
从8月中旬开始，伊姆兰·汗一直在首都伊斯兰堡，参与领导反对纳瓦兹·谢里夫(Nawaz Sharif)政府的抗议活动。作为谢里夫总理的挑战者，伊姆兰·汗势头猛增。在全国各地，尤其是人口最多、最富裕的旁遮普省，他能吸引到大规模的人群参加集会。旁遮普省决定着所有本土政党的政治未来。
Mr. Khan is calling for fresh elections, claiming that Mr. Sharif came to power after a rigged electoral process, and tapping into a widespread feeling of discontent with the government.
伊姆兰·汗要求重新举行选举，不仅宣称谢里夫是因为选举程序遭到操纵方才上台的，还在利用民众对政府的普遍不满。
Inflation, power failures and allegations of nepotism and corruption against the Sharif family — forcefully articulated by Mr. Khan — seem to have struck a chord with the public in recent months.
最近几个月，通货膨胀、断电以及针对谢里夫家族的裙带和腐败指控——伊姆兰·汗有力地提出了相关指控——似乎引起了民众的共鸣。
Mr. Khan’s rallies have been drawing growing numbers of young men and women, mainly from the middle and upper classes, attracted by his calls for change.
伊姆兰·汗领导的集会吸引了越来越多的年轻男女。主要来自中上层阶级的他们，被他的变革呼声所吸引。
The rally in Karachi on Saturday signaled a new effort by Mr. Bhutto Zardari to project himself back on to the political stage and present himself as a future leader of Pakistan, as well as casting himself as the real representative of the country’s youth.
卡拉奇周六的集会表明，布托·扎尔达里做出了新的努力，希望能重回政治舞台，把自己塑造成巴基斯坦未来的领导人，并显示出他是巴基斯坦年轻人的真正代表。
He appeared to be trying to reincarnate the spirits of his grandfather, Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, and Ms. Bhutto — both charismatic figures who served as prime ministers.
他似乎想表明，自己是外公佐勒菲卡尔·阿里·布托(Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto)和贝娜齐尔·布托的灵魂转世——这两个充满魅力的人物生前均曾担任巴基斯坦总理。
“I am Bhutto,” he said when he took to the stage on Saturday.
周六，他站上讲台时宣布，“我就是布托。”
Mr. Bhutto Zardari bears a striking resemblance to both his grandfather and mother and clearly emulates their oratorical styles in his speeches. His grandfather was executed in 1979 by the military government in power at the time; his mother was assassinated in 2007 after her triumphant return home.
布托·扎尔达里的长相与外公和母亲非常相似，而且他还在讲话中刻意模仿二人的演讲风格。1979年，他的外公被当时掌权的军政府处决；2007年，她的母亲在成功回国后遭到暗杀。
The rally in Karachi attracted at least 100,000 people, mostly from rural areas of Sindh, with some 22,500 police officers providing security, according to a police statement. A public holiday was declared in the city.
警方声明称，卡拉奇的集会吸引了至少10万人，其中大多来自信德省的农村地区，另有2.25万名警察在维持秩序。卡拉奇宣布当天为公众假日。
However, fewer people turned up than the organizers had hoped for, especially from the urban population of Karachi. And many people started leaving in the middle of Mr. Bhutto Zardari’s speech, analysts in the crowd said.
不过，来到现场的人比组织者预计的要少，尤其是卡拉奇的城市人口。出席了集会的分析人士称，在布托·扎尔达里讲到一半时，许多人开始离去。
In his speech, Mr. Bhutto Zardari accused his political opponents of using allegations of corruption to sink his party. “Slogans about corruption are an excuse to stop us from serving you,” he said.
在演讲中，布托·扎尔达里指责他的政治对手利用贪污指控来打击他的党派。他说，“关于腐败的说辞只是用来阻止我们服务于你们的借口。”
Political analysts seemed unimpressed with Mr. Bhutto Zardari’s efforts to project himself as a leader and his oft-repeated contention that “only Bhutto-ism can save Pakistan.”
布托·扎尔达里为了把自己塑造为领导人所做的努力，以及他一再重复的“只有布托主义才能救巴基斯坦”的提法，似乎并没有给政治分析人士留下深刻印象。
The speech was “rhetoric steeped in the past”, said Cyril Almeida, an editor at Dawn, the country’s leading English-language daily.
巴基斯坦的著名英文日报《黎明报》(Dawn)的编辑西里尔·阿尔梅达(Cyril Almeida)说，他的演讲“仍停留在过去”。