SEATTLE — The Washington of Jeffrey P. Bezos has been the one of disruptive technology, fleece jackets and software engineers. He has shown little interest in the Washington of politics, power suits and Woodward and Bernstein.
西雅图——华盛顿的杰夫·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)一直属于那个致力于颠覆性技术，穿着羊毛夹克的软件工程师阶层。他对华盛顿的政治、彰显地位的套装、伍德沃德(Woodward)及伯恩斯坦(Bernstein)不感兴趣。
Yet now, from his tech frontier in Seattle, Mr. Bezos has bridged those far-flung worlds by buying The Washington Post.
然而现在，通过购买《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)，贝佐斯在西雅图的技术前线将这些风马牛不相及的领域联系在了一起。
The purchase price of $250 million is a pittance for a man who ranked 19th on Forbes magazine’s list of billionaires, with an estimated fortune of more than $25 billion. But the deal was still an astonishing move for a magnate who has kept a low profile in politics and has said almost nothing about his interest in newspapers, except that he reads them.
他在福布斯(Forbes)杂志亿万富翁排行榜排名第19，估计拥有超过250亿美元的财富，对他来说，购买该报所花费的2.5亿美元（约合15.3亿元人民币）只是一个小数目。然而，贝佐斯向来在政治上保持低调，除了读报以外，几乎不曾对报纸表示任何兴趣，以他而言，此次交易是一个令人震惊的举动。
Nonetheless, Mr. Bezos will now have a microphone as powerful as anyone in Washington and outside the West Wing. Keeping with a lot of his tech industry peers, he brings with him a sort of libertarian bent, having supported gay marriage in the state of Washington and fought higher income taxes on wealthy people.
尽管如此，贝佐斯如今将会拥有一个强力的麦克风，不输给华盛顿及白宫西配楼（West Wing，美国总统办公区域——译注）之外的任何一个麦克风。跟许多技术产业同行一样，他保持着某种程度的自由意志主义倾向，支持华盛顿州的同性婚姻，并反对对富人征收更高的所得税。
“Of the businesspeople I know, he and Bill Gates are the two most intellectually curious people I know,” said Rob Glaser, the founder of another Seattle technology company, RealNetworks, who has known Mr. Bezos since the 1990s. “It doesn’t surprise me that Jeff would find something with the intellectual depth of The Post an intriguing, compelling thing to be involved with.”
“在我所认识的商业人士中间，他和比尔·盖茨(Bill Gates)是最有求知欲的两个人，”西雅图科技公司RealNetworks创始人罗布·格拉泽(Rob Glaser)说。“杰夫发现《华盛顿邮报》具有思想深度，并且觉得参与其中是一件引人入胜的有趣事情，我不会对此感到震惊。”格拉泽在20世纪90年代就认识了贝佐斯。
Mr. Bezos, 49, said in a statement on Monday that he would leave the day-to-day operations at The Washington Post to others. But his history — rising quickly as a Wall Street whiz, then starting Amazon.com out of a garage and building it into a retailing giant — is chock-full of cold calculations to improve his company’s fortunes. Many of his decisions have panned out, as Amazon has muscled its way into nearly every corner of retailing, leaving many competitors chafed its his wake.
49岁的贝佐斯在周一发表声明称，他会将《华盛顿邮报》的日常运作交给其他的人。但他的创业历程——迅速成长为华尔街奇才，然后在一个车库内开创亚马逊网站(Amazon.com)，并将其打造为零售业巨头——充满了冷静的盘算，目的是增加公司的财富。他的很多决定都见到了成效，而亚马逊也几乎闯进了零售业的每一个领域，激怒了很多竞争对手。
The purchase of The Washington Post fits into one of the more eclectic — some might say, eccentric — patterns of investing and charitable giving of today’s billionaires. On top of the usual ream of stakes in technology start-ups like Uber and Twitter, Mr. Bezos has indulged his passion for space by financing the recovery from the seabed of an Apollo rocket that carried the first men to the moon.
收购《华盛顿邮报》符合如今的亿万富翁进行投资及慈善捐助的那种比较不拘一格的——一些人可能会说是古怪的——模式。除了按惯例在Uber及Twitter等科技初创公司持有大量股份外，贝佐斯还尽情满足了自己对太空的热爱，投资赞助了从海底捞回首次载人登月的阿波罗(Apollo)火箭的行动。
He is paying for creation of a clock buried in a mountain in West Texas that will tick once a year for the next 10,000 years.
他还打算出钱建造一个时钟，并将它埋在西德克萨斯的一座山底下，在未来一万年里，这个时钟每年都会走一次。
And now, Mr. Bezos — a man known for being an unsentimental businessman — has invested squarely in a sentimental business steeped in tradition. Of course, The Washington Post deal could feed his demonstrated appetite for reinventing venerable industries, from retailing to book publishing. Amazon’s Kindle business has turned Mr. Bezos from a merchant into a media mogul, as celebrated in some circles as another digital disrupter, Steven P. Jobs, Apple’s former chief executive.
贝佐斯是出了名的不动感情的商人，目前却恰恰投资了一项饱含传统的情绪化事业。当然，收购《华盛顿邮报》能够满足他表露过的一种欲望，即彻底改造一些拥有悠久历史的行业，从零售业到书籍出版业。亚马逊的Kindle业务促使贝佐斯从一个商人转变为一个媒体大亨。在某些圈子里面，人们把贝佐斯奉为和前苹果(Apple)首席执行官史蒂文·P·乔布斯(Steven P. Jobs)一样的数字破坏者。
He has provided few clues about what changes might be in store. In an interview last year, though, he stated that he did not think people reading the Web would pay for a newspaper subscription because they were too trained to get it free. The Washington Post started an online subscription plan this year.
贝佐斯没有说明，他打算实施哪些变革。但他曾在去年的一次采访中表示，他认为浏览报纸网站的读者不会付钱订购报纸，因为他们拥有很好的技巧，能够免费阅读报纸。《华盛顿邮报》在今年启动了在线订阅计划。
He said in the same interview that there would be no printed newspapers in 20 years. The Washington Post had more than 457,000 subscribers to its daily edition in the first quarter of this year.
他还在同一次采访中表示，20年后将不会存在纸质报纸。而今年第一季度，《华盛顿邮报》每日版的订阅用户超过45.7万。
As Amazon has grown, so too has the volume of criticism of the company. It controls at least a quarter of the book business, more than any company in the past. Critics say that concentration is unhealthy.
发展过程之中，亚马逊受到了越来越多的指责。该公司控制着至少四分之一的图书业务，比以往任何公司都多。批评人士称，这种程度的集中不健康。
Critics of Amazon were aghast at the news of The Washington Post purchase, saying it would further increase the power of a company and a tycoon they think already has too much of it. Although Mr. Bezos and not Amazon bought The Post, rivals and critics were already concerned that the newspaper’s work would be used to help Amazon.
批评亚马逊的人士对贝佐斯购买《华盛顿邮报》的消息大为震惊，称此举将进一步增大该公司的权势，而他们认为这家巨头本来就已经权势过大。尽管购买《华盛顿邮报》的是贝佐斯而非亚马逊，但竞争对手和批评人士已经开始担心，该报纸的工作会被用来帮助亚马逊。
Mr. Bezos was a tinkerer from an early age. After Princeton, he went to Wall Street, ending up at D. E. Shaw & Company, a hedge fund.
从早年开始，贝佐斯就是一个擅长收拾残局的人。从普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)毕业后，他去了华尔街，最后任职的公司是对冲基金德劭集团(D. E. Shaw & Company)。
He began Amazon when he took note of two things: how fast the Internet was growing as it became a consumer medium in the early 1990s, and how well-suited the book business was to selling online. One Web site could offer all the hundreds of thousands of titles in print in a way that a land-based store never could.
他之所以创办亚马逊，是因为注意到了两件事情，一件是互联网在上世纪90年代早期成为了消费媒介，正在快速发展壮大，另一件事情是，图书十分适合在线销售。网站可以以一种实体书店永远无法使用的方式，提供数以十万计的印刷书籍。
But as Amazon grew big, Mr. Bezos himself largely shunned the media spotlight.
不过，随着亚马逊不断壮大，贝佐斯自己基本上回避了媒体的关注。
Mr. Bezos has also mostly shunned the political spotlight, as well. His political contributions have gone mostly to Amazon’s corporate PAC, which divides its campaign checks relatively evenly between Democratic and Republican candidates. The stepson of a Cuban immigrant, Mr. Bezos has stayed out of the immigration debate that has attracted so many luminaries from the technology business.
同时，贝佐斯也在很大程度上躲开了政界的关注。他的政治献金主要经由亚马逊的公司政治行动委员会（Political Action Committee，简称PAC）捐出，该委员会会把用于竞选的支票相对均匀地分给民主党和共和党候选人。作为一名古巴移民的继子，贝佐斯一直远离有关移民问题的辩论，尽管相关辩论吸引了科技行业的许多显赫人物。
Last year, Mr. Bezos and his wife made waves with a $2.5 million contribution to the successful campaign to legalize same-sex marriage in Washington State. He was one of the biggest donors in 2010 to another winning effort to defeat a proposed income tax on the wealthy in Washington State. People who know Mr. Bezos describe his political views as libertarian, with a small “l.”
去年，贝佐斯和妻子向华盛顿州争取同性婚姻合法的成功运动捐献了250万美元，此举引起了轰动。他还是2010年另一场成功运动的最大捐赠人之一，那场运动是为了阻止华盛顿州向富人征收一项所得税的提案。认识贝佐斯的人称他的政治观点倾向于自由意志主义，不过不太强烈。
On Monday, Mr. Bezos told Washington Post employees that he did not intend to leave his full-time Amazon duties, or to relocate.
周一，贝佐斯告诉《华盛顿邮报》的员工，他不打算离开亚马逊的全职工作，也不打算搬家。
“I am happily living in ‘the other Washington’ where I have a day job that I love,” he wrote.
“我对自己在‘另一个华盛顿’的生活很满意，那里有我热爱的全职工作，”他写道。