The big news in newspapers — that Jeffrey P. Bezos is buying The Washington Post — was not even 24 hours old when shock and wisecracks about the unexpected $250 million deal began to give way to acceptance and even envy.
在报纸新闻业爆出大新闻，杰弗里·P·贝佐斯(Jeffrey P. Bezos)出人意料地提出以2.5亿美元收购《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)后还不到24小时，震惊与讥讽就开始让位于认同乃至艳羡。
What, many are asking, does Mr. Bezos, the billionaire founder and chief executive of Amazon.com, see in a 135-year-old newspaper that others do not?
很多人在问，身为亚马逊公司(Amazon.com)创始人和首席执行官的亿万富翁贝佐斯，在一家有135年历史的报社上看到了什么别人看不到的价值吗？
If Mr. Bezos’s business history is any indication, don’t expect a quick answer and don’t expect any short-term fixes for The Post, which has suffered from years of sliding revenue and circulation. While terms like disrupter and innovator are often used to describe Mr. Bezos in his years at Amazon, he has also proved to be a long-term thinker, someone willing to buck Wall Street demands for big profits in order to invest in his company’s growth.
如果贝佐斯过往的经商履历对未来能起到一些指示作用的话，那么人们不应期待此问题很快有答案，也别应指望收入和发行量下滑多年的《华盛顿邮报》能在短期内得到什么改观。虽然在亚马逊的岁月让贝佐斯赢得了“破坏者”和“创新家”的头衔，事实证明他还是个目光长远的思考者，他是那种情愿顶住华尔街投资者追逐高额利润的要求，而对公司未来增长进行投资的人。
Now that he is the private owner of The Post, it would not be surprising to see him worry little about turning a quick profit and instead push to upend the often ossified world of newspaper publishing, just as he did with books more than a decade ago.
现在，既然他已经成为《华盛顿邮报》的私人业主，今后若发现他并不急于快速增加盈利，而是利用颠覆性的手段，去革新食古不化的报纸出版业，正如他十多年前革新了书籍出版业一样，那也不足为奇。
Indeed, Mr. Bezos, who declined a request for an interview, hinted in a letter to employees that he felt a “need to invent, which means we will need to experiment,” and that “there will, of course, be change at The Post over the coming years.”
拒绝了采访邀请的贝佐斯的确在致员工的信中提示说，他已觉察到“有进行创新的需要，也就是说我们得做些实验。”而且，“接下来几年里《邮报》肯定会有变化发生。”
But just what those experiments will be is anyone’s guess.
但这些实验究竟会是什么，各方猜测纷纭。
“Jeff Bezos doesn’t need The Washington Post to make money tomorrow or even in five years,” said Glenn Kelman, the founder and chief executive of Redfin, a real estate site that, like Amazon, is based in Seattle. “He’s proven that he’s able to think over a geological time scale.”
“杰夫·贝佐斯不需要《华盛顿邮报》明天就开始盈利，甚至5年内都不需要，”和亚马逊一样位于西雅图(Seattle)的房地产网站Redfin的创始人和首席执行官格伦·凯尔曼(Glenn Kelman)说。“他已证明了自己有能力以地质年代般长远的时间尺度来思考。”
In recent years, newspapers large and small have experimented with concepts aimed at capturing elusive online revenue to make up for losses in print circulation and advertising. The Post, for example, has dabbled in some experimental news products, including the creation of a social reader for Facebook and a recommendation engine called Trove.
近年来，大小报纸都尝试了各种新点子，以求捕捉飘忽不定的网络在线收入，从而弥补报刊发行和广告业务的亏损。以《华盛顿邮报》为例，它蜻蜓点水般地推出了一些实验性的新闻产品，包括建立了基于Facebook平台的社交阅读器(social reader)和个性化推荐引擎Trove.
Other news organizations have toyed with various strategies, most with limited success. The Daily, an iPad-only news app developed by News Corporation, shuttered after less than two years. The Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times, The New York Times and The Post have adopted various pay models for digital readers. The Guardian started a United States-based operation in 2011 to experiment with a digitally focused newsroom.
其他新闻企业也尝试了多种策略，但大多只获得有限的成功。新闻集团(News Corporation)专为iPad所创的新闻应用“The Daily”运行不足两年即告关停。《华尔街时报》(The Wall Street Journal)、《金融时报》(The Financial Times)、《纽约时报》(New York Times)和《华盛顿邮报》均曾针对在线读者采用各种支付模式。2011年，《卫报》(The Guardian)也做出尝试，在美国开办了一个数字化新闻媒体。
All of these companies have created mobile apps and made significant investments in online video, where advertising revenue is expected to grow, but no paper has cracked the code on how to replace steep declines in print advertising. Other traditional print magazines, like The New Yorker and Vogue, have digitized and sold portions of their archives.
上述报业公司都曾推出移动应用，并重金投入有望带来广告收入增长的在线视频业务。但是没有一家报纸解决了如何弥补印刷版广告收入锐减的难题。另外，传统的印刷杂志如《纽约客》(The New Yorker)和Vogue也进行了数字化，并出售了部分过刊资料。
They have also dabbled with new ways to make money through Amazon, particularly through the Kindle Singles, which are shorter e-books. Amazon’s biggest influence has been disrupting the economics of newspapers through millions of its Kindle mobile devices.
为了赚钱，这些企业也曾通过亚马逊涉足新领域，特别是Kindle Singles短篇电子书这种形式。亚马逊所发挥的最大影响就在于，通过数以百万计的Kindle移动阅读器彻底改变了报刊业的经济格局。
Mr. Bezos said The Post would be run separately from Amazon, but there is little doubt that he will bring what he has learned over the years to the newspaper world.
贝佐斯称，《华盛顿邮报》将和亚马逊分开经营，但毫无疑问，他会将这些年来在亚马逊运营上积累的经验带入报纸的世界。
“He’s done an amazing job of bringing e-books to reality,” said Matt Galligan, the co-founder of the mobile news start-up Circa. “There’s a strong likelihood that a similar transition could happen at The Post.”
“让电子书成为现实，贝佐斯成就斐然，”移动新闻类初创企业Circa的合伙创办人马特·加利根(Matt Galligan)说。“类似的变革在《华盛顿邮报》上演的可能性很大。”
Though Mr. Bezos demurely noted in his letter that he had no history in newspapers, that he is an outsider not steeped in the old ways of newspaper management has excited some.
尽管贝佐斯在前述致员工信中谦虚地指出自己并无报刊从业经验，但作为一名未曾浸淫于报刊管理旧方式的门外汉，这样的身份足以让一些人感到激动。
“Washington Post to be sold to Jeff Bezos?! I’d actually return to the journalism world if I could work for him,” wrote Adrian Holovaty on Twitter after the news broke.
 “《华盛顿邮报》要卖给杰夫·贝佐斯了？！要是能在他手下工作，我真愿意回归报业老本行，”收购消息传开后，阿德里安·霍洛瓦蒂(Adrian Holovaty)在Twitter上写道。
Six years ago, Mr. Holovaty held the title “editor for editorial innovation” at The Post, but left in 2007. The co-creator of the popular Web framework Django, he thinks Mr. Bezos will bring “fresh, baggage-less thinking.”
6年前，霍洛瓦蒂在《华盛顿邮报》身居“创新编辑”(editor for editorial innovation)一职，但他在2007年离去。作为广受欢迎的网页编程架构系统Django的创始者之一，他认为贝佐斯将带来“新鲜、不受拘束的思想。”
No baggage — and deep pockets — means room to try new things. Might Mr. Bezos apply tech industry concepts like frictionless payments, e-commerce integration, recommendation engines, data analytics or improved concepts for mobile reading?
不受拘束——同时资金充足——意味着有尝试新事物的余地。贝佐斯是否会将科技业的观念，诸如无障碍支付、电商集成、推荐引擎、数据分析，甚至移动阅读领域的最新概念，带入这一行业呢？
One of the biggest challenges for any company trying to sell goods on the Web, whether it is a crop-top shirt or a news subscription, is “creating relevance,” said Deena Varshavskaya, the founder and chief executive of Wanelo, a stylish e-commerce site popular among young women.
对那些试图做网上营销的企业而言，无论是出售露腰T恤衫还是新闻订阅服务，最大的挑战之一都是“营造与消费者的关联点”, 迪娜·瓦尔沙夫斯卡娅(Deena Varshavskaya)说。她是受年轻女性群体欢迎的时尚电商网站Wanelo的创始人和首席执行官。
That is an area where Mr. Bezos might be primed to flex his expertise in analyzing data to find ways to engage a younger audience. In addition, Mr. Bezos’s money could come in handy when it comes to adding to the newspaper developers, engineers, designers and others who could radically change the way the organization looks and runs.
在这一领域里，贝佐斯也许可以很好地发挥他在数据分析上的专长，寻求向更年轻的读者群拓展业务的渠道。此外，贝佐斯有充裕的资金可为公司招揽软件开发人员、工程师、设计师及其他人才，他们可能让《华盛顿邮报》的公司面貌和运营方式发生根本改变。
The tech industry from which Bezos has emerged certainly has offered new ways to consume news. Start-ups like Flipboard, Digg, Pocket and Feedly have long been testing and building out alternative ways to read and consume information on the Web and via mobile devices. That includes experimenting with news aggregation, recommendations and clever ways to bookmark interesting articles to read later.
让贝佐斯得以发家致富的科技行业自然也提供了消费新闻产品的新途径。诸如Flipboard, Digg, Pocket和Feedly这样的创业公司长期以来都在探索并构建通过网页或移动设备阅读、消费信息的新手段。这包括新闻收集、推荐方面的尝试，还有用机敏的方式添加书签以便用户稍后阅读。
James M. Brady, who was the executive editor of The Post’s Web site from 2004 to 2008, said that traditional news outlets had struggled to build and experiment with the digital arms of their organizations while retaining the values that built the company.
曾于2004到2008年间任《华盛顿邮报》网站执行主编的詹姆斯·M·布拉迪(James M. Brady)称，一直以来，传统的新闻产业很难在保留那些曾使它们获得成功的价值元素的同时，建设其数字化部门并进行实验。
“We all tried to do it on the news side, but when you’re dealing with declining revenues and still trying to put out a daily news product, there’s not much money left for the developer side,” he said. “We should have done it anyway, but at the time we were trying to preserve the core product, the daily newspaper.”
“我们都曾在新闻领域努力尝试，但当你面对日渐萎缩的收入，还得努力做出一份每日出版的新闻产品，留给研发部门的经费就所剩无几了，”他说。“本来我们应该义无反顾地支持研发的，但当时，我们却在尽力保护核心产品：每日发行的报纸。”
In other words, the new ownership is an opportunity for a tech-oriented reboot.
也就是说，新老板将带来一个朝着科技领域前进的重新开始的机遇。
Mr. Kelman said that the steady flow of new ideas and the consumer reach of sites like Yahoo, Google, Facebook and Twitter meant that tech had a lot to say about the future of The Post and other newspapers. That a tech mogul is now also a newspaper mogul shouldn’t be a shock.
凯尔曼说，雅虎(Yahoo)、谷歌(Google)、Facebook和Twitter等网站持续带来创新思想，并拥有强大的消费者覆盖力，这意味着，科技业对《华盛顿邮报》和其他报刊的未来拥有很大的发言权。因此，科技巨头成为报业巨头一事不应算是奇闻。
“It used to be that in Silicon Valley we just built the platforms and someone else wrote the content,” Mr. Kelman said. “But that is changing. The lines have been blurred for a long time and this is just another step in that process.”
“过去在硅谷，我们一向是自己构建技术框架，让别人来撰写内容，”凯尔曼说。“但事情正在变化。长期以来，相关界线一直在淡化，而贝佐斯的收购只是此番进程中的又一个脚印。”