ROME — Having spent months manufacturing procedural delays or conjuring political melodrama in hopes of saving himself, Silvio Berlusconi on Wednesday could no longer stave off the inevitable: Italy’s Senate resoundingly stripped him of his parliamentary seat, a dramatic and humiliating expulsion, even as other potential troubles await him.
罗马——西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)用了好几个月的时间来制造程序上的拖延，或是变魔术般地制造耸人听闻的政治事件，希望挽救自己，但周三，他已经无法继续延缓不可避免的结局：意大利参议院高调取消了他的议席，这样的戏剧性驱逐令他颜面尽失，与此同时，还有一些潜在的麻烦在等着他。
In the hours before the vote, Italian senators read speeches for or against Mr. Berlusconi, the powerful former prime minister. Mr. Berlusconi responded with an outdoor rally in central Rome, transforming the day into a televised, split-screen standoff: On one side was the former prime minister, declaring himself a victim of persecution and pledging to remain a political force; on the other was the Senate, with a majority of rival politicians, who finished their speeches and lowered the boom.
投票前的几个小时里，意大利参议员发表了支持或反对势力强大的意大利前总理贝卢斯科尼的演讲。作为回应，贝卢斯科尼在罗马市中心举行了一场室外集会，把这一天变成了一场让电视屏幕一分为二的直播对峙：一边是声称自己受到迫害并发誓要维系政治影响力的前总理；另一边是参议院，大部分参议员都是与其对立的政客，他们已经结束演讲，偃旗息鼓。
His expulsion was confirmed through a series of votes, and after a day of passionate arguments, the reaction in the chamber was striking after the final tally: silence.
一天的激烈争论之后，参议院经由一系列投票通过了取消其议员资格的决议。结束了最终的计票之后，参议院的反应引人注目：沉默。
“I think we are at a crossroads today,” Senator Gianfranco Casini said during the speeches before the vote. “However it goes, a 20-year period is concluded.”
“我觉得，我们现在处在一个十字路口，”参议员詹弗兰科·卡西尼(Gianfranco Casini)在投票前的讲话中说，“不管怎样，长达20年的一个阶段结束了。”
Mr. Berlusconi, 77, is now staring at a cascade of stubborn realities. His removal from the Senate means that he is without elective office for the first time in roughly two decades and that he has lost the special immunities awarded to lawmakers. With other legal cases underway against him — and the possibility that new litigation will be filed — Mr. Berlusconi is now far more vulnerable than he was when, as prime minister, he seemed virtually untouchable, swatting away sex and corruption scandals.
77岁的贝卢斯科尼正在目瞪口呆地看着一系列严峻的现实。被逐出参议院的事实意味着，他在大约20年的时间里首次失去了民选职位，失去了议员享有的特殊豁免权。鉴于其他一些针对他的法律诉讼正在进行，可能还会有人提起新的诉讼，如今的贝卢斯科尼远比他当总理时不堪一击。那时的他看上去几乎坚不可摧，一举驱散了性丑闻和腐败丑闻。
He is also expected to soon start performing community service for the tax fraud conviction that forms the basis for his removal from the Senate. Moreover, a court in Milan has ruled that Mr. Berlusconi cannot seek any public office for the next two years. For a man who once dominated Italy with a ribald swagger, Mr. Berlusconi is suddenly a sharply reduced figure, having recently watched several of his longtime lieutenants break away from him.
同时，他预计很快就得开始进行社区服务，原因是税务欺诈罪名成立，这也是导致他被取消参议员资格的原因。此外，米兰一家法院已作出裁决，规定贝卢斯科尼未来两年内不得谋求公职。贝卢斯科尼曾用粗俗的招摇姿态主宰意大利，如今却突然形象扫地。不久之前，他眼看着几名相随多年的助手弃他而去。
Determined to show his political viability, Mr. Berlusconi bused in supporters from around Italy for the rally outside his palace in central Rome. They waved flags, braved the November cold and sang songs hailing their leader.
决意展示自身政治生存能力的贝卢斯科尼用公交车接来了意大利各地的支持者，让他们在自己位于罗马市中心的豪宅外举行集会。他们挥舞着旗帜，对抗着11月的寒冷，唱着颂扬自己领袖的歌曲。
“It’s just unfair that they would condemn him when Parliament is full of people who are way worse than him, who have avoided taxes, stolen public money and worked against the people,” said Alessandra Abbate, 49, a supporter from Bologna. “This country would be nothing without him.”
“议会里满是比他坏得多的人，满是逃税、盗窃公款和与民众做对的人，他们对他的谴责确实算不上公平，”49岁的的支持者亚历山德拉·阿巴特(Alessandra Abbate)说，“如果没有他，这个国家什么都不是。”阿巴特来自博洛尼亚。
Mr. Berlusconi appeared at 4:35 p.m., before the Senate voted, and stood on a cheery sky-blue stage erected for the occasion. He repeated his familiar complaints against Italy’s judiciary, blaming reckless magistrates for his legal problems.
参议院表决前，贝卢斯科尼于下午4点35分现身，站上了为集会搭建的色调明快的天蓝色讲台。他重申了他对意大利司法体制那些人们耳熟能详的指责，说自己的法律问题全是出自地方法官的蛮横做法。
“It is a bitter day, a day of mourning for democracy,” Mr. Berlusconi told the crowd, adding that other leaders, including Beppe Grillo, the former comedian and head of the antigovernment Five Star Movement, were powerful figures in politics, despite not holding office.
“这是悲惨的一天，是民主的哀悼日，”贝卢斯科尼对人群说。他还说，包括贝佩·格里洛(Beppe Grillo)在内的其他一些领袖尽管没有任职，却是政坛上的强权人物。格里洛曾当过喜剧演员，是反政府政党“五星运动”(Five Star Movement)的党首。
“We are here, will be here and will stay here,” Mr. Berlusconi vowed. “Let’s not despair if the leader of the center-right is no longer a senator.”
贝卢斯科尼信誓旦旦地说，“我们现在在这里，将来也会在这里，而且会坚守阵地。就算中右翼领袖不再是参议员，我们也用不着绝望。”
Mr. Berlusconi, a billionaire media mogul, dominated Italy’s powerful center-right political movement for two decades until recent weeks, when his support splintered. Last month, he forced a confidence vote against the coalition government — hoping he could force new elections and, perhaps, revive himself politically. But several of his key allies rebelled, forcing Mr. Berlusconi to reverse himself and support the government.
贝卢斯科尼是一名身家亿万的媒体大亨，过去20年里，他一直统领着意大利强大的中右翼政党。直到最近几周，他拥有的支持才告土崩瓦解。上个月，他强行发起了针对联盟政府的信任表决，希望迫使当局举行新选举，也许还希望恢复自己的政治地位。然而，他的几名核心盟友背叛了他，逼迫贝卢斯科尼扭转立场支持政府。
Mr. Berlusconi then announced that he would rebrand his People of Liberty Party as Forza Italia, the name of the party he used at the beginning of his political career in the 1990s. Instead, a group of center-right lawmakers, led by Angelino Alfano, his longtime protégé, broke away, forming a parliamentary faction that would continue to support the coalition government.
之后，贝卢斯科尼宣布，他将把自己领导的自由人民党(People of Liberty)重新更名为“意大利力量党”(Forza Italia)，后者是他在20世纪90年代开始政治生涯时对该党的命名。然而，由他的长期门生安杰利诺·阿尔法诺(Angelino Alfano)领导的一群中右翼议员突然脱党，组建了一个继续支持联盟政府的议会派别。
On Wednesday, Mr. Berlusconi announced that Forza Italia would withdraw its previous support for the coalition government, which is an awkward partnership of parties from the political left and right. Even as this move narrowed the government’s majority, many analysts said it would strengthen Prime Minister Enrico Letta. Mr. Letta has at times struggled to reconcile the contradictions in the coalition, especially in recent months as Mr. Berlusconi sought to destabilize or even bring down the government.
周三，贝卢斯科尼宣布，意大利力量党会撤销此前对联盟政府的支持，后者是左翼和右翼政党结成的一个尴尬的合作团体。许多分析人士说，此举虽然会削弱政府的多数地位，却也会增强总理恩里克·莱塔(Enrico Letta)的力量。莱塔不时为调和联盟政府内部矛盾而疲于奔命，这一点在近几个月尤为明显，因为贝卢斯科尼一直在尝试破坏以至推翻联盟政府。
Mr. Berlusconi’s enemies have long blamed him for debasing Italy’s political culture and have accused him of using politics as a tool to advance his business interests and increase his vast fortune.
长期以来，贝卢斯科尼的政敌一直指责他矮化了意大利的政治文化，还指责他把政治用作提升个人商业利益和增加个人巨大财富的一件工具。
Paola Taverna, a senator with the Five Star Movement, blamed him for passing laws that benefited his own interests without ever pushing through the structural changes needed to reform Italy’s economy and political system.
来自“五星运动”的参议员保拉·塔韦尔纳(Paola Taverna)指责贝卢斯科尼通过了一些于己有利的法律，却从未促成改革意大利经济和政治体制所需的结构性变革。
Speaking to Mr. Berlusconi as if he were in the chamber, Ms. Taverna called him a “a habitual offender and a recidivist, the promoter, organizer and beneficiary of his crimes.”
提到贝卢斯科尼时，塔韦尔纳拿出了当面指责的架势。她把贝卢斯科尼称作“惯犯加累犯，自身罪行的推动者、组织者和受益者。”