Victoria and David Beckham have joined the chorus of British fashion insiders who are just saying no to Brexit, as Britain’s proposed departure from the European Union is called. The industry, after a period of silence, is becoming increasingly vocal in its support of the government’s “Remain” campaign as the deciding referendum on Thursday approaches.
维多利亚·贝克汉姆和大卫·贝克汉姆(Victoria and David Beckham)加入了英国时尚界业内人士的行列，表达对Brexit的反对。Brexit指的是英国退出欧盟的提议。该行业在一段时间的沉默之后，开始越来越公开地大声表达对政府“留欧”倡议的支持。决定性的全民公投将在周四举行。
On Tuesday, Ms. Beckham posted an “IN” logo on Instagram and a statement declaring her belief that Britain would be better off if it remained in the E.U. The post came in response to efforts by the “Leave” side to use an interview that the Spice Girls, Ms. Beckham’s former band, gave to the Spectator in 1996 in which Ms. Beckham criticized the then-new E.U. passports (among other things).
周二，贝克汉姆夫人在Instagram上发布了一个“IN”（留下）的图标，并宣称她认为英国留在欧盟更好。这个帖子是为了回应“退欧”阵营。它们力图利用贝克汉姆夫人此前所在的辣妹组合乐队(Spice Girls)在1996年接受的《旁观者》周刊(Spectator)的采访。贝克汉姆夫人在采访中批评了当时新的欧盟护照（以及其他一些事情）。
The “Leave” side quoted her as saying Europe was destroying Britain’s national identity, and captioned it, “Should’ve listened to the missus, David.” It referred to a “Remain’’ post earlier in the day by her husband, who has a deal with Global Brands to introduce his own men’s wear line.
“退欧”阵营引用她的话说，欧洲在破坏英国的民族身份，并配宣传语：“你本该听太太的话，大卫。”这个宣传语指的是贝克汉姆当天早些时候发布的一个“留欧”帖子。贝克汉姆已与Global Brands达成协议，将推出他自己的男装系列。
Clearly Ms. Beckham’s position has changed in the last 20 years (maybe growing up, starting a family and opening a global business has something to do with it). In any case, the “Leave” campaign’s tactic appears to have backfired, as it prompted the designer’s decision to declare that she would vote with the “Remain” camp and encourage her followers to join her.
显然，贝克汉姆夫人的立场在过去20年里发生了变化（也许与她的成长、组建家庭以及开办全球性公司有关）。不管怎样，“退欧”阵营的战术似乎弄巧成拙，促使这位设计师决定宣布自己将投票支持“留欧”阵营，并鼓励她的粉丝们也这么做。
The Beckhams are among the most high-profile fashion designers, along with Christopher Bailey of Burberry and Patrick Grant, to take a public stance on the vote.
贝克汉姆夫妇加入了另外一些高知名度的设计师的行列，他们都对公投公开表明了立场，包括博柏利(Burberry)的克里斯托弗·贝利(Christopher Bailey)以及帕特里克·格兰特(Patrick Grant)。
On Tuesday, a few hours after their posts, Ms. Beckham’s message had garnered 47,700 likes and 707 comments, and Mr. Beckham’s had 372,000 likes and 3,134 comments, which ranged from the supportive to those who felt the couple was too insulated by their wealth and success to understand the concerns of the “Leave” campaign.
周二，他们的帖子发布几小时后，贝克汉姆夫人的帖子已经收到4.77万个赞以及707条评论，贝克汉姆的帖子已收到37.2万个赞以及3134条评论。有些人表示支持，也有些人觉得这对夫妇完全封闭在自己的财富和成功里，不理解“退欧”阵营的担忧。