ROME — Behind the high gates of his lavish 16th-century villa in Italy’s wealthy Po Valley, Silvio Berlusconi is plotting. His People of Freedom party is currently the most popular in Italy. He just won a victory by getting rid of a disliked property tax. And yet he could be facing his political end.
罗马——在意大利富饶的波河流域，有一栋奢华的16世纪别墅。高耸的大门背后，西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)正在暗中谋划。他所在的自由人民党(People of Freedom)目前是意大利最受欢迎的政党；他还刚刚赢得了一场胜利，废除了一项不讨人喜欢的不动产税。即便如此，他还是可能面临自己政治生涯的终结。
Mr. Berlusconi, 76, the polarizing former prime minister and billionaire media mogul, has dominated Italian politics for two decades, even as he maneuvered past sex scandals and corruption trials. Then, in July, he ran out of maneuvering room: Italy’s highest court upheld a prison term against him for tax fraud. On Monday, a parliamentary commission will debate whether to strip him of his Senate seat.
现年76岁的贝卢斯科尼是位让人非爱即恨的前总理，同时也是亿万富翁和传媒巨头。他纵横意大利政坛20载，在此期间施展手腕在多桩性丑闻及腐败案中过关。但今年7月，他的手腕没了用武之地：意大利最高法院维持了对他税务欺诈指控的判决。议会的一个委员会还将在周一讨论，是否剥夺他的参议院席位。
And that has thrown Italian politics into a state of turmoil that threatens the survival of the country’s fragile coalition government while also posing risks to the tentative economic recovery under way in Europe. Analysts warn that political instability in Italy, the Continent’s third-biggest economy, could unsettle financial markets, further sour investor confidence and possibly stoke the angry brand of anti-austerity populism that has periodically erupted across southern Europe.
这让意大利政坛陡然陷入了混乱，受到威胁的不仅是该国脆弱的联合政府的存亡，还有欧洲当下绵软的经济复苏。意大利是欧洲大陆的第三大经济体。分析人士警告，该国的政治动荡可能会扰乱金融市场、进一步损害投资者信心，并且激起极端的反紧缩民粹主义，而这种情绪本已在欧洲南部各地周期性地有所爆发。
Italy’s postwar politics have always had an operatic flourish, with governments regularly falling, even as the rest of a bemused Europe watched from a distance. But the travails of the euro and the fitful project of European integration have changed that: just as a banking crisis in tiny Cyprus can threaten the stability of the 17-nation euro zone, so now must Brussels and Berlin be wary of any outward ripples from Italy’s political machinations.
战后的意大利政治总是呈现各种颇具戏剧性的突发事件，其政府会经常性地垮台，通常在这种时候，欧洲其余各国只会在远处旁观。然而，欧元经历的阵痛和走走停停的欧洲一体化计划已经改变了这一点：就像小国塞浦路斯的银行危机能够威胁到有17个成员国的欧元区一样，现在，布鲁塞尔和柏林不得不对意大利政坛的诡谲斗争所引发的涟漪效应感到担忧。
“It could potentially be very significant,” said Simon Tilford, chief economist at the Center for European Reform in London. “Political instability in Italy is more of a concern than in Spain, Portugal or Greece.”
位于伦敦欧洲改革中心(Center for European Reform)的首席经济学家西蒙·蒂尔福德(Simon Tilford)说，“它的影响可能会非常大。与西班牙、葡萄牙或希腊相比，意大利的政治稳定更引人关注。”
With much at stake, the question reverberating through Italy’s news media is, “What will Berlusconi do?” He has remained mostly secluded at his villa outside Milan since making an emotional appearance in Rome on Aug. 4, a few days after his conviction. Near tears and surrounded by supporters, Mr. Berlusconi said his party would continue to support the coalition government even as he furiously denounced his conviction.
在这个利益攸关的时刻，意大利新闻媒体异口同声地提出一个问题，“贝卢斯科尼会做些什么？”在被定罪几天之后，他于8月4日在罗马情绪激动地露了一面，自那以后，他在大部分时间里都与世隔绝地待在米兰郊外的别墅里。当时，被支持者包围的贝卢斯科尼几乎流泪，他说，他的政党将继续支持联盟政府，他同时也愤怒地谴责了对自己的判决。
But that pledge is now on the table, as the parliamentary commission prepares to consider his expulsion from the Senate. Under a 2012 law, anyone convicted of a crime carrying at least a two-year sentence must be barred from public office for several years. Mr. Berlusconi would also lose certain legal protections afforded to lawmakers — a significant blow, given his regular brushes with corruption accusations and contentious history with the country’s magistrates.
不过，由于议会委员会准备考虑把他驱逐出参议院，他的保证现在被摆到了台面上进行讨论。根据2012年的一项法律，任何被判至少两年有期徒刑的公民都必须被禁止在接下来的几年里担任公职。贝卢斯科尼还将失去法律给予议员的特定保护，鉴于他常常身陷腐败指控，并且多次在地方法院遭到起诉，这对他是一个严重打击。
“Once he is not a member of Parliament, any prosecutor can arrest him for any reason,” said Lucio Malan, a senator with Mr. Berlusconi’s party, who said he believed that many magistrates were colluding with left-leaning political parties against the former prime minister.
和贝卢斯科尼来自同一政党的参议员卢乔·马兰(Lucio Malan)说，“一旦他不是议员，任何检察官都能随便找个理由逮捕他。”他说自己认为，许多地方法官正在和偏左翼的政党合谋，来对付这位前总理。
Mr. Malan and other supporters say the 2012 law should not be applied, given that the tax case originated several years earlier. And other Berlusconi loyalists have bluntly warned that stripping him of his Senate seat could amount to political war: he might withdraw his party’s support for the coalition and bring down the government.
马兰和其他支持者说，不应动用2012年的法律，原因是税收案案发时比该法通过的时间还早好几年。贝卢斯科尼的另一位忠实拥护者直接警告称，剥夺他的参议员席位等同于政治战争：他可能会撤销他的党对联盟政府的支持，把政府搞垮。
The coalition, led by Prime Minister Enrico Letta, is already an awkward marriage between Mr. Berlusconi’s center-right party and its archrival, the center-left Democratic Party, as well as smaller parties. After inconclusive national elections this year, President Giorgio Napolitano, the 88-year-old senior statesman of Italian politics, midwifed the government into existence in the name of stability and reviving the moribund economy.
以总理恩里科·莱塔(Enrico Letta)为首的联盟政府是一桩尴尬联姻的产物，它的一边是贝卢斯科尼的中右翼政党，另一边是其主要的竞争对手，中左翼的民主党(Democratic Party)和其他更小的党派。在今年那场结果不明的全国大选之后，意大利政坛资深政治家、现年88岁的总统乔治·纳波利塔诺(Giorgio Napolitano)以稳定和重振低迷的经济为名，促成了现任政府的建立。
Under Italy’s Constitution, only the president can call new elections, and Mr. Napolitano has said that snap elections now would be economically and politically destructive. If Mr. Berlusconi pulls out, Mr. Napolitano would most likely try to form a different coalition government.
根据意大利宪法，只有总统能发起新选举，纳波利塔诺已经表示，在此刻仓促举行选举，会给意大利的经济和政治带来破坏。如果贝卢斯科尼退出，纳波利塔诺极有可能会设法组建一个不同的联盟政府。
“For him, stability has become the most important aspect of Italian politics, more than reform,” said Sergio Fabbrini, a political scientist and the director of the Luiss School of Government in Rome. “Instability means an economic loss of huge proportions.”
“对于他来说，稳定而非改革，成了意大利政治中最重要的方面，”政治科学家、罗马国际社会科学自由大学(Luiss Guido Carli University)政府学院院长塞尔焦·法布里尼(Sergio Fabbrini)说。“动荡就意味着经济上的重大损失。”
Some analysts say Mr. Berlusconi’s threats to bring down the government would be likely to dissolve if an accommodation could be reached. Some of his supporters have suggested a presidential pardon, but Mr. Napolitano has not indicated he would offer one.
一些分析人士称，如果能达成和解，那么贝卢斯科尼要搞垮政府的威胁很可能会无果而终。他的一些支持者建议总统对他进行赦免，但是纳波利塔诺并未就此有所表示。
That has left Mr. Berlusconi roughly five weeks away from having to start serving his sentence. His conviction carries a four-year prison term, which was reduced to a single year under a law aimed at reducing prison overcrowding. He also has the right to decide by Oct. 15 whether he will serve his time in jail, under house arrest or through community service. He does not want to serve his sentence in any manner, regarding it as unjustified, yet his opponents insist that his political power cannot exempt him from the law.
如此一来，贝卢斯科尼将不得不在大约五周后开始服刑。定罪后，他被判刑四年，但是根据一条旨在减轻监狱拥挤状况的法律，他的刑期被减少到了一年。他还有权在10月15日以前决定自己是要在监狱里服刑、接受软禁还是进行公共服务。因为觉得不公，他根本不愿意通过任何形式来服刑，而他的对手则坚持表示，政治权力并不能让他逃脱法律的惩罚。
“For us, this is a matter of rule of law,” said Felice Casson, a senator from Venice with the Democratic Party, who nonetheless smiled at the thought of his party’s nemesis doing court-ordered manual labor. “He could clean up the Venice canals. There are convicts on lesser crimes in Venice who do that.”
“在我们看来，这是法治问题，”来自威尼斯的民主党参议员费利切·卡松(Felice Casson)说。在想到其党派的对手要听从法院命令去从事体力劳动时，他笑了。“他可以去清理威尼斯的河道。威尼斯有些罪名比他还轻的罪犯都在做这个。”
Now, though, the question is what Mr. Berlusconi’s next step will be and whether he will make trouble beyond Italy. Last Friday, during the Group of 20 meeting in Russia, Prime Minister Letta told reporters that the world was looking to Rome with concern.
然而，如今的问题是，贝卢斯科尼下一步将采取什么举措，以及他是否会为意大利及其欧洲伙伴带来麻烦。上周五，总理莱塔在于俄罗斯举行的20国峰会上告诉记者，国际社会都在对罗马的状况表示关切。
“There’s lots of interest in Italy, that Italy plays a role and there is stability,” Mr. Letta said, according to the Italian news agency ASNA. “There’s a need for a stable Italy in political, financial and economic terms.”
“各国都很关注意大利，希望它能担负起自己的责任，让局势稳定下来，”意大利通讯社安莎社(ASNA)援引莱塔的发言称。“政治、金融和经济方面都需要一个稳定的意大利。”
One Berlusconi loyalist, who has worked closely with him for years, described the former prime minister’s mood as one of “bitter outrage.” Some in his party are lobbying for a full-out political fight, while others warn that doing so could inflict damage on his businesses and his party.
贝卢斯科尼的一名忠诚拥护者称，这名前总理感到“极其愤怒”，这名拥护者曾与贝卢斯科尼密切共事数年之久。他党内的一些成员提议，全面开展政治斗争，而其他人则警告称，这样做只会对他的企业和党派造成损害。
“What worries him the most is his legacy,” said the loyalist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter, saying that Mr. Berlusconi was furious over the verdict. “He’s like a Navy Seal. He will never give up. Even though everybody says, ‘That’s it, we got him.’ But he’ll never give up.”
“最让他担心的是他的政治遗产，”这名忠实拥护者说。因为问题的敏感性，他要求匿名。他说，贝卢斯科尼对法院的裁决感到非常愤怒。“他就像一名海豹突击队(Navy Seal)队员一样，他绝不会放弃。虽然每个人都说‘我们终于逮住他了’，但他绝不放弃。”