ROME — Perhaps he will clean toilets, or sweep streets, or collect trash. There is no shortage of graffiti to be scrubbed off the palazzo walls of Rome. Or maybe Silvio Berlusconi, the powerful former prime minister, could pay his debt to Italian society by working in a soup kitchen.
罗马——他可能会去洗厕所、打扫街道，或是收垃圾。罗马那些城墙上可不缺要擦掉的涂鸦。或者，西尔维奥·贝卢斯科尼(Silvio Berlusconi)这位有权势的意大利前总理会在某个慈善厨房劳动，偿还他欠意大利社会的债务。
Not too long ago, Mr. Berlusconi was Italy’s central figure, with a swagger that delighted his supporters and a string of indiscretions and scandals that infuriated his enemies. Now, though, Mr. Berlusconi, 77, is a man convicted of tax fraud, and on Friday, he petitioned a court in Rome to let him serve his one-year sentence by performing community service.
不久之前，贝卢斯科尼还是意大利的核心人物，他的牛气令支持者欢欣鼓舞，他的一连串不检点行为和丑闻让他的对手感到愤怒。但现在，77岁的贝卢斯科尼被判犯有税务欺诈罪，他在周五请求罗马一家法庭允许他以社区服务来替代一年的监禁。
Mr. Berlusconi has already endured one of the more tumultuous months of his never-boring political career. His effort to bring down Italy’s fragile government, in the hope that new elections would revive his political career, failed after a rebellion in his own party. Then, a special commission in Italy’s Senate recommended that he be stripped of his Senate seat because of his tax fraud conviction, setting up his likely expulsion this month.
最近几个月，贝卢斯科尼经历了其从不平淡的政治生涯中较为动荡的一段时期。他试图搞垮意大利脆弱的联合政府，寄希望于新的选举使自己在政治上转运，但这一努力因党内反叛而破产。之后，意大利参议院一个特别委员会建议，由于他被判犯有税务欺诈罪，他应当被取消参议院议席。他很可能在本月被正式踢出参议院。
The setbacks shifted attention to Mr. Berlusconi’s one-year sentence, which is to begin Tuesday. Under a law intended to reduce prison overcrowding, older Italians convicted of certain crimes may choose between house arrest or community service.
这些挫折将人们的注意力转移到贝卢斯科尼的一年刑期上，他将从周二开始服刑。根据一项意在减少监狱拥挤状况的法律，被判某些罪的意大利老年人可在软禁或者社区服务之间进行选择。
At first, Mr. Berlusconi, a billionaire media mogul, seemed likely to choose house arrest, at either his palace in Rome or his larger palace outside Milan. But his supporters said house arrest could unduly restrict his access to people, his business and his political activities.
最初，身为亿万富翁媒体大亨的贝卢斯科尼似乎要选择在自己的罗马豪宅或是米兰郊区一栋更大的豪宅内软禁。但他的支持者说，软禁可能过多地限制他与外界、自己的企业以及政治活动的接触。
Community service would provide him with greater latitude. For the past week, speculation and suggestions have abounded in Italy’s media about what service might be fitting, serious and otherwise.
社区服务则会给他更大自由。过去一周，意大利媒体纷纷猜测或提议哪种服务可能合适，有些是认真的，还有一些是调侃的。
Il Tappeto di Iqbal, a street circus from Naples, offered him a spotlight. “Berlusconi could go on stage and tell his own jokes,” a circus organizer said. In his younger days, Mr. Berlusconi sometimes sang in public, even in French, a background that prompted one social services association to suggest he might provide voice lessons.
那不勒斯街头马戏团Il Tappeto di Iqbal称，他可以在那里上台表演。马戏团一名组织者说，“贝卢斯科尼可以上台讲他自己的笑话。”贝卢斯科尼年轻一点的时候曾在公开场合唱歌，甚至用法语唱歌，根据他的这个背景，一家社会服务组织建议他去教练声课。
One consumer association thought Mr. Berlusconi would be an effective pro bono consumer defender (no doubt he has spent much time, effort and money defending himself and his companies over the years). A small city in northeastern Italy offered him a desk and an office to counsel entrepreneurs suffering from the recession.
一家消费者协会认为，贝卢斯科尼可以成为一个很好的义务为消费者提供保护的人（无疑，多年来他花了大把时间、金钱和精力来保护自己及其公司）。意大利东北的一个小城市为他提供一个办公室，让他为那些因经济衰退而处境艰难的企业家提供辅导。
The list goes on: A far-right politician offered work selling ads for his partisan newspaper. The far-left Radical Party suggested that Mr. Berlusconi join forces with it to overhaul Italy’s judiciary.
这个单子可以继续列下去：一个极右政客向他提供为其“党报”销售广告的职位。极左的激进党(Radical Party)则建议，贝卢斯科尼与该党联手，整改意大利司法体系。
Gino Strada, a founder of Emergency, the highly regarded Italian organization that provides medical services in war zones and elsewhere, said Mr. Berlusconi would be welcome to help out, noting that the group is at work in Sudan and Afghanistan.
深受尊重的意大利组织、在战区和其他地方提供医疗服务的Emergency创始人吉诺·斯特拉达(Gino Strada)说，欢迎贝卢斯科尼来帮忙，称该组织目前在苏丹和阿富汗忙得很。
Mr. Strada did have one caveat: “I wouldn’t let him deal with the balance sheets,” he told the Italian press.
斯特拉达附带了一个告诫：“我不会让他去处理资产负债表，”他对意大利媒体说。
Mr. Berlusconi’s lawyers have declined to speak publicly about the situation. But Ansa, an Italian news agency, confirmed the filing, as did a longtime member of Mr. Berlusconi’s inner circle who declined to be identified.
贝卢斯科尼的律师拒绝公开谈论当前的情况。但意大利安莎通讯社(Ansa)证实了其向法庭提交的申请，贝卢斯科尼的小圈子内一名不愿具名的老成员也证实了这件事。
The newspaper Corriere della Sera reported that Mr. Berlusconi arrived in Rome this week and was considering options, including the possibility that he could perform some sort of community service from home — maybe draft an economic program for Italy’s poor. (This was seen as reasonable, given that Mr. Berlusconi has about 20 bodyguards, which could complicate volunteer work.)
意大利《晚邮报》(Corriere della Sera)报道称，贝卢斯科尼这周到达罗马，正在考虑各种选择，包括他可以在家做一些社区服务的可能性——或许是为意大利穷人制订一套经济计划。（这种安排被认为是合理的，因为贝卢斯科尼有20来个保镖，这可能让志愿工作变得复杂。）
Finally, some political analysts are still wondering whether Mr. Berlusconi, in the end, will avoid serving his full sentence. His family has reportedly been filing petitions for a pardon from President Giorgio Napolitano, who so far has not seemed receptive. But in recent days, Mr. Napolitano has been speaking publicly about the need for amnesty programs to reduce prison overcrowding.
最后，一些政治分析人士仍在猜测，贝卢斯科尼最终能否避免完成全部刑期。据称，他的家人在请求总统乔治·纳波利塔诺(Giorgio Napolitano)赦免，迄今纳波利塔诺似乎不为所动。但最近几天，纳波利塔诺在公开场合谈到需要建立赦免计划，以缓解监狱的拥挤状况。