BEIRUT, Lebanon — A powerful car bomb exploded in the southern suburbs of Beirut on Thursday afternoon, ravaging a mixed neighborhood populated by many supporters of Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite militia and political party. It appeared to be the latest in a series of bombings over the civil war in neighboring Syria, where Hezbollah has sent fighters to aid government forces and its opponents support the insurgency.
黎巴嫩贝鲁特——周四下午，一枚强力汽车炸弹在贝鲁特南郊发生爆炸，对一个混居街区造成严重破坏，这个社区居住着许多真主党(Hezbollah)的支持者，真主党是黎巴嫩什叶派民兵组织和政党。此次爆炸似乎是因邻国叙利亚内战而起的一系列爆炸案当中最近的一起，真主党派遣了作战人员到叙利亚去协助政府部队，其对手则支持反政府武装势力。
Lebanese television showed scenes of chaos in a residential area, with smoke rising above charred cars, crowds of people pushing past one another and ambulances and fire trucks arriving. The state-run National News Agency said at least four people were killed and more than 70 wounded. Other Lebanese media put the death toll at six.
黎巴嫩电视台播放了居民区现场一片混乱的场景，烧焦的车辆浓烟滚滚，人群相互推挤，救护车和消防车纷纷抵达现场。官方媒体国家通讯社(National News Agency)表示，至少有四人丧生，70多人受伤。其他黎巴嫩媒体则称有六人死亡。
The Lebanese army said the source of the blast appeared to have been more than 40 pounds of explosives packed in a dark green Jeep Cherokee. The National News Agency said human remains had been found in a car near the blast site but that the authorities had not determined whether they belonged to a suicide bomber.
黎巴嫩军方表示，爆炸源好像是重达40多磅的爆炸物，被装载在一辆墨绿色的切诺基吉普上。国家通讯社说，在爆炸地点附近的一辆车上找到了人体残骸，不过，当局尚未查明残骸是否属于自杀式炸弹袭击者。
The blast came six days after a car bomb killed a prominent member of the Future bloc, the Sunni party that is Hezbollah’s main political rival. And it came a day after reports surfaced of the arrest by Lebanese authorities of a Saudi militant who leads the Abdullah Azzam Brigades, a group affiliated with Al Qaeda that claimed responsibility for a November suicide bombing at the Iranian Embassy in Beirut. Iran is an ally of Hezbollah.
此次爆炸发生六天以前，一次汽车炸弹袭击杀死了逊尼派政党“未来阵线”(Future bloc)的一个知名成员，该党是真主党主要的政敌。此次爆炸发生的前一天，有报道称黎巴嫩当局逮捕了一名沙特阿拉伯激进分子，此人是基地组织(Al Qaeda)分支“阿卜杜拉·阿扎姆旅”(Abdullah Azzam Brigades)的头目。阿扎姆旅曾声称对去年11月发生在伊朗驻贝鲁特大使馆的自杀式炸弹袭击负责，伊朗是真主党的盟友。
The recent bombings, which have primarily killed civilians and instilled fear across Lebanon, are part of a string of escalating attacks in recent months related to the nearly three-year-old conflict in Syria, which has deepened Lebanon’s pre-existing political and sectarian divisions. Hezbollah’s fighters have been helping the Syrian army, and the Future bloc endorses the insurgency, which Lebanese Sunni militants have crossed the border to join.
近几个月发生了一连串逐步升级的袭击事件，它们与持续已近三年的叙利亚内战有关，这场内战加深了黎巴嫩原有的政治和宗派分歧。最近的几起炸弹袭击是这一系列袭击事件的一部分，遇难者主要是平民，在黎巴嫩各地引发了恐惧情绪。真主党作战人员一直在帮助叙利亚政府军，“未来阵线”则支持反政府武装势力，黎巴嫩的逊尼派武装分子已经跨越边境，加入了后者的队伍。
Fearing more indiscriminate violence and a further unraveling in Lebanon, leaders of the divergent factions in the country’s complex politics rushed to condemn the latest bombing, even those who want Hezbollah out of Syria. The March 14th coalition, of which the Future bloc is the largest party, said in a statement that each victim was “a martyr mourned by all Lebanese.” The March 14 leader, Saad Hariri, the former prime minister, said “the terrorism that is targeting civilians, innocents and civilian areas is criminal behavior.”
由于担心黎巴嫩出现更多不择对象的暴力和进一步的分裂，该国复杂政坛中各个派系的领导人都迫不及待地谴责了最新的爆炸事件，就连那些希望真主党撤出叙利亚的领导人也不例外。3月14日联盟(March 14 coalition)在一份声明中表示，每一位遇难者都是“烈士，所有黎巴嫩人都会对他们表示哀悼”。“未来阵线”是该联盟的主要政党。联盟领袖、前总理萨阿德·哈里里(Saad Hariri)表示，“针对平民、无辜者及平民区的恐怖主义行动是一种犯罪行为。”
In a video statement last week, a cleric acting as a spokesman for the Abdullah Azzam Brigades declared that the group would not stop its bombings until Hezbollah withdraws its fighters from Syria and Lebanese authorities release youths imprisoned for militant activities. Lebanese officials had expressed concern after the arrest of the group’s leader, Majid al-Majid, about the possibility of retaliatory attacks.
在上周的一份视频声明中，一名担任阿卜杜拉·阿扎姆旅发言人的阿訇宣称，该组织不会停止炸弹袭击，除非真主党撤回派往叙利亚的武装人员、黎巴嫩当局释放因激进活动而被监禁的年轻人。该组织领导人马吉德·马吉德(Majid al-Majid)遭到逮捕之后，黎巴嫩官员曾表示，他们担心该组织会采取报复性袭击行动。
Hezbollah’s leader, Hassan Nasrallah, has said in speeches that the group is fighting in Syria to thwart takfiris, a disparaging reference to Sunni extremists who brand their opponents as infidels. Mr. Nasrallah has called them a threat not just to Shiites but to the entire region.
真主党领导人哈桑·纳斯鲁拉(Hassan Nasrallah)曾在讲话中表示，该组织在叙利亚参加斗争，为的是打击takfiris，takfiris是对逊尼派(Sunni)极端分子的轻蔑称谓，后者则称自己的对手是异教徒。纳斯鲁拉曾表示，逊尼派极端分子不仅威胁到了什叶派(Shittes)，还威胁到了整个地区。
The bombings are seen by supporters and critics of Hezbollah as targeting civilians to put pressure on Hezbollah over its Syria policy. But Hezbollah’s political base seems deeply committed, and its fighters exhibit a soldier-like discipline in going where ordered. Still, the bombings have led to new security measures in the southern suburbs and left the group’s supporters, as well as Shiites not affiliated with the party, feeling increasingly at risk.
真主党的支持者和批评者都认为，这些炸弹袭击以平民为目标，目的是向真主党施压，迫使其改变叙利亚政策。但真主党的政治基础似乎非常坚定，其武装人员执行命令时展现了军人般的纪律性。尽管如此，炸弹袭击还是促使南部郊区采取新的安全举措，致使该组织支持者以及与该组织无关的什叶派人士越来越恐慌。
Randa Slim, a Lebanese analyst at the Middle East Institute, has said that the recent string of attacks on Hezbollah interests and civilians in areas it controls has strengthened a view among some of Lebanon’s Shiites, that “the fight in Syria is making the party and the community vulnerable and less protected at a time when the community feels itself targeted by a number of domestic and regional enemies.”
中东研究所(Middle East Institute)的黎巴嫩分析人士兰达·斯理姆(Randa Slim)曾表示，最近这一系列针对真主党利益及其控制区内平民的袭击行动，已经使部分黎巴嫩什叶派人士更加相信一个观点，亦即“什叶派群体本来就觉得自己被一些国内及地区内敌人当成了攻击目标，叙利亚的斗争则使真主党及什叶派更容易遭受攻击，更缺乏保护。”