Detroit, the cradle of America’s automobile industry and once the nation’s fourth-most-populous city, filed for bankruptcy on Thursday, the largest American city ever to take such a course.
周四，曾是美国人口第四大城市的美国汽车业摇篮底特律申请破产，成为了美国有史以来最大的采取这种作法的城市。
The decision, confirmed by officials after it trickled out in late afternoon news reports, also amounts to the largest municipal bankruptcy filing in American history in terms of debt.
在傍晚的新闻报道中传出后，这一决定得到了官员的证实。该决定也是美国史上以债务而言规模最大的城市破产申请。
“This is a difficult step, but the only viable option to address a problem that has been six decades in the making,” said Gov. Rick Snyder, who authorized the move after a recommendation from the emergency financial manager he had appointed to resolve Detroit’s dire financial situation.
“这是艰难的一步，但也是解决一个酝酿了六十年的问题的唯一可行方案，”州长里克·斯奈德(Rick Snyder)说。在他派去解决底特律财政困境的紧急财务主管提出建议之后，他批准了这一举措。
Not everyone agrees how much Detroit owes, but Kevyn D. Orr, the emergency manager, has said the debt is likely to be $18 billion and perhaps as much as $20 billion.
关于底特律的欠债数额，众人意见不一。不过，前述紧急财务主管凯文·D·奥尔(Kevyn D. Orr)表示债务金额可能为180亿美元（约1100亿元人民币），或许高达200亿美元。
For Detroit, the filing came as a painful reminder of a city’s rise and fall.
对底特律而言，申请破产令人痛苦地唤起了这个城市兴衰起伏的记忆。
Detroit expanded at a stunning rate in the first half of the 20th century with the arrival of the automobile industry, and then shrank away in recent decades at a similarly remarkable pace. A city of 1.8 million in 1950, it is now home to 700,000 people, as well as to tens of thousands of abandoned buildings, vacant lots and unlit streets.
上世纪前半叶，随着汽车工业的到来，底特律的发展速度令人震惊，但最近几十年，这座城市的萎缩速度同样令人惊叹。底特律在1950年的时候拥有180万人口，现在则只有70万人，以及成千上万的废弃建筑、空置土地和漆黑街道。
From here, there is no road map for Detroit’s recovery, not least of all because municipal bankruptcies are rare. State officials said ordinary city business would carry on as before, even as city leaders take their case to a judge, first to prove that the city is so financially troubled as to be eligible for bankruptcy, and later to argue that Detroit’s creditors and representatives of city workers and municipal retirees ought to settle for less than they once expected.
从这里，人们看不到底特律复苏的路线图，尤其因为城市破产的情况很少见。州官员称，日常城市活动将一如既往地继续，市领导则会找一名法官来处理这件事，首先要证明该市的财政状况糟糕到了够资格申请破产的地步，然后再努力证明，底特律的债权人以及市政府工作人员和退休人员的代表应该以低于先前预期的金额达成和解。
Some bankruptcy experts and city leaders bemoaned the likely fallout from the filing, including the stigma. They anticipate further benefit cuts for city workers and retirees, more reductions in services for residents, and a detrimental effect on borrowing.
一些破产专家和市领导叹惋申请破产可能带来的后果，包括耻辱在内。他们预计，市政府工作人员和退休人员的福利以及居民享受的服务都会被进一步削减，未来的借贷也会受到严重影响。
“For a struggling family I can see bankruptcy, but for a big city like this, can it really work?” said Diane Robinson, an office assistant who has worked for the city for 20 years. “What will happen to city retirees on fixed incomes?”
已经为这座城市工作了20年的办公室助理黛安娜·罗宾逊(Diane Robinson)说，“我能理解一个苦苦挣扎的家庭为什么要破产，可是，对于这样规模的一个大城市，破产真的能奏效吗？依赖固定收入的城市退休人员该怎么办？”
But others, including some Detroit business leaders who have seen a rise in private investment downtown despite the city’s larger struggles, said bankruptcy seemed the only choice left.
不过，其他一些人说，破产似乎是唯一的选择。说这话的人包括底特律的一些商界领袖，尽管底特律整体上陷入了困境，他们还是目睹了私人投资在市中心区域的上涨。
“The worst thing we can do is ignore a problem,” said Sandy K. Baruah, president of the Detroit Regional Chamber. “We’re finally executing a fix.”
底特律商会(Detroit Regional Chamber)会长桑迪·K·巴鲁阿(Sandy K. Baruah)说，“我们能做的最糟糕的事情就是忽略问题。如今，我们终于开始修正错误了。”
The decision to go to court signaled a breakdown after weeks of tense negotiations, in which Mr. Orr had been trying to persuade creditors to accept pennies on the dollar and unions to accept cuts in benefits.
向法院申请破产的决定显示，历时几周的紧张谈判已经破裂。谈判期间，奥尔一直在设法劝说债权人接受大幅缩水的还款，劝说工会接受福利削减。
All along, the state’s involvement — including Mr. Snyder’s decision to send in an emergency manager — has carried racial implications, setting off a wave of concerns for some in Detroit that the mostly white Republican-led state government was trying to seize control of Detroit, a Democratic city where more than 80 percent of residents are black.
州政府的涉入，包括斯奈德决定派遣一位紧急主管的决定，自始至终都带有种族主义的色彩，并在部分底特律人当中引发了阵阵担忧。他们担心，主要由共和党白人领导的州政府正在设法夺取对底特律的控制权，底特律是民主党的地盘，当地超过80%的居民是黑人。
The nature of Detroit’s situation ensures that it will be watched intensely by the municipal bond market, by public sector unions, and by leaders of other financially challenged cities around the country. Just over 60 cities, towns, villages and counties have filed under Chapter 9, the court proceeding used by municipalities, since the mid-1950s.
底特律时局的本质使它注定要受到市债券市场、公共部门工会，以及全国各地其他面临财政挑战的城市的领导人的密切关注。自上世纪50年代中期以来，只有刚好超过60个美国城镇、乡村及县根据《破产法》第九章提出了破产申请，该法律章节是市政当局向法院提出破产诉讼程序的依据。
Leaders in Washington and in Lansing, the state capital, issued statements of concern late Thursday. A White House spokeswoman said President Obama and his senior team were closely monitoring the situation.
美国政府领导人及密歇根州州府兰辛的领导人于周四晚间发布了关切声明。白宫的一名女发言人说，奥巴马总统及其高级团队正在密切监测底特律的动向。
The debt in Detroit dwarfs that of Jefferson County, Ala., which had been the nation’s largest municipal bankruptcy, having filed in 2011 with about $4 billion in debt. The population of Detroit, the largest city in Michigan, is more than twice that of Stockton, Calif., which filed for bankruptcy in 2012 and had been the nation’s most populous city to do so.
底特律的债务让阿拉巴马州杰斐逊县相形见绌，后者经历了美国最大的市政破产案，该县在2011年提出破产申请，债务达到40亿美元左右。底特律是密歇根州最大的城市，人口是加利福尼亚州斯托克顿市的两倍还多，斯托克顿市于2012年申请破产，当时是申请破产的美国城市中人口最多的一个。
Detroit’s struggle, experts say, is particularly dire because it is not limited to a single event or one failed financial deal, like the troubled sewer system largely responsible for Jefferson County’s downfall.
专家称，底特律的困境尤为窘迫，因为它并不局限于一个单独事件或一次失败的金融交易，例如在很大程度上导致杰斐逊县政府倒闭的下水管道系统问题。
Instead, numerous factors over many years have brought Detroit to this point, including a shrunken tax base but still a huge, 139-square-mile city to maintain; overwhelming health care and pension costs; repeated efforts to manage mounting debts with still more borrowing; annual deficits in the city’s operating budget since 2008; and city services crippled by aged computer systems, poor record-keeping and widespread dysfunction.
相反，把底特律推到这步田地的是多年积累的众多因素，其中包括：税基缩水，却仍要维持这样一个139平方英里（约合360平方公里）的庞大城市；不堪负荷的医疗保健和养老金成本；为应对债台高筑的局面而一再进行的继续举债；2008年以来这座城市运营预算中的年度赤字；以及老旧的电脑系统、糟糕的档案记录和普遍的职能障碍导致的城市服务运转不灵。
All of that makes bankruptcy — a process that could take months, if not years, and is itself expected to be costly — particularly complex.
所有这些使得底特律的破产特别复杂。破产过程没有几年也得几个月，本身就会产生高昂的成本。
Around this city, there was widespread uncertainty about what bankruptcy might really mean, now and in the long term. Officials said city workers were being sent letters, notifying them that city business would proceed as usual, from bills to permits.
这座城市弥漫着不确定的情绪，人们都不知道，从现在和长远来看，破产的真正意味会是什么。官员称，市政工作人员收到了信件，告诉他们从账单到许可证的各种市政业务都要照常运转。
Residents are likely to see little immediate change from the way the city has been run since March, when Mr. Orr arrived to oversee major decisions. A bankruptcy lawyer, he is widely expected to continue to run Detroit during a legal process. Mayor Dave Bing and Detroit’s elected City Council are still paid to hold office and are permitted to make decisions about day-to-day operations, though Mr. Orr could remove those powers.
居民多半看不到，与3月份奥尔来这里监督重大决策之后的情况相比，城市会有什么立刻的转变。奥尔是一名破产律师，许多人预期他会在法律程序中继续运营底特律。市长戴夫·宾(Dave Bing)和底特律选举的市议会仍会带薪留职，还可以在日常运作中作出决策，不过奥尔可以剥夺这些权力。
Mr. Orr has said that as part of any restructuring he wants to spend about $1.25 billion on improving city infrastructure and services. But a major concern for Detroit residents remains the possibility that services, already severely lacking, might be further diminished in bankruptcy.
奥尔曾表示，不管怎么重建，他都要投资12.5亿美元来改善城市的基础设施和服务。然而，底特律居民的主要担忧依然存在，那就是已经严重缺乏的城市服务可能会在破产中进一步削弱。
About 40 percent of the city’s streetlights do not work, a report from Mr. Orr’s office showed. More than half of Detroit’s parks have closed since 2008.
奥尔办公室的一份报告显示，该市大约40%的交通灯不起作用。自2008年以来，底特律有超过一半的公园已经关闭。