ISTANBUL — An Istanbul prosecutor who had been overseeing a sprawling corruption investigation of the prime minister’s inner circle was removed from the case on Thursday, in a new sign of a profound power struggle over Turkey’s judiciary and police forces.
伊斯坦布尔——周四，一名负责对土耳其总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安(Recep Tayyip Erdogan)的内部圈子进行大规模腐败调查的伊斯坦布尔检察官被调离此案，这个新迹象表明，土耳其内部正围绕控制司法和警察机关的权力进行激烈斗争。
In leaving his position under pressure, the prosecutor, Muammer Akkas, issued a condemnation of Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s government, accusing it of interfering in the judiciary and preventing him from carrying out his work.
因压力而离开岗位的检察官穆阿莫尔·阿卡斯(Muammer Akkas)对总理雷杰普·塔伊普·埃尔多安的政府表示了谴责，指责政府干扰司法，不让他执行工作。
Mr. Akkas said that the government had prevented the police forces from pursuing a new round of suspects in the widening inquiry. Among those suspects, according to several Turkish news media reports, is Mr. Erdogan’s son, whose name was on a summons that was leaked to the press on Thursday evening.
阿卡斯说，随着调查范围扩大，政府阻止了警方逮捕另一批嫌犯的行动。几家土耳其新闻媒体称，这批嫌犯还包括埃尔多安的儿子，他的名字出现在了周四晚泄露给媒体的传票上。
“The judiciary has clearly been pressured,” Mr. Akkas said in a written statement, charging his superiors with “committing a crime” for not carrying out arrest warrants, and saying that suspects had been allowed to “take precautions, flee and tamper with evidence.”
“司法部门明显受到了压力，”阿卡斯在书面声明中说。他指责上司因没有执行逮捕令而“犯了罪”，还说嫌犯因此得以“采取预防措施、逃跑及篡改证据”。
The prosecutor’s removal from the case came a day after the resignations of three ministers whose sons had been implicated. One of them, the environment and urban planning minister, Erdogan Bayraktar, broke precedent by calling for the prime minister to resign, too.
此前一天，三名部长因各自的儿子涉案而辞职。三人之中，环境和城市规划部长埃尔多安·拜拉克塔(Erdogan Bayraktar)还打破先例，要求总理也辞职。
Soon afterward, Mr. Erdogan announced a broader overhaul of his cabinet. Though some of the moves had already been planned, so that certain ministers could run in mayoral elections in March, the shake-up was widely seen as an effort to install loyalists around him.
不久之后，埃尔多安宣布要对内阁进行大规模调整。为了让一些部长能够参加3月的市长选举，一些人事变动其实早已列入计划，尽管如此，人们仍然广泛认为，埃尔多安重组内阁是为了在身边安插忠于自己的人。
The unfolding scandal has already done significant political damage to Mr. Erdogan, who has been in power for more than a decade and was widely considered a likely candidate in next summer’s presidential election, which for the first time will be determined by a national vote.
逐渐扩大的丑闻已经对埃尔多安造成了严重的政治损害。埃尔多安掌权已达10余年，人们广泛认为，他很可能会成为明年夏天总统选举的候选人。届时，土耳其总统将首次通过全国选举产生。
The corruption allegations are centered on claims of bribery involving vast real estate projects, many of them in Istanbul, that have become a hallmark of Mr. Erdogan’s time in power. No one has been convicted, but several people, including two sons of government ministers, have been arrested, and one of the departing ministers on Wednesday said that the prime minister himself had been involved in the real estate deals facing scrutiny.
相关腐败指控的焦点问题是，一些巨型房地产工程据称存在贿赂行为。这些工程有很多都位于伊斯坦布尔，而且已经成了埃尔多安掌权时期的标志。目前尚无任何人被定罪，但已有几人被捕，其中就包括两个政府部长的儿子。周三，已经辞职的一名部长称，总理本人也涉入了即将接受审查的房地产交易。
As the crisis has deepened, Mr. Erdogan has taken to suggesting that the inquiry is a foreign plot, and in remarks published on Thursday he said that he believed that he was the ultimate target of the investigation.
随着危机加深，埃尔多安开始暗示，相关调查是外国的阴谋。他在周四发表的言论中称，他认为自己是此次调查的最终目标。
Mr. Erdogan told the daily newspaper Hurriyet that those who tried to embroil him in the investigation would be “left empty-handed.” He made the comments to reporters on a plane as he returned from a visit to Pakistan on Tuesday.
埃尔多安对日报《自由报》(Hurriyet)说，那些试图让他受到调查牵连的人会“空手而归”。周二，结束对巴基斯坦的访问后，他在回国的飞机上向记者作出了如上评论。
After the prosecutor, Mr. Akkas, went public with his allegations of judicial interference, Istanbul’s chief prosecutor, Turhan Colakkadi, made his own remarks, saying that Mr. Akkas had been let go because had been leaking information to the news media.
检察官阿卡斯公开指责政府干扰司法后，伊斯坦布尔首席检察官图尔汗·克拉卡迪(Turhan Colakkadi)也发表了自己的意见，称阿卡斯被免职是因为他向新闻媒体泄露信息。
Meanwhile, a higher judicial authority, the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which appoints judges and prosecutors and also oversees disciplinary actions against them, supported Mr. Akkas. The council also condemned a recent government decree that required prosecutors to receive permission for investigations from ministers, calling it a blatant attempt to rein in the inquiry. The organization said that the new decree “violates the Constitution, and those who govern the country are subject to the supervision of the judiciary.”
同时，法官和检察官高等委员会(High Council of Judges and Prosecutors)对阿卡斯表示了支持。该委员会是一个级别更高的司法机构，负责任命法官和检察官，并监管针对他们的纪律处分。该委员会还谴责了最近的一项政令，该政令要求检察官进行调查时须获得部长的许可。该委员会称这项政令意在悍然阻止相关调查，并表示这项新政令“违反了宪法，那些治理国家的人应接受司法监督”。
The prosecutor’s removal on Thursday was the newest and most direct step yet in a government purge of police and judiciary officials responsible for the inquiry.
阿卡斯周四遭到免职一事是政府清洗警方和司法系统负责此次调查的官员的最新举措，也是迄今为止最直接的举措。
Many officials within Turkey’s police and judiciary establishments are followers of Fethullah Gulen, an Islamic spiritual leader who lives in self-imposed exile in Pennsylvania. Mr. Gulen and Mr. Erdogan represent competing Islamist traditions and once were partners in dismantling much of the structure of Turkey’s secular state, which ruled for decades with the military as the ultimate power. Now, the same police and judiciary that pursued the generals — and won, through a series of court cases that put many officers in prison — appear to be pursuing Mr. Erdogan’s government.
在土耳其的警察和司法系统当中，许多官员都是费特胡拉·居伦(Fethullah Gulen)的信徒。居伦是一位伊斯兰宗教领袖，目前在宾夕法尼亚州过着自我流放的生活。居伦和埃尔多安代表着两种互不相容的伊斯兰传统，两人曾联手推翻了土耳其世俗政府的许多架构。土耳其世俗政府曾统治土耳其几十年，那时，军方拥有最高权力。警方和司法力量曾追着军方将领不放，通过一系列诉讼案件将许多军官送进了监狱，最终取得了胜利。如今，同样的警方和司法力量似乎正追着埃尔多安的政府不放。
The investigation became public last week with a series of raids, and subsequent leaks to the news media, and the government has already dismissed dozens of police chiefs and many other lower-level officers.
上周，在一系列突击搜查以及随后的向新闻媒体泄密事件后，此次调查进入了公众的视野。政府已经解雇了几十名警察局长和其他许多职位较低的警察。
Turkey’s opposition on Thursday accused Mr. Erdogan of trying to rule via a secretive “deep state,” following the cabinet reshuffle in which he moved to cement his control over the police by installing a key ally at the powerful Interior Ministry.
周四，土耳其反对派对埃尔多安表示了谴责，称他试图在内阁改组后通过秘密的“深暗势力”统治国家。改组内阁时，埃尔多安在权势强大的内政部(Interior Ministry)安插了一名关键盟友，由此巩固了自己对警察系统的控制。
Mr. Erdogan “is trying to put together a cabinet that will not show any opposition to him,” Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the head of the main opposition party, the Republican People’s Party, said in remarks reported by the Turkish news media. “Erdogan has a deep state.”
土耳其新闻媒体报道称，主要反对党共和人民党(Republican People’s Party)主席凯末尔·克勒奇达洛卢(Kemal Kilicdaroglu)说，埃尔多安“正试图组建一个不会对他说半个不字的内阁。埃尔多安掌握着一股‘深暗势力’”。
The term “deep state” has a sinister connotation in Turkey. It alludes to a murky group of operatives once thought to be linked to the military that many Turks believe carried out operations outside democratic structures.
在土耳其，“深暗势力”这个术语有着邪恶的含义。它暗指一个由特工组成的隐秘组织，该组织一度被认为与军方有关。许多土耳其人认为，军方在民主框架之外开展活动。