PARIS — The collapse of the French government on Monday exposed widening divisions both within France’s leadership, and Europe more broadly, over austerity policies that many now fault for threatening to tip the eurozone back into recession.
巴黎——法国政府在周一的崩溃，暴露出了法国领导层以及更广泛的欧洲内部在财政紧缩政策方面的分歧日渐加剧。时下，很多人指责财政紧缩政策可能会让欧元区重新陷入衰退。
Prime Minister Manuel Valls announced that he would dissolve his government after a rancorous battle in his cabinet over whether the belt-tightening measures taken by President François Hollande — at the urging of Germany and European Union officials in Brussels — were impeding France’s recovery. 
法国总理曼纽尔·瓦尔斯(Manuel Valls)宣布，围绕弗朗索瓦·奥朗德(François Hollande)总统采取的财政紧缩措施是否阻碍了法国的复苏，以他为首的内阁进行了一场充满敌意的斗争，在这场斗争后，他打算解散自己领导的政府。奥朗德的那些措施是应德国和布鲁塞尔的欧盟官员的请求而采取的。
The dispute broke into the open when Mr. Vall’s outspoken economy minister, Arnaud Montebourg, insisted in an interview over the weekend that austerity had gone too far. “The priority must be exiting the crisis, and the dogmatic reduction of deficits should come after,” he told the newspaper Le Monde.
瓦尔斯手下直言不讳的经济部长阿诺·蒙特布尔(Arnaud Montebourg)在周末接受采访时坚称，财政紧缩过了头，从而导致相关争端公开化。他告诉《世界报》(Le Monde)， “首要任务必定是结束这场危机，基于教条的削减赤字应是其次。”
He also took direct aim at the policies of Angela Merkel, the German chancellor. “Germany is caught in a trap of austerity that it is imposing across Europe,” he said.
他还将矛头直接对准了德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)的政策。“德国已经被困在它强加于欧洲的那种紧缩陷阱里，”他说。
The cabinet reshuffle precipitated by those comments was the second major shake-up since Mr. Hollande took over the presidency in 2012. Since then, the French economy has been flat and Mr. Hollande has been dogged by some of the lowest approval ratings for a French president in decades.
这些评论引发的内阁重组，是奥朗德自2012年担任总统以来遭遇的第二次大型改组。自那时以来，法国经济没什么变化，奥朗德在一些民调中的支持率，是几十年来法国总统中最低的。
The government collapse did more than throw France’s politics into disarray. It also bared the growing disagreement between France and Germany — Europe’s largest economies — over whether Ms. Merkel’s prescription of austerity threatened to turn a five-year euro crisis into a long-term malaise of low growth and high unemployment.
政府崩溃不仅让法国政界陷入了混乱。此事还暴露出法国与欧洲最大的经济体德国之间的分歧日渐加剧，产生分歧的核心，是默克尔的财政紧缩方案是否可能将历时五年的欧元危机，变成以低增长和高失业率为标志的长期不景气。
The announcement in Paris coincided with a visit by Ms. Merkel to Spain, where she praised Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy for austerity measures that have included a freeze on public salaries and more flexible labor laws. While Mr. Rajoy credits the steps with restoring faint growth to Spain’s economy, the changes have not been popular. During the visit, the chancellor was forced to delay a planned speech after throngs of protesters booed her.
法国政府在巴黎发表此番声明时，默克尔正在访问西班牙。在那里，默克尔对西班牙首相马里亚诺·拉霍伊(Mariano Rajoy)采取的财政紧缩措施表示了称赞。拉霍伊采取的措施包括冻结公共部门的工资，以及实行更灵活的劳动法。尽管拉霍伊称这些举措让西班牙经济恢复了微弱的增长，但相关变革并不受欢迎。在访问西班牙期间，默克尔被迫推迟了原定计划中的一次演讲，原因是成群结队的抗议者朝她发出嘘声。
Asked about events in France, Ms. Merkel told reporters that she wished Mr. Hollande success, but declined to comment on French domestic politics. The tension with the French government, however, has been evident.
被问及法国发生的事情时，默克尔告诉记者，她祝奥朗德成功，但她拒绝评论法国国内的政治。然而，与法国政府之间的紧张关系一直颇为明显。
In early August, after Mr. Hollande was quoted telling French reporters that a change in economic direction might be needed in Europe, a German government spokeswoman, Christiane Wirtz, crisply commented that the German government “sees no reason to undertake any correction in its policies,” and certainly not because of “rather glib statements from Paris.”
8月初，有报道引述了奥朗德对法国记者说的话，称欧洲可能需要对经济方向进行调整，德国政府发言人克里斯蒂安·维尔茨(Christiane Wirtz)随后明确评论称，德国政府“认为没理由对政策进行任何调整”，更不会因为“巴黎方面极其夸夸其谈的说法”而那么做。
Last week, Mr. Hollande acknowledged the problems his government faced, saying in an interview with Le Monde that austerity policies the country had been compelled to follow to meet the eurozone’s budget deficit target had made it nearly impossible to achieve a recovery after six months of zero growth and more than a year of weak economic activity. The eurozone consists of the 18 members of the European Union that use the euro.
上周，奥朗德承认了他的政府所面对的问题，他在接受《世界报》(Le Monde)的采访时说，为了达到欧元区的预算赤字目标，法国不得不实施一些紧缩政策，而在经历了6个月的零增长和一年多的经济疲软之后，这些政策使法国几乎不可能实现经济复苏。欧元区包括18个使用欧元的欧盟(European Union)成员国。
As a result, he said, France will no longer try to meet a deficit reduction target this year, and may fall behind on deficit reduction next year as he seeks to put in place 50 billion euros worth of spending cuts he has already pledged to make through 2017. Mr. Hollande acknowledged that growth is so weak in France that it was unlikely to rebound any time soon.
他说，法国今年不会再试图达到赤字削减目标，而此前承诺的到2017年实现价值500亿欧元开支削减计划，明年可能出现进度滞后。奥朗德承认，法国的增长势头十分孱弱，短时间内不太可能出现回升。
His warning that growth had been jeopardized was the most strident repudiation yet of the policies that Ms. Merkel and the union’s bureaucrats insisted countries follow at the height of the euro crisis, when there was a palpable danger that the monetary union might break up.
在欧元危机最严重的时候——当时这个货币联盟已经出现要解体的迹象——默克尔和欧盟官员坚持让各国实施一系列政策，奥朗德关于经济增长受损的警告，是迄今对这些政策提出的最强硬反驳。
But a rising chorus of critics and economists now say that the austerity approach has left European governments little leeway to employ the kind of growth measures necessary to restore demand.
但是，目前越来越多的批评人士和经济学家都说，这些紧缩政策对一些欧洲政府形成了束缚，使它们无法实施恢复需求所需要的增长政策。
Paul de Grauwe, a professor of political economy at the London School of Economics, said that the collapse of the French government underlined a split within France and Europe as a whole over whether austerity measures, coupled with structural changes, were enough to restore Europe’s sagging economic fortunes.
伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)政治经济学教授保罗·德格罗韦(Paul De Grauwe)说，法国政府的分裂突显了法国与整个欧洲的分歧，在伴随着结构变化的紧缩政策是否足以挽救欧洲衰弱的经济命运的问题，双方各执己见。
“The Merkel view has been discredited, not in Germany, but pretty much everywhere else,” he said. “People are starting to see that the paradigm of the past three years is not enough. Confidence has not flowed and we are still waiting for growth.”
“默克尔的观点遭到了质疑，不仅是在德国，几乎在其他任何地方都是这样，”他说。“人们开始意识到，过去三年采取的模式是不够的。人们的信心并没有增强，我们仍然在等待增长。”