WASHINGTON — Containers of goods idling at ports. Reduced sales at sandwich shops in downtown Washington. Canceled vacations to national parks and to destinations abroad. Reduced corporate earnings forecasts. Higher interest payments on short-term debt.
华盛顿——一箱箱的货物在港口闲置。华盛顿闹市区的三明治店销售额下降。去国家公园或海外度假的计划被取消。企业盈利预期缩水。短期债券的收益率上升。
Even with the shutdown of the United States government and the threat of a default coming to an end, the cost of Congress’s gridlock has already run well into the billions, economists estimate. And the total will continue to grow even after the shutdown ends, partly because of uncertainty about whether lawmakers might reach another deadlock early next year.
虽然美国联邦政府停摆及违约威胁走向了尾声，但经济学家的估算表明，国会僵局的代价已达上百亿美元。政府开门后，这一数字仍将继续增长，其部分原因在于，外界不能确定议员们明年初会不会再次走入死胡同。
A complete accounting will take months once the government reopens and the Treasury resumes adding to the country’s debt. But economists said that the intransigence of House Republicans would take a bite out of fourth-quarter growth, which will affect employment, business earnings and borrowing costs. The ripple from Washington will be felt around the globe.
一旦政府重新开门、财政部恢复举债，相关的全面核算需要花费几个月时间。不过，经济学家们表示，众议院共和党人的顽固不化将蚕食第四季度的一部分经济增长，从而影响就业、企业盈利及举债成本。华盛顿产生的波动将传播到全球各地。
“We saw huge effects during the summer of 2011, with consumer confidence hitting a 31-year low in August and third-quarter G.D.P. growing just 1.4 percent,” said Beth Ann Bovino, chief United States economist at Standard & Poor’s, referring to earlier brinkmanship over the debt ceiling. “Given that this round of debt ceiling negotiations” took place during a shutdown, she said, “the impact on the economy could be even more severe.”
标准普尔(Standard & Poor)的首席美国经济师贝丝·安·博维诺(Beth Ann Bovino)说，“我们已经看到了2011年夏天的巨大影响，消费者信心8月跌到31年的最低点，第三季度的GDP只增长了1.4%。”她这里谈论的是之前一次围绕举债上限的边缘游戏。“鉴于本轮举债上限谈判”发生于政府停摆期间，她说，“对经济的影响可能更为严重。”
Economists say the shutdown and near breach of the debt ceiling would be unlikely to derail the recovery, now that Congress is moving toward resolving the impasse. In the weeks after the government reopens, there should be a modest rebound as employees spend their paychecks for the days they were on furlough and the government rushes to process backlogged orders.
经济学家们称，国会正朝着解决僵局的方向前进，政府关门及几近突破举债上限的事实不太可能破坏经济的复苏。政府重启后的几个星期里，应会出现小幅反弹，因为政府雇员将花掉休假期间的薪水，政府则会忙于处理积压的工作。
Still, many businesses might not recover all the money they would have made had the government operated normally, said Shai Akabas of the Bipartisan Policy Center, a research group based in Washington.
但是，华盛顿的研究机构两党政策中心(Bipartisan Policy Center)的沙伊·阿卡巴斯(Shai Akabas)表示，许多商家在政府关门期间造成的损失，可能无法弥补。
The two-week shutdown has trimmed about 0.3 percentage point from fourth-quarter growth, or about $12 billion, the forecasting firm Macroeconomic Advisers, based in St. Louis, recently estimated. Standard & Poor’s is more pessimistic, estimating that the shutdown will cut about 0.6 percent off inflation-adjusted gross domestic product, equivalent to $24 billion. Most analysts are predicting that growth will remain subpar, at an annual pace of 2 percent or less.
总部位于圣路易斯的预测机构宏观经济咨询公司(Macroeconomic Advisers)最近估算，两周的停摆已让第四季度的经济增长率损失约0.3个百分点，即120亿美元左右（约合730亿元人民币）。标准普尔则更为悲观，预计停摆将使扣除通胀影响的国内生产总值削去约0.6个百分点，即240亿美元。多数分析师预测，经济增长仍将乏力，年增长率不高于2%。
Moreover, this latest budget impasse came after years of similar episodes, and the economic ramifications have accumulated over time, analysts say. A new report from Macroeconomic Advisers, prepared for the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, estimates the costs of the fiscal uncertainty of the last few years. Its model suggests that uncertainty since late 2009 has increased certain corporate borrowing costs by 0.38 percentage point; lowered economic growth over that period by 0.3 percent a year, costing at least $150 billion in lost output; and left this year’s unemployment rate higher by 0.6 percentage point. That translates to 900,000 jobs lost.
而且，分析人士指出，最新一轮的预算僵局之前，类似事件已发生多年，其中的经济后果随时间的推移不断累积。宏观经济咨询公司为彼得·G·彼得森基金会(Peter G. Peterson Foundation)所做的新报告估算了过去几年的财政不确定性带来的成本。文中采用的模型显示，2009年底以来的不确定性使得部分企业借贷成本抬升了0.38个百分点；让该时段的经济增长率每年损失了0.3个百分点，总产出至少损失了1500亿美元；还导致今年的失业率高出了0.6%个百分点。换句话说，就是流失了90万个就业岗位。
The unusually rapid pace of deficit reduction, concentrated on goods and services the government delivers, has had a further damping effect on growth, swamping the cost of the relatively brief shutdown, economists said. Macroeconomic Advisers estimated the impact at about 0.7 percentage points of G.D.P. a year, equivalent to over $300 billion in lost output over the last three years. Additional cuts would slow the economy even more, economists say.
经济学家们还表示，以政府提供的产品和服务为主的减赤推进得异常迅速，而这样的步伐会进一步阻碍经济增长，让相对较短的政府停摆造成的损失相形见绌。宏观经济咨询公司估算，这种影响约为每年减少0.7个百分点的GDP，相当于过去三年损失3000亿美元的产出。经济学家们称，更多的减赤可能进一步拖经济的后腿。
“We are baffled by the idea that the pace of deficit reduction needs to be increased, given how rapidly the picture is improving already,” Ian Shepherdson, the chief economist of Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a note to clients.
“鉴于大势已迅速改善，那种应加快减赤步伐的想法让我们不解，”潘西恩宏观经济咨询公司(Pantheon Macroeconomics)的首席经济师伊恩·谢泼德森(Ian Shepherdson)在给客户的报告中写道。
The 16-day shutdown itself has already led to the biggest plunge in consumer confidence since the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008. Howard R. Levine, the chief executive of Family Dollar Stores, said his customers, most with modest incomes, had pulled back on spending this month. “The threat of the shutdown, the uncertainty regarding some of the government assistance that our consumers receive, the uncertainty around job growth are very real to our customer every day,” Mr. Levine said.
16天的停摆本身已造成2008年雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产以来消费者信心的最大跌幅。家万金百货(Family Dollar Stores)的客户大多收入不高，公司首席执行官霍华德·R·莱文(Howard R. Levine)表示，客户本月缩减了开支。“停摆的威胁、客户接受的部分政府援助的不确定性，加上就业增长方面的不确定性，对我们的客户而言，这些都是切肤之痛，”莱文说。
The damage to business has been intensified by the timing of the shutdown. “We’re in budget planning for 2014, so it casts a pall,” said John Selldorff, who runs the American operations of Legrand, a global manufacturer of electrical and data products based in France. “We are definitely pausing and being more careful.”
政府停摆发生的时间进一步加大了商家蒙受的损失。罗格朗(Legrand)是总部位于法国的国际电器与数据公司。负责其美国分公司运营的约翰·塞尔多夫(John Selldorff)说，“我们正在为2014年做预算，所以它造成了阴影。我们无疑是在观望，而且更加谨慎了。”
The impasse over the debt ceiling raised the United States’ short-term borrowing costs, with investors demanding triple the interest payments they received just a few weeks ago, in some cases. Concerns about the United States as a borrower may have a much longer and deeper effect than the shutdown, analysts say.
围绕着举债上限的僵局导致美国的短期举债成本上升，在某些情况下，投资者要求的利率三倍于几周前的实际水平。分析人士指出，外界对美国借贷的担忧，或许会带来比政府停摆久得多且深得多的影响。
“Even with a deal to avoid a default, the damage has been done by the fact that we have had a debate questioning whether the U.S. will pay back its debt,” Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of the money manager BlackRock, said Wednesday morning. That means higher borrowing costs in the United States and elsewhere.
周三上午，基金管理公司贝莱德(BlackRock)的首席执行官劳伦斯·D·芬克((Laurence D. Fink)说，“就算达成避免违约的协议，我们还是进行了美国是否有债必偿的讨论，光是这一事实就已经造成了损失。”这就意味着，美国及其他地方的举债成本都会升高。
While this fiscal impasse may be ending, many on Wall Street fear that Washington is not done.
此外，虽然本轮财政僵局或许是走向了尾声，但华尔街有不少人担心，华盛顿还没折腾完。
“Then we can come back some time in December, January and February,” said Brian Gardner of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a New York investment bank, “and do this all over again.”
来自纽约投行KBW(Keefe, Bruyette & Woods)的布莱恩·加德纳(Brian Gardner)说，“我们可能会在12月、1月、2月的什么时候回来，从头到尾再闹一次。”