KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — A North Korean diplomat suggested on Thursday that Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half brother of the country’s leader, died of heart failure despite Malaysia’s finding that he was killed by a banned nerve agent.
马来西亚吉隆坡——一名朝鲜外交官周四称，与朝鲜领导人关系疏远的同父异母哥哥金正男(Kim Jong-nam)死于心力衰竭，尽管马来西亚的调查结果显示他死于一种违禁神经毒剂。
The diplomat, Ri Tong-il, who is leading a delegation to Malaysia, made the surprising assertion in Kuala Lumpur, the capital, during a visit aimed at repairing a diplomatic breach over the death. He said Mr. Kim had a history of heart disease and high blood pressure for which he needed medication.
这位名为李东日(Ri Tong-Il)的外交官正在率团访问马来西亚，希望修复因为金正男之死而遭到破坏的两国外交关系。他是在马来西亚首都吉隆坡发表这番出人意料的言论的。他说，金正男有需要药物治疗的心脏病和高血压病史。
But while asserting the cause of Mr. Kim’s death, without providing any evidence, he stood by his country’s refusal to acknowledge that the victim was the half brother of Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, instead calling him by the name Kim Chol, which South Korean officials have said is an alias.
但在对金正男的死因下定论却未给出任何证据的同时，他遵循朝鲜的立场，拒绝承认遇害者是朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)同父异母的哥哥，而是用金哲(Kim Chol)这个名字称呼他。韩国官员称，金哲是化名。
He also called on Malaysia to provide samples of the VX nerve agent that the police say they found on the body to the international organization charged with carrying out the global treaty that bans the use of chemical weapons.
他还要求马来西亚向负责实施禁止使用化学武器全球公约的国际机构提交据称是警方在遗体上发现的VX神经毒剂的样本。
“If it is true that it was used,” he told reporters, “then the samples should be sent to the office” of the group, the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, for examination.
“如果真的用了它，”他对记者说，“则应将样本送去办公室”进行检查。这里指的是禁止化学武器组织(Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons)的办公室。
South Korea has accused the North of organizing the killing, and the Malaysian police have identified seven North Korean men they would like to question. North Korea has refused to allow the police to interview two of the suspects, who are said to have taken refuge at the embassy where Mr. Ri addressed reporters.
韩国指责朝鲜是这起谋杀的组织者，马来西亚警方已确定了他们想问讯的七名朝鲜男子。朝鲜拒绝允许警方问讯其中两名嫌疑人，据称他们就躲在李东日对记者发表讲话的大使馆里。
Four others are believed to have returned to North Korea, and the location of the last one is unknown. An eighth, the only North Korean citizen in Malaysian custody, is expected to be released for lack of evidence and deported, according to news reports.
另外四人据信已返回朝鲜，最后一人去向不明。据新闻报道称，第八个人，也就是唯一遭马来西亚关押的朝鲜公民，预计会因证据不足获释，并被驱逐出境。
Malaysia has not allowed North Korean officials to conduct their own examination of the body, despite their repeated demands that it be turned over to them.
马来西亚不允许朝鲜官员自己进行尸检，尽管对方多次要求将遗体交给他们。
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons has said that it is in close contact with the Malaysian authorities in the Kim case and that it has provided “some technical materials that they have requested to assist them with their internal investigation.”
禁止化学武器组织表示，在金正男的案子上，该机构与马来西亚当局有着密切的联系，它提供了“一些对方要求的技术材料，以协助他们进行内部调查。”
But the group declined to say whether Malaysia had provided it with samples for independent testing. Malaysian officials have also declined to comment.
但该组织拒绝透露马来西亚是否给它提供了样品，以便进行独立测试。马来西亚官员也拒绝置评。
In a statement on Wednesday, North Korea argued that any conclusion on the use of chemical weapons should be made “only on the basis of the identical results of analysis made by at least two specialist laboratories,” warning that “if some countries try to use it for other political purposes, the consequences will be beyond imagination.”
在周三发布的一项声明中，朝鲜表示，要得出任何有关化学武器使用的结论，“必须有至少两个专业实验室得出相同的分析结果”，还警告“如果有国家试图为其他政治目的利用它，后果将不可想象。”
The latest assertions came as Malaysia moved on Thursday to punish North Korea for the airport assassination of Mr. Kim, saying that it would require visitors from that country to obtain visas, the government said.
朝鲜发布这项声明的时机是在马来西亚于周四采取行动为金正男机场遇害一事对朝鲜进行惩罚之际。马来西亚政府表示，它将要求来自朝鲜的旅客申请签证。
Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, the deputy prime minister, imposed the restrictions effective this coming Monday, citing national security concerns. Until now, North Koreans have been able to enter Malaysia without a visa — one of the few places in the world that allowed such easy access for citizens of a country that is widely viewed as a pariah.
马来西亚副总理艾哈迈德·扎希德·哈米迪(Ahmad Zahid Hamidi)表示，这项限制将于下周一强制生效，原因是出于国家安全考虑。此前，朝鲜人一直可以免签进入马来西亚——世界上为数不多的允许一个普遍受唾弃的国家的公民如此轻易入境的地方。
About 1,000 North Koreans live and work in Malaysia, where they have been able to establish international companies and have access to the global banking system. But relations between the two nations have rapidly deteriorated since the killing of Mr. Kim and accusations that North Korea was behind it.
有大约1000名朝鲜人生活和工作在马来西亚，他们可以在那里创建国际公司，能接入全球银行系统。但是自金正男谋杀事件发生，而且朝鲜被指控为幕后主使后，两国的关系迅速恶化。
It was unclear whether the visa order would affect North Koreans who are already in Malaysia.
目前还不清楚这项签证要求是否会影响已经身在马来西亚的朝鲜人。