It’s well known by now that income and wealth inequality in most rich countries, especially the United States, have soared in recent decades and, tragically, worsened even more since the Great Recession. But what about the rest of the world? Is the gap between countries narrowing, as rising economic powers like China and India have lifted hundreds of millions of people from poverty? And within poor and middle-income countries, is inequality getting worse or better? Are we moving toward a more fair world, or a more unjust one?
众所周知，在多数富裕国家，特别是美国，收入及财富不平等的情况在近几十年急速恶化。不幸的是，这一现象自大衰退(Great Recession)以来更加严重。但是世界上其他地区情况怎么样呢？随着中国印度的经济发展使数亿人脱离贫困，国与国之间的这种差距是否缩小了呢？在贫穷和中等收入水平国家，不平等现象是有所改善还是更加严重呢？我们是在走向一个更加公平的世界，还是一个更不平等的世界呢？
These are complex questions, and new research by a World Bank economist named Branko Milanovic, along with other scholars, points the way to some answers.
这是一些复杂的问题，而世界银行(World Bank)经济学家布兰科·米拉诺维奇(Branko Milanovic)与其他学者共同进行的一项新研究为此提供了一些见解。
Starting in the 18th century, the industrial revolution produced giant wealth for Europe and North America. Of course, inequality within these countries was appalling — think of the textile mills of Liverpool and Manchester, England, in the 1820s, and the tenements of the Lower East Side of Manhattan and the South Side of Chicago in the 1890s — but the gap between the rich and the rest, as a global phenomenon, widened even more, right up through about World War II. To this day, inequality between countries is far greater than inequality within countries.
自18世纪以来，工业革命(Industrial Revolution)为欧洲及北美洲带来了巨大的财富。这些国家内部的不平等现象当然惊人——想想19世纪20年代英格兰利物浦和曼彻斯特的纺织工厂，再对比19世纪90年代曼哈顿下东城和芝加哥南城的高楼大厦——但作为一个全球现象，富国与其他国家之间的差距到二战前后进一步加大。到如今，国家间的不平等要远远超过国内的不平等。 
But starting around the fall of Communism in the late 1980s, economic globalization accelerated and the gap between nations began to shrink. The period from 1988 to 2008 “might have witnessed the first decline in global inequality between world citizens since the Industrial Revolution,” Mr. Milanovic, who was born in the former Yugoslavia and is the author of “The Haves and the Have-Nots: A Brief and Idiosyncratic History of Global Inequality,” wrote in a paper published last November. While the gap between some regions has markedly narrowed — namely, between Asia and the advanced economies of the West — huge gaps remain. Average global incomes, by country, have moved closer together over the last several decades, particularly on the strength of the growth of China and India. But overall equality across humanity, considered as individuals, has improved very little. (The Gini coefficient, a measurement of inequality, improved by just 1.4 points from 2002 to 2008.)So while nations in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America, as a whole, might be catching up with the West, the poor everywhere are left behind, even in places like China where they’ve benefited somewhat from rising living standards.
但自从20世纪80年代末共产主义崩塌，经济全球化步伐提速，国家间的差距开始缩小。1988年到2008年“可能见证了自工业革命以来世界公民间全球不平等程度的首次降低，”米拉诺维奇在去年11月出版的一篇论文中写道。他出生在前南斯拉夫，著有《富与贫：全球贫富差距简异史》(The Haves and the Have-Nots: A Brief and Idiosyncratic History of Global Inequality)。虽然一些地区间的差距在明显缩小——比如，亚洲和西方发达经济体之间的差距——巨大的鸿沟仍然存在。以国家为单位来计算，全球平均收入水平在过去几十年间，尤其是借助了中国和印度强劲的发展之势，已逐渐缩小差距。但从个体角度来看，人类整体的平等性却鲜有改善。（衡量不平等水平的基尼系数[Gini coefficient]从2002至2008年仅提高了1.4%。）因而，虽然说亚洲、中东和拉丁美洲地区的国家从整体上来说可能在逐步赶上西方水平，各地的贫穷人口仍被发展所遗忘，即便是在中国这样的国家，那里的贫穷人口已经受益于生活水平的提高。
From 1988 to 2008, Mr. Milanovic found, people in the world’s top 1 percent saw their incomes increase by 60 percent, while those in the bottom 5 percent had no change in their income. And while median incomes have greatly improved in recent decades, there are still enormous imbalances: 8 percent of humanity takes home 50 percent of global income; the top 1 percent alone takes home 15 percent. Income gains have been greatest among the global elite — financial and corporate executives in rich countries — and the great “emerging middle classes” of China, India, Indonesia and Brazil. Who lost out? Africans, some Latin Americans, and people in post-Communist Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, Mr. Milanovic found.
米拉诺维奇发现，自1988至2008年，世界人口中最富有的1%人群，他们的收入增加了60%，而最贫穷的5%，收入则毫无变化。在近几十年收入中位数得到了极大提高，而严重的不平衡现象仍然存在：8%的人得到了全球50%的收入；其中最富有的1%就得到了15%。收入提高幅度最大的是世界各地的精英阶层——富裕国家的金融和企业行政人员——以及大批中国、印度、印度尼西亚和巴西的“新兴中产阶级”。谁错过了这一切呢？米拉诺维奇发现，是生活在非洲、拉丁美洲一些地区以及前共产主义东欧和前苏联地区的人们。
The United States provides a particularly grim example for the world. And because, in so many ways, America often “leads the world,” if others follow America’s example, it does not portend well for the future.
美国更是一个反面教材。由于在许多方面，美国经常“引领世界”，如果其他人也仿效美国，那么未来情况不容乐观。
On the one hand, widening income and wealth inequality in America is part of a trend seen across the Western world. A 2011 study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development found that income inequality first started to rise in the late ’70s and early ’80s in America and Britain (and also in Israel). The trend became more widespread starting in the late ’80s. Within the last decade, income inequality grew even in traditionally egalitarian countries like Germany, Sweden and Denmark. With a few exceptions — France, Japan, Spain — the top 10 percent of earners in most advanced economies raced ahead, while the bottom 10 percent fell further behind.
一方面，美国不断加大的收入及财富差距代表了西方世界的潮流。经济合作与发展组织(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)2011年进行的一项研究发现，收入不平等现象在20世纪70年代末及80年代初的美国和英国（还有以色列）开始出现。这一趋势在80年代后期开始更加普遍。在过去10年间，收入不平等现象甚至在传统秉承平等主义的国家，如德国、瑞典和丹麦也有所增加。除个别国家以外——法国、日本、西班牙——多数发达经济体中10%收入最高人群赚得更多了，而排名收入最少的10%人群则愈加落后。
But the trend was not universal, or inevitable. Over these same years, countries like Chile, Mexico, Greece, Turkey and Hungary managed to reduce (in some cases very high) income inequality significantly, suggesting that inequality is a product of political and not merely macroeconomic forces. It is not true that inequality is an inevitable byproduct of globalization, the free movement of labor, capital, goods and services, and technological change that favors better-skilled and better-educated employees.
不过，这种趋势并不代表普遍真理，也不是不可避免的。同样在这些年，智利、墨西哥、希腊、土耳其和匈牙利等国大幅减少了收入不平等的现象（在其中一些国家，这种不平等的程度极严重），这表明，收入不平等不仅是宏观经济力量的产物，还是政治的产物。有人说不平等是全球化不可避免的副产品，是劳动力、资本、商品和服务自由流动的副产品，是偏爱技术更高、受过更好教育雇员的技术革新的副产品，这些话并不确实。
Of the advanced economies, America has some of the worst disparities in incomes and opportunities, with devastating macroeconomic consequences. The gross domestic product of the United States has more than quadrupled in the last 40 years and nearly doubled in the last 25, but as is now well known, the benefits have gone to the top — and increasingly to the very, very top.
在全球发达经济体中，美国出现了一些最极端的收入和机会差异，这种差异在宏观经济领域引发了致命性后果。过去40年里，美国的国内生产总值已经增长了四倍多，在过去25年里，则几近翻了一番，然而，如今众所周知的是，其中的利益都归于最高收入人群了，而且，这种利益越来越集中于最高收入人群中的最富有人群。
Last year, the top 1 percent of Americans took home 22 percent of the nation’s income; the top 0.1 percent, 11 percent. Ninety-five percent of all income gains since 2009 have gone to the top 1 percent. Recently released census figures show that median income in America hasn’t budged in almost a quarter-century. The typical American man makes less than he did 45 years ago (after adjusting for inflation); men who graduated from high school but don’t have four-year college degrees make almost 40 percent less than they did four decades ago.
去年，美国最富有的1%人口得到了全国22%的收入；最富有的千分之一人口得到了11%的收入。美国自2009年以来增加的所有收入，有95%都流向了1%最富有的群体。最近公布的人口调查数据显示，美国的收入中位数已几乎有25年没变动过了。普通美国男性的收入（在扣除通胀因素之后）比45年前要低；高中毕业，但没有获得四年制本科学位的美国男性，比40年前拥有同等学历的美国男性少挣近40%。
American inequality began its upswing 30 years ago, along with tax decreases for the rich and the easing of regulations on the financial sector. That’s no coincidence. It has worsened as we have under-invested in our infrastructure, education and health care systems, and social safety nets. Rising inequality reinforces itself by corroding our political system and our democratic governance.
30年前，美国人的收入不平等开始逐渐加大，与之相伴的是富人的税收削减，和对金融机构的监管放松。这不是巧合。随着我们削减对基础设施、教育、医疗和社会保障网络的投入，这种不平等加剧了。不断上升的不平等侵蚀了我们的政治体制和民主治理，继而又加剧了不平等。
And Europe seems all too eager to follow America’s bad example. The embrace of austerity, from Britain to Germany, is leading to high unemployment, falling wages and increasing inequality. Officials like Angela Merkel, the newly re-elected German chancellor, and Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, argue that Europe’s problems are a result of a bloated welfare spending. But that line of thinking has only taken Europe into recession (and even depression). That things may have bottomed out — that the recession may be “officially” over — is little comfort to the 27 million out of a job in the E.U. On both sides of the Atlantic, the austerity fanatics say, march on: these are the bitter pills that we need to take to achieve prosperity. But prosperity for whom?
欧洲似乎急不可耐地想要重蹈美国的覆辙。从英国到德国，奉行财政紧缩政策正导致欧洲失业人数高企不下、工资不断下滑、收入不平等日渐加大。近日获得连任的德国总理安格拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel)和欧洲央行(European Central Bank)行长马里奥·德拉吉(Mario Draghi)等官员认为，欧洲的问题是庞大的福利开支造成的。可是，这种思路只是把欧洲带入了经济衰退（甚至是萧条）。对欧盟内的2700万失业者而言，经济也许已经见底——即衰退也许已经“正式”结束——算不上是什么慰藉。在大西洋的两岸，痴迷于紧缩政策的观点还在大行其道：要取得繁荣，我们就得吞下这些苦涩的药丸。可是这是谁的繁荣？
Excessive financialization — which helps explain Britain’s dubious status as the second-most-unequal country, after the United States, among the world’s most advanced economies — also helps explain the soaring inequality. In many countries, weak corporate governance and eroding social cohesion have led to increasing gaps between the pay of chief executives and that of ordinary workers — not yet approaching the 500-to-1 level for America’s biggest companies (as estimated by the International Labor Organization) but still greater than pre-recession levels. (Japan, which has curbed executive pay, is a notable exception.) American innovations in rent-seeking — enriching oneself not by making the size of the economic pie bigger but by manipulating the system to seize a larger slice — have gone global.
在世界最发达经济体中，英国被称为仅次于美国的第二最不平等国家，而过度金融化要为它这样的坏名声承担一定责任，它也同样要为日益严重的不平等现象负责。在许多国家，不得力的公司治理和日渐消失的社会凝聚力，已让首席执行官和普通员工之间的收入差距越来越大，（按国际劳工组织[International Labor Organization]的估计），美国规模最大的公司中，这一比率为500比1，尽管许多国家的这种差距还没有接近这一数字，但是依然要比经济衰弱前的差距级别要大得多。（已经限制高管薪资的日本是一个引人注目的例外。）美国人在寻租方面的创新已传播到全球各地：致富不是靠把经济馅饼的尺寸做大，而是靠操控制度来攫取更大的份额。
Asymmetric globalization has also exerted its toll around the globe. Mobile capital has demanded that workers make wage concessions and governments make tax concessions. The result is a race to the bottom. Wages and working conditions are being threatened. Pioneering firms like Apple, whose work relies on enormous advances in science and technology, many of them financed by government, have also shown great dexterity in avoiding taxes. They are willing to take, but not to give back.
不均衡的全球化还将恶果带到了全球。流动的资本迫使工人在工资上做出让步，迫使政府在税收上让步。结果导致了竞次。工资和工作环境受到威胁。苹果(Apple)等开创性公司的业绩有赖于巨大的科技进步，其中的许多进步都由政府资助，这些公司在避税方面也显示了巨大的灵活性。它们愿意索取，而不是回馈。
Inequality and poverty among children are a special moral disgrace. They flout right-wing suggestions that poverty is a result of laziness and poor choices; children can’t choose their parents. In America, nearly one in four children lives in poverty; in Spain and Greece, about one in six; in Australia, Britain and Canada, more than one in 10. None of this is inevitable. Some countries have made the choice to create more equitable economies: South Korea, where a half-century ago just one in 10 people attained a college degree, today has one of the world’s highest university completion rates.
儿童中的不平等和贫穷是一种特殊的道德耻辱。他们的存在是对右翼所说的贫穷是懒惰和选择不慎的结果的一种蔑视；儿童无法选择他们的父母。在美国，每四名儿童之中，就有近一名儿童生活在贫困中；在西班牙和希腊，这个比例大约是六比一；在澳大利亚、英国和加拿大，每十名儿童之中就有超过一名生活在贫困中。这些贫困没有哪一种是不可避免的。一些国家已经做出选择来创造更平等的经济制度，半个世纪前，每10位韩国人里，只有一位拥有大学文凭，今天，韩国的大学毕业率在全球名列前茅。
For these reasons, I see us entering a world divided not just between the haves and have-nots, but also between those countries that do nothing about it, and those that do. Some countries will be successful in creating shared prosperity — the only kind of prosperity that I believe is truly sustainable. Others will let inequality run amok. In these divided societies, the rich will hunker in gated communities, almost completely separated from the poor, whose lives will be almost unfathomable to them, and vice versa. I’ve visited societies that seem to have chosen this path. They are not places in which most of us would want to live, whether in their cloistered enclaves or their desperate shantytowns.
因为这些原因，我认为我们正在进入一个分化的世界，这种分化不仅体现在富人和穷人之间，而且还体现在出手干预分化的国家和袖手旁观分化的国家之间。一些国家将在创造共同繁荣方面取得成功，我认为，这是唯一一种真正可持续的繁荣。其他国家会让不平等现象肆意泛滥。在这些分化的社会里，富人会守在封闭式社区里，几乎和穷人完全分开，穷人的生活对他们而言几乎是无法理解的，反之亦然。我曾经探访过看似已经选择了这条道路的社会。不管是在它与世隔绝的富人区也好，还是令人绝望的棚户区也罢，这种社会，都不是我们中的多数人想要生活的地方。