Poverty is an exam room familiar. From Bellevue Hospital in New York to the neighborhood health center in Boston where I used to work, poverty has filtered through many of my interactions with parents and their children.
贫困问题是诊察室里的常客。从纽约的表维医院(Bellevue Hospital)到波士顿的社区卫生服务中心，我在工作中与家长及其子女交流时，经常会遭遇贫困相关的问题。
I ask about sleeping arrangements. Mother, father, older child and new baby live in one bedroom that they’re renting in an apartment, worrying that if the baby cries too much, they’ll be asked to leave.
我曾询问人们对睡眠的安排。而这家人租住在公寓楼里，父母、大孩子和新生婴儿挤在一间卧室里，他们说怕宝宝总是哭，房东会要求他们搬出去。
I encourage an overweight 9-year-old who loves karate, and his mother says, “We had to stop; too expensive.” I talk to a new mother who is going back to work too soon, leaving her baby with the cheapest sitter she can find.
我对一名喜欢空手道的超重的9岁儿童大加鼓励，但他的母亲说：“我们没办法让他继续学下去了；太贵！”我也曾与一名新妈妈交谈过，她因为急于回去工作，而不得不把她的宝宝留给她所能找到的最廉价的保姆照顾。
Is your housing situation secure? Can you afford groceries? Do you go with the cheapest fast food? Can you get the prescription filled? Raising children in poverty means that everything is more complicated.
你的居住环境是否安全？你能否承担购买副食品所需的花销？你是否经常吃最便宜的快餐？你能否按处方买药？……在贫困的环境中抚养孩子意味着所有的事情都更加复杂。
Me, I’m one generation out. My mother will tell you about her Depression childhood, the social worker who checked the family’s pots to see whether they were secretly able to afford meat, the landlord who put the furniture out on the street. It wasn’t character-building or noble, she says. It was soul-destroying, grinding and cruel.
我本人属于刚刚摆脱贫困的第一代人。但如果您问起我的母亲，她会向您讲述她的灰暗童年：社工一再检查家里的盆盆罐罐，查看他们是否还有私房钱买肉吃；房东会把家具全扔到大街上去。这种生活根本不是什么崇高的“天将降大任”的人格培养过程，她说，这是足以摧毁灵魂的残忍折磨。
And it’s even crueller, now that social mobility has decreased and children who grow up poor are more likely to stay poor.
而更加残酷的现实是，由于社会流动性的下降，在贫困中长大的儿童更容易继续生活在贫困中。
At the annual meeting of the Pediatric Academic Societies last week, there was a new call for pediatricians to address childhood poverty as a national problem, rather than wrestling with its consequences case by case in the exam room.
在上周的美国儿科学术学会(Pediatric Academic Societies)年会上，人们呼吁儿科医生将解决儿童贫困作为国家问题来对待，而不是在诊察室中为逐一应付其后果而焦头烂额。
Poverty damages children’s dispositions and blunts their brains. We’ve seen articles about the language deficit in poorer homes and the gaps in school achievement. These remind us that — more so than in my mother’s generation — poverty in this country is now likely to define many children’s life trajectories in the harshest terms: poor academic achievement, high dropout rates, and health problems from obesity and diabetes to heart disease, substance abuse and mental illness.
贫困会影响儿童的性格，使他们的大脑变得迟钝。目前已有文章称，贫困家庭的儿童容易出现语言功能缺陷，他们的学业成绩也与普通儿童存在差距。这些都在提醒我们，在这个国家中，贫困可能注定许多儿童的生活轨迹与最苛刻的境遇结缘：学业成绩不佳、辍学率较高、从肥胖和糖尿病到心脏病等各种健康问题、药物滥用和精神疾病等——其严重程度甚至更甚于我母亲那一代。
Recently, there has been a lot of focus on the idea of toxic stress, in which a young child’s body and brain may be damaged by too much exposure to so-called stress hormones, like cortisol and norepinephrine. When this level of stress is experienced at an early age, and without sufficient protection, it may actually reset the neurological and hormonal systems, permanently affecting children’s brains and even, we are learning, their genes.
最近，人们对“毒性应激”这一观点给予了很多关注。该观点认为，如果幼儿的身体和脑部过多地暴露于所谓的“应激激素”（如皮质醇和去甲肾上腺素）中，它们可能会受到损伤。我们还发现，当人们在童年经历这种等级的应激且没有得到充足的保护时，这些经历很可能会改变他们的神经和内分泌系统，永久地影响他们的大脑，甚至基因。
Toxic stress is the heavy hand of early poverty, scripting a child’s life not in the Horatio Alger scenario of determination and drive, but in the patterns of disappointment and deprivation that shape a life of limitations.
毒性应激是童年贫困的一记重击，它将儿童的生命历程推离了霍雷肖·阿尔杰(Horatio Alger)的那种凭着决心和干劲就可以白手起家的美国梦剧本，堕入失望和穷困潦倒这种处处碰壁的模式。
At the meeting, my colleague Dr. Benard P. Dreyer, professor of pediatrics at New York University and a past president of the Academic Pediatric Association, called on pediatricians to take on poverty as a serious underlying threat to children’s health. He was prompted, he told me later, by the widening disparities between rich and poor, and the gathering weight of evidence about the importance of early childhood, and the ways that deprivation and stress in the early years of life can reduce the chances of educational and life success.
在这次会议上，我的同事、纽约大学(New York University)儿科学教授、美国儿科学术学会前任会长贝纳尔·P·德雷尔(Benard P. Dreyer)博士呼吁，儿科医生应将贫困作为儿童健康潜在的严重威胁来对待。稍后，他还告诉我，此举受到了多种因素的推动：贫富差距日益扩大，越来越多的证据表明了幼儿期的重要性，童年的贫困和应激可减少获得教育和人生成功的机会等。
“After the first three, four, five years of life, if you have neglected that child’s brain development, you can’t go back,” he said. In the middle of the 20th century, our society made a decision to take care of the elderly, once the poorest demographic group in the United States. Now, with Medicare and Social Security, only 9 percent of older people live in poverty. Children are now our poorest group, with almost 25 percent of children under 5 living below the federal poverty level.
“在儿童3、4岁或5岁后，受到忽视的大脑发育将再也不可逆转，”德雷尔博士指出。20世纪中叶，我们的社会曾做出了一项决策，即确保老有所养。老年人曾经是美国最贫困的人群，现在，随着医疗保险和社会福利保障的建立和健全，仅有9%的老年人仍然生活穷困。儿童已经取而代之成为目前最贫困的人群，据统计，有近25%的5岁以下儿童生活在联邦贫困线之下。
When Tony Blair became prime minister of Britain, amid growing socioeconomic disparities, he made it a national goal to cut child poverty in half in 10 years. It took a coalition of political support and a combination of measures that increased income, especially in families with young children (minimum wage, paid maternity and paternity leaves, tax credits), and better services — especially universal preschool programs. By 2010, reducing child poverty had become a goal across the British political spectrum, and child poverty had fallen to 10.6 percent of children below the absolute poverty line (similar to the measure used in the United States), down from 26.1 percent in 1999.
当托尼·布莱尔(Tony Blair)成为英国首相后，日趋扩大的社会经济差距促使他制定了一项国家目标：在10年内将儿童贫困程度减半。该举措结合了多项政治支持和可增加收入的措施（特别针对了家有幼儿的家庭，如最低工资、带薪产假和陪产假、税收抵免等），并改善了服务，尤其普及了学前教育计划。在2010年之前，降低儿童贫困水平已成为整个英国政治光谱的目标之一，且处于绝对贫困线（与美国使用的类似的指标）以下的贫困儿童比例已从1999年的26.1%下降至10.6%。
“Poor families who benefited from the reform were able to spend more money on items for children: books and toys, children’s clothing and footwear, fresh fruits and vegetables,” said Jane Waldfogel, a professor of social work at Columbia who has studied the British war on childhood poverty.
“受益于这项改革的贫困家庭将有更多的钱来满足孩子的需求：书本和玩具、童装和童鞋、新鲜的水果和蔬菜等，”哥伦比亚大学的社会工作学教授简·沃德佛格(Jane Waldfogel)表示。她的研究课题就是英国对抗儿童贫困的战役。
Dr. Dreyer said: “Income matters. You get people above the poverty level, and they actually are better parents. It’s critical to get people out of poverty, but in addition our focus has to be on also giving families supports for other aspects of their lives — parenting, interventions in primary care, universal preschool.”
德雷尔博士也指出：“收入至关重要。如果你能将人们的生活改善至贫困线之上，他们的确会成为更称职的父母。这对于使人们摆脱贫困十分关键。但除此之外，我们也必须注重对他们生活的其他方面——父母教养、初级医疗保健干预、普及学前教育等提供家庭支持。”
At the Pediatric Academic Societies meeting, the most unexpected speaker — to a room full of pediatricians — was Robert H. Dugger, managing partner of Hanover Investment Group, who made the economic case for investing in young children. “History shows that productivity increases when people are able to access their rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness,” Mr. Dugger told me. “There is no economic recovery strategy stronger than committing to early childhood and K-through-12 investment.”
在儿科学术学会的会议上，面对满满一屋子的儿科医生，最令人意想不到的讲演者是美国汉诺威投资公司(Hanover Investment Group)的管理合伙人罗伯特·H·达格(Robert H. Dugger)。他认为，对幼儿进行投资具有经济效益。“历史表明，当人们可以享受生命权、自由权并追求幸福时，生产率就会提高，”达格先生告诉我，“任何经济复苏战略都不会比致力于幼儿及幼儿园到12年级(K-12)的投资更为强效。”
Think for a moment of poverty as a disease, thwarting growth and development, robbing children of the healthy, happy futures they might otherwise expect. In the exam room, we try to mitigate the pain and suffering that are its pernicious symptoms. But our patients’ well-being depends on more, on public health measures and prevention that lift the darkness so all children can grow toward the light.
让我们将贫困设想为一种疾病，它阻碍了儿童的生长发育，剥夺了他们的健康以及原本可以期待的美好未来，使儿童备受痛苦和折磨。在诊察室中，我们试图缓解这些疾病的有害症状。但是，患者的福利更多地依赖于公共卫生措施以及预防手段来驱除黑暗，使所有的儿童都能向着光明成长。