JAKARTA, Indonesia — Joko Widodo, the governor of Jakarta whose common touch has made him a political phenomenon, was declared the winner of Indonesia’s presidential election on Tuesday, completing an improbable ascent from child of the slums to leader of the world’s fourth most populous nation.
印尼雅加达——雅加达省长佐科·威多多(Joko Widodo)平易近人的作风，让他在政界平步青云。本周二，印尼总统选举委员会宣布他赢得了大选，佐科也由此完成了一个奇迹般的蜕变：从一个来自贫民窟的孩子，成为了全球第四人口大国的领导者。
But the announcement, while widely expected, did not end a simmering controversy. His opponent, Prabowo Subianto, a retired army general, rejected the results as fraudulent and said he was withdrawing from the race.
虽然这则消息符合人们的普遍预期，但它并没有就此结束一个正在发酵的争议。佐科的竞争对手、退役将军普拉博沃·苏比亚恩托(Prabowo Subianto)拒绝承认选举结果，宣称选举过程中存在舞弊行为，并表示他将退出竞选。
The General Elections Commission announced that Mr. Joko, with 53 percent of the vote, had beaten Mr. Prabowo, with 47 percent. Nearly 135 million Indonesians cast ballots in the emotionally charged July 9 election, in which voters chose a new president for the first time in 10 years.
总选举委员会宣布，佐科的得票率为53%，击败了得票率为47%的普拉博沃。在7月9日那场牵动公众情绪的选举中，近1.35亿印尼人投出选票，这是选民们十年来首次有机会选举一位新的总统。
There was a huge police presence at the commission’s offices in Jakarta, the Indonesian capital, on Tuesday as the vote tabulations were completed, amid rumors of violent street demonstrations by disappointed supporters of Mr. Prabowo.
本周二完成计票的时候，印尼首都雅加达在该委员会的办公室周围部署了大量警力，因为有传闻说，普拉博沃的支持者们在失望之余，将上街进行暴力示威。
As the elections commission was finishing its count and preparing to announce Mr. Joko as the winner, representatives of Mr. Prabowo’s campaign staged a walkout at the commission’s offices. Shortly afterward, Mr. Prabowo read an impassioned statement to supporters at his campaign headquarters, saying he had withdrawn his candidacy and would reject the results.
选举委员会的计票工作临近尾声，准备宣布佐科胜出的时候，普拉博沃的竞选团队成员在该委员会的办公室上演了一出退席活动。紧接着，普拉博沃在他的竞选总部向支持者们发表了慷慨激昂的声明，他说，他已撤回了自己的候选人资格，并将拒绝承认选举结果。
“There has been a massive, structured and systematic fraud,” he said.
“这次选举中存在着巨大的、结构性的、系统化的舞弊行为，”他说。
But on Tuesday night, his brother and chief adviser, Hashim Djojohadikusumo, said Mr. Prabowo had not in fact withdrawn his candidacy, but was instead demanding additional time for the elections commission to investigate “serious problems” in both ballot casting and vote tabulations.
但在周二晚上，他的兄弟兼首席顾问哈希姆·约约哈迪库苏莫(Hashim Djojohadikusumo)说，普拉博沃其实并没有撤回候选人资格，只是要求选举委员会再花些时间来调查投票和计票过程中的“严重问题”。
Commission officials, however, rejected his campaign’s allegations and said a candidate’s withdrawal would have no bearing on the results.
但是该委员会的官员们驳回了他对竞选活动的指责，并表示，候选人退出对选举结果没有影响。
Mr. Hashim said Mr. Prabowo’s campaign team had not yet decided whether to appeal the election results to the Indonesian Constitutional Court.
哈希姆说，普拉博沃的竞选团队还没有决定，是否要将选举结果诉至印尼宪法法院(Indonesian Constitutional Court)。
“We want the K.P.U. to take a serious look at these irregularities,” Mr. Hashim said, referring to the elections commission by its Indonesian abbreviation.
“我们希望KPU认真调查一下这些违规行为，”哈希姆说。KPU是“选举委员会”的印尼语缩写。
The Constitutional Court has the sole authority to order recounts or new voting at the provincial level and below, and its decisions are binding. The court has two weeks to issue any decision should there be an appeal. But analysts said it was highly unlikely that any ruling would overturn the final national result, given the eight-million-vote margin of Mr. Joko’s victory.
宪法法院是唯一有权下令对省级及以下级别的选举进行重新计票或投票的机构，其决定具有约束力。如果接到上诉，该法院有两周的时间来进行裁决。但分析师人士说，鉴于佐科拥有800万票的领先优势，法院几乎不可能做出推翻这次全国性选举结果的裁决。
What amounted to declarations of victory by both camps hours after the polls closed led to weeks of uncertainty as the commission tabulated votes from more than 480,000 polling stations. Mr. Joko is to be sworn in Oct. 20. He has pledged to bring more “people-centric” governance and policies to Indonesia, which, despite being a member of the G-20 group of major economies, has more than 100 million people living on $2 a day or less.
在投票结束后的数小时内，两个阵营都曾宣称自己获得胜利，所以此后的数周中，在选举委员会统计逾48万个投票站选票的时候，结果并不明朗。佐科将在10月20日宣誓就职。他承诺将给印尼带来更加“以人为本”的治理方式和政策。该国虽然是由主要经济体组成的G20集团的成员，但还有逾1亿人每天的生活支出不足2美元（约合人民币12元）。
The victory represents a striking rise for Mr. Joko, 53, who was born and raised in a riverside slum area in the city of Surakarta, also known as Solo, in Central Java Province. He grew up to be a carpenter and later a furniture exporter before entering politics in 2005. He was twice elected mayor of his hometown, then governor of Jakarta in 2012.
这场胜利彰显了佐科备受瞩目的崛起，53岁的佐科出生在中爪哇省梭罗市靠近河边的一个贫民区，从小学习木匠手艺，在2005年从政之前，他是一个家具出口商。佐科两次当选家乡城市的市长，并在2012年当选为雅加达的省长。
Mr. Joko, a thin, unassuming figure with what he has described as a typical “village face,” will be Indonesia’s seventh president and the first not to have emerged from the country’s political elite or to have been an army general.
佐科身材瘦削，不摆架子，自称长着一张典型的“乡村脸”。他将成为印尼第七任总统，成为该国第一位既不是出身于政治精英集团，也没有担任过将军的总统。
Mr. Prabowo, 62, was a son-in-law of Suharto, the authoritarian president who was forced to resign in 1998 after 32 years in power amid pro-democracy street demonstrations. Mr. Prabowo, a successful businessman who comes from a prominent Javanese political family, has a checkered military record, including allegations of human rights abuses as a commander of Indonesia’s Special Forces and later as head of the army’s strategic reserve command. He was denied a visa to enter the United States in 2000 and is believed to be on an unofficial blacklist.
62岁的普拉博沃是苏哈托(Suharto)的女婿，苏哈托是一位掌权32年之久的独裁总统，在1998年的民主示威游行中被迫辞职。普拉博沃是一个成功的商人，来自一个著名的爪哇政治世家，其从军经历并不完美，曾在担任印尼特种部队司令期间遭受侵犯人权的指控，后来他成为军队战略后备司令部的负责人。2000年，美国拒绝了他的入境签证；据信他被列入了一张非官方的黑名单。