ALTHOUGH professionals may bemoan their long work hours and high-pressure careers, really, there’s stress, and then there’s Stress with a capital “S.” The former can be considered a manageable if unpleasant part of life; in the right amount, it may even strengthen one’s mettle. The latter kills.
尽管职业人士可能会哀叹自己工作时间长，事业压力大，但他们面临的，只是一般意义上的压力(stress)，还有另一种压力（首字母大写的Stress，作为心理学名词通常译为“应激”——译注）。前一种可以被认为是能控制的、尽管令人不愉快的生活的一部分；如果适度的话，那种压力甚至可能会增强一个人的勇气。而后一种则能导致死亡。
What’s the difference? Scientists have settled on an oddly subjective explanation: the more helpless one feels when facing a given stressor, they argue, the more toxic that stressor’s effects.
不同之处在哪里呢？科学家找到的解释具有不可思议的主观性，他们提出，当面对一个应激源时，一个人越觉得无助，该应激源的影响就越有害。
That sense of control tends to decline as one descends the socioeconomic ladder, with potentially grave consequences. Those on the bottom are more than three times as likely to die prematurely as those at the top. They’re also more likely to suffer from depression, heart disease and diabetes. Perhaps most devastating, the stress of poverty early in life can have consequences that last into adulthood.
这种掌控感往往会随着人的社会经济地位的降低而减少，随之而来的是可能的严重后果。社会经济地位最低的人过早死亡的几率，是社会经济地位最高的人的三倍多。地位低的人也更可能患抑郁症、心脏病和糖尿病。或许最具毁灭性的是，小时候体验了贫困应激的人，其后果可能会延续到成年时期。
Even those who later ascend economically may show persistent effects of early-life hardship. Scientists find them more prone to illness than those who were never poor. Becoming more affluent may lower the risk of disease by lessening the sense of helplessness and allowing greater access to healthful resources like exercise, more nutritious foods and greater social support; people are not absolutely condemned by their upbringing. But the effects of early-life stress also seem to linger, unfavorably molding our nervous systems and possibly even accelerating the rate at which we age.
即便是那些后来经济地位上升的人，可能也会显露出早年生活艰辛留下的持续后果。科学家发现，他们比那些从未受过穷的人更容易生病。变得更富有或许会降低患病的风险，因为这可以减轻那种无助感，同时让人获得更多的有益健康的资源，比如锻炼、更有营养的食物、更多的社会支持；人们不会绝对地受制于出身。但人生早期的应激影响似乎很持久，给塑造我们的神经系统带来不利，甚至可能还会加速我们的衰老。
The British epidemiologist Michael Marmot calls the phenomenon “status syndrome.” He’s studied British civil servants who work in a rigid hierarchy for decades, and found that accounting for the usual suspects — smoking, diet and access to health care — won’t completely abolish the effect. There’s a direct relationship among health, well-being and one’s place in the greater scheme. “The higher you are in the social hierarchy,” he says, “the better your health.”
英国流行病学家迈克尔·马尔莫特(Michael Marmot)把这种现象称为“地位综合征”(status syndrome)。他研究了在英国森严的等级制度里工作了数十载的公职人员，发现考虑了常见因素，比如吸烟、饮食和获得卫生保健服务等方面的不同后，仍不能彻底消除这种影响。在健康水平、幸福感以及人生大舞台上的地位之间，存在一种直接的联系。他说，“人在社会等级中的地位越高，就越健康。”
Dr. Marmot blames a particular type of stress. It’s not necessarily the strain of a chief executive facing a lengthy to-do list, or a well-to-do parent’s agonizing over a child’s prospects of acceptance to an elite school. Unlike those of lower rank, both the C.E.O. and the anxious parent have resources with which to address the problem. By definition, the poor have far fewer.
马尔莫特将其归咎于一个特定类型的应激。不一定是首席执行官面对一份份长长的工作计划表、或是家境富裕的家长为孩子是否能被名校录取犯愁时所感受到的压力。与地位更低的人不同，首席执行官和焦虑的家长都有资源来帮助他们对付所面临的问题。但穷人，顾名思义，是没有多少资源的。
So the stress that kills, Dr. Marmot and others argue, is characterized by a lack of a sense of control over one’s fate. Psychologists who study animals call one result of this type of strain “learned helplessness.”
因此，马尔莫特和其他一些人提出，能导致死亡的应激的特点是，缺乏对自己命运的掌控感。研究动物的心理学家称这种类型的应激后果之一是“习得性无助”。
How they induce it is instructive. Indiscriminate electric shocks will send an animal into a kind of depression, blunting its ability to learn and remember. But if the animal has some control over how long the shocks last, it remains resilient. Pain and unpleasantness matter less than having some control over their duration.
动物是如何被诱导出这种“习得性无助”的，对我们有启发意义。对动物进行任意电击会让其陷入一种沮丧的状态，削弱它的学习和记忆能力。但如果动物能在一定程度上控制电击的持续时间，它仍能保持适应力。能在一定程度上控制痛苦和不悦的持续时间，使痛苦和不悦变得不那么难以承受。
Biologists explain the particulars as a fight-or-flight response — adrenaline pumping, heart rate elevated, blood pressure increased — that continues indefinitely. This reaction is necessary for escaping from lions, bears and muggers, but when activated chronically it wears the body ragged. And it’s especially unhealthy for children, whose nervous systems are, by evolutionary design, malleable.
生物学家把这种后果具体解释为一种无限期持续的“战逃”反应：肾上腺素大量分泌、心率加快、血压升高。这种反应对逃避狮子、熊和劫匪是必要的，但如果长期处于这种应激状态，会让身体消耗过多。这种反应尤其不利于儿童的健康，因为演化本身决定了儿童神经系统具有很强的可塑性。
Scientists can, in fact, see the imprint of early-life stress decades later: there are more markers of inflammation in those who have experienced such hardship. Chronic inflammation increases the risk of degenerative diseases like heart disease and diabetes. Indeed, telomeres — the tips of our chromosomes — appear to be shorter among those who have experienced early-life adversity, which might be an indicator of accelerated aging. And scientists have found links, independent of current income, between early-life poverty and a higher risk of heart disease, high blood pressure and arthritis in adulthood.
事实上，科学家能在几十年后看到早年生活应激的印记：在经历过艰辛的人身上，炎症标志物更多。慢性炎症会增加患退化性疾病比如心脏病和糖尿病的风险。的确，早年经历过逆境的人的端粒（位于我们染色体终端的东西）似乎更短一些，这可能是加速衰老的一种标志。而且，科学家还发现，早年的贫穷与成年后更容易患心脏病、高血压和关节炎有关联，这种关联不受目前收入的影响。
“Early-life stress and the scar tissue that it leaves, with every passing bit of aging, gets harder and harder to reverse,” says Robert Sapolsky, a neurobiologist at Stanford. “You’re never out of luck in terms of interventions, but the longer you wait, the more work you’ve got on your hands.”
“每衰老一点，早年生活应激及其留下的瘢痕组织就会变得越来越难以逆转，”斯坦福大学(Stanford University)的神经生物学家罗伯特·萨波尔斯基(Robert Sapolsky)说，“就医学干预而言，你永远不会毫无办法，但等得越久，你需要解决的问题也就越多。”
This research has cast new light on racial differences in longevity. In the United States, whites live longer on average by about five years than African-Americans. But a 2012 study by a Princeton researcher calculated that socioeconomic and demographic factors, not genetics, accounted for 70 to 80 percent of that difference. The single greatest contributor was income, which explained more than half the disparity. Other studies, meanwhile, suggest that the subjective experience of racism by African-Americans — a major stressor — appears to have effects on health. Reports of discrimination correlate with visceral fat accumulation in women, which increases the risk of metabolic syndrome (and thus the risk of heart disease and diabetes). In men, they correlate with high blood pressure and cardiovascular disease.
该研究让人们对不同种族在寿命上的差异有了新的认识。在美国，白人比非洲裔美国人平均多活约五年。但普林斯顿大学(Princeton University)的一名研究人员在2012年曾做过计算，他发现社会经济和人口因素，而非遗传因素，能解释这种差异的70%到80%。其中，影响最大的因素是收入，它对寿命差异的影响超过50%。与此同时，其他一些研究表明，非洲裔美国人对种族歧视（这是一种重要的应激源）的主观经历看起来对健康有影响。在女性中，自我报告的歧视经历与内脏脂肪积累有关联，内脏脂肪积累会增加代谢综合征（以及由此引发的心脏病和糖尿病）的风险。在男性中，与这类报告相关联的是高血压和心血管疾病。
Race aside, Bruce McEwen, a neuroscientist at Rockefeller University in New York, describes these relationships as one way that “poverty gets under the skin.” He and others talk about the “biological embedding” of social status. Your parents’ social standing and your stress level during early life change how your brain and body work, affecting your vulnerability to degenerative disease decades later. They may even alter your vulnerability to infection. In one study, scientists at Carnegie Mellon exposed volunteers to a common cold virus. Those who’d grown up poorer (measured by parental homeownership) not only resisted the virus less effectively, but also suffered more severe cold symptoms.
撇开种族而言，纽约洛克菲勒大学(Rockefeller University)的神经科学家布鲁斯·麦克尤恩(Bruce McEwen)把这些关联称作是一种“贫穷造成的心理之痛”。他和其他一些人提出社会地位的“生物嵌入”问题。你父母的社会地位和早年间受到的应激水平，改变你的大脑和身体的运作方式，影响你几十年后对退化性疾病的易感程度。在一项研究中，卡内基梅隆大学(Carnegie MellonUniversity)的科学家让志愿者接触一种普通感冒病毒。那些成长环境更贫穷的人（以父母是否拥有房产为衡量标准）不仅抵御病毒的能力更弱，而且所患感冒的症状也更严重。
Peter Gianaros, a neuroscientist at the University of Pittsburgh, is interested in heart disease. He found that college students who viewed their parents as having low social status reacted more strongly to images of angry faces, as measured by the reactivity of the amygdala — an almond-shaped area of the brain that coordinates the fear response. Over a lifetime, he suspects, a harder, faster response to threats may contribute to the formation of arterial plaques. Dr. Gianaros also found that, among a group of 48 women followed for about 20 years, higher reports of stress correlated with a reduction in the volume of the hippocampus, a brain region important for learning and memory. In animals, chronic stress shrinks this area, and also hinders the ability to learn.
匹兹堡大学(University of Pittsburgh)的神经科学家彼得·贾纳罗斯(Peter Gianaros)对心脏病感兴趣。他发现，自认为父母社会地位低的大学生，对愤怒表情的反应更强烈，这是以杏仁核的反应为衡量标准的，杏仁核是大脑中一个杏仁形状的区域，它协调对恐惧的反应。他猜测，在人的一生中，对威胁的更强、更快的反应，可能对动脉斑块的形成有贡献。贾纳罗斯还发现，在对48名女性追踪了约20年后，她们中报告应激次数多的，与其海马体的体积缩小有关联，海马体是大脑中对学习和记忆很重要的区域。在动物身上，慢性应激会让这个区域缩小，也影响学习能力。
These associations raise profound questions about stress’s role in hindering life achievement. Educational attainment and school performance have long been linked to socioeconomic class, and a divergence in skills is evident quite early in life. One oft-cited study suggests that 3-year-olds from professional families have more than twice the vocabulary of children from families on welfare. The disparity may stem in part from different intensities of parental stimulation; poorer parents may simply speak less with their children.
这些关联对应激在影响人生成就方面所起的作用提出了深刻的问题。长期以来，人们发现受教育程度和在学校的表现与社会经济阶层有关联，而且技能方面的不同在生命的早期就显现出来。一项被经常引用的研究暗示，家长是专业人士的孩子，其3岁时的词汇量，比来自受救济家庭的同龄孩子多两倍以上。这种差异可能在一定程度上是因为来自家长的刺激程度不同；更贫穷的父母可能只是更少地跟孩子说话。
But Martha Farah, a neuroscientist at the University of Pennsylvania, has also noted differences not just in the words absorbed but in the abilities that may help youngsters learn. Among children, she’s found, socioeconomic status correlates with the ability to pay attention and ignore distractions. Others have observed differences in the function of the prefrontal cortex, a region associated with planning and self-control, in poorer children.
但宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)的神经科学家玛莎·法拉(Martha Farah)还注意到一些差别，这些差别不只表现在孩子吸收的词汇量上，也存在于可能有助于儿童学习的能力上。她发现，对儿童而言，社会经济地位与集中注意力和忽略干扰因素的能力有关联。其他研究者观察到，家境更穷的儿童，其大脑的前额叶外皮功能有差异，前额叶皮质与计划和自我控制有关。
“You don’t need a neuroscientist to tell you that less stress, more education, more support of all types for young families are needed,” Dr. Farah told me in an e-mail. “But seeing an image of the brain with specific regions highlighted where financial disadvantage results in less growth reframes the problems of childhood poverty as a public health issue, not just an equal opportunity issue.”
法拉在一封电子邮件中对我说，“你不需要一个神经科学家来告诉你，更少的压力、更多的教育和各种支持是年轻家庭所需要的。但是，看到大脑图谱上标出的那些受经济不利影响而发育得不好的区域，让人不得不从公共健康、而不仅是机会平等的角度，看待童年贫困的问题。
Animal studies help dispel doubts that we’re really seeing sickly and anxiety-prone individuals filter to the bottom of the socioeconomic heap. In primate experiments females of low standing are more likely to develop heart disease compared with their counterparts of higher standing. When eating junk food, they more rapidly progress toward heart disease. The lower a macaque is in her troop, the higher her genes involved in inflammation are cranked. High-ranking males even heal faster than their lower-ranking counterparts. Behavioral tendencies change as well. Low-ranking males are more likely to choose cocaine over food than higher-ranking individuals.
动物研究帮助我们消除了疑虑，我们所看到的，真的是易生病、易焦虑的个体沦落到社会经济等级的最底层。在用灵长类动物做的实验中，相比于地位更高的雌性，地位低的雌性患心脏病的几率更高。当让她们吃垃圾食品时，地位低的雌性更快地患上心脏病。母猕猴在自己群体中的地位越低，其与炎症有关的基因就越有活性。地位高的雄性甚至比地位低的同类痊愈得更快。行为倾向也会发生变化。同地位更高的个体相比，地位低的雄性选择可卡因而非食物的可能性更高。
All hope is not lost, however. Gene expression profiles can normalize when low-ranking adult individuals ascend in the troop. “There are likely contextual influences that are not necessarily immutable,” says Daniel Hackman, a postdoctoral scholar at the University of Pittsburgh. And yet, as with humans, the mark of early-life hardship persists in nervous systems wired slightly differently. A nurturing bond with a caregiver in a stimulating environment appears essential for proper brain development and healthy maturation of the stress response. That sounds easy enough, except that such bonds, and the broader social networks that support them, are precisely what poverty disrupts. If you’re an underpaid, overworked parent — worried, behind on rent, living in a crime-ridden neighborhood — your parental skills are more likely to be compromised. That’s worrisome given the trends in the United States. About one in five children now lives below the poverty line, a 35 percent increase in a decade. Unicef recently ranked the United States No. 26 in childhood well-being, out of 29 developed countries. When considering just childhood poverty, only Romania fares worse.
然而，并非一点希望都没有。当地位低的成年个体在群体中的地位升高时，它们的基因表达谱能够正常化。“可能有一些背景影响，它们并非一成不变，”匹兹堡大学(University of Pittsburgh)的博士后学者丹尼尔·哈克曼(Daniel Hackman)说。然而，和人类一样，早年生活艰辛的痕迹会因神经系统中稍稍不同的连接而存留下来。在一个充满刺激的环境中与照料者形成培育的纽带，似乎是大脑的正常发育以及应激反应的健康成熟所必需的。这听起来简单不过了，然而这种纽带，以及支持这种纽带的更广泛的社会网络，正是被贫穷所瓦解的东西。如果你是一位得到的报酬过低且劳累过度的家长，你焦虑、拖欠房租、生活在一个犯罪高的社区，那么你为人父母的技能更可能有欠缺。考虑到美国的发展趋势，这一点很令人担忧。如今，大约五分之一的孩子生活在贫困线以下，这一比例在十年中增加了35%。最近，在对29个发达国家的儿童幸福情况进行排名时，联合国儿童基金会(United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund)将美国排在第26位。如果仅考虑童年贫穷，只有罗马尼亚的情况更糟。
“We’re going in the wrong direction in terms of greater inequality creating more of these pressures,” says Nancy Adler, the director of the Center for Health and Community at the University of California, San Francisco. As income disparities have increased, class mobility has declined. By some measures, you now have a better chance of living the American dream in Canada or Western Europe than in the United States. And while Americans generally gained longevity during the late 20th century, those gains have gone disproportionately to the better-off. Those without a high school education haven’t experienced much improvement in life span since the middle of the 20th century. Poorly educated whites have lost a few years of longevity in recent decades.
“就更严重的不平等导致更大的压力而言，我们正在南辕北辙地发展，”加州大学旧金山分校(University of California, San Francisco)健康与社区中心(Center for Health and Community)主任南希·阿德勒(Nancy Adler)说。随着收入差距的拉大，阶层之间的流动性降低了。以某些衡量标准来看，如今在加拿大或西欧实现美国梦的机会比在美国大。而且，虽然美国人的寿命在20世纪末普遍延长了，但寿命延长的大部分是被更富裕的人享有的。自20世纪中叶以来，没上过高中的人的寿命未曾得到改善。近几十年来，受教育程度较低的白人的寿命还缩短了几年。
A National Research Council report, meanwhile, found that Americans were generally sicker and had shorter life spans than people in 16 other wealthy nations. We rank No. 1 for diabetes in adults over age 20, and No. 2 for deaths from coronary artery disease and lung disease. The Japanese smoke more than Americans, but outlive us — as do the French and Germans, who drink more. The dismal ranking is surprising given that America spends nearly twice as much per capita on health care as the next biggest spender.
与此同时，全国研究委员会(National Research Council)的一份报告发现，与其他16个富裕国家的人相比，美国人一般更容易生病，寿命也更短。我们在20岁以上的成年人糖尿病发病率方面排名第一，在因冠状动脉和肺脏疾病死亡方面排名第二。日本人吸烟者比美国多，但却比我们长寿，饮酒更多的法国人和德国人也比我们长寿。考虑到美国在卫生保健方面的人均支出几乎是位居其后的国家的近两倍，这种令人沮丧的排名的确让人吃惊。
But an analysis by Elizabeth H. Bradley, an economist at the Yale School of Public Health, suggests that how you spend money matters. The higher the spending on social services relative to health care, she’s found, the greater the longevity dividends.
然而，耶鲁大学(Yale University)公共卫生学院(School of Public Health)的经济学家伊丽莎白·H·布拉德利(Elizabeth H. Bradley)的一项分析表明，钱是怎么花的很重要。她发现，相对于卫生保健而言，在社会服务上花的钱越多，所得到的寿命收益就越大。
Some now argue that addressing health disparities and their causes is not just a moral imperative, but an economic one. It will save money in the long run. The University of Chicago economist James Heckman estimates that investing in poor children yields a yearly return of 7 to 10 percent thereafter to society.
现在有人提出，解决健康方面的不平等以及造成这种不平等的原因，不仅从道德上来说是必需的，而且从经济上来说也很必要。这将让社会从长远来看节省开支。芝加哥大学(University of Chicago)的经济学家詹姆斯·赫克曼(James Heckman )估计，在贫穷孩子身上的投资，日后给社会带来的年回报率为7%到10%。
Early-life stress and poverty aren’t a problem of only the poor. They cost everyone.
早年的压力和贫穷不只是穷人的问题。全社会都为其付出代价。