HOMETOWN
家乡 
North Bergen, N.J.
新泽西州 北卑尔根镇
HIGH SCHOOL
高中
St. Peter's Preparatory School
圣彼得预科学校
COLLEGE PLANS
大学志愿
Columbia University
哥伦比亚大学
Getting dressed each morning for school, I slip on my blazer, tighten my leather Oxfords, and pick a pair of glasses that match my outfit. Just a block away from my house, my town's high school is a two-minute walk to my left. However, I turn right and begin my hour-long commute to St. Peter's Prep. On my way to the bus stop, I always run into my childhood friends as we go in different directions. I wonder, “Why is my life so different from theirs? Do they think I'm pretentious, going to a prep school?” I don't live in a dystopian town where gunshots go off every day. However, many of my friends just don't care about school and use alcohol, drugs or sex to escape from their socioeconomic realities; the majority of my town is low-income and Latino.
每天清晨上学前我都穿戴齐整：穿上西装上衣，系紧我的皮鞋鞋带，再挑选一副搭配我的外套的眼镜。我们镇的高中和我家仅隔一个街区，出门左转步行两分钟就到。但是，我却要右转，每天坐一个小时的车到圣彼得预科学校。去汽车站的路上，我总能碰到儿时的朋友，我们走得方向并不一样。我常想，“为什么我的生活和他们的如此不同？他们会因为我去上预科学校而觉得我这个人自命不凡吗？”我并不住在那种糟糕透顶、每天都有枪击事件发生的小镇。然而，我的很多朋友就是对上学不在乎，他们用酒精、毒品和性行为来逃避自己的社会经济现状；我们镇上的大多数人都是低收入的拉美裔。
I continue walking to the bus stop and run into a friend who went to my elementary school. "Those red pants make you look like one of those jerks from Prep, bruh. I work the register at a bank and I don't even wear that crap," he says while laughing in a sincere manner. He shakes my hand the same way we have since the second grade; we both smile at the fact that the gesture is alive after all these years.
我继续向巴士站走，碰到了一个朋友，他和我上的是同一所小学。“兄弟，那条红裤子让你看着就像预科学校里的那群混球。我可是在银行坐柜台的，都不穿这种东西，”他边说边真诚地笑着。他和我握手的方式从二年级起就没有变过；我们两个都因为这么多年了还用这个手势而面露微笑。
Arriving at my high school, my favorite priest sketches the trinity on my torso and mentions something he wants me to do with the blessing of God that day: ace a test, inspire the freshmen with a motivational speech or simply be happy. Feeling loved, I move on to ethics class and analyze how the cycle of socialization comes into play with the same community I just tutored a weekend ago, Brooklyn Jesuit Prep. In my science class, I discuss how global warming relates to the research trip I recently attended in Alaska with my teacher.
来到我就读的高中，我最喜欢的牧师在我胸前划十字为我祝福，并且提出当天他想让我在上帝的护佑下做的一些事：考试名列前茅，用动人话语激励高一新生，或者只是快快乐乐地过完这一天。我感受到自己被爱包围着，在伦理课上，我分析社会化周期是如何影响我上周末刚刚辅导过的那个社区：布鲁克林耶稣会预备学校。在科学课上，我和老师讨论全球变暖和我最近参加的阿拉斯加研究之旅的联系。
To enjoy the weekend, I go to a football game between Prep and my neighborhood. During a play, my prep friends chant, “That's alright, that’s okay, you'll be working for us someday.” Having deep bonds of friendship on both sides, I'm shocked at the thoughtlessness of my classmates. Part of me feels ostracized, but another part of me wants to fix things; I fiercely lecture them on how wrong they are about my home. With my neighborhood friends, part of me wants to ignore what the football fans had to say, but a subtle fear that they may be right grows in my heart. I am moved and start tutoring my neighborhood friends with my used test-preparation books and showing them the social skills I learned from Dale Carnegie. I also start sharing books on body language and charisma, fascinating guides to lucid dreaming, and my favorite thrillers from Stephen King. I do this simply because it's what friends do. While I see college as an opportunity, many of my neighborhood friends see it as an obstacle keeping them from a paying job. I am trying to help this handful of friends realize that studying, reading, and learning can be rewarding.
周末为了享受一下，我去看了预科学校和我们社区的橄榄球比赛。在一场比赛中，我预科学校的朋友们高喊：“没关系，别着急，早晚我们雇用你！”因为我对两边都有深厚的友情，我被同学这种不顾及他人感受的做法震惊了。让我一方面觉得受到排斥，但另一方面又想要解决问题；我强硬地告诫这些人，告诉他们对我这里的人们的认识是多么的错误。对我左邻右舍的朋友们，我有点想要对那些橄榄球赛观众说的话置之不理，却又隐隐担心同学们说的也许是对的。我被触动了，我开始拿用过的备考书辅导邻里的朋友们，给他们展示我从戴尔·卡耐基那里学到的社会技能。我还开始分享各种书籍，它们有关肢体语言、人格魅力，或是清醒之梦趣味指南，然后还有我最喜欢的史蒂芬·金(Stephen King)的惊悚小说。我这么做只是因为这是朋友应该做的。我将大学看作一个机遇，但邻里的很多朋友们将之视为找工作挣钱的障碍。我正试着帮助这些朋友认识到学习、读书是有回报的。
Living two blocks away from me, my best friend, Eduardo, attends public school and wants to become a United States Marshal. Working out four hours every day and taking classes like public speaking, law and American literature, everything he does revolves around his goal. People like Eduardo give me hope among the football fans' chanting and make the fear in my heart subside.
我最好的朋友埃德瓦多住在两个街区之外，他在公立学校就读，想要成为一名美国执法官。他每天都要锻炼四个小时，上公众演讲、法律还有美国文学课，他做的一切都为了实现他的目标。像他这样的人在橄榄球赛观众的高喊声中给予了我希望，也安抚了我内心的恐惧。
The two worlds that comprise my being constantly play tug of war in my mind. My parents came from poverty in Ecuador, so I was raised believing that hard work and education can take you anywhere. Whether that work is in the classroom, at the gym or networking at a business event, persistence is what fosters success. Not your race. Not your native language. Not your ZIP code.
我生活的这两种世界不断地在我的头脑中进行拔河比赛。我的父母来自厄瓜多尔的贫穷家庭，所以我从小到大相信的是，努力工作和勤奋学习可以带你到任何地方。无论是在教室、健身房中的努力，还是在商务活动中建立关系网，坚持不懈才能孕育成功。无关的是你的种族、你的母语，和你生活的街区。