Donald J. Trump reeled on Sunday amid a sustained campaign of criticism by the parents of a Muslim American soldier killed by a suicide bomber in Iraq and a rising outcry within his own party over his rough and ethnically charged dismissal of the couple.
周日，令唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)晕头转向的问题持续发酵：一名在伊拉克遭遇自杀式袭击而阵亡的穆斯林美国士兵的父母仍在猛烈批评特朗普，同时，特朗普所在政党内部对他粗暴地带着种族情绪驳斥这对夫妇的做法的抗议之声也在不断上涨。
The confrontation between the parents, Khizr and Ghazala Khan, and Mr. Trump has emerged as an unexpected and potentially pivotal flash point in the general election. Mr. Trump has plainly struggled to respond to the reproach of a military family who lost a son, and has answered their criticism derisively — first implying that Ms. Khan had been forbidden to speak at the Democratic National Convention, then declaring that Mr. Khan had “no right” to question Mr. Trump’s familiarity with the Constitution.
特朗普与阵亡军人父母吉泽尔和加扎拉·汗(Khizr and Ghazala Khan)的冲突，已成为大选中一个意外的、具有潜在关键作用的导火索。特朗普对一个失去儿子的军人家庭对他本人的责备显然有点措手不及，他讥讽地回应了他们的批评，先是暗示加扎拉·汗被禁止在民主党全国代表大会上发言，后又宣布吉泽尔·汗“无权”质疑特朗普对宪法的熟悉程度。
And Mr. Trump’s usual political tool kit has appeared to fail him. He earned no reprieve with his complaints that Mr. Khan had been unfair to him; on Sunday morning, he claimed on Twitter that Mr. Khan had “viciously attacked” him. Mr. Trump and his advisers tried repeatedly to change the subject to Islamic terrorism, to no avail.
这次，特朗普贯用的政治手法似乎有点失灵。特朗普所谓吉泽尔·汗对他不公平的抱怨没能为他赢得喘息的机会；周日上午，特朗普在Twitter上声称吉泽尔·汗“恶毒攻击”了他本人。特朗普及其顾问们多次试图把话题改变到伊斯兰恐怖主义上去，但都无济于事。
Instead, Mr. Trump appeared to be caught on Sunday in one of the biggest crises of his campaign, rivaling the uproar in June after he suggested a federal judge, Gonzalo P. Curiel, was biased because of his Mexican heritage. By going after a military family and trafficking in religious stereotypes, Mr. Trump once again breached multiple norms of American politics, redoubling pressure on his fellow Republicans to choose between defending his remarks or breaking publicly with their nominee.
反过来，特朗普似乎在周日陷在了其竞选活动的一次最大危机之中，这次危机不亚于特朗普在6月份暗示联邦法官贡萨洛·P·库列尔(Gonzalo P. Curiel)由于有墨西哥血统、不可能公正所引发的轩然大波。揪着军人家庭不放，还贩卖宗教成见，这些做法让特朗普再次违反了美国政治的多个规范，加大了迫使特朗普的共和党同僚们在捍卫他的言论及与本党总统提名人公开决裂之间做出选择的压力。
Mr. Trump also risked reopening controversies related to religious tolerance and military service: His treatment of the Khans has brought on a new wave of criticism of his proposal to ban Muslim immigration, and of his mockery of Senator John McCain’s time as a prisoner of war in Vietnam.
特朗普还冒下了重新引发有关宗教宽容、以及军人为国服务争议的风险：特朗普对待汗氏夫妇的做法，引发了人们对他禁止穆斯林移民的建议、以及他嘲笑参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)越战期间战俘经历的言论的新一轮批评。
Democratic leaders and candidates for Congress began over the weekend to call on Republicans to disavow Mr. Trump. And the top two Republicans in Congress, House Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, signaled their strong disagreement with Mr. Trump, but stopped short of condemning him in blunt terms.
民主党领袖和参选国会议员的民主党候选人开始在周末呼吁共和党人否认特朗普。国会两院的共和党最高层：众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安( Paul D. Ryan)和参议院多数派领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)暗示，他们与特朗普有强烈的意见分歧，但还没有直言不讳地谴责特朗普。
Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee, sternly reprimanded Mr. Trump on Sunday morning, saying at a church in Cleveland that he had answered the Khan family’s sacrifice with disrespect for them and for American traditions of religious tolerance.
民主党总统候选人希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)在周日上午严词斥责特朗普，她在克利夫兰的一个教堂说，特朗普对汗家人的牺牲的回答是对他们的不尊敬，也是对宗教宽容这一美国传统的不尊敬。
“Mr. Khan paid the ultimate sacrifice in his family, didn’t he?” Mrs. Clinton said. “And what has he heard from Donald Trump? Nothing but insults, degrading comments about Muslims, a total misunderstanding of what made our country great.”
“汗先生的家庭做出了最崇高的奉献，这毫无疑问。”希拉里说。“但是，他从唐纳德·特朗普那里听到了什么呢？除了侮辱、贬低穆斯林的言论，以及对让我们国家伟大的东西的彻底误解之外，什么都没有。”
Mrs. Clinton chastised Mr. Trump again on Sunday in Ashland, Ohio, calling his comments part of a disturbing pattern. “He called Mexicans rapists and criminals,” Mrs. Clinton said. “He said a federal judge was unqualified because he had Mexican heritage — someone born in the neighboring state of Indiana. He’s called women pigs. He’s mocked a reporter with a disability.”
希拉里周日在俄亥俄州的阿什兰再次指责特朗普，称他的言论有一种令人不安的模式。“他称墨西哥人为强奸犯和罪犯，”克林顿说。“他宣布一名联邦法官不合格，只因为他有墨西哥血统，而这名法官是在邻州印第安纳出生的。他曾称女性为猪。他嘲笑过一位有残疾的记者。”
Mr. and Ms. Khan stiffened their denunciation of Mr. Trump on Sunday, saying that he lacked the moral character and empathy to be president. Mr. Khan, who addressed the Democratic National Convention on Thursday, said on “Meet the Press” on NBC that Mr. Trump had shown disrespect to his wife, and he accused Mr. Trump of running a campaign “of hatred, of derision, of dividing us.”
汗氏夫妇周日加强了他们对特朗普的谴责，说他缺乏担任总统的品德和同情心。周四在民主党全国代表大会上发表演讲的吉泽尔·汗在NBC的《与媒体见面》(Meet the Press)节目上说，特朗普对他的妻子表现不敬，并指责特朗普用“仇恨、嘲弄、让我们分裂”的手法搞竞选。
In a direct appeal to voters inclined to support Mr. Trump, Mr. Khan pleaded with them to reject his brand of politics.
吉泽尔·汗在对倾向于支持特朗普的选民发表的直接呼呼中，恳求他们拒绝接受特朗普的政治手法。
Addressing “patriotic Americans that would probably vote for Donald Trump,” Mr. Khan said, “I appeal to them not to vote for hatred, not to vote for fear-mongering. Vote for unity. Vote for the goodness of this country.”
吉泽尔·汗对“可能投票支持唐纳德·特朗普的爱国美国人”说，“我向他们呼吁，不要把票投给仇恨，不要把票投给制造恐慌。而是把票投给统一。投给这个国家的美德。”
And Ms. Khan, in an opinion article published in The Washington Post, rebuked Mr. Trump for suggesting earlier in the weekend that she had not been permitted to speak at the Democratic convention. Ms. Khan said she did not speak because she did not believe she could remain composed while talking about her son.
加扎拉·汗在《华盛顿邮报》发表了一篇评论文章，批评特朗普在周末早些时候暗示，她未被允许在民主党大会上发言。加扎拉·汗说，她没有发言，因为她觉得自己不能在谈论儿子时保持平静。
“All the world, all America, felt my pain. I am a Gold Star mother. Whoever saw me felt me in their heart,” Ms. Khan wrote, using the term for surviving family members of those killed in war. “Donald Trump has children whom he loves. Does he really need to wonder why I did not speak?”
“全世界、全美国都能感受到我的痛苦。我是一名金星母亲。见到我的人从他们的内心深处感受到我的痛苦，”加扎拉·汗写道，金星家属指的是阵亡士兵留下来的家属。“唐纳德·特朗普有他所爱的子女。难道他真的需要知道我为什么没说话吗？”
Ms. Khan said Mr. Trump was “ignorant” of Islam and criticized him for offering his business career as evidence that he had sacrificed for his country. “Donald Trump said he has made a lot of sacrifices,” Ms. Khan said. “He doesn’t know what the word sacrifice means.”
加扎拉·汗说特朗普对伊斯兰教“无知”，并批评他把他本人的商业生涯作为为国家做了牺牲的证据。“特朗普说，他已经做出了很大的牺牲，”加扎拉·汗写道。“他不知道牺牲这个词的意义。”
It is too soon to say how severe the damage to Mr. Trump might be, but the clash has already entangled him in a self-destructive, dayslong argument with sympathetic accusers who are portraying him as a person of unredeemable callousness. Still, he has proved remarkably resilient, getting past controversies that might have sunk other candidates.
虽然判断此事对特朗普的损害有多严重还为时尚早，但这一冲突已让他陷入了一场与同情的批评者发生的、有损自身的整日辩论之中，那些批评者把特朗普描绘为一个不可就药的麻木不仁者。不过，他已渡过了几次可能会让其他候选人倒霉的危机，证明他颇有韧性。
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said on Sunday that Mr. Trump had crossed another inviolable line. Like his comments about Judge Curiel, Mr. Graham said, Mr. Trump’s jabs at Mr. and Ms. Khan were unacceptable. “This is going to a place where we’ve never gone before, to push back against the families of the fallen,” he said.
南卡罗莱纳州共和党参议员林赛·格雷厄姆(Lindsey Graham)周日表示，特朗普又逾越了一条不可触犯的红线。格雷厄姆说，正如其有关库列尔法官的言论，特朗普对汗氏夫妇的批评同样不可接受。“对阵亡士兵的家属发起攻击，是进入了一个我们从未涉及的境地，”格雷厄姆说。
He added, “The problem is, ‘unacceptable’ doesn’t even begin to describe it.”
他补充说，“问题是，‘不可接受’这个词根本无法开始形容这种境地。”
Representative Mike Coffman of Colorado, a Republican who served in combat as a Marine and now represents a crucial swing district in the Denver suburbs, said Mr. Trump had disrespected American troops. “Having served in Iraq, I’m deeply offended when Donald Trump fails to honor the sacrifices of all of our brave soldiers who were lost in that war,” Mr. Coffman said.
科罗拉多州的共和党众议员麦克·科夫曼(Mike Coffman)曾作为海军陆战队队员在战时服役，他目前所代表的是丹佛郊区的一个关键摇摆选区，科夫曼说特朗普对美国军队不尊敬。“作为在伊拉克服过役的一员，我深感受到唐纳德·特朗普表现的冒犯，他未对在那场战争中牺牲的我们所有的勇敢士兵表示崇敬，”科夫曼说。
The pressure on Mr. Trump and other Republicans is unlikely to relent soon. But so far he has flailed and faltered in response.
特朗普及其他共和党人感受到的压力不太可能会很快消弱。但直到目前为止，他只做出了胡乱的、支吾其词的回应。
He first criticized Ms. Khan for not speaking alongside her husband, implying that she had been prohibited from doing so. Facing mounting criticism from Democrats and Republicans, he released a follow-up statement on Saturday night, describing the Khans’ deceased son as a hero, but insisting that Mr. Khan had “no right” to criticize him the way he did in Philadelphia. He made a third attempt to deflect the Khans’ criticism on Sunday, writing on Twitter that the real issue at stake in the election was terrorism.
他先是批评加扎拉·汗站在丈夫身边没有发言，暗示她未被允许讲话。面对来自民主党和共和党的越来越多的批评，特朗普在周六晚发布了一份后续声明，在声明中，他把汗氏死去的儿子描述为英雄，但坚持认为吉泽尔·汗没有批评他本人的“权利”，正如吉泽尔·汗在费城所做的那样。周日，特朗普第三次试图把视线转移到汗氏批评之外的事情上，他在Twitter上写到，大选所面临的真正问题是恐怖主义。