Consumer demand for high-efficiency homes is rising. But the value of “green” isn’t always factored in by appraisers, and is typically ignored by mortgage lenders.
消费者对节能住宅的需求正在增长。但房产评估师在为住宅估价时，并不总会将“绿色”价值纳入考量；房贷机构一般也会无视这方面因素。
A bipartisan Senate bill supported by a broad coalition of business, real estate, energy and environmental groups seeks to put energy cost savings into the underwriting equation. Called the SAVE Act (for Sensible Accounting to Value Energy), the legislation could make energy-efficient features more affordable to average-income home buyers by allowing them to qualify for a larger loan amount.
参议院两党议员共同提出一项提案，旨在把节能效益添加到承保计算方程中，获得了商界、房地产业、能源业及环保团体组成的一个广泛联盟的支持。它被称为《SAVE法案》（“SAVE”指的是Sensible Accounting to Value Energy，即为节能估价的合理会计处理方式），可让收入处于中等水平的购房者也更有可能负担得起节能住宅，具体方法就是准许他们有资格获得更大的贷款额度。
The legislation would require Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Housing Administration to incorporate energy efficiency into their underwriting policies. The energy savings would be considered only when a buyer or homeowner chose to submit a qualified home-energy report, the guidelines for which would come from the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
该法案要求房利美(Fannie Mae)、房地美(Freddie Mac)和联邦住宅管理局(Federal Housing Administration)将能源效用因素纳入其承保政策。承保机构将考虑住宅的节能特性，前提条件是购房人或房主提交合格的住宅能源报告。报告的指导方针可能会由住宅和城市发展部(Department of Housing and Urban Development)制定。
“Right now appraisers really don’t have an effective way of considering energy-efficient features,” said Robert Sahadi, the director of energy efficiency finance policy for the Institute for Market Transformation, a major supporter of the legislation. “The ruling methodology is the sales comparison approach, and to the extent that there aren’t enough comparables in the marketplace, they’re sort of hamstrung. What is being advocated is having a third-party energy report on the house.”
“眼下，评估师确实没有一个有效考量住宅节能特性的方法，”市场转型研究所(Institute for Market Transformation)的能效财务政策主任罗伯特·萨哈迪(Robert Sahadi)说。这家研究所是该法案的一个主要支持者。“业界惯用的方法是销售比较法；但鉴于市场上还没有太多可资比较的案例，这个方法就不太好用了。我们提倡的方法是，为住宅出具一份第三方能源报告。”
Even when home appraisers do account for energy savings in a valuation, mortgage underwriters tend to reject the adjustment, either out of an abundance of caution or because they don’t understand it, said Sandra Adomatis, an appraiser in southwest Florida who also works as a consultant for Advanced Energy in Raleigh, N.C. “I’m hearing all over that the underwriters are insisting they take out the energy adjustment,” she said.
佛罗里达州西南部的评估师桑德拉·阿多马提斯(Sandra Adomatis)说，即使住宅评估师在估价过程中对节能特性进行了会计处理，房贷承保机构也往往会拒绝这种调整。这既可能是出于小心谨慎，也可能是因为他们不明白这件事。阿多马提斯同时也是位于北卡罗莱那州罗利市(Raleigh)的能源公司Advanced Energy的顾问，她说：“我总听人说，承保机构坚持让估价师把节能调整的部分拿掉。”
A spokesman for the Mortgage Bankers Association said the group had not endorsed the SAVE Act, which is part of a broader energy bill awaiting action, and had no position on it. The bill would help borrowers in two ways. First, in the same way that lenders include property taxes and insurance costs when weighing a borrower’s income against monthly expenses, they would have to factor in energy cost savings. The resulting adjustment in the borrower’s debt-to-income ratio could mean a larger loan amount.
房贷银行家协会(Mortgage Bankers Association)的一位发言人说，该协会尚未对《SAVE法案》表示支持，对它也不发表意见。此提案作为一个有待执行的更为广泛的节能提案的组成部分，将以两种方式帮助借款人。首先，贷款机构在计算借款人的收入与每月支出时，必须像对待物业税和保险费的成本那样，把节能因素纳入计算中。借款人的债务/收入比(debt-to-income ratio)经过这样的调整，他们可能获得更大数额的贷款。
Second, lenders would have to add the value of projected energy savings to the home’s value, if the appraiser hadn’t already done so. Since mortgage amounts are based on a percentage of the home’s value, a higher value would translate into a larger mortgage.
其次，就算评估师没有把预期的节能价值计入住宅价值，贷款机构也必须这样做。由于房贷金额是按房屋价值的某个百分比来计算的，住宅价值增加了，房贷金额自然也就该水涨船高。
Richard L. Borges II, the president of the Appraisal Institute, called the proposed use of energy audit reports a “very meaningful approach,” especially when compared with the incomplete and inaccurate energy-efficiency information often presented to appraisers.
评估协会(Appraisal Institute)的会长理查德·L·博格斯二世(Richard L. Borges II)说，使用能效审计报告的提议是个“很有意义的方法”，尤其是跟客户提交给评估师的那些往往既不完整、又不准确的节能信息相比。
“The people that are exposing the properties to the market — the Realtors — are not conversant and well skilled to describe exactly what they have in a factual manner,” Mr. Borges said.
“向市场介绍房产的人是房地产经纪人，在信息和技巧方面，他们都不足以用实事求是的方式描述房产，”博格斯说。
Loan performance on energy-efficient homes, Mr. Sahadi noted, is considerably better than on other homes. A study commissioned by the institute found that default risks are 32 percent lower on homes that meet the government’s “Energy Star” guidelines than on similar non-Energy Star homes. The study examined 71,000 home loans from 2002 to 2012.
萨哈迪则指出，在偿还贷款方面，节能住宅买家的表现大大优于其它住宅。该研究所发起的一项研究发现，满足政府“能源之星”(Energy Star)指导方针的住宅，房贷违约风险比非“能源之星”的同类住宅低32%。该研究涵盖了2002年至2012年间的7.1万笔住宅贷款。
The findings demonstrate that the SAVE Act approach “isn’t some boutiquey idea that we just want to get out there,” he said. “We’ve made a case that this is underwriting positive instead of negative.”
这一研究结果表明，《SAVE法案》“不是为了推行而推行的‘花瓶式’理念，”他说，“它对承保机构的影响不是消极的，而是积极的，我们已经有了充分的理由这么说。”