As Michelle Yeoh, Jackie Chan, Andy Lau and Angelababy provided a star-spangled backdrop, 40 watchmakers, engravers, enamelers and gem-setters from Switzerland showed off their skills in Hong Kong last month, at the Watches&Wonders fair, billed as Asia’s version of the famous Geneva Salon.
被标榜为亚洲版日内瓦钟表展(Geneva Salon)的“钟表与奇迹”(Watches&Wonders )展览会前一段时间在香港举行。来自瑞士的40位制表师、雕刻师、珐琅彩绘师以及宝石镶嵌师展示了自己的精湛技艺，杨紫琼、成龙、刘德华、杨颖等明星的出席则让现场星光闪耀。
Over the past 10 years, Asia has become the top market for Swiss watches. In 2012 exports to the region were worth 11.6 billion Swiss francs, or $12.84 billion, with exports to Hong Kong alone totaling 4.1 billion francs. Though growth has slowed drastically this year, the region remains an important market, industry experts and Swiss watchmakers say.
过去10年间，亚洲已经成为瑞士钟表的最大市场。2012年对这一地区的出口额为116亿瑞士法郎，约合770亿元人民币，其中光是对香港的出口额就高达41亿瑞士法郎。虽然今年的增长已经大幅放缓，但业内人士和瑞士钟表制造商表示，该地区仍然是一个重要的市场。
Certainly the fair’s organizers, the Swiss Fondation de la Haute Horlogerie, pulled out all the stops to draw potential buyers. An exhibition, titled “The Mastery of Time,” displayed about 100 vintage timepieces on loan from Swiss museums and private collections to chronicle 500 years of time measurement; and the exhibitors — 13 brands mostly of the Richemont luxury group — offered lavish hospitality outside events on the sidelines of the show.
为了吸引潜在买家，作为展会组织者的瑞士高级制表基金会(Swiss Fondation de la Haute Horlogerie)显然使出了浑身解数。在一个名为“征服时间”(The Mastery of Time)的展览上，约100件借自瑞士各大博物馆的古董表和一些私人藏品纷纷亮相，意在展现跨度为500年的时间计量编年史。
Among the more eye-catching displays, Roger Dubuis brought its golden eagle statue-cum mascot from Geneva to deck out its booth, while Montblanc hired a mime to “interact” with a video presentation on a large, three-sided screen. A. Lange & Söhne created a larger-than-life mock-up of its grand complication watch, complete in all its details.
在更为吸引眼球的一些展览中，豪爵(Roger Dubuis)把从日内瓦带来的金鹰雕像变成了吉祥物，用于装饰自己的展位，万宝龙(Montblanc)雇了位滑稽剧演员与大大的三面显示屏上播放的视频“互动”。朗格(A. Lange & Söhne )则为其极致复杂表(Grand Complication)制作了一个巨大的模型，所有细节都惟妙惟肖。
“I think they aimed at the top market, specifically to those who are not able to travel to Geneva” for the January Salon, said Carson Chan, watch specialist and managing director at Bonhams Asia in Hong Kong. “Most of the brands had something new to show, and I must say I was impressed with the events they organized, like the dinners and cocktails.”
“我想他们的目标是这个最大的市场，尤其是那些无法赶往日内瓦”参加每年1月的钟表展的人，钟表专家、香港邦瀚斯(Bonhams)亚太区董事陈楷逊(Carson Chan)说。“大部分品牌都展示了一些新东西；另外我必须承认，他们组织的一些活动令我印象深刻，比如晚宴和鸡尾酒会。”
Not everybody was equally impressed. Journalists, invited by the brands, complained about being herded like sheep, and some collectors complained about wobbly floors and a lack of catering facilities.
但并不是所有人都像他那样满意。各大品牌邀请的媒体记者们抱怨自己像羊一样被赶来赶去，一些藏家则抱怨地板摇摇晃晃，餐饮设施也很缺乏。
“Of course a collector who wears a 2 million Hong Kong dollar watch can buy his own sandwich when he leaves the exhibition,” said Melvyn Teillol-Foo, a Singapore-based collector. Still, he said, “to promote luxury lifestyle, impressions are everything.”
“当然了，一个佩戴着价值200万港元的手表的藏家，可以在离开展览后给自己买一个三明治，”新加坡收藏家梅尔文·泰洛尔-富(Melvyn Teillol-Foo)说。但他指出，“要想推销奢侈的生活方式，印象重于一切。”
Still, he added, there were impressive watches to be seen. Several brands brought out new, one-of-a kind jewelry models for the show or introduced new limited editions.
他补充说，尽管如此，展览中的一些钟表还是令人印象深刻。好几个品牌都在展会上亮出了独一无二的新款珠宝表，或者推出了新的限量版。
“Our Asian clients are very demanding, and they truly enjoy it when they finally come across something unique,” the watchmaker Richard Mille remarked in an e-mail. Mr. Mille’s watchmaking company of the same name offered an RM26-01 Panda Tourbillon in white gold with baguette diamonds and a 30-piece limited edition of the RM055 Bubba Watson in white and red.
“我们的亚洲客户非常挑剔，但当他们终于碰到与众不同的东西时，就会真心真意地喜欢上它，”钟表制造商理查德·米勒(Richard Mille)在一封邮件中评论道。米勒的同名钟表制造公司在展会上推出了一块镶有祖母绿型钻石的RM26-01大熊猫陀飞轮(RM26-01 Panda Tourbillon)白金腕表，以及仅有30块的一款限量版RM055布巴·沃森(RM055 Bubba Watson)红白色腕表。
Red, an auspicious color for the Chinese, was widely present.
被中国人视为吉祥色的红色随处可见。
Roger Dubuis had a high jewelry piece from its Velvet collection, featuring 304 diamonds and two cushion-cut rubies on its dial. Van Cleef&Arpels went for red in its Pavot Mystérieux, with a diamond-encrusted dial at the heart of a large ruby and diamond poppy.
罗杰杜彼(Roger Dubuis)有一块出自其天鹅绒(Velvet)系列的高级珠宝腕表，表盘上镶嵌着304颗钻石和两枚枕型红宝石。梵克雅宝(Van Cleef&Arpels)的Pavot Mystérieux腕表同样是红色的，镶满钻石的表盘位于一朵大大的以红宝石和钻石制成的罂粟花的花心。
Van Cleef also catered to Chinese taste with an addition to its Cerfs-Volants kite series featuring finely worked marquetry and miniature painting on mother-of-pearl.
梵克雅宝还为其Cerfs-Volants风筝系列腕表增加了一个新款，来迎合中国人的口味，其特色是精工制作的镶嵌装饰品和珍珠母贝微绘。
At the end of it all, brands were coy about sales: “We achieved exactly what we were expecting,” said Angelo Bonati, chief executive of Officine Panerai. Visitors, he said were “attentive, competent and curious — more than expected.”
展会全部结束后，各大品牌谈及销售额时却表现得扭扭捏捏：“我们实现了之前所预计的销售额，”沛纳海(Officine Panerai)首席执行官安赫洛·博纳蒂(Angelo Bonati)说。他表示，参观者“彬彬有礼，鉴赏功力强，并且充满好奇心——这都超出了原本的预期。”