You know it’s there. You’ve seen it on TV. You’ve devoured a few blog posts about it.
你知道有这地方，你在电视上看过。你也已经看过好些关于它的博客了。
Maybe it’s that spot in Rome where clandestine tables are set up in an alley and a neighborhood feast comes together beneath the honeyed glow of street lamps. Maybe it’s that tiny shop in a parking lot in Penang that sells the sublime coconut tarts, or the unglamorous strip mall in Los Angeles where Anthony Bourdain once sweated over a bowl of spicy Thai boat noodles.
或许它是在罗马的某个地方，私密的餐桌在小巷子里架起来，街坊宴席在光线柔和的街灯下排开。或许是在槟城那家卖美味椰子馅饼的小店停车场里，又或许是在洛杉矶那条并不耀眼的单排商业街里，安东尼·波登(Anthony Bourdain)有一次就在那里吃一碗辣的泰式船面，吃得直冒汗。
If there’s one thing you’ve learned from watching all those shows with Mr. Bourdain, the voracious world traveler, it’s that these out-of-the-way treasures do exist. You, too, can eat there.
如果你看波登的节目，能从这位周游世界的美食家那里学到什么的话，那就是这些世外的宝地确实存在。你，也可以去那些地方吃饭。
The only catch? You may need a little help.
关键是什么？你或许需要一点点帮助。
It’s that line of thinking that explains the rise, over the last few years, of a new kind of travel specialist — so new, in fact, that they haven’t coined a name for the job. For now, let’s call them the food sherpas.
就是这种思路，解释了过去这几年来一种新的旅游业达人崛起——事实上，他们新到人们还没有给这种工作创造一个专门的名字。我们就暂且把他们叫做“夏尔巴食家”(food sherpa)吧。
Just as a traditional Sherpa guide helps a mountain climber navigate the stresses and mysteries of a Himalayan peak, a food sherpa is a local expert who brings a hungry traveler to pockets of the culinary landscape that may otherwise seem out of reach.
就像传统的夏尔巴人导游（一个生活在中印尼边界的民族，以在喜马拉雅山麓担当导游著称——译注）会帮助登山者驾驭喜玛拉雅山峰上的神秘与压力一样，“夏尔巴食家”就是一个当地的专家，带着饥肠辘辘的游客去一些别人似乎都找不到的美食景点。
You’ll find them in Paris and Barcelona, in Malaysia and Mexico. But don’t go looking for a long, tortoise-paced phalanx of tourists in white sneakers trailing behind a guide who’s waving a flag and barking memorized data through a megaphone. Food sherpas pride themselves in offering something different: an experience that gives small groups of visitors (sometimes as few as 2, and rarely more than 12) an intimate encounter with what’s off the eaten path.
在巴黎和巴塞罗那，在马来西亚和墨西哥，你都能找到这样的地方。不过，可不要去找那些排着长队的游客方阵，他们穿着白色帆布鞋，跟在一个甩着旗子、对着喇叭狂喊背熟的数据的导游身后龟速行进。“夏尔巴食家”们引以为傲的，是他们能提供一些别样的东西：给少数的游客（少的时候只有两个人，多的时候也很少超过12人）一种亲密的体验，接触那些常规美食路线之外的东西。
“I usually don’t like tours,” said Lisa Rogovin, the entrepreneur behind a company called Edible Excursions, which oversees 25 to 40 deep dives, every month, into the diverse food scene of the San Francisco Bay Area. “I really need to know that this is going to be real and authentic. I don’t want to be on a bus. I don’t want to be in a herd of cattle.”
“我通常都不喜欢跟团旅游，” 食得游(Edible Excursions)公司的创立者丽莎·罗戈文(Lisa Rogovin)说。这家公司每月经办25到40次探索旧金山湾区美食景观的深度游。“我真的必须知道这是真实可信的。我不想坐在大巴上，不想成为牛群里的一只。”
That has been Rick Gelbard’s goal for decades. “My wife and I had never actually taken a tour,” said Mr. Gelbard, 62, a retired Panavision engineering executive who lives in California. “We have always preferred to travel independently.” But while preparing for a trip to Rome and trying to figure out where to eat, he found the ocean of online data to be overwhelming.
这也是里克·格尔巴德(Rick Gelbard)几十年来的目标。“我和我妻子从来没有真正参加过旅行团，”62岁的格尔巴德说。他是Panavision公司工程部的退休职工，现居加州。“我们一直都更喜欢自助旅游。”不过在准备罗马之旅和寻找吃饭地方的时候，他发现网上那些信息的海洋完全看不过来。
Before long, he came across a blog called Elizabeth Minchilli in Rome. He learned that Ms. Minchilli, a food writer and occasional New York Times contributor who has lived in Italy since 1988 (and who spent some of her childhood there), could be hired as a private emissary to gastronomic gems around the city.
不久，他就偶然看到一个叫做“伊丽莎白·明奇利在罗马”(Elizabeth Minchilli in Rome)的博客，发现了美食作者，偶尔给《纽约时报》撰稿的明奇利女士。她从1988年开始就一直住在意大利（也在那里度过了部分童年时光），她可以被聘请作为一名特使，寻访城中的美食瑰宝。
“I just thought, ‘Let’s try this out,’ ” Mr. Gelbard said.
“我当时只是想：‘我们来试试看吧。’”格尔巴德说。
What followed, once he and his wife landed in Rome, was a day of dining like a Bourdain-in-training: cappuccinos in a coffeehouse that looked as if it hadn’t changed since the early 1970s; a sampling of fresh mozzarella and burrata; deep-fried artichokes in a working-class osteria; and trays of delicious cured meats from a deli so nondescript that a casual tourist would probably walk right past it.
然后，当他和妻子一抵达罗马，迎接他们的就是一整天如同“波登演练课”一样的美食之旅：一家咖啡店里的卡布奇诺看起来就像20世纪70年代初到现在从没改变过一样；新鲜的莫萨里拉干酪和布拉塔芝士；工薪阶层小酒馆里的油炸洋蓟；还有一盘一盘的美味腌肉，来自一家熟食店，它如此地不起眼，闲逛的游客很可能会径直错过。
“It was a kind of experience you just don’t get if you’re wandering around by yourself,” Mr. Gelbard said. “What it felt like is, I met up with an old friend who’s been living in Rome for a decade, and she showed us around.”
“这是那种靠自己随便蹓跶绝对得不到的体验，”格尔巴德说，“感觉就像是，我和一个在罗马住了十年的老朋友见面，她带着我们到处走走。”
The old-friend treatment isn’t cheap. In some cases, enlisting the services of a first-class food sherpa can cost the same as dinner at a Michelin-starred restaurant: from $75 or $100 a person to as much as $1,000 for a small group, for what is often a three- or four-hour excursion. (The food tends to be included.)
这种老朋友式服务并不便宜。有些时候，聘请一个一流的“夏尔巴食家”为你服务，价钱可以和在一家米其林星级餐厅用餐的费用相当：从每人75美元或100美元到一小组人1000美元不等，通常是3到4个小时的短途旅行（食物费用通常会包括在内）。
Then there’s the inevitable downside of any booming trend: with food tours cropping up all over, you could pick one led by a local chef, an award-winning cookbook author or an experienced blogger, or you could wind up with some food-truck-savvy charlatan who just moved to town.
而且，每一股新兴的潮流中都不可避免地带有某些负面的元素：随着美食团到处涌现，你可以挑选本地厨师，获奖的食谱作者或者一个有经验的博主领路，但也可能碰上一些只是比较懂得在餐车里挑食物的江湖骗子，他们只不过是刚刚搬到这里来的。
“You get what you pay for,” Ms. Rogovin said. “My tours cost more than the other tours, but I hire informed industry insiders to lead them.”
“一分钱一分货，”罗戈文说，“我的团要价比其他团要高，但我会聘请一些见多识广的业内人士来带领他们。”
Food tours, both the good and the mediocre, are flourishing because food consciousness is, too. Meg Zimbeck, who arranges tours through the Paris by Mouth site, which she founded, has seen “an increase in people who are traveling to eat,” she said. “That is as important for them as going to the Eiffel Tower.”
不管是好的还是平庸的，美食团的兴起是因为美食意识也在兴起。梅格·津贝克(Meg Zimbeck)通过 “嘴上的巴黎”(Paris by Mouth)网站组织美食团，她也是网站的创始人，她见到“越来越多的人都是为了吃而去旅行的，”她说，“这对他们来说跟去埃菲尔铁塔一样重要。”
They relish visiting “places that will give them bragging rights when they go back home,” and if they’re feasting on, say, cheese, they want insights that go beyond the rudimentary.
他们乐意去一些“等他们回家之后可以吹嘘的地方”，而如果他们在宴席上吃的是奶酪之类，他们会希望得到一些超越表面的深度知识。
“I see people leading food tours in Paris that are sort of just taking people through the market and being like: ‘So this is cheese! There’s hard cheese, there’s soft cheese!’ ” said Ms. Zimbeck, who, like many of the sherpas, is an American expatriate. “When I’m in a shop and somebody asks me a wild-card question about ‘What’s that cheese over there?’, because cheese is my No. 1 obsession in life, I know.”
“我看一些人在巴黎带美食团，就只不过领着人穿过市场，说：‘这些就是奶酪！有硬奶酪和软奶酪！’”津贝克说。她像很多“夏尔巴食家”一样，是从美国移居出去的。“当我在一家商店里的时候，有人来问我一些关于‘那边那种是什么奶酪’之类的奇怪问题时，我都会知道，因为奶酪是我的头号最爱。”
On one hand, tracking down the world’s most excellent arancini (or arepas or angulas or ambuyat) should be easier than ever, thanks to the profusion of food sites scattered around the Internet. That same profusion, though, can turn into a problem. When thousands of voices are shouting about where to go, it’s often impossible for a layperson to choose which spots genuinely stand out.
一方面，由于互联网上广泛传播的各种美食网站，搜寻世界上最好的饭团（或者玉米饼、鳗鱼苗和西米糕等）变得前所未有的容易。然而，这样一种广泛的传播也可以成为一个问题。当几千个声音都在嚷着应该去哪里吃的时候，一个外行人不可能从中选出真正出色的地点。
“I filter through all the clutter for them,” said Wendy Lyn, who runs a site called The Paris Kitchen and puts together tours (for no more than four people at a time) of the city she has called home for more than 20 years.
“我替他们理清思路，”经营“巴黎厨房”(The Paris Kitchen)网站的温迪·林恩(Wendy Lyn)说。她在这座她已经居住了20多年的城市组织美食团（一次服务不超过四个人）。
And for a meticulous food sherpa, clutter removal is only the beginning. In Paris, experts like Ms. Lyn and Ms. Zimbeck don’t just bring their charges along to cheese shops and pâtisseries. They school them on how to behave when they get there.
对于一个一丝不苟的“夏尔巴食家”来说，去除糟粕仅仅是个开始。在巴黎，像林恩和津贝克这样的专家不仅仅是带着客户去奶酪店和糕点坊，还会教导他们在这些地方的行为举止。
One should not, for instance, barge into a shop and, without exchanging a word with anyone behind the counter, start reaching into a display case to Charmin-squeeze some mille-feuille. “In France, that’s a huge no-no,” Ms. Lyn said.
比如，你不应该走进一家店，不跟柜台后面的人说半句话就开始伸手进陈列柜里面，拿着手纸抓一块法式千层糕。“在法国，这是非常不对的，”林恩说。
Instead, she shows them how to shop (and eat) like a seasoned pro. “I teach,” she said. “It’s more than going into a cheese shop and saying, ‘O.K., this is the right place.’ It’s a cheese consultation. It takes, like, an hour to buy cheese. It’s this whole thing.”
相反，她向他们示范怎样像资深专业人士一样购物（和吃东西）。“我会教他们，”她说，“这不光是走进奶酪店然后说：‘好了，就是这个地方。’应该是一次关于奶酪的咨询。买奶酪是恨不得要花上一个小时的。要的是一整套的东西。”
Skilled food sherpas also protect their hungry broods from one of the classic tourist missteps: going to the right place, but ordering the wrong thing.
有经验的“夏尔巴食家”还会保护手下这群嘴馋的客人，不让他们犯游客的典型错误：去了对的地方，却点了错的东西。
“The way you eat Thai food is not the way you eat any other cuisine,” said Jet Tila, a Los Angeles chef whose Melting Pot tours of Thai Town have attracted a following that includes Mr. Bourdain himself. “Thai people go to a certain restaurant that specializes in a certain dish. If you order wrong at any particular restaurant, you’re hosed. We are obligated to tell people not just where to go, but what to order.”
“吃泰国菜的方式跟吃其他任何料理的方式都不一样，”洛杉矶的厨师杰特·蒂拉(Jet Tila)说。他在泰国城办的“大熔炉”(Melting Pot)美食团，连波登本人都是其拥趸。“泰国人去某个餐厅，是为了吃某一项特色菜。如果你在任何一个特定的餐厅点错了菜，你就被耍了。我们的责任不仅是告诉人们应该去什么地方，还有应该点什么。”
So it’s Ruen Pair for green papaya salad, and Sapp Coffee Shop for boat noodles, and no place whatsoever for a certain dish that has become an overexposed, Americanized shadow of its former self. “There’s not a lick of pad thai on my tour,” Mr. Tila said. “I will not allow it to be ordered. Spread your wings a little bit. Try something new.”
所以，去“Ruen Pair”就要吃青木瓜沙拉，去“Sapp Coffee Shop”就是要吃船面，而且不管去任何地方，都不要吃某些已经被过度宣传并且被美国化到掩盖了原样的东西。“我的团里绝不会碰泰式炒粉，”蒂拉说，“我不会允许点这一道菜。稍微放开怀抱，试点新的东西吧。”
If you’re in Istanbul, for instance, perhaps you want a taste of kokorec, a Turkish street food that involves offal, like sweetbreads, that has been wrapped in glistening strips of intestine. The whole thing is usually chopped up and put into a sandwich with a spatula.
比如，如果你是在伊斯坦布尔，或许你会想试一下烤酥肠(kokorec)，那是一种土耳其街头食品，会将内脏（比如胰脏）用油亮的肠子捆起来。整份内脏通常会被割成一段一段，用刮铲放进三明治里。
“People really love that one,” said Ansel Mullins, of the Istanbul Eats site, whose Culinary Backstreets tours of Istanbul have been booming since he and the journalist Yigal Schleifer hatched them in 2010. (They have since branched out to Athens and Barcelona.)
“人们真的很爱吃这个，”“伊斯坦布尔美食”(Istanbul Eats)网站的安塞尔·穆林斯(Ansel Mullins)说。他和记者伊格尔·施雷弗(Yigal Schleifer)在2010年筹办了伊斯坦布尔的“厨房后街”美食团，此后便一直大受欢迎，之后他们还将业务扩展到了雅典和巴塞罗那。
Mr. Mullins and his team can help you find that dish — and an array of “mom-and-pop shops that really matter to the neighborhood” but don’t tend to be part of the cruise-ship circuit. Without him, good luck.
穆林斯和他的团队可以帮你找到那一道菜——以及一系列“真正能吸引街坊的夫妻档店铺”，但这些店通常不会包括在一般的游轮巡游路线里面。没有他带领，你就只能自求好运了。
“I think some of the best places to eat in Istanbul are places where it would be difficult for somebody to walk in and manage a meal,” he said. “It’s harder to decipher the dining culture.”
“我觉得伊斯坦布尔一些最好的饭馆很难被人发现，”他说，“要解读这种饮食文化就更难了。”
Especially when there’s no menu, and when local shop owners aren’t always sure what to make of these curious new global gastronauts.
尤其是当没有菜单的时候，本地的店主也不总是确定应该给这些新的国际食家们推荐些什么。
“They’re like: ‘Wow, why are you bringing these foreigners here? Are you serious? Are you sure?’ ” Mr. Mullins said. “I say, ‘Yeah! They want to talk to you, they want to shake your hand, they want to eat your food and learn about why it’s so important to everybody else in here.’ ”
“他们会说：‘哇噢，为什么你会带这些外国人来这里？你是说真的吗？你确定？’”穆林斯说，“我就说：‘对！他们想跟你聊聊，想跟你握个手，想吃你这里的食物，并且想知道为什么它对其他所有人来说是那么重要。’”
And more than anything, these visitors want a guarantee that they aren’t going to squander something precious: a great meal in a great city.
比任何事情都更重要的是，这些游客想得到一个保障，让他们不会挥霍掉一种珍贵的东西：在一座美好的城市里吃上美妙的一顿饭。
“It’s not just, ‘Let me find a good pastry shop,’ ” said Ms. Zimbeck, of Paris by Mouth. “It’s ‘Which of these hundreds of pastry shops that everyone is writing about is worth my time?’ I think people are attracted to tours because a tour focuses like a laser through all that noise and says, ‘This is the best.’ We’ve done the work. We’ve tasted it. We’ve tested it. We know.”
“这不仅仅是说‘我来找一家好的点心店吧，’”“嘴上的巴黎”的津贝克说，“而是‘在这几百家所有人都在写的点心店里，哪家才是值得我花时间去的呢？’我想人们喜欢包价游是因为包价游像镭射光一样穿过所有的杂音，集中到焦点上，并且说：‘这是最好的。’我们做了功课，尝试过也测试过，我们知道。”
A Good Sherpa
美食好导游
You’re traveling to Buenos Aires or Borneo and want an on-the-ground expert to help you eat like a real local. How to make sure you don’t get dragged along to tourist traps by some backpacker from Nebraska who learned how to pronounce Époisses or nuoc cham only three days ago? Here are some things to look for.
你要去布宜诺斯艾利斯或者婆罗洲，并且想找一位接地气的专家，帮助你像一个本地人一样吃喝。如何保证你不会被某个来自内布拉斯加并且三天前才学会“Époisses（伊泊斯芝士）”和“nuoc cham（鱼露蘸酱）”怎么发音的背包客把你牵进旅游陷阱？以下是一些需要注意的方面。
Experience
经验
If a food tour is a spinoff of an established blog that has scores of past posts about neighborhood treasures, you’re probably in good hands. If the site is brand new and misspells common words like mozzarella and meze, you’re probably not.
如果一个美食团是来自一个成规模的博客，已经发表过大量关于街坊美食的博文，那你很可能就是找到了可靠的人。如果网站是全新的，并且连一些像“mozzarella”和“meze（开胃菜）”这样的常用名词都拼错的话，那就不太可靠了。
Interaction
互动
Some of the best food sherpas will quiz you, via e-mail, to learn your likes and dislikes before you even hit town.
一些最好的“夏尔巴食家”会通过电邮向你提问，在你还没有到埗之前就了解你的喜恶。
Intimacy
亲近感
A food tour should not be large enough to be disruptive; it should feel like a small gathering of friends. “There’s nothing worse than being in a very special, small shop and bellowing in English because people can’t hear you,” said Meg Zimbeck, of Paris by Mouth. “We try to leave a very light footprint.”
一次美食团不应该大到出现分化；它应该感觉像一次小型的朋友聚会。“在一家非常特别的小店里大声喊着英语，因为别人听不见你，没有什么比这更糟糕的了，”“嘴上的巴黎”的梅格·津贝克说，“我们想要只留下浅浅的脚印。”
Surprise
惊喜
If a site merely lists tourist-friendly dishes that you’ve already heard of (baguettes in Paris or a sourdough bread bowl in San Francisco), think twice.
如果一个网站仅仅是列出一些你已经听说过的受游客欢迎的菜色（巴黎的法棍或者旧金山的酸面包碗等）的话，请三思。
Obsession
投入度
Look for guides who are fixated, at a granular level, on the subtleties of a culinary scene, rather than those who also give tours on architecture, fashion or bird-watching. “Jacks-of-all-trades tend to give superficial tours,” Ms. Zimbeck said.
寻找的那些导游，要对美食文化风景的细节着迷到明察秋毫的程度，而不是找那些同时还会带团看建筑、时装或者野鸟的导游。“涉及所有领域的杂家，带的团游通常都是肤浅的，”津贝克说。