Even after his apology for posting photos of himself visiting the Yasukuni Shrine in Tokyo, which honors thousands of Japan’s military dead but also Class A war criminals, Justin Bieber remains a target of outrage in China.
贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)已经为上传自己参观东京靖国神社(Yasukuni Shrine)的照片进行了道歉，但却依然是中国民众发泄怒火的目标。靖国神社供奉着数千名日本战亡人员，以及一些甲级战犯。
The 20-year-old Canadian pop star and heartthrob had posted the photos showing himself at the shrine on Tuesday on his Instagram and Twitter accounts, prompting an immediate backlash online from Chinese who see the shrine as a monument to Japan’s brutal wartime past. In one of the photos, Mr. Bieber is seen from behind standing in front of the shrine, while in another he is standing with his hands clasped in prayer next to an unidentified man. After deleting the photos from his social media accounts, Mr. Bieber, who was visiting Japan with his mother, issued an apology on Wednesday saying he was “extremely sorry” for posting the photos.“While in Japan I asked my driver to pull over for which I saw a beautiful shrine. I was mislead [sic] to think the Shrines [sic] were only a place of prayer. To anyone I have offended I am extremely sorry. I love you China and I love you Japan”.
周二，这名20岁的加拿大流行歌星、万人迷在自己的Instagram和Twitter账号上传了一些显示他身在靖国神社的照片，此举立即在网上引发了中国人的强烈反应。中国人认为，靖国神社是对日本野蛮战争历史的纪念碑。在其中一张照片中，比伯背对镜头站在靖国神社的前面。而在另一张照片中，他站在一名身份不明的男子身旁，双手合十祈祷。删除了社交网络账户上的照片后，正和母亲一起在日本观光的比伯周三发表了一份道歉声明，称他“非常抱歉”上传了那些照片。“在日本时，我让司机停车，因为我看到了一座漂亮的神社。我误以为（原话）这些神社（原话）仅仅是祈祷的地方。对于被我冒犯的所有人，我非常抱歉。我爱你中国，我爱你日本。”
Despite Mr. Bieber’s efforts to make amends, Chinese online commenters have so far seemed skeptical about his sincerity. “Justin Bieber visits Yasukuni Shrine” was among the top trending topics on Thursday on Sina Weibo, the Chinese microblogging service.
尽管比伯采取了弥补措施，但迄今为止，中国的网络评论人士似乎仍然怀疑他的真诚。周四，在中国的微博平台新浪微博上，“贾斯汀·比伯参拜靖国神社”是最热门的话题之一。
“I just don’t believe that he didn’t know what that place was,” read one popular comment on Weibo. “Did he even think about China when he was posting those photos of him worshiping at the Yasukuni Shrine? Did he even consider how his fans in China might feel after seeing those photos?”
“我就不信他不知道那是什么地方，”微博上一篇传播颇广的帖子写道，“他上传那些参拜靖国神社的照片时想到过中国吗？他想到过自己的中国粉丝在看到这些照片后的感受吗？”
“Japanese war criminals hurt so many Chinese people in the past,” another user wrote. “I hope that if you really love a country, then at the very least you wouldn’t go out of your way to bump up against the wounds of that country.”
“日本战犯过去伤害了多少中国人，”另一名用户写道，“我希望，如果你真的爱一个国家，那么至少不要以自己的方式去揭那个国家的伤口。”
The Yasukuni Shrine has long been a source of tension between Japan and its neighbors. Visits and offerings made to the shrine by Japanese leaders over the years have been seen as an affront to China and South Korea in particular, which suffered under Japanese occupation and see these gestures as signs of Japan’s increasing assertiveness in the region.
长期以来，靖国神社一直是日本与邻国关系紧张的一个源头。多年来，日本领导人参拜该神社并向其敬献祭品一直被视为针对中国和韩国的侮辱。中韩两国曾在日本占领期间深受压迫，认为这些举动是日本在该地区立场越来越强硬的迹象。
While the Yasukuni Shrine receives many foreign tourists each year, Mr. Bieber’s apparently spontaneous visit coincided with a particularly fraught time in relations between China and Japan. On the same day Mr. Bieber was there, a Japanese cabinet minister and about 150 conservative Japanese politicians also paid a visit to the shrine, a move that Xinhua, China’s state-run news agency, said reflected “Japanese politicians’ infatuation with militarism” and was an example of their “double-faced tactics.”
靖国神社每年都会接待许多外国游客，比伯此次看似无心的拜访却刚好赶上了中日两国关系格外紧张的时候。比伯来到靖国神社的同一天，一名日本内阁大臣和大约150名日本保守派政治人物也对靖国神社进行了参拜。中国国家通讯社新华社称，这反映了“日本政客对军国主义的痴迷”，体现了他们的“两面派策略”。
The politicians’ visit also came the day before President Obama arrived in Japan as part of a much-anticipated Asia tour intended to reaffirm United States commitments to its allies in the region. While stopping short of explicitly condemning it, a State Department representative indicated dissatisfaction with Japan’s actions.
在这些政治人物参拜靖国神社之后一天，奥巴马总统来到日本访问，他此次备受期待的亚洲之行旨在重申美国对其亚洲盟友的承诺。一名美国国务院官员虽然没有明确谴责日方参拜神社的行为，但也间接表达了对这种行为的不满。
“As we have indicated many times, we encourage Japan to continue to work with its neighbors to resolve concerns over history in an amicable way through dialogue,” the representative said, according to Reuters.
据路透社(Reuters)报道，这名官员说，“正如我们多次阐明的那样，我们鼓励日本继续与其邻国进行合作，通过对话友善地解决历史问题。”
Mr. Bieber’s visit to the shrine is not the first time the singer has found himself colliding with historical sensitivities. Almost exactly a year ago, Mr. Bieber drew widespread criticism for a note he left in the guestbook at the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam. He wrote of the young Jewish girl who perished in a Nazi concentration camp: “Anne was a great girl. Hopefully she would have been a belieber,” a term used to describe his fans.
比伯的靖国神社之行并不是他首次陷入历史敏感问题。几乎刚好一年前，比伯在阿姆斯特丹安妮·弗兰克之家(Anne Frank House)的访客留言簿上留了言，由此受到了广泛批评。提到这位丧生于纳粹集中营的年轻犹太女孩时，他写道：“安妮是个伟大的女孩。希望她也会成为一名belieber。”这个词指的是比伯的粉丝。
Mr. Bieber, who has become known for his diva antics just as much as for his music, also attracted attention among Chinese last October after photographs emerged of him being carried up the Great Wall by his bodyguards.
比伯的名声不光来自他的音乐，同样来自他极其怪异的举止。去年10月，他也曾引起中国人的关注，因为他被保镖抬上长城的照片曝了光。
Asked on Wednesday by a reporter whether Mr. Bieber’s visit to the Yasukuni Shrine had “hurt the feelings of the Chinese people,” Qin Gang, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, said that, while he was “not clear on the political position of this Canadian pop entertainer to which you are referring,” he did hope that Mr. Bieber could “learn more about the history of Japanese militarism, and the wrongful historical and militaristic views promoted by the shrine.”
周三，有记者问中国外交部发言人秦刚，比伯参观靖国神社的行为“是否伤害了中国人民的感情”，秦刚说他“不知道你提到的这位流行乐的歌星的政治立场”，但却希望比伯能够“对日本军国主义那段侵略的历史、对靖国神社里宣扬的那些皇国史观和军国主义的思想，都有所了解和认识”。