He sings, he dances, he acts, and he’s not afraid to get silly in self-mocking comedy shorts. Drawing a line from Frank Sinatra to Jay Z, Justin Timberlake has become this generation’s master of ceremonies.
他能歌能舞，也能演。他不惮在自嘲的滑稽短剧中扮傻瓜。作为串连从弗兰克·辛纳塔到Jay Z之间的一条线贾斯汀·汀布莱克已经成为这一代人的典礼司仪。
JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE IS PLAYING the long game. He’s the Kasparov of showbiz. He has survived far longer than most artists, tracing an arc from pop-culture absurd — first appearing on the Mickey Mouse Club at age 11 — to pop-culture sublime, a solo career that has triumphed at a time when entertainment, and celebrity, have become more disposable than ever. “I’m 32,” he says over coffee this summer in downtown Manhattan. “I know that I’m still young, but I’ve been in this business two-thirds of my life and you just learn that some things are accepted the way you hope and some aren’t.”
贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)要的是长线经营。他是娱乐届的卡斯帕罗夫(Kasparov)。他的艺术生命比绝大多数艺术家都长，其轨迹从流行文化的荒诞之处（他最早登台亮相是11岁那年在米老鼠俱乐部）一直延续到流行文化的最高点，在这个娱乐与名人地位前所未有短暂易逝的时代，他的个人演艺生涯却获得了巨大成功。“我今年32岁，”今年夏天，我们在曼哈顿下城喝咖啡时，这样跟我说道。“我知道自己还年轻，但我目前一生中的2/3时间都是在这个行业里度过的，总会明白有些东西会成为你所希望的样子，有些东西则不会。”
To a remarkable degree, across multiple disciplines, they have been: his band ’N Sync’s success, at its time, rivaled that of the Beatles; teeny-bopper adulation could’ve been a velvet coffin, as it was for other members of his group and that of the other ’90s phenomenon, the Backstreet Boys. But Timberlake methodically worked his way out of it, rebranding himself as a dapper solo artist, a picker of modest but choice acting roles (most notably as Sean Parker in “The Social Network“) and as a master of this generation’s gift to comedy, the viral short. The digital shorts he created with the music-comedy trio the Lonely Island, and his “Saturday Night Live” skits, centered largely on parodies of oversexed ’90s R&B stars. They also served to gently distance him from his teenage self, less oversexed than, say, the members of Jodeci, but perhaps similarly mockable. He also, smartly, knew when to shut up, going AWOL from music for almost seven years, absent some key collaborations, before returning this spring with a complex, densely produced best-selling album, “The 20/20 Experience.”
在很大程度上，经历重重艰难后，许多事情已经成了他想要的样子：比如他的乐队“超级男孩”(’N Sync)的成功，当年其走红程度简直堪比“披头士”(Beatles)；对于乐队的其他成员，乃至另一支20世纪90年代现象级乐队“后街男孩”(Backstreet Boys)的成员们来说，年轻歌迷们的奉承就像丝绒棺材，令他们止步不前。汀布莱克却有条不紊地努力摆脱了这种局面，把自己重新包装为一个精明能干的单飞艺人，专门饰演那种温和，却在抉择中起重大作用的角色（特别是《社交网络》[The Social Network]中的西恩·帕克[Sean Parker]）；还成了这代人中的喜剧与“病毒”短视频（指那种红遍网络的视频——编注）天才。他与喜剧音乐三人组“孤岛”(Lonely Island)合作拍摄的数码短片，以及在“周六夜现场”(Saturday Night Live)上演的小喜剧，主要是在戏仿那些纵欲无度的20世纪90年代R&B明星。同时它们也温和地把他同他十几岁时的形象分隔开来，那时的他可能不像“乔迪西”(Jodeci)的成员们那样纵欲无度，但也同样可笑。他也精明地知道何时应当收声。除了一些和重要人物的合作，他逃离音乐已经有将近7年了，然而今年春天，他回归乐坛，带来一张复杂的、精工制作的畅销专辑《完美视界》（The 20/20 Experience，此处为引进版名称，直译为“20/20体验”——译注）。
“You get to this point, which I’ve done in the last five or six years, where you become less worried about success and failure,” he says, speaking of “20/20,” which is filled with eight-minute rave-ups and signature Timbaland trance-outs. He may be only in his early 30s, but he has taken on the philosophical aspect of someone a generation older. “I’m sure there’s some self-help cheese-ball book about the gray area,” he says, “but I’ve been having this conversation with my friends who are all about the same age and I’m saying, ‘Y’know, life doesn’t happen in black and white.’ The gray area is where you become an adult . . . the medium temperature, the gray area, the place between black and white. That’s the place where life happens.”
 “如果你达到了这样的阶段，做过了我在过去五六年里做的事，就不会那么担心成败了，”谈到《完美视界》，他这样说道；这张专辑中充满了长达8分钟的喧闹狂欢，以及汀布兰德招牌式的迷幻舞曲风。刚刚30出头的他有着超乎自己年龄的哲学。“我知道肯定有一些廉价的自助书籍，讲述有关灰色地带的事情，”他说，“但我和同龄的朋友们聊过这个话题，我说，‘你们知道，生活不是那么黑白分明的。’当你长大成人，就进入了灰色地带……中等温度，灰色地带，介乎黑白之间。生活就在这么一个地带里发生。”
Others spend years in obscurity, carving off pounds of credibility for meager dollops of fame. Timberlake was more or less born famous, disposably so, and then fought his way to something more real and lasting. And he has done it over a two-decade span that has been marked by rapid-fire cultural churn, building up and tearing down artists at a manic pace. You jump on the party bus only to see it crash in a ditch moments later. Timberlake’s secret has been to remain detached from these hyper-accelerated comings and goings of fad, trend, in, out. “If you can answer the question of why you’re doing it, it’s the right thing to do,” he says in Mr. Miyagi mode, describing his decision to put out his first album since “FutureSex/LoveSounds” in 2006, a gap in content production that would have spelled doom to a lesser talent. “To answer the question ‘Why?’ for the first time in my career, is: because I wanted to.”
许多人多年来籍籍无名，拼命努力，只为获取小小的一点名声。汀布莱克却多少是一生下来就很有名了，虽然是那种昙花一现的名声，但之后他一直努力，以获取更真实、更持久的东西。他已经为此努力了20年，这期间文化漩涡急速转动，以疯狂的速度制造并毁灭着艺人。你好容易搭上一列正在举行派对的大巴，结果它可能一瞬间就撞车。汀布莱克的秘密就在于对那些被炒作加速、来去无常的风尚和潮流保持超然态度。“如果你能回答出‘你为什么要做这件事’，那这件事就是值得做的。”他带着一种宫城先生(Mr. Miyagi)的态度，解释自己何以在2006年的《未来的性/爱之声》(FutureSex/LoveSounds)之后首次推出专辑，假如他才华稍逊，两张专辑之间的内容差异便可能带来失败的噩运。“我在事业生涯中第一次回答‘为什么’这个问题，答案就是：因为我想这样做。”
This year, among other things he wants to do, is put out the second part of “The 20/20 Experience,” which he describes intriguingly as the “hotter, older evil twin sister” of “20/20,” and then, even more intriguingly: “If you could imagine you’re 16 and she’s everything you thought. She’s Marilyn Monroe and then you meet her older sister; everything that’s dark and wrong about her at that age is why you become infatuated with her.” Hot, older “20/20″ will be supported by a major arena tour this fall.
今年，在众多他想要做的事中，最重要的就是推出《完美视界》的第二部分，他对它的描述十分诱人，说它是《完美视界》“更加性感成熟的邪恶孪生姊姊”，更诱人的是：“想像你自己是16岁，她便是你脑海中的一切。她是玛丽莲·梦露(Marilyn Monroe)，然后你见到了她的姊姊；她身上带着一切那个年龄的黑暗与谬误，这正是你迷恋她的原因。”这张更性感、更成熟的《完美视界》还将在今年秋天举行大型体育馆巡演。
This, after he headlined a sold-out stadium tour this summer with Jay Z, an intermittently awkward and thrilling pairing of two very different showbiz traditions, or at least two people who learned very different things watching Frank Sinatra. Jay Z took Sinatra’s suit-and-tie phlegmatic self-confidence, merged it with hip-hop’s swagger and created a model for the 40-plus black artist/businessman that is unprecedented in the genre. Timberlake took from the crowd-pleasing Sinatra, bringing back the idea of the “performer”: the all-singing, all-dancing entertainer, whose craft didn’t interfere with showing the fans a good time. Along the way, thanks in part to the growing amount of time spent collaborating with Jay Z, he has modeled a new kind of postracial, postmacho white male.
今年夏天，他与Jay Z做了一次体育馆巡演，由他领衔，座无虚席。这是两种截然不同的演艺界传统时而笨拙、时而精彩的合作，至少这两人从弗兰克·辛纳塔(Frank Sinatra)身上学到了不同的东西。Jay Z学到了辛纳塔西装革履、镇静自若的一面，再加上他那种hip-hop的时尚风范，营造出一种40岁以上的黑人艺术家/商人的典范形象，在他那种音乐类型里完全没有先例。汀布莱克则学来了辛纳塔讨好观众的一面，带回了“表演者”这个概念——载歌载舞的娱乐者，他的技巧不应当妨碍歌迷享受快乐时光。在这个过程中，部分是因为同Jay Z合作的时间愈来愈多，他开始塑造出一种后种族歧视、后男子气概的白人男子新形象。
Timberlake appears in two movies this year. In the first, “Runner Runner,” he plays a Princeton student and online poker player who believes he was swindled out of his tuition money and goes after the site’s shady owner, played by Ben Affleck. In December, he has a memorable cameo as Jim Berkey in the Coen brothers’ “Inside Llewyn Davis,” a dry comedy very loosely based on Dave Van Ronk’s life and the Greenwich Village folk scene of the ’60s. I say loosely because Van Ronk’s life, as captured in the book, “The Mayor of MacDougal Street: A Memoir,” is a rollicking tale about New York folk at the literal moment before Bob Dylan and the ’60s were about to turn this whole little jewel box of bohemia into Pompeii. The movie, by contrast, lingers like a persistent melancholy.
汀布莱克今年在两部电影中亮相，第一部是《逆转王牌》(Runner Runner)，他在其中饰演一个普林斯顿大学学生，是在线扑克牌玩家，他觉得自己的学费都被骗走，于是去追踪这个扑克牌网站神秘的站长（本·阿弗莱克[Ben Affleck]饰演）。12月，他在科恩兄弟的《醉乡民谣》(Inside Llewyn Davis)中客串亮相，饰演吉姆·伯基(Jim Berkey)，十分令人难忘。影片是一部不动声色的喜剧，松散地建立在戴夫·范·容克(Dave Van Ronk)生平乃至20世纪60年代格林威治村民谣圈的基础上。我说“松散”是因为《麦克道格街的市长：回忆录》(The Mayor of MacDougal Street: A Memoir)一书中所描述的范·容克生平是一个快活的故事，讲的是鲍勃·迪伦(Bob Dylan)与60年代把纽约民谣圈这个小小的珠宝盒变成庞贝废墟之前的事情。相反电影却笼罩着一种持续的忧郁氛围。
When the Coens called, Timberlake had actually just watched Martin Scorsese’s documentary “No Direction Home: Bob Dylan,” and when they asked if he had heard of the now largely forgotten Van Ronk, who played a kind of Salieri to Dylan’s Mozart, they were surprised to hear he had. Dylan, Timberlake says, “jacked a little of Van Ronk’s thing and made it his own.”
科恩兄弟打来电话时，汀布莱克正好刚看过马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)的纪录片《没有回家的方向：鲍勃·迪伦》(No Direction Home: Bob Dylan)，他们问他知不知道范·容克这个已被很多人忘记的歌手——如果把迪伦比作莫扎特，他就相当于萨列里(Slieri)。汀布莱克居然知道他，这令他们非常惊讶。汀布莱克说，迪伦“偷来了一点范·容克的东西，把它们变成他自己的”。
Berkey is the husband and singing partner of Carey Mulligan’s Jean Berkey, who (improbably) cuckolds Timberlake’s character with the husky, E.Q.-challenged Davis, played by the relative newcomer Oscar Isaac. Timberlake’s role is a small one, but his Berkey is a significant foil to Davis, who is the most talented musician in the story, but has no ability to connect with audiences.
伯基是简·伯基（Jean Berkey，由凯瑞·穆里根[Carey Mulligan] 饰演）的丈夫和唱歌搭档，简（荒谬地）在汀布莱克饰演的角色与身强力壮、情商不高的主角大卫（由新星奥斯卡·艾萨克[Oscar Isaac]饰演）之间脚踩两只船。汀布莱克的角色是配角，但在片中，大卫是极具才华的音乐家，却没有同观众沟通的能力，伯基正是他的极好陪衬。
Timberlake’s Berkey, unencumbered by neuroses about authenticity and craft and gazing ingenuously at the world around him, looks destined for mainstream success. It is a sly Coen brothers joke: one can see them clearly identifying with the hirsute, curmudgeonly Davis, fighting Talmudic battles with shadows; Timberlake’s Berkey just floats through the whole scene. “Talent doesn’t always equal success,” Timberlake says, drawing a universal connection. “A case can be made a lot for that.”
汀布莱克饰演的伯基不会为那些诸如真诚与虚伪之类的问题烦心，他坦荡地打量着周围的世界，看上去注定会在主流获得成功。这是科恩兄弟玩的一个狡黠的把戏：观众可以看出，他们显然是想让头发蓬乱、脾气暴躁的大卫与重重阴影艰苦地作战，而让汀布莱克的伯基漂浮在整个故事之上。“天才并不总能取得相应的成功，”汀布莱克指出了这里的普遍规律，“有很多这样的例子。”
Timberlake, it has been said, has gone far on likability, which is also a way of mildly patronizing him. He is his generation’s dapper master of ceremonies, turning up as a reliable good time on everything from “Saturday Night Live,” to “Jimmy Fallon,” to the MTV Video Music Awards and, of course, the Super Bowl. But what has let him bridge over multiple iterations and now three generations of fans has been a certain kind of generationally specific decorum: gracious, polite, patient, deferential. He may have you naked by the end of this song, but he will do so using Antioch rules. This quality was much mocked in the wake of his apologies for that “wardrobe malfunction” at the Super Bowl in 2004, wherein he had Janet Jackson’s right breast naked at the end of their joint performance. An apology? How . . . polite.
有人说汀布莱克可爱得过了分，这是一种略带居高临下的说法。他是他这一代人整洁漂亮的典礼司仪，在很多场合出现，他的出场肯定能为观众带来一段快乐时光，从“周六夜现场”(Saturday Night Live)到吉米·法伦秀(Jimmy Fallon)再到MTV音乐录像颁奖礼，当然还有超级碗(Super Bowl)的演出。但令他在多重角色之间架起桥梁、拥有三代粉丝的东西是一种他那代人特有的礼节：慷慨、礼貌、耐心、恭敬。他唱完一曲，可能会扯掉你的衣服，但他肯定会用安提俄克规则这样做。2004年在超级碗的演出中，与珍妮特·杰克逊(Janet Jackson)合唱完一曲，他把她右胸的衣服扯下来，令她露出右乳，之后他为这起“服装事故”道歉，之后他的这一品质受到很多嘲笑。道歉？多么……有礼貌啊。
And even as his lyrics are strewn with references to twerking and booties, he seems unable to express current pop culture’s quasi-porny sexuality with anything approaching conviction. Timberlake’s “dirty” video for “Tunnel Vision,” which showcased him almost moping about an empty studio intercut with images of naked dancing women, was notably less “hot” than the exuberantly “dirty” video released a few months earlier by Robin Thicke, who has positioned himself as a kind of Timberlake 2.0 cyborg. Timberlake, who like Thicke is married, looks miserable and isn’t even shot in the same space as his naked dancing girls. Timberlake doesn’t do R-rated well.
虽然他的歌词里散布着电臀舞和性爱的暗示，但他好像无法用接近肯定的态度去表达现代流行文化中准色情的性欲。汀布莱克为《隧道幻影》(Tunnel Vision)所拍的“色情”录像里，他在一个空荡荡的录音室里摸索，穿插着裸体跳舞的女人镜头。自诩为汀布莱克2.0版的罗宾·西克(Robin Thicke)在几个月前也发表了音乐录像，充满了“色情”，相形之下，汀布莱克的录像就不怎么“性感”。和西克一样，汀布莱克也结婚了，他看上去真可怜， 和那些裸体跳舞的女郎们甚至不在同一个镜头里。汀布莱克也不想拍成R级片。
By inclination and design, Timberlake is positioned apart from the prevailing trends in music, fashion, sensibility. None of these interest him particularly, and his refusal to engage with the ephemera of a particular pop culture moment may in fact be his secret. This moment, and indeed, many of the previous moments, have been driven by technological change. “A lot of people in our biz want to write songs that people want to hear and make movies that people want to see,” he says, “but if the medium is changing at such a rapid pace, the question is, How do you do that?” His answer is to look sideways at iconoclastic artists he admires — like Josh Homme of Queens of the Stone Age, Dave Grohl, Trent Reznor or Kanye West — and backward at artists who were able to transcend their moment and create something that mattered years later. Like who? His name-checks would make a boomer’s heart skip a beat: Janis Joplin, Aretha Franklin, Dylan, Bobby Womack and his fave, Donny Hathaway. “The 20/20 Experience” is aural Spielberg: entirely original yet drenched in five decades of dense pop music history.
通过偏好和设计，汀布莱克被定位为脱离音乐、时尚与情感流行趋势的人。上述这些趋势不是特别令他感兴趣，他拒绝参与某个转瞬即逝的流行文化时刻，或许这属于他的秘密。这个时刻和此前的许多时刻一样，是受技术改变驱动的。“我们行业内的很多人都想写出人们会喜欢听的歌，拍出人们想看的电影，”他说，“但问题是，如果媒介如此迅速地改变，你又怎么能做到这一点？”他的答案是，去看身边那些他所敬仰的打破偶像的艺术家们，比如“石器时代皇后”(Queens of the Stone Age)的乔希·霍姆(Josh Homme)、戴夫·格罗(Dave Grohl)、特伦特·雷诺(Trent Reznor)和坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)；还有之前那些超越了自己的时代，创造出多年之后仍有影响力的作品的艺术家们。比如说呢？他的名单会令婴儿潮一代心跳加快：詹尼斯·乔普林(Janis Joplin)、阿瑞莎·富兰克林(Aretha Franklin)、迪伦、鲍比·沃马克(Bobby Womack)和他的最爱：唐尼·海瑟威(Donny Hathaway)。《完美视界》有点像斯皮尔伯格电影的音乐版：全部原创，但是浸淫在50年来的流行音乐史之中。
Technology, he says, has jammed so much newness into the culture that culture has not figured out how to respond yet. As a result, “There’s not as much substance” in music. Speaking to the nadir — the end of the last decade — he says, “All the soul of it was removed. It was made for whatever the trending medium was. . . . You had two or three different female artists who were doing literally the same song, just different song titles. They are saying the same thing with the same melody, with the same B.P.M.”
他说，技术为文化注入了许多新鲜元素，而文化还没找到应对的方法。因此，音乐中也“没有多少实质内容”。谈起音乐的低谷时刻——过去一个十年的尾声——他说，“音乐中的所有灵魂都被去除。完全是为流行媒介而做……弄两三个不同的女艺人，其实唱的是一首歌，只不过有不同的歌名。她们说的是同样的东西，有着同样的旋律和同样的速度。”
This is not to say that Timberlake is some kind of purveyor of nostalgic pap à la Michael Bublé. The 2013 J. T. experience may lack the industrial thwap of dub-step, now scrambling your innards in every car commercial, but that’s because, as he says with uncharacteristic edge, “Tim [Timbaland, his producing partner] and I were doing that seven years ago. Someone put some cocaine on top of that, and it turned into what it turned into.” And it’s true. Have you listened to “FutureSex/LoveSounds” recently? It sounds even better now than it did then, hit after hit laid into a skittering, luscious flow that is pure sex — pure, parent-approved, consensual sex, that is.
这不是说汀布莱克是迈克尔·布雷(Michael Bublé)这样专门怀旧的歌手。2013年他的J.T.乐队做的东西可能没有工业化的dub-step节奏，但却在所有车展上冲击你的内心，他用平淡的语气说，这或许是因为：“蒂姆（蒂姆布兰德[Timbaland]，他的制作伙伴）和我从七年前就在做这样的东西。有人在上面加了点可卡因，然后它就变成了这样。”的确如此。最近你听过《未来的性/爱之声》吗？它仿佛比刚刚发行的时候显得更好听了，一首首金曲如同迅捷柔滑的水流，那是纯粹的性感——纯粹的、父母也能认可的、两厢情愿的性感，就是这样。
Which brings us back to his role in “Inside Llewyn Davis” and the Village folk era. Timberlake reveres Dylan, but he also understands Dylan as largely a construction, an artistic projection. “I always bring up Robert Zimmerman. ‘Do you know who Robert Zimmerman is?’ They say, ‘Who’s that?’ Look it up.” Van Ronk, in his memoir, describes the Dylan persona as a kind of freestyle riff on who he thought Woody Guthrie really was. Van Ronk’s memoir describes Dylan as so cosmically full of it that he himself probably had no idea what was true and what wasn’t.
这把我们带回他在《醉乡民谣》中的角色，以及格林威治村的民谣时代。汀布莱克尊敬迪伦，但他也在很大程度上把迪伦当做一个构筑，一个艺术形象。“我总是把罗伯特·齐默曼（Robert Zimmerman，迪伦的原名——译注）挂在嘴边。‘你们知道罗伯特·齐默曼是谁吗？’他们就说，‘什么？’这段可以查到。”范·容克在自己的回忆录中把迪伦的人格描述得如同形式自由的即兴演奏，其实是他心目中伍迪·格瑟里(Woody Guthrie)的形象。这本回忆录把迪伦描写得满心都是这个念头，搞得自己也不知道什么是真的，什么是假的。”
Timberlake takes a different moral from the story of Van Ronk and Dylan. He sees the Dylan persona as “methodical,” and that constructedness, he says, is the very essence of how an artist connects with his audience. It’s called performing, and performing is a noble calling, a kind of greater realness. The authenticity is in the ability to make the connection. “I try to talk to people about how much acting goes into music,” he says. “How much of a character goes into what you put on stage. You ever sit down with Jay? He’s not the guy he is on stage. I’m not the guy I am on stage. I am a performer. It’s an elevated idea.”
汀布莱克从范·容克与迪伦的故事中得到了其他教训。他觉得迪伦的人格是一种“方法”，是一种体系，他说，艺术家如何与观众发生联系，这是非常重要的。这就叫做表演，而表演是一个高贵的呼唤，一种更伟大的真实。真诚就存在于这种建立联系的能力之中。“我试着和人们讨论音乐中应当有多少表演的成分，”他说，“你在舞台上呈现出的东西应该有多少角色扮演的成分。你和Jay-Z相处过吗？他在生活中并不是舞台上那个人。我也不是我在舞台上的那个样子。我是个表演者。这是个重要的观念。”