L’Wren Scott, a fashion designer whose creations were known for their discreet elegance, though with a soupçon of daring and glamour evoking her days as a celebrity stylist in Hollywood and her romantic partnership with Mick Jagger, was found dead on Monday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 49.
周一，服装设计师劳伦·斯科特(L’Wren Scott)在她的曼哈顿寓所被发现身亡，年仅49岁。她设计的服装以谨慎的优雅闻名，同时也带有一丝大胆和魅惑，让人想起她在好莱坞担任明星造型师的岁月以及她与米克·贾格尔(Mick Jagger)的恋情。
Pierre Rougier, a spokesman for Ms. Scott, confirmed the death. Two police officials said that the cause appeared to be suicide, but that the medical examiner had not yet made a determination.
斯科特的发言人皮埃尔·鲁吉耶(Pierre Rougier)证实了她的死讯。两位警官说死因好像是自杀，但是法医还没有做出定论。
Ms. Scott had earlier texted an assistant, asking her to come by the apartment, The Associated Press reported, quoting police officials. She was found kneeling with a scarf wrapped around her neck that had been tied to the handle of a French door, The A.P. said, adding that no note was found and that there was no sign of foul play.
美联社引用警官们的话说，斯科特之前给一位助手发短信，让她来公寓。美联社说，她被发现时是跪着的，脖子上缠着围巾，围巾系在落地对开门的把手上。美联社还补充说，没有看到遗言，也没有谋杀的迹象。
Ms. Scott, whose work was sold in dozens of stores and included eyeglasses, handbags and fragrances, began marketing her own designs in 2006; they became known as especially suitable for the kind of leggy, statuesque woman she was herself.
斯科特从2006年开始推广自己的设计，她的作品在几十家店铺销售，包括眼镜、手包和香水。她的服装特别适合那种长腿、高挑的女人，就像她本人那样。
Initially based on the idea of making the “little black dress” appropriate for women who want to appear both alluring and adult, her designs evolved to include wide variations on that theme.
一开始她的设计是想让“小黑裙”也适合那种想看起来既迷人又成熟的女人，后来在那个主题上衍生出许多变化。
Her signature gowns, worn by celebrities like Ellen Barkin, Sarah Jessica Parker and Nicole Kidman, were sheathlike, some with a chic, retro, businesslike flavor, others with a brassy, Op Art pattern or overlaid with a vivid embroidery winkingly drawn from various sources — the Victorians, say, or outer space — but always with an aura of sophistication. Ms. Scott’s designs, she said, were mindful of women’s sensitivity about their figures, something her clients appreciated.
很多名人穿过她的标志性礼服，比如艾伦·巴金(Ellen Barkin)、莎拉·杰西卡·帕克(Sarah Jessica Parker)和妮可·基德曼(Nicole Kidman)。她的标志性礼服很像紧身服，有的具有时髦、复古或商务的感觉，有的则具有大胆的欧普艺术图案或者覆盖着生动的刺绣：这些刺绣的来源不一——比如来自维多利亚时代或者来自外太空——不过总给人一种精密复杂的感觉。她说，斯科特的设计关注女人对自己身材的敏感——这是她的客户们欣赏的态度。
“These dresses do extraordinary things to anybody,” Ms. Barkin told The New York Times in 2012, adding, “If I looked naked like I look in her dresses, I’d be very happy.”
“这些连衣裙能神奇地改变任何人，”2012年巴金对《纽约时报》说。她又补充说，“如果我裸体的样子能像穿她的连衣裙那样，那我会非常高兴。”
The first lady, Michelle Obama, has also worn Scott designs, and they have been seen as costumes in movies like “Ocean’s Thirteen.”
第一夫人米歇尔·奥巴马(Michelle Obama)也穿斯科特设计的衣服，它们看起来像《十三罗汉》(Ocean’s Thirteen)这样的电影中的服装。
Ms. Scott created tailored jackets and cardigans as well, accessorized with boldness and élan. As Vogue magazine’s website described her work in an appreciation on Monday: “Leather and tailcoats, top hats and marabou easily came together in a darkly elegant palette dotted with surprising combinations of chartreuse and periwinkle, or daffodil yellow and dove gray.”
斯科特也设计剪裁考究的上衣和羊毛衫，配饰大胆而有活力。周一《Vogue》杂志的网站赞赏地描述了她的作品：“皮衣和燕尾服，大礼帽和鹳鸟可以轻松地在她优雅的暗色调色板上结合在一起，这个调色板偶尔也有令人意外的结合，比如黄绿色搭配长春花色，或者水仙黄搭配鸽灰色。”
A slender 6 foot 3 with cascading black hair — she towered over Mr. Jagger — Ms. Scott retained the appearance of the high-fashion model she once was, a profession she was ushered into serendipitously. In the mid-1980s, then known as Luann Bambrough, she met the photographer Bruce Weber, who was working on an advertising shoot in Utah, where she grew up. He took her picture, then encouraged her to move to Paris, advice she followed.
斯科特身高6英尺3英寸（约合1米9），十分苗条，留着瀑布般的黑发——比贾格尔高出一大截。她还保持着担任高级时装模特时的身材。她是偶然被领入模特行业的。她原名路安娜·班布拉(Luann Bambrough)，20世纪80年代中期遇到摄影师布鲁斯·韦伯(Bruce Weber)。韦伯当时在犹他州拍摄一个广告，而她就是在犹他州长大的。他给她拍了照片，鼓励她搬去巴黎。她听从了这个建议。
“I remember thinking, ‘God, you get paid to have your picture taken,’ ” she told The Times in 2008.
“我记得当时我想，‘天哪，有人给你拍照，还给你付钱’，”2008年她对《纽约时报》说。
Her career flourished quickly in Paris, propelled by the appearance of her long legs in an advertisement for Pretty Polly tights. Soon she appeared on runways for Chanel and Thierry Mugler and was photographed by Guy Bourdin for French Vogue. By then she had changed her name.
她的长腿在Pretty Polly紧身裤袜的广告中出现，推动她的事业在巴黎迅速发展。很快，她出现在香奈儿(Chanel)和蒂埃里·穆勒(Thierry Mugler)的秀台上，盖伊·伯丁(Guy Bourdin)还给她为法国版《Vogue》拍照。那时她已经改了名字。
By the mid-1990s she had moved to Los Angeles, where she shifted her professional perspective to behind the camera, initially as a stylist for the photographer Herb Ritts. In addition to creating costumes for “Ocean’s Thirteen,” a caper sequel starring Brad Pitt, George Clooney and Ms. Barkin, Ms. Scott designed clothes for Sharon Stone in the 1996 thriller “Diabolique” and for Ms. Barkin in the murder mystery “Mercy” (2000).
20世纪90年代中期，她搬到了洛杉矶，把事业重心转到了幕后，最初是为摄影师赫布·里茨(Herb Ritts)担任造型师。除了为《十三罗汉》设计戏服——《十三罗汉》是一部犯罪片的续集，由布拉德·皮特(Brad Pitt)、乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)和巴金主演——斯科特还为莎朗·斯通(Sharon Stone)在1996年的惊悚片《惊世第六感》(Diabolique)中设计戏服，为巴金在谋杀悬疑片《芳魂遗恨》(Mercy, 2000)中设计戏服。
She also worked on costumes for Stanley Kubrick’s final film, “Eyes Wide Shut” (1999), in which Ms. Kidman starred with her former husband, Tom Cruise, and she helped design the advertising campaign for a popular fragrance, Elizabeth Taylor’s White Diamonds.
她还为斯坦利·库布里克(Stanley Kubrick)的最后一部电影《大开眼戒》(Eyes Wide Shut, 1999)设计戏服，那部电影由妮可·基德曼和前夫汤姆·克鲁斯(Tom Cruise)主演。她还帮助伊丽莎白·泰勒(Elizabeth Taylor)的畅销香水白钻(White Diamonds)设计过广告。
It was in 2001, reportedly on a photo shoot with Mr. Ritts, that Ms. Scott met Mr. Jagger. A spokesman for Mr. Jagger, who is in Perth, Australia, on tour with the Rolling Stones, told the BBC that the singer was “completely shocked and devastated.”
据说，2001年在和里茨拍摄照片时，斯科特遇到了贾格尔。正在澳大利亚珀斯陪滚石乐队巡回演出的贾格尔的一位发言人告诉BBC，这位歌手“完全震惊了，崩溃了”。
Ms. Scott was born in Utah and grew up in Roy, just south of the city of Ogden, reared by adoptive parents, Ivan Bambrough, who worked for an insurance company and was a local official in the Mormon Church, and the former Lucy Randall.
斯科特出生在犹他州，在奥格登市南面的罗伊市由养父母伊万·班布拉(Ivan Bambrough)和露西·兰德尔(Lucy Randall)养大。她的养父曾为一家保险公司工作，还是摩门教会的地方领导。
Ms. Scott, who lived in London and Paris as well as New York, was married once and divorced. Her survivors include a brother, Randall.
斯科特曾在伦敦、巴黎和纽约居住，结过一次婚，后来离婚了。她在世的亲人包括一个兄弟和继母兰德尔。