After days of fevered speculation, charges of Photoshopping and retaliatory threats of legal action, as well as hundreds of tweets and retweets on the subject, Elle magazine sent out a news alert on Sunday afternoon that seemed designed to put the first big controversy of 2015 to rest:
经历数日激辩、对Photoshop软件的各种讨论、报复性的诉讼威胁，乃至成百上千条推特及回复，《Elle》杂志终于在星期日下午发布一条新闻通知，似乎旨在平息2015年的第一场大论战：
“Justin Bieber’s team officially confirms the size of his bulge.”
“贾斯汀·比伯的团队已正式确认他的裆部尺寸。”
Yes, the subject of whether crucial body parts of this 20-year-old pop singer had been digitally enhanced in a new ad campaign for Calvin Klein underwear was the talk of the Twitter universe last week, shortly after the first images of those ads surfaced, including on Mr. Bieber’s Instagram account.
是的，卡尔文·克莱因(Calvin Klein)内衣品牌的新一波广告宣传中用数码方式增大了这位20岁的流行歌手的关键器官的尺寸，上个星期，广告的第一批图像刚刚推出不久便成了Twitter上热议的话题（比伯的Instagram账户也发布了这些图片）。
The controversy was fueled by the website BreatheHeavy­.com, which seemed to have gotten its hands on an “unretouched” picture from the photo shoot by the fashion photographers Mert and Marcus, showing a decidedly less muscular Mr. Bieber and missing the trail of body hair leading down to his filled-out boxer briefs.
气喘吁吁网(BreatheHeavy.com)给这场争议火上加油，该网站似乎拿到了时尚摄影师梅尔特(Mert)和马库斯(Marcus)拍摄的“未经修改”照片，照片中比伯的肌肉显然没有那么发达，也没有体毛通向他饱满的四角紧身内裤。
The news was quickly jumped on by both fans and nonfans of the young singer — among them Rhea Durham, the wife of Mark Wahlberg, perhaps the best known of the former Calvin Klein underwear models and whose own photo shoot from 1992 was a direct inspiration for the new campaign.
无论是这位年轻歌手的粉丝，还是不是他粉丝的人，立即跳出来议论这条新闻，其中包括马克·沃尔伯格(Mark Wahlberg)的妻子雷亚·德拉姆(Rhea Durham)。沃尔伯格可能是最著名的前Calvin Klein内衣模特，他本人1992年的广告照片是这个新平面广告的直接灵感来源。
Ms. Durham tweeted: “My baby was the 1st and the best. And not to mention ­wow the retouching ­”
德拉姆发推特说：“我的宝贝是最棒的，更别提他的照片根本就是没修过的。”
The photos, some of which also featured the model Lara Stone wrapped seductively around Mr. Bieber, quickly became an Internet meme, and were the subject of dozens of parodies, including one by the talk show host Ellen DeGeneres, who posted an image of her head imposed on Ms. Stone’s body.
这组图片——包括模特劳拉·斯通(Lara Stone)以诱人的姿态缠绕着比伯先生的身体——立即在网上大火特火起来，而且被人玩坏了，其中一个是脱口秀主持人艾伦·德杰纳里斯(Ellen DeGeneres)，她把其中一幅图片上斯通女士的头换成了自己的。
But all good things must soon come to an end, and the Justin Bieber team went into action, insisting that the photos had not been altered in any way, and demanding that BreatheHeavy take down the disputed image and issue a retraction.
但天下没有不散的筵席，贾斯汀·比伯采取了行动，简称图片没有经过任何修饰，要求气喘吁吁网撤下引发争议的图片，并发表撤回申明。