Just how fast is Justin Bieber allowed to grow up? And how much? Mr. Bieber, the defining teen star of recent years, turned 18 in March and has been in the public eye for almost four years, long enough to begin chafing. His desire to move in the world as an adult is palpable, but the very scale of his celebrity exacts its own sort of toll. Mr. Bieber can be his own man, sure, so long as he continues to belong to everyone else too.
贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)究竟能获准以多快的速度长大？他又究竟该长到多大？比伯无疑是近年来最具有代表性的青春偶像。今年三月满18岁的他几乎有四年的时间都在公众的注视之下，时间长得足以让他心烦。他想以成年人的姿态进入世界的渴望显而易见，只是，他那巨大的知名度也导致他将为此付出相应的代价。比伯当然能够成为自己的主宰，只要与此同时，他还继续属于所有人。
As much as Mr. Bieber is pop music’s teen prince, he is also one of its victims. Mr. Bieber is in the difficult position of having a tremendous amount of capital to spend and only a few acceptable ways to spend it. He’s an R&B aspirant trapped in a pop universe, and subject to its whims.
尽管比伯是当今流行乐坛的小王子，他也同样深受其害。比伯的困境在于：他具备太多资本，但利用其资本的可行方法却太少。他心怀R&B梦想，但又被囚禁在流行乐坛，并且甘受摆布。
A pop star at his level has fewer options than you’d think. To make an album somehow out of lock step with the sounds of the day, and potentially come off as misdirected — or maybe worse, too forward thinking — would be to risk leaving food on the table. By that measure “Believe” (RBMG/Island) — his second full-length album, which is to be released on Tuesday — is gluttonous, full of savvy compromises: between Mr. Bieber’s natural gifts and the exigencies of radio; between warm, intimate vocals and music designed for arenas and nightclubs and arena-size nightclubs; between Mr. Bieber’s beloved R&B and the dance-oriented pop that’s currently in vogue.
像他这样级别的流行歌星拥有的选择权比你想象得少。某种程度上来说，制作一张不跟风的音乐专辑，方向不对，或者更糟糕的是想法太超前，这些都有可能让你白忙活一场。按这样的衡量标准，比伯的第二张大碟《Believe》（RBMG/Island唱片公司，6月12日发行）很贪心，充斥着各种识时务的妥协：在比伯的天赋与电台的需求之间；在温暖亲密的声线与为舞台、大小夜店设计的音乐之间；在比伯热爱的R&B与时尚的舞曲风流行乐之间。
His first full-length album, “My World 2.0,” was R&B at its core, only occasionally deviating from theme. But the rise of pummeling dance music as a mainstream aesthetic leaves Mr. Bieber, whose voice is sweet but not rickety, in an awkward position. Suddenly he has to find a way to mesh his delicate voice with music that’s designed for subwoofers and Red Bull cravers.
他的首张大碟《My World 2.0》以R&B为核心，仅偶有背离他的理想。但节奏强劲的舞曲越来越受欢迎，逐渐成为审美主流，这让音质甜美、不够摇摆的比伯陷入尴尬境地。突然间，他要被迫摸索出一个方法，让自己精致的音色去适应为低音炮和红牛爱好者们设计的音乐。
He’s tried this before. Singing the hook of Far East Movement’s dance-rap club anthem “Live My Life,” which was a hit this year, Mr. Bieber sounded bored, stripped of his beloved melisma, his gentleness no match for the song’s relentless synthetic thump.
比伯曾经做过此类尝试，当他唱着Far East Movement（远东韵律）乐团今年大热的饶舌舞曲《Live My Life》时，听来很无趣，他喜欢用的装饰音在这首歌里面全无用武之地，他温柔的气质与强劲的电子合成器节奏也完全不搭调。
It’s telling that “All Around the World,” the first song on “Believe,” opens with a synth progression that could have been lifted straight from an Afrojack or Laidback Luke production. And this on a song that features Ludacris. Again, Mr. Bieber is buried in the mix, and it appears the album might get away from him in a swell of concessions.
 《Believe》专辑中的第一首歌《All Around the World》，电子合成的前奏，听来简直是从Afrojack或Laidback Luke的专辑里直接搬过来的。它竟然用在了一首与Ludacris合作的歌曲里。比伯再次被埋没在混音里，经过不断的让步，这张专辑似乎离他本人越来越远。
But that’s followed by “Boyfriend,” the first single, which shifts gears radically, and impressively. Spooky and minimal, it’s Mr. Bieber’s formal coming-out party as an adult: hip-hop buzzword filigree, his dampest sounding vocals and whispered come-ons that most recall the naughty Ying Yang Twins hit “Wait (The Whisper Song).” Erotic and also cheerily naïve, it was the perfect statement for a young man learning to behave like a grown-up in the public eye, making for one of this year’s most electrifying singles.
但紧随其后的首支单曲《Boyfriend》，风格陡然一变、令人印象深刻。它的风格有点怪异，极其简约，就像是比伯作为成年人的一次正式亮相派对：时髦而华丽的嘻哈，最深沉的声线，以及不断的耳语，令人想起嘻哈组合Ying Yang Twins的热门单曲《Wait (The Whisper Song)》。它是性感的，但又带着兴高采烈的天真，一个年轻人正在公众视线下学习怎样做成年人，这是他发表的完美宣言，这首歌因此成为本年度最激动人心的单曲之一。
Those are, in essence, this album’s poles, the two impulses it needs to reconcile. Sometimes it takes on both at once, like on “As Long As You Love Me,” in effect a dubstep love song, with Mr. Bieber reaching into falsetto at points without losing power, and showing restraint at the chorus, laying out the obstacles that love can overcome: “We could be starving/We could be homeless/We could be broke.”
从本质上来说，以上两点是这张专辑的两极，它们有待调和。有时候这两极会同时登场，比如在歌曲《As Long As You Love Me》中，它是一首dubstep曲风的情歌，比伯假声飚到了高处仍不失力量感，而且在副歌中表现出克制力，在歌中他列举了爱情能够克服的障碍：“我们也许会饥肠辘辘/我们也许会无家可归/我们也许会一文不名。（We could be starving/We could be homeless/We could be broke）”
“Take You” also vacillates between up-tempo R&B and dance music theatrics, rendering Mr. Bieber all but anonymous.
《Take You》同样在R&B快歌和舞曲之间摇摆不定，这首歌中展现出的比伯几乎毫无特色可言。
But there are several places on this album where Mr. Bieber strips away that artifice and leans on his instincts, spotlighting his best self. “Believe” is a king-size ballad where he sings unfettered: “There were days when I was just broken, you know/There were nights when I was doubting myself/But you kept my heart from folding.”
但在这张专辑的有些地方，比伯剥去矫饰，倚赖直觉，显示了他最好的那一面。《Believe》可谓一张大号情歌专辑，比伯无拘无束地唱着：“那些日子当我消沉绝望，你明白/那些夜晚当我怀疑自己/但你令我不曾封闭自己的内心。”
That’s matched in intensity by the sun-dappled teen-crush soul of “Catching Feelings” and “Be Alright,” a guitar-driven number that recalls the Tony Rich Project, the underappreciated neo-soul classicist of the mid-1990s.
这与歌曲《Catching Feelings》和《Be Alright》传达出的阳光的少年恋情非常契合，而且《Be Alright》一曲中的吉他清弹令人回想起Tony Rich Project——那位被低估的1990年代中期新灵魂乐古典主义演奏者。
These are this album’s high points. And while Mr. Bieber and his producers — who include Rodney Jerkins, Adam Messinger and Nasri — largely find ways for him to work within a dance music framework without violating his soul principles, he still sounds more distant and less comfortable in those places.
以上是该专辑的亮点所在。尽管比伯与包括罗德尼·杰金(Rodney Jerkins)、亚当·梅辛格(Adam Messinger)和纳斯里(Nasri)等人在内的制作人团队，想尽办法在保证这张专辑的舞曲框架前提下找到他的歌路，同时又不违背比伯的灵歌特质，但他的歌声听起来反而更加遥远了，而且听来并不自然。
This album’s most dance-oriented and least successful moments illustrate just how hard it is for one artist, even one with the impact of Mr. Bieber, to shape the sound of pop music alone. He’s a big wave, but he’s not the whole ocean. And besides, the real experimentation and innovation is happening on the female side of pop, in the music of Katy Perry, Kesha and Rihanna. Mr. Bieber is moving slowly by comparison — and given where his strengths lie, wisely so.
这张专辑最具舞曲性和最不成功的部分正好说明，一个艺术家想单靠自己的实力影响流行乐实在太难了，即使是拥有像比伯这样的影响力的歌手也一样。他是一个巨浪，但却不是整个海洋。而且，真正的实验与创新发生在女流行歌手身上，在凯蒂·佩里(Katy Perry)、钱妞(Ke$ha)和蕾安娜(Rihanna)的音乐里。同她们相比，比伯的脚步慢了点——以他拥有的能量来看，这实乃明智之举。
The recent resurgence of boy bands notwithstanding, it remains an extraordinarily starved environment for young male pop stars. Mr. Bieber has the turf almost wholly to himself. Granted, a certain percent of his appeal comes down to pure hormones; he could release a country-meets-trance album and not alienate many of the young, female fans who are lining up to buy his posters and his fragrances too. But the screams are so loud they virtually block out the singing altogether.
男孩组合最近大有复苏之态，但在大环境下，年轻的流行男歌手仍然极度匮乏。整片领地几乎只属于比伯一人。诚然，一部分原因要纯粹归功于荷尔蒙；即使他出一张乡村混搭Trance专辑，依然不会吓跑那些排队买他海报和香水的年轻女粉丝。但是她们发出的尖叫声太高，完全盖过了他的演唱。
Which is a shame, because Mr. Bieber is developing into a gifted vocalist, far less reliant on technology than he was two years ago. His voice is limber and wounded, more credible when begging or retreating, as on “Fall” and “Right Here,” than when aiming to steam up the room, as on “Out of Town Girl.” And his falsetto consistently connects. He’s confident enough to weave a boast about it into the lyric of “Boyfriend”: “I dunno about me but I know about you/So say hello to falsetto in three, two,” which is then followed by an angelic, tender serenade. Many of the best songs on “Believe” are young-love ballads, the sort that would have been credible for Mr. Bieber even a couple of years ago, though he might not then have had the voice to deliver them properly.
这真让人遗憾，因为比伯正在成长为一个具有天赋的歌手，他对技术的依赖远远低于两年前。他的声音柔软而脆弱，在诠释乞求与放弃，比如歌曲《Fall》和《Right Here》，比诠释那些想要点燃气氛的歌曲，比如《Out of Town Girl》更令人动容。此外他的真假声连接流畅，因此能自信地在《Boyfriend》的歌词中炫耀这一点，“我不了解我但我了解你/所以问声好，用三两个假声(I dunno about me but I know about you/So say hello to falsetto in three, two)”，接着他的歌声转为天使般的温柔小夜曲。《Believe》中的不少好歌都是唱给年轻人的小情歌，那种即使几年前由比伯演唱也令人信服的音乐，不过他当时的声音可能无法准确诠释。
And so Mr. Bieber is not yet fully grown, and in his real life, he’s been doing his best to maintain at least a veneer of young-person normalcy. His hair, which formerly suffocated his forehead — giving him a signature look he couldn’t shake — is now mostly swept up and back, in the manner of most young bros. When the paparazzi catch him out with his girlfriend, the singer-actress and former Disney star Selena Gomez, they’re doing frustratingly normal things: eating Subway in a park, or picking up Chick-fil-A at the drive-through (though at least he’s driving his new chrome Fisker hybrid sports car, an 18th birthday gift from his manager).
他更希望成为迈克尔·杰克逊？
比伯还未完全长大，在现实生活中，他竭尽全力至少保持一名普通年轻人的外表。过去他那紧密覆盖在前额上的头发，是他无法摆脱的一个标签，如今几乎全都被向上向后梳，这正是时下大多数小伙子的模样。狗仔队抓拍到他和他的女朋友——歌手、演员和前迪士尼明星赛琳娜·戈麦斯(Selena Gomez)，他们不过是做着令人沮丧的日常琐事：在公园里吃赛百味，或是在Chick-fil-A汽车餐厅买快餐【不过至少他开的是一辆崭新的菲斯科铬合金混合动力跑车，这是经纪人送给他的18岁生日礼物】。
The last male teen-pop star who matured so publicly was Justin Timberlake. But he had more armor: he was emerging from a boy band, ’N Sync, and he didn’t release his first solo album until he was 21. That album, “Justified,” not only established Mr. Timberlake as an adult, but also was a landmark pop album, at the outset of the moment when hip-hop producers began to make records for pop stars. Mr. Timberlake was setting pop’s agenda.
上一位在公众眼中慢慢成熟的青春偶像是贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)。但是汀布莱克拥有更多的保护层，他从男孩组合“超级男孩”(’N Sync)中脱颖而出，直到21岁才发布首张个人专辑《Justified》。这张专辑不仅完成了贾斯汀向成人世界的转变，在流行乐坛也是一张具有里程碑意义的专辑，正好处于嘻哈音乐制作人开始为流行歌手制作专辑的时代。贾斯汀设定了流行乐坛的风向。
Mr. Bieber doesn’t have Mr. Timberlake’s backbone, or his experience, or his raw talent for that matter. So, perhaps wisely, he’s looking elsewhere for models of how he can publicly mature. Actually he’s aiming higher, conjuring perhaps the biggest and most conflicted teen star of all time, Michael Jackson. Jackson is sampled outright on “Die in Your Arms,” which borrows its loose jangle from “We’ve Got a Good Thing Going,” from the album “Ben,” released when Mr. Jackson was just 13. Mr. Bieber hones his vocals into a constrained yelp here, a sound that’s decidedly Jackson-esque, and not nearly as smooth as Mr. Bieber’s typical vocal approach.
比伯不具有贾斯汀那样的后盾、经验，以及他在这一领域的天赋。所以，他很明智地在别处寻找帮助自己在公众眼中成熟的模型。实际上，他把目标定得更高，那很可能是整个史上最著名也最具有争议性的青春偶像——迈克尔·杰克逊。比伯的《Die in Your Arms》明显在向杰克逊学习，歌曲采样了杰克逊的《We’ve Got a Good Thing Going》中的散漫噪响，这首歌出自杰克逊13岁时发布的专辑《Ben》。比伯在这首歌中磨砺自己的声音，发出那种杰克逊式的压抑的尖叫，但是远远不及他原本典型的发声方法来得圆润。
But the real wink comes on “Maria,” the final bonus track on the deluxe version of the album. Last year a woman named Mariah Yeater accused Mr. Bieber of being the father of her child. It was the first true adult scandal for Mr. Bieber, who’s never had to project the outright sexlessness of his Disney-raised teen pop peers, but who was nevertheless still a teenager when the charges landed, and no tabloid regular.
但是真正夺人眼球的是《Maria》，那是该专辑豪华版最后的附加曲目。去年，一位名叫玛丽亚·伊特(Mariah Yeater)的女子指控比伯是她孩子的父亲。这是比伯面对的第一桩真正意义上的成人丑闻，此前他从不需要像那些伴随着迪斯尼长大的青春流行偶像那样，表现自己的中性，但在指控真的落到头上时，他毕竟只是个少年，而且从来不是小报的常客。
The accusations have since been rescinded, but Mr. Bieber uses the situation as grist for “Maria,” the most aggressive song on this album, and one that self-consciously uses Jackson’s paranoiac “Billie Jean” as a template. Over a sinister and bouncy Rodney Jerkins beat Mr. Bieber sounds aggrieved: “This girl she wouldn’t stop/Almost had to call the cops/She was schemin’.”
该项指控已经被撤销了。但比伯借此创作了《Maria》，整张专辑中最激进的歌曲，并且他自觉使用了杰克逊偏执的《Billie Jean》为模板。透过制作人罗德尼·杰金那充满邪气的快节奏，比伯听起来忿忿不平：“那女孩她不打算停下/差点要去找警察/她在耍阴谋诡计。”
Mr. Bieber doesn’t quite have the gravity that Mr. Jackson did when he released “Billie Jean,” at 24, on “Thriller,” his sixth solo album, deep enough into his career that he’d doubtless been the target of countless schemers. But still he sounds credibly charged here, the only song on this album where he abandons his familiar vocal caress and still sounds comfortable.
比伯尚未具备杰克逊发行《Billie Jean》时的份量，当时杰克逊24岁，这首歌出自他第六张个人专辑《Thriller》，充分展现了他的职业深度，无庸置疑地，这令数不清的野心家们以此为奋斗目标。不管怎样，比伯在这首歌中表现得刚刚好，这是整张专辑中唯一一首他放弃了自己熟悉的声线但听来依然悦耳的歌曲。
It’ll take a few more years, and a few more conflagrations, before Mr. Bieber can make that angst the core of his music. For now, his only real battle is with the beat.
还需要再等几年，还需要一些磨练，比伯方才可能将焦灼化为音乐的核心。目前，他唯一真正的战斗便是跟着节拍走。