PROVIDENCE, R.I. — As the new year dawns on Rhode Island’s capital city, a place still suffering a hangover from the recession, there is renewed interest in a waterfront building that has been vacant since plans to create a museum and hotel there collapsed in 2008.
罗德岛普罗维登斯市——在罗德岛(Rhode Island)的首府，随着新一年的来临，尽管这里仍在经受经济衰退的后遗症，人们还是对水边一栋大楼重新产生了兴趣。2008年时，这里曾有修建一座博物馆和酒店的计划，但后来计划告吹，大楼也就一直处于空置的状态了。
Known popularly as Dynamo House — the name for the failed project begun in 2007 by Baltimore-based developer Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse — the building is a former power plant on the National Register of Historic Places, with distinctive arched windows and thick brick walls.
这座大楼广为人知，被称为“发电机房”(Dynamo House)——这也正是那个半途而废的地产项目的名称。该项目于2007年开始动工，开发商是来自巴尔的摩(Baltimore)的公司Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse。这栋楼的前身曾经是座发电厂，有厚厚的砖墙和拱形的窗户，在《国家史迹名录》(National Register of Historic Places)中记录在案。
Until recently, plans called for a 55,000-square-foot Rhode Island history museum that would be affiliated with the Smithsonian Institution in a portion of the old power plant. The Heritage Harbor Museum was to showcase Rhode Island’s diverse ethnic and cultural history and was the cherished dream of more than a dozen local cultural organizations.
直到最近，有计划要兴建一处面积55000平方英尺（约5109平方米）的罗德岛历史博物馆，将隶属于老电厂区域内的史密森尼协会(Smithsonian Instituion)。这座“港口遗迹博物馆”(Heritage Harbor Museum)将会陈列罗德岛各个少数民族的文化与历史，一直以来这都是当地十数家文化机构最珍视的梦想。
But now that dream and the future of Dynamo House itself are in flux.
然而现如今，这个梦想以及发电机房项目的未来，都变得前景难测了。
The property sits tangled in litigation. In recent weeks, the head of the nonprofit group that partnered with Struever Brothers and was overseeing the museum project said a museum in the former power plant was no longer feasible.
该地产项目已陷入诉讼的纷争。就在最近几周，与Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司合作、并负责博物馆项目监督工作的非营利组织负责人说，在老电厂内修建博物馆是行不通的。
Museum economics have changed considerably in the last five years, said Ken Orenstein, interim executive director of the nonprofit group, Heritage Harbor Corporation. “The building plan is not viable,” Mr. Orenstein said.
博物馆经济学在过去的五年中，已经发生了相当大的变化，非营利组织“港口遗迹社团”(Heritage Harbor Corporation)的临时执行董事肯·奥伦斯坦(Ken Orenstein)说，“这项建筑计划没有可行性。”
At the same time, a new investment group named Dynamo House Funding L.L.C., which is affiliated with the Baltimore-based Harbor East Development Group, has taken over Struever Brothers’ position in the property by acquiring the developer’s mortgage with Citibank. It plans to secure the building and make it fit for a different type of development, Mr. Orenstein said.
与此同时，又有一家新的投资集团通过收购花旗银行向Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司发放的抵押贷款，取代后者接管了这一地产项目。该投资集团叫做“发电机房基金有限公司”(Dynamo House Funding L.L.C.)，隶属于巴尔的摩的东港开发集团(Harbor East Development Group)。奥伦斯坦说，新的投资集团打算保护这栋建筑，并以完全不同的模式对其进行开发。
According to James S. Bennett, director of economic development for Providence, “serious” possible tenants have looked at the building in recent months, though he declined to say who they were. Sources knowledgeable about the site said that Brown University might be interested since Dynamo House is in the city’s Jewelry District, where Brown has expanded in recent years.
据普罗维登斯的经济发展负责人詹姆士·S·贝内特(James S. Bennett)说，最近几个月，已经有几个“很有”意向的租户来看过这栋建筑物，不过他拒绝透露这些租户的信息。有知情人士指出，布朗大学(Brown University)可能会对这里很感兴趣，因为发电机房项目就在市内的黄金地带，而布朗大学近些年来一直在此扩张。
Mr. Bennett said the city had made finding a new use for the building a priority, and would not consider the alternative: “It’s not going to be torn down,” he said.
贝内特说，本市已经在优先考虑为这栋大楼找个新用途了，而不会考虑另一种可能：“这栋建筑不会被拆除。”
The new group is in the process of trying to clear the property’s title, which was muddied by mechanics’ liens after Struever Brothers left Providence in 2009, leaving several subcontractors unpaid. It also must remove an easement on the property, which states that a museum must be built on the site, Mr. Bennett said.
那家新的投资集团正在努力明确该地产项目的所有权归属。2009年，Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司撤离普罗维登斯后，有几家承包商没拿到工程款，因而造成了施工留置权(mechanics’ liens)的混乱。除此之外，新投资集团也必须把该项目中的一项地役权去掉，因为该地役权规定，此地必须修建博物馆，贝内特说。
To that end, negotiations are under way between Dynamo House Funding and Heritage Harbor over the value of the easement, and efforts are being made to reach out to the subcontractors in Rhode Island to whom Struever Brothers owes money. According to records in Providence Superior Court, a dozen or so individuals and companies contend that Struever Brothers never paid them for work they did on Dynamo House.
出于这样的原因，发电机房基金有限公司与港口遗迹社团正在进行谈判，讨论地役权的价值，并对被Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司欠下工程款的几家承包商采取了一些措施。根据普罗维登斯高等法院的记录，约有十几家公司与个体户申诉说，Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司对他们在发电机房工程中所做的工作从没有付过钱。
“It was a big mess,” said Joseph J. Reale Jr., a Providence lawyer who represents two of the subcontractors seeking payment.
“情况十分混乱，”普罗维登斯的律师小约瑟夫·雷亚莱(Joseph J. Reale Jr.)说。他正在为这些承包商讨债。
Struever Brothers originally planned a $137 million conversion of the power plant, including the development of a “five star” waterfront hotel. In a 2007 agreement, Heritage Harbor gave Struever Brothers title to the property in exchange for development of the museum space.
最开始，Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司对电厂改造计划的总预算是1.37亿美元（约合人民币8.64亿元），包括在水边修建一座“五星级”酒店。在2007年的一项协议中，港口社团把该地产项目的所有权交给Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司，以此换取博物馆的开发空间。
But, walloped by a sinking economy, Struever Brothers abandoned the project. Construction had started in 2007, but didn’t last long; for the last four years, the property has been vacant and exposed to the elements.
然而，由于经济急剧下滑，Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司放弃了这项开发计划。虽然此项目已经在2007年开始施工，但建设工作并未持续很久；过去四年来，这栋大楼一直被空置，经受着风吹雨打。
C. William Struever, a principal partner in Struever Brothers and the company’s founder, said the Dynamo House project was “very sad for me” and a “heartache” because his company could not complete it. He said he was happy the new entity would step in to make the property usable. He said he was optimistic for the city and would do what he could in his limited capacity to see Dynamo House rehabilitated.
Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司的主要合伙人兼公司创始人C·威廉·斯特鲁弗(C. William Struever)说，发电机房的项目“让我感到非常难过”，而且这还是个“让人头疼”的问题，因为该公司已经无法完成这一工作了。他说，他很高兴能有新的企业进来承担这个项目并使其投入使用。他还说，他对这个城市的前景感到乐观，并且会在自己有限的能力范围内，尽其所能让发电机房项目恢复原貌。
A prominent East Coast developer that specializes in the adaptive reuse of abandoned industrial buildings, Struever Brothers had a number of projects under way in Rhode Island in 2007, in addition to Dynamo House. These included mill renovations in the town of West Warwick and a $300 million mixed-use project in Providence.
Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司作为东海岸一个优秀的开发商，专业于弃置工业建筑的改造再利用工作。2007年，除了发电机房项目，他们在罗德岛还进行了其它几个项目，包括西沃里克镇(West Warwick)的厂房改造，以及普罗维登斯市一个3亿美元（约合人民币18.93亿元）的多功能大楼项目。
But by 2008, when work stopped at Dynamo House and at other Struever projects here, it became apparent that the developer was experiencing financial trouble. Eventually, Struever Brothers defaulted on nearly $6 million in loans. In Providence, the company laid off workers and shut down its office in 2009.
但是到了2008年，发电机房项目以及斯特鲁弗在当地的其它项目都停工了，很明显，是该公司的财务出现了问题。Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司最终拖欠了将近600万美元（约合人民币3785万元）贷款。于是这家公司于2009年在普罗维登斯市解散了员工，并关闭了办公室。
Some people say they were mistreated by Struever Brothers, “and other people say they did some good things for the city,” said John Sinnott, who was let go from his position as Rhode Island director of operations for the company in June 2008.
有些人说Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司对他们太刻薄，“另一些人则说，他们为这座城市做了些好事，”约翰·辛诺特(John Sinnott)这样说。2008年6月，他从该公司的罗德岛运营负责人这一职位上退了下来。 
Before the company’s fortunes soured, Struever Brothers had successfully rehabilitated several blighted properties in Rhode Island, including three former mill buildings in Providence. In the mid-2000s, Struever Brothers’ Web site estimated its investment in the state to be $500 million.
财务危机出现之前，Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司在罗德岛也曾成功修复了几座衰败的建筑，其中包括普罗维登斯市内的三处曾经的临时厂房。在2005年左右，斯特鲁弗兄弟公司曾预估过，它在该州的投资将达到5亿美元（约合人民币31.54亿元）。
A 2008 change to Rhode Island’s historic tax credit program, which provides a financial benefit to developers of historic properties, created a shortfall in the project’s funding.
2008年时，旨在为涉历史遗迹地产项目的开发商提供财政优惠的“罗德岛的历史遗迹税收奖励计划”(historic tax credit program)出现了变故，导致该地产项目就出现了资金缺口。
Mr. Struever once estimated the gap at $9 million. Struever Brothers’ lender on a $23 million construction loan, Citibank, stopped making disbursement on the Dynamo House project in 2009.
斯特鲁弗曾经预估资金缺口为900万美元（约合人民币5508.45万元），而花旗银行也于2009年开始，停止为发电机房项目继续拨款。此前，斯特鲁弗的公司从这家银行贷到了一笔2.3亿美元（约合人民币14.08亿元）的建设贷款。
Advocates for the museum said they understand that the recession created unforeseeable problems for Struever Brothers, though they wish the developer had been more forthcoming, and sooner, about its financial difficulties.
博物馆项目的拥护者说，他们知道经济衰退对Struever Brothers Eccles & Rouse公司造成了很多不可预见的问题，不过他们还是希望，这家开发商能对自身的财务困难更有预见性，并能更加迅速地应对。
“I don’t agree with the way they walked away from the project,” said Patrick Conley, a Providence lawyer and member of Heritage Harbor’s board.
“我不认同他们从该项目中撤离的方式，”普罗维登斯市的一名律师帕特里克·康利(Patrick Conley)说。他也是港口遗迹社团理事会的成员。
The nonprofit has had to redefine its goals because of the aborted Dynamo House project, Mr. Conley and others said.
由于发电机房项目的夭折了，这家非营利组织就不得不重新定义自己的目标，康利和其他人都这样说。
Now, instead of building a museum, it will create a foundation to further its mission of educating Rhode Islanders about their history.
现在，虽然博物馆建不成了，但该组织可以成立一项基金，以便继续践行对罗德岛人进行历史文化教育的宗旨。
Mr. Struever has opened a new development firm in Baltimore, called Cross Street Partners, which won a $3 million grant from the state of Maryland in 2011 to convert a former printing plant in Baltimore.
而斯特鲁弗已经在巴尔的摩成立了一家新的房地产开发公司，名为Cross Street Partners。2011年，这家公司从马里兰州获得了一笔300万美元（约合人民币1836.15万元）的拨款，用来改造巴尔的摩的一家老印刷厂。