Donald J. Trump’s charitable foundation will not be paying any of the $25 million settlement to resolve a series of lawsuits concerning Trump University, the president-elect’s defunct for-profit education venture that drew customer complaints about price gouging.
为解决一系列与特朗普大学有关的诉讼而达成的和解协议所涉的2500万美元，将不会由唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的慈善基金会支付。特朗普大学是这位候任总统以前进行的营利性教育经营项目，如今已经停办。有学员指控该教育机构存在价格欺诈行为。
Representatives for Mr. Trump sent a one-paragraph letter on Friday to Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general, stating that no funding for the settlement would come from “any charitable foundation or other charitable entity.”
特朗普的代表上周五给纽约州总检察长埃里克·T·施耐德曼(Eric T. Schneiderman)发了一封只有一段文字的信函，表示这项和解协议的资金不会来自“任何慈善基金会或其他慈善机构”。
A copy of the letter, from Alan Garten, executive vice president and general counsel for the Trump Organization, was reviewed by The New York Times. Mr. Garten did not respond to a request for comment.
这封信出自特朗普集团(Trump Organization)执行副总裁兼法律总顾问阿兰·加腾(Alan Garten)之手，《纽约时报》查看了该信件的一个副本。加兰没有回应时报的置评请求。
In the past, Mr. Trump has used money from his charitable foundation, the Donald J. Trump Foundation, to settle lawsuits arising from his business and personal activities. Last month, in the heat of the presidential campaign, The Washington Post reported that more than a quarter of a million dollars from Mr. Trump’s charity had been used to settle legal disputes.
过去，特朗普曾使用他的慈善基金会唐纳德·J·特朗普基金会(Donald J. Trump Foundation)的资金解决生意和个人活动引发的诉讼。上个月，在总统竞选处在胶着状态时，《华盛顿邮报》报道了特朗普慈善基金会有超过25万美元的资金被用于解决法律纠纷。
“Given Mr. Trump’s reported history of using his charity’s money to fund his and his businesses’ legal settlements, we demanded written assurance that the Trump University settlement would not be paid for by any charitable entity,” said Amy Spitalnick, a spokeswoman for the state attorney general.
“考虑到外界称特朗普有利用慈善资金解决个人及生意上的法律纠纷的历史，我们要求提供书面保证，确保特朗普大学的和解资金不会来自任何慈善机构，”总检察长的发言人埃米·斯皮塔尔尼克(Amy Spitalnick)说。
Mr. Schneiderman sued Trump University in 2013, and his office helped negotiate the settlement, which also resolved two class-action lawsuits filed in federal court in San Diego. One of those suits was scheduled to go to trial in a few days. The settlement foreclosed the possibility of a potentially embarrassing situation for Mr. Trump as he moves forward in putting together his administration.
斯皮塔尔尼克在2013年对特朗普大学提起了诉讼，他的办公室协助达成了这项和解协议，该协议同时解决了两项在圣迭戈联邦法院提起的集体诉讼。其中一起诉讼原本会在几天后开审。和解协议令正在组建政府的特朗普得以避免陷入一个十分尴尬的境地。
During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he did not like settling lawsuits and insisted that students found Trump University to be “wonderful” and “beautiful.” He took to Twitter early Saturday to say: “The only bad thing about winning the presidency is that I did not have the time to go through a long but winning trial on Trump U. Too bad!”
在竞选期间，特朗普曾表示他不喜欢和解官司，坚称学生们觉得特朗普大学“很棒”、“漂亮”。上周六早，他在Twitter上表示：“赢得总统选举唯一的坏处就是，我没时间就特朗普大学的诉讼经历长时间的庭审然后胜诉。真遗憾！”
The lawsuits said that Trump University, which was in business from 2004 to 2010, cheated students out of thousands of dollars in tuition through high-pressure sales tactics and deceptive claims about the program. About 7,000 students will be eligible to recoup some of the money they spent on tuition. The settlement still requires the court’s approval.
诉讼显示，在2004年至2010年运营的特朗普大学曾通过高压销售策略和有关该课程的虚假宣传，骗取学生数千美元学费。有大约7000名学生有资格拿回他们支付的一部分学费。这项协议还需要获得法院的批准。
Some Trump University students paid as much as $35,000 in tuition. One of them, Jeffrey Tufenkian told The New York Times in 2011 that his experience at Trump University “was almost completely worthless.” He said the program had wiped out much of his and his wife’s savings.
特朗普大学的一些学生支付了高达3.5万美元的学费。其中的杰夫里·图芬吉安(Jeffrey Tufenkian)曾在2011年告诉《纽约时报》，他在特朗普大学的经历“几乎完全没价值”。他表示，这个课程用掉了他和妻子的大部分积蓄。
It was not known whether an insurance policy taken out by Trump University would cover any part of the settlement.
目前还不清楚特朗普大学提取的一份保单能否覆盖部分和解资金。
Customarily, settlements can be taken as a tax deduction by a business, and that appears to be the case in this situation. However, a $1 million penalty for violating state education laws in New York, which is part of the settlement package, may not qualify for a deduction.
和解资金通常可以被企业当税额减免，在本案中似乎也是如此。不过，因违反纽约州教育法而被处罚的100万美元罚金——和解协议的一部分——可能无法抵税。