WASHINGTON — Susan E. Rice, President Obama’s national security adviser, sharply criticized Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Tuesday over his plans to address a joint meeting of Congress next week, saying his actions had hurt his nation’s relationship with the United States.
华盛顿——针对以色列总理本雅明·内塔尼亚胡(Benjamin Netanyahu)下周在国会联合会议上发表演讲的计划，奥巴马总统的国家安全顾问苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)在周二提出了尖锐批评，称他的行为已经影响到了以色列和美国的关系。
Mr. Netanyahu’s decision to travel to Washington to deliver the speech two weeks before the Israeli elections has “injected a degree of partisanship, which is not only unfortunate, I think it’s destructive of the fabric of the relationship,” Ms. Rice said in an interview on the PBS television program “Charlie Rose.”
赖斯在接受美国公共电视网(PBS)电视节目《查理·罗斯》(Charlie Rose)的采访时说，内塔尼亚胡决定在离以色列大选还有两周时前往华盛顿发表讲话的决定，“造成了一定程度的党派分歧，这种分歧不仅令人遗憾，我认为它还会破坏两国关系的基础。”
Her comments marked the strongest public rebuke to date by the Obama administration since Mr. Netanyahu accepted an invitation from Speaker John A. Boehner to make his case to Congress against a nuclear deal with Iran, which is a priority of Mr. Obama’s. It is also the frankest acknowledgment yet by a top American official of the degree to which the controversy has damaged United States-Israeli relations.
她的此番言论，是自内塔尼亚胡接受议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)的邀请，计划向美国国会陈述反对同伊朗签署核协议的理由以来，奥巴马政府发出的最严厉的公开指责。同伊朗签署核协议是奥巴马的头等大事。这也是高级别美国高官就此事对两国关系的影响做出的最为坦率的表述。
The speech, scheduled for March 3, was arranged by Mr. Boehner and the Israeli ambassador without consulting the White House — a move that Mr. Obama’s team has called a breach of protocol.
内塔尼亚胡的讲话定于3月3日进行，是由博纳和以色列大使安排的，事先未咨询白宫。奥巴马的团队称，此举违反外交礼仪。
The president has said he will not meet with Mr. Netanyahu during his visit to avoid any appearance that he is trying to influence the Israeli elections that are scheduled for mid-March.
奥巴马总统表示不会在内塔尼亚胡访美期间与其会晤，以避免产生他在试图影响以色列大选的印象。以色列大选定于3月中旬举行。
The episode is a low point in the tense relationship between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu and has touched off weeks of mostly anonymous sniping and finger-pointing.
此事是奥巴马与内塔尼亚胡之间的紧张关系的一个低点，引发了持续数周的抨击和相互指责，但大多是匿名做出的。
Top administration officials have hinted more openly of their displeasure in recent days.
而最近几天，奥巴马政府的高级官员用更为公开的方式表达了自己的不悦。
The White House on Wednesday said that Mr. Obama agreed with Ms. Rice’s assessment, saying he had raised the same concerns several times.
白宫周三表示，奥巴马同意赖斯的评价，称他已多次提出同样的担忧。
Her comments, said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, are “entirely consistent with what the president has already said.”
白宫发言人乔希·欧内斯特(Josh Earnest)说，她的论述“与总统的表述完全相符”。
“Allowing this relationship to be subjected to party politics does weaken the relationship,” Mr. Earnest said.
“让党派政治去影响两国关系，这的确会削弱这种关系，”欧内斯特说。
Mr. Earnest said he did not know whether Mr. Obama and Ms. Rice had talked in advance of the interview about what she would say about Mr. Netanyahu’s visit.
欧内斯特表示，自己不清楚在赖斯接受采访前，是否曾与奥巴马商谈就内塔尼亚胡访美一事该作何表述。
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who as president of the Senate would be expected to attend, has said he will be traveling abroad. Secretary of State John Kerry said Tuesday that he would be in Switzerland negotiating with the Iranians. The White House has also not committed to sending a representative next week to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee’s conference, where Mr. Netanyahu is also scheduled to appear.
作为参议院议长，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)本应参会，但他已经表示，自己到时候将不在国内。国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)周二称，他届时会在瑞士与伊朗举行谈判。内塔尼亚胡还将在下周出席美国以色列公共事务委员会(American Israel Public Affairs Committee)的会议，白宫同样没有表示将派代表参加这一会议。
The Israeli prime minister himself has turned down a request by Democratic senators for a private meeting, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said Tuesday.
来自伊利诺伊州的民主党参议员理查德·J·德宾(Richard J. Durbin)在周二说，以色列总理本身也拒绝了民主党参议员提出的私下会面的请求。
“We offered the prime minister an opportunity to balance the politically divisive invitation from Speaker Boehner with a private meeting with Democrats who are committed to keeping the bipartisan support of Israel strong,” Mr. Durbin said in a statement. “His refusal to meet is disappointing to those of us who have stood by Israel for decades.”
“我们向总理提出了这个机会，与致力于保持两党对以色列的强大支持的民主党人进行私下会面，从而缓和博纳议长的邀请所引发的政治分歧，”德宾在声明中说。“他的拒绝令我们这些数十年来一直支持以色列的人感到失望。”
In a letter released by Mr. Durbin’s office, Mr. Netanyahu said such a meeting “could compound the misperception of partisanship regarding my upcoming visit.”
在德宾的办公室公布的一封信函中，内塔尼亚胡表示，这样的会面“可能会使我此次访问造成的党派误解进一步加深”。
Mr. Netanyahu said Tuesday that he was making the trip because it was his obligation to “do everything I can to prevent” a nuclear agreement with Iran.
内塔尼亚胡周二表示，他决定访问美国，是因为自己有责任“竭尽所能来防止”其他国家与伊朗达成核协议。
“Therefore, I will go to Washington to address the American Congress, because the American Congress is likely to be the final brake before the agreement between the major powers and Iran,” he said as he toured a military base in southern Israel.
“因此，我会到华盛顿向美国国会发表演讲，因为美国国会很可能是阻止一些大国与伊朗达成协议的最后一股制动力，”他在考察以色列南部的一处军事基地时说。
Ms. Rice demurred when asked whether she believed Mr. Netanyahu was making the speech to gain political favor.
在被问到自己是否认为内塔尼亚胡的这次演讲是为了捞取政治利益时，赖斯没有明确回答。