CHILMARK, Mass. — Each morning last week, Susan E. Rice called or came to a secluded contemporary house here, intelligence reports at hand, to brief President Obama about the chaotic world that has followed him on vacation.
马萨诸塞州奇尔马克——上周，苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)每天早上都会给这里一处僻静的现代风格住宅打电话，或拿着情报报告亲自过来，向奥巴马总统汇报在他度假期间，这片混乱的世界发生了些什么。
On Wednesday, Ms. Rice, the national security adviser, delivered a particularly troubling report: Egypt’s military had begun a bloody operation to clear two camps of demonstrators protesting on behalf of that country’s ousted president, Mohamed Morsi. Among the options she laid out was a plan already on the table to pull the United States from joint military exercises with Egypt.
周三，国家安全顾问赖斯递交了一份令人特别不安的报告：埃及军方开始进行一场血腥行动，对聚集着代表该国被免职的总统穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)进行抗议的示威者的两处营地进行清场。她列举的可选对策包括一项已经摆到明面上的计划，即美军退出同埃及进行的联合军演。
After Mr. Obama left to play golf, Ms. Rice, 48, returned to her own lodgings to consult with aides at the White House. After 5 p.m., the two spoke again, and Mr. Obama signed off on the plan.
奥巴马去打高尔夫后，48岁的赖斯回到自己的临时住处，与身在白宫的助手商讨。下午5点后，两人再次进行了交谈，奥巴马批准了该计划。
The turmoil in Egypt, which erupted in early July just as she took up her job, has presented the toughest test yet for Ms. Rice, who in six weeks has already dealt with a terrorist scare that prompted the closing of embassies across the Middle East and with the latest chapter in deteriorating relations with Russia: the saga of Edward J. Snowden, a former National Security Agency contractor, which led Mr. Obama to cancel a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.
埃及的骚乱爆发于7月初，正是她接手这份工作之时。骚乱为赖斯带来了最严峻的考验。六个星期里，她已经应对了恐怖分子的一次恐吓，迫使美国在整个中东地区的大使馆关闭，此外，美国同俄罗斯的关系也进一步恶化：前国家安全局(National Security Agency)承包商雇员爱德华·J·斯诺登事件促使奥巴马取消了同俄罗斯总统弗拉基米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)的会面。
Given her reputation as an outspoken defender of human rights and advocate of American intervention to prevent abuses, some analysts wondered if Ms. Rice, a former United Nations ambassador, would bring a more muscular, idealistic cast to Mr. Obama’s foreign policy.
考虑到她被誉为直言不讳的人权捍卫者，而且提倡美国进行干预，防止出现暴虐现象，一些分析人士想知道身为前美国驻联合国大使的赖斯是否会给奥巴马的外交政策带来一抹更强硬、更理想化的色彩。
Aides said her counsel on Egypt, however, had been resolutely pragmatic: signal America’s displeasure by canceling the military exercises and holding up the delivery of F-16 fighter jets, but avoid rupturing a four-decade relationship with Egypt’s military leaders.
然而，助手称她在埃及问题上的建议绝对属于务实性的：通过取消军演和暂停交付F-16战斗机表达美国的不满，但也避免同埃及军方四十年的关系破裂。
“She has wanted to preserve the relationship,” said a senior administration official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations. “She’s pretty realistic on some of these issues.”
“她希望保持住这种关系，”一名因涉及内部商讨内容而要求匿名的官员说，“她在这类问题上是非常现实的。”
The mere fact that Ms. Rice has traveled to Martha’s Vineyard this week attests to her closeness to the president. She is the first national security adviser to make one of Mr. Obama’s vacation trips, which were staffed in the past by aides like Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, and Denis R. McDonough, the chief of staff, whose history with Mr. Obama goes back to the 2008 campaign.
仅赖斯本周前往玛莎葡萄园岛(Martha's Vineyard)这个事实便证明了她与总统之间关系密切。她是首位陪同奥巴马一起度假的国家安全顾问，过去，陪同奥巴马度假的通常是副国家安全顾问本杰明·J·罗兹( Benjamin J.Rhodes)和白宫幕僚长丹尼斯·R·麦克多诺(Denis R.McDonough)，后者与奥巴马的交好始于2008年的大选。
People who know Ms. Rice said she aspires to be not just a confidante and internal broker of policy options for the president — as was the model for previous national security advisers — but also a strategic thinker and a public voice for foreign policy.
了解赖斯的人说，她不仅渴望成为总统的知己，为他在内部安排可选政策——之前的国家安全顾问都是这么做的——还希望自己是一个战略思考者和外交政策的公开发言人。
If so, Egypt may be a hard policy to sell. The administration’s reluctance to cast off the Egyptian military is exposing it to criticism that it is tolerating a brutal regime with no plans to return Egypt to democracy and no qualms about gunning down its people. Ms. Rice, officials said, will have to judge how much bloodshed the United States can stomach.
如果这样，对埃及的政策恐怕是很难让人信服的。联邦政府正因不愿断绝同埃及军方的关系而广受诟病，被指正在容忍一个残暴的政权，这个政权没有让埃及回归民主的计划，对枪杀自己的人民也没有丝毫不安。官员称，赖斯必须对美国能忍受多少杀戮进行判断。
It is a familiar quandary. Ms. Rice pushed Mr. Obama to back a NATO intervention against Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya and has expressed regret, as an official involved in the debate, that the Clinton administration did not do more to prevent the genocide in Rwanda in 1994.
这一窘境并不陌生。赖斯曾力促奥巴马支持北约(NATO)针对利比亚穆阿迈尔·卡扎菲上校(Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)进行干预，而且，身为参与讨论的官员，她对克林顿政府未能采取更多行动阻止1994年的卢旺达大屠杀表达了遗憾。
Bruce O. Riedel, a former intelligence official who worked with Ms. Rice during the Clinton years, likened her predicament to that of Zbigniew Brzezinski, the national security adviser to Jimmy Carter, who watched helplessly in 1979 as an Islamic revolution in Iran turned that country away from the United States for decades.
曾在克林顿时期和赖斯共事过的前情报官员布鲁斯·O·里德尔(Bruce O. Riedel)把她的窘境和兹比格涅夫·布热津斯基(Zbigniew Brzezinski)的遭遇相提并论，后者是吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)时期的国家安全顾问，在1979年无助地看着伊朗的伊斯兰革命让美伊两国在今后几十年里陷入反目成仇的境地。
“Obama and Rice are in the same place as Jimmy Carter and Zbig Brzezinski were in 30 years ago,” Mr. Riedel said. “You know that what’s happening is extremely important, but you are a bystander to the big decisions. It’s a really, really tough call because your leverage is minimal.”
里德尔说，“奥巴马和赖斯的处境，与吉米·卡特和兹比格涅夫·布热津斯基30年前的处境是一样的。你知道，现在发生的事情极为重要，可你只是重大决定的旁观者。这是极其艰难的抉择，因为你手头没什么可倚仗的优势。”
Shadows of the past hang over another major issue, the terrorist threat in Yemen, which led the administration, after a series of meetings led by Ms. Rice, to close 19 American embassies and consulates across the Arab world for nearly a week.
过去的阴影困扰着另一个重大问题，那就是来自也门的恐怖主义威胁，经过赖斯主持的一系列会谈后，该威胁迫使美国政府关闭了驻19个阿拉伯国家的大使馆和领事馆，关闭时间长达将近一周。
Some critics contended that she had overreacted because of her searing experience after the attacks on the American diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya, when she was accused of presenting a sanitized account of the episode on Sunday talk shows.
一些批评者认为，她的反应过度了，原因是对美国驻利比亚班加西外交使团的遇袭给赖斯带去的痛苦经历，当时有人指责她在周日的脱口秀节目中粉饰此次事件。
Yemen’s government said closing the embassies had served “the interests of extremists” and undermined its cooperation with the United States on counterterrorism. At home, Fox News characterized Ms. Rice as the driving force behind the decision.
也门政府说，关闭大使馆迎合了“极端主义者的利益，”破坏了也门和美国之间的反恐合作。在美国国内，Fox新闻频道(Fox News)称赖斯为该决定的幕后推手。
Administration officials said Ms. Rice was reflecting a generally heightened level of caution within the White House because of intelligence suggesting American embassies are a “soft target” for terrorist groups like Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.
一名美国政府官员说，赖斯的行动反映出白宫内的警惕级别普遍提高了，原因是有情报显示，美国大使馆是阿拉伯半岛基地组织(Al Qaeda)等恐怖组织的“软目标”。
Ms. Rice’s pragmatism is no surprise to those who worked with her at the United Nations or in the Clinton administration, where she had a previous stint in the National Security Council. But White House officials say they have been struck by her management style, which they call more inclusive than that of her predecessors.
那些曾在联合国 (United Nations)或克林顿政府时期和赖斯共事过的同僚，对她的实用主义作风已司空见惯，当时她在联合国安理会(National Security Council)任职。然而有白宫官员说，她的管理风格一直让他们感到震惊，他们说，在管理上她比她的前任们更具包容性。
When the White House was deliberating whether Mr. Obama should cancel a meeting with Mr. Putin after Russia granted asylum to Mr. Snowden, Ms. Rice brought Michael A. McFaul, the ambassador to Moscow, into the debate among top officials. Mr. McFaul argued that the president should not go.
俄罗斯向斯诺登提供庇护之后，白宫开始讨论奥巴马是否应该取消与普京的会晤，当时赖斯把美国驻俄罗斯大使迈克尔·A·麦克福尔(Michael A. McFaul)也拉入了高官们的讨论之中，麦克福尔主张，总统不应该去俄罗斯会晤普京。
“Susan deserves credit for leading the U.S. government to make such a hard, and correct, decision,” he said.
他说，“苏珊理应为引导美国政府做出如此艰难而正确的决定受到赞扬。”