In a workshop strewn with plastic, metals and the sound of crickets, craftsmen in the village of Yanjian, in Henan Province, are busy producing bronze works: horses, daggers, bells and ritual vessels — and all made to look like ancient Chinese relics.
这是位于河南省烟涧村的一个小作坊，塑料和金属散落其间，还能听到蛐蛐的叫声。作坊里的工匠正忙于制作青铜器：马、匕首、钟，以及礼器——所有这些都会被弄成中国古代文物的样子。
After creating molds and casting the objects in bronze, workers place them in acid tubs and bury them underground for months at a time, hoping to recreate the effects of aging and produce works that looks as if they had just been unearthed from an ancient tomb.
在制作好模具，并浇铸出这些青铜器物之后，工人们会把它们放进盛有酸性液体的容器中浸泡，接着还要把它们埋到地下，一埋就是好几个月，希望可以再现因年代久远而腐蚀老化的效果，让生产出的物品看起来就像刚从古墓里挖出来一样。
“Of course, we douse them with chemicals and bury them,” said one of the guides at the Yanyunjian Bronze Company, explaining the company’s production techniques and referring to the tradition of reproducing ancient bronze objects. “But this is a lot less disgusting than what they did during the 1970s and 1980s. Back then, they would soak the stuff in urine and animal excrement.”
“当然，我们会把它们浸入化学溶液里，还要把它们埋起来。”在解释烟云涧青铜器有限公司的生产工艺，并谈论仿制古代青铜器的传统时，该公司的一位向导说。“但与此相比，他们在上世纪七八十年的做法要恶心得多。那时会用尿液和动物粪便浸泡这些物件。”
All over China, hundreds, if not thousands, of workshops are doing something similar, producing replicas of ancient relics and artifacts, in bronze, ceramics, jade and silver. Some workshops specialize in paintings made in the style of an ancient master, using old paper, inks and seals.
在整个中国，即使没有成千上万家，也有成百上千家作坊，在做类似的事情，用青铜、陶瓷、玉石和白银仿制文物和古董。有些作坊则专门用老旧的纸张、墨汁和印章，模仿古代大师风格的画作。
While many objects are marketed for what they are — high-quality replicas, or imitations of old works — experts say the most sophisticated pieces are good enough to fool connoisseurs and often sell at Chinese auction houses, helping fuel this country’s booming art market.
许多东西都会在市场上以本来面目示人，标称为古董的高仿品或临摹品。但专家称，制作得最为精良那些物件足以骗过内行，常常会被人放在中国的拍卖行里出售，从而推动了这个国家蓬勃发展的艺术品市场。
“Today, the forgers have access to research publications where they can look up the chemical makeup of an item,” said Robert D. Mowry, former curator of the Harvard Art Museums and an expert on Chinese art who now consults for Christie’s auction house. “There are markets for old paper in China.”
“如今，造假者可以读到研究期刊，从中查阅某件东西的化学成分。中国有销售旧纸的市场。”哈佛艺术博物馆(Harvard Art Museums)前策展人、中国艺术专家罗伯特·D·莫瑞(Robert D. Mowry)说。莫瑞目前是佳士得拍卖行(Christie’s)的顾问。
Scholars and authenticators are trained to identify fakes or forgeries. But Chinese counterfeiters, often with the aid of museum professionals and wealthy collectors, have been clever at finding old materials to game the system.
学者和鉴定师会接受识别伪作或赝品的培训。但中国的造假者常常能得到博物馆专业人士和富有藏家的协助，一直善于利用旧材料来做手脚。
They irradiate ceramics to throw off carbon-dating techniques, or hire master mounters to separate an authentic inscription from an authentic painting and then commission a fake painting to accompany the authentic inscription and a fake inscription to accompany the authentic painting. The result is two partially authentic works where there was once one.
他们可以对陶瓷进行辐射，从而蒙骗碳年代测定技术。他们还可以雇佣手法纯熟的技工，从真品上分离出题字的真迹，随后定做一幅假画，配上真题字；再书写一幅假题字，配上真画。结果，一幅真品画作就变成了两件真假掺半的作品。
“I’ve seen a painting where the first five feet is real but the second five feet is replicated,” said one former Christie’s specialist. “And there’d be another painting out there that’s vice versa.”
“我见到过一幅画，前5尺是真迹，但后5尺却是仿品。”曾在佳士得供职的一位专业人士说，“应该还存在另外一幅画，跟这幅正好相反。”
Some dealers bribe an authenticator, museum staffer or the descendant of an old master painter to go along with a scheme to convince an auction house that a fake work is real. Other scam artists doctor provenance records by, for instance, placing a replica in the auction catalog at a small auction house in Europe, or finding a way to get a fake work into an estate sale.
一些交易商会买通鉴定师、博物馆员工或年迈大师的后人，和他们一起炮制骗局，让拍卖行误把赝品当成真迹。还有一些骗子会把仿品放进欧洲某个小拍卖行的拍品目录，或者想办法让赝品混入一场遗产拍卖会，从而达到伪造来源记录的目的。
The Chinese authorities and auction houses have tried to crack down on the practice. But taming a fast-growing auction market, and a growing trade in counterfeits, has so far been ineffective.
中国当局和拍卖行一直在努力打击这种做法。但是对快速发展的拍卖市场和日益增长的赝品交易的监管，迄今为止并未见效。
In China, locating the producers and dealers in fake items is not difficult. A journalist visited more than a dozen Chinese cities this year and was able to set up appointments with many high-quality replica-makers, many of whom admitted to, at one time or another, participating in counterfeiting schemes.
在中国，锁定赝品的生产者和经手的交易商并不困难。一位记者今年走访了十多座中国城市，并得以约见许多高质量仿品生产者。他们中的大部分都承认，曾偶尔参与过制假售假的骗局。
Some craftsmen even expressed pride in having produced an object that turned out to be good enough to end up in the auction market.
一些工匠在谈到自己制作的伪作，最终能够流入拍卖市场时，甚至表达了自豪之情。
“They can even fool the connoisseurs,” said David Sensabaugh, curator of Asian art at the Yale University Art Gallery. “And with jade, there’s just no way to test it” to determine the age of a piece.
“他们甚至可以骗过鉴赏家，”耶鲁大学艺术馆(Yale University Art Gallery)亚洲美术部主任江文苇(David Sensabaugh)说。“而且说到玉，根本没有任何检测方法”能确定一件玉器的年代。
Craig Yee, an expert in traditional Chinese painting and a partner at Ink Studio, a contemporary art gallery in Beijing, says it takes a connoisseur to catch a connoisseur involved in producing fakes and forgeries.
中国画专家、北京当代艺术画廊墨斋(Ink Studio)的合伙人余国梁(Craig Yee)说，只有行家才能识破从事伪作和赝品生产的行家。
“The best fakers are not craftsmen but connoisseurs and expert calligraphers and painters,” Mr. Yee said. “You can’t just pick up a brush and master a style.”
“最好的制假者并不是匠人，而是鉴赏家，以及专业的书法家和画家。”余国梁说，“毕竟要想掌握一种风格，并不能提笔就来。”
That collectors and investors in Chinese art are being fooled is one thing, but experts say the fakes and forgeries could also have broader implications for the study of Chinese art.
中国艺术品的藏家和投资者受到愚弄是一回事儿。但专家称，除此之外，赝品和伪作还会对中国艺术的研究造成更为广泛的影响。
While scholars have long been aware of fakes and forgeries of Chinese cultural objects, the scale of the production is likely to make things even more challenging, since collectors are likely to donate items to national museums.
学者们长期以来一直知道中国的文物中存在赝品和伪作，但其大规模生产似乎让事情变得更具挑战性，因为藏家可能会向国有的博物馆捐赠藏品。
“For serious scholars, prudence becomes ever more important,” said Mr. Mowry, the former Harvard curator. “It’s frightening, but there are going to be lots of books published and people are going to assume that some things are authentic when they’re fake.”
“对于认真的学者而言，审慎变得愈发重要了。”哈佛艺术博物馆前策展人莫瑞说，“情况很惊人，但还是会有大量的书籍出版，人们还是会把伪作当成真品。”