NEW DELHI
新德里
Every time I visit India, I visit Nasscom, the high-tech association, to meet with the newest crop of Indian innovators. They account for only a tiny fraction of India’s 1.2 billion people, most of whom remain painfully poor, but I focus on these Indian innovators because so many of them today are focused on making India unpoor. India is now spawning large numbers of innovators concentrating on solving poor-world problems, and cloud-based technology tools and open-source platforms are enabling Indian innovators to do this with little capital. As a result, they are much more willing to try, fail and try again (the secret sauce of Silicon Valley). And, as a result, we’re starting to see a merger here between E.T., I.T. and ID. It doesn’t get any better than that.
每次我去印度，都会前往印度国家软件和服务公司协会(Nasscom)这个高科技协会，和那里的最新一批印度创新人士会面。他们只占了印度12亿人口的很小一部分，且这一人口中的大多数人仍处在痛苦的贫穷状态中。但我关注这些印度创新者是因为他们中有很多人正专注于让印度不再贫穷。如今，印度正在培养大批的致力于解决贫穷世界问题的创新人才，而基于云计算的技术工具和开放源代码的平台能让这些印度创新者在无需多少资本的情况下施展拳脚。这样一来，他们更愿意去尝试、失败、再尝试（硅谷的秘密法宝）。因而，我们开始看到能源技术、信息技术和身份识别技术的结合。这再好不过了。
There is nothing that India needs more than an energy technology (E.T.) revolution that would deliver cheap, reliable power to millions suffering from energy poverty. If every village had some reliable power, plus access to high-speed Internet (I.T.), hundreds of millions of Indians would be able to live locally but act globally — that is, they would be able to remain in their villages, yet have access to the education and markets that could enable them to escape poverty and not have to join the hordes in the megaslums of the megacities like Mumbai or Kolkata.
印度现在最需要的就是能源技术革命，这能为数以百万计深受能源贫困之苦的民众带来廉价可靠的电力。如果每个村庄都拥有一些可靠的能源，并能接入高速的互联网，那么数亿印度人民就可以身在一地却和全世界相连——也就是说，他们可以留在自己的村子里，却能接触到教育和市场资源，从而有能力脱离贫穷，却不用住在孟买或加尔各答等大城市的大型贫民窟里。
The most exciting E.T. innovation I saw here was Gram Power. Some 400 million people in India do not have access to grid-based power and, therefore, rely on kerosene, which releases tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and claims about 1.5 million Indian lives a year. Gram Power has developed an answer, says its co-founder Yashraj Khaitan: “Our Smart Microgrid system comprises renewable-based generation infrastructure installed locally in the village [usually solar panels on a cellphone tower], and a proprietary smart electricity distribution system that tackles the three main challenges of reliable energy access in India: theft and pilferage that forms the root cause for 58 percent of energy losses on the utility grid, high capital costs to extend the utility grid to remote low population areas, and intermittent and unpredictable power supply.”
我在当地看到的最令人振奋的能源技术创新来自于格拉姆电力公司(Gram Power)。印度有约4亿人口用不上联网电力，因此他们靠煤油生活，而燃烧煤油会向大气中释放大量二氧化碳气体，每年造成大约150万人死亡。格拉姆电力公司提供了一个答案，该公司的创始人亚希拉杰·凯坦(Yashraj Khaitan)说，“我们的智能微型电网系统由再生能源的发电设备和有专利权的智能配电系统组成，发电设备就地安装在村子里（通常是手机信号塔上的太阳能电池板），而配电系统可以应对印度可靠能源接入面临的三大挑战：偷窃，这是造成印度电网58%电力损失的根本原因；将电网扩展至人口稀少的偏远地区所需的高额基建成本；以及断断续续和难以预测的电力供应。”
The Gram Power system comes at a capital cost, Khaitan added of “less than that of a solar home system, with a prepaid pricing model suited to our consumers’ disposable income — for just 20 cents per day of recharge, consumers can operate lights, fans, radios, and televisions.” The smart meters “prevent people from overdrawing power and intelligently prioritize different loads based on local conditions.” Having succeeded with their pilot, Gram Power is on pace to reach 20,000 homes and have 100 telecom towers covered with solar panels for generation in the next year.
凯坦补充道，格拉姆公司的电力系统，其基建成本“小于一套太阳能家庭发电系统，它预付费的定价模式适合印度消费者的可支配收入水平——每天只需充20美分的电，消费者就可以使用电灯、电扇、收音机和电视。”智能电表“能防止人们透支用电，并能根据当地情况智能分配电量负荷。”在试点成功之后，格拉姆电力公司有望在明年进入两万户家庭，并在100架电信塔上安装太阳能板进行发电。
The most interesting I.T. project I came across was Mettl, which has developed an online assessment platform to help hiring managers “to measure and track skills of prehires and employees” to determine if they can really do a particular job. Mettl can “measure the hard skills which are directly applicable to a job rather than just the knowledge which you have acquired by rote,” said its co-founder Ketan Kapoor. “Up to now,” he added “you could not measure what you can do with what you know. But unless you can apply your knowledge to a level that is useful, it doesn’t mean anything. Knowledge is a commodity available to anyone. It is not a differentiator anymore in the professional market. The differentiator is what you can do with that knowledge.”
我碰到的最有意思的信息技术项目是Mettl，它开发了一个在线评估平台，帮助招聘主管“衡量并追踪待招聘人员和员工的技能”，从而确定他们是否真的能胜任某份工作。Mettl的联合创始人克坦·卡普尔(Ketan Kapoor)说，Mettl能“衡量直接适用于某份工作的硬性技能，而不仅仅是能通过死记硬背获得的知识”。“到目前为止，”他补充说，“都无法衡量能用自己知道的东西，做些什么。但除非你将知识运用到了有用的水平，否则知识就没有意义。知识是一件所有人都能获得的商品。在职场上，知识不再是区分标准了。区分标准是你能用那些知识做什么。”
Mettl is also developing a proctoring program for Internet-based distance learning so a young person in a remote Indian village could be reliably tested on a body of knowledge and the teacher given immediate feedback. “We are positive that we shall be able to solve the remote proctoring problem and disrupt the online learning and assessment space.”
Mettl还在为以互联网为基础的远程学习开发一个监考项目，这样，就能对身在印度偏远农村的年轻人，进行涉及大量知识的测试，并即刻为老师提供反馈。“我们相信，我们能解决远程监考的问题，给在线学习和评估领域带来革新。”
Now marry these breakthroughs in E.T. and I.T. with one in ID. Nandan Nilekani, a co-founder of Infosys, has been leading India’s Unique Identification project, which aims to give every Indian who wants one a unique 12-digit ID number, backed by photographs, fingerprints and iris scans that can be easily verified online. The system is creating a platform that enables the government to give aid, salaries, health care and pensions much more directly to citizens without worrying it will be siphoned off by corrupt officials or fake IDs. Some 270 million Indians have acquired an ID, with about one million signing up per day, or as, Nilekani says, “one Finland a week.” Once every Indian has a “robust real identity” based in the cloud, Nilekani told me, you have “a platform” upon which you can build all kinds of services — from cash transfers to health records to open online courses.
现在，还可以把能源技术和信息技术领域的突破性进展，与身份识别领域的一项进展联系到一起。Infosys的联合创始人南丹·尼勒卡尼(Nandan Nilekani)一直在引领印度的“唯一身份识别”(Unique Identification)项目。该项目的目标是为所有希望获得身份证号码的印度人，提供一个独一无二的12位数的身份证号，并配以照片、指纹和虹膜扫描，而且可以在网上很容易地得到核实。这个系统正在创建的平台，使政府能将工资、医疗保险和退休金更直接地发放给公民，不用担心会被贪污腐败的官员挪用，或是被人用虚假身份骗取。大约2.7亿印度人已经有了身份证，每天还有大约100万人申领，或者像尼勒卡尼说的，“每周一个芬兰”。尼勒卡尼告诉我，一旦每个印度人都有一个基于云的“有力而真实的身份”，你就有了一个构筑各种服务的“平台”，从转账到医疗记录再到开放的在线课程。