VALENCIA, Venezuela —  Frustrated with the modest sales at his small mannequin factory, Eliezer Álvarez made a simple observation: Venezuelan women were increasingly using plastic surgery to transform their bodies, yet the mannequins in clothing stores did not reflect these new, often extreme proportions.
委内瑞拉巴伦西亚——埃列塞尔·阿尔瓦雷斯(Eliezer Álvarez)看到自己的小型人体模型厂业绩平平，十分沮丧，他发现：越来越多的委内瑞拉妇女开始用整形手术来重塑她们的身体，可是服装店里的人体模型却没有反映出这种新的、常常十分极端的身材比例。
So he went back to his workshop and created the kind of woman he thought the public wanted — one with a bulging bosom and cantilevered buttocks, a wasp waist and long legs, a fiberglass fantasy, Venezuelan style.
于是，他回到车间里，创造出了他认为人们想见到的那种女性身体——大胸、翘臀、蜂腰、长腿，一个用玻璃纤维塑造出来的、委内瑞拉风格的梦幻女性。
The shape was augmented, and so were sales. Now his mannequins, and others like them, have become the standard in stores across Venezuela, serving as an exaggerated, sometimes polarizing, vision of the female form that calls out from the doorways of tiny shops selling cheap clothes to working-class women and the display windows of fancy boutiques in multilevel shopping malls.
尺码加大了，销售量也就增加了。现在，他的人体模型和与之类似的其他产品已成为委内瑞拉国内各商店使用的标准模型，作为对女性形体的一种夸张的、时而引发分歧的演绎，这些模型以撩人之姿矗立在向工薪阶层女性兜售廉价服装的小店门口，也出现在多层购物中心的高档精品店的橱窗里。
Mr. Álvarez’s art may have been meant to imitate life. But in a culture saturated with such images, life is returning the compliment.
阿尔瓦雷斯的作品也许本来意在模仿生活。可是，在一个充斥着这种形象的文化中，生活正在对作品做出反馈。
“You see a woman like this and you say, ‘Wow, I want to look like her,’ ” said Reina Parada, as she sanded a mannequin torso in the workshop. Although she cannot afford it, she said, she would like to get implant surgery someday. “It gives you better self-esteem.”
“你看见一个这样身材的女人，你会说，‘哇，我想像她一样。’”在车间里打磨模型躯干的蕾娜·帕拉达(Reina Parada)说。她说，虽然她还拿不出手术费，可还是希望有朝一日能做植入手术。“它会让你更自信。”
Cosmetic procedures are so fashionable here that a woman with implants is often casually referred to as “an operated woman.” Women freely talk about their surgeries, and mannequin makers jokingly refer to the creations as being “operated” as well. Mr. Álvarez’s wife and business partner, Nereida Corro, calls her best-selling mannequin, with its inflated proportions, the “normal” model.
在这里，各种整形手段如此流行，以至于一名接受过植入的女性常常会被随意地称为“动过手术的女人”。女人们也会无所顾忌地谈论她们的手术，甚至人体模型制造商也开玩笑地说人体模型也在接受“手术”。阿尔瓦雷斯的妻子兼生意伙伴内蕾达·科罗(Nereida Corro)把她最畅销的、比例夸张的人体模型称作“常规”款。
The embrace of plastic surgery clashes with the government’s socialist ideology and frequent talk of creating a society free of the taint of commercialism. Venezuela’s longtime leader, Hugo Chávez, who died in March after 14 years in office, railed against the procedures, saying it was “monstrous” that poor women were spending money on breast surgeries when they had trouble making ends meet.
然而，这种对整形手术的热衷却和政府的社会主义理念，与频频谈及的打造一个免受商业主义浸染的社会产生了冲突。委内瑞拉的长期领导人乌戈·查韦斯(Hugo Chávez)斥责这些手段，说贫穷女性连维持生计都有困难，却还在花钱做胸部整形手术，这“大错特错”。在位长达14年的查韦斯于今年3月去世。
But the same resource that the government relies on — the world’s largest estimated petroleum reserves — has long fed a culture of easy money and consumerism here, along with a penchant for the quick fix and instant gratification.
但是政府依赖的同一种资源——据估计为全球规模最大的石油储备——长期以来也一直在为委内瑞拉培养一种不劳而获和消费主义的文化，与之相伴的是对捷径和及时行乐的嗜好。
“Venezuela is known for its oil, and it’s known for its beauty,” said Lauren Gulbas, a feminist scholar and anthropologist at Dartmouth College, who has studied attitudes toward plastic surgery in Venezuela. “That ties into why it’s perceived as so important to Venezuelans.”
“委内瑞拉因石油而得名，也因美女而得名，这就是为什么委内瑞拉人如此看重这类手段，”女权主义学者、达特茅斯学院(Dartmouth College)人类学家劳伦·居尔巴(Lauren Gulbas)说，她研究了委内瑞拉人对整形手术的态度。
Beauty took on a particularly important role in the late 1970s and ’80s when the country’s beauty queens, already a national obsession, were crowned Miss Universe three times. Their success on the international stage took on special resonance. It came as the country was grappling with the frustrated expectations of the 1970s oil boom and the deep economic downturn that followed, bringing with it a crisis of national confidence.
上世纪70年代末和80年代，“美”发挥了格外重要的作用。委内瑞拉人本就对选美十分痴迷，而在这段时间里，这个国家的选美皇后三次摘得了环球小姐(Miss Universe)的桂冠。她们在国际舞台上的成功引发了特别的反响。当时，由于上世纪70年代的石油业大发展没能带来预期的好处，严重的经济衰退又随之而来，该国出现了一场国家信心的危机，这种种问题令委内瑞拉政府疲于应付。
And the beauty queens’ fame helped fuel a fascination with cosmetic surgery and procedures like breast implants, tummy tucks, nose jobs and injections to firm the buttocks.
选美皇后的盛名促生了民众对整形手术和各种整形手段的兴趣，其中包括隆胸、腹部整形、修鼻、注射翘臀等。
Osmel Sousa, the longtime head of the Miss Venezuela pageant, takes credit for the trend. He recommended a nose job for Venezuela’s first Miss Universe, which he says made her victory possible more than three decades ago.
这一潮流的兴起也要归功于长期以来担任委内瑞拉小姐(Miss Venezuela)组委会主席的奥斯梅尔·索萨(Osmel Sousa)。他曾建议委内瑞拉第一位获得环球小姐称号的选手做鼻部整形手术，他认为，多亏了这，她才有可能在三十多年前夺冠。
“When there is a defect, I correct it,” Mr. Sousa said. “If it can be easily fixed with surgery, then why not do it?”
“只要有缺陷我就修正它，”索萨说。“如果做手术就能轻易修正，那为什么不做呢？”
For Mr. Sousa, beauty really is skin deep: “I say that inner beauty doesn’t exist. That’s something that unpretty women invented to justify themselves.”
对索萨来说，美真的就是外在的：“我认为内在美是不存在的。那是不漂亮的女人创造出来为自己辩护的。”
Naturally, not everyone sees it that way. Several women’s groups protested against the Miss Venezuela beauty pageant last month, criticizing pressures on women to conform to the artificial aesthetic.
当然，不是每个人都这么看。上个月，几家妇女组织对委内瑞拉小姐选美比赛表示抗议，批评它向女性施压去符合人造美的标准。
The little data available indicates that Venezuelan women do not get plastic surgery more than their counterparts in many other countries. But Ms. Gulbas, the anthropologist, said the surgeries take on an elevated status thanks to the importance of beauty here and a belief that cosmetic procedures will help project a successful image.
有限的数据显示，委内瑞拉妇女做整形手术的比例并不高过许多其他国家的妇女。但人类学家居尔巴说，由于委内瑞拉对美的重视，也由于人们相信整形会展示一个成功的形象，整形在这里有着较高的地位。
“There’s this notion in Venezuela of ‘buena presencia,’ ‘good presence,’ ” she said. “That communicates that you have certain aspects that say you are a hard worker, a good worker, an honest person.” She added, “There’s a virtue associated with looking a certain way.”
“在委内瑞拉有这样一个概念‘buena presencia’，即‘好的形象’，”她说。“这意味着一个人的一些方面说明，你工作努力、工作出色、诚实。”她补充说，“只要你的外形符合特定标准，就说明你有某种良好品质。”
Each day, Yaritza Molina arranges several mannequins at the entrance to the small clothing shop she manages in Coro, a city in western Venezuela, always careful to place two ahead of the others. “These are the princesses,” she said, “because they have the best bust.”
每天，在委内瑞拉西部小城科罗(Coro)，雅莉札·莫利纳(Yaritza Molina)会在她的小服装店入口处摆上几个人体模型，而且总是特意将其中两个摆在前面。“这两个是公主，”她说，“因为它们的胸部最好看。”
“I have lots of clients that come here and say, ‘I want to look like that mannequin,’ ” Ms. Molina said. “I tell them, ‘O.K., then get an operation.’ ”
“我有很多客人来这儿会说，‘我想看上去像那个人体模型，’”莫利纳说。“我告诉她们，‘好的，那就做个手术吧。’”
As in many countries, there are dangers to the obsession. Over the last two years, the local news media has reported several cases in which women died after receiving faulty injections meant to firm up their buttocks, often in unlicensed clinics.
正如发生在许多国家的情况一样，对整形手术的痴迷也会带来危险。在过去两年里，当地媒体已经报道了几起事故，妇女在注射了伪劣的翘臀针剂后死去，这往往都发生在无证诊所。
A few miles from Ms. Corro’s workshop, workers used a similar process to build mannequins in a small rooftop workshop run by Daniela Mieles, 25, and her family.
就在离科罗工厂几英里远的地方，25岁的达妮埃拉·米艾拉(Daniela Mieles)和她的家人经营着一家开在屋顶的小作坊，这里的工人们使用相似的工序生产人体模型。
While Ms. Corro’s mannequins took a quantum leap in body shape several years ago, Ms. Mieles said that the busts and buttocks of her family’s mannequins had grown gradually to keep up with the trends in plastic surgery.
和科罗几年前突然改变了她人体模型身形的做法不同的是，米艾拉说，她家生产的人体模型的胸部、臀部一直在逐渐变大，以符合整形手术的最新潮流。
Now they have reached a shape that her husband, Trino Colmenarez, 32, calls “estrambótico,” a word that may be best translated as “extravagant.”
如今，它们的形状已经到了她32岁的丈夫特里诺·科尔梅纳雷斯(Trino Colmenarez)所说的“estrambótico”的地步，这一词最佳的解释也许是“极致”。
Sales are good, and Ms. Mieles said that she and her husband had started saving money so that she could get breast implants herself. An operation at a private clinic can cost about $6,350, Ms. Mieles said, an amount equivalent to about three months of basic expenses for her household, including food, utilities and other living costs.
销售情况非常好，米艾拉说她和她的丈夫已经开始存钱，这样她自己也能做丰胸手术。米艾拉说，在私人诊所做丰胸手术的费用大约是6350美元（约合38700元人民币），这相当于她家庭大约三个月的基本开支，包括食品、水电煤和其他生活开支。
The goal is to look more like the artificial ideal projected by her family’s mannequins.
她的目标是要看起来更接近她家人体模型所展现出的人造完美状态。
“Beauty is perfection, to try to perfect yourself more and more every day,” Ms. Mieles said. “That’s how people see it here.”
“美即是完美，努力使你自己每一天越来越完美，”米艾拉说。“这里的人们就是这么认为的。”