NOT long ago I asked a good friend of mine — one of the smartest men I know, and one of the most devoted dads — if he thought that his children would live in a more prosperous America or at least enjoy the same bounty of opportunities that we had.
不久前，我问了好朋友一个问题。此人是我认识的最聪明的人之一，也是一位无比慈爱的父亲。我问他，是否认为自己的孩子长大后，美国会更加繁荣，或者至少像我们一样，享有各种各样的机会？
His response was instant and unequivocal. No.
他的回答迅速而毫不含糊：不。
“How do you make peace with that?” I said.
“那你是怎么做到心平气和的？”我问。
He shrugged, laughed bitterly and answered, “I’m hoping to leave them a lot of money.”
他耸了耸肩，苦笑着回答，“我打算给他们留下一大笔钱。”
The American dream, 2014 edition: Squirrel away nuts for a leaner tomorrow. The worst is yet to come, so insure yourself against it if you’re among the lucky few who can.
2014版的美国梦：节衣缩食，为未来的苦日子做准备。最糟糕的日子还在后头，所以，如果你是有能力防患于未然的少数幸运儿，那就行动吧。
I was reminded of my conversation with him when I read last week about a fresh projection, from a branch of the World Bank, that the Chinese economy might overtake ours by the end of this year, finishing our century-plus reign as the world’s wealthiest nation. What a run we had! It was great while it lasted.
上周，当我读到一份最新预测时，想起了和朋友的这番对话。这项来自世界银行一家分支机构的预测认为，中国经济可能在今年底超过我们，终结我们一个多世纪以来世界上最富有国家的地位。我们的成功多长久啊！这么长时间保持下来，感觉真不错。
And it will probably last much longer than another few months. The projection relied on disputed arithmetic. These matters aren’t neat and clean.
而且，我们世界第一的头衔可能还会持续更长时间，远不止几个月。这项预测依据的算法存有争议，这种事情也并不是那么一清二楚。
But our slide to No. 2 nonetheless seems inevitable, so much so that most Americans think it has already happened. For the last six years, when the Gallup Poll asked them which country was the world’s “leading economic power,” more answered China than said the United States. This year, the spread was an astonishing 52 to 31 percent. Fewer than one in three Americans puts us on top, even though we actually remain there.
不过，我们滑落到第二似乎不可避免，以至于目前大多数美国人都以为，我们已经落后了。过去六年，盖洛普民意调查(Gallup Poll)询问哪个国家是世界“最大经济体”时，更多人的答案是中国，而不是美国。今年，回答中国和美国的人是52%对31%，两个数字的差距可谓惊人。虽然事实上我们真的还是世界第一，但只有不到三分之一的美国人这样认为。
More and more I get the sense that we’ve lost it, and by “it” I mean the optimism that was always the lifeblood of this luminous experiment, the ambition that has been its foundation, the swagger that made us so envied and emulated and reviled.
我越来越强烈地感受到，我们失去了一些东西，比如乐观主义、雄心壮志，以及曾经的奕奕神采。在美国这场光荣的社会实验中，乐观主义一直是维系它的生命线，雄心壮志则是它的根基，而我们曾经的风采，让我们遭到了如此多的嫉妒、效仿和谩骂。
We’re walking small. And that shift in our gait and our gumption has been palpable for many years, during an unusually sustained period of frustration that has the feel of something more than a temporary dive: a turned corner, the downward arc of a diminished enterprise.
如今，我们却在低声下气地前行。我们步伐和心气的转变已经显露了不少年头。在这段充满挫败感的格外漫长的时期，我们感到，衰落似乎不是暂时的：我们的进取心经过拐点，开始了向下的弧线。
In a lengthy memo that he shared with Politico late last year, the Democratic strategist Doug Sosnik assessed what he called “a decade of anger and disaffection,” noting that for 10 years in a row, according to polling by NBC News and The Wall Street Journal, the percentage of Americans who believed that the United States was on the wrong track exceeded the percentage who thought it was on the right track. That’s a change in the very character of the country.
在去年末发表于“政治人”(Politico)网站上的一则长篇备忘录中，民主党策略师道格·索斯尼克(Doug Sosnik)谈论了他所说的“10年的愤怒和不满”。他指出，根据NBC新闻频道(NBC News)和《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)的联合民调，认为美国走在错误道路上的人的比例，连续10年超过了认为我们走在正确道路上的人。这是国家本性的转变。
“At the core of Americans’ anger and alienation is the belief that the American dream is no longer attainable,” Sosnik wrote. “For the first time in our country’s history, there is more social mobility in Europe than in the United States.”
索斯尼克写道，“美国民众愤怒和疏离的实质在于，认为美国梦已变得遥不可及。在我们的历史上，欧洲的社会流动性第一次超过了美国。”
We’re laggards, slackers, and everywhere you turn, the evidence mounts.
我们落伍、懒散，无论你看向何处，都能发现越来越多的证据。
American schoolchildren aren’t anywhere near the head of the international pack, and American adults, according to one recent study, lack the technical skills that peers in many other developed countries have.
美国学生和国际上最优秀学生的差距不是一星半点，而根据最近的一项调查，美国的成年人缺乏其他许多发达国家的同龄人所拥有的技能。
American bridges crumble. American trains crawl. American flights leave from terminals that pale next to many Asian and European counterparts. Joe Biden acknowledged as much three months ago when he compared La Guardia Airport to a third-world country. I’ve been to La Guardia and I’ve been to Guatemala, and if I were Guatemala, I’d sue for defamation.
我们的桥梁接连坍塌，火车慢如龟速，航站楼与许多亚洲和欧洲的机场一比未免相形见绌。乔·拜登(Joe Biden)也承认这一点。就在三个月前，他说拉瓜迪亚机场(La Guardia Airport)就像来自第三世界。我去过拉瓜迪亚机场，我也去过危地马拉。如果我是危地马拉人，会告拜登诽谤。
We seldom build big things anymore. We just talk about building them and usually decide to take a pass or to wait, whether it’s a high-speed train in California or another tunnel between New Jersey and New York. And while each of these demurrals has a reason, the sum of them has an inescapably defeatist bent. We’re tentative. Timid.
我们已经很少兴建大型工程了。我们只是嘴上说说，然后通常都会否决，或是一等再等，无论是在加州修建一条高铁，还是在新泽西和纽约之间再建一条通道。尽管每次说不都有理由，然而长此以往，就诞生了一种不可避免的失败主义倾向。我们犹豫不决。我们如此胆怯。
My Times colleagues David Leonhardt and Kevin Quealy recently reported that the middle class in America, which had long been the world’s most affluent, wasn’t anymore. Canada had overtaken us.
我在《纽约时报》的同事戴维·李哈德(David Leonhardt)和凯文·奎利(Kevin Quealy)最近报道，美国的中产阶级以前一直是世界上最富有的，现在不是了。加拿大已经超过了我们。
My Times colleague Nicholas Kristof wrote about America’s rank on a new “social progress index” that includes 132 countries. We’re 39th in basic education, 34th in access to water and sanitation — access to water and sanitation! — and 16th over all, just two spots above Slovenia.
我的另一位同事纪思道(Nicholas Kristof)在一篇文章中讨论了，在新的“社会进步指数”对132个国家的排名中，美国表现平平。我们的基础教育排名第39，获取饮用水和公共卫生服务的水平排第34——饮用水和公共卫生服务啊！——整体排名第16，只比斯洛文尼亚高两位。
And my colleague Maureen Dowd marveled at the “reduced expectations” and “truculent passivity” of Barack Obama’s presidency, which may be a crystalline mirror of the nation itself, aptly humbled and eerily fatalistic.
贝拉克·奥巴马总统任期的“降低的期望值”和“致命的被动状态”，让我的同事莫琳·多德(Maureen Dowd)感到不可思议。但这可能就是美国的真实写照，锐气受挫，听天由命的程度让人不寒而栗。
These three stories are threads in one tapestry, a faded panorama of American possibility. We’re contemptuous of the federal government. We distrust interventions abroad. The fertility rate is down. And we’ve gone from “Sex and the City,” with its fairy-tale lilt and candy-colored palette, to “Girls,” with its infinite shades of gray.
这三篇报道从各自的角度反映了同一副景象——美国褪了色的未来。我们对联邦政府不屑，对海外干预心存疑虑。生育率下降。我们已经远离了《欲望都市》(Sex and the City)童话般的轻松和糖果色的基调，陷入《都市女孩》(Girls)的那种无尽的灰暗。
MY friend isn’t alone in his worry for his kids. The “Heartland Monitor Poll” by the National Journal and Allstate last September showed that only 20 percent of Americans expected today’s children to have more opportunities to get ahead than their parents had, while 45 percent expected them to have fewer. That was the most downbeat finding since the poll first broached the question in 2009.
担心子女未来的不光有我的那位朋友。去年9月，《国家期刊》(National Journal)和好事达(Allstate)联合进行“中心地带监测民调(Heartland Monitor Poll)”显示，只有20%的美国民众认为，与父母那个时代相比，如今的孩子未来将拥有更多机会，而45%认为机会将变少。该项民调于2009年首次设置这一问题，而这是调查结果最悲观的一次。
It coincided with an intensifying discussion of whether we’re all in a state of surrender. “Once a nation of competitive omnivores and carnivores, America could be turning more docile — a country of content, grazing herbivores,” wrote the social scientist Joel Kotkin in The Daily Beast in November 2013. Behold our trajectory: lions to lambs.
与此同时，关于美国是否正处于“投降”状态的讨论正日益激烈。社会学家乔尔·科特金(Joel Kotkin)2013年11月在“每日野兽”(The Daily Beast)网站上写道，“美国曾经是一个由凶猛的杂食动物和肉食动物组成的国度，但可能正变得更加温顺——变成一个到处是心满意足的草食动物的国家。”看看我们的运行轨迹：从狮子变成了羊羔。
Which may not be so bad. Less assertiveness could mean less overreach. Less confidence could mean less hubris. And money isn’t everything.
这也许并没那么糟。不那么强势，或许意味着我们不会触角伸得太远。少一些信心，或许意味着少一些自大。而且，钱并不代表一切。
A thoughtful college junior I know told me that while he didn’t envision a richer American economy in his future or a mightier American role in the world, he looked forward to a country with a warmer embrace of diversity, including gay marriage in every state. He itched to be a part of its creation.
我认识的一个很有想法的大三学生告诉我，尽管他认为美国经济不会变得更加富裕，美国在世界上的角色也不会更强势，但他期待着美国变得更加包容多样性，比如让同性婚姻在全美各州都合法。他渴望成为这个国家创造力的一部分。
Still, I worry. Can a nation so long defined by its faith in an expansive frontier accept limits so easily? If we become convinced that the pie won’t grow, do our politics degenerate into endless squabbling over the slices? And isn’t pessimism a self-fulfilling prophecy?
不过，我还是忧心忡忡。长期以来，无远弗届的信念一直是这个国家的核心特质，我们能这么轻易地接受限制吗？如果我们确定蛋糕不会变大了，政治会不会降级为关于如何分配的无休止争吵？悲观主义难道不是必然会应验的预言吗？
At the start of the year, before a State of the Union speech noteworthy for the modesty of the president’s agenda, his longtime adviser David Axelrod poked fun at the willed (and sometimes cracked) ebullience of the Reagan era, telling The Times’s Michael Shear, “I think to pretend that ‘It’s morning in America’ is a misreading of the times.”
今年初，奥巴马总统发表的那番国情咨文以其政治议程的平淡无奇而引人注目。演讲之前，他的长期顾问戴维·阿克塞尔罗德(David Axelrod)调侃了里根时代刻意（且时而疯狂）的乐观。他告诉《纽约时报》的迈克尔·希尔(Michael Shear)，“我认为，做出‘美国正沐浴着朝阳’的假象是对时代的误导。”
Perhaps. But we’re no better served by settling into the dusk.
也许吧。但安于黄昏般的现状，我们也不会过得更好。