Margaret Sullivan is the fifth public editor appointed by The New York Times. She writes about the Times and its journalism in a frequent blog – the Public Editor’s Journal — and in a twice-monthly print column in the Sunday Review section. The public editor’s office also handles questions and comments from readers and investigates matters of journalistic integrity. The public editor works independently, outside of the reporting and editing structure of the newspaper; her opinions are her own.
玛格丽特·沙利文(Margaret Sullivan)是《纽约时报》任命的第五位公众编辑。她会定期更新博客“公众编辑日志”(Public Editor’s Journal)，在周日评论(Sunday Review)板块中每月刊出两期专栏文章，就时报及其新闻报道撰文。公众编辑办公室还负责回应读者的提问和评论，并调查涉及新闻操守的事务。沙利文的工作独立于时报的报道和编辑结构之外。她发表的是自己的意见。
About Margaret Sullivan
玛格丽特·沙利文简介
Ms. Sullivan was editor and vice president of The Buffalo News before being named as Times public editor in September 2012. She was the first woman to serve as the editor and as the managing editor of The News, after working as a reporter and columnist there. As editor, Ms. Sullivan focused the paper’s reporting on poverty, economic development and inequities in public education, and established its first investigative team. 
2012年9月被任命为时报的公众编辑之前，玛格丽特是《布法罗新闻报》(The Buffalo News)的编辑兼副总裁。她还在《新闻》(The News)担任过记者和专栏作家，并在之后成为该报的首任女性编辑和女性总编。担任编辑时，沙利文带领该报重点报道贫困、经济发展和公共教育中的不平等问题，并组建了该报的第一支调查报道团队。
Ms. Sullivan was appointed to the Pulitzer Prize Board in 2011 and has been a juror four times, serving as the chairwoman of the distinguished commentary jury in 2006. She was elected twice as a director of the American Society of News Editors and has led its First Amendment committee.
沙利文于2011年被任命为普利策奖委员会(Pulitzer Prize Board)委员，并四次出任评委，在2006年担任评论奖评委会主席。沙利文两次当选美国新闻编辑协会(American Society of News Editors)干事，并担任该协会第一修正案委员会主席。
A native of Lackawanna, N.Y., Ms. Sullivan is a graduate of Georgetown University and the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University, where she is a member of its Hall of Achievement.
沙利文生于纽约州拉克万纳，毕业于乔治城大学(Georgetown University)和西北大学麦迪尔新闻学院(Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University)，她入选了西北大学的名人堂。