At least three people have died and scores were still believed missing Wednesday after a boat packed with migrants sank overnight off Indonesia, in the latest maritime tragedy for asylum seekers from the Middle East and Asia trying to reach Australia by sea.
一艘满载难民的船周二夜间在印度尼西亚附近海域沉没，导致至少3人死亡，据信截至周三仍有几十人失踪，对试图从海上达到澳大利亚的来自中东和亚洲的寻求庇护者来说，这是最近的一场海上悲剧。
Didi Hamzar, a spokesman for the Indonesian search-and-rescue authority, Basarnas, confirmed the three deaths and said his agency was still trying to gather accurate information about the fate of the people from the boat, which was reported to have capsized overnight Tuesday in heavy seas west of the main Indonesian island of Java, dumping at least 160 into the frigid water.
印度尼西亚搜救机构Basarnas发言人迪迪·哈姆扎尔(Didi Hamzar)证实有3人死亡，并称该机构正在继续搜集有关船上乘客的确切信息。据称这只船周二夜间在主要的印度尼西亚岛屿爪哇岛以西的波涛汹涌的海面上翻了船，让至少160人落入寒冷的水中。
Mr. Didi said that although 157 people had been rescued, the search was still continuing and that an unknown number of people remained unaccounted for.
迪迪称，虽然已有157人获救，但搜索工作依然在继续，因为仍有为数不详的人下落不明。
“We hope to get more information about how many people were actually on board,” Mr. Didi said in an interview.
迪迪在一次采访中说，“我们希望能对船上究竟有多少人得到更多的信息。”
The incident is one of the first major tests of a tough new policy announced last week by Prime Minister Kevin Rudd of Australia aimed at discouraging the thousands of asylum seekers who set out every year in often unsafe, crowded vessels for Christmas Island, a remote territory in the Indian Ocean that is Australia’s closest point to Indonesia. Australia has struggled for more than a decade to deter the asylum seekers from trying the dangerous journey.
这次事故是对澳大利亚总理陆克文(Kevin Rudd)一项严厉新政策的首次重要测试之一，陆克文在上周宣布这一新政策，目的是要打消难民海上冒险的念头，每年都有几千名难民试图搭乘往往是拥挤不堪、很不安全的船只前往圣诞岛，这块属于澳大利亚的遥远领土位于印度洋，是澳大利亚距离印度尼西亚最近的地方。十几年来，澳大利亚一直在努力劝阻难民不要尝试这种非常危险的旅行。
Under the policy announced Friday by Mr. Rudd, all asylum seekers arriving in Australia by boat are to be sent to refugee-processing centers in Papua New Guinea. If they are found to be entitled to refugee status under the United Nations convention on refugees, they will be resettled in Papua New Guinea, but they forfeit any right to seek asylum in Australia. The issue of asylum seekers is among the most contentious in Australian politics, and Mr. Rudd is facing a tough road to re-election in a national vote to be held within weeks.
根据陆克文周五宣布的政策，所有乘船来到澳大利亚的难民将被送到位于巴布亚新几内亚的难民管理中心。如果他们符合联合国难民公约认可的难民资格，就将被安置在巴布亚新几内亚，但他们会丧失在澳大利亚寻求庇护的权利。难民问题一直是澳大利亚政治中最有争议的问题之一，几周内澳大利亚将进行全国大选，陆克文重新当选的道路艰难。
Mr. Rudd said that the latest tragedy validated his new policy, which has come under increasing fire on humanitarian grounds in Australia. He argued that the new system was the best way to stop asylum seekers from risking their lives at sea.
陆克文说，最近的悲剧是对他新政策的验证，在澳大利亚，越来越多的人指责新政策不人道。他辩称，新政策是阻止难民在海上冒生命危险的最佳办法。
“This underlines the need for policy changes in Australia on asylum seekers policy to send a very clear message to people smugglers to stop sending people by boat to Australia,” he told reporters during a campaign stop in Melbourne on Wednesday.
周三他在墨尔本的一次竞选活动间隙对记者说，“悲剧凸显了在难民问题上澳大利亚需要改变政策的必要性。我们要向那些搞难民偷渡的人发出一个清晰的信息，不要再用船把难民运往澳大利亚了。”
But a damning report aired on Tuesday night by Australian broadcaster SBS about abuse at the Australian-run detention center on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea has greatly increased pressure on the prime minister to defend the policy. A former employee at the detention center, who resigned in April, detailed to SBS’s Dateline program what he described as the rape and torture of detainees at the facility.
但是澳大利亚广播公司澳大利亚民族电视台(SBS)周二晚间播放的一条报道，极大地增加了总理为其政策辩护的压力，报道谴责了澳大利亚在巴布亚新几内亚马努斯岛上的拘留中心发生的虐待事件。一名拘留中心的前员工给SBS的“每日专栏”节目(Dateline)提供了他描述为强奸和虐待被拘留者的爆料，该员工已在4月份辞职。
“I’ve never seen human beings so destitute, so helpless and so hopeless before,” Rod St George, a former employee of the security contractor G4S, told SBS. “In Australia, the facility couldn’t even serve as a dog kennel. The owners would be jailed.”
罗德·圣乔治(Rod St George)是保安服务外包公司G4S的前员工，他告诉SBS，“我从来没见过如此赤贫、如此无助、如此无望的人。要是在澳大利亚，这种设施连狗的收容所都够不上。这样的狗收容所的主人是会进监狱的。”
A decade ago, under Prime Minister John Howard, asylum seekers were transported to nearby island nations for a lengthy processing intended to remove the incentive for claiming asylum on Australia’s shores. Mr. Rudd abandoned the policy when he became prime minister for the first time in 2007, which led to an explosion in the number of arrivals.
10年前，在约翰·霍华德(John Howard)任总理期间，难民被运到附近的岛国，在那里等待漫长的审核过程，目的是消除让难民到澳大利亚口岸寻求庇护的诱因。陆克文在2007年首次当选首相后放弃了这一政策，之后到来澳大利亚的难民人数激增。
In 2012, Prime Minister Julia Gillard opened new offshore detention centers in Nauru and on Manus Island in Papua New Guinea, but they lacked the capacity to handle the deluge of arrivals and did little to discourage them.
2012年，茱莉亚·吉拉德(Julia Gillard)总理在巴布亚新几内亚的瑙鲁和马努斯岛上开设了新的离岸拘留中心，但是这些设施缺少处理大批到来者的能力，也未能阻止难民的到来。