HONG KONG — When Alan Guo was chief strategist at Google China, he would have leisurely conversations with Fan Bao, a Beijing banker, exchanging ideas about the future of the Internet in China and swapping gossip about industry personalities. Mr. Bao, who had been a strategist at a Chinese technology company before setting up his own boutique investment bank in 2004, would occasionally prod Mr. Guo about his plans.
香港——当郭去疾(Alan Guo)在谷歌中国任首席战略官的时候，他会和北京的银行业高层包凡闲聊，交流彼此对中国互联网未来的看法，谈谈业界名人的八卦。包凡曾是一家中国科技公司的战略官，后来于2004年创立了自己的精品投行。他有时会打探郭去疾的计划。
“I asked him why he was still working for Google and not as an entrepreneur,” Mr. Bao recalled in a recent interview. “He didn’t say anything, but was giving the knowing smile. That moment I knew he had already caught the bug and would launch his start-up one day.”
“我问他，怎么还在给谷歌打工，没有自己当老板呢？”包凡在近期的采访中回忆道。“他什么也没说，但给了个会意的微笑。当时我就知道，他已经有兴趣了，有朝一日肯定会创业。”
Mr. Bao’s guess proved correct, and he later helped Mr. Guo raise money for his start-up, an online retailer called LightInTheBox. When Mr. Guo decided to take the company public last year, Mr. Bao’s bank, the China Renaissance Group, was his first choice to help with the deal, even though the firm had never worked on an initial public offering before.
包凡的猜测果然没错，后来，他得以协助郭去疾的初创企业——互联网零售商兰亭集势(LightInTheBox)——进行融资。当郭去疾去年决定让公司上市的时候，包凡的华兴资本成为了他的首选，尽管这家投行之前从未从事首次公开募股(IPO)方面的工作。
“I had had a long relationship with Fan,” Mr. Guo said. He said he hired China Renaissance because “they really understand the China market. They are really steeped in the China market. And they really understood us.”
“我和包凡认识很长时间了，”郭去疾说。他表示，自己之所以聘请了华兴资本，是因为“他们非常了解中国市场，真的是在中国市场里摸爬滚打。他们也非常了解我们。”
For Mr. Bao, winning friends in China’s budding start-up community has been a boon to business. Fourteen months after LightInTheBox listed in New York, Mr. Bao’s upstart bank has managed to leapfrog some of the biggest names on Wall Street. It ranks No. 2 on the list of underwriters of Chinese companies going public in the United States so far this year, according to Dealogic — just behind UBS, but ahead of Credit Suisse and Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit.
对包凡来说，在中国新生的创业圈子里结交朋友对生意大有裨益。兰亭集势在纽约上市14个月后，包凡的那家新近崛起的银行成功地跑到了一些华尔街大牌的前面。根据Dealogic提供的数据，在今年迄今为止的中国企业赴美上市的承销商榜单中，华兴资本位居第二，仅次于瑞银(UBS)，力压瑞信(Credit Suisse)和美银美林(Bank of America Merrill Lynch)。
Mr. Bao’s rapid success reflects, in part, the shifting fortunes of Chinese I.P.O.s in the United States. The market for such offerings had been frozen since mid-2011, when a spate of accounting fraud scandals and attacks by short-sellers drove several Chinese companies to delist from United States markets.
包凡的迅速成功，一定程度上反映了中国企业赴美上市的形势变化。2011年中，由于一系列的假账丑闻和做空者的攻击，多家在美国上市的中国企业被迫退市。自那以后，此类IPO的市场一直处于冰冻期。
But demand has returned this year because of a broad rally that has pushed United States stock indexes to benchmark highs and propelled valuations for technology companies. Chinese companies have raised $3.5 billion in new listings in the United States so far this year — more than the combined total from 2009 to 2013. Up next is Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant that is expected to raise as much as $20 billion in one of the biggest I.P.O.s in the history of United States markets, perhaps as soon as September.
不过到了今年，因为牛市将美国的股指推至新高，并让科技公司的估值水涨船高，此类需求再次旺盛起来。截至目前，今年新赴美上市的中国企业已募集了35亿美元（约合220亿元人民币），超过了2009到2013年间的总和。接下来将是中国电商巨头阿里巴巴集团。预计本次IPO将跻身美国股市历史上规模最大的上市案之列，或可募集200亿美元，可能最早在9月进行。
While China Renaissance did not get a piece of the Alibaba I.P.O., it has been cashing in on a flurry of recent Chinese technology listings. Those include Weibo, China’s answer to Twitter, which raised $285 million in April, and also JD.com, Alibaba’s closest competitor in the e-commerce space, which raised $1.8 billion in May in the biggest United States listing of a Chinese Internet company to date.
尽管华兴资本并未在阿里巴巴的IPO中分得一杯羹，但它正在从一连串的中国科技企业上市案中获利。其中包括类似Twitter的新浪微博，以及阿里巴巴在电商领域最接近的竞争对手京东。微博于4月上市，募集了2.85亿美元；京东则于5月上市，募集了18亿美元，是迄今为止中国互联网企业在美国的最大一桩上市案。
Here again, relationships have been critical. Mr. Bao first met JD.com’s founder, Richard Liu, in 2007, soon after he had closed a bunch of traditional electronics shops in Beijing to start his online venture.
在这件事上，关系又发挥了关键作用。2007年，包凡第一次遇到京东创始人刘强东(Richard Liu)。当时，刘强东刚刚关闭了几家在北京的传统电子商店，开始网上创业。
“I didn’t see the incredibility when I first met him,” Mr. Bao said of Mr. Liu, who is now 41. “But he was so confident and convinced in his business that I thought, ‘He must know something I don’t.’ ”
谈到现年41岁的刘强东时，包凡的说，“第一次见到他的时候，我没看出什么过人之处。不过他对自己的公司特别自信、特别坚定，所以我想，‘他肯定懂一些我不明白的东西。’”
Mr. Bao kept in touch and has worked with JD.com, formerly known as 360buy.com, on most of its fund-raising deals over the last seven years. That included a $215 million transaction in March of this year to sell a 15 percent stake in the company to Tencent, a giant Chinese social messaging and online video gaming company. Since going public in May, JD.com’s shares have risen about 45 percent, and Mr. Liu’s stake in the company is worth about $8 billion.
包凡保持了与刘强东的联系。过去七年间，京东的网址从360buy.com变为了JD.com，而几轮融资中，多数都有包凡相助。其中包括今年3月京东与腾讯达成的协议，将15%的股份出售给这家中国社交即时通讯与网游巨头，交易金额达2.15亿美元。自5月上市以来，京东的股价上涨了大约45%，而刘强东所持的公司股份目前价值约80亿美元。
“The vision of China Renaissance is really to identify these top entrepreneurs and build a relationship with them early on and grow with them,” Mr. Bao said.
“华兴资本的目标是，真正找到这些顶尖的企业家，及早与他们建立联系，与他们共同成长，”包凡说。
Mr. Bao characterizes his firm’s focus as technology in a broad sense, concentrating on companies that will thrive in China’s “new economy” — one that is driven by the adoption of digital innovations that are shaking up traditional industries like retailing, education, health care and logistics, among others.
包凡将旗下投行的定位放在广义的科技领域，重点是那些将在中国的“新经济”中蓬勃发展的企业。推动新经济的是对电子类创新的应用，而这种创新正在重塑零售、教育、医疗和物流等传统行业。
“If you want to invest in China, there’s nothing else to invest in other than these technology companies because everything else is dead,” Mr. Bao says. “Only the technology companies are growing.”
“如果想在中国投资，除去科技公司就没有什么了，因为其他东西都死气沉沉，”包凡说。“只有科技公司在成长。”
That includes companies like BitAuto Holdings, an online media company that provides nationwide information on car prices at different dealerships, as well as industry news and reviews. In 2007, China Renaissance helped the company bring in $15 million in financing from investors that included DCM, a venture capital firm based in Silicon Valley and Beijing. BitAuto went public in the United States in 2010, and its shares have since quintupled.
易车网就是其中之一。这家网媒企业提供全国范围内的汽车经销商比价信息、行业新闻及测评。2007年，华兴资本帮助易车网获得1500万美元的融资，投资者中包括在硅谷和北京执业的风投公司DCM。易车网于2010年在美国上市，如今的股价已是当初的五倍。