The number of international students enrolling in English universities has dropped for the first time in nearly three decades, interrupting a long-term trend of double-digit growth.
近30年来，英国大学招收的国际学生人数第一次有所下降，长期以来的两位数增长就此停滞。
A new report by the Higher Education Funding Council for England examines recent shifts in enrollment patterns and discusses their possible causes. The nations that make up the United Kingdom have individual responsibility for higher education, and the report addresses only the situation in England.
英格兰高等教育基金管理委员会(Higher Education Funding Council for England)的一份最新报告检视了近期招生形势的变化，并对可能的原因进行了讨论。英国的联邦国对高等教育是独立负责的，这份报告所分析的只是英格兰的情况。
Britain attracts more international students than any country except the United States and puts a figure for the overall value to its economy of foreign currency earnings from higher education at about £10 billion, or nearly $17 billion.
除了美国之外，英国是世界上吸引国际学生最多的国家，高等教育的总体产值对国民经济中的外汇收入贡献良多，达到大约100亿英镑，约合近170亿美元。
The report says that the number of students enrolling in full-time “taught graduate programs,” which include many master’s programs, declined 1 percent from the 2010-11 to the 2012-13 academic years. That decline is especially worrying for institutions because those programs tend to be dominated by foreign students. According to the report, in 2012-13, 74 percent of entrants to full-time master’s programs were from outside Britain.
该报告指出，就读于包括许多硕士项目在内的全日制“授课式研究生项目”的学生人数在2010-11学年至2012-2013学年之间下降了1个百分点。这对教育机构来说尤其令人担心，因为读这些项目的主要是外国学生。根据报告，在2012-13学年，74%的全日制硕士项目的学生都来自英国以外的国家。
Master’s programs, which are usually a year long, are often a significant source of income for universities, as well as a potential future source of teaching staff members. Their short duration, relative to similar programs elsewhere, puts British universities under more pressure to maintain international recruitment levels.
学制一般为一年的硕士项目通常是高校重要的收入来源，也是未来教学团队的潜在培养基地。它们与其他地方类似项目相比较短的学制让英国高校在维持国际招生水准方面面临更多压力。
According to Janet Ilieva, the author of the funding council report, a recent analysis by the council indicates that there is a high progression rate from full-time taught graduate programs to doctoral programs, so the drop could be a worrisome sign for future teaching and research capacity. “The implication is that this is putting the long-term viability of certain subjects under threat,” she said.
基金委员会这份报告的作者珍妮特·伊利耶娃(Janet Ilieva)表示，该委员会最近的一个分析指出，全日制授课式研究生项目的学生有很大可能会继续在博士项目中深造，所以这些项目的学生人数下降可能是未来教学与研究人才数量方面一个令人忧虑的信号。“它背后的含义是，某些特定学科的长期发展能力正面临威胁，”她说。
Another development the report highlights is a sharp drop in the number of full-time undergraduate entrants from other European Union countries. Those students pay the same tuition as domestic British students, for whom the government caps the amount of tuition that universities can charge. Their number fell by a quarter in 2012-13, when the tuition cap at most universities in England rose to £9,000, or around $15,000. The report identifies the tuition increase as the likely cause of the decline.
报告强调的另一个变化，是全日制本科教育中其他欧盟国家学生人数的显著减少。这些学生与英国学生所付的学费相同，不过后者的学费是由政府代缴的。2012-13学年，当英格兰大多数大学的学费上涨至9000英镑，即1.5万美元左右时，欧盟其他国家学生的人数下降了四分之一。报告认定，学费上涨很可能是学生人数下降的原因。
The last time international student numbers decreased in Britain was in the early 1980s, when universities began charging international students tuition.
上一次英国招收的国际学生人数下降，还是在上世纪八十年代初期，那时高校刚开始向国际学生收取学费。
The report also calls attention to the growing numbers of Chinese students at British universities. They now represent nearly a quarter of all students enrolled in full-time master’s programs and make up the second-largest cohort after British students, at 26 percent.
报告还呼吁大家关注在英国大学里中国学生人数的增长。在全日制硕士项目中，中国留学生如今已经占到了所有就读学生的近四分之一，仅次于占总人数26%的英国本地学生，成为第二大的群体。
That increase has taken place as the numbers of students from India, Pakistan, and Iran, which historically sent large cohorts of graduate students to Britain, have declined. The numbers of students coming from Pakistan and India have halved since 2010, even as entries from other countries have increased, according to the report.
在中国生源增长的同时，历史上曾经在英国研究生人群组成中占据较大份额的印度、巴基斯坦与伊朗学生的人数有所下降。根据这份报告，来自巴基斯坦和印度的学生自2010年起减少了一半，尽管来自其他国家的新生人数有所上升。
Those developments paint a worrying picture for British universities, which seem to have borne the brunt of a confluence of events. “We can’t point to causality,” Ms. Ilieva said, but the timing of the shifts suggest some factors that might be at play.
这些变化为英国大学描绘了一幅前途堪忧的景象，它看上去是一系列事件共同冲击造成的后果。“我们无法明确指出因果关系，”伊利耶娃说，但这些变化所处的时间点表明，有些因素可能在其中起到了一定作用。
Immigration, for one, has become a contentious political issue in Britain in recent years, and the government’s efforts to limit immigration figures have at times conflicted with the aims of universities. Universities UK, the lobbying organization for vice chancellors, has opposed the government’s approach to immigration, warning that including students in migration figures would be detrimental to universities.
比如说移民问题，近年来在英国一直都是颇受争议的政治议题，政府限制移民人数的努力经常会与高校的目标有所冲突。英国大学组织(Universities UK)是大学校长组成的一个游说组织，它对政府的移民政策持反对意见，该组织警告道，把学生包含在移民统计人数内的做法对大学来说十分不利。
Policy revisions, such as the elimination of work entitlement for foreign students at private institutions, a move designed to curb abuses by bogus institutions, also had an effect on international enrollments.
对一些政策进行修订，比如说减少对私立学校的留学生颁发工作签证，本意是限制假冒学校滥用政策，但它对海外招生也有一定的影响。
Those shifts, all of which may have suggested to international students that Britain was becoming less hospitable to foreigners, coincided with efforts among Britain’s main competitors for foreign students to ease the path for them.
对国际学生来说，这些改变也许都表明，英国对外国人越来越不友好了，而与此同时，英国的主要竞争者们则都在努力为留学生申请入学的道路扫清障碍。