Many people who worked with Hillary Rodham Clinton, from low-level aides in the State Department up to President Obama, “found themselves liking her more with each interaction, even if they had been worked over,” the authors of “H R C” write. They quote a member of Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates’s inner circle, who somewhat patronizingly describes it as traversing the “stages of Hillary”: “You know, you first dread the prospect of working with her, then you sort of begrudgingly begin to respect her, then you outright respect her and her incredible work ethic. You know, she’s inexhaustible, she’s tough-minded, and then you come to actually start to like her, and you just can’t believe it, but you actually like this person, and she’s charming and she’s funny and she’s interesting and she’s inquisitive and she’s engaging.”
从国务院低级助理到奥巴马总统，许多和希拉里•罗德姆•克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)共事的人都发现“愈和她合作就会愈喜欢她，就算被她痛批一顿也是如此，”《HRC》（希拉里的姓名缩写——译注）一书的作者们写道。他们引用了解国防部长罗伯特•M•盖茨(Robert M. Gate)的内部人士的话，此人带着点降尊纡贵的感觉，描述自己如何穿越“和希拉里相处的不同阶段”：“你知道，要和她一起工作时，你一开始会很担心；然后你会有点不大情愿地开始尊敬她；然后你就会彻底尊敬她，以及她那不可思议的敬业精神，她意志坚强，好像永远不知疲倦；再然后你就会开始喜欢上她。你自己也不敢相信，但你确实会喜欢上这个人，她迷人，风趣，有意思，充满好奇，富于魅力。”
This also happens to be a pretty good description of the arc of “H R C,” a new book about Mrs. Clinton’s tenure at the State Department, by Jonathan Allen, Politico’s former White House bureau chief (recently hired by Bloomberg News), and Amie Parnes, the White House correspondent for The Hill, a newspaper in Washington. “H R C” begins with a chapter about what the authors call “Hillary’s Hit List,” which seems meant to play into dark-side narratives from the Whitewater days that emphasized what reporters saw as her penchant for blaming enemies for her travails and those of her husband. But the book gradually builds into a largely sympathetic portrait of Mrs. Clinton as a smart and tireless A student, supportive of her teammates, loyal to President Obama and skilled at navigating the political and bureaucratic minefields of Washington.
这段话也正好适用于描述《HRC》这本书，它是一本关于克林顿夫人国务院任期的新书，作者是乔纳森·艾伦(Jonathan Allen)，《政治》(Politico)杂志前任白宫总编辑，最近被彭博新闻社聘用；以及艾米·帕尼斯(Amie Parnes)，华盛顿报纸《国会山》(The Hill)的跑白宫口记者。《HRC》的第一章叫做“希拉里热点事件列表”，似乎故意要从白水事件(Whitewater)时期那些黑暗面讲起，强调记者们都认为：她总是喜欢责怪政敌们刻意制造了她和丈夫的痛苦处境。但这本书渐渐变成了对希拉里充满同情的描述，把她塑造成一个聪明勤奋的优等生，支持团队伙伴，对奥巴马总统充满忠诚，娴熟地在华盛顿布满雷区的政治与官僚水域穿行。
The opening chapter (which was excerpted in Politico Magazine and The Hill) reports that Clinton aides put together a spreadsheet detailing who had endorsed Mr. Obama in the long primary battle, who had endorsed Mrs. Clinton and who had stayed on the fence, along with “extenuating, mitigating and amplifying factors.” The problem is that this chapter not only uses hyperventilated language to describe its material (“Mossad-style, get-you-when-you-least-expect-it payback politics”) but also recycles what is essentially old news. It was reported in 2008 that Clinton loyalists kept an accounting of people considered as enemies, traitors or ingrates.
第一章（《政治》和《国会山》都刊登了节选）中写道，希拉里的助手们制作了一张电子表格，里面列出了漫长的竞选战役中，谁曾经支持奥巴马，谁曾经支持希拉里，谁曾经出于种种“低估、缓和与夸大的原因”抱观望态度。问题是，这一章在描述素材时不仅使用了让人透不过气来的语言（“在你最意料不到的时候打击你的摩萨德式报复政治”），还重复叙述了不少旧闻。早在2008年就有报道说，克林顿的忠诚者曾经把人分类记录为敌人、叛徒和忘恩负义者。
Other sections of “H R C” will also be highly familiar to readers who have followed Hillary Clinton’s turbocharged career or have read recent books about the Obama administration like “The Promise” by Jonathan Alter or “The Obamians” by James Mann. Mr. Allen and Ms. Parnes may not break a lot of news here and have written nothing likely to endanger their future access to their subject. (Bloomberg News has announced that Mr. Allen will cover the White House and the 2016 presidential campaign.) But if their book largely ratifies the narrative of Hillary 2.0 embraced and promulgated by the Clinton machine, it also provides useful context and intelligent analysis, and a highly readable account of her tenure at Foggy Bottom. (Mrs. Clinton’s own memoir is due out later this year.)
如果你长期关注希拉里·克林顿充满张力的政治生涯，或者读过关于奥巴马政府的新著，比如约拿森·奥尔塔(Jonathan Alter)的《承诺》(The Promise)，或詹姆斯·曼恩(James Mann)的《奥巴马人》(The Obamians)等书籍，就会觉得《HRC》的其他章节似曾相识。本书作者艾伦和帕尼斯在书中并没有带来大量新闻，也没有写出任何可能会让他们触怒希拉里，从而在未来难以接触到她的东西（彭博新闻社已经宣布艾伦即将为该社报道白宫新闻及2016年总统竞选）。但是，如果说他们的书很大程度上认可了克林顿的宣传机器乐于接受、并大肆宣传的“希拉里2.0”的故事，那么这本书也为该故事提供了有用的语境与明智的分析，而且对于她在“雾谷”（Foggy Bottom，美国国务院的谑称，以讽刺该院发言人的发言经常模糊不清——译注）的任期做出了可读性很高的叙述（希拉里本人的回忆录将在今年年底出版）。
“H R C” is not much concerned with providing a broad overview of the administration’s policy making abroad — its efforts to deal with Iran, grapple with the upheavals of the Arab spring and amplify American influence in Asia — or the efficacy or wisdom of such policies. It is concerned primarily with tracking the increasingly influential role that Mrs. Clinton played in internal debates and with mapping the dynamics and personnel of Hillaryland. Its narrative is pumped full of colorful you-are-there details, like Gen. David H. Petraeus playing the role of officer and gentleman during a long flight home from Saudi Arabia, offering Mrs. Clinton his bed at the back of the plane, while he stretched out on the floor outside the door to the compartment.
《HRC》并没有致力于全面概述这届政府的对外决策集团——它如何对付伊朗、怎样处理阿拉伯之春的巨变，又怎样扩大美国在亚洲的影响——也没有描写这些政策是多么有效或明智。它主要追溯了希拉里是如何在内部讨论中愈来愈有影响力，描绘了“希拉里王国”的走势与人员情况。叙事中充满生动鲜明，令人身临其境的细节，比如描写大卫·H·彼得雷乌斯将军(Gen. David H. Petraeus)在从美国飞往沙特阿拉伯的旅途中扮演军官与绅士角色，让希拉里在他专机后面的床上休息，而他自己躺在门外的地板上。
The book also provides a snappy account of Mrs. Clinton’s journey from Obama outsider (“You’re likable enough, Hillary,” Senator Obama quipped during a 2008 debate) to trusted adviser and comrade in arms (after Mrs. Clinton suffered a concussion in December 2012, the president expressed his concern to one of her aides: “I love her, love her,” he is reported as saying. “I love my friend.”)
本书还生动地描写了希拉里如何从奥巴马圈子的局外人（“你已经足够可爱了，希拉里，”2008年，参议员奥巴马曾在一次辩论中这样奚落她）一路变成他可以信赖的顾问与亲密战友（2012年12月，希拉里脑震荡后，总统曾对她的一位助手表达了对她的关怀之情，据报道，他当时说：“我爱她，我爱她，我爱我的朋友。”）。
As this book and myriad other accounts have noted, such amity did not extend to the president’s and secretary of state’s staff members. “It’s like the Civil War. We’re the North, and we beat you,” one Obama aide is quoted saying in January 2013, while a former State Department official is quoted complaining that the young, controlling Obama foreign policy aides were hardly “your Kissingers or Brzezinskis.”
正如这本书和其他无数报道指出的，总统与其他国务院成员的相处并没有这么融洽。“这就像南北战争。我们是北方，我们要打败你们，”2013年1月，有报道引用一位奥巴马助理的话；与此同时，一位前国务院官员的抱怨也被引用，他说奥巴马手下那些年轻、控制欲强的外交政策助理们“可不是什么基辛格(Kissingers)或者布热津斯基(Brzezinskis)”。
The authors of “H R C” describe how Mrs. Clinton learned to combine the power of her own celebrity with her knowledge of the bureaucratic levers of governance, promoting the American brand abroad while attempting to rebrand herself. In doing so, they retrace much of the same ground covered by “The Secretary,” a 2013 book by the BBC’s State Department correspondent Kim Ghattas, but they do so with less hagiographic ardor and more political and foreign policy context.
《HRC》的作者们描写希拉里是如何把名望带来的权力与对政府官僚体制的了解结合起来，在海外推广美国品牌，同时又重塑自身品牌。在这个过程中，他们重复了许多与《国务卿》(The Secretary)一书相同的背景，这是BBC的国务院记者基姆·加塔斯(Kim Ghattas)2013年的新书。但《HRC》的作者们并没有做很多图解，而是更关注政治和外交语境。
The portrait of Hillary Clinton that emerges from “H R C” is that of a woman with “a bias for action,” in one source’s words, someone who would rather act than be passive in the face of opportunity. Ms. Parnes and Mr. Allen portray the secretary as adept at mastering complicated policy material, attentive to details and possessed of an “unrelenting work ethic” — so conscientious and driven that her friends and even President Obama worried, at times, about her health.
《HRC》把希拉里·克林顿描绘为一个“热爱行动”的女人，这是一个信息源的原话。在机会面前，她宁愿采取行动，绝不被动等待。帕尼斯和艾伦说她娴熟地掌握复杂的政治资料，关注细节，有着“不屈不挠的敬业精神”——她实在太过认真负责，朋友们，甚至奥巴马总统有时候都会担心她的健康。
They depict her as working diligently to put “together all the pieces” (that is, information and coalition support) “needed to persuade Obama to intervene in Libya.” As for the contentious subject of Benghazi, Libya, the authors argue “there was ample evidence that, of all the major national security principals in Washington,” Mrs. Clinton “had been most on top of the situation” on the night of the attack on the American mission there, which left four Americans dead. Last month, Mrs. Clinton called Benghazi her “biggest regret” as secretary of state. (A bipartisan report from the Senate Intelligence Committee released last monthconcluded that the attack could have been prevented and criticized the State Department for failing to have bolstered security there; Mrs. Clinton was mentioned only in a Republican addendum, which singled her out, as head of the department, for bearing ultimate responsibility for the lax security.)
他们描写她勤奋工作，“把所有碎片拼凑在一起”（包括各种信息和盟友提供的材料），“以便说服奥巴马干预利比亚局势”。至于有争议的利比亚班加西事件，两位作者写道，“有大量证据表明，在华盛顿的所有重要国家安全负责人里，”关于那天晚上袭击美国使团，导致四名美国人死亡事件中，希拉里是“最掌握大局的人”。上个月，希拉里说班加西事件是她在国务卿任内“最大的遗憾”（参议院情报委员会上个月发表了一份获得两党支持的报告，认为该袭击本来可以被阻止，并批评国务院没有支持安保；希拉里的名字只在一份共和党附录中被提到，从而令身为国务院最高长官的她免于为松懈的安保措施负最终责任）。
In “H R C,” Ms. Parnes and Mr. Allen depict Mrs. Clinton as part “old-fashioned Midwestern girl” and part wily pol, someone who writes thank you notes and asks after family members partly because it’s good manners and she cares, and partly because it’s good politics; perhaps she’s not the instinctive retail politician that her husband is, but she’s way more adept than Mr. Obama at nurturing personal relationships in Washington and around the world.
在《HRC》中，帕尼斯和艾伦还把希拉里描述成半是“老式中西部女孩”，半是狡猾的政客；她会给你写致谢信，问候你的家庭成员，部分是因为她有礼貌而且关心你，部分是因为这是良好的政治手段；或许她并不像她丈夫那样，天生就是政治贩子，但她的方式在华盛顿乃至全世界培养人脉时却比奥巴马更有效。