“Superman!” gasps Lois Lane, freshly scooped from beneath the nodding carbines of a South American firing squad. “Right!” says the boxy blue-and-red figure who holds her in his arms. “And still playing the role of gallant rescuer!” His mouth is set in a kind of grimace, but with dimples. Is he frowning? Tautly grinning? And what can he mean by “still playing the role”? This is only the second Superman comic ever, from July 1938, and already our hero — caped and airborne, with Lois coiled against his unbreachable bosom — is carrying a freight of super-irony.
“超人！”刚从南美行刑场的卡宾枪下逃过一劫的洛伊斯·莱恩(Lois Lane)气喘吁吁地喊道。“是我！”穿着红蓝衣衫的壮汉把她揽在怀里，肯定地回答道，“我还在扮演英勇的救世主角色！”他咧着嘴，似乎在做鬼脸，但露出了酒窝。他在皱眉吗？还是在紧张地咧嘴笑？他说“还在扮演这个角色”，这又是什么意思？这只是自1938年7月以来的第二部《超人》漫画，但是我们的英雄——穿着披风，飞来飞去，将洛伊斯护在他坚实的胸前——已经开始蕴含着巨大的讽刺。
Then again, as we learn from “Superman,” Larry Tye’s exhaustive and engaging book, irony attends every phase of this story. Superman’s creators — Jerry Siegel (writing) and Joe Shuster (drawing) — were a pair of Cleveland geeks whose underdoggery was purer almost than the ­alpha-male prowess of the pulp heroes they adored: Tarzan, Hugo Danner, Clark (Doc) Savage Jr. and so on. Both the sons of immigrant Jewish tailors, Siegel and Shuster were uncool, and they were girl-less. They had no money. Shuster, the artist, was horribly nearsighted. And how they toiled, through lost nights of teenage-­dom, at their secret weapon: their made-up ultrabeing, their hero to out-hero them all. First, in a misfire, he was naughty (a mind-reading tramp called “the Super-Man”), then he was good. Then very good. At last, on what Tye calls “a hot summer night of divinelike inspiration,” it happened: the elements fused, and the 19-year-old Siegel, scribbling madly in his bathroom, came up with the doomed planet Krypton, Lois Lane, Clark Kent the mild-mannered reporter. . . .
从拉里·泰伊(Larry Tye)详尽、迷人的《超人》(Superman)一书里，我们发现，故事发展的每个阶段都伴随着讽刺。超人的创造者——杰里·西格尔（Jerry Siegel，脚本作者）和乔·舒斯特（Joe Shuster，漫画作者）——是一对来自克利夫兰的怪人。他们从小就不被人看好，就像廉价漫画书里他们崇拜的英雄一样——比如泰山(Tarzan)、雨果·丹纳(Hugo Danner)和小克拉克·萨维奇(Clark Savage Jr.)——甚至比他们还要卑微。他们都是犹太移民的孩子，父母做着裁缝活儿，他们土里土气，没有女孩喜欢。他们都没钱。漫画创作者舒斯特还有高度近视。在青春期无数个迷惘的夜晚，他们努力制造自己的秘密武器：一个自己造出来的超级生命，超越所有英雄的英雄。一开始，他们写的英雄有点坏（是个会读心的流浪汉，名叫“超级男人”），这次尝试不太成功。后来他成了好人。之后，成了大好人。最后，在一个被泰伊称作“神启般的炎热的夏夜”，一切就这样发生了：各种元素融合在了一起，19岁的西格尔在卫生间里疯狂地一顿涂鸦，编出了灭亡的氪星球、洛伊斯·莱恩、温和的记者克拉克·肯特(Clark Kent)……
Four years later, after many rejections, the boys finally got a Superman comic onto the newsstands: Action Comics No. 1, June 1938. The comics writer Grant Morrison, in his 2011 book “Supergods,” describes the cover image as looking “like a cave painting waiting to be discovered on a subway wall 10,000 years from now.” Superman, his body flexed with a terrible rectitude, is hoisting a car over his head and crushing its front end against a boulder. In the foreground a man flees wildly, “clutching his head,” as Morrison observes, “like Edvard Munch’s Screamer, his face a cartoon of gibbering existential terror.” And no wonder: this Superman is dynamically angry, an avatar of decency outraged, bashing through doors and tossing goons over the treetops. “Don’t get tough!” growls an interrupted wife beater. Says Superman: “Tough is putting mildly the treatment you’re going to get! You’re not fighting a woman, now!”
在遭到无数次退稿后，《超人》漫画终于在四年后面市了：刊登在1938年6月的《动作漫画》(Action Comics)第一期上。漫画作者格兰特·莫瑞森(Grant Morrison)，在2011年出版的他的新书《超级众神》(Supergods)里说，这本漫画的封面好像是“等待一万年后被人在地下洞穴里发现的壁画”。一身正气的超人正将一辆轿车举过头顶，把车头砸向一块巨石。在图片前部，一个男人正“抱头鼠窜”，如莫瑞森所述，“像极了爱德华·蒙克(Edvard Munch)《呐喊》里的人物，他的脸因为极度恐惧而变形了。”也难怪：此刻的超人俨然是正义的化身，他义愤填膺，破门而入，把暴徒扔向树梢。“你别动粗！”打老婆的人被拦住了，所以大声喊道。超人说：“对你这种人，动粗就算是客气的了！这次你的对手可不是女人了！”
Equally potent are the “Diary of a Wimpy Kid” shenanigans of poor Clark Kent, his alter ego, heartily scorned by Lois. Sad, really, that this magnificent and double-­natured figure had already been sold, rights, image and all, to the publishers of Action Comics for $130 — a deal that Tye, with hyperbole worthy of a Golden Age comics editor, calls the “original sin” of the comics industry and “a swindle on the order of the Dutch West India Company’s 1626 purchase of Manhattan from the natives for $24.” (In “Supergods,” Morrison takes a soberer view: “Superman was a foot in the door. . . . I’d suspect that both Siegel and Shuster imagined they’d create other, better characters.”)
跟《小屁孩日记》(Diary of a Wimpy Kid)里的恶作剧一样有趣的是他的另一个身份——可怜的克拉克·肯特——他总是被洛伊斯从心底里鄙视。可惜的是，这个迷人的有着双重身份的人物已经被售出了——版权、形象、所有的一切——以区区130美元的价格卖给了《动作漫画》的出版商。拉里·泰伊以黄金年代动漫（指的是20世纪30年代末到40年代末或50年代初的时期，现代漫画得以出版并广泛流行——编注）杂志编辑夸张的口吻，称这个交易是漫画业的“原罪”，是“赤裸裸的诈骗，堪比荷兰西印度公司1626年用24美元从土著居民手中购买曼哈顿”。（在《超级众神》中，莫瑞森对这件事的看法更冷静：“超人只是成功的第一步……我怀疑西格尔和舒斯特都以为他们能创造出其他更好的人物。”）
And so he was launched — not flying yet, still leaping in eighths of a mile, but with the wind beneath his cape. He proliferated and diversified into different lines of comic books. A slow and fantastical increase in powers was witnessed, as the collective reader-mind became absorbed in his possibilities. Tye (whose previous books include a biography of Satchel Paige) is very good on this, on the steady daydreamlike magnification of Superness: “His million-­decibel yell had enough intensity and pitch to topple tall buildings. What if a building fell on him? A tickle at most. His nostrils were super-acute. His typing was super-fast. . . . His gaze was intense enough to hypnotize a whole tribe of South American Indians at once. He could converse with a mermaid in her native tongue and beat a checkers expert his first time playing.” He was a champion of the oppressed, and his values were solidly New Deal — he took down slumlords, arms dealers and random unincorporated bullies. In real-world court he successfully faced first Wonder Man and then Captain Marvel (“the World’s Mightiest Mortal”), charging them with being Superman knockoffs.
所以，他被发射了出去——还不会飞，只是一跳就能跃过200米，不过得借助披风下面的风力。超人衍生出不同的漫画系列。我们见证了他的能力在慢慢地、神奇地增强，因为读者们想出的各种各样的超能力，都被集中在了他身上。泰伊（他之前还写过萨奇·佩吉[Satchel Paige]的传记）非常擅长像描述白日梦般形容超人的超能力：“他的怒吼有百万分贝，强度之大，声音之高，可以震塌高楼。要是楼塌了砸着他怎么办？没关系，对他来说跟挠痒痒一样。他的鼻子超级灵敏。他打字的速度超快……，他的眼神可以瞬间催眠一整个南美印第安部落。他能用美人鱼的母语跟她说话。第一次下棋就能打败国际象棋大师。”他是被压迫者的斗士，他的价值观完全是“罗斯福新政”的理念——他收拾恶房东、军火商和恶霸。在现实世界的法庭上，他先是打败了“神奇先生”(Wonder Man)，接着又打败了“神奇船长”（Captain Marvel，“世界上最伟大的人”），指控他们是超人的冒牌货。
But he was a lonely, lonely man-god. Was he even a real superhero? On his native Krypton (now destroyed) he would have been normal, after all: it was only Earth’s “slighter gravity pull” that gave him his superstrength. And Lois might dote upon the all-conquering Superman, but she despised Clark Kent. Was there anyone out there who could love them both — love him, that is, in the totality of his being? Displaced religiosity swirled, still swirls, around him. He is Christlike in his virtue and singularity. He is also, according to Tye, Jewish, from his Judaic-­sounding real name, Kal-El, to the Moses-on-the-Nile echoes of his infantile voyage to Earth. Tye diagnoses Superman’s “lingering heartsickness” as “survivor’s guilt” and adds, “A last rule of thumb: When a name ends in ‘man,’ the bearer is Jewish, a superhero or both.”
但他是个孤独的半人半神。他是真正的超级英雄吗？在他的故乡氪星球（已经被摧毁了），他只是个正常人，只是因为地球引力较小，才让他力量超强。洛伊斯迷恋的是能战胜一切的超人，却鄙视克拉克·肯特。会有人同时爱他的两个身份吗？他的宗教倾向始终是个谜团。他的品德和独特性像耶稣。同时，如泰伊所说，他身上也有犹太元素。他的真名Kal-El听起来像个犹太名字，他在婴儿时期被送往地球避难，像极了摩西被放在尼罗河上逃生。泰伊将超人“挥之不去的抑郁心情”归咎于“幸存者的内疚”，并补充说，“还有一个经验就是：如果一个人的名字以man结尾，那么这个人不是犹太人，就是超级英雄，或者是个犹太超级英雄。”
Tye’s account of Superman’s 1946 run-in with the Ku Klux Klan is slightly muffled, perhaps because it has been thoroughly covered elsewhere. (The radio show “Adventures of Superman” took on the Klan in a 16-episode series called “Clan of the Fiery Cross.”) But he makes up for it with a sizzling portrait of the extraordinary Mort Weisinger, a brutal, obese bottom-­liner who was also, in a crowning Supermanic irony, the franchise’s most fabulous and poetic editor. When Weisinger fired a well-respected artist in 1966, and said artist then asked if he’d heard right, Weisinger said, “Do you need a kick in the stomach to know when you’re not wanted?” And yet it was the Weisinger years that gave us Brainiac, Bizarro, the full terror of kryptonite, a gorgeous, pulsing sprawl of Superman mythology. “He divined a fairy-tale universe,” Tye writes, “with its own laws of nature.”
泰伊对1946年“超人大战3K党”的讲述有点含混不清，也许是因为其他地方对此有完整的介绍。但是他对另一个人的精彩讲述弥补了这一点，这个人就是与众不同的莫特·维新格(Mort Weisinger)。他冷酷、肥胖、唯利是图，最讽刺的是，他也是《动作漫画》最优秀、最有想象力的编辑。1966年维新格辞掉一位很受尊重的艺术家时，艺术家问他是不是听错了，维新格说，“还需要给你肚子上踢一脚，你才知道这儿不需要你了吗？”但是正是在维新格做编辑的那些年，我们有了布莱尼亚克(Brainiac)和逆反超人(Bizarro)这一系列氪星大反派和一个个华丽的、让人热血沸腾的超人神话。“他开启了一个神话世界”，泰伊写道，“按照他自己的法则。”
For me the story lessens in excitement the closer it gets to the present: the predictably gritty reboots of the comic book, the megabucks ’70s and ’80s movies. As a reading experience, this all represents a bit of a petering-out. It’s in the middle of Tye’s book, in the thick of it, that you find the luscious old-school moments — as when George Reeves, less than thrilled to be TV’s first Superman, introduces himself to Phyllis Coates, the new Lois Lane, and says, “Well, babe, this is it: the bottom of the barrel.” He’s quite wrong, of course: Superman will be 75 next year, and his barrel is apparently bottomless. Mighty, solitary, wearing his underpants on the outside as if in an endless anxiety dream, he flies on.
在我看来，这个故事到现在，已经越来越没意思了：《动作漫画》要重启《超人》系列，好莱坞也会继续拍摄曾在20世纪七八十年代票房大卖的《超人》电影。作为一种阅读体验，《超人》已经显出疲态。而在泰伊的书中，在其最精彩的部分，你能找到那种老派的强烈的感官刺激。乔治·李维（George Reeves，第一个出现在电视剧里的超人）把自己介绍给菲利斯·科茨（Phyllis Coates，洛伊斯·莱恩的扮演者）时，不温不火地说道，“嗯，小妞，就这样了：就要到尾声了。”他真是大错特错：超人到明年就75岁了，但是很明显他的故事还远没结束。他还在飞翔，强大而孤独，仿佛在无边的焦虑的梦中……内裤依然穿在外面。