NEW DELHI — A powerful cyclone crashed against the eastern coast of India on Sunday, uprooting trees, lashing the area with heavy rain and wind, and disrupting power and communication lines.
新德里——周日，一个超强气旋重创印度东部海岸，将树木连根拔起，给该地区带来狂风暴雨，致使电力供应和通讯线路中断。
Close to 300,000 people were evacuated from their homes in parts of the states of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh as of Sunday evening, according to disaster and relief officials in each state. One of the worst-hit regions was the coast of Andhra Pradesh, where more than 130,000 people were evacuated starting on Saturday in preparation for the storm, and where the 15-mile eye of the storm passed on Sunday afternoon. The storm, which is called Cyclone Hudhud, hit the southern port city of Visakhapatnam, where there is a major naval base.
奥里萨邦和安得拉邦的救灾官员称，截至周日夜里，这两个邦的部分地区已经疏散了近30万人。受灾最严重的区域之一位于安得拉邦沿海地带，从周六开始，有超过13万人在风暴到来之前被疏散。周日下午，直径15英里（约合24公里）的风暴中心从这里经过。这个名为“胡德胡德”(Hudhud)的气旋袭击了南部港口城市维沙卡帕特南，那里有一处重要的海军基地。
“There is huge damage,” said N. Chandrababu Naidu, the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh, in a telephone interview with the Indian news channel NDTV. “Even to buildings, trees and also crops. Communication has totally collapsed.”
“损失巨大，”安得拉邦首席部长N·钱德拉巴布·奈度(N. Chandrababu Naidu)接受印度新闻频道新德里电视台(NDTV)的电话采访时说。“尤其是建筑物、树木，还有庄稼。通讯已彻底瘫痪。”
The Japanese island of Okinawa was also hit by a powerful typhoon, Vongfong, on Sunday. The typhoon was expected by Monday to fully reach the island of Kyushu, Japan, becoming the second severe storm to hit in a week, according to The Associated Press. At least 35 people were reported injured in Okinawa and Kyushu, where the authorities told 150,000 people to evacuate as the typhoon toppled trees, flooded streets and cut power to more than 60,000 homes. The Japan Meteorological Agency said the typhoon could reach the Tokyo area Tuesday, gradually losing strength as it moves up the archipelago.
周日，日本冲绳也遭遇了超强台风“黄蜂”(Vongfong)的袭击。据美联社(Associaed Press)报道，这次的台风预计将于周一在日本九州完全登陆，成为本周以来的第二场强风暴。据报道，在冲绳和九州至少有35人受伤，当地政府已经要求15万人疏散。与此同时，台风刮倒了树木，街道被洪水淹没，超过6万户居民电力供应中断。日本气象厅(The Japan Meteorological Agency)称，台风可能于周二抵达东京地区，在日本列岛上向北移动时，风力会逐渐减弱。
In India, officials with the Indian Meteorological Department said to NDTV that the winds from the cyclone were about 121 miles per hour, earning a “very severe” cyclone designation, but that within six hours, the winds would diminish by half, reducing it to a cyclone. Six hours after that, officials said, winds would further weaken by half, making it a “depression” by midnight.
印度气象局(Indian Meteorological Department)官员对NDTV称，气旋风速约为每小时121英里，因此被形容为“超强”气旋，但在六小时内，风力就会减半，成为普通气旋。官员称，再过六小时，风力将会再减弱一半，到午夜成为“低压”。
At least two people in Andhra Pradesh were killed in the storm — one man who was hit by a felled tree and one woman who was crushed by a collapsing wall, according to A. R. Sukumar, the state’s disaster management commissioner. Three more people were killed in Odisha. On Saturday, an overloaded government evacuation boat capsized in the state after it hit a tree trunk, drowning a 6-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy, according to P. K. Mohapatra, the special relief commissioner in the state. A fisherman rescuing his boat at midnight on Saturday was also killed.
安得拉邦的灾害管理专员A·R·苏库马尔(A.R. Sukumar)称，该邦至少有两人在风暴中死亡——一名男性被倒下的大树砸死，另有一名女性被倒塌的墙砸死。奥里萨邦有三人死亡。据该邦救灾专员P·K·莫哈帕特拉(P. K. Mohapatra)透露，周六，一艘超载的政府疏散船只在该邦撞上树干并倾覆，导致一名六岁的女孩和一名13岁的男孩溺水身亡。一名渔夫在周六午夜在挽救自己的小船时遇难。
There was a brief lull in the storm in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday afternoon as the eye of the cyclone moved over land, but officials warned residents not to think that the storm had passed, and winds increased again to close to their initial levels.
周日下午当风暴中心移上陆地时，安得拉邦出现了短暂的平静，但官员们警告居民不要认为风暴已经停止，之后风力再次加大到最初的强度。
Arvind Kumar, an officer on special duty for disaster management who was posted to the city of Visakhapatnam for the storm, said that evacuations were taking place against the will of many residents, some of whom preferred to brave the storm and stay in their homes. Often in the event of severe weather, the worst affected are the area’s very poor, many of whom live in makeshift homes.
被派到维沙卡帕特南执行灾难管理特别任务的官员阿尔温德·库马尔(Arvind Kumar)表示，疏散举措违背了很多居民的意愿，其中一些人宁愿勇敢面对风暴，留在家中。遭遇恶劣天气时，这一区域受影响最为严重的通常是穷人，其中很多人住在临时搭建的房屋中。
Sanyasamma, 82, who goes by one name, was holed up in her home in the nearby city of Vizianagaram with her children and grandchildren. She was also providing shelter to a few local residents who had evacuated their huts in favor of her larger brick home.
在附近的维济亚讷格勒姆市，82岁的桑亚萨玛(Sanyasamma)和她的孩子及孙辈躲在家中。桑亚萨玛使用单名。她还为少数当地居民提供住所，后者离开了自己的小屋，来到了桑亚萨玛的大砖房。
“I have never seen this much rain in my entire life,” she said.
她说，“我这辈子从没有见过这么多雨。”
V. Raghu, 39, who works with an engineering firm in Afghanistan, came home to tend to his ailing father in Visakhapatnam during the storm. He was with his father in a hospital and worried that the power would go out and that they would soon run out of water if the storm did not stop.
39岁的V·拉古(V. Raghu)在阿富汗为一家工程公司工作，他在风暴期间回到位于维沙卡帕特南的家中，看望生病的父亲。他与父亲待在医院中，他担心如果风暴不停止，电力会用尽，而且很快就会停水。
“The whole city is hiding in their homes,” he said.
他说，“全城的居民都躲在家里。”
The Indian Meteorological Department predicted that the tide would surge three to six feet above its natural level when the cyclone hit, and advised at least six districts in Andhra Pradesh to suspend fishing operations.
印度气象局预测，气旋来袭时，潮位会比正常水位高三到六英尺（约合1.8米）。该局建议安得拉邦的至少六个地区暂停捕捞作业。
The state authorities had closed the Visakhapatnam port, railroad station and national highways on Saturday in preparation for the storm.
周六，安达拉邦相关机构已经关闭了维沙卡帕特南的港口、火车站及国道，迎接风暴的到来。