HONG KONG — A powerful typhoon killed at least two people and injured 72 others on Friday as it crossed Taiwan on its way toward the Chinese mainland, the authorities said.
香港——据台湾官方称，超强台风周五强力掠过台湾，造成至少两人死亡，72人受伤。台风随后向中国大陆逼近。
Typhoon Nepartak, the first typhoon to form in the northwestern Pacific this year, pounded the island with heavy rain and powerful winds, forcing the closure of schools and government offices. Video footage showed scenes of destruction with roofs ripped off buildings, trees uprooted and cars overturned.
此次的“尼伯特”台风是太平洋西北部今年形成的首个台风。它为岛内带来强降雨和强风，迫使学校和政府部门关闭。视频显示的破坏性场面中，建筑物的屋顶被掀起，树木被连根拔起，机动车被掀翻。
Josh Morgerman, an American who pursues storms and documents them online, wrote on Facebook that the typhoon was “one of the worst I’ve been in.” He was in the southeastern county of Taitung when Nepartak struck, he wrote, adding that “the howling was deafening as the air filled with lethal swirling debris.”
追踪并在网上记录台风的美国人乔什·莫尔杰曼(Josh Morgerman)在Facebook上写道，这次的台风是“我遇到的最严重的一次”。他写道，“尼伯特”袭击时，他正在台湾东南部的台东县，并补充，“咆哮声震耳欲聋，空中旋转的是能致命的废片。”
“The driveway is filled with every kind of wreckage from God knows where, including signs, branches, tin, a nice old chair, etc. The school across the street has lost almost all of its roof,” he wrote.
“道路上是各种各样鬼知道从哪里跑出来的残片，包括标识牌、树枝、金属罐、一把不错的旧椅子。街对面学校的房顶几乎都全没了，”他写道。
At least two people were reported to have been killed, the National Fire Agency, which is Taiwan’s general disaster response agency, said on Friday. Many of those injured were hit by falling objects as wind gusts reached 140 miles per hour, the agency said.
据台湾内政部消防署周五的通报，至少已有两人死亡。该部门是台湾级别最高的灾难应急中心。该机构还表示，许多伤者是被落下的物体击中，风速曾到每小时140英里。
The storm hit Taiwan as a Category 4 typhoon, the second-most powerful category, according to Tropical Storm Risk, a private forecasting organization based in Britain. The eye of the storm came ashore at 5:50 a.m. in Taitung County, and the typhoon slowed as it moved west.
位于英国的私人预测机构热带风暴风险(Tropical Storm Risk)称，袭击台湾的这次台风达到4级水平，这是仅次于最强级别的台风级别。早晨5点50分台风中心在台东县登陆，之后向西移动的过程中，速度有所放缓。
It caused power outages for about 360,000 households, according to the Taiwan Power Company.
台湾电力公司称，台风导致大约36万住户断电。
Trading on Taiwan’s financial markets was suspended Friday. Train and bus operators suspended some services, and dozens of flights were canceled.
周五，台湾的金融市场交易暂时关闭。火车和公交巴士运营商暂停了部分地区的服务，多个航班取消。
By afternoon, Tropical Storm Risk had downgraded Nepartak to a Category 2 storm as it headed toward the Chinese mainland. It was expected to make landfall in Fujian Province on Saturday morning, according to the China Meteorological Administration. The agency said it expected the storm to then lose force as it moved north into Zhejiang Province.
到下午，台风向中国大陆逼近，“热带风暴风险”(Tropical Storm Risk)将“尼伯特”的台风级别下调至2级。根据中国气象局称，预计将于周六早间在福建省登陆。该机构称，预计台风在向北靠近浙江省的过程中，势头将减弱。
The agency warned that Nepartak could bring heavy rainfall to China’s eastern coast. This comes as much of eastern China has faced torrential rains for days, with floods and hail claiming at least 164 lives and leaving many others injured and at least 26 missing, according to figures released by the Ministry of Civil Affairs on Friday.
中国气象局还警告说，“尼伯特”可能在中国东部沿海地区带来强降雨。中国东部的大部分地区此前已出现数天的强降雨、洪水和冰雹，根据中国民政部周五的数据，至少已有164人死亡，大量人员受伤，至少26人失踪。
The floods have displaced nearly two million people and destroyed 73,000 buildings, the ministry estimated.
该部估计，洪水致使近200万人转移，7.3万座建筑物被毁。