“Summer is my favorite time of year,” says Karlie Kloss, the 21-year-old supermodel whose cropped, tousled hair was the coveted cut of the year in 2013, and is again making headlines this season for its new, summery blond hue. “Because of the nice weather, I can spend my free time outside moving and staying active.” Kloss isn’t shy about her healthy habits: a vocal vegetarian, she designed dairy- and gluten-free cookies with Christina Tosi for Momofuku Milk Bar (a portion of the proceeds are donated to hunger relief). She also Instagrams frequent evidence of balanced eating and hours clocked at the gym, like this morning’s posts of her recent workout in New York City with the Nike Training Club master trainer Traci Copeland, during which she test-drove Nike’s upcoming fall 2014 collection.
“夏季是我最喜欢的季节，”21岁的超模卡莉·克劳斯(Karlie Kloss)说。她蓬乱的短发型是2013年女人们梦寐以求的发型。这一季她把头发染成了新的、有夏天感觉的金黄色，再次登上头条。“在这个美好的季节，我可以在户外度过空闲时间，多做运动。”克劳斯对自己的健康习惯毫不讳言：她公开宣布自己是素食者，她和克里斯蒂娜·托西(Christina Tosi)为福桃奶品店(Momofuku Milk Bar)设计了不含奶制品和谷蛋白的饼干（部分收益捐献给饥荒援助）。她还经常在Instagram上发布自己均衡饮食和健身锻炼的照片，比如今天早上就发布了她最近在纽约市和耐克健身俱乐部(Nike Training Club)的首席教练特拉奇·科普兰(Traci Copeland)一起健身的照片，健身时她试穿了耐克的2014年秋季系列。
Here, the classically trained ballerina answers T’s questions about how she maintains her physique, what motivates her to stay in shape (aside from, of course, her job) and which fitness goal she has yet to reach.
在这里，这位接受过传统训练的芭蕾舞女演员回答了T杂志的问题，包括她保持体形的方法、动力（当然除了为了工作之外）以及尚未实现的健身目标。
Q. How often do you exercise?
问：你多长时间运动一次？
A. I like to work out at least five days a week with a good balance of cardio and weight training.
答：我每周至少运动五次，在有氧运动和力量训练之间都有兼顾。
Working out: better with friends? Or alone?
你健身时是跟朋友一起还是一个人？
I actually take ballet with friends whenever we can coordinate schedules! Going with a friend makes it more fun. I like to switch it up. I think that’s the best way to really challenge your body and to become stronger in every way. That said, I think it’s so important that your workout routine is not dependent on someone else’s schedule. For me, exercise is an opportunity to get away from everything and focus on myself. It keeps me centered, and it’s the one or so hour in my day when I can clear my mind and just focus on movement.
实际上，只要我们能协调好时间，我就和会朋友们一起练芭蕾。和朋友一起更有趣。我喜欢变化。我觉得那是挑战你身体的最好办法，能让它一天天变得更强壮。即便如此，我觉得重要的是你的健身计划不能取决于他人的日程。对我来说，锻炼是一个机会，能让我远离所有的事情，只关注自己。它让我集中注意力，在一天中的这一个小时左右的时间里，我能清空思绪，只关注运动。
As a classically trained ballerina, how do you feel about the ballet-barre fitness craze?
作为一名接受过古典训练的芭蕾舞女演员，你对芭蕾舞扶手杠健身热潮怎么看？
Ballerinas are incredible athletes. Ballet focuses on strength, length and balance — the perfect combination for a workout. I think it’s great that ballet barre is bringing ballet disciplines to the gym.
芭蕾舞女演员是不可思议的运动员。芭蕾舞注重力量、耐力和平衡——对健身来说，这简直是完美的组合。我觉得芭蕾舞扶手杠把芭蕾舞训练带到健身房真是挺好的。
Do you prefer outdoor exercise, or in-gym sessions?
你更喜欢在室外锻炼还是在健身房锻炼？
Both! During the cold, snowy winter months in New York, there’s no other option but to head to the gym. When it starts to get nice out, I love to take advantage of the beautiful weather and exercise outdoors by going on a hike or bike ride.
都喜欢！在纽约寒冷、多雪的冬季，你没有别的选择，只能去健身房。天气转好的时候，我会充分利用好天气，去户外远足或骑自行车。
What motivates you to stay fit?
是什么激励你保持体形？
Being strong both physically and mentally. I exercise to challenge my body to reach new goals. Movement feeds my mind and gives me energy throughout the day.
我想在身体和精神上都保持强大。我锻炼的目的是挑战我的身体，实现新的目标。运动充实我的头脑，让我一整天都精神饱满。
Have you made any lifestyle changes to help increase your fitness level?
为了帮助提高健身水平，你在生活方式上有没有做过什么改变？
I’ve learned that there are so many easy ways to incorporate movement into your everyday life. Instead of taking an escalator, I’ll take the stairs. I try to walk instead of taking the subway or a cab. It’s all about staying in motion.
我发现，有很多简单的办法能把运动融入日常生活。我尽量走楼梯，不坐电梯。尽量走路，不坐地铁或出租车。关键是要动起来。
Do you favor protein shakes? Juice cleanses? Or just maintaining a healthy diet?
你喜欢喝蛋白质粉减肥吗？喜欢喝果汁清肠吗？还是只是保持健康饮食？
Healthy diet! It’s so important to nurture your body, especially when you’re exercising and moving constantly. Your body needs fuel to stay healthy and strong. Nothing can substitute for a balanced diet.
健康饮食！给你的身体提供营养很重要，特别是你经常锻炼和运动的话。你的身体需要食物来保持健康、强壮。什么都不能代替均衡的饮食。
Yoga or Pilates?
你更喜欢瑜伽还是普拉提？
I enjoy yoga, but I’m a huge Pilates fan. Pilates relies on isolated, controlled movement and has allowed me to build up my core and strengthen my legs and arms.
我喜欢瑜伽，但我超迷普拉提。普拉提靠的是独立、可控的运动，它能锻炼我的核心肌肉群，增强腿部和胳膊的力量。
When you’re not feeling your best, physically, what do you do to set yourself right again?
你感觉身体不适时会做什么来复原？
I’ve recently started meditating. I was a skeptic about the whole process at first but finally decided to try it and found it incredibly relaxing. Being able to center your mind translates to equalizing your body.
我最近开始冥思。起初我对整个过程持怀疑态度，但是最终决定试一试，发现它具有不可思议的放松作用。它能够集中你的精神，进而平衡你的身体。
What’s one exercise you can’t live without?
哪项锻炼你不可或缺？
Ballet! It’s how I grew up, exercising and moving. Though I’m a Pilates and Soul Cycle regular, dance and ballet will always be a huge part of my exercise routine and life.
芭蕾！我是跳着芭蕾长大的，不断地练习、运动。虽然我经常练习普拉提，是Soul Cycle健身房的常客，但是舞蹈和芭蕾将永远是我日常锻炼和生活的重要组成部分。
Are there any fitness goals you just can’t seem to reach — or do you have a special trick for reaching them?
有没有什么你似乎难以实现的健身目标？或者说为了实现这些目标你有没有什么特别的窍门？
One fitness and life goal I’ve yet to accomplish is running a marathon. It’s on my bucket list. It is such an amazing accomplishment for the body and mind. You need incredible determination!
我还没有实现的一项健身和人生目标是跑马拉松。它在我的清单上。它对身体和精神来说都是了不起的成就。你需要惊人的决心！
Beauty-wise, are there any products you keep on hand — or on your body — when you’re being active outdoors?
从美容角度讲，你在户外活动时，有没有什么产品是你随身携带的？
I always wash my face before and after a workout. It helps me avoid breakouts and keeps my skin fresh and clean.
我总会在锻炼之前和之后洗脸。它能帮助避免起皮疹，让我的皮肤清新、干净。