HANOI, Vietnam (AP) — Market forces are working against college degrees in Marx, Lenin and Ho Chi Minh in Vietnam, where the Communist government has resorted to offering free tuition to attract students.
越南河内（美联社）——市场力量正在给越南的大学里的马克思(Marx)、列宁(Lenin)和胡志明(Ho Chi Minh)专业产生消极影响，所以这里的共产主义政府采取了给这些专业免除学费的方法来吸引学生。
Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung signed a decree last month giving free tuition to students agreeing to take four-year courses on Marxism-Leninism and the thoughts of Ho Chi Minh, the country's revolutionary hero, at state-run universities.
总理阮晋勇(Nguyen Tan Dung)上月签署一条法令，给那些同意在国立大学学习四年马列主义和胡志明思想的学生免除学费，胡志明是越南革命的英雄。
Students have been shunning such degrees because employers are not interested in it, said Pham Tan Ha, head of admission and training at Ho Chi Minh City Social and Human Sciences University. Degrees in subjects like communications, tourism, international relations and English are more popular because students believe “they will have better chances of employment and better pay when they graduate,” he said.
胡志明市社会科学暨人文大学 (Ho Chi Minh City Social and Human Sciences University)招生培训部负责人范晋夏（Pham Tan Ha，音译）说，学生一直不愿意选这些专业，因为雇主对这些不感兴趣。他说，像传播学、旅游、国际关系和英语这些专业更受欢迎，因为学生们认为“他们毕业后有更好的就业机会、能得到更多的报酬。”
Students who study certain medical specialties such as tuberculosis and leprosy also will get a free ride under the decree. Ordinarily they would have to pay the equivalent of about $200 a year for tuition.
根据这项法令，学习某些医疗特长的学生也将被免除学费，比如肺结核和麻风病的治疗。通常情况下，学生每年要支付相当于200美元（约合1223元人民币）左右的学费。
Currently, all Vietnamese students must take at least three classes in Marxist-Leninism and Ho Chi Minh studies, but few go beyond that minimum requirement.
目前，越南所有的大学生都必须上至少三门马列主义和胡志明思想方面的课程，但很少有学生会超过这个最低要求。
Vietnam is run by a Communist regime but embraced free-market reforms in the 1980s. These days, the country's past is mostly apparent in its large and inefficient state-owned sector, a repressive state apparatus, the occasional Soviet-era statue or building and lingering alliances with other leftist countries.
越南由共产党政府统治，但在20世纪80年代开始进行信奉自由市场的改革。如今，越南的过去大多表现在以下方面：庞大且低效的国有部门、专制的国家机器、偶尔可见的苏联时代雕塑，或是与其他左翼国家建立或维持的同盟关系。
Getting a good job — rather than the nuances of a discredited political and economic ideology that runs counter to the capitalism coursing through the country's towns and cities — is the primary concern of most young Vietnamese and their families.
大多数越南年轻人及其家人最关心的是找到一份好工作，而不是那些声名扫地的政治和经济意识形态理论的吹毛求疵，那些意识形态与该国城镇里的资本主义潮流背道而驰。
More than 60 percent of the country's 90 million people are under 30, a demographic sweet spot that can lead to fast economic growth in developing countries. Competition for well-paying jobs on graduation is intense among the around 500, 000 graduates who enter the job market each year.
越南9000万人口中有60%以上的人不到30岁，这种人口结构上的优势可以给发展中国家带来经济的快速增长。每年约有50万毕业生进入就业市场，他们对待遇优厚工作的竞争十分激烈。
Many employers, among them multinationals looking to staff factories or service industries, complain about the quality of graduates that Vietnamese universities are producing. There are many private universities alongside the state-run system, but for those with money, studying overseas is considered the best option.
很多雇主抱怨越南大学培养的毕业生质量不高，这些雇主包括为工厂或者服务业招聘员工的跨国企业。除了国立大学系统，越南还有不少私立大学，但对于有钱人来说，出国留学是最好的选择。
Duong Van Quang, a second-year student at the Hanoi University of Pharmacy, said students wanting to join the government bureaucracy, especially in rural areas, were the most likely to take a degree in Marxist-Lenin philosophy. He felt it unfair that they should get a free education, regardless of the subject.
河内医药大学(Hanoi University of Pharmacy)二年级学生杨文光（Duong Van Quang，音译）说，最有可能选择马列主义哲学的学生是那些想去政府部门工作的人，尤其是去农村的政府部门。他认为，不管学什么专业，某些人能免学费是不公平的。
Others met over lunch hour in the capital, Hanoi, weren't enthused by the subjects either.
在首都河内吃午饭的时间碰到的其他一些人也都表示对这些学科没兴趣。
“Studying Marxism and Leninism is rather dry and many students don't like it,” said 23-year-old Tran The Anh, a fifth-year student. “The number of students studying these courses is very modest because many of them believe that it is difficult to find a job after graduation.”
五年级学生、23岁的陈世英（Tran The Anh，音译）说，“学习马克思主义、列宁主义很枯燥，很多学生都不喜欢。选择这些专业的学生人数有限，因为很多人认为毕业后很难就业。”
Phan Thi Trang, another pharmaceutical student, conceded that the subjects might be interesting if she studied them further. But she'd had enough of them for now.
另一名药学专业的学生潘氏庄（Phan Thi Trang，音译）承认，如果她能进一步研究这些学科的话，可能会有意思。但是她目前已经学够了。
“They are just not applicable to my daily life,” she said.
她说，“这些学科对我的日常生活来说没有用。”