HO CHI MINH CITY — Vietnamese people can find an aphorism by Ho Chi Minh for nearly any occasion. A favorite schoolyard banner has him saying: “For the sake of 10 years, we must plant trees; for the sake of 100 years, we should cultivate people.”
胡志明市——越南人几乎可以在任何场合都能找到胡志明(Ho Chi Minh)的格言。一个特别受人喜爱的校园标语引用的是他的这句话：“十年之计，莫如树木；百年之计，莫如树人。”
Now some cultivated people are wondering whether they have neglected the trees.
现在一些有建树的人在关心越南人是不是忽视了林木。
Cat Tien National Park, a hundred miles northeast of Ho Chi Minh City, is a protected forest with perhaps the most diverse ecosystem in Vietnam. Nominated for Unesco’s World Heritage status, it’s a habitat for vulnerable species, like the epiphytic orchid and the sun bear. But now there are plans by the Duc Long Gia Lai company to raze 400 hectares of Cat Tien to generate two hydropower dams.
距离胡志明市东北约100英里（约为160公里）的吉仙国家公园(Cat Tien National Park)是个森林保护区，这里可能是越南最多样化的生态系统。作为联合国世界遗产(Unesco’s World Heritage)的提名候选者，这里也是很多濒危物种的栖息地，比如附生植物的兰花和马来熊。但如今，德龙嘉莱(Duc Long Gia Lai)集团公司却计划要在吉仙占用400公顷的土地修建两座发电用的大坝。
More than 4,700 people have signed a Change.org petition urging the authorities to prevent construction. An open letter against the project has been sent to President Truong Tan Sang. Newspaper editorials and even the local authorities have come out opposing it.
已有4700多人在Change.org网站的一份请愿书上签名，要求当局阻止修建大坝。有人还给国家主席张晋创(Truong Tan Sang)寄了一封公开信。不仅报纸社论反对，甚至当地的地方政府也出来反对。
This may seem like a familiar story: Big industry threatens a natural resource; environmentalists protest; the government must decide between profits and preservation. But there’s a twist. Vietnamese people tend to complain about environmental issues only after they’ve been directly affected.
这似乎是个大家熟悉的故事：大工业威胁自然资源，环保人士抗议，政府必须在利益和保护之间作出抉择。越南人一般只是在自己受到直接影响后，才会对环境问题发出不满。但这次有所不同。
The battle for Cat Tien is a less pragmatic, more forward-looking movement: It’s about protecting biodiversity. And that new concern marks a shift in the nature of citizen activism.
保卫吉仙的战斗少了点实用主义，而更具有前瞻性：目的是保护生物多样性。这个新的焦点标志着公民行动性质的转变。
I asked Nguyen Huynh Thuat, who cofounded Saving Cat Tien, why Vietnamese should care about the park. After mentioning potential harm to the water supply, he struggled to provide concrete reasons. Thuat, a former government official who handled foreign researchers and donors involved with Cat Tien, wants people to care about biodiversity for biodiversity’s sake.
我曾问过“保护吉仙”(Saving Cat Tien)的联合创始人之一阮黄述（Nguyen Huynh Thuat，音译），为什么越南人应该关心这个公园。在提到对水源的潜在危害之后，他想不出其他具体的理由。阮黄述曾在政府任职，负责接待外国研究者以及与吉仙有关的捐款人，他想让人们为了生物多样性而保护生物多样性。
“Fail or not fail, it’s not important to me,” Thuat said of his bid to stop the dams from being built. “What matters to me is that people know about sustainable environment.”
阮黄述在提到自己争取阻止修建大坝的努力时说，“成败与否，对我来说不重要。我关心的是人们对可持续环境的认识。”
Thuat is trying to bring a belief in collective duty back to this nominally communist country. Vietnamese keep their homes impeccable but disregard public spaces, littering the streets and urinating in canals. A popular saying goes, “Cha chung khong ai khoc,” or, “No one cries for the common father.” In other words, no one looks after what belongs to everyone.
他试图将集体责任的信念带回这个名义上的共产主义国家。越南人将自己的家收拾得干干净净，但却无视公共场所，在道路上乱扔垃圾，在运河里撒尿。这里有一句口头禅：“没人为共同的父亲哭泣”(Cha chung khong ai khoc)。换句话说，没人关心属于大家的东西。
The situation has been improving. Bui Viet Ha, a social entrepreneur who was educated in Sweden and now promotes green causes at home, told me that Vietnamese, as they travel and study abroad, are being influenced by progressive countries. Ha also said that environmental awareness was a luxury when Vietnam was a poor country, but now that it is richer, “More and more people have a sense of responsibility for society, for the environment.” Vietnamese are slowly coming out to cry for the common father.
这种情况在逐渐改善。曾在瑞典留学的社会企业家裴越河（Bui Viet Ha，音译）现在正在越南提倡绿色事业，他告诉我，随着越南人去国外旅行或上学，他们正受到进步国家的影响。裴越河又说，当越南还是个穷国时，环保意识是一种奢侈品，但现在越南变得富裕些了，“越来越多的人对社会和环境有了责任感。”越南人正开始慢慢出来为共同的父亲哭泣。