BRUSSELS — The executives came from companies that own brands like Nike, Levi’s and Zara.
布鲁塞尔——拥有耐克(Nike)、李维斯(Levi’s)和飒拉(Zara)等品牌的公司的高管们都来了。
They gathered here last month in a hearing room operated by the European government, for a public briefing on the status of trade talks between Vietnam and the European Union, which began last year. One industry noticeably dominated the audience, from the 14 chairs reserved for the European Branded Clothing Alliance, a trade group for the likes of H&M and Ralph Lauren, to the leader of an alliance of textile makers seated a few rows behind them.
上个月，他们来到了这里，聚集在欧洲政府的一间会议室里，就越南与欧洲联盟去年开始的贸易谈判的状态进行公开听证。值得一提的是，会场中一个产业占据着主导地位，欧洲品牌成衣联盟(European Branded Clothing Alliance)预订了14个座位，这个行业组织中的成员包括H&M和拉夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)。几排座位之后，坐着一家纺织品制造商联盟的领导人物。
For clothing and shoe companies, the negotiations between Europe and Vietnam are being watched with especially close care. Part of the reason is Vietnam’s role as an assembly line for much of the apparel worn in the Western world. Another is that Vietnam’s population also recently topped 90 million. Because the number of young people in the country is rapidly increasing, it has become an attractive growth market for apparel makers.
对于服饰和制鞋企业来说，欧盟与越南之间的谈判受到了极为密切的关注。部分原因是，西方世界的人们穿着的成衣，很多都是在越南生产的。另一个原因是，越南的人口最近达到了9000万。由于年轻人在这个国家人口中所占的比例快速增长，对服装企业来说，它已经成为了一个很有吸引力的增长市场。
The most contentious issue, though, relates to a continuing push by the fashion industry to ease global “rules of origin.” Such rules establish where customs collectors consider a product is made. The standards are stricter in the United States than in Europe — indeed, the issue is also part of negotiations between the United States and Asia — but the fashion industry hopes that a change in rules in one jurisdiction could weigh on the larger negotiations among the giant trading blocs.
不过，争议最强烈的问题，却在于时尚产业不断推动放宽全球“原产地规则”的做法。海关收取关税时，会依靠这样的规则确定商品是在哪里制造的。美国的标准比欧洲更严格，因此，在美国与亚洲的谈判中，它也的确是相关议题的一部分。时尚产业希望，一个司法区域改变规则，可以对规模巨大的贸易集团之间举行的影响面更广的谈判产生作用。
For goods coming into the European Union from Vietnam, the rules of origin can add up to substantial sums of money.
对于从越南进入欧盟的商品，原产地规则可以让价格出现明显上涨。
Garments face a 12 percent tariff coming into the European Union, but only 9.6 percent if they are considered “Made in Vietnam.” (The European Union grants special preferential trade access to many developing countries, including Vietnam, as a way to aid those countries.) Sneakers and other athletic shoes face tariffs of 16.9 percent, or 13.4 percent if they are made in Vietnam.
进入欧盟的服装需要承担12%的关税，但如果服装被认为是“越南制造”的，那么关税就只有9.6%。（欧盟对包括越南在内的许多发展中国家给予了特别的优惠贸易待遇，以此作为对这些国家提供援助的一种手段。）跑鞋和其他运动鞋关税为16.9%，但如果产自越南，就只有13.4%。
Given the volume of trade, these differences can quickly mean millions of euros.
考虑到贸易额极大，这样的关税差距很快就能造成数百万欧元的差额。
But if clothes are made with fabrics imported from China or elsewhere, they are not considered “Made in Vietnam” and face the higher tariffs when they are imported into Europe. The importers, and Vietnam, would like relaxed tariffs.
但如果服装是用从中国或其他地方进口的织物制做的，那么这些服装就不会被认为是“越南制造”，出口到欧洲时就需要承担更高的关税。而进口商和越南都想要降低关税。
Apparel makers contend that modern trade policy should not penalize companies for making their products in more than one country. Europe’s domestic textile industry is opposed to relaxing the tariffs.
服装制造商争辩道，现代的贸易政策不应当对企业在不只一个国家制造产品的做法给予惩罚。欧洲本土的纺织行业则反对关税的降低。
Mauro Petriccione, the chief negotiator for the European Union, drew a hard line at the hearing. “We do have very firm views on what constitutes an originating product, and we’re not always consistent in our policies, but if there is one where we have been consistent, it is this one,” he said.
欧盟首席谈判代表毛罗·佩特修尼(Mauro Petriccione)在听证会上表达了强硬的立场。他说，“对于什么算是‘原产地产品’，我们有非常坚定的看法。尽管我们的政策并非总是那么一贯，但如果说有哪项政策我们必须一贯执行，那就是这项政策。”
Then he softened his position. “I think there will be ways to make rules of origin for textiles — which as I say, we are very likely to keep to a very firm position — more acceptable to Vietnam, more adaptable if you like with the reality of trade with Vietnam,” he added. “We are negotiating with Vietnam, however, not with China, and I think that has to be made clear.”
之后他软化了立场。“尽管就像我刚才说的，我们很可能会维持坚定的立场，但我想有办法让纺织品的原产地规则对越南更容易接受，或者说更适应对越南贸易的现实，”他又说。“不过，我们是在和越南谈判，不是中国，我想这一点必须阐明。”
For the Vietnamese government, easing the rules has the potential to lift its exports and its economy. Pham Sanh Chau, Vietnam’s ambassador to the European Union and its chief negotiator in the trade talks, said the discussions were of the “highest priority,” adding that the potential agreement “enjoys the personal attention and interest of my prime minister.”
对于越南政府，放松规则有可能提升该国出口，改善该国经济。越南驻欧盟大使及该国在贸易谈判中的首席代表范生朱(Pham Sanh Chau)表示，谈判具有最高的“优先级”，还说“我国总理本人十分关注并亲自过问了”可能达成的协议。
But many groups do not favor easing these rules. “We are not against trade, we want fair access,” said Francesco Marchi, director general of the European Apparel and Textile Confederation, which represents Europe’s domestic textile industry, during the hearing last month.
但很多团体并不主张放松这些规则。欧洲成衣及纺织品协会(European Apparel and Textile Confederation)会长弗朗西斯科·马什(Francesco Marchi)在上个月的听证会上说，“我们并不反对贸易，我们想要的是公平的准入。”
“For us, the rules of origins are key,” he said. “They should be linked to the condition of our tariff.”
“对我们来说，原产地规则是关键，”他说。“它必须要与我们的关税条款相联系。”
Europe generally requires what is known as a “double transformation” in goods for them to be considered made in a certain region. In the case of clothing, one step, or “transformation,” would be weaving yarn into a fabric. A second transformation would be assembling the fabric into a garment.
欧洲一般要求商品发生所谓的“二次转换”(double transformation)才能认为它产自某个特定的区域。就成衣而言，第一个步骤，即“转换”，是将纱线织成布；第二次转换则是将布料缝纫成衣物。
The United States requires a “triple transformation” that extends back to the production of yarn from synthetic or natural fibers, like cotton.
美国要求“三次转换”，又向前追溯了一步，延伸到了从合成纤维或天然纤维（如棉花）纺织为纱线的转换。
Relatively few factories in Vietnam use domestically made fabrics. Lien Phat Ltd.'s factory, in a sprawling industrial zone about 18 miles northeast of Ho Chi Minh City, is a common example. It occupies two large tin-roofed hangars and employs 1,000 workers on four production lines. The factory, tucked among other factories and low-income housing, produces mostly women’s shoes and counts Europe as its largest export market.
越南使用国产布料的工厂很少。莲发有限公司(Lien Phat Ltd)的工厂就是一个常见的例子。它位于胡志明市东北18英里处宽阔的工业区里，占据着两个铁皮屋顶的巨大机库，雇佣有1000名工人，有四条生产线。这家工厂被其他工厂和低收入阶层的住房挤在中间，主要生产女鞋，将欧洲视为最大的出口市场。
Its supplies are imported. “I mainly take orders from international corporations, who give us materials and designs,” said Truong Thi Thuy Lien, the owner of Lien Phat. “Usually the clients will designate us to certain suppliers, most of them are in China.”
原料是进口来的。“我主要从跨国公司手里拿订单，它们会给我们材料和设计，”莲发公司的老板张氏翠莲(Truong Thi Thuy Lien)说。“客户通常都会指定让我们用一些特定的供应商，这些供应商多数都在中国。”
Ms. Lien said the issue of “point of origin” was an important one, but perhaps more so for the corporations that contracted work to her factory.
张氏翠莲说，“原产地”的问题很重要，但或许对那些把业务外包给这家工厂的大公司更加重要。
“I don’t deal with the exporting process. I take the order and deliver the goods to the port” in Ho Chi Minh City, she said. “The rest lies with my clients.”
她说，“我不插手出口的程序，我只管接到订单后交货”，货物会运到胡志明市的港口。“别的都由客户处理。”