Women are not only more likely to be the primary caregivers in a family. Increasingly, they are primary breadwinners, too.
女性不仅更有可能成为家庭的主要照料者。也有越来越多的女性正在成为家中的主要经济支柱。
Four in 10 American households with children under age 18 now include a mother who is either the sole or primary earner for her family, according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census and polling data released Wednesday. This share, the highest on record, has quadrupled since 1960.
根据皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)周三（2013年5月29日，本文最初发表于5月30日。——编注）公布的人口普查及调查数据分析，在子女不满18岁的美国家庭中，母亲是家中唯一或主要经济来源的占40%。这一比例自1960年以来已经翻了两番，为历史最高。
The shift reflects evolving family dynamics.
这种转变体现了不断演变的家庭发展态势。
For one, it has become more acceptable and expected for married women to join the work force. It is also more common for single women to raise children on their own. Most of the mothers who are chief breadwinners for their families — nearly two-thirds — are single parents.
例如，社会更加接受和期待已婚女性参加工作。单身女性自己抚养孩子的情况也更加普遍。在成为家庭主要经济来源的母亲当中，大部分——将近三分之二——是单身母亲。
The recession may have played a role in pushing women into primary earning roles, as men are disproportionately employed in industries like construction and manufacturing that bore the brunt of the layoffs during the downturn. Women, though, have benefited from a smaller share of the job gains during the recovery; the public sector, which employs a large number of women, is still laying off workers.
经济衰退可能在将女性推向主要经济来源的角色中发挥了作用，由于建筑及制造等行业雇佣的男性人数远大于女性，而这些行业在经济衰退中裁员的人数最多。然而，女性在经济复苏就业增加时所分享的益处也较小：雇佣女性人数众多的公共部门仍然在裁员。
Women’s attitudes toward working have also changed. In 2007, before the recession officially began, 20 percent of mothers told Pew that their ideal situation would be to work full time rather than part time or not at all. The share had risen to 32 percent by the end of 2012.
女性对工作的态度也发生了变化。2007年，在衰退正式开始之前，20%的母亲告诉皮尤，她们理想的状态是拥有全职工作，而不是做兼职，或者根本不工作。到2012年底，这个比例上升至32%。
The public is still divided about whether it is a good thing for mothers to work. About half of Americans say that children are better off if their mother is at home and doesn’t have a job. Just 8 percent say the same about a father. Even so, most Americans acknowledge that the increasing number of working women makes it easier for families “to earn enough to live comfortably.”
对于母亲们参加工作是好是坏，公众的看法仍有分歧。大约有一半的美国人表示，如果母亲待在家中不工作，孩子的情况会更好。只有8%的人认为父亲没有工作时，孩子的情况会更好。即便如此，大部分美国人承认，职业女性越来越多，家庭会更容易“赚足够的钱，过上舒适的生活”。
Demographically and socioeconomically, single mothers and married mothers differ, according to the Census Bureau’s 2011 American Community Survey. The median family income for single mothers — who are more likely to be younger, black or Hispanic, and less educated — is $23,000. The median household income for married women who earn more than their husbands — more often white, slightly older and college educated — is $80,000. When the wife is the primary breadwinner, the total family income is generally higher.
人口普查局(Census Bureau)2011年美国社区调查(2011 American Community Survey)显示，从人口统计学和社会经济学来看，单身母亲和已婚母亲有所不同。单身母亲——很可能是年纪较轻、黑人或者西语裔，受教育程度低——的家庭收入的中位数为2.3万美元（约合14.1万元人民币）。那些收入高过丈夫的已婚女性——更多是白人、年龄稍长，受过大学教育——的家庭收入中位数为8万美元。当妻子是主要经济支柱时，家庭总收入通常会高一些。
Such marriages are still relatively rare, even if their share is growing. Of all married couples, 24 percent include a wife who earns more, versus 6 percent in 1960. (The percentages are similar for married couples who have children.)
这样的婚姻仍然比较少见，尽管比例有所增加。在所有已婚夫妇中，24%的妻子收入较高，而在1960年，这个比例是6%。（在育有子女的已婚夫妇中，差不多也是这个比例。）
The implications for the stability of marriages is unclear. In surveys, Americans usually indicate that they accept marriages where the wife is the greater earner. Just 28 percent of Americans surveyed by Pew agreed that it is “generally better for a marriage if the husband earns more than his wife.”
还不清楚这种情况对婚姻稳定的影响。在调查当中，美国人通常表示，他们接受妻子收入较高的婚姻。只有28%接受皮尤调查的美国人认为，“丈夫比妻子收入高通常会对婚姻更有益。”
But the data on actual marriage and divorce rates suggests slightly different attitudes.
但结婚率与离婚率的实际数据则指出了一些略有不同的态度。
A recent working paper by economists at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and the National University of Singapore found that, in looking at the distribution of married couples by income of husband versus wife, there is a sharp drop-off in the number of couples in which the wife earns more than half of the household income. This suggests that the random woman and random man are much less likely to pair off if her income exceeds his, the paper says.
最近，来自芝加哥大学布斯商学院(University of Chicago Booth School of Business)及新加坡国立大学(National University of Singapore)经济学家的一份尚未完成的报告指出，按照丈夫与妻子的收入比例来分类，就会发现妻子收入超过家庭总收入一半的夫妇大幅减少。报告称，这说明如果女性收入超过男性，他们结合的几率就会比较小。
The economists also found that wives with a better education and stronger earning potential than their husbands are less likely to work. In other words, women are more likely to stay out of the work force if there is a big risk that they will make more than their husbands.
经济学家还发现，受教育程度及收入潜力高过丈夫的妻子不太可能会工作。换句话说，如果女性很有可能超过丈夫的收入，那么她们更可能会远离职场。
Perhaps even more tellingly, couples in which the wife earns more report less satisfaction with their marriage and higher rates of divorce. When the wife brings in more money, couples often revert to more stereotypical sex roles; in such cases, wives typically take on a larger share of household work and child care.
或许更能说明问题的是，妻子收入高过丈夫的夫妇对婚姻的满意度较低，离婚率较高。当妻子带来更多收入时，夫妇通常会回归更为传统的性别角色。在这种情况下，妻子通常承担更多家务及照料孩子的工作。
“Our analysis of the time use data suggests that gender identity considerations may lead a woman who seems threatening to her husband because she earns more than he does to engage in a larger share of home production activities, particularly household chores,” the authors write.
报告作者写道：“我们对投入时间的相关数据的分析表明，对于一个因为收入高过丈夫而看起来对丈夫造成威胁的女性来说，对性别认同的考虑可能会导致她承担更多的家庭生产活动，特别是家务事。”
Of course, these patterns may change as the job market evolves. College degrees, for example, are becoming increasingly important to both finding and keeping a job. And women are more likely than men to get college degrees.
当然，随着就业市场的发展，这些模式可能会有所变化。例如，对于找工作和保住一份工作来说，大学文凭都变得越来越重要。而与男性相比，女性更有可能取得大学文凭。
As of 2011, there were more married-couple families with children in which the wife was more educated than the husband, according to Pew. In roughly 23 percent of married couples with children, the women had more education; in 17 percent of the couples, the men had higher education. The remaining 61 percent of two-parent families involve spouses with about equal levels of education.
根据皮尤的调查，截止2011年，有更多已婚育有子女的家庭，其妻子受教育程度高于丈夫。在育有子女的已婚夫妇中，女性受教育程度较高的约占23%，男性受教育程度较高的占17%。在剩下的61%双亲家庭中，配偶的教育水平大致相同。