It was Saturday night at the giant Aviator Sports complex at Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn, and 20,000 millennials dressed in T-shirts, shorts and glow-in-the-dark necklaces were dancing to electronic music. D.J.’s kept the tempo upbeat, while dancers on stage threw confetti and beach balls into the beer-fueled and sweaty crowd.
星期六晚上，在布鲁克林的弗洛伊德·班尼特机场巨大的飞行员体育中心建筑内，两万名千禧一代身穿T恤短裤，脖子上戴着夜光项链，跟随电子音乐起舞。DJ一直放着欢快的音乐，台上的领舞者们向台下喝着啤酒、大汗淋漓的人群抛撒五彩纸屑和充气球。
This wasn’t a flash mob or a warehouse rave, but the finish line for a five-kilometer run combining jogging with partying. Called the Night Nation Run, it is among a new class of races that appeal to all non-runners who want to stay fit in a festive, silly and noncompetitive environment.
这不是一次快闪活动或是仓库锐舞派对，而是一场五公里跑步活动的终点，它把慢跑和派对结合起来，名为“夜国跑步”(Night Nation Run)。这是一种全新的体育活动，对那些从来没跑过步，但又希望在一种欢快、搞笑、非竞争性的氛围下锻炼身体的人群特别有吸引力。
The races are popular among 20- and 30-somethings, offering them not just great Instagram moments to share with friends, but an opportunity to flirt and socialize outside of bars and hookup apps.
这项活动在二三十岁的人群中特别受欢迎，不仅为他们提供机会，拍下供他们在Instagram上同朋友分享的照片，也让他们可以在酒吧和约会应用之外的地方调情与社交。
”It’s supposed to be a party more than a run, so it’s a perfect mix,” Cilia Kutzer, 22, an au pair living in South Orange, N.J., said during the Night Nation Run in May.
“它更像派对，不像跑步，是二者的完美结合，”5月的一次“夜国跑步”活动上，22岁的西莉亚·库泽尔(Cilia Kutzer)说，她住在新泽西州的南奥伦治，靠帮工做家事换取食宿。
One of the pioneers of a 5K that was actually a party was Travis Snyder, 37, a fitness entrepreneur. He got the idea for such races from a nighttime show at the Disney California Adventure park, where visitors are dazzled by colorful fog, mist, lights, fire and lasers. Though he was living in Salt Lake City at the time, he chose the Phoenix area for the first Color Run, in 2012, because he thought it would be a good place for a messy 5K fun run where participants would be showered with colored powder.
健身业营业者，37岁的特拉维斯·斯奈德(Travis Snyder)是这种“五公里等于一场派对”活动的倡导者之一。一天晚上，他去参加加利福尼亚迪斯尼探险公园的活动，看到参观者们被五彩缤纷的烟雾、水汽、灯光、焰火和射灯弄得眼花缭乱，于是就有了跑步派对的主意。他当时住在盐湖城，但2012年却选择了菲尼克斯一带，开始举行自己的“彩色跑”(Color Run)活动。他觉得这里才是举行一场乱哄哄的五公里跑步的好地方，活动里，参加者们可以沐浴在五颜六色的粉末之中。
He went there to plan and market the event, distributing fliers and talking to students on the Arizona State University campus in Tempe. They told their friends, and soon 6,000 had signed up. “It was the first time I knew we had something,” Mr. Snyder said. “There was this whole dormant part of the population that wanted to go and do stuff but felt threatened.”
他来到菲尼克斯筹划这场活动，做市场推广，分发传单，到坦佩市的亚利桑那州立大学和学生们聊天，他们又转告自己的朋友，很快就有6000人报名参加。“这是我第一次知道，我们能成气候，”斯奈德说。“有很大的潜在人群希望出门做点什么，但又不太敢。”
Since then, Mr. Snyder, who lives in Hermosa Beach, Calif., has organized about 250 runs worldwide, including in Paris, where last April 25,000 people ran along the Seine and finished at the Eiffel Tower. “People find a lot of value in coming together and doing something memorable and fun and health-based,” he said.
斯奈德现居加利福尼亚的赫莫萨海滩，从那以后，他在全世界举办了大约250场跑步活动，4月份在巴黎的活动有2.5万人参加，他们沿着塞纳河跑步，终点是埃菲尔铁塔。“人们发现，聚在一起做点难忘、有趣又对健康有好处的事情，这是非常有价值的，”他说。
In addition to the Color Run, Mr. Snyder also operates the Electric Run, where participants don costumes like furry bear suits and run with laser-light shows above their heads while giving one another high-fives and hugs.
除了“彩色跑”，斯奈德还组织了“电子跑”，参加者可以穿戏服，比如绒毛熊的衣服，跑步时头顶打着激光，大家互相击掌、拥抱。
The runs have also become a business, with runners paying $50 to participate. Mr. Snyder’s company, the Color Run, has offices in Los Angeles and Salt Lake City with 70 full-time employees. Mr. Snyder added that 60 percent of participants in the Color Run have never run a 5K race before, “so the idea that three million people globally went out and ran a 5K for their first time is pretty awesome to me,” he said.
这种跑步也成了一项生意，参加者要交50美元。施耐德的公司“彩色跑”在洛杉矶和盐湖城都设有办公室，拥有70名全职职员。施耐德补充说，“彩色跑”的参加者当中，60%的人之前都从来没有跑过五公里，“所以让全世界的300万人走出家门，跑人生的第一个五公里，这个主意对我来说真是太棒了，”他说。
Matt Britton, the author of the book “YouthNation” and founder of the millennial marketing firm MRY in New York, said that these runs are tailor-made for 20-somethings looking for photogenic experiences to share on social media. “If experiences can’t be talked about, it’s hard to break through to this generation,” he said. “Experiences build people’s persona. Sharing it is equally as important as the experience itself.”
《青年之国》(YouthNation)一书作者与纽约千禧一代市场公司MRY创始人马特·布里顿(Matt Britton)说，这种跑步活动简直是为20多岁，热衷寻找能在社交媒体上分享的拍照机会的年轻人量身定制的。“如果你提供的体验不足以成为谈资，就很难打动这一代人，”他说。“体验营造出人们的个性，分享它和体验本身同等重要。”
The Night Nation Run, for example, has stations along the route where participants can stop and take photos in their glow-in-the-dark outfits.
比如说，“夜国跑步”在路线途中设有站点，参加者们可以停下来，给他们身上的夜光服拍照。
Exercise often is beside the point. At a Color Run this year at Citi Field in Queens, few participants actually ran. Most walked the 5K length, stopping frequently to give one another bear hugs, take selfies and roll around in colored powder.
在这样的活动中，锻炼通常无关宏旨。今年在皇后区花旗球场举行的“彩色跑”活动中，几乎没有什么参加者真的跑步。大多数人只是走了五公里，经常停下来互相拥抱，自拍，在彩色粉末中打滚。
Among them was Beatrice Andre, a 34-year-old M.R.I. technician from New York, who said she has participated in several races. “I don’t like to exert that much energy if I don’t have to,” she said. “If we were doing a regular marathon, I would get discouraged after awhile. Here you have a distraction every couple of minutes.”
34岁、现居纽约的核磁共振技师比亚特丽斯·安德鲁(Beatrice Andre)也是他们当中的一员，她说自己参加过几次这种活动。“如果我没那么多的能量，我就不想费那么大的力气，”她说。“如果我们要跑马拉松，我肯定跑一会儿就灰心了。在这个活动里，每过几分钟就会发生点有意思的分心事。”