It's a topic of endless debate among runners. Is there a best way to run, so that you use the least energy and go the fastest? And does it help to run barefoot or in minimalist shoes?
跑者当中有一个永不休止的辩论题目：跑步是否有一个最佳方法，可以用最少的能量跑最远的距离？赤足或极简跑鞋(minimalist shoes)是否对跑步有帮助？
Most of the scientific research is just inadequate to answer these questions, said Iain Hunter, a biomechanics researcher at Brigham Young University. Some studies have indicated that the fastest middle-distance runners - those racing between about half a mile and a mile - land on the midfoot or forefoot. But for these runners, economy - using the least amount of energy - is not an issue, because the race is so short.
杨百翰大学(Brigham Young University)的生物力学研究员伊恩·亨特(Iain Hunter)说，大多数科学研究不足以回答这些问题。一些研究已经表明最快的中距离跑者——赛程在半英里到一英里间——用前掌或中桥着地。但是这些跑者不会考虑如何跑步才多快好省——是否使用最少的能量——因为距离太短了。
When people sprint or run very fast for short distances, they naturally change stride, landing more toward the front of the foot. But that does not mean running that way is better for longer distances.
当人们在短距离快跑或冲刺时，他们自然地改变步幅，更多地用脚掌前侧落地，但这种方法对更长距离的跑步未必就好。
Last spring, Dr. Hunter saw an opportunity to get some data on elite distance runners and to determine if there is a particular style they favor. Do they hit the ground with the heel, midfoot or forefoot?
去年春天，亨特博士有机会在优秀长跑运动员中收集数据，确定是否存在他们喜欢的特定跑步方式。他们是用脚跟、中桥还是前掌落地？
Because he works with USA Track & Field, Dr. Hunter was able to get onto the field during the 10,000-meter Olympic trials. He photographed the runners' feet with a camera that records 240 images a second. These were the fastest long-distance runners in the nation; if there is a secret to their success, he hoped the camera might show it.
通过与美国田径联合会合作，亨特博士来到了1万米长跑奥运选拔赛的场地上。他使用一台 240帧/秒的相机拍摄跑者的脚部。那些是美国跑得最快的长跑运动员，如果他们的成功能有什么秘诀，他希望能通过相机来提示。
The results, for both the male and female athletes, were all over the place. Some landed heel first. Some landed on the midfoot. A few landed on the forefoot. Some twisted their feet inward as they struck the ground, while others kept their feet straight.
结果，无论运动员是男是女，他们落地的部位各式各样。一些人脚跟先着地，一些是中桥，少数人是前掌。一些人在落地时脚会稍稍偏内八字，另一些则是伸直的。
"None of these things were connected with performance, nor with running economy," Dr. Hunter said. That is good news in a way, because studies have repeatedly shown that when people try to change their natural running style, they tend to use more energy to cover the same distance.
“这些表现都与成绩或运动经济学无关。” 亨特博士说。从某一方面来说这是个好消息，因为研究反复表明，一旦人们试图改变自己原本的跑步方式，他们在完成相同距离时会消耗更多能量。
Another biomechanics researcher, Rodger Kram of the University of Colorado, recently tackled the second question bedeviling runners. What about barefoot running or running in minimalist shoes?
另一位生物力学家、美国科罗拉多州大学(University of Colorado)的罗杰·克拉姆(Rodger Kram)，最近攻克了困扰跑者的第二个问题。赤足或极简跑鞋怎么样？
Most recreational runners strike the ground with the heel first - even many who think they are midfoot strikers. But heel striking is just too uncomfortable when people run barefoot, so they change from heel strike to midfoot strike.
大多数非专业的跑者脚跟先着地——但很多人以为自己是中桥着地。但赤足跑步的时候，脚跟着地太不舒服了，所以他们从脚跟改为中桥着地了。
Proponents say barefoot running is more natural - humans evolved to run without shoes - and economical. When you lift a shod foot, you have to lift the weight of the shoe, and that requires energy. Added to that effort is the cushioning in shoes, which absorbs energy that should go into propelling you forward.
支持者认为赤足跑步更为自然——人类进化时原本就是不穿鞋跑步的——也更经济。但你穿着鞋抬起脚，你不得不抬起鞋的重量，而这需要消耗能量。鞋里的气垫对此雪上加霜，它吸收了原本可以推动你前进的能量。
If you must wear shoes, the argument goes, the next best thing to barefoot running is to strike the ground with the midfoot and not the heel.
如果你非要穿鞋，争论就演变成，仅次于赤足跑步的是用中桥着地而不是脚跟。
But the argument that midfoot or forefoot running is most efficient for nonelite runners has not held up, Dr. Kram said. "Those who extol it overlook three studies showing it is not more efficient," he said. Those studies showed striking midfoot or forefoot was no better and no worse than heel striking.
但是，对普通跑者来说中桥或前掌跑步哪个最有效是经不起推敲的，克拉姆博士说，“赞美者们忽视了三个显示无效的研究。”这些研究表明，与脚跟着地相比，中桥或前掌着地并无优劣之分。
And now Dr. Hunter's study has found that the very fastest distance runners are often heel strikers.
而现在，亨特博士的研究发现，那些最快的长跑运动员常常是脚跟着地的。
That still leaves questions about the importance of the weight of a runner's shoes and their cushioning. In a study published this year, Dr. Kram and his students found that runners who wore very lightweight shoes were more efficient than those who ran barefoot. (The barefoot runners wore weights on their feet to mimic the weight of the shoes, so that this would not be a factor in the results.)
这依然给跑鞋和气垫重量的重要性带来疑问。在今年发表的一项研究中，克拉姆博士和他的学生发现，穿极轻跑鞋的跑者比赤足的跑者效率高。（赤足跑者在足部配重，以模拟鞋的重量，使之不会成为影响结果的因素。）
Runners wearing shoes used 3 to 4 percent less energy to go the same speed and distance as those running barefoot with weights on their feet. Dr. Kram wondered why - could it be the effect of the cushioning? The challenge was to separate the effect of cushioning from every other factor.
与配重的赤足跑者相比，穿鞋的跑者以同样的速度完成同样的距离，消耗的能量少了3%~4%。克拉姆博士质疑了原因——这是气垫的效果吗？下一步的挑战是把气垫的效果与其他因素分离开。
Dr. Kram figured out a way. In his next experiment, there was only one variable: the amount of cushioning for runners' feet. All of his study subjects ran the same way, striking the ground with the midfoot. And all were experienced barefoot runners, which was important because none wore shoes for the study, to eliminate the issue of the weight of the shoe.
克拉姆博士想出了一个办法。在他接下来的实验中，只有一个变量：跑者双脚所受缓冲的量。所有的受试者跑相同的路，中桥着地。他们都是有经验的赤足跑者，这很重要，他们在研究中都不穿鞋，以此来消除跑鞋重量的影响。
The subjects ran on three different surfaces while Dr. Kram and his associates measured how much energy their effort required: an old-fashioned treadmill that, unlike the modern squishy ones, had a rigid surface; the same treadmill covered with cushioning material about 10 millimeters -thick (about 3/8 inch), exactly like that used in shoes; and then covered with 20-millimeter-thick shoe-cushioning material.
受试者在三种不同平面上跑步，克拉姆博士和他的同事测量他们所消耗的能量：老式跑步机，与现代松软的传送带不同，表面很坚硬；同一跑步机，铺上约1厘米厚的缓冲材料，与跑鞋中使用的气垫一样厚；同一跑步机，铺上2厘米厚的跑鞋缓冲材料。
It turned out that 10 millimeters of cushioning was best: The average subject used about 2 percent less energy to run at the same speed for the same distance with that cushioning, compared with running with no cushioning. There was a metabolic cost to running barefoot, and there was a cost to having too much cushioning.
结果显示：1厘米厚的缓冲是最好的：与无缓冲相比，受试者用同样速度跑完同样距离，在这一缓冲上平均少消耗2%能量。赤足跑步有代谢成本，而缓冲过多也要付出成本。
Ten millimeters of cushioning is about the amount in many lightweight running shoes, Dr. Kram said.
克拉姆博士说，1厘米的缓冲与许多轻量跑鞋差不多。
He wants to try the experiment with heel strikers. But for now, he said, the message is clear. There is no best way to run for longer distances. And although many people think that lighter shoes are better and that it's best to have no shoes at all, he said, "without cushioning it is not better."
他也想在脚跟着地的跑者中进行实验。但是他说，目前信息很明确：长跑没有最佳方案。很多人认为较轻的跑鞋更好，最好则是不穿鞋，而他说：“没有缓冲不太好。”