Question:
提问：
How many weekly miles should I run to improve my health?
想要改善健康，每周跑多少公里合适？
Answer:
回答：
Surprisingly few, it seems. According to a new review of studies related to running and health, jogging for as few as five or six miles per week could substantially improve someone’s health.
似乎要求不多，意想不到吧。据一项跑步与健康研究评论显示，每周只要慢跑5到6公里，便能显著提高身体健康。
The reviewers found that even with such skimpy mileage, runners generally weighed less and had a lower risk of obesity than people who jogged fewer than five miles per week or (more commonly) not at all. These runners also were less likely to experience high blood pressure, cholesterol problems, diabetes, strokes, certain cancers and arthritis than the barely- or nonrunners.
研究人员发现，尽管只有这么点里程，但是跑步者的体重普遍比那些跑的少或者根本不跑（更常见）的人低，而且有较低的肥胖风险。不仅如此，跑步者更不易患上高血压，高胆固醇，糖尿病，中风，癌症，关节炎等疾病。
“It seems like the maximum benefits of running occur at quite low doses,” said Dr. Carl J. Lavie, medical director of cardiac rehabilitation and prevention at the Ochsner Medical Center in New Orleans and lead author of the review, which was published in September in Mayo Clinic Proceedings.
“如果把跑步比作药剂，那么只要小小一剂，就能发挥最大的疗效，”新奥尔良奥克斯纳医疗中心(Ochsner Medical Center)心脏康复与预防科主任，同时也是该评论的作者之一，卡尔·J·李维博士说道。该评论9月份发表在《马友医学杂志》(Mayo Clinic Proceedings)。
As little as “one to two runs per week, or three to six miles per week, and well less than an hour per week” can be quite beneficial, he said.
他表示，“每周一到两次，或三到六公里，不用超过一个小时”这样就够了。
Running a few additional miles each week could be worthwhile if you were worried about middle-aged spread, he said, because additional mileage is generally associated with better weight control, “and allows one to eat more calories.”
如果你担心中年发福，每周多跑几公里也是可以的，他说，多跑的那几公里可以帮助控制体重，“这样的话可以多吃些”。
Someone hoping to become a better, faster runner also would need to run more than five or six miles a week, he said.
如果想要跑的更好，更快，那么每周多跑5到6公里也是有必要的，他说。
However, there may be an upper limit to the desirable mileage if your primary goal is improved health. Some evidence, he said, suggested that running strenuously for more than about an hour every day could slightly increase someone’s risks for heart problems, as well as for running-related injuries and disabilities.
不过，如果你的目标只是提高身体健康，那么所需要的里程有上限。一些证据表明，他说，身体感觉吃力的情况下，每天跑步一个小时，可能因运动过度引发受伤和失能，还可能小幅度增加患心脏病的风险。
Over all, Dr. Lavie says, the best advice based on the latest science is that for most of us, “running for 20 to 30 minutes, or about a mile-and-a-half to three miles, twice per week would appear to be perfect.”
总之，李维博士说，根据最新的科学研究，我们大部分人，只要每周两次，每次20到30分钟，或者1.5-3公里，这样应该就完美了。