WASHINGTON — On Sept. 18, 1986, more than two years before the end of Ronald Reagan’s presidency, the columnist George F. Will, one of Reagan’s earliest and strongest supporters, pronounced the Reagan administration dead. “When an administration collapses, quickly and completely,” Mr. Will wrote, “a reasonable surmise is that the administration, like a balloon, had nothing in it but air.”
华盛顿——1986年9月18日，罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的总统任期还剩两年多时间，他最早、最热烈的支持者之一乔治·威尔(George F. Will)却在专栏中宣称，里根政府已经完蛋了。“当政府迅速而彻底地崩塌的时候，”威尔写道，“合理的推测是，这个政府就像气球一样，内里除了空气一无所有。”
Mr. Will was venting about a controversy now long forgotten — Reagan had worked out a complex swap that allowed an American correspondent detained by the Soviets to come home. But his column was merely the start of a barrage of conservative attacks on Reagan in his final years in the White House, and a concurrent series of articles proclaiming the Reagan administration to be essentially over.
让他如此抱怨的，是一桩如今早被忘却的争议事件——里根促成了一项复杂的人质交换协议，从而让遭苏联扣押的一名美国记者回国。然而，威尔的专栏只是打响了第一枪，自此保守派猛烈抨击执政后期的里根，同时伴随着一系列文章宣布里根政府基本没戏唱了。
President Obama confronts a similar situation this fall, at the same stage of his own presidency. Amid broad dissatisfaction, many commentators have declared his administration a spent force. (“He seems to have taken something like an early retirement,” Ed Rogers wrote for The Washington Post, describing the “post-Obama presidency.”)
今年秋季，奥巴马总统来到了总统任期的同一阶段，身陷类似境地。在普遍的不满情绪下，许多评论人士宣称，奥巴马政府已是强弩之末。（“他似乎有点像是提前退休了，”埃德·罗杰斯[Ed Rogers]在《华盛顿邮报》[The Washington Post]上形容“后奥巴马任期”的时候写道。）
Most of these end-of-Obama sentiments are sincerely felt, and there are plenty of Obama-specific reasons for making these judgments.
多数这种“奥巴马已成为过去”的情绪相当真切，也有不少只能怪到奥巴马头上的理由来支撑此类判断。
Yet they all lack historical perspective. In fact, the notion that the Obama presidency is all but over has arrived right on schedule for any second-term president. By this stage of their presidencies, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, like Reagan before them, were all being written off as finished, not least of all by those who had been their strongest supporters.
然而，它们均缺乏历史维度。实际上，“奥巴马任期几近终结”的概念浮现的时间点，与任何第二任期的总统别无二致。总统当到这一阶段，比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)和乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)都被写成完蛋了，与前辈里根一样，而且这种声音还尤其来自那些曾经最热情支持他们的人。
However, history also demonstrates a larger truth that the commentators ignore today. Quite a few of the most significant achievements of the Reagan, Clinton and Bush presidencies took place in their final two years. The public may pay ever less attention in the final years, and the president’s perceived power may be on the wane. Yet he still possesses the same great constitutional authority.
不过，历史映照出了一个当下的评论人士忽略了的更大事实。里根、克林顿和布什任期里最重大的成就中，有不少发生在执政的最后两年。到了这个时候，公众的关注或许越来越弱，外界看来总统的权力大约也在衰减。可是，宪法赋予总统的巨大权威其实一如既往。
Reagan’s most significant diplomacy with Mikhail S. Gorbachev, which contributed to the end of the Cold War, took place in his final two years. In Mr. Clinton’s final two years, he paved the way for China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, cementing the international economic order we have today, and began military action in Kosovo without obtaining approval by the United Nations Security Council, thus setting a precedent for similar American military actions since. Mr. Bush’s last two years saw the “surge” of American troops into Iraq, altering the course of the war there; the largest financial bailout in the nation’s history; and the signing of the agreement with Iraq to remove American forces at the end of 2011.
里根与米哈伊尔·S·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)进行的最关键的外交活动，就发生在他执政的最后两年，而此举推动了冷战的终结。在克林顿掌权的最后两年里，他为中国加入世界贸易组织(World Trade Organization)开辟了道路，塑造了今天的世界经济秩序；他还在没有联合国安理会批准的前提下开启了在科索沃的军事行动，从而为美国的类似军事行动创下了先例。布什任期的最后两年里，美军在伊拉克“增兵”，彻底改变了当地的战争格局；他进行了美国历史上规模最大的金融救援行动；他还与伊拉克签署了协议，保障美军在2011年底撤出该国。
Mr. Obama’s presidency likewise has a long way to go: in the new war with the Islamic State, on a nuclear deal with Iran, on new trade agreements, on a new immigration policy, and in areas we can’t even imagine yet. So how can we explain the premature doomsaying?
同样的，奥巴马的任期还有很长的路要走：打击伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的新战争、与伊朗的核协议、新贸易协定、新移民政策，以及我们目前想都没想到的一些领域。那么，该如何解释这早早到来的末日预言呢？
If there is such a thing as a national psychology, then we might call this a kind of collective projection. We claim that a president is tired or looks tired, when what we really mean is that we are tired of him. (In fact, second-term presidents may be less tired than their graying hair and wrinkled faces suggest. They often play more golf than they did in their first terms.) By his sixth year in office, any president is ridiculously overexposed. We’ve seen him and heard him far too many times.
如果说有国民心理这回事的话，我们就可以将之称为某种集体投射。我们声称总统累了，或是看上去很疲惫，其实真正的意思是我们厌倦他了。（实际上，第二任期的总统虽渐生华发与皱纹，但或许并没有那么疲劳。他们往往比第一个任期的时候更多地去打打高尔夫球。）到了执政第六年，任谁当总统都曝光过度到不可思议的地步。我们看到他、听到他的声音的次数，实在是太多太多了。
During his early years, a president naturally enjoys the hopes of his supporters; they suppress any disappointments they feel in the interests of winning the White House again. While in a second term, even his strongest supporters feel freer to express their disenchantment. For their part, meanwhile, second-term presidents care less about approval and more about outcomes. They still need public support, but only in a more instrumental way — for example, to help them obtain legislation from Congress. A president becomes more willing to defy public opinion or his political base, as Reagan did in his negotiations with Gorbachev.
上台伊始，总统自然承载着支持者的希望。为了再次赢得白宫，支持者们会压制内心的任何失望情绪。不过，到了后一个任期，就连最坚定的支持者也觉得可以更自由地表达不满之情了。与此同时，第二任期的总统本身也不那么在意支持率了，而是更看重结果。虽说总统还是需要公众的支持，但只是把它当做一种工具，比如帮助自己让国会通过立法。总统会更愿意忤逆民意或冒犯基础选民，就像里根与戈尔巴乔夫谈判时那样。
Over the past few months, some commentators have reacted to the perceived decline in the Obama presidency by calling for changes in the system. Lawrence H. Summers, who was a Treasury secretary under Mr. Clinton and an economic adviser to Mr. Obama, recently floated the possibility of a single six-year presidential term. But even he acknowledged that a single term would mean that the president would be a lame duck from the minute he took office.
过去几个月里，面对看似日薄西山的奥巴马任期，有些评论人士呼吁改革体制。曾是克林顿政府的财政部长、并给奥巴马担任过经济顾问的劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)最近提出，是否可以将总统任期改成六年，不得连任。不过，就连他自己也承认，不能连任就会意味着，总统一上台就成了跛脚鸭。