WASHINGTON — President Trump’s point man on Israeli-Palestinian negotiations is a longtime Trump Organization lawyer with no government or diplomatic experience. His liaison to African-American leaders is a former reality-TV villain with a penchant for résumé inflation. And his Oval Office gatekeeper is a bullet-headed former New York City cop best known for smacking a protester on the head.
华盛顿——特朗普总统手下负责以巴谈判事宜的主要人物是在特朗普集团(Trump Organization)供职多年的律师，毫无政府或外交工作经验。他的非裔美国人领袖联络人曾是电视真人秀里的恶人，喜欢在简历上弄虚作假。他的椭圆形办公室守门人，则是一名顽固不化的前纽约市警员，以击打一名抗议者的头部闻名。
Every president sweeps into office with a coterie of friends and hangers-on who sometimes have minimal experience in the arcana of the federal government. But few have arrived with a contingent more colorful and controversial than that of Mr. Trump, whose White House is peppered with assistants and advisers whose principal qualification is their long friendship with Mr. Trump and his family.
每位总统入主白宫时，都会带上一帮朋友和跟班，这些人有时对联邦政府的奥秘一无所知。但比起其他任何一位总统，特朗普上任时带来的团队都更多姿多彩，也更富于争议性。他的白宫里充斥着这样一群助手和顾问：他们最主要的资历就是和特朗普及其家族长期以来的友谊。
There is Jason Greenblatt, the former Trump Organization lawyer, whose portfolio now includes peace in the West Bank, international trade deals and relations with Cuba. Omarosa Manigault, whose star turn on the “The Apprentice” propelled the show’s breakout first season, is now among about two dozen aides with the rank of assistant to the president — and one of the few with walk-in privileges for the Oval Office.
其中有贾森·格林布拉特(Jason Greenblatt)，前特朗普集团律师，他现在要处理的事务包括约旦河西岸和平、国际贸易协议以及和古巴的关系。还有奥马罗萨·马尼戈特(Omarosa Manigault)，她曾在《学徒》(The Apprentice)中展现明星光彩，为火爆的第一季节目推波助澜，现在则跻身二十多名顶着总统副手头衔的助理之列，是少数几个可以随意走进椭圆形办公室的人之一。
Most other staff members must go through Keith Schiller, who rose from part-time security guard at the Trump Organization to its director of security. Mr. Schiller is now the director of Oval Office operations, controlling physical access to a president whose whims and frustrations routinely send aides throughout the building scurrying to deflect, defend and justify.
其他幕僚则必须先过基思·席勒(Keith Schiller)这关，他曾是特朗普集团的兼职安保人员，后来被拔擢为安全主管。席勒现在是椭圆形办公室行动主管，控制着接触总统的实体通道——这位总统很容易心血来潮和烦躁，迫使整栋楼里的助手每天忙于为其转圜、辩白、找理由。
The influence of longtime Trump friends and associates — some of them with vague portfolios — comes as a leadership void has been created by the Trump administration’s slow pace in filling top jobs in many agencies. It has also added to the confusion of a West Wing already legendary for its power struggles, while bewildering Washington policy hands.
特朗普政府没能及时确定很多机构的高级职务人选，使得领导层出现了真空，特朗普的老友及长期助手——其中很多人的职责都很模糊——的影响力由此得到彰显。这也让原本就因权力斗争而被街谈巷议的白宫西翼变得更为混乱，同时让华盛顿在政策方面手足无措。
“Titles do matter,” said Paul C. Light, a presidential scholar at New York University. “You don’t say: ‘You are my buddy; you are my friend; you were with me on my television show. I’m going to give you a really great title.’ These are not things to be handed out like candy.”
“头衔是很重要的东西，”纽约大学(New York University)总统问题学者保罗·C·莱特(Paul C. Light)说。“你不能说：‘你是我的哥们；你是我的朋友；你和我一起上过我的电视节目。我要给予你们非常棒的头衔。’这可不是发糖。”
To help him wrangle Silicon Valley chief executives and modernize United States government technology systems, Mr. Trump has hired Reed Cordish, the scion of a Baltimore real estate dynasty who is married to a close college friend of Ivanka Trump, who set them up. In a statement, Mr. Cordish said his real estate experience had taught him how to successfully meld public and private interests.
特朗普聘用了里德·科迪什(Reed Cordish)帮自己对付硅谷那些首席执行官，并负责美国政府技术系统的现代化。科迪什出身于巴尔的摩的一个房地产王国，在伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)牵线搭桥之下，和她的一个大学时代密友结了婚。科迪什在一份声明中表示，他的房地产从业经验教会了他如何成功地把公共利益和私人利益结合起来。
The president also recently hired Andrew Giuliani, the son of former New York City Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and a Trump family friend, to work in the White House Office of Public Liaison and Intergovernmental Affairs. Mr. Giuliani, 31, who made headlines after he sued Duke University for kicking him off the college golf team, previously worked in sales and marketing at a small suburban New York financial firm.
总统最近还聘用纽约市前市长鲁道夫·W·朱利安尼(Rudolph W. Giuliani)之子、特朗普家族的朋友安德鲁·朱利安尼(Andrew Giuliani)，在白宫公共联络和政府间事务办公室(White House Office of Public Liaison and Intergovernmental Affairs)工作。朱利安尼现年31岁，曾因起诉把他从校高尔夫球队开除的杜克大学(Duke University)而登上新闻头条，以前在纽约郊区一家小金融公司做过销售和市场推广工作。
Personal relationships with the president often bestow a power exceeding official West Wing job titles. Valerie Jarrett, a businesswoman, former city official in Chicago and longtime friend of the Obamas, was renowned for her unmatched access to President Barack Obama and reach into policy matters far beyond her official portfolio.
和总统的私人关系常常能带来一种超越白宫西翼正式职务的权力。商人瓦莱丽·贾勒特(Valerie Jarrett)在芝加哥市政府工作过，是奥巴马夫妇的老友，曾以跟奥巴马总统熟络、对政策事务的介入远超其正式职责范围而出名。
Sarah Huckabee Sanders, a White House press spokeswoman, said Mr. Trump had recruited highly skilled advisers with refreshingly different backgrounds. “Even though some of the staff doesn’t have government experience it doesn’t mean they are amateurs,” she wrote in an email. “President Trump has promised to change Washington and you can’t do that by putting Washington bureaucrats in charge of everything.”
白宫新闻发言人萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)说，特朗普招募了一些有着高超技能和极其不同的背景的顾问。“尽管有些工作人员不具备政府工作经验，但这并不意味着他们是新手，”她在一封电子邮件中写道。“特朗普总统已经许下让华盛顿改头换面的诺言，要做到这一点，你就不能让华盛顿的官僚掌管一切。”
If Mr. Trump appears more eager than past presidents to bring in longtime associates with limited Washington experience, friends said, it stems partly from his background of four decades at the helm of a closely held family business, with no experience in public service.
朋友们说，特朗普看上去可能比往届总统更渴望把那些在华盛顿政坛的资历颇为有限的长期助手带在身边，这在某种程度上与他的背景有关：他掌管一家封闭型家族企业长达四十年之久，没有出任过任何公职。
He has had to assemble a White House team largely from scratch, tapping a party apparatus he believed had tried to deny him the nomination and a Republican policy elite that had largely opposed him. The bulk of his senior White House aides were unknown to him until two years ago.
他不得不基本上从零开始组建一支白宫团队，不得不倚重一个在他看来曾设法不让他获得提名的政党组织，以及一群基本上都反对过他的共和党政策精英。他的白宫高级助手大多是两年前的他没听说过的人。
”Trump doesn’t have a longtime staff of political aides; these loyalists fill that vacuum,” said Christopher Ruddy, a friend and chief executive of Newsmax Media, the conservative news site.
“特朗普没有一个长期追随他的政治助手团队，这些忠于他的人填补了这一空缺，”特朗普的朋友、保守派新闻网站Newsmax Media的首席执行官克里斯托夫·拉迪(Christopher Ruddy)说。
“He is figuring out who he can depend on.”
“他正在盘算可以倚重谁。”
Enforcer and Negotiator
行刑人与谈判专家
Mr. Schiller, 58, a 6-foot-3 former narcotics detective, has protected Mr. Trump for 18 years. The head of a Praetorian Guard of private security detectives, Mr. Schiller occupied a Trump Tower office on the same floor as his boss and learned, he said, to anticipate his wishes.
现年58岁、身高6英尺3英寸的席勒保护特朗普已有十八个年头。作为一支私人安保部队的负责人，席勒在特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)内有一间办公室，与其老板的办公室位于同一个楼层，他说他还学会了揣摩老板的意图。
A fierce protector of Mr. Trump’s image and interests, he physically removed a reporter from a 2015 news conference on the campaign trail after he repeatedly questioned Mr. Trump without being called on.
席勒是特朗普的形象和利益的激烈捍卫者。2015年，在一场关于竞选活动的新闻发布会上，一名记者多次未经允许便向特朗普提问，结果被席勒逐出会场。
Five activists later sued Mr. Schiller, the Trump Organization and other Trump security guards, claiming they had been assaulted during a protest outside Trump Tower in September 2015. Mr. Schiller has acknowledged hitting one man but said the man attacked him first.
接着，五名活动人士起诉了席勒、特朗普集团以及特朗普的其他安保人员，声称他们于2015年9月在特朗普大厦外参加抗议活动时遭到了这些人的袭击。席勒承认自己对一个人动了手，但他说是那个人先攻击他的。
No longer responsible for Mr. Trump’s physical safety, he is now a combination gatekeeper, valet and security blanket — a familiar face for a president who detests solitude and whose wife and youngest son have remained at Trump Tower.
他现在不再对特朗普特朗普的人身安全负责，而是集守门人、贴身男仆和安乐毯的功能于一身——对于妻子和最年幼的儿子都留守特朗普大厦，但却厌恶孤独的总统来说，他是一个熟悉的面孔。
But Mr. Schiller has not entirely shed his role as Mr. Trump’s enforcer. During a briefing on health care legislation on Friday, he shouted at reporters to clear out of the Roosevelt Room after they tried to question Mr. Trump about continuing controversies.
不过，席勒尚未完全摆脱作为特朗普的“行刑人”的角色。周五，在一场关于医保立法的简报会上，他对一群记者大喊大叫，让他们离开罗斯福厅(Roosevelt Room)，因为他们试图就持续存在的争议质疑特朗普。
Mr. Greenblatt’s ties to Mr. Trump have translated into more striking levels of power and prestige. A lawyer who helped Mr. Trump negotiate business deals for two decades, Mr. Greenblatt rose to become the Trump Organization’s chief legal officer and executive vice president.
格林布拉特与特朗普的关系，则转化成了层级更为惊人的权力和威望。作为一名律师，格林布拉特曾在20年时间里帮助特朗普洽谈生意，并升任特朗普集团的首席法务官和执行副总裁。
Now, as special representative for international negotiations for the White House, Mr. Greenblatt, 49, is charged with negotiating trade agreements and overseeing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and United States-Cuban relations. Mr. Trump has called him “brilliant.”
目前，现年49岁的格林布拉特是白宫的国际谈判特别代表，负责就贸易协议展开谈判，监控以巴冲突以及美国与古巴的关系。特朗普说他“很杰出”。
But experts say it is hard to imagine how anyone, no matter how intelligent, could handle three such sensitive and complex assignments without previous experience.
但一些专家表示，很难想象哪个毫无经验的人能做好上述三项如此敏感而又复杂的工作，不论那个人有多聪明。
“Our sense is that the Trump White House views the foreign policy establishment as pretty feckless. They seem to think that applying a business approach can work better,” said Martin S. Indyk, the executive vice president of the Brookings Institution, who was President Obama’s special envoy to the Middle East.
“我们有这样一种感觉：特朗普的白宫把外交政策权威人士视作无用之人。他们似乎认为，采取一种商业化的方式可以起到更好的效果，”布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)执行副会长马丁·S·因迪克(Martin S. Indyk)说。
“Not to have experience or knowledge of the issues in dispute, nor any relationship with the Palestinians, will be a challenge,” he said.
“既不具备与争议中的议题有关的经验和知识，又和巴勒斯坦人没有任何关系，这会很困难，”他说。
The ‘Apprentice’ Rises
“学徒”崛起
Ms. Manigault, 43, has no policy experience, a spotty history in her previous federal positions and a résumé that has cast her — inaccurately — as a university professor and a former top aide to Vice President Al Gore.
现年43岁的马尼戈特没有任何政策方面的经验，以前在联邦政府工作中有不良记录，还在简历中妄称自己是大学教授，曾经是前副总统阿尔·戈尔(Al Gore)的高级助手。
Yet, to the consternation of the president’s chief of staff, Reince Priebus, and others, Mr. Trump has given her the same title of presidential assistant as Mr. Priebus and other senior aides — and regularly includes her in high-level strategy sessions on the budget and other matters. She said in a January interview in Variety that Mr. Trump “really wanted me to have the freedom to work on many different things.”
不过，让总统的幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)等人惊讶的是，特朗普也给了她一个总统副手头衔，与普利巴斯以及其他高级助手的头衔一模一样——还让她参加关于预算和其他事宜的高层战略会议。她在1月份接受《综艺》(Variety)采访时说，特朗普“是真的想让我放手去做很多事情。”
In a statement from the White House press office, Ms. Manigault said that “while some people try to tear me down,” she was focused on giving women, minorities and other groups a voice in the White House.
马尼戈特在一份来自白宫新闻办公室的声明中表示，“当一些人试图把我拉下马的时候”，她正致力于代表女性、少数族裔以及其他群体在白宫发声。
Nominally, Ms. Manigault directs the office of communications in the White House’s public liaison office, a midlevel post. She is also a bridge to African-American groups, including the heads of more than 60 historically black colleges and universities who met with Mr. Trump in the Oval Office last month.
名义上，马尼戈特在白宫公共联络办公室做传讯主管，这是一个中级职务。她还是总统与非裔美国人群体——包括上月在椭圆形办公室与特朗普见面的60多名传统黑人大学的负责人——沟通的桥梁。
Ms. Manigault tweeted her support for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in 2014, but when Mr. Trump decided to run for president she joined his campaign and defended him vigorously. At an election-night victory party in November, she gave a television interview during which she warned that Mr. Trump’s campaign was keeping an “enemies” list.
马尼戈特曾于2014年发推支持前国务卿希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，但当特朗普决定竞选总统时，她加入了特朗普的竞选团队，并大力为其辩护。去年11月，她在大选夜的胜选派对上接受电视台采访时警告说，特朗普的竞选团队手上有一张“敌人”清单。
Her “Apprentice”-style pugnacity notwithstanding, Mr. Trump insists there is a side of her that she keeps well hidden.
她有着《学徒》式的好斗个性，但特朗普坚称，她把自己的另一面隐藏了起来。
“Omarosa’s actually a very nice person,” he joked at a Roosevelt Room breakfast that she helped organize last month to celebrate Black History Month. “Nobody knows that.”
“奥马罗萨其实人很好，”特朗普在罗斯福厅的一场庆祝黑人历史月(Black History Month)的早餐会上开玩笑道，“只不过没人知道这一点。”马尼戈特参与了早餐会的组织工作。