There were plenty of things Suzanne Schecter, a freelance TV producer in New York, could have done with $10,000. But instead of purchasing, say, a trip around the world, or just a Louis Vuitton steamer trunk, Ms. Schecter hired Tanya Zuckerbrot to help her lose weight.
对于纽约的自由电视制片人苏珊娜·谢克特(Suzanne Schecter)来说，1 万美元可以做很多事情。然而，她既没有用它来周游世界，也没有购买路易·威登(Louis Vuitton)的旅行皮箱，她花这笔钱请塔尼娅·查克布洛特(Tanya Zuckerbrot)来帮助自己减肥。
The way Ms. Schecter saw it, $10,000 was a small price to eliminate the pounds that had been plaguing her for years. “I felt very strongly that I needed a profound kick in the pants, because it wasn’t going to happen any other way,” said Ms. Schecter, 50, a self-described food addict who said she took chicken cacciatore to show-and-tell one day in fourth grade. “I think it was my way of saying, ‘If I throw some money at this I’m going to have no choice but to follow through.’ ”
谢克特女士的观点是，为了减下困扰了她多年的数磅体重，1万美元只是小小的代价。她今年50岁，形容自己对食物上瘾，她说在上小学四年级的“展示和讲述课”(show-and-tell)时，她的展示物品是一份意式瓦罐焖鸡。“我觉得迫切需要有人来痛打我一通，因为其他方法根本不管用，”她说：“我想这就是自己表达态度的方式：‘既然在这上面花了钱，那么除了坚持到底之外我别无选择。’ ”
Ms. Schecter is among a coterie of high-powered New Yorkers who are happily giving their money to Ms. Zuckerbrot, a registered dietitian and author of “The F-Factor Diet: Discover the Secret to Permanent Weight Loss,” published in 2006, and the “The Miracle Carb Diet: Make Calories & Fat Disappear — With Fiber,” which came out in late 2012. Disciples of the F-Factor Diet include Dylan Lauren, daughter of Ralph and a candy entrepreneur; the model and actress Molly Sims; and Donny Deutsch, the eyeglasses-wielding advertising mogul who credits Ms. Zuckerbrot with helping him lose 20 pounds.
包括谢克特在内，一群精明强干的纽约人都乐于向查克布洛特女士付出大把钞票。查克布洛特是一名注册营养师，同时也是2006年出版的《高纤维饮食：探索永久减肥的秘密》(The F-Factor Diet: Discover the Secret to Permanent Weight Loss)一书的作者，而她的另一本书《神奇的碳水化合物饮食：使用纤维素消灭卡路里和脂肪》(The Miracle Carb Diet: Make Calories & Fat Disappear — With Fiber)在 2012 年年底推出。高纤维饮食的信徒包括了以下名人：拉尔夫·劳伦(Ralph Lauren)的女儿、糖果企业家迪伦·劳伦 (Dylan Lauren)；模特兼演员莫莉·西姆斯(Molly Sims)；以及广告大亨多尼·多伊奇(Donny Deutsch)，他声称查克布洛特帮他减掉了20磅体重。 
“She gets the way people live,” Mr. Deutsch said. “You can go to any restaurant you want, and she’ll tell you how to order. She really integrates eating better with knowing that people have to live the way they do.”
“她从人们的生活方式入手，”多伊奇先生说：“你可以去任何想去的餐厅，她将指导你如何点菜。她认可每个人都应有自己的生活方式，而她做的就是将更好的饮食习惯与你的生活相融合。”
Just who is this woman, and why are so many people willing to pay her so much to give them a nutritional makeover?
这个女人究竟是何方神圣？为什么有这么多人情愿付给她这么多金钱，只为了获得一场营养改造？
For starters, Ms. Zuckerbrot, 40, a Long Island native whose mother is Colombian, is a walking billboard for her business. Pencil-thin with a lustrous mane of black hair, she favors four-inch heels and form-fitting clothes, and could easily pass for one of the beautiful people who frequent her practice. Her office on East 57th Street is similarly sleek: all white, with touches of apple green and a staff that looks as if it popped out of the pages of Vogue.
让我们从头说起。查克布洛特女士的母亲是哥伦比亚人，但她本人生长在纽约长岛。她今年40岁，身材苗条，拥有一头浓密富有光泽的黑发，喜欢穿四英寸的高跟鞋和剪裁合体的服装，足以与经常光顾她诊所的美人们相媲美，因此也就成了自己事业的活广告。她那位于57大街东街的办公室也同样雅致：总体采用白色调，其间点缀着数抹苹果绿，并配有一名工作人员，看起来活脱脱是从《时尚》杂志(Vogue)中的画面。
“It’s one thing to be told from a magazine or a book what to eat, but it’s another to hear it from someone who’s absolutely breathtaking,” said the current Miss Universe, Olivia Culpo, who has been meeting with Ms. Zuckerbrot (the official dietitian to the Miss Universe organization) for the last year. “She has three kids. She looks decades younger. She’s a living example of the F-Factor diet.”
“从杂志或者书本上得知应该吃什么是一回事，而从一个看起来令人惊艳的人口中听到同样的建议完全是另外一回事，”现任环球小姐奥利维亚·卡波(Olivia Culpo)如是说，去年，她一直接受着查克布洛特女士（环球小姐组织的官方营养师）的服务。“她有三个孩子，但看起来比实际年龄要年轻几十岁。她是高纤维饮食的一个活生生的例子。”
Ms. Zuckerbrot attended the University of Michigan, and went to New York University for her masters in food and nutrition studies. After school, she worked with cardiac patients and diabetics. Not only did her patients improve their clinical conditions by following a diet rich in fiber, she said, but they lost weight, too.
查克布洛特女士就读于密歇根大学(University of Michigan)，而后在纽约大学(New York University)获得了食品与营养学的硕士学位。毕业后，她向心脏病患者和糖尿病患者提供健康服务。她表示，在采用富纤维饮食后，她的患者不仅在临床病情方面有所改善，还减轻了体重。
This is not a revolutionary theory in the nutrition world, but to carb-starved people who had been struggling through the recent spate of breadless diets like Atkins, it made her worthy of canonization.
在营养学领域内，这并不算什么突破性的理论，但对于一直在阿特金斯饮食法等低碳水化合物饮食的洪流中苦苦挣扎的“碳水化合物饥民”，高纤维饮食足以令他们将查克布洛特奉为女神。
“I have a Mother Teresa complex,” Ms. Zuckerbrot said with a laugh.
“我有一种特雷莎修女(Mother Teresa)情结，”查克布洛特女士笑言。
Her diet plan gives clients permission to eat carbohydrates, provided they’re high in fiber. Her biggest requirement is that they eat at least four high-fiber crackers, like Finn Crisp or GG Bran Crispbreads, daily; she also has her own line of F-Factor foods (not included in the $10,000 fee). Clients can drink alcohol, and eat at their favorite restaurants.
她的饮食计划允许客户吃碳水化合物，只要吃的是高纤维食物。她最高的要求不过是客户每天至少要吃四块高纤维薄脆饼干（如芬兰酥[Finn Crisp]或麦麸薄脆饼干[GG Bran Crispbreads])；此外，她也有自己的一系列高纤维食品（不包含在1万美元咨询费之内）。客户们可以饮酒，也可以在自己喜欢的餐厅就餐。
Since 2011, F-Factor-friendly foods have been sold at Philippe restaurant in New York; in late February, the Midtown trattoria Bice unveiled a line of 21 F-Factor-approved appetizers, entrees, sides and desserts.
自2011年以来，高纤维类食品已在纽约的菲利普餐厅(Philippe restaurant)销售；到2月下旬，纽约中城的比切意式餐厅(trattoria Bice)也推出了一套高纤维类食品，由21种不同的产品组成，包括开胃菜、主菜、配菜和甜点等。
And if clients runs into a potential food crisis (“Help! I’m trapped at Le Bernardin and don’t know what to order!”), they can call, text or e-mail Ms. Zuckerbrot, and she will guide them to culinary safety.
如果客户遭遇了潜在的食品危机（“救命！我在伯纳丁餐厅[Le Bernardin]，可我不知道该点什么菜！”），他们可以给查克布洛特打电话、发短信或发电子邮件，并从她那里获得关于如何安全享用美食的指导。
“One of the coolest things is, you can just call and say, ‘I’m going to the NoMad tonight for dinner,’ and the staff will get the menu and tell you what you can eat,” said Blaine Templeman, a lawyer in Manhattan, who said he had lost about 50 pounds with her help. “I can do one quick little call and have menu advice so I’m prepared when I walk in the door.”
“最酷的一件事是，你只消打电话说：‘今晚我要在游牧人餐厅(NoMad)吃晚饭’，诊所的工作人员就将根据餐厅的菜单告诉你可以吃些什么”，布莱恩·坦普尔曼(Blaine Templeman)说，他是曼哈顿的一名律师，并在查克布洛特的帮助下减掉了约50磅体重。“只要一个电话就可以获得点餐建议，等我走进餐厅大门时我已经胸有成竹。”
Ms. Zuckerbrot says she knows firsthand just how exasperating weight loss can be. When she married in 2000, her husband, Glenn Beyer, would inhale burgers, fries, pizza and Chinese food without gaining an ounce, she said. Ms. Zuckerbrot had been daintily eating salads, steamed chicken and broccoli to stay thin, but “it occurred to me that perhaps I actually didn’t need to be so restrictive.”
查克布洛特女士表示，减肥会令人十分恼火，对此她有切身体会。她回忆道，2000年她结婚了，她的丈夫格伦·拜尔(Glenn Beyer)即使狼吞虎咽下大堆汉堡、薯条、比萨和中国菜，体重也不会增加哪怕一盎司。而她自己则一直严格地食用沙拉、清蒸鸡肉和西兰花，以求保持身材苗条，但“某一天，我突发奇想，或许我并不需要这样苛求自己。”
“Maybe,” she said, “like my husband, I was one of those lucky people who could eat whatever she wanted and not gain weight.”
“也许，”她接着说，“我会是像我丈夫那样的幸运儿，可以想吃什么就吃什么，永远不用担心发胖。”
She was wrong. Within six months, she had put on 24 pounds. In an effort to rein in temptation, she refused social invitations and stayed home at night, thinking she would eat less than if she were out with friends. That strategy failed wildly: she ended up isolated, depressed and consuming more.
然而她错了。在六个月内，她的体重增加了24磅。为了抵制诱惑，她拒绝了社交邀请，晚上呆在家里，还以为自己会比跟朋友外出时吃得少点。可惜这一战略惨遭失败：她变得孤独、沮丧，吃得也更多了。
“I finally decided to get my life back and commit to the way I was teaching my clients to eat,” she said.
“于是我终于决定回归原来的生活，并坚持遵守教给自己客户的那种饮食方式，”查克布洛特说。
She cut out refined carbs (white pasta, pizza, white rice, frozen yogurt, gummy bears, sugared cereal) and began following a diet filled with high-fiber carbs and more lean protein. Three months later, she said, she was back at her prenuptial weight.
她不再食用精制的碳水化合物（白面意面、披萨、白米饭、冷冻酸奶、熊宝宝软糖和加糖的麦片），开始遵循由高纤维碳水化合物和精益蛋白质（低脂肪蛋白质）组成的饮食。她说，三个月后她又恢复了婚前的体重。
But the experience made her sympathetic to people in the weight-loss trenches, which clients say is one of the reason they are willing to pay so much.
但这一经历使得她对同在减肥战壕中的“战友们”感同身受，客户们也表示，这是他们愿意向她支付如此高薪酬的原因之一。
Lisban Osorio, 47, of New York, an owner of Casa Los Charcos, a vacation villa in Mexico, said he lost 44 pounds on F-Factor. He still sees Ms. Zuckerbrot once a month for a half-hour, for which he pays about $600. (The $10,000 package includes 10 visits; cheaper ones that include another dietitian can be arranged.) Ms. Zuckerbrot also offers a one-hour supermarket tour for $1,500, and a one-hour $1,500 refrigerator and pantry makeover.
现年47岁的纽约人里斯本·奥索里奥(Lisban Osorio)是墨西哥度假别墅Casa Los Charcos的业主，他说在食用高纤维食品后减掉了44磅。至今，他仍然每月与查克布洛特面谈一次，每次半小时，费用约600美元。（标价为1万美元的服务套餐包括10次面谈；也有较便宜的套餐，由另一名营养师参与。）查克布洛特还提供为期一小时的超市导购服务，费用为1500美元；以及为期一小时的冰箱和食品储藏室改造服务，费用为1500美元。
“It’s a little pricey, but when you meet her right away, you genuinely like her,” Mr. Osorio said. “ ‘Sincere’ is the best way to describe her.”
“贵是有点贵，但只要你一遇到她，你就会真心地喜欢上她，”奥索里奥说：“用‘真诚’来形容她再贴切不过了。”
Ms. Schecter, who ended up losing 30 pounds, called Ms. Zuckerbrot an “amazing cheerleader.”
谢克特女士最终减掉了30磅，她将查克布洛特女士称为“神奇的啦啦队长”。
When she met Ms. Zuckerbrot in April 2012, Ms. Schecter said, “Tanya took my hand and said, ‘I promise you’ll be able to have things you want, once you feel that you’re in an element of control and can go right back on the plan.’ ”
回想起2012年4月她与查克布洛特女士的相遇，谢克特女士说道：“塔尼娅拉着我的手，说：‘只要你觉得你具有控制能力并能够切实按照计划执行，我保证你一定能够心想事成。’ ”
“Is that worth $10,000? I don’t know the answer to that,” she added. “But I feel she is someone I can go back to for years to come if I need a little bit of a cheerleading session.”
“这种服务是否值1万美元？我也不知道答案，”她补充道：“但我觉得，她会是那种多年后，在我需要一点鼓励的时候就会想到的人。”
And if F-Factor devotees’ wallets are a little lighter, along with their scale readings, at least they have company. Ms. Schecter recalled a trip she took to Capri last year. When she arrived at breakfast, she was armed with her “Ziploc bag of cardboard roof tiles” (the high-fiber crackers). She glanced at a nearby table and noticed a woman carrying her own plastic baggie full of crackers.
如果说高纤维饮食的粉丝们的荷包和体重都变轻了一点，至少他们拥有同伴。谢克特女士回忆起去年她在意大利卡普里的旅行，吃早饭时，她随身带了一袋高纤维饼干。然后她瞟了一眼旁边的餐桌，发现还有一位女士也拿着这么一整袋饼干。
“I knew she was with Tanya,” she said.
“于是我知道她肯定也是坦尼娅的拥趸，”她说。