In the video for “Bitch I’m Madonna,” a party anthem released last Wednesday, the pop star of the title, in a clingy Moschino leopard-print dress, hot-pink coif and gold teeth grills, romps through the corridors of the Standard hotel along Manhattan’s High Line. “The bass is pumping,” she sings, adding a suggestive phrase before gleefully making out with some guy in the hallway.
上上周三，流行巨星麦当娜发行了《姐是麦当娜》(Bitch I’m Madonna)的音乐录像，这是一首派对赞歌。在视频里，她身穿紧身莫斯奇诺(Moschino)豹纹连身裙，艳粉色外套，戴着金色牙托，在曼哈顿高线旁边的斯坦德尔得酒店(Standard)走廊里嬉闹。“贝斯在抽动，”她唱道，补充了一句有性暗示的句子，之后在走廊里和一个男人欢快地亲热。
Madonna will turn 57 in August. As she has repeatedly pointed out, her age is not going to slow her down. “Shut up jealous bitches!” she wrote recently on her Instagram account. “I hope you are as fun loving and adventurous as me when you’re my age!!!! Hahahhahaha let’s see.” 
到8月，麦当娜就57岁了。她一再指出，年龄并不会放缓她前进的脚步。最近她在自己的Instagram账号上还写道，“让那些嫉妒的贱人们都闭嘴！我希望你们到我的年纪也能这么爱玩爱闹爱冒险！！！！哈哈哈哈哈走着瞧。”
But the subject of her advancing years dominates seemingly every conversation about her, as she has become a crusader, willingly or not, against age discrimination. As someone who once tracked her closely, I have watched with queasy fascination her attempts to navigate the undeniable fact that she is growing older before our eyes in an era of obsessive self-documentation and rampant oversharing — one that she had a direct hand in creating.
但是关于她的所有讨论似乎都绕不开她的高龄，不管愿不愿意，她已经成了反对年龄歧视的斗士。我曾经近距离观察过她，带着作呕的迷恋注意着她怎样处理这个无可辩驳的事实——在众目睽睽之下，在这个执迷于自我记录与疯狂的过度分享的时代，她正在变老，而她也曾经参与了缔造这样一个时代。 
Over the last several months of Madonna’s publicity for her latest album, “Rebel Heart,” I toggle between indignation at the barrage of old-lady jokes (her tumble at the Brit Awards provoking feigned concern about a broken hip) and embarrassment at her febrile determination to be the world’s youngest, raunchiest 56-year-old. It’s relentless: the awkward onstage kiss with Drake, the topless shot in Interview magazine, the strenuous demonstrations of libido. Alongside an Instagrammed photo of the male model Andrea Denver, she wrote “8 pac! Hell to the Yeah!” (This was followed by three heart emojis and a thumbs up.)
麦当娜发行最新专辑《叛逆之心》(Rebel Heart)后，这几个月来，大堆讽刺她是老女人的笑话让我愤怒（她在全英音乐奖上跌倒，人们风传她跌伤了髋骨），但她那种想当全世界最年轻、最浪荡的56岁女人的狂热决心又让我觉得尴尬。她真是不屈不挠：在舞台上和德雷克(Drake)笨拙地接吻、将近半裸地出现在《采访》(Interview)杂志上、还要拼命展现自己的性能量。她在Instagram上发了自己和男模安德里亚·丹佛(Andrea Dnver)的照片，在旁边写道“八块腹肌！太爽了！”然后加了三个心形emoji表情符，还有一个竖大拇指的表情符。
When Madonna lifted her Givenchy matador costume to flash her fishnet-encased derrière on the Grammys red carpet, I reacted first with a kind of clinical admiration (her workouts must be intense, given the muscle mass you lose starting in your 30s), followed by prim disapproval (come on, it’s not as if photographers are going to ignore you if you don’t flash them). Why does she have the seemingly compulsive need to shock and titillate, drawing from a playbook that is now over three decades old? Yes, she is constantly reinventing herself, but is she evolving? “There comes a time in every Salome’s life,” Harvey Fierstein once wrote, “when she should no longer be dropping the last veil.” Has the queen of reinvention reached that point?
在格莱美红毯上，麦当娜撩起自己的纪梵希(Givenchy)斗牛士礼服，亮出包裹着渔网袜的臀部，我先是报以冷静的赞叹（她做健身肯定很勤奋，因为人一过30肯定就要开始丧失肌肉了），接着我又因为循规蹈矩，感到有点不赞同（拜托，就算你不这么晃来晃去，摄影师也不会忘了你的）。她为什么那么急着震撼别人、挑逗别人，简直像得了强迫症一样，这出剧本她已经演了30多年了？没错，她是经常重新定义自己的形象，但她真的在进化吗？“每一个莎乐美生命中都将迎来不应再丢下最后一张面纱的时刻，”哈维·费斯坦恩(Harvey Fierstein)曾经写道。这位百变女王的这一时刻也到来了吗？
Certainly, when it comes to her aging process, belief is easy to suspend. Her skin is flawless, as evinced by the photo she posted from inside the Costume Institute Gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, sandwiched between the much younger Katy Perry and Lady Gaga. Then there is her preternaturally toned frame, honed by grueling workouts a reported six days a week and showed off in Versace ad campaigns.
是的，在她变老的过程中，你很容易满腹狐疑。她贴出了自己出席大都会博物馆的服装学院晚会时的照片，她夹在年轻的凯特·佩里(Kate Perry)和Lady Gaga之间，皮肤毫无瑕疵。还有她那不可思议的身材，既是每周六天严酷健身的结果，也经过范思哲(Versace)广告的修饰。
Much of the hand-wringing around her age focuses on her lack of dignity. But she’s not a United Nations ambassador — she’s a pop star. And let’s not forget that when pop stars now shoot whipped cream out of their bras and wear dresses made of meat, it’s because they are trying to clear the bar she set.
关于她的年龄有很多歇斯底里的指责，主要是说她不够自重。但她又不是联合国大使——她只是个流行歌星。别忘了，现在有的流行歌星从胸罩里往外喷生奶油、穿着用生肉片做成的长裙，她们这样做只是想超过她树立的标准。
In her 1991 documentary film, “Madonna: Truth or Dare,” cameras were voyeuristic, which seemed radical then and eerily prophetic now: Here is Madonna slurping soup while chatting on the phone, there is Madonna getting her throat examined by a doctor. “She doesn’t want to live off camera, much less talk,” said Warren Beatty, her boyfriend at the time.
在她1991年的纪录片《与麦当娜同床》(Madonna: Truth or Dare)里，摄像机就像窥阴癖一样，当时看来非常激进，现在看来却成了怪异的预言：片中有一段是麦当娜一边打电话，一边小口喝着汤，还有一段是医生检查她的喉咙。“她不想在摄像机之下生活，也不怎么说话，”她当时的男友沃伦·比蒂(Warren Beatty)说。
Now we all live constantly on camera, busily Instagramming and tweeting our every move. Madonna’s throat exam is demure compared with “Keeping Up With the Kardashians,” on which we would not be surprised to see a high colonic recorded for posterity.
现在我们随时生活在镜头之前，每干点什么事都要忙着发Instagram和推特。麦当娜检查喉咙的照片和《卡戴珊一家》(Keeping Up With the Kardashians)相比要体面多了，在卡戴珊家那部真人秀里，高位结肠检查的录像都不算回事。
Kanye West, a Kardashian in-law, calls Madonna “the greatest visual musical artist that we’ve ever had.” Her music videos — over 60 — helped define the genre; she has had more No. 1 singles (45) than anyone. Along with Michael Jackson, she expanded the video form from a routine performance — or, in the early days, a goofy skit shot on a paltry budget — into four minutes of emotionally layered storytelling.
坎耶·韦斯特(Kanye West)是卡戴珊的姻亲，他说麦当娜是“有史以来最伟大的视觉音乐艺术家”。她一共拍过60多部音乐录像，可以说参与定义了这个艺术种类；她拥有45首排名第一的单曲，比任何人都多。她和迈克尔·杰克逊(Michael Jackson)一起扩展了音乐录像的形式，从此它不再是例行公事的表演，或者像早年那样只是傻乎乎的小成本制作小品——它真正变成了一个四分钟的故事，充满情感层次。
But she was late to social media — she joined Twitter in 2012 and Instagram in 2013 — and there’s been a stream of gaffes as she attempts to be down with the kids.
但是对于社交媒体来说，她来得太迟——2012年她才用Twitter，2013年才用Instagram——而且为了迎合年轻人，她还出了不少洋相。
In 2000, back when the narrative was easier to control, I interviewed her for the cover story in Rolling Stone. Our chat was to take place in her office at Maverick Records in Los Angeles. Sick with nerves, I showed up an hour early — I had been told she doesn’t tolerate lateness — and sat in front of the building, trying to calm my hammering heart.
2000年，那时候叙事还相对比较容易控制，我曾经去采访她，为《滚石》(Rolling Stone)撰写一篇封面文章。我们在洛杉矶马弗里克唱片公司(Maverick Records)她的办公室里聊天。别人告诉我，她最受不了人迟到，所以我有点紧张，提前到了一个小时，坐在大楼前面，想让心跳平静下来。
She was witty, well read and told amusing stories, such as her worst job as a teenager in Michigan: a house cleaner, scrubbing the toilets at the homes of the popular boys.
她很聪明，读过不少书，张口就是好玩的故事，比如说她十几岁的时候在密歇根做过一份最糟糕的工作——家庭保洁员，得到普通的男孩子们的家里去刷马桶。
I wormed my way into the bathroom adjoining her office, opened the cabinet and dutifully cataloged the contents for my friends: a bottle of Fracas perfume, a geranium facial spray from a company called Tree of Life (which we all ran out and bought) and La Mer face lotion.
我一步步蹭进与她办公室相连的厕所里，打开储物柜，尽职地为朋友们记下里面的物品：一瓶费格丝(Fracas)香水；一瓶天竺葵面部喷雾，是一个叫“生命树”(Tree of Life)的公司出品的（后来我们都跑去买了这个牌子）；还有海蓝之谜(La Mer)面霜。
She was fine-boned and tiny, even though she was heavily pregnant at the time with her son Rocco. At one point, I had to help her, puffing, out of a chair. It was odd to see a person celebrated for her superhuman strength so physically vulnerable.
当时她正怀着儿子罗科(Rocco)，已经距离生产不久，但可以看出她骨架纤细。有一次我还得搀着气喘吁吁的她从椅子上站起身来。看着这样一个以超人般的力量著称的人竟然如此脆弱，真是很奇怪的感觉。
Now I see her as vulnerable in a different way, the constant products from her outrage-generator obscuring her talent. The strange thing is that like her triceps, her voice is stronger than ever, most notably in March during a live performance of “Ghosttown” at the iHeartRadio Music Awards, with no horned dancers, just Taylor Swift strumming guitar. (What better testament to Madonna’s power than to get one of the biggest stars on the planet to be your backup player.)
现在我看到她另一面的脆弱，长年以来，她引来的那些愤怒遮蔽了她的才华。奇怪的是，她的三头肌日渐发达，嗓音也变得比以前更有力量了，最明显的就是三月她在iHeartRadio音乐奖上现场演唱的那首《幽灵镇》(Ghosttown)，当时她身后没有魔鬼的伴舞，只有泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)弹拨着吉他——能找来世界上最大牌的明星之一给自己伴奏，这也证明了麦当娜的影响力。
Among the most intriguing tracks on “Rebel Heart” is the simple, haunting “Joan of Arc,” in which she reveals that contrary to belief, the haters do burrow under her skin. “Each time they write a hateful word,” she sings, “dragging my soul into the dirt/I wanna die.”
专辑《叛逆之心》里有不少精彩的歌曲，其中有一首简单的歌曲格外令人难忘，那就是《圣女贞德》(Joan of Arc)，她在这首歌里透露，和人们所相信的不同，那些憎恨她的人的确让她感到困扰。“每当他们写下恶毒的话语，”她唱道，“把我的灵魂拖进尘土/我都生不如死。”
In interviews, Madonna has repeatedly said that she is kicking down the doors so that the women following her will not have to deal with ageism. Perhaps she has begun to change the paradigm already: People magazine selected Sean Connery as its Sexiest Man Alive at age 59 (and bald as a cantaloupe), while 42 (Halle Berry in 2008) is the current ceiling for Esquire’s Sexiest Woman Alive.
在接受大小采访时，麦当娜一再强调，自己正在充当先驱者的角色，好让自己身后的女人们不再受年龄歧视之苦。或许她已经开始改变人们对年龄的看法了：《人物》(People)杂志选择了59岁的肖恩·康纳利(Sean Connery)作为最性感的男人（他已经谢顶）；而2008年，当时42岁的哈莉·贝瑞(Halle Berry)当选《Esquire》杂志的“尚在世的最性感女人”，迄今还没有年龄更大的女性当选。
“I take care of myself; I’m in good shape,” she told a reporter after her Grammys flash, with some epithets for good measure. She can show her bare bottom, she pointed out, “when I’m 56 or 66 — or 76.”
“我好好照顾我自己；我体型很好，”在格莱美亮相之后，麦当娜对一个记者说，另外还说了其他一些话。她说，她敢于出示自己的光屁股，“不管是56岁，还是66、76”。