Chinese food has been popular since Americans started going out to dinner, but cooking it at home has never quite caught on — maybe because so many Americanized Chinese restaurants still serve sweet-and-sticky or deep-fried dishes (I’m looking at you, General Tso’s chicken) that don’t seem like good weeknight choices.
中餐流行起来是因为美国人开始外出就餐，但在家做中餐就不那么诱人，或许是因为许多美式中餐馆仍然提供那种甜腻或热油烹炸的食品（左宗棠鸡，说的就是你），这样的菜似乎不是周末在家做菜的上选。
Enter Fuchsia Dunlop, a British journalist who has done more to explain real Chinese cooking to non-Chinese cooks than anyone. (It all started in the mid-1990s, when she enrolled in cooking school in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province, more to improve her language skills than with the expectation of becoming a skilled cook.)
扶霞·邓洛普(Fuchsia Dunlop)是一位英国记者，但她做的更多的是向非华裔厨师们解释中餐的真正做法（这是从20世纪90年代中期开始的，当时她在四川省会成都上烹饪学校，主要是为了锻炼语言技巧，没想到自己能成为技艺娴熟的厨师）。
Her latest cookbook, “Every Grain of Rice,” is about simple, everyday Chinese cooking, leaving no more room for excuses from American home cooks. Anyone can buy a bamboo steamer online, and tofu is available at nearly every supermarket in the country. Frankly, there isn’t a faster or more healthful way of organizing weeknight dinners. (And we are not just talking about stir-fries.)
她的新书《每一粒米》(Every Grain of Rice)写的是简单的中国家常菜，有了它，美国人再也没有借口不在家里做中餐了。所有人都可以在网上买到竹篾蒸笼，豆腐更是在美国的几乎每个超市都能买到。平心而论，周末的晚上，还有什么比自己动手做中餐更加快捷健康的呢（我们说的可不只是翻炒）。
The recipes in this book are authentic, gathered from Ms. Dunlop’s travels around China, and were chosen to suit modern home cooks.
本书中的菜谱都很正宗，是邓洛普在中国旅行期间收集来的，而且经过了精挑细选，为的是适应现代家庭烹饪的需要。
We’re going to make gong bao chicken, a pop classic with hot chiles, crunchy peanuts and plenty of garlic and ginger. Then Ms. Dunlop will join me and three Dining readers in a live video chat to discuss the recipe and Chinese cooking at home.
在这里我们要介绍宫保鸡丁，这是一道经典流行菜，使用辣椒、脆花生和大量姜和蒜。邓洛普会和我以及三位美食版读者一起在现场视频聊天中讨论这道菜，以及如何在家烹饪中餐。
“Everyone loves it, and it’s complex enough to be interesting without being too complicated to make,” Ms. Dunlop said of the gong bao chicken. “Plenty to talk about.” We look forward to it.
“所有人都喜欢它，它内容丰富，令人喜爱，做起来又不太难，”邓洛普这样评价宫保鸡丁，“它有很多东西值得一说。”我们都期待着这次谈话。
Gong Bao Chicken With Peanuts
花生宫保鸡丁
Adapted from “Every Grain of Rice: Simple Chinese Home Cooking,” by Fuchsia Dunlop (W.W. Norton & Company, 2013) 
改编自《每一粒米：简单中国家常菜》，扶霞·邓洛普著，(W. W. Norton & Company, 2013)
Time: 40 minutes 
用时：40分钟 
Yield: 2 to 3 servings
份量：2至3人份
For the chicken:
主料：
2 boneless chicken breasts (11 to 12 ounces total), with or without skin
两块去骨鸡胸肉，11-12盎司(约合0.3-0.35千克——译注)，去皮或不去皮均可
3 garlic cloves
3瓣蒜
An equivalent amount of ginger
与蒜数量相当的姜
5 spring onions, white parts only
5根小葱，只留葱白
A handful of dried chiles (about 10)
一把干辣椒（约10个）
2 tablespoons cooking oil
2汤匙烹饪用油
1 teaspoon whole Sichuan pepper
一茶匙花椒
3 ounces (75 grams) roasted peanuts (see note)
3盎司（合75克）烤花生（参见注释）
For the marinade: 
腌汁用料：
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 茶匙盐
2 teaspoons light soy sauce
2茶匙生抽
1 teaspoon Shaoxing wine (or use dry sherry or dry vermouth)
1茶匙黄酒（或使用干雪利酒或干味美思酒）
1 1/2 teaspoons potato starch or cornstarch
1.5茶匙土豆淀粉或玉米淀粉
For the sauce:
酱汁原料：
1 tablespoon sugar
1汤匙糖
3/4 teaspoon potato starch or cornstarch
3/4茶匙土豆淀粉或玉米淀粉
1 teaspoon dark soy sauce
1茶匙老抽
1 teaspoon light soy sauce
1茶匙生抽
1 tablespoon Chinkiang vinegar (or use balsamic vinegar)
1汤匙镇江香醋（或其他香醋）
1 teaspoon sesame oil
1茶匙香油
1 tablespoon chicken stock or water
1汤匙鸡汤或水
1. Cut chicken as evenly as possible into half-inch strips, then cut strips into small cubes. Place in a small bowl. Add marinade ingredients and 1 tablespoon water to bowl. Mix well and set aside.
1.把鸡肉尽量切成半英寸宽（约合1.2厘米——译注）的长条，再把长条切成见方的小块。放入小碗，加入腌料及一汤匙水，搅拌均匀后静置待用。
2. Peel and thinly slice garlic and ginger. Chop spring onions into chunks as long as their diameter (to match the chicken cubes). Snip chiles in half or into sections, discarding their seeds.
2.蒜姜去皮，切成薄片。葱切成长度和直径相当的小段（以便搭配见方的鸡肉块）。辣椒从中剪开或切成小段，去籽。
3. In a small bowl, combine the sauce ingredients.
3.在小碗中混合酱料。
4. Heat a seasoned wok over a high flame. Add oil, chiles and Sichuan pepper and stir-fry briefly until chiles are darkening but not burned. (Remove wok from heat if necessary to prevent overheating.)
4.炒锅用大火加热。放入油、辣椒和花椒，短暂翻炒至辣椒颜色变深，但不要烧糊（如有必要，把锅从火上移开，以防过热）。
5. Quickly add chicken and stir-fry over a high flame, stirring constantly. As soon as chicken cubes have separated, add ginger, garlic and spring onions and continue to stir-fry until they are fragrant and meat is just cooked through (test one of the larger pieces to make sure).
5.迅速加入鸡肉，大火翻炒，不断搅拌。鸡肉块一旦散开，便加入葱姜蒜，持续翻炒至肉刚熟透，散发出香味（可品尝其中较大一块，以确定是否熟透）。
6. Give sauce a stir and add to wok, continuing to stir and toss. As soon as the sauce has become thick and shiny, add the peanuts, stir them in and serve.
6.搅拌酱汁，加入锅中，继续搅拌翻炒，至酱汁浓稠发亮，加入花生，翻炒后上桌。
Note: Store-bought roasted peanuts work well here, but if you want to roast your own peanuts, heat oven to 250 degrees. Place raw nuts on an oven tray and roast for 15 to 20 minutes, until fragrant and very slightly golden. (Keep an eye on them, as they are easily burned.) Cool nuts on a plate, then rub nuts between your fingertips to loosen their skins. Shake nuts as you blow over them; skins will blow away.
注释：此处可用市售烤花生，但如果你想使用自己烤的花生，可将烤箱调至250华氏度。将生花生放入烤盘，烘烤15-20分钟，直到冒出香气，花生变为淡淡的金黄色（花生易烤焦，要留意）。在盘中把花生放凉后用指尖摩擦，以便让外皮松脱。摇晃，吹气，就可以去掉花生外皮。