Rome’s tourists are venerated and degraded in “La Grande Bellezza” (“The Great Beauty”), a film by the Italian director Paolo Sorrentino that won this year’s Oscar for best foreign film. Whatever its views of visitors, the movie acts as an irresistible invitation to the Eternal City’s more subtly beguiling attractions, as its suave protagonist and the audience are coolly guided through hidden courtyards, historic palazzos and less-frequented works of architecture.
电影《绝美之城》(The Great Beauty)为意大利导演保罗·索伦蒂诺(Paolo Sorrentino)赢得了今年的奥斯卡最佳外语片奖，片中在罗马旅行的人们既受到尊崇，也遭到贬低。不管它对观光者们的态度如何，这部影片如同一个难以抗拒的邀请，彬彬有礼的主角与观众们被带领着走过隐匿的庭院、古老的宫殿与游客罕至的经典建筑，一起欣赏这座永恒之城最为精美的名胜。
It’s a journey worth emulating, according to the Rome Cavalieri, a Waldorf-Astoria Hotel offering guests their own guided tour of destinations featured in the film, including the apartments at Palazzo Sacchetti (the palace of the Marquis Sacchetti, normally open to the public only for a hefty price), a luncheon at the home of the Marchioness Violante Guerrieri Gonzaga, and a few inevitable sites, like the Colosseum.
隶属华道夫-阿斯多利亚酒店的罗马卡瓦列里酒店说，这样的旅行完全应当亲身体验一次，这家酒店为住客提供导游行程，专门造访《绝美之城》拍过的地方，包括萨奇蒂宫(Palazzo Sacchetti)中的公寓（这座宫殿属于萨奇蒂侯爵，要付极高的票价方可入内），在维奥兰特·格里瑞里·贡扎加侯爵夫人(Marchioness Violante Guerrieri Gonzaga)家中享用午宴，以及参观罗马圆形大剧场等必去之地。
The full-day excursion begins at the Fontana dell’Acqua Paola on Janiculum Hill, followed by a visit to the Tempietto (tomb) at Donato Bramante’s San Pietro church in Montorio and a walk across Baccio Pontelli’s Ponte Sisto bridge to see Borromini’s illusory corridor at the Palazzo Spada in Rome’s historic district, where the courtyards of Renaissance palaces will be open. Later, the tour stops for a private lunch and reception on the rooftop terrace of the Marchioness’s Palazzo Taverna before heading to the Via Veneto neighborhood and the ancient baths at Caracalla. It finishes with a rarely seen view of the city through the keyhole of a door on Aventine Hill.
这个一日行程从贾尼科洛山上的阿夸宝拉喷泉开始，接着造访多纳托·布拉曼特(Donato Bramante)所建的蒙特利约的圣彼得教堂，寻访那里的坦比哀多礼拜堂（坟墓），接着走过巴西奥·庞泰利(Baccio Pontelli)所建的西斯托桥，观赏罗马古城区斯帕达宫中波罗米尼(Borromini)所建造的幻影般的长廊，古城区那些文艺复兴时期的宫殿的庭院将对外开放。之后，旅行团会在侯爵夫人的塔维尔纳宫的楼顶天台上享受私密的午餐和招待，之后去往维亚·维内托城区，以及卡拉卡拉古浴场。最后登上阿文提诺山，从门上的钥匙孔里，以一个罕见的角度去窥看这个城市。