In an increasingly globalized employment market, Laura Altamirano Sainz’s story could sound routine.
在日益全球化的就业市场上，阿尔塔米拉诺·赛恩斯(Altamirano Sainz)的故事可能听起来司空见惯了。
After studying at the Xalapa campus of the Anahuac University, in Mexico, Ms. Altamirano, 23, a computer science graduate, traveled to Germany last year to take an internship with the automaker BMW. Once there, she realized just how fertile Munich’s job market was for software engineers, so she decided to stay on and continue her studies in Germany.
去年在墨西哥阿纳瓦克大学(Anahuac University)哈拉帕分校计算机专业毕业后，当时22岁的阿尔塔米拉诺女士前往德国，在汽车制造商宝马公司(BMW)参加实习。但抵达德国后，她意识到慕尼黑就业市场对软件工程师的需求庞大，所以她决定继续留在德国深造。
Her search for a university master’s program quickly brought her to the Technical University of Munich. A once-traditional German technical college, T.U.M. has in recent years developed into a global player that, as part of that development, now offers many courses in English.
在对当地硕士课程进行研究后，她很快锁定了慕尼黑工业大学(Technical University of Munich)。慕尼黑工业大学曾经是一所传统的德国理工大学，近年来已经发展成为一家全球性的高校，有许多课程用英语授课。
The school “is really well known,” said Ms. Altamirano. “When you have this in your curriculum vitae, they really take this into account,” she added, referring to potential employers.
阿尔塔米拉诺女士说，慕尼黑工业大学“真的十分声名显赫”。她补充说：“如果简历上有它，潜在雇主们真的会很重视。”
According to a recent survey of university graduate employability, Ms. Altamirano could scarcely have made a better choice.
根据最近一项针对大学毕业生就业能力的调查，阿尔塔米拉诺女士做出的这一选择几乎是再好不过了。
The third annual Global Employability Survey, designed and commissioned by the French education consulting firm Emerging and carried out by the German market research firm Trendence, asked recruiters and senior international executives to profile an ideal university graduate — and the ideal university producing such graduates.
由法国教育咨询公司Emerging设计并委托、由德国市场研究公司Trendence承办的第三届年度全球就业能力调查(Global Employability Survey)，让招聘人员和资深跨国公司高管描述出他们心中的理想大学毕业生以及培养这种大学毕业生的理想高校。
Analyzing the responses, the Emerging/Trendence survey, published Oct. 28, ranked 150 top universities according to the employability of their graduates. Ms. Altamirano’s choice — the Munich technical school — ranked number 11, up from 50th place a year earlier, a rise that Emerging says may point to a changing mind-set among recruiters.
Emerging/Trendence这一调查的结果于10月28日发布。通过分析受访者的反馈，研究人员列出了毕业生就业能力排名前150名的大学。阿尔塔米拉诺女士选择的慕尼黑工业大学排名由去年的第50位升至第11位。Emerging咨询公司称，这一变化可能意味着招聘企业的心态正在改变。
“Recruiters are more and more acting and thinking globally,” said Laurent Dupasquier, associate director of Emerging. Multinational companies are increasingly widening their recruitment pool, he said: Although the ranking’s top 20, led by Oxford, Harvard and Cambridge, still reads like most conventional academic listings, institutions that focus on providing graduates with a broad skill set are winning more recognition, irrespective of their country or region.
“招聘者的行为和想法越来越具有全球化特点，”Emerging咨询公司的副总监洛朗·杜帕斯奎尔(Laurent Dupasquier)说。此外，他认为跨国公司正在日益扩大它们的招聘池。排名前20位仍然由牛津大学(Oxford)、哈佛大学(Harvard)和剑桥大学(Cambridge)等名校占据，这与大多数传统的学术排名类似，但那些着力让毕业生掌握广泛技能的高校——不论它们在哪个国家或地区——正在赢得更多的认可。
“It’s a complete globalization of the system,” said Mr. Dupasquier: not only are more recruiters looking across borders for hires, but national recruiters are increasingly looking for the same thing in graduates: work experience and practical know-how, social and communication skills, motivation and willingness to learn, rather than narrowly focused academic qualifications.
“这是整个体系的全面全球化，”杜帕斯奎尔先生说。如今，不仅有越来越多的招聘人员跨越国界寻找人才，而且招聘人员对毕业生要求也越来越趋同化：工作经验和实际应用知识、社交和沟通技能、动机和学习意愿，而不再把重点狭隘地放在学历这一项上。
Still, even if recruiters are looking at a wider pool, the survey suggests that past experience with graduates of specific universities remains an important determinant in hiring. Overall, 21.8 percent of recruiters surveyed said that the university attended by an applicant was the main criterion for selection, while another 45.1 percent cited it as an important factor. That compared with 33.1 percent who said they focused on the candidate’s skills and experience.
不过，虽然招聘者面对的招聘池变大了，但该调查表明，与特定大学的毕业生打交道的过往经验仍然是影响雇用决定的一个重要因素。总体而言，21.8%的受访招聘人员称应聘者的毕业院校是筛选的主要标准，而另外45.1%的受访招聘人员将它视为一个重要因素。相比之下，仅有33.1%的受访招聘人员表示他们主要看应聘者的技能和经验。
Recruiters in France and Brazil were most likely to consider the university in hiring decisions, with only 17.6 percent of recruiters saying it was not a major factor. In Mexico and the Netherlands, in contrast, nearly half — 49.6 percent in Mexico and 48.5 percent in the Netherlands — focused on other factors.
在法国和巴西，招聘人员在聘用决定方面最有可能以毕业院校为考量标准，只有17.6%的招聘人员说这不是主要因素。相比之下，在墨西哥和荷兰，近一半的招聘人员（墨西哥为49.6%、荷兰为48.5%）则更关注其他因素。
More significantly, nearly two-thirds of the recruiters said they regularly used university lists provided by their company as a reference point for hiring.
最为显著的是，近三分之二的招聘人员表示，他们经常使用公司提供的高校名单作为雇用决定的参考因素。
The survey initially tallied online responses from more than 2,700 recruiters in 20 countries to build a profile of the ideal graduate employee. Respondents had a minimum of four years’ experience and the survey targeted those aiming to hire internationally. Countries covered were Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, Britain and the United States.
该调查最初通过在网上收集来自20个国家2700多名招聘人员的反馈信息，描绘出了他们心目中理想的应届毕业生雇员特点。调查受访者至少有四年从业经验，并且该调查还特别针对了意在全球范围内招募员工的招聘人员。调查所覆盖的国家包括澳大利亚、巴西、加拿大、中国、法国、德国、印度、意大利、日本、马来西亚、墨西哥、荷兰、波兰、俄罗斯、新加坡、西班牙、瑞士、土耳其、英国和美国。
The top-150 university ranking was derived from their responses, combined with those of a subsequent poll of 2,300 top executives in a total of 30 countries.
150强大学排名是根据他们的回应以及随后对30个国家共2300位企业高管的调查结果得出的。
Critics challenge academic rankings, often questioning their metrics and underlying assumptions. While the Emerging/Trendence study’s focus on employability bypasses many of the issues associated with conventional rankings, its conclusions may be influenced by weighting anomalies in the respondent group in terms of factors including geographical location and sector of activity.
学术排名饱受诟病，批评人士常常质疑它们的衡量指标和潜在的假设。虽然Emerging/Trendence研究对就业能力的专注规避了许多与传统排名相关的问题，但它的结论可能会受到地理位置和行业部门等因素在不同受访组中权重异常的影响。
For example, of the 20 countries covered by the initial recruiter survey three together provided more than 25 percent of the respondent group — the United States, China and, perhaps surprisingly, Italy. Of 20 sectors surveyed, information technology hardware and software companies provided 14 percent of respondents; and of all respondents, nearly 24 percent were recruiting for I.T. departments.
例如，在最初招聘人员调查所涵盖的20个国家中，美国、中国和意大利这三个国家共占受访组成员的25%以上。在被调查的20个行业中，来自信息技术硬件和软件公司的受访者占14%。在所有受访者中，近24%为IT部门招聘员工。
Still, setting aside questions about the sample base, the survey offers some insights into recruitment attitudes. While about half the recruiters said that teaching practical know-how, the ability to combine theoretical with practical knowledge and soft skills were the most important characteristics of an ideal university, they put surprisingly little value on the school’s international exposure and outlook.
不过，撇开有关调查样本基础的问题，通过调查可以洞察招聘者的一些态度。尽管大约一半的招聘人员称传授实践专长、结合理论与实践知识和软技能的能力是理想大学最重要的特征，但令人意外的是，他们不重视学校的国际视野和前景。
Internationalism is something recruiters say they look for in the individual job-seeker, not the institution.
招聘人员称，他们期望个人求职者具备国际视野，而不是高校。
“We look for people that have a global mind-set,” said Dan Black, the Americas director of recruiting at Ernst & Young. “It’s people that are open to and excited about working with people from other cultures.”
“我们期待求职者具备全球性思维方式，”安永会计师事务所(Ernst & Young)的美洲招聘主管丹·布莱克，“是那些在与其他文化背景的人合作时保持开放心态和期望的人才。”
According to the survey, in which Mr. Black did not take part, graduates from the United States, Britain and Germany were most favored by recruiters.
根据该调查（布莱克先生没有参加），来自美国、英国和德国的大学毕业生备受招聘者青睐。
Respondents said China was their fourth most favored source country for recruitment — and five Chinese universities made it into the top 150 list, along with another three in Hong Kong, a combined total equal to Germany’s. China’s rise was one of the most striking trends identified in last year’s survey.
受访者称，中国是第四大最受青睐的应聘者来源国，有五所中国大学入围前150名榜单。再加上香港的三所入围大学，总和与德国的入围高校数量相当。中国的崛起是去年调查确定的最引人注目的趋势之一。
The United States still dominates the employability ranking, with 45 U.S. universities in the top 150 list, but its dominance has been slightly reduced since the first survey three years ago, when American schools held 56 of the top spots. Britain has 14 schools in this year’s top 150; France has 12; Germany 8; Switzerland 7 and the Netherlands 5.
美国在就业能力方面的排名仍然占主导地位，前150名榜单中有45所美国高校，但其霸主地位较三年前第一次调查时已经略有削弱，当时美国有56所高校跻身榜单。今年150强中包括英国的14所高校、法国的12所、德国8所、瑞士7所和荷兰5所。
“Traditional small countries are punching far above their weight,” said Mr. Dupasquier.
杜帕斯奎尔先生说，“传统小国表现超常。”
Mexico, where Ms. Altamirano did her undergraduate degree in systems engineering and information technology before heading to Munich, has two universities in the top 150.
墨西哥有两所大学跻身150强。阿尔塔米拉诺女士在前往慕尼黑之前正是在墨西哥获得了系统工程和信息技术的本科学位。
MOOCs — massive open online courses — also figure in this year’s survey, with a majority of recruiters viewing their use in post-secondary education favorably, according to Emergence.
Emergence称，大规模在线开放课程(MOOC)也在今年的调查中有所反映，大多数的招聘人员积极看待高等教育中MOOC的运用。
While graduation from a top university plays a role in many new hires, Mr. Black, of Ernst & Young, stressed that the crest on the diploma should not be the only factor for talent scouts.
虽然毕业于顶尖大学这一优势在许多新员工的受聘中起到了关键作用，但安永会计师事务所的布莱克先生强调，文凭不应该是唯一的人才考量因素。
“We firmly believe that talent exists at large and small schools, private and public universities,” Mr. Black said. “I would encourage other employers to be very open about where they recruit from.”
“我们坚信，无论是大型还是小型学校，无论是私立的还是公立的，都会培育出人才，”布莱克先生说，“我鼓励其他雇主对人才的出处，心态可以更开放些。”