WASHINGTON — Coca-Cola has always been more focused on its economic bottom line than on global warming, but when the company lost a lucrative operating license in India because of a serious water shortage there in 2004, things began to change.
华盛顿——比起全球变暖问题，可口可乐公司(Coca-Cola)一向更注重自身的经济效益。然而，2004年，当公司因为严重的水资源短缺而在印度市场失去利润丰厚的营业执照时，情况开始改变。
Today, after a decade of increasing damage to Coke’s balance sheet as global droughts dried up the water needed to produce its soda, the company has embraced the idea of climate change as an economically disruptive force.
全球性干旱消耗了可口可乐生产汽水所需的水资源，使得公司在过去10年里的财务损失不断扩大。时至今日，它已经接纳了气候变化是一种经济破坏力量的观点。
“Increased droughts, more unpredictable variability, 100-year floods every two years,” said Jeffrey Seabright, Coke’s vice president for environment and water resources, listing the problems that he said were also disrupting the company’s supply of sugar cane and sugar beets, as well as citrus for its fruit juices. “When we look at our most essential ingredients, we see those events as threats.”
“越来越多的干旱、愈发不可预测的变化、每两年就遭受一次百年一遇的洪水，”可口可乐负责环境与水资源事务的副总裁杰夫·西布莱特(Jeffrey Seabright)一一列举着气候问题。他说，这些问题还打乱了公司的甘蔗和甜菜供应，以及生产果汁所需的柑橘属水果供应。“当我们考虑最必不可少的配料时，我们把这类事件视为威胁。”
Coke reflects a growing view among American business leaders and mainstream economists who see global warming as a force that contributes to lower G.D.P.’s, higher food and commodity costs, broken supply chains and increased financial risk. Their position is at striking odds with the longstanding argument, advanced by the coal industry and others, that policies to curb carbon emissions are more economically harmful than the impacts of climate change.
可口可乐身上反映了在美国商界领袖和主流经济学家当中越来越得势的一种观点。他们把全球变暖视为一股力量，它会促使GDP下降、抬高粮食与商品成本、破坏供应链并加剧财务风险。他们的立场和煤炭等行业推动的一种经久不衰的观点截然相反，那就是，碳排放遏制政策比气候变化的影响造成的经济损害还要严重。
“The bottom line is that the policies will increase the cost of carbon and electricity,” said Roger Bezdek, an economist who produced a report for the coal lobby that was released this week. “Even the most conservative estimates peg the social benefit of carbon-based fuels as 50 times greater than its supposed social coast.”
经济学家罗杰·贝兹德克(Roger Bezdek)说，“关键是这些政策会增加碳和电力成本。”本周，煤炭游说团体公布了一份委托他撰写的报告。“即使是最保守的估计，都会认为碳基燃料带来的社会收益，比它损耗的所谓社会成本要高出50倍。”
Some tycoons are no longer listening.
有些商界大亨已不再听从这样的观点。
At the Swiss resort of Davos, corporate leaders and politicians gathered for the annual four-day World Economic Forum will devote all of Friday to panels and talks on the threat of climate change. The emphasis will be less about saving polar bears and more about promoting economic self-interest.
在瑞士的度假胜地达沃斯，企业领导人和政客们汇聚一堂，参加为期四日的年度世界经济论坛(World Economic Forum)。他们会把周五的全天时间都用于举行与气候变化的威胁相关的全会和对话活动。讨论重点不太会是拯救北极熊，而是更多地放在推动经济私利上。
In Washington, the World Bank president, Jim Yong Kim, has put climate change at the center of the bank’s mission, citing global warming as chief contributor to rising global poverty rates and falling G.D.P.’s in developing nations. In Europe, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the Paris-based club of 34 industrialized nations, has begun to warn of the steep costs of increased carbon pollution.
在华盛顿，世界银行(World Bank)行长金墉(Jim Yong Kim)已把气候变化放在了世行使命的核心位置，理由是全球变暖是导致全球贫困率上升及发展中国家GDP下降的首要因素。在欧洲，经济合作与发展组织(Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)已经开始就过高的碳污染成本发出警告。该组织由34个工业化国家组成，总部位于巴黎。
Nike, which has more than 700 factories in 49 countries, many in Southeast Asia, is also speaking out because of extreme weather that is disrupting its supply chain. In 2008, floods temporarily shut down four Nike factories in Thailand, and the company remains concerned about rising droughts in regions that produce cotton, which the company uses in its athletic clothes.
由于供应链受到极端气候的破坏，在49个国家有700多家工厂的耐克公司(Nike)也在日益公开地表明态度。2008年，洪水导致耐克暂时关闭了在泰国的四家工厂。公司对产棉区不断加重的旱情担忧不已，因为生产运动衣要使用棉花。
“That puts less cotton on the market, the price goes up, and you have market volatility,” said Hannah Jones, the company’s vice president of sustainability and innovation. Nike has already reported the impact of climate change on water supplies on its financial risk disclosure forms to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
负责可持续业务与创新的耐克副总裁汉娜·琼斯(Hannah Jones)说，“干旱会减少市场上的棉花供应，导致价格上涨，市场波动。”耐克已在递交给美国证券交易委员会(Securities and Exchange Commission)的财务风险报告中披露了气候变化对供水造成的影响。
Both Nike and Coke are responding internally: Coke uses water-conservation technologies and Nike is using more synthetic material that is less dependent on weather conditions. At Davos and in global capitals, the companies are also lobbying governments to enact environmentally friendly policies.
耐克和可口可乐都进行了内部响应：可口可乐采用了节水技术，耐克则增加了对于天气状况依赖程度较低的合成材料的使用量 。在达沃斯以及世界各国，这些公司也正在游说政府实施环保政策。
But the ideas are a tough sell in countries like China and India, where cheap coal-powered energy is boosting the economies and helping to lift millions of people out of poverty. Even in Europe, officials have begun to balk at the cost of environmental policies: On Wednesday the European Union scaled back its climate change and renewable energy commitments, as high energy costs, declining industrial competitiveness and a recognition that the economy is unlikely to rebound soon caused European policy makers to question the short-term economic trade-offs of climate policy.
不过，类似理念在中国和印度等国难以获得接纳，因为在这些国家，廉价的煤基能源刺激了经济发展，帮助千百万人摆脱贫困。即使在欧洲，环保政策的成本也开始令官员踯躅不前：周三，欧盟削弱了在气候变化和可再生能源方面的承诺。由于能源成本高居不下、工业竞争力持续下降，以及意识到经济不太可能很快反弹，欧洲的决策者们对气候政策的短期经济考量产生了质疑。
In the United States, the rich can afford to weigh in. The California hedge-fund billionaire Thomas F. Steyer, who has used millions from his own fortune to support political candidates who favor climate policy, is working with Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor, and Henry M. Paulson Jr., a former Treasury secretary in the George W. Bush administration, to commission an economic study on the financial risks associated with climate change. The study, entitled “Risky Business,” aims to assess the potential impacts of climate change by region and by sector across the American economy.
在美国，富人们有资本来参与此事。加州对冲基金亿万富翁托马斯·F·斯蒂尔(Thomas F. Steyer)自己掏出数百万美元来支持青睐气候政策的政治候选人。斯蒂尔目前正与前纽约市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)、乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)政府的财政部长小亨利·M·保尔森(Henry M. Paulson Jr.)合作，委托研究机构开展一项跟气候变化相关的金融风险的经济学研究。这份研究报告名为《危险的生意》(Risky Business)，目的是分区域、分部门地评估气候变化对美国经济的潜在影响。
“This study is about one thing, the economics,” Mr. Paulson said in an interview, adding that “business leaders are not adequately focused on the economic impact of climate change.”
“这项研究围绕着一件事展开：经济，”保尔森在接受采访时说，“商界领袖对气候变化的经济影响关注得还不够。”
Also consulting on the “Risky Business” report is Robert E. Rubin, a former Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. “There are a lot of really significant, monumental issues facing the global economy, but this supersedes all else,” Mr. Rubin said in an interview. “To make meaningful headway in the economics community and the business community, you’ve got to make it concrete.”
为《危险的生意》提供咨询的还有克林顿政府的前财政部长罗伯特·E·鲁宾(Robert E. Rubin)。“全球经济面临着很多重大问题，但是，气候问题将超越所有其他东西。”鲁宾在接受采访时说。“要在经济界和商界取得真正的进展，你必须把这件事处理好。”