MOSCOW — If Lenin were alive today, instead of spinning in his mausoleum nearby, he no doubt would be aghast at the two-story replica of a Louis Vuitton traveling trunk on Red Square. He might also update the title of his famous essay on the need for a revolutionary vanguard party, asking not “What Is To Be Done” but “Why the Heck Was It Done?”
莫斯科——如果列宁现在活了过来，而不是躺在附近的墓里气得发抖的话，毫无疑问，他会被红场上那个两层楼高的复刻版路易威登(Louis Vuitton)行李箱惊呆。也许，他还会把那篇关于需要一个革命先锋队的著名文章的标题从《怎么办》(What Is To Be Done)改成《见鬼了，为什么搞成这样？》(Why the Heck Was It Done)。
Since construction finished this week, the gigantic luxury trunk, which is just steps from the Kremlin walls and was set to hold a charity exhibition of suitcases by the Paris-based designer, has been panned on social networks, denounced at the Duma and disowned by GUM, the luxury department store that abuts Red Square and approved the temporary exhibition.
这个巨大的豪华行李箱于本周竣工，距离克里姆林宫的围墙只有几步之遥，准备用来举办一场慈善展览，陈列这家巴黎设计公司的箱包。甫一完工，它就在社交网络上遭到冷嘲热讽，被国家杜马谴责，而批准这个临时展览的紧靠红场的奢侈品百货商店GUM也跟它撇清了关系。
In the highest-ranking condemnation yet of the 30-foot-tall, 100-foot-wide trunk, an official in the Presidential Administration on Wednesday said the temporary pavilion was unauthorized and demanded that it be “dismantled immediately,” several state news agencies reported.
这座行李箱有30英尺高（约合9米）、100英尺宽。在一片谴责声中，迄今职位最高的批评者是总统行政办公室的一名官员。几家俄罗斯官方通讯社报道，此人周三表示，这座临时展馆是擅自搭建的，必须“立即拆除”。
Despite a legal ban on anything that “violates the historical appearance” of Red Square, the site of the Lenin mausoleum and yearly military parades celebrating the Soviet victory over Germany in World War II, the space has hosted concerts, dirt-bike stunt shows, a commercial ice-skating rink and a Dior exhibition in a gigantic metallic pavilion in recent years.
红场上不仅有列宁墓，而且庆祝苏联在二战中战胜德国的年度阅兵仪式也在这里举行。尽管法律禁止红场上出现任何“有损历史原貌”的东西，但是近年来，这里已经举办过音乐会、越野摩托车特技表演，出现过一个商业溜冰场，以及迪奥(Dior)的巨型金属展馆。
“Everything that is happening on Red Square is unacceptable,” Tatyana Fedosova, 60, who was dressed in a bright red winter coat, said as she tilted her head back to gaze at the trunk during her lunch break. “This is a sacred place. Our former leaders are buried here. I thought that the ice-skating rink here was not great, but this is too much.”
“在红场上发生任何事情都是不可接受的，”60岁的塔季扬娜·费度索娃(Tatyana Fedosova)说。她穿着艳红色的冬衣，当时正在午休，说话的时候仰头凝视着那栋建筑。“这是一个神圣的地方。我们以前的领袖就葬在这里。我觉得，有个溜冰场已经不太好了，现在这个实在是太过分了。“
Lawmakers began lashing out at Louis Vuitton earlier this week. Sergey Obukhov, a Communist deputy for the Duma, called the square a “sacred place for the Russian government.” He added, “There are symbols that are forbidden to debase or defile.” Aleksandr Sidyakin, a member of President Vladimir V. Putin’s governing United Russia party, demanded an investigation into whether the structure violated any laws on advertising.
本周早些时候，议员们开始对路易威登发起抨击。来自共产党的杜马议员谢尔盖·奥布霍夫(Sergey Obukhov)称，红场是“俄罗斯政府的一个神圣之地”。他还说，“有一些标志是不容贬低或亵渎的。”亚历山大·西佳金(Aleksandr Sidyakin)是普京所在的执政党——统一俄罗斯党的议员，他要求调查这座建筑是否违反了广告法。
GUM, the department store, said in a statement Wednesday that it had told the Russian representative of Louis Vuitton to tear down the exhibition hall, in light of “the position of a part of the population.”
GUM百货公司周三发表声明称，鉴于“部分俄罗斯人的看法”，他们已经要求路易威登驻俄罗斯的代表拆除这个展馆。
This is not the first time Louis Vuitton has become enmeshed into Russian politics in its marketing campaigns. In 2007, a magazine advertisement showed the former Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev riding in a car past the Berlin Wall with a Louis Vuitton bag stuffed with liberal Russian magazines.
路易威登在宣传活动中融入俄罗斯政治元素已经不是第一次了。在2007年的一则杂志广告上，前苏联领导人米哈伊尔·戈尔巴乔夫(Mikhail S. Gorbachev)坐着一辆车经过柏林墙，身旁的路易威登包里塞满了俄罗斯自由派杂志。
But with special attention now being paid to the beautification of Moscow’s public spaces, and social networks swiftly churning out criticism and Photoshopped pictures — like one of Lenin’s tomb reupholstered to look like a Louis Vuitton bag — the public ridicule swiftly led to official threats.
可是现如今，人们对莫斯科公共场所的美化特别关注，而且社交网络迅速聚集了大量批评和PS处理过的图片——比如列宁墓被恶搞成路易威登包的样式——公众的嘲笑迅速引起了官方的威胁。
The fashion house did not respond Wednesday evening to questions on whether the exhibition hall would be removed, but Natalia Vodianova, a fashion model and the head of the charitable fund set to receive the ticket receipts from the exhibition, said in a Facebook post, “Let us hope that the exhibition is not canceled, but just moved to another place.”
对于展馆是否会被拆除，路易威登公司周三晚上没有作出回应，不过，时装模特娜塔丽·沃佳诺娃(Natalia Vodianova)在Facebook上发帖说，“希望这次展览不会取消，只是转移到另一个地方进行。”按照计划，展览的门票收入将捐献给她牵头的慈善基金。
Standing by the metal barriers installed around it on Wednesday, Aleksandr Dubov, a 35-year-old tourist from Yekaterinburg, said he had “nothing personally against the suitcase.”
35岁的亚历山大·杜博夫(Aleksandr Dubov)是一名来自叶卡捷琳堡的游客。周三时，他在展馆周围的金属栅栏边说，自己“跟这个行李箱没有私人恩怨”。
“At least they could leave it up until the exhibition,” said Mr. Dubov, dressed in a leather jacket and carrying a bag made from fake alligator skin. As he circled the building, he stopped occasionally to snap pictures.
“至少他们可以让它留在这里，直到展览结束，”杜博夫说。他穿着皮夹克，带着一个仿鳄鱼皮材质的包，围着展馆绕了一圈，间或停下来拍照。
“Is this a sacred place?” he asked, gesturing to the other side of the square. “There is already an enormous mall on it.”
“这是个神圣的地方？”他指着广场的另一侧问，“那里已经有了一个巨大的商场。”