I took my first steps into North Korea last week.
上周我第一次踏足朝鲜。
It was a surprise, given the rising tensions on the peninsula as Kim Jong-un seeks to advance its nuclear program and President Trump has warned of possible military action against the country.
鉴于金正恩试图推进核计划，半岛紧张局势日益加剧，特朗普总统已经警告过可能对该国采取军事行动，能踏足朝鲜出乎我的意外。
As Tokyo bureau chief — a job I started last August, along with coverage of Japan — I work with my colleague Choe Sang-Hun to cover the Korean Peninsula. I had come to the Korean demilitarized zone (DMZ) that divides the peninsula to report on Taesung, a tiny farming village inhabited by 197 civilians on the South Korean side of the DMZ from which we could look across a field and see North Korea.
作为东京分社社长（我去年8月份开始担任这个职位），除了报道日本的新闻，我还和同事崔尚勋（Choe Sang-Hun，音）合作报道朝鲜半岛的新闻。我曾经到过朝韩边界非军事区（Demilitarized Zone，简称DMZ）报道过自由村(Taesung)的状况，那是非军事区韩国界内的一个小农庄，居住着197个平民，可以看到仅一地之隔的朝鲜。
But it was on a media tour of Panmunjom, the uninhabited village inside the DMZ where the 1953 armistice suspending the Korean War was signed, that I got to step across the military demarcation line between the two countries and officially walk in North Korea for a few minutes.
但是在媒体团到板门店参观时，我跨过了两国之间的军事分界线，正式在朝鲜界内走了几分钟。板门店是非军事区里一个无人居住的村庄，1953年中止朝鲜战争的协议就是在那里签署的。
North Korea, one of the world’s most isolated countries, is typically difficult to visit, as the government is particular about approving travel visas. Although some journalists were invited to Pyongyang last week, I have been told that my American passport makes it difficult to get a visa. So the access was unexpected.
朝鲜是世界上最孤立隔绝的国家之一，由于政府在批准旅行签证时很挑剔，所以通常很难进入。虽然上周有些记者被邀请到平壤，但据我所知，由于我持美国护照，要获得签证很困难。所以能进入朝鲜有点出人意料。
In fact, two days earlier, Vice President Mike Pence had also visited Panmunjom. He had surprised his security detail when he decided at the last minute to step up close to — but not over — the demarcation line, telling The Washington Post that he wanted the North Koreans to “see our resolve in my face,” presumably alluding to the Trump administration’s vow to get North Korea to abandon its nuclear ambitions.
事实上，就在两天前，美国副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)也访问了板门店。他在最后一分钟的决定让安保人员大吃一惊：彭斯决定靠近分界线，不过没有跨越它，他告诉《华盛顿邮报》(The Washington Post)，希望朝鲜人能“在我脸上看到我们的决心”，他应该是指特朗普政府要让朝鲜放弃核野心的决心。
A busload of journalists, however, went farther than the vice president: We walked into a building designed for diplomatic meetings between North and South, and crossed right over.
不过，一批记者比副总统走得更远：我们走进了一个为南北外交会面设计的建筑物，并且立刻就穿过了边界。
As we filed into the United Nations Command Military Armistice Commission building, our South Korean military minder told us not to gesture at the North Korean soldiers gazing down on us from a building on the other side of the demarcation line. Meanwhile, two South Korean soldiers stood stiffly on the north end of the room, their arms bent at the elbows and their fists clenched.
在我们排队进入联合国军司令部军事停战委员会的建筑时，韩方的军事监督员告诉我们，不要对着分界线另一边建筑物上俯瞰我们的朝鲜军人做手势。而两名韩国士兵笔直地站在房间的北端，肘部弯曲，双拳紧握。
The building’s interior looked like a prosaic conference room except for the startlingly bright turquoise walls. Our minder told us to stand in a circle around the room’s large table. “Those of you on that side are in the North,” he said, pointing, well, north. The other half of the circle was still standing in the South.
建筑物内部看起来就像一个普通的会议室，只是青绿色的墙壁有点突兀。我们的陪同人员让大家围绕着房间的大桌子站好。“在桌子那边的人在朝鲜，”他指着北边说。另外半圈人仍然站在韩国境内。
As we moved around the room, we could look through the windows and see the low concrete slabs that mark the line between the North and the South. Outside, we were prohibited from crossing that line. But inside this one building, the border was penetrable. I couldn’t resist taking a photo of my sneakered feet on the North side of the room.
我们在房间里走动时，可以透过窗户看到一些低矮的混凝土板，那是南北分界线的标志。在外面，我们被禁止穿过这条线。但在这栋建筑物内，边界是可以穿越的。我忍不住在房间里照了一张我穿着球鞋的双脚站在北朝鲜一侧的照片。
It all seemed a bit detached from the geopolitical crisis, although I admit after we went back outside I felt a ripple of apprehension when North Korean guards came down a flight of stairs and walked to the back of the building we had just been inside. Apparently there was no need to worry: Su-Hyun Lee, a researcher and interpreter in The Times’s Seoul bureau, noticed a clump of five North Korean soldiers standing on a nearby balcony taking selfies with us as the backdrop. Of course then we needed to take selfies, too.
这似乎没有地缘政治危机的样子，不过我也得承认，当我们回到外面，朝鲜守卫走下楼梯，走到我们刚刚进入的建筑物后面时，我顿时感到一阵恐惧。似乎没有必要担心：《纽约时报》首尔分社的研究员兼翻译李秀贤（Su-Hyun Lee，音）注意到，五名朝鲜士兵站在附近的一个阳台上把我们当成背景自拍。当然这下子我们也需要自拍几张照片了。
In keeping with that spirit, one of the public affairs specialists from the Combined Forces Command that represents the United Nations and the United States military in South Korea whipped out Flat Stanley, a cutout figure of a character from a children’s book series. Her colleague had asked her to bring Stanley to the DMZ and take a photo of him there on behalf of a school project of the colleague’s son.
在这种氛围中，代表联合国和美国驻韩军事部队联军司令部(Combined Forces Command)的一位公共事务专员拿出了扁平娃(Flat Stanley)，这是来自一本儿童读物系列的人物形象。她的同事之前请她把扁平娃带到非军事区，代表同事儿子所在学校的一个项目拍了张照片。
With his purple hair, pink shirt and gentle smile, I thought he looked as if he had the kind of resolve this situation could use.
扁平娃有紫色的头发、粉红色的衬衫和柔和的微笑，我觉得他看起来好像拥有这种状况下所需的那种决心。