WASHINGTON — On the 140th day of the Trump presidency — one for each allotted character on the executive Twitter feed that stayed conspicuously silent all Thursday morning — a very tall man with a very strange place in this very bewildering moment in American history strolled into Hart Senate Office Building 216, shot a quick glance at the masses arrayed behind him and presented a seen-it-all city with something unusual.
华盛顿——在特朗普当上总统的第140天——正好是他的每一条行政推文所能允许的字符数上限，虽然周四上午那个账号出奇地沉默——在美国历史上这一混乱时刻，一个处境极其诡异的大个子，阔步走进哈特参议院办公大楼(Hart Senate Office Building)216房间，快速扫视了一番排布在他身后的人群，给一座阅尽兴衰的城市奉上了某种不寻常的东西。
In a capital accustomed to overcooked spectacle and insufferable congressional testimony, James B. Comey delivered on the hype.
在一座对添油加醋的表演和令人难以置信的国会证词习以为常的都城里，詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)的表现没有辜负舆论的期待。
For about two and a half hours, the room fell into an anxious hush, punctured sporadically by audible emissions of surprise at the remarks of a deposed F.B.I. director with a collection of Trump-branded knives in his reputational torso.
长达两个半小时的时间里，房间里的人陷入了焦灼的静寂。偶尔刺破这静寂的，是一名已经遭到解职，且个人声誉的躯体上插满特朗普牌刀子的联邦调查局局长，用他的陈述引起的阵阵惊呼。
Senators settled into their telegenic gazes, steely but approachable, often whispering to one another as the witness held forth.
证人作证时，参议员们报之以颇为上镜的注视——既坚毅又平易近人——还常常交头接耳。
Photographers clicked with impunity, descending on every twitch: a wave of the hand, a cock of the head, a woman delivering glasses of ice water to Mr. Comey’s table before he arrived.
摄影师们不停地按快门，捕捉每一个瞬间：手一挥，头一偏，一位女士在科米抵达前往他的桌子上放了几杯冰水。
And the headliner summoned a theatrical swagger to match the moment, assuming a role with little precedent: a dispatched federal employee — hero, villain, Shakespearean character in the 2016 election and early Trump administration — staring into the cameras and talking to the president who had fired him.
这场大戏的主角，也有着与此刻相称的戏剧气息，扮演着一个几乎史无前例的角色：一名被解职的联邦雇员——英雄，大反派，2016年大选和特朗普执政初期的莎剧式人物——他直视镜头，对解雇他的总统讲话。
“I’ve seen the tweet about tapes,” he said in one flourish, referring to a Twitter post in which President Trump suggested that he had recorded his interactions with Mr. Comey. “Lordy, I hope there are tapes.”
“我看到了关于录音带的推，”在谈及特朗普的一则推文时，他干脆地说——特朗普在推文中声称自己已经把和科米的交谈录了下来。“老天，我倒希望有录音带。”
So much about the Trump era has scrambled Washington’s sense of itself, as promised. In the haze, it can be difficult to tease out which baffling elements arrived with this president and which were pre-existing conditions, already endemic to an industry town with a Trumpian self-obsession long before he moved in.
一如当日的承诺，关于特朗普时代的凡此种种，已经搅乱了华盛顿对自身的认识。在迷雾中，很难厘清哪些令人困惑的元素是随着这位总统一起到来，哪些又其来有自，早在他搬过来很久之前就已经流行于一个表现出特朗普式自我沉迷的勤谨之地。
Inside the room on Thursday, these dual forces seemed to hurtle into each other, fusing in real time. Echoes of scandals past — Iran-contra, Anita Hill, Monica Lewinsky — wafted overhead, visiting the memories of Senate veterans.
周四，在216房间里，这两股力量似乎相互碰撞，实时交融。伊朗门、安妮塔·希尔(Anita Hill)、莫妮卡·莱温斯基(Monica Lewinsky)等旧日丑闻的回响在头顶飘荡，扣打着资深参议员们记忆的闸门。
But something was different. The zingers ricocheted instantly across the web. Reporters kept an eye on Twitter, awaiting a presidential response that did not arrive as Mr. Comey spoke. (Though Mr. Trump’s son Donald Jr. did weigh in.)
但情况又有些不同。直击要害的话语瞬时传遍网络。记者们密切关注着Twitter，等待总统给出其在科米发言时不曾给出的回应。（不过特朗普的儿子小唐纳德的确发表了评论。）
A modest walk away, the proceedings were aired above the bar at the Trump International Hotel.
不远处，特朗普国际酒店(Trump International Hotel)吧台上方的屏幕播出了听证会全过程。
At the Capitol, attendees took stock of the ubiquity, and wondered. A Trump supporter, Patrick Wells, 49, who had traveled from Massachusetts to support the president, marveled that the hearing had knocked “The Price Is Right” from its broadcast perch. “They usually only do that if it’s an assassination or a terrorist attack,” he said.
在国会，与会者对此事的无所不在感到惊讶。现年49岁的特朗普支持者帕特里克·威尔斯(Patrick Wells)是从马萨诸塞州赶来支持总统的，他惊诧于这场听证会竟然顶了《价格猜猜猜》(The Price is Right)的播出档期。“通常只有发生刺杀或恐怖袭击时他们才会这样做，”他说。
Mr. Wells eyed the slithering line for public admission warily before resigning himself to an overflow room.
威尔斯警惕地看了看等待入场的队伍，被迫进了一间外厅。
Even the lawmakers seemed taken by the spectacle.
就连议员们也被这阵势吓到了。
“West Virginia is very interested in this hearing that we’re having today,” the state’s Democratic senator, Joe Manchin III, said dryly at one point.
“西弗吉尼亚对我们今天的这场听证会非常感兴趣，”该州民主党参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)一度不动声色地说道。
West Virginia had company.
西弗吉尼亚不是特例。
Restaurants opened early for the main event, with Russian vodka specials on offer. Taxis swore off smooth jazz and Top 40 for audio feeds from the Senate Intelligence Committee.
餐厅为这场盛事提早开门，供应特价的俄罗斯伏特加。出租车抛开舒缓的爵士乐和“40大”金曲，广播中传出的是来自参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)的消息。
Off camera, wandering senators, often loath to endure full hearings for even their own committees, slipped into the room to watch their colleagues work.
镜头之外，一些四处游荡的参议员——他们常常不愿忍受哪怕是他们自己的委员会开的听证会——溜进这个房间，观察同僚们的表现。
For much of the morning, boldfaced names dotted the crowd, at least by Capitol standards, spawning the sort of dialogue that might translate poorly in most corners of the country.
这个早上的许多时候，人群中散布着不少名人大腕——至少以国会大厦的标准来衡量是如此——催生出了那种放在这个国家的大多数地方或许很容易引起误解的对话。
Who was that woman snapping all the cellphone photos? (It was Greta Van Susteren of MSNBC.)
拿着手机猛拍照片的那个女人是谁？（MSNBC的葛丽泰·范·瑟斯特伦[Greta van Susteren]。）
Isn’t that the congressman who resigned in disgrace a few years ago? (Yes, it was former Representative David Wu, Democrat of Oregon, who had scored a seat inside.)
那是几年前因为丑闻辞职的那个议员吗？（是的，他是俄勒冈州前民主党众议员吴振伟[David Wu]，他在里面抢到了一个座位。）
Get a look at Preet Bharara, the also-axed former United States attorney for Manhattan. (He sat a few feet behind Mr. Comey, live-tweeting in support of his comrade-in-job-loss.)
快看普里特·巴拉拉(Preet Bharara)，那个同样被踢走的曼哈顿联邦检察官。（他就坐在科米身后几英尺的地方，通过推文直播来支持失业的同志。）
Mostly, though, attention rarely strayed from the witness chair, where Mr. Comey held his audience with an uncommon skill set for a veteran law enforcement official: a novelist’s instinct for narrative and, occasionally, levity.
不过，人们的目光基本很少离开证人席，科米以一种对资深执法人员来说不同寻常的技巧抓住了听众的注意力：他有着小说家般的、时显轻佻的叙事本能。
He likened reporters to sea gulls on the beach. He used “fuzz” as a hard-to-track metaphor and quoted England’s Henry II.
他把记者和海滩上的海鸥联系起来。他用“模糊”(fuzz)做了一个难以找到出处的比喻，还引述了英国亨利二世(Henry II)的话。
He defended his credentials as a reader of people with: “I’ve had a lot of conversations with humans over the years.”
他对自己看人的本事做了辩护：“多年来我跟人类有过很多场谈话。”
And he appeared inclined to win support among viewers, inside the building and out, with an implicit contrast in style to Mr. Trump, reaching often for notes of humility.
此外，他常常表现出谦逊的品质，似乎想要以自己和特朗普在风格上的微妙对比，赢得这栋建筑物内外观众的支持。
“Slightly cowardly,” he said of his own behavior in one interaction with Mr. Trump.
“有点怯懦，”他谈及自己在与特朗普的一次互动中的表现时说。
“I don’t want to make you sound like I’m Captain Courageous,” he mustered later.
“我不想让你们觉得我是勇敢的船长，”他后来总结说。
When Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, thanked him for coming, Mr. Comey reminded her that his employment status had opened up his calendar. “I’m between opportunities now,” he said.
当加利福尼亚州民主党参议员卡玛拉·哈里斯(Kamala Harris)对科米的到来表示感谢时，科米提醒对方他目前正待业。“我的下一个机会尚未到来，”他说。
Others on hand arrived without a formal invitation.
还有一些人不请自来。
Joe Noser, 19, had camped out overnight at the Capitol to secure a prime spot in line. He invoked the Lewinsky affair from the late 1990s, the period of his birth.
现年19岁的乔·诺泽(Joe Noser)在国会大厦外扎营过夜，以确保自己在队伍里有个好位置。他提到了1990年代末，也就是他出生前后的莱温斯基事件。
“It’s not a sex scandal but it’s still important,” he said of Thursday’s events. “It will be the coolest thing to tell your grandkids down the road: ‘I was able to see the Comey hearing.’”
“这并不是一桩性丑闻，但仍然十分重要，”他谈及周四的事件是说。“将来能告诉孙辈，‘我得以亲眼见证了科米的听证会’，会是最酷的事情。”
Nearby, Victoria Herring, 20, who also stayed at the Capitol on Wednesday night to reach the room before dawn, waited among the congressional pilgrims.
附近，现年20岁的维多利亚·赫林(Victoria Herring)等在来国会大厦朝圣的人群之中，为了在黎明之前进入房间，她周三晚上也守在国会大厦这里。
The line stretched down hallways and around corners. Most people would never even sniff the room. Perhaps, Ms. Herring suggested, Mr. Trump would appreciate the scene.
队伍延伸到门廊和拐角处。大多数人甚至绝不可能闻到房间里的气息。赫林表示，特朗普或许会很欣赏这种场面。
“He loves drama,” she said.
“他很喜欢戏剧性，”她说。
And he loves a show with big ratings, or used to.
而且他很喜欢收视率高的节目，或者说过去很喜欢。