When Lawrence H. Summers left his job as President Obama’s top economic policy adviser at the end of 2010 to return to Harvard University, one of his first steps was to set up a roster of part-time positions that would touch on just about every corner of the financial world.
当劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)在2010年底卸任奥巴马总统的首席经济政策顾问，回到哈佛大学(Harvard University)时，他的首要步骤之一是列出一个兼职工作名单，这些工作几乎涉及金融领域的方方面面。
But as he negotiated with a prominent venture capital firm in Silicon Valley, Mr. Summers made one thing very clear: he needed an exit plan, in case he returned to public service.
但当他与硅谷一家知名风险投资公司协商时，萨默斯明确表示自己需要一个退出方案，以防他要回归公共服务领域。
“That was generally the assumption,” said Marc Andreessen, the co-founder of the firm. “If he did, he needed a way to do a clean disengage.”
“一般来说，是这样一个假设，”该公司的共同创始人马克·安德雷森(Marc Andreessen)说。“如果他要回归公共服务领域，他需要一个完全退出的方法。”
Today, the Obama administration is considering nominating Mr. Summers as the next chairman of the Federal Reserve. If the White House does so, Mr. Summers’s financial disclosure — including his recent consulting jobs, paid speeches and service on company boards — will be one of the hottest documents in Washington. Among the top contenders for the position, Mr. Summers has by far the most Wall Street experience and the most personal wealth.
如今，奥巴马政府正在考虑提名萨默斯担任美联储(Federal Reserve)的下一任主席。如果白宫真的提名他，有关萨默斯财务状况的公开信息——包括他最近的咨询工作、有偿演讲以及在公司董事会的业务——将会是华盛顿最热门的文件。在争夺该职位的主要竞争者中，萨默斯是到目前为止金融业从业经历最丰富、个人财富最多的候选人。
“With Larry, my wife always says that it’s hard to be happy if you want to have the most money because you’ll never have the most money,” said Jeremy I. Bulow, an economics professor at Stanford University who is a friend and co-author of academic papers with Mr. Summers. “He’s kind of been going about his life just on the basis of ‘who knows what’s going to come next?’ and just sort of maximizing his experiences, given the opportunities in front of him.”
“说到拉里，我妻子经常说，如果你想要拥有最多的钱，你就很难开心，因为你永远不会拥有最多的钱，”斯坦福大学(Stanford University)经济学教授杰里米·I·布洛(Jeremy I. Bulow)说。“他只是本着‘谁知道接下来会发生什么？’的信条来面对人生的，差不多是根据现有的机会最大程度地丰富自己的经历。”布洛是萨默斯的朋友，两人合写学术论文。
The opportunities have been many over the last two years. Mr. Summers, 58, has been employed by the megabank Citigroup and the sprawling hedge fund D. E. Shaw. He works for a firm that advises small banks as well as the exchange company Nasdaq OMX. And he serves on the board of two Silicon Valley start-ups: both financial firms that may pursue initial public offerings in the next year. One of them, Lending Club, offers loans to consumers and small businesses by making arrangements directly with online investors, a new business model that falls into a regulatory gap that consumer advocates say may lead to risky borrowing.
在过去两年里，萨默斯有很多机会。58岁的萨默斯受雇于超级银行花旗集团(Citigroup)和规模庞大的对冲基金德劭基金(D. E. Shaw)。他还在一家为小型银行和交易公司纳斯达克OMX集团(Nasdaq OMX)提供建议的公司工作。他是两家硅谷创业公司的董事会董事，这两家金融公司可能会在明年进行首次公开募股。其中一家公司——借贷俱乐部(Lending Club)通过直接与网络投资者达成协议来为客户及小型公司提供贷款。这种新的业务模式存在一个管理漏洞，消费者权益倡导团体称这个漏洞可能会导致借贷存在风险。
Before his tenure in the Obama administration, Mr. Summers had accumulated personal wealth of at least $7 million; the last two years have most likely added considerably to that. But his money and Wall Street connections put him in an awkward position, partly because the next person to lead the Federal Reserve will oversee the writing of several key new regulations from the Dodd-Frank financial reform bill.
萨默斯在奥巴马政府任职之前已经累积了至少700万美元（约合4280万元人民币）的个人财富。过去两年里，他很可能又获得了大量财富。但他的资产及他与华尔街的关系使他的处境非常尴尬，这部分是因为下一个领导美联储的主席将监督《多德—弗兰克金融改革法案》(Dodd-Frank financial reform bill)中几个关键新法规的制定。
Wall Street experience is not unprecedented for a Fed chairman. The departing chairman, Mr. Bernanke, has never been employed on Wall Street, spending most of his career at Princeton. But his predecessor, Alan Greenspan, was the president of a consulting firm and worked in investment banking early in his career, and Paul A. Volcker, an earlier chairman, did some work at Chase Manhattan Bank, which is now a part of JPMorgan Chase.
美联储主席有金融业从业经历，这并非史无前例。即将离任的主席伯南克(Bernanke)从未就职于华尔街，他职业生涯的大部分时间是在普林斯顿大学(Princeton)度过的。但伯南克的前任艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)曾是一家咨询公司的总裁，他在职业生涯初期就职于一家投资银行。格林斯潘的前任保罗·A·沃尔克(Paul A. Volcker)曾在大通曼哈顿银行(Chase Manhattan Bank)做过一些工作，该银行现在是摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)的一部分。
Still, some senators are speaking out against Mr. Summers. They are raising questions about potential conflicts of interest and noting his role in the repeal of the Glass-Steagall law, which limited the sorts of activities banks could undertake, and his opposition to regulating derivatives in the 1990s — decisions that many critics say contributed to the financial crisis.
不过，一些参议员仍然公开反对萨默斯。他们质疑潜在的利益冲突，并指出他在《格拉斯—斯蒂格尔法案》(Glass-Steagall)的废除中所扮演的角色。该法案限制了银行可以进行的活动类型。而萨默斯在20世纪90年代反对监管衍生金融工具的决定，被许多批评家称为金融危机的成因之一。
“I start from a position of being extraordinarily skeptical that Larry Summers is appropriate to chair the Fed,” said Senator Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon. “I have serious doubts that Mr. Summers, who as a committed deregulator drove policies that set the stage for the Great Recession, is the right person for a key regulatory position.”
“我对于拉里·萨默斯适合担任美联储主席的观点持非常怀疑的态度，”俄勒冈州民主党参议员杰夫·默克利(Jeff Merkley)说。“我严重怀疑萨默斯是这一关键管理职位的合适人选，作为一名坚定的经济放任主义者，他推动的政策为大衰退(Great Recession)埋下了隐患。”
Mr. Summers declined to comment. But whatever his views on regulatory policy, those who know and admire Mr. Summers say he arrived at them honestly.
萨默斯拒绝置评。但不论他对监管政策的观点如何，那些了解和欣赏萨默斯的人说，他坚持这些观点是出于诚心。
“There has to be a distinction between talking to people, even for payment, and doing what they want you to do,” said Robert Z. Lawrence, a professor who taught a course at Harvard with Mr. Summers this year. “When it comes to Larry Summers, for good or for bad, he’s uncontrollable when it comes to the positions he takes. He doesn’t take them for that reason.”
“与别人交谈和照别人的意思行事肯定是有天壤之别的，哪怕他在这个过程里是收钱的，”今年和萨默斯在哈佛联合授课的教授罗伯特·Z·劳伦斯(Robert Z. Lawrence)说。“具体到拉里·萨默斯时，不管这算好事还是坏事，反正在立场的选取上，他是不受任何人左右的。他不是为了钱而坚持这些观点。”
Mr. Summers’s wealth comes mainly from two periods of private sector work between government postings. After a lengthy tenure at the Treasury Department in the 1990s, he became the president of Harvard — a job that Robert E. Rubin, who preceded Mr. Summers as Treasury secretary, helped him obtain.
萨默斯的财富主要来自几次任公职之间的两个私营企业工作时期。在经历了20世纪90年代美国财政部的漫长任期后，他成了哈佛大学校长，这一职务由接替萨默斯担任财政部长的罗伯特·E·鲁宾(Robert E. Rubin)帮助他获得。
But in 2006, Mr. Summers was forced out of the university presidency for a variety of reasons, including remarks he made questioning why few women engage in advanced scientific and mathematical work. Soon after, a young Harvard alum brought him into the hedge fund world with a part-time posting at D. E. Shaw. That firm, one of the largest in the industry, paid Mr. Summers more than $5 million.
但在2006年，萨默斯因为各种原因而辞去大学校长一职，其中包括他质疑为什么几乎没有女性参与先进的科学和数学工作的言论。不久之后，一名哈佛毕业生把他带入了对冲基金的世界，他开始在德劭集团任一个兼职职位。这家公司是该行业中规模最大的之一，支付给了萨默斯超过500万美元。
Mr. Summers’s wealth soared from around $400,000 in the mid-1990s to between $7 million and $31 million in 2009, when he joined the Obama administration, according to a financial disclosure he filed at the time. Before returning to government service, he earned $2.7 million from speeches in one year alone.
萨默斯的财富从20世纪90年代中期的约40万美元，激增到2009年的700万到3100万美元之间，当时他在奥巴马政府任职，这些数字源于他那时填写的财产披露。在返回政府部门前，他在一年之内获得了270万美元的演讲费。
The job that is likely to generate the most scrutiny for Mr. Summers is his work with Citigroup, which was rescued from the brink of bankruptcy by the federal government’s bailout. In a statement, Citigroup said he provided “insight on a broad range of topics including the global and domestic economy” to prestigious clients, and attended internal meetings.
能给萨默斯带来最多审查的或许是他在花旗集团的工作，该集团是在破产边缘被政府拯救的。在一份声明中，花旗集团表示，萨默斯为知名客户提供了“他的见解，涉及到各类问题，包括全球和美国经济，”他还出席了内部会议。
Asked why Mr. Summers would not have simply opted out of financial work, given the questions it could raise if he were nominated to lead the Federal Reserve, Mr. Bulow, the Stanford economist, said he thought Mr. Summers’s early experience with cancer (at the age of 28, he was treated for Hodgkin’s disease) had been formative. It shaped him to make decisions based on present options, Mr. Bulow said, rather than worrying about future unknowns, like whether President Obama would choose him for the Fed.
考虑到萨默斯如果被提名为美联储主席时可能会遇到的质疑，斯坦福大学经济学家布洛在被问及为什么萨默斯不会简单地退出金融工作时称，他认为萨默斯早年的癌症经历（28岁时他曾接受过霍奇金病治疗）影响了他一生的性格。这一经历让他的决策基于当前的选项，而不是担心未来的不确定性，例如担心奥巴马总统是否会选择他作为美联储主席。
Mr. Summers’s spokeswoman, Kelly Friendly, declined to provide details about his current pay, but said his “broad exposure to different parts of the economy gives him a unique perspective on what makes America work.”
关于萨默斯目前的薪酬，其发言人凯利·弗兰德利(Kelly Friendly)拒绝提供详细数据，但他表示，萨默斯“对经济中不同领域的广泛接触，为他了解美国经济运行的机制提供了一个独特视角。”
In 2009, Mr. Summers said in an interview with The New York Times that he kept boundaries between his private and public work. “I wanted to be involved as an economist, not as a lobbyist,” he said. “I never wanted to be in a position of taking public policy positions based on anything other than my convictions as an economist or a potential policy maker.”
2009年，萨默斯在接受《纽约时报》采访时说，他把私人工作和公共工作之间的界限划分得很清楚。“我想以经济学家而不是说客的身份参与进来，”他说。“在确定公共政策立场时，我希望我的判断是完全基于我作为经济学家或潜在的政策制定者的信念的，除此之外都是我不能接受的。”
Richard W. Painter, a former chief ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush, predicted that Mr. Summers’s work in finance would not derail his nomination or confirmation.
理查德·W·佩恩特(Richard W. Painter)曾是乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统的前首席伦理律师，他认为，萨默斯在金融公司的工作不会严重影响他的提名或确认。
Mr. Painter noted that if Mr. Summers became Fed chairman, he would have to fully divest himself of all interests in the financial companies he works with.
佩恩特指出，如果萨默斯成为美联储主席，他就必须彻底放弃自己在所供职的金融公司的所有利益。
The divestitures, he said, would include even the start-ups, companies that have the potential for Mr. Summers to make sizable future earnings, if they pursue public offerings.
他说，萨默斯甚至需要跟几家创业公司脱离关系；这些创业公司以后如果上市，本来可能会为萨默斯带来可观的收益。
Sheryl Sandberg, chief operating officer of Facebook, best-selling author of “Lean In,” and Mr. Summers’s chief of staff at the Treasury, helped introduce Mr. Summers to Silicon Valley, where he is gaining a good reputation, according to Mr. Andreessen, whose venture capital firm has hired Mr. Summers to give advice to companies like Airbnb and Dwolla, a payments company.
谢丽尔·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)是Facebook的首席运营官，畅销书《进取》(Lean In)的作者，也是萨默斯在财务部工作时的幕僚长。安德里森说，她把萨默斯介绍到硅谷后，他在硅谷赢得了良好的声誉。安德里森的风投公司已经聘请萨默斯，为房屋短租服务Airbnb和支付服务Dwolla这样的公司提供建议。
Mr. Summers serves on the board of two start-ups. The chief financial officer of one of the companies, Square, a mobile payments company, described Mr. Summers in a statement as “a really important member of our team.”
萨默斯进入了两家创业公司的董事会。其中一家是移动支付公司Square，萨默斯担任它的财务总监。该公司在一份声明中将萨默斯称为“我们的团队中一个非常重要的成员。”
The other start-up is Lending Club, which facilitates peer-to-peer loans. Prospective debtors post their personal stories online, asking for money for everything from debt consolidation to in-ground pools to wedding parties. Prospective lenders review the solicitations and offer financing.
另一家创业公司名为Lending Club，是一个“点对点”(P2P)的贷款服务。想借款的人在这个服务上介绍自己的情况，为债务整合、修建游泳池、举办婚礼派对等各种事项申请借款。而有意出借资金的人，则可以审查这些申请并提供款项。
“He’s been very high-profile for the company,” said Renaud Laplanche, the company’s chief executive.
该公司的首席执行官雷诺·拉普朗什(Renaud Laplanche)说：“萨默斯大大提高了公司知名度。”
Lending Club falls into a tricky space in financial regulation. Consumer advocates said Lending Club was so new that they had not yet seen many examples of its loans and collection practices in action. But Sarah Ludwig, the co-director of the New Economy Project, a nonprofit in New York, expressed concern that the company did not verify all borrowers’ income and employment.
Lending Club处于金融监管的灰色地带。消费者权益提倡者表示，Lending Club的理念太新颖了，真正用它贷款和偿还的实例还不多。但是纽约非营利性的“新经济项目”(New Economy Project)联合总监莎拉·路德维格(Sarah Ludwig)表示，她担心该公司没有核实借款者的收入和就业状况。
On top of all his other jobs, Mr. Summers has continued economic research. He is currently the co-chairman of a study at the Center for American Progress about stagnating wages for the middle class.
除了这些工作之外，萨默斯还在继续开展经济研究。他目前是美国进步中心(Center for American Progress)一项研究的联席主席，研究中产阶级工资停滞不前的问题。
“I definitely don’t think of him as a Wall Street guy,” said Neera Tanden, the center’s president. “He runs in the crowd enough to know they’re not always right.”
“我绝对没有把他想成是华尔街的人。”该中心主席尼拉·坦登(Neera Tanden)说。“他对华尔街那些人很了解，知道他们并非总是正确。”
She added that since hearing about Mr. Summers’s many paid assignments, she was happy with their arrangement. He works, she said, as a volunteer.
她补充说，自从听说萨默斯的那些领薪水的职位后，她为他参与这项研究感到高兴。他是以志愿者身份来工作的，她说。