Cartoon fans in Pakistan have been excited by the arrival of the country’s first caped crusader, in the form of a female superhero who flies through the air, battling villains using pens and books.
基斯坦动漫迷怀着激动之情迎来了本国首位穿斗篷的战士，且类型是女性超级英雄，在空中呼啸飞过，用笔和书大战坏人。
The heroine, Burka Avenger, is certainly an unusual role model for female empowerment in Pakistan: a woman who uses martial arts to battle colorful villains such as Baba Bandooq, a Taliban-esque figure who tries to shut down her school, and Vadero Pajero, a corrupt politician.
这位叫布尔卡复仇者(Burka Avenger)的女英雄无疑是巴基斯坦女性赋权行动中一个不寻常的楷模：一名女性用武术和各色坏人作斗争，比如企图让她的学校关门停课的塔利班式人物巴霸·班杜客(Baba Bandooq)，还有腐败政客瓦德罗·帕杰罗(Vadero Pajero)。
But the cartoon, in which a demure schoolteacher, Jiya, transforms into the action heroine by donning a burqa, or traditional cloak, has also triggered an awkward debate about her costume.
在动画片里，举止端庄的吉娅(Jiya)老师只要穿上传统的罩袍布尔卡就变成武艺高强的女英雄。然而，这种服装的设计也引起了一阵尴尬的争论。
“Is it right to take the burqa and make it look ‘cool’ for children, to brainwash girls into thinking that a burqa gives you power instead of taking it away from you?” asked the novelist and commentator Bina Shah in a blog post.
“像这样把布尔卡做的让孩子们觉得很‘酷’，给女孩洗脑，让她们以为，布尔卡不会夺走你的力量，反而会赋予你力量，这样真的好吗？”小说家、时评人碧娜·沙(Bina Shah)在一篇博文中说。
The criticism has not overshadowed the broader welcome that Burka Avenger, which aired here for the first time on Sunday evening, has received. With slick computer animation, fast-paced action and flashes of humor that even adults can appreciate, the character could offer Pakistanis a new cultural icon akin to Wonder Woman in the United States.
然而周日晚间首次播出的布尔卡复仇者还是受到了普遍赞誉，并没有因批评声而失色。流畅的电脑动画、快节奏的动作和偶尔闪现的幽默让成年人都觉得好看，这个人物也许可以在巴基斯坦塑造起一个全新的文化符号，就像神奇女侠(Wonder Woman)之于美国。
The burqa debate centers on whether her use of the all-covering cloak — albeit a more streamlined version of the one usually seen in Pakistani villages — is subverting a traditional symbol of segregation and oppression or reinforcing it.
尽管比起巴基斯坦乡间常见的布尔卡，她的穿着剪裁得更合身，但争论的焦点在于，这样使用包裹全身的罩袍，究竟是在颠覆隔离和压迫的传统象征，还是在加强它。
Sherry Rehman, a former Pakistani ambassador to the United States, said she also disliked the use of the burqa in a children’s show. “A dupatta could have done the job,” she said on Twitter, referring to the head scarf that some women wear in Pakistan.
前巴基斯坦驻美大使谢莉·雷曼(Sherry Rehman)也不喜欢在儿童节目中使用布尔卡，她在Twitter上说，“杜葩塔(dupatta)应该就够用了。”她指的是巴基斯坦一些女性穿戴的一种头巾。
The show’s maker, Aaron Haroon Rashid, said the criticism was misplaced because the heroine uses a burqa only when in disguise. (As Jiya, she does not wear a head scarf). “She wears it to hide her identity,” he said.
节目制作者阿伦·哈鲁恩·拉希德(Aaron Haroon Rashid)说这些批评来自误读，女英雄穿布尔卡不过是为了伪装。（而吉娅是不戴头巾的）。“她穿这个是为了隐藏身份，”他说。
While most Pakistanis have little difficulty relating to burqas, he said, he understood they were controversial in the West. “Sometimes there are extremes when the authorities ban hijab in public or in schools,” he said, referring to efforts to restrict Islamic head scarves in some European countries. “That does not make sense to people in Pakistan.”
他说多数巴基斯坦人不会对布尔卡有什么意见，但他理解在西方世界出现的争议。“有时候极端到当局会在公共场合或学校里禁止面纱(hijab)，”他提到的是一些欧洲国家对伊斯兰头巾的限制举措。“这在巴基斯坦是令人费解的。”
The Burka Avenger character has obvious resonances with Malala Yousafzai, the 16-year-old Pakistani schoolgirl who was shot by Taliban gunmen last year for advocating education for girls and who recently addressed a seminar at the United Nations headquarters in New York.
布尔卡复仇者这个人物显然跟马拉拉·优萨福扎伊(Malala Yousafzai)有些呼应关系，这位年仅16岁的巴基斯坦女学生因为倡导向女孩提供教育去年遭塔利班枪击，最近刚在纽约联合国总部的一个研讨会上做过演讲。
Mr. Rashid, who is a pop star in Pakistan, said work on the show had already started when Ms. Yousafzai was shot. But the attack on her only highlighted the importance of protecting girls’ education, a major theme of the show.
拉希德在巴基斯坦是一个大众明星，他说这个节目在优萨福扎伊遭枪击时已经开始创作了。但是袭击事件反而愈发凸显保护女孩受教育权的重要性，这是该片的一个主题。
Mr. Rashid, who studied business at George Washington University, said he first had an idea for an iPhone game. Then, after working with cartoon animators and musicians in Islamabad, he developed it into a cartoon series.
在乔治·华盛顿大学(George Washington University)学过商业的拉希德说他一开始想着的是做一个iPhone游戏。后来他在伊斯坦堡和动画师、音乐家合作，把这个想法发展成了一个系列动画片。
The story lines often center on social issues with relevance to adults as well as children, such as access to education and corruption.
故事往往围绕着一些社会问题展开，和孩子与大人都有关联，例如受教育机会和腐败。
The use of cartoon characters to impart positive messages is not new. Last year, a Lahore puppet company produced a local version of “Sesame Street,” using American government financing.
用动画人物来释放积极信号并非什么新鲜事。去年印度拉合尔一家木偶剧团在美国政府资助下制作了本地版本的《芝麻街》(Sesame Street)。
Despite the criticism, some viewers said the images did not bother them. “It is a new take on purdah and a strong message of womanhood,” said Kulsume Hai, 35, after watching the show on Sunday evening. Purdah is the tradition of veiling women to separate them from men who are not close relatives. “The burqa is shown as a strength rather than weakness,” Ms. Hai added. “The idea is to show that a burqa-clad woman can be tough, too.”
尽管有批评声，一些观众还是表示他们不介意这种形象。“这是对深闺制度(purdah)的一种新认识，透露了强烈的女性气息，”35岁的库尔休姆·海伊(Kulsume Hai)在周日晚上看了节目后说。深闺制度是一项将女性遮掩起来以避免和非近亲男性发生接触的传统。“在这里，布尔卡是一种力量的象征，与软弱无关，”海伊还说。“它就是要告诉人们，身着布尔卡的女人也可以很强悍。”
Each of the 13 episodes “ends with a positive message,” said Mr. Rashid. But, he admitted, given that the heroine is a schoolteacher, the message most often comes down to supporting education. “It says, ‘It is your right to be educated, whether you are a girl or a boy. Don’t let anybody take that right away from you.’ ”
全部13集动画片“最终释放了一种积极的信号”，拉希德说。但是他也承认，既然女英雄是一名教师，多数时候它传达的是支持教育的信号。“它说的是，‘受教育是你的权利，不管你是女孩还是男孩。不要让任何人夺走你的权利。’”