A woman’s cancer risk appears to increase with her height, a new study shows.
一项新研究显示，女性罹患癌症的风险似乎随其身高而增加。
An analysis of 20,928 postmenopausal women showed that the taller a woman is, the greater her risk for a number of cancers, including breast, colon and skin cancer, among others. The finding, published in Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention, is not expected to change screening recommendations and shouldn’t alarm those with a tall stature. Instead, say scientists, the association between height and cancer may help guide researchers to study hormones and growth factors that influence height and may also play a role in cancer.
这项研究分析了20928名绝经女性，结果显示，长得越高的女性，罹患某些癌症的风险越大，其中包括乳癌、结肠癌和皮肤癌等。研究结果发表在了《癌流行病学、生物标记与预防》(Cancer Epidemiology, Biomarkers & Prevention)期刊上。相关结果预计不会更改癌症筛检的建议，也不应让高个子女性惊慌。科学家们表示，身高与癌症之间的联系可能有助于指导科研人员研究某些荷尔蒙和生长因子，它们对身高有影响，同时可能对癌症起到一定作用。
“We know that cancer is a disease in which hormones and growth factors modify things,” said Geoffrey C. Kabat, a senior epidemiologist in the department of epidemiology and population health at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in New York. “Height itself is not a risk factor, but it really appears to be a marker for one or more exposures that influence cancer risk.”
杰弗里·C·卡巴特(Geoffrey C. Kabat)是纽约叶史瓦大学阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦医学院(Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University)的流行病学与人口健康系的高级流行病学家，他说，“我们知道，在癌症这种疾病里，荷尔蒙和生长因子能起到一定作用。身高本身并不是风险因素，但它的确看起来是一种标志，表明存在一种或多种影响癌症风险的因素。”
Nobody really knows why cancer risk is associated with a taller stature. It may have to do with hormones and growth factors that spur both height and cancer cells. It may be that height simply increases the surface area of the body’s organs, resulting in a greater number of overall cells and higher subsequent risk of malignancy.
无人确切地知道癌症风险为何与身高有关。这可能事关同时促进身高和癌细胞生长的荷尔蒙及生长因子，也可能就是因为长得高会增加人体器官的表面积，从而导致较多的细胞总量，继而产生较高的癌变风险。
While the current study focused only on women, other research has also found an association between height and cancer among men. One study  found that taller men were at slightly higher risk for aggressive prostate cancer. In May, the Journal of the National Cancer Institute reported that height differences between men and women may help explain why men have an overall greater risk of developing cancer in non-sex specific organs like kidneys and lungs.  That study, of 65,000 men and women, showed that sex differences in height may explain a third to a half of a man’s excess cancer risk compared to women.
尽管本项研究仅关注女性，但其他一些研究发现，男性的身高与癌症之间也有联系。其中一项研究显示，高个男性罹患恶性前列腺癌的风险略高。今年5月，《国家癌症研究所杂志》(Journal of the National Cancer Institute)上发表的文章称，男性与女性的身高差异可能有助于解释，为何男性整体上罹患普通器官癌症（如肾癌和肺癌等）的风险更大。这项研究分析了共6.5万名男性和女性，结果显示，男性比女性高出的癌症风险中，三分之一到一半或许可以用身高的性别差异来解释。
Height can be influenced by a number of factors beyond genetics. The amount and type of foods consumed in childhood can influence height, and childhood nutrition may also play some role in cancer risk. A higher circulating level of a protein called insulin-like growth factor, which can be influenced by factors like exercise, stress, body mass index and nutrition, is also associated with both increased height and an increased cancer risk.
除了基因，身高还会受到多个因素的影响。童年消耗的食物量及种类可以影响身高，而童年的营养也对癌症风险起到一定的作用。有一种名为“类胰岛素生长因子”的蛋白质，其循环水平受到锻炼、压力和体块指数的影响。较高的循环水平同时与身长和癌症风险的增加有关。
The data for the latest analysis were collected from the Women’s Health Initiative, the largest-ever study of postmenopausal women. The researchers identified 20,928 women who had received a cancer diagnosis during the 12-year study period. The data set included not only the woman’s height but also her age, weight, education, smoking habits, alcohol consumption and whether she used hormone therapy. This allowed the scientists to control for other factors that could influence cancer risk and more closely determine the strength of the association with height.
前述最新研究的数据由“女性健康行动”(Women’s Health Initiative)采集，这是迄今为止针对绝经女性的最大规模研究项目。科研人员在12年的研究期内找到被诊断患有癌症的20928名女性。采集的数据集中不仅包括女性的身高，还有她们的年龄、体重、教育背景、吸烟习惯、酒精摄入量，以及是否采用荷尔蒙疗法。这让科学家能够控制可能影响癌症风险的其他因子，从而更严格地确认癌症与身高之间的关系的密切程度。
They found that for every 4-inch change in height, there was a 13 percent increase in risk for developing any type of cancer. The cancers most strongly associated with height were cancers of the kidney, rectum, thyroid and blood. Risk for those cancers increased by 23 to 29 percent for every 4-inch increase in height.
他们发现，身长每增高4英寸（约合10厘米），患任意一种癌症的风险就增大13%。与身高联系最紧密的癌症是肾癌、直肠癌、甲状腺癌和白血病。每增高4英寸，患这些癌症的风险会增大23%到29%。