WASHINGTON — President Trump has invited Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia to visit the White House in September despite Mr. Najib’s involvement in a billion-dollar corruption scandal.
华盛顿——特朗普总统邀请马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)9月访问白宫，尽管后者身陷一场十亿美元的腐败丑闻。
The White House said in a statement on Wednesday that the visit was intended to “strengthen and broaden our bilateral relationship and expand regional cooperation with one of America’s closest partners in Southeast Asia.”
白宫于周三发表声明，表示此次访问旨在“强化和拓展双边关系，扩大与美国在东南亚最亲密的合作伙伴之一的地区合作。”
The invitation represents a significant boost to Mr. Najib’s international standing and is likely to put to rest rumors in Malaysia that he would be arrested the next time he stepped on American soil. In July, the Justice Department filed a civil complaint in a money-laundering case outlining how Mr. Najib, identified as “Malaysian Official 1,” received $731 million from a government fund he oversaw. Investigators around the world are tracking the money trail to his bank accounts in what has become a billion-dollar scandal.
此次邀请将显著地提升纳吉布的国际地位，也可能平息马来西亚国内有关他将在下次踏上美国领土时被逮捕的传言。今年7月，美国司法部对一桩洗钱案件发起民事起诉，概述了纳吉布，即“马来西亚一号官员”如何从其负责监管的政府基金中收取7.31亿美元。世界各地的调查人员通过追踪汇入其银行账户的资金，发现了一起涉及十亿美金的丑闻。
Critics say the visit, scheduled for Sept. 12, also demonstrates that the Trump administration places concerns about corruption well behind other issues. Mr. Najib is yet another visitor to the Trump White House with a history of suppressing free speech and intimidating the political opposition, said Robert G. Berschinski of the advocacy group Human Rights First.
批评称，此次定于9月13日的访问也显示出，特朗普政府认为贪腐问题的重要性不及其他事宜。倡导组织“人权第一”(Human Rights First)的罗伯特·G·博斯钦斯基(Robert G. Berschinski)指出，在特朗普的白宫访客中，纳吉布并不是唯一一个有压迫言论自由和恐吓政治反对势力历史的人。
The invitation is “just another sign that this White House pays only lip service — if that — to the idea that promoting human rights or fighting corruption redounds to the benefit of the United States,” he said.
此次邀请是“另一个迹象，表明这届白宫对人权事业和打击腐败符合美国利益的信念只是口惠而实不至，”他说。
Since abandoning the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade deal that would have tied together a dozen nations and 40 percent of the world’s economy, the Trump administration has been casting about for ways to regain its lost clout in Southeast Asia, a region increasingly dominated by China.
自从美国退出跨太平洋伙伴关系协定（Trans-Pacific Partnership，简称TPP）——一份将12个国家绑在一起、覆盖全球经济比重40%的贸易协议——以来，特朗普政府一直在寻找办法，试图重拾在东南亚地区失去的影响力。如今，中国在该地区的影响力正不断增强。
When Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson visited this month to attend a meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, he confronted a resurgent China everywhere he went. Without the trade deal, Mr. Tillerson had little to offer to counter China.
美国国务卿雷克斯·蒂勒森(Rex W. Tillerson)本月参加了在东南亚国家联盟（Association of Southeast Asian Nations，简称东盟）会议，他发现无论走到何处，都需要面对一个复兴的中国。没有TPP贸易协议，蒂勒森基本没有任何对抗中国的资本。
So instead, the Trump administration has tempered longtime American criticism of poor human rights records or corruption allegations as it seeks to advance its interests in the region. Mr. Tillerson visited President Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines, who has been accused of encouraging thousands of killings by the police. Mr. Duterte said after the meeting that Mr. Tillerson had “considerably toned down” American criticism of the Philippine drug war, a charge Mr. Tillerson’s spokesman later denied. Mr. Tillerson then visited Thailand despite a 2014 coup by the country’s military.
因此，特朗普政府为了寻求推进在该地区的利益，缓和了美国长期以来对该地区不良人权记录的批评和对腐败的指控。蒂勒森与菲律宾总统罗德里戈·杜特地(Rodrigo Duterte)会面，后者被控鼓励警察屠杀了数千人。两人会面后，杜特地表示，蒂勒森“大力缓和了”美国对菲律宾反毒战争的批评。蒂勒森的发言人后来否定了这个说法。随后，蒂勒森又访问了泰国，虽然那里曾在2014年发生过军事政变。
Elina Noor, of the Institute of Strategic and International Studies Malaysia, said Mr. Najib’s visit to the White House “would underline Najib’s stature as a respected leader and statesman warmly welcomed in the United States at the highest level, simultaneously quashing controversial allegations against him.”
马来西亚战略与国际事务研究所的埃利娜·努尔(Elina Noor)表示，纳吉布的白宫之行将“突显纳吉布的地位，作为一位备受尊重的领袖和政治家在美国受到白宫最高级别的热烈欢迎，同时也将平息针对他的争议颇多的指控”。
Malaysia was part of the Trans-Pacific accord, but Mr. Najib has more recently expressed skepticism about joining the trade pact without the United States — a position bound to endear him to Mr. Trump.
马来西亚此前也加入了跨太平洋伙伴关系协定，但纳吉布近期开始质疑，是否应在美国缺席的情况下，加入该协议。他的这种立场势必会受到特朗普总统的青睐。
Over the years, Mr. Najib has been accused of having ties to a murder, taking kickbacks from the purchase of military hardware and helping concoct a criminal prosecution against a rival.
多年来，纳吉布总理一直被指控涉嫌一起谋杀案，从军事装备采购中收取回扣、参与编造对一位竞争对手的刑事指控。
But he is expected to easily win re-election in 2018 and is considered an important partner to the United States in the region.
但他仍被认为将在2018年的大选中轻松赢得连任，他也被视为美国在该地区的重要合作伙伴。