Created in 1909, Queens Plaza in Long Island City was intended as an attractive gateway to the borough for which it was named. But in more recent decades it became known as a haven for drug-dealing and prostitution and as a filthy, noisy eyesore where pedestrians risked their lives as they tried to cope with multiple lanes of traffic.
长岛市的皇后广场(Queens Plaza)始建于1909年，得名于其所在地——皇后区。广场最初的定位，是要成为区内一处吸引客流的门户。但是近年来，这里已成为毒品交易和卖淫活动的温床；环境污浊、嘈杂，令人嫌恶；车道多，车流量大，行人无不是冒着生命危险穿越马路。
But Queens Plaza — just across the Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge from Manhattan — has recently undergone a $45 million face-lift, shepherded by the city department of planning and financed mainly with federal funds.
不过，这片从曼哈顿穿过郭德华皇后区大桥(Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge)即可到达的皇后广场，日前已在城市规划部门的领导下改头换面，工程耗资4500万美元（约合人民币2.7亿元），经费主要来源于联邦基金。
Streetscape improvements extending from Northern Boulevard to 21st Street include new crosswalks, bike paths, sidewalks, a pedestrian walkway, timed traffic signals and a 1.5-acre park at the eastern end, which replaced a commuter parking lot. The long-neglected salmon-colored elevated subway train trestles have been repainted a less conspicuous dark green.
从北方大道(Northern Boulevard)到21街的街景都得到了改善，新设了多条人行横道、自行车道和人行道，修筑了一条人行天桥，安装了定时红绿灯，东端还修造了一座1.5英亩（约合6070平方米）的公园，取代了原本的通勤停车场。至于长期被人忽视的橙红色高架地铁铁路桥，则被重新漆成了不那么显眼的深绿色。
These changes — part of a long-term effort to capitalize on Long Island City’s proximity to Manhattan and abundant subway connections — are paying off, most notably in the development of new apartment buildings and hotels.
这些改变的背后，是一场旨在利用长岛市区域优势的攻坚战。长岛市的优势在于靠近曼哈顿，且地铁四通八达。目前，上述改变正在取得收效，最显著的地方在于新公寓楼和酒店的开发。
Since 2001, when a 37-block area of low-slung buildings was rezoned to allow high-rises, more than 5,000 apartments have been added or are about to be — nearly half of them within two blocks of Queens Plaza, city officials said. Eight subway lines stop either above or below the plaza.
据市政府官员称，2001年，37个低矮的建筑街区被重新划分，以便建造高楼大厦。自那以后，超过5000套新公寓进入市场或正在筹建——其中近半数在距皇后广场两个街区的范围内。有八条地铁线架设到了广场的上方或地下。
Two hotels — a 16-story Hilton Garden Inn with 183 rooms and a 31-story Marriott with 160 rooms and 135 rental apartments — are under construction right along the new park, known as Dutch Kills Green. Situated near the intersection of Queens Boulevard and Northern Boulevard, the park has nearly 500 trees, a wetlands area and pavers that were designed to direct storm water to a variety of native plants, said the lead designer, Margie Ruddick, a landscape architect in Philadelphia.
两家酒店正在动工，一家是希尔顿花园酒店(Hilton Garden Inn)，共有16层、183间客房；另一家是万豪酒店(Marriott)，共有31层、160间客房、135套出租公寓。两座酒店的正后方，就是称为Dutch Kills Green的新建公园。公园的首席设计师是来自费城(Philadelphia)的园林建筑师玛吉·鲁迪克(Margie Ruddick)。她说，Dutch Kills Green位于皇后大道(Queens Boulevard)和北方大道的交叉口附近，园内种植了将近500棵树，还有一片湿地，铺路石经过特殊设计，一旦天降暴雨，石子可将雨水引流，浇灌各类原生植物。
“We wanted to make it a real refuge — not an urban edgy thing but a place where people would feel comfortable, a place that could become a neighborhood park, which it is,” said Ms. Ruddick, whose projects include the park at Battery Park City. On a recent wintry day, several people were sitting on park benches checking their smartphones, oblivious to the cold air and the screeching trains. The plaza will never be a quiet oasis, but Ms. Ruddick said the trees and the park’s three-foot elevation next to the roadway help to buffer some of the noise.
“我们想把它变成一座真正的世外桃源——不是那种令人神经紧绷的都市建筑，而是一座令人舒适的、名副其实的社区公园，”鲁迪克说。她的代表作包括巴特里公园城(Battery Park City)的公园。在最近一个寒冷的日子里，有好几个人坐在公园长椅上看手机，全然忘记了周围刺骨的寒风和列车的轰鸣。这座广场永远不会成为安静的绿洲，但是鲁迪克说，由于栽种了树木，加上公园的地面比毗邻的街道高出三英尺（约合0.9米），噪音会有所减弱。
David van der Leer, the executive director of the Van Alen Institute, a nonprofit architectural organization that helped sponsor a design competition for Queens Plaza in 2001, said: “It’s very important to create a calm environment. It feels like a much more hospitable place.”
2001年，非盈利建筑机构凡艾伦研究所(Van Alen Institute)为皇后广场发起了一场设计竞赛。研究所的执行理事戴维·范·德·里尔(David van der Leer)说：“营造一个清静的环境非常重要。这样的地方给人的感觉要宜居得多。”
Although Queens Plaza has succeeded in luring residential and hotel projects, it has been slower to attract new office buildings. Turning Long Island City into a central business district to rival Jersey City was a Bloomberg administration goal, but brokers who specialize in commercial real estate say that a significant influx of office tenants is still years away. “It’s been more of a trickle than a flood,” said John Reinertsen, a senior vice president at the brokerage firm CBRE, who is based in Long Island City.
尽管皇后广场成功吸引了住宅和酒店开发项目，但在吸引写字楼落户的问题上却进展迟缓。将长岛市打造成堪与泽西市(Jersey City)匹敌的中央商务区，曾经是布隆伯格(Bloomberg)政府的目标。但据专做商业地产的经纪人说，办公间租户大量涌入的日子还很遥远。“目前办公间租户的入驻情形，只能算是涓涓细流，而非滔滔洪流。”房产经纪公司世邦魏理仕(CBRE)在长岛市的高级副总裁约翰·赖纳特森(John Reinertsen)说。
The mayor’s administration suffered a setback in 2006, when the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company announced plans to move two-thirds of its employees back to Manhattan from the Brewster Building on Queens Plaza North. Only five years earlier, the insurance giant had made a heavily subsidized deal to relocate to Queens, but company officials said employees were unhappy about the absence of restaurants and the distance from Manhattan.
布隆伯格政府的计划在2006年遇到了挫折。当时，大都会人寿保险公司(Metropolitan Life Insurance Company)宣布，拟将三分之二的员工从皇后广场北的布鲁斯特大楼(Brewster Building)迁回曼哈顿。短短五年前，这个保险巨头达成一笔补贴丰厚的交易，迁到了皇后区。但是公司高管表示，新址周边缺少餐饮，而且距离曼哈顿较远，引起了员工的不满。
Just as Dutch Kills Green was completed in 2012, however, JetBlue opened a 200,000-square-foot headquarters in the Brewster Building, a former airplane assembly plant. JetBlue is subleasing space from MetLife, which still has a presence in the building. Last year, MetLife acquired another subtenant, the advertising and public relations firm Publicis.
不过，就在Dutch Kills Green公园2012年建成之际，捷蓝航空(JetBlue)在原为其飞机装配厂的布鲁斯特大楼开设了总部，占地面积200000平方英尺（约合18581平方米）。捷蓝航空是从大都会人寿转租的办公空间，后者目前仍是大楼租户。去年，大都会人寿又找到了一家转租者——广告公关公司阳狮集团(Publicis)。
Kenneth A. Siegel, the Jones Lang LaSalle broker who represented MetLife in the sublease deals, said the city’s decision to spruce up Queens Plaza and the area around it, including nearby Jackson Avenue, was an important factor in JetBlue’s move. “As we would go around the neighborhood, we would see some commitment to improving it; it was not like this was a forgotten zone,” Mr. Siegel said. “The park and these other things made a difference in how they looked at the area.”
仲量联行(Jones Lang LaSalle)的经纪人肯尼斯·A·西格尔(Kenneth A. Siegel)代表大都会人寿打理了这笔转租交易。他说，捷蓝航空之所以迁址，一个很重要的原因是市政府决定美化皇后广场及周边区域，包括附近的杰克逊大道(Jackson Avenue)。“我们只要在社区周围转一转，就能看出，市政府是下了决心要改善这里；这里给人的感觉不再像是一个被遗忘的角落了，”西格尔说，“公园等新建设施使人们对这片地区的看法得到了改观。”
Mr. Reinertsen said Tishman Speyer, the New York-based developer, had to work hard to find a tenant for its new glassy 22-story tower on Queens Plaza South, known as 2 Gotham Center.
赖纳特森说，纽约开发商铁狮门(Tishman Speyer)在皇后广场南建造了一座22层的玻璃幕墙大厦，称为2 Gotham Center。大厦落成时，该公司不得不牟足了劲寻找租户。
Now fully leased to the city Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, the building was sold in 2011 for $415.5 million to H&R REIT, a Canadian real estate investment trust. The tower was intended as the first phase of a 1.5-million-square-feet commercial complex to replace the decrepit Queens Plaza Municipal Parking Garage, but Tishman Speyer, which controls the rest of the site, has not disclosed any plans for it and declined to be interviewed. Mr. Reinertsen said rents would have to reach at least $45 a square foot for an office project to be economically viable. (Tenants pay around $35 a foot at the Brewster Building, brokers said.)
而如今，这栋楼全部租给了纽约市健康与心理卫生局(Department of Health and Mental Hygiene)。2011年，大楼以4.155亿美元（约合人民币25.2亿元）的价格卖给了加拿大房地产投资信托基金H&R REIT。其最初的定位是一个150万平方英尺（约合14万平方米）的商业建筑群的一期工程，用以取代年久失修的皇后广场公共停车场。作为Gotham Center其余楼盘的掌控者，铁狮门尚未透露关于此处用地的任何开发计划，也谢绝了采访。赖特纳森表示，一个写字楼项目要想在经济上可行，房租至少要达到每平方英尺45美元（约合每平方米人民币3031元）。经纪人透露，布鲁斯特大楼的租户支付的房租在每平方英尺35美元（约合每平方米人民币2358元）左右。
Mr. Reinertsen said the neighborhood lost one of its best incentives when the Relocation and Employment Assistance Program (REAP) program expired last summer. Under this program, a tenant could get 12 years of tax credits worth up to $3,000 per employee.
赖特纳森表示，自从搬迁和就业援助计划（Relocation and Employment Assistance Program，简称REAP）于去年失效后，此社区就失去了一项最重要的激励机制。在REAP计划下，租户可享有12年的税收抵免，抵免额为每名员工3000美元（约合人民币18187元）。
Though not yet an office mecca, Long Island City has experienced a boom in hotel construction. More than a dozen hotels have been developed near Queens Plaza, which is only one subway stop from 59th Street and Lexington Avenue in Manhattan, and others are coming. A groundbreaking was held last month at Crescent Street and 42nd Road for a new 11-story Crowne Plaza, with 224 rooms.
长岛市虽然不是写字楼的圣地，却已掀起酒店建设的热潮。超过十二家酒店已落户皇后广场附近，后者距曼哈顿的59街和列克星敦大道(Lexington Avenue)仅一站地铁之遥，更多的酒店还在筹建中。上个月（指2013年12月——译注），新月街(Crescent street)近第42街的路段举行了一场奠基仪式，11层的皇冠假日酒店(Crowne Plaza)破土动工，共有224间客房。
“Most of it really is there as a price alternative to Manhattan,” said John A. Fox, a senior vice president at PKF Consulting, which specializes in hotels. He said that nightly rates are $50 to $100 less than Manhattan hotels of similar quality.
约翰·A·福克斯(John A. Fox)是专业从事酒店业务的PKF Consulting的高级副总裁，他说：“说实在的，这里的酒店大多都是曼哈顿酒店的平价替代品。”他说，这里每晚的房费比曼哈顿同等级别的酒店要便宜50到100美元（约合人民币303元到606元）。
Adrian Kurre, the global head of Hilton Garden Inns, said the new hotel at Queens Plaza North would cater to middle-management business travelers, with the new park serving as a “calling card” to attract them. “Everybody’s feeling really good about the supply-and-demand metrics for that market,” he said.
希尔顿花园酒店的全球总监阿德里安·库雷(Adrian Kurre)说，在皇后广场北新开的分店，将面向商务旅客中的中层管理者，而新建的公园将成为一张吸引客流的“名片”。“每个人都对那里的市场供求趋势非常满意，”他说。
Residential developers are also upbeat about the prospects for Queens Plaza and its vicinity, where new buildings offer sweeping views of Manhattan and are equipped with amenities like movie screening and fitness rooms. A new 27-story building on 42nd Road and 27th Street, called 27 on 27th, was fully leased when tenants began moving in last March, said Douglas Patrick, an owner of Heatherwood Communities of Islandia, N.Y., the building’s developer. Annual rents are about $45 a square foot, much lower than similar units in Manhattan, said Mr. Patrick, who expects to begin construction soon of another high-rise rental building on 28th Street.
住宅开发商也非常看好皇后广场及周边地区的前景，新建的住宅楼不仅能饱览曼哈顿的景观，还配有电影放映室、健身房等设施。在第42路靠近第27街的路段，有一座新建的27层大楼，称作“27 on 27th”，开发商是纽约州伊斯兰迪亚(Islandia)的一家名为Heatherwood Communities的公司。公司所有者之一道格拉斯·帕特里克(Douglas Patrick)称，在去年三月租户开始入住时，大楼里的所有住宅就已全部租出了。年租金约为每平方英尺45美元（约合每平方米3031元），比曼哈顿同等级别的住宅单元要低得多。帕特里克打算不久后在第28街再建一座高层住宅楼用于出租。
Though residents now have to travel to buy groceries and other goods, more stores are likely to open once the neighborhood’s population reaches a critical mass. A Foodcellar market will open this year at the new 42-story Linc LIC apartment building, at 43rd and Crescent Streets, in nearby Court Square, said the landlord, Justin Elghanayan, the president of Rockrose Development Corporation. Rockrose will eventually have four apartment buildings between Court Square and Queens Plaza.
虽然说，居民现在要想采购副食品之类的杂货，还得走很远的路；但是一旦社区人口达到临界值，更多商户很可能就会落户开张。在附近的科特广场(Court Square)有一座名为Linc LIC的新建42层公寓楼，位于新月街路段。其开发商Rockrose Development Corporation在科特广场和皇后广场之间开发的公寓楼数量，最终将达到四座。公司总裁贾斯汀·埃勒加尼安(Justin Elghanayan)透露，食品超市Foodcellar今年会在楼内新开一家门店。
Mr. Elghanayan said Queens Plaza showed that even relatively modest changes that were not “utterly transformative” could have an impact. “They have laid out the canvas that all these developments are going to be painted on,” he said.
埃勒加尼安表示，皇后广场的例子证明，即使是相对微小的改变而非“彻底的改头换面”，也能为一个地区带来影响。“他们就像展开了一幅画布，而所有这些开发项目都将被绘制上去，”他说。