ONE bright morning this month, 400 protesters smashed down the high fences surrounding a field in the Bicol region of the Philippines and uprooted the genetically modified rice plants growing inside.
本月一个晴朗的早晨，在菲律宾比科尔地区，400名抗议者推倒了一片农田四周高高的围栏，将田里种植的转基因禾苗连根拔起。
Had the plants survived long enough to flower, they would have betrayed a distinctly yellow tint in the otherwise white part of the grain. That is because the rice is endowed with a gene from corn and another from a bacterium, making it the only variety in existence to produce beta carotene, the source of vitamin A. Its developers call it “Golden Rice.”
这些禾苗若能长到开花时节，在一般谷物颗粒呈现白色的部分，它们会出现显眼的黄色。这是因为作物中加入了来自玉米及一种细菌的基因，使得它成为同类中仅有的可以产生β-胡萝卜素的品种。β-胡萝卜素是维生素A的来源。开发人员把它称为“黄金大米”(Golden Rice)。
The concerns voiced by the participants in the Aug. 8 act of vandalism — that Golden Rice could pose unforeseen risks to human health and the environment, that it would ultimately profit big agrochemical companies — are a familiar refrain in the long-running controversy over the merits of genetically engineered crops. They are driving the desire among some Americans for mandatory “G.M.O.” labels on food with ingredients made from crops whose DNA has been altered in a laboratory. And they have motivated similar attacks on trials of other genetically modified crops in recent years: grapes designed to fight off a deadly virus in France, wheat designed to have a lower glycemic index in Australia, sugar beets in Oregon designed to tolerate a herbicide, to name a few.
8月8日这场破坏行动的参与者们担心的是，黄金大米可能对人体健康和环境产生不可预知的风险，而最终只会让大型农用化工企业受益。这也正是长期以来的转基因农作物利弊争议中的一种常见的抱怨。为此，一些美国人提出，如果食品中有成分来自经实验室进行DNA调整的农作物，那么必须标注“转基因”(GMO)。这些担忧还在近几年引发了其他针对转基因农作物试验田的类似袭击。这些农作物包括，法国开发的一种可抗致死性植物病毒的葡萄、澳大利亚的一种血糖生成指数较低的小麦，及美国俄勒冈州培育的可抗除草剂的甜菜。
“We do not want our people, especially our children, to be used in these experiments,” a farmer who was a leader of the protest told the Philippine newspaper Remate.
“我们不希望自己，特别是我们的孩子被用来做试验，”一个牵头抗议的务农者告诉菲律宾的报纸Remate。
But Golden Rice, which appeared on the cover of Time Magazine in 2000 before it was quite ready for prime time, is unlike any of the genetically engineered crops in wide use today, designed to either withstand herbicides sold by Monsanto and other chemical companies or resist insect attacks, with benefits for farmers but not directly for consumers.
但是，还未进入推广阶段就在2000年登上《时代》周刊(Time Magazine)封面的黄金大米和目前广泛使用的其他转基因农作物不同。那些农作物或是能抵抗孟山都(Monsanto)和其他化学品公司出售的除草剂，或能抗虫害，这些特性对农民有益，对消费者并无直接益处。
And a looming decision by the Philippine government about whether to allow Golden Rice to be grown beyond its four remaining field trials has added a new dimension to the debate over the technology’s merits.
目前，菲律宾政府即将就是否允许黄金大米在剩下四块试验田基础上扩大种植规模做出决定，而这又扩展了该项技术利弊讨论的维度。
Not owned by any company, Golden Rice is being developed by a nonprofit group called the International Rice Research Institute with the aim of providing a new source of vitamin A to people both in the Philippines, where most households get most of their calories from rice, and eventually in many other places in a world where rice is eaten every day by half the population. Lack of the vital nutrient causes blindness in a quarter-million to a half-million children each year. It affects millions of people in Asia and Africa and so weakens the immune system that some two million die each year of diseases they would otherwise survive.
黄金大米不属于任何公司，而是由一家非营利组织国际水稻研究所(International Rice Research Institute)研发的，目的是为菲律宾，以及世界其他地区的人们提供一种新的维生素A来源。菲律宾多数家庭从米饭中摄取大部分热量，而世界上还有很多其他地区有一半人口每天以米饭为主食。每年，关键营养物质的缺乏造成25万至50万名儿童失明。亚洲及非洲有几百万人受到影响。这种营养不良还会损害免疫系统，以至于每年有200万人死于本不应致命的疾病。
The destruction of the field trial, and the reasons given for it, touched a nerve among scientists around the world, spurring them to counter assertions of the technology’s health and environmental risks. On a petition supporting Golden Rice circulated among scientists and signed by several thousand, many vented a simmering frustration with activist organizations like Greenpeace, which they see as playing on misplaced fears of genetic engineering in both the developing and the developed worlds. Some took to other channels to convey to American foodies and Filipino farmers alike the broad scientific consensus that G.M.O.’s are not intrinsically more risky than other crops and can be reliably tested. 
对试验田的破坏以及该行动背后的理由让世界各地的科学家群情激奋，他们开始反驳这种转基因技术损害健康和环境的说法。在数千名科学家签名支持的黄金大米请愿书上，科学家们对于如绿色和平组织(Greenpeace)这类倡导组织表示出了极大愤慨。在他们看来，这些组织同时在发展中国家和发达国家利用了人们对于转基因的不当恐惧。还有一些科学家则利用其它渠道向美国美食爱好者和菲律宾务农者传达对于转基因农作物的广泛科学共识，那就是转基因农作物本质上并不比其它农作物更具危害性，这是可以通过可靠测试来验证的。
At stake, they say, is not just the future of biofortified rice but also a rational means to evaluate a technology whose potential to improve nutrition in developing countries, and developed ones, may otherwise go unrealized.
他们认为，这不仅与强化水稻的未来休戚相关，更关乎这项技术是否可以得到合理评估，而该技术存在提高发达国家和发展中国家营养水平的可能性。
“There’s so much misinformation floating around about G.M.O.’s that is taken as fact by people,” said Michael D. Purugganan, a professor of genomics and biology and the dean for science at New York University, who sought to calm health-risk concerns in a primer on GMA News Online, a media outlet in the Philippines: “The genes they inserted to make the vitamin are not some weird manufactured material,” he wrote, “but are also found in squash, carrots and melons.” 
“关于转基因农作物，有太多的错误信息被人们当作事实，”纽约大学(New York University)自然科学学院院长、基因及生物学教授迈克尔·D·普鲁加南(Michael D. Purugganan)说。为消除人们对于健康威胁的担心，他为菲律宾媒体机构GMA 在线新闻(GMA News Online)的科普栏目撰文：“添加的可生成维生素的基因并不是什么人工生产的奇怪物质，”他写道，“胡萝卜、倭瓜和其他瓜类作物中都有同样的基因。”
Mr. Purugganan, who studies plant evolution, does not work on genetically engineered crops, and until recently had not participated in the public debates over the risks and benefits of G.M.O.’s. But having been raised in a middle-class family in Manila, he felt compelled to weigh in on Golden Rice. “A lot of the criticism of G.M.O.’s in the Western world suffers from a lack of understanding of how really dire the situation is in developing countries,” he said.
普鲁加南研究的是植物进化，并不从事转基因农作物研究，之前也从未参与过关于转基因作物利弊的公众讨论。但成长于马尼拉中产阶级家庭的他感到，必须要就黄金大米发表意见。“西方世界之所以批评转基因作物，主要是由于他们不了解发展中国家的情况有多么糟糕，”他说。
Some proponents of G.M.O.’s say that more critical questions, like where biotechnology should fall as a priority in the efforts to address the root causes of hunger and malnutrition and how to prevent a few companies from controlling it, would be easier to address were they not lumped together with unfounded fears by those who oppose G.M.O.’s.
一些转基因作物的拥护者认为，若不是被反对者出于毫无根据的恐惧混为一谈，很多更重要的问题更容易得到解决，如在彻底解决饥饿和营养不良问题的进程中，生物科技应该占有何等的优先地位，以及如何避免相关技术被少数公司所垄断。
“It is long past time for scientists to stand up and shout, ‘No more lies — no more fear-mongering,’ ” said Nina V. Fedoroff, a professor at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology in Saudi Arabia, who helped spearhead the petition. “We’re talking about saving millions of lives here.”
“科学家该站起来呐喊了，‘不要再散布谎言，不要再散布恐惧，’发起请愿的沙特阿拉伯阿卜杜拉国王科技大学(King Abdullah University of Science and Technology)教授尼娜·V·费德洛罗夫(Nina V. Fedoroff)说。“我们说的是挽救数百万人生命的问题。”
Precisely because of its seemingly high-minded purpose, Golden Rice has drawn suspicion from biotechnology skeptics beyond the demonstrators who forced their way into the field trial. Many countries ban the cultivation of all genetically modified crops, and after the rice’s media debut early in the last decade, Vandana Shiva, an Indian environmentalist, called it a “Trojan horse” whose purpose was to gain public support for all manner of genetically modified crops that would benefit multinational corporations at the expense of poor farmers and consumers.
正是由于这种看似高尚的意图，质疑黄金大米的生物技术怀疑论者超出了强行破坏田间试验的抗议人士的范畴。许多国家禁止培育任何转基因作物。黄金大米在21世纪初首次见诸媒体后，印度的环保主义者凡丹娜·娷瓦(Vandana Shiva)称之为“特洛伊木马”，目的是为所有的转基因作物赢得公众支持，而这种作物将以牺牲贫穷的务农者和消费者为代价来为跨国企业牟利。
In a 2001 article, “The Great Yellow Hype,” the author Michael Pollan, a critic of industrial agriculture, suggested that it might have been developed to “win an argument rather than solve a public-health problem.” He cited biotechnology industry advertisements that featured the virtues of the rice, which at the time had to be ingested in large quantities to deliver a meaningful dose of vitamin A.
2011年，对农业产业化持批评态度的迈克尔·普兰(Michael Pollan)撰写了一篇名为《黄金大谎》(The Great Yellow Hype)的文章。文中认为，黄金大米的研发也许是为了“赢得辩论，而不是为了解决公共健康问题”。他援引的例子是生物技术业打广告的时候突出这种大米的优点，而要想其中的维生素A达到起作用的剂量，得摄取巨量的大米。
But the rice has since been retooled: a bowl now provides 60 percent of the daily requirement of vitamin A for healthy children. And Gerard Barry, the Golden Rice project leader at the International Rice Research Institute — and, it must be said, a former senior scientist and executive at Monsanto — suggests that attempts to discredit Golden Rice discount the suffering it could alleviate if successful. He said, too, that critics who suggest encouraging poor families to simply eat fruits and vegetables that contain beta carotene disregard the expense and logistical difficulties that would thwart such efforts.
不过，黄金大米后来经过了改良：现如今，一碗大米足以提供健康儿童每日所需的维生素A摄入量的60%。杰拉尔德·巴里(Gerard Barry)是国际水稻研究所的黄金大米项目负责人。必须说明，他曾在孟山都公司任高级科学研究员兼管理人员。他指出，黄金大米如果成功，本可以缓解诸多疾苦，而破坏其名声的作为是对这些问题视而不见。有些批评人士认为，只需鼓励贫困家庭食用含β-胡萝卜素的蔬果即可。他表示，这些人忽视了实现这一建议所面临的成本与现实困难。
Identified in the infancy of genetic engineering as having the potential for the biggest impact for the world’s poor, beta-carotene-producing rice was initially funded by the Rockefeller Foundation and the European Union. In a decade of work culminating in 1999, two academic scientists, Ingo Potrykus and Peter Beyer, finally switched on the production of beta carotene by adding daffodil and bacteria DNA to the rice’s genome. They licensed their patent rights to the agribusiness company that later became Syngenta, on the condition that the technology and any improvements to it would be made freely available to poor farmers in the developing world. With the company retaining the right to use it in developed countries, potentially as an alternative to vitamin supplements, Syngenta scientists later improved the amount of beta carotene produced by substituting a gene from corn for the one from daffodil.
早在基因工程的起步阶段，能产生β-胡萝卜素的大米就被认定为具有对全世界的穷人产生最大影响的潜力。这种大米的研究一开始受到了洛克菲勒基金会(Rockefeller Foundation)和欧盟(European Union)的资助。经过10年的研究，到1999年，学术界的科学家英戈·波特里库斯(Ingo Potrykus)与彼得·拜尔(Peter Beyer)终于通过把水仙和细菌DNA加入水稻基因的方式成功地产出了β-胡萝卜素。他们将专利权授予了一家农业公司，条件是该技术及其任何改进都应当免费赠予发展中国家的贫穷务农者。这家公司后来成为了先正达(Syngenta)，它保留了在发达国家的专利权，可能将其当作维生素补充剂的替代品推出。后来，先正达的研究者把水仙基因替换为玉米基因，从而改善了β-胡萝卜素的产出量。
If the rice gains the Philippine government’s approval, it will cost no more than other rice for poor farmers, who will be free to save seeds and replant them, Dr. Barry said. It has no known allergens or toxins, and the new proteins produced by the rice have been shown to break down quickly in simulated gastric fluid, as required by World Health Organization guidelines. A mouse feeding study is under way in a laboratory in the United States. The potential that the Golden Rice would cross-pollinate with other varieties, sometimes called “genetic contamination,” has been studied and found to be limited, because rice is typically self-pollinated. And its production of beta carotene does not appear to provide a competitive advantage — or disadvantage — that could affect the survival of wild varieties with which it might mix.
巴里博士称，如果黄金大米获得菲律宾政府的批准，对贫穷的农民而言，将不会比普通大米的成本高，而且他们也可以免费储存种子并多次种植。根据已知的情况，它不含已知的过敏原或毒素；按照世界卫生组织(World Health Organization)的指导原则进行的实验显示，它产生的新蛋白质能在人工胃液中快速分解。美国的一家实验室正在进行一项小鼠喂养实验。黄金大米与其他品种杂交——有时也被称为“基因污染”——的可能性也已得到研究，结果发现，由于水稻是典型的自交作物，这种可能性有限。而且，黄金大米能产生β-胡萝卜素这一点没有显示出对可能混合种植的自然品种的生存具有竞争优势或劣势。
If Golden Rice is a Trojan horse, it now has some company. The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which is supporting the final testing of Golden Rice, is also underwriting the development of crops tailored for sub-Saharan Africa, like cassava that can resist the viruses that routinely wipe out a third of the harvest, bananas that contain higher levels of iron and corn that uses nitrogen more efficiently. Other groups are developing a pest-resistant black-eyed pea and a “Golden Banana” that would also deliver vitamin A.
如果说黄金大米是特洛伊木马，它也不是唯一的例子。比尔及梅琳达·盖茨基金会(Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation)赞助了黄金大米正在进行的最终测试，还在资助专门针对撒哈拉以南非洲地区的一些作物的研究，比如，抗病毒木薯（能抵抗常会导致减产三分之一的病毒）、富含铁元素的香蕉，以及高效利用氮肥的玉米。还有一些组织正在研发抗虫害豇豆和能产生维生素A的“黄金香蕉”。
Beyond the fear of corporate control of agriculture, perhaps the most cited objection to G.M.O.’s is that they may hold risks that may not be understood. The decision to grow or eat them relies, like many other decisions, on a cost-benefit analysis.
除了对大企业控制农业的担忧，最为广泛引用的反对转基因作物的理由或许是，它们可能具有目前尚不为人知的风险。与其他许多决策一样，是否种植或食用它们的决定将取决于成本效益分析。
How food consumers around the world weigh that calculation will probably have far-reaching consequences. Such crops, Scientific American declared in an editorial last week, will make it to people’s plates “only with public support.”
世界各地的粮食消费者如何就此作出衡量，将产生深远的影响。《科学美国人》杂志(Scientific American)在上周的社论中宣称，“只有赢得公众的支持，”此类作物才能出现在人们的餐桌上。
Greenpeace, for one, dismisses the benefits of vitamin supplementation through G.M.O.’s and has said it will continue to oppose all uses of biotechnology in agriculture. As Daniel Ocampo, a campaigner for the organization in the Philippines, put it, “We would rather err on the side of caution.”
绿色和平就对通过转基因作物补充维生素的好处不屑一顾，并宣称将继续反对在农业中使用任何生物技术。该组织菲律宾分部的活动人士丹尼尔·奥坎波(Daniel Ocampo)是这样说的，“我们宁可谨慎过头。”
For others, the potential of crops like Golden Rice to alleviate suffering is all that matters. “This technology can save lives,” one of the petition’s signers, Javier Delgado of Mexico, wrote. “But false fears can destroy it.”
对另外一些人而言，黄金大米等作物缓解疾苦的潜力才是唯一重要的事。在请愿书上联署的墨西哥人哈维尔·德尔加多(Javier Delgado)说，“这项技术可以拯救生命。但错误的担忧会摧毁它。”