If you want to know whether the bread you’re about to buy was sweetened with corn syrup, you can check the label. The same is true if you’re concerned about preservatives, caramel coloring or artificial flavoring. By law, all of these ingredients must be listed on food labels.
如果你想知道你打算购买的这块面包是否使用了玉米糖浆来增加甜味，你可以阅读面包上的食品标签。如果你担心面包里添加了防腐剂、焦糖色素或是人工调味香料，你也可以从标签中找到答案。法律规定，这些成分必须在食品标签上注明。
But not genetically modified organisms, or G.M.O.s. The Food and Drug Administration does not require clear identification and labeling of food products made with genetically engineered plants.
但转基因生物(GMO)却没有包括在内。美国食品与药品管理局（The Food and Drug Administration，简称FDA）目前并没有要求含有转基因农作物的食品必须用标识和标签注明。
Most consumers want that to change. Some 93 percent of respondents to a New York Times survey in January 2013 said they wanted genetically modified ingredients identified, even though only about half said they would avoid G.M.O. products. More than 1.4 million people have signed the Center for Food Safety’s petition urging the federal agency to require G.M.O. labeling. Last weekend, marches were held in dozens of cities to protest the introduction of genetically engineered products by Monsanto and other developers.
大多数消费者想要改变这种状况。《纽约时报》2013年1月的一项调查显示，虽然只有一半的受访者表示，将避开用转基因生物制成的产品，但约93%的受访者表示，希望在标签上写明食品中的转基因成分。目前已经有超过140万人签署了食品安全中心(Center for Food Safety)的请愿书，要求FDA下令，转基因生物制成的食品必须在标签上注明。上周末，几十个城市举行了游行，抗议孟山都(Monsanto)等食品开发商推出转基因食品。
Vermont this month became the first state to require labeling of G.M.O. foods, and Connecticut and Maine have passed similar laws, though they are contingent on other states enacting legislation. Food producers and developers of genetically modified plants and seeds poured millions of dollars into advertising in 2012 to defeat a California initiative requiring G.M.O. labeling, and they are pushing a federal bill that would bar states from requiring labeling. They insist the ingredients are safe and say there is no need for labels.
本月，佛蒙特州成了第一个要求食品标签中注明是否含有转基因生物的州。康涅狄格州和缅因州也通过了类似的法律，不过是否实施要视其他州的情况而定。食品生产商和转基因农作物及种子的开发商在2012年花了数百万美元的广告费，目的就是为了挫败加利福尼亚州一项要求食品标签注明转基因生物成分的计划，此外，他们还正在推动一项联邦法案，将禁止各州要求食品商为转基因食品贴上相关标签。他们坚持认为，转基因成分是安全的，没有标注的必要。
“Labeling space is very limited, and mandatory labeling would create an unnecessary stigma,” said Claire Parker, spokeswoman for the Coalition for Safe Affordable Food, which represents businesses and organizations opposed to G.M.O. labeling. She and other industry representatives point to the F.D.A.’s determination in 1992 that there was no need for mandatory labeling of bioengineered foods because there were no “material” or “meaningful” differences between bioengineered and nonbioengineered foods.
“标签上的空间非常有限，此外，强制标注会为转基因食品带来不必要的污名，”安全经济食品联盟(Coalition for Safe Affordable Food)的发言人克莱尔·帕克(Claire Parker)说。该机构代表了反对在食品标签上注明转基因生物成分的企业和组织。她和其他一些行业代表提到了FDA在1992年的结论，即没有必要强制要求转基因食品的标签上做出相关说明，因为转基因食品和非转基因食品之间没有“实质性”或“有意义”的区别。
Genetically engineered plants contain DNA from other animal or plant species that is intended to give them traits that are considered desirable by the manufacturers. One of the more recent innovations is an apple that does not turn brown after it is sliced. Another is a strawberry that withstands freezing.
转基因农作物含有来自其他动植物品种的DNA，这样做是为了让这些农作物拥有制造商需要的特性。最近的一种新型转基因农作物是在切开之后不会变成褐色的苹果。还有可以冷冻的草莓。
Many of the plants have been engineered to survive being sprayed with weed killers; some even produce their own pesticides.
许多植物在基因改造之后可以抗除草剂；有些转基因植物自身甚至可以产生杀虫剂。
Advocates of labeling point out that the F.D.A. has elaborate disclosure requirements for all kinds of foods. Labels on orange juice, for instance, must inform customers whether it is fresh or made from concentrate, and producers are barred from using the term “juice” if the drink is not 100 percent juice. (Products containing less must be called a “beverage,” “cocktail” or “drink”.)
支持转基因食品标签的人指出，FDA对所有食物都设置了详细的信息披露要求。例如，橙汁上的标签必须告诉消费者，产品是新鲜的，还是用浓缩汁制成的。如果不是100%的纯果汁，生产商禁止使用“果汁”这个词。（果汁含量达不到100%的产品只能叫做“饮料”、“鸡尾酒”或“饮品”。）
The agency even regulates the use of terms like “fresh,” “frozen,” “fresh frozen,” “frozen fresh” and “quickly frozen” on labels for products like peas.
FDA甚至要求，在豌豆等产品的标签上，使用“新鲜”、“冷冻”、“新鲜冷冻”、“冷冻新鲜”和“速冻”等词语进行描述。
“The F.D.A. decided that the difference between fresh peas and frozen peas was a ‘material’ difference to the consumer,” said Jean Halloran, director of food policy initiatives at Consumers Union, which supports labeling of genetically modified foods. “This stuff is as different as frozen peas and nonfrozen peas, if not more so.”
消费者联盟(Consumers Union)的食品政策行动主任琼·哈洛伦(Jean Halloran)支持为转基因食品贴上标签。她说，“FDA认为，新鲜的豌豆和冷冻的豌豆对消费者来说存在‘实质性’差别。而转基因和非转基因的区别，与冻豌豆和鲜豌豆的差别一样大，甚至更大。”
Agency scientists have expressed concerns about new genetically engineered plant products, wondering whether the new plants have the same levels of important nutrients as non-engineered varieties, for instance, and whether they might contain toxins, new allergens or unapproved food additives.
该机构的科学家们表达了对新的转基因农作物产品的担忧，比如，他们怀疑，新农作物中含有的重要营养元素的水平与非转基因农作物是否相同，还有，它们是否可能含有毒素、新的过敏原或未经批准的食品添加剂。
But unlike the approval process required for new drugs and even many food additives like artificial sweeteners, the review process for new G.M.O. plant foods is voluntary. Producers are asked only to consult with the F.D.A. The agency “does not conduct a comprehensive scientific review of data generated by the developer,” according to F.D.A. documents. Officials rely on producers to do their own safety and nutritional assessments, and they review summaries of those assessments.
但与新药品以及人工甜味剂等许多食品添加剂的审批程序不同，新的含有转基因生物的食品的审核是自愿的。制造商只需要与FDA进行协商。FDA的文件显示，“该机构不会对开发商生成的数据进行全面、科学的审核”。官员们需要食品制造商进行自己的安全性和营养评估，而他们只审核这些评估结果的摘要。
“We recognize and appreciate the interest that some consumers have expressed in knowing whether a food was produced using genetic engineering,” said Theresa Eisenman, an F.D.A. spokeswoman. “Food from genetically engineered plants must meet the same requirements, including safety requirements, as foods from traditionally bred plants.”
FDA发言人特雷莎·艾森曼 (Theresa Eisenman)说，“一些消费者表示希望知道食品是否使用转基因技术，我们了解并重视这一权益。转基因作物食品必须达到与传统作物食品同样的要求，包括安全方面的要求。”
It is not clear whether genetically engineered salmon, which is going through a different review process than G.M.O. plants, will be labeled when it gets to market. An agency official said special labeling would only be required if the F.D.A. determines the food differs “materially” from comparable foods — for example, if it has a different nutritional profile.
目前还不清楚转基因三文鱼进入市场后是否会贴上转基因的标签。它的审核过程将与转基因农作物不同。FDA的一名官员说，只有FDA认定该食品与同类食品存在“实质性”区别，例如食品的营养成分不同，才需要进行专门的标注。
Shoppers who want to know whether they’re purchasing genetically engineered foods do have a few options.
不过，对于想要知道自己购买的是否是转基因食品的消费者，也是有一些选择的。
For starters, there is a good chance that any product with soybeans, corn, sugar beets (often used for sweetening) and canola (or canola oil) has G.M.O.s., since genetically modified versions of these crops are so widely planted in the United States.
首先，含有大豆、玉米、甜菜（经常用作甜味剂）和菜籽油的产品非常有可能含有转基因生物，因为这些农作物的转基因品种在美国被广泛种植。
On the other hand, certified organic produce carrying the green and white circular “U.S.D.A. organic” seal cannot be genetically modified, and organic livestock must be fed only organic ingredients. But processed foods with multiple ingredients can be labeled organic if at least 95 percent of the content is organic.
另一方面，印有“U.S.D.A. organic”字样的绿色和白色圆形印章的认证有机食品，肯定不是转基因食品。有机家畜的饲料一定只含有机成分。不过，只要至少有95%的成分是有机的，含有多种成分的加工食品也可以贴上有机食品的标签。
And a growing number of food producers that don’t use genetically modified ingredients in their products are seeking certification by the Non-G.M.O. Project. They carry a “Non-G.M.O.” label with a logo of a red butterfly on a blade of grass.
越来越多不使用转基因原料的食品制造商正在寻求“非转基因生物项目”(Non-G.M.O. Project)的认证。认证食品的标签上印着“Non-G.M.O.”字样，并绘有该机构的标识：一只落在草叶上的红色蝴蝶。