EMERYVILLE, Calif. — Vanilla, saffron, patchouli. For centuries, spices and flavorings like these have come from exotic plants growing in remote places like the jungles of Mexico or the terraced hillsides of Madagascar. Some were highly prized along ancient trading routes like the Silk Road.
加利福尼亚州埃默里维尔——香草、藏红花、广霍香。几个世纪以来，这些香料和调味料都来自异域植物，它们生长在遥远的地方，比如墨西哥的丛林，或者马达加斯加山腰的梯田。在丝绸之路(Silk Road)等古老的贸易线路上，某些香料和调味料可以卖出好价钱。
Now a powerful form of genetic engineering could revolutionize the production of some of the most sought-after flavors and fragrances. Rather than being extracted from plants, they are being made by genetically modified yeast or other micro-organisms cultured in huge industrial vats.
现在，一种强大的基因工程有望让某些最受欢迎的调味料和香料的生产过程发生革命性的变化。不必从植物中提取，它们将从转基因酵母菌、或工业大桶中培植的其它微生物生产出来。
“It’s just like brewing beer, but rather than spit out alcohol, the yeast spits out these products,” said Jay D. Keasling, a co-founder of Amyris, a company based here that is a pioneer in the field. However, while yeast makes alcohol naturally, it would not produce the spices without the extensive genetic rejiggering, which is called synthetic biology.
阿米瑞斯公司(Amyris)的联合创始人杰伊·D·基斯林(Jay D. Keasling)博士说，“这和酿造啤酒是一样的，只不过酵母菌不是产出酒精，而是产出这些产品。”阿米瑞斯是该领域的先驱，总部位于埃默里维尔。然而，虽然酵母菌能天然产生酒精，但如果不经过大量的基因改造，就无法产生香料，这种改造被称为合成生物学。
The advent of synthetic biology raises thorny economic and regulatory issues, such as whether such yeast-made ingredients can be called natural and whether developing countries dependent on these crops will be hurt.
合成生物学的问世，引发了一些棘手的经济问题和监管问题，比如，酵母菌产出的成分可否被称作天然成分？依赖这些作物的发展中国家会否受到伤害？
Supporters say the technique could benefit food and cosmetic companies, and ultimately consumers, by reducing wild swings in price, availability and quality that come from dependence on agriculture. It may even relieve pressure on some overharvested wild plants like sandalwood, a tree that provides a fragrance.
支持者说，这种方法能让食品和化妆品公司得益，最终让消费者得益，可以降低因依赖农业生产而带来的价格、供应和质量的剧烈波动。它甚至也许可以缓解一些被过度采集的野生植物的压力，比如檀香木，这是一种提供香料的树。
The products, which taste or smell nearly the same as the real thing, are coming quickly and even moving beyond flavors and fragrances to include other commodities, like rubber and drugs.
这些产品的味道或气味和真品几乎是一样的，它们正在迅速涌现，其范围甚至超出香料和芳香剂，包括了橡胶和药品等其他大宗商品。
In April, the pharmaceutical company Sanofi began commercial production of an essential malaria drug using baker’s yeast genetically modified by Amyris. The drug’s ingredient is usually extracted from a shrub that grows wild or is cultivated in China, Vietnam and various African countries. Amyris is also making a moisturizer for cosmetics that is typically extracted from either olives or shark livers.
今年4月，赛诺菲制药公司(Sanofi)开始利用由阿米瑞斯改造基因后的面包酵母，批量生产一种重要的疟疾药品。这种药品的成分通常提取自一种灌木，它生长在中国、越南和非洲多个国家，既有野生的，也有人工种植的。阿米瑞斯还在为化妆品公司生产一种保湿乳，该产品通常提取自橄榄或鲨鱼肝。
Evolva, a Swiss company, is about to start marketing yeast-made vanillin, the main component of vanilla. It is also working on saffron, now obtained mainly from crocuses grown in Iran.
瑞士公司Evolva即将开始营销酵母菌生产的香兰素，它是香草的主要成分。该公司还在研制藏红花，目前这种香料主要来自在伊朗种植的番红花。
Two other companies, Isobionics and Allylix, are separately producing valencene, a flavoring usually extracted from oranges, and nootkatone, a grapefruit flavor that also has potential as an insect repellent.
还有两家公司Isobionics和Allylix正在分别生产巴伦亚烯和诺卡酮，前者是一种调味料，通常提取自橙子，后者是一种葡萄味调味剂，也可用作驱虫剂。
“It’s really environmentally friendly. The whole process is sustainable,” said Toine Janssen, chief executive of Isobionics, based in the Netherlands.
总部在荷兰的Isobionics公司的首席执行官图瓦纳·詹森(Toine Janssen)说，“这种生产真的对环境无害。整个流程是可持续的。”
But critics say the technology threatens the livelihoods and exports of developing countries. “They are going after pockets of tropical farmers around the world,” said Jim Thomas, a researcher at the ETC Group, a Canadian technology watchdog.
然而，批评者说，这项技术对发展中国家的谋生手段和出口构成威胁。加拿大技术监督组织ETC集团(ETC Group)研究员吉姆·托马斯(Jim Thomas)说，“他们的目标，是全世界热带地区农民的口袋。”
Rick Brownell, an executive at the Virginia Dare Extract Company, a leading supplier of natural vanilla based in Brooklyn, said 80,000 farmers in Madagascar, one of the world’s poorest countries, grow vanilla beans.
领先的天然香草供应商、总部位于纽约布鲁克林区的Virginia Dare Extract Company（简称VDEC）的首席执行官里克·布劳内尔(Rick Brownell)说，马达加斯加有8万农民种植香子兰，该国是全球最贫穷的国家之一。
“I really count on that to make a living,” said Bersonina, 63, a farmer in Madagascar. Bersonina, who uses only one name, said in a telephone interview arranged by the company that the $200 he made last year producing about 50 kilograms, or 110 pounds, of vanilla barely supported his family of four. He said he was not familiar with the yeast-made vanilla substitute but imagined that an industrial process “could make thousands and thousands of tons,” posing a threat to farmers like himself.
63岁的马达加斯加农民博索尼那(Bersonina)说，“我真的依靠它维生。”博索尼那只有名字，他在该公司安排的电话采访里说，他去年生产了50公斤左右（约合110磅）的香草，挣了200美元（约合1218元人民币），这笔钱只够勉强维持一家四口的生活。他说，他不太了解酵母菌生产的香草替代物，不过，他能想象得出，工业化流程“能生产成千上万吨香草”，对他这样的农民构成威胁。
Another issue is whether foods containing such ingredients will need to be labeled made from genetically modified organisms in countries that require such labeling. The flavor companies say they do not think so because the yeast is considered a processing aid, not a source of the food.
另一个问题是，在要求转基因食品贴标签的国家，含有这种成分的食品是否需要标明其产自转基因的有机物。调味品公司表示，它们不这么认为，原因是酵母被认为是一种加工助剂，而非一种食物来源。
The United States does not require labeling, though there are legislative efforts in various states to do so.
美国不要求贴标签，尽管有多个州提出了要求这么做的立法提案。
Yeast already makes some compounds in the same broad family as those Amyris hopes to produce. The company substitutes some genes to change the end product. Amyris also engineers the yeast so it devotes almost all its resources to produce the desired product.
酵母本来可以制造一些化合物，与阿米瑞斯希望生产的产品同属一科。该公司替换了一些基因，以改变最终产品。阿米瑞斯还改变了酵母的基因结构，使其集中几乎所有资源产出所要的产品。
“We are trying to maximize the flow in that pipe and pinch off all the side pipes without killing the organism,” said Joel Cherry, the company’s president for research and development.
研发部主管乔尔·谢里(Joel Cherry)说，“我们正试图让那条通道的资源流动量达到最大，同时在不杀死酵母的前提下，掐断其他旁系通道。”
By shuffling DNA, partly by design and partly at random, robotic systems at Amyris produce and test tens of thousands of yeast strains a month. The best-performing ones eventually end up in commercial production in 200,000-liter fermenters in Brazil, close to the sugar cane needed to feed the yeast.
按照部分依照规划、部分随机进行的DNA重组方式，阿米瑞斯的机器人系统在一个月内产生并测试了数以万计的酵母菌株。表现最好的菌株最终在巴西的20万升发酵罐投入工业化生产，邻近培植酵母用的甘蔗。
The small start-ups are attracting bigger partners.
这些小规模的初创企业正在吸引规模较大的伙伴。
Amyris is working on a rubber product with Michelin and is believed to be working on patchouli with Firmenich, a Swiss flavor and fragrance company. Evolva is working with Cargill on stevia, a sweetener extracted from plants grown in China and elsewhere.
阿米瑞斯正在和米其林(Michelin)合作研制一种橡胶产品，据信，它还在和瑞士调味品及香精公司芬美意(Firmenich)合作研制广霍香香料。Evolva正在和嘉吉公司(Cargill)合作研制甜叶菊，这是一种通常从中国和其他地区生长的植物中提取的甜味剂。
Executives of the synthetic biology companies say their products, by relieving shortages and perhaps lowering prices, will expand markets, not displace farmers. But the mere prospect of new competition might prompt farmers to stop planting a crop, producing a shortage before enough yeast-made product is available.
合成生物公司的高管们说，他们的产品缓解了供应短缺，也许还降低了价格，这将有助于扩大市场，而不是取代农民。然而，仅仅是新竞争即将出现的迹象，也可能会促使农民停止种植某种作物，在市场获得足量的酵母生产产品之前，引发供应短缺。
That is a concern now with artemisinin, a malaria drug derived from Artemesia annua, or sweet wormwood. Amyris’s project to make that drug using yeast, which was financed largely by a $42.6 million grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, was initially described as a way to stabilize supply of a vital medicine, since the natural product has been subject to great swings in price and availability.
目前，人们对青蒿素就有这样的担忧，青蒿素是从青蒿中提取的抗疟疾药。阿米瑞斯用酵母生产该药的计划，最初被形容成稳定重要药物供应的一种手段，原因是这种天然产品一直受到巨大的价格和供应波动的影响。该计划主要由比尔和梅琳达·盖茨基金会(Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation)资助，资助金额为4260万美元。
But at a conference in April, Dr. Keasling, the co-founder of Amyris, said there were “moves afoot” to supply the entire world demand from the synthetic biology product.
不过，在今年4月的一次会议上，阿米瑞斯的联合创始人基斯林说，用这种合成生物产品满足全球所有需求的进程“正在推进中”。
“That sent shock waves through the industry,” said Malcolm Cutler, a principal at A2S2, a project aimed at ensuring an adequate supply of artemisinin. He said some Artemisia growers were contemplating not planting.
A2S2的负责人马尔科姆·卡特勒(Malcolm Cutler)说，“这使整个业界感受到冲击波。”A2S2是一个旨在确保青蒿素供应充足的项目。他说，一些青蒿种植户正打算停止种植青蒿。
“If we get this wrong, people are going to die,” he said.
他说，“如果我们在这件事上出错，有人会死。”
Dr. Keasling, who is also a professor of chemical engineering at the University of California, Berkeley, said that some small Artemisia farmers were being put out of business by larger plantations, not by synthetic biology. In any case, he said, the priority was to reduce the cost and increase the availability of the malaria drug. “It’s about saving the lives of children,” he said.
基斯林说，一些小规模的青蒿种植户是被规模更大的种植园（而不是合成生物学产业）挤出局的。他也是加利福尼亚大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)的化学工程教授。他说，无论如何，需要优先考虑的是降低成本、增加抗疟疾药的可获得性。“这事关挽救孩子们的生命，”他表示。