Spend any time around monetary officials and one word you’ll hear a lot is “normalization.” Most though not all such officials accept that now is no time to be tightfisted, that for the time being credit must be easy and interest rates low. Still, the men in dark suits look forward eagerly to the day when they can go back to their usual job, snatching away the punch bowl whenever the party gets going.
如果花些时间跟货币官员呆在一起，你肯定会常常听到他们提及“正常化”这个词。虽然不是每个人都这么想，但是大多数的货币官员都同意，现在不是捂紧荷包的时候，在这一段时间必须宽松信贷，并保持低利率。但是，这些穿着深色西装的人们还是翘首以盼，他们有朝一日可以回归自己的正常工作——当派对开始进入气氛，把酒拿走。
But what if the world we’ve been living in for the past five years is the new normal? What if depression-like conditions are on track to persist, not for another year or two, but for decades?
但是，要是我们经历的过去五年是新的常态的话，该怎么办？如果类似经济萧条的情况一直持续下去，不是一两年，而是几十年，又该怎么办？
You might imagine that speculations along these lines are the province of a radical fringe. And they are indeed radical; but fringe, not so much. A number of economists have been flirting with such thoughts for a while. And now they’ve moved into the mainstream. In fact, the case for “secular stagnation” — a persistent state in which a depressed economy is the norm, with episodes of full employment few and far between — was made forcefully recently at the most ultrarespectable of venues, the I.M.F.’s big annual research conference. And the person making that case was none other than Larry Summers. Yes, that Larry Summers.
你可能会以为，这类思路的猜想只是边缘激进派的观点。虽说这样的设想确实是挺激进的；但是绝对说不上边缘。好几位经济学家早就开始提出这些设想了。而现在，这些想法开始进入主流。事实上，所谓的“长期经济停滞”的设想——不景气的经济长期持续，进而成为常态，充分就业的情况甚少出现——近日在备受尊崇的经济会议，即国际货币基金组织的盛大年度研究会议上被人有力的提出。而提出这一设想的，不是别人，正是拉里·萨默斯(Larry Summers)。是的，就是那个拉里·萨默斯。
And if Mr. Summers is right, everything respectable people have been saying about economic policy is wrong, and will keep being wrong for a long time.
如果萨默斯是对的，那么，那些体面人所说的与经济政策有关的一切都是错的，而且，在接下来好长一段时间里，他们的观点都会是错的。
Mr. Summers began with a point that should be obvious but is often missed: The financial crisis that started the Great Recession is now far behind us. Indeed, by most measures it ended more than four years ago. Yet our economy remains depressed.
萨默斯以这样一个本应很显而易见，但常被人忽视的论点开始：那场引发大萧条的金融危机早就已经过去了。事实上，按照多数的标准来说，这场危机早在四年多前就过去了。但是，经济仍然萧条。
He then made a related point: Before the crisis we had a huge housing and debt bubble. Yet even with this huge bubble boosting spending, the overall economy was only so-so — the job market was O.K. but not great, and the boom was never powerful enough to produce significant inflationary pressure.
接下来，他提出一个相关的观点：在危机之前，我们制造了一个巨大的房产和债务泡沫。就算巨大泡沫推动了消费，整体经济的表现也只是一般而已——劳动力市场还算过得去，但也谈不上兴旺，而经济也没有景气到引发巨大的通胀压力。
Mr. Summers went on to draw a remarkable moral: We have, he suggested, an economy whose normal condition is one of inadequate demand — of at least mild depression — and which only gets anywhere close to full employment when it is being buoyed by bubbles.
萨默斯接着总结了一条重大教训：他认为，我们现在的经济常态，就是缺乏需求——最起码也算是轻度经济萧条——只有通过泡沫刺激才能重新接近充分就业的状态。
I’d weigh in with some further evidence. Look at household debt relative to income. That ratio was roughly stable from 1960 to 1985, but rose rapidly and inexorably from 1985 to 2007, when crisis struck. Yet even with households going ever deeper into debt, the economy’s performance over the period as a whole was mediocre at best, and demand showed no sign of running ahead of supply. Looking forward, we obviously can’t go back to the days of ever-rising debt. Yet that means weaker consumer demand — and without that demand, how are we supposed to return to full employment?
我还想提出更进一步的例证。不妨看一下家庭债务和家庭收入的比例。从1960年到1985年，这一比例大体稳定，但是从1985年到2007年则快速而迅猛地攀升，终于2007年金融危机袭来。但是，就算在家庭债务持续攀升期间，整体的经济表现最多也只能算是平常，我们并没有看到需求增长超过供给增长的迹象。向前看，我们显然不可能回到那债务不断攀升的年月。但是这就意味着更加疲软的消费者需求——而如果没有强劲需求，我们又怎能够重新实现充分就业呢？
Again, the evidence suggests that we have become an economy whose normal state is one of mild depression, whose brief episodes of prosperity occur only thanks to bubbles and unsustainable borrowing.
证据再一次显示，我们现在的经济常态，就是轻度的经济萧条，如果出现短暂的繁荣，只不过是因为泡沫和不可持续的借贷。
Why might this be happening? One answer could be slowing population growth. A growing population creates a demand for new houses, new office buildings, and so on; when growth slows, that demand drops off. America’s working-age population rose rapidly in the 1960s and 1970s, as baby boomers grew up, and its work force rose even faster, as women moved into the labor market. That’s now all behind us. And you can see the effects: even at the height of the housing bubble, we weren’t building nearly as many houses as in the 1970s.
为什么会出现这种情况？其中一个答案可能是，人口增长的放缓。人口增长会创造对于新的住宅，新的办公楼和其他一切的需求；当人口增长放缓，这些需求也随之降低。从上世纪60年代到70年代，随着婴儿潮一代的成长，美国的工作年龄人口快速增长，同时随着妇女进入劳动力市场，全美的劳动力增长则更为迅速。但对我们来说，这都已经是过去式了。你能够看到个中影响：就算在房地产泡沫的巅峰，我们新建的住宅数量也远没有1970年代多。
Another important factor may be persistent trade deficits, which emerged in the 1980s and since then have fluctuated but never gone away.
另外一个重要因素可能是持续的贸易逆差。逆差从80年代开始出现，此后虽然一直波动，但却从未真正消失。
Why does all of this matter? One answer is that central bankers need to stop talking about “exit strategies.” Easy money should, and probably will, be with us for a very long time. This, in turn, means we can forget all those scare stories about government debt, which run along the lines of “It may not be a problem now, but just wait until interest rates rise.”
为什么这些因素都需要考虑？其中一个原因是，中央银行的人应该停止讨论什么“退出计划”。宽松信贷应该且很有可能伴随我们相当长的一段时间。而这一点意味着我们可以忘记所有那些关于政府债务的可怕故事。按照一些人的逻辑推演，会说什么“现在可能还算不上问题，但是等到利率攀升就有你好看”。
More broadly, if our economy has a persistent tendency toward depression, we’re going to be living under the looking-glass rules of depression economics — in which virtue is vice and prudence is folly, in which attempts to save more (including attempts to reduce budget deficits) make everyone worse off — for a long time.
从更广泛的角度上说，如果我们的经济长期处于萧条状态的话，我们就必须长期遵循萧条经济学的镜子法则——这个时候，美德是恶习，谨慎就是愚蠢，想要节约的更多（包括那些控制财政赤字的努力），却让所有人的境遇更糟糕。
I know that many people just hate this kind of talk. It offends their sense of rightness, indeed their sense of morality. Economics is supposed to be about making hard choices (at other peoples’ expense, naturally). It’s not supposed to be about persuading people to spend more.
我知道，很多人非常讨厌这类言论。这冒犯了他们心中的对错标准，甚至他们的道德观。经济学本来应该是关于艰难决定的学说（当然，都是别人付出代价）。经济学本来不应该劝人多花钱的。
But as Mr. Summers said, the crisis “is not over until it is over” — and economic reality is what it is. And what that reality appears to be right now is one in which depression rules will apply for a very long time.
但是正如萨默斯所说，金融危机“会一直持续，直到真正结束为止”，而经济的现实已然如此。现在看来，现实似乎是，经济危机之下的法则将会适用很长一段时间。