HONG KONG — Want milk?
香港——想喝牛奶吗？
China Huishan Dairy hopes so. The Chinese milk producer is seeking to defy a lull in Hong Kong’s market for new share sales by raising as much as $1.3 billion in an initial public offering, a person with knowledge of the deal said Monday.
中国辉山乳业希望如此。一名知情人士透露，这家中国奶制品企业正准备打破香港新股发行市场的低迷状态，通过首次公开募股(IPO)筹集多达13亿美元（约合79.6亿元人民币）的资金。
Huishan, which is based in the northeastern city of Shenyang and makes products including fresh milk, infant formula and yogurt, will begin taking orders from institutional investors on Tuesday and is marketing its shares in a price range of 2.28 Hong Kong dollars to 2.67 Hong Kong dollars, or 29 cents to 30 cents, each, the person said, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the information was not public.
辉山乳业总部位于东北的沈阳市，产品包括鲜奶、婴幼儿配方奶粉和酸奶。前述知情人士表示，辉山乳业将于本周二开始接受机构投资者的认购，并将以每股2.28到2.67港元（约合1.80到2.11元人民币）的价格区间发行。由于涉及尚未公开的信息，该知情人士要求匿名。
A listing by Huishan would be a clear sign that Hong Kong’s stock market is emerging from a summer slump. The year had started off well enough for new offerings: in May, China Galaxy Securities raised about $1.1 billion, while Sinopec Engineering raised $1.8 billion. But by June, a number of I.P.O.’s were shelved or sharply reduced in size after investors became concerned about the effects of a slowing Chinese economy and the Federal Reserve’s plans to begin reducing its bond purchases in the United States.
辉山乳业的上市将发出清晰的信号：香港股市正从夏季的低谷中回升。今年的新股发行开局良好，5月，中国银河证券和中石化炼化工程分别募集了11亿美元和18亿美元。不过到了6月，好几桩IPO不是暂时遭搁置就是大幅缩减规模，因为投资者开始担忧两件事的影响，即中国经济放缓，以及美联储(Federal Reserve)计划开始逐步退出在美国的债券购买计划。
It remains to be seen whether those concerns have abated enough to accommodate a large new listing like Huishan’s proposed deal. If the demand for the offering is sufficient, the company tentatively plans to price its I.P.O. on Sept. 19 and to begin trading on or around Sept. 27, the person familiar with the matter said.
市场忧虑是否已减退到足以容纳辉山乳业这类大型IPO计划的程度，这一点尚有待观察。前述知情人士透露，如果需求旺盛，那么辉山乳业暂定在9月19日为IPO定价，并于9月27日前后开始交易。
At the same time, China’s dairy industry continues to struggle with food safety scandals. In September 2008, government inspectors found that 22 makers of baby formula had supplied products that were contaminated with the industrial chemical melamine, causing kidney-related illnesses in hundreds of thousands of infants and children. Huishan was not among them.
不过，中国的乳制品行业当下还在食品安全丑闻中挣扎。2008年9月，政府监察人员发现，22家婴幼儿配方奶粉企业推出的产品受到工业化学品三聚氰胺的污染，导致数十万婴幼儿罹患与肾脏相关的疾病。辉山乳业并未卷入其中。
The nationwide scandal that followed made Chinese consumers skeptical of formula made locally. But recent deal-making activity in the sector suggests that attitudes may be shifting, as high-quality formula producers seek to distinguish themselves. In June, China Mengniu Dairy agreed to pay $1.6 billion for Yashili International, one of the country’s biggest makers of infant formula.
继而爆发的全国性丑闻导致中国消费者对本土生产的配方产品心存疑虑。不过，该行业最近的交易活动表明，人们的情绪可能正在转变，而且高端婴幼儿配方产品生产商也在努力把自己区分开来。今年6月，中国蒙牛乳业与国内领先的婴幼儿奶粉生产商雅士利国际达成协议，以16亿美元的价格对后者进行收购。
Part of Huishan’s quality control efforts involves importing dairy cows, as well as certain grasses for their feed. The company has imported more than 110,000 head of cattle, according to a statement on its Web site, and says it operates China’s largest Jersey cow pasture.
辉山乳业在质量控制方面的工作包括，进口奶牛及奶牛专用的草料。公司网站上的一篇文章称，它进口了逾11万头奶牛，并且拥有中国最大的娟姗奶牛牧场。
The underwriters for Huishan’s I.P.O. are Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, HSBC and UBS. 
辉山乳业IPO的承销商为德意志银行(Deutsche Bank)、高盛(Goldman Sachs)、汇丰(HSBC)与瑞银(UBS)。