WASHINGTON — Environmentalists have spent the past two years fighting the Keystone XL pipeline: They have built a human chain around the White House, clogged the State Department’s public comment system with more than a million emails and letters, and gotten themselves arrested at protests across the country.
华盛顿——过去两年，环保人士一直在竭力反对Keystone XL输油管道工程的建设：他们曾在白宫外组成人墙，向国务院的公众意见平台发送了100多万封电子邮件和信件，使之接近瘫痪，还在全国各地的抗议活动上让自己遭到逮捕。
But as bad as they argue the 1,700-mile pipeline would be for the planet, Keystone XL has been a boon to the environmental movement. While it remains unclear whether President Obama will approve the project, both sides agree that the fight has changed American environmental politics.
然而，虽然他们声称，这条1700英里（约合2736公里）的管线会为地球带来恶劣影响，Keystone XL却令环保运动受益匪浅。虽然我们还不清楚，奥巴马总统是否会批准这一项目，但双方都同意，这场斗争已经彻底改变了美国的环境政治。
“I think it would be naïve for any energy infrastructure company to think that this would be a flash in the pan,” said Alexander J. Pourbaix, president of energy and oil pipelines at TransCanada, the company that has been trying to get a permit for the Keystone XL pipeline since 2008.
“我想，任何以为这不过是昙花一现的能源基础设施公司都太过天真了，”横加公司(TransCanada)能源和石油管线总裁亚历山大·J·普尔贝(Alexander J. Pourbaix)说道。自从2008年起，横加公司就一直在争取为Keystone XL输油管项目取得许可。
Environmentalists want to stop the transport of 800,000 barrels a day of heavy crude from oil sands formations in Canada to Texas refineries, and an oil extraction process that emits more greenhouse gases than other forms of production. Proponents of the Keystone XL project say that the oil will come out of the ground with or without a new pipeline and that other methods of transport, like rail, cause more pollution. They point out that TransCanada began operations on Wednesday on a southern pipeline segment that connects to existing pipelines to provide a route from Alberta to the Gulf Coast.
环保人士想要阻止每天从加拿大油砂岩层提取的80万桶原油运往得克萨斯的精炼厂，也希望阻止这样一个比其他任何生产方式都会释放出更多温室气体的石油开采过程。支持Keystone XL项目的人称，不论有没有一条新管线，石油都会冒出地表，而像铁路运输等其他运输方式只会带来更多污染。他们指出，横加公司周三开始了输油管南段的运行。这段管线连通现有管线，为从阿尔伯塔省向墨西哥湾地区运输石油打造了一条通路。
Although some critics say the environmental movement has made a strategic error by focusing so much energy on the pipeline, no one disputes that the issue has helped a new breed of environmental organizations build a mostly young army eager to donate money and time. The seven-year-old email list of 350.org, an organization that focuses on climate change, has more than doubled to 530,000 people since the group began fighting the pipeline in August 2011. In addition, about 76,000 people have signed a “pledge of resistance” sponsored by seven liberal advocacy groups in which they promise to risk arrest in civil disobedience if a State Department analysis, expected this year, points toward approval of the pipeline.
虽然一些批评人士声称，这次环保运动将太多精力集中于管线本身，是犯下了一个战略性错误，却没人能够否认，这一议题已经帮助新一批环保组织打造出了一支基本上由年轻人组成的大军，这些人渴望为此投入金钱和时间。350.org是一家关注气候变化的组织，已坚持七年通过发送电子邮件进行倡导。自从2011年8月这一组织开始反对Keystone XL项目，它的发件人列表已增加了一倍多，达到53万人。此外，还有约7.6万人签下了一份由七家自由派倡导组织发起的“抵制承诺”，他们承诺，如果国务院在今年发布的相关分析报告支持管线工程的通过，他们将不惜冒着被捕的风险参加公民不服从运动。
The Keystone XL project has also raised the profile of a diverse generation of environmental leaders, like the activist Bill McKibben, a former writer for The New Yorker and founder of 350.org, and the billionaire venture capitalist Thomas F. Steyer, who is estimated to have contributed at least $1 million to the movement and has starred in four 90-second ads opposing the pipeline. Not least, it has united national and local environmental groups that usually fight for attention and resources.
Keystone XL项目也提高了一批背景各异的环保领袖的知名度，如前《纽约时报》专栏作者、350.org的创始人、活动人士比尔·麦奇本(Bill McKibben)，还有亿万富翁、风险投资家托马斯·F·斯蒂尔(Thomas F. Steyer)。据估计，斯蒂尔至少已经为这项运动投入了100万美元（约合600万元人民币），还在四部反对石油管线的90秒广告中亮相。另外，这项运动还让全国性和地方性的环保组织团结起来，此前，它们通常都会为了吸引注意力和资源而互相争斗。
“Over the last 18 months, I think there was this recognition that stopping the pipeline is, in fact, important,” said Ross Hammond, a senior campaigner at Friends of the Earth. “But it has also brought a huge number of people into the movement.”
地球之友(Friends of the Earth)的高级宣传员罗斯·哈蒙德(Ross Hammond)说，“在过去18个月，人们达成了这样一种认识，阻止这条管线的建设真的很重要。它让很多人一起加入了这场运动。”
That movement, Mr. McKibben said in an interview, “looks the way we want the energy system to look: not a few big power plants, but a million solar panels all tied together.”
麦奇本在一次采访中表示，“这场运动的目标正是我们希望能源产业达到的目标：不是几家大型电厂，而是100万台太阳能组件连接在一起。”
Politically, the draw of Keystone XL comes from its physical presence. It is far easier, environmental activists say, to rally people around something as vivid as a pipeline bisecting the United States than, say, around cap-and-trade legislation that would have forced industry to pay a price for its carbon emissions. The legislation failed in Congress in 2009.
从政治的角度来看，Keystone XL的凝聚力来自它的实体存在。环保活动人士称，比起支持要求生产型企业为碳排放买单的限量及交易(cap-and-trade)法案的行动，这样醒目地、将美国一分为二的石油管线更能将人们轻而易举地召集起来。2009年，上述法案就没能在国会通过。
“When we’re able to focus on distinct, concrete projects, we tend to win,” said Michael Brune, executive director of the Sierra Club. “And when we tend to focus on more obscure policies or places where we need action from Congress, we tend to stall, like every other thing tends to stall.”
塞拉俱乐部(Sierra Club)的执行主管迈克尔·布龙(Michael Brune)说，“当我们能够将精力集中于一些显著而具体的项目时，我们很有可能会取得胜利。但是当我们将精力集中于一些更为模糊的政策，或者需要国会采取行动的领域，我们往往就步履蹒跚，基本上无一例外。”
The pipeline has been a particular hit with small donors, especially as environmental organizations turn more to protests, fund-raisers said. Last year, the Sierra Club raised $1 million in six weeks for a major rally in Washington. About $100,000 of that came from contributions of less than $1,000.
一些筹款人表示，石油管线项目特别受到小额捐助者的支持，特别是当环保组织将注意力更多转向抗议活动以后。去年，塞拉俱乐部为了在华盛顿举行的一场大型集会，在六个星期里就筹得了100万美元。其中大约有10万美元都来自每笔低于1000美元的捐款。
“This is not one of our usual long-term campaigns,” said Jackie Brown, the Sierra Club’s chief advancement officer. “This was an emerging upswelling of support.”
塞拉俱乐部的首席促进官杰基·布朗(Jackie Brown)说，“这并不是我们通常开展的那种长期运动。这是突然涌现的大量支持。”
Wealthier donors are also opening their wallets. Betsy Taylor, a longtime environmental fund-raiser, said her network of contributors was increasingly supporting the more aggressive campaigns run by groups like 350.org and Bold Nebraska, a shift away from the environmental research and policy organizations that have traditionally drawn such contributions.
较富裕的捐助者也开始慷慨解囊。一位长期的环境项目筹款人贝茜·泰勒(Betsy Taylor)表示，她所熟悉的捐助者越来越支持350.org、勇敢的內布拉斯加州(Bold Nebraska)等组织运作的更为激进的运动。它们与传统上吸引这类捐助的环保研究和政策组织有所不同。
Keystone XL — the XL stands for express line — would be a shortcut to the Gulf of Mexico as well as an extension of TransCanada’s existing Keystone pipeline, which runs from Alberta to Nebraska, with small branches to Illinois and Oklahoma. Keystone XL would be a far more direct route across the United States. Keystone consists of a three-foot-diameter pipe that is three feet underground. Keystone XL would also be three feet in diameter, but four feet underground.
Keystone XL的XL代表express line，即快速通道，这将是通往墨西哥湾的一条捷径，也是对横加公司现有Keystone管线的延长。目前的Keystone管线是从阿尔伯塔省到内布拉斯加，还有小型支线延伸到伊利诺伊和俄克拉荷马。Keystone XL在美国的路径将会更为直接。Keystone由一根埋入地下三英尺、直径三英尺的管线构成。Keystone XL的管线直径也是三英尺，但埋入地下四英尺。
Initially, opposition to Keystone XL consisted of scattered people and groups along the proposed route of the pipeline, including indigenous tribes in Alberta. The fight went national in June 2011 when James E. Hansen, a former NASA climate scientist, wrote an open letter calling the pipeline “game over for the climate” and urged people to write to Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state. (Because the project crosses an international boundary, it is subject to approval by the State Department.)
最初，反对Keystone XL的力量主要来自规划管线沿途的零散个人和组织，其中包括阿尔伯塔的土著部落。2011年6月，前美国国家航空航天局(NASA)气候科学家詹姆斯·E·汉森(James E. Hansen)写了一封公开信，称这条管线是“对气候的终结”，并敦促人们给时任国务卿的希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)写信。之后，这一运动开始在全国铺开。（由于这一项目跨越国境线，所以需要得到国务院的批准。）
To counter the campaign, TransCanada has had to run television and radio ads to promote the jobs that the pipeline could provide. Industry allies like the American Petroleum Institute have also been running ads.
为了发起反击，横加公司不得不投入电视和广播广告，来宣传这一管线所能带来的就业机会。像美国石油协会(American Petroleum Institute)这样的业内同盟也一直在投入广告。
If Mr. Obama approves the Keystone XL pipeline, Mr. Brune of the Sierra Club said, it will be “the Vietnam of his presidency.” But, he added, environmentalists’ efforts will hardly have been for nothing.
塞拉俱乐部的布龙说，如果奥巴马批准了Keystone XL管线，这就将成为“他总统任期内的越南”。但他又说，环保人士的行动并不会完全落空。
“If you lose on this,” said Mike Casey, a consultant on a number of environmental efforts, including Mr. Steyer’s, “this infrastructure doesn’t go away. It remains deployable and passionate.”
“如果你在这场运动上失败了，”为包括斯蒂尔等人的环保行动提供咨询的迈克·卡塞伊(Mike Casey)说道，“打下的基础不会消失。这一群众基础依旧可供调遣也充满热情。”