MONG LA, Myanmar — The smuggling route into this rebel-run jungle outpost just over the Chinese border begins on the back of a motorcycle that takes passengers through steeply terraced rubber plantations, and skirts the official crossing before ending at an outdoor market where bedraggled prostitutes mingle with Chinese tourists haggling over tiger claws, bear paws and desiccated squares of elephant skin.
缅甸勐拉——这座丛林包围的偏远小镇由叛军控制，在中缅边境线的缅甸一侧。一条偷渡路线通向小镇，这条路的第一段要骑着摩托车完成。你先要穿过陡峭的橡胶种植园梯田，然后绕过官方的过境点，最终来到一个户外集市上。这里熙熙攘攘的人群中既有外表邋遢的妓女，也有为了虎爪、熊掌和一张张晒干大象皮讨价还价的中国游客。
At $14 each way, the 20-minute ride is a relative bargain, although the price does not include payoffs to teenage Burmese insurgents at impromptu checkpoints along the way.
这趟旅程单程20分钟，车费为14美元（约合86元人民币），可算是相当便宜。当然这个价格不包括沿途临时检查点上付给那些十多岁的缅甸反政府武装分子的钱。
Tucked into the verdant forests of Myanmar’s eastern Shan State, Mong La is better known here by its Chinese name, Xiaomengla, in part because the vast majority of its residents are Chinese, as are most of the illegal day-trippers, drug mules, Christian missionaries and comely young croupiers who work in the city’s 20 casinos, most of which are Chinese-owned.
勐拉位于缅甸东部掸邦的茂密丛林中，它更为人知的是它的中文名小勐拉，因为这里大部分的居民都是华人。那些非法穿越边境当天往返的人、走私毒品的人、基督教传教士以及在小镇上二十多家赌场工作的相貌秀美的年轻赌台管理员，他们多数也都是华人，这些赌场大多也是华人所有。
Mong La has a hilltop Buddhist temple and a picturesque colonial church, but vice and self-indulgence, not sightseeing, are the city’s main draws. “There’s not much to do here but gamble and eat wild animals,” one Chinese matron said with disdain.
勐拉有一座位于山顶的佛教寺庙，还有一座殖民时期的漂亮教堂，但这座城市吸引人的地方并不在于观光项目，而是一些有伤风化和自我放纵的活动。一位年长的华人女性鄙夷地说，“除了赌博和吃野生动物，在这里没什么可做的。”
Mong La runs on Beijing time, 90 minutes ahead of the rest of Myanmar, also known as Burma. Cellphone service and electricity are provided by China. The renminbi of China, not the Burmese kyat, is the only currency accepted at the city’s roulette tables, storefront brothels and Sichuan-style restaurants.
勐拉用的是北京时间，比缅甸其他地方要早90分钟。当地的移动电话和电力都由中国提供。在小镇上的赌桌前、街边的妓院和川味餐厅里，人民币是唯一认可的货币，而不是缅元。
As Myanmar embraces democracy after decades of military dictatorship, Mong La, the domain of a former Communist rebel turned warlord-entrepreneur, is a glaring reminder of the challenges the Burmese government faces in taming the patchwork of rebel-held territories along its northern frontier.
控制勐拉的军阀企业家从前是共产党叛军。经过了几十年的军事独裁后，缅甸开始走向民主。而勐拉却清楚地提醒着缅甸政府，在收复其北方边境地区那些叛军控制的一片片土地时，它依然面临着重重挑战。
Sai Leun, the warlord who runs what is officially known as Special Region No. 4, employs several thousand armed men who, for the moment, peacefully coexist with Burmese troops and the ethnic Wa militia that controls a neighboring piece of territory.
这里的军阀是林明贤(Sai Leun)，手下有数千名武装人员，他所控制的这片土地的官方名称是第四特区。目前，这些武装人员与缅甸政府军以及控制相邻土地的佤族民兵和平共处。
Despite its longstanding economic and historic ties to the region, China has a conflicted relationship with Mong La. A decade ago, alarmed by the legion of officials gambling away stolen public money, Chinese soldiers poured across the border to shut down the casinos. In response, Sai Leun simply orchestrated the construction of new gambling parlors 10 miles farther south of the border on a virgin tract of jungle.
尽管中国与勐拉有着长期的经济和历史联系，两者的关系却充满矛盾冲突。10年前，中国惊讶地发现，许多官员在这里的赌桌上拿着挪用的公款一掷千金，于是大量中国士兵越过边境，关停了这里的赌场。林明贤为了应付这一局面，从边境线又向南推进了10英里（约合16公里），在那里一片未开发的丛林中规划建设了新的赌场。
In 2012, when China severed cellphone service to the area in an effort to choke off Internet gambling, casino owners brought in satellite dishes to maintain the flow of money from those who prefer to bet from the comfort of Shanghai, Guangzhou and other Chinese cities.
2012年，中国为了打击这里的网络赌博，切断了对此地的移动电话服务，之后赌场老板们装上了卫星接收器。那些更乐意从上海、广州和中国其他城市参与网上赌博的人还能接着赌，而赌场老板们也能源源不断地继续收钱。
Analysts say the Chinese are reluctant to pull the plug entirely — something it could easily do by blocking cross-border traffic or by cutting off the electrical supply flowing south from adjacent Yunnan Province.
分析人士称，中国政府也不愿意完全地釜底抽薪。其实只要封锁往来边境的交通，或者切断相邻的云南省对此地的电力供应，它就能轻易做到这一点。
“If we banned tourism entirely, it would harm more than just the casinos and hit a lot of businesses that support the local economy,” said Zhu Zhenming, an expert on China-Myanmar relations at the Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences.
云南省社会科学院的中缅关系专家朱振明说，“如果我们彻底禁止赴此地的旅游，打击的就不只是赌场，还会伤及许多支持本地经济的企业。”
Officially, at least, Beijing tries to limit access to the city by requiring its citizens to obtain special permits; outside each casino, large red signs remind Chinese citizens that they are forbidden to enter.
中国政府至少在官方层面会限制中国人进入勐拉，会要求中国公民在前往此地前获得特别许可。而且在每一间赌场外，也有会硕大的红色标识提醒中国公民不得进入。
In reality, Mandarin speakers fill nearly every seat at the baccarat tables and electronic slot machines. Few bother applying for a pass and instead sneak in, via motorbike or by climbing through large holes conveniently located on the border fence.
但事实上，这里的百家乐纸牌桌和电子老虎机前，几乎每一个位子上坐的都是说普通话的人。没几个人会费劲去申请特别许可，多数都是偷偷地潜入。有些人会坐摩托车过来，其他一些人则会穿过边境线的栅栏上恰好出现的一些大洞，来到这里。
Mong La thrives by appealing to humanity’s more base desires. Hotel rooms are littered with palm cards hawking “newly arrived virgins,” “mother-daughter combos” and “sassy 16-year-olds with large breasts,” and hotel televisions broadcast round-the-clock Japanese pornography, along with Chinese historical dramas and South Korean soap operas. Crystal meth is widely available, as are handguns, stolen cars and a Noah’s Ark of endangered wildlife — owls, bamboo rats and tortoises — displayed in cages outside restaurants.
勐拉的繁荣有赖于它对人性较为基本的欲望的迎合。酒店房间里满是一些小卡片，兜售“新到的处女”、“母女组合”和“大胸的16岁活泼少女”，酒店的电视24小时播放日本色情片、中国历史剧和韩国肥皂剧。许多地方都能买到冰毒、手枪、偷来的车还有各种珍稀野生动物，其中有猫头鹰、竹鼠和陆龟，它们都被关在餐馆外的笼子里。
The city’s anything-goes ethos has turned Mong La into a magnet for wildlife traffickers eager to satisfy the medicinal and culinary cravings of its Chinese clientele. Stores openly sell Tibetan antelope heads, cloud leopard pelts and wild tiger limbs — items banned in China. At the live animal market, caged monkeys and pangolins, scaly anteaters whose meat is highly prized in southern China, await slaughter.
为所欲为的风气，把勐拉变成了吸引那些急于满足中国顾客的食欲和药物需求的野生动物贩子的磁石。商店里公开兜售藏羚羊头颅、云豹皮毛和野生虎爪，而这些东西在中国境内都属于禁售之列。在鲜活动物市场，笼子里关着等待被屠戮的猴子和穿山甲。后者是一种表面覆盖鳞片的食蚁生物，它的肉在华南地区备受推崇。
Vincent Nijman, a zoologist at Oxford Brookes University in England, said Mong La has become one of Asia’s largest markets for endangered wildlife. In recent years, he has cataloged about 40 rare and threatened species at the market, among them a hairy-nosed otter — an animal that until recently had been believed to have been extinct.
英格兰牛津布鲁克斯大学(Oxford Brookes University)的动物学家文森特·奈曼(Vincent Nijman)表示，勐拉已成为亚洲最大的濒危野生动物市场之一。最近几年，他在当地的市场分辨出了大约40个珍稀濒危物种，其中还有毛鼻水獭。直到不久前，这种生物还被人们认为已经灭绝了。
During his most recent visit in January, Dr. Nijman and a colleague from the conservation group Traffic counted 49 whole elephant tusks and 3,300 pieces of ivory for sale. “There’s absolutely no attempt to hide anything,” he said. “The scale of the trade is shocking.”
奈曼最近一次到勐拉是今年1月。保护组织“野生物贸易研究委员会”(Traffic)的一名成员和他一起，两人找到了有待出售的49根完整象牙和3300件象牙制品。“绝对没有一丝一毫的掩盖，”他说，“此类贸易规模惊人。”
At night, Mong La resembles a neon spaceship that crash-landed in the jungle. But the potholed streets are thick with desperation. “I came here a rich man, and now I have nothing,” said a 43-year-old cabdriver, a former businessman from Chongqing, who said he gambled away nearly 700,000 renminbi, or about $115,000, more than a decade ago. The driver, who gave only his surname, Zhang, said he longed to be with his family but could not leave until he earned enough money to regain his pride. “I won’t let my family come here, because this is no place for children,” he said before turning his attention back to the poker game on his cellphone.
夜间的勐拉看起来像是坠落在丛林中的霓虹飞船。然而，坑坑洼洼的大街小巷里满是绝望的味道。“我来的时候很有钱，现在两手空空，”一名43岁的出租司机说。他以前在重庆经商，自称十多年前赌输了近70万元人民币。他只愿透露自己姓张，还说很想念家人，但在挣到足够的钱并找回面子之前，他不能离开。“我不会让家里人来这里，因为对小孩不好，”说完他又埋头在手机上玩纸牌游戏。
Having borrowed money from loan sharks, some residents are trapped as they await money from relatives. Others are outlaws who have found refuge in a lawless land. Liu Qiao, 40, a blustery man from northern China, fled here in 2009 after gambling away what he said was $1.6 million that belonged to his mining company.
一些居民借了高利贷，在等待家人解困的时间里寸步难行。还有一些是在法网之外找到庇护的逃犯。40岁的刘桥（Liu Qiao，音译）是个急性子，来自中国北方，2009年出逃此地。他自称是因为赌博挥霍了自己矿业公司的1000万元。
Fearing arrest if he returns to China, he found work as a so-called casino agent, escorting wealthy gamblers to casinos and arranging cash advances through a company that gives him a small cut of each loan. Asked what happens to those who cannot repay their debts, Mr. Liu smiled uncomfortably. “You don’t leave until you pay,” he said.
他害怕回国后被抓，于是找了一份所谓的“赌场中介”的工作，陪同阔绰的赌客逛赌场，并通过一家公司安排预付金出借事宜。从每笔预付金中，他都能获得一小笔回扣。当被问到没法还债的人的遭遇时，刘桥不自然地笑了一下。“还清了才能走，”他说。
With many of his Chinese customers spending the Lunar New Year holiday at home with family, Mr. Liu was eager to accompany a group of Western visitors he mistook for high rollers. After a bone-rattling drive along the unfinished road that connects the city center to the gambling district, he showed off the Casino Lisboa, a Thai-themed gambling hall presided over by a large Buddha, and the Royal Casino, its brightly lit facade dressed in fluted columns and Roman centurions.
由于时值农历新年假期，许多中国客人待在家中，因此刘桥急于拉上一帮他误以为是豪赌客的西方游人。一行人在连接市中心与赌场区的未完工的路上颠得浑身散架之后，他得意地介绍了葡京赌场(Casino Lisboa)和皇家赌场(Royal Casino)。前者是泰式装修，上有一尊巨大的佛像；后者的外立面熠熠发光，饰有雕花廊柱和古罗马士兵的雕塑。
Inside, the mood was quietly tense as chain-smoking gamblers hovered over their chips, making bets as high as $33,000. Sharing the tables were scores of young men and women with headsets. Their job: to play the hands of remote Chinese bettors who followed the action through live video feeds.
赌场里则弥漫着一种安静的紧张感。烟不离口的赌客摆弄着筹码，下注金额可高达20万元。赌桌旁还围着大量戴着耳机的男女青年。他们的任务是，代替盯着实时录像的远程中国赌客下注。
Over dinner, Mr. Liu lamented that his gambling addiction had destroyed his family and the mining company, started with friends, that has since gone belly up. “I’ve lost all face,” he said.
晚饭的时候，刘桥抱怨称，嗜赌成瘾让他毁了家庭和矿业公司。那家公司是他与友人一起开办的，现已破产。“我面子都丢光了，”他说。
But his mood brightened as he took one more stroll through the casino floor. He paused at a roulette table, threw down a 100-renminbi note and waited. When the ball dropped, he picked up 200 renminbi from the table and walked out into the night, a smile on his face.
不过，当他绕着赌场大厅再走了一圈之后，情绪立即高涨起来。他在轮盘赌桌旁停了下来，扔进去一张百元大钞，然后开始等待。当珠子停下来的时候，他从桌上拿起200元人民币，脸上挂着微笑走出了赌场，消失在夜幕中。