Isabelle Collin Dufresne, the French-born artist, actress and author known as Ultra Violet, the beauty among the superstars of Andy Warhol’s glory days at his studio, the Factory, died early Saturday morning at a Manhattan hospital. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan and in Nice, France.
法国出生的艺术家、演员及作家伊莎贝尔·科利纳·迪弗雷纳(Isabelle Collin Dufresne)于周六(此处指6月14日——编注）清晨在曼哈顿一家医院逝世，享年78岁，生前居住在曼哈顿和法国尼斯。她以艺名“紫外线”(Ultra Violet)为世人所知，是安迪·沃霍尔(Andy Warhol)全盛时代的工作室“工厂”的众多巨星中的一位美女。
The death was confirmed by William Butler, a family friend. A cousin, Carole Thouvard Revol, said the cause was cancer.
死讯由她的家庭朋友威廉·巴特勒(William Butler)确认。她的表亲卡罗尔·图瓦尔·雷沃尔(Carole Thouvard Revol)说死因是癌症。
In 1973, Ultra Violet had a near-death experience, for which she blamed her habits of excess in the decade before. In the 1980s, she condemned the rampant drug use, orgiastic sex and unchecked egotism at the Factory, repented for her part in it and became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
1973年，“紫外线”曾有过一次濒死体验，她说这要归咎于自己十年之前放纵的生活习惯。20世纪80年代，她曾谴责“工厂”中的滥用毒品、放荡的性生活和人们过度膨胀的自我，对自己在其中扮演的角色表示忏悔，并加入了耶稣基督末世圣徒教会(Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints)。
She worked as an artist until her death. A New York exhibition at the Dillon Gallery in Chelsea this spring, “Ultra Violet: The Studio Recreated,” featured a selection of her paintings, sculptures, prints, film and neon works. The show closed three weeks before she died.
她直到临终前都在从事艺术工作。今年春天，她在纽约切尔西的迪里昂画廊举办了展览“紫外线：重建的工作室”(Ultra Violet: The Studio Recreated)，其中展览了她的油画、雕塑、版画、电影和霓虹灯作品。展览在她去世三周前结束。
Summing up her artistic abilities in a 2009 video interview, she said: “I have infinite imagination. Maybe I don’t have too much technique.” Much of her recent work had dealt with Sept. 11, using the Roman numerals IX and XI as a graphic palindrome, and with the iconography of Mickey Mouse, whom she often depicted wearing angel wings.
2009年的一段视频采访中，她对自己的艺术才华做了总结：“我拥有无穷无尽的想象力，或许不具有太多技巧。”她的大量近期作品都是与911事件有关，使用罗马数字IX和XI作为图案回文，并使用米老鼠的图像（她在作品中经常为米老鼠添上天使的翅膀）。
Ms. Collin Dufresne was in her late 20s when she met Warhol while having tea at the St. Regis Hotel with the artist Salvador Dalí, a lover and an earlier mentor. It was 1964, and Warhol immediately expressed interest in having her in his films. She made her screen debut the next year under her real name in Warhol’s “The Life of Juanita Castro,” an improvised black-and-white political comedy.
科利纳·迪弗雷纳二十八九岁的时候，在圣里吉斯酒店和艺术家萨尔瓦多·达利(Salvador Dalí)一起喝茶时邂逅了沃霍尔，达利是她的恋人和早年导师。那是在1964年，沃霍尔很快表示有意让她参演自己的电影。翌年她使用真名在沃霍尔的即兴黑白政治喜剧片《华妮塔·卡斯特罗的生活》(The Life of Juanita Castro)中亮相，这是她首次出演电影。
By the time she appeared in her second Warhol film, “I, a Man” (1967), which also starred Nico and Valerie Solanas (who later shot and seriously injured Warhol), she had taken the name Ultra Violet. But when she was not in character, with some combination of purple hair, purple lipstick, trowel-heavy purple eye shadow and beet juice as cheek color, she looked like the prettiest girl at the prom — a soignée brunette with a shoulder-length bouffant, delicate features and maximum false eyelashes. And she had a French accent.
她的第二部电影是沃霍尔1967年的《我，一个男人》(I, a Man)，担任主演的还有妮可(Nico)和瓦莱丽·索拉纳斯（Valerie Solanas，正是她后来令沃霍尔深受重伤）。在这部影片中，科利纳·迪弗雷纳开始使用“紫外线”这个名字。而当她不饰演角色的时候，她的紫色头发、紫色唇膏、浓重的紫色眼影和甜菜汁色的腮红也会令她显得如同毕业舞会上最美的女孩——一个盛装的深色头发女子，穿着露肩的蓬蓬裙，相貌精致，戴着长长的假睫毛，而且还有一口法国口音。
Isabelle Collin Dufresne was born on Sept. 6, 1935, in La Tronche, France, near Grenoble, to an upper-middle-class family. She often said that when she had shown rebellious tendencies as a teenager, her parents had a Roman Catholic priest perform an exorcism. Apparently, the effects were delayed.
伊莎贝尔·科利纳·迪弗雷纳于1935年9月6日生于格勒诺布尔附近的拉特龙什一个中上层阶级家庭里。她常说当自己十几岁出现叛逆迹象时，父母让一个罗马天主教会的神父来为她驱魔。显然，驱魔的效果延迟了。
She was also sent to a reform school at one point and studied art in Grenoble before being “shipped off” to New York, as she always said, where it was hoped a new environment might tame her.
她曾经进过教养院，后来去了格勒诺布尔学艺术，之后又如她常说的，“被送往”纽约，家人希望新环境能令她驯服一点。
As Ultra Violet, Ms. Collin Dufresne appeared in some 17 films, not counting numerous documentaries made later about the period and the Factory regulars. Even those films that were not directed by Warhol or his acolyte Paul Morrissey tended to be Warholian, dealing with the counterculture, drugs or at least fantasy or horror, and her co-stars in those non-Warhol films often included other Factory superstars, as they were known. She was in a 1970 “Cleopatra,” for instance, in which Viva played the title role.
科利纳·迪弗雷纳以“紫外线”的艺名出演过17部电影，还不算许许多多后来反映那个时代与“工厂”重要人员的纪录片。在她出演的电影里，就算不是由沃霍尔或他的助手保罗·莫里西(Paul Morrissey)导演，也都具有沃霍尔风格，以反文化和毒品为题材，至少也是关于幻想和恐怖。而且她在非沃霍尔导演的影片中也经常和其他著名的“工厂”巨星们合作。比如她在1970年的《克里奥帕特拉》(Cleopatra)中出演角色时，饰演埃及艳后的正是“工厂”的维娃(Viva)。
But Ultra Violet also appeared in “Midnight Cowboy” (1969), in a party scene with her fellow Factory habitués Viva, International Velvet and Mr. Morrissey; had a small part in Milos Forman’s “Taking Off” (1971); and played a kinky party guest in Paul Mazursky’s “An Unmarried Woman” (1978), with Jill Clayburgh. Ultra Violet’s final film acting job was in “Blackout” (1994), directed by Paulita Sedgwick, a cousin of Edie Sedgwick, the heiress and Factory starlet who died in 1971 in her 20s.
“紫外线”还曾在1969年的《午夜牛郎》(Midnight Cowboy)中亮相，是在一个派对场景中，与维娃、“国际丝绒”(International Velvet)和莫里西等其他“工厂”常客一起；此外她还曾在米洛斯·福尔曼(Milos Forman)1971年的《逃家》(Taking Off)中出演一个小角色、在保罗·马祖斯基(Paul Mazursky)1978年的《不结婚的女人》(An Unmarried Woman)中饰演一个古怪的派对来宾，参演的还有吉尔·克雷伯格(Jill Clayburgh)。“紫外线”的最后一部电影是1994年的《灯火管制》(Blackout)，导演是保利塔·塞奇威克(Paulita Sedgwick)，是艾迪·塞奇威克的表亲。艾迪·塞奇威克是个富家女，“工厂”明星，1971年去世，年仅20多岁。
In “Famous for 15 Minutes: My Years With Andy Warhol,” Ultra Violet’s 1988 memoir, she wrote about her return to religion after a nervous and physical breakdown. She kissed and told, naming among her past lovers Rudolf Nureyev, the artist Ed Ruscha and Mr. Forman. And she denounced the person she had been during the Warhol years as an “unleashed exhibitionist chasing headlines.”
“紫外线”在1988年出版了回忆录《15分钟的名声：我与安迪·沃霍尔共度的岁月》(Famous for 15 Minutes: My Years With Andy Warhol)。她在其中写道自己在一次神经与身体的崩溃之后回归信仰。她描述了许多自己与过去的恋人们之间的私事，比如鲁道夫·努里耶夫(Rudolf Nureyev)、艺术家艾德·拉斯查(Ed Ruscha)和导演福尔曼。她还谴责那个她与沃霍尔合作期间的恋人，说他是“放纵的露阴癖，只知追求曝光”。
“I survived by grace alone,” she told a PBS interviewer in 2005.
“我只是因为承蒙天恩才活下来，”2005年，她在接受PBS采访时说。
Ms. Collin Dufresne, who never married, is survived by two sisters, Catherine Cara and Edwige Merceron-Vicat.
科利纳·迪弗雷纳终生未婚，她在世的亲人还有两个姊妹：卡特琳·卡拉(Catherine Cara)和艾德维热·梅瑟龙-维卡(Edwige Merceron-Vicat)
Interviewers often asked her about the decade in which she was at the center of celebrity culture. In a 2011 interview with USA Today, she said, “I mean, it was an exciting era in that there was a cultural revolution going on.” She acknowledged that there was no comparable shake-up underway in the 2000s so far, but added, “I think we are constantly in some kind of a flux.”
她身处名人文化中心的那十年是采访者经常提起的话题。在2011年接受《今日美国》(USA Today)采访时她说，“我想说，那是一段令人兴奋的时期，一场文化革命正在发生。”她承认，2000年后没有能与之相比的剧变发生，但她还说，“我想我们一直处在某种变动之中。”
She could be a serious interview subject, as when in David Henry Gerson’s 2011 documentary, “Ultra Violet for Sixteen Minutes,” she announced, “As you come closer to your true nature, you are more fulfilled.”
她能成为一个极为严肃认真的采访对象，在大卫·亨利·戈森(David Henry Gerson)2011年的纪录片《16分钟的紫外线》(Ultra Violet for Sixteen Minutes)中，她宣布，“你们愈是贴近自己的真实本性，就会觉得愈充实。”
But she could also jab. At an arts festival in Bridgehampton, N.Y., in 2010, she and her longtime Factory friend Taylor Mead were confronted by a young interviewer who appeared to have no idea who they were and simply presented them with generic questions like “Whose work do you like?” and “Why are you here?”
但她也可以非常犀利，2010年，在纽约州布里奇汉普顿的一个艺术节上，她和“工厂”时期的老朋友泰勒·米德(Taylor Mead)接受一个年轻采访者的提问，对方显然不知道他俩是什么人，只想问他们一些普通的问题，诸如“你们喜欢谁的作品”、“你们为什么到这儿来”之类。
Ultra Violet tossed off one answer, “I like my own work.” And then, as if it were 1965 again, she said, “We are here because we are world-famous.”
“紫外线”径直回答了第一个问题，“我最喜欢我自己的作品”。这时，仿佛时光又回到了1965年，她说：“我们到这儿来是因为我们都是世界名人。”