DAVOS, Switzerland — She may not have been the youngest speaker ever at the World Economic Forum in Davos, but Khadija Niazi, 12, was certainly captivating.
瑞士达沃斯——她可能并非达沃斯世界经济论坛最年轻的演讲嘉宾，然而12岁的卡蒂嘉·尼亚兹(Khadija Niazi)的确俘获了听众的心。
Hundreds of the conference’s well-heeled attendees listened intently as Ms. Niazi, of Lahore, Pakistan, described her experience with massive open online courses, known as MOOCs, that are spreading rapidly around the globe.
数百名穿着考究的与会人员聚精会神地听着这位来自巴基斯坦拉合尔的尼亚兹女士介绍她学习大规模在线公开课程（即MOOCs）的经历。而这种在线课程正迅速地在全球传播。
MOOCs are vastly extending the reach of professors at some of the world’s best universities, particularly at Stanford, Harvard, M.I.T., Yale, Princeton, the University of Pennsylvania and Duke.
一流大学的教授在不断云集于MOOCs这个平台，尤其是斯坦福大学(Stanford)、哈佛大学(Harvard)、麻省理工学院(MIT)、耶鲁大学(Yale)、普林斯顿大学(Princeton)、宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)和杜克大学(Duke)的教授。
Ms. Niazi has been taking courses, free so far, from Udacity and Coursera, two of the earliest providers of this new form of instruction. Her latest enthusiasm is for astrobiology, because she is fascinated by U.F.O.’s and wants to become a physicist.
尼亚兹目前所上Udacity和Coursera的课程都是免费的，这两家公司是这种新型教育课程的最早的提供商。她最近的兴趣是天体生物学，因为她痴迷于UFO，并希望成为物理学家。
Education has long played a part in the annual deliberations here. But this time, many participants may have detected what Drew Gilpin Faust, Harvard’s president, described as “a lot of attention.”
教育一直是当年度头脑风暴盛会的话题之一。但这一次，很多与会人员可能已经察觉到为何哈佛大学校长德鲁·吉尔平·福斯特(Drew Gilpin Faust)将在线课程描述为“备受关注”。
The fast rise of MOOCs is one reason. Coursera, at Stanford, for example, has existed just a few months and now has 214 courses attracting 2.4 million students from 196 countries.
MOOCs的迅速崛起是其中一个原因。例如，斯坦福大学的Coursera仅开设了几个月，如今已拥有214门课程，吸引了196个国家的240万名学生。
Stanford, in Silicon Valley, has been the starting place for many well-regarded technology efforts, perhaps most notably Google. Still, questions swirl over the economic model that might eventually emerge to finance these online courses, which so far tend to be offered free in what amounts to a global test-marketing phase.
座落于硅谷的斯坦福大学一直是很多知名技术公司的摇篮，可能名气最大的莫过于谷歌(Google)。然而，人们对最终能否出现支撑在线课程的商业模式仍存在疑问。到目前为止，这些课程往往都是免费的，而这些公司如同置身于全球测试营销阶段。
There are many other unanswered pedagogical issues, too — can such courses teach the humanities, or ever grade a creative writing piece? — in envisioning the potential for further educating millions who previously had no access to this caliber of teaching.
尽管这些公司的愿景是为上千万从未接触过此类水平课程的人提供深造的机会，然而，这里也存在着很多其他悬而未决的教学问题——这些课程可以教授人文学科，甚至给创意性的写作打分吗？
“We don’t know where the next Albert Einstein is,” said Daphne Koller, a computer science professor at Stanford who, with a colleague, Andrew Ng, introduced Coursera last spring. “Maybe she lives in a small village in Africa.”
斯坦福计算机科学教授达芙妮·科勒(Daphne Koller)说：“我们不知道下一个阿尔伯特·爱因斯坦(Albert Einstein)会出现在何地。可能她就住在非洲的一个小村庄里。”达芙妮和她同事安德鲁·吴(Andrew Ng)于去年春天创建了Coursera公司。
Sebastian Thrun, another Stanford computer science professor who introduced Udacity after seeing more than 160,000 students sign up for an online class on artificial intelligence in the fall of 2011, predicted that this kind of learning would eventually upend American and perhaps other Western academic institutions.
另一位计算机科学教授塞巴斯蒂安·斯朗(Sebastian Thrun)于2011年秋季注意到，超过16万名学生注册参加了讲述人工智能的在线课程。他随后创办了Udacity，在斯朗看来，这种学习方式将最终可能为美国甚至其他西方学术院校带来颠覆性革命。
In a discussion after Ms. Niazi’s presentation, Lawrence H. Summers, the economist and former Harvard president, was more cautious. He acknowledged the potential for the courses “to be hugely transformative.”
在尼亚兹演讲结束后的讨论中，经济学家、哈佛大学前任校长劳伦斯·H·萨默斯(Lawrence H. Summers)表现出了较为审慎的态度。但他承认这种课程的潜在效应“拥有巨大变革性”。
But “what it means for American students is the smallest part of it,” he said. “This is going to take a lot of working out.”
但他同时表示：“在线课程对美国学生来说只占了微不足道的地位。还需要下很大的气力。”
Peter Thiel, an early investor in digital technology, said online learning meant that the best professors would eventually need to focus even more on their role as mentors to students they worked with in person.
数字技术的早期投资人彼得·蒂尔(Peter Thiel)表示，在线学习意味着，最好的教授最终将有必要将更多的精力放在与学生一对一的教学上。
That is one reason Mr. Thiel and others emphasized that elite universities, the incubators of the long-term research essential to most major discoveries, would still exist.
这也是蒂尔和其他人强调精英学府将仍然存在的原因之一。这些学府是长期研究的孵化器，对于大多数重大发现有着至关重要的推动作用。
Ms. Faust, in an interview, also emphasized the role of research and new ideas. Corporations are valuable sources of innovation, she said, but “they are living under the tyranny of quarterly reports and stock prices.”
福斯特在采访中也强调了研究和新理念的作用。她说，公司是创新的宝贵发源地，但是“他们却受到了季度财报和股价的牵制。”
A university expands thinking and research in ways “that may be unpredictable and may be long,” she said. But the cumulative effect of each new postdoctoral, graduate or undergraduate student attending a university like Harvard, whether physically or virtually, is accumulated wisdom and experimentation, she said.
她还说，大学拓展思维和研究的方式“可能是捉摸不透的，也可能是潜移默化的”。但是，每当新的博士后研究生、硕士研究生或本科生就读哈佛之类的大学时，不管是实体大学还是虚拟的，这总会创造累积效应，带来智慧和经验的日积月累。
Enterprising academic institutions have taken the lead in online learning. Harvard and M.I.T., for instance, worked together to introduce EdX, which offers free online courses from each university, last year. About 753,000 students have enrolled, with India, Brazil, Pakistan and Russia among the top 10 countries from which people are participating.
富于进取的学术机构在创建在线课程方面走在了前沿。例如，哈佛和麻省理工学院于去年合作创办了Edx，免费提供这两所大学的在线课程。约75.3万名学生注册加入了Edx。就学生的国别而言，排名前十的国家包括印度、巴西和俄罗斯。
Also at Davos were officials from the new Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology in Russia. The institute, also known as Skoltech, recruited a longtime M.I.T. professor, Edward F. Crawley, to aid its efforts to rival research institutions around the world and has welcomed its first 75 graduate students.
俄罗斯新成立的斯科尔科沃科技研究所(Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology)的官员也来到了达沃斯。该研究所又称Skoltech，它聘用了长期在麻省理工学院任教的教授爱德华·F·克罗利(Edward F. Crawley)，以帮助该研究所与世界其他研究机构进行竞争。该研究所已迎来了首批75名研究生。
China’s best universities were also advertising their courses, although Chinese academics said that outside elite institutions in Beijing and Shanghai, the Chinese emphasis on rote learning could not compete yet with more interactive education in the West.
中国最好的大学也在宣传其课程，虽然中国的学术界人士表示，除了北京和上海的知名高校以外，中国侧重于机械式学习的教育方式仍无法与西方侧重于互动式学习的教学方式进行竞争。
Dr. Koller said the value of a postgraduate education, no matter where it was gained, was shifting fast. “We have passed the stage in history,” she said, “where what you learn in college can last you for a lifetime.” After 15 years, she added, that learning is “obsolete.”
科勒博士表示，研究生教育的价值正在迅速变化，而且与学习的地点无关。她说，“前人曾认为，在大学学到的东西会影响你的一生，但这种想法已经落伍了。”她还说，15年后，在大学学到的东西将会“过时”。
Top British universities like Oxford and Cambridge are also experimenting with online courses, which they promoted here.
包括牛津(Oxford)和剑桥(Cambridge)在内的英国顶尖学府同样在尝试在线课程。这些学校也在达沃斯宣传他们的在线课程。
Because government financing plays a large part in European institutions, both Andrew Hamilton, the vice chancellor of Oxford, and Leszek Borysiewicz, his counterpart at Cambridge, emphasized the paramount need to sustain long-term research.
由于政府资助是欧洲院校重要的经济来源，因此，牛津大学校长安德鲁·汉密尔顿(Andrew Hamilton)和剑桥大学校长里扎克·波利斯维奇(Leszek Borysiewicz)都强调，保持研究的长期性是当务之急。
In medicine, Mr. Borysiewicz argued, the span from the germ of a new idea to the bedside is typically about 17 years.
波利斯维奇表示，在医学界，从新想法诞生到临床应用一般需要17年的时间。
That requires long-term thought, akin to the studiously elite admissions policies and research skills that have kept Britain’s top two universities among the world’s best for hundreds of years.
因此这要求学校具有长远的眼光，一如这两所大学所刻意采取的精英招生政策和所具有的研究实力，而正是这些政策和实力确保了英国这两所顶尖大学在长达数百年的时间中一直跻身于世界最优秀大学之列。