DALLAS — The sniper who fatally shot five police officers in Dallas was believed to be planning a larger attack, the city’s police chief said Sunday, providing new details of how the gunman had been singing, laughing and taunting officers during prolonged negotiations before he was killed by a bomb-equipped robot.
达拉斯——达拉斯警察局局长周日表示，在该市枪杀五名警察的狙击手据信曾计划进行一场规模更大的袭击。局长提供了一些新的细节，显示在持续很长时间的谈判中，凶手在唱歌、大笑并奚落警方，直到被配备炸弹的机器人炸死。
David O. Brown, the police chief, said that evidence showed that Micah Johnson, 25, an African-American Army Reserve veteran who told the police that he wanted kill white officers, had been practicing detonations and that the explosive material had the potential “to have devastating effects throughout our city and our North Texas area.”
现年25岁的陆军预备役退伍军人、非裔美国人迈卡·约翰逊(Micah Johnson)告诉警方，他想杀害白人警察。达拉斯警察局局长戴维·O·布朗(David O. Brown)称，有证据显示约翰逊在练习引爆，而这些爆炸物有“炸毁我们的城市和德州北部地区”的潜力。
“We’re convinced this suspect had other plans and thought that what he was doing was righteous,” Brown said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” He said he believed Johnson’s aim was to “make us pay for what he sees as law enforcement’s efforts to punish people of color,” including the fatal police shootings of African-Americans in Louisiana and Minnesota.
“我们确信这名嫌疑人还有其他计划，而且认为自己的所作所为是正义的，”布朗在CNN的《美国国情》节目(State of the Union)中说道。他表示，他认为约翰逊的目标是“让我们为在他看来是执法部门惩罚有色人种的行为付出代价”，其中包括路易斯安那和明尼苏达两州发生的警察击毙非裔美国人的案件。
Those deaths, the chief said, prompted Johnson to “fast-track his plans” to kill police officers. Brown said Johnson “was intent on hurting more of us.”
布朗称，这些人的死亡促使约翰逊“提前实施了”杀害警察的“计划”。他还提到，约翰逊“有意伤害我们当中的更多人”。
In his television appearance, Brown provided new details of the two hours of negotiations that the police conducted with Johnson, saying he had demanded to speak to a black negotiator, had sung and laughed, and had asked how many officers he had killed.
在电视上露面时，布朗提供了警方与约翰逊进行的两小时谈判中的一些新细节——他要求与黑人谈判者对话，他唱歌、大笑，还问自己杀死了几名警察。
Brown said Sunday that once the protesters started to march in downtown Dallas Thursday evening, Johnson had driven his vehicle, a black Chevrolet Tahoe, well ahead of the group to prepare for the attack on police officers escorting the demonstrators.
布朗周日表示，周四夜间抗议者一进入达拉斯下城游行，约翰逊便驾驶自己的黑色雪佛兰Tahoe，远远超过抗议者，提前准备针对护送抗议人群的警察的袭击。
“You could easily see the march coming down the street they were walking, and saw an opportunity with some high-perched positions, a couple of buildings in the pathway of the marchers, and decided to take the high ground and start shooting right away,” Brown said. “And we had to scramble to block intersections, which did expose our officers to this attack. And this suspect took advantage of that. And once he was in a high-perched position, officers did not know where the shots was coming from.”
“他可以很容易看到游行队伍从那条街道走过来，看到他们途经的地方有些高层位置、几栋建筑能找到机会，于是决定利用高处的有利位置立刻开始射击，”布朗说。“我们当时不得不去抢先封锁路口，这的确让我们的警察暴露于枪口之下。嫌疑人利用了这一点。一旦他处在高位，警方就无从判断子弹是从哪里射出的。”