In a few days, we’ll reach the fifth anniversary of the fall of Lehman Brothers — the moment when a recession, which was bad enough, turned into something much scarier. Suddenly, we were looking at the real possibility of economic catastrophe.
再过几天，雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)破产的五周年纪念日就到了。雷曼兄弟的破产标志着一场已经够糟糕的衰退，转变成了某种更可怕的事情。突然之间，我们看到了发生经济灾难的真切可能性。
And the catastrophe came.
而灾难的确来了。
Wait, you say, what catastrophe? Weren’t people warning about a second Great Depression? And that didn’t happen, did it? Yes, they were, and no, it didn’t — although the Greeks, the Spaniards, and others might not agree about that second point. The important thing, however, is to realize that there are degrees of disaster, that you can have an immense failure of economic policy that falls short of producing total collapse. And the failure of policy these past five years has, in fact, been immense.
你或许会说，等等，什么灾难？人们不是都警惕地谈及第二次“大萧条”(Great Depression)吗，而所谓的大萧条也并没有发生，对吧？没错，他们是那样警告的，而且也的确没有发生大萧条——尽管希腊、西班牙，以及其他国家或许不会同意第二点。不过，一个很重要的问题是，要认识到灾难有不同的程度，经济政策即使出现巨大失败，也可能不会引发全盘崩溃。而实际上过去五年间政策的失败程度的确十分重严重。
Some of that immensity can be measured in dollars and cents. Reasonable measures of the “output gap” over the past five years — the difference between the value of goods and services America could and should have produced and what it actually produced — run well over $2 trillion. That’s trillions of dollars of pure waste, which we will never get back.
在某些方面，可以用美元和美分来衡量失败有多么巨大。过去五年中，合理估算的“经济产出差额”(output gap)——也就是美国本来可以、也应该产出的产品和服务的价值，与实际产出的产品和服务的价值之间的差距——远远超过了2万亿美元。这可是白白浪费掉，再也拿不回来的2万亿美元啊。
Behind that financial waste lies an even more tragic waste of human potential. Before the financial crisis, 63 percent of adult Americans were employed; that number quickly plunged to less than 59 percent, and there it remains.
除了浪费金钱之外，对人的潜能的浪费更是一种悲哀。在金融危机之前，63%的美国成年人有工作，这个数字迅速降到了59%以下，至今如此。
How did that happen? It wasn’t a mass outbreak of laziness, and right-wing claims that jobless Americans aren’t trying hard enough to find work because they’re living high on food stamps and unemployment benefits should be treated with the contempt they deserve. A bit of the decline in employment can be attributed to an aging population, but the rest reflects, as I said, an immense failure of economic policy.
为什么会发生这种情况？并不是因为懒惰症大爆发。右翼人士声称，美国失业人群因为靠食品券和失业福利过得很滋润，所以找工作不够努力，对这种论调应当给予理所当然的鄙视。就业率的下降有一小部分可以归咎于人口老龄化，但其余部分，正如我所说的，源于经济政策的巨大失败。
Set aside the politics for a moment, and ask what the past five years would have looked like if the U.S. government had actually been able and willing to do what textbook macroeconomics says it should have done — namely, make a big enough push for job creation to offset the effects of the financial crunch and the housing bust, postponing fiscal austerity and tax increases until the private sector was ready to take up the slack. I’ve done a back-of-the-envelope calculation of what such a program would have entailed: It would have been about three times as big as the stimulus we actually got, and would have been much more focused on spending rather than tax cuts.
暂且把政治问题放在一边，考虑一下这个问题：如果美国政府的确有意愿做，也做到了宏观经济学课本上提出的做法，过去五年的形势会如何？也就是说，付出足够大的努力去推动创造就业，从而冲抵金融危机和房地产市场崩盘产生的影响，此外再将财政紧缩和增税举措推迟到私营部门站稳脚跟时再实行。我曾经粗略地计算过这一套举措会产生什么效果：其规模会是我们实际得到的刺激规模的三倍，而且会更关注于支出，而不是减税。
Would such a policy have worked? All the evidence of the past five years says yes. The Obama stimulus, inadequate as it was, stopped the economy’s plunge in 2009. Europe’s experiment in anti-stimulus — the harsh spending cuts imposed on debtor nations — didn’t produce the promised surge in private-sector confidence. Instead, it produced severe economic contraction, just as textbook economics predicted. Government spending on job creation would, indeed, have created jobs.
这样的政策能够奏效吗？过去五年里所有的证据都表明它能奏效。奥巴马的经济刺激，尽管并不充足，但也在2009年停止了经济的衰退。欧洲反刺激的实验，即迫使债务国实施的严厉开支削减措施，并没有像承诺的那样，促进私营部门的信心。相反，正如经济学课本里预计的，还造成了严重的经济收缩。而政府花钱创造就业，就的确能创造就业岗位。
But wouldn’t the kind of spending program I’m suggesting have meant more debt? Yes — according to my rough calculation, at this point federal debt held by the public would have been about $1 trillion more than it actually is. But alarmist warnings about the dangers of modestly higher debt have proved false. Meanwhile, the economy would also have been stronger, so that the ratio of debt to G.D.P. — the usual measure of a country’s fiscal position — would have been only a few points higher. Does anyone seriously think that this difference would have provoked a fiscal crisis?
然而我提出的这种开支方案不会加剧债务吗？会的，根据我的粗略计算，如果那样的话到现在由公众持有的联邦债务，会比当前的实际水平高1万亿美元。然而事实证明，对于债务水平略微提高而提出的危言耸听的警告，并不成立。与此同时，经济也会走强，而债务与GDP的比值（衡量一国财政状况的指标）的确也会提高，但只有几个百分点。真的有人会认为这么一点差异会引发财政危机吗？
And, on the other side of the ledger, we would be a richer nation, with a brighter future — not a nation where millions of discouraged Americans have probably dropped permanently out of the labor force, where millions of young Americans have probably seen their lifetime career prospects permanently damaged, where cuts in public investment have inflicted long-term damage on our infrastructure and our educational system.
而在账簿的另一侧，这个国家也会变得更富裕，前景更光明——而不像现在，数以百万计的失意民众可能永久性地退出了劳动者的行列；数以百万计的年轻人可能已经发现，一生的职业规划受到了永久的损坏；公共投资的削减对基础设施和教育体系产生了长期的损害。
Look, I know that as a political matter an adequate job-creation program was never a real possibility. And it’s not just the politicians who fell short: Many economists, instead of pointing the way toward a solution of the jobs crisis, became part of the problem, fueling exaggerated fears of inflation and debt.
我明白，作为政治问题，充分的就业促进计划压根就没有实质上的可能性。而且出现失误的也不仅是政治人物，许多经济学家非但没有指出一条创造就业的解决方案，反而成了问题的一部分，助长了对于通胀和债务的恐惧。
Still, I think it’s important to realize how badly policy failed and continues to fail. Right now, Washington seems divided between Republicans who denounce any kind of government action — who insist that all the policies and programs that mitigated the crisis actually made it worse — and Obama loyalists who insist that they did a great job because the world didn’t totally melt down.
然而我还是认为，认识到政策失误之严重，而且错误仍在继续，是很重要的一步。现在共和党人与奥巴马的忠诚者似乎已经把华盛顿分裂了。不管政府做什么举动，前者都会谴责，他们坚持认为所有意在缓解危机的政策和项目，实际上都加剧了危机；而后者则坚持称他们做的不错，因为世界并没有完全崩溃。
Obviously, the Obama people are less wrong than the Republicans. But, by any objective standard, U.S. economic policy since Lehman has been an astonishing, horrifying failure.
显然，奥巴马周围的人错得没有共和党人离谱。但无论以何种客观标准衡量，自雷曼兄弟倒闭以来的美国经济政策都是一场骇人的、可怕的失败。