It is one of the twice-told tales of the music business: Decades ago, Michael Jackson received some sound investment advice from Paul McCartney.
这又是音乐界的一个老故事了：几十年前，迈克尔·杰克逊(Michael Jackson)从保罗·麦卡特尼(Paul McCartney)口中得到一个极为明智的投资建议。
Back in the early 1980s, Mr. McCartney showed his friend a notebook full of songs he owned, by artists like Buddy Holly. The real money, Mr. McCartney suggested, was in music publishing, the side of the business that deals with the songwriting rights for big catalogs of songs. As Mr. McCartney himself has told it, Jackson perked up and said, “I’m gonna buy your songs.”
那是80年代初的事，麦卡特尼给杰克逊看了一个笔记本，上面都是他拥有版权的歌曲，有巴迪·霍利(Buddy Holly)等人的歌。麦卡特尼说，这个行业里，真正的大钱在音乐版权发行业。根据麦卡特尼的说法，杰克逊一下子兴奋起来，说，“那我就要买你的歌。”
He did. And it was the smartest deal Jackson ever made.
他确实这么做了，这可以算是杰克逊做过的最聪明的一笔交易了。
In 1985, Jackson bought the ATV catalog, which included 251 Beatles songs, along with a few thousand others, for $47.5 million. It proved to be Jackson’s most valuable asset, helping to finance a lavish lifestyle even as Jackson’s own musical career reached a low point in the years before his death in 2009.
1985年，杰克逊以4750万美元买下了ATV公司的曲目，其中包括251首“披头士”(Beatles)的歌曲和其他几千首歌。这被证明是杰克逊名下最有价值的资产，甚至当杰克逊的音乐生涯在2009年去世前跌入低谷期间，这笔资产还保证他能过着奢华的生活。
Now those songs have helped provide a windfall for his estate. On Monday, Sony said it had agreed to pay $750 million for the Jackson estate’s share of what is now Sony/ATV — a collection of more than a million songs, with hits by Taylor Swift and Lady Gaga, chestnuts like “Moon River” and “Mona Lisa,” and of course the Beatles songs.
现在这些歌曲仍然为他的遗产带来意外之财。星期一，索尼宣布，它已同意为杰克逊的遗产份额支付7.5亿美元（该公司如今名为Sony/ATV公司）。该曲库名下拥有100万多首歌曲，其中包括泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)与Lady Gaga的金曲、《月亮河》(Moon River)、《蒙娜·丽莎》(Mona Lisa)等老歌，当然，也有“披头士”的歌曲。
Sony’s buyout caps an extraordinary turnaround in Jackson’s finances that began after his death. Jackson died more than $500 million in debt, having drawn on his share of Sony/ATV as a lifeline through a $270 million loan in 2006, years after his last hit but shortly after he was acquitted of child molestation in a trial that damaged his public image around the world. By then, Jackson — who once tried to buy the bones of Joseph Merrick, better known as the Elephant Man, and sometimes racked up bills of $250,000 shopping for antiques — was living well beyond his means.
杰克逊去世后，他的财产开始出现急剧变化，索尼的这次收购将此推上顶峰。杰克逊去世时身负5亿美元的债务，他抵押自己在Sony/ATV的股份，贷款2.7亿美元，以此维持生活。他去世时，距离他上一次推出金曲已经过去多年，但不久前他被控告性侵儿童的案件极大地损毁了他在全球的形象。那时候杰克逊还曾经试图购买“象人”约瑟夫·梅里克(Joseph Merrick)的骨头，时不时会斥资25万美元买古董，过着入不敷出的奢华生活。
After Jackson died, on the eve of a series of concerts in London that he had hoped would be a comeback, sales of Jackson’s music spiked around the world. His estate, led by his longtime lawyer John Branca and the music executive John McClain, made a series of lucrative deals that stabilized the Jackson finances.
杰克逊在一系列旨在复出的伦敦演唱会前夕去世，此后他的唱片销量在全球达到了顶峰。他的遗产由他的长期律师约翰·布兰卡(John Branca)与音乐执行人约翰·麦克莱因(John McClain)掌管，他们做了一系列有利可图的交易，稳定了杰克逊的财产状况。
Sony Pictures paid $60 million for the rights to “Michael Jackson’s This Is It,” drawn from rehearsal video from the London concerts. Other deals were lined up for Jackson’s recording rights with Sony Music, for two theatrical shows by Cirque du Soleil and in areas like merchandising and video games.
索尼影业花6000万美元购买了《迈克尔·杰克逊：就是这样》(Michael Jackson’s This Is It)的版权，它是由伦敦演唱会的彩排录像剪辑而成。其他交易还包括把杰克逊的录音版权卖给索尼音乐，以及两次太阳马戏团的剧场演出，还有特许商品经营权和视频游戏方面的权利。
The Jackson estate has long since paid off most of Jackson’s personal debts. But the latest deal will allow it to clear its last obligation, a $250 million debt that was tied to Jackson’s holdings in Sony/ATV.
杰克逊遗产委员会早已还清大部分杰克逊生前的个人债务。但最新的这笔交易令它可以偿还最后一笔债务：与杰克逊在Sony/ATV的股份有关的2.5亿美元债务。
According to its most recent public accounting, the estate generated $600 million in gross earnings through the end of 2013. With its earnings since then, the estate is estimated to have earned more than $800 million. But the deal for the song catalog could now push those earnings above $1 billion, a big return for a financial move that began as a simple conversation between two music legends.
根据遗产委员会最近公布的情况，在2013年年底，遗产委员会赚了大约6亿美元。再算上从那以后赚的钱，委员会已经赚了8亿多美元。但是目前这笔歌曲版权交易令委员会赚的钱超过10亿美元。自此，杰克逊的财富又回到了高峰，而这一切都是从两位音乐传奇的一次小小对话开始的。