TOKYO — From the moment in September when Tokyo won the tight race to host the 2020 Summer Olympics, locals have been unleashing ideas — some far-fetched, others tantalizingly imaginable — of what the city will offer the more than 10 million spectators expected to attend the Games.
东京——9月份，东京在激烈角逐中胜出，获得2020年夏季奥运会主办权，自那一刻起，东京人就开始迸发各种想法：这座城市能给预计要来观看奥运会的超过1000万观众准备些什么呢？这些想法中有的不切实际，有的则触手可及，让人兴奋不已。
Self-driving cars are a given, auto enthusiasts say, perhaps reserved to whiz V.I.P.’s on designated lanes through the traffic-choked capital. To help hoi polloi navigate the city, buses powered by fuel cells will be commonplace, the futurists say. Older people in the graying country might wear robot suits to get around. Next-generation translation services, streamed through wearable technology, will help locals communicate with foreign guests. And perhaps there will be some climate engineering to ease the heat and wretched humidity of the Tokyo summer.
汽车迷们说，肯定会出现自动驾驶汽车，也许会供那些VIP客人使用，载着他们从专门车道上飞速穿越这个交通拥挤的首都。而未来主义者称，要帮助普通民众在城市里穿行，燃料电池驱动的巴士到时会很普遍。在这个老龄化国家，老年人可能会穿着机器人服出门。而可佩戴式科技设备传送的下一代翻译服务会帮助当地人和外国游客沟通。可能还会进行一些气候工程来缓解东京夏天的高温和令人难以忍受的潮湿。
But there are also worries about the future. Tokyo, with 13 million people, is one of the world’s most disaster-prone cities — earthquakes, typhoons, tsunamis and storm surges. Experts worry about the effects shifting weather patterns will have on the Tokyo Bay section where many of its new Olympics venues will be built.
但也有对未来的担忧。1300万人口的东京是世界上最容易受灾的城市之一——地震、台风、海啸和风暴潮。专家们担心变化的天气形势会对东京湾地区产生影响，而日本将在那里建设许多新的奥运场馆。
“There’s no city in the world like Tokyo,” said Hiroyuki Hayashi, a spokesman for the government’s “FutureCity” initiative, which was introduced in 2010 to explore future approaches to urbanization. “It leads in both possibilities and challenges.”
“世界上没有另外一座像东京这样的城市，”政府下属“环保未来城市”(FutureCity)项目的发言人林弘之(Hiroyuki Hayashi)说。2010年，政府推出了这一项目来探索未来的城市化道路。“这里有很多可能性，也充满了挑战。”
Tokyo fancies itself a city of the future. A similar theme resonated the last time it hosted the Summer Olympics in 1964. It had climbed out of the ashes of World War II and was presenting a shining new image to the world with multiple subway lines, a modern airport and its bullet train system, then the fastest in the world. The country demonstrated its emergence as a technological leader by broadcasting the Olympics live by satellite for the first time.
东京把自己定位为未来之城。上次它举办1964年夏季奥运会时就出现了类似的主题。东京从第二次世界大战的废墟中崛起，并以多条地铁线、现代的机场和当时全球速度最快的高速列车系统向世界展示了焕然一新的面貌。通过首次卫星直播奥运会，日本也向世界表明它已成为科技界的领军者。
This time, Japan wants to show a vibrant country, re-emerging from the pain of decades of recession to reclaim its position as a driving force in high technology.
这次，日本想要向世人展现出一个生机勃勃的国家，从数十年经济衰退的痛苦中站起来，要重新夺回它在高科技行业先驱者的地位。
For Hisashi Taniguchi, chief executive of the Tokyo-based robotics company ZMP, the Olympics will be the catalyst Japan needs to leap ahead of other countries in building driverless cars. Google and BMW are also working on autonomous car technology, which experts say is safer and cleaner and leads to fewer traffic jams because of computer-controlled efficient driving. Although big Japanese automakers like Nissan, Toyota and Honda are also working on the same technology, as are smaller Japanese companies like ZMP, the technology has not yet been showcased by a Japanese carmaker in any major way.
对于位于东京的机器人公司ZMP的首席执行官谷口恒(Hisashi Taniguchi)来说，奥运会将成为日本在生产无人驾驶汽车上超越其他国家所需要的催化剂。谷歌(Google)和宝马(BMW)也在努力研发自动驾驶汽车技术，专家称由于是电脑控制的高效驾驶，该技术更安全、清洁，也会减少交通拥堵。尽管和ZMP等小型日本企业一样，尼桑(Nissan)、丰田(Toyota)和本田(Honda)等日本大型汽车制造商也在开发同一技术，但目前还没有一家日本汽车制造商在该技术上取得了重大突破。
Then, of course, this being Japan, there are the gadgets.
此外，日本的奥运会当然少不了小玩意儿。
Takahito Iguchi, founder of Telepathy, a start-up, envisions a Games where visitors could constantly live-stream what they see with wearable devices like the company’s Telepathy One headset, which floats a microprojector and camera in front of one eye. The first version is expected this year, giving it time to catch on.
初创企业Telepathy的创始人井口崇仁（Takahito Iguchi，音译）想象了这样一场奥运会：观众可以不停地在他们的可佩戴电子设备上（比如该公司生产的“心电感应一号”耳机[Telepathy One headset]，这个设备会包括悬浮在一只眼前面的微型投影仪和相机）现场直播他们看到的东西。Telepathy预计将于今年推出第一款设备，让它有时间为人们所接受。
NTT DoCoMo, Japan’s largest cellphone carrier, has introduced “instant translation” glasses that use cameras, text recognition technology and translation software to render Japanese signs, menus and whatever else its wearers see into the visitors’ language. The company also plans to have its cellphone service ready to process data 100 times faster than current networks.
日本最大的手机运营商NTT都科摩公司(NTT DoCoMo)推出了“即时翻译”眼镜，使用相机、文字识别技术和翻译软件来把日本标语、菜单以及佩戴者所看到的任何其他东西转换成游客的母语。该公司还计划推出比现有网络数据处理速度快100倍的手机服务。
The futurists also envision wireless charging stations everywhere, flexible displays that will turn a variety of surfaces into information hubs and television featuring “super hi-vision” that is 16 times the level of detail of current high-definition TVs.
未来主义者还想象，未来到处都会有无线充电站，弹性显示屏的出现会将多种界面变成信息中心和有着超高清画面质量的电视，其清晰度是现在高清电视的16倍。
“Japan still has great technology, and the Olympics gives people like us license to suggest wild ideas,” Mr. Iguchi said.
“日本仍有很棒的技术，奥运会将赋予我们这样的人提出各种疯狂想法的自由，”井口崇仁说。
For some living in Tokyo, preparation for the Games is less about chasing utopian dreams and more about addressing the grave challenges the city faces. For all the talk of renewable energy, the nuclear crisis at Fukushima, 160 miles north of Tokyo, is not yet under control. There is a big question mark over Japan’s future energy policy. Much of the city’s newest developments are centered on the vulnerable coast.
对于东京的一些居民来说，与追求乌托邦式的梦想相比，为奥运会做准备更多是为了应对该市面临的严峻挑战。尽管对再生能源进行了很多讨论，但福岛核危机尚未得到控制，福岛距离东京160英里（约合258公里）。日本未来的能源政策面临一个大问题。东京许多最新的开发项目都集中在易受影响的沿海地区。
Tokyo must spend the next seven years retrofitting its older buildings with Japan’s advanced earthquake technology, strengthening the city’s flood gates and updating its aging expressways, experts say. Tokyo could show the way forward in urban renewal, too. It recently used advanced “stealth demolition” technology — jacking down a building rather than blowing it up — to raze an old skyscraper in central Tokyo.
专家表示，未来七年，东京必须用日本先进的抗震技术翻新老旧建筑，加固该市的防洪闸，翻修老化的高速公路。东京还可以展示城市重建方面的未来趋势。该市最近利用了先进的“隐形拆除”技术——借助千斤顶拆除建筑，而不是爆破——将东京市中心的一座摩天大楼夷为平地。
The aging population is also a challenge for Japan. Though the Olympic committee promotes Tokyo as a center for youth culture, one in five Tokyoites are already 65 or older, and the government estimates that ratio will rise to one in four by the time the Olympic torch arrives. Current forecasts suggest that demographically, 2020 could be Tokyo’s last hurrah; after that, the city’s population could enter a long decline.
人口老龄化也是日本面临的一个挑战。虽然奥委会宣传东京是青年文化的中心，但五分之一的东京市民已满65岁，或者更老，政府估计奥运火炬到达东京的时候，这个比率将会提高到四分之一。目前的预测显示，从人口统计来看，2020年将是东京最后的高歌。在那以后，东京的人口数量将进入持久的下降期。
The robot maker Cyberdyne thinks its robotic suits will help older Japanese and visitors get around during the games. Its Hybrid Assistive Limb is a battery-powered pair of legs that anticipates and augments body movements. Since 2010, the company has leased about 400 suits to 170 hospitals and nursing homes in Japan.
机器人生产商Cyberdyne认为，他们的机器人套装能够帮助日本老年人和游客在奥运会期间游玩观光。该公司生产的“混合辅助义肢”(Hybrid Assistive Limb)是一对由电池供电的辅助下肢，能够预判并增强身体的运动。自2010年以来，该公司已经向日本的170家医院和养老院出租了大约400套义肢。
Some Tokyoites are concerned that the city’s remaking will go too far. The redevelopment of some of Tokyo’s most beloved neighborhoods is already underway, including the relocation of Tokyo’s Tsukiji Fish Market. Some question whether the city of 13 million really needs an expensive new 80,000-seat Olympic Stadium — wildly futuristic in design as it is — when its population is expected to shrink.
一些东京市民担心重塑城市的工作会过度。东京一些最受喜爱的社区已经开始进行重建，比如东京筑地渔市场(Tsukiji Fish Market)的搬迁工作。东京有1300万人口，鉴于人口将不断减少，有人质疑这座城市是否真的需要一个造价高昂、能够容纳8万人的新奥林匹克体育馆，这座场馆的设计极具未来派风格。
Christian Dimmer, an urban designer and assistant professor at Tokyo University, said that if Tokyo’s population was declining, it could ill afford the white elephants that have come to haunt previous Olympic hosts.
城市规划师、东京大学(Tokyo University)助理教授克里斯蒂安·迪默(Christian Dimmer)表示，如果东京的人口数量不断下降，它将无法承担这些耗资巨大但意义不大的工程，过去的奥运会主办城市就曾背负过这样的负担。
“It’s important to understand that the Games are a means to achieve a more resilient, self-reliant society and not as an end in itself,” he said. “That would be a terrible waste of resources.”
“举办奥运会本身不是目的，它只是构筑一个更有韧性、能自力更生的社会的途径，理解这一点非常重要，”他说。“否则的话就会是对资源的严重浪费。”