In the days before the London Marathon last year, scientists from the Research Group in Breast Health at the University of Portsmouth in England approached female racers at the event’s registration center and asked them to complete an anonymous questionnaire about their exercise habits and breast health.
在去年的伦敦马拉松开赛几天前，来自英国朴茨茅斯大学(University of Portsmouth)乳房健康研究小组的科研人员们来到赛会注册中心，找到了参赛女选手，并请她们完成有关运动习惯与乳房健康的匿名问卷调查。
Sore breasts are a common experience among women of all ages and sizes, athletes and nonathletes alike.
在各个年龄段、各种体型、运动习惯各异的女性中，乳房疼痛是一种常见的经历。
But scientists had not examined whether and to what extent exercise contributes to breast pain and, conversely, whether and to what extent breast pain alters how women exercise.
但科研人员此前并不了解运动是否与乳房疼痛有关，有多大的关联，反之，他们也不了解乳房疼痛是否影响了女性参与运动，影响程度如何。
So they surveyed almost 1,300 of the women registered for the race and learned, as their new study, published in March in The British Journal of Sports Medicine, makes clear, that exercise does significantly impact breast pain and vice versa.
于是他们调查了近1300位报名参加赛事的女选手，他们的这项新研究发现，运动确实显著造成了乳房疼痛，反之亦然。这项报告刊登在了《英国运动医学学刊》(The British Journal of Sports Medicine)3月号杂志上。
It should surprise no one, of course, that exercise influences breasts, just as it does virtually every tissue in the male and female body.
当然，得知运动会影响乳房，肯定没人会大为惊奇，毕竟运动事实上会影响男性与女性身体的每一个组织。
Female breast tissue is unusual, however, being weighty, even in small-breasted women, but with little natural anatomical support. As a result, unconstrained breasts move independently when a woman does, and that movement is exacerbated during exercise.
不过，女性的乳房组织不同寻常，就算是小罩杯的女性乳房依然很沉重，但它却几乎得不到任何自然的解剖学支撑。因此，当女性移动时，未受约束的乳房也会随之任意移动，在运动中这样的摆动还会进一步加剧。
Earlier motion-capture research by the Portsmouth scientists established that unsupported female breasts — that is, those not contained within a bra — oscillate as much as eight inches in space when a woman runs, and not just up and down, but also side to side, forward and backward.
由朴茨茅斯大学科研人员在早前进行的动作捕捉研究显示，未受支撑的女性乳房——也就是说，没有用胸罩包裹——在女性跑步时，移动幅度最高可达8英寸（合20厘米），而且还不仅仅是上下弹动，同时会左右前后跃动。
Even when the volunteers wore a standard sports bra, the scientists found their breasts often continued to sway considerably during running.
就算志愿者身穿标准的运动内衣，研究者发现她们在跑步时，胸部的摆动幅度有时依然相当大。
But whether this breast motion was linked to later soreness was unclear.
不过，乳房的活动跟随后疼痛之间的联系仍然不得而知。
Which is why the researchers now set out to examine the real-world consequences of being an active woman and having sore breasts.
因此研究人员现在开始着手调查，女性从事运动与乳房疼痛是否存在确切的因果关系。
“It is an important quality of life issue for women,” said Nicola Brown, a member of the Research Group in Breast Health at Portsmouth, a lecturer in exercise science at Saint Mary’s University College in London and the lead author of the study.
“对于女性，这是一个重要的生活质量问题，”朴茨茅斯大学乳房健康研究小组成员尼可拉·布朗(Nicola Brown)说。她是伦敦圣玛丽大学学院(Saint Mary’s University College)运动科学系的讲师，也是该研究的主要作者。
It is also an issue with too many dimensions to effectively study in a single laboratory experiment, so the scientists decided instead to survey a cross section of active women. And contrary to popular belief, a cross section of active women is what the registration roll of a major marathon conveniently provides.
这个问题所涵盖的尺寸规格实在是太多，因此无法在单个的实验室试验中进行有效测量，所以科学家们决定取而代之，研究运动女性的一个横截面。跟通常的猜测不同，运动女性的横截面恰恰能从一场大型马拉松赛会的报名册中便利地获取到。
“Some people have the perception that female marathon runners” are all slender and boyish, as elite racers often are, “and don’t have breasts,” Dr. Brown said, but she and her collaborators focused their study on the London Marathon’s “mass-participation runners, who are a variety of shapes and sizes,” she said.
“一些人认为，女性马拉松选手个个都身材苗条，跟男人一样，而且还都是平胸，而精英选手往往确实如此，”布朗博士说。但她和伦敦马拉松这项试验的合作者们发现，“参加比赛的大众选手，其体型和身材相差迥异，”她说。
When the scientists analyzed the surveys from these runners, they found that they had data about women with 56 different bra sizes, from an AA cup to an HH and chest-band sizes from 28 to 40 inches. The women ranged widely in body weight, too, with the average being about 148 pounds.
科研人员分析选手的数据时发现，这些女性的胸部大小可分为56个不同的尺寸，罩杯大小从AA到HH都有，而胸下围大小在28到40英寸（合71到102）之间。这些女性的体重相差也很大，平均体重则为148磅（合67公斤）。
More than 90 percent reported that they always wore a bra, including during exercise.
超过9成受访者表示，她们一直身穿胸罩，在运动时也不例外。
But these active women were not immune from breast pain. More than a third reported that their breasts were frequently were sore, although not necessarily because of exercise. Sore breasts most commonly were because of hormonal changes associated with the menstrual cycle, the runners reported.
这些运动女性并不能从乳房疼痛中幸免。其中超过三分之一的人说，她们的乳房频繁疼痛，不过这倒并不一定跟运动有关。她们自己表示，乳房痛通常是因与月经周期相关的荷尔蒙变化引起。
The incidence of breast pain was highest among the women with the largest breasts. More than half of those wearing an F cup or larger reported frequent breast pain. But smaller-breasted women also were affected; about 25 percent of those who wore an A cup or smaller said that their breasts often were sore.
在乳房最丰满的女性中，发生疼痛的频率最高。罩杯达到F或以上的女性中，有超过半数表示乳房频繁疼痛。不过乳房较小的女性同样会疼痛；约有25%A罩杯或更小的女性说，她们的乳房常常疼痛。
Motherhood reduced the likelihood that a woman would report breast pain, perhaps, the authors speculate, because pregnancy and breast-feeding alter the composition of the breasts.
成为母亲会减少女性感觉胸部疼痛的可能性，研究者推测，这可能是因为怀孕和哺乳可改变乳房的结构。
What the researchers found particularly striking was that, for many of the women, exercise induced or aggravated breast soreness and, in consequence, breast pain often altered how the women trained. About a quarter of those with sore breasts said that they reduced the intensity of their workouts when their breasts hurt — walking in lieu of running, for example — while others skipped exercise altogether.
研究人员发现的最为令人震惊的一点在于，对很多女性来说，运动会导致或恶化乳房疼痛，因此，乳房疼痛往往会改变女性的运动方式。约四分之一胸部疼痛的女性说，在感到乳房疼时，她们会减少训练强度——比如用走代替跑——其他人则会彻底放弃训练。
In aggregate, Dr. Brown said the results suggest that exercise-related breast pain can compromise the quality and quantity of physical activity for many women.
布朗博士说，总体来说，研究结果显示，与运动相关的乳房疼痛会影响到很多女性从事体育锻炼的质量与数量。
Of course, many of us might consider that a self-evident finding — anecdotal evidence suggests that my friends and I complain all the time about how our breasts feel when we’re running. But this is the first study to formally examine and validate the issue.
当然了，我们中的很多人或许都觉得这是个不证自明的发现——我和闺蜜们一直在抱怨跑步时胸部感觉有多么不舒服。可是这是第一项正式对此进行研究、并证实关联确切存在的研究。
It also, Dr. Brown said, “highlights the importance and significance of research into the treatment of breast pain.” A well-fitting, supportive bra, she said, has been shown to lessen breast pain in about 85 percent of women with the condition. But a large number of women, including by inference many of the London runners, are not wearing the right bra.
布朗博士说，此外，研究“还表明了治疗乳房疼痛的重要性和价值。”她说，研究证明一件合体、有支撑力的胸罩，可将女性乳房疼痛的机率减少85%左右。可是大量女性，包括参加伦敦马拉松的选手们，却都没有穿对胸罩。
The Research Group in Breast Health has published a handy online guide to bra fitting. But far more research is needed into sports bra design, Dr. Brown said, an undertaking that she hopes will progress rapidly, having herself just completed her first marathon and been hampered occasionally during training by sore breasts. 
乳房健康研究小组已经在网站发表了一份便利的胸罩试穿指南。不过布朗博士称，在运动内衣的设计方面还需加大研究力度，她希望研究能取得长足进展，因为她本人刚刚完成了首个马拉松比赛，期间也数次受到了乳房疼痛的影响。