Strenuous exercise seems to dull the urge to eat afterward better than gentler workouts, several new studies show, adding to a growing body of science suggesting that intense exercise may have unique benefits.
若干新研究显示，与较缓和的锻炼方式相比，剧烈运动似乎能够减轻进食的冲动。实际上，现在已经有越来越多的科学证据表明，剧烈运动可能具有独特的效益。
As readers of this column know, short, intense workouts, usually in the form of intervals that intersperse bursts of hard effort with a short recovery time, have become wildly popular lately, whether the sessions last for four minutes, seven minutes or slightly longer. Studies have found that such intense training, no matter how abbreviated, usually improves aerobic fitness and some markers of health, including blood pressure and insulin sensitivity, as effectively as much longer sessions of moderate exercise.
本专栏的读者一定知道，最近，短时间高强度间歇性锻炼（即中间穿插了简短休息期的多组短期剧烈运动，每组持续时间可为四分钟、七分钟乃至略长于七分钟）正日渐流行。研究发现，即使持续时间很短，此类高强度锻炼通常都可达到良好的有氧健身效果，并可改善某些健康标记物的水平，包括血压和胰岛素敏感性等。其功效与进行长时间中等强度锻炼不相上下。
What has not been clear, though, is whether interval training could likewise also aid in weight control.
但是，关于间歇性锻炼是否也有助于控制体重，目前还没有明确的答案。
So for a study published online in June in The International Journal of Obesity, researchers at the University of Western Australia in Perth and other institutions set out to compare the effects of easy versus exhausting exercise on people’s subsequent desire to eat.
在今年6月在线发表于《国际肥胖学刊》(The International Journal of Obesity)的一项研究中，来自澳大利亚珀斯市的西澳大学(University of Western Australia)及其他研究机构的研究人员比较了轻松型和剧烈型锻炼对人们运动后食欲的影响。
To do so, they recruited 17 overweight but otherwise healthy young men in their 20s or 30s and asked them to show up at the university’s exercise physiology lab on four separate days. One of these sessions was spent idly reading or otherwise resting for 30 minutes, while on another day, the men rode an exercise bike continuously for 30 minutes at a moderate pace (equivalent to 65 percent of their predetermined maximum aerobic capacity). A third session was more demanding, with the men completing 30 minutes of intervals, riding first for one minute at 100 percent of their endurance capacity, then spinning gently for 4 minutes.
在这项研究中，科学家们招募了17名除体重超重外其他各方面均健康，且年龄在20多岁或30多岁的年轻男性，并要求他们分别在四个不连续的研究日里来到该大学的运动生理学实验室参与研究。在其中一个研究日中，志愿者们以悠闲的阅读或其他方式休息了30分钟；在另一日，他们以中速蹬自行车的方式（相当于达到其预先测定的最大有氧能力的65%）连续锻炼了30分钟。在第三个研究日中，对锻炼的要求更高，他们需要完成共计30分钟的间歇性锻炼，具体方法为：先以100%耐力水平蹬车锻炼一分钟，然后慢慢骑四分钟，如此反复。
The final session was the toughest, as the men strained through 15 seconds of pedaling at 170 percent of their normal endurance capacity, then pedaled at barely 30 percent of their maximum capacity for a minute, with the entire sequence repeated over the course of 30 minutes.
最后一个研究日的锻炼最为艰苦，志愿者们要先以达他们正常耐力170%的水平蹬车15秒，然后以接近最大有氧能力30%的强度骑一分钟，上述两个程序循环进行，共计30分钟。
Before and after exercise and rest, the scientists drew blood from the men to check for levels of various substances known to influence appetite. They also provided their volunteers with a standardized liquid breakfast at the end of each 30-minute session.
在志愿者进行运动和休息前后，科学家们分别对其进行了抽血，以检查多种已知可影响食欲的物质的水平。此外，他们还在志愿者们完成30分钟的锻炼之后向其提供了统一的流质早餐。
Then, about 70 minutes later, they let the men loose at a table loaded with a sweetened but bland porridge. The researchers wanted to avoid rich aromas or other aspects of food that might influence the men’s desire to eat; they hoped to isolate the effects of pure appetite — which needs to be robust to make porridge enticing.
在其后大约70分钟后，志愿者们得以在桌边放松休息，且桌上备有甜而清淡的粥。科学家们力图确保所提供的食物不具备浓郁香味或其他可能影响志愿者食欲的特点，以便观察纯粹由食欲引发的效应——只有在他们的食欲足够强时，才会觉得这些粥可口诱人。
As it turned out, gruel was quite appealing to the men after resting or pedaling moderately; they loaded their bowls. But their appetites were noticeably blunted by each of the interval workouts, and in particular by the most strenuous 15-second intervals. After that session, the men picked at their porridge, consuming significantly less than after resting or training moderately.
人们发现，在休息或中等强度的蹬车锻炼后，这些粥显得相当有吸引力；志愿者们都将碗盛得满满。但在每次间歇性锻炼后，他们都明显表现出食欲不振，在繁重的15秒间歇性锻炼后尤其如此。在该组锻炼后，志愿者们喝粥的量要显著少于休息后或中等强度锻炼之后。
They also displayed significantly lower levels of the hormone ghrelin, which is known to stimulate appetite, and elevated levels of both blood lactate and blood sugar, which have been shown to lessen the drive to eat, after the most vigorous interval session than after the other workouts.
此外，与进行其他形式的锻炼之后相比，在最剧烈的间歇性锻炼后志愿者们的ghrelin激素（胃促生长素，又名饥饿素，已知该激素可刺激食欲）水平显著较低，而对食欲有缓和作用的血乳酸和血糖水平则显著升高。
And the appetite-suppressing effect of the highly intense intervals lingered into the next day, according to food diaries that the men completed. They consumed fewer calories during the subsequent 24 hours after the very intense 15-second intervals than after any of the other workouts.
而且，据志愿者们的进餐日志所描述，高强度间歇性锻炼对食欲的抑制性效应可持续至第二天。在15秒间歇性高强度锻炼后的24小时内，志愿者们摄取的食物热量值低于任何其他锻炼之后的同一时段。
These results parallel those of another recent study of exercise intensity and appetite, published last year in the journal PLoS One, for which obese teenage boys were asked to spend 24 hours within an enclosed metabolic chamber that constantly measured their energy intake and output. The boys made three visits, once resting throughout their stay, and on the other two occasions exercising on a stationary bicycle at either a moderate or highly intense pace until they had burned about 330 calories.
这些研究结果与另一项关于运动强度和食欲的研究异曲同工。在那项去年发表于《公共科学图书馆：综合》(PLoS One)杂志上的研究中，科学家们要求肥胖青少年男性受试者在封闭的代谢实验室中停留24小时，并持续不断地测量他们的能量摄入和消耗情况。这些少年一共参与了三次实验，第一次在整个实验期间均处于休息状态，另两次则分别在固定自行车上进行中度或高强度蹬车锻炼，直至消耗约330大卡热量。
Afterward, they were allowed to eat whatever they chose from a varied buffet, and being teenaged boys, they chose plenty, more than replacing their energy output each time. But after the intense session, they ate significantly less over all, consuming about 10 percent fewer calories than after resting or pedaling moderately.
其后，研究人员允许受试者从品种丰富的自助餐中任意选择想吃的食物。作为十几岁的男孩，他们的胃口很好，每次选择的食物量都超过了恰好弥补能量消耗所需的量。但是，在剧烈运动后，他们的总食量显著减少——以摄取的卡路里数来计算的话，大约比休息或中度蹬车锻炼后减少了10%。
The upshot of both of these studies is that intense exercise “leads to a short-term suppression of food intake,” said Aaron Sim, a postgraduate researcher at the University of Western Australia, who led the study of adults and interval exercise.
这两项研究的结果均表明，剧烈运动“可在短期内抑制进食”，前述“成年人与间歇性锻炼”研究的领导者、西澳大学的研究生亚伦·西姆(Aaron Sim)总结道。
That conclusion would seem to be fine news for anyone hoping to deploy exercise to trim a waistline. But Mr. Sim cautions that the studies available to date, including his, are very short-term, covering only one session of the various exercise options. “Whether or not” weeks or months of intense training “would have an impact on long-term weight management remains to be determined,” he said.
对于希望通过锻炼减小腰围的人们而言，这个结论似乎是个好消息。但西姆告诫说，迄今为止的研究（包括他自己的研究）涉及的时间都非常短，且每种不同的锻炼方式都只进行了一组。他说，数周或数月的高强度锻炼“能否影响长期体重管理，这一点仍有待确定”。
It’s also important to note that both of these studies involved fairly young male volunteers, all of them overweight. Whether the findings would apply equally to women, older men and people of either gender who are normal weight remains unknown.
另外还有非常重要的一点需要加以注意：这些研究中的参与者都是非常年轻的男性志愿者，而且他们均体重超重。上述研究结果是否同样适用于女性、老年男性以及体重正常的男性和女性，仍然不得而知。
Still, the results are heartening, not least because in Mr. Sim’s study, although the exertion involved in the interval sessions was much greater than in the moderate workout, the men reported that they enjoyed the grueling exercise every bit as much.
尽管如此，这些结果仍然令人振奋。最起码，在西姆的研究中，虽然间歇性锻炼要比适度锻炼辛苦得多，但志愿者们都报告说，他们十分享受这种激烈的锻炼方式。