If better health isn’t enough incentive to take a brisk walk, perhaps there is another one: it may get you a better deal.
如果促进健康这条理由不足以激励你去进行一次快走锻炼，那么也许另一个理由可以：快走能帮助你达成更好的交易。
New research from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology offers a twist on the adage “never let them see you sweat,” says Jared Curhan, associate professor of organization studies at M.I.T.’s Sloan School of Management, and one of the study’s co-authors. “If you’re sweating, and your heart rate is up, it’s seen as a sign something is going wrong, that you’re too nervous, off-balance, flustered,” he said. “Whereas we’re showing that something could be very right.”
有句谚语说，“永远不要让人看见你汗流浃背”，但麻省理工学院（Massachusetts Institute of Technology，简称MIT）的一项新研究却对此提出了反调，麻省理工学院斯隆管理学院(Sloan School of Management)的组织研究副教授、该研究的共同作者之一贾里德·科尔汉(Jared Curhan)说：“满头大汗、心跳加速，这往往是有什么事情不对劲，导致你过度紧张、措手不及、心慌意乱的征象，”他说，“而我们的研究表明，在事情一帆风顺的时候，你也会有这样的表现。”
Professor Curhan and his colleagues found that a person who negotiates while moving — say, pacing while bargaining over job terms on the cellphone — can see improved results. But there is, of course, a rub. The better outcomes seen with exertion tend to come only to people who are confident heading into the negotiation in the first place. If, instead, they are nervous, walking may actually hamper performance.
科尔汉教授和同事们发现，当人们一边运动（比如踱来踱去）一边拿手机就业务条款讨价还价时，谈判结果将有所改善。当然，这也可能会导致摩擦。运动只能帮助那些一开始就以自信的姿态进入谈判的人获得更好的结果。相反，如果谈判者很紧张，踱步实际上很可能会影响到他们的表现。
The study, published recently in the journal Psychological Science, involved two experiments. One compared the experience of subjects who negotiated to buy a car on a cellphone while walking briskly on a treadmill (their heart rates averaged 117 beats a minute) against the experience of others who walked at a more modest pace (88 beats a minute). A second experiment compared the experiences of subjects negotiating for job terms on a cellphone; some subjects took a casual walk, while others sat in a chair.
这项近期发表在《心理科学》(Psychological Science)杂志上的研究涉及两项实验。一项实验对通过手机就购买汽车展开议价的两组受试者进行了比较：第一组受试者在跑步机上快走（他们的平均心率为每分钟117次），而另一组受试者则采用更缓和的速度步行（心率为每分钟88次）。第二项实验比较了借助手机沟通工作事宜的受试者们的经历；一部分受试者悠闲地散步，其他人则安静地坐在椅子上。
As conventional wisdom would suggest, those who dreaded negotiation performed even worse when they exerted themselves. What was more surprising was that those who looked forward to negotiation displayed the opposite results: In the job-negotiation experiment, they performed better and felt better about their performances when they were walking. And in the treadmill experiment, the confident negotiators felt that they performed better when their heart rates were elevated — more so than equally confident people who walked at a modest pace.
正如传统智慧所指出的，在精疲力竭时，那些原本就对谈判心存畏惧的人只会表现得更糟。但更令人惊讶的是，对谈判心怀期待的人显示出了相反的结果：在沟通工作的实验中，他们在行走时表现更好，对个人表现的自我感觉也更加良好。在跑步机实验中，自信的谈判者感觉自己在心率较高时表现更佳——也就是说，优于同样自信的以慢速步行的受试者。
The results provide a real-world application to a decades-old body of science about the relationship between physical and mental states. It turns out that it’s very easy to confuse the two. That is because, broadly speaking, emotions consist of two factors: a physiological response and how a person experiences and labels it.
实际上，关于生理和心理状态之间关系的科学研究已经有数十年之久，而上述研究结果正为其提供了现实世界中的应用。事实证明，生理和心理状态之间的界限非常模糊。这是因为，从广义上讲，情绪包括两个因素：生理反应，一个人的感受以及如何对这种体验加以界定。
In other words, one person might call a racing heart and sweaty palms anxiety and another might call it excitement. Recent research from Alison Wood Brooks, a scholar now at the Harvard Business School, shows that people perform better in a range of pursuits — singing, public speaking, math — if they can take note of the physiological responses and relabel their feelings as excitement as opposed to anxiety.
换句话说，同样是心如擂鼓、汗湿掌心，一个人或许觉得这是焦虑的表现，另一个人却可能称其为兴奋。目前就职于哈佛商学院(Harvard Business School)的学者艾莉森·伍德·布鲁克斯(Alison Wood Brooks)最近进行的研究表明，在追求各种目标——如歌唱、演讲、数学时，如果人们能对自己的生理反应多加留意，并将这些感觉定位为兴奋而不是焦虑，那么他们的成绩往往会更加优秀。
Ms. Brooks said the research would apply to negotiation. Her advice is for people to “reappraise” anxiety as excitement. This can be accomplished, she said, even by simply saying “I’m excited.” Earlier research shows that anxiety can be so debilitating that it causes people to “make low first offers, exit early and earn less profit.”
布鲁克斯女士表示，这项研究可以应用于谈判。她建议人们将焦虑的表现“重新评估”为兴奋。要做到这一点很简单，她说，甚至只消说一句“我很兴奋”就可以了。此前的研究表明，焦虑容易让人变得弱势，导致他们“开价偏低，过早退出，且赚取的利润也有所减少”。
She said the new M.I.T. research showed a way to counter these forces.
她认为，麻省理工学院的新研究指明了一种可对抗这种不良力量的方式。
“Get on the treadmill, get your heart racing and once it’s racing, appraise the feeling as excitement — tell yourself ‘I am excited, not anxious,’ ” she said. “And then go forth and prosper.”
“踩上跑步机，让你的心跳加速。一旦心率狂飙，就把这种感觉当作兴奋——告诉自己，我心跳是因为‘我很兴奋，而不是因为焦虑，’”她说。“然后，请一往无前大展拳脚吧。”
One thing that is not clear from the M.I.T. study is just how much physical exertion makes sense in negotiation. For now, said Ashley Brown, the lead author of the study who is now a psychology researcher at Stanford, “I wouldn’t suggest doing a marathon.”
有一个问题在麻省理工学院研究中尚未得到明确的解答：在谈判时，体力活动以多少为宜。就目前而言，该研究的主要作者、现任斯坦福大学(Stanford)心理学研究员的阿什利·布朗(Ashley Brown)表示：“我可不建议你去跑马拉松。”