Anyone whose resolve to exercise in 2013 is a bit shaky might want to consider an emerging scientific view of human evolution. It suggests that we are clever today in part because a million years ago, we could outrun and outwalk most other mammals over long distances. Our brains were shaped and sharpened by movement, the idea goes, and we continue to require regular physical activity in order for our brains to function optimally.
任何一位决心2013年锻炼身体又有点儿打退堂鼓的人，不妨听听以下这个关于人类进化的新观点：我们现在之所以这么聪明，部分是由于几百万年前，我们比大多数哺乳动物在远足或长跑方面更胜一筹。人类的大脑因运动而成型、锐化——于是乎，我们仍需经常锻炼来使大脑以最佳状态运转。
The role of physical endurance in shaping humankind has intrigued anthropologists and gripped the popular imagination for some time. In 2004, the evolutionary biologists Daniel E. Lieberman of Harvard and Dennis M. Bramble of the University of Utah published a seminal article in the journal Nature titled "Endurance Running and the Evolution of Homo," in which they posited that our bipedal ancestors survived by becoming endurance athletes, able to bring down swifter prey through sheer doggedness, jogging and plodding along behind them until the animals dropped.
身体耐力对人类进化的作用一直深深吸引着人类学家，并一度引发过流行的理论。2004年，进化生物学家丹尼尔·E·利伯曼（Daniel E. Lieberman，哈佛大学[Havard University]）和丹尼斯·M·布兰布莱（Dennis M. Bramble，犹他大学[University of Utah]）在《自然》(Nature)杂志上发表过一篇影响深远的文章：《耐久性长跑与人类的进化》(Endurance Running and the Evolution of Homo)。他们认为，我们的二足动物祖先存活下来的原因是持久奔跑：通过绝对的耐力逮住速度更快的猎物，或跑或走始终跟在猎物后面直至它们筋疲力尽。
Endurance produced meals, which provided energy for mating, which meant that adept early joggers passed along their genes. In this way, natural selection drove early humans to become even more athletic, Dr. Lieberman and other scientists have written, their bodies developing longer legs, shorter toes, less hair and complicated inner-ear mechanisms to maintain balance and stability during upright ambulation. Movement shaped the human body.
耐力带来食物，提供交配所需的能量，因而最初的长跑能手得以延续基因。如此看来，自然选择让早期的人类变得愈发体格强健，利伯曼博士及其他科学家写道：他们的身体进化出长腿、短趾、少毛和复杂的内耳系统以保证直立行走时的平衡与稳定——运动塑造了人类的形体。
But simultaneously, in a development that until recently many scientists viewed as unrelated, humans were becoming smarter. Their brains were increasing rapidly in size.
而与此同时人类也出现了另一项进化特征：变得更聪明、大脑体积迅速增长，很多科学家一直以来都认为这与运动没什么关系。
Today, humans have a brain that is about three times the size that would be expected, anthropologists say, given our species' body size in comparison with that of other mammals.
人类学家称，基于我们现在的个头、再比较其他哺乳动物，我们大脑的体积是应有的3倍大。
To explain those outsized brains, evolutionary scientists have pointed to such occurrences as meat eating and, perhaps most determinatively, our early ancestors' need for social interaction. Early humans had to plan and execute hunts as a group, which required complicated thinking patterns and, it's been thought, rewarded the social and brainy with evolutionary success. According to that hypothesis, the evolution of the brain was driven by the need to think.
进化学家曾把这种“特大号大脑”的现象归因为食肉以及我们祖先的社交需求——这或许是最具决定性的原因。早期人类的打猎行动需要以群体为单位谋划实行，这便要求有精密的思维模式。于是科学家得出推论：善于交流的和聪明的人获得了进化上的成功。据此推论，大脑进化是由于人需要思考。
But now some scientists are suggesting that physical activity also played a critical role in making our brains larger.
不过现在，一些科学家认为体力活动也在人类大脑体积变大中发挥了重要作用。
To reach that conclusion, anthropologists began by looking at existing data about brain size and endurance capacity in a variety of mammals, including dogs, guinea pigs, foxes, mice, wolves, rats, civet cats, antelope, mongooses, goats, sheep and elands. They found a notable pattern. Species like dogs and rats that had a high innate endurance capacity, which presumably had evolved over millenniums, also had large brain volumes relative to their body size.
为证明此论点，人类学家开始在现有数据中探寻哺乳动物大脑体积与耐力的关系。研究包括狗、豚鼠、狐狸、小鼠、狼、大鼠、灵猫、羚羊、猫鼬、山羊、绵羊和非洲大羚羊。学者们发现了一个明显的模式：像狗和大鼠这样天生具有高耐力、据推测已进化上千年的物种，大脑的体积相对身体的大小而言更大。
The researchers also looked at recent experiments in which mice and rats were systematically bred to be marathon runners. Lab animals that willingly put in the most miles on running wheels were interbred, resulting in the creation of a line of lab animals that excelled at running.
研究者还查看了近期的一些实验，其中小鼠和大鼠被系统地培育成马拉松运动员。那些自觉主动地在转轮上跑得更久的实验室动物被挑选出来、交配，最后得到一种“长跑健鼠”。
Interestingly, after multiple generations, these animals began to develop innately high levels of substances that promote tissue growth and health, including a protein called brain-derived neurotrophic factor, or BDNF. These substances are important for endurance performance. They also are known to drive brain growth.
有趣的是，几代下来，这些动物体内促进组织生长与健康的物质开始原发性地呈现高浓度，包括一种称作脑源性神经营养因子(brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF)的蛋白。这些物质对于身体的耐力表现十分重要，也促进大脑生长。
What all of this means, says David A. Raichlen, an anthropologist at the University of Arizona and an author of a new article about the evolution of human brains appearing in the January issue of Proceedings of the Royal Society B, is that physical activity may have helped to make early humans smarter.
2012年1月在《英国皇家学报B》(Proceedings of the Royal Society B)上发表了关于人脑进化一文的亚利桑那大学(University of Arizona)人类学家戴维·A·里奇伦(David A. Raichlen)表示：以上数据说明，体力活动有可能曾帮助早期人类变得更聪明。
"We think that what happened" in our early hunter-gatherer ancestors, he says, is that the more athletic and active survived and, as with the lab mice, passed along physiological characteristics that improved their endurance, including elevated levels of BDNF. Eventually, these early athletes had enough BDNF coursing through their bodies that some could migrate from the muscles to the brain, where it nudged the growth of brain tissue.
 “我们认为，在早期的采集-狩猎(hunter-gatherer)祖先中，那些更强壮、更积极的人得以存活——就像实验室的长跑健鼠一样，把自己的生理特征遗传下来，耐力不断增加，也包括BDNF水平的提升。终于，早期运动健将的体内聚集了足够的BDNF，以至于有一些可从肌肉转移至大脑，从而推动了脑组织的生长。”他说。
Those particular early humans then applied their growing ability to think and reason toward better tracking prey, becoming the best-fed and most successful from an evolutionary standpoint. Being in motion made them smarter, and being smarter now allowed them to move more efficiently.
这些早期的人类继而开始运用他们逐渐壮大的能力，去思考和推理更好的捕猎方法；从进化角度来看，他们成为了营养最佳、最成功的物种。因运动而智慧，又因智慧而运动得更有效率。
And out of all of this came, eventually, an ability to understand higher math and invent iPads. But that was some time later.
最终，良性循环导致人们能够理解高深的数学，能够发明出iPad。不过这都是很久很久以后的事情了。
The broad point of this new notion is that if physical activity helped to mold the structure of our brains, then it most likely remains essential to brain health today, says John D. Polk, an associate professor of anthropology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, and co-author, with Dr. Raichlen, of the new article.
里奇伦博士的文章合作者、伊利诺伊大学香槟分校(University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign)人类学副教授约翰·D·波尔克(John D. Polk)说，从广义上来讲，如果体力活动曾经帮助过我们的大脑发展成型，那么它现在仍可能对大脑的健康具有重要意义 。
And there is scientific support for that idea. Recent studies have shown, he says, that "regular exercise, even walking," leads to more robust mental abilities, "beginning in childhood and continuing into old age."
此观点是有科学支持的。他说：最近一些研究显示“定期锻炼，就算只是走走路”也会让人心智更强健，“从幼年到老年都如此”。
Of course, the hypothesis that jogging after prey helped to drive human brain evolution is just a hypothesis, Dr. Raichlen says, and almost unprovable.
里奇伦同时说，认为追着猎物长跑促使大脑进化的假说当然只是个假想，而且几乎无法证明。
But it is compelling, says Harvard's Dr. Lieberman, who has worked with the authors of the new article. "I fundamentally agree that there is a deep evolutionary basis for the relationship between a healthy body and a healthy mind," he says, a relationship that makes the term "jogging your memory" more literal than most of us might have expected and provides a powerful incentive to be active in 2013.
但这假说太引人注目了，曾与上述新论文作者合作过的哈佛大学利伯曼博士称：“我毫不怀疑健壮身体与聪慧大脑间的联系有着深厚的进化基础。此联系把‘追逐你的记忆’(jogging your memory)一词变得比以往理解的意思更字面化了；这足以成为我们在2013年积极锻炼起来的强大动力。”