For years, health advocates have been telling us to move more. But just how much more?
多年来，健康倡导者们一直告诉我们要多多做运动。但到底“多”了多少？
A multitude of activity tracking devices now promise to answer that question. Generally, these digital monitors, which can be worn around the wrist, on collars and belts, even as jewelry, record how and how much you move throughout the day. Some aim to do a great deal more. Makers of the devices have begun intensive campaigns aimed at convincing the large population of “worried well” consumers to get wired and start recording their every move.
现在，众多运动跟踪设备都承诺可以回答这个问题。一般来说，这些或可以缠在手腕上，或可以穿戴在衣领、腰带，甚至当成首饰佩戴的数字监视器将记录下你一整天的运动情况和运动量。还有些追踪器的功能比这更加丰富。这些设备的制造商瞄准为数众多的“疑病症”消费者展开了密集的宣传攻势，试图说服他们赶快戴上运动跟踪器，开始记录自己的一举一动。
How well do these work? Curious about the benefits and limits, I’ve been testing as many different models as possible — wearing them day and night for six months, 11 models in all, sometimes four at once. I’ve learned a great deal about these gadgets. And about myself.
这些跟踪器究竟好不好用呢？出于对其效益和局限性的好奇，我尽可能多地测试了不同型号的跟踪器（共计11个）——它们，有时甚至同时穿戴四个。关于这些小玩意儿，还有我自己，我已经颇为了解。
I’d thought I was a fairly active person: I bike to work most days and hit the gym or get other physical activity two or three times a week. The trackers, on the other hand, showed that aside from those spates of exercise, for the vast majority of each day I was completely sedentary.
之前我一直以为自己是相当好动的人：大部分工作日我都骑自行车上班，每周还去两三次健身房或进行其他的体育活动。可跟踪器却表示了不同意见：它们的记录显示，除了那几次大运动量活动之外，我每天的绝大多数时间基本上都坐着一动不动。
But that may not be the whole story.
不过，这可能也不是事情的全貌。
Activity trackers typically combine a wearable device with a website or smartphone app to view data collected about your movements. The goal is to measure not only your steps from the parking lot to your desk, but also your sedentary down time at work or in front of a television, bursts of intense exercise and even your sleep habits — all to create a complete picture of your most and least healthful behaviors. Some models also offer tips and set goals based on your data.
一般而言，运动跟踪器是一种与网站或智能手机应用程序相结合的可穿戴式设备，可以收集并查看你的运动数据。它的设计目的不仅是测量你从停车场到办公桌走了多少步，还要记录你在工作时或在电视机前的久坐时间，从事过的剧烈运动，甚至你的睡眠习惯，从而构建出一幅关于你最健康和最不健康行为的完整图景。有些型号还可以根据你的数据提供提示并设定锻炼目标。
The most popular models are made by Fitbit, Nike and Jawbone; the gadgets typically cost $60 to $200. Most are made of rubber and plastic and come in a choice of colors, with the notable exception of the Shine, made of metal by Misfit Wearables.
Fitbit、耐克(Nike)和卓棒(Jawbone)出品的跟踪器最受欢迎；售价通常在60至200美元。这些小东西大多由橡胶和塑料制成，并提供多种颜色以备选择。不过Misfit Wearables出品的Shine特立独行，它是金属的。
In 2013, activity trackers generated an estimated $290 million in American retail sales, according to Ben Arnold, an analyst at New York’s NPD Group, who says the market could double this year. The sharp rise of trackers stems from advances in chip technology. The devices all share a common sensor, an accelerometer that can track movement in three dimensions (up and down, side to side, and forward and back). Accelerometers can now be made small enough and at a low enough cost that they can be embedded in almost anything.
据纽约NPD集团（NPD Group，美国著名消费市场调查公司）的分析师本·阿诺德(Ben Arnold)估计，2013年，运动追踪器在美国的零售销售额达2.9亿美元，而今年该市场很可能还会再增加一倍。跟踪器产业的迅速崛起得益于芯片技术的进步。所有这些设备都具备传感器和加速度计，用于跟踪三个维度（上下、左右、前后）上的运动。现在，人们已经能够以足够低的成本制造出足够小的加速度计，使其几乎可以集成入任何设备。
While all activity trackers have an accelerometer, some include additional sensors to pick up other signs of activity. BodyMedia makes an armband that measures perspiration and muscle heat for a more accurate assessment of activity level and calories burned. Basis Science sells the B1 Band watch, which measures heart rate, perspiration and skin temperature. The Pulse, from Withings of France, can measure resting heart rate.
除了所有运动跟踪器都具有的加速度计之外，有些跟踪器还装有额外的传感器，用以接收其他运动信号。BodyMedia制造的一款臂带可以测定排汗情况和肌肉产热，从而更准确地评估运动水平和燃烧的热量。Basis Science销售的B1 Band智能运动手表可测量心率、排汗和皮肤温度。法国Withings的Pulse则可以测量静息心率。
Many trackers estimate the length and fitfulness of sleep by sensing how much you move throughout the night. And Polar and Garmin both make trackers that can pair with chest straps to record heart rate during a workout.
许多跟踪器还能监测人在整个夜晚的活动情况，并据此估计其睡眠长度和连续性等。博能(Polar)和佳明(Garmin)出品的跟踪器均可与胸带配套使用，以记录锻炼过程中的心率。
But even the best tracker can’t recognize all of your movements. As I sit writing this, my wrists are motionless, but my leg is tapping to music. My activity trackers don’t seem to notice — fidgeting won’t be reflected in the calorie counts they show me. That’s too bad, because there’s an interesting body of research suggesting that a propensity to fidget is one reason lean people stay lean.
然而，即便是最好的跟踪器也无法识别出人的所有动作。例如，当我坐着写这些东西的时候，我的手腕很安生，但我的腿正跟着音乐打拍子。我的运动跟踪器完全没有注意到这一点——在它们的卡路里计数中，并没有把我的这些小动作计算在内。这可真糟糕，因为有一项有趣的研究表明，瘦人保持身材的原因之一是他们都喜欢动来晃去的。
More surprisingly, perhaps, only the trackers made by Basis and BodyMedia gave me credit for being active when riding my bike. Most of the rest just sat on my wrist, recording no activity — and true enough, my wrist wasn’t moving much as I pedaled through the city traffic. All of them were more accurate when I was playing tennis.
或许更应该让我感到惊讶的是，只有Basis和BodyMedia出品的跟踪器认可我骑自行车时也是在做运动。其余大部分的跟踪器都只是待在我的手腕上，因此报告说我完全没动过——说真的，当我努力踩着脚踏板在城市中穿梭时，我的手腕的确是不怎么动。不过到了打网球的时候，所有的跟踪器都变得准确起来了。
Activity trackers usually don’t measure exertion, only motion. Company officials say that intense exercise is just a small part of the average consumer’s day, and that it’s more useful to capture the bigger fitness picture.
运动跟踪器通常只测量动作幅度，不测量运动强度。公司官员称，剧烈运动只是普通消费者日常活动中的一小部分，把握全局性的健身状态对他们更有帮助。
For “high-resistance, low-movement exercises, none of these work really well, including us,” said Sonny Vu, chief executive of Misfit Wearables. But “it’s the other 23 and a half hours that’s the most interesting.”
对于“高阻力，低幅度的运动，所有的跟踪器都不怎么灵光，我们的产品也不例外，”Misfit Wearables的首席执行官桑尼·吴(Sonny Vu)承认。但“一天中的其他23个半小时才是我们更感兴趣的。”
Despite the occasional gaps, I found tracking to be useful if I focused less on the precise numbers and more on day-to-day variations in activity. Comparing the 16,000 steps I take on some weekend days to the 6,000 or 7,000 on a typical workday made me work harder to move more on weekdays.
尽管运动跟踪器的数值跟真实水平有一些差距，但我发现，如果我不那么关注确切的数字，转而将注意力更多地集中于一天与另一天之间的差异时，跟踪器还是很有用的。譬如，拿我在通常工作日的6000或7000步的步行量跟某些周末的1.6万步一比，我就知道需要加大平日里的运动量了。
Can trackers really change behavior in people? Last year, Dr. Rajani Larocca, a primary care physician at Massachusetts General Hospital, conducted a six-week lifestyle program for 10 patients with diabetes ages 50 to 70 that included weekly sessions to encourage exercise and healthful eating; each participant also was outfitted with a Fitbit Zip tracker.
跟踪器真的可以改变人们的行为么？去年，美国麻省总医院(Massachusetts General Hospital)的初级保健医生拉亚尼·拉罗卡(Rajani Larocca)博士在10名年龄为50至70岁的糖尿病患者中推行了一项为期六周的生活方式改善计划，其中包括每周召开集会，鼓励参与者积极运动和健康饮食等；并为每名参与者配备了一个Fitbit Zip跟踪器。
“Every single person increased their activity,” Dr. Larocca said. “People felt more knowledgeable.” Eight months later, about half the patients from the group still wear a tracker.
“每个人的运动量都有所增加，”拉罗卡博士说。“人们都觉得对运动更有发言权了。”八个月后，该组中约有一半的患者仍然穿戴着跟踪器。
Researchers at the Center for Connected Health in Boston have been giving activity trackers to subjects for six to nine months, then studying changes in their behavior. Dr. Kamal Jethwani, head of research at the center, said he saw three distinct groups of people among study participants.
在美国互联健康中心（Center for Connected Health，位于波士顿）的研究中，科学家们让受试者在六至九个月期间坚持穿戴跟踪器，并研究了他们行为中的变化。该中心研究主管卡迈勒·杰特瓦尼( Kamal Jethwani)博士称，他发现研究参与者可以分为截然不同的三个类群。
About 10 percent are “quantified selfers” with an affinity for this kind of feedback; just by looking at the numbers, they are motivated to be more active. An additional 20 percent to 30 percent need some encouragement in addition to tracker data to effectively change their behavior.
约10%的参与者是“自我量化者”，他们对此类反馈非常热衷；仅仅是看一看跟踪器上的数字就足以激励他们更加热爱运动。对于另外的20%到30%，就需要除跟踪器数据之外的其他激励才能有效地改变自己的行为。
But most of the subjects observed by Dr. Jethwani don’t understand the data and need help making sense of it. For them, he said, social motivation from a friend or joining a team or workplace challenge may be more effective.
但杰特瓦尼博士发现，大多数受试者都不太理解那些数据，需要外界帮助，才能让他们对数据好好利用。杰特瓦尼博士指出，对于这些人来说，从朋友、参加团队或工作场所的挑战中产生的社会动机可能效果更好。
I figure I’m in the second group, the ones who need a little push. One of my favorite features is the Jawbone UP’s inactivity alert. I set mine to vibrate on my wrist if I haven’t moved in the past hour. And Jawbone’s smartphone app offers personalized tips that are actually interesting. For instance: “When you go to bed 30 minutes later than average, you tend to take 971 fewer steps the next day.” And after several late nights, I was told: “Go to bed before 12:44 a.m.” Well, O.K.
我觉得我可能属于第二组，就是需要别人在背后轻轻加把力的人。跟踪器里面我最喜欢的功能之一是Jawbone UP的“运动不足警报”(inactivity alert)。按照我的设定，如果我在过去一小时里都没动窝，它就会在我的手腕上震动。Jawbone的智能手机应用程序也提供了个性化的提示，而且十分有趣。例如：“如果你比平时晚30分钟睡觉，第二天你往往就会少走971步。”在接连几个晚上熬夜后，它告诉我：“要在上午12时44分前上床睡觉哦。”好吧，遵命。
Other trackers, like Fitbit’s, have tried to increase motivation by focusing on short-term goals — making it to 10,000 steps each day, for example. The Basis tracker awards points for keeping to “streaks” of healthy activity, like the number of days you’re active for more than 30 minutes.
其他的跟踪器，如Fitbit的产品等则试图通过着眼于短期目标来增强激励效果，比如，争取每天走1万步。Basis出品的跟踪器采用的是奖励得分的方法：当你在一段时间里始终保持一定水平的健康运动，譬如运动时间超过30分钟的日子达到一定的天数，你将获得适当的奖励得分。