Research has confirmed that people’s physiological responses to exercise vary wildly. Now a new genetic test promises to tell you whether you are likely to benefit aerobically from exercise. The science behind the test is promising, but is this information any of us really needs to know?
研究已经证实，人们因为运动而产生的生理反应有很大差异。现在有一项新的基因测试可以告诉你，你的心肺功能是否能从运动中受益。这种测试拥有着大有前途的科学依据，但我们真的需要知道这类信息吗？ 
The new test, which is being sold by a British company called XRGenomics, is available to anyone through the company’s Web site and involves rubbing inside your cheek with a supplied swab and returning the tissue sample to the company. Results are then available within a few weeks. It is based on a body of research led by James Timmons, a professor of systems biology at Loughborough University in England, and colleagues at the Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Louisiana and other institutions.
这一新型测试目前由英国XR基因组学(XRGenomics)公司销售，任何人都可以通过公司的网站购买，只需要用所提供的棉签刮擦脸颊内侧，然后将组织样本寄回公司，几周后可得到结果。这项测试方法是基于詹姆斯·蒂蒙斯(James Timmons)及其同事的研究，他是英国拉夫堡大学(Loughborough University)的系统生物学教授，在路易斯安娜的潘宁顿生物医学研究中心(Pennington Biomedical Research Center)和其他机构都有团队。
That original research, published in a landmark 2010 study, looked into the genetics of why some people respond to endurance exercise so robustly, while others do not. Some lucky men and women take up jogging, for example, and quickly become much more aerobically fit. Others complete the same program and develop little if any additional endurance, as measured by increases in their VO12 max, or their body’s ability to consume and distribute oxygen to laboring muscles.
这项研究在初期探讨的是为什么有人对耐力运动的反应如此明显，而有些人则不是，该结果在2010年一项标志性的论文中发表。某些幸运的男女一旦开始如慢跑等运动，心肺功能就能出现立竿见影的提高。而其他人进行同样的锻炼计划却收效甚微甚至毫无起色。测量指标包括最大摄氧量(VO2 max)，即身体所用肌肉消耗和分配氧气的能力。
For the 2010 study, Dr. Timmons and his colleagues genotyped muscle tissue from several groups of volunteers who had completed 6 to 20 weeks of endurance training. They found that about 30 variations in how genes were expressed had a significant effect on how fit people became. The new test looks for those genetic markers in people’s DNA.
在2010年的研究中，蒂蒙斯博士和他的同事为参试者的肌肉组织进行了基因型测试，这几组参试者完成了6到20周耐力训练。他们发现，基因大概有30种不同的分型，对健美身材的达成有显著影响。而现在新的研究则是在人们的DNA中寻找这些基因标记物。
“The idea is to help people to understand why” they might be progressing more slowly in an exercise program than their training partners are, says Dr. Timmons, one of the founders of XRGenomics.
“我们想要帮人们找出原因，”蒂蒙斯博士说，某些人可能在同样的训练计划中比同伴的进展慢得多。他也是XR基因组学公司的创始人之一。
After he appeared on a BBC science program last year, in the course of which the host was revealed to be a “low” responder, according to his gene profile, Dr. Timmons was inundated with e-mails and calls requesting the test, he says. At that point, he and several colleagues filed a patent (still pending) for the gene markers and brought the test to market.
去年，他参与拍摄了BBC电视台的一档科学节目，期间主持人也接受了测试，结果根据他的基因表达谱，他被鉴定为运动“低”反应者。蒂蒙斯博士说，自从节目播出后，他快要被要求进行测试的人发来的邮件和打来的电话淹没了。他和几名同事当时为基因标记物申请了专利（目前还未获得通过），将测试推向了市场。
It joins other, less-sophisticated exercise-related gene test kits already available over the counter. These tests, which are not monitored by the Food and Drug Administration, typically rely on a single gene marker and claim to be able to predict whether you — or your child — will have success as a distance runner, say, or as a power-based athlete, like a sprinter.
现在消费者已经可以购买到一些不那么复杂的运动相关的基因测试盒。这些测试未经食品药品管理局(Food and Drug Administration)监控，通常仅依赖单个基因标记物，声称它们可以预测你或你的孩子是能成为优秀的长跑者，还是像短跑健将这样的力量型运动员。
Their actual predictive value, based on the best currently available genetic science, “is approximately zero,” says Claude Bouchard, a professor of genetics at Pennington, who was the senior author of the 2010 study with Dr. Timmons, but has no involvement with XRGenomics. (He is a paid consultant for another company, Pathway Genomics, that offers gene tests only through physicians.)
不过，照潘宁顿生物医学研究中心的基因学教授克劳德·布沙德(Claude Bouchard)的说法，从目前已有的基因科技来看，这类测试盒真正的预测价值“大约为零”。布沙德也是2010年蒂蒙斯研究的资深作者，但与XR基因组学公司没有关联。（他是另一家公司路径基因[Pathway Genomics]的有酬顾问，仅通过医生提供基因测试。）
The new test is almost certainly more reliable, with “a much stronger scientific basis than any of the previous exercise-related DNA test kits,” says Tuomo Rankinen, a professor of genetics at Pennington, who, like Dr. Bouchard, was an author of the original gene study but has no involvement with XRGenomics. But, he adds, it relies on VO12 max, just one measure of how someone responds to exercise, so it has severe limits.
新测试则可靠得多，因为“它建立在更强有力的科学基础上，这一点超过了此前所有运动相关的DNA测试工具”，托莫·莱肯宁(Tuomo Rankinen)说，他是潘宁顿生物医学研究中心的基因学教授，和布沙德一样也是此前基因研究的作者之一而且没有参与XR基因组学公司。但是，他补充说，新测试建立在最大摄氧量的基础上，而这只是人们对运动的反应之一，所以有很大的局限。
The new test will not tell you, for example, how exercise might affect your blood pressure over the long haul, Dr. Rankinen says, or whether your insulin sensitivity might change, or whether you’ll lose weight. The genetic markers related to these health responses to exercise are quite different from those related to VO12 max, he says.
莱肯宁博士说，举例来说，新测试并不会告诉你运动会如何在较长时间里影响你的血压，或者你的胰岛素敏感度是否会改变，又或者你的体重是否会降低。他说，运动引起这些健康反应的基因标记物，与最大摄氧量相关的标记物是不同的。
In other words, the scientific understanding of how our DNA affects our overall bodily response to exercise is in its infancy.
也就是说，关于DNA如何影响我们身体整体对运动的反应，科学解释还处于它的婴儿期。
Which does not mean that anyone curious — and deep-pocketed — enough to take the test should refrain from doing so. At present the basic test kit costs about $318 (199 British pounds) for genotyping and a brief accompanying report. For about $478, you receive a more extensive explanation of the findings, along with customized exercise recommendations from the company’s scientific advisory board. The report might suggest, Dr. Timmons says, that if you are a “low” responder to endurance exercise, you should concentrate on resistance training or otherwise refocus your training.
但这并不是说，即使你好奇心发作——且有闲钱——也不该进行这项测试。目前，花318美元（合199英镑）购买基础测试盒，即可进行基因型测试并拿到一份简短报告。花上约478美元，你可以得到更深入的解释，附有公司科学顾问委员会定制的运动建议。蒂蒙斯博士解释说，如果你对耐力训练的反应较“低”，这份报告可能会建议你更关注力量训练，或重新调整训练计划。
“What we hope,” he says, is that the test and report “will encourage people to keep exercising” who might otherwise have quit when running or swimming didn’t make them more fit.
他说，“我们希望的是，（测试和报告）能够鼓励人们坚持运动，”不然的话，人们一旦觉得跑步或游泳没让他们身材更好，就容易放弃。
On the other hand, some people might look on the news that they are a “low” responder to endurance training as a license to quit working out altogether, he acknowledges.
另一方面，他也承认，某些人希望得到他们是耐力训练“低”反应者的消息，这样就可以名正言顺地放弃运动。
But Dr. Bouchard says that that would be the worst message to take from any gene testing. “This is a good test, as far as it goes,” he says. But genes will never be destiny.
但是布沙德博士说，这对任何基因测试来说都是最坏的消息。“目前看来，测试本身是好的。”他说。但基因从来不是命运。
In the original 2010 gene study, the authors concluded that the gene profile they’d uncovered accounted for at least 23 percent of the variation in how people responded to endurance training, which, in genetic terms, is a hefty contribution. That leaves perhaps 77 percent of how you respond to exercise consciously up to you.
在2010年的基因研究中，作者的结论是，他们发现基因表达谱在人体对耐力训练反应中，起到的作用至少占到了23%，这个比重从基因学来看非常显著。那么，对运动能产生多大的反应，可能还剩下77%的空间由你作主。