Exercise not only appears to keep skin younger, it may also even reverse skin aging in people who start exercising late in life, according to surprising new research.
运动不仅能让皮肤显得更年轻，根据一项令人吃惊的新研究，即使开始锻炼的年纪较晚，运动也能逆转人们的皮肤老化。
As many of us know from woeful experience, our skin changes as the years advance, resulting in wrinkles, crow’s feet and sagging skin. This occurs because of changes within our layers of skin. After about age 40, most of us begin to experience a thickening of our stratum corneum, the final, protective, outer layer of the epidermis, itself the top layer of your skin. The stratum corneum is the portion of the skin that you see and feel. Composed mostly of dead skin cells and some collagen, it gets drier, flakier and denser with age.
我们中的很多人已经从悲惨的自身经历中发现，随着时光流逝，我们的肌肤也在变化，出现了皱纹、鱼尾纹和松驰现象。这是由皮肤内部层次的变化而导致的。年过四十后，大部分人皮肤的角质层，也就是皮肤最表浅，起到决定性、保护性、位于最外层的皮肤会开始变厚。角质层是你可以看到并触及的这部分皮肤。构成它的大部分是死去的皮肤细胞及部分胶原蛋白，随着年龄增长，角质层将变得更干燥、易脱落，质地也更紧密。
At the same time, the layer of skin beneath the epidermis, the dermis, begins to thin. It loses cells and elasticity, giving the skin a more translucent and often saggier appearance.
与此同时，在角质层以下的这一层皮肤，即真皮层，则开始变薄。它渐渐丢失了细胞和弹性，使得皮肤变得更透明，从外表上看显得更加松松垮垮。
These changes are independent of any skin damage from the sun. They are solely the result of the passage of time.
这些变化都跟因日晒造成的皮肤损伤无关，纯粹是衰老带来的结果。
But recently, researchers at McMaster University in Ontario began to wonder if such alterations were inevitable. Earlier studies at McMaster involving mice that were bred to age prematurely had shown that a steady regimen of exercise could stave off or even undo the signs of early aging in these animals. When members of this breed of mice remained sedentary, they rapidly grew wizened, frail, ill, demented, and graying or bald. But if they were given access to running wheels, they maintained healthy brains, hearts, muscles, reproductive organs, and fur far longer than their sedentary labmates. Their fur never even turned gray.
不过近期，加拿大安大略省麦克马斯特大学(McMaster University)的研究人员则开始设想，这些变化是否真的不可避免。该大学的早期研究发现，通过育种出现早衰现象的小鼠如果能持续运动，其早期衰老的迹象可以减缓甚至消失。而在这种小鼠保持静止不动时，它们迅速变得干瘦、虚脱、病弱、精神错乱，毛发发白或脱落。可是，相比静止不动的同伴，有机会在滚轮上运动的小鼠其大脑、心脏、肌肉、生殖器官则会保持健康，毛发也更长。它们的毛发甚至一直都没有变白。
Of course, we humans long ago swapped our fur for naked skin. But if exercise could keep animals’ outer layer from changing with age, it might, the researchers speculated, do the same for our skin.
当然了，在很久以前，我们人类的一身毛发已经由裸露的皮肤所取代。但是，研究者推测，如果锻炼能让动物的外表不会因时间而老化，那么它也可能对我们的皮肤产生一样的效果。
To test that possibility, the scientists first gathered 29 local male and female volunteers ages 20 to 84. About half of the participants were active, performing at least three hours of moderate or vigorous physical activity every week, while the others were resolutely sedentary, exercising for less than an hour per week. Then the researchers asked each volunteer to uncover a buttock.
为了证实这种可能性，研究者首先征集了29位志愿者，他们住在本地，年龄在20-84岁之间，有男有女。大约半数参与者平时喜欢运动，每周至少进行三小时中度或剧烈运动，另外半数十分好静，每周运动时间不足一小时。接着，研究人员请每位志愿者露出半边臀部。
“We wanted to examine skin that had not been frequently exposed to the sun,” said Dr. Mark Tarnopolsky, a professor of pediatrics and exercise science at McMaster who oversaw the study, which was presented this month at the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine annual meeting in New Orleans.
“我们想检查没有频繁日晒的皮肤，”马克·塔诺波斯基(Mark Tarnopolsky)博士介绍说。他是麦克马斯特大学儿科和运动医学教授，也是该研究的负责人。研究报告已于本月在新奥尔良举行的美国医学会(American Medical Society)运动医学年会上提交。
The scientists biopsied skin samples from each volunteer and examined them microscopically. When compared strictly by age, the skin samples overall aligned with what would be expected. Older volunteers generally had thicker outer layers of skin and significantly thinner inner layers.
科研人员对来自每位志愿者的皮肤样本进行了活检，并在显微镜下观察。当与年龄严格对照时，总体来说皮肤样本都符合预期。较年长的志愿者通常皮肤表层较厚，内层较薄。
But those results shifted noticeably when the researchers further subdivided their samples by exercise habits. They found that after age 40, the men and women who exercised frequently had markedly thinner, healthier stratum corneums and thicker dermis layers in their skin. Their skin was much closer in composition to that of the 20- and 30-year-olds than to that of others of their age, even if they were past age 65.
但当研究者再进一步，将志愿者的样本按锻炼习惯细分时，结果发出了显著改变。他们发现在年过40岁后，频繁锻炼的男性和女性，皮肤的表皮层明显较薄，也较为健康，而真皮层组织较厚。他们的皮肤从构成上看，更接近20或30岁的年龄组，跟同年龄组差异较大，即使年过65岁也依然如此。
But as the researchers realized, other factors, including diet, genes and lifestyles, might have influenced the differences in skin condition between the exercising and sedentary groups. It was impossible to know whether exercise by itself had affected people’s skin or been incidental to lucky genetics and healthy lives.
但研究人员意识到，包括饮食、遗传和生活方式在内的其他因素，也可能对健身组和静止组的皮肤差异造成影响。几乎不可能确认，影响了人们皮肤状态的是锻炼本身，还是幸运的遗传或健康的生活。
So the researchers next set a group of sedentary volunteers to exercising, after first obtaining skin samples from their buttocks. The volunteers were aged at 65 or older and, at the study’s start, had normal skin for their age. They began a fairly straightforward endurance training program, working out twice a week by jogging or cycling at a moderately strenuous pace, equivalent to at least 65 percent of their maximum aerobic capacity for 30 minutes. This continued for three months. At the end of that time, the researchers again biopsied the volunteers’ skin.
于是，科研人员随即又建立了一个小组，在采集了静坐不动的志愿者的臀部皮肤样本后，让这群人动起来。在研究初始阶段，这群65岁以上的志愿者皮肤跟年龄是相符的。接着开始进行非常简明的耐力训练，每周练两次，用适度剧烈的速度跑步或骑车，以其最高有氧代谢能力至少65%的水平持续运动30分钟。这样的训练持续了三个月，随后，研究者再次对他们的皮肤进行活检。
But now the samples looked quite different, with outer and inner layers that looked very similar to those of 20- to 40-year-olds. “I don’t want to over-hype the results, but, really, it was pretty remarkable to see,” said Dr. Tarnopolsky, himself a middle-aged exerciser. Under a microscope, the volunteers’ skin “looked like that of a much younger person, and all that they had done differently was exercise.”
但是在此时，他们的皮肤样本看起来全然不同了，外层和内层皮肤看起来都接近20-40岁的人群。“我不想夸大研究结果，但是真的，看起来实在太惊人了，”塔诺波斯基博士本人人到中年，常常运动。“在显微镜下，志愿者的皮肤‘看起来年轻了很多，而且他们唯一改变的就是开始运动’。”
How exercise changes skin composition is not completely clear, but in a separate portion of the study, the researchers checked for alterations in the levels of certain substances created by working muscles. Called myokines, these substances are known to enter the bloodstream and jump-start changes in cells far from the muscles themselves. In this case, the scientists found greatly augmented levels of a myokine called IL-15 in the skin samples of volunteers after exercise. Their skin samples contained almost 50 percent more IL-15 after they had been exercising than at the start of the study.
运动何以改变了皮肤构成，这一点尚不十分清楚，但在该研究的一个独立环节，研究人员检查了因肌肉工作而创造的特定物质的含量变化。这种物质称为肌肉激素(myokines)，现在已经知道它会进入血液中，并启动细胞而非肌肉本身的变化。在该研究中，科研人员发现在运动后，志愿者皮肤样本中一种称为IL-15的肌肉激素含量出现了显著增长。在3个月的运动后，他们的皮肤样本中所含的IL-15含量，比研究初始阶段增长了近50%。
The researchers suspect that additional myokines and substances are also involved in the skin changes related to exercise, Dr. Tarnopolsky said, making it unlikely that any IL-15 pill, salve or injection will ever replicate the skin benefits of a workout.
研究人员怀疑，增加的肌肉激素跟与运动相关的皮肤改变也有联系，塔诺波斯基博士说，也正因为这个原因，任何IL-15胶囊、药膏或注射针剂都不可能取代运动给皮肤带来的益处。
Nor is there evidence that exercise reverses wrinkling and other damage from the sun, some of which many of us accumulate during outdoor exercise. Still, Dr. Tarnopolsky said, “it is astonishing to consider all of the intricate ways in which exercise changes our bodies” —including the skin beneath our shorts.
同时，没有证据表明运动可以抹去日晒带来的皱纹和其他伤害，而其中一些伤害可能正是因户外运动日积月累引起的。不过，塔诺波斯基博士说：“想到锻炼以如此错综复杂的方式改变我们的身体，这真是太令人惊讶了，”——这种种变化，也包括运动短裤里的皮肤。