This is pretty much all anyone needs to know about the popularity of Kit Kat in Japan: There are nearly 300 varieties.
要想知道奇巧巧克力威化饼干(Kit Kat)在日本有多受欢迎，只需要知道这一点就够了：它在日本有近300种口味。
In addition to the (dare we call them) classics, like wasabi and purple sweet potato, new flavors are regularly introduced. In February, Nestlé, which distributes the candy in Japan, released a sake flavor in time for Valentine’s Day.
除了经典口味（如果可以这样说的话），比如芥末味和紫薯味，每过一段时间还有很多新口味推出。今年2月，在日本经销这种糖果的雀巢公司(Nestlé)在情人节前及时推出了清酒口味。
For a few weeks in December, shops sold a single stick, not the classic duo, covered in dark chocolate and coated with gold leaf for 2,016 yen, or about $16.
去年12月有几周，商店销售单块奇巧棒，而不是经典的成对装，表面涂着黑巧克力和金箔，售价2016日元（约105元人民币）。
Even for a country where shoppers can find fish-ball-flavored Pringles and adzuki bean-flavored Pepsi, actual gold candy seems extreme, but the Kit Kat holds a special place in Japan’s culinary universe.
即便是在这个有鱼丸口味品客薯片(Pringles)和红豆口味百事可乐(Pepsi)的国家，真金的糖果也显得有些极端。不过奇巧在日本饮食文化中拥有一种特殊地位。
Kit Kat’s name echoes the Japanese phrase “kitto katsu,” or “surely win” and is often sent as a gift to students before college entrance exams. It is the country’s most popular candy, according to Nestlé, which does not release sales figures.
奇巧的名字听起来很像日语中的kitto katsu，意思是“肯定获胜”，经常作为礼品送给准备考大学的学生。据雀巢称，奇巧是日本最畅销的糖果。雀巢没有透露销售数字。
Kit Kat is so popular that it is sold at high-end department stores, Kit Kat-only specialty shops and even post offices, and it is so ingrained in the nation’s snack culture that nearly every region has a signature flavor sold only in that part of the country.
奇巧在日本很受欢迎，在高端百货公司、奇巧专卖店、甚至邮局都有销售。它深深融入该国的零食文化，几乎每个地区都有一款仅在当地销售的标志性口味。
As a result a hungry traveler could eat scores of different flavors of Kit Kat. Here is but a sample of recently available flavors:
所以，游客如果饿了，可以吃到几十种不同口味的奇巧巧克力威化饼干。下面这些仅是最近日本市面上有售的众多口味中的几个例子：
Adzuki Bean · Apple · Blueberry · Butter · Cheesecake · Chili · Coconut · Edamame · Green Tea · Green Tea (Sakura) · Green Tea (Uji) · Hazelnut · Kobe Pudding · Matcha · Miso · Passion Fruit · Pear · Perfect Balance Citrus (orange, lemon, lime) · Plum · Purple Sweet Potato · Roasted Tea · Rum Raisin · Strawberry · Strawberry Maple · Wasabi
红豆、苹果、蓝莓、黄油、奶酪蛋糕、辣椒、椰子、盐水毛豆、绿茶、绿茶（樱花）、绿茶（宇治）、榛子、神户布丁、抹茶、味噌、百香果、梨、完美平衡柑橘类水果（橙子、柠檬和酸橙）、李子、紫薯、焙茶、朗姆酒葡萄干、草莓、草莓枫糖浆、芥末