Even the most clueless and bumbling gift-giver probably knows that it is not a good idea to give wrinkle cream, an electric toothbrush or a vacuum cleaner to anyone for Christmas or Hanukkah.
即便是最糊涂、最笨拙的人，给人送礼物时可能也明白，在圣诞节或者光明节送人抗皱霜、电动牙刷或者吸尘器不是什么好主意。
“Great Savings for the Holidays on Bissell” said the Amazon.com home page this week. (Category: vacuum.)
本周，Amazon.com的主页上显示：“必胜(Bissell)吸尘器节日特惠”。（类别：吸尘器）
The Estée Lauder Anti-Wrinkle Essentials Value Set was a “gift of the day” on the Macys.com holiday beauty page. Among the site’s other head-scratching holiday deals: $50 off a Sonicare electric toothbrush. (Down to $129.)
雅诗兰黛(Estée Lauder)抗皱精华超值套装则是Macys.com节日美容产品页面上的“本日礼物”。该网站还有其他一些令人困惑的节日优惠商品：Sonicare电动牙刷降价50美元（约合人民币305元），现价129美元。
All were aimed at a particular type of holiday shopper: the self-gifters — people who cannot resist taking advantage of the frenzied seasonal sale wars to buy a few things for themselves. (Those “buy one, get one free offers” are particularly potent bait.)
这些活动都瞄准了节日购物者中的一个特定类型：买礼物送给自己的人——他们无法抗拒疯狂的季节性折扣大战的诱惑，准备给自己买几件东西。（那种“买一赠一”的活动就更有诱惑力了。）
Even the classic gift of affection for others — jewelry — is fair game, and retailers know it. Under the banner Black Friday Jewelry Deals, Macy’s website coaxed: “This holiday season, get an unforgettable gift for a loved one (or yourself). Black Friday jewelry is a go-to choice for the ultimate present under the tree.”
甚至是向他人表达爱意的经典礼物——珠宝——也成为了这些人的目标，零售商们对此心知肚明。在“黑色星期五珠宝优惠”(Black Friday Jewelry Deals)的广告下，梅西百货(Macy’s)的网站这样劝诱你：“这个假日销售季，送给心爱的人（或自己）一件难忘的礼物。黑色星期五珠宝是你放在圣诞树下的不二之选。”
A number of studies show that since the recession, and even a year or two before, self-gifters have been growing in both numbers and the dollars they spend. Perhaps these shoppers have reasoned that big sales offer the only legitimate excuse to spend for themselves — or in years when their finances were improving, they were finally able to ease up enough to splurge on something.
多项研究显示，自从经济衰退以来，甚至与一两年前相比，给自己买礼物的人在人数和支出金额上都有所增加。也许这些购物者觉得，大幅折扣提供了唯一恰当的借口，让他们花一些钱在自己身上——或者在财务状况有所改善的年头，他们终于能够放松心情，在某些东西上挥霍一下了。
Whatever the motivation, they’ve become a special demographic niche that retailers depend on heavily, so much so that many preholiday shopping surveys now track them.
无论动机如何，他们已经成为零售商倚重的一个特殊的消费者市场，以至于很多节日前的购物调查项目现在也会追踪他们的情况。
But some recent surveys suggest this year that these shoppers may be a feeling a little less indulgent — a worrying prospect for companies heading into a season already filled with uncertainty and weak sales projections.
但最近的一些调查显示，这类购物者今年可能会稍微收敛一些——对于零售商来说前景堪忧，今年的圣诞购物季本来就已充满了不确定性和销售疲软的预测。
Prosper Insights & Analytics, a consumer intelligence firm that conducts surveys on holiday spending for the National Retail Federation, for example, found that a smaller share of holiday shoppers planned to take advantage of discounts to buy “nongift items” for themselves or their family this holiday season, compared with last year or the year before.
例如，消费者情报公司Prosper Insights & Analytics为美国零售联合会(National Retail Federation)进行的假日消费调查显示，与去年或前年相比，在今年假日销售季，计划趁打折为自己或家人购买“非礼物商品”的购物者比例所有下降。
Given that impulse-buying promotes self-gifting, retailers will be doing everything they can this year – overtly, subtly and even subliminally — to tempt people to be more like Robert Kissell of Nags Head, N.C.
鉴于人们常常会在冲动之下购买自用的东西，零售商今年会挖空心思——公开地、巧妙地、甚至下意识地——诱惑更多的人像北卡罗来纳州纳格斯黑德的罗伯特·基塞尔(Robert Kissell)那样购物。
Mr. Kissell, 25, is an incurable self-gifter. When the stores open Thanksgiving night and Black Friday morning, he will be on the chase for a 60-inch LED smart TV at Walmart that he says will be on sale for $688, a slow cooker at Ace ($15), an Android tablet at Kmart ($39) and a whole bunch of Blu-ray discs at Target.
基塞尔现年25岁，爱给自己买礼物到无可救药的地步。当感恩节晚上和“黑色星期五”一早的店铺折扣活动开始时，他会到沃尔玛(Walmart)抢一台特价688美元的60英寸LED智能电视，到Ace抢一个15美元的炖锅，到凯马特(Kmart)抢一台39美元的Android平板电脑，还要去塔吉特(Target)买一大堆蓝光光碟。
He plans to keep every one for himself.
所有这些都是他买给自己的。
Mr. Kissell hastens to add that he has a wife, parents and others for whom he is also plotting to buy great presents. But the reality is that the number of people on anyone’s gift list – and the general amount they will spend on each – is, in economists’ terms, fairly inelastic. It simply doesn’t vary that much from year to year.
基塞尔也连忙补充说，他会计划给妻子、父母和其他人购买很棒的礼物。但实际情况是，任何人礼品单上的人数——以及他们花在每个人身上的金额——用经济学家的术语来说，相当缺乏弹性。也就是说，每年的变化不大。
For retailers, the potential for growth is greater with self-gifters because personal wants or domestic needs know fewer limits. And they can be justified as a smart household budget move.
对于零售商来说，“买礼物给自己”类别的增长潜力更大一些，因为在购买个人或者家庭需要的物品时，人们花钱的限制会比较少。而且也可以以精打细算作为正当的理由。
Hence the vacuum cleaner strategy – or as Marshal Cohen, chief retail analyst at NPD Group, a research and consulting firm, describes it, promoting items that really aren’t gifts.
因此“吸尘器策略”应运而生。用研究咨询公司NPD集团(NPD Group)首席零售分析师马歇尔·科恩(Marshal Cohen)的话来说，这种策略就是：推广不是礼物的礼物。
“How many people are you going to buy a big-screen TV for?” asked Mr. Cohen. “That item is not necessarily a gift-giving item.” Retailers, he said, “create it so the price point is so attractive” that it is very easy to rationalize buying it for yourself or even as “a family gift.”
“你打算为多少人买一台大屏幕电视机呢？”科恩问，“这种商品不一定是通常意义上的礼品。”他说，零售商“推出这种策略，把商品的价格降到极具吸引力的程度”，让人们很容易觉得给自己买或者作为“家庭礼物”都是合情合理的。
“You are doing yourself a disservice if you don’t wait to see what’s available,” said Mr. Kissell. “The discounts really are worthwhile,” he continued, adding, “I would never buy a TV the other 10 months of the year.”
“如果你不等一等，看看有什么折扣商品，你就是跟自己过不去。”基塞尔说，“这些折扣真的很划算，”他继续补充说，“我绝不会在一年中的其他10个月买电视机。”
Consequently, stores and e-commerce sites are rife with big-ticket holiday promotions like this one from BestBuy this week: “Black Friday Prices Now on Major Appliances.” Among the deals, holiday shoppers could save $400 on a Samsung steam washer-dryer.
结果，实体商店和电商网站上就充满了大件商品的节日促销优惠。比如，百思买(BestBuy)本周开展“大型家电黑色星期五特价”的促销，购买三星(Samsung)蒸汽洗衣干衣机可以省400美元，诸如此类。
Convince enough consumers to make big purchases like these and it can mean the difference between a good and a disappointing holiday season, some analysts say.
一些分析师说，说服足够的消费者进行这样的大件商品采购，就可能会让一个惨淡的假日销售季变得收获满满。
“I think retailers, really, if they look at self-gifting correctly, holiday is obviously a season where they’ve got a lot of shoppers coming through stores so if they can get shoppers looking at other merchandise they can definitely entice those self-gifters,” said Pam Goodfellow, the consumer insights director at Prosper.
“我认为，零售商如果能正确看待人们给自己买礼物这种行为，那么节假日很明显就会有很多消费者逛商店。所以如果他们能让顾客也看看其他商品，绝对可以吸引那些给自己买礼物的人。”Prosper公司的消费者洞察总监帕姆·古德费洛(Pam Goodfellow)说。
In New York the other day, the windows of the Macy’s flagship store were in full holiday dress recreating the “Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus” story. Inside the store, red placards dangled from the ceiling, suggesting to shoppers that the point wasn’t exclusively about giving: “Give. Get. Share.”
几天前，纽约梅西旗舰店橱窗的节日装饰重现了《真的，弗吉尼娅，圣诞老人是真的》(Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus)的故事。店内天花板垂下的红色标语条上写着“给予、获得、分享”(Give. Get. Share.)，暗示顾客，礼物并非仅仅是为了送给别人。
On the makeup floor, similar signs beckoned with another mixed message: “Love it. Want it. Give it.”
在化妆品楼面，也有一条类似的、有着多重含义的标语：“爱它、要它、给它”(Love it. Want it. Give it.)。
(Incidentally, Prosper’s research of numerous big-name retailers has found that Macy’s customers are the most likely to self-gift, Ms. Goodfellow said.)
（顺便说一句，古德费洛表示，Prosper公司调查了很多大牌零售商后发现，梅西的顾客买东西送给自己的可能性最大。）
Across the street at Sephora, the makeup and beauty products retailer, brightly colored signs announced, “Giftopia, Our merry crazy gifting holiday.”
街对面的化妆及美容产品零售商丝芙兰(Sephora)则用颜色亮丽的标语宣布，“送礼之季，我们快乐疯狂的赠礼假日。”
Mr. Cohen said makeup was another area with big holiday promotions. But he noted that, with the exception of fragrances, it holds far more allure as a self-gift than a real gift.
科恩说，美容化妆品是节日促销的另一个重要类别。但他也指出，相对于真正送给别人当礼物，人们买这些东西更有可能是自己使用，香水除外。
“Really,” he said, “how many people are you going to give lipstick?”
“想想吧，你会给多少人送唇膏？”他说。