When Donald J. Trump promised to turn Muslims away from American shores, they wagged their fingers.
当唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)承诺拒绝穆斯林进入美国时，他们纷纷对其加以指责。
When he mimicked a journalist for his lifelong disability, they tsked-tsked.
当他模仿一名终身残疾的记者时，他们表示了自己的不满。
When he mocked the mother of a valorous soldier killed in combat, they threatened to walk away from him.
当他奚落一名英勇阵亡的士兵的母亲时，他们威胁说要离开他。
But Republican leaders never did. They justified his behavior, they minimized his offenses, they excused his insults.
但共和党领袖从未付诸实践。他们为他的行为辩解、淡化他的过错、原谅他的辱骂。
So why this?
那么为什么会上演现在这一幕呢？
Why did a decade-old three-minute video provoke a sudden revolt by party officials against their nominee, an uprising that could very well destroy their chances of taking the White House?
为何一段十年前录制的三分钟长的视频，会引发共和党官员突然开始反对他们自己的提名人选呢？这场反抗很可能会葬送他们入主白宫的机会。
Because the glee with which he bragged about sexually assaulting women, by forcibly kissing them and grabbing their genitals, turned a boorish man into an outright predator.
因为吹嘘自己用强吻和抓下体的方式骚扰女性时的那种兴奋，把他从一个粗鲁的男人变成了一个彻底的捕食者。
Because the voice captured on a microphone and the face caught on camera are indisputably Mr. Trump’s, breaking through to a distrustful public that doubts much news media coverage but believes powerfully in what it can see and hear for itself.
因为麦克风录下的声音和镜头捕捉到的那张脸毋庸置疑是特朗普的。它们出现在了心存怀疑的公众面前。公众会怀疑新闻媒体的很多报道，但他们坚信自己亲眼看到和亲耳听到的。
Because it turns out that even the most self-interested members of the political class, the true weather vanes swinging in the wind, have their limits.
因为事实证明即便是这个政治群体中最自私的成员，那些真正随风摇摆的风向标，也有自己的极限。
After 16 months of accumulated doubts, embarrassments and indignities, they are finally fed up.
在怀疑、尴尬和耻辱积压16个月后，他们终于厌倦了。
As senators, representatives and party elders rescinded their endorsements of Mr. Trump in unrelenting waves on Saturday, those who had stubbornly stuck by their nominee described their rejection in almost cathartic terms, saying he had surrendered any legitimate claim to their loyalty.
周六当天，随着参议员、众议员和党内元老一波接一波地收回了他们对特朗普的支持，那些曾经的忠实支持者，用近乎宣泄的语言表示自己拒绝再支持他，称他放弃了一切值得他们效忠的资格。
“He has forfeited the right to be our party’s nominee” was how Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska put it, saying she would not vote for Mr. Trump.
阿拉斯加州联邦参议员丽莎·穆尔科斯基(Lisa Murkowski)说“他交出了成为我党提名人选的权利”。她表示自己不会投特朗普的票。
It did not repel everyone: Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Senator Mitch McConnell did not waver from their endorsement of Mr. Trump.
并不是所有人都是这样：众议院议长保罗·D·瑞安(Paul D. Ryan)和参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)对特朗普的支持并未动摇。
But the image of Republicans running for the exits, a month before a presidential election, is as extraordinary as a party’s nominee using vulgar, violent language that seemed to reduce an entire gender to sexual anatomy. And this time, no amount of spin seems sufficient to control the damage Mr. Trump has wrought.
但在离大选只剩一个月时，共和党人争相退出这一场面的反常程度，不亚于一个政党的提名人选使用粗俗、暴力的语言，要把整整一个性别贬低成性器官。而且这一次，似乎再多的倾向性解释都不足以控制特朗普造成的破坏。
When he crossed the line in the past, there was always a ready escape hatch, a set of rationalizations offered by his slack-jawed, but ultimately accommodating, Republican allies.
过去，当他有过分的言行时，总是有准备好的紧急出口。他那些目瞪口呆但终究还是乐于提供帮助的共和党盟友会做出一系列的辩解。
He had, they said, erred in his excessive zeal to protect the country’s borders, its workers or its safety (by calling Mexican immigrants rapists or proposing to bar Muslims from the United States). Or he had, they said, simply returned a provocation with a counterpunch (by ridiculing Carly Fiorina’s face as unpresidential or skewering Rosie O’Donnell for her weight).
他们说他（直呼墨西哥移民为强奸犯或提议禁止穆斯林入境）因为过分急切地要保护美国的边境、劳动者和安全，因此犯了错，或是说他（嘲笑卡莉·菲奥里纳[Carly Fiorina]长着一张不适合当总统的脸或指责罗茜·奥唐奈[Rosie O'Donnell]的体重）只是以其人之道还治其人之身。
But aboard the bus with the Hollywood flatterer Billy Bush, those strained arguments collapsed. There was no aggressor to fight back. There was no larger issue at stake.
但在那辆还坐着对好莱坞阿谀奉承的比利·布什(Billy Bush)的车上，这些牵强的理由失效了。没有要反击的侵略者。也不涉及更大的问题。
There was just lasciviousness in its purest and cruelest form.
只有以最纯粹、最残忍的形式表现出来的淫荡。
“It was just this unprovoked view of women by this 59-year-old man with daughters,” said Russ Schriefer, a longtime Republican strategist and ad maker who has spent his career studying the effect of images and words in campaigns.
“就是一个自己也有女儿的59岁男人，对女性采取这种无端的态度，”长期担任共和党策略师和广告制作人的拉斯·施里弗(Russ Schriefer)说。在其职业生涯中，施里弗一直在研究图像和言语在竞选中的影响。
“It becomes,” he said, “indefensible.”
他说，“变得不可原谅。”
Authenticity is Mr. Trump’s brand. But the politically destructive force of the video lay in its power to pull back the curtain on his true self.
真诚是特朗普的名片。但那段视频在政治上的破坏力在于它拉开帘子，露出他的真实面貌的力量。
Surrounded by sycophants on a luxury bus, Mr. Trump brags about how he aggressively tried to seduce a married woman, later ridiculing her figure as ruined by fake breasts.
在一辆豪华大巴上，四周围绕着阿谀奉承者的特朗普吹嘘自己如何侵犯性地试图勾引一名已婚女子，后来又嘲笑对方的身材被一对假胸毁了。
He then spies an attractive actress waiting for him outside the bus and regales his companions with his ability to force himself on women sexually because of his celebrity.
然后，他看见了一名在车外等他的漂亮女演员，并用自己因为是名人所以能够强行和女性发生性关系的话让同行的人乐不可支。
“When you’re a star, they let you do it,” he said.
“是明星的话，她们就会允许你这么做，”他说。
After salivating over the sight of the actress, Mr. Trump descends from the bus and acts like a gentleman. It is a moment of fraudulence that resonates deeply for any women or men who fear what people might say when their backs are turned.
在贪婪地打量了女演员的容貌后，他下了车，并表现得像一位绅士一样。这欺骗性的一幕，让所有担心人们可能会在自己转过身后说些什么的人感同身受，无论男女。
“It’s Trump behind closed doors, in a candid moment in a nonpolitical setting, and this is the true inner Donald Trump you are hearing,” said Tad Devine, a veteran adviser and ad maker for Democratic presidential candidates.
“这是门背后的特朗普，在非政治场合袒露心声的特朗普，你听到的是他内心深处那个真正的特朗普，”服务于民主党总统候选人的资深顾问、广告制作人塔德·迪瓦恩(Tad Devine)说。
It is difficult to overstate the visceral power of the recording, which left no ambiguity about the coarseness of the words or the identity of the man who had uttered them.
录音本身的力量怎么形容都不过分。对于言语的粗鲁程度和发出言论的男人的身份，它不会留下任何歧义。
“He can’t say, ‘It’s not what you think it is,’ or, ‘It’s been doctored,’” Mr. Schriefer said. “It happened.”
“他不能说，‘不是你想的那样’，或‘它被做了手脚’，”施里弗说。“这就是当时的情景。”
Four years ago, Democrats spent tens of millions of dollars making the case that Mitt Romney was an unfeeling, out-of-touch plutocrat.
四年前，民主党人花了数千万美元证明米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)是一个冷酷无情、脱离民众的财阀。
But it was a grainy, secretly recorded video of him dismissing 47 percent of the country as dependent on the government that ultimately sliced through the electorate and badly undermined his campaign.
不过，当时是一段音质粗糙、偷偷录下的视频最终击中全体选民，严重损害了他的竞选。罗姆尼在其中鄙夷地表示这个国家47%的人都在靠政府养活。
“This is Romney’s 47 percent video times 10,” Mr. Devine said of Mr. Trump’s remarks.
“这个视频的影响是罗姆尼47%言论的十倍，”迪瓦恩如此谈到特朗普的言论。
Mr. Trump’s churlish behavior toward women is well documented, including in a 4,700-word investigation by The New York Times.
特朗普对女性的粗暴言行被详细地记录在案，包括纽约时报发表的一篇4700字的调查报道。
As a boss, he told female employees that they needed to lose weight. As a boyfriend, he asked women to rate his previous romantic partners on a scale of one to 10, one of them recalled.
作为老板，他告诉女性雇员她们需要减肥。据一位前女友回忆，作为男朋友，他要求女性以十分制给自己以往的伴侣打分。
As a father, he marveled at his daughter’s body. “She’s hot, right?” a contestant in one of his beauty pageants recalled him saying. And as a husband, he was accused of rape by his first wife, Ivana, though she later backed away from that claim.
作为父亲，他居然对女儿的身体感到好奇。“她身材热辣，对吧？”他举办的选美比赛的一名参赛者记得他这么讲过。作为丈夫，他的第一任妻子伊万娜(Ivana)指控他强奸，尽管后来她放弃了这个说法。
But his matter-of-fact denigration of women was perhaps never captured in such a vivid and undeniable way as it was on the video.
但他对女性如此气定神闲的贬损，恐怕还从未以如此生动、无法否认的方式记录下来，就像那段视频里那样。
Even women who have experienced Mr. Trump’s aggressions firsthand found the recording to be startling, clarifying and, perhaps, vindicating.
甚至那些亲身经历过特朗普先生侵犯行为的女性，也会发现这段录音令人震惊，有助于澄清事实，或许还能证明自己的无辜。
Temple Taggart was a 21-year-old beauty contestant when, she said, Mr. Trump kissed her on the lips, without invitation, at a pageant event. It was an unwanted advance she has turned over in her head for years.
在当年，21岁的坦普尔·塔加特(Temple Taggart)是选美的参赛者，她说，在某个选美活动中，特朗普直接亲了她的嘴唇。在之后的数年时间里，这段不请自来的挑逗时常令她感到恶心。
Watching him relive his sexual aggressions on the video, she said in an interview on Saturday, “made me feel a lot better.”
她在上周日接受采访的时候说，看到他在视频里回味自己的性侵行为，“让我感觉好了不少。”
“It was like: ‘Thank you. Now no one can say I made this up,’” she added.
“就是：‘谢谢你。现在再也没有人可以说那是我胡编的了，’”她补充道。
Mr. Trump’s overheard words, about pushing himself on women simply because he could, caused her to see the experience in a new and even harsher light.
特朗普这段被人偷听到的话——强迫女性接受他的调戏仅仅是因为自己有资本——令她以一种全新的，甚至是更为冷峻的眼光来看待那段经历。
“Back then,” she said, “I was judging him with very innocent eyes.”
“那会儿，”她说，“我还是太单纯，哪里能看得透他。”
The depth of the revulsion unleashed since Friday afternoon revealed something else: Despite the political protocol and standards that Mr. Trump has shattered throughout his campaign, a proud party does hold something sacred.
自从上周五下午以来，该事件引发的反应之强烈，也说明了其他问题：虽然政治礼仪和种种标准已被特朗普在选举活动中毁坏殆尽，但一个充满骄傲的政党依旧有着不可触碰的底线。
Republicans still see themselves as the party of family values, as vanguards of a civilized society that teaches boys to grow into men — to put away childish things, like raunchy descriptions of women, and to demonstrate maturity and respect. Mr. Trump was almost 60 when he made his remarks. His third wife was pregnant.
共和党人仍然自视为一个看重家庭价值观的政党，一个文明社会的引领者，男孩们在这个社会里接受成长为男子汉的教导——不要再做那些幼稚的事情，比如以不堪入耳的语言谈论女性，而要展现出成熟和尊重。特朗普说那番话的时候，已年近六旬。当时他的第三任太太正在怀孕。
As a presidential candidate, he has run not on detailed policies or a compelling record of achievement, but on the idea that he is the furthest thing from a politician. He would always call it as he saw it.
作为一名总统候选人，他的竞选之本不是什么具体的政策或者引人瞩目的成就，而是自己最不像政客云云。他一直都是有话直说的。
He did just that on the video. But this time, his party could not tolerate his vision.
在那段视频中，他就是这样。但这一次，他所在的党无法再容忍他的看法了。