The Coalition
联盟
Mrs. Clinton can expect little if any opposition in the Democratic primaries. In the general election, she will need to win over the so-called Obama coalition ofblacks and young, college-educated white voters who supported Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012. But she will also need to maintain her base of support among white working-class women while battling it out for college-educated women in the suburbs. White working-class men have drifted away from the Democratic Party, but Mrs. Clinton has appeal among those who still harbor warm feelings for Bill Clinton. Hispanics overwhelmingly supported Mrs. Clinton over Mr. Obama in the 2008 Democratic primaries, but overhauling the nation’s immigration laws has become a more divisive issue since then, and some Hispanics wonder how committed Mrs. Clinton is to it. To win crucial states like Florida and Colorado, she will need to convince them that she is on their side.
克林顿在民主党初选中应该不会遇到太强烈的反对。在大选中，她将需要赢得由黑人、年轻人，以及受过大学教育的白人选民组成的所谓“奥巴马联盟”的支持。这些人群在2008年和2012年的大选中都是奥巴马的支持者。不过，她还需要维持白人工薪阶层女性对她的支持，并同时争取郊区受过大学教育的女性选民。工薪阶层的白人男性已经离民主党越来越远，但对于那些仍然对比尔·克林顿(Bill Clinton)抱有好感的人来说，希拉里·克林顿颇有吸引力。在2008年的民主党初选中，西语裔对克林顿的支持程度明显超过了奥巴马，但自那以后，全面改革美国移民法律就成了一个颇具争议性的问题。一些西语裔选民还质疑，克林顿对这个问题的态度到底有多认真。为了赢得佛罗里达和科罗拉多等关键州的支持，她还需要让他们相信，自己站在他们那一边。
The Map
地图
Ohio will again be the classic battleground, but changing demographics have put other states in play, including Colorado, Nevada and Virginia. Pennsylvania, where Mrs. Clinton won the 2008 primary by nine points, will be a bellwether. Michigan and New Hampshire will also be hotly contested. Mrs. Clinton’s team has hinted that she will also invest in potential long shots like North Carolina and, depending on resources, Georgia, with its growing population of youngerblack and Latino voters. And as much as they will play down the importance of Florida — especially if Jeb Bush becomes the Republican nominee — the Sunshine State will be critical to a Clinton victory.
俄亥俄州将再次成为典型的战场，但人口结构的变化，也会使科罗拉多、内华达和弗吉尼亚等州成为角逐的焦点。克林顿曾以九个百分点的优势获得2008年宾夕法尼亚州的初选，该州将成为一个风向标。密歇根州和新罕布什尔州的竞争也将十分激烈。克林顿的团队已经暗示，她也将对北卡罗来纳州等胜选可能性较小的州进行投入，根据资源多少，可能也会对乔治亚州给予投入，因为该州较为年轻的黑人和拉丁裔选民人数正在不断增加。尽管他们会弱化佛罗里达州的重要性——尤其是倘若杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)赢得共和党提名的话。但是佛罗里达这个阳光州对克林顿的胜选十分关键。
The Message
传达的信息
Expect a nearly constant emphasis on leaving a better country to voters’ children and grandchildren. Mrs. Clinton will weave in her own experiences as a mother and grandmother to try to persuade voters that she is best positioned to address income inequality and to aid the middle class. Her economic message will highlight issues that resonate with women in particular, including a higher minimum wage, paid family and medical leave, early childhood education, and affordable child care.
克林顿基本上会不断地强调，给选民的子孙后代留下一个更好的国家。克林顿将会利用自己作为母亲和外祖母的经历，设法令选民相信，她最有可能解决收入不平等问题，帮助中产阶级。她在经济政策方面传达的信息，将会特别突出在女性中引起共鸣的问题，比如提高最低工资标准、提供带薪家庭及医疗病假、支持幼儿教育，以及合理的儿童保育费用。
Why She Will Win
她为何会赢
Mrs. Clinton has nearly 100 percent name recognition as well as a built-in base of support among working-class women. Republicans will need to catch up, andthey face a potentially brutal primary season in which they will be pushed to the right on issues like immigration and education, which could drive independents into Mrs. Clinton’s arms in a general election. But demographics are the biggest obstacle for Republicans: Unless the nominee can win over Hispanics and make inroads with women and young voters, Mrs. Clinton starts with a significant edge thanks to population changes nationally and, particularly, in many of the likely battleground states. Mrs. Clinton should also enjoy an enormous financial advantage in a campaign that is expected to cost her $2.5 billion, with the help of “super PAC” donations and nearly universal support within the Democratic establishment.
克林顿在工薪阶级女性中几乎享有100%的知名度和稳固的群众基础。共和党人需要奋起直追，但他们将面临一个可能非常残酷的初选过程，这会把他们在移民、教育等问题上进一步向右推，可能会在大选中促使中间派选民支持克林顿。但对于共和党人来说，最大的障碍在于人口结构：除非共和党候选人能够赢得西语裔选民的支持，争取女性选民及年轻选民的支持，否则克林顿一开始就拥有很大的优势，这种优势源于全国范围内人口结构的变化，特别是在很多潜在的关键州。在超级政治行动委员会(super PAC)的帮助下，以及民主党高层几乎普遍的支持下，克林顿还应该享有资金优势，她的竞选活动预计将会耗资25亿美元（约合155亿元人民币）。
Why She Won't
她为何会输
Mrs. Clinton was similarly well positioned when she declared her candidacy in 2007, only to be defeated by a surprisingly strong opponent, Mr. Obama. The biggest concerns now, by contrast, are internal: Can she avoid the managerial and strategic dysfunction that plagued her campaign in the 2008 primaries? Can her younger operatives, who rely on data and analytics, be empowered even if some in the Clintons’ old guard of friends and advisers favor a more traditional approach? Can she appeal to young people, and inspire blacks who were energized by Mr. Obama? Above all, can she represent the future more than the past?
克林顿2007年宣布参选时同样也处于有利地位，结果被极其强大的对手奥巴马所击败。相比之下，目前最大的担忧是内部问题：她能避免2008年初选期间，困扰竞选活动的管理和策略失灵问题吗？考虑到克林顿夫妇较为保守的朋友和顾问倾向于更加传统的方式，她依赖数据及分析的年轻竞选团队，会被赋予足够权力吗？她能吸引年轻选民，并激发起那些受到奥巴马鼓舞的黑人选民吗？最重要的是，她能更多地代表未来，而不是过去吗？