How do New York Times journalists use technology in their jobs and in their personal lives? Choe Sang-Hun, The Times’s Korea correspondent who is based in Seoul, discusses the tech he’s using.
纽约时报记者在工作和个人生活中是如何利用科技产品的？时报驻首尔的朝鲜半岛记者崔相焄(Choe Sang-Hun)谈了谈他使用的技术。
As our Korea correspondent, what are some challenges you face reporting on North Korea, and how do you use tech to overcome them?
作为我们的朝韩记者，在报道朝鲜方面的挑战有哪些，你是如何利用技术克服的？
North Korea is a difficult topic to report for a simple reason: Journalists are not allowed to visit and do independent reporting there. Even when they get there with a tourist visa, they are not allowed to travel, visit places and interview people the way they do in democratic countries. So journalists try to figure out what is going on inside North Korea and interpret it the best they can from the outside.
朝鲜是个很难报道的题材，原因很简单：记者是不被允许进入该国做独立报道的。即便用旅游签证前往那里，也无法前往各地，像在民主国家那样探访某地、采访他人。因此记者要待在外面，努力去弄清朝鲜内部的状况，并尽可能好地作出解读。
And they monitor North Korea’s official news media.
而且他们会监控朝鲜的官方媒体。
In fact, the North’s state-run news outlets, especially the websites of its ruling Workers’ Party newspaper Rodong Sinmun and its Korean Central News Agency, are the single most important sources of information. When North Korea has something to say to the outside world, it almost invariably speaks through K.C.N.A. The official news media is filled with propaganda. Still, if you read it over a period of time, you can develop insights into the country’s ideology, policy goals and world views.
事实上，朝鲜的国有新闻机构，尤其是执政的劳动党的报纸《劳动新闻》和朝鲜中央通讯社的网站，是最重要的信息源。每当朝鲜要向世界宣布些什么的时候，基本上都是通过朝中社。官方新闻媒体充斥着政治宣传。然而，只要你读的足够多，就能练出眼力，从中看出朝鲜的意识形态、政策目标和世界观。
What’s your favorite tech tool for doing your job?
你在工作中最喜欢的技术工具是什么？
I use Evernote to help organize my life as a journalist.
我使用Evernote来帮助自己组织作为记者的生活。
With a few clicks, you can clip a news article, commentary, analyst paper, PDF file, video link and other contents you find on the web and want to save for a later reference, and store them in a designated online “notebook.” I find this “Web Clipper” function particularly useful when researching a certain topic, say North Korea’s market reforms, for weeks or longer; I create a “North Korea Economy” notebook and save related contents there for easy access.
只需点击几下，就可以剪切新闻文章、评论、分析文章、PDF文件，视频链接，以及任何在网络上找到并希望保存下来供日后参考的内容，还可以将它们存储在指定的在线“笔记本”中。我发现这个“网络剪藏”功能在需要对某个主题进行几周乃至更长时间的研究时特别有用。比如说朝鲜的市场改革，我创建了一个名叫“朝鲜经济”的笔记本，用来保存相关内容，方便我随时查阅。
What is Samsung’s influence on South Korea, since the tech company’s revenue accounts for a significant portion of the country’s gross domestic product?
三星公司的收入占了韩国国内生产总值的很大一部分，这家科技公司对韩国的影响是什么？
Samsung is the biggest among the chaebol, a handful of family-run conglomerates that have dominated the South Korean economy for decades. The country’s top 10 chaebol generate the equivalent of more than 80 percent of the country’s G.D.P. Samsung’s flagship company, Samsung Electronics, alone is responsible for 20 percent of the country’s exports.
韩国有几个家族企业集团，几十年来一直占据着韩国经济的主导地位，称为“财阀”，三星是其中最大的一家。该国前十大财阀产出的GDP占全国的80%以上。仅仅三星的旗舰公司三星电子就占据全国出口量的20％。
One can’t talk about how well or badly South Korea’s economy is doing without talking about Samsung. Samsung has a pervasive presence in the country. It produces best-selling smartphones, TV sets and refrigerators. It runs insurance, shipbuilding and construction companies, to just name a few of its dozens of affiliates. If she likes, a South Korean can live in a “Republic of Samsung”: She can get married and honeymoon in Samsung hotels; have her baby delivered in a Samsung hospital; take him to a Samsung amusement park; send him to a Samsung university; and stock her Samsung apartment with Samsung home appliances bought with a Samsung credit card.
谈及韩国经济的好坏时，三星是绝对无法回避的。三星在全国范围内无所不在。它生产畅销的智能手机、电视机和冰箱。它经营保险业，造船业和建筑公司，这还仅仅是它数十种附属机构中的几个。如果愿意，一个韩国人可以生活在“三星共和国”里：她可以在三星酒店里结婚和度蜜月；在三星医院里生孩子；带孩子去三星游乐园；送他进三星大学；并且用三星信用卡为自己的三星公寓添置三星家电。
But the name Samsung also has a darker side among Koreans. Six of the 10 top chaebol leaders, including Samsung’s chairman, Lee Kun-hee, have been convicted of white-collar crimes, including bribery, although they have never spent much time in jail. If Samsung symbolizes wealth and technological savvy, many Koreans also accuse the corporate behemoth of corruption and excessive power.
但是三星这个名字在韩国人的心目中也有黑暗的一面。十大财阀领导人之中有六人被判定犯有贿赂等白领罪行，包括三星董事长李健熙(Lee Kun-hee)，尽管他们从未入狱服刑。虽然三星象征着财富和科技智慧，但是许多韩国人也指责这家企业巨大的腐败和过度的权力。
Mr. Lee’s son, Samsung’s vice chairman, Lee Jae-yong, who has been running the conglomerate while his father remains bedridden after a stroke, is now under arrest and on trial on charges of bribing Park Geun-hye, the impeached and ousted former president of South Korea.
李健熙的儿子，三星副董事长李在镕(Lee Jae-yong)在父亲中风卧床期间一直经营这家企业，因涉嫌贿赂遭弹劾及罢黜的韩国总统朴槿惠，他目前已被捕受审。
How does Samsung affect the way you live and work?
三星是如何影响了你的生活和工作方式？
I use only three Samsung products in my office — a Samsung TV set, a Samsung fax/printer and the Samsung monitor for my Dell desktop — though many of the tech products around me at home and in my office may contain Samsung components, like computer chips.
我在办公室只使用三种三星产品——一台三星电视机，一台三星传真/打印机，以及跟我的戴尔(Dell)台式主机搭配的三星显示器——不过我家里和办公室周围的很多科技产品可能含有三星元件，比如计算机芯片。
I used to use a Samsung Galaxy Note smartphone until I switched to an iPhone three years ago. I like my iPhone, but I have a major complaint about it: It doesn’t allow you to record your phone conversations. What if a spokesman calls you back and dictates a statement while you are driving a car or standing in a crowded subway car? With my old Samsung phone, I could just tap the screen a couple times to record the conversation. You can’t do that with an iPhone.
我用过一款三星盖乐世智能手机(Samsung Galaxy Note)，三年前换成了iPhone。我喜欢iPhone，但它有个大问题：它不允许你进行电话录音。如果你正在开车或站在拥挤的地铁车厢中，这时一位发言人给你回电话，口述一项声明，你怎么办？在我原来的三星手机上，我只用对着屏幕敲几下，就能把谈话录下来。但iPhone就不行。
Recording phone conversations is legal in South Korea, and journalists and others routinely do it. Samsung and others market smartphones with a built-in phone-recording function. Apple doesn’t. I am thinking seriously of switching back to an Android phone when I retire my iPhone.
在韩国，电话录音是合法的，记者和其他人经常这样做。三星等品牌也在推广带有内置电话录音功能的智能手机。但苹果不行。我在认真考虑不用这部iPhone之后，换回安卓系统的手机。
Beyond your job, what tech product are you obsessed with in your daily life?
在工作之外，你在日常生活中喜欢用哪些科技产品？
I’m not savvy with tech products. I have my desktop, my company-issued MacBook Air and my iPhone. That’s about all the tech hardware I use. Online, though, I use the Naver and Daum maps all the time when I travel and go to an appointment. They are like Google maps, but more convenient to use in South Korea. Naver and Daum are the country’s two biggest web portals and search engines. Google holds only a minor share in the search engine market of South Korea.
我对科技产品不是很精通。我有一部台式电脑，公司还给我配了MacBook Air和iPhone。基本上，我用的技术硬件就这些。不过我旅行或赴约时，会使用Naver和Daum的地图。它们类似于谷歌地图，但在韩国用起来更方便。Naver和Daum是韩国最大的两个门户网站和搜索引擎。谷歌在韩国的搜索引擎市场上只占较小的份额。
Kakao Talk, the country’s most widely used messenger app, is a must-have for anyone who wants to stay connected in South Korea. Government spokesmen send news releases and media notices through Kakao Talk. Reporters put in queries through Kakao Talk.
Kakao Talk是韩国使用最广泛的即时通讯应用程序。对任何一个想在韩国保持联系的人来说，它都是必备软件。政府发言人通过Kakao Talk发布新闻和媒体通知。记者们通过Kakao Talk提出询问。
I used to use my Kindle a lot, but not anymore. I have switched back to paper books. But Kindle is still very convenient when I am traveling and want to keep my bag light.
过去我经常使用Kindle，现在不用了。我又开始看纸质书。不过，我旅行时想让背包轻一点的话，用Kindle依然很方便。