For a month now, I have been spying on my apartment.
我监控自己的公寓已经有一个月了。
I have spied in the afternoon, and I have spied late at night. Since I can see most clearly into the living room, my voyeurism has been focused there.
我在下午开过监控，深夜开过监控。因为客厅是我可以看得最清楚的地方，所以我的窥伺就集中在那里。
Often I see only an empty room that could use a little art on the walls. Sometimes I catch the cat sleeping on the rug. One night last week, I watched my girlfriend watch TV. My vantage was over her shoulders, as if I were standing behind her, though she had no idea my eyes were trained on her.
通常我所看到的只有空荡荡的房间，那里的墙上应该挂些艺术品。有时候我能看到家里的猫在地毯上睡觉。上周有天晚上，我看到女友在看电视。我的摄像头就在她肩膀上方，仿佛我就站在她身后一样，只不过她完全不知道我在看她。
Before you call me a stalker, know that my girlfriend has been spying on me, too. When I worked from home a few weeks ago, I received an email that read, “Chew, chew, chew.” It turned out that she could hear and see me munching on a salad from her office — six miles away.
你们先别急着称我为窥私狂，要知道，我的女友也在监控我。几周前，当我在家工作时收到一封邮件，上面写着：“嚼，嚼，嚼。”原来，她能从六英里（约合10公里）以外的办公室里看到我在吃沙拉，还能听到我大快朵颐的声音。
Something called Piper has enabled this self-monitoring. Part of the wave of smart-home products flooding the market, Piper is equipped with a wide-angle camera that allows users to see live video of their homes, from anywhere in the world, on their smartphones. The device also has sensors that detect motion and temperature; a microphone; a siren; and the capability of recording short videos and controlling lights and appliances remotely.
我们之所以能像这样监控自家的情况，还得拜Piper所赐。Piper是市面上充斥着的各类智能家居产品之一，它配备了广角摄像头。用户无论在何时何地，都能在智能手机上查看自己家里的实时视频。该设备还配备了动作/温度传感器、一个传声器、一个警报器，可录制较短的视频，还能远程控制照明和家中的电器设备。
Piper is advertised as a home security and automation device, and it is one of several new or forthcoming products that monitor the home. Others include Canary, a similar camera-equipped security device, and Mother, which uses attachable motion sensors called “cookies” to collect data on things like whether someone has flossed or taken a cholesterol pill (and it nags them if they haven’t). Companies like Verizon and Time Warner offer monthly subscription packages that promise to create an all-seeing, all-knowing home. Even the humble doorbell has been wired for surveillance: with Doorbot, smartphone users can see who’s at their front door and answer (or not), whether they are at home or across the globe.
Piper在广告宣传中被定位为一款家庭安监及自动控制设备，是市面上新出或即将推出的几款家居监控产品之一。其它产品还包括：Canary，一款类似的配有摄像头的安监设备；以及Mother，它采用可与之连接的动作传感器“cookies”来收集数据，监控特定的行为，比如用户有没有用牙线洁牙，有没有吃降低胆固醇的药物（如果没有，它就会喋喋不休地发出提醒）。威瑞森(Verizon)、时代华纳(Time Warner)等公司还提供包月套餐，承诺为用户打造一个无所不见、无所不知的家居环境。就连不起眼的门铃也被连线，用于监控：有了Doorbot，智能手机用户就能看到是谁站在自家门外，从而选择应不应门。无论在家里面，还是远在地球的另一端，都能做到这一点。
Surveillance inside the home isn’t new. Nanny cams have been around since the 1990s, and wealthy homeowners have long had video security systems, while laptops with built-in cameras can be hacked to act as cheap spy cams. But devices like Piper and Canary aim to democratize and even glamorize home surveillance.
家居监控并不是什么新概念。从20世纪90年代开始，保姆摄像头就已开始大行其道，富余的家庭也早已开始安装视频安监系统，而内置摄像头的笔记本被黑客入侵后，也可用作廉价的间谍摄像头。不过，像Piper、Canary这样的设备，则致力于使家居监控平民化，甚至正当化。
Technologically sophisticated, relatively inexpensive (Canary is $199; Piper starts at $239) and alluringly designed in that sleek, Apple-like way, the devices beckon to our tech-obsessed culture. Last year, the makers of Canary raised nearly $2 million during an Indiegogo campaign, a record for the crowdfunding site.
这些设备的技术精巧，价位适中（Canary售价199美元[约合人民币1220元]，Piper起价239美元[约合人民币1468元]），在外观上效仿苹果，采用流线型设计，颇为讨喜，在崇尚科技的当今时代深得人心。去年，Canary的制造商在众筹平台Indiegogo上发起了一轮筹资，募集到将近200万美元（约合人民币1226万元），创下了该站的新纪录。
Home-monitoring devices like these are appealing because they are not just smart, but unobtrusive, said Ayesha Khanna, the founder and co-director of the Hybrid Reality Institute, a research and advisory group focused on emerging technologies.
这类家居监控设备之所以广受追捧，原因不仅在于它们智能，还在于它们摆在家里不惹人注意，爱伊莎·卡纳(Ayesha Khanna)如是说。她曾创立一家着眼于新兴科技的研究及顾问机构——混合现实研究所(Hybrid Reality Institute)，也是该机构的负责人之一。
“It’s quietly humming away, taking in data,” Ms. Khanna said. “You don’t have to do anything. Something that makes your life more convenient, safer and more secure has value.”
“它们悄无声息地收集数据，”卡纳说，“你什么都不用做。只要是能让生活更方便、更安全、更有保障的东西，都是有价值的。”
But as the monitoring that is now so much a part of public life moves inside the home, one wonders how it will change family dynamics and redefine our sense of private space. As Ms. Khanna put it: “It’s important to have some cognizance of the effect on your life and how you should behave around these objects.”
不过，当公共场所无处不在的监控设备渗透进寻常百姓家时，人们不免心生疑问：监控设备将在何种程度上改变家庭关系，重塑我们对私人空间的认识？正如卡纳所说：“重要的是，我们要对监控给生活造成的影响，以及监控环境下的行为准则有一定的认识。”
RUSSELL URE, a Canadian entrepreneur who was one of the creators of Piper, said the device provides homeowners, and apartment dwellers in particular, with valuable security they previously lacked. “People who live in apartments have almost no access to security technology,” he said. “It gives you peace of mind to know what is going on at home.”
Piper的开发者之一、加拿大创业家拉塞尔·尤尔(Russel ure)表示，有了这种设备，房产所有者们——尤其是那些住在公寓的人，就能得到他们此前缺失的宝贵的安全感。“居住公寓的人几乎享受不到任何安保科技，”他说，“如果能随时知道家里的情况，你就会安下心来。”
Mr. Ure ticked off a range of worst-case scenarios — robbery, fire, a snooping landlord — that Piper can alert the user to, if not prevent. And even when all is normal, he said, there is something calming about being home, at least virtually. “So many times when you have bad days at the office, to be able to escape there, even for 10 or 20 seconds, helps.”
尤尔列举了房客可能遇到的一系列最坏的情况——遭遇抢劫、火灾、有偷窥癖的房东等等。Piper就算不能为用户杜绝这些情况，也能起到提醒警示的作用。他说，就算一切正常，它也能至少在无形中为居家生活带来一种更安心的感觉。“当你在办公室遇到不顺的时候，如果能逃离那种环境，哪怕只有10秒、20秒，也是有帮助的。”
Sitting in a cafe near Times Square last month, Mr. Ure took out his iPhone, tapped the Piper app and was soon watching his house in Ottawa. He switched on a lamp, then finger-panned and zoomed his way around the living room. A grainy figure, descending the stairs, appeared on screen: his wife. Seeing Piper in action, she scurried out of the room like a starlet caught by TMZ’s cameras.
上个月，尤尔坐在时代广场附近的一家咖啡馆里，掏出他的iPhone，点击进入Piper应用，屏幕上的画面很快就切换到了他在渥太华的家。他打开一盏灯，一边拖动画面，一边放大客厅的细节。这时，有一个由像素点构成的人影走下了楼梯，出现在屏幕中：那是他妻子。看到Piper在运行后，她急忙跑出了房间，就像被八卦网站TMZ抓拍到的年轻影星似的。
Mr. Ure chuckled. “The little light on the device is normally green, but if I’m doing live video, the light is white,” he said. “If I wanted to,” he added, “I could talk to my wife” using the device.
见此情景，尤尔咯咯地笑了。“Piper上的小灯一般是绿色的，我看实时视频的时候，灯光就会变成白色，”他说，“如果我愿意，”他接着说，用这个设备“我还可以跟妻子说话。”
So far, most of the people who have lived with this technology have been employees of the companies behind it. One woman who works for Mr. Ure told him that her household divided into pro- and anti-surveillance factions. Her mother, who lives with her, “didn’t like the camera there and would turn it away when the daughter went to work,” Mr. Ure said. “She said, ‘I don’t want you to see how many soap operas I’m watching.’ ”
目前为止，大多数在生活中使用这项技术的人，都是相关企业的职工。尤尔手下有一名女职员告诉他，她家里就监控分成了正反两派。同住的母亲“不喜欢摄像头摆在那里，她会趁女儿出门的时候把摄像头转到别的方向，”尤尔说，“她说，‘我不想让你知道我看了多少肥皂剧。’”
Other early adopters similarly remarked that when they first installed Piper, they were uncomfortably aware of its presence, though that feeling faded with time, Mr. Ure said. “You get used to it. It becomes part of your furniture.”
尤尔说，其他早期用户也反映了类似的情况。他们说，一开始安装Piper时，他们会感到不自在，只不过这种感觉久而久之就会减轻。“你会习惯它。它会变成你的一件家具。”
I couldn’t help but think about how this technology would affect children, already an exceedingly monitored group. With devices like Piper and Canary, parents can have visual confirmation that their kids arrived home safely from school. But they will also have proof of transgressions that happen at home. What will become of the parents-are-away house party, a teenage rite of passage? “Risky Business” will have to be reimagined for the Piper era.
我不由得开始思考，这项技术会给孩子们造成什么影响。如今的小孩已经是备受监控的群体了。有了Piper、Canary这样的设备，父母就能亲眼确认孩子放学后是否已经安全到家。可是同理，如果孩子们在家里偷偷做了越轨的事，也会留下“罪证”。那么，孩子们在家中举办的没有家长在场的成年礼派对，又会变成什么样呢？影片《乖仔也疯狂》(Risky Business)里的故事，在Piper大行其道的时代也得重新构思了。
Mr. Ure has three daughters, one of whom is 17 and still lives at home, and he said Piper gives him a reassuring sense of parental calm. Although his youngest daughter had a very different reaction, he admitted: “She was a bit irritated that we were keeping an eye on her. But she got used to it.”
尤尔有三个女儿，其中一个已经17岁了，依然住在家里。他说，Piper让他这个做父母的感到安心。只不过小女儿的反应截然不同，他坦言道：“她知道我们在监视她时，心里有些生气，不过后来习惯了。”
He added: “She’s quite aware that I could turn the thing on and listen to what’s going on in the house. It’s keeping her honest.”
他接着说道：“她很明白，我随时可以把设备打开，探听屋子里的动静。这让她变老实了。”
No parent wants a child smoking pot in the den with a gang of delinquents while he or she is at work. Still, is it a good thing that parents can so effortlessly watch children who are at home and unsupervised?
没有父母希望孩子趁他们工作的时候，跟一群小混混呆在乌烟瘴气的房间里抽大麻。不过，父母如此轻易地监视独自在家的孩子，究竟是不是好事呢？
Torin Monahan, an associate professor of communication studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the co-author of “SuperVision,” a book about surveillance in society, said that today’s youth are almost inured to being monitored, particularly when it comes to social media. But the justifications for doing so in this case are questionable, he said, because they are fear-based. And because of that there are developmental implications: “We don’t allow youth as much agency as perhaps they need to develop identities fully apart from their families.”
托林·莫纳汉(Torin Monahan)是北卡罗来纳大学(University of North Carolina)教堂山分校的传播学教授，曾与人合著一本关于社会监控问题的书——《监控》(SuperVision)。他表示，现在的年轻人几乎已经习惯被监控了，尤其是在社交媒体的环境下。不过他说，父母监视孩子的正当性是有待商榷的，因为其约束效力建立在让孩子恐惧的基础上；况且它还可能影响孩子们的成长：“我们可能没有给孩子留出足够的空间，让他们培养独立自主的个性。”
“Invariably people will spy on family members,” Mr. Monahan added. “I worry it could undermine trust relationships in families.”
“人们总是会监视家人，”莫纳汉还说，“我担心这会破坏家庭关系。”
ADAM SAGER, a security-industry veteran and one of the creators of Canary, disagrees with that assessment.
亚当·塞杰(Adam Sager)是安保行业的行家，也是Canary的开发者之一。他就不同意上述观点。
“The way we look at it — and we feel strongly about this — we believe Canary brings families and people closer,” Mr. Sager said.
“我们是这样认为的，Canary强化了家庭和人际纽带——我们对此也有强烈的感受。”塞杰说。
In the modern world of dispersed clans and anonymous urban living, Mr. Sager argued, the social fabric has frayed and “there’s a disconnect.” He cited as an example his older sister who has four children and lives in Los Angeles. Mr. Sager lives in New York and sees them rarely.
他表示，在当今世界，亲族分散而居，都市生活形同归隐，社会结构紧张，“人际来往被断绝了。”他举了个例子，他姐姐有四个孩子，住在洛杉矶。而塞杰住在纽约，很少能见到他们。
Canary, like Piper, is capable of live video and audio and temperature and motion detection, with additional features like an air-quality monitor and night vision. The device also allows its owner to grant “backup” access to family and friends. If permitted, Mr. Sager said, he could visit his sister’s house virtually when she is not there. “I’m across the country and I can check in to make sure her children are O.K.,” he said. “I can have this connection to my nephews, which would be impossible without this.”
Canary和Piper一样，可以接收实时音频和视频、探测温度和动作，此外，它还带有空气质量检测、夜视等其它功能。该设备还允许用户将“备用”访问权授予亲友。塞杰表示，只要姐姐同意，他就能在姐姐外出的情况下在线访问她的住处。“我可以穿越大半个国家，在线进入姐姐的住处，看看她的孩子们是否安好，”他说，“我可以跟外甥建立这样的联系，如果没有Canary，就做不到这一点。”
Of course, if he wanted to check on his nephews, Mr. Sager could also make a phone call, or even chat with them on Skype. And the difference between those kinds of connections and the one permitted by Canary is worth pointing out, said Sherry Turkle.
当然，如果想知道外甥们的情况，塞杰还可以打电话，甚至用Skype跟他们聊天。雪莉·特克尔(Sherry Turkle)说，这类联系方式与Canary所授权的方式是有所不同的，有必要指出个中区别。
Ms. Turkle, the author of “Alone Together: Why We Expect More From Technology and Less From Each Other” and a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has been critical of many forms of technology. She said Canary and similar devices are intrusive because they circumvent the conventional practice of inviting someone into your home.
特克尔是麻省理工学院的教授，曾著书《一起孤独：我们为何对科技期望更多，而对彼此期望更少》(Alone Together: Why We Expect More From Technology and Less From Each Other)。她对许多形式的科技都持有批判的态度。她表示，Canary这类设备会干扰人的生活，因为它们绕开了经过邀请才进入别人家庭的传统做法。