One night last winter, more than 120 parents filed into the black-box theater at Avenues: The World School in Chelsea, to learn about what their kids were eating. Ever since the $85 million for-profit start-up opened its doors in September, food had been a divisive issue. After the first week of classes, a group of parents sent a seven-page e-mail detailing concerns: there were not enough snacks, not enough “worldly” snacks like seaweed, zucchini bread with quinoa flour and bean quesadillas (so long as the beans came from BPA-free tin cans). Unlike other New York City private schools, with their decades of institutional wisdom, Avenues was founded on the premise that its parents were partners in building a new community. So it was ready to hear them out.
去年冬天的一个晚上，在切尔西的“全球大道学府”(Avenues: The World School)的黑箱形剧场里，120多位家长鱼贯而入，这次是为了解一下他们的孩子在学校里吃哪些食物。自从这所耗资8500万美元、营利性初创学校在9月开学以来，关于食物的问题一直众说纷纭。在开课一个星期后，一群家长发了一封长达7页的电子邮件，详细描述了他们的担忧：零食数量不够多，种类也不够“全球化”——像海苔、藜麦面粉做的西葫芦面包以及墨西豆馅酪饼（前提是装豆的锡罐中不含双酚A）这样的零食都没有。和纽约其他私立学校不同的是，有着几十年体制智慧的大道学府的创建之基是：让学生家长参与这个新团体的创建，成为学校的伙伴。因此，学校已经准备好听取家长们的意见。
In the black-box theater, Avenues’ chief administrative officer helped assure parents that their kids’ diet was sufficiently organic, local and healthful. The regional director of its food-service contractor was on hand to address any fears about carbohydrates. A doctor from Mount Sinai Hospital was ready to answer questions about allergies. A 25-page PowerPoint was presented.
在黑箱形剧场里，大道的首席行政官向家长们保证，他们孩子的饮食是非常有机的、产自本地的并且是有益健康的。学校食品服务承包商的区域主管也在场，随时准备化解家长们对碳水化合物的所有担忧。大道还请了西奈山医院(Mount Sinai Hospital)的一位医生，这位医生已经准备好回答家长有关过敏的问题。现场展示的PPT共计25页。
Everything in the black-box theater, like the Sol LeWitt line drawing on the wall, was researched and intentionally chosen, just like all the other details at the school. That was why many of the assembled parents applied in the first place. Avenues, which was founded by the media and education entrepreneur H. Christopher Whittle; Alan Greenberg, a former publisher of Esquire magazine; and the former Yale president Benno C. Schmidt Jr., was designed to be “a new school of thought,” unencumbered by legacy. It hired seasoned teachers and brought in consultants on everything from responsive classroom training to stairwell design. Mandarin or Spanish immersion begins in nursery school; each kindergartner gets an iPad in class. Students will someday have the option of semesters in São Paulo, Beijing or any of the 20 other campuses the school plans to inaugurate around the world. The cost for all this: $43,000 a year.
黑箱形剧场里的一切，如同画在墙上的索尔·勒维特（Sol Lewitt，美国艺术家——译注）线条一般，都是经过研究并且精心挑选的，学校里所有其他的细节也是如此。这就是许多聚集在这里的家长从一开始就申请该校的原因。大道创始人包括媒体和教育企业家克里斯多夫·威特尔(H. Christopher Whittle)、《君子》(Esquire)杂志前发行人艾伦·格林伯格(Alan Greenberg)以及耶鲁大学(Yale)前校长小贝诺·施密德特(Benno C. Schmidt Jr.)。学校的办学宗旨是，不为传统羁绊，成为“思维新学府”。它聘请了有丰富经验的老师，引进顾问为涵盖从快速响应的课堂培训到楼梯间的设计等所有方面问题提供咨询。学校从托儿所开始提供汉语普通话或西班牙语的沉浸式教育，上课时，每位幼儿园学生都配有iPad。将来，学生们将可以选择到圣保罗、北京或大道计划在全球开设的20个其他任何一所校园里读几个学期。所有这些的费用是，每年4.3万美元。
In September, Avenues opened with 740 students, from pre-K to ninth grade. And with those students came 740 sets of parents, many of them determined to design the perfect 21st-century school in their own high-earning, creative-class image. They were entrepreneurs and tech millionaires, talent agents and fashion designers, Katie Holmes, hedge-fund managers and artists who refuse to live above 23rd Street. And they wanted to be heard. The school subsequently formed a parents’ association, but it had no rules. So there was a debate about who got to go to the meetings and who got to vote. Bylaws had to be created, which, in Avenues’ case, meant collecting the rules and regulations of 30 other private schools so as to determine the best way to even make bylaws. “There was nothing in place,” says Jacquie Hemmerdinger, head of the standards and values committee on the Avenues Parents Association, “and they empowered 700 parents.”
去年9月，大道开学招收了740名学生，年级设置为从学前班到9年级。并且，在这些学生的身后是740对父母，他们中许多人下定决心，用自己的高收入和对创新课程的想象，设计出完美的21世纪学校。他们中有企业家和科技界百万富翁、有明星经纪人和时装设计师、有像凯蒂·赫尔姆斯(Katie Holmes)这样的明星、也有对冲基金经理和拒绝住在23街以北的艺术家们。而且他们希望别人听到自己的意见。大道学校随后设置了一个家长委员会，但该协会没有规章制度。因此，人们争论起谁能去参加会议，谁能够投票。建立章程是必须的，对大道而言，这意味着收集其他30所私立学校的规章制度，以进行借鉴甚至创造新的章程。“一切都还未成型，”大道学府家长委员会（Avenues Parents Association，简称APA）的标准和价值观委员会负责人杰奎·韩莫丁格(Jacquie Hemmerdinger)说，“因此它授权给700位家长。”
A committee was created to manage events, like galas and book fairs and bake sales, even though, as a for-profit school, Avenues couldn’t hold any events that raised money. (Did Avenues even want book fairs, some wondered? That was debated, too.) A task force was formed to investigate the safety of the neighborhood after at least one mother fretted that her child had seen the upper outlines of a homeless man’s backside en route to a playground. The complaint became known as the butt-crack e-mail. Other debates waged over the classrooms (were there enough books?); pickup (it was mayhem); identification cards (the photos were too high-resolution); and the school uniforms (was anyone enforcing the policy?). “I think we underestimated the degree of their energy and creativity,” says Gardner P. Dunnan, the former Dalton headmaster and Avenues’ academic dean and head of the Upper School. “They would take over if they could. They are New York parents.”
作为一所营利学校，大道不能举办任何筹款活动，但是学校仍成立了一个委员会，用来管理像节日活动、书展和面包或蛋糕售卖这样的活动。（一些人怀疑大道是否真的想要书展活动？这一点也经过了讨论。）当至少一名母亲因她的孩子曾在去操场的路上看到一个无家可归的人裸露着屁股上半部分而感到焦躁时，学校随即成立了一个特别小组来调查周边的安全。后来大家都开始知道这封“光屁股”投诉邮件。其他的争论还包括教室（是否有足够的书本？），从学校接孩子（秩序太乱了），身份识别卡（照片的像素太高）以及学校校服（是否有人强制执行该政策？）“我觉得我们低估了他们的精力和创造力，”道尔顿学院(Dalton)前校长、现任大道教务长及中学部主任的加德纳·P·敦南(Gardner P. Dunnan)说。“只要有任何可以参与的事，他们就会进行接管。他们可是纽约的家长。”
And then there was the food committee. After the PowerPoint presentation concluded in the black-box theater, the questions started flying: Why so much bread? What was the policy on genetically modified organisms? Why no sushi? Nancy Schulman, the head of Avenues’ Early Learning Center, who was sitting among the parents that night, has a theory about the wealthy parents of young children. Privileged parents want to control everything in their kids’ lives. When the kids go to school, the parents can’t control what happens for eight long hours; hence, food. She dutifully worked with parents to implement many of their ideas, including more education about nutrition, and more snack time.
然后，大道还有食物委员会。在黑箱形剧场的PPT演示结束之后，各种问题满天飞：为什么有这么多面包？学校对转基因生物的政策是怎样的？为什么没有寿司？那天晚上坐在家长中间的大道早教中心主任南希·舒尔曼(Nancy Schulman)有一套关于小孩子有钱父母的理论。有钱有势的父母们想要控制孩子生活中的一切。当孩子们去学校时，家长们将在整整8个小时里无法控制事情的发生，因此，他们要插手去管理学校的食物。她尽职地和家长们一起实施他们的许多想法，包括增加营养学的教育以及增加吃零食的时间。
Parenting in a pathologically competitive, information-saturated city can make anyone crazy, even those parents lucky enough to be worried about fennel burgers in school lunches. And while Avenues offers its students every imaginable educational benefit — a 9-to-1 student-to-teacher ratio, a Harvard-designed “World Course” — it has also tapped into an even deeper, more complicated parental anxiety: the anxiety of wanting their kids to have every advantage, but ensuring that all those advantages don’t turn them into privileged jerks.
在一个充满近乎病态的竞争、信息饱和的城市里，教育子女能让所有人疯狂，即使有的幸运父母只需要担心学校午餐里的茴香汉堡，也不能幸免。而且，尽管大道学府为学生们提供了所有能想到的教育福利——1：9的师生比例，哈佛设计的“世界化课程”，但它也给父母带来了更深、更复杂的焦虑：既想让他们的孩子拥有所有的优势，但同时又要确保这些优势不会把孩子们变成骄横的混蛋。
As Manhattan, and particularly downtown, is transformed by a staggering infusion of wealth, there is a growing market for creating emotionally intelligent future global leaders who, as a result of their emotional intelligence, have a little humility. In fact, when the nearby Grace Church School was researching whether to start its own high school, it asked top college-admission officers what was lacking in New York City applicants. The answers coalesced around the idea of values, civic engagement, inclusiveness and diversity — in a word, humility.
随着曼哈顿（尤其是下城）在惊人的财富注入下经历转变，在这里，培养高情商的未来全球领袖的市场不断增长，由于他们的情商高，所以难有些许谦逊的品格。事实上，当附近的格蕾斯教会学校(Grace Church School)在研究是否应该开设自己的高中时，它向顶尖大学的招生人员咨询来自纽约市的申请者身上最欠缺的是什么。答案大多围绕价值观、公民参与、包容与多样性——简言之，谦逊品格。
And so Avenues students may run to their “Empire State of Mind: Thinking About Jay-Z in a New Way” “mini-mester” while passing a Chuck Close self portrait, but they do so with the intent of being “humble about their gifts and generous of spirit,” as the school’s mission statement puts it. “We wanted a school that was innovative and wouldn’t force our kids into any particular mold,” says Sheree Carter-Galvan, an Avenues parent and a general counsel at Yale University. Or, as Ella Kim, mother of a 4-year old, explains, Avenues took the anxiety of a New York parent — albeit of a certain type — “and designed a school around that.”
因此，大道的学生可能在经过查克·克洛斯(Chuck Close)的自画像时，奔向他们“思维的帝国州：从新的角度看待说唱歌手Jay-Z”和“迷你学期”。但他们这么做的目的，如学校的宗旨所说的那样，是成为“对自己的天赋谦虚并且有慷慨的精神”的人。“我们想要一所创新的学校，它不会强迫孩子去成为某种特定的人，”大道的一位家长谢瑞·卡特-加尔文(Sheree Carter-Galvan)说，他同时也是耶鲁大学的总法律顾问。或者，像一位4岁小孩的母亲艾拉·金姆(Ella Kim)解释的那样，大道领会了纽约家长们的焦虑（虽然只是一定类型的焦虑），“然后据此设计了一所学校。”
Last winter, a group of Avenues 4-year-olds ventured out to the 532 Gallery Thomas Jaeckel in Chelsea to view the work of John A. Parks, an English painter, who fingerpainted his childhood memories. Schulman thought it segued seamlessly with a unit they were doing on abstract art, which included studies of Wassily Kandinsky and Paul Klee. Schulman, who always seems to be brimming with excitement, explained how the subject matter and the field trip were perfect for the immersion classes. “You can use the vocabulary in both languages,” she said, to learn about the art.
去年冬天，大道学府一群4岁的孩子们到学校外面去探险，他们去了切尔西的托马斯·杰克尔532画廊(532 Gallery Thomas Jaeckel)，参观英国画家约翰·帕克斯(John A. Parks)的作品，这位画家用手指作画，描绘了他的童年记忆。舒尔曼认为，这次行程和他们正在学习的抽象艺术的一个单元是一次无缝连接，这个单元里包括对瓦西里·康定斯基(Wassily Kandisky)和保罗·克利(Paul Klee)的研究。舒尔曼，这位似乎永远洋溢着兴奋的老师，解释了为什么该主题和实地参观是沉浸式课堂的完美运用。“你可以使用两种语言的词汇，”去学习艺术，她说。
Whether it’s snack time or a field trip to a Chelsea gallery, everything at Avenues feels designed to assuage parental anxiety. The school has distributed a handout to parents that explains what kids are learning when they are doing various things: For instance, when they are making bridges out of blocks, they are really learning to build with shapes (and honing math skills); planning ahead (which helps with study skills); and recreating structures (thereby working on geography skills). On the first day of school, Topher Collier, one of New York’s top child psychologists and head of Avenues’ student success team, gave his advisees a package with 21 items and a printout that detailed the meaning of each. It included a star streamer ball. (“With proper goal setting, effort, monitoring and reflection, your goals are in reach.”) There was also a mini-parachute. (“Make mistakes . . . you’ve got a safety net. Sometimes our greatest achievements can come from failure.”)
无论是零食时间还是去切尔西画廊的实地参观，大道的一切设计都让人觉得是为了缓和家长们的焦虑。学校已经向家长分发了一份材料，解释了当孩子们在做不同事情的时候，他们在学习什么。例如：当他们用积木搭桥的时候，他们其实是在学习怎样搭建不同的形状（以及训练数学技能）；提前计划（这能帮助提高学习技能）；还有重建结构（因此对地理技能有用）。第一天上学的时候，纽约最出色的儿童心理学家之一兼大道学生成功团队主任托弗·科里尔(Topher Collier)向找他咨询建议的人提供了一个包括21条内容的方案和打印资料，资料详细说明了每个项目的含意。其中包括一个星星彩带球。（“在球上设置恰当的目标、努力、监督和反思，告诉孩子你的目标并非遥不可及。”还有一个迷你降落伞。（“告诉孩子不要害怕犯错误……我们给你一个安全网。有时候我们最大的成就来源于失败。”）
What parent wouldn’t want this kind of attention? Ella Kim, a merchandising consultant for Coach, organizes a kind of salon for moms to discuss everything from neuroscience to technology to bilingualism in child-rearing. Kim, a voracious researcher, invited Ph.D.’s in child development to run the group so that it had a scientific basis and not just anecdotal musings. Petite, with long black hair, Kim is sharp and warm and aware of the hazards of overthinking how to be a good parent. “Our generation of parents, we are self-realized in that we know it’s not just about achievement,” she said. “The end of just achievement is a lot of disappointment. Our kids will find their excellence and their contentment in finding themselves.”
哪个家长不想要得到这样的关注？蔻驰(Coach)的推销顾问艾拉·金姆(Ella Kim)为妈妈们组织一种沙龙，讨论养育子女涉及的从神经系统科学到双语教育技术的一切内容。金是一位如饥似渴的研究者，她邀请了儿童发展博士来运营这个团体，为它提供科学基础而不仅仅是坊间传言。娇小的金姆留着长长的黑发，她不仅热情犀利，更清楚过度思考怎样成为好家长会带来的危害。“我们这一代的父母，我们实现了自我，并且在这一过程中明白了实现不仅仅是取得成就，”她说。“只注重成就的结果是遭遇许多的失望。我们的孩子们，将在寻找自我的过程中，发现自己的优势并获得满足。”
Kim’s husband, Charlie, who was born in Hawaii and raised in Nigeria, talked to the Avenues administration and ACE — Avenues Community Engagement — about what he learned in running his own technology company, Next Jump. When he and his co-founder started the company, while he was still in college, they hired the smartest, most motivated engineers they could find. Ultimately they fired two-thirds of them and mined their data to figure out the common thread of weakness. It was arrogance, he said. The success stories, Kim discovered, all pointed to humility. “Not meekness,” he said, “but a sense of failing fast and using it to grow.” The Kims said they chose Avenues because of the mission statement’s phrase about humility. “How do you build humility as early as possible?” Charlie wondered aloud.
金姆的丈夫查理(Charlie)出生于夏威夷，在尼日利亚长大，他和大道行政处和大道社区参与部门（Avenues Community Engagement，简称ACE）谈论他在运营自己的科技公司Next Jump过程中获得的体会。当他还在读大学时，他和联席创始人创立了这家公司，他们聘请了能找到的最聪明、最有积极性的工程师。最后，他们解雇了三分之二。为了发现被辞退者的共同弱点，他们分析了有关那些工程师的数据。他说，他们共同的缺点是自大。金姆发现，成功的故事都离不开谦逊的品格。“谦逊不是顺从，”他说，“而是一种让失败迅速成为过去，并且能借助失败获得成长的意识。”金姆一家说他们之所以选择大道学府，是因为它的宗旨声明中有关于谦逊的内容。“怎样才能够尽早培养出谦逊的品格？”查里大声说出这一疑惑。
The better question might be: How do you build humility at a school that costs $43,000 a year? Where students are tended to by a 10-person success team and are expected to find a passion — any passion — around which expertise, confidence and college admission may come? As the Kims spoke in their West Village town house, their son, Jackson, emerged in checkered pajamas from playing a “Star Wars” game on a Mac and broke into a number of songs in Mandarin, including “Head, Shoulders, Knees and Toes.” His aquarium was buzzing in the background, and his scooters, strollers and bikes filled up the entryway. The Kims may be concerned with ensuring that Jackson is humble, but they are also acutely aware of the advantages that speaking Mandarin will give him. “He will have such a leg up compared to his peers,” Ella said. “He’ll be so marketable coming out of college with that language fluency. There’s enough competition domestically!”
更恰当的问题可能是：在一个每年收费4.3万美元的学校里，你怎样培养出谦逊的学生？在这个由10人组成的成功团队指导下，学生要向哪方面发展，从哪里找到热情？这可以是任何一种热情，围绕它，学生能够确定自己的专业知识，收获自信，得到大学录取。当金姆夫妇在他们纽约西村的家里说话时，他们的儿子杰克逊(Jackson)穿着方格子睡衣出现了，他在Mac上玩着一款“星球大战”(Star Wars)的游戏，一些中文歌闯入耳畔，包括“脑袋、肩膀、膝、脚趾”这首儿歌。他的水族箱在背景里嗡嗡作响，玄关堆放着他的踏板车、折叠车和自行车。金姆夫妇可能会对确保杰克逊的谦逊品格有所担心，但他们也清醒地明白说普通话将给他带来的优势。“他将比同龄人有如此突出的优势，”艾拉说。“从大学毕业后，能流利说中文的优势将大大拓宽他的职业道路。国内的竞争已经够激烈了！”
Avenues has more than a few contradictions to overcome in its quest to create humble and resilient leaders. The school professes to see past the American reverence for top-flight Northeastern colleges, yet it extols the degrees of its administrators, many of which are from those schools. And humility is not exactly evident at a drop-off that one parent described as a “Bergdorf Goodman buyers’ office.” Another noted that accepting Suri Cruise — arguably the most famous child in the world — seemed at odds with the rhetoric of the school. “I’m sure she’s a lovely child, but you aren’t holding up your end of the bargain about what this school should be,” she said.
在追求培养谦逊且坚忍不拔的领导人过程中，大道还有不少矛盾要克服。虽然学校声称他们的视野超越了美国人尊敬的一流东北部大学，但它仍对学校管理者的学位赞不绝口，而他们中许多人都来自于东北部的那些学校。而且在送货处，一位家长描述的“波道夫·古德曼(Bergdorf Goodman)买手办公室”，谦逊这一态度并不是特别明显。另一个值得注意的是接收苏瑞·克鲁斯(Suri Cruise)这位几乎是全球最出名的小孩，这和学校的说法似乎也不一致。“我肯定她是个可爱的孩子，但学校没有信守自己关于它应该是什么样子的诺言，”她说。
Many parents defend the school’s mission by pointing to its $3 million in scholarships. Others suggest that its for-profit nature, which forbids donations, encourages families to contribute in more meaningful ways. “Avenues needs you as a parent,” says Tanya Tohill-Farber, vice president of the Avenues Parent Association. “They do not need you to fund-raise to exist.” On the suggestion of one parent, Whittle says, the school is considering inviting a handful of start-up companies and organizations to take up residence. Their success, or failure, would reinforce the lesson about taking risks.
许多家长用学校300万美元的奖学金为它的宗旨辩护。其他人表示，由于学校是以营利为目的的，这使得它不能接受捐赠，也鼓励了家长以更多有意义的方式为学校做贡献。“大道学府需要家长们扮演好父母的角色，”大道学府家长委员会副主席塔尼亚·托西尔·法伯(Tanya Tohill-Farber)说。“家长们在学校的存在不需要通过筹集资金来体现。”威特尔说，在一名家长的建议下，学校正在考虑邀请少数初创公司和机构进驻。他们的成功或失败将加深有关承担风险的经验和教训。
After all, risk-taking is important to Avenues, a giant start-up itself. Avenues World Holdings Inc. raised $85 million through at least two private-equity firms (they are about to close another round of financing), and investors, including pension funds, typically expect returns of 15 to 30 percent on investments. Enrollment will grow to 1,100 students next year, Whittle says, with applications up 10 to 15 percent over last year. (The school, which goes up to 9th grade now, will expand to 12th grade in 2015-16.) Alan Greenberg, Avenues’ president, has said repeatedly that the school could have enrolled with the full 1,635 seats filled but chose to admit students more selectively. He also sent letters to families who declined the school’s offer of admission, explaining to them how they were making a huge mistake.
毕竟，作为初创机构，承担风险对大道自身来说也很重要。大道全球控股公司(Avenues World Holdings Inc.)通过至少两个私募股权公司（他们将完成另一轮的融资）筹集了8500万美元，并且，包括养老基金在内的投资者大多期望15%至30%的投资收益率。威特尔说，明年的招生规模将扩大至1100名学生，申请量将比去年增长10%至15%。（大道目前最高的是9年级，将在2015-2016学年延伸到12年级。）大道的校长艾伦·格林伯格不止一次地说过，学校能最多招1635名学生，但他们要接收学生时要更挑剔。他还写信给拒绝学校录取的家庭，向他们解释这是一个多大的错误。
But for many among a new generation of wealthy New York parents without legacy roots at Horace Mann or Brearley, Avenues, without any legacy of its own, was a welcome option. Trinity accepted only 3.6 percent of nonlegacy, nonsibling kindergarten applicants for entry this fall. (By comparison, freshman acceptance into Harvard was 5.8 percent.) Jacquie Hemmerdinger, from the A.P.A., recalls trying to get her 4-year old twin daughters into Dalton for kindergarten. When they went to the parent interview, the admissions director, Elisabeth (Babby) Krents, held up the essay Hemmerdinger had written about her girls, covered in red ink. Who wrote this? Krents asked. “I got all hot and sweaty,” Hemmerdinger says. “I thought it was a bunch of typos.” Krents then told her that it was the best essay she had read that admissions season. (“I teared up,” Hemmerdinger remembers.) Her girls scored well on the kindergarten entrance exam, and Krents told her that they also fit the school’s need for diversity. She and her husband, a real estate developer, lived in a sprawling Georgian revival house on a tree-lined street that happens to be in Queens. Either way, they never got into Dalton. Avenues was happy to take them.
但是对纽约的许多新一代新贵家长而言，他们的家庭和霍瑞斯曼学校(Horace Mann)或布里尔利学校(Brearley)没什么渊源，没有任何历史的大道学府是一个颇受欢迎的选择。三一学校(Trinity)的幼儿园，今年秋季学期只接收3.6%与学校没有渊源、也没有兄弟姐妹已经入园的申请者。（相比之下，哈佛大学的新生录取率尚有5.8%。）APA的杰奎·韩莫丁格(Jacquie Hemmerdinger)回忆了想把她4岁大的双胞胎女儿们送进道尔顿(Dalton)幼儿园的过程。当他们去参加家长面谈时，招生主任伊丽莎白·芭比·克伦茨(Elisabeth [Babby] Krents)举起韩莫丁格写的关于她孩子们的文章，上面有红墨水做的记号。这篇文章是谁写的？克伦茨问。“我紧张得出汗，”韩莫丁格说。“我以为有许多错别字。”接着克伦茨跟她说，那是她在整个招生季读到的最好的文章。（“我泪流满面，”韩莫丁格回忆道。）她的孩子们在幼儿园入学考试中考得很好，克伦茨说她们也满足了学校多样性的需求。她和她从事房地产开发的丈夫住在乔治亚(Georgian)时期复兴式风格的一个硕大房子里，街两旁树木林立，可是位置却在皇后区。无论如何，孩子们还是没有被道尔顿录取，但大道很乐意接收他们。
Avenues’ 215,000-square-foot building, a former grocery wholesale warehouse, is a monument to its ideas about doing things differently. Many Manhattan private schools feel like labyrinthine rabbit warrens; here light streams into the classrooms and the cafeteria and through its stairwells and envelops the gym, where the motto “You Miss 100 Percent of the Shots You Never Take” is emblazoned on the wall. Nearing the end of the first year, teachers and administrators still regularly work 14-hour days in teams, making improvements for next September: immersion in the lower school is being tweaked so that students will learn more math in English, more social-studies classes will be offered in other languages and so on.
大道学府21.5万平方英尺（合近2万平方米）的建筑座落在以前的一个杂货批发仓库，是其另辟蹊径做事理念的典范。许多曼哈顿的私立学校感觉像是地形复杂的养兔场，在这里，光线流向教室和咖啡厅，透过楼梯间将体育馆围绕起来。在体育馆的墙上，刻着“你没有抓住的机会将永远失去”的座右铭。在第一年即将结束时，老师和管理员仍然按惯例在小组内做着每天14小时的工作，改善明年9月份的课程：在低年级开足马力进行沉浸式教育，这样学生能用英语学更多的数学知识，其他语言的教学中要增加社会研究课程等。
But for all of its intentions, Avenues is also starting to feel like a lot of other New York City private schools. It is almost impossible to get into kindergarten — the school received 350 applications for 25 kindergarten slots — and many parents who applied thinking it was a “safety” school were shocked to be rejected. The upper school is considering offering French, a decidedly un-21st-century language, next year because of demand. There are now committees through which parents can formally vent, and 22 new positions being added to the A.P.A. Middle-school students will have a shorter school day next year; despite Avenues’ hopes that students would not overschedule themselves, many were falling asleep on their way to after-school activities. Parent-teacher conferences that included kids may revert to the old format of just parents and teachers.
但是，尽管学校有这些愿景，人们也同样开始觉得大道和纽约许多其他私立学校很相似了。要想进它的幼儿园几乎不可能：学校的25个幼儿班名额收到了350份申请，而许多申请的家长把它视为一所“保底”学校，遭到拒绝后十分震惊。由于需求量大，高年级班正在考虑，从明年起教授法语这门明显不是21世纪的主流语言。目前学校已经设有反馈委员会，家长可以通过它们正式提出意见，而且APA也将增加22个新职位。明年中学生每天的在校时间将会缩短；虽然大道希望学生们的任务不要太繁重，但仍有许多人在去课后活动的路上睡着了。带孩子参与的家长会可能仍要回归到以前只有家长和老师的模式。
Maybe there is something to those schools with 100 years of tradition. The staid staples that many Avenues’ parents initially debated — galas, bake sales, book fairs — are now materializing, by parent demand. In late April, a founding-families gala took place at Chelsea Piers. The previous week, the school was buzzing at its first ever book fair. Sam Talbot from “Top Chef” was doing a presentation on the fifth floor, while preschoolers in the black-box theater were making bookmarks with stamps of the Empire State Building and the Statue of Liberty. Face painting and glitter-tattoo stations were packed. A balloon woman was making swords and flowers, but also elaborate wings, pink flamingos and, for one boy, a bodysuit that was built around him. Schulman — ever attentive to the parents — was exuberant. She knew that a book fair, with Avenues panache, would comfort anxious parents. “I knew that books were important and that you turn it into a fun family day,” Schulman said, beaming. “This is the glue.”
也许那些百年老校的确有些过人之处。大道许多家长一开始争论的保守节目——节日活动、面包或糕饼售卖活动和书展——现在应家长的要求开始具体实施了。4月末，一个创始人家庭活动在切尔西码头举行。前一周，学校热热闹闹地办了首届书展。“顶级厨师”(Top Chef)的山姆·塔尔博特(Sam Talbot)在五楼做演讲，而黑箱形剧场里学龄前的孩子们用帝国大厦和自由女神像的邮票做书签。学校布满了人脸画像和幻彩纹身站。一个气球女士用气球做成剑和花，还有复杂的翅膀、粉红色的火烈鸟，她还给一个男孩做了件紧身气球衣贴在身上。对家长特别留心的舒尔曼活力四射。她知道由大道举办书展能缓解家长的焦虑。“我知道书籍很重要，你们把它变成了愉快的家庭日，”舒尔曼喜气洋洋地说。“这就是家庭的粘合剂。”