So, another BRIC hits the wall. Actually, I’ve never much liked the whole “BRIC” — Brazil, Russia, India, and China — concept: Russia, which is basically a petro-economy, doesn’t belong there at all, and there are large differences among the other three. Still, it’s hard to deny that India, Brazil, and a number of other countries are now experiencing similar problems. And those shared problems define the economic crisis du jour.
如今，又一块“金砖”(BRIC)撞上了南墙。其实，我从来就不是很喜欢整个“金砖四国”（巴西、俄罗斯、印度和中国）的概念：俄罗斯基本是个以石油为基础的经济体，它与这个集团根本格格不入。其他三国之间也存在显著差异。然而，我们很难否认印度、巴西，以及许多其他国家正在经历相似的问题。而这些相似的问题又定义了当前的经济危机。
What’s going on? It’s a variant on the same old story: investors loved these economies not wisely but too well, and have now turned on the objects of their former affection. A couple years back, Western investors — discouraged by low returns both in the United States and in the noncrisis nations of Europe — began pouring large sums into emerging markets. Now they’ve reversed course. As a result, India’s rupee and Brazil’s real are plunging, along with Indonesia’s rupiah, the South African rand, the Turkish lira, and more.
到底发生了什么？这只是那个老掉牙的故事的变体：投资者对这些经济体爱得不够明智，也爱得太深，而他们现在却对自己从前的挚爱发动了袭击。几年前，西方投资者发觉美国和尚未发生危机的欧洲国家投资回报率太低，因而挫伤了积极性，开始向新兴市场注入大量资金。现在，他们倒转了资金流动的方向。结果，印度卢比和巴西雷亚尔暴跌，同时贬值的还有印度尼西亚盾、南非兰特和土耳其里拉等。
Does this reversal of fortune pose a major threat to the world economy? I don’t think so (he said with his fingers crossed behind his back). It’s true that investor loss of confidence and the resulting currency plunges caused severe economic crises in much of Asia back in 1997-98. But the crucial point back then was that, in the crisis countries, many businesses had large debts in dollars, so that falling currencies effectively caused their debts to soar, creating widespread financial distress. That problem isn’t completely absent this time around, but it looks much less serious.
这种财富逆转的现象会对世界经济造成重大威胁吗？我并不这么认为（他说这句话的时候，心里也在偷偷祈求好运）。的确，由于投资者丧失信心以及随之而来的货币贬值，亚洲大部分地区都在1997年至1998年出现了严重的经济危机。但当时至关重要的问题是，在危机国家中，很多企业都有着巨额的美元债务，所以货币贬值促使它们的债务大幅度增加，从而造成了广泛的财务困境。这个问题当前并非完全不存在，但看起来远没有当时那么严重。
In fact, count me among those who believe that the biggest threat right now is that policy in emerging markets will overreact — that their central banks will raise interest rates sharply in an attempt to prop up their currencies, which isn’t what they or the rest of the world need right now.
实际上，我和有些人一样认为目前最大的威胁就是，新兴市场将会在政策方面反应过度——为了支撑本国货币，央行大幅提高利率。但这并不是这些国家或世界其他国家目前需要的。
Still, even if the news from India and elsewhere isn’t apocalyptic, it’s not the kind of thing you want to hear when the world’s wealthier economies, while doing a bit better than they were a few months ago, are still deeply depressed and struggling to recover. And this latest financial turmoil raises a broader question: Why have we been having so many bubbles?
此外，即便不能说来自印度和其他国家的消息具有灾难性，你也绝不会想听到这样的消息。这是因为，世界上较富的经济体尽管目前表现略好于几个月前，但却仍处于严重萧条状态，复苏仍然艰难。最近的金融危机提出了一个更宏大的问题：为什么我们会一直有这么多泡沫？
For it’s now clear that the flood of money into emerging markets — which briefly drove Brazil’s currency up by almost 40 percent, a rise that has now been completely reversed — was yet another in the long list of financial bubbles over the past generation. There was the housing bubble, of course. But before that there was the dot-com bubble; before that the Asian bubble of the mid-1990s; before that the commercial real estate bubble of the 1980s. That last bubble, by the way, imposed a huge cost on taxpayers, who had to bail out failed savings-and-loan institutions.
现在看来，涌入新兴市场的大量资金（资金流入曾在短期内促使巴西货币升值近40%，目前这种升值状况已被完全扭转）明显只是过去30年中一长串金融泡沫中的另外一个。我们曾经有过房地产泡沫，但是此前还有网络泡沫，网络泡沫之前还有20世纪90年代中期的亚洲经济泡沫，以及20世纪80年代的商业地产泡沫。顺便提一下，最后一个泡沫中，纳税人不得不救援失败的储蓄贷款机构，因而承担了巨大的代价。
The thing is, it wasn’t always thus. The ’50s, the ’60s, even the troubled ’70s, weren’t nearly as bubble-prone. So what changed?
实际上，事情并不总是这样的。在50年代、60年代，甚至经济糟糕的70年代，都没有那么容易出现泡沫。那么，是什么改变了呢？
One popular answer involves blaming the Federal Reserve — the loose-money policies of Ben Bernanke and, before him, Alan Greenspan. And it’s certainly true that for the past few years the Fed has tried hard to push down interest rates, both through conventional policies and through unconventional measures like buying long-term bonds. The resulting low rates certainly helped send investors looking for other places to put their money, including emerging markets.
一个流行的答案是归咎于美联储(Federal Reserve)——本·伯南克(Ben Bernanke)和他的前任艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)推行的宽松货币政策。有一点肯定是事实，过去几年里美联储极力地压低利率，既通过常规的政策，也通过非常规的举措，如购入长期国债。因此造成的低利率，肯定促使投资者把自己的钱放在其他地方，包括新兴市场。
But the Fed was only doing its job. It’s supposed to push interest rates down when the economy is depressed and inflation is low. And what about the series of earlier bubbles, which, at this point, reach back a generation?
可美联储只是在履行自己的职责。在经济增长受到抑制、通胀水平低时，它本来就会压低利率。那么在这之前的一系列泡沫呢？到现在这些泡沫已经延续了30年时间。
I know that there are some people who believe that the Fed has been keeping interest rates too low, and printing too much money, all along. But interest rates in the ’80s and ’90s were actually high by historical standards, and even during the housing bubble they were within historical norms. Besides, isn’t the sign of excessive money printing supposed to be rising inflation? We’ve had a whole generation of successive bubbles — and inflation is lower than it was at the beginning.
我知道有些人认为美联储一直以来把利率压得太低了，印的钱也太多了。然而按照历史标准，80年代和90年代的利率实际上很高，即使在房地产泡沫期间，利率也处在历史上的常规范围内。此外，如果印的钱太多，表现出的迹象不应该是通胀走高吗？我们在整整30年的时间里，经历了一系列泡沫，可是通胀却低于最初的水平。
O.K., the other obvious culprit is financial deregulation — not just in the United States but around the world, and including the removal of most controls on the international movement of capital. Banks gone wild were at the heart of the commercial real estate bubble of the 1980s and the housing bubble that burst in 2007. Cross-border flows of hot money were at the heart of the Asian crisis of 1997-98 and the crisis now erupting in emerging markets — and were central to the ongoing crisis in Europe, too.
那么，另一个显而易见的元凶是金融监管的放松，不仅美国如此，世界各地都是如此，监管放松还包括大多数国际资本流动限制的解除。20世纪80年代的商业地产泡沫，以及2007年破裂的房地产泡沫，其核心原因都是银行的肆无忌惮。1997年至1998年的亚洲金融危机，以及这场在新兴市场国家爆发的危机，其核心原因是热钱的跨境流动，它也是欧洲当前危机的一个关键因素。
In short, the main lesson of this age of bubbles — a lesson that India, Brazil, and others are learning once again — is that when the financial industry is set loose to do its thing, it lurches from crisis to crisis.
简而言之，这个泡沫时代的主要教训是，如果金融产业不受束缚地任意行事，就会一次又一次陷入危机。现在印度、巴西，以及其他一些国家正在重新学习这个教训。