KINGSTON, Jamaica — The scent of coconut oil and fiery jerk spice blows through kitchens across this green island, but as the country’s food imports have become a billion-dollar threat to finances and health, Jamaica has taken on a bold new strategy: make farming patriotic and ubiquitous, behind homes, hospitals, schools, even prisons.
牙买加金斯敦——椰子油和浓烈的烟熏香料的味道传遍了这座绿色岛国的厨房，然而随着粮食进口规模达到10亿美元，从而威胁到经济与国民健康，牙买加采取了一个大胆的新策略：让务农变成一种爱国行为，住宅、医院、学校，乃至监狱的后院，无处不在。
Across the Caribbean, food imports have become a budget-busting problem, prompting one of the world’s most fertile regions to reclaim its agricultural past. But instead of turning to big agribusinesses, officials are recruiting everyone they can to combat the cost of imports, which have roughly doubled in price over the past decade. In Jamaica, Haiti, the Bahamas and elsewhere, local farm-to-table production is not a restaurant sales pitch; it is a government motto.
在加勒比地区，粮食进口已成为一个让预算失控的大问题，驱使这个世界上土地最肥沃的地区之一重拾务农的旧业。然而，官方并没有求助于大型农业综合企业，而是尽其所能地动员每一个人来应对过去10年间大致翻番的进口成本。在牙买加、海地、巴哈马等国，在当地进行“从农场到餐桌”的生产已不再是一句餐馆广告语，而是政府的座右铭。
“We’re in a food crisis,” said Hilson Baptiste, the agriculture minister of Antigua and Barbuda. “Every country is concerned about it. How can we produce our own? How can we feed our own?”
“我们正处于一场粮食危机中，”安提瓜和巴布达的农业部长希尔森·巴普蒂斯特(Hilson Baptiste)说。“每个国家都为此担忧。如何生产我们自己的粮食？如何养活我们自己？”
In a region where farming is still often seen as a reminder of plantations and slavery, the challenge runs deep, yet at regional meetings for years, Caribbean officials have emphasized that “food security,” primarily availability and access, is a top priority. Many countries are now responding, branding foreign food like meats and high-calorie snacks a threat, and locally grown food responsible and smart.
在加勒比地区，农业仍被视为旧时种植园和奴隶制的象征，这一行动面临的挑战可谓根深蒂固。然而多年来，在地区性会议中，各国官员一直在强调，“粮食保障”——主要是指粮食供应量和获取粮食的难易程度——是重中之重。目前，许多国家都在采取应对措施，把诸如肉类和高热量零食之类的外国食品宣传为一种威胁，同时宣称在本地种植农作物既负责又明智。
Jamaica started earlier than most. A decade ago, the government unveiled a national food security campaign with the slogan “grow what we eat, eat what we grow.” Grocery stores now identify local produce with large stickers and prominent displays.
牙买加的行动启动得比大多数国家都早。10年前，政府开展了一项全国粮食保障运动，口号是“种我所食、食我所种”。现如今，食品店都给本地农产品贴上大标签并将其摆放在显著位置。
Members of rival political parties have also been mostly unified in support of expanding agriculture by experimental means; Jamaica is now one of several countries that have given out thousands of seed kits to encourage backyard farming.
反对党成员往往一致支持扩大农业生产的尝试之举；包括牙买加在内的数个国家如今已发放了数千袋种子，以鼓励民众在后院务农。
Schools are heavily involved in the effort: 400 in Jamaica now feature gardens maintained by students and teachers. In Antigua and Barbuda, students are now sent out regularly on planting missions, adding thousands of avocado, orange, breadfruit and mango trees to the islands, but in Jamaica, gardening and cooking are often part of every school day.
学校也积极参与这种努力：现有400所牙买加学校拥有学生和教师打理的种植园。在安提瓜和巴布达，学生们被定期派出去参加种植活动，为这个岛国增添了数以千计的鳄梨树、橙树、面包果树和芒果树；而在牙买加，种植和烹饪是每个教学日的常规组成部分。
Jamaica has always farmed — sugar and bananas, mostly — and imports have been part of the mix since at least the colonial era because grains are hard to grow in the region. But the balance tipped more significantly toward foreign food in the 1990s. From 1991 to 2001, Jamaica’s total food and beverage imports increased by two-and-a-half times, to $503 million before doubling after that.
牙买加拥有农业传统，主要是种植糖类作物和香蕉，而食品进口至少从殖民时期起就一直是粮食供应的组成部分，原因是该地区难以种植谷物。但到20世纪90年代，天平进一步大幅倒向外国食品。1991年到2001年间，牙买加的食品与饮料进口总量增长了2.5倍，达到5.03亿美元（约合31亿元人民币），随后又翻了一番。
Much of the initial growth coincided with agriculture surpluses around the world and changing tastes, as more Jamaicans favored meat and processed food. Many of the country’s 200,000 farmers cut production in the ’90s and early 2000s because they found it hard to compete.
最初的大部分增长正好发生在全球农产品过剩及口味变化之际，彼时越来越多的牙买加人青睐肉类和加工食品。该国20万名农场主中，有不少在20世纪90年代和本世纪初削减了产量，因为他们发现难以赢得竞争。
Then came the food shortages of 2008. Storms in the Caribbean and drought elsewhere drove food prices to new heights. Jamaica found that exporting countries were holding on to food for their own populations.
随后发生了2008年的粮食短缺。加勒比地区的风暴和其他地方的干旱把食品价格推至新高。牙买加发现，出口国都在控制食品出口以供应本国人口。
With concerns that climate change will make future bad years even worse, an intensified regional focus on “food security” followed. Results have varied.
在气候变化将令未来年景变得更糟的担忧下，加勒比地区对于“粮食保障”的关注更加强烈。结果却良莠不齐。
Mr. Baptiste said that Antigua and Barbuda was on track to produce half its food this year, up from only 20 percent in 2009, but most of the Caribbean has seen less astounding improvement. Jamaica’s progress, even after so many years, is subtle. Its food import bill has held steady around a billion dollars a year and though some production has grown — 79 percent of the country’s potato consumption now comes from Jamaican sources — there are still challenges of taste. “We import a lot of French fries,” said the country’s agriculture minister, Roger Clarke.
巴普蒂斯特称，安提瓜和巴布达有望在今年实现一半粮食自给，而2009年时的自给率仅为20%，但大多数加勒比国家并未出现如此惊人的进步。即便经过这么多年，牙买加的进步也不甚明显。该国食品进口额稳定在每年10亿美元左右，尽管一些农作物产量有所增长，例如该国消耗的79%马铃薯由本国供应，但口味上的挑战仍然存在。“我们大量进口炸薯条，”该国农业部长罗杰·克拉克(Roger Clarke)称。
The transformation that Caribbean officials seek faces other obstacles as well. Mr. Clarke said many Jamaicans who received free seeds gave up on farming once they saw an increase in their water bills, or when thieves plundered their fields or stole their chickens.
加勒比地区官员追求的这种转变还面临着其他障碍。克拉克称，收到免费种子的许多牙买加人一旦看到水费增加、窃贼偷了田里的作物或者养的鸡就会放弃务农。
Still, officials across the region say more young people are getting involved, partly because food prices have soared, but also because governments have promised that agriculture means steady work, and not just in the fields.
然而，加勒比地区各国官员称，越来越多的年轻人正参与进来，不仅是因为食品价格飙升，还因为政府承诺务农就意味着稳定的工作，而且不限于田间工作。
The Bahamas is building a gleaming food science university to emphasize agricultural best practices.
巴哈马正在打造一座闪亮的食品科学大学以推广农业上的最佳实践。
Haiti, which experienced food riots in 2008, recently broke ground on a series of silos for a “strategic food reserve,” while Jamaica is considering investments in juicing and food preservation start-ups.
海地在2008年经历了粮食引发的骚乱，该国的一系列“战略粮食储备”仓库最近破图动工，牙买加则在考虑投资果汁和食品保鲜初创企业。
“We have idle hands and arable land,” Mr. Clarke said. “We are trying to see how we can bring those two together.”
“我们有多余的人手和富饶的土地，”克拉克说，“我们正在尝试如何让二者结合。”