SAN BRUNO, Calif. — A plucky Silicon Valley company, forced to compete for talented engineers, is trying it all — recruiting billboards on Highway 101; workplace perks like treadmill workstations and foosball tables; and conference rooms named after celebrities like Rihanna and Justin Bieber.
加利福尼亚圣布鲁诺——一家勇敢的硅谷公司，不得不参与工程师人才的争夺战，为此它动用了一切手段——在101号公路上竖立的招聘广告牌，工作场所里的福利，比如跑步机房和桌上足球娱乐设施；用蕾哈娜(Rihanna)和贾斯汀·比伯(Justin Bieber)等名人的名字给会议室命名。
The name of that arriviste company?
这家野心勃勃的公司叫什么呢？
Walmart.
沃尔玛。
The country’s largest retailer, which for years didn’t blink at would-be competitors, is now under such a threat from Amazon that it is frantically playing catch-up by learning the technology business, including starting @WalmartLabs, its dot-com headquarters.
作为美国最大的零售商，沃尔玛多年来从不把潜在竞争者放在眼里，现在，在亚马逊的威胁下，它正在通过学习技术业务，积极地设法跟上形势，措施包括开设互联网总部@WalmartLabs。
The two retail behemoths, one the king of the physical store and the other the conqueror of the online world, are battling over e-commerce — competing for the most talented engineers, trying to gain the upper hand in the new frontier of same-day delivery and warring over online pricing.
一个是实体店之王，一个是网上世界的征服者，这两家零售巨头正在争夺最有才华的工程师，试图在“当日送达” 的新领域占据上风，并且大打网上价格战。
They want to control not just Internet shopping but all shopping. Even as Walmart pours money into technology, Amazon is building a physical presence across the nation, adding warehouses and pickup locations. Both companies’ moves indicate that they believe the future of commerce is not just stores and not just online but a combination of the two.
他们想要控制的不只是网上购物，而是所有购物活动。尽管沃尔玛在技术领域注入资金，亚马逊却在全国范围内开设实体店，增设仓库和送货场。两家公司的举动表明，他们认为电子商务的未来不只是实体店，也不只是网上，而在于两者的结合。
For the first time in decades, Walmart, which drove company after company out of business, has a competitor it sounds a little scared of.
沃尔玛曾把一家又一家的公司逼到关门歇业，这是几十年来第一次，出现了一个它听起来有点害怕的竞争对手。
“Don’t think for a second that Jeff Bezos is not a capitalist,” Neil M. Ashe, chief executive of Walmart Global E-Commerce, said of the belief of Mr. Bezos, founder and chief executive of Amazon, in low prices and paper-thin margins. “They’re just playing a game, which is, ‘We’re just going to wait out the world.’ ”
“别以为杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)不是一位资本家，”沃尔玛全球电子商务执行总裁尼尔·M·阿什(Neil M. Ashe)在谈到亚马逊创始人兼首席执行官贝索斯对低价和微薄利润的认同时表示。“他们只是在玩一个游戏，这个游戏就是‘谁能捱到最后’。”
Amazon declined to comment.
亚马逊拒绝置评。
Although the fierce competition between Walmart and Amazon is occurring in all areas, to get the technological edge Walmart has to succeed in San Bruno.
尽管沃尔玛和亚马逊的激烈竞争发生在每一个领域，要获得技术优势，沃尔玛就必须在圣布鲁诺取得成功。
The company has had a small presence near Silicon Valley for more than a decade, but until recently, engineers in the area barely knew it existed. It signed a lease three years ago for the San Bruno office, north of the valley — and across the street from YouTube — and is opening another this fall in Sunnyvale, home of Yahoo, in the heart of the valley. It is trying hard to prove it is one of the cool kids.
十多年来，该公司在硅谷附近一直有一个小办公室，但直到最近，该地区的工程师几乎都不知道它的存在。沃尔玛三年前签下了硅谷北部圣布鲁诺办公室的租约，位置就在YouTube的街对面。今年秋天，它还将在硅谷中心地带的桑尼维尔租下另一个办公地点，该地也是雅虎的大本营。沃尔玛正在努力证明它也是一家很酷的公司。
For example, at press events in Bentonville, Ark., Walmart’s headquarters, the menu tends to be ham sandwiches, chips and iced tea. At a recent event in San Bruno, it was white asparagus panna cotta with house-smoked salmon tartar, morel mushroom macaroons and charcuterie from a whole pig. Borrowing a page from Google and Twitter, the company offers hack days when engineers can work on whatever they want.
例如，在阿肯色州本顿维尔沃尔玛总部举办的新闻发布会，食物往往是火腿三明治、薯片和冰茶。而最近在圣布鲁诺举办的新闻发布会，食物是白芦笋奶冻、熏鲑鱼配鞑靼式沙拉酱，羊肚菌杏仁饼和五花八门的猪肉熟食。该公司还借用了谷歌和Twitter的做法，提供“自由支配工作日”(hack days)，让工程师去做任何他们想做的项目。
The changes are more than cosmetic, though. This year, @WalmartLabs has gone on a start-up shopping spree, buying four companies — Torbit, OneOps, Tasty Labs and Inkiru — that build things like tools to crunch data and speed up Web sites. The acquisitions included some of the start-ups’ founders and engineers, the time-honored way for Silicon Valley companies to hire the talented employees they need to build better Web and mobile tools.
但是，这些变化远不是在做表面文章。今年，@WalmartLabs开始大肆收购创业公司，买下了四家公司：Torbit、OneOps、Tasty Labs和Inkiru。这些公司开发诸如数据处理工具、网站加速工具这样的产品。同时，作为硅谷久经考验的一种招募方式，收购活动将部分创业公司的创始人和工程师招致沃尔玛麾下，帮助它开发更好的网络和移动工具。
Walmart has hundreds of open jobs at its office here. This summer, the company hired 150 people from companies like Yahoo and eBay.
沃尔玛的硅谷办公室有数以百计的岗位空缺。今年夏天，该公司从雅虎和eBay等公司挖走了150人。
The company’s pitch to engineers is that Walmart moves quickly and has huge problems to solve, even if it is not a nimble newcomer or a buzzworthy start-up.
沃尔玛用来吸引工程师的广告词称，它行动迅速且有大问题要解决，虽然它并不是一个灵活的新入行企业或值得关注的创业公司。
“There’s big data and there’s Walmart big data,” said Ravi Raj, vice president for mobile and social products at @WalmartLabs. “Every week we release half a dozen features.”
“沃尔玛的大数据可不是一般的大数据，”@WalmartLabs负责移动和社交产品的副总裁拉维·拉杰(Ravi Raj)说。“每周我们都发布六项新功能。”
Amazon, which is based in Seattle, also has a Silicon Valley presence; its Lab126 research company, located a few miles from Apple’s headquarters, developed the Kindle and is working on other mobile devices. Amazon is a much bigger player online, with $74.4 billion in revenue expected for 2013. While Walmart’s total revenue is close to $500 billion, it has said it expects just a fraction of that, $10 billion, in e-commerce revenue for the year ending January 2014.
总部位于西雅图的亚马逊也在硅谷有分支。它的126实验室(Lab126)研究公司，距离苹果总部只有数英里的距离，开发了Kindle，并且正在研发其他移动设备。亚马逊作为一个互联网企业，其规模要大得多，预计其2013年的营业收入将达到744亿美元（约合4530亿元人民币）。而沃尔玛的总营业收入接近5000亿美元，该公司表示，它在电子商务方面的收入应该只占其中的一小部分，即截至2014年1月的财政年度达到100亿美元。
Walmart.com had 62.5 million unique visitors in August, compared with Amazon’s 133 million, according to Compete, which tracks Web use.
据追踪网络使用情况的Compete统计，Walmart.com8月份的访问人数为6250万，而相比之下，亚马逊该月的访问人数则达到了1.33亿。
“Amazon is the Walmart of the post-2000 period,” said Matt Nemer, an analyst at Wells Fargo.
“亚马逊接近于2000年后沃尔玛的情况，”富国银行(Wells Fargo)分析师马特·南贝尔(Matt Nember)说。
Walmart was slow to embrace online shopping, keeping its Web operations separate and haltingly adopting new technology. These days, though, it is trying to turn its 4,100 stores in the United States and many of its 6,200 stores overseas into e-commerce assets.
沃尔玛用了很长时间才接受了在线购物，它一直保持其网络运营的独立，采用新科技时也犹豫不决。但是最近，它正在试图将其位于美国的4100间店以及海外6200家店中的一大部分转化成电子商务资源。
Two-thirds of the United States population is within five miles of a Walmart, according to the company, and more than 10 percent of items ordered online are shipped from stores. Countries in which it has a physical presence for e-commerce include Brazil, China and Britain.
据沃尔玛称，三分之二的美国人中，其住所的五英里内必有一家沃尔玛，而且其网上订购的货物中超过10%都是从店里直接运送的。沃尔玛目前在巴西、中国和英国开有电子商务实体店。
It is also allowing customers to pick up online orders in stores or, in a test in Washington, in lockers. It is trying same-day delivery in five markets, and grocery delivery in the Bay Area and Denver.
沃尔玛还允许顾客到店里自取网上订购的商品，或者如它在华盛顿开展的试运营那样，到寄存柜里取。它还在五个市场试行当日送达服务，并且在湾区和丹佛尝试食品杂货送货服务。
Executives say Walmart wants to become almost as fast as Amazon, but for people who can’t afford the $79 fee of Amazon’s Prime service, with its free two-day shipping.
高管们说，沃尔玛希望能在送货速度上接近亚马逊的水平，但针对的是无法接受亚马逊Prime服务的79美元年费的人，沃尔玛免费提供当日下单次日送达的服务 。
Amazon has been building warehouses throughout the United States as it tries to expedite its shipping and conquer online grocery delivery. It has had lockers at stores like 7-Eleven for about a year, though in September, RadioShack and Staples stopped participating in the program. Abroad, Amazon has moved even faster with services like same-day delivery and groceries.
亚马逊一直在美国各地建立仓库，以加快送货速度，成为送货最快的食品杂货电商。亚马逊从大约一年以前开始在7-11这样的商店设置储物柜包裹自取系统，但在今年9月，RadioShack和史泰博(Staples Inc.)退出了这个项目。在海外，亚马逊采取了更快的行动，提供了当日送达和食品送货等服务。
Following Amazon, Walmart has revamped its online and mobile technology. It has software to watch social media like Pinterest for popular products and to monitor online prices and lower them accordingly or alert merchants.
在亚马逊之后，沃尔玛也对其网络和移动技术进行了更新。它用软件来监测Pinterest等社交媒体，从而发现受欢迎的商品，并监测网上的价格，从而相应地降价或对零售商进行提醒。
And it has created a mobile app that flips into in-store mode when customers enter a store and guides them to the milk or celery and offers digital coupons; customers can scan items as they shop for quick self-checkout.
此外，沃尔玛还推出了一款移动应用程序，用户进入一家商店时，这款应用程序就会开启“店内模式”，指导用户找到牛奶或芹菜的位置，并提供电子优惠券；用户可以通过在购物时扫描自己购买的商品快速地自行结账。
Analysts say that while Walmart’s scale and profitability give it an edge, its Web efforts still lag Amazon’s. The grocery delivery test, for instance, has gone on for two years without expansion. Mr. Nemer of Wells Fargo called many of the efforts, like lockers and same-day shipping, “blocking and tackling” without real relevance to Walmart’s dominance, or inferiority, in the new world of shopping.
分析人士说，尽管沃尔玛在规模和盈利能力上存在优势，但其网络行动仍然落后于亚马逊。例如，其食品杂货物流试点已经进行了两年，却没有扩大范围。富国银行的内梅称，沃尔玛的许多行动，比如储物柜包裹自取系统和当日送达服务，在新购物时代，都是最基本的做法，不会对沃尔玛的优势或劣势带来真正的改变。
Mr. Ashe of Walmart said of those efforts, “The question is whether people want them.” Echoing Facebook’s motto on risk taking, “fail harder,” he said: “We fully expect, and want, to shut things down.”
沃尔玛的阿什提到这些行动时说，“问题在于人们是否需要这些服务。”他提到了Facebook关于冒险的格言，“更努力地失败”，他说：“我们完全有准备、且愿意在效果不佳时收手。”
And, he said, the culture clash between Bentonville and San Bruno has not been as great as one might expect.
他还说，本顿维尔和圣布鲁诺之间的文化冲突没有人们想象的那么大。
“We are of Walmart and Silicon Valley at the same time,” he said. “So we have a great cafeteria, but we don’t pay for all your food.”
“我们既是沃尔玛，又是硅谷，”他说，“所以我们有很棒的食堂，但不是所有食物都免费。”