In the summer of 2010, Mr. Andrade was growing restless. He had studied criminology in college in hopes of becoming a police officer, not realizing that there was a minimum height requirement of 5-foot-3. He was two inches shy. His night watchman job at a hospital paid less than 50 cents an hour. When not working in his family’s rice paddy, he spent much of his time watching cartoons on television, according to his brother Julius, 38.
2010年夏天，安德拉德(Andrade)心情越来越焦躁。他在大学里学的是犯罪学，原希望能成为一名警官，但他不知道当警察有5英尺3英寸（约合1.6米）的最低身高要求。他离这个标准差2英寸。他晚上在一家医院做看守，工资每小时不到50美分。据他38岁的哥哥朱利叶斯(Julius)讲，家里的稻田没活干时，他大部分时间都在看电视上的动画片。
When a cousin told him about possible work at sea, Mr. Andrade saw it as a chance to tour the world while earning enough money to help his family. He was introduced to Ms. Robelo, who prosecutors say was the local Step Up recruiter. She said the pay was $500 per month, in addition to a $50 allowance, his brother and mother recounted to the police.
当一位表亲对他提到有在海上的工作时，安德拉德将它看作环游世界同时赚钱养家的机会。他被介绍给了罗韦洛(Robelo)，检方称她是Step Up公司在当地的招聘人员。据安德拉德的兄弟和母亲向警方讲，罗韦洛当时称工资是每月500美元，外加50美元的补贴。
Mr. Andrade agreed to sign up, handed over about $200 in “processing fees” and left for Manila, 220 miles north of here. He paid $318 more before flying to Singapore in September 2010. He received his plane ticket on his 31st birthday. A company representative met him at the airport and took him to Step Up’s office in Singapore’s crowded Chinatown district.
安德拉德同意签合同，他交了大约200美元的“手续费”，然后前往220英里以北的马尼拉。在2010年9月飞往新加坡之前，他又交了318美元。31岁生日那天，他收到了机票。一名公司代表在机场和他碰面，把他带到了Step Up位于拥挤的新加坡唐人街的办公室。
If Mr. Andrade’s experience was like those of the other Filipino men interviewed by The New York Times, he would have been told then that there had been a mistake: His pay would be less than half of what he had been expecting. And after multiple deductions, the $200 monthly wage would shrink even more.
如果安德拉德的经历和《纽约时报》采访的其他菲律宾男子一样，他在那里会被告知，出了一些差错：他的工资将不到之前期待的数目一半。而且经过好多项扣费之后，这200美元的月薪还会进一步缩水。
A half-dozen other men from Mr. Andrade’s village, who prosecutors said were also recruited by Step Up, recalled in interviews that the paperwork flew by in a whirlwind of fast-moving calculations and unfamiliar terms (“passport forfeiture,” “mandatory fees,” “sideline earnings”).
来自安德拉德所在村庄的另外六名男子——检方表示他们同样是被Step Up招募——在接受采访时回忆，签文件时有一系列快速而令人眼花缭乱的计算，而且夹杂很多陌生的术语（“护照没收”、“强制收费”、“兼职收入”）。
First, they were required to sign a contract, they said, that typically stipulated a three-year binding commitment, no overtime pay, no sick leave, 18- to 20-hour workdays, six-day workweeks and $50 monthly food deductions, and that granted captains full discretion to reassign crew members to other ships. Wages were to be disbursed not monthly to the workers’ families but only after completion of the contract, a practice that is illegal at registered agencies.
他们表示，自己首先会被要求签一个合同，通常为三年期。按合同要求，他们没有加班工资和病假，每周需要工作六天，每天工作18-20个小时，每月要被扣减50美元的餐费，而且船长可以全权决定将船员分派到其他船只。工资不是每月支付给他们的家人，而是要在合同期满之后支付，这种做法对于注册机构来说是非法行为。
Next, some of them signed a bill to pay for food supplies in advance; like most of the deductions, the $250 fee was kept by the agency. Then came the “promissory note,” confirming that the mariner would pay a “desertion penalty,” usually more than $1,800, if he left. The document noted that to collect their wages, crew members would have to fly back to Singapore at their own expense.
其次，他们中的一些人要签一个账单，用以提前支付食品费用；就像大多数扣减项目一样，这250美元也是由中介收取。接着还有“期票”，用以确保如果水手离开，会支付往往超过1800美元的“擅离职守罚金”。合同文件还指明，要拿到自己的工资，船员必须自费飞回新加坡。
Mr. Andrade, like the other deckhands recruited by Step Up, came from a village (Linabuan Sur’s population is roughly 3,000). The men said they had never before traveled abroad, worked on the high seas, heard the term “trafficking” or dealt with a manning agency. None could explain why they might need a copy of any contract they signed as proof of a two-way agreement. They still did not know why it was troubling that a boss in a foreign country should confiscate their passports, which rendered them powerless to leave.
和其他被Step Up招募的普通水手一样，安德拉德也是来自乡村（南林那布安的人口大约为3000人）。这些男子表示，他们从没出过国，没在远海工作过，没听说过“人口贩卖”这样的词，也没有和劳务中介打过交道。他们没人知道，需要保存一份自己签署的合同的复印件，作为双方协议的证明。他们也不明白，在国外，老板没收他们的护照后会带来很大的麻烦，不知道他们会因此无法离开。
By that point, most of the men were deeply in debt, some more than $2,000, from recruiters’ fees, lodging expenses, health checkups, tourist visas and seamen’s books (mandatory maritime paperwork). They had borrowed from relatives, mortgaged their homes and pawned family possessions: “our one fishing boat,” “my brother’s home” and a carabao (a water buffalo), they said.
到那个时候，因为支付中介费、住宿费、体检费、办旅游签证和海员证（必须具备的海上工作证件）的费用，他们大多数已经负债累累，有些超过2000美元。他们从亲戚那了借钱，抵押了房屋或家庭资产，比如“我们唯一的一艘渔船”，“我兄弟的房子”，或一头水牛。
Standing on a 35-foot wooden boat late one recent night, about 40 miles from the Philippine shore, Condrad Bonihit, a friend of Mr. Andrade’s, explained why poor villagers gravitated to illegal manning agencies.
最近的一个深夜，站在距离菲律宾海岸40英里（约合65公里）远、长35英尺的一艘木船上，安德拉德的朋友康德拉德·伯尼希特(Condrad Bonihit)解释了为什么贫穷的村民会被非法中介机构吸引。
“It takes money to make money,” Mr. Bonihit said as he helped hoist a 50-foot net gyrating with anchovies. To get jobs legally requires coursework at an accredited trade school that can cost $4,000 or so, he said, far more than most villagers can afford. And the wages quoted by Step Up are often nearly double what the men might make through an accredited company.
“赚钱是需要本钱的，”伯尼希特一边说，一边帮助升起一张50英尺长的渔网，转动着的渔网里满是鳀鱼。他表示，要找到合法的工作，需要在经官方认可的职业学校上课，费用可能会达到4000美元，大多数村民远远负担不起。而Step Up最初给他们报的工资，却是这些人在一个正规企业能拿到的工资的将近两倍。
At sea, though, the reality is different from the promises on land, Mr. Bonihit said, adding that he had lasted 10 months in the job he got through Step Up. When the once-a-week beatings of crew members became too much to bear, he left his ship in port. With help from missionaries, he flew home, he said.
只不过，伯尼希特说海上的真实情况和陆地上做出的承诺相差比较大。他还表示，通过Step Up得到的那份工作，他只坚持了10个月。船上一周对船员进行一次殴打，情况越来越难以忍受，他趁着船靠港口时离开了那里。他表示，在几名传教士的帮助下，他飞回了家。
“You go with pride,” he said of his experience, “come back with shame.”
“带着骄傲去，带着耻辱回，”他如此描述自己的经历。
Even though Mr. Andrade, Mr. Bonihit and the other Filipino men traveled to Singapore at different times over the past five years, nearly all of them described in virtually identical terms a two-bedroom apartment on the 16th floor, above Step Up’s office, where they waited before and after voyages.
尽管在过去五年里，安德拉德、伯尼希特和其他菲律宾男子是在不同的时间去了新加坡，但几乎所有人都以基本一样的话描述了一套位于16层的两居室公寓，它在Step Up的办公室上方，出海前后，他们都在那里等待。
As he headed toward his first job at sea, Mr. Andrade stayed in the apartment for about a week, according to family members who spoke with him briefly by phone. Pots and pans were stacked in the corners, and the walls were greasy from frying fish. The floor was so dirty that moss grew in patches, and with the windows sealed, the rooms reeked of urine and sweat, according to interviews and court records.
据曾经和他短暂通电话的家人回忆，在前去做他在海上的第一份工作之前，安德拉德在这个公寓待了大约一周。采访和法庭记录文件显示，公寓内坛坛罐罐堆满了各个角落，墙面上因炸鱼而油迹斑斑。地板很脏，生出了一块块霉斑，窗户被封了起来，屋内有尿液和汗液的臭味。
A short Filipino man in his 40s, known as Bong, managed the apartment for Step Up with a Chinese woman, Lina, affidavits say. New recruits were told to keep their voices down and to avoid moving around much. Some of the men were required to leave before 7 a.m. and return after dark. Others were confined to the apartment, which Bong kept locked all the time.
法庭证词显示，40多岁的矮个子菲律宾男子邦(Bong)和一个名为莉娜(Lina)的华人女子，为Step Up管理着这间公寓。新来的人会被告知，不要大声喧哗，避免太多走动。一些人被要求早7点前出门，天黑后回来。其他人则被困在公寓里，邦会一直锁着公寓门。
At night, 20 or more men lay on flattened cardboard on the floor, inches apart. If Bong pointed at you, three of the seafarers recounted, it meant you were to sleep in his room, where, they said, he demanded sex. “No was not an option,” one of the men said, because Bong controlled who got which jobs.
晚上，20多个男人都睡在铺在地上的纸板上，相互间距不过几英寸。据三名水手描述，如果邦指向你，就意味着要你睡到他的房间里，他们说，在那里他会要求你提供性服务。“你没法说不，”其中一名男子说，因为邦可以决定把工作机会给谁。
Mr. Andrade’s relatives say they lost track of him shortly after receiving his final text message. “Bro, this is Eril,” Mr. Andrade wrote on Sept. 15, 2010. “I am now here in Singapore I was not able to text earlier I ran out of phone credit.”
安德拉德的亲戚表示，收到他最后一条短信后不久，他们就失去了他的消息。“兄弟，我是叶里，”安德拉德在2010年9月15日写道。“我现在在新加坡，之前手机欠费，我不能发信息。”