Established in 1988, the manning company, then known as Step Up Employment Agency, initially recruited domestic labor, providing workers for cooking, cleaning and child care jobs in Singapore. In 1995, it adopted a new name and agenda. “Supplies Philippines, China, Indonesia, Vietnam, Myanmar, Nepal, India fisherman,” a business card said. “With Over 25 years of experience in fishing Vessel, We Strive To Serve You Better!”
劳务中介公司Step Up成立于1988年，当时名为Step Up职业介绍所，最初只招募国内劳动力，介绍新加坡境内的厨师、清洁工、儿童看护方面的工作。1995年，它换了名字，也更改了业务。“供应来自菲律宾、中国、印度尼西亚、越南、缅甸、尼泊尔和印度的渔民，”该公司的一张名片上写道。“在渔业劳务介绍领域拥有25年的经验，竭诚为您提供更好的服务！”
For years, the agency was run by Victor Lim, now in his mid-60s, and his wife, Mary, according to court records. Its main office, on the second floor of a shopping mall, across from a sex-toy shop and a massage parlor, is small and cramped.
法庭记录文件显示，多年来，该中介公司一直由现年65岁上下的维克托·林(Victor Lim)及其妻子玛丽(Mary)经营。它的主要办公室位于一个购物中心的二层，在一个性用品商店和一家按摩院对面，空间小且拥挤。
After Andrade died, officials from Step Up and Hung Fei Fishery Co., the owner of the Taiwanese fishing ship he had worked on, offered to pay his family about $5,000, according to a 2012 letter from the Philippine Embassy in Singapore. (The death benefit provided to a seafarer by a legal manning agency in the Philippines is typically at least $50,000.) The family declined, instead filing a complaint against Step Up in November 2011 with Singapore's Ministry of Manpower. Officials at the ministry and on a government anti-trafficking task force said last month that they were waiting for a formal request from the Philippine government before investigating.
来自菲律宾驻新加坡大使馆的一封2012年的信件显示，安德拉德死后，Step Up和及他生前工作的那艘台湾渔船所属公司鸿飞（音）渔业(Hung Fei Fishery Co)表示愿意给他的家人提供5万美元的补偿。（一家菲律宾正规劳务中介公司为一名海员支付的死亡抚恤金一般至少为50万美金。）安德拉德的家人拒绝了，他们在2011年11月向新加坡人力部(Ministry of Manpower)投诉了Step Up公司。新加坡人力部及打击人口贩卖工作组的官员上月表示，他们正等待菲律宾政府发出正式请求，之后才能开始进行调查。
Police officials and prosecutors in Andrade's province, Aklan, voiced frustration at what they said was a lack of response from the federal authorities in Manila. Celso J. Hernandez Jr., a lawyer with the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration, the agency responsible for protecting Filipino workers sent abroad, said he had no records on Andrade's death or on Step Up. “The illegal manning agencies are invisible to us,” he said. The Philippine anti-trafficking task force did not respond to requests for comment.
安德拉德所在的阿克兰省的警方和检方表达了他们的无奈，因为马尼拉联邦当局对此事反应冷淡。负责维护菲律宾海外劳工权益的菲律宾海外就业管理局(Philippine Overseas Employment Administration)的律师塞尔索·J·小埃尔南德斯(Celso J. Hernandez Jr.)表示，他手上没有安德拉德的死亡记录，也没有Step Up的相关记录。“我们掌握不到非法劳务中介公司的信息。”他说。菲律宾打击人口贩卖工作组没有回应时报的置评请求。
Taiwanese police and fishery officials said they had no record of having questioned Shao Chin Chung, the captain of Andrade's ship, about his death. The ship, Hung Yu 212, was cited for illegal fishing in 2000, 2011 and 2012, according to the commissions that regulate tuna fishing in the Indian and Atlantic Oceans. A secretary at Hung Fei Fishery Co., based in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, said recently that the owner was traveling and was not available to answer questions. Efforts to interview other crew members were unsuccessful.
台湾警方和渔业官员表示，他们没有就安德拉德的死亡询问他所在那艘船的船主邵金钟（音）的记录。负责管理印度洋和大西洋金枪鱼渔业的几个委员会的记录显示，这艘名为“鸿佑212”（Hung Yu 212，音）的渔船在2000年、2011年和2012年都被列为非法捕鱼船。鸿飞渔业位于台湾高雄的一名工作人员最近表示，公司老板正在外旅行，不便接受采访。时报也没能采访到船上其他几位船员。
On April 6, 2011, Andrade's cadaver arrived at port in Singapore on the Hung Yu 212. Dr. Wee Keng Poh, a forensic pathologist at Singapore's Health Sciences Authority, conducted an autopsy six days later. He concluded that the cause of death was acute myocarditis, an inflammatory disease of the heart muscle. His report gave little more detail.
2011年4月6日，安德拉德的尸体被鸿佑212号载至新加坡港口，一周后，新加坡卫生科学局法医黄庆宝(Wee Keng Poh)进行了尸检。他做出的结论是，急性心肌炎致死。他所做的尸检报告没有提供更多细节。
The body was then flown to the Philippines, where Dr. Noel Martinez — the pathologist in Kalibo, the provincial capital — performed a second autopsy. He disagreed with the first, instead citing a heart attack as the cause of death. Martinez's autopsy report also noted extensive unexplained bruises and cuts, inflicted before death, on Andrade's brow, upper and lower lip, nose, upper right chest and right armpit.
尸体被运回菲律宾后，阿克兰省省府卡利博的病理学家诺埃尔·马丁内斯(Noel Martinez)博士进行了第二次尸检。他的结论和第一次尸检不同，将死亡原因归为心脏病发作。马丁内斯所做的尸检报告还指出，尸体上有大量原因不明的瘀痕和伤口，是在安德拉德死前造成，分布于他的前额、上下嘴唇、鼻子、右侧胸部偏上位置和右腋窝。 
Andrade's pancreas and one eye were missing. The two pathologists could not be reached, but a provincial police investigator suggested that the organs could have been damaged in an accident aboard the ship or removed during the first autopsy. Removing an eye is not typical in an autopsy, several pathologists in New York said, adding that the pancreas might have been missing because it sometimes decomposes faster than other organs.
安德拉德的尸体缺了一个胰脏，还少了一只眼睛。时报没能联系到上述两位病理学家，但阿克兰省警察局一名侦查人员暗示，这些器官有可能是在船上发生的一起事故中被损害，或在第一次尸检时被摘掉。纽约几位病理学家表示，在尸检时摘掉一只眼睛的情况比较少见，不过他们表示，胰脏有可能丢失掉，因为它有时比其他器官腐烂得更快。
Shaking his head, Emmanuel Concepcion, a friend of Andrade's, said he knew what conditions on long-haul fishing boats were like and doubted that Andrade had died of natural causes. After being recruited by Step Up, Concepcion also worked on a Taiwanese tuna ship, in the South Atlantic but quit after the cook fatally stabbed the captain, who had routinely beaten crew members.
安德拉德的朋友伊曼纽尔·康赛普西翁(Emmanuel Concepcion)一边摇头，一边说他知道远洋渔船上的情况，他不相信安德拉德是死于正常原因。被Step Up招募后，康斯普西翁也曾在南大西洋海域上的一艘台湾金枪鱼渔船上工作，但后来辞去了工作，因为当时船上的厨师刺死了经常殴打船员的船长。
Asked what he thought was the most likely cause of his friend's death, Concepcion said, simply, “Violence.”
当被问道他觉得安德拉德死亡最有可能的原因是什么，康赛普西翁简短地回答，“暴力”。
Down a dirt road, surrounded by rice paddies, Robelo sat behind cinder-block walls in a remote jail. Housing about 223 prisoners, only 24 of them women, the 5-acre Aklan Rehabilitation Center has the feel of a bustling shantytown. Chickens and visiting children scurried underfoot as prisoners squatted on a roof overlooking the courtyard.
在一条两边都是稻田的泥土路的尽头，有一座偏僻的监狱，罗韦洛(Robe)就在那几道煤渣砖墙之内。这座监狱共囚禁233名犯人，其中只有24名女性。面积5英亩（约合2万平方米）的阿克兰改造中心(Aklan Rehabilitation Center)给人感觉像一个热闹的棚户区。地上有鸡和来访的儿童跑来跑去，屋顶上蹲着一些犯人正在往下方的院子里张望。
Most of the 10 Step Up workers, including Lim and his wife, who have been charged in absentia by the Philippine authorities are in Singapore, and they are unlikely to be prosecuted because there is no extradition treaty between the countries.
菲律宾已经在对方缺席的情况下，对包括维克多·林及其妻子在内的Step Up的10名员工提出了指控，但他们大多数人都在新加坡，不大可能受到刑罚，因为两国没有签署引渡条约。
Jailed since May 2013, Robelo cried while explaining what had led to her arrest.
罗韦洛自2013年入狱至今，她一边哭一边解释是什么导致她被捕。
“When I got a name,” she said, “I called it to Singapore.” She never met or spoke directly with any of the Lims, she said; she communicated only with her sister-in-law in Singapore. Before Andrade's death, she said, she never heard from the men prosecutors say she recruited, some of them her relatives, about what happened in Singapore or at sea. She said she had only signed up three men, not 10, as prosecutors charge.
“如果有了合适的人，”她说，“我会往新加坡打电话。”她说自己从没见过和维克多·林和他妻子，也没跟他们任何人直接联系过，一直只是和她在新加坡的一位妯娌联系。她说，在安德拉德出事之前，她没有从检方表示是由她招募的人那里了解过，他们去新加坡或到海上之后的情况。她还表示，自己只签了三个人，不是检方所说的10个。
“If no one has work, a job is something you share,” Robelo said, adding that she saw her role as “helping the boys,” not officially recruiting them. She said she had been told that the $2 promised (but never paid) for each person she referred was not a commission but intended to offset the cost of driving to the men's houses for paperwork.
“如果大家都没工作，任何工作机会都很值得分享，”罗韦洛说，她还表示，她觉得自己是在“帮助那些青年”，而不是正式地招募劳工。她说，有人向她承诺（从来没有兑现）每招募一个人给她2美元，但她也被告知这不是佣金，是为补偿她开车前往那些人家里签文件所花的费用。
Visiting the jail, her husband, Mitchell, 44, and children — Xavier, 9, and Gazrelle, 7 — stood nearby. Mitchell Robelo has been unemployed since he sold his auto rickshaw to raise $2,800 to pay his wife's first lawyer, who, the couple said, took the money and disappeared without doing any work.
探监时，她44岁的丈夫米切尔(Mitchell)和孩子——9岁的泽维尔(Xavier)和7岁的加斯雷勒(Gazrelle)——就站在一旁。自从以2800美元卖掉自己的机动三轮车，用以给妻子的第一位律师支付律师费后，米切尔·罗韦洛就一直处于无业状态。夫妇二人表示，那名律师拿了钱之后就消失了，没帮他们做任何事。
In Kalibo, a prosecutor, Reynaldo B. Peralta Jr., said local police had not interviewed other crew members from Andrade's ship about how he died because they were elsewhere in the Philippines, beyond Peralta's jurisdiction.
在卡利博，检察官小雷纳尔多•B•佩拉尔塔(Reynaldo B. Peralta Jr)表示，当地警方没有询问安德拉德所在船只的其他船员有关其死因的问题，因为他们在菲律宾的其他地方，超出了佩拉尔塔的管辖范围。
“Were it not for her recruitment,” Peralta said of Celia Robelo, “these victims would not have left the country.” Robelo knew she was recruiting illegally, he claimed, because some villagers gave her money to send to Singapore.
“如果她没有进行招募，”佩拉尔塔提到西莉亚•罗韦洛时说，“这些受害者不会离开这个国家。” 他声称，罗韦洛知道她在进行违法招募，因为一些村民给她钱让她寄往新加坡。
Back in the village, hidden behind a thicket of banana trees, the empty metal lining from Andrade's coffin sat alongside the now-abandoned house he had hoped to repair. A half-dozen unpaid electric bills were wedged into the cracked front door, addressed to his mother, Molina, who died in 2013 from liver failure. Inside, water dripped through the ceiling.
在村里的香蕉树丛后，安德拉德棺材的金属衬板就放在他曾希望修缮的房屋旁边，房子现在已遭废弃。六张寄给他母亲莫利纳(Molina)的尚未支付的电费账单被塞进破裂的前门。莫利纳在2013年因为肝功能衰竭而死亡。屋里的天花板还在漏水。
Julius, Andrade's brother, said that unless officials in Manila got more involved, he did not believe he would ever get justice for his brother's death. “It's not right,” he said of Robelo's incarceration. The real culprits who should be in jail, he added, are in Singapore and at sea.
安德拉德的哥哥朱利叶斯说，除非马尼拉的官员加大调查力度，否则他觉得自己永远都无法为弟弟的死讨回公道。“这不对，”他提到罗韦洛遭到关押一事时说。他还表示，应该坐牢的真正凶手在新加坡，有的在海上。