LINABUAN SUR, the Philippines — When Eril Andrade left this small village, he was healthy and hoping to earn enough on a fishing boat on the high seas to replace his mother’s leaky roof.
菲律宾南林那布安——当叶里·安德拉德(Eril Andrade)离开这个小村庄时，他是健康的，希望坐着渔船去公海打渔赚钱，为母亲换掉漏水的屋顶。
Seven months later, his body was sent home in a wooden coffin: jet black from having been kept in a fish freezer aboard a ship for more than a month, missing an eye and his pancreas, and covered in cuts and bruises, which an autopsy report later concluded had been inflicted before death.
七个月后，送回家的却是装有其遗体的木质棺材：由于在船上的水产冷藏库中放置了一个多月，遗体已经乌黑，一只眼睛和胰脏消失不见，而且遍体鳞伤，后来的尸检报告断定，这是他生前所受的伤。
“Sick and resting,” said a note taped to his body. Handwritten in Chinese by the ship’s captain, it stated only that Mr. Andrade, 31, had fallen ill in his sleep.
他身上贴着的纸条写道，“生病休息。”这张由船长手写的中文字条只说明，31岁的安德拉德在睡眠过程中病倒。
Mr. Andrade, who died in February 2011, and nearly a dozen other men in his village had been recruited by an illegal “manning agency,” tricked with false promises of double the actual wages and then sent to an apartment in Singapore, where they were locked up for weeks, according to interviews and affidavits taken by local prosecutors. While they waited to be deployed to Taiwanese tuna ships, several said, a gatekeeper demanded sex from them for assignments at sea.
安德拉德于2011年2月死亡。采访记录和当地检察机构的证人证言显示，他和村里十几名男性被非法“劳务中介”招收，该中介谎称会支付两倍的工资，将他们送到新加坡的一个屋子里，关了几周的时间。有几人表示，在等待被台湾金枪鱼捕鱼船雇佣期间，一名看门人要求他们提供性服务，才安排他们出海工作。
Once aboard, the men endured 20-hour workdays and brutal beatings, only to return home unpaid and deeply in debt from thousands of dollars in upfront costs, prosecutors say.
检查官表示，他们一旦上船，就要每天工作20小时，会遭到殴打，结果最后只能两手空空地回家，并会因为预付费用而负债数千美元。
Thousands of maritime employment agencies around the world provide a vital service, supplying crew members for ships, from small trawlers to giant container carriers, and handling everything from paychecks to plane tickets. While many companies operate responsibly, over all the industry, which has drawn little attention, is poorly regulated. The few rules on the books do not even apply to fishing ships, where the worst abuses tend to happen, and enforcement is lax.
世界各地数以千计的海事劳务中介提供一项重要服务，为从小型拖网渔船到巨型集装箱船的船舶供应船员，处理从工资到机票的所有事宜。虽然很多公司认真负责，但总体而言，整个行业受到关注较少，监管松懈。规章手册上仅有的几条规定甚至不适用于渔船。渔船上常常发生最为严重的暴行，而且执法不力。
Illegal agencies operate with even greater impunity, sending men to ships notorious for poor safety and labor records; instructing them to travel on tourist or transit visas, which exempt them from the protections of many labor and anti-trafficking laws; and disavowing them if they are denied pay, injured, killed, abandoned or arrested at sea.
非法中介更是有恃无恐地操作经营，将男性送往因安全性及劳工记录极差而臭名昭著的船只工作；并要求他们利用旅游签证或过境签证出行，如此一来，他们就不受很多劳工法及反人口贩卖法的保护；如果劳工出现未获工资、受伤、被杀、在海上被遗弃或扣押的情况，中介会否认自己认识他们。
“It’s lies and cheating on land, then beatings and death at sea, then shame and debt when these men get home,” said Shelley Thio, a board member of Transient Workers Count Too, a migrant workers’ advocacy group in Singapore. “And the manning agencies are what make it all possible.”
“他们在陆地上面对的都是谎言和欺骗，到了海上面对的就是殴打和死亡，回到家后备受屈辱，肩负重债，“新加坡的外籍工人倡导组织客工亦重(Transient Workers Count Too)执行委员谢莉·狄奥(Shelley Thio)说。“这些中介机构让一切成为可能。”
Step Up Marine Enterprise, the Singapore-based company that recruited Mr. Andrade and the other villagers, has a well-documented record of trouble, according to an examination of court records, police reports and case files in Singapore and the Philippines. In episodes dating back two decades, the company has been tied to trafficking, severe physical abuse, neglect, deceptive recruitment and failure to pay hundreds of seafarers in India, Indonesia, Mauritius, the Philippines and Tanzania.
查看新加坡及菲律宾的法庭记录、警方报告和案卷资料发现，有证据证明，招募安德拉德及其他村民的新加坡公司Step Up Marine Enterprise劣迹斑斑。在过去20年中，该公司涉嫌贩卖人口、严重体罚、忽于照管、欺骗性招聘，而且未能支付数以百计的来自印度、印度尼西亚、毛里求斯、菲律宾及坦桑尼亚的水手的工资。
Still, its owners have largely escaped accountability. Last year, for example, prosecutors opened the biggest trafficking case in Cambodian history, involving more than 1,000 fishermen, but had no jurisdiction to charge Step Up for recruiting them. In 2001, the Supreme Court of the Philippines harshly reprimanded Step Up and a partner company in Manila for systematically duping men, knowingly sending them to abusive employers and cheating them, but Step Up’s owners faced no penalties.
但该公司所有者还是基本上逃脱了责任。例如，检察官在去年立案调查柬埔寨史上规模最大的人口贩卖案件，涉及1000多名渔民，但检方没有权限对该公司招募工人的行为进行起诉。2001年，菲律宾最高法院(Supreme Court of the Philippines)严厉斥责该公司及其在马尼拉的合作企业系统性地诓骗劳工，在知情的情况下将他们派给存在虐待行为的雇主并欺骗他们，但该公司的所有者没有受到任何惩罚。
The Philippine authorities have charged 11 people tied to Step Up with trafficking and illegal recruitment of Mr. Andrade and others from the Philippines. But only one person, allegedly a low-level culprit, has been arrested and is likely to be tried: Celia Robelo, 46, who faces a potential life sentence for what prosecutors say was a recruiting effort that earned her at most $20 in commissions.
菲律宾当局控告11名与该公司有关的人员贩卖人口，并非法招聘安德拉德及其他菲律宾人。但只有一人被逮捕，据称此人只是名涉案的小喽啰，她可能会受审。46岁的西莉亚·罗韦洛(Celia Robelo)可能被判处终身监禁，检方称，她每招聘一名劳工就获得最多20美元的佣金。
Mr. Andrade’s story was pieced together from interviews with his family, other seamen recruited in or near his village, police officers, lawyers and aid workers in Jakarta, Manila and Singapore. It highlights the tools — debt, trickery, fear, violence, shame and family ties — used to recruit men, entrap them and leave them at sea, sometimes for years under harsh conditions.
记者采访了和安德拉德一案有关的很多人，拼凑出了他的故事，这些人包括他的亲属、其他来自该村庄或临近村庄的水手，以及雅加达、马尼拉和新加坡的警察、律师与救援人员。这个故事突显出中介招聘、诱骗劳工的各种手段：债务、欺骗、恐惧、暴力、羞辱和亲属关系。这些水手会被困在海上，有时要在艰苦环境中渡过多年时光。
No country exports more seafarers than the Philippines, which provides roughly a quarter of them globally. More than 400,000 Filipinos sought work last year as officers, deckhands, fishermen, cargo handlers and cruise workers. Mr. Andrade’s death shows that governments are sometimes unable or unwilling to protect the rights of citizens far from home.
菲律宾是世界最大的水手输出国，全球大约四分之一的水手来自该国。去年，40多万名菲律宾求职者希望成为高级船员、甲板水手、渔民、货物处理员和游船工作人员。安德拉德的死亡说明，政府有时无法或不愿保护远离家乡的公民的权利。
The abuse of Filipino seamen has increased in recent years, labor officials in the Philippines say, because the country’s maritime trade schools produce, on average, 20,000 graduates a year for fewer than 5,000 openings. As men grow desperate for work, they take greater risks. Roughly a third of them now use agencies that are illegal — unregistered and willing to break rules, the officials said.
菲律宾劳工官员表示，菲律宾水手近些年来遭受的暴行不断增加，因为该国的海上贸易学校每年平均有两万名毕业生，而空缺的职位却不到5000个。由于男性急于获得工作，他们愿意承担更大的风险。官员们表示，其中大约三分之一的人通过未注册且愿意违规的非法中介找工作。
Such agencies, favored by ship operators and workers looking to shave costs, compound the problem of lawlessness on the high seas. Scofflaw ships cast off stowaways and deplete fishing stocks. Violence is rampant, and few nations patrol the waters, much less enforce violations of maritime laws or international pacts.
在希望降低成本的船舶运营商和工人的支持下，此类中介加剧了公海区域缺乏法律约束的问题。违法船只抛弃偷渡者，耗尽渔业资源。暴力活动猖獗，但没有几个国家在该水域巡逻，就更不用说打击违反海事法律或国际协定的行为了。
In Manila, in late September, along a densely packed two-block stretch of sidewalk on Kalaw Avenue near the bay, hundreds of seafarers looked for work. Recruiters from manning agencies — some legal, many not — carried signs around their necks listing job openings or pointed to brochures arrayed on tables. Fixers sold fake accreditation papers while a popular Tagalog rap song, “Seaman Lolo Ko” (“My Grandpa Is a Seaman”), boomed in the background.
今年9月晚些时候，在马尼拉，海湾附近卡劳大街横跨两个街区的人行道上拥挤不堪，数百水手在找工作。一些合法劳务中介及很多不合法的中介的招聘人员脖子上挂着列出空缺职位的标牌，或指着桌上摆的宣传册。中间人伴随着用他加禄语演唱的名为《我的爷爷是水手》(Seaman Lolo Ko)的说唱歌曲售卖虚假认证文件。
“These days,” the singer, known as Yongas, rapped, “it’s the seaman getting duped.” Mariners, who used to be the cheaters (on their spouses), he warned, are now the ones cheated (by everyone else).
“如今，”被称为永加斯(Yongas)的歌手说唱道，“水手遭到欺骗。”他警告称，过去常常骗人（欺骗配偶）的水手现在成为（其他所有人的）欺骗目标。