Whenever Michael Carl, the fashion market director at Vanity Fair, goes out to dinner with friends, he plays something called the “phone stack” game: Everyone places their phones in the middle of the table; whoever looks at their device before the check arrives picks up the tab.
《名利场》杂志的时装市场总监迈克尔·卡尔(Michael Carl)不管何时与朋友外出就餐，总会玩一个叫“手机堆”的游戏：每个人都把手机放在桌子中央，谁在结账之前看手机，谁就请客。
Brandon Holley, the former editor of Lucky magazine, had trouble ditching her iPhone when she got home from work. So about six months ago, she began tossing her phone into a vintage milk tin the moment she walked in. It remains there until after dinner.
《幸运》杂志的前编辑布兰登·霍利(Brandon Holley)下班回家后总是放不下她的iPhone。大约六个月前，她一进家门就把手机丢进一个古董牛奶罐中，手机会一直待在那里直到她吃完晚饭。
And Marc Jacobs, the fashion designer, didn’t want to sleep next to a beeping gizmo. So he banned digital devices from his bedroom, a house rule he shared with audiences during a recent screening of “Disconnect,” a film that dramatizes how technology has alienated people from one other.
时装设计师马克·雅可布(Marc Jacobs)不想睡在一个嗡嗡作响的小玩意旁边，所以他禁止把数码设备带入卧室。最近上映的《断线》(Disconnect)的观众们得跟他遵循同样的家规。这部电影讲述的是科技如何使人们更疏远。
As smartphones continue to burrow their way into our lives, and wearable devices like Google Glass threaten to erode our personal space even further, overtaxed users are carving out their own device-free zones with ad hoc tricks and life hacks.
智能手机继续潜伏在我们的生活中，像谷歌眼镜这样的可佩戴设备可能会进一步侵蚀我们的私人空间，因此，不堪重负的用户们开始通过特别的方法和生活小窍门开拓自己的无设备区域。
Whether it’s a physical barrier (no iPads at the dinner table) or a conceptual one (turn off devices by 11 p.m.), users say these weaning techniques are improving their relationships — and their sanity.
不管是物质上的阻断（在餐桌上不能用iPad）或者观念上的阻断（晚上11点前关掉手机），手机用户说这些“断奶”方法在改善他们的人际关系和精神状况。
“Disconnecting is a luxury that we all need,” said Lesley M. M. Blume, a New York writer who keeps her phone away from the dinner table at home. “The expectation that we must always be available to employers, colleagues, family: it creates a real obstacle in trying to set aside private time. But that private time is more important than ever.”
“断线是我们都需要的奢侈享受，”纽约作家莱斯利·M·M·布卢姆(Lesley M. M. Blume)说。她在家用餐时不把手机带到餐桌上。“老板、同事和家人期望随时能联系上我们，这让我们很难拥有私人时间。但是私人时间比以往任何时候都更重要。”
Much of the digital detoxing is centered on the home, where urgent e-mails from co-workers, texts from friends, Instagram photos from acquaintances and YOLO updates on Facebook conspire to upend domestic tranquillity.
戒断数码产品大都集中在家里，因为同事的紧急邮件、朋友的短信、熟人在Instagram上发布的照片以及Facebook上的更新会合力扰乱家里的平静。
A popular tactic is to designate a kind of cellphone lockbox, like the milk tin that Ms. Holley uses. “If my phone is buzzing or lighting up, it’s still a distraction, so it goes in the box,” said Ms. Holley, who lives in a row house in Red Hook, Brooklyn, with her son, Smith, and husband, John. “It’s not something I want my kid to see.”
一个常见的策略是给手机指定一个带锁的箱子，就像霍利用的那个牛奶罐。“如果手机嗡嗡作响或者闪光，它还是会让人分心，所以要把它放到箱子里，”霍利说。她和儿子史密斯、丈夫约翰住在布鲁克林红钩区的一动连排房子里。“我不想让孩子看见它。”
An empty fishbowl, which sits on a dining room credenza, serves a similar function for Jaime David, a publicist at the Starworks Group in New York, except there are consequences for violators. “If someone picks up the phone between 6:30 and 8:30 p.m. without a really good reason, they are tasked with getting our son to bed,” said Ms. David, who lives in Maplewood, N.J., with her husband, Jon, and two sons, Milo, 4, and Jack, 10 months.
杰米·戴维(Jaime David)是纽约星工厂集团(Starworks Group)的公关人员。她家餐厅书柜上的一个空鱼缸发挥着类似的作用，违反者要承担后果。“如果有人在不是非常必要的情况下，在晚上6:30至8:30拿起手机，那他/她就负责哄儿子睡觉，”戴维说。她和丈夫乔恩以及4岁的儿子米洛、10个月大的儿子杰克住在新泽西州的梅普尔伍德。
Others assign a digital curfew. “No screens after 11 p.m.,” said Ari Melber, a host of MSNBC’s “The Cycle,” who lives in a walk-up apartment in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, with his fiancée, Drew Grant, a pop culture reporter at The New York Observer. The rule was instituted in January, after a vacation in Honduras where the couple found themselves without Internet access and ultimately happy about it.
还有些人采取的办法是设定数码宵禁。“晚上11点以后不能使用任何带屏幕的东西，”阿里·梅尔伯(Ari Melber)说。他是MSNBC电视台《循环》(The Cycle)节目的主持人，他和未婚妻德鲁·格兰特(Drew Grant)住在布鲁克林卡罗尔花园的无电梯公寓里。格兰特是《纽约观察报》的流行文化记者。这条规矩是今年1月份他们去洪都拉斯度假之后设立的——在洪都拉斯他们发现自己上不了网，却为此感到非常快乐。
“We found the evenings were more relaxing, and we were sleeping better,” Mr. Melber said.
“我们发现那些夜晚更放松，睡得更香，”梅尔伯说。
Sleep is a big factor, which is why some, like Mr. Jacobs, draw the gadget-free line at the bedroom. “I don’t want to sleep next to something that is a charged ball of information with photos and e-mails,” said Peter Som, the fashion designer, who keeps his phone plugged in in the living room overnight. “It definitely is a head-clearer and delineates daytime and sleep time.”
睡觉是个重要的因素，也是像雅可布这样的人禁止带手机进卧室的原因。“我不想在睡觉的时候，旁边有一个充电的信息球，里面装着照片和邮件，”时装设计师邓志明(Peter Som)说。晚上他总是把手机放在客厅充电。“这肯定能让你头脑清净，能把白天和睡觉时间区分开。”
Households with young children are especially mindful about being overconnected, with parents sensitive to how children may imitate bad habits.
有小孩的家庭尤其留意不与外界保持过度联系，因为父母们不想让孩子们模仿坏习惯。
Rebecca Minkoff, a fashion designer, makes a point of turning off the ringers and leaving her two phones on the opposite end of her Dumbo apartment when she plays with her 2-year-old son, Luca. “It isn’t easy, but I do my best to make the few hours I have with my son cellphone-free until he goes to sleep,” Ms. Minkoff said.
时装设计师丽贝卡·明可弗(Rebecca Minkoff)特别注意在陪两岁的儿子卢卡玩耍时，把她的两个手机静音，然后放到自己位于Dumbo区的公寓的另一头。“那不容易做到，但是在陪儿子玩耍的几个小时里我尽量不用手机，一直到他睡觉，”明可弗说。
Other parents regard dinnertime as sacrosanct. “It’s a nice break for me when all of us can unplug,” said Josh Pickard, an owner of the restaurants Locanda Verde, Lafayette and the Dutch, who forbids his two teenage children, Lotte, 17, and Jack, 13, from bringing their multiple devices to the dinner table. “ I can just be in one place in one moment.”
还有些父母认为用餐时间是神圣不可侵犯的。“我们所有人都不用手机的时间对我来说是很好的休息，”乔什·皮卡德(Josh Pickard)说。他是Locanda Verde、Lafayette和Dutch三家餐馆的老板，他禁止自己的两个孩子——17岁的洛特和13岁的杰克——把任何通讯设备带到餐桌上。“我一个时间只能在一个地方。”
But it’s not just inside the home where users are weaning themselves from the habit. Cellphone overusers are making efforts to disconnect in social settings, whether at the behest of the host or in the form of friendly competition.
但是手机用户们不只是在家里尽量戒掉这个习惯，他们在社交场合也努力断线，不管是因为主人的命令，还是采用友好竞争的方式。
The phone-stack game is a lighthearted way for friends to police against boorish behavior when eating out. The game gained popularity last year after Brian Perez, a dancer in Los Angeles, posted the idea on his Tumblr page. It has since spawned numerous blog posts and an entry on Urban Dictionary, and is searchable as the hashtag #phonestack on Instagram (though not during dinner, of course).
手机堆游戏是朋友们外出用餐时约束粗鲁行为的一种轻松的方法。去年洛杉矶舞蹈演员布莱恩·佩雷斯(Brian Perez)在他的Tumblr网页上发布这个想法之后，它就流行起来了。从那以后，无数博客文章在谈论它，城市词典(Urban Dictionary)把它列入词条，在Instagram上用#phonestack这个标签可以搜索到关于它的照片（当然，不要在用餐时搜索）。
Of course, one could simply not bring a phone into the restaurant in the first place.
当然，去餐馆时，你可以干脆不带手机。
Scott Stratten, the author of “UnMarketing,” a book about engaging consumers via social media, leaves his phone in the car whenever he goes out to eat with his 12-year-old son, Owen. “He has full authority to tell me to put it away during any ‘us’ time,” Mr. Stratten said.
斯科特·斯特拉登(Scott Stratten)是《反市场营销》(UnMarketing)一书的作者，这本书讲的是通过社交媒体吸引消费者。每次跟12岁的儿子欧文出去吃饭，他总是把手机放在车里。“他有绝对的权威要求我在‘我们’共处的时候把手机放到一边，”斯特拉登说。
To keep guests from texting under the table, some party hosts are banning devices outright.
为了防止客人们在餐桌下面发短信，有些派对主人禁止客人携带任何通讯设备。
Peter Davis, the editor of Scene magazine, recently attended a dinner party for about 12 at a West Village home where the host offered to check guests’ phones and put them in a bowl. While most balked, Mr. Davis said that guests did manage to stay off their phones during the dinner.
《Scene》杂志的编辑彼得·戴维斯(Peter Davis)最近在西村的一个家中参加一个大约有12人的晚宴，主人要求客人们把手机都放在一个碗里。戴维斯说，虽然大部分人有点犹豫，但是大家在晚餐时间都没有碰手机。
“It was a hint not to be on your phone,” he said. “Unless you work in the E.R. or you’re a doctor on call, no one really needs to be on their phone.”
“这是在提醒我们不要被手机绑住，”他说，“除非你在急诊室工作，或者你是个待命医生，没人真的需要随时接电话。”
Bans on digital devices seem to be more strictly enforced when a famous person is in attendance, and the host wants to keep a private moment from becoming public fodder on Facebook or YouTube.
当有名人在场时，禁用通讯设备似乎得到了更严格的执行，主人想拥有一段私人时光，不想成为Facebook或YouTube上的公共话题素材。
Guests invited to Hamish Bowles’s birthday party in June, hosted by Anna Wintour in her Mastic, N.Y., weekend home, received a call from Ms. Wintour’s office asking them to refrain from posting messages on Twitter or Instagram about the party. And when Anderson Cooper held a birthday party in May at Eastern Bloc in the East Village, the invitation reportedly said “no cameras, no plus ones.”
今年6月份，安娜·温图尔(Anna Wintour)在她纽约马斯蒂克的周末公寓里为哈米什·博尔斯(Hamish Bowles)举办生日派对。客人们接到温图尔办公室的电话，要求他们不要在Twitter或Instagram上发布跟派对有关的消息。据说安德森·库珀(Anderson Cooper)5月份在东村的东方集团(Eastern Bloc)举办生日派对时，邀请函上写着“不要拍照，不要带同伴”。
Mindy Weiss, a party planner in New York and Los Angeles who specializes in celebrity events, said cellphone bans are becoming a new normal “on the high-profile end.” She advises hosts to explain the cellphone rules in the invitation, have clear signs at the party and, when possible, carve out a special area for important calls — like a smoking area for those who need to check in with the baby sitter.
明迪·维斯(Mindy Weiss)是纽约和洛杉矶的一位派对策划人，专门为名人组织活动。她说禁止带手机正变成一个“高端的”新规矩。她建议主人们在发邀请时就说明使用手机的规矩，在派对上贴出明确的警示语，可能的话，划出一个类似吸烟区的特殊区域，专门用来接打重要电话，比如可以给保姆打电话确认孩子是否安好。
Bronson van Wyck, a party planner in New York, fights technology with technology. “There are ways to make a venue a cellphone- and social-media-free zone,” he said, though he wouldn’t specify his exact methods.
布朗森·范威克(Bronson van Wyck)是纽约的一个派对策划人，他用科技来对付科技。他说“有一些办法可以让这个场所无法使用手机或社交媒体”，但是他没有具体说明是哪些办法。
But maybe the best way to curb cellphone overuse is by preying on people’s social insecurities. In some circles, being inaccessible is a status symbol.
但是也许扼制过度使用手机的最佳办法是利用人们对社会地位的不安全感。在某些领域，联系不上是一种身份象征。
“Public cellphone use has reached an uncivilized fever pitch, so now it’s chicer behavior to exempt yourself from that,” Ms. Blume said. “You’re not answerable 24/7, and that’s a powerful and luxurious statement.”
“在公共场合使用手机已经成了一种不文明的狂热行为，所以现在使自己免受这种束缚成了一种更时髦的行为，”布卢姆说，“你不是每天24小时都能接电话，那是一个有力而奢侈的声明。”