TOKYO — Traditionally, Japanese bow when greeting others. They do not tend to shake hands. But millions of them have started shaking their smartphones.
东京——传统上，日本人会用鞠躬的方式打招呼。他们往往不会握手。但数百万的日本人已经开始握住手机并摇动它。
They do it to activate Line, a two-year-old messaging application that lets people exchange information, send silly stickers and play games with their friends. It already has 230 million registered users — a milestone that Facebook did not reach until it was five years old.
他们这样做是为了激活连我(Line)软件，这款已经推出两年的通讯应用程序可以让人们交换信息，发送傻乎乎的贴图，与朋友们玩游戏。连我已经拥有2.3亿注册用户，而Facebook推出五年后才达到这个里程碑。
And it has not even penetrated the United States yet. Most Americans have never heard of its parent company, NHN Corporation, of South Korea.
而且它甚至还没开始渗透到美国市场里。大多数美国人都没听说过其母公司——韩国的NHN公司(NHN Corporation)。
But hundreds of millions of smartphone users in Asia and patches of Europe and Latin America are spurning Facebook or Twitter, preferring instead to use Line to tell their friends about a new job, boyfriend or breakfast cereal. Now Line, not content with being the latest “big in Japan” craze, wants to transform itself into something bigger — the first global Internet company from Asia.
但在亚洲及欧洲和拉丁美洲部分地区，有数亿智能手机用户正在抛弃Facebook或Twitter，倾向于用“连我”告知朋友们有关新工作、男朋友或早餐麦片粥的情况。如今，连我并不满足于最近风靡一时、“在日本走红”的境况，想要变身为更了不起的公司——第一家来自亚洲的全球网络公司。
“We would like to turn Line into a common language for the world,” said Akira Morikawa, chief executive of Line. “Our plan is to become the No. 1 online service.”
“我们想要将连我打造成全世界的通用语言，”连我首席执行官森川亮(Akira Morikawa)说。“我们的计划是成为最大的在线服务公司。”
Bigger than Facebook? Bigger than Google? Yes, Mr. Morikawa said, in an interview at the company’s headquarters on the 27th floor of an office tower overlooking the chaos of Shibuya Crossing, reputedly the busiest pedestrian intersection in the world.
比Facebook的规模还大？比谷歌(Google)还大？森川亮在位于办公大楼27层的公司总部接受采访时表示，答案是肯定的。身处这座办公大楼能够俯瞰涩谷十字路口的混乱景象，据说那是世界上最繁忙的十字路口。
Mr. Morikawa’s claims might sound like boastfulness, the pipe dream of any upstart hoping to be the industry’s next big thing. But the company’s growth is impressive, even if it still has only a small fraction of Facebook’s billion-member network of users.
森川亮的言论或许听起来有些自负，任何新贵都有这种幻想，希望成为业界的明日之星。但该公司的增长给人留下了深刻印象，尽管用户数量和拥有10亿用户的Facebook比起来不算什么。
American Internet giants may dominate social media, but Line has a critical advantage, Mr. Morikawa said. Unlike Facebook, Twitter, Zynga and even Google Plus, Line was originally conceived and created for smartphones, which already account for most of growth in Internet users. So the company does not have to wrestle with designing software that can leap from desktop computers to mobile devices.
森川亮表示，美国网络巨头可能主宰了社交媒体，但连我拥有一个重要优势。与Facebook、Twitter、Zynga，甚至Google Plus不同，连我最初就是为智能手机设计和创造的，而智能手机是网络用户增多的主要原因。因此，该公司不必费力设计能够从台式电脑移植到移动设备上的软件。
Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, need only ask his sister Randi about it. She wrote in a blog post after visiting Tokyo this year that “all the cool kids are using Line.”
这事Facebook首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)只需要问问姐姐兰迪(Randi)就够了。兰迪今年到访日本后发表博客称，“那些时髦的孩子都在用连我。”
Noriko Suzuki, a 22-year-old office worker in Tokyo, said she feels that way. She said she sent about 50 messages a day via Line — including reports on her summer vacation, plans for an evening out and pictures of her lunch.
22岁的铃木纪子(Noriko Suzuki)是在东京工作的上班族，她称自己也有这种感觉。她表示，自己每天通过连我发送大约50条信息，内容包括她夏日假期的活动，晚上外出的计划，以及午餐的图片。
Like other Line users, Ms. Suzuki often adds a digital “sticker,” a cartoon image that could be anything from an exuberant teddy bear to a grimacing rabbit. It communicates feelings hard to convey in a text message. “If I’m angry, happy or crying, there’s always a sticker,” she said.
与其他连我用户一样，铃木纪子通常会添加一个数字“贴图”——各式各样的卡通形象，可以是充满活力的泰迪熊，也可以是做鬼脸的兔子。这种“贴图”能够传达很难通过文字信息表达的感受。她说，“如果我很愤怒、开心或着哭了，我总会加上一个贴图。”
Some of the stickers feature Line’s own characters, including a bear named Brown and a rabbit named Cony, who engage in activities as varied as hugs and flatulence. Others show well-known cartoon figures like Hello Kitty or Marvel Comics heroes.
一些贴图是连我自创的角色人物，比如一只名叫“布朗”(Brown)的熊，以及一只名叫“可妮”(Cony)的兔子，它们搂搂抱抱、举止夸张，有着各种各样的动作。还有一些则使用了Hello Kitty、漫威漫画(Marvel Comics)英雄等知名卡通人物。
Line says its users send more than 1 billion stickers per day. Facebook has taken notice; recently it added a sticker function to its messaging application. So has the rest of Silicon Valley. A number of messaging start-ups, including Path, MessageMe and GroupMe, have added stickers in recent months.
连我表示，其用户每天发送超过10亿个贴图。Facebook已经注意到了这一点，该公司最近为其通讯应用程序添加了贴图功能。硅谷的其他公司也纷纷效仿。Path、 MessageMe、GroupMe等很多通讯软件创业公司都在最近几个月增添了贴图。
“If any app can make a giant like Facebook rethink their strategy, then that is the surest sign of the potential power of these services,” said Neha Dharia, an analyst at Ovum, a telecommunications research firm. Ovum estimates that messaging apps will cost telecommunications companies more than $32 billion in lost revenue worldwide this year.
“如果一个应用可以让Facebook这样的巨无霸重新思考战略，那就有力地说明了这些服务的巨大潜能，”电信研究机构Ovum的分析师内哈·达利亚(Neha Dharia)说。Ovum估计短信类应用今年将令全球的电信公司损失超过320亿美元的收入。
The stickers may seem silly, but they were the first step in Line’s plan to expand beyond cheap communications and turn itself into a broader media and entertainment platform. Many other companies’ mobile applications, messaging and beyond, have yet to generate any revenue in the United States. Line gives some stickers away; others cost 170 yen (about $1.70) for a pack of 40. Sticker sales alone make about $10 million a month in revenue, Line says.
贴图看上去也许有些傻乎乎的，但连我在打算冲出廉价通讯领域，将自身转变为一种覆盖面更广泛的媒体和娱乐平台，这些贴图就是迈出的第一步。其他许多公司的移动应用、信息服务等等，在美国还没有产生任何收入。连我的贴图有些是免费的；还有一些以每套170日元（约合人民币10元）的价格出售，一套包含40张贴图。连我称单是贴图每个月就可以卖出1000万美元。
The risk for Line is that what appeals to Japanese and Koreans could be lost in translation in the United States. The service appeals to the Japanese love of all things “kawaii,” or cute. Even emoji, the cute little faces and other images that are a staple of cellphone communication in Asia, are just beginning to catch on in the United States.
连我的风险在于，有些东西对日本和韩国人有吸引力，但转介到美国可能就没有了。该服务迎合了日本人对一切“卡哇伊”或可爱的东西的热爱。颜文字这种包含可爱的面部表情和其他图像的图标，是亚洲手机通讯中的一项重要内容，但在美国只是刚刚开始流行起来。
“It feels foreign, but it feels fun,” said Catherine Boyle, an analyst at eMarketer, a research firm. “It’s definitely not American, but people can get over that.”
“感觉是外国的东西，但是很好玩，”研究公司eMarketer分析师凯瑟琳·博伊尔(Catherine Boyle)说。“它绝对不是美国的东西，但人们可以克服这一点。”
Line is installed on 71 percent of iPhones in Japan, according to Onavo, a mobile measurement firm, but is on only 1 percent in the United States. By contrast, Facebook Messenger has been installed on 12 percent of American iPhones and WhatsApp, a Silicon Valley-based chat application, on 9 percent.
据移动统计公司Onavo的数据，日本有71%的iPhone安装了连我，但在美国只有1%。相比之下，美国人的iPhone有12%安装了Facebook Messenger，9%安装了来自硅谷的聊天应用WhatsApp。
Line executives say there is significant opportunity for growth, given that no single messaging app has gained dominance in the United States. They say they are negotiating with American pop stars, though they declined to provide names, who will be paid to use it and presumably spur others to follow suit.
连我公司高层说，还没有哪个短信应用在美国形成绝对优势，所以这个领域有着巨大的增长潜力。他们说公司正在和美国的流行明星洽谈，打算花钱请他们使用，以吸引其他人跟进，不过他们拒绝透露具体是哪些明星。
Last year, Line hired Jeanie Han, a former executive at Paramount Pictures, to oversee its American introduction, and to run its European and Latin American operations.
去年连我聘用了前派拉蒙影业公司(Paramount Pictures)高管珍妮·韩(Jeanie Han)负责在美国的推广以及在欧洲和拉美的运营。
Ms. Han pointed to Line’s growth in Spain as a model. There, more than 40 percent of iPhone users have installed Line, according to Onavo. Now, the company is using its foothold in Spain to try to expand in Latin America and other European countries. Last week, Line announced a deal with the soccer team FC Barcelona to sell stickers featuring star players.
珍妮·韩将连我在西班牙的增长立为榜样。据Onavo说，那里有40%以上的iPhone用户安装了连我。现在公司正在以西班牙为据点，尝试向拉丁美洲以及其他欧洲国家扩张。上周连我宣布和巴塞罗那足球俱乐部签约，出售以该队明星球员的形象制作的贴图。
Line executives say they hope to capitalize on growing concerns about privacy among Internet users. Line does not ask users for full names; a pseudonym suffices. Line communications take place in private, in contrast to the more open postings that characterize social networking services.
互联网用户对隐私的担忧正在日益加剧，连我高管称他们希望从这种趋势中获利。连我不需要用户提供全名；给一个假名就够了。连我的通讯是私密的，和社交网络服务中典型的那种更为开放的发帖截然不同。
While American Internet companies like Google and Facebook comb through user data and communications to tailor advertising, Line executives said they had no plans to do so. Line has restricted ads to opt-in campaigns by companies like SoftBank, a Japanese mobile network, and McDonald’s, which have used Line to offer coupons and other promotions.
像谷歌和Facebook这样的美国互联网公司通过对用户数据和通信的分析来定制广告。而连我的高管说，到目前为止，他们没有这种打算。连我把广告限制在一些自愿参加的推广活动，由日本移动网络公司软银(SoftBank)这样的公司发起，麦当劳则使用连我来分发优惠劵以及进行其他宣传活动。
“We don’t want services that make users feel uncomfortable,” Mr. Morikawa, Line’s chief, said. “We want to focus on giving them a meaningful experience.”
“我们不想做那些让用户不爽的服务，”连我首席执行官森川亮说。“我们想全心全意地给他们一种有意义的体验。”
Especially if it arrives with a flatulent bunny named Cony.
尤其是要有那只举止夸张的兔子可妮。