MOSCOW — Twin terrorist attacks in the city of Volgograd within 24 hours injected new urgency on Monday into Russia’s long, ruthless effort to contain a diffuse Islamic insurgency on its southern border, one nominally led by a veteran, battle-scarred Chechen often called Russia’s Osama bin Laden.
莫斯科——长期以来，俄罗斯一直在以残酷无情的举措压制在南部边境不断扩散的伊斯兰叛乱活动。周一，伏尔加格勒市24小时内发生的两起恐怖袭击事件使这些举措变得更加紧迫。这些叛乱活动名义上是由一个经验丰富、饱尝战火的车臣分子领导，此人经常被称为俄罗斯的奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)。
The attacks, coming only six weeks before the opening of the Olympics only 400 miles away, sowed panic across the country. On Monday morning, a suicide bomber gutted a crowded electric trolley bus in Volgograd, killing at least 15 people and wounding dozens more. The bomb exploded during the morning rush hour on a street only a little more than a mile and half from the city’s main railroad station, where a similar attack killed at least 17 on Sunday.
袭击事件发生的时间离冬奥会开幕只有六周，发生地点距离奥运会场馆也只有400英里（约合644公里），这在全国范围内引发了恐慌。周一早晨，一名自杀式炸弹袭击者在伏尔加格勒炸毁了一辆拥挤的无轨电车，造成至少15人死亡，数十人受伤。炸弹于早高峰时段在距离该市主火车站只有1.5英里多一点的大街上爆炸，周日，该火车站发生了一起类似的恐怖袭击事件，至少导致17人死亡。
The investigation into the bombings is just getting underway, but the attention of the Russian security services is already focused on the republic of Dagestan, which has become the hub of Muslim separatist violence in recent years, and on connections to the insurgent leader, Doku Umarov. He is a mysterious, almost mythical figure who fought in both wars in Chechnya, which began nearly two decades ago and have since come to symbolize the radicalization of a movement that began as a struggle for independence. 
针对爆炸事件的调查刚刚开始，但俄罗斯安保部门已经将注意力集中在了达吉斯坦共和国，以及此事与叛乱组织领袖多库·乌马罗夫(Doku Umarov)的关联。达吉斯坦最近几年已经成为穆斯林分裂主义暴力活动的中心，乌马罗夫则是一个近于神话的神秘人物，参与了两次车臣战争。车臣战争爆发于将近20年前，现已成为独立运动走向激进化的象征。
Mr. Umarov’s influence had seemed to be waning in recent years, until he surfaced in a video in July, ordering his followers to do whatever was possible to attack Russia as it prepared to be the host of the Winter Olympics in Sochi. Although no one has claimed responsibility for the attacks in Volgograd, Mr. Umarov’s threats, largely ignored at the time, suddenly seemed ominous, chillingly citing Russia’s transportation networks as potential targets.
最近几年，乌马罗夫的影响力似乎有所减弱，今年7月，他却在一段视频中现身，要求其追随者趁俄罗斯为举办索契冬奥会做准备的时候，尽一切可能开展袭击行动。他声称要将俄罗斯的交通网络当作潜在目标，令人不寒而栗。在当时，几乎无人理会他的威胁，到了现在，虽然没人声称为伏尔加格勒的袭击事件负责，他那时的威胁却突然显得十分不祥。
Now, experts say, the question is whether the suicide bombings in Volgograd and one previous attack there are the first volleys in Mr. Umarov’s promised campaign to disrupt the Olympic Games and discredit the government of President Vladimir V. Putin.
专家表示，现在的问题在于，发生在伏尔加格勒的这两起自杀式爆炸袭击与之前的一起袭击是否是乌马罗夫发起的第一轮行动。乌马罗夫誓称要以袭击破坏奥运会，损害由弗拉基米尔·V·普京总统(Vladimir V. Putin)领导的政府的信誉。
“The big question is will there be this sort of wave,” said Gordon M. Hahn, a senior associate with the Center of Strategic and International Studies who has written extensively on Islamic terror groups in the Caucasus. “This is already a pretty high level — the fact that they pulled off three suicide bombings in Volgograd in two months. If their idea is to build up a crescendo, they have to take it easy because they’ll have to do something really big.”
“最大的问题在于是否会出现这样的袭击浪潮，”战略与国际研究中心(Center of Strategic and International Studies)高级研究员戈登·M·哈恩(Gordon M. Hahn)说。“这已经达到了非常高的级别——仅仅两个月的时间，他们就在伏尔加格勒发动了三次自杀式爆炸袭击。如果他们计划逐渐加强袭击力度，那就需要沉住气，因为他们必须干出真正的大事。”哈恩写了很多有关高加索地区伊斯兰恐怖组织的文章。
The attacks prompted false reports of other bombings in Volgograd and the brief evacuation of Red Square here in Moscow after a woman left a package or bag near St. Basil’s Cathedral. They also called into question Russia’s preparedness for an international sporting event that Mr. Putin and others intend to be a showcase of the country’s revival since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
袭击事件引发了一些虚假报道，称伏尔加格勒还发生了其他的爆炸事件，还让莫斯科的红场(Red Square)进行了短暂的疏散，就因为一名女性在圣巴索大教堂(St. Basil’s Cathedral)附近留下了一个包裹或袋子。此外，袭击事件使人们对俄罗斯为举办这次国际体育赛事所做的准备产生了怀疑，普京和其他一些人计划通过该赛事来展示本国自苏联解体以来的复兴成果。
Mr. Putin, who has made no public remarks since the first attack, ordered the tightening of security across the country after holding a series of meetings with government and security officials, according to the Kremlin. He dispatched the director of the Federal Security Service, Aleksandr V. Bortnikov, to Volgograd to oversee the investigation and enhanced security measures.
自第一起袭击事件发生以来，普京尚未发表公开讲话。据克里姆林宫透露，在与政府及安全官员举行一系列会议后，他下令加强全国范围内的安保工作。普京已将俄罗斯联邦安全局(Federal Security Service)局长亚历山大·V·博尔特尼科夫(Aleksandr V. Bortnikov)派往伏尔加格勒，在监督调查工作的同时加强安全举措。
“I think we will be able to solve these crimes, particularly because we have some clues,” Mr. Bortnikov said after arriving there, without elaborating on the trail of evidence investigators were pursuing. He said that additional security had been deployed at public places, including the city’s transportation and energy facilities. At the same time, security officials in the city launched a security sweep that detained at least 12 people.
“我认为我们能够侦破这些罪案，更何况，我们已经掌握了一些线索，”博尔特尼科夫在到达当地后说。他并没有详细讲述，调查人员正在根据什么证据进行追查。他说，包括交通和能源设施在内的公共场所已经部署了额外的安全措施。同时，该市安全官员还发动了大规模的安全检查，至少已有12人被拘。
Vladimir I. Markin, a spokesman for the main national criminal investigation agency in Russia, the Investigative Committee, said a man carried out the second attack, detonating a bomb with more than eight pounds of explosives on trolley bus No. 15, which witnesses said was full of morning commuters. In a statement, Mr. Markin said the bombs used in both attacks were similar, packed with shrapnel to make them more lethal. He cited that as evidence that the two attacks were connected. “It’s possible they were prepared in one place,” he said of the bombs.
俄罗斯主要全国性刑事调查机构调查委员会(Investigative Committee)的发言人弗拉基米尔·I·马尔金(Vladimir I. Markin)说，第二起袭击是由一名男子实施的，此人在15路无轨电车上引爆了一枚包含逾8磅（约合3.6千克）炸药的炸弹。目击者称，车上坐满了乘客。马尔金在一份声明中称，两起袭击中的炸弹很相似，里面都填充了弹片，这样可以增加炸弹的致命性。他认为，这种情况可以证明两次袭击之间是有联系的。他在提到炸弹时说，“这些炸弹可能是在同一个地方制造的。”
Mr. Umarov has previously claimed responsibility for some of the most devastating suicide attacks in recent years, including ones that struck the Moscow subway system in 2010 and the city’s Domodedovo Airport in 2011. Neither he nor his organization have claimed responsibility for the Volgograd bombings.
乌马罗夫此前曾宣称对近年来最具破坏性的几次自杀式袭击负责，其中包括2010年对莫斯科地铁系统的袭击，以及2011年对莫斯科多莫杰多沃机场(Domodedovo Airport)的袭击。但是，他和他的组织都未表示对伏尔加格勒的炸弹袭击负责。
Mr. Umarov was crushed after the second war in Chechnya by Mr. Putin’s defiant refusal to negotiate with fighters he dismissed as terrorists. In response, he repurposed himself as a proponent of global jihad, declaring himself the tactical and inspirational leader of a Caucasus Emirate that few people in the region embrace. Then, in July, he issued his manifesto on the Sochi Games.
第二次车臣战争结束之后，因为普京断然拒绝与被他称为恐怖分子的武装分子谈判，乌马罗夫深受打击。为了回应普京的强硬态度，他把自己重新定义为全球圣战的支持者，自称为高加索酋长国(Caucasus Emirate)的战术和精神领袖，该地区极少有人认同这个组织。随后，他于今年7月发布了针对索契冬奥会的宣言。
Russia’s Foreign Ministry issued a statement on Monday denouncing “provocative appeals” by terrorists like Mr. Umarov, while blaming unspecified politicians and others around the world for “flirting” with them. Mr. Umarov and his group have been declared terrorists by the United Nations and, since 2011, the State Department has offered a reward of $5 million for information leading to his arrest.
周一，俄罗斯外交部发表声明谴责了乌马罗夫等恐怖分子的“挑衅诉求”，同时不点名地指责世界各地的一些政治人士和其他人等与他们“打情骂俏”。联合国(United Nations)已经将乌马罗夫和他的组织定性为恐怖分子，自2011年以来，美国国务院(State Department)已悬赏500万美元（约合3031万元人民币）来交换抓捕他的线报。
The president of the International Olympic Committee, Thomas Bach, released a statement on Monday condemning the attacks but expressing confidence that Russia would adequately secure the Sochi Games. “I am certain that everything will be done to ensure the security of the athletes and all the participants of the Olympic Games,” he said.
周一，国际奥委会(International Olympic Committee)主席托马斯·巴赫(Thomas Bach)发表声明对袭击事件进行了谴责，同时又表示，他相信俄罗斯能为索契冬奥会提供良好的安全保障。他说，“我确信俄罗斯将尽全力保证奥运选手和所有参与者的安全。”
Aleksandr D. Zhukov, the president of Russia’s Olympic Committee and the first deputy speaker of Parliament, said that all necessary security measures had been taken to protect athletes and visitors in Sochi. “No additional security measures will be taken in Sochi in light of the terrorist attack,” he said, according to the Interfax news agency. “Everything necessary has been done.”
俄罗斯奥委会主席、议会第一副议长亚历山大·D·茹科夫(Aleksandr D. Zhukov)说，俄罗斯已经采取了一切的必要安全措施，以保证索契选手和游客的安全。据俄罗斯国际文传电讯社(Interfax news agency)报道，他表示，“虽然发生了恐怖袭击，但我们不会采取额外的安全措施。我们已经采取了一切的必要措施。”
His remarks did not address the threat outside of Sochi, however. With security already heavily tightened there, experts have warned that those who want to disrupt the Olympics might turn instead to “softer” targets elsewhere.
然而，他的发言并没有提到索契之外的威胁。鉴于索契的安保措施十分严密，专家警告称，那些意图破坏奥运会的人可能会去其他地方寻找“比较容易得手”的目标。
For a time, Mr. Umarov’s group observed a sort of cease-fire that he attributed to the public protests that followed Mr. Putin’s return to the presidency in 2012. With those protests having largely fizzled out, Mr. Umarov declared his new wave of terror.
乌马罗夫的组织一度保持了某种停火状态，乌马罗夫认为，这还要感谢2012年普京再任总统之后的公众抗议。随着抗议活动基本以失败告终，乌马罗夫便宣布了新一轮的恐怖袭击。