Donald Trump’s support among white men, the linchpin of his presidential campaign, is showing surprising signs of weakness that could foreclose his only remaining path to victory in November.
白人男性是唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)总统竞选的关键，但多个令人意外的迹象表明，他在这个群体中支持率不振。这可能会葬送他剩下的唯一一条通往11月胜利的道路。
If not reversed, the trend could materialize into one of the most unanticipated developments of the 2016 presidential campaign: That Hillary Clinton, the first woman at the head a major party ticket and a divisive figure unpopular with many men, ends up narrowing the gender gap that has been a constant of American presidential elections for decades.
如果得不到逆转，在2016年大选期间，这种趋势可能会发展成最令人始料未及的情形之一：首位代表主要政党出战的女性、获两极评价并在众多男性中不得人心的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)，最终却会缩小投票上的性别差异。几十年来，性别差异一直是美国大选不变的议题。
Surveys of voters nationwide and in battleground states conducted over the past two weeks showed Trump was even with or below where Mitt Romney, the Republican Party nominee four years ago, was with white men when he won that demographic by an overwhelming 27 percentage points.
过去两周，在全美和关键州对选民进行的调查表明，特朗普在白人男性中的支持率，与四年前共和党提名人选米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)持平，或者不及后者。罗姆尼当时以27个百分点的巨大优势，赢得了这个群体的支持。
For Trump, who has staked much of his legitimacy as a candidate on his strength in the polls, the numbers are a dose of cold, dangerous math. If he does not perform any better than Romney did with white men, he will almost certainly be unable to rally the millions of disaffected white voters he says will propel him to the White House.
在很大程度上，特朗普把自己作为候选人的合理性赌在了民调中的强劲表现上。对他来说，这些数字是一道冷冰冰的危险数学题。如果不能超过罗姆尼在白人男性中的表现，那么几乎可以肯定，他无法争取到成百上千万心怀不满的白人选民的支持。特朗普一直表示，这个群体会把他推向白宫。
All along, one of the central questions of the election has been whether there are enough white men who will turn out to vote to lift Trump to victory. And there may be enough, demographers and pollsters said.
自始至终，此次选举的核心问题之一是，是否会有足够多的白人男性出来投票，把特朗普推向胜利。人口学家和民调专家表示，这是有可能的。
But for now it appears that after a ceaseless stream of provocations, insults and reckless remarks, Trump has damaged himself significantly with the one demographic that stands as a bulwark to a Clinton presidency.
但目前看来，经过不间断地挑衅、辱骂和鲁莽言论后，特朗普似乎严重破坏了自己在这个群体中的形象，而该群体正是阻止克林顿登上总统宝座的一座堡垒。
“If you set out to design a strategy to produce the lowest popular vote possible in the new American electorate of 2016, you would be hard-pressed to do a better job than Donald Trump has,” said Whit Ayres, a pollster who has advised Republican presidential and Senate candidates for more than 25 years. “This is an electoral disaster waiting to happen.”
“如果要设计一个策略，让2016年美国选民的普选投票率尽可能达到最低，那你很难超过唐纳德·特朗普在这方面的成就，”民调专家惠特·艾尔斯(Whit Ayres)说。在为共和党总统和参议员候选人提供咨询方面，他有着逾25年的经验。“这是一场等着上演的选举灾难。”
There are still nearly three months before Election Day, ample time to shift the dynamics of the race. But the question Republicans inside and outside the Trump campaign are asking is whether the damage Trump has caused himself during the last few weeks is irreparable.
离选举日还有近三个月，而这段时间足以改变选举格局。但特朗普竞选团队内外的共和党人正在提出的问题是，在过去几周，特朗普给自己造成的损害是否还能弥补。
Interviews with voters found that Trump’s increasingly outlandish behavior was rubbing many in his key voting bloc the wrong way.
对选民的采访显示，特朗普日益离谱的行为，在错误地惹恼其关键选民群体中的许多人。
“I liked Trump until he opened his mouth,” said Phil Kinney, a retired middle school administrator and a Republican from Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. The recent string of attacks Trump has unleashed, particularly his criticism of the family of a Muslim soldier killed in Iraq, left Kinney disappointed. Faced with the choice of voting for Trump or Clinton, Kinney said he may just stay home.
“在特朗普开口之前，我是喜欢他的，”来自宾夕法尼亚州伯利恒的共和党人、退休初中行政人员菲尔·金尼(Phil Kinney)说。特朗普最近发起的一系列攻击，尤其是对在伊拉克阵亡的一名穆斯林军人一家的指责，令金尼感到失望。面对投票给特朗普还是克林顿的抉择，金尼表示，他可能会索性待在家里。
Two national polls conducted this month have Clinton catching up to Trump among men overall. An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll shows Clinton with 43 percent support among men to his 42 percent. A Bloomberg Politics survey put Trump with a low-single-digit lead among men, according to the pollster who conducted the survey, Ann Selzer.
本月进行的两项全国性民意调查显示，克林顿在男性选民中的整体支持率赶上了特朗普。NBC新闻频道和《华尔街日报》(NBC News/Wall Street Journal)进行的联合民调显示，克林顿在男性选民中获得43%的支持率，特朗普为42%。在彭博政治(Bloomberg Politics)进行的调查中，组织者安·富尔泽(Ann Selzer)表示，特朗普在男性选民中只获得几个百分点的领先优势。
Romney relied on his 27-point edge among white men to carry the male vote overall, but Trump is even more reliant on them because of how poorly he performs with nonwhite voters. If Trump is only doing as well or worse than Romney did with white men, he will never make up the votes he is losing among women and nonwhites.
依靠自己在白人男性选民中27个点的领先优势，罗姆尼保持着自己在全体男性选民中的支持率，但特朗普要更加依赖这个群体，因为他在非白人选民中表现非常不好。如果特朗普在争取白人男性选民上和罗姆尼表现一样，或比他更糟，就永远也无法弥补自己在女性和非白人选民中损失的选票。
Trump’s troubles with white men do not end there. The data reveal a huge gap in those who have a college education and those who do not. As Trump saw in the Republican primaries, he is most vulnerable with white men who have a college education or higher. Romney won that group, which votes at a higher rate than those without college degrees, by 21 points. Recent national polls have put Trump’s support with them far lower.
特朗普在白人男性选民上的问题不止于此。在接受过大学教育和没有受过此类教育的选民中，他的支持率数据差距非常之大。就像特朗普在共和党初选中看到的，在起码受过大学教育的白人男性选民中，特朗普的地位最不稳固。罗姆尼赢得了这一群体的支持，而该群体参与投票的比率，比没有大学学历的白人男性选民要高出21个点。最近的全国性民意调查显示，特朗普在该群体中的支持率要低得多。
“We’re looking at a margin among college-educated white men for him that’s less than half what Romney won,” said Gary Langer, an independent pollster who conducted an ABC News/Washington Post survey this month that showed Trump losing overall to Clinton. “And that is problematic for Trump given his need to appeal to whites.”
“我们看到，他在受过大学教育的白人男性选民中，支持率优势还不及罗姆尼当时的一半，”独立民调专家加里·朗格尔(Gary Langer)说。在他本月组织的ABC新闻频道和《华盛顿邮报》(ABC News/Washington Post)联合民调显示，特朗普整体上落后于克林顿。“这就有问题了，因为他需要吸引白人选民。”
Trump’s difficulties with men are symptoms of a larger vulnerability: disapproval that runs deeply through many segments and subgroups of the voting population.
特朗普在争取男性选民方面的困难，预示着其更大的弱点：在诸多选民群体和子群体中，普遍存在对他深深的不赞同情绪。
Self-identified Republicans, white women, the wealthy and well-educated people of all races are turning their backs on him. Two national polls have recently put his support from African-Americans at an astonishing 1 percent. Separate Wall Street Journal/NBC News/Marist surveys in Ohio and Pennsylvania from July found that zero percent of black voters said they planned to vote for him. The latest poll of Latinos, conducted within the past week by Fox News, had Trump with 20 percent support, below the 27 percent that Romney received in 2012.
自认为共和党人的选民：白人男性、有钱人、教育程度比较高的人，不论是何种族，都在拒绝他。最近进行的两项全国性民意调查显示，他在非裔美国人中的支持率低到令人难以置信的程度，只有1%。另一项由《华尔街日报》、NBC新闻频道和玛瑞斯学院从7月开始在俄亥俄州和宾夕法尼亚州进行的调查发现，打算投票给他的黑人选民比率为零。在过去一周内，针对拉丁裔进行的最新民调由Fox新闻频道(Fox News)进行，结果显示，特朗普在该群体中拥有20%的支持率，低于罗姆尼在2012年获得的27%。
Even under the rosiest projections of white turnout, Trump would still lose the popular vote if his poll numbers among whites do not improve considerably.
如果特朗普在白人选民中的民调数字没有明显的改观，那么就算按照最乐观的白人投票率预测，他也会在普选中失败。
William H. Frey, a demographics expert with the Brookings Institution, a nonpartisan think tank, conducted several simulations that tried to determine how much the turnout among white men without college educations would have to increase for Trump to win. He used the most recent ABC News/Washington Post poll of registered voters that had Clinton beating Trump in a nationwide two-way race, 50 to 42 percent. It was among the better polls for Trump lately.
威廉·H·弗雷(William H. Frey)是无党派智库布鲁金斯学会(Brookings Institution)的人口统计专家，他开展了若干次模拟测试，想要弄清如果特朗普要赢的话，没受过大学教育的白人男性投票率得增加多少。他参考了ABC新闻频道和《华盛顿邮报》刚刚联合开展的一项针对注册选民的民意调查。调查结果显示，在一场全国范围内的二人对决中，支持率为50%的克林顿击败了支持率为42%的特朗普。就近期而言，这是特朗普成绩较好的一场民调。
Frey tested different turnout assumptions, including improbably optimistic ones, like if 99 percent of white, non-college-educated men turned out to vote. None of the chain of events produced a Trump victory.
弗雷基于各种不同的投票率假设做了测试，其中一些假设极为乐观，基本不大可能成真，比如：没受过大学教育的白人男性的投票率达到99%。不论基于何种假设，都没出现特朗普获胜的测试结果。
In fact, even if virtually all of the white, non-college-educated men eligible to vote did so, Frey found, Clinton would still win the popular vote by 1.1 million.
弗雷基发现，事实上，即便是所有具有投票资格、没受过大学教育的白人男性基本上都去投票了，克林顿仍将以110万普选票的优势获胜。
And Frey said he did not account for the expected growth in Hispanic turnout. “Once you build that in,” he said, “it’s even worse for Trump.”
弗雷还说，他并未考虑西语裔选民投票率有望增加的因素。“一旦把那个因素考虑进来，”他说，“特朗普的状况就会更糟糕。”