BEIJING — Emergency measures came swiftly in Harbin, the northeastern city blanketed with hazardous smog this week: Schools were shut down, buses ordered off the roads, the airport closed, police roadblocks set up to check tailpipe emissions from cars. City officials even fanned out in the surrounding countryside, ordering farmers to stop burning the cornstalks left in their fields after the harvest.
北京——本周，中国东北城市哈尔滨因为被严重的雾霾笼罩而采取了一系列紧急措施：学校停课、公共汽车停驶、机场关闭，警察还设置路障来检查汽车的尾气排放。城市官员甚至分散到周边农村，禁止农民焚烧收获季节后地里留下的庄稼秆。
They were reacting to the first notable surge of air pollution in China this autumn. Residents across the nation’s north fear that the smog is a sign of things to come. With winter approaching, cities north of the Huai River are turning on their coal-fired municipal heating systems, whose emissions were found in one study to shorten residents’ life spans by an average of five years.
他们这是在应对中国今秋第一次明显加重的空气污染。中国北方居民担心，这场雾霾预示着即将出现的情况。随着冬日临近，淮河以北的城市即将开启市政供暖系统，由于供暖系统以煤炭为燃料，有研究表明，由此而来的废气将会使居民的寿命平均缩短五年。
In Harbin, still, moist air trapped the pollution at ground level, leaving people to walk through a gray miasma wearing face masks. Visibility was so bad that two buses got lost plying their routes.
在哈尔滨，停滞的潮湿空气使污染物聚集在地面，人们只好戴着口罩在灰色的雾霾中穿行。能见度非常低，两辆巴士甚至迷了路。
But the emergency measures showed that the government was trying to address the problem rather than merely cover it up, as it might have done in past years, some environmental activists said.
一些环保活动人士称，尽管如此，前述紧急措施表明政府正试图应对问题，而不是掩盖问题——如果是在过去几年，政府可能就会采取后一种做法。
Action plans in Harbin, Beijing and other cities, along with broad national policies meant to curb air pollution announced last month, signal that some officials are serious about tackling the chronic problem. On Thursday, the Ministry of Environmental Protection said it was sending inspection teams to cities across China for the winter to ensure that environmental regulations were enforced.
哈尔滨、北京以及其他城市的行动计划，加上上个月宣布的旨在遏制空气污染的宏观国家政策，都表明有些官员非常重视这个长期性的问题。中国环境保护部周四称，今年冬季将派检查组前往中国各地，确保环保政策能得到执行。
Awareness of various kinds of pollution — air, water and soil — has risen quickly this year, especially among middle-class urbanites. Chinese news media, including official state outlets, are reporting more aggressively on the causes and effects of pollution. An editorial in Beijing News on Wednesday took note that last week the World Health Organization had classified air pollution as a leading cause of cancer, and said that on days when the air is hazardous, “containing the pollution and protecting the health of residents is the highest priority.”
今年，人们对各种污染——空气、水和土壤——的意识迅速增强，这在中产阶级城市居民中尤其明显。包括官方媒体在内的中国媒体都增加了对污染成因和影响的报道力度。《新京报》周三的一篇社论指出，世界卫生组织已将空气污染列为导致癌症的主要原因之一，还表示当空气污染严重时，“控制污染、保护民众健康，就是最大的事”。
But the advocates say enforcement is often a weak point, even when leaders understand that cleaning up the environment has become critical to maintaining social and political stability.
但环保人士称，执行经常是个薄弱环节，即便领导者已经明白，对维持社会和政治稳定来说，净化环境已经变得非常重要。
“I give credit to the local government for taking these measures,” Ma Jun, an environmental advocate, said of the emergency actions in Harbin. “Of course, they will have some problem with their image, the city’s image — but on the other hand, it shows they put people’s health ahead of saving face.
“我认为，当地政府采取这些措施是值得赞扬的，”环保人士马军在提到哈尔滨的紧急措施时说。“当然，他们的形象和城市形象会受到影响——但从另一方面来看，这表明他们认为民众的健康比面子重要。”
“Having said that, I think it’s not enough,” he added. “I think people won’t be satisfied with just knowing which day to put on face masks or not go to school or keep their children indoors. They really want blue-sky days.”
“话虽如此，我认为这还不够，”他补充说。“我想人们不会只满足于知道哪天要带口罩，哪天不要去上学或是不让孩子出门。他们想要的其实是蓝天。”
Under pressure from the public, Beijing in 2012 became the first Chinese city to announce levels of an especially hazardous category of particulate matter, known as PM 2.5, in the air. Since then, 113 other cities have followed suit. The data can be seen online in real time, which was how much of China followed the crisis in Harbin.
迫于公众压力，北京在2012年成为中国第一个公布空气中危害较大的颗粒物的水平的城市，也就是PM2.5水平。此后，其他113个城市相继开始公布PM2.5水平。人们可以在网上查看实时数据，可以看到中国有多少地方面临像哈尔滨一样的危机。
On Monday and Tuesday, air-quality monitoring stations in some parts of the city reported PM 2.5 concentrations that exceeded 1,000 micrograms per cubic meter — 40 times the level deemed safe by the W.H.O.
周一和周二两天，哈尔滨部分地方的空气质量监测站报称，PM2.5浓度超过了1000微克/立方米，达到世界卫生组织规定的安全标准的40倍。
Since 2007, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has published an annual list of high-polluting industrial plants around China. The latest identifies 4,189 factories that, together, release 65 percent of the China’s total industrial air pollutants. “We need to know where they are, what kinds of pollutants they discharge, the volume and whether they are in compliance with discharge standards,” Mr. Ma said, adding that local governments gather that data but do not release it.
中国环境保护部自2007年开始公布中国各地高污染工厂的年度名单。最新的名单显示，中国工业空气污染物总量当中的65%出自4189家工厂。马俊说，“我们需要知道这些工厂在哪里，排放的是哪种污染物，排放量，以及是否符合排放标准。”他还表示，地方政府收集了这些数据，但却没有公布。
Advocates hope that identifying the polluters publicly will help to shame them into improving, Mr. Ma said, with pressure coming from “whoever invests in the polluting factories, the banks giving them loans, the brands that source from these polluters.”
马军表示，倡导人士希望，由于“污染工厂的投资者，为污染工厂提供贷款的银行，以及从污染工厂采购的品牌”的压力，公布污染源将有助于使它们感到羞愧，进而做出改进。
The central government is apparently stepping up pressure as well. One goal of the national plan announced last month was to reduce the concentration of PM 2.5 in three heavily populated industrial regions by 15 to 25 percent, compared with 2012 levels. Prime Minister Li Keqiang said last month that the cities of Beijing and Tianjin and the province of Hebei, all in northern China, would cut down their use of coal, the main source of air pollution, by 80 million tons a year in the near future.
显而易见，中央政府正在提高施压力度。上个月公布的国家规划的目标之一是将三个重污染工业区的PM2.5浓度较2012年水平降低15%至25%。中国总理李克强上个月表示，中国北部的北京、天津及河北省会在不久之后将每年的用煤量减少8000万吨，煤是空气污染的主要来源。
Still, environmentalists worry that growth-minded local officials and businesses will be reluctant to go along. “Chinese leaders have produced an impressive flurry of policies on air pollution this year, but regulators still suffer from insufficient authority; rapid economic growth means that a steady stream of pollution sources come on line every day; and vested business interests are sure to scream bloody murder every step of the way,” Alex L. Wang, a scholar of Chinese environmental policy and a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, said in an e-mail.
环保主义者仍然担心，追求经济增长的地方官员和商人不愿支持这方面的工作。研究中国环境政策的加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)法学教授亚历克斯·L·王(Alex L. Wang)在邮件中表示， “中国领导人今年针对空气污染制定了一系列令人印象深刻的政策，但监管者仍然受到权力有限的困扰，快速的经济增长意味着每天都会出现新污染源，商界的既得利益者也肯定会一直抱怨。”
“It’s one thing to have a strategy, and another to execute it well,” he added.
他还表示，“制定策略是一回事，很好地执行策略是另外一回事。”
Huang Wei, who works on climate and energy issues at Greenpeace East Asia, said officials needed to focus on bigger solutions, not stopgap measures. “The situation will not change as long as China has an over 70 percent energy dependency on coal,” she said. “The long-term solution is to get rid of heavy energy-consuming industries.”
绿色和平东亚分部(Greenpeace East Asia)从事气候及能源问题工作的黄薇（音译）表示，官员们需要着眼于更广泛的解决方案，而不是权宜之计。“只要中国70%以上的能源来源依然是煤，情况就不会改变，”她说。“长期的解决办法是去除高能耗产业。”
Skeptics point out that wealthier households can buy extra vehicles to get around that rule. And Beijing News said in its editorial that on “red alert” days, everyone should stay home, not just children. “Faced with the increasingly serious pollution levels in Beijing,” it said, “coupled with the carelessness of residents in protecting themselves against pollution, the emergency plan is still inadequate.”
怀疑者指出，富裕的家庭可以购买另外的车，避开车号限制。《新京报》在社论中写道，出现“红色预警”的时候，所有人都应该待在家中，不仅仅是儿童。“面对北京日益严重的污染形势，”文章称，“以及许多市民对于污染防护的忽视，这一应急预案的力度，仍显不足。”