Britt Slabinski could hear the bullets ricochet off the rocks in the darkness. It was the first firefight for his six-man reconnaissance unit from SEAL Team 6, and it was outnumbered, outgunned and taking casualties on an Afghan mountaintop.
布里特·斯拉宾斯基(Britt Slabinski)在黑暗中能听见子弹击中岩石后弹射出去的声音。这是他的海豹突击队第6分队(SEAL Team 6)的六人侦察小组第一次与敌人交火。在阿富汗的一座山顶上，他们的人数和武器都少于敌人，遭受了伤亡。
A half-dozen feet or so to his right, John Chapman, a U.S. Air Force technical sergeant acting as the unit’s radio man, lay wounded in the snow. Slabinski, a senior chief petty officer, could see through his night-vision goggles an aiming laser from Chapman’s rifle rising and falling with his breathing, a sign he was alive.
斯拉宾斯基右侧约六英尺远的地方，担任该小队无线电技师的美国空军技师约翰·查普曼(John Chapman)受了伤，倒在雪地里。二级军士长斯拉宾斯基通过夜视镜能看见查普曼步枪上的瞄准激光随着他的呼吸一起一伏，表明他还活着。
Then another of the Americans was struck in a furious exchange of grenades and machine-gun fire, and the chief realized that his team had to get off the peak immediately.
紧接着，另一名美国军人在疯狂的手榴弹和机关枪交火中被击中。队长意识到，他们必须马上撤离山顶。
He looked back over at Chapman. The laser was no longer moving, Slabinski recalls, though he was not close enough to check the airman’s pulse. Chased by bullets that hit a second SEAL in the leg, the chief said, he crawled on top of the sergeant but could not detect any response, so he slid down the mountain face with the other men. When they reached temporary cover, one asked: “Where’s John? Where’s Chappy?” Slabinski responded, “He’s dead.”
他回头看了看查普曼。激光不再移动，斯拉宾斯基事后回忆，不过他离得不够近，不能查看这位空军士兵的脉搏。队长说，在枪林弹雨中——另一位海豹突击队员的腿部被击中——他爬到这名技师身上，但是没有发现任何反应，于是他和其他人沿着山坡滑了下去。他们到达临时掩体时，有人问：“约翰呢？查比（查普曼的昵称）呢？”斯拉宾斯基回答：“他死了。”
Now, more than 14 years after that brutal fight, in which seven Americans ultimately died, the Air Force says that Slabinski was wrong — and that Chapman not only was alive, but also fought on alone for more than an hour after the SEALs had retreated. The Air Force secretary is pushing for a Medal of Honor, the military’s highest award, after new technology used in an examination of videos from aircraft flying overhead helped officials conclude that the sergeant had killed two fighters with al-Qaida — one in hand-to-hand combat — before dying in an attempt to protect arriving reinforcements.
那场残酷的战斗中最终有七名美军将士丧生。然而时隔逾14年之后，空军却宣称，斯拉宾斯基判断错误，查普曼当时不仅活着，而且在海豹突击队撤退后独自战斗了一个多小时。空军部长正在为他争取荣誉勋章(Medal of Honor)，美军的最高荣誉，因为在使用新技术察看战地上空的飞机拍摄的视频之后，官员们断定，这名技师打死了基地组织的两名士兵——一个是在肉搏战中——最终为了掩护赶来的增援部队而牺牲。
The new account of Chapman’s last act reopens old wounds for SEAL Team 6, the elite U.S. Navy unit that would later kill Osama bin Laden. The findings could rekindle tensions between Team 6 and other Special Operations organizations that lost men in the March 4, 2002, mission, which they felt the SEALs had planned and executed poorly, according to current and former military officials.
关于查普曼最后行动的新发现重新揭开了海豹突击队第6分队的旧伤。这支美国海军的精锐部队后来打死了奥萨马·本·拉登(Osama bin Laden)。这些发现可能会重新激化海豹突击队第6分队与其他在2002年3月4日的行动中损兵折将的特种部队之间的矛盾。据现役和退役军官们称，他们认为海豹6分队对那次行动的计划和执行都很糟糕。
While saying the sergeant should be recognized for his valor if the Air Force narrative was correct, Slabinski still expressed skepticism that the new evidence — gleaned from software that can isolate pixel representations of people and help track their movements — was reliable. SEAL Team 6 supports the proposed award, military officials said, but is not taking a position on whether Chapman was alive when the SEALs retreated.
斯拉宾斯基说，如果空军的陈述是事实，那么这位技师的英勇应该得到表彰；不过他依然对新证据的可靠性表示怀疑。新证据是通过一种软件搜集的，它能分离出人体图像的像素特征，从而帮助追踪他们的行动。军方官员说，海豹突击队第6分队支持授予勋章的提议，但没有就海豹突击队撤退时查普曼是否活着表态。
If approved by the president, the award will be the first of the more than 3,500 Medals of Honor given since the Civil War to rely not on eyewitness accounts but primarily on technology.
如果得到总统批准，那么这枚勋章将是自美国内战以来授予的超过3500枚荣誉勋章中第一枚不是依据目击证人的陈述、而是主要依据科技手段来决定颁发的奖章。
A Retreat Under Fire
炮火中的撤退
Slabinski’s team was ordered to establish an observation post on top of the mountain, Takur Ghar, during Operation Anaconda, an effort to encircle and destroy al-Qaida forces in the Shah-e-Kot Valley in eastern Afghanistan, about 25 miles from Pakistan. The battle occurred less than three months after bin Laden had escaped at Tora Bora, and U.S. commanders still hoped to capture or kill senior al-Qaida leaders.
斯拉宾斯基的小队在“蟒蛇”行动(Operation Anaconda)中奉命在塔库尔山顶建立观察点。“蟒蛇”行动是为了在距巴基斯坦约25英里的阿富汗东部的沙阿库特山谷包围并消灭基地组织的部队。这次战斗发生之前不到三个月的时候，本·拉登在托拉—博拉基地逃跑，美军指挥官依然希望捕捉或杀死基地组织的高级领导人。
Slabinski’s plan was to land by helicopter near the base of the 10,000-foot mountain at about midnight and climb up stealthily, but a series of delays involving aircraft left no time to do that before dawn. Under pressure from superiors, he said, he reluctantly flew to the peak at about 3 a.m.
斯拉宾斯基的计划是乘坐直升机于午夜前后到达海拔1万英尺的山峰的山脚附近，然后悄悄爬上山。但是发生了与飞机有关的一系列延误，导致他们没有足够时间在黎明前登顶。他说，迫于上级的压力，他很不情愿地在凌晨3点左右飞到山顶。
Unbeknown to the SEALs, al-Qaida forces were already there, and they hit the helicopter with heavy fire. One of Slabinski’s men, Petty Officer 1st Class Neil C. Roberts, fell out about 10 feet above the ground, and the pilot could not retrieve him before the stricken aircraft crash-landed a few miles away.
海豹突击队并不知道，基地组织的部队已经到达那里了。他们猛烈袭击直升机。斯拉宾斯基手下的上士尼尔·C·罗伯茨(Neil C. Roberts)在离地面约10英尺的高度掉了出去，飞行员没能救回罗伯茨，中弹的飞机也在几英里之外的地方迫降。
Shortly before 5 a.m., the five remaining SEALs and Chapman returned to the top — later called “Roberts Ridge” — on another helicopter to try to rescue Roberts. They did not know that enemy fighters had already killed and tried to decapitate him.
凌晨5点前不久，剩下的五名海豹突击队员和查普曼乘坐另一架直升机返回山顶——这里后来被称为“罗伯茨山脊”(Roberts Ridge)——试图营救罗伯茨。他们不知道敌军已经杀死罗伯茨并打算斩首。
The Americans were again met by a withering barrage. Rushing through thigh-deep snow, Chapman charged ahead of Slabinski, and they killed two fighters in a bunker — a hole dug in the ground under a tree — before the airman was wounded.
这几名美国军人再次遭遇猛烈攻击。查普曼穿过大腿深的积雪，冲在斯拉宾斯基前面，他们打死了掩体（在树下地上挖的洞）里的两名敌军。之后这名空军受了伤。
Under fire, the SEALs retreated about 15 minutes later.
约15分钟后，海豹突击队员在炮火中撤退。
Soon after, the military opened an investigation to determine what had gone wrong. The chief investigator, Lt. Col. Andrew Milani of the Army, wrote later that an Air Force gunship had failed to detect the militants on the mountaintop and the SEALs had “violated a basic tenet of reconnaissance” by landing directly on their observation post instead of hiking up to it.
不久后，军队展开调查，以确定是哪里出了问题。首席调查员陆军中校安德鲁·米拉尼(Andrew Milani)后来写道，空军的一架武装直升机未能发现山顶有敌军，而海豹突击队直接降落到观察点，而不是爬上去，“违反了侦察的基本原则”。
Milani also looked into footage captured by a Predator drone about 50 minutes after the SEALs had left the mountaintop. The grainy images showed someone in the bunker defending himself against two attackers and killing one with a rifle shot, prompting the question: Who was that?
米拉尼还研究了海豹突击队离开山顶约50分钟后一架“捕食者”无人机(Predator)拍摄的视频。模糊的画面显示，有人在掩体里与两名攻击者对抗，用步枪打死了其中一个。这引发了一个问题：那个人是谁？
Milani’s investigation remains classified, but an unclassified paper that he wrote in 2003 offered two possible explanations: The al-Qaida fighters had become confused and were firing at one another, or Chapman, still alive, had resumed fighting. The colonel did not reach a conclusion, based on the evidence he had. But the suggestion that members of one of the military’s most elite Special Operations units might have, even unintentionally, left someone from another service to fight and die alone added to the tensions.
米拉尼的调查仍是机密，不过他在2003年写的一份没有保密的文件中提供了两种可能的解释：一种是基地组织的士兵昏了头，互相射击；另一种是查普曼还活着，继续战斗。这位中校根据所掌握的证据，没有得出结论。但是，美军最精英的特种部队有可能哪怕是在无意中撇下了另一支部队的成员，让他独自战斗至死，这一点加剧了矛盾。
New View of a Battle
关于一场战斗的新观点
A briefing prepared by Air Force special operations officials dismisses as “not viable” Milani’s suggestion that the gunfight caught on video by the CIA Predator might have involved militants fighting one another, according to people who have received it. That the airman was alive and fighting “is fully supported by the evidence,” the briefing slides state.
据收到空军特种部队官员提交的简报的人称，简报拒绝接受米拉尼的其中一种推测，认为它“说不通”，认为中央情报局(CIA)的“捕食者”无人机拍摄到的枪战画面不可能是武装分子在相互射击。简报的幻灯片声称，当时那名空军活着，并在战斗，这一点“得到了证据的完全支持”。
The use of the imagery-enhancement technology to scrutinize the Predator video was central to the findings, particularly when combined with footage, from an AC-130 gunship, that had not been available to Milani. As the drone circled more than 6,500 feet above the peak, trees and other objects impeded its view, and it had trouble staying locked on to the men in the fight.
通过图像优化技术仔细察看“捕食者”无人机拍摄的视频对于这些发现至关重要，尤其是结合了AC-130武装直升机拍摄的视频片段的话。米拉尼并没有获得这份视频片段。无人机在山顶上空6500英尺处盘旋，树木和其他物体干扰了它的视野，也很难锁定战斗中的那些人。
The imagery technology, still being refined in an Air Force lab, enabled the service to assign each person in the blurry videos a “pixel signature” based on his size, his clothing and the weapons he carried, people who have been briefed said. By identifying Chapman shortly after he stepped out of the helicopter with the SEALs, the briefing slides say, its imagery analysts could follow him around the mountaintop, picking him up even when trees or other obstacles partly obscured him.
这种图像技术仍在一间空军的实验室里进行优化。收到简报的人称，这种技术能根据体形、服装和携带的武器给模糊视频中的每个人分配一个“像素签名”。简报幻灯称，图像分析师在查普曼和海豹突击队员走出直升机之后不久认出了他，之后在山顶跟踪他——就算他被树木或其他障碍物部分遮挡。
Outside experts familiar with the technology said having video footage from the gunship as well as from the Predator drone would have provided the analysts with more tracking angles and clarity.
熟悉这一技术的外部专家称，武装直升机和“捕食者”无人机拍摄的视频片段能够给分析师提供更多的追踪角度和更高的清晰度。
Presented with the Air Force analysis, Milani submitted an addendum to his paper. “With some of the original uncertainty removed, I can state that the probability now lies more in favor of Chapman surviving the original assault,” he wrote.
空军把自己的分析提交给米拉尼之后，他给自己的报告加了一份附件。“在最初的一些不确定因素消除之后，我可以认定，更可能的情况是查普曼在第一次袭击中活了下来，”他写道。
The Air Force’s case includes a new analysis of Chapman’s autopsy that found that bruising on his forehead could have happened only if he had been alive, making the hypothesis that he had been briefly knocked out more plausible.
空军的案件分析还包括对查普曼尸检的最新分析，它发现其额头上的擦伤只可能是在他活下来的情况下发生的，这让他最初只是暂时昏迷的推测更合情理。
His body, which was recovered later that day, had nine bullet wounds, five below his waist and four above. The sequence of the injuries is not known. But the two fatal rounds entered at what would have been an impossible angle had he been killed where the SEALs said he had fallen, according to people familiar with the Air Force briefing.
他的尸体是在那天晚些时候找到的，共有9处枪伤，5处在腰部以下，4处在腰部以上。受伤顺序尚不可知。但是，据熟悉那份空军简报的人称，如果查普曼是在海豹突击队认为他倒下的地点被杀死的话，那么这两处致命枪伤的射击角度是不可能存在的。
Lingering Questions
遗留问题
A team led by the Air Force’s 24th Special Operations Wing commander, Col. Matthew Davidson, briefed Slabinski on the findings late last year. “I didn’t see anything new,” the chief said. “It was just presented differently.”
去年年底一个由空军第24特种联队指挥官马修·戴维森(Matthew Davidson)上校领导的团队汇报了关于斯拉宾斯基的调查结果。“我没有发现任何新东西，”这位军官说。“只不过是陈述上有所不同。”
Davidson said the Air Force could see Chapman “moving in and around the bunker” where he and Slabinski had killed the two enemy fighters, the chief said.
戴维森说，空军本来可以看到，查普曼“围绕着掩体移动”，他和斯拉宾斯基杀死了两个敌人，这位军官说。
But because the bunker was under a tree that largely obscured it, this was not clear to Slabinski watching the video.
但是，因为这个掩体是位于一棵树下，令它显得模糊，斯拉宾斯基看不清楚视频。
“You’ve got these little flashes,” he said. “Here’s a sliver of the pixel here, and then it kind of goes away, and there’s another sliver of it, and here’s some muzzle flash stuff.”
“视频上有这些小的闪光，”他说。“有一个银色的像素，然后它就不见了，然后又是一个银色的像素，然后又有些模糊的闪光。”
What stays with him the most is that morning he led his team into battle to try to save one man, only to be told later that he had left another fighting for his life.
留在他心里最多的想法，就是那天早上，他带着自己的小队参战是为了救一个人，后来才被告知，他留下另一个人在战场上自己奋战求生。
“Is it within John’s character to go on and do this? Without a question,” the chief said. “If John did this stuff, I want him to get recognized.”
“是约翰的性格决定他这样做的吗？毫无疑问，”这位军官说。“如果约翰做了这件事，我希望他为人所知。”