The seventh film in the “Star Wars” franchise, “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” won’t open until December, but already its droids, Jedis and Stormtroopers are flooding the travel world via new “Star Wars” theme park attractions, custom jets and a related museum.
《星球大战》(Star Wars)系列的第七部《星球大战：原力觉醒》(Star Wars: The Force Awakens)要到12月份才上映，但是其中的机器人、绝地武士(Jedi)和冲锋队员正通过新的主题公园、特制飞机和相关博物馆涌向旅游界。
In mid-August, Disney announced that it will build “Star Wars”-themed areas at two of its parks, Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif., and Disney’s Hollywood Studios at Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Fla. At 14 acres each, the “Star Wars” lands will feature two signature attractions, a ride based on the starship Millennium Falcon from the earliest “Star Wars” releases, and an “experience” that places visitors in a space battle between the First Order and the Resistance, which references the coming trilogy. Disney has not announced an opening date, though construction will begin in 2016.
8月中旬，迪士尼宣布，它将在自己的两个公园——加利福尼亚州阿纳海姆的迪士尼乐园和佛罗里达州奥兰多的沃尔特·迪士尼世界度假村的迪士尼好莱坞工作室——修建《星球大战》主题区。这两块《星球大战》乐园均占地14英亩（约合5.6万平方米），将修建两个标志性景点，并提供千年隼飞船(Millennium Falcon)之旅（以早期《星球大战》为灵感），还能让游客亲身“体验”第一教团(First Order)和反抗军(Resistance)之间的太空之战（参考的是即将上映的三部曲）。迪士尼尚未宣布开放日期，但是将从2016年开始建设。
The two parks will also refresh their existing Star Tours, featuring characters and locations from the new film, later this year. And in early 2016, Season of the Force, a new seasonal fan event, will be held at Disneyland. The themed weekend will be capped by fireworks set to the John Williams film soundtrack.
这两个公园还将更新现有的星球之旅，加入将于今年年底上映的新电影中的人物和地点。2016年初，新的季节性粉丝活动原力之季(Season of the Force)将在迪士尼举办。这个周末主题活动的高潮是伴随约翰·威廉姆斯(John Williams)创作的电影原声音乐放烟火。
In the air, the Japanese airline ANA will launch three planes bearing the likenesses of R2-D2 and another robot beginning next month and promises more “Star Wars” theming inside, including possibly headrest covers, paper napkins and cups.
从下月起，日本航空公司全日空(ANA)将启用三架外形模仿R2-D2和另一个机器人的飞机，并承诺在机舱内布置更多《星球大战》主题的用品，包括头靠外罩、纸巾和杯子。
Fans will have to wait a few more years for the “Star Wars” creator George Lucas’s planned Lucas Museum of Narrative Art in Chicago. Though no opening date has been set, the museum will focus on a genre its website describes as art that “tells a story.” The initial collection includes works by Norman Rockwell, N.C. Wyeth, the pin-up-girl illustrator Alberto Vargas and Norman Theodore Mingo, who established the image of the Mad magazine cover boy Alfred E. Neuman. The museum will also feature “cinematic art.”
粉丝们还要再等几年才能看到《星球大战》的创作者乔治·卢卡斯(George Lucas)在芝加哥筹建的卢卡斯叙事艺术博物馆(Lucas Museum of Narrative Art)。它的开放日期尚未确定，不过将重点关注“讲故事”的艺术（其网站的说法）。最初的收藏品包括诺曼·罗克韦尔(Norman Rockwell)、N·C·韦思(N.C. Wyeth)、海报女郎插画师阿尔贝托·瓦尔加斯(Alberto Vargas)，以及《疯狂》杂志(Mad)封面男孩艾尔弗雷德·E·纽曼(Alfred E. Neuman)的创作者诺曼·西奥多·明戈(Norman Theodore Mingo)等人的作品。该博物馆还将探讨“电影艺术”。
“Star Wars” illustrations are featured on the museum’s website.
该博物馆的网站上充满《星球大战》的插图。