DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — From the start, Dubai took the competition to land the 2020 World Expo rather seriously.
阿联酋迪拜——从一开始，迪拜就对争夺2020年世博会(World Expo)的主办权相当重视。
Signs exalting Expo 2020 blanket every spare inch of this sprawling metropolis, a vast eruption of climate-controlled steel and glass. The local press printed special sections tracking every stage of the bid. At the airport, duty-free receipts bear logos congratulating the city for its eventual triumph at November’s end.
在这个充斥着钢铁和玻璃打造的恒温建筑的庞大城市里，2020年世博会的宣传标语几乎无处不在。当地媒体开辟了追踪报道申办进度的专版。在机场，免税的收据上印有庆祝这个城市在11月末终于申博成功的标语。
Dubai’s unbridled enthusiasm might seem odd, given the World Expo’s declining hold on the public’s attention in recent decades. But the United Arab Emirates love nothing so dearly as a commercial pursuit, and for Dubai, the Expo offered a chance to grab global attention and celebrate its resurgent affluence after a long stretch of boom-and-bust upheaval.
考虑到最近几十年公众对世博会的关注不断降温，迪拜的这种巨大热情可能显得有点奇怪。不过，阿联酋对商业价值的重视高于一切，而对于迪拜来说，世博会提供了一个机会，可以借此吸引全世界的目光，展示它在一段较长时间的兴衰起伏之后重新积聚的财富。
So it is perhaps unsurprising that simply winning was not enough. The Emirates wanted answers: Who among their allies had failed to support their vision?
因此，不足为奇的是，对于阿联酋来说仅仅赢得主办权是不够的。阿联酋还想知道：在他们的盟友中，谁没有支持他们的目标？
Almost immediately after the announcement that Dubai had beaten out three other cities — Izmir, Turkey; São Paulo, Brazil; and Yekaterinburg, Russia — for the 2020 event, word spread through the emirate’s business community that two of its close regional allies had cast their votes for others.
几乎在宣布迪拜击败了另外三个城市——土耳其伊兹密尔、巴西圣保罗和俄罗斯叶卡捷琳堡——获得2020年世博会主办权消息的同时，另外的一个消息就在阿联酋商界传开了，那就是：其最亲密的地区盟友把票投给了别人。
The region’s biggest English-language daily newspaper, Gulf News, picked up on the growing outrage and decided to return the slap. The headline on a Dec. 14 editorial put the issue out on the table: “Expo 2020 vote: U.A.E. deserves answers from Pakistan and Afghanistan.”
该地区最大的英文日报《海湾新闻报》(Gulf News)注意到这件事激起了日益强烈的不满，于是决定把这一巴掌还回去。该报12月14日刊登了一篇社论，标题开门见山：“2020年世博会投票：阿联酋要求巴基斯坦和阿富汗做出解释”。
“Despite their assurances, those two countries declined to vote for Dubai, which leads to serious questions about their credibility as allies,” the editorial board wrote, calling it a betrayal given the aid and friendship the Emirates have shown to both nations.
该报的编辑写道，“尽管这两个国家做了保证，他们仍然没有为迪拜投票，这引发了对于这两个国家作为盟友的信誉的严重质疑，”并表示，考虑到阿联酋对这两个国家的帮助和友谊，它们的所作所为是一种背叛。
“Islamabad and Kabul chose to disregard all that binds us and turned their back on us at a critical moment,” the editorial also said. “And that is just incomprehensible.”
这篇社论还写道，“伊斯兰堡和喀布尔选择无视我们之间的情谊，在关键时刻背信弃义。这简直令人费解。”
The Pakistani consul general in Dubai struck back immediately, accusing the newspaper of producing what was “apparently an orchestrated attempt to damage and defame the historic fraternal relations between Pakistan and the U.A.E.,” according to his letter to the editor.
巴基斯坦驻迪拜总领事立刻进行了回击，他在给编辑的信中指责说，该报“似乎精心策划了一次破坏和诋毁巴基斯坦和阿联酋长期友好关系”的行动。
He continued, “Not only is the language offensive, the article is factually incorrect.”
他接着说，“这篇文章不仅出言不逊，还存在事实错误。”
Afghanistan made no such public statements. But reached by phone, the deputy minister of commerce and industry conceded that his country had opted to vote for Turkey.
阿富汗没有公开表态。但是阿富汗商业和工业部副部长莫扎米尔·欣瓦里(Mozammil Shinwari)在电话中承认，阿富汗的确把票投给了土耳其。
“Dubai is quite important for us, especially as a transit hub,” said Mozammil Shinwari, the deputy minister. “But this decision came mainly from the cultural and historical connections between Afghanistan and Turkey, as well as their contribution to the development of Afghanistan.”
欣瓦里说，“迪拜对我们非常重要，尤其是作为一个交通枢纽。但是我们的决定主要是因为阿富汗和土耳其在文化和历史上的联系，以及土耳其对阿富汗的发展所做的贡献。”
But the Emirati pride is a stubborn one. And while Dubai or the rest of the Emirates are unlikely to do something drastic like cut back aid or investment in Afghanistan and Pakistan, the lack of support was taken as a notably unamusing threat to Dubai’s business prospects.
但阿联酋没那么容易放弃自己的骄傲。尽管迪拜或阿联酋的其他酋长国不太可能做出极端的举动，比如削减对阿富汗和巴基斯坦的援助或投资，这两个国家的举动仍然被看做是对迪拜商业前景的一种威胁，令人极不愉快。
In some respects, winning the 2020 World Expo offered a way for Dubai to emerge from its dark days with a new vigor. In decades past, the event captured the world’s imagination, introducing the telephone, the diesel engine and even the Eiffel Tower.
从一些方面来说，赢得2020年世博会的主办权为迪拜提供了一种以全新的面貌走出黑暗岁月的机会。在过去的历史里，这一盛事曾经让全世界如痴如醉，让世人认识了电话、柴油发动机，甚至还有埃菲尔铁塔。
So Dubai campaigned hard to secure the necessary votes to win the event, and it had banked on support from Pakistan and Afghanistan to make it happen.
因此，迪拜为获得所需的选票大力拉票，并在投票前一直确信，能够获得巴基斯坦和阿富汗的支持。
“We expected those two countries to be the first to offer their backing, considering the close-knit relationship that binds our people,” the editorial said.
社论说，“考虑到我们与这两国人民之间的紧密关系，我们本以为它们会是最先支持我们的国家。”
The United Arab Emirates have taken an interest in helping to develop their war-torn ally, Afghanistan. The wealthiest Afghans park their money in Dubai, an estimated $4 billion spread among the 500 richest businessmen, according to the Afghan Embassy to the Emirates. There are numerous daily flights between Kabul, the Afghan capital, and Dubai. And since 2003, the Emirates have stationed soldiers in Afghanistan to assist in the delivery of aid and, occasionally, fight off Taliban ambushes.
阿联酋一直乐于帮助饱受战争创伤的盟友阿富汗实现发展。最富有的阿富汗人也把他们的钱存在迪拜。阿富汗驻阿联酋大使馆估计，该国500名最富有商人大约在迪拜共存有40亿美元（约合人民币240亿元）。每天都有大量航班往返于阿富汗首都喀布尔和迪拜之间。2003年以来，阿联酋已经在阿富汗派驻士兵，帮助运输援助物资，有时也对塔利班的伏击进行回击。
But when it comes down to playing favorites, the reality is that most Afghan officials and businessmen feel closer to Turkey. And as a regional power, Turkey remains the dominant player. Its economy is roughly twice the size of the United Arab Emirates’, and in the last decade, trade between Turkey and Afghanistan increased 36-fold, to $264 million as of 2010.
但要说到喜欢哪个国家，其实大多数阿富汗官员和商人更偏向于土耳其。作为地区大国，土耳其仍然是占主导地位的参与者。其经济总量大约是阿联酋的两倍，截至2010年的10年里，土耳其和阿富汗之间的贸易额增长了36倍，达到2.64亿美元。
Turkey’s aid and military presence also outstrip the contributions of the Emirates.
土耳其对阿富汗的援助和驻军规模也超过了阿联酋。
“Turkey’s investment here is quite huge,” said Mr. Shinwari, the Afghan deputy minister.
阿富汗副部长欣瓦里说，“土耳其在这里的投资规模极其庞大。”