A fire erupted early Friday morning in Dubai in one of the world’s tallest residential buildings, enveloping a side of the 86-story Torch Tower and spouting burning debris to the streets below.
周五凌晨，位于迪拜的世界最高住宅楼之一突发大火，迅速吞噬了86层高的“火炬塔”的一侧，不断有燃烧的碎片掉落到地面街道上。
The fire broke out around 1 a.m. in the 1,100-foot skyscraper in the northern end of the densely populated Marina district, and the flames stretched dozens of floors. Firefighters from four fire stations were deployed and helped all the residents evacuate, the Dubai Media Office said on Twitter. No one appeared to be injured.
这座1100英尺高的摩天大楼在大约凌晨1点起火。大楼位于人口密集的码头区北端，火势蔓延了数十层。迪拜媒体办公室(Dubai Media Office)在Twitter上称，当局派遣了来自四个消防站的消防员前去救火，并协助所有居民撤离。目前未有伤亡报告。
The fire was brought under control around 3:30 a.m., the authorities said.
当局表示，凌晨3:30左右，火情得到控制。
The fast-spreading blaze resembled a 2015 fire at the Torch Tower, when about 60 floors of the building became engulfed in flames. Investigators concluded that the tower’s exterior cladding, made of aluminum panels with combustible plastic cores, helped accelerate the flames.
迅速蔓延的火势与2015年“火炬塔”发生的大火相似，当时大楼有约60层被大火吞噬。调查人员得出结论称，大楼的外墙由铝板制成，带有易燃的塑料芯，加速了火势蔓延。
Flammable cladding has contributed to at least three other towering infernos in recent years in Dubai, the most populated city in the United Arab Emirates. Dozens of giant apartment buildings and hotels have been erected there in the last two decades. On New Year’s Eve in 2015, a fire started by an electrical short in the Address Hotel, a 63-story tower, quickly spread to consume the entire building.
在迪拜，近年来可燃外墙的覆层至少导致了另外三场大火。迪拜是阿拉伯联合酋长国人口最密集的城市。过去20年，有数十座巨型公寓楼和酒店大楼拔地而起。在2015年新年前夜，高63层的阿德瑞斯酒店(Address Hotel)因电路短路起火，火势迅速蔓延并吞噬了整栋大楼。
After that fire, the Dubai Civil Defense announced restrictions in 2016 on using exterior paneling on new construction, including forbidding it on towers taller than nine floors. But the new rules did not immediately apply to older buildings. About 70 percent of the high-rise buildings in the United Arab Emirates were constructed with the flammable panels, The National reported in 2012.
那场大火过后，迪拜民防局(Dubai Civil Defense)在2016年对新建筑使用外墙板颁布了限制措施，包括禁止在九层以上的大楼使用外墙板。但是新规定未立刻被应用到之前建的大楼。据迪拜《全国报(The National)》在2012年报道，阿联酋大约有70%的高楼在建造时使用了可燃外墙板。
Flammable paneling played a major role in a fatal inferno in June at the Grenfell Tower in London, which killed at least 80 people. The United States has stricter restrictions on the use of this type of paneling.
易燃外墙板也是导致伦敦格伦费尔塔(Grenfell Tower)6月的致命大火的主要原因，那场大火导致了至少80人死亡。美国对使用这种外墙壁板有更严格的限制。