LOS ANGELES — A measles outbreak that began at Disneyland is spreading across California and beyond, prompting health officials to move aggressively to contain it — including by barring unvaccinated students from going to school in Orange County. The outbreak has increased concerns that a longstanding movement against childhood vaccinations has created a surge in a disease that was declared eliminated in the United States in 2000.
洛杉矶——发源于迪斯尼乐园的麻疹疫情继续在加州扩大，影响波及他州。卫生官员正积极响应，希望控制疫情。在橘郡，应对措施包括禁止未接种疫苗的学生到校上课。此次疫情加剧了一种担心，认为长期以来反对儿童接种疫苗的运动可能导致了这种疾病再度高发。人们本来认为美国在2000年已经消灭了麻疹。
Health officials said 59 cases of measles had been diagnosed in California as of Wednesday, with an additional eight related cases spread through Utah, Washington, Oregon, Colorado and Mexico. Among those infected are five workers at Disneyland, where the outbreak was spotted in mid-December; 42 of the 59 California cases have been linked to the Disneyland outbreak.
截至周三，卫生官员说加州已经确诊了59个麻疹病例。相关病例还在犹他、华盛顿、俄勒冈、科罗拉多和墨西哥发现。感染者中，五人是迪斯尼乐园职工。这次疫情就是12月中旬在那里开始的。加州59个病例中42个与发源于迪斯尼乐园的疫情有关。
The cases were a continuation of what health officials said was a worrisome increase in measles in Orange County and other places where parents had resisted the urging of health professionals to inoculate their children. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported 644 cases of measles from 27 states last year, by far the largest number since 2000.
在橘郡等地，家长长期抵制卫生专家要求给孩子接种疫苗的呼吁。卫生官员认为目前麻疹病例正在上升。去年，疾控中心报告了来自27个州的644个病例，是2000年以来最高的一年。
The latest outbreak has renewed a heated debate about an anti-vaccination movement championed largely by parents who believe discredited research linking vaccines to autism, or who believe that the risks of some vaccines, including the measles inoculations, outweigh any potential benefit.
这次爆发再次激起了关于反疫苗接种运动的争论。一些家长相信了不可靠的研究，认为注射疫苗与自闭症有关；还有人相信，一些疫苗包括麻疹疫苗的风险高过了潜在的好处。反疫苗运动就是主要由这些人推动的。
“We can expect to see many more cases of this preventable disease unless people take measures to prevent it,” said Dr. Gilberto F. Chávez, the deputy director of the California Center for Infectious Diseases. “I am asking unvaccinated Californians to consider getting vaccinated against measles.”
“除非人们采取措施预防，否则我们会看到更多病例，”加州传染病中心副主任吉尔伯托·F·查韦斯(Dr. Gilberto F. Chávez)说。“我建议尚未接种疫苗的加利福尼亚人考虑接种麻疹疫苗。”
Dr. James Cherry, a specialist in pediatric infectious diseases at the University of California, Los Angeles, said the outbreak was “100 percent connected” to the anti-immunization campaign. “It wouldn’t have happened otherwise — it wouldn’t have gone anywhere,” he said. “There are some pretty dumb people out there.”
加州大学洛杉矶分校的儿童传染病学专家詹姆斯·切里(Dr. James Cherry)说，这次疫情“百分之百”与反疫苗运动“有关连”。他说：“否则是不会发生的——病毒扩散不出去。但是总有些愚人。”
Health officials in Orange County issued a letter to parents saying that students who could not prove they had received a measles shot could be barred from class; more than 20 were sent home from an Orange County high school this week.
橘郡卫生官员向家长发出了公开信，说不能证明接种过疫苗的学生可被停课。本周橘郡一所高中已有20名学生被要求回家。
“The majority of the cases that we are seeing here are underimmunized,” said Dr. Eric G. Handler, the public health officer for Orange County, referring to children who had not been vaccinated or had received only one of the two necessary shots. “This is a serious contagious disease that is preventable. The message is absolutely critical that if you are not vaccinated, you need to get vaccinated.”
橘郡卫生官员埃里克·G·汉德勒(Dr. Eric G. Handler)说：“大部分病例属于免疫不足的情况。”指的是未接种疫苗，或两针只打了一针的儿童。“这是一种烈性传染病，它可以预防。我们得到的教训很严重，如果你没有打疫苗，你应该去打。”
The vaccination exemption rate among kindergarten students in California — cases in which parents said they did not want their children vaccinated for health, religious or other reasons — was 3.1 percent in the 2013-14 school year, according to the C.D.C. report. Oregon had an exemption rate of 7.1 percent, the nation’s highest, the report found. Health officials said the vaccination rate needed to be above 95 percent in all communities to prevent outbreaks.
根据疾控中心报告，2013到2014学年，加州幼儿园儿童中疫苗免接种率是3.1%。这是指家长要求出于健康、宗教或其他原因，要求不给子女接种的情况。报告称，俄勒冈州免接种率是7.1%，全国最高。卫生官员说，在任何社区，接种率应达到95%以上，才能避免疫情爆发。
Still, the California figure can be deceiving. Health officials said there were pockets across the state, including wealthy neighborhoods in Los Angeles and Orange Counties and enclaves in Northern California, where the exemption rate jumped into the double digits. California has long been viewed as particularly prone to this kind of outbreak because of its population size and the number of people arriving from overseas.
但加州的数据可能有欺骗性。卫生官员说，全州各地有些区域，包括洛杉矶和橘郡等地的富人区，以及北加州一些地区，在那些地方，免接种率可能达到了两位数。加州长期以来被认为是易于爆发传染病的地方，因为人口众多，而且大批国际旅客从这里入境。
“The problem is that there are these pockets with low vaccination rates,” said Dr. Jane Seward, the deputy director of the viral diseases division at the C.D.C. “If a case comes into a population where a lot of people are unvaccinated, that’s where you get the outbreak and where you get the spread.”
疾控中心病毒性疾病科副科长简希沃德(Dr. Jane Seward)说：“问题是，存在这些低免疫率的地区。只要在很多人没有免疫的地方发现一个病例，那个地方就会出现大爆发，会扩散。”
Organizations that have led the campaign of doubts about vaccinations suggested that it was too soon to draw such a conclusion. The groups cautioned parents not to be pressured into having their children receive vaccinations, which the organizations say have been linked to other diseases. Health professionals say those claims are unfounded or vastly overstated.
推动反疫苗运动的组织说，不应急于下结论。它们提醒家长，不要屈于压力，给孩子接种疫苗。它们说疫苗和其他疾病有关。卫生官员说，那些说法没有根据，或者过分夸大。
“It’s premature to blame the increase in reports of measles on the unvaccinated when we don’t have all the facts yet,” said Barbara Loe Fisher, the president of the National Vaccine Information Center, a group raising concerns about inoculations. “I do know this: Fifty-seven cases of measles coming out of Disneyland in a country with a population of 317 million people is not a lot of cases. We should all take a deep breath and wait to see and get more information.”
“现在把麻疹病例增加归咎于未接种人群为时太早，”国家疫苗信息中心主席芭芭拉·罗伊·费舍(Barbara Loe Fisher)说。这是一个关注疫苗安全问题的组织。“有一点我是知道的：迪斯尼乐园发生了57个病例，这在人口3.17亿的国家，不是个大数。我们都应该冷静，等待更多的信息。”
A handful of doctors seem sympathetic to these views. Dr. Jay Gordon, a Santa Monica pediatrician who has cautioned against the way vaccines are used, said he had “given more measles vaccines” than ever before but did not like giving the shot to younger children.
少数医生似乎也认同。圣莫妮卡儿科医生杰·戈登(Dr. Jay Gordon)一直主张慎重对待疫苗的使用。他说他现在接种的麻疹疫苗“比以往任何时候更多”，但他不情愿给幼儿注射。
“I think whatever risk there is — and I can’t prove a risk — is, I think, caused by the timing,” he said, referring to when the shot is administered. “It’s given at a time when kids are more susceptible to environmental impact. Don’t get me wrong; I have no proof that this vaccine causes harm. I just have anecdotal reports from parents who are convinced that their children were harmed by the vaccine.”
“我想不管有什么风险——我不能证明有风险——那都是由注射时机决定的，”他说。“疫苗接种的时候，儿童更容易受到外界环境的影响。别误解我的意思。我没有证据证明疫苗造成了伤害。我只是从家长那里得到一些零星反馈，说孩子接种疫苗后产生了副作用。”