WASHINGTON — President Obama, trying to quell a growing furor over the rollout of his heath care law, bowed to bipartisan pressure on Thursday and announced a policy reversal that would allow insurance companies to temporarily keep people on health plans that were to be canceled under the new law because they did not meet minimum standards.
华盛顿——奥巴马总统医改法案的实施，引发了越来越炙烈的怒火。为了安抚情绪，奥巴马周四屈服于两党的压力，宣布在政策上让步。一些医疗保险计划由于达不到奥巴马医改的最低标准，按照新的医保法案本会被撤销，但这项政策调整决定，允许保险公司暂时让客户继续持有从前的保险计划。
The decision to allow the policies to remain in effect for a year without penalties represented the Obama administration’s hurriedly developed effort to address one of the major complaints about the beleaguered health care law. It seemed for the moment to calm rising anger and fear of a political backlash among congressional Democrats who had been threatening to support various legislative solutions opposed by the White House because of their potential to undermine the law.
奥巴马政府决定，允许这些保单的效力再持续一年，而不需要缴纳罚款。这项决定显示出，奥巴马政府正在仓促制定方案，来应对人们对腹背受敌的医改法案所抱怨的其中一个严重问题。此举当前似乎平复了国会民主党人的愤怒，也缓和了白宫对国会民主党人倒戈的担忧，他们曾威胁要支持若干项白宫反对的立法方案。而白宫之所以反对这些立法举措，是因为它们可能会破坏奥巴马的医改法案。
Senate Democratic leaders said they did not see the need for an immediate legislative fix — a victory for White House officials worried that momentum was building in the Democratically controlled Senate toward consideration of a measure to force the change.
参议院民主党领袖表示，他们不认为有必要立即采取立法措施进行补救。这对于白宫官员来说是一个胜利，因为他们一度担心在民主党控制的参议院里，考虑通过立法强制做出改变的呼声正在增强。
The Republican-controlled House is still set to vote Friday on a bill by Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan and chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, that would allow Americans to keep their existing health coverage through 2014 without penalties — as well as allow new people to continue to buy the plans, something the White House said would effectively gut the Affordable Care Act.
共和党控制的众议院仍计划在周五对密歇根州共和党人、能源和商务委员会(Energy and Commerce Committee)主席弗雷德·厄普顿(Fred Upton)提出的一项议案进行投票。该议案允许美国人继续当前投保的医疗保险，直到2014年，而无需缴纳罚款，而且还允许新参保者继续购买这些保单。白宫表示这样的举措实质上会破坏《合理医疗费用法案》(Affordable Care Act)。
The president’s announcement on Thursday seemed to limit Democratic defections, with only two dozen or so House Democrats now expected to support Mr. Upton’s bill. Without the presidential action, officials said, scores of Democrats might have joined Republicans in approving the Upton measure.
奥巴马周四宣布的决定似乎防止了民主党议员的倒戈，现在估计只有20多名民主党众议员会投票支持厄普顿的议案。官员表示，如果奥巴马没有采取这样的行动，就会有数十名民主党人与共和党一道，投票支持厄普顿的议案。
It remained unclear, however, just how much impact the fix delivered by an apologetic Mr. Obama would actually have. Though his proposal grants discretion to insurers to allow people to stay on their existing plans, there is no guarantee that insurers will do so, or that the states will allow such renewals.
然而尚不清楚心怀愧疚的奥巴马所提出的举措能够产生多大的影响。尽管他的提议允许保险公司让人们继续现有的保单，但并不能保证保险公司一定会这样做，也不能保证州政府允许续约。
Some state insurance commissioners caught off-guard by the announcement said they did not intend to allow insurers to reinstate the policies. The Obama announcement also met a cool reaction from the industry.
白宫宣布的举措让一些州的保险监管部门措手不及，它们表示不打算允许保险公司恢复那些保险计划。保险业界似乎也对奥巴马宣布的举措反应冷淡。
“Changing the rules after health plans have already met the requirements of the law could destabilize the market and result in higher premiums for consumers,” said Karen M. Ignagni, the president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group.
行业组织美国医疗保险计划(America’s Health Insurance Plans)的负责人凯伦·M·伊尼亚尼(Karen M. Ignagni)说，“在医保方案都已经达到法律要求的情况下，再改变规则，可能会扰乱市场，导致消费者需要缴纳更高保费。”
“Premiums have already been set for next year based on an assumption about when consumers will be transitioning to the new marketplace,” she said. “If now fewer younger and healthier people choose to purchase coverage in the exchange, premiums will increase, and there will be fewer choices for consumers.”
“未来一年的保费已经制定好了，依据是对消费者何时会转移到新市场的预期，”她说。“如果现在比较年轻、比较健康的人群中，选择在交易所买保险的人变少了，那么保费就会提高，消费者的选择也会变少。”
Republicans portrayed the policy switch as an effort to shift blame to insurance companies. Speaker John A. Boehner dismissed the president’s act and said the White House could not be trusted on the issue.
共和党人形容，这一政策转变是在试图把责任推到保险公司身上。众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)批评了奥巴马的举动，称白宫在这个问题上不值得信赖。
“Promise after promise from this administration has turned out to be not true,” Mr. Boehner said. “So when it comes to this health care law, the White House doesn’t have much credibility. Now, let’s be clear. The only way to fully protect the American people is to scrap this law once and for all. There is no way to fix this.”
“奥巴马政府做出的一个接一个承诺，最后都落空了，”博纳说。“所以提到医改法案，白宫并没有多少可信度。现在我来把话说清楚，为美国民众提供全面保障的唯一方式，是完全彻底地废除这项法律。这项法律是没法修复的。”
Still, the president told reporters at the White House on Thursday that the changes should allow many people to retain their health care plans for a year despite having received letters saying they could no longer keep their insurance.
然而周四在白宫的新闻发布会上，奥巴马还是对记者表示，这个变动能允许很多人继续享受一年现有的医疗保险，即使已经收到信函，被告知不能再保有现有的医保计划。
“This fix won’t solve every problem for every person, but it’s going to help a lot of people,” said Mr. Obama, who repeatedly took personal responsibility for misrepresenting the law and saying Americans who like their coverage would be able to keep it.
奥巴马说，“这个举措无法为每个人解决所有问题，但是能够帮助很多人。”奥巴马一再表示，错误表述法律的责任由他本人承担。他曾说，喜欢自己的保险的人，可以继续保留它们。
“I completely get how upsetting this can be for a lot of Americans, particularly after assurances they heard from me that if they had a plan that they liked they could keep it,” Mr. Obama said. “And to those Americans, I hear you loud and clear. I said that I would do everything we can to fix this problem. And today I’m offering an idea that will help do it.”
“我完全理解这对很多美国人而言，多么令人反感，尤其是他们听到我反复保证，如果已经有了中意的医保，就可以保留，”奥巴马说。“我想对那一部分民众说，我清晰明确地听到了你们的呼声。我说过我会尽自己所能，解决这个问题。今天我就会提出一个想法，来帮助解决问题。”
The president’s plan would apply only to people who have policies that are being canceled. Those currently without insurance would not be able to buy the old plans.
奥巴马总统的方案只适用于那些手头的保单即将被取消的人。现在没有医保的人，依然不能购买旧的保险计划。