Everywhere I went, I walked in her footsteps. She stepped on these same stones, past the Roman-era thermal baths, beyond the church, to the 15th-Century castle in the heart of the town. When I pictured her, she was no longer the white-haired octogenarian I knew from my childhood, but a 25-year-old newlywed with her whole life ahead of her.
我每到一处，都追寻着她的足迹。她踏着这些相同的石头，经过罗马时代的温泉浴场，走过教堂，到达镇中心的15世纪城堡。我想到她的时候，她不再是我童年时代听过的那位白发苍苍、耄耋之年的老人，而是一位25岁的新娘，人生之路尽在眼前。
In the first days of my honeymoon, I travelled to the region of Abruzzo in central Italy to retrace the same steps my great-grandmother Filomena walked after her own nuptials, almost 100 years earlier. For the past two years, I’d been so busy planning my own wedding that I didn’t have much time to think about what it meant to be married. But travelling to the town where Filomena began her 50-year union seemed like a good place to start.
在度蜜月的开始几天，我前往意大利中部的阿布鲁佐（Abruzzo）大区，重走我的曾祖母菲洛梅娜（Filomena ）在大约100年前婚礼之后走过的路线。在过去的两年中，我一直忙于筹划自己的婚礼，所以没有太多时间去思考结婚的意义。但是前往菲洛梅娜开启自己金婚岁月的小镇，似乎是一个好的开始。
Filomena grew up in the hilltop town of Vasto, known in Abruzzo for its medieval centre and views of the Adriatic Sea. Sandwiched between the regions of Marche and Molise, Abruzzo is a little removed from Italy’s well-known tourist destinations. Growing up in Vasto, she couldn’t have imagined all the turns her life would take, from the highs of a happy family to the lows of war and illness.
菲洛梅娜在山顶小镇瓦斯托（Vasto）长大，小镇以其中世纪中心和亚得里亚海（Adriatic Sea）的美景而闻名。阿布鲁佐大区夹在马尔凯（Marche）大区和莫利塞（Molise）大区之间，距离意大利著名的旅游目的地较远。成长于瓦斯托的她无法想象自己生活中的种种转折，从家庭幸福的得意，到战争与疾病的打击。
The story of my family, as I knew it, started after Vasto. Filomena Smargiassi stepped off the SS Argentina onto Ellis Island in New York on 1 September 1922, carrying her infant son in her arms. But after I travelled to Vasto, the starting point of her story shifted. I began to think about Filomena as a young, adventurous woman planning a new life far from home. Her husband, Domenico, had already went ahead to find work as a mason. She had no other family in the US, and yet she was prepared to get on a boat in Naples and sail into the unknown.
据我所知，我家的故事始于她离开瓦斯托之后。1922年9月1日，菲洛梅娜·斯马尔贾西（Filomena Smargiassi）抱着襁褓中的儿子离开阿根廷号轮船（SS Argentina），到达纽约爱丽丝岛（Ellis Island）。但在我到瓦斯托之后，她的故事的起点发生了变化。我开始想象菲洛梅娜这位敢于冒险的年轻女性，计划在离家很远的地方开始新的生活。她的丈夫多梅尼科（Domenico）早已在此前动身，去谋求一份泥瓦匠的工作。她在美国没有其他的家人，但她准备在那不勒斯（Naples）登船，前往未知的世界。
Something about that willingness to see what could be, reminded me of marriage. You don’t have to know what’s coming next, you just need to want to go.
她想去看看会发生什么，这让我想到了婚姻。你不必知道接下来会发生什么，只要想去就够了。
Vasto wasn’t on my radar in the early stages of planning my honeymoon. It was only when I noticed on a map that Vasto wasn’t far from the month-long route we were charting from Rome south towards Puglia did I consider a visit. After studying in Italy during college, my husband Peter spoke Italian and could serve as translator. How could I be so close and not see where Filomena came from?
在筹划蜜月旅行的初始阶段，瓦斯托并不在我的考虑范围之内。我们的蜜月路线计划从罗马开始，向南至普利亚（Puglia）大区，看地图时我发现瓦斯托距离这条路线不远，才考虑到此一游。我的丈夫彼得（Peter）大学期间在意大利留学，会讲意大利语，可以担任翻译。既然距离这么近，我怎能不去看看菲洛梅娜的故乡呢？
When trying to figure out what a new family might look like, it made sense to turn to the past, I thought. If I knew more about where I came from, would it become clearer where I wanted to go?
我认为，想要弄清楚一个新的家庭可能的样子，回顾过去很有意义。如果我更了解自己从哪里来的话，是不是会更清楚自己想要到哪里去呢？
Despite emigrating at the age of 26, Filomena never learned to speak fluent English. As a result, she’s a shadowy figure to me, a warm presence but not one I sat in the kitchen with during my childhood listening to stories about life in Italy. She worked only in the home, raising eight children and cooking from the garden in her New Jersey backyard, returning to Vasto only a couple of times over the years. Yet, in this big Italian-American family, Vasto remained unknown. Few family members made the journey to visit her hometown.
尽管26岁时就移居国外，但菲洛梅娜并没有学会说一口流利的英语。因此，对我来说她是个模糊的存在。虽然在我童年时我们没有坐在一起吃过饭，但是听到她在意大利生活的故事，我感觉很温暖。她是家庭主妇，养活八个孩子，在新泽西州家里的后院花园里做饭，多年来只回过几次瓦斯托。但是，在这个意大利裔美国大家庭里，瓦斯托仍然不为人知。去她的故乡游玩过的家庭成员没有几个。
But when a cousin heard of my plans to visit Vasto, he sent an email with one line: “You must meet Maurizio!”
但是当一个表弟听说我计划前往瓦斯托时，他发了一封电子邮件，上面写着一句话："你一定要去见毛里齐奥（Maurizio）！"
I hadn’t been sure if my family still had relatives in Abruzzo, but this cousin had recently travelled to Vasto and connected with a distant relative. An architect and local history buff, Maurizio sounded like an ideal guide. After a couple of emails, I was in luck: even though it was the popular summer travelling season, he was in town and willing to show me and my new husband around.
我不确定我家是否仍然在阿布鲁佐有亲戚，但这位表弟最近去过瓦斯托并与一位远亲有联系。毛里齐奥是一位建筑师，也是当地历史爱好者，听起来是一位理想的向导。经过几封邮件往来，我很幸运：尽管当时是夏季旅游旺季，他仍然在城镇里，并且愿意带我和我的新婚丈夫参观。
We agreed to meet outside our hotel in Vasto’s historic centre, home to buildings from the 12th to 18th Centuries. I scanned every man that turned the corner for family traits: a certain shape of the face or type of walk. Though I had never seen a photo of him, I recognised Maurizio immediately from a couple of blocks away – there was something so Smargiassi about him. He had the same tall, lean figure as my grandfather, the same gentle curve of the spine.
我们约好在我们酒店外面的瓦斯托历史中心见面，那里是12到18世纪建筑的所在地。我观察着每一位在转角出现的有我的家人特征的男性：某种特定的脸型或走路的姿势。尽管我连他的照片都没见过，但我在几个街区之外就认出了他——他身上有某种感觉神似斯马尔贾西。他和我的祖父一样身材高大瘦削，脊柱的曲线很平缓。
On Via Bucci, Maurizio pointed out the stone house where Filomena was born. It had a heavy wooden door and a wrought-iron balcony with glass doors and shutters that could be closed to keep out the midday heat. I tried to picture Filomena as a child on the balcony, but instead a photograph of her 50th wedding anniversary came to mind. Remembering this image, the gravity of my recent decision crept into my thoughts. I may have got married in Dublin, my husband’s native city, but the concept of being married began to solidify in Vasto.
在布奇大街（Via Bucci）上，毛里齐奥指出了菲洛梅娜出生的石屋。屋子有一个沉重的木门，熟铁阳台上带有玻璃门和百叶窗，正午时可以关上，不让外面的热气进入。我试着想象菲洛梅娜孩童时代在阳台上的画面，结果想到的却是她50周年金婚纪念日的照片。想到这个画面，我就开始意识到近期决定的重要性。我虽然是在我丈夫的老家都柏林（Dublin）结婚的，但是婚姻的概念却是在瓦斯托变得具体。
Next, we stood in front of the church where Filomena and Domenico were married. When she kissed the groom in the arched doorway, could she have fathomed welcoming 18 grandchildren and sending a son back to Europe to fight in World War II?
随后，我们站在菲洛梅娜和多梅尼科结婚的教堂前。当她在拱门下亲吻新郎时，能否预料到自己将来会有18个子孙，并且会把一个儿子送回欧洲，参加第二次世界大战呢？
At the edge of a ravine near Filomena’s house, we fumbled over the translation of ‘la frana’. After some gesturing and Google Translate assistance, the word ‘landslide’ emerged. In 1956, the town's eastern ridge, home to one of the oldest districts, fell into the gorge during a landslide. Part of the world Filomena grew up in literally crumbled after her departure. When she returned for visits later in life and stood on the edge of the ravine, she saw a different landscape than she’d left behind; even the things we expect to be permanent aren’t always so.
在菲洛梅娜房屋附近的一个峡谷边缘，"la frana"一词的意思难住了我们。通过手势比划以及谷歌翻译的帮助，"山体滑坡"一词浮现眼前。1956年，镇上最古老的地区之一的东部山脊在山体滑坡时掉入峡谷。实际上，菲洛梅娜长大的地方，有一部分在她离开后已经消失了。她在世时，后来又回到这里，站在峡谷的边缘，看到的却是与记忆中截然不同的景象。即使有些事情我们期待永恒，但也不尽如人意。
Maurizio didn’t want us just to see the town but also all the things that shaped the Vastesi people. Since the town was once a Roman port, a visit wouldn’t be complete without going to the sea. He brought us to the Punta Penna Lighthouse, originally built in 1906, and the second-tallest lighthouse in Italy. Further on, we climbed the unsteady steps into a traditional trabocco, a spindly wooden pier on stilts traditionally used for net fishing. I wondered if Filomena chose to live on the US East Coast to be near the sea, like her native village.
毛里齐奥希望我们不只是看看这个小镇，也要感受那些塑造了瓦斯托人民的事物。由于这个小镇曾经是一个罗马港口，不去看海，旅途是不完整的。他带我们到蓬塔彭纳灯塔（Punta Penna Lighthouse），这座灯塔始建于1906年，是意大利第二高的灯塔。再往前，我们沿着摇晃的台阶，爬到架在桩子上的细长木质码头，这里用于传统网鱼。我想知道菲洛梅娜选择生活在美国东海岸附近的海边，是不是因为那里就像她家乡的村庄一样。
Throughout Vasto, I watched my husband laugh at Maurizio’s jokes, and then translate them, allowing me to connect with my relative though I didn’t have the words myself. As they conversed in Italian, it occurred to me that I had never chosen a family member before. The ring that squeezed my finger in the June heat seemed to say: that’s what Peter is now.
在瓦斯托的整个过程中，我看着丈夫被毛里齐奥的笑话一次次逗乐，然后翻译给我，让我与这位亲戚产生联系，尽管不是我和他直接对话。他们用意大利语交谈时，我感觉这次自己选对了人。炎热的六月，我手指上紧扣的戒指似乎在说：现在的彼得是最真实的。
A few days spent walking in Filomena’s footsteps, knowing all the unexpected turns that life threw at her over five decades of marriage, cemented the idea that you can never plan for life’s uncertainties. Landslides sweep towns into ravines and fishing nets can come up empty sometimes.
我们花了几天时间追寻菲洛梅娜的足迹，了解在她50年的婚姻中生活带给她的想象不到的转折。我更加坚定了一个想法：你永远无法为生活中不确定的事做计划。山体滑坡将城镇冲下峡谷，渔网收网时有时会空空如也。
After Vasto, I no longer craved an outline for the future. If that kind of anxiety somehow creeps back in, from now on I’ll think of Filomena on the deck of a steam ship, uncertain, but moving forward anyway.
从瓦斯托回来后，我不再为未来作规划。如果我再有那种忧虑，那么从现在起，我会想到站在一艘蒸汽船甲板上的菲洛梅娜，不确定前方会发生什么，但是勇往直前。