Anja Niedringhaus, a Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer for The Associated Press, was killed in Eastern Afghanistan this month when an Afghan policeman approached her vehicle at a security checkpoint and opened fire with a Kalashnikov assault rifle. The German native was 48 years old.
本月，曾获普利策奖的美联社(The Associated Press)摄影记者安雅·尼德林豪斯(Anja Niedringhaus)在阿富汗东部一处安全检查站遇害，当时，一名阿富汗警察走向尼德林豪斯的汽车，用卡拉什尼科夫冲锋枪向她开火。来自德国的尼德林豪斯享年48岁。
Kathy Gannon, the A.P. reporter traveling with Ms. Niedringhaus, was shot and injured during the episode in Khost Province, where they had traveled to cover preparations for the country’s presidential election on Saturday. Both had spent many years covering the war in Afghanistan and knew the country well. 
在这起发生在霍斯特省的事件中，与尼德林豪斯同行的美联社记者凯茜·甘农(Kathy Gannon)也中枪负伤，她们两人去那里是为了采访阿富汗将于周六举行的总统大选的筹备情况。两人在阿富汗从事报道多年，非常了解这个国家。
Lens spoke with friends and colleagues of Ms. Niedringhaus. Below are excerpts from their remembrances, as well as some of her own words.
“镜头”博客(Lens)采访了尼德林豪斯的朋友和同事。以下是他们的部分追忆，以及尼德林豪斯自己的一些话。
Ruth Fremson of The New York Times said it was rare to meet any photographer as experienced, accomplished, professionally generous and as personally good natured as Anja Niedringhaus, with whom she worked in conflict zones back to Bosnia in the mid-1990s. She remembers how Anja reached out with advice even though the two worked for rival photo agencies in Sarajevo in 1995.
《纽约时报》的鲁丝·弗莱姆森(Ruth Fremson)说很少能遇到像安雅·尼德林豪斯那么经验丰富、技术高超、在专业上慷慨大方、个人品质又极佳的摄影记者。上世纪90年代中期，弗莱姆森曾与尼德林豪斯在波斯尼亚的冲突地带共事。她依然记得，1995年在萨拉热窝时，尽管她们两人为互为竞争对手的图片社工作，但尼德林豪斯依然会给她建议。
“When I arrived in Sarajevo it was Anja who took me aside and said, ‘Come on, Ruth, let’s show you the lay of the land,’” Ms. Fremson said. “She took me around Sarajevo, and told me what I needed to know about it. That was the first time I had met her, she was an amazing news photographer, an amazing sports photographer, and so generous as well.”
“我抵达萨拉热窝时，是安雅把我带到一边说，‘来吧鲁丝，我们跟你说说这儿的情况’，”弗莱姆森说。“她带我在萨拉热窝四处逛，告诉我应该知道哪些情况。那是我第一次见她，她是一名非常棒的新闻摄影师，非常出色的体育摄影师，而且很大方。”
“Not everyone was open to women working in conflict zones. There was an A.P. photographer back then, one of my very own colleagues, who said to me, ‘Women shouldn’t be covering war.’ He said it with no hesitation.”
“并非所有人都接受女性在冲突地带工作。那时，美联社的一名摄影记者，同时也是我的一名同事毫不犹豫地对我说，‘女性不应该作战事报道’”。
“But her work spoke for itself and she became really well respected among her peers because of it, by men and women. Anja wasn’t a flirt, she was a complete professional, that’s the word that comes to mind when I think about her.... She was one of the most underrated female photographers working out there, she never made it about herself, she never sought the spotlight, but she was respected by her peers.”
“但她的工作证明了自己，她也因此真正受到了同行的尊敬，无论男女。安雅不是个草率的人，她非常专业。这是我想到她时脑子里蹦出来的词……在那里工作的女摄影记者中，安雅是被低估得最严重的人之一。她从不炫耀自己，从不寻求关注，但她受到了同行的尊敬。”
She was long accustomed to the field, and to the dangers getting to it, and back to it. She wrote an essay, ‘Emotions Speak Through Images,’ for Harvard University’s Nieman Foundation for Journalism, in which she wrote of her compassion for civilians she met in Bosnia, Iraq, Gaza and elsewhere. She said she wanted to ‘understand the situation through their eyes’ during an American raid on a house in Baghdad in 2004. But she was also struck by the youth of the American Marines, ‘just out of school, young boys.’
长期以来，她习惯了那片土地，以及去那里和回到那里的危险。在为哈佛大学(Harvard University)的尼曼新闻基金会(Nieman Foundation for Journalism)写的文章《图片传情》(Emotions Speak Through Images)中，尼德林豪斯写到了自己对在波斯尼亚、伊拉克和加沙等地遇到的平民的同情。她说，2004年美国突袭巴格达一栋房屋期间，她想‘透过他们的眼睛了解局势’。但她也被美国海军陆战队(American Marines)中的年轻人打动了，‘刚走出校门的年轻小伙。’
In a passage, she described how after the 2003 invasion of Iraq she slipped across the border from Kuwait into Basra by hiding inside a Kuwaiti fire brigade truck, then joined up with her A.P. colleagues.
在其中一段中，她说起了自己在2003年美国入侵伊拉克后，如何如何藏身于科威特的一辆消防车偷偷越过边境，到达巴士拉，与美联社的同事回合。
“I remember watching a fierce battle around the city’s university. Shells started to land nearby, and most journalists left the scene,” she wrote. “I had just put on my bulletproof vest when another shell landed so close to me that it injured three of my colleagues. I escaped with bruises and was able to drive them to safety in our Jeep, even though it was also hit, and two of its four tires were flat. One of my colleagues, a Lebanese cameraman, had shrapnel close to his heart and was immediately operated on by a British Army doctor in a makeshift tent. We were flown out to Kuwait for further treatment. Three days later I returned to Iraq in a rented Jeep from Kuwait.”
“我记得我们在巴士拉市那所大学周围观察一场激战。我们附近开始落下炮弹，大部分记者都离开了现场，”她写道，“我刚穿上防弹背心，另一枚炮弹就落下来了，炮弹离我非常近，我的三名同事因此受伤。我受了一些擦伤，逃过一劫，还能开车把他们送到安全的地方，尽管我们那辆吉普车也遭到了炮弹的袭击，四个车轮中爆了两个。其中一个同事是一名黎巴嫩籍的摄影记者。弹片留在了他体内离心脏不远的地方，英国陆军的一名医生立即在临时帐篷里为他进行了手术。我们被飞机送到了科威特，接受进一步的治疗。三天后，我从科威特租了一辆吉普车，返回伊拉克。”
Stephen Farrell, a Times reporter, was struck by her speed of thought and resourcefulness during a May 2004 visit to Abu Ghraib prison, when he was working for The Times of London.
《纽约时报》记者斯蒂芬·法雷尔(Stephen Farrell)曾在2004年5月与尼德林豪斯一同前往阿布·加里卜监狱(Abu Ghraib)。期间，尼德林豪斯的思考速度和足智多谋令当时尚就职于伦敦《泰晤士报》(The Times)的法雷尔震惊。
“After the American military finally allowed journalists to visit the prison following the torture and humiliation scandal, it descended into a public relations embarrassment only minutes after the buses entered the prison gates, as scores of Iraqi prisoners gathered at a wire fence across the courtyard just in front of the American, European, Iraqi and journalists. They were shouting their complaints and grievances through loud hailers, desperate to talk to us. Some were waving crutches, and at least one was waving an artificial leg at us in the air.”
“在严刑拷打和侮辱囚犯的丑闻爆出后，美军终于允许记者探访那所监狱。在汽车开进监狱大门仅几分钟后，这次探访就变成了一场公关丑剧，几十名伊拉克囚犯聚集在铁丝网前，铁丝网就在来自美国、欧洲和伊拉克的记者面前那个院子的对面。他们在大声的欢呼中高喊着抱怨和不满，迫切地想和我们说话。一些人挥舞着拐杖，并且至少有一个人在空中向我们挥舞着一条假腿。”
“The American military tried to move the journalists away to speak to American prison commanders and doctors, but Anja, who was standing next to me, reacted on instinct, firing off photographs. We had met several times in Iraq and other places, and knew each other. She didn’t say a word, but I suddenly felt her hand slide into my pocket and drop a camera disk into it. She loaded her camera with another disk, finished her work that day, and retrieved it later.”
“美军试图让记者离开，去和美籍监狱指挥官和医生交谈，但站在我身旁的安雅本能地做出了反应，拍了一些照片。在那之前，我们在伊拉克和其他地方见过几次，都认识对方。她什么也没说，但我突然感觉到她的手伸进了我的衣服兜里，把一张相机存储卡放了进去。她把另一张卡装进了相机，完成了当天的工作，后来从我这里要回了先前那张卡。”
“She was a consummate professional, determined to get the picture, to protect it, and to deliver it.”
“她是个技艺超群的专业人士，一心要拍到照片，保护并发表照片。”
Muhammed Muheisen, spent the day before her death with her, having a home-cooked meal. The Associated Press photographer wrote in an email:
遇害前一天，安雅和穆罕默德·穆海森(Muhammed Muheisen)在一起，吃了一顿家常饭。同为美联社摄影记者的穆海森在一封电子邮件中写道：
“Anja in few words: caring, funny and committed to photography.”
“用几个词描述安雅：关爱、有趣、热爱摄影。”
“I met Anja first time back in 2003 in Baghdad, and immediately we became friends. We took good care of each other back in Baghdad, it was my first war and she did guide me, advise me and always looked after me.”
“我第一次见安雅是2003年在巴格达，我们马上就成了朋友。在巴格达时我们相互照顾，那是我首次做战事报道，她的确给了我引导和建议，总是在关照我。”
“On Wednesday, we spent the whole day together, she was so excited to go to Khost, and I didn’t stop telling her to be safe. Non-stop she would answer me ‘Nie Nie, I will be ok and I want to document the story.’”
“周三，我们一整天都在一起。她对去霍斯特感到很激动，我不停地告诉她注意安全。她也不停地回答说‘尼尼，我会没事的，我想记录下这个故事。’”