SEOUL, South Korea — Facing the threat of North Korea and feeling squeezed by China and Japan on its flanks, South Korea has always dreamed of a “self-reliant” defense force.
韩国首尔——正面遭到朝鲜的威胁，侧翼感到遭受中国和日本挤压的韩国，一直梦想着拥有“自主的”国防力量。
The catchphrase dates to the days of President Park Geun-hye’s father, the military strongman Park Chung-hee, who ruled the country from 1961 to 1979. But in the 21st century, the country faces a crucial hurdle on its road to that goal, as it contemplates its most ambitious and risky defense acquisition project ever: developing an advanced jet fighter and producing 120 units for its air force in addition to many more for export, possibly to the Middle East, Latin America and Southeast Asian countries that want to bolster their air defense against China’s growing military power and territorial claims but cannot afford high-end American jets for cost and other reasons.
这个口号可以追溯到朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)总统的父亲、军事强权统治者朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)在1961至1979年主政时期。但在21世纪，该国却在实现这一目标的道路上遇到了一个重大障碍；韩国正在考虑其最宏大、最冒险的国防采购项目：开发先进的喷气式战斗机，为本国空军配备120架，其他则可能出口到中东、拉美和一些东南亚国家；面对中国日益增长的军事实力和领土要求，这些东南亚国家希望加强自己的防空力量，但又因为成本等原因，买不起高端的美国飞机。
The Korea Fighter Experimental program, or KFX, has been delayed several times in the last decade, and time is running out for a decision.
韩国战斗机实验项目（Korea Fighter Experimental，简称KFX）在过去10年中已被推迟了好几次，剩下的时间已经不多，需要尽快做出决定。
“President Park must make up her mind,” said Cho Jin-soo, president of the Korean Society for Aeronautical and Space Sciences. “South Korea must choose between building its own skills by developing an indigenous model for the first time or settling for a more economic jet by copying the model of an American partner. It can’t have both at the first try.”
“朴总统必须下定决心，”韩国航空航天学会(Korean Society for Aeronautical and Space Sciences)会长赵真洙（Cho Jin-soo，音译）说，“韩国必须做出选择，或者通过自有的第一款本土机型，发展自己的技术，或者通过复制美国合作伙伴的机型，开发一款更经济的喷气式飞机。第一次尝试的时候不可能两者得兼。”
South Korea was the world’s fourth-largest arms importer from 2008 to 2012, consuming 5 percent of imports in the global arms market, which was estimated to be at least $43 billion in 2011, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. With the KFX project, it hopes to leap into the ranks of major arms exporters.
斯德哥尔摩国际和平研究所(Stockholm International Peace Research Institute)的资料显示：2008至2012年期间，韩国是全球第四大武器进口国，占据全球武器市场进口量的5%，2011年至少进口了价值430亿美元的武器。韩国希望凭借KFX项目，跻身武器出口大国的行列。
“The KFX may prove that smaller nations, when combining funds and resources, can produce a near fifth-generation aircraft that approaches the capability of a fighter produced by countries with far greater resources, such as the U.S., Russia and China. But this is unlikely,” Richard Weitz, director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at the Hudson Institute, said in an email. “The KFX, if completed, may be appealing to less wealthy nations who cannot afford the F-35.”
“KFX项目也许可以证明，把资金和资源结合起来，小国也能制造出接近第五代的飞机，性能接近美国、俄罗斯和中国这种大国生产的战斗机。”哈德逊研究所(Hudson Institute)政治军事分析中心的主任理查德·韦茨(Richard Weitz)在一封电子邮件中说。“KFX一旦完成，也许对那些不太富裕、买不起F-35的国家是有吸引力的。”
The KFX was born of an urgent need: The country’s Air Force is aging rapidly. It will start retiring 300 F-4s, F-5s and other jets — all designed more than 50 years ago — in a few years and must replace them fast.
KFX项目是应紧迫的需求而生的：韩国的空军力量正在迅速老化。短短几年内，就会有300架F-4、F-5和其他飞机开始退役——它们采用的都是50多年前的设计——必须尽快进行更新换代。
Under its separate FX-III program, the country announced on Friday that it would buy 40 fifth-generation fighters with “high-capability stealth” radar-evading features, hoping for the first deliveries in 2018. That left Lockheed Martin’s F-35 the only viable contender for the project, which is worth at least 8.3 trillion won, or $7.8 billion, military officials in South Korea said. In September, South Korea ruled that Boeing’s F-15 Silent Eagle, an upgraded version of F-15Ks South Korea already owns, was not sophisticated enough. The Eurofighter Typhoon had also vied for the project.
根据其另立的FX-III项目，韩国上周五宣布将购买40架具有“高性能隐形”雷达躲避能力的第五代战机，首批战机预计在2018年时交付。这样一来，洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)的F-35就成了该项目唯一可行的竞争者；韩国军方官员说，这个项目至少价值8.3万亿韩元（约合人民币475亿元）。今年9月，韩国表示，波音公司F-15沉默鹰式战斗机，即韩国已经拥有的F-15K的升级版，还不够成熟。欧洲台风战斗机也在参与这个项目的竞争。
The nation’s air force also began receiving 60 FA-50 fighters this year. They are basic, light attack jets based on the T-50 Golden Eagle supersonic trainer that Korea Aerospace Industries, the country’s sole maker of military aircraft, developed with Lockheed.
韩国空军今年也开始接收60架FA-50战斗机。这是一种初级的轻型攻击机，是在T-50金鹰超音速教练机的基础上，由韩国航空航天工业公司(Korea Aerospace Industries)与洛克希德合作开发的；前者是韩国唯一的军用飞机制造商。
But South Korea must fill the rest of the fighter jet gap through its KFX program. It envisions a fleet of higher-technology fighters with partial stealth functions, something comparable to “an F-16 designed in the 21st century,” that will fly alongside the country’s F-16s and F-15Ks, plus top-of-the-line fighters purchased under the FX-III program.
不过，韩国必须通过KFX项目来填补剩下的战斗机缺口。该国希望拥有一支技术含量更高的战斗机队，这些战机拥有部分隐形功能，相当于“21世纪的F-16”，能与该国的F-16和F-15K一起飞行，此外再加上FX-III项目购买的顶级战机。
Just how it will do that is a question that has divided the government for more than 10 years.
对于如何做到这一点，韩国政府部门各执己见已经有十多年。
Budget planners and the Korea Institute for Defense Analyses, the country’s main defense research organization, cautioned against developing a brand-new airplane. Instead, it suggested a cheaper, faster and safer alternative: selecting as a partner a “technically advanced country” with a proven model, like the F-16, F-18 or Eurofighter Typhoon, and building a KFX version based on that. Boeing, Lockheed and the Eurofighter consortium have offered updates of those planes as a KFX platform as part of their bidding for the FX-III program.
预算规划部门和该国主要的国防研究机构韩国国防分析研究所(Korea Institute for Defense Analyses)反对开发一款全新飞机，它们提出了一个更便宜、更快、更安全的替代方案：选择“技术先进的国家”作为合作伙伴，在一款成熟的机型，比如F-16、F-18和欧洲台风战斗机的基础上，开发一个KFX版本。波音、洛克希德和欧洲战斗机(Eurofighter)联盟已经表示，作为竞争FX-III项目的组成部分，他们可以更新这些机型，从而提供一个KFX平台。
The Air Force and the Agency for Defense Development, the country’s main defense technology research center, meanwhile, said it was time to develop an indigenous model. South Korea will require whoever wins the FX-III contract to transfer, as part of the deal, some of the technology to the KFX program. In January, the agency unveiled a twin-engine conceptual model for the KFX named C103.
与此同时，韩国空军以及韩国主要的国防技术研究中心——韩国国防发展局(Agency for Defense Development)表示，到了开发一个本土型号的时候了。无论是谁赢得FX-III的合同，作为交易的一部分，韩国都将需要它向KFX项目转让一些技术。今年1月，韩国国防发展局公布了一个双引擎的KFX概念模型，名为C103。
It estimated that 6 trillion won, or $5.6 billion, would be needed to develop such a plane and an additional 8 trillion won, or $7.5 billion, to build 120 units, while the government’s Korea Institute of Science and Technology Evaluation and Planning estimated that the development alone would cost 9.3 trillion won, or $8.8 billion. To disperse the financial risk and lower the unit cost, it invited Indonesia to join the program as a 20 percent partner last year. If South Korea goes ahead with the model, Indonesia will buy 50 planes.
韩国国防发展局估计，开发这样一架飞机将需要6万亿韩元，即56亿美元，而建造120架飞机需要再花8万亿韩元，即76亿美元。与此同时，韩国政府的韩国科学技术评价与计划院(Korea Institute of Science and Technology Evaluation and Planning)估计，单是开发就需要9.3万亿韩元，即88亿美元。为了分散财政风险，降低单位成本，该机构去年邀请印尼加入这个项目，成为拥有20%份额的合作伙伴。如果韩国继续开发这个型号，印尼将购买其中的50架飞机。
Korea Aerospace Industries proposed the KFX-Economy, a cheaper, single-engine option that draws upon technology developed for its FA-50 light fighter, while retaining certain stealth features from the C103. It remains unclear how indigenous the plane will be, given Lockheed’s involvement.
韩国航空宇宙产业株式会社(Korea Aerospace Industries)建议开发KFX-Economy，这是一种更便宜的单引擎飞机，采用了为FA-50轻型战斗机开发的技术，同时保留了C103的某些隐形特性。考虑到洛克希德·马丁的参与，目前仍不清楚该型号将在多大程度上可以算作国产。
“The challenges are finding a technology partner that will share enough of the high-end tech that South Korea will want — and that is a key part of the relationship between FX-III and KFX,” said James Hardy, Asia-Pacific editor at IHS Jane’s Defence Weekly. “South Korea is a very good example of a country that has done a good job of turning transfer of technology into viable defense products.”
《简氏防务周刊》(IHS Jane's Defence Weekly)亚太区编辑詹姆斯·哈迪(James Hardy)称，“韩国面临的挑战是要找到一个合作伙伴，能够分享足够多尖端技术给韩国——这是FX-III和KFX之间关系的一个关键部分。在借助转让来的技术开发出可行的国防产品方面，韩国是做得很出色的。”
South Korea wants to accelerate its defense industry the same way it built its export industries in shipbuilding, car manufacturing and electronics: by first acquiring technological know-how from foreign exporters, then rejiggering or improving upon it.
韩国想要加速国防产业，就像它建立造船、汽车制造和电子的出口产业那样：首先从外国出口商获得技术，然后在其基础上进行调整或改进。
The T-50 and FA-50 are the most recent examples. The country is delivering 16 T-50s to Indonesia this year. The Philippines, one of the countries seeking to bolster itself in the face of any perceived threats from China, is close to a deal to buy 12 FA-50s.
T-50和FA-50就是最新的两个例子。韩国今年将向印尼交付16架T-50。菲律宾是寻求增强自身实力以应对任何觉察中的中国威胁的诸多国家之一，该国接近与韩国达成一份购买12架FA-50的交易。
The global fighter jet industry abounds with failed national jet fighter programs, like Israel’s Lavi, Japan’s F-2 and Taiwan’s Ching Kuo. But Richard Aboulafia, vice president for analysis at the Teal Group, an aviation industry consulting firm, said the KFX could take aim at the global export market for midprice jets in which current models, like the F-16, were leaving production.
全球战斗机行业中不乏失败的国家级战斗机项目，比如以色列的Lavi项目、日本的F-2和台湾的“经国”。但是，航空业咨询公司蒂尔集团(Teal Group)分析副总裁理查德·L·阿布拉菲亚(Richard L. Aboulafia)说，KFX作为针对全球的中价位飞机市场，当前在这个价位的F-16等机型正在逐步停产。
“Everyone is designing expensive, top-end models for a relatively limited pool of customers,” he said. “The world fighter market needs a modern, F-16-class mid-market fighter.”
他说，“人人都在设计昂贵、高端的型号，而客户是相对有限的。世界战斗机市场需要一种现代的、F-16级别的中端市场战斗机型号。”
If it lands the FX-III contract, Lockheed Martin “will provide over several hundred man-years of engineering expertise to assist Korea in the KFX design and development,” said Randy Howard, who is managing the F-35’s campaign for FX-III.
如果得到了FX-III的合同，洛克希德·马丁“将会投入数百人年的工程专家资源，在KFX的设计和开发方面为韩国提供协助”，负责为F-35竞标FX-III的兰迪·霍华德(Randy Howard)说。
Traditionally, South Korea has bought most of its military aircraft, and all of its fighter jets, from the United States, which keeps 28,500 troops in the country. But it has recently tried to diversify beyond American suppliers and encourage domestic production.
传统上，韩国大部分的军用飞机，以及所有的战斗机，都是从美国那买来的。美国在韩国驻扎着2.85万士兵。但是，韩国最近试图在美国的供应商之外寻求更多来源，并鼓励国内生产。
“They are frustrated with the restrictions and terms typically associated with U.S. defense imports, especially limitations on the transfer and resale of U.S. technologies,” Mr. Weitz said in a paper presented at the Korea Economic Institute, based in Washington, this month.
维茨在本月提交给华盛顿韩国经济研究所(Korea Economic Institute)的一篇论文中写道，“由于与美国国防进口有关的限制和条款，尤其是在美国技术转让和转售上的限制，他们感到失望。”
For many South Koreans, the KFX is an object of pride.
对于许多韩国人来说，KFX代表着尊严。
“We have been too dependent on the United States,” Mr. Cho said. “The top priority in the KFX program should be gaining independence in fighter jet technology from the United States.”
赵真洙说，“我们一直太依赖美国了。KFX项目的最高使命应该是在战斗机技术上获得独立，摆脱对美国的依赖。”