As health care costs in the United States rise, an increasing number of Americans are going overseas for elective procedures, or are at least considering that possibility.
随着美国医疗费用的上升，越来越多的美国人正前往海外进行选择性手术，或者至少是在考虑这种可能性。
In response to an article in The New York Times on Sunday about an American who went to Belgium to have his hip replaced because his insurer in the United States would not cover the procedure, hundreds of readers said they would be willing to follow that path.
《纽约时报》周日刊登了一篇文章，讲述一名美国人由于美国保险公司不承担他的髋关节置换手术费用，而前往比利时就医的故事。数百名读者回应本文称，他们也愿意这样做。
Michael Shopenn’s surgery in 2007 would have cost close to $100,000 in the United States. But it cost just $13,660 — including all medicine, doctors’ fees and round-trip airfare — at a private hospital in Torhout, Belgium. The Belgian government regulates medical fees, though most doctors’ offices and hospitals are privately run.
在美国，迈克尔·绍彭(Michael Shopenn)2007年的手术会耗费近10万美元（约合62万元人民币），不过在比利时托尔豪特的一家私立医院，算上全部的药费、医生诊费和来回机票费，只花了13660美元。比利时政府对医疗费用进行监管，尽管多数诊所和医院都是私立的。“In the past few years, Americans are definitely more willing to go overseas and now appreciate that there is quality there, whereas seven years ago they didn’t have that perception,” said Jonathan Edelheit, the chief executive of the Medical Tourism Association, an industry group that supports and facilitates such travel.
医疗旅行协会(Medical Tourism Association)是支持与协助此类旅行的行业团体，协会执行主管乔纳森·埃德海特(Jonathan Edelheit)说，“过去几年，美国人无疑更乐意去海外接受治疗，他们现在也意识到那里的医疗质量很高。七年前，人们就没有这种观念。”
The growing numbers of American medical tourists tend to be people who do not have insurance or whose insurance does not adequately cover the procedure they need. Their destination often depends on their cultural ties, Mr. Edelheit said. Spanish-speaking patients might favor Latin America, for example, he said.
美国的医疗旅行者人数越来越多，他们往往没有保险，或者保险不能很好地承担所需手术的费用。埃德海特称，他们前往的地方往往取决于文化纽带，例如，说西班牙语的患者可能会青睐拉丁美洲。
While five years ago most American patients who went abroad for cheaper care went to countries like India and Thailand and over the border to Mexico, many are now going to Europe, where care at top hospitals frequently costs a fraction of what is charged in the United States. There are private facilitators who help make the arrangements, pairing patients with doctors and hospitals and arranging travel plans.
五年前，大多数去海外寻求廉价医疗的美国患者会前往印度和泰国等地，或者去国境线另一边的墨西哥，现如今，许多人前往欧洲，那里顶级医院的医疗费用往往只是美国收费的一小部分。现在，有私人协调员帮忙进行准备，将患者与医生及医院匹配起来，并安排旅行计划。
In the last few years, governments and hospitals in Europe have entered the field and are now promoting their services.
过去几年间，欧洲政府和医疗机构也进入了这一领域，如今正对他们的服务进行推广。
“The idea is to make it easier for patients from overseas — whether from North America, Russia or the Middle East — to see Europe as a solution because of its high quality and reasonable prices,” said Balazs Stumpf-Biro, the executive director of the European Medical Travel Alliance, an industry group.
行业团体欧洲医疗旅行联盟(European Medical Travel Alliance)的执行主管鲍拉日·施通普夫-比罗(Balazs Stumpf-Biro)说，“背后的理念是，让海外的患者更好地了解到，欧洲质量高、价格合理，是个不错的选择，不管这些患者是来自北美、俄罗斯，还是中东。”
People from the East Coast tend to head to Europe, while many from the West Coast go to Asian countries like South Korea or Thailand, Mr. Stumpf-Biro said. “The numbers are really growing because of the costs in the U.S.,” he added, “but the main driving factor is quality and a common background.”
施通普夫-比罗称，美国东海岸的人通常去欧洲，而许多西海岸的人会去韩国和泰国等亚洲国家。他还补充说，“由于美国的费用问题，人数的确在增长，但主要的驱动因素是医疗质量和共同的背景。”
Dr. Fabrice Gaudot, an orthopedist with a private practice in Paris, said that his clinic treated a lot of foreigners and that the total price for a hip replacement was about $13,000, which he called expensive by French standards. Implant prices are about one-fifth as much in France as in the United States, he said. The patient and the doctor settle on a price and by law must sign a contract before surgery.
法布里斯·戈多博士(Fabrice Gaudot)是在巴黎执业的私人骨科医生。他表示，自己的诊所治疗了许多外国人，而髋关节置换手术的总价约为1.3万美元，按照法国的标准，这个价格很昂贵。他还说，法国进行植入手术的价格约为美国的五分之一。患者和医生谈好价格后，按照法律必须在术前签署合同。
Hospitals in English-speaking countries offer an obvious advantage for Americans. A consortium of hospitals and health care providers in Northern Ireland is exploring setting up a program to attract and treat foreign patients.
英语国家的医院为美国人提供了一个明显的好处。在北爱尔兰，一个由医院和医疗服务公司组成的联盟正在尝试设立一个吸引和治疗外国病人的项目。
But before readers start booking tickets to Europe, they should know that several programs are in the works to lower the cost of joint replacement surgery in the United States. With a huge increase in demand for joint replacements as baby boomers age, holding down costs is important to companies as well as patients.
但是在订票前往欧洲之前，读者们应该知道有几个项目正在进行之中，它们的目的在于降低美国关节置换手术的成本。随着婴儿潮一代逐渐变老，对关节置换手术的需求也开始急速增加，所以降低成本对公司和病人来说都很重要。
The average price of a hip replacement rose from about $35,000 in 2001 to about $65,000 in 2011, according to Truven Health Analytics. The number of such procedures each year for patients under 65, paid for by commercial insurers, rose to about 90,000 from less than 30,000.
根据医疗行业分析机构储文健康分析公司(Truven Health Analytics)提供的数据，一个髋关节置换手术的平均费用从2001年的3.5万美元涨到了2011年的6.5万美元。每年，对于65岁以下的病人，由商业保险公司负担费用的这类手术的数量也由不到3万例增加到了约9万例。
The California Public Employees’ Retirement System set a so-called reference price of $30,000 for joint replacement surgery for those it covers. If patients choose a hospital that charges more, they must pay the difference.
面对自己的成员，加州公共雇员退休系统(California Public Employees’ Retirement System)对关节置换手术设定了一个所谓的参考价格，也就是3万美元。倘若患者选择了收费较高的医院，那么差价就必须由他们自己支付。
A study by James C. Robinson, a health economist at the University of California, Berkeley, that was published on Monday in the journal Health Affairs found that the program was a two-pronged success: a majority of patients chose hospitals that met the price. More important, many hospitals reduced their price so patients would be more likely to choose them.
加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)卫生经济学学者詹姆斯·C·罗宾逊(James C. Robinson)周一发表在期刊《健康事务》(Health Affairs)上的一篇论文指出，这个计划可以一箭双雕：大多数患者会选择收费与上述价格相当的医院。更重要的是，很多医院都降低了费用，这样患者就更可能会选择它们。
In two years, the program saved California $6 million and saved patients $600,000 in costs and co-pays, Dr. Robinson said.
罗宾逊博士说，两年内，该计划为加利福尼亚州节省了600万美元，也在开支和自费部分为患者节省了60万美元。
Medical tourism, it turns out, does not have to be international. (Medicare does not currently cover joint replacements outside the United States.) Some economists point out that health plans in New York City, a relatively expensive market, could save money by sending their patients to Buffalo in limousines.
事实证明，医疗旅行并不一定是国际性的。（联邦医疗保险[Medicare]的范围目前不包括美国境外的关节移植手术。）有些经济学家指出，纽约市的医疗保险提供者（这是一个相对昂贵的市场）可以用豪华轿车把患者送到布法罗，从而节约开支。
Services like MediBid allow patients to shop online for lower-priced medical care, whether local or in another state. Ralph Weber, the chief executive of MediBid, said the service recently sent a patient to Glendale, Calif., for a hip replacement for $14,450 and another to San Antonio for $19,000 — comparable to European rates.
Medibid等服务机构还允许患者上网购买价格较低的医疗保健服务，不论选择在当地还是另一个州。MediBid的首席执行官拉尔夫·韦伯(Ralph Weber)说，他们最近分别把两名病人送到加州格伦代尔和圣安东尼奥接受髋关节置换手术，其花费分别为14450美元和19000美元——与欧洲的价格相近。
“When companies make a large purchase of machines, they ask for a few bids, but that doesn’t normally happen in medicine,” Mr. Weber said. “When providers have to compete with transparency, the rates come in lower.”
“当公司需要购买大批机器时，它们往往会货比三家，但在医药领域却不是这样，”韦伯说。“如果医疗服务提供者必须在透明度方面展开竞争，费用就会降低。”