As the scientists peered into the darkness, their headlamps revealed an eerie sight. Hundreds of eyes glinted back at them from the walls and ceiling. They had discovered, in a crumbling, long-abandoned village half-buried in sand near a remote town in southwestern Saudi Arabia, a roosting spot for bats.
当科学家们向黑暗中窥视时，他们的头灯照射出一副诡异的景象。墙上和天花板上有数百双眼睛在向他们闪烁。他们在沙特阿拉伯西南部的一个偏僻小镇附近发现了一座半掩在沙土中的摇摇欲倒、废弃已久的村子，这个村子是蝙蝠的栖息地。
It was an ideal place to set up traps.
这里是设置陷阱抓蝙蝠的理想地点。
The search for bats is part of an investigation into a deadly new viral disease that has drawn scientists from around the world to Saudi Arabia. The virus, first detected there last year, is known to have infected at least 77 people, killing 40 of them, in eight countries. The illness, called MERS, for Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome, is caused by a coronavirus, a relative of the virus that caused SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome), which originated in China and caused an international outbreak in 2003 that infected at least 8,000 people and killed nearly 800.
抓蝙蝠是对一种新型致命病毒性疾病开展的研究的一部分，该病毒性疾病吸引了世界各地的科学家来到沙特阿拉伯进行研究。这种病毒最早于去年在沙特检出，据悉已经感染了八个国家的至少77人，并造成其中40人死亡。这种疾病被称为MERS，意为“中东呼吸综合征”(Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome)，它是由一种冠状病毒引起的。该冠状病毒和导致SARS（严重急性呼吸道综合征）的病毒相似度很高，后者起源于中国，在2003年引发了全球疫情，感染至少8000人并导致将近800人死亡。
As the case count climbs, critical questions about MERS remain unanswered. Scientists do not know where it came from, where the virus exists in nature, why it has appeared now, how people are being exposed to it, or whether it is becoming more contagious and could erupt into a much larger outbreak, as SARS did. The disease almost certainly originated with one or more people contracting the virus from animals — probably bats — but scientists do not know how many times that kind of spillover to humans has occurred, or how likely it is to keep happening.
随着病例数不断攀升，有关MERS的一些关键问题仍有待解答。科学家们不知道该病毒从何而来，在自然界中存在于何处，为何现在出现，人们如何接触到病毒，也不知道该病毒的感染性是否会增加，进而有可能像SARS那样爆发更大规模的疫情。几乎可以肯定的是，该疾病的起源是一人或多人从动物身上（可能是蝙蝠）感染病毒，但科学家不清楚这种类型的人类感染出现了多少例，也不清楚这种情况继续发生的可能性有多高。
There is urgency to the hunt for answers. Half the known cases have been fatal, though the real death rate is probably lower, because there almost certainly have been mild cases that have gone undetected. But the virus still worries health experts, because it can cause such severe disease and has shown an alarming ability to spread among patients in a hospital. It causes flulike symptoms that can progress to severe pneumonia.
寻找答案迫在眉睫。已知的病例中有一半导致死亡，不过实际的死亡率可能会低一些，因为几乎可以肯定有一些程度较轻的病例并未得到统计。但该病毒仍然让很多卫生专家感到担心，因为它能会引发严重的疾病，在住院病人之间的传播能力也相当惊人。该病毒能引发与流感相似的症状，并能进一步发展为肺炎。
The disease is a chilling example of what health experts call emerging infections, caused by viruses or other organisms that suddenly find their way into humans. Many of those diseases are “zoonotic,” meaning they are normally harbored by animals but somehow manage to jump species.
该疾病是一个令人恐惧的例子，显示了卫生专家们所说的新发传染病的威力。这类传染病是由突然进入人体的病毒或其他微生物导致的。很多类似疾病都是“通过动物传染的”，意味着这些病毒通常由动物携带，但以某种方式跨越物种进入了人体。
“As the population continues to grow, we’re bumping up against wildlife, and they happen to carry some nasty viruses we’ve never seen before,” said Peter Daszak, a disease ecologist and the president of EcoHealth Alliance, a scientific group that studies links between human health, the health of wild and domestic animals, and the environment.
生态健康联盟(EcoHealth Alliance)主席、疾病生态学家彼得·达什亚克(Peter Daszak)说，“随着人口的持续增加，我们不断接触野生动物，而它们正好携带着某种我们从未见过的恶性病毒。”生态健康联盟是一个研究人类健康、野生动物和家畜，以及环境之间联系的科学团体。
Saudi Arabia has had the most patients so far (62), but cases have also originated in Jordan, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates. Travelers from the Arabian peninsula have taken the disease to Britain, France, Italy and Tunisia, and have infected a few people in those countries. Health experts are also worried about the Hajj, the Muslim pilgrimage that will draw millions of visitors to Saudi Arabia in October.
沙特阿拉伯目前出现的患者最多（62人），但约旦、卡塔尔和阿联酋也出现了此类病例。来自阿拉伯半岛的旅行者把该疾病带到了英国、法国、意大利和突尼斯，并感染了这些国家的一些人。卫生专家还很担心麦加朝圣，这一朝圣活动会吸引数百万穆斯林在10月前往沙特阿拉伯。
The illness can be spread by coughs and sneezes, or contaminated surfaces, and people with chronic diseases seem especially vulnerable. More men than women have fallen ill, possibly because women have been protected by their veils. A cluster of cases that began in a Saudi hospital in April ultimately involved 23 people, including several family members and health workers. One man infected seven people, each of whom spread the disease to at least one other person.
这种疾病可以通过咳嗽、打喷嚏、被污染的表面来传播，而患有慢性疾病的人似乎更容易感染这种病毒。患者中男性人数比女性多，可能是因为女性有面纱的保护。从4月开始在沙特一家医院爆发的疫情最终感染了23人，包括若干名家庭成员和医务人员。一名男子传染了七人，这七人中的每个人又至少传染了其他一人。
In May, Saudi health officials asked an international team of doctors to help investigate the hospital cluster. One concern was that a number of cases were in patients at a dialysis clinic, and doctors feared that dialysis machines or solutions might be spreading the disease.
5月，沙特卫生官员邀请国际医务人员小组来协助调查医院感染的人群。当时的一个顾虑是，许多传染病例发生在透析诊所的患者身上，医生担心透析机或透析液可能会传播这种疾病。
“It was pretty easy to figure out that couldn’t have been the case,” said a member of the team, Dr. Connie S. Price, the chief of infectious diseases at Denver Health Medical Center. There were clear cases of transmission in other parts of the hospital that had no connection to dialysis.
这个小组的成员，丹佛健康医疗中心(Denver Health Medical Center)传染病科主任康妮·S·普赖斯(Connie S. Price)说，“很容易看出情况并非如此。”在医院里与透析无关的其他部分，显然也有传播的病例。
Why, then, the outbreak among dialysis patients? The answer seems to be that they were older, chronically ill and often diabetic; diabetes can suppress the immune system’s ability to fight off infections. So, when one dialysis patient contracted MERS, others who happened to be in the clinic at the same were easy targets for the virus.
那么疫情为什么会在需要透析的病人中爆发呢？答案似乎是他们要年长一些，患有慢性疾病，通常患有糖尿病；糖尿病会抑制免疫系统抵抗感染的能力。所以，一名透析患者感染MERS病毒时，其他碰巧在诊所中的人也很容易成为病毒的目标。
“Introducing it into a dialysis center gives it the perfect environment to spread among vulnerable patients sitting in open bays for many hours,” Dr. Price said.
普赖斯说，“被带入透析中心的病毒获得了一个完美的传染环境，能够在数小时里在不设防的患者身上传播。”
Finding out where in the environment the disease is coming from might make it possible to tell people how to avoid it. Bats are the leading suspect, because they are a reservoir of SARS and carry other coronaviruses with genetic similarities to the MERS virus. Bats could be transmitting the disease directly to people, or they might be spreading it to some other animal that then infects humans. But what kind of bat? There are 1,200 species; 20 to 30 have been identified in Saudi Arabia.
找出疾病在环境中的来源，或许能让人们了解如何避免感染。蝙蝠受到的怀疑最多，因为它们是SARS病毒的储主，而且能携带基因与MERS相似的冠状病毒。蝙蝠可以直接把疾病传播给人们，或者它们会把病毒传播给其他能够感染人类的动物。但是哪一类蝙蝠呢？共有1200种蝙蝠，其中在沙特阿拉伯发现了20到30种。
Last October, to test the theory, a team of scientists from the Saudi Ministry of Health, Columbia University and EcoHealth Alliance began scouring Saudi towns near where cases of MERS had been reported, showing people pictures of bats and asking if they had seen any. They struck pay dirt when one man led them to an abandoned village in the southwest, said to be hundreds of years old. It was there, in the inky darkness, that they found a small room that had become the roost of about 500 bats.
去年10月，为了检验这一理论，一组来自沙特卫生部、哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)和生态健康联盟的科学家，开始在报告出现MERS病例的沙特城镇附近进行搜寻，向人们展示蝙蝠的图片并问他们是否见到过。当一个人把他们带到西南部一座据说有数百年历史的被遗弃村庄时，他们发现了自己要找的东西。就是在那里，在一片漆黑当中，科学家们发现了一间栖息着大约500只蝙蝠的小屋。
The scientists set up nets to catch them when they flew out at dusk to hunt insects, then spent the night testing them for the MERS virus. The bats were let go after the testing.
科学家们张起了网，在蝙蝠黄昏时飞出来捕食昆虫时捕捉它们，接下来在夜里检查它们是否携带MERS病毒。蝙蝠在经过检测后会被放走。
It takes about 15 minutes to process a bat — to weigh and measure it, swab it for saliva and feces samples, and collect some blood and a tiny plug of skin from a wing for DNA testing to confirm its species. The specimens were then frozen and sent to the laboratory of Dr. W. Ian Lipkin, a leading expert on viruses at Columbia.
检查一只蝙蝠大约需要15分钟，对其称重并测量，擦下一些唾液和粪便样本，再收集一些血液和翅膀上的一小块皮肤，从而进行DNA检测来确定其物种。这些标本被冷冻起来，并送到W·伊恩·利普金博士(W. Ian Lipkin)的实验室，他是哥伦比亚大学一位领先的病毒专家。
Hundreds of bats have been tested, he said, but it is too soon to disclose the results.
他说，已经有数百只蝙蝠经过了检测，但现在公布结果还为时尚早。
The team has also tested camels, goats, sheep and cats, which might act as intermediate hosts, picking up the virus from bats and then infecting people. One reason for suspecting camels is that a MERS patient from the United Arab Emirates had been around a sick camel shortly before falling ill. But that animal was not tested.
该小组还检测了骆驼、山羊、绵羊和猫，这些动物可能作为中间宿主，从蝙蝠身上感染病毒后传染给人。怀疑骆驼的一个原因是，一名来自阿联酋的MERS患者，在患病前曾在一头患病的骆驼身边待过。但那头骆驼并未接受检测。
Regardless of where they emerge, new illnesses are just “a plane ride away,” said Dr. Thomas Frieden, the director of the C.D.C.
不管这些病毒出现在哪里，新的疾病离我们只有“一趟航班之遥，”美国疾病控制与预防中心(CDC)主任费和平(Thomas Frieden)说。
And while MERS is not highly contagious like the flu, he said, “the likelihood of spread is not small.”
他说，尽管MERS并不像流感一样具有高传染性，但是“传播开的可能性并不小”。