After the killing of 29 people by knife-wielding attackers in a Kunming train station Saturday, articles in the Chinese state news media accused overseas news agencies of failing to label the attack as terrorism. There was also criticism of some foreign governments who were said to have failed, or been slow, to label violent attacks in China as terrorism, when they might do so quickly at home.
周六，一群持刀袭击者在昆明一个火车站砍死了29人。此后，中国国家媒体纷纷发文，谴责海外媒体没有将此次袭击定性为恐怖主义行动。一些外国政府也受到了抨击，据称它们没有将中国的暴力袭击定性为恐怖主义行动，或者定性定得太慢，与此同时，如果事情发生在这些国家境内的话，它们的动作可能会更加迅速。
On Monday, a State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, broke that particular logjam, at least as far as the United States was concerned, when she said at a regular news briefing, “So we are calling this an act of terrorism.”
周一，国务院发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)打破了这个特殊的僵局，至少就美国而言是如此。她在一次例行新闻发布会上说，“那么，我们可以称之为恐怖主义行动。”
She did require some prodding. Asked for comment, Ms. Psaki had initially said:
她的确需要一些推动。收到置评请求的时候，普萨基起初是这样说的：
“Well, we acknowledge that China has characterized the incident as a terror act. We extend our condolences for the loss of life. We of course oppose terrorism in all of its forms, and based on the information reported by the Chinese media, this appears to be an act of terrorism targeting random members of the public. We don’t have any other independent information, but again, we of course deplore violence intentionally directed at innocent civilians in any case, regardless of whether — regardless of the cause. So that is where we are.”
“我们知道，中国已将此事定性为恐怖主义行动。我们哀悼失去的生命。当然，我们反对任何形式的恐怖主义，从中国媒体报道的信息来看，这似乎是一次针对公众、没有特定目标的恐怖主义行动。我们没有其他的独立信息来源，但是我想再次阐明，无论如何，我们当然谴责蓄意针对无辜平民的暴力行为，不论是否——不论原因为何。这就是我们的态度。”
It wasn’t enough for Bingru Wang, of Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV, which is considered friendly to the Beijing government. Ms. Wang asked what the State Department would consider a terrorist attack, which elicited Ms. Psaki’s statement that: “Well, as I mentioned, based on the information reported by the Chinese media, this appears to be an act of terrorism, targeting random members of the public. So we are calling this an act of terrorism.”
然而，对于凤凰卫视驻香港记者王冰汝来说，这样的回答不能让人满意。该电视台据信与北京政府关系不错。王冰汝问，国务院认为怎样的行动才属于恐怖袭击，她的问题引出了普萨基的声明：“正如我刚才所说，从中国媒体报道的信息来看，这似乎是一次恐怖主义行动，针对公众，没有特定目标。那么，我们可以称之为恐怖主义行动。”
Ms. Wang then drew parallels between the United States government’s response to the bombing at the Boston Marathon last year — when three people died, including a Chinese citizen — and its reaction to the Kunming attack: “So when the Boston bombing took place in U.S. last year, you described it as coward act of terrorism. And then there was this attack in Russia last year, you also condemned it as terrorist attack. So this time, when it comes to China, 29 innocent people died. Why, at the first time, the first day, you didn’t — the statement of U.S. Embassy in China, they didn’t describe this as a terror attack?”
之后，王冰汝对比了美国政府对去年波士顿马拉松爆炸事件——事件造成包括一名中国公民在内的三人死亡——的反应和对昆明袭击事件的反应；“美国去年发生波士顿爆炸事件时，你们称之为恐怖主义的懦夫行为。俄罗斯去年发生袭击事件的时候，你们也谴责那是恐怖袭击。这一次中国有29名无辜的人丧生，为什么美国驻华使馆第一天没有将此定义为恐怖袭击？“
Ms. Psaki said: “I don’t have anything to outline for you there other than to convey to you that, of course, we look at every situation separately, and depending on information available. And again, I think I’ve been pretty clear that based on the information available, this appears to be an act of terrorism targeting random members of the public.”
普萨基说，“我没有任何可以向你说明的信息，只能说，当然，我们会对每一个事件进行单独的分析，依据则是可得的信息。重复一遍，我认为我已经说得相当清楚，从可得的信息来看，这似乎是一次针对公众、没有特定目标的恐怖主义行动。”
It was not the first time that the question of when a violent act constitutes terrorism had been raised between China and the United States.
关于暴力活动与恐怖主义行动的界限，这并不是中美两国第一次意见不一。
Ms. Wang also asked why the State Department did not label as a “terrorist act” the case last year involving three people who the Chinese government said were terrorists from Xinjiang and who drove a car into a crowd of passers-by near Tiananmen Square in Beijing. Five people, including the assailants, died, and dozens of others were injured.
王冰汝还问，美国国务院为什么没将去年的那个事件定性为“恐怖主义行动”。当时有三人开车撞进了北京天安门广场附近的一群路人，中国政府称这三人是来自新疆的恐怖分子。事件造成包括袭击者在内的五人死亡，数十人受伤。
Said Ms. Psaki: “I don’t have anything new to tell you about that specific case. Obviously, we’ll look at each situation case by case.” 
普萨基说，“关于你说的那个案例，我没有什么新信息。很明显，我们会具体情况具体分析。”
Meanwhile, the Chinese state news agency Xinhua reported that 20 of the 143 people wounded in the attack on Saturday were in critical condition.
与此同时，中国官方新闻机构新华社报道称，周六袭击事件的143名伤者当中有20人病情危重。