MARK MUNICIPALITY, Sweden — It was a running-away-from-home nightmare for the age of global terrorism. Marilyn Nevalainen, a pregnant teenager, decided to follow her boyfriend last year when he set out to wage jihad, leaving the lakes and forests of southwest Sweden for life under the Islamic State in the desert heat of Iraq.
瑞典马克市——在全球恐怖主义时代，这是一段离家出走的可怕经历。玛丽莲 ·内瓦莱宁(Marilyn Nevalainen)是一名怀孕的少女，去年在男友出发参加圣战的时候，她决定追随其步伐，离开瑞典南部的湖泊山林，前往伊拉克的酷热沙漠地区，在伊斯兰国(Islamic State)的统治下生活。
Apparently lacking any clear idea of what she was getting herself into, she ended up with militants near Mosul, with a new baby to care for and her boyfriend dead on an Iraqi battlefield.
内瓦莱宁显然不清楚她会遭遇什么，她最终加入摩苏尔附近的武装分子，同时还要照顾新生儿，而她的男友战死在了伊拉克战场上。
Remarkably, Nevalainen, now 16, and her infant son made it out alive. Much remains unknown about how she turned up two weeks ago in Kurdish-controlled northern Iraq, and she has not spoken publicly beyond a brief television interview in which she contended that she had followed her boyfriend without knowing “what ISIS means, what Islam is, nothing.” She is now back in Sweden.
不可思议的是，现年16岁的内瓦莱宁和她还在襁褓中的儿子活了下来。她于两周前出现在由库尔德人控制的伊拉克北部地区，但过程不为人知。她除了接受简短的电视采访外，没有公开讲话。内瓦莱宁接受采访时称，她跟随男友前往伊拉克时并不知道“伊斯兰国是什么，伊斯兰教是什么，什么都不知道”。她现在已经回到瑞典。
Europe has been troubled for several years by the number of its young people who have run off to join the Islamic State, and it is increasingly concerned about the potential for them to come home to carry out terrorist acts in their native countries. Nevalainen stands out as a rare case in which a young European went unwittingly into the heart of jihadi territory, ending up with the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, and was freed.
几年来，不少年轻人离开家园加入伊斯兰国，这种情况令欧洲备受困扰，越来越担心他们可能有朝一日回国开展恐怖行动。内瓦莱宁的相关情况非常罕见，从而引人关注。她作为一名年轻的欧洲人，无意中进入圣战分子领地的核心，加入了伊斯兰国，最终却又获得自由。
Her story seems less one of ideology than of teenage rebelliousness and naiveté gone awry in a world where, with a bit of determination, a young woman can travel unchallenged from Sweden to the war zones of the Middle East.
这更多的是一个叛逆、天真的少年误入歧途的故事，而不是有关意识形态的故事。在当今世界，年轻女性凭着一点决心，就可以畅通无阻地从瑞典前往中东战区。
The second of at least four daughters of Pasi and Ann-Kristin Nevalainen, she grew up in a village in Sweden's rural Mark municipality. It was a childhood troubled enough that her family voluntarily placed her in the care of a foster family, according to neighbors and social services officials.
帕西·内瓦莱宁和安-克里斯廷·内瓦莱宁(Pasi and Ann-Kristin Nevalainen)至少有四个女儿，内瓦莱宁是她们的第二个女儿，她在瑞典马克市的乡村地区长大。据邻居及社会服务官员透露，由于孩童时期麻烦不断，父母主动将她送到寄养家庭。
“She was a problem girl,” said a longtime neighbor, who spoke on the condition that she be identified only as Annika. “She didn't like to go to school and the parents tried to help her, but they were too late and she went away. If she didn't get to do what she wanted, she rebelled.”
“她是一个问题女孩，”一名老邻居说。“她不喜欢上学，父母试图帮助她，但为时已晚，她离开了。如果不能做自己想做的事情，她就会反抗。”这名邻居要求称她为安尼卡(Annika)。
Annika knew the Nevalainen family from when they lived in Lekvad, a hamlet of winding gravel roads, vast fields and few people. When night falls, the only lights are from the lanterns on distant farm porches.
安尼卡从内瓦莱宁一家住在乐瓦德时就认识了他们，这个小村庄有着蜿蜒的碎石路和大片的田地，但人很少。夜幕降临时，远处农场入口的灯笼是这里唯一的光亮。
By Nevalainen's account, given on Kurdish television once she was out of the Islamic State's territory, she dropped out of school when she was 14 and fell for her boyfriend, a Muslim from North Africa who was five years older and had immigrated to Sweden on his own by 2012, according to records from the Swedish migration board.
内瓦莱宁离开伊斯兰国的领地后出现在库尔德的电视节目中，她称自己14岁辍学，爱上了比她大五岁的男友。瑞典移民局的记录显示，这名来自北非的穆斯林于2012年独自移民到瑞典。
It was a little less than a year after they met that the pair left for Syria, in the summer of 2015.
两人在认识不到一年后就前往叙利亚，也就是在2015年的夏季。
In a jarring video that appears to be addressed to her parents and was obtained by a Swedish tabloid, the Aftonbladet, a bearded young man who seems to be her boyfriend and identifies himself as Mokhtar Mohammed Ahmed speaks into the camera in Swedish, saying, “You can just forget about this little girl, because she is never coming back.”
瑞典小报《晚报》(Aftonbladet)获得了一段似乎是寄给她父母的视频，在这段令人不安的视频中，一名貌似是她男友的蓄有胡须的年轻男子自称是穆赫塔尔·穆罕默德·艾哈迈德(Mokhtar Mohammed Ahmed)，他在镜头前用瑞典语说道，“你们可以忘了这个小姑娘，她永远不会回去了。”
The circumstances of how she eventually did come back remain unclear. Senior Kurdish officials say she was rescued on Feb. 17 by Kurdish special forces without a shot being fired. The officials said they were able to locate her using information derived from her occasional use of the Internet, but they offered no details.
目前尚不清楚她是如何回到瑞典的。库尔德高层官员表示，2月17日，库尔德特种部队在没有开火的情况下将她救出。这些官员表示，她偶尔使用互联网，他们由此得到一些信息，从而确定了她的位置，但没有透露细节。
A sheikh interviewed in the Kurdish city of Irbil said he had been approached to try to get her out by the girl's uncle, who he said worked for UNICEF. The sheikh said he had received photos of landmarks from Tel Keif, a village near Mosul, that Nevalainen was able to send to identify her whereabouts. He claimed he had been able to arrange her escape with smugglers and was supposed to be paid $35,000. He said that the next thing he knew, he saw the girl on television — and that he had never been paid.
一名部族首领在库尔德城市埃尔比勒接受采访时表示，内瓦莱宁的叔叔曾与他联系，试图救她，她的叔叔为联合国儿童基金会(Unicef)工作。这名部族首领表示，他收到有关摩苏尔附近村庄特凯夫的地标的照片，内瓦莱宁寄出了这些照片，以确认她所在的位置。他称自己能够安排她通过走私者逃离，并应为此获得3.5万美元的酬劳。他表示接下来就在电视上看到了她，没拿到那笔钱。
The release of foreigners by the Islamic State is rare; most cases have involved ransoms. Kurdish officials denied that any ransom was paid, and the Swedish government and the girl's parents have declined to provide any details.
伊斯兰国很少释放外国人；大多数情况都是为了赎金而释放相关人员。库尔德官员否认有人付了赎金，瑞典政府及女孩父母拒绝提供任何细节。