LOUISVILLE, Ky.
肯塔基州，路易斯维尔市(Louisville, Ky.)
INFLUENCED by long-term trends in housing design, communications technology, medical care and the expectations of the largest retiree generation in United States history, the outlines of the next era of American retirement are gaining clarity across the country.
受到住宅设计、通讯科技、医疗水平的长期发展趋势，以及人们对美国即将迎来史上规模最大的一代退休人群的预期所影响，美国人的退休生活在下个时期的面貌如何，正在全国范围内变得越发清晰起来。
In Parker, Colo., 18 miles south of Denver, retirees are proposing what they call a senior cohousing community in a downtown neighborhood. When completed, perhaps next year, it will have shared common spaces for activities and about 40 condominium-style apartments at affordable prices.
在科罗拉多州的帕克镇(Parker, Colo.)，即丹佛市(Denver)以南18英里（约合29公里）处，退休者们正在建议，在镇中心建立一个他们称为高级共同居住区的地方。该项目可能会在明年竣工，届时将会有一些公共空间可以举办活动，还有大约40套售价合理的分户式产权公寓。
In Boston, retirees in 2002 established a nonprofit service organization to provide rides, grocery shopping, repairs and social events for members of the nation’s first urban village.
2002年，波士顿的退休人士建立了一个非盈利性的服务组织，为全美国第一座都市村庄的成员提供驾车接送、日杂代购、修理和社会活动等服务。
Today, according to the Village-to-Village network, a national alliance of such groups, 100  other urban, suburban and rural villages — networks defined by more than geography — have formed nationwide. Members typically pay annual dues of $400 to $600, and some seek to recruit residents who have specific interests in art or music, a trend illustrated in Dustin Hoffman’s 2012 film “Quartet.”
今天，根据村间网络——也就是此类团体的全国联盟统计，已有其它100座位于都市、郊区和乡间的村庄，在全国各地形成。这个网络，已不只是基于地理条件形成的。村民们一般每年支付400至600美元（约合人民币2447至3671元）的费用，有些村庄还会招收在艺术或音乐方面具有特长的居民。达斯汀·霍夫曼(Dustin Hoffman)2012年出演的电影《四重唱》(Quartet)中，就展现了这一趋势。
The Parker and Boston projects reflect two of the most significant priorities that have consistently emerged in surveys of new retirees and adults who are approaching retirement: the desire to stay in one’s home as long as possible and the interest in living in big-city neighborhoods or suburban downtowns.
帕克镇与波士顿的项目，反映出两种最重大的倾向，在针对新退休人员与即将退休的成年人的调查中，这两种倾向多有涉及：尽量长久地住在自己家中的愿望，以及对生活在大都市内社区或城郊市镇中心的兴趣。
“We’re seeing the development of housing networks and social networks and service networks that provide the activities and support for many more people to lead the lives they want in their homes,” said Paul B. Kusserow, senior vice president and chief strategy and corporate development officer for Humana, the large Medicare insurance provider, which is based here.
“我们正在见证住房网络、社交网络和服务网络的发展，这些网络可以提供各种活动，并支持多数人在家里过上他们想要的生活，”保罗·B·库塞罗(Paul B. Kusserow)说。他是当地一家大型医疗保险提供商Humana公司的高级副总裁兼首席战略及合作发展官员。
Recognizing the strength of that trend, which is developing in an era of rising energy costs and static incomes, cities are building new neighborhood infrastructure — transit lines, public markets, parks and denser housing — that is accessible without driving.
很多城市认识到了这一趋势的力量。在一个能源成本和静态收入不断上升的时代，它正在持续发展。于是，这些城市开始新建社区基础设施，包括交通线、公共市场、公园和更为密集的住宅区，即使不开车也能四通八达。
Cincinnati and Grand Rapids, Mich., for instance, are among the dozens of small American cities that are building new rail and rapid bus transit lines that serve the growing number of young professionals, as well as middle-age and older residents moving to their downtowns.
现有数十个这样的美国小城市，正在修建新的铁路和快运巴士通勤线，以服务数量不断增长的年轻职业人，以及中年人和老年居民，让他们可以搬进市中心居住。例如密歇根州的辛辛那提市(Cincinnati, Mich.)和大急流城(Grand Rapids)。
“Young people and old people are sharing some of the same values about neighborhood living,” said Armando Carbonell, chairman of planning and urban form at the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, a research group in Cambridge, Mass. “They share preferences in housing that are showing up in the market. It is a kind of living that is more central city, smaller units for smaller households.”
“对于社区居住条件，年轻人和老年人时常有着同样的价值理念，”马萨诸塞州剑桥镇(Cambridge, Mass.)的一个研究组织——林肯土地政策学院(Lincoln Institute of Land Policy)的城市规划系主任阿尔曼多·卡博内尔(Armando Carbonell)说，“他们对市面上的住宅有同样的偏好，都倾向于那种靠近市中心、适合小家庭的小单元。”
Software developers and engineers say they are making it easier for people to stay in their homes — urban or suburban — by inventing sensors, audio and visual equipment, and communications devices to provide care remotely. Much of the data, video and sound is accessible online, enabling instant contact with residents, and providing peace of mind for friends and family.
软件开发者和工程师说，他们正在努力让无论在城市还是郊区的居民，过上更加轻松的居家生活，方法是发明一些传感器、听觉和视觉设备以及通讯仪器，来为他们提供远程护理。包括视频和音频在内的许多数据都可连网获得，从而能使居民进行即时通讯，令朋友和家人们安心。
“In 20 years, many more people will stay in their homes who need help but don’t need to be in nursing care or assisted living,” said Casey Clements, the managing director of Rest Assured, which installs sensing and communications devices and assigns a trained staff member to provide what it calls telecare from its offices in Lafayette, Ind.
“20年后，还会有更多需要帮助、但并不需要护理或生活辅助的人留在家里，”Rest Assured公司的总经理凯西·克莱门茨(Casey Clements)说。该公司负责安装传感器和通讯设备，并从位于印地安那州拉发叶县(Lafayette, Ind.)的分公司派遣训练有素的员工，来提供被称为电话护理(telecare)的服务。
Founded in 2006 as a division of ResCare, based in Louisville and one of the nation’s largest in-home care providers, Rest Assured serves 600 clients in 16 states for an average cost of $1,100 a month, Mr. Clements said.
Rest Assured公司成立于2006年，是设立在路易斯维尔市的、全美最大的一家居家服务提供商ResCare公司的分公司。Rest Assured在16个州为600位客户提供服务，每月的平均收费是1100美元（约合人民币6732元），克莱门茨说。
“Technology is changing in our favor,” he said. “Costs are coming down and these tools are already easy for clients to operate. We see many, many more people turning to this kind of system so that they can stay in their homes.”
“技术变革正为我们带来好处，”他说，“成本在不断下降，而且这些工具已经能让顾客轻松自如地操作了。我们看到许许多多的人正在借助于这类系统，以便能够留在自己家中生活。”
The goal of remaining at home also has attracted the interest of builders. In 2011, the Lennar Corporation, one of the country’s largest builders, began offering floor plans for new multigenerational suburban houses in California and Arizona that incorporate separate living quarters.
“留在家中”的诉求，也引起了建筑商的兴趣。2011年，全美最大的建筑商之一Lennar公司(Lennar Corporation)开始为加利福尼亚州和亚利桑那州的多代共住式郊区别墅提供楼层方案，将多个独立的居住区纳入考量。
The first-floor apartments — which include small kitchens — initially could be used by a boomerang college student or an aging parent, and then by a live-in caregiver.
位于一层的公寓包括了小面积的厨房——首先可供一位大学走读生居住，或是一位年纪较大的父亲或母亲，此后，还可以让一位居家看护居住。
Master-planned retirement communities, which serve what the market calls “active independent adults,” are being built much closer to downtowns because customer surveys clearly indicate that buyers expect to continue working in their retirement years.
总体规划出的这些退休社区，面向那些被市场称为“活跃的独立成年人”的购房者。这些社区修建在更加靠近市中心的地方，因为很多客户调查都清楚地表明，买家们期望在自己退休后继续工作。
“With future baby boomers working part time, starting new businesses or new careers, it’s not surprising that they want to stay connected to their current community but still take advantage of an active lifestyle,” said Deborah Meyer, chief marketing officer for the PulteGroup, a national home builder based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Pulte is the parent company of Del Webb, which in 1960 founded Sun City near Phoenix, described as the country’s first large-scale, age-restricted retirement community.
“随着生于婴儿潮一代的退休人士在未来转做兼职、自己创业或从事新职业，他们想要既同目前所住的社区保持联系，但仍能得益于一种机动的生活方式的愿望，就一点也不奇怪了，”覆盖全美的住宅建筑商PulteGroup的首席营销官黛博拉·迈耶(Deborah Meyer)说。此公司总部位于密歇根州的布卢姆菲尔德山城(Bloomfield Hills)，是Del Webb的母公司。后者于1960年成立于凤凰城(Phoenix)附近的太阳城(Sun City)，被形容为全美第一家有年龄限制的大型退休社区。
Few places in the United States are studying the stages of aging, market trends and housing more intently than Louisville, a northern Kentucky city of 602,000 residents.
在美国，没有什么地方比肯塔基州北部的路易斯维尔这个拥有60.2万居民的城市，更加专注于研究老龄化的不同阶段、市场趋势及相应的住宅措施。
In the last two decades a thriving “aging and wellness” sector developed here, with health professionals and business executives from leading companies in insurance, senior housing, medical devices, software and nursing care. It employs about 20,000 people, according to city figures.
过去二十年来，一个蓬勃兴旺的“养老与保健”产业在这里发展起来，云集了来自保险业、高级住宅、医疗设备、软件开发和健康护理等行业内领先企业的众多健康专家同商业领袖。根据该市数据统计，此行业的就业者约有2万人。
Much of the research and business models under development in Louisville focus on what some specialists call the outsourced wing of the retirement and health sector, where retirees rely on others providing services: assisted living, nursing care, hospitalization and rehabilitation.
在路易斯维尔市，大多数正在不断发展着的研究和商业模式，都聚焦于被一些专家称为退休与健康领域的“外包翅膀”这方面，也就是退休者依赖其他人提供服务，包括辅助生活、护理照顾，住院治疗及康复。
The ideas being tested and deployed here encompass things like the colors of the paint, carpet and fabrics used in Signature Healthcare’s state-of-the-art nursing facilities, online-guided robots for remote doctor visits and high-definition communication systems in the Trilogy Health Service assisted-living centers here.
一些理念在其中得到了检验和施展，包括诸如Signature Healthcare公司推出的技术最先进的护理设施上所用的油漆、地毯和织物的颜色，以及便于医生远程问诊的一些在线指导机器人，还有本地的Trilogy Health Service辅助生活中心所采用的高清通讯系统。
Such innovations are also applicable in many other settings, said John P. Reinhart, president and chief executive of InnovateLTC, a research and marketing group. Established with seed funding from the state, Signature Healthcare and the University of Louisville, InnovateLTC fosters marketing and collaboration among companies based here — the corporate hub of the nation’s largest cluster of service companies for the aging, with revenue exceeding $44 billion annually.
这样的发明也被应用于其它很多地方，一家市场调研机构InnovateLTC的总裁和首席执行官约翰·P·莱因哈特(John P. Reinhart)说。依靠来自州政府的种子基金，Signature Healthcare与路易斯维尔大学(University of Louisville)及InnovateLTC公司一起，在本地多家公司之间培育起市场营销与合作关系——成为全国最大的老年人服务公司群的合作中心，年收入超过440亿美元（约合人民币2692亿元）。
Nearly 42 million people in the United States are 65 or older, according to the Census Bureau. By 2050, one of every five Americans — 88.5 million people — will be 65 or older, according to a 2009 study by the Congressional Research Service. In 1950, 12.4 million Americans were 65 or older, or fewer than one in 12 American citizens.
根据人口调查局的数据，美国有将近4200万人的年龄已达到或超过65岁。而根据国会研究服务部(Congressional Research Service)的调查，到2050年，将有五分之一的美国人——也即大约8850万人，年龄达到或超过65岁。而在1950年时，65岁及以上的美国人口为1240万，或说不到美国公民人口总量的十二分之一。
“We already know that in a decade there won’t be enough caregivers to help the number of retirees that need support,” Mr. Reinhart said. “We’re finding other ways to interact and provide care. That involves new technology. It also involves new ways to organize ourselves in neighborhoods and new relationships with people to provide care. We are going to develop a new definition of who we consider family.”
“我们已经知道，十年后，护理人员将出现短缺，无法为全部有需求的退休者提供帮助，”莱因哈特说，“我们正在寻找其它措施影响和提供照料。这就涉及到新技术的运用。它还涉及社区居民自我管理的新方式，以及与服务提供者之间形成的新关系。我们将逐渐以一种新的思维，来定义我们所认为的家庭成员。”
The influence of Louisville’s wellness sector has permeated surprising corners of this city’s business community, like interior design.
路易斯维尔市保健产业的影响已经深入到该市商业领域中很多让人意想不到的角落，比如室内设计。
Douglas Riddle, a designer and president of Bittners, an upscale furnishings and custom-crafted furniture company founded here in 1854, has helped several clients “build a house they tell me they’re determined to be carried out of.”
道格拉斯·里德尔(Douglas Riddle)是1854年成立的高端家具与定制家具公司Bittners的设计师兼总裁，已经协助几位客户“建起一座他们告诉我说打算住到被抬着出来的房子”。
Mr. Riddle counsels clients and their architects on incorporating wider doors, fabric patterns and colors that will not confuse people with memory loss and dementia, and even extra studs in bathroom walls for the day when handrails are needed.
里德尔为客户及其建筑设计师提供咨询，他的建议包括开设更宽敞的大门，注意让房间内的面料图案和色彩不会令患有失忆症和痴呆症的老人弄混，甚至还有在浴室墙上加装一些金属杆，以备住户有朝一日需要扶手时使用。
“I have several clients who are physicians,” Mr. Riddle said. “I ask them questions about what to anticipate, and I’ve developed expertise in designing homes for people who really mean it when they say they won’t be leaving.”
“我有几位客人是内科医生，”里德尔说，“我问了他们许多关于预期的问题，我在为一些客户设计住宅时也积累了专业知识。当这些人说自己不想离开这里的时候，他们是真心的。”
For people who need more care, Louisville is thinking about that, too. One leading company in the aging sector here is Atria Senior Living, founded in 1998, which owns and manages 127 retiree or assisted-living communities. 
对于那些需要更多护理服务的老人，路易斯维尔市也有所考虑。Atria Senior Living是当地养老业的一家龙头企业，创建于1998年，拥有并管理着127个退休或辅助生活社区。
One of its newest centers is Atria on the Hudson in Ossining, N.Y., a community where residents in one- and two-bedroom units share so many places to meet and muse — cafes, a library, a theater, gardens — that the campus resembles a pedigree prep school.
该公司最新创建的中心之一，是位于纽约州奥辛宁市(Ossining)哈得逊河(Hudson)边的Atria。该社区的居民们住在一居室或两居室的单元中，有很多公共空间可以用来聚会或沉思，包括一些咖啡馆、一座图书馆、一座剧院和一些花园。整个社区，就像一所具备优良传统的预科学校。
Another Atria community is West 86, a luxury retiree residence on Manhattan’s Upper West Side that provides owners access to three restaurants, a spa, rooftop fitness center, a library and numerous cultural and social events.
Atria旗下的另一个社区位于曼哈顿上西区，是一处奢华的退休者住宅小区“西86号”(West 86)。其中配备了三家餐厅、一家水疗中心、一个屋顶健身中心、一家图书馆，还有数不清的文化社交活动。
“What we’ve done in both residences is respond to a need in the market that will only grow,” said Mark Alexander, Atria’s senior vice president for redevelopment.
“我们在这两处社区中所做的事是为回应市场需求，这种需求只会不断增长，”Atria公司再开发部的高级副总裁马克·亚历山大(Mark Alexander)说。
Masonic Homes of Kentucky, based in Louisville, takes a more comprehensive approach. Its Continual Care Retirement Community mixes a multistory condominium for younger and active retirees with assisted living, skilled nursing and rehabilitation centers on a campus close to the city’s center.
肯塔基州的共济会之家(Masonic Homes)坐落于路易斯维尔市，他们采取了一种更具全局眼光的方式。他们的长期护理退休社区(Continual Care Retirement Community)，将一栋供比较年轻和活跃的退休者居住的高层分户式产权公寓楼，同生活辅助、熟练护理服务及一家康复中心都纳入到一处靠近市中心的片区里。
The idea is that active residents have easier access to the city’s arts and recreational institutions and will never have to move again as they age.
其理念就是，活跃的居民更易光顾这座城市的艺术与休闲娱乐场所，而等他们年老之后，也不必再搬家了。