CAPE TOWN — MEMBERS of the African Union will meet in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, today to discuss recent calls by some African leaders to withdraw from the International Criminal Court. These calls must be resisted. The continent has suffered the consequences of unaccountable governance for too long to disown the protections offered by the I.C.C.
开普敦——非洲联盟(African Union)成员国本周将齐聚埃塞俄比亚首都亚的斯亚贝巴，就某些非洲国家领导人要求退出国际刑事法院（International Criminal Court，简称ICC）一事展开讨论。我们必须抵制此类要求。这片大陆已经忍受了太长时间不负责任的统治，不能再失去国际刑事法院提供的庇护。
Those leaders seeking to skirt the court are effectively looking for a license to kill, maim and oppress their own people without consequence. They believe the interests of the people should not stand in the way of their ambitions of wealth and power; that being held to account by the I.C.C. interferes with their ability to achieve these ambitions; and that those who get in their way — the victims: their own people — should remain faceless and voiceless.
这些领导人试图摆脱国际刑事法院，从而可以肆无忌惮地杀戮、残害和压迫自己的子民，而不必承担任何后果。在他们看来，民众的利益不应成为他们实现其财富与权力野心的绊脚石。而国际刑事法院对其责任的追究则干扰了他们实现这些野心的能力。而那些妨碍他们的人——受害者，即他们的国民——应继续沉默下去。
Most of all, they believe that neither the golden rule, nor the rule of law, applies to them.
他们甚至认为，不管是道德准则还是法治，对他们来说都没有意义。
But they know that they cannot say these things in public without repercussions. Instead, they conveniently accuse the I.C.C. of racism.
但是他们清楚，不能明目张胆地把这些想法说出来，那样必会招来反对。于是他们借种族歧视这个借口指责起国际刑事法院。
At first glance, the claim might seem plausible. The I.C.C., founded in 2002 and based in The Hague, has so far considered only cases against Africans. But this is partly because independent tribunals that were established to handle cases concerning the former Yugoslavia, Cambodia and other countries have naturally led to a reduction in the scope of the court’s activities.
乍一看来，这个指责似乎站得住脚。自2002年成立以来，总部设在荷兰海牙的国际刑事法院所审理过的案件全部针对非洲国家。但其中部分原因是，为了审理前南斯拉夫，柬埔寨及其他国家相关的案件，国际社会建立了独立的法庭，这自然而然地压缩了该法院的审理范围。
So far, 32 people have been publicly indicted by the court, with only one conviction, of Thomas Lubanga, for war crimes in the Democratic Republic of Congo. But many of the investigations were not initiated by the court or a foreign body; they were referred to the court by African governments themselves. The judges and investigators were invited in.
截至目前，该法院已经公开起诉了32人，只有托马斯卢班加(Thomas Lubanga)一人被判在刚果共和国（Democratic Republic of Congo，简称：刚果[金]）犯下战争罪。但其中许多调查并非由国际刑事法院或外国机构发起，而是由非洲国家政府自己移交至国际刑事法院的。这些国家的法官和调查人员也受邀参与调查。
So the African focus of the court should not be seen as an indictment of its neutrality but of the quality of leadership and democracy in many African countries. When thousands of people are murdered and displaced in any country, as in Sudan, for instance, ideally the country’s own system of justice will redress the wrongs. That is not in dispute. But when that country is unwilling or unable to restore justice, as is the case in many African countries, who should represent the interests of the victims? Critics of the I.C.C. say, “Nobody.” They simply vilify the institution as racist and unjust, as Hermann Göring and his fellow Nazi defendants vilified the Nuremberg tribunals following World War II.
因此该法院的指控多针对非洲国家这一事实不应被用来质疑法院的中立性，相反，这恰恰反映出许多非洲国家的领导和民主机制的糟糕状况。当一个国家数以千计的子民遭到杀戮或被迫流离失所时，比如苏丹，这个国家自己的司法体系本应能够纠正此类暴行。这一点不容质疑。但是当这个国家不愿意或没有能力匡扶正义时，就像许多非洲国家那样，该由谁来维护受害者的利益呢？国际刑事法院的批评者们说：“没人”。这些批评者只是一味污蔑该法院奉行种族歧视且缺乏公正，就像二战结束后赫尔曼·戈林(Hermann Göring)及其纳粹被告同伙们污蔑纽伦堡法庭(Nuremberg tribunals)那样。
While some African leaders play both the race and colonial cards, the facts are clear. Far from being a so-called white man’s witch hunt, the I.C.C. could not be more African if it tried. More than 20 African countries helped to found the I.C.C. Of the 108 nations that initially joined the I.C.C., 30 are in Africa. Five of the court’s 18 judges are African, as is its vice president, Sanji Mmasenono Monageng of Botswana. The court’s chief prosecutor, Fatou Bensouda, who has huge power over which cases are brought forward, is from Gambia. The I.C.C. is very clearly an African court.
尽管一些非洲国家领导人大打种族歧视和殖民主义牌，事实却很清楚。国际刑事法院不仅不是所谓的实施政治迫害的白人工具，反而充满了非洲色彩。20多个非洲国家帮助建立了国际刑事法院。最初加入该法院的108个国家中，30个为非洲国家。法院18位法官中，5人来自非洲，其中包括来自博茨瓦那的法院副院长莫纳根(Sanji Mmasenono Monageng)。对提交哪些案件具有重要决定权的法院首席检察官法图·本苏达(Fatou Bensouda)则来自冈比亚。国际刑事法院显然就是个非洲法院。
Leaving the I.C.C. would be a tragedy for Africa, as leaders like the former United Nations secretary general Kofi Annan, of Ghana, have noted. Without its deterrence, countries could and would attack their neighbors, or minorities in their own countries, with impunity. Two years ago, when the warlord Thomas Lubunga was arrested to face charges of enlisting and conscripting child soldiers, the threat of the I.C.C. undermined his support from other militias. After the Ivory Coast strongman Laurent Gbagbo was taken to face justice in The Hague, the country was able to rebuild.
正如来自加纳的联合国前秘书长科菲·安南(Kofi Annan)所说的，退出国际刑事法院对非洲而言会是一场灾难。没有了该法院的威慑力，该地区的国家便可以毫无顾忌地侵袭邻国及其本国内的少数民族。两年前，军阀托马斯·卢班加因招募和使用儿童兵的指控而被捕时，国际刑事法院的威慑作用削弱了其他武装组织对他的支持。科特迪瓦(Ivory Coast)前总统洛朗·巴博(Laurent Gbagbo)被押至海牙(The Hague)受审后，这个国家才得以重建。
Without this court, there would be no brake on the worst excesses of these criminals. And these violent leaders continue to plague Africa: the Great Lakes, Mali, northern Nigeria and Egypt all give reason for concern. Perpetrators of violence must not be allowed to wriggle free.
没有国际刑事法院，此类恶劣至极的罪行将永无休止。暴君们仍在祸害非洲：大湖区(Great Lakes)、马里、尼日利亚的北部地区和埃及的状况都令人担忧。我们决不能让施暴者逍遥法外。
Moreover, where justice and order are not restored, there can be no healing, leaving violence and hatred ticking like a bomb in the corner. We know too well that long, painful road to healing in South Africa, as do the people of Kenya. As Africa begins to find its voice in world affairs, it must strengthen its commitment to the rule of law, not undermine it. These principles are part of our global moral and legal responsibility, not items from a menu we can choose only when it suits us.
此外，如果正义和秩序得不到恢复，创伤就无法愈合，而暴力和仇恨就会像角落里的定时炸弹滴滴作响。我们对南非及肯尼亚人民为治愈创伤所经历的漫长而痛苦的过程感同身受。如今，非洲在国际事务中正开始发出自己的声音，它必须不断强化而不是削弱其法治承诺。这些原则是是全球道义和法律责任的一部分，而非我们可以依自身口味选择的菜肴。
Along with thousands of others, I have joined a campaign by Avaaz, an international advocacy group, calling on Africa’s leaders to stay in the I.C.C. The alternatives are too painful: revenge, like what happened in Rwanda, Kosovo and Bosnia, or blanket amnesty and a national commitment to amnesia, like what happened in Chile. The only way any country can deal with its past is to confront it.
同数千人一道，我加入了国际倡议组织Avaaz发起的活动，呼吁非洲领导人们不要退出国际刑事法院。其他的选项都会带来太多痛苦：要么选择复仇，像卢旺达、科索沃和波斯尼亚那样，要么像智利那样，选择特赦和集体忘记过去。而一个国家要想处理与过去的关系，唯一办法就是直面过去。
We need loud voices in Addis Ababa to deliver this message, to shout down those who want us to do nothing. We also need the continent’s heavyweights, Nigeria and South Africa, to exercise leadership and stop those who don’t like the rules from attempting to rewrite them. Far from a fight between Africa and the West, this is a fight within Africa, for its soul.
我们需要在亚的斯亚贝巴会议上发出强有力的声音来传达这个信息，用喊声压倒那些想让我们无所作为的人。我们也需要这片大陆上的大国，如尼日利亚和南非，发挥领导作用并阻止某些人修改他们所不喜欢的规则。这场战斗不是非洲与西方之战，而是非洲内部的灵魂之战。