The Brexit ballot puts one of democracy’s riskiest tools, the referendum, to the test.
就英国退出欧盟举行的投票，正在考验民主最危险的工具之一——公投。
The British people are voting on whether to leave the European Union. The betting markets and the financial markets are both signaling that the country will vote to stay. But even if Britain rejects Brexit, as leaving the European Union is known, the very act of holding a referendum will come in for criticism.
英国民众正在投票表决是否退出欧盟（本文英文版发表于公投结果公布前——编注）。博彩市场和金融市场均显示，该国会投票支持留下。但即便英国否决了退出欧盟的提议，举行公投这个行为本身也会受到指责。
In a single-issue vote, a small number of people can change the course of an entire country for generations. All it would take is a simple majority of Britons to throw Europe into turmoil with a vote to leave. This problem is made much worse if turnout is low.
在就单一问题举行的投票中，一小部分人可能会影响一个国家几代人的际遇。只需简单多数的英国人投票支持退出，便可让欧洲陷入混乱。投票率低的话，这个问题会进一步恶化。
Referendums can also distill complex issues into a simplistic choice, stoking a harsh type of populism. Critics of California’s habit of holding single-issue ballots point to votes that limited increases in property taxes and introduced the “three-strikes” minimum sentencing law. And a leader may hold a referendum for expedient political reasons — an accusation made against David Cameron, Britain’s prime minister — rather than for the good of the country.
公投还会把复杂的问题变成一个过分简单的选择，引发一种强烈的民粹主义。抨击加利福尼亚州习惯举行单一问题投票的批评人士，指向了限制增收财产税和推行“三振”最低量刑法的那些投票。领导人可能是出于政治私利——英国首相戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)便受到了这样的指控——而不是为了国家而举行公投。
Then there’s the democratic argument against referendums: The electorate already gets a chance to vote on big issues in a general election. In recent years, neither of Britain’s two main political parties has run on a platform that includes leaving the European Union, and voters have repeatedly backed them to form governments. Also, a large proportion of current members of the British Parliament want Britain to remain in the union. This could cause a mess if Britain votes to leave. In such an outcome, politicians who favor Brexit are expected to take power. But the mostly pro-Europe Parliament might not support those leaders, leading to a period of turmoil and paralysis.
然后，便是反对公投的民主理由：选民已经有机会在大选中对重大问题进行表决。近年来，英国两大政党竞选时提出的施政纲领均不包括退出欧盟，选民仍一再支持它们组建政府。而且，大量现任下议院议员希望英国留在欧盟。如果英国投票决定退出，可能会造成混乱。如果出现这种结果，支持英国退出欧盟的政治人物预计会掌权。但大部分成员亲欧洲的议会可能不支持那些领导人，导致出现一个混乱和瘫痪期。
Pretty ugly. So why might holding the ballot be worth these risks?
很可怕。那么，为何值得冒着这些风险举行投票呢？
Two reasons: A vote is overdue, and the British people seem to want the opportunity to vote on Europe separately from a general election.
原因有二：早该举行投票了，并且英国民众似乎希望有机会在大选之外单独就欧洲进行表决。
The last time Britain held a referendum on Europe was over 40 years ago. Since then, much has changed in Britain’s relations with what became the European Union. Other countries, including France in 2005, got a chance to vote on important changes, but Britain did not till now.
英国上一次就欧洲问题举行公投是在40多年前。自那以后，英国与欧盟的前身的关系发生了很大的变化。其他国家均有机会对重要变化进行表决，包括法国2005年的投票，但英国一直没有。
And it appears that turnout will be particularly strong for the Brexit vote, as was the case for Scotland’s vote in 2014 on whether to remain part of Britain.
同时，英国退出欧盟投票的投票率似乎会特别高，就像苏格兰2014年投票决定是否留在英国一样。
Such referendums may appeal to voters because they offer the freedom to go against the position held by the political party they normally support. In the Brexit vote, for instance, 32 percent of voters who backed the pro-Europe Labor Party at the last general election say they will vote to leave, according to a YouGov poll conducted in the last few days. And 41 percent of backers of the Conservative Party, in which there is considerable hostility toward the European Union, said they would vote to stay.
这种公投可能会吸引选民，因为公投让他们可以自由地反对自己通常支持的政党的立场。比如，过去几天进行的一项YouGov民调显示，在英国退出欧盟投票中，上一次大选中支持亲欧洲的工党(Labor Party)的选民中32%的人表示将投票支持退出。而对欧盟有很大敌意的保守党(Conservative Party)的支持者中41%表示会投票支持留下。
In some ways, it might appear that the plebiscite has encouraged people to adopt Manichaean views, particularly on immigration. A new Ipsos MORI poll shows that concern about immigration rose significantly as the vote approached.
在某种程度上，全民公决似乎鼓励人们采取摩尼教式的观点，特别是在移民问题上。Ipsos MORI进行的一项新调查显示，随着公投的临近，对移民问题的担心显著增加。
But the YouGov poll found that concerns about the economy and sovereignty were dominant. The poll asked which one issue would play the biggest role in deciding how the respondents intended to vote in the referendum. A third said their biggest consideration was what would be best for jobs and the economy, while 29 percent said they would choose mainly on the basis of what would best allow Britain to balance sovereignty and cooperation with other countries. Only 18 percent said immigration was the most important issue.
但YouGov的调查发现，对经济和主权的担心仍占据主导地位。该调查的问题包括，哪个问题对受访者在公投中的选择影响最大。三分之一的人表示最大的担心是什么有利于就业和经济，29%的人表示考虑的是怎样最有利于让英国在主权和与其他国家的合作之间找到平衡。只有18%的人表示移民是最重要的问题。
The Brexit referendum has been bruising for Britain. But it’s hard to say it was bad for its democracy.
就退出欧盟举行的公投让英国阵阵作痛。但很难说它是否对英国的民主不利。