London — THE problem with spending your whole life pretending to be a buffoon is that eventually people start to believe you.
伦敦——一辈子装成小丑，到头来别人就会相信你是小丑。
Back in April, when the possibility of Britain actually voting to leave the European Union seemed remote, two newspapers commissioned a poll asking which political figure readers would most like to dine with. Boris Johnson, who had recently announced his support for Brexit, was the winner by a wide margin: 38 percent of respondents said they’d prefer his company, compared with 18 percent for the Labour Party leader, Jeremy Corbyn, and just 12 percent for the Conservative prime minister, David Cameron.
4月的时候，英国投票选择离开欧盟看上去还是很遥远的事，两家报纸进行了一次民调，询问读者最愿意跟哪个政治人物一起吃个饭。当时刚刚宣布支持英国脱欧的鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)优势明显：38%的受访者选了他，工党领袖杰里米·科尔宾(Jeremy Corbyn)是18%，保守党首相大卫·卡梅伦(David Cameron)只有12%。
This morning, I found myself wondering how many had changed their minds, for Mr. Johnson — or Boris, as he’s universally known here — now seems more like the sort of date who’d order a lavish meal and the best wine on the menu and then walk out, leaving his companions with the check.
今天早上我在想，不知道有多少人改变了主意，因为现在的约翰逊——或者按这里人的习惯，叫他鲍里斯——看上去更像点了一顿大餐，要了店里最好的酒，然后起身走人，让同伴去买单那种人。
A week ago Britain had the fifth largest economy in the world. By the weekend, after Britons had voted by a margin of 52 percent to 48 percent to leave the European Union, it had slipped to sixth place, behind France. Mr. Cameron, who had staked his political future on the vote, resigned.
一周前英国是世界第五大经济体。到周末，英国人以52%对48%的结果决定脱离欧盟后，英国跌到第六位，排在法国后面。将个人政治前途系于此次投票的卡梅伦宣布辞职。
His successor, it was widely assumed, would be Boris Johnson.
他的继任者被普遍认为将是鲍里斯·约翰逊。
The tousled blond figurehead of the Leave campaign had been seen as prime minister in waiting since his return to Parliament last year. He and Michael Gove — like Mr. Johnson, a journalist turned Tory politician — were the intellectual heavyweights of the campaign, widely expected to become next-door neighbors in government, with Mr. Johnson as prime minister at No. 10 Downing Street and the Goves in No. 11, the residence of the chancellor of the Exchequer.
这位一头蓬乱金发的脱欧阵营名义领袖去年重回议会，此后一直被当成候任首相。他和同为记者出身的保守党人迈克尔·戈夫(Michael Gove)，是本次脱欧运动中的两个重量级知识分子，人们普遍认为他们将成为邻居，约翰逊作为首相在唐宁街10号，戈夫一家住在11号财政大臣官邸。
The Goves had other ideas.
戈夫一家不是这么看。
On Wednesday, Mr. Gove’s wife, Sarah Vine, a columnist for The Daily Mail, inadvertently leaked an email indicating her distrust of Mr. Johnson. “You MUST have SPECIFIC assurances from Boris OTHERWISE you cannot guarantee your support,” she admonished her husband. She also reminded him that both Paul Dacre, The Mail’s powerful editor, and Rupert Murdoch “instinctively dislike Boris but trust your ability enough to support a Boris Gove ticket.” (Before he became a member of Parliament, Mr. Gove was an editorial writer for Mr. Murdoch’s Times).
周三，戈夫的妻子、《每日邮报》(Daily Mail)专栏作者莎拉·瓦因(Sarah Vine)无意中泄露了一封电邮，从中可看到她对约翰逊的不信任。“你一定要让鲍里斯做出具体的保证，否则你不能承诺支持，”她告诫自己的丈夫。她还提醒他，无论是影响力巨大的邮报主编保罗·戴克尔(Paul Dacre)还是鲁珀特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)都“对鲍里斯有种本能的不信任，但他们信任你的能力，这足以促使他们支持鲍里斯-戈夫的竞选组合。”（在成为议员之前，戈夫曾在默多克的《泰晤士报》任社论主笔）。
Yet in her own column that day, Ms. Vine gave no hint that Mr. Gove had any plan to supplant Mr. Johnson as favorite to be the next Conservative leader and prime minister. The same could hardly be said of Boris, whose ambition was as broad as his indiscretions.
然而在当天她的一篇专栏中，瓦因丝毫没有表露出戈夫有意取代约翰逊，成为下一任保守党领袖和首相的大热人选。鲍里斯可不是这样，他的言行和他的野心一样毫无拘束。
Playing the clown served Mr. Johnson well, though. It created a cushion of public indulgence around his persona, even as the Old Etonian plotted his next career move. The young reporter who was fired by The Times in 1988 for fabricating a quotation became the editor of The Spectator in 1999. The newspaper columnist who in 2002 wrote scornfully of “flag-waving piccaninnies” with “watermelon smiles” was elected mayor of one of the most diverse and cosmopolitan cities in the world in 2008.
不过，小丑的形象对他是颇有帮助的。靠着这一点，这位“老伊顿生”（指曾在伊顿公学就读的人。——译注）在其表象人格周围创造了一个保护层，赢得了公众对他的迁就，即便在他精心谋划政治生涯下一步时都是如此。1988年因编造引语被《泰晤士报》解雇的年轻记者约翰逊，在1999年成为《旁观者》(The Spectator)杂志主编。2002年轻蔑地写下“挥舞旗帜的黑小子”、“笑起来像西瓜”等句的报纸专栏作家约翰逊，2008年当选世上最多元、最国际化的城市的市长。
Along the way, he fathered two children out of wedlock. In 2013, an Appeal Court castigated him for the “reckless” conduct of his “philandering.”
这期间，他还养育了两个婚外子女。2013年，一家上诉法庭痛斥他“无所顾忌”地“玩弄女性”。
We can’t say we weren’t warned. When Mr. Johnson took over at The Spectator, his friend and biographer, the political journalist Andrew Gimson, remarked that it was like “entrusting a Ming vase to an ape.” Somehow, though, none of the buffoonery or scandal slowed him down. It was just Boris being Boris.
我们不是没收到过警告。约翰逊接掌《旁观者》的时候，他的朋友、传记作家、政治记者安德鲁·吉姆森(Andrew Gimson)评价说，这就像“把一只明代花瓶托付给一只猿猴”。然而，其令人捧腹的行径或丑闻居然都没能对他形成什么妨碍。因为，鲍里斯不就这副德性么。
He even got away with an extraordinary degree of flip-flopping on Brexit: from “finely balanced” in February to all-out in April to his latest, post-referendum column for The Daily Telegraph, in which he assured readers that “Britain is part of Europe, and always will be.”
他甚至可以公然在英国脱欧的问题上出尔反尔：从2月的“微妙平衡”，到4月的全面支持脱欧，再到公投后发表《每日电讯报》(The Daily Telegraph)专栏，向读者保证“英国是欧洲的一部分，永远都是”。
Recklessness doesn’t get near it. On Thursday morning, after destroying the political career of his old school chum Mr. Cameron, wrecking the British economy and possibly breaking up Britain, Mr. Johnson announced that he wouldn’t be sticking around to clean up the mess he’d made. His erstwhile ally, Mr. Gove, delivered the coup de grâce as he announced his own candidacy for the Conservative leadership: “Boris cannot provide the leadership or build the team for the task ahead.”
这不是一般的鲁莽。周四上午，在摧垮自己的老校友卡梅伦的政治生涯，毁灭英国经济，可能还会令英国分裂之后，约翰逊宣布他不会留下来收拾自己制造的烂摊子。他曾经的盟友戈夫发出致命一击，宣布自己参加保守党领袖之职的角逐：“鲍里斯不具备应有的领导力，无法组建团队应对接下来的考验。”
Until yesterday, Mr. Johnson seemed to have an ability to outrun boring facts and bad publicity only surpassed, perhaps, by one Donald J. Trump. Boris will not be Britain’s prime minister any time soon, and probably never, so what next?
直到昨天之前，约翰逊似乎都有一种摆脱无聊的事实和不利舆论的能力，这方面唯一能胜过他的可能就是唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)。鲍里斯在短时间内不会成为英国的首相，也许将来也不会，那么接下来怎么办？
A break from British politics seems like a good idea. Although he gave up his American passport to avoid paying taxes, Mr. Johnson was actually born in New York City. Perhaps Mr. Trump would take him on as a warm-up act — or even a running mate.
暂时退出英国政坛似乎是个好主意。为了避税已经放弃美国护照的约翰逊，实际上是在纽约市出生的。也许特朗普可以把他拉来做暖场嘉宾——甚至竞选搭档。