WASHINGTON — In the days since Britons voted to leave the European Union, the so-called “Brexit” referendum has created such severe turmoil that public attention is increasingly focused on an extreme option: Can they get out of it?
华盛顿――自从英国投票脱离欧盟，也就是所谓“Brexit”公投以来，已经造成了严重的混乱，公众的关注日益集中到一个极端的选择上来：他们能摆脱公投结果吗？
Prime Minister David Cameron said on Monday that he considered the referendum binding and that “the process of implementing the decision in the best possible way must now begin.” But he also said he would leave that process to his successor, after his expected resignation in October. This opens a window of at least four months during which time Britain could decide not to proceed, and avoid consequences from Europe.
戴维·卡梅伦(David Cameron)首相周一说，他认为公投具有约束力，“以最佳方式实施这个决定的工作必须马上开始。”但是他也说，他会在自己于10月辞职之后，让继任者来开展这一工作。这留下了至少四个月的时间，在这期间，英国可以决定不继续进行这一工作，从而避免脱离欧洲所带来的后果。
If the next prime minister does trigger the departure process, Britain then has two years to negotiate the terms of its leaving. While EU rules say that membership is revoked automatically at the end of that period, Britain could theoretically use that time to negotiate an alternative plan.
如果下一任首相启动脱离欧洲的进程，英国还会有两年的时间来谈判脱离欧洲的条件。欧盟规定，两年期满后，其成员资格会自动废除，理论上，英国可以利用这段时间来谈判另一种方案。
The country has a few options for how, during these two windows, it might remain in the European Union. Each carries significant risks and downsides, both for Europe and for Britain itself — but, then again, so does leaving.
在这两个窗口期，英国还有其他一些选择，可以让自己留在欧盟之内。每种方案对于欧洲和英国自身都有很大的风险和缺陷——但离开欧盟也是一样的。
Option No. 1: Simply Don’t Do It
选择一：什么都不做
The referendum is not legally binding. The process of leaving does not begin until the prime minister officially invokes Article 50 of the European Union’s governing treaty. So he or she could, in theory, carry on as if the vote had never happened.
公投是不具有法律约束力的。脱离欧盟进程要到首相正式启动《欧盟宪法条约》第50条后才能开始。所以，未来的首相在理论上可以当做公投根本就没发生过。
Cameron has already delayed the implementation of Article 50 by refusing to invoke it himself. Of his two most likely possible successors in the Conservative Party, Theresa May opposes leaving the union and Boris Johnson, a prime Brexit proponent, is already backpedaling, pledging on Monday that changes “will not come in any great rush.”
通过拒绝由他本人来启动《欧盟宪法条约》第50条，卡梅伦其实已经拖延了实施这一进程的时间。他在保守党内可能的继任者有两人，其中特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)反对脱离欧盟，鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)则是英国脱离欧盟的重要倡导者，而他已经改变了主意，于周一承诺，变化“不应该来得太快”。
Most members of Parliament opposed leaving the union, and might support a prime minister who refused to invoke Article 50. But that would be akin to overruling the will of 17.4 million Britons who voted to leave, an extreme step in a country that prides itself on democratic values.
议会大多数成员都反对离开欧盟，他们可能会支持一位拒绝启动《欧盟宪法条约》第50条的首相。但这无异于否决了1740万投票选择离开欧盟的英国人的意愿，在这个以民主价值为骄傲的国家里无疑是过于极端的方式。
It would also risk inflaming the underlying political forces that led to the Leave victory: rising populist anger, distrust of seemingly unaccountable government institutions and a belief that the system is rigged.
这也会激怒导致离欧派胜利背后的潜在政治力量：民粹主义日益增长的愤怒、对似乎并不可靠的政府体系的不信任，以及相信整个体系在受到幕后操纵的看法。
It is difficult to predict how pro-Brexit voters would respond if their government ignored the referendum’s result, but such a move risks empowering more extreme voices. British politics, already in tremendous turmoil, would face an uncertain future, as would the lawmakers who will be up for re-election.
如果政府无视公投结果，很难预测支持英国脱离欧盟的选民会有什么样的反应，但是这样的举措有为极端势力声音赋权的风险。英国政治已经处在急剧动荡之中，面临着不确定的未来，议员们也都要面临重新选举。
Option No. 2: A Scottish Veto
选择二：苏格兰的否决
The House of Lords said in an April report that any decision to exit the EU would have to be approved by the parliaments of Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales.
4月，上议院在一份报告中称，任何脱离欧盟的决定都必须经过苏格兰、北爱尔兰和威尔士的同意。
Welsh voters supported Brexit, and Northern Ireland’s Parliament is led by a party that favors leaving the union. But Scottish voters overwhelmingly opposed leaving, and so does the governing Scottish National Party, which has pledged to take any available measures to remain in the bloc.
威尔士选民支持英国脱离欧盟，北爱尔兰的议会由支持脱离欧盟的政党把持。但是苏格兰的选民大多反对脱离欧盟，主政的苏格兰民族党(Scottish National Party)承诺将采取一切措施，留在欧盟之内。
Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland, has suggested that her Parliament could withhold consent, sparking a constitutional crisis.
苏格兰首席部长尼古拉·斯特金(Nicola Sturgeon)称她的议会可以拒绝批准脱离欧盟，结果引发了一场宪法危机。
That, in turn, could be an opportunity for leaders wishing to avoid a Brexit. The next prime minister could tell voters that he or she would like to carry out their will, but that leaving Europe is impossible without Scottish approval.
这也可以为希望避免英国脱离欧盟的领导人提供了机会。下一任首相可以告诉选民，自己希望执行他们的意愿，但是没有苏格兰的同意是不可能脱离欧盟的。
This offers at least a hint more political legitimacy than simply disregarding the referendum.
这至少比无视公投结果更有一点政治上的合法性。
But if Britain’s next prime minister is intent on following through with Brexit, the British Parliament could repeal the law that gives Scotland veto power. Sturgeon would probably respond by seeking a new referendum on Scottish independence — something she has already threatened to do if Britain leaves the union.
但是，如果英国的下一任首相有意脱离欧盟，英国议会可以废除给予苏格兰否决权的这条法律。对此，斯特金的反应可能是发起新的苏格兰独立公投——她已经威胁过，如果英格兰离开欧盟，她就会这样做。
Option No. 3: A Do-over
选择三：再来一次
In 1992, Danish voters narrowly rejected a referendum on joining one of the treaties that laid the EU’s foundations. Eleven months later, after a flurry of diplomacy, Denmark held a second referendum, which voters approved.
1992年，丹麦选民在公投中通过微弱优势，拒绝加入一项欧盟的基础协定。11个月后，经过一系列外交上的被动局面，丹麦发起了第二次公投，这一次，选民投票通过了加入该条约。
Similar scenarios unfolded in 2001 — and again in 2008 — when Irish voters rejected EU treaties before embracing them in second referendums in subsequent years.
2001年也发生了类似情景——爱尔兰选民拒绝加入若干欧盟协定，若干年后在2008年的第二次公投中它们才得以通过。
Could British voters reverse themselves as well? By Monday, four days after the Brexit vote, an online petition calling for a do-over had 3.8 million signatures.
英国的选民也可以改变主意吗？到星期一，也就是脱离欧盟公投之后的第四天，一项要求重新投票的网络请愿已经有了380万个签名。
But there is little reason to believe that a second referendum, were it held today, would yield a different result. While a handful of Britons have said on social media that they regretted their vote to leave the union, polling suggests that they are a tiny minority. A survey by ComRes, taken on Saturday, found that only 1 percent of “Leave” voters were unhappy with the results. (Brexit won by 4 percentage points, 52-48.)
但是，假如今天就举行第二次公投，产生不同结果的可能性并不大。确实有少数英国人在社交媒体上声称他们后悔投票决定离开欧盟，但民意调查结果表明，他们只是极少数人。星期六，一项由ComRes进行的调查显示，只有1%投票选择“离开”的人对结果表示不满意（脱离欧盟派领先四个百分点，既以52%比48%胜出）。
British leaders could justify a second cut at the question by securing special concessions from the EU, like allowing Britain to put a cap on immigration. This approach was how Danish and Irish leaders persuaded their voters to approve the referendums they had previously rejected.
如果英国从欧盟获得某些特殊让步，比如允许英国为移民设置上限，那么英国领导人是可以找到理由进行第二次公投的。当年丹麦与爱尔兰领导人说服选民在公投中改变主意，用的就是这个方法。
Johnson, who said on Monday that Britain was “part of Europe and always will be,” hinted before the vote that he might pursue this strategy. “There is only one way to get the change we need, and that is to vote to go,” he wrote in a March op-ed in The Telegraph. “All EU history shows that they only really listen to a population when it says No.”
约翰逊周一说，英国“是而且永远是欧洲的一部分”，在公投之前，他就暗示过自己可能会采取这个策略。“只有一个方式可以带来我们需要的改变，那就是投票选择离开，”他3月在《每日电讯报》(The Telegraph)的观点专栏中写道。“整个欧盟的历史表明，他们只会在人们说‘不’的时候才倾听他们的意见。”
A second vote would allow politicians to claim that they had followed the will of the voters and stood up to the European Union, avoiding both populist outrage and the economic and diplomatic fallout of a British exit.
第二次公投可以令政客们声称，他们听从了选民的意见，也支持欧盟，这样可以既避免民粹主义的愤怒，也避免离开欧盟所带来的经济与外交后果。
European leaders, however, may not be eager to go along. If any member state can extract special concessions by threatening to leave, it undermines the union’s ability to make Europe-wide policies. It also gives other states an incentive to play chicken with exit referendums, a dangerous game that could easily end in disaster.
不过，欧盟领导人可能不会那么赞同。如果成员国都以威胁退出来要求特殊让步，这将会损害欧盟制定全欧政策的能力。这也会刺激其他成员国威胁进行退出欧盟的公投，这将会是一场危险的游戏，很容易以灾难告终。
There is also a risk that British voters would reject the second referendum as well. If that happened, there would truly be no going back.
还有一个风险，那就是英国选民在第二次公投中还是选择离开欧盟。如果这样，就肯定没有回头路了。
Option No. 4: An Exit in Name Only
选择四：只在名义上脱离
Article 50 gives an exiting country two years to negotiate terms for its relationship with the union, on issues like trade and migration.
《欧盟宪法条约》第50条给离开欧盟的国家两年时间，与欧盟就脱离后的关系进行谈判，比如贸易与移民等事宜。
What if Britain struck a series of deals that largely preserved the status quo, only without formal European Union membership?
如果英国达成一系列协议，大体上维持现状，只是去掉了正式欧盟成员国身份，那又会如何呢？
This, too, seems to be something Johnson is pondering. In an op-ed in The Telegraph on Sunday, he promised that Britain would maintain free trade and free movement deals with Europe.
这似乎也是约翰逊所考虑的。在本周日《每日电讯报》的观点文章中，他承诺英国将会维持与欧洲的自由贸易和自由流动协定。
As Rafael Behr, a columnist for The Guardian, joked on Twitter: “Otherwise known as ‘membership of the European Union.'”
《卫报》(The Guardian)的专栏作家拉斐尔·贝林(Rafael Behr)则在Twitter上开玩笑说，“亦称‘欧盟成员国’。”
One model is Norway, which is not a EU member but subscribes to its common market and open borders.
挪威就是一个榜样，它不是欧盟成员国，但是却加入了它的共同市场和边境开放政策。
“Leave” campaigners emphasized two goals: reducing migration and extracting Britain from European bureaucracy. While a Norway-style arrangement could, in theory, limit migration, it would worsen British subjugation to European policymakers.
“脱欧”的支持者们强调两个目标：减少移民，让英国摆脱欧盟的官僚主义。挪威式的格局在理论上可以限制移民，但会令英国更加受制于欧盟的政策制定者。
If Britain chose this path, it “would have no vote and no presence when crucial decisions that affect the daily lives of its citizens are made,” Norway’s former foreign minister, Espen Barth Eide, warned last year.
如果英国选择这条道路，它“将无法在欧盟制定影响到其公民日常生活的政策中进行投票或在场”，挪威前外交大臣埃斯彭·巴特·艾德(Espen Barth Eide)去年警告说。
Such a deal would also probably require Britain to continue paying membership fees, which “Leave” campaigners promised to win back.
这样一项协定也会令英国继续缴纳成员费，这笔款项是“脱欧”的支持者们承诺不再缴纳的。
Nicolas Véron, a French economist, wrote on the website of Bruegel, a research group in Brussels, that European leaders would probably oppose this arrangement, too, for fear of setting a bad precedent.
法国经济学家尼古拉·维隆(Nicolas Véron)在布鲁塞尔的一家研究机构Bruegel的网站上写道，欧洲领导者们也或许会担心树立不好的先例，从而反对这样的格局。
These leaders, he said, want to send a “clear and unambiguous” message to other member states: If you leave the union, you will not be rewarded with a sweetheart deal allowing you the benefits of membership without the burden. You will get a hard and painful breakup, so think carefully.
他说，这些领导者希望向其他成员国发送“清晰而明确的”信号：如果离开欧盟，就不会毫无代价地享受成员国才能拥有的优惠待遇。这会是一个艰难而痛苦的分手，所以要想清楚。