LONDON — Financial markets got off to another weak start on Wednesday, as investors made skittish by Britain’s vote to leave the European Union fled stocks in search of safer places to stash their money.
伦敦——周三，随着因英国投票退出欧盟而受到惊吓的投资者逃离股市，寻找更安全的投资渠道，金融市场再次疲软开市。
That nervousness sent the British currency, the pound, to new 31-year lows, and it pushed the yield on Japanese debt into negative territory, meaning investors were effectively paying Japan’s government to lend it money. Seeking havens for their cash, many have turned to the United States dollar and gold, as well.
紧张情绪使英国货币英镑的币值创下31年以来的新低，并导致日本国债收益率变为负值，也就是说投资者实际上正在出钱让日本政府借自己的钱。为了给自己的资金寻找避风港，很多人可能还转向了美元和黄金。
The sharp shifts reflected lingering uncertainty over the impact of last month’s vote, known as Brexit, and came with concerns over Britain’s real estate market also increasing. Three of the country’s major real estate funds halted withdrawals in recent days, to stop panicked investors from fleeing.
这种剧烈的转变，反映出上月又称“英国退出欧盟”的投票带来了挥之不去的不确定性。与此同时，对英国房地产市场的担忧也日渐加剧。最近几天，该国三大房地产基金已暂停取款，意在防止恐慌的投资者逃离。
The impacts of the June 23 referendum are still being felt the world over, but policy makers have pledged to do whatever is necessary to ensure the markets continue to function. The Bank of England, Britain’s central bank, has pledged 250 billion pounds, or about $330 billion, as a backstop to keep the markets functioning, but it warned on Tuesday that the financial environment had become “challenging.”
全球依然能感受到6月23日那场公投的影响，但政策制定者承诺采取一切必要措施，确保市场继续正常运转。英国央行英格兰银行(Bank of England)承诺拿出2500亿英镑（约合2.2万亿元人民币）作为后盾，保持市场照常运转，但该银行周二警告称，金融环境变得颇具“挑战性”。
Sweden’s central bank held its main interest rate at minus 0.5 percent on Wednesday, and it said it would postpone any future rate rises, noting that the referendum had caused “considerable uncertainty.”
周三，瑞典央行将其主要利率定为负0.5%，并表示将推迟加息，称公投造成了“相当大的不确定性”。
As policy makers and economists continue to consider the implications, investors are putting their money in investments widely seen as stable.
在政策制定者和经济学家仍在考虑可能会出现的后果时，投资者正在把资金投入被广泛认为稳定的投资中。
The pound, which had recovered slightly since its steep fall after the referendum, dropped to $1.2798 against the dollar on Wednesday. The yield on Britain’s benchmark 10-year government bond, which moves inversely to the price, continued falling to all-time lows. Stocks in Britain and Continental Europe were down, and the price of gold continued its post-referendum rise.
周三，英镑兑美元的汇率跌至1.2798美元。公投结束后，英镑汇率暴跌，之后曾略有回升。与价格走势相反的英国基准十年期政府债券收益率继续下跌至有史以来的最低水平。英国和欧洲大陆股市下跌，黄金价格继续维持公投后的上扬趋势。
In Asia, the yield on Japan’s 20-year government bonds fell below zero percent, which essentially means global investors are paying the Japanese government for the privilege of lending it their money. The once-rare phenomenon has become increasingly common around the world, upending a financial system that has been based on above-zero interest rates, as investors have sought safe investments amid slow economic growth and political uncertainty.
在亚洲，日本20年期政府债券的收益率跌至零以下。这在本质上意味着全球投资者正在给日本政府钱，以换取借钱给它的殊荣。随着投资者在经济增长放缓、政治局势不稳定之际寻找安全的投资，这种一度罕见的现象在全球变得越来越普遍，颠覆了以正利率为基础的金融制度。
Japan’s benchmark stock index closed down 1.9 percent Wednesday afternoon, while Hong Kong stocks fell 1.2 percent.
周三下午，日本基准股指收跌1.9%，香港股市跌1.2%。