LONDON — In a day of intrigue and betrayal, predictions about the next prime minister of Britain were overturned on Thursday as the presumed favorite, Boris Johnson, said he would not run after his ally in the Brexit campaign, Michael Gove, suddenly announced his candidacy.
伦敦——本周四弥漫着权谋和背叛的味道，关于英国下任首相的一些预言被推翻。本来最被看好的鲍里斯·约翰逊(Boris Johnson)表示，在脱欧派盟友迈克尔·戈夫(Michael Gove)突然宣布成为候选人之后，他不会参与竞争。
Gove had once ruled himself out for the job. His U-turn Thursday wrecked Johnson’s prospects and enhanced those of Theresa May, the home secretary, who had backed the Remain campaign but with little enthusiasm.
戈夫曾一度表示不争逐首相职位。他于周四做出的戏剧性转折令约翰逊无望，内政大臣特丽莎·梅(Theresa May)则势头向好。梅支持留欧派，但不是太积极。
With Johnson out, the prospect of a race between May, 59, and Gove, 48, the justice secretary, also indicated that the next prime minister would not seek to keep Britain in the duty-free single market of the European Union if the price was no restriction on immigration from the bloc.
约翰逊出局之后，从59岁的梅和48岁的司法大臣戈夫之间的竞争形势来看，下一任首相不会寻求让英国留在欧盟的免税费单一市场里，如果代价是让移民没有任何限制地从欧盟进入英国的话。
The sense that Johnson might try to reach a softer deal with Brussels, and his unwillingness to promise key jobs to Gove and other leaders of the campaign to exit the EU, helped doom his candidacy, legislators said.
有议员表示，大家感觉约翰逊可能会尝试与布鲁塞尔达成一项比较软化的协议，而且他不愿意承诺让戈夫等脱欧派其他领导人获得关键职位，这是他候选人资格落空的部分原因。
May supported staying in the EU but was a relatively quiet voice in that debate and made no enemies. She is considered a candidate of continuity who is farther to the right than Prime Minister David Cameron, who announced his resignation the day after the vote for to leave the bloc.
梅支持留欧，但在辩论中相对沉默，没有树敌。她的右倾程度超过卡梅伦，被认为是一个能保持连续性的候选人。卡梅伦在英国投票脱欧的第二天宣布辞职。
On Thursday, May ruled out a second referendum or any effort to rejoin the EU, emphasizing that there must be better control of immigration.
周四当天，梅称不会进行第二次全民公投，不会尝试重新加入欧盟，同时强调必须对移民进行更好的控制。
While the bookmakers made May the new favorite to succeed Cameron, she is vulnerable to charges that in her years as home secretary, she failed to reduce net immigration to Britain.
虽然博彩业对梅接任卡梅伦的情景最为看好，但她在担任内政大臣的这些年里，并没有减少进入英国的净移民人数，容易遭人诟病。
Gove, who was a close friend of Cameron before backing the British exit, appears to have been encouraged to run by Cameron aides who vowed privately to try to block the ascension of Johnson, regarded as more interested in the game of politics than in the substance.
在支持英国脱欧之前，戈夫是卡梅伦的密友。他的参选似乎获得了卡梅伦幕僚的鼓励。这些人私下发誓要尽力阻止约翰逊成为首相，觉得他更感兴趣的是政治把戏，而不是实际工作。
It has been evident in the days since the referendum that Johnson and Gove had no agreed-upon plan for what to do if they won, and that they have disagreements about how to approach the future.
公投之后的这些天里，很明显，约翰逊和戈夫并没有商量好脱欧之后要采取什么行动，而且他们对于未来的方针存在分歧。
May, the daughter of a vicar, portrayed herself as a candidate for ordinary voters.
梅来自牧师家庭，将自己描绘成代表普通选民的候选人。
If selected by the Conservatives, she would be the second woman to become Britain’s prime minister, after Margaret Thatcher.
如果保守党选择了梅，她就会成为继玛格丽特·撒切尔(Margaret Thatcher)之后英国的第二位女首相。