WHEN Michael Aram and his partner, Aret Tikiryan, welcomed their twins, Anabel and Thadeus, into their lives last year, they were living in a sleek modern triplex.
去年，迈克尔·亚兰(Michael Aram)与妻子阿勒特·蒂基杨(Aret Tikiryan)迎来了他们的一对双胞胎，安娜贝尔(Anabel)与撒迪厄斯(Thadeus)。他俩那时还住在一套三层楼的豪华复式公寓中。
“We had glass stairs, cement floors, balconies with 20-foot drops and three bathrooms, but not one bathtub,” said Mr. Aram, 49, who owns the decorative accessories and tabletop company that bears his name. “The apartment was so unsafe for them.”
“我们的房屋里有玻璃楼梯、水泥地板、离地面20英尺（约6米）高的阳台和三间浴室，而浴室里一个浴缸也没有，”49岁的亚兰说，他经营着一家以自己名字注册的装饰品与桌面用品公司，“这套公寓对孩子们来说太不安全了。”
It didn’t matter too much at first, but when the twins, who are now 20 months old, began walking, the couple had to rethink their living space. Earlier this year, they moved into a smaller single-level apartment. And suddenly storage became an issue. Particularly in the children’s room.
这件事起初并没有那么重要，但当这对现在20个月大的双胞胎开始会走路后，夫妻俩就不得不重新考虑他们的住处了。今年初，他们搬进一套较小的单层公寓。于是，物品存放忽然成了一个问题。尤其是在孩子们的房间里。
“My feeling is that everything in their room should be fun, with color and things that move and interact,” Mr. Aram said. But at the same time, he said, “We try to engage them in the fun of picking up after themselves, so it’s not a totally disorderly environment.”
“我的感觉是，他们房里的东西应该充满乐趣，要有绚烂的颜色和搭配协调的物品，”亚兰说。但于此同时，他说，“我们要试着鼓励他们开开心心地自己收拾东西，而不是让房间成为一个乱糟糟的环境。”
They are aided in their efforts by a phalanx of plastic storage bins, as well as dressers from Ikea, but are always looking for more options. With that in mind, Mr. Aram took to the streets, his family in tow, to enlighten a reporter on the finer points of children’s storage.
他们虽然有一排塑料储物箱以及几个从宜家(Ikea)买的衣柜帮忙解决问题，但还在寻找更多选择。带着这样的想法，亚兰拖家带口地上了街，让记者见识了怎样才能更好地解决儿童储物问题。
First stop: Cristina Dos Santos in TriBeCa. The multifunctional pieces from the Casa Kids collection he found there, like chairs with drawers and secret compartments, were a hit with parents and twins alike.
第一站：翠贝卡社区(TriBeCa)的Cristina Dos Santos商店。他在店里找到的几件Casa Kids系列多功能家具，会让父母同孩子都觉得欣喜若狂，比如几把带有抽屉和暗格的椅子。
“I love the playful drawer and lift-up seat, which are a new twist on old-fashioned school chairs,” Mr. Aram said. “Best of all, it would be easy for my kids to pull themselves in and out of, and playing peek-a-boo with the stuff inside the chair might be a good way to teach the kids to put things away.”
“我喜欢这个好玩的抽屉，还有升降式的座椅，这两项功能是老式课椅上变出来的新花样，”亚兰说，“最棒的是，我的孩子可以轻松地爬上爬下，而且，和椅子里的物品玩躲猫猫，可能是教会他们收拾东西的好方法。”
At ducduc, in SoHo, he checked out the AJ three-drawer changer, an item he described as crucial for a child’s room because of its multiple storage options. The open shelves, in particular, would be “perfect for diaper storage,” he said. At least “until the kids discover they can pull them out onto the floor.”
在苏豪区(SoHo)的ducduc商店，他买下了有三个抽屉的AJ衣柜。他说这是儿童房里的必备品，因为这种衣柜提供了多种收纳选择。尤其是那个开放式的储物架，“存放尿布再好不过了，”他说，至少“到孩子们发现他们能把那些东西拖出来扔在地板上为止。”
Online, he stumbled upon the Pin Pres bookshelf by Ooo My Design, which promised “endless hours of fun,” he said, as well as “very interesting and unexpected storage. You could do art on this or teach kids words by making various shapes. It can morph into a million things, so they’ll never get bored of it.”
在网上，他偶然发现了Ooo My Design公司设计的一款Pin Pres书架。它承诺“其乐无穷，”他说，以及“非常有趣又意想不到的收纳用品。你可以在上面作画，也可以把它塑造成各种形状，教孩子学单词。它可以变身为不计其数的东西，所以孩子们永远不会玩腻。”
But his favorite piece was the Pickup (Your Toys) Truck at Tambino.com, which managed to be both toy and toy storage simultaneously.
但他最喜欢的一件物品，是Tambino.com网站上的那辆“收纳(你的玩具)皮卡”(Pickup [Your Toys] Truck)，这辆车既是玩具，同时又能收纳玩具。
“It is the epitome of perfect solutions for kids: multifunctional, playful, educational, inspiring and fun to use,” he said. “Now, if only it had an art station in the front seat and a roof with a changing table.” 
“这是完美的儿童储物解决方案当中的典范：一物多用、寓教于乐、激发灵感，而且用得开心，”他说，“眼下，如果它的前座有个绘画台，再有个能在上面换尿布的车顶棚该多好。”