MARAWI, Philippines — Three Christian civilians said they had cowered in a basement for weeks while militants inspired by the Islamic State went door to door killing non-Muslims in the southern Philippine city of Marawi before fleeing for their lives at dawn Tuesday.
菲律宾马拉维市——三名信奉基督教的平民说，他们在周二黎明得以逃生之前，曾在一个地下室里躲藏了好几周，在那期间，受伊斯兰国激励的武装分子正在菲律宾南部的马拉维市挨门挨户地杀死非穆斯林。
“We heard them shouting ‘Allahu akbar’ and asking neighbors about religion,” said Ian Torres, 25, a house painter who had come to Marawi for a job. “We could only hear them. If they could not answer questions about Quran verses, gunfire immediately followed.”
“我们听到他们一边大喊着‘真主至大’，一边问邻居信什么教，”25岁的伊恩·托雷斯(Ian Torres)说，他是个到马拉维市寻找工作的房子油漆工。“我们只能听到他们的声音。如果他们不能回答关于古兰经经文的问题，马上伴随而来的就是枪声。”
Their account, and others from people who have fled the battle zone in Marawi, starkly illustrate the brutal religious calculus of the militants as well as the heroic efforts of local Muslims who risked their lives to protect Christian friends and workers.
他们的描述、以及逃离了马拉维市激战区的其他人的描述，赤裸裸地揭示了激进分子残酷的宗教计算，以及当地穆斯林冒着生命危险保护信奉基督教的朋友和工人的英勇行为。
The militants, a coalition of local insurgent groups loyal to the Islamic State, began their assault on the city May 23, announcing their intent to create an Islamic caliphate in the Philippines’ only predominantly Muslim city. Since then, nearly 300 people have been killed, the military says.
这些武装分子属于一个忠于伊斯兰国的当地叛乱团体联盟，他们于5月23日开始袭击这座城市，宣布要在菲律宾唯一以穆斯林人口为主的城市建立伊斯兰教的哈里发。军方说，到目前为止已有近300人被打死。
There have been previous reports of the militants threatening or killing Christians, but it is not known how many have died. The military says 26 civilians have been killed, but the militants still control about a fifth of the city, and there may be other areas the military has not reached.
以前曾有过关于武装分子威胁或杀死基督徒的报道，但尚不清楚有多少人已被打死。军方说，已有26名平民被杀，但武装分子仍然控制着城市约五分之一的面积，而且也许还有军方尚未进入的其他地区。
A propaganda video released by the Islamic State on Monday showed what was said to be the execution of six Christians in Marawi. However, it was not possible to verify that the scene was recorded there, and military officials cast doubt on the claim.
伊斯兰国周一发布的宣传视频显示了据说是在马拉维市对六名基督徒执行死刑的情景。但尚不能核实那个情景是否在该地录制，军方官员对视频的说法表示怀疑。
The three Christians who escaped Marawi were among a group of five laborers from Iligan City, about 25 miles to the north, who were hired to refurbish the house of a prominent Muslim trader in Marawi.
从马拉维逃出来的三名基督徒是来自伊利根市的五名打工者中的一部分，他们被雇到马拉维市为一位有名的穆斯林商人装修房子，伊利根市位于马拉维市北部约40公里。
But what was supposed to be a routine job turned into a nightmare when they were trapped in hostile territory with Islamist militants hunting them down.
但是，当他们被困在战火之中、伊斯兰武装分子开始寻找他们时，原本正常的工作变成了一场噩梦。
One of the men, Nick Andilig, 26, said about 50 militants suddenly appeared in the neighborhood where they were working, shouting “Allahu akbar” and displaying a black flag.
三人中26岁的尼克·安迪利格(Nick Andilig)说，约有50名武装分子突然出现在他们正在工作的城区，大喊着“真主至大”，并打着一面黑旗。
“They claimed to be ISIS out on a mission to cleanse the city,” he said, using another name for the Islamic State. He said he thought that meant they would kill all non-Muslims in the area.
“他们声称是ISIS，在城里执行清洗任务，”安迪利格说，他用的是伊斯兰国的另一个名字。他说，他觉得这意味着他们要杀死城区里所有的非穆斯林。
The fighters appeared to be in their 20s, wore face masks and head gear, and carried long firearms, Andilig said. Some arrived in a police car, which they had apparently stolen.
安迪利格说，武装分子看上去20多岁，他们戴着面罩和头盔，拿着长枪。其中一些人是开着警车来的，警车显然是他们偷来的。
Andilig said their employer hid the workers in his basement. When the militants reached his door, the workers overheard him arguing with them.
安迪利格说，他们的雇主让工人们躲进了地下室。当武装分子来到他家门口时，工人偶然听到他与武装分子发生了争吵。
“He told the gunmen that there were no Christians in the house,” Andilig said.
“他告诉武装分子，他家里没有基督徒，”安迪利格说。
The militants eventually moved on to the next house. Then they heard shooting.
武装分子最后离开他家，去了下一家。然后他们就听到了枪声。
Andilig said he did not see the killings, but when he and his group eventually emerged from hiding, they saw several bodies with what appeared to be gunshot wounds.
安迪利格说，他没有看到有人被打死，但是，当他和他的伙伴们最终从躲藏的地方出来时，他们看到了几具看起来带有枪伤的尸体。
“Our employer escaped earlier with another household staff,” he said. “He said he would come back for us but never made it. He was a good Muslim.”
“我们的雇主在早些时候与家里的另一名雇工一起逃了出去，”安迪利格说。“他说，他会回来接我们，但他没能成功。他是个很好的穆斯林。”
That left the five workers, four men and a pregnant woman, trapped in the house.
结果是，这五名工人被困在了房子里，他们是四名男子和一名怀孕的女子。
For days they subsisted on food the owner had left behind, mostly canned goods and rice, but eventually that ran out. They began to leave the house on brief forays to scrounge for food, eating plants they found.
好几天，他们靠雇主留下来的食物为生，大多是罐头食品和大米，但这些东西最终都被吃光了。他们开始短时间地离开房子去找吃的东西，用找到的植物充饥。
They were getting hungry, and the explosions outside, apparently from bombs dropped by military airplanes, had been getting louder.
他们越来越饿，外面的爆炸声也越来越大，军方显然在用飞机投炸弹。
“All of us decided to escape,” Andilig said. “But our companion, who is seven months pregnant, could not run along with us. She and her husband decided to stay.”
“我们都决定要逃生，”安迪利格说。“但我们的一个同伴怀孕七个月了，不能跟我们一起跑。她和她的丈夫决定留下来。”
“We said we’d try to get rescue for them if we made it out. We also told ourselves that our fate was with the Lord.”
“我们说，如果能逃出去，我们会想方设法把他们救出来。我们也告诉自己，自己的命运掌握在天主的手中。”
As dawn broke Tuesday, Andilig, Torres and Arman Langilan, 22, fled.
在周二破晓时，安迪利格、托雷斯和22岁的阿尔曼·朗吉兰(Arman Langilan)开始出逃。
“We told each other, whatever happens, happens,” Torres said. “If we get hit and die, that’s our fate. But we had to escape. Or at least die trying.”
“我们相互说道，无论发生什么，我们都认了。”托雷斯说。“如果我们被打死，那是我们的命。但我们必须逃生。至少要死在逃生的路上。”
They alternated between running and hiding in thick shrubs, eventually reaching the Agos River, which divides the city and separates the area controlled by the militants from that controlled by the Philippine military.
他们时而飞奔，时而隐藏在茂密的灌木丛中，最终到达了阿戈斯河，这条河将城市一分为二，一边是武装分子控制的地区，另一边是菲律宾军方控制的地区。
They tumbled down the banks as bullets fired by snipers sporting black bandannas whizzed over their heads. They plunged into the rushing water, hugging the banks until they saw a clearing, and climbed out on the other side.
戴着黑色头巾的狙击手朝着他们开枪，子弹从他们的头上飞过，他们连滚带爬地从河岸下到河里。跳进快速的河水之中，紧贴着河岸前行，直到看到一片不太急的水后，才涉水爬上了对岸。
They were found by the police wandering, tired and hungry, among the ruins of the city, which the fighting has transformed into a desolate landscape of pockmarked buildings and cratered structures.
警察发现他们时，他们正又累又饿地在城市的废墟中徘徊，激烈的战斗已经把城市的这部分变成了一片荒芜，建筑物上弹痕累累，有的被炸得面目全非。
At a government checkpoint, they told their stories to the police and to The New York Times.
在政府的一个检查站，他们向警方和《纽约时报》讲述了他们的故事。
All showed signs of trauma. Langilan spoke incoherently and shuddered when bombs from a passing military plane exploded in the distance. Andilig clutched a piece of cucumber, his only real food in days, and repeatedly said he needed a shower.
他们都带有精神创伤的迹象。朗吉兰说起话来语不连贯，当一架军方飞机飞过、其投下的炸弹在远处爆炸时，他直打哆嗦。安迪利格手里紧紧地抓着一块黄瓜，这是他几天来唯一的真正食物，他不停地说想洗澡。
The fate of the two colleagues they left behind remains unknown. Attempts to reach them by mobile phone have been futile.
他们留在后面的两位同事的命运仍未可知。试图用手机与他们联系，但联系不上。
In another Marawi neighborhood, five Muslim police officers hid and protected five Christian construction workers for nearly three weeks.
在马拉维市的另一个城区，五名穆斯林警察把五名信基督教的建筑工人藏了起来，保护他们近三个星期。
“We had our chance to flee because we are Muslims,” said Lumla Lidasan, one of the officers. “But as police officers we are mandated to protect the people. So we elected to stay because they will execute the Christian civilians.”
“我们有逃生的机会，因为我们是穆斯林，”其中一位名叫鲁姆拉·利达桑(Lumla Lidasan)警官说。“但作为警官，我们的使命就是保护人民。所以我们选择留下来，因为他们会杀死基督教平民。”
Lidasan said he and his colleagues were armed with long rifles, which allowed them to keep the militants at bay while the Christians hid in the basement. Outside, he said, he heard rockets and bombs exploding as the city was reduced to rubble.
利达桑说，他和他的同事们有长枪，这使他们能够不让武装分子靠近，让那几名基督教平民得以在地下室藏身。他说，他听到外面火箭和炸弹的爆炸声不断，城市在爆炸声中变成一堆瓦砾。
“They are not real Muslims,” he said. “Real Muslims will not hurt people unprovoked, regardless of religion.”
“他们不是真正的穆斯林，”他说。“真正的穆斯林不会伤害无辜的人，不管他们信什么教。”
One of the Christians, Rodel Aleko, 24, said the bombing runs shook their hiding place, but whenever he peered out the window he would see the gunmen still patrolling.
其中一名基督徒、24岁的罗德尔·阿列克(Rodel Aleko)说，他们在藏身之地能感觉到飞机不停的轰炸所产生的震动，但每当他往窗外看时，他都会看到持枪的人仍在巡逻。
A police officer, Ricky Alawi, said there were times that they thought it was going to be the end for all of them. He said they were in radio contact with the army, who told them that there would soon be a bombing run in their area. They decided to take a chance and leave that day, which was Monday.
一名叫里奇·阿拉维(Ricky Alawi)的警察说，有几次，他们觉得那将是他们所有人完蛋的时候。他说，他们与军方保持着无线电联系，军方告诉他们，很快会轰炸他们所在的地区。所以他们当天决定冒险离开那里，那是周一。
“As we were fleeing we saw bodies lying on the ground,” he said. “The gunmen were shooting at us as we ran toward the next building, where we stayed overnight. One of my colleagues and one of the civilians were injured.”
“当我们跑出来时，我们看到地上躺着尸体，”阿拉维说。“枪手在向我们开枪，我们向下一幢大楼跑去，我们在那里过了一夜。我的一名同事和一位平民受了伤。”
When there was a lull in the fighting, the group started slowly walking toward Banggolo Bridge but were stopped by a gunman. Alawi said he told the militant that his colleagues were too traumatized to speak.
当战火出现间歇时，这些人开始慢慢朝着班戈洛桥(Banggolo Bridge)步行，但一名枪手将他们拦住。阿拉维说，他告诉那个武装分子，他的同事们受了太多的精神创伤，说不出话来了。
“He told us to just wait because he would call his companions,” Alawi said. “When he left, we ran as fast as we could and crossed the bridge.”
“他让我们等等，因为他要打电话给他的同伴，”阿拉维说。“等他刚一离开，我们就拼命地跑过了桥。”
Aleko was wounded when bomb shrapnel hit his left leg, he said, and the blasts were so loud that they may have permanently damaged his hearing.
阿列科说他受了伤，他的左腿被炸弹弹片击中，而且爆炸声如此之大，他的听力可能受到了永久性的损伤。
But he could only feel grateful.
但他唯一的感觉是感激。
“This is our second life,” he said. “I thank God for these officers.”
“这是我们的第二次生命，”他说。“我感谢上帝让这些警官保护了我们。”