SOUTHERN TURKEY — Dua had been working for only two months with the Khansaa Brigade, the all-female morality police of the Islamic State, when her friends were brought to the station to be whipped.
土耳其南部——朋友被带去警察局接受鞭刑时，杜瓦(Dua)只在全由女性组成的伊斯兰国(Islamic State)道德警察组织“汉萨阿旅”(Khansaa Brigade)工作了两个月。
The police had hauled in two women she had known since childhood, a mother and her teenage daughter, both distraught. Their abayas, flowing black robes, had been deemed too form-fitting.
警察拖来了两名女子。她打小就认识她们。那是一对母女，女儿只有十几岁。两人都有些慌乱。她们的黑色长袍被认为太贴身了。
When the mother saw Dua, she rushed over and begged her to intercede.
看到杜瓦时，那个母亲跑过去求她从中说情。
“Their abayas really were very tight. I told her it was their own fault; they had come out wearing the wrong thing,” she said. “They were unhappy with that.”
“她们的长袍真的非常紧身。我对她说错在她们；她们出门穿错了衣服，”她说。“她们听到后表现出了不满。”
Dua sat back down and watched as the other officers took the women into a back room to be whipped. When they removed their face-concealing niqabs, her friends were also found to be wearing makeup. It was 20 lashes for the abaya offense, five for the makeup, and another five for not being meek enough when detained.
杜瓦重又坐下，看着其他警察把两人带进后面的一间屋子行刑。摘下遮着脸的面纱后，警察发现杜瓦的那两个朋友还化了妆。最后，两人因为长袍穿着不当和化妆分别挨了20鞭和五鞭，因为羁押期间不够听话又多了五鞭。
Their cries began ringing out, and Dua stared hard at the ceiling, a lump building in her throat.
两人开始惨叫，杜瓦死死地盯着天花板，喉咙发紧。
Dua's second cousin Aws also worked for the brigade. Not long after Dua's friends were whipped, Aws saw fighters brutally lashing a man in Muhammad Square. The man, about 70, frail and with white hair, had been heard cursing God. As a crowd gathered, the fighters dragged him into the public square and whipped him after he fell to his knees.
杜瓦的二表姐奥斯(Aws)也在汉萨阿旅工作过。在杜瓦的朋友被鞭笞后不久，奥斯看到有人在穆罕默德广场残忍地鞭打一名男子。那名男子约莫70岁，满头白发，身体虚弱。有人听到他诅咒真主。随着人群聚集起来，那些人把他拖进一个公共广场，并在他跪下后用鞭子抽打他。
“He cried the whole time,” Aws said. “It was lucky for him that he had cursed Allah, because Allah shows mercy. If he'd cursed the Prophet, they would have killed him.”
“他一直在叫，”奥斯说。“幸好他诅咒的是安拉，因为安拉心怀慈悲。如果诅咒的是先知，他们会杀了他。”
Today, Aws, 25, and Dua, 20, are living in a small city in southern Turkey after fleeing Raqqa and its jihadi rulers. They met up here with Asma, 22, another defector from the Khansaa Brigade, and found shelter in the city's large community of Syrian refugees.
如今，25岁的奥斯和20岁的杜瓦逃离了拉卡以及那里的圣战统治者，生活在土耳其南部的一个小城。在这里，她们遇到了22岁的阿斯马(Asma)。她也是从汉萨阿旅逃出来的。她们藏身于这里的大量叙利亚难民之中。
Raqqa is widely known now as the capital of the Islamic State's self-declared caliphate. But the city in which the three women came to adulthood used to be quite different. Identified here by nicknames, the women spoke for many hours over the course of two visits this fall, recalling their experiences under Islamic State rule and how the jihadis had utterly changed life in Raqqa.
伊斯兰国自行宣告成立哈里发国后，作为其首都的拉卡如今广为人知。她们三个从小在拉卡长大。那里的过去和现在截然不同。她们在本文中皆以化名出现。三人用了几个小时介绍今年秋天的两次出逃经历，回忆各自在伊斯兰国统治下的生活，以及圣战分子如何彻底改变了拉卡。
All three described themselves as fairly typical young women of Raqqa. Aws was more into Hollywood, Dua into Bollywood. Aws' family was middle class, and she studied English literature at a branch of Euphrates University, a three-hour bus ride away in Hasaka. She devoured novels: some by Agatha Christie, and especially Dan Brown books.
三人都称自己是相当典型的拉卡姑娘。奥斯更喜欢好莱坞的电影，而杜瓦更喜欢宝莱坞。奥斯家属于中产阶级。她在幼发拉底大学(Euphrates University)的一家分校念过英语文学。学校位于哈萨卡，坐公交车需要三个小时。她如饥似渴地读小说，特别是丹·布朗(Dan Brown)的作品，不过也有些阿加莎·克里斯蒂(Agatha Christie)的著作。
Asma was another outward-looking young woman, studying business at Euphrates University. She is also an avid reader, fond of Ernest Hemingway and Victor Hugo, and she speaks some English.
年轻外向的阿斯马曾在幼发拉底大学学习商科。她也是一个读书狂，喜欢欧内斯特·海明威(Ernest Hemingway)和维克多·雨果(Victor Hugo)，会说一点英语。
When the uprising against the government of President Bashar Assad began rippling across Syria in 2011, it seemed distant from Raqqa. As news of fighting and massacres started filtering in, it was mostly from faraway cities in the country's west, like Homs. Even as displaced people began appearing in Raqqa and the city's young men started to sign up with anti-Assad groups in the area, including the Nusra Front and what is now the Islamic State, the fabric of life seemed intact.
2011年，当针对总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar Assad)的政府的反抗活动开始席卷叙利亚全国时，抗议活动离拉卡似乎还很遥远。有关战争和屠杀的消息，大多也是来自霍姆斯等遥远的西部城市。即便是在拉卡开出现流浪者，城里的年轻男子开始加入该地区的反阿萨德组织——包括努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)和伊斯兰国的前身——时，生活似乎还是没受到任何影响。
At the start of 2014, everything changed. The Islamic State wrested full control of Raqqa and made the city its command center, violently consolidating its authority. Those who resisted, or whose family or friends had the wrong connections, were detained, tortured or killed.
2014年初，一切都变了。伊斯兰国夺取了对拉卡的全面控制，并使该市成为了自己的指挥中心，大力巩固自己的权威。反抗者，或是家人、朋友认识了不该认识的人，会被羁押、严刑拷打或杀害。
The Islamic State has come to be known around the world by names like ISIS and ISIL. But in Raqqa, residents began calling it Al Tanzeem: The Organization. And it quickly became clear that every spot in the social order, and any chance for a family to survive, was utterly dependent on the group.
在世界上，伊斯兰国又被称作ISIS和ISIL等。但在拉卡，民众开始称它为“组织”(Al Tanzeem)。人们很快明白，在社会秩序中的各个角落，一家人的生死完全掌握在组织手上。
Not only had Raqqa residents become subjects of the Organization's mostly Iraqi leadership, but their place in society fell even further overnight. As foreign fighters and other volunteers began streaming into town, answering the call to jihad, they became the leading lights of the shaken-up community. In Raqqa, the Syrians had become second-class citizens — at best.
拉卡居民不仅变成“组织”领导层的控制对象，他们的社会地位也突然间进一步下降，“组织”的领导层主要来自伊拉克。随着外国武装分子及其他志愿者开始涌入城镇，响应圣战的号召，他们成为这个动荡地区的领导人物。在拉卡，叙利亚人充其量算是二等公民。
Dua, Aws and Asma were among the lucky: The choice to join was available to them. And each chose to barter her life, through work and marriage, to the Organization.
杜瓦、奥斯和阿斯马是幸运的：她们可以选择加入。她们都选择通过工作和婚姻向“组织”换取生存的机会。
None of them subscribed to its extreme ideology, and even after fleeing their homes and going into hiding, they still struggle to explain how they changed from modern young women into Islamic State morality enforcers.
但她们并不支持这种极端思想，即便在逃离家乡进行躲藏之后，她们仍然努力说明，她们是如何从年轻的现代女性转变成伊斯兰国的道德警察的。
In the moment, each choice seemed like the right one, a way to keep life tolerable: marrying fighters to assuage the Organization and keep their families in favor; joining the Khansaa Brigade to win some freedom of movement and an income in a city where women had been stripped of self-determination.
那时候，每一个选择似乎都是正确的选择，都是一种能让生活继续下去的方式：嫁给武装分子以抚慰“组织”，让家人都能受益；加入汉萨阿旅，获得行动自由及收入，在这个城市中，女性已被剥夺了自主权利。
But every concession turned to horror before long, and the women came to deplore how they were pitted against their neighbors, part of a force tearing apart the community they loved. Only months in, widowed and abandoned and forced to marry strangers again, would they see how they were being used as temporary salves to foreign fighters whose only dedication was to violence and an unrecognizable God.
但很快，每一个让步都带来了令人厌恶的结果，这些女性开始悔恨她们如何被迫陷入与邻里对抗的处境，这是正在撕裂她们所爱的社区的其中一股力量。只有在几个月后，当她们再次失去丈夫、遭到抛弃和被迫嫁给陌生人时，她们才会明白她们是被用来充当外国武装分子的临时慰藉，这些武装分子心里只有暴力，以及一个形象模糊的神。
Each of them was driven to the conviction that escape was a last chance at life. And eventually each joined the flow of Syrians abandoning their country, leaving a void to be filled by the foreigners who held nothing of Syria in their hearts.
她们最终确信，逃跑是唯一出路。她们和其他叙利亚人一样离弃了家园，将这个国家留给那些心中没有叙利亚的外国人。
Though the women tried to rationalize their enlistment in the Khansaa Brigade, there was no way to avoid seeing the Organization as the wanton killing machine it was. But all of Syria, it seemed, had become about death.
这些女性试图将自己加入汉萨阿旅的行为合理化，但她们无法不看到“组织”作为一台野蛮杀人机器的现实。而整个叙利亚，似乎都已经变成一个有关死亡的问题。
One week in July 2014, Dua's husband, Abu Soheil, did not return for three nights. On the fourth day, a group of fighters knocked on Dua's door. They told her that Abu Soheil had blown himself up in a battle against the Syrian army at Tal Abyad, on the border with Turkey.
2014年7月的某一周，杜瓦的丈夫阿布·苏海(Abu Soheil)三晚没有回家。第四天，一群武装分子来敲杜瓦的门。他们告诉杜瓦，在位于叙利亚与土耳其边境的塔尔阿卜亚德镇的一场战斗中，阿布·苏海引爆了自己。
Just 10 days later, another man from her husband's unit came to the house. He told Dua she could not stay home alone and would need to marry again, immediately.
10天之后，她丈夫所在队伍的另一名男性来到其住所。他告诉杜瓦，她不能独自一人在家，需要立即再次结婚。
“I told him that I still couldn't stop crying,” Dua said. “I said: `I'm heartbroken. I want to wait the whole three months.”' But the commander told her she was different from a normal widow. “You shouldn't be mourning and sad,” he said. “He asked for martyrdom himself, and you are the wife of a martyr. You should be happy.”
“我告诉他，我仍止不住哭泣，”杜瓦说。“我说：‘我很伤心。我想等完三个月。’”但这名指挥官告诉她，她跟普通的寡妇不同。“你不应该哀痛悲伤，”他说。“他自己要求牺牲。你是烈士的妻子。你应该高兴。”
That was the moment that broke her.
就是这个瞬间让她感到心灰意冷。
She knew she had to escape.
她知道她得逃走。
The news came for Aws not long after it did for Dua. Her husband, Abu Muhammad, had also killed himself in a suicide operation.
在杜瓦得到这个消息后不久，奥斯也收到了消息。她丈夫阿布·穆罕默德(Abu Muhammad)也在一场自杀式行动中身亡。
Dua, unable to bear another forced marriage, left first.
杜瓦因为无法忍受另一场强迫婚姻，最先离开了叙利亚。
When Aws decided to leave four months later, it was harder to cross the border because Turkey had started tightening security.
四个月后奥斯决定离开时，由于土耳其开始加强安全举措，穿越边境变得更加困难。
By early in the spring, Asma was agonizing about whether to flee as well.
到初春的时候，阿斯马在纠结是否逃走。
When she and a cousin plotted their escape, they told no one, not even their families, and took nothing but their handbags.
她和表姐妹计划逃跑时，没告诉任何人，甚至没告诉家人，她们只带了自己的手提包。
After years of shame and disappointment, none of the three said they could imagine ever going back, even if the Islamic State falls. The Raqqa that was their home only exists in their memories.
过了几年羞辱与失望的生活后，这三名女性表示她们没想过再回去，即便伊斯兰国倒台。作为故乡的拉卡，只留在她们的记忆中。