WASHINGTON — The FBI informed Congress on Sunday that it has not changed its conclusions about Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server as secretary of state, removing a dark cloud that has been hanging over her campaign two days before Election Day.
华盛顿——联邦调查局(FBI)周日告诉国会，他们对希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)担任国务卿时使用私人电邮服务器一事的结论并没有改变，扫除了选举日前两天笼罩在她的竞选活动上的乌云。
James Comey, the FBI director, said in a letter to members of Congress that “based on our review, we have not changed our conclusions that we expressed in July with respect to Secretary Clinton.”
FBI局长詹姆斯·科米(James Comey)在致国会议员的一封信中说，“基于我们的调查，我们没有改变今年7月对克林顿国务卿做出的结论。”
The news that the bureau was looking at emails that it found on a computer used by a top aide to Clinton, Huma Abedin, rocked the presidential race last month and provided a new opening for Donald Trump.
FBI对克林顿高级幕僚胡玛·阿贝丁(Huma Abedin)使用的一台电脑上的邮件展开的调查，对总统选举活动造成极大冲击，给唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)带来了一个新机会。
Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Clinton, said in a post on Twitter that the campaign was always confident that she would be cleared of any wrongdoing.
克林顿发言人布莱恩·法伦(Brian Fallon)在Twitter上发文称，竞选团队一直坚信她会洗脱任何不法行为的嫌疑。
“We were always confident nothing would cause the July decision to be revisited,” Fallon said. “Now Director Comey has confirmed it.”
“我们一直坚信，没有什么事会导致7月的决定被推翻，”法伦说。“现在，科米局长已经确认了此事。”
Comey said in the letter that the bureau has reviewed all communications that were to or from Clinton while she was secretary of state since he sent his last letter on Oct. 28.
科米在信中说，自10月28日发出的上一封信之后，局方对克林顿担任国务卿时的所有通信往来进行了审查。
In July, Comey said that although Clinton and her aides were “extremely careless,” there was no evidence of intentional mishandling of classified information.
七月时，科米说，虽然克林顿和她助手“极其大意”，但没有证据表明他们故意违规处理机密信息。
The Clinton campaign welcomed the news.
克林顿的竞选团队对这个消息表示了欢迎。
“We have seen Director Comey’s latest letter to the Hill,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a spokeswoman for the campaign. “We are glad to see he has found — as we were confident he would — that he has confirmed the conclusions he reached in July and we’re glad this matter is resolved.”
“我们看到了科米局长最近写给国会的信，”竞选团队发言人珍妮弗·帕尔米耶里(Jennifer Palmieri)说。“我们很高兴看到——且从来相信会看到——他确认了他在7月达成的结论，我们很高兴此事得到了解决。”
At a rally in Minneapolis, Trump did not directly address Comey’s letter, but he alluded to it when he said Clinton would be under investigation for a long time.
在明尼阿波利斯的一次集会中，特朗普没有直接提到科米的信，不过进行了暗示，他说克林顿将被调查很长一段时间。
“She’s protected by a rigged system,” he said. “She shouldn’t even be allowed to run for president.”
“她受到一个暗箱操作的体制的保护，”他说。“她甚至不应该被允许竞选总统。
And Kellyanne Conway, Trump’s campaign manager, responded to Fallon in a post on Twitter.
特朗普的竞选经理凯莉安娜·康维(Kellyanne Conway)在Twitter上回复了法伦。
“Then why did you, your colleagues, and your candidate attack Comey and his credibility?” she asked.
“那么为什么你、你的同事和你的候选人会攻击科米和他的可信度？”她问。