At nearly three feet wide, the Ico Parisi cabinets at Bernd Goeckler’s antiques store in the East Village were much too big to be night stands. That was this reporter’s opinion, anyway. Barry Goralnick, an architect who has designed lighting for Visual Comfort, carpets for Starck and furnishings for Ferrell & Mittman, disagreed.
东村的贝恩德·格克勒(Bernd Goeckler)古董店售卖的艾科·派瑞斯(Ico Parisi)置物柜，有将近3英尺（约合0.9米）宽，作为床头柜显得太大了点，至少笔者是这么想的。但是巴里·格拉尔尼克(Barry Goralnick)并不这么认为。格拉尔尼克是一位建筑师，曾分别为Visual Comfort、Starck和Ferrell & Mittman设计过灯具、地毯和家具。
The days of low platform beds and diminutive night stands are long gone, he insisted. And today’s thick mattresses plumped up with pillow tops require bedside tables of equal heft.
他坚称，低矮平台床(platform bed)和娇小床头柜的时代，早已一去不复返了。如今那些配有舒适层(pillow top)的床垫都很厚，这就需要床头柜的规格也得跟上。
“Traditional night stands look too tiny with these taller, bigger beds,” he said. “The right scale is very important.”
“传统床头柜配上这些更高、更大的床，就显得太小了，”他说，“规格合适是很重要的。”
And scale isn’t the only thing to consider, he said. The ideal night stand has a shelf for books or electronics and at least one drawer for “anything from the Gideon Bible to the ‘goodies’ people keep there,” said Mr. Goralnick, 58. If it were up to him, he added, it would come with a lock as a guard against nosy guests and curious kids.
况且，他说，规格不是唯一需要考虑的事。理想的床头柜要配一个放书或电子产品的架子，还要有一个以上的抽屉，“方便人们存放从基甸版圣经(Gideon Bible)到零食的各种物品。”58岁的格拉尔尼克说。他还说，如果是自己的话，还会给抽屉上锁，免得好事的客人和好奇的小孩将它打开。
The cabinets in question fit all that criteria (apart from the lock) and, better yet, they were a mirror-image pair.
前文里颇有争议的置物柜，就满足上述所有要求（只是不带锁）；更棒的是，这款柜子是一对的。
The Blu Dot Modu-licious table, which Mr. Goralnick has used in several interiors projects, met most of those requirements as well. Moreover, he said, “the metal drawer comes in several color choices, the handle on the asymmetrical door is really clever and the hole in the back for cords and chargers is a thoughtful detail.”
格拉尔尼克曾在好几个室内装潢项目中，用到过Blu Dot推出的Modu-licious置物桌，它也满足上述大多数条件。而且，他说，“金属抽屉有好几种颜色可选。不对称柜门上的拉手真的很精巧。而背面设计了一个孔洞，便于绳索和充电线缆通过，这是一个贴心的细节。”
Mr. Goralnick also liked the Van Dyke table from Mitchell Gold & Bob Williams, because the drawer on the bottom had a secret. “It’s red lacquer on the inside, a romantic surprise for the owner or an overnight guest,” he said.
格拉尔尼克还喜欢Mitchell Gold & Bob Williams推出的凡·戴克(Van Dyke)置物桌，因为它的底部抽屉有一个秘密。“里面涂有红色亮漆，这对于主人家或留宿的客人来说，都是一个浪漫的惊喜。” 他说。
He found the tubular Pigmillion from Pompidou, at Bespoke Global, appealing for the opposite reason. “The night stand is turned inside out,” he said. “It’s like the Pompidou Center in Paris: the guts are on the outside of the structure. Instead of hidden glides, all the hardware is visible.”
他在Bespoke Global在线定制家具店里，找到了蓬皮杜(Pompidou)推出的多管式置物柜Pigmillion。而它之所以引人注目，则是出于相反的原因。“这台床头柜是内外相反的，”他说，“就像巴黎的蓬皮杜中心(Pompidou Center)一样：内部结构暴露在建筑的外面。所有零件都能看得见，并没有隐藏起来。”
If the Pigmillion was a “meta-statement,” Mr. Goralnick said, the Evan Lobel Super Nova table at Lobel Modern was a safer choice. “This is a classic Karl Springer-inspired piece that works absolutely anywhere,” he said.
格拉尔尼克说，如果嫌Pigmillion太“前卫了点”，那么由洛贝尔现代家居(Lobel Modern)推出的、伊万·洛贝尔(Evan Lobel)设计的超新星(Super Nova)置物桌，则是一个更保险的选择。“这是受到卡尔·斯普林格(Karl Springer)的灵感启发创作出的一件经典作品。它完全是百搭的。”他说。