TOKYO — Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan won a commanding majority for his party in parliamentary elections Sunday, NHK, the public broadcaster said, fueling his hopes of revising the nation’s pacifist Constitution.
东京——据公共广播机构日本放送协会(NHK)报道，首相安倍晋三(Shinzo Abe)周日在议会选举中取得了压倒性胜利，推进了他修改日本和平宪法的希望。
NHK said that Abe’s governing Liberal Democratic Party and its allies had overcome challenges from upstart rivals to capture two-thirds of the seats in the lower house of parliament. Final results will be delayed until later Monday because a typhoon that battered Japan on Sunday prevented votes from being counted in 12 precincts. But with the majority of votes counted, the Liberal Democrats and their coalition partner had won enough seats to reach the two-thirds mark.
NHK说，安倍晋三的自民党(Liberal Democratic Party)及其执政联盟克服了新生对手的挑战，获得了众议院三分之二的席位。由于周日的台风袭击导致日本有12个选区尚未点票，最终结果将延迟到周一晚些时候揭晓。但是，由于大多数选票已经统计，自民党及其盟友已经获得了足够多的席位，超过了三分之二的门槛。
Pre-election opinion polls had shown lukewarm support for the prime minister’s policies and competition from a party founded by Tokyo’s popular governor, Yuriko Koike, as well as another new center-left party.
选举前的民意调查显示，安倍晋三的政策获得了不温不火的支持，他面临着人气高涨的东京都知事小池百合子(Yuriko Koike)创立的一个党派，以及另一个新的中左翼党派的竞争。
For Abe, the results were a vindication of his strategy to call a snap election a year earlier than expected, and they raised the possibility that he would move swiftly to try to change the Constitution to make explicit the legality of the Self-Defense Forces, as Japan’s military is known.
对于安倍晋三，选举的结果证明他比预期提前一年进行大选的策略是有效的。现在他可能会迅速采取行动来修改宪法，明确自卫队(Self-Defense Forces)的合法地位。自卫队是日本军队的名字。
The Constitution, in place since 1947, calls for the renunciation of war, and Abe said in May that it should be amended to remove any doubt about the military’s legitimacy, a view he reiterated Sunday evening.
现行宪法于1947年起生效，要求放弃战争；而安倍晋三5月表示应该修改宪法，消除对军方合法性的所有疑问。他在周日晚上重申了这个观点。
Amending the Constitution requires the support of two-thirds of both houses of parliament. Abe’s party and its allies had those numbers before Sunday’s elections, but the prime minister’s political woes earlier this year, along with the public’s doubts about a constitutional change, created the possibility that he would lose the supermajority in the lower house.
修改宪法需要获得参众两院三分之二的支持。自民党及其盟友在周日的选举前就拥有这个票数，但今年早些时候安倍晋三陷入的政治麻烦，以及公众对宪法改革的怀疑，导致他有可能在众议院失去绝对多数。
Even with the votes he needs in parliament, Abe now must persuade the public, as any constitutional change needs to be approved by a majority of voters.
即使在议会拥有了他所需的票数，安倍晋三现在也必须说服公众，因为宪法的任何改变都需要得到多数选民的批准。
Sunday’s parliamentary victory could also embolden Abe to run next year for a third term as leader of the Liberal Democrats.
周日在议会获得胜利之后，安倍晋三可能会作为自民党领导人竞选他的第三个任期。
But the results were a setback for Koike, who started her new party, Kibou no To, or Party of Hope, with great fanfare just hours before Abe called the early election last month. After she decided not to run for office, voters lost interest.
但是，这个选举结果对小池百合子是个打击。就在上个月安倍晋三要求提前选举的数小时之前，小池百合子成立了“希望之党”；但是在她决定不参选之后，选民就失去了兴趣。