Shortly before their marriage around two years ago, Michelle and Andrew Gasparovic moved to New York from Boston. With just a few days to find a place, they rented a one-bedroom with a balcony at Tribeca Pointe, on the waterfront at the north end of Battery Park City.
大约两年前，米歇尔(Michelle)与安德鲁·加什帕罗维奇(Andrew Gasparovic)在结婚前不久，从波士顿搬到了纽约。他们只有几天时间来找地方，于是在炮台公园城(Battery Park City)北部靠近水边的Tribeca Pointe大楼中，租住了一套带阳台的单卧室公寓。
They liked the apartment and the view, but not the location. Groups of motorcyclists made West Street difficult to cross. The winter wind whipping along Chambers Street was so strong, there were times when “we wouldn’t have left the house if we didn’t have to,” Mrs. Gasparovic said. “It is such a deterrent.”
他们喜欢这套公寓和这里的景色，却不喜欢它所处的位置。西街(West Street)上川流不息的摩托车让人很难过马路。而且，冬季里沿着钱伯斯街(Chambers Street)吹来的风太大了，所以很多时候“我们会迫不得已必须从房子里走出来，”加什帕罗维奇太太说，“这是个相当大的隐患。”
“The neighborhood wasn’t really us,” she said. “It was really family-oriented.”
“而且，这个社区也的确不太适合我们，”她说，“这里其实更偏向于家庭社区。”
Their social life took place in the East Village and on the Lower East Side. “We were tired of taking two trains every time we wanted to go out,” she said.
他们的社交生活都在东村和下东区。“每次我们想出去，都得赶两趟火车，疲惫不堪。”她说。
Their rent, around $3,900 a month, would be rising to around $4,500. “That was more than we could justify paying,” said Mr. Gasparovic, a Google software engineer. Last fall, the couple decided to move to a more suitable part of town.
他们的房租每月大概3900美元（约合人民币24288元），即将涨到约4500美元（约合人民币28025元）。“超出了我们觉得合理的金额，”身为谷歌软件工程师的加什帕罗维奇先生说。于是去年秋天，夫妇俩决定搬到更合适的地方去住。
One weekend, they stopped into Miron Properties and met an agent there, Amy J. Cruz. They told her they wanted an alcove studio or a one-bedroom with sunny outdoor space and a spacious kitchen, for around $3,000 a month.
在一个周末，他们在Miron地产公司逗留了一阵，认识了那里的一位经纪人艾米·J·克鲁兹(Amy J. Cruz)。他们告诉她，他们想租一间带凹室的单间公寓，或者一间有露天户外空间和宽敞厨房的一居室公寓，租金大约在每月3000美元（约合人民币18683元）。
A balcony “was nonnegotiable,” Ms. Cruz said, “and that helped to narrow our search.”
阳台“是必不可少的，”克鲁兹说，“这个要求可以帮我们缩小搜寻范围。”
Mrs. Gasparovic, a freelance chef, had more free time during the day, so she went on the hunt with Ms. Cruz.
加什帕罗维奇太太是一名自由职业的厨师，白天有更多的空闲时间，所以她跟着克鲁兹一起去看房。
At Arabella 101 on Avenue D, a brand-new building that Mrs. Gasparovic called “crazy nice,” a one-bedroom was renting for around $3,000 a month. It had an east-facing balcony and a view of the Jacob Riis Houses, one of the New York City Housing Authority’s projects.
在D大道的Arabella 101这栋加什帕罗维奇太太称为“非常漂亮”的崭新大厦中，有一套一居室公寓，每月租金大约为3000美元。这套公寓带一个朝东的阳台，而且可以看见雅各布·里斯房屋(Jacob Riis Houses)，它是纽约市住房管理局(New York City Housing Authority)的众多项目之一。
Only after they left did Mrs. Gasparovic realize how far east it was. “That was the one big glaring problem,” she said. “It was the situation we were already in. We lived in a nice apartment that wasn’t anywhere near where we wanted to be near.” Nor were there many places to shop for food in the area, a problem in her line of work.
她们刚离开那儿，加什帕罗维奇太太就意识到，那套公寓的位置太偏东了。“那是最不能忽视的一个大问题，”她说，“我们目前的情况已经是这样了，虽然所住的那套公寓相当不错，但它离我们想去的地方都非常远。”而且那里也没什么地方可以购买食品，就她所从事的行业而言，这的确是个问题。
On East 10th Street near Third Avenue, a five-story building had an unusual one-bedroom, with one floor “divided into three different levels,” Ms. Cruz said. Rent was also around $3,000 a month. But the apartment was on the bottom floor and the outdoor space, below street level, was near a cluster of trash cans — “perfect for feet-watching,” Mrs. Gasparovic said. She decided ground-floor units were out.
在东10街(East 10th Street)近第三大道(Third Avenue)的位置，一栋五层大楼里有一套与众不同的一居室公寓，房间地面“被分成了三层，”克鲁兹说。租金大约也是每个月3000美元。但是这套公寓位于大楼底层，而且户外空间位于街道水平面之下，还靠近一堆垃圾箱——“很适合观察大街上行人的脚，”加什帕罗维奇太太说。她决定不考虑底层公寓。
Farther east on East 10th Street, near Avenue C, a small one-bedroom for around $2,800 turned out to be on the top floor of a walk-up building. “I could only imagine me with my bags of groceries, trying to haul them up the stairs,” Mrs. Gasparovic said.
在东10街上，再往东走一点，在靠近C大道(Avenue C)的地方有一套小面积的一居室公寓，每月的租金大约2800美元（约合人民币17438元），但位于一栋无电梯大厦的顶层。“我想的全是自己拎了很多购物袋，还得吃力地把那些袋子往楼上拽的样子，”加什帕罗维奇太太说。
Mr. Gasparovic was relieved that his wife encountered no truly awful features, like a bathtub in the kitchen. “There is always the fear that you’ve gone too low in the budget,” he said.
加什帕罗维奇先生庆幸妻子没遭遇到什么可怕的设计，比如在厨房里安个浴缸什么的。“你总会担心自己的预算是不是太低了。”他说。
They found the right combination of apartment and location at a 1989 brick building on East Houston Street. Called Red Square, it has a statue of Lenin on a corner of the roof, a lively central location and funky décor in the lobby. Mrs. Gasparovic visited a one-bedroom facing south with a sunny balcony, plenty of closet space and a pass-through window from kitchen to living room.
他们在东休斯顿街(East Houston Street)一栋建于1989年的砖砌大楼中，找到了环境与位置结合最佳的公寓。这栋大楼名为红场(Red Square)，屋顶一角立着一尊列宁像，位置处于热闹的中心城区，大厅里的装修也很时髦。加什帕罗维奇太太看了一套朝南的一居室公寓，那里有一个露天阳台、有充足的衣柜空间，客厅与厨房之间还有一扇传菜的玻璃窗。
“I knew she liked it,” Ms. Cruz said. “She started measuring.”
“我知道她喜欢这里，”克鲁兹说，“她开始权衡了。”
When Mr. Gasparovic saw it a few days later, he liked it, too, so he took pictures of things like electrical outlets, to figure out how they could arrange their furniture.
几天后，加什帕罗维奇先生看了这套公寓，也很喜欢，于是他给插座之类的东西拍了些照片，考虑他们要怎样摆放家具。
“I looked in the circuit-breaker box,” he said. “I like to make sure there are no obvious signs of weird, shoddy repairs or modifications.”
“我看了看断路器的开关盒，”他说，“想确认那里没有被胡乱修理和改动过。”
They rented the place for $2,925 a month, paying a broker fee of 15 percent of a year’s rent, or $5,265, and arrived in the winter. “I liked everything about it and found it a funny, quirky building,” Mrs. Gasparovic said. The wall near the elevator on their floor has a kind of half-man, half-octopus mosaic.
他们以每月2925美元（约合人民币18216元）的价格，租下了这个地方，并支付了一笔相当于该公寓年租金15%的中介费，也就是5265美元（约合人民币32789元）。然后，他俩就在当年冬天搬了进来。“我喜欢这里的一切，还发现这是一栋古怪而有趣的大楼，”加什帕罗维奇太太说。他们那层楼电梯旁的墙上，有一幅半人、半章鱼的马赛克画。
“All of the artistic touches and oddities end in the hallway,” Mr. Gasparovic said. “The apartment itself is a totally standard place.” The couple have added temporary wallpaper to lend it some personality.
“所有带艺术感的东西和稀奇古怪的东西，都只限于走廊，”加什帕罗维奇先生说，“这套公寓本身是一套完全标准的住宅。”夫妻俩已经在墙壁上贴了临时壁纸，让屋里多了一点个性。
Mrs. Gasparovic especially likes the pass-through kitchen cutout. “Now I have all this light, and if Andrew is home I can talk to him while I’m working,” she said. “I am not holed up in the kitchen.”
加什帕罗维奇太太特别喜欢厨房传菜窗口的设计。“厨房里现在有了足够的光线，而且，如果安德鲁在家，我工作的时候还可以跟他说话，”她说，“而不是完全窝在厨房里。”
On the balcony, which overlooks East Houston Street, she plans to grow herbs — chervil and sage, perhaps chives.
她打算在这个可以俯瞰东休斯顿街的阳台上种些花花草草——比如山萝卜和鼠尾草，或者是细香葱。