Hollywood studios try to avoid opening big movies on the same weekend, to avoid diluting the buzz and the press coverage. “Oh, no — we can’t open that day,” one might say. “ ‘Titanic II: The Return’ is opening that weekend.”
好莱坞的电影公司总是避免在同一个周末首映好几部大片，以免稀释影片的市场反响及媒体报道。公司可能说，“噢，不，我们不能那天首映，那个周末，《泰坦尼克2：归来》要首映。” 
That’s usually the way it works with the tech companies, too, especially as the holiday shopping season begins.
科技公司通常也是这么做的，尤其是当节日购物季开始时。 
This year, though, a barrage of huge tech announcements all landed within about a week. Windows 8. Microsoft Surface. The iPad Mini. Google Chromebook. The Barnes & Noble Nook HD. Windows Phone 8. A 10-inch Samsung tablet and a new Google phone.
然而，今年， 一连串重大技术新品在一周左右的时间里纷纷现身。微软Win8平板电脑。iPad Mini。谷歌的Chromebook。巴诺书店(Barnes & Noble)的Nook HD。 Windows Phone 8。10英寸屏的三星平板电脑和新的谷歌手机。
All right, tech industry. You want splintered news coverage? You got it. You get to share this column: one-third of a column each for the three big touch-screen headlines of the week. Meet the iPad Mini, Nook HD and Windows Phone 8.
好吧，科技产业，你们想要分散的新闻报道吗？就满足你们吧。这片专栏文章就分别谈你们的几个产品，本周发布的三大触屏设备，iPad Mini、Nook HD和Windows Phone 8，各占三分之一的篇幅。
The iPad Mini 
iPad Mini
The rumors were true: Apple now has a smaller iPad.
传闻是真的：现在，苹果有了更小的iPad。
The iPad Mini is half the weight of the big iPad (0.7 pounds versus 1.4), thinner (. 28 inches versus .37), shorter (7.9 inches versus 9.5) and narrower (5.3 inches versus 7.3). Those specs add up to one towering meta-change: you can comfortably hold this iPad in one hand. It’s still too wide for a blazer pocket, alas, but it’s certainly purse-size and overcoat pocketable.
原来的大iPad重1.4磅，厚0.37英寸，高9.5英寸，宽7.3英寸。 iPad Mini比它轻一半，而且更薄，更短，更窄，仅重0.7磅，厚0.28英寸，高7.9英寸，宽5.3英寸。这些特点加起来，是巨大变化：这个iPad可以用一只手握住，非常舒服。虽然还是太宽，放不到上衣口袋里，但是绝对可以放在女士手包里或大衣口袋里。
It’s available in white-and-silver and black-on-black, both with metal backs, both gorgeous.
iPad Mini推出了两款：白面银底和黑面黑底。两款都有金属背壳，都非常漂亮。
Apple’s masterstroke was keeping the screen shape and resolution the same as on the iPad 2 (1,024 by 768 pixels). As a result, the Mini can run all 275,000 existing iPad apps unmodified, plus 500,000 more iPhone apps. The text and graphics are a little smaller, but perfectly usable.
苹果的妙举在于使其屏幕形状及分辨率与iPad2（1024x768像素）保持一致。因此，Mini可以运行27.5万种现有的iPad应用程序，不需要做任何修改， 还能运行另外50万种iPhone应用程序。其文字和图像略小，但是用起来完全没有问题。
Sadly, the Mini doesn’t gain Apple’s supercrisp Retina display. Nobody’s going to complain about the sharpness — it packs in 163 pixels per inch (ppi) — but it’s not the same jaw-dropping resolution as the big iPad (264 ppi). Gotta hold something back for next year’s model, right?
遗憾的是，Mini不具备苹果尖端的Retina显示技术。没有人会抱怨它每英寸163像素(ppi)的清晰度，但它没有大iPad那种令人惊叹的高分辨率(264ppi)。是要留着点儿什么，等到明年发布新款时再用吗？
You pay $330 for the base model (16 gigabytes of storage, Wi-Fi connections). Prices run all the way up to $660 for four times the storage and the option to go online over the cell network.
基本配置的Mini售价330美元（16G的存储量，带无线网络连接功能，约合2000元人民币）。高配置的存储量是基本款的四倍，还有通过移动电话网络上网功能，售价要高达660美元。
By pricing the Mini so high, Apple allows the $200 class of seven-inch Android tablets and readers to live (Google Nexus, Kindle Fire HD, Nook HD). Those tablets also, by the way, have high-definition screens (1,280 by 800 pixels), which the Mini doesn’t.
苹果把Mini的价位定的这么高，就给200美元的7英寸安卓平板电脑和电子书留下了生存空间。这些设备包括谷歌的Nexus，Kindle Fire HD和Nook HD。而且，这些平板电脑也有Mini所不具备的高清屏幕（1280x800像素）。
But the iPad Mini is a far classier, more attractive, thinner machine. It has two cameras instead of one. Its fit and finish are far more refined. And above all, it offers that colossal app catalog, which Android tablet owners can only dream about.
但是，iPad Mini更经典、更迷人、更薄。它有两个摄像头而非一个。每一个细节的处理都更精心。最重要的是，它有大量的应用软件可供选择，安卓平板电脑的用户只能梦里想想。
Over all, the Mini gives you all the iPad goodness in a more manageable size, and it’s awesome. You could argue that the iPad Mini is what the iPad always wanted to be.
总体来说，Mini的小巧让你可以轻松掌握，同时也能享用iPad所有的好处，真是棒极了。可以说，iPad Mini就是iPad一直想要成为的样子。
Barnes & Noble Nook HD 
Barnes & Noble Nook HD 
The redesign of this $200 e-book reader/video player focuses on the three things that matter most in a hand-held e-book reader: weight, size and screen clarity.
对标价200美元的电子书阅读器/电影播放器重新设计，重点关注手持电子书阅读器最重要的三个元素：重量、尺寸及屏幕清晰度。
In those ways, the Nook HD trounces its nemeses, Amazon’s Kindle Fire HD and Google’s Nexus 7. The Nook is lighter (11.1 ounces, versus 12 on the Nexus and 13.9 on the Kindle) and noticeably narrower, despite the same-size screen, because it has a far slimmer bezel. You can wrap your hand around its back, even if you’re dainty of hand.
在这些方面，Nook HD力挫其劲敌亚马逊Kindle Fire HD和谷歌Nexus 7。与它们相比，Nook更轻（Nook重11.1盎司，Nexus重12盎司，Kindle重13.9盎司。1盎司=28.350克——译注）；而且尽管屏幕大小相同，Nook却因为有更薄的边框，所以机身显然更窄 。即使你的手很娇小，你也可以单手握住它的后壳。
And the screen is much sharper: 1,440 by 900 pixels (versus 1,280 by 800). At 243 dots ppi, the Nook’s screen comes dangerously close to the iPad Retina’s 264 ppi. Wow, is this screen sharp. Movies, books and magazines pop.
而且它的屏幕更清晰：1440x900像素（以前的版本是1280x800）。Nook的屏幕分辨率 243ppi，逼近了iPad 的264ppi Retina。很清晰吧。看电影，阅读报纸杂志，图像鲜明，呼之欲出。
Whites are so white on this screen, it could be a Clorox commercial; the Nexus and Kindle screens look yellowish in comparison. (A 9-inch, $270 version, the Nook HD+, is also available.)
屏幕上的白色太白了，白到能给高乐氏漂白剂做广告了。相较之下，Nexus和Kindle的屏幕看起来都有点儿发黄。（标价270美元的9英寸Nook HD+也已面世。）
In the hardware war, Nook HD clearly wins this round. The Nook HD is fast, fluid and gorgeous; the Fire HD lags in all of those categories.
在硬件竞争中，Nook HD显然赢得了这一回合。Nook HD快捷、流畅、漂亮；Fire HD在这几个方面都落后了。
Then again, Amazon’s movie service — rent, buy or stream for free as part of the $80-a-year Prime program — is mature and delightful; Barnes & Noble’s movie store is just starting up. If you can tolerate that fledgling store awhile, then you’ll love the way B&N exploited its second-mover advantage.
然后就又要提到亚马逊成熟的、令人喜悦的电影服务了。用户可以租或者购买电影，也可以每年付80美元 ，购买一个Amazon Prime会员项目，就可以免费在线观看电影了。 Barnes & Noble的电影商店才刚刚起步。如果你能暂时容忍这个正在成长中的商店，你可能会爱上它利用其后发优势的做法。
Windows Phone 8 
Windows Phone 8
The good news in touch screens continues with Windows Phone 8. It’s what you’ll get on sleek coming phones like the Nokia Lumia 920 and HTC’s Windows Phone 8X (the one I tested).
Windows Phone 8延续了触屏市场的好消息。在即将面世的Nokia Lumia 920和 HTC的Windows Phone 8X这几款优美的新机型上，你将体验到这款操作系统。我测试的就是HTC的Windows Phone 8X。
Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7 — a fresh, colorful, efficient, tile-based alternative to the icon-based design of iPhone and Android — earned rave reviews. But few phones run it and few people have it.
微软的Windows Phone 7很新颖、色彩绚丽、工作效率高，显示屏幕是模块型的，而非iPhone 和安卓手机的图标型。它得到了极大的好评。但是很少手机使用这个操作系统，它的用户也不多。
Windows Phone 8 may look identical, but the company says it’s a complete rewrite based on underlying code from Windows 8 for PCs. It’s therefore ready for far more hardware flexibility than 7 was: multi-core processors, screens with different resolutions, phones with memory cards and so on.
Windows Phone 8看起来跟Windows Phone 7一模一样，但是微软称，它是在Windows 8个人电脑版基本代码基础上的完全改写。所以，在使用硬件方面，它比Windows Phone 7的灵活度要高得多，可以使用的硬件包括多核处理器、不同分辨率的屏幕、带有记忆卡的手机等等。
The Start screen is more customizable; you can choose from three different tile sizes. Apps can modify your Lock screen automatically; for example, the Groupon app might display a special offer that’s tailored to where you are right now.
它的初始屏幕更加个性化；模块大小有三种规格可以选择。 应用程序会自动调整你的锁屏画面；例如，团购网程序会根据你的所在位置，为你量身定做提供特别选项。
If you swipe leftward from the Lock screen, you enter Kid Corner, a truly inspired idea. It’s a quarantined world containing only apps, music and videos that you’ve handpicked for your offspring. Next time you hear, “I’m bored — can I play on your phone?” you can hand the phone over without worry; the phone, Web and text messages are off-limits.
在锁闭屏幕上向左滑动，你会进入儿童角(Kid Corner)，一个真正有想象力的创意。在这个隔离的空间里，只有你亲手为孩子选择的应用软件、音乐和视频。下次你的孩子说，“好无聊啊，我能玩儿你的手机吗？”你可以不用担心就把手机递给孩子。手机信息、网络和短信都是不能被访问的。
More solid improvements: The desktop software can load the phone with your iTunes music and video libraries. “Rooms” are private groups — Bowling Buddies, Teen Party and so on — whose members can share their locations, calendars, photos and chats. You can now back up the phone online.
还有一些更加实在的改进：桌面软件可以把你的iTunes音乐和视频收藏装入手机。“房间功能”(Rooms)指的是私人小组——保龄球友，青少年派对等。小组成员可以分享自己的地点、日程、照片和聊天内容。你现在可以在线实现手机备份。
Two juicy features are promised for the coming months: a “pay with your phone” option brought to you by NFC (near-field communication) chips in phones, and Data Sense, which tries to conserve Internet data and monitors your monthly allotment.
接下来的几个月，会推出两个非常棒的功能。手机中的NFC（近距离无线通讯）芯片会为你提供“手机付费”功能，及“数据监测”功能(Data Sense)，可以保存上网数据，并监控你的每月流量使用状况。
Microsoft’s phone software is fast, simple and beautiful. But it still lacks universal dictation for quick text entry. Its new Maps app doesn’t offer spoken directions (in 2012? seriously?). And the audience won’t come until there are more great apps.
微软的手机软件快速、简捷、漂亮。但是却没有可以快速输入文字的语音功能。它的新地图应用程序也没有语音指路功能（不是吧，都2012了）。有了更强大的应用程序，才会有大量用户。
There are promising signs; Microsoft says there are 110,000 Windows Phone apps, and that software companies can reuse chunks of code from their Windows 8 programs. That should make it easier to bring new apps to the phone.
有一些迹象让人看到希望，微软说有11万个Windows Phone应用程序，软件公司还可以对他们的Windows 8的代码段进行再利用。这样可以易于为手机开发新的应用程序。
So there you have it: three touch-screen tech toys, each triumphant in its own way. One comes from a market leader hoping to swipe business from its bargain-basement rivals; two come from underdogs determined to make a bigger dent.
所以，现在你面前有三个触屏科技玩具，都各有千秋。一个来自市场领军者，想要从以低价取胜的对手手里抢夺市场，其余两个来自行业里的落后者，决心要扩大影响。