NEW DELHI — Over the last several years, as the yearning for a strong leader began to deepen and swell in the Indian electorate, one politician was systematically preparing himself to be the answer to that demand.
新德里——过去几年，随着印度选民对一个强大领导者的渴望日益加深，一名政治人物一直在系统地进行准备，希望自己可以成为这一需求的答案。
Narendra Modi, the leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party, has spent this campaign season standing above oceans of people — a stern, commanding figure who brags of his “56-inch chest.” He has offered himself as a C.E.O. for the nation, poised to slice through India’s bureaucracy with the sure hand of an experienced manager.
纳伦德拉·莫迪(Narendra Modi)——印度人民党(Bharatiya Janata Party)领袖——这个竞选季一直忙于在人山人海的竞选集会上发表演说。这个严肃的权威角色常常炫耀自己那“56英寸的胸膛”。他说自己要成为印度的CEO，将像一名经验丰富的经理人一样沉稳，去有效地解决印度官僚制度的问题。
This message has won him the confidence of India’s working and middle classes, who are pinched by food inflation, disillusioned with the Gandhi dynasty and wearied of the corruption scandals that have accumulated around the governing Congress party.
这种说法为他赢得了印度的工人阶级和中产阶级的信赖，这些民众正在为食品价格上涨所折磨，他们对甘地王朝的幻想已经破灭，而执政的国大党(Congress party)源源不断的腐败丑闻则让他们感到不厌其烦。
The election, which began on Monday as the first of India’s 814 million registered voters cast ballots in the country’s remote northeast, is less about policies than a desire for change.
周一，在印度偏远的东北部地区，印度的第一批选民开始投票，大选由此正式拉开了序幕。这次大选有注册选民8.14亿人。这次选举的决定性因素，与其说是竞选者提出的政策，倒不如说是选民对改变的渴望。
“The sentiment is that we have a slightly embarrassing leadership,” said Siddharth Khanna, 27, a Delhi advertising executive. “We are seen to be lagging. We feel if we have strong leadership, we will be insulated from the effects of the global slowdown. We don’t trust anyone, to be honest. But it might as well be someone who is aggressive in whatever stance he takes.”
德里的广告公司管理人员、27岁的西达尔特·康纳(Siddharth Khanna)说，“人们的感受是，我们的领导人有点令人颜面无光。我们正明显地落在后面。我们认为，如果我们拥有强大的领导人，我们就不会受到全球经济放缓的影响。老实说，我们不信任任何人。不过最好还是选择一个无论站在何种立场都勇往直前的人吧。”
It has never been clear what kind of leader Mr. Modi would be, should his coalition win enough seats to form a government after nine waves of votes are counted on May 16. At 63, he has shown radically different faces to the world as he has risen through the political system: Before campaigning on a technocratic, good-governance platform, Mr. Modi was shaped by his years working as a propagandist for a Hindu-right organization, and he was widely blamed for bloody religious riots that broke out in the state he governed.
5月16日，在九波投票的计票工作结束后，即使莫迪的联盟赢得了组建政府的足够席位，人们也并不清楚他会是一名怎样的领袖。在政治地位不断上升的过程中，现年63岁的莫迪曾经展示给世界多个截然不同的形象：他目前正在以技术治国和良政为施政纲领进行竞选，但在此之前，多年担任印度右翼组织宣传人员的经历对他产生了很大影响，除此之外，他也因为自己执政的邦内多次爆发血腥宗教冲突而广受批评。
He is enthusiastically embraced by international corporations, but he also answers to an electoral base of small traders dead set against globalization.
莫迪受到了跨国公司的热情接纳，而他的支持者也包括誓死反对全球化的小商贩选民团体。
His sometimes autocratic style may collide with several constraints, among them a boisterous press, activist courts and fractious allies, that have slowed his predecessors.
他那时而显得独断专行的风格可能会让他在与一些方面打交道时面临障碍，这其中包括活跃的媒体业、敢作敢为的法庭和派系林立的盟友，这些力量都曾对其前任造成束缚。
His method of governing may be determined by arithmetic. Opinion polls suggest that his National Democratic Alliance will emerge with the largest number parliamentary seats. Though Hindus make up 80 percent of India’s population, the country is a kaleidoscope of religious diversity, including a large Muslim population along with Christians, Sikhs and Buddhists. The constitution enshrines a secular state, and the country has a long history of accommodating a wide range of religious and ethnic diversity.
他的执政方法可能取决于数字。民调显示，他的全国民主联盟(National Democratic Alliance)将获得最多席位。印度是一个充斥宗教多样性的万花筒，尽管印度教徒在该国总人口中占80%，其人口中很大一部分是穆斯林，还包括基督教徒，锡克教信徒和佛教徒。宪法规定印度为世俗国家，印度长期以来一直为广泛的宗教和种族多样性提供了土壤。
If Indians disagree about Mr. Modi’s intentions, it is partly because he has reinvented himself several times. The son of a tea-stall owner in a small town, he traces his political awakening to the age of 8, when he began taking part in the evening drills of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a Hindu nationalist right-wing organization.
如果印度人不认同莫迪的主张，这可能是因为他曾数度改头换面。莫迪是一个小城茶店老板的儿子，他说自己的政治觉醒要追溯到8岁，在他刚开始参加印度教右翼组织民族志工组织（Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh，简称RSS）晚间操练的时候。
The R.S.S. offered him a way to break from family obligations, and he bucked his parents’ authority by walking away from an arranged marriage in favor of years of ascetic wandering; a new biography, distributed to journalists by the B.J.P., said he was turned away from three monasteries, finally returning to full-time work for the R.S.S.
民族志工组织给了莫迪一个摆脱家庭责任的机会，他违背了父母之命，逃脱了一桩父母安排的婚事，在此后的多年中如苦行僧一般四处流浪；人民党发给记者的莫迪的新简介中说，他曾被三座寺院拒绝，最后，他回到了民族志工组织，在那里进行全职工作。
In a rare television interview broadcast last week, Mr. Modi credited the organization with shaping him. “I got the inspiration to live for the nation from the R.S.S.,” he said. “It inculcated discipline into me. I learned to live for others, and not for myself. I owe it all to the R.S.S.”
在上周播出的一次罕见的电视采访中，莫迪称赞这个组织塑造了他。“为国家奉献此生的志向就是在RSS期间产生的，”他说。“它向我灌输了纪律性，我学会了要为他人而不是自己去生活。这些全部归功于RSS。”
Mr. Modi did not become famous for several decades after that, until he had risen through the ranks of the B.J.P. to become chief minister of his home state, Gujarat.
然而莫迪声名鹊起是几十年后的事情了。他在印度人民党内稳步高升，成为了故乡古吉拉特邦的首席部长。
By then, his ideological background had been thoroughly eclipsed by his international reputation as an effective manager. Corporate executives gushed about their experience in Gujarat, saying that Mr. Modi had increased efficiency by taking a tough approach with bureaucrats who worked under him. He asked judges to work extra hours to plow through a backlog of court cases, and put many state activities online, reducing corruption.
那时，他在国际上享有卓有成效的管理者的声望，所以意识形态背景并未受到关注。企业高管滔滔不绝地讲述在古吉拉特的经历，称莫迪采用强硬手段约束手下的官僚，所以提升了效率。他责成法官加班，处理法庭里积压的案件，并将邦政府的很多行政活动转移到网上，进而减少了腐败。
Rajeev Jyoti, managing director of Bombardier, a Canada-based aerospace and transportation company, recalled approaching Mr. Modi’s office in 2007, after winning a contract to produce subway cars. Eighteen months later, the factory was built and operating, Mr. Jyoti said in an interview. “It was incredible,” he said, “and it was a world record within Bombardier.”
加拿大航空和运输企业庞巴迪(Bombardier)的董事总经理拉吉夫·乔迪(Rajeev Jyoti)回忆起2007年赢得制造地铁列车的合同后，与莫迪的办公室接洽的经历。乔迪接受采访时说，过了18个月，工厂就已经建成投入运营了。“难以置信，”他说。“这在庞巴迪内部是一项世界纪录。”
One big event stained Mr. Modi’s reputation. Months after he took control of Gujarat, in 2002, Hindu-Muslim riots erupted in the state, killing more than 1,000 people, most of them Muslims. The violence was set off after a Muslim crowd attacked a train car carrying Hindu activists. The car caught fire, and 59 people burned to death inside, though a central government investigation found that the fire was an accident.
一起大事件损害了莫迪的声誉。在他主政古吉拉特邦数月后，该邦在2002年发生了印度教徒与穆斯林之间的冲突，骚乱造成超过1000多人死亡，其中多数是穆斯林。骚乱的起因是一群穆斯林对一辆载满印度教活动人士的火车发起了袭击。之后车厢起火，导致里面有59人被烧死。不过中央政府开展的一项调查认定，火灾是意外发生的。
Police responded slowly, witnesses said, as unspeakable violence unfolded over several days. At one point, a Hindu mob armed with stones, iron rods and homemade bombs surrounded a walled compound where Muslim families had taken refuge. The compound’s owner, Ehsan Jafri, a former member of Parliament, spent hours making frantic calls to high-ranking officials, begging for police protection, but they arrived late, witnesses said. Sixty-nine people, including women and children, burned to death with Mr. Jafri.
目击者说，警方反应迟缓，可怖的暴力接连持续了数日。一群印度教暴民曾以石块、铁棍和土制炸弹为武器，包围了穆斯林家庭避难的一处有围墙的院落。院落的主人艾山·贾夫里(Ehsan Jafri)曾是印度国会议员，他接连几小时仓皇地向高官打电话求助，乞求警方保护。但目击者说，警察来晚了。有69人与贾夫里一同被活活烧死，其中包括妇女和儿童。
For years, Mr. Modi’s critics have argued that he failed to take steps to halt the violence, and he has denied any responsibility. In a 2002 interview, he said his only regret about the episode was that he did not handle the news media better.
多年来，莫迪的批评者一直称他未能采取措施制止暴行，而他否认自己有任何责任。在2002年的一次采访中，他说他对事件唯一惋惜的就是没能更好地处理与新闻媒体的关系。