The social and political fissures that have left Americans walled off from one another along lines of race, class, education, gender and religion played out in stark ways in this election, a contest that has left people pessimistic about the future of their country and uninspired with their choices of who should lead it.
在这次选举中，美国人对国家的未来感到悲观，对国家领导者的选择缺乏信心，社会和政治裂缝让人们在种族、阶级、教育、性别和宗教方面相互隔绝，在选举中发挥了鲜明的作用。
Eight years after the election of the first African-American president held the promise of breaking down the country’s deep and longstanding racial divisions, American society seemed as polarized as ever, according to surveys of early voters and exit polls conducted on Tuesday.
本周二的早期投票者调查和出口民调显示，在美国第一个非裔美国人总统获选、承诺要打破深层而长期的种族分裂的八年之后，美国社会的两极分化似乎一如既往。
Donald J. Trump’s coalition was almost exclusively white, and leaned heavily toward male and older voters. He won whites without college degrees by more than two to one.
唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)的阵营几乎全是白人，而且严重偏向男性和年龄偏长的选民。他赢得没有大学文凭的白人选民的比率超过2比1。
Hillary Clinton’s coalition, by contrast, was an amalgam of demographics that have been moving steadily away from the Republican Party: women and wealthier and better-educated Americans. She also held onto the people who formed the backbone of President Obama’s coalition in both 2008 and 2012: blacks, Hispanics, Asians, unmarried women and first-time voters.
相比之下，希拉里·克林顿的阵营融合了各类人群，而且逐渐走向与共和党相反的方向：女性、较富裕以及受教育程度更高的美国人。她也抓住了奥巴马总统在2008年和2012年两次大选中的核心人群：黑人、西语裔、亚裔、未婚女性和首次投票的人。
Voters appeared united in displeasure with the choices before them. Neither candidate was viewed favorably; more than half of voters saw Mrs. Clinton unfavorably and slightly more, about six in 10, had an unfavorable opinion of Mr. Trump.
选民对摆在自己面前的选项不太满意，在这一点上他们非常一致。两位候选人都不太受欢迎；有超过一半的选民不喜欢克林顿，而略微更多一些的人——10个人里有6个——对特朗普有负面看法。
Voters expressed deep misgivings about both candidates, but close to four in 10 said they would be scared if Mr. Trump were elected.
选民对两位候选人都表达了深深的疑虑，但有将近40%的人表示，如果特朗普当选，他们会感到担忧。
These results were drawn from the early analysis of Edison Research surveys of thousands of voters leaving the polls, and of telephone interviews with some of the roughly 47 million Americans who voted early.
这些是对爱迪生研究(Edison Research)的调研结果进行初步分析后得出的结果。他们对数以千计离开投票点的选民进行了问卷调查，还对4700万提前投票的美国人中的一些进行了电话访问。
Anxiety was widespread. Americans expressed concern about their financial well-being, their children’s futures and the fitness and trustworthiness of their leaders.
焦虑情绪颇为普遍。美国民众对他们的财务状况、子女的未来、领导人是否适合岗位，及其可信度表示担忧。
Three in five voters said the country was seriously on the wrong track and about the same number said the economy was either not good or poor. Two-thirds said their personal financial situation was either worse or the same as it was four years ago. About one in three voters said they expected life to be worse for the next generation.
五分之三的选民称美国走在严重错误的道路上，认为经济不景气或疲软的选民比例大致相同。三分之二的人表示个人财务状况更糟，或是和四年前一样。大约三分之一的选民预计下一代的生活会变得更糟糕。
Mr. Trump’s unusual assault on the impartiality of the country’s elections appeared to have an effect, but mostly among his supporters. Nearly seven in 10 of Mrs. Clinton’s voters were very confident that the votes in their state would be counted accurately. But fewer than three in 10 of Mr. Trump’s supporters said they trusted the electoral process.
特朗普抨击美国选举公正性的少见之举似乎起了效果，但主要是在他的支持者中。克林顿的支持者中，近70%的人非常确信自己所在州的选票会得到准确的清点。但特朗普的支持者中，表示信任选举程序的人不到30%。
Some demographic trends seem to be hardening. Twelve years ago, George W. Bush made inroads with Hispanic voters who many Republicans confidently said would form the basis of an enduring conservative majority. But today’s Republican Party is repelling them. Mr. Trump’s performance among Hispanics, at just over a quarter of the vote, was similar to Mitt Romney’s in 2012, but far below Mr. Bush’s 44 percent support in 2004.
一些人口结构趋势似乎正在加强。12年前，乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)凭借西语裔选民攻城略池，很多共和党人自信满满地表示，西语裔选民将在很长时间里成为一个保守派多数党的基础。但如今，共和党在推走西语裔选民。特朗普在西语裔选民中的得票率仅略高于四分之一，与米特·罗姆尼(Mitt Romney)在2012年的表现类似，但远低于布什2004年44%的支持率。
Americans were in a foul mood about the state of their country’s politics. Nearly half of voters were dissatisfied with the way the federal government is working and another quarter were angry. Only a quarter were satisfied, and far fewer were enthusiastic.
美国民众对美国的政治现状感到不快。近一半的选民不满于联邦政府的工作方式，四分之一的人感到愤怒。感到满意的人仅占四分之一，对其充满热情的人则还要少得多。
The results contained blaring warning signs for Republicans, who concluded after the 2012 election that changing demographics would reduce them to a permanent minority party unless they improved how blacks and Hispanics viewed them.
对共和党来说，相关结果包含危险的警告信号。在2012年的选举结束后，共和党断定，不断变化的人口结构可能会让它们沦为一个永久性的少数党，除非他们改善黑人和西语裔选民对他们的看法。
Mr. Trump’s nomination seemed to only exacerbate those trends, with his hostility toward many foreigners, his refusal at times to dissociate himself from avowed racists and his plan to ban Muslims from entering the United States.
特朗普的提名似乎只是加剧了这些趋势。他对很多外国人充满敌意，有时拒绝和公开承认种族主义者身份的人划清界限，并且计划禁止穆斯林入境。
Most voters rejected one policy proposal Mr. Trump vowed to pursue from the beginning and never backed away from: building a wall on the southern border with Mexico. A majority opposed that plan. Seven in 10 said that most undocumented immigrants working in the United States should be offered a chance to apply for legal status.
大部分选民反对特朗普提出的一项政策：在南部与墨西哥的边境上建一堵墙。特朗普从一开始就发誓要实行这一计划，从未放弃。大多数选民反对该计划。70%的人认为，应该向在美国工作的大部分无证件移民提供申请合法身份的机会。
Though immigration or terrorism did not rank at the top of most voters’ concerns, the majority of voters who said immigration or terrorism was their top issue favored Mr. Trump.
尽管移民和恐怖主义并不是大部分选民最关心的问题，但在自称最关心移民或恐怖主义的选民中，大多数支持特朗普。
Most voters who cited the economy — by far the top issue listed — or foreign policy as most important backed Mrs. Clinton, seemingly rejecting Mr. Trump’s insistence that his business background gave him a superior set of negotiating skills.
大部分认为经济——迄今为止远超其他的首要问题——或外交政策最重要的选民支持克林顿。他们似乎不认可特朗普一直以来坚持的观点，即商业背景让他拥有一套高超的谈判技巧。
While voters saw little to love in either candidate, they had a more forgiving view of Mr. Obama, who appeared to be benefiting from the overly negative tenor of the campaign.
尽管选民认为两名候选人身上几乎都没有可爱之处，但他们对奥巴马更宽容。后者似乎正在从此次选举过于负面的基调中受益。
Indeed, Mr. Obama’s ratings were a boost for Mrs. Clinton. A majority of voters said they approved of the job he was doing as president, and they backed Mrs. Clinton by huge margins.
的确，奥巴马的支持率对克林顿有利。大多数选民表示认可他担任总统时所作的工作，其中绝大部分人支持克林顿。
But neither Mr. Trump nor Mrs. Clinton were inspiring voters in the way that Mr. Obama did. Four in 10 voters said they strongly favored the candidate they supported, and a quarter of voters said they were motivated by dislike for the other candidate. In 2012, about two-thirds of voters said they strongly favored their candidate.
但特朗普和克林顿均未能像奥巴马那样激励选民。40%的选民表示强烈支持自己心仪的候选人，四分之一的选民表示自己的动机是不喜欢另一名候选人。在2012年，大约三分之二的选民表示非常喜欢自己支持的候选人。