The sofa of my dreams is low and blocky, with cushions covered in different fabrics. It has big, cheerful buttons tacked on the back and a casual asymmetry that invites sprawling. Designed by Hella Jongerius for Vitra, the sofa, called Polder, costs at least $9,500. Which is why it furnishes only my fantasy life. But if a pile of extra cash were to drop in my lap, I would consider the indulgence.
我的梦中沙发要低矮而敦实，有各种不同面料制成的靠垫。沙发背面缝着大颗大颗的漂亮扣子，休闲的不对称款式令人情不自禁想要躺上去。这，就是由赫拉·荣格里斯(Hella Jongerius)为Vitra设计的一款名为“堤围”(Polder)的沙发。其造价至少也要9500美元（约合人民币58203.65元）。这就是它只能装点我的幻想生活的缘故。但如果有一天一叠钞票掉到我面前，我会考虑放纵一把，把它买回家。
In my mind’s ear, I hear my husband chanting “Crate & Barrel, Crate & Barrel” in protest. But wait. A sofa is made to accommodate long hours of immobility, and that’s a tough job. No other household piece does more work. In fact, much of what we call furniture serves as the sofa’s lieutenants. Innumerable coffee tables, reading lamps and tray tables have sprung up to assist in the social and recreational activities a sofa supports. And now furniture companies are turning out laptop-proportioned desks for the growing number of people who perform their jobs on their sofas.
在脑海深处，我总是听到丈夫诵经般不停念叨着“Crate & Barrel, Crate & Barrel（美国家居用品连锁店，定位比宜家[IKEA]略高——译注）”，以表示他反对购买如此昂贵的沙发。但等等。沙发是用来长时间舒适地躺卧的家具，这可是一项艰巨的工作。如此大的强度，没有任何其它家具能与之匹敌。事实上，我们所说的家具，大部分都扮演着沙发“副官”的角色。不胜枚举的咖啡桌、阅读台灯和折叠餐桌的涌现，都只是为了协助沙发来支持人们的社交及休闲活动。喜欢在沙发上工作的人也越来越多，于是家具公司现在纷纷推出笔记本电脑专用桌，以满足这些人的需要。
Doesn’t such an important item deserve to be more than humdrum? To be superbly made so that its frame won’t sag and its cushions will retain their geometries, despite the best efforts of your athletic children? To be beautiful, so you can scrimp on floor coverings and window treatments, which no one will notice anymore because they’ll be so busy admiring your designer sofa?
如此重要的一件家具，它的设计怎可乏善可陈？首先，沙发一定要造得够结实，无论你家那些和运动员一样精力旺盛的孩子在上面怎么闹腾，它的框架都不会下陷，垫子也不会变形。其次，沙发要足够漂亮，这样就能在你家的地毯和窗帘上节省开支了。当客人们都忙着欣赏、夸奖你的订制沙发时，还有谁会注意到它们呢？
The sofa of your dreams might also be Polder, which was named after the flat patchwork fields of the Netherlands. (Ms. Jongerius is Dutch.) It’s a lovely idea: to stretch out like a giant on a piece of precious territory in a country with excellent coffee. Or you might dream of Confluences, a Ligne Roset sectional whose sections lean into one another like cozy family members. Or My Beautiful Backside, an exquisitely tailored seat from Moroso inspired by benches and pillows in the royal houses of India.
你的梦中沙发也可能会是“堤围”(Polder)，名字源于荷兰围海造田的平原（荣格里斯是荷兰人）。这是个很可爱的想法：躺在沙发上，想象自己像一个巨人，在这座拥有上佳咖啡的国度，在它的一片宝贵国土上舒展开四肢。或者，你会梦想拥有一套“汇流”(Confluences)沙发，这是法国家具品牌Linge Roset推出的一款组合沙发。沙发的各个构件块块相连，就好像惬意的一家子。或者，你喜欢的是“我的美人靠”(My Beautiful Backside)——来自意大利家具生产商Moroso的精美手工缝制座椅，其灵感源自印度皇室使用的长椅和枕头。
Next week, a limited edition of Polder will be released in the United States, in fabrics by Ms. Jongerius and Paul Smith for Maharam. The price has been ratcheted up to $16,640 (and that doesn’t include the pouf). If my family were to use this rare sofa a conservative two hours a day for a conservative 20 years, that works out to a bit more than a dollar an hour. Less than we spend on cable!
下周（3月7日——译注），限量版的“堤围”沙发将在美国开售，其布料纹样是由荣格里斯和保罗·史密斯(Paul Smith)为美国纺织巨头Maharam设计的。它的价格已经被炒到了16640美元（约合人民币101948.29元，而这还仅仅是不含坐垫的价格）。如果我的家人在这款市面罕有的沙发上每天坐上2个小时，加上沙发的使用寿命保守估计可以达到20年，那么折合下来，每小时的使用费用大约是1美元出头（约合人民币7元）。这比我们的有线电视开支还便宜呢！
And its value might even accrue. Amy Lau, an interior designer whose clients include Elvis Costello and David Zinczenko, the former Men’s Health editor, said some sofas “are going to be the collectibles for tomorrow, so they will have value to them later on if they’re purchased correctly.”
更别说，沙发还可能会增值。室内设计师艾米·劳(Amy Lau)的客户包括曾任《男士健康》(Men’s Health)杂志编辑的埃尔维斯·科斯特洛(Elvis Costello)和大卫·金振克(David Zinczenko)。她说有些沙发“在未来可能具有收藏价值，如果买对了，它们身上的价值很快就能体现出来”。
In the long run, Ms. Lau added, a big investment in superior quality can even be prudent, as lower-priced models often don’t hold up over time. “I don’t know how many times I’ve seen a sofa in the four-, five-, six-thousand range,” she said, “and in three to four years it’s gone.”
劳还说，长远来看，将大额投资花在对高品质的追求上，才是精明的选择，因为便宜的“样子货”经不起时间的考验。“我已记不清自己看到过多少价格在四千、五千、六千美元档次的沙发了，”她说，“过不了三、四年，它们就报废了。”
Ms. Lau’s own sofa is a vintage piece designed by Harvey Probber, who pioneered sectional seating in the 1940s and died at the age of 80 in 2003. “I’m on my second upholstery,” she said.
劳自己的沙发，是一个由哈维·普罗博(Harvey Probber)这位上个世纪四十年代引领了组合沙发风潮的大师设计的二手古董货。普罗博于2003年以80岁的高龄去世。“我现在坐的是我的第二张沙发，”她说。