A RENOVATED HISTORIC HOME NEAR SWANSEA
一座经过修缮的历史住宅，靠近斯旺西(Swansea)
$1.28 MILLION (750,000 POUNDS)
128万美元（合75万英镑，约合人民币795万元）
Dating to the 18th century, this traditional Welsh stone “long house” on the Gower Peninsula has about 3,000 square feet of living space, with five bedrooms and three baths. Multiple levels and entrances offer flexible living arrangements, and there is the possibility of adding more habitable space. The one-third-acre property is fully landscaped, has a total of five barns and outbuildings, and is just a few minutes’ walk from the majestic sweep of Rhossili Bay, named as one of the best beaches in Europe and the world by TripAdvisor.
这座传统的威尔士石砌“长屋”位于高尔半岛(Gower Peninsula)，始建于18世纪，居住空间3000平方英尺（约合278.7平方米）左右，带有五间卧室、三间浴室，有多个楼层和入口，可灵活安排生活起居，居住空间还有扩建的可能。这处房产面积达三分之一英亩（约合1349平方米），已经过充分的造园开发，总共有五座谷仓和外部建筑。从这里出发步行几分钟，即可到达若西莉海湾(Rhossili Bay)，感受壮丽的海景。TripAdvisor将若西莉海湾称为欧洲、乃至全球最好的沙滩之一。
The entrance hall, formerly the kitchen, has an inglenook fireplace with a built-in bread oven and exposed ceiling beams. Off to the right are the dining room and the eat-in kitchen, which features custom-built wood cabinets and drawers with teak work surfaces, a farmhouse-style sink, and a double-wide gas/electric range. To the left of the entrance hall is a 27-foot-long sitting room, with radiant-heat stone floors and a fireplace with a massive oak mantelpiece.
门廊原本是厨房，设有一座壁炉、一台嵌入式面包烤箱，饰有裸露的横梁。右边是餐厅和带有用餐区的厨房，厨房里配备了多个定制的木橱柜和带有柚木台面的抽屉柜、一个农舍风格的水槽、一个双倍宽度的电/气两用灶。门廊左边是一间27英尺（约合8米）长的起居室，里面铺设了热辐射石地板，配有壁炉和巨大的橡木壁炉架。
Beyond the sitting room is a guest wing with a separate entrance and a bedroom that is next to a bathroom. Also on the first floor are a conservatory with double-glazed glass and a small attached barn area that is currently being used for storage.
从起居室再往里走，即可到达客用的耳房，有单独的入口和一间与浴室相邻的卧室。一楼还有一间温室，配备了双层玻璃窗，还有一间小型附属谷仓，目前用作储物间。
The second floor has four additional bedrooms. Three of the bedrooms are reached via a staircase off the main first-floor entrance, while the master suite is reached through the first-floor sitting room. Adjoining the master suite is a kitchenette and lounge/dining area, creating a self-contained apartment if so desired.
二楼另有四间卧室。其中三间可从一楼正门的楼梯进入，主卧套间则可以从一楼的起居室进入。主卧套间的旁边，有一间小厨房和休息/用餐区，如有需要，可将这里建成一处独立公寓。
The outbuildings on the property include a 180-square-foot barn with slate roof that is being used as a workshop, a smaller garden shed, a three-bay open barn used as a garage, and a 400-square-foot structure, with electricity, at the south end of the garden, for which planning permission has been secured to convert to a guest cottage. Photovoltaic panels on the roof of this structure keep the property’s energy bills low, according to Brett Garnet-Jones, the proprietor of Gower Coast Properties, which is listing the home.
这处房产的外部建筑包括：一间180平方英尺（约合17平方米）的谷仓，带有石板屋顶，目前用作工作间；一间面积稍小的花园棚屋；一座带有三个隔间的敞开式谷仓，目前用作车库；还有一间400平方英尺（约合37平方米）的建筑，已接入电路，坐落在花园南端，目前已取得规划许可，可改建为客房。据高尔海岸房地产公司(Gower Coast Properties)的所有者布莱特·加内特-琼斯(Brett Garnet-Jones)说，这座建筑的屋顶设有光伏板，可以节省电费。高尔海岸房地产公司负责这处房产的挂牌销售。
The property is in the hamlet of Pitton. Groceries and other staples are available in the regional center of Swansea, about 40 minutes away. The picturesque town of Mumbles, a favorite haunt of celebrities like the locally born Catherine Zeta-Jones, is a half-hour by car. Bristol, England, with its international airport, is two hours away, and London about four hours.
这处房产位于皮顿村(Pitton)。如需购买食品杂货和其它日常必需品，可以去斯旺西的地区购物中心，路程大约40分钟。风景如画的曼布尔斯镇(Mumbles)距离皮顿村有半小时车程，那里经常有社会名流出没，比如出生在当地的凯瑟琳·泽塔-琼斯(Catherine Zeta-Jones)。皮顿村到英格兰的布里斯托(Bristol)及其国际机场要用两小时，和伦敦的距离则是四个小时。
MARKET OVERVIEW
市场概览
The Gower Peninsula, about 73 square miles, had long flown under the radar of most vacationers and second-home buyers, said Nick Simpson, the principal of Simpsons Estate Agents, although it has the distinction of being named Britain’s first Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, in 1956. The Gower has historically been more oriented to the north coast of Devon and Cornwall in England, he said, and as a consequence very little Welsh is spoken there.
高尔半岛面积大约73平方英里（约合189平方公里）。据辛普森房地产经纪公司(Simpsons Estate Agents)的负责人尼克·辛普森(Nick Simpson)说，高尔半岛多年来一直未被大多数度假游客和度假屋买家注意到，虽然此地于1956年就成为了英国第一个被评为“杰出自然风景区”(Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty)的地方。辛普森指出，在历史上，高尔半岛与英格兰的德文郡(Devon)和康沃尔(Cornwall)北岸的联系更紧密，因此那里很少有人说威尔士语。
“On the north side, you have a sensitive estuary environment; on the south, you have the limestone cliffs and beaches. It’s an incredible contrast in a very small area,” said Mr. Simpson, an agent in the area for 40 years.
“北边是脆弱的河口环境；南边则是石灰岩峭壁和海滩。这在一个很小的区域范围内，形成了令人难以置信的反差，”辛普森说。他在当地已经做了四十年的经纪人。
But in the last decade, admiring articles in the British press and recognition from Britain’s growing surfing population have turned the Gower into a hot spot.
不过近十年来，高尔半岛不仅受到英国媒体的热捧，还在日益增长的冲浪群体中得到了认可，因而成为了热门旅游景点。
Real estate value “just tripled, quadrupled in the last 15 years,” said Mr. Garnet-Jones, who grew up in the area.
房地产价值“在过去15年里翻了三、四番”，加内特-琼斯表示。他是在当地长大的。
A buyer with a budget of $500,000 to $850,000 can find a small restored cottage, either inland or in one of the peninsula’s towns, or a larger contemporary house. Above that, to about $1.25 million, they can get a little bit of land and perhaps an ocean view. At the top of the market, up to about $2.5 million, are small estates and properties with substantial acreage or stunning cliff-top views. Even so, Mr. Simpson said, the Gower is so compact that even the less expensive inland properties are just a few minutes’ drive from the coast.
预算在50到85万美元（约合人民币311到528万元）的购房者，可以在内地或岛上的几个小镇，买到一套经过修缮的小别墅，也可以购买大一点的现代住宅。预算稍高一点，在125万美元（约合人民币777万元）左右的话，就可买到一小片土地，或许还能找到海景房。市场顶级购房者的预算大概为250万美元（约合人民币1553元），可以买到小型住宅外加大片土地或壮丽的崖顶景观。辛普森说，即便如此，高尔半岛太小了，即使是价位不贵的内陆房产，距离海岸也不过几分钟的车程。
The recession that started in 2008 halted the rise in values, but agents said prices had fallen very little, if at all, on the Gower Peninsula.
2008年的经济衰退，阻碍了房地产升值，但经纪人表示，高尔半岛的房价降幅很小，可以说是微乎其微。
“Parts of Wales are still a way back from the peak, maybe  10 percent,”  said Daniel Rees of Savills’ office in Cardiff, “but coastal properties with best views are very close to before.”
“威尔士部分地区的房价依然远远没有达到高峰，现在的水平可能比峰值低10%，”第一太平戴维斯(Savills)驻卡迪夫(Cardiff)办公室的丹尼尔·里斯(Daniel Rees)说，“但是在海景最好的海滩，房产价格跟以前很接近。”
Even so, he said,  “It is realistically still a buyer’s market.”  
即便如此，他表示，“现在实际上仍然是买方市场。”
Agents said the Gower was competing for buyers with Pembrokeshire to the west and the northern coasts of Cornwall and Devon to the south. “Your money goes a little further in Wales than in the southwest” of England, Mr. Rees said.
经纪人指出，高尔半岛正在和西部的彭布罗克郡(Pembrokeshire)、康沃尔北岸和南部的德文郡争夺购房者。“你能在威尔士买到比英格兰西南部更好的房产。”里斯表示。
WHO BUYS IN SOUTH WALES
谁在南威尔士(South Wales)买房
Mr. Simpson said he had seen a shift toward second-home sales in the past 10 or 15 years from primary residences. In a few villages, he said, the percentage of secondary residences is now approaching 50 percent.
辛普森表示，在过去10到15年里，度假屋买家的人数相对于首次购房者在增多。他指出，在一些村庄，度假屋买家的人数现在已接近50%。
A large proportion of those buyers are coming from London, the English Midlands or Bristol, the nearest large English city to South Wales. Within Wales, residents of Cardiff and even Swansea are looking to the Gower Peninsula for an easy weekend escape, Mr. Simpson said. Generally, he said, most buyers are paying in cash, even with mortgage rates near historic lows, at least for now.
这些购房者当中，有很大一部分来自伦敦、英格兰中部地区或离南威尔士最近的英格兰城市——布里斯托。辛普森表示，在威尔士境内，卡迪夫乃至斯旺西的居民正在关注高尔半岛的周末度假地。他指出，总体上看，即使按揭贷款的利率已接近历史最低水平，多数买家依然选择了现金支付，至少目前是如此。
Mr. Garnet-Jones said that he has had a few buyers from Australia, New Zealand and the United States, and that about 60 percent of his clients came from out of the immediate area.
加内特-琼斯说，他已接触了一些来自澳大利亚、新西兰和美国的购房者。在他的客户当中，约有60%的购房者不是来自周边地区的。