ERBIL, Iraq — When Islamic militants rampaged through the Iraqi city of Mosul last week, robbing banks of hundreds of millions of dollars, opening the gates of prisons and burning army vehicles, some residents greeted them as if they were liberators and threw rocks at retreating Iraqi soldiers.
伊拉克埃尔比勒——上周，伊斯兰激进分子在伊拉克城市摩苏尔胡作非为，抢走银行的数亿美元，打开监狱大门，烧毁军车。一些民众却表示迎接，仿佛这群人是救星，还朝撤退的伊拉克政府军士兵扔石头。
It took only two days, though, for the fighters of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria to issue edicts laying out the harsh terms of Islamic law under which they would govern, and singling out some police officers and government workers for summary execution.
然而，仅仅过了两天，伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，缩写ISIS）的武装分子就颁布了法令，详细列出了将作为其统治依据的伊斯兰教法的严苛条款，还挑出了一些将被即刻处死的警察和政府工作人员。
With just a few thousand fighters, the group’s lightning sweep into Mosul and farther south appeared to catch many Iraqi and American officials by surprise. But the gains were actually the realization of a yearslong strategy of state-building that the group itself promoted publicly.
尽管只有几千名武装分子，该组织却以闪电般的速度横扫摩苏尔，并进一步往南进发。这似乎让伊拉克和美国的许多官员措手不及。然而，他们的收获实际上是实现了经其公开宣扬的一项历时多年的建国策略。
“What we see in Iraq today is in many ways a culmination of what the I.S.I. has been trying to accomplish since its founding in 2006,” said Brian Fishman, a counterterrorism researcher at the New America Foundation, referring to the Islamic State in Iraq, the predecessor of ISIS.
“在很多方面，我们今天在伊拉克看到的，是ISI自2006年成立以来一直尝试取得的成果，”在新美国基金会(New America Foundation)研究反恐的布莱恩·菲什曼(Brian Fishman)说。他口中的ISI指的是ISIS的前身伊拉克伊斯兰国(Islamic State in Iraq)。
Now that President Obama is weighing airstrikes and other military aid to block the militants’ advance in Iraq, an examination of its history through its own documents indicates that the group has been far more ambitious and effective than United States officials judged as they were winding down the American involvement in the war.
奥巴马总统正在考虑用空袭等军事援助手段来阻止这些激进分子在伊拉克推进。然而，通过ISIS的文件对其历史进行的研究表明，它远比在美国逐步撤出伊拉克时官方对其所做的判断要更具野心，也更为有效。
The Sunni extremist group, while renowned for the mayhem it has inflicted, has set clear goals for carving out and governing a caliphate, an Islamic religious state, that spans Sunni-dominated sections of Iraq and Syria. It has published voluminously, even issuing annual reports, to document its progress in achieving its goals.
尽管因引发混乱而臭名远扬，但这个逊尼派极端组织却制定了清晰的目标，也就是建立并统治一个哈里发政权，一个跨越伊拉克和叙利亚逊尼派占主导地位的地区的伊斯兰教国家。它发布了大量文档，甚至会发表年度报告，记录在实现目标的过程中取得的进展。
Under the leadership of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who spent time in an American detention facility, the group has shown itself to be unrelentingly violent and purist in pursuing its religious objectives, but coldly pragmatic in forming alliances and gaining and ceding territory. In discussing its strategy, Mr. Fishman has described the group as “a governmental amoeba, constantly shifting its zone of control across Iraq’s western expanses” as its forces redeploy.
ISIS的领导人阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)曾在美军的一处关押所待过一段时间。在他的领导下，该组织表现出了毫不留情的暴力倾向，在追求宗教目标方面力求纯粹，但在结成联盟、获取和割让土地方面却又秉持冷酷的实用主义做派。在论及ISIS的策略时，菲什曼称，它调配力量时是“一只政治变形虫，总是在伊拉克西部的广阔地区变换控制范围”。
In 2007 the group published a pamphlet laying out its vision for Iraq. It cited trends in globalization as well as the Quran in challenging modern notions of statehood as having absolute control over territory. Mr. Fishman referred to the document as the “Federalist Papers” for what is now ISIS.
2007年，该组织发行了一本小册子，详述了对伊拉克的憧憬。文中援引了全球化过程中的趋势和可兰经，以挑战独立国家的当代概念，即对领土的绝对控制。菲什曼称，该文件是现在的ISIS的“联邦党人文集”(Federalist Papers)。
Under this vision, religion is paramount over administering services. Referring to citizens under its control, the pamphlet states, “improving their conditions is less important than the condition of their religion.” And one of the most important duties of the group, according to the pamphlet, is something that it has done consistently: free Sunnis from prison.
根据这一愿景，宗教凌驾于行政机构之上。提到治下的民众时，这本小册子写道，“改善他们的环境的重要性，不及他们的宗教环境本身”。文中还表示，该组织最重要的职责之一是把逊尼派从监狱里解救出来。而这，正是它一贯在做的事情。
“When you go back and read it, it’s all there,” Mr. Fishman said. “They are finally getting their act together.”
“当你回头读这本小册子时，都写着呢，”菲什曼说。“他们终于可以做到了。”
More recent annual reports, including one that was released at the end of March and ran more than 400 pages, list in granular detail the group’s successes, through suicide attacks, car bombs and assassinations, on the battlefield.
距今更近的几份年度报告，包括3月底发布的那份长达400多页的报告，非常详细地列举了该组织通过自杀式袭击、汽车炸弹和刺杀等方式取得的战场成就。
The group’s recent annual report, wrote Alex Bilger, an analyst at the Institute for the Study of War, makes clear that, “the ISIS military command in Iraq has exercised command and control over a national theater since at least early 2012,” and that the group is “functioning as a military rather than as a terrorist network.”
战争研究中心(Institute for the Study of War)的分析师亚历克斯·比尔格(Alex Bilger)写道，该组织前不久发布的年报表明，“至少从2012年初开始，ISIS在伊拉克的军事力量就已经在全国舞台上进行指挥和控制了”，而且它“目前的运作像是一支军队，而非一个恐怖主义网络”。
Though the group got its start battling the Americans in Iraq, its success after the occupation ended was largely missed — or played down — by American officials. In the middle of 2012, as the group strengthened and United Nations data showed civilian casualties in Iraq on the rise, Antony J. Blinken, the national security adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., wrote that violence in Iraq was “at historic lows.”
尽管该组织以与驻伊美军对抗起家，但它在美国结束占领后取得的成功，大部分都被美国官员忽略或淡化了。2012年年中，该组织实力增强，而且联合国的数据表明，伊拉克的平民伤亡人数在上升。此时，副总统小约瑟夫·R·拜登(Joseph R. Biden Jr.)的国家安全顾问安东尼·J·布林肯(Antony J. Blinken)却写道，伊拉克的暴力活动“处于历史低位”。
That is partly because its prospects initially appeared limited at the end of the American occupation. During the sectarian war that began in 2006, Sunni jihadists antagonized the public with their brutality and attempts to impose Islamic law, and suffered defeats at the hands of tribal fighters who joined the American counterinsurgency campaign, forcing them to retreat from western Iraq to areas around Mosul.
部分原因在于，美军刚结束对伊拉克的占领时，该组织起初看来前景黯淡。在2006年开启的宗派战争中，逊尼派圣战分子的残暴及其打算实施伊斯兰教法的企图激起了公众的敌意。而且，他们败在了与美军联手平叛的部族武装的手里，促使其撤出了伊拉克西部摩苏尔附近的区域。
But with the outbreak of civil war across the border in Syria three years ago, the group saw new opportunities for growth. The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria “invaded Syria from Mosul long before it invaded Mosul from Syria,” Mr. Fishman said.
然而，随着紧邻伊拉克边境的叙利亚三年前爆发内战，ISIS看见了新的发展机遇。菲什曼说，ISIS“早在从叙利亚入侵摩苏尔许久以前，就已经从摩苏尔侵入了叙利亚”。
The group gained strength in Syria through a two-pronged approach of launching strategic attacks to seize resources like arms caches, oil wells and granaries, while avoiding protracted battles with government forces that ground down Syria’s other rebels. In Iraq, government resistance crumbled in many areas it seized.
该组织在叙利亚双管齐下，从而壮大了自身的力量：一是发动战略袭击，以夺取武器装备、油井和粮仓等资源；二是避免与拖垮了叙利亚其他反对派武装的政府军进行缠斗。在许多被ISIS占领的伊拉克区域，政府的抵抗都不堪一击。
Now that the spotlight has shifted to Iraq, the decision by the Obama administration not to arm moderate Syrian rebels at the outset is coming under scrutiny by critics who say the hands-off policy allowed the extremists to flourish.
现在，众人的关注点已经转移到了伊拉克，而奥巴马政府最初做出的不武装叙利亚温和反对派的决定正受到批评者的质疑。他们认为，不干涉政策让极端分子得以兵强马壮。
Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who argued in favor of arming Syrian rebels, said last week at an event in New York hosted by the Council on Foreign Relations, “this is not just a Syrian problem anymore. I never thought it was just a Syrian problem. I thought it was a regional problem. I could not have predicted, however, the extent to which ISIS could be effective in seizing cities in Iraq and trying to erase boundaries to create an Islamic state.”
上周，曾支持武装叙利亚反对派的美国前国务卿希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)在对外关系委员会(Council on Foreign Relations)于纽约举办的一场活动中表示，“这已经不再仅仅是叙利亚的问题了。我从不认为，这只是叙利亚的问题。我一直认为，这是一个区域性的问题。然而，我无法预测，ISIS能在伊拉克有效地夺取这么多座城市，并且在设法消除边界来创立伊斯兰国。”
An American counterterrorism official said on Friday that “the group appears to be benefiting from a regional strategy that looks at Syria and Iraq as one interchangeable battlefield, allowing it to shift resources and manpower in pursuit of military objectives.”
一名美国反恐官员在上周五表示，“ISIS似乎正从区域战略中获益。该战略把叙利亚和伊拉克视为一个可互换的战场，这让它在追求军事目标时，能在战场上调动资源和人力。”
The group’s rise is directly connected to the American legacy in Iraq. The American prisons were fertile recruiting grounds for jihadist leaders, and virtual universities, where leaders would indoctrinate their recruits with hard-line ideologies. The group’s leader, Mr. Baghdadi, who is believed to have earned a doctorate in Islamic studies from a university in Baghdad, relocated to Syria, according to the American government, which has offered a $10 million reward for information leading to his capture.
ISIS的崛起和美国在伊拉克的政治遗产有直接关联。美军监狱是圣战头目招募手下的沃土，相当于给新人灌输强硬思想的大学。据信，ISIS的头目巴格达迪获得了巴格达一所大学颁发的伊斯兰研究博士学位。根据美国政府的消息，他已转移到叙利亚。美国悬赏了1000万美元（约合6200万元人民币）来寻找捉拿他的线索。
The group was formally rejected from Al Qaeda earlier this year after that organization’s leader, Ayman al-Zawahri, ordered it to withdraw to Iraq and leave operations in Syria to the local Qaeda affiliate, the Nusra Front. The split led to a bitter rivalry between the two groups, with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria competing with Al Qaeda for resources and standing in the wider international jihadist community.
今年早些时候，基地组织(Al Qaeda)头目艾曼·扎瓦希里(Ayman al-Zawahiri)命令ISIS撤回伊拉克，把在叙利亚的任务交给本地的基地组织分支努斯拉阵线(Nusra Front)，ISIS由此受到了基地组织的正式抵制。随着ISIS和基地组织在更大的国际圣战组织圈子内争夺资源和地位，二者的分裂导致它们产生了激烈的对抗。
The group has calibrated different strategies for Syria and Iraq. In Syria, it has mainly focused on seizing territory that has already fallen out of government hands, but had been poorly controlled by other rebel groups. In Iraq, though, it has exploited widespread disenchantment among the country’s Sunnis with the government of Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, to align with other Sunni militant groups, such as one organization that is led by former officers of Saddam Hussein’s Baath Party.
针对叙利亚和伊拉克，ISIS制定了不同的战略。在叙利亚，它侧重于占领已经脱离政府掌控、但其他反对派组织却控制乏力的地盘。在伊拉克，它则利用了该国逊尼派对以总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)为首的政府普遍失望的心理，与逊尼派的其他激进团体结盟，比如一个以萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)生前领导的复兴社会党(Saddam Hussein)原军官为首的组织。