BAGHDAD — Wielding the threat of sectarian slaughter, Sunni Islamist militants claimed on Sunday that they had massacred hundreds of captive Shiite members of Iraq’s security forces, posting grisly pictures of a mass execution in Tikrit as evidence and warning of more killing to come.
巴格达——周日，威胁进行宗派屠杀的逊尼派伊斯兰主义激进分子声称，他们已经屠戮了成百上千名从伊拉克安全部队中俘虏的什叶派教徒，并把他们在提克里特实施大规模处决的可怖照片贴到了网上，以此作为证据，以及他们要屠杀更多人的警示。
Even as anecdotal reports of extrajudicial killings around the country seemed to bear out the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria’s intent to kill Shiites wherever they could, Iraqi officials and some human rights groups cautioned that the militants’ claim to have killed 1,700 soldiers in Tikrit could not be immediately verified.
伊拉克各地冒出了不少执行法外处决的传闻，似乎证实了伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）打算把自己所到之处的什叶派教徒都赶尽杀绝。尽管如此，伊拉克官方和一些人权组织仍然谨慎地指出，激进分子宣称的已在提克里特杀死1700名军人的说法无法立即得到证实。
But with their claim, the Sunni militants were reveling in an atrocity that if confirmed would be the worst yet in the conflicts that roil the region, outstripping even the poison gas attack near Damascus last year.
然而，发表这则声明的逊尼派激进分子对自己的暴行得意洋洋。如果此事得到证实，将会是肆虐本地区的冲突中最为严重的一起暴行，甚至超越了去年在大马士革附近发生的毒气袭击事件。
In an atmosphere where there were already fears that the militants’ sudden advance near the capital would prompt Shiite reprisal attacks against Sunni Arab civilians, the claims by ISIS were potentially explosive. And that is exactly the militant group’s stated intent: to stoke a return to all-out sectarian warfare that would bolster its attempts to carve out a Sunni Islamist caliphate that crosses borders through the region.
外界本已担忧，激进分子突然逼近伊拉克的首都，将挑动什叶派对逊尼派阿拉伯平民发动报复性袭击。在这种氛围下，ISIS的声明可能会让局势一触即发。这恰恰符合该激进团体所述的意图：促使伊拉克重返全面的宗派战争。这样的战争将为ISIS的意图提供支撑，那就是开创一个横跨该区域的逊尼派伊斯兰主义哈里发国。
The sectarian element of the killings may also put more pressure on the Obama administration to aid Iraq militarily. In fact, the militants seemed to be counting on it. A pronouncement on Sunday by the group’s leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, had a clear message for the United States: “Soon we will face you, and we are waiting for this day.”
此次屠杀的宗派特征还可能加大奥巴马政府向伊拉克提供军事援助的压力。实际上，激进分子似乎对这一点满怀期待。ISIS的头目阿布·巴克尔·巴格达迪(Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi)在周日发表的声明中给美国传递了一条清晰的讯息：“我们不久就会和你们面对面，我们正在等待这一天的到来。”
The group’s announcement was made in a series of gruesome photographs uploaded to an ISIS Twitter feed and on websites late on Saturday night. Some showed insurgents, many wearing black masks, lining up at the edges of what looked like shallow mass graves and apparently firing their weapons into young men who had their hands bound behind their backs and were packed closely together in large groups.
上周六深夜，ISIS通过自己的Twitter账户发帖，上传了一系列令人毛骨悚然的照片，以此宣告世人。部分照片显示，叛乱分子列队站在看似大量浅坟坑的地方旁边，看起来在用枪扫射大群紧紧挤作一团的年轻男子。这些男性的手被绑在背后，而许多叛乱分子戴着黑色的面罩。
The photographs showed what appeared to be seven massacre sites, although several of them may have been different views of the same sites. In any one of the pictures, no more than about 60 victims could be seen and sometimes as few as 20 at each of the sites, although it was not clear if the photographs showed the entire graves.
图片显示的屠杀场地似乎有七处，不过，其中的几幅可能是从不同角度拍摄的同一场地。任何一幅照片中所能看到的遇害者均不超过60人左右，单处场地的遇害者有时少至20人。不过，目前还不清楚，照片是否展示了坟坑的全貌。
The militants’ captions seemed tailor-made to ignite anger and fear among Shiites. “The filthy Shiites are killed in the hundreds,” one read. “The liquidation of the Shiites who ran away from their military bases,” read another, and, “This is the destiny of Maliki’s Shiites,” referring to Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki.
激进分子的图片说明似乎是有意为之，目的是激起什叶派的怒火和恐惧。一条说明写道，“我们正在屠杀数以百计的肮脏的什叶派分子。”另一条则写道，“清洗从军事基地逃跑的什叶派分子。这就是拥护马利基的什叶派的下场。”文字中的马利基指的是伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)。
Many of the captions mocked the victims. In one photograph, showing a group of young men walking toward an apparent execution site, where armed masked men awaited, the caption read, “Look at them walking to death on their own feet.”
许多图片说明嘲讽了遇害者。有一幅照片显示，一队年轻男子走向一片像是处决场的地方，而等待他们的是头戴面罩的持械男子。这幅照片的说明写道，“看看吧，他们在自己走向死亡。”
So far, Iraq’s majority Shiites were not rising to the bait. Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, their supreme religious leader, issued a statement on Saturday calling for all groups to “exert the highest possible level of self-restraint during this tumultuous period.” And there was little immediate public reaction to the ISIS claims in Baghdad or other southern Iraqi cities.
迄今为止，在伊拉克人口中占多数的什叶派还没有落入ISIS的圈套。他们的最高宗教领袖大阿亚图拉阿里·西斯塔尼(Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani)于上周六发表了一则声明，呼吁所有团体“在这段动荡的时期，尽最大的可能保持克制”。巴格达和伊拉克南部其他城市的民众基本上没有马上对ISIS的声明作出回应。
A senior Iraqi government official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to make press statements, said news of the executions was slow to circulate because Twitter and other social media sites had been blocked for days. “I don’t doubt they are real, but 1,700 is a big number,” he said. “We are trying to control the reaction.”
伊拉克政府的一名高官表示，有关处决的新闻传播得很慢，因为Twitter等社交媒体网站已被封锁了好几天。由于无权对媒体发表声明，他要求不具名。“我不怀疑它们的真实性，但1700人是个大数目，”他说。“我们正在努力控制由此引发的反应。”
Acutely aware of the potential for retaliatory violence, some government officials who had heard about the ISIS claims took pains to play them down, confirming only that some executions had taken place in Tikrit, but not on a large scale.
因为深刻意识到此事可能会引发复仇性的暴力活动，听闻ISIS说法的伊拉克政府官员在煞费苦心地予以淡化，只证实提克里特发生了一些处决事件，但规模不大。
One Iraqi security official claimed that no more than 11 bodies of executed soldiers were recovered from the Tigris River downstream from the execution site, a group of six and a group of five, although he confirmed that 800 soldiers had been taken prisoner in the area. He also reported finding 17 bodies washed up against a dam near Samarra, another city the militants are fighting for. But, he said, “There is no such superstitious number as 1,700 people executed.”
一名伊拉克安全官员称，从处决地下游的底格里斯河里打捞到了11名士兵的尸体，一次是五具在一起，另一次是六具，并无更多。不过他证实，该地区有800名士兵被俘。他还通报，在激进分子试图占领的另一座城市萨马拉，附近的一处大坝发现了17具被冲至此地的尸体。但他表示，“处决人数绝不到1700这种神话数字。”
An official statement posted on the Ministry of Defense’s website denied the executions had taken place at all.
伊拉克国防部网站上发布的官方声明则称，根本没有发生处决事件。
Still, other officials and human rights representatives, while cautioning that they could not confirm the full 1,700 number being claimed, said that ISIS had shown no compunctions against hunting Shiites. And they reiterated that such horrific claims would go to further the group’s intent to sow chaos.
然而，尽管其他一些官员和人权代表谨慎地指出，他们无法证实ISIS所说的1700这个总人数，但也表示，该组织未对捕杀什叶派表现出丝毫悔意。而且他们重申，这种令人毛骨悚然的说法将助长该组织制造混乱的意图。
“We’re trying to verify the pics and I am not convinced they are authentic,” said Erin Evers, the Human Rights Watch researcher in Iraq. “As far as ISIS claiming it has killed 1,700 people and publishing horrific photos to support that claim, it is unfortunately in keeping with their pattern of commission of atrocities, and obviously intended to further fuel sectarian war.”
“我们正在努力核实这些照片。我本人并不确信它们是真的，”人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)驻伊拉克的研究员埃林·埃弗斯(Erin Evers)说。“至于ISIS声称自己杀了1700人，还公布了可怖的照片支持这种说法，不幸的是，这符合他们一贯的作恶方式，而且显然是为了加剧宗派战争。”
A New York Times employee in Tikrit said local residents saw hundreds of Iraqi military personnel captured when they tried to flee Camp Speicher, a former American military base and airfield now used as an air force training center on the edge of Tikrit. It is still in government hands.
《纽约时报》在提克里特的一名雇员称，当地居民看到数百名政府方军事人员在试图逃离斯派克营(Camp Speicher)时被捕。位于提克里特郊区的斯派克营曾是美国的军事基地和飞机场，现在被用作空军训练中心。该处设施依然处在政府的控制下。
Most of those captured were air force cadets, the employee said. Those who were Sunnis were given civilian clothes and sent home; the Shiites were marched and trucked off to the grounds of Saddam Hussein’s old palace in Tikrit, where they reportedly were executed. He added that the bodies had been dumped in the Tigris River, which runs by the palace compound.
这名雇员称，被俘的大部分是空军学员。他们中的逊尼派分到了平民的衣服，被赶回了家；什叶派则被卡车押送到萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)位于提克里特的旧宫殿的院子里。据传，他们在那里遭到处决。他还说，学员的尸体被扔进了流经宫殿的底格里斯河。
The ISIS photographs appeared to have been taken at that location, the employee said. However, he said he had not spoken to any witnesses who claimed to have seen the executions or the victims’ bodies.
这名雇员称，ISIS公布的照片似乎是在那里拍摄的。但他表示，尚未遇到任何声称亲眼目睹过处决或遇难者遗体的人。
Ryan C. Crocker, a former ambassador to Iraq and a critic of America’s 2011 withdrawal from that nation after the two countries failed to sign a mutual security pact, said the atrocity claims, proven or not, made it more urgent than ever for Washington to become involved.
前驻伊拉克大使瑞安·C·克罗克(Ryan C. Crocker)表示，不管是否会得到证实，此番残暴声明让华盛顿的介入变得比以往任何时候都更紧迫。美伊两国未能签署共同安全条约后，美国于2011年从伊拉克撤军。此事遭到了皮罗克的批评。
“What this administration has to do is get John Kerry on a plane right now, like we did when I was there, and sit down with Shia, Sunni and Kurdish leaders and help them get to a position of declared national unity. Iraqis have to stand together now,” Mr. Crocker said. Regarding the massacres, he said, “Whatever it is, however many people, it’s clearly an effort to ignite an Iraqi civil war.”
“这届政府需要做的是，马上让约翰·克里(John Kerry)坐飞机过来，就像我当年在那里时我们做的那样，和什叶派、逊尼派以及库尔德领导人一起坐下来，帮他们统一立场，共同宣布国家统一，”克罗克说。至于大屠杀，他表示，“不管真相如何，涉及多少人，这显然都是为了挑起伊拉克内战。”