BAGHDAD — The Iraqi government said Sunday that Sunni militants had taken control of a major Iraqi post on the Syrian border, strengthening their ability to move men and supplies into Iraq’s heartland.
巴格达——伊拉克政府周日表示，逊尼派武装分子已经控制了位于叙伊边境的一座重要伊拉克岗哨，加强了他们向伊拉克中心地带输送人员和补给的能力。
As the government tried to cast the setback in a positive light, saying troops had made a “tactical” decision to withdraw, Secretary of State John Kerry appeared to increase the pressure on Iraq’s leadership by signaling that the United States was open to the selection of a new prime minister who could bridge the deep sectarian divides in the country.
伊拉克政府希望以一种正面的语气来表达这次的挫折，称军方做出了撤退的“战略决策”。而美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)似乎正在向伊拉克领导层施加压力，表示美国愿意让伊拉克选择一名能够弥合国内深刻宗派隔阂的新总理。
“The United States would like to see the Iraqi people find leadership that is prepared to represent all of the people of Iraq,” Mr. Kerry said Sunday in Cairo, at the start of a Middle East trip to rally Arab support on the Iraq crisis.
“美国希望看到，伊拉克人能找到一个乐于代表伊拉克所有民众的领导层，”克里周日在开罗表示。他正准备开始一次中东之旅，意图争取阿拉伯世界对伊拉克危机的支持。
The formal American position, which Mr. Kerry underscored at a news conference with Egypt’s foreign minister, is that the United States is not in the business of picking Iraq’s leaders. But without mentioning Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki by name, Mr. Kerry noted that the Kurds, the Sunnis and some Shiites had registered unhappiness with Iraq’s leadership, as has Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, the influential Shiite spiritual leader who has spoken out about the need to avoid the mistakes of the past.
克里在与埃及外长共同举行的一次新闻发布会上强调，美国的官方立场是：美国不会干涉伊拉克领导人的选任。虽然克里没有提到伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)的姓名，但是他指出，库尔德人、逊尼派和一些什叶派都对伊拉克领导层表达了不满。有威望的什叶派精神领袖阿亚图拉阿里·西斯塔尼(Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani)就曾明确表示，伊拉克需要避免过去犯的错。
On Sunday, Gen. Qassim Atta, a top military spokesman, acknowledged in a briefing that Iraqi Army troops had left the Qaim border post near the Syrian border as well as the towns of Rawaa and Ana, but that the units would be fighting the militants from the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, elsewhere.
周日，伊拉克军方发言人卡西姆·阿塔上将(Gen. Qassim Atta)在一次通报中透露，伊拉克政府军已经离开叙利亚边境附近的加伊姆(Qaim)边防站，以及拉瓦(Rawaa)和阿纳(Ana)，但是军队将在其他地方对抗伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State in Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的武装分子。
“As a tactical procedure,” General Atta said, “the security forces in Rawaa, Ana and Qaim have withdrawn from these areas to reinforce other troops in other areas.”
“作为一种战术选择，”阿塔上将说，“拉瓦、阿纳和加伊姆的安全部队已经从这些地区撤离，以加强其他地区的兵力。”
There were also unconfirmed reports on Sunday evening that government forces had fled Al Waleed, the last post at the Syrian border that had remained in the army’s hands. Frightened police officers, reached by telephone, said that the army had already left and that the police scattered when the militants arrived in trucks. Some police officers crossed the border into Syria, if they had family there, and others stayed on the Iraqi side, a police source said.
周日夜间，有未经证实的报道称，政府军已经逃离艾瓦利德(Al Waleed)，叙利亚边境最后一个在军方控制下的哨卡。惊慌失措的警察在接到采访电话时说，军队已经撤离；当武装分子乘卡车来到这里时，警察四散逃离。一名警方消息人士表示，那些在叙利亚有亲人的警察跨越边境进入了叙利亚，其他警察则留在伊拉克。
The militants seem intent on consolidating their hold on the large Sunni provinces to the west and north as the Iraqi Army focuses on securing Baghdad, the capital.
就在伊拉克军队重点保护首都巴格达之时，武装分子似乎决心加强他们对西部及北部，以逊尼派为主的省份的控制。
The militants already have considerable strength in Anbar Province, mainly in remote villages and towns, though they have also seized Falluja. Now, with the taking of the Qaim border post and nearby towns, they will be able to move on the road that leads to the city of Haditha, where there is a major dam. On Sunday, the government was reinforcing its troops there.
武装分子在安巴尔省——主要是偏远村庄和城镇——已经拥有相当强大的力量，此外他们也控制了费卢杰。如今，武装分子已经占据了加伊姆的岗哨和附近的城镇，接下来他们可以一路前行，向哈迪赛挺进，哈迪赛有一座大坝。周日，政府加强在该地区的兵力部署。
General Atta did not say whether the army had fought in the small western town of Rutba, but local officials there said ISIS militants arrived late Saturday, burned the police station and clashed briefly with the police before taking control of the town.
阿塔上将没有透露政府军是否曾在西部小镇鲁特拜作战，但当地官员表示，ISIS武装分子周六晚些时候到达了该镇，并烧毁了警局，在取得对该镇的控制之前，与警方发生了短暂冲突。
Ratif al-Ubaid, a member of the Rutba local council, said about 50 vehicles filled with militants and their weapons had arrived in the town and engaged in sporadic clashes with the police. He added, “They left a group to secure the town and then headed toward the border.”
鲁特拜地方官员拉提夫·奥贝德(Ratif al-Ubaid)表示，大约50辆载有武装分子及武器的车辆抵达该镇，他们与警方发生了零星交火。他还表示，“他们留下了一些人把守这里，其他人则朝着边境前进。”
During the Qaim battle, it appeared that 70 volunteers who had left Baghdad to join the fighting on the side of the Iraqi Army were killed in an ambush. They were traveling in food freezer trucks as camouflage, but it seemed the militants knew they were on their way, a police officer said on the condition of anonymity, because he was not authorized to speak to reporters. The militants have allowed him to remain in his job, he said.
在加伊姆的战斗中，似乎有70名志愿参战者遭遇伏击中丧生，他们离开巴格达，打算与伊拉克政府军并肩作战。一名警察表示，他们乘坐食品冷冻车出行，以此作为伪装，但武装分子似乎知道他们已经上路。由于没有接受记者采访的权限，这名警察要求匿名。他表示，武装分子允许他继续工作。
It was unclear how many Iraqi Army soldiers had been killed in the fight.
目前尚不清楚，有多少伊拉克政府军士兵在战斗中丧生。
In Diyala Province, the struggle for power between the ISIS militants and local Sunni militants, some of them former military officers under Saddam Hussein, continued Sunday. ISIS fighters killed three brothers of one of the leaders of the Islamic Army and destroyed the houses of fighters in that group as well as of the Men of Naqshbandia, former Saddam loyalists.
周日，在迪亚拉省，ISIS武装分子与当地逊尼派武装分子之间的权力斗争继续进行。当地逊尼派武装分子中有一些人曾在萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)执政时期担任军官。ISIS武装分子杀害了一名伊斯兰军(Islamic Army)领导人物的三个兄弟，并摧毁了伊斯兰军及纳克什班迪教团军(Men of Naqshbandia)作战人员的房屋，后者的成员都是萨达姆政权的拥护者。