BAGHDAD — Sunni militants extended their control over parts of northern and western Iraq on Wednesday as Iraqi government forces crumbled in disarray. The militants overran the city of Tikrit, seized facilities in the strategic oil refining town of Baiji, and threatened an important Shiite shrine in Samarra as they moved south toward Baghdad.
巴格达——周三，就在伊拉克政府军溃败之际，逊尼派(Sunni)武装分子将其控制范围扩展至伊拉克北部及西部的部分地区。武装分子占据了提克里特，夺取了炼油重镇拜伊吉的设施，他们一路向南朝着巴格达挺进，还对萨马拉的一个重要的什叶派(Shiite)圣陵构成了威胁。
The remarkably rapid advance of the Sunni militants, who on Tuesday seized the northern city of Mosul as Iraqi forces fled or surrendered, reflects the spillover of the Sunni insurgency in Syria and the inability of Iraq’s Shiite-led government to pacify the country after American forces departed in 2011 following eight years of war and occupation. By late Wednesday, witnesses in Samarra, 70 miles north of Baghdad, were reporting that the militants, many of them aligned with the radical Islamic State of Iraq and Syria or ISIS, were on the outskirts of the city. They said the militants demanded that forces loyal to the government leave the city or a sacred Shiite shrine there would be destroyed. Samarra is known for the shrine, the al-Askari Mosque, which was severely damaged in a 2006 bombing during the height of the American-led occupation. That event touched off sectarian mayhem between the country’s Sunni Arab minority and its Shiite majority.
周二，逊尼派武装分子夺取了北部城市摩苏尔，而伊拉克军队要么逃跑，要么投降。他们的快速挺进反映出，叙利亚逊尼派反叛运动已经向外蔓延，而什叶派领导的伊拉克政府，在美军经过八年的战争和占领，于2011年撤军后，没有能力使该国实现和平。到周三晚间，萨马拉的目击者报告称，武装分子来到了该市的郊外，其中很多人与激进的伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）有牵连。萨马拉位于巴格达以北70英里（约113公里）处。目击者表示，武装分子要求忠于政府的军队撤离，否则他们就会摧毁当地的什叶派圣陵阿斯卡里清真寺(al-Askari Mosque)，萨马拉因为这座圣陵而闻名。这座清真寺在2006年的一次轰炸中受到严重破坏，当时正值美国为首的联军占领伊拉克期间。轰炸事件引发了人口占少数的逊尼派阿拉伯人与占多数的什叶派之间的宗派冲突。
Members of Shiite militias were on high alert in Baghdad, and many were reported headed north to Samarra, even though the central government declared a 10 p.m. curfew in the capital and surrounding towns. An influential Iraqi Shiite cleric, Moktada al-Sadr, called for the formation of a special force to defend religious sites in Iraq. The authorities in neighboring Iran, which is predominantly Shiite, canceled all visas and flights for pilgrims to Baghdad and intensified security on the Iran-Iraq border, Iran’s official Islamic Republic News Agency reported. Insurgents also were holding 80 Turkish citizens seized in Mosul over the last two days, including the Turkish consul general, other diplomats and at least three children, the Turkish government said. Thirty-one of the Turkish hostages were truck drivers who had been transporting fuel to a power plant in Mosul.
巴格达的什叶派武装组织成员处于高度戒备状态，据称，很多武装人员已经开始向北行进，前往萨马拉，尽管中央政府宣布首都及周围城镇在晚上10点之后实行宵禁。伊拉克颇具影响力的什叶派神职人员穆克塔达·萨德尔(Moktada al-Sadr)呼吁成立特种部队，保护伊拉克的宗教场所。在什叶派占绝大多数的邻国伊朗，官方通讯社伊斯兰共和国通讯社(Islamic Republic News Agency)报道称，该国政府取消了前往巴格达的朝圣者的签证和航班，并加强了两伊边境的安保工作。土耳其政府称，叛乱分子还扣留了过去两天在摩苏尔抓到的80名土耳其公民，其中包括土耳其驻摩苏尔总领事，以及其他外交官和至少三名儿童。其中31名土耳其人质是负责向摩苏尔一家电厂运送燃料的卡车司机。
Amid the collapse of the Iraqi army in Mosul, Tikrit and other northern cities, questions were raised about the possibility of a conspiracy in the military to deliberately surrender. Witnesses reported some remarkable scenes in Tikrit, where soldiers handed over their weapons and uniforms peacefully to militants who ordinarily would have been expected to kill government soldiers on the spot.
驻扎在摩苏尔、提克里特及其他北部城市的伊拉克军队溃败之际，人们开始怀疑这会不会是一个阴谋——军队故意投降。目击者讲述了提克里特发生的一些值得注意的场景，政府军士兵们和平地向武装分子交出了武器和制服。而武装分子通常会当场杀死政府士兵。
Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, a Shiite, suggested the possibility of disloyalty in the army when he exhorted Iraqi citizens on Tuesday to take up arms against the Sunni insurgents.
周二，什叶派的伊拉克总理努里·卡迈勒·马利基(Nuri Kamal al-Maliki)在呼吁伊拉克民众拿起武器对抗逊尼派叛乱分子时，暗示军队可能存在背叛行为。
Residents of Baiji, a city of 200,000 about 110 miles south of Mosul, awoke Wednesday to find that government checkpoints had been abandoned and that insurgents, arriving in a column of 60 vehicles, were taking control of parts of the city without firing a shot, the security officials said. Peter Bouckaert, the emergency services director for Human Rights Watch, said in a post on Twitter that the militants had seized the Baiji power station, which supplies electricity to Baghdad, Kirkuk and Salahuddin Province.
安全官员说，拜伊吉的居民周三一早醒来就发现，政府已舍弃自己的检查站，叛乱分子乘坐60辆车组成的车队抵达此地，一枪未开就占领了市内部分地区。拜伊吉有20万人口，位于摩苏尔以南110英里处。人权观察组织(Human Rights Watch)紧急服务主管彼得·布凯特(Peter Bouckaert)在Twitter上写道，武装分子已经占领了拜伊吉的电站，该电站负责给巴格达、基尔库克，以及萨拉赫丁省供电。
In Tikrit, the home town of Saddam Hussein, residents said the militants attacked in the afternoon from three directions: east, west and north. Residents said there were brief exchanges of gunfire, and then police officers and soldiers shed their uniforms, put on civilian clothing and fled through residential areas to avoid the militants, while others gave up their weapons and uniforms willingly. On Wednesday, the insurgents claimed to have taken control of the entire province of Nineveh, Agence France-Presse reported, and there were reports of militants executing government soldiers in the Kirkuk region. Atheel al-Nujaifi, the governor of the province, criticized the Iraqi army commanders in Mosul, saying they had misled the government about the situation in the city.
在萨达姆·侯赛因(Saddam Hussein)的家乡提克里特，当地居民说，武装分子于当日下午从东、西、北三个方向对该市发起了进攻。居民们说，经过短暂交火后，警察和士兵就脱下制服，换上便服，从居民区夺路而逃，以躲避武装分子，还有一些军警则自愿放下了武器，脱下了制服。法新社(Agence France-Presse)报道，叛乱分子在周三宣称，他们已控制整个尼尼微省，有报道称武装分子在基尔库克地区处决了政府军士兵。尼尼微省省长阿斯勒·努杰菲(Atheel al-Nujaifi)指责，驻守摩苏尔的伊拉克政府军将领误导了政府，导致他们误判了提克里特的局势。
Iraq’s foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, was quoted on Wednesday as saying his country’s Kurdish minority would “work together” with Baghdad’s forces to “flush out these foreign fighters.”
周三，有报道援引伊拉克外长霍希亚尔·兹巴里(Hoshyar Zebari)的话说，该国的少数民族库尔德族将与政府军“并肩作战，驱逐这些外国武装分子”。
At a meeting of Arab and European foreign ministers in Athens, Mr. Zebari, himself a Kurd, called the insurgents’ strike “a serious, mortal threat,” adding: “The response has to be soon. There has to be a quick response to what has happened.”
在阿拉伯国家与欧洲国家外长在雅典举行的一场会议上，身为库尔德人的兹巴里说叛乱分子的袭击“是一种严重的致命性威胁”。他还说：“我们的反应一定要快，必须迅速应对发生的情况。”
Iraqi Kurds are concentrated in the autonomous region of Kurdistan, where security is maintained by a disciplined and fiercely loyal fighting force, the pesh merga, that has not yet become involved in the latest clashes.
伊拉克库尔德人主要聚居在库尔德斯坦自治区，那里的治安由纪律严明、极为忠诚的库尔德“自由斗士”(pesh merga)负责维持。这支部队还没有介入最近的冲突。
In a further indication of the regional dimensions of the crisis, the government of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria, facing the same jihadist adversary in its civil war against a broader array of armed foes, expressed solidarity with the Iraqi authorities and armed forces, the official SANA news agency reported.
据官方的阿拉伯通讯社(SANA)报道，以总统巴沙尔·阿萨德(Bashar al-Assad)为首的叙利亚政府表示，要和伊拉克当局及武装部队并肩作战。叙利亚政府在内战中面临着名目繁多的武装对手，也在和伊拉克一样对抗着相同的圣战分子。叙利亚政府的立场进一步表明，这场危机受到地区局势的影响。
Word of the latest militant advance came as a United Nations agency reported that 500,000 people had fled Mosul — Iraq’s second-largest city, with a population of about 2 million — after the militants, spilling over the border from Syria, captured military bases, police stations, banks and provincial headquarters.
武装分子向前挺近的消息传来之际，一家联合国机构也发布报告，称已有50万人逃离了摩苏尔。摩苏尔约有200万人口，是伊拉克第二大城市。此前，来自叙利亚的武装分子越过边境，占领了伊拉克的军事基地、警察局、银行和省府总部。