BAGHDAD — Sunni extremists seized control of three towns in northern Iraq on Sunday after fierce battles with Kurdish security forces, sending thousands of people fleeing to the nearby mountains and threatening the country’s largest dam.
巴格达——周日，在与库尔德安全部队发生激烈交火后，逊尼派极端分子又夺取了伊拉克北部的三个城镇，导致大量民众逃往附近的山区，并已经威胁到该国最大的水坝。
In the darkness of Sunday morning, the Sunni fighters swept in to take one of the towns, Sinjar, and set about their method of conquest, which is as familiar as it is brutal: They destroyed a Shiite shrine, executed resisters, overran local security forces and hoisted the black flag of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, above government buildings.
在周日凌晨的黑暗中，逊尼派武装分子迅速占领了辛贾尔镇，开始实施他们的野蛮征服手段：他们摧毁了一座什叶派圣祠，处决了抵抗者，打垮了当地安全部队，让伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国（Islamic State of Iraq and Syria，简称ISIS）的黑色旗帜在政府大楼上空飘扬。
Hours later, as the militants demanded that the city’s residents swear allegiance to ISIS or be killed, the group’s social media campaign was underway, with photos posted online showing militants patrolling the city.
几个小时后，武装分子要求该镇的居民发誓效忠ISIS，否则就只有死路一条，与此同时，该组织发起了社交媒体上的宣传攻势，在网上发布了武装分子在该市巡逻的照片。
The United Nations representative in Baghdad, Nickolay Mladenov, issued a statement on Sunday, citing reports he had that as many as 200,000 civilians, mostly from the minority Yazidi community, had fled the fighting.
联合国驻巴格达代表尼克雷·姆拉德诺夫(Nickolay Mladenov)周日在一份声明中援引已有的报告说，多达20万名平民已经在冲突中逃走，他们主要来自属少数派的雅兹迪社区。
“A humanitarian tragedy is unfolding in Sinjar,” Mr. Mladenov said.
“辛贾尔正在发生人道悲剧，”姆拉德诺夫说。
In the face of stiff resistance from Shiite militias aligned with Iran that have stalled their march on Baghdad, the ISIS fighters who captured Mosul in June pushed north during the weekend. By Sunday afternoon, they were in control of two other towns after fierce battles with Kurdish security forces, known as the pesh merga, who have been thrust into combat to defend the border of their autonomous region in northern Iraq from encroachments by ISIS.
与伊朗结盟的什叶派民兵组织已经阻挡了ISIS武装分子进入巴格达的道路。面对什叶派民兵组织的激烈抵抗，6月份已经占领了摩苏尔的ISIS武装分子周末向北推进。到了周日下午，在与库尔德安全部队发生激烈交战后，他们控制了另外的两个镇。库尔德安全部队也称“敢死军”(pesh merga)，为了防止ISIS入侵伊拉克北部自治区的边境，他们不得不参加战斗。
In a statement, ISIS boasted of conquering “more important areas which were controlled by the pesh merga and the secular militias.” With the new territory, which the group described as “the border triangle of Iraq, Syria and Turkey,” ISIS strengthened its hold on territory that traverses the frontiers of Iraq and Syria, giving it an even greater ability to move fighters and weapons between the front lines of the civil wars in both countries.
ISIS在一份声明中炫耀说，该组织征服了“由敢死军和世俗武装控制的更多重要区域”。该组织称，新占领的区域是“伊拉克、叙利亚和土耳其的边境线组成的三角形区域”。凭借对该地区的占领，ISIS加强了对跨越伊拉克和叙利亚边境领土的控制，在两国内战前线之间调遣士兵和武器的能力也会增强。
According to security officials and residents in the area, the Kurdish forces were routed from Zumar, a town on the road from the Syrian border that also sits on oil fields, and then Sinjar. Sinjar, an isolated city in northwestern Iraq, has been home to a sizable community of Yazidis, Kurdish speakers who ascribe to a religion that combines elements of Islam and ancient Persian religions and who are considered apostates by Muslim extremists.
当地的安全官员和居民表示，库尔德武装部队先后在舒马镇和辛贾尔镇被击溃。舒马镇位于通往叙利亚边境的路上，拥有多座油田。辛贾尔是伊拉克西北部一个与世隔绝的城镇，居住着相当多的雅兹迪人。雅兹迪人讲库尔德语，信奉一种结合了伊斯兰教和古代波斯宗教元素的宗教。他们被穆斯林极端分子视作叛教者。
Later on Sunday, the militants captured Wana, a strategic town near the Tigris River — putting them within striking distance of the Mosul Dam, the country’s largest and an important supplier of electricity and water. The dam is on the Tigris River about 30 miles northwest of Mosul, Iraq’s second-largest city, which fell to ISIS on June 10.
周日晚些时候，这些武装分子占领了底格里斯河附近的战略要地瓦纳镇，从而使摩苏尔坝处于他们的打击范围内。摩苏尔坝是伊拉克最大的水坝，也是一处重要的水电供应设施。这座水坝位于摩苏尔西北30英里处的底格里斯河上。摩苏尔是伊拉克第二大城市，6月10日被ISIS占领。
Yazidi residents of Sinjar, who were reached by phone, were terrified. They told of kidnappings and executions of members of their sect. One resident, Sami Hassan, said he was at work at a hospital on Sunday when an injured ISIS fighter arrived and demanded to know the sect to which Mr. Hassan belonged.
记者通过电话联系到了辛贾尔的雅兹迪族居民。他们表示自己被吓坏了，并讲述了他们教派的教徒被绑架和处决的事件。其中的一名居民萨米·哈桑(Sami Hassan)说，他周日正在医院上班，一名受伤的ISIS武装分子突然冲了进来，问哈桑是哪个派别的。
Mr. Hassan said he had escaped from a window while being shot at.
哈桑说，就在那人朝他开枪时，自己夺窗而逃。 
Another local, Khudhur Rasho, said he had seen two Yazidi men executed and the members of 10 families, their hands bound behind their back, being led away by militants.
另一名当地人胡杜尔·拉绍(Khudhur Rasho)表示，他看到两名雅兹迪族男子被处死，10个家庭的成员双手反绑着被武装分子带走。
A State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said Sunday that ISIS posed “a dire threat to all Iraqis, the entire region and the international community” and that the United States would continue to seek ways to support the Iraqi security forces and the Kurdish pesh merga.
国务院女发言人珍·普萨基(Jen Psaki)在周日表示，ISIS对“所有伊拉克人、整个地区及国际社会构成了威胁”，美国将继续设法支持伊拉克安全部队和库尔德“敢死军”。
The seizing of the three towns in a triangle that stretches north and west from Mosul to the borders of Syria and Turkey allowed the extremists to expand their territory, but the capture of the Mosul Dam would be a bigger prize, and could give the militants the ability to unleash a deadly flood on large populations.
这三个城镇形成一个三角形区域，从摩苏尔向北、西延伸至叙利亚及土耳其的边境，夺取这些城镇后，极端分子可以扩展领地，但攻占摩苏尔水坝将会是一个更大的收获，而武装分子可以利用水坝制造一场导致大批民众丧生的洪水。
On Sunday afternoon, conflicting reports emerged about who was in control of the dam, with some local news media reporting that ISIS had captured it. But Kurdish officials and an official at the Ministry of Water Resources in Baghdad denied those reports.
周日下午，对于到底是谁控制了大坝，出现了相互矛盾的报道，一些当地新闻媒体报道称ISIS控制了大坝。但库尔德官员及伊拉克水利部(Ministry of Water Resources)的官员都对这些报道予以否认。
Keeping the dam, and other important infrastructure of the Iraqi state, out of militant hands has been a priority of the Iraqi government and the American military advisers who recently rushed back to Iraq.
防止大坝及伊拉克其他重要的基础设施落入武装分子手中，一直是伊拉克政府及美国军事顾问的首要任务，美国军事顾问最近匆忙返回伊拉克。
The battles over the weekend deepened the humanitarian crisis in the north, with thousands of residents fleeing the fighting to the Kurdish region, and some Yazidis seeking shelter in the crevices of the barren mountains. The Kurdish regional government is struggling to deal with tens of thousands of refugees who have sought safety there from across Iraq and Syria.
上周末发生的战斗加剧了北部地区的人道危机，数以千计的居民为躲避战争逃到了库尔德地区，一些雅兹迪人逃到荒山的岩缝中寻求庇护。库尔德地区政府正在努力安置数以万计从伊拉克及叙利亚赶来避险的难民。
The chaos that has unfolded in Iraq over the past two months has presented the Kurds with perhaps their greatest chance in generations to realize their long-held dream of independence. It has also presented them with acute challenges, which have crystallized over the past week with the upsurge in fighting and suggest that the road to statehood for the Kurds will be long and violent.
伊拉克过去两个月出现的混乱状态，为库尔德人长期以来的独立梦想提供了一个机会，或许是几代人以来最有希望的一次。这也给他们带来重大挑战，过去一周战斗的不断升级就体现了这种挑战，说明库尔德人的建国之路将是漫长和残酷的。
The gains over the weekend by ISIS heightened the problems faced by American officials in Washington as they weigh how to respond to the crisis in Iraq. But decisions about a possible broader American military role in Iraq have been largely put off as Iraq’s politicians struggle to form a new government after April’s national elections.
ISIS上周末的战绩突显了美国官员面临的问题，他们正在考虑如何应对伊拉克危机。但由于伊拉克政界在4月份的全国大选后迟迟未能组建新政府，美国扩大在伊拉克军事行动的决定，很大程度上已经被打消。