For George W. Bush, the summer already looks unbearable. The party he gave his life to will repudiate him by nominating a bombastic serial insulter who makes the famously brash former president look like a museum docent by comparison. And a renowned presidential biographer is weighing in with a judgment that makes Bush’s gentleman’s Cs at Yale look like the honor roll.
对于乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)来说，这个夏天已经显得难以忍受。他为之奉献终身的党要和他断绝关系，准备提名一个连珠炮般频繁骂人的家伙竞选总统，和他相比，这位以作风强硬著称的前总统活像一个博物馆讲解员。现在，一位著名的总统传记作者也来凑热闹，要对布什作一番评判；他的评判会让布什在耶鲁大学时差劲的成绩相比之下显得像是光荣榜一般。
If Bush eventually gets a more sympathetic hearing by history, as he hopes, it will not start with Jean Edward Smith’s “Bush,” a comprehensive and compelling narrative punctuated by searing verdicts of all the places where the author thinks the 43rd president went off track. Smith’s indictment does not track Donald Trump’s, but the cumulative effect is to leave Bush with few defenders in this season of his discontent.
如果布什最终会如自己所愿，在历史上获得更多同情，那么尚·爱德华·史密斯(Jean Edward Smith)的《布什》(Bush)一书绝不会是那种同情的开始。这是一本引人入胜、非常全面的传记，不时点缀着严厉的论断，都是在作者认为第43任总统误入歧途的地方。史密斯的这份声讨没有附和特朗普对布什的指责，但是二者叠加起来，让布什在这个烦恼的夏天更加没人替他辩护了。
Smith, a longtime academic and finalist for the Pulitzer Prize, made a name for himself in part with masterly biographies of Dwight D. Eisenhower and Ulysses S. Grant, offering historical reassessments of underrated presidents who looked better with the passage of time. With “Bush” he sticks to the original conventional assessment, presenting a shoot-from-the-hip Texan driven by religiosity and immune to the advice of people who knew what they were talking about.
史密斯是一位资深学者，曾经入围普利策奖决选名单。他的名望部分来自为德怀特·D·艾森豪威尔(Dwight D. Eisenhower)和尤利西斯·S·格兰特撰写的杰出传记。这两位总统都曾被低估，随着时间流逝，他们的形象又变得好了起来；这两本传记对他们的历史地位重新做了评价。而在《布什》中，他坚持了最初人们的普遍评价，描绘了一个说话总是不经大脑的德克萨斯人，受宗教狂热的驱使，对各种明智的建议一点儿也听不进去。
While not a fresh portrait, it is one worth debating at a time when the political class is struggling to understand the meaning of Trump’s rise. Trump’s name appears nowhere in “Bush,” but it is clear the populist revolt that propelled him to the verge of the Republican nomination had its roots in Bush’s presidency, so much so that he easily overcame the former president’s brother Jeb. Trump rejects much of what George W. Bush stood for, from the war in Iraq and more forgiving immigration policies to free trade and the very notion of compassionate conservatism.
这幅画像虽然并不新鲜，但是，在政治圈的人们拼命想要理解特朗普的崛起意味着什么的时候，这本书很值得讨论。特朗普的名字在《布什》中并未出现，但是很显然，把他推向共和党提名边缘的这股民粹主义反叛，其根源正是在布什执政时期，因此他才能轻松地战胜这位前总统的弟弟杰布(Jeb)。布什所代表的很多东西，特朗普都反对，从伊拉克战争到更宽容的移民政策，还有自由贸易和“富于同情心的保守主义”这一概念。
As a biographer, Smith makes no comparisons with today’s Republican leader, but he sides unmistakably with those who see Bush’s presidency in the darkest shades, if often for radically different reasons. (Smith abhors waterboarding terror suspects, for example; Trump wants it resumed.)
作为传记作者，史密斯没有把布什和今天的共和党领袖做比较，但他毫无疑问赞同那些用最负面的基调评价布什任期的人们，虽说往往是出于不同的理由（比如说，史密斯厌恶对恐怖主义嫌疑人动用水刑的做法，而特朗普则希望恢复它）。
Smith leaves no mystery where he stands on Bush’s place in history. The first sentence of his book: “Rarely in the history of the United States has the nation been so ill-served as during the presidency of George W. Bush.”
关于布什的历史地位，史密斯毫不含糊。全书的第一句话就是：“美国历史上罕有像乔治·W·布什这样糟糕的总统。”
The last: “Whether George W. Bush was the worst president in American history will be long debated, but his decision to invade Iraq is easily the worst foreign policy decision ever made by an American president.”
最后一句是：“乔治·W·布什究竟是不是美国历史上最糟的总统，人们还会争论很久，但他入侵伊拉克的决定，无疑是历任美国总统所作出的最糟糕的外交决定。”
In between are more than 650 pages of fast-paced if harsh biography. In this telling, Bush’s religious piety took on messianic fervor leading him to turn democracy promotion into a mission from God. He didn’t listen to the generals and diplomats. He badly bungled the response to Hurricane Katrina. He presided over the diminution of American values by authorizing torture and bugging.
在这一头一尾之间，是一本650多页叙事节奏明快、措辞严厉的传记。在这部传记中，布什的宗教信仰演变为救世主式的狂热，让他把宣扬民主视为来自上帝的使命。他不听将军们和外交官们的建议。他对卡特琳娜飓风的应对极为拙劣。他批准实施酷刑与窃听，对美国价值观的贬值负有责任。
“Believing he was the agent of God’s will, and acting with divine guidance, George W. Bush would lead the nation into two disastrous wars of aggression,” Smith writes. “Bush’s personalization of the war on terror combined with his macho assertiveness as the nation’s commander in chief,” he adds later, “were a recipe for disaster.”
“乔治·W·布什相信自己是上帝意志的执行者，他的行动都有神圣的指引，于是他把整个国家引入两场灾难性的侵略战争，”史密斯写道。“布什把反恐战争变得个人化，再加上他作为全国统帅的大男子主义自信，最终造就了灾难。”
The value of Smith’s account is not original reporting but a thorough assimilation of the existing record. Bush declined to speak with him, as he has with other authors since leaving office. Smith spoke with both Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, but for the most part relies on the existing body of literature for a complete history of Bush’s life.
史密斯的叙事最有价值之处并不在于原创性报道，而在于对现有资料的充分运用。布什离任后拒绝接受多位传记作者采访，也同样拒绝了史密斯。史密斯采访过迪克·切尼(Dick Cheney)和唐纳德·拉姆斯菲尔德(Donald Rumsfeld)，但是全书最主要的部分还是依赖现存的大量文献，形成了一部布什人生的完整历史。
Smith is more approving of his main subject in moments where Bush follows his original campaign doctrine of compassionate conservatism. The former president gets high marks for his No Child Left Behind program — intended to improve education, especially for minority students — as well as for expanding Medicare to cover prescription drugs and for leading an ambitious fight against AIDS in Africa. Smith credits Bush for saving the economy through his bold and counterintuitive intervention after the financial crash of 2008.
当布什遵循自己最初的竞选信条，做有同情心的保守主义者的时候，史密斯对他还颇为赞同。这位前总统曾经为了促进教育，特别是少数族裔教育而通过《不让任何孩子落后法案》(No Child Left Behind)，曾把联邦医疗保险扩大到处方药，曾在非洲发起抵抗艾滋病的大规模行动；在这些方面，他被打了高分。史密斯还称赞布什在2008年的金融危机之后，通过大胆而违反直觉的干预拯救了经济。
He presents a president who, for all his flaws, was usually gracious and warmhearted, who disdained the sort of divisive bashing that Trump favors and who went out of his way to make Barack Obama’s transition successful. He rejects the caricature of a president who simply did what his vice president told him to.
他描写了这样一位总统，他虽然有着种种缺点，但往往亲切有礼、热心对人，蔑视特朗普惯用的那套引起分裂的攻击手段，他还竭尽全力完成了与贝拉克·奥巴马(Barack Obama)的顺利交接。他绝不是那种副总统怎么说就怎么干的总统。
Smith’s fundamental critique is his belief that Bush overreacted to the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. “The events of 9/11 were tragic, but scarcely catastrophic,” he writes. That led Bush, in his view, to advance policies that were not justified by the actual danger.
史密斯对布什最根本的批评在于，他相信布什对2001年的9·11恐怖袭击做出了过度反应。他写道：“9·11事件是悲剧，但并不是灾难性的。”在他看来，这让布什实施了一系列预判性的政策，而显示危险却并没有达到那个程度。
The Patriot Act, he writes, “may be the most ill-conceived piece of domestic legislation since the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798.” In labeling Iran, Iraq and North Korea an “axis of evil,” Bush “had spoken without weighing the consequences.” Bush’s refusal to face up to the fact that Iraq had no unconventional weapons “suggests a willfulness that borders on psychosis.” His second-term Inaugural Address making democracy promotion his major goal “must rank as one of the most ill-considered of all time.”
他写道，《爱国者法案》(The Patriot Act)，“可能是自1798年《外侨和煽动叛乱法案》(Alien and Sedition Acts)以来最糟糕的内政立法”。布什把伊朗、伊拉克和朝鲜列为“邪恶轴心”的时候，他“说话根本没考虑后果”。布什拒绝面对伊拉克没有非常规武器这个事实，“显示出一种近乎疯狂的任性”。他在第二任期的就职演说中称，促进民主是他的主要目标，这“堪称史上最欠考虑的讲话之一。”
Smith takes this indictment further than others by criticizing even the decision to go to war in Afghanistan, suggesting that it was a mistake to conflate the Taliban with al-Qaida. He, of course, has the benefit of hindsight. Even if he is right, few if any leaders in either party at the time argued against the invasion. And what is often overlooked is how Bush evolved over time and modified his approach to the point that Obama kept many of his national security policies after taking office.
史密斯对布什的控诉比其他人走得更远，他甚至批评布什发动阿富汗战争的决定，认为他把塔利班和基地组织混为一谈，犯了错误。当然，他在事后评论，可以看得更清楚。但就算他是正确的，可当时两党之中却几乎没有任何领导人反对入侵阿富汗。而且布什也在不断改进，调整他的做事方式，以至于奥巴马上任后，沿用了许多他的国家安全政策，这一点经常为人们所忽略。
But if Bush feels bruised by Smith’s evaluation, he can commiserate at Kennebunkport, Maine, this summer with his father. In 1992, Smith published “George Bush’s War,” castigating the first President Bush for Operation Desert Storm’s expulsion of Iraqi troops from Kuwait.
但是，如果布什觉得自己被史密斯批得体无完肤，他至少还可以在这个夏天去缅因州的肯纳邦克波特，向他的父亲表示慰问。1992年，史密斯发表了《乔治·布什的战争》(George Bush’s War)一书，抨击了老布什总统将伊拉克军队逐出科威特的沙漠风暴军事行动。
He scorned the 41st president for personalizing world politics, accused him of dissembling and screening out expert opinion and going to war against Iraq mainly because he wanted a fight — all themes that repeat in “Bush.”
他批评第41任总统将世界政治搞得过于个人化，批评他掩盖真相，屏蔽专家意见，认为他发动对伊拉克的战争主要就是因为他想打仗——这些主题在《布什》里再次出现。
Ultimately, the elder Bush’s reputation has grown with time despite this assessment — to his chagrin, partly because of comparisons with his son. The younger Bush now has to hope for the same — and may be able to count on comparisons with Trump to make him look better with time.
尽管被史密斯下了这样的评语，但老布什的名声最终还是随着时间一点点好起来——这让他失望，部分正是因为和他儿子做比较的结果。如今，小布什也只好希望同样的事情在他身上发生——说不定，他可以指望自己和特朗普的对比，会让他的形象随着时间流逝而改善一些。
Publication Notes:
出版信息：
“Bush”
《布什》
By Jean Edward Smith
尚·爱德华·史密斯著
Illustrated. 808 pages. Simon & Schuster. $35.
有插图，808页，西蒙与舒斯特出版社(Simon & Schuster)，35美元。