WASHINGTON — Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, has asked the White House for documents about some of President Trump’s most scrutinized actions since taking office, including the firing of his national security adviser and F.B.I. director, according to White House officials.
华盛顿——据白宫官员称，特别检察官罗伯特·S·穆勒三世(Robert S. Mueller III)要求白宫提供特朗普上台后最受关注的一些行动有关的文件，包括解雇国家安全顾问和联邦调查局(FBI)局长相关资料。
Mr. Mueller is also interested in an Oval Office meeting Mr. Trump had with Russian officials in which he said the dismissal of the F.B.I. director had relieved “great pressure” on him.
穆勒对特朗普同俄罗斯官员在椭圆形办公室(Oval Office)举行的会面也很感兴趣。在那次会议上，特朗普称解雇FBI局长缓解了他身上的“巨大压力”。
The document requests provide the most details to date about the breadth of Mr. Mueller’s investigation, and show that several aspects of his inquiry are focused squarely on Mr. Trump’s behavior in the White House.
出示文件的要求提供了迄今为止有关穆勒调查范围的最详尽细节，并且表明其调查的多个方面直接集中在特朗普在白宫的行为上。
In recent weeks, Mr. Mueller’s office sent a document to the White House that detailed 13 areas in which investigators are seeking information. Since then, administration lawyers have been scouring White House emails and asking officials whether they have other documents or notes that may pertain to Mr. Mueller’s requests.
最近几周，穆勒的办公室给白宫发送了一份文件，详细列出了调查人员正在寻求信息的13个领域。自那之后，联邦政府的律师一直在查询白宫的电子邮件，并询问官员是否有其他可能和穆勒的要求有关的文件或记录。
One of the requests is about a meeting Mr. Trump had in May with Russian officials in the Oval Office the day after James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director, was fired. That day, Mr. Trump met with the Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, and the Russian ambassador to the United States at the time, Sergey I. Kislyak, along with other Russian officials. The New York Times reported that in the meeting Mr. Trump had said that firing Mr. Comey relieved “great pressure” on him.
其中一个要求是关于5月特朗普在FBI局长詹姆斯·B·科米(James B. Comey)被解职后的第二天，在椭圆形办公室同俄罗斯外长谢尔盖·V·拉夫罗夫(Sergey V. Lavrov)、时任俄驻美大使谢尔盖·I·基斯利亚克(Sergey I. Kislyak)及其他俄罗斯官员举行的会面的。《纽约时报》报道称，在那次会议上，特朗普说，解雇科米缓解了他身上的“巨大压力”。
Mr. Mueller has also requested documents about the circumstances of the firing of Michael T. Flynn, who was Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser. Additionally, the special counsel has asked for documents about how the White House responded to questions from The Times about a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower. That meeting was set up by Donald Trump Jr., the president’s eldest son, to get derogatory information from Russians about Hillary Clinton.
穆勒还要求提供与解雇特朗普的第一任国家安全顾问迈克尔·弗林(Michael Flynn)有关的文件。此外，特别检察官还要求提供有关白宫是如何回复时报对2016年6月在特朗普大厦召开的一次会面的提问的文件。那次会面是特朗普的长子小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)为了从俄方获取希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的黑材料而安排的。
In July, when The Times put questions about the meeting to the White House, Mr. Trump and senior administration officials prepared a response on Air Force One that made no mention of the meeting’s real purpose, saying instead that it focused on Russian adoptions. Mr. Mueller has asked for all documents the White House has about the meeting, and all internal White House communications about the statement drafted on Air Force One.
7月，当时报就那次会面向白宫提问时，特朗普和联邦政府高级官员在空军一号(Air Force One)上准备了一份答复。答复没有提及那次会议的真实意图，称会议的主要内容关于俄罗斯的收养问题。穆勒要求提供所有和那次会面有关的文件，以及所有和在空军一号上起草的那份声明有关的白宫内部联络信息。
Ty Cobb, the lawyer Mr. Trump hired to provide materials related to the Russia investigation to the special counsel and Congress, has told Mr. Mueller’s office that he will turn over many of the documents this week.
特朗普请来为特别检察官和国会提供与通俄调查有关材料的律师泰·柯布(Ty Cobb)对穆勒的办公室表示，他将于本周移交很多文件。
“We can’t comment on any specific requests being made or our conversations with the special counsel,” he said.
“我们不能评论任何具体的要求或我们与特别检察官的沟通，”他说。
Based on the document request to the White House, there is no indication that Mr. Mueller is pressing to examine Mr. Trump’s personal finances or business dealings — areas the president has said should be off limits. It is not clear whether Mr. Mueller has made separate document requests elsewhere to examine those subjects.
根据向白宫提出的文件出示要求，没有迹象表明穆勒要求调查特朗普的个人财务或商业交易——特朗普称，这些领域应免受调查。尚不清楚穆勒是否为了调查这些领域而向其他地方提出了单独的文件出示要求。
Mr. Mueller has asked for all internal White House communications about numerous former campaign officials, including Paul J. Manafort, the former campaign chairman who is now under federal investigation. The document request also seeks communications about Mr. Trump’s campaign foreign policy team: Carter Page, J. D. Gordon, Keith Kellogg, George Papadopoulos, Walid Phares and Joseph E. Schmitz.
穆勒还要求提供和很多前竞选官员，包括现正接受联邦调查的前竞选主席保罗·J·马纳福特(Paul J. Manafort)有关的所有白宫内部联络信息。这个要求还涉及特朗普竞选团队的外交政策团队：卡特·佩奇(Carter Page)、J·D·戈登(J. D. Gordon)、基思·凯洛格(Keith Kellogg)、乔治·帕帕佐普洛斯(George Papadopoulos)、瓦利德·法勒斯(Walid Phares)和约瑟夫·E·施密茨(Joseph E. Schmitz)。
Of the 13 subjects in Mr. Mueller’s document request, four are related to Mr. Flynn. The retired lieutenant general was fired in February after it was revealed that he misled Vice President Mike Pence about December phone calls he had with Mr. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador at the time.
在穆勒的文件出示要求涉及的13个人中，4人和弗林有关。今年2月，在被曝出去年12月与时任俄驻美大使基斯利亚克通电话一事上误导副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)后，这位退役中将被解雇。
American officials said Mr. Flynn had told the vice president that he had only exchanged holiday greetings with Mr. Kislyak, when in fact the two men had discussed economic sanctions against Russia. The phone calls took place in late December, around the same time the Obama administration was announcing sanctions to punish Russia for what American officials said was a Russian campaign to disrupt the November presidential election.
美国官员称，弗林告诉副总统自己只是和基斯利亚克互道节日的问候，但实际上两人讨论了对俄罗斯的经济制裁。两人的通话发生在12月末。大约是在同一时间，因为美国官员所说的俄罗斯扰乱11月大选的行动，奥巴马政府宣布了对俄罗斯的制裁措施。
F.B.I. agents interviewed Mr. Flynn about the phone calls, and the special counsel has requested all internal White House communications about the F.B.I. interview. Mr. Mueller has also asked for documents about how the White House responded to concerns raised by the Justice Department that Mr. Flynn might be subject to Russian blackmail for misleading Mr. Pence about the calls.
FBI探员曾就相关通话问讯弗林，特别检察官要求提供和FBI那次问讯有关的所有白宫内部联络信息。穆勒还要求白宫提供司法部担心弗林可能因为在通话一事上误导彭斯而遭到俄罗斯胁迫时的回复文件。
Three of Mr. Mueller’s requests focus on Mr. Comey’s firing. The special counsel wants any White House documents about the decision-making that led to Mr. Comey’s firing, and about all meetings Mr. Comey had with Mr. Trump.
穆勒的要求中，有三个集中在科米被解职一事上。特别检察官希望获取一切和导致科米被解雇的决策，以及科米和特朗普的所有会面有关的白宫文件。
Mr. Mueller was appointed in May, shortly after it was revealed that Mr. Comey had written a series of memos about his interactions with Mr. Trump — including one Oval Office meeting when Mr. Comey said Mr. Trump had asked him to end the F.B.I. investigation of Mr. Flynn. During another meeting, the president asked for a pledge of loyalty from the F.B.I. director, according to Mr. Comey’s public testimony.
穆勒5月被任命为特别检察官。在那之前不久，科米被曝出写了一系列备忘录，记述自己和特朗普的往来，包括在椭圆形办公室的一次会面。科米说，在那次会面期间，特朗普要求他结束FBI对弗林的调查。据科米的公开证词显示，在另一次会面期间，总统要求这位FBI局长承诺效忠于他。
The special counsel has requested documents about a statement made a week before Mr. Comey’s firing by the former White House press secretary, Sean Spicer.
特别检察官要求提供有关前白宫发言人肖恩·斯派塞(Sean Spicer)在科米被解雇前一周发表的那份声明相关的文件。
During a May 3 news briefing, Mr. Spicer said that “the president has confidence in the director.”
在5月3日的新闻发布会上，斯派塞称“总统信任局长”。
The previous night, Mr. Trump had tweeted that Mr. Comey “was the best thing that ever happened to Hillary Clinton in that he gave her a free pass for many bad deeds!”
之前一天晚上，特朗普发推文称科米“是希拉里·克林顿的福星，对她做的很多坏事都睁一只眼闭一只眼”。