The Swiss-born, London-based author Alain de Botton has spent his career applying great ideas of philosophy and literature to everyday life. He has argued that art could stand in for psychotherapy and that Proust can be read as a self-help guide. A few years ago, he stranded himself at Heathrow for a week to consider the modern meaning of airports. Mr. de Botton’s latest quotidian investigation, “The News: A User’s Manual,” takes on journalism, a force that he describes as omnipresent, informative and almost never enlightening.
出生于瑞士、在伦敦定居的作家阿兰·德·波顿(Alain de Botton)致力于把哲学和文学中的伟大思想运用于日常生活中。他认为艺术可以代替心理治疗，而普鲁斯特(Proust)的作品则可以当做励志手册。几年前，他把自己在伦敦希斯罗机场困了一个星期，来思考机场在现代生活中的意义。德·波顿先生最近的生活调查《新闻：使用者手册》(The News: A User’s Manual)的主题是新闻。用德·波顿的话来说，新闻是一股无处不在的力量，为我们提供信息，但却很少能带给我们启迪。
His book coincides with the start of The Philosophers’ Mail, an online news site run by Mr. de Botton and financed by The School of Life, a pop philosophy institute in London that offers seminars on things like “How to Spend Time Alone.” The news site is modeled on The Daily Mail, a British tabloid, but it approaches celebrity news and global affairs as philosophically teachable moments. Paparazzi photographs of Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes are juxtaposed with quotes from Schopenhauer on the futility of love. Imagined interviews with the “souls” of David Beckham and Angela Merkel turn into discussions of the virtues of stoicism and steadfastness. A report about civil unrest in Ukraine becomes an inquiry into the nature of apathy, with a headline: “Kiev Is in Flames and I Don’t Care.” The site is edited by Richard Addis, a former executive editor of The Daily Mail, and the stories, while unsigned, are written by philosophers associated with The School of Life, including Damon Young and John Armstrong.
德·波顿近著出版的同时，他策划的“哲学家邮报”(The Philosophers’ Mail)网站也上线了。“哲学家邮报”是一个新闻网站，由“人生学校”—一个位于伦敦的通俗哲学学院出资。该学院开设一些诸如“如何独处”这样的讲座。“哲学家邮报”网站基于英国小报《每日邮报》(The Daily Mail)网站的模式。但是却致力探究名人八卦和世界时事背后的哲学涵义。汤姆·克鲁斯(Tom Cruise)和凯蒂·霍尔姆斯(Katie Holmes)的狗仔照片会配有叔本华关于爱之徒劳的语录。 对大卫·贝克汉姆(David Beckham)和安吉拉·默克尔(Angela Merkel )“灵魂”的假想采访其实是关于坚忍克己，持之以恒品德的讨论。一篇关于乌克兰警民冲突的报道变成了关于冷漠的探讨——该报道的标题是“基辅在烈焰中燃烧，而我根本不在乎”。网站的主编是《每日邮报》前执行主编理查德·艾迪斯(Richard Addis)。网站的内容并没有署名，是由与“人生学校”的哲学学者们执笔，供稿人包括戴蒙·杨(Damon Young)和约翰·阿姆斯特朗(John Armstrong)。
“The underlying kind of ambition is to say high-minded people have lived up in the tower too long,” Mr. de Botton said by telephone from London. “They need to step down into the street and make their case in the busy roar of the marketplace.”
“我们的想法是，思想清高的人们在象牙塔里呆的时间太长了，” 德·波顿在伦敦接受电话采访时说，“他们需要走出来到街上，到喧嚣的集市上向普通人阐述他们的观点。”
The following is an edited version of a conversation with Mr. de Botton about the project.
以下是关于德·波顿新项目的采访，内容经过编辑。
Q. When did you decide the world needed a news site written by philosophers?
问：你什么时候想到我们需要一个由哲学家们执笔的新闻网站？
A. I was sitting around with a group of philosopher friends six months ago and someone told me that the average work of contemporary philosophy sold around 300 copies. Then someone else mentioned that the online version of The Daily Mail, the highest-ranking English-language news site in the world, is 40 million hits a day. And late one insomniac night I just went, O.K., imagine if you copied the Mail Online — the murders, the suicides, incest, whatever — but just captioned it differently. You can start with Taylor Swift, or a double-murder in a caravan, and go somewhere interesting.
答：六个月前，在和一些哲学家朋友聚会时，有人告诉我，现当代哲学家的著作平均下来每人只能卖出去300本。然后又有人提到《每日邮报》网站每天有四千万的点击量，是世界上点击量最高的英语新闻网站。于是在一个失眠的晚上，我突然就想到：如果照搬《每日邮报》——报道些谋杀，自杀，乱伦什么的——但是却给图片配上不同的解说。可以用泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)或是一宗在拖车里发生的双重谋杀案作开头，然后讲点别的有趣的东西。
Q. Your contention is that the regular news is fundamentally misleading in a way that has nothing to do with facts or accuracy. 
问：你的观点是普通新闻在本质上是误导性的，而这种误导性跟事实和准确性无关。
A. I think because news is so focused on information-gathering it’s got a blind spot about this other task it really needs to be doing, which is getting information to matter for people. There are all sorts of paradoxes with the news, areas of slight confusion and missed opportunities. The classic one is what we call “world news.” World news tells us lots of things like: 300 people have just died in the Democratic Republic of Congo. People read this and just shrug their shoulders and go, “Well, I don’t care.” And they go to sleep. How extraordinary that we can ignore or neglect the deaths of hundreds. What’s going on? Is it that we’re monsters? No, it’s just that you can’t possibly care about the death of someone you never knew existed. The news focuses on the catastrophe but doesn’t give us the tools to understand the kind of steady state of a place. You have to be introduced to the lives of a people before you can start to care about what’s gone wrong with them.
答：我认为新闻太注重搜集信息，而忽视了它另一项必需的任务，那就是要使人们觉得信息事关于己。新闻里有着各种各样的矛盾谬论，有些地方本来可以做得更好，却被弄得模棱两可。最好的例子就是我们所谓的“世界新闻”。世界新闻告诉我们很多事：比如300人不久前在刚果民主共和国遇难身亡。人们读到这则新闻会耸耸肩，说：“这关我什么事。”然后去睡觉。我们对成百人的死亡视而不见或是无动于衷，这多么奇怪啊。这是怎么了？难道我们是没有人性的恶魔吗？并不是这样。你怎么可能会去关心以前并不知道存在的一个人的逝去？新闻聚焦灾难本身，却没有给读者提供了解灾难发生地日常状态的途径。人们需要了解受灾者的生活，然后才会关心他们遇到的困难。
Q. But isn’t news in the aggregate reflective of what the consumer wants? Don’t people ultimately get the news they deserve? 
问：在聚合时代，难道新闻不是反映了消费者的需求吗？人们最终不是读到了和他们品味和需求相应的新闻吗？
A. There’s definitely a view that the audience is debased. They need quick hits, and that’s why they’re going to go the Mail Online and read about deaths and scandals and they’re not going to read about Syria. That is a real challenge of our age. I think even serious news outlets that in the past could rely on their authority are having a harder time. We’re living in an anti-hierarchical age. You can’t simply say, “We are the BBC and you must listen to us. People will just go, ‘No, I’m finding Vice a little more exciting at the moment.”’
答：有一种观点是读者品味低劣。他们要看热门点击。所以他们会去《每日邮报》网站看死亡事件和各种丑闻，而不会去读关于叙利亚局势的报道。这对我们的时代确实是一个挑战。在过去能依靠权威性引导读者的严肃新闻媒体现在日子也越来越不好过。我们生活在一个反阶层的时代。你不能说：“我们是BBC，你必需听我们的。”人们会说：“不，我觉得现在《Vice》（专注艺术文化和新闻的新媒体杂志，在Youtube上开有频道——译注）更有趣些。”
Q. What about neutrality — a value that so many news organizations hold near and dear. Do you think it’s overrated? 
问：许多新闻组织都非常重视新闻的中立性。你是怎么看待这一点的？你认为中立性的重要被夸大了吗？
A. There is a view that bias is something that “bad” news organizations do, like Fox News. But the real distinction should be between good and bad bias. The opposite of bias is a neutral presentation of facts, but many of the great questions that surround our civilization demand a take, or would really benefit from a take. And we should be grown-up enough to leave it behind if we don’t like it. The BBC is truly the global exemplar of this problem. They’ll have a panel discussion on something like genital mutilation and they’ll have someone who is pro-genital mutilation and someone against genital mutilation. It’s like, Come on guys! What about coming to a view on this?
答：有一种观点是，倾向性是“糟糕”的新闻机构才会具有的特征，比如福克斯电视新闻网(Fox)。但是区分新闻机构好坏的标准应该看它的倾向性是好还是坏。有倾向性的反面是对事实中立地呈现。但是跟我们文明有关的许多宏大的问题都需要我们持有看法，有些问题或许可以从某种观点中获益。如果我们不喜欢某种观点，我们应该成熟理性，不过于纠结。BBC在这一点上是一个反面教材。他们会有一个关于割礼的讨论。一些人反对，一些人赞成。你会觉得：伙计们，快点吧！你们到底能不能达成一个统一的见解？
Q. There are no comments on The Philosophers’ Mail. In a post about why that is, the newspaper says that people are generally reasonable, but seem by their Internet comments to be “heartless, obsessive, unforgiving — in a word, little short of insane.” 
问：“哲学家邮报”没有评论功能。在一篇文章中，网站解释说人们大多都是理性的，但是网上评论却使他们显得“无情，执迷，不宽仁——离疯狂差不了多少。”
A. Reading comments is comparable to reading someone’s journal. Sometimes people in extreme moods will go to their journal and they’ll write, “I hate everybody, I want to kill myself, everything’s hopeless.” Then they’ll go have a good cry and put the journal away. It’s really important that you don’t read that journal because it does not give you the truth about a person. It gives you what they were like in a particular mind-set. And if we want to live in a society where we love, and trust, and can talk to strangers, we shouldn’t read those things. Because it’s going to make it really hard to leave the house.
答：读评论就好像看某人的日记。有时人们在极端情绪控制下会在日记里写道：“我恨每个人，我想自杀，万事无望。”然后他们大哭一场，就忘掉了日记这码事。一定不要去读那本日记，因为它并不能告诉你作者的真实情况。它反映的是作者在某种情绪下的状态。如果我们想要生活在一个互相关爱，互相信任，和陌生人说话也不会心存顾忌的社会里，那我们就不该读这些东西。读了的话你就再也不敢出门了。