WASHINGTON — If President Donald Trump emerged from his meeting with President Vladimir Putin of Russia last week hoping he had begun to “move forward” from the controversy over the Kremlin’s election meddling, as advisers put it, his flight home the next day made clear just how overly optimistic that was.
华盛顿——如果说特朗普希望在上周与普京会晤后能够像他顾问说的那样，“摆脱”关于克里姆林宫干预总统选举的争议，那么在第二天他飞回国的过程中，情况已经很清楚：他过分乐观了。
As Air Force One jetted back from Europe on Saturday, a small cadre of Trump’s advisers huddled in a cabin helping to craft a statement for the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., to give to The New York Times explaining why he met last summer with a lawyer connected to the Russian government. Participants on the plane and back in the United States debated how transparent to be in the statement, according to people familiar with the discussions.
上周六，就在空军一号从欧洲飞回美国途中，特朗普的几个顾问挤在一个机舱内，帮助总统的长子小唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump Jr.)起草声明，向《纽约时报》解释为什么他去年夏天要和一位与俄罗斯政府有联系的律师会面。据知情人士说，在空军一号上以及在美国国内的参与者讨论了这个声明应该有多大的透明度。
Ultimately, the people said, the president signed off on a statement from Donald Trump Jr. for The Times that was so incomplete that it required day after day of follow-up statements, each more revealing than the last. It culminated on Tuesday with a release of emails making clear that Trump’s son believed the Russian lawyer was seeking to meet with him to provide incriminating information about Hillary Clinton as “part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.”
知情人士说，最后，总统批准了小唐纳德·特朗普对《纽约时报》的声明，这个声明是不完整的，所以接下来每天都要发新声明，每篇声明都比上一篇更加有料。这个状况在周二达到了高潮，一批曝光的电邮明确显示，特朗普的儿子相信，那名俄罗斯律师希望与他会面，向他提供关于希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)有罪的信息，是“俄罗斯及其政府对特朗普先生的支持的一部分”。
The Russia story has become the brier patch from which the president seemingly cannot escape. It dominated his trip to Europe last week and, after he leaves on Wednesday night for a couple of days in France, it may dominate that trip as well. Every time the elder Trump tries to put the furor behind him, more disclosures thrust it back onto the Washington agenda.
“通俄门”似乎成了特朗普无法逃脱的障碍。这不仅主宰了上周他的欧洲之行，在周三晚上他出发前往法国之后，还可能会左右接下来这几天的行程。老特朗普每一次试图将这种喧嚣甩到身后，都会有更多的曝料把“通俄门”重新推回到华盛顿的议程上。
Even before the latest reports, Trump’s head-spinning willingness on creating a joint cybersecurity team with Russia fueled criticism. Now people close to the president and to his legal effort are engaged in a circular firing squad, anonymously blaming one another for the decisions of the last few days.
即使在最新这波报道出来之前，特朗普想和俄罗斯建立联合网络安全团队的意愿也让人摸不着头脑，引发了批评。现在，对总统及其法律活动知根知底的那批人互相攻讦，对于几天前做出的决定，他们匿名指责彼此。
The emails, which the younger Trump released after learning that The Times had obtained copies and was about to publish them, undercut the president’s line of defense in the Russia inquiry. For months, the elder Trump has dismissed suspicions of collusion between Russia and his team as “fake news” and a “total hoax.” His eldest son, likewise, had previously asserted that talk of collusion was “disgusting” and “so phony.” Donald Trump Jr. said in a Fox News interview that he would have done things differently in retrospect, but he maintained he had done nothing improper.
小特朗普得知时报已经掌握这些电邮，并且即将发表之后，就抢先将之公之于众，切断了总统在“通俄门”调查中的防线。几个月以来，老特朗普一再把俄罗斯与自己竞选班底勾结的怀疑驳斥为“假新闻”和“大骗局”。他的长子也曾说过，勾结的说法“令人恶心”，“太虚伪”。小特朗普在福克斯新闻的访谈中说，回头来看，他可能会换一种做法，但他坚称自己做的事情没有任何不妥之处。
At a minimum, however, the emails show that the younger Trump was not only willing but also eager to accept help advertised as coming from the Russian government. “I love it,” he wrote.
然而，这些电邮起码显示了小特朗普不仅愿意，而且乐于接受那些号称是来自俄罗斯政府的帮助。“我很喜欢，”他写道。
Joining him at the meeting with the Russian lawyer in June 2016 were Jared Kushner, his sister’s husband and now a senior White House adviser, and Paul J. Manafort, then the campaign chairman and a veteran political operative with longstanding ties to a pro-Russia party in Ukraine. Both the younger Trump and the Russian lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya, have said in recent days that no incriminating information about Clinton was actually passed along during the meeting at Trump Tower, but that Veselnitskaya did discuss U.S. sanctions imposed on Russian human rights offenders.
他于2016年6月与那名俄罗斯律师会面，在场的还有他妹夫贾里德·库什纳(Jared Kushner)和当时的竞选主席保罗·J·马纳福特(Paul J. Manafort)；库什纳现在是白宫高级顾问，马纳福特则是资深的政界推手，和乌克兰的亲俄党派有长期联系。小特朗普和这名俄罗斯律师娜塔莉娅·维塞尼茨卡雅(Natalia Veselnitskaya)近期都表示，在特朗普大厦里的那次会面没有提供任何有关克林顿的资料，维塞尼茨卡雅讨论的是美国对俄罗斯侵犯人权行为的制裁。
In the Fox News interview on Tuesday night, the younger Trump said that Kushner left the meeting a few minutes after it began.
周二晚接受福克斯新闻频道采访时，小特朗普表示，库什纳在会面开始几分钟后便离开了。
While Donald Trump Jr. has been the main focus of the controversy because he set up the meeting, Kushner faces potential trouble because he currently works in the White House and neglected to mention the encounter on forms he filled out for a background check to obtain a security clearance. The emails were discovered in recent weeks by Kushner’s legal team as it reviewed documents, and they amended his clearance forms to disclose it, according to people briefed on the developments, who like others declined to be identified because of the sensitive political and legal issues involved.
尽管小唐纳德·特朗普一直是这个争议事件的主要焦点——因为是他安排了这次会面——但有可能遇到麻烦的是库什纳，因为他目前效力于白宫，却没有在为获得安全权限而填写的背景调查表上提及这次会面。这些邮件是库什纳的律师团队最近几周在审核文件时发现的，他们对他的安全权限表格进行了修改，将这一信息公开，该消息来自了解最新相关进展的人士，像其他人一样，此人以涉及敏感政治和法律问题为由拒绝公布自己的身份。
Similarly, Manafort recently mentioned the meeting to congressional investigators looking into possible collusion, according to the people briefed on the matter.
据上述知情人士透露，马纳福特最近也向调查可能存在的通俄行为的国会调查人员提到了这次会面。
The disclosure of the emails left the White House again on the defensive as tension inside the president’s orbit has grown. Trump is exasperated and, at the urging of advisers, said nothing publicly in defense of his son until Tuesday, when he issued a one-sentence statement. “My son is a high-quality person and I applaud his transparency,” Trump said. Hours later, he added on Twitter that his son “is a great person who loves our country!”
邮件的泄露让白宫再一次进入防守状态，总统团队内部的紧张关系则开始加剧。特朗普十分恼怒，但他在顾问们的力劝下一直没有公开维护自己的儿子，直到周二发布一项只有一句话的声明。“我儿子是一个高素质的人，我为他的坦荡喝彩，”特朗普说。几小时后，他又在Twitter上写道，他的儿子“是个很棒的人，他热爱我们的国家！”。
Advisers said the president was annoyed not so much by his son as by the headlines. But three people close to the legal team said he had also trained his ire on Marc E. Kasowitz, his longtime lawyer, who is leading the team of private lawyers representing him. Trump, who often vents about advisers during times of trouble, has grown disillusioned by Kasowitz’s strategy, the people said.
顾问们表示，令总统大为光火的是新闻报道的大标题，而不是他的儿子。但三位与律师团队关系密切的人士表示，他还把自己的怒火对准了自己长久以来的律师马克·E·卡索威茨(Marc E. Kasowitz)，此人领导着为他处理法律事务的私人律师团队。这名人士表示，经常在出现麻烦的时候朝顾问们发火的特朗普，开始对卡索威茨的策略感到失望。
The strain, though, exists on both sides. Kasowitz and his colleagues have been deeply frustrated by the president. And they have complained that Kushner has been whispering in the president’s ear about the Russia investigations and stories while keeping the lawyers out of the loop, according to another person familiar with the legal team. But one person familiar with Kasowitz’s thinking said that his concerns did not relate to Kushner.
不过，这种紧张关系是双向的。卡索威茨和他的同事也对这位总统感到深深的不满。据另一名熟悉该律师团队的人士透露，他们曾抱怨库什纳一直在悄悄地跟总统讲有关俄罗斯调查的事和情况，却把律师们蒙在鼓里。但一名了解卡索威茨想法的人士表示，他的担忧与库什纳无关。
The president’s lawyers view Kushner as an obstacle and freelancer more concerned about protecting himself than his father-in-law, the person said. While no ultimatum has been delivered, the lawyers have told colleagues that they cannot keep operating that way, raising the prospect that Kasowitz may resign.
这名人士表示，总统的律师们认为库什纳是一个障碍，也是一个更关心保护自己而非他的岳父的自由人。尽管还没有发出最后通牒，但这些律师们已经告知同事，他们不能再这样下去，这意味着卡索威茨有可能会辞职。
Also, the president has fumed to close allies that he is mulling a staff change, and some members of his family have zeroed in on the chief of staff, Reince Priebus. But most Trump advisers privately concede that major changes are unlikely anytime soon.
与此同时，总统对自己的亲密盟友感到十分愤怒，以致于在考虑进行人事调整，他的一些家庭成员已经将目光对准了白宫幕僚长雷恩斯·普利巴斯(Reince Priebus)。但特朗普的大多数顾问私下承认，短时间内不太可能出现重大调整。
The developments provoked sharp criticism by Democrats and even some Republicans. “Nothing’s proven yet, but we’re now beyond obstruction of justice in terms of what’s being investigated,” Sen. Tim Kaine, D-Va. and Clinton’s running mate last year, said on Tuesday. “This is moving into perjury, false statements and even potentially treason.”
最新的情况引发民主党人，乃至一些共和党人的尖锐批评。“还没有什么确凿的证明，但是就正在被调查的事情而言，已经超出了妨碍司法公正的范畴，”克林顿去年的竞选搭档、弗吉尼亚州民主党参议员蒂姆·凯恩(Tim Kaine)说。“事态正朝着作伪证、发表假声明的方向发展，甚至有可能涉及叛国罪。”
Republicans in Congress made little effort to defend the White House and some expressed concern. “I voted for @POTUS last Nov. & want him & USA to succeed, but that meeting, given that email chain just released, is a big no-no,” Rep. Lee Zeldin, R-N.Y., wrote on Twitter, using the acronym for president of the United States.
国会中的共和党人没怎么为白宫辩护，有些还表达了自己的担忧。“去年11月我投票给@POTUS，期待他和美国能获得成功，但考虑刚被公开的往来邮件，那次会面就是一个大大的否定，”纽约州共和党众议员李·泽尔丁(Lee Zeldin)在Twitter上写道，他使用了一个代指美国总统的缩写。
The White House rejected the criticism. Asked about the use of the term “treason,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the principal deputy White House press secretary, said, “I think those new words are ridiculous.”
白宫驳斥了这种批评。在被问及“叛国”这个词的使用时，白宫副新闻秘书萨拉·赫卡比·桑德斯(Sarah Huckabee Sanders)说，“我觉得这些新冒出来的词很荒谬。”
Trump’s son and the president’s defenders said that once again, the fuss was unwarranted. “Media & Dems are extremely invested in the Russia story,” Donald Trump Jr. wrote on Twitter. “If this nonsense meeting is all they have after a yr, I understand the desperation!”
特朗普的儿子和总统的维护者表示，像上次一样，这样大惊小怪是没有必要的。“媒体和民主党人执迷于那个有关俄罗斯的故事，”小唐纳德·特朗普在Twitter上写道。“如果一场没什么意义的会面就是他们努力一年后能拿到的所有证据，那我就明白了他们何以如此孤注一掷！”
Inside Trump’s team, the response to the developments has become a subject of intense dispute. Three people familiar with his son’s account said he pushed to offer a full explanation on Saturday when first contacted by The Times about the meeting, and said he agitated to be allowed to defend himself publicly. But three other people involved in the discussions offered a completely contrary version of events, insisting that the younger Trump adamantly resisted an expansive disclosure.
在特朗普的团队里，对事态新发展的反应已经成为一个引发激烈争论的话题。三名熟悉特朗普儿子情况的人士表示，当《纽约时报》第一次联系小特朗普询问那次会面时，他主动要求在周六提供一个完整的解释，还说他激动地想获准为自己公开辩护。但另外三名参与该讨论的人士提供了一种完全相反的说法，坚称小特朗普坚决反对全面透露这些情况。
On Tuesday, the Trumps projected a united front.
周二，特朗普一家对外展示了统一的立场。
“This is the EXACT reason they viciously attack our family!” Eric Trump, the president’s second-oldest son, posted on Twitter.“They can’t stand that we are extremely close and will ALWAYS support each other.”
“这是他们猛烈攻击我们一家的确切原因！”总统的次子埃里克·特朗普(Eric Trump)在Twitter上写道。“他们无法容忍我们这么亲密，这样永远彼此支持。”