There’s good news in South Korea: One of the country’s favorite actresses may return to the spotlight after a six-year absence. Unlike many entertainers who take time away for rehab or spiritual regeneration, Ok So-ri, a celebrated actress of the 1990s and the former host of the popular radio show “11 O’clock, I Am Ok So-ri,” left the country and abandoned her career to stay out of jail. In 2008 she was sentenced to eight months in prison after the actor Park Chul, who was then her husband, accused her of adultery. Now she is poised to come back home.
韩国传来了好消息：深受国民喜爱的一名女演员时隔六年之后可能会重返聚光灯之下。许多艺人从公众视线中消失是为了疗养或者去灵修，玉素利(Ok So-ri)不同，她之所以抛弃演艺事业离开韩国，是为了避免牢狱之灾。她是上世纪90年代的著名演员，还主持了人气颇高的电台节目《FM 11: 00 玉素利》。不过，由于演员丈夫朴哲(Park Chul)指控她通奸，玉素利于2008年被判处八个月监禁。现在，她准备好回国了。
In February, South Korea’s Constitutional Court overturned the 62-year-old law that made adultery illegal. While enforcement has relaxed in recent years, about 53,000 people have been charged with adultery since 1985, the year the government started keeping track. If found guilty, the penalty could include jail time of up to two years, although it had become rare for convicted adulterers to serve time.
今年2月，韩国宪法法院废除了一项拥有62年历史的法律。该法规定，通奸属于犯罪行为。尽管近年来这方面的执法在放松，但自从政府1985年开始进行统计以来，有5.3万人遭到通奸罪的起诉。如果罪名成立，被告可能面临最高达两年的有期徒刑。不过，定罪的通奸者真正服刑的事情越来越少见。
The ruling reflects the slow shift in South Korea from privileging traditional Asian values over individual rights and freedoms. The majority opinion in the 7-2 vote said, “It should be left to the free will and love of people to decide whether to maintain marriage, and the matter should not be externally forced through a criminal code.”
宪法法院的废止之举反映了韩国从推崇传统亚洲价值观到尊重个人权利与自由的转变。这一投票以7比2通过。多数意见书中写道，“应该由人们的自由意志和爱来决定是否要维持婚姻，这件事不应根据刑事法规而遭到外部的强制干涉。”
Though the decriminalization of adultery is a step forward for personal rights, most of the South Korean public does not see it that way. One poll conducted after the verdict by the newspaper Chosun Ilbo found that almost 65 percent of respondents were against the judgment. Another poll last year found that 60 percent supported the criminalization of adultery.
虽然通奸非罪化是个人权益的一项进步，但多数韩国民众并不这么看。裁决公布后，《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)进行的一次民意调查结果显示，近65%的应答者反对这一裁决。去年的另一项民调则发现，60%的人支持将通奸列为刑事犯罪。
The law continued to have so much support and persisted for so long because South Korea is still a deeply conservative country. Its backers liked to think it kept traditional family life intact by discouraging divorce through reining in the desires of wayward men. But the law only calcified women’s inferior standing.
这项法律之所以有如此高的支持度，又延续了这么长的时间，是因为韩国还是一个非常保守的国家。支持者一厢情愿地认为，它能压制不忠男性的欲望，减少离婚，从而保持传统家庭生活方式不变。但实际上，它不过是固化了女性的低下地位。
Adultery was criminalized in 1953 to protect women at a time when they had a much lower status than men and were mostly confined to domestic roles. Opportunities to enter the work force were extremely limited, and most women were economically dependent on their husbands, who in the 1950s could easily get divorced and remarry with no stigma. Back then, divorced South Korean women were seen as disgraced; finding employment and remarrying were very difficult.
韩国于1953年将通奸定为刑事犯罪是为了保护女性。当时，女性的地位与男性相差悬殊，基本上被限定在家庭角色当中。进入职场的机会极其有限，多数女性经济上要依赖丈夫。上世纪50年代，男性可以轻易离婚再娶，不会背负任何污名。而离过婚的韩国女性却被认为是可耻的；找工作和再嫁都非常困难。
The adultery law was seen as a safeguard for women against divorce. It empowered women because they could hold the threat of legal action over philandering husbands. It was a tool to keep their men from divorcing them.
这条关于通奸的法规被看做是保护女性不被丈夫抛弃的一道屏障。它让女性变得更强大了，因为她们可以威胁拿法律来制裁沾花惹草的丈夫。它是阻止男性提出离婚的工具。
Yet that power only got them so far. Sure, women might be able to prevent a cheating spouse from divorcing them, and thus avoid the social disgrace and harsh economic reality that came with the separation. But they still had to live with an undesirable husband — and sometimes they would do so for decades. The stigma attached to divorced women remained.
然而，女性获得的力量也仅限于此。的确，女性能够阻止不忠的配偶与自己离婚了，也因此避免了被抛弃带来的污名和艰苦的经济现实。但她们仍然不得不与没有感情的丈夫生活在一起——有时甚至要这样过上几十年。离婚女性身上带着的羞耻烙印仍然挥之不去。
Real social reform would go beyond the adultery law and address the sexism that permeates South Korean society. Instead of lamenting the loss of an outdated adultery law, we should be fighting for full equality for women.
真正的社会改革应该不仅限于通奸是否违法，而是要应对韩国社会严重的性别歧视问题。我们不要哀叹一条过时的通奸法规遭到取缔，而是应该为女性获得充分的平等而抗争。
Women still have far fewer opportunities for social advancement than men: There are entire sectors of the economy completely absent of women. Women who do enter major companies usually face a low glass ceiling. In 2013 the average salary for women was almost 40 percent lower than the average salary for men. And although the president of South Korea is a woman, only 16 percent of members of Parliament are female.
女性在社会中的上升机会依然远少于男性：一些经济领域根本看不到女性的身影。就算是进入了大公司的女性，也常常面临着低矮的玻璃天花板。2013年的女性平均工资比男性低了近40%。而且，尽管韩国的现任总统是女人，但只有16%的议员是女性。
Employers need to abandon the prejudice they have against hiring young women for fear they will get pregnant. Anti-discrimination laws should be put in place so that companies discontinue sexist hiring practices. Simultaneously, in order to alter the conservative male-oriented work culture, popular forms of media should focus on providing more examples of independent, successful women. Right now, women in fiction are almost always portrayed within the sphere of domestic space, completely dependent on men.
雇主需要放弃因为害怕年轻女性会怀孕而不愿招聘她们的偏见。我们应该出台反歧视法规，让企业停止含性别歧视意味的招聘做法。与此同时，为了改变以男性为主导的保守职场文化，颇受欢迎的媒体平台应该把注意力集中在提供更多独立成功女性的例子上。目前，虚构作品中对女性的描绘通常限定在家庭范围内，完全依附于男性。
There is a fear in South Korea that without the law, adultery will become more common and the population will become hypersexualized. Yet for all the wishful thinking of conservatives, the realities of the modern world have been intervening for some time: South Korea’s divorce rate has skyrocketed in the last 15 years and is now among the highest in Asia.
韩国存在一种担忧之情，怕没有了法律，通奸会变得更普遍，民众会变得超级淫荡。然而，尽管保守派抱有种种一厢情愿的想法，现代世界的现实却早已渗透进来一段时间了：过去15年里韩国离婚率飞涨，如今在亚洲国家中排名靠前。
Ok So-ri might stage a comeback, but traditionalists have little to worry about. As long as women are second-class citizens, as long as they face inequality in the workplace, they will continue to fulfill traditional roles within the family. It’s not as if they have much of a choice.
玉素利可能会复出，但因循守旧者没什么可担心的。只要女性还是二等公民，还要面临职场的不平等，她们就会继续承担在家庭内部的传统角色。不要假装她们有很多选择。