CONDOLEEZZA RICE trained to be a concert pianist. Alan Greenspan, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, was a professional clarinet and saxophone player. The hedge fund billionaire Bruce Kovner is a pianist who took classes at Juilliard.
康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)受过古典钢琴的正统训练。前美联储(Federal Reserve)主席艾伦·格林斯潘(Alan Greenspan)曾是一名专业的单簧管和萨克斯管演奏家。对冲基金亿万富翁布鲁斯·科夫纳(Bruce Kovner)是一名曾在茱莉亚音乐学院(Juilliard)学习的钢琴家。
Multiple studies link music study to academic achievement. But what is it about serious music training that seems to correlate with outsize success in other fields?
很多研究都把音乐学习与学术成就联系在了一起。但是，正规的音乐训练究竟与其他领域的巨大成功有何种联系呢？
The connection isn’t a coincidence. I know because I asked. I put the question to top-flight professionals in industries from tech to finance to media, all of whom had serious (if often little-known) past lives as musicians. Almost all made a connection between their music training and their professional achievements.
这种联系并非偶然。我敢这么说是因为我问过人。我向从科技、金融到媒体等各领域的一流从业人员提出了这个问题，这些人过去都曾是正经的音乐家（虽然往往鲜为人知）。几乎所有人都认为他们在音乐方面接受的训练与他们的职业成就有关。
The phenomenon extends beyond the math-music association. Strikingly, many high achievers told me music opened up the pathways to creative thinking. And their experiences suggest that music training sharpens other qualities: Collaboration. The ability to listen. A way of thinking that weaves together disparate ideas. The power to focus on the present and the future simultaneously.
这种现象并不局限于数学与音乐之间的联系。引人注意的是，很多颇有成就的人都告诉我，音乐能开启他们的创造性思维。他们的经历表明，音乐训练有助于增强其他优点：协作。倾听。将不相干的想法结合在一起的思维方式。着眼于现在和未来的能力。
Will your school music program turn your kid into a Paul Allen, the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft (guitar)? Or a Woody Allen (clarinet)? Probably not. These are singular achievers. But the way these and other visionaries I spoke to process music is intriguing. As is the way many of them apply music’s lessons of focus and discipline into new ways of thinking and communicating — even problem solving.
那么，学校里的音乐课能否把你的孩子变成另一个微软(Microsoft)联合创始人、亿万富翁保罗·阿伦（Paul Allen，吉他）或者伍迪·艾伦（Woody Allen，单簧管）呢？或许不能。这些人的成就是非同一般的。但是我发现，这些人以及其他与我谈过话的一些有着远见卓识的人，对待音乐的方式都十分有趣。他们中的很多人都会将音乐课上学到的专注力和纪律性，应用到新的思考、交流甚至是解决问题的方法中。
Look carefully and you’ll find musicians at the top of almost any industry. Woody Allen performs weekly with a jazz band. The television broadcaster Paula Zahn (cello) and the NBC chief White House correspondent Chuck Todd (French horn) attended college on music scholarships; NBC’s Andrea Mitchell trained to become a professional violinist. Both Microsoft’s Mr. Allen and the venture capitalist Roger McNamee have rock bands. Larry Page, a co-founder of Google, played saxophone in high school. Steven Spielberg is a clarinetist and son of a pianist. The former World Bank president James D. Wolfensohn has played cello at Carnegie Hall.
仔细观察就能发现，在几乎所有行业的顶尖人群中都有音乐家的身影。伍迪·艾伦每周都会和一个爵士乐队一同演奏。电视节目主持人葆拉·扎恩（Paula Zahn，大提琴）和NBC驻白宫首席记者查克·托德（Chuck Todd，圆号）念大学时拿的是音乐类奖学金；NBC的安德烈亚·米切尔(Andrea Mitchell)受过专业的小提琴训练。微软的阿伦和风险投资家罗杰·麦克纳米(Roger McNamee)都有自己的摇滚乐队。谷歌(Google)的联合创始人拉里·佩奇(Larry Page)上高中时演奏过萨克斯管。史蒂文·斯皮尔伯格(Steven Spielberg)会吹奏单簧管，他还是一位钢琴家之子。前世界银行(World Bank)行长詹姆斯·D·沃尔芬森(James D. Wolfensohn)曾在卡内基音乐厅(Carnegie Hall)演奏大提琴。
“It’s not a coincidence,” says Mr. Greenspan, who gave up jazz clarinet but still dabbles at the baby grand in his living room. “I can tell you as a statistician, the probability that that is mere chance is extremely small.” The cautious former Fed chief adds, “That’s all that you can judge about the facts. The crucial question is: why does that connection exist?”
“这不是偶然，”格林斯潘说。他虽然放弃了爵士单簧管，但仍然会玩玩客厅里的小三角钢琴。“作为一名统计师，我可以告诉你，这种现象纯属偶然的可能性非常小。”这位谨慎的前美联储主席还说，“这就是你能根据这些事实做出的结论。关键问题是：为什么会存在这种联系？”
Paul Allen offers an answer. He says music “reinforces your confidence in the ability to create.” Mr. Allen began playing the violin at age 7 and switched to the guitar as a teenager. Even in the early days of Microsoft, he would pick up his guitar at the end of marathon days of programming. The music was the emotional analog to his day job, with each channeling a different type of creative impulse. In both, he says, “something is pushing you to look beyond what currently exists and express yourself in a new way.”
保罗·阿伦提供了一种见解。他说，音乐“能强化你在创造力方面的信心”。阿伦从七岁开始学习小提琴，少年时代又开始弹奏吉他。甚至早年在微软的时候，他还会在长时间的编程后拿起吉他。音乐是对他正职工作的情感类比，这两种工作能表达他不同的创造冲动。他说，编程和演奏“都有一些东西在促使你超越现实局限，用一种新的方式来表达自己”。
Mr. Todd says there is a connection between years of practice and competition and what he calls the “drive for perfection.” The veteran advertising executive Steve Hayden credits his background as a cellist for his most famous work, the Apple “1984” commercial depicting rebellion against a dictator. “I was thinking of Stravinsky when I came up with that idea,” he says. He adds that his cello performance background helps him work collaboratively: “Ensemble playing trains you, quite literally, to play well with others, to know when to solo and when to follow.”
托德说，在多年的训练与比赛跟他所谓的“对完美的追求”是存在联系的。广告行业的资深管理人士史蒂文·海登(Steve Hayden)认为自己最著名的作品——苹果公司(Apple)的广告《1984》——应该归功于自己大提琴手的背景；这个广告描绘了对独裁者的反抗。“提出那个想法的时候，我想到了斯特拉文斯基(Stravinsky)，”他说。他还表示，大提琴演出的经历还使他懂得了如何协作：“集体表演真的能锻炼你与别人合作的能力，让你知道何时该独奏，何时该合奏。”
For many of the high achievers I spoke with, music functions as a “hidden language,” as Mr. Wolfensohn calls it, one that enhances the ability to connect disparate or even contradictory ideas. When he ran the World Bank, Mr. Wolfensohn traveled to more than 100 countries, often taking in local performances (and occasionally joining in on a borrowed cello), which helped him understand “the culture of people, as distinct from their balance sheet.”
对于与我交流过的很多颇有成就的人来说，音乐是一种“隐藏的语言”——这种说法来自沃尔芬森。这种语言能提高人们将不同的、乃至矛盾的观点联系起来的能力。担任世界银行行长期间，沃尔芬森曾到访100多个国家，他经常会关注当地各种演出（有时还会用借来的大提琴加入演奏），这能帮他理解“人的文化，跟他们的资产负债表是不可同日而语的”。
It’s in that context that the much-discussed connection between math and music resonates most. Both are at heart modes of expression. Bruce Kovner, the founder of the hedge fund Caxton Associates and chairman of the board of Juilliard, says he sees similarities between his piano playing and investing strategy; as he says, both “relate to pattern recognition, and some people extend these paradigms across different senses.”
正是在这种情况下，人们讨论已久的数学与音乐之间的联系才最紧密。这两者其实都是一种表达方式。对冲基金Caxton Associates的创始人、茱莉亚音乐学院董事会主席布鲁斯·科夫纳说，他认为钢琴演奏和投资策略的制定有一些相似之处；他认为，两者都“和模式的识别有关，而一些人会将这些范型推演到不同的感官领域”。
Mr. Kovner and the concert pianist Robert Taub both describe a sort of synesthesia — they perceive patterns in a three-dimensional way. Mr. Taub, who gained fame for his Beethoven recordings and has since founded a music software company, MuseAmi, says that when he performs, he can “visualize all of the notes and their interrelationships,” a skill that translates intellectually into making “multiple connections in multiple spheres.”
科夫纳和古典钢琴演奏家罗伯特·陶布(Robert Taub)都谈及了一种通感——他们都是一种三维的方式进行模式认知的。陶布因他录制的贝多芬(Beethoven)唱片而获得美名，之后创立了一家音乐软件公司MuseAmi，他说在表演的时候，他能够“将所有的音符以及它们之间的关联视觉化”，这种技巧会从智力上转化成“在多重领域建立多重联系”的能力。
For others I spoke to, their passion for music is more notable than their talent. Woody Allen told me bluntly, “I’m not an accomplished musician. I get total traction from the fact that I’m in movies.”
我访问过的人中，有一些对音乐的热爱更甚于他们的才华。伍迪·艾伦坦率地告诉我，“我并不是技艺高超的音乐家。我引人关注完全是因为我所从事的电影创作。”
Mr. Allen sees music as a diversion, unconnected to his day job. He likens himself to “a weekend tennis player who comes in once a week to play. I don’t have a particularly good ear at all or a particularly good sense of timing. In comedy, I’ve got a good instinct for rhythm. In music, I don’t, really.”
艾伦将音乐视为一种消遣，与他的正职工作无关。他将自己比作“一个一星期才打一次网球的周末网球手”，“我的耳朵完全算上不上很好，节奏感也一般。在喜剧中，我有很好的节奏直觉。在音乐上，我不行，真的。”
Still, he practices the clarinet at least half an hour every day, because wind players will lose their embouchure (mouth position) if they don’t: “If you want to play at all you have to practice. I have to practice every single day to be as bad as I am.” He performs regularly, even touring internationally with his New Orleans jazz band. “I never thought I would be playing in concert halls of the world to 5,000, 6,000 people,” he says. “I will say, quite unexpectedly, it enriched my life tremendously.”
但他每天还是会至少花半小时时间练习单簧管，因为演奏管乐器的人如果不练习就会失去口型：“如果你还想继续演奏就得练习。我这个烂水平也是要每天练习才能保证的。”艾伦会定期演出，甚至和他的新奥尔良爵士乐队到世界各地进行巡回表演。“我从没想到自己能在世界各地的音乐厅里，面对五、六千观众演奏，”他说。“我要说，很意想不到的是，它极大地丰富了我的生活。”
Music provides balance, explains Mr. Wolfensohn, who began cello lessons as an adult. “You aren’t trying to win any races or be the leader of this or the leader of that. You’re enjoying it because of the satisfaction and joy you get out of music, which is totally unrelated to your professional status.”
沃尔芬森解释道，音乐会带来平衡，他是成年以后才开始上大提琴课的。“你练习乐器并不是为了得奖，或者要成为这里、那里的领袖。你在享受音乐是因为它从音乐里得到满足和愉悦，而这是与你的职业地位完全不相干的。”
For Roger McNamee, whose Elevation Partners is perhaps best known for its early investment in Facebook, “music and technology have converged,” he says. He became expert on Facebook by using it to promote his band, Moonalice, and now is focusing on video by live-streaming its concerts. He says musicians and top professionals share “the almost desperate need to dive deep.” This capacity to obsess seems to unite top performers in music and other fields.
对罗杰·麦克纳米来说，他的Elevation Partners最为人所知的恐怕是早期对Facebook的投资，“音乐和科技已汇聚在一起，”他说。他用Facebook推广他的乐队Moonalice，由此成为了Facebook专家，如今他专注于以视频形式在线直播乐队的演唱会。他认为，音乐家与顶尖专业人士的共同点是，“都有一种迫切想要深挖的渴求。”出色的音乐家和其他领域的成功人士，似乎都具有这种容易痴迷的能力。
Ms. Zahn remembers spending up to four hours a day “holed up in cramped practice rooms trying to master a phrase” on her cello. Mr. Todd, now 41, recounted in detail the solo audition at age 17 when he got the second-highest mark rather than the highest mark — though he still was principal horn in Florida’s All-State Orchestra.
扎恩记得自己曾经每天花四个小时，抱着她的大提琴“在一间狭小的练习室里试图掌握一段乐句”。现年41岁的托德详细描述了他17岁参加独奏面试时的情景，那一次他取得了第二名的成绩，而不是第一——不过他还是成为了佛罗里达州全州交响乐团(All-State Orchestra)的首席圆号手。
“I’ve always believed the reason I’ve gotten ahead is by outworking other people,” he says. It’s a skill learned by “playing that solo one more time, working on that one little section one more time,” and it translates into “working on something over and over again, or double-checking or triple-checking.” He adds, “There’s nothing like music to teach you that eventually if you work hard enough, it does get better. You see the results.”
“我一直相信，我之所以能够成功是因为我比别人努力，”他说。这种技能来自“把那段独奏再吹一遍，把那一小段再练习一遍”，这会转化成“针对某事反复研究，或者复查，又再查”的习惯。他补充说，“没有什么能像音乐那样教会你这个道理，如果你够努力，总有一天会进步。你会看到结果。”
That’s an observation worth remembering at a time when music as a serious pursuit — and music education — is in decline in this country.
当我们这个国家对音乐的认真追求——以及音乐教育——正走向衰落之时，这种观察值得我们牢记在心。
Consider the qualities these high achievers say music has sharpened: collaboration, creativity, discipline and the capacity to reconcile conflicting ideas. All are qualities notably absent from public life. Music may not make you a genius, or rich, or even a better person. But it helps train you to think differently, to process different points of view — and most important, to take pleasure in listening.
这些卓有成就者认为，音乐会为人们提升以下的品质：协作、创意、纪律以及协调意见冲突的能力。这些都是公众生活所特别欠缺的。音乐未必会让你成为天才、富翁，甚至不一定能让你成为更优秀的人。但它帮助训练你以不同的方式思考，尝试不同的视角，最重要的是，享受倾听。