Federal safety regulators fined General Motors $28,000 on Tuesday, saying it had not provided much of the information requested for an investigation into a recall of about 2.6 million cars with an ignition switch defect that G.M. has linked to 13 deaths.
周二，联邦安全监管机构对通用汽车(General Motors)处以2.8万美元（约合17.3万元人民币）的罚款，称该公司没有提供有关汽车召回事件的调查所需的信息。通用召回了大约260万辆点火开关存在缺陷的汽车，这一缺陷与13人的死亡存在关联。
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration on March 4 demanded answers to 107 questions related to why G.M. waited until February to start recalling the cars, even though it had been alerted to the problem as early as 2001. The cars contain a faulty ignition switch that is prone to turn off while driving, shutting off the engine and disabling the air bags.
美国国家公路交通安全局（National Highway Traffic Safety Administration，简称NHTSA）于3月4日要求通用公司回答107个相关问题——通用公司早在2001年就注意到这个问题，为何直到今年2月才开始召回汽车。这些汽车的点火开关存在问题，容易在驾驶、关闭引擎和气囊时熄灭。
The deadline for that information was April 3.
提供信息的截止日期是4月3日。
The agency fined General Motors $7,000 for each day it did not provide the information, the maximum allowed, with the current total being $28,000.
通用公司未能提供相关信息，该机构对通用公司处以最高额罚款——每天7000美元，目前罚款总额达到2.8万美元。
“This penalty will continue to accrue by $7,000 for each additional day,” the agency told G.M. in a letter.
该机构在寄给通用公司的信中写道，“罚款会不断累积，每拖一天增加7000美元。”
The $7,000 maximum penalty has been in effect since November 2012, when it was increased from $6,000 to account for inflation.
2012年11月，鉴于通货膨胀，罚款上限从6000美元增至7000美元，并自此开始生效。
Unless the automaker provides the information immediately, the agency said it might refer the matter to the Justice Department for a civil action to “compel” compliance.
该监管机构称，如果通用公司不立即提供信息，它可能会将该事件移交给司法部(Justice Department)，提起民事诉讼，“迫使”通用公司遵照要求行事。
The company defended its response.
通用公司为自己的回应进行了辩解。
“General Motors has produced nearly 21,000 documents totaling over 271,000 pages through a production process that spans a decade and over five million documents from 75 individual custodians and additional sources,” Greg A. Martin, a company spokesman, wrote by email.
通用汽车公司发言人格雷格·马丁(Greg Martin)在邮件中写道，“通用汽车在10年的生产过程中，出示了大约2.1万份、总共逾27.1万页的文件，还有75名个体监管人员及其他来源提供的逾500万份文件。”
Mr. Martin said G.M. had “fully cooperated with the agency to help it have a full understanding of the facts.”
马丁称，通用公司已经“全力配合该机构，帮助该机构全面了解事实”。
The safety agency said in its letter that “G.M. did not respond to over a third of the requests” and also failed “to answer under oath as required.”
该安全机构在信中写道，“通用公司未能对超过三分之一的要求做出回应”，也没有“按照要求如实回答问题”。
The agency said that it had agreed to give G.M. additional time to answer some technical questions but that there were many other questions that the automaker should have answered by the deadline.
该机构称同意给予通用公司更多时间回答一些技术问题，但还有很多问题是该汽车制造商应该在截止日期前回答的。
For example, the agency said it wanted to know if G.M. had changed the design of the switch at any time other than in 2006. “It is deeply troubling that two months after recalling the vehicles G.M. is unwilling or unable to tell N.H.T.S.A. whether the design of the switch changed at any other time,” the agency said.
例如，该机构称，它想知道通用公司是否在除2006年以外的时间，更改过点火开关的设计。该机构表示，“在召回汽车两个月后，通用汽车不愿或无法告诉NHTSA，该公司是否在其他时间更改过点火开关的设计，这让人非常困惑。”
It also said that G.M. had said it did not fully respond because of its internal investigation into the issue. But such an investigation “is irrelevant to G.M.’s legal obligation to timely respond,” the agency said.
NHTSA还称，通用公司曾表示该公司没有做出充分回应，是因为公司正在对这一问题进行内部调查。但该机构表示，此类调查“与通用应该及时回应的法律责任无关”。
Mr. Martin said that the investigation mentioned in the letter was looking for information the agency wanted.
马丁表示，信中提及的调查旨在寻找NHTSA希望获得的信息。