Federal prosecutors are poised to settle a criminal investigation into General Motors, according to people briefed on the matter, accusing the automaker of failing to disclose a safety defect tied to at least 124 deaths. The case, which the prosecutors plan to unveil on Thursday, would cap a wide-ranging investigation that tainted the automaker’s reputation for quality and safety and damaged its bottom line.
知情人士透露，美国联邦检察官准备就一宗针对通用汽车公司(General Motors)的刑事调查进行和解。检方指控通用汽车，因未能披露一个安全缺陷，导致至少124人死亡。检察官计划于本周四公布这宗案件的详情。对该案开展的广泛调查，不仅损害了通用在质量和安全性上的声誉，也令其利润蒙受了损失。
The prosecutors will impose a penalty of nearly $1 billion on G.M., according to people briefed on the matter who spoke on the condition of anonymity, but they are not expected to include charges against individual G.M. employees.
几位要求匿名的知情人士透露，检察官将对通用开出将近10亿美元的罚单，但他们不会指控通用公司的个别员工。
And although the penalty will stain General Motors’ reputation, the punishment from prosecutors fell short of a record for the auto industry. The size of the penalty, one of the people said, reflected a benefit that G.M. earned because of its cooperation in the investigation.
虽然处罚会损害通用的名誉，但检方开出的罚单低于汽车产业的罚款记录。其中一名知情者表示，处罚的力度体现出，通用公司因为配合调查而获得了一些优待。
In recent months, some G.M. officials expected that the company would pay more than the $1.2 billion paid last year by Toyota for concealing unintended acceleration problems in its vehicles. The company also faced the possibility that it would have to plead guilty to a crime.
近几个月来，通用的一些高管预计，罚款金额会超过去年丰田(Toyota)因为隐瞒几款车型意外加速的问题而缴纳的12亿美元罚款。该公司还可能需要服罪。
Instead, G.M. has agreed to sign a so-called deferred-prosecution agreement, the people said, a deal that effectively amounts to probation for corporations.
知情人士表示，通用转而同意签署所谓的暂缓起诉协议。这种协议实际上相当于对公司的缓刑。
Notably, G.M. employees are also expected to avoid indictment, though the investigation will most likely continue, according to the people briefed on the matter. After more than a yearlong inquiry into the defect — which involved faulty ignition switches that could unexpectedly turn off, cutting the engine and disabling airbags — federal prosecutors in Manhattan and the Federal Bureau of Investigation struggled to pin criminal wrongdoing on any one G.M. employee. They concluded instead that the problems stemmed from a collective failure by the automaker.
据知情人士透露，值得注意的是，通用公司的员工也将免遭起诉，不过调查很可能会继续进行。调查涉及的问题是，存在故障的点火开关会突然关闭，进而关闭引擎、禁用安全气囊。在调查持续了一年多之后，曼哈顿的联邦检察官及联邦调查局(Federal Bureau of Investigation)难以将刑事犯罪情节归罪于通用汽车的任何一名员工。他们断定，问题源于这家汽车制造商的集体失误。
The settlement illustrates the limitations of new Justice Department rules that emphasize criminal charges against corporate employees. That initiative, announced last week in a memo to federal prosecutors across the country, represented a tacit acknowledgment of criticism that prosecutors have secured record fines from big banks and corporations, but few indictments of their employees.
司法部上周向全国各地的检察官发出了一份备忘录，其中宣布了一项提议，要求检察官重视对企业员工的刑事指控。然而此次的和解方案突显出，司法部的新规定也存在局限。此前有民众批评，检察官对大型银行和企业处以创纪录的巨额罚款，但却很少对其员工提起诉讼。新规定意味着对这种批评的默认。
“If a corporation plays nice and agrees to the terms, then the government gets some nice money, and the victims are just left in the dust,” said Susan Averill, the daughter-in-law of Jean Averill, who was killed in a 2003 crash of a Saturn Ion at the age of 81. Hers was the earliest fatality G.M. connected with the ignition defect. “It doesn’t seem right to me.”
琼·埃夫里尔(Jean Averill)在2003年土星Ion汽车的一场事故中死亡，时年81岁。这是通用汽车因点火故障造成的最早的一起死亡事故。她的儿媳苏珊·埃夫里尔(Susan Averill)表示，“如果公司态度良好，接受罚款，然后政府拿到一大笔钱，受害者就会被遗弃。”她表示，“我觉得这不对。”
The new Justice Department policy — which states that companies can no longer obtain credit for cooperating with the government unless they identify employees and turn over evidence against them — does not apply to the G.M. case. Sally Q. Yates, the deputy attorney general and the author of the memo, said in an interview last week that the changes would affect ongoing cases only to the extent that it was “practicable.”
司法部的新政策规定，企业不能再通过与政府合作而获得好处，除非它们指认员工，并提交相关证据。这些政策并没有应用于通用的案件。司法部副部长、备忘录作者莎莉·奎利安·耶茨(Sally Quillian Yates)上周接受采访时表示，这些变动对正在调查的案件影响有限，影响程度取决于“可操作性”。
“We’re not going to renege on verbal agreements,” she said.
她说，“我们不会违背口头协议。”
And in many ways, the new rules codify practices that were already in place at certain United States attorneys offices, including the office in Manhattan, which led the G.M. investigation. As such, the prosecutors most likely followed practices that mirror Ms. Yates’s memo when investigating the G.M. case.
而且在很多方面，新规定是将美国一些联邦检察官办公室既有的实践，整理成了条文，其中包括负责通用案件调查工作的曼哈顿联邦检察官办公室。因此，检察官们在调查通用案件时，很有可能已经遵循了耶茨在备忘录提到的做法。
The stumbling block to charging G.M. employees stemmed from a lack of evidence and a high legal burden, according to the people briefed on the matter. The wire fraud statute, which is typically used to prosecute auto cases, requires prosecutors to prove that someone intended to defraud, not just that the conduct was deceptive.
据知情人士透露，阻碍指控通用员工的因素在于缺少证据，以及很高的举证责任。通常用于提起汽车诉讼案的电信欺诈法，要求检方证明某人有欺诈意图，而不仅仅需要证明这是欺诈行为。