DETROIT — The deeper General Motors digs into its vast portfolio of vehicles, the more safety problems it finds.
底特律——越深入调查自己旗下种类繁多的汽车产品，通用汽车公司(General Motors)发现的安全问题就越多。
The announcement on Monday that G.M. would recall another 8.4 million cars and trucks for a range of defects appears to be a direct result of the company’s newfound vigilance to rooting out safety issues.
该公司周一宣布，因为一系列缺陷，将再召回840万辆轿车和卡车。此举的直接原因似乎在于，该公司为根除安全问题而新萌生出的警觉。
But even as G.M. addresses its safety shortcomings with a beefed-up roster of product investigators, the spiraling number of new recalls — G.M. has surpassed 29 million worldwide this year — is threatening to undermine the company’s reputation for quality.
但在通用汽车通过增加产品调查人员来应对安全缺陷时，急剧增多的新召回车辆，却可能损害该公司在质量上的声誉——通用今年在世界范围内召回的车辆已经超过了2900万辆。
“We’re hitting unprecedented numbers and it’s reasonable for people to start asking, When and where will it end?” said Karl Brauer, an analyst with the research firm Kelley Blue Book.
“我们召回车辆的数量达到了史无前例的水平，人们有理由开始问，何时何地才是头？”调研公司凯利蓝皮书(Kelley Blue Book)的分析师卡尔·布劳尔(Karl Brauer)说。
The vast majority of this year’s recalls for G.M. have come after the company admitted in February that it failed for years to address a deadly defect in the Chevrolet Cobalt and other small cars.
通用汽车今年2月承认，该公司多年来一直未能解决雪佛兰(Chevrolet)的Cobalt车型，以及其他小型车上的一个致命缺陷。通用今年的绝大部分召回都发生在那以后。
Yet while G.M. is now issuing recalls almost every week, the unsettling reality is that the company might never have discovered some of the defects without the Cobalt crisis.
然而，尽管通用汽车眼下几乎每周都在宣布召回，一个令人不安的现实是，如果不是Cobalt车型引发的危机，该公司或许永远都不会发现其中的某些缺陷。
Among the vehicles recalled on Monday are 8.2 million cars that have faulty ignition systems that could suddenly cause the vehicles to lose power.
周一宣布召回的车辆中，包括820万辆点火系统有问题的汽车。这种问题可能突然导致车辆失去动力。
That was essentially the problem with 2.6 million recalled Cobalts and other cars linked to 13 deaths and 54 accidents. Defective ignitions have also forced the recalls in June of 3.4 million midsize cars and more than 500,000 Camaros.
从本质上来说，这也是那260万辆被召回的Cobalt车型和其他车辆存在的问题，这个问题与13人的死亡及54起事故有关。点火开关缺陷还迫使该公司在6月召回了340万辆中型车和超过50万辆Camaro车型。
And the problem is not isolated to G.M. cars. Chrysler on Monday said it, too, would recall 696,000 sport utility vehicles and minivans made between 2007 and 2009 over a concern that the ignition key might turn off the engine. The move came after federal safety regulators said in June that they were conducting a review of all the major automakers for ignition-switch problems.
而且这个问题并不仅限于通用的汽车。克莱斯勒(Chrysler)周一宣布，因为担心点火开关钥匙可能关闭发动机，将召回2007年到2009年间制造的69.6万辆运动型多功能车(SUV)和小面包车。此前，联邦安全监管人员6月表示，他们正在对所有大型汽车制造商进行检查，以确定点火开关是否存在问题。
G.M.’s chief executive, Mary T. Barra, said Monday’s recalls were part of “the most comprehensive safety review in the history of our company.”
通用汽车首席执行官玛丽·T·芭拉(Mary T. Barra)表示，周一宣布的召回是“本公司史上最全面的安全检查”的一部分。
A company spokesman said the recalls were not being done in any particular order, but rather were ordered as soon as the relevant data was discovered. “When it was clear there was an issue, we acted,” said James Cain, the G.M. spokesman.
该公司的一名发言人称，召回没有任何特定顺序，而是一旦发现相关数据，公司就会下令召回。“当确定有问题时，我们就采取了行动，”通用汽车发言人詹姆斯·凯恩(James Cain)说。
The Cobalt crisis and G.M.’s subsequent internal investigation shed light on years of lax safety practices. Fifteen employees have been dismissed for their roles in allowing the original ignition defect to go unrepaired for more than a decade, and regulators imposed a $35 million penalty for failing to report the problem in a timely manner.
Cobalt车型危机，以及通用汽车随后进行的内部调查，揭露了多年来松懈的安全措施。因为在10多年里坐视最初的点火开关问题，却没进行修复，已有15名员工被解雇，监管部门对公司处以3500万美元（约合2亿元人民币）的罚款，理由是公司未及时上报有关问题。
In years past, G.M. usually issued recalls at a comparable rate to its competitors. But the long delay in fixing faulty ignitions in the Cobalt showed that the company avoided action in that case by viewing stalling problems as a customer convenience issue instead of a safety one.
过去数年间，通用汽车所发布的召回令与其竞争者相差无几。但迟迟不修复雪佛兰Cobalt点火开关问题的现象表明，公司之所以拒绝对此采取行动，是因为它认为这些一直存在的问题，只是会给顾客带来不便，而不是安全隐患。
Even as she has admitted to incompetence and neglect at the company, Ms. Barra has repeatedly denied assertions by lawmakers and safety advocates that G.M. had a repeated pattern of deliberately ignoring safety issues.
虽然巴拉承认自己的公司内部存在失职和疏忽，但她一再否认议员和安全倡议者的说法。后者指责，通用汽车反复出现蓄意忽视安全问题的情况。
But since the Cobalt scandal has unfolded, the company has adopted a far more rigorous assessment process, including assigning a new vice president, Jeff Boyer, to oversee all safety activities within G.M.
然而，自从Cobalt丑闻曝光以来，公司采取了更加严格的检测程序。其间，公司还任命了新副总裁杰夫·博耶尔(Jeff Boyer)来负责公司内部的所有安全工作。
“We have worked aggressively to identify and address the major outstanding issues that could impact the safety of our customers,” Ms. Barra said.
巴拉说，“为了查出可能对用户安全造成影响的尚未解决的重大问题，并予以应对，我们展开了积极的工作。”
Monday’s safety actions were a microcosm of the deluge of recalls that G.M. had done since the first ignition switch recalls in February.
通用自今年2月第一次因为点火开关问题召回汽车以来，进行了大规模的召回。周一的安全行动只是这种举动的一个缩影。
G.M. announced six recalls in total on Monday. Two were for 8.2 million cars with safety problems described as “unintended ignition key rotation.” G.M. said three people had died in those cars but could not tie them to the defect. The vehicles covered included the Chevrolet Malibu, model years 1997-2005; Oldsmobile Intrigue, 1998-2002; Oldsmobile Alero, 1999-2004; Pontiac Grand Am, 1999-2005; Chevrolet Impala and Monte Carlo, 2000-5; Pontiac Grand Prix, 2004-8; Cadillac CTS, 2003-2014; and Cadillac SRX, 2004-6.
周一，通用共宣布了六项召回。其中两项涉及存在“点火钥匙意外转动”问题的820万辆汽车。通用表示，这些车型发生的事故已造成三人死亡，但目前还不能证明事故与这个缺陷有因果关系。其他相关车型有：1997年至2005年款雪佛兰迈锐宝(Malibu)；1998年至2002年款奥兹莫比尔Intrigue；1999年至2004年款奥兹莫比尔Alero；1999年至2005年款庞蒂克Grand Am；2000年至2005年款雪佛兰Impala和Monte Carlo；2004年至2008年款庞蒂克Grand Prix；2003年至2014年款凯迪拉克 CTS；2004年至2006年款凯迪拉克SRX。
Mr. Cain said the company would retrofit keys for those models with an insert that has a hole at the end rather than slots on the key. The change will increase the force needed to turn the key, so that it cannot be easily bumped out of position.
凯恩表示，公司将会对这些车型的钥匙进行改造，在底部安装一个有洞的插片，而不是只有钥匙的窄槽。经过改造之后，需要更大的力量才能转动钥匙，所以钥匙在受到碰撞时就不会轻易移动。
Some of the keys may be replaced rather than fixed with an insert, Mr. Cain said. G.M. will also modify the small ring in the vehicle that the key fits into.
凯恩说，有些钥匙可能会被换掉，而不是通过加装插片来解决问题。通用还会对汽车上插入钥匙的小环进行调整。
The solution was an echo of a suggested fix to the Cobalt and other small cars in 2006. Aware of the issue at the time, G.M. sent dealers a notice suggesting that they urge customers to put an insert in the keys to make the hole smaller; a total of 474 owners had the fix made.
这个解决方案回应了2006年提出的一种修理Cobalt及其他小型轿车的建议。当时得知该问题的通用汽车向经销商发布了一项通知，建议他们敦促用户在钥匙上加个插片，好把孔变小；共有474名车主采取了这个方法。
Now, G.M. is taking no such chances.
如今，通用不会再冒这种风险了。