The visionary poet William Blake tumbled into the universe through his infinite grain of sand. For the French painter Bernard Durin, the portal was a beetle.
充满想像力的诗人威廉·布莱克(William Blake)在诗中通过一颗“无限的沙粒”看到整个宇宙。对于法国画家贝尔纳尔·杜林(Bernard Durin)来说，窥看宇宙的门户是一只甲虫。
Durin (1940-88) became smitten with beetles in the summer of 1972 as he tramped the countryside in Provence. His artist’s eye aroused by the galaxies of insect life, he eventually found his necessary models at the National Museum of Natural History in Paris, which gave him access to its trove of preserved insects.
1972年夏，杜林(1940-88)在普罗旺斯的乡间漂泊时迷上了甲虫。昆虫浩如星辰的丰富形态令他那艺术家的慧眼感到一亮，最终，他在巴黎的国家自然史博物馆找到自己需要的模特，馆方也特许他观察博物馆的昆虫藏品。
Connoisseurs of art and bugs are the richer for that good deed. Durin published “Beetles and Other Insects” in 1980; this expanded edition for the first time gathers 60 color plates of all his known watercolor portraits of insects.
从这桩善举中获益的是艺术品与昆虫的鉴赏家，1980年，杜林发表了《甲壳虫与其他昆虫》(Beetles and Other Insects)一书，这次发行的增补版首次收入了60张彩色插图，内容是杜林全部已知的昆虫水彩画作品。
A few were rendered on vellum, but he painted most of them on cardboard. And each full-page, larger-than-life painting is chaperoned by a worker-antlike entomological biography.
其中一部分是绘在羊皮纸上的，但大多数是画在硬纸板上。每张图都占据了整个页面，尺寸大于生活中的正常昆虫，旁边用工蚁般的字迹写着该昆虫的小传。
Of the 1.2 million to 1.5 million species of insects that have been described, about 400,000 are beetles. As the British geneticist J. B. S. Haldane said, “If one could conclude as to the nature of the Creator from a study of his creation, it would appear that God has a special fondness for stars and beetles.”
在书中提到的120万到150万种昆虫中，有40万种是甲虫。正如英国遗传学家J·B·S·哈尔戴恩(J. B. S. Haldane)所说：“如果能从作品去推测创作者的天性，那么你会发现上帝特别偏爱星辰和甲虫。”
And the order Coleoptera couldn’t ask for a better Boswell than Durin. These pages creep and crawl with weevils and chafers, ladybugs and locusts, scarabs and scorpions, and a cavalcade of beetles: dung, stag, longhorn, Hercules (and little Hercules), jewel and harlequin.
鞘翅目昆虫不可能找到比杜林更好的树碑立传者了。书中遍布各种象鼻虫、金龟子、瓢虫、蝗虫、圣甲虫和蝎子，还有一支浩浩荡荡的甲壳虫大军：蜣螂、锹甲虫、长角牛、大力甲虫（以及小大力甲虫）、宝石甲虫和长臂天牛。
Painted with passion and precision, each insect here is a marvel of evolutionary architecture and engineering, but also a wonder of color, texture and detail. I’d forgotten how hairy so many insects are, and the hues and patterns on many of these exoskeletons suggest ancient mosaics or fine Italian tile. These are mere vermin?
书中每张昆虫图都以极大的热忱和精确性绘成，都是进化论建筑学与工程学的奇观，同时也是色彩、质地和细节的奇迹。我还忘了说，许多昆虫图都是毛茸茸的，甲壳上的色彩和纹样让人想起意大利瓷砖拼砌的古代马赛克图案。这些不过是害虫？
There’s the South American dung beetle, an exquisite peacock of a bug, with its bold, black horn and its iridescent blues, greens and oranges. And though it isn’t a beetle, the elegant pipe cleaner, an ichneumon wasp, looks as if it’s preening for its first portrait as a principal ballet dancer. Truly, one man’s pest is another man’s crush.
有一种南美洲蜣螂如同甲虫中的孔雀，有着大胆的黑角和炫目的蓝色、绿色与橘色色调。象鼻清洁虫(elegant pipe cleaner)虽然不是甲虫，而是一种姬蜂，但书中它的第一幅画像仿佛在为自己整理羽毛，如同一位芭蕾舞女主演。真的，有些人觉得这是害虫，有些人却迷恋它们。
But there’s plenty of pinch and prick, too. Durin’s watercolors bristle with a hard-shelled arsenal of horns, thorns and spikes, of teeth, claws and pincers, all complemented by a writhing picket fence of antennas, from humble nubs to ostentatious lariats.
此外还有不少让人疼痛的东西。杜林的水彩画中充斥着坚硬的角和刺，还有尖牙利爪和钳子。所有这些组成一个令人痛苦的触角围栏，从小小的瘤块到华丽的套索应有尽有。
According to the Encyclopedia Smithsonian, Earth is home to about 10 quintillion insects — that’s 19 zeros after the numeral one — meaning that there are more than 200 million for each human on the planet. Makes you feel kind of itchy — and insignificant. But if they were all as striking as Bernard Durin’s paintings of them, that might not be so bad.
根据《史密森尼百科全书》(Encyclopedia Smithsonian)所言，地球上昆虫的数量相当于一百万的三次方再乘十——也就是数字一后面再加19个零。换言之，地球上有一个人类，就有两亿只昆虫。你是不是觉得这听起来令人发麻，还觉得自己无足轻重？但如果它们都像贝尔纳尔·杜林画的那么美，倒也不坏。