HONG KONG — The search for the Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 jet suffered another setback on Thursday when the communications system for an American deep-sea submersible broke down, and the Australian vessel that had been towing it in the Indian Ocean was forced to head back to port.
香港——周四，马来西亚航空公司370航班的搜索工作再次受阻，一个美国深海潜水器的通讯系统出现故障，拖曳该潜水器在印度洋进行搜索的澳大利亚船只也被迫返港。
The Australian ship, the Ocean Shield, had set out from port last Saturday on its second voyage to find the missing Boeing 777. It reached the search area and lowered the submersible, a Bluefin-21, on Wednesday afternoon to resume the task of scanning the dark ocean floor with sonar for possible debris from the aircraft.
澳大利亚舰船“海盾号”(Ocean Shield)于上周六离港，开始第二次搜寻失踪的这架波音777飞机的下落。周三下午，该船抵达搜索区域，并将“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”潜水器(Bluefin-21)放入水中，继续用声呐扫描黑暗的海床，以期找到飞机残骸。
But soon after, the operators of the Bluefin, who were aboard the Ocean Shield, encountered difficulties in communicating with the submersible, according to a statement released on Thursday by the Australian government’s Joint Agency Coordination Center. A series of problems soon began to appear.
但是，澳大利亚联合机构协调中心(Joint Agency Coordination Center)在周四发布的一份声明中称，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”下水后不久，“海盾号”上的潜水器操作人员与潜水器之间的通讯出了问题。此后不久，又出现了一系列问题。
The Bluefin was raised from the depths just two hours after it had been deployed, but was damaged in the process of being recovered from the waves. Specialists aboard the Ocean Shield were able to repair the damage with spare parts on the ship.
下水仅仅两个小时，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”就被人们从海洋深处拉了上来，还在回收的过程中受到了损坏。“海盾号”上的专家用船上的备用零件修好了这个潜水器。
The communications problems, however, proved more intractable. An examination of the equipment showed that the communications transponder aboard the Ocean Shield had a hardware defect, and the transponder aboard the Bluefin might also have a defect, the Australian coordination center said.
然而，事实证明，通讯问题更加棘手。澳大利亚联合机构协调中心称，对这一设备的检测结果显示，“海盾号”上的通讯转发器存在硬件缺陷，“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”上的转发器似也可能存在缺陷。
Spare parts for both transponders have to be flown from Britain to Western Australia, and the Ocean Shield must return to port at Dampier. “The journey is anticipated to take a number of days,” the coordination center’s statement said.
这两个转发器的备用零件都需要从英国空运至西澳大利亚，“海盾号”也必须返回丹皮尔的港口。该协调中心在声明中称，“这个过程预计需要几天的时间。”
Once the Ocean Shield reaches port, it will need to dock so that “engineers can make a full assessment of the transponder repairs.”
到达港口之后，“海盾号”必须进港，这样“工程师才能就转发器的维修进行全面评估。”
The Bluefin-21 is built by Bluefin Robotics, a company based in Quincy, Mass., founded in 1997 by a group of Massachusetts Institute of Technology engineers. Battelle Memorial Institute, a nonprofit research and development group headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, acquired Bluefin Robotics in 2005.
“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”的制造商是马萨诸塞州昆西市的蓝鳍机器人技术公司(Bluefin Robotics)，该公司由麻省理工学院(Massachusetts Institute of Technology)的一群工程师创建于1997年。2005年，总部位于俄亥俄州哥伦比亚的非营利性研发机构巴特尔纪念研究所(Battelle Memorial Institute)收购了蓝鳍机器人技术公司。
The Bluefin-21 aboard the Ocean Shield is operated on a contract for the United States Navy by Phoenix International, an employee-owned company with its operating base in Bayou Vista, La.
“海盾号”上的“蓝鳍金枪鱼-21”由凤凰国际控股有限公司(Phoenix International Holdings)依据与美国海军之间的合同进行操作，凤凰公司是一个员工所有的公司，运营基地位于路易斯安那州的拜尤维斯塔。