Whether you spent the summer cliff-diving on the Amalfi Coast or sweltering in the city, September signifies the social season’s return.
今年夏天，不管你是在阿玛菲海滩悬崖跳水，还是在城市里忍耐酷暑，9月意味着社交季节又回来了。
As the party calendar resets in tandem with the frenzy of New York Fashion Week, an array of new clubs, bars and restaurants inevitably open.
疯狂的纽约时装周很大程度上影响了派对日程，免不了要有一系列新的俱乐部、酒吧和饭馆闪亮登场。
As usual, there are fresh opportunities for club-hoppers and pleasure-seekers who find the bondage of tight velvet ropes exhilarating. But this year, there is also a shift away from cacophonous big-box electronic clubs, and toward casual places where conversation can be heard without lung-reverberating bass drops.
和往常一样，那些爱逛夜店，爱找乐子，一看到拦在新店门口的丝绒绳子就兴奋的人们又有了逛新店的好机会。但是今年，那些吵闹的大型电音俱乐部减少了，更多的新店都是一些随意的场所，人们可以听见彼此间的交谈，用不着忍受穿透心肺的阵阵低音。
After deleting Tinder, you should at least be able to strike up a chat at the bar.
把手机里的Tinder（美国一款交友手机应用——编注）删掉之后，你应该至少可以在酒吧里好好聊个天。
Berlin “We have to keep some sort of sleaze alive,” said Jesse Malin, an owner of this rock bar, now open below 2A, a longstanding East Village dive. Appropriately, it has the feel of a bunker with arching brick ceilings, chandeliers and a stage for performances. “It’s a weekend getaway from the jocks and tourists,” he said.
“柏林”(Berlin)：“我们得保持一点脏乱的感觉，”这家摇滚酒吧的老板杰西·马林(Jesse Malin)说，它开在东村历史悠久的酒吧“2A”地下。这里有拱砖天花板，枝形吊灯和可供表演的舞台，有种地堡的感觉，与周围环境颇为相称。“这里是年轻人和游客周末放松的好地方，”他说。
25 Avenue A (East Second Street)
25 Avenue A (East Second Street)
Mr. Fong’s The latest incursion into deep Chinatown opened in late summer and quickly became a simmering hot pot for artsy types, skaters and thirsty locals. The ownership hydra hails from fashion, art and music, but the modest-size bar maintains unassuming appeal with $5 Tsingtao bottles, reggae bubbling from vinyl records and a welcoming door.
“方先生”(Mr. Fong’s)：夏末时分，这家在唐人街深处的新夜店很快成了文艺人士、滑板玩家和盼着热闹的本地人聚会的热门去处。虽然老板们分别来自时尚、艺术与音乐领域，但这个中等大小的酒吧依旧保持着亲民的魅力，因为它有着5美元的青岛啤酒，黑胶唱机中传出的雷鬼乐和敞开迎客的大门。
40 Market Street (Madison Street)
40 Market Street(Madison Street)
Rumpus Room The Sapphire Lounge, a crusty mainstay of the Lower East Side dance scene, receives a stylish reboot. The face-lift of the 1,600-square-foot space includes prosecco on tap, bamboo walls, a copper bar and bottle service. “The crowd, 20 years ago, was very low-key and diverse,” said Jahan Salarimatin, an owner. “That’s what we’re trying to achieve now.”
“喧闹屋”(Rumpus Room)：蓝宝石酒家(The Sapphire Lounge)原本是下东区舞蹈圈内的中流砥柱，如今迎来时尚的翻新。这个1600平方英尺（1平方英尺约合0.09平米——译注）的空间如今有了随手可得的普罗塞克酒，竹质墙壁、黄铜吧台和整瓶服务。“20年前，这里的人群非常低调与多样化，”老板贾汉·萨拉里马丁(Jahan Salarimatin)说，“这正是我们现在想努力达到的目标。”
249 Eldridge Street (East Houston Street), 212-777-5153, rumpusroomnyc.com. This month.
249 Eldridge Street (East Houston Street), 212-777-5153，rumpusroomnyc.com，本月开业。
Señor Frog’s Times Square may not be the first place for fashion week revelers, but it’s fitting that those nefarious topless buskers have been joined by a spring-break-themed cataclysm. This mind-numbing Mexican chain known for its body shots and foam parties in Cancún, Mexico, and Orlando, Fla., has opened a 21,000-square-foot bar in New York. Sure, queso dips will be served, but the emphasis is on alcohol: frozen margaritas in glasses the size of lava lamps and questionable signage like “Drink till she’s cute.”
“青蛙先生”(Señor Frog’s)：时报广场可能不是时装周狂欢者们的首选去处，但它适合那些参加过春假主题大灾难的糟糕的半裸艺人们。“青蛙先生”这家让人震惊的墨西哥连锁店以在墨西哥坎昆和佛罗里达州奥兰多都有分店，以人体龙舌兰酒和泡沫派对闻名，如今在纽约开了占地2.1平方英尺的分店。当然，这里也有奶酪酱，但最主要的还是酒：冻玛格丽塔酒盛在玻璃杯里，足有熔岩灯那么大，杯子上的字也很成问题：“喝吧，直到她变得漂亮起来。”
11 Times Square (Eighth Avenue and 42nd Street), 212-221-3833, senorfrogs.com/newyork. 
11 Times Square (Eighth Avenue and 42nd Street), 212-221-3833, senorfrogs.com/newyork。
Flash Factory From the owners of Provocateur, the meatpacking-district club synonymous with velvet ropes and black cards, comes a Chelsea club that will skew egalitarian. “There’s no V.I.P.,” said Michael Satsky, an owner. Electronic-music aficionados can simply buy tickets to the 10,000-square-foot space, formerly the Shadow club.
 “闪光工厂”(Flash Factory)：“煽动者”(Provocateur)，是位于肉类加工区的俱乐部，一直坚持凭票入场，对于它的老板们来说，去一个切尔西俱乐部意味着破坏平等主义。“我们这里没有V.I.P.，” “闪光工厂”的老板迈克尔·萨特斯基(Michael Satsky)说。电子乐爱好者可以买票进入这个一万平方英尺的空间，这里原来是“Shadow”俱乐部的所在地。
229 West 28th Street, 212-929-9070, flashfactoryny.com. This fall. 
229 West 28th Street, 212-929-9070,flashfactoryny.com.,今年秋天开业。
Mr. Purple Sprawled on the 15th floor of the Hotel Indigo is the latest offering from the Gerber Group, which runs similar establishments at W hotels. In pursuit of bohemian cachet, the 9,000-square-foot bar and restaurant (including a terrace with a swimming pool) will feature nano-batch spirits and ingredients from the Union Square Greenmarket.
“紫先生”(Mr. Purple)：占据了英迪格酒店(Hotel Indigo)第15层的“紫先生”，是由格伯集团(Gerber Group)最新推出的，该集团也在W酒店开了类似酒吧。这个占地9000平方英尺的酒吧兼餐厅（还有一个带游泳池的平台）会有nano-batch酒和来自联合广场农夫市场的食材。
171 Ludlow Street (East Houston Street), 212-237-1790. Early November.
171 Ludlow Street (East Houston Street), 212-237-1790。11月初开业。
Falcon Laundry Though it sits near Smorgasburg, Falcon Laundry is angling for neighborhood regulars instead of grazing herds. “I want it to be a drinker’s bar, somewhere comfortable and cool that’s not completely overrun,” said Paul Longo, an owner (and former manager at Westway). The two-floor space in Williamsburg will serve cocktails and small plates. Expect understated ambience: exposed brick, black banquettes and industrial bits left from the building’s former life as a steel fabrication mill.
“福尔肯洗衣房”(Falcon Laundry)，尽管这里距离“大杂烩”(Smorgasburg)不远，“福尔肯洗衣房”还是更希望从附近居民中赢得常客，而不是招揽随便来看看的人。“我希望这是给喝酒的人开的酒吧，又舒服，又酷，同时并不夸张，”店主保罗·朗格(Paul Longo)说，他曾是“Westway”的经理。“福尔肯洗衣房”位于威廉斯堡，占地两层，提供鸡尾酒和小菜。这里有着低调的氛围：有着裸砖和黑色长条软座，工业风格装饰是从这座建筑的前身——一座钢铁厂——遗留下来的。
65 North Seventh Street (Wythe Avenue), Brooklyn. Mid-September. 
65 North Seventh Street (Wythe Avenue), 布鲁克林，9月中旬开业。
Nacional Richie Akiva, owner of the flashy discothèques Up & Down and 1 OAK, returns to his roots with a Cuban-themed lounge where Butter, his first spot, stood. “It’s going to be one of the hardest places to get into,” he said. “It’s for the groups that don’t want to be in the bigger nightclubs anymore. I’m getting older, and my crowd is getting older.”
“国家”(Nacional)：里奇·阿凯瓦(Richie Akiva)是华丽的迪斯科酒吧“Up & Down”与“1 OAK”的老板，他回归自己的根源，在自己开的第一家店“Butter”的原址上，开了这家古巴主题酒吧。“它将会是最难融入的地方，”他说，“它是给那些不再想去大夜店的人们预备的。我在变老，来我酒吧的人群也在变老。”
415 Lafayette Street (East Fourth Street). October.
415 Lafayette Street (East Fourth Street)。10月开业。
Sauvage The owners of Maison Premiere, a popular but cramped oyster spot on Bedford Avenue, are opening this French restaurant and bar facing McCarren Park. It will feature a 90-foot storefront with generous outdoor seating, archways and handmade mosaics. “We like restaurants that feel like they’ve been there for a long time,” said Joshua Boissy, an owner. “I don’t like walking into a white box.”
“索维奇”(Sauvage)：“Maison Premiere”是贝德福德街上一家很受欢迎，但又非常拥挤的酒吧，它的老板们开了“索维奇”，它是一个法国饭馆兼酒吧，面向麦克卡伦公园。它将会有90英尺长的店面，拥有大量户外座椅、装饰以拱门和手工马赛克。“我们喜欢那种看上去好像在本地有段历史的饭馆，”老板约书亚·波伊西(Joshua Boissy)说，“我不想走进一个什么都没有的白盒子里去。”
905 Lorimer Street (Nassau Avenue), Brooklyn. Late fall.
905 Lorimer Street (Nassau Avenue)，布鲁克林，秋末开业。