As the world joined Parisians in mourning for the people killed in Friday’s terrorist attacks, the identities of the victims, who included a young lawyer, a music critic and an American college student, slowly began to emerge.
随着世界各地与巴黎人一同为周五晚间恐怖袭击事件遇难者哀悼，遇难者的身份慢慢开始确认，其中包括一名年轻律师、一名乐评人和一名美国学生。
One of the first to be named was a 26-year-old lawyer named Valentin Ribet, who was killed at the Bataclan concert hall, according to his firm, Hogan Lovells. Mr. Ribet, who had degrees from the London School of Economics and the Sorbonne, specialized in white-collar crime cases.
26岁的瓦朗坦·里贝(Valentin Ribet)是霍金路伟( Hogan Lovells)律师所的一名律师，据该事务所透露，第一批确认身份的受害者中包括在巴塔克兰(Bataclan )音乐厅遇难的里贝。里贝在伦敦政治经济学院(London School of Economics)和索邦大学(Sorbonne)取得学位，专攻白领犯罪案件。
“This is an awful tragedy and hard for any of us to truly comprehend,” Hogan Lovells said in a statement. “We are shocked by both our loss and the wider events in the city.”
“这是一个可怕的悲剧，我们任何人都无法真正理解，”霍金路伟律师事务所发表声明称。“我们对我们痛失同事及巴黎发生的大范围事件感到震惊。”
Of Mr. Ribet, the firm said: “He was a talented lawyer, extremely well liked and a wonderful personality in the office.”
至于里贝，该公司表示，“他是一名具有天赋的律师，是办公室里极受欢迎且非常出色的工作人员。”
Throughout the day, families struggled to find information about missing loved ones. They visited hospitals and morgues and turned to social media, posting photographs and messages to Twitter using hashtags like #rechercheParis, or Paris search.
家人们一整天都在努力寻找有关失踪亲人的信息。他们前往医院和停尸房寻找，求助于社交媒体，并在Twitter发起 #巴黎搜寻(#rechercheParis)的话题，上传照片和信息。
Many of the victims appeared to be young people out on a cool autumn night enjoying dinner at a cafe or a concert at one of Paris’s most popular locations. By Saturday, Paris was a different place, with public spaces like museums, schools, libraries and markets shuttered, and the daily rhythms of one of Europe’s most cosmopolitan cities silenced. In addition to the 129 reported dead on Saturday, 352 were injured, 99 seriously, according to the French authorities.
很多遇难者似乎都是在凉爽秋夜外出的年轻人，他们在小餐馆享用晚餐，或者到巴黎最受欢迎的音乐厅欣赏音乐。而到了周六，巴黎变成另外一个地方，博物馆、学校、图书馆、市场等公共场所都已关闭，这个欧洲最具国际性的城市的日常节奏被沉默取代。据法国当局透露，除了周六报告的129名遇难者之外，还有352人受伤，其中99人情况危急。
Several foreigners were killed in the attacks, including victims from Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Sweden and Britain. An American student from California State University in Long Beach named Nohemi Gonzalez, 23, was also killed. Ms. Gonzalez was a junior who was spending a semester at the Strate School of Design in Paris, the university said in a statement. Nearly 80 foreign exchange students from the university are currently studying in France, the statement said.
几名外国人在袭击事件中遇难，其中包括来自西班牙、葡萄牙、比利时、瑞典和英国的受害者。来自加利福尼亚州立大学长滩分校(California State University in Long Beach)的美国学生诺赫米·冈萨雷斯(Nohemi Gonzalez)现年23岁，她也遭袭身亡。该大学发表声明称，冈萨雷斯是一名大三学生，在巴黎斯特拉特设计学院(Strate School of Design)交换一学期。声明称，该大学将近80名外国交换生目前在法国学习。
“She was one of the happiest and the most smiling” people in the group, said Sandra Gorosko, 21, of Estonia, who met Ms. Gonzales when the exchange program began in early September in Paris. “Always super supportive and kind.”
“她是那群人中最开心、最爱笑的人，”来自爱沙尼亚的21岁学生桑德拉·格罗斯科(Sandra Gorosko)说。“总是爱帮助人，非常友善。”她今年9月初在巴黎开始参加交换项目时认识了冈萨雷斯。
Most of the carnage on Friday occurred at the Bataclan, a 150-year-old music hall, where more than 80 people were killed during a sold-out show by the American band Eagles of Death Metal. Guillaume B. Decherf, 43, a critic at a French culture magazine called Les Inrocks, had written about the band for the Oct. 28 issue and attended the concert. A father of two, he was one of those killed, the magazine said. Three employees from Universal Music France also died, the company’s president, Pascal Nègre, wrote on Twitter.
周五的大多数残杀发生在具有150年历史的巴塔克兰音乐厅，美国乐队死亡金属之鹰(Eagles of Death Metal)的演唱会门票早早售空，有80多人在演出期间遭遇不幸。43岁的纪尧姆·B·德谢尔夫(Guillaume B. Decherf)是为法国文化杂志《Les Inrocks》工作的乐评人，曾为10月28日刊写过有关该乐队的文章的的德谢尔夫也参加了这场音乐会。该杂志称，这位两个孩子的父亲是遇难者之一。法国环球音乐(Universal Music France)总裁帕斯卡尔·内格尔(Pascal Nègre)在Twitter发布消息称，该公司有三名员工遇难。
No members of Eagles of Death Metal were killed, but colleagues and family members took to social media to mourn the death of Nick Alexander, a British citizen who was at the concert and was described as a merchandise seller for the band. Mr. Alexander had worked with a number of rock bands over the years, including Alice in Chains, which described him in a post on the band’s Facebook page as “a great guy and a true professional.” Delphine De Peretti, a 35-year-old project manager, learned of the attacks last night after leaving the theater in London, where she lives. She immediately called her sister, Aurélie, 33, who was in Paris and had attended the concert at the Bataclan. There was no answer.
死亡金属之鹰乐队成员皆幸免于难，但同事和亲属纷纷在社交媒体上悼念尼克·亚历山大(Nick Alexander)，这位英国公民当时在现场，据称是乐队的周边产品销售商。亚历山大多年来先后和许多摇滚乐队合作过，其中包括Alice in Chains，该乐队在其Facebook页面上称他是“一个大好人，非常的专业”。现年35岁、在伦敦生活的项目经理黛尔菲恩·德·佩雷蒂(Delphine De Peretti)是昨晚离开一家剧院时得知此事的。她当即打电话给身在巴黎的妹妹、33岁的奥莱莉(Aurélie)，后者正在巴塔克兰看演出。没人接电话。
On Saturday morning, Ms. De Peretti said she took the Eurostar train from London to Paris and joined her mother, who had come up from her home in the south of France.
周六上午，德·佩雷蒂说她乘欧洲之星列车从伦敦赶到巴黎，和从法国南部赶来的母亲会合。
“We spent all morning looking for her,” she said.
“我们一上午都在找她，”她说。
Then her mother got a call from the Paris medical examiner’s office asking her to come by.
而后她的母亲接到巴黎法医办公室打来的电话，要她过去。
“They told us my sister was dead but they did not let us see her,” she said, adding, “I am like a robot. I don’t know what to do next. I have not watched the news or slept since last night.”
“他们说我妹妹已经死了，但是不让我们见她，”她说，“我就像个机器人。我不知道接下来要做什么。我没看新闻，从昨晚到现在一直没睡。”
Speaking outside a counseling center, still holding a suitcase, Ms. De Peretti described her sister as fond of music and culture; she had loved to draw since she was a child.
在一家咨询中心外，手里还拿着一只公文包的德·佩雷蒂说，她的妹妹喜欢音乐和文化；从小就爱画画。