CHICAGO — Several police officers are waiting in a hotel room, handcuffs at the ready, when they get the signal. A female undercover officer posing as a prostitute is with a would-be customer in an adjacent room, and she has pushed a secret button indicating that they should charge in to make the arrest.
芝加哥——几名警官在一间宾馆房间里等着，随时准备在收到信号时掏出手铐。一名便衣女警乔装成妓女，正在和意欲买春的男子待在临近的房间里，之后她按下了一个隐藏的按钮，向那几名警察示意，是时候冲进来逮捕了。
The officers shove at the door connecting the rooms, but somehow it has become locked. They can’t get in. The undercover officer is stuck with her customer. Tension soars. Curses reverberate. A million fears surge.
警察猛推连接两个房间的门，但不知什么原因门却锁上了，他们没能进去。乔装的女警跟嫖客关在一起，气氛紧张了起来，叫骂声在房间里回荡，大家都开始担心起来。
Then, suddenly, the door frees and the police officers rush in and arrest a graying 64-year-old man, Michael. His smugness shatters and turns to bewilderment and shock as police officers handcuff his hands behind his back.
接着，门突然开了，警察冲了进去，逮捕了那个头发灰白的64岁男子，他名叫迈克尔(Michael)。他脸上沾沾自喜的表情不见了，警察把他的手扳到背后带上手铐时，他脸上又困惑又震惊。
Michael had reason to feel stunned. Police arrest women for prostitution all the time, but almost never their customers.
迈克尔有理由感到震惊。警方总是会因为卖淫而逮捕女性，但几乎从来不会逮捕嫖客。
Yet that is beginning to change. There’s a growing awareness that sex trafficking is one of the most serious human rights abuses around, with some 100,000 juveniles estimated to be trafficked into the sex trade in the United States each year.
但这一点正在改变。越来越多的人们意识到，贩卖人口并组织卖淫是最为严重的侵犯人权的行为，据估计每年大约有10万名未成年人被贩卖到美国从事性工作。
Some women sell sex on their own, but coercion, beatings and recruitment of underage girls are central to the business as well. Just a few weeks ago, New York City police officers rescued a 14-year-old girl in Queens who had run away from home and ended up locked up by pimps and sold for sex. According to court documents, she was told she would be killed if she tried to run away, but after three months she managed to call 911.
的确有一些女性卖淫是出于自愿，然而性产业中胁迫、殴打，以及招募未成年少女的做法也十分常见。就在几周前，纽约市警方从皇后区解救了一名14岁的女孩，她离家出走后，最终被皮条客关了起来被迫卖淫。法庭文件显示，胁迫者警告她，如果敢逃跑就会被杀掉，可是三个月后，她成功拨通了911。
Police increasingly recognize that the simplest way to reduce the scale of human trafficking is to arrest men who buy sex. That isn’t prudishness or sanctimony but a strategy to dampen demand.
警方越来越多地认识到，遏制人口贩卖规模的最简单方法是逮捕嫖娼的男子。这并不是谈性色变，也不是道貌岸然，而是抑制需求的一种策略。
Polling suggests that about 15 percent of American men have bought sex, and back-of-envelope calculations suggest that a man has about a 1 in 100,000 chance of being arrested while doing so.
调查显示大约15%的美国男性有过买春经历，经过粗略的计算，男性在买春时被抓的概率大约有10万分之一。
Yet stings to arrest johns are marvels of efficiency. Here in Chicago, the Cook County Sheriff’s Office places ads on prostitution websites. When men call, an undercover officer directs them to a hotel room. The officer negotiates a price for a sex act, and then other officers jump in and arrest the customer.
然而设圈套抓捕嫖客的行动，效率却高得惊人。在芝加哥，库克县治安官办公室(Sheriff’s Office)在卖淫网站上发布广告，有男子打来电话时，乔装的女警就会指示他们前往一个酒店的房间。这名警员与他谈妥性交易的价格后，其他警察就会冲进来逮捕嫖客。
It’s an assembly line, almost creating traffic jams in the hotel. One time, a customer had just been handcuffed when the undercover officer’s phone rang: it was another john downstairs in the lobby.
这仿佛是一条生产线，几乎会在酒店里造成交通堵塞。有一次，一名嫖客刚被拷上，乔装的女警就接到了电话：另一个嫖客正在楼下大堂里等着。
“Just give me a few minutes to freshen up,” the undercover officer purred.
“稍等一会儿，我收拾一下，”乔装的女警柔声说道。
Donna M. Hughes, an expert on human trafficking at the University of Rhode Island, notes that police often are tougher on men who download child pornography than on johns who have sex with girls or women.
罗德岛大学(University of Rhode Island)研究人口贩卖的专家唐娜·M·休斯(Donna M. Hughes)提到，警方对下载儿童色情电影的男人，往往比与未成年或成年女性发生性关系的嫖客更为严厉。
“I think there is still the old idea around that ‘bad woman’ lure men into bad behavior,” Professor Hughes said. “And the police don’t want to bring shame on the whole family by arresting the man.”
“我想还是有‘坏女人’引诱男人做坏事的老旧想法存在，”休斯教授说。“而且警方也不想逮捕那个男人，让他一家都跟着丢脸。”
Thomas Dart, the sheriff here, says that a basic problem is that the public doesn’t much sympathize with victims of trafficking. He remembers his department once raiding a dog-fighting operation to free pit bulls, and soon afterward raiding a sex-trafficking operation to free girls and women sold for sex. There was an outpouring of sympathy for the pit pulls, he said, but some carping about why the department was in the morals business and worrying about sex.
库克县治安官托马斯·达特(Thomas Dart)说，根本的问题是公众不怎么同情人口贩卖案中的受害者。他记得这里的警察局曾经突袭了一个斗狗窝点，解救了很多比特犬，之后不久又突袭了一个贩卖人口的窝点，解救了许多被迫卖淫的女性。他说，公众对比特犬热切地表达了同情，但一些人却抱怨，为什么警察局要插手人们的道德，担心别人的性生活。
Yet, slowly, understanding is growing that this isn’t about policing morals but about protecting human rights. In more and more states, pimps are prosecuted more often, and minors are not arrested in prostitution cases but are directed to social programs. Sometimes that’s true of adult women, too.
然而渐渐地，人们也越来越理解，这不是在插手道德，而是在保护人权。在越来越多的州里，皮条客受到检方公诉的情形也增多了，卖淫案件中的未成年人不会被逮捕，而是交给了社会项目，有时候成年女性也会这样处理。
As appreciation grows that human trafficking is one of the most serious of human rights abuses, so is the recognition that a starting point in addressing it is to stop making excuses for the men who perpetuate it — and start arresting them.
随着越来越多的人认识到，贩卖人口是最严重的侵犯人权行为之一，也有越来越多的人发觉，应对这个问题的第一步是，不要再给延续这个问题的男人们找借口，要开始逮捕他们。
That’s happening more often, although the punishments are typically minimal. Here in Chicago, the men arrested were taken to another hotel room and made to watch a video about the risks of prostitution — such as sexually transmitted diseases — and then given a $500 ticket. They are advised to pay the fine immediately or a registered letter will be sent to their home address. There is no criminal record, and the men are released in about 30 minutes.
这种情形现在发生得更多了，不过惩罚通常都微不足道。在芝加哥，被捕的男子会被带到另一个宾馆房间，观看一则讲解嫖娼风险（如性病）的视频，之后还会收到500美元（约合3000元人民币）的罚款。警方建议被抓的男子立即缴纳罚金，否则就会向其家庭住址寄一封挂号信。不会有犯罪记录，而且大约30分钟，男子就会获释。
The men’s cars are also towed, which costs them another $700 or so. Mike Anton, commander of the vice unit, says that he always tells the married men that they can avoid towing fees if they call their wives to have them pick up the car.
那些男人的车也会被拖走，这会让他们再付出大约700美元。风化小组的指挥官迈克·安东(Mike Anton)说，他总是会告诉已婚男子，如果给妻子打电话，让她们来提车，就不用缴纳拖车费了。
“None of them has ever taken me up on that,” he added.
安东接着说，“没有人接受过我的这个提议。”