NEW DELHI — A wild Indian elephant that attracted worldwide attention after being swept hundreds of miles down a flood-swollen river into Bangladesh died on Tuesday of a heart attack, Bangladeshi officials said. The animal’s death was brought on by “a long period of stress, heat and humidity,” said Mustafizur Rahman, a veterinary surgeon who supervised the treatment of the elephant last week in northern Bangladesh.
新德里——孟加拉国的官员称，一头受到全世界关注的野生印度象周二死于心梗。上周负责在孟加拉国北部治疗这头大象的兽医穆斯塔菲兹·拉赫曼(Mustafizur Rahman)表示，大象的死是“长期的紧张、炎热和潮湿”导致的。此前，这头大象掉进了一条洪水汹涌的河里，并被冲走数百英里，进入了孟加拉国境内。
The death brought an end to a sad journey.
死亡结束了一段令人心痛的旅程。
Caught in the rising waters of the Brahmaputra River in late June, the elephant, a fully grown male, tried repeatedly to climb ashore in India, but villagers drove him back into the water, in some cases pelting him with stones, said K. K. Sarma, a government veterinary surgeon from India who visited the animal.
看望过这头大象的印度政府兽医K·K·萨尔马(K. K. Sarma)说，6月末在印度境内，这头成年公象被困在水位逐渐升高的布拉马普特拉河里，多次试图爬上岸，但村民把他赶回了水里，有时还朝他扔石头。
“It tried to come up, but it was not allowed to,” he said.
“它试图爬上岸，但人们不允许，”他说。
Officials said the animal had traveled 900 miles.
官员称这头大象被冲走了900英里（约合1500公里）。
Scrambling to land in a swampy district of Bangladesh on June 28, the elephant trudged through the marshes in search of food, becoming dehydrated. News crews arrived, and so many curiosity-seekers trailed him through the swamps that the police were deployed to control them, the Press Trust of India reported.
到了6月28日，在孟加拉国的一片沼泽区，爬上岸的这头大象步履艰难地在沼泽中觅食，身体逐渐脱水。印度报业托拉斯(Press Trust of India)报道，新闻工作者们陆续抵达现场，在沼泽地里追逐他的猎奇者也实在太多，以致官方为了控制他们而部署了警力。
On Thursday, the elephant was tranquilized repeatedly with a dart gun and collapsed, unconscious, into a swamp. Villagers helped haul him onto dry land, and he was bound with ropes and chains. Images from the scene showed the nine-foot, four-ton animal lying in a muddy field, surrounded by onlookers.
上周四，多次被麻醉枪注射镇静剂后，大象倒在了沼泽里，失去了知觉。村民们帮忙将他拖到干燥的地上，他被绳子和链条捆了起来。现场图片显示，这头身长九英尺（约合2.7米）、重四吨的大象躺在淤泥里，被旁观者包围着。
As the elephant weakened, the site took on the festive feeling of a village fair: Mothers held up their children for a better view and vendors sold snacks.
随着大象变得越来越虚弱，那个地方呈现出了乡村集市的节日气氛：母亲把孩子高高举起，以便让他们看得更清楚；小贩兜售零食。
The animal eventually broke free of the ropes and chains, and he began wandering nearby villages before veterinarians decided to tranquilize him again, said Tapan Kumar Dey, chief executive of Bangladesh’s Nature Conservation Society.
孟加拉国自然保护学会(Nature Conservation Society)总干事塔潘·库马尔·戴伊(Tapan Kumar Dey)说，大象最终挣脱了绳子和链条，开始在附近的村子里游荡，于是兽医决定再次给他注射镇静剂。
“It was not our plan to dart him, but the situation bound us,” he said, adding that he believed that the elephant had contracted pneumonia during the 45 days he spent wandering the swamp.
“我们没打算用麻醉枪，是形势所迫，”他说，并接着表示，他认为在沼泽里游荡的45天期间，大象感染了肺炎。
“The crowd wanted to have a closer look at him all the time,” Mr. Dey said. “That was also a problem.”
“人群始终想更近距离地看他，”戴伊说。“这也是一个问题。”
Mr. Sarma, the veterinarian dispatched from India, said he believed the elephant died of heatstroke after two unusually hot and humid days in Bangladesh. He said there was no choice but to chain the animal, lest he destroy the homes or crops of local residents.
印度派去的兽医萨尔马表示，他认为大象死于中暑。大象死的前两天，孟加拉国异常炎热潮湿。他说，除了用链条把他拴住，以免他毁坏当地居民的房屋或庄稼外，别无选择。
“What to do? There was no alternative,” Mr. Sarma said. “You need to save people and property.”
“怎么办？没有其他选择，”萨尔马说。“需要保护民众和财产。”
The animal’s death was not for lack of attention: Bangladeshi newspapers named the animal “Bangabahadur,” which can be loosely translated as “Hero of Bengal,” and Indian news media had been pressing for the animal to be repatriated.
这头大象之所以死亡，并不是因为缺乏关注：孟加拉国的报纸称它为“Bangabahadur”——可以粗略翻译为“孟加拉英雄”；印度媒体则一直敦促政府将这头大象运回国。
“Our media created a havoc for us,” said Mr. Sarma, whose team was sent by the Indian government to advise Bangladesh on how best to handle the elephant. “In Bangladesh, the media was asking us, ‘Under what international act have you come to take the elephant to India?’”
“我们的媒体给我们制造了一个大麻烦，”萨尔马说。他的团队被印度政府派往孟加拉国，给他们建议如何最好地处置这头大象。“孟加拉国的媒体在问我们，‘你们凭借哪条国际法规要把这头大象带回印度？’”
His delegation spent three days on site with the elephant before returning to India after Bangladeshi authorities warned that there were security threats in the area.
他领导的代表团在大象所在的地方待了三天，之后在孟加拉国当局警告该地区存在安全威胁的情况下返回了印度。
After he was tranquilized, the elephant was given more than three gallons of saline water intravenously, but he crashed to the ground a second time on Monday, Dr. Rahman said. He added that the elephant had dangerously high blood pressure and an imbalance of sodium and potassium in his body.
拉赫曼医生表示，打了镇静剂之后，他们还给大象点滴注射了三加仑盐水，但它在周一第二次轰然倒地。他还提到，这头大象的血压极其高，体内的钠元素和钾元素比例失衡。
Forestry officials had hoped to use domestic elephants to guide the elephant to the nearest road, at which point he could have been loaded onto a truck and returned to the hill country of Assam in eastern India.
林业官员原本希望能利用本土的大象将这头象引至最近的路上，然后在那里把它装上卡车，运回位于印度东部丘陵地带的阿萨姆邦。
After the elephant’s death, some of his internal organs were removed and sent to a government laboratory for analysis.
大象死后，它的一些内脏被摘除，送至政府下属的实验室进行分析。