Haverford College on Tuesday joined a growing list of schools to lose commencement speakers to protests from the left, when Robert J. Birgeneau, a former chancellor at the University of California, Berkeley, withdrew from this weekend’s event.
由于左派的抗议，越来越多的学校失去了毕业典礼上的演讲者，周二，哈弗福德学院(Haverford College)也出现了这种情况，前加州大学伯克利分校(University of California, Berkeley)校长罗伯特·J·柏敬诺(Robert J. Birgeneau)退出了该学院于本周末举行的毕业典礼。
Some students and faculty members at Haverford, a liberal arts college near Philadelphia, objected to the invitation to Mr. Birgeneau to speak and receive an honorary degree because, under him, the University of California police used batons to break up an Occupy protest in 2011. He first stated his support for the police, and then a few days later, saying that he was disturbed by videos of the confrontation, ordered an investigation.
哈弗福德学院是一所邻近费城的文理学院，该学院的一些学生和教职工反对邀请柏敬诺发表演讲并接受荣誉学位，原因是在他担任校长期间，加州大学警察曾在2001年用警棍驱散参加“占领”抗议活动的人群。当时他首先表示支持警察，几天之后又称关于现场对抗的视频让他感到不安，并且下令进行调查。
Those at Haverford who objected to his being honored asked Mr. Birgeneau to apologize and to meet a list of demands, including leading an effort to train campus security forces in handling protests better; he refused.
反对授予柏敬诺荣誉学位的哈弗福德学院师生要求他道歉，并且对他提出了一系列要求，比如采取行动培训校园安保队伍，以便更好地处理抗议活动，但遭到他的拒绝。
Mr. Birgeneau bowed out a day after Smith College said that Christine Lagarde, head of the International Monetary Fund, had withdrawn from its commencement because of protests. Condoleezza Rice, the former secretary of state, said this month she would not deliver the address at Rutgers University after the invitation drew objections. Last month, Brandeis University rescinded an invitation to Ayaan Hirsi Ali, the Somali-born activist, over her criticism of Islam.
 柏敬诺宣布退出的前一天，史密斯学院(Smith College)表示，国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）总裁克里斯蒂娜·拉加德(Christine Lagarde)已因遭遇抗议而退出了该学院的毕业典礼。前美国国务卿康多莉扎·赖斯(Condoleezza Rice)在本月表示，她不会在罗格斯大学(Rutgers University)发表演讲，因为她收到的演讲邀请遭到了反对。上个月，布兰迪斯大学(Brandeis University)取消了对出生在索马里的活动人士阿亚安·希尔西·阿里(Ayaan Hirsi Ali)的邀请，因为她发表了批评伊斯兰教的言论。
Such reversals, whether initiated by the school or the speaker, were once rare, but have become more common in the last few years.
此类取消演讲的举动——无论取消决定出于校方还是演讲者——在以前非常罕见，过去几年却变得比较普遍。
Campus activists on the left have long objected to appearances by more conservative figures like Ms. Rice, though usually the events proceeded despite the protests. What is far more unusual is to see them block appearances by figures like Ms. Lagarde, a trailblazing woman usually seen as a centrist, who faced criticism over I.M.F. policies toward poor nations that predated her tenure; or Mr. Birgeneau, who was known for liberal policies toward students who were gay or not authorized to be in the country.
长期以来，左派校园活动人士一直反对赖斯等比较保守的人物露面，但就一般情况而言，尽管有人反对，活动还是会照常进行。更不同寻常的是，他们竟然反对拉加德和柏敬诺这样的人物露面。拉加德是一名具有开拓精神的女性，通常被视为中立派，因IMF在她上任之前对贫穷国家的政策而备受批评；伯格诺则以对同性恋及非法移民学生的宽容政策而闻名。
Michael Rushmore, a Haverford senior who was one of the authors of an open letter to Mr. Birgeneau, said his critics were not setting an unfairly high standard, though, “I think that’s a fair concern.”
哈弗福德学院大四学生迈克尔·拉什莫尔(Michael Rushmore)是致伯格诺的公开信的作者之一。他说，柏敬诺的批评者并没有设立一个不公平的高标准，虽然“我认为这样的担心可以理解”。
“We recognize that we can’t like every single thing about a person,” he said. “But this was something that touched a lot of us very directly because we were at Occupy events. There was some solidarity there that we felt we had to act on.”
“我们承认，一个人不可能方方面面都招人喜欢，”他说。“但是，这一点以非常直接的方式触动了我们中的许多人，因为我们参与了‘占领’活动。我们认为，我们必须对一些共同立场采取行动。”
On Tuesday, Daniel H. Weiss, president of Haverford, sent a message to students and staff members that Mr. Birgeneau had pulled out of Sunday’s event. Mr. Weiss wrote that while he appreciated the views of the protesters, “it is nonetheless deeply regrettable that we have lost an opportunity to recognize and hear from one of the most consequential leaders in American higher education.”
周二，哈弗福德学院院长丹尼尔·H·韦斯(Daniel H. Weiss)发信通知学生和教职工，柏敬诺已经退出周日的活动。韦斯写道，他欣赏抗议者的观点，但“我们失去了一个认识并聆听美国高等教育界一名影响至深的领袖的机会，这还是令人深感遗憾”。