WASHINGTON — Stuffed by their captors into the back of a car with their children as they were being ferried across the rugged tribal areas of northwest Pakistan, an American woman and her Canadian husband were in the final moments of their five-year ordeal as hostages.
华盛顿——和孩子一起被劫持者塞进汽车后备箱，穿行在巴基斯坦西北部地势起伏的部落地区时，一名美国女子和她的加拿大籍丈夫被扣为人质的五年磨难即将迎来终点。
But suddenly, shooting erupted. One of their abductors, a Taliban-linked militant, shouted, “Kill the hostages.”
但突然响起了枪声。其中一名劫持者，一个和塔利班有关的激进分子，高喊“杀了人质”。
The militants found themselves cornered by the Pakistanis. The gunbattle ended, and Pakistani troops pulled the family from the vehicle, to be taken by helicopter to Islamabad. They were safe. The Pakistanis, acting on information provided by U.S. intelligence and collected from drones that had been tracking the hostages, had pulled off Wednesday’s risky operation.
这群激进分子发现自己落入了巴基斯坦人的陷阱。枪战结束，巴基斯坦部队把一家人从车里拉出来，然后用直升机送他们去伊斯兰堡。他们安全了。根据美国情报机构提供的信息，以及一直在跟踪这些人质的无人机搜集到的信息，巴基斯坦部队在周三这个危险的行动中取得了胜利。
The brief firefight, described by relatives of the family as well as U.S., Canadian and Pakistani officials, capped the end of an unimaginable ordeal for Caitlan Coleman, 31, and her husband, Joshua Boyle, 34, who were seized in October 2012 by the Haqqani network, a Taliban faction. Coleman, who had been pregnant when she was abducted, gave birth to all three of her children in captivity. Boyle suffered minor shrapnel wounds in the raid, his family said.
这家人的亲属以及美国、加拿大和巴基斯坦官员描述的短暂交火，结束了31岁的凯特兰·科尔曼(Caitlan Coleman)和她34岁的丈夫乔舒亚·博伊尔(Joshua Boyle)经历的一场难以想像的磨难。2012年10月，两人被隶属于塔利班的“哈卡尼网络”武装组织(Haqqani network)绑架。被抓时已有孕的科尔曼在被囚期间生了三个孩子。家人称，博伊尔在行动中被弹片轻微擦伤。
In dramatic videos released last year by her captors, Coleman, who is from south-central Pennsylvania, had pleaded for her life. In footage depicting two of her children, one with a pacifier, Coleman described her time as a hostage as “Kafkaesque” and said she had been “defiled.” She urged the U.S. government to “help stop this depravity.”
在劫持者去年公布的多段牵动人心的视频中，来自宾夕法尼亚州中南部的科尔曼求对方饶她一命。在描述她的两个孩子——一个还含着安抚奶嘴——的镜头中，科尔曼说自己过着“卡夫卡式的”人质生活，并称自己被“糟蹋”了。她敦促美国政府“帮助结束这种恶行”。
President Donald Trump praised the Pakistanis for their role in freeing the family.
唐纳德·特朗普总统称赞了巴基斯坦在解救这一家人的过程中发挥的作用。
“This is a positive moment for our country’s relationship with Pakistan,” Trump said in a statement on Thursday. “The Pakistani government’s cooperation is a sign that it is honoring America’s wishes for it to do more to provide security in the region.”
“这是美巴关系的一个积极时刻，”特朗普在周四的一份声明中说。“巴基斯坦政府的配合是一个迹象，表明巴方尊重美国希望它为本地区的安全做出更多努力的愿望。”
The family was at the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad late Thursday, Tariq Azim Khan, a Pakistani diplomat, said in a telephone interview from London. The Pakistani military pledged to repatriate them, and U.S. officials were exploring how to get the family out of South Asia. Boyle’s relatives said they expected him to return home in the coming days.
身在伦敦的巴基斯坦外交官塔里克·阿齐姆·汗(Tariq Azim Khan)在电话采访中称，周四晚上，这一家人抵达伊斯兰堡的美国大使馆。巴基斯坦军方承诺送他们回国，美国官方正在探讨怎么让这一家人离开南亚。博伊尔的亲属称他们希望他在接下来的几天里回家。
“Josh indicated that they’d like to come back to Canada,” his mother, Linda, said outside the family’s stone house in Smiths Falls, Ontario, about an hour southwest of Ottawa. “That was their plan right now.”
“乔希表明他们想回加拿大来，”他的母亲琳达(Linda)在他们位于渥太华西南大约一小时车程的安大略省史密斯福尔斯的石头房子外面说。“这是他们现在的计划。”
The return trip was complicated by Boyle’s refusal to board an American C-130 to take the family out of Pakistan and to Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan, where Americans have been accused of abusing detainees. His father said Boyle was philosophically opposed to traveling to the base.
回家之旅因为博伊尔拒绝乘坐美国的一架C-130离开巴基斯坦，前往阿富汗的巴格拉姆空军基地(Bagram Air Base)而变得复杂。在该基地，美国被指虐待囚犯。他的父亲说，博伊尔从哲理的角度反对去该基地。
After marrying in 2011, Coleman and Boyle spent months traveling in Central America before leaving for a trip through Russia and Central Asia. They had planned to leave Afghanistan in late 2012 because of Coleman’s pregnancy. But they were kidnapped in October of that year while backpacking in Wardak province, a militant stronghold near Kabul.
2011年结婚后，科尔曼和博伊尔在中美洲旅游了几个月，之后启程去俄罗斯和中亚各地旅行。因为科尔曼怀孕，他们本计划在2012年年底离开阿富汗。但那年10月，他们在武装分子在喀布尔附近的大本营瓦尔达克省背包旅行时遭到绑架。
In exchange for the family’s freedom, the Haqqani network had previously demanded the release of Anas Haqqani, one of its commanders. The Afghan government captured Haqqani in 2014, and he was sentenced to death. The militant group had threatened to kill the family if he was executed.
作为换取这一家人的自由的条件，哈卡尼网络之前要求释放它的一名指挥官阿纳斯·哈卡尼(Anas Haqqani)。哈卡尼2014年被阿富汗政府抓获，并被判处死刑。该武装组织威胁称，如果哈卡尼被处死，便杀了这一家人。
Earlier attempts to bring the family home fell short. In January 2016, Colin Rutherford, a Canadian, was freed after Qatar arranged a prisoner swap with the Afghan government. Officials had hoped Rutherford would be the first in a series of releases, including Coleman and her family.
早前为让这一家人回家而进行的尝试均以失败告终。2016年1月，加拿大人科林·拉瑟福德(Colin Rutherford)在卡塔尔安排了与阿富汗政府的囚犯交换后获释。官方本希望拉瑟福德会开启一系列的人质获释，包括科尔曼和她的家人。
But that never materialized, for reasons that remain unclear. No prisoners were exchanged and no money was paid to secure the family’s release, Khan said.
但因为至今仍不清楚的原因，这一幕从未上演。汗说，没有为了让这一家人获释交换囚犯，也没有付款。
The Obama administration sought to jump-start talks with the Taliban but those efforts faltered after the U.S. military killed Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour, the Taliban’s leader, in a drone strike in May 2016.
奥巴马政府曾寻求启动与塔利班的谈判，但在美国军队于2016年5月的一场无人机袭击中杀死塔利班领导人毛拉阿赫塔尔·穆罕默德·曼苏尔(MullahAkhtarMohammadMansour)后，这些努力都失败了。
Coleman’s pregnancies added pressure to resolve an already desperate situation, one in which the Haqqanis had repeatedly threatened to kill the family, including the children.
科尔曼的怀孕加剧了化解本就绝望的形势的压力。哈卡尼多次威胁要杀了这一家人，包括孩子。
“The likelihood of a successful rescue was pretty much discounted in our minds,” said Patrick Boyle, Boyle’s father.
“在我们心里，成功解救的可能性大打折扣，”博伊尔的父亲帕特里克·博伊尔(Patrick Boyle)说。
The end of the family’s captivity was a victory for State Department officials and the FBI-led Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell, which had worked on the case for years. The group was created under the Obama administration to improve the government’s efforts to free hostages and to ensure their families received timely information about them.
对美国国务院官员和联邦调查局(FBI)领导的人质解救协调组(Hostage Recovery Fusion Cell)来说，这一家人囚禁岁月的结束是一场胜利。为此事努力了多年的人质解救协调组是在奥巴马政府时期成立的，旨在改进政府的人质解救行动，并确保其家人及时获得有关他们的信息。
The Haqqanis are believed to still be holding an American university professor, Kevin King, who was kidnapped in August 2016. On a video released this year, King pleaded for Trump to free him: “Have mercy on me and get me out.”
哈卡尼据信仍囚禁着2016年8月被绑架的美国大学教授凯文·金(Kevin King)。在今年发布的一段视频中，金请求特朗普救救他：“可怜可怜我，救我出去。”
Another American, Paul Overby, disappeared in May 2014 when he was trying to interview the leader of the Haqqani network.
2014年5月，另一名美国人保罗·奥弗比(Paul Overby)在试图采访哈卡尼的领导人时失踪。