People magazine published an article on Tuesday that quoted six people who claimed to corroborate the sexual assault allegation made against Donald J. Trump by the magazine writer Natasha Stoynoff, which both Mr. Trump and his wife, Melania, have angrily denied.
周二，《人物》(People)杂志的一篇报道援引六人的话称，他们要求为该杂志的作者娜塔莎·斯托伊诺夫(Natasha Stoynoff)此前对唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)提出的性侵犯指控作证。特朗普及其妻子梅拉尼娅(Melania)之前都愤怒地否认了该指控。
Ms. Stoynoff accused Mr. Trump of cornering her alone in 2005 and “pushing me against the wall and forcing his tongue down my throat” while she was at his Florida residence to interview him and his wife for an article on their first wedding anniversary.
斯托伊诺夫指控特朗普曾在2005年将她一个人堵在角落，“把我推靠在墙上，强行把他的舌头伸进我的嘴里”。当时她正在特朗普位于佛罗里达的宅邸内，为报道他们的第一个结婚纪念日采访他和他的妻子。
People published her claims on the same day that The New York Times published an article in which two women described what they said were their own encounters with a sexually aggressive Mr. Trump.
就在《人物》杂志发布她的声明的同一天，《纽约时报》也发表了一篇报道。两名女子在其中描述了她们与有性侵犯行为的特朗普的遭遇。
The six people quoted in the latest article include two editors from People, Mary Green and Liz McNeil; a professor of journalism, Paul McLaughlin; a co-worker; and two personal friends of Ms. Stoynoff. All of them said Ms. Stoynoff told them about the episode around the time it occurred.
在最近这篇文章中被援引的六人包括《人物》杂志的两位编辑玛丽·格林(Mary Green)和利兹·麦克尼尔(Liz McNeil)；新闻学教授保罗·麦克劳夫林(Paul McLaughlin)；一位同事；以及斯托伊诺夫的两位好友。他们都表示，在事发那段时间，斯托伊诺夫曾跟他们谈起此事。
“She wasn’t sure what she should do,” Mr. McLaughlin told the magazine. “I advised her not to say anything, because I believed Trump would deny it and try to destroy her.”
“她不确定自己该怎么做，”麦克劳夫林对《人物》杂志讲道。“我建议她什么也不要说，因为我相信特朗普会予以否认，而且会竭力毁掉她。”
Indeed, Mr. Trump has denied Ms. Stoynoff’s accusations and used the bully pulpit of his rallies to call her “a liar” and unattractive, telling one crowd, “Look at her, I don’t think so.”
的确，特朗普否认了斯托伊诺夫的指控，并利用他在集会活动上的名望讲坛进行反击。他说她是“个骗子”，没什么吸引力，还对一群听众说，“看看她的样子，我不觉得自己会那么做。”
Ms. Trump also rejected the writer’s accusations. She called the claims by Ms. Stoynoff and other women “lies” in an interview with CNN on Monday. Last week, Ms. Trump threatened to sue People over an anecdote in Ms. Stoynoff’s article that recounted a friendly encounter between the two women on a Manhattan street.
特朗普夫人也否认了这位作者的指控。在周一接受CNN采访时，她称斯托伊诺夫及其他女性的话是“谎言”。上周，她还曾威胁要就斯托伊诺夫文章中提到的一件事起诉《人物》杂志，文中详细叙述了这两位女士在曼哈顿一条街上友好交谈的经过。
One of the people quoted in the magazine story, Liza Herz, backed Ms. Stoynoff’s version of events. She said she was a witness to the sidewalk meeting that the candidate’s wife contends never took place.
那篇杂志报道援引了莉莎·赫孜(Liza Herz)的话，以证实斯托伊诺夫的说法。赫孜表示，她亲眼见证了这位总统候选人的妻子决口否认的那次街边谈话。
“They chatted in a friendly way,” Ms. Herz said. “And what struck me most was that Melania was carrying a child and wearing heels.”
“她们在友好地聊天，”赫孜说。“我印象最深的是，梅拉尼娅抱着个孩子，还穿着高跟鞋。”
Ms. Stoynoff said she knew Mr. Trump for several years before the interview during which she claimed he attacked her. She covered his NBC reality show, “The Apprentice,” for People, had previously met him at his home in Trump Tower, and attended his wedding to Ms. Trump.
斯托伊诺夫表示，在她声称遭到侵犯的这次采访之前，她已经认识特朗普好几年。她曾为《人物》报道他在NBC的真人秀节目《学徒》(The Apprentice)，之前还在他位于特朗普大厦(Trump Tower)的家里见过他，也参加了他与特朗普夫人的婚礼。
She said Mr. Trump attacked her during a 2005 interview at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., pinning her against a wall and kissing her. Ms. Stoynoff said the butler walked into the room during the attack and led her and Mr. Trump to an outdoor patio where they were supposed to meet Ms. Trump to resume an interview.
她表示性侵事件发生在2005年，当时她在特朗普位于佛罗里达州棕榈滩的马阿拉歌庄园(Mar-a-Lago)里采访他，她称他把她按在一面墙上亲吻她。斯托伊诺夫表示，在她遭遇侵犯期间，管家走进了房间，把她和特朗普领到了户外的一个露台上，他们原本要在那里和特朗普夫人碰头，继续进行采访。
Ms. Stoynoff said Mr. Trump leaned forward while they waited for his wife and informed her they would soon begin a sexual relationship.
斯托伊诺夫还提到，在等他妻子到来期间，特朗普凑过来告诉她，他们很快会开始一段性关系。
“You know we’re going to have an affair, don’t you?” he said, according to Ms. Stoynoff’s account. “Have you ever been to Peter Luger’s for steaks? I’ll take you. We’re going to have an affair, I’m telling you.”
“你知道我们要发生婚外情了，对吧？”据斯托伊诺夫讲述，特朗普当时这样说道。“你去彼特·鲁格餐厅(Peter Luger)吃过牛排吗？我会带你去。我跟你说，我们要发生婚外情了。”
She said he also referenced a well-known article published in The New York Post in the early 1990s while he was cheating on his first wife, Ivana Trump, with the woman who would become his second, Marla Maples. “You remember,” he said. “ ‘Best Sex I Ever Had.’ ”
她表示，特朗普当时还提到了90年代初期发表在《纽约邮报》(New York Post)上的一篇出名的报道中的话。当时他正背着他的第一任妻子伊万娜·特朗普(Ivana Trump)与后来成为他第二任妻子的玛拉·梅普尔斯(Marla Maples)发生婚外情。“你记得那句话吧，”他说。“‘我最棒的一次性爱经历。’”
Marina Grasic, a longtime friend of Ms. Stoynoff, told People that the writer called her the next day and described both the attack and Mr. Trump’s proposition.
斯托伊诺夫的老友玛丽娜·格拉西克(Marina Grasic)告诉《人物》杂志，这位作者在事发第二天就给她打了电话，讲述了那次性侵犯和特朗普的提议。
“Beyond just the attack, she was horrified by the vulgar circumstances under which she was attacked and propositioned to have an affair,” Ms. Grasic said. “She was there in a professional capacity, writing an article about their happy marriage, and after the incident Trump acted like nothing happened.”
“除了侵犯行为本身，她也被遭受侵犯的庸俗境况以及发生婚外情的提议吓到了，”格拉西克说。“她是以专业的身份去写一篇有关他们幸福婚姻的报道，而且做出这种行为后特朗普表现得就好像什么事也没发生。”
“She was particularly concerned that if he was capable of such behavior, what else was he capable of?” Ms. Grasic added.
“她当时特别担心的是，如果这种事他都做得出，那还会干出些什么来？”格拉西克接着说。