LOUISVILLE, Ky. — On the afternoon of the Kentucky Derby, Rand Paul, the state’s junior Republican senator and likely presidential candidate, spilled out of an elevator in the exclusive Jockey Club Suites of Churchill Downs with an entourage of women with flower-adorned hats, men in seersucker suits and Rupert Murdoch.
肯塔基州路易斯维尔——肯塔基德比(Kentucky Derby)赛马会那天下午，在闲人免进的丘吉尔唐斯跑马场(Churchill Downs)骑师俱乐部套房，有望成为总统候选人的肯塔基州资浅共和党参议员兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)从一台电梯中走出，在他身边，除了一帮头戴花朵装饰帽的女性随从，穿着泡泡纱西服的男性随从之外，还有鲁珀特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)。
Mr. Paul’s guest was a special one. The libertarian brand of politics championed by Mr. Paul and his deep reservations about American intervention overseas have prompted more than a bit of wariness in The Wall Street Journal’s editorial pages, on Fox News and in other influential media outlets owned by Mr. Murdoch. For Mr. Paul, the would-be candidate, and Mr. Murdoch, arguably the most powerful broker in Republican politics, Saturday’s day at the races — filled with betting, losing, drinking and a long chat over kettle corn that was part getting-to-know-you and part political audition — marked a potential turn in the race for president.
保罗的这位嘉宾很特殊。由于保罗支持自由意志论政治主张，而且对美国介入海外事务持有强烈的保留意见，因此，一些对他表现出很大戒心的言论出现在了《华尔街日报》(The Wall Street Journal)的社论版、福克斯新闻(Fox News)，以及默多克旗下的其他一些有影响力的媒体上。保罗可能成为总统候选人，默多克则可以说是共和党的政治圈中势力最大的中间人，对于他们而言，上周六一起现身赛马会——他们在期间投注、输钱、饮酒，还就着爆米花进行了长谈，这次长谈部分上是熟悉彼此，部分上属于政治“试镜”——标志着总裁竞选角逐中的一个潜在转折。
That Mr. Murdoch, no novice when it comes to matters of political imagery, allowed himself to be paraded for six hours around the boisterous and bourbon-drenched grounds like a prize horse behind a proud jockey, amounted to a message to more establishment Republicans that, as Mr. Murdoch put it, “I’m very open minded.”
在政治形象方面，默多克可不是新手，他甘愿在热闹喧嚣、浸透波旁威士忌的场地上被示众了大约六个小时，就像一匹万众挑一的马，站在自豪的骑师后面，此举向更具权威的共和党人传达了一条信息，就像默多克自己说的那样：“我的心态很开放”。
“I thought it would be fun to have him come down,” said Mr. Paul, who wore a powder blue houndstooth blazer, pink tie and Ray-Bans for the occasion. 
“我认为让他到这里来会很有趣，”保罗说，他应景地穿着一件淡蓝色犬牙纹正装夹克，系着粉红色领带，戴着雷朋太阳镜。
“I’ve never been to the Kentucky Derby,” explained Mr. Murdoch, who said Mr. Paul invited him about a month ago. “I said absolutely.” He added, “It’s a good thing for me. He’s a very interesting man.”
“我从来没看过肯塔基德比，”默多克解释说，他说保罗大约一个月前邀请了他。“我说绝对会去。”他说，“这对我来说是件好事。他这人非常有趣。”
For more than a year, Mr. Paul has been the most interesting man in Republican politics. His efforts to expand the Republican Party, and distinguish himself as a presidential candidate, have led him to reach out to constituencies that are not usually in the party’s sights. That, and a confluence of issues that have played to his strengths, have resulted in Mr. Paul being the hottest ticket in politics. 
一年多来，保罗一直是共和党政治圈中最有趣的人。他努力扩张共和党的势力，而且表现得像是总统候选人一样，这使得他接触到了一些通常不在共和党视野内的选民。再加上其他一些展示他所长的事情，让保罗成为了政界炙手可热的人物。
Establishment power brokers, most notably Mitch McConnell, the endangered Kentucky senator and minority leader, have courted Mr. Paul in the hopes of obtaining some of his popularity. So it was unusual to see the solicitous side of Mr. Paul, an often curt and highly confident politician who made his name upsetting the establishment.
以处境堪忧的肯塔基州参议员、少数党领袖米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)为代表的掌权派权力掮客已经在拉拢保罗，希望沾一些他的人气。所以看到保罗殷勤有加的一面是件很不寻常的事，毕竟他通常表示得唐突无礼、高度自信，而且闯出了让掌权派感到不安的名声。
Some of the seemingly early favorites in the Murdoch stakes have had difficulty. While Mr. Murdoch said in an interview he liked Jeb Bush of Florida and Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, he expressed some doubts about the endurance of Chris Christie, the New Jersey governor and onetime leading hope of the Republican establishment. “He’ll be a very strong, fighting candidate in the primaries,” Mr. Murdoch said, “but there will be more and more stuff coming out, I think. Not him but, you know, on his aides. There will be more stories.”
默多克早期似乎看中的一些人遇到了麻烦。他在接受采访时说自己喜欢佛罗里达州的杰布·布什(Jeb Bush)和威斯康星州的保罗·瑞安(Paul Ryan)，但对于共和党掌权派曾经的头号希望、新泽西州州长克里斯·克里斯蒂(Chris Christie)，默多克不太看好他的持久力。“初选时他会是一个非常强大、有战斗力的候选人，”默多克说，“但我觉得，会有越来越多的东西冒出来。不是他的问题，而是他助手的问题，你知道的。将会有更多事情冒出来。”
Mr. Murdoch had only warm words for Mr. Paul as a political tactician. He said that Mr. McConnell, facing a “tough race,” had benefited from Mr. Paul’s endorsement, and so, in turn, had Mr. Paul. “A smart move,” he said. “For everybody.”
默多克对保罗赞不绝口，称他是高明的政治谋略家。他说，正面临着一场“艰苦竞赛”的麦康奈尔曾经从保罗的支持中获益，因此，反过来，他支持保罗。“这么做很聪明，”默多克说，“对大家都有好处。”
The often hawkish editorial page of Mr. Murdoch’s Wall Street Journal has been more full throated in its disappointment with Mr. Paul, suggesting that he was not serious about national security.
相比之下，默多克旗下《华尔街日报》的社论专版常常持强硬观点，向来直言不讳地表达对保罗的失望，称他没有认真对待国家安全问题。
But Saturday’s outing was notably more congenial, even as the two Republicans stepped precariously through a tunnel that smelled heavily of manure. Mr. Murdoch expressed interest in Mr. Paul’s views. And when Mr. Paul mentioned his efforts to reduce the prison sentences for possession of crack cocaine, Mr. Murdoch agreed, saying, “They should be there six months at the most.”
但周六出游时的气氛明显更为融洽，即使是这两名共和党人小心翼翼地走过一个马粪味刺鼻的隧道时。默多克对保罗的观点一直饶有兴趣。此外，当保罗提到自己在努力缩短对私藏霹雳可卡因的监禁刑期，默多克表示赞同，他说，“顶多六个月监禁就足够了。”
After watching another race from the track rails, Mr. Murdoch joked that his losing bets were padding Kentucky’s coffers. Then he, Mr. Paul and others headed over to the hushed clubhouse, where Mr. McConnell held court in a khaki suit. They bumped into James Baker, the former secretary of state.
在观看了另一场赛马后，默多克开玩笑说，自己在赛马中输掉的钱都能把肯塔基州的金库填满了。然后，他和保罗等人来到了安静的会所，穿着一套卡其色套装的麦康奈尔正在那里迎接他们。他们还遇到了前国务卿詹姆斯·贝克(James Baker)。
“This is a good place to meet,” said Mr. Baker.
“这是个不错的聚会场所，”贝克说。
“Do you know Mr. Murdoch?” asked Mr. Paul, making it abundantly clear they were together.
“你认识默多克先生吗？”保罗问，以显示默多克是和他一起来的。
“I sure do,” Mr. Baker said. “Hi Rupert. Excellent to see you.”
“当然认识，”贝克说，“你好，鲁珀特。见到你太好了。”
Mr. Paul and Mr. Murdoch chatted with Mr. McConnell and then made the trek back to the Jockey Club suite. The day’s political main event had finally arrived. Mr. Murdoch ordered a cranberry soda and vodka. Mr. Paul chose bourbon on the rocks with a splash of water. Mr. Murdoch asked Kelley Paul if she wanted a drink and then inquired about her three children.
保罗和默多克与麦康奈尔闲聊了一会儿，然后回到了骑师俱乐部套房。当天的政治重头戏终于上演了。默多克要了一杯蔓越莓苏打水和伏特加。保罗要了加冰的波旁威士忌，掺了一点水。默多克问凯莉·保罗，想不想喝点什么，然后又问了她的三个孩子。
“Do you have children?” she asked.
“您有孩子吗？”她问道。
“Yeah,” he said. “But I’ve been married too often. But I have two boys and four girls.”
“有，”他说，“不过我结过太多次婚了。不过我有两个儿子和四个女儿。”
“You have one son who is involved in the media business?” Mr. Paul asked.
“您有一个儿子做媒体工作，对吧？”保罗问。
“Two, both of them. They were going to form a team,” he said, his voice trailing off.  
“两个，都做媒体。他们打算组成一个团队，”他说着，声音低了下去。