Just over a month after Rupert Murdoch surprised his wife of 14 years with divorce papers, Wendi Murdoch has switched lawyers, a move signaling that the separation could take an acrimonious turn.
鲁伯特·默多克(Rupert Murdoch)提出离婚申请，让结婚14年的妻子倍感震惊。事情刚刚持续了一个月，邓文迪(Wendi Murdoch)就更换了律师，说明这起离婚案可能会朝痛苦的方向转变。
Mrs. Murdoch has hired William D. Zabel, a well-known New York trusts and estates lawyer who has represented several women in their divorces from wealthy businessmen, including Jane Beasley Welch during her contentious split from John F. Welch, the former chief executive of General Electric.
邓文迪已经聘任了纽约知名信托及不动产律师威廉·D·扎贝尔(William D. Zabel)，扎贝尔曾担任过几名女性的代理律师，处理她们与富商配偶的离婚事宜，其中包括简·比斯利·韦尔奇(Jane Beasley Welch)，她与前通用电气公司(General Electric)首席执行官约翰·F·韦尔奇(John F. Welch)的离婚案颇具争议。
A spokesman for Mrs. Murdoch, Christopher Giglio, confirmed the hiring of Mr. Zabel, but otherwise declined to comment.
邓文迪的发言人克里斯托弗·吉利奥(Christopher Giglio)证实邓文迪已经聘用扎贝尔，但却拒绝置评。
Mrs. Murdoch had been represented by Pamela M. Sloan, who advised Mrs. Murdoch on her prenuptial agreement with Mr. Murdoch in 1999, when the couple married in front of 82 guests on board his 155-foot sailing yacht, the Morning Glory.
帕梅拉·M·斯隆(Pamela M. Sloan)曾是邓文迪的代表律师。斯隆曾为邓文迪提供有关婚前协议的建议，那时是1999年，82名宾客在默多克155英尺（约合74米）长的游艇牵牛花号上见证两人结为夫妻。
But since then, Ms. Sloan had become friendly with the Murdochs, and Mrs. Murdoch decided that she wanted more independent counsel, said a person with direct knowledge of the case who like many people declined to be identified discussing personal matters.
但一位熟知内情的人士表示，从那以后，斯隆就与默多克夫妇成为了朋友，而邓文迪决意聘用更加独立的法律顾问。这名知情人士像其他很多人一样，拒绝在谈论个人问题时透露姓名。
Ms. Sloan did not return a request for comment.
斯隆没有回应置评请求。
Although the Murdochs signed a prenuptial agreement and two postnuptial agreements delineating the separation of assets in the event of a divorce, there are a number of areas that remain up for negotiation, said people with knowledge of the case who spoke only on the condition of anonymity.
一些要求匿名的知情人士表示，虽然默多克夫妇签订了一份婚前协议及两份婚后协议，对离婚时的资产分割做出了安排，但仍有很多方面需要进行谈判。
For one, there are the custody arrangements and child support for their daughters, Grace, 11, and Chloe, 9, these people said. Because they are not binding on the court, custody arrangements and child support are rarely part of prenuptial agreements, and are often used by the less-moneyed spouse as leverage in negotiations.
这些知情人士表示，要谈的问题之一是他们的女儿——11岁的格蕾丝(Grace)和9岁的克罗艾(Chloe)——的监护权及抚养费问题。因为监护权及抚养费协议没有法律效力，婚前协议很少提及这些问题，较不富裕的配偶通常将这些问题当做谈判的砝码。
Other issues that could be contended include the division of certain assets, like their Fifth Avenue penthouse and the yacht, on which Mrs. Murdoch, 44, and her daughters are currently vacationing in the Caribbean.
可能引起争论的问题还包括某些资产的分割，比如位于第五大道的顶层公寓以及一艘游艇，44岁的邓文迪目前正带着女儿乘坐该游艇在加勒比海度假。
There is also the contentious issue surrounding the Murdoch family trust. Mr. Murdoch surprised his wife in 2006 when he announced during a television interview with Charlie Rose that Grace and Chloe would have the same economic interest in the family’s trust but not the same voting rights as his four children from his previous two marriages.
默多克家族的信托资金也是一个存在争议的问题。2006年，默多克在接受查理·罗斯(Charlie Rose)的电视采访时称，格蕾丝和克罗艾将在家族信托基金中享有平等的经济利益，但不享有与他之前两次婚姻中的子女相同的投票权，邓文迪对此感到震惊。
The slip almost created a separation, and prompted Mrs. Murdoch to negotiate more favorable terms for her daughters, according to people close to the couple.
据与默多克夫妇关系密切的人士透露，那次失言几乎导致他俩分手，促使邓文迪为她的女儿们争取更加有利的条款。
Mr. Zabel, an expert in trust law, is expected to examine the soundness of the trust structure.
身为信托法专家，扎贝尔估计会审查这个信托架构的合理性。
“Even with the most sophisticated couple, unless you have perfect 20/20 foresight often some issues can arise that weren’t taken into consideration and are prime for negotiation,” said Paul M. Talbert, a divorce lawyer at Donohoe Talbert in New York, who is not involved in the Murdoch case.
“即便是最久经世故的夫妇，除非你有非常全面的预见能力，否则就往往会遇上一些大家都没有考虑到而又对协商至关重要的事情，”纽约多诺霍·塔尔伯特(Donohoe Talbert)的离婚律师保罗·M·塔尔伯特(Paul M. Talbert)说。他并未参与默多克夫妇的离婚案。
Representing Mr. Murdoch, 82, in the divorce proceeding is Ira E. Garr of the law firm Garr Silpe. But Mr. Murdoch is also relying heavily on the advice of Gerson A. Zweifach, the general counsel of both News Corporation and 21st Century Fox, as the newly separated companies are now known. Mr. Murdoch’s 1998 divorce from his second wife, Anna, cost more than $110 million in cash.
在离婚程序中代表82岁的默多克的是加尔·斯莱普(Garr Slipe)律师事务所的伊拉·E·加尔(Ira E. Garr)。不过，默多克也非常依赖新闻集团(News Corporation)和21世纪福克斯(21st Century Fox)总顾问格尔松·A·茨韦法赫(Gerson A. Zweifach)的建议。这是集团拆分而来的两家公司的新名字。1988年，与第二任妻子安娜(Anna)离婚时，默多克损失了超过1.1亿美元（约合6.7亿元人民币）的现金。
A company spokeswoman has said the divorce will have no effect on either company.
一名公司女发言人说，离婚不会对两家公司造成任何影响。
Shortly after a visit to the couple’s Northern California home in June, Mrs. Murdoch returned to New York to learn that Mr. Murdoch had served her with divorce papers, a decision he did not take lightly, according to several people close to the couple who would not discuss their private matters for attribution.
几个与默多克夫妇关系密切的人说，邓文迪曾于6月前往夫妇俩位于北加利福尼亚州的家，之后不久，她回到纽约时发现默多克提出了离婚申请，而默多克这个决定经过了再三的考虑。这些人不愿在具名的情况下讨论他们的私事。
Mrs. Murdoch, after interviewing about eight different lawyers, including leading members of the matrimonial bar like Robert Stephan Cohen and Peter E. Bronstein, chose Mr. Zabel. Initially, Mrs. Murdoch did not have time to screen potential divorce lawyers and turned to Ms. Sloane, a trusted confidante, by default.
在面试了大约八名律师（其中包括著名离婚案律师罗伯特·斯蒂芬·科恩[Robert Stephan Cohen]和彼得·E·布龙斯坦[Peter E. Bronstein]）之后，邓文迪选择了扎贝尔。刚开始，邓文迪并没有时间来挑选离婚律师，只好向自己颇为信任的密友斯隆求助。
The core of Mr. Zabel’s practice at the law firm Schulte Roth & Zabel is advising wealthy clients like George Soros and the Lehman family, drafting their wills and trusts and advising on estate planning. But he also handles messier matters for his clients; in 2010, for instance, he represented the estate of his longtime client, the Palm Beach philanthropist and investor Jeffry M. Picower, in a $7.2 billion settlement with the federal government over claims related to money that he received from Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.
扎贝尔在舒尔特·罗斯和扎贝尔(Schulte Roth & Zabel)律师事务所的主要业务是为乔治·绍罗什(George Soros)和雷曼(Lehman)家族等富裕客户提供建议，帮助他们起草遗嘱和信托协议，并在不动产规划方面提供建议。但是，他也会为客户处理一些较为琐碎的事情；例如2010年，他代表自己的长期客户、棕榈滩慈善家和投资人杰弗里·M·皮科沃(Jeffry M. Picower)的产业与联邦政府达成了价值72亿美元的和解协议，以解决皮科沃从伯纳德·L·麦道夫(Bernard L. Madoff)的庞氏骗局中获取钱财的指控。
There is also the occasional divorce assignment. Much of the time, Mr. Zabel will play the role of mediator, and has peaceably settled the divorces of the late author Michael Crichton, the radio host Howard Stern and the New York Jets owner Robert Wood Johnson IV.
有时候，他也会接手离婚案。大多数时候，扎贝尔都会扮演调停者的角色，并曾和平解决已故作家迈克尔·克莱顿(Michael Crichton)、电台主播霍华德·斯特恩(Howard Stern)和纽约喷气机队(New York Jets)所有者罗伯特·伍德·约翰松四世(Robert Wood Johnson IV)的离婚案。
But at times, he has been involved in nasty marital spats, like that of Ms. Welch, whose marriage collapsed after she discovered her husband’s dalliance with the journalist Suzy Wetlaufer. The divorce was fiercely litigated and settled on the courthouse steps in 2002 only after Mr. Welch agreed to pay Ms. Welch several hundred million dollars.
然而，有时候，他也会卷入混乱的婚姻战，韦尔奇太太的离婚案就是如此。在发现丈夫与记者苏济·韦特劳弗(Suzy Wetlaufer)的暧昧关系之后，韦尔奇太太的婚姻宣告崩溃。这场离婚案的法庭争论十分激烈，在韦尔奇同意支付韦尔奇太太几亿美元的赔偿金后，才于2002年最终达成法庭和解。
More recently, he represented Christina Lurie, the former wife of the Philadelphia Eagles owner Jeffrey Lurie, who divorced after 20 years of marriage. Ms. Lurie remained a part owner of the team.
最近，他还担任了费城老鹰队(Philadelphia Eagles)所有者杰弗里·劳瑞(Jeffrey Lurie)的前妻克里斯蒂娜·劳瑞(Christina Lurie)的代理律师。这对夫妇在结婚20年之后离婚。克里斯蒂娜·劳瑞仍然是该队所有者之一。
Because he keeps divorce representations to a minimum, Mr. Zabel often refers cases to his former wife, Eleanor B. Alter, herself a prominent matrimonial lawyer in New York.
扎贝尔倾向于尽量减少离婚案的代理，因此经常把案件转给前妻埃莉诺·B·阿尔特(Eleanor B. Alter)。阿尔特本人就是纽约著名的婚姻法律师。