Ian Fleming adored women, fast cars, golf, martinis and cards, and he cheerfully assigned these same hobbies to his most famous fictional creation, Agent 007. But “The Man With the Golden Typewriter: Ian Fleming’s James Bond Letters” is much less about Fleming’s glamorous cavorting than it is about his brazen hustle to become a famous commercial novelist. This will come as a disappointment, perhaps, to anyone who dives into this collection and expects an orgy of vice. But to anyone who has ever worked on a book — writing one, editing one, marketing one, publishing one — or, heck, even just read one, this volume is a giant stalk of catnip.
伊恩·弗莱明(Ian Fleming)喜欢女人，喜欢开快车，打高尔夫球，喝马提尼酒，打牌，所以他欣欣然地把同样的爱好赋予他最著名的虚构人物：特工007。但是《拥有黄金打字机的男人：伊恩·弗莱明关于詹姆斯·邦德的书信集》(The Man With the Golden Typewriter: Ian Fleming’s James Bond Letters)主要不是讲弗莱明怎么花天酒地，更多的是讲他如何极力想成为著名的畅销小说作家。如果你研究这些书信，是想从中找到放荡淫乱，那你一定会感到失望。但是，对任何一个跟书打过交道的人——写过、编辑过、推广过、出版过——咳，哪怕只是读过书的人来说，这本书信集都十分令人兴奋。
Open to almost any page and you’ll find something irresistible. My favorite exchanges are those between Fleming and two of his most trusted readers, William Plomer and Daniel George, to whom he sent early drafts of each Bond installment. While they almost always found something wonderful to say — “I got so fond of Dr. No I was quite sorry to see him vanish under a mound of excreta,” Mr. Plomer wrote in 1957 — they were positively unsparing in their critiques of Fleming’s stylistic tics and idiosyncrasies. There isn’t space to list them all, but here’s a modest sampling:
不管翻到哪一页，你都能找到非常诱人的内容。我最喜欢的是弗莱明和他最信任的两位读者——威廉·普洛默(William Plomer)和丹尼尔·乔治(Daniel George)之间的对话。他把每部邦德小说的初稿都发给他俩看。虽然他们几乎总是能找到一些好听话说——比如普洛默1957年写道：“我太喜欢诺博士了，看到他消失在一堆排泄物下面，我很难过”——但他们在批评弗莱明的口头禅和癖好时也毫不留情。在这里我不能一一列举，只举几个例子：
“I don’t think M. ought so often to speak ‘drily.’”
“我觉得M不应该那么频繁地‘冷冰冰地’说话。”
“Shoulder-shrugging, I regret to say, is too much in evidence.”
“我遗憾地说，耸肩出现得太多了。”
“On some pages the sentences all begin with ‘And.’ I can’t see the point of this. Presumably you are aiming at producing an effect of panting continuity. Take out all the ‘Ands’ and see if it makes any difference.”
“有些地方，所有的句子都以‘And’开头。我不明白你为什么要这样做。可能你是想制造一种喘息般的连续性。把所有这些‘And’去掉，看看会不会有所不同。”
Mr. Plomer also offered more practical criticisms, noting how improbable it was that a fly-button would be the first thing to dislodge from Bond’s pants as he lay spread-eagle on a saw table, a circular blade whirring toward his groin. (A memorable scene in “Goldfinger.”) “Didn’t other objects get in the way first,” Mr. Plomer asked, “or does Bond have undescended testicles?”
普洛默还提出了一些更有实用价值的批评。他指出，当邦德趴在锯床上，圆形齿轮冲向他的裆部时，他裤子上第一个掉下的竟然是纽扣（《007之金手指》[Goldfinger]中令人难忘的一幕），这太不真实了。普洛默问道：“难得不是应该先碰到其他东西吗？还是说邦德患有隐睾症？”
The letters in “The Man With the Golden Typewriter” are for the most part organized chronologically, with each batch corresponding to the evolution and reception of a different Bond novel. (Fleming wrote these Bond books with depressing rapidity, in just two-month spurts at his Jamaican retreat, Goldeneye.)
《拥有黄金打字机的男人》中的信件大部分是按照时间顺序排列的，每一批都是关于一部邦德小说的演变和反馈（弗莱明是在牙买加的度假屋黄金眼[Goldeneye]，用令人抑郁的速度写完这些邦德小说，两个月就写好了）。
Fergus Fleming, Ian’s nephew and an author in his own right, writes the introduction and serves as the collection’s Jeeves throughout, providing his services when droll and illuminating context is required but otherwise quietly stepping out of the way.
伊恩的侄子弗格斯·弗莱明(Fergus Fleming)本身也是作家，他给这本书信集写了序，而且从头到尾，他像一名得力助手，在需要的时候说明有趣的背景，其他时候则安静地躲在幕后。
From the start, the reader knows that Fleming will not be an easy customer. After one of his earliest meetings with his publisher, Jonathan Cape, Fleming sent him a note hinting that higher royalty rates than they’d discussed might be nice, as would a first print run of 10,000 copies — an awfully high number for a first-time author. His postscript: “I return William’s report which doesn’t give me many hints on improving my style. Presumably this means it is already impeccable.”
从一开始，读者就知道弗莱明不会是一个好对付的客户。在跟出版人乔纳森·凯普(Jonathan Cape)早期的一次会晤之后，弗莱明给他写了一封短信，暗示如果能提高版税、首印1万册就更好了——对首次出书的作者来说，这个印数非常高。他又附言说：“我把威廉的报告返还，在改善我的文风方面，他没有提供很多建议。这也许意味着它已经无可挑剔。”
Mr. Cape should have expected it. Fleming was both the foreign manager of The Sunday Times of London and the director of Queen Anne Press at the time. He was, to a publisher, what Philip Roth would likely be to a psychoanalyst: the nightmare client who knows the tricks of the trade better than the experts.
凯普应该已经料到会这样。当时，弗莱明既是伦敦《星期日泰晤士报》(The Sunday Times)的外事主管，也是安妮皇后出版社(Queen Anne Press)的主管。他之于出版人，就像菲利普·罗思(Philip Roth)之于心理分析学家：他是让人头疼的客户，他对这个行业诡计的了解比专家还深。
Fleming’s haggling notes about print runs and royalties continue through the first quarter of this volume, and they’re a study in dash, self-deprecation and passive aggression, all rolled into one. (On discovering that a fellow writer at the same publishing house had a better deal: “This,” he wrote, “was a severe blow to my amour propre.”)
这本书信集的前四分之一充满了弗莱明关于印数和版税的讨价还价，它是研究气魄、自谦和被动攻击（这些全都融合到了一起）的绝佳素材（他在发现这家出版社的另一位作者的版税更高后写道，“这是对我自尊心的极大打击”）。
Time would, of course, prove Fleming right. His publishers should have backed him heavily from the start. As his fame waxed, his correspondents grew more diverse, including not just his editors and literary friends (Noël Coward, W. Somerset Maugham, Raymond Chandler), but also legions of critics, fans, nit-pickers and self-appointed fact checkers.
当然，时间会证明弗莱明是正确的。他的出版人从一开始就应该大力支持他。随着他的名声渐涨，他的通信对象变得更多样化，不仅包括编辑和文人朋友（比如诺埃尔·科沃德[Noël Coward]、W·萨默塞特·毛姆[W. Somerset Maugham]和雷蒙德·钱德勒[Raymond Chandler]），还包括很多批评者、粉丝、挑剔者以及自封的事实核查者。
The fact-checking notes are a revelation. Before the hawk-eyed age of the Internet, readers had to use snail-mail for their chiding missives pointing out an author’s mistakes, and Fleming received some lulus. Several women rebuked Fleming for incorrectly attributing the manufacture of Vent Vert perfume to Dior, rather than Balmain. Some fellow censured him for outfitting the Orient Express with hydraulic brakes, rather than vacuum ones. French speakers wrote to correct his French; German speakers wrote to correct his German; Herman W. Liebert, a librarian at Yale, complained he’d implausibly stuffed Anglicisms into the mouths of Americans: “A list of alternate readings is enclosed. A few are optional, most are not.”
关于事实核查的信件真是让人大开眼界。在互联网锐利的洞察力出现之前，读者们只能用缓慢的信件来指摘作者的错误，其中不乏“佼佼者”。几个女人指责弗莱明错误地认为绿风香水(Vent Vert)是迪奥(Dior)的产品，实际上它是巴尔曼(Balmain)的产品。还有一位读者指责他误把东方快车(Orient Express)的刹车器写成液压的，实际上它是真空的。法语读者写信纠正他的法语；德语读者纠正他的德语；耶鲁大学(Yale)的图书管理员赫尔曼·W·利伯特(Herman W. Liebert)抱怨他难以置信地让小说中的美国人说英式英语：“随信附上一些对应的美式说法。有几个是可改可不改的，大部分是必须改的。”
(Fleming was so impressed he sent Mr. Liebert an early manuscript of “The Spy Who Loved Me,” beseeching him to go to town.)
（这让弗莱明很是感动，所以他把《007之海底城》[The Spy Who Loved Me]的初稿发给了利伯特，恳请他纠正。）
Then came the letter about the gun. In his first Bond books, Fleming had armed 007 with a .25 Beretta. “This sort of gun is really a lady’s gun,” wrote one Geoffrey Boothroyd of Glasgow in 1956, “and not a really nice lady at that.” It turns out that Mr. Boothroyd knew his stuff; he and Mr. Fleming became friends; and Bond was promptly re-equipped with his famous Walther PPK.
后来他收到一封关于枪的读者来信。在最初的邦德小说里，弗莱明给007配的是.25Beretta手枪。1956年，格拉斯哥的杰弗里·布思罗伊德(Geoffrey Boothroyd)写道：“这种手枪真的是女士手枪，而且还不是精良的女士手枪。”结果证明，布思罗伊德还真是内行，后来他和弗莱明成了朋友，邦德的装备很快换成了著名的沃尔特PPK手枪(Walther PPK)。
To his admirers and even his scalding critics, Fleming was unfailingly charming and assured. Occasionally, though, Fleming’s notes to his friends contained more than a whiff of self-doubt, which lends this lively and entertaining collection more poignancy than you might expect.
对他的仰慕者，甚至对那些尖锐批评者，弗莱明始终保持迷人的魅力和自信。不过，在给朋友们的信件中，弗莱明偶尔流露出强烈的自我怀疑，给这本活泼有趣的书信集平添了很多你意想不到的辛酸。
“Probably the fault of my books is that I don’t take them seriously enough and meekly accept having my head ragged off about them,” he wrote to Raymond Chandler in April 1956. “If one has a grain of intelligence it is difficult to go on being serious about a character like James Bond. You after all write ‘novels of suspense’ — if not sociological studies — whereas my books are straight pillow fantasies of the bang-bang, kiss-kiss variety.”
1956年4月，在给雷蒙德·钱德勒的信中，弗莱明写道：“也许我的书的问题在于我没太把它们当回事，任由自己天马行空地胡思乱想。稍微有些才智的人就很难继续认真看待詹姆斯·邦德这样的人物。毕竟，你写的是‘悬疑小说’——如果不能称为社会学著作的话——而我的书完全是打打杀杀、你侬我侬的枕边幻想小说。”
These doubts, alas, fitfully haunted Fleming until he died of a heart attack in 1964 at the age of 56. But his admirers should know he remained a sybarite even in his waning days. After his first heart attack in 1961, he wrote to Christopher Soames, Britain’s minister of agriculture, hoping to determine “the finest liquor obtainable in England,” now that he was condemned to a mere three ounces a day. “I am so sorry to bother you with this picayune enquiry,” he closed, “but it is just conceivable that you may also be interested in the reply.”
哎，这些自我怀疑时不时地困扰弗莱明，直到1964年他56岁时因心脏病发作去世。不过，他的崇拜者应该知道，即便在名声渐衰时，他依然喜欢奢侈享乐。1961年，第一次心脏病发作后，他给英国农业大臣克里斯托弗·索姆斯(Christopher Soames)写信，希望后者能确定“在英国能得到的最好的酒是什么”。当时医生要求他每天只能喝三盎司酒，所以他在结尾处写道：“很抱歉用这种小问题来打扰你，但是我相信你应该也会对答案感兴趣。”