HONG KONG — China said goodbye to the Year of the Horse on Wednesday, and on the first day of the new lunar year revelers welcomed the Year of the Sheep.
香港——周三，中国告别了马年，狂欢者在农历新年的第一天迎来了绵羊(sheep)年。
Or maybe the goat. Or perhaps the ram.
但也可能是山羊(goat)年或公羊(ram)年。
For English speakers, it is a can of worms.
对说英语的人来说，这简直就是一大难题。
“Few ordinary Chinese are troubled by the sheep-goat distinction,” Xinhua, China’s main state-run news agency, said in its report on the debate. “However, the ambiguity has whipped up discussion in the West.”
“对于准备迎接羊年新年的普通中国民众而言，生肖羊是绵羊还是山羊并没有什么区别，”中国主要的官方通讯社新华社在一篇介绍这场争论的报道中说。“但这个问题却让西方媒体很头疼。”
The reason is that the word for the eighth animal in the Chinese zodiac’s 12-year cycle of creatures, yang in Mandarin, does not make the distinction found in English between goats and sheep and other members of the Caprinae subfamily. Without further qualifiers, yang might mean any such hoofed animal that eats grass and bleats. And so Chinese news outlets have butted heads for days on what to call this year in English, recruiting experts to pass judgment.
其中的原因是在普通话中，在中国十二生肖中名列第八的羊这个词，并没有英语中山羊、绵羊和羊亚科其他成员之间的区别。因为没有进一步的限定，羊可能是任何这类有蹄、吃草、咩咩叫的动物。因此数天来，中国新闻媒体一直在讨论今年的生肖年用英语怎么说，聘请专家做出判断。
“The yang possesses a rich and complex meaning in the minds of Chinese people,” said The Beijing Daily, mustering the kind of grandiloquence that journalists can resort to during a slow news patch. “It has permeated every corner of our lives. Some say that in a sense, Chinese culture is not the culture of the dragon or the tiger, but the culture of the yang.”
“羊在中国人的心目中有着种种丰富复杂的含义，”《北京日报》称，文章汇集了记者在报道不具时效性的新闻时能用到的那种溢美之词。“渗透到我们生活的方方面面。有人说，从某种意义上讲，中国文化不光是龙文化、虎文化，也是羊文化。”
Not everyone seemed so worked up about the distinction.
但似乎并非人人都在意这其中的区别。
“I’ve never thought about that question before,” Chen Xufeng, an office clerk in Beijing, told Xinhua. “Do we have to tell them apart? I’ve seen more goats in zodiac images, but I prefer to buy a sheep mascot, as sheep are more fluffy and lovely.”
“从来没想过羊年应该是绵羊还是山羊，”在北京工作的白领陈旭峰告诉新华社。“我看到的生肖形象更多是山羊，但我会更愿意买绵羊造型的吉祥物，因为它们更可爱。”
The prevalent theory goes that because Han Chinese culture developed in regions where herders and goats prevailed, the zodiac talisman must be a goat. The animal is indeed common in traditional New Year art. But sheep have their proponents, and they have become more common in cutesy cartoonish decorations for the celebrations.
盛行的说法是，因为汉族文化是在牧人和山羊占优势的地区发展起来的，所以十二生肖中的羊肯定是山羊。在传统的新年艺术中，山羊也确实颇为常见。但绵羊也有自己的支持者，并且在讨喜的新年卡通装饰物品中，它们已变得更常见。
Zhao Shu, a folklore expert at the Beijing Institute of Culture and History, said in a telephone interview that the debate was silly. The creature in question arose as a general symbol of plenitude and good fortune, partly because the Chinese character yang shares roots with the one for auspiciousness, he said.
北京市文史研究馆的民俗专家赵书在接受电话采访时表示，这种讨论很愚蠢。引发讨论的这种动物之所以成为富足和好运的普遍象征，在一定程度上是因为“羊”这个汉字，与象征吉祥的汉字有同样的组成部分。
If English speakers are caught up on whether it is a sheep or a goat, that is their problem, Mr. Zhao added.
赵书接着说，如果说英语的人不知道生肖羊是绵羊还是山羊，那是他们的事。
“This is ridiculous,” he said. “Goat and sheep are different in French and English, but what’s that got to do with Chinese traditional culture? In French, it’s translated as the Year of the Goat; and in English, it’s the Year of the Sheep.”
“这很可笑，”他说。“山羊和绵羊在法语和英语中意思不同，但这和中国的传统文化有什么关系？在法语里被翻作山羊年，在英语里又被翻成了绵羊年。”
He also drew a lesson about the virtues of Chinese tradition. “In Western culture, things are subdivided into more and more detailed categories, and that’s why Europe has still not been unified after so many years,” he continued. “If you want to say whether it’s goat or sheep, then why not also ask whether it’s a ewe or a ram? But Chinese culture has an inclusive spirit and stresses harmony.”
他还借此宣扬了一番中国传统的优点。“在西方文化中，事物会被细分成越来越详细的类别，这正是欧洲经过这么多年后依然没有统一的原因，”他接着说。“如果要区分是山羊还是绵羊，那为什么不问是母羊还是公羊？但中国文化具有包容精神，强调和谐。”
Mr. Zhao also scoffed at the widespread notion that to be born in the Year of the Sheep, or Goat, is bad news.
赵书还嘲笑了属羊命不好这个流传甚广的说法。