On the 74th floor of the Time Warner Center, Condominium 74B was purchased in 2010 for $15.65 million by a secretive entity called 25CC ST74B L.L.C. It traces to the family of Vitaly Malkin, a former Russian senator and banker who was barred from entering Canada because of suspected connections to organized crime.
2010年，位于时代华纳中心(Time Warner Center)74层编号为74B的共管公寓被以1565万美元（约合9800万元人民币）的价格售出，买主是一家名为25CC ST74B有限公司的秘密实体。该实体可以追溯到前俄罗斯参议员、银行家维塔利·马尔金(Vitaly Malkin)的家族。因为涉嫌与有组织犯罪有关联，马尔金曾被禁止进入加拿大。
Last fall, another shell company bought a condo down the hall for $21.4 million from a Greek businessman named Dimitrios Contominas, who was arrested a year ago as part of a corruption sweep in Greece.
去年秋天，另一家空壳公司出资2140万美元，从名为迪米特里奥斯·孔托米纳斯(Dimitrios Contominas)的希腊商人手里买下了同一楼层的另一套共管公寓。一年前，孔托米纳斯在希腊的一场反腐行动中被捕。
A few floors down are three condos owned by another shell company, Columbus Skyline L.L.C., which belongs to the family of a Chinese businessman and contractor named Wang Wenliang. His construction company was found housing workers in New Jersey in hazardous, unsanitary conditions.
往下几层，是另一家空壳公司“哥伦布天际线”(Columbus Skyline L.L.C.)拥有的三套共管公寓。该公司属于一个名为王文良的中国商人的家族。在新泽西州，这位承包商的建筑公司被发现让工人住在危险且不卫生的地方。
Behind the dark glass towers of the Time Warner Center looming over Central Park, a majority of owners have taken steps to keep their identities hidden, registering condos in trusts, limited liability companies or other entities that shield their names. By piercing the secrecy of more than 200 shell companies, The New York Times documented a decade of ownership in this iconic Manhattan way station for global money transforming the city’s real estate market.
时代华纳中心俯瞰着中央公园。在其装饰着暗色玻璃幕墙的大楼背后，大部分业主竭尽全力地不让自己的身份泄漏，将公寓登记在信托机构、有限责任公司或其他能隐藏他们姓名的实体名下。通过揭开200多家空壳公司的秘密，《纽约时报》记录了曼哈顿这栋标志性建筑十年里的所有权情况。全球资本改变着这座城市的房地产市场，而这里则是供这些资本驻足的一处驿站。
Many of the owners represent a cross-section of American wealth: chief executives and celebrities, doctors and lawyers, technology entrepreneurs and Wall Street traders.
许多业主代表了美国富人阶层的一个横截面：高管和名流，医生和律师，科技行业企业家和华尔街上的操盘手。
But The Times also found a growing proportion of wealthy foreigners, at least 16 of whom have been the subject of government inquiries around the world, either personally or as heads of companies. The cases range from housing and environmental violations to financial fraud. Four owners have been arrested, and another four have been the subject of fines or penalties for illegal activities.
但时报也发现，有钱的外国人所占比例越来越高，其中至少16人是政府调查的对象，不是以个人的身份，就是以公司老板的身份。已有四名业主被捕，另有四人因违法活动而被处以罚款或其他惩戒措施。
The foreign owners have included government officials and close associates of officials from Russia, Colombia, Malaysia, China, Kazakhstan and Mexico.
外国业主包括来自俄罗斯、哥伦比亚、马来西亚、中国、哈萨克斯坦和墨西哥的政府官员及其亲信。
They have been able to make these multimillion-dollar purchases with few questions asked because of United States laws that foster the movement of largely untraceable money through shell companies.
他们得以豪掷数以百万计的美元购买房产却几乎未遭到质疑，是因为美国的法律促进了这些资金的流动。通过空壳公司，这些资金基本上无迹可寻。
Vast sums are flowing unchecked around the world as never before — whether motivated by corruption, tax avoidance or investment strategy, and enabled by an ever-more-borderless economy and a proliferation of ways to move and hide assets.
大量资金正前所未有地在全球不受约束地流动，其动机可能是腐败和避税，也可能是投资战略，而经济越来越不分国界，转移和隐藏资产的途径也在激增，使得这种流动成为可能。
Alighting in places like London, Singapore and other financial centers, this flood of capital has created colonies of the foreign super-rich, with the attendant resentments and controversies about class inequality made tangible in the glass and steel towers reordering urban landscapes.
这股资本洪流来到伦敦、新加坡和其他金融中心，催生了外国超级富人的专属地带，随之而来的是怨恨之情和有关阶级不平等的争议。在重塑城市面貌的玻璃和钢铁大楼里，阶级不平等变得有形起来。
Where it made landfall in New York, in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, was the Time Warner Center. More than a decade on, even as a row of sky-piercing palaces rises on the southern rim of Central Park, the Time Warner Center remains the New York archetype of the global phenomenon, reflecting intertwined trends — the increasing sums of foreign money in high-end real estate and the growing use of shell companies.
在纽约，9·11袭击过后，这股资本洪流选择了时代华纳中心作为着陆地。即便十多年过去了，中央公园的南边也建起了一排摩天大楼，时代华纳中心一直是这种全球化现象在纽约的典型代表，反映了相互交织的趋势：流入高端房地产市场的外国资金日越来越多，使用空壳公司的做法愈演愈烈。
About $8 billion is spent each year for New York City residences that cost more than $5 million each, more than triple the amount of a decade ago, according to the website PropertyShark. Just over half of those sales last year were to shell companies.
根据PropertyShark网站的数据，纽约市售价超过500万美元的共管公寓每年的销售额为80亿美元左右，是10年前水平的三倍还多。去年售出的此类共管公寓中，超过一半被卖给了空壳公司。
The Times examination reveals the workings of an opaque economy for this global wealth. Lacking incentive or legal obligation to identify the sources of money, an entire chain of people involved in high-end real estate sales — lawyers, accountants, title brokers, escrow agents, real estate agents, condo boards and building workers — often operate with blinders on. As Rudy Tauscher, a former manager of the condos at Time Warner, said: “The building doesn’t know where the money is coming from. We’re not interested.”
时报的研究结果揭示了一个不透明的经济体获取海外财富的运作机制。由于缺乏相应的动机，也没有法律上的义务，参与高端房产销售的一系列人员——律师、会计、经纪商、代管代理、房地产中介、公管公寓董事会和建筑工人——通常对自己职责之外的情况一无所知。正如时代华纳中心前公管公寓管理者鲁迪·陶舍尔(Rudy Tauscher)所说：“大楼里的工作人员不知道钱是从哪来的，我们也不感兴趣。”
As an indication of how well-cloaked shell company ownership is, it took The Times more than a year to unravel the ownership of shell companies with condos in the Time Warner Center, by searching business and court records from more than 20 countries, interviewing dozens of people with close knowledge of the complex, examining hundreds of property records and connecting the dots from lawyers or relatives named on deeds to the actual buyers.
空壳公司的所有权结构被掩盖得密不透风：为了揭开在时代华纳中心拥有共管公寓的空壳公司的所有权结构，时报花了超过一年的时间，搜索了20多个国家的商业和法庭记录，采访了数十位了解该楼盘的人士，研究了数以百计的公开地产记录，将出现在房契上的律师或亲属姓名与真正的买主对应了起来。
Yet in some cases it is nearly impossible to establish with certainty the source of money behind shell companies. Purchasers can register shell companies in the names of accountants, lawyers or relatives. Purchases are often made not just by individuals but on behalf of groups of investors or numerous family members, further obscuring the origin of the funds. What is more, ownership of shell companies can be shifted at any time, with no indication in property records.
然而有些时候，要想确定空壳公司背后的资金来源几乎是不可能的。购房者可以使用会计、律师或亲属的名字来注册一家空壳公司。购买公寓的通常不光是个人，还有投资者团体和大量的购房者家庭成员，这让购房资金的来源变得更加模糊。此外，空壳公司的所有权可以随时转移，不会显示在房产记录上。
The high-end real estate market has become less and less transparent — and more alluring for those abroad with assets they wish to keep anonymous — even as the United States pushes other nations to help stanch the flow of American money leaving the country to avoid taxes. Yet for all the concerns of law enforcement officials that shell companies can hide illicit gains, regulatory efforts to require more openness from these companies have failed.
高端房地产市场已经变得越来越不透明，对于想要隐瞒财富的海外人士也更加具有吸引力，虽然与此同时，美国正在敦促其他国家帮助自己止住以避税为目的的资金外流。尽管执法官员非常担心空壳公司为非法所得提供了掩护，要求更大公开性的努力都未获成功。
“We like the money,” said Raymond Baker, the president of Global Financial Integrity, a Washington nonprofit that tracks the illicit flow of money. “It’s that simple. We like the money that comes into our accounts, and we are not nearly as judgmental about it as we should be.”
“他们就是想赚钱，”华盛顿的非营利机构全球金融诚信组织(Global Financial Integrity)的负责人雷蒙德·贝克(Raymond Baker)说。该机构会对非法资金的流动进行追踪。“就这么简单。他们喜欢别人把钱打进自己的账户里，因此就不会像平常一样严格。”
In some ways, officials are clamoring for the foreign wealthy. In New York, tax breaks for condominium developments benefit owners looking for a second, or third, residence in one of Manhattan’s premier buildings. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said on his weekly radio program in 2013, shortly before leaving office: “If we could get every billionaire around the world to move here, it would be a godsend.”
在一些方面，政府正在竭尽全力地吸引外国的富人。在纽约，从共管公寓开发项目的税收优惠中受益的，是那些想要在曼哈顿的高档建筑内寻找第二套或第三套住宅的人。2013年，在即将卸任之际，纽约市长迈克尔·R·布隆伯格(Michael R. Bloomberg)在自己每周的广播节目中说：“如果我们能让全世界的亿万富翁都搬到这座城市来，那可真是天大的好事。”
Among the Time Warner Center owners identified by The Times are at least 17 billionaires on Forbes magazine’s annual list of the world’s richest people. Five of the world’s leading art collectors own units, as do eight people who have been chief executives of major companies. And it has been home to numerous celebrities, including the singers Jimmy Buffett and Ricky Martin, the New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady and the talk show host Kelly Ripa.
在时报查明身份的时代华纳中心公寓的业主中，有至少17位曾登上《福布斯》(Forbes)杂志的年度富豪榜。五位世界顶尖的艺术收藏家，以及八位大型公司的首席高管拥有时代华纳中心的单位。这里还居住过大量名人，包括歌手吉米·巴菲特(Jimmy Buffett)和瑞奇·马丁(Ricky Martin)，新英格兰爱国者队的四分卫汤姆·布雷迪(Tome Brady)，以及脱口秀节目主持人凯莉·里帕(Kelly Ripa)。
A look behind some doors revealed more complicated tales.
有些公寓的主人还有着更为复杂的背景。
Units 72B and 51E are owned by the Amantea Corporation, which The Times traced to a mining magnate named Anil Agarwal. His company was fined for polluting a major river near a copper mine in Zambia, which sickened nearby residents. And judicial committees in his native India determined that his company had violated the land rights of an indigenous tribe near a proposed mine.
公寓72B和51E的所有者是Amantea Corporation，时报发现，这家公司的所有者是来自印度的矿业巨头安尼尔·阿加瓦尔(Anil Agarwal)。阿加瓦尔的公司污染了赞比亚一处铜矿附近的主要河流，导致周围的居民患病，因此遭到罚款。此外，印度本国的一个司法委员会认定，他的公司侵犯了一个土著部落的土地权利，只因为该部落妨碍了采矿活动。
When Anna Ai Fang purchased Condominium 58E in 2004 for $2.1 million, the forwarding address on the deed was a decidedly more modest location: her dorm, Ruggles Hall, at Columbia University. At the time, her father, Fang Fenglei, had ended a long career running state-affiliated banks in China and would soon begin working for Goldman Sachs.
当方爱之(Anna Ai Fang)2004年以210万美元的价格购买了公寓58E时，她在房契上填写的转收地址绝对是相当低调，那是她在哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)拉格尔斯厅(Ruggles Hall)的宿舍。当时，她的父亲方风雷已经结束了在多家中国国有银行的漫长职业生涯，很快将入职高盛(Goldman Sachs)。
Unit 62CE belongs to Prime International Management Group, which in turn is controlled by Alexander Varshavsky, who runs auto dealerships in Russia.
公寓62CE的所有方是Prime International Management Group，该集团由亚历山大·瓦尔沙夫斯基(Alexander Varshavsky)所掌控。此人在俄罗斯经营着多家汽车销售公司。
Few, if any, questions were raised by those involved in the deal when Mr. Varshavsky paid cash for the 4,300-square-foot apartment. But his condo shopping did not go unnoticed.
当瓦尔沙夫斯基用现金全款购买了这套面积4300平方英尺的公寓时，参与这笔交易的人员几乎没有提出任何疑问。不过，他购买共管公寓的举动并非没有引起注意。
“Agents observed defendant Varshavsky enter several buildings in the Central Park area with a real estate agent, including 25 Columbus Circle, New York, New York,” according to a criminal complaint filed in federal court in Newark, recounting surveillance by federal agents at the Time Warner Center. “In June 2011 defendant Varshavsky purchased an apartment located at that address for approximately $20.5 million in cash.”
“一些特工发现，被告瓦尔沙夫斯基与一名房地产中介进入了中央公园区域的几栋大楼里，包括纽约州纽约市哥伦布环岛(Columbus Circle)的25号楼，”纽瓦克联邦法院收到的一份刑事诉状上说。这份诉状记录了联邦特工在时代华纳中心的监视活动。“2011年6月，被告瓦尔沙夫斯基以大约2050万美元的价格，现金全款购买了那里的一套公寓。”
In December 2013, Mr. Varshavsky, who is now a United States citizen, was charged with failing to report the existence of a foreign bank account. A lawyer for Mr. Varshavsky disputed the allegations and said he expected the complaint to be dropped.
瓦尔沙夫斯基现在是美国公民。2013年12月，他被指控隐瞒了自己的一个海外银行账户。瓦尔沙夫斯基的一名律师否认了这些指控，并表示预计这项控诉将会被撤销。
Meanwhile the case is pending, and Mr. Varshavsky posted bail — his Time Warner condo.
在案子等待判决期间，瓦尔沙夫斯基为获得保释抵押了他在时代华纳中心的公寓。
Ownership Becomes Opaque
神秘的所有权
It was not all that long ago that Columbus Circle was the makeshift residence of dozens of homeless people squatting at the site of the abandoned New York Coliseum, the Robert Moses-era convention center.
就在不久之前，哥伦布环岛还曾是几十名流浪者的临时住所，他们占据了纽约会议中心(New York Coliseum)的遗址，那里是罗伯特·摩斯(Robert Moses)时代举行会议的地方。
The demolition of the coliseum and the creation of the Time Warner Center — two residential towers with a retail atrium, corporate offices and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel — transformed the area into a vibrant shopping and dining destination in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks. The condos also sparked development of a billionaires row of residential towers overlooking Central Park.
在9·11袭击之后，这座会议中心的拆除和时代华纳中心的落成把该地区变成了一个繁忙的购物餐饮中心。时代华纳中心包括两栋高层公寓建筑，中庭是一些零售商店，楼内还有企业办公室以及文华东方酒店(Mandarin Oriental Hotel)。这些共管公寓引领了一系列俯瞰中央公园的豪华住宅楼的开发。
By marketing the condos to wealthy foreigners, Time Warner’s developer was at the forefront of luring cash from overseas to New York real estate. Twenty-six percent of the original sales were to people from other countries, a proportion that has grown to more than half among recent buyers. The complex’s dark glass exterior offers a sheen of both exclusivity and secrecy.
通过把这些共管公寓推销给富有的国际买家，时代华纳的开发商站在了为纽约地产行业吸引海外资金的前沿。新公寓首次出售时，26%被卖给了海外买家，这个比例目前已经增长到了超过一半 。建筑外的深色玻璃幕墙为公寓的专属性和私密性提供了保障。
It is no more transparent inside. There are no door buzzers or mail slots with residents’ names. You are unlikely to bump into neighbors wandering the halls because only about a third of the owners live there at any one time, according to people familiar with their comings and goings. The building’s annual holiday party is a lonely affair, they say.
而建筑内部一样不甚透明。当你走进时代华纳中心的共管公寓范围内，你会发现这里既没有门铃，也没有带有户主姓名的信箱。熟悉户主出入情况的人说，你不太可能在走廊里撞见闲逛的邻居，因为无论何时都只有大约三分之一的业主住在公寓里。他们说，大楼每年的节日聚会都冷冷清清。
“It’s a really closely guarded secret who is in that building,” said Al D’Elia, an architect who has worked there. “It’s just the way they treat you, what you have to do to get in the building.”
曾经在那里工作的建筑师阿尔·德埃利亚(Al D’Elia)说，“那栋大楼里究竟住了什么人，简直就是一个被严格保守的秘密，”曾经在那里工作的建筑师阿尔·德埃利亚(Al D’Elia)说，“从他们接待你的方式，进入大楼的手续就能看出来。”
The hallways are spare, but many apartments are loaded with the sort of amenities that have become standard in luxury real estate: panoramic views, stone bathtubs and custom everything — sound systems, millwork, lighting fixtures.
走廊里空空如也，但许多公寓里的设施则符合豪宅的标准配置：开阔的视野、石材浴缸，全部家当都是订做的——音响系统、木制门窗、照明装置。
Even the numbering of the floors was a bit of upwardly mobile sleight of hand, calibrated to enhance the perception of what the developer, the Related Companies, marketed as “Five Star Living.” So, the 80th-floor penthouses are actually on 53.
就连楼层的编号方式也别出心裁，强化了开发商Related Companies提出的“五星级居住环境”的营销概念。因此，标注为第80层的顶层公寓实际上是在53层。
The building’s layout and protocols facilitate anonymity. There are multiple entrances to its 192 condos — not just through the two towers’ main doors, but also through an adjacent parking garage and through the Time Warner Center shops. And while the building has a book listing the names of people associated with units, the owners do not have to be listed for them to get access to the building. They could walk in alongside someone whose name is in the book. Or, if they are cleared to visit, they could enter the complex through the shops or the hotel, and then take the secure elevators to the condos.
大楼的格局和规则也为业主隐藏身份信息提供了便利。这192套共管公寓有多个入口——不光是两栋大楼的大门，还可以通过一个附近的车库，以及时代华纳中心内的商铺进入。尽管物业有一本与各单元有关的人员名册，业主们没有把名字录进去同样可以进入楼内。他们可以和名字在手册上的人一起进入大楼，也可以通过商铺或酒店进入大楼，然后乘坐安全电梯进入公寓，只要一名业主说他们是访客就可以。
“An owner could be obscured from our view,” said David Spector, who helped manage the condos until 2011.
“业主完全可以避开我们的视线，”2011年之前参与管理这些公寓的戴维·斯佩克特(David Spector)说。 
Over the decade since the Time Warner condos came on the market, high-end real estate sales in general have become increasingly opaque. In 2003, one-third of the units sold in Time Warner were purchased by shell companies. By 2014, that figure was over 80 percent.
在时代华纳中心的这些公寓挂牌销售以来的10年里，高端房地产销售整体上已经变得越来越不透明。2003年，时代华纳中心售出的所有单位中，超过三分之一被空壳公司所购买。到了2014年，这个比例超过了80%。
Across the United States in recent years, nearly half the residential purchases of over $5 million were made by shell companies rather than named people, according to data from First American Data Tree analyzed by The Times.
时报分析的First American Data Tree的数据显示，最近几年，在美国各地超过500万美元的住宅交易中，将近一半的买主是空壳公司，而不是实名的个人 。
Public records, dating back to at least the 1800s in New York, set real estate apart as more transparent than bank accounts or stock portfolios. “There’s a whole Jeffersonian rhetoric about land ownership,” said Hendrik Hartog, a professor of the history of American law at Princeton. “There was a goal to make land transparent, and it was justified by civic values and a whole range of moral judgments like not hiding ownership.”
一些可以至少追溯到19世纪的公开记录曾显示房地产交易比银行账户或股票投资更为透明。“对于土地所有制有着杰斐逊式的表述，”普林斯顿大学美国法律史教授亨德里克·哈托格(Hendrik Hartog)说，“目标是让土地透明，支撑这个目标的是公民价值，以及不应该隐瞒土地所有权这样的一系列道德判断。”
One type of corporate structure now commonly used in real estate transactions, limited liability companies, or L.L.C.s, did not even exist in the United States before the late 1970s. At first, they were primarily used by oil and gas traders in Wyoming to shield individual owners from liability — if, say, a well worker was hurt — and to avoid taxation of both the company and the investor.
有限责任公司是目前在房产交易中被普遍使用的一种公司结构，这种结构直到上世纪70年代之后才在美国出现。起初，使用这种公司结构的主要是怀俄明州的油气交易商，目的是让公司的所有者免除责任——比如在矿井工人受伤时——以及避免政府对公司和投资者征税。
Nothing in the genesis of limited liability companies suggested they would be used to purchase personal real estate, said Susan Pace Hamill, a University of Alabama professor who worked on L.L.C. policy while at the Internal Revenue Service in the 1990s. However, L.L.C.s are now commonly used in real estate for privacy, wealth transfer or shared ownership.
阿拉巴马大学(University of Alabama)教授苏珊·佩斯·哈米尔(Susan Pace Hamill)说，有限责任公司诞生伊始，并没有哪一点显示它将被用来购买个人房产。她上世纪90年代曾在美国国税局(Internal Revenue Service)研究过有限责任公司的政策。然而目前，有限责任公司在房地产领域被普遍用来保护隐私、转移财富或是分享所有权。
What becomes clear combing real estate records is that many Time Warner buyers have taken even greater steps, beyond using L.L.C.s, to keep their names out of sight. On many deeds, the line for the buyer’s signature is left blank, is illegible or is signed by a lawyer or other representative. Phone numbers are registered under lawyers’ names; the owner’s line on renovation permits is signed by Time Warner staff members; tax statements are addressed to the L.L.C.s.
在对房地产记录的梳理中，我们可以清晰地发现，除了使用有限责任公司进行交易，为了隐藏自己的身份，时代华纳中心的许多业主还动用了更多办法。在许多房契上，购买者的签名一栏都是空白的、难以辨认的，或者由律师及其他代表代签的。可能会透露业主真实信息的公开记录中则充满了虚假信息。电话号码是用律师的名字申请的；提交给纽约楼宇局(New York’s Department of Buildings)的维修表格上的业主信息是时代华纳的员工代签的；税务报表上的地址则写着有限责任公司的名字。
And because most of the sales are in cash, there are few mortgage statements, another public document that might identify an owner or trigger scrutiny.
由于多数交易是现金全款购买，几乎没有按揭贷款的单据。此类单据本来是另一种可能透露业主信息或引发严密审视的公开记录。
A spokeswoman for the Related Companies, Joanna Rose, said the developer had followed all federal and local laws in its sales at the Time Warner Center, adding, “With all of our sales, we know the identity of the purchasers.”
Related Companies的发言人乔安娜·罗斯(Joanna Rose)说，在时代华纳中心公寓的销售中，开发商遵守了所有联邦和地方法律。她补充说，“对于每一笔交易，我们都了解了购房者的身份信息。”
However, documents and interviews with a half-dozen people involved in the sales show that in many cases, the company did not know the actual source of the money behind the sales.
然而，对参与公寓销售的六名工作人员的采访以及一些文件显示，在许多时候，公司并不知道交易背后的真实的资金来源。
David J. Wine, the former vice chairman of the Related Companies, spoke bluntly of the lack of concern with buyers’ identities. “You pretty much go by financial capacity,” Mr. Wine said. “Can they afford it? They sign the contract, they put their money down with no contingency and they close. They have to show the money, and that is it. I don’t think you will find a single new developer where it’s different.”
Related Companies的前副董事长戴维·J·瓦恩(David J. Wine)直言不讳地表示，他们并不在乎购房者的身份 。“你主要是看他们的财务实力，”瓦恩说，“他们买得起吗？他们签了合同，交了钱，交易就完成了。他们必须证明自己有钱，这是最重要的。我不认为哪个开发商会有不同的做法。
Real estate agents say commitment to anonymity is essential. “One thing of being a high-end broker is we have to protect the privacy of our clients,” said Hall F. Willkie, president of Brown Harris Stevens. “If we didn’t, we wouldn’t have them as clients. We’re very much like private bankers in that sense.”
房地产中介称，隐私方面的承诺十分重要。“作为一名高端经纪商就意味着，我们必须保护客户的隐私，”Brown Harris Stevens公司的总裁哈尔·F·威尔基(Hall F. Willkie)说。“如果我们不这样做，我们就不能得到这些客户。从这个意义上讲，我们很像私人银行家。”
The shift to secrecy also reflects a fundamental change in the ownership structure of luxury real estate in New York. Many of Manhattan’s finest addresses were traditionally organized as co-ops in which residents were joint owners of the building. Co-op boards generally prefer full-time residents and often subject would-be buyers to excruciating scrutiny.
向保密做法的转变反映出纽约房地产所有权结构的根本性变化。曼哈顿许多最好的地段传统上一直以合作公寓的方式进行管理，在合作公寓，居民是建筑的共同所有者。合作公寓委员会一般倾向于长期的住户，有意购买合作公寓的买家需要接受严格的审查。
“Those co-ops wouldn’t accept billionaires, especially foreigners,” said Raphael De Niro, a broker at Douglas Elliman.
“这些合作公寓不接受亿万富豪，尤其是海外买家，”道格拉斯·埃利曼公司(Douglas Elliman)的经纪商拉斐尔·德尼罗(Raphael De Niro)说。
By contrast, Time Warner and most new luxury buildings are condos; residents own individual units and boards have less power to screen prospective buyers. In addition, at the Time Warner Center and many other buildings, if a condo board rejects a buyer, building rules say all the residents have to chip in to buy the unit, creating a disincentive for the board to be too picky.
相比之下，时代华纳和多数最新的豪华建筑是共管公寓；住户拥有独立的单位，委员会没有那么大的权力对潜在买家进行筛查。除此之外， 时代华纳中心和其他许多楼盘的规定是，如果公寓委员会拒绝一位买家， 所有住户需要凑钱买下这个单位， 因此委员会不会太挑剔。
“That’s the joy of the condos,” said Julie Maxey-Allison, an agent for Brown Harris Stevens. “That’s why the L.L.C.s buy them. It’s a way foreigners can do whatever they want here.”
“这就是共管公寓让人高兴的地方，”Brown Harris Stevens的房产中介朱莉·马克西-艾利森(Julie Maxey-Allison)说。“正是这个原因，一些有限责任公司会购买它们。这样的话，海外买家想怎么样都可以。”
In fact, interviews show, condo boards are not always aware of the individuals behind the shell companies.
事实上，一些采访显示，共管公寓委员会并不总是清楚空壳公司背后的具体个人是谁。
Seamus McMahon, a former Time Warner owner, said he had no idea units were sold to members of the Saudi royal family while he was on the board in 2006, including one connected to Princess Haifa bint Faisal, the daughter of a former Saudi king, and her husband, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the former ambassador to the United States. A few years earlier, Princess Haifa had been in the news because of reports that some of her money had gone to a figure who aided the Sept. 11 hijackers. (The United States commission that investigated the attacks found no evidence that the money assisted the hijackers, either directly or indirectly.)
曾是时代华纳中心业主的谢默斯·麦克马洪(Seamus McMahon)表示，自己2006年担任委员期间，并不知道有公寓被卖给了沙特的王室成员，包括与沙特前国王之女海法·宾特·费萨尔公主(Haifa bint Faisal)及其夫、前沙特驻美国大使班达尔·本·苏丹王子(Bandar bin Sultan)有关联的一套。早前几年，因为有报道称，海法公主的部分资金流向了一个为9·11事件中的劫机者提供援助的人，她受到了新闻媒体的关注。（美国负责调查9·11袭击的委员会并未发现相关资金为劫机者提供了帮助的证据，不管是以直接还是间接的方式。）
Mr. McMahon said the Related Companies did not usually share details about buyers with board members and did not inform them of the Saudi sale. “They probably asked to keep it quiet,” he said, referring to the Saudis. “Related would have kept it quiet.”
麦克马洪说，Related Companies公司通常不会将买主的详细情况向委员们通报，也没有通知他们与沙特王室成员达成的那笔交易。“他们可能要求保密，”他指的是那对沙特王室夫妇。“Related Companies也会乐于保密的。”
Behind Door 74B
74B房间的内情
When the company with the complicated name of 25CC ST74B plunked down $15.65 million in 2010 for a condo in the Time Warner Center, there was no telling whose money was in play.
当名字复杂的25CC ST74B公司在2010年豪掷1565万美元，买下时代华纳中心的那套共管公寓时，没有出现和出资方有关的信息。
But in January 2013, the company accused a contractor of overbilling in a classic New York City renovation dispute. The lawsuit identified the apartment’s owner as “Vitaly Malkin, a Russian senator who is domiciled in Russia and generally is not present in New York.” Less than two weeks later, a new complaint was filed with a change: It now said the apartment was owned by a trust whose beneficiaries included Mr. Malkin’s son, Leonid, and that Mr. Malkin was neither a trustee nor a beneficiary of the trust.
但2013年1月，该公司控告一家承包商要价过高，这是纽约市一桩经典的翻修纠纷。在该案中，公寓的所有人被指是“定居在俄罗斯，通常都不在纽约的俄罗斯参议员维塔利·马尔金”。过了不到两周，当事人重新提起诉讼，此时一个细节发生了变化：起诉书称公寓的所有人是某信托基金，其受益人包括马尔金之子列昂尼德(Leonid)，马尔金既不是基金的受托人，也不是受益人。
In a deposition, a former employee of the contractor said that while he understood that the client was “the senator, the Russian oligarch,” he was not allowed to refer to the client by name. If he did use the family name, he said he was reprimanded and told “to make sure I just used 25CC.”
该承包商的一名前雇员在证词中表示，他明白客户是“那名俄罗斯寡头参议员”，但他不能提这名客户的姓名。他说，如果真的用了对方的姓氏，他会被训斥，并被告知“一定只能提25CC”。
In fact, Vitaly Malkin had been in public view for more than a decade, sometimes tied to controversy.
实际上，在十多年的时间里，维塔利·马尔金一直处于公众视野中，而且有时会牵扯争议。
Mr. Malkin, 62, made a fortune in metals and banking and was one of the wealthiest members of the Federation Council, Russia’s upper legislative house. He resigned from the Council in March 2013 after Aleksei Navalny, the Russian anticorruption activist, revealed that he had failed to disclose property he owned in Canada and that he had dual Israeli citizenship.
今年62岁的马尔金在金属产业和银行业发家，是俄罗斯议会上院联邦委员会(Federation Council)最富有的议员之一。2013年3月，俄罗斯博客作者、活动人士阿列克谢·纳瓦尔尼(Aleksei Navalny)指出，马尔金没有公开其在加拿大拥有房产，并持有俄罗斯和以色列双重国籍。之后，马尔金退出了联邦委员会。
But the case that has dogged Mr. Malkin involves a 1996 deal to restructure Angola’s $5 billion debt to Russia, an arrangement that has become a symbol of official plundering in Africa among anticorruption advocates.
但困扰马尔金的事件涉及1996年的一项协议，内容是对安哥拉欠俄罗斯的50亿美元债务进行重组。在反腐倡导人士当中，这一安排成了官方在非洲掠夺财富的象征。
The debt, incurred during Angola’s long civil war, was cut to $1.5 billion in a deal partly negotiated by Arcadi Gaydamak, a Russian-born businessman. But the debt payment was conveyed through an intermediary company in which Mr. Malkin had a share, according to documents from the Canadian government and Swiss investigators.
在该协议中，安哥拉在长期的内战期间欠下的这笔债务，被减免至15亿美元。协议在一定程度上是由生于俄罗斯的商人阿尔卡季·盖伊达马克(Arcadi Gaydamak)促成的。但加拿大政府和瑞士调查机构的文件显示，债务偿付是通过一家中介公司进行的，而马尔金持有该公司的股份。
When Angola paid the debt, Mr. Gaydamak received $130 million of the payment and Mr. Malkin received $48.8 million, the documents show. A portion also went to various Angolan officials, including President José Eduardo dos Santos, who received $36 million, according to a report by the advocacy group Corruption Watch.
文件显示，安哥拉偿还了这笔债务后，盖伊达马克从中得到了1.3亿美元，马尔金获得了4880万美元。倡导团体腐败观察(Corruption Watch)发布的一份报告显示，还有一部分流向了众多安哥拉官员，包括获得了3600万美元的安哥拉总统若泽·爱德华多·多斯桑托斯(José Eduardo dos Santos)。
Mr. dos Santos and Mr. Gaydamak did not respond to inquiries from The Times.
多斯桑托斯和盖伊达马克没有回应时报的询问。
“Everyone knew exactly what happened,” Rafael Marques, an Angolan journalist and activist, said of the payment to the president. “That money was for personal enrichment. They were kickbacks.”
“所有人都知道到底发生了什么，”安哥拉记者兼活动人士拉斐尔·马克斯(Rafael Marques)在谈论总统得到的那笔钱时说。“那笔钱被用于个人牟利。就是回扣。”
The episode became an issue for Mr. Malkin in 2007, when he tried to gain entry to Canada, where he had business interests. Two years earlier, a Canadian immigration official had deemed Mr. Malkin “inadmissible,” writing that he had “massively misrepresented” his net worth and how he obtained his assets, according to court documents obtained by The Times.
2007年，当马尔金申请加拿大的入境许可时，此事成了一个问题。马尔金在加拿大有商业利益。时报得到的法庭文件显示，早前两年，加拿大的一名移民官员认为马尔金属于“不得入境”的人员，并写道他“严重谎报”自己的净资产，以及是如何取得这些资产的。
When Mr. Malkin reapplied in 2007, among the issues was his role as Mr. Gaydamak’s banker in the Angola debt deal, the documents show. In addition to facing questions in the debt deal, Mr. Gaydamak was under investigation in France in connection with arms sales to the Angolan government. He was later sentenced to three years in a French prison for money laundering and tax fraud.
相关文件显示，马尔金2007年再次申请时，出问题的是他长期为盖伊达马克打理银行事务这件事。除了因为前述债务协议而受到质疑外，盖伊达马克还因为涉嫌参与面向安哥拉政府的武器销售，而受到法国的调查。后来，他因洗钱和税务欺诈而被判在法国一所监狱服刑三年。
Canadian immigration officials again declared Mr. Malkin inadmissible, this time because of what they called an “extended association with persons suspected to be involved in organized crime and money laundering.”
加拿大移民官员再次宣布马尔金不得入境，并表示这一次是因为马尔金“与涉嫌参与有组织犯罪和洗钱的人员有广泛联系”。
In court papers, Mr. Malkin vehemently denied involvement in organized crime, calling the allegations by the Canadian authorities unsupported and noting that he had been free to travel to other countries. Mr. Malkin sued the Canadian authorities, and in June 2009 a judge ruled that the case should be reviewed because Mr. Malkin had not been given a chance to respond to the allegations.
法庭文件显示，马尔金极力否认参与了有组织犯罪，称加拿大当局的说法没有依据，并指出自己前往其他国家时皆畅通无阻。马尔金起诉了加拿大当局，2009年6月，一名法官裁定应对该案进行重审，因为马尔金早前没有回应相关指控的机会。
Mr. Malkin was allowed to visit Canada in 2012, his lawyer, Gregory Sidlofsky of Toronto, said in an email, adding, “Canadian authorities never had nor provided any evidence of any wrongdoing by Mr. Malkin.” In the Angola debt case, he said, Swiss investigators ultimately found no wrongdoing. Mr. Sidlofsky said the $48.8 million was a dividend reflecting his client’s share of the intermediary company. As for the long-running renovation of the Time Warner condo, he said, “Mr. Malkin does not own the apartment, nor has he had any recent involvement in the renovation.”
马尔金在多伦多的律师格雷戈里·希德洛夫斯基(Gregory Sidlofsky)在电子邮件中说，马尔金于2012年获许进入加拿大，并表示，“加拿大当局从未掌握或提供任何证据，表明马尔金有任何不端行为。”他说，在安哥拉债务一事中，瑞士调查结构最终也并未发现马尔金有不端行为。他说，那4880万美元是其当事人在该公司所持股份带来的分红。至于时代华纳中心那套共管公寓长时间翻修一事，他表示，“马尔金不是那处公寓的所有人，近期也未参与任何翻修。”
The American Bar Association suggests that government officials like Mr. Malkin warrant enhanced scrutiny in real estate deals, but its guidelines are voluntary. Marc Isaacs, the New York lawyer who handled the condo purchase, said his firm’s client vetting goes beyond an online search, but he would not elaborate. Asked about Mr. Malkin, Mr. Isaacs said he could not discuss specific clients.
美国律师协会(American Bar Association)表示，在房地产交易中，肯定应该对马尔金这样的政府官员给予更密切的关注，但该机构的指导方针是自愿执行的。经手那宗共管公寓交易的纽约律师马克·伊萨克斯(Marc Isaacs)表示，他所在的律所对客户的审核不只是在线搜索而已，但他不愿详细解释。在被问及马尔金时，伊萨克斯表示自己不能讨论某个具体客户。
The real estate agents on the Time Warner deal included Brenda S. Powers and Elizabeth L. Sample, who represent many foreign clients and who live in the building. Ms. Sample said that her focus when vetting buyers was this: “They have to have the money. Other than that, that’s it. That’s all we need.”
负责时代华纳中心那笔交易的房产经纪是布伦达·S·鲍尔斯(Brenda S. Powers)和伊丽莎白·L·桑普尔(Elizabeth L. Sample)，她们就住在楼里，代理了许多外国客户。桑普尔表示，在审核买家时她关注的重点是：“他们必须要有买房的钱。其他的就算了。我们只需要知道这一点。”
A Blind Eye
不闻不问
Federal banking guidelines are clear: “Banks should take all reasonable steps to ensure that they do not knowingly or unwittingly assist in hiding or moving the proceeds of corruption.” This means screening customers to determine whether they are “politically exposed people” — foreign officials and their relatives and associates — and filing a “suspicious activity report” if the customers transfer unusually large amounts of money.
联邦银行业指导原则说得很明白：“银行应采取一切合理措施，确保不会在有意或无意中，协助隐藏或转移外国高级政治人物及其亲友通过腐败获得的收入”。也就是说，银行应对客户进行审查，查明他们是否是“政治敏感人物”——外国官员及其亲友——并在客户转移巨额资金时，提交“可疑活动报告”。
But such checks are not required on money flowing into the country through shell companies to purchase high-end real estate.
但通过空壳公司流入美国并购买高端房地产的资金，并未被要求接受这类审查。
L.L.C.s and other entities can be established in various states without revealing their true owners. Even when such companies move money through a bank account, banks are not required to know who is behind the transaction because of a loophole in the law.
在很多州，有限公司和其他企业实体成立时都可以不透露其实际所有人。因为法律漏洞，即便在这类公司通过银行账户转移资金时，银行也未被要求知晓相关交易的背后都有什么人。
In many ways, the government has allowed the real estate industry to turn a blind eye to the source of money used to buy luxury properties.
在很多方面，政府允许房地产行业对购买豪华房地产的资金的来源不闻不问。
It might not have turned out this way. In the late 1990s, after congressional hearings highlighted corrupt foreign officials with money in the United States, the Justice Department sought to expand the list of industries required to screen the financial activities of politically exposed people. That included jewelry sales, hedge funds and real estate.
这种局面本来可以避免。上世纪90年代末，在多次国会听证会让外国腐败官员将钱转移至美国的问题突显出来后，司法部(Justice Department)寻求扩充行业名单，要求被列入名单的行业审查政治敏感人物的财务活动。该名单本应包括珠宝商、对冲基金和房地产商。
The proposal gained momentum after Sept. 11, when the Justice Department pushed to make it part of the Patriot Act. The rules were included in the law and handed to the Treasury Department to put into effect.
9·11事件后，这项提案赢得了更多的支持。司法部推动其成为《爱国者法案》(Patriot Act)的一部分。相关规定被写进了法律，并被转交给财政部执行。
The real estate and legal professions sprang into action, arguing that background checks were impractical and would hurt the economy. “The money-laundering risks presented by real estate closings are relatively small, compared to other types of financial assets,” the American Land Title Association said in comments on the proposed rules.
房地产和法律行业迅速行动起来，声称背景审查不切实际，且会损害经济。“和其他类型的金融资产相比，房地产交易带来的洗钱风险相对较小，”美国土地产权协会(American Land Title Association)在对监管规则提案的意见书中说。
Businesses insisted that tainted money was not likely to flow into real estate. “Anonymity and liquidity, two characteristics important to money launderers, typically do not exist in real estate transactions,” the Dechert law firm wrote.
相关企业则坚称，不法资金不太可能流入房地产市场。“对洗钱者十分重要的匿名和流动性这两个特征，在房地产交易中往往不存在，”德杰律师事务所(Dechert)写道。
The industry’s assertions ignored the increasing use of shell companies and how often wealthy foreigners sought out high-end real estate as a safe deposit box.
该行业的论断忽略了空壳公司的使用越来越普遍，以及富有的外国人常寻找高端房地产，将其作为安全的存款箱。
At the Time Warner Center, for instance, at least a dozen purchases would have received greater scrutiny under the expanded rules.
比如，在时代华纳中心，若按照扩充后的规定，至少有12笔交易本应受到更严格的审查。
But the Treasury Department never imposed the requirement on real estate or some other industries. Similarly, a proposal to extend the concept of the “know your customer” banking rule to the identities of people behind L.L.C.s and other shell companies that open bank accounts has been stalled for nearly three years in the Treasury Department.
但财政部从未对房地产或其他行业实行这一要求。同样地，另一项提议也已在财政部搁置了近三年。该提议要求将有限公司及其他开设银行账户的空壳公司背后的人的身份，纳入银行业“了解客户”规定的范围。
Banking associations say it would impose undue costs on them because there are no reliable federal or state databases with shell company owners.
银行业协会表示，这么做会给它们带来高昂的成本，因为没有可靠的联邦或州一级空壳公司所有人数据库。
In fact, registering shell companies has become profitable for states like Delaware and Nevada, which also have lobbied against transparency.
实际上，对游说反对透明的特拉华和内华达等州来说，注册空壳公司已变得有利可图。
“I don’t see some kind of global effort to stop all this because the money’s too good,” said David M. Crane, a Syracuse University law professor who oversaw the United Nations’ effort to recover money from Charles Taylor, the former Liberian president who was convicted of war crimes and thought to have plundered his country.
“我没看到有某种全球范围的努力来阻止这一切的迹象，因为收益实在太大了，”雪城大学(Syracuse University)法学教授戴维·M·克兰(David M. Crane)说。他曾经负责监督联合国从利比里亚前总统查尔斯·泰勒(Charles Taylor)那里追回资金的工作。泰勒被裁定犯有战争罪，还被外界认为对利比里亚进行了大肆掠夺。
A number of states do not require people forming companies to reveal the names of the owners or show any identification.
美国很多州并不要求开办公司的人透露所有者的姓名，或出示任何身份证件。
This opacity presents challenges for law enforcement officials, who say billions of dollars in suspicious money move through shell companies each year. “It can be very, very difficult to penetrate who is the beneficial owner of these shell companies,” said Leslie R. Caldwell, chief of the Justice Department’s criminal division.
这种不透明性对执法人员提出了挑战。美国司法部透露，每年通过本土空壳公司转移的可疑资金数以亿计。“非常、非常难以摸查到究竟谁是这些空壳公司的权益拥有人，”司法部刑事领域负责人莱斯莉·R·考德威尔(Leslie R. Caldwell)说。
She said that the department’s Kleptocracy Initiative has found that foreign officials often use shell companies or immediate family members to move large amounts of money to United States real estate.
她还表示，该部门的“反高层盗用国有资源项目”(Kleptocracy Initiative)经常发现，外国官员往往通过空壳公司或直系亲属，将大量资金投入美国的房地产行业。
In 2010, a Senate committee investigating corrupt money moving into the country drew attention to a shell company used by the sister of the president of Gabon to buy a $2 million residence in Manhattan, and to an L.L.C. used by the son of the president of Equatorial Guinea to purchase a $30 million home in Malibu, Calif.
2010年，参议院一个负责调查流入美国的贪腐款项的委员会披露，加蓬总统的姊妹利用一家空壳公司在曼哈顿购买了一处价值200万美元的居所，而赤道几内亚总统的儿子利用一家有限责任公司在加利福尼亚州马里布购买了一处价值3000万美元的房产。
The proliferation of shell companies incorporated in the United States has hurt Washington’s attempt to get other countries to crack down on Americans who move money offshore to avoid taxes.
美国政府试图让其他国家打击那些为了避税而把钱转移到海外的美国人。然而，在美国注册的空壳公司泛滥，削弱了华盛顿的这种努力。
“We are in a totally inconsistent position,” said Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat who pushed for transparency in shell companies when he served in the Senate. “We’re way behind in terms of keeping up with what the international standard is, and it weakens our argument when we go to try to crack down the use of these offshore tax havens.”
“我们秉持的立场完全不统一，”曾在参议院推动空壳公司透明化的密歇根州民主党人卡尔·莱文(Carl Levin)说。“在紧跟国际标准上，我们远远落在后面。当我们试图打击美国人利用这些离岸避税天堂的活动时，这令我们的立场遭到削弱。”
About a year ago, after the Group of 8 industrialized nations issued goals requiring identification of shell company owners, a British representative met with Justice Department officials to complain about the United States’ failure to comply.
大约一年前，工业化国家组成的八国集团发布了要求明确空壳公司所有者的目标。之后，一名英国代表特意与美国司法部官员会面，抱怨美国没有遵循这些要求。
According to two people at the meeting, the British representative, Dominic Martin, delivered a stern message: The lax American laws were being used by other countries as an excuse for inaction.
两名与会者表示，英国代表多米尼克·马丁(Dominic Martin)传达了一条严厉的讯息：美国宽松的法律正在被其他国家用作不采取行动的借口。
Such a message resonates with Justice Department officials who have advocated tightening the rules.
主张收紧规则的司法部官员也有同样的看法。
“For a long time we’ve taken the view that you have to focus on the people that manage the gateway to the financial system, and those guys are not only the banks,” said Stefan Cassella, a Justice Department lawyer. “Bad guys who are trying to invest money in the financial system — they use lawyers, they use accountants, they use real estate, they use jewelers and private jets.”
“很长一段时间以来，我们都以为，必须把侧重点放在管理金融系统门户的那些人身上，但这不仅仅包括银行，”曾在司法部政策办公室任律师的斯特凡·卡斯拉(Stefan Cassella)说。该部门当时在谋求让《爱国者法案》采纳涵盖面更广的金融规则。“坏人试图将资金投入到美国金融体系中——他们会聘请律师和会计师，会利用房地产、珠宝和私人飞机。”
Transactions amid Investigations
调查正进行，交易仍如常
Just two months after the collapse of the Ponzi scheme run by Bernard L. Madoff in 2008, another Ponzi schemer was arrested: James Nicholson, whose Time Warner condominium was frozen. Mr. Nicholson’s $8.5 million unit would become the only one in the complex to be seized and sold off by law enforcement officials, even though other owners have been accused of wrongdoing. The difference is that Mr. Nicholson is an American citizen.
2008年，伯纳德·L·麦道夫(Bernard L. Madoff)的庞氏骗局崩塌短短两个月后，另一个庞氏骗局的主脑詹姆斯·尼科尔森(James Nicholson)遭到了逮捕，其位于时代华纳中心第52层的公寓也被查封。尼科尔森的这套公寓价值850万美元。它成为了楼中唯一一所遭执法官员收缴和抛售的公寓，虽然也有其他业主被指控从事了不法行为。所不同的是，尼科尔森为美国公民。
Foreigners who buy real estate in the United States often have an easier time keeping it out of the reach of investigators, victims and plaintiffs back home.
在美国购置房产的外国人，往往更容易避开本国的调查机构、受害者和原告对这些房产的追讨。
Take the case of Pablo Ardila, a former provincial governor in Colombia known for hunting trophies and lavish spending. Mr. Ardila acknowledged to The Times in 2004 that he and his parents had set up a shell company to buy a $4 million condo in the building. In 2007, while he was in office, Mr. Ardila was arrested and immediately jailed by local officials on charges of enriching himself illicitly.
巴勃罗·阿迪拉(Pablo Ardila)就是一个这样的例子。他曾是哥伦比亚的一名省长，出了名地喜欢战利品狩猎和奢侈消费。阿迪拉本人在2004年向时报承认，为了购买这栋大楼中一所售价400万美元的公寓，他和父母成立了一家空壳公司。2007年，当他还在任上时，哥伦比亚官员指控他中饱私囊，将其逮捕并随即监禁起来。
While Mr. Ardila was behind bars, the shell company sold the condo, making a $2 million profit. By then, the forwarding address on property records was no longer in Colombia, but went to a Jhon Ballesteros, in Weston, Fla. John Burger, a real estate agent who represented the seller, said recently that he did not know Mr. Ardila was involved.
当阿迪拉身陷囹圄时，这家空壳公司出售了这所公寓，赚取了200万美元的利润。到了此时，房产记录里登记的转发地址已经不再位于哥伦比亚，而是指向了佛罗里达州韦斯顿的霍内·巴列斯特罗斯(Jhon Ballesteros)。代表卖家的房地产经纪人约翰·伯格(John Burger)在接受采访时说，他甚至都不知道阿迪拉牵涉其中。
An extensive Colombian government analysis of Mr. Ardila’s holdings filed in court failed to unearth the Time Warner condo.
哥伦比亚政府向法庭提交了一份报告，对阿迪拉持有的资产进行了详尽的分析，但未能挖掘出这套位于时代华纳中心的公寓。
Despite international agreements, the authorities in smaller countries have difficulty recovering assets from abroad. “Judges in Colombia have been struggling a lot to get this money back to Colombia,” said Elisabeth Ungar Bleier, executive director of the Colombia branch of Transparency International, an anticorruption nonprofit.
尽管存在国际合作协议，但小国政府却难以从境外追回资产。“哥伦比亚的法官非常努力地想把这笔钱追回，”伊丽莎白·温加尔·布莱尔(Elisabeth Ungar Bleier)说。她是倡导反腐的非营利组织透明国际(Transparency International)哥伦比亚分部的执行总监。
Mr. Ardila was released from jail after two years and nine months without having been convicted. However, Arnulfo Mendez Castro, a spokesman for Colombian prosecutors, said Mr. Ardila was still under investigation.
在看守所待了两年零九个月后，阿迪拉获得释放，并未定罪。然而，哥伦比亚检察部门发言人阿努尔福·门德斯·卡斯特罗(Arnulfo Mendez Castro)表示，阿迪拉仍在接受调查。
Mr. Ardila’s lawyer, Mauricio Cristancho, said his client was the victim of “an absurd prosecution.” Despite what Mr. Ardila had told The Times about the condo, the lawyer said, the unit belonged to Mr. Ardila’s father, a wealthy businessman. He said Mr. Ballesteros, who did not reply to inquiries, was an assistant to the family.
关于这所公寓，不管阿迪拉对时报的说法如何，他的律师毛里齐奥·克里斯坦乔(Mauricio Cristancho)表示，公寓属于阿迪拉的富商父亲。他说，阿迪拉是“一起荒谬诉讼”的受害人，而巴列斯特罗斯是阿迪拉家族的一名助理。巴列斯特罗斯未回应询问。
The Ardila condo was not the only foreign-owned unit in Time Warner that was sold after an owner faced an investigation.
除了阿迪拉之外，时代华纳中心还有其他业主在面临调查后成功售出了公寓。
Mr. Contominas, the Greek businessman, sold his condo nine months after he was arrested in January 2014 and accused of using a commercial loan for personal expenditures. His lawyer, Grigorios Tsolias, said Mr. Contominas “is strongly denying any criminal accusation.”
2014年1月，希腊商人孔托米纳斯(Mr. Contominas)遭到逮捕并被控将商业贷款用于个人花销。九个月后，他卖掉了这里的公寓。其律师格里格罗斯·索里亚斯(Grigorios Tsolias)表示，孔托米纳斯“坚决否认任何刑事指控”。
Stewart Ford, another Time Warner owner, was facing a fraud investigation in October 2010 when he transferred the $6 million condominium he had bought in his own name to a shell company. At the time, Mr. Ford’s firm, Keydata Investment Services, was at the center of one of the biggest financial collapses in Britain, with an estimated 30,000 victims.
斯图尔特·福特(Stewart Ford)是时代华纳中心的另一名业主。2010年10月，当他面临着一起欺诈调查时，福特与曼哈顿的一名公证人会面，将之前用自己名字购买的价值600万美元的公寓无偿转移到了一家空壳公司。当时，福特的Keydata投资服务公司(Keydata Investment Services)正处于英国一起大型金融崩溃案的中心，估计受害者有3万名。
That summer, it had been revealed that he had transferred close to $60 million out of Keydata investments before his company was put in receivership by the British government, and moved it into shell companies and trusts that benefited his family.
那年夏天，人们发现，在Keydata被英国政府破产接管之前，福特已经把将近6000万美元从Keydata转移到几家空壳公司以及受益人是他家人的几个信托基金中。
Phil Burbidge, a disabled former teacher, said he invested through Keydata in 2008 but lost his life savings when the firm imploded the next year. “I’m in complete and utter poverty,” Mr. Burbidge said. “It’s all gone. I can’t even mend the roof.”
曾经是老师的菲尔·伯比奇(Phil Burbidge)身有残疾。2008年，他开始通过Keydata进行投资，但公司在第二年崩溃，导致他的毕生积蓄化为乌有。“我现在处于赤贫状态，”伯比奇说。“钱全都没了，连屋顶都修不起。”
British financial authorities have concluded their investigation and notified Mr. Ford that they plan to take enforcement action, a spokesman for the British Financial Conduct Authority said in an email to The Times.
英国金融市场行为监管局(British Financial Conduct Authority)的发言人在电子邮件中向时报表示，该国金融部门已经结束了相关调查，并通知了福特，他们计划采取执法行动。
Mr. Ford, in turn, is appealing the authority’s decision, the spokesman said. In an interview, Mr. Ford said the government should not have put his company into receivership. He added that the funds he transferred out of Keydata investments were fees legitimately owed to entities his family controlled.
该发言人称，福特对当局的执法决定随后提起了抗诉。接受采访时，福特宣称，政府不应该对自己的公司进行破产接管。“他们这是在试图展示权威，”他说。他还表示，家人控制的那些实体本就是自己从Keydata转出的资金的合法债主。
He has since sold the Time Warner condo.
后来他就卖掉了时代华纳中心的那所公寓。
Mr. Ford’s critics say he appears adept at keeping his assets out of reach of the authorities and bereft investors.
福特的批评者说，他似乎很擅长让自己的资产免受当局和绝望的投资者追查。
“We don’t believe he’s got any assets that are touchable,” said Geoff Hartnell, a financial adviser in Britain who invested in Keydata products and also sold them to 70 clients. “First of all, we know that he had trusts set up in the Dutch Antilles, trusts in Tortola, in the Virgin Islands.” He added: “If they turn around and fine him, then he says, ‘I’m not going to pay it.’ Since it’s civil, what can they do?”
“我们觉得他没有任何可以追查的资产，”英国财务顾问杰夫·哈特内尔(Geoff Hartnell)说。他投资了Keydata的产品，并把它们出售给70名客户。“首先，我们知道他在荷属安的列斯群岛设立了信托，在维尔京群岛的托尔托拉也有信托，”他说：“如果他们转过来对他处以罚款，那他就会说，‘我不会付钱。’这是民事问题，他们又能拿他怎么办？”
Even a computer server in the company’s office proved difficult for the authorities to examine. When British regulators seized it, Mr. Ford sued and said he did not own it. In fact, it was owned by a company that promoted Scottish culture, which in turn was owned by a shell company that was 70 percent owned by a trust, which, it was eventually revealed, was set up for Mr. Ford’s four children.
事实证明，当局要搜查该公司办公室里的一台计算机服务器都很困难。当英国监管机构没收这台服务器时，福特起诉说，这个服务器不是自己的。事实上，它属于一家促进苏格兰文化的公司，但这又是一个空壳公司，70%的所有权属于一个信任基金。调查最终发现，这家信托基金是为福特的四个子女设立的。
Anonymous in New York
大隐于纽约
Like most Time Warner owners, Anil Agarwal, an Indian mining magnate, is anonymous in New York. While interviews and private documents reviewed by The Times confirm he is behind condos purchased by the Amantea Corporation for $9.1 million in 2004, his name appears nowhere on public records. The deeds for Amantea’s Time Warner condos — one on the “maids floor” and another with sweeping views of Central Park — are signed by a New York lawyer named Constance Cranch. When contacted, she said: “You cannot say anything with respect to me. It’s a client of mine’s apartment, and I pay their bills.”
就像时代华纳中心的很多业主一样，印度矿业巨头安尼尔·阿加瓦尔(Anil Agarwal)在纽约并不为人所知。虽然采访和时报审阅的私人文件可以证明，他在2004年通过阿曼泰亚公司(Amantea Corporation)购买了售价910万美元的公寓，但他的名字却完全没有出现在公共记录中。阿曼泰亚公司在时代华纳中心的公寓——一套在“女佣层”，另一套则可以将中央公园的美景尽收眼底——房契由一位名叫康斯坦丝·克兰奇(Constance Cranch)的纽约律师签署。时报联系她时，她说：“对于我，你没有任何东西可以说。这是我客户的公寓，我帮他们支付账单。”
For all the secrecy at Time Warner, Mr. Agarwal is hardly private about his wealth. He spends much of his time in London and told a newspaper in 2005: “I have to have a Bentley, the best of chauffeurs and butlers.”
虽然对时代华纳中心的房产极尽保密之能事，阿加瓦尔对自己的富有倒毫不隐瞒。他很多时候都住在伦敦，2005年时，他还告诉一家报纸：“我必须坐宾利，有最好的司机和管家。”
But Mr. Agarwal and his company, Vedanta Resources, are known in some parts of the world for having left financial and environmental problems in their wake.
不过，在世界上的一些地方，阿加瓦尔及其名下的韦丹塔资源公司(Vedanta Resources)有着留下财务与环境问题的恶名。
He moved his company from India to London in the late 1990s, after it was banned from the Mumbai stock exchange for involvement in a prominent insider trading case.
上世纪90年代末，由于牵涉到一宗重大内幕交易案，阿加瓦尔的公司被孟买证券交易所封杀，于是他将公司从本国搬到了伦敦。
Ten months before he closed on his Time Warner condos, Mr. Agarwal, his father and his brother were found to have illegally moved money out of India using shell companies in Mauritius and the Bahamas. The Agarwals, an Indian judge later wrote, “tried to pull wool over the revenue’s eyes and manipulated foreign exchange.”
购买时代华纳中心两套公寓的交易完成之前10个月，阿加瓦尔、他的父亲及弟弟，被裁定利用毛里求斯和巴哈马的空壳公司从印度非法转移资产。一名印度法官后来写道，阿加瓦尔一家“试图偷偷诈取钱财并操纵外汇”。
There were also complaints about Vedanta’s environmental record and treatment of residents near its operations.
此外，韦丹塔也因其环境记录及工厂附近的居民受到的对待，而面临的诸多投诉。
In September 2004, an Indian Supreme Court committee stated that Vedanta had dumped thousands of tons of “arsenic-bearing slag” around its factory in the southern state of Tamil Nadu. Gro Nystuen, a lawyer who evaluated companies for Norway’s pension fund, said the pollution was “harming the environment to such an extent that it also harmed the people living in the neighborhood.”
2004年9月，印度最高法院的一个委员会表示，韦丹塔在该公司位于南部泰米尔纳德邦的一家工厂周围倾倒了数千吨“含砷矿渣”。为挪威养老基金评估企业状况的律师格罗·尼斯滕(Gro Nystuen)称，该污染“极为严重地损害了环境，以致于还伤害到了周边社区的居民”。
The next year, another Supreme Court committee accused the company of forcing 102 indigenous families from their homes in Odisha State, in eastern India, where it sought to mine bauxite for use in an aluminum refinery. According to the committee’s report, residents were “beaten up by the employees of M/s Vedanta.”
第二年，最高法院的另一个委员会指控韦丹塔迫使东部奥里萨邦的102户原住民搬迁，因为它想在那里开采炼铝厂所需的矾土。根据该委员会的报告，居民们遭到了“韦丹塔雇来的人的殴打”。
“An atmosphere of fear was created through the hired goons,” the report said. “After being forcibly removed they were kept under watch and ward by the armed guards of M/s Vedanta and no outsider was allowed to meet them. They were effectively being kept as prisoners.”
“招来的打手制造了一种恐怖氛围，”文中称。“被迫离家后，他们被韦丹塔的持械警卫看守着，不准与外人见面。实际上就是遭到了囚禁。”
As Vedanta pursued its mining plan over several years, the plight of the indigenous tribe in Odisha became a focal point for international activist groups. The cause was taken up by Rahul Gandhi, the son of a former prime minister, as well as by Bollywood stars such as Gul Panag, who withdrew from a Vedanta marketing campaign.
随着韦丹塔在接下来的几年里推进其采矿计划，奥里萨邦原住部落的遭遇，成了国际维权团体关注的焦点。维权行动由印度前总理的儿子拉胡尔·甘地(Rahul Gandhi)和一些宝莱坞明星发起。女星古尔·潘纳格(Gul Panag)还退出了韦丹塔的一项市场营销活动。
The British commerce agency issued a rebuke of Vedanta’s actions in Odisha, and the Church of England’s investment funds sold their shares in the company in protest. “It was just very apparent that the lives of the villagers immediately around the refinery had been made worse, rather than better,” said Edward Mason, the chief of responsible investment for a $9 billion church fund. “The villagers had not been properly consulted about the process, or properly compensated.”
英国商务部门发表声明谴责韦丹塔在奥里萨邦的所作所为。英格兰国教会(Church of England)旗下的投资基金抛售了该公司的股份以示抗议。“非常明显的是，这家炼铝厂周边的那些村民的生活变得更糟，而不是更好了，”爱德华·梅森(Edward Mason)表示。“村民们事前既未能获得关于建设过程的充足信息，也未能获得合理的赔偿。”梅森在教会旗下一支规模达90亿美元的基金，担任投资社会责任主管。
Vedanta’s operations elsewhere have drawn intense criticism. Its copper mine in Zambia has been a source of both pollution and suspicion of financial improprieties. In 2006, two years after Vedanta acquired the mine, the company dumped hazardous waste into the Kafue River, a major source of drinking water for the country, according to a lawsuit filed on behalf of 2,000 residents. Fish were dying, according to the ruling in the case, and local residents experienced skin diseases, lung pain and diarrhea.
韦丹塔在其他国家的几家分支机构也遭到了猛烈抨击。它在赞比亚的铜矿一直是污染源，还有不端财务操作的嫌疑。代表两千名居民提起的一宗集体诉讼的文件显示，2006年，也就是韦丹塔收购这座矿场的两年后，该公司往赞比亚的重要饮用水源卡富埃河中倾倒了有害废物。案件判决书表示，河中鱼类濒临绝迹，而当地居民出现了皮肤病、肺部疼痛和腹泻的症状。
The company was fined by a local judge who wrote: “This was lack of corporate responsibility and criminal and a tipping point for corporate recklessness.”
一名当地法官决定处以韦丹塔罚款，并在判决书中写道：“此案暴露了企业责任的缺失，构成了犯罪，达到了企业无法无天的极限。”
Last year, Zambian officials began an audit based on suspicions that Vedanta was not paying the government its proper fees. Hundreds of former mine workers are fighting Vedanta for severance or disability pay. “This company is making its own rules in Zambia,” said Darious Yundayunda, a former miner who has been active with a group called Foil Vedanta. “People are struggling.”
去年，赞比亚官员开始对韦丹塔进行审计调查，理由是怀疑该公司未能向政府足额缴纳费用。有数以百计曾为韦丹塔工作的矿工在追讨遣散费，还有其他一些人在追讨残疾抚恤金。前矿工达瑞斯·容达容达(Darious Yundayunda)参与了一个名为“挫败韦丹塔”(Foil Vedanta)的团体积极维权。“这家公司在赞比亚自行其是，”容达容达说。“挣扎的是普通人。”
Mr. Agarwal declined The Times’s interview requests over several months. But Vedanta has said publicly, “We remain fully committed to pursuing all our investments in a responsible manner, respecting the environment and human rights.”
在数月的时间里，阿加瓦尔反复拒绝时报的采访请求。但韦丹塔公司公开表示，“我们会一如既往地努力，确保所有投资都以负责任的方式开展，尊重环境和人权。”
Despite the complications and controversy, Mr. Agarwal’s fortune, according to Forbes, has grown from $1 billion to an estimated $3.5 billion since he purchased his condos at Time Warner.
尽管面临种种难题和争议，根据《福布斯》的估算，自从阿加瓦尔买下时代华纳中心的公寓以来，他的身家从10亿美元增加到了35亿美元左右。