It is generally agreed that moving is a nightmare: Most people would rather lock themselves in and shove the renewal paperwork under the door than pack up and depart for unfamiliar environs and, horrors, new landlords.
人们普遍认为，搬家就是场噩梦：大多数人宁愿把自己锁在房里，把续租文件塞到门缝底下，也不愿意收拾东西，前往一个陌生的环境，面对恐怖的新房东。
On top of liability-crammed leases are broker’s fees and damage deposits, more money to kiss goodbye. And don’t forget the secret price of relocation: the inevitable loss or breakage of a cherished possession and, after the move, the acquisition of neighbors who smoke, tap dance, play the drums or bark.
在写满追责条款的租房合同上，开门见山就是中介费用和损毁物品的押金。和老住处说再见，是要花掉更多钱的。另外别忘了，迁居还有隐性代价：贵重物品的遗失或损坏不可避免。而搬进新家后，你可能还会发现，邻居喜欢吸烟、跳踢踏舞、打鼓或者大喊大叫。
The potential for renter’s regret seems endless, and yet, in New York City, where the vast majority of housing stock is rental, there is a cadre of nomadic souls who move on an annual basis, often with enthusiasm. Various motivations stoke their mobility, but what these serial renters share is the talent of adaptability to a chronic change of address.
对租户来说，一失足成千古恨的可能性是永无终结的。然而，在纽约市这个多数既有房源都是供出租之用的地方，仍有一小帮带有游牧情怀的人，每年都会搬家，而且对此还往往满怀期待。促使他们经常搬家的因素很多，但是这些不停迁居的租户有一个共同点，那就是他们对于长期居无定所的状态，具有与生俱来的适应力。
“One-year leases are popular because most people don’t know if they want to live in a particular place for more than a year,” said Sofia Song, the head of research at Urban Compass, an online brokerage. “Their living situation may change, or they may realize they don’t like the apartment, the landlord or the neighborhood.”
“一年期的租约很受欢迎，因为大多数人都不知道他们想不想在某个地方待一年以上，”在线经纪公司Urban Compass的研究部负责人索菲亚·宋（Sofia Song，音译）说，“他们的生活状况可能会发生改变，或者他们可能意识到，自己并不喜欢当前的公寓、房东或是居民区。”
According to data compiled by the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy of New York University, frequent movers pay higher rents than fence-sitters. The median monthly rent for someone who has moved within the past five years is $1,428; for non-movers, it’s $1,191. The disparity is greatest in Manhattan: Frequent renters spent $1,937, homebodies $1,431.
根据纽约大学富曼房地产及城市政策中心(Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy of New York University)的数据，经常迁居者支付的房租要高于定居者。过去五年内搬过家的人，平均月租金为1428美元（约合人民币8870元）；而同期内未曾搬过家的人，平均月租金为1191美元（约合人民币7398元）。在曼哈顿，这一差距是最为悬殊的：经常迁居者的租金为1937美元（约合人民币12031元），而定居者的租金是1431美元（约合人民币8888元）。
“It’s difficult to see what benefits renters would get from moving frequently within New York City,” said Max Weselcouch, a research analyst at Furman. She noted that, like serial daters, serial renters tend to be young: “As people age in New York City, they are less likely to move.”
“我们很难看出，租房者在纽约市内频繁搬家有什么好处，”富曼中心的研究分析师马克斯·韦塞尔库奇(Max Weselcouch)表示。她注意到，不停迁居的人和不停约会的人一样，一般都是年轻人：“在纽约市生活的人，随着年龄的增长，迁居的几率就会降低。”
Lynn Steuer, 76, a native New Yorker, defies that characterization. “If I’ve moved once, I’ve moved a dozen times,” she said. “Every time you do, it’s like starting over.”
琳恩·施托伊尔(Lynn Steuer)现年76岁，是纽约本地人，她对上述说法却不以为意。“说到搬家，我已经搬了十几次，”她说，“每次搬家，都像是一次全新的开始。”
Over the decades, she has lived not only all over Manhattan but, testing her relocation skills, seven years in Pennsylvania and five in Santa Fe, N.M., where she was an owner of an art gallery. Since girlhood, she has never lived in one place for more than seven years. It is less, she said, about being a residential dilettante than about savoring change.
几十年来，她不仅在曼哈顿各地居住过；而且还在宾夕法尼亚州生活了七年；在新墨西哥州的圣达菲(Santa Fe)居住了五年，并在那期间拥有一家画廊。这些经历充分检验了她的迁居技能。从少女时代开始，她在一地居住的时间从不超过七年。她说，这样做更多地是为了体验生活的变化，而不是为了搬家而搬家。
Ms. Steuer grew up on Park Avenue in an apartment that now belongs, she said, to Caroline Kennedy and Edwin Schlossberg. After her marriage, she lived in a rental at 74th and Second Avenue. “I think the rent was $215,” she recalled. “Then I got divorced and moved to a studio in Gramercy, but I was robbed there and my parents insisted I move back to the Upper East Side, where it was safer.”
施托伊尔在公园大道(Park Avenue)上的一套公寓里长大，据她说，这套公寓现在的主人是卡罗琳·肯尼迪(Caroline Kennedy)和埃德温·施洛斯伯格(Edwin Schlossberg)。结婚后，她住在第74街近第二大道路段。“我记得房租是215美元（约合人民币1335元），”她回忆道，“后来我离婚了，搬到葛兰姆西(Gramercy)的一套单间公寓。但是，我在那里被抢劫了，我的父母坚持让我搬回上东区，因为那里更安全。”
She rented on East 74th Street, moved to Pennsylvania, got bored, and returned to rent at the Wellesley, on 72nd Street at Third Avenue.
她在东74街租了套房子，后来搬到宾夕法尼亚州，呆腻了，又搬了回来，在第72街近第三大道路段的Wellesley大厦租了套房子。
In 1985, after her father died, Ms. Steuer bought an apartment in a new building at 83rd and Broadway; four years later, she sold it to buy a four-level unit downtown at the Silk Building on East Fourth Street. “I fell in love with that apartment,” she said. But she parted with it in 1994 to move to Santa Fe, and for the next several years rented pieds-à-terre on the West Side, her preferred side of town.
1985年父亲去世后，施托伊尔在第83街靠近百老汇路段的一座新楼盘里买了套公寓；四年后，她卖掉公寓，在位于市中心东4街的丝绸大厦(Silk Building)买了一套四层的单位。“我喜欢上了那套公寓，”她说。但是，她在1994年搬了出去，来到圣达菲。接下来的几年里，她在自己比较偏爱的城市西区，先后租过几套临时寓所。
In 2002 she returned from New Mexico and leased a studio for $3,000 a month at the Dorchester Towers at Broadway and 68th Street. She loved the neighborhood but not her building, and chafed at its no-dog stipulation (since relaxed). “The huge closets were its only saving grace,” she said.
2002年，她从新墨西哥州搬了回来，在百老汇(Broadway)近第68街路段的多切斯特大厦(Dorchester Towers)里，租了套单间公寓，每月租金3000美元（约合人民币18634元）。她喜欢公寓所在的居民区，但不喜欢自己所住的这栋大楼，而且对不能养狗的规定耿耿于怀（后来这项禁令取消了）。“超大的橱柜是它唯一的可取之处，”她说。
She decided to move to a dog-friendly building. She bought a new two-bedroom condo at Ariel East at Broadway and 100th Street in 2006, adopted a Yorkshire terrier, Pudding, and thought her moving days were done until, while riding the bus downtown in 2013, she noticed the Larstrand going up in the heart of her favorite neighborhood.
她决定搬到一个允许养狗的楼里。2006年，她在百老汇近第100街路段的Ariel East大厦买了套新的两居室共管公寓(condo)，收养了一条名为“布丁”的约克夏犬。她以为自己不会搬家了，结果在2013年，她在市中心乘坐公交车时，发现Larstrand大厦正在她最喜欢的居民区中心拔地而起。
At 227 West 77th Street, the Larstrand was a rental; after doing some Internet research, she decided to sell her condo — it took just a week — and downsize. The rental application asked her to specify her reason for moving, so she concocted a historically accurate response: “Seven-year itch.”
位于西77街227号的Larstrand大厦是一个出租楼盘；在网上做了些调查之后，她决定卖掉自己的共管公寓，缩小自己的居住面积。售房交易只用了一星期。租房申请要求她写明迁居原因，于是她把那句至理名言写了上去：“七年之痒”。
Ms. Steuer signed a $5,100-per-month one-year lease and happily moved, with Pudding, to the Larstrand in December. She received two months of free rent for being one of the unfinished development’s earliest residents.
施托伊尔签了一个月租5100美元（约合人民币31678元）、期限一年的租约，在12月带着她的“布丁”开开心心搬进了新家。她享受了两个月免房租的待遇，因为大厦尚未完工，她是最早的居民之一。
“Who knows what I’ll do when the lease is up next February?” she said. “I still think of moving as a great adventure. One thing’s for sure — it’s easier to move than it is to paint.”
“谁知道明年2月租约到期时我会做什么，”她说，“我依然觉得搬家是场大冒险。有一件事是肯定的——搬家比刷漆更简单。”
Fabrizio Uberti Bona, 38, a managing director of Citi Habitats, changed apartments four times while working in the restaurant industry in 1999, his first year in the city, and once hired a limousine to move his minimalist belongings to the West Village from Roosevelt Island because no moving company would take the job.
法布里奇奥·乌贝蒂·博纳(Fabrizio Uberti Bona)现年38岁，是房地产公司花旗居屋(Citi Habitats)的一位总经理。他在1999年从事餐饮业期间，换过四次公寓，那是他来到纽约市的第一年。他曾经租过一辆加长轿车，就为了把少得可怜的行李物品从西村(West Village)搬到罗斯福岛(Roosevelt Island)去，因为没有一个搬家公司愿意效劳。
Despite owning a studio at the Edge in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, he doesn’t live there: He leases it out and rents elsewhere in the complex.
尽管他在布鲁克林威廉斯堡(Williamsburg)的Edge大厦里有一套单间公寓，但他并不住在那里：他将公寓租了出去，在同一片楼群中另租了一套房子。
“I haven’t found a real home in N.Y.C.,” he said, “so the moment I find a place with better views, more space and a better price, I rent it.” He now gives painting parties and moving parties each time he switches apartments. “It’s a way to make moving seem less like work and more like fun,” he said.
“我在纽约还没找到一个真正的家，”他说，“所以我一找到景观更好、空间更大、价格更实惠的房子，就会租下来。”现在，他每换一次公寓，就会举办彩绘派对和搬家派对。“这样做能让搬家少一点枯燥，多一点趣味。”他说。
Ryan McCann relocated to Manhattan 10 years ago and has moved each year since. “Moving is probably the fourth ring of hell,” said Mr. McCann, 35, the chief executive of Profile Marketing, “but I keep doing it.”
瑞安·麦肯(Ryan McCann)十年前搬到了曼哈顿，自那以后每年都会搬家。“搬家或许算是地狱的第四层，”麦肯现年35岁，是营销公司Profile Marketing的首席执行官，“但我还是在不停地搬。”
His first stop was a scruffy studio at Eighth Street and Avenue D for $1,400 a month, exactly twice the amount he’d been spending for “a lovely one-bedroom back in Arizona.”
他那搬家之旅的第一站，是第8街近D大道(Avenue D)路段的一套破旧的单间公寓，每月租金1400美元（约合人民币8696元），比他在“亚利桑那州的那套漂亮的一居室”刚好贵了一倍。
“But I probably had the same first experience as most newcomers to New York,” he said. “Chances are you’re going to be making lots of concessions, paying more than expected for less than you were hoping for, and living in an area that wasn’t your top choice.”
“不过，我的经历可能跟大多数初次来纽约的人一样，”他说，“你很可能需要做出许多妥协，花的钱比预想的要多，但是得到的东西却低于预期，住的地方也不是你最理想的。”
Mr. McCann signed a one-year lease and, as soon as it expired, moved to Avenue A, a more subway-accessible locale. His best find was a NoLIta apartment abruptly vacated by a Lehman trader after the 2008 collapse. It was for sale, and in exchange for agreeing to submit to showings, he negotiated a monthly rent of $2,100, down from $3,400.
麦肯签了一年租约，租约一到期，他就搬到了更靠近地铁的A大道(Avenue A)。他找到的最理想房源是一套诺利塔(NoLIta)公寓，这套房子在2008年金融危机后，被雷曼兄弟的一名交易员突然腾退出来。当时房子正待销售，他将每月租金从3400美元（约合人民币21120元）砍到了2100美元（约合人民币13045元），条件是同意经纪人在他入住期间继续带人来看房。
When the place sold, he moved again, this time to check out the western border of Chelsea. He spent two years there in two different apartments, and in 2013 arrived at the Edge in Williamsburg with his dog, Arnold, intent on soaking up the ambience of Brooklyn.
那套房子卖出去后，他又搬家了。这一次，他把目标选在了切尔西的西界。他在那里生活了两年，先后住过两套不同的公寓。2013年，他带着自己的狗阿诺德(Arnold)搬到了威廉斯堡的Edge大厦，以体验布鲁克林式的生活环境。
“Moving gets less traumatic when you can afford to hire movers,” Mr. McCann said. “But there are always major bumps and surprises in the process, and now having the dog, I’ve lost out on apartments because the applicant who doesn’t have a dog is a landlord’s first choice.”
“只要雇得起搬家公司，搬家就没那么痛苦了，”麦肯说，“但是搬家过程中总会发生一些严重的磕碰和意外。现在我养了狗，就更难找公寓了，因为房东首选的总是那些不养狗的申请人。”
The Edge, where he is paying $4,000 a month, was his second choice, though he has grown to appreciate its views and amenities.
Edge大厦每月的租金是4000美元（约合人民币24847元）。这是他的次优选择，虽然他现在已经开始欣赏这里的景观和设施了。
“But who knows what I’ll do when my lease is up? Chances are I’m moving again,” he said. “To me, every new little neighborhood is like finding a whole new New York, and that sort of sustains you through the hassles of moving.”
“但是谁知道租约到期后，我会做什么呢？我很可能会再次搬走，”他说，“对我来说，每住进一个新的居民区，都能发现一个全新的纽约。这种感觉能使你熬过搬家的折腾。”
Mr. McCann no longer hangs his art after unpacking; he leans it against the walls. “Too much effort to hang it,” he said, “and then have to patch up the walls 11 months later before I move out.”
家什就位后，麦肯不再把艺术品挂起来了；他就把它靠在墙上。“挂上去太费事了，”他说，“11个月以后，我还得在搬家前修补墙面。”
Leslie Bettison, 37, came to New York from Venezuela in 2001 to work as a paralegal and moved into a mouse-ridden sublet on West 57th Street. She and her roommate then moved three times within the same Mott Street building, each time to a higher floor, and in 2004, by then a law school graduate with a lawyer’s salary, she found a $4,200-a-month duplex on Mulberry Street.
莱斯利·贝迪森(Leslie Bettison)现年37岁，2001年从委内瑞拉来到纽约，担任律师助理。最开始，她住进了西57街的一套老鼠成灾的转租房。她和室友又在莫特街(Mott Street)的同一幢楼内搬了三次，每次都搬到了更高的楼层。2004年，贝迪森已经是一名法学院毕业生了，挣着律师的工资。于是她在桑树街(Mulberry Street)找了一套月租4200美元（约合人民币26090元）的复式公寓。
“It was the best move of all,” she recalled, “because I had my own bedroom and terrace.”
“那是我搬家最成功的一次，”她回忆道，“因为我有了自己的卧室和露台。”
But the roomie relationship soured. Ms. Bettison next lived in a no-fee building in Midtown East with her ailing mother as a roommate, but when her mother died in the apartment, she couldn’t bear to stay on, and tried to break the lease without success. She found a replacement tenant and moved out.
然而，她和室友的关系恶化了。贝迪森后来住进了中城区东部的一套免中介费的楼里，与她患病的母亲共住。但是当母亲在那套公寓里去世后，她再也呆不下去了，试图毁约，但没有成功。她找了一个接替自己的租户，便搬了出去。
“Landlords can be tough,” Ms. Bettison said. “I think I’m still a bit traumatized.”
“房东有时候也会不近人情，”贝迪森说，“我觉得我现在还有一点心理阴影。”
Now married and working for Coldwell Banker Bellmarc, she’s still renting; on the second year of a two-year lease and beset by moving fatigue, she’s leaning toward renewal. “Our last move was pretty gruesome: two adults, a set of triplets and a nanny. When you’re young and packing for one, it’s different, but still annoying.”
虽然她现在已经结婚，并在房地产公司Coldwell Banker Bellmarc工作，但依然在租房；目前所住的房子有两年租约，现在已经到了第二年。她已对常年搬家感到疲惫，所以倾向于续约。“我们最近一次搬家的经历就是场噩梦：两个大人带着三胞胎和一个保姆。当你年轻的时候，只需要打包自己一个人的东西，那不一样，但还是很折腾的。”
Takk Yamaguchi specialized in rentals at Town Residential and now does the same at Urban Compass. “In my experience,” he said, “nobody just wants to move after only a year for the fun of it. The general scenario I see with serial renters typically involves just life changes. They trade up, move in with a girlfriend or boyfriend, figure out the neighborhood that most suits their lifestyle.”
塔克·山口(Takk Yamaguchi)曾在房产中介公司Town Residential从事出租房业务，如今在Urban Compass依然从事老本行。“就我的经验看，”他说，“没人会因为觉得好玩就从才住了一年的新家搬走。我看到的一般情况是，人们不停搬家，大多只是因为生活状况发生了改变。他们想住更好的房子，搬去和女友或男友同居，或是找到了最适合自己生活方式的居民区。”
Jack Harris, 28, the chef de cuisine at Perla in the West Village, left Washington, D.C., in 2008 and landed in a two-bedroom sublet in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, where his roommate was his ex-girlfriend’s sister.
杰克·哈里斯(Jack Harris)现年28岁，是西村Perla餐厅的主厨。他在2008年离开华盛顿，搬进了布鲁克林绿点区(Greenpoint)的一套两居室转租房，室友是他前女友的妹妹。
“It was a little strange,” he said, “but I needed a place, and she needed a roommate.” The arrangement lasted for eight months, at which point he opted to share a place with a college friend attending New York Law School and asked Mr. Yamaguchi to handle the search.
“有点怪怪的，”他说，“但我需要一个住处，她需要一个室友。”就这样坚持了八个月，他决定和大学里结识的一位朋友合租一套房，当时那位朋友在纽约法学院(New York Law School)就读。哈里斯请山口帮忙物色房源。
They selected a two-bedroom for $2,100 a month on Avenue B near 14th Street in the East Village. The fifth-floor unit had large rear windows overlooking a park, and Mr. Harris liked it enough to sign up for a second year even after his friend decamped to Houston.
他们在东村B大道(Avenue B)近第14街的路段，选了一套两居室，月租2100美元（约合人民币75164元）。这套房子位于五楼，有一扇很大的后窗，站在窗边可以俯瞰公园。哈里斯非常喜欢这里，虽然那位朋友第二年搬到了休斯顿，他依然续了约。
The replacement tenant stayed a year before deciding he couldn’t afford the rent, which was being raised. Mr. Harris waffled, ultimately influenced by a plumbing issue. “The upstairs neighbor kept letting her bathtub overflow,” he said, “and it created a gaping hole in the ceiling above my shower.”
接替朋友的租户又住了一年，后来认为自己承担不起涨价后的房租。哈里斯一开始还在犹豫，最终因为管道问题下定了决心。“楼上那家人总是让浴缸的水溢出来，”他说，“弄得我家喷头上方的天花板裂了个口子。”
Again with Mr. Yamaguchi’s help, he moved to a courtyard studio at Sky East on Avenue C and 11th Street. Its bathroom had no overhead bathtub problem, but when the rent went up to $2,200 in 2011, he moved with his girlfriend, Kira Visser, to 200 East 11th Street, which is nearby.
同样，在山口的帮助下，他搬进了C大道(Avenue C)近第11街路段的Sky East大厦。新家是一座带庭院的单间公寓。这里没有楼上住户浴缸溢水的问题。但到了2011年，租金涨到2200美元（约合人民币13666元）之后，他和女友基拉·维瑟(Kira Visser)一起搬到了附近的东11街200号。
The $3,400 rent was a bit of a stretch, and worse, it went up to $3,550 the second year. Then the building was sold for a condo-conversion, and the couple needed to vacate. Priced out of Manhattan, they moved last month to a $3,100 one-bedroom that Mr. Yamaguchi found for them in Williamsburg.
3400美元（约合人民币21120元）的租金负担起来有点吃力，更糟的是，第二年房租还涨到了3550美元（约合人民币22052元）。后来，整幢楼被卖了出去，即将改建成共管公寓。这对情侣必须搬出去。曼哈顿的租金已经负担不起了，上个月，他们搬到了山口为他们在威廉斯堡找的一套一居室，月租是3100美元（约合人民币19257元）。
“I hated moving and I thought it was terrible that I couldn’t seem to find a place to stay put,” Mr. Harris said, “But we lucked out this time: The East Village apartment gave us January for free because of the construction, and we got a month’s free rent in Brooklyn, so in the great scheme of things, two months’ free rent is a good deal.”
“我讨厌搬家，我觉得，不能找个地方安居下来的感觉很可怕，”哈里斯说，“但是我们这次交好运了：东村的公寓还在施工，所以1月份的房租不用付。而且，我们在布鲁克林得到了减免一个月房租的待遇。所以从总体上看，两个月不用付房租还是很划算的。”
Violetta Bitici, a broker at A. C. Lawrence, theorizes that women move more often than men: “Apartments are like dresses and men: You have to try a few on before you fall in love enough to commit.”
维奥莱塔·比蒂契(Violetta Bitici)是A. C. Lawrence的一名经纪人，她发明了一套理论来解释女性比男性搬家更频繁的现象：“公寓就像衣服和男人，你得多试几次才知道哪个最适合自己。”
Kelly Marek, 30, may be one of those circumspect women. After enlisting Renee Smith of Citi Habitats to find an apartment that satisfied the non-negotiables (a bathtub, laundry facilities, sunlight, quiet), Ms. Marek, 30, a global account director for TransPerfect, a translation services company, moved this month to a 750-square-foot apartment on the Upper East Side.
现年30岁的凯莉·马雷克(Kelly Marek)可能就属于这样的女性。她是翻译服务公司TransPerfect的全球客户总监，聘请了花旗居屋的经纪人芮妮·史密斯(Renee Smith)为她寻找房源。房子必须满足的条件有：配有浴缸和洗衣设备，采光良好，环境安静。这个月，马雷克搬进了上东区一套750平方英尺（约合70平方米）的公寓。
The rent is $3,600 a month, and although the corner apartment has partial river views, she signed a one-year lease, not willing to commit to a longer term.
租金是每月3600美元（约合人民币22363元），尽管这套转角公寓可以看到一部分河流景观，但她只签了一年租约，不愿意居住更长时间。
“I think this might be my 10th apartment in 10 years,” said Ms. Marek, who moved with a roommate to a “horrible” fifth-floor walk-up in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, from Long Island in 2004. She lasted four months.
“我估计这应该是我在十年里住的第十套公寓了，”马雷克说。2004年，她和一位室友从长岛搬进了布鲁克林格林堡(Fort Greene)的一套“可怕的”五层无电梯住房。她只住了四个月。
“I think it was the asylum for every form of pest and vermin in the building,” she said. “We left everything behind when we moved out.”
“我觉得，整栋大楼的害虫和寄生虫都把那里当成了庇护所，”她说，“我们什么东西也没带走，直接搬出去了。”
She found her next apartment, a rent-stabilized second-floor studio in Brooklyn Heights, through a broker. The rent was $1,600 a month for a two-year lease; the drawback was that the studio, though charming, faced a noisy street. “But when you rent,” she said, “you’re always compromising something.”
通过经纪人，她在布鲁克林高地(Brooklyn Heights)找到了新居。那是一套位于二楼的单间公寓，租金固定，是每月1600美元（约合人民币9939元），租约为期两年。只可惜，这套房子虽然好看，但面朝喧闹的街道。“但是你租房的时候，”她说，“总得做出这样或那样的妥协。”
After Brooklyn came Yonkers, Philadelphia (where her company has an office), Gramercy (a “cute” 280-square-foot bachelorette pad for $1,750) and Williamsburg, where in January 2013 she signed an 18-month lease through an owner/broker on a “palatial” $3,900 two-bedroom in a townhouse.
从布鲁克林搬走之后，她先后生活过的地方包括扬克斯(Yonkers)、费城（她的公司在当地设有办事处）、葛兰姆西（当时的住所是一套面积280平方英尺[约合26平方米]、“可爱的”单身公寓，租金1750美元[约合人民币10873元]）以及威廉斯堡。2013年1月，她通过一位房主兼经纪人，签下一份为期18个月的租约，搬进威廉斯堡一座联排别墅里的一套“富丽堂皇的”两居室。
But Williamsburg was too noisy. “I was sleeping with my headphones on,” she said. She sublet the unit at a $700 loss and took over the lease on a tiny Upper East Side studio she had found through Craigslist.
但是，威廉斯堡太嘈杂了。“我睡觉时都得戴耳机，”她说。她损失了700美元（约合人民币4349元），才将这套公寓转租出去，又在上东区租了一套小单间公寓。房子是她在Craigslist网站上找到的。
That lease ended last month, just in time for her to move to the apartment found through Ms. Smith. But before she left the studio, she had to prime the walls, which her predecessor had unfortunately painted an unauthorized shade of tan.
这份租约已于上个月到期。她刚好可以搬进史密斯为她新找的公寓里。但她在搬走之前，还得恢复墙面的颜色，因为，不幸的是，上一任租户未经许可就将墙面漆成了棕色。
“Probably the key thing about my being able to move so often is that I didn’t own a single piece of furniture,” said Ms. Marek, who at last invested in furniture for her most recent address. “I will say that it costs more to live this way: I’ve practically bankrupted myself buying new light bulbs and sheets and whatever else. But on the plus side, it’s like constantly having someplace new to decorate.
“或许，我能够如此频繁搬家的关键在于，我一件家具也没有，”马雷克说。最终，她为自己当前居住的房子添置了家具，“我得说，这种生活方式的花销更大：为了买新灯泡、床单被罩这些杂七杂八的东西，我实际上已经把自己的积蓄掏空了。但是这样做的好处在于，你总有新的住处可以布置。”
“You definitely strap in for an adventure when you live that way.”
“一旦选择了这种生活方式，你就为自己准备了一场历险。”