LOS ANGELES — When I was 21, I made two promises to my best friend, Julie, who was dying. They were youthful vows, born of deep love and deeper grief. The first was that I would name a child after her, if I ever became a mother. The second was that I would visit a psychic medium after she was gone and attempt to find out how she was.
洛杉矶——21岁的时候，我对自己最好的朋友——即将离世的朱莉许下两个诺言。那是青春的誓言，生发于深深的爱和比之更深的悲伤。第一个承诺是，如果将来有孩子，我会给其中一个取名朱莉。第二个是，她离开后，我会去找灵媒，试着了解她身后的情况。
Julie learned she had an aggressive form of leukemia during our junior year of college. Her illness sent a wave of shock through our peer group, shattering assumptions about our own immortality. The doctors, and her family, urged us to remain optimistic, and not to speak of her possibly imminent death. But Julie wanted to talk about it.
大学三年级的时候，朱莉发现自己得了急性白血病。她得病的消息引起我们这些同龄人很大的震惊，摧毁了我们觉得自己会一直活下去的幻觉。她的家人、医生都力促我们保持乐观，不要和她谈起可能很快会到来的死亡。但朱莉自己却想谈论死亡。
She herself had never known anyone who’d died. She asked me if I believed there was an afterlife, and whether there would be anyone to greet her on the other side. I had lost my mother when I was 18, so I, too, was curious. We kept these whispered conversations to ourselves, fearful of being admonished for being morbid.
之前，她不曾经历过哪个认识的人去世。她问我是否相信人有后世，问我另一个世界会不会有人欢迎她。我在自己18岁的时候失去了母亲，所以我也对这些问题感到好奇。我们不让别人知道我们之间这些悄悄话，担心被人说这是病态。
In the end, the doctors could not cure Julie, and we were forced to say goodbye.
最终，医生们没能治好朱莉，我们被迫分别了。
Over the next decade, I made a mental note of every milestone with the knowledge that Julie had not reached each marker herself: college graduation, graduate school, marriage and motherhood. The birth of my first child was momentous. Becoming a mother revived old fears about mortality, but it also made think anew of my vows to my friend — though I didn’t name our baby after her.
接下来十年，我会在心里记下每一个朱莉没能抵达的人生里程碑：大学毕业、读研究生、结婚、做母亲。第一个孩子出生对我来说意义重大。母亲的身份重又唤起我以前存在的对于死亡的恐惧，但它也让我再次想起自己昔日对朋友的誓言——不过我并没有给这个孩子取名朱莉。
During the years since Julie’s death, I had become a grief counselor, working in a hospice. Consulting a psychic medium did not fit the parameters that held my life in place; it was certainly never a course I would have recommended in my job.
朱莉离开后的多年里，我成为了一名哀伤辅导师，在一家临终关怀医院工作。去找灵媒通灵有违那些让我的生活保持安稳的原则；工作中我肯定也不会推荐病人去尝试这样的事。
Even so, having yet to make good on either of my promises, I booked an appointment with a celebrated psychic medium, John Edward, for a “private reading” with a small group. I told no one but my husband what I was doing; I made my reservation in secret, using a false identity.
即便如此，想到自己两个誓言一个也没有兑现，我还是和知名灵媒约翰·爱德华(John Edward)预约了时间，和一小群人一起接受他的“私人通灵”服务。除了丈夫，我没有对任何人谈起这件事；而且我是用一个假身份偷偷预约的。
The very idea of seeing a psychic medium seemed a betrayal of the clinical grief work to which I was committed. I was not only skeptical of “the paranormal,” but also feared that participating in an attempt to communicate with the dead could discredit me professionally. I boarded the plane to Long Island, where Mr. Edward lives, with apprehension.
见灵媒这个想法本身似乎是对我致力于从事的哀伤辅导工作的一种背叛。我不仅对“超自然现象”持怀疑态度，还担心这种期待和来世的人进行沟通的尝试会毁坏我的职业名声。带着忧虑，我登上了飞机，前往爱德华居住的长岛。
But also curiosity. After working closely with the bereaved for a number of years, I understood something about what grief can drive us to. Initially, I justified my visit to Mr. Edward as research: I would be able to observe the other attendees. But what place of desperation must they be in, I wondered, to shell out a $600 fee, as well as travel time and costs?
但我也有好奇。过去数年，我一直在工作中和失去亲人的人近距离接触，对悲伤能驱使我们所做的事并非不了解。一开始，我给自己去见爱德华的行为找了一个正当理由——做研究，我可以观察一起见灵媒的人的行为。但我纳闷，他们要绝望到什么程度才会花费600美元做这样的事，还要搭上旅行的时间和费用？
I had always viewed the afterlife through a frame of agnosticism. Now, as I contemplated this encounter, I suddenly found this lens felt lacking — a hindrance in the search for meaning, as I kept my vow to Julie. So I forced myself to open my mind and let go of long-held assumptions.
我一直把来生这个问题放在不可知论的框架下看待。现在，当我深入思考见灵媒的事时，我突然发现这个视角有缺失——在我履行对朱莉的诺言时，这成为了我为此事寻找意义的障碍。所以，我迫使自己打开思维，放弃自己长期持有的一些假设。
Nothing about the experience was what I’d thought it would be.
这次经历和我想象的一点也不一样。
In the company of 14 others, Mr. Edward attempted to communicate with our deceased loved ones. Superficially, I was impressed at his uncanny ability to come up with details about our lost friends and family members. He was right that the engagement ring on my finger had belonged to my mother. An easy guess, you might think, but he also summoned a story from my father about how he had taught me to swim. But what struck me more deeply were the remarkable parallels between that room and the hospital conference room where I led groups for grief counseling.
和我一起的有14个人，爱德华试着让我们和自己去世的亲人和挚友沟通。他可以说出有关我们去世的亲人朋友的一些细节，表面上看，这种不同寻常的能力让我印象深刻。他说中了我手上的订婚戒原先是我母亲的。你可能觉得，这很容易猜到，但他还唤起了一个有关我父亲如何教我游泳的故事。不过，让我感受更深的，是通灵室和我进行哀伤辅导的医院会议室空间不寻常的相似性。
I realized that in acknowledging our grief so openly — sharing that vulnerability and bearing witness to the details of the lives of the people we all missed so dearly — there was healing. There was a kind of communion that came from stepping out of the isolation of our individual griefs and into a realization that loss is a universal experience.
我意识到，如此公开地承认自己的悲伤——与人分享自身的脆弱，再次见证我们无比怀念的人生命中的一些细节——有治疗效果。走出各自的伤痛，意识到失去亲人是一种普遍的经历，让人感觉到一种与外界的交融。
I still remained unconvinced of the claims of psychics, but my interest was piqued by the way different views of the afterlife can affect the process of grieving. In researching my book, I attended sessions with dozens of mediums — some one on one, others as part of large groups.
我仍然对灵媒的话持怀疑态度，但是，有关来生的不同观点对悲伤疗愈进程的影响，引起了我的注意。在为写书做研究的过程中，我见了几十个灵媒，有些是一对一，其他的是和一群人一起。
I went into each session with skepticism, and I emerged with skepticism intact. Ultimately, I decided that the question of whether psychic abilities are real or not is irrelevant; the healing effects I saw, in myself and others, from visiting these mediums were real.
我每次都带着怀疑的前往，活动结束后，我依然充满疑惑。最终，我拿定主意，灵媒的能力是否为真，这个问题无关紧要；而我在自己和其他人身上看到的，通过灵媒通灵带来的疗愈效果，却真实存在。
Julie never “came through” in any of the readings I attended. Yet my sense of connection with her was restored. And my fears about what happens next, the dread about mortality that came with motherhood, were diminished. My psychic research also informed and changed my work with clients, whether I was helping them to let go of a lost loved one or helping them to find ways to feel connected.
朱莉从没有在我参加的任何一次通灵活动中“出现”过。但我又找到了和她之间存在的联通感。而且，我对于接下来会发生什么的担心，以及随着做母亲又产生的对死亡的恐惧，都消失不见了。灵媒研究还给我的哀伤辅导工作带来丰富和改变，不管是帮助病人释解失去挚爱的痛苦，还是帮他们找到和外界的联系感。
Grief can be a long, arduous process. Plenty of research suggests that the greatest factor in alleviating the pain of grief is simply the passage of time. Again and again, though, I see a healing shift occur in people who feel that they have found a way to remain close to someone they’ve lost. This seems to allow people to accept their loss better, and find consolation in the idea that they are still connected.
对一些人来说，悲伤可能会持续很久，而且过程让人难以忍受。很多研究都显示，对减轻悲伤影响最大的因素就只是时间的流逝。但是，在那些找到途径和逝去的亲友保持紧密联系的人身上，我一次又一次看到治疗出现转机。这种办法似乎可以让人们更好地接受逝者已去的事实，并从仍然能与他们保持联系的想法中得到安慰。
How a visit to a psychic medium measures up against more conventional methods of alleviating grief — like anti-depressants, psychotherapy or empty-chair Gestalt technique — no longer concerns me. I do not recommend that all of my clients attend a reading, but I believe that for those who feel open to the idea, there can be value in the experience.
与减轻悲伤的传统方法——比如抗抑郁药物、心理疗法或空椅子格式塔技术——相比，找灵媒是否合乎规范，已经不是我关心的问题。我不会建议所有病人都去找灵媒通灵，但我认为对那些对这种方法持开放态度的人来说，见灵媒会是有价值的体验。
When my second daughter was born three years ago, I named her Juliette.
三年前，第二个女儿出生的时候，我给她取名朱丽叶。
Today, I feel proud of Julie for having had the courage to acknowledge death in the way she did. I have come to see that the work I do is to help others do the same. It is work we must all do — to quell our anxiety about what happens next, whatever that may be.
如今，我为朱莉当时有勇气以自己的方式承认死亡而感到骄傲。我开始明白，自己的工作就是帮助其他人也做到这一点。这是我们都必须做到的——消除自身对于接下来会发生什么的焦虑，不管它是什么。