In the universe of ultraluxury real estate, much attention has been lavished on foreign investors who pay record prices for glassy Midtown condominiums, and the wave of previously staunch uptown residents suddenly spending big to embrace unlikely neighborhoods in Lower Manhattan.
在超豪华房产的领域里，不仅是那些以天价买下玻璃幕墙式的中城区共管公寓的外国投资者惹人瞩目；那些曾经非上城区不住的人，却忽然花了一大笔钱去拥抱曼哈顿下城区那些无人问津的住宅区，这种趋势，也吸引了市场的广泛关注。
Now get ready for a new group of well-to-do buyers who are quickly gaining momentum: under-40 multimillionaires.
现在，准备好迎接一批正在迅速发展壮大的新兴富裕买家吧：那些40岁以下的百万富豪。
Such buyers care less about status and amenities than quality, character and privacy. They eschew Park Avenue for Canal Street, and prefer bespoke kitchens by the British designer Smallbone of Devizes to the typical Sub-Zero style. The young wealthy elite is split between entrepreneurs, who have made their fortunes in technology and business, and those who have family money. But nearly all prefer homes downtown, and they almost always pay all cash.
这类买家，更加关心住宅的品质、特色和隐私，而非住宅的档次与配套设施。他们选择了运河街(Canal Street)，而避开公园大道(Park Avenue)；宁愿要英国设计公司Smallbone of Devizes的定制厨房，也不要经典的Sub-Zero风格。这些年轻而富有的精英可以分成两类，一类是凭借技术与商业致富的创业家们，另一类是那些继承了家庭财产的人。但是他们都喜欢在下城区买房，而且他们几乎总是用现金全款支付。
“They have a completely different DNA from the rest of us,” said Robert Dankner, the president of Prime Manhattan Residential, a brokerage that represents young tech millionaires. “They like to stay under the radar, and the time and energy others spend to conform, these people spend forging their own path. What is important to them is to have something that is not like what everyone else has.”
“他们跟其他人有完全不一样的DNA，”一家名为曼哈顿优质住宅(Prime Manhattan Residential)、为科技行业的年轻富豪们代理房地产业务的经纪公司的总裁罗伯特·丹克纳(Robert Dankner)说，“他们喜欢保持低调。其他人会把时间和精力花在适应环境上，他们则将之用来开拓自己的道路。对他们而言，重要的是拥有一些和别人不一样的东西。”
Buildings that have been currying favor among this set include the Sterling Mason in TriBeCa, 200 Eleventh Avenue in Chelsea and 285 Lafayette Street in SoHo. “In my experience smaller is better than bigger, buildings like One57 and 15 CPW are not their thing,” Mr. Dankner said.
能迎合这群人喜好的建筑，有翠贝卡(TriBeCa)的共管公寓大楼Sterling Mason，切尔西(Chelsea)的第11大道200号(200 Eleventh Avenue)，以及苏豪区(SoHo)的拉菲尔街285号(285 Lafayette Street)。“以我的经验来看，小公寓楼比大公寓楼更好，诸如One57和15CPW这样的建筑并不符合他们的风格，”丹克纳说。
Take 471 Washington Street, which began sales in 2010 and sold out before construction was completed. It is on the corner of Canal Street bordering SoHo and northern TriBeCa. Each of the nine apartments in the nine-story building, blocks from where the city Department of Sanitation is erecting an enormous garage and salt shed, boasts outdoor space, a private keyed elevator and 11-foot ceilings. At least four of the buyers in the building are under 40, including Sasha Bikoff, 26, an interior designer. Ms. Bikoff, who grew up in Manhattan, has furnished homes that include Judy Garland’s former apartment at the Dakota on the Upper West Side, a former Hunnewell estate in Dover, Mass., and homes in Montauk, Amagansett and Hudson, N.Y.
以华盛顿大街471号(471 Washington Street)为例，这栋公寓楼于2010年开始销售，大楼落成前已销售一空。该大楼位于运河街的转角处，与苏豪区接壤，在翠贝卡区的北边。这栋九层高楼与纽约市卫生部(Department of Sanitation)兴建的一间大库房及盐仓隔了几条街，共有九套公寓，其中每一套都宣称带有户外空间，并配备了带锁匙的私人升降机和11英尺（约3.4米）高的天花板。这栋大楼里至少有四位买家，年龄在40岁以下，包括26岁的室内设计师萨莎·比科夫(Sasha Bikoff)。在曼哈顿长大的比科夫，曾经设计、装修过朱迪·加兰(Judy Garland)之前位于上西区达科塔大厦(Dakota)内的一套公寓，还有马萨诸塞州多佛市(Dover, Mass)的前亨尼韦尔(Hunnewell)地产，以及纽约州的休斯顿、阿默甘西特(Amagansett)、以及蒙托克(Montauk)的一些公寓。
She bought a sprawling one-bedroom at 471 Washington that has three levels, a 650-square-foot backyard and a large basement intended as storage, which has been transformed into an office, with tiled floors and walls painted royal blue. The main level has a kitchen and entertainment area where she exhibits her artwork, while the top floor houses her living space. Adjoining Ms. Bikoff’s bedroom is an enormous walk-in-closet reminiscent of the one that Mr. Big built for an awed Carrie Bradshaw in the “Sex and the City” movie; the space is a reinvention, first built as a second bedroom.
她在华盛顿471号买了一套户型不规则的单卧室住宅，有上下三层，带一个650平方英尺（约60平方米）的后院，以及一个本打算用作储藏室的大地窖。现在那里已被改造成了一间办公室，铺着瓷砖地板，墙面涂成了宝蓝色。主楼层有一间厨房以及娱乐区，她在娱乐区内展示着自己的作品，而住宅的顶层是她的生活空间。比科夫卧室的隔壁，是一间巨大的步入式衣橱，类似电影版《欲望都市》中，Mr.Big为惊得合不拢嘴的凯莉·布莱德肖(Carrie Bradshaw)所打造的那间衣橱；这个房间被彻底改造了，原本是作为第二卧室使用的。
“Everything is totally private and separate from each other, sort of like a townhouse within the building,” said Ariel Dagan, 25, an associate broker at Keller Williams New York City who represents Ms. Bikoff, having known her since both were children on the Upper East Side.
“这里的一切都是完全私密的，彼此分隔，有点像是大楼内的一套套联排别墅，”纽约市凯勒威廉姆斯公司(Keller Williams New York City)25岁的合伙经纪人艾瑞·达冈(Ariel Dagan)说。她代理了比科夫的地产交易，因为他童年时在上东区就已经认识她了。
Before buying, Ms. Bikoff was renting a one-bedroom with a terrace in Chelsea. “But she likes to entertain and it just wasn’t large enough,” Mr. Dagan said, “plus she wanted something with the feeling of Old New York — something super, super unique.”
买下这套公寓之前，比科夫曾在切尔西租住着一套带阳台的单卧室公寓。“但她喜欢请朋友来玩，所以地方不够大，”达冈说，“另外，她想要一种老纽约的感觉——也就是一种很特别、很特别的东西。”
To find the perfect home, Ms. Bikoff and Mr. Dagan visited several listings from Chelsea all the way to the southern tip of TriBeCa. “I am the type of person that will walk into Barney’s in my sweatpants, I don’t care,” Ms. Bikoff said. “But at the same time, I am a serious buyer, and I think we went into some of these listings and they didn’t take me seriously. That changed after we did the walk-throughs and they saw my comments and knowledge.”
为了找到一个完美的家，比科夫和达冈从切尔西一路来到翠贝卡的南端，看过好几处房源。“我是那种会穿着运动裤走进巴尼斯(Barney's)商店的人，我一点也不在乎，”比科夫说，“但同时，我也是个认真的买家。所以我想，当我们刚走进那几套公寓时，他们并没有把我太当真。但是，当我们在房里走了一遍之后，情况就发生了变化，他们见识了我对房屋的评价和了解程度。”
When Ms. Bikoff first visited 471 Washington Street, it was still under construction. “Sasha walked in and from the first moment, looking at just four cement walls, she was like, ‘This is it, this is what I want.’ ” Mr. Dagan recalled. “And I was like, ‘What? I have no idea what we are even looking at.’ But she had vision and the space gave her inspiration.”
比科夫第一次参观华盛顿街471号时，那里尚未建好。“萨莎走了进来，初次见到房子的那一刻，她只看了四面水泥墙，便说，‘就是这儿了，这就是我想要的。’”达冈回忆。“而我的反应是，‘什么？我连我们在看的是什么都搞不清呢。’但她心中已经有了设想，这个地方给了她灵感。”
Other residents of 471 Washington include two young brothers who each own large apartments and a stylish 30-something couple, Harsh and Purvi Padia. The Padias — he runs a hedge fund and she has an interior-design business — paid more than $17 million for the penthouse. The couple, who have a child, were featured in an episode of “Million Dollar Listing,” a reality show on Bravo, expressing concern that the 4,200-square-foot unit, which comes with 4,000 square feet of outdoor space and a rooftop pool, was too small for the family of three. They ended up combining the apartment with the unit below, creating a 7,200-square-foot home.
在华盛顿471号的其他住户中，还有两位年轻的兄弟，他们每人都拥有一套大面积的公寓；另外有一对30多岁的新潮夫妇，哈什和普尔维·帕迪亚(Harsh and Purvi Padia)。帕迪亚夫妇——他经营着一支对冲基金，而她则开了一家室内设计公司——支付了超过1700万美元（约合人民币1.03亿元），买下了这套顶层公寓。这对已育有一个孩子的夫妻，曾上过一集Bravo电视台的《百万美元豪宅》(Million Dollar Listing)真人秀节目。他们表示，担心这套4200平方英尺（约390平方米）的公寓，虽然带有4000平方英尺（约371平方米）的户外空间和一个屋顶游泳池，但对三口之家来说还是太小了。他们最终把这套公寓与楼下的一个单元打通，设计出了一个面积为7200平方英尺（约668.9平方米）的家。
“The whole building is filled with rich young millionaires,” said John Gomes, a broker at Douglas Elliman Real Estate, who oversaw the sales at 471 Washington Street with his partner Fredrik Eklund.
“整栋楼住的都是富有而年轻的百万富翁，”道格拉斯·艾丽曼公司(Douglas Elliman Real Estate)的约翰·戈梅斯(John Gomes)说。他与合伙人弗雷德里克·埃克隆德(Fredrik Eklund)管理着华盛顿大街471号公寓楼的销售工作。
Walker Tower, a 47-unit conversion on West 18th Street where a penthouse recently sold for a record-breaking $50.9 million and a two-bedroom recently went into contract for $4.2 million, has also seen an influx of young buyers. “It used to be that if you were dealing with a buyer who was under 40, it wasn’t really in the luxury market,” said Vickey Barron, an associate broker at Douglas Elliman and the director of sales at Walker Tower. “They were looking for a perfectly lovely apartment, but not really luxury. Now I’ll see someone walk through the door and assume it is a 37-year-old broker, but it is actually a buyer, and they are looking at a listing that costs $14 million.”
西18大街(West 18th Street)的一栋含47个单元的改造大楼沃克大厦(Walker Tower)，最近以破纪录的5090万美元（约合人民币3.09亿元）的价格卖出一套顶层公寓。另有一套双卧室公寓正以420万美元（约合人民币2555万元）的价格签署合约。这栋大厦也见证了一批年轻买家的到来。“过去的情况是，如果你跟一位40岁以下的买家打交道，就不是真正在豪宅市场中卖房，”道格拉斯·艾丽曼公司的合伙经纪人之一、兼沃克大厦的销售主任维克·巴伦(Vickey Barron)说，“他们要找一套完美而漂亮的公寓，但并不真的要很奢华。而现在，我有可能看见有个人走进门，本以为他是一位37岁的经纪人，但实际上那是一位买家。他们正盯着一套1400万美元（约合人民币8517.2万元）的待售公寓看。”
Among the young buyers at Walker Tower is a 30-something owner of a tech company who recently bought a two-bedroom; another resident, a 30-year-old lawyer and entrepreneur, bought a three-bedroom.
沃克大厦的年轻买家中，有一位30多岁的科技公司老板，刚刚买下一套双卧室公寓；另一位住户是一名30岁的律师兼创业家，买下了一套三卧室的公寓。
Buildings like Walker Tower and 471 Washington Street lack many of the flashier amenities often featured in larger buildings, like golf simulators, giant screening rooms or basketball courts. But that is just fine. “These younger, successful individuals, they are almost too intelligent to go for the bells-and-whistles sales pitch,” Ms. Barron said. “Instead they want substance, they want something that is a good investment and is nice to live in.”
类似沃克大厦和华盛顿大街471号这样的建筑，缺少大公寓楼中常有的光鲜亮丽的配套设施，比如高尔夫模拟练习器、带有宽屏放映厅或篮球场地。但那也没什么。“这些年纪轻轻的成功人士，几乎个个都聪明得不会去理睬那些天花乱坠的销售说辞，”巴伦说，“相反，他们想要实实在在的东西，他们想要的，既要是一项不错的投资，也得是个不错的住处。”
The architect Cary Tamarkin is seeing a similar trend at two boutique condominiums he is developing in West Chelsea. The buildings, 456 West 19th Street and 508 West 24th Street, have pared down amenities and elevated prices — the cheapest unit at 508 West 24th Street is $4.15 million — and seem to be interesting buyers who are executives at technology and new-media companies.
建筑师卡里·塔玛金(Cary Tamarkin)，在他于切尔西区西部开发的两栋精品共管公寓楼中，也看到了相似的趋势。这两栋大楼位于西19街456号和西24街508号，都已削减了配套设施，并抬高了价格——西24街508号最便宜的一套公寓，价格是415万美元（约合人民币2525万元）。而且，似乎已经引起了一些科技及新媒体公司高管买家的兴趣。
“The mind-set of wildly successful people who are under 40, if you think about what made them that kind of money, it is a pioneering, creative spirit,” Mr. Tamarkin said. “They have a lot of self-confidence — they aren’t relying on an address or someone’s name to give them that cachet, but rather they are going on their spirit.”
“这些不到40岁的成功人士，如果你想想看他们是怎么赚到的那些钱，那是他们所怀有的开拓、创新的精神，”塔玛金说，“他们都非常自信——所以他们并不依赖一个地址，或某个名字来给自己打上某种标签。他们宁愿按照自己的意愿行事。”