William Boyd’s new James Bond book, “Solo,” takes Britain’s best-known spy to the war-ravaged jungles of West Africa and the insalubrious streets of 1960s Washington, with interludes of sex, drinking, the suggestion of homoerotic torture and other familiar Bondian amusements. But in writing nearly 50 years after the death of Bond’s creator, Ian Fleming, Mr. Boyd faced some contemporary dangers.
在威廉·博伊德(William Boyd)最新创作的詹姆斯·邦德(James Bond)小说《单飞》(Solo)里，这位英国最著名的间谍来到了西非饱受战争蹂躏的丛林和上世纪60年代华盛顿肮脏破旧的街头，故事中穿插着性、酒精、隐晦的同性恋式酷刑折磨，还有其他一些为人熟知的邦德式娱乐。但在邦德之父伊恩·弗莱明(Ian Fleming)去世近50年后，博伊德在写作过程中却面临了一些当代危机。
These included: How to appease Bond zealots suspicious of anyone tampering with their beloved character. How to satisfy Fleming’s estate, which hired Mr. Boyd for the project. And how to remain true to his own standards while honoring the spirit of an author he never met and getting inside the head of an anachronistic character he did not create.
这包括：如何取悦邦德迷，他们总是生怕有人会糟蹋了他们挚爱的人物。如何让聘请博伊德续写小说的弗莱明遗产继承人满意。以及，如何尊重从未谋面的原作者的精神，进入一个并非由自己创造出来的过时角色的内心，同时又忠于自己的标准。
Mr. Boyd is not the first to grapple with these kinds of questions. Fleming produced 14 Bond books, but at least 35 more have been published since his death by a parade of talented and less-talented authors including Kingsley Amis and, most recently, the British novelist Sebastian Faulks. Also these days — whether by design or by that strange alchemic process by which publishers all do the same thing at the same time — a number of sequels, homages and retellings of tales from long-dead authors are suddenly crowding the shelves.
博伊德并非第一个面临这些问题的人。弗莱明自己写了14部邦德小说，但他离世后，至少又有35部该系列小说出版，作者包括金斯利·艾米斯(Kingsley Amis)和离现在更近的英国小说家塞巴斯蒂安·福克斯(Sebastian Faulks)，他们当中有的才华横溢，有的则不然。而现如今，也不知是因为有意安排的，还是因为出版商们总是会莫名其妙地出于某种神秘力量在同一时间做同样的事情，书店货架上突然充斥了大量离世已久作者作品的续篇，以及向其致敬或重述其故事的书籍。
Next month, Mr. Faulks is to publish “Jeeves and the Wedding Bells,” a valentine to the singularly exquisite prose and intricate plotting of P. G. Wodehouse. Next year, the British mystery writer Sophie Hannah plans to resurrect Agatha Christie’s Hercule Poirot in a new novel. And Alexander McCall Smith is writing a contemporary version of Jane Austen’s “Emma,” one in a HarperCollins series that will eventually include a retelling of “Pride and Prejudice” by Curtis Sittenfeld.
下个月，福克斯将出版《吉夫斯和婚礼上的钟声》(Jeeves and the Wedding Bells)，来向P·G·伍德豪斯(P. G. Wodehouse)极其优美的语言和复杂的情节设置致敬。明年，英国推理小说家索菲·汉娜(Sophie Hannah)计划通过一部新小说让阿加莎·克里斯蒂(Agatha Christie)笔下的人物赫尔克里·波洛(Hercule Poirot)复活。《艾玛》(Emma)是简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)的作品，而亚历山大·麦考尔·史密斯(Alexander McCall  Smith)正在写一部当代版《艾玛》。这本书是哈珀·柯林斯出版社(HarperCollins)系列作品中的一部，该系列最终还将包括经科蒂斯·希登费尔德(Curtis Sittenfeld)重新演绎过的《傲慢与偏见》(Pride and Prejudice)。
Meanwhile, the Irish author John Banville (using the pen name Benjamin Black) has written a new Raymond Chandler novel to be published in March. And the British writer Anthony Horowitz in 2011 published “The House of Silk,” a Conan Doyle-esque mystery starring Sherlock Holmes.
与此同时，爱尔兰作家约翰·班维尔(John Banville)（笔名本杰明·布莱克[Benjamin Black]）也新写了一本延续雷蒙德·钱德勒(Raymond Chandler)笔下人物故事的小说，小说将于明年3月出版。2011年，英国作家安东尼·霍洛维茨(Anthony Horowitz)出版了《丝之屋》(The House of Silk)，这是一本柯南·道尔(Conan Doyle)风格的推理小说，小说主人公正是夏洛克·福尔摩斯(Sherlock Holmes)。
What is going on here? These are all successful novelists. Can’t they stick to their own creations? And what about readers? How much do they want to trust cherished fictional characters to the whims and imaginations of people who might not share the original authors’ sense or sensibility?
这到底是怎么了？他们都是成功的小说家。难道就不能坚持自己的创作吗？读者又会做何反应？读者会在多大程度上愿意把自己喜欢的小说人物交给那些可能不认同原作者思维或情感的人，任其进行天马行空的想象？
“I think it’s a reader-driven thing,” said Mr. Boyd, who was interviewed on the phone from London and later in person in New York. “If people like the characters and like the stories, they want more of the same. Because authors are finite creatures and stop writing and fall off their perches, these rebootings can satisfy readers’ needs. People want to find out what Elizabeth Bennet did next.”
“我认为这是一件由读者推动的事情，”博伊德说。他先在伦敦接受了电话采访，后来又在纽约当面接受采访。“如果人们喜欢相关角色，喜欢相关的故事，他们会希望看到更多同样的内容。因为作家的生命是有限的，会停止写作，也会死去，而这样的“延续”能满足读者的需要。人们会想知道伊丽莎白·班纳特(Elizabeth Bennet)后来又做了什么。”
Mr. Boyd, a critics’ favorite whose books include “A Good Man in Africa” and “Any Human Heart,” said he took on the project at the invitation of the Fleming estate because he already knew a great deal about Fleming and the Bond books. And as the author of two spy novels, he was intrigued by the possibilities — and by the freedom he was given to write the book like himself, not like Fleming.
博伊德深受评论家的喜爱，作品包括《非洲好人》(A Good Man in Africa)和《人心》(Any Human Heart)。他说，自己应弗莱明遗产继承人的邀请续写邦德系列小说，是因为他对弗莱明和邦德系列小说有着深入了解。而且，作为两部间谍小说的作者，这一任务的潜力和自由激起了他的兴趣。他将能够以自己的风格，而不是弗莱明的风格写作邦德故事。
“I wanted to write a gritty, realistic spy novel about a human being, not anything fantastical or silly, with organizations trying to rule the world,” he said. “I wanted him to be a living, breathing 45-year-old man going on a real mission and encountering real people.”
“我想写一本逼真的现实主义间谍小说，主人公是一个普通人，既不是精彩绝伦，也不是愚蠢至极，他对抗的组织企图统治全世界，”他说，“我希望他是一个活生生的45岁男子，在执行一次真实的任务，遇到一些真实的人。”
Authors’ estates that still hold copyright — in the case of Fleming, this will last until 2034, 70 years after his death — stand to make tidy profits from licensing the rights for sequels, and can also lure new readers to old franchises.
作家的遗产继承人仍享有其著作的版权，就弗莱明来说，他的版权将延伸至他死后的70年，到2034年失效。他们总是乐于为续篇授权，因为从中可以获得可观的利润，同时还能为这些过时的系列故事吸引新读者。
“This is bringing a fresh, new interesting life to Bond,” said Corinne Turner, managing director of Ian Fleming Publications. It’s “about the heritage,” she said, not the money.
“这正给邦德带来鲜活的、有趣的新生命，”伊恩·弗莱明出版有限公司(Ian Fleming Publications)的董事总经理科琳娜·特纳(Corinne Turner)说。这“有关传统，”她说，而不是钱的问题。
Still, some readers and critics question the worth of such enterprises.
但一些读者和书评人仍然质疑这种项目的价值。
“Our civilization echoes to the sound of the bottom of barrels being industriously scraped,” David Mitchell wrote in The Observer of London. “No franchise must be left unexploited, no film unremade, no TV series unreimagined in our commercial desperation to avoid the undignified recourse of trying to think of a new idea.” (For good measure, he said that hiring a “proper novelist” instead of a “hack” to write a sequel was “a bit like paying an actual film star to have sex with you rather than a prostitute.”)
“人们总是努力搜刮最后一点有价值的东西，我们的文明中响彻费力刮桶底的声音，”大卫·米切尔(David Mitchell)在伦敦的《观察家报》(The Observer)上如此写道。“我们的商业操作总是会不惜一切代价地避免创新，因为那是会让人颜面扫地的，所有的特许权都要竭尽其用，所有的电影都要进行翻拍，所有的电视剧都要进行重新演绎，”（当然，他也指出，请一位“真正的小说家”而不是“幕后写手”来续写经典作品，“有点儿像花钱请一位真正的电影明星来上床，而不是一名妓女。”）
And Mr. Boyd has received mixed reviews from the public and from critics, perhaps because the James Bond many readers have come to expect is not Fleming’s at all, but the much more exciting cinematic version.
公众和书评人对博伊德作品的反应好坏参半，也许是因为对很多读者来说，他们所期待的詹姆斯·邦德已和弗莱明笔下的詹姆斯·邦德没有多少关系了，而是更激动人心的大屏幕版本。
“The guy can clearly write, and he’s obviously done his homework,” a reader named Derek W. Ridgers wrote on the British Amazon Web site. “It’s just that it’s so very dull as a book.”
“这家伙显然挺能写的，而且看来也做足了功课，”一位名叫德里克·W·里杰斯(Derek W. Ridgers)的读者在英国的亚马逊(Amazon)网站上写道。“只是这作为一本书来说太乏味了。”
In The New York Times, Michiko Kakutani wrote that Mr. Boyd’s version was “a perfectly well-carpentered and, at times, suspenseful novel,” but that his hero often “comes across as more of a weary civil servant than one of Her Majesty’s licensed-to-kill agents.”
角谷美智子(Michiko Kakutani)在《纽约时报》上写道，博伊德的作品是“一本精心雕琢的、时而扣人心悬的小说，”但他书中的这位英雄总是“看着更像是一个疲惫的公务员，而不是一位持有女王杀人执照的特工。”
Mr. Faulks said in an e-mail that his Wooster-Jeeves book is meant “as a thank-you letter to an author who has brought so much pleasure, and as a possible gateway for younger readers to pass through to the real thing.” But he has encountered a torrent of unflattering commentary from Wodehouse aficionados.
福克斯在一封邮件里说，他的伍斯特(Wooster)-吉夫斯小说本是“用来感谢一位为我们带来这么多乐趣的作家，是一封感谢信，也希望能引导年轻一代的读者欣赏真正有价值的作品。”但他却遭到了来自伍德豪斯迷的一阵狂轰滥炸。
“Vain, arrogant, hubris, delusional, lunatic folly, fat bearded git — these are some of the more printable terms that have been applied,” Mr. Faulks said. “I agree with all of them, though I am not that fat.”
“自负的、傲慢的、自大的、患有妄想症的、精神失常而愚蠢的、满脸胡子的胖饭桶——这些还都是他们用过的一些算是说得出口的字眼，”福克斯说，“我同意所有这些说法，但我还不太胖。”
Mr. Boyd said he enjoyed steeping himself in Bond’s world and then extrapolating. He gave Bond a World War II back story, for example, and imagined that because Bond had been orphaned at 11, he might look to M, his boss, for some kind of (one-sided) emotional relationship. (He also discovered Bond’s enjoyment of cooking and included his own recipe for vinaigrette.)
博伊德说，他享受沉浸在邦德的世界里，然后推断其故事的发展。例如，他给了邦德的故事一个二次世界大战的背景，而且设想，因为邦德早在11岁就成为孤儿，他可能会试图从他的老板M那里寻找某种（一厢情愿的）情感联系。（他也发现邦德喜爱烹饪，还用上了他自己的醋油色拉调味汁配方。）
One potential happy side effect for him and other writers of books like these is that it can liberate them, allowing them to retain their own writerly essence while stepping outside themselves, however briefly.
对于博伊德和其他这类书的作家来说，这么做可能带来的积极一面是，可以解放他们，允许他们保持自己作为作家的特质，而同时走出自身的限制，尽管这只是暂时的。
But, Ms. Turner said, authors of Mr. Boyd and Mr. Faulks’s stature were unlikely to do it more than once.
但特纳表示，像博伊德和福克斯这样有名望的作家，他们不太可能会再次这么做。
“They find it fun and enjoyable,” she said, “but they’ve got their own books to write.”
“他们觉得这很有意思、令人愉快，”她说，“但他们还有自己的书要写。”