Egypt may have dodged a bullet last month when a handful of Gulf states pledged $12 billion in emergency aid to prop up the country’s flagging economy, which has been battling inflation while running dangerously low on foreign currency reserves. But the bailout underscored the extent to which perverse political incentives have become Egypt’s biggest economic problem. As long as the country can count on foreign revenue streams, its leaders will continue to put off much-needed economic reforms — a dangerous dynamic that sets Egypt on the path to financial ruin.
上个月埃及可以说算是躲过了一劫，当时，数个波斯湾国家承诺投入120亿美元（约合734.6亿元人民币）的紧急援助，来支撑该国日渐衰弱的经济，埃及一直在和通货膨胀作斗争，同时外汇储备已经低到危险的程度。然而，此次救援突显了罔顾常理的政治动机已经成为埃及最大的经济问题。只要埃及能够依赖外国资金流，它的领导人就会推迟急需的经济改革，这种危险的牵制将埃及引入了一条财政破产之路。
Flush with cash from the Gulf, Egypt’s military-installed leaders have already signaled they will not pursue negotiations with the International Monetary Fund over a long-planned $4.8 billion loan that would require painful tax hikes and subsidy cuts.
怀揣着波斯湾诸国的大量现金，由埃及军方安插的领导人已经表示，他们不会寻求与国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）进行谈判，该谈判涉及一项价值48亿美元的长期规划贷款项目，将要求埃及实施痛苦的增税和削减补贴措施。
“The time is not appropriate to begin a new round of negotiations with the I.M.F.,” the interim planning minister, Ashraf al-Araby, said last month. “Aid from Arab countries will help Egypt get through the transitional period.”
上个月，在埃及临时政府担任计划与国际合作部长的阿什拉夫·阿拉比(Ashraf al-Araby)说，“现在不是启动和IMF的新一轮谈判的恰当时机。来自阿拉伯国家的援助将帮助埃及渡过转型期难关。”
From a political standpoint, Araby would be crazy to say anything else. No incumbent in his or her right mind would take on the political risk of economic reform in the face of such easy cash.
从政治角度来看，阿拉伯半岛各国对此不会有半句异议，除非他们疯了。面对唾手可得的现金，没有哪个思维正常的在位领导人，脑子里会出现承担经济改革的政治风险的念头。
Every time Egypt’s foreign reserves fall to a critical threshold and there is pressure on its currency, rich Gulf neighbors come to the rescue. During Mohamed Morsi’s tenure as president, Qatar was the chief patron, extending some $8 billion in assistance since the removal of Hosni Mubarak in 2011. Following Morsi’s ouster, it has been Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates that have shored up its finances.
每一次埃及的外汇储备跌到危急关头，其货币面临压力时，富裕的波斯湾邻国就会伸出援手。在穆罕默德·穆尔西(Mohamed Morsi)担任总统时，卡塔尔是埃及的主要赞助国，自胡斯尼·穆巴拉克(Hosni Mubarak)于2011年下台以来，该国已经给埃及提供了约80亿美元的援助款。穆尔西被罢黜之后，是沙特阿拉伯、科威特和阿拉伯联合酋长国在支撑着埃及的财政大局。
As a result, Egypt has been able to avoid making hard choices. In particular, it has been able to sustain a bloated subsidy regime — mostly devoted to fuel and wheat — that eats up as much as 25 percent of total state expenditures and overwhelmingly benefits rich urban residents. A recent African Development Bank report estimates that in urban areas, more than 90 percent of gasoline subsidies go to the top 40 percent of the population.
结果就是，埃及一直得以避免做出艰难的选择。尤其是它一直得以维持一个臃肿的补贴制度，其中大部分款项都被用于补贴燃料和小麦了，这种制度侵占了多达25%的国家总支出，让富裕的城市居民获得了绝大部分利益。非洲开发银行(African Development Bank)最近的一份报告估计，在埃及的城市地区，有超过90%的汽油补贴落入了最富裕的40%的人口手中。
Likewise, the leaders have been able to put off financial and regulatory reforms that would make the economy more competitive in the long run. Two-and-a-half years after Mubarak, finance still remains inaccessible for small firms (though numerous donor initiatives have sprouted up). Meanwhile, Egypt’s archaic bankruptcy laws impose a heavy penalty for business failure, effectively discouraging experimentation. Declaring bankruptcy can land a merchant in jail, barred from doing business in the future and still liable for the debt.
同样地，领导人还得以推迟金融和监管改革，从长期看，这些改革能让经济更具竞争力。在穆巴拉克下台两年半之后，小公司依然无法获得融资（尽管有无数的赞助提案破土而出）。与此同时，过时的埃及破产法对经营失败的商人施以重罚，此举实际上阻碍了经营尝试。宣布破产可以让一名商人入狱，剥夺他今后从商的资格，而且他还得承担债务。
Despite Egypt’s brief experiment with Muslim Brotherhood rule, the underlying balance of economic power has changed very little since Mubarak’s day. Many of the old crony capitalists have been sidelined (and a few are in jail) but the basic rules of the game remain skewed in favor of a tiny elite — chief among which is the Egyptian military.
虽然埃及经历了穆斯林兄弟会(Muslim Brotherhood)短暂的统治试验，然而，自穆巴拉克当政以来，经济权力的平衡根基基本没有改变。许多和昔日当权者沾亲带故的资本家都被排挤到了一边（有几个还进了监狱），可是，游戏的基本规则依然偏向于支持一小撮精英，这些精英中的领头人物是埃及军方人士。
The privileged position of the Egyptian armed forces has been maintained through another, equally destructive, revenue stream: $1.3 billion in annual direct military assistance from the United States. That aid, which has come under increased scrutiny since the July 3 coup, consists mostly of defense procurement contracts that keep Egypt’s military well stocked with shiny M1A1 Abrams tanks and F-16 fighter jets — hardware with little strategic value, but considerable importance to the military’s prestige.
长期以来，埃及武装部队的优越地位一直通过另一个同样不起作用的资金来源得以维系：那就是来自美国价值13亿美元的直接军事援助。援助的主要方式是签订国防采购合同，让埃及军方坐拥威风凛凛的M1A1“艾布拉姆斯”坦克(M1A1 Abrams)和F-16战斗机——这些硬件设备没太大战略价值，但对于维持军队威望来说十分重要，而该援助自7月3日政变以来受到了越来越多的审查。
The technology transferred through direct U.S. military assistance has also played a central role in bolstering the military’s economic empire (sometimes estimated to be as high as 40 percent of Egypt’s G.D.P.).
通过美国直接军事援助转移来的技术，也在壮大埃及军方的经济帝国中发挥了主要作用（有人估计这一经济帝国的产值可占到埃及GDP的40%）。
At the same Egyptian plant where the U.S.-made M1A1 Abrams tanks are assembled, for example, the military produces commercial construction vehicles that are sold on the domestic market. These commercial spinoffs enjoy special privileges and monopoly concessions that crowd out possible competitors from Egypt’s already moribund private sector.
比如，在组装美国产M1A1“艾布拉姆斯”坦克的埃及工厂里，军方同时在生产用于国内市场销售的商用工程车辆。这些商用附属产品享受着特殊优惠和垄断特许权，从而挤走了埃及已经停滞不前的私营经济中的潜在竞争者。
As long as the military is in charge, the distortions caused by its economic privileges are likely to remain in place. What the interim government could do, however, is meet Egypt’s fiscal problems head-on, replacing the current subsidy scheme with a more progressive system of targeted cash transfers and widening its tax net to include even those with political connections.
只要军方继续掌权，其经济特权造成的发展扭曲就不会消失。然而，过渡政府所能做的是，直面埃及的财政问题，通过一个更激进的现金定向转移支付制度取代现有的补贴计划，同时扩大征税范围，将那些有政治关系的人也囊括其中。
On the regulatory front, it could overhaul the bankruptcy code, dismantle nontariff barriers that are used to protect political insiders from competition, and extend financing to smaller companies by making the country’s banking system more competitive (four banks control about 50 percent of the market right now).
在监管层面，政府可以全面改革破产法，取消那些旨在保护有政治背景的人免于竞争的非关税贸易壁垒，通过增强国家银行业体系内部的竞争让小公司也能获得融资（目前四家银行控制着50%的市场份额）。
Such reforms would help remove barriers to entry for new companies, kick-starting private sector development and improving Egypt’s long-term economic prospects.
这些改革措施有助于为新公司进入市场消除障碍，刺激私营经济发展，增强埃及的经济发展长远前景。
Ironically, the Egyptian economy has been picking up since the countrywide protests on June 30 that served as a pretext for the military putsch. Fuel and food prices have fallen, the pound has stabilized, and the country’s stock exchange has posted substantial gains.
讽刺的是，事后成为军方政变借口的6月30日全国性抗议爆发以来，埃及经济状况就一直在不停改善。燃料和食物价格下降，埃及镑价值稳定，股市也取得可观上涨。
But Egypt’s leaders should not mistake these developments for indicators of long-term economic health. On the contrary, they reflect forces beyond Cairo’s control — a new credit line from the Gulf — and serve to underscore Egypt’s deep vulnerability as one of the most aid-dependent economies in the Middle East.
但是，埃及的领导人不应错误地以为，这些发展代表着该国长期的经济健康。相反，它们反映了在开罗掌控背后的势力——一个来自波斯湾的资金新来源——这正突显了作为中东地区对援助依赖程度最大的国家之一的埃及，经济是极为脆弱的。