SEOUL, South Korea — Another powerful blast at North Korea’s underground nuclear test site could destabilize the area and send radioactive material into the atmosphere, the head of South Korea’s weather agency said on Monday
韩国首尔——韩国气象部门负责人周一表示，如果在朝鲜的地下核试验基地再次发生威力巨大的爆炸的话，可能会使该处不稳定，让放射性物质进入大气层。
“Should another nuclear takes place, there is that possibility,” Nam Jae-cheol, director of the Korea Meteorological Administration, told lawmakers inquiring about the potential for radioactive fallout.
“如果再次发生核试验，就有这种可能，”韩国气象局局长南在哲(Nam Jae-cheol)对议员们说。
North Korea has conducted six nuclear tests since 2006, all of them in tunnels buried deep under Mount Mantap in Punggye-ri, in North Hamgyong Province.
自从2006年起，朝鲜已经进行了六次核试验，都是在咸镜北道丰溪里万塔山下深处的隧道里进行的。
Fears that the repeated nuclear explosions might be destabilizing the mountain have spread since the North’s latest and most powerful nuclear test on Sept. 3. The test produced between 50 and 300 kilotons of explosive energy, according to government and private estimates. In comparison, the bomb dropped on Hiroshima, Japan, during World War II produced 15 kilotons.
朝鲜今年9月3日进行了最近一次、也是威力最大的一次核试验之后，对该地不断发生的核爆炸可能会破坏山体稳定的担忧越来越多。据政府和民间估计，最近这次试验产生的爆炸当量约为5到30万吨。相比之下，二战期间投放在日本广岛的原子弹的爆炸当量是1.5万吨。
Since the newest test, the authorities have detected four minor tremors from the test site, which some experts attributed to underground cave-ins caused by the powerful explosion. Commercial satellite imagery has also shown landslides and other earth deformations at the site.
自从发生了最近的核试验后，韩国当局已经探测到四次来自试验场地的轻微地震，一些专家认为地震是强力爆炸引起的地下塌陷造成的。商业卫星图像也显示了试验场地有山体滑坡和其他地表形变。
An analysis of satellite imagery found a cavity as much as 300 feet wide under Mount Mantop, Mr. Nam told lawmakers on Monday during a parliamentary audit of his agency.
周一，在国会对气象局进行的一次审计中，南在哲对议员们说，对卫星图像的分析发现，万塔山的下面有一个宽达90米的洞穴。
On Friday, The South China Morning Post reported that researchers at the Institute of Geology and Geophysics, an arm of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, had warned their North Korean counterparts of an implosion at the test site, 50 miles from the border with China.
据《南华早报》上周五报道，中国科学院下属的地质与地球物理研究所的研究人员曾因在距离中朝边境80公里的试验场发生向内坍塌，向他们的朝鲜同行发出过警告。
A day after the Sept. 3 test, the newspaper quoted a senior Chinese nuclear scientist who warned that a future test could blow the top off Mount Mantop, causing radioactive contamination of the atmosphere.
9月3日核试验之后的第二天，该报援引一位中国资深核科学家的话警告说，未来的某次试验可能会把万塔山的顶部炸开，造成大气层受到放射性物质污染。
Writing for the website 38 North, the researchers Frank V. Pabian and Jack Liu warned this month against “speculative fears,” saying that post-test tremors were not unusual. There was no reason to believe that North Korea would abandon Punggye-ri as a nuclear testing site, they said.
研究人员弗兰克·V·帕比安(Frank V. Pabian)和杰克·刘(Jack Liu)本月在给网站“北纬38度”(38 North)写的文章中,对“推测性担忧”做出警告，称试验后发生地震并不罕见。他们说，没有理由认为朝鲜会放弃丰溪里，不将其作为核试验基地。
“While radioactive material would be released into the environment if the collapse occurred right after a test, the amount of fallout, even from a weapon in the 100 kiloton range, would likely only cause significant contamination in the vicinity of the site and perhaps a few hundred miles downwind,” said Edwin Lyman, a senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists, which is based in Cambridge, Mass.
“如果塌陷是在核试验后马上发生的话，虽然放射性物质会被释放到环境中去，但这种释放，即使是来自10万吨当量级的武器，也有很大的可能只会给试验场附近以及也许几百公里的下风地带带来严重污染，”总部设在马萨诸塞州坎布里奇市的忧思科学家联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)的资深科学家埃德温·莱曼(Edwin Lyman)说。
“Nevertheless, any amount of radioactive contamination of the environment from North Korea’s abhorrent nuclear test program is unacceptable and would add insult to injury,” he said.
“尽管如此，来自朝鲜令人厌恶的核试验项目对环境产生的任何放射性污染都是不可接受的，而且是加倍的伤害，”他说。
The United States and its allies are accelerating their global campaign to apply sanctions and pressure against North Korea.
美国及其盟国正在加速他们对朝鲜制裁和施压的全球行动。