HONG KONG — A $2.4 billion takeover and privatization bid by Cheng Yu-tung, one of Asia’s richest men, won support from investors who owned 99.84 percent of the eligible shares in the target, New World China Land, a property developer in mainland China. But it was not enough.
香港——亚洲富豪郑裕彤以24亿美元（约合148亿元人民币）收购中国大陆地产公司新世界中国地产、将其私有化的计划，赢得了持有该地产公司99.84%有资格股份的投资者的支持。不过，这是不够的。
Shares in New World China fell as much as 22 percent in Hong Kong on Tuesday after the developer said late Monday that the takeover bid from its parent company, Mr. Cheng’s New World Development, had failed after being vetoed by investors who owned just 0.16 percent of the total shares that allowed voting.
新世界中国地产有限公司周一晚些时候表示，自己的母公司，也就是郑裕彤的新世界发展公司提出的收购计划未能成功，因为仅持有具有投票权的总股份0.16%的投资者投了反对票。周二在香港股市，新世界中国地产的股价一度下跌了22%。
Mr. Cheng’s bid is the latest example of a takeover that failed on what is known as the ‘‘head count test,’’ which takes into account not just the number of shares that are voted but includes a separate tally of the number of physical shareholders voting, a so-called head count.
郑裕彤这次失败的尝试是败在所谓的“数人头”规则的收购的最新例子，该规则不仅考虑投票的股份数量，还要另外参考实际参与投票的股东人数，也就是所谓的人头数。
Critics of the stipulation say it leaves certain shareholder votes open to abuse. After an investigation by the local securities regulator, a Hong Kong court in 2009 blocked a $2.2 billion bid by Richard Li — the son of Asia’s richest man, Li Ka-shing — to privatize P.C.C.W., a telecommunications company controlled by the younger Mr. Li. The court found that the vote approving the takeover had been manipulated by share-splitting designed to pass the head count test. Partly as a result of the P.C.C.W. case, Hong Kong scrapped the head count test in 2012.
批评“数人头”规则的人称，该规则让某些持有投票股的股东可以被操纵。2009年香港证券监管机构在经过调查之后，阻止了亚洲首富李嘉诚的儿子李泽楷，以22亿美元将自己控股的电信公司电讯盈科公司私有化的企图。法庭发现，赞成收购的投票股份曾被操纵，以股票分割的形式让持赞成股的人数得以通过人头数检验。这个案子的部分结果是，香港在2012年取消了“数人头”的规定。
‘‘The head count test is an anachronistic hangover from Victorian England, which frustrates the principle of 1 share, 1 vote employed in modern corporate governance,’’ said David Webb, publisher of the financial and corporate governance website Webb-site and a deputy chairman of Hong Kong’s Takeovers Panel.
金融及企业监管网站Webb-site的出版人兼香港收购委员会(Takeovers Panel)副主席戴维·韦布(David Webb)说，“人头数检验是维多利亚时代的英国遗留下来的一个过时的做法，让现代企业监管的一股一票原则无能为力。”
‘‘The head count test can be abused either to promote a scheme, as in the P.C.C.W. vote-splitting case, or to block it,’’ said Mr. Webb, who is credited with tipping off the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission to suspected vote-rigging in the P.C.C.W. case.
韦布说，“‘数人头’规则能够被滥用到促成一个方案上，比如电讯盈科的股票分割案，也可以被滥用到阻止一个计划上。”韦布曾向香港证券及期货事务监察委员会(Securities and Futures Commission)举报电讯盈科案存在投票操纵嫌疑而立了功。
Although Hong Kong scrapped the head count test locally, only 13 percent of the companies listed on the city’s stock market are actually incorporated locally. Instead, most are incorporated in the Cayman Islands or Bermuda, which still use the head count test. These two offshore centers are the registered domiciles for 75 percent of the companies listed in Hong Kong, according to a database on Mr. Webb’s site.
虽然香港对当地注册的公司废除了“数人头”的规定，但在香港上市的公司中只有13%是在当地注册。大多数公司则是在开曼群岛或百慕大群岛注册，这些地方仍使用人头数检验。据韦布的网站数据显示，有75%的香港上市公司的注册处所是在曼群岛和百慕大群岛这两个离岸中心。
The head count test does not apply to traditional takeovers or direct offers to shareholders, which in Hong Kong require winning support from shareholders that own at least 90 percent of the shares being voted. Instead, head counts are a factor when a company — as Mr. Cheng’s did — pursues a takeover through a ‘‘scheme of arrangement,’’ which is a court-facilitated process used in takeovers and is also common in Britain, Australia, Singapore, New Zealand and South Africa.
人头数检验不被用于传统的收购或直接从股东购买股份的收购，这种情况在香港需要获得持有至少90%投票股的股东支持。反之，当一个公司，像郑裕彤的公司那样，试图通过协议进行收购时，则要考虑“数人头”的因素，“协议收购”是一种由法院协调的收购过程，这种做法在英国、澳大利亚、新加坡、新西兰和南非也很常见。
Such arrangements are popular because they require a lower threshold for passing a takeover bid and also because the process can move faster. To pass under such an arrangement, a takeover bid needs the support of only 75 percent of the shares being voted. But it also needs to win support from more than 50 percent of the shareholders actually voting.
这种收购方式受欢迎的一个原因在于，其所需要的赞成股份的门槛较低，而且收购的过程可以更快。根据这种安排，收购计划只需要75%参与投票的股份支持就可以通过。但还需要赢得50%以上的实际参与投票的股东支持。
‘‘The scheme of arrangement is a court-driven process and hence, there is more certainty’’ for bidders, said Mark Chan, a partner in Hong Kong at the law firm Berwin Leighton Paisner who focuses on capital markets transactions. ‘‘However, it’s also less flexible as compared to a normal general offer. It really depends on your shareholder base, and the level of support that you think you can get.’’
以香港资本市场交易为主要业务的英国博问律师事务所(Berwin Leighton Paisner)合伙人马可·詹（Mark Chan，音译）说，“协议收购是一个由法院主导的过程，”对收购者来说，“因此也更具确定性。但是，与正常的总体收购相比，这个过程不够灵活。协议收购实际上取决于你的股东基础，以及你认为你能得到的支持水平。”
The problem in Hong Kong is that shareholders rarely go to the trouble of registering their shares in their own names, which is a cumbersome, paper-centric process. Instead, they usually leave them on deposit at the central clearing system, which registers them to a generic nominee company.
香港的问题是，股东很少会不怕麻烦地把股份注册在自己名下，因为这个过程很繁杂，要填不少的表。持股人通常会把股份存在一个中央结算系统，该系统用一个通用持有公司的名义注册他们。
In the case of votes under a scheme of arrangement, this nominee company — which may hold a majority of the shares in the takeover target — counts as only two votes when it comes to the head count test: one in favor and one against.
在协议收购方式的投票中，这个名义持有公司在人头数检验中只被算为两票，一个赞成票，一个反对票，而该公司也许持有收购目标公司的多数股份。
New World Development announced its bid for New World China in March, offering 6.80 Hong Kong dollars per share — a premium of more than 30 percent to where the stock traded before the bid. The deal valued the China unit, which was already 70 percent-owned by New World Development, at about 60 billion dollars, or nearly $8 billion.
新世界发展公司在3月份宣布以每股6.8港元的价格收购新世界中国地产时，该价格比新世界中国地产的股票在收购计划出来前的交易价高出30%。这笔交易将新世界中国的市值提高到约600亿港元（相当于近80亿美元），新世界发展公司在收购前已经持有新世界中国地产70%的股份。
But when it came time for shareholders in New World China, a Cayman Islands company, to vote on the bid, the 99.84 percent of the shares in favor of the takeover were held by only 255 registered shareholders. The 0.16 percent of stakeholders who opposed the bid represented 494 registered individual shareholders, or 66 percent — enough for the deal to fail the head count test.
但是当在开曼群岛注册的新世界中国地产的股东开始对收购计划进行投票时，投赞成票的99.84%股份只有255名注册持有人。投反对票的持有0.16%股份的股东却代表了494名注册个人，此数占投票股东数的66%，足以让收购无法通过人头数检验。
New World Development must now wait 12 months before it can launch another offer for the company.
新世界发展公司现在必须等待12个月，才能再次投标收购新世界中国地产。
After Hong Kong abolished the head count rule two years ago, it replaced it with a requirement for plan of arrangements that says a deal can be vetoed if 10 percent of the independent shares are voted against it, similar to the 90 percent approval threshold for a normal takeover offer.
香港在两年前废除“数人头”的规定后，在协议收购中取代该规定的要求是，如果有10%的独立股份投票反对，收购方案则无法通过，这与正常收购过程中的90%股份支持的门槛相似。
‘‘The Cayman Islands and Bermuda where 75 percent of Hong Kong-listed companies, by number, are incorporated, should follow suit,’’ Mr. Webb said.
韦布说，“作为香港上市公司中75%的公司的注册所在地，开曼群岛和百慕大群岛应该效仿香港的做法。”