Airlines, governments, pilots and aircraft manufacturers all agreed at a conference on Tuesday that a global system for tracking commercial aircraft is badly needed, a United Nations aviation agency said. But the parties sidestepped a key question: whether aircrews should be able to turn off all the equipment that makes them visible.
在本周二的一个会议上，航空公司、政府、飞行员和飞机制造商均认为，迫切需要部署一个追踪民用飞机的全球系统，联合国(United Nations)下属的一个航空机构表示。但各方没有解决一个关键问题：是否应该允许机组人员关闭所有可以让飞机显形的设备。
The issue gained urgency after Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared nearly without a trace in March, while in flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing with 239 people aboard. The search for the Boeing 777 jet has been greatly complicated by the fact that several onboard communications systems stopped working around the time the plane veered off course. Investigators suspect the systems were deliberately shut off, though they will not be able to say for certain until the wreckage of the plane is found, if then.
马来西亚航空公司370航班今年3月消失无踪之后，这个问题的紧迫性突显出来。该航班原定从马来西亚吉隆坡飞往北京，机上共有239人。在偏离航道的时候，机上的几个通讯系统停止了工作，导致寻找这架波音777飞机的复杂性大大增加。调查人员怀疑这些系统是有人故意关闭的，不过在找到飞机残骸前，他们还不能确认。
The search, now focused on remote, deep waters in the Indian Ocean, has already cost tens of millions of dollars and may take years. In the meantime, safety experts say, it is hard to know what measures might have prevented the disappearance.
搜寻行动目前集中在印度洋偏远的深水海域，迄今已经耗资数千万美元，可能还要持续多年。与此同时，安全专家表示，很难弄清楚当时预先采取什么措施，才能避免此次飞机的失踪。
Commercial aircraft usually announce their identities and positions through a device called a transponder, and there have been calls to make it difficult or impossible to deactivate transponders from the cockpit, as hijackers have done in several instances and as someone on Flight 370 might have done.
民用飞机通常通过一个名为应答器的设备来表明其身份和位置。有人呼吁，要让驾驶舱里的人难以或无法禁用应答器，之前就有劫机者这样做过几次，这次在370航班上可能也有人这样做了。
Even so, “there are reasons why you want to have a transponder be able to be turned off,” said Nancy J. Graham, director of the air navigation bureau of the United Nations agency, the International Civil Aviation Organization. Agency officials said they would not commit to a tracking system unless it becomes obvious the plane disappeared because of a deliberate act.
即便如此，“也有一些理由将应答器设置为可以关闭的”，南茜·J·格雷厄姆(Nancy J. Graham)说。她是联合国下属机构国际民用航空组织(International Civil Aviation Organization)空中导航局的局长。民航组织多名官员表示，如果不能明确认定飞机失踪的原因是某人有意为之，他们就不会认准一个追踪系统。
One reason is the risk of fire on board. Kevin Hiatt, senior vice president of safety and flight operations at the International Air Transport Association, an industry group that is leading a task force to explore tracking solutions, noted that the crash of Swissair Flight 111 off Nova Scotia in September 1998 taught a lesson: The probable cause was an electrical fire in the plane’s in-flight entertainment system, and if the crew could have turned it off more easily, “they would probably still be here.” All aboard that plane were killed.
其中一个原因是飞机可能会起火。国际航空运输协会（International Air Transport Association，简称IATA）负责安全和飞行操作的高级副总裁凯文·希亚特(Kevin Hiatt)指出，瑞士航空(Swissair)的111航班1998年9月在加拿大新斯科舍省坠毁的事故就是一个教训：失事原因可能是那架飞机的机载娱乐系统电路起火，如果机组人员当时可以比较容易地关闭它，“他们可能至今健在”。机上所有人员都在那起空难中丧生。IATA是一个行业组织，该组织正领导一个工作组，研究追踪系统解决方案。
The task force is expected to discuss using low-power devices that could report a plane’s position to a satellite every few minutes but would pose little risk for fires.
根据预期，该工作组会讨论采用某些低功耗设备，以便每隔几分钟向卫星报告飞机的位置，但是又不会造成什么火灾风险。
“The industry is in absolute solidarity about putting in place global tracking,” Ms. Graham said. But the agency’s process for establishing aviation standard takes years. For the short term, all it can do is issue recommendations, which it hopes to receive from the task force by autumn.
“在部署全球追踪系统这件事上，整个行业的意见极为一致，”格雷厄姆说。但该机构制定航空标准的过程需要数年时间。在短期内，它唯一可以做的事情就是发布建议。上述工作组有望在今秋向民航组织提交建议。
When planes are over the open ocean, beyond the range of ground-based radar, the only tracking data available for many of them are the position reports radioed in periodically by pilots. Some planes also report their positions automatically over satellite links, but most do not.
当飞机在远离海岸的海洋上飞行，脱离任何地面雷达的侦测范围内时，对于很多飞机来说，唯一的追踪数据就是飞行员每隔一段时间，就用无线电发送的位置报告。有些飞机也可以通过卫星连接自动报告位置，但大多数不会。
The disappearance of Flight 370 is a particular challenge for the international aviation agency after the loss of Air France Flight 447, which plunged into the Atlantic in 2009 and took two years to locate. On Tuesday, the president of the agency, Olumuyiwa Benard Aliu, recalled that “its circumstances were considered almost too rare to ever happen again.
在法航447航班失事后又发生马航370航班失踪，对于国际民航组织来说是一个尤其巨大的挑战。法航447航班2009年坠入大西洋，人们花了两年时间才找到它。本周二，该机构主席奥卢穆伊瓦·贝纳德·阿留(Olumuyiwa Benard Aliu)回忆道，“人们当时以为447航班的情况非常罕见，几乎不可能再次发生。”
“Few industry communities would respond, as aviation is now, to something this rare and this unpredictable,” he said. “But for anyone familiar with our sector, it is perhaps not so surprising that we take the loss of every single aircraft and every single life as seriously as we do.”
“很少有哪个产业能够像航空业今天所做的这样，回应一起如此罕见如此不可预测的事件，”他说，“但是，我们对损失的每架飞机和每条生命都很重视，任何了解这个行业的人对此都不会感到奇怪。”
After a day and a half of meetings in Montreal, the organization announced on Tuesday that it would organize multinational drills to improve the ability to respond to crashes at sea.
在蒙特利尔开了一天半的会之后，该机构本周二宣布将举行多国演练，提高对海上坠机事件的反应能力。
Many airplanes already have equipment on board that could meet potential new requirements with only minor changes, officials said.
官员们表示，很多飞机已经配备了相应装置，只要略作改动就能满足可能出台的新要求。