The backdrop was a Parisian boulevard, and the catwalk was lined with fake trees in autumnal colors. But the electricity in the air was all Singapore.
新加坡——秀台背景是巴黎的林荫大道，两边排列着假树，树叶是秋季的颜色，但气氛完全是新加坡的。
FIDé Fashion Week 2013, presented by the Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands, displayed the work of 10 Asian and four French designers over an 11-day schedule in mid-October.
FIDé 2013时装周由滨海湾金沙酒店购物中心主办，在10月中旬的11天里展示了十个亚洲设计师和四个法国设计师的作品。
Frank Cintamani, chairman and founder of the three-year-old event, says he has created Asia’s only complete fashion event, with shows displaying men’s and women’s ready-to-wear as well as couture.
该活动今年是第三次举办，主席兼创始人弗兰克·辛塔玛尼(Frank Cintamani)说自己创立了亚洲唯一一个完整的时装周，其中的时装秀展示男装成衣、女装成衣以及高级定制服装。
And the week’s atmosphere is very different from that found at other fashion gatherings, Mr. Cintamani stressed. Elsewhere, he said, “You don’t get other designers sitting in the front row, supporting one another. You don’t get them going to the back room, helping them hem a dress two minutes before the show starts.”
辛塔玛尼强调说，这个时装周的气氛跟其他时装周很不相同。他说，在其他时装周上，“别的设计师不会坐在头排，互相支持对方。他们不会到后台去，在时装秀开始前两分钟帮忙给连衣裙缝边。”
According to Forbes.com, Singapore is now the world’s fastest growing wealth hub, and fashion is taking advantage. In addition to the FIDé week, the city-state also is host to the Audi Fashion Festival, which marked its fifth year in May, and Digital Fashion Week, a live-streamed event in early November that allows immediate online purchasing.
据福布斯网站说，新加坡现在是世界上增长最快的财富中心，时装界正在充分利用这个机会。除了FIDé时装周，新加坡还在今年5月举办了第五届奥迪时装节，并将在11月初举办数字时装周——它是一个在线直播活动，顾客可以在线即时购买。
The FIDé week offered five men’s and four women’s prêt-à-porter shows, among them a one-hour presentation by Guo Pei, one of China’s best-known designers.
FIDé时装周举办了五个男装成衣秀和四个女装成衣秀，其中有一个小时是中国最知名的设计师之一郭培的时装秀。
She said her “1002 Nights” collection was inspired by the tales in “The Arabian Nights” and a trip to Iran that left her in awe of its culture and history. One style was a short, sculptural purple dress with a green bodice, styled with sharp rings, necklaces and high platform shoes — representing, the designer said, the courage, personality and fearlessness of youth.
她说她的“1002夜”系列的灵感来源是《一千零一夜》中的故事以及她的一次伊朗之旅，她说那次旅行让她开始敬畏伊朗的文化和历史。其中一套衣服是一条雕塑般的紫色短连衣裙和绿色紧身上衣，搭配闪亮的戒指、项链和松糕鞋——她说这身衣服代表着年轻人的勇气、个性和无畏。
Even in rehearsal it was fascinating to watch the models pose on the 15-centimeter, or six-inch, platforms. Huang Chao Yan, a Chinese model, said: “It’s hard to balance. They are not a flat surface, and they move, so it’s difficult not to knock them together and hard to make them walk in a straight line.”
甚至在排练中，看着模特们穿着15厘米（六英寸）高的松糕鞋，人们也感到十分惊诧。中国模特黄超艳说：“很难保持平衡。它们不是平的，脚会往前滑，所以经常绊脚，很难走直线。”
Ms. Pei said the shoes reflected the shapes used in the Qing dynasty, which began in the mid-17th century. “The high heel in China is in the middle of the foot, not like on the heel in the Western way,” she explained.
郭培说那些鞋子的形状像清朝（始于17世纪中叶）的鞋子。“中国高跟鞋的跟在脚的中部，不像西方的高跟鞋，鞋跟在脚的后部，”她解释说。
A heavy kimono of rich greens, purples and golds was complimented by a geisha-style makeup designed by Romero Jennings, the makeup-artistry director at the MAC cosmetics company. It included long red eyelashes that he fashioned out of a metallic contact paper found in Korea.
厚重和服上鲜艳的绿色、紫色和金色与艺妓风格的妆容相映衬。妆容是由MAC化妆品公司的化妆艺术总监罗梅罗·詹宁斯(Romero Jennings)设计的。其中长长的红色睫毛是他用在韩国找到的金属艺术纸做成的。
Ms. Pei clearly loves her work, noting that “couture is very open. It touches people’s hearts. It’s an incredible art.”
郭培显然很喜欢自己的工作，她说“定制服装十分开放。它能触及人们的心灵。它是一种不可思议的艺术”。
The Beijing designer noted that when she began her label in the 1980s, “no one knew traditional Chinese embroidery.” Now, she said, she employs 450 artisans, she has trained herself because “memories and skills have gone.”
这位北京设计师说，她在20世纪80年代开创自己的品牌时，“没人知道中国传统刺绣”。她说现在她雇了450名技师，她自己也接受了培训，因为“记忆和技艺已经流失了”。
Michael Cinco, a Filipino designer in Dubai, said he was inspired by matadors and flamenco dancers, the Alhambra Palace in Granada and the Alba Flamenca restaurant in Edinburgh.
迪拜的菲律宾设计师迈克尔·辛科(Michael Cinco)说他的灵感来源是斗牛士、弗拉明戈舞者、格拉纳达的阿尔罕布拉宫以及爱丁堡的Alba Flamenca 餐馆。
“Most of my collection is in reds, shades of reds; layers and layers of lace; blacks and beige,” the designer said from behind his trademark hide-the-eyes shades. His outfits included a matador-style jacket with sequin tassels, a blood-red lace cape, and a long beige dress with a high neck and long sleeves that had lace, tulle and crystal detailing.
“我的系列中大部分是红色，各种各样的红色；一层层的蕾丝；各种黑色和米黄色，”这位设计师戴着他标志性的墨镜说。他设计的外套包括一件带有亮片流苏的斗牛士风格的上衣，一件血红色的蕾丝披肩，以及一条高领、长袖米色长连衣裙，上面有蕾丝、薄纱和水晶缀饰。
Mr. Cinco, whose clients include Lady Gaga and the Colombian actress Sofia Vergara, said he loved working with tulle “because I can put a different kind of provocation with a lot of details on it, and Swarovski crystals give drama, poetry and emotion to the wearer.”
辛科的客户包括Lady Gaga和哥伦比亚女演员索菲娅·维加拉(Sofia Vergara)。他说自己喜欢薄纱，“因为我能在上面加入很多细节，制造一种不同的挑衅感，施华洛世奇水晶能给穿着者带来戏剧性、诗意和激情。”
The Indonesian designer Sebastian Gunawan’s “Mod Muse” show rocked to a riotous soundtrack that included music by the Rolling Stones, the Clash and the Sex Pistols. “Music works with the clothes to create and follow what modern women are,” he said.
印尼设计师塞巴斯蒂安·古纳万(Sebastian Gunawan)的“摩登缪斯”(Mod Muse)秀的背景音乐十分喧嚣，包括滚石乐队、冲撞(Clash)乐队和性手枪(Sex Pistols)乐队的音乐。“音乐与服装结合，塑造和追随现代女性的形象，”他说。
But, the designer added, “part of my dream is seeing when women feel like princesses, too” — like any women would in his beaded and embroidered long gown of midnight blue raw silk.
不过，这位设计师补充说，“我也梦想着看到女人们感觉自己像公主。”任何穿着他的深蓝色珠饰刺绣生丝长礼服的女人都会有这种感觉吧。
Yumi Katsura, one of Japan’s most prolific designers, surprised the audience with a short puff dress — embellished with Swarovski crystals running down the shoulders, arms and legs — that, with a pull on a ribbon, cascaded into a long gown.
桂由美是日本最多产的设计师之一，她的一件蓬松短连衣裙让观众甚感意外——肩部、手臂和腿上镶着一长串施华洛世奇水晶——外面加上一条装饰缎带，垂落成一件长礼服。
And Lie Sang Bong, considered one of the most influential couturiers in South Korea, described his collection as “flowers blossoming explosively, like fireworks in a city.” He featured 1960s swirly print A-line dresses, mostly in black and white silk, which were set off by the models’ black nails.
李相奉被认为是韩国最有影响力的女装设计师之一。他说自己的系列“是盛放的花朵，就像城市里的烟花”。他的系列的特色是20世纪60年代的涡纹A字连衣裙，大多是用黑丝和白丝做成的，模特们的黑色指甲与之呼应。
Kenzo Takada, founder of the Kenzo fashion house, observed the Japanese designers: Junko Koshino’s dramatic capes, Yoshiki Hishinuma’s handpainted flora and fauna motifs on silks and chiffons, and Keita Maruyama’s ’50s skirts and a green and white dress with green bows racing down the back.
高田贤三时装公司的创始人高田贤三注意到了日本的一些设计师：小筱顺子夸张的披肩；菱沼良树在丝绸和雪纺绸上手绘的动植物浮雕；丸山敬太的50年代短裙和一件绿白连衣裙，绿色的饰片沿着背部蜿蜒而下。
The French Couture evening, a highlight of the event, featured the Paris designers Alexis Mabille and Julien Fournié and the French label On Aura Vu Tout.
本次活动的亮点之一是法国高级定制服装之夜，有来自巴黎的设计师艾历克西斯·马毕(Alexis Mabille)和朱利安·富尔尼(Julien Fournié)，以及法国品牌On Aura Vu Tout。
Mr. Fournié showed both his autumn 2013 couture line and a capsule collection, Julien Fournié for Love Bonito, created for the online store founded in Singapore by Rachel Lim and Viola Tan.
富尔尼展示了他的2013秋季定制系列和一个胶囊系列——Julien Fournié for Love Bonito，后者是为蕾切尔·林(Rachel Lim)和维奥拉·谭(Viola Tan)在新加坡创立的在线商店创作的。
His couture “First Chimera” collection was inspired by American comics and superheroines, with what the designer called “a mix and match between woman, lion and mermaid.”
他的高级定制系列“第一个喀迈拉”(First Chimera)受到了美国喜剧和超级英雄的启发，他说“它是女人、狮子和美人鱼的组合”。
Mr. Fournié said his obsession, along with the zippered hem, is “how to elongate the body as the famous artist Modigliani” did and noted that the muted chocolate palette was inspired by the colors of the painter Gustav Klimt. One style: 33 mink pelts stitched onto an organza ribbon by Rebecca Bradley, the London furrier, to create a mink dress.
富尔尼说他的痴迷，包括带拉链的裙边，在于“如何像著名艺术家莫迪利亚尼(Modigliani)那样把身体拉长”，还说柔和的巧克力色调是受到画家古斯塔夫·克里姆特(Gustav Klimt)的启发。其中一件衣服是让伦敦皮毛制作人丽贝卡·布兰得利(Rebecca Bradley)把33块貂皮缝到一条透明硬纱缎带上。
In contrast, the capsule collection lured the Love Bonito girl with a riot of color — purples, apple green, fuchsia and yellow — as well as Mr. Fournié’s funky zipper hems.
相比之下，胶囊系列用时髦的拉链裙边和鲜艳的色彩吸引Love Bonito的年轻女顾客们——紫色、苹果绿、紫红色和黄色。
At the conclusion, the designer and his Love Bonito collaborators danced down the catwalk hand-in-hand as glittering confetti rained down — something of a metaphor for the entire fashion week.
最后，这位设计师和他的Love Bonito合作者们手拉手、跳跃着走过秀台，闪亮的彩纸纷纷落下——正像这整个时装周给人的感觉。