Guo Meimei, whose name has come to be inextricably linked with the Chinese public’s distrust of official charities, was shown on CCTV state television on Sunday night confessing to having fabricated her association with the Red Cross Society of China purely out of vanity.
郭美美这个名字已经与中国公众对官方慈善机构的不信任结下了难解难分的关系。周日夜间，她出现在CCTV的电视画面上，承认自己因为虚荣捏造了与中国红十字会(Red Cross Society)的关系。
Dressed in orange prison garb, Ms. Guo, 23, who was detained along with eight other people in July for gambling on World Cup matches, appeared in her televised confession to be acquiescent and repentant. She spoke about having sex with men for large sums of money, fabricating reports about incurring a debt of 260 million renminbi, or about $42 million, while gambling in Macau, and operating an illegal gambling venue in Beijing.
23岁的郭美美穿着橙色囚衣，在电视节目上认错时显得颇有诚意且后悔不已。7月，她因为世界杯(World Cup)赌球而与其他八人一同被抓。她表示，她曾通过性交易获得大笔资金，还捏造了在澳门赌博时欠下2.6亿元人民币的事，并在北京非法运营一家赌场。
She also expressed remorse for having damaged the reputation of the Red Cross and denied having any association with the charity organization. “Because of my own vanity, I made a huge mistake,” she said in the video confession. “I would like to offer my deep apologies to the Red Cross,” she said tearfully as she bowed her head. “And even deeper apologies to the public and even deeper apologies to the people who have not been rescued.”
她表示，自己对损害红十字会名誉的做法感到懊悔，并否认与该慈善机构有任何联系。“因为自己的虚荣心，犯下了一个很大的错误，”她在电视上忏悔道。“跟红会深深地说一声真的很对不起，”她眼含热泪地低头鞠躬。“然后对老百姓也是更是对不起，对那些得不到救助的人就更是对不起，对不起。”
It was a far cry from some of the ostentatious photos Ms. Guo once posted on her Sina Weibo microblog account showing her posing with luxury cars and in first-class airline cabins.
这个画面与郭美美曾经在她的新浪微博上发布的招摇的照片形成了鲜明对比。在照片中，她在豪车旁和飞机头等舱里搔首弄姿。
In 2011, those notorious photos, together with the claim on her Weibo account that she was the “commercial general manager” at the Red Cross, prompted a storm of speculation about how Ms. Guo could have financed her lavish lifestyle, as well as suspicions about corruption at the Red Cross Society of China, which is a member of the International Federation of Red Cross Societies.
2011年，这些照片和她在微博账户中说她是红会“商务总经理”的说法使人怀疑，郭美美究竟怎么能过着如此奢侈的生活，以及中国红十字会是否存在腐败行为。中国红会是红十字国际委员会的成员之一。
Three years later, the Red Cross Society of China, a government organization that is one of the country’s largest charities, is still struggling to rehabilitate its reputation and regain public trust. The notion of philanthropy is relatively new in China, and in recent years, those willing to donate have indicated wariness about the lack of transparency in government charity organizations, with many choosing to give to private charity organizations instead.
三年过去了，中国红十字会依然无法恢复声誉，重获公众信任。该政府机构是中国最大的慈善机构。慈善事业的概念在中国还相对较新，最近几年，捐赠者对政府慈善机构缺乏透明度的情况保持警惕，很多人选择向私人慈善机构捐赠。
And with Ms. Guo’s confession featured prominently in Chinese media headlines, the Red Cross Society of China pleaded with the public on Monday on Weibo to “please forget Guo Meimei” and focus on helping earthquake relief efforts after a devastating 6.5-magnitude earthquake hit the southwestern province of Yunnan on Sunday, killing at least 398 people.
随着郭美美的忏悔占据了中国媒体的头条，中国红十字会周一在微博上请求公众“忘记郭美美”，专注于为抗震工作提供帮助。周日，中国西南部的云南省发生6.5级大地震，导致至少398人死亡。
“What could be more important, more heart-wrenching, more worthy of our minds and hearts?” the charity wrote on its official microblog. “So please, from now on, please forget her and focus your limited energy and resources on the disaster area.”
“难道还有什么比这件事更重要、更揪心、更值得我们全身心投入的吗？”红十字会在官方微博上写道。“所以，从这一刻起，请忘记她，把有限的精力和资源全部转向灾区。”