It is David Ebersman’s fault. There is just no way around it.
这是戴维·埃伯斯曼(David Ebersman)的错。无法避免。
Mr. Ebersman is Facebook’s well-liked, boyish-looking 41-year-old chief financial officer. He’s not as well known as Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, or Sheryl Sandberg, its chief operating officer and recently appointed director.
41岁的埃伯斯曼是Facebook的首席财务官，他受人喜爱，看起来像个大男孩。他不如Facebook的创立者和首席执行官马克·扎克伯格(Mark Zuckerberg)那样出名，也不如最近被任命为董事的首席运营官谢莉尔·桑德伯格(Sheryl Sandberg)那样为人熟知。
But when it came to Facebook’s catastrophe of an initial public offering — the stock reached a new low on Friday, closing at $18.06 — it was Mr. Ebersman, not Mr. Zuckerberg or Ms. Sandberg, who was ultimately the one pulling the strings.
但就Facebook灾难性的首次公开发行(I.P.O.)（该股在上周五跌至新低，收盘报18.06美元）而言，最终的操办者是埃伯斯曼，而不是扎克伯格或桑德伯格。
Now, three months after the offering, the company has lost more than $50 billion in market value. Let me say that again for emphasis: Facebook’s market value has dropped more than $50 billion in 90 days.
如今，在上市三个月后，该公司的市值缩水500多亿美元。让我再说一遍作为强调：Facebook的市值在90天内蒸发了500多亿美元。
To put that in perspective, that’s more market value than Lehman Brothers gave up in the entire year before it filed for bankruptcy.
换一个角度看，这比雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)在申请破产前一整年中失去的市值还要多。
A lot of ink has been spilled over Facebook’s I.P.O., with investors and pundits mostly pointing the finger at the Wall Street banks, particularly Morgan Stanley, which led the offering, and at Nasdaq, whose numerous computer glitches on Facebook’s first day of trading undermined confidence in the stock. They clearly deserve blame.
各方已在Facebook的I.P.O.话题上着墨甚多，大部分投资者和评论人士指责华尔街的银行，特别是主承销商摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)，以及纳斯达克(Nasdaq)，该交易所的在Facebook的第一个交易日出现大量电脑故障，削弱了人们对这支股票的信心。这些公司确实值得怪罪。
Mr. Ebersman’s name, however, is mentioned only occasionally, usually in passing and typically only among Silicon Valley’s cognoscenti.
然而，埃伯斯曼的名字只是偶尔才被提及，通常是顺便提及，而且一般只有硅谷的行家们才会提及。
And yet if there is one single individual more responsible than any other for the staggering mispricing of Facebook’s I.P.O., it is Mr. Ebersman. He signed off on the ever-increasing offer price, which ended up at $38 after the company had originally planned a price range of $29 to $34.
对于严重错估的Facebook发行价，如果说有某个人比其他人负有更多责任，那便是埃伯斯曼。他核准了节节上调的发行价。公司原本计划的发行价区间在29至34美元，但最终定在38美元。
He — almost alone — pushed to flood the market with 25 percent more shares than originally planned in the final days before the offering. And since then, as the point person for investors, he has done little to articulate how or why the company’s strategy will lift the stock price any time soon.
在上市前的最后几天里，他几乎一个人决定推动向市场多发行25%的股票。而且自上市以来，作为与投资者接触的关键人物，他几乎没有采取任何行动阐明Facebook的战略将如何（以及为何能够）在短期内提振股价。
At a time when investors are looking for some semblance of accountability on Wall Street and in corporate America, it is remarkable that nobody — no bankers, no one at Nasdaq, no one at Facebook — has been fired for botching the offering.
在投资者寻求从华尔街和美国大公司获得一定程度的问责制度的当今时代，值得注意的是没有人（包括银行家、纳斯达克员工、Facebook高管）因为搞砸了上市而遭到解雇。
Mr. Zuckerberg reportedly told his employees after the I.P.O., “So, you’ve heard we’re firing David?” But it was only a joke.
据报道，I.P.O.后扎克伯格曾对员工说，“嗯，你们听说我们要解雇戴维了吧？”但这只是一个玩笑。
Facebook’s falling stock price is not just a problem for investors; it is quickly creating real questions inside the company about its ability to retain and attract talented engineers, the lifeblood of any technology company.
Facebook下跌的股价不只是投资者的问题，它也迅速在公司内部产生了有关其能不能留住和吸引技术人才的切实的问题。人才是任何科技公司的命脉。
Employees who joined the company starting in 2010, for example, are now holding onto restricted shares that were granted at a higher price — $24.10 — than the current trading price. (It should be noted that these are restricted stock units, not underwater stock options, so they do still have real value, but not nearly what the employees had expected.)
例如，从2010年起加入公司的雇员现在持有限制股，这些股票的授予价格（24.10美元）高于目前的交易价格。（应当指出的是，这些是限制股，而不是行权价高于目前股价的股票期权，所以这些股票仍然拥有实际价值，只是和雇员原本的期望值相差甚远。）
Employees with some two billion shares will have the opportunity to begin selling them this fall, which is one reason Facebook shares have been depressed lately.
今年秋季，Facebook雇员将有机会开始卖出他们所持的大约20亿股票。这也是Facebook股价最近受压的原因之一。
A spokesman for Facebook, Elliot Schrage, declined to comment and would not make Mr. Ebersman available.
Facebook的发言人埃利奥特·施拉格(Elliot Schrage)拒绝评论，也拒绝让埃伯斯曼接受采访。
Mr. Ebersman appears to have badly misjudged the demand for Facebook’s I.P.O. He was aided by errant advice from a cadre of banking advisers, who all had an incentive to sell as many shares as possible at the highest price possible. Morgan Stanley liked $38 a share, JPMorgan Chase thought the shares could be sold for even more, while Goldman Sachs thought they should be sold for slightly less — but all of them quickly jumped on board when Mr. Ebersman made his final decision.
埃伯斯曼似乎严重错判了市场对Facebook I.P.O.的需求。他听从了一群银行顾问的错误建议，而这些人都有动机以尽可能高的价格出售尽可能多的股票。摩根士丹利倾向于每股38美元的发行价，摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)甚至认为可以定得更高，而高盛(Goldman Sachs)认为合适的发行价应当稍低一些。但是，当埃伯斯曼做出最终决定之后，他们都迅速同意了。
Determining the price of an I.P.O. is as much an art as a science. After a company’s roadshow presentations, investors indicate how many shares they plan to buy. They typically ask for more shares than they expect to receive, sometimes twice as many. But in the case of Facebook, investors, anticipating huge demand, put in requests for triple or quadruple the number of shares they expected to get.
I.P.O.定价是一项具有同等科学与艺术含量的工作。公司做完路演宣传之后，投资者报出他们计划购买的股票数量。一般他们认购的都比预期得到的数量多，有时达到两倍。但在Facebook的上市筹备过程中，预计将出现巨大需求的投资者，认购了三、四倍于他们预期得到数量的股票。
The bankers — and Mr. Ebersman — did not seem to appreciate what was happening. They seem to have believed their own hype and took those orders as real, giving them the misplaced confidence to push the I.P.O. to the highest possible price and issue more shares.
银行家与埃伯斯曼似乎没有理解当时发生的情况。他们似乎相信了自己的炒作，拿这些订单当真，结果错误地充满自信，将I.P.O.发行价推至尽可能高的价位，而且发行了更多的股票。
None of this is meant to suggest that Mr. Ebersman is dumb or unqualified. A graduate of Brown who was the chief financial officer of Genentech when he was just 34, Mr. Ebersman is bright, perhaps even brilliant. He was recruited to Facebook by Ms. Sandberg, a hire that was considered quite a coup at the time. He should clearly be given credit for negotiating favorable and extraordinarily large credit lines — $8 billion worth — with Wall Street banks, which could provide the company with an important lifeline should the economy and the company’s fortunes suffer.
这一切的原意都不是要暗示埃伯斯曼愚蠢或不合格。埃伯斯曼毕业于布朗大学(Brown)，34岁时就担任了Genetech的首席财务官。他很聪慧，甚至可能很杰出。他是桑德伯格招募到Facebook的，当时外界认为此举是一个妙招。他与华尔街银行谈判，得到了条款优惠、金额极其庞大的80亿美元信用额度，此举显然值得赞扬。如果经济形势或公司财务不佳，这些信用额度有望给公司一条重要的生命线。
The disclosures in the company’s I.P.O. prospectus — which were Mr. Ebersman’s responsibility — were, for the most part, pretty transparent, giving investors a good sense of the business, despite all the hype. And the I.P.O., for all its failures, filled Facebook’s coffers with some $10 billion.
Facebook招股说明书中披露的内容（这也是埃伯斯曼负责的）大部分透明度都相当高，让投资者对公司的业务有较好的了解——尽管有各种炒作。而且，尽管这宗I.P.O.有很多败笔，但它毕竟给Facebook的金库带来大约100亿美元。
Still, Mr. Ebersman has his work cut out for him as he tries to regain the trust of shareholders. He recently came to New York to meet with big investors, including hedge funds and institutional investors. Some invitations for meetings were oddly, and somewhat imperiously, sent out on Thursday night for meetings on Friday. Given that it was summer, some investors sent their junior analysts.
话说回来，埃伯斯曼在试图重获股东信任方面，还有很艰巨的工作要完成。最近他来到纽约与大投资者会面，包括对冲基金与机构投资者。奇怪（而且有些妄自尊大）的是，一些周五会议的邀请函周四晚间才发出。鉴于正值夏季，一些投资机构派了初级分析师与会。