BEIJING — Li Wen had heard about the turbo-strength flush power and the lily-scented soap. He knew about the stalls equipped with personal television screens and wireless Internet access, the soothing cello soundtrack and the windows lined with aloe vera plants.
北京——李文听说里面有百合花香的肥皂，冲厕水流强劲。他还知道每个隔间都配备了个人电视屏幕​​、无线网络，播放着舒缓的大提琴音乐，而且窗户上摆着一棵棵芦荟。
But Mr. Li, 39, a salesman, was skeptical when he set foot in the new public toilet at the corner of Fuqian Square in Fangshan, a district in southwest Beijing.
今年39岁的李文（音）是个推销员，他将信将疑地踏进了房山区府前广场的角落里新建的一座公共厕所。房山区位于北京西南部。
Modern technology has changed nearly every facet of life in China in recent years, turning backwoods precincts into bustling cities and bringing cell phones to more than a billion people. But public restrooms in many areas have remained largely unchanged, equipped with the same squat toilets and concrete pits that Chinese people have used for generations.
近年来，现代科技几乎改变了中国生活的方方面面；偏僻乡村变成繁华都市，超过十亿人都拥有了手机。但公共厕所基本没有什么变化，都是中国人多年在用的蹲厕和水泥修的坑。
As the government seeks to improve sanitation and reduce environmental waste across the country, it is planning a major overhaul of public toilets. Over the next three years, it will build or renovate 57,000 restrooms, including some that will resemble the high-tech facility in Fangshan, the first of its kind in China.
随着政府寻求改善卫生条件，减少全国各地的环境废物，它计划对公厕进行大修。在接下来的三年内，将新建或改建5.7万个厕所，包括修建一些像房山这样，在全国首开先河的高科技厕所。
The idea has won praise from many residents who have long deplored the squalid, crumbling condition of many restrooms. But it has also brought criticism from those who say high-end toilets are a waste of resources.
这个想法赢得了一致好评，众多居民早就在抱怨，很多厕所又脏又破。但也有批评说，修建高端厕所是浪费资源。
“It’s just a toilet,” said Lei Junying, 74, a retired farmer who lives in Fangshan. “Why do they have to make it such a nice one?”
“只是个厕所，”居住在房山的74岁退休农民雷俊英（音）说。 “建得这么好干什么？”
The restroom in Fangshan, which includes a separate room with vending machines and an A.T.M., as well as charging stations for electric cars, has quickly become a popular stop. Every hour, dozens of people visit, sometimes staying to watch a video montage promoting environmental protection.
房山的厕所已迅速成为一个热门地点。里面有一个带自动贩卖机和自动提款机的独立房间，还有电动汽车充电站。每小时有数十人参观，有时他们还会留下观看推广环保的剪辑视频。
“Even the flush sounds different,” said Zhou Wang, 25, a driver from Beijing. “Maybe it will help bring more foreign visitors. They think we’re backwards because of our toilets.”
“连冲水声都不一样，”来自北京的25岁司机周旺（音）说。“也许这将有助吸引更多外国游客。他们因为我们的厕所脏，就以为我们落后。”
The restroom in Fangshan is designed to conserve water by recycling wastewater from sinks to flush toilets. In addition to squat toilets, it offers several sitting toilets and dividers between the stalls, features that are not standard in Chinese public toilets.
房山的这座厕所从洗手池回收废水用来冲洗马桶，达到节约用水的目的。除了蹲厕还有座厕，而且还有隔板隔开，这在中国的公共厕所里并不是标配。
But it has maintained some Chinese characteristics, including a communal roll of toilet paper at the entrance and a separate bin for used toilet paper.
但它还是留有一些中国特色，包括放在入口处共用的卫生纸和专扔卫生纸的垃圾桶。
China has improved its toilets significantly in recent years, upgrading facilities for 593 million people between 1990 and 2010, according to the World Health Organization. But in poorer areas, it says, the challenges are acute, and 14 milion people still defecate in the open.
中国在最近几年显著改善了厕所。根据世界卫生组织统计，在1990年至2010年间，中国为5.93亿人口升级了卫生设施。但世卫组织表示，在贫困地区问题还是严重，仍有1400万人在户外排便。
Chinese officials have said they plan to build more toilets like the one in Fangshan in other suburban and rural areas. The aim is to build “beautiful cities and livable homelands,” according to a report by China.com.cn, a state-run news site.
中国官员表示，将在其他郊区和农村地区，建造更多像在房山这样的厕所。官方新闻网站中国网报道，这样做的目的是要建设“美丽城市、宜居家园”。
Lu Suisheng, 69, a former teacher from Inner Mongolia, visited the toilet several times during a recent trip to Fangshan to see his son. He said it would help encourage people to take better care of the environment in China.
来自内蒙古的69岁的教师陆穗生（音），在最近去房山看儿子的时候参观了几次厕所。他说，这将有助于鼓励人们保护中国的环境。
“Change is certainly needed,” he said. “In some Chinese toilets, people need to step on bricks to avoid stepping on dirty areas. How can you use toilets like that?”
“当然有需要改变，”他说。“在中国的一些厕所里，人要踩在砖块上才能避免踩到脏的地方。怎能这样上厕所啊？”
One of the janitors who helps maintain the toilet complex, Zhang Min, 35, said the new facility was a great improvement over the old one, which was known for its fetid smells in summer.
35岁的张敏（音）是其中一个清洁员，协助维护厕所设施。她说，这个新设施对旧厕所来说是个巨大的改进，旧厕所在夏天时出了名地臭气冲天。
“It’s much cleaner now,” she said. “There’s even a shower room and a changing room for us workers.”
“现在干净多了，”她说。“还有我们工作人员用的浴室和更衣室呢。”
She said most people had seemed to embrace the new technology, though a few complained that it was no longer possible to flush the toilet by kicking a handle. (A button must now be pressed.)
她说，大多数人似乎都能接受这项新技术，不过有少数人抱怨，不能再踩阀门来冲厕了。 （现在必须要按键冲厕。）
Some residents worry that the popularity of the new toilet and the presence of television screens and Wi-Fi will encourage guests to linger too long.
有居民担心，新的卫生间那么有名，加上里面设有电视屏幕和Wi-Fi，会吸引人们逗留太久。
On a recent day, Li Peiling, 39, a dental assistant, grew restless after waiting five minutes for a stall. She began to shout at the row of closed doors.
最近的一天，39岁的牙医助理李佩玲（音）在厕所外等了五分钟，这让她很不耐烦，于是她开始冲着那排关着的门大喊。
“Time’s up!” she said. “Some of us need to get to work!”
“到时间了！”她说。“我们有人要去上班的！”