Why do people line up to come to this country? Why do they build boats from milk cartons to sail here? Why do they trust our diplomats and soldiers in ways true of no other country? It’s because we are a beacon of opportunity and freedom, and also because these foreigners know in their bones that we do things differently from other big powers in history.
人们为什么要成群结队地涌入这个国家？他们为什么要划着以牛奶包装盒制成的小船来到这里？他们为什么要把其他国家不曾享有的信任给予我们的外交官和军人？因为我们是代表着机遇和自由的灯塔，还因为这些外国人深知，我们的所作所为一直都和其他大国不一样。
One of the things we did was elect a black man whose grandfather was a Muslim as our president — after being hit on Sept. 11, 2001, by Muslim extremists. And one of the things we do we did on Tuesday: We published what appears to be an unblinking examination and exposition of how we tortured prisoners and suspected terrorists after 9/11. I’m glad we published it.
我们做过的一件事情是，虽然在2001年9月11日遭到穆斯林极端分子的袭击，但后来还是把一个祖父是穆斯林的黑人选为我们的总统。周二，我们又做了另外一件不寻常的事情：公开了一份看来颇为直言不讳的报告，对我们在9·11事件之后如何虐待囚徒和恐怖分子嫌疑人进行了审视和展示。我很高兴我们把它公开了。
It may endanger captured Americans in the future. That is not to be taken lightly. But this act of self-examination is not only what keeps our society as a whole healthy, it’s what keeps us a model that others want to emulate, partner with and immigrate to — which is a different, but vital, source of our security as well.
它有可能危及未来被俘的美国人。对此不能掉以轻心。但这一自我审视之举，不但有助于保持我们这个社会的总体健康，还有助于保持我们的模范形象——美国一直是其他人想要模仿的榜样和想要合作的对象，以及他们心目中理想的移民目的地——这也是我们安全感的一个不寻常但却非常关键的源泉。
We’ve been here before. In wartime, civil liberties are often curtailed and abused, and then later restored. Lincoln suspended the writ of habeas corpus during the Civil War. During World War II, we imprisoned more than 127,000 American citizens solely because they were of Japanese ancestry. Fear does that.
我们从前也曾有过类似的失当之举。在战争时期，公民自由常常被剥夺、被侵犯，随后才会被恢复。内战期间，林肯曾下令暂停执行人身保护令。第二次世界大战期间，我们囚禁了12.7万名美国公民，只因为他们是日本人的后裔。驱使我们这样做的是恐惧。
Fear after 9/11 was equally corrosive. I have sympathy for people who were charged with defending the nation’s security after that surprise attack. It was impossible to know what was coming next — for which they would be held accountable. But it is hard to read the summaries of the Senate Intelligence Committee’s report and not conclude that some officials and the C.I.A. took the slack we cut them after 9/11 — motivated by the fear of another attack — and used it in ways, and long past the emergency moment, that not only involved torture, but abuse of institutions and lying to the public and other departments of government. If not exposed and checked, such actions could damage our society as much as a terrorist attack.
9·11事件带来的恐惧具有同样的破坏力。我对在这场出人意料的袭击发生后负责保卫国土安全的那些人颇感同情。他们根本不可能知道接下来会发生什么，但事情一旦发生，他们就要被问责。不过，读了参议院情报委员会(Senate Intelligence Committee)那份报告的摘要，很难不做出如下判断：9·11事件之后，由于担心再次发生恐怖袭击，我们放宽了要求，而一些官员以及中央情报局(CIA)利用了这种宽纵，在危机过后的很长一段时间里，不仅虐待在押人员，还滥用制度，并向公众以及其他政府部门撒谎。如果不被揭露和审查，这类行为给我们的社会带来的伤害可能不亚于一场恐怖袭击。
The Times had amazing coverage of this report, as did others. I came across an interactive feature on washingtonpost.com that distilled charges in the report in a way that turns your stomach.
《纽约时报》以及其他一些媒体围绕这份报告做了很好的报道。我在《华盛顿邮报》的网站上发现的一个互动式专题，把报告中的指控都提炼了出来，看得人直反胃。
It said: “Click a statement below for a summary of the findings,” offering a grim laundry list of links to the report’s torture conclusions: “not an effective means of acquiring intelligence,” “rested on inaccurate claims of their effectiveness,” “brutal and far worse than the C.I.A. represented,” “conditions of confinement for C.I.A. detainees were harsher,” “repeatedly provided inaccurate information,” “actively avoided or impeded congressional oversight,” “impeded effective White House oversight” ... “coercive interrogation techniques that had not been approved,” “rarely reprimanded or held personnel accountable,” “ignored numerous internal critiques, criticisms, and objections,” “inherently unsustainable,” “damaged the United States’ standing in the world.”
文中称，“请点击下列说明文字，查看相应的调查结果摘要”，并附上了一份可怖的详细清单，上面都是报告中与虐囚有关的结论：“并非一种获取情报的有效手段”；“以并不准确的关于其有效性的说法为基础”；“非常残酷，比CIA所描述的要糟糕得多”；“CIA在押人员的监禁条件比CIA所描述的还要艰苦”；“反复提供不准确的信息”；“设法躲避或者妨碍国会的监督”；“妨碍白宫的有效监督”……“使用尚未得到批准的刑讯逼供手段”；“很少训诫或约束责任人”；“无视内部大量的批评、指责和反对意见”；“从其本质上看是不可持续的”；“破坏了美国的国际形象”。
And there were more. The list told you that our post-9/11 fears led us to tolerate some terribly aberrant, dishonest and illegal behaviors that needed to be fully exposed, because big lies being tolerated lead to little lies being tolerated lead to institutions and trust being eroded from the inside.
还有很多。这份清单说明，9·11事件造成的恐惧促使我们去容忍一些极其异常、不诚实且非法的行为。我们需要彻底曝光此类行为，因为容忍弥天大谎会发展成容忍小谎，最终导致体制和信任遭到根本性的侵蚀。
I have no illusions: more terrorists are out there and they want to use the openness of our open society precisely to destroy it. And if there had been another 9/11 after the first 9/11, many Americans would have told the C.I.A. to do whatever it wants, civil liberties be damned. Our sentries who prevented further attacks were protecting our civil liberties as well.
我不抱任何幻想：现在有更多的恐怖主义者，他们想要利用我们的开放社会的开放性来摧毁它。如果9·11之后又发生了一起9·11事件，很多美国人会告诉CIA，他们可以做任何想做的事情，公民自由变得无关紧要。那些阻止进一步攻击的哨兵，也在捍卫我们的公民自由。
We want to keep attracting to our security services people who will have that sense of duty and vigilance. Our bargain is that we have to let them know we understand their challenge and will let them go to the edge of the law — and in rare, ticking time-bomb emergencies even over it, if justified — to protect us.
我们希望继续吸引具有责任感及警觉的人加入安保部门。我们的承诺是，我们得让他们知道，我们理解他们所面临的挑战，会允许他们游走在法律边缘——在极少的情况下，在炸弹即将引爆的紧急关头，如果有正当理由，甚至可以跨越法律边界——以保护我们。
But their bargain with us has to be that they will take the slack and trust we give them and not go over that edge out of habit, laziness, convenience, mendacity or misguided theories, and in the face of internal protests — all of which damage our country. The report is about how that bargain broke down, and it represents an important step in rebuilding it.
而他们的承诺应该是，他们会接受我们的宽容和信任，不会出于习惯、懒惰、方便、虚假或误导的理论，以及在遭到内部抗议时，跨越法律边界，因为这些做法会对我们的国家造成损害。这份报告展示了协议是如何瓦解的，而这是恢复协议的重要一步。