Students in this year’s high school musical at the School of the Future in Manhattan were milling around the auditorium before a performance the other day, when a senior hooked his phone to the sound system and played a new song he had found online. The beat was pure 1970s disco — smooth vocals, a funky syncopated guitar riff riding over a tight drum-and-bass groove.
那天，曼哈顿未来学校(School of the Future)中学表演音乐剧的学生们演出之前正在礼堂里闲逛，一个高年级学生把手机接上音响系统，放了一首网上找来的新歌。节奏纯粹是20世纪70年代的迪斯科风格——平稳的人声，放克(funky)风格的切分吉他乐段辅以紧凑的drum-and-bass律动。
The teenagers, who were born two decades after disco died, started moving to the music.
这些十几岁的孩子都是生于迪斯科死去20年后，现在他们开始被这种音乐打动了。
“Everyone resonated with it,” recalled Sora Suzuki, 16. “You just kind of get absorbed into it. It’s got this old feel about it.”
“所有人都跟着哼唱，”16岁的苏拉·铃木(Sora Suzuki)回忆，“我们有点被它迷住了，它有那种古老的感觉。”
The song was Daft Punk’s “Get Lucky,” a nod to disco from a French electronic duo known for kitschy robot costumes, machinelike vocals and computer-generated beats. Since it was released on April 19, the song has rapidly ascended to No. 4 on the Billboard singles chart, making it an early candidate to become the song of the summer.
这首歌就是“蠢朋克”(Daft Punk)的《走运》(Get Lucky)，这支法国电子二人组以媚俗的机器人服饰、机械的嗓音和计算机合成的节拍著称。这首歌是他们向迪斯科音乐的致意，4月19日发行后迅速攀升到公告牌单曲榜第4位，成为夏季大热歌曲的早期候选人。
It is the first Top 10 pop hit for the musicians, Thomas Bangalter and Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo, and it has thrust their sci-fi brand of dance music upon a wider audience, even propelling their fourth studio album, “Random Access Memories” (Daft Life/Columbia) to No. 1 on the Billboard album chart. The album, Daft Punk’s first since 2010, has sold 339,000 copies since it was released last week, putting the group on par with more mainstream acts like Pink and Dave Matthews.
它是托马斯·邦加尔塔(Thomas Bangalter)和古伊-曼纽·德·奥曼-克里斯托(Guy-Manuel de Homem-Christo)这两位音乐家登上流行歌曲前10名榜单的第一首歌，使得他们科幻风格的舞曲音乐走向了更广泛的听众，甚至把他们的第四张录音室专辑《随机存储器》(Random Access Memories, Daft Life/Columbia)推上了“公告牌”专辑排行榜第一的宝座。它是“蠢朋克”自2010年以来的第一张专辑，自上周发行以来卖出了33.9万张，令乐队得以同“粉红”(Pink)和戴夫·马修斯(Dave Matthews)等更加主流的艺人们分庭抗礼。
Radio programmers say that “Get Lucky” reinforces a recent Top 40 trend of hit songs that mine the sounds of 1970s disco and R&B, among them Justin Timberlake’s “Suit & Tie” and Robin Thicke’s “Blurred Lines.”
广播节目中说《走运》巩固了近期前40名金曲排行榜中发掘70年代迪斯科和R&B音乐的趋势——同时上榜的这类歌曲还有贾斯汀·汀布莱克(Justin Timberlake)的《西装领带》(Suit & Tie)以及罗宾·西克(Robin Thicke)的《模糊的界限》(Blurred Lines)等歌曲。
What is more, the song is getting airplay and generating requests from listeners across several radio formats — Top 40, hip-hop, alternative, even Spanish-language pop stations — with its timeless, rapturous message about finding a soul mate (or at least a bedmate) at a dance party.
这首歌在电台中不断播放，被不同类型音乐节目的听众们反复点播——排行榜前40名金曲节目、hip-hop音乐节目、另类音乐节目，甚至西班牙语流行音乐节目里都有人点播这首歌——它带来一个永恒的、热情的主题：要在舞会上寻觅灵魂伴侣（至少也要找个床伴）。
Dylan Sprague, who programs Clear Channel stations in Boston, said he has put the song into rotation on three stations devoted to electronic dance music, hip-hop and Top 40 and that it has become one of the most requested songs on all three formats.
波士顿清晰频道(Clear Channel)电台的节目主持人迪伦·斯普拉格(Dylan Sprague)说，他在自己主持的三档节目（电子舞曲音乐、hip-hop音乐、排行榜前40名金曲）里都循环播放这首歌，结果它在三个节目里都成了点播次数最多的歌之一。
“Just anecdotally, I feel like it’s everybody’s favorite song, no matter who the person is demographically,” he said. “It’s got great lyrics. It’s easy to digest, easy to sing along with. It’s got a nostalgic vibe and yet it still sounds current and hip, a little disco-y and dance-y. It just works across multiple formats.”
“这只是举个例子，我觉得它已经成了所有人最喜欢的歌，不管是什么样的人，”他说，“歌词很棒，很容易理解，也很容易跟着唱。它有种怀旧的氛围，但听起来仍然流行时尚，有点迪斯科，有点舞曲风。在许多音乐节目里都能畅行无阻。”
So how does a disco song become a hit with the millennial generation? Radio programmers note the pop charts list more dance-oriented songs than at any point since the late 1970s, a consequence of the surging popularity of electronic dance music. In that world, Daft Punk has long had a cult following and is viewed as the progenitor of electronic acts like Skrillex and Deadmau5. Programmers also say that vocals from Pharrell Williams, the singer and songwriter known for his work with N.E.R.D. and the Neptunes, also help the track resonate with young urban and pop audiences.
那么，一首迪斯科歌曲是怎样成了新千年一代的金曲呢？广播电台的节目编排者们发现，自20世纪70年代末以来，流行榜单上从未像如今这样充斥着舞曲，这是电子舞曲音乐日益兴盛所导致的。在那个舞曲世界里，“蠢朋克”早已拥有大批狂热拥趸，被视为史奇雷克斯(Skrillex)与Deadmau5之类电子乐艺人的先驱。节目编排者们还说，法雷尔·威廉姆斯(Pharrell Williams)的人声也让这首歌和年轻都市听众与流行歌曲听众有了更多共鸣，威廉姆斯是一位创作歌手，以同“N.E.R.D.”和“海王星”(Neptunes)的合作闻名。
“It has a good dance vibe to it,” said Aaron Zytle, program director for KRXP, an alternative station in Colorado Springs. “And it’s got Pharrell on it, which gives it credibility for Top 40 and urban stations.”
 “这首歌很有舞蹈气氛，”科罗拉多斯普林斯市另类音乐台KRXP的节目编导亚伦·吉托(Aaron Zytle)说，“法雷尔在里面的演唱，让它更有把握占领前40名金曲和都市音乐节目。”
“Get Lucky” is Daft Punk’s highest charting single ever on Billboard’s Hot 100; its only other contenders were “Around the World” in 1997 and “One More Time” in 2000, neither of which ever reached the Top 40, though they did well on dance charts.
《走运》是“蠢朋克”迄今在公告牌100大金曲排行榜上位置最高的单曲；此外乐队1997年的《全世界》(Around the World)和2000年的《再一次》(One More Time)也曾登上该榜，但都没能进入前40名，尽管它们在舞曲榜上排名不低。
An all-star lineup of musicians made a difference. Nile Rodgers, the guitarist and songwriter for Chic, wrote the underlying riff and plays guitar. Mr. Williams sang the lead and wrote the lyrics. The rhythm section consists of Omar Hakim, an acclaimed jazz drummer who has worked with Madonna and Sting, and the bassist Nathan East, who has recorded with Stevie Wonder, Eric Clapton and Phil Collins.
这首歌的全明星阵容也发挥了重要作用。尼尔·罗杰斯(Nile Rodgers)是“时髦”(Chic)乐队的吉他手和歌曲作者，他为《走运》写了基础乐段，并担任吉他手。威廉姆斯担任主唱，歌词也是他写的。节奏组包括受欢迎的鼓手奥玛·哈基姆(Omar Hakim)，他曾与麦当娜(Madonna)和斯汀(Sting)合作；还有曾为史蒂夫·旺德(Stevie Wonder)、埃里克·克莱普顿(Eric Clapton)和菲尔·科林斯(Phil Collins)担任过录音乐手的贝斯手内森·伊斯特(Nathan East)。
Mr. Bangalter and Mr. de Homem-Christo, who declined to be interviewed for this article, have told reporters that they started working on the album in 2008. The aim was to depart from their usual way of operating and recapture what they call the “golden age” of recording in the late 1970s. They abandoned playing the parts themselves and relying heavily on drum machines, computerized loops and samples of disco and rock records. Instead they recruited master studio musicians with the technique to play a syncopated groove in near-perfect time for five or 10 minutes.
邦加尔塔和德·奥曼-克里斯托二位谢绝为本文接受采访，但他们曾在其他采访中说过，他们从2008年就开始筹备这张专辑。目标是改变他们惯常的操作方式，重温被他们称为“黄金时代”的70年代录音方式。他们放弃了自己演奏，主要依靠鼓机、电脑制作的loop，乃至从迪斯科与摇滚专辑中采样。还请来了擅长在5分钟到10分钟这个完美时间内演奏切分律动的录音室乐手。
“Get Lucky” took more than 18 months to write. The duo came up with the chord progression and organ part early on, then asked Mr. Hakim and Mr. East to record a rhythm track. Mr. Rodgers laid down the guitar tracks at the Electric Lady Studios in Manhattan, where he recorded his first Chic single in the 1970s. He jammed over the tracks, playing his trademark chord inversions and chicken-scratch rhythms until the riff emerged.
《走运》的创作花了18个月以上的时间。两人一开始碰巧想出一个和弦进程以及它的键盘部分，之后请哈基姆和伊斯特录下了节奏音轨。罗杰斯在曼哈顿的电子女士录音棚(Electric Lady Studios)录了吉他音轨，70年代他就是在那里录制了“时髦”的第一首单曲。他在几个音轨里即兴演奏，弹了他标志性的转位和弦，以及“鸡爪刮碟”(chicken-scratch)节奏，最后的结果就是出现在录音中的乐段。
Months later, Mr. Williams traveled to Paris and composed the melody line and lyrics in the duo’s studio there. “It was so spontaneous and instant,” Mr. de Homem-Christo told the BBC. “It was just a fast sparkle of magic, and he channeled to some of the best R&B he had been listening to.”
几个月后，威廉姆斯去了巴黎，在“蠢朋克”的录音室里写下了人声旋律和歌词。“完全是自发的，很快就完成了，” 德·奥曼-克里斯托在接受BBC采访时说，“就像魔法的火花一样迅速，他还听了几个他一直在听的最好的R&B音乐频道。”
Mr. Williams said in a later online interview he had been so jet-lagged that he did not remember the session well.
后来威廉姆斯在一次网上采访中说，自己当时在倒时差，根本不记得那次录音到底是怎么回事了。
The marketing for the song was old-school as well. Columbia Records avoided waging a modern Internet campaign, opting instead for billboards with just the band’s robot-helmet logo in Los Angeles and other cities. Then came 15-second spots on “Saturday Night Live” with snippets of “Get Lucky” to whet the public’s appetite, and finally a videotaped promotion at the Coachella music festival in which Mr. Rodgers and Mr. Williams appeared with Daft Punk.
这首歌的市场推广方式也很老派。哥伦比亚唱片公司没有发动现代互联网攻势，而是在洛杉矶和其他城市的户外广告牌上打出了这个乐队的机器人头盔标识；之后又在“周六夜现场”节目里播放了15秒广告——《走运》的15秒片段，吊起了公众的胃口；最后是在Coachella音乐节上播放了罗杰斯、威廉姆斯与“蠢朋克”共同亮相的录像广告。
“We were trying to reveal as little as possible,” said Scott Greer, Columbia’s vice president for marketing. “The thing that has enhanced the brand is the scarcity, the absence of any information, and then supplying it here and there.”
“我们想尽可能地少曝光，”哥伦比亚市场部副总裁斯科特·格里尔(Scott Greer)说，“重点是，要强调乐队的信息十分稀缺，不可多得，然后再这里一点，那里一点，把信息提供出来。”
Many teenagers only know Daft Punk through “Tron,” the duo’s 2010 album, or through Kanye West, who sampled one of its earlier songs for his 2006 hit “Stronger.” But what many seem to be responding to in “Get Lucky” is what lies at the heart of many disco hits: an upbeat message and danceable beat.
许多十几岁的孩子只是通过“蠢朋克”2010年的专辑《创战纪》(Tron)才了解他们，或者是通过肯伊·韦斯特(Kanye West)——2006年，他在自己的金曲《更强》(Stronger)里采样了“蠢朋克”的一首早期歌曲。但很多孩子对《走运》的反响似乎正是关乎迪斯科金曲的核心：一个积极乐观的消息与可以随之起舞的节拍。
Theoren Hyland, 15, a self-described science “nerd” at the School of the Future who likes rock bands like Coldplay, said he only became interested in Daft Punk this year, when friends showed him a YouTube video with sci-fi anime characters for the song ”One More Time.” Then he heard “Get Lucky” at a rehearsal for the “Guys and Dolls” production at school and became a convert.
15岁的席奥伦·希兰德(Theoren Hyland)就读于未来学校，他说自己是个“技术宅”，喜欢“酷玩”(Coldplay)之类乐队，是从今年才开始对“蠢朋克”感兴趣，当时朋友们给他看了YouTube上《再一次》的视频，里面有许多科幻动画人物。后来他又在学校的《男孩与玩偶》戏剧彩排时听了《走运》，此后就皈依“蠢朋克”门下。
“It’s catchy,” he said. “It has a good vibe. But it’s also the theme, what it’s about: partying and celebration.”
“它很迷人，”他说，“有种美妙的氛围。但它同时也是主题，这个主题就是派对和庆典。”