WASHINGTON — Even before Ronald Reagan became the oldest elected president, his mental state was a political issue. His adversaries often suggested his penchant for contradictory statements, forgetting names and seeming absent-mindedness could be linked to dementia.
华盛顿——早在罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)成为美国年纪最大的当选总统之前，他的精神状态就已经是一个政治问题了。对手们常指称他在发言中前后矛盾、忘记人名以及心不在焉的状态可能与痴呆症有关。
In 1980, Mr. Reagan told me that he would resign the presidency if White House doctors found him mentally unfit. Years later, those doctors and key aides told me they had not detected any changes in his mental abilities while in office.
里根先生曾在1980年对我说，如果白宫的医生认为他的精神状态不能胜任总统一职，那么他就将辞职。多年以后，那些医生及其重要助手告诉我，他们未发现里根先生在任期间的脑力有任何变化。
Now a clever new analysis has found that during his two terms in office, subtle changes in Mr. Reagan’s speaking patterns linked to the onset of dementia were apparent years before doctors diagnosed his Alzheimer’s disease in 1994.
现在，一项巧妙的新分析发现，在里根先生的两届任期内，亦即早在1994年医生诊断出他患有阿尔茨海默氏症的多年之前，他的言语模式就明显发生了微妙的变化，而这种变化与痴呆症的发病有关。
The findings, published in The Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease by researchers at Arizona State University, do not prove that Mr. Reagan exhibited signs of dementia that would have adversely affected his judgment and ability to make decisions in office.
该研究由亚利桑那州立大学(Arizona State University)的研究人员完成，并发表在《阿尔茨海默氏症杂志》(The Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease)上。不过，它并不能证明，里根先生曾出现过影响其判断力或公务决策能力的痴呆症体征。
But the research does suggest that alterations in speech one day might be used to predict development of Alzheimer’s and other neurological conditions years before symptoms are clinically perceptible.
但研究提出，有朝一日将可利用言语的改变，在阿尔茨海默氏症和其他神经系统疾病患者出现临床上可察觉的症状之前，就预测出这些疾病的发生和发展。
Detection of dementia at the earliest stages has become a high priority. Many experts now believe that yet-to-be-developed treatments are likely to be effective at preventing or slowing progression of dementia only if it is found before it significantly damages the brain.
尽可能早地检出痴呆症已成为受到优先考虑的事项。当今的许多专家认为，只有在痴呆症对脑部造成明显损害之前就及早发现，尚待研发的治疗手段才可能有效地预防或延缓病程。
The “highly innovative” methods used by the researchers may eventually help “to further clarify the extent to which spoken-word changes are associated with normal aging or predictive of subsequent progression to the clinical stages of Alzheimer’s disease,” said Dr. Eric Reiman, the director of the Banner Alzheimer’s Institute in Phoenix, who was not involved in the new study.
班纳阿尔茨海默氏症研究所（Banner Alzheimer’s Institute，位于美国凤凰城）的主任埃里克·雷曼(Eric Reiman)博士并未参与该新研究，但他称赞这些研究人员所采用的方法“极富创意”，它终将有助于“进一步明确口语的改变在何等程度上与正常衰老相关，以及它可以在何等程度上预测患者的阿尔茨海默氏症后来将进展到怎样的临床分期”。
Visar Berisha and Julie Liss, professors of speech and hearing science at the university, compared transcripts of all 46 news conferences that Mr. Reagan held to the 101 sessions President George H. W. Bush held in his term.
亚利桑那州立大学的言语及听力科学教授维萨·贝里沙(Visar Berisha)和朱莉·利斯(Julie Liss)比较了里根先生在任期间举办的全部46场新闻发布会与乔治·W·布什(George W. Bush)总统主持的101场会议的发言稿。
The researchers assessed changes in the presidents’ speech patterns with a new algorithm based on a technique used by others to analyze changes in writing by novelists.
研究人员利用一项基于别人用来分析小说家文风变化的技术建立的新算法，评估了总统发言模式的改变。
In an interview, Dr. Berisha said he did not set out to study Mr. Reagan, but found he was the only individual with progressive dementia for whom long-term transcript information is publicly available. He chose Mr. Bush because he was most comparable in age to Mr. Reagan at the start of their presidencies, and both men served during roughly the same decade.
贝里沙博士在一次采访中说，他倒也没准备刻意去探究里根先生，只是里根先生是他所能找到的唯一一位可以公开获取其长期发言记录的进行性痴呆症患者。他之所以选择布什先生作为另一个研究对象，是因为他在就任总统时的年龄与里根先生最为接近，且两人在任的时代也大致相近。
Age and era are important issues for comparison because they can influence language measures. Mr. Reagan was 69 when he became president, and Mr. Bush was 64. Mr. Reagan died at 93 in 2004.
要进行对比，年龄和时代非常重要，因为它们会影响语言的表达。里根先生就任总统时69岁，而布什先生是64岁。里根先生在2004年去世，享年93岁。
The researchers found no changes in the speaking patterns of Mr. Bush, who is not known to have developed Alzheimer’s. But in Mr. Reagan’s speech, two measures — use of repetitive words, and substituting nonspecific terms like “thing” for specific nouns — increased toward the end of Mr. Reagan’s presidency, compared with its start. A third measure, his use of unique words, declined.
大家都知道布什先生未患阿尔茨海默氏症，研究人员也未在他的说话方式中发现任何变化。但对于里根先生，与任职初期相比，在总统任期快要结束时他的言语中有两项指标——使用重复的词语，以及使用“东西”等非特异性术语来替代具体的名词——有所增加。而第三项指标——特有语汇的使用——则有所减少。
The researchers’ methodology was not designed to determine whether the changes were present in Mr. Reagan’s rare early news conferences, Dr. Berisha said. Other factors — like a deliberate decision to reduce the complexity of his speaking style, or the injury, surgery and anesthesia from the assassination attempt made on him in 1981 — could account for the language changes they found, Dr. Berisha said.
研究人员采用的该方法并非设计用于判断里根先生不多见的早期新闻发布会发言稿中是否有什么变化，贝里沙博士说。而且，其他因素——如在深思熟虑后决定降低自己说话风格的复杂性，因1981年的暗杀事件受伤、并接受麻醉和手术等，也可以解释他们发现的语言改变。
In 1984, Mr. Reagan’s poor performance in his first presidential debate with Vice President Walter Mondale renewed questions about his mental capacity. A study published in 1988 suggested that Mr. Reagan had some cognitive impairment during his debates with President Jimmy Carter and Mr. Mondale, but the authors said that their findings were insufficient to conclude that the changes affected Mr. Reagan’s policy judgments and ability to make decisions.
1984年，里根先生在与副总统沃尔特·蒙代尔(Walter Mondale)的首场总统竞选辩论中的糟糕表现令人再次质疑其脑力功能。1988年发表的一项研究表明，在与吉米·卡特(Jimmy Carter)总统和蒙代尔先生辩论期间，里根先生存在一定的认知功能障碍，但作者表示，他们的研究结果并不足以断定这些改变影响了里根先生的政策判断力和决策能力。
The new research is part of a larger effort to develop objective tests that would serve as bellwethers for Alzheimer’s and other neurological diseases, Dr. Berisha said.
贝里沙博士说，这项新研究是一项规模更大的研究工作的一部分，其目的在于开发客观的测试来监测阿尔茨海默氏症和其他神经系统疾病的先兆。
While the new study is “very clever,” said Dr. Richard Caselli, an Alzheimer’s expert at the Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale, Ariz., further research involving larger numbers of individuals is necessary to prove the methods actually predict dementia.
梅奥诊所（Mayo Clinic，位于斯科茨代尔）的阿尔茨海默氏症专家理查德·卡塞利(Richard Caselli)博士则指出，虽然该新研究“非常巧妙”，但仍需进行涉及更多受试者的进一步研究，才能证明该方法确实可以预测痴呆症。
Imperceptible cognitive decline often predates by many years the precipitous downturn that occurs once compensatory strategies, like relying on well-rehearsed phrases and simple words, fail and an individual can no longer mask his cognitive deficit.
早在患者的认知功能急剧衰退的多年之前，其认知功能往往就已经在不知不觉地衰退了。只是后来曾经的补偿性策略（如依赖于反复排练措辞和使用简单的单词）不再奏效，患者才再也无法掩饰自己的认知缺陷。
Dr. Berisha wanted to determine whether natural language processing and algorithms could be used to detect any such changes in news conferences, because spontaneous responses to questions require greater cognitive effort than a rehearsed speech does.
贝里沙博士希望确定能否使用自然语言处理方式和算法来检测新闻发布会中的此类变化，因为与经过演练的发言相比，对问题做出自发应答需要更多的认知努力。
Sharing thoughts and ideas through spoken communication is a fragile process. Even the simplest verbal response requires a complex sequence of events. The brain must recall the words to best convey a message, put them in proper sequence, and then signal the muscles required to produce speech.
通过口语交流来分享思想和理念是一个相当精巧的过程。即使最简单的语言应答也需要完成一系列复杂的事件。大脑须回忆起最能传达信息的词语，将它们以适当的顺序排列好，然后向说话所需的肌肉发信号。
The slightest damage to brain areas that orchestrate these events can produce speech difficulties.
协调上述事件的脑区哪怕受到最轻微的损伤，也可能造成言语障碍。
Earlier studies have shown that certain linguistic biomarkers change with disease progression. Spoken vocabulary size declines, for instance, and use of indefinite nouns increases.
此前已有研究表明，某些语言生物标志物会随着疾病的进展而变化，例如口语词汇量的下降以及对不定名词的使用增加等。
Studies of a small group of American nuns have shown a strong relationship between the complexity of the language the women used in handwritten autobiographical essays when they were young and their cognitive health many decades later.
关于一小群美国修女的研究显示，女性在年轻时写作自传体文章时使用语言的复杂程度与其几十年之后的认知健康密切相关。
Canadian researchers have reported that analyses of syntax in novels by Iris Murdoch and Agatha Christie indicated early signs of dementia (Ms. Murdoch died of Alzheimer’s; Ms. Christie is suspected to have had it.) The same analysis applied to the healthy P. D. James, who died at 94 last year, did not find signs of dementia.
加拿大的研究人员也报告称，在分析了艾瑞斯·梅铎(Iris Murdoch)和阿加莎·克里斯蒂(Agatha Christie)小说中的语法后，他们发现了痴呆症的早期征兆（梅铎女士因阿尔茨海默氏症去世；克里斯蒂女士疑似患有该病）。他们对身体健康，去年以94岁高龄去世的P·D·詹姆斯(P. D. James)的作品进行了相同的分析，却未发现痴呆症的迹象。
Dr. Berisha said his team intended to conduct similar analyses of transcripts of other presidents, as well as news conference transcripts of National Football League players known to have sustained head trauma.
贝里沙博士说，他的团队打算对其他总统的发言稿，以及已知曾遭受头部创伤的美国国家橄榄球联盟(National Football League)球员的新闻发布会发言稿进行类似的分析。
He and his team also hope to devise a study in which the conversations between physicians and patients are recorded at each visit and later analyzed to determine if speech and language changes can predict the appearance of dementia.
他和他的团队也希望能开展一项研究，录下患者每次就诊时与医生的谈话并在日后进行分析，以确定言语和语言的变化能否预测痴呆症。
If the day comes when such tests to detect the earliest stages of Alzheimer’s and other neurological diseases become widely established, a question will arise about their use to screen candidates for the White House and other public offices.
如果这种可以在早期检出阿尔茨海默氏症和其他神经系统疾病的测试终有一天得到了广泛确立和普及，那么，一个新的问题将摆在人们面前：可否使用它们来对白宫和其他公职的候选人进行筛查？