The cinematic equivalent of attack by kaleidoscope, “Rio 2” sucks you in and whirls you around before spitting you out, exhausted. A tropical tornado of cadmium and cobalt, magenta and marigold, Carlos Saldanha’s frantic follow-up to his well-received 2011 animated feature, “Rio,” ups the ante on sound and movement but pays scant attention to story. Prioritizing a sellable soundtrack — and a veiled plug for this year’s World Cup soccer tournament — over an original and engaging narrative might not have been the intent, but it sure feels that way.
《里约大冒险2》(Rio 2)像个万花筒，把你吸进去，不停旋转，直到你筋疲力竭才把你吐出来。这部疯狂的电影是卡洛斯·沙尔丹哈(Carlos Saldanha)2011年大受欢迎的动画影片《里约大冒险》(Rio)的续集，它像是用橙黄和钴蓝、品红和金黄构成的热带风暴，在音响和动作方面更上一层楼，但是对故事情节的关注还不够。制作人优先考虑的是推出好卖的原声专辑，还要与今年的世界杯足球赛隐约扯上联系；而不是新颖、有趣的故事。这也许不是他们的初衷，但的确给人这种感觉。
The Brazilian Ministry of Tourism, at least, should be pleased. With one eye on the soccer and the other on the 2016 Summer Olympics, Rio de Janeiro’s image watchdogs must welcome a counterweight to the slum-centered aesthetic of movies like “Elite Squad” and “City of God.” And while the “Rio” doubleheader may not deflect the professed concern over visitor safety that has prompted officials to begin clearing out those slums, the franchise is a gift of samba-and-Carnival cheer that Mr. Saldanha lards with all the fondness of a native son.
至少巴西旅游局应该感到高兴。里约热内卢即将举办世界杯比赛和2016年夏季奥运会，所以它的形象维护者应该欢迎这样一部电影，来抵消《精英部队》(Elite Squad)和《上帝之城》(City of God)等影片所展现的以贫民窟为主的城市形象。虽然这两部《里约大冒险》没有否认官方承认的对游客安全的担忧——这种担忧已促使官员们开始清理那些贫民窟——但是它们更像一份关于桑巴舞和狂欢节的礼物，沙尔丹哈以他的赤子之爱对这座城市加以润饰。
Rejoining Blu and Jewel (still voiced by Jesse Eisenberg and Anne Hathaway), the mated pair of blue macaws from the previous feature, we follow them from domestic bliss in Rio to the lush perils of the Amazon rain forest. Though delivered by a mostly unremarkable chorus of sidekicks, the humor refuses the crutch of vulgarity in service to an insipid, eco-friendly plot and a bland, family-centered message about finding your tribe and protecting your turf. The colors are insane, the 3-D animation is impressive, and the additions of Bruno Mars (as Blu’s romantic rival) and Kristin Chenoweth (as a love-struck frog) expand the Latin-flavored musical palette to include pop crooning and Broadway belting.
我们又见到了上部电影中情投意合的蓝色金刚鹦鹉布鲁（Blu，仍由杰西·艾森贝格[Jesse Eisenberg]配音）和朱厄尔（Jewel，仍由安妮·海瑟薇[Anne Hathaway]配音），跟随它们从里约热内卢的欢乐家庭来到茂盛的亚马逊热带雨林的险境之中。片中的幽默是通过大部分时候并不起眼的配角合唱来表现的，但它拒绝粗俗；配合了该片主张环保的平淡情节，以及以家庭为中心的平庸寓意：找到你的部落，保护你的领地。影片色彩鲜艳，3D动画效果让人印象深刻，新增的布鲁诺·马尔斯（Bruno Mars，他给布鲁的情敌配音）和克里斯汀·肯诺恩斯（Kristin Chenoweth，她给一只痴情的青蛙配音）把流行歌曲吟唱和百老汇高歌增加到该片的拉丁风格配乐中来。
Ms. Chenoweth is the film’s secret weapon, her character’s interspecies crush on an addled cockatoo (the perfect Jemaine Clement) yielding Christine-and-the-Phantom moments of forbidden-love lunacy. But these pops of avant-garde flavor — suggesting that at least one of the film’s four credited writers might be a keeper — are smothered by the retro rhythms of comic formula and the relentless beats of choreographed stimulation that characterize too many American-made children’s movies.
肯诺恩斯是这部电影的秘密武器，她配音的那个角色对反派凤头鹦鹉（由杰梅奈·克莱门特[Jemaine Clement]完美配音）产生了跨种族的爱慕，出现了克里斯汀(Christine)和幽灵（Phantom，《歌剧魅影》中的两位主人公——译注）之间疯狂的禁忌之恋。但是这些前卫风格的流行音乐——这表明该片的四位编剧中至少有一位尚有可取之处——被动画电影中常见的复古节奏，以及无休无止、刻意让人兴奋的节拍给扼杀了。这种节奏已成为太多美国儿童电影的特色。
In 2009 — something of a golden year in American animation — Shane Acker’s wondrous “9,” Henry Selick’s inspired “Coraline” and Wes Anderson’s accurately named “Fantastic Mr. Fox” all provided calm, meditative space for experiencing the marvel and mystery of their beautifully realized worlds. That space is crucial; like the Japanese genius Hayao Miyazaki, these filmmakers understand that nonstop agitation gets wearisome and that even tots need time to think.
2009年算是美国动画片的一个黄金年，在那一年，谢恩·阿克(Shane Acker)令人惊奇的《9》，亨利·塞利克(Henry Selick)富有灵感的《鬼妈妈》(Coraline)以及韦斯·安德逊(Wes Anderson)片如其名的《了不起的狐狸爸爸》(Fantastic Mr. Fox)都提供了平静、沉思的空间，以体验他们创造出来的美丽世界中的奇迹和神秘。那个空间很重要。和日本天才动画导演宫崎骏一样，这些导演们明白，无休止的激动让人生厌，即使是小孩也需要时间思考。