Furman v. Georgia is among the oddest Supreme Court cases in American history. Decided in 1972, it struck down every death penalty statute in the nation as then practiced without outlawing the death penalty itself. The ruling, based on the constitutional protection against “cruel and unusual punishment,” stunned even the closest court watchers. The death penalty seemed impregnable. It was part of the bedrock of America’s legal system, steeped in the intent of the founders, the will of most state legislatures and the forceful — if occasional — rulings of the courts.
弗曼诉佐治亚州(Furman v. Geogia)一案是美国历史上最高法院最离奇的案件之一。该案件于1972年判决，它推翻了这个国家关于死刑的所有法规，同时又没有令死刑成为非法。它的判决是基于宪法对“残酷与不寻常的惩罚”的禁止条例，这个判决甚至令法庭的近距离观察者都感到震惊。死刑似乎无可辩驳。它是美国法律系统的基石之一，深深植根于法律系统创始者的目的、乃至大多数州的立法机构的意愿之中，以及法院（偶尔）强硬的裁定之中。
The 5-4 vote in Furman reflected a striking political split: all five members of the majority were holdovers from the Warren Court, known for its liberal decisions, while all four dissenters were recent appointees of Richard Nixon, who had won the White House with a carefully orchestrated law-and-order campaign. And notably, each justice wrote his own opinion in Furman, meaning there was no common thread to the case, no controlling rationale. The decision ran to several hundred pages, the longest handed down by the court at the time.
弗曼案5-4的表决结果反映出惊人的政治分裂：多数派的五人全部是由沃伦最高法院(Warren Court)留任，沃伦主持的最高法院以自由派立场著称；而四名反对者则都是新近由理查德·尼克松(Richard Nixon)任命，而尼克松正是通过精心组织的“加强法律与秩序”宣传攻势才得以入主白宫。引人瞩目的是，每位法官都写下了自己关于弗曼的看法，也就是说，此案中不存在共同的主线看法，也不存在占主导地位的理论基础。法庭裁决书长达数百页，是这任最高法院截止到那时所做出的最长裁决书。
Explaining Furman and its implications can be tricky, but Evan Mandery, a professor at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, has done both with remarkable ease. “A Wild Justice” covers a decade’s worth of litigation, beginning in the mid-1960s with a daring strategy by death penalty abolitionists to grab the Supreme Court’s attention and ending in the mid-1970s with an angry public backlash and a crushing legal defeat. Mandery knows how to tell a story, and he’s done some terrific research. His judgments are crisp and generally fair-minded, despite a clear sympathy for the abolitionist side.
要解释弗曼案及其复杂性可能很困难，但约翰·杰刑事司法学院(John Jay College of Criminal Justice)的伊万·曼德利(Evan Mandery)却轻松自如地做到了。《疯狂的正义》(A Wild Justice)内容涵盖了长达10年的诉讼过程，从20世纪60年代中期主张废除死刑者们如何以大胆的策略吸引最高法庭注意开始，到70年代中期愤怒的公众回潮与法律的溃败告终。曼德利知道该怎么讲故事，也做了极好的调研工作。他的判断干脆利落，总的来说是公正的，尽管对主张废除死刑者一方带有明显同情。
Still, at 534 pages, “A Wild Justice” contains few surprises. What Mandery has done, for the most part, is add depth to a now familiar tale.
不过，534页的《疯狂的正义》中没有多少惊喜。曼德利所写的，大部分都只是为一个如今已经家喻户晓的故事增添深度。
The first sustained legal assault on the death penalty was organized by the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and led by a group of young attorneys who viewed capital punishment as a civil rights issue because of the high percentage of blacks on death row. But defending a single race from execution seemed callous at best. “We felt a legal and moral obligation to extend representation to other clients, many of whom had suffered the same injustices,” said Anthony Amsterdam, the Defense Fund’s top litigator. With more than 600 prisoners awaiting execution, the group pushed two key arguments in the courts: flawed process and evolving standards of decency.
对死刑第一次持续的法律攻击由NAACP正当防卫与教育基金(NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund)组织，该组织由一群年轻律师主导，他们认为死刑是一个民权问题，因为被判处死刑者中黑人的比例极高。但只为一个种族辩护，令其免于死刑，似乎显得过于铁石心肠。“我们认为自己有法律与道德上的义务，去为其他客户代言，他们当中许多人都遭受类似不公，”该基金的首席律师安东尼·阿姆斯特丹(Anthony Amsterdam)说。当时有600多名囚犯正在等待死刑执行，该组织向法庭提交了两个重要争议点：有缺陷的程序，以及“正当行为标准的变化”。
Flawed process referred to the combination of wide discretion and poor guidance facing jurors in capital trials. The end result, said the Defense Fund, was an irreversible punishment capriciously applied. Evolving standards relied on a different approach, challenging the death penalty’s sacred-cow status in politics and law. Times change, the defense group argued, and attitudes do too. Americans no longer supported whipping or branding or public hanging. In a 1958 Supreme Court case on another matter, the majority had agreed “the cruel and unusual punishments clause must draw its meaning from the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a maturing society.” As the Defense Fund saw it, these evolving standards now included rejecting the death penalty as well.
有缺陷的程序指的是死刑案件中陪审员过于宽泛的自行决定权，以及缺乏指导的情况。该基金会说，这导致死刑这种不可逆转的刑罚被随意实施。而变化的标准取决于不同的途径，质疑着死刑在政治与法律上神圣不可动摇的地位。这个辩护团体认为，时代变了，观念态度也应当随之改变。美国人已经不再支持鞭刑、烙印和当众绞死。在1958年最高法院的另一桩案子里，大多数法官都同意“‘残酷与不同寻常的惩罚’之标准必须根据正当行为标准的变化决定，该标准标志着成熟社会的进步”。辩护基金会认为，如今，这个变化的标准应当把废除死刑包括在内。
Three justices seemed certain to buy in: Thurgood Marshall and William Brennan, who opposed the death penalty in all circumstances, and William O. Douglas, who loved common people in the abstract, Mandery notes, but abused everyone around him in real life. Firmly on the other side were the four Nixon appointees: Chief Justice Warren Burger and Justices Harry Blackmun, Lewis Powell and William Rehnquist. Their feeling about the death penalty ranged from Blackmun’s personal squeamishness to Rehnquist’s muscular support, but all agreed the issue belonged in the state legislatures, not in the federal courts. That left Furman in the hands of the two swing justices, Potter Stewart and Byron White.
有三名法官显然接受这些理由，他们是瑟古德·马歇尔(Thurgood Marshall)、威廉姆·布伦南(William Brennan)和威廉姆·O·道格拉斯(William O. Douglas)，其中布伦南无条件反对死刑，至于道格拉斯，曼德利指出，他喜欢抽象意义上的普通人，但在现实生活中却虐待身边的每一个人。坚决站在另一方的是尼克松任命的四名法官：首席大法官沃伦·伯格(Warren Burger)，法官哈利·布莱克曼(Harry Blackmun)、刘易斯·鲍威尔(Lewis Powell)与威廉姆·伦奎斯特(William Rehnquist)。他们对死刑的想法不一，从布莱克曼的审慎态度到伦奎斯特的强烈支持，但他们都同意，这个问题的权限属于州议会，不应属于联邦法庭。因此弗曼的命运就取决于两个摇摆不定的法官：波特·斯图尔特(Potter Stewart)和拜伦·怀特(Byron White)。
Stewart viscerally opposed the death penalty; White did not. What united them was the flawed process argument, though for different reasons. Stewart sensed that for every person sitting on death row, there were hundreds more convicted of a similar crime — or worse — who were not sitting on death row. His intention in striking down current capital punishment laws was to force the states to single out the worst offenders.
斯图尔特发自内心地反对死刑，怀特则不然。让他俩产生共识的是程序缺陷这一点，尽管两人是基于不同的理由。斯图尔特觉得每个被判处死刑的人背后，都有上百个犯下类似或更糟的罪行的人并未判处死刑。他反对现行死刑法律的主要目的是，希望迫使各州选出真正最恶劣的违法者。
White had a different agenda. The problem, as he saw it, was that capital punishment no longer served its main purpose — deterrence — because it wasn’t used enough. Either execute more people or abolish the penalty altogether, his logic went. Pick one or the other.
怀特则有完全不同的理由。他认为问题在于死刑已经不能起到它最主要的目的——威慑——因为它的威慑力已经不够了。他的逻辑是，要么就处死更多人，要么就干脆废止死刑，二者必择其一。
White’s decision to join the fragmented majority in Furman caught many off guard. Mandery’s explanation is bold, to say the least. He asserts that Stewart met secretly with White and agreed to “abandon his moral position against the death penalty” in return for White’s vote. Both men would join the majority to protest the flawed process of the current system, thereby leaving the door open for the return of capital punishment should the states write new and better laws. This, no doubt, is the book’s biggest surprise.
怀特出人意料地决定加入支持弗曼的、四分五裂的多数一方。曼德利给出的解释至少是十分大胆的。他认为斯图尔特秘密会见了怀特，同意“放弃自己关于反对死刑的道德立场”，以换取怀特的支持。两人都加入多数派，抗议现行体制中有缺陷的程序；同时，假如各州就死刑制定了更新、更好的法律，也可为死刑的回归留出机会。毫无疑问，这一点是本书最惊人的地方。
Unfortunately, Mandery cites no source for the meeting because none appears to exist. “Their conversation is lost to history,” he writes. “Neither man ever repeated what was said to their clerks or the other justices. They gave no interviews about it. Nevertheless they reached a clear agreement.” Perhaps they did; perhaps not.
不幸的是，关于这次会见，曼德利没有引述任何消息源，因为似乎根本就没有消息源。“他们的会谈流逝在历史之中，”他写道，“两人都没有对他们的雇员或其他法官重述过当时的谈话，他们也没有就此接受过采访。不管怎样，他们达成了清晰的共识。”或许他们达成了，或许没有。
The response to Furman was volcanic. Public support for capital punishment shot up and new death penalty bills flooded state legislatures. Mandery rightly sees this upsurge as part of a larger reaction against a flurry of controversial Supreme Court decisions ranging from busing to abortion. But fear of violent crime surely played a role, as the homicide rate climbed in these years and Americans flocked to vigilante-themed movies like “Death Wish” and “Dirty Harry.”
弗曼一案的后果是爆发性的。支持死刑的公众急剧增加，新的死刑法提案在各州议会层出不穷。曼德利正确地看到，这股潮流从更大的角度来看，也属于反对最高法院从校车制度到反对堕胎等一系列保守决策的狂潮。但是对暴力犯罪的恐惧肯定在其中发挥了作用，而那些年杀人犯罪率的上升，以及美国人对《猛龙怪客》(Death Wish)和《肮脏的哈里》(Dirty Harry)等自行执法者题材影片的喜好也是一部分原因。
In 1976, the court heard oral arguments on five new state death penalty statutes known collectively as Gregg v. Georgia. To pass muster, the Georgia statute included a list of death-eligible crimes, a split trial separating the guilt or innocence phase from the punishment phase and a review of all death sentences by the state supreme court. Mandery is at his strongest describing the heavyweight battle between Solicitor General Robert Bork, representing the Ford administration, and Anthony Amsterdam. Brilliant though he was, Amsterdam couldn’t shake Bork’s deft portrayal of him and his supporters as extremists who yearned for nothing less than the complete abolition of the death penalty. The justices quickly picked up on this, with Lewis Powell asking Amsterdam, who is Jewish, whether he thought capital punishment was appropriate for “the commandant of Buchenwald.” When the clearly insulted Amsterdam said no, Powell stared in disbelief. By a vote of 7-2 — Marshall and Brennan dissented, Douglas was no longer on the bench — the court upheld the new Georgia statute, ruling that it had fixed the problems described in Furman. The death penalty was back.
1976年，最高法庭就五个州议会制定的新的死刑法令听取了一系列口头论辩，总称格里格诉佐治亚州案(Gregg v. Georgia)。为了通过标准，佐治亚州的法令中包括了一个适用执行死刑的罪行名单，它还尝试把“有罪”或“无辜”的认定阶段同量刑阶段区分开来；并回顾了州最高法庭做出的所有死刑判决。曼德利在描述代表福特政府的副检察长罗伯特·伯克(Robert Bork)与安东尼·阿姆斯特丹之间的重量级交火时，笔锋最为有力。尽管阿姆斯特丹十分出色，但仍然无法战胜伯克的巧妙手腕，他将阿姆斯特丹与其支持者们塑造为希望彻底废除死刑的极端主义者形象。其他法官们很快接受了这一点，刘易斯·鲍威尔问身为犹太人的阿姆斯特丹，他是否觉得“布痕瓦尔德（Buchenwald，纳粹德国屠杀犹太人的集中营所在地——译注）的指挥官”应当被判处死刑。显然受到侮辱的阿姆斯特丹回答不应该，鲍威尔眼中露出了怀疑的神情。最后最高法院以7-2的决议结果（道格拉斯已经离任）支持佐治亚州的新法规，认为它已解决了弗曼案中存在的问题。死刑卷土重来。
Though Mandery ends his rich account here, capital punishment marches on. About 1,300 people have been executed since Gregg, with Texas putting its 503rd prisoner to death just weeks ago. A clear majority continues to support the death penalty, though the fear of wrongful convictions appears to be growing, and evidence suggests that juries welcome the option of life in prison without parole. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court has tightened the reins of capital punishment in recent years, ruling that the executions of the mentally retarded, people under 18 and those convicted of rape, even the rape of a child, are unconstitutional. For death penalty abolitionists, however, the promise of Furman must seem a distant, bitter memory.
尽管曼德利在这里便结束了他详尽的叙述，但死刑的状况还在继续发展。自格里格被执行死刑后，又有约1300人被执行死刑，几个星期前，得克萨斯州刚刚处死了它的第503个死刑犯。尽管对错判的担心有所增加，而且有证据表明，陪审团更倾向于做出终生监禁，不许假释的判决，但显然大多数人仍然支持死刑。与此同时，近年来最高法院更加严格地限制了死刑的使用范围，规定对精神障碍者、18岁以下者和强奸犯，乃至强奸儿童犯适用死刑是违宪的。然而，对于支持废除死刑者来说，弗曼一案所带来的希望肯定是遥远而辛酸的回忆。