SEVENTY-FIVE years ago today, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Fair Labor Standards Act to give a policy backbone to his belief that goods that were not produced under “rudimentary standards of decency” should not be “allowed to pollute the channels of interstate trade."
75年前的今天，富兰克林·D·罗斯福(Franklin D. Roosevelt)总统签署了《公平劳动标准法》(Fair Labor Standards Act)，为他的信念提供政策支持，他认为不应该允许没有按照“基本行为标准”生产的商品“玷污州际贸易的渠道”。
The act is the bedrock of modern employment law. It outlawed child labor, guaranteed a minimum wage, established the official length of the workweek at 40 hours, and required overtime pay for anything more. Capping the working week encouraged employers to hire more people rather than work the ones they had to exhaustion. All this came not from the magic of market equilibrium but from federal policy.
该法案为现代劳动法奠定了基础。它规定雇用童工属于非法行为，保障最低工资，限定一周工作时间为40个小时，超时需支付加班费。对一周工作时间的限制促使雇主雇佣更多人，而不是使已有的员工精疲力尽。带来这些影响的不是市场均衡的魔力，而是联邦政策。
For decades afterward, Congress brought more people under the law’s purview and engaged in perennial struggles to maintain or increase the minimum wage. Fifty years ago this month, John F. Kennedy signed its most important amendment, the Equal Pay Act, which guaranteed women and others equal pay for equal work.
之后的数十年里，国会将更多人纳入法律的管辖范围，并打起了维持或提高最低工资的持久战。50年前的6月，约翰·F·肯尼迪(John F. Kennedy)总统签署了上述法案最重要的一项修正案《同酬法案》(Equal Pay Act)，该法案保障女性等职工同工同酬。
Despite this noble history, today the act faces an uncertain future, thanks to a series of disconcerting shifts in the way we think about work in America.
尽管该法案拥有光辉的历史，但由于在美国人们看待工作的方式出现了一系列令人不安的转变，所以如今它的前景却变数重重。
The problem is indicative of the moral and political slipperiness of our time. A large and growing number of employers willfully classify their employees as “exempt” from the law by shifting their jobs, but not their pay, to administrative, executive and professional categories. Being exempt allows employers to ignore pesky things like overtime or minimum wages, since these are salaried, not hourly workers. Lawsuits over back overtime pay resulting from misclassifications have gone through the roof.
这个问题反映了当今时代道德及政治的艰难处境。有大量且还在增多的雇主故意将员工列为“豁免员工”，以此免受法律约束，他们将职位设为管理类、行政类及专业类，而不用改变他们的工资。获得豁免权促使雇主忽略加班或最低工资等麻烦问题，因为他们是受薪员工，而不是计时工。由于错误分类导致的加班费纠纷诉讼案出现激增。
If the line between exempt and nonexempt workers has become unfairly blurred, the line distinguishing employee and independent contractor has faded to near invisibility. We are moving toward the “1099 economy,” named after the tax form provided to independent contractors, a classification that often walks the line of legality.
如果豁免员工和非豁免员工的区别变得非常模糊，那区分员工及独立承包商的界线则逐渐消失，变得几乎看不见。我们正朝着“1099经济形态”的方向发展，这个名称来源于为独立承包商提供的纳税申报表格，这个类别通常是自觉遵纪守法的。
For some workers, being a 1099’er means more flexibility, creativity and control over their work. However, there are many more reluctant 1099 workers who want regular jobs but find themselves locked out of the system by employers looking for an easy way to buck their responsibility to their employees.
对于一些雇员来说，成为1099式的员工意味着工作更具灵活性、创造性及可控性。然而，也有很多不太情愿的1099员工，他们想要获得正规工作，但发现自己被雇主排除在系统之外，这些雇主寻找简单方法将自己的责任转移给他们的员工。
And then there is the most infamous classification hustle: the internship. For bright, young (and typically affluent) interns at America’s top corporations there is no actual job, so there are no fair labor standards to apply. That means no minimum wage and no maximum hours. There is often no pay at all.
然后就是最臭名昭著的推搪类别：实习生。美国顶级企业中那些聪明、年轻（时常还富有）的实习生没有实际的工作岗位，因此没有适用的公平劳动标准。这意味着没有最低工资及最长工时。很多时候根本就没有报酬。
A recent decision by the Federal District Court in Manhattan declaring that the hard-working “interns” involved in making the 2010 film “Black Swan” for Fox Searchlight were really employees is encouraging, and may well have long-range implications. It’s a hopeful sign that we may yet be able to re-establish an idea that is as old-fashioned as it is good: work and you get paid.
曼哈顿联邦地区法院(Federal District Court)最近的一项决议宣告，参与福克斯探照灯影业(Fox Searchlight)2010年电影《黑天鹅》(Black Swan)拍摄的、努力工作的实习生是真正的员工，该决议令人鼓舞，而且可能会产生长期影响。这是一个充满希望的迹象，即我们或许还是能够重塑悠久的优良理念——工作就会有报酬。
And yet, countercurrents persist. When Obamacare goes into effect next year, businesses that have more than 50 full-time employees will have to start offering health insurance. This could produce a scramble among small companies to reclassify enough employees so as not to have to pay for health insurance.
然而，反对意见仍然存在。当奥巴马医疗改革于明年生效时，拥有50名以上全职员工的企业必须开始提供医疗保险。因此，为了避免支付医疗保险所需的费用，小型企业会开始手忙脚乱地对员工岗位进行重新归类。
In response, we need a new commitment from the federal government to buttress the Fair Labor Standards Act.
所以，我们需要联邦政府做出新的承诺，对《公平劳动标准法》表示支持。
More money for enforcement is a must. Compliance actions from the Department of Labor’s Division of Wages and Hours fell by over a third between 1997 and 2007. This is partly a matter of resources: for this coming budget year, the Obama administration is seeking a modest increase of $15 million for enforcement of both the Fair Labor Standards Act and the Family Medical Leave Act. That’s not enough.
投入更多资金以加强执法是必需的。从1997年到2007年，劳工部(Department of Labor)工资与工时处(Division of Wages and Hours)的合规检查减少了超过三分之一。这在一定程度上是资源的问题：为了实施《公平劳动标准法》和《家庭及医疗病假法令》(Family Medical Leave Act)，奥巴马政府希望能在即将到来的财政年度中把预算略微增加1500万美元（约合9219万元人民币）。这还不够。
There are several other ways to improve the act. Because its enforcement scheme relies on employees to come forward, rather than on government-initiated supervision through audits and worksite visits, protection against retaliation needs to be more robust. We can also improve the law’s deterrence function, in the form of punitive damages for severe or pervasive violations.
改善法案还有其他几种途径。因为它的执行有赖于雇员主动出来作证，而不是依靠由政府牵头监管的核查和工作场所探访，所以预防打击报复的措施必须更加有力。我们还可以对严重或普遍的违规行提出惩罚性索赔，以提高法案的威慑力。
It’s true that we are in the middle of a seismic shift in the way we structure our work lives. Both workers and employers want more flexibility. But that similarity of interests shouldn’t mask the fact that employers will always have more power than their employees, and that it’s in their interests to make those employees work as long and as cheaply as possible.
诚然，我们构建工作生活的方式正处于巨大变革之中。员工和雇主都希望获得更大的灵活性。但是，他们相似的利益诉求不应该掩盖这样一个事实，即雇主永远都比员工享有更大的权力，而且花费尽可能低的成本使员工尽可能地长时间工作也符合雇主的利益。
In Roosevelt’s day, the courts found most wages and hours legislation unconstitutional based on the doctrine of “liberty of contract.” The idea was as simple as it was pernicious: wages and hours legislation violated an individual’s freedom to make an independent (read: worse) deal with his employer.
在罗斯福时代，法院认为根据“合约自由”原则，关于工资和工时的大多数法规都违反了宪法。这个理念简单而有害，即认为关于工资和工作时长的规定侵犯了个人与自己的雇主签订独立（往往更糟）合约的自由。
We can’t afford to drift further back to the bad old days of liberty of contract. Americans are drastically overworked and underpaid compared to workers in other advanced countries, and our workers are trapped in a rigid pattern of inequality that has ended a historic claim to being the nation of upward mobility.
我们绝不能再回到过去那种信奉合约自由的糟糕年代。与其他发达国家相比，美国人的工作时间严重超长，工资也过低。我们的劳动者被困在了一个不平等的僵化模式之内，这个国家一直以来标榜的上升流动性因此被终结。
Roosevelt did not bother with economic arguments when it came to hours and wages. He offered a simple framework, both moral and patriotic. “A self-supporting and self-respecting democracy,” he proclaimed, “can plead no justification for the existence of child labor, no economic reason for chiseling workers’ wages or stretching workers’ hours.” That is as true today as it was then.
在工时和工资的问题上，罗斯福对经济角度的论点不予理睬。他提出了一个简单的框架，这个框架既合乎道德规范又具有爱国精神。“一个自立且自尊的民主社会，”他宣称，“不应该为童工的存在辩护，也没有任何压榨工人工资或延长工时的经济理由。”这个框架在今天是同样适用的。