One of America’s leading political scientists, Robert Putnam, has just come out with a book called “Our Kids” about the growing chasm between those who live in college-educated America and those who live in high-school-educated America. It’s got a definitive collection of data about this divide.
美国重要的政治学者罗伯特·普特南(Robert Putnam)刚刚出版了一本名为《我们的孩子》(Our Kids)的著作，他在书中阐述了生活在受过大学教育的美国家庭的孩子和生活在受过高中教育的美国家庭的孩子之间日益加深的鸿沟。
Roughly 10 percent of the children born to college grads grow up in single-parent households. Nearly 70 percent of children born to high school grads do. There are a bunch of charts that look like open scissors. In the 1960s or 1970s, college-educated and noncollege-educated families behaved roughly the same. But since then, behavior patterns have ever more sharply diverged. High-school-educated parents dine with their children less than college-educated parents, read to them less, talk to them less, take them to church less, encourage them less and spend less time engaging in developmental activity.
父母有大学学历的孩子中，约有10%的孩子在单亲家庭中长大。这个比例在父母只有高中学历的孩子中达到了将近70%。有很多图表看起来像是张开的剪刀。在20世纪六七十年代，受过大学教育的家庭和没有受过大学教育的家庭的行为模式基本相同。但此后，他们的行为模式产生了巨大差异。与受过大学教育的家长相比，受过高中教育的家长与孩子一起进餐、给孩子读书听、与孩子交谈、带孩子去教堂，鼓励孩子的次数都要少些，参与培育活动的时间也少一些。
Interspersed with these statistics, Putnam and his research team profile some of the representative figures from each social class. The profiles from high-school-educated America are familiar but horrific.
除了这些数据，普特南和他的研究团队还穿插勾画了每个社会阶级的代表人物。对仅受过高中教育的美国家庭的描述看起来很熟悉，但非常可怕。
David’s mother was basically absent. “All her boyfriends have been nuts,” he said. “I never really got to see my mom that much.” His dad dropped out of school, dated several woman with drug problems and is now in prison. David went to seven different elementary schools. He ended up under house arrest, got a girl pregnant before she left him for a drug addict.
戴维(David)的母亲基本上相当于不存在。“她的男友都头脑有问题，”他说。“我实际上见到妈妈的时间不多。”父亲则是没上完学，他的几名女友都吸毒成瘾，现在在监狱里。戴维换了七所小学。他最终被软禁在家，让一个女孩怀了孕，但那个女孩后来为了一个吸毒者离开了他。
Kayla’s mom married an abusive man but lost custody of their kids to him when they split. Her dad married a woman with a child but left her after it turned out the child was fathered by her abusive stepfather. Kayla grew up as one of five half-siblings from three relationships until her parents split again and coupled with others.
凯拉(Kayla)的母亲嫁给了一个实施家暴的男人，但离婚时失去了孩子的监护权。父亲娶了一个带着孩子的女人，但最后离开了她，因为他发现这个孩子的父亲是对她实施家暴的继父。凯拉有四个半血缘手足——由父亲在三段关系中所生，凯拉在这样的环境中长大，直到她的父母再次分开，并与其他人结合。
Elijah grew up in a violent neighborhood and saw a girl killed in a drive-by shooting when he was 4. He burned down a lady’s house when he was 13. He goes through periods marked by drugs, clubbing and sex but also dreams of being a preacher. “I just love beating up somebody,” he told a member of Putnam’s team, “and making they nose bleed and just hurting them and just beating them on the ground.”
埃利亚(Elijah)在一个充满暴力的社区中长大，他4岁时看到一个女孩在飞车枪击事件中遇难。他在13岁时烧毁了一名女士的房子。他经历了沉迷于毒品、夜总会和性的时期，但还梦想着成为一名牧师。“我只是喜欢打人，”他告诉普特南研究团队的一名成员。“打到他们鼻子流血，我只是喜欢伤害他们，把他们打趴在地上。”
The first response to these stats and to these profiles should be intense sympathy. We now have multiple generations of people caught in recurring feedback loops of economic stress and family breakdown, often leading to something approaching an anarchy of the intimate life.
人们对这些数据和描述的第一反应应该是极大的同情。如今，有多代人都身陷经济压力和家庭破碎的反复循环中，这通常会导致个人生活极其紊乱。
But it’s increasingly clear that sympathy is not enough. It’s not only money and better policy that are missing in these circles; it’s norms. The health of society is primarily determined by the habits and virtues of its citizens. In many parts of America there are no minimally agreed upon standards for what it means to be a father. There are no basic codes and rules woven into daily life, which people can absorb unconsciously and follow automatically.
但只有同情是不够的，这一点越来越明确。在这种循环中，缺少的不只是金钱和更好的政策，还有规范。社会的健康状况主要是由公民的习惯及品德决定的。在美国的很多地方，人们对何为父亲是没有最起码的共识的。基本规范和准则没有融入日常生活，让人们可以不知不觉地接受它们，并自动遵循。
Reintroducing norms will require, first, a moral vocabulary. These norms weren’t destroyed because of people with bad values. They were destroyed by a plague of nonjudgmentalism, which refused to assert that one way of behaving was better than another. People got out of the habit of setting standards or understanding how they were set.
重新引入行为规范首先需要一套道德语汇。这些规范不是被具有不良价值观的人破坏的。它们的被毁缘于一种不做评价的文化的泛滥，即拒绝判断一种行为方式比另一种好。人们已经不再有设定标准或理解如何设定标准的习惯。
Next it will require holding people responsible. People born into the most chaotic situations can still be asked the same questions: Are you living for short-term pleasure or long-term good? Are you living for yourself or for your children? Do you have the freedom of self-control or are you in bondage to your desires?
其次，这需要人们负起责任。那些出生于混乱处境的人同样应该回答这些问题：你是为眼前的快乐而活，还是为长远的美好而活？你是为自己而活，还是为孩子而活？你能控制自己吗，还是被欲望所束缚？
Next it will require holding everybody responsible. America is obviously not a country in which the less educated are behaving irresponsibly and the more educated are beacons of virtue. America is a country in which privileged people suffer from their own characteristic forms of self-indulgence: the tendency to self-segregate, the comprehensive failures of leadership in government and industry. Social norms need repair up and down the scale, universally, together and all at once.
接下来，这就会要求每个人都负起责任。在美国，情况显然不是教育程度较低的人行为就不负责任，受过良好教育的人就是美德的灯塔，特权阶层同样受到自我放纵的困扰，只是有其特有的形式：自我隔离倾向，政府和行业领导力的广泛缺失。社会规范需要在在各个层级上进行修复，全部一起同时修复。
People sometimes wonder why I’ve taken this column in a spiritual and moral direction of late. It’s in part because we won’t have social repair unless we are more morally articulate, unless we have clearer definitions of how we should be behaving at all levels.
人们有时感到好奇，为什么我这个专栏近来常常探讨精神和道德方面的话题。这部分上是因为，如果我们不在道德方面讲得更清楚，在各个层级上应该如何举止没有更加明确的定义，我们的社会就无法获得修复。
History is full of examples of moral revival, when social chaos was reversed, when behavior was tightened and norms reasserted. It happened in England in the 1830s and in the U.S. amid economic stress in the 1930s. It happens through organic communal effort, with voices from everywhere saying gently: This we praise. This we don’t.
历史上有很多道德复兴的例子，在那种时候，社会混乱会被逆转，举止行为会变得有所节制，规范也会重新树立。在19世纪30年代的英格兰，以及20世纪30年代处于经济压力之下的美国，都出现过这样的例子。这是在社区的共同努力下实现的，当时到处都发出轻柔的声音：我们赞扬这种行为，不支持那种行为。