London
伦敦
RESEARCHING a family memoir, I recently read the magazine of my father’s high school in Johannesburg from the year he graduated, 1938. An editorial said: “The stresses set up by the social changes wrought by the advent of technology are straining the structure of civilization beyond the limits of tolerance.”
最近在研究家庭回忆录的时候，我读到了父亲在约翰内斯堡上高中时的校刊，那一期出版于1938年，也就是父亲毕业的那年。其中一篇社论说，“科技所带来的社会变化，对人造成了压力，这种压力给文明结构造成的扭曲，已经超出了我们所能忍受的程度。”
It continued: “The machine has brought men face to face as never before in history. Paris and Berlin are closer today than neighboring villages were in the Middle Ages. In one sense distance has been annihilated. We speed on the wings of the wind and carry in our hands weapons more dreadful than the lightning.”
文章还说，“机器让人以前所未有过的方式见面。今天，巴黎和柏林之间的距离比中世纪时期相邻的村庄还要近。从某种意义上说，距离被消除了。我们乘着风的翅膀快速飞行，手里拿着比闪电还要可怕的武器。”
This was written more than a half-century before the popularization of the Internet. It is important to cut off from time to time not least because we are not the first humans to believe the world has sped up and hyperconnected to a point where distance has been eliminated. Too often we confuse activity and movement with accomplishment and fulfillment. More may be gained through a pause.
此文写于互联网普及之前的半个多世纪。偶尔停下来反思一下，这很重要，因为并不是直到我们这一代人，才开始相信世界已经超速，高度互联，以至于完全消除了距离。太多时候，我们混淆了活动、运动和成就、满足。有时停一停，说不定我们会得到更多。
One of life’s great riddles is determining what changes and what does not. Di Lampedusa famously observed that, “For things to remain the same, everything must change.”
生命中一个重要的谜题，就是决定什么会改变，什么恒久不变。迪·兰佩杜萨(Di Lampedusa)有一句名言，“要保持一切不变，就必须改变一切。”
We tend to overstate what has changed. The fundamental instincts and urges of our natures remain constant. Social media did not invent the need to be loved or the fear of being unloved. They just revealed them in new ways.
我们总会夸大变化。而我们天性中最根本的本能与冲动，却始终如故。对被爱的渴望和对失去爱的恐惧并不是社交媒体发明的。社交媒体只是用新的方式表达了这些天性。
I wrote last week about how oversharing and status anxiety, two great scourges of the modern world, are turning human beings into crazed dogs chasing their tails. Feeling underprized? Overshare on Facebook or Twitter. I overshare therefore I am.
上周，我写了一篇文章，分析晒隐私和身份焦虑这现代社会的两大痛苦根源是如何把人们变成了追逐自己尾巴的疯狂小狗。感到自己不被重视？那就到Facebook和Twitter上去晒自己的私生活吧。我晒故我在。
Broadly, there was a generational divide in the reaction. Younger readers tended to see an attack on social media by some 20th-century dude. Older readers tended to nod in agreement.
总地来看，人们的反应会呈现出代际差异。较为年轻的读者会倾向于认为这是上世纪的人在攻击社交媒体；而较为年长的读者则会点头表示赞同。
To be clear, I love Twitter. It is the culture of oversharing and status anxiety that disturbs me. And that is inseparable from the grip of social media.
澄清一下，我热爱Twitter。让我不安的是过度晒隐私和身份焦虑的文化。而这又是与社交媒体上瘾密不可分的。
I started out in journalism at a news agency. Twitter is like a wire service on steroids where you can cherry-pick input from the smartest people you know. It is a feast where you generally get to choose what is on the table and where you do not have to sit through some interminable speech over dessert. It is also a battering ram pointed at the closed systems that turned that old 20th century into hell for so many.
我刚开始从事新闻行业时，是在一家通讯社。Twitter就像一个强大的通讯社，你可以从你认识的最聪明的人那里挑选最有用的信息。它就像一场盛宴，你通常可以选择上什么菜，而且你也不用在品尝甜点的时候耐着性子听完某个冗长的演讲。它也像一个破城槌，直指封闭保守、断送了20世纪的旧体制。
But like Facebook, Twitter can be addictive in ways that may provide brief solace but militate against respect of our deeper natures. There is too much noise, too little silence. To share, that once beautiful verb, has become an awful emotional splurge.
但是，和Facebook一样，Twitter也会让人上瘾，它在提供短暂慰藉的同时，却不顾人性更深层的需要。噪音太多，宁静太少。分享，这个曾经美好的词，也变成了一种可怕的情感挥霍。
The friend-follower conceits are brilliant marketing tools designed to play on insecurities. Who does not want more friends and more followers? Who does not feel the sleight of being unfriended or unfollowed, a settling of scores more impersonal than a duel and perhaps crueler for that?
人们对拥有粉丝的虚荣心，成了市场营销的利器，专门利用人们缺乏安全感的心理。谁不想有更多朋友和更多粉丝？谁在被解除好友关系和取消关注时，不会感觉受到了轻慢？一种比决斗更冷漠，因此或许也更残酷的伤害？
Joleen Grussing wrote to thank me for the oversharing column and allowed me to pass along her feelings: “It articulated feelings about social media that led me to drop off of Facebook and stay off it, after having been quite an active participant due to the art world’s crush on Facebook — being able to converse with the likes of Jerry Saltz and significant artists I never would have met otherwise was quite a musk-like attractant. But — for all the reasons you stated in your opinion piece — and a few more — I began to feel a sort of psycho-emotional nausea over even the things I myself would post. Over the way moments in life became more significant at times for the way they presented themselves as perfect photo-ops or anecdotes to be shared on Facebook, rather than as things to be experienced in and of themselves. It was as if there were two parallel realities at all times in my consciousness.”
约琳·格吕辛(Joleen Grussing)写信给我，感谢我写了那篇关于过度分享的专栏文章，并允许我引述她的感受：“这篇文章所表达的对社交媒体的感受，使我退出了Facebook，从此不再上，因为艺术界对Facebook的迷恋，我能够与杰里·萨尔茨(Jerry Saltz)之类的人进行交流，还有其他如果没有Facebook我永远都不可能见到的著名艺术家，这对我来说极具吸引力，所以我之前一直是一名活跃的参与者。但是，因为你在文章中阐述的那些原因，以及其他原因，我甚至开始觉得我自己发布的内容，都让人在精神和情感上感到恶心。通过网络，有时候生活中的某些时刻会因为可以作为分享在Facebook上的完美照片和奇闻轶事而变得更有意义，而不是因为那些经历本身值得品味。就好像我的意识里无时无刻不存在着两个平行现实。”
She went on: “Now, I am back to reading books when I would have been Facebooking. I talk to folks at the café I frequent. People have started calling me on the phone again to catch up because they don’t know what is going on with me otherwise. I have a hunch that being DISconnected is on its way to being the new trend.”
她还说，“现在，我把用来上Facebook的时间重新拿来看书。我在我常去的咖啡馆里与人交谈。别人又开始打电话过来了解我的最新情况，因为他们没有别的办法获知我的近况。我有预感，‘断开连接’将会成为一种新时尚。”
So here’s to doses of disconnection in 2013. Get out of the cross hairs of your devices from time to time. Drink experience unfiltered by hyperconnection. Gaze with patience. Listen through silences. Let your longings breathe.
所以，让我们祝愿，2013年我们能适当断开连接。偶尔把注意力从电子设备的狭小视野中移开吧。品味未经网络过滤的经历，耐心地凝视，在寂静中倾听，让你的渴望缓一口气。