Newly empowered congressional Republicans plan on moving quickly to demonstrate that they can effectively legislate, aware that they risk a backlash in two years if they fail to deliver.
重掌权力的国会共和党人打算迅速采取行动，证明自己能够卓有成效地从事立法工作。他们知道，如果不能做到这一点，两年后可能会付出代价。
“I think it really becomes important to appear to want to be a governing party rather than a complaining party,” said Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, a member of the party leadership. “My belief is we have about six months before the American people check that box one way or the other.”
“我认为，要让人看得出来，我们想要成为一个执政党，而不是一个整天发牢骚的政党，这一点现在变得很重要，”共和党领袖之一、密苏里州参议员罗伊·布朗特(Roy Blunt)说。“我认为，在美国人对我们做出任何评判之前，我们有大约六个月的时间。”
Anticipating for months that they would take the Senate and pad their majority in the House, Republicans have been quietly discussing their agenda and approach after regularly accusing Democrats, led by Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, of thwarting their priorities.
共和党人几个月来一直预计将重掌参议院并扩大在众议院的多数优势，因而也在悄无声息地讨论着自己的议程和策略。此前，他们经常指责由多数党领袖、内华达州参议员哈里·里德(Harry Reid)领导的民主党人阻碍了他们对重要事项的推进。
They say they will focus on balancing the budget, restoring an orderly process for spending bills, revising if not repealing the health care law and enacting a major overhaul of the tax code — ambitious goals, given years of stalemate and discord.
共和党人说，他们将专注于平衡预算，恢复开支立法的有序性，修改甚至废除医改法案，对税法实施重大改革——考虑到多年来的僵持和不和，这些目标都颇具难度。
Before taking up the issue of immigration, Republicans are likely to see what unilateral action President Obama undertakes, and how the country reacts to it.
但在着手应对移民问题前，共和党人可能会先观察奥巴马总统会采取什么单方行动，以及美国人对此又会作何反应。
Senate Republicans also intend to use their control of committees to bring new scrutiny to the White House, federal agencies and Mr. Obama’s expanding use of executive authority. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, a veteran tactician who is expected to succeed Mr. Reid when the 114th Congress convenes in January, has also promised wholesale changes in the way the Senate operates, including a five-day workweek, more floor debate and empowered committee chairmen.
共和党参议员还打算利用对各个委员会的控制权，更严格地审视白宫、联邦机构，以及奥巴马不断扩大行政权力的使用的状况。肯塔基州参议员米奇·麦康奈尔(Mitch McConnell)也承诺彻底改变参议院的运作方式，包括实行五天工作周、更多现场讨论，以及为委员会的主席们赋予权力。这名资深策略师预计将在明年1月114届国会成立时接替里德的职位。
Republicans say they intend to force Mr. Obama to make choices on bills that Senate Democrats have been able to keep from his desk, potentially touching off the president’s first extensive use of the veto after six years in office.
共和党人称，他们打算迫使奥巴马对一些之前被民主党参议员压下的法案做出选择，这可能促使奥巴马在执政六年之后首次大规模使用其否决权。
Some Democrats who have been frustrated by the stalemate in the Senate say they are open to cooperating with Republicans.
一些对参议院的僵局感到不满的民主党人说，愿意与共和党人合作。
“Right now, we are helping destroy each other,” said Senator Joe Manchin III, a centrist Democrat from West Virginia. “I would like to think we can work together. I’d like to get my amendments in debate.”
“目前，我们就是在相互拆台，”西弗吉尼亚州的中间派民主党参议员乔·曼钦三世(Joe Manchin III)说。“我希望我们是可以合作的。我想要让我的修正案被拿来讨论。”
Mr. McConnell, with few votes to spare, will have to balance the views of a handful of more moderate Republicans, such as Senator Susan Collins of Maine, with those of unyielding conservatives such as Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.
面对一些较温和的共和党人，比如缅因州参议员苏珊·柯林斯(Susan Collins)，和那些强硬保守派，比如德克萨斯州参议员特德·克鲁兹(Ted Cruz)，麦康奈尔不得不艰难地在他们的观点之间找到平衡，因为共和党在参议院的多数优势很小。
Mr. McConnell will also have to contend with the competing interests of Mr. Cruz and at least two other Republican senators expected to run for president — Rand Paul of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida — and those of senators up for re-election in 2016 in swing states like Illinois, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.
麦康奈尔还必须应对来自各方的利益冲突，不管它们来自克鲁兹与另外至少两位预计将竞选总统的共和党参议员——肯塔基州的兰德·保罗(Rand Paul)和佛罗里达州的马尔科·卢比奥(Marco Rubio)，还是2016年在伊利诺伊、新汉布什尔、宾夕法尼亚和威斯康辛等摇摆州竞选连任的参议员。
As for legislation, the party’s leaders in Congress are looking at five major priorities:
至于立法，国会的共和党领袖正着眼于五项主要目标：
Energy
能源
Approving the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada could be fertile ground for agreement with Democrats who have differed with the White House on the issue. Combining the pipeline with new energy exports, expanded exploration and added efficiency could build a bipartisan consensus on energy policy.
以加拿大为起点的Keystone XL的输油管道项目可能是与一些民主党人达成协议的好机会。后者在这一问题上与白宫存在分歧。这个管道加上新能源出口，开采规模扩大以及效率的提高，能够促成两党在能源政策上达成共识。
On a conference call last Thursday, Speaker John A. Boehner assured his members that he was “prepared to move quickly, along with Mitch McConnell, to make clear that the new Congress will be about jobs and the economy,” according to an official familiar with the speaker’s remarks.
上周四的电话会议上，众议院议长约翰·A·博纳(John A. Boehner)向众议员保证，他“准备和米奇·麦康奈尔一道迅速采取行动，表明新一届国会将把重点放在就业和经济上”，了解博纳此番言论的一名官员称。
But in advancing production-friendly energy policy, Republicans and their Democratic allies will have to overcome the strong opposition of environmental activists, who played a heightened role in this election and would be expected to be even more aggressive in 2016.
但在推动旨在提高产量的能源政策方面，共和党人和民主党盟友将需要克服环保活动人士的强烈反对，后者在这次选举中的角色已经增强，预计他们在2016年将更加积极主动。
Budget and Spending
预算和支出
Republican leaders in the House and Senate say that reaching a deal on a budget will be crucial not only to prove they can do it, but to allow conservatives to put their imprint on a nonbinding fiscal plan.
参众两院的共和党领袖称，达成预算协议至关重要，这不光是为了证明他们能做到这一点，也是为了允许保守派在一份没有约束力的财政方案上留下自己的印记。
Senator Jeff Sessions, the conservative Alabama Republican who will lead the Budget Committee, has had his staff looking at federal spending for months in hopes of proposing a budget that would be balanced in as little as a decade. But despite wide sentiment among Republicans for cuts, a divide exists within the party.
来自阿拉巴马州的保守派共和党参议员杰夫·塞申斯(Jeff Sessions)将成为预算委员会的主席。他已让团队成员花了好几个月的时间来研究联邦开支，希望提出一份最快能在10年内实现平衡的预算案。不过，尽管共和党人普遍认同开支削减，但还是存在内部分歧。
Some Republicans would like to reverse a series of Pentagon spending constraints put in place through earlier budget deals with Democrats, arguing that the military is strained at a time when it is being required to fight the continuing threat of Islamic terrorism in the Middle East. Mr. Sessions has expressed reservations about easing the spending limits on the Pentagon, and doing so would make balancing the budget harder and require even more to be cut from politically delicate social programs.
部分共和党人希望取消之前与民主党人达成的预算协议中给五角大楼设置的一系列开支限制，认为军方目前必须在中东地区抗击伊斯兰恐怖主义的持续威胁，实属捉襟见肘。对于放松防务开支限制的提法，塞申斯本人有所保留，因为这样做将使得平衡预算难上加难，还不得不进一步削减在政治敏感的社会项目上的开支。
But reaching a budget deal is also essential to putting in place a set of procedural shortcuts that would allow Republicans to force through changes in the health care law and a tax package on a simple majority vote, avoiding the threat of a Democratic filibuster.
然而，达成预算协议也对设置一套立法程序上的快速通道至关重要，而这种通道将使得共和党能够以简单多数来强行通过修改医疗法案及进行税法改革的提案，从而避免来自民主党的拖延威胁。
Taxes
税法改革
A sweeping overhaul of the entire tax code is another top priority for the new majority, one that at least in theory has some Democratic support. And much of the spadework has already been done — at the Obama administration’s Treasury Department, the House Ways and Means Committee (which is likely to be led by Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin) and the Senate Finance Committee (which will now have Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, as its chairman). Mr. Hatch will replace Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, a Democrat who is also a tax overhaul advocate and could be instrumental in the debate.
对新近取得参议院多数席位的共和党而言，对税法进行全面改革是另外一项重点。在这方面，至少理论上有一些来自民主党的支持。而且，许多艰苦卓绝的工作已经完成，而做了这项工作的包括奥巴马政府的财政部、众议院筹款委员会（很可能将由来自威斯康星州的共和党众议员保罗·D·瑞安[Paul D. Ryan]领导），以及参议院金融委员会（即将由来自犹他州的共和党参议员奥林·G·哈奇[Orrin G. Hatch]担任主席）。哈奇接替的是来自俄勒冈州的民主党参议员罗恩·怀登(Ron Wyden)。后者同样提倡对税法进行全面改革，或许会在谈判中起到重要作用。
The key to a deal will be the Obama administration. The Treasury Department has already developed a detailed plan to simplify the corporate tax code and lower the corporate tax rate to 28 percent from 35 percent. Republicans want it closer to 25 percent and have repeatedly said any tax overhaul must include reductions in the individual tax rates, which apply to many small businesses. It looms as a difficult negotiation, but it is possible Mr. Obama could take a page from President Ronald Reagan, who worked with Democrats to pass the 1986 Tax Reform Act.
达成协议的关键将是奥巴马政府。财政部已经起草了一份简化企业税法并将相应的税率从35%降至28%的详细方案。共和党人则希望将这一税率降至更接近25%的水平，并且反复表示，无论税法如何改革，都必须包含减轻个人税负的内容，因为这会影响到许多小型企业。看来这方面的谈判将是一场恶战，不过，奥巴马或许会借鉴前总统罗纳德·里根(Ronald Reagan)的做法。为了通过1986年的《税制改革法案》(Tax Reform Act)，里根与民主党人进行了合作。
Health Care
医疗保险
It is a delicate topic, but top Republicans acknowledge they cannot repeal the health care law, particularly with Mr. Obama in office to veto any such effort. They will no doubt take some repeal votes, but their initial focus could be on smaller changes.
这是一个敏感话题，不过共和党高层承认，他们无法直接废除医疗法案，尤其是因为奥巴马仍是总统，能够对此行使否决权。共和党人无疑将进行几次废除医改条款的投票，但他们会首先聚焦到较小的修改上。
For instance, a medical device tax used to pay for the law has met bipartisan opposition from lawmakers who represent manufacturers, and a repeal of the tax could pass Congress. At the same time, a bipartisan group of lawmakers has also called for returning the health law’s definition of full-time work to 40 hours from 30, arguing that the lower limit is forcing too many people out of work because of employers’ efforts to comply with the law. Mr. Boehner singled out that measure as one that he would like to see advance.
例如，为医疗法案筹款的一项医疗器械税受到了代表生产商利益的两党议员的一致反对，因而废除这一税种的提案可能会获得国会的通过。与此同时，一群来自两党的议员共同呼吁，将医保法案中对全职工作的定义从每周至少30个小时恢复到40小时。他们的理由是，较低的下限正迫使很多人因为雇主要遵守该法而失业。博纳已将有关这一条款的提案列为自己希望看到推进的立法。