Many people try to pay homage to historic sites by preserving or taking stock of whatever remains. Tim Greyhavens, a photojournalist from Seattle, wants to highlight a slice of history by challenging his audience to fill in the blanks.
很多人通过保护或统计历史遗存，表示对历史的敬意。然而西雅图摄影记者蒂姆·格雷哈文斯(Tim Greyhavens)却向他的受众提出一个挑战，让他们自己补完历史的空白，用这种方式去纪念一个历史片段。
For a new online project, Mr. Greyhavens pinpointed, based on records and interviews, the locations of dozens of anti-Chinese incidents in the American West that occurred more than 100 years ago. After traveling to those locations, he then photographed whatever exists there now.
100多年前，美国西部曾经发生过一系列排华事件。格雷哈文斯在一个新的网络项目中，根据文件记录和采访，精确定位了几十起这样的事件所发生的地点。亲身探访过这些地点之后，他拍下了那些地方现存的样貌。
The exhibit offers an entry point into a little-known and ignominious chapter of ethnic cleansing in American history that, viewed more than a century later, seems stunning for the sheer breadth and brazenness of racially motivated violence.
这个展览成为了解美国一段鲜为人知的耻辱历史的切入点。那是一段种族大清洗的历史，一个多世纪之后看来，当时的基于种族动机的暴力活动范围之广、程度之恶劣，令人震惊。
From the mid-1800s until the early part of the 20th century, towns up and down the Western Seaboard, stretching into Wyoming and Colorado, lashed out against Chinese immigrants by rounding them up, often at gunpoint, and kicking them out. Dozens were killed and injured, and houses were set on fire.
从19世纪中期到20世纪初，在纵贯西海岸、延及怀俄明和科罗拉多的广大地区，各个城镇都在猛烈排挤中国移民。他们被集中圈禁，经常是在枪口威逼之下，继而又被驱逐。过程中往往有几十人被杀害或受伤，他们的房子遭到焚毁。
Sometimes, the aggressors — who included mayors, judges and businessmen — acted out of economic fears. Sometimes, they acted out of cultural fears. But the Chinese also fought back, filing lawsuits and organizing boycotts, among other means. Yet much of that history is now largely unknown, even in the places where the violence transpired.
有时候，这些加害者——其中包括市长、法官与商人——是出于经济上的担心，有时候则是文化上的恐惧。但是中国人也进行了抵抗，手段包括发起法律诉讼和组织抵制行动。但是这段历史的大部分内容，如今很少有人知道，甚至在暴行发生的地方也是如此。
But instead of depicting that violence, Mr. Greyhavens opts for a minimalist approach. There are no people in his photos. No historical markers noting that thousands of Chinese immigrants were expelled or killed. Just frame after frame of seemingly mundane rail yards, downtown intersections, industrial zones and more, in the hauntingly titled exhibit, “No Place for Your Kind.”
格雷哈文斯并没有具体地展现那些暴力事件，而是采取了一种极简主义的方式。他的镜头中没有人物出现，也没有任何历史标志物表明成千上万的华人曾在这里遭到驱逐或杀戮。他的展览中，只有一幅又一幅看似平凡的铁路场站、市中心的十字街头、以及工业区之类地方的照片。展览有一个震撼人心而又难忘的名字，“你们的族类无地容身”。
“I wanted these photos to represent that all these people had been removed,” Mr. Greyhavens said in an interview. “Here’s something where time has passed, and what was there before was just gone. How do you represent something that’s not there? And what is there that can possibly be visually interesting, especially in these dull urban landscapes?”
“我希望这些照片可以反映出，所有这些人都被迫消失了，”格雷哈文斯在采访中说道。“时间过去了，原本存在的东西也已经消失。你该怎样呈现已经不在那里的事物呢？而眼前存在的东西，又有什么会在视觉上足够有趣——特别是在那些乏味的城市景观之中？”
Mr. Greyhavens began his project in 2008, when he stumbled upon a reference to a place called “Chinese Massacre Cove” in Hells Canyon along the Oregon-Idaho border. After reading up on the events, he began to “notice parallels between what happened then. and what is taking place in our country right now,” he explains in the exhibit. “Both periods are marked by a widespread lack of understanding of other cultures.”
格雷哈文斯这个项目始于2008年，当时他偶然发现，俄勒冈和爱达荷州边界的地狱谷有一个地名叫“华人屠杀湾”。读完关于这些事件的资料，他开始“注意到，当时所发生的事情，和我们国家现在正在发生的事情是有可比性的”，他在展览上解释道，“这两个时期，人们都对另一种文化普遍缺乏了解。”
The project’s name comes from a newspaper article from the time, describing one of the incidents. A map of the Western United States serves as an index, allowing viewers to click specific locations and read short historical summaries.
这个项目的名字取自当时报纸上的一篇描述其中一个事件的文章。一张美国西部地图被用作索引，参观者可以点击某个具体地点，阅读简短的历史概述。
The clearest juxtaposition between past and present is his entry for Eureka, Calif., which offers images from 2011 and 1885 of Eureka’s former Chinatown. Mr. Greyhavens’s favorite photo, perhaps, depicts the only surviving home from a former Chinatown in Rock Springs, Wyo. Tensions between white and Chinese mine workers at the Union Pacific coal mine led to the destruction of 79 homes owned or occupied by Chinese.
过去和现在最鲜明的对比体现在他的加利福尼亚州尤里卡图片上，包括了尤里卡曾经的中国城1885年和2011年的照片。格雷哈文斯最喜欢的，可能是那张展现怀俄明州罗克斯普林斯前中国城唯一幸存的一座住宅的照片。联合太平洋煤矿(Union Pacific)白人和华裔矿工之间的矛盾导致79个华裔所有或居住的住宅被毁。
“There is nothing about that picture that says, ‘Oh, I want to live there, even now,’ ” said Bob Nelson, museum coordinator of the Rock Springs Historical Museum, who assisted Mr. Greyhavens. “It just needs to be recognized, so it never happens again. People knew about it here, and they’re embarrassed, and I think they’re trying to atone.”
“那张照片一点也不会让人觉得，‘哦，我想住在那里，甚至现在就想，’” 罗克斯普林斯历史博物馆(Rock Springs Historical Museum)的博物馆协调人鲍勃·纳尔逊(Bob Nelson)说。他给格雷哈文斯提供了帮助。“它只是需要获得承认，防止类似事件再次发生。这里的人们知道这件事，他们觉得难堪，我觉得他们在努力弥补。”
Mr. Greyhavens based much of his research on “Driven Out: The Forgotten War Against Chinese Americans,” a 2007 book by Jean Pfaelzer, a professor of English, women’s studies and East Asian studies at the University of Delaware. And when asked to review Mr. Greyhavens’s exhibit, Ms. Pfaelzer applauded his efforts as earnest and dogged. But she noted that Mr. Greyhavens largely neglected what she felt was a crucial part of the Chinese-American experience at that time: their resistance to, and in some cases, striking legal victories as a result of, the violence.
格雷哈文斯的很多研究是基于让·普法尔泽(Jean Pfaelzer)2007年的书《驱逐：被遗忘的排华战争》(Driven Out: The Forgotten War Against Chinese Americans)。普法尔泽是特拉华大学(University of Delaware)的英文、妇女研究和东亚研究教授。当被要求评价格雷哈文斯的展览时，普法尔泽赞扬了他认真顽强的努力。不过她指出，格雷哈文斯在很大程度上忽视了她所认为的当时华裔美国人经历中的一个关键部分：他们对暴力进行了抵抗，在有些情况下还获得了法律诉讼方面的胜利。
“On the one hand, it is very powerful to bring place from the past into the present,” she said. “But the present can only hold history if it is somehow revealed. That, to me, remains his challenge.”
“一方面，把过去的地点带到现在很有冲击力，”她说，“但是历史只有获得揭示，才能被现实承载。在我看来，那仍是他面临的挑战。”
John Kuo Wei Tchen, an historian at New York University who is a founder of the Museum of Chinese in America, said that Mr. Greyhavens’s endeavor represents the latest effort in recent years to capture a slice of history that has largely been erased, or forgotten. Indeed, he is now the chief historian for an exhibit on the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 that is scheduled to open at the New-York Historical Society in April 2014.
纽约大学(New York University)历史学家、美国华人博物馆(Museum of Chinese in America)创立者陈国维(John Kuo Wei Tchen)说，格雷哈文斯的努力代表着近些年记录那段大多被抹去或遗忘的历史的最新努力。实际上，他现在是一个关于1882年《排华法案》(Chinese Exclusion Act)的展览的首席史学家。该展览将于2014年4月开幕。
“I think it’s really terrific that this guy did this, and that he is mapping all these spaces that seem totally mundane,” he said. “The tricky part is that most people don’t know about the violence, and they don’t know the actual stories.”
“我觉得这个人做这件事真的很棒，他列出了所有这些看似平凡的地点，”他说，“难点在于，大多数人不知道那些暴力事件，不知道真实发生的事情。”
Mr. Greyhavens is amenable to updating the project, based on additional research and suggestions. “It’s something that can definitely be never-ending,” he said.
格雷哈文斯愿意根据更多的研究和建议更新这个项目的内容。“这个项目完全可以是无止境的，”他说。
But he is already thinking about what’s next: looking at the social and economic effects of the Grand Coulee Dam on local American Indian tribes, with a focus on the inundation of burial sites and ancestral fishing grounds.
不过，他已经在考虑下一步计划：研究大古力坝(Grand Coulee Dam)对当地美国印第安部落的社会和经济影响，重点关注墓地和祖先渔场被淹的问题。