WASHINGTON — IT was exhilarating to drop a bunch of 500-pound bombs on whatstheirname.
华盛顿——把一堆500磅的炸弹，扔到一群叫不出名字的人的头上，真令人振奋。
Just when Americans thought they could stop trying to figure out the difference between Sunnis and Shiites, we’re in a new war in Iraq with some bad “folks,” as the president might say, whose name we’re still fuzzy on.
正当美国人觉得他们不再为区别逊尼派和什叶派而操心时，我们又卷入了伊拉克的一场新战争，与一些总统可能会称之为坏“家伙”的人打仗，他们的名字对我们来说仍很模糊。
We never know what we’re getting into over there, and this time we can’t even agree what to call the enemy. All we know is that a barbaric force is pillaging so swiftly and brutally across the Middle East that it seems like some mutated virus from a sci-fi film.
我们总是不知道我们在那里卷入了什么事情，这次我们就连怎么称呼敌人都有不同意见。我们只知道，一支野蛮的军队在中东如此之快、如此之残忍地掠夺，他们似乎是科幻电影里的某种变异病毒。
Most news organizations call the sulfurous spawn of Al Qaeda leading the rampage through Iraq “ISIS,” short for “Islamic State in Iraq and Syria” or “Islamic State in Iraq and al-Sham.” (Isis is also the name of an Egyptian goddess and the Earl of Grantham’s yellow lab on “Downton Abbey.”) Yet the White House, State Department and United Nations refer to the group as “ISIL,” short for “Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant.”
大多数新闻机构称这个从基地组织滋生出来的带人横扫伊拉克的臭名昭著团伙为“ISIS”，这是“伊拉克与叙利亚伊斯兰国”(Islamic State in Iraq and Syria)或“伊拉克与阿沙姆伊斯兰国”(Islamic State in Iraq and al-Sham)的简称。（“伊希斯”[Isis]也是古埃及女神的名字，还是《唐顿庄园》中格兰瑟姆伯爵的拉布拉多犬的名字。）然而，白宫、美国国务院和联合国都称这个团伙为“ISIL”，这是“伊拉克与黎凡特伊斯兰国”(Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant)的简称。
The BBC reported that some people have also started referring to the jihadis as “Da’ish” or “Daesh,” a designation that the extremists object to because it is “a seemingly pejorative term that is based on an acronym formed from the letters of the name in Arabic, ‘al-Dawla al-Islamiya fi Iraq wa al-Sham.’ ” Al-Sham, the BBC noted, can be translated as “the Levant,” “Greater Syria,” “Syria” or “Damascus.”
英国广播公司报道，有些人也开始称这些圣战者为Da'ish或Daesh，极端分子不喜欢这个看似轻蔑的名称，它是基于“伊拉克与阿沙姆伊斯兰国”阿拉伯语(al-Dawla al-Islamiya fi Iraq wa al-Sham)的缩写。英国广播公司指出，阿沙姆(al-Sham)可译为“黎凡特”、“大叙利亚”、“叙利亚”或“大马士革”。
Adding to the confusion, ISIS a.k.a. ISIL engaged in a slick “Mad Men” rebranding in June, announcing that, in tribute to its ambition to establish a caliphate, it was renaming itself “the Islamic State.” So then Agence France-Presse began referring to the militants as “IS” or “the group formerly known as ISIS,” and The Wall Street Journal switched to “IS.” The Times, however, still calls our murderous new enemy “ISIS” while quoting administration officials and military officers using the acronym “ISIL.”
给这个乱上加乱的是，ISIS（又名ISIL）搞了一次《广告狂人》式的油滑品牌重塑，为了体现其建立一个哈里发王国的野心，在6月宣布，把自己重新命名为“伊斯兰国”（Islamic State，简称IS）。所以打那以后，法新社开始称这些武装分子为“IS”或“前身为ISIS的团伙”，《华尔街日报》也改称其为“IS”。而《纽约时报》仍称我们这些杀气腾腾的新敌人为“ISIS”，在引述政府官员和军方官员的话时，则用“ISIL”这个缩写。
It’s a bit odd that the administration is using “the Levant,” given that it conjures up a colonial association from the early 20th century, when Britain and France drew their maps, carving up Mesopotamia guided by economic gain rather than tribal allegiances. Unless it’s a nostalgic nod to a time when puppets were more malleable and grateful to their imperial overlords.
政府用“黎凡特”这个词有点儿怪，因为它引发人们对20世纪初的殖民联想，那个年代，英国和法国为瓜分美索不达米亚所画的地图，是在经济利益的指导之下，而不是按照部落忠诚的划分。除非是为了表达对那个时代的一种怀旧情怀，那时的傀儡更听话，更感激他们的帝国霸主。
If all that is not confusing enough, we also have to fathom a new entry in the vicious religious wars in Iraq: the Yazidis, a small and secretive sect belonging to one of the oldest surviving religions in the world. Their faith has origins in Islam and Zoroastrianism, a religion founded by the Iranian prophet Zoroaster in the 6th century B.C. As Time pointed out, though the name “Izidis” translates to “worshipers of God,” ISIS considers them “devil-worshipers” who must convert to Islam or be killed.
好像这一切还不够混乱，我们还不得不搞清楚伊拉克的恶性宗派战争中出现的一个新角色：雅兹迪人(Yazidis)，他们属于世界上现存最古老宗教的一个小而神秘的教派。他们的信仰源于伊斯兰教和琐罗亚斯德教(Zoroastrianism)，后者是伊朗先知琐罗亚斯德在公元前6世纪创立的。正如《时代》周刊所指出的，虽然“Izidis”(雅兹迪人的别称，译注)的意思是“崇拜上帝的人”，ISIS认为他们是“魔鬼的崇拜者”，必须被皈依伊斯兰教或被杀死。
ISIS mistakenly torments the sect that has survived 72 genocides, The Telegraph explained, because the Yazidis worship a fallen angel called the Malek Tawwus, or Peacock Angel. But unlike Lucifer, their angel sought forgiveness and went back to heaven.
ISIS错误地摧残这个教派，该教派在经历了72次种族灭绝后继续存在。《每日电讯》解释说，因为雅兹迪人崇拜堕落天使马列克·塔乌斯(Malek Tawwus)，或称孔雀天使。但是，与魔鬼路济弗尔(Lucifer)不同，雅兹迪人的天使得到了宽恕，重新回到了天堂。
Fifty thousand Yazidis were driven by the jihadis to take refuge on Mount Sinjar in Kurdish-controlled Erbil, where they were trapped and dying of dehydration and exposure, which spurred President Obama to order Navy planes to drop food and water for them.
五万多雅兹迪人被圣战者驱赶到库尔德人控制的埃尔比勒地区内的辛贾尔山避难，他们被围困在那里，受着脱水和暴晒的煎熬，这促使奥巴马总统下令海军飞机给他们空投食物和水。
Although it felt momentarily bracing to see American pilots trying to save innocents in a country we messed up so badly that it’s not even a country any more, some critics warned that the pinprick bombings were a political gesture, not a military strategy, and “almost worse than nothing,” as John McCain put it.
看到美国飞行员在一个被我们搞得很砸的国家试图挽救无辜者，虽然有一种暂时的宜人感，但那个国家已不再是个国家，有些批评者警告说，有针对性地轰炸是一种政治姿态，而不是一个军事战略，用约翰·麦凯恩的话来说，“几乎比什么都不做还糟。”
The latest turn of the screw in Iraq also underscored how we keep getting pulled back, “Godfather”-style, without ever understanding the culture. Our boneheaded meddling just creates ever-more-virulent monsters. The United States has taken military action in Iraq during at least 17 of the last 24 years, the ultimate mission creep in a country smaller than Texas on the other side of the world.
给伊拉克施加的最新一轮压力也突显了我们怎样“教父”式地不断犯错误，从来也没有搞懂人家的文化。我们愚蠢的干涉只是创造了越来越恶性的怪物。在过去24年中，美国对伊拉克采取了至少17次军事行动，这是在世界那边的一个比得克萨斯州还小的国家的终极使命偏离。
What better symbol of the Middle East quicksand than the fact that Navy planes took off for their rescue mission — two years after Obama declared the war in Iraq over — from the George H.W. Bush aircraft carrier in the Arabian Sea?
还有比这个事实更好的中东危险局面的象征吗？在奥巴马宣布结束伊拉克战争两年后，海军的飞机从位于阿拉伯海的“乔治·H·W·布什号”航母上起飞，去完成救援任务。
Bush Senior’s war to expel Saddam from Kuwait — a gas station of a country chockablock with spoiled rich Arabs — would not have been necessary if Saddam, a tyrant first enabled by J.F.K.’s C.I.A., had not been given the wrong signals by our side. W.’s war with Saddam, the prodigal son’s effort at outdoing his father, ended up undoing Iraq and the neglected Afghanistan.
老布什旨在把萨达姆驱赶出科威特——这个加油站大小、满地都是被宠坏了的阿拉伯富人的国家——的战争原本完全不必要，要不先是肯尼迪的中央情报局成就了萨达姆这个暴君，后是美国政府又给了他错误信号的话。小布什对萨达姆进行的战争，是回头的浪子企图胜过其父亲的努力，结果是让伊拉克解体，而且忽略了阿富汗的问题。