DOHUK, Iraq — Locked inside a room where the only furniture was a bed, the 16-year-old learned to fear the sunset, because nightfall started the countdown to her next rape.
伊拉克杜胡克——被锁在一个房间里，仅有的家具是一张床，这个16岁的少女变得害怕黄昏，因为那标志着她很快会遭到下一次强奸。
During the year she was held by the Islamic State, she spent her days dreading the smell of the ISIS fighter's breath, the disgusting sounds he made and the pain he inflicted on her body. More than anything, she was tormented by the thought she might become pregnant with her rapist's child.
在被伊斯兰国(Islamic State)关押的一年里，她无时无刻不在畏惧那名ISIS武装人员的难闻口气，他令人作呕的声音，以及他令她的身体承受的疼痛。最令她备受煎熬的，是自己可能会怀上强奸者的孩子这个想法。
It was the one thing she need not have worried about.
这件事她倒不必担心。
Soon after buying her, the fighter brought the teenage girl a round box containing four strips of pills, one of them colored red.
买下她之后不久，这名ISIS武装人员就给了她一个圆圆的盒子，里面有四排药片，其中一排是红色的。
“Every day, I had to swallow one in front of him. He gave me one box per month. When I ran out, he replaced it. When I was sold from one man to another, the box of pills came with me,” explained the girl, who learned only months later that she was being given birth control.
“每天，我必须在他面前吞下一片药。他每月给我一盒。药吃完后，他就另外拿来一盒。当我被一个人卖给另一个人的时候，也带着药盒，”这个女孩解释。数月后，她才知道那是避孕药。
It is a modern solution to a medieval injunction: According to an obscure ruling in Islamic law cited by the Islamic State, a man must ensure that the woman he enslaves is free of child before having intercourse with her.
这是一条中世纪禁令的现代解决方案。伊斯兰国援引的伊斯兰教法中有一条看似不起眼的规定：一个男子在与性奴性交之前，必须确保她没有怀孕。
Islamic State leaders have made sexual slavery as they believe it was practiced during the Prophet Muhammad's time integral to the group's operations, preying on the women and girls the group captured from the Yazidi religious minority almost two years ago.
伊斯兰国的头目把性奴变成了该组织运行机制中不可或缺的一环，他们相信先知穆罕默德时代就是这么做的。差不多两年前从雅兹迪宗教少数派中抓获的成年女性和女童，成了他们的剥削对象。
To keep the sex trade running, the fighters have aggressively pushed birth control on their victims so they can continue the abuse unabated while the women are passed among them.
为了保持性奴交易的进行，ISIS武装人员积极避免让受害者怀孕，以便能够持续虐待这些在他们之间买卖的女性。
More than three dozen Yazidi women who recently escaped the Islamic State and who agreed to be interviewed for this article described the numerous methods the fighters used to avoid pregnancy, including oral and injectable contraception, and sometimes both.
近期逃离伊斯兰国的近40名雅兹迪女性同意就这篇文章接受采访。她们讲述了ISIS武装人员采取的多种避孕方法，包括口服和注射避孕药，有时两者都使用。
In at least one case, a woman was forced to have an abortion in order to make her available for sex, and others were pressured to do so.
至少在一个案例中，一名女性被迫堕胎，目的是让她可以继续提供性服务，其他一些女性也曾受到这么做的压力。
Some described how they knew they were about to be sold when they were driven to a hospital to be tested for pregnancy. They awaited their results with apprehension: A positive test would mean they were carrying their abuser's child; a negative result would allow Islamic State fighters to continue raping them.
有些人说，自己被带到一家医院，进行早孕测试，这时她们就知道自己即将被出售了。她们忧虑地等待着测试结果：结果为阳性就意味着她们怀上了强奸者的孩子，阴性则意味着ISIS武装人员会继续强奸她们。
The rules have not been universally followed, with many women describing being assaulted by men who were either ignorant of the injunction or defiant of it.
这条规则并没有得到普遍遵守，很多女性说，侵犯她们的一些男人或者不知道这条禁令，或者不遵守它。
But overall, the methodical use of birth control during at least some of the women's captivity explains what doctors caring for recent escapees observed: Of the more than 700 rape victims from the Yazidi ethnic group who have sought treatment so far at a United Nations-backed clinic in northern Iraq, just 5 percent became pregnant during their enslavement, according to Dr. Nagham Nawzat, the gynecologist carrying out the examinations.
但整体而言，定期采取避孕措施——哪怕只是在部分被囚禁的女性身上——解释了为什么会出现照顾近期逃脱的受害者的医生们所观察到的情况：目前为止，有700多名来自雅兹迪少数教派的强奸受害人，到位于伊拉克北部由联合国支持的一家诊所寻求治疗，其中只有5%的人在被囚禁期间曾经怀孕。这一数字来自开展这项调查的妇科医生纳加姆·纳瓦扎特(Nagham Nawzat)。
The captured teenage girl, who agreed to be identified by her first initial, M., was sold a total of seven times.
那位被伊斯兰国掠走的少女总共被卖过七次。她同意以名字的首字母M称呼她。
When prospective buyers came to inquire about her, she overheard them asking for assurances that she was not pregnant, and her owner provided the box of birth control as proof.
在潜在买家来询问她的情况时，她无意中听到他们要求确保她没有怀孕，她当时的主人就拿出避孕药盒作为证据。
That was not enough for the third man who bought her, she said. He quizzed her on the date of her last menstrual cycle and gave her a version of the so-called morning-after pill, causing her to start bleeding.
不过，对于第三个买她的人来说，这样的证据不足以让他安心。他盘问了她最近一次月经的时间，然后给了她吃了一种所谓的紧急避孕药，导致她下体出血。
Finally he came into her room, closed the door and ordered her to lower her pants. The teenager feared she was about to be raped.
最后他来到她的房间，关上门，命令她脱下裤子。这名少女担心自己即将被强奸。
Instead he pulled out a syringe and gave her a shot on her upper thigh. It was a 150-milligram dose of Depo-Provera, an injectable contraceptive.
但他却拿出一支注射器，在她大腿上打了一针。那是150毫克剂量的安宫黄体酮(Depo-Provera)，一种注射避孕药。
When he had finished, he pushed her back onto the bed and raped her for the first time.
打完针之后，他把她推倒在床上，第一次强奸了她。
Thousands of women and girls from the Yazidi minority remain captives of the Islamic State, after the jihadis overran their ancestral homeland on Mount Sinjar on Aug. 3, 2014. In the months since then, hundreds have managed to escape.
自圣战分子在2014年8月3日入侵雅兹迪人位于辛贾尔山的祖居之地以来，有数以千计的雅兹迪少数教派成年女性和女童被伊斯兰国囚禁。之后这些月里，只有数百人设法逃脱。
Many of the women interviewed for this article were initially reached through Yazidi community leaders, and gave their consent. All the underage rape victims who agreed to speak were interviewed alongside members of their family.
为这篇报道接受采访的女性，有不少是记者首先通过雅兹迪社群领袖联系上，然后说服她们接受采访。所有同意发声的未成年强奸受害者，都是和家人一起接受的采访。