VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Our digital age is all about bits, those precise ones and zeros that are the stuff of modern computer code.
不列颠哥伦比亚温哥华——我们的数字时代是由比特构建的。一个比特就是一个0和1的特定状态，由此产生出所有现代计算机编码。
But a powerful new type of computer that is about to be commercially deployed by a major American military contractor is taking computing into the strange, subatomic realm of quantum mechanics. In that infinitesimal neighborhood, common sense logic no longer seems to apply. A one can be a one, or it can be a one and a zero and everything in between — all at the same time.
但是现在，一家大型军工企业即将推出一种强大的新型商用电脑，它将把计算机技术带进量子力学的神奇亚原子世界。那是一个奇妙的微观世界，在那里，常识逻辑好像都不再适用。1可以是1，也可以是1和0，或者同时处于介乎二者之间的任意状态。
It sounds preposterous, particularly to those familiar with the yes/no world of conventional computing. But academic researchers and scientists at companies like Microsoft, I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard have been working to develop quantum computers.
这听起来可能有些荒诞，尤其是对那些习惯于非是即否的传统计算技术的人。但是学院研究员和微软(Microsoft)、IBM、惠普(Hewlett-Packard)等企业的科学家的确是在开发量子计算机。
Now, Lockheed Martin — which bought an early version of such a computer from the Canadian company D-Wave Systems two years ago — is confident enough in the technology to upgrade it to commercial scale, becoming the first company to use quantum computing as part of its business.
洛克希德·马丁公司(Lockheed Martin)两年前曾经购买了加拿大D-Wave系统公司(D-Wave Systems)的一款早期量子计算机。如今，它对这种技术已经有了足够的信心，决定把量子计算机升级为商用型，从而成为首家经营量子计算机业务的公司。
Skeptics say that D-Wave has yet to prove to outside scientists that it has solved the myriad challenges involved in quantum computation.
也有人并未信服，说D-Wave公司还不能对外界的科学家证明，它已经解决了量子计算的众多难题。
But if it performs as Lockheed and D-Wave expect, the design could be used to supercharge even the most powerful systems, solving some science and business problems millions of times faster than can be done today.
但如果新的计算机像洛克希德和D-Wave期望的那样运转，那么，它将可以极大地提升哪怕是如今最强大的计算机系统的运算能力，其处理科技和商务问题的速度，会比今天快数百万倍。
Ray Johnson, Lockheed’s chief technical officer, said his company would use the quantum computer to create and test complex radar, space and aircraft systems. It could be possible, for example, to tell instantly how the millions of lines of software running a network of satellites would react to a solar burst or a pulse from a nuclear explosion — something that can now take weeks, if ever, to determine.
洛克希德公司的技术主管雷·约翰逊(Ray Johnson)说，公司将利用量子计算机开发和测试复杂的雷达、航天和航空器系统。这种计算机将可以完成许多任务，比如即时得出一个有几百万行代码的卫星网络管理软件遇到太阳黑子爆发或核爆炸冲击波时会作何反应。这类任务用今天的技术，即使可以做到，也要几周的时间。
“This is a revolution not unlike the early days of computing,” he said. “It is a transformation in the way computers are thought about.” Many others could find applications for D-Wave’s computers. Cancer researchers see a potential to move rapidly through vast amounts of genetic data. The technology could also be used to determine the behavior of proteins in the human genome, a bigger and tougher problem than sequencing the genome. Researchers at Google have worked with D-Wave on using quantum computers to recognize cars and landmarks, a critical step in managing self-driving vehicles.
“这将是一场革命，就像早期计算机革命一样，”他说，“它会改变我们对计算机的理解。”还有很多机构会发现D-Wave量子计算机的新用途。研究癌症的科学家认为，可以用它快速处理海量基因数据。量子计算还可能用于研究人类基因组中蛋白质的行为。这是一项比基因组测序更艰巨的工作。谷歌(Google)的研究人员也开始与D-Wave合作，利用量子计算机识别汽车和地面标志物，这将是管理自动驾驶交通工具的关键一步。
Quantum computing is so much faster than traditional computing because of the unusual properties of particles at the smallest level. Instead of the precision of ones and zeros that have been used to represent data since the earliest days of computers, quantum computing relies on the fact that subatomic particles inhabit a range of states. Different relationships among the particles may coexist, as well. Those probable states can be narrowed to determine an optimal outcome among a near-infinitude of possibilities, which allows certain types of problems to be solved rapidly.
量子计算比传统计算技术快得多，是因为亚原子粒子的神奇特性。自从第一台计算机问世以来，我们用0和1的精确状态表达数据；而亚原子粒子则同时处于多种状态，量子计算利用的就是亚原子的这种特性。粒子之间不同的互动关系也可以同时并存。所有这些可能的粒子状态可以被缩小范围，在近乎无限多的可能性中得出一个最佳结果，从而实现快速解决某些类型的计算问题。
D-Wave, a 12-year-old company based in Vancouver, has received investments from Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon.com, which operates one of the world’s largest computer systems, as well as from the investment bank Goldman Sachs and from In-Q-Tel, an investment firm with close ties to the Central Intelligence Agency and other government agencies.
D-Wave公司总部在温哥华，已有12年的历史。目前，公司得到了多方投资，包括亚马逊（亚马逊运行着世界最庞大的计算机系统之一）的创始人杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)、投资银行高盛集团(Goldman Sachs)和投资公司In-Q-Tel，一家与中央情报局(Central Intelligence Agency)等政府部门关系密切的公司。
“What we’re doing is a parallel development to the kind of computing we’ve had for the past 70 years,” said Vern Brownell, D-Wave’s chief executive.
D-Wave首席执行官维恩·布劳内尔(Vern Brownell)说：“我们现在做的，是一种平行于过去70年来的计算机技术的开发工作。”
Mr. Brownell, who joined D-Wave in 2009, was until 2000 the chief technical officer at Goldman Sachs. “In those days, we had 50,000 servers just doing simulations” to figure out trading strategies, he said. “I’m sure there is a lot more than that now, but we’ll be able to do that with one machine, for far less money.”
布劳内尔于2009年来到D-Wave。2000年以前，他一直是高盛的技术主管。“那时候，我们有5万台服务器，仅仅是为了进行模拟运算”来决定交易策略，他说，“现在的运算规模肯定比那时更大了。但是我们将可以只用一台机器，成本也低很多。”
Quantum computing has been a goal of researchers for more than three decades, but it has proved remarkably difficult to achieve. The idea has been to exploit a property of matter in a quantum state known as superposition, which makes it possible for the basic elements of a quantum computer, known as qubits, to hold a vast array of values simultaneously.
研究人员致力于开发量子计算技术已经30多年了。但是要实现这个目标一直很困难。他们的思路是利用物质在量子状态下的一种特性。这种状态被称作叠加态。在叠加态下，量子计算机的基本单位，量子比特，可以同时承载极大量的数值。
There are a variety of ways scientists create the conditions needed to achieve superposition as well as a second quantum state known as entanglement, which are both necessary for quantum computing. Researchers have suspended ions in magnetic fields, trapped photons or manipulated phosphorus atoms in silicon.
科学家有多种方法可以创造达到叠加态和另一种被称作量子纠缠的状态所需的条件。量子叠加和量子纠缠都是量子计算所必需的。研究人员已经做到了使磁场中的离子悬浮，捕获光子，或者在硅中操纵磷原子。
The D-Wave computer that Lockheed has bought uses a different mathematical approach than competing efforts. In the D-Wave system, a quantum computing processor, made from a lattice of tiny superconducting wires, is chilled close to absolute zero. It is then programmed by loading a set of mathematical equations into the lattice.
洛克希德购买的D-Wave计算机使用的数学方法和竞争对手有所不同。在D-Wave计算机的系统里面，由极细的超导线网构成的量子处理器被冷却到接近绝对零度。然后，把一组数学公式加载到超导线网上，对处理器进行编程。
The processor then moves through a near-infinity of possibilities to determine the lowest energy required to form those relationships. That state, seen as the optimal outcome, is the answer.
然后，处理器检索几乎无限多的可能性，判断出构建那两种粒子关系所需的最少能量是多少。这个被视为最佳结果的状态，就是问题的答案。
The approach, which is known as adiabatic quantum computing, has been shown to have promise in applications like calculating protein folding, and D-Wave’s designers said it could potentially be used to evaluate complicated financial strategies or vast logistics problems.
这种方法被称为绝热量子计算，很可能在计算蛋白质折叠等领域大有可为。D-Wave的设计师还说，这种方法可能还可以用来评估复杂的金融策略或庞大的物流问题。