The love affair that Kim Yo-jong, sister of North Korea’s leader, enjoyed at the Winter Olympics in South Korea has not ended now that she is back home.
朝鲜领导人的妹妹金与正已经回国，但人们在韩国冬奥会上对她表现出的强烈兴趣并未消退。
Ms. Kim is one of her brother’s most trusted aides, but in a country where top aides can have notoriously short life spans — even when they are relatives of the North’s leaders — little can be taken for granted.
金与正是她哥哥最信任的助手之一，但在这个即使是高级助手——哪怕他们是朝鲜领袖的亲戚——都有可能出了名的短命的国家，没什么是理所当然的。
But her brother, Kim Jong-un, let the world know how he felt about his sister’s rare visit to the South: When his private jet carrying her home landed this week, a military band and honor guard were waiting for her at the airport in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.
但她的哥哥金正恩让世界知道了他对妹妹难得的访韩作何感想：这周，当他那架带她回国的私人飞机在朝鲜首都平壤的机场降落时，等待着她的是一支军乐仪仗队。
If Mr. Kim sent his sister to the Olympics to mount a “charm offensive,” as United States officials feared, she did her job. Her visit was still getting warm reviews in the South on Monday.
如果像美国官员所担心的一样，金正恩派妹妹来冬奥会是为了发起“魅力攻势”，那么她做到了。在韩国，她的到访周一时仍然受到人们的热情评论。
Just a few months ago, North Korea was regarded as nothing but a menace, rattling the region with nuclear and missile tests and staging bloody political purges at home. Almost overnight, with friendly smiles and messages of reconciliation, Ms. Kim managed to help soften her country’s image among South Koreans, at least for the moment.
仅仅几个月前，人们还只会把朝鲜视作威胁，他们用核试验和导弹试验扰乱着这个地区，在国内进行着血腥的政治清洗。可几乎在一夜之间，金与正靠她友好的微笑以及和解的信息，成功软化了她的国家在韩国人心中的形象，至少目前是这样。
She delivered her brother’s surprise invitation for President Moon Jae-in of South Korea to visit the North for a summit meeting, and Mr. Moon met her four times during her three-day trip. She held her chin up when she met political leaders and faced crowds in the South.
她转交了哥哥向韩国总统文在寅(Moon Jae-in)发出的意外邀约，请其访问朝鲜进行首脑会晤。而在她为期三天的行程中，文在寅与她有四次会面。在会见政治领袖、面对韩国民众时，她始终高昂着头。
Her light makeup and modest, even prim clothes were a contrast to those of her fashionably dressed sister-in-law, Ri Sol-ju. “I can’t speak very well in public,” Ms. Kim said “shyly” when she was asked to give a toast during a dinner at a five-star hotel in Seoul, according to South Korean officials who were present.
她轻盈的妆容和简朴得甚至有些古板的着装与她打扮时尚的嫂子李雪主(Ri Sol-ju)形成了鲜明的对比。据在场的韩国官员称，在首尔某五星级酒店的晚宴上，当人们请金与正祝酒时，她“害羞地”说，“我在公共场合不太会说话”。
Mr. Kim “expressed satisfaction” after Ms. Kim briefed him on Monday about her trip to the South.
周一，金与正向他汇报了她的韩国之行，金正恩“表示满意”。
“It is important to continue making good results by further livening up the warm climate of reconciliation and dialogue created by the strong desire and common will of the North and the South with the Winter Olympics as a momentum,” Mr. Kim said, according to the North’s official Korean Central News Agency on Tuesday.
据朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)周二报道，金正恩表示，“重要的是进一步提升以本届奥运会为契机，北方和南方的强烈渴望和共同意志带来的和解与对话的良好氛围，继续积累好结果。”
Despite the intense curiosity her visit generated, little is known about Ms. Kim, a member of the most secretive ruling dynasty in the world. Outside officials are not even sure about her age or marital status, though she is most often said to be 30 and married.
虽然她的访问引起了人们强烈的好奇心，但人们对世界上最隐秘的统治王朝中这位成员所知甚少。外界官员甚至都说不准她的年龄或婚姻状况，虽然人们常说她现在30岁，已婚。
Ms. Kim is the youngest child of Kim Jong-il, the North’s second leader, who died in 2011. She and Kim Jong-un studied in Switzerland as teenagers, using aliases. With a high forehead and sometimes aloof expression, Ms. Kim resembles her father more than her grandfather, the revered North Korean founder Kim Il-sung.
金与正是2011年去世的朝鲜第二任领袖金正日(Kim Jong-il)最小的孩子。她和金正恩少年时都曾使用化名在瑞士学习。金与正的高额头和常显冷淡的表情，让她更像她的父亲，而不像她的祖父、万众敬仰的朝鲜国父金日成(Kim Il-sung)。
It was Ms. Kim’s father who first noticed her political acumen when she was still young, analysts say.
分析人士称，是金与正的父亲在她年轻时首先注意到了她的政治头脑。
Back in 2001, when the Russian ambassador to North Korea asked Kim Jong-il which of his sons would become successor, Mr. Kim said that his sons were “idle blockheads” and that it was his daughters who he thought had the intellect and personality to be “reliable successors,” Michael Madden, an expert on North Korea leadership, wrote last week.
朝鲜领导层专家迈克尔·马登(Michael Madden)上周写道，2001年，当俄罗斯驻朝鲜大使问他哪个儿子会成为继任者时，金正日说他的儿子都是“游手好闲的傻瓜”，他倒是觉得自己的女儿有成为“可靠接班人”的智慧和性格。
Certainly, when Ms. Kim was in Seoul last week, she was nothing but a charmer.
当然，在上周出访首尔的时候，金与正充其量只是在展现魅力。
She is said to have told the South Korean leader that if he and her brother meet, “the North-South relations will improve so fast that yesterday would seem a distant past.”
据说，她曾向韩国领导人表示，如果他与她哥哥会面，“南北关系将迅速改善，让昨天仿佛是遥远的过去。”
“I wish I could see you again in Pyongyang soon,” she told Mr. Moon at a luncheon on Saturday, according to South Korean officials. “I wish that Your Excellency President will leave a mark for future generations by playing a key role in opening a new chapter for reunification.”
“我希望很快能在平壤与您再次见面，”据韩国官员称，金与正在周六的午餐会上对文在寅说。“我希望总统阁下您会在开启统一的新篇章中扮演重要角色，为后代留下深远影响。”
Vice President Mike Pence, who was leading the American delegation to the Olympics, warned that the North was trying to “hijack the message and imagery of the Olympic Games” with its “propaganda” and a “charm offensive.” Mr. Pence mounted a counterpropaganda campaign of sorts, meeting defectors from North Korea and bringing with him the father of Otto F. Warmbier, an American university student who died last year shortly after he was released from months of detention in the North.
率领美国代表团参加奥运会的副总统迈克·彭斯(Mike Pence)警告称，朝鲜正试图通过“宣传”和“魅力攻势”来“劫持奥运会的信息和形象”。彭斯进行了一系列反宣传活动，他与来自朝鲜的叛逃者会面，还带来了美国大学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)的父亲，瓦姆比尔去年被朝鲜拘押数月，获释后不久身亡。
But his efforts did little to stop the hoopla over Ms. Kim.
但彭斯的努力没能阻止围绕金与正展开的喧闹。
“Kim Yo-jong from the North was a nuclear bomb with a smile,” a conservative newspaper columnist wrote, lamenting the Moon government’s treatment of a member of a family condemned by the United Nations for widespread human rights violations.
“来自朝鲜的金与正是一枚带着微笑的核弹，”一位保守派报纸专栏作家写道。他哀叹文在寅政府如此对待一个被联合国谴责广泛侵犯人权的家庭成员。
South Korean media scrutinized every detail, including style of dress and handwriting, of Ms. Kim, the first immediate member of the Kim family to set foot in the South. During a government briefing in Seoul on Monday, a reporter asked whether Ms. Kim was pregnant, saying she appeared to have a slight baby bump.
韩国媒体仔细审视了金与正的每一个细节，包括着装风格和手写笔迹。她是金氏家族中首位踏足韩国的直系成员。在首尔周一举行的政府简报会上，一位记者问金与正是不是怀孕了，说她看起来肚子有些轻微的隆起。
In South Korean media, Ms. Kim was nicknamed “Princess” or “North Korea’s Ivanka” because of her influence with her brother. She was often compared to Ivanka Trump.
在韩国媒体上，金与正因对其哥哥的影响力被昵称为“公主”或“朝鲜的伊万卡”。她经常被比作伊万卡·特朗普(Ivanka Trump)。
Ms. Kim’s trip to South Korea was her debut on the global stage.
金与正的韩国之行，是她在全球舞台上的首次亮相。
But back at home, she appears careful not to step into the spotlight as part of a government whose monolithic power structure requires all propaganda to be focused on her brother. In North Korean television footage, she is often seen keeping to the background and darting away to avoid the camera while Mr. Kim presides over a state ceremony or visits factories.
但是在朝鲜，她似乎小心翼翼地使自己不要作为政府成员步入聚光灯下，朝鲜政府庞大而单一的权力结构要求将全部宣传都集中在她哥哥身上。在朝鲜的电视画面中，当她的哥哥在主持国家仪式、视察工厂时，经常可以看到她将自己置于背景中，或为了躲避镜头而快步走开。
Even as she was being welcomed home at the Pyongyang airport on Sunday, she stayed a step behind, letting Kim Yong-nam, the North’s nominal head of state and the chief delegate to the South, inspect the honor guard.
即使在周日，当她回到朝鲜、在平壤机场受到欢迎时，她依然退后了一步，让朝鲜名义上的国家元首和访韩首席代表金永南视察了仪仗队。