North Korea makes few goods that the rest of the world wants, but it does specialize in exporting bellicose pronouncements. Here are nine noteworthy quotes that have come out of the country during Kim Jong-un’s reign, which began in 2011.
朝鲜没生产几件世界其他地方想要的商品，但这个国家的确擅长输出好战言论。本文介绍了朝鲜在始于2011年的金正恩(Kim Jong-un)统治时期传出的九条值得关注的言论。
‘Cesspool of evils’
“邪恶老巢”
North Korea “can tip new-type intercontinental ballistic rockets with more powerful nuclear warheads and keep any cesspool of evils in the earth, including the U.S. mainland, within our striking range,” Kim Jong-un said in April after witnessing what was called the successful test of an engine for a reliable, long-range missile. The North has repeatedly threatened nuclear strikes against the United States, and it recently has claimed a series of successes in testing various technologies needed to make an intercontinental ballistic missile.
今年4月，在亲眼观看了一场试验后，金正恩称朝鲜“能在新型洲际弹道导弹上安装更具威力的核弹头，将包括美国本土在内的地球上任何角落里的邪恶老巢锁定在我们的打击范围内”。据称那次针对发动机的试验取得了成功，该发动机用于一种可靠的远程导弹。朝鲜多次威胁要对美国进行核打击，最近又声称对制造洲际弹道导弹所需的各种技术进行的试验取得了一系列成功。
‘We will not hesitate to slap them’
“我们将毫不犹豫地先发制人”
“If the American imperialists provoke us a bit, we will not hesitate to slap them with a pre-emptive nuclear strike. The United States must choose! It’s up to you whether the nation called the United States exists on this planet or not.” These were subtitles in a state-produced video released in March showing a computer-animated nuclear attack on Washington. The North had earlier threatened a nuclear strike against the United States in retaliation for new United Nations sanctions, which were imposed in Marchto punish the country for its most recent tests of a nuclear device and a long-range rocket.
“美帝国主义者如敢进犯一寸，我们将毫不犹豫地先发制人，发起核攻击。美国必须选择。美国能否继续留在地球上，取决于你们，”这是3月公布的一段视频的字幕。这段由官方制作的视频是一段电脑动画，显示的是对华盛顿发起的一场核攻击。朝鲜早前威胁要对美国进行核打击，以报复联合国实行的新一轮制裁。3月实行的新制裁意在惩罚朝鲜距今最近的核装置和远程火箭试验。
‘Single-minded unity’
“团结一致”
In January, North Korea arrested Otto F. Warmbier, a student at the University of Virginia, accusing him of entering the country with the intention of “bringing down the foundation of its single-minded unity.” The crime with which he was charged? Trying to steal a poster with this slogan: “Let’s arm ourselves strongly with Kim Jong-il’s patriotism!” Kim Jong-il, the father of Kim Jong-un, was the North’s previous ruler. North Korea hasa history of seizing Americans and then releasing them after a high-profile visit by an American official.
1月，朝鲜逮捕了弗吉尼亚大学(University of Virginia)的学生奥托·F·瓦姆比尔(Otto F. Warmbier)，指控他进入朝鲜的意图是“损害其团结一致的基础”。他被指控的罪行？试图盗窃一幅海报，上面写着：“让我们坚定地用金正日的爱国主义武装自己！”金正恩的父亲金正日是该国的上一任领导人。朝鲜有拘押美国人、再在美国官员高调到访后将其释放的历史。
‘Wicked Japanese imperialists’
“万恶的日本帝国主义”
“The wicked Japanese imperialists committed such unpardonable crimes as depriving Korea of even its standard time.” North Korea created its own time zone in August, moving 30 minutes behind South Korea and Japan, which occupied Korea from 1910 to 1945. Japan is widely resented on both sides of the Korean border, but the North enshrines its hostility in its Constitution.
“万恶的日本帝国主义犯下了不可饶恕的罪行，连朝鲜的标准时间也要剥夺。”去年8月，朝鲜创造了自己的时区，比韩国和1910至1945年间占领朝鲜的日本晚30分钟。朝韩两国普遍憎恨日本，但朝鲜把对日本的抵触写进了该国的宪法。
‘Hurting the dignity of the supreme leadership’
“侵犯最高领袖的尊严”
In December 2014, North Korea denied a role in a cyberattack on Sony Pictures, but a government spokesman had this to say about “The Interview,” a Sony comedy that shows the assassination of Mr. Kim: It is a film “abetting a terrorist act while hurting the dignity of the supreme leadership.” The spokesman added that North Korea did not know why Sony had been targeted, but he speculated that the attack “might be a righteous deed of the supporters and sympathizers with” North Korea in its effort to “put an end to U.S. imperialism.” These sympathizers might initiate more “righteous reaction” against the United States’ “evildoings.”
2014年12月，朝鲜否认曾对索尼影业(Sony Pictures)发起网络攻击，但该国政府发言人在谈及索尼影业出品的以刺杀金正恩为主题的喜剧片《采访》(The Interview)时说：它是一部“煽动恐怖主义行为，同时也侵犯了最高领袖的尊严”的电影。该发言人还说，朝鲜不知道索尼为什么会成为黑客的袭击目标，但是他猜测袭击也许是朝鲜的“支持者和同情者的正义之举”，他们要和朝鲜一起“终结美帝国主义”。这些支持者或将针对美国的“邪恶行径”发起更多的“正义回击”。
‘Cannibals and homicides seeking pleasure’
“寻欢作乐的食人族和杀人犯”
“The massacres committed by the U.S. imperialist aggressors in Sinchon evidently showed that they are cannibals and homicides seeking pleasure in slaughter,” Kim Jong-un said on a visit in November 2014 to a museum that commemorates the mass killings of civilians around the town of Sinchon during the Korean War. Historians say anti-Communist militias did most of the killings in Sinchon.
“美帝国主义侵略者在新川实施的大屠杀清晰地表明，他们是在杀戮过程中寻欢作乐的食人族和杀人犯，”金正恩在2014年11月视察一家纪念馆时说。该馆专门展示朝鲜战争(Korean War)期间新川地区的大批平民惨遭屠杀的历史。历史学家称，新川的杀戮事件大多是由反共民兵组织制造的。
‘Dirty prostitute’
“肮脏的婊子”
In April 2014, a North Korean government agency called South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye a “dirty prostitute” in thrall to her “pimp,” President Obama. The invective came after Ms. Park and Mr. Obama warned the North of harsher sanctions if it continued pursuing nuclear weapons.
2014年4月，朝鲜的一家政府机构把韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)称为听命于“皮条客”奥巴马总统的“肮脏的婊子”。朴槿惠和奥巴马曾警告朝鲜，如果它继续发展核武器，就会受到更为严厉的制裁。随后便有了这番谩骂。
‘Worse than a dog’
“连狗都不如”
North Korea executed Jang Song-thaek, the uncle and presumed mentor of Kim Jong-un, in December 2013, accusing him of plotting a coup. Mr. Jang was called “worse than a dog,” and was said to have “lost his mind due to his greed for power” and “persistently plotted to spread his evil design into the military.” Since taking power, Mr. Kim has had scores of senior generals and party officials executed for disloyalty.
2013年12月，朝鲜处决了金正恩的姑父、被视为金正恩导师的张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)，其罪名为密谋发动政变。当局称张成泽“连狗都不如”，“被攫取权力的野心冲昏了头脑”，且“执拗地企图对人民军伸出魔爪”。自从掌权以来，金正恩已经处决了数十名高级将领和党内高层领导人，理由是这些人对他不忠。
‘Engulfed with happiness’
“笼罩着幸福的光辉”
“Suddenly, the whole country is engulfed with happiness and the people endlessly inspired.” The largely successful launch of a long-range missile at the end of 2012 helped bolster the standing of the newly empowered Mr. Kim, and North Koreans reportedly took the news well.
“突然之间，整个国家都笼罩着幸福的光辉，人民受到了无尽的鼓舞。”2012年末，一枚远程导弹的发射基本取得成功，帮助刚刚掌权的金正恩巩固了地位。据报道，朝鲜人闻听此讯之后感到高兴。
All quotations are as reported in the state-run Korean Central News Agency, unless otherwise noted.
除非另外注明，所有引文均出自朝鲜官方媒体中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)。