No Kum Sok, the youngest pilot in North Korea’s air force, took off from Sunan, just outside Pyongyang, on the morning of Sept. 21, 1953. Seventeen minutes later, he landed his MiG-15 at Kimpo, in the other Korea.
1953年9月21日上午，朝鲜空军最年轻的飞行员卢今锡从平壤城外的顺安机场起飞。17分钟后，他的米格-15战斗机降落在韩国金浦机场。
Just as No unexpectedly delivered “the Communist world’s most ferocious fighter jet” into the hands of American forces, Kim Il Sung, the regime’s founder, was in Moscow wrapping up 19 fruitful days of squeezing aid from the Soviets, who had recently backed him in the inconclusive Korean War. Blaine Harden, in “The Great Leader and the Fighter Pilot,” weaves the story of No, the pilot, and Kim, the tyrant, into a fascinating retelling of a tale from the early years of the Cold War.
卢今锡出人意料地将“共产世界最凶猛的战斗机”交到美军手中的同时，朝鲜政权的创建者金日成正在莫斯科度过成果累累的19天，从苏联手中压榨援助——前不久，苏联在胜负难分的朝鲜战争中支持了他。布莱恩·哈登(Blaine Harden)在《伟大领袖与战斗机飞行员》(The Great Leader and the Fighter Pilot)一书中把飞行员卢今锡与暴君金日成的故事交织在一起，重新讲述了这个冷战早年间扣人心弦的传奇。
There were two encounters between the men. In February 1948, 16-year-old No listened to Kim as he stood inside a warehouse and addressed his subjects. “Our workers are now mass-producing fertilizer essential for the peasants,” he proclaimed. “All this proves that we can build a prosperous, independent and sovereign state by ourselves.” Soon after the speech, the young No decided he would feign to be a “No. 1 Communist” so that he could survive and later escape North Korea.
这两人曾经见过两面。一次是在1948年2月，16岁的卢今锡在一座仓库里听金日成站着发表讲演：“我们的工人为农民生产了大量肥料，”他宣告。“这表明我们可以凭自己的力量建设一个富强、独立、自治的国家。”这次演讲不久后，年轻的卢今锡决定把自己伪装成“头号共产主义者”，这样才可以活下去，以备今后逃出朝鲜。
Then in October 1951, at the Uiju air base near China and the famous MiG Alley, No and seven other pilots stood at attention as the 39-year-old Kim and his young son, Kim Jong Il, inspected them and their fearsome MiGs. The leader’s bodyguards, No saw, scrutinized the soldiers and their submachine guns but not the pilots with their loaded service pistols, like No’s Tokarev TT-33 ­semiautomatic. No realized he could put several bullets into the corpulent Great Leader, but decided not to touch his weapon.
之后一次见面是在1951年10月，在临近中国的义州空军基地，著名的“米格走廊”。卢今锡和其他七位飞行员立正敬礼，接受39岁的金日成与他年轻的儿子金正日的检阅，那些恐怖的米格飞机就在旁边。卢今锡发现，领袖的保镖们仔细检查了士兵和他们的冲锋枪，但却没怎么在意飞行员们身上装了实弹的军用手枪，比如卢今锡身上的托卡列夫TT-33半自动手枪。卢今锡明白，自己可以开枪射杀这位大腹便便的伟大领袖，但他最后还是没碰武器。
Harden’s artful narrative picks up as it goes along, especially when it concentrates on No, who survived Kim’s brutal state by pretending to be a fanatical Communist on the ground and by dodging combat with American planes in the air in “the world’s first all-jet dogfights.” After a miraculous flight to South Korea (the United States Air Force somehow failed to detect No’s MiG approaching the busiest air base on the Korean Peninsula), he moved to America, became a citizen, earned an engineering degree, reunited with his long-lost mother, raised a family and progressively Americanized his name from Kenny No to Kenneth H. Rowe.
接下来哈登娴熟的叙事一直引人入胜，特别是讲到卢今锡的部分，在地面，他伪装为狂热的共产主义者，在金日成的残忍统治下生存；在空中，他又在“史上最早的全喷气机空战”中躲过了与美国战机发生冲突。后来他奇迹般地驾驶飞机逃到韩国（当天美国空军不知怎么没能侦查到卢今锡的米格飞机正在接近朝鲜半岛上最繁忙的金浦空军基地），之后移居美国，成了美国公民，获取工程学位，与失散多年的母亲重聚，建立了家庭。渐渐地，他的名字也从肯尼·卢变成了更美国化的肯尼斯·H·罗(Kenneth H. Rowe)。
Rowe contacted Harden after reading the author’s best-selling “Escape From Camp 14,” based on Shin Dong-hyuk’s flight from North Korea — a tale now thrown into doubt by Shin’s partial retraction in January. “The Great Leader and the Fighter Pilot” is, fortunately, based on firmer ground. Rowe’s recollections, garnered both from his 1996 memoir, “A MiG-15 to Freedom,” and his extensive conversations with the author, are backed with archival material (notably from the Eisenhower presidential library) and recently declassified Air Force intelligence reports.
读过哈登的畅销书《逃离14号劳改营》(Escape From Camp 14)后，罗与哈登建立了联系。那本书讲述了申东赫逃出朝鲜的经历，然而今年1月份，申东赫部分撤回了自己的叙述，这本书目前正受到质疑。幸运的是，《伟大领袖与飞行员》建立在坚实的基础之上。罗的回忆有部分来自他1996年的回忆录《飞往自由的米格-15》(A MiG-15 to Freedom)，部分来自他与作者的大量对话，这些叙事都有档案素材（特别是来自艾森豪威尔总统图书馆的素材）以及最近解密的空军情报报告作为支持。
As Harden notes, Rowe agreed to a plan of combining his adventure with the history of Kim Il Sung and an account of the Air Force’s intensive bombing of North Korea. Not all of these components sparkle, however. Rowe’s life, the heart of the book, captivates; the words about Kim serve as a useful backdrop; but the reportage of the bombing feels overdone. As horrific as it was — American air raids killed up to 20 percent of North Korea’s population and destroyed 85 percent of its structures — the commentary about the destruction sometimes gets in the way. The bombing could support a book of its own, but not this one.
哈登声明，罗同意把自己的冒险经历同金日成的历史，以及空军对朝鲜密集轰炸的描述放在一起写。不过，并不是所有这些内容都堪称亮点。罗的生平是这本书的核心，这部分才是最迷人的，关于金日成的描述算是有用的背景资料，但是关于轰炸的报告就有些过度了。美国的空袭杀死了20%的朝鲜人口，摧毁了这个国家85%的建筑，尽管这非常恐怖，但关于这场破坏的评述有时略嫌多余。这场轰炸本身可以独立成书，不必写在这本书里。