SEOUL, South Korea — Kim Jong-un, the 30-year-old leader of North Korea, came to power two years ago so inexperienced and untested that the reclusive government named his uncle as the North Korean equivalent of a regent to watch over him.
韩国首尔——两年前上台的时候，现年30岁的朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)经验极其有限，未曾经受多少考验，以致于该国与世隔绝的政府让他的姑父扮演了相当于摄政王的角色，对他进行照管。
On Tuesday, the National Intelligence Service of South Korea reported that the uncle, Jang Song-thaek, had been stripped of his powers, apparently by the young leader he was supposed to supervise. It was the biggest in a series of purges, promotions and reshufflings of elites that seem to have remade the government in the image of its young leader, who inherited his title, and apparently techniques for keeping the government in control, from his father and grandfather.
本周二，韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)称，金正恩的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)已被剥夺权力，而作出决策的似乎就是本应由他监督的这名年轻领导人。这是朝鲜权贵阶层一系列清洗、提拔与重组动作中分量最重的一个。这些动作似乎以金正恩的形象重塑了政府，这名年轻领导人从祖父和父亲那里继承来的不只是头衔，似乎还有将政府置于自身控制之下的手腕。
The political changes, which were not announced by North Korea and could not be independently confirmed, follow a series of upheavals, especially within the military. American intelligence officials and some outside analysts speculate that Mr. Kim is sidelining the stalwarts of his father, Kim Jong-il, and elevating a new set of generals and party officials who owe their loyalty only to him. But there are also hints, one American intelligence official said, that “there was some kind of broader contest for control, which Jang lost, at least for now.”
这些政治变动的消息不是由朝鲜方面对外宣布的，也不可能获得独立的验证。在此之前，朝鲜还发生了一系列剧烈的人事变动，尤其是在军队里。美国情报官员与一些外部分析人士猜测，金正恩是在排挤父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)执政时期的老忠臣，提拔一批新的将领与党内官员，让他们直接效忠自己。不过，一名美国情报官员称，也有迹象表明，“存在某种更大的控制权之争，张成泽失败了，至少目前如此。”
Early in the young Mr. Kim’s tenure, American intelligence assessments questioned whether he would have the staying power to remain in office, and said he was regarded by the North Korean military as spoiled and naïve.
金正恩任期的初始阶段，美国的情报评估曾对他维持领袖地位的能力表示怀疑，并且称，朝鲜军方认为他骄纵而幼稚。
Two years later those assessments are reversing. He is now seen as fully in charge. Mr. Kim has already begun testing the loyalty of top officials by dismissing or demoting them and letting them try to win his favor again — often by spying against others, another technique of leadership inherited from his father, according to South Korean officials and analysts.
两年过去了，此类评估正倒向相反的方向。金正恩现在被视为全盘掌控局面的人物。他已经开始考验高层将领的忠诚度，方法是将他们解职或降级，然后让他们努力再次赢得自己的垂青——途径则往往是互相监控。按照韩国官员与分析人士的说法，这种领导手腕也是从他父亲那里继承来的。
Mr. Jang’s apparent fall from power came after his two deputies at the administrative department of the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea were executed last month on charges of “corruption and anti-party activities,” according to lawmakers who were briefed by intelligence officials in a hurriedly scheduled meeting at the National Assembly.
在匆匆召开的一次国会会议上听取了情报机构官员汇报的一些议员说，张成泽下台之前，他在执政党朝鲜劳动党(Workers’ Party of Korea)行政部的两名副手已因被控“腐败和从事反党活动”于上月被处决。
The intelligence agency did not reveal how they learned of the executions, the lawmakers said.
这些议员表示，情报机构没有透露他们获知处决消息的途径。
“I don’t think Jang’s deputies were executed for mere corruption. Rather, they were executed because they established a ‘power,’ ” said Cheong Seong-chang, a senior analyst at Sejong Institute in South Korea.
“我并不认为张成泽的副手被处决只是因为腐败。相反，他们被处决是因为他们形成了一股‘势力’，”韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)的高级分析员郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)说。
Despite initial hints that Mr. Kim might seek a more cooperative relationship with the country’s neighbors and the United States, he has accompanied political changes at home with a hard-line nationalistic policy of accelerating the country’s nuclear program, the main card it has to play in international negotiations.
金正恩执政初期，有迹象显示他或许会寻求与各邻国及美国发展更有利于合作的关系，尽管如此，他还是在国内实施了多项政治变动，佐之以加快核计划进展的强硬民族主义政策。核计划是朝鲜在国际谈判中的王牌。
In February, North Korea conducted its third nuclear test, and it appears to be restarting its capacity to produce plutonium, a main ingredient for its small nuclear arsenal. And it has threatened to attack Japanese, South Korea and American targets, though in recent months the country’s warnings of imminent war have quieted.
今年2月，朝鲜进行了第三次核试验，似乎还在重启提炼钚——制造其小型核武器的主要原料——的能力。而且，朝鲜曾威胁攻击日本、韩国和美国的目标，尽管最近几个月以来，它关于战争迫在眉睫的警告已趋于平息。
The reported downfall of Mr. Jang, effectively North Korea’s No. 2 leader, set off a frenzy of speculation among North Korea watchers and South Korean government officials. Since Mr. Kim took power, they have theorized that a power and policy struggle might be playing out behind the public displays of mass solidarity. Mr. Jang’s rise in power in the past few years coincided with the humiliation of the old military elite, who surrendered some of their lucrative rights to trade in minerals and seafood to the Cabinet and the party, where Mr. Jang has built his career.
张成泽基本算是朝鲜的二号人物。他下台的报道引发了观察朝鲜的人士及韩国政府官员的疯狂猜想。自金正恩上台以来，他们一直在推测，展示集体团结的公开表演背后很可能上演着权力与政策斗争。张成泽过去几年的崛起伴随的是老的军方领导层颜面扫地，后者将矿产与海产品交易中的部分油水丰厚的特权交给了内阁和党，张成泽则借此飞黄腾达。
Some analysts said they feared that the eclipse of Mr. Jang so early in Mr. Kim’s rule could suggest a power struggle that could destabilize the North. If so, they worry that Mr. Kim might resort to militaristic provocations to divert attention from domestic instability.
一些分析人士称，他们担心，张成泽在金正恩统治时期如此早的阶段就失势，或许表明朝鲜存在可能会让该国陷入动荡的权力斗争。果真如此的话，他们担心金正恩可能会诉诸军事挑衅，以便把注意力从国内动荡上转移出去。
On Tuesday, the Defense Ministry in Seoul said it saw no unusual movement from the North Korean army.
周二的时候，位于首尔的韩国国防部称，没有观察到朝鲜军队有任何异动。
“Jang Song-thaek and his wife, Kim Kyong-hee, have been the core members of power upholding Kim Jong-un, and I think Jang’s fall will entail a serious shake-up in the North Korean political landscape,” said Jeong Cheong-rae, a South Korean opposition lawmaker and member of the National Assembly’s intelligence committee on Tuesday. “The intelligence agency gave us an unexpected briefing today, saying that they had something urgent to report about a development of great import in North Korea.”
“张成泽和他的妻子金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hee)一直是支持金正恩的权力集团的核心成员，我认为，张成泽的倒台将促使朝鲜政治版图发生剧变，”韩国反对派议员、国民大会情报委员会成员郑清来(Jung Cheong-rae)周二表示。“情报机构今天提供的讯息很让我们意外，他们说有一件关于朝鲜的重要事情需要紧急报告。”
In the past, North Korean officials reported to have been purged in South Korean media have resurfaced. Mr. Jang himself had disappeared twice in the past but later staged a comeback. Still, even before the South Korea intelligence report, his unusually long absence from North Korean media were viewed by media in the South as signs that Mr. Jang was in trouble.
韩国媒体报道已遭清洗的朝鲜官员后来又重新露面，过去曾有这样的事例。张成泽自己就曾两度消失，随后又重回政坛。然而，在韩国情报机构报告此事之前，韩国媒体早已一致认为，他长时间不在朝鲜媒体露面的奇怪现象说明他遇到了麻烦。
“The latest purge or execution of Jang’s followers sends a powerful message to all and particularly to those harboring illusions of power,” said Sung-yoon Lee, North Korea specialist at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
塔夫斯大学(Tufts University)弗莱彻法律与外交学院(Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy)的朝鲜问题专家李成允(Sung-yoon Lee)说，“张成泽的党羽最近遭到清洗或处决的事实给所有人，特别是那些幻想攫取权力的人发出了一条强有力的讯息。”
“In a totalitarian system, the life of the No. 2 man or regent is oftentimes short and precarious,” Mr. Lee added.
李成允还说，“在极权主义体系中，二号人物或摄政者往往很短命，而且岌岌可危。”
Mr. Jang, 67, has been a fixture in the North Korean power elite since the days of Kim Jong-il, exercising his widespread influence from the party’s administrative department, which he headed. His wife is the sister of Kim Jong-il and an aunt of the current leader.
自金正恩之父金正日去世以后，今年67岁的张成泽一直是其侄子的导师，也是朝鲜权力精英阶层中的一个不倒翁。他主管劳动党行政部，在这个职位上发挥着巨大的影响力。他的妻子是金正日的妹妹，也就是现任领导人金正恩的姑姑。
The couple emerged as key brokers of power after Kim Jong-il suffered a stroke in 2008. They played leading roles in engineering the fast-track grooming of Kim Jong-un as designated heir, analysts said.
在金正日2008年中风以后，张成泽及其妻子就成了朝鲜政权当中关键的权力掮客。分析人士说，他们在快速帮助既定接班人金正恩做好准备的过程中扮演着领导角色。
Following Kim Jong-il’s death in late 2011, the couple helped their nephew consolidate power through a series of purges that replaced 44 percent of top officials in the party, military and cabinet. (Mr. Jang is estranged from his ailing wife, according to reports in the South Korean news media.)
2011年底金正日去世以后，这对夫妇通过一系列清洗运动帮助侄子巩固政权，换掉了劳动党、军队和政府高层中44%的领导人。（韩国媒体报道称，张成泽与自己患病的妻子不和。）
Outside news outlets have since called Mr. Jang a “guardian” and “mentor” for his young nephew. In April, Pak Pong-ju, an economic technocrat reportedly close to Mr. Jang, was made premier, a post that includes oversight of the economy. Last year, Mr. Jang visited China to seek Beijing’s help in building two free economic zones on its border.
从那以后，外界媒体一直把张成泽称为其年轻侄子的“监护人”和“导师”。今年4月，朴凤柱(Pak Pong-ju)成为总理，手握经济大权。他是一名经济技术官僚，据传与张成泽关系密切。去年张成泽曾出访中国，为在边境地区建立两个自由经济区来寻求北京的帮助。
But Mr. Jang’s seemingly unbridled influence has also prompted analysts to speculate that Mr. Kim would eventually see him as a challenge to his authority. They said that Mr. Kim had moved to weaken the broad network Mr. Jang had built while the regime was going through a transition in the last two years.
但是，张成泽看似不受约束的影响力也促使外部分析人士猜测，金正恩最终会将他视作对自己权威的一个潜在挑战。他们说，金正恩已经开始削弱张成泽在过去两年权力交接期间建起的一个广阔网络。
Mr. Jang would not be the first No. 2 or the first uncle of the North Korean leader to lose power. Kim Jong-il plotted a purge of his own powerful uncle to solidify control after the death of his father, the North’s founding president, Kim Il-sung.
张成泽绝不能算是朝鲜第一个失势的二号人物或领导人的叔伯。朝鲜建国领导人金日成(Kim Il-sung)过世后，他的儿子金正日设计对自己颇有权势的叔叔进行了清洗，为的是巩固权力。
In July last year, Kim Jong-un removed his then No. 2 man, Vice Marshal Ri Yong-ho.
去年7月，金正恩解除了当时的二号人物次帅李英浩(Ri Yong-ho)的职务。
Analysts said they suspected that Mr. Jang’s downfall may have been engineered by Kim Won-hong, who was made head of the nation’s secret police and spy agency in April last year, and Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, who became the top political officer in the military under Mr. Kim. On Tuesday, the South Korean intelligence officials said North Korea’s secret police began investigating the corruption of Mr. Jang’s close allies this year.
分析人士称，他们怀疑张成泽的下台肯定是金元宏(Kim Won-hong)和崔龙海次帅(Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae)策划的。金元宏于去年4月成为朝鲜秘密警察和间谍机构的负责人，崔龙海则成了金正恩领导下的军队的首席政治官员。韩国情报人员周二表示，朝鲜秘密警察今年已开始调查张成泽的亲密盟友的腐败行为。
Mr. Jang has vanished from public view twice before, the last time from 2003 to 2006, during a period when Mr. Kim’s father suppressed his power. He was humbled and later reinstated, according to South Korean officials.
张成泽以前曾两次从公众视野消失，上一次是2003年到2006年，他的权力遭到了金正恩父亲的打压。按照韩国官员的说法，当时他一度失势，后来又官复原职。