SEOUL, South Korea — In most countries, footage showing the leader with a limp might have generated some curiosity. But in tightly controlled North Korea, those images — coupled with the disappearance of the country’s ruler, Kim Jong-un, from public view for five weeks — have generated endless debate among foreign officials and analysts always on the lookout for upheaval in one of the world’s most dangerous police states.
韩国首尔——在大多数国家，显示领导人一瘸一拐走路的视频片断可能会产生一些好奇。但是，在严密控制的朝鲜，这种镜头、加上该国的统治者金正恩从公众视野中消失五周的情况，已在外交官员和分析人士中引发了无休止的争论，他们总在留心世界上这个最危险的警察国家出现动荡的迹象。
The disappearance is especially notable because Mr. Kim, like his father and grandfather before him, has used public appearances accompanied by fawning subjects as a key tool of the propaganda machine that has long held the state together.
消失尤其值得注意，是因为金正恩像他的父亲和祖父一样，都把在顺从国民的簇拥下在公众场合露面，长期作为维系国家的宣传机器的重要工具之一。
For now, American and South Korean officials say that while they think the young leader might be ailing, there is no sign that there has been a coup. After three generations of Kims, any shift away from dynastic rule would probably involve unusual movements of the country’s million-plus military or its people, and none have been detected by the South.
就目前来看，美国和韩国官员都表示，虽然他们认为这位年轻的领导人可能生了病，但没有迹象表明发生了政变。金氏王朝已进入第三代，王朝统治的任何转变都可能会涉及该国上百万的军队或该国人民的不寻常行动，而韩国尚未侦查到任何行动。
And the fact that North Korea sent three officials widely seen as the Nos. 2, 3 and 4 in the country’s hierarchy to attend the recent closing ceremony of the Asian Games in South Korea, and that during their visit they agreed to resume official dialogue with Seoul, suggests that Mr. Kim remains in control, according to officials and analysts in South Korea.
而且，据韩国官员和分析家说，朝鲜最近派出被广泛认为是其国内2号、3号和4号人物的三名官员前往韩国，参加亚运会闭幕式的事实，以及在访问期间，他们同意与首尔恢复官方对话的事实，都表明金正恩仍在控制国家。
In Washington, officials have waved off coup rumors as the wishful thinking of people who have spent years looking for signs of regime collapse and been serially disappointed.
在华盛顿，官员们认为政变的传闻是一些人的妄想，这些人多年来一直在寻找政权崩溃的迹象，但不断失望。
“The last time was when everyone was predicting that Kim Jong-un would be pushed aside by his more experienced uncle,” said one senior official. “And look what happened to him.”
“上一次，人人都在预测，金正恩将被其更有经验的姑父排挤掉，”一位高级官员说。“看看他的下场如何。”
That uncle, Jang Song-thaek, 67, got on his nephew’s bad side over business deals and power plays involving some in the elite, and was executed last year, according to accounts pieced together by American and South Korean officials at the time. That has spawned rumors that disaffected members of the ruling party or military, eager to settle scores, are at it again, but officials say there is far more speculation of such a plot than evidence.
据美国和韩国官员对当时情况拼凑出来的了解，那位姑父、67岁的张成泽由于商业交易和玩弄涉及某些精英的权力游戏，触犯了自己的侄子，已于去年被处决。那件事催生的传言称，渴望报复的执政党或军中有叛意的成员又有动作，但官员表示，就阴谋来说，更多的是猜测，而不是证据。
But given the secretive nature of the North Korean government, and the consequences of turmoil in a nuclear-armed and often belligerent country, the official doubts about any power shifts have done little to stop speculation.
但是，考虑到朝鲜政府封闭的性质，以及在一个拥有核武器且常有好战表现的国家出现动荡的后果，官方对任何权力转移所表示的怀疑，对停止人们的猜想并没起多少作用。
Some of the rumors are relatively benign, suggesting that the corpulent Mr. Kim is simply recovering from that nemesis of many a leader with a soft spot for rich food: gout. But others suggest that Mr. Kim, who is believed to be about 30, has finally lost power to older North Korean power brokers more schooled in the country’s treacherous politics, either through a planned revolt or a more subtle takeover that would leave him as a figurehead.
有些传言相对来说还算好的，认为肥胖的金正恩遭到了许多喜欢美食的领导人同样面临的报应：痛风，正在恢复之中。但也有人认为，年龄据认在30岁上下的金正恩终于在权力斗争中，或通过有计划的反叛，或通过让他成为有名无实的领导人的更微妙的安排，输给了朝鲜更年长的权力掮客，这些人更熟悉该国的诡谲政治​​。
One reason for the proliferation of theories is that rumors in North Korea have sometimes turned out to be true. These include news of the country’s devastating famine in the 1990s as well as the more recent (and unpopular) currency reform, which in both cases first surfaced in poorly sourced reports.
各种理论大量涌现的一个原因是，有关朝鲜的谣言有时被证明是真的，包括上个世纪90年代该国毁灭性饥荒的报道，以及更近的（不受欢迎的）货币改革，这两种情况都先出现在消息来源不明的报道中。
But there is also always the temptation to believe the worst of a family-ruled country that has little exposure to the outside world and has displayed its share of oddities, and cruelties. At least in earshot of their many minders, regular North Koreans credit the Kims with godlike feats. And although experts say Mr. Kim did not feed his uncle to dogs as one blog post suggested, South Korean intelligence officials said some of the uncle’s lieutenants were executed by machine gun.
但也有另一个原因，那就是人们总愿意相信一个由家族统治的国家会出现的最糟糕情况，这个国家与外部世界几乎没有接触，且不时展示其古怪和残酷的一面。至少在监视人听得到的地方，许多普通朝鲜人颂扬金氏神一般的功勋。而且，尽管专家表示，金正恩并没有像一篇博客贴文所说的，把自己的姑父喂了狗，但韩国情报官员说，其姑父的几个副手是用机枪处决的。
In gauging what has happened to Mr. Kim, some analysts have noted that his father and grandfather also disappeared for weeks on end.
在猜度金正恩出了什么事情上，有些分析人士指出，他的父亲和祖父也曾消失过一连几周。
“Kim Jong-un’s disappearing act over the past month, in the North Korean context, is not an aberration,” said Lee Sung-yoon, a North Korea expert at Tufts University’s Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. “Such vanishing acts would be most unusual in democracies, but in totalitarian North Korea, Kim is the state. He is free to come and go as he pleases.”
“就朝鲜的情况而言，过去一个月中金正恩的消失行为并非异常，”塔夫茨大学弗莱彻法律与外交学院的朝鲜问题专家李成允(Lee Sung-yoon)说。“这种消失行为在民主国家会是极不寻常的事情，但在极权的朝鲜，金正恩就是国家。他可以随便想去哪儿就去哪儿。”
Mr. Kim, however, has never been gone from sight this long and, until now, had been notably visible, visiting farms, factories and military units more frequently than his reclusive father did.
但是，金正恩从来没有这么久地离开过人们的视野，而且此前，他一直明显可见，比其深居简出的父亲更加频繁地视察农场、工厂和部队。
Other than Mr. Kim’s absence, there are few outward signs of trouble in the North. The North Korean media is brimming, as usual, with propaganda extolling his leadership. On Tuesday, the North’s main party newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, intoned that the people and military of North Korea “knew no other leader than the marshal.” Daily NK, a Seoul-based website that says it uses anonymous sources within the North, reported North Korean citizens watching the Asian Games on large screens in central Pyongyang in recent weeks while the media there attributed any victory by North Korean athletes to the “greatness” of Mr. Kim.
除了金正恩消失的情况，朝鲜几乎没有表现出任何有麻烦的外部迹象。朝鲜媒体仍像往常一样，洋溢着颂扬金正恩领导能力的宣传。周二，朝鲜的主要党报《劳动新闻》庄重地表示，朝鲜人民和军队“除了元帅之外，没有别的领袖”。总部在首尔的Daily NK网站援引其在朝鲜的匿名消息源报道说，最近几周里，朝鲜民众在平壤中心地带的大屏幕上观看亚运会比赛，每次朝鲜选手获胜时，媒体都把其归功于金正恩的“伟大”。
Most analysts in South Korea conclude that Mr. Kim has been kept from the cameras since Sept. 3 simply because he is suffering from some ailment.
韩国多数分析师的结论是，金正恩自从9月3日以来没有在镜头上出现，只不过是因为他患了某种疾病。
With so much internal propaganda focused on Mr. Kim, John Delury, a North Korea expert at Yonsei University in Seoul, said that if Mr. Kim had surgery and was recuperating, the North would probably not want to release images of him in a wheelchair. North Korea kept Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, out of public view for months after he suffered a stroke in 2008.
首尔延世大学的朝鲜问题专家鲁乐汉(John Delury)表示，由于金正恩是这么多对内宣传的重点，如果他做了手术后正在休养，朝鲜大概不会播放他坐在轮椅上的镜头。2008年，金正恩的父亲金正日中风后，朝鲜有好几个月没有让金正日出现在公众视野之中。