A new year, a new look for Kim Jong-un?
新的一年，金正恩也有了新形象？
For his New Year’s speech, Mr. Kim, the leader of North Korea, traded his usual atonal, Mao-collared outfits for what looked like the sort of silver-gray suit and matching tie that come straight from the elder statesmen costume department.
发表新年贺词时，朝鲜领导人金正恩一改往常的乏味中山装，穿着了一身银灰色套装以及搭配的领带，看起来仿佛老年政治家角色会穿的戏服。
It was a choice seemingly calculated to — well, dress up his message of outreach to South Korea, in which he urged negotiations over the North’s possible participation in the Winter Olympics in the South in February.
这个选择似乎经过精心设计——好吧，是精心打扮——为的是匹配他向韩国示好的讯息，在讲话中，他呼吁就朝鲜参加二月在韩国举办的冬季奥运会的可能性进行磋商。
North Korea’s top leaders have been known for their drab, peasant-style outerwear, with Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, favoring Mao-style jackets. But his son, in addition to ramping up his country’s weapons of mass destruction, appears intent on modernizing his country’s look, too.
朝鲜最高领导人以颜色单调的农民风格穿着闻名，金正恩的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)喜欢穿毛式夹克。不过他的儿子除了努力增加本国的大规模杀伤性武器之外，似乎也致力于从外貌上实现国家的现代化。
“He’s dressed like that before — a banker, wearing Armani,” said Robert Kelly, a political-science professor at Pusan National University in South Korea. “There has been a lot of speculation that he is trying to make North Korea look more modern and connected. His father’s Mao suits looked ridiculous in the 21st century.”
“他之前穿过类似的衣服——打扮得像一个穿着阿玛尼的银行家，”韩国釜山国立大学(Pusan National University)的政治学教授罗伯特·凯利(Robert Kelly)说。“很多人猜测，他试图让朝鲜看起来更现代，与世界的联系更密切。他父亲的中山装在21世纪看起来很可笑。”
Mr. Kim’s lightly striped jacket came with a matching tie and slacks. His trademark hairstyle was carefully coifed, and in a twist, it was shorn above the ears, leaving what has been dubbed a “trapezoid shaped” haircut.
金正恩的浅条纹上衣搭配同色领带和便装裤。他的标志性发型被精心修饰得很服帖，唯一的变化是剃掉了耳朵上方的头发，形成了所谓的“梯形”发型。
The soft tones of his outfit did not carry through to his message, in which he boasted of having “a nuclear button on the desk in my office.” And it stood at stark odds with the reputation of a leader who is suspected of ordering the assassination of his half brother with VX nerve agent, having his uncle and mentor killed with antiaircraft machine guns and running a state security apparatus that enslaves even children in prison camps.
外套的柔和色调与他传达的信息并不一致，他在讲话中炫耀称，“我的办公桌上有一个核按钮”。”他的服装与他作为领导者的名声形成了鲜明的对比，他被怀疑下令用VX神经毒气暗杀了和他同父异母的兄长；下令用高射机枪杀死了他的姑父和导师；他设置的国家安全机构甚至把儿童关进劳改营。
“It’s a flimflam,” Mr. Kelly said. “Just a show.”
“这只是一个幌子，”凯利说。“只是一场表演。”
The address was closely watched in South Korea, a country known for its attention to outward appearances, with a cosmetic surgery industry that is the envy of Asia. Initial reaction there was positive, at least on the substance, with a South Korean government spokesman saying, “We have already expressed our willingness to engage in a dialogue with North Korea at any time.”
在以注重外貌闻名、拥有傲视亚洲的整容业的韩国，金正恩的讲话受到密切关注。韩国最初的反应是积极的，至少对其讲话的要旨是这样，韩国政府发言人称，“我们已经表示愿意随时与朝鲜进行对话。”
In dressing up for his speech, Mr. Kim, who was educated in Swiss schools, may just be hearkening back to his grandfather, Kim Il-sung, the founder of North Korea and a man the young Mr. Kim is often said to emulate, even in his rotund frame and haircut. The grandfather was known for occasionally wearing Western-style suits.
曾在瑞士读书的金正恩为此次讲话的精心打扮，可能是源自他的祖父、朝鲜建国者金日成(Kim Il-sung)的教诲。常有传闻称年轻的金正恩模仿了金日成，甚至包括他圆胖的体型和发型。金日成以偶尔穿西式服装闻名。