SEOUL, South Korea — Kim Kyong-hui, an aunt of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, appears to have survived the purge and execution of her husband, Jang Song-thaek, as her name re-emerged in a leadership list in the North’s state-run news media over the weekend.
韩国首尔——上周末，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)的姑母金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hui)的名字再次出现在了朝鲜国有媒体发布的一份领导人名单上，这表明，在她的丈夫张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)遭到清洗和处决后，她似乎未受影响。
The North’s Korean Central News Agency on Saturday included Ms. Kim’s name in the roster of top officials appointed to a national committee in charge of organizing a state funeral for Kim Kuk-tae, a former party secretary who died on Friday at 89.
朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)周六宣布了负责为上周五去世的89岁的前朝鲜劳动党(Workers’ Party)委员长金国泰(Kim Kuk-tae)筹备国葬的委员会高官名单，其中包括金敬姬。
In North Korea, whether an official’s name is included in such a list is an important gauge of whether the official is favored by the government. Ms. Kim was placed sixth on the list that included most of the top party and military figures. The list also included Vice Premier Ro Du-chol, one of the people said to have been close to Mr. Jang, discrediting recent news reports in South Korea that Mr. Ro might be one of the senior North Koreans said to be fleeing a widening political purge after Mr. Jang’s downfall.
在朝鲜，一名官员的名字是否能出现在这样的名单里，是衡量该官员是否受到政府青睐的重要标尺。在这份主要由党内和军方高级官员组成的名单中，金敬姬排第六位。名单中还包括了据称与张成泽关系密切的朝鲜副总理卢斗哲(Ro Du-chol)，令最近韩国的一些报道变得不可信起来，这些报道称卢斗哲可能在张成泽落马后选择逃亡，以躲避一场范围越来越大的政治清洗行动。
Mr. Jang, 67, long considered to be the North’s No. 2 man and Kim Jong-un’s mentor, was executed on Thursday, the North announced, for plotting to overthrow Mr. Kim’s government. North Korea also indicated that it was purging those close to Mr. Jang, who was accused of building a network of followers in the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea, the government and the Korean People’s Army.
长期以来，现年67岁的张成泽一直被认为是朝鲜的二号人物和金正恩的导师。朝鲜政府宣布，张成泽因叛国罪于周四被处决。朝鲜还表示，将清洗与张成泽关系密切的人。张成泽被指在执政党朝鲜劳动党、朝鲜政府和朝鲜人民军(North Korean People's Army)中扶植自己的势力。
Mr. Jang and his wife had been widely seen as parentlike figures for Kim Jong-un, helping their nephew establish himself as the supreme leader. As Mr. Jang’s purge unfolded in past weeks, Ms. Kim’s name has also disappeared from North Korean news media, prompting speculation over her fate.
外界普遍认为，张成泽和他的妻子对于金正恩是家长式的人物，一直在帮助他树立作为最高领袖的权威。过去几周，张成泽遭到清洗的消息传出后，金敬姬的名字也从朝鲜媒体上消失了，这引发了外界对金敬姬命运的猜测。
Typically, the entire extended family of a traitor is executed or sent to a prison camp in North Korea, but analysts have said that Kim Jong-un would be likely to spare Ms. Kim. She is the only sister of Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, who ruled North Korea before him.
一般来说，朝鲜叛国者的整个大家族都会被处决，或关进朝鲜的劳改营，但分析人士说，金正恩可能会对金敬姬网开一面。金敬姬是金正恩的父亲、朝鲜上一位统治者金正日(Kim Jong-il)唯一的妹妹。
Diminutive, frail and reportedly sick, Ms. Kim, 67, seldom appeared in public during her brother’s rule. But after his death, she raised her public profile, assuming more titles, accompanying Kim Jong-un during his public appearances and attending meetings where he has presided.
身材瘦小、形容枯槁的金敬姬今年67岁，据报道称身体欠佳，在他哥哥执政期间很少露面。但是在金正日去世之后，她扩大了公众影响力，担任了更多职务，并在金正恩公开露面时陪同左右，多次参加金正恩主持的会议。
Sitting erect and grim-faced in an oversize chair, she had been the only female face in the North Korean leadership that is filled with uniformed generals.
面无表情、僵硬地坐在一张超大椅子上的金敬姬，是朝鲜领导班子中唯一的女性面孔。朝鲜领导班子的画面中多数是穿着军装的军事将领。
Analysts have seen her as a regent helping to guide her nephew through the North’s treacherous internal politics to ensure a smooth generational change in her family’s dynasty. But her true status and her relationship with her husband had always been a subject of speculation.
分析人士一直把她看做是朝鲜的摄政王，在朝鲜云谲波诡的内政中为金正恩提供指导，确保金氏王朝顺利完成朝代更迭。但是，金敬姬的地位以及她与丈夫的关系究竟如何，一直众说纷纭。
Some analysts said that her value to Mr. Kim was largely symbolic: She was his eldest surviving blood relative, one of the links Mr. Kim had to his grandfather, the North’s founding president, Kim Il-sung, whose godlike status among North Koreans helped legitimize Mr. Kim’s own rule. After Mr. Jang’s execution, the North’s state news media exhorted its people to stay loyal to the “blood line” that Mr. Kim inherited from his father and his grandfather.
一些分析人士说，金敬姬对金正恩的价值很大程度上是象征性的：她目前是金正恩最年长的血亲，也是金正恩与其祖父、朝鲜开国领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)的关联之一。正是因为金日成在朝鲜民众中的神圣地位，帮助金正恩确立了他统治朝鲜的正当性。在张成泽被处决后，朝鲜国有媒体告诫朝鲜民众，要继续效忠于金正恩从他父亲和祖父那里世袭的血统。
Even before Mr. Jang’s downfall, analysts in South Korea had speculated that he had been estranged from his wife. The couple’s only child, a daughter, committed suicide in France in 2006, according to the South Korean news media. In a party meeting on Dec. 8 that condemned Mr. Jang as a traitor, he was called a depraved and corrupt womanizer.
甚至在张成泽倒台前，就有韩国的分析人士猜测，张成泽已经和妻子形同陌路。据韩国媒体报道，他们的独生女儿2006年在法国自杀。在12月8日宣布张成泽为叛国者的党代会上，张成泽被指“道德败坏、生活腐败、玩弄女性”。
Yoon Sang-hyun, a deputy floor leader of the governing Saenuri Party in South Korea, told reporters on Dec. 8 that Ms. Kim had been “separated” from Mr. Jang and did not oppose his purge. North Korea has purged top officials and family members of the leader before, but it was highly unusual for the government to reveal the execution of one of them to the public. Analysts remained divided over whether it was a sign of instability or a demonstration of confidence on Mr. Kim’s part.
韩国执政党新国家党(Saenuri Party)在议会的副领袖尹相铉(Yoon Sang-hyun)12月8日告诉记者，金敬姬已经和张成泽“分开”，没有对清洗张成泽提出反对。朝鲜以前也曾经清洗过高官和他们的家庭成员，但很少主动向公众披露官员被处决的信息。对于此事是意味着朝鲜政局的动荡，还是证明了金正恩的自信，分析人士仍莫衷一是。
Secretary of State John Kerry condemned the execution of Mr. Kim’s uncle in extraordinarily strong and personal language.
美国国务卿约翰·克里(John Kerry)用极其强烈而个人化的语言对张成泽被处决进行了谴责。
“It tells us a lot about, first of all, how ruthless and reckless he is, and it also tells us a lot about how insecure he is,” Mr. Kerry said in an interview with the ABC News program “This Week” that was broadcast on Sunday but taped before Mr. Kerry left on an Asian trip.
在接受美国广播公司新闻网(ABC News)《本周》(This Week)节目采访时，克里说，“首先，这充分显示了金正恩是多么残忍和鲁莽，也在很大程度上显示出他是多么没有安全感。”该节目于上周日播出，是在克里的亚洲之行前录制的。
Mr. Kerry acknowledged the difficulty of assessing the deeply opaque North Korean government. But he said there was sufficient evidence to view Mr. Kim as “spontaneous, erratic, still worried about his place in the power structure and maneuvering to eliminate any potential kind of a adversary or competitor.”
克里承认，要评价极其不透明的朝鲜政府很难。但是他说，仍然有足够证据证明，金正恩“冲动、不稳定，仍然担心自己在权力架构中的地位，密谋消除任何潜在的对手或竞争者”。
The secretary of state said the recent developments underscored the urgency of efforts to denuclearize North Korea. His language, however, did not seem likely to lure North Korea to closer cooperation. Mr. Kim, he said, leads a “ruthless, horrendous dictatorship.”
克里说，最近的事件突显了朝鲜去核化的紧迫性。不过，他的语言似乎无助于劝说朝鲜采取更紧密的合作。他说，金正恩领导着一个“残忍、恐怖的独裁政权”。
Separately, Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said the execution not only sent a worrisome message about Mr. Kim, but should also severely embarrass China, North Korea’s closest ally.
另一方面，亚利桑那州共和党参议员约翰·麦凯恩(John McCain)说，这次处决不仅传递出有关金正恩的令人担心的信息，而且还应该会让朝鲜最亲密的盟友中国感到非常尴尬。
“I think it’s very obvious this young man is capable of some very aberrational behavior, and given the toys that he has, I think it’s very dangerous,” Mr. McCain said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “You would think that the Chinese would understand that, as well.”
麦凯恩在CNN的《美国国情》(State of the Union)节目中说，“我认为，显然，这名年轻人能够做出一些非常规的举动，考虑到他所拥有的工具和手段，我认为这非常危险。中国也应该明白这里点。”
“They’ve got to rein this young man in — and they can.” Vice Marshal Choe Ryong-hae, the top political officer in the Korean People’s Army, is now considered the North’s second most influential man after Mr. Jang’s execution.
“他们必须控制住这名年轻人——他们可以做到这一点。”在张成泽被处决之后，朝鲜人民军最高政治领袖崔龙海(Choe Ryong-hae)次帅现在被认为是在朝鲜影响力第二大的人物。
But “in the feudalistic Stalinist system of North Korea, even Choe Ryong-hae is nothing more than a ‘disciple or warrior of the leader’ who can be dismissed overnight,” said Cheong Seong-chang, a researcher on the North Korean political system at Sejong Institute in South Korea, citing the fates of some of the people who were each previously known as the No. 2 man in North Korea.
不过，韩国世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)朝鲜政治制度研究员郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)提到了朝鲜政权以往的一些著名的“二号人物”的命运，他说，“在朝鲜斯大林式的封建体制下，即使是崔龙海也只不过是‘领导人的门徒或战士’，随时可能被除掉。”