SEOUL, South Korea — When North Korea held a state funeral for its leader, Kim Jong-il, in 2011, one son was conspicuously absent.
韩国首尔——当2011年朝鲜为其领导人金正日举行国葬时，一个儿子的缺席引人注意。
The absence of Kim Jong-nam — the eldest son of the family, who was bound by Korean tradition to preside over the funeral — was all the evidence outside analysts needed to see how isolated he had become from the center of power in North Korea, the world’s most secretive regime.
按照韩国传统，需由金家的长子金正男来主持葬礼，但他缺席了，外界的分析人士仅凭这一个证据就能看出金正男被隔离在朝鲜权力中心之外的程度，朝鲜是世界上最神秘的政权。
Never fully accepted into his family, sidelined by his powerful stepmother and haunted by fears of assassins, Mr. Kim lived much of his life wandering abroad from Moscow to Geneva, Beijing, Paris and Macau.
金正男从未被自己的家庭完全接受，权力很大的继母把他排除在核心之外，他被遭受暗杀的恐惧所困扰，一生大部分时间在国外度过，往返于莫斯科、日内瓦、北京、巴黎，以及澳门之间。
On Monday, Mr. Kim, 45, met his end at Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Malaysia. According to the National Intelligence Service of South Korea, he was poisoned by two women who appeared to be carrying out an assassination order from Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. Mr. Kim died on his way to the hospital. A woman was arrested in the killing on Wednesday.
周一，45岁的金正男在马来西亚吉隆坡的国际机场结束了生命。据韩国国家情报局说，他是被两名女子毒死的，这两名女子似乎是在执行来自朝鲜首都平壤的暗杀令。金正男死在去医院的路上。周三，一名女子因谋杀罪被逮捕。
It remained uncertain whether Mr. Kim was traveling alone and whether any bodyguards were present. It was also unclear how many people were involved in the attack and whether airport cameras captured the episode on camera.
目前尚不清楚金正男是否是一个人旅行，身边是否有保镖。也不清楚有多少人参与了暗杀行动，以及机场的摄像头是否捕捉到了现场的情景。
Grainy footage released on Wednesday showed a woman suspected of being one of the assassins, who appeared to be of Asian descent and wore a shirt emblazoned with “LOL” in large letters, before she fled the airport.
周三发布的低分辨率视频片段显示了一名被怀疑是刺客之一的女子逃离机场前的样子，她看上去是亚洲血统，穿着印有大写字母“LOL”的衬衫。
The Royal Malaysia Police announced late Wednesday afternoon that they had arrested a woman about 8:20 a.m. and that she was carrying a Vietnamese passport in Terminal 2, where the attack occurred. They said she was “positively identified” from closed-circuit video. She was alone at the time of her arrest. The police statement gave no explanation for her being in the same terminal.
马来西亚皇家警察在周三下午晚些时候宣布，他们在上午8点20分逮捕了一名女子，她持越南护照，正在2号航站楼，暗杀就是在该航站楼发生的。警方说，已通过闭路视频“绝对确认了”她就是视频中的人。她被捕时是单独一人。警方的声明未对她为何仍在同一航站楼作出解释。
She was identified as Doan Thin Hoang, 28, according to the inspector general of the police, Khalid Abu Bakar.
据警察总长卡立德·阿布·巴卡(Khalid Abu Bakar)说，该女子的名字叫黄端善（Doan Thin Hoang音），现年28岁。
At Terminal 2 on Wednesday, no markers or police tape were present to indicate that there had been a murder.
周三，在2号航站楼没有看到任何表明这里发生过一起谋杀案的标记或警戒线。
Airport workers who had seen Mr. Kim said on Wednesday that they had been ordered not to discuss the case.
看见过金正男的机场工作人员周三说，上面命令他们不得讨论这个案件。
South Korea’s acting president, Hwang Kyo-ahn, said Wednesday that his government was working with the Malaysian authorities to find the killers. But officials here quickly pointed fingers at Mr. Kim’s half brother, the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, who has executed a number of senior officials, including his own uncle, who have been deemed a potential challenge to his authority.
韩国代理总裁黄京安周三表示，韩国政府正在与马来西亚当局一起寻找杀人者。不过，首尔的官员已很快就把金正男的同父异母弟弟、朝鲜领导人金正恩指为罪魁祸首，金正恩已经处死了几名高级官员，其中包括自己的姑父，因为姑父被认为对金氏权威有潜在的挑战。
Ever since Kim Jong-un succeeded his father in 2011, “there has been a standing order” to assassinate his half brother, Lee Byung-ho, the director of the South’s National Intelligence Service, said during a closed-door briefing at the National Assembly, according to lawmakers who attended it.
据参加了那次会议的立法者透露，韩国国家情报局局长李炳镐（Lee Byung-ho，音）在国民大会的一次闭门通报会上说，自从2011年金正恩成为父亲的继承人以来，一直有一个“永久性命令”，要求刺杀他同父异母的哥哥。
“This is not a calculated action to remove Kim Jong-nam because he was a challenge to power per se, but rather reflected Kim Jong-un’s paranoia,” Mr. Lee was quoted as saying.
人们引用李炳镐的话说：“这并不是出于金正男本人对权力构成挑战的考虑而采取的行动，而是反映了金正恩的多疑。”
Kim Jong-un wanted his half brother killed, Mr. Lee said, and there was an assassination attempt against him in 2012. Mr. Kim was so afraid of assassins that he even begged for his life in a letter to his half brother in 2012.
李炳镐说，金正恩一直想杀死自己同父异母的哥哥，2012年曾有过一次未遂的暗杀。金正男害怕被刺杀到了一种程度，以至于他甚至在2012年给自己同父异母的弟弟写信，求他饶命。
“Please withdraw the order to punish me and my family,” Mr. Kim was quoted as saying in the letter. “We have nowhere to hide. The only way to escape is to choose suicide.”
金正男在信中写道，“请撤销那个惩罚我和我家人的命令吧。我们没有藏身之地。唯一能躲避的方法就是选择自杀。”
Mr. Lee said Kim Jong-nam had no power base inside North Korea, where Kim Jong-un had swiftly established his monolithic rule with what the South called a reign of terror.
李炳镐说，金正男在朝鲜内部没有权力基础，金正恩用韩国称为恐怖统治的手法迅速建立了自己的独裁统治。
Kim Jong-nam had arrived in Malaysia last week, Mr. Lee said. He was in line at the airport to check in for a Macau-bound flight on Monday morning when he was attacked by the two women, Mr. Lee said, citing closed-circuit TV footage from the airport. The women fled the airport in a taxi but were still believed to be in Malaysia, Mr. Lee said.
金正男上周来到马来西亚，李炳镐说。李炳镐引用机场安全监控录像拍摄的片断说，金正男周一上午在机场排队等待办理前往澳门航班的值机手续时，受到两名女子的袭击。李炳镐说，女子乘坐出租车逃离了机场，但据认仍在马来西亚。
If North Korea’s involvement is proved, the United States could face intense international pressure to put the country back on its list of terrorism-sponsoring countries, said Cheong Seong-chang, an analyst at the Sejong Institute, a think tank in South Korea.
如果事实证明朝鲜参与了暗杀的话，美国可能会面临强大的国际压力，把朝鲜重新列入支持恐怖主义国家的名单，韩国智库世宗研究所的分析师郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)说。
North Korea was first put on the terrorism list after the South caught a woman from the North who confessed to planting a bomb on a South Korean airliner that exploded over the Indian Ocean near Myanmar in 1987. The North was taken off the list in 2007 as part of a deal aimed at ending its nuclear program.
朝鲜第一次上支持恐怖主义国家名单是1987年，那之前，韩国逮捕了一名来自朝鲜的女子，她承认在一架韩国飞机上放置了炸弹，该飞机在缅甸附近爆炸。2008年，在达成了一项旨在结束其核计划的协议后，朝鲜被从该名单上拿掉。
South Korea’s military plans to use loudspeakers along the shared Korean border to inform North Koreans of Mr. Kim’s killing and their government’s brutality, a South Korean news agency, Yonhap, reported on Wednesday. The Defense Ministry declined to confirm the report.
据韩国通讯社韩联社周三报道，韩国军队打算在韩朝边界线上，用扬声器让朝鲜人民知道金正男被杀一事、以及朝鲜政府的暴行。韩国国防部拒绝确认报道中的说法。