SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, put himself in charge of a new governing agency created during a meeting of his country’s rubber-stamp parliament, the Supreme People’s Assembly, on Wednesday.
韩国首尔——朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)将自己置于一个新的执政机关的领导人之位。在朝鲜例行公事的立法机构朝鲜最高人民会议于周三举行的会议上，该机构得以成立。
The Assembly revised North Korea’s Constitution to create what the state media called a Commission on State Affairs, with Mr. Kim as its chairman. It replaces the National Defense Commission, the most powerful governing organ under Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, who ruled North Korea until his death in 2011.
最高人民会议修改了朝鲜的宪法，以便成立被其官方媒体称为国务委员会(Commission on State Affairs)的机构，并由金正恩任委员长。该机构取代了金正恩的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)执政时期朝鲜的最高统治机构国防委员会(National Defense Commission)。在2011年去世之前，金正日一直担任朝鲜最高领导人。
Mr. Kim’s new title was the latest in a series of top leadership roles in the military, party and government that he has acquired to establish his one-man rule.
金正恩的这一新头衔，是他为确立自己的一人专制而在朝鲜军方、党内和政府内获取的一系列最高领导职位中的最新一个。
Before his death, Kim Jong-il ruled North Korea as chairman of the National Defense Commission. Although the commission was originally created to oversee military affairs, he used it as his primary governing agency under his “military first” policy, which focused on the development of nuclear weapons and promoted the priorities of the Korean People’s Army in economic and other policy decisions.
去世之前，金正日以国防委员会第一委员长的身份统治朝鲜。尽管该机构最初成立是为了负责军事领域，他却按照自己的“先军”政策将它作为主要的统治机构。“先军”政策专注于研发核武器，在经济和其他政策决策中优先考虑朝鲜人民军的利益。
Since taking power, Kim Jong-un has engineered a series of purges and filled the top posts in the party and military with loyalists, regaining influence over the military.
自掌权以来，金正恩实施了一系列清洗行动，安排效忠于自己的人填补了党内和军方的高层职位，恢复了对军方的影响力。
Compared with the military-oriented National Defense Commission, the newly created commission is broader, including key party and cabinet figures as members.
相比于以军事为导向的国防委员会，新成立的国务委员会涵盖面更广，其成员包括党和内阁的核心人物。
In the congress of the Workers’ Party in May, Mr. Kim was appointed chairman, a new post created to replace the title of general secretary that his father had held when he was the party boss.
在今年5月举行的劳动党全国代表大会上，金正恩被任命为委员长。这是一个新职位，用以替代他父亲作为党内最高领导时使用的总书记头衔。