SEOUL, South Korea — Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader who has been absent from public view for more than a month, skipped an important annual ritual on Friday, a development likely to fuel further speculation about his whereabouts and even about his grip on power.
韩国首尔——从公众视野中消失已一月有余的朝鲜最高领导人金正恩，周五未在一个重要的年度仪式上露面，这个情况可能会助长对有关他的行踪、甚至对他权力掌控的进一步猜测。
Friday was the 69th anniversary of the founding of the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea. Since taking over the top leadership position following the death of his father, the longtime ruler Kim Jong-il, in late 2011, Mr. Kim had marked the beginning of this important national holiday by leading top military and party officials to pay a midnight visit to the Kumsusan mausoleum in Pyongyang. By tradition, such a visit would have taken place at midnight Thursday.
周五是朝鲜执政党劳动党成立69周年纪念日。自从长期统治朝鲜的金正日在2011年底逝世，金正恩从父亲那里继承了最高领导人的位置后，他每年都会在这个重要的全国节日前的午夜，率领军队和党的高级官员前往平壤锦绣山瞻仰陵墓，以标志纪念日的开始。按照惯例，这个活动原本应该在周四夜间进行。
But on Friday, the North’s state-run Korean Central News Agency did not list Mr. Kim among the top officials who had paid tribute at the gigantic Kumsusan Palace of the Sun, where the mummified bodies of Mr. Kim’s father and his grandfather, the founding president of North Korea, Kim Il-sung, lie in state. The mausoleum is among the most sacred places in the country, which is ruled with a personality cult surrounding the Kim family, and a visit there during a national holiday is an important leadership ritual.
但是在周五，国家媒体朝鲜中央通讯社给出的前往锦绣山瞻仰巨大的太阳宫的官员名单中，没有金正恩的名字，金正日的父亲和祖父、朝鲜创建者金日成制成木乃伊的尸体安放在太阳宫陵墓。这个陵墓是朝鲜最神圣的地方之一，朝鲜统治的核心是对金氏家族的个人崇拜，在国家节日瞻仰此地是一个重要的领导仪式。
During the party anniversary last year, Mr. Kim and his wife, Ri Sol-ju, also attended the performance of a national choir and the dedication ceremonies of new buildings. As of Friday evening, there was no report from the North of Mr. Kim’s having done the same this year.
在去年的建党周年纪念日，金正恩和夫人李雪主还观看了国家合唱团的表演，并参加了新建筑物的揭幕仪式。截至周五傍晚，朝鲜的新闻报道中没有金正恩今年参加类似活动的报道。
But the North Korean news agency indicated that Mr. Kim remained in control, saying that a basket of flowers sent by him had been placed before the statues of his father and his grandfather.
不过朝鲜通讯社说，金正恩送的花篮已被放置在其父亲和祖父的塑像前，这意味着金正恩仍在掌权。
On Friday, the North’s main party newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, carried a full front-page editorial calling for the “monolithic leadership” of Mr. Kim as “the only center” of power. The paper carried a large photo of Mr. Kim’s father and grandfather standing together on the front page, but no image of the current leader.
周五，朝鲜主要的党报《劳动新闻》在头版发表社论，号召以金正恩“坚石般的领导”为权力的“唯一核心”。该报还在头版刊登了金正恩父亲和祖父站在一起的大幅照片，但是没有现任领导人的照片。
In Seoul, Lim Byeong-cheol, a government spokesman, said South Korea believed that Mr. Kim’s rule was “functioning normally.” He added that a delegation of top North Korean officials that visited the South on Saturday had relayed Mr. Kim’s greetings to President Park Geun-hye.
韩国政府发言人林炳哲在首尔表示，韩国认为金正恩的统治“运转正常”。他补充说，朝鲜高级官员代表团上周六访问韩国时，曾转达了金正恩对朴槿惠的问候。
Speculation about Mr. Kim’s status has been growing in recent weeks, with the North Korean media having reported no public appearance by him since Sept. 3, when he was said to have attended a music concert. His father often disappeared from the public eye for weeks at a time. But this was the longest disappearance for Mr. Kim, who had appeared to be bolstering his youthful leadership with frequent visits to factories and farms.
对金正恩目前状况的各种猜测在最近几周层出不穷，朝鲜媒体自9月3日以来没有过他公开露面的报道，他在那天出席了一场音乐会。他的父亲也曾经常一连几周从公众视野中消失。不过，这是金正恩最长时间的消失，此前他似乎用频繁视察工厂和农场的方式，来增强自己年轻有为的领导人形象。
Speculation further escalated after the state-run Korean Central Television confirmed late last month that Mr. Kim was “not feeling well” and showed him limping during a visit to a factory in August. Mr. Kim was first seen limping on North Korean television in July.
朝鲜国家电视台上月底证实金正恩“身体感觉不适”、显示了他在八月份视察一家工厂时一瘸一拐地走路后，猜测进一步升级。首次在朝鲜电视上看到金正恩跛足是在七月份。
While he was absent from public view, Mr. Kim continued his work, sending letters to young party cadets and workers, according to the North Korean media, which is, as usual, filled with hagiographical propaganda for Mr. Kim.
据朝鲜媒体报道，虽然金正恩从公众视野中消失了，但他仍在继续工作，他给党的年轻学员和工作人员发过信，像往常一样，朝鲜媒体仍充满了吹捧金正恩的宣传。
South Korean officials and analysts have said that the young and obese North Korean leader may be suffering from health problems, such as gout or sciatica. His forebears were also overweight and were said to have ailments attributed to their luxurious lifestyles, such as diabetes. One Seoul-based website run by defectors from North Korea who said they had secret informers within the country has recently reported that much of Mr. Kim’s daily duties had been taken over by his younger sister, Kim Yo-jong, while Mr. Kim was going through extensive treatment, with the help of foreign doctors, for health issues caused by his “excessive eating and drinking.”
韩国官员和分析人士说，年轻且肥胖的朝鲜领导人可能出了健康问题，比如痛风或坐骨神经痛。他的前辈们也有体重问题，据说也患有与他们奢华生活方式有关的疾病，比如糖尿病。一个由朝鲜叛逃者在首尔建立的网站表示，他们在朝鲜境内有秘密信息员，该网站近日报道，金正恩的许多日常工作已由他的妹妹金与正接管，而金正恩正在外国医生的帮助下接受全面治疗，他的健康问题与“过量进食和饮酒”有关。
It is widely believed among outside analysts that Mr. Kim deliberately gained weight to resemble his late grandfather, a godlike figure among North Koreans. Mr. Kim, already rotund by the time he took power, has recently gained more weight, according to recent television footage from the North.
外部分析人士普遍认为，金正恩特意让自己的体重增加，以便更像他已故的祖父，在朝鲜人眼里，金日成的形象是神圣的。金正恩上台时已经体型圆胖，从朝鲜最近的电视片断来看，他最近体重又增长了不少。
But on the Internet, bloggers went further, spreading rumors, with no corroborating evidence, that Mr. Kim, who is widely believed to be about 30 although his government has never revealed his age, might have been sidelined by a coup engineered by some of the old disgruntled generals.
然而在互联网上，博客写手们编出的故事更离奇，虽然朝鲜政府从未透露过金正恩的年龄，但人们广泛认为他的年龄在30岁上下，有些博主不管是否有支持的证据，散布谣言说，金正恩可能已经被一些不满的老将军策划的政变推翻。
Kim Yong-hyun, a North Korea expert at Dongguk University in Seoul, dismissed those rumors and said he believed that Mr. Kim’s trouble was “not political but orthopedic.” He said that the North Korean leader had reasons to want to show up on Friday, such as a need to dispel the rumors and show that he was in control.
首尔东国大学的朝鲜问题专家金容铉不理睬这些谣言，表示他相信金正恩的问题“不是政治的，而是骨头的”。他说，这位朝鲜领导人有理由要在周五露面，比如这样做可以消除谣言、表明他仍掌权。
“But there is also a chance that he won’t really bother to show up,” Professor Kim said before the ceremony. After all, this year was the 69th anniversary of the party, not the 70th, for which North Korea was expected to mark with far bigger ceremonies than usual, including a military parade, as it did during the 60th and 65th anniversaries, he said.
“但也一种可能性是他真懒得露面，”金容铉在纪念日仪式之前说。他说，毕竟，今年是建党69周年，而不是70周年，朝鲜预计将为70周年庆典举行比平常更大的仪式，包括阅兵式，如其在60周年和65周年时举行的那样。
Analysts cautioned that even if the leader did not make a midnight visit to the Kumsusan mausoleum this year, it should not be seen as too unusual. Mr. Kim’s father, during his rule, often skipped a visit to the mausoleum during the party anniversary.
分析人士警告说，尽管这位领导人今年没在午夜前往锦绣山陵墓，这并不该被看作是很不寻常。金正恩的父亲在其统治期间，也经常在建党周年之际不瞻仰陵墓。
But the longer Mr. Kim’s absence, the more elaborate and wild the rumors may become.
但是金正恩消失得越久，谣言可能会变得越离奇、越疯狂。
Cheong Seong-chang, an analyst at the research organization Sejong Institute in South Korea, saw no immediate challenge to the rule of Mr. Kim, who had engineered purges and reshuffles in the top military and party ranks to fill them with people loyal to him.
韩国研究机构世宗研究所的分析师昌晟昌认为，没有对金正恩统治的直接挑战，金正恩已经对军队和党的上层进行了清洗，对人员做了调整，换上了忠诚于自己的人。