North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, was re-elected as head of his country’s top governing agency as its rubber-stamp Parliament met in Pyongyang on Wednesday to help consolidate his power.
朝鲜的橡皮图章式议会周三在平壤召开会议，以协助该国领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)巩固权力，金正恩在会上再次当选为最高统治机构的首脑。
Mr. Kim’s re-election as first chairman of the National Defense Commission indicated that he remained firmly in control in the North despite tightened United Nations sanctions and political upheavals that have rocked the government. Since taking over the reins of power following the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in late 2011, Mr. Kim has engineered a series of purges, sidelining many military leaders and members of the ruling Workers’ Party elite. Last December, he executed Jang Song-thaek, his uncle, who had long been presumed to be the second most influential man in Pyongyang.
金正恩再次当选朝鲜国防委员会(National Defense Commission)第一委员长一事表明，尽管联合国加强了制裁，朝鲜政府也遭到政治动乱的冲击，但他依然牢牢掌控着朝鲜。金正恩在其父金正日(Kim Jong-il)2011年末去世后接掌大权，此后发动了一系列清洗活动，许多军方领导人和执政党劳动党(Workers’ Party)的精英人物都被排挤出局。去年12月，金正恩处决了自己的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)，后者曾长期被视为平壤的二号人物。
Mr. Kim revamped the Supreme People’s Assembly early last month by calling a general election in which state-appointed candidates ran unopposed and all the deputies won their seats with 100 percent support. On Wednesday, the legislature met in Pyongyang in a session widely seen as a formality in which Mr. Kim would fill key governing posts left vacant by his purges with younger cadres who would owe their loyalty directly to him.
上月月初，金正恩下令举行大选，调整了最高人民会议(Supreme People’s Assembly)的人事。在那次选举中，官方指定的候选人都没有遭到任何反对，所有代表全票当选。周三，该立法机构在平壤召开会议。这次会议被广泛视为一个过场，金正恩将借此让更年轻的干部填补他的清洗活动造成的关键领导职位空缺，这些干部将直接效忠于他。
In a parliamentary session two years ago, Mr. Kim assumed the top leadership role at the National Defense Commission, which had emerged as the North’s main governing agency under his father.
在两年前的一次议会会议上，金正恩成为了国防委员会的最高领导人。在他父亲统治期间，国防委员会发展成了朝鲜的主要统治机构。
Mr. Kim’s re-election to the post on Wednesday reflected “the unchanged will of the military and the people to uphold and follow the respected marshal as the only center of solidarity and leadership,” said the North’s state-run Korean Central News Agency, or K.C.N.A., citing Mr. Kim’s military rank.
官方的朝鲜中央通讯社（Korean Central News Agency，简称KCNA）称，金正恩于周三再次当选该职务，体现出“全体人民军官兵和全国人民忠诚不渝地支持和跟随尊敬的元帅，拥护他为唯一的团结和领导核心”。元帅是金正恩的军衔。
On the eve of the parliamentary gathering, the Political Bureau of the Workers’ Party met on Tuesday to discuss organizational issues, the K.C.N.A. reported without elaborating. The Political Bureau was last appointed in April 2012, when Mr. Kim was going through a sensitive transition into power. A few key bureau members, including Mr. Jang, have since been toppled and were probably replaced during the meeting on Tuesday. Personnel decisions made at the back-to-back party and parliamentary meetings this week will provide outside analysts with a glimpse into who is rising and falling in Mr. Kim’s world. His rise to power has been marked by frequent purges and reshuffles in the party and among military elites as Mr. Kim has tried to put his stamp on the new leadership lineup.
朝中社报道称，此次议会会议前夕，劳动党政治局(Political Bureau)在周二举行会议，讨论了组织事宜。不过，报道并没有详细介绍会议情形。政治局上一次召开会议是在2012年4月，当时金正恩正处于敏感的政权交接期。自那之后，包括张成泽在内的几名政治局核心成员都已遭到清洗，他们的位置很可能会在周二的会议上被填补。本周接连召开的朝鲜劳动党会议和最高人民会议做出的人事任免决定，将让外界分析人士有机会窥视金正恩圈子里的人事起落。金正恩一直在设法巩固对新的领导阵容的掌控，他集中权力的过程伴随着对党内及军界权贵的频繁清洗和洗牌。
In the North Korean Constitution, the Parliament has the power to replace cabinet ministers and members of the National Defense Commission, where Mr. Jang had been a senior member. It also adopts guidelines on key policy issues, such as the North’s nuclear weapons development.
根据朝鲜宪法，最高人民会议有权更换内阁部长和国防委员会委员，张成泽曾是国防委员会的资深委员。最高人民会议还通过了关于一些核心政策议题的指导方针，比如朝鲜的核武器研发方针。
During the party meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Kim also proposed working to improve the people’s living standards and “protect the dignity and independence of the nation,” a phrase the North often uses when referring to its efforts to strengthen its nuclear arsenal.
在周二举行的劳动党会议上，金正恩还提出要努力改善人民生活标准，“捍卫国家尊严和民族独立”。提到加强核武器库的各项举措时，朝鲜常常会使用这一措辞。
The K.C.N.A. did not elaborate. But the North has recently warned that it could carry out a “new form of nuclear test.”
朝中社没有透露详细情况。不过，朝鲜最近警告称，它可能会进行“新型核试验。”
Almost exactly a year ago, Mr. Kim presided over a Workers’ Party meeting to adopt a “new strategic line” that defied warnings from Washington. The party said North Korea must continue expanding its nuclear arsenal while working to rebuild its economy. It called the North’s nuclear weapons “the nation’s life” and “not a political bargaining chip.”
差不多刚好是一年前，金正恩主持召开了一次劳动党会议，通过了公然藐视美国警告的“新战略方针”。劳动党当时表示，朝鲜必须继续扩大核武器库，同时努力重建经济。劳动党称，朝鲜的核武器是“国家的生命”，“绝不是政治筹码”。
The North’s Parliament quickly followed through by enacting a law on “consolidating the position of nuclear weapons state.” Its nuclear energy department then said it would put all its nuclear facilities — including its operational uranium-enrichment program and reactors that were mothballed or under construction — to use in expanding the country’s nuclear weaponry.
朝鲜最高人民会议迅速贯彻此次党内会议的意图，通过了一项“巩固拥核国家地位“的法律。朝鲜核能部门随后表示，将把本国所有的核设施——包括可运转的铀浓缩项目、已封存反应堆和在建反应堆——尽数投入使用，以扩大朝鲜的核武库。