SEOUL, Southa Korea — Make that Dr. Kim Jong-un.
韩国首尔——请叫他“金正恩博士”。
North Korea has long been known for its love of titles for its leaders. Mr. Kim’s grandfather, the nation’s founder, was known as the Great Leader; his son, the Dear Leader. The country seems not yet to have decided on the same kind of moniker for Mr. Kim — settling for workaday titles like marshal of the military. But now a university in Malaysia has bestowed upon the 30-year-old leader an honorary doctorate that allows him to spruce up his title count.
众所周知，朝鲜一直以来喜欢给他们的领袖冠以光荣称号。金正恩的祖父，朝鲜的开国者，被称为“伟大领袖”；他的儿子被称为“敬爱的领袖”。这个国家似乎还没有决定为金正恩取一个类似的称号，目前只是用军队“元帅”这样平凡的称号称呼他。现在，马来西亚一所大学向这位30岁的领袖授予了“荣誉博士”头衔，让他有了更多的头衔选择。
If the North Korean state news agency has it right, the particular doctorate is perhaps as much of a surprise for those outside the isolated nation as the honor itself. Dr. Kim, it says, is now a doctor of economics. The news report does not mention that he oversees one of the world’s poorest and most dysfunctional economies.
如果朝鲜官方通讯社的报道属实的话，得主和处在这个封闭国家以外的人们对于荣誉的到来都感到同样的惊讶。报道说，金正恩现在是经济学博士。报道中没有提及的是，他领导的是全世界最贫穷、运转最糟糕的经济体之一。
The university that did the honors, a private school known by the acronym HELP, took the action as a way of “building a bridge to reach the people” of North Korea, according to the president of the university, Paul Chan. He has since come under an onslaught of criticism online for honoring a man who Western and South Korean intelligence officials say appears comfortable as the ruler of the brutal police state he inherited, and who continually defies the world’s calls to dismantle his country’s nuclear arsenal. (An announcement on the school’s Facebook page does not specify what doctorate the North Korean leader was awarded.)
授予荣誉的马来西亚精英大学是一家私立学校，该校校长陈德鸿(Paul Chan)称，这样做是建立与朝鲜之间的“连接人民的桥梁”的一种方式。紧接着，他就因为向金正恩授予荣誉学位，在网上遭到了激烈的批评。西方和韩国情报官员称，金正恩似乎乐于在他继承下来的残暴警察国家担任统治者，而且他还不断藐视全世界要求朝鲜解除核武装的呼吁。（这所大学Facebook页面上发布的声明并未说明向朝鲜领导人授予的是哪个学科的博士学位。）
The university, whose initials stand for Higher Education Learning Philosophy, elevated Mr. Kim to Dr. Kim during “a simple ceremony” in the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur this month, according to the statement by Mr. Chan on Facebook.
这所大学的英文名称“HELP”是一个缩写，意为“哲学高等教育”(Higher Education Learning Philosophy)。陈德鸿在Facebook上发布的声明中说，向金博士授予学位的“简单仪式”，是在朝鲜驻吉隆坡大使馆举行的。
The North Korean ambassador received the certificate on Mr. Kim’s behalf, and the event was covered in the propaganda-filled North Korean media, which reports acknowledgment from abroad for its leaders as proof of the adoration it says they enjoy around the world.
朝鲜大使代表金正恩接受了学位证书。充斥宣传的朝鲜媒体报道了授予学位的仪式。报道中说，外国对朝鲜领袖的认可表明，他们受到了全世界的爱戴。
One of North Korean diplomats’ main duties over the years had been persuading foreign cities and universities to give honorary degrees and citizenship to Mr. Kim’s father, Kim Jong-il, and his grandfather, Kim Il-sung. The elder Kims received such honors from schools and cities in countries like Russia and Peru.
多年以来，朝鲜外交官的主要职责之一，就是劝说外国城市和大学向金正恩的父亲金正日、祖父金日成授予荣誉市民称号或荣誉学位。二人从俄罗斯、秘鲁等国家的学校和城市得到过这样的荣誉。
“To me, the conferment of an honorary doctorate to his excellency Kim Jong-un, supreme leader of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, is building a bridge to reach the people,” Mr. Chan said, calling his school’s decision a “soft constructive” approach. The North’s Korean Central News Agency said HELP University recognized Mr. Kim’s “untiring efforts for the education of the country and the well-being of its people.”
“在我看来，向朝鲜民主主义人民共和国最高领袖金正恩阁下授予荣誉博士学位，是在建立一条连接人民的桥梁，”陈德鸿说。他说，学校的决定是一个“柔和的建设性”途径。朝鲜中央通讯社称，精英大学认可金正恩“对国家的教育，以及人民的福祉做出的不懈努力”。
When Mr. Kim inherited the leadership of the dynastic regime after his father’s death in late 2011, some outside analysts hoped that the young leader would guide his country toward openness. Under him, North Korea increased efforts to attract foreign investment, especially from China. But it has also tightened its control of the border with China, which has served as a conduit for outside information to flow into the isolated country, and has provoked the world by launching long-range rockets and conducting a nuclear test.
金正恩在其父于2011年底去世时继承了这个王朝式政权的领导大权，当时外界一些分析人士期望，这个年轻的领袖能引领国家走向开放。在他治下，朝鲜加大了吸引外国投资，尤其是中国投资的力度。但是朝鲜也加紧了对中朝边界的控制，那里是外界信息流入这个孤立国家的渠道。朝鲜还发射远程导弹、开展核试验，从而激怒了世界各国。
His father left Mr. Kim with a country in which the state’s mismanagement of the economy had helped drive a famine in the 1990s that killed hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of people.
金正恩的父亲给他留下的国家，曾在20世纪90年代爆发了一场饥荒，致使数十万乃至数百万人死亡，而促发饥荒的一个因素就是政府在经济管理上的失误。
During his first speech as leader in April 2012, Mr. Kim said that he would “never let the people tighten their belts again.” He has since introduced some changes in collective farms and factories intended to increase productivity, according to South Korean news media and recent visitors to the North. But his policy of reviving the economy while “simultaneously” strengthening the nation’s nuclear weapons programs has already set off a series of economically damaging United Nations sanctions.
金正恩担任领袖后，在2012年4月发表的第一场演讲中说，他“永远都不会再让人民勒紧裤腰带了”。韩国媒体和近期访问过朝鲜的人士表示，在那以后，他在集体农庄和工厂中推行了一些旨在提高生产力的变革。然而他一边采取重振经济的政策，“同时又”推行增强该国核武计划的举措，已经招致了打击该国经济的联合国制裁。
Despite international aid and gradual improvements in the North’s grain production in recent years, more than a quarter of North Korean children under age 5 live with chronic malnourishment, according to surveys by the United Nations and international aid groups. And having electricity remains a distant dream for much of the population.
联合国和国际援助团体开展的调查显示，尽管有国际援助，而且近些年来朝鲜粮食生产逐渐改善，但5岁以下的朝鲜儿童中，仍有超过四分之一长期营养不良。对很多朝鲜人来说，用电都还是一个遥远的梦想。
On the Facebook page of HELP University, critics have castigated the awarding of the degree. One person criticized the university for rewarding “one of the most evil men on the planet.” Another called the school “beyond HELP.” Others, though, supported the university’s initiative.
在精英大学的Facebook专页上，批评者对于颁发学位之举大加抨击。一名网友批评这所大学“向地球上最邪恶的人之一”给予回报，另一名网友称这所大学“无可救药”。不过也有人支持这所大学的举动。
But Mr. Chan said he believed North Korea would open up “in the next six years or so,” as Myanmar recently did.
但陈德鸿表示，他认为朝鲜会在“未来六年左右的时间里”对外开放，就像缅甸近些年的做法一样。
“Everyone will rush in to offer assistance and investment,” he said. “I am just a bit ahead of them.”
“所有人都会冲进去给予支持、进行投资，”他说。“我只是比他们早一些。”