HONG KONG — The former N.B.A. star Dennis Rodman has been one of the United States’ most unlikely links to North Korea, traveling repeatedly to the authoritarian state and gaining rare access to its leadership.
 香港——美国国家篮球协会(NBA)退役明星丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)是美国与朝鲜关系上最让人难以相信的联络人，他多次前往那个专制国家，并能得到与其领导人见面的罕见机会。
Now he is back, though no details have emerged of what he plans to do there. Some analysts speculated that Mr. Rodman may even be carrying a message from President Trump, who previously had praised his efforts to engage North Korea.
现在，他再次重返朝鲜，虽然没有透露他打算在那里做什么的细节。一些分析人士猜测，罗德曼甚至有可能会为特朗普总统转达口信，特朗普以前曾赞扬过罗德曼在接触朝鲜上的努力。
Mr. Rodman was seen at Beijing International Airport and flew to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, on Tuesday, CNN reported.
据CNN报道，周二有人在北京国际机场看到罗德曼登机飞往朝鲜首都平壤。
Mr. Rodman wrote Tuesday afternoon on Twitter that he had arrived in the country, saying “I’m back” and thanking “my sponsor PotCoin.com.” PotCoin offers banking services to the legal marijuana industry. One of Mr. Rodman’s earlier visits to North Korea was sponsored by an Irish gambling company.
罗德曼周二下午在Twitter上写道，他已经抵达该国，并说“我回来了”，还感谢了“我的赞助商PotCoin.com”。PotCoin为合法的大麻行业提供银行服务。罗德曼过去的一次朝鲜之行曾得到爱尔兰一家博彩公司的赞助。
Websites and marijuana magazines have portrayed North Korea as a stoner’s paradise where cannabis is legal and can be freely purchased in marketplaces, but The Associated Press, one of the few foreign news organizations with an office in Pyongyang, sought to debunk that myth in January.
大麻行业的网站和杂志把朝鲜描绘为吸食大麻者的天堂，称大麻在朝鲜合法，可以在市场上自由购买，但美联社在今年1月份曾设法戳穿这个神话，只有很少几家外国新闻机构在平壤设有办事处，美联社是其中之一。
Mr. Rodman declined to say whether he had spoken about the trip with Mr. Trump, who four years ago endorsed Mr. Rodman’s visiting North Korea.
罗德曼拒绝回答他是否曾与特朗普讨论这次旅行的问题，特朗普曾在四年前对罗德曼访问朝鲜表示支持。
“Well, I’m pretty sure he’s pretty much happy with the fact that I’m over here trying to accomplish something that we both need,” Mr. Rodman said, as reported by The A.P.
“这个嘛，我可以相当肯定地说，他对我来这里试图完成我们都需要的事情一定相当高兴，”罗德曼在美联社的报道中这样说。
Mr. Trump spoke to Fox News in 2013 about Mr. Rodman and North Korea, a year in which Mr. Rodman also appeared on his “Celebrity Apprentice” show. “Maybe Dennis is a lot better than what we have,” he said.
2013年，特朗普曾在接受福克斯新闻采访时提到罗德曼和朝鲜，罗德曼也曾在那年出现在特朗普的《名人学徒》(Celebrity Apprentice)节目中。特朗普说，“也许丹尼斯比政府里的人强得多。”
Suzanne DiMaggio, a director and senior fellow at the New America think tank who had been involved in unofficial talks with North Korea, said on Twitter that there was a “high probability” of communication between the Trump administration and Mr. Rodman.
新美国(New America)智囊团主任兼资深研究员苏珊娜·迪马吉奥(Suzanne DiMaggio)曾参加与朝鲜进行的非正式会谈，她在Twitter上表示，“有很大可能性”特朗普政府与罗德曼之间进行了沟通。
While traveling in Tokyo, Thomas A. Shannon Jr., the United States under secretary of state for political affairs, said that Mr. Rodman was not acting in any official capacity.
正在东京访问的美国国务院负责政治事务的副国务卿小托马斯·A·香农(Thomas A. Shannon Jr.)表示，罗德曼的行动不带有任何官方色彩。 
“We are aware of his visit. We wish him well, but we have issued travel warnings to Americans and suggested they not travel to North Korea for their own safety,” Mr. Shannon said.
“我们知道他的访问。我们祝他旅行愉快，但我们已经向美国人发布过旅行警告，建议他们为了自己的安全不要去朝鲜，”香农说。
The visit is the latest leg in a strange tale. In February 2013, Mr. Rodman, an N.B.A. Hall of Famer, became one of the first Americans then known to have met Kim Jong-un, who had taken over the leadership of North Korea after his father’s death in 2011. Mr. Kim, a longtime basketball fan, invited Mr. Rodman, and the two sat together while watching an exhibition game that featured three Harlem Globetrotters.
这次访问是一个奇异故事的最新一段。2013年2月，NBA名人堂入选者罗德曼，成为当时人们知道的、与金正恩见过面的第一拨美国人之一。金正恩在2011年父亲去世后成为朝鲜领导人。一直是篮球迷的金正恩邀请罗德曼访朝，他们两人同坐台上，观看了一场有三名哈林篮球队(Harlem Globetrotters)队员参加的表演赛。
Mr. Rodman returned in September 2013, when he held Mr. Kim’s newborn daughter. A few months later he made another visit with a group of former N.B.A. players.
2013年9月，罗德曼再次访朝，其间他还抱了金正恩刚出生的女儿。几个月后，他与几名NBA退役球员一起再度访问朝鲜。
Officials in President Barack Obama’s administration said they would have blocked Mr. Rodman from visiting if they had any power to do so. The N.B.A. distanced itself from the issue, and Mr. Rodman was criticized by politicians and human rights advocates for giving friendly publicity to one of the world’s most repressive states.
奥巴马总统的政府官员曾表示，如果他们有权力那样做的话，他们会阻止罗德曼访朝。美国国家蓝球协会避免介入这个问题。政治人士和人权倡导者批评罗德曼，给世界上最专制的国家之一制造了友好的宣传报道。
But he also offered up little-known details about Mr. Kim, confirming his age and his birthday, for instance. He also suggested that Mr. Obama simply pick up the phone and call the North Korean leader. The United States and North Korea do not have formal diplomatic relations, and Mr. Trump has called on China to pressure its neighbor and ally to rein in its nuclear weapons program.
但罗德曼也为人们提供了一些金正恩鲜为人知的细节，比如他的确切生日和年龄。罗德曼还给奥巴马提建议，说他只需要拿起听筒来与朝鲜领导人通电话。美国和朝鲜没有正式外交关系，特朗普已呼吁中国向其邻国和盟友施压，停止朝鲜的核武器计划。
North Korea has carried out a series of missile tests recently, and some observers raised concerns this spring that it was preparing for a sixth nuclear test. On Tuesday, South Korean military officials told reporters that a North Korean drone found last week had taken photos of a recently installed American-made antimissile system.
朝鲜最近进行了一系列的导弹试验，一些观察家今年春天对朝鲜正在准备进行第六次核试验表示担心。周二，韩国军方官员告诉记者，上周发现的一架朝鲜无人机对最近安装的美国制造的反导系统进行了拍照。
Mr. Rodman endorsed Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign in 2015 and appeared on his “Celebrity Apprentice” television show in 2009 and 2013.
罗德曼曾在2015年支持特朗普参加总统竞选，也曾在2009年和2013年两次出现在特朗普的《名人学徒》电视节目中。
Mr. Rodman has toyed with carrying out serious diplomacy in the past. He mentioned the case of Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American who had been sentenced to 15 years of hard labor in North Korea, in a 2013 interview with the celebrity news site TMZ. But he later played down any suggestion that he would lobby for Mr. Bae and disparaged him in an interview with CNN during his 2014 visit.
过去，罗德曼曾不太认真地考虑过在严肃外交问题上做点什么。2013年，罗德曼在接受名人新闻网站TMZ的采访时提到过肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)的案子，裴是韩裔美国人，被朝鲜判处了15年的劳改。但罗德曼后来淡化自己会为裴获释进行游说的建议，还在2014年访朝期间接受CNN采访时，说了贬低裴的话。
Mr. Bae, a Christian missionary who was released in November 2014, said he thought Mr. Rodman had in fact helped him, because he increased public awareness of his imprisonment.
2014年11月被朝鲜释放的裴是一名基督教传教士，他说他觉得罗德曼其实对自己有帮助，因为罗德曼让更多的人知道了他被监禁的事情。
Four Americans are now detained in North Korea, and in May the State Department elevated its travel advisory, saying it “strongly warns” Americans not to visit because of the risk of arrest and long-term detention.
仍有四名美国人目前被朝鲜关押，今年5月，美国国务院提高了旅行警告的级别，由于有被拘留和被长期关押风险，国务院“强烈警告”美国人不要去朝鲜。