KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — Two women will be charged with murder in connection with the assassination of Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half brother of the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, Malaysian officials said on Tuesday.
马来西亚吉隆坡——周二，马来西亚官员表示，与刺杀金正男有关的两名女子将受到谋杀指控，金正男是朝鲜领导人金正恩关系疏远的同父异母哥哥。
Siti Aisyah, 25, of Indonesia, and Doan Thi Huong, 28, of Vietnam, could receive the death penalty. The police said the two women rubbed a deadly nerve agent on the face of Mr. Kim as he prepared to check in for a flight at Kuala Lumpur International Airport on the morning of Feb. 13.
25岁的印度尼西亚女子西蒂·艾莎(Siti Aisyah)和28岁的越南女子段氏香（Doan Thi Huong，音）可能被判处死刑。警方说，这两名女子在金正男脸上抹了一种致命的神经毒剂，他当时正在吉隆坡国际机场准备搭乘2月13日上午的一个航班。
Word of the charges came as North Korea began a diplomatic effort to repair the damage from the killing of Mr. Kim, sending delegations to Beijing and Kuala Lumpur in a rare outreach by the reclusive nation as it faced accusations that it carried out the brazen assassination.
起诉的消息传来时，朝鲜正在展开一场外交努力，以修补金正男被杀所造成的损害，这个与世隔绝的国家罕见地派出代表团前往北京和吉隆坡，朝鲜正面临其明目张胆地执行暗杀的指控。
The two women facing charges in Mr. Kim’s murder were arrested soon after the Feb. 13 attack and have said that they thought they were participating in a prank.
在金正男的谋杀案中面临指控的两名女子，是在2月13日袭击发生之后不久被逮捕的，两人均表示，她们以为当时参与的是一场恶作剧。
The police have also arrested a North Korean man, Ri Jong-chol, and are seeking seven others. South Korean officials have accused the government of North Korea of ordering the assassination. There was no word yet on whether Malaysian officials would charge Ri Jong-chol in the attack.
警方还逮捕了一个名叫李永哲（Ri Jong-chol，音）的朝鲜人，并正在寻找另外七人。韩国官员指责朝鲜政府下令暗杀金正男。目前尚无消息表明马来西亚官员是否会就这起袭击案起诉李永哲。
With relations between Malaysia and North Korea fraying over the killing, a high-level North Korean delegation, including the former deputy ambassador to the United Nations, Ri Dong-il, arrived in the Malaysian capital to discuss taking Mr. Kim’s body to North Korea, the South Korean news agency Yonhap reported from Kuala Lumpur.
刺杀案让马来西亚与朝鲜的关系受到损害，据韩国通讯社韩联社自吉隆坡报道，为了讨论将金正男的遗体移交朝鲜事宜，一个包括前朝鲜常驻联合国副代表李东日在内的朝鲜高级代表团已抵达马来西亚首都。
Ri Dong-il, the envoy, said he also would demand the release of Ri Jong-chol, the one North Korean who has been arrested in the case, Yonhap reported.
韩联社报道说，李东日特使表示，他还将要求马来西亚释放在该案中被逮捕的唯一一名朝鲜人李永哲。
“We are here to discuss human rights issues and find an agreement,” Mr. Ri told reporters outside the North Korean Embassy.
“我们来这里讨论人权问题，并寻求达成共识，”李东日在朝鲜大使馆外对记者说。
Mr. Ri also said he would discuss “strengthening friendly relations” with Malaysia.
李东日还表示，他将与马来西亚讨论“加强友好关系”的问题。
Whether Malaysia is prepared to discuss friendly relations remains to be seen. Officials at the Malaysian Foreign Ministry declined to comment on the standoff over the release of the body and the detention of Ri Jong-chol.
马来西亚是否准备与朝鲜讨论友好关系仍有待观察。马来西亚外交部官员拒绝就移交遗体和拘留李永哲的争议发表评论。