The meeting between North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Moon Jae-in of South Korea offered a rare opportunity to hear Mr. Kim speak spontaneously, without the filter of his nation’s state news media.
朝鲜领导人金正恩与韩国总统文在寅的会晤提供了一个难得的机会，可以听到金正恩率性地讲话，而无需经过官方媒体的过滤。
While much of the discussion between the two leaders was not revealed, South Korean officials did describe some. These are among their comments during Friday’s meeting  on the South Korean side of the Demilitarized Zone.
虽然两位领导人之间的大部分讨论尚未被披露，但韩国官员描述了其中一些。这些谈话是他们于周五在非军事区韩国一方会面时发表的。
“Now you are here in the South, and I wonder when I can cross over to the North,” Mr. Moon said when Mr. Kim crossed the border and they shook hands.
“现在你在韩国，我想知道我什么时候可以跨至朝鲜，”当金正恩跨过边界，两人握手时，文在寅说。
“Why don’t you now?” Mr. Kim said.
“你为什么不现在（就跨过来）呢？”金正恩说。
He took Mr. Moon by the hand and they crossed over a low concrete slab that marks the border. They stood in North Korea, shaking hands for a few seconds, before returning to the South.
他拉着文在寅的手，和他一起越过一块低矮的混凝土界石。他们站在朝鲜，握手了几秒钟，然后回到韩国。
Mr. Kim found a moment to make light of his country’s missile and nuclear tests, which have caused such deep concern in recent years.
金正恩还调侃了朝鲜导弹和核试验，它们在近年来引发了严重关切。
“I heard you had your early-morning sleep disturbed many times because you had to attend the N.S.C. meetings because of us,” Mr. Kim said with a smile, referring to the security council. “Getting up early in the morning must have become a habit for you. I will make sure that your morning sleep won’t be disturbed.”
“我听说你因为我们（试射导弹）而好多次在凌晨被吵醒，不得不去参加国家安全会议，”金正恩微笑着说。“早起床肯定已经是你的习惯了。我将确保你的清晨睡眠不会再被打扰。”
“Now I can sleep in peace,” Mr. Moon replied.
“现在我可以安心入睡了，”文在寅回答。
In one conversation, Mr. Kim made reference to several delicate points in relations between the two sides.
在一次谈话中，金正恩提到了双方关系中的几个微妙之处。
“On my way here I saw that those who had been nervous about any shelling from the North Korean Army — including the Yeonpyeong Island residents, North Korean defectors and displaced people — do have high hopes for our meeting today,” he said.
“在我来这里的路上，我看到那些对朝鲜军队的炮弹感到紧张的人——包括延坪岛的居民、脱北者和背井离乡的人，对今天的会议寄予厚望。”他说。
Mr. Kim’s mention of Yeonpyeong Island refers to a 2010 attack from the North that killed two South Korean marines and two civilian construction workers. The “displaced people” is a reference to Korean families who were separated during the Korean War.
金正恩提到的延坪岛是指2010年朝鲜发起的一起袭击事件的发生地，该事件造成两名韩国海军陆战队员和两名平民建筑工人死亡。“背井离乡的人”指的是在朝鲜战争期间离散的家庭。
“I look forward to making the most of this opportunity so that we have the chance to heal the wounds between the North and the South,” Mr. Kim added. “The demarcation line, which is in fact not high, may disappear with many people stepping on it and passing over it.”
“我期待充分利用这个机会，让我们有机会愈合南北之间的创伤，”金正恩补充道。“分界线实际上并不高，当很多人踩上它并越过它时，它可能会消失。”
The leaders from both sides mentioned their hopes for peace.
双方领导人均提到了对和平的期望。
“I came here to put an end to the history of confrontation as well as to work shoulder to shoulder with you to tackle the obstacles between us,” Mr. Kim said. “I came with the confidence that a brighter future awaits us.”
“我来到这里，是为了结束这段对抗的历史，并与你并肩工作，来解决我们之间的障碍，”金正恩说。“我有信心，更光明的未来等待着我们。”
Mr. Moon replied: “It is the two of us who deal with the matters on the Korean Peninsula firsthand, but we should also work in concert with the world. We should take the initiative in handling our matters so that surrounding countries can follow us.”
文在寅回答说：“我们两个是直接处理朝鲜半岛问题的人，但我们也应该与世界各国并肩努力。我们应该主动处理我们的事务，以使周围的国家能够跟随我们。”
While some of the discussion touched on the violence and bloodshed on the Korean Peninsula since the start of the Korean War in 1950, the leaders tried to insert moments of levity, too.
虽然一些讨论涉及了自1950年朝鲜战争爆发以来，朝鲜半岛上的暴力和流血事件，但两位领导人也试图插入了一些轻松的时刻。
Mr. Moon described the widespread attention Mr. Kim’s sister, Kim Yo-jong, received in the South when she attended the Winter Olympics in February.
文在寅形容金正恩的妹妹金与正2月参加冬奥会时在韩国受到的广泛关注。
She “rose to stardom in South Korea,” Mr. Moon said. The delegates laughed at the comment, and Ms. Kim, who came to the South with her brother on Friday, visibly blushed, according to South Korean officials.
她“在韩国成为了明星”，文在寅说。代表们听到后笑了。金与正周五也与她的哥哥一起来到了韩国，据韩国官员称，金与正听到这一评论后明显脸红了。
Despite the significance of the meeting, some of their discussion was distinctly small talk.
尽管会议意义重大，但两位领导人也显然进行了一些闲聊。
“How did you get here?” Mr. Moon asked Mr. Kim when they first met.
“你怎么到这里来的？”刚刚见面时，文在寅问金正恩。
“I came here by car via Kaesong early this morning,” Mr. Kim replied. “You must have departed early in the morning, too.”
“我一大早乘汽车经过开城而来，”金正恩回答。“你一定也是一早就出发了。”
Mr. Moon replied, “It just took me about an hour.”
文在寅回答说：“我只花了一个小时。”