SEOUL, South Korea — The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, on Wednesday called for improving relations with South Korea and boasted of his regime’s tightened grip on power in his first public speech since the purge and execution of his uncle, Jang Song-thaek, last month.
韩国首尔——本周三，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)发表了自上月清洗并处决自己的姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)以来的首次公开演讲，呼吁改善朝韩关系，并自称加强了金家政权对权力的控制。
“North and South Korea should create a mood to improve relations,” Mr. Kim said in a nationally televised New Year’s Day speech. “It’s time to end useless slandering, and the North and the South should no longer do things that harm reconciliation and harmony.”
“要营造改善北南关系的氛围，”金正恩在全国直播的新年贺词中表示，“要结束有百害而无一利的诽谤中伤的时刻已经到了，不能再做有碍于和解与团结的事情。”
Mr. Kim began delivering a New Year’s Day speech after coming to power two years ago, reviving the practice of his grandfather Kim Il-sung. During the rule of his reclusive father, Kim Jong-il, the country’s main state-run newspapers issued a joint editorial to mark the day.
金正恩在掌权两年之后开始发表新年贺词，恢复了其祖父金日成(Kim Il-sung)的旧制。在他的父亲、深居简出的金正日统治的时代，朝鲜主要的官方报纸一贯是以发表联合社论的形式来庆贺新年。
Analysts waited for this year’s speech with unusual interest because it would be the first since the purge of Mr. Jang, long considered Mr. Kim’s mentor and the regime’s No. 2 figure. Mr. Jang was executed on Dec. 12 on charges of building a faction within the ruling Workers’ Party in a plot to overthrow Mr. Kim’s government.
分析人士怀着异乎寻常的兴趣等待今年的贺词，因为它将是金正恩在张成泽被清洗后发表的第一次公开讲话。长期以来，张成泽被认为是金正恩的导师和朝鲜政坛的二号人物。他在去年12月12日被处决，罪名是在朝鲜执政党劳动党内部拉帮结派，阴谋推翻金正恩政府。
“We took decisive actions to remove factional filth,” Mr. Kim said Wednesday in an apparent reference to the purge of Mr. Jang and his associates. “Our party has tightened its revolutionary ranks by making a timely decision to ferret out and purge the anti-party, anti-revolutionary factional clique.”
“我们党采取断然措施，铲除了隐藏在党内的宗派污泥浊水，”金正恩在周三表示，此话明显是指对张成泽及其亲信的清洗行动。“由于我们党适时作出正确的决策，揭发和肃清了反党反革命宗派集团，党和革命队伍得到进一步巩固。”
The purge was the biggest political upheaval in North Korea in recent years. Some analysts have said it indicated the further consolidation of Mr. Kim’s rule. But others speculated that he had failed to establish the kind of absolute authority that his father and grandfather wielded and that the purge signaled a power struggle in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.
此次清洗是朝鲜近年来最为重大的政治变乱。一些分析人士已表示，它意味着金正恩进一步巩固了自己的统治。不过，其他一些分析人士推测，金正恩未能建立其祖父和父亲拥有的那种绝对权威，此次清洗表明朝鲜首都平壤发生了一场权力斗争。
South Korean policy-makers have warned that North Korea may attempt military provocations against the South to build internal unity after the domestic political trouble.
韩国决策者警告称，国内政坛发生变乱后，朝鲜可能会尝试对韩国发起军事挑衅，以增进内部团结。
In his speech, Mr. Kim repeated his government’s traditional condemnation of the United States and South Korea for conducting war games on the divided Korean Peninsula. The exercises “created a situation where a trifle military skirmish can spread into a full-blown war,” he said. “If there is another war on this land, it will bring about a nuclear catastrophe, and the United States won’t escape it, either.”
金正恩在讲话重申了其政府长期以来的说辞，谴责了美国和韩国在分裂的朝鲜半岛上进行军事演习的行为。他说，军事演习“造成小小偶发的军事冲突也会引发全面战争的严重形势”。“要是在这块疆土上再次发生战争，就将会带来难以想象的核浩劫，美国也不会平安无事。”
Mr. Kim had also called for an end to “confrontation” with South Korea during his last New Year speech, after his country launched a rocket in December 2012. Washington condemned it as a test of long-range missile technology. Mr. Kim’s government further raised tensions by conducting its third underground nuclear test in February.
金正恩上一次发表新年讲话是在朝鲜于2012年12月发射一枚火箭之后，当时他也呼吁结束朝韩“对抗”状态。华盛顿方面谴责那次火箭发射是在为远程导弹技术做测试。朝鲜政府于去年2月开展了第三次地下核试验，进一步加剧了紧张局势。
In most of the first half of 2013, the North issued a torrent of threats of missile and nuclear attacks at South Korea, the United States and its bases around the Pacific. But it has since expressed a willingness to re-engage in dialogue.
在2013年上半年的大部分时间里，朝鲜发布了大量威胁言论，称要对韩国、美国及其环太平洋基地发动导弹及核攻击。不过，朝鲜后来表达了重新参与对话的意愿。
Under Mr. Kim, North Korea adopted the simultaneous development of the economy and the nuclear weapons program as a key party line. Yet years of tightening sanctions have made reviving the moribund economy even harder. South Korean intelligence officials said Mr. Jang’s purge was partly the result of a factional struggle over the spoils of the country’s few sources of foreign currency, like exports of coal.
在金正恩的领导下，朝鲜把同时发展经济与核武器项目列为党的主要路线。然而，多年来不断加强的制裁举措致使停滞不前的朝鲜经济越来越难以恢复。韩国情报官员表示，清洗张成泽的部分原因是围绕该国煤炭出口等少数外汇来源的党派纷争。
On Wednesday, Mr. Kim echoed the themes of previous New Year messages, emphasizing that improving the living standards of North Koreans and rejuvenating agriculture were main priorities. But he also reiterated a call for strengthening the military through the development of advanced weapons like drones.
周三，金正恩重申了之前的新年讲话的主题，强调提高朝鲜人民生活水平，振兴农业是首要任务。与此同时，他也再次呼吁通过研发无人机等先进武器来加强军事力量。
North Korea has often called for improved ties with the South in its New Year messages. It hopes for the return of billions of dollars of South Korean investment, aid and trade, which had flowed during an era of reconciliation between 1998 and 2008.
朝鲜经常在新年讲话中呼吁改善朝韩关系。朝鲜希望再次获得韩国提供的以十亿美元计的投资、援助及贸易资金，1998至2008年的关系和解期间，这些资金曾源源涌入朝鲜。
South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye, a conservative, says her nation will not provide aid until the North wins the South’s “trust” by moving toward denuclearization.
韩国保守派总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)表示，在朝鲜向着无核化迈进，由此赢得韩国“信任”之前，韩国不会提供援助。