One day after he seemed to suggest that an American citizen detained in North Korea might deserve his fate, the retired basketball star Dennis Rodman serenaded North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, with a chorus of “Happy Birthday, Dear Marshal,” before an exhibition game in Pyongyang on Wednesday.
周三，在平壤举行的一场表演赛开场前，退役篮球明星丹尼斯·罗德曼(Dennis Rodman)为朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)献唱，副歌中唱道，“生日快乐，尊敬的元帅”。此前一天，罗德曼似乎曾暗示说，在朝鲜被关押的一名美国居民可能是罪有应得。
According to an Associated Press report from the Pyongyang Indoor Stadium, Mr. Rodman also told the capacity crowd of 14,000 that Mr. Kim, who turned 31, “is a great leader, he provides for his people here in this country, and thank God the people here love the marshal.” The American then led a group of retired National Basketball Association players to a 47-39 loss to a North Korean squad in the first half of the exhibition game.
美联社(Associated Press)发自平壤体育馆的一篇报道称，罗德曼还对座无虚席的体育馆内的1.4万人说，金正恩“是一名伟大的领袖，他为这个国家的人民带来一切，感谢上帝，这里的人民爱戴这位元帅。”当天是金正恩31岁的生日。随后，罗德曼带领的由退役NBA球员组成的球队与一支朝鲜球队开始进行表演赛，上半场结束时，美国队以39比47落后。
The teams were mixed for the second half, which Mr. Rodman watched from the stands, sitting next to Mr. Kim. After his first meeting with Mr. Kim last year, Mr. Rodman told reporters, “I love him — the guy’s awesome.” Before tip-off, the sister of Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American who was sentenced last year to 15 years in a North Korean labor camp, expressed her disgust with comments made by Mr. Rodman about her brother in a contentious interview with CNN broadcast on Tuesday.
下半场，两国的球员混合组成了两队，罗德曼则到看台上坐在金正恩旁边观看比赛。去年与金正恩首次见面之后，罗德曼对记者说，“我喜欢他——这个家伙很棒。”然而在这场比赛的跳球之前，去年被判在朝鲜劳役营服刑15年的朝裔美国人肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)的姐姐，表达了对CNN周二播出的一场引发争议的采访中，罗德曼对她弟弟所发表评论的厌恶。
Asked during the interview if he would take the opportunity to raise Mr. Bae’s imprisonment with North Korea’s leader, Mr. Rodman suggested that the reporters who have pressed him on the issue do not “understand what Kenneth Bae did.” Before displaying his rage, Mr. Rodman asked Chris Cuomo of CNN: “Do you understand what he did? In this country?”
在采访中，当被问到是否会利用这次机会向朝鲜领导人提及肯尼斯·裴被关押的问题时，罗德曼表示，向他提这个问题的记者不“明白肯尼斯·裴做了什么”。罗德曼在表达愤怒之前问CNN的克里斯·科莫(Chris Cuomo)：“你知道他做了什么吗？在这个国家？”
In a statement sent to reporters on Wednesday, Mr. Bae’s sister Terri Chung said:
在周三发给记者的一份声明中，裴的姐姐特里·郑(Terri Chung)说：
Dennis Rodman and his friends are in the DPRK (North Korea) now, practicing “basketball diplomacy,” as he has phrased it, playing games apparently to celebrate the birthday of the supreme leader, Kim Jong-un.
丹尼斯·罗德曼和他的朋友们目前在朝鲜，用他的话说，从事“篮球外交”，他们明显是为了庆祝最高领袖金正恩的生日而进行比赛。
It is clear to me, however, that there is nothing diplomatic about his trip. My family and I are outraged by Rodman’s recent comments. He is playing games with my brother’s life. There is no diplomacy, only games, and at my brother’s expense.
然而，我非常清楚，他的访问与外交毫无关系。我和家人都被罗德曼最近的言论所激怒。他在用我弟弟的生命来比赛。没有外交，只有比赛，代价是我弟弟的生命。
During an interview on CNN, Rodman was protective of his “friend for life,” DPRK’s supreme leader Kim Jong-un. Yet Rodman became enraged when asked about my brother, the American tour operator Kenneth Bae, who is sick and has been imprisoned in the DPRK for 14 months.
在CNN播放的采访中，罗德曼处处维护他“一生的朋友”——朝鲜最高领导人金正恩。而在被问到关于我弟弟、美国导游肯尼斯·裴的问题时，罗德曼却发了火。我弟弟现在病着，已经被朝鲜关押了14个月。
Dennis Rodman could do a lot of good by advocating for Kenneth to Kim Jong-un, but instead he has decided to hurl outrageous accusations at my brother, insinuating that Kenneth has done something sinister. He is clearly uninformed about Kenneth’s case, and he is certainly not in any position to pass judgment on Kenneth Bae, who has never any hostile intentions against the DPRK.
如果丹尼斯·罗德曼在金正恩面前为肯尼斯说话，这可能会大有裨益，但他却对我弟弟做出蛮横指责，含沙射影地说我弟弟做了坏事。他显然对肯尼斯的案子并不了解，他毫无疑问也没有资格对肯尼斯·裴做出评判，而肯尼斯从未对朝鲜有过不友善的意图。
The Rodman-led trip was also denounced by the chairman of the board of the National Basketball Retired Players Association, Otis Birdsong, who said in a statement: “Under the right circumstances basketball can serve as a bridge to bring communities together, but these are not those circumstances. Standing alongside our partners at the N.B.A., we do not condone the basketball activities to be conducted in North Korea this week.”
罗德曼带队的朝鲜之行也受到了国家篮球退役球员协会(National Basketball Retired Players Association)董事会主席奥蒂斯·比尔德松(Otis Birdsong)的谴责。比尔德松在一份声明中说，“在正确的情况下，篮球可以成为联结不同群体的桥梁，但是目前的情况不属此类。与我们在NBA的伙伴们一道，我们不认可本周即将在朝鲜进行的篮球活动。”
After the game on Wednesday, one of the players who accompanied Mr. Rodman to North Korea, the former New York Knick Charles Smith, who took a more measured tone in the CNN interview, told The A.P. that he was “not totally overjoyed” by how things had worked out.
周三的比赛之后，陪同罗德曼前往朝鲜的球员之一、前纽约尼克斯队的查尔斯·史密斯(Charles Smith)在接受CNN采访时的语气要有分寸得多。他告诉美联社，他对事情的进展并不感到“非常开心”。