Perhaps one of the most intriguing details in North Korea’s announcement of the execution of Jang Song-thaek, the uncle and presumed mentor of the leader Kim Jong-un, was what its state-run media reported that Mr. Jang said while confessing to plotting to overthrow Mr. Kim’s government.
在朝鲜发布的处决张成泽的公报中，最耐人寻味的细节也许是国家媒体报道的张成泽在坦白密谋推翻金正恩政府时所说的话。张成泽是朝鲜领导人金正恩的姑父，也曾被认为是后者的良师益友。
“I was going to stage the coup by using army officers who had close ties with me or by mobilizing armed forces under the control of my confidants,” the North’s Korean Central News Agency on Friday quoted Mr. Jang as having said on Thursday during his court-martial. “I thought the army might join in the coup if the living of the people and service personnel further deteriorate in the future.”
 “我准备利用有私人交情的军队干部或亲信，动员他们手中的武装力量，”朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)周五援引张成泽周四在军事法庭受审时的话说，我“还想，如果今后群众和军人的生活进一步恶化，或许军队也会赞同政变”。
It could not be independently confirmed whether Mr. Jang, long considered a champion of a Chinese-style economic reform in North Korea, actually made such a statement or whether the regime cooked up the assertion to justify his execution. But the long list of crimes that Mr. Jang and his followers were accused of having committed was tantamount to a highly unusual admission of what analysts said could be a serious and bloody power struggle over economic and other policies inside the impoverished but nuclear-armed country.
无法独立核实张成泽是否实际做了这些陈述，还是朝鲜当局为给处决他提供法律依据而编造了他的话。张成泽长期以来被认为是一个提倡在朝鲜实施中国式经济改革的人。但是，张成泽及其追随者被指控所犯的各种罪行，无异于极不寻常地承认了分析人士所说的、可能存在的一场严重而且血腥的权力斗争，一场在这个极度贫穷、但拥有核武器的国家内部发生的有关经济和其他政策的斗争。
The speed with which Mr. Kim — or whoever else was engineering Mr. Jang’s downfall — hurried to execute him and make it public was a sign of instability and a lack of confidence in Mr. Kim’s grip on power, the analysts said. Normally, North Korea hides any signs of disloyalty to the Kim dynasty.
分析人士说，金正恩（或是制造张成泽下台的其他人）急于处决张成泽并将结果公诸于众，是一种不稳定的迹象，表明对金正恩所掌握权力的缺乏信心。通常，朝鲜掩盖任何对金家王朝不忠的迹象。
“If Kim Jong-un was sure of his control of power, he would not have needed to execute his uncle,” said Lee Byong-chul, senior fellow at the Institute for Peace and Cooperation in Seoul. “There will be big and small bloody purges, and at a time like this, desperate extremists may lash out. Pyongyang is no longer safe.”
首尔和平与合作研究所(Institute for Peace and Cooperation)高级研究员李炳哲(Lee Byong-chul)说，“如果金正恩对自己控制的权力充满信心的话，他就不需要处决自己的姑父。朝鲜将会发生大大小小的血腥清洗，在这种时候，绝望的极端分子可能会发动猛烈攻击。平壤将不再安全。”
North Korea on Friday hinted at such purges by condemning “undesirable and alien elements” in “important posts of the party and state,” in “ministries and national institutions,” and in agencies dealing with foreign trade, as well as Mr. Jang’s acquaintances in the military.
朝鲜周五暗示了这种清洗，审判公报谴责了在“党和国家的重要岗位”、在“党中央机构及其下属单位”、以及在外贸部门存在“不纯分子和异己分子”，还提到张成泽在军队中的亲信。
Mr. Jang, 67, was executed Thursday immediately after being convicted on treason charges, North Korea said. Suh Sang-kee, a senior governing party lawmaker in Seoul, quoted South Korean intelligence officials as saying that Mr. Jang was executed by a machine-gun firing squad.
公报称，67岁的张成泽在周四被判犯有叛国罪后被立即执行死刑。韩国执政党高级议员徐相记（Suh Sang-kee，音译）在首尔引用韩国情报官员的话说，张成泽是被机关枪行刑队处决的。
Long thought to be the second most influential man in the North, Mr. Jang was the most prominent North Korean purged and executed under Mr. Kim, who South Korean officials said was resorting to “a reign of terror” to consolidate his power. Mr. Jang was the husband of Kim Kyong-hee, a sister of Kim Jong-il, Mr. Kim’s late father, who ruled the North before his son. The fate of Ms. Kim was not known, though analysts say it would be unlikely for Kim Jong-un to harm a blood relative.
张成泽长期以来被认为是朝鲜第二号最具影响力的人，也是金正恩上台后遭到清洗的最重要的朝鲜人。韩国官员说，金正恩正在用“恐怖统治”来巩固自己的权力。张成泽是金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hee)的丈夫，金敬姬是金正恩先父金正日的妹妹，金正恩上台前，朝鲜由金正日统治。金敬姬的命运如何尚无从知晓，但分析人士称，金正恩不大可能会伤害一位有血缘关系的亲属。
“The way they dealt with Jang Song-thaek was highly unusual and unprecedented in North Korean history,” said the Unification Minister Ryoo Kilj-jae, South Korea’s top North Korea policy maker. “We are watching the recent series of developments in the North with a deep concern.”
韩国负责制定朝鲜政策的最高长官、统一部(Unification Minister)部长柳佑益(Ryoo Kihl-jae)说，“他们处理张成泽的方式极不寻常，在朝鲜史无前例。我们正在密切关注朝鲜最近发生的一系列情况。”
The State Department said Thursday that it could not verify the execution, but a deputy spokeswoman, Marie Harf, said if it did happen, “this is another example of the extreme brutality of the North Korean regime.”
美国国务院周四称尚无法核实处决是否发生，但一名发言人玛丽·哈尔夫(Marie Harf)说如果确实发生了，“这是朝鲜政权极度残暴的又一个例子。”
Kim Kwan-jin, the South’s defense minister, said that the South Korean military was being extra vigilant as it feared that the North might attempt a military provocation against the South to defuse what might be a domestic political crisis.
韩国国防部长金宽镇(Kim Kwan-jin)说，韩国军队正倍加警惕，因为担心朝鲜可能会企图通过挑衅韩国来缓和一场可能的国内政治危机。
“The North Korean military may make a wrong decision for various reasons,” he said. “There may be a competition within the military to show loyalty to Kim.”
他说，“朝鲜军队出于种种原因可能会做出错误的决定。军队内部可能会竞相向金正恩表示忠诚。”
Mr. Jang had been a fixture in the North Korean elite for the past 40 years, serving in major party posts under Kim Jong-il and gaining more power under his son, Kim Jong-un. During a party meeting on Sunday, North Korea stripped Mr. Jang of all his powerful posts and expelled him from the ruling Workers’ Party, calling him an “anti-party, counterrevolutionary factional leader.” On Monday, state-run television showed the spectacle of the once-powerful man being hauled off from the party meeting by uniformed guards.
张成泽在过去40年里一直是朝鲜精英阶层中的一个不倒翁，他曾在金正日手下担任党的要职，在金正日之子金正恩上台后，张成泽的权力进一步增加。在上周日的一次党的会议上，朝鲜解除了张成泽的所有职务并将他开除出执政的劳动党，称他为“反党反革命宗派头子”。国家电视台周一播放了这位曾一度位高权重的人被穿着制服的警卫带出劳动党大会的场面。
Analysts said it was possible for North Korea to have faked or exaggerated the charges against Mr. Jang, whose corrupt lifestyle may have made him a valuable scapegoat for Mr. Kim. But they also noted that Mr. Jang’s case marked the first time in recent decades that the North revealed what it purported was an attempt to overthrow its leadership and the first publicly announced execution of a member of the ruling family.
分析人士说，朝鲜可能捏造或夸大了对张成泽的指控，张成泽的腐败生活方式可能让他给金正恩充当了一个有价值的替罪羊。但是他们也指出，张成泽事件是朝鲜几十年来首次公布的其称之为企图推翻朝鲜领导人的案子，也是首次公开宣布处决一位执政家族成员。
“Although high-ranking leaders, including members of the Kim family, have been deposed before, we haven’t seen anything this public or dramatic since Kim Jong-un’s grandfather Kim Il-sung purged his last major rivals in the late 1950s,” said Prof. Charles K. Armstrong, a North Korea expert at Columbia University in New York and the author of “Tyranny of the Weak: North Korea and the World, 1950–1992.”
纽约哥伦比亚大学(Columbia University)朝鲜问题专家查尔斯·K·阿姆斯特朗(Charles K. Armstrong)教授说，“虽然以前也有过高级官员被罢免的事情，其中包括金家的人，但从20世纪50年代金正恩的祖父金日成清除掉自己最后一批主要对手以来，我们还没有看到过如此公开、如此戏剧性的事件。”阿姆斯特朗著有《弱者的暴政：朝鲜和世界，1950-1992》(Tyranny of the Weak: North Korea and the World, 1950-1992)一书。
“This seems to indicate the divisions within the Kim regime were more serious than previously thought,” Professor Armstrong said. “Jang was particularly close to China and was pushing North Korea toward a more Chinese-style economic reform. His ouster could reflect the reassertion of control by hard-liners who want to distance North Korea from China and slow down the reform process.”
阿姆斯特朗说，“这似乎说明金家政权内部的分歧比以前人们认为的更严重。张成泽与中国特别亲近，他正在推动朝鲜进行一场更中国式的经济改革。他的被罢黜可能反映出那些想让朝鲜与中国保持距离、并放缓改革进程的强硬派再次掌握了控制权。”
China, the North’s longtime patron, was also unnerved by growing evidence of an internal power struggle that could destabilize its already troublesome ally and possibly increase the American military presence in the region.
朝鲜的长期保护者中国也因朝鲜内部权力斗争的证据愈加明显而感到不安，斗争可能会让中国的这个已经麻烦不断的盟友变得不稳定，并可能会造成美国在该地区军事力量的增加。
Since Mr. Kim took power following his father’s death in December 2011, he has been enforcing a generational change in the party, government and military leadership, retiring figures from his father’s days and replacing them with people loyal to him.
金正恩在2011年12月其父去世后上台，自那以来，他一直在党政军领导层推行用年轻一代取代老一代的做法，让在其父手下任职的官员退休，用忠于自己的人接替他们。
“With Jang’s execution, Kim Jong-un is declaring an end to his father’s era,” said Kim Yong-hyun, a North Korea expert at Dongguk University in Seoul. “And he did it with a bang, sort of a shock therapy against anyone who still might have doubts about his authority. The speedy way he did it actually shows his daring and confidence.”
首尔东国大学(Dongguk University)的朝鲜专家金容铉(Kim Yong-hyun)说，“张成泽的处决表明，金正恩在宣布其父亲时代已经结束。他如此大张旗鼓，是给任何可能仍怀疑他权威的人施加休克疗法。他在处理这件事上速度之快实际上反映了他的胆量和信心。”
But analysts had lingering questions about who was running the country behind Mr. Kim.
但是，分析人士对谁在金正恩背后运转整个国家有挥之不去的问题。
“If it has been another group — most likely, conservatives within the North Korean regime — that has engineered Jang’s removal, then they could now control what Kim Jong-un sees, hears and says,” said Chang Yong-seok, a senior researcher at the Institute for Peace and Unification Studies at Seoul National University. With Mr. Jang, who was something of a moderate, gone, Mr. Kim could find it hard to control the hard-liners, Mr. Chang added.
首尔大学和平与统一研究中心(Institute for Peace and Unification Studies at Seoul National University)高级研究员张永石(Chang Yong-seok)说，“如果是另一个团体把张成泽搞掉的话，这个团体很有可能是朝鲜政权中的保守派人士，那么他们现在就能控制金正恩看到、听到的东西，以及他说的话。”张永石补充说，现在张成泽这个温和派人士不在了，金正恩可能会更难驾驭那些强硬派人士。
The North Korean announcement suggested that Mr. Jang had started nurturing his own political ambitions even as Mr. Kim’s father began grooming his son to succeed him. At the time many analysts believed Mr. Jang and his wife had been handpicked by Kim Jong-il to help his young and inexperienced son navigate the North’s treacherous politics and carry on the family dynasty. The younger Mr. Kim took over the leadership of the country after his father’s death in late 2011, making him the third generation to run the state.
朝鲜的公报暗示，张成泽在金正恩的父亲为儿子的继位做准备时，就已经开始酝酿自己的政治野心。当时，很多分析人士认为金正日亲自挑选了张成泽及其妻子，来帮助年青且不经世事的儿子对付朝鲜变幻莫测的政治，让金家王朝继续下去。金正恩在2011年底其父去世后接任领导人，成为统治国家的金家第三代。
While Mr. Kim was inheriting power, his uncle built a “little kingdom” of his own in the party, with his followers calling him “No. 1 comrade,” North Korea said on Friday. Mr. Jang dreamed of first becoming premier “when the economy goes totally bankrupt” and then solving “the problem of people’s living at a certain level” by spending an enormous amount of funds he has stashed away, it said.
朝鲜的公报周五称，在金正恩接替政权的同时，他的姑父在党内成立了自己的一个“小王国”，其追随者称他为“第一同志”。公报还说，张成泽梦想在“经济完全瘫痪”时担任总理，通过动用自己私藏的庞大资金“解决一些(人民的)生活问题”。
“Jang dreamed such a foolish dream that once he seizes power by a base method, his despicable true colors as ‘reformist’ known to the outside world would help his ‘new government’ get ‘recognized’ by foreign countries in a short span of time,” it said. That was tantamount to trying to overthrow North Korea by “ideologically aligning himself with enemies,” North Korea said.
公报称，“张成泽幼稚地认为，他以卑劣的方法篡夺权力后，'新政权'可以借其被外界认为'改革家'的丑恶嘴脸，很快能得到外国的'承认。'”朝鲜说，这无异于“从思想上类同敌人”、试图推翻国家政权。
Mr. Jang’s execution means the demise of an influential voice for economic reform in North Korea, analysts said.
分析人士说，张成泽被处决意味着一个呼吁在朝鲜进行经济改革的声音的终止。
“He has been the only one in the North who could talk about economic change,” Mr. Chang said. “So, when I heard of Mr. Jang’s execution, my first thought was that it was a death notice for those of us who have hoped for economic reform in the North.”
张永石说，“他是朝鲜唯一一位能够谈经济改革的人。所以，当我听到张成泽被处决的消息时，我的第一个想法就是，这是发给我们这些希望朝鲜进行经济改革的人的死亡通知。”