HONG KONG — Kim Jong-un has promoted his younger sister to North Korea’s most important political body, a rare public gesture of confidence by a leader whose dealings with family members are often opaque and sometimes deadly.
香港——金正恩已提拔自己的胞妹进入朝鲜最重要的政治机构，他以这样的公开姿态表达信任的情况很罕见，因为金正恩对待家人的方式往往很不透明，有时甚至不共戴天。
The sister, Kim Yo-jong, who heads the ruling Workers’ Party of Korea’s propaganda department and is the only one of Mr. Kim’s siblings active in his government, was made an alternate member of the Politburo on Saturday. Her promotion was announced Sunday by the state-controlled Korean Central News Agency.
金与正(Kim Yo Jong)在朝鲜执政党劳动党负责宣传工作，也是金正恩的兄弟姐妹中唯一活跃在政坛的人。上周六，她被提拔为政治局候补委员。官方媒体朝中社在周日宣布了这个消息。
Ms. Kim is believed to be 28 to 30 years old, which would make her the youngest member of the powerful but secretive decision-making body. Her promotion took place during a gathering of senior party members a day before the 20th anniversary of when the Kims’ father, Kim Jong-il, was named general secretary of the Workers’ Party.
据信金与正的年龄在28岁到30岁之间，因此她成为了这个强大而隐秘的决策机构中最年轻的成员。她是在劳动党高级成员参加的一次会议上获得提拔的，次日就是金正恩的父亲金正日出任劳动党总书记20周年纪念日。
Ms. Kim is often seen accompanying her brother at state functions and on tours of military units and factories. Unlike senior generals and party secretaries who cluster around Mr. Kim taking notes, Ms. Kim often appears in state news photographs able to move about on her own.
金与正经常陪同金正恩出席国务活动，视察军队和工厂。与围在金正恩周围做笔记的高级将领和党委书记不同，在朝鲜的新闻照片中，金与正可以独自走动。
The siblings’ mother, Ko Yong-hui, was Kim Jong-il’s third wife. Ms. Kim’s bloodline gives her an unmatched status among the party’s elites. The state news media often shows top-ranking officials listening reverentially when she speaks.
这两兄妹的母亲高英姬(Ko Yong-hui)是金正日的第三任妻子。金与正的血统给她带来了党内权贵们无法比拟的地位。朝鲜新闻媒体的报道显示，当她发言时，最高级别的官员常常认真恭听。
Her promotion comes at a time of increased tension between North Korea and the United States, as Mr. Kim tests nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles in contravention of international norms.
她的晋升正值金正恩罔顾国际准则，进行核武器和弹道导弹试验，导致朝美之间的紧张局势加剧之际。
Her brother’s faith in her contrasts with his dealings with other members of his family, some of whom he is believed to have had killed.
金正恩对她的信任，与他对其他家人的态度形成了鲜明的对比，据信他处死过某些家庭成员。
Kim Jong-il’s first son — Mr. Kim’s half brother — Kim Jong-nam, was assassinated in February at Kuala Lumpur International Airport, using a rare nerve agent banned by international treaty.
金正日的长子——金正恩同父异母的哥哥——金正男(Kim Jong-nam)今年2月在吉隆坡国际机场被国际条约禁止使用的一种罕见神经毒剂暗杀。
Kim Jong-il’s second-oldest son, Kim Jong-chol, was last spotted at an Eric Clapton concert in London in 2015, but little else is known about him. It is unclear why he was passed over for succession.
金正日的次子金正哲(Kim Jong chol)2015年曾现身埃里克·克莱普顿(Eric Clapton)在伦敦的演唱会，但人们对他知之甚少。目前尚不清楚为什么他没能继承父亲的位置。
Despite the cult that has grown around the Kim family, little is known about its members. The state media sometimes shows Mr. Kim’s wife, Ri Sol-ju. And virtually nothing is known about their three children, the oldest of whom is believed to 6 years old.
尽管金氏家族在国内培养了宗教式的狂热，但人们对其家族成员了解甚少。官方媒体的报道中有时会出现金正恩的妻子李雪主(Ri Sol-ju)。但他们三个孩子的情况却几乎完全不为外界所知，其中最大的一个应该有6岁了。
Given his children’s youth, Mr. Kim may have promoted his sister to guarantee dynastic continuity should he unexpectedly be unable to govern. Ms. Kim’s ascension, however, is no guarantee of protection from her brother’s mercurial purges.
鉴于孩子们还小，金正恩提拔胞妹可能是为了在他一旦出人意料无法统治之时，保证金氏家族统治的持续性。但是金与正获得晋升并不能保证她将来一定能逃脱金正恩变化无常的清洗行动。
Mr. Kim’s aunt, Kim Kyong-hui, a high-ranking party official and a close confidante of Kim Jong-il, has not been seen in several years and is rumored to be in ill health or under house arrest. Her husband, Jang Song-thaek, a four-star general, was charged with counterrevolutionary activities and executed in 2013.
金正恩的姑姑金敬姬(Kim Kyong hui)是劳动党内的高级官员，也是金正日的亲信，已经好几年没有露面，据说是在养病或是遭到了软禁。她的丈夫、四星上将张成泽(Jang Song thaek)在2013年被指控犯有反革命罪并遭到处决。