Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, has responded to President Trump’s vow at the United Nations to “totally destroy” North Korea if it threatened the United States or its allies. His remarks, released on Friday by KCNA, the North Korean state news agency, were believed to be the first time a North Korean leader directly issued a statement to the world under his name. Here is the full text:
朝鲜领导人金正恩就特朗普在联合国大会上誓言若朝鲜威胁美国及其盟友，将“彻底摧毁朝鲜”的言论做出回应。周五，朝鲜国家通讯社朝中社发布了他的言论，据信这是首次朝鲜领导人直接以其本人的名义发布声明。以下是声明全文：
The speech made by the U.S. president in his maiden address on the U.N. arena in the prevailing serious circumstances, in which the situation on the Korean Peninsula has been rendered tense as never before and is inching closer to a touch-and-go state, is arousing worldwide concern.
在近期朝鲜半岛局势空前激化，一触即发的危机状态每况愈下的严重情况下，美国当政者首次在联合国舞台上发表的演讲内容不能不说是世界焦点。
Shaping the general idea of what he would say, I expected he would make stereotyped, prepared remarks a little different from what he used to utter in his office on the spur of the moment as he had to speak on the world’s biggest official diplomatic stage.
我曾多少予以猜测，但因为这是一场全球最大的正式外交场合，所以我预料到他身为美国总统会发表与像往常一样在自己办公室凭一时冲动信口雌黄有所不同的已准备好的言论。
But, far from making remarks of any persuasive power that can be viewed to be helpful to defusing tension, he made unprecedented rude nonsense one has never heard from any of his predecessors.
但是，美国当政者不仅没有做有助于缓和局势、有说服力的发言，而且悍然放出“彻底摧毁”朝鲜这一历届任何美国总统都未曾说过的史无前例的野蛮狂言。
A frightened dog barks louder.
胆怯的狗总会叫的更咋呼。
I’d like to advise Trump to exercise prudence in selecting words and to be considerate of whom he speaks to when making a speech in front of the world.
奉劝特朗普，向世界说话时应措辞得当，考虑对方而慎重使用言辞。
The mentally deranged behavior of the U.S. president openly expressing on the U.N. arena the unethical will to “totally destroy” a sovereign state, beyond the boundary of threats of regime change or overturn of social system, makes even those with normal thinking faculty think about discretion and composure.
美国总统脱离更替朝鲜政权或推翻朝鲜制度的威胁范围，在联合国舞台上公然流露出彻底毁灭一个主权国家的反人类意志，这种神经病的狂态令连正常人都会丧失事理分辨能力和沉着。
His remarks remind me of such words as “political layman” and “political heretic” which were in vogue in reference to Trump during his presidential election campaign.
今天我不由得再次想起当年在美国总统选举时，嘲弄说特朗普是一个“政治门外汉”、“政治异端者”的话。
After taking office Trump has rendered the world restless through threats and blackmail against all countries in the world. He is unfit to hold the prerogative of supreme command of a country, and he is surely a rogue and a gangster fond of playing with fire, rather than a politician.
特朗普当选总统后，威胁恐吓世界所有国家，弄得世界比任何时候都鸡犬不宁。他完全不配一手掌控一国武装力量的最高统帅，分明不是一个政治人，而是爱玩火的恶棍、流氓。
His remarks which described the U.S. option through straightforward expression of his will have convinced me, rather than frightening or stopping me, that the path I chose is correct and that it is the one I have to follow to the last.
美国当政者直言不讳地解释了美国的选项。他的发言并没吓唬或阻止我，反而证明了我选择的道路是正确的，是要走到底的路。
Now that Trump has denied the existence of and insulted me and my country in front of the eyes of the world and made the most ferocious declaration of a war in history that he would destroy the D.P.R.K. [Democratic People’s Republic of Korea], we will consider with seriousness exercising of a corresponding, highest level of hard-line countermeasure in history.
既然特朗普当着世界的面否定和侮辱我和国家的存在本身，作出要消灭朝鲜的史上最残暴的宣战，我们也将慎重考虑采取与之相应的史上最高级别的超强硬应对措施。
Action is the best option in treating the dotard who, hard of hearing, is uttering only what he wants to say.
对于缺乏理解能力，只说自己想说的话的老东西，以实际行动来对付才是最佳方法。
As a man representing the D.P.R.K. and on behalf of the dignity and honor of my state and people and on my own, I will make the man holding the prerogative of the supreme command in the U.S. pay dearly for his speech calling for totally destroying the D.P.R.K.
我作为代表朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的人，以我们国家和人民的尊严和名誉，豁出我自己的一切，必将讨还美国统帅抛出毁灭朝鲜狂言的代价。
This is not a rhetorical expression loved by Trump.
这并不是特朗普爱常用的修辞学上的表述。
I am now thinking hard about what response he could have expected when he allowed such eccentric words to trip off his tongue.
我在深思，特朗普到底预测到朝鲜何等程度的反弹而吐出了那种古怪的妄言。
Whatever Trump might have expected, he will face results beyond his expectation.
不管特朗普想到了什么，他将会目睹超乎其想象的结果。
I will surely and definitely tame the mentally deranged U.S. dotard with fire.
必须、必须以火惩治美国的疯老头。