SEOUL, South Korea — The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, has vowed to build up his country’s nuclear arsenal as a “powerful deterrent” to the United States, state media reported, hours after President Trump said that “only one thing will work” in dealing with the isolated country.
韩国首尔——朝鲜官方媒体报道说，该国领导人金正恩誓言要把逐步建起核武库当作对美国的“强大遏制力”，而就在数小时之前，特朗普总统说，对付这个遭到孤立的国家，“只有一个办法能起到作用”。
Mr. Kim made his comments on Saturday at a meeting of the Central Committee of his ruling Workers’ Party, the official Korean Central News Agency reported on Sunday. He also reconfirmed his policy of simultaneously seeking progress in his nuclear weapons program and pushing for economic growth in the face of expanding international sanctions.
金正恩是周六在他领导的劳动党中央委员会全体会议上说这番话的。他还重申了在国际制裁扩大之际，朝鲜抓经济建设与核力量建设并举的路线。
The remarks indicated that Mr. Kim had no intention of retreating under American pressure even as South Korean officials and analysts worry that the North will conduct a major weapons test to observe the anniversary on Tuesday of the founding of the Workers’ Party.
这番言论表明，金正恩无意在美国的压力下退缩，而韩国官员和分析人士则担心，朝鲜将在本周二，为庆祝劳动党的建党纪念日进行大型武器试验。
North Korea’s nuclear weapons are a “powerful deterrent firmly safeguarding the peace and security in the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” Mr. Kim was quoted as saying, citing “protracted nuclear threats of the U.S. imperialists.”
朝鲜媒体援引金正恩的话说，朝鲜的核武器是“坚决维护朝鲜半岛和东北亚地区的和平与安全的强大遏制力”，因为这个地区面对着“美帝国主义长期以来的核威胁”。
Mr. Trump said on Twitter on Saturday that 25 years of talks and deals with North Korea had come to nothing, making “fools of U.S. negotiators.” He added, “Sorry, but only one thing will work!”
特朗普周六在Twitter上表示，与朝鲜之间的谈判和协议25年来没有带来任何变化，让“美国谈判代表受到了愚弄”。他还说：“很遗憾，但只有一个办法能起作用！”
When asked by reporters to elaborate later Saturday, he said: “You’ll figure that out pretty soon.”
周六晚些时候记者希望他进一步说明时，他说：“你们很快就会搞清楚。”
In response to North Korea’s tests of nuclear bombs and intercontinental ballistic missiles, the Trump administration has pushed for punitive economic measures while indicating that military solutions were also on the table.
针对朝鲜的核弹和洲际弹道导弹试验，特朗普政府推动惩罚性的经济措施，同时表示军事解决方案也摆在了桌面上。
North Korea has launched a series of powerful missiles since July, including two intercontinental ballistic missiles and intermediate-range missiles that flew over Japan. The North also conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test last month, deepening fears that the country was approaching its stated goal of capability to deliver nuclear payloads to the mainland United States.
自7月以来，朝鲜试射了多枚威力强大的导弹，其中两枚洲际弹道导弹和中程导弹飞越了日本领空。朝鲜在上个月进行的第六次核试验也是其威力最大的一次，越发让人担忧该国正在接近向美国本土发射有效核荷载能力的既定目标。
Indeed, a Russian lawmaker who had just returned from Pyongyang told reporters on Friday that North Korea was preparing for another long-range missile test.
刚刚从平壤返回的俄罗斯议员周五告诉记者，朝鲜正在准备再进行一次远程导弹试验。
The war of words between Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump about the North’s advancing nuclear program has also added to tensions and uncertainty in the region.
金正恩与特朗普之间关于朝鲜推进核计划的口水仗，也加剧了该地区的紧张局势和不确定性。
The American leader has threatened to “totally destroy” North Korea, and warned that the United States military was “locked and loaded” to take action if necessary. Mr. Kim has called Mr. Trump a “mentally deranged dotard” and has said that his country was ready to fight a nuclear war that would devastate the “entire” South Korea, the North’s state media said.
特朗普威胁要“彻底摧毁”朝鲜，并警告说，美军已经“子弹上膛、准备战斗”，会在必要时采取行动。朝鲜官方媒体报道，金正恩说特朗普是个“疯老头”，并表示朝鲜准备打一场可以毁灭“整个”韩国的核战争。
During the party meeting on Saturday, Mr. Kim said America’s hostility proved that North Korea was “absolutely right” to pursue its “byungjin” policy of seeking parallel development of nuclear weapons and the economy. Mr. Kim also claimed that the North Korean economy had grown despite escalating sanctions.
金正恩在周六的会议上表示，美国的敌对行动证明，朝鲜“经济建设与核力量建设”的“并举”路线是“千真万确的”。金正恩还表示，即便国际制裁变本加厉，朝鲜经济也仍在增长。
Mr. Kim also used the party meeting to promote those loyal to him in the party hierarchy. His younger sister, Kim Yo-jong, was made an alternate member of the Politburo — the top decision-making body that he leads.
金正恩还利用劳动党的这次会议，在党内提拔忠于他的人。他的胞妹金与正(Kim Yo-jong)成为了他领导的最高决策机构政治局的候补委员。
The sister, who is in charge of the party’s propaganda department, is the only sibling active in Mr. Kim’s government. His eldest brother holds no known post. Another elder, estranged brother, Kim Jong-nam, was killed in Kuala Lumpur in February; the Malaysian authorities have said that two women accused of killing him were hired by North Korean agents.
金与正负责劳动党的宣传工作，是金正恩的兄弟姐妹中唯一活跃的政府成员。他的长兄职位不为世人所知。另外一个关系疏远的哥哥金正男(Kim Jong-nam)今年2月在吉隆坡遇害；马来西亚当局曾表示，两名被指控杀害他的女性是朝鲜特工雇用的。
Also elevated to the Politburo was Foreign Minister Ri Yong-ho, who warned last month that North Korea could conduct a hydrogen bomb test over the Pacific.
获得提拔进入政治局的朝鲜外相李容浩(Ri Yong Ho)上个月警告，朝鲜可能在太平洋上空进行氢弹试验。