KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia — The two women who claim they were tricked into assassinating the estranged half brother of North Korea’s leader appeared in court Thursday, where their lawyers argued that Malaysia’s decision to free three North Korean suspects ended any chance of bringing the real culprits to justice.
马来西亚吉隆坡——周四，声称被骗暗杀朝鲜领导人关系疏远的同父异母哥哥的两名女子出现在法庭上，她们的律师表示，马来西亚释放三名朝鲜籍嫌疑人的决定，终结了一切把真正的凶手绳之以法的机会。
The prime minister of Malaysia, Najib Razak, allowed the three suspects to leave the country two weeks ago in a deal his government negotiated with North Korea, making the women, one from Indonesia and one from Vietnam, the only suspects likely to be charged in the killing.
在两周前通过谈判与朝鲜达成的一项协议中，马来西亚总理纳吉布·拉扎克(Najib Razak)允许那三名朝鲜嫌疑人离境。这两名分别来自印度尼西亚和越南的女子，因此成了这起谋杀案中可能会受到指控的仅有的嫌疑人。
“That’s tantamount to a miscarriage of justice,” said Gooi Soon Seng, the lawyer representing the accused Indonesian, Siti Aisyah, in an interview after the court hearing. “The two girls are mere scapegoats. They are naïve girls who have been used by these people.”
“这无异于正义的失败，”印度尼西亚人西蒂·艾莎(Siti Aisyah)的代理律师魏顺成（Gooi Soon Seng，音）在法庭聆讯结束后接受采访时说。“这两个姑娘不过是替罪羊。她们太天真，被这些人利用了。”
Ms. Siti, 25, and Doan Thi Huong, 28, are accused of smearing VX nerve agent, a banned chemical weapon, on the face of Kim Jong-nam, the half brother of Kim Jong-un, at the Kuala Lumpur airport in February.
25岁的西蒂和28岁的段氏香（Doan Thi Huong，音）被指2月在吉隆坡机场把违禁化学武器VX神经毒剂抹在金正恩(Kim Jong-un)同父异母的哥哥金正男(Kim Jong-un)的脸上。
The women thought they were participating in a prank and had been promised at least $100 for it, Mr. Gooi said. They never received the money and now face the death penalty on murder charges.
魏顺成说，这两名女子以为自己是在参加一场恶作剧，并被许以至少100美元的报酬。她们从没收到这笔钱，现在面临着以谋杀罪判处死刑。
The police have identified at least seven North Koreans they believe were involved in organizing the assassination, including the three who were allowed to leave Malaysia last month. All seven, including four who left the country hours after the killing, are thought to be back in North Korea.
警方确认了至少七名据信参与组织了这场暗杀的朝鲜人，包括上月获准离开马来西亚的那三个人。外界认为，这七人，包括在谋杀几个小时后离开马来西亚的四人，都已回到朝鲜。
South Korean officials accuse North Korea of orchestrating the killing, which eliminated a potential rival to the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un.
韩国官员指责朝鲜策划了这起谋杀，以消除对朝鲜领导人金正恩的潜在威胁。
Analysts say that North Korea got the better of Malaysia by barring nine Malaysian diplomats and their families from leaving the North until Malaysia agreed to release Mr. Kim’s body and the three suspects, who had been holed up in the North Korean Embassy in Kuala Lumpur.
分析人士称，朝鲜在与马来西亚的较量中占了上风，他们禁止九名马来西亚外交官及其家人离开朝鲜，直到马来西亚同意放行金正男的遗体和藏身于吉隆坡朝鲜大使管的前述三名嫌疑人。
“Najib wanted all the Malaysians back for domestic political reasons so he was willing to let North Korea get away with murder,” said James Chin, the director of the Asia Institute Tasmania at the University of Tasmania.
“因为国内政治原因，纳吉布想让所有马来西亚人回国，所以才愿意让朝鲜逃脱惩罚，”塔斯马尼亚大学塔斯马尼亚亚洲研究所(Asia Institute Tasmania at the University of Tasmania)所长詹运豪(James Chin)说。
The nine Malaysians in Pyongyang were diplomats assigned to North Korea and their relatives, who never faced any threat to their safety and were free to go about their daily lives, call home and send photos.
身在平壤的九名马来西亚人是派驻朝鲜的外交官和他们的亲属。他们从未面临任何安全威胁，在日常生活中可自由活动、给家里打电话和发照片。
But analysts said that Mr. Najib could ill afford a hostage crisis heading into national elections to be held within the next 16 months.
但分析人士称，在全国性选举即将在接下来的16个月内举行的情况下，纳吉布承担不起出现一场人质危机的后果。
“North Koreans usually get the best of any country forced into negotiating with it, including the U.S.,” said Oh Ei Sun, a former political secretary to Mr. Najib and an adjunct senior fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore.
“朝鲜通常会在与被迫进行谈判的国家的较量中占据上风，包括美国，”曾担任纳吉布的政治秘书，现在是新加坡拉惹勒南国际研究学院(S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies)兼职高级研究员的胡逸山(Oh Ei Sun)说。
The Malaysian authorities obtained one concession: They were allowed to interview the North Korean suspects in the embassy before they left the country.
马来西亚当局取得了一个让步：他们获准在朝鲜嫌疑人离开马来西亚之前，在朝鲜大使馆审问他们。
“We have obtained whatever we want from them,” Khalid Abu Bakar, the national police chief, told reporters at the time. “They have assisted us, and they have been allowed to leave.”
“我们得到了想从他们那里得到的东西，”马来西亚警察总长卡立德·阿布·巴卡(Khalid Abu Bakar)当时对记者表示。“他们为我们提供了协助，他们已获准离开。”
But the content of those interviews has not been made public, and in court in Sepang, south of Kuala Lumpur, on Thursday, the lawyers representing the two women protested that they had not been provided with recordings or transcripts, either.
但审问的内容尚未对外公开。周四在吉隆坡南部雪邦的法庭上，两名女子的代理律师对没有向他们提供审问的音像和文字资料表示抗议。
“Honestly, I feel we have been handicapped in so many ways in this case,” Mr. Gooi said.
“老实说，我觉得在这桩诉讼中，我们在很多方面都受到了限制，”魏顺成说。
The Malaysian government did not respond to requests for comment.
马来西亚政府未回复记者的置评请求。
Mr. Gooi said that both women had been working as escorts when they were recruited by the North Koreans and that they did not meet each other until the day of the attack.
魏顺成说，被朝鲜人雇佣时，两名女子的工作都是伴游，并且直到袭击那一天，两人才第一次见面。
Ms. Siti, a part-time spa masseuse who also had a photo of herself posted on an outcall website, was recruited in January by a Malaysian scout working for the North Koreans, Mr. Gooi said. He found her at the Beach Club Cafe, a bar in Kuala Lumpur that is a well-known hangout for women from Asian countries seeking to make quick money.
兼职水疗按摩师西蒂还把自己的一张照片发在了一个应召网站上。魏顺成说，今年1月，一个为朝鲜人服务的马来西亚星探雇佣了西蒂。他是在吉隆坡一个名为海滩俱乐部咖啡店(Beach Club Cafe)的酒吧发现西蒂的。该酒吧很有名，常有来自亚洲各国希望挣快钱的女子出没。
Ms. Huong was recruited in December in Hanoi, he said.
他说，段氏香是去年12月在河内被雇佣的。
The two women were handled by separate teams of North Korean men, who posed as being from Japan or China. Ms. Siti knew her handler as James, who she thought was Japanese.
两名女子由朝鲜男子组成的不同团队管理。他们假扮日本人或中国人。西蒂称训练她的人叫詹姆斯(James)。她以为他是日本人。
After her arrest, the police retrieved a photo of James from her cellphone, Mr. Gooi said. James turned out to be Ri Ji U, one of the three North Korean suspects who had been allowed to leave Malaysia.
魏顺成说，逮捕西蒂后，警方从她的手机里获取了一张詹姆斯的照片。这个詹姆斯原来就是获准离开马来西亚的三名朝鲜嫌疑人中的李志右（Ri Ji U，音）。
“James is central to our defense,” Mr. Gooi said.
“詹姆斯是我们辩护的关键，”魏顺成说。
The other two suspects allowed to leave Malaysia were Kim Uk Il, an employee of North Korea’s state-run airline, and Hyon Kwang Song, who as the embassy’s second secretary has diplomatic immunity.
另外两名获准离开马来西亚的嫌疑人分别是朝鲜国有航空公司的员工金旭一（Kim Uk-il，音），和享有外交豁免权的朝鲜大使馆二等秘书玄光城（Hyon Kwang Song，音）。
Under the guidance of the North Korean handlers, Gooi said, the women practiced approaching strangers in public and smearing liquid on their faces. They believed their pranks would be shown in videos in Japan and China, perhaps kicking off their show business careers. They were paid $100 to $200 each time, he said.
魏顺成说，在朝鲜训练人员的指导下，两名女子练习在公共场合走到陌生人跟前，把液体抹在对方脸上。她们以为自己的恶作剧会出现在日本和中国的视频里，或许会开启她们的演艺事业。他说，她们每次会拿到100到200美元的报酬。
Siti performed pranks on at least 10 occasions and Huong at least four, he said. Many of them took place in locations that Kim was known to frequent, including both terminals at the Kuala Lumpur airport and the Mandarin Oriental hotel in Kuala Lumpur.
他表示，西蒂进行了至少10次恶作剧，段氏香至少4次。很多都发生在金正男据知会常去的地方，包括吉隆坡机场的两个航站楼和吉隆坡文华东方酒店(Mandarin Oriental)。
Siti was flown to Phnom Penh, Cambodia, where she performed three pranks, each earning her $200. A trip planned for Macau, where Kim lived, was canceled at the last minute.
西蒂还被用飞机送去柬埔寨金边，在那里进行了三次恶作剧，每次获得200美元报酬。有一次还安排了去金正男的居住地澳门的计划，但计划在最后一刻被取消。
The two women were unaware that Kim had died in the attack until they were arrested, Gooi said.
魏顺成说，直到被捕时，她们才知道金正男已在袭击中死亡。