WASHINGTON —Kim Jong-un is headed to the moon.
华盛顿——金正恩(Kim Jong-un)要去月球。
That, at least, is one of the official North Korean explanations for the testing last week of a rocket engine that, if as powerful as the North claims, would rival the commercial rockets that Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, of Amazon and Tesla, now use in their aerospace companies to fire payloads into space.
这至少是朝鲜对上周试验一款火箭发动机给出的官方解释之一。若其功率真如朝鲜宣称的那么强劲，那么这款火箭便可与亚马逊(Amazon)的杰夫·贝佐斯(Jeff Bezos)和特斯拉(Tesla)的埃隆·马斯克(Elon Musk)名下的航空航天公司眼下用于升天的商业火箭媲美。
Inside the United States’ intelligence agencies, though, there is considerable skepticism that North Korea is truly eager to plant a flag on the lunar landscape. The agencies are exploring another explanation: that Mr. Kim, the North Korean leader, is racing ahead, as the United States is distracted by a bruising presidential election, to develop a way for his growing arsenal of nuclear weapons to reach New York and Washington.
不过，在美国情报机构内部，对朝鲜是否真的渴望在月球上插上自己的旗帜存在相当大的怀疑。相关机构正在探索另一个解释：在美国因一场激烈的总统选战而分心之际，朝鲜领导人金正恩正在全速前进，以期为其日渐增加的核武器抵达纽约和华盛顿找到一种方式。
The North may not be working alone. An intelligence finding that the United States quietly made public in January suggests that the development of the North’s big engine, which it claims produces 80 tons of thrust, may be part of a joint partnership with Iran. A Treasury Department announcement of sanctions against Iranian officials and engineers named two who had “traveled to North Korea to work on an 80-ton rocket booster being developed by the North Korean government.”
朝鲜可能并非孤军奋战。美国今年1月低调地公布了一份情报分析。这份报告表示，朝鲜这款大型发动机的研发或许是与伊朗共同合作的一部分。朝鲜称该发动机能产生80吨的推力。在宣布对伊朗官员和工程师的制裁时，美国财政部提到了两名人员曾“前往朝鲜，参与朝鲜政府正在研制的一款80吨火箭助推器的相关工作”。
Few threats as urgent as the dramatic escalation of North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs are likely to confront Hillary Clinton or Donald J. Trump, who will have their first debate on Monday night, as president.
在周一晚上进行首场辩论的希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)和唐纳德·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)，可能遇到的威胁甚少会像朝鲜的核计划和导弹计划显著升级这么紧迫。
An engine that delivers 80 tons of thrust would have about three times the power of an advanced North Korean rocket shown in a ground test in April, though it is not possible to verify the North’s claims. By most unclassified estimates, it will take North Korea perhaps five years to marry its missile advances with a weapon small enough and strong enough to survive the stresses of re-entering the atmosphere atop an intercontinental ballistic missile.
若能产生80吨的推力，则这款发动机的威力大约是朝鲜在4月的一次地面试验中展示的一枚先进火箭的三倍，不过尚无法核实相关说法。按照大部分非机密的估计，朝鲜大概要用五年时间，才能将其在导弹上的进步与搭载在洲际弹道导弹上的武器相结合，这种武器要足够小，足够牢固，能抵御重新进入大气层时的压力。
So far, Mr. Kim’s engineers have never executed a military test flight that could reach beyond the middle of the Pacific, though in a statement on Friday, the North threatened to attack Guam, home of the American B-1 bombers that conducted simulated runs last week over the Korean Peninsula.
截至目前，金正恩手下的工程师从未进行过范围超出太平洋中部的军事试飞。但在上周五的声明中，朝鲜威胁要攻击关岛。那里部署着美国的B-1轰炸机。上周，这款轰炸机在朝鲜半岛上空进行了模拟飞行。
The potential links to Iran complicate the issue. Iran has ignored a United Nations Security Council resolution, passed in conjunction with last year’s agreement freezing its nuclear program, to refrain from tests of nuclear-capable missiles for eight years.
此事可能与伊朗有关让问题变得更为复杂。伊朗一直无视联合国安理会要求其八年内不得试验能够携带核弹头的导弹的决议。该决议是与去年冻结伊朗核计划的协议一并获得通过的。
The Obama administration has not sought sanctions, knowing they would be vetoed by Russia and China, nor has it said much in public about the details of the cooperation on the new rocket engine. There is a long history of sharing missile technology, but no persuasive evidence exists that the Iranians have been involved in the North’s nuclear weapons tests.
奥巴马政府未寻求进行制裁——因为知道会遭到俄罗斯和中国的否决——也未在公开场合对双方在新款火箭发动机上的合作细节做过多讨论。共享导弹技术的做法历史悠久，但没有令人信服的证据表明伊朗参与了朝鲜的核武器试验。
The moonshot talk may be aspirational, but it is not lunacy. Rocket experts say four of the new North Korean engines, clustered at the base of a space vehicle, would be powerful enough to hurl a no-frills payload to the moon. But the North would have to master many other technologies before even an unmanned vehicle could be landed there.
登月的说法可能像是大话，但却并不疯狂。火箭专家称，若集中部署在航天器底部，四台朝鲜新型发动机或许便足以将基本的有效载荷发射至月球。不过，即便是让无人飞行器登上月球，朝鲜也必须掌握其他很多技术。
In an interview last month with The Associated Press, the director of the scientific research department of North Korea’s National Aerospace Development Administration, Hyon Kwang Il, said a moonshot was the nation’s goal.
上个月，朝鲜国家宇宙开发局(National Aerospace Development Administration)的科学发展司司长玄光日（Hyon Kwang Il，音）在接受美联社采访时称，登月是这个国家的目标。
“Even though the U.S. and its allies try to block our space development, our aerospace scientists will conquer space and definitely plant the flag of the D.P.R.K. on the moon,” he said, using the abbreviation for the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.
他说，“虽然美国及其盟友竭力阻扰我们太空事业的发展，但我们的航天科学家将征服太空，一定要把D.P.R.K.的旗帜插在月球上。”这里的D.P.R.K.是指朝鲜民主主义人民共和国。
Always the propaganda master, Mr. Kim celebrated the rocket test on North Korea’s central television station, which broadcast him in a white shirt on a sunny day at the North’s test site, standing at the base of the giant engine. The broadcast, which has been recirculated on YouTube, shows the fiery test.
金正恩一直是个宣传高手，他在朝鲜的中央电视台上庆祝这次火箭试验，在电视画面中，他身穿白衬衫在一个阳光灿烂的日子来到朝鲜的试验场地，站在巨大发动机的基座旁。电视画面还展示了点火试验。这段视频也出现在YouTube上。
Whatever the goal, the most important aspect of the new North Korean engine is that its design appears to be indigenous, rather than a knockoff of decades-old Soviet missiles. That suggests a growing domestic ability, which may explain the appeal to Iran, which intelligence officials speculate may be helping to fund the effort.
不管目标是什么，朝鲜新发动机最重要的一点是，它似乎是自主设计，而不是苏联几十年前导弹的仿制品。那也就表明朝鲜本国的能力有所提升，这也许可以解释它对伊朗的吸引力，情报官员们猜测伊朗可能在帮忙为这一努力提供资金。
“It’s like nothing we’ve seen before,” John Schilling, an expert on North Korea’s missile program at 38 North, a blog and think tank of the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, said of the powerful new engine. “It’s somewhat frightening that they have this capability, but somewhat encouraging that they want to use it for space launching.”
“这跟我们之前见到的完全不同，”约翰·霍普金斯大学(Johns Hopkins University)国际问题高级研究学院(School of Advanced International Studies)的博客、智库“北纬38度”(38 North)的朝鲜导弹项目专家约翰·席林(John Schilling)在谈起这个强大的新发动机时说，“他们拥有了这个能力，让人有点害怕，不过稍微令人感到鼓舞的是，他们想用它来进行太空发射。”
History shows that any strides in rocketry, no matter what the claimed purpose, can aid both civil and military programs. “That’s what the United States did,” said David Rothkopf, who has written two histories of the National Security Council. “It’s what the Russians did. It’s what the Chinese did. Why not the North Koreans?”
历史表明，不管声称的目的是什么，火箭技术的任何发展都会同时有助于民用和军事项目。“美国就是这样的，”戴维·罗斯科普夫(David Rothkopf)说。他写过两本关于国家安全委员会(National Security Council)的书。“俄罗斯和中国也是这么干的。朝鲜为什么不呢？”
American officials would not publicly say that the program referred to in the Treasury sanctions was the same one that resulted in last week’s test. But there was no other logical conclusion.
美国官员不会公开承认财政部制裁所针对的正是导致上周试验的项目。不过没有别的合理推论。
The announcement identified “Iranian missile technicians” from companies working for Iran’s Ministry of Defense for Armed Forces Logistics. It said that two of them, Seyed Mirahmad Nooshin and Sayyed Medhi Farahi, “have been critical to the development of the 80-ton rocket booster, and both traveled to Pyongyang during contract negotiations.”
这项声明确认了几名“伊朗导弹技术人员”，他们所在的企业为伊朗武装部队后勤部(Ministry of Defense for Armed Forces Logistics)服务。声明称，其中两人——赛义德·米哈迈德·诺辛(Seyed Mirahmad Nooshin)和赛义德·马迪·法拉希(Sayyed Medhi Farahi)“对80吨火箭助推器的研发起到了至关重要的作用，两人都在合同谈判期间去过平壤”。
Dr. Schilling said the big new engine seemed more suited to launching satellites and space probes than warheads. The North Korean military is known to prefer missiles small enough to transport on trucks, haul on back roads and hide in tunnels.
席林博士称，新的大发动机似乎更适合发射卫星和太空探测器，而不是导弹弹头。众所周知，朝鲜军队更喜欢小导弹，适合卡车运输、方便僻径运送或藏在地道里。
But the North is also highly aware that its launching failures in past years have become the stuff of ridicule on the internet, making it easy to dismiss the program. It seems to be looking for something that would create at least the impression that it will not take long for it to fly to the moon or strike any part of the United States.
不过，朝鲜也非常清楚，它过去数年中多次发射失败在互联网上已成为笑柄，这令大家很难把该计划当回事。朝鲜似乎在寻找某种至少能给人留下用不了多久，它就能飞上月球或打击美国任何地区这一印象的东西。
“You cluster four of them together, and that’s a very healthy ICBM,” Jeffrey Lewis, a North Korea specialist at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies in Monterey, Calif., said of the new engine.
“你把四个放在一起，那就是很强大的洲际弹道导弹，”位于加利福尼亚州蒙特雷的米德尔伯里国际研究学院(Middlebury Institute of International Studies)朝鲜专家杰弗里·刘易斯(Jeffrey Lewis)在谈起这个新发动机时说道。
Of course, moving from a static engine test to a cross-Pacific flight test would take considerable time, and the rocket would be a giant sitting duck for American targeting on the launchpad.
当然，从静态发动机试验到跨太平洋飞行试验还需要很长时间，对瞄准那个发射台的美国人来说，击中那个目标是轻而易举的事情。
One possibility is that the North is trying to replicate elements of the American “triad” — the creation of a nuclear arsenal that can be delivered by aircraft, ground-based missile silos and submarines. A recent missile launch by the North appeared to have been from a submarine.
有一种可能是，朝鲜正在努力复制美国的陆海空“三位一体”核威慑力量——建立一个可以用飞行器、地面导弹发射井和潜水艇投放的核武器库。朝鲜前不久发射的一枚导弹似乎就来自一艘潜水艇。
“We have 400 missiles sitting in silos,” Dr. Lewis noted, though there is a movement to eliminate the silos because they are old and vulnerable to pre-emptive attack.
“我们的发射井里有400枚导弹，”刘易斯指出。不过现在也有人提议淘汰这些发射井，因为它们太陈旧，难敌先发制人的攻击。
The North Koreans may be thinking, “Why not have everything?” Dr. Lewis added.
刘易斯补充说，朝鲜人也许在想：“为什么不拥有这一切呢？”
David C. Wright, a senior scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists, a Cambridge, Mass., group that monitors proliferation, also argued that the North Korea advance could well end up powering ICBMs from deep silos.
关注全球问题科学家联盟(Union of Concerned Scientists)的高级科学家戴维·C·赖特(David C. Wright)也认为，朝鲜的这一进步很可能最终是给发射井中的洲际弹道导弹提供动力。该联盟是位于马萨诸塞州坎布里奇市的一个关注核扩散的组织。
He noted that the high power of the new North Korean engine was similar to one that Chinese scientists developed to power that nation’s first long-range missile. It was quickly judged reliable enough to hurl warheads between continents.
他指出，动力强大的朝鲜新发动机与中国科学家研发的、给该国第一枚远程导弹提供动力的发动机类似。后者立即被认定足以用于洲际投掷弹头。
Dr. Wright, in a blog post on the North Korean advance, noted that the Chinese rocket, known as the DF-5 (for Dong Feng, or East Wind), “could carry a nuclear warhead to anywhere in the United States.”
赖特在一篇评价朝鲜取得该进步的博文中指出，中国的东风-5型火箭“能够把核弹头送到美国的任何一个地方”。
“Who knows what North Korea might want to do?” Dr. Wright said. “At this point, I don’t think we can take an ICBM off the table.”
“谁知道朝鲜想干什么？”赖特说，“在这一点上，我觉得我们不能把洲际弹道导弹排除在外。”