SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, said in his annual New Year’s speech on Friday that he was willing to discuss reconciliation with South Korea, while warning that the North’s military would keep working to develop “more diverse” capabilities.
韩国首尔——周五，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在发表新年讲话时表示，愿意与韩国就朝韩和解展开对话，同时亦警告称，该国将继续开发“各种各样”的军事力量。
Mr. Kim’s televised address, which is scrutinized each year for clues to his secretive government’s intentions, held no major surprises. As in past New Year’s speeches, the young leader called for raising the living standards of his impoverished people, and he directed both threats and overtures of peace toward his country’s adversaries.
每年，外界都会仔细分析金正恩的电视讲话，希望藉此理解神秘的朝鲜政府的意图，而今年的演说并没有出现太大惊喜。跟往年的新年演说一样，这位年轻的领袖誓言要提高贫困的朝鲜人民的生活水平，在威胁敌对国家的同时又对其提出和平建议。
“We will actively pursue dialogue and improvement in ties between North and South Korea,” Mr. Kim said in his 29-minute speech, which he read before a red backdrop that bore the symbol of his ruling Workers’ Party. “We will sit down and discuss the issues of the nation, including reunification, with anyone who truly wants the reconciliation, solidarity, peace and reunification of the nation.”
“我们将一如既往，为北南对话和改善关系做出积极努力，”在长达29分钟的演说中，金正恩在带有执政的劳动党(Workers’ Party)标志的红色背景前说。“凡是真心希望民族和解、团结、和平和统一者，我们都会跟他坐在一起，开诚布公地讨论民族问题、统一问题。”
In South Korea, such overtures from Mr. Kim, while not unwelcome, are viewed with considerable skepticism. In his address last year, he indicated that he was open to meeting with President Park Geun-hye of South Korea. But in 2015, the persistent tensions between the countries escalated to the brink of armed conflict, after two South Korean border guards were maimed by land mines. That crisis was alleviated in August; since then, the two sides, which have technically been at war since the 1950s, have held inconclusive talks.
在韩国，金正恩这样的示好虽说不是不受欢迎，但相当多的人却是以怀疑的目光看待其建议。在去年的演说中，他曾表示自己愿意和韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)会面。然而在2015年，在两名韩国士兵被地雷重伤后，朝韩两国之间的持续紧张局势便升级至濒临武装冲突边缘。8月，这场危机有所缓解。自那以后，严格来说自1950年代以来一直处于战争状态的朝韩双方举行了数次会谈，但均无果而终。
Mr. Kim did not specifically mention the North’s nuclear weapons or long-range missile programs on Friday, though he said the country would continue to develop “more diverse means of military strike of our own style.” He also condemned the joint military exercises held each year by South Korea and the United States.
金正恩周五并未特别提及朝鲜的核武器或其远程导弹项目，但他表示该国将继续开发“朝鲜式各种各样的军事打击手段。”他亦谴责了韩美每年进行的联合军演。