SEOUL, South Korea — In a speech before his ruling Workers’ Party, North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, said on Saturday that his country would live up to its international commitment to nuclear nonproliferation, while trying to end the danger of war on the Korean Peninsula by using its “strong nuclear deterrent” as leverage against the United States.
韩国首尔——上周六，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在执政党劳动党的大会上发言，表示朝鲜将履行核不扩散的国际承诺，并且要把其“强大的核威慑力”作为对抗美国的筹码，努力杜绝朝鲜半岛陷入战争的危险。
Mr. Kim presented what North Korea’s state media called an “ambitious blueprint” for his impoverished yet nuclear-armed country on Saturday, the second day of the Seventh Congress of his ruling Workers’ Party, the first such gathering in 36 years. Mr. Kim said that his country’s dealings with the outside world should be based on the fact that it has become a nuclear power — a status the United States has repeatedly vowed to not recognize.
上周六是劳动党第七次代表大会开幕的第二天，金正恩在大会上宣布了他为这个贫困但拥有核武的国家制定的计划，朝鲜官方媒体称其为“宏伟蓝图”。本次大会是该党36年来第一次举行党代会。金正恩说，朝鲜已经成为一个核国家，它会在这个事实的基础上与外界往来——美国一再坚称不会承认朝鲜是核国家。
“Our party and government will struggle to root out the danger of nuclear war being imposed on us by the United States, based on our strong nuclear deterrent and defend peace in the region and in the world,” Mr. Kim said. His speech was carried by the North’s official Korean Central News Agency on Sunday.
“我们的党和政府将利用强大的核威慑力，努力杜绝美国强加给我们的核战争危险，并且维护地区和世界和平，”金正恩说。朝鲜官方通讯社朝中社(Korean Central News Agency)周日传达了他的讲话。
Mr. Kim said North Korea would act like “a responsible nuclear power” by not using a nuclear weapon unless its sovereignty is violated. “We will comply sincerely with our international commitment to nuclear nonproliferation and strive to achieve the denuclearization of the world,” he said.
金正恩说，朝鲜会像“负责任的持核国家”那样行事，除非主权遭受侵犯，否则不会使用核武器。“诚实地履行对国际社会承担的不扩散核武器义务，为世界无核化进行努力，”他说。
Mr. Kim also said his country was willing to improve ties with hostile countries if North Korea is treated with respect and as a friend.
金正恩还表示，如果敌对国家尊重朝鲜，将朝鲜作为朋友来对待，朝鲜愿意改善与他们的关系。
Mr. Kim’s comments appeared in line with what outside analysts have said has been shaping up as North Korean policy in recent years. The analysts also said North Korea wants the United States to accept it as a nuclear power and sign a peace treaty in exchange for a commitment not to grow its nuclear arsenal or export nuclear weapons knowledge.
金正恩的说法，与外界对朝鲜近年成形的政策的分析相吻合。分析人士还表示，朝鲜希望美国接受它已经是一个核国家，在此基础上签署和平条约，来换取朝鲜不扩大其核武库或出口核武器的承诺。
North Korea has indicated in recent years that it can discuss its nuclear disarmament only in the context of global denuclearization. But Washington has insisted it can start dialogue with Pyongyang only when it agrees that it will abandon its nuclear weapons program.
朝鲜近几年来已经表明，它只会在全球无核化的背景下讨论核裁军。但华盛顿一直坚持只有当朝鲜同意将放弃核武计划之后，才会开始与平壤对话。
But senior North Korean officials attending the party congress vowed to expand their country’s nuclear arsenal, and claimed an ability to strike the United States with nuclear weapons. “Our means of nuclear strikes are ready to launch any time, targeting American imperialists’ bases of invasion in the Asia-Pacific region and the mainland United States,” Vice Marshal Ri Myong-su, the chief of the Korean People’s Army’s General Staff, said on Saturday.
但出席大会的朝鲜高层官员表示要扩大核武库，并声称有能力对美国进行核武袭击。“我们随时都可以启用核手段，打击美帝国主义在亚太地区的侵略基地，以及美国本土，”朝鲜人民军总参谋长李明洙(Ri Myong-su)次帅周六表示。
Vice Marshal Ri, one of Mr. Kim’s top aides, said that if there were an order from Mr. Kim, his military would launch nuclear strikes to “liberate” South Korea and “completely erase the United States off the face of the earth.”
李明洙是金正恩的高级助手之一，他说，只要金正恩下令，他的军队会发动核打击，“解放”韩国，“把美国从地球表面彻底抹除”。
North Korea had previously made similar threats and claims about its nuclear capabilities. But remarks by senior officials during the congress showed that Mr. Kim was using the rare political gathering to rally the party behind his so-called “byungjin” policy. On Saturday, Mr. Kim said that policy was not a temporary step but his party’s “permanent strategic line.”
朝鲜此前也曾发出过类似的威胁，对其核能力做出过类似的声明。但在大会期间发言的高级官员表明，金正恩正在利用这个难得一见的政治大会，号召全党支持他的“并行”政策。上周六，金正恩表示并行政策不是暂时的，而是该党的“永久性战略路线”。
The byungjin — or “parallel advance” — policy calls for stockpiling nuclear weapons in the belief that the deterrent would allow the country to focus on economic recovery. Since taking power four years ago, Mr. Kim has adopted it as his national strategy, despite warnings from Washington and Seoul that it would further isolate his already heavily sanctioned country.
并行政策提倡储备核武器，相信核威慑可以帮助该国把重心放在经济复苏上。自从四年前上台以来，金正恩一直把该政策当作自己的国家战略，尽管华盛顿和首尔的警告说，这将让已经遭受严厉制裁的朝鲜进一步被孤立。
Vice Marshal Ri’s comments were reported by the North’s state-run Pyongyang Radio and Korean Central Broadcasting Station, also a radio network.
朝鲜官方媒体平壤广播电台(Pyongyang Radio)和朝鲜中央广播电台(Korean Central Broadcasting Station)对李明洙的评论进行了报道。
United States and South Korean officials doubted that North Korea has developed a reliable intercontinental ballistic missile that would deliver a nuclear payload to the continental United States. Its three tests of the intermediate-range ballistic missile Musudan, which is believed to have a range long enough to reach United States military bases in Guam, all failed last month, with the projectiles crashing to the sea or exploding shortly after liftoff, they said.
美国和韩国官员不太相信朝鲜已经研制出可靠的洲际弹道导弹，足以把核武器发射到美国大陆。其远程弹道导弹“舞水端”(Musudan)的射程据信可以覆盖关岛的美国军事基地，但他们说，上个月进行的三次测试均告失败，导弹不是坠入大海，就是在升空后不久爆炸。
But under Mr. Kim, North Korea has accelerated its nuclear and missile program. He presented his nuclear weapons program as his key achievement during the party congress, which severed as a platform to cement his grip on power.
但在金正恩上台之后，朝鲜已经加快了核计划和导弹计划。这次党代会是他巩固权力的一个平台，金正恩在会上把核武器计划列为自己的主要成就。
“It is our unshakable determination that because the Workers’ Party has its byungjin line, there is nothing we cannot conquer in nuclear armament,” said another senior party official, Wang Chang-wuk, according to the North Korean radio reports. “We are determined to push through the party’s decision on building a nuclear might and to develop and make more diverse and advanced nuclear weapons of our own style.”
“这是我们不可动摇的决心，因为劳动党坚持并行政策，我们在核军备中可以克服一切困难，”据朝鲜电台报道，另一名高级官员王昌旭（Wang Chang-wuk，音）在大会上说。“我们要坚决遵行党建设和发展核力量的决定，研制出更多样、更先进、有我们自己的特色的核武器。”
On Saturday, a parade of top party officials spoke at the congress, idolizing Mr. Kim, who is believed to be in his early 30s, for “ushering in a great heyday in strengthening” North Korea, said the North’s official Korean Central News Agency. In his review of policies on Saturday, they said, Mr. Kim provided “an encyclopedic political program giving a perfect solution to all problems.”
据官方媒体朝中社报道，上周六，劳动党一系列高级官员在大会上发言，对年龄据信在30岁出头的金正恩表达崇拜之情，称颂他给朝鲜带来了一个“辉煌全盛期”。他们说，金正恩上周六进行的政策报告对“所有问题作出了精辟解答，是百科全书般的政治大纲”。