BEIJING — There is no end to shocking stories from North Korea, many involving the myriad cruelties of the brutal police state as reported by defectors. But the latest tale — a news media report that the young North Korean leader might have had his uncle torn apart by ravenous dogs while he watched — may say less about the North than what outsiders have come to expect of it.
北京——来自朝鲜的震惊世人的报道源源不断，许多报道涉及脱北者所讲述的这个警察国家的大量野蛮行径。但是最新的这则消息——有报道说，朝鲜的年轻领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)可能已经让他的姑父在其眼前被饿狗咬死——透露的更多的是外界对该国的看法，而非有关朝鲜的信息。
Here’s how it all started. More than three weeks ago, a Hong Kong newspaper, Wen Wei Po, published an article saying the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, had ordered his uncle, Jang Song-thaek, to be stripped naked, then thrown into a cage where he and his five closest aides were set upon by 120 dogs that had been not been fed for days. The men were completely devoured in front of Mr. Kim, the Hong Kong report said, without naming any sources.
一切要从三个多星期前说起。当时，香港《文汇报》刊登的一篇文章说，朝鲜领导人金正恩下令把其姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)衣服脱光，扔进一个笼子里，和他的五名亲信一起被120只好几天没喂的狗活活咬死。这则来自香港的报道说，金正恩观看了张成泽和他的亲信被狗吞噬的过程，但没有提供消息来源。
The death-by-dog story got more traction online starting Dec. 24, when a commentary published in The Straits Times, based in Singapore, said the fact that Wen Wei Po ran such a lurid article was a sign of the Chinese Communist Party’s “displeasure” at North Korea. It called Wen Wei Po the party’s “official mouthpiece” in Hong Kong. The writer of the commentary, Ching Cheong, was a journalist for Wen Wei Po before joining The Straits Times. In April 2005, while employed by the Singapore newspaper, he was detained by Chinese security officers during a reporting trip in southern China. Despite protests by other journalists and human rights organizations, Chinese officials imprisoned him for three years on charges of spying for Taiwan.Though Wen Wei Po has taken editorial stands that favor party policy, it is not an official mouthpiece of Beijing. And some scholars in Hong Kong have criticized what they call the newspaper’s low editorial standards. (It is true, however, that analysts have been saying for months that China, North Korea’s patron, is unhappy with Mr. Kim for ignoring its entreaties to stop its nuclear weapons and missile tests.)
从12月24号开始，张成泽被狗咬死的消息在网上引发了更多关注。就在那天，新加坡的《海峡时报》(The Straits Times)发表的一篇评论文章称，《文汇报》发表这样骇人听闻的报道显示了中共对朝鲜的“不满”。该报称，《文汇报》是中共在香港的“喉舌”。这篇评论的作者程翔在加入《海峡时报》之前曾经是《文汇报》的记者。2005年4月，作为《海峡时报》的雇员，程翔在中国南方执行报道任务时被中国的安全官员逮捕。尽管一些记者和人权组织进行了抗议，程翔被控为台湾从事间谍活动，入狱三年。尽管《文汇报》持亲共立场，它并非为北京说话的官方媒体。香港的一些学者称这份报纸的编辑标准较低。（不过，分析人士几个月以来一直在说，朝鲜的庇护者中国对金正恩无视其停止核武器和导弹试验的请求感到不满。）
The Straits Times commentary brought more attention to Wen Wei Po’s North Korea report. Then on Friday, some Western news organizations ran stories about that original article. NBC News, for example, summarized the article in an online report co-written from Beijing, with the caveat that it had no independent confirmation of the assertions.
《海峡时报》的评论文章为《文汇报》的朝鲜报道吸引了更多关注。在上周五，一些西方新闻机构对《文汇报》的文章进行了报道。例如，NBC新闻频道(NBC News)在一个部分发自北京的联合网络报道中概述了这篇文章的内容，并解释说，没有独立证实这些说法。
In a possible sign of how speculative the dog story might be, it was not picked up by mainstream South Korean news media, which does report many other stories from the North, citing defectors or other sources, that are difficult or impossible to confirm because of Pyongyang’s stranglehold on information. For the South Korean press, it seems, the dog story was too sensational even by North Korean standards. No official in Seoul has come out to lend credence to the report, although South Korean officials have briefed the press on intelligence reports of Mr. Jang’s execution.
主流的韩国新闻媒体没有提到这篇文章，这可能也证明了张成泽被狗咬死的报道的揣测性质有多强。韩国的新闻媒体援引脱北者或其他消息来源报道了许多关于朝鲜的消息，鉴于平壤对信息的钳制，这些报道很难或不可能被证实。对于韩国媒体来说，似乎张成泽被狗咬死的报道即使以朝鲜的标准衡量也让人感觉太耸人听闻。虽然韩国的官员已经向媒体简要介绍了张成泽被处决的情报消息，目前还没有首尔的官员声称该报道是可信的。
It is worth noting that feeding people to animals, an ancient Roman specialty in the day, is not at all normal in North Korea. In literature from ancient Korea, there are references of bodies of traitors, not live humans, being denied an immediate burial and exposing them to dogs and other animals.
值得注意的是，让动物把人咬死的这种古罗马时期的做法在朝鲜绝不是正常做法。在古朝鲜的文献中曾经提到过把叛徒的尸体暴露在户外让狗和其他动物撕咬，但不是活人。
Of course, North Korea being North Korea, it is impossible to know for sure what happened to Mr. Kim’s powerful uncle, including whether dogs were involved. The state is considered one of the hardest in the world for spies to penetrate, and the leadership is notoriously secretive.
当然，只要朝鲜还是朝鲜，就不可能准确地知道金正恩这个曾经位高权重的姑父身上到底发生了什么，比如是不是被狗怎么样了。这个国家被认为是世界上最难被间谍渗透的国家，其领导层也是出了名的神秘。
In this case, the country may have contributed to outsiders’ willingness to give the story some credence. North Korea has no qualms about using extreme language about traitors and how they should die. (The North has said Mr. Jang was a traitor who was trying to oust his nephew in a coup.) North Korean news media once released video footage of an effigy of Lee Myung-bak, the conservative former South Korean president whom the North loathed as a “traitor,” being attacked by dogs, run over by a tank and stoned by protesters. His pictures were used as targets at North Korean firing ranges.
在这个例子中，正因为发生在朝鲜，外界可能更倾向于相信这个故事的真实性。朝鲜从不惮于用极端的语言描述叛徒和他们的死法。（朝鲜称，张成泽曾试图发动军事政变，以颠覆其侄子的政权，是一个叛徒。）朝鲜的新闻媒体曾经播放过李明博(Lee Myung-bak)人像的视频，这名保守派的前韩国总统也被朝鲜称为叛徒。在视频中，李明博的人像被狗攻击、被坦克碾过，还有抗议者向他投掷石块。朝鲜还把印有李明博形象的图片当做射击的靶子。
After Mr. Jang was purged during a Dec. 8 party meeting, North Korean news media cited some citizens calling for “tearing the traitor Jang’s body to pieces and throwing them into a boiler.” When a North Korean military court sentenced him to death, its verdict said those who betrayed Mr. Kim “should be given no place to be buried.” Such extreme language helped give rise to wild speculation in South Korea about how Mr. Jang was killed. Some unconfirmed South Korean news reports said he might have been executed by machine guns or mortars and that his body might have been further damaged by a flamethrower.
在张成泽12月8日在劳动党的大会上被清洗之后，朝鲜的新闻媒体援引一些民众的话表示，要求“把叛徒张成泽的尸体撕成碎片，扔进油锅”。朝鲜军事法庭对张成泽处以死刑的判决书中说，背叛了金正恩的人“应该死无葬身之地”。这样极端的语言激起了韩国对于张成泽如何被处决的大量猜想。一些未经证实的韩国新闻报道说，他可能被机枪或是迫击炮处决，然后用喷火器毁尸。
Still, all that anyone seems to agree on is that Mr. Jang is dead.
似乎人们唯一达成一致的是，张成泽已经死亡。
On Dec. 23, The New York Times reported that the killing had its roots in a clash between Mr. Jang and Mr. Kim over control of natural resources, notably coal and fishing grounds. The report, which cited American and South Korean officials, said there had even been a firefight between armed men loyal to each of the two leaders. When the dust settled, Mr. Jang’s allies were detained, and two of his lieutenants were executed by a firing squad that may have used antiaircraft machine guns to do the deed. Firing squads are a usual method of execution in North Korea, although employing such large weaponry would be unusual.
《纽约时报》12月23日报道说，张成泽被处决的根本原因是他和金正恩在自然资源的控制权上出现了冲突，这主要涉及煤炭和渔场。报道援引美国和韩国官员的话说，双方的手下甚至发生了枪战。尘埃落定之后，张成泽的盟友被逮捕，他的两名副手被枪决，而且行刑队可能使用的是高射机枪。对死刑犯实行枪决在朝鲜是常见做法，不过使用类似大型武器的情况并不多见。
Days later, Mr. Jang was publicly denounced, tried and executed. The official report of the execution by the state-run Korean Central News Agency did not say how Mr. Jang was executed. It did say he was a “traitor” and “worse than a dog.”
几天后，张成泽身败名裂，被公开审讯和处决。朝鲜中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)关于张成泽被处决的正式报道中没有说明处决方法。但报道说，张成泽是一名“叛徒”，“连狗都不如”。