SEOUL, South Korea —The North Korean leader Kim Jong-un said his country’s test of a submarine-launched ballistic missile this week had achieved the “greatest success.”
韩国首尔——朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)称，他领导的国家本周进行的潜射弹道导弹试验取得了“最伟大的成功”。
He claimed that the continental United States, as well as American military bases in the Pacific, were now within the striking range of his missiles, according to the North’s state media on Thursday.
据朝鲜官方媒体周四报道，金正恩宣称，美国大陆以及美国在太平洋的军事基地，现在都处于导弹的打击范围内。
Analysts and defense officials in the region said that North Korea was still years away from achieving the capability Mr. Kim claimed. The country still does not have submarines large and advanced enough to travel long distances without detection to attack distant targets across the Pacific, they said.
该地区的分析人士和国防官员表示，朝鲜仍需数年时间才能实现金正恩宣称的那种能力。他们说，朝鲜依然没有足够大、足够先进的潜艇，可以远距离航行却不被发现，以便攻击太平洋对岸的远距离目标。
Nevertheless, the North’s test of a submarine-launched ballistic missile on Wednesday alarmed leaders of the region, as it demonstrated the advances the secretive country has made in its efforts to significantly enhance the range and stealth of its missiles.
然而，朝鲜周三进行的潜射弹道导弹试验，让该地区的领导人忧心忡忡，因为试验证明，在为显著提升导弹射程和隐蔽性而采取的行动中，这个神秘的国家取得了进步。
The Pukguksong, or Polaris, missile flew 310 miles toward Japan on Wednesday. When the North first tested it in May last year, the projectile exploded midair shortly after being ejected from under the water.
周三当天，“北极星”(Pukguksong)导弹朝着日本的方向飞行了310英里（约合500公里）。朝鲜去年5月首次试射这种导弹时，导弹从水下射出后不久便在半空中爆炸。
Mr. Kim, who supervised the launching on Wednesday, “appreciated the test-fire as the greatest success and victory,” the North’s official Korean Central News Agency said Thursday. It quoted Mr. Kim as saying that “the U.S. mainland and the operational theater in the Pacific are now within the striking range of the Korean People’s Army.”
朝鲜官方媒体中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)周四报道称，周三当天，指导发射的金正恩“称赞试射是最伟大的成功和胜利”。朝中社援引金正恩的话说，“美国大陆及其在太平洋的行动区，现在都在朝鲜人民军(Korean People’s Army)的打击范围以内。”
The news agency also said that North Korea launched its missile at a “high angle” from the maximum launching depth, indicating that it could have flown more than 310 miles if it had launched it at a normal angle. South Korean defense officials told reporters that the North appeared to have launched the missile at a sharp angle to keep it from landing too close to Japan.
朝中社还报道称，朝鲜是从最大发射深度“高角度”发射导弹的，表示如果正常角度发射的话，导弹的飞行距离会超过310英里。韩国的国防官员对记者表示，为了防止导弹的着陆地点距离日本太近，朝鲜发射时采用的似乎是锐角。
Mr. Kim claimed that the test on Wednesday showed that his country now had “all substantial means capable of standing up against the U.S. nuclear hegemony.” He urged his engineers to step up efforts to mount nuclear warheads on ballistic missiles and develop the means of their delivery.
金正恩宣称，周三的试验表明，他领导的国家现在握有“能够对抗美国核霸权的所有实质性手段”。他敦促该国工程师加大力度，力争把核弹头装载在弹道导弹上，并开发导弹运载方式。
During a visit to a front-line military unit on Wednesday, President Park Geun-hye of South Korea said the North’s “irrational decision-making system” and Mr. Kim’s “unpredictable character” made the North’s nuclear and missile threats more dangerous.
周三视察一支前线部队时，韩国总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)表示，朝鲜“不理性的决策制度”和金正恩“令人捉摸不透的性格”让朝鲜的核威胁和导弹威胁变得更加危险。
Submarine-launched missile technology would extend the reach of North Korean nuclear missiles and improve the country’s “second-strike” capability to retaliate if its land-based launching sites were taken out.
潜射导弹技术会扩大朝鲜核导弹的影响范围，并增强朝鲜在其地面发射基地被摧毁后，为了报复进行“二次打击”的能力。
But even if the North has been testing such missiles, it still needs to build a large, stealthy and long-range submarine to deploy them, South Korean defense officials said.
但韩国国防官员表示，即便朝鲜一直在试验这类导弹，它仍需要建造一艘能秘密行动的大型远程潜艇，才能部署导弹。
North Korea has an outdated fleet of 70 submarines, most of them minivessels unfit for operations beyond littoral waters, they said. Its largest submarines at the moment are copies of the Soviet-era Romeo class. The South Korean military has been monitoring a North Korean effort to build a modified Sinpo class submarine, which it has also used for its recent missile tests.
他们说，朝鲜有一支过时的潜艇舰队，由70艘潜艇组成，大部分都是小潜艇，不适合在沿海水域之外的地方开展行动。朝鲜目前最大的潜艇，效仿的是苏联时代的“罗密欧”级(Romeo)。韩国军方一直在监视朝鲜为建造一艘改良版“新浦级”(Sinpo)潜艇而进行的行动。最近的试验中朝鲜也使用了后者。