SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea said Wednesday that its leader, Kim Jong-un, had personally ordered the release of Jeffrey E. Fowle, an American, after considering requests from President Obama.
韩国首尔——朝鲜周三表示，其领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)在考虑了美国总统奥巴马的请求后，已亲自下令释放了美国人杰弗里·E·福尔(Jeffrey E. Fowle)。
Mr. Fowle, an Ohio municipal worker and one of three Americans detained in North Korea, had been held for nearly six months before a United States military plane picked him up Tuesday. He arrived Wednesday in Ohio, where he was reunited with his wife and three children, who rushed to greet his plane when he arrived at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton.
福尔是俄亥俄州的一名市政工作者，也是被朝鲜扣押的三名美国公民之一。在周二被一架美国军用飞机接走以前，他已经被拘禁了将近六个月。他于周三回到俄亥俄，并与妻子和三名子女团聚。当他抵达代顿附近的赖特-帕特森空军基地(Wright-Patterson Air Force Base)时，家人迫不及待地前来接机。
Mr. Kim recently reappeared in state-run news media after a six-week absence, ending widespread speculation about his health and his grip on power. With the statement on Wednesday, North Korea appeared to be burnishing Mr. Kim’s image at home as a leader capable of doing a favor for the American president.
在消失六周后，金正恩最近重新出现在了朝鲜官方媒体中，由此终止了外界对他的健康以及权力掌控状况的各种猜测。周三的声明似乎是朝鲜在国内给金正恩塑造这样一种形象：一位能够给美国总统送人情的领导人。
Analysts also said the sudden release of Mr. Fowle might have been a conciliatory gesture from Mr. Kim to bolster his government’s efforts to engage Washington in a dialogue.
分析人士还表示，福尔突然获释可能是金正恩在展示一种和解姿态，从而推动平壤与华盛顿展开对话的努力。
The report was the North’s first public comment on the circumstances surrounding Mr. Fowle’s release. Washington has not offered an explanation, except for thanking the Swedish government, which maintains an embassy in Pyongyang and has represented the interests of Americans held in the North. The United States and North Korea remain technically at war after the Korean War was halted in 1953 in a truce.
这篇报道是朝鲜首次就释放福尔一事进行公开评论。美国政府没有提供解释，仅对瑞典政府表示了感谢。瑞典在平壤设有大使馆，一直在代理遭朝鲜拘押的美国公民的权益。1953年，朝鲜战争以休战协议中止，但严格来讲，美朝仍处于战争状态。
Mr. Fowle, 56, of Miamisburg, Ohio, was released while he was awaiting trial on charges of committing an antistate crime. He entered North Korea in late April on a tourist visa and was arrested in May after leaving a Bible at a bar. North Korea considers any attempt to disseminate Christian messages by an outsider a crime aimed at undermining its political system.
56岁的福尔来自俄亥俄州迈阿密斯堡。获释时，他正等待对其反政府罪指控的审判。4月末，他持旅游签证进入朝鲜；5月，他因为把一本《圣经》留在酒吧而被捕。在朝鲜看来，外来人士传播基督教教义的任何尝试均是旨在破坏朝鲜政治体制的犯罪行为。
The statement released by the family gave thanks to God “for his hand of protection over Jeff these past 6 months” and said that Mr. Fowle wanted people to know that the North Korean government had treated him well.
福尔一家发表了一份声明，其中感谢上帝“在过去这六个月里为杰夫提供了保护”，并称福尔想告诉人们，他受到了朝鲜政府的善待。
The statement also said that although the family was “overjoyed” by his return, they were mindful that two other Americans, Kenneth Bae and Matthew Todd Miller, were being held “and understand the disappointment their families are experiencing today that their loved ones did not return home with Jeff.”
声明还说，虽然家人对福尔的回归“倍感欣喜”，但他们知道，还有两名美国人——肯尼斯·裴(Kenneth Bae)和马修·托德·米勒(Matthew Todd Miller)——仍被朝鲜拘禁，“我们明白，他们的家人今天有多么失望，因为他们所爱之人没有与杰夫一同回家。”
Mr. Fowle was present when a lawyer and family friend read the statement in front of his home, but he made no comment, only smiling when reporters asked how he was feeling.
当家里一名当律师的朋友在他家门前宣读该声明时，福尔也在现场。但被记者问及感受时，他未发表评论，只是微笑。
Few had anticipated Mr. Fowle’s release.
此前几乎没人料到福尔会获释。
In early September, the North Korean government arranged American news media interviews with Mr. Fowle and the two other detained Americans in which they beseeched Washington to send a high-profile envoy to negotiate their freedom. But United States officials said Pyongyang had repeatedly rejected their offer to send a high-level representative.
9月初，朝鲜政府安排美国新闻媒体采访福尔，以及其他两名在押美国人。在采访中，他们恳求华盛顿派遣一位高知名度的特使前去朝鲜就释放他们的事宜展开谈判。但美国官员表示，平壤多次否决了他们派一名高级代表的提议。
One of the Americans still in detention, Mr. Bae, was arrested in late 2012 and later sentenced to 15 years of hard labor on charges of trying to build an underground proselytizing network in a plot to overthrow the government. Last month, the North’s Supreme Court convicted the other American, Mr. Miller, on spying charges and sentenced him to six years of hard labor.
依然在押的其中一名美国人肯尼斯·裴于2012年底被捕，随后被判处15年劳役，罪名是试图建立一个地下传教网络，从而密谋推翻朝鲜政府。上月，朝鲜最高法院宣布另一名美国人米勒间谍罪名成立，判处其六年苦役。
North Korea later said that Mr. Miller, 25, of Bakersfield, Calif., had entered the country hoping to be arrested and become an eyewitness to prison life in the country. It said that Mr. Miller had torn up his tourist visa upon arriving in Pyongyang in April so that his unruly behavior could land him in a prison camp, where he hoped to collect evidence of human rights violations.
朝鲜随后表示，25岁的加利福尼亚州贝克斯菲尔德人米勒进入朝鲜时，希望被捕并亲眼见证朝鲜的监狱生活。朝鲜称，米勒4月一抵达平壤就撕毁了自己的旅游签证，这样他的违规行为就能让他被关进拘禁营，而他希望在那里搜集侵犯人权的证据。
The detention of the three Americans strained North Korea’s already rocky relations with the United States, which has been trying to isolate the country with the help of United Nations sanctions imposed for the North’s development and testing of nuclear weapons.
三名美国人被扣押，导致本就不佳的朝美关系变得更为紧张。因研发并试验核武器，朝鲜受到了联合国的制裁，而美国一直努力在这些制裁的帮助下孤立朝鲜。
Washington had accused Pyongyang of holding the Americans as “pawns” — human bargaining chips who could force the United States to make concessions, such as taking part in bilateral talks, which the North has long sought.
华盛顿谴责平壤将扣押的美国人作为“棋子”——以人质作为筹码，迫使美国做出朝鲜长期寻求的让步，比如参加双边会谈。
Following Mr. Fowle’s release, the United States urged North Korea to free the remaining two Americans.
福尔获释后，美国敦促朝鲜释放其余两名美国公民。