SEOUL, South Korea — A North Korean naval vessel sank last month, killing an unspecified number of sailors, according to North and South Korean news media.
韩国首尔——据朝鲜和韩国媒体报道，一艘朝鲜军舰于上月沉没，导致一些船员死亡，具体人数尚不明确。
The news first appeared on Saturday when the North’s official Korean Central News Agency reported that the country’s leader, Kim Jong-un, had visited a newly built cemetery for the sailors “sacrificed” on board the vessel, a submarine chaser, during “combat duties” last month.
周六，朝鲜官方媒体中央通讯社(Korean Central News Agency)率先报道了这条消息，称朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)前往一处最近修建的公墓，对这艘猎潜舰的船员进行了祭奠，后者于上个月“牺牲”在“战斗任务”当中。
The news agency gave no further details about what happened but quoted Mr. Kim as instructing his navy to “find all the bodies,” hinting at a sizable death toll. Photos of Mr. Kim visiting the cemetery with flowers showed a large mass tomb encircled by what looked like at least a score of headstones bearing the names and photographs of the sailors who had died.
朝中社并未详细讲述事件经过，但报道称，金正恩要求朝鲜海军“找到所有尸体”，此话意味着死亡人数较多。金正恩向公墓献花的照片显示，中间的巨大坟冢周围似乎环绕着至少20块墓碑，上面有死去船员的名字和照片。
South Korean military officials said there was no military clash between the two Koreas last month.
韩国军官说，朝韩两国上月并未发生军事冲突。
The mass-circulation newspaper Chosun Ilbo in Seoul reported on Monday that “tens” of sailors were believed to have died when the submarine chaser and a North Korean patrol boat sank off the North’s eastern coast during a navy drill. The submarine chaser was probably a 375-ton vessel built in China in the 1960s, it said, citing an unidentified military official.
首尔发行量很大的《朝鲜日报》(Chosun Ilbo)周一报道，这艘猎潜舰与一艘朝鲜巡逻船于海军演习期间沉没在朝鲜的东海岸附近，据信已有“数十名”船员丧生。该报援引一个未具名军官的话说，这艘猎潜舰很可能是20世纪60年代在中国制造的一艘375吨舰艇。
The South Korean news agency Yonhap cited an unidentified government official as saying the North’s navy vessel sank during a training mission off the port of Wonsan.
韩国国家联合通讯社(Yonhap)称，一个未具名政府官员表示，该朝鲜军舰是在元山港附近进行训练时沉没的。
North Korea rarely reports accidents involving its military. But during parliamentary briefings in recent months, South Korean officials have said accidents with human casualties are common in the North Korean military, which still relies on outdated equipment from the Soviet era and has trouble finding parts.
朝鲜很少报道军方事故。但在最近几个月的议会通报会中，韩国官员曾表示，朝鲜军方经常出现有人员伤亡的事故，他们仍然依靠苏联时代的陈旧设备，很难找到设备所需的零部件。
The building of a cemetery for the sailors and Mr. Kim’s visit there, which was prominently reported in the official North Korean news media, were seen as part of Mr. Kim’s attempt to bolster his image as a leader who cares about his troops. Since taking over as North Korea’s leader after the death of his father in 2011, Mr. Kim has frequently visited military units. The state news media has shown him riding in tanks and chatting with soldiers, hugging and hooking arms with them during visits to their barracks.
朝鲜官方新闻媒体突出报道了为船员建立公墓和金正恩拜祭公墓的举动，人们认为，这些举动是因为金正恩试图将自己塑造成一个关心士兵的领导人。金正恩于2011年父亲去世之后成为朝鲜领导人，此后频繁视察部队。官方新闻媒体曾展示金正恩视察军营时乘坐坦克，与士兵交谈，拥抱，勾肩搭背的图像。
“I can’t sleep when I think about those who left us at such young ages,” Mr. Kim was quoted as saying about the fallen sailors at the cemetery. He said all members of the North Korean military should learn from their dedication.
媒体报道称，金正恩在墓地提到遇难船员时说，“想到他们这么年轻就离开了我们，我难过得无法入睡。”他表示，朝鲜军队的所有成员都应该学习他们的奉献精神。
The two Koreas have fought several bloody naval skirmishes in recent decades in waters around a disputed western sea border. In 2010, the South blamed North Korea for the sinking of one of its warships and the deaths of 46 sailors. The North denied that it was responsible.
近几十年，朝韩两国在存在争议的西海边界的附近水域爆发了几次造成伤亡的海上冲突。2010年，韩国指责朝鲜击沉了韩国的一艘战舰，致使46名船员死亡。朝鲜否认对此事负有责任。