WASHINGTON — Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the Supreme Court on Thursday expressed regret for her recent remarks about the candidacy of Donald Trump, saying they were “ill-advised.”
华盛顿——周四，美国最高法院大法官鲁思·巴德尔·金斯伯格(Ruth Bader Ginsburg)对自己最近针对唐纳德·特朗普(Donald Trump)的竞选资质发表的言论表示后悔，称它们“有欠考虑”。
Earlier this week, Ginsburg called Trump “a faker” who “really has an ego” and said he had been treated too gently by the press. Trump, she said, “says whatever comes into his head at the moment” and has no consistency in his thinking. She also made critical remarks in interviews with The New York Times and The Associated Press.
本周早些时候，金斯伯格称特朗普是“一个骗子”，“的确非常自负”，还说媒体对他的态度太过温和。她认为，特朗普“脑子里当时冒出什么就说什么”，想法前后不一。在接受《纽约时报》和美联社(The Associated Press)采访时，她也发表了一些批评性的评论。
“On reflection, my recent remarks in response to press inquiries were ill-advised and I regret making them,” Ginsburg said in a statement Thursday. “Judges should avoid commenting on a candidate for public office. In the future I will be more circumspect.”
“回想起来，我近期应对媒体提问时发表的言论有些考虑不周，我为自己讲了这些话感到后悔，”金斯伯格在周四发布的声明中表示。“法官应该避免对竞选公职的候选人做出评价。未来我会更加谨慎。”
The brief statement was a rare, public admission of fault by a member of the Supreme Court, an institution which jealously guards its traditions and almost never acknowledges missteps in the conduct of the justices.
这份简短的声明非常罕见，显示出最高法院的一名成员公开承认自己有过失。该机构一直小心地维护自身的传统，几乎从不承认大法官的行为有任何不当之处。
It also came at a dramatic moment in the presidential campaign, with Trump preparing to name his vice-presidential pick Friday and then, next week, formally accept the Republican party’s nomination. The clash between a presidential candidate and a sitting Supreme Court justice is certain to further roil an already raucous campaign.
此事也发生在总统竞选中一个颇具戏剧性的时刻：特朗普将在周五宣布自己的副总统人选（法国尼斯袭击事件发生后，特朗普宣布将推迟公布竞选伙伴。——编注），下周他将正式接受共和党的总统提名。一名总统候选人和一名在任最高法院大法官之间的冲突，无疑会进一步搅动这场本就充满喧闹的竞选。
Trump had lashed back at the justice in recent days, and she was also criticized in editorials and by legal ethics experts.
最近几天，特朗普对金斯伯格进行了回击，多家媒体发表社论对她进行指责，一些法律伦理专家也表示了批评。
“I think it’s highly inappropriate that a United States Supreme Court judge gets involved in a political campaign, frankly,” Trump said in a telephone interview with The Times on Tuesday. “I think it’s a disgrace to the court, and I think she should apologize to the court. I couldn’t believe it when I saw it.”
“坦率地讲，我认为联邦最高法院大法官卷入政治竞选是极为不妥的，”特朗普周二在电话中接受时报采访时说。“我觉得这是让最高法院蒙羞的行为，我认为她应该向法院道歉。当时看到那些言论，我都无法相信是真的。”
Few legal experts had expected Ginsburg to offer the apology that Trump demanded. Justices typically remain largely out of the public eye and are insulated from political pressures and news media coverage that can compel action.
鲜有法律专家预料到金斯伯格会对特朗普的道歉要求做出反应。大法官一贯避开公众视野，与有可能带来强迫行为的政治压力和新闻报道绝缘。
But the torrent of criticism, especially from supporters and allies of Ginsburg, appears to have pierced that protection.
不过，这一轮势头强劲的指责，尤其是来自金斯伯格支持者与盟友的批评，似乎刺穿了这个保护层。
Former Justice Antonin Scalia, who died this year, was often the target of demands for apologies for his acerbic comments from the bench or in speeches. They generally did not materialize.
在今年去世之前，前任大法官安东宁·斯卡利亚(Antonin Scalia)常常因自己在法庭或演讲中的尖刻言论而被要求道歉。这些要求通常不会实现。