SEOUL, South Korea — North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, is disciplining the leadership of his country’s most powerful military organization, the latest sign of his efforts to tighten his grip on party elites and the armed forces amid a nuclear standoff with the United States, South Korea’s main intelligence agency said on Monday.
韩国首尔——韩国主要的情报机构周一表示，朝鲜领导人金正恩(Kim Jong-un)正在整肃该国最有影响力的军事机构的领导层，这是他在与美国陷入核僵局的情况下，加强对党内权贵和武装部队控制的最新迹象。
Analysts and experts pay close attention to any signs of rumbling within the secretive regime in Pyongyang, seeking to determine possible implications for the stability of Mr. Kim’s rule and for his nuclear and missile programs. They have said that Mr. Kim appeared to be using his tactic of instilling fear in the elites in order to strengthen his control as the country braced for the pain that is likely to result from recently imposed United Nations sanctions.
分析人士和专家正密切关注神秘的平壤政权内部出现斗争的一切迹象，试图确定它们对金正恩政权的稳定性及其核武器和导弹计划的可能影响。他们说，在朝鲜准备应对因为联合国最近实施的制裁而可能到来的痛苦之际，金正恩似乎正在利用让权贵阶层感到恐惧的策略，来强化自己的控制。
During a closed-door parliamentary briefing on Monday, South Korea’s National Intelligence Service told lawmakers that the North’s General Political Bureau was being “audited” by the country’s leadership for the first time in 20 years. The military organization’s director, Vice Marshal Hwang Pyong-so, and his deputies were “punished,” according to lawmakers who briefed reporters after the session.
周一，在一场闭门的国会情况通报会上，韩国国家情报院(National Intelligence Service)对议员们表示，朝鲜人民军总政治局(General Political Bureau)正在接受该国领导人的“纪律检查”，这是20年来的首次。根据在会后向记者介绍情况的议员称，该军事机构的负责人黄炳誓(Hwang Pyong-so)次帅和他的副手都受到了“惩罚”。
The General Political Bureau oversees the political life of North Korea’s 1.1-million-strong People’s Army, monitoring the loyalty of its officers. Vice Marshal Hwang has been widely considered the No. 2 man in Mr. Kim’s totalitarian regime.
总政治局负责朝鲜110万人民军(People’s Army)的政治生活，监督军官的忠心。黄炳誓一直被广泛认为是金正恩极权主义政权的二号人物。
The intelligence agency did not reveal how it obtained its information. But it did not use the phrases “purge” or “execution,” indicating that Vice Marshal Hwang was reprimanded but may still hold his job. He has not been seen in public since Oct. 13, according to the South Korean news media, which monitors the North’s state-run outlets.
韩国国家情报院没有透露它是如何获得信息的。但它没有使用“清洗”或“处决”的字眼，这表明黄炳誓虽然受到了训斥，但可能依然保住了职位。据监测朝鲜官方新闻机构的韩国新闻媒体报道，自10月13日以来，黄炳誓便没有在公众场合露面。
South Korean intelligence officials said the General Political Bureau was being audited for “impure attitude” and that the move was spearheaded by Choe Ryong-hae, a top official of the ruling Workers’ Party who gained more influence during a party meeting in early October. Intelligence officials in the South now believe that Mr. Choe is the head of the Department of Organization and Guidance, the party’s most powerful agency, which Mr. Kim uses to control the country’s political and military elite.
韩国情报官员称，总政治局受到审查是因为“态度不纯洁”，并表示审查由执政的劳动党(Workers’ Party)高层官员崔龙海(Choe Ryong-hae)领导。在10月初的一次党内会议上，崔龙海获得了更多影响力。韩国的情报官员现在认为，崔龙海是劳动党权力最大的机构组织指导部(Organization and Guidance Department)的负责人。金正日正是用该机构来控制朝鲜的政治和军事权贵的。
Mr. Choe and Vice Marshal Hwang have survived a series of often bloody purges that Mr. Kim has engineered to consolidate his authority since taking over the dynastic regime after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in 2011. They have emerged as Mr. Kim’s two closest allies.
金正恩在他的父亲金正日(Kim Jong-il)2011年去世后、接管这个王朝政权以来，策划了一系列往往充满血腥的清洗，以巩固自己的权威。崔龙海和黄炳誓幸存了下来，并成为金正恩最亲密的盟友。
But in the past few years, Vice Marshal Hwang has appeared closer to Mr. Kim than Mr. Choe, his name coming ahead of Mr. Choe’s in leadership rosters, a key indicator of the fortunes of various officials within the regime. Mr. Choe also suffered a setback in 2014, when Vice Marshal Hwang replaced him as head of the General Political Bureau.
但过去几年，黄炳誓与金正恩的关系似乎比崔龙海更亲密。他在领导人中的排名在崔龙海前面。这是朝鲜政权内部各类官员命运的关键标志。崔龙海2014年也遇到过挫折。当时，黄炳誓取代他成为总政治局的负责人。
In recent months, however, North Korea observers have begun noticing a shift.
然而，近几个月来，朝鲜观察人士开始注意到情况发生了变化。
When North Korean state media announced a recent leadership roster in October, Vice Marshal Hwang’s name had fallen behind those of Mr. Choe and Premier Pak Pong-ju, who is in charge of the economy.
当朝鲜官方媒体在10月宣布最近的领导人名单时，黄炳誓的名字落在了崔龙海和执掌经济大权的总理朴凤柱(Pak Pong-ju)的后面。
Like Mr. Pak, Mr. Choe was considered more of a pragmatic administrator than Vice Marshal Hwang, who has accompanied Mr. Kim far more frequently than Mr. Choe when the top leader inspected a recent series weapons tests.
和朴凤柱一样，崔龙海被认为是一位比黄炳誓更务实的管理者。在最高领导人金正恩视察最近的一系列武器试验时，黄炳誓陪在他身边的频率远高于崔龙海。 
The rise of Mr. Choe and Mr. Pak “reflects North Korea’s intention to focus on the economy and how to overcome international sanctions, now that it has succeeded in testing a hydrogen bomb,” Cheong Seong-chang, an analyst at the Sejong Institute, a South Korean think tank, wrote in a recent analysis. North Korea claimed to have detonated a thermonuclear device in a nuclear test on Sept. 3.
崔龙海和朴凤柱的崛起“反映了朝鲜由于已经成功试射一枚氢弹，因此打算把重点放在经济和如何克服国际制裁上”，韩国智库世宗研究院(Sejong Institute)的分析师郑相昌(Cheong Seong-chang)在最近的一篇分析文章中写道。朝鲜宣称在9月3日的一次核试验中引爆了一台热核装置。 
North Korea has not conducted any missile tests since Sept. 15, raising cautious hopes in the region that it might be moving to ease tensions and open talks with Washington.
自9月15日以来，朝鲜尚未进行任何导弹试验，这激起了该地区各方谨慎的希望，认为朝鲜也许会着手缓和紧张局势，与华盛顿展开对话。
One factor in the recent disciplinary action, an analyst said, is that Mr. Kim often pits his top lieutenants against one another to keep them in check and ensure their loyalty. Mr. Choe’s rise at the expense of Vice Marshal Hwang was also seen as reflecting Mr. Kim’s attempt to use the party to curb the influence of the military, which had eclipsed the party in influence under his father’s rule.
一名分析人士说，在最近这场整肃行动中，其中一个因素是金正恩经常让他的左膀右臂相互斗争，以便让他们相互牵制，并确保他们的忠诚。崔龙海的崛起和黄炳誓的衰落也被认为反映了金正恩试图利用劳动党来遏制军方的影响力。在他父亲的统治下，军方的影响力超过了劳动党。
Mr. Kim never tolerates any of his top aides accumulating enough power to challenge him. In 2013, he executed Jang Song-thaek, his uncle, who had been widely considered the No. 2 in his regime, for plotting to unseat him.
金正恩绝不容许任何一个高层助手积聚起足以挑战他的权力。2013年，他以密谋推翻他为由处决了姑父张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)。张成泽曾被广泛认为是金正恩政权的二号人物。