Today, on the second anniversary of Kim Jong-il’s death, only two of the seven officials who walked alongside his hearse at the state funeral, and his heir, Kim Jong-un, remain. Five have been stripped of their titles, sent to labor camps, or executed — as in the case of Jang Song-thaek.
今天，在金正日(Kim Jong-il)去世两周年之际，除其子金正恩(Kim Jong-un)外，当时国葬仪式上的七名扶灵官员只剩下了两人。另外那五人或被解职，或被送往劳改营，或像张成泽(Jang Song-thaek)那样被处决。
Mr. Jang had been seen as the No. 2 wielder of power in North Korea in recent years and as a top henchman of both the Great Leader, Kim Il-sung, his father-in-law, and of the Dear Leader, Kim Jong-il, his brother-in-law, for the past four decades. The news that he was executed on Thursday, for plotting a military coup against his nephew, the new Dear Leader, Kim Jong-un, is exceptional and especially frightening since he was a member (by marriage) of the Kim family.
近年来，张成泽一直被视为朝鲜的二号实权人物，而且，在过去四十年里，他一直被视作其岳父、伟大领袖金日成(Kim Il-sung)和他妻子的哥哥、敬爱的领袖金正日的亲信。因此，称他因密谋对自己的外甥，也就是新一任敬爱的领袖金正恩发动军事政变而在周四被处决的新闻令人颇感意外，而且让人异常恐惧。他身为姻亲，也是金氏家族的成员。
During that snowy winter two years ago when Kim Jong-il died, I was living in the suburbs of Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, for almost six months. I remember vividly the bone-aching chill of the Siberian winds, as well as the abruptness with which the news of the death was told to us. I was teaching English on an official exchange in a locked compound, guarded by armed soldiers. That year, all the universities around the country were shut down in preparation for the regime change, and students had been sent to the fields to build their “prosperous nation,” but the 270 sons of the elite, 19 and 20 years old, had been sent to this fortified campus to wait out an impending political storm.
两年前，在金正日去世的那个雪花纷飞的冬天，我在朝鲜首都平壤的郊区住了近半年。我清晰地记得北风带来的刺骨寒意，以及我们得知金正日去世这个消息时生出的突兀之感。当时，我参加了一个官方的交流项目，在一个有着全副武装的军人守护的封闭院落里教英语。那一年，为了给政权更替做准备，朝鲜全国的大学都停课了，学生们被送至田间去建设他们“繁荣的国家”。然而，精英阶层的270名子嗣，均是19或20岁的年龄，被送到了这所防守严密的学校，静等一场即将到来的政治风暴结束。
My students, sons of the elite, worshipped the Dear Leader, but on occasions, they had already begun mentioning their “Daejang-nim,” or “general,” referring to Kim Jong-un. They swore to loyally assist the young man — about whom not much was known — because he would surely continue to build, as his grandfather and father had done, their prosperous nation.
我教的学生都是精英人士的子嗣。他们崇拜亲爱的领袖，但偶尔已开始提到他们的“大将军”——金正恩。他们信誓旦旦地表示要忠心辅佐那个年轻人，因为他肯定会继续像其祖父和父亲那样，建设他们繁荣的国家，尽管外界当时对于此人知之甚少。
Even setting aside North Korea’s profound isolation as a nuclear rogue state, for Kim Jong-un to have an uncle executed is a grave debasement of Korean culture. Filial piety is at the Confucian core of some 6,000 years of Korean history. The greatest heartbreak of the Korean War of 1950 to 1953, which killed a tenth of the population and resulted in the division of the two Koreas, is its legacy of separating more than one million families.
即便抛开朝鲜被当做一个拥有核武器的流氓国家而被大范围孤立这一点，金正恩处决自己的姑父这一举动严重抹黑了朝鲜文化。在约6000年的朝鲜历史中，孝顺是儒家文化的核心。1950年到1953年的朝鲜战争导致十分之一的朝鲜人丧生，让朝鲜半岛分裂为朝韩两国，而这场战争最让人痛心的是它拆散了100多万个家庭。
I was born and raised in Seoul, South Korea. Both my mother and father had relatives go missing during the war, never to be heard from again. For Koreans, family ties are at the root of everything, and granting family reunions has long been used as a tactic in negotiations between the two Koreas. When South Koreans elected their first female president, Park Geun-hye, who took office in February, it was partly because she was the daughter of Park Chung-hee, the military dictator who ruled South Korea for 18 years. They were voting for a family, more than an individual.
我在韩国首尔出生和长大，父母均有亲戚在那场战争中失踪，他们从此杳无音讯。对朝鲜半岛的民众而言，家族关系是一切的根基。长期以来，在两国的谈判中，同意家庭团聚一直被当做一项策略。韩国人选出了首任女总统朴槿惠(Park Geun-hye)，在一定程度上是因为，今年2月上任的她是统治韩国18年的军事独裁者朴正熙(Park Chung-hee)的女儿。他们投票支持的是一个家族，而不是一个人。
On hearing the latest news from North Korea, I spoke to my father, who pointed out that not even Kim Il-sung or Kim Jong-il had dared to have a member of their own family publicly executed. My father expressed hopelessness about the future of North Korea and used a word that roughly translates as moral travesty or sin against heavenly logic, but is mostly used in the Confucian sense of a crime against one’s parent or elderly relative.
一听说朝鲜的最新消息，我立刻告诉了父亲。他说，即使是金日成或金正日，也不敢公开处决自己的家庭成员。我父亲说，朝鲜的未来已经毫无希望。父亲还用了一个词，可被翻译为有违天伦的罪过，意思差不多就是道德的扭曲，但主要还是在儒家学说中用来代指对父母或年长亲属犯下的罪过。
Mr. Jang was married for decades to Kim Jong-il’s only sister, Kim Kyong-hui, who appears to have survived the purge of her husband, to whom she was reportedly estranged. Mr. Jang had been a mentor to his nephew since Kim Jong-il had a stroke in 2008.
张成泽和金正日唯一的妹妹金敬姬(Kim Kyong-hui)已经结婚数十年了。后者似乎未受丈夫清洗的影响。据说，她和丈夫感情不和。自从金正日2008年中风之后，张成泽一直在侄子身边扮演着导师的角色。
The North Korean state media has since published a very long list of accusations against Mr. Jang, peppered with declarations such as “Our Party, nation, military, people know only Kim Il-sung, Kim Jong-il, Kim Jong-un, and no one else.” One of Mr. Jang’s chief crimes was challenging the “Paekdu bloodline.” Paekdu is the highest mountain range in the Korean peninsula where Kim Il-sung supposedly kept a revolutionary base to fight against Japanese colonizers, and where Kim Jong-il was said to have been born. The Paekdu bloodline may or may not protect Kim Jong-nam, Kim Jong-un’s elder half-brother, who has reportedly gone into hiding.
此后，朝鲜官方媒体公布了张成泽的一长串罪名，其间充斥着“我们的党、国家、军队、人民除了金日成、金正日和金正恩，谁都不认识”这样的宣言。张成泽的一个主要罪名是“挑战白头山血统”。白头山是朝鲜半岛最高的山脉，据称金日成在那里建立了抗日革命根据地，金正日据说在那里出生。白头山血统能否保护金正恩同父异母的哥哥金正男(Kim Jong-nam)仍然是未知数。据说金正男已经隐姓埋名。
The Stalinesque purge, however, has already extended to Mr. Jang’s own bloodline. Some of his relatives who have held diplomatic posts in Cuba and Malaysia have been called back to Pyongyang to face the consequences of being related to the man who had until recently been vice chairman of the National Defense Commission and chief of the central administrative department of the governing Workers’ Party, a man the North Korean media now calls “worse than trash, not even fit to be buried in the Korean soil.”
而且，斯大林式的清洗已经扩大到了与张成泽有血缘关系的亲属。在古巴和马来西亚担任外交职务的一些相关亲属已被召回平壤，将面对与张成泽有关的后果。不久前，张成泽还是朝鲜国防委员会副委员长、执政党劳动党(Workers’ Party)中央行政部部长，如今，朝鲜媒体说他“败类不如，在朝鲜疆土上死无葬身之地”。
The news media around the world has been busily guessing who will be the next victim of Kim Jong-un’s purge. But for the past few days, I have been recalling the young men I taught and lived with for half a year, feeling the hopelessness that my father refers to. From my time with them, I know that even the elite live in constant fear.
全世界的新闻媒体纷纷猜测，金正恩清洗行动的下一个受害者会是谁。但过去几天中我一直在回忆，在那半年的时间里教过并且一起生活过的那些年轻人，我感受到了父亲所说的那种绝望。从我同他们相处的那段时间来看，我知道，即使是精英也永远生活在恐惧之中。
On the morning following the announcement of Kim Jong-il’s death, I had to leave Pyongyang. Looking at my devastated students one final time, I wondered if perhaps they were about to face a better world. The “prosperous nation” which they had so earnestly sworn to build has turned a dark corner. The bastardization of the Korean spirit under the current Dear Leader seems to know no bounds: If he is capable of murdering family members, what else might he do?
在朝鲜宣布金正日死讯的第二天早上，我不得不离开平壤。当我最后一次看着那些遭受重创的学生，我在想，他们是否有可能迎来一个更美好的世界。但他们曾经如此热忱地发誓建立的那个“繁荣的国家”，已经转向了一个黑暗角落。在现任“敬爱的领袖”的领导之下，朝鲜的精神退化似乎已无下限：如果他已经能够残害家庭成员，还有什么不能做的？