LOS ANGELES —  The films “12 Years a Slave” and “American Hustle” emerged as awards front-runners on Thursday, as each picked up seven Golden Globe nominations, including best picture nods in their respective categories, just a day after being nominated for top prizes from Hollywood’s acting guild.
洛杉矶——电影《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)和《美国骗局》(American Hustle)成为周四金球奖提名中的领跑者，分别获得7项提名，包括其所在门类中的最佳影片奖。前一日它们刚刚获得好莱坞演员工会最高奖的提名。
The twin triumphs portend a possible awards season showdown between two very different films, one about an enslaved man’s fight for survival, the other about East Coast scammers in the disco era. But the two films are surrounded by an unusually strong field of contenders, some earnest, and some comically arch.
这两个巨大胜利预示着未来的最终大奖有可能被两部截然不同的影片瓜分——一部是关于一个被奴役的男人为生存而进行的斗争，另一部是关于迪斯科时代美国东海岸的骗子们。但这两部影片都有强劲的竞争对手环伺左右，其中有些热情真挚，有些诙谐滑稽。
Along with “12 Years a Slave,” the nominees for best drama are “Captain Phillips,” “Gravity,” “Philomena,” and “Rush.” The nod for “Rush,” Ron Howard’s Formula 1 racing film, was a surprise, after it received a mixed reaction from the audience and critics. Also unexpected was a snub for “Lee Daniels’ The Butler,” which received no nominations at all.
除了《为奴十二年》，获得最佳剧情类影片提名的还有《菲利普斯船长》(Captain Phillips)、《地心引力》(Gravity)、《菲洛梅娜》(Philomena)和《极速风流》(Rush)。《极速风流》是朗·霍华德(Ron Howard)关于一级方程式赛车的影片，观众和评论家对它褒贬不一，因此获得提名颇为出人意料。李·丹尼尔斯(Lee Daniels)的《白宫管家》(The Butler)受到冷遇，未获任何提名，也同样令人意外。
“American Hustle” was joined in the musical or comedy category by “Her,” “Inside Llewyn Davis,” “Nebraska” and “The Wolf of Wall Street.” Scott Rudin, a producer of both “Captain Phillips” and “Inside Llewyn Davis,” said that the liberal spread of kudos across a broad range of films revealed a surplus of sophisticated candidates, “fantastic news,” he added, “for those of us who love trying to make them and have to fight hard for those opportunities.”
在音乐与喜剧类别内，《美国骗局》的竞争对手有《她》(Her)、《醉乡民谣》(Inside Llewyn Davis)、《内布拉斯加》(Nebraska)和《华尔街之狼》(The Wolf of Wall Street)。《菲利普斯船长》和《醉乡民谣》的制片人斯科特·鲁丁(Scott Rudin)说，提名荣誉在众多电影之间广泛分配，表明精彩的候选影片有太多太多，“对于我们这些热爱拍摄电影，要为获奖机会努力奋斗的人来说，这是极好的消息，”他补充说。
Though it has sometimes been a dumping ground for films with no real Oscar prospects (awards aficionados are still scratching their heads at the nomination of “Salmon Fishing in the Yemen” last year), the musical/comedy category of these awards by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association became a fierce contest this time around. That happened as studios looked for an edge over heavy dramas like “12 Years a Slave” and “Gravity,” about a disaster in outer space, by pushing the comic aspects of bittersweet films like “Nebraska” and “Inside Llewyn Davis.”
金球奖由好莱坞外国记者协会(Hollywood Foreign Press Association)评出，尽管它有时堪称为无望获得奥斯卡奖的影片所设的倾销市场（热衷研究奖项的人仍在为去年《到也门钓鲑鱼》[Salmon Fishing in the Yemen]获得提名而困惑），但今年该奖项中音乐/喜剧类影片的角逐异常激烈。这是因为制片公司希望在《内布拉斯加》和《醉乡民谣》这样悲喜交集的影片中加强喜剧色彩，以图在同《为奴十二年》和关于太空灾难的《地心引力》等沉重的剧情片竞争时取得一点优势。
The strategy worked nicely for Paramount, which wound up with five nominations for its relatively small comedy-drama “Nebraska,” and it successfully put Martin Scorsese’s “The Wolf of Wall Street” into the awards mix, with nominations for not just the film but also for its star Leonardo DiCaprio. The prospects for Mr. Scorsese’s film had been an open question. It had been delivered late, has still been seen by few and was snubbed entirely by the Screen Actors Guild.
这种战略对于派拉蒙(Parammount)来说十分奏效，它推出的《内布拉斯加》是一部规模相对较小的喜剧剧情片，此次获得五项提名；它还成功令马丁·斯科塞斯(Martin Scorsese)的《华尔街之狼》获得数项提名——不仅该片本身，主演莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)也获得最佳男主演提名。斯科塞斯这部影片前景如何还悬而未决。因为它送交的时间较晚，还没什么人看过，亦受到演员工会(Screen Actors Guild)的彻底忽视。
“We know we’re late, but everyone is up for the challenge,” said Emma Tillinger Koskoff, one of the movie’s producers.
“我们知道我们晚了，但所有人都已准备好面临挑战，”该片制片人之一艾玛·特林格·科斯考夫(Emma Tillinger Koskoff)说。
Among those with much to gain at the Globes banquet, which will be held in Beverly Hills on Jan. 12, is Bruce Dern, the long-overlooked 77-year-old star of “Nebraska.” He was nominated as best actor in a comedy or musical, alongside Mr. DiCaprio; Christian Bale, for “American Hustle”; Oscar Isaac, for “Inside Llewyn Davis”; and Joaquin Phoenix, for “Her.”
金球奖颁奖盛典将于1月12日在贝弗利山庄举行，《内布拉斯加》中长期受到忽视的77岁男星布鲁斯·邓恩(Bruce Dern)是当天的获奖热门人选，他被提名为喜剧与音乐类最佳男演员，该类别中获得提名的还有迪卡普里奥，以及《美国骗局》中的克里斯蒂安·贝尔和《醉乡民谣》中的奥斯卡·伊萨克(Oscar Isaac)。
Golden Globe victories and a notably warm crowd reaction foretold a comeback-style Oscar nomination in 2009 for Mickey Rourke, for “The Wrestler,” and a perhaps overdue Oscar win the next year for Jeff Bridges, for “Crazy Heart.” Mr. Dern could potentially follow the same path.
金球奖上的收获与影迷的显著好评令2009年《摔角王》(The Wrestler)中的米基·洛克(Mickey Rourke)在奥斯卡提名中东山再起，更为2010年《疯狂的心》(Crazy Heart)中的杰夫·布里吉斯(Jeff Bridges)带来或许有些迟到的影帝荣誉。邓恩也有可能复制他们的成功。
Robert Redford, who is also 77 and has never won an acting Oscar, received a Globes nomination for his work in “All Is Lost,” about a struggle to survive at sea. Other nominees in the best dramatic actor category were Chiwetel Ejiofor, for “12 Years a Slave,” Idris Elba, for “Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom”; Tom Hanks, for “Captain Phillips”; and Matthew McConaughey, for “Dallas Buyers Club.”
同为77岁的罗伯特·雷德福(Robert Redford)也从未赢得过奥斯卡奖，他凭借在《一切尽失》(All Is Lost)中的表现获得金球奖提名，该片讲述了一个在大海中挣扎求生的故事。其他剧情类最佳男演员提名获得者还包括《为奴十二年》中的切瓦特·埃加福特(Chiwetel Ejiofor)、《曼德拉：漫漫自由路》(Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom)中的伊德瑞斯·艾尔巴(Idris Elba)、《菲利普斯船长》(Captain Phillips)中的汤姆·汉克斯(Tom Hanks)和《达拉斯买家俱乐部》(Dallas Buyers Club)中的马修·麦康纳(Matthew McConaughey)。
As Hollywood furiously read this new set of tea leaves, it was easy for the industry to forget the fun. But that was not the case for Daniel Brühl, a supporting actor nominee for his role as the racing star Niki Lauda in “Rush.” Reached in Siena, Italy, a euphoric Mr. Brühl said: “I’m jumping up and down in the streets! Niki Lauda texted me five minutes ago, and he’s going to fly me to L.A. in his private jet, which sounds pretty cool to me.”
提名揭晓后，好莱坞忙着分析这些新的征兆，整个行业很容易忘记享受乐趣。不过丹尼尔·布鲁赫(Daniel Brühl)却并非如此，他在《极速风流》中饰演赛车明星尼基·劳达（Niki Lauda，根据真人事迹改编——译注），并因此获得最佳男配角提名。欣喜若狂的布鲁赫在意大利锡耶纳接受采访时说：“我在街上跳来跳去，尼基·劳达五分钟前刚给我发了短信，他要用私人飞机送我去洛杉矶，我觉得这可真酷啊。”
In television, HBO once more proved to be the leader, scoring nine nominations, including one for “Girls,” as best comedy series, and another for best actress for its star, Lena Dunham, as well as nods for both Matt Damon and Michael Douglas for their leading performances in “Behind the Candelabra.”
在电视方面，HBO台再一次成为领跑者，获得9项提名，其中包括《都市女孩》(Girls)获得最佳喜剧片提名，主演莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)获得最佳女演员提名，《烛台背后》(Behind the Candelabra)中的马特·达蒙(Matt Damon)与迈克尔·道格拉斯(Michael Douglas)也分获最佳男主角提名。
Netflix, the streaming service that is a relative newcomer to the television game, had six nominations, including “House of Cards,” as best dramatic series, as well as acting nods for three of its stars, Kevin Spacey, Corey Stoll and Robin Wright. Starz and Showtime also posted six nominations each.
流媒体服务商Netflix是电视业内的新来者，此次获得6项提名，其中《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)获得最佳剧情类剧集提名，其中三位演员凯文·史派西(Kevin Spacey)、寇瑞·斯托尔(Corey Stoll)与罗宾·怀特(Robin Wright)也分获提名。Starz与映时(Showtime)亦各自获得六项提名。
One of the biggest surprises also came from television. Showtime’s “Homeland,” an Emmy favorite and a Golden Globe winner in several major categories last year, including best drama, was shut out.
最为出人意料的消息也出在电视剧领域：映时频道的《国土安全》(Homeland)是艾美奖热门，也是去年金球奖最佳剧情类剧集等数项大奖得主，今年却被金球奖拒之门外。
There were also a few surprises in the actress categories, where Cate Blanchett (“Blue Jasmine”) and Sandra Bullock (“Gravity”) were nominated as expected, but Kate Winslet was an unanticipated nominee for “Labor Day.”
女演员奖项中亦有若干黑马，主演《蓝色茉莉》(Blue Jasmin)的凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)和主演《地心引力》的桑德拉·布洛克(Sandra Bullock)获得提名都属众望所归，但凯特·温丝莱特(Kate Winslet)凭《劳动节》(Labor Day)中的表现获提名却令人始料不及。
Despite a strong run of Globes nominations for “American Hustle,” including one for its director, David O. Russell, the film still has something to prove for the Academy Awards, which will be handed out on March 2, because of its reliance on the comedy category. By and large, Oscar voters like their best picture winners to have a sense of importance.
《美国骗局》在金球奖上获得诸多提名，包括为大卫·O·拉塞尔(David O. Russell)赢得最佳导演提名，但影片在3月2日的奥斯卡奖上成绩如何还有待验证。因为该片被归为喜剧类，而奥斯卡奖的评选者们总的来说希望最佳影片得主具有厚重感。
That gives at least a slight edge to “12 Years a Slave,” whose director, Steve McQueen, also received a directing nomination. His slavery drama was an early favorite among Oscar handicappers, but seemed to slip, as “Gravity,” another strong contender, surged past it at the box office, and some viewers — and rival studio executives — tagged it as being tough to watch because of its explicit scenes of violence in the old South.
因此《为奴十二年》至少略有优势，其导演史蒂夫·麦奎因(Steve McQueen)也获得了最佳导演提名。这部以奴隶制为题材的剧情片是奥斯卡评委们的早期宠儿，但它也有可能败给另一个有力的竞争者——《地心引力》，因为后者的票房明显超过了它。一些观众以及竞争制片公司的主管们认为该片观赏起来很是辛苦，因为它直截了当地展现了历史上美国南方的暴力场面。
Surprisingly, some key film critics awards overlooked “12 Years a Slave.” But its strong showing in the Globes nominations once again makes it look like the film to beat.
令人惊讶的是，一些重要的影评人奖项也无视了《为奴十二年》。但它在金球奖提名上的强势再一次令它成为最佳影片获奖热门。
This is a crowded year, however, and it will take more than a boost from the Globes to create the inevitable sense of victory achieved by contenders like “Slumdog Millionaire,” in 2009, or “The Artist,” in 2012, which both went on to win the Oscar for best picture.
不管怎样，这是一个佳片众多的年份，获得金球奖对于影片来说是一个巨大推动，可以营造志在必得的感觉，正如2009年的《贫民区的百万富翁》(Slumdog)和2012年的《艺术家》(The Artist)，这两部影片都在金球奖上大放光彩之后又接着获得了奥斯卡最佳电影。
As for Woody Allen, his position was secure even before the Golden Globe nominations were announced. He will receive a lifetime achievement award at the Globes, and, in keeping with his longstanding tradition, will not show up to claim it. Diane Keaton, who starred in several of his films, is supposed to stand in.
至于伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)，他的地位早在金球奖提名揭晓前便已确定。他将获得金球奖终身成就奖，为保持长期以来的习惯，他不会出席颁奖典礼。主演过他若干部影片的黛安·基顿(Diane Keaton)将代他领奖。