“American Hustle” left a messy Golden Globes as the big winner on Sunday, capturing three major awards, including best comedy. But voters stayed true to form and spread their love around, handing best drama to an otherwise ignored “12 Years a Slave” and best director to Alfonso Cuarón, for “Gravity.”
在本周日一片混乱的金球奖上，《美国骗局》(American Hustle)成了大赢家，一举赢得三项大奖，其中包括最佳喜剧片奖。但是不出所料，投票者们很博爱，他们把最佳剧情类影片奖授给了相对受人忽视的《为奴十二年》(12 Years a Slave)，把最佳导演奖授给了《地心引力》(Gravity)的导演阿方索·卡隆(Alfonso Cuarón)。
The two female stars of “American Hustle,” Amy Adams and Jennifer Lawrence, both picked up acting awards. Ms. Lawrence beat out Lupita Nyong’o of “12 Years a Slave,” who was viewed as the leading contender, in the supporting actress category. “I don’t know why I’m so scared,” said a shaking Ms. Lawrence.
《美国骗局》中的两位女星，埃米·亚当斯(Amy Adams)和詹妮弗·劳伦斯(Jennifer Lawrenc)双双获奖。劳伦斯击败主要竞争对手，《为奴十二年》中的露皮塔·尼永奥(Lupita Nyong’o)，获得最佳女配角奖。“我不知道自己为什么这么害怕，”劳伦斯颤抖着说。
Not long afterward, Ms. Adams captured the best actress prize.
不久后，亚当斯摘取了最佳女主角桂冠。
“Dallas Buyers Club” received two acting prizes, for Jared Leto as supporting actor and for the heavily campaigned Matthew McConaughey as best actor in a drama. Woody Allen’s “Blue Jasmine” won a best actress award for Cate Blanchett, and Mr. Allen took home the Cecil B. DeMille lifetime achievement award, though he was predictably absent from the ceremony.
《达拉斯买家俱乐部》(Dallas Buyers Club)获得两项表演奖：杰瑞德·莱托(Jared Leto)获得剧情类最佳男配角奖，事前大肆宣传的马修·麦康纳(Mattew McConaughey)获得剧情类最佳男主角奖。凭借在伍迪·艾伦(Woody Allen)的《蓝色茉莉》(Blue Jasmine)中的表现，凯特·布兰切特(Cate Blanchett)获得最佳女主角奖，艾伦获得塞西尔·德米尔(Cecil B. DeMille)终身成就奖，尽管不出所料，他没有出席颁奖礼。
Globes voters even found room for Leonardo DiCaprio — even if they had to stretch.
金球奖投票者们甚至为莱昂纳多·迪卡普里奥(Leonardo DiCaprio)找到了一席之地——虽然说有些勉强。
“I never would have guessed that I would have won for best actor in a comedy,” said Mr. DiCaprio, who won best actor for his performance in the rather grim “The Wolf of Wall Street.”
“我从来都不敢想自己会因为一部喜剧片获得最佳男主演奖，”他因在相对冷峻的喜剧片《华尔街之狼》(The Wolf of Wall Street)中的表现获得喜剧类最佳男主演奖。
Some of the bigger surprises, however, came from television.
不过更大的意外来自电视类奖项。
“Oh, no! I didn’t prepare anything!” said a clearly flabbergasted Andy Samberg, a best comedic actor winner for the Fox series “Brooklyn Nine-Nine.” The show later emerged as a surprise winner as best television comedy, besting HBO’s “Girls.”
“啊，不！我什么都没准备！”安迪·萨姆伯格(Andy Samberg)显然目瞪口呆，他因在福克斯台(Fox)的《这个警察有点烦》(Brooklyn Nine-Nine)中的表现获得喜剧类最佳男主演。其后这部剧集出人意料地击败了HBO的《都市女孩》(Girls)获得最佳喜剧类电视剧奖。
Amy Poehler, returning as co-host along with Tina Fey, was almost as flummoxed when her name was called as best actress in a comedy for “Parks and Recreation.” She delivered the type of rote, I’d-like-to-thank-my-manager speech that, in her hosting role, she might have skewered. (It was her first big acting prize.)
埃米·波勒(Amy Poehler)与蒂娜·菲(Tina Fey)共同主持了颁奖礼。在听到自己因《公园与游憩》(Parks and Receation)中的表现获得喜剧类最佳女主演奖时，波勒的表现近乎慌乱。之后她发表了老套的“感谢我的经纪人”式的致辞，这种致辞是身为主持人的她可能会嘲讽的致辞（这是她第一次获得重大表演奖项）。
“Breaking Bad” made back-to-back trips to the stage, winning trophies for best drama and best actor, for Bryan Cranston. Mr. Cranston, nominated four times for his role as a teacher who was also a crystal meth dealer, received a raucous standing ovation for his first victory. The prizes were a double defeat for Netflix, whose “House of Cards” was a hot competitor in the categories.
《绝命毒师》(Breaking Bad)再次回到舞台，赢得最佳剧情类电视剧奖，并为布莱恩·科兰斯顿(Bryan Cranston)赢得最佳演员奖。布兰斯顿在剧中饰演一个贩卖冰毒的老师角色，曾因此角四次获得该奖项提名，如今才第一次获奖，他获得了观众们热烈的起立欢呼。而Netflix频道则受到了双重打击，它的《纸牌屋》(House of Cards)在两个奖项中都被视为热门竞争者。
Saving some face for the Netflix series was Robin Wright, who received the Globe for best actress in a TV drama (and managed to recover from a slight wardrobe malfunction).
不过罗宾·怀特(Robin Wright)为Netflix挽回了一丝颜面，她获得了剧情类电视剧最佳女主演奖（颁奖礼上她的服装出了点小问题，好歹还是解决了）。
The chatter in Hollywood, of course, was instantly as much about the snubs as the winners. “Nebraska,” “Philomena,” “August: Osage County” and “Captain Phillips” were shut out, even though each arrived at the ceremony with multiple nominations.
当然，好莱坞给予失败者们的议论和给予胜利者的议论一样多。《内布拉斯加》(Nebraska)、《菲洛梅娜》(Philomena)、《八月：奥色治郡》(August: Osage County)和《菲利普斯船长》(Captain Phillips)都铩羽而归，尽管它们都获得多项提名。
The telecast was peppered with minor mishaps, including bleeped expletives, a miscued teleprompter and long walks to the stage, even for those seated at stage-side tables. To make up time, or at least not eat up any more time, producers awkwardly interrupted most of the winners with music — trying to hustle Ms. Adams off the stage, for instance, as she was accepting her award. She managed an elegant speech nonetheless.
颁奖礼的电视直播充满各种小事故，有脏话被屏蔽、一台提词机被撞歪、上台要走半天，就算坐在舞台旁边桌前的人也是如此。为了赶时间，至少是为了不再消耗更多时间，大多数获奖人的话都被制作人用音乐笨拙地打断——比如亚当斯女士领奖时，他们催她快点下台。不过她还是想方设法发表了优雅的讲话。
A ponytailed Mr. Leto was not as lucky, starting his speech by trying a slightly off-color joke about waxing his body that drew nervous giggles from the crowd. Producers played him off with more music.
梳着马尾辫的莱托先生就没那么幸运了，他试图用一个有些下流的笑话作为开场白，说自己给身体除毛的趣事，引来观众席上神经质的咯咯笑声。制作人们用更多的音乐把他赶下台去。
Spike Jonze won best screenplay for “Her,” about a man who falls in love with his computer. Mr. Jonze managed to thank a few Hollywood insiders and neatly summarize a problem that many of his fellow winners seemed to suffer: “I’m bad at speaking English,” he said, “and it’s the only language I know.”
斯派克·琼斯(Spike Jonze)因《她》(Her)获得最佳剧本奖。该剧讲述一个男人爱上自己的电脑的故事。琼斯感谢了几个好莱坞的圈内人，并总结了和其他很多获奖者共同遇到的一个问题：“我英语说得不太好，但我只会说这种语言。”
The Italian film “The Great Beauty” won in the foreign language category.
意大利影片《绝美之城》(The Great Beauty)获得最佳外语片奖。
In some ways, the trophy race was almost a secondary draw: A big portion of the TV audience and many of the honorees, at least judging from their red-carpet comments, were here to see Ms. Fey and Ms. Poehler follow up their much-praised performance last year and try to outwit themselves as hosts.
从某种角度讲，奖项角逐对观众的吸引力几乎是排在第二位的：有许多电视观众和领奖者们（至少从他们在红毯上的发言来判断），都更想看蒂娜·菲和波勒继去年大受好评的主持表现之后，今年要如何超越自己。
Fortunately for them, a season that has found Sandra Bullock and George Clooney lost in space, Robert Redford lost at sea, and Meryl Streep lost in a pill-popping haze provided ample material. “It’s the story of how George Clooney would rather float away into space and die than spend one more minute with a woman his own age,” Ms. Fey said of “Gravity.”
对于她们来说，幸运的是，今年有桑德拉·布洛克(Sandra Bullock)和乔治·克鲁尼(George Clooney)在太空中迷失、罗伯特·雷德福德(Robert Redford)在大海中迷失、梅丽尔·斯特里普(Meryl Streep)在嗑药的迷雾中迷失，这为她们提供了大量素材。“这是一个乔治·克鲁尼如何宁愿在太空中漂浮到死，也不愿和一个同龄女人一起多呆一分钟的故事，”菲这样评价《地心引力》。
The hosts stayed almost completely on topic, swapping inside movie humor — some that worked, some that didn’t — and avoiding political humor. There was no grand moment when they or the movies seemed to say something about anything other than themselves. “This was the beautiful mess we hoped it would be,” Ms. Fey said, closing the show.
两位主持人几乎一直紧扣主题，展现有关电影的幽默——有些好笑，有些不好笑——避免开政治玩笑。当她们，乃至电影试图讲些超越自身的东西时，并没有出现任何宏大的时刻。“我们希望带来这些美好的混乱，”菲用这样一句话结束了颁奖礼。
By and large, the entertainment industry has stopped laughing at the Globes and their idiosyncratic organizer, the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. Made up of about 85 mostly freelance journalists, the writers’ group now only occasionally strays into puzzlements that used to be commonplace (Pia Zadora, New Star of the Year, 1981). Heading into this year’s ceremony, some awards analysts marveled that voters actually seemed to nominate the year’s most worthy films and performances.
总的来说，娱乐业已经不再嘲笑金球奖和它乖僻的组织者：好莱坞外国记者协会。该协会有大约85名成员，其中大部分是自由记者，这个写作者团体过去经常犯迷糊（比如1981年的年度新星奖得主皮娅·查多拉[Pia Zadora]），现在只是偶尔发作而已。今年的颁奖礼上，一些奖项分析者表示很惊奇——评委们似乎真的选出了本年度最有价值的影片和演员。
Sunday’s ceremony at the Beverly Hilton Hotel here arrived with somewhat gloomy skies and the threat of strong Santa Ana winds, befitting the moody pictures hoping to leave as winners — films about violent servitude (“12 Years a Slave”), AIDS in the 1980s (“Dallas Buyers Club”) and baby-selling nuns (“Philomena”). Jonah Hill’s nearly choking to death on Quaaludes (“The Wolf of Wall Street”) qualified as a lighter moment.
星期日的颁奖礼在贝弗利山希尔顿酒店举行，天空有些阴郁，面临圣塔·安娜(Santa Ana)强风威胁，与那些有望获奖的影片中阴沉的画面相得益彰——《为奴十二年》是关于暴力奴役、《达拉斯买手俱乐部》是关于20世纪80年代的艾滋病、《菲洛梅娜》是关于贩卖婴儿的修女。《华尔街之狼》中约拿·希尔(Jonah Hill)差点因为服用安眠酮窒息而死，算是较为轻松的时刻。
Portions of the 30,000 square feet of red carpet flooded in the afternoon after a light apparently set off a fire sprinkler. (Eight men in gray sweatshirts promptly arrived with vacuums and squeegees.)
红毯占地三万平方英尺，当天下午，其中一部分因为火警洒水器被触发而被弄湿了（其后八个穿灰色工作服的男人很快带着吸尘器和橡胶扫帚赶来）。
Later, if actresses weren’t in white, they went for bold colors: Lena Dunham wore canary yellow, while Reese Witherspoon was in aquamarine. Taylor Swift, a best-song nominee for “Sweeter Than Fiction” from “One Chance,” a movie that has yet to open widely — and a cranky target last year of teasing by Ms. Fey and Ms. Poehler — wore red and black.
后来的红毯秀上，女演员们不是穿白色，就是穿着十分大胆的颜色。莉娜·杜汉姆(Lena Dunham)穿淡黄色，瑞茜·威瑟斯彭(Reese Witherspoon)穿水绿色。泰勒·斯威夫特(Taylor Swift)因尚未广泛公映的影片《成名机会》(One Chance)中的《比小说还美》(Sweeter Than Fiction)一曲获得最佳歌曲提名，她去年是菲和波勒开玩笑的古怪靶子，今年穿着红黑两色的礼服。
There was a notable absence: Mr. Allen, who made clear in advance that he would not personally accept his promised lifetime achievement award. A singing Diane Keaton accepted it on his behalf.
伍迪·艾伦的缺席格外引人注目，他在颁奖礼之前就已宣布自己不会亲自来接受已经定好的终身成就奖。对他大加赞美的黛安·基顿(Diane Keaton)前来替他领奖。
The Globes are scrutinized each year for clues about which people and films will win at the Academy Awards. In truth, they do not predict much. This year, Oscar nomination voting ended on Wednesday. The results will be unveiled on Thursday morning, leaving the Golden Globes in an Oscar safe zone, limiting the effect of minor victories or major gaffes.
人们每年都会仔细从金球奖中寻找线索，试图从中发现哪些人、哪些影片有望获得奥斯卡奖。事实上，从金球奖中预测不出多少东西。今年奥斯卡提名投票在上周三结束。结果将在本周四上午公布，因此金球奖完全不受奥斯卡奖影响，金球奖上的小胜或大败都不会产生什么效果。
Still, even the perception of momentum will be seized upon by prognosticators, who could point to the Globes’ best-drama victory for “Argo” last year as a prelude to its Oscar for best picture six weeks later.
不过，预言家们能凭直觉把握大势所趋，他们去年就预言过，《逃离德黑兰》(Argo)获得金球奖最佳影片是其六周后赢得奥斯卡奖最佳影片的先兆。
And the Hollywood Foreign Press Association’s golden trophies are valued here, partly because of the bragging rights that will help lift the more heavily honored films at the box office. Studio marketers will race to put out ads on Monday morning trumpeting wins.
好莱坞外国记者协会评出的金球奖受到重视，部分是因为获得大量奖项的影片可以以此自夸，从而提升票房收入。制片公司的市场人员都会竞相在周一上午为获奖影片推出广告。
Behind the scenes, publicists and show planners had been in a tug of war over seating in the ballroom at the Beverly Hilton, which can handle only about 1,000 guests — a tight squeeze, as the nominees, agents, executives and associated retinues added up quickly. The annual jostling has been aggravated by new players like Netflix.
在幕后，宣传人员和排片者们在为贝弗利希尔顿酒店大厅的座位分布展开苦战，该大厅能容纳约1000名宾客，非常拥挤，提名者、经纪人、公司执行人和随行人员的人数很快就能达到上限。Netflix这样的新来者使得每年例行的竞争更为激烈。
For Netflix this is enemy territory. HBO, a Globes perennial, typically owns much of the floor, and Sunday was no exception, even though it had only nine nominations, down from 17 last year.
Netflix可谓是在敌军领土上作战。HBO是金球奖的常客，一般都能占据大量座位，周日的颁奖礼上也是如此，虽然今年它只获得9项提名，比去年的17项提名少了很多。
The after-parties also became a battleground this year. Netflix paired with the Weinstein Company for an event at a far-flung corner of the hotel. HBO, ceding nothing, draped the hotel’s poolside Circa 55 supper club and its adjoining patio in gold and red print cloth, with what appeared to be jaguar-skin settees.
今年颁奖礼后的派对也成了战场。Netflix协同韦恩斯坦公司(Weinstein Company)，在酒店宽敞的一角举办了庆祝活动。HBO毫不退让，把泳池边的Circa 55晚餐俱乐部和毗邻的露台都用金红色的印花布覆盖起来，下面盖住的好像是豹纹沙发。