RIO DE JANEIRO — At a meeting in Brazil, the leaders of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa announced on Tuesday that they were establishing a development bank to challenge the influence of venerable institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
里约热内卢——本周二，在巴西的一次会议上，巴西、俄罗斯、印度、中国和南非领导人宣布，他们正在组建一家开发银行，挑战世界银行(World Bank)和国际货币基金组织（International Monetary Fund，简称IMF）等历史悠久的机构的影响力。
The New Development Bank, which will be based in Shanghai, will open with an initial capitalization of $50 billion. India will name the first president, according to a statement from the leaders of the so-called BRICS group of nations who have gathered in the northeastern city of Fortaleza, and Russia and Brazil will select other top officers.
金砖国家开发银行(New Development Bank)的总部将设在上海，初期启动资金为500亿美元（约合3000亿元人民币）。这些来自所谓金砖国家集团(BRICS)的领导人在在巴西东北部城市福塔雷萨聚首，据他们发表的一份声明，第一任行长将由印度任命，俄罗斯和巴西将挑选银行的其他高管。
The five-nation bloc also said it would create a $100 billion fund of currency reserves for members to use during balance of payments crises. Pointing to concerns that the United States Federal Reserve was stepping back in its aggressive efforts to stimulate the American economy, possibly opening the way for interest rate increases in the United States, Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff, said the fund could mitigate the volatility that could emerge from such shifts.
该五国集团还表示，将为成员国创建一笔1000亿美元的储备基金，以供各国遭遇国际收支差额危机时使用。巴西总统迪尔玛·罗塞夫(Dilma Rousseff)指出，美联储(United States Federal Reserve)撤销刺激美国经济的积极举措让人感到担忧，此举可能是在为美国加息铺路，罗塞夫以此为例表示，储备基金能缓解此类变化可能引发的波动。
“This provides security, a kind of safety net for BRICS countries and others,” Ms. Rousseff said.
罗塞夫说，“这笔基金为金砖国家和其他国家提供了安全保障和某种安全网。”
Taken together, the New Development Bank and the contingency fund reflect ambitions of forging a new global economic framework.
总的来看，金砖国家开发银行和应急储备基金反映了金砖集团构建新的全球经济架构的野心。
Nations like Brazil already have huge development banks that dwarf the World Bank in size. Still, leaders in emerging economic powers chafe at the policy prescriptions coming from the World Bank and the I.M.F., which emerged from the Bretton Woods monetary conference in New Hampshire 70 years ago.
巴西等国已有的巨型开发银行让世界银行的规模都相形见绌。尽管如此，发展中经济大国的领导人对世界银行和IMF开出的政策处方仍然颇有微词，这两个机构是以70年前于新罕布什尔州举行的布雷顿森林(Bretton Woods)货币会议为基础演化而成。
While the United States has long wielded influence in the global economy through those institutions, China, which accounts for about 70 percent of the collective gross national product of the countries represented at Fortaleza, has tried to play down its staggering economic weight in the bloc. But that could change over time, analysts said, if animus grows over China’s trade surpluses with other members.
美国长期以来一直通过这些机构发挥影响，但在福塔雷萨峰会所代表的国家总国内生产总值中占比约为70%的中国，却努力淡化自己在该集团惊人的经济影响力。不过有分析人士称，如果对中国与其他成员国之间的贸易顺差导致敌意增加，这一点可能会随着时间的推移发生改变。
“There may be potential cracks in the facade of unity once China asserts its interests,” said Eric Farnsworth, vice president of the Council of the Americas and the Americas Society in the United States.
“一旦中国坚持自己的利益，团结的表象便可能出现裂痕，”美洲理事会(Council of the Americas)和美国美洲协会(Americas Society)副主席埃里克·法恩斯沃思(Eric Farnsworth)说。
The BRICS countries face other challenges like slowing economic growth.
金砖国家面临着经济增长日渐放缓等其他挑战。
While Jim O’Neill, the former Goldman Sachs executive who coined the term BRIC 2001 (before South Africa joined the group in 2011), had predicted that Brazil would grow 5 percent a year over this decade, the economy has eked out much slower growth since 2011, forecast at just 1.6 percent this year.
尽管在2001年首创“金砖四国”（后来南非于2011年加入该集团）这个词的前高盛(Goldman Sachs)高管吉姆·奥尼尔(Jim O'Neill)预言，在这十年期间巴西的年增幅将为5%，但自2011年开始，巴西经济勉力维持的增速远低于此，今年预计仅为1.6%。