STANFORD, Calif. — NEARLY five years after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers touched off a global financial crisis, we are no safer. Huge, complex and opaque banks continue to take enormous risks that endanger the economy. From Washington to Berlin, banking lobbyists have blocked essential reforms at every turn. Their efforts at obfuscation and influence-buying are no surprise. What’s shameful is how easily our leaders have caved in, and how quickly the lessons of the crisis have been forgotten.
加利福尼亚州斯坦福——将近五年前，雷曼兄弟(Lehman Brothers)的破产引起了一场全球金融危机。如今，我们也并未更加安全。庞大、复杂而不透明的银行仍在承担着极大的风险，可能对经济产生威胁。从华盛顿到柏林，银行业的游说者对关键改革的每一个环节都进行了阻挠。他们混淆视听、花钱买影响力的举动并不令人惊讶。令人羞愧的是，我们的领导人竟然如此轻易地表示了屈服，而且人们也迅速忘记了上次危机的教训。
We will never have a safe and healthy global financial system until banks are forced to rely much more on money from their owners and shareholders to finance their loans and investments. Forget all the jargon, and just focus on this simple rule.
除非银行被迫在贷款和投资时，更加依赖银行所有者和股东的资金，否则国际金融体系绝不会变得安全和健康。请忘记所有的行话，仅仅关注这条简单的原则。
Mindful, perhaps, of the coming five-year anniversary, regulators have recently taken some actions along these lines. In June, a committee of global banking regulators based in Basel, Switzerland, proposed changes to how banks calculate their leverage ratios, a measure of how much borrowed money they can use to conduct their business.
或许由于五周年纪念日即将到来，监管者最近按照上述原则采取了一些行动。6月，一个总部位于瑞士巴塞尔，由全球银行业监管者组成的委员会提出，要改变银行计算自身杠杆率的方式，杠杆率衡量的是银行可以拿多少借入的资金开展经营活动。
Last month, federal regulators proposed going somewhat beyond the internationally agreed minimum known as Basel III, which is being phased in. Last Monday, President Obama scolded regulators for dragging their feet on implementing Dodd-Frank, the gargantuan 2010 law that was supposed to prevent another crisis but in fact punted on most of the tough decisions.
上个月，联邦监管部门提出，银行业要做的不仅是要遵守国际上取得共识的最低行业标准《巴塞尔协议III》(Basel III)，该协议正在逐步生效。上周一，奥巴马总统批评，监管部门对《多德-弗兰克法案》(Dodd-Frank Act)的实施并不积极。这个内容庞杂的法案于2010年得到通过，它的本来目的是阻止另一场危机，但实际上却迟迟未能在大多数最艰难的决定上发挥作用。
Don’t let the flurry of activity confuse you. The regulations being proposed offer little to celebrate.
你千万别被这一连串举动迷惑了，他们提出的监管措施根本没什么值得高兴的。
From Wall Street to the City of London comes the same wailing: requiring banks to rely less on borrowing will hurt their ability to lend to companies and individuals. These bankers falsely imply that capital (unborrowed money) is idle cash set aside in a vault. In fact, they want to keep placing new bets at the poker table — while putting taxpayers at risk.
从华尔街到伦敦金融城，银行业者都发出了同样的哭号：要求银行减少对借款的依赖，就会将会损害它们向企业和个人发放贷款的能力。这些银行业者作出了虚假的暗示，称资本（非借入资金）是被放在金库里的闲置资金。其实，他们希望的是继续在牌桌上押注，同时却让纳税人承担风险。
When we deposit money in a bank, we are making a loan. JPMorgan Chase, America’s largest bank, had $2.4 trillion in assets as of June 30, and debts of $2.2 trillion: $1.2 trillion in deposits and $1 trillion in other debt (owed to money market funds, other banks, bondholders and the like). It was notable for surviving the crisis, but no bank that is so heavily indebted can be considered truly safe.
我们把钱存在银行里，就是在放贷。截至6月30日，美国最大的银行摩根大通(JPMorgan Chase)共有2.4万亿美元（约合14.7万亿元人民币）资产，2.2万亿美元负债：1.2万亿美元的存款和1万亿美元其他形式的债务（债权人是货币基金、其他银行和债券持有者等）。众所周知，摩根大通顺利地在危机中幸存了下来，但是没人认为负债如此严重的银行是真正安全的。
The six largest American banks — the others are Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley — collectively owe about $8.7 trillion. Only a fraction of this is used to make loans. JPMorgan Chase used some excess deposits to trade complex derivatives in London — losing more than $6 billion last year in a notoriously bad bet.
美国六家最大的银行——其他几家是美国银行(Bank of America)、花旗集团(Citigroup)、富国银行(Wells Fargo)、高盛(Goldman Sachs)和摩根士丹利(Morgan Stanley)——的总负债共计约为8.7万亿美元，其中只有一小部分用于放贷。摩根大通用一些额外存款在伦敦进行复杂的金融衍生品交易，众所周知，它去年因为赌运不佳而损失了60多亿美元。
Risk, taken properly, is essential for innovation and growth. But outside of banking, healthy corporations rarely carry debts totaling more than 70 percent of their assets. Many thriving corporations borrow very little.
适当的风险对于创新和增长是必要的。但是在银行业以外，健康企业的负债很少会超过总资产的70%，很多蒸蒸日上的企业债务都很少。
Banks, by contrast, routinely have liabilities in excess of 90 percent of their assets. JPMorgan Chase’s $2.2 trillion in debt represented some 91 percent of its $2.4 trillion in assets. (Under accounting conventions used in Europe, the figure would be around 94 percent.)
然而与之相对比，银行的负债却往往超过其总资产的90%。摩根大通2.2万亿的债务在其2.4万亿的总资产中占了91%。（按照欧洲使用的会计惯例，该数字可达94%左右。）
Basel III would permit banks to borrow up to 97 percent of their assets. The proposed regulations in the United States — which Wall Street is fighting — would still allow even the largest bank holding companies to borrow up to 95 percent (though how to measure bank assets is often a matter of debate).
《巴塞尔协议III》将允许银行借入多达其资产97%的债务，美国提出的法规还是会允许最大的银行业控股公司借入多达资产95%的资金（虽然测算银行资产也往往具有争议性），可华尔街仍在表示反对。
If equity (the bank’s own money) is only 5 percent of assets, even a tiny loss of 2 percent of its assets could prompt, in essence, a run on the bank. Creditors may refuse to renew their loans, causing the bank to stop lending or to sell assets in a hurry. If too many banks are distressed at once, a systemic crisis results.
实际上，如果股本（银行自己的钱）在总资产中只占5%，即便它的资产只损失区区2%，都会引起实质上相当于挤兑的现象。债权人可能会拒绝续签贷款协议，从而导致银行停止放贷或慌忙抛售资产。倘若有过多的银行同时陷入困境，就会发生系统性的危机。
Prudent banks would not lend to borrowers like themselves unless the risks were borne by someone else. But insured depositors, and creditors who expect to be paid by authorities if not by the bank, agree to lend to banks at attractive terms, allowing them to enjoy the upside of risks while others — you, the taxpayer — share the downside.
审慎的银行绝不会把钱借给像它们一样的借款人，除非相关风险由别人承担。但是已经投保的存款人，以及一些即便银行不会偿还债务，官方也会向他们还款的债权人，就会同意以诱人的条件借钱给银行，让银行享受风险所带来的收益，而你们这些纳税人，则需要承担后果。
Implicit guarantees of government support perversely encouraged banks to borrow, take risk and become “too big to fail.” Recent scandals — JPMorgan’s $6 billion London trading loss, an HSBC money laundering scandal that resulted in a $1.9 billion settlement, and inappropriate sales of credit-card protection insurance that resulted, on Thursday, in a $2 billion settlement by British banks — suggest that the largest banks are also too big to manage, control and regulate.
政府支持的隐性担保，事与愿违地鼓励了各银行借入资金，承担风险，最后变得“大到不能倒”。摩根大通在伦敦的60亿美元交易损失、最后以19亿美元和解费告终的汇丰银行(HSBC)洗钱丑闻，还有周四导致英国各银行支付20亿美元和解费用的信用卡保障险违规销售操作，这些近期的丑闻表明，大型银行不仅大到不能倒，而且还大到难以管理、难以控制、难以监管。
NOTHING suggests that banks couldn’t do what they do if they financed, for example, 30 percent of their assets with equity (unborrowed funds) — a level considered perfectly normal, or even low, for healthy corporations. Yet this simple idea is considered radical, even heretical, in the hermetic bubble of banking.
没有证据表明，如果银行30%的资产来自股本（非借入资金），就无法开展业务。这个水平对一个健康经营的公司完全正常，甚至偏低，然而在银行业与世隔绝的泡泡里，这种简单的想法却被认为激进，甚至是异端邪说。
Bankers and regulators want us to believe that the banks’ high levels of borrowing are acceptable because banks are good at managing their risks and regulators know how to measure them. The failures of both were manifest in 2008, and yet regulators have ignored the lessons.
银行业者和监管部门希望我们相信，银行业借款水平高是可以接受的，因为银行善于管理其风险，监管部门也知道如何衡量风险。这两者的失败在2008年清晰显现，然而监管部门却仍然忽视了这次教训。
If banks could absorb much more of their losses, regulators would need to worry less about risk measurements, because banks would have better incentives to manage their risks and make appropriate investment decisions. That’s why raising equity requirements substantially is the single best step for making banking safer and healthier.
如果银行可以承担更多的损失，那么监管机构就不必太担心风险测量，因为这样银行就有了更强的动机来管理其风险，并作出恰当的投资决策。这就是为什么大幅提高股本资产要求，才是让银行更加安全和健康的上上策。
The transition to a better system could be managed quickly. Companies commonly rely on their profits to grow and invest, without needing to borrow. Banks should do the same.
向一种更好的体系转变可以迅速地实现。企业通常依靠其利润来发展和投资，而不是借贷。银行也应当这样做。
Banks can also sell more shares to become stronger. If a bank cannot persuade investors to buy its shares at any price because its assets are too opaque, unsteady or overvalued, it fails a basic “stress test,” suggesting it may be too weak without subsidies.
银行还可以通过出售更多的股票来变得更强大。如果一家银行因为资产太不透明、经营不稳定或估值过高，而无法说服投资者以任何价格购买其股票，那就表明它未能通过基本的“压力测试”，说明它实力太弱，必须靠补贴才能存活。
Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has acknowledged that the “too big to fail” problem has not been solved, but the Fed counterproductively allows most large banks to make payouts to their shareholders, repeating some of the Fed’s most obvious mistakes in the run-up to the crisis. Its stress tests fail to consider the collateral damage of banks’ distress. They are a charade.
美联储(Federal Reserve)主席本·S·伯南克(Ben S. Bernanke)承认，“大到不能倒”的问题还没有被解决，但美联储却适得其反地允许大多数大型银行分红给它们的股东，重复了危机来临前美联储犯下的最为明显的一些错误。其压力测试未能考虑到银行陷入困境时所带来的连带损害，不过是敷衍而已。
Dodd-Frank was supposed to spell the end to all bailouts. It gave the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation “resolution authority” to seize and “wind down” banks, a kind of orderly liquidation — no more panics. Don’t count on it. The F.D.I.C. does not have authority in the scores of nations where global banks operate, and even the mere possibility that banks would go into this untested “resolution authority” would be disruptive to the markets.
《多德-弗兰克法案》本应终结所有的救援措施。它为联邦存款保险公司(Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation)提供了“清算授权”来控制住银行并“逐渐关闭”它们，这是一种有序的清算，不再会有恐慌。不过也不能指望它。联邦存款保险公司在国际银行经营的那几十个国家里并没有权限，而仅仅可能将银行置于这种未经检验的“清算授权”状态，就会给市场带来巨大破坏。
The state of financial reform is grim in most other nations. Europe is in a particularly dire situation. Many of its banks have not recovered from the crisis. But if other countries foolishly allow their banks to be reckless, it does not follow that we must do the same.
大部分其他国家的金融改革形势严峻。欧洲的情况尤其糟糕。许多银行还没有从危机中恢复过来。但即使其他国家愚蠢地允许自己的银行不计后果地行事，也不意味着我们必须做同样的事。
Some warn that tight regulation would push activities into the “shadow banking system” of money market funds and other short-term lending vehicles. But past failures to make sure that banks could not hide risks using various tricks in opaque markets is hardly reason to give up on essential new regulations. We must face the challenge of drawing up appropriate rules and enforcing them, or pay dearly for failing to do so. The first rule is to make banks rely much more on equity, and much less on borrowing.
一些人警告，严格监管将把金融活动推入“影子银行”体系，包括货币基金和其他短期信贷工具。但是即使过去未能禁止银行在不透明的市场中使用各种诡计来掩藏风险，现在也不应放弃关键的新监管措施。我们必须面对挑战，制定适当的规则并执行它，如果无法这样做，就要付出沉重代价。首要的规则是，让银行更多地依赖股本，并且大幅减少对借款的依赖。