REYKJAVIK, Iceland — An angular glass building on the waterfront here used to be the headquarters of a banking giant with operations in Europe, North America and the Middle East.
冰岛雷克雅未克——在本地的滨水区，有一栋棱角分明的玻璃建筑，它曾是某家大银行的总部，该行在欧洲、北美和中东均有分支业务。
Now, it houses a shadow of that behemoth — a small bank doing business only in Iceland and lacking both the trading culture and ambitions of its failed predecessor.
现在，这栋建筑里只剩下那家庞大物的一丝残余——这是一家只在冰岛境内经营业务的小银行，它既无失败前任的交易文化，也无其雄心。
The metamorphosis is a result of one of the biggest bank crashes any country has ever had. The risk in Iceland’s financial system has dissipated, but the basic businesses of banking have shrunk as well. Lending to consumers and businesses has slowed to a fraction of what it was before the crisis.
导致这种蜕变的是冰岛发生的一起世界罕见的大规模银行破产。冰岛金融体系的风险已经消散，但银行的基本业务也出现了萎缩。针对消费者和企业的借贷，发放速度较危机之前已大大放缓。
“We moved from a situation where the one that took the biggest risk was the employee of the month, to a situation where the one that took the least risk became the employee of the month,” said Bjarni Benediktsson, the Icelandic finance minister. “I think we need to find a balance in between.”
冰岛财政部长比亚德尼·贝内迪克松(Bjarni Benediktsson)说，“我们的形势已经发生了转变，从月度最佳员工承担最大风险，到月度最佳员工承担最小风险。我想，我们需要在两者之间寻找一种平衡。”
Iceland is a living experiment in what can happen when a country forces its financial firms to go under, rather than bailing them out, as much of the rest of the world did during the global financial crisis.
冰岛的经历是一场活生生的实验，它验证了在全球金融危机之下，当世界许多国家对自己的金融业施以援手之时，一个国家迫使自己的金融企业倒闭，可能会发生什么情况。
In October 2008, all three of Iceland’s major banks collapsed. None failed more spectacularly than Kaupthing, the bank whose glass headquarters were on the waterfront. At one point, it had a balance sheet four times as large as the annual economic output of the entire country. Last month, four former Kaupthing executives were sentenced to multiple-year prison terms.
2008年10月，冰岛三家主要银行都破产了。但是没有哪一家的破产能比考普森银行(Kaupthing)的破产给人们带来更大的震动。考普森就是那家总部位于滨水区玻璃外墙大楼里的银行。一度，这家银行的资产负债表比冰岛全国的年经济总产值还要高出三倍。上个月（去年12月——编注），考普森银行的四名前高管被判多年徒刑。
Emerging from the crisis are three new ventures, including Arion Bank, the successor to Kaupthing, that hold only the local assets of the old firms. They also have a different mind-set from the brash tenacity that prevails elsewhere in the financial industry.
危机过后诞生了三家新公司，其中包括仅继承了考普森银行本地资产的阿里翁银行(Arion Bank)。这几家新银行也有一种全新的心态，和其他地区金融业中盛行的自以为是、顽固不化截然不同。
“The mandate was to build a new bank on the foundations of the old collapsed bank,” said Hoskuldur Olafsson, the chief executive of Arion Bank, sitting in his sparsely decorated office overlooking the water. “It didn’t look good. It had no direction whatsoever. What we needed to do in the beginning was find some sort of a direction for where we would go with this bank.”
“我们的任务是在这些破产银行的基础上，建立起一家新银行。”阿里翁银行首席执行官霍斯屈聚尔·奥拉夫松(Hoskuldur Olafsson)说，他坐在装修简朴的办公室里，俯瞰着水面。“这家银行最初看起来不怎么样。它什么发展规划都没有。我们一开始要做的就是为银行找到某种发展方向，好让我们和银行共同朝着这个方向前进。”
In Iceland, the new banks are missing the big bonuses and risky trading desks that have fed populist anger elsewhere.
在冰岛，新银行不会再有丰厚的奖金和风险重重的交易室，这些交易室在其他地区助长了民粹主义者的怒火。
“We are a new bank with new business ethics and a new way of doing things,” said Steinthor Palsson, the chief executive who was brought on to run Landsbankinn, the largest of Iceland’s new banks. Revenue from trading operations at Landsbankinn is down to 10 percent of what it was in 2006.
斯坦索尔·帕尔森(Steinthor Palsson)说，“我们是一家新银行，有新的规矩和新的行事方式。”帕尔森被任命为首席执行官，负责运营冰岛规模最大的新银行冰岛国民银行(Landsbankinn)。该行的交易收入减少到了它在2006年时的10%。
But a transformation of the financial system can accomplish only such much in a country that faces such a long road to recovery.
不过，对于一个面临着漫长复苏之路的国家而言，金融系统的转型也就只能取得这么多的成就了。
Many companies and households in Iceland are still deeply indebted. Birgir Gudjonsson, a 37-year-old policeman in Reykjavik, said that the banks had been too interested in rebuilding their businesses and their balance sheets, and not helpful enough to homeowners like him who bought their first homes just before the crisis. Because many Icelandic loans are linked to inflation, Mr. Gudjonsson owes more than he initially borrowed.
冰岛的许多公司和家庭依然负债累累。在雷克雅未克，37岁的警察比吉尔·古德永松(Birgir Gudjonsson)说，银行对重建业务和资产负债表过于热心，但是对像他这样在危机前首次购房的房主的帮助力度却不够大。由于冰岛本地的许多贷款随通胀浮动，古德永松的负债额已超出了他当初的贷款额。
“We’ve been hearing, almost weekly, ‘Oh look at this, everything is great,’ ” he said in the two-bedroom house where he lives with his wife and two daughters. “We just have to look in our wallet to see the reality.”
“我们几乎每周都会听到这样的话，‘噢，看看这个，一切都很好。’”他在与妻子及两个女儿居住的两居室里说。“我们只能是看着自己的钱包，才能看清现实。”
Companies and homeowners that want to borrow more are also having difficulty given the conservatism of the banks and a lack of access to foreign investors. In the first nine months of last year, for instance, Landsbankinn’s net new lending to corporations and individuals was 0.8 percent of what in was in all of 2006.
鉴于银行的保守主义，再加上缺少海外资金的流入，想借更多钱的公司和房主也遇到了困难。举例来说，去年前9个月，冰岛国民银行对企业和个人发放的净新增贷款只有2006年全年的0.8%。
“There is no easy way out of a deep crisis,” said Mr. Benediktsson, the Icelandic finance minister, who recently came into office after an election that hinged on economic discontent.
冰岛财政部长贝内迪克松说，“要走出一场深重的危机，没有捷径。”在一场与对经济的不满情绪息息相关的选举过后，贝内迪克松近日刚刚走马上任。
Iceland’s leaders did not see bailouts as an alternative when they took control of the banks in October 2008. The three major banks were 10 times as large as the country’s gross domestic product, in contrast to the United States, where bank assets were about the same size as the annual G.D.P. Even if it wanted to, Iceland did not have the resources to save its banks.
冰岛的领导人在2008年10月接管银行时，没有把救援视为一种选择。冰岛三家主要银行的资产规模比该国国内生产总值还要高九倍，这和美国形成了鲜明的对比，那里的银行资产规模大约和年度国内生产总值相当。即使冰岛想救自己的银行，也没有资金来源。
Instead, the government took the banks and separated off all the loans and financial products that were outside Iceland — the majority of the assets — and stuffed them into a so-called bad bank with no government backing. The government also made it illegal to move money out of the country, halting a run on the local currency, the krona.
冰岛政府不但没有施以救援，反而接管了银行，把它们在冰岛之外的所有贷款和金融产品——它们占银行资产的一大部分——都分拆了出去，转给一家不受政府支持的所谓的坏银行。政府还把资金转移到海外的行为定为非法，制止了本地货币挪威克朗的流失。
Even with these steps, the economy shrank 16 percent over the next year, and the unemployment rate rose to nearly 10 percent, from around 2 percent.
即使采取了这些举措，冰岛的经济规模还是在第二年萎缩了16%，失业率从2%上升至10%。
The banks’ first task was restructuring the loans of companies and households that could no longer pay them. The government passed a law mandating that loans had to be reduced to no more than 110 percent of the underlying property — helping homeowners who had ended up underwater, though it did not eliminate the inflation-linked loans that people like Mr. Gudjonsson have.
这些银行的首要任务是重组无法继续偿还的企业和家庭贷款。政府通过了一项法律，规定贷款额必须减少到不超过房产定价的110%，以此帮助被贷款套牢的房主，不过，政府也没有取消古德永松那样的人所借的和通胀挂钩的贷款。
Landsbankinn went further and began a campaign to reduce the debt of any company or household that was unable to pay off its loans. This pressured the other banks to make similar efforts.
冰岛国民银行则走得更远，他们启动了一项行动来减少任何无法还清贷款的公司或家庭的债务。此举迫使其他银行采取了类似的举措。
The restructuring of the financial sector — and the government steps to protect the currency — have allowed unemployment to fall to 5.6 percent, and economic growth to begin.
金融部门的结构性调整，以及政府保护货币的举措，已经使得失业率降到了5.6%，经济开始恢复增长了。
Many economists, though, say that the banks are too focused on the past, and not doing enough to make new loans and build a business for the future. The banks have also been conservative about continuing to shrink their work force, which has left costs high.
不过，许多经济学家表示，银行太过专注于过去发生的事，却没有全力地发放新贷款，或者为今后的发展开辟业务。对于继续减少员工人数，银行的态度一直相当保守，这导致了成本居高不下。
“They are sort of in a standstill,” said Fridrik Mar Baldursson, a specialist in finance at Reykjavik University. “There is so much inertia in the system.”
雷克雅未克大学(Reykjavik University)金融专家弗里德里克·马尔·巴尔迪森(Fridrik Mar Baldursson)说，“从某种程度上它们陷入了停滞。金融系统内的惰性太强了。”