Asian-Americans are often categorized as a single group, comprising about 5.4 percent of the U.S. population. But despite economic disparities between nationalities, it is the highest paid racial group, and its members are more likely to be seen as advantaged, than disadvantaged.
亚裔美国人经常被归为一个单独的群体，约占美国人口的5.4%。尽管民族间有经济差距，但是亚裔美国人是收入最高的族群，他们更多地被视为处于优势地位，而非处于弱势。
But is it fair to stereotype Asian-Americans as a "model minority," free of the burdens of discrimination? Or do they also face obstacles as other nonwhite groups do?
但是，刻板地认为亚裔美国人是“模范少数族裔”、没有受到歧视，这到底公平吗？他们是否也要面对其他非白人族群所面临的困难？
It Isn't Easy Being a Model Minority
做模范少数族裔不易
By Kim Wong Keltner
金·王·凯尔特纳（Kim Wong Keltner）
Kim Wong Keltner is the author of "Tiger Babies Strike Back: How I Was Raised by a Tiger Mom but Could Not Be Turned to the Dark Side."
金·王·凯尔特纳著有《虎宝宝的反击：我由虎妈养大，但不肯转向黑暗一面》(Tiger Babies Strike Back: How I Was Raised by a Tiger Mom but Could Not Be Turned to the Dark Side)。
The term "model minority" both dismisses an individual's hard work, blood, sweat and tears, and keeps other races down. At first it sounds like a compliment, but it's not.
“模范少数族裔”一词既否定了个人付出的努力、血汗和泪水，又贬低了其他种族。这个词初听像是恭维，实则不然。
If a bully is about to beat me up but thinks twice because Bruce Lee movies make him or her think all Asians know kung fu, then I benefit from that false assumption. While that might make me temporarily glad, in the long run, it's just another step in the gantlet of Asian stereotypes: math nerd, geisha, dragon lady.
如果一个霸道的人想要打我，但由于李小龙(Bruce Lee)的电影让他误以为所有亚洲人都会功夫，所以动手时有所顾忌，那么可以说我受益于这种错误的设想。这或许会让我高兴一时，但从长远来看，却加剧了对亚裔的刻板印象：数学呆子、艺妓和恶龙女。
The expectation of success in itself is a problem. Princeton University has already produced a study that shows in college admissions, Asians need higher SAT scores. Moreover, if you have great grades, but not supersonic, epic, straight A-pluses in all AP classes, you are just considered a loser. By your own family. Asian kids of America, you are more than your grade point average and your accomplishments on paper. Asian parents, some of you are driving your kids to suicide. So lay off!
对成功的期望本身就是一个问题。普林斯顿大学的一项研究已经显示，在大学录取中，亚裔需要更高的SAT分数才行。此外，即使你有好成绩，但只要不是无敌天才，没能在所有大学先修课程中拿A+，那你只会被自己的家人看做失败者。美国的亚裔孩子，你的平均成绩和纸面上的成就，并不能完全代表你。亚裔父母们，你们当中的一些人都把孩子逼得要自杀了。所以住手吧！
At the same time, discrimination against Asian-Americans is alive and well. The idea that we are advantaged comes from a place of fear. Fear that we are "taking over." It's a new Yellow Peril, repackaged. No matter what designer clothes, Ph.D.s, or other signifiers of success adorn us now, we are still seen as "other."
与此同时, 对亚裔美国人的歧视仍然很常见。认为亚裔有优势的想法源于恐惧，害怕我们会“接手”。这是一种经过重新包装的新“黄祸”(Yellow Peril)。无论如今我们身上装点的是设计时装、博士学位，还是其他什么显示成功的标识，我们仍被视为“他者”。
We who have suffered all share the sentiment Morticia Addams uttered with sang froid, “We gladly feast on those who would subdue us.” But hey, here's an obstacle many Asian-Americans don't realize until too late in the game: It's lonely at the top. If we are going to be truly successful we need to consider not just diplomas and salaries, but our ability to express compassion and affection. Don’t forget to have a life. And friends.
有过这种遭遇的我们，都能理解莫提莎·亚当斯(Morticia Addams)冷冷说出的话，“我们高兴地享用着那些想压制我们的人。”但还有个问题，等许多亚裔意识到的时候，往往为时已晚，那就是“高处不胜寒”。如果我们要获得真正的成功，需要考虑的不仅仅是文凭和薪水，而是我们表达同情和好感的能力。别忘了要有生活，还要有朋友。
Let’s redefine success to include our emotional reality. The advantage of experiencing real human connection blows all that other stuff out of the water.
让我们重新定义成功吧，把我们的情感现实也包含进去。能体验人与人之间真实的纽带，比其他任何事情都重要。
A Bamboo Ceiling Exists
“竹天花板”的确存在
By Buck Gee
朱柏章(Buck Gee)
Buck Gee is an executive adviser to Ascend, a pan-Asian professional organization. He retired in 2008 as an executive with a Fortune 100 tech company.
朱柏章是泛亚裔职业机构Ascend的执行顾问。2008年，他从一家财富100强科技公司的高管任上退休。
In 2006, I was working at my desk when I realized I was one of the few Asian-American vice presidents in a Fortune 100 company. Until then, it had never occurred to me to notice how few Asian-American executives I had met in the Bay Area although Asian-Americans had become over 30 percent of the employees in many companies. Was there an Asian “bamboo ceiling”?
2006年的一天，我在办公桌前工作时，突然意识到我是财富100强公司中，为数不多的几个亚裔副总裁之一。在那之前，我从没注意过我在湾区遇到的亚裔高管屈指可数，尽管在很多公司中，亚裔员工超过了30%。是否存在一个亚裔竹天花板呢？
Reaching out to other Asian-American executives, I heard the same story in other companies and business sectors across the country. In fact, a recent study found that Asian-American men and women were 150 percent less likely than their white counterparts to be an executive in large Silicon Valley companies.
联系其他的亚裔高管，我听到在全国各地的其他公司和行业也是同样的情况。事实上，最近的一项研究发现，白人成为硅谷大型企业高管的可能性，是亚裔美国人的150%。
By all standards, I am a success story. Son of a poor immigrant, I had worked hard, graduated from prestigious universities, and never saw one hint of racial discrimination. Yet confronted with indisputable data that Asian-Americans were significantly underrepresented in almost all companies and that there was no relevant facts to suggest otherwise, I had to conclude that a bamboo ceiling exists.
从各种标准来看，我都是一个成功者。作为贫穷移民之子，我努力学习，毕业于名校，从没遇到一丁点种族歧视。但无可争辩的数据显示，在几乎所有企业里，亚裔美国人的比例严重失调，且没有相关事实表明情况并非如此。于是我不得不推断，的确存在竹天花板。
But why?
但原因是什么呢？
The bamboo ceiling is real, but its roots, and our failure, stem from our success. Because there are elements of truth in the narrative, the idea of the smart, hard-working model minority has created an implicit bias that Asian-Americans are great thinkers and doers but lack the assertiveness, vision and interpersonal skills to be successful organizational leaders. The stereotype of the quiet, talented professional has led to the widespread assumption of an ill-suited business leader.
竹天花板是真实存在的，但它的根源和我们的失败，正源于我们的成功。因为相关说法中的确有一些真实的成分，亚裔是聪明、勤奋的模范少数族裔的观点，产生了一种隐含的偏见，即认为亚裔美国人擅长思考、擅长做事，但缺乏成为成功的组织领导者所需的进取心、远见和人际交往技巧。亚裔是安静、有才能的职业人士的这种刻板印象，导致人们普遍以为，他们不适合当企业领导人。
As important, too many Asian-Americans believe that advancement into higher management is evaluated and rewarded principally for achievement. Although achievement is necessary, it is not sufficient. As part of corporate leadership teams evaluating promotions, I would look beyond achievement for evidence to suggest executive potential, including personal initiative, conflict management or willingness to express an unpopular view.
同样重要的是，太多亚裔美国人认为，进入更高一级管理团队的评判标准是自己的成绩，升职也是对成绩的奖励。尽管成绩是必要的，但仅有成绩还不够。作为负责评估晋升的企业领导团队成员，我希望看到除了成绩外，还有证据表明，被评估对象有成为高管的潜力，包括个人能动性、冲突管理或者愿意表达不受欢迎的观点。
Fortunately, there is progress. Using a data-based approach and recognizing the existence of a ceiling for their Asian-American professionals, several Bay Area companies have taken measures to address root causes. With affirmative outreach to identify additional high-potential Asian-American professionals and culturally-specific leadership training, they are taking steps to eliminate internal obstacles for Asian-Americans.
幸运的是，已经有了进步。湾区的几家公司利用一种以数据为基础的方式，认识到他们的亚裔员工面临一个天花板。它们已采取措施，打算解决根本原因。通过积极主动地发现更多高潜力的亚裔职员，并提供针对文化的培训，它们正在采取举措，消除亚裔美国人面临的内在障碍。
Let’s hope more companies can learn.
希望更多公司向它们学习。