Centuries ago, salt was more valuable than gold, but today the condiment has fallen out of favor. Now we know that its main component, sodium, can raise blood pressure, increasing the risk of heart disease and stroke.
在几个世纪前，盐比黄金更贵重，但时至今日，这种调味品已经身价倍跌。现在我们都知道，食盐的主要成份钠可提高血压，增加罹患心脏病和脑卒中的风险。
A new report, prepared by experts from three leading universities, projects that a small, steady reduction of sodium in the American diet could save up to half a million lives over the next decade. And a more rapid reduction could save even more lives — as many as 850,000.
由三家知名大学的专家在近期完成的一份研究报道预计，如果稳步限制美国人饮食中的钠含量，在接下来的10年里将可以挽救高达50万人的生命。如若能将限钠的步调走得更为迅捷些，还可挽救更多生命——最高可达85万人。
The Finns have already proved this projection. As described last month in The New England Journal of Medicine, since the early 1970s, when Finland launched a national campaign to reduce salt intake, daily consumption has dropped by 3,000 milligrams a day in men and women, with a corresponding decline in death rates from stroke and coronary heart disease of 75 to 80 percent.
芬兰人已经证实了这个预言。上个月的《新英格兰医学杂志》(The New England Journal of Medicine)刊发了研究内容：自20世纪70年代初，芬兰开始实施一项全国性的限盐运动，将每人每日摄入食盐的量减少了3000毫克（即3克），结果芬兰人因中风和冠心病而导致的死亡率减少了75-80%。
In the last decade or so, many food producers have introduced low-sodium or reduced-sodium versions of popular products, including soups, vegetables, fish, sauces, cereals, nuts, dips and even chips. But Americans still consume far too much sodium — a third more, on average, than the amount recommended for an otherwise healthy person and more than twice the amount recommended for people with high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease or kidney disease.
在过去这10来年里，很多食品企业都推出了流行食品的低钠或减钠版本，包括罐头汤、蔬菜、鱼、调味酱、麦片、坚果、调味汁甚至薯片。但美国人摄入的钠仍然太多了—平均来说比向健康人群推荐的摄入量超出了三分之一，比患高血压、心血管病和患病人群的推荐量超出了一倍多。
Sodium is an essential dietary element, but a mere 200 milligrams a day is all one needs for good health. The average American, however, takes in 3,300 milligrams daily, primarily from salt added to foods prepared commercially and in restaurants.
钠在饮食中不可或缺，但每天仅摄取200毫克的钠已经足以满足健康身体所需。而美国人平均每天会摄入3300毫克的钠，这其中最主要的来源是市售加工食品和饭店烹制的食品中所添加的盐。
The federal Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend a maximum of 2,300 milligrams of sodium daily — the amount in one teaspoon of salt — for an otherwise healthy person. The guidelines, and the American Heart Association, recommend an even lower limit, 1,500 milligrams daily, for about 60 percent of American adults: those already afflicted with ailments adversely affected by sodium, African-Americans (who are more susceptible to high blood pressure), and everyone age 51 and older.
联邦政府发布的《美国人饮食指南》(Dietary Guidelines for Americans)，对于健康人群推荐每日钠摄入量的上限为2300毫克，相当于一茶匙盐。该指南和美国心脏协会(American Heart Association)还有一个更低的钠摄入上限，为每日1500毫克，针对的是约六成美国成年人，其中包括患有可受钠影响的疾病的病人，黑人（他们更易患高血压）及达到和超过51岁的长者。
Too much sodium in the diet causes the body to retain water, placing an added burden on the heart and blood vessels. The new report, published in the journal Hypertension, projects that 280,000 to 500,000 lives would be saved by a 40 percent reduction in sodium intake, to about 2,200 milligrams a day, over 10 years. An instantaneous reduction, to 1,500 milligrams, could avert between 700,000 and 1.2 million deaths in 10 years, the experts calculated.
在饮食中摄入过多的钠会导致身份中潴留水份，这会给心脏和血管带来额外的负担。而专家在一篇发表在《高血压杂志》(Hypertension)的新研究计算得出以下推测：如果美国人能将钠摄入量减少40%，达到每天2200毫克，则可在未来10年里挽救27万-50万人的生命。如果采取更激烈的限盐措施，将钠摄入量降至1500毫克，则可在未来10年里挽救70万-120万人的生命。
These projections, based on computer simulations and models, were developed by research groups from the University of California, San Francisco; Harvard Medical School; and Simon Fraser University in British Columbia.
这些推测建立在电脑模拟和模型的基础上，研究由来自三个大学的研究团队共同完成，包括加州大学旧金山分校(University of California, San Francisco)、哈佛大学医学院( Harvard Medical School)和加拿大不列颠哥伦比亚省的西蒙弗雷泽大学(Simon Fraser University)。
The researchers used three different methods to assess the benefits of sodium reduction and were struck by how similar the projected benefits turned out to be. One method was based on a randomized, controlled clinical trial of sodium reduction among men and women followed for 10 to 15 years.
研究者分别使用了三种不同的方法来评估限钠带来的益处，结果发现推测出的结论惊人的相似。其中一种方法的研究基础是随机对照临床试验，参试的男性和女性减少了摄入的钠量，并被持续观察10到15年。
A second method assessed cardiovascular risk indirectly based on the blood pressure effects of lowering sodium combined with drug therapy. And the third method relied on population studies of sodium reduction and resultant deaths from cardiovascular disease, stroke and all causes.
第二种方法则是评估心血管病风险，间接研究在降低钠摄入量同时予以药物治疗的情况下，会对血压带来多大的影响。而第三种方法的基础则是人群研究，研究者想要知道的是限钠与因心血管病、中风和全死因导致的死亡之间的关系。
“No matter how we look at it, the story is the same. There will be huge benefits in reducing sodium,” said Pamela Coxson, a mathematician at the U.C.S.F. Center for Vulnerable Populations.
“不管我们的角度如何，所阐释的说法都是一样的：减钠将会带来巨大的裨益，”加州大学旧金山分校脆弱人群中心(U.C.S.F. Center for Vulnerable Population)的数学家帕梅拉·考克森(Pamela Coxson)说。
Dr. Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo, the director of the center and senior author of the new report, said in an e-mail that “if you lower sodium in your diet, your body starts to expect food to taste less salty, and that becomes the normal flavor of food. Lower-sodium diets down-regulate our salt taste receptors in about six weeks.”
该中心主任、上述新研究的资深作者克里斯滕·比宾斯-多明戈(Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo)博士在一封电子邮件中说：“假如你降低饮食中的钠含量，身体随之开始期待尝起来不是太咸的食物，而这种味道就将成为食物正常的味道。只要用六周时间，低钠饮食就能将对咸味的味觉感受器下调。”
Salt is just one common dietary source of sodium. Others include monosodium glutamate (MSG), baking soda, baking powder, disodium phosphate and other compounds with “sodium” in their names.
食盐仅是钠的其中一种常见饮食来源。其他还包括了味精、苏打粉、泡打粉、碳酸二钠和其他名称中包含“钠”字的化合物。
Still, salt — sodium chloride — is the prime offender. About 80 percent of the salt in the American diet, however, is introduced in food factories and restaurant kitchens. Ten types of foods contribute more than 40 percent of the sodium consumed by Americans, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
不过，食盐——学名氯化钠——仍是最主要的罪魁祸首。而在美国人吃进去的食盐中，约八成来自食品厂和餐馆厨房。据美国疾病控制与预防中心(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)介绍，美国人摄入的钠中，有超过40%是由十种类型的食物贡献的。
The leading source is not a food that tastes especially salty, like pretzels or anchovies. It is breads and rolls, primarily because so much more of them are consumed than the other nine main sources of sodium: cold cuts and cured meats, pizza, poultry (often infused with salt water), soups, sandwiches, cheese, pasta dishes, meat dishes and snacks.
排名最领先的食物尝起来倒不像椒盐脆饼干或凤尾鱼那样特别咸。它就是面包和面包卷，这主要是因为人们食用它的量要远远高于其他九种高钠食材：冷切肉和咸肉、披萨、禽肉（往往浸着盐水）、汤、三明治、奶酪、意大利面、荤菜盘和小吃。
The good news is that the marketplace is now replete with better choices, including many foods with less sodium than others and low-sodium or reduced-sodium versions of traditionally salty foods. It pays to check the nutrition information on food labels (and, in the case of fresh poultry and pork, the ingredients lists) and choose products with less sodium.
好消息是，现在市面上有大量更好的选择，很多食品所含的钠都低于其他食品，同时传统高盐食物也相继推出了低钠或减钠的版本。只要好好查看食品标签上注明的营养信息（至于新鲜的禽肉和猪肉，则需要看配料列表），并且选择含钠较低的食品，你就会得到回报。
Analyses by the Department of Agriculture and data from manufacturers show very wide ranges in sodium content of common products. Three ounces of deli or packaged turkey breast may contain anywhere from 450 to 1,050 milligrams of sodium. A cup of canned chicken noodle soup can have as little as 100 milligrams or as much as 940 milligrams of sodium. And a cheeseburger at a fast-food restaurant can have 710 milligrams or 1,690 milligrams of sodium.
美国农业部(Department of Agriculture)的分析和食品厂商的数据显示出，常见食品的钠含量相差十分悬殊。三盎司（合85克）的熟食火鸡胸或成品火鸡胸，其钠含量低至450毫克，高可达1050毫克。一杯罐头鸡汤面条的钠含量低至100毫克，高至940毫克。而来自同一家快餐店的奶酪汉堡，所含的钠可在710毫克到1690毫克间。
Be aware of the current trend to infuse fresh poultry and meats with salted water. There are no nutritional labels on these foods in supermarkets, but the packaging should note whether salt water has been added. A four-ounce package of fresh boneless, skinless chicken breast may contain 40 milligrams of sodium or as much as 330 milligrams.
你还要留意将新鲜禽肉和猪肉浸在盐水中的潮流。在超市里，这些食品并没有贴营养标签，但包装袋中应注明是否添加了盐水。一份四盎司（合113克）重的无骨去皮鸡胸肉中所含的钠，可以在40毫克到330毫克之间。
Even among salted snack foods, some choices are better than others. One of my favorites is lightly salted roasted peanuts. I like snacks with some salt but not too much, so I purchase both salted and salt-free mixed nuts and combine the two.
就连含盐的快餐食品，一些选择也好过另一些。低盐烤花生是我挺喜欢的小吃，我喜欢吃带点咸味但又不要太咸的零食，所以我会同时买含盐和不含盐的花生，然后将它们摇匀了吃。
In a national public-private initiative coordinated by the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, a number of major companies have already achieved gradual reductions in salt in their products, with no untoward effect on sales, Dr. Bibbins-Domingo said. “If all companies take this approach, no company is at a disadvantage,” she said.
在由纽约市健康和心理卫生局(New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene)协调的一项全美公立-私营倡议中，有一批大型食品厂商已经取得成效，逐步减少了产品中的食盐含量，同时也未对销量造成负面影响。比宾斯-多明戈博士说：“如果所有公司都采纳这一举措，就不会有一家公司因为限盐而受冲击。”
In home-cooked meals, there are myriad herbs, spices and peppers that can enhance the flavor of foods and reduce the need for salt. Fresh herbs add more flavor than dried ones, although they are more expensive and less convenient. (You might try growing rosemary and thyme on a sunny windowsill.) Or for a real flavor boost, add a tangy vegetable, like mustard greens, to your favorite recipe.
在家烹饪饭菜时，可以选用各式香草、调味品和胡椒来加重菜肴的风味，同时减少对盐的需求。新鲜的香草比起干的香草可以带来更丰富的口感，不过它可能要贵一些，买起来也不太方便。（你可以在家里朝阳的窗台上种几盆迷迭香或百里香。）如果希望让风味得到真正的提升，可以在喜欢的食谱中加入味道辛辣的蔬菜，比如芥菜。
For 60 recipe ideas and a wealth of information about sodium and health, see the new book “Eat Less Salt,” by the American Heart Association.
你可以翻看美国心脏协会出的新书《少吃盐》(Eat Less Salt)，书里提供了60道菜谱，同时有大量关于钠和健康的资讯。
Jane’s Mussels (No Salt Added)
简的淡菜食谱（无盐）
There are many delicious ways to season foods without adding salt. This recipe, a family favorite, relies on garlic, onion and a sprinkling of hot pepper flakes.
有很多种不额外添加盐，也能给食物调味的好办法。下面这个方子我们全家都爱吃，它靠的是大蒜、洋葱和少量干辣椒片。
2 pounds fresh live mussels
2磅（合900克）鲜活的淡菜
2 tablespoons olive oil
2匙橄榄油
½ cup chopped onion
半杯洋葱碎
2 large cloves garlic, minced
2大瓣大蒜，切碎
¼⅛ to ¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, to taste
⅛ 到¼ 匙辣椒片调味
¼ cup dry white wine, beer, broth or water
¼ 杯干白葡萄酒，啤酒，高汤或清水
¼ pound mustard greens, including tender stems, cut bite-sized
¼ 磅（合113克）芥菜，别摘掉嫩嫩的茎，切成适量大小
1. Rinse the mussels well under cold water and set aside to drain.
1. 将淡菜用冷水冲洗干净，然后滤干。
2. In a large pot with a tight-fitting lid, heat the olive oil briefly, add the onion, garlic and pepper flakes. Sauté for about two minutes until the vegetables soften.
2. 在大锅里，先稍热下橄榄油，随后下洋葱、大蒜和干辣椒片。煎两分钟直至蔬菜软烂。
Add the liquid, mussels and mustard greens, and toss well with the sautéed vegetables. Bring to a boil, cover the pot and steam over medium-high heat for 5 minutes or until the mussels have opened.
倒入调味汁、淡菜和芥菜，与蔬菜翻炒均匀。煮沸后盖上锅盖，用中高火烧5分钟 ，或直至淡菜口完全打开。
Yield: Serves 2 to 4
份量：2至4人份