SOUTHAMPTON, Pa. — The Knabe baby grand did a cartwheel and landed on its back, legs poking into the air. A Lester upright thudded onto its side with a final groan of strings, a death-rattling chord. After 10 pianos were dumped, a small yellow loader with a claw in front scuttled in like a vicious beetle, crushing keyboards, soundboards and cases into a pile.
这是发生在宾夕法尼亚州南安普顿市的一幕——一架柯纳比小型钢琴侧着翻了个跟头，琴盖着地，四脚朝天。一架李斯特立式钢琴砰地一声摔到它身边，琴弦发出最后的呻吟，宛如濒死哀歌的和弦。10架钢琴就这样被丢弃，之后一辆前带铲斗的小型黄色装载机像只凶恶的大甲虫一样迅速赶到，把所有键盘、音板和琴身碾成一大堆废铜烂铁。
The site, a trash-transfer station in this town 20 miles north of Philadelphia, is just one place where pianos go to die. This kind of scene has become increasingly common.
南安普顿市位于费城以北20英里处，这个垃圾站只是废弃钢琴的众多死地之一。这样的场面如今已经愈来愈普遍。
The value of used pianos, especially uprights, has plummeted in recent years. So instead of selling them to a neighbor, donating them to a church or just passing them along to a relative, owners are far more likely to discard them, technicians, movers and dealers say. Piano movers are making regular runs to the dump, becoming adept at dismantling instruments, selling parts to artists, even burning them for firewood.
二手钢琴的价值近年来一落千丈，特别是立式钢琴。与其卖给邻居、捐给教堂或者送给亲戚，主人们觉得还不如干脆扔掉它们——钢琴技师、搬家工人和乐器商人都是这么说的。专业的钢琴搬运工开始定期跑垃圾场，他们学会了娴熟地拆卸钢琴部件，把某些零件卖给艺术家们，木制的部分甚至会被用来当柴火烧。
“We bust them up with a sledgehammer,” said Jeffrey Harrington, the owner of Harrington Moving & Storage in Maplewood, N.J.
“我们都是用大锤把它们给砸开，”杰弗里·哈林顿说，他是新泽西梅普伍德市哈林顿搬运仓储公司的老板。
Pianos consist of hundreds of pounds of metal, wood and intricate machinery able to channel Bach, Mozart and Beethoven, along with honky-tonk, “Happy Birthday” and holiday tunes. It is strange to think of them as disposable as tissues. Yet economic and cultural forces have made many used pianos, with the exception of Steinways and a few other high-end brands, prone to being jettisoned.
一架钢琴重达数百磅，由金属、木材和各种精密机械部件组成。人们用它来演奏巴赫、莫扎特和贝多芬的乐曲；也在上面弹出小酒馆乡村乐、《祝你生日快乐》和各种各样的节日歌。把它们当做纸巾这样用过即抛的物品似乎有点奇怪，然而许多钢琴被丢弃的命运背后是经济与文化力量的驱动，只有施坦威(Steinways)等少数高端品牌得以幸免。 
With thousands of moving parts, pianos are expensive to repair, requiring long hours of labor by skilled technicians whose numbers are diminishing. Excellent digital pianos and portable keyboards can cost as little as several hundred dollars. Low-end imported pianos have improved remarkably in quality and can be had for under $3,000.
钢琴有上千个活动部件，维修起来价格不菲，即便是熟练的技师也需要花好几个小时，而熟练技师的人数正在减少。品质卓越的电子钢琴（digital piano，不同于keyboard，即国内统称的“电子琴”或键盘，它是一种模仿传统钢琴的电子乐器，外观与传统钢琴颇为相似——译注）和便携电子琴大约只需几百美元就能买到。低端进口钢琴的品质大大提升 ，价格还便宜，多在3千美元以下。
“Instead of spending hundreds or thousands to repair an old piano, you can buy a new one made in China that’s just as good, or you can buy a digital one that doesn’t need tuning and has all kinds of bells and whistles,” said Larry Fine, the editor and publisher of Acoustic & Digital Piano Buyer, the industry bible.
“与其破费几百甚至几千块钱去修旧钢琴，还不如买一台中国制造的新钢琴，质量一样好。要不就买个电子钢琴，用不着调音，还有各种花样和玩法，”业内权威杂志《普通钢琴与电子钢琴选购》(Acoustic & Digital Piano Buyer)的主编和出版人拉里·费恩(Larry Fine)说。
Used pianos abound on Web sites like eBay, driving prices down and making it difficult to sell Grandma’s old upright. With moving costs of several hundred dollars, even giving a piano away can be expensive. Abandonment often becomes the only option, especially for heirs dealing with a relative’s property.
在eBay这样的网站上到处都是二手钢琴的出售信息，价格被压得愈来愈低，祖母留下的老式立式钢琴根本卖不出去。因为搬运钢琴要花好几百美元，所以把琴送人也很破费。所以一般状况下，丢弃成了唯一的选择，特别是那些从亲戚手里继承下来的钢琴更容易遭到这样的命运。
Many pianos are also dying of old age. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, before radio and recordings, pianos were the main source of music, even entertainment, in the home. They were a middle-class must-have.
如今许多钢琴正因年老而渐渐死去。在19世纪末到20世纪初，在收音机与唱片出现之前，钢琴是家里音乐的唯一来源，也是主要的娱乐方式，堪称中产阶级的必备之物。
So from 1900 to 1930, the golden age of piano making, American factories churned out millions of them. Nearly 365,000 were sold at the peak, in 1910, according to the National Piano Manufacturers Association. (In 2011, 41,000 were sold, along with 120,000 digital pianos and 1.1 million keyboards, according to Music Trades magazine.)
于是在钢琴生产的黄金时期（1900-1930），美国工厂辛苦地造出了数以百万计的钢琴。根据全国钢琴制造协会统计，1910年钢琴销售达到了顶峰，全年共售出36.5万架钢琴。（根据《音乐贸易》［Music Trades］杂志统计，2011年全国共售出4.1万架普通钢琴，12万台电子钢琴和110万台电子琴。）
The average life span rarely exceeds 80 years, piano technicians say. That’s a lot of pianos now reaching the end of the line.
钢琴技师说，钢琴的平均寿命很少能超过80年。也就是说，如今许多钢琴已值寿终正寝之龄。
Piano dealers also blame other changes in society for a lack of demand in the used-piano market: cuts in music education in schools, competition for practice time from other pursuits, a drop in spending on home furnishings with the fall of the housing market.
钢琴经销商们觉得二手钢琴市场的萎缩也有社会方面的原因：学校缩减音乐教育；其他各种兴趣爱好挤占了练琴时间；另外房地产市场的衰落也使人们在家居方面支出的金额出现下滑。
Whatever the reason, people in the piano world agree that disposals are mounting.
不管出于什么原因，钢琴业内人士都认为，钢琴丢弃现象越来越常见。
O’Mara Meehan Piano Movers said it takes 5 to 10 pianos a month to the debris transfer site here. The company was founded in 1874 by the great-grandfather of the brothers Bryan and Charles T. O’Mara Jr.
奥玛拉·米汉钢琴搬运公司(O’Mara Meehan Piano Movers)每个月要将5到10架钢琴运往垃圾中转站。这家公司成立于1874年，是由布莱恩与小查尔斯·T·奥玛拉兄弟(Bryan and Charles T. O’Mara Jr.)的曾祖父创立的。
Bryan O’Mara and an employee, James A. Fox, drove their truck into a hangarlike structure one day last week. Inside the truck were six uprights and four grands. Several came from the Philadelphia school system and one from a retirement home. “This was Mrs. Dombrowski’s from New Hope,” Mr. O’Mara said, patting the Knabe.
上周的某一天，布莱恩·奥玛拉和公司雇员詹姆斯·A·福克斯(James A. Fox)开着卡车来到一栋像飞机库一样的建筑前。车里装的是6架立式钢琴和4架三角钢琴。有几架来自费城的学校，还有一架来自一家养老院。“这位是来自‘新希望之家’的‘多姆布罗斯基夫人’，”奥玛拉轻抚着一架柯纳比钢琴说。 
Mr. O’Mara and Mr. Fox pushed them off the back of the truck one by one. The top of an upright popped off when it landed. Mr. Fox tossed amputated piano legs and a pedal mechanism. Sprayers from above sent out a swirl of dust-settling mist, adding to the surreal atmosphere.
奥玛拉和福克斯把它们一架架地从卡车后面卸下来。一架立式钢琴落地的时候琴顶掉了下来。福克斯从车里扔出几个被锯下来的琴腿，还有一套踏板装置。车子上方的喷雾器喷出一股防尘水雾，为眼前这一幕平添了几分超现实主义色彩。 
Mr. O’Mara had charged the former owners about $150 per piano. The trash site charged him $233.24 for dumping them all. A recycling company would pick up the debris and separate the wood from the metal.
奥玛拉向钢琴的前主人们收取每架钢琴150美元的报酬。垃圾站向他索价233.24美元作为丢弃所有钢琴的费用。一家垃圾回收处理公司会来挑拣这些残骸，并把金属和木头分离开来。
Beethoven Pianos, a restorer, renter, mover and dealer in New York, has a 34,000-square-foot warehouse at the base of the Third Avenue Bridge in the Bronx, with scores of pianos awaiting disposal, said the owner, Carl Demler.
纽约一家名叫“贝多芬钢琴”的钢琴存储、租赁、搬运和交易公司拥有一座占地3.4万平方英尺的仓库，位于布朗克斯区的第三大道大桥地下。公司老板卡尔·德姆勒说，那里已经存放了许多等待处置的废旧钢琴。
“In wintertime we burn them,” he said, pointing to a round metal stove. “This one has eaten many pianos.”
“到冬天我们就把它们烧掉，”他指着一个圆形的金属火炉说：“这炉子已经吞噬了不少钢琴。” 
He watched as a worker, James Williams, dismantled a grand. “Ashes to ashes,” Mr. Demler said.
望着手下工人詹姆斯·威廉姆斯拆开一架三角钢琴，德姆勒不禁感慨：“尘归尘……”
“Dust to dust,” Mr. Williams added, unscrewing pins that held the strings.
“……土归土，”威廉姆斯替他补上后半句，旋开连着琴弦的调音钉。
The junking of the modern descendant of the “gravicembalo col piano e forte,” the Italian precursor, can evoke strong reactions. A video posted on YouTube by one mover showing pianos being dumped drew violent remarks. Commenters said they felt sickened and called the scene barbaric, painful, outrageous, even criminal. “Stop the horror!” one wrote.
这些“可强可弱的羽管键琴”（原文为“gravicembalo col piano e forte”，这是第一架钢琴的制造者、佛罗伦萨的Bartolomeo Cristofori对他所发明和制造的钢琴的称呼，是追溯钢琴历史时常常用到的术语。——译注）的现代后裔们惨遭抛弃总能激起人们强烈的情感。有个钢琴搬运工在YouTube上贴出一个丢弃钢琴的视频，结果得到大量激烈的评论。很多人回复说觉得恶心，觉得这一幕野蛮、粗暴、令人痛苦，简直就是犯罪。“快制止这样的丑恶！”有人写道。
When the video was described to Madeleine Crouch, the administrator of the National Piano Manufacturers Association, she responded with a sharp intake of breath. “That makes me cry,” she said. “Pianos are lovable. You wouldn’t want your pet horse to be thrown out into the glue factory.”
全国钢琴制造协会主管玛德琳·克劳奇(Madeleine Crouch)听说这段录像后长叹一声：“这样的事总能让我流泪。钢琴是多么可爱的东西。你总不会愿意自己的宠物小马被送进制造动物胶的工厂里去。”
Such reactions emphasize the abyss between the emotional value of used pianos and their worth in the marketplace.
这样的反应显示出二手钢琴在情感方面的价值与其市场价值之间存在深深的鸿沟。
“It is the most emotionally charged piece of furniture that there is,” said Martha Taylor, a rare restorer of uprights, whose Immortal Piano Company is based in Portland, Ore. “When I have to say: ‘You’ve buried your grandmother. You have to bury her piano,’ it’s a really hard thing.”
“钢琴是最能承载情感的家具，”玛莎·泰勒说。她是一位如今已经非常罕见的立式钢琴维修者，在俄勒冈州的波特兰开了一家公司，名叫“不朽的钢琴”(Immortal Piano Company)。“每次我不得不说‘您故去祖母的钢琴再也修不好了’时，总觉得非常难以启齿。” 
Many movers say they strive to find homes for abandoned pianos, making the rounds of nursing homes, schools and other institutions.
很多钢琴搬运公司都说他们很想给这些被主人抛弃的钢琴找到新家，他们经常到养老院、学校和其他机构去尝试。
“You hate to see them go,” said Mr. O’Mara, whose company tries to give away discarded pianos. Any rescued piano, he noted, is also a potential future move for O’Mara Meehan. But there is just so much room in his warehouse for adoptees. He has to cull them like a herd. Churches and schools often do not have room or the means to maintain them.
“你真不想看着它们被毁掉，”奥玛拉说，他的公司也在试着把被抛弃的钢琴送出去，他说，任何重新“获救”的钢琴未来都是奥玛拉·米汉公司潜在的搬运对象。但他的仓库里实在有太多等待被认领的钢琴，他也只好选择性地处理掉一些送不出去的钢琴。教堂和学校通常没有足够的空间和经费去保有一架钢琴。
Brian Goodwin, who owns Piano Movers of Nashua, N.H., and who had 30 pianos in his warehouse ready for the dump recently, said he created the Web site Piano Adoption partly as a clearing house to find homes for unwanted pianos. He posted the video of the dumped pianos that drew such shocked responses.
布莱恩·古德温(Brian Goodwin)是新罕布什尔州纳舒厄一家钢琴搬运公司的老板，近期他的仓库里存有30架要扔掉的琴。他建立了一个名叫“钢琴领养Ў±的网站，部分功能是为那些没人要的钢琴提供一个交易平台。那个激起强烈反响的丢弃钢琴录像就是他贴上去的。
When owners ask where a cherished piano is going, he said, he tries to avoid the subject or tells them it will be put up for adoption.
他说，钢琴的主人们有时会问起曾经珍爱的钢琴会去往什么地方，他总是尽量转移话题，或者告诉他们，有人会认领它。 
“The last thing they want to hear is that it’s going to a landfill,” he said.
“他们最不想听到的就是它会被送到垃圾填埋场，”他说。
But piano movers can also take a clinical view of piano disposal, since they understand the economic realities. While noting that piano disposals can be painful, Mr. Goodwin said: “To be honest with you, the guys enjoy it. They try so hard all day not to scratch anything. And all of a sudden they get to throw it off the back of a truck.”
但钢琴搬运公司们对丢弃钢琴也持有一种客观的态度，他们明白现实的经济情况。古德温说尽管处置钢琴是让人痛苦的事情，但是，“实话告诉你吧，小伙子们其实还挺享受这个的。他们整天小心翼翼，不让钢琴有一丁点磕了碰了。突然之间就可以把这玩意儿一下子扔到卡车后头去，真的很爽。”