Samantha Power made her name as a writer, with a fierce, unsparing account of why the United States did so little to prevent genocide during the 20th century, a failure she attributed to a “ruthlessly effective” American political system.
萨曼莎·鲍尔(Samantha Power)以作家身份成名，她以激烈的态度不留情面地论述了，在20世纪，美国在防止种族灭绝方面付出的努力为何如此之少，并把这场失败归咎于“有效得无情”的美国政治制度。
So when Ms. Power, 42, traded academia for a human rights post in the Obama administration in 2009, the question was how she would translate her moral outrage into policy.
因此，当现年42岁的鲍尔在2009年放弃学术生涯并接受奥巴马政府的人权事务职位时，人们的问题是，她会怎样把道义上的愤慨转化为政策。
The answer lies in her signature project, the Atrocities Prevention Board, a high-level White House task force that Ms. Power urged President Obama to create in 2012 and then served as chairwoman of for its first year. As she faces confirmation hearings next month to be ambassador to the United Nations, the board offers a road map into her thinking — demonstrating both her zeal and the limitations of her approach.
答案就在她的标志性项目“防止暴行委员会”(Atrocities Prevention Board)上。这是一个高级别的白宫工作组，在鲍尔的劝说下于2012年由奥巴马总统创立，并由她本人在第一年里担任主席。鲍尔担任美国驻联合国大使的提名确认听证会将于下月召开，而该委员会为了解她的想法提供了一份路线图——不仅展示了她的工作热情，也显示了她的做法的一些局限性。
Meeting monthly in the White House Situation Room or the Old Executive Office Building, Ms. Power’s board has wrestled with how to stop a wave of anti-Muslim violence in Myanmar, politically motivated clashes in Kenya and the terrorism campaign of Joseph Kony, the guerrilla leader in Central Africa accused of enslaving children.
鲍尔的委员会每月在白宫局势研究室或者艾森豪威尔行政办公楼召开会议，努力思考如何平息缅甸出现的一波反穆斯林暴力活动、在肯尼亚发生的带有政治动机的冲突，以及约瑟夫·科尼(Joseph Kony)的恐怖活动。科尼是非洲中部的游击队领导人，被控有奴役儿童的行为。
The board has prodded Mr. Obama to raise the issue of the treatment of Muslims with the president of Myanmar, Thein Sein. It pushed for war-crimes legislation that enabled the United States to offer a reward of up to $5 million for tips leading to the capture of Mr. Kony. And it took part in a decision to send civilian experts to Kenya before elections last March to help quell violence.
该委员会促使奥巴马向缅甸总统登盛（Thein Sein，又译吴登盛）提出了穆斯林受到不公正对待的问题。它推动战争罪行立法进程，让美国能为抓捕科尼的线索提供高达500万美元的酬金。它还参与了一项决议：在今年3月的肯尼亚大选之前，派遣文职专家到那里，帮助平息暴力活动。
What it did not do is change Mr. Obama’s response to the biggest atrocity of the day, the Syrian civil war. He has steadfastly resisted deeper involvement, even as the death toll has surpassed 90,000. That has made the board an easy target for conservatives, as well as some genocide scholars, who condemn it as toothless.
委员会没有做到的事情则是转变奥巴马对叙利亚内战的应对方式，而这是当今最严重的暴行。尽管死亡人数超过了9万，但奥巴马坚决拒绝更深入地牵涉其中。由于这件事，该委员成为了容易遭受保守派攻击的靶子，一些研究种族灭绝的学者也指责它不起作用。
“This is the first time you’ve had a point person to prevent atrocities in the U.S. government,” said Mark Schneider, a senior vice president at the International Crisis Group, a research organization. “But sometimes you fail; sometimes you’re not able to come up with alternative policies.”
“这是美国政府中首次有了一个用来防止暴行的关键角色。”研究机构国际危机集团(International Crisis Group)的高级副总裁马克·施耐德(Mark Schneider)说， “但有时候会失败，有时候则会拿不出别的替代政策。”
Current and former administration officials said it was naïve to think that an interagency board could shift American policy on Syria, given the enormity and strategic sensitivity of the crisis and that it was already raging when the board was formed.
奥巴马政府的一些现任和前任官员表示，鉴于叙利亚危机的艰巨性和战略敏感性，以及该委员会成立之时情况已然极其严重，认为一个跨部门的委员会可能会改变美国对叙利亚的政策，是个很天真的想法。
“It is unrealistic for a new entity that has no real authority to galvanize the government on Syria,” said Lanny A. Breuer, a former assistant attorney general who represented the Justice Department on the board until earlier this year. “But what it can do is to raise awareness.”
前助理司法部长兰尼·A·布鲁尔 (Lanny A. Breuer)曾在该委员会中担任司法部的代表，直到今年早些时候。他说，“一个没有实权的新委员会，要在叙利亚问题上促使政府采取行动是不现实的。不过它可以提高人们对这个问题的认识。”
Ms. Power, Mr. Breuer said, brought a “boldness and level of commitment that was impressive.” She handpicked the board’s members from 11 agencies including the Treasury Department and the C.I.A., and she led meetings that were unusually well attended, another member said, thanks to her intensity.
布鲁尔说，鲍尔带来了“勇气，以及令人难忘的敬业水准”。她精心挑选的委员会成员来自于11个机构，其中包括财政部和中央情报局，而她主持的会议有异常高的出席率，另一名成员说，这是由于她做事认真而坚决。
With ties to Mr. Obama dating to his 2008 campaign, Ms. Power also got him to put his personal imprimatur on the effort. The president, announcing the creation of the board at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in April 2012, declared that preventing mass atrocities and genocide was a “core national security interest.”
鲍尔和奥巴马的关系始于他2008年竞选总统期间，在鲍尔的努力下，奥巴马亲自正式批准了这个项目。2012年4月，奥巴马在美国大屠杀纪念馆宣布该委员会成立，并声称防止大规模暴行和种族灭绝是“国家安全利益的一个核心”。
“This is not an afterthought,” he added. “This is not a sideline in our foreign policy.”
“这不是一个可有可无的东西，”他补充说，“这不是我们外交政策中的一个附带事项。”
Friends of Ms. Power’s say that as a senior director on the National Security Council, she argued for a more robust response to Syria — an argument that finally gained traction, months after she left, with Mr. Obama’s recent decision to begin supplying small arms and ammunition to the rebels.
鲍尔的朋友说，作为国家安全委员会的高级主任，她敦促美国对叙利亚作出更加强有力的回应—— 在她离任几个月后，这个观点终于形成了气候：奥巴马最近决定开始为叙利亚反政府军提供小型武器和弹药。
For Ms. Power, the experience illustrates the frustrations that human rights advocates have long encountered in government. In her 2002 book, “A Problem From Hell,” she noted that during the three months of genocide in Rwanda, the Clinton administration never held a top-level meeting devoted to it.
对于鲍尔来说，这次经验显示了人权倡导者在政府里长期遭受的挫折。在她2002年的著作《来自地狱的问题》(A Problem From Hell)中，她曾指出，在卢旺达种族灭绝屠杀持续的3个月时间里，克林顿政府从来没有专门为它召开过最高级别的会议。
“You expect to lose these fights,” said Gary J. Bass, a professor of politics and international affairs at Princeton University, who is a friend of Ms. Power’s. “If public opinion doesn’t stop you, a reluctant president will. If the bureaucracy doesn’t stop you, the Pentagon will.”
“在这些战斗中失败是常事，”鲍尔的朋友加里·J·贝斯(Gary J. Bass)说，他是普林斯顿大学的政治和国际事务教授。 “如果公众意见没能阻止你，那么不情愿的总统也会阻止你。如果官僚制度没能阻止你，那么五角大楼也会阻止你。”
Ms. Power has had one notable success, which predated the board: allying with Hillary Rodham Clinton, then the secretary of state, and Susan E. Rice, who is leaving her job as ambassador to the United Nations to be national security adviser, to persuade Mr. Obama to back a NATO-led military intervention in Libya. By all accounts, it halted a potential slaughter of rebels by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
鲍尔也曾获得过一次引人注目的成功，那还是在该委员会成立之前：她跟时任国务卿的希拉里·罗德姆·克林顿(Hillary Rodham Clinton)，以及即将从驻联合国大使调任国家安全顾问的苏珊·E·赖斯(Susan E. Rice)一起，说服奥巴马支持北约领导的利比亚军事干预行动。各方面信息显示，此举阻止了卡扎菲上校 (Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi)可能对反政府分子展开的屠杀。
Ms. Power did not respond to a request for comment, and she has been careful not to air her views on Syria. Her friends say that she does not reflexively argue for military force. Much of the board’s work has focused on other ways of pressuring abusive governments, including financial sanctions, export controls and travel bans on foreign officials.
鲍尔没有回应置评请求，她一直很谨慎，避免公开发表自己对叙利亚的看法。她的朋友们说，她不会一遇到事情就支持武力行动。该委员会的大部分工作都集中在通过其他方式向滥用权力的政府施压上，比如金融制裁、出口管制和针对外国官员的旅行禁令等。
To do this, it has pulled in agencies not known for attention to human rights. The Treasury, for example, has placed on blacklists people suspected of human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic of Congo and other countries; the Justice Department has begun training prosecutors to work on human rights cases.
为了做到这一点，委员会让一些跟人权事务看似关系不大的机构参与了进来。举例来说，财政部已经把一些人列入了黑名单，这些人涉嫌在刚果民主共和国和其他国家侵犯人权；美国司法部则已经开始培训人权案件方面的检察官。
Perhaps most important, the board scans the horizon for the next Syria. The administration is completing the first National Intelligence Estimate on the risks of mass atrocities, a report that will reflect the consensus of the nation’s 16 intelligence agencies.
也许最重要的是，该委员会正在审视周围的世界，希望发现谁会成为下一个叙利亚。政府正在制定首份国家情报评估报告(National Intelligence Estimates)，用来评估发生大规模暴行的风险。该报告将反映美国16家情报机构的共识。
Focusing the government’s attention early is where “the board is able to be a game changer,” said Stephen Pomper, who succeeded Ms. Power as senior director for multilateral affairs and human rights at the National Security Council and took her seat as the chairman of the board.
斯蒂芬·庞珀(Stephen Pomper)说，引起政府对可能发生的暴行的早期重视，是“该委员会可能会改变局面的关键所在”。庞珀接替鲍尔，不仅成为国家安全委员会多边事务和人权高级主任，而且担任了该委员会的主席。