BEIJING — The training session started with a harsh public shaming. A performance coach took to the stage and asked eight employees at a Chinese bank to explain to a room of their peers why they had fallen short.
北京——培训课程以恶劣的公开羞辱为开端。一位绩效培训师走上舞台，要求一家中国银行的八名员工对着一屋子的同事解释自己为什么落在最后。
“I didn’t cooperate well,” a woman said.
“没有配合，”一名女子说。
“I wasn’t courageous enough,” another confessed.
“勇气不够，”另一位讲道。
Then the session took a bizarre turn. The coach brandished a wooden stick and shouted, “Get your behinds ready!” He proceeded to slap the employees on their rears, going down the line four times. A woman recoiled in pain, and several workers gasped.
之后这项课程出现奇怪的转折。培训师挥舞着一根木棍大喊，“准备好屁股！”他上前抽打这些员工的臀部，来回打了四遍。有一名女子忍不住痛往前迈了几步，好几名员工喘着气。
By Tuesday, a video of the episode had provoked widespread anger in China. The coach, Jiang Yang, apologized, and two executives at the bank that hosted the session, Zhangze Rural and Commercial Bank in Changzhi, a northern city, were suspended.
至周二，一段有关该事件的视频在中国引发普遍的愤怒。名为姜洋的培训师公开道歉。长治漳泽农商银行两名负责组织该培训的高管被停职。
The bank had hired Mr. Jiang, who works for a Shanghai consulting company that sometimes charges more than $18,000 a day, to help improve the productivity of its workers, according to Chinese news reports. The theme of the training session, which was held on Saturday for more than 200 employees, was “performance breakthroughs.”
据中国媒体报道，这家银行聘请姜洋是为提高员工的绩效。后者供职于上海一家咨询公司，其一天的收费有时会在1.8万美元（约合11.8万元人民币）以上。这场培训在周六举行，主题为“业绩突破”，共有200多名员工参加。
In a video apology, Mr. Jiang said the bank’s leaders should not be blamed. “I punished the lowest-performing trainees according to the rules of the competition and hurt them,” he said. “I hereby offer my deepest apologies.”
姜洋在一个道歉视频中表示，不该由银行领导承担这个过错。“根据课程里面的竞赛规则，对最后一名的组员进行了诫勉惩罚，对一些学员造成伤害，”他说。“在此我向学员们表示深深的歉意。”
Mr. Jiang was also reported to have used other methods to shame the employees, including cutting their hair. Bank officials said employees who participated in the sessions might receive compensation.
据报道，姜洋还曾使用其他方法羞辱这些员工，包括剃头。银行工作人员表示，参加这项培训的员工可能会得到补偿。
Corporal punishment is still common in China, especially in rural regions, but many people found Mr. Jiang’s methods extreme. A one-minute clip of the session filmed by an audience member quickly garnered tens of thousands of views online and set off a furious reaction on social media.
体罚在中国仍然比较常见，尤其是在农村地区，不过有很多人觉得姜洋的方式比较极端。由一名现场观众拍摄的一分多钟的视频很快在网上获得数万次的观看，并在社交媒体上引发激烈的反应。
“You must be sick.” a user wrote on Weibo, a web service similar to Twitter. “Are employees your slaves?”
“有病啊，”一名用户在类似Twitter的网络服务产品微博上写道。“员工是你的奴隶吗？”
“What era are we in now?” another user wrote. “We still spank people?”
“什么年代了，”另一名用户写道。“还打屁股？”