EDMONTON, Alberta —Han Peng was 9 years old when China lost to the United States on penalty kicks in an epic championship match at the 1999 Women’s World Cup.
艾伯塔省埃德蒙顿——在1999年女子足球世界杯赛那场漫长而艰难的冠军争夺战中，中国队最后因点球失利而输给美国队。当时韩鹏只有9岁。
When she learned of the news the next day, Han, now 25, said: “I felt so disappointed. I thought to myself, if I were given the opportunity in the future, I will beat them.”
当她后来得知消息时，“感觉特别失落。我在心里想，如果将来有机会参赛，我一定要打败她们，”如今25岁的韩鹏这样说起当时的情景。
Now a starting midfielder, Han will get her long-awaited chance at redemption Friday, when a revived Chinese team faces the Americans in the World Cup quarterfinals in Ottawa.
现在，作为中国国家女子足球队的一名首发中场队员，韩鹏得到了期待已久的兑现诺言的机会。重新振作起来的中国女足将于本周五在渥太华举行的世界杯四分之一决赛中对阵美国队。
The Chinese women went into a long slide after the 1999 World Cup, failing to qualify for the 2011 tournament or the 2012 London Olympics. The team went through coaches like rolls of tape. And China’s one-child policy has left many parents and schools reluctant to immerse themselves in sports, officials and former players said.
自1999年的世界杯赛事之后，中国女足经历了很长的低潮期。2011年的世界杯和2012年的伦敦奥林匹克运动会，女足都没能赢得入围资格。这支队伍一度像走马灯一样换教练。体育官员和以前的队员表示，中国的独生子女政策也使得很多家长和学校不愿让孩子从事体育运动。
The resurgence of the women’s national team at this year’s World Cup in Canada reflects, in part, a new emphasis placed on men’s and women’s soccer in China at the highest levels of government.
中国女足在加拿大举行的本届世界杯上的再次崛起，某种程度上反映了中国政府最高层重新开始重视中国男足和女足运动的发展。
Coach Hao Wei has restored the bloom to the Steel Roses, as the team is known, with a young, energetic roster that is fast, relentless and thoroughly organized in defense.
女足主教练郝伟恢复了昔日“铿锵玫瑰”的荣光。他带领的这支新队伍年轻、充满活力，球员奔跑速度快，有韧性，在防守上滴水不漏。
And the United States will be without two starting midfielders, Megan Rapinoe and Lauren Holiday, who are suspended with two yellow cards each.
而美国队将有两名主力中场队员缺席四分之一决赛：梅根·拉皮诺(Megan Rapinoe)和劳伦·霍利迪(Lauren Holiday)均因领到两张黄牌而被停赛。
Enow Ngachu, the coach of Cameroon, which lost by 1-0 to China in the round of 16, said he believed that China had a chance to defeat the Americans. China and the United States have not met in the World Cup since 1999, but they nonetheless play regularly and are familiar with each other. In their most recent meeting, they tied, 1-1, in December at a tournament in Brazil.
在16强赛中0比1负于中国队的喀麦隆女足主教练埃诺·恩加楚(Enow Ngachu)表示，他认为中国队有机会打败美国队。自1999年以来，中美两国的女足队还没有在世界杯赛场上相遇过，但她们经常对阵，也比较熟悉对方。两队最近一次相遇是在去年12月在巴西举行的一项赛事上，双方1比1战平。
“I think they have one of the best defenses in this tournament,” Ngachu said of China, adding: “When they lose the ball, nearly all the Chinese players regroup themselves as fast as possible. You hardly find less than six players defending. If they keep on like that, they can create surprises.”
“我觉得，在这届世界杯的赛场上，她们是防守最好的队伍之一，”恩加楚这样评价中国队。他还表示，“她们失去球权以后，几乎所有队员都会尽快重新布阵。场上很难找到少于六人防守的时候。如果她们能继续保持这种状态，就可能创造惊喜。”
The United States has won the Women’s World Cup twice and never failed to reach at least the semifinals. Such expectations will put added pressure on the Americans, while the Chinese can play freely, having reached their goal of the quarterfinals, said Wang Shanshan, a forward who often plays on defense.
美国女足曾经两次赢得世界杯冠军，而且每届世界杯都能至少进入半决赛。经常参与防守的中国女足前锋王珊珊表示，基于历史战绩的期望会给美国队增加额外的压力，而中国队已经实现了打入八强的目标，接下来她们可以轻松上阵。
In the 12th minute Saturday, Wang scored on a volley during a superb corner kick sequence to provide China’s decisive goal against Cameroon.
在上周六和喀麦隆比赛进行到第12分钟时，在中国队一系列精彩的角球配合后，王珊珊凌空抽射破门，为战胜喀麦隆队赢得了决定性的一分。
“It’s going to be a tossup for us, because I think the U.S. team will face bigger pressure than we do,” Wang said after the match, speaking through an interpreter. “We have already obtained our initial objective. We just need to go as far as we can. No more pressure.”
王珊珊在通过翻译接受赛后采访时表示，“与美国队的比赛，我认为是五五开。压力在美国队那边。进入前八，我们已经完成了任务，再往下走就没有任何压力了。”
China lacks the technical and tactical sophistication — and the scoring punch — that it possessed in 1999. The star forward on that team, Sun Wen, was jointly named with Michelle Akers of the United States as the greatest women’s soccer players of the 20th century.
相比于1999年时的那支队伍，新一代女足在技术和战术上不够老练，得分能力也不够强。当年的明星前锋队员孙雯和美国的米歇尔·阿科尔斯(Michelle Akers)并称为20世纪最伟大的女子足球运动员。
Still, China is a “very difficult team to put away,” said Tony DiCicco, who coached the United States to the 1999 title and declined an offer to coach China in 2004.
不过，带领美国女足摘得1999年世界杯冠军的主教练托尼·迪奇科(Tony DiCicco)表示，现在的中国女足仍然“很难攻破”。他在2004年谢绝了担任中国女足主教练的邀约。
“They’ll be organized,” DiCicco said. “Their problem is the ability to score goals. They don’t have special players like they did.”
“她们组织能力会不错，”迪奇科说。“问题在于她们的得分能力不强，也缺少过去那种特色队员。”
China did not have its head coach, either, for the round of 16.
在争夺八强的比赛中，中国队的主教练也缺席了比赛。
Hao, wearing a suit and tie, was ejected from the team’s final group match after interfering with New Zealand’s Ria Percival as she attempted a throw-in during second-half injury time. That odd bit of gamesmanship, which helped preserve a 2-2 tie and advancement in the tournament, cost Hao a suspension for China’s second-round match.
最后一场小组赛进行到下半场伤停补时阶段，因为干扰新西兰球员里亚·珀西瓦尔(Ria Percival)发边线球，西装革履的郝伟被主裁判请出场外。这个有些古怪的扰乱战术帮助中国队保住了2比2的比分，顺利晋级16强，但郝伟付出了在淘汰赛阶段停赛一场的代价。
Tony Readings, the New Zealand coach, refused to shake hands with Hao after the kerfuffle and told reporters, “I would never go out of my way to do that to an opposing player.” He added, “We should always be backstage, not onstage.”
新西兰队主教练托尼·雷丁斯(Tony Readings)在赛后拒绝与郝伟握手，并告诉记者，“我绝不会故意对对方球员那么做。教练应该一直待在幕后，而不是在场上。”
Hao watched Saturday’s match against Cameroon from the stands at chilly, rainy Commonwealth Stadium. But his assistant, Chang Weiwei, filled in more than capably as China trapped Cameroon in its spider-web defense. It has conceded three goals in four matches, while scoring four.
在周六对战喀麦隆的比赛中，郝伟在下着冷雨的英联邦体育馆的看台上观赛。助理教练常卫魏代替他圆满完成了指挥任务，中国队以蜘蛛网一般严密的防守困住了喀麦隆队。在已经结束的四场比赛中，中国队共打进四球，失三球。
“We are in the top eight now,” Chang said. “We have a huge burden lifted off our shoulder. We believe in ourselves. We will become even more aggressive in our next match.”
“现在已经进八强了，我们放下不少包袱。我们相信自己的能力，下场比赛我们会打得更有侵略性，”常卫魏表示。
A victory over the United States would allow China to reassert its primacy in women’s soccer in Asia. Japan is the reigning World Cup champion. Australia, which plays in the Asian confederation, is ranked ahead of China. So is North Korea, though it was barred from this World Cup because of a doping scandal.
如果在本届世界杯的赛场上能战胜美国队，中国女足将重拾在亚洲足坛的地位。目前，日本队是女足世界杯的卫冕冠军。加入了亚足联的澳大利亚队的排名比中国靠前。朝鲜队的排名也高于中国队，但她们因为兴奋剂丑闻被禁止参加本届世界杯比赛。
Only 6,000 or 7,000 girls above the age of 12 are registered to play soccer in China, according to the country’s soccer federation and the Asian soccer confederation.
据中国足协和亚洲足联统计，中国登记在册的12岁以上从事足球运动的女孩只有六七千名。
Although China’s one-child policy has been relaxed, many parents prefer to put their children in piano lessons or English classes than into soccer, the former Chinese star Sun and others said.
昔日的足球明星孙雯等人表示，尽管中国的独生子女政策已经有所放松，很多父母还是宁愿送孩子上钢琴班或英语班，而不愿送他们进足球队。
“It’s still very hard for parents to let their girls play,” Sun said in a recent telephone interview from Shanghai, where she is now a soccer official. “You can only play football for about 10 years. Then you have to get on with your life.”
孙雯目前在上海任足协官员。她近期在当地接受电话采访时讲到，“家长们还是很难选择让女孩去踢足球。足球运动员职业生涯只有大概十年，之后你还得继续自己的生活。”