HONG KONG — It’s been nearly a year since Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce giant, broke off talks with stock market regulators in Hong Kong, deciding instead to pursue its gargantuan initial public offering in the United States.
香港——近一年之前，中国电子商务巨头阿里巴巴中断了与香港证券市场监管机构之间的会谈，决定在美国开展规模巨大的首次公开募股(IPO)。
Now, with Alibaba’s profit soaring and its listing in New York expected to take place in a matter of weeks, Hong Kong is finally, formally starting to talk about the issue over which it lost out on what may go down as one of the largest I.P.O.s in history.
如今，随着阿里巴巴利润猛增，而且该公司将于几周之内在纽约上市，香港终于开始就错失阿里巴巴IPO的问题，正式展开讨论了。那可能是史上最大规模的IPO。
On Friday, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, the stock market operator known as HKEx, published a 108-page document seeking public views about weighted voting rights. Such rights include multiclass share structures — common in the United States among technology companies like Facebook or Google — that give some shareholders a disproportionate say when it comes to voting matters.
周五，香港证券市场的运营机构香港交易及结算所有限公司（Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited，简称HKEx）公布了一份长达108页的文件，寻求公众对加权投票权的意见。此类权利包括多重股权结构，即在投票事宜上向一些股东给予很大的发言权。在 Facebook或Google等美国科技公司，多重股权结构非常普遍。
Alibaba had originally sought permission to list in Hong Kong with its existing partnership committee, a group of 27 founders, executives and other individuals that has the power to nominate a majority of the company’s directors. The Hong Kong exchange declined to allow this, relying on the “one share, one vote” principle that underlies its listing rules, which have no place for weighted voting rights.
阿里巴巴最初请求，允许该公司在保留现有合伙人团队的前提下在香港上市。包括创始人、高管及其他人在内的27名合伙人，有权任命公司的多数董事。香港交易所坚守上市规则中“一股一票”的原则，拒绝了这一计划，一股一票原则不认可加权投票权。
With the publishing on Friday of a request for public comment on such share structures, stock exchange officials were eager to emphasize that it was not just about Alibaba.
港交所官员于周五发布一份公告，请求就此类股权结构征求公众意见。他们急切地强调，这不仅仅与阿里巴巴有关。
“The decision to put out this paper is not related to an individual company,” David Graham, the chief regulatory officer and head of listing at the Hong Kong exchange, said during a news conference. He added that internal discussions on the issue of dual-class shareholdings and the like predated Alibaba’s proposed I.P.O.
“发布这份文件的决定与具体的某家公司无关，”港交所监管事务总监兼上市科主管戴林瀚(David Graham)在新闻发布会上说。他接着说，对双重股权结构的内部讨论，在阿里巴巴提出上市之前就开始了。
Acknowledging the divided opinions in Hong Kong toward such share structures, officials were also moving forward conservatively, publishing what is in effect a consultation about a consultation. Depending on the feedback it receives from its so-called concept paper, which is open for comment until Nov. 30, the exchange may then decide to begin a formal “public consultation” on changes to local stock market regulations. The process of garnering feedback could take months or even a year.
港交所官员们承认，香港对这类股权结构存在分歧，因此他们随进的步伐颇为保守。他们发布的文件，实际上是在对一个征询意见的决定来征询意见。港交所将根据这份所谓的概念文件取得的反馈，决定是否对香港股市监管规定的调整，正式地“公开征求意见”。在11月30日之前，公众都可以对此份概念文件发表评论。整理收集到的反馈，可能需要花费数月甚至一年。
Michael Cheng, the research director for China and Hong Kong at the Asian Corporate Governance Association, whose members include big funds and other institutional investors, cited a litany of reasons why weighted share structures might work in the United States but were not a good fit for Hong Kong.
亚洲公司治理协会(Asian Corporate Governance Association)中国内地及香港研究总监迈克尔·程(Michael Cheng)给出了一连串的理由，解释了为什么“同股不同权”或许在美国适用，但并不适合香港。