QAPQAL XIBE AUTONOMOUS COUNTY, China — Loyal to the core and prized for their horsemanship, several thousand Manchu soldiers heeded the emperor’s call and, with families and livestock in tow, embarked in 1764 on a trek that took them from northeastern China to the most distant fringes of the Qing dynasty empire, the Central Asian lands now known as Xinjiang.
中国察布查尔锡伯自治县——1764年，几千名以绝顶忠诚和马术为特长的满族士兵，听从皇帝的召唤，带着家人和牲畜，经过长途跋涉，从中国的东北来到大清帝国最遥远的边陲，也就是现在被称为新疆的中亚地区。
It was an arduous, 18-month journey, but there was one consolation: After completing their mission of pacifying the western frontier, the troops would be allowed to take their families home.
那是一个长达18个月的艰辛旅程，但是，让他们感到安慰的是：完成了他们平定西部边境的任务后，这支队伍被允许带他们的家人返回老家。
“They were terribly homesick here and dreamed of one day going back east,” said Tong Hao, 56, a descendant of the settlers, from the Xibe branch of the Manchus, who arrived here emaciated and exhausted. “But sadly, it was not to be.”
“他们在这里非常想家，梦想着有朝一日可以重返东部，”56岁的童浩（音）说，他是那些定居者的后裔，属于满族的锡伯族分支，部队抵达这里时早已非常虚弱和疲惫不堪。“但不幸的是，他们未能如愿。”
But two and a half centuries later, the roughly 30,000 people in this rural county who consider themselves Xibe have proved to be an ethnographic curiosity and a linguistic bonanza. As the last handful of Manchu speakers in northeast China have died, the Xibe have become the sole inheritors of what was once the official tongue of one of the world’s most powerful empires, a domain that stretched from India to Russia and formed the geographic foundation for modern China.
两个半世纪过去了，事实证明，住在这个农业县、认为自己是锡伯族人的大约3万人，不仅具有民族研究的特殊意义，而且是一种语言的宝库。随着中国东北地区最后几名会说满语的人死去，锡伯族已成满语唯一的继承者，而满语曾一度是世界上最强大帝国之一的官方语言。大清帝国的领土一直延伸到与印度和俄罗斯接壤的地方，也构成了现代中国领土的地理基础。
In the decades after the revolution in 1911 that drove the Qing from power after nearly 300 years, Mandarin Chinese vanquished the Manchu language, even in its former stronghold in the forested northeast. But the isolation of the Xibe in this parched, far-flung region near the Kazakh border helped keep the language alive, even if its existence was largely forgotten until the 1940s.
1911年的辛亥革命推翻了统治中国近300年的满清王朝，之后的几十年里，普通话取代了满语，甚至在东北森林地区的满族昔日大本营。但是，在靠近哈萨克斯坦边境的这个干旱、遥远的地方，锡伯族与外界隔绝的状态却帮助维持了满语的活力，尽管在20世纪40年代之前，锡伯族的存在差不多已被人们忘记了。
For scholars of Manchu, especially those eager to translate the mounds of Qing dynasty documents that fill archives across China, the discovery of so many living Manchu speakers has been a godsend.
对于研究满文的学者、尤其是那些热衷于把中国各地档案馆里保存的成堆的清代文献翻译出来的人来说，找到这么多活生生的说满语者，真是一个上天赋予的机会。
“Imagine if you studied the classics and went to Rome, spoke Latin and found that people there understood you,” said Mark C. Elliott, a Manchu expert at Harvard University who said he remembered his first encounter, in 2009, with an older Xibe man on the streets of Qapqal County. “I asked the guy in Manchu where the old city wall was, and he didn’t blink. It was a wonderful encounter, one that I’ll never forget.”
“想象一下吧，如果你从事古罗马文化研究，去了罗马，讲了拉丁语，发现那里的人能听懂你的话，”哈佛大学从事满清研究的专家欧立德(Mark C. Elliott)说，他说他记得自己2009年第一次在察布查尔县大街上遇到一位锡伯族长者的经历。“我用满文问他老城墙在哪里时，他眼都没眨一下。那是一次美好的经历，我一辈子都不会忘记。”
Despite the local government’s best efforts, which include language instruction in primary schools and the financing of a biweekly newspaper, what is known here as Xibe is facing the common fate of many of the world’s languages: declining numbers of speakers and the prospect of extinction.
然而，尽管当地政府尽了最大努力，包括在小学教授当地语言，还资助办了一份当地语言的双周报，这个此地称为锡伯语的语言面临着世界上许多语言的共同命运：会说该语言的人数不断下降，语言面临着消失的前景。
The publication Ethnologue identifies almost 300 living languages in China, half of them on the edge of the abyss as Mandarin, the nation’s official language, continues to subsume minority tongues. Among those under pressure, 20 have fewer than 1,000 speakers, according to the website The World of Chinese.
出版物Ethnologue认为中国有近300种活语言，随着少数民族人士越来越多地使用中国官方语言普通话，这些语言中有一半濒临消失的深渊。据网站《汉语世界》(The World of Chinese)统计，这些濒危语种中，有20种语言的使用者已不到1000名。
Although many young people here still speak Xibe at home, few of them can read its graphically bold script, made up of 121 letters and written vertically, from left to right. One recent day in the offices of The Qapqal News, a four-page gazette composed mostly of articles translated from the state-run news media, He Wenjun, 72, a teacher and translator, said he worried that his children and grandchildren could not read or write Xibe.
虽然这里的许多年轻人在家里仍说锡伯语，但他们中很少有人认识锡伯文粗放的书写体，这种书写体由121个字母组成，书写方式是从上至下、从左到右。前不久的一天，在《察布查尔报》（一份主要翻译官方媒体报道的四页报纸）报社，72岁的教师兼翻译家何文君（音）说，他担心自己的儿子辈和孙子辈们不会读写锡伯文。
“Language is not only a tool for communication, but it ties us to who we are and makes us feel close to one another,” said Mr. He, who has spent decades translating imperial Qing documents into Chinese. “I wonder how much longer our mother tongue can survive.”
“语言不仅是交流的工具，也是联系我们身份的纽带，语言让我们感到彼此间的亲近，”何文君说，他曾在把满清王朝文件翻译成中文上花了几十年的工夫。“我不知道我们的母语还能存在多久。”
Even as intermarriage and migration to other parts of the country dilute their identity, the Xibe remain proud of their history and especially their role helping to secure the lands that greatly expanded China’s borders. It was a Manchu emperor who tapped the Xibe to settle the Ili Valley here after Qing soldiers massacred or exiled the nomads who had long menaced the empire’s western borderlands.
尽管通婚以及向中国其他地区的移民，淡化了锡伯族的身份认同，但这个民族对自己的历史仍保持着自豪感，尤其是他们在帮助扩大中国边境地区版图上所起的作用。清兵把长期以来在大清帝国边境地区制造麻烦的游牧民族赶尽杀绝之后，是满清皇帝委派了锡伯族人到伊犁河谷来定居的。
In the decades that followed, a succession of rebellions, many of them led by the region’s ethnic Uighurs, kept the Xibe garrisons busy and sometimes thinned their ranks. One battle in 1867 nearly halved the Xibe population, to 13,000.
在那之后的几十年里，仍不断有叛乱发生，其中许多次是当地的维吾尔族人领导的，这些叛乱让锡伯族驻军忙个不停，有时还让其人数大减。1867年的一仗几乎让锡伯族人口减少了一半，降到1.3万。