Do you often, if guiltily, skip cooling down after exercise? A small but soothing body of new research suggests that you aren’t missing out on much.
你是否经常在锻炼之后带着内疚的情绪漏掉放松环节？一些虽不多但让人安慰的新研究称：其实你也没错失什么。
Most of us were taught in elementary school gym classes that the body requires a formal period of cooling down after a workout or competition. Instructors told us that by slowing to a jog or otherwise lessening the intensity of the workout, followed by stretching or otherwise transitioning out of physical activity, we would prevent muscle soreness, improve limberness and speed physiological recovery. All of this would allow us to perform better physically the next day than if we hadn’t cooled down.
我们大多数人在小学体育课上就被告知，锻炼或比赛后，我们的身体需要一段严肃认真的放松时间。体育老师教我们先减缓速度进行慢跑，或用其他方法降低运动强度；然后拉伸，或做些过渡动作。如此我们就能避免肌肉酸痛，增强柔韧性，加快生理恢复。这一切都让我们可以在第二天的锻炼中表现更出色——比起不做放松来讲。
But under scientific scrutiny, none of those beliefs stand up well.
然而，在科学的审视下，以上没有一条能站得住脚。
In a representative study published last year in The Journal of Human Kinetics, a group of 36 active adults undertook a strenuous, one-time program of forward lunges while holding barbells, an exercise almost guaranteed to make untrained people extremely sore the next day. Some of the volunteers warmed up beforehand by pedaling a stationary bicycle at a very gentle pace for 20 minutes. Others didn’t warm up but cooled down after the exercise with the same 20 minutes of easy cycling. The rest just lunged, neither warming up nor cooling down.
去年，《人类运动学杂志》(The Journal of Human Kinetics)发表了一项代表性实验：36名体能较佳的成年人进行了一次高强度的手握杠铃箭步蹲训练。此动作几乎可以肯定地让没训练过的人在第二天肌肉极其酸痛。其中一些志愿者以慢骑健身自行车20分钟的方法热身；还有一些则不热身，但之后会进行20分钟慢骑自行车的放松运动。其他志愿者则只做箭步蹲，不热身也不放松。
The next day, all of the volunteers submitted to a pain threshold test, in which their muscles were prodded until they reported discomfort. The volunteers who’d warmed up before exercising had the highest pain threshold, meaning their muscles were relatively pain-free.
第二天，所有志愿者都参与了痛阈测试。研究人员刺激他们的肌肉，直到他们表示不舒服为止。训练前热身过的志愿者痛阈最高，意味着他们的肌肉相对来说不大疼痛。
Those who’d cooled down, on the other hand, had a much lower pain threshold; their muscles hurt. The cool-down group’s pain threshold was, in fact, the same as among the control group. Cooling down had bought the exercisers nothing in terms of pain relief.
另一方面，训练后做了放松练习的志愿者痛阈低得多：他们的肌肉很疼。事实上，他们的痛阈与对照组（不热身也不放松）的一样。在减轻身体酸痛方面，放松并不会给健身人士带来什么好处。
Similarly, in two other studies published last year, one in The Journal of Human Kinetics and the other in The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research, professional soccer players in Spain underwent a series of physical tests to benchmark their vertical leap, sprinting speed, agility and leg muscle flexibility, and then completed a normal soccer practice. Afterward, some of the players simply stopped exercising and sat quietly on a bench for 20 minutes, while others formally cooled down with 12 minutes of jogging and 8 minutes of stretching.
类似的论文在去年的《人类运动学杂志》(The Journal of Human Kinetics)和《力量与训练研究杂志》(The Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research)上还各有一篇。在研究中，西班牙的职业足球运动员进行了一系列体能测试，测定他们的纵跳能力、冲刺速度、灵活度和腿部肌肉柔韧性；接着他们完成了一次常规足球训练。之后，一些运动员停止运动，在长椅上静坐20分钟；另外一些则进行12分钟慢跑加8分钟拉伸的正式放松。
The next day, the players repeated the physical tests and also told the scientists how sore their legs felt, an assessment with which professional athletes tend to be familiar.
第二天，运动员重复前一天的体能测试并向研究者汇报腿有多酸，所用指标是职业运动员熟悉的。
It turned out that there were almost no differences between the two groups of players. The cool-down group could, on average, leap a little higher the next day than those who’d sat around for 20 minutes, but the difference was slight. And on all of the other measures of performance, flexibility and muscle soreness, the groups were the same.
结果是，两组运动员肌肉酸痛度几乎没有差别。放松组比静坐组似乎跳得更高，不过差异细微。而在其他表现、柔韧性和肌肉酸痛程度上，两组没有区别。
The available data “quite strongly suggest a cool-down does not reduce postexercise soreness,” says Rob Herbert, a senior research fellow at Neuroscience Research Australia and senior author of what is probably the foundational study of cooling down, from 2007. In that experiment, healthy adults walked backward downhill on a treadmill for 30 minutes, courting sore muscles and curious stares from fellow gymgoers. Some of the volunteers first walked forward for 10 minutes as a warm-up; others did the same afterward, to cool down. Others didn’t warm up or cool down.
现有数据“强烈表明放松练习不能减轻运动后的肌肉酸痛”，澳大利亚神经科学研究所(Neuroscience Research Australia)高级研究员罗伯·赫伯特(Rob Herbert)说。赫伯特在2007年作为资深作者撰写了一份有关放松练习的文章，这可能是相关研究的开山之作。实验中，健康的成年志愿者在跑步机上倒着下坡走，持续30分钟。这种姿势会让参试者肌肉酸痛，也会让健身房里的其他人为之侧目。有些志愿者先正着走10分钟，作为热身；另一些则在锻炼后正着走10分钟作为放松；还有一些既不热身也不放松。
Two days later, the group that had cooled down was every bit as sore as the control group.
两天后，放松组与对照组肌肉同样酸痛。
Given all of these findings, then, is there any valid reason to cool down?
基于上述发现，那么，有什么实实在在的理由让人去做放松练习么？
Yes, says Andrea Fradkin, an associate professor of exercise science at Bloomsburg University in Pennsylvania. “A cool-down has been shown to prevent venous pooling after exercise,” or the buildup of blood in the veins, she says. During prolonged, vigorous exercise, the blood vessels in your legs expand, meaning that more blood moves through them. Stop exercising abruptly, and that blood pools in your lower body, which can lead to dizziness or even fainting.
“有的，”宾夕法尼亚州布鲁斯堡大学(Bloomsburg University)运动科学副教授安德烈娅·弗拉德金(Andrea Fradkin)说：“放松能防止运动后静脉淤血”。经过了长时间的高强度锻炼，你的腿部血管扩张，意味着那儿有更多血液流过。突然停止运动会让血液滞留在你的下半身，可能会让你头昏眼花、甚至晕过去。
The condition is easy to combat, though. Just walk for a few minutes at the end of a workout and you’ll maintain normal circulation to the brain, says Ross Tucker, a South African physiologist and a founder of the estimable Web site The Science of Sport. “And that’s not really a cool-down,” as most of us would define the procedure, he says.
不过这种情况很好解决。锻炼后简单走上几分钟，你就能恢复大脑正常供血。南非生理学家、著名的“体育科学”(The Science of Sport)网站创立者罗斯·塔克(Ross Tucker)说：“而这可不属于我们大多数人定义的正式放松练习。”
Still, if a formal cool-down provides few confirmed physiological benefits, it may have a scientifically squishy, but nevertheless worthwhile psychological effect. “If you’ve done a very hard track session, it’s nice to end with some light jogging,” Dr. Tucker says, just to restore a subjective “sense of normality to your legs.”
就算正式的放松无法提供确切的生理上的好处，它也可能提供科学上虽模棱两可、但值得一做的心理效果。“如果你刚做完高强度跑步训练，轻松地慢跑一会儿是个不错的主意，”塔克博士说，“只为恢复主观上的‘腿部正常状态’。”
A cool-down, in other words, feels nice.
换句话说，放松让人感觉良好。
And it’s important to note that “none of the scientific research shows any negative effects due to performing a cool-down,” Dr. Fradkin says.
弗拉德金博士说，有一点也很重要：“没有一项科学研究显示放松练习会产生不良影响。”
So, in essence, the available science suggests that whatever you’re doing now at the end of a workout is probably fine.
所以归根结底，现有的科学结论告诉我们，锻炼之后无论做什么，貌似都挺好的。
“My feeling is that” unless future science shows otherwise, “people shouldn’t worry about it,” Dr. Herbert says. “If they like to cool down, then it’s not going to hurt them. But if they don’t feel like it, then they shouldn’t feel a need to do it.” 
“我感觉是，除非日后有研究证明放松对人不利，人们不应该对此存有顾虑，”赫伯特博士说，“假如人们愿意放松，这没什么坏处。但如果有谁不想放松，他们也用不着觉得自己本应该那样做。”