CHANGSHA, China — China is slowing down, but the buildings keep going up — until now.
中国长沙——直到现在，中国经济在放缓，大楼却越来越高。
China is home to 60 of the world’s 100 tallest buildings now under construction. But the skyward aspirations of Changsha, the capital of Hunan province, have inspired incredulity tinged with hostility.
全世界在建的100栋最高建筑中，60栋在中国。然而，湖南省会长沙建造摩天大楼的愿望还是引发了带有敌意的怀疑。
Broad Group, a manufacturer based here in Changsha, has been planning to erect the world’s tallest building here this winter, and in record time. The 202-story “Sky City” is supposed to be assembled in only four months from factory-built modules of steel and concrete early next year on the city’s outskirts. The digging of foundations began on July 20.
总部位于长沙的制造业企业远大集团一直在进行规划，准备在今年冬天以创纪录的速度在这里建成世界第一高楼。按计划，四个月的时间之内，202层高的“天空城市”便会由工厂生产的钢筋水泥模块组建而成，于明年上半年屹立在长沙市郊。地基已于7月20日开挖。
But the project’s scale and speed have set off a burst of national introspection in recent days about whether Chinese municipal leaders and developers have gone too far in their increasingly manic reach for the skies.
但最近几天，该工程的规模和速度引爆了全国范围的反省，人们纷纷质疑，市政领导和规划人员与日俱增的攀高狂热是否有些过头。
“The vanity of some local government officials has determined the skylines of cities,” an editorial in the People’s Daily newspaper, the Communist Party’s mouthpiece, said on Aug. 12.
“一些地方官的虚荣心决定了城市的天际线，”《人民日报》在8月12日的一篇社论中说。
On Tuesday, the tycoon behind the project said in a telephone interview that he had ordered a pause in work at the site while waiting for further approvals from regulators in Beijing.
周二，这一工程的幕后大亨在接受电话采访时称，他已下令暂停现场施工，等待从北京的监管机构获得进一步的批准。
“It’s because of all the concern in the media and on the Internet, the government is a little wary and has slowed down the process,” said Zhang Yue, the chairman of the Broad Group.
“因为媒体和网上的担忧，政府有些小心翼翼，放慢了审批程序，”远大集团总裁张跃说。
But he vowed to finish the building, saying that he expected a delay of no more than two to three months, with completion of the building in June or July next year instead of the original plan of finishing it in April. Workers have already dug a large hole in the ground for the foundations and have just laid a four-lane road to the site to bring in large earth-moving equipment.
但他承诺一定会建成大楼，并且表示，工程预计只会延后两、三个月，大楼将于明年6月或7月，而不是最初计划的4月完工。为了打地基，工人们已经在地底下了挖了一个大坑，还刚刚铺了一条通往工地的四车道公路，以便运进大型推土设备。
“No matter how high the obstacles, I will for certain overcome them to make sure this project is completed,” Mr. Zhang said. He declined to identify who in Beijing had delayed his project, but said that he had not been asked to make any tweaks to the design.
“不管障碍有多大，我肯定会克服它们，确保这个工程完工，”张跃说。他拒绝说出是谁在北京让工程延期，但却表示，没人要求他对设计进行任何修改。
David Scott, a prominent structural engineer in London who has worked on many extremely tall buildings, said that regulatory delays were a periodic problem for such projects all over the world, but could usually be overcome.
伦敦知名结构工程师戴维·斯科特(David Scott)说，审批延迟是全世界类似工程都会遇到的周期性问题，但通常都会被克服。他曾参与许多超高大楼的修建。
Local officials here say that while they have transferred the land for Sky City to Broad Group and have been installing electricity and water lines for the project, final approval for the project is still “in progress” from building safety experts in Beijing.
长沙本地的官员称，他们已将修建“天空城市”所需的土地转让给了远大集团，且一直在为该工程安装电线和水管，尽管如此，从北京建筑安全专家那里获得工程最终批准的工作依然“尚未完成”。
The blueprints for Sky City call for a stack of long, skinny rectangles that taper to a narrow top, like a very tall and angular wedding cake. It bears a blocky resemblance to the 110-story Willis Tower in Chicago, formerly the Sears Tower, which was the world’s tallest building until 1998 but is now being left in the shade by numerous rivals.
根据“天空城市”的蓝图，建成的大楼将是一栋很高的窄体矩形建筑，越往上楼体越窄，像是一个很高的、棱角分明的婚礼蛋糕。大楼的块状结构与芝加哥110层高的威利斯大厦(Willis Tower)，也就是以前的西尔斯大楼(Sears Tower)相似。在1998年之前，威利斯大厦一直是世界第一高楼，现在，它正在被许多高楼甩在身后。
Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou and Chongqing, each similar in population to metropolitan New York, are now finishing one building apiece that will top the Willis Tower. Wuhan, the size of greater Houston, is erecting two buildings taller than the Willis Tower and Tianjin, the size of metropolitan Chicago, is constructing three, according to the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, the Chicago nonprofit that tracks skyscraper bragging rights.
现在，人口与纽约都会区相近的北京、上海、深圳、广州和重庆正在各自修建一座高过威利斯大厦的大楼。高层建筑与城市住宅委员会(Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat)是芝加哥的非营利性组织，长年追踪吹嘘大楼高度的信息。该组织称，面积与大休斯顿地区相仿的武汉也在修建两栋高过威利斯大厦的大楼，与芝加哥都会区面积相当的天津则正在修建三栋此类建筑。
Ambitious local officials, together with state-owned companies and state-owned banks, stand behind most of these projects, raising fears that taxpayers may eventually pick up the bill if projects prove uneconomical.
大部分此类工程背后都有野心勃勃的地方官，以及国有企业和国有银行做后盾，致使人们担忧，一旦事实证明工程不赢利，最终埋单的可能会是纳税人。
“If you let the market decide, I don’t think a lot of these tall buildings would proceed,” said Chau Kwong Wing, a professor of real estate and construction at Hong Kong University. Despite public concerns, there is no sign so far that any of the many very tall buildings under construction in China has been blocked by regulators in Beijing, he and Mr. Zhang both noted.
香港大学房地产及建筑系教授邹广荣说，“如果让市场决定的话，我认为许多此类高层建筑都不会开工。”然而，他和张跃都指出，尽管公众感到担忧，到目前为止仍然没有迹象显示，这么多在建的超高建筑中有哪一栋遭到了中央监管机构的封杀。
Sky City is the most ambitious project of all, and so it has become the lightning rod for criticism of the trend. Chinese media have been openly skeptical about the project, questioning its safety, construction speed and the wisdom of relying on prefabricated modules.
“天空城市”是所有在建项目中最野心勃勃的一个，因此变成了批评声浪的众矢之的。中国媒体已经公开对项目表示了怀疑，质疑其安全性、建筑速度和依赖预制组件的策略。
But work nonetheless continued earlier this month at the site. Bulldozers sliced slabs of earth and six drilling rigs bored holes for a drainage system.
尽管如此，本月早些时候，施工依然在继续。推土机把地面切割成板块，六台钻机在为一套排水系统钻洞。
Mr. Zhang said in an interview at his headquarters that he had all the approvals needed to start work, and he and other executives said that it was common in China to keep working pending further approvals.
张跃在总部接受采访时说，他拿到了所有的开工批准文件，他和其他高管都表示，在中国，在等待进一步批准的同时继续施工是一种普遍现象。
If built as planned, the building would be only 10 meters, or 33 feet, taller than the 2,722-foot Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the world’s tallest building since 2010. Sky City would cram 39 more floors into its height than the Burj Khalifa, partly because Sky City would be mostly apartments, which do not need the same hollow spaces under the floors as offices require for wiring and cooling, and partly because the ventilation shafts, electrical wiring and even indoor floor tiles will be packed into the modules while they are still at the factory.
按规划建设的话，这栋大楼将只比2010年以来的全球最高建筑、2722英尺（约合829米）的迪拜哈利法塔(Burj Khalifa)高出10米，即大约33英尺。“天空城市”的躯壳内将被多塞进39层楼，其中的部分原因是，天空城市的大部分楼层都是公寓，公寓不需要像办公室那样在楼层下为布线和制冷系统留出宽大的空间，还有部分原因是，预制组件还在工厂时，通风井、电气布线乃至楼内瓷砖就会被填充进组件。
The bottom 15 floors would include offices, a school with kindergarten through eighth grade and clinics. A schematic from Broad Group shows a hotel near the top and a restaurant and coffee shop at the apex.
“天空城市”最底下的15层楼包括一些办公室、一间带幼儿园的八年制学校和一些诊所。远大集团的设计图显示，接近建筑顶层的位置有一家酒店，建筑最顶部还有一家餐馆和一家咖啡店。
The emphasis on apartments reflects the reviving real estate boom in China – some in China and abroad call it a bubble – as the government has told state-owned banks to lend more in recent months, in response to signs of weaker economic growth.
对公寓的重视表明，随着政府指示国有银行在最近几个月增加放贷，以回应经济增长较为疲软的信号，房地产热潮正在中国复苏，国内外的一些人士把这股热潮称为泡沫。
Mr. Zhang insisted that the local government in Changsha is not bankrolling his project. But he said for the first time in the interview at his headquarters on Aug. 7 that while Broad Group remains the official owner of the building, he has negotiated deals in recent months for the sale of practically the entire building to “four or five” investment companies. He said then that not all of these deals have been completed; on Tuesday, he declined to comment on whether the delay would affect his financing.
张跃坚称，长沙市地方政府没有给他的项目提供资金。不过，今年8月7日，他在总部接受采访时第一次透露，虽然远大集团依然是“天空城市”的正式业主，他还是在近几个月洽谈了几笔交易，目的是把几乎整栋建筑通通卖给“四到五家”投资公司。之后他说，并不是所有交易都已完成；周二，他拒绝对工期延迟是否会影响他的融资置评。
He declined to identify the buyers except to say that they were in the private sector, not part of the government and were spending their own money instead of relying on bank loans. That would be an extremely unusual combination in China, where most large real estate developments depend on low-rate loans that politically connected companies and individuals obtain from state-owned banks.
他拒绝给出买家的名字，只是说它们都是私营企业，而不是政府所属企业，这些企业花的也都是自己的钱，没有依赖银行贷款。这样的情形在中国极不寻常，因为中国大部分大型房地产开发商都在依靠低息贷款，有政治人脉的公司和个人都可以从国有银行获得此类贷款。
Mr. Zhang made his first fortune selling energy-efficient central air conditioning systems. He then moved into construction four years ago, setting up what are now six factories here. Each factory is the length of five football fields laid end to end, and manufactures 13-foot by 51-foot modules for the assembly of high-rises. Mr. Zhang is trying to sell franchises for building module factories to construction companies and steel mills around the world.
张跃通过销售节能的中央空调系统赚到了第一桶金，并于四年前进入建材行业，目前已在长沙建立了六家工厂。每家工厂都有五个足球场连起来那么长，每家工厂都能为摩天大楼的组装生产13英尺乘51英尺的预制组件。张跃正在设法把建设组件工厂的特许加盟权卖给全球各地的建筑公司和轧钢厂。
Mr. Zhang exudes confidence that Sky City tower will be built soon, even at the risk of immodesty. “Things that I envision are definitely going to get done, no doubt,” he said in an interview at his headquarters. “Ordinary people do not know the challenges and issues I face every single day. There are so many issues, 24 hours in a day are not enough for me to deal with all of them.”
即使面临不够谦虚的风险，张跃依然对“天空城市”将会迅速建成的前景表示了信心。他在总部接受采访时说，“毫无疑问，我想办的事情一定能办成。普通人根本不知道我每天面对的挑战和问题。问题太多了，就算每天工作24个小时，也不足以让我应对所有的问题。”
People’s Daily was more glum, noting that the Empire State Building, completed in 1931, took about two decades to fill and become a commercial success – and was initially nicknamed the “Empty State Building.”
《人民日报》更加悲观，该报指出，于1931年完工的帝国大厦花了大约20年才住满并取得商业上的成功，一开始，这栋建筑被人们戏称为“无人国大厦”。