BEIJING — Most of the 458 people aboard a tourist ship that sank Monday night during a torrential rainstorm along a central section of the Yangtze River were still missing on Tuesday morning, according to a report by Xinhua, the state news agency.
北京——根据新华社报道，一艘载有至少458人的客船周一晚间在长江遭遇风暴沉没。周二早上，多数人仍然下落不明。
Just 13 people had been rescued, local news media reported, making this perhaps the worst passenger maritime disaster in East Asia since the sinking of the South Korean ferry Sewol last year.
当地新闻媒体称，目前仅有13人获救。这意味着，这将很可能是东亚地区自去年韩国世越号沉船事故以来最严重的沉船灾难。
The ship, whose name translates to Oriental Star, was crossing Hubei Province in the middle of the country when it sank at 9:28 p.m., the report said, citing the Yangtze River Navigation Administration. Rescue work was hampered by strong winds and heavy rain.
该新闻报道援引长江航务管理局，称这艘名为“东方之星”号的客船周一晚上正穿过中国中部的湖北省，于晚9点29分沉没。由于现场有大风暴雨，搜救十分困难。
The water where the boat sank is about 50 feet deep.  Rescuers could hear the sounds of people trapped inside, according to a Twitter post by China Central Television, the main state network.
客船沉没地区的水深约为50英尺（约15.2米）。救援人员能够听到人员被困的声音，中国主要电视网络中央电视台在Twitter上说。
Most of the passengers were between 50 and 80 years old and had been traveling on a group tour, according to Hubei Daily. The newspaper reported that one body, which appeared to be that of a tour guide, had been discovered. Hundreds of soldiers, police and paramilitary officers were on the scene. More than 100 boats and divers were on the scene, the newspaper reported.
大部分乘客在50岁至80岁之间，为团体旅行团的成员，据《湖北日报》报道。该报纸称，一名被推测为旅行团导游人员的遗体已被发现。并称，数百士兵、警方人员、武警在现场，还有百余艘船只以及潜水员。
The captain and chief engineer were among those rescued, and they said the vessel sank quickly after being caught in a tornado, according to theEnglish version of the Xinhua report. The Chinese version, posted online Tuesday did not mention the rescue of the two officers.
根据新华社的英文版报道， 船长和轮机长均已获救，并称客船在航行至湖北水域时突遇龙卷风瞬间翻沉。周二发表在网上的中文版文章未提到两名船务人员的获救。
The captain and an engineer were detained by the police, Xinhua reported on one of its social media accounts, citing the river administration authorities. The report did not say why they were being held, or whether that was a routine procedure in the investigation.
新华社报道，船长和一名机械师已被警方控制。报道未提及羁押他们的原因，或者这是否属于调查的惯例。
The passengers were largely from relatively wealthy areas of eastern China, according to by Hubei Daily. The newspaper said 204 passengers were from Jiangsu Province, 97 from Shanghai, 11 from Zhejiang Province, 43 from Tianjin, 23 from Shandong Province, 19 from Fujian and 8 from Anhui.
据《湖北日报》，大部分乘客来自中国东部相对富庶的地区，204人来自江苏省，97人来自上海，11人来自浙江省，43人来自天津省，23人来自山东省，19人来自福建省，8人来自安徽省。
The Yangtze River, known in Chinese as Chang Jiang, stretches for 3,915 miles, originating in western China’s Qinghai Province and meandering to Shanghai. It is Asia’s longest river and the third largest in the world.
长江长3915英里（约6300.6千米），自中国西部的青海省发源，蜿蜒流至上海。它是亚洲最长的河，世界第三大河。