BEIJING — China has concluded rescue and recovery efforts surrounding a cruise ship that capsized this month on the Yangtze River and has revised its count of the number of people who were on board and the number of survivors, according to official news media.
北京——官方媒体报道，中国已经结束了对本月在长江上翻沉的一艘游轮进行的搜救和打捞工作，并调整了船上乘客和幸存者的人数。
The government proclaimed an end to the operation over the weekend, almost two weeks after the ship overturned amid rain and high winds. Officials said on Saturday, the last day of the efforts, that the ship, known as the Oriental Star or Eastern Star, had 454 people on board at the time of the accident on June 1, not 456 or 458, as officials had said soon afterward.
周末，在那艘游轮在大雨和强风中倾覆近两周后，政府宣布相关行动结束。官员在周六，也就是行动的最后一天表示，6月1日发生事故时，“东方之星”上搭载了454人，而不是官员在事故发生不久以后所说的456或458人。
The death count remains the same: The police have identified 442 bodies by using DNA samples and have turned the bodies over to relatives, according to Xinhua, the state-run news agency.
遇难者人数没变。官方通讯社新华社称，警方已利用DNA样本确认了442具遗体的身份，并将其移交给了亲属。
At a news conference on Saturday in Jianli, the town in Hubei Province in central China near where the ship capsized, an official, Tang Guanjun, said the number of survivors was actually 12, not 14, as officials had said earlier. He said there had been a miscount of survivors because two people had been recorded separately by different “government organs,” Xinhua reported. He did not give details about the agencies involved in the mistake.
周六，在翻沉事故发生地附近的湖北省监利县召开的一场新闻发布会上，一位名叫唐冠军的官员称，获救人员实际为12人，而非官员早前所说的14人。据新华社报道，唐冠军称，获救人数出现错误是因为其中两人被不同“单位”重复统计了。
Mr. Tang also explained why the official count of the people on board the ship was 458 on June 2. At the time, that number was broken down as 406 tourists, 47 crew members and five tour guides, he said, based on a list provided by the company that owned the ship.
唐冠军还解释了为何官方之前称6月2日船上有458人。他说，当时根据轮船公司提供的名单，以为船上有游客406名、船员47名、旅行社工作人员5名。
But further investigation led officials to conclude that one crew member had left at a previous stop and that a tourism agency had, on paper, mistakenly added five tourists to the passenger list; those five were actually on another tour. The agency had also failed to properly record two new tourists who had joined the Oriental Star trip later.
但经过进一步的调查，官员断定其中一名船员已在前一站下船，并且一家旅行社误将5名游客统计到了“东方之星”的乘客名单上。那5人实际搭乘的是另一艘船。该旅行社还漏报了后来上船的2名游客。
Li Baojun, deputy director of the central office of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, said at the news conference that by 1 p.m. Saturday, 426 bodies had been cremated. In total, 270 items that belonged to passengers were salvaged from the river, he said, and 265 of those had already been claimed by family members.
民政部办公厅副主任李保俊在新闻发布会上介绍，截至周六下午1点，遇难者遗体已火化426具。他表示，已从水中打捞出了总计270件乘客物品，其中265件已由家属领取。
The company that operated the ship, the Chongqing Oriental Ferry Company, suspended its operations after the accident and asked its other five cruise ships on the Yangtze to dock. Officials are investigating the company.
事故发生后，沉船的运营方重庆东方轮船公司暂停运营，并要求其在长江上的另外五艘船进港停靠。官员正在对其进行调查。