The notion of “making a good match,” a staple of the writings of Jane Austen and Henry James, continues in contemporary romance novels. At the same time, income inequality commands increasing attention from economists. Lately we’ve been learning just how much these two topics are tied together.
“天作之合”不仅是简·奥斯汀(Jane Austen)和亨利·詹姆斯(Henry James)作品中的常见主题，也在当代的爱情小说中得到了延续。与此同时，收入不平等问题引起了经济学家越来越多的关注。最近我们了解到，这两个主题之间有很深的关联。
These days, an investment banker may marry another investment banker rather than a high school sweetheart, or a lawyer will marry another lawyer, or a prestigious client, rather than a secretary. Whether measured in terms of income or education, there are more so-called power couples today than in the past, one manifestation of a phenomenon known as assortative mating, or more generally the pairing of like with like.
如今，一位投资银行家可能会与另一位投资银行家结婚，而不是和高中时代的恋人；律师会和另一名律师结合，或者一位知名客户，而不是秘书。现在无论是以收入或教育程度衡量，比翼高飞的夫妇都比以往更多。这体现了一种称为“同型婚配”(assortative mating)的现象，也就是通常所说的“门当户对”。
These matches are great for those individuals who can build prosperous and happy family alliances, but they also propagate inequality across the generations. Of all the causes behind growing income inequality, in the longer run this development may prove one of the most significant and also one of the hardest to counter.
如果你有能力组建富裕幸福的家庭，这种婚配模式非常不错，但它也会导致不平等的状况世代延续下去。收入差距日益拉大的原因有很多，从长远看，这种婚配模式可能是最显著的原因之一，也是最难消除的原因之一。
For instance, the achievement gap between children from rich and poor families is higher today than it was 25 years ago, according to a recent study from the Pew Research Center. Furthermore, higher income and educational inequality increase the incentive to seek out a good marriage match, so the process may become self-reinforcing.
例如，皮尤研究中心(Pew Research Center)最近的一项研究显示，与25年前相比，穷孩子和富家子之间的成绩差距已经拉大。此外，收入和教育越是不平等，人们就越是希望找到优质的结婚对象，所以这个过程可能会自我强化。
Money and talent become clustered in high-powered, two-earner families determined to do everything possible to advance the interests of their children. There is some long-term benefit for society, since many innovators and business creators will receive their initial boosts early in their lives, including the very best training in childhood, and that may enhance their eventual productivity.
金钱和才能都聚集在了配偶双方都能力很强、都能赚钱的家庭，这些父母决心尽一切可能来提升子女的利益。长期而言，这种现象会给社会带来一些好处，因为很多创新者和商业开拓者在人生的早期阶段就受到了培养，包括在童年时就得到的一流教育，这些因素可能会提升他们最终的产出。
But there are also serious economic costs. As it becomes harder for many people to “marry up” as a path for income mobility for themselves or their children, families that are not well connected may feel disengaged, and the significant, family-based advantages for some children may discourage others from even trying.
但这也会导致严重的经济损失。随着通过“高攀”联姻让自己或孩子获得更多收入变得更加困难，人脉不广的家庭也可能觉得与社会脱节；一些孩子拥有家庭带来的明显优势，而另一些孩子可能连尝试都不会去尝试。
The numbers show that assortative mating really matters. One study indicated that if the marriage patterns of 1960 were imported into 2005, the Gini coefficient for the American economy — the standard measure of income inequality — would fall to 0.34 from 0.43, a considerable drop, given that the scale runs from zero to one. That result is from the economist Jeremy Greenwood, a professor of economics at the University of Pennsylvania, and other co-authors.
数据显示，同型婚配确实事关重大。一项研究表明，如果1960年的婚姻模式延续到2005年，美国经济的基尼(Gini)系数——衡量收入不平等程度的指标——将从0.43下降到0.34。这个降幅很可观，因为基尼系数的区间在0到1之间。该结论是宾夕法尼亚大学(University of Pennsylvania)经济学教授杰里米·格林伍德(Jeremy Greenwood)与合著者共同得出的。
A study of Denmark by Gustaf Bruze, a researcher at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, showed that about half of the expected financial gain of attending college derived not from better job prospects but from the chance to meet and marry a higher-earning spouse.
古斯塔夫·布鲁泽(Gustaf Bruze)是斯德哥尔摩卡罗琳医学院(Karolinska Institute)的研究员，他对丹麦开展的一项研究表明，在上大学带来的预期财务收益中，约有一半来自遇到高收入配偶的机会，而不是更好的就业前景。
There’s not much data on American assortative mating before early in the last century, but a recent paper by Robert D. Mare, a professor of sociology at the University of California, Los Angeles, showed that assortative mating was relatively more common in America’s Gilded Age, fell and reached a much lower level in the 1950s, and afterward started and continued to rise.
上世纪初之前，美国有关同型婚配的数据很少，但加州大学洛杉矶分校(University of California, Los Angeles)社会学教授罗伯特·D·马雷(Robert D. Mare)最近的一篇文章指出，同型婚配在美国的镀金时代(Gilded Age)比较多见，到1950年代时已经大大下降，后来又开始持续上升。
The G.I. Bill may have helped lower assortative mating, because it gave opportunities for upward mobility to economic classes that had not enjoyed it. In general, the greater the number of men entering the middle class, the more socioeconomic mixing will occur.
《退伍军人安置法案》(G.I. Bill)或许在一定程度上降低了同型婚配的比例，因为该法案为一些经济阶层提供了向上流动的机遇，他们之前并不享有这种机会。总体而言，进入中产阶级的男性越多，社会经济阶层混合的情况就越多见。
In 1950 it was also the case that marriage ages were especially young, meaning that couples often paired off from high school and may have had less of a sense how to match to each other by expected income or education. And most women had fewer chances to earn very much, so few if any men were searching hard to find future law partners or doctors.
在1950年，还有另外一个情况：当时结婚年龄很小，也就是说人们刚高中毕业就结婚了，对于双方预期收入或教育水平的对比可能也没有太多意识。多数女性赚得高收入的机会较少，所以也没有多少男性，努力要找一个未来的医生或律所合伙人当妻子。
Economics itself shows patterns of assortative mating. In 2007, an article in The New York Times cited 13 up-and-coming economists, most of whom have gone on to greater fame. The striking fact is that six of these individuals are married to each other, and that was not the premise of the article. Another person on the list, Justin Wolfers, is a partner with another prominent economist, Betsey Stevenson, with both working at the University of Michigan. (They have two children together but are not legally married; Professor Wolfers is a frequent contributor to The Times.) The children from these kinds of pairings probably have a head start when it comes to pursuing successful careers as research scientists or in other education-intensive endeavors.
经济学界本身也体现了同型婚配的模式。《纽约时报》2007年的一篇报道提到了13名崭露头角的经济学家，其中大多数人后来享有了更大的声誉。令人惊奇的是，其中有六人是三对夫妇，这并不是写那篇文章的前提。名单上的另一人——贾斯汀·沃尔弗斯(Justin Wolfers)是著名经济学家贝特西·史蒂文森(Betsey Stevenson)的伴侣，两人都在密歇根大学(University of Michigan)工作。（他们有两个孩子，但没有结婚；沃尔弗斯教授经常为时报撰文。）这种伴侣培养的孩子，作为研究型科学家，或在其他需要大量教育的事业当中，可能会占得先机。
Universal preschool, further experiments with charter schools, and higher subsidies or tax credits for children are among the policy innovations that might lift opportunities for children of lower earners. Even if those are good ideas, it is not clear how much they can overturn the advantage that comes from being a child of highly educated, highly motivated parents with lots of will and also money to spend on lessons, outings, travel and other investments in the future of their children.
一些政策创新可能会提升低收入家庭的儿童的机遇，比如学前教育的普及、特许学校进一步的实验，针对儿童提供更高的补贴或税收优惠。尽管这些都是好主意，但并不清楚能在多大程度追赶上其他孩子的优势，比如在父母受过高等教育、进取心很强，并且有意愿也有钱让孩子上课、郊游、旅行，并为孩子的未来作出其他投资的家庭。
Today, we rightfully reject the idea of eugenics as repugnant, yet we are conducting our own experiments in mating, without much careful thought as to where they will lead. Match.com and Tinder help us find “just the right mate,” according to our prior desires and specifications, with aid from computer algorithms. The real question may be not whether we can reverse some of the less desired effects of assortative mating, but rather just how far the practice will go.
如今，我们理所当然地认为优生学这个概念是可憎的，但我们自己却在进行婚配实验，而且没有仔细考虑结果会走向何处。Match.com和Tinder等服务用计算机算法，根据我们最看重的喜好和要求，帮助我们找到“合适的伴侣”。真正的问题可能不是我们能否扭转同型婚配带来的负面影响，而是这样的做法能达到什么程度。