The women came from different countries with the same dream: to leave behind the poverty of their villages. But instead of working as domestic help, they found themselves in a kind of prison, employed by people who treated them like something less than human. One was stabbed with a knife, another doused in boiling water, another raped and jailed.
这些来自不同国家的妇女有一个共同的梦想：走出她们村子里的贫困生活。然而，帮别人做家务的工作却让她们陷入了某种牢狱，受雇于不把她们当人对待的雇主。她们中有被刀捅过的，有被沸水浇身的，还有被强奸之后入狱的。
With his latest project, photographer Steve McCurry, best known for his work in war-torn countries like Afghanistan, has documented the suffering of women from Indonesia, Nepal and the Philippines who endured a myriad of abuses while working for families elsewhere in Asia and the Middle East.
摄影师史蒂夫·麦柯里(Steve McCurry)以他在饱受战争蹂躏的国家、比如阿富汗的工作而闻名。他用自己最新的工作记录了这些来自印度尼西亚、尼泊尔和菲律宾的妇女的苦难，这些妇女在给亚洲和中东国家的家庭工作中遭受了无数的虐待。
“They’re at the complete mercy of these people who see them almost like slaves: ‘You’re my property, you’ll do what I say,’” Mr. McCurry, 64, said. “They go home, and they’re disfigured, and they don’t have money, and they’re psychologically scarred. They end up coming home humiliated, and it becomes like a stigma. In a way, their lives are ruined.”
“她们完全凭任那些人支配，那些人把她们几乎像奴隶那样对待：‘你是我的财产，我让你干什么，你就得干什么。’”64岁的麦柯里说。“她们回到家中后面目全非，她们没有钱，但心理伤痕累累。她们饱受羞辱回到家中，好像干了丢脸的事情。从某种意义上来说，她们的人生被毁掉了。”
It is not necessarily a new story. A Malaysian couple was recently sentenced to be hanged for murdering their Indonesian maid by starving her, the latest in a series of headline-grabbing outrages. Responding to horrific treatment in countries like Saudi Arabia, the International Labor Organization, or ILO, a branch of the United Nations, passed a treaty to protect domestic workers in 2011.
这其实并不是一个新故事。一对马来西亚夫妇最近因谋杀罪被判处绞刑，因为他们饿死了他们雇佣的印尼女佣，这是一系列引人注目的暴行中最新的一例。联合国分支机构国际劳工组织(International Labor Organization，简称ILO)，为应对比如沙特阿拉伯等国发生的虐待女佣问题，于2011年通过一项条约，以保护从事家务的工人。
Yet the abuses continue, and only 14 countries have ratified the treaty.Mr. McCurry has always had an eye for portraits, for the survivors who make it through war. His best-known picture, known simply as “Afghan girl,” is of a 12-year-old Afghan girl with green eyes staring straight at the camera, published by National Geographic in 1985.
然而，虐待仍在继续，上述条约只在14个国家正式生效。麦柯里一直对肖像照有特别的眼力，能捕捉到战争幸存者的面部表情。他最有名的那张名为“阿富汗少女”的照片，发表在1985年的一期美国《国家地理》杂志上，照片上是一名12岁的阿富汗女孩，她绿色的眼睛直视着镜头。
These new photos are unsettling. In several, the young women show their scars. One Indonesian woman displays her naked back, with purple scars that look something like wings, from boiling water poured on her in Malaysia. A Nepali woman cradles her pregnant belly, the proof of her rape while working in the Middle East — and how she was jailed for adultery afterward.
他的新照片令人不安。在一些照片中，年轻的女性展示出自己的伤疤。一名印度尼西亚妇女展示了自己赤裸的背部，上面有看似翅膀的紫色疤痕，是她在马来西亚被沸水浇身的后果。一名尼泊尔女子捧着自己怀孕的肚子，那是她在中东工作时被强奸的证明，而她却因通奸罪被判了监禁。
Some women stare straight at the camera, but not with the defiance shown by other subjects of Mr. McCurry. Instead, their eyes show pain, and almost beg viewers to pay attention to what happened. Mr. McCurry described taking such a portrait as a collaboration with his subject.
有的妇女眼睛直视摄像头，但不以麦柯里拍摄的其他对象的那种蔑视的眼光，而是充满痛苦的眼光，几乎是在恳求观众，希望他们关心发生了的事情。麦柯里把肖像照描述为自己与摄影对象的一次合作。
“I think the best way to actually photograph somebody is to really look into their eyes,” he said. “The eyes are so expressive, they say so much about a person … I find it more direct and more simple and more honest to shoot people looking straight into my lens.”
“我觉得拍摄人的最好方法，是直对他们的眼睛，”他说。“眼睛的表情如此丰富，它们如此之深地表达着人的内心......我觉得，拍摄直视镜头的人是更直接、更简单、更诚实的方法。”
Mr. McCurry, who has spent about 35 years in Asia, came to this project through Karen Emmons, 54, a Bangkok-based journalist who became interested in the abuse of domestic workers about seven years ago, while researching an ILO report in Indonesia. After winning a small grant from the ILO, she enlisted Mr. McCurry to take the photographs, hoping that his skill and stature could win more attention for the women.
在亚洲工作了已约35年的麦柯里，是通过凯伦·埃蒙斯(Karen Emmons)接触到这个项目的，54岁的埃蒙斯是一位驻曼谷的记者，大约七年前，她在印度尼西亚为国际劳工组织的一份报告做研究时，开始感兴趣家务工人受虐待的问题。在得到国际劳工组织的一笔小经费之后，她请了麦柯里来拍照片，希望能通过他的摄影技巧和名声为这些妇女赢得更多的关注。
They visited shelters in Hong Kong and women back in the Philippines, Indonesia and Nepal, spending a week in each place. Ms. Emmons paved the way for Mr. McCurry at each stop, working with local aid groups to find women willing to be photographed.
他们去了香港的庇护所，还采访了返回菲律宾、印度尼西亚和尼泊尔的妇女，在每个地方呆上一周。埃蒙斯在每个地方为麦柯里做准备工作，通过与当地救援组织合作，寻找愿意被拍照的女性。
Ms. Emmons said she was after scars.
埃蒙斯说，她要找的是有伤疤的人。
“I had trouble getting to people to begin with, as soon as I said I’m looking for people with scars,” she admitted. “Some thought it would traumatize the women. Some thought it was just sensational. I said, ‘It’s important you show the evidence. You can’t just talk about it. People can’t just hear about it, they have to see it.’”If a woman was willing, Ms. Emmons spent an hour or two talking to her before introducing Mr. McCurry. She said she was wary of potential pitfalls, of bringing a male photographer into take sometimes deeply personal pictures.
“开始时，只要我说我要找有伤疤的人，就很难找到人，”她承认。“有些人认为，那会给这些妇女带来精神创伤。有些人认为，那只是为了哗众取宠。我说，‘展示证据很重要。你不能只是说有这种事。人们不能只听说，他们需要看到证据。’”如果一位妇女答应被拍照，埃蒙斯会花一两个小时和她交谈，然后把她介绍给麦柯里。她说，带一个男摄影师来拍有时是涉及很深的私人情况的照片，她对可能遇到的困难十分谨慎。
Some women had been disowned by their families. One was in hiding. And one woman — Ms. Emmons said she counted more than 30 scars on her — married a man after she came home. He also came to the photo shoot.
有些妇女的家庭已经断绝与她们的关系。有一位在隐藏之中。还有一位妇女回家后与一名男子结了婚，埃蒙斯说，在这位妇女身上数到30多条伤疤，她的男人也来到了照片拍摄点。