The idea that glaciers change at a glacial speed is increasingly false. They are melting and retreating rapidly all over the world. But the unpredictable flood surges at the Mendenhall Glacier, about 14 miles from downtown Juneau, Alaska’s capital, are turning a jog into a sprint as global temperatures and climate variability increase.
人们越来越不相信冰川变化速度极其缓慢这个观点。全球的冰川都在快速融化、消退。但随着全球气温升高和气候变异加剧，距离阿拉斯加首府朱诺市中心约14英里（约23公里）的门登霍尔冰川出人意料地爆发洪水，水流从缓速变成急涌。
Starting in July 2011, and each year since, sudden torrents of water shooting out from beneath the glacier have become a new facet of Juneau’s brief, shimmering high summer season. In that first, and so far biggest, measured flood burst, an estimated 10 billion gallons gushed out in three days, threatening homes and property along the Mendenhall River that winds through part of the city. There have been at least two smaller bursts this year.
从2011年7月开始，之后的每一年，从这座冰川下喷涌而出的水流已成为朱诺短暂的、波光粼粼盛夏时节的新特色。这是第一次，也是迄今为止测得规模最大的洪水爆发，三天里估计涌出了100亿加仑（380亿升）水，危及门登霍尔河沿岸的房屋财产，该河流经朱诺市的部分地区。今年已经出现了至少两次较小规模的激流。
“That first one caught us by surprise,” said Tom Mattice, the emergency programs manager and avalanche forecaster for the City and Borough of Juneau.
“第一次激流让我们都大吃一惊，”朱诺市应急项目主管兼雪崩预报员汤姆·马蒂斯(Tom Mattice)说。
That the Mendenhall Glacier is thinning, and has been for decades, is only part of the explanation. Water from snowmelt, rain and thawing ice are also combining in new ways, researchers said — first pooling in an ice-covered depression near the glacier called Suicide Basin, then finding a way to flow downhill.
门登霍尔冰川正在融化，且也已持续了几十年，但这只是引发洪水的部分原因。研究人员说，冰雪融水和雨水也正在以新的方式汇集在一起：首先汇集到冰川附近一个叫做自杀盆地的由冰盖住的洼地，然后沿山坡流下。
What prompts a surge, and the urgent search for a way to anticipate and prepare by scientists and safety officials like Mr. Mattice, is pressure. As water builds up in the basin and seeks an outlet, it can actually lift portions of the glacier ever so slightly, and in that lift, the water finds a release. Under the vast pressure of the ice bearing down upon it, the water explodes out into the depths of Mendenhall Lake and from there into the river.
引发激流的是压力，而促使科学家以及像马蒂斯这样的安全官员急于寻找一种方式来预测激流并做好准备的，同样是压力。随着自杀盆地里水位升高，水流寻找出口，水实际上能将这座冰川的一部分稍稍抬高，在抬高冰川的这个过程中，水会得到释放。在顶上冰盖的巨大压力下，水会喷出，流入门登霍尔湖的深处，再从那儿流进河里。
Glaciologists even have a name for the process, which is happening in many places all over the world as climates change: jokulhlaup, an Icelandic word usually translated as “glacier leap.”
冰川学家甚至还为这个过程起了个名字叫jokulhlaup，这是冰岛语中的一个词，通常被翻译成“冰川跳跃”。随着气候发生变化，这个过程正在全球许多地方上演。
“We don’t have a sense yet how much of a threat this poses, or how much water you could store up there,” said Jason Amundson, an assistant professor of geophysics at the University of Alaska Southeast, in Juneau.
“我们还不知道这会造成多大威胁，或是那儿能储存多少水，”位于朱诺的阿拉斯加东南大学(University of Alaska Southeast)地球物理助理教授贾森·阿蒙森(Jason Amundson)说。
What elevates the concern is the proximity of people, and lots of them. Glaciers may be leaping in many places, but it mostly happens in isolation.
加剧担忧的是它离大量居民很近。冰川可能会在许多地方“跳跃”，但主要是在偏僻的地方。
The roughly 12-mile-long Mendenhall, by contrast, is one of the most visited glaciers in the world, and an urban one. About 400,000 tourists a year, 80 percent of them from the cruise ships that stop at the Port of Juneau, are drawn to the glacier.
相比之下，大致12英里长的门登霍尔冰川是全世界参观人数最多的冰川之一，也是一座位于城市的冰川。这座冰川每年会吸引大约40万游客，其中80%的游客来自停靠在朱诺港的游轮。
“We’re a drive-up glacier,” said Nikki Hinds, the assistant director at the Mendenhall Glacier Visitor Center, which is operated by the Forest Service. “In how many places can you have that?”
“这是一个开车就能到的冰川，”美国林务局(Forest Service)负责运行的门登霍尔冰川游客中心(Mendenhall Glacier Visitor Center)助理主任尼基·海因兹(Nikki Hinds)说，“能有多少这样的冰川？”
This summer, glacier-monitoring intensified. A pressure transducer to gauge water buildup, partly paid for by the city, was installed in a deep crack on the edge of the basin, with a satellite link sending back real-time data about the glacier’s hidden waterworks. A time-lapse camera was also positioned at the main pooling site for the first time to track bulges in the ice that could suggest dammed-up water.
今夏，有关部门加强了对冰川的监控。一个压力传感器被安装在盆地边缘的深壑中，用以测量积聚的融水，传感器附带的卫星连接线会返回实时数据，这些数据与冰川内的暗河有关，朱诺市承担了传感器的部分费用。有关部门还首次在主要的水流汇聚点安装定时相机，以追踪冰层上的隆起，这种隆起可能表示水流受到了阻拦。
“The biggest thing we don’t know is what’s blocking what,” said Jamie Pierce, a mountaineer and researcher at the university. Mr. Pierce was out on the Mendenhall ice on a recent afternoon, checking the instruments. After rappelling about 50 feet to the transducer, he found it completely dry, suggesting that the water was finding another channel, or another damming point, than the one suspected of causing the trouble.
“我们不知道的最大问题是，是什么阻碍了什么。”阿拉斯加东南大学登山队员兼研究员杰米·皮尔斯(Jamie Pierce)说。最近的一个下午，皮尔斯来到门登霍尔冰川查看设备。他抓着绳索下降了约15米，来到传感器旁，他发现，传感器完全是干的，这表明，融水在寻找另一个通道，或者另一个积水点，而不是疑似引发问题的那一个。
Like glaciers the world over, the Mendenhall has thinned and retreated hundreds of feet since visitors first started coming here in the late 1800s. Long-term climate models suggest a warmer, wetter pattern in this part of Alaska, which could have its own strange ripple of consequences for the Mendenhall and the people who love it, study it and live by it.
和全球各地的冰川一样，自参观者于19世纪末第一次来到此地以来，门登霍尔冰川已经变薄，而且后退了几百英尺。长期气候模型显示，阿拉斯加的这部分地区正在经历越来越暖、越来越潮湿的气候模式，这种模式可能会带来奇怪的连锁后果，影响门德霍尔冰川和那些热爱它、研究它和以它为生的人。
Warmer temperatures could mean more rain and less snow at lower elevations, said Tom Ainsworth, the meteorologist in charge at the National Weather Service office in Juneau. That could intensify runoff and the frequency of surges. But more precipitation, he said, could also bring more snow to higher elevations. Greater annual snowfall, repeated over many years, could cause some glaciers, or portions of glaciers, to grow as snow compacts into the ice.
国家气象局(National Weather Service)驻朱诺办公室负责人、气象学家汤姆·安斯沃斯(Tom Ainsworth)说，更温暖的气候可能意味着在海拔较低的地区，降雨会更多，而降雪会更少。这可能会加大水流溢出和激流的频率。不过，他说，更多的降水也可能给海拔较高的地区带来更多降雪。鉴于雪会压缩成冰，多年中反复出现的较大的年度降雪量，会造成一些冰川（或这些冰川的部分位置）的增长。
That paradoxical picture — glaciers shrinking, glaciers growing, more rain, more snow, more heat — can be difficult to communicate or grasp in the brief time that most tourists spent at the glacier.
多数游客只在冰川做短暂的停留，在这段时间内，也许难以向他们传达，或让他们理解这种自相矛盾的情形，即冰川缩减、冰川增长、更多的雨水、更多的雪，以及更高的温度。
“You’re on a time schedule,” said Sherry Reese, 65, a retired corporate travel manager from Denton, Tex., who was walking on a trail near the visitor center on a one-hour tour last week with her husband, Alan. “That’s it. You saw it. Next!”
“你会照时间表参观，”65岁的谢莉·里斯(Sherry Reese)说，“好了，你看见冰川了，下一站！”里斯是一名退休的企业差旅经理，来自德克萨斯州登顿，上周，她和丈夫艾伦·里斯(Alan Reese)参加了这个地点的一小时游览行程，说话时他们正走在游客中心附近的一条小道上。
Mr. Reese said the net result is that most people are probably not able to even imagine the glacier changing at all, so big and eternal it can seem in its blue-tinged majesty.
艾伦·里斯说，这种行程的单纯结果是，大多数人也许甚至根本无法想象冰川在改变，蓝色的冰川雄伟壮观，看上去如此巨大，似乎能万古长存。
“They see what they see and that’s what it is, not recognizing what it was 500 years ago,” said Mr. Reese, who, like his wife, was wearing a sweatshirt against the chill of the ice, with “Alaska” printed across the front.
他说，“游客们只会眼见为实，他们看到冰川的现状，不会意识到它500年前是什么模样。”他和妻子一样，都穿着运动衫，以抵御冰川的寒气，运动衫的正面印有“阿拉斯加”的字样。