TOKYO — Early last month, a quarter century after Emperor Hirohito’s death in 1989, Japan’s Imperial Household Agency released the official record of his life. The 61 volumes contain a great wealth of previously unavailable material and some fascinating trivia: Who knew that the imperial family has been exchanging Christmas presents since at least 1907? The Japanese media have been digging in.
东京——上个月初，在距1989年裕仁天皇(Emperor Hirohito)去世已经过去四分之一个世纪的时候，日本宫内厅(Imperial Household Agency)发布了的官方传记。这部61卷的传记包含了大量此前无法为世人获知的珍贵史料，以及一些引人入胜的细节：谁会知道，皇室家族至少从1907年开始就在圣诞节互赠礼物了呢？日本媒体一直在从中挖掘素材。
I haven’t waded through the books, but scholars are already noting that they studiously avoid addressing Hirohito’s part in Japan’s actions leading up to and during World War II.
我还没有看完这套传记，不过，一些学者已经注意到，书中没有谈论裕仁天皇在二战之前和战争期间在日本一些做法中的责任，而是刻意回避了这部分内容。
A couple of weeks ago, the historian Herbert Bix wrote in an op-ed for this paper that he had received an email from “an employee at one of Japan’s largest newspapers” asking him to comment on an embargoed excerpt from the record of Hirohito’s life. “But there was a condition,” Bix explained. “I could not discuss Hirohito’s ‘role and responsibility’ in World War II.” And so Bix refused, he said. Some 70 years after the end of the war, the subject is considered taboo in Japan’s mainstream media.
两周前，历史学者赫伯特·比克斯(Herbert Bix)在为本报撰写的一篇观点文章中说，他收到了“日本一家大型报纸的工作人员”的电子邮件，请他对裕仁天皇传记正式出版前一段不可外传的内容发表评论。“但有一个条件，”比克斯写道，“我不能谈论裕仁天皇在二战中的‘角色与责任’。”比克斯说，自己因此拒绝了这个请求。在这场战争结束了近70年之后，该话题仍然被日本的主流媒体视作禁忌。
Which only makes it that much more remarkable that almost four decades ago, a Japanese journalist named Koji Nakamura asked Hirohito the question no one dared to ask. On Oct. 31, 1975, a few weeks after a visit to the United States, Hirohito and his wife held a public press conference at the palace. Nakamura, who participated as a representative of the London Times, was one of the very few reporters called upon to ask an unscripted question.
因此，有一件事就更加不同寻常：近40年前，一位名叫中村康二(Koji Nakamura)的日本记者问了裕仁天皇一个无人敢提的问题。1975年10月31日，裕仁天皇和皇后在美国之行的几周后在皇宫举行了一次公开的新闻发布会。作为伦敦《泰晤士报》(The London Times)的代表，中村康二是少数获得即兴提问机会的记者之一。
“At the White House, your majesty referred to ‘that most unfortunate war, which I deeply deplore,"’ he began. “May we interpret this to mean that you yourself feel responsible for the war itself, including the fact that Japan waged it in the first place? In addition, may I ask you to share your thoughts about so-called war responsibility?”
“天皇陛下，您在白宫说，‘我深深地为那场不幸的战争感到悲痛，’”他开始问道。“这是不是可以理解为您对战争感到负有责任，包括日本率先发动了战争的事实？另外，我想问陛下对所谓的战争责任是如何认识的？”
In a sense, the question was pointless. Hirohito did not answer anything meaningful: “Since I have not delved much into literary matters, these little tricks of language are beyond me, and I am unable to answer such a question.”
从某种程度上看，这个问题未能达到目的。裕仁没有做出有实际意义的回答：“由于我对文学没有过深入的研究，对于这样的字眼，我并不明白，回答不了这个问题。”
Yet this was a moment in postwar Japanese history without parallel. Although Hirohito lived for another 14 years, to my knowledge, he held no other press conferences; if the journalist had remained silent, the emperor would have died without once being publicly asked by a citizen of Japan to take responsibility for his catastrophic failures. Nakamura’s question may have gone unanswered, but he deserves a place in history simply for asking it.
然而，这仍然是日本战后历史上一个绝无仅有的时刻。尽管裕仁天皇此后又活了14年，但据我所知，他再未举办过新闻发布会；如果这名记者当时选择了沉默，那么在裕仁天皇有生之年，将没有任何一名日本公民公开要求他为自己灾难性的失败承担责任。中村康二的问题或许是没有得到答案，不过，单是因为他提出了这个问题，他就应该在历史上占有一席之地。
Instead, he has been all but forgotten. The one reporter to have touched on Nakamura’s challenge to Hirohito is David Tharp, the only non-Japanese participant at that 1975 press conference. In an article published the next morning in the English-language Mainichi Daily News, he said Nakamura had “swept aside” the “ultimate taboo in Japanese newspaper circles.” He described the reaction of their Japanese colleagues: “It was the one question that seemed to freeze the reporters with collective interest. Pens poised over notebooks as if for lack of knowing how to move for a brief instant.” He added, “Then there was what appeared to be a mutual relaxation because the question which everyone secretly was tensed to hear had finally been asked.”
然而恰恰相反，他几乎被彻底遗忘。只有一位记者提到过中村康二对裕仁天皇的这次挑战，那就是新闻发布会上唯一的非日籍与会者戴维·撒普(David Tharp)。在第二天早上发表在英文版《每日新闻》(Mainichi Daily News)上的一篇文章中，他说中村康二“抛开了日本报界的大忌”。他描述了那些日本同行的反应：“唯有这个问题似乎让拥有共同兴趣的记者们呆住了。在短暂的瞬间，他们的笔停留在笔记本上方，似乎不知道如何移动。”他接着写道，“然后似乎彼此都放松了，因为大家背地里都害怕听到的这个问题，终于被提出来了。”
I spent the past month trying to track down information about Nakamura. I have been unable to contact David Tharp, and an email I sent to the chief of this paper’s Tokyo bureau went unanswered. I did succeed in meeting a few former colleagues and acquaintances, though, and gleaning a few facts about the first half of this unusual journalist’s life.
过去一个月里，我在努力搜寻有关中村康二的信息。我一直未能联系到戴维·撒普。我给本报的东京分社社长发了一封邮件，但未收到回复。不过，我的确成功地见到了中村康二的一些前同事和熟人，搜集到了这位不同寻常的记者前半生的一些事实。
Nakamura was born in 1918. When he was 13 he got a job as a gofer at the Mainichi newspaper offices in Kobe. In his free time, he took English classes at the YMCA’s foreign language school and the Palmore Institute. In 1942, Mainichi sent him to Manila to work at a new local newspaper. He stayed after the defeat of Japan in World War II, as an interpreter for soldiers accused of war crimes; many could not speak English.
中村康二生于1918年。13岁时，他得到了在《每日新闻》位于神户的办公室当勤杂工的机会。在空闲时间里，他在基督教青年会（Young Men's Christian Association，简称YMCA）的外语学校和帕尔默尔学院(Palmore Institute)修了英语课。1942年，《每日新闻》将他派往马尼拉新办的一家地方报社工作。日本在二战中战败后，他仍留在那里，为被控犯有战争罪的军人充当翻译，因为他们中的许多人不会说英语。
He wrote about this experience after he returned to Japan in 1949. From those writings it appears that in addition to interpreting at trials, he also translated the letters that soldiers wrote “in a special prison with a gallows” immediately before they were hanged. It was his task to take dictation of their final wishes.
1949年回到日本后，他写到过这段经历。从这些作品来看，除了在庭审时做口译员外，他还帮忙翻译即将接受绞刑的士兵在“一座设有绞刑架的特别监狱里”写的信。记录他们的临终遗愿是他的工作。
He was well aware of the brutality of the Manila massacre of February 1945, in which Japanese soldiers slaughtered some 100,000 civilians. The fundamental horror of that event, he wrote, stemmed from the fact that Japan’s militarism, pegged to a cult of the emperor as a living god, was devoid of any respect for “the value or the sanctity of human life.”
他很清楚1945年2月发生在马尼拉的大屠杀暴行。在那场大屠杀中，日军杀害了大约10万名平民。他写道，这次事件根本上的恐怖之处源于一个事实：与把天皇当做活着的神来崇拜密不可分的日本军国主义，完全缺乏对“人生命的价值或神圣性”的尊重。