NAMIE, Japan — His may be one of the world’s more quixotic protests.
日本浪江町——他的抗议或许是世界上最异想天开的抗议之一。
Angered by what he considers the Japanese government’s attempts to sweep away the inconvenient truths of the Fukushima nuclear disaster, Masami Yoshizawa has moved back to his ranch in the radioactive no-man’s land surrounding the devastated plant. He has no neighbors, but plenty of company: hundreds of abandoned cows he has vowed to protect from the government’s kill order.
由于不满日本政府将福岛核事故令人不安的真相全盘抹去的做法，长泽正见（Masami Yoshizawa，音译）回到了自己位于被摧毁的核电站附近的牧场，这里已经成了一个具有放射性的无人区。他没有邻居，但却有大量的同伴——被遗弃在这里的数百头牛。他发誓要阻止政府屠杀这些牛。
A large bulldozer — meant to keep out agricultural officials — stands at the entrance to the newly renamed Ranch of Hope like a silent sentinel, guarding a driveway lined with bleached cattle bones and handwritten protest signs.
一辆大型推土机——是为了不让农业官员进入——像一名沉默的哨兵停在最近重新命名为“希望牧场”(Ranch of Hope)的牧场入口，守护着门前的小道。小道旁是变白的牛骨和手写抗议标语。
“Let the Cows of Hope Live!” says one. Another, written on a yellow-painted cow skull, declares: “Nuclear Rebellion!” Inside the now overcrowded ranch, bellowing cows spill from the overflowing cattle sheds into the well-worn pasture, and even trample the yard of the warmly lit farmhouse.
“让‘希望之牛’活下去！”其中一条标语称。另一条写在一个涂成黄色的牛头骨上的标语称：“核反抗！”在如今已颇为拥挤的牧场内，正在发出低嚎的牛从拥挤的牛棚跑到了破旧不堪的牧场上，有些甚至还来到了亮着温暖灯光的农舍的庭院。
“These cows are living testimony to the human folly here in Fukushima,” said Mr. Yoshizawa, 59, a gruff but eloquent man with a history of protest against his government. “The government wants to kill them because it wants to erase what happened here, and lure Japan back to its pre-accident nuclear status quo. I am not going to let them.”
“这些牛是人类在福岛所干的蠢事的活生生的证据，”59岁的长泽正见说。这个声音粗哑但是表达清晰的人以前也曾对他的政府表示过抗议。“政府想杀掉这些牛，因为它想抹除这里曾经发生的事情，然后诱使日本回到核事故之前的状态。我不会让他们得逞的。”
Mr. Yoshizawa is no sentimentalist — before the disaster, he raised cows for slaughter. But he says there is a difference between killing cows for food and killing them because, in their contaminated state, they are no longer useful. He believes the cows on his ranch, abandoned by him and other fleeing farmers after the accident, are as much victims as the 83,000 humans forced to abandon their homes and live outside the evacuation zone for two and a half years.
长泽正见绝不是个多愁善感的人——在核事故发生前，他养牛的目的就是杀牛取肉。但他表示，以前杀牛是为了获取食物，现在杀牛则是因为牛受到了污染，不再有利用价值，这两者之间存在区别。他认为，牧场里被他和其他在事故发生后逃走的牧场主所遗弃的牛，与那些被迫抛弃家园，在核撤离区之外住了两年半的8.3万人一样，都是受害者。
He is worried about his health. A dosage meter near the ranch house reads the equivalent of about 1.5 times the government-set level for evacuation. But he is more fearful that the country will forget about the triple meltdowns at the plant as Japan’s economy shows signs of long-awaited recovery and Tokyo excitedly prepares for the 2020 Olympics — suggesting his protest is as least as much a political statement, as a humanitarian one.
他对自己的健康感到担心。牧场附近的一个放射量计的测量值大约为政府设定的撤离标准的1.5倍。但是他更担心，随着日本经济展现出人们等待已久的复苏迹象，东京也在积极筹备2020年奥运会，日本政府会把福岛核电站三座核反应堆熔毁的事给忘掉——这表明他的抗议既是一个政治声明，也是一个人道主义声明。
“If authorities say kill the cows,” he said, “then I resolved to do the opposite by saving them.”
“如果官方说杀掉这些牛，”他说，“我就下定决心要反着来，我要拯救它们。”
The cows at the Ranch of Hope are what is left of a once-thriving beef industry in the towns around the plant.
在核电站周围的城镇，牛肉行业曾经非常发达，但是如今，这里只剩下了希望牧场的牛。
Entire herds died of starvation in the weeks after the residents left. The cows that survived escaped their ranches to forage for food among the empty homes and streets, where they became traffic hazards for trucks shuttling workers and supplies to and from the stricken plant. Proclaiming the animals “walking accident debris,” officials from the Ministry of Agriculture ordered them to be rounded up and slaughtered, their bodies buried or burned along with other radioactive waste.
居民离开后的几周，这里有成群成群的牛死于饥饿。活下来的牛逃离原来的牧场，在空荡荡的屋子里和大街上四处寻找食物，对来往于灾区与外界之间运送工人和供给的卡车形成了交通障碍。农林水产省的官员称这些动物是“能够行走的事故残骸”，并下令人们把它们围起来杀掉，然后掩埋尸体或者与其他放射性垃圾一起焚烧。
Outraged, Mr. Yoshizawa began returning to his ranch soon after to feed the remnants of the herd he had been tending. He eventually decided to return full time to turn the ranch into a haven for all of the area’s abandoned cows. Of the approximately 360 cows at his 80-acre spread, more than half are ones that others left behind.
不久后，感到愤怒的长泽正见便会时不时回到牧场，喂养剩下的牛。最后，他决定搬回来，把牧场变成该区域所有被遗弃的牛的避难所。目前，这片80英亩（约合32.7公顷）的牧场上有大约360头牛，其中超过半数都是其他人留下来的。
Although he describes his protest in mainly political terms, his explanation for returning despite the possible danger is tinged with a hint of emotion. He describes his horror on visiting abandoned farms where he found rows of dead cows, their heads fallen into food troughs where they had waited to be fed. In one barn, a newborn calf hoarsely bawled next to its dead mother. He said his spur-of-the-moment decision to save the calf, which he named Ichigo, or Strawberry, was his inspiration for trying to save the others left behind.
虽然他说自己的抗议主要是政治性的，但他对自己不顾潜在危险回到这里的解释仍然带有一些情感色彩。他说，他在走访那些被遗弃的牧场时感到非常恐惧。他看到一排排死牛，它们的头栽在食槽里，也就是原来它们等待喂食的地方。在一个谷仓，一头刚出生的小牛在已经死去的母牛旁边嘶哑地嚎叫。他给这头小牛起名为草莓，正是拯救这头小牛的冲动，激发了他拯救其他被遗弃的牛的想法。
He still searches the evacuation zone for the often emaciated survivors, which he often has to pull by their ears to get them to follow him home. He tries to dodge police roadblocks; it is technically illegal for anyone to live inside the evacuation zone. Nonetheless, he has been caught a half-dozen times and forced to sign prewritten statements of apology for entering the zone. He has done so, but only after crossing out the promises not to do it again.
他依然在疏散区搜寻那些往往瘦骨嶙峋的幸存者。通常，他必须牵着它们的耳朵，才能让它们跟着自己回家。他尝试避开警方设立的路障；严格说来，任何人住在疏散区都属违法。然而，他被抓到过六次，并被迫因进入疏散区而在事先已写好的道歉信上签字。他按照要求做了，但每次都会打破下不为例的承诺。
Mr. Yoshizawa is no stranger to challenging authority, having protested against nuclear power before. But he says he felt particularly bitter after the Fukushima accident, which he fears could permanently ruin the ranch that he inherited from his father.
长泽正见对挑战权威并不陌生，他以前就抗议过核能。但他说，福岛核电站事故过后，他感到特别伤心，因为害怕那场事故会永久性地毁了他从父亲那里继承过来的牧场。
It does not help that his town, Namie, felt especially deceived by its leaders. After he heard the explosions at the plant, whose smokestacks and cranes are visible from his kitchen, he and many other townspeople ended up fleeing into the radioactive plume because the government did not disclose crucial information about the accident.
而更是火上浇油的是，浪江町的人尤其有一种被领导人欺骗的感觉。在听到核电站传来的爆炸声后，他和镇上的其他许多人最终一起逃进了放射性烟雾里，因为政府没有公布有关那次事故的关键信息。从他家厨房就能看到发电站的烟囱和起重机。
“I needed to find a new philosophy to keep on living,” said Mr. Yoshizawa, who is unmarried and lives alone on the ranch. “Then I realized, why is Japan being so meek in accepting what authorities are telling them? I decided to become the resistance.”
“我必须找到一种新的理念才能继续活下去，”未婚并独自一人住在牧场的长泽正见说，“后来，我意识到，为什么日本人这么听话，当局让干什么都愿意？于是我决定要变成反抗者。”
On a recent cold morning, Mr. Yoshizawa used a small bulldozer to carry bales of yellow rice stalks to feed the cows, about two to three times the number that he says his ranch can sustainably support. The cows, mostly a breed known as Japanese Black prized for its marbled wagyu-style beef, hungrily mooed as they jostled one another to get a mouthful.
在前不久一个寒冷的早上，长泽正见用一辆小型推土机拉着一捆捆黄色的稻草喂牛。他说，现在的牛的数量，大约是他的牧场能持续承受的数量的两到三倍。为了吃到一口稻草，饥肠辘辘的它们相互推挤着，嘴里发出哞哞的叫声。
Mr. Yoshizawa says one fear is running out of feed. With the oversized herd having already grazed his pastureland to stubble, he now relies on contributions of feed and money. Another worry is what living amid the contamination is doing to the cows, and to him.
长泽正见说，其中一个担心是饲料快用完了。鉴于规模过大的牛群已经把他的牧场吃得只剩植物根茬了，他现在靠别人捐赠的饲料和资金。另一个担忧是，在受到污染的环境下生活对牛群和他有什么影响。
A checkup soon after the accident showed high levels of radioactive cesium in his body, though he said the number had decreased over the last two years. He tries to keep his contamination as low as possible by using filtered water and buying food on trips out of the area.
事故发生后不久的体检结果显示，他体内的放射性铯含量很高，不过他说，在过去两年里，他体内的铯含量已有所下降。他试图尽可能降低自己受到的污染，采取的办法是使用过滤过的水，并到该区域之外的地方购买食物。
The cows, however, are constantly ingesting radioactive materials that remain in the soil and grass; since most of the donated feed he receives is from the region, it, too, is contaminated.
然而，牛群在不断地摄入土壤和草料中残留的放射性物质；因为他收到的别人捐赠的饲料也大多来自该地区，因此也受到了污染。
Ten of the cows have developed small white spots on their heads and flanks that he thinks are a result of exposure to radiation. Experts said they had never seen such spots before, but they said other causes were also possible, including a fungal infection from the overcrowding.
其中十头牛的头上和肚子上长出了白色的小斑点，他认为这是生活在放射性环境下的结果。专家称以前从未见过这种斑点，但他们表示，也有可能是其他原因，其中包括过度拥挤造成的真菌感染。
Mr. Yoshizawa has attracted a small following of supporters, but has his critics, too, who say he is keeping the animals alive in less than humane conditions in order to make a political point.
长泽正见赢得了一小群支持者，但批评他的也大有人在。那些批评人士称，他是为了表达政治观点而让牛生活在不人道的环境中。
“Looking at the over-concentration of animals, I personally don’t think this is very humanitarian,” said Manabu Fukumoto, a pathologist at the Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer at Tohoku University who studied the white spots.
“看看那些动物过度集中地挤在一起，我个人认为这样非常不人道，”研究了那些白斑的东北大学加龄医学研究所(Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer at Tohoku University)病理学家福本学(Manabu Fukumoto)说。
Mr. Yoshizawa notes wryly that the cows are living much longer than they would have if they had been led off to slaughter.
长泽正见挪揄道，如果一开始就被当做屠宰用牛来养，这些牛的寿命要比现在短得多。
For now, the local authorities have come up with a very Japanese solution to Mr. Yoshizawa’s defiance: turning a blind eye. Town officials in Namie deny knowledge of him or anyone else living inside the evacuation zone — despite the fact that they have restored electricity and telephone service to the ranch.
现在，地方政府对长泽正见的反抗采取了一种非常日本化的解决办法：视而不见。浪江町的官员称对他或是任何生活在疏散区里的人不知情，但事实是，他们已经恢复了牧场的供电和电话服务。
Mr. Yoshizawa does not make himself easy to ignore. He continues to appear in Japanese news media, maintains a blog with a live webcam of the ranch and holds occasional one-man protests in front of the headquarters of the plant’s operator, Tokyo Electric Power Co.
长泽正见不是那么容易无视的。他继续出现在日本的新闻媒体上，利用牧场上装的一个直播摄像头提供的内容打理着一个博客，时不时还会独自一人在福岛核电站的运营商东京电力公司(Tokyo Electric Power Co)的总部前举行抗议。
“Not all Japanese are passive,” Mr. Yoshizawa said. “My cows and I will show that there is still a chance for change.”
“并非所有日本人都逆来顺受，”长泽正见说，“我的牛和我会证明，依然有改变的可能。”