Pokémon Go, the wildly popular augmented-reality smartphone game expanded officially into 26 more countries this week, even as some security and religious authorities around the globe expressed alarm.
大受欢迎的增强现实智能手机游戏《精灵宝可梦Go》(Pokémon Go)本周正式扩展到另外26个国家。与此同时，世界各地不少地方的安全与宗教当局对它发出警告。
In Saudi Arabia, clerics renewed an existing fatwa against Pokémon, calling it “un-Islamic.”
在沙特阿拉伯，神职人员重申了目前对精灵的“法特瓦”，宣称它“不符合伊斯兰信条”。
Bosnia has warned players to avoid chasing the creatures onto land mines left over from the 1990s.
波斯尼亚警告玩家，要避免在抓精灵的过程中踩上90年代遗留下来的地雷。
An Egyptian communications official said the game should be banned because sharing photos or videos of security sites could put the sites at risk.
埃及电信部门的一名官员声称，应该禁止这款游戏，因为分享关于安全禁区的照片或视频会让这些地方面临风险。
Russian officials sounded similar warnings, saying that “the consequences would be irreversible” if Pokémon players continued unchecked.
俄罗斯官员发出了类似的警告，表示假如《精灵宝可梦Go》玩家继续不受约束，“造成的后果将不可逆转。”
The game is notable for causing people to range out into the world, walking into places where they might not normally have a reason to be, pointing their smartphone cameras at buildings and historical sites.
这款游戏出名的地方在于，驱使玩家探索外面的世界，走到他们平常或许不会去的地方，将智能手机的摄像头对准那里的建筑或古迹。
The game overlays a digital world of creatures, PokéStops and other features on the real world. Players capture the many types of Pokémon and then use them to battle on teams for control of locations known as gyms.
它将带有精灵、PokéStop和其他一些东西的数码世界叠加到现实世界之上。玩家需要抓住许多不同类型的精灵，然后利用它们组队对战，争夺对“道馆”的控制权。
“Pokémon can be found in every corner of the earth,” the app tells users when they download the game.
“精灵可能出现在世界的任何一个角落，”玩家下载这款游戏应用时会得到这样的提醒。
And that is precisely the problem.
问题恰恰就出在这里。
“Pokémon Go is the latest tool used by spy agencies in the Intel war, a cunning despicable app that tries to infiltrate our communities in the most innocent way under the pretext of entertainment,” said Hamdi Bakheet, a member of Egypt’s defense and national security committee in Parliament, according to a report on Al Jazeera.
据半岛电视台(Al Jazeera)报道，埃及议会国防与国家安全委员会成员哈姆迪·巴希特(Hamdi Bakheet)表示，“《精灵宝可梦Go》是间谍机构在情报战中利用的最新工具。这款卑鄙狡猾的应用试图在娱乐的外衣之下以最无辜的方式渗透到我们的社群里。”
Russian websites also published articles claiming the game is a C.I.A. plot, while religious figures denounced it.
俄罗斯的一些网站也发表文章称这款游戏是美国中央情报局(CIA)的阴谋，还有宗教人士出面对它进行了谴责。
“It smacks of Satanism,” a Cossack leader told local media. The Kremlin’s press secretary warned users not to visit the Kremlin looking for Pokémon, and there was talk of prison time for anyone found looking for them in a church.
“它带有撒旦的味道，”一名哥萨克领导人告诉当地媒体。克里姆林宫的新闻发言人警告游戏用户不要去克里姆林宫寻找精灵。还有人在讨论，对于在教堂里找精灵的用户，应该一律投进监狱。
Kuwait banned the app’s use at government sites, and officials warned it could put users’ personal data at risk or be used by criminals to lure victims to isolated places.
科威特禁止这款应用在政府区域使用。官方还警告，它可能危及用户的个人数据，或被犯罪分子用来引诱受害者到孤立无援的地方。
Indonesian officials also called it a national security threat that could allow its enemies to penetrate military sites and gain access to top-secret data. On Monday night, a French citizen working in Indonesia was temporarily detained after stumbling onto the grounds of a military base in West Java Province while searching, he said, for Pokémon figures.
印度尼西亚官方也称《精灵宝可梦Go》是对国家安全的威胁，或许会让敌人渗透到军事区域、获取最高机密数据。周一夜间，在印尼工作的一名法国公民不经意间进入了西爪哇省一处军事基地的范围，继而短暂被拘。此人表示他当时是在搜寻精灵。
Israeli officials warned soldiers not to use it on bases as it could reveal their location.
以色列官方警告，《精灵宝可梦》会暴露所在位置，军人不要在基地内玩。
South Korea’s government already restricts Google Maps for security reasons, so Pokémon Go — which uses the data to populate its own maps — wouldn’t work anyway. But the app happens to be working in one small seaside town near the North Korean border — and busloads of people are showing up to play.
韩国政府原本就以安全理由对谷歌地图(Google Maps)进行了限制，所以利用谷歌地图数据的《精灵宝可梦Go》无法使用。然而，在接近韩朝边界线的一座海滨小城，这款应用竟然可以玩，于是那里出现了玩家纷纷乘车前来的盛况。
The app uses geolocation features and enables the phone’s camera. Users typically sign in with a Google account. An early version appeared to give the game full access to some users’ Google accounts, but the company said that was a mistake that was reversed in an update.
《精灵宝可梦Go》要利用地理位置功能，并会用到手机的摄像头。用户往往需用谷歌账户登录。早前的一个版本似乎授予游戏全盘获取一些用户谷歌账户信息的权力，不过公司表示，这是失误，在更新版中得到了修正。
Since the game was released on July 6, it has gained millions of users around the world, including some who had already made headlines with questionable decisions to play at Auschwitz, Arlington cemetery and the 9/11 memorial in New York City.
自7月6日发布以来，这款游戏在全世界收获了成百上千万的用户。因为在奥斯维辛集中营、阿灵顿国家公墓和纽约9·11纪念馆这类并不适宜的地方抓精灵，一些人已经登上了新闻。
A spokeswoman for Niantic did not respond to allegations that the game is a tool of espionage, and said the company asks all users “to abide by local laws, and respect the locations you visit and people you meet during your exploration.”
Niantic公司的一位女发言人没有回应《精灵宝可梦Go》为间谍工具的指责，不过她称，公司请全体用户“谨遵当地法规，尊重在探索过程中拜访的地点和遇到的个人。”
Some leaders were also embracing the fad. President Reuven Rivlin of Israel posted a photo on Facebook of a Pokémon in his office with the caption “Somebody call security personnel.”
一些领导人也在追赶这股风潮。以色列总统鲁文·里夫林(Reuven Rivlin)在Facebook上贴了一张照片，其中显示他的办公室里有只精灵，配发的图片说明则是“来人啊，叫保安。”
The game is also being put to political purposes. Many users on Twitter shared what purports to be an image of a dead Pikachu amid rubble in Gaza.
这款游戏还被人用作政治目的。Twitter上有许多用户分享了一张图片，看起来是一只死去的皮卡丘躺在加沙的废墟之中。