WASHINGTON — Seven months ago, a respected former British spy named Christopher Steele won a contract to build a file on Donald J. Trump’s ties to Russia. Last week, the explosive details — unsubstantiated accounts of frolics with prostitutes, real estate deals intended as bribes and coordination with Russian intelligence of the hacking of Democrats — were summarized for Mr. Trump in an appendix to a top-secret intelligence report.
华盛顿——七个月前，声望卓著的前英国间谍名克里斯托弗·斯蒂尔(Christopher Steele)赢得了一份合同，开始制作一份关于唐纳德·J·特朗普(Donald J. Trump)与俄罗斯关系的文件。上周，该文件中爆炸性的细节被总结在一份最高机密情报档案的附录里，汇报到了特朗普那里。这些细节包括未经证实的与妓女们嬉闹的说法，以贿赂为目的的房地产交易，以及与俄罗斯情报机关合作攻击民主党的行为。
The consequences have been incalculable and will play out long past Inauguration Day. Word of the summary, which was also given to President Obama and congressional leaders, leaked to CNN Tuesday, and the rest of the media followed with sensational reports.
此事后果无法估量，影响将持续到就职典礼日之后很久。这份总结也提交给了奥巴马总统和国会领导人，但本周二被人泄露给了CNN，其他媒体也纷纷跟进，发布了耸人听闻的报道。
Mr. Trump denounced the unproven claims Wednesday as a fabrication, a Nazi-style smear concocted by “sick people.” It has further undermined his relationship with the intelligence agencies and cast a shadow over the new administration.
特朗普周三抨击这些未经证实的说法是捏造，是“令人作呕的人”进行的纳粹式诽谤。这进一步削弱了他与情报机构的关系，给新政府蒙上阴影。
Late Wednesday night, after speaking with Mr. Trump, James R. Clapper Jr., the director of national intelligence, issued a statement decrying leaks about the matter and saying of Mr. Steele’s dossier that the intelligence agencies have “not made any judgment that the information in this document is reliable.” Mr. Clapper suggested that intelligence officials had nonetheless shared it to give policy makers “the fullest possible picture of any matters that might affect national security.”
周三晚上，在与特朗普交谈后，美国国家情报总监小詹姆斯·R·克拉珀(James R. Clapper Jr.)发表了一个声明，谴责了泄露此事的行为，称情报机构对斯蒂尔的卷宗中的信息是否可靠“没有作出任何判断”。克拉珀表示，尽管如此，情报官员还是需要向政策制定者分享信息，让他们“尽可能全面地了解可能影响国家安全的任何事项”。
Parts of the story remain out of reach — most critically the basic question of how much, if anything, in the dossier is true. But it is possible to piece together a rough narrative of what led to the current crisis, including lingering questions about the ties binding Mr. Trump and his team to Russia. The episode also offers a glimpse of the hidden side of presidential campaigns, involving private sleuths-for-hire looking for the worst they can find about the next American leader.
这个故事里的有些问题仍然不清楚——最关键的问题是，卷宗中有多少内容是真的。但是，对导致当前危机的情况进行一个粗略的叙述还是有可能的，比如一直挥之不去的特朗普及其团队与俄罗斯之间关系的问题。而且这个插曲还提供了总统竞选活动中不为人知的一面——启用私人侦探去寻找下一任美国总统最糟糕的丑行。
The story began in September 2015, when a wealthy Republican donor who strongly opposed Mr. Trump put up the money to hire a Washington research firm run by former journalists, Fusion GPS, to compile a dossier about the real estate magnate’s past scandals and weaknesses, according to a person familiar with the effort. The person described the opposition research work on condition of anonymity, citing the volatile nature of the story and the likelihood of future legal disputes. The identity of the donor is unclear.
据一个了解内情的人表示，这件事始于2015年9月，一个强烈反对特朗普的富有的共和党捐助者投入资金，委托一家由前记者经营的华盛顿研究公司Fusion GPS编制一份关于这位房地产大亨过去丑闻和弱点的卷宗。此人不愿具名，因为事情怎么发展很难说，他担心以后惹上法律纠纷。那位捐赠者的身份也不清楚。
Fusion GPS, headed by a former Wall Street Journal journalist known for his dogged reporting, Glenn Simpson, most often works for business clients. But in presidential elections, the firm is sometimes hired by candidates, party organizations or donors to do political “oppo” work — shorthand for opposition research — on the side.
Fusion GPS的主管格林·辛普森(Glenn Simpson)曾是《华尔街日报》记者，擅长开展跟踪报道，主要受雇于商业客户。但是在总统选举中，候选人、政党组织或捐助者有时也会找到这家公司，请他们做政治的“oppo”工作，即对政敌进行调查研究。
It is routine work and ordinarily involves creating a big, searchable database of public information: past news reports, documents from lawsuits and other relevant data. For months, Fusion GPS gathered the documents and put together the files from Mr. Trump’s past in business and entertainment.
这属于日常工作，通常涉及创建一个可搜索的大型公共信息数据库：以前的新闻报道、诉讼文件和其他相关数据。在几个月的时间里，Fusion GPS收集了文档，把特朗普以前在商业界和娱乐界的文件整合到了一起。
After Mr. Trump emerged as the presumptive nominee in the spring, the Republican interest in financing the effort ended. But Democratic supporters of Hillary Clinton were very interested, and Fusion GPS kept doing the same deep dives, but on behalf of new clients.
去年春天，特朗普稳获提名之后，那位共和党人资助这项工作的兴趣也就消失了。但希拉里·克林顿(Hillary Clinton)的民主党支持者则变得兴趣浓厚，所以Fusion GPS继续深挖，只是客户不一样了。
In June, the tenor of the effort suddenly changed. The Washington Post reported that the Democratic National Committee had been hacked, apparently by Russian government agents, and a mysterious figure calling himself “Guccifer 2.0” began to publish the stolen documents online.
6月，这项工作的思路突然发生了转变。《华盛顿邮报》报道，民主党全国委员会遭到了黑客攻击，对方似乎是俄罗斯政府的特工，而一个自称“Guccifer2.0”的神秘人物开始在网上发布失窃的文件。
Mr. Simpson hired Mr. Steele, a former British intelligence officer with whom he had worked before. Mr. Steele, in his early 50s, had served undercover in Moscow in the early 1990s and later was the top expert on Russia at the London headquarters of Britain’s spy service, MI6. When he stepped down in 2009, he started his own commercial intelligence firm, Orbis Business Intelligence.
于是辛普森聘请了曾经共事过的前英国情报官员斯蒂尔。斯蒂尔50岁出头，20世纪90年代初曾在莫斯科当过特工，后来成为了英国军情六处伦敦总部的俄罗斯领域顶尖专家。他2009年离开那里，创办了自己的商业情报公司Orbis商业智能(Orbis Business Intelligence)。
The former journalist and the former spy, people who know them say, had similarly dark views of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, a former K.G.B. officer, and the varied tactics he and his intelligence operatives used to smear, blackmail or bribe their targets.
据熟悉这名前记者和这位前特工的人士透露，对于前克格勃特工、俄罗斯总统弗拉迪米尔·V·普京(Vladimir V. Putin)本人，以及他和他的情报人员过去用来诽谤、敲诈或贿赂其目标的各种手段，两人持有同样阴暗的看法。
As a former spy who had carried out espionage inside Russia, Mr. Steele was in no position to travel to Moscow to study Mr. Trump’s connections there. Instead, he hired native Russian speakers to call informants inside Russia and made surreptitious contact with his own connections in the country as well.
作为一名曾经在俄罗斯开展过间谍行动的前特工，斯蒂尔不能到莫斯特去调查特朗普在那里的关系。于是，他聘请以俄语为母语的人在俄罗斯给知情人士打电话，还暗中联系他自己在这个国家的熟人。
Mr. Steele wrote up his findings in a series of memos, each a few pages long, that he began to deliver to Fusion GPS in June and continued at least until December. By then, the election was over, and neither Mr. Steele nor Mr. Simpson was being paid by a client, but they did not stop what they believed to be very important work. (Mr. Simpson declined to comment for this article, and Mr. Steele did not immediately reply to a request for comment.)
斯蒂尔把自己的发现整理成了一系列篇幅均为几页长的备忘录，并从6月开始提交给Fusion GPS，一直持续到至少12月。那时，选举已经结束，没有客户给斯蒂尔和辛普森出钱。但他们并没有停下来，认为这是非常重要的工作。（辛普森拒绝为本文发表评论，斯蒂尔也没有立即回复置评请求。）
The memos described two different Russian operations. The first was a yearslong effort to find a way to influence Mr. Trump, perhaps because he had contacts with Russian oligarchs whom Mr. Putin wanted to keep track of. According to Mr. Steele’s memos, it used an array of familiar tactics: the gathering of “kompromat,” compromising material such as alleged tapes of Mr. Trump with prostitutes in a Moscow hotel, and proposals for business deals attractive to Mr. Trump.
备忘录提到了俄罗斯两次不同的行动。第一次行动持续了一年，意在找到办法影响特朗普，或许是因为他和普京希望跟踪的俄罗斯寡头有来往。斯蒂尔的备忘录显示，俄罗斯动用了一系列耳熟能详的策略：搜集不雅材料(kompromat)，即有损其名声的材料，如据称是特朗普和多名妓女在莫斯科一家酒店里的录像带，以及对特朗普有吸引力的商业交易提议。
The goal would probably never have been to make Mr. Trump a knowing agent of Russia, but to make him a source who might provide information to friendly Russian contacts. But if Mr. Putin and his agents wanted to entangle Mr. Trump using business deals, they were not very successful. Mr. Trump has said he has no major properties there, though one of his sons said at a real estate conference in 2008 that “a lot of money” was “pouring in from Russia.”
这项行动的目的可能不是让特朗普成为一名知情的特工，为俄罗斯效力，而是让他成为一个可能会向友好的俄罗斯联系人提供信息的消息来源。但如果普京和他的特工想通过商业交易拉特朗普下水，他们并不是非常成功。特朗普自称在俄罗斯没有重要房产，不过他的一个儿子曾在2008年的一个房地产会议上表示，“大量资金”正在“从俄罗斯涌入”。
The second Russian operation described was recent: a series of contacts with Mr. Trump’s representatives during the campaign, in part to discuss the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta. According to Mr. Steele’s sources, it involved, among other things, a late-summer meeting in Prague between Michael Cohen, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, and Oleg Solodukhin, a Russian official who works for Rossotrudnichestvo, an organization that promotes Russia’s interests abroad.
备忘录中，俄罗斯的第二次行动发生在前不久：竞选期间俄罗斯同特朗普的代表进行了一系列的接触，在一定程度上是为了讨论对民主党全国委员会(Democratic National Committee)和克林顿的竞选主席约翰·D·波德斯塔(John D. Podesta)发起黑客袭击。据斯蒂尔的消息来源称，该行动涉及特朗普的律师迈克尔·科恩(Michael Cohen)和俄罗斯官员奥列格·索洛杜欣(Oleg Solodukhin)夏末在布拉格的会面等。索洛杜欣供职于俄罗斯文化中心(Rossotrudnichestvo)，该机构负责促进俄罗斯在国外的利益。
By all accounts, Mr. Steele has an excellent reputation with American and British intelligence colleagues and had done work for the F.B.I. on the investigation of bribery at FIFA, soccer’s global governing body. Colleagues say he was aware of the danger he and his associates were being fed Russian disinformation. Russian intelligence had mounted a complex hacking operation to damage Mrs. Clinton, and a similar operation against Mr. Trump was possible.
据各方面所说，斯蒂尔在美国和英国情报同僚中声誉良好，并曾为联邦调查局(FBI)效力，调查全球足球管理机构国际足球联合会(FIFA)的贿赂案。同事称他知道自己和合作伙伴从俄罗斯那里得到虚假信息的危险。为了伤害克林顿，俄罗斯情报机构发起了一场复杂的入侵行动，而对特朗普发起一场类似的行动也是有可能的。
But much of what he was told, and passed on to Fusion GPS, was very difficult to check. And some of the claims that can be checked seem problematic. Mr. Cohen, for instance, said on Twitter on Tuesday night that he has never been in Prague; Mr. Solodukhin, his purported Russian contact, denied in a telephone interview that he had ever met Mr. Cohen or anyone associated with Mr. Trump. The president-elect on Wednesday cited news reports that a different Michael Cohen with no Trump ties may have visited Prague and that the two Cohens might have been mixed up in Mr. Steele’s reports.
但他听到并交给Fusion GPS的大量信息很难查证。部分可查证的说法似乎有问题。比如，科恩周二晚上在Twitter上说自己从来没去过布拉格，索洛杜欣据传为科恩的俄方联络人，他也在接受电话采访时否认自己见过科恩或与特朗普有关的任何人。周三，候任总统特朗普提到了一些新闻报道。相关报道称，另一个和特朗普无关的迈克尔·科恩可能去了布拉格，斯蒂尔可能在报告中把两个科恩弄混了。
But word of a dossier had begun to spread through political circles. Rick Wilson, a Republican political operative who was working for a super PAC supporting Marco Rubio, said he heard about it in July, when an investigative reporter for a major news network called him to ask what he knew.
但在这之前，关于这份档案的消息就已经开始传遍政界了。曾为一个支持马尔科·鲁比奥(Marco Rubio)的超级政治行动委员会(PAC)工作的共和党政治工作人员里克·威尔逊(Rick Wilson)说，他7月就听说此事了。当时，一家大型新闻网络的调查记者打电话给他，问他知道些什么。
By early fall, some of Mr. Steele’s memos had been given to the F.B.I., which was already investigating Mr. Trump’s Russian ties, and to journalists. An MI6 official, whose job does not permit him to be quoted by name, said that in late summer or early fall, Mr. Steele also passed the reports he had prepared on Mr. Trump and Russia to British intelligence. Mr. Steele was concerned about what he was hearing about Mr. Trump, and he thought that the information should not be solely in the hands of people looking to win a political contest.
到了初秋，斯蒂尔的部分备忘录被交给了联邦调查局和记者，当时联邦调查局已经在调查特朗普与俄罗斯的关系。军情六处一名因工作原因不能透露姓名的官员称，在夏末或初秋时，斯蒂尔将自己准备的有关特朗普和俄罗斯的报告也交给了英国情报机构。斯蒂尔对自己听到的有关特朗普的消息感到不安，认为这些信息不应只掌握在期望赢得一场政治较量的人手里。
“It is a remarkable moment in history,” said Mr. Wilson, the Florida political operative. “What world did I wake up in?”
“这是历史上的非常时刻，”佛罗里达州的政治工作人员威尔逊说。“我是在一个什么样的世界里醒来的？”