If you consider yourself to be a born morning person or an inveterate night owl, there is new research that supports your desire to wake up early or stay up late. Each of us has a personal “chronotype,” or unique circadian rhythm, says Till Roenneberg, a professor of chronobiology at Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich and one of the world’s experts on sleep. In broad strokes, these chronotypes are usually characterized as early, intermediate or late, corresponding to people who voluntarily go to bed and wake early, at a moderate hour or vampirishly late. If you are forced to wake up earlier than your body naturally would, you suffer from what Roenneberg calls “social jet lag.”
你是不是觉得自己是个与生俱来的“早起的鸟儿”，或者认为自己是根深蒂固的夜猫子？这里有一项新研究，它提供了一些科学支持，表明无论你愿意早起还是熬夜都不无道理。慕尼黑大学(Ludwig Maximilian University)的时间生物学教授、国际知名睡眠专家蒂尔·伦内伯格(Till Roenneberg)介绍说，我们每个人都有自己的“时型”(chronotype)，即独特的昼夜节律。笼统而言，通常可将时型分为早、中和晚三个类型，分别对应于自愿早睡早起者、睡眠和起床时间适中的人以及像吸血鬼一般昼伏夜出的通宵党。如果你被迫在自然醒之前起床，你的身体就会有种不适的感觉，伦内伯格称之为“社会时差”。
People with an early chronotype may do well with a 7 a.m. workday rising time, but others do not. Sleeping out of sync with your innate preferences can be detrimental to your health, especially for late chronotypes, who tend to be the most at odds with typical work schedules. A study conducted by the National Institutes of Health and published in March in PLOS ONE found that obese adults with late chronotypes tended to eat larger meals, develop more sleep apnea and have higher levels of stress hormones and lower levels of HDL, or “good,” cholesterol than obese people with other chronotypes.
时型为早型的人可能觉得在工作日的早晨7点起床是小菜一碟，但对于其他人恐怕就并非如此了。如果你的睡眠时间无法与你天生固有的偏好同步，很可能会损害你的健康，对于那些时型为晚型的人来说尤其如此，因为他们的内在生物钟与典型的工作作息时间表差异最大。今年3月，在《公共科学图书馆：综合》(PLOS ONE)上发表了一项由美国国立卫生研究院(National Institutes of Health)进行的研究。该研究发现，与其他时型的肥胖者相比，时型为晚型的肥胖成年人往往食量较大，睡眠呼吸暂停发病率较高，应激激素水平较高，且高密度脂蛋白（HDL，即“好”胆固醇）水平较低。
Their chronotype may also have contributed to weight gain in the first place, Roenneberg says. Research has shown that a single hour of social jet lag, the mismatch between your chronotype and your schedule, increases your risk for obesity by about 33 percent. In a study published in June in Chronobiology International, late-night chronotypes gained more weight during their freshman years at college than other new students did, even though college is one of the best fits for night owls.
伦内伯格说，他们一开始的体重增加可能也与时型有关。研究表明，一小时的社会时差（即时型与作息时间表间的差距）就可将肥胖风险增加约33%。今年6月发表在《国际时间生物学》 (Chronobiology International)上的一项研究发现，尽管大学已经算是最适合夜猫子生存的场所之一了，但时型为深夜型的新生在大一一年里的体重增幅仍然大于其他新生。
The brain can also be affected. Another study in Chronobiology found that “individuals having a preference for evening hours to carry out their daily activities are prone to depression,” more than earlier chronotypes are. In an August study in NeuroImage, scientists in Germany scanned the brains of young men and found that white matter, which carries and amplifies signals between neurons, was less cohesive in certain parts of the brain in late chronotypes than in the other volunteers. This could make the brains of late chronotypes a little “less efficient,” says Jessica Rosenberg, a researcher at the Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine in Jülich, Germany, and an author of the study, although, she points out, it’s impossible to tell whether the lack of sleep caused the brain changes or vice versa.
大脑也会受到影响。《国际时间生物学》上的另一项研究发现，与时型为早型的人相比，“偏爱在夜间从事日常活动的人更容易患抑郁症”。在8月发表于《神经影像》 (NeuroImage)杂志上的研究中，德国科学家扫描了年轻男性的大脑，并发现在时型为晚型的志愿者大脑的特定部位中，白质（负责传送和放大神经元间的信号）的结合力低于其他志愿者。该研究的作者之一、德国于利希神经科学和医学研究所(Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine)的研究员杰茜卡·罗森堡(Jessica Rosenberg)说，这可能造成时型为晚型的人大脑“效率略低”，但是她也指出，目前尚无法区分是缺乏睡眠导致了大脑的变化，还是反之。
Almost every cell in our bodies is likely to reflect our chronotype. In a study in May in Chronobiology, scientists typed volunteers using a questionnaire, then examined cells from their inner cheeks and found that late chronotypes tended to have activity in genes that contribute to later sleep onset, offering further evidence that the urge to stay up late or to rise early is not a lifestyle choice but resides in our DNA.
我们体内的几乎每一个细胞都可以反映出我们的时型。 在《国际时间生物学》5月刊上的一项研究中，科学家使用问卷对志愿者们进行了分类，然后检查了他们的口腔内壁细胞。他们发现，在时型为晚型的志愿者中，与晚睡有关的基因往往具有活性，从而提供了进一步的证据，表明熬夜或早起的倾向并不是人们选择的生活方式，它在我们的DNA中早已注定。
Few people have the luxury of organizing their lives by their chronotypes. If you can’t convince your boss that your body clock requires a later start, consider “getting outside more,” Roenneberg says. Infusions of sunlight nudge most chronotypes toward an earlier sleep time. More immediately, look forward to Nov. 3, the end of daylight saving time. The summertime clock typically disrupts sleep for all chronotypes, he says. “Everybody sleeps better when it ends.”Want to know your personal chronotype? Complete the Munich Chronotype Questionnaire developed by Dr. Roenneberg and his colleagues.
可以根据自己的时型来安排生活是一种相当奢侈的权利，很少有人能享受到。伦内伯格说，如果你无法让老板相信你的身体时钟“醒得比较晚”，那么，你可以考虑“多去户外活动”。阳光的照耀可以将大多数时型向早睡型调整。而更直接的方法是，期待11月3日夏令时结束。夏令时通常会扰乱所有时型者的睡眠，他说。“当它结束后，每个人都睡得更好。”想知道你自己的时型么？请完成由伦内伯格博士及他的同事设计的慕尼黑时型问卷调查。